This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 
to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 
to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 
are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  marginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 
publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  have  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 

We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  from  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attribution  The  Google  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liability  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.  Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 


at|http  :  //books  .  google  .  com/ 


HARVARD 

COLLEGE 
LIBRARY 


r 


TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 


Lje'<^4^.  11.^ 


HARVARD  C0UC9C  UfiHA^V 

BCQUC8T  aP 

VMNWAIO  J^RtMJQTt 

lANUAIIY  17,  Ilia 


OOPrRIGHT,  1911, 

.Harriott  Ely  Fansler. 


PREFACE 

Inspiration  for  any  craftsman  lies  in  the  history  dt 
his  art  and  in  a  definite  problem  at  hand.  He  feels  his 
task  dignified  when  he  knows  what  has  been  done  before 
him,  and  he  has  a  starting  point  when  he  can  enumerate 
the  essentials  of.  what  he  wants  to  produce.  He  then 
goes  to  his  work  with  a  zest  that  is  in  itself  creative. 
There  is  a  popular  misconception,  especially  in  the 
minds  of  young  people  and  seemingly  in  the  minds  o^ 
many  teachers  and  critics  of  literature,  that  geniuses, 
have  sprung  full-worded  from  the  brain  of  Jove  and 
have  worked  without  antecedents.  There  could  not  be 
to  a  writer  a  more  cramping  idea'  than  that.  It  is  the 
aim  of  the  present  volume  to  help  dispel  that  illusion, 
and  to  set  in  A  convenient  form  before  students  of  nar- 
rative the  twofold  inspiration  mentioned — a  feeling  for 
the  past  and  a  series  of  definite  problems. 

There  has  been  no  attempt  at  minuteness  in  tracing 
the  type  developments;  though  tKere  has  been  the  con- 
stant ideal  of  exactness  and  trustworthiness  wherever 
developments  are  suggested.  In  other  words,  this  book 
is  not  a  scrutiny  of  origins,  but  a  setting  forth  of 
essentials  in  kinds  of  narratives  already  clearly  estab- 
lished. The  aijialysis  that  gives  the  essentials  has,  of 
course,  the  personal  element  in  it,  as  all  such  analyses' 
must  have ;  but  the  work  is  the  work  of  one  mind  and  is 
at  least  consistent.  Since  I  have  not  had  the  benefit  of 
other  texts  on  the  subject  (for  there  are  none  that  I 

v 


VI 


PREFACE 


know  of)  and  since  the  inquiry  into  narrative  types 
with  composition  in  view  is  thus  made,  put  together  with 
illustrations,  and  published  for  the  first  time,  it  has  been 
my  especial  aim  to  exclude  everything  dogmatic.  As 
can  readily  be  seen,  the  details  have  been  worked  out  in 
the  actual  classroom.  The  safe  thing  about  the  use  of 
such  a  text  by  other  instructors  is  the  fact  that  they  and 
their  pupils  can  test  the  truth  of  the  generalizations  by 
first-hand  inquiry  of  their  own. 

The  examples  chosen  from  literature  and  here  printed 
are  specific  as  well  as  typical.  They  have  been  selected 
not  only  to  illustrate  general  principles,  but  for  other 
reasons  as  well — some  for  superior  intrinsic  worth ;  some 
for  historical  position ;  all  because  of  possible  inspiration. 
But  none  have  been  selected  as  models. 

The  themes  written  by  my  present  and  former  pupils 
are  added  for  the  last  reason — as  sure  reinforcement  of 
the  inspiration,  as  provokers  to  action.  Qften  students 
fail  to  write  because  there  is  held  up  to  them  a  model, 
something  complicated  and  perfect  in  detail.  They  feel 
their  apprenticeship  keenly  and  hesitate  to  attempt  a 
likeness  to  a  masterpiece.  But,  on  the  other  hand,  when 
they  get  a  glimpse  of  history  and  when  they  see  the  work 
of  a  fellow  tyro,  they  know  that  an  equally  good  or  even 
better  result  is  within  their  reach  and  so  set  to  work  at 
once.  The  productions  of  pupils  under  this  historical- 
illustrative  method,  wherever  it  has  been  tried,  have  been 
encouraging.  Seldom  has  any  one  failed  to  present  an 
acceptable  piece  of  work.  Once  in  a  while  a  ''mistake" 
has  been  made  that  has  reassured  a  teacher  and  a  class 

the  accuracy  of  the  contamination  theory — ^the  his- 
al  cross-grafting  or  counter  influence  of  types;  that 


PREFACE  vii 

is,  sometimes  in  the  endeavor  to  produce  a  theme  that 
should  vary  from  those  he  thought  the  other  students 
would  write,  an  earnest  worker  has  unconsciously  pro- 
duced an  example  of  the  next  succeeding  type  to  he 
studied;  unconsciously,  because  hitherto,  of  course,  the 
classes  have  gone  forward  without  a  printed  text. 

This  statement  leads  to  the  question,  Why  publish  the 
literary  examples  ?  Why  not  merely  give  the  references  ? 
Because  school  and  even  town  libraries  are  limited. 
Twenty-five  card-holders  can  scarcely  get  the  same 
volume  within  the  same  week.  Besides,  the  plan  I  con- 
sider good  to  insure  the  pupil's  thorough  acquaintance 
with  the  library  accessible  to  him  and  with  library 
methods  and  possibilities  is  quite  other  than  this.  This 
book  is  meant  as  a  work-table  guide  for  the  student  and 
as  a  time-saver  for  the  teacher ;  hence  all  the  necessary 
material  should  be  immediately  at  hand.  The  in- 
structor's concern  in  the  teaching  of  narrative  writing 
is  just  the  twofold  one  mentioned  before — ^to  orientate 
the  young  scribbler  and  to  give  him  a  quick  and  sure 
inspiration.  After  that  he  is  to.be  left  alone  to  write, 
and  the  fewer  the  books  around  him  the  better. 

The  bibliography  is  added  for  two  other  classes  of 
persons:  those  who  desire  to  make  a  somewhat  further 
and  more  minute  study  of  type  developments,  and  those 
who  wish  merely  to  read  extensively  or  selectively  in 
the  works  of'  fiction  and  history  themselves.  The  list  of 
books  and  authors  is  intended  simply  to  be  helpful,  not 
exhaustive,  and  consequently  contains,  with  but  few  ex- 
ceptions, only  those  works  that  one  might  reasonably 
expect  to  find  in  a  well-stocked  college  or  city  library. 

I  confess  I  hope  that. some  amateur  writer  out  o^ 


Viii  PREFACE 

college  or  high  school  may  chance  upon  the  book  and  be 
encouraged  by  it  to  persevere.  There  are  many  delight- 
ful hours  possible  for  one  who  enjoys  composition,  if 
he  can  but  get  a  bit  of  a  lift  here  and  there  or  a  new 
impulse  to  an  occasionally  flagging  imagination.  All 
but  the  very  earliest  literature  has  been  produced  thus — 
namely,  by  a  conscious  writing  to  a  lype,  with  an  idea 
either  of  direct  imitation,  as  in  the  case  of  Chaucer,  who 
gloried  in  his  *' authorities;"  or  of  variation  and  com- 
bination^  as  in  the  case  of  Walpole;  or  of  equaling  or 
surpassing  in  excellence,  as  in  the  case  of  James  P^eni- 
more  Cooper;  or  of  satire  and  supersedence,  as  in  the 
case  of  Cervantes. 

But  to  go  back  to  the  student  themes  here  presented. 
They  were  written,  with  the  exception  of  two,  for 
regular  class  credit.  These  two  were  printed  in  a  col- 
lege paper  as  sophomore  work.  A  number  of  the 
remaining  came  out  in  school  publications  after  serv- 
ing in  the  English  theme  box.  All  in  all,  they  are 
the  productions  of  actual  students;  from  whom,  it  is 
hoped,  other  young  writers  may  get  some  help  and  a 
good  deal  of  entertainment.  In  each  case  the  name  of 
the  author  is  affixed  to  his  narrative,  since  he  aloiie  is 
responsible  for  the  merits  and  faults  of  the  piece. 

In  regard  to  the  Filipino  pupils  no  word  is  necessary: 
they  speak  for  themselves.  The  work  here  given  as 
theirs  is  theirs.  I  haVe  not  treiated  it  in  any  way  dif- 
ferent from  the  way  I  treat  all  school  themes,  American 
or  other.  It  is  everyday  work— criticized  by  the  in- 
structor, corrected  by  the  pupil,  and  returned  to  the 
English  office.  The  examples  could  be  replaced  from 
present  stock  to  the  extent  literally  of  some  ten, 


PREFACE  XX 

some  twenty,  some  two  hundred  fold.  Naturally,  of 
course,  as  is  true  of  all  persons  using  a  foreign  language, 
the  Filipinos  mistake  idiom  more  often  than  anything 
else,  and  they  write  more  fluently  than  they  talk;  but 
there  is  among  them  no  dearth  of  material  and  no  lack 
of  thought.  Indeed,  the  publishers  have  been  em- 
barrdssed  by  the  supply  of  interesting  stories,  especially 
in  the  earlier  types.  The  temptation  has  been  to  add 
beyond  the  limits  of  the  merely  helpful  apd  illustrative 
and  to  paiss  into  the  realm  of  the  eurious  and  entertain-  ^ 
ing.  Regardless  of  literary  quality,  Filipino  themes' 
have  today  an  historic  value;  many  of  them  are  the 
first  written  form  of  hitherto  only  oral  tradition. 

To  say  to  how  great  an  extent  a  writer  and  talker 
is  indebted  to  his  everyday  working  library  is  difficult. 
Like  a  sculptor  to  an  excellent  quarry,  a  teacher  can 
indeed  forget  to  give  credit  where  credit  is  due,  p  , 
especially  to  the  more  general  books  of  reference  sueh  as  *  v^ 
encyclopedias  and  histories  of  literature — Saintsbury,  /    ^  ' 


Chambers,  Ticknor,  Jusserand.     I  would  speak  of  the        f 
* '  Standard  Dictionary, ' '  that  does  all  my  spelling  for  me 
.■amLnot  a  little,  of  my  defining ;  and  the  ' '  ^cyclopedia 
Britannica,*'  which  in  these  days  of  special  treatises  is 
sometimes  superciliously  passed  over,  though  it  offiers  in 
its  pages  not  only  much  valuable  literary  inforaiation, 
but  some  of  that  information  in  th6  form  of  very  valu 
able  literature.    Next  to  these  might  be  placed  Dunlop 
*' History  of  Fiction;''  and  last,  particular,  and  occa 
»ional  Qompilations  like  Brewer's  and  Blumentritt's,  and  o  ^ 
criticism  like  Murray's,  Keightley's  and  Newbigging'sr,.-;^ 
Th^n  there  is  the  ** World's  Great  Classics  Series."  Just  1    -; 
how  much  I  owe  to  those  generg,!  texts  I  cannot  perhaps  ^:  - 

MS.  NOTK 


u-  Is 


tell  definitely;  though  I  am  not  conscious  of  borrowing 
where  I  have  not  given  full  credit.  As  I  have  said 
before,  direct  treatises  on  my  subject  are  lacking;  so  I 
shall  have  to  bear  alone  the  brunt  of  criticism  on  the 
analysis,  or  the  main  body  of  the  book.  I  know  of  no 
one  else  to  blame. 

Grateful  acknowledgment  is  due  to  my  husband. 
Dean  Spruill  Fansler,  for  long-suffering  kindness  in 
answering  appeals  to  his  opinion  and  for  reading  the 
manuscript,  compiling  the  bibliography,  and  making  the 
index.  Without  his  generous  help  I  should  hardly  have 
found  time  or  courage  to  put  the  chapters  together. 

In  justice  to  former  assistant  English  instructors  in 
the  United  States  who  have  successfully  followed  earlier 
unpublished  outlines,  and  to  my  colleagues  in  the  Uni- 
versity of  the  Philippines  who  have  been  teaching  from 
the  book  in  manuscript  form  for  nine  months,  it  ought 
to  be  said  that,  whatever  faults  the  work  may  have — 
and  I  fear  they  are  all  too  many — ^it  can  hardly  be  dis- 
missed as  an  immature  and  xintried  theory. 

If  there  should  be  found  any  merit  in  the  content  of 
the  book  in  general,  I  should  like  to  have  that  ascribed 
to  the  influence  of  the  department  of  English  and  Com- 
parative Literature  of  Columbia  University,  where  I 
had  the  privilege  of  graduate  study  with  such  scholars 
as  Ashley  Horace  Thorndike,  William  Peterfield  Trent 
and  Jefferson  Butler  Fletcher. 

My  chief  material  debt  is  to  the  publishing  firms 
who  have  very  courteously  permitted  the  reprinting  of 
narratives  selected  from  their  copyrighted  editions. 

H.  E.  P. 

University  of  the  Philippines,  Manila,  1911. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 

List  of  Stoeies jkv-xt 

Introduction xxi-xxvi 

Part  I.     Narratives  of  Imaginary  Events 

Chapter  I.    The  Primitive-Religious  Group 1-82 

I.  Myth — Classes  of  myths:  primitive-tribal  and  artifi- 
cial-literary— ^Myth  age  not  a  past  epoch — ^How  tradi- 
tional myths  are  collected — How  original  myths  are  com- 
posed— ^Difference  between  myth  and  allegory,  and  myth 
and  legend — ^Working  definition — List  of  mythological* 
deities:  Greek,  Roman,  Egyptian,  Hindu,  Russian,  Fin- 
nish, Norse,  Filipino — Examples 1 

IL  Leg£NI> — ^Myth  and  legend  compared — Saga — Saint 
legends — Geoffrey  of  Monmouth — ^Legendary  romance — 
Modern  literary  legends — How  to  select  and  record  a 
legend  of  growth — How  to  write  a  legend  of  art — Work- 
ing definition — Examples. 22 

IIL  Fairy  Tale — Attitude  toward  fairy  stories — Funda- 
mental characteristics  of  fairies — Northern  fairies  and 
their  attributes — Some  literary  fairy  tales — How  to  pro- 
ceed to  write  a  fairy  tale — Summary  definition — Partial 
lists  of  fairies  of  different  countries:  Northern,  Irish 
and  Scotch,  Filipino,  Russian,  Arabian,  and  Miscellaneous 
— Examples 43 

IV.  Nursery  Saga  —  Origin  —  The  brothers  Grimm — 
English  nursery  sagas — Distinguishing  elements:  kind  of 
hero,  rhymes,  repetition  of  situation,  supernatural  element 
— A  few  specific  suggestions — Working  definition — Ex- 
amples      65 

Chapter  IL    Symbouc-Didactic  Group *... 83-127 

I.  Fable — iBsop— Other  early  fabulists — ^^  *  Hitopadesa  " 
and  '*Panchatantra"— ''Reynard  the  FV)x'*  and  best- 
iaries— Some  more  writers  of  fables — Working  definition 
— Classes  of  fables:  rational,  non-rational,  mixed — How 
to  write  an  original  fable — ^Maxims  upon  which  fables 
may  be  built — Examples 83 

xi 


Xii  TABLE  OP  CONTENTS 

II.  Pasable — ^IHstiiigiiishixig  ebaraeteristifs  —  Tolstoy — 
— Suggestions  on  writing  a  parable — ^Working  definition 
— A  list  of  proverbs  that  might  be  expanded  into  para- 
bles— Examples 101 

m.  Allegory  —  Characteristies  —  Plato's  "Vision  of 
Er '  * — Modem  allegories — Some  famous  English  allegories 
— Allegory  fable,  and  parable  differentiated — ^Working 
definition — How  to  write  an  all^^ory — ^Present-day  inter- 
est  in  primitive  types — ^Examples *....,..   112 

Chaptsb  til    Ingenious-Astonishing  Gioup 128-254 

I.  Tale  or  Mere  Wonder  —  Defimtioii — CoDeetioiis  of 
wonder  stories,  ancient  and  modem — Soggestions  fixr 
writing — Characteristic  elements — Mediieval  tales  of  chiv- 
alry*—Heroic  romances — Examples 128 

TT.  Tmagixary  Voyage  with  a  Satiric  or  Instructive 
Purpose — Distinguishing  elements — Source  of  the  type — 
Famous  imaginary  voyages— Suggestions  on  how  to  write 
a  satiric  imaginary  voyage — E^^mples 150 

TIT.  Tale  of  Scientific  Discovery  and  op  Mechanical 
Invention — Relation  to  imaginary  voyages — Essential 
elements — Kind  of  stories  included  in  this  type — Sugges- 
tions on  how  to  write  the  type — ^Examples 194 

TV.  The  Detective  Story  and  Other  Tales  of  Pure 
Plot — The  detective  story:  connection  with  stories  of 
ingenuity — ^Poe  and  Doyle — ^^Other  stories  of  plot — 
Romance — A  few  suggestions — Examples 225 

Chapter  TV.    The  Entertaining  Group , 255-344 

T.  Tale  op  Probable  Adventure— Characteristies  and 
definition — How  to  write  a  probable  adventure — A  warn- 
ing— Examples i , . . . .  255 

II.  The  Society  Story — ^Definition — ^Pastoral    Romance 

— Suggestions  on  writing  a  society  story — Examples. ....  277 

III.  The  Humorous  Story -^  Definition  —  Pableanx-— 
Picaresque  romance — ^Difference  between  a  humorous  Btory 
and  a  comic  anecdote — Examples. , 299 

IV.  The  Occasional  Story — The.  spirit  of  the  occa- 
sional story — Its  masters — Suggestions  for  subjects — 
Examples 313 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS  xiii 

Chapter  V.    The  Instructive  Group 345-394 

I.  The  Moral  Story — Differentiatecl  from  the  symbolic- 
didactic  group — Great  authors  who  have  written  this  type : 
Hawthorne,  Johnson,  Voltaire,  Tolstoy,  Cervantes — ^What 

to  put  in  and  what  to  leave  out — Examples. 345 

II.  The  Pedagogical  Narrative  —  Definition  —  Some 
famous  pedagogical  books—Froebel — ^Examples 361 

III.  The  Story  or  Present  Day  Realism  —  What 
realism  is — The  realistic  school — Suggestions  on  charac- 
ters to  treat — Examples. 370 

Chapter  VI.    The  Artistic  Group:  the  Real  Short-zStory 

395-478 

I.  The     Psychological     Weird     Tale  —  Origin  —  Thfe' 
School  of  Terror — Poe,  Stevenson,  Maupassant,  and  others 
— Snggefitions   on   writisig   a   weird   tale — Material   and  * 
method — ^Form — Examples 398 

.  II.  Story  That  Emphasizes  Character  and  Environ- 
ment— Kipling — ^Mary  E.  Wilkins  Freeman — Hamlin 
Garland — ^Bret  Harte — ^Suggestions  and  precautions — The 
"Character'':  Overbury  and  Hall — Novel  of  Manners — 
TroUope's  Cathedral  Town  Studies — Examples 426 

IIL  Story  That  Emphasizes  Character  and  Events 
— ^Difference  between  character-place  story  and  character- 
events  story — Component  elements  of  this  type — A  scrap- 
book  suggestion — Other  suggestions — Examples 455 

Part  II.     NarratiTes  of  Actual  Events 

Chapter  VII.    Particular  Accounts 479-556 

I.  Incident — Definition — How  to  tell  an  incident — Ex- 
amples     480 

II.  Anecdote — Meaning  of  the  term — Ana — Collection  of 
anecdotes — How  to  write  an  original  anecdote — Examples  490 

III.  Eye- Witness  Account  ^— What  it  is  and  how  to 
write  it — An  ancient  eye-witness  account — Literary  eye- 
witness accounts — Examples 499 

IV.  Tale  of   Actual  Adventure  —  The   one  necessary 

element — ^Suggestions  for  writing — Examples 512 

y.  The  Traveler's  Sketch— What  a  traveler's  sketch 
includes—Great  travel  books — Fielding's  gentle  warning 

— A  motto  for  the  narrator — Examples. 530 


liv  TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 

Chapter  VIII.    Personal  Accounts 557-611 

I.  Journal    and    Diary — The    two    distinguished^ — The 
,  range  of  journals — *'Vida  del  Gran  Tamurlan" — Great 

diaries — How  to  write  journal  and  diary — Examples^  . . ,   557 

II.  Autobiography  and  Memoirs  —  Distinction — Cellini, 
Franklin,  and  others — Selection  and  coherence — Examples  572 

III.  Biography  —  Beginning  in  England  of  literary 
biography— rGreat  biographies  in  English — ^Writer  ■  and 
subject — ^Beginning,  emphasis,  and  attitude — Outline  for 

a  life — Examples 590 

Chapter  IX.    Impersonal  Accounts 612-645 

I.  Annals  —  What  annals  are  —  Famous  old  annals — 
Stow — Si^gestions  on  material — Examples .  613 

II.  Chronicles — Definition —- Froissart,  Ayala;  ^'General 
Chronicle  of  Spain'' — Saxo  Grammaticus — Molinshed — 
True  relations — Examples 626 

Bibliography 647-660 

Index , 661-672 


LIST  OF   STORIES 

NARRATIVES  OF  FICTITIOUS. EVENTS 

Myths 

PAGi: 
The  World's  Creation  and  the  Birth 

of  Wainamoinen From  the  Kalevala. ...     14 

Students'  Themes — 

Origin  of  the  Moon Emanuel  Baja 16 

The  First  Coeoanut  Tree Manuel  Reyes 18 

The  Lotus Ida   Treat 21 

Legends 

Kenach  *s  Little  Woman William   Canton 28 

Students*  Themes — 

A  Legend  of  Gapan Teofilo  Corpus 36 

Manca :  a  Legend  of  the  Ineas Dorothea  Knoblock 38 

The  Place  of  the  Red  Grass Sixto  Guico 42 

Fairy  Tales 

The  Boggart. : From  the  English 55 

Students'  Themes — 

Caf re  and  the  Fisherman 's  Wife Benito  Ebuen 57 

The  Friendship  of  an  Asuang  and  a 

Duende    Emanuel  Baja 58 

A  Tianac  Frightens  Juan Santiago  Ochoa 61 

The  Black  Cloth  of  the  Calumpang. .  Eusebio   Ramos 63 

Nursery  Tales 

Princess  Helena  the  Fair From  the  Russian 69 

Students'  Themes — 

Juan  the  Guesser Bienvenido  Gonzalez.. . .     73 

The  Shepherd  who  became  King Vicente  Hilario 78 

Fables 

Jupiter  and  the  Countryman From  the  Spectator ....     90 

The  Drop  of  Water (Persian)  . .  From  the  Spectator. ...     91 

The  Grandee  at  the  Judgment  Scat. Kriloflf 91 

XV 


XVi  LIST  OF  STORIES 

PAGE 

The  Lion  and  the  Old  Hare From  the  Hitopadesa, .     92 

The  Fox  and  the  Crab From  the  Turkish 93 

The  Fool  who  Sells  Wisdom From  the  Turkish 94 

The  Archer  and  the  Trumpeter From  the  Turkish 95 

Students'  Themes — 

The  Courtship  of  Sir  Butterfly Maximo  M.  Kalaw 96 

The  Hat  and  the  Shoes Job6  R.  Perez 98 

The  Crocodire  and  the  Peahen Elisa  Esguerra ; . .  99 

The  Old  Man,  his  Son,  and  his  Grand- 
eon    Eutiquiano  Garcia 100 

Parables 

The  Three  Questions: Tolstoy 104 

Students'  Themes — 

A  Master  and  his  Servant Eusebio  Bamos 110 

The  Parable  of  the  Beggar  and   the 

Givers  Dorothea  KnoWock'. ....  Ill 

AHegorics 

The  Artist Oscar  Wikle 120 

The  House  of  Judgment Oscar  Wilde 120 

Students'  Themes — 

The  Chain  that  Binds Elizabeth   Sudborough. .  123 

The  Love  which  Surpassed  All  Other 

Loves Florence  Gifford 125 

Tales   of  Mere  Wonder 

The  Story  of  the  City  of  Brass From       the       Arabian 

Nights  132 

Student's  Theme — 
The  Magic  Bing,  the  Bird,  and   the 

Basket   Facundo  Esquivel 147 

Imaginary  Voyages 

Mellonta  Tauta Edgar  Allan  Poe 155 

Student's  Theme — 
Busyong's  Trip  to  Jupiter Manuel  Candido 173 

Tale   of  Scientific  Discovery  and   Mechanical   Invention 

A.  Curious  Vehicle Alexander  Wilson  Drake  200 

Students'  Themes — 

The  Spyglass  of  the  Past Hazel   Oreutt 218 

Up  a  Water  Spout Edna    CoUister 221 


LIST  OF  ST0BIE8  xvil 

PAGE 

I>etect^re  Storjr  ftnd  Tale  of  Mere  Plot 

Thou  Art  the  Man. Edgar  Allan  Poe 228 

Student's  Theme — 
The  Picture  of  Lhasa Hazel  Orcutt 248 

Taleft  of  More-or-Less  Probable  Adventure  / 

Fight  with  a  Bear/ Charles  Eeade 257  / 

Student's  Theme — 
Secret  of  the  Jade  Tlaloc Dorothea  Knoblock 267 

.  $<i|Giety  Storiea  / 

The  Fur  Coat Ludwig  Fulda 277   V 

Student's  Theme — 
The  Lady  in  Pink , . . . .  Wilma  L  Ball 289 

Humorous  Storiea 

The  Expatriation  of  Jonatban  Traa-  / 

tor  Charles  Battell  Loomis.  ZOZy 

Students'  Themes — 

A^ileto  and  the  Physician Lorenzo  Licup 307 

)(  The  Lame  Man  and  the  Deaf  Family .  Santiago  Eotea 311 

Occasional  Stories 

The  Lost  Child Francois  Copp6e 315  ^ 

Students'  Themes — 

The  Peace  of  Yesterdays. Katheriae  Kurn 334 

A  Christmas  Legend Ida  F.  Treat. ,'.'.  342 

Moral  Story 

Jeannot  and  Colin Voltaire 348 

Pedagogical  Narratives 

Gertrude's  Method  of  Instruction. . . .  Pestalozzi  .,,...,»..»»  365 
Student's  Theme — 
/\  Lawin-lawinan  (a  Filipino  game)  . . .'  .LeopoTdo  XJiehanco 368 


Xviii  LiST  OF  STORIES 

PAGE 

\  Stories  of  PrssentpDay  Realism 

V  The  Piece  of  String Maupassant   374 

Students'  Themes — 

A  Social  Error Ida  Treat 382 

The  Lot  of  the  Poor Agnes  Palmer 388 

Filipino  Fear Walfrido  de  Leon 390 

Psychological  Weird  Tales 

The  Signal-Man Charles  Dickens 403 

Student's  Theme — 
Like  a  Thief  in  the  Night Dorothea  Knoblock 420 

\  Stories  That  Emphasise  Character  and  Enrironment 

v^Muhammad  Din Budyard  Kipling 432 

Students'  Themes — 

The  Fetters '. Katherine  Knrz 436 

When  Terry  Quit Dorothea  Knoblock 446 

>VNora  Titay  and  Chiquito Joaquina  E.  Tirona 453 

\  Stories   That  Emphasise  Character  and  Eyonts  * 

^The  Necklace Maupassant   460 

Student's  Theme — 

V  Andong Juste  Avila 


470 


NAEEATIVES  OF  ACTUAL  EVENTS 

Incidents 

A  Near  Tragedy Fielding  482 

An    Incident    bisfore    Sadowa:    Birds 

Divulge  Army  Secrets Newspaper 483 

An  Incident  Related  in  a  Letter Robert  Louis  Stevenson  484 

Students'  Themes — 

A  Hero  Dead Ida  Treat 485 

^  My  First  Day  at  School Mdximo  Kalaw 487 

y  The  Guinatan  Prize Leopoldo  Faust ino 488 

Anecdotes 

Coleridge's  Retort 493 

An  Inevitable  Misfortune 494 

A  Point  Needing  to  be  Settled 494 

Patience 494 


V 


V 


LI8T  OP  STOBIES  xix 

PAGE 

Preaching  and  Practice 495 

Jolinson  's  Dictionary 495    / 

The  Boy  Kipling , . .  496  y/ 

Sir  Godfrey  Kneller Spence  496    . 

Pope  and  the  Trader Spence  497 

The     Capitan     Municipal     and     the  ' 

Jokers Joe^  Feliciano 497  ^ 

An  Instance  of  Bamboo  Spanish Pilar  Ejercito 498 

Mr.  Taft  's  Mistake Amando  dements 499  v^ 

Eye-Witness  Accounts 

The  Portuguese  Eevolution Newspaper 503  V 

Student '8  Theme — 
A  Contrast Adolfo  Scheerer 509       / 

Tales  of  Actual  Adventures  / 

The  Bear  Hunt Tolstoy :  514  V 

Students'  Themes — 

Saladin  and  I  Fight  an  Alupong Cecilio  Esquivel 525^^" 

I  Get  Two  Beatings Facundo  Esquivel 527  X 

The  Pall  of  Juan Gregorio  Farrales 528  > 

A  Narrow  Escape  from  a  Wild  Cara- 

bao  Jos6  Carifio 529 ,  \' 

Travellers'  Sketches 

On  the  Way  to  Talavera George  Borrow 534 

Smyrna — First  Glimpses  of  the  East .  Thackeray 539 

Student's  Theme — 
A  Trip  from  Curimao  to  Laoag Fernando  Maramag. . . .  551^ 

Journals  and  Diaries  /' 

Extracts  from  Pepys '  Diary 562  V 

Students'  Themes —  '  / 

A  Diary  of  Four  Days Facundo  Esquivel 564  V 

A  Journal:  Mock  Heroic Victorian©   Yamzon. . . .  567  >r.' 

Autobiography  and  Memoirs 

The  Life  of  David  Hume,  Esq Written  by  himself 575 

Student  autobiography Domingo  Guanio 585^^ 

What  I  Rememfer  of  the  Coming  of  * 

the  Americans. Leopoldo  Faustino 588^ 


\ 


XX  LIST  OP  STOBIBS    . 

PAGE 

Biographies 

Queen  C5hristina Hawthorne 595 

Students'  Themes — 

^  Juan  Luna 's  Life Dolores  Asuncion 604 

Life  of  Elizabeth  Glade Nellie  Barrington 607 

>(Th6  Biography  of  a  Traitor, Walfrido  de  Leon 609 


The  State  of  England,  in  Stephen's 
Keign  %,  Peterborough  Chronicle,  616 

^udenis'  Themes — 

X  Annals  of  Mangaldan Translated   by  Bernabc 

Aquino    621 

)^  Annals  of  Pagsanjan Dolores  Zafra 622 

Chronicles 

Eivalry  between  Two  Towns Froissart 630 

Students'  Themes — 

V       A'A. Short  History  of  Dagan Fernando  Mai^mag. . . .  636 

^*v    .Some   Incidents  of  the  Bebellion  of 

A    1898:   A  True  Relation Marcelino  Montemayor.  639 


INTiWDUCTION 

Tbere  are  many  interesting  possibilities  for  both  the 
reader  and  the  writer  in  a  study  of  narrative  .types. 
It  is  a  truism  to  say  that  everybody  loves  a  story.  Every 
race,  every  nation,  every  tribe,  every  faniily,  has  its 
favorite  narratives.  .Every  person  has  his  and  likes  to 
repeat  them.  Even  the  driest  old  matter-of-fact  cur- 
mudgeon delights  in  relating  an  incident  if  nothing  else. 
Perhaps  he  tells  you  of  how  he  lost  ai^d  found  again  his 
pocket  talisman — a  buckeye,  maybe,  or  a  Portuguese  cru- 
zado.  He  will  assure  you  that  he  does  not  really  believe 
that  the  unfortunate  events  that  followed  his  loss  of  it. 
were  occasioned  Vy  its  absence,  or  the  return  of  good-luck 
casually  connected  with  its  recovery;  .but  still,  he. adds, 
he  feels  much  better  with  the  old  thing  in  his  |).ooket. 
*'And  that  was  a  queer  coincidence,  wasn't  itT^  he  in- 
sists, starting  again  over  the  details  pf  the  happening. 
So  with  us  all:  we  all  know  and  love  stories,  o.ur  own 
or  another  person  V 

It. is  a  fine  thing  to  write  a  story.  It  is  good  through 
one's  imagination  and  skill  to  entertain  one '9  fellows  or 
through  one's  accurate  observation  of  life  and  history 
to  benefit  society.  The  narrator  hap  always  been  honored. 
In  earliest  times  he  was  the  seer  and  prophet,  forming 
the  religion  of  his  wandering  tribe;  later  he  was  the 
welcomed  guest,  for  whom  alone  the  frowning  castle's 
gate  stood  always  open ;  and  -after  the  dark  ages,  in.  the 
time  of  the  revival-of-the-love-of-written-thingp,  he  was 

•  xxi 


xxii  INTKODUCTION 

the  favorite  at  the  court  of  favoring  princes,  who  lav- 
ished upon  him  preferment  and  money  and  humbly 
offered  him  the  laurel  crown,  their  highest  tribute.  In 
our  own  day  his  reward  surpasses  that  of  kings  and 
presidents.  They  come  to  him,  and  for  immortality  in- 
voke his  name.  In  earliest  times  he  composed  in  verse 
so  that  his  story  might  be  remembered  and  handed  down. 
In  latest  times  he  writes  most  often  in  prose — a  more 
difficult  medium  to  handle  with  distinction,  but  one  more 
widely  understood  and  more  readily  appreciated  than 
poetry. 

Narrative  as  a  general  type  needs  no  definition.  What 
pure  description  is  the  ordinary  reader  might  hesitate 
to  assert,  or  exposition,  or  argumentation ;  but  not  story : 
he  knows  that.  Let  an  author  combine  these  others  with 
a  series  of  events,  let  him  put  them  in  as  aids  to  the 
understanding  or  as  ornaments  on  the  thread  of  his 
recital,  and  they  are  accepted  without  question  as  ele- 
ments of  narration,  be  it  prose  or  verse  in  form,  true  or 
fictitious  in  content.  That  is  to  say,  though  a  story  often 
contains  to  some  extent  all  the^  other  forms  of  writing 
too,  we  think  of  it  as  narrative  because  it  carries  us 
along  a  course  of  events.  Frequently  the  teller  spends 
much  time  in  studying  diflFerent  styles  and  kinds  of 
description  and  in  analyzing  various  devices  used  to 
secure  definite  effects,  because  he  wishes  to  call  to  his 
aid  every  bit  of  skill  possible  in  portraying  his  char- 
acters and  places;  but  general  readers  take  his  fine 
points  of  description  and  exposition  as  matters  of  course 
and  are  crudely  interested  in  the  happenings  he  has  to 
relate.  They  are  unconscious  of  the  fact  that  much  of 
their  enjoyment  comes  from  knowing  how  a  hero  looks. 


INTRODUCTION  xmi 

what  his  surroundings  are,  and  what  his  disposition  and 
usual  character.  A  story-writer  gives  no  small  amount 
of  attention  also  to  transcribing  conversations;  but  the 
ordinary  reader  takes  these  likewise  as  expected  parts 
of  narrative.  But  there  is  one  thing  that  the  author 
and  the  reader  agree  on  at  the  outset  as  necessary  to  be 
settled;  namely,  the  kind  of  story  to  be  written  or 
to  be  read. 

It  is  pleasant  to  know  that  there  are  definite  types 
of  narratives  that  the  world  has  always  loved,  and  that 
there  are  new  forms  growing  up  as  civilization  becomes 
more  complex.  Some  of  the  kinds  of  stories  discussed 
in  this  book  are  older  than  the  English  language,  older 
than  Christianity,  older  even  than  the  divisions  of 
Aryan  speech.  They  seem  to  be  inherent  forms  of  all 
literatures,  to  be  as  ancient  as  thought  and  as  young  as 
inspiration.    They  are  in  use  to-day  in  every  tongue. 

This  book  attempts  to  set  forth  the  distinguishing 
elements  of  the  types  that  have  persisted,  those  matters 
that  a  writer  must  take  into  account  when  producing  or 
a  critic  when  judging.  Though  its  title  emphasizes  the 
fact  that  now-a-days  most  persons  think  of  stories  as 
being  always  in  prose,  the  book  discriminates  but  little 
in  this  respect.  In  reality  a  student  of  narrative  cares 
hardly  at  all  whether  the  vehicle  be  meter  or  not.  He 
is  concerned  with  something  else.  Language  form  is 
rather  an  accident  of  the  time  and  the  fashion  than  any- 
thing essential.  It  is  not  dependent  on  the  author's 
personality  even.  Chaucer  undoubtedly  would  write  in 
prose  to-day,  whereas  our  modern  idealists  would  cer- 
tainly have  lisped  in  numbers  a  hundred  years  ago. 
We  study  narrative  types,  therefore,  with  the  idea  that 


xxiv  INTRODUCTIOX 

verse  tales  are  but  rojeasiired  and  rhythmieal  expression 
of  the  same  forms — sometimes  the  best,  sometimes 
merely  the  most  popular  expression — but  that  the  de- 
velopment in  presentation  has  b^en  toward  prose, 
especially  for  the  more  psychological  arid  coni|plex  ma- 
terial. 

On  the  basis  of  content,  narratives  fall  naturally  into 
two  large  divisions:  those  that  recount  imaginary  hap- 
penings and  those  that  recount  actual  happenings.  These 
large. divisions  in  turn. fall  into  smaller  and  still  smaller 
groups  upon  one  basis  or  anoth^^ — ^source,  purpose, 
method,  or  what  not. 

Under  the  division  of  narratives  of  fictiticras  events 
we  natice  six  groups,  when  we  are  thinking  of  source  and 
purpose:  (1)  the  primitive-religious;  (2)  the  symbolic- 
didactic;  (3)  tiie  ingenious-astonishing;  (4)  the  merely 
entertaining;  (5)  the  instructive;;  (6)  the  artistic. 
Within  thfese  groups,  come  the  following  individual 
types :  ( 1 )  myth,  legend,  fairy  tale,  nursery  saga ;  ( 2 ) . 
fable,  parable,  allegsory;  (3)  the  tale  of  mere  wonder, 
the  imaginary  voyage  with  a  satiric  or  expository  pur- 
pose, the  tale  of  scientific  discovery  and  mechanical  in- 
vention, the  detective  story;  (4)  the  probable. adventure^ 
the  society  story,,  the  humorousi  and  picaresque  story,  the 
occasional  story;  (5)  the  moral  tale,  the  pedagogical 
narrative,  the  realistic'  sketch;'  (6)  the  psychological 
weird  tale;  the  story  that  emphasises  place  and  char- 
acter, the  story  that  empharfzes  events  and  character: 

On  the.  basis  of  iBorm  and  of  the  attitude  of  the 
teller,  narratives  of  actual  events  fall  into  three  groups. 
The  first  set  has  five  types:  incident,'  anecdote^  eye-wit- 
ness account,  traveler's  sketch,  and  the  tale  of  actual 


INTRODUCTION  XXV 

adventure.  The  second  set  includes  journal  and  diary, 
autobiography  and  memoirs,  biography.  The  third  set 
is  composed  of  annals,  and  chronicles  and  true  relations. 
Instead  of  naming  these  serts,  we  might  describe  thera 
thus :  The  first  is  made  up  of  particular  accounts  of  the 
doings  of  the  writer  and  others  in  chance  groups;  the 
second,  of  more-or-less  extended  accounts  of  the  sayings 
and  doings  of  individual  personages  who  for  the 'time 
are  important  and  either  write  about  themselves  or  are 
written  about  ^  the  third,  of  impersonal  accounts  of  the 
doings  of  larger  or  smaller  sections  of  mahkind  as  units. 

Of  course,  the  types  fade  into  one  anotbei*,  and  it  is 
only  in  lanalyzing  that  a  person  would  draw  a  hard  and 
fast. line  between  any  two  of  them;  but  it  is  permissible 
to  draw  this  line  for  the  convenience  of  study  and  dis- 
cussion. After  an  investigator  has  learned  all  the  kinds, 
he  may  classify  a  given  story  into  one  or  the  other  group 
according  to  the  predominatin:^  characteristics,  or  he 
may  make  a  group  of  narratives  of  mixed  kinds,  and  con- 
sider the  various  elements. 

If  he  is  trying,  however,  to  write  also,  as  well  as  to 
study  according  to  the  suggestions  of  this  book,  it  would 
be  a  good  plan  for  him  to  endeavor  to  produce  at  each  at- 
tempt a  rather  more  than  less  pure  example  of  the  type 
mider  consideration,  so  as  to  get  as  a  result  not  only  an 
interesting  narrative,  but  a  working  model  either  for  crit- 
icism or  further  production.  For  a  person  to  have  studied 
carefully  an  analysis  of  a  type,  to  have  read  a  distinct 
literary  example  of  it,  and  to  have  attempted  to  put  to- 
gether a  narrative  that  contains  the  essential  elements, 
ought  to  mean  that  he  has  in  his  possession  a  piece  of 
knowledge  that  will  be  valuable  to  him  all  his  life,  ir- 


Xx\i  INTRODUCTION 

respective  of  any  purely  artistic  quality  of  his  achieve- 
ment.   That  quality  will  probably  be  present  much  more 
(    surely  than  he  at  first  expects ;  for  a  large  part  of  the  ex- 

icellence  of  a  piece  of  literature  results  from  definite 
knowledge  on  the  part  of  the  writer,  a  clear  aim  to  pro- 
\  duce  a  particular  kind  of  composition,  and  an  indefa- 
!  tigable  perseverance  in  revision  of  details.    By  emphasis 
*  on  knowledge  and  work  one  would  not  preclude  inspira- 
;  tion.    Indeed,  one  would  thereby  court  it ;  for,  as  we  all 
J  know,  it  comes  usually  only  to  the  expert  and  patient 
toiler.    Even  Robert  Bums  labored  long  over  his  reput- 
edly spontaneous  songs.    The  thought  came  to  him  often 
at  the  plough,  it  is  true ;  but  he  confesses  that  afterwards 
he  spent  many  hours  polishing  his  lines. 


PART  I 

NARRATIVES  OF  IMAGINARY 
EVENTS 


TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 


CHAPTER  I 

THE  PRIMITIVE-RELIGIOUS  GROUP 

The  traditional  types — myth,  legend,  fairy  tale,  and 
nursery  saga — are  designated  as  primitive-religious  in 
order  to  express  the  fact  that  they  grew  up  in  response 
to  the*  reverent  credulity  of  simple  folk.  The  myths 
of  all  races  are  the  embodiment  of  their  highest  pre- 
historic religious  thinking.  The  legends  are  theiir  semi- 
historical,  semi-religious  thinking.  The  fairy  and  nurs- 
ery stories  are  modified  forms  of  the  other  two.  Conse- 
quently they  all  belong  together  in  one  group. 

I.    The  Myth 

There  are  two  g'esueral  classes  of  myths : .  the  primi- 
tive-tribal and  the  artificialJiterary,  or  luytbs  of 
growth  and  myths  of  art. 

From  the  point  of  view  of  ethnology,  the  myth  of 
growth  is  primitive  philosophy,  and  represents  racial 
anthropomorphic  thinking  coacerning  the  '  universe. 
Anthropomorphic  is  ^ai  term  derived  from  the  Greek 
avOpoyrro^,  meaning  man^  and  /Aop0^,  meaning  shape  or 
form,  and  is  used  to  describe  the  tendency  of  people  >  to 


2  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

represent  invisible  forces  as  having  human  form  (for 
example,  the  Deity),  or  natural  forces  like  fire  and  wind 
as  being  animate,  volitional  agents.  It  is  probably- 
true  that,  at  a  very  early  stage  in  the  development  of 
both  the  individual  and  the  race,  every  object  is  looked 
upon  as  having  life;  and  later,  if  any  distinction  is 
made  between  animate  and  inanimate,  spirits  are  yet 
regarded  as  agents  controlling  the  inanimate  and  caus- 
ing changes  therein.  A  myth  of  growth  is  the  verbal 
expression  of  this  attitude  of  the  mind  tof  a  people  in 
its  wider  and  deeper  imaginings. 

Doubtless  after  the  first  or  second  repetition  of  a 
myth,  which  some  seer  of  a  tribe  chants  in  rude  verse, 
the  primitive  listener  is  confused  between  fact  and 
fancy.  The  non-essential  incidents  which  the  narrator 
adds  from  sheer  love  of  making  up  a  stoty  are  not' dis- 
tinguished from  the  incidents  that,  really  express  the 
working  of  natural  forces.  So  it  happens  that,  in 
the  time  between  the  first  starting  up  of  the  account 
and  the  analysis  and  explanation  of  it  by  some  philos- 
opher, a  narrative  handed  down,  from  father  to  son  is 
believed  in,  word  for  word,  as  religious  truth,  though 
gaining  details  and  losing  it»  original  meaning  as  it 
goes.  As  some  one  has  said,  it  was  because  the  Greeks 
had  forgotten  that  Zeus  meant  the  bright  shu  that  they 
could  talk  of  him  as  a  king  ruling  a  company  of  man- 
like deities  on  Mount  Olympus* 

There  are  many  beautiful  myths  existing  to-dior  in 
prose  and  poetry.  In  the  tribal  species,  there  is  the 
great  mass  of  Greek  and  Roman  early  religious  stories 
aifd  there  are  the  Oriental  and  the  Nors^  cycles.  In 
the  artificial  group  there  are  the  later  Greek  and  Ro- 


THE  PBIMITIVE-RELIGIOUS  GROUP  8 

man  myths  like  those  devised  by  Plato  and  Plutarch, 
and  there  are  our  more  modern  beautiful  creations  with 
myth  elements  like  Milton's  *'Comus''  and  many  of 
the  poems  of  I^eats,  where  not  only  the  incidents  are 
newly  made  but  the  deities  also.  In  prose  we  have  the 
delightful  ''Wonder  Book/'  which  Hawthorne  pre- 
pared for  children.  We  have  become  so  familiar  with 
''Paradise  Lost"  that  we  hardly  realize  that  it  is  essen- 
tially myth — a  great  seer's  expression  of  the  anthropo- 
morphism of  his  people.  Like  a  true  bard  of  old,  Mil- 
ton added  much  also  to  his  people's  thinking  on  the  uni- 
verse. How  much  he  added  we  see  fully  only  when  we 
deliberately  compare  the  extension  and  concreteness 
of  his  account  with  the  meagerness  of  the  Hebrew 
Scriptures. 

An  error  we  are  liable  to  fall  into  concerning  myths 
is  that  of  presuming  that  they  are  wholly  things  of  the 
past;  that  nowadays  nobody  believes  in  Myth  age 
them  or  tells  them.  In  fact,  many  persons  not  a  past 
and  many  tribes  believe  in  them  and  tell 
them.  The  myth  age  is  not  a  past  epoch,  but  a  con- 
dition of  thinking.  It  is  always  preselft  somewhere  and 
present  to  some  extent  always  among  all  races.  The 
primitive  tribes  of  the  Philippines  believe  implicitly  in 
their  myths.  The  Bontoc  Igorots,  for  example,  tell  how 
the  Moon  woman,  Kabigat,  cut  off  the  head  of  a  child 
of  the  Sun  man,  Chal-chal,  and  thus  taught  head-hunt- 
ing to  earth  people ;  some  of  them  tell,  too,  how  Coling, 
the  Serpent  Eagle,  was  made,  and  happens  to  be  always 
hovering  over  their  pueblo.  Even  the  youngest  child 
knows  how  the  rice-bird  came  about,  and  why  an 
Igorot  never  harms  0-wug,  the  snake.    These  stories 


4  TYPES  OF.  PROSE  NARBATIVES 

are  being  gathered  to-day  .by  Amerioan  scientists  and 
fitre  beiog  written  dpwn  for  tbe  first  time.  The  native 
college  students  of  the  Islands  hav^.  jpined  in  a  move- 
ment to  preserve  the  traditions  of  the  naore  civilized 
tribes  also,  and  are.  induytriously  putting  into  written 
form  the  stories  of  thei?  people.  Most  pf- these  ^re  not 
beliefs  that  are  past,  but  beliefs  about  the  past — a 
distinction  noteworthy  tQ.tbe  student  of  myths.  liittle 
eyidren  of  all  races  are  naturally  in  a  myth  age,  and 
many,  of  their  imaginings  are  as  beautiful  :as  those  of  the 
old  Greeks,  arid*  if  made  known,  would  be  as  cpntribu- 
tive  to  literature,  I  dare  say.  Poets  are  but  grown-up 
children  to  whom  Nature  makes  a.  .continued  concrete 
appeal,  and  they  ase  always  thi^king  myth-wise,  wc 
well  know. 

■  So  it  happens  that  even  the  mpst  learj?,ed  man  is 
willing  to  listen  to  a  new^.  myth.  AH  the  reader  de- 
man(Js  is  that  it  shall  be  either  a  scientifically  inadc 
record  of  some  present  tribal  belief  or  a  beautiful  and 
philPsophieal  interpretation  of  the  workings  of  nature 
— *such  a  one  as. a  simply,  early  pagan,  but  ppetia  and 
essentially  refinwi,  mind  might  imagine.  Plato's  myths 
were  advisedly  aritifioial.  ,He  deliberately  set  out  to 
modify  and  improve  the  government  of  his.  time  by 
means  of  religious  stprieSj  and  h^  begge^  the  other 
philosophers  to  attempt  the  like  .alsfo.  He  gave  his 
riiagnificent  ''Vision  of  Er"  as.  an  example,  of  what 
might  be  done. 

If  one  wishes  to  coUect  traditional  myths  among  a 
primitive  people,  this  is  in  general  the  way  he  pro- 
ceeds: He  calls  to  his  aid  the.  more  elderly  folk  and  the 
little  childi*en — ^those  that  haye  time  and  inclin,ation  to 


THE  PRIMITIVE-RELIGIOUS  GROtJP  g 

talk.  If  he  can  not  speak  their  dialect,  he  obtains  an 
interpreter — ^if  possible,  one  very  intimate  and  sociable 
with  the  tribe.  Then  he  himself  tries  to  get  ^^^  tradl- 
into  good  fellowship  with  all,  and  to  induce  tlonal 
free  and  natural  talking.  He  asks  for  tales  ^^^^^ 
of  the  sun  and  moon,  the  wind  and  the  rain, 
grasses,  flowers,  birds,  clouds,  mountain-systems,  river- 
chains,  lightning,  thunder,  and  whatever  else  their  gods 
have  charge  of.  He  asks  about  the  relation  of  these 
gods  with  the  deities  of  neighboring  peoples — ^which,  if 
any,  are  to  be  feared  and  why.  Then  he  makes  note  of 
as  many  historical  facts  as  he  can  about  the  tribe — 
where  it  first  lived,  what  are  the  topographical  features 
of  the  remote  and  the  immediate  places  of  abode,  how 
powerful  the  warriors  are,  what  respect  they  command 
from  outsiders,  what  are  considered  most  honored  occu- 
pations, and  so  on.  These  facts  are  not  to  go  explicitly 
into  the  story,  but  are  to  form  the  background  of 
explanation  if  he  cares  to  seek  or  give  one.  Then,  too, 
they  may  aid  him  in  making  a  happy  translation  of  the 
primitive  oral  narrative.  The  aim  of  the  collector,  how- 
ever, is  accuracy  rather  than  beauty,  though  beauty  may 
be  present  in  his  versions. 

The  writer  of  an  original  myth,  on  the  other  hand, 
tries  to  make  his  diction  as  exquisite  as  he  can  without 
affectation.     He  proceeds  somewhat  differ- 
ently, though  with  no  less  forethought.     If  inaTm^hs 
he  wishes  to  use  gods  and  goddesses  already  are  corn- 
known,  he  attempts  not  to  violate  the  gen-      ** 
erally  accepted  notions  of  their  characteristics.     He 
bears  in  mind  that  the  beings  of  myths  are  large, 
ample,  superhuman,  of  the  race  of  the  infinite.    Above 


6  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

mortals,  they  rule  mortals  or  ignore  them.  The  gods 
are  never  petty,  though  they  may  be  trivial.  They 
belong  to  the  over-world.  Th^y  are  essential:  they 
make  day  and  night,  the  coming  of  the  seasons,  the 
roll  of  the  ocean,  the  rising  and  setting  of  the  con- 
stellations. Connected  with  them  too,  of  course,  he 
knows,  are  the  lesser  events  of  Nature's  activity,  the 
speaking  of  echo,  the  blooming  of  the  slender  narcissus 
at  the  edge  of  the  pool,  the  drooping  of  the  poplars. 
Hence  the  writer  of  a  myth,  of  art  modifies  or  adds,  but 
avoids  making  radical  changes.  If  he  chooses  wholly 
to  invent  his  deities,  he  picks  out  for  each  a  definite 
phenomenon  and  keeps  it  steadily  in  .mind  in  order 
that  his  created  personage  may  be  an  appropriate  one 
to  perform  the  well-known  actions  of  the  natural  force 
he  is  explaining.  He  makes  the  deeds  of  his  beings 
far-reaching  in  result  and  does  not  forget  to  give  them 
euphonious  and  suggestive  names. 

There  is.  a  difference  between  myth  and  allegory 
as  narratives,  although  myth  is  fundamentally  alle- 
gorical in  the  broad  sense  of  the  term.  The 
between^^  actors  of  myth  are  rather  representative 
myth  and  than  figurative.  Being  grander  they  are  at 
egoxy  ^^^^  more  simple  and  dignified  than  those 
of  allegory.  The  gods  are  not  thin  abstractions  raised 
to  concreteness,  but  are  powerful  forces  reduced  to  the 
likeness  of  men. 

Pure  myth  is  different  from  pure  legend  likewise, 
though  legend  may  have  gods  in  it.  Legend  is  gener- 
ally confined  to  a  particular  person  or  event,  or  is  con- 
nected with  a  definite  spot  and  a  limited  result ;  whereas 
myth  deals  with  universal  phenomena. 


THE  PRIMITIVE-RELIGIOUS  GROUP  7 

The  collector  or  composer  of  myths,  accordingly, 
posits  for  himself  some  such  working   definition  as 
this :    A  myth  is  a  story  accounting  in  a  f  anci- 
ful  way  for  a  far-reaching  natural  phenom-  definition 


of 
myth 


enon.  The  basis  on  which  the  narrator  pro- 
ceeds is  emphatically  not  science,  but  imagina- 
tion and  philosophy.  He  pictures  the  activities  of  the 
universe  as  the  conduct  of  personal  beings,  as  godjs  and 
goddesses  doing  good  or  evil,  creating  and  destroying, 
ruling  man  or  ignoring  him,  punishing  and  rewarding. 


A  List  of  Deities 

Great  Greek 

Deities                          Great  Roman  Deities 

Zeus 

Jupiter  (king) 

Appollon  ' 

Apollo  (the  sun) 

Ares 

Mars  (war) 

Hermes 

Mercury  (messenger) 

Poseidon 

Neptune  (ocean) 

Hephaistos 

Vulcan    (smith  who  made  the 

armor  of  the  gods) 

Hera 

Juno  (queen) 

Demeter 

Ceres  (tillage) 

Artemis 

Diana  (moon,  hunting) 

Athena 

Minerva  (wisdom) 

Aphrodite 

Venus  (love  and  beauty) 

Hestia 

Vesta  (home  life) 

Dionysos 

Bacchus  (wine  and  revelry) 

Eros 

Cupid  (the  lad  Love) 

Pluton 

Pluto  (king  of  Hades) 

Kronos 

Saturn  (Time,  who  devoured  all 

his   children   except  Jupiter, 

Neptune  and  Pluto) 

_  ^ 


8  TYPES  OF  PKOSE  NARRATIVES 

Juno  was  the  wife  of  Jupiter,  Hera  of  Zeua, 
Venus  of  Vulcan,  Aphrodite  of  Hephaistos. 
Persephone  was  wife  of  Pluton,  Proserpine  was 
wife  of  Pluto,  Cybele  was  wife  of  Saturn, 
Rhea  was  wife  of  Kronos. 

Egjptian  Gods 

Ra — ^the  sun,  usually  represented  as  a  hawk-headed 
man.  He  protects  mankind,  but  has  nothing  in  com- 
mon with  men. 

Shu — light,  a  type  of  celestial  force,  for  he  is  repre- 
sented supporting  the  goddess  of  heaven.  His  con- 
sort was  Tefnet. 

Seb — ^the  god  of  the  earth;  Nut  was  the  goddess  of 
heaven.    These  two  are  called  ''father  of  the  gods.'' 

Osiris — ^the  good  principle.  He  is  in  perpetual  warfare 
with  evil.  He  is  the  source  of  warmth,  life  and 
fruitfulness.  Isis,  his  wife,  was  his  counterpart 
in  many  respects.  Osiris  became  the  judge  of  the 
under- world,  and  Isis  was  the  giver  of  death. 

Horus — the  son  of  Osiris.  He  avenged  his  father,  who 
was  slain  by  Typhon. 

Seth,  or  Typhon — the  brother  of  Osiris,  and  his  chief 
opponent.  He  represented  physical  evil;  he  was 
the  enemy  of  all  good.    His  consort  was  Nebti. 

Thoth — the  god  of  letters,  the  clerk  of  the  underworld, 
and  the  keeper  of  the  records  for  the  great  judge, 
Osiris.    The  chief  moon-god. 

Ptah — the  Egyptian  Hephaestus,  the  divine  architect. 

Ma-t — ^the  goddess  of  truth.  She  is  characterized  by 
the  ostrich  feather,  the  emblem  of  truth,  on  her 
head. 


THE  PEIMITIVE.RELIGIOUS  GROUP  9 

Anubis — the  jackal-headed,  presided  over  tombs  and 

mtimmification. 
The  Sphinx — a  beneficent  being  who  personified  the 

fruit-bearing  earth,  and  was  a  deity  of  wisdom  and 

knowledge. 

Hindoo  Goik 

Dyaus — ^the  most  ancient  name  for  the  supreme  god. 

Dyaus,  the  heaven,  married  Prithivi,  the  earth,  and 

they  became  the  father  and  mother  of  the  other 

Hindu  gods.    Dyaus  is  also  the  god  of  rain. 
Indra — the  rain-bringer.    The  son  of  Dyaus.    He  is  a 

strong,  impetuons  warrior,  drives  a  chariot  drawn 

by  pawing  steeds,  bears  a  resistless  lance  that  is 

lightning. 
Vishnu — one  name  for  the  sun;  second  god  of  the 

Hindu  triad,  literally  the  Pervader.     (Brahma  and 

Siva  are  the  other  two  of  the  trinity.) 

Vishnu  is  represented  as  being  of  blue  color.    His 

sacti,  or  wife,  is  Lakshmi,  the  goddess  of  wealth. 
Mitra — another  name  for  the  sun-god. 
Rudra — ^the  father  of  the  storm-gods,  the  Maruts. 
Maruts — ^the  storm  gods.  **They  overturn  trees,  destoy 

whole  forests,  they  roar  like  lions,  are  swift  as 

thought.    In  the  Maruts  we  see  blind  strength  and 

fury  without  judgment." 
Vayu — sometimes  the  wind  was  thought  of  as  a  single 

personality.    He  was  called  Vayu.     ^ 
Agni — the  fire-god.    Considered  the  messenger  between 

the  Hindus  and  heaven.    He  carjied  their  offerings 

to  Dyaus-pitar. 
Varuna — the  noble$t  figure  of  the  Vedic  religion.    Th^ 


10  TYPES  OF  PEOSE  NARRATIVES 

supreme  god  at  one  time.     Sometimes  he  was  the 
All-Surrounder.    Later  he  was  ruler  of  the  seas. 

Yama — ^the  judge  of  the  dead.  He  had  a  dog  with 
four  eyes  and  wide  nostrils,  whom  he  »ent  to  earth 
to  collect  those  about  to  die. 

Vritva — an  evil  snake  which  had  stolen  some  treasure 
and  a  maiden,  Ushas.    She  was  rescued  by  Indra. 

Ushas  (Ahana) — a  pure,  white-robed  being  from  whose 
presence  every  dark  thing  fled  away.  Ushas  never 
grows  old,  but  she  makes  others  old.  (Same  as  Eos, 
Greek;  Aurora,  Latin.)  She  is  the  dawn;  is  also 
known  by  the  name  of  Dahana. 

Rita — a  word  to  signify  the  all-pervading  law  of  na- 
ture. It  was  the  power  that  settled  the  path  of  the 
sun.  The  abode  of  Rita  was  in  the  east,  and  finally 
every  good  thing  traveled  in  the  path  of  Rita. 

Asoura  Medhas — ^the  wise  living  one,  the  animation  of 
moving  mind  and  matter.  He  is  the  mysterious 
principle  of  life,  is  represented  as  one  god  high  over 
everything.  However,  he  mingles  in  the  aflEairs  of 
men. 

Surya  (same  as  Gr.  Helios) — the  special  god  who  dwelt 
in  the  body  of  the  sun. 

Savitar — another  personification  of  the  sun.  He  is 
spoken  of  as  golden-eyed,  golden-tongued  and 
golden-handed. 

MINOR  DEITIES 

Kuvera — the  god  of  riches. 

Kamadeva — ^the  god  of  love,  represented  as  riding  on  a 
dove,  and  armed  with  an  arrow  of  flowers  and  a 
bow,  whose  string  is  formed  of  bees. 

Ganesha — the  god  of  prudence  and  policy. 


THE  PBIMITIVE-RELIGIOUS  GEOUP  H 

Ruirian  Gods 

Peroun — Lightning ;  the  chief  god. 

Svaroga— begetter  of  fire  and  of  the  sun  gods.  Used 
also  sometimes  as  name  of  chief  god. 

Dajh'bog — grandfather  of  the  sun. 

Kolyada — ^beneficent  spirit  who  was  supposed  to  visit 
the  farms  and  villages  in  mid-winter  and  bring  fer- 
tility to  the  pent-up  herds  and  frost-bound  seeds. 
A  festival  in  honor  of  Kolyada  was  held  about 
December  25,  the  date  when  the  sun  was  supposed 
to  triumph  over  the  death  in  which  Nature  had 
gripped  him,  and  to  enter  again  on  his  new  span  of 
life. 

Stribog — ^wind-god. 

Finnish  Mythology  (deriyed  from  KCalevala) 

Ahto — god  of  the  sfea. 

Hisi — evil  spirit,  also  called  Lempo.    His  son  was  Ahti, 

another  name  for  Lemminkainen. 
Lowjatar — Tuoni*s     daughter;    mother    of    the    nine 

diseases. 
Mana — also  called  Tuoni ;  the  god  of  death. 
Manala — also  called  Tuonela ;  the  Deathland,  for  it  was 

the  abode  of  Mana. 
Suonetar — the  goddess  of  the  veins. 
Tapio — the  forest-god. 
Ukko — the  greatest  god  of  the  Finns. 
Mielikki — the  forest-goddess. 
Osraotar — ^the  wise  maiden  who  first  made  beer. 
Sampo — the  magic  mill  forged  by  Ilmarinen,  which 

brought  wealth  and  happiness  to  its  possessor. 


12  TYPES  OF  PEOSE  NAREATIVES 

Norte  Deitiea 

Odin — the  All-father. 

Thor — ^the  thunderer. 

Baldr — the  shining  god ;  he  typifies  day. 

Freyr  (Fro) — f ruitfulness ;  the  patron  of  seafarers. 

Tyr — the  god  of  war  and  athletic  sports. 

Bragi — god  of  poetry  and  eloquence. 

Hodur — ^Baldur's  twin  brother;  the  god  of  darkness. 

Heimdall — ^kept  the  keys  of  heaven ;  was  the  watchman 
of  Asgard. 

UUe — god  of  the  chase  aud  of  archery,  A  fast  runner 
on  stilts  or  snowshoes. 

Mimir — most  celebrated  of  the  giants ;  god  of  wisdom 
and  knowledge. 

Loki — the  god  of  strife  and  the  spirit  of  evil.  '  He  had 
threje  cruel  and  hateful  children:  Fenris,  a  huge 
wolf;  Hel,  half  black  and  half  blue,  who  lived  on 
men's  brains  and  marrow;  and  Formungard,  the 
monstrous  serpent  of  Midgard.  Loki's  wife  was 
Sigura. 

Filipino  Deities 

TAGALOG 
Atasip — a  demon  of  the  ancient  Tagalogs. 
Bathala — principal  god  of  the  Tagalogs. 
Dian  Masalanta — ^the  god  which  was  the  patron  of 

lovers  and  the  god  of  procreation. 
Idinale — ^the  god  of  husbandry. 
Lakhanbakor  or  Lakhanbakod — ^a  god  who  cured  sick- 

ness. 
Lakambui — a  god  who  first  (according  to  some  writers) 

gave  food. 
Pasing-tabi   sa   nono — ^with   this  phrase  the   Tagalogs 


THE  PRIMITIVE-RELIGIOUS  GROUP  13 

used  to  pray  the  gods  of  the  fields  to  allow  them  to 

walk  on  the  fields  and  cultivate  them. 
Sinaya — a  divinity  which  the  fishermen  used  to  pray  to. 
Sitan — a  kind  of  evil  spirit  (a  Mohametan  word). 
Sonat — ^the  pontif  ex  maximus  of  the  ancient  Tagalogs. 

VISAYAN 

Laon — ^the  supreme  god. 

Makabantog — ^the  god  of  licentiousness  and  tumult. 

Sigbin — certain  familiar  spirits,  which  used  to  accom- 
pany any  woman.  They  made  a  bargain  with  her 
and  served  her  constantly. 

Solad — the  Inferno. 

Sikabay — ^Eve,  the  first  woman. 

Sikalak — ^the  first  man,  Adam. 

Sinburanen — the  god  who  conducted  the  souls  of  the 
dead  consigned  to  Hades. 


Suigaguran 

Suinuran 

Sumpay 


gods  of  the  Inferno. 


Tagalabong — spirits  who  lived  in  the  fields  and  woods. 

Vatangao — a  god  which  made  himself  visible  in  the 

rainbow.   Warriors  going  to  battle  invoked  this  god. 

BAGOBOS 

Bayguebay — ^the  first  woman  or  Eve. 
Damakolen — ^the  god  who  made  the  hills  and  mountains. 
Makakoret — the  god  who  created  the  air. 
Makaponquis — ^the  god  who  created  water. 
Malibud — ^the  deity  (fem.)  who  created  woman. 


14  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

Mamale— ^the  god  who  created  the  earth. 

Rioa-Rioa — a  horrible  and  evil  being  which,  suspended 

from  the  zenith  like  a  large  pendulum,  approaches 

the  earth  and  devours  those  men  which  his  servant 

Tabankak  gives  him. 
Salibud — the  god  who  taught  the  jBrst  men  to  cultivate 

the  fields,  to  trade,  and  to  practice  other  industries. 

Note:     In  the  Filipino  themes  a  foreign  word  is  italicized 
only  the  first  time  it  appears. 

The  World's  Creation  and  the  Birtli  of  Wainamoinen 

Long,  long  ago,  before  this  world  was  created,  there 
lived  a  lovely  maiden  called  Ilmatar,  the  daughter  of 
the  Ether.  She  dwelt  in  the  air — ^there  were  only  air 
and  water  then — ^but  at  length  she  grew  tired  of  always 
being  on  high,  and  came  down  and  floated  on  the  sur- 
face of  the  water.  Suddenly,  as  she  lay  there,  a  mighty 
storm-wind  began  to  blow  and  poor  Ilmatar  was  tossed 
about  helplessly  on  the  waves,  until  at  length  the  wind 
died  down,  the  waves  became  still,  and  Ilmatar,  worn 
out  by  the  violence  of  the  tempest,  sank  beneath  the 
waters. 

Then  a  magic  spell  overpowered  her,  and  she  swam 
on  and  on  vainly  seeking  to  rise  above  the  waters,  but 
always  unable  to  do  so.  Seven  hundred  long  weary 
years  she  swam  thus,  until  one  day  she  could  not  bear 
the  loneliness  longer,  and  cried  out:  **Woe  is  me  that 
I  have  fallen  from  my  happy  home  in  the  air,  and  can- 
not now  rise  above  the  surface  of  the  waters.  0  great 
Ukko,  ruler  of  the  skies,  come  and  aid  me  in  my  sorrow ! ' ' 

No  sooner  had  she  ended  her  appeal  to  Ukko  than 
a  lovely  duck  flew  down  out  of  the  sky,  and  hovered 


THE  PEIMITIVE-EELIGpUS  GBOUP  15 

over  the  waters  looking  for  a  place  to  auight;  but  it 
found  none.  Then  Ilmatar  raised  her  knees  above  the 
water,  so  that  the  duck  might  rest  upon  them;  and  no 
sooner  did  the  duck  spy  them  than  it  flew  towards 
them  and,  without  even  stopping  to  rest,  began  to  build 
a  nest  upon  them. 

When  the  nest  was  finished,  the  duck  laid  in  it  six 
golden  eggs,  and  a  seventh  of  iron,  and  sat  upon  to 
hatch  them.  Three  days  the  duck  sat  on  the  eggs,  and 
all  the  while  the  water  around  Ilmatar 's  knees  grew 
hotter  and  hotter,  and  her  knees  began  to  burn  as  if 
they  were  on  fire.  The  pain  was  so  great  that  it  caused 
her  to  tremble  all  over,  and  her  quivering  shook  the 
nest  off  her  knees,  and  the  eggs  all  fell  to  the  bottom 
of  the  ocean  and  broke  in  pieces.  But  these  pieces 
came  together  into  two  parts  and  grew  to  a  huge  size, 
and  the  upper  one  became  the  arched  heavens  above  us, 
and  the  lower  one  our  world  itself.  From  the  white 
part  of  the  egg  came  the  moonbeams,  and  from  the  yolk 
the  bright  sunshine.  \ 

At  last  the  unfortunate  Ilmatar  was  able  to  raise 
her  head  out  of  the  waters,  and  she  then  began  to  create 
the  land.  Wherever  she  put  her  hand  there  arose  a 
lovely  hill,  and  where  she  stepped  she  made  a  lake. 
Where  she  dived  below  the  surface  are  the* deep  places 
of  the  ocean,  where  she  turned  her  head  towards  the 
land  there  grew  deep  bays  and  inlets,  and  where  she 
floated  on  her  back  she  made  hidden  rocks  and  reefs 
where  so  many  ships  and  lives  have  been  lost.  Thus 
the  islands  and  the  rocks  and  the  firm  land  were  created. 

After  the  land  was  made  Wainamoinen  was  bom, 
but  he  was  not  born  a  child,  but  a  full-grown  man, 


16  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NAERATIVES 

full  of  wisdom  and  magic  power.     For  seven  whole 
years  he  swam  about  in  the  ocean,  and  in  the  eighth 
he  left  the  water  and  stepped  upon  the  dry  land.    Thus 
was  the  birth  of  Wainamoinen,  the  wonderful  magician. 
— Prom  the  Kalevala. 

''Finnish  Legencis  for  English  Children,"  by  B.  Eivind  (T. 
Fisher  Unwin). 

TBIBAL  M7TH 
Origin  of  the  Moon 

South  and  east  of  Manila  Bay  stretches  a  piece  of 
land,  on  which  there  used  to  be  a  large  forest  surrounded 
and  fringed  by  the  Sierra  Madre  mountains  on  the 
east,  *and  guarded  by  the  active  Taal  volcano  on  the 
south.  This  volcano,  which  is  on  a  small  lake,  is  said 
to  be  always  looking  toward  the  east,  shouting  with  his 
big  mouth  the  name  of  Buan  Buan,  a  very  beautiful 
nymph  who  dwelt  once  in  this  deep  forest.  The  large 
trees  formed  towering  pillars,  the  vines  and  moss  that 
grew  wild,  together  with  the  blooming  flowers,  were 
ornaments  of  her  court.  The  birds,  the  insects,  and  all 
kinds  of  animals  were  her  subjects. 

The  people  who  live  now  in  this  land  say  that  in 
the  beginning  of  the  world  there  was  no  such  thing  as 
the  moon  that  shines  at  night.  They  assert  that  the 
origin  of  the  moon  came  in  this  wise : 

Many  thousands  of  years  ago,  when  the  beautiful 
nymph  Buan  was  in  her  court,  a  warlike  tribe  settled 
on  her  land  of  enjoyment.  The  invaders  began  to  cul- 
tivate the  rich  soil  of  this  place.  Buan,  seeing  that 
her  flowers  would  be  destroyed  and  her  birds  driven 
away,  fled  toward  the  west  in  grief.     On  the  sea  she 


THE  PBIMITIVE-KELIGIOUS  GBOUP  17 

saw  a  little  banca  into  which  she  climbed  and  in  which 
she  drifted  along  until  she  came  to  an  island  near  where 
the  Stin  sleeps. 

One  afternoon  when  the  Sun  was  about  to  hide  his 
last  rays,  he  was  met  by  the  beautiful  nymph,  who  at 
once  said  to  him,  **0  Sun,  bear  me  with  you,  and  I 
will  be  your  faithful  wife  forever/'  Without  hesita- 
tion or  doubt,  the  gallant  Sun,  who  had  been  shining 
over  the  earth  with  open  eyes  looking  for  a  wife,  took 
Buan  under  his  golden  arm,  and  they  together,  as  true 
lovers,  departed. 

The  Arch-Queen  of  the  Nymphs,  ever  quarrelsome 
and  jealous,  seeing  the  departure  of  Buan,  sent  light- 
ning and  hurled  thunderbolts  after  the  two  fleeing  lov- 
ers. Buan,  who  was  peacefully  slumbering  on  the 
breast  of  her  lover,  fell  down  into  the  water.  The  Sun 
in  his  fright  ran  away,  and  continued  his  course  as 
usual.  Pitied  by  the  gods  Buan  did  not  drown,  but 
floated  on  the  foam  of  the  sea.  The  Sun  lighted  the 
world  the  next  morning  with  a  great  deal  of  heat  and 
sorrow  in  his  eyes,  searching  for  his  lost  sweetheart. 
Buan,  who  was  hidden  in  the  foam  that  floated  on  the 
sea,  did  not  come  out  until  evening.  By  that  time  Sun 
had  retired  to  his  wonderful  cave  beneath  the  ocean. 
Buan  wandered  about  until  finally  she  saw  a  glittering 
light  within  the  waves.  In  her  fright  she  cried  aloud. 
The  Sun,  who  was  suddenly  awakened  from  his 
cave  by  her  grief,  saw  her.  With  a  satisfied  heart  he 
took  her  into  his  cave,  where  they  dwelt  for  a  whole 
night.  They  sat  and  talked  about  their  love.  The  Sun 
taught  her  how  to  travel  across  the  sky.  However,  he 
asked  Buan  not  to  follow  him  in  any  of  his  journeys. 


18  TYPES  OF  PKOSE  NARRATIVES 

One  afternoon  Buan  "was  sitting  before  the  door  of 
the  cave  waiting  for  her  lover.  Longing  and  sentiment 
grew  strong  in  her,  and  she  remembered  the  past  days 
when  she  had  lived  in  her  forest  court.  This  state  of 
mind  made  her  come  out  of  the  cave,  and  she  rode  on 
the  air  by  magic.  For  fifteen  successive  nights  she  did 
this,  yet  she  could  not  see  her  old  hom€.  Finally  she 
asked  her  husband  to  bear  her  across  heaven  in  order 
that  she  might  see  her  home.  The  next  morning  the 
Sun  took  Buan  on  his  back,  and  they  sailed  across  the 
sky.  The  world  became  dark,  for  the  sun*eould  not  then 
well  illuminate  the  earth.  The  gods  were  astonished. 
The  Arch-Queen  of  the  Nymphs  sent  a  storm  of  wind 
and  rain,  which  made  Buan  turn  into  a  soft  brilliant 
mass  of  light..  She  was  to  be  witH  her  husband  but  once 
every  thirty  days.  She  was  also  punished  by  not  being 
allowed  to  show  herself  entirely  every  night.  She  could 
not  sail  across  heaven  for  more  than  thirteen  or  fourteen 
days  at  a  time.  —Emanuel  Baja. 

TBIBAL  MYTH 
The  First  Oocoanut  Tree  and  the  Creation  of  Man 

There  were  three  gods,  Bathala,  Ulilangkalulua,  and 
Galangkalulua.  Bathala,  a  very  large  giant,  ruled  the 
earth;  Ulilangkalulua,  a  very  large  snake,  ruled  the 
clouds;  and  Galangkalulua,  a  winged  head,  wandered 
from  place  to  place.  In  fact,  each  of  these  gods  thought 
that  he  was  the  only  living  being  in  the  universe. 

The  earth  was  composed  of  hard  rocks.  There  were 
no  seas  and  no  oceans.  There  were  also  no  plants  and 
no  animals.    It  was  indeed  a  very  lonely  place.    Bathala, 


THE  PRIMITIVE-BELIGIOUS  GROUP  19 

its  true  inhabitant,  had  often  wanted  to  have  some  com- 
panions, but  he  wondered  how  he  could  provide  these 
companions  with  food,  drini,  and  shelter  when  there 
was  nothing  on  the  earth  but.  rocks. 

What  Was  true  of  Bathala  was  also  true  of  Ulilaag- 
kalulua.  In  his  kingdom  Ulilangkalulua  saw  nothing 
but  white  clouds.  His  solitary  condition  led  him  to 
visit  other  places.  He  often  came  down  to  the  earth 
and  enjoyed  himself  climbing  high  mountains  and  en- 
tering deep  caves. 

As  he  was  at  the  top  of  a  very  high  hill  one  day, 
he  saw  some  one  sitting  on  a  large  stone  down  below 
him.  He  was  very  greatly  amazed  and  it  was  a  very 
long  time  before  he  could  speak.  At  last  he  said,  ''Sir, 
tell  me  who  you  are." 

**I  am  Bathala,  the  ruler  of  the  universe,"  answered 
the  god.  Ulilangkalulua  was  filled  with  anger  when  he 
heard  these  words.  He  approached  Bathala  and  said, 
'*If  you  declare  yourself  to  be  the  ruler  of  all  things,  I 
challenge  you  to  combat." 

A  long  struggle  took  place,  and  after  the  fighting 
had  continued  about  three  hours  Ulilangkalulua  was 
slain.    Bathala  burned  his  body  near  his  habitation. 

Not  many  years  after  this  event  Galangkalulua,  the 
wandering  god,  happened  to  find  Bathala 's  house.  Ba- 
thala received  him  and  treated  him  kindly.  Thus,  they 
lived  together  for  many  years  as  true  friends. 

Unfortunately,  Galangkalulua  became  sick.  Bathala 
did  not  sleep  day  and  night  for  taking  care  of  his. friend. 
When  Galangkalulua  was  about  to  die,  he  called  Bathala 
and  said,  ''You  have  been  very  kind  to  m^,  and  I  have 
nothing  to  repay  your  kindness  with.    But  if  you  will 


20  TYPES  OF  PKOSE  NARRATIVES 

do  what  I  tell  you,  there  is  a  way  in  which  I  can  benefit 
you.  You  once  told  me  that  you  had  planned  to  create 
creatures  of  the  same  appearance  as  you  in  order  that 
you  might  have  subjects  and  companions,  and  that  you 
had  not  been  successful  because  you  did  not  know  how 
you  could  supply  them  with  all  the  necessary  things. 
Now,  when  I  die,  bury  my  body  in  Ulilangkalulua's 
grave.  In  this  grave  will  appear  the  thing  that  will 
satisfy  you.'' 

Bathala  did  what  Galangkalulua  told  him,  and  Ga- 
langkalulua's  promise  was  fulfilled.  From  the  grave 
grew  a  plant,  whose  nut  contained  water  and  meat.  Ba- 
thala was  very  anxious  to  examine  the  different  parts 
of  the  tree  because  he  had  never  seen  such  a  thing  be- 
fore. He  took  a  nut  and  husked  it.  He  found  that  its 
inner  skin  was  hard  and  that  the  nut  itself  resembled 
the  head  of  his  friend,  Galangkalulua.  It  had  two  eyes, 
a  flat  nose,  and  a  round  mouth.  Bathala  then  looked  at 
the  tree  itself  and  discovered  that  its  leaves  were  really 
the  wings  of  Galangkalulua  and  its  trunk  the  body  of  his 
enemy,  Ulilangkalulua. 

Bathala  was  now  free  to  carry  out  his  plan.  He 
created  the  first  man  and  woman.  He  built  a  house 
for  them,  the  roof  and  walls  of  which  were  made  of 
the  leaves  of  the  cocoanut  and  the  posts  of  which  were 
cocoanut  tree  trunks.  Thus  lived  happily  under  the 
cocoanut  palm  this  couple  for  many  years  until  the 
whole  world  was  crowded  with  their  children.  These 
children  still  use  the  cocoanut  for  food  and  clothing — 
the  leaves  for  making  mats,  hats,  and  brooms,  and  the 
fiber  for  rop^and  other  things. 

— ^Manuel  Reyes. 


THE  PRIMITIVE-KELIGIOUS  GBOUP  21 

OBIOINAL  UYTR 
The  Lotus 

Long  ago,  when  the  world  was  young,  the  Nile  loved 
a  maiden.  She  was  Isis,  daughter  of  a  hundred  stars, 
who,  as  she  nightly  climbed  the  dark  pinnacle  of  cloud, 
drew  her  silver  drapery  across  the  stream's  dark  bosom. 
Many  were  the  sighs  he  breathed  throughout  the  long 
nights — ^but  Isis  heard  him  not;  for  the  wind  had  told 
her  of  Osiris,  Osiris  the  beautiful,  the  well-beloved,  who 
daily  waked  the  dreaming  earth  with  his  warm  kiss. 
And  afterwards  Mira,  the  great  Star-Mother,  bending 
from  her  gleaming  throne,  had  spoken  of  Osiris  and 
his  glittering  steeds,  while  Isis  listening,  yearned  for 
him  whom  she  had  never  seen,  whose  radiance  was 
brighter  even  than  that  of  Nefra-the-fire-bearer,  who, 
once  in  a  century,  flashed  through  the  still  heavens.  So 
Isis  heeded  not  the  Nile,  moaning  at  her  feet,  for  her 
eyes  were  ever  bent  on  the  rim  of  the  world,  whence 
would  come  in  rosy  haste  the  heralds  of  Osiris. 

But  one  morning,  when  the  starry  sisters  were  flee- 
ing, one  by  one,  to  the  silent  underworld,  Isis  stayed 
in  the  dark  cloudland.  The  night  winds  called  her  to 
hasten,  but  she  heard  them  not,  and  stood  waiting — 
while  above  the  eastern  horizon  rose  the  Hours,  streak- 
ing the  heavens  with  their  amber  veils,  and  borne  along 
behind  them,  Osiris  himself,  more  radiant  than  her 
dreams.  But  Osiris,  glad  in  the  greetings  of  the  jubilant 
earth,  saw  only  a  star-maiden  lingering  in  her  pale  robes 
on  the  borders  of  the  forbidden  Kingdom.  Catching  up 
a  barbed  shaft,  he  hurled  it  shrieking  through  the  air 
— ^and  Isis  fell. 

The  winds  fled  in  horror  from  the  earth ;  the  air 


22  TYPES  OF  PKOSE  NABEATIVES 

shuddered^  and  shrank  away;  but  the  Nile,  roaming  in 
agony  through  the  fields,  stretched  out  his  mighty  arms 
and,  with  a  great  cry,  gathered  the  lifeless  star-maiden 
to  his  bosom.  And  there,  where  Isis  fell,  rose  a  starry 
flower,  pale,  but  with  the  stain  of  the  dawn  in  its  heart. 

—Ida  P.  Treat. 

II.    The  Legend 

Historically  the  legend  may  or  may  not  be  a  later 
development  than  the  m5''th.  The  bards  may  have 
Myth  and  ascribed  the  fanciful  deeds  of  the  gods  to 
legend  their  tribal  heroes,  or  they  may  have 
compared  elevated  their  tribal  heroes  into  gods  by 
exaggerating  actual  adventures  into  far-reaching  phe- 
nomena. For  our  present  study  the  descent  is  imma- 
terial ;  the  distinction  is  all.  In  the  myth  the  chief 
actors  are  gods;  in  the  legend,  men— men  endowed 
with  superhuman  strength  often,  to  he  sure,  but  still 
men,  though  the  favorites  of  the  gods.  The  course  of 
events  in  the  typical  myth  is  pure  and  absolute  imagi- 
nation; the  course  of  events  in  the  typical  legend  is 
somewhat  held  down  by  facts.  When  the  deeds  are 
magnified  or  wholly  fanciful,  the  characters  are  semi- 
historical  ;  when  the  events  or  places  are  historical,  the 
chief  actors  are  generally  imaginary. 

In  the  myth-legend,  or  saga,  the  deeds  transcend  the 

ordinarily  credible  and  the  heroes  are  often  directed 

by  superhuman  agencies.    Perhaps  the  old- 
Saira 

est  examples  of  this  kind  are  those  recorded 

in  the  Sanscrit  *'Mahabharata"  and  '*Ramayana'!,  and 

the  Persian  *  *  Shah  Nameh. ' '    In  the  last  occurs  the  beau- 

1  story  of  Sohrab  and  Rustam,  who  lived  six  hun- 


THE  PRIMITIVE-BELiaiOUS  GBOUP  23 

dred  years  before  Christ.  Firdoiisi,  writing  as  late  as 
the  first  decade  of  the  eleventh  century,  was  therefore 
working  over  very  ancient  material.  Such  combinations 
likewise  of  older  tradition  and  later  writing  are  the 
Anglo-Saxon  '* Beowulf",  the  French  *' Chanson  de  Ro- 
land", the  Spanish  "Cid",  the  Italian  ''Orlando  Puri- 
oso"  (which  is  the  French  story  adapted),  the  German 
' '  Hildebrand  ",  ''  Waltharilied ' ',  and  * '  Nibelungen 
Not",  and  the  Icelandic  **Grettir  the  Strong"  and 
'*Volsunga  Saga".  The  **Volsunga  Saga"  as  we  have 
it  today  is  prose  w;ith  some  songs  from  the  **  Elder 
Edda".  Legend  in  its  written  form  as  a  composition 
type  we  think  of  as  prose,  though  it  may  be  verse,  or 
prose  and  verse  combined. 

To  the  early  church  a  legend  meant  the  narrative  of 
the  life  of  a  saint  or  a  martyr,  especially  the  account 
of  his  triumphs  over  temptation  and  of  the  miracles  he 
witnessed  or  performed.  Even  to-day  in  some  monas- 
teries such  stories  are  read  at  iheals  while  the  gajnt 
monks  eat.  It  is  interesting  to  note  that  the  legends 
church  distinguishes  between  legenda,  things  to  be 
read,  and  credenda,  things  to  be  believed.  What  ap- 
pears to  be  the  earliest  of  these  legends  and  the  model 
of  the  others  is  said  to  have  been  written  by  St.  John 
of  Damascus,  a  monk  of  Syria,  who  lived  in  the  eighth 
century.  It  is  called  **Barlaam  and  Josaphat"  and 
contains  besides  the  lives  of  the  prince  and  the  prophet 
many  beautiful  parables,  one  of  which  Shakespeare 
immortalized  in  the  casket  scene  in  'the  **  Merchant  of 
Venice".  The  life  of  Josaphat  is  in  turn  said  to  be 
the  legendary  life  of  the  Buddha.  There  are  many  beau- 
tiful Celtic  and  Anglo-Saxon  Christian  stories  of  this 


24  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

type.  In.  the  Cynewulfian  group  of  Anglo-Saxon  Lives 
of  the  Saints,  the  ** Andreas"  is  considered  very  fine. 
With  its  account  of  St.  Andrew's  miraculous  rescue  of 
St.  Matthew  from  prison  among  the  heathen  is  a 
sturdy,  realistic  description  of  a  stormy  voyage  on 
northern  seas.  **The  Golden  Legend'*,  published  by 
Caxton  in  1483,  is  a  translation  of  a  celebrated  nledie- 
val  collection  of  lives  of  the  greater  saints,  composed  in 
Latin  by  Jacobus  de  Voragine,  a  Dominican  archbishop 
of  Genoa,  in  the  thirteenth  century. 

The  great  English  legendary  history  and  a  great 
source-book  of  English  literary  legend  is  the  Historia 
Geoffrey  of  Britonum  of  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth.  Besides 
Monmouth  giving  us  the  original  story  of  Lear  and 
many  other  things  in  his  record  of  British  rulers  down 
to  the  Saxon  Invasion,  this  twelfth  century  author, 
building  on  the  meager  basis  of  an  unknown  Nennius 
and  possibly  a  cleric's  version  of  Welsh  traditions, 
started  the  magnificent  Arthurian  cycle  on  its  way. 
This  Latin  account  joined  the  great  stream  of  conti- 
nental legendary  romance,  added  to  it  and  took  from  it, 
and  came  back  into  English  in  Layamon's  ''Brut"  in 
the  form  of  a  series  of  metrical  legends  for  the  common 
people. 

That  most  original  and  enchanting  of  all  the  medie- 
val legendary  romance  books,  Malory's  '*Morte  Dar- 
Legendary  thur",  stands  between  the  old  and  the  new 
romance  English  fiction  in  that  it  has  the  content  of 
the  one  and  the  fofm  of  the  other.  In  it  were  gathered 
up  the  .religious  element  (that  had  come  in  with  the 
tradition  of  Joseph  of  Arimathaea),  the  love  element 
(of  the  Launcelot-Quinevere  stories),  and  the  national 


THE  PRIMITIVE-RELIGIOUS  GROUP  25 

element  (Arthur,  his  wonderful  Excalibur  and  hia 
knights),  and  so  emphasized,  so  incomparably  set  forth, 
so  shaken  together,  if  you  please,  that  they  combined 
and  stayed  together  ever  afterwards.  On  the  form 
side,  this  work  is  prose  and  it  is  art — ^the  first  English 
prose  fiction,  so  announced  and  so  taken.  It  is  literary 
legend.  An  artist  conscious  of  his  art  offered  the 
material  not  as  history  or  religion,  but  as  a  thing  of 
beauty.  The  preface  states,  **And  for  to  pass  the  time 
this  book  shall  be  pleasant  to  read  in,  but  for  to  give 
faith  and  belief  that  all  is  true  that  is  contained  herein, 
ye  be  at  your  liberty." 

When  stories  such  as  these,  either  by  an  aim  at  his- 
tory or  at  art,  emphasize  what  has  been  believed,  they 
are  classed  as  legend ;  when  they  emphasize  magic  and 
combine  history  in  a  riotous  way  for  the  mere  sake  of 
astonishing,  they  are  classed  as  wonder  tales. 

While  on  the  one  side  legend  shades  off  into  myth 
and  wonder  tales,  on  the  other  it  shades  off  into  anec- 
dote. A  tendency  to  write  legend  instead  of  fact  is 
always  present.  As  soon  as  a  man  or  a  place  becomes 
prominent,  fictitious  stories  begin  to  spring  up,  founded 
not  only  on  what  was  done,  but  also  on  what  might 
have  been  done.  But  to  persist,  a  legendary  account 
must  be  true  to  the  character  and  traits  of  the  hero 
or  town  or  tribe  or  race  with  which  it  deals ;  at  least, 
it  must  be  true  to  the  popular  conception  of  the  charac- 
ter. Though  innumerable,  the  versions  of  the  Faust 
story,  for  example,  are  nevertheless  essentially  con- 
sistent. Typical  legends  shading  off  into  history  and 
anecdote  are  those  about  AVilliam  Tell,  Robert  the 
Bruce,  Alfred  the  Great,  John  Smith  and  Pocahontas, 


26  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NABRATIVES 

and  many  of  the  popular  tales  about  Columbus,  Wadi- 
iugton,  Lincoln,  and  Rizal. 

There  are  modern  literary  legends.  An  exquisite 
legend  of  a  place  is  **Eip  Van  Winkle ''  by  Washington 
Modem  Ii^viug.  A  terrific  French  novel  is  founded 
literaxy  on  the  legendary  idea  of  the  Wandering 
legends  j^^^  ^  wholesome  boys'  story  that  is  often 
mistaken  for  history  is  ''The  Man  Without  a  Country." 
Selma  Lagerlof ,  who  was  given  the  Nobel  prize  in  1909 
for  the  most  original  piece  of  literature,  has  w^ritten 
among  others  a  saint's  legend  about. a  hermit  who  was 
won  to  brotherly  love  by  a  pair  of  birds  that  built  a 
nest  and  hatched  their  young  in  his  outstretched  palms 
as,  keeping  a  vow,  he  stood  day  and  night  praying 
heaven  to  take  vengeance  and  destroy  the  sinful  world. 
Allied  to  this  species  is  one  of  Count  Tolstoy's  most 
widely  read  stories.  It  is  built  upon  an  idea  current  in 
all  races  and  appearing  in  many  legends ;  namely,  of  an 
angel  sent  by  God  to  live  a  while  among  men.  But 
Tolstoy,  with  his  fervent  devotion  to  the  good  of  the 
people,  has  turned  his  narrative  into  a  parable,  and 
calls  it  *'What  Men  Live  By."  Another  beautiful  re- 
ligious narrative,  an  art  legend  tangent  to  tradition,  is 
Henry  Van  Dyke's  ''The  Other  Wise  Man." 

It  is  easy  for  one  to  select  a  place  legend.  Every 
town  in  the  world,  I  suppose,  has  stories  connected  with 
it  that  are  only  typically  true.  Almost  every 
Sctand^'  Pi'^^i^^nt  topographical  feature  has  an  ex- 
record  a  planatory  narrative  current  about  it.  Take 
CTowtti^^  any  of  these  popular  tales  concerning  the 
cliffs,  river,  mountain  peak,  spring,  lake, 
gully,  or  pictured  rocks  of  yoiu*  neighborhood  and 


THE  PRIMITIVE-RELIGIOUS  GROUP  gy 

you  have  a  legend,  so  long  as  your  story  confines  itself 
to  that  particular  spot,  and  does  not  let  its  subject 
be  emphatically  the  result  of  great  natural  forces  or  of 
the  cause  of  all  subsequent  similar  formations.-  In 
other  words,  one  must  remember  that  the  basis  of 
legend  is  particular  incident,  while  that  of  myth  is 
universal  phenomenon;  the  content  of  legend  is  exag- 
gerated history,  while  the  content  of  myth  is  fanciful 
science.  All  one. needs  to  do  to  record  such  a  place 
legend  is  to  arrange  the  details  in  a  coherent  fashion 
and  to  write  out  the  sentences  in  good,  clear,  simple 
English,  sticking  as  close  to  the  original  oral  account 
as  correct  syntax  will  allow.  If  one  cares  to  write 
about  people  instead  of  places,  one  follows  in  general 
the  same  directions,  being  sure  not  to  fall  into  mere 
anecdote  or  incident,  but  to  have  a  full,  complete 
account.  , 

To  write  a  literary  art  legend,  an  author  selects  in 
history  some  period  that  he  likes  very  much  or  some 
hero  or  heroine  he  has  always  admired,  and 
notes  down  a  number  of  facts  that  are  con-  write 
nected  with  one  another  and  with  his  sub-  a  legend, 
ject;    then   he    lets    his   imagination    loose 
upon  them.    He  uses  terms  and  expressions  of  the  age 
of  which  he  is  writing ;  phrases  that  now  appear  quaint 
add  a  flavor  of  reality  to  the  tale.    But  he  is  careful, 
however,  not  to  misuse  words  and  thus  commit  what 
the  critics  call  anachronism,   by  putting  the  idioms 
peculiar  to  one  age  or  one  people  into  the  mouth  of 
another.    An  occasional  special  touch  is  good,  but  too 
much  straining  for  effect  |poils  a  story.    He  gets  rather 
into  the  mood  of  simple  faith  in  greatness  and  good- 


28  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NAEEATIVE8 

ness,  and  tells  of  brave  deeds  and  generous  actions  that 
might  well  have  happened.  Dramatic  truth  there  must 
be ;  literal  truth,  not  necessarily.  A  working  definition 
runs  somewhat  like  this : 

Legend  is  a  narrative  partly  true  and  partly  imagi- 
nary, about  a  particular  person,  event,  place  or  nat\iral 
Working  feature;  a  story  that  has  the  semblance  of 
definition  history,  but  is  in  reality  almost  altogether 
fanciful,  since  the  basic  fact  is  amplified,  abridged,  or 
wholly  changed  at  the  will  of  the  narrator. 

Kenach's  Little  Woman 

As  the  holy  season  of  Lent  drew  nigh  the  Abbot 
Kenach  felt  a  longing  such  as  a  bird  of  passage  feels 
in  the  south  when  the  first  little  silvery  buds  on  the 
willow  begin  here  to  break  their  ruddy  sheaths,  and  the 
bird  thinks  tomorrow  it  will  be  time  to  fly  over  seas  to 
the  land  where  it  builds  its  .nest  in  pleasant  croft  or 
under  the  shelter  of  homely  eaves.  And  Kenach  said, 
"Levdbo  oculos—I  will  lift  up  mine  eyes  unto  the  hills 
from  whence  cometh  my  help,'*  for  every  year  it  was 
his  custom  to  leave  his  abbey  and  fare  through  the 
woods  to  the  hermitage  on  the  mountainside,  so  that  he 
might  spend  the  forty  days  in  fasting  and  prayer  in  the 
heart  of  solitude. 

Now  on  the  day  which  is  called  the  Wednesday 
of  Ashes  he  set  out,  but  first  he  heard  the  mass  of 
remembrance  and  led  his  monks  to  the  altar  steps,  and 
knelt  there  in  great  humility  to  let  the  priest  sign  his 
forehead  with  a  cross  of  ashes.  And  on  the  forehead 
of  each  of  the  monks  the  ashes  were  smeared  in  the 


THE  PBIMITIVE-BELIGIOUS  GROUP  29 

form  of  a  cross,  and  each  time  the  priest  made  the 
sign  he  repeated  the  words,  **  Remember,  man,  that  thou 
art  dust,  and  unto  dust  thou  shalt  return/' 

So  with  the  ashes  still  in  his  brow  and  wi^h  the 
remembrance  of  the  end  of  earthly  days  in  his  soul, 
he  bent  his  steps  towards  the  hermitage;  and  as  he 
was  now  an  aged  man  and  nowise  strong,  Diarmait,  one 
of  the  younger  brethren,  accompanied  him  in  case  any 
mischance  should  befall. 

They  passed  through  the  cold  forest,  where  greei* 
there  was  none,  unless  it  were  the  patches  of  moss  and 
the  lichens  on  the  rugged  tree  trunks  and  tufts  of 
last  year's  grass,  but  here  and  there  the  white  blossoms 
of  the  snowdrops  peered  out.  The  dead  gray  leaves 
and  dry  twigs  crackled  and  snapped  under  their  feet 
with  such  a  noise  as  a  wood  fire  makes  when  it  is  newly 
lighted ;  and  that  was  all  the  warmth  they  had  on  their 
wayfaring. 

The  short  February  day  was  closing  in  as  they 
climbed  among  the  boulders  and  withered  bracken  on 
the  mountainside,  and  at  last  reached  the  entrance  of 
a  cavern  hollowed  in  the  rock  and  fringed  with  ivy. 
This  was  the  hermitage.  The  Abbot  hung  his  bell 
on  a  thick  ivy  bough  in  the  mouth  of  the  caves;  and 
they  knelt  and  recited  vespers  and  compline ;  and  thrice 
the  Abbot  struck  the  bell  to  scare  away  the  evil  spirits 
of  the  night ;  and  they  entered  and  lay  down  to  rest. 

Hard  was  the  way  of  their  sleeping;  for  they  lay 
not  on  wool  or  on  down,  neither  on  heather  or  bracken, 
nor  yet  on  dry  leaves,  but  their  sides  came  against  the 
cold  stone,  and  under  the  head  of  each  there  was  a 
stone  for  pillow.    But  being  weary  with  the  long  jour- 


30  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

ney,  they  slept  sound  and  felt  nothing  of  the  icy  mouth 
of  the  wind  blowing  down  the  mountainside. 

Within  an  hour  of  daybreak,  when  the  moon  was 
setting,  they  were  awakened  by  the  wonderful  singing 
of  a  bird,  and  they  rose  for  matins  and  strove  not  to 
listen,  but  so  strangely  sweet  was  the  sound  in  the 
keen  moonlight  morning  that  they  could  not  forbear. 
The  moon  set,  and  still  in  the  dark  sang  the  bird,  and 
the  gray  light  came,  and  the  bird  ceased;  and  when 
was  white  day  they  saw  that  all  the  ground  and  every 
stalk  of  bracken  was  hoary  with  frost,  and  every  ivy 
leaf  was  crusted  white  round  the  edge,  but  within  the 
edge  it  was  all  glossy  green, 

**What  bird  is  this  that  sings  so  sweet  before  day 
in  the  bitter  coldt"  said  the  Abbot.  *' Surely  no  bird 
at  all,  but  an  Angel  from  heaven  waking  us  from  the 
death  of  sleep." 

**It  is  the  blackbird,  Domine  Abbas,''  said  the 
young  monk;  ** often  they  sing  thus  in  February,  how- 
ever cold  it  may  be." 

'*0  soul,  0  Diarmait,  is  it  not  wonderful  that  the 
senseless  small  creatures  should  praise  God  so  sweetly 
in  the  dark,  and  in  the  light  before  the  dark,  while  we 
are  fain  to  lie  warm  and  forget  His  praise?"  And 
afterwards  he  said,  **  Gladly  could  I  have  listened  to 
that  singing,  even  till  tomorrow  was  a  day;  and  yet  it 
was  but  the  singing  of  a  little  earth  wrapped  in  a  hand- 
ful of  feathers.  0  soul,  tell  me  what  it  must  be  to 
listen  to  the  singing  of  an  Angel,  a  portion  of  heaven 
wrapped  in  the  glory  of  God's  love!" 

Of  the  forty  days  thirty  went  by,  and  oftentimes 
now,  when  no  wind  blew,  it  was  bright  and  delight- 


THE  PEIMITIVE-KELIGIOUS  GROUP  31 

some  among  the  rocks,  for  the  sun  was  gaining  strength, 
and  the  days  were  growing  longer,  and  the  brown  trees 
were  being  speckled  with  numberless  tiny  buds  of  white 
and  pale  green,  and  wild  flowers  were  springing  be- 
tween the  boulders  and  through  the  mountain  turf. 

Hard  by  the  cave  there  was  a  wall  of  rock  covered 
with  ivy,  and  as  Diarmait  chanced  to  walk  near  it,  a 
brown  bird  darted  out  from  among  the  leaves.  The 
young  monk  looked  at  the  place  from  which  it  had 
flown,  and  behold!  among  the  leaves  and  the  hairy 
sinews  of  the  ivy  there  was  a  nest  lined  with  grass, 
and  in  the  nest  there  were  three  eggs — ^pale  green  with 
reddish  spots.  And  Diarmait  knew  the  bird  and  knew 
the  eggs,  and  he  told  the  Abbot,  who  came  noiselessly, 
and  looked  with  a  great  love  at  the  open  house  and 
the  three  eggs  of  the  mother  blackbird. 

**Let  us  not  walk  too  near,  my  son,'*  he  said,  **lest 
we  scare  the  mother  from  her  brood,  and  so  silence 
beforehand  some  of  the  music  of  the  cold  hours  before 
the  day."  And  he  lifted  his  hand  and  blessed  the 
nest  and  the  bird,  saying,  **And  He  shall  bless  thy 
bread  and  thy  water.''  After  that  it  was  very  seldom 
they  went  near  the  ivy. 

Now  after  days  of  clear  and  benign  weather  a  shrill 
wind  broke  out  from  beneath  the  North  Star,  and 
brought  with  it  snow  and  sleet  and  piercing  cold.  And 
the  woods  howled  for  distress  of  the  storm,  and  the 
gray  stones  of  the  mountain  chattered  with  discom- 
fort. Harsh  cold  and  sleeplessness  were  their  lot  in 
the  cave,  and  as  he  shivered,  the  Abbot  bethought  him 
of  the  blackbird  in  her  nest,  and  of  the  wet  flakes 
driving  in  between  the  leaves  of  the  ivy  and  stinging 


32  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NAKRATIVES 

her  brown  wings  and  patient  bosom.  And  lifting  his 
head  from  his  pillow  of  stone  he  prayed  the  Lord  of 
the  elements  to  have  the  bird  in  His  gentle  care,  say- 
ing, 

*'How  excellent  is  Thy  loving  kindness,  0  God! 
therefore  the  children  of  men  put  their  trust  under  the 
shadow  of  Thy  wings." 

Then  after  a  little  while  he  said,  **Look  out  into 
the  night,  0  son,  and  tell  me  if  yet  the  storm  be 
abated.*' 

And  Diarmait,  shuddering,  went  to  the  mouth  of  the 
cavern,  and  stood  there  gazing  and  calling  in  a  low 
voice,  ''Domine  Abbas!  My  Lord  Abbot!  My  Lord 
Abbot!" 

Kenach  rose  quickly  and  went  to  him,  and  as  they 
looked  out  the  sleet  beat  on  their  faces,  but  in  the 
midst  of  the  storm  there  was  a  space  of  light,  as  though 
it  were  moonshine,  and  the  light  streamed  from  an 
Angel,  who  stood  near  the  wall  of  rock  with  outspread 
wings,  and  sheltered  the  blackbird's  nest  from  the  win- 
try blast. 

And  the  monks  gazed  at  the  shining  loveliness  of 
the  Angel,  till  the  wind  fell  and  the  snow  ceased  and 
the  light  faded  away  and  the  sharp  stars  came  out 
and  the  night  was  still. 

Now  at  sundown  of  the  day  that  followed,  when 
the  Abbot  was  in  the  cave,  the  young  monk,  standing 
among  the  rocks,  saw  ai^proaching  a  woman  who  car- 
ried a  child  in  her  arms;  and  crossing  himself,  he  cried 
aloud  to  her,  **Come  not  any  nearer;  turn  thy  face  to 
the  forest,  and  go  down." 

**Nay,"  replied  the  woman,  *'for  we  seek  shelter 


THE  PRIMITIVE-RELIGIOUS  GROUP  33 

for  the  night,  and  food  and  the  solace  of  fire  for  the 
little  one." 

**6o  down,  go  down,'*  cried  Diarmait;  *'no  woman 
may  come  to  this  hermitage." 

**How  canst  thou  say  that,  O  monkt"  said  the 
woman.  *'Was  the  Lord  Christ  any  worse  than  thou! 
Christ  came  to  redeem  woman  no  less  than  to  redeem 
man.  Not  less  did  He  suffer  for  the  sake  of  woman 
than  for  the  sake  of  man.  Women  gave  service  and 
tendance  to  Him  and  His  Apostles.  A  woman  it  was 
who  bore  Him,  else  had  men  been  left  forlorn.  It  was 
a  man  who  betrayed  Him  with  a  kiss;  and  woman  it 
was  who  washed  His  feet  with  tears.  It  was  a  man 
who  smote  Him  with  a  reed,  but  a  woman  who  broke 
the  alabaster  box  of  precious  ointment.  It  was  a  man 
who  thrice  denied  Him;  a  woman  stood  by  His  cross. 
It  was  a  woman  to  whom  He  first  spoke  on  Easter  mori, 
but  a  man  thrust  his  hand  into  His  side  and  put  his 
finger  in  the  prints  of  the  nails  before  he  would  be- 
lieve. And  not  less  than  men  do  women  enter  the 
heavenly  kingdom.  Why,  then,  shouldst  thou  drive 
my  little  child  and  me  from  thy  hermitage  and  thy  hos- 
pitality?" 

Then  Kenach,  who  had  heard  all  that  was  said, 
came  forth  from  the  cave,  and  blessed  the  woman.  **Well 
hast  thou  spoken,  0  daughter;  come,  and  bring  the? 
small  child  with  thee."  And  turning  to  the  young 
monk,  he  said,  *'0  soul,  0  son,  0  Diarmait,  did  not 
God  send  His  Angel  out  of  high  heaven  to  shelter  the 
mother  bird?  And  was  not  that,  too,  a  little  woman 
in  feathers!  But  now  hasten,  and  gather  wood  and 
leaves,  and  strike  fire  from  the  flint,  and  make  a  hearth 


34  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

before  the  cave,  that  the  woman  may  rest  and  the  boy 
have  the  comfort  of  the  bright  flame/' 

•This  was  soon  done,  and  by  the  fire  sat  the  woman 
eating  a  little  barley  bread;  but  the  child,  who  had 
no  will  to  eat,  came  round  to  the  old  man,  and  held 
out  two  soft  hands  to  him.  And  the  Abbot  caught  him 
up  from  the  ground  to  his  breast,  and  kissed  his  golden 
head,  saying,  ''God  bless  thee,  sweet  little  son,  and 
give  thee  a  good  life  and  a  happy,  and  strength  of  thy 
small  body,  and  if  it  be  His  holy  will,  length  of  glad 
days ;  and  ever  mayest  thou  be  a  gladness  and  deep  joy 
to  thy  mother/' 

Then,  seeing  that  the  woman  was  strangely  clad  in 
an  outland  garb  of  red  and  blue  and  that  she  was 
tall,  with  a  golden-hued  skin  and  olive  eyes,  arched, 
very  black  eyebrows,  aquiline  nose,  and  a  rosy  mouth, 
he  said,  '*  Surely  0  daughter,  thou  art  not  of  this  land 
of  Erinn  in  the  sea,  but  art  come  out  of  the  great  world 
beyond?" 

** Indeed,  then,  we  have  traveled  far,''  replied  the 
woman;  '*as  thou  sayest,  out  of  the  great  world  beyond. 
And  now  the  twilight  deepens  upon  us,  and  we  would 
sleep." 

**thou  shalt  sleep  safe  in  the  cave,  O  daughter,  but 
we  will  rest  here  by  the  embers.  My  cloak  of  goat's 
hair  shalt  thou  have,  and  such  dry  bracken  and  soft 
bushes  as  may  be  found." 

*- There  is  no  need,  "^^  said  the  woman,  *'mere  shelter 
is  enough,"  and  she  added  in  a  low  voice,  ** Often  has 
my  little  son  had  no  bed  wherein  he  might  lie." 

Then  she  stretched  out  her  arms  to  the  boy,  and 
once  more  the  little  one  kissed  the  Abbot,  and  as  he 


THE  PRIMITIVE.RELIGIOUS  GROUP  35 

passed  by  Diarmait  he  put  the  palms  of  his  hands 
against  the  face  of  the  young  monk,  and  said  laugh- 
ingly, *'I  do  not  think  thou  hadst  any  ill-will  to  us, 
though  thou  wert  rough  and  didst  threaten  to  drive  us 
away  into  the  woods/' 

And  the  woman  lifted  the  boy  on  her  arm,  and 
rose  and  went  towards  the  cavern;  and  when  she  was 
in  the  shadow  of  the  rocks  she  turned  towards  the 
monks  beside  the  fire  and  said,  '*My  son  bids  me  thank 
you." 

They  looked  up,  and  what  was  their  astonishment 
to  see  a  heavenly  glory  shining  about  the  woman  and 
her  child  in  the  gloom  of  the  cave.  And  in  his  left 
hand  the  child  carried  a  little  golden  image  of  the 
world,  and  round  ^^is  head  was  a  starry  radiance,  and 
his  right  hand  was  raised  in  blessing. 

For  such  a  while  as  it  takes  the  shadow  of  a  cloud 
to  run  across  a  rippling  field  of  corn,  for  so  long  the 
vision  remained;  and  then  it  melted  into  the  darkness, 
even  as  a  rainbow  melts  away  into  the  rain. 

On  his  face  fell  the  Abbot,  weeping  for  joy  beyond 
words;  but  Diarmait  was  seized  with  fear  and  trem- 
bling till  he  remembered  the  way  in  which  the  child 
had  pressed  warm  palms  against  his  face  and  forgiven 
him. 

The  story  of  these  things  was  whispered  abroad,  and 
ever  since,  in  that  part  of  Erinn  in  the  sea,  the  mother 
blackbird  is  called  Kenach's  Little  Woman. 

And  as  for  the  stone  on  which  the  fire  was  lighted 
in  front  of  the  cave,  rain  rises  quickly  from  it  in  mist, 
and  leaves  it  dry,  and  snow  may  not  lie  upon  it,  and 
even  in  the  dead  of  winter  it  is  %arm  to  touch.    And 


36  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

to  this  day  it  is  called  the  Stone  of  Holy  Companion- 
ship/' 

— William  Canton. 
*'W.  V.'s  Golden  Legend''  (Dodd,  Mead  &  Co.). 

A  Legend  of  Oapan 

In  the  early  part  of  December,  in  the  year  1889,  a 
poor  man  named  Carlos  left  the  town  whefe  he  lived  to 
go  to  Gapan,  about  twenty  miles  distant. 

Day  was  beginning  to  break  as  Carlos  reached  the 
foot  of  a  hill,  which  he  was  just  about  to  climb,  when 
he  heard  the  sound  of  music.  Looking  upward  to  find 
whence  the  sound  came,  he  saw  a  bright  white  cloud. 
From  the  center  of  this  cloud  shone  a  ray  of  light, 
forming  a  circle  in  which  were  all  the  colors  of  the 
rainbow. 

Carlos  could  scarcely  believe  his  eyes,  till  he  heard 
a  sweet  voice  call  his  name.  He  hastened  to  climb  the 
hill,  and  at  the  top  found  a  very  beautiful  woman, 
around  whom  shone  a  light  that  made  the  stones  and 
bushes  sparkle  like  gems. 

"When  the  man  had  drawn  near,  our  Blessed  Lady 
— for  it  was  she — ^told  him  that  she  wished  a  church  to 
be  built  on  that  spot,  and  bade  him  go  to  Gapan  and 
tell  this  fact  to  the  priest.  On  reaching  the  town, 
Carlos  went  straight  to  the  priest,  and  related  what 
the  Blessed  Virgin  had  confided  to  him. 

**I  believe  you,''  said  the  priest,  **but  to  be  still 
more  certain,  ask  her  who  sends  you  for  some  sign  by 
which  we  may  know  that  she  is  really  the  Mother  of 
God." 

Afterwards    Carldb   went   to   the    spot   where   the " 


THE  PSIMITIVE-BELIGIOXTS  GROtJP  37 

Blessed  Mother  was  waiting  for  him.  As  soon  as  he 
saw  her,  he  immediately  threw  himself  at  her  feet,  and 
told  her  what  the  priest  had  said.  With  great  tender- 
ness our  Lady  bade  him  come  to  her  the  next  day, 
saying  she  would  give  him  the  sign  for  which  the  priest 
had  asked. 

Carlos  came  the  next  day.  **Gk)  now,"  said  the 
Blessed  Virgin,  'Ho  the  top  of  the  hill,  and  gather  the 
roses  that  are  blooming  there.  Put  them  in  your  hand- 
kerchief, and  bring  them  to  me ;  I  will  tell  yott  what  to 
do  with  them." 

Though  Carlos  believed  that  there  were  no  roses 
there,  he  obeyed  without  A  word.  How  great,  then, 
was  his  surprise  to  find  a  garden  rich  with  flowers! 
Filling  his  handkerchief  with  roses,  he  hurried  back  to 
the  Blessed  Virgin. 

Our  Lady  took  the  r^ses  in  her  pure  hands,  and 
letting  them  drop. tack  into  the  handkerchief,  said  to 
Carlos,  ''Present  these  roses  to  the  priest,  and  say  that 
they  are  the  proof  of  the  command  I  give  you.  Do 
not  show  any  one  what  you  carry,  and  open  youi»  hand- 
kerchief only  in  the  presence  of  the  priest." 

Thanking  the  Blessed  Virgin,  Carlos  starte4  once 
more  for  the  town.  When  he  reached  the  convent  and 
was  brought  before  the  priest,  he  opened  his  handker- 
chief to  stow  the  Sign  that  was  to  proVe  his  words,  and 
fresh,  sweet-smelling  roses,  wet  with  dew,  fell  to  the 
floor,  wbaie  eat  the  handkerehief  itself  appeared  a  beau- 
tiful picture  of  the  Mother  of  <3od. 

'*The  Blessed  Virgin  is  here,"  said  the  father,  and 
then  he  knelt  before  the  picture  and  gave  praise  to 
Ood.    The  miraculous  handkerchief  was  placed  in  the 


38  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

chupqji  of  Gapan,  where  it  remained  imtil  a  suitable 

chapel  was  built  on  the  very  top  of  the  hill,  as  our  Lady 

desired 

_  ;     •     .  — TeofilQ  P.  Corpu§. 

A  Legend  of  tlie  Incas 

**We  will  rest  here  for  a  time,  Uira."  The  hollo w- 
eyedv  tired-lopkii^g  youth ,  dismounted  from  his  bugrro, 
IJwi  co^lpanion  Uira^  a  short,  swarthy-skinned  Peru- 
via|i,  turned  and  gazed  down  the  mountaiiiside  whence 
they  had  come,  upon  the  flat  roofs  of  Quito,  which 
seemed  like  a  dream  city,  qo  lovely  did  the  distance 
make  it.  **It  is.  beautiful,  is  it  n^t,  Juan?  My  home, 
the  home: of  the  Ipc^s,;  the  most. ancient  city  in  all  the 
land?:'  .  .     ;. 

**Yes,  indeed,  it  is  beautiful,  and,  Uira,  whil^  we 
Test,  yqu  shall  tell  me  a  tale  pf  your  peojde ;  some  pretty 
legend  of  the  Incas.  I  think  nothing  else  would  so 
1^o(i?oughly  refresh  me.*'  Now  Juan  could  by  no  ex-, 
ercise  of  ingenuity  have  touched  a  more  responsive 
chord  in. the  nature  of  his  friend. 

**Well,  what  ishaljl  it  be,  Juao^?  You  have  nev6r 
liee^r»d  the  story;  pf  .M^inca,  have  you?  It, may  not  be 
what  you  would  call  a  pretty  legend.;  yet  I  thiiJs  you 
would  like  it,  V  ^id  Uira,  readily  complying* 

.-'Very  well,  I  know  I  cannot  help  bul^  tojpy  it,'' 
s^id  Juan,  as  h<?  s^ttl^  himself.comiQrtably,  with  dried 
leaves  JfojT  ^. couch  sfuA  a  tree, stump  fqr  a  pillow. 

'*Well,''  began  U^a,.his  ga2»  still  on  the  town  b^low 

tbfii^-v  '•■/:  '.■".'-'  ].:• 

.,(  '/Ifim,  .yffi*>^,flot,, beginning  right;  you  sJio^W.say 

9^y^  maflj,  3p3a?rs';^afo/'     The  fincrfeatured  8paw«h 


THE  PEIMITIVEEELIGIOUS  GROUP  39 

boy  looked  mischievously  at  the  stolid  descendant  of 
the  Incas. 

**You  perhaps  have  heard/'  went  on  Uira,  discour- 
aging flippancy  by  disregarding  it,  **of  the  stoiy  of 
Attahualpa;  at  least  you  have  Imown  something  of  it 
from  the  histories  you  have  studied;  how,  before  he 
died,  the  mighty  Huayan  Capar  divided  his  kingdom 
between  his  two  sons,  Attahuaipa  and  Huascar,  half- 
brothers,  giving  to  Attahuaipa  the  northern  region, 
Quito,  which  your  geography  calls  Ecuador ;  how  Huas- 
car, arrogant  in  his  newly-acquired  greatness,  demand- 
ed tribute  from  Quito.  You  know  how  Attahuaipa  an- 
grily refused;  how  he  ci^me  at  the  head  of  a  great 
army  to  the  seat  of  his  brother's  power,  defeated  Huas* 
car,  and  taking  from  the  conquered  man  kingdom  and 
freedom,  left  him  only  his  life.  Then  the  Spaniards, 
curses  on  them  all-^ " 

*'You  forget  that  I  am  proud  of  my  Spanish  blood, 
Uira,''  the  lad  interrupted,  his  cheeks  flushing  with 
resentment. 

'*Ah,  yes,  Juan,  I  forgot.  Forgive  iny  hasty  speech 
and  unintended  insult.  But  to  go  on,  the  Spaniards, 
mad  with  lust  for  gold,  marched  with  armies  legion  in 
number.  If  you  do  not  know,  boy,  how  many  legion  is, 
look  at  the  tree  tops  above  you;  the  leaves  are  count- 
less; they  are  legion.  The  invaders,  with  the  Pizarro 
at  their  head,  burned  our  homes,  desecrated  our  temples, 
and  captured  Attahuaipa,  who,  elated  with  his  conquest, 
was  returning  to  Quito,  The  Attahuaipa,  the  records 
say,  collected  in  one  room  and  gave  the  Pizarro  the 
wealth  of  th'e  Incas ;  and  your  traditions  tell  you  that  in 
fear  of  his  own  life,  Pizarro  put  his  captive  to  death; 


40  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

This  is  the  story  of  Attahnalpa  as  you  have  been 
taught  it. 

But  I  will  now  tell  you  what  it  is  given  only  the 
few  in  whose  veins  still  flows  the  blood  of  the,  Ineas  to 
know.  Huayan  had  a  daughter  Manca,  whose  name 
is  not  written  in  the  annals.  She  was  sister  to  Atta- 
hnalpa, and  in  her  heart  was  all  the  mighty  pride  of 
the  Ineas.  Oh,  how  she  loved  the  name  of  her  race ! 
How  she  rejoiced  in  their  conquests,  their  prowess! 
How  she  delighted  to  look  upon  the  gold  in  the  temples, 
and  think  that  it  was  all  part  of  the  prosperity  of  her 
people!  There  was  a  woman,  Juan,  perhaps  not  beau- 
tiful, I  cannot  say,  well  worthy  to  bear  the  name  of  an 
Incan. 

'*How  she  wept  when  Pizarro,  with  his  Spanish 
followers,  seized  Attahualpa!  But  do  not  think  that 
it  was  for  fear  that  she  wept,  Juan.  It  was  for  in- 
jured pride;  for  sorrow  that  she  was  to  lose  her  dear- 
est friend,  her  brother. 

'*But  when  the  loyal  girl  found  that  Attahualpa, 
a  ruler,  a  conqueror  of  men,  and  most  of  all,  an  Incan, 
was  bargaining  for  his  life  with  a  roomful  of  gold  as 
the  price,  she  prayed  to  the  gods  she  worshiped,  to 
take  her  brother  to  the  spirit  world,  before  he  should 
place  this  blot  upon  the  nation.  She — ^heroine  that  she 
was — ^would  rather  a  thousand  times  have  lost  her  com- 
panion than  have  had  him  coward  enough  to  buy  his 
life  thus.  Day  and  night  she  pondered  and  prayed,  and 
planned  ways  by  which  she  might  ward  off  so  awful 
an  outrage  against  Incan  pride.  After  a  week  of  de- 
spair and  vain  thought,  while  Attahualpa  was  robbing 
the  shrines  of  their  ornaments  to  fill  the  great  eham* 


THE  PRIMITIVE-KELIGIOUS  GROUP  41 

ber  chosen  by  the  Spanish  general,  Manca  determined 
that  since  she  could  not  by  pleading  with  Attahualpa 
or  by  playing  upon  his  love  for  his  sister  or  his  coun- 
try or  even  for  his  gods,  move  him  from  his  purpose, 
she  would  at  least  save  him  from  himself. 

*'This  was  Manca 's  purpose.  Perhaps,  Juan,  I  failed 
to  tell  you  that  Manca  bore  a  very  strong  resemblance 
to  her  brother,'*  and  for  the  first  time  Uira  looked  away 
from  Quito,  and  glanced  questioningly  at  Juan.  The 
boy  nodded.  *'6o  on,"  he  said,  his  gaze,  too,  traveling 
to  the  city  of  antiquity,  where,  centuries  ago,  Manca 
made  her  hitherto  unrecorded*  sacrifice. 

'*The  spirited  girl,"  went  on  Uira,  ** realized  that 
when  Pizarro  had  his  booty,  his  cowardly  fear  for  him- 
self would  outweigh  his  honor,  and  cause  him  to  kill 
his  prisoner ;  and  so,  when  the  day  came  6n  which  Atta- 
hualpa was  to  open  the  doors  of  the  treasure-filled 
chamber,  Attahualpa  lay  at  his  home,  guarded  by  serv- 
ants, who  were  not  to  liberate  him  till  sundown;  and 
Manca,  garbed  in  her  brother's  clothes,  gave  to  Pizarro 
the  store  of  wealth.  As  she  walked  home,  along  a  lonely 
forest  path,  she  received  the  poisoned  arrow  intended 
for  Attahualpa.  He,  when  he  discovered  his  sister's 
bravery,  slunk  off  to  the  mountains,  with  never  a  thought 
of  the  rumors  which  would  forever  darken  his  name. 
Thus  Manca 's  life,  by  the  sacrifice  of  which  she  had 
hoped  that  she  might  keep  bright  the  fame  of  her 
brother,  was  given  up  for  the  sake  of  a  coward's  repu- 
tation. By  crediting  herself  with  the  surrender  of  the 
wealth,  she  had  intended  that  Attahualpa,  though  he 
had  been  defeated  in  battle,  should  still  remain  the  hero 
of  the  Incas." 


42  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

There  was  a  pause.  The  man  and  the  boy  both  were 
now  staring  down  at  Ecuador's  capital  city,  whose  pil- 
lars seemed  to  be  floating  in  the  mist  just  rising  from 
Pinehincha's  side. 

**As  you  said,  it  is  not  a  pretty  legend.  But  don't 
you  think,  Uira,  that  Manca  must  have  been  very 
beautiful  r' 

— ^Doi*othea  Knoblock. 

The  Flacfi  of  the  Bed  Grads:  or,  The  Invasion  of  Paasasinan 
by  the  Ilocanos 

Long  before  the  Spaniards  discovered  the  Philip- 
pines, there  was  war  in  Luzon  among  the  Pangasinan  ajid 
Ilocano  tribes.  Bach  tribe  had  i)owerful  chiefs  of  re- 
markable courage  and  bravery.  It  was  believed  that 
they  were  sons  of  gods,  and  possessed  magical  power. 
Among  them  was  Palaris,  the  distinguished  chief  of  the 
Pangasinanes,  and  Lumtuad,  the  skillful  chief  of  the 
Ilocanos.  These  rulers  were  neighbors  and  the  army 
of  the  one  plundered  the  towns  of  the  other.  On  ac- 
count of  this  reason  and  also  of  the  ambition  of  each 
to  enlarge  his  dominion,  a  war  broke  out.  Lumtuad 
collected  three  hundred  ships  in  Laoag,  Ilocos  Norte. 
These  ships  were  loaded  with  his  chosen  men  armed 
with  bolos,  spears,  and  bows  and  arrows.  These  ships 
sailed  toward  the  south,  and  entered  the  Gulf  of  Lin- 
gayen,  Pangasinan.  Palaris  and  his  army  went  to  meet 
them. 

At  first,  the  battle  took  place  on  the  water.  Lum- 
tuad showed  his  skill  to  his  enemy.  He  fought  jump- 
ing from  one  ship  to  another.  Unfortunately,  he  was 
shot  by  an  arrow  and  fell  into  the  water.    After  his 


THE  PRIMITIVE-EELIGIOUS  aKOUP  4^ 

d^ath,  his  soldiers  fought  furiotisly',  and  drove  back 
the  enemy  into  the  town. 

When  the  invading  army  had.  landed  all  its  forces, 
it  pursned  Palarift's  arriiy  as  far  as  MaHgaldan,  a  town 
jSfteeh  'miles  from  Liiigttyen.  When  Palaris  foresaw 
the  futhre  defeat  of  his  army,  he  escaped  into  a  sugar 
field.  There  by  Lumthiad's  scduts  he' wfts  found  sleep- 
ing. They*  thrust  a  lanee  through  the  middW  of"  hi6 
body.  But  Palarid  whWed  himself  free  from  the  lance, 
killed  some  of  these  sbldiers,  aiid  pursued  the  rest  un- 
til his  last  breath  was  gone:  He  Was  then  succeeded 
by  his  lieutenant  Afilado,  and  the  battle  wds  renewed. 
Afilado's  forced  were  entirely  defeated  aiM  those  ,whQ 
survived  Were  killed  outright.  A  river  «f  blood  flowed 
from  the  spot  where  the  battle*  took  place,  And  the  grass 
that  grows  ther^  today  is  red.  The  place  where  Palaris 
was 'struck  Was  named  after  him. 

After  th^  war  the  victorious  Ilocanos  settled  in  the 
province  of  Pan^sinan ;  so  that  now  they  constitute  ^ 
greater  ntimbeir  in  'poplildtion  than  the  Pangasinanes 
thetnselve^. 

— iSirto  Guico. 

in.    The  Pairy  Tale 

**Prom  G-houlies  and  Ghoosties,  long-leggetty  Beast- 
ies,  and  Things  that  go  Bump  in  the  Night,  Good  Lord, 
deliver  usI'V  the  quaint  old'  litany  pleads,  ' 
and  is  probably  better  representative  of  the  tude  toward 
attitude   of   primitive   peoples   tbward   the  f^^ry. 
extraordinary  personages  of  th^  sub-world 
than  is  our  more  niodern  and  debonair  view.    We  hav6 
come  to  look  upoii  a  fairy  st'6ry  as  a  mental  holiday, 


44  TYPES  OF  PBOSB  NAEBATIVE8 

to  enjoy  which  the  narrator  and  the  listener  are  off 
on  a  picnic.  But  not  so  do  the  unsophisticated  folk 
think  of  the  events.  The  grown-up  primitive  man  be- 
lieves naore  seriously  in  the  trioj^s  of  goblins  and  sprites 
than  do  our  most  credulous  modern  children.  To  him, 
the  goqd  or  malicious  influence  of  the  nunu  or  ticbalan 
is  not  Q,  fiption>  but  a  reality  that  must  be  reckoned 
with.  I^uckily  he  can  reckon  with  it  j  for  even  in  the 
earlier  f qI]^  tales  th^  fairies  are  not  ge^eraUy  immortal, 
and  thoy  ^o  not  have  unlimite4  power. 

One  chief  chat ft^teristic  that  distinguishes  these  ex- 
tra-natural bdtigg  horn  the  gods  ^s  that  the  extra- 

aataBil  are  for  the  most  part  small  and 
tal^haral?  *'®^<'?*8'  ^^  *^^  uncjer-world.  They  are  not 
teristicsof  g^  much  superhuman  as  other  than  human, 
fairies  . 

They  may  be  checked  or  outwitted  or  even 

finally  overcome.  They  have  power  to  tease^a  man, 
though  not  the  power  utterly  to  destroy  him.  A  pixy 
may  cast  a  spell,  but  not  forever.  Jack-o-lantem,  or 
"Will-o-the-wisp,  may  lead  astray  into  a  bog  and  may 
hope  that  his  victim  be  not  a  good  wader,  but  the  trick 
and  the  malicious  wish  are  the  extent  of  the  evil.  The 
victim  usually  in  the  end  escapes.  If  he  perishes,  he  has 
forgotten  his  charms  or  neglects  to  say  his  prayers. 

There  is  a  somewhat.  w^H-fixed  literary  atmosphere 
for  English  fairy  stories  and  allusions.  As  we  have 
said,  they  must  have  about  them  the  air  of  holiday. 
The  English  elfin  people  are  a  merry  folk  from  the 
dainty  queen  to  the  clumsiest  boggart,  and  enjoy  a  bit 
of  fun  even  at  their  own  expense, — though,  to  tell  the 
truth,  the  joke  is  usually  the  other  way. 

If  you  wish  to  write  an  original  narrative  about 


THE  PRIMITIVE-KELIGIOUS  GROUP  45 

these  charming  creatures,  the  best  way  to  prepare  is  to 
get  acquainted  with  them.  No  doubt  you  know  where 
some  of  them  live.  Perhaps  only  this  morning  you 
ohanced  upon  a  forgotten  hammock  left  swinging  be- 
tween two  stout  little  sprigs  of  grass  where  a  fairy  had 
slept,  or  maybe  last  night  you  clearly  heard  the  tinkle 
of  pranckling  feet  and  were  too  lazy  or  indifferent  to  go 
to  the  window  to  catch  a  glimpse  of  a  wondrous  sight. 
I  pray  you,  if  you  have  the  chance  again,  join  the 
masquerade,  remembering  only  that  if  Oberon  asks 
you  why  you  are  there,  you  must  speak  out  frankly. 
His  promise  is 

**We  fairies  never  injure  men 
Who  dare  to  tell  us  true." 

Oh,  yes,  one  more  thing  to  remember!  Leave  before 
cock-crow  if  you  expect  to  bring  your  wits  with  you. 

If  you  are  afraid  to  try  the  experiment  of  original 
sightseeing  and  fear  Sir  Topas's  fate,  do  the  next  best 
thing.  Seek  out  somebody  who  has  witnessed  a  fairy 
revel,  or  been  at  a  brownies'  banquet,  has  outtricked  a 
bogie,  or  propitiated  an  angry  gnome,  or,  best  of  all, 
likely,  has  made  a  little  green  cloak  and  hood  for  the 
lubber-flend  of  the  kitchen  hearth,  and  has  seen  him 
fling  himself  out-of-doors  in  high  glee  to  return  no 
more  except  with  good  luck.  Watchers  who  have  seen 
these  things,  I  dare  say,  will  have  much  to  tell  you.  Get 
their  narratives. 

The  Filipino  fairies  are  not  so  winsome  as  the  Eng- 
lish, but  they  are  far  more  actual.  The  English  fairies 
are  *'but  mortals  beautifully  masquerading,"  says  Mr, 


4£  TYPES  OF  PSOSE  NABRATIVES 

W.  13.  Yeats.  He  could  find  no  fault  with  the  Filipino 
fairieg;  for  they  are  potent  forces.  like  the  Irish 
deenee  «hee,  the  Filipijio  supernatural  beings  are  thor- 
oughly believed  in  by  the  peasants,  and,  like  the  Irish 
creatures,  the  Malayan  are  not  always  small,  but  may 
be  small  or  large  at  will.  Some  of  their  manifestations 
are  indeed  gruesome ;  a  few  are  harmless  or  even  help- 
ful ;  all  are  very  interesting. 

The  educated  young  people  of  the  Philippines  have  a 
mission  to  perform  for  the  native  fairies.  It. has  become 
the  fashion  in  some  places  to  frown  upon  the  unseen 
folk  and  to  attempt  to  drive  them  out.  The  e:»de^vor 
is  commendable  so  far  as  it  discriminates.  The  bad 
fairies  should  go.  The  wholesome  ones,  should  stay. 
They  should  stay  for  the  sake  of  future  native  poetry 
and  for  the  sake  of  all  the  little  brown  children  who 
love  stories. 

A  bare  list,  of  tihe  names  of  fairies  and  subhuman 
beings  is  inspiring.  In  the  Norse .  countries  there  are 
dwarfs^  known  also  as  ti:olls^  kobalds,  gob- 
faWes^and  ^^^f  brownies,  pucks,  or  elle-folk.  It  is  said 
the^r  at-  that  *they  are  less  powerful  than  gods,  but 
tr  utes  j^^  more .  intelligent  than  n^ei^ ;  that  their 
knowledge  is  boundless  and  extetuds  eveu  to  the  future. 
They  can  transport  themselves  with  celerity  from  one 
place  to  another,  and  love  to  hide  behind  rocks  and 
repeat  the  last  words  of  every  conversation  they  over- 
hear. Echoes  are  known  as  dwarfs'  tajk.  A  Tarn- 
kappc  each  one  owns,  a  tiny  red  cap  which  makes  the 
wearer  invisible.  Dwarfs  are  ruled  by  a  king  spoken 
of  in  various  northern  countries  as  Andvari,  Alberich, 
Blbegast,  Gondemar,  Laurin,  or  Obero^.    He  dwells 


THE  PRIMITIVE-RELIGIOUS  GROUP  47 

in  a  magnificent  subterranean  palace  and  owns  a  magic 
ring,  an  invisible  sword,  and  a  belt  of  strength.  His 
subjects  often  fashion  marvelous  weapons  and  girdles. 
In  general,  dwarfs  are  kindly  and  helpful:  sometimes 
they  knead  bread,  grind  flour,  brew  beer,  and  perform 
countless  other  household  tasks;  sometimes  they  har- 
vest and  thresh  grain  for  the  farmers.  If  ill-treated 
or  turned  to  ridicule,  these  little  creatures  forsake  the 
houjsie  never  to  come  back  to  it  again.  Sometimes  they 
take  vengeance  by  means  of  changelings.  Changelings 
are  the  W:eazened  and  puny  offspring  of  the  dwarfs 
which  they  substitute  for  unbaptized  children  that  they 
steal  from  people  who  have  offended  them.  The  dwarfs, 
envious  of  the  taller  stature  of  the  human  race,  desire 
to  improve  their  own,  and  so  consider  it  good  morals 
thus  to  make  their  enemies  their  benefactors.' 

Fairies,  elves,  and  ariels  include  all  the  small 
creatures  who  are  fair,  good,  and  useful.  They  have 
their  dwelling-place,  it  is  said,  'in  the  airy  realm  of 
Alf-heim  (home  of  the  light-elves),  situated  between 
heaven  and  earth,  whence  they  can  flit  downwards 
whenever  they  please,  to  attend  to  the  plants  and  flow- 
ers, sport  with  the  birds  and  butterflies,  or  dance  in 
the  silvery  moonlight  on  the  green.'  They  have  golden 
hair,  sweet  musical  voices,  and  magic  harps.  These 
gentle  aerial  beings,  scholars  say,  were  introduced  into 
Europe  by  the  Crusaders  and  the  Moors  of  Spain.  Be- 
fore that  time  the  creatures  of  the  North  had  been  cold 
and  ungenial,  like  their  heath-clad  mountains,  chilly 
lakes,  and  piny  solitudes;  but  after  the  advent  of  the 
Peri  of  the  East,  who  live  in  the  sun  or  the  rainbow 
and  subsist  on  the  odor  of  flowers,  the  Northern  elves 


48  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NABRATIVES 

took  on  more  winning  attributes  and  finally  became 
beneficent  and  beautiful. 

Many  of  the  stories  in  the  so-called  fairy  books  are 
technically  not  fairy  stories  but  nursery  sagas,  as  we 
use  the  term  today ;  for  instance,  most  of  those  in  Miss 
Mulock's  *' Fairy  Book"  and  the  larger  part  in  the 
**Blue  and  the  Green  Fairy  Books."  They  are  English, 
French,  German,  and  other  Mdrchen.  retold.  Jean 
Ingelow's  '^Mopsa  the  Fairy"  has  a  good-sounding 
title  for  a  typical  fairy  book,  though  the  material  seems 
to  be  literary  ,  rather  than  traditional.  Brentano's 
creatures,  in  translation  surely  bear  literary  names, 
whatever  they  have  in  the  original.  Dream-my-Soul 
and  Sir  Skip-and-a-Jump  are  suggestive  of  the  pen. 
But  Puck  of  Pook's  Hill  comes  near  to  being  of  the 
solid  traditional  Northern  type — ^at  least  in  declara- 
tion. He  says  he  is  the  oldest  Old  Thing  in  England — 
very  much  at  your  service  if  you  care  to  have  anything 
to  do  with  him;  but,  by  Oak  and  Ash  and  Thorn,  he 
hates  the  painty-winged,  wand-waving,  sugar-and- 
shake-your-head  set  of  imposters !  He  is  for  Wayland- 
Smith  and  magic  and  the  old  days  before  the  Conquest. 
Charles  Kingsley's  Madam  How  and  Lady  Why  are 
noble  fairies  without  dispute — ^really  goddesses;  yet, 
strange  to  say,  they  have  revealed  themselves  to  a  peda- 
gogue and  have  permitted  their  work  to  be  the  sub- 
ject of  lectures.  Still,  they  are  companionable  and 
wholesome  and  none  the  less  marvelous  than  their  more 
common  sisters.  This  is  an  interesting  contamination 
of  genres — the  pedagogical  narrative  combined  with 
the  fairy  tale.  Usually  the  combination  is  not  so 
happily  made. 


THE  PEIMITIVE-RELIGIOUS  GROUP  49 

If  a  writer  cares  to  attempt  a  new  ''old''  fairy  tale 
of  the  real  sort,  he  might  observe  the  following  more 
specific  suggestions,  which  were  written  out 
before  **Puck  of  Pook's  Hill"  came  into  the  proceed 
hands  of  the  author  of  this  book,  but  which  to  write  a 
happen  to  express  fairly  well  what  might  be 
deduced  as  Kipling's  procedure.  (1)  Decide  on  the 
country  in  which  the  events  are  to  take  place.  (2)  If 
you  are  not  already  familiar  with  that  country  through 
the  medium  of  traveling  or  residence,  make  yourself  fa- 
miliar with  it  by  reading.  The  more  you  know  about 
the  common  people  and  their  superstitions,  the  better 
your  story  will  be.  (3)  Make  lists  of  names  of  the 
good  and  bad  spirits  of  that  country  together  with 
their  occupations  and  powers.  (4)  From  these  lists 
pick  our  the  being  you  are  going  to  treat  as  your  chief 
personage  and  clearly  define  to  yourself  its  relation  to 
the  other  spirits.  (5)  Then  weave  about  this  person- 
ality a  series  of  events  for  which  it  is  directly  or  indi- 
rectly responsible.  (6)  Be  sure  to  make  the  fairies  or 
spirits  of  the  Other  world  the  chief  actors.  If  living 
man  comes  in,  he  must  be  simply  the  object  to  whom 
they  oflfer  their  favors  or  on  whom  they  play  their 
pranks  or  wreak  their  vengeance.  It  is  the  doings  of 
the  fairies  or  of  the  beings  of  the  extra-natural  world 
that  you  must  make  your  reader  interested  in.  (7)  If 
you  care  to  write  a  weird  fairy  tale,  select  the  un- 
pleasant spirits  and  proceed;  but  be  sure  not  to  make 
your  story  revolting  instead  of  weird.  A  good  weird 
tale  is  the  work  of  a  master  and  pleases  because  of  its 
art.    A  horrible  story  any  bungler  can  tell.   (8)  Finally, 


50.  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

remember  the  working  definition:  A  fairy  tale  is  a 
narrative  of  imaginary  events  wherein  the  chief  actors 
Summary  ^^®  beings  other  than  man  and  the  gods — 
definition  beings  who  have  power  to  help  man  or  to  tease 
and  molest  him,  but  not  the  power  utterly  to  destroy 
him. 


PARTIAL    LIST    OP    FAIRIES,    GOOD    AND    BAD,    OP    DIFFERENT 
COUNTRIES : 

Nortliern  Fairies 

Duergar,  or  Dwerger — Gotho-German  dwarfs,  dwelling 
in  rocks  and  hills ;  noted  for  their  strength,  subtlety, 
magical  powers,  and  skill  in  metallurgy.  They  are 
personifications  of  the  subterranean  powers  of 
nature. 

Kobold — a  house-spirit  in  German  superstition;  same 
as  English  Robin  Goodf ellow,  or  Puck. 

Nick — B.  water-wraith  or  Kelpie.  There  are  nicks 
in  sea,  lake,  river,  or  waterfall.  Sometimes  rep- 
resented as  half-child,  half-horse,  the  hoofs  being 
reversed. 

Nis,  or  Nisse — a  Scandinavian  fairy  friendly  to  farija- 
houses. 

Trolls — ^similar  to  Duergar ;  dwarfs  of  Northern  mythol- 
ogy living  in  hills  and  mounds.  They  are  repre- 
sented as  stumpy,  misshapen,  humpbacked,  inclined 
to  thieving  and  fond  of  carrying  off  children  or  sub- 
stituting one  of  their  own  offspring  for  that  of  a 
human  mother.  They  are  said  to  dislike  noise  very 
much. 

Stromkarl — a  Norwegian  musical  spirit,  like  Neck. 


THE  PRIMITrVE-BELIGIOITS  GROTTP  gl 

Iriik  and  Scotch  Fairies 

Banshee*— domestic  ispirit  of  certain  Irish  or  Highland 
Scotch  families ;  supposed  to  take  an  interest  in  their 
welfare.  '• 

Boggart  (Scotch)— a  Ibcal  hobgoblin  or  sj)irit. 

Bogie  (Scotch,  Welsh,  and  Irish) — a  scarecrow,  a  gob- 
lin. • 

Brownie — ^the  house  spirit  in  Scottish  superstition. 
Called  in  England  Robin  Goodfellow.  Farms  aref 
his  favorite  abode! 

Jack-a-lantern — a  bog  or  marsh  spirit  who  delights  to 
mislead.  * 

Lepracaun,  or  Leprechaun  (Irish) — a  fairy  shoemaker. 

Filipino  Fairies  and  Other  Minor  Supernatural. Creatures 

The  list  that  follows  is  necessarily  very  brief,  for 
every  tribe  of  the  Philippine  Islands  has  its  host  bf  mis- 
ehievous  creatures,  whose  chief  delight  is  to  annoy  or 
frighten  men.  4)thers  jaire  oi  a  more  malignant  nature, 
however;  some  cause  sickness;  som^  insanity;  and  oc- 
casionally some  cause  death,  for  the  Filipino^  as  Well 
as  the  Hungarians  have  th^eir  vampii^es. 

The  name  of  the  tribe  in  which  the  belief  in  the 
spirit  is  most  common  is  given  in  parentheae^s  after  the 
description: 

Salut — the  spirits  of  pestilence  in  general  and  cholera 
in  particular.  They  ai'e  desciribed  as  tall;  thiii  peis. 
soil«  dfessi^d  in  flowing  black  robes,  who  ws^lbHhe 
streets  at  night  arid  knock  at  the  dootis  of  thcl  hcrfises 
to  which  they  wish  tO  carry  dearth.  5  (Tfeigalog, 
Pampango,  Bicol.)  •  '  '- 

Matandtt  fea  puniS{)-^£t  little  oldman  wfefe  liv^fs-*!  a 


52  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

mound  of  earth.  He  loves  children,  and  is  willing 
to  help  those  who  respect  him  and  his  house. 
(Tagalog.) 

Lampong — a  tall  harmless  creature  with  a  horse's  head 
and  feet  but  a  man's  body.  He  lives  in  the  woods, 
can  travel  very  rapidly,  and  is  deathly  afraid  of  a 
rosary.  He  possesses  some  magic  power.  (Pan- 
gasinan.) 

Camana — an  evil  spirit  that  lives  in  gloomy  places.  It 
can  assume  the  form  of  any  Ssmall  animal,  or  can 
make  itself  invisible.  If  a  person  who  comes  across 
the  camana  does  not  propitiate  it  with  food  or  some- 
thing entertaining,  he  will  become  sick ;  and  he  can 
be  cured  only  by  an  old  woman  who  is  a  manganito. 
(Parts  of  Zambales.) 

Patianak — ^Accounts  about  patianak  are  very  contra- 
dictory. It  is  most  commonly  believed,  however,  to 
be  a  mischievous  fairy  that  assumes  the  form  of  a 
small  child  and  misleads  travelers  at  night.  It  has 
a  mirthful  laugh  that  is  very  attractive.  The  only 
way  for  the  victim  to  drive  the  fairy  away  and  to 
find  the  right  road  is  for  him  to  take  off  his  coat 
and  wear  it  inside  out.     (Tagalog  and  Bicol.) 

Mamamarang — a  sorceress  who  fights  with  travelers  in 
lonely  places  and  tries  to  kill  them  that  she  may 
eat  them.    (Visayan.) 

Managbatu — a  spirit  in  the  form  of  a  man,  which  lives 
in  trees  and  at  midnight  throws  stones  and  clods  at 
the  houses  near  his  dwelling.  He  can  cause  sickness 
to  those  that  try  to  injure  him.    (Cagayan.) 

Cafre — an  enormous  black  man  that  smokes  long 
cigars.    He  does  very  little  harm,  but  delights  in 


THE  PBIMITIVE-BELIGIOUS  GKOUP  53 

frightening  people.  Some  say  he  can  transform 
himself  into  almost  anything  from  a  pig  to  a  ball  of 
fire.  He  appears  only  at  night,  of  course.  (Pam- 
pango,  Tagalog,  Bicol.) 

Tigbalang — a  demon  who  lives  in  trees,  especially  the 
baliti  tree.  His  body  is  covered  with  long  hair  and 
one  of  his  feet  is  a  horse's  hoof.  His  chief  delight 
is  to  lead  people  astray  and  make  them  crazy,  or  to 
ravage  banana  plantations,  to  empty  water  jars, 
shake  houses,  and  disturb  people  generally. 
(Tagalog.) 

Tigabulak— a  demon  who  in  the  form  of  an  old  man 
entices  children  with  candy  and  cakes.  After  he  has 
led  them  far  from  home,  he  puts  them  in  a  sack  and 
carries  them  to  his  dwelling.  Then  he  kills  them 
and  makes  money  out  of  their  blood.    (Tagalog.) 

Caibaan — little  mischievous  field  spirits  who  play  tiny 
guitars.  They  steal  dishes  and  hide  them,  and  in- 
dulge in  other  pranks.     (Pangasinan  and  Ilocano.) 

Russian  Fairies  and  Witches 

Domovoy — the  Russian  brownie  that  lives  behind  the 
stove.  If  he  is  neglected,  he  waxes  wroth  and 
knocks  the  tables  and  benches  around  at  night. 

Baba-yaga — an  ogress  who  lives  on  the  edge  of  the 
forest,  in  a  hut  built  so  as  to  turn  with  the  wind 
like  a  weathercock. 

Rusalki — water  sprites. 

Vodianoi — river  genii. 

Lieshii  and  the  Liesnik — forest  demons. 

Vampires — ghosts  who  steal  by  night  from  their  tombs, 
and  suck  the  blood  of  the  living  during  their  sleep. 


64  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

Arabian  Fairfitts  and  llnu^M 

Jinn — a  sort  of  fairies  of  Arabian  mythology — th6  off- 
spring of  fire.    (The  singular  of  jinn  is  jinnee.) 

Afreet — a  sort  of  Arabian  ghoul  or  demon— the  epitome 
of  what  is  terrible  and  monstrous  in  Arabian  super- 
stition. 

Peri  (plural  of  Peris) — ^Peri  are  delicate,  gentle,  fairy- 
like beings  of  Eastern  mythology,  begotten  by  fallen 
spirits.  With  a  wand  they  direct  the  pure  in  mind 
the  way  to  heaven. 

Mitcttllaneottt  Fairies  and  Other  Supernatural  Creatures 

Esprit  PoUet — the  house-spirit  of  France. 

Familiar  spirit — a  spirit  or  demon  supposed  to  be  sum- 
moned by  a  necromancer  or  a  -soothsayer  from  the 
unseen  world  to  attend  upon  him  as  a  servant. 

Fay — the  French  word  for  fairy,  anglicised. 

Gnome — one  of  a  fabulous  race  of  dwarfed  and  mis- 
shapen earth-spirits  or  goblins,  reputed  to  be  special 
guardians  of  mines  and  miners.  (<  French  gnome, 
from  the  Greek.) 

Hag — a  forbidding  or  malicious  old  woman;  a  witch. 
(<A.  S.  haegtes,  a  fury.) 

Hamadryad — a  wood-nymph  fabled  to  live  and  die  with 
the  tree  she  inhabited,  the  oak  being  considered  as 
the  tree  preferred.    (Greek  mythology.) 

Homie,  or  Horny — the  devil;  so  called  because  com- 
monly represented  with  horns. 

Imp — an  evil  spirit  of  low  rank ;  a  small,  puny,  or  con- 
temptible de^nl.  (Russian  folk  tales  often  make  use 
of  this  spirit.) 

Undine — a  female  water-spirit  without  a  soul,  with 


THE  PRIMITIVE-RELIGIOUS  GROUP  55 

which  she  might  be  endowed  only  by  marrying  a 

mortal  and  bearing  a  child.     (< Latin  urida,  wave.) 
Werwolf — a  person  who,  according  to  mediaeval  super- 
stition, became  voluntarily  or  involuntarily  a  wolf 

and  in  that  form  practiced  cannibalism.     (<A.  S. 

wer,  man  +  wiilf,  wolf.) 
Wraith — ^a  fantom  of  a  living  person,  supposed  to  be 

ominous  of  that  person's  death. 
Lamia — a.  female  demon  or  vampire  that  enticed  youths 

and  fed  upon  their  flesh  and  blood.      (Classical 

mythology.) 
Merrow — a  mermaid.    (Irish  mythology.) 
Monaciello — the  house-spirit  of  Naples. 
Nightmare — an  evil  spirit  once  supposed  to  oppress 

people  during  sleep.    Called  also  Incubus.    ( < A.  S. 

niht,  night  +  maere,  a  nightmare.) 
Ogre — a  demon  or  monster  that  was  supposed  to  devour 

human  beings.     (<  French  ogre.    The  derivation  is 

uncertain.) 
Ouphe — an   elf   or  fairy.      (<the   Scandinavian,     A 

variation  of  oaf  =  elf.) 
Plgwidgeon — a  very  small  fairy. 
Sprite — a  spirit  of  the  earth  or  air. 
Sylph — originally,  a  being,  male  or  female,  living  in 

and  on  the  air  and  intermediate  between  material 

and  immaterial  beings.     (Used  by  Paracelsus.    The 

word  is  undoubtedly  of  Greek  origin.) 

Tlie  Boggart 

In  the  house  of  an  honest  farmer  in  Yorkshire,  named 
George  Gilbertson,  a  Boggart  had  taken  up  his  abode, 
fie  here  caused  a  good  deal  of  annoyance,  especially 


56        *  TYPES  OP  PBOSE  NARRATIVES 

by  tormenting  the  children  in  various  ways.  Sometimes 
their  bread  and  butter  would  be  Snatched  away,  or 
their  porringers  of  milk  be  capsized  by  ah  invisible 
hand;  for  the  Boggart  never  let  himself  be  seen;  at 
other  times  the  curtains  of  their  beds  would  be  shaken 
backwards  and  forwards,  or  a  heavy  weight  would  press 
on  them  and  nearly  suffocate  them.  The  parents  had. 
often,  on  hearing  their  cries,  to  fly  to  their  aid.  There 
was  a  kind  of  closet,  formed  by  a  wooden  partition  on 
the  kitchen  stairs,  and  a  large  knot  having  been  driven 
out  of  one  of  the  deal  boards  of  which  it  was  made, 
there  remained  a  hole.  Into  this  one  day  the  farmer's 
youngest  boy  stuck  the  shoe  horn  with  which  he  was 
amusing  himself,  when  immediately  it  was  thrown  out 
again,  and  hit  the  boy  on  the  head.  The  agent  was, 
of  course,  the  Boggart,  and  it  soon  became  the  children's 
sport  (called  laking  with  Boggart)  to  put  the  shoe  horn 
into  the  hole  and  have  it  shot  back  at  them. 

The  Boggart  at  length  proved  such  a  torment  that 
the  farmer  and  his  wife  resolved  to  quit  the  house  and 
let  him  have  it  all  to  himself.  This  decision  was  put 
into  execution,  and  the  farmer  and  his  family  were 
following  the  last  loads  of  furniture,  when  a  neighbor 
named  John  Marshall  came  up:  **Well,  Georgey,"  said 
he,  **and  soa  you're  leaving  t'ould  hoose  at  last?" 
** Heigh,  Johnny,  my  lad,  I'm  forced  tuU  it;  for  that 
villain  Boggart  torments  us  soa,  we  can  neither  rest 
neet  nor  day  for't.  It  seems  loike  to  have  such  a  malice 
again  t'poor  bairns,  it  ommost  kills  my  poor  dame  here 
at  thoughts  on't,  and  soa,  ye  see,  we're  forced  to  flitt 
loike."  He  scarce  had  uttered  the  words  when  a  voice 
from   a   deep   upright  churn   cried   out:     ''Aye,   aye, 


THE  PEIMITIVE-RELTGIOrS  GKOUP  57 

Johnny,  we're  flitting,  ye  see."  *'0d  hang  thee,"  cried 
the  poor  farmer,  '*if  I'd  known  thou'd  heen  there,  I 
wadn't  ha'  stirred  a  peg.  Nay,  nay,  it's  no  use,  Mally," 
said  he  to  his  wife,  ''we  may  as  weel  turn  back  to 
t'ould  hoose  as  be  tormented  in  another  that's  not  so 
convenient." 

From  "English  Fairy  and  Other  Folk  Tales."  Selected  and 
edited  by  Edwin  Sidney  Hartland  (Walter  Scott  Pub.  Co.). 

Cafxe  and  the  FiBherman's  Wife 

Once  in  the  little  village  of  Babancal  there  lived  a 
happy  couple.  T^ey  were  poor  and  it  was  necessary 
for  them  both  to  work  for  their  living.  The  husband's 
occupation  was  farming  during  the  wet  season  and  fish- 
ing during  the  dry  season.  The  wife  kept  the  house, 
helped  the  husband  in  some  of  his  work,  and  in  addi- 
tion, made  mats  of  buli,  pandan,  or  ticay,  and  sacks  of 
buli. 

One  night,  at  about  six  o'clock  after  a  slight  supper, 
when  it  was  dolom  (moonless),  the  husband  went  to 
fish.  The  wife  remained  alone  at  home  and  sat  wait- 
ing for  the  husband,  and,  at  the  same  time,  making  a 
mat.  The  house  was  lighted  with  a  home-made  lamp 
of  bamboo  and  earth.  The  lampwick  of  ragged  eloth 
dipped  in  oil  made  from  the  fruit  of  the  bitaog  tree 
gave  a  very  poor  light. 

At  about  midnight  some  one  threw  a  dalag  (a  kind 
of  fish)  through  the  window.  The  wife  was  frightened 
and  surprised.    In  a  minute  she  recovered  herself. 

"Come  in,  Gregorio,"  she  said,  for  she  thought  her 
husband  was  outside. 

No  onei  answered. 


58  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NAEBATIVES 

'*Stop  this  nonsense.  You  know  it  is  late  now,'' 
she  said  angrily.  **You  had  better  oome  in  and  let  us 
cook  the  fish  and  eat  our  supper."  SJie  did  not  rise 
from  her  seat  and  went  on  with  her  work. 

In  a  few  minutes  a  rod  with  another  dalag  hanging 
on  it  was  thrust  into  the  room.  The  fish  fell  on  the 
floor  before  her. 

*'0h,  how  foolish!    Come  in,  I  say,*'  she  said. 

Hardly  had  she  uttered  the  last  word  when  the  fish 
on  the  hook  came  down  upon  her  head.  She  muttered 
some  oaths  and  tried  to  catch  the  fish  and  take  hold 
of  the  rod.  But  before  she  could  do^so,  it  was  raised. 
Then  she  got  up,  took  the  lamp,  and  went  to  the  window. 

When  she  peeped  out,  she  saw  Cafre,  the  Spirit, 
grinning  at  her.  His  smile  showed  his  large  white 
teeth,  forming  a  strong  contrast  with  his  dark  complex- 
ion and  the  darkness  of  the  night.  The  woman  was 
frightened.  She  trembled  and  could  not  move  an  inch. 
She  bent  down  her  head  to  avoid  his  gaze.  At  last 
when  she  raised  her  eyes,  he  was  gone. 

— ^B^nito  C.  Ebuen, 

The  Friendship   of  an  Aswang  and  a  Buende 

About  a  half  mile  from  Noveleta  there  is  a  small 
pond.  The  tall  bamboo  trees  that  grow,  at  the  edge  of 
the  water  bow  their  heads  toward  each  other  so  that 
they  form  a  complete  vaulted  arch  over  the  pond.  There 
are  but  small  spaces  left  between  the  thick  leaves  above 
and  so  the  sunshine  can  hardly  go  through  them.  The 
lilies,  the  sea  weed,  and  the  falling  leaves  of  the  bamboo 
trees,  decaying  under  the  water  have  deposited  a  deep 
layer  of  sediment. 


THE  PRIMITIVE-RELIGIOUS  GROUP  59 

A  Icflig  time  ago  a  shooting  meteor  from  heaven 
fell  on  the  water  of  this  pond.  This  meteor  bore  within 
it  a  beautifnl  nymph  named  Bituin.  Her  slender  white 
body,  whose  skin  was  very  delicate,  was  covered  with 
beautiful  leaves  of  the  lilies  whenever  she  came  out  of 
the  water.  Every  night  numberless  fireflies  lighted  her 
dwelling  with  their  fresh  rays.  Bituin  had  a  large 
diamond,  which  she  always  put  on  a  floating  leaf  at 
the  center  of  the  pond  to  serve  as  a  light  when  it  was 
dark. 

Bituin  had  no  neighbors  for  a  number  of  years, 
and  so  she  was  not  familiar  with  the  form  of  man. 
However,  as  time  glided  on  she  was  known  by  many, 
who  b^gan  to  love  her.  She  did  not  dare  to  speak 
with  men,  because  she  was  not  familiar  with  the  ugly 
complexion  of  the  skin  of  mortals.  One  night  an  as- 
wang  was  passing  by  this  pond,  and  he  heard  the  mu- 
sical vibration  of  the  bamboo  leaves  in  harmony  with 
the  whistling  sound  of  the  wings  of  fireflies.  He  stopped 
and  admired  the  beautiful  nymph,  who  was  sitting  on 
the  water,  watching  the  wonderful  rays  of  light  from 
her  large  diamond.  He  was  led  to  wonder  at  her 
beauty,  and  he  fell  in  love  with  her.  He  asked  Bituin 
to  approach  him,  but  his  words  had  hardly  died  from 
his  ugly  lips  when  Bituin  upon  hearing  his  unfamiliar 
voice  disappeared.  There  began  the  sadness  of  this 
aswang.  Every  night  he  passed  by  the  pond  only  to 
see  and  to  speak  with  Bituin,  the  beautiful  and 
elusive  nymph.  Yet  all  his  hopes  and  efforts  were  in 
vain. 

This  aswang  laid  hiftiself  to  die  near  a  heap  of  hay. 
Here  lived  an  army  of  small  men  called  duendes.    The 


60  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARKATIVES 

duendes  are  usually  good  to  those  who  are  very  strongly 
in  love  with  women.  At  midnight  one  of  these  little 
creatures  came  out  of  the  hay  with  a  flute  longer  than 
himself.  Little  duende  blew  the  flute,  and  the  aswang 
thinking  that  the  sweet  vibration  of  the  air  came  from 
the  lips  of  Bituin,  at  once  raised  up  his  head  and 
looked  around.  Aswang  being  a  wild  man  said,  '*How 
is  it  that  you  little  duendes  are  so  troublesome?"  ''Mas- 
ter," said  the  little  duende,  '*I  came  here  to  restore 
the  broken  heart  of  a  lover  and  it  is  you."  **How  now 
can  you  comfort  me?"  said  the  aswang.  **Come  with 
me,"  said  the  little  duende,  ''and  show  me  where  Bituin 
lives." 

So  they  started  toward  the  pond.  On  their  way 
the  duende,  being  as  small  as  a  little  doll,  often  lost 
himself  from  the  sight  of  his  friend  aswang.  The 
duende  was  full  of  fun  and  jokes,  and  he  was  happy 
all  the  way.  When  they  came  near  the  pond  little 
duende  jumped  over  the  thorny  bushes  that  fringed 
the  dwelling  of  Bituin.  Now  he  rode  on  a  lily  leaf  float- 
ing on  the  water,  and  he  was  singing  a  song  at  the 
same  time  that  he  was  playing  on  his  flute.  He  gath- 
ered some  lily  flowers  and  put  one  of  them  on  his  head. 
Duende  skipped  over  the  sea  weeds  as  light  as  could 
be.  Strange  to  say,  the  attractive  music  caught  the 
ears  of  Bituin,  and  so  she  appeared  before  the  duende. 
The  music  was  so  sweet,  so  charming,  and  so  pleasant 
to  her  ears  that  fear  of  such  a  being  never  entered  her 
thoughts.  She  approached  the  little  duende,  but  he 
would  not  allow  her  to  touch  his  enchanting  flute.  As- 
wang could  not  come  inside.  Ife  tried  to  jump  over  the 
bushes,  but  he  knew  that  he  could  not.    All  at  once  he 


THE  PEIMITIVB-RELIGIOUS  GROUP  61 

roared  with  a  sharp  tone  that  put  Bituin  to  flight,  and 

she  never  returned  again. 

Duende  blamed  the  aswang  for  roaring,   but  the 

broken-hearted  aswang  in  anger  said,  **Why  did  you 

not  catch  hold  of  her?"    Duende  did  not  answer  and 

tried  to  flee,  but  aswang  held  him  by  the  neck  and  tore 

him  to  pieces.    So  from  that  time  on  the  duendes  have 

not  often  been  heard  of;  and,  if  they  ever  come,  they 

do  evil  things  and  cause  misfortune  to  little  children. 

None  of  the  aswangs  since  has  ever  been  afraid  of  small 

creatures.  t,  ■.  -r^  -r^   . 

— Emanuel  E.  Baja. 

A  Tlaiiac  Frightens  Juan 

One  harvest  day,  one  of  our  neighbors,  whose  name 
is  Juan,  built  a  nipa  hut  on  a  farm  amid  his  rice  planta- 
tion. There  he  slept  alone  during  the  harvest  time  to 
look  after  his  grain. 

One  night  about  twelve  o'clock  he  began  to  feel  the 
cold  north  wind,  and  the  leaves  began  to  rustle.  By 
and  by  the  wind  stopped.  He  tried  to  sleep,  but  he 
could  not,  for  the  mosquitoes  were  too  thick.  He  then 
went  out  of  his  hut  and  gathered  some  dry  twigs  and 
grasses  and  made  a  small  fire  to  drive  the  mosquitoes 
away.  When  the  fire  began  to  kindle,  he  sat  before 
his  hut,  facing  a  small  hill.  Not  long  afterward  he 
heard  the  laughing  of  a  child  from  the  top  of  the  hill. 
The  child  seemed  to  be  very  happy,  for  it  laughed  as 
hard  as  it  could.  Juan  then  began  to  wonder  who 
the  child  was,  for  he  knew  that  no  one  was  living  near 
him.  Soon  the  laughing  grew  louder  and  louder  and 
Juan  began  to  be  frightened.  He  supposed  that  the 
child  was  approaching  him,  but  at  once  the  laughing 


62  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

stopped  and  again  everything  was  silent  abont  the  field. 
He  looked  around  him  several  times  because  he  did  not 
know  what  kind  of  creature  that  child  was,  and  he 
feared  that  she  might  take  hold  of  him  from  behind. 

While  Juan  was  thinking  of  what  to  do,  a  girl  with 
white  complexion  and  golden  hair  appeared  before  him 
laughing  as  hard  as  she  could.  Juan  then  was  about  to 
run  away  and  call  for  help,  but  he  knew  that  there 
was  no  one  to  help  him,  so  he  gathered  all  his  strength 
and  courage  and  approached  the  girl  with  his  holo  in 
hand  and  said,  **Tell  me  who  you  are  or  else  tiiis  night 
is  your  last.'*  The  girl  did  not  answer  him,  but  con- 
tinued laughing.  He  struck  at  her,  but  she  at  once 
vanished  away  and  reappeared  behind  him  laiighing  as 
hard  as  she  could.  He  struck  at  her  several  times.  He 
did  not  touch  her  at  all  and  she  laughed  lotlder.  Juan 
then  threw  his  bolo  at  her  and  ran  home  shouting  as 
he  went  along  calling  for  help,  **St.  John,  8t.  Peter, 
St.  Nicholas,  come  and  help  me!''  When  he  came  to 
the  forest  a  cricket  alighted  on  his  coat  and  began 
to  sing.  He  mistook  it  for  the  girl,  so  he  ran  very 
fast.  When  he  came  to  the  town,  the  policemen  tried 
to  stop  him,  but  they  could  not.  He  tried  to  tell  them 
that  a  girl  was  singing  behind  him,  but  he  was  so  ter- 
ribly frightened  that  his  calling  to  the  godS  confused 
him,  and  while  he  was  running  he  shouted,  **St.  John 
sings,  St.  John  sings,  etc.,"  until  he  came  to  his  house. 
His  family  asked  him  what  the  matter  was,  but  he 
could  not  speak  because  of  fatigue.  By  this  time  the 
cricket  had  flown  away.  Later  the  family  found  out 
that  Juan  had  seen  a  iianac. 

— Santiago  Ochoa. 


THE  PRIMITIVE-EELIGIOUS  GROUP  53 

The  Black  Glotli  of  the  Oalumpang  Tree 

Once  there  lived  on  a  lonely  farm  about  two  miles 
from  the  town  of  San  Juan  two  brothers  whose* names 
were  Mariano  and  Pedro.  They  were  the  sons  of  a 
farmer  named  Rafael. 

Along  the  road  leading  from  this  farm  to  the  town 
there  was  not  a  single  house.  There  was 'a  big  calum- 
pang  tree  by  this  road  about  a  mile  from  the  farm. 
Some  of  its  large  branches  almost  touched  the  ground. 
Many  stories  had  been  told  about  this  calumpang ;  some 
said  that  they  saw  a  ghost  in  the  form  of  a  white  dog 
under  it;  others  said  they  saw  it  in  the  form  of  a  tall, 
thin  black  man  sitting  sideways  on  a  big  branch  with 
eyes  as  large  as  saucers  and  with  a  big  cigar  a  meter 
long  in  his  mouth. 

One  day  Mariano  with  his  little  brother  Pedro  went 
to  the  town  to  attend  a  procession.  It  was  night  when 
they  started  for  home.  On  their  way  when  they  were 
out  of  the  town,  they  heard  a  noise  on  one  side  of  the 
road  not  far  from  them.  It  seemed  to  them  that  the 
noise  was  caused  by  the  walking  of  a  carabao,  which 
was  going  along  the  road  in  the  same  direction  they 
were  going.  They  could  not  tell  whether  it  was  a  cara- 
bao or  not,  for  the  grass  was  very  tall.  At  last  at  an 
open  side  of  the  road,  where  the  noise  was,  Pedro  saw 
a  little  white  dog.  **  Mariano,  Mariano,  see  that  little 
dog,"  whispered  Pedro,  touching  the  back  of  his  brother 
with  his  finger.  Pedro  looked  at  it  with  great  surprise. 
He  could  hardly  believe  that  the  little  creature  could 
make  such  a  loud  noise.  The  oftener  they  looked  at 
the  dog,  the  larger  it  appeared.  Pedro  now  began  to 
think  that  this  dog  was  the  one  that  somebody  had  seen 


64  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NAKBATIVES 

under  the  calumpang.  He  was  afraid;  he  would. not 
go  behind  nor  before  his  brother ;  his  hair  stood  on  end, 
and  h«  felt  as-  if  he  were  wearing  a  hat  having  a  large 
brim;  his  heart  beat  faster  than  before,  but  he  said 
not  a  word.  The  appearance  of  the  dog  reminded 
Mariano  of  the  black  man  of  the  calumpang.  For  this 
reason  he  was  more  afraid  than  his  little  brother. 

After  a  while  a  noise  was  again  heard  on  the  other 
side  of  the  road.  There  appeared  a  white  hog  about 
the  size  of  a  carabao.  It  was  also  going  in  the  same 
direction  as  the  two  brothers  were.  The  hog  was  grunt- 
ing, while  there  was  seen  coming  from  his  mouth  a 
continuous  discharge  of  living  charcoals.  The  minute 
the  boys  stopped,  the  dog  and  the  hog  stopped  also. 
The  two  brothers  intended  to  go  back,  but  suddenly 
they  heard  another  noise — pac,  pac,  pac.  They  looked 
behind  them  and  saw  a  tall  black  horse  mounted  by  a 
man  dressed  like  the  prince  usually  seen  in  comedies. 
The  man's  feet  were  so  long  that  they  almost  touched 
the  ground.  The  two  brothers  could  do  nothing 
but  walk  faster,  in  order  that  the  horseman  might  not 
overtake  them. 

When  they  came  near  the  calumpang,  a  black  cloth 
was  extended  across  the  road.  This  cloth  prevented 
their  further  advance,  for  it  would  bind  them  in  case 
they  should  touch  it.  Mariano  was  then  so  much  fright- 
ened that  he  could  not  keep  from  trembling.  He  felt 
as  if  the  very  hand  of  the  black  man  of  the  calumpang 
was  holding  his  head. 

** Father,  father!"  cried  Pedro  with  a  prolonged 
voice,  but  nobody  answered.  The  dog  growled;  the 
horse  pounded  the  ground  with  his  feet ;  the  hog  snorted, 


THE  PRIMITIVE-RELIGIOUS  GROUP  65 

while  a  greater  amount  of  charcoal  than  before  poured 
out  of  its  mouth;  the  black  cloth  waved,  producing  a 
sound  like  the  groaning  of  a  sick  man.  Pedro  grabbed 
his  brother  by  the  waist  so  tightly  that  Mariano  could 
hardly  breathe.  Then  Mariano  remembered  that  he  had 
in  his  pocket  the  remainder  of  a  candle  which  a  sexton 
had  given  him  at  the  procession.  He  quickly  lighted  it. 
Instantly  the  ghosts  disappeared.  Mariano  and  Pedro 
reached  home,  but  alas  1  they  could  neither  eat  nor  sleep, 
for  it  seemed  to  them  as  if  the  ghosts  were  still  around 
them.  — Eusebio  Ramos. 

IV.    The  Nursery  Saga  or  Marchen 

The  ethnologists  are  not  agreed  concerning  the 
history  of  nursery  sagas,  or  marchen,  as  they  call  them. 
Whether  such  stories  as  **Jack-the-Giant- 
Killer'*  are  reduced  and  modified  forms  of 
once  greater  sagas  or  whether  they  are  immature  stories 
arrested  in  their  growth  toward  sagas,  the  scientists  are 
still  discussing.  But  happily  for  the  narrator,  as  we  no- 
ticed before,  the  question  of  origin  is  not  of  prime 
importance.  He  need  consider  it  only  so  far  as  it 
helps  to  reveal  the  distinctions  of  the  type. 

As  the  generic  title  indicates,  nursery  sagas  are 
tales  told  to  children  after  lessons  are  done.  Nobody 
wants  instruction;  nobody  wants  facts.  **Once  upon  a 
time  in  a  certain  village"  is  definite  enough.  What  the 
listener  desires  is  action,  things  a-doing,  Jack  to  kill 
the  giant,  Cinderella  to  marry  the  prince,  Tom  Thumb 
to  get  safely  home.  The  end  is  always  happy,  no  mat- 
ter how  many  troubles  the  hero  or  heroine  encounters 
daring  the  course  of  the  narrative.       The  brothers 


ge  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NABRATIVES 

Grimm  expressed  their  realization  that  such  an  end  is 
essential  to  a  mdrchen.  Their  devoted  scientific  collect- 
ing and  their  charmingly  sympathetic  retelling  have 
given  back  not  only  to  Germany  but  also  to  the  whole 
world  much  of  its  otherwise  lost  pleasure. 

Good  native  nursery  sagas  ere  scarce  in  English. 
Many  of  our  best  known,  like  Cinderella,  are  importa- 
Enffllsh  ^^ons.  '*Jack-the-Giant-Killer"  and  **Jack 
nursery  and  the  Bean-Stalk ' '  and  '  ^  fiumpelstiltskin ' ' 
sagas  _^^  .^rp^jj^  ,p.^  rp^^  ,,  ^  ^j^g  qJ^^j.  vision 

has  it — ^are  recorded,  however,  as  of  English  origin. 
They  have  been  handed  down  verbally  and  in  chap- 
books  and  various  other  written  forms  for  hundreds 
of  years. 

The  most  important  distinguishing  element  of  a 
nursery  saga  is  the  kind  of  hero.  He  is  always  human, 
Dlstin-  very  often  sagacious  of  himself  as  well  as 
guishing  finally  fortunate  because  of  the  aid  of  some 
—the  kind  supernatural  being  or  charm ;  but  before  the 
of  hero  beginning  of  his  adventure  he  is  pretty  gen- 
erally considered  foolish  or  a  lazy  ne'er-do-well.  He 
is  always  of  obscure  origin,  and  is  persistently  ignored 
by  history.  The  place  where  he  lives  or  where  he  per- 
forms his  deeds  is  selected  at  random,  is  of  no  prac- 
tical importance,  and  might  just  as  well  have  been 
any  other.  If  the  locality  is  definite  and  the  details 
of  the  story  are  really  pertinent,  we  have  crossed  the 
borderland  into  legend,  which  is  very  near  to  nupsery 
saga.  Indeed,  say  the  students  of  folk-lore,  the  same 
story  is  often  told  in  one  country  as  a  nursery  saga 
and  in  another  as  a  dignified  national  epic. 

The   uncouth    rhymes    occurring   here    and    there 


THE  PRIMITIVE-RELIGIOUS  OROUP  67 

within  the  story  are  to  the  nursery  saga  what  the  re- 
frain is  to  the  ballad — a  sure  sign  of  its  type.    All  the 
original  tales  I  dare  say  had  rhymes  at  first, 
even  if  many  are  without  them  to-day.  nymes 

The  artificial  nursery  saga  is  not  always  marked 
off  closely  from  the  fairy  story.  Some  writers  do  not 
appear  to  have  felt  the  traditional  distinctions;  but, 
when  a  differentiation  is  made,  it  is  on  the  basis  of  the 
chief  actor.  The  irresistible  Alice  is  a  true  nursery 
saga  heroine.  Whether  in  **  Wonderland"  or 
''Through  the  Looking  Glass"  her  adventures  are  her 
adventures,  and  not  a  fairy's.  And  although  the  dia- 
logue of  the  characters  is  imposed  by  the  brilliant 
naivete  of  the  author,  it  is  yet  clearly  within  our 
classification — as  the  delectable  rhymes  attest. 

Another  characteristic  you  will  observe  is  the  repe- 
titi<Hi  of  situation:  Cinderella  goes  to  the  ball  more 
than  onee ;  Jack-of-the-Bean-Stalk  visits  the  Eepetition 
castle  in  the  sky  three  times;  the  king's  wife  of  situation 
is  allowed  two  false  guessM;  and  there  are  Cormelian's 
and  Thunderdell's  heads  to  be  cut  off  as  well  and 
Gallingantus's. 

Two  of  our  worthy  literary  men,  G.  K.  Chesterton 
and  Bernard  Shaw,  have  recently  bandied  words  over 
the  value  and  significance  of  such  heroes  as  Jack. 
When  you  come  to  write  an  original  nursery  saga,  you 
can  deeide  for  yourself  whether  you  want  your  hero 
to  conquer  a  foe  greater  and  stronger  than  he  or 
whether  you  want  your  hero  to  conquer  a  foe  lesser 
than  he  because  he  himself  is  greater  and  stronger 
than  all  his  foes  and  conquers  by  the  magic  force  of 
bis  personality.    In  making  the  decision,  however,  you 


68  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

should  remember  that  ''greater"  and  '* lesser '*  are 
ttrms  subject  to  a  number  of  varying  interpretations. 

After  you  have  decided  which  kind  your  hero  is  to 
be,  you  must  set  about  making  him  human  despite 
the  wonderful  deeds  you  mean  him  to  do.  The  more 
human,  the  more  interesting ;  but  he  must  be  naturally 
human,  not  merely  philosophically  so.  The  homeliest 
touches  of  every-day  life  are  exactly  in  keeping  with 
your  subject.  No  poetry  here.  If  you  have  metrics 
interspersed,  they  must  be  ''from  jigging  veins  or 
rhyming  mother  wits."  Nothing  higher  than  -*Pee, 
fi,  fo,  fum,"  or  ** Ninny,  ninny  not,"  or  ''Be  bold,  be 
bold,  but  not  too  bold,"  or  "It  is  not  so,  nor  'twas  not 
so,  but  indeed  God  forbid  it  should  be  so."  Al- 
though your  hero  is  to  be  human,  he  need  not  stand 
alone;  he  may  have  supernatural  aid.  A  fairy,  a 
witch,  a  charm,  or  anting-anting  may  help  him.  Sue- 
cess,  of  course,  however,  must  ultimately  depend  upon 
his  own  bravery  and  wit.  What  makes  the  nursery 
Supematu-  saga  different  from  the  faify  story  is  just 
ral  element  the  element  of  the  independence  and  promi- 
nence of  the  human  hero.  If  supernatural  agents  are 
present  in  the  nursery  saga,  they  are  only  assistants: 
they  are  not  the  chief  actors ;  in  fact,  they  are  usually  at 
first  opponents.     The  human  person  is  the  chief  actor. 

Tolstoy's  Ivan  the  Fool  surely  wins  by  the  force 
of  his  personality  alone.  He  is  one  of  the  pure  foohr 
who  think  no  evil  and  therefore  make  men  good. 
Although  he  has  the  power  the  imps  have  given  him  to 
call  up  soldiers,  rub  gold  out  of  oak  leaves,  and  to 
cure  the  sick,  he  uses  this  powe^  only  for  fool-wise 
ends:    he   heals   beggars,    gives   away   the    gold,    and 


THE  PRIMTTrVE-BELIGIOUS  GBOUP  69 

makes  the  soldiers  sing.  Despite  its  didactic  purpose^ 
this  is  a  typical  mdrchen  in  having  the  human  fool 
hero  in  repeated  situations,  chanting  crude  rhymes^ 
and  being  assisted  finally  by  the  supernatural  agents 
that  first  opposed  him. 

When  you  come  to  the  writing,  remember  that  your 
story  is  for  a  child,  grown-up  or  not  grown-up,  and 
that  you  must  therefore  make  the  language  j^f^^ 
simple  and  vivid.  Use  a  good  many  crude  speoific 
similes  and  metaphores.  Be  concrete  in  com-  «u««e8tions 
parisons  about  size,  shape,  color,  garb»,  and  the  like. 
Though  you  select  your  hero  with  care,  yon  need  make 
no  fine  distinctions  of  character,  since  broad  strokes 
will  be  most  eflfective.  Ezidow  your  personages,  both 
the  hero  and  his  enemy,  with  a  few  mannerisms  and 
let  them  display  these  often.  Get  quickly  into  the 
action  of  the  story  and  keep  things  lively  to  the  end. 

Here  is  the  working  definition:  A  nursery  saga- 
is  a  narrative  of  imaginary  events  wherein  is  cele- 
brated a  hero  of  a  more*or-less  humble  working 
origin,  a  child's  hero,  who,  by  his  own  wit'  deaaitton 
and  energy,  together  with  the  possession  of  a  chavm, 
is  enabled  to  do  stupendous  deeds,  which  bring  to  him 
material  happiness. 

Princess  Helioiia  tbe  Fair 

We  say  that  we  are  wise  folks,  but  ottr  people  disf 
pute  the  fact,  saying,  **No,  no,  we  were  wiser  tiian  you 
are."  But  shaskas  tell  us  that  before  our  grandfathers 
had  learned  anything,  before  their  grandfathers  were 
bom 

There  lived  in  a  certain  land  an  old  man  of  this 


70  TYPES  OF  PKOSE  NABBATIVES 

kind  who  iixstructed  his  thre6  sons  in  reading  and  writ- 
ihg  and  all  book  learning.  Then  he  said  to  them,  ''Now, 
my  children,  when  I  die,  mind  you,  come  and  read 
prayers  over  my  grave.'* 

''Very  good,  father,  very  good,'*  they  replied. 

The  two  elder  brothers  were  such  fine  strapping 
fellows,  so  tall  and  stoat!  But  as  for  the  youngest 
one,  Ivan,  he  was  like  a  half-grown  lad  or  a  half- 
fledged  duckling,  terribly  inferior  to  the  others.  Well, 
their  old  father  died.  At  that  very  time  there  came 
tidings  from  thp  king  that  his  daughter,  the  Princess 
Helena  the  Fair,  had  ordered  a  shrine  to  be  built  for 
her  with  twelve  columns,  with  twelve  rows  of  beams. 
In  that  shrine  she  was  sitting  upon  a  high  throne  and 
awaiting  her  bridegroom,  the  bold  young  youth  who 
with  a  single  bound  of  his  swift  steed  should  reach  high 
enough  to  kiss  her  on  the  lips.  A  stir  ran  through  the 
whole  youth;  of  the  nation.  They  took  to  licking  their 
lips  and  scratching  their  heads,  and  wondering  to  whose 
share  so  great  an  honor  would  fall. 

''Brothers,"  said;  Vanyusha  (Ivan)^  *'QU[r  father  is 
diead;  which  of  ^sm  is  to  read  prayers  over  his  grave?" 

*' Whoever  feels  inclined,  let  him  go!"  answered  the 
brothers. 

So  Vanya  went.  But  as  for  his  elder  brothers  they 
did  nothing  but '  exercise  their  horses  and  curl  their 
hair  and  dyetheifc mustaches. 

The  second  night  came. 

"Brothers,":  said  Vietnya,  '*IVe  done  my  share  of 
reading.    It  is  your  turn  now;  which  of  you  will  go?" 

"Whoever  likes  can  go  and  read.  We've  business 
to  look  after;  don't  you  meddle." 


THE  PBIMITIVE-KELIGIOUS  GROUP  71 

And  they  cocked  their  c^ps  and  shouted  and  whooped 
and  flew  this  way  and  shot  that  way  and  roved  about 
the  open  country. 

So  Vanyusha  read  prayers  this  time  also— and  on 
the  third  night,  too. 

Well,  his  brothers  got  ready  their  horses,  combed 
out  their  mustaches  and  prepared  to  go  next  morning 
to  test  their  mettle  before  the  eyes  of  Helena  the  Fair. 

' '  Shall  we  take  the  youngster  ? ' '  they  thought.  *  *  No, 
no.  What  would  be  the  good  of  him?  He'd  make 
folks  laugh  and  put  us  to  confusion;  let's  go  by  our- 
selves." 

So  away  they  went.  But  Vanyusha  wanted  very 
much  to  have  a  look  at  the  Princess  Helena  the  Fair. 
He  cried,  cried  bitterly,  and  went  out  to  his  father's 
grave.  And  his  father  heard  him  in  his  coffin,  and 
catfie  out  to  him,  shook  the  damp  earth  off  his  body, 
and  said,  ** Don't  grieve,  Vanya.  I'll  help  you  in  your 
trouble." 

And  immediately  the  old  man  drew  himself  up  and 
straightened  himself  and  called  aloud  and  whistled  witt^ 
a  ringing  voice,  with  a  shrill  whistle. 

From  goodness  knows  where  appeared  a  horse,  the 
earth  quaking  beneath  it,  a  flame  rushing  from  its  ears 
and  nostrils.  To  and  fro  it  flew,  and  then  stood  still 
before  the  old  man,  as  if  rooted  in  the  ground,  and 
cried,  '*What  are  thy  commands?" 

Vanya  crept  into  one  of  the  horse's  ears  and  out  of 
the  other,  and  turned  into  such  a  hero  as  no  skazka  can 
tell  of,  no  pen  describe!  He  mounted  the  horse,  set 
his  arms  akimbo,  and  flew,  just  like  a  falcon,  straight 
to  the  home  of  the  Princess  Helena.    With  a  wave  of 


72  TYPES  OF  PEOSE  NAJRBATIVES 

his  hand,  with  a  bound  aloft,  he-  failed  only  by  the 
breadth  of  two  rows  of  beams.  Back  again  he  turned, 
galloped  up,  leapt  aloft,  and  got  within  one  beam  row's 
breadth.  Once  more  he  turned;  once  more  he  wheeled, 
then  shot  past  the  eye  -  like  a  streak  of  fiite,  took  an 
accurate  aim,  and  kissed  the  fair  Helena  right  on  the 
lips! 

**Who  is  he?  "Who  is  he?  Stop  him !'*  was  the  cry. 
Not  a  trace  of  him  was  to  be  found  I 

Away  he  galloped  to  his  father's  grave,  let  the  horse 
go  free,  prostrated  himself  on  the  earth,  and  besought 
his  father's  counsel.  And  the  old  man  held  counsel 
with  him. 

When  he  got  home,  he  behaved  as  if  he  hadn't  been 
anywhere.  His  brothers  talked  away,  describing  where 
they  had  been,  what  they  had  seen,  and  he  listened  to 
them  as  of  old. 

The  next  day  there  was  a  gathering  again.  In  the 
princely  halls  there  were  more  boyars  and  nobles  than 
A  single  glance  could  take  in.  The  elder  brothers  rode 
there.  Their  younger  brother  went  there,  too,  but  on 
foot,  meekly  and  modestly,  just  as  if  he  hadn't  kissed 
the  Princess,  and  seated  himself  in  a  distant  corner. 
The  Princess  Helena  asked  for  her  bridegroom,  wanted 
to  show  him  to  the  world  at  large,  wanted  to  give  him 
half  her  kingdom;  but  thd  bridegroom  did  not  put  in 
an  appearance!  Search  was  made  for  him  among  the 
boyars,  among  the  generals;  everyone  was  examined 
in  his  turn— but  with  no  result!  Meanwhile,  Vanya 
looked  on,  smiling  and  chuckling,  and  waiting  till  the 
bride  should  come  to  him  herself. 

**I  pleased  her  then,"  says  he,  ''when  I  appeared  as 


THE  PEIMITIVE-EELIGIOUS  GROUP  73 

a  gay  gallant;  now  let  her  fall  in  love  with  nie  in  my 
plain,  caftan." 

Then  vsp  she  Tose,  looked  around  with  bright  eyes 
that  shed  a  radiance  on  all  who  stood  there,  and  saw 
and  knew  her  bridegroom,  and  made  him  take  his  seat 
by  her  side,  and  speedily  was  wedded  to  hira4  And  h^ 
— ^good  heavens!  How  clever  he  turned  out,  and  how 
brave,  and  what  a  handsome  fellow!  Only  see  him 
mount  his  flying  steed,  give  his  cap  a  cock,  and  stick 
his  elbows  akimbo!  Why,  you'd  say  he  was  a  king, 
a  born  king!  You'd  never  suspect  he  was  once  only 
Vanyusha. 

From    "Russian   Fairy   and  Folk   Tales."     Translated   and 
edited  by  W.  B.  S.  Balston  (Hurst  and  Company). 

Juan  the  Ouesser 

Onfce  there  lived  a  youth  by  the  name  of  Juan.  He 
was  the  only  son  of  a  family  and  bo  he  was  dearly  loved. 
One  day  his  father  said  to  him,  '*Juan,  you  are  quite 
old  now  so  you  have  to  study."  **Ye8,  father,''  said 
Juan  obediently.  Juan  was  then  sent  to  a  large  town 
to  school.  But  he  did  not  study.;  he  spent  all  his  time 
going  to  places  of  amusement.  When  vacation  was  com- 
ing near,  Juan  bought  a  reader  so  that  he  could  give 
proof  that  he  studied.  His  father  was  very  anxious 
to  see  him  and  so  prepared  a  large  fiesta  in  honor  of 
his  arrival.  When  Juan  arrived,  he  would  not  speak  his 
dialect,  and  if  he  was  asked  something  he  just  answered 
**Si,  sefior.''  Everybody  then  was  astonished;  for  all 
thought  that  he  had  learned  so  much  that  he  had  for- 
gotten his  own  dialect. 

One  day  Juan  threw  his  father's  plqw  iuto  a  weU 


74:  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NABBATIVES 

because  he  wanted  to  show  the  people  that  he  knew  how 
to  divine.  The  father  came  to  him  then  and  said,  **Dear 
Juan,  will  you  tell  me  where  I  can  find  the  plow  which 
I  lost  yesterday?"  *'Ah,  father!"  said  Juan,  ''there 
is  no  difficulty  in  finding  it;  fetch  my  book  and  I  will 
look  it  up."  The  father  obeyed  instantly  and  Juan 
looked  in  his  book  and  said: 

''A  B  C,  A  B  C, 

Oh,  my  father's  plow  is  lost! 
A  B  C,  A  B  C, 

It  has  the  well  for  a  host." 

*'Well,  my  book  tells  me  that  it  is  in  the  bottom 
of  the  well."  The  father  ordered  the  servants  to  look 
in  the  well,  and  sure  enough  they  found  the  plow  in  it. 
The  father  was  very  proud  of  his  son  now,  for  he  had 
had  a  real  proof  of  his  ability.  So  Juan  was  called 
prophet  and  his  name  was  heard  everywhere. 

Once  the  princess  of  his  country  lost  a  very  valuable 
ring,  and  the  king  offered  to  marry  her  to  the  one  who 
could  find  the  ring.  But  he  ordered  that  anyone  who 
might  attempt  and  not  guess  rightly  should  be  beheaded. 
Many  of  the.  wise  men  in  the  kingdom  attempted  to 
guess,  but  nobody  was  right  and  so  they  had  to  be  killed. 
The  rumors  of  Juan's  knowledge  reached  the  king's 
ears,  so  he  sent  a  carriage  to  his  home  in  order  to  , 
bring  him  to  the  palace.  Juan  did  not  want  to  go  be- 
cause he  knew  that  he  would  surely  be  killed.  He  could 
not  disobey  the  king,  however,  and  so  he  got  into  the 
carriage.  As  soon  as  he  entered  the  carriage  he  became 
very  sad  and  thoughtful  and  repented  of  having  tricked 


THE  PEIMITIVE-RELIJGIOUS  GEOUP  ^6 

his  father.     When  they  were  quite  nfeair  the.  tofWA  of 
the  king,  Juan  opened  his  book  and  gl'oaned.  sadly : 

''Someone  is  to  die, 

Not  far  from  here,  oh,  my !'' 

Instantly  the  carriage  stopped  and  the  driver  pre- 
sented himself  before  Juan  and  said,  *'0h,  sir!  .  I  beg 
you  to  pardon  me;  I  am  the  one  who  stole  the  princess's 
ring.  She  was  washing  her  hands  in  a. dish  one  day 
and  took  the  rihg  oflf  hei*  hand,  aad  then  threw  the 
water  away".  While  I  was  cleaning  the  garden  I  saw 
it  and  picked  it  up.  Kindly  forgive  me,  here  is  the 
ring ! ' '  Juan  did  not  take  the  ring,  but  said, '  *  I  forgive 
you  now;  I  thought  you  would  not  tell  me  anything 
about  it,  and  I  was  going  to  tell  the  king  to  haire  you 
killed,  for  I  knew  that  you  were  the  one  who  stole  it; 
my  book  said  so.  As  soon  as  we  arrive  dt  the  palaee> 
place  the  ring  under  the  stairs  and  cover  it  with  a 
cocoaiiut  shell."  The  driver  was  very  happy  and  prom- 
ised to  do  everything  he  was  commanded. 

Juan  was  received  with  honors  in  the  palace  and 
when  he  was  asked  about  the  ring,  he  told  everything 
about  the  theft  Of  it  from  the  information  he  had  got 
from  the  driver  and  said,  *'My  book  tells  me  all  bf  this 
and  says  that  now  it  is  under  a  cocoanut  shall  under 
the  stairs.-'  Everybody  went  down  to  look  for  it. and 
they  found  it.  Once  more  now  Juan's  knowledgfe  was 
talked  of  everywhere.  According  to  the  king's  promise, 
he  was  married  to  the  priocess;  The  marriage  ceremony 
was  celebrated  with  much  pomp  and  splendor,  and  many 
kings  from  different  countries  came  to  attend  it, 


76  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NAHRATIVES 

Oncfe  a  neighbor  king  came  to  Juan's  country.  When 
he  went  to  the  palace  and  met  the  other  king,  he  said, 
**If  your  son-in-law  is  really  a  prophet,  I  propose  to  you 
a  wager.  I  have  three  watermelons  in  my  ship ;  one  of 
them  has  one  seed,  the  other  has  two,  and  the  other  has 
three.  Should  your  son-in-law  guess  which  has  one, 
which  has  tw6,  and  whidi  has  three  seeds,  I  will  give 
you  half  .of  my  kingdom.  But  if  he  fails,  you  will  have 
to  give  me  half  of  yours."  Tlie  king  was  well  pleased 
to  hear  the  proposal,  and  being  confident  of  Juan's 
knowledge,  he  accepted  it  Fortunately,  while  the  two 
kings  were  conversing,  the  vassals  of  the  foreign  king 
stood  near  the  door  of  Juan's  room  and  talked  about 
the  watermelons.  One  of  them  said,  "If  I  were  the 
one  to  guess  I  would  say  that  the  smallest  has  three  seeds, 
the  largest  has  two,  and  the  middle-sized  has  one,  then 
I  should  be  very  rich  and  would  be  as  powerful  a  king 
AS  our  master."  Juan,  after  hearing  all  that  the 
men  had  said,  went  to  his  bed  and  pretended  to  be 
^wleep.  When  the  foreign  king  had  gone  away,  his  fa- 
ther-in-law went  to  awake  him  in  his  room,  and  told 
him  everything  about  the  challenge.  Juan  said  that  he 
was,  afraid  of  no  defiance  so  long  as  he  had  his  book. 
The  next  morning,  when  the  king  and  he  went  to  the 
boat,  Juan  told  exactly  the  number  of  seeds  in  each  wa- 
termelon, according  to  what  he  had  heard,  after  reading, 
or  ratiher  feigning  to  read,  some  characters  in  his  book. 
The  fruits  were  cut  open  then  and  it  was  found  out 
that  Juan  was  right.  The  king,  his  father-in-law,  was 
very  happy  and  liked  Juan  very  much,  for  he  said  that 
Juan  was,  without  any  doubt,  the  wisest  man  the  world 
ever  knew. 


THE  PRIMITIVEBELIGIOUS  GROUP  <tf 

Not  long  after  this  another  king  came  on  a  large 
ship  loaded  with  money.  He  came  to  propose  another 
challenge.  He  said  that  he  had  three  earthen  jara,  filled 
with  salt,  water,  and  rinegar.  And  if  Juan  should  guess 
what  each  contained,  tiie  load  of  this  ship  would  be  his 
father-in-law's;  but  if  he  should  fail,  the  Mng  had  to 
give  him  in  turn  another  ship  full  of  money  aIso«  The 
king  accepted  the  proposal  immediately;  but  Juan  was 
very  sad  because  he  knew  that  the  king  would  order 
him  to  be  beheaded  if  he  should  not  guess  rightly.  So 
he  decided  to  commit  suicide  before  the  day  when  Im 
should  appear  before  the  contending  monarchs.  During 
the  night  he  went  down  silently  and  threw  himself  in 
the  river  behind  the  palace,  in  which  the  foreign  ship 
was  anchored.  He  tried  to  drown  himself,  but  he  could 
not,  for  he  knew  how  to  swim.  He  heard  then  some 
men  talking  in  the  ship,  and  one  of  them  said^  '*If 
that  guesser  could  just  know  that  the  jar  with  white 
marking  on  the  neck  contains  salt,  and  the  one  which 
has  the  largest  lid  holds  vinegar,  he  would  be  the  rich- 
est man  on  earth."  Juan  swam  quietly  back  after 
hearing  this  and  slept.  The  next  morning  Juan  and 
the  king  went  to  the  ship,  and  Juan,  after  tursing 
back  and  forth  the  leaves  of  his  read^,  told  rightly  the 
contents  of  every  jar.  The.  king  was  very  happy  and 
held  a  large  festival  in  honior  of  the  wise  Juan  the 
Prophet. 

Juan  was  afraid  to  hazard  his  life  any  more,  so  lie 
burned  his  magic  volume.  From  that  time^on  he  never 
guessed  any  more,  because  he  said  that  his  book  was 
gone  and  so  his  knowledge,  too. 

— ^Bienv^nido.  Gon^^ales. 


78  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

Tlie  Sheiplierd  WlM)  Bepame  King 
Many  years:  before  the  birtji  of  Christ,  when  the 
victorious  legions  of  £k)me  were  graduall]y^  conquering 
tiie  then  known  world,  there  lived  in  a  foreign  country 
a  isruel  and  despotic-  king. .  He  had  a  daughter  in  the 
very  bloom  and  f  reidiness  of  youth.  She  was  so  beauti- 
ful'that  many  a  young  man  of  the  country  asked  her 
father  to  allow  him  to  be  his  son4n-law.  The  suitors 
were  so' many  that  the  king  determined  to  marry  his 
daughter  to  somebody.  But  he  could  not  find  the  right 
man:  He  sent  proclamations  to  the  diflEerent  provinces 
of  his  kingdom,  telling  the  people  that  he  intended  to 
marry  his  daughter  to  the  man  who'  could  accomplish 
three  things  which  the  king  would  require  the.eonitpeti- 
tor  to  do ;  but  if  the  competitor  shoiild  fail  to  do  the 
three  things  within  the  required  time,-  his  head  should 
be  cut  off.  •  Many  young  men  attempted,,  but  they  were 
all  killed. 

Near  the  king?s  palace  there  was  Living  at  that  time 
^shepherd.  This  man  had,  since  his  boyhood^  devoted 
his  life  to  the  interests  of  his  fellow  countrymen.  Every- 
body loved  him. 

One  day  while  he  was  tending  his  sheep  out  in  the 
fields,  an  Did  woman  saw  him  and  said,  **  Receive  this 
pipe  as  a  present  from  me.  "Whenever  you  want  any- 
thing from  any  animal,  blow  this  pipe  and  the  desired 
animal  will  come  to  you.  Keep  this  carefully  for  it 
win  be  of  great  service  to  you*"  The  shepherd  thanked 
her  and  went  away.  He  wanted  to  know  whether  the 
woman  was  telling  the  truth  or  not  So  he  blew  the 
pipe  and  said,  *^Come  here,  all  the 'serpents.?'  He 
no  sooner  said  these  \tords  than  hundreds  of  serpents 


THE  PBIMITIVE-BELIGIOUS  GROUP  79 

oame  to  him  hissing  and  twisting.  Then  he  dismissed 
them. 

He  decided  to  compete  for  the  haiid  of  the  princess. 
So  he  went  to  the  palace  in  the  evening  and  expressed 
his  desire.  **Ha!  ha!"  said  the  king,  **do  you  want 
to  hav^  your  head  cut  oflf,  young  manf "  **We  will  see 
the  result,"  said  the  shepherd  proudly.  **A11  right/' 
said  the  king;  'Hhe  first  thing  you  must  do  is  to  eat 
in  one  day  all  of  the  bread  there  is  to  be  found  in  my 
granary.  You  must  either  eat  the  bread  or  lose  your 
head." 

**I  will  go  to  the  granary  now  and  begin  eating," 
said  the  shepherd. 

*'Well,  go!"  said  the  king,  and  he  told  a  soldier  to 
conduct  the  shepherd  to  the  granary.  The  shepherd 
was  locked  up  in  the  granary  with  nobody  but  himself 
and  the  bread.  He  took  out  the  pipe  which  he  had  con- 
cealed imder  his  coat.  He  blew  the  instrument  and  said, 
**Come  here,  all  of  the  rats."  He  had  just  finished  his 
command  when  thousands  of  rats  came  to  him.  He  told 
them  to  eat  all  of  the  bread.  The  rats  were  so  numerous 
that  all  of  the  bread  was  eaten  before  daybreak.  Not  a 
single  crumb  was  left.  Many  rats  arrived  too  late  to  get 
their  share. 

When  the  king  and  his  court  went  to  the  granary 
in  the  morning,  they  were  surprised  to  see  that  the 
building  which  was  full  of  bread  the  day  before  was  now 
totally  empty.  **A11  right/'  said  the  king,  **you  have 
to  do  the  second  thing.  You  must  separate  in  one  day 
the  grains  of  com  from  the  grains  of  rice.  Go  to  my 
granary,  where  you  will  find  the  com  and  the  rice.  Re- 
member the  punishment." 


go  TYPES  OF  I^OBE  KARRATlVS^ 

**A11  right,"  said  the  shepherd;  *'I'U  go  to  the 
granary  this  evening  and  begin  my  work." 

So  he  went  to  the  building  where  the  com  and  the 
rice  were  and  there  he  was  locked  up  again^  He  then 
blew  his  pipe  and  said,  **Come  here,  all  of  the  ants." 
Jnst  then  millions  of  antfl  arrived.  He  told  the  big  ants 
to  pick  lip  all  of  the  grains  of  com  and  place  them  on 
one  side  of  the  granary.  To  the  small  ants  h^  assigiied 
the  work  of  selecting  the  grains  of  rice  and  placing  them 
on  the  other  side  of  the  buildipg.  The  ants  were  so  nu- 
merous that  the  entire  work^was  finished  before  morning. 

The  king  and  his  court  were  surprised  to  see  that 
the  shepherd  had  done  his  work.  *'.Very  well,"  said 
the  king,  ''you  have  to  accomplifeh  the  third  and  last 
thing  and  then  you  may  marry  my  daughter." 

'*I'll  do  the  work  this  afternoon,"  said  the  shepherd. 
**Oodd!"  said  the  king.  "Come  here  this  afternoon  at 
two  o  •  clock.  1 11  give  you  twelve  wild  hares.  Tomorrow 
afternoon  at  two  o'clock  you  must  return  them  to  me 
without  a  change  in  any  of  them.  The  number  must  be 
exact." 

At  two  o'clock  in  the  afternoon  the  shepherd  went 
to  the  palace.  The  king  gave  him  the  twelve  hares. 
They  were  no  sooner  in  the  hands  of  the  shepherd  than 
they  ran  away.^  The  king  and  his  oourt  laughed  loudly 
arid  said,  ^'He  will  not  catch  them.  He  is  sure  to  fail 
in  his  work." 

'  *  We  will  see, ' '  said  the  shepherd  proudly.  He  then 
i<rent  to  his  cottagie.  He  blew  liis  pipe  and  said,  **Gbme 
all  of  the  twelve  hares  of  the  king."  He  had  no  sooner 
said  these  words  than  the  twelve  hares  came  to  him  and 
began  to  jump  about  him. 


THE  PHIMITIVE-RELIGIOUS  GROUP  gi 

An  hour  later  the  king  sent  one  of  his  servants  to 
see  whether  the  shepherd  was  out  looking  for  the  hares 
or  not.  When  the  servant  reached  the  shepherd's  oot-i 
tage,  he  was  surprised  to  see  the  hares  sleeping  quietly 
by  the  side  of  the  shepherd.  The  servant  went  back  to 
the  king  and  rela;ted  to  him  all  that  he  saw.  .The  king 
grew  pale  and  did  not  know  what  to  do.  He  told  the 
princess  to  go  to  the  shepherd  and  try  to  get  one  of  th^ 
hares.  So  the  princess  disguised  herself  as  a  country 
girl  and  went  to  the  shepherd's  cottage.  The  Ebepherd 
recognized  her  immediately.  Her  solicitations  were  aH 
in  vain.  At  last  the  shepherd  said,  ''111  give  you  one 
of  the  hares  if  you  scirub  my  kitchen  for  me."  To  pre-^ 
vent  herself  from  being  married  to  the  shepherd  she 
said  *'Yes."  So  the  shepherd  told  her  to  do  her  work; 
When  she  had  finished  her  work,  the  shepherd  gave  her 
one  of'  the  hares.  When  she  was  a  hundred  yards  from 
the  shehperd's  cottage,  the  shepherd  blew  his  pipe  and 
said,  '*Oome  here,  the  hare  with  the  princess. '^  .  He 
had  just  finished  speaking  when  the  hare  ran  away  from 
the  prinieess  to  the  side  of  the  cottage. 

The  princess  was  crying  when  she  reached  the  pal- 
ace and  told  the  king  how  she  had  been  fooled.  The 
king  determined  to  get  one  of  the  hares  by  meaniS  of 
money.  So  he  disguised  himself  as  a  merchant,  mounted 
a  horse  with  two  panniers  slung  on  the  sides,  and  went  to 
the  shepherd's  cottage.  But  the  shepherd  recognized 
him  at  once.  His  solicitations  also  were  in  vain.  Even 
the  bag  of  gold  was  useless.  The  shepherd  would  not 
allow  himself  to  be  fooled.  At  last  he  said,  **I'll  give 
'you  one  of  the  hares  if  you  wash  my  feet."  To  prevent 
the  marriage  of  the  princess  with  the  shepherd,  the  king 


84  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

this  ancient  politician  was  once  a  slave  and  that  he 
rose  from  his  servile  condition  to  be  the  counsellor  of 
kings  by  the  sheer  force  of  his  brains  and  an  apprecia- 
tion of  practical  problems  (much  as  our  self-made  men 
of  today  have  risen).  Once  even,  when  sent  as  a  royal 
messenger  to  a  rebellious  and  distant  part  of  the  em- 
pire, he  quelled  a  mob  and  saved  his  own  life  by  his 
ready  wit  in  telling  a  story  and  applying  the  moral. 
He  wrote  nothing  himself,  legend  goes  on  to  admit, 
but  he  scattered  his  practical  narratives  far  and  wide, 
and  they  were  finally  collected  as  a  distinct  species  of 
literature. 

"Whatever  the  truth  of  the  legend  may  be,  it  is  cer- 
tain that  there  were  in  the  Greek  language  early  col- 
lections of  fables  called  *'u^sop.*'  More 
ftSSiste^^  than  three  hundred  years  before  Christ, 
Socrates,  Plato,  and  Aristotle  translated 
stories  from  **^sop.*'  Plutarch  and  Luciati,  in  the 
second  century  after  Christ,  remade  them.  In  the 
thirteenth  century  Marie  de  France  versified  a  hun- 
dred of  them,  using  an  old  English  source  which  we 
cannot  now  find.  She  called  her  collection  Ysopet,  or 
''Little  ^sop."  Finally  in .1447,  Planudes,  a  monk  of 
Constantinople,  put  forth  in  prose  a  collection  of  about 
three  hundred  stories,  which  bears  the  name  of 
''^s<^.'' 

The  Bast  never  stopped  to  cavil  about  the  source  of 
fables.  It  has  always  loved  the  type.  The  Hindoos 
HitoDades*  ^^^^  ^^^  ^^^  ancient  Sanscrit  collections 
aad  Pan-  of  fable-like  discourses — the  *'Panchatan- 
cjiatantra  ^g^>>  (Five  Books),  written  in  prose,  and 
the  ''Hitopadesa"   (Friendly    Instruction),  in  verse. 


THE  SYMBOLIC-DIDACTIC  GKOUP  85 

These  differ  from  ordinary  sets  of  fables  in  having  the 
principle  of  connection  throughout  and  in  being,  in- 
stead of  mere  brief  tales,  rather  romantic  and  dramatic 
dialogues  and  expositions  designed  as  text-books  for 
the  instruction  of  princes  and  those  called  to  govern, 
Many  selections,  however,  have  been  taken  out,  trans- 
lated, modified,  and  used  either  as  whole  stories  or  as 
elements  of  larger  ones. 

The  very  widely  read  and  extensively  translated 
eleventh  century  '* Reynard  the  Fox"  is  a  beast-epic, 
and  not  a  fable  in  the  technical  sense  of  t^^jEteynard 
term«  As  likewise  the  bestiaries  are  not  tin  Fox  and 
fables.  Those  quaint  medieval  collections  of  ^**^*^*®* 
false  lore,  modeled  probably  on  some  earlier  Oreek 
or  Latin  physiologus,  were  meant  as  doctrinal  ex- 
pository allegories  rather  than  zoological  treatises  or 
than  narratives  which  would  fall  within  our  present 
classification.  Yet  they  are  allied  to  this  group  in  that 
they  are  symbolic  and  didactic  and  permit  unnatural 
natural  history. 

There  have  always  been  men  who  wrote  of  their 
own  times  original  satires  in  the  form  of  fables,  expos^ 
ing  vice  and  folly.  Phadrus,  a  f reedman  of  ^^^^  m^yg 
Augustus,  wrote  five  such  books  in  the  reign  writers  of 
of  Tiberius.  Dante,  Petrarch,  Boccaccio,  and  ^*^^®* 
Poggio  knew  and  used  the  type.  The  greatest  name  in 
modem  literature  in  connection  with  the  fable  is  that 
of  the  Frenchman  Jean  de  la  Fontaine,  who  lived  at 
the  court  of  Louis  Fourteenth.  He  expressed  in  ex- 
quisite verse-narratite  very  high  social  maxims.  Many 
of  our  finest  well-known  fables  are  paraphrases  of  hiB 
lines.    His  own  favorite  was  the  *'Oak  and  the  Reed." 


86  TYPES  OP  PB08E  NAKBATIVES 

He  is  supposed  to  have  drawn  his  inspiratioi^  from 
Phsedrus.  Our  own  English  writers,  Gay  and  Pope, 
Addison  and  Prior,  Steele  and  Dodsley,  Moore,  Gold- 
smith, Cowper,  and  others,  wrote  fables  both  in  prose 
and  verse.  Indeed,  worthy  old  Henryson,  of  *' Robin 
and  Makyne"  fame,  wrote  in  the  fifteenth  century  a 
book  of  -'Morall  Fables  of  Esope  the  Phrygian!"  in 
Chaucerian  stanzas.  One  of  these  poems  he  calls  the 
**Uplondish  Mous  and  the  Berger  Mous."  Kriloflf,  the 
Russian  fabulist,  who  died  in  the  middle  of  the  nine- 
teentH  century,  disputes  the  highest  place  with  La 
Fontaine  in  the  minds  of  many  critics,  especially  for 
his  originality.  A  twentieth  century  humorous  set  of 
rational  apologues  is  George  Ade's  ** Fables  in  Slang." 
The  popular  ** Uncle  Remus"  stories  are  negro 
animal-myths  rather  than  fables.  Though  Kipling's 
first  *' Jungle  Book"  narratives  are  in  effect  sui  generis, 
they  belong  with  fable  typically  if  anywhere,  as  the 
unnatural  very  natural  beast  philosophy  evinces. 
''His  Majesty's  Servant,"  the  last  of  the  volume,  is 
easily  classified.  Some  of  the  later  tales  are  animal- 
myths,  however — ^to  wit,  *'How  Fear  Came"  and 
''How  the  Camel  Got  His  Hump;"  and  some,  like  "The 
Miracle  of  Purun  Bhagat,"  are  legends;  but  the  talk 
and  actions  of  the  animals  in  all  are  fable-wise.  The 
French,  it  seems,  have  lately  pushed  the  type  the 
farthest,  though  in  a  logical  direction.  They  have  re- 
tained the  animal  talk  and  the  satire,  but  have  cast 
away  the  narrative.  Under  the  patronage  of  Rostand, 
Sir  Chanticler  has  come  before  the  footlights.  This  play 
happens  to  be  an  anomalous  union  of  the  two  old  dis- 
tinct meanings  of  the  word  "fable" — one,  the  under- 


THE  SYMBOLIC-DIDACTIC  GROUP  g? 

lying  story  of  a  drama;  the  other,  a  symbolic,  tiflually 
satiric,  didactic  tale. 

In  the  narrative  sense  of  the  term,  a  fable  is  a  very 
brief  invented,  double-meaning  story  in  which  a  lesson 
of  every  day  practical  morality  is  taught.  Working 
The  kind  of  lesson  is  one  of  the  points  that  4elliiitloB 
distinguish  fable  from  parable  and  allegory.  The 
fable  never  aims  higher  than  inculcating  maxims  of 
prudential  conduct — ^industry,  caution,  foresight,  and 
the  like — and  these  it  will  sometimes  recommend  at  the 
expense  of  the  higher,  self -forgetting  virtues.  A  t3rpical 
fable  reaches  ju^t  the  pitch  of  morality  which  the 
world  will  approve.  In  spirit  the  fable  is  often  humor- 
ous, often  ironical.  In  diction  it  is  always  simple, 
forceful,  and  appropriate. 

Three  classes  of  fables  have  been  noticed:  (1)  the 
rational — in  which  the  actors  and  speakers  are  solely 
human  beings  or  the  gods  of  mythology,  (2)  the  non- 
rational — ^in  which  the  heroes  are  solely  animals,  trees, 
vegetables,  or  inanimate  objects,  (3)  the  mixed — ^in 
which  the  rational  and  non-rational  are  combined. 

Now  what  distinguishes  all  these  from  myth  and 
legend  is  the  presence  of  the  evident  and  acknowl- 
edged didactic  purpose.  What  distinguishes  classes  of 
the  first  class,  the  rational  fable,  from  a  ta^hies 
parable  is  the  low  plane  of  the  motive.  Above  the 
utilitarian  the  fable  never  rises.  If  the  fable  teaches 
honesty,  it  teaches  it  merely  as  the  best  policy.  What 
distinguishes  the  non-rational  and  the  mixed  fables 
from  allegory  is  both  the  limitation  of  the  moral  and 
the  kind  of  hero.  The  lesson  of  the  fable  is  always 
piquant,  single,  and  clear.    The  actors 'in  a  fable  are 


gg  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

always  things  concrete  in  nature  as  well  as  in  the 
story. 

The  most  popular,  and  hence  the  most  typical  of 
the  three  classes  of  fables,  is  the  second,  often  called 
also  the  ** beast  fable."  The  beast  fable  departs  some- 
what from  the  laws  of  nature.  In  the  dialogue,  animals 
and  inanimate  objects  act  like  human  beings.  A  fox 
and  a  bear,  for  instance,  will  philosophize  on  politics. 
A  lion  and  a  mouse  will  exchange  courtesies.  But  it 
is  a  remarkable  feature  of  this  type  of  story  that  we 
do  not  resent  the  incongruity.  And  that  we  do  not 
resent  it  is  because  there  is  a  truthfulness  that  is  more 
interesting  to  us  than  is  the  natural  order  of  the  uni- 
verse— namely,  the  truthfulness  of  characterization. 
Here  the  verisimilitude  must  be  complete.  Although 
acting  the  part  of  rational  beings,  the  animals  must  be 
true  to  our  accepted  notion  of  their  animal  nature — ^a 
fox  must  be  foxy ;  a  bear,  bearish ;  a  lion,  haughty ;  a 
mouse,  timid ;  a  cat,  deceptive ;  a  monkey,  mischievous ; 
a  canary,  dependent ;  an  eagle,  lofty ;  and  so  oni,  and  so 
on.  It  is  not  necessary  that  they  have  no  other  char- 
acteristics, but  it  is  necessary  that  they  possess  the 
commonly  ascribed  ones. 

To  write  what  is  strictly  a  fable,  a  person  will  need 
to  observe  the  distinctions  of  the  type  in  general  as 

cut  off  from  parable  on  the  one  hand  and 
write  an  allegory  on  the  other,  and  to  observe  the  dis- 
original        tinctions  of  the  subdivisions  within  the  type. 

Then  he  must  decide,  of  course,  which  sub- 
division he  is  going  to  follow,  must  select  his  moral, 
pick  out  his  actors,  think  over  their  characteristics, 
and  finally  narrate  a  brief  occurrence  in  a  vivid,  honae- 


THE  SYMBOLIC-MDACTIC  GBOUP  g^ 

ly  style.  The  dialogue,  while  correct;  should  be  very 
colloquial.  It  is  well  for  one  to  pay  especial  attention 
to  author's  narrative,  likewise,  that  it  may  be  inform- 
ing though  limited.  After  all  is  told,  the  writer  may 
or  may  not  affix  a  maxim  at  the  end,  definitely  and 
neatly  stated.  In  either  case,  however,  the  lewon 
taught  should  be  unmistakable.  Original  and  spirited 
fables  could  be  written  in  the  field  of  civie  xKLorais, 
about  which  the  world  has  just  begun  to  think  seri- 
ously. Despite  the  good  work  that  is  being  done  in 
the  name  of  charity,  there  is  room  surely  for  pleasant 
satire  when  a  Happy  Childhood  Society  gives  elab- 
orately  dressed  dolls  to  naked  babies. 

If  one  chooses  to  write  a  rational  fable,  where  the 
actors  are  human  beings,  one  must  be  careful  not  to 
write  a  parable.  The  lesson  of  a  fable  is  always 
unsentimentally  practical — not  spiritual.  Where  the 
actors  are  gods,  or  gods  and  men,  the  studjont-writer 
must  distinguish  fable  from  myth.  He  should  not  aim 
at  explaining  a  universal  phenomenon,  but  simply  at 
teaching  a  single,  acute,  work-a^day  lesson. 

Armenian  proverbt  that  might  be  used  for  fable  maxima 

1.  When  a  man* sees  that  the  water  does  not  fol- 
low him,  he  follows  the  water. 

2.  Strong  vinegar  bursts  the  cask. 

3.  Dogs  quarrel  among  themselves,  but  again3t 
the  wolf  they  are  united* 

4.  Only  a  bearded  man  can  laugh  at  a  beardlesp 
face. 

5.  Make  friends  with  a  dog,  but  keep  a  stick  isx 
your  hand. 


90  TYPES  OF  PKQSE  NABBATIVBS 

6.  One  should  not  feel  hurt  at  the  kick  of  an  ass. 

7.  Running  is  also  an  art. 

8.  He  who  speaks  the  truth  must  have  one  foot 
in  the  stirrup. 

9.  Before  Susan  had  done  prineking,  church  was 
over. 

10.  When  you  are  going  in,  first  consider  bow  you 
are  coming  out. 

11.  The  ass  knows  seven  ways  of  swimming,  but 
when  he  sees  the  water  he  forgets  them  all. 

12.  A  shrewd  enemy  is  better  than  a  stupid  friend. 

13.  Because  the  cat  could  get  no  meat  he   said, 
** Today  is  Friday." 

14.  A  goat  prefers  one  goat  to  a  whole  herd  of 
sheep. 

15.  A  near  neighbor  is  better  than  a  distant  kins- 
man. 

16.  When  I  have  honey,  the  flies  come  even  from 
Bagdad. 

BATIONAL,  WITH  TEE  ACTOBS  G0D8  AND  MEK 

Jupiter  and  the  Countryman 

Jupiter,  to  reward  the  piety  of  a  certain  countryman, 
promised  to  give  him  whatever  he  would  ask.  The  coun- 
tryman desired  that  he  might  have  the  management  of 
the  weather  in  his  own  estate.  He  obtained  his  request, 
and  immediately  distributed  rain,  snow,  and  sunshine 
among  his  several  fields  as  he  thought  the  nature  of  the 
soil  required.  At  the  end  of  the  year  when  he  expected 
to  see  a  more  than  ordinary  crop,  his  harvest  fell  in- 
finitely short  of  that  of  his  neighbors.     Thereupon  he 


THE  SYMBOLIC-DIDACTIC  GBOUP  91 

desired  Jupiter  to  take  the  weather  again  into  his  own 
hands,  for  the  countryman  knew  that  otherwise  he  should 
utterly  ruin  himself. 

— Spectator  No.  25. 

NON'BATIONAL— INANIMATE  OBJECT 
The  Drop  of  Water 

A  drop  of  water  fell  out  of  a  cloud  into  the  sea,  and 
finding  itself  lost  amid  such  a  countless  number  of  its 
companions,  broke  out  in  complaint  of  its  lot.  *'Alas! 
what  an  insignificant  creature  am  I  in  this  vast  ocean 
of,  waters !  My  existence  is  of  no  concern  to  the  uni- 
verse ;  I  am  reduced  to  a  kind  of  nothing,  and  I  am  less 
than  the  least  works  of.. God."  It  so  happened  that  an 
oyster,  which  lay  in  ^le  neighborhood  of  this  drop, 
chanced  to  gape  and  swallow  it  up  in  the  midst  of  its 
humble  soliloquy.  The  drop  lay  a  great  while  harden- 
ing in  the  shell  till  by  degrees  it  was  ripened  into  a 
pearl.  The  pearl  fell  into  the  hands  of  a  diver,  after  a 
long  series  of  adventures,  and  is  at  present  the  famous 
ornament  fixed  on  the  top  of  the  Persian  diadem. 

— Persian  fable.    Adapted  in  the  Spectator  No.  293. 

POLITICAL  SATIBE 
Tbe  Grandee  at  the  Judgment-Seat 

Once  in  the  days  of  old  a  certain  Grandee  passed 
from  his  riehly  dight  bed  into  the  realm  which  Pluto 
sways*  To  speak  more  simply,  he  died.  And  so,  as  was 
anciently  the  custom,  he  appeared  before  the  justice  seat 
of  Hades.  .Straightway  he  was  asked,  ''Where  were  you 
bomf    What  have  you  bee^;ir' 


92  TYPES  or  PK08E  NARRATIVES 

'*I  was  born  in  Persia,  and  my  rank  was  that  of  a 
Satrap.  But,  as  my  health  was  feeble  during  my  life- 
time, I  never  exercised  any  personal  control  in  my  prov- 
ince, but  left  everything  to  be  done  by  my  secretary." 

' '  But  you— what  did  you  do  ? "  ' 

*'I  ate,  drank,  and  slept;  and  I  signed  everything 
he  set  before  me." 

**In  with  him  then  at  once  to  Paradise." 

*'How  now^  where  is  the  justice  of  this?"  thereupon 
exclaimed  Mercury,  forgetting  all  politeness. 

**Ah,  brother,"  answered  Eacu3,  *'you  know  noth- 
ing about  it.  But  don't  you  see  this?  The  dead  man 
was  a  fool.  What  would  have  happened  if  he,  who  had 
such  power  in  his  hands,  had  unfortunately  interfered 
in  business  ?  Why,  he  would  have  ruined  the  whole 
province.  The  teafs  which  would  have  flowed  then 
would  have  been  beyond  all  calculation.  Therefore,  it  is 
that  he  has  gone  into  Paradise,  because  he  did  not  in- 
terfere with  business/' 

I  was  in  court  yesterday,  and  I  saw  a  judge  there. 
There  can  be  no  doubt  that  he  will  go  injto  Paradise. 

— Kriloff. 

BEAST  FABLES 
The  Lion  and  the  Oid  Hare 

On  the  Mandara  mountain  there  lived  a  Lion  named 
Fierce-of-Heart,  and  he  was  perpetually  making  massa- 
cre of  all  the  wild  animals.  The  thing  grew  so  bad  that 
the  beasts  held  a  public  meeting,  and  drew  up  a  re- 
spectful remonstrance  to  the  Lion  in  these  words: 

''Wherefore  should  your  Majesty  thus  tnake  carnage 


THE  SYMBOLIC'DIDACTIC  GBOUP  93 

of  US  all  t  If  it  may  pleaae  you,  we  ourselves  will  daily 
furnish  a  beast  for  your  Majesty's  meal."  Thereupon 
the  Lion  responded,  ''If  that  arrangement  is  more  agree- 
able to  you,  be  it  so;"  and  from  that  time  a  beast  was 
allotted  to  him  daily,  and  daily  devoured.  One  day 
it  came  to  the  turn  of  an  old  h&re  to  supply  the  royal 
table,  who  reflected  to  himself  as  he  walked  along,  '*I 
can  but  die,  and  will  go  to  my  death  leisurely." 

Now  Fierce-of-Heart,  the  lion,  was  pinched  with  hun- 
ger, and  seeing  the  Hare  so  approaching,  he  roared  out, 
**How  darest  thou  thus  delay  in  coming?" 

''Sire,"  replied  the  Hare,  "I  am  not  to  blame.  I 
was  detained  on  the  road  by  another  lion,  who  exacted 
an  oath  from  me  to  return  when  1  should  have  in- 
formed your  Majesty." 

"Go,"  exclaimed  King  Pierce-of-Heart  in  a  rage; 
"show  me  instantly  where  this  insolent  villain  of  a  lion 
Uves." 

The  Hare  led  the  way  accordingly  until  he  came 
to  a  deep  well,  whereat  he  stopped,  and  said,  "Let  my 
lord  the  King  come  hither  and  behold  him."  The  Lion 
approached,  and  beheld  his  own  reflection  in  the  water 
of  the  well,  upon  which,  in  his  passion,  he  directly  flung 
himself,  and  so  perished. 

-^Hitopadesa.   Translated  by  Sir  Edwin  Arnold. 

The  Fox  and  the  Crab 

The  Pox  and  the  Grab  lived  together  like  brothers; 
together  they  sowed  iheir  land,  reaped  the  harvest, 
thrashed  the  grain  and  garnered  it. 

The  Fox  said  one  day :  "Let  us  go  to  the  hill-top,  and 


94  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NABRATIVES 

whoever  reaches  it  first  shall  carry  oflE  the  grain  for  his 
own." 

While  they  were  (starting)  to  mount  the  steep,  the 
Crab  said: 

''Do  me  a  favor;  before  we  set  ofiE  running,  touch  me 
with  your  tail,  so  that  I  shall  know  it  and  be  able  to 
follow  you.'' 

The  Crab  opened  his  claws,  and  when  the  Pox  touched 
him  with  his  tail,  he  leaped  forward  and  seized  it,  so  that 
when  the  Fox  reached  the  goal  and  turned  around  to 
see  where  the  Crab  was,  the  Crab  fell  upon  the  heap  of 
grain  and  said:  ''These  three  bushels  and  a  half  are  all 
mine.''    The  Fox  was  thunderstruck  and  exclaimed: 

"How  did  you  get  here,  you  rascal?" 

This  fable  shows  that  deceitful  men  devise  many 
methods  and  actions  for  getting  things  their  own  way, 
but  that  they  are  often  defeated  by  the  feeble. 
— Turkish  Fable.    Translated  by  Epiphanius  Wilson. 

BATIONAL,  WITH  TEE  ACTORS  MEN 
The  Fool  Wlio  Sells  Wisdom 

A  certain  fool  kept  constantly  passing  through  the 
streets  of  a  town. 

"Who  will  buy  wisdom?"  he  cried  in  a  loud  voice. 
A  citizen  met  him  on  his  way,  accosted  him,  and  pre- 
sented him  with  some  small  pieces  of  money. 

"Sell  me  a  little  wisdom,"  he  said. 

"Here  it  is,"  replied  the  other,  cuffing  him  heartily, 
and  immediately  putting  into  his  hands  a  long  thread. 

"If  you  wish  in  the  future  to  be  wise  and  prudent," 
said  the  hawker  to  him,  "always  keep  as  far  away  from 
fools  as  the  length  of  this  thread." 


THE  SYMBOLIC-DIDACTIC  GROUP  95 

Moral:  We  should  avoid  all  connection  and  com- 
munication with  fools  and  cranks. 

—Ibid. 

ALMOST  A  PABABLE 
The  Archer  und  the  Trompeter 

The  Archer  and  the  Trumpeter  were  travelling  to- 
gether in  a  lonely  place.  The  Archer  boasted  of  his 
skill  as  a  warrior,  and  asked  the  Trumpeter  if  he  bore 
arms. 

'*No/*  replied  the  Trumpeter,  **I  cannot  fight.  I  can 
only  blow  my  horn,  and  make  music  for  those  who  are  at 
war.'* 

**But  I  can  hit  a  mark  at  a  hundred  paces/'  said 
the  Archer.  As  he  spoke,  an  eagle  appeared,  hovering 
over  the  tree  tops.  He  drew  out  an  arrow,  fitted  it  on 
the  string,  shot  at  the  bird,  which  straightway  fell  to 
the  ground,  transfixed  to  the  heart. 

**I  am  not  afraid  of  any  foe;  for  that  bird  might 
just  as  well  have  been  a  man,''  said  the  Archer  proudly. 
**But  you  would  be  quite  helpless  if  anyone  attacked 
you." 

They  saw  at  the  moment  a  band  of  robbers,  approach- 
ing them  with  drawn  swords.  The  Archer  immediately 
discharged  a  sharp  arrow  which  laid  low  the  foremost 
of  the  wicked  men.  But  the  rest  soon  overpowered  him 
and  bound  his  hands. 

**As  for  this  trumpeter,  he  can  do  us  no  harm,  for 
he  has  neither  sword  nor  bow,"  they  said,  and  did  not 
bind  him,  but  took  away  his  purse  and  wallet. 

Then  the  Trumpeter  said:  **You  are  welcome, 
friends,  but  let  me  play  you  a  tune  on  my  horn." 


98  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

The  Hat  and  the  Shoes 

Once  a  man  owned  two  faithful  servants,  a  hat  and 
a  pair  of  shoes.  The  shoes  had  always  been  jealous  of 
the  hat :  in  the  first  place,  because  the  master  carried 
the  hat  instead  of  the  hat's  carrying  him;  secondly,  be- 
cause the  hat  was  given  a  great  deal  of  care  and  had  a 
regular  place  where  it  was  put ;  while  the  shoes,  who  car- 
ried both  the  master  and  the  hat,  were  just  thrown  any- 
where after  their  service. 

Of  course  the  shoes  did  not  feel  satisfied  with  such 
partial  treatment,  and  had  long  wished  to  have  a  short 
talk  with  the  hat  to  discuss  this  matter  of  importance; 
but  they  had  always  been  put  far  apart. 

One  day,  while  their  master  was  asleep  apd  while 
they  were  having  a  rest,  a  child  got  hold  of  the  hat  and 
the  shoes  as  playthings.  The  shoes  wete  then  glad  of 
this;  for  they  could  have  a  hearty  chat.  Soon  after- 
wards, the  child  grew  tired  of  playing  and  feel  asleep. 
They  then  discussed  their  respective  positions. 

**Why  is  it,  my  friend,"  asked  the  shoes,  who  be- 
gan the  discussion,  **that  you  are  always  carried  by  our 
master  and  taken  good  care  of?" 

''Don't  be  envious  of  my  position,  my  friend  shoes. 
Our  master  takes  such  good  care  of  me  because  I  protect 
the  most  important  part  of  his  body,  while  you,  you  just 
serve  his  feet,"  replied  the  hat. 

'*You  are  mistaken.  Yes,  you  are  entirely  mistaken. 
I  serve  not  only  his  feet,  but  his  legs,  body,  and  hands, 
and  head  too,  and  what  is  more,  I,  a  servant,  also 
serve  you  who  are  like  myself,"  argued  the  shoes.  The 
hat  was  ashamed  because  of  what  the  shoes  had  ex- 
pounded and  was  unable  to  continue  the  discussion. 


THE  SYMBOLIC-DIDACTIC  GROUP  99 

Moral:  When  you  occupy  a  position  of  dignity, 
don't  think  that  those  below  you  are  your  servants  and 
their  work  is  of  little  value ;  for  generally  those  men  are 
the  ones  who  support  you,  and  their  services  may  be  of 
more  importance  than  yours.  — Jose  R.  Perez. 

The  Orocodile  and  the  Peahen 

Once  there  lived  a  young  crocodile  on  the  bank  of  the 
Pasig  River.  He  was  so  fierce  and  so  greedy  that  no 
animals  dared  to  approach  him.  One  day  while  he  was 
resting  on  a  rock,  he  thought  of  getting  married.  He 
said  aloud,  **I  will  give  all  that  I  have  for  a  wife."  As 
he  pronounced  these  words,  a  coquettish  peahen  passed 
near  him.  The  naughty  crocodile  expressed  his  wish 
again.  The  coquette  listened  carefully,  and  begaji  to 
examine  the  crocodile's  looks. 

She  said  to  herself,  **I  will  marry  this  crocodile.  He 
is  very  rich.  Oh,  my!  If  I  could  only  have  all  those 
pearls  and  diamonds,  I  should  be  the  happiest  wife  in' 
the  world."  She  made  up  her  mind  to  marry  the  croco- 
dile. She  then  alighted  on  the  rock  where  the  crocodile 
was,  who  made  his  offer  again  with  extreme  politeness, 
as  a  hypocrite  always  does.  She  thought  that  the  big 
eyes  of  the  crocodile  were  two  beautiful  diamonds  and 
that  the  rough  skin  was  made  of  pearls,  so  she  accepted 
the  proposal.  The  crocodile  asked  the  peahen  to  sit  on 
his  mouth,  that  she  might  not  spoil  her  beautiful  feath- 
ers with  mud.  The  foolish  bird  did  as  she  was  told. 
What  do  you  think  happened  ?  He  made  a  good  dinner 
of  his  new  wife. 

Moral.  :    Be  attracted  by  quality  rather  than  wealth. 

— Elisa  R.  Esquerra. 


100  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NAKBATIVES 

The   Old  Man,   His   Son,   and  His   Ghfandson 

In  olden  times^  when  men  lived  to  be  two  or  three 
hundred  years  old,  there  dwelt  a  very  poor  family  near  a 
big  forest.  The  household  had  but  three  members — a 
grandfather,  a  father,  and  a  son.  The  grandfather  was 
an  old  man  of  one  hundred  and  twenty-flve  years.  He 
was  so  old  that  the  help  of  his  housemates  was  needed 
to  feed  him.  Many  a  time,  and  especially  after  meals, 
he  related  to  his  son  and  to  his  grandson  his  brave 
deeds  while  serving  in  the  king's  army,  the  responsible 
positions  he  filled  after  leaving  a  soldier's  life;  and  he 
told  entertaining  stories  of  hundreds  of  years  gone  by. 
The  father  was  not  satisfied  with  the  arrangement,  how- 
ever, and  planned  to  get  rid  of  the  old  man. 

One  day  he  said  to  his  son,  **At  present,  I  am  re- 
ceiving a  peso  daily,  but  half  of  it  is  spent  to  feed  your 
worthless  grandfather.  We  do  not  get  any  real  benefit 
from  him.  To-morrow  let  us  bind  him  and  take  him  to 
the  woods,  and  leave  him  there  to  die." 

''Yes,  father,''  said  the  boy. 

When  the  morning  came,  they  bound  the  old  man  and 
took  him  to  the  forest.  On  their  way  home  the  boy  said 
to  his  father,  **Wait,  I  will  go  back,  and  get  the  rope." 
''What  for?"  asked  his  father,  raising  his  voice.  "To 
have  it  ready  when  your  turn  comes,"  replied  the  boy, 
believing  that  to  cast  every  old  man  into  the  forest 
was  the  usual  custom.  "Ah!  if  that  is  likely  to  be  the 
case  with  me,  back  we  go,  and  get  your  graiiidfather 
again." 

— ^Eutiquiano  Garcia. 


THE  SYMBOLIC-DIDACTIC  GKOUP  101 

n.    Parable 

The  pft!*able,  like  the  fable,  is  a  short  didactic  story ; 
bnt  the  lesson  of  the  parable  is  always  spiritual,  though 
not  iiedessarily  religious.  The  *a^l®  .^^ver  p^^^^^^ 
rises  above  the  eojmnon-place :  it  preaches  contrasted 
a  worldly  morality.  Self --interest  and  pru-  ^^  ^*^^ 
denee  are  its  tionets;  it  often  satirizes;  it  laughs  at 
mankind.  The  parable,  on  the  contrary,  is  always 
serious :  it  is  earnest  Ad  high  in  its  purpose.  It  tries 
to  will' mankind  to  generosity  and  self-forgetting,  or 
tries  to  shatiie  him  for  his  neglect  by  presenting  good 
deeds  iii  contrast  with  his,  or  tries  to  drive  him  forth 
to  aii  aWfe-fttmek  repentance  by  a  representation  of 
righteous  anger. 

The  actors  in  a  parable  never  violate  the  laws  of 
nature.  If  anlmiftls  appear,  for  instance,  they  do  not 
talk.  They  follow  as  the  friends  or  subjects  of  man, 
as  in*iaetual  life.  Man's  dominion  over  them  is  spirit- 
ual ;  hehce  they  m.ay  have  a  place  lii  the  parable  along 
with  him  but  not  without  him. 

Whetef  the  parable  departs  from  the  true  story  is  in 

the  fatet  that  the  men  in  the 'parable  are  types,  and  the 

deeds  are  isytnbolic.    "We  have  not  Mr.  John  Character- 

W.   RiehigLrdS,   a  particular  fariner  arid  an  istlcsof 

varaDids 
iiidi^idtial,  plotring  a  field  of  corn  in  Mason 

Coiinty,  Illinois^  on  July  8;  but  instead  we  have  such 

stateirieritfif  arethese:    **The  Farmer  went  out  to  plow 

his  Soird,'^'  */ The  Sower  went  out  to  i^ow  the  seeds/* 

'*A  Householder  hired  laborers  for  his  vineyard;''  or 

**Once  a  King  had  two  servants,''  or  **The  Prodigal 

sat  among  the  swine  in  a  far  country."    If  the  n^me 


102  TYPES  or  PB08E  NABBATIYES 

of  an  actor  is  ever  individual — ^Bke  that  of  Abraham, 
for  instance,  in  Franklin's  prose  parable,  or  Abou  Ben 
A<fii^n  in  Leigh  Hunt's  poem — the  actor  himself  is 
nevertheless  representative.  Abraham  stands  for  the 
whole  Jewish  people  in  its  exclusiveness ;  and  Abou 
Ben  Adhem,  for  all  doubters  who  yet  love  their  fel- 
low-men. A  character's  seeing  of  angels  or  hearing 
of  the  voice  of  the  Deity  does  not  break  the  versimili- 
tude  of  parables;  for  these  matters  are  readily  taken 
subjectively.  ♦ 

The  spiritual  truth  of  a  parable  is  generally  inde- 
pendent and  separable  from  the  story,  whieh  can  al- 
ways be  read  as  narrative  of  actual  events,  though  it  is 
meant  to  be  symbolic.  The  interpretation  eomes  from 
without.  It  is  either  left  to  be  inferred  by  the  reader 
or  is  written  before  or  after  the  narrative  in  the  form 
of  a  summarizing  figure  of  speech  or  a  detailed  col- 
lated exposition.  You  remember  that  Christ  took  his 
disciples  aside  and  explained  his  parables  to  them« 

Count  Tolstoy  has  written  many  parables.      He 

combines  his  teaching  with  virile  realism  until  he  is 

as  enthusiastically  read  as  are  the  popular 

^  and  less  spiritual  authors.  ''What  Men  Live 
By"  is  an  exquisite  example  of  his  teachimg,  and,  while 
it  embodies  a  church  legend,  is  a  regular  parable  in 
form.  It  has  the  requisite  generic  atmosphere  about 
it :  the  shoemaker  and  his  wife,  the  rich  purchaser,  the 
kind  foster-mother,  and  the  children  are  all  types. 
The  intense  realism  comes  in.  in  tiie  repTesentgtion  of 
Russian  life.  The  les8(m  is  given  in  an  oTderly  expo- 
sition after  the  narrative  of  events  is  finished,. 

In  writing  an  original  parable,  one  should  avoid 


THE  SYMBOLIC-DIDACTIC  GROUP  103 

the  diotioa  o£  the  Bible^  that  is,  flihoixld  avoid  phrase- 
ology- archaic  or  espedally  reSgious;  but  it  would  be 
well  to  imitate  the  simplicity  and  straightfor-  gugg^gtio^g 
wardness  of  the  Biblical  narrative.  A  inodeniDnwrlti]^ 
pacable  writeor  to  be  suocessful  would  avoid  **'*^*^ 
mawkishness,  and  what  is  popularly  designated  as 
**preaehiiijg/' — ^but  he  would -shadow  forth  neverthe- 
less very  'Clearly  a  •  high^  spiritual  truth.  He  would 
Idtudy  living  examples  carefully  so  as  to  express  inev- 
itable actions  in  a  few  luminous  words.  Th«re  are 
many  noble  lessont.  to  be  taught  by  the  actionib  of 
typieal  men.  in  tj^pical  situations. 

The  adjeotilves  symbolic,  serious,  spiritual,  typical, 
and  natural  might  be  embodied  in  a  working  definition 
thus:  A  p^raible  is>a  i^arratire  of  imaginary  events,  a 
symbolic  didactic  story,  wherein  the  actors  are  alwalys 
types  of  xaeli  ot  types  of  i»eii  and  aniihals  woiking 
(never  exclusively  of  animals),  aindi  whereof  definition 
the  ksson  is  always  spiritual,  single,  amd  separate,  and 
the  tone  is  always  serious,  and  the  events  always 
appear  natural  and  customary. 

A  list  of  proverbs  that  mig Kt  be  expanded  into  parables 

1.  Ood  underflBfcaitdstjbhe^^diimb; 

2.  \fhfit  a  man  tfcqiuires  in  his  youth  serves. as  a. 
crutch  in  hia  old  age. 

.  3.  .9egin:  ^itl>  smaU  things  tl^a-t  ypu  may  acbjieve 

4.  .  H^  w^ho  steals  an  egg  will  steal  3.  hprsie.  also,. 

5.  One  can  spoil  the  good  nam^  !pf  a  thousand. 

6.  On^  bad  deed. begets.  jai;iother. 


104  TYPES  OF  PKOSENAKBATIVEg; 

7..;  Tiiie.  gi^amd&their  ate  unripe  grapes  anil  the 
giahdflon^S' teeth  were  set  on  edge* 

8,  TV^hat'  is  play  to  the  bat  ia  death  to  i^ic  mouse 
(modern,  palitioal  parable) »     .   :  • 

9.  I^hen  a  man  gifowa  rich,  he  thjanks  his  walls 
are -awry.  ' ,  '     v 

10.  Better  lose  one's  ieyes  than  one's  calling. 

11.  "What  the: wind  brings. it. will' take -away. 

12.  No  one  is  suro  that  his  light  will  burn  till 
mormng. 

13.  The  sconrful  soon rguow  old.* 

14.  A  merry  heart  :doethgoi)<d  lihe  a  medicine. 

15.  Love  ever  ^  well,  there  is  also  hate  J  hate*  fever 
so  much,  there  is  ?also  love.    ^ 

16.  To  rise  early  is  not  every tbkig;  happy  /are  they 
who  have  the  help  of  God.  -^ 

17.  By  lashing,  ione  fiikds  the  way  to  Jemsalem. 

18.  When  God  gives,  he  gives  with  both  hands. 

19.  Until  yon  see  trouble' you  wiB  never  know 

joy.  .:;:,..■•        -       •    -    .     ■ 

20.  We  are  intelligence,  that  we  may  be  will. 

21.  Act  only  on  that  maxim  which  thou  couldst 
will  to  become  a  universal  law. 

The  Three:  Qii9itio to  i         ; 

It  once  occurred  to  a  certaiu  king,  that  if  he  aJways 
knew  the  right  time  to  begin  everything ;  if  he  knew  who 
were  the  right  j^edple  to  listen  to,  and  whom  to  avoid; 
and,  above  all,  if  he  always  knew  what  was  the  most 
important  thing;  to  do,  he  would  never' fail  in  anything? 
he  might  undertake. 

And  this  thought  having  occurred  to  him,  he  had  it 


THE  BYMBOLIC-DIDACTIC  OiROUP  105 

proclaimed  throughout  his  kingdom  that  be  wowld  give 
a  great  reward  to  ally  one  who  would. teaeh  him  what 
was  the  right  time  for  evtepy  antiOB^  and  who  were  the 
most  necessary  people;  and  how  he  might  know  what 
was  the  most  impofrtant  thing  t»  do. 

And'leamed  men  eame  to  this  King,  but  th^  All  an- 
swered his  questions  differently.  , ; 

In  reply  to  the  fii^t  question,  some  said  that  to  .]piow 
the  right  time  for  every  action,  one  must  djtaw  up  in 
advance,  a  table  of  diiys,  months  and  yeartt,  and  must 
live  strictly  according  to  it  Only  thua,  said  they,  eouM 
everything  be  done  at  its  proper  time.  Others  decl^jred 
that  it  Was  impossible  to  decide  beforehand  the.ifight 
time^  for  every  action;  bat  that^  not  letting  <meself  be 
absorbed  in  idle  pastimes,  one  should  always  Itttend  tQ 
all  that  wai^  going  on;  andthien  do  wfaktlwasixu^  need- 
ful. Others,  again,  said  that  boWever  attentive  the.  King 
might  be  to' what  was  going  bxt,  itiwas.impossSble  for  one 
man  to  decide  cow^ectly  what  is. the'  light  time  for 
every  action,  bat  that  he- should  have  a  Gomncll  of  wise 
men,  who  would  help  him  .to  fix  the  proper  time  for 
everything.     •■■':••: 

But  then  again  others  said  there  were  some  things 
which  could  hot  Wait  tobe  laid- before' a  CounciL  but 
about  which  one  had  at' enoe  .to  decide  whether,  to,- un^ 
dertake  them  or  not.  Bat  in  ordet  to  decide  that,  one 
must  know  beforehand  what. was  going  tp  happen.  It 
is  only  magicians  who  know  that;  and,  theref(>re,  in  or- 
der to  know 'the  right -time  for  every:  action,  one  rm$t 
consult  magicians. 

Equally  varibus  were  the  answers  to  the. second  ques- 
tion*   Sdme  eaid,  the  people  the  King  most; needed  wer^ 


100  T^yPEB  OF  PROSE  NABEATIVB8 

his  cotineillora  ;'othe]:«/^tliS!p]?iiB8ts;' others,  t^^  ^octoors; 
while  uome  gaid' the  wftrrions  were  the  moBt  oec^saary. 

To  the  third  question,  as  to  what  wto  ^hp  most  im- 
portant oecnpation:  some: replied  that  the  mipet  impor- 
tant thing  in  the  world)  was  Bciieaioei  Oth^^^aaid  it  was 
skill  in  warfare;  amd  others,  agaixi,  that  at>  was  religious 
worship. 

All  the  answers  being  diffieireiit;  the  King  a^eed  with 
Hone  of  l^em^  and  gave :i:he  xewacd  to  oico^e.  But.  still 
wishing  to,  find  the^rtght  aiMvwess  to  his  (jiteeftions,  be  de- 
cided to  oonstilt  a  hiermitj  widely:  renowned  for  bis  wis- 
dom. 

The  hermit ;  liTed  in  ai  wood  whiK^h  he  ■  never  quitted, 
and  he  itemed  none  but*  tjomiaon  folk.     So  tfce  King , 
put  on  simpfle  clothes,  wid  before  r«a<qhij|ig  the  hermit's 
oell  dismounted  frbm-  his  fadrse^  and,  laavii^g.  his  body- 
^ard  behind,  went  on  ahme^ : 

When  the  King  approached,  the  hermit  wah  .  digging 
the  ground  in  front,  of  his  hut..  Seeing  th^. King,  he 
greeted  : him  £^nd  went;  bn*  digging*  Tbe  thermit  was 
frail  and  weak,  and  each  timeifke  Istuck  hiB  spade 
into  the  ground  and  turned  a  little  earth,  he  breathed 
"heavily.    •  .'-•  :    ■•. *  .    ..  s  ,..„..     .  •..*  .?. 

•  The  King  went  tip  to  him  iind  siaid:  /'I  have  copaeto 
you,  wise  hetmit-,' 'to  ask  you.toanfewer  three  questions: 
How  ean  I  learn  i<>  do  the  bright  thing-  at  the  right  time? 
Who  -are  the  people  J  most  need,  and:  t^  whom  should  I, 
therefore,  pay  more  attention  thaiito  :tjhe  r^st?  And 
what  affairs  are  the  most  important,  "and  need  my  first 
attention?''  .      - 

The  hermit  listened  to  the  f King,  but  answered  noth- 
^ti^.   tie  just  spat  on  his  hand  and  re^onunenoad  digging. 


'THE  SYMBOLIC-DIDACTIC  GROUP  IDS' 

*'Y<m  are  tired/'  said  the  King,  **let  me  take  the 
spade  and  work  a  while  for  you." 

** Thanks,"  said  the  hermit,  and,  giving  the  spade  to 
the  King^  he  sat  down  on  the  ground. 

When  he  had  dug  two  beds,  the  King  stopped  and 
repeated  his  questions.  The  hermit  again  gave  no  an- 
swer, but  rose,  stretched  out  his  hand  for  the  spade,  and 
said : 

**Now  rest  awhile — and  let  me  work  a  bit.*' 

But  the  Kin^  did  not  give  him  the  spade,  and  con- 
tinued to  dig.  One  hour  passed,  and  another.  The  sun 
began  to  fiink  behind  the  trees,  and  the  King  at  last 
stack  the  spade  into  the  ground,  and  said : 

**I  come  to  you,  wise  man,  for  an  answer  to  my  ques- 
tions. If  you  can  give  me  none,  tell  me  so,  and  I  will 
return  home." 

**Heite  comes  some  one  running,"  said  the  hermit, 
**let  us  4ee  who  it  is." 

The  King  turned  around,  and  saw  a  bearded  man 
come  running  out  of  the  wood.  The  man  held  his  hands 
pressed  against  his  stomach,  and  blood  was  flowing  from 
under  them.  Wh^i  he  reached  the  King,  he  fell  faint- 
ing on  the  ground  moaning  feebly.  The  King  knd  the 
hermit  unfastened  the  man's  clothing.  There  was  a 
large  wound  in  his  stomach.  The  King  washed  it  as 
best  as  he  could,  and  bandaged  it  with  his  handkerchief 
and  with  a  towel  the  hermit  had.  But  the  blood  would 
not  stop  flowing,  and  the  King  again  and  again  removed 
the  bandage  soaked  with  warm  blood,  and  washed  and 
rebandaged  the  wound.  When  at  last  the  blood  ceased 
flowing,  the  man  revived  and  asked  for  soniething  to 
drink.  The  King  brought  fresh  water  and  gave  it  to  him. 


X08  TYPES  OP  PEOSE  NAKEATIVES 

Meanwhile  the  sun  had  set,  and  it  had  become  eool.  So 
the  King  with  the  hermit's  help,  carried  the  wounded 
man  into  the  hut  and  laid  him  on  the  bed.  Lying  on 
the  bed  the  man  closed  his  eyes  and  was  quiet;  but 
the  King  was  so  tired  with  his  walk  and  with  the  work 
he  had  done,  that  he  crouched  down  on  the  threshold, 
and  also  fell  asleep — so  soundly  that  be  sd^t  all  through 
the  short  summer  night.  When  he  awoke  in  the  morning, 
it  was  long  before  he  could  remember  where  he  was,  or 
who  was  the  strange  bearded  man  lying  on  the  bed  and 
gazing  intently  at  him  with  shining  eyea 

* '  Forgive  me ! "  said  the  bearded,  man  in  a  weak  voice, 
when  he  saw  that  the  King  was  awake,  and  was  looking 
at  him. 

'  *  I  do  not  know  you,  and  have  nothing  to  f  ongive  you 
for,'*  said  the  King. 

''You  do  not  know  me,  but  I  know  you.  I  am  that 
enemy  of  yours  who  swore  to  revenge  himself  on  you 
because  you  executed  his  brother  and  seized  his  property. 
I  knew  you  had  gone  alone  to  see  the  hermit,  and  I 
resolved  to  kill  you  on  your  way  back.  But  the  day 
papsed  and  you  did  not  return.  So  I  cam^  out  from 
my  ambush  to  find  you,  and  I  came  upon  your  body- 
guard, and  they  recognized  me,  and  wounded  me.  I 
escaped  from  them,  but  should  have  bled  to  death  had 
you  not  dressed  my  wound.  I  wished. to  kill  you,  and 
you  have  saved  my  life.  Now  if  I  live,  and  if  you  widi  it, 
I  will  serve  you  as  your  most  faithful  slave,  and  will  bid 
my  sons  do  the  same.    Forgive  me!" 

The  King  was  very  glad  to  have  made  peace  with  his 
enemy  so  easily,  and  to  have  gained  him  for  a  friend, 
and  he  not  only  forgave  him,  but  said  he  would  send  his 


THE  STMBOLIC.BIDACTIC  OBOUP  IQft 

servants  and  his  own  physician  to  attend  him,  and  prom- 
ised to  restore.his  property. 

Having  taken  leave  of  the  wounded  man,  the  King 
went  out  into  the  porch  and  looked  around  for  the  her- 
mit. Before  going  away  he  wished  once  more  to  beg 
answer  to'  the  question  he  had  put.  The  hermit  wa»  out- 
side, on  his  knees,  sowing  seeds  in  the  beds  that  had  been 
dug' the  day  before. 

The  King  approached  him,  and  said: 

**For  the  la«t  time,  I  pray  you  to  answer  my  ques- 
tions, wise  man.'* 

'*You  have  already  been  answered,"  said  the  hermit 
still  crouching  oh  his  thin  legs,  and  looking  at  the  King, 
who  stood  before  him. 

"How  answered?  What  do  you  mean!"  asked  the 
King. 

**Do  you  not  see,"  replied  the  hermit.  "If  you  had 
not  pitied  my  weakness  yesterday,  and  had  not  dug 
these  beds  foi*  me,  but  had  gone  yoiir  way,  that  man 
would  have  attacked  you,  and  you  would  have  repented 
of  not  having  stayed  with  me.  So  the  most  important 
time  was  when  you  were  digging  the  beds ;  and  I  was  the 
most  important  man,  and  to  do  me  good  was  your  most 
important  business.  Afterwards,  when  that  man  ran  to 
us,  the  most'ifnportant  time  was  when  you  were  attend- 
ing to  him,  for  if  you  had  not  bound  up  his  wounds  he 
would  have  died  without  having  made  peace  with  you. 
So  hce'was  the  most  important  man,  and  what  you  did  for 
him  was  your  most  important  business.  Remember  then : 
there  is  6nly  one  time  that  is  important — ^Now !  It  is  the 
most  important  time  because  it  is  the  only  time  when  we 
have  aiiy  power.    iJ'he  most  necessary  man  is  he  with 


IIQ  (TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NAEBATIVES 

whom  you  are,  for  no  man  knows  whether  he  will  ever 
have  dealings  with  any  one  else :  and  the  most  important 
affair  is,  to  do  him  good,  because  for  that  purpose  alone 
was  man  sent  into  this  life ! " 

— ^Oount  Leo  M.  Tolstoy. 
**Twenty-ThTe€  Tales  from  Tolstoy,**  tranjglated  by  L.   and 
A.  Maude   (Oxford  Pres^). 

A  Master  axid,  H^  Senrfoil: 

Once  a  rich  man  was  riding  on  horseback  oyer  a 
desert.  He  was  going  to  the  palace  to  be  knighted  by 
the  king.  "With  him  was  his  trusty  servant,  who  was 
to  take  care  of  their  baggage  and  their,  food.  As  the 
master's  horse  was  stronger  than  the  servant's,  the  mas- 
ter went  very  far  ahead.  At  last  he  came  to  a  lonely 
tree  by  the  road.  He  intended  to  stop  in  the  shade,  but 
when  he  got  there,  he  fotmd  a  poor  trader  yalmost  dying 
of  hunger.  He  had  pity  on  him,,  so  he  threw  him  a  piece 
of  cake,  which  fell  on  his  breast.  Alas!  the  poor  man 
could  not  move  his  hands  to  pick  it  up.  The  master,  how- 
ever, would  not  dismount  and  help  the. wretched  man^ 
but  started  on,  leaving  him  about  to  die. 

Soon  the  servant  came. to  the  same  place.  His  heart 
was  greatly  moved  upon  seeing  the  traveler -s  pitiful 
appearance.  As  the  servant  was  about  to  drink  a  few 
drops  of  water  that  still  remained  in  a  bottle>  the  suf- 
fering man  looked  at  him,  Therefpre,  he  dismounted 
from  his  horse,  and  poured  the  water  into  the  man's 
mouth.  After  a  while  the  map  could  move  his  body  a 
little.  The  servant  thought  that  with  a  ci^p  of  pure  warm 
water  the  poor  traveler  would  recoveir  his  strength.  3ut 
no  water  could  be  found  in  the. desert.    So  he  killed  his 


THE  SYMBOI/IC-DIDACTie  GROUP  m 

horse,  took  fhe  blood  from  its  heart,  and  gave  it  to  the. 
traveler.  I'he  serrant  did  not  leave  the  traveler  uittil 
he  could  get  up  without  help.  At  last  the  servant  started 
on  his  joutney  with  the  baggage  (»t  his  head,  leaving  his 
dead  h6rse  and  the  traveler  in  the. middle  of  the  desert* 
He  left  to  the  traveler  some  bread,  clothes,  the  saddle  and 
his  hat. 

It  was  ev^ing  wheil  he  arrived  at  the  palace.  His 
master  had  been  waiting  for  him  impatiently.  Without 
asking  a  question,  the  master  began  to  whip  his  servant, 
because'  hfe  had  lost  everything  except  their  baggage. 
The  servant  would  have  suffered  more  had  hot  the  king 
chanced  to  see  him.  Both  were  broiaght  bef oare  the  king, 
who  asked  the  servant  what  the  matter  was.  The  poor 
servant  knelt  before  the  king  with  his  hands  crossed  over 
his  breast,  and  thien'told  the  whole  story.  Seeing^  that 
the  servant  W^s  as  respectful,  bifave,  and 'kind*  as  a  knight 
ought  to  be,  the  king  made  him  a  noble  instead  of  his: 
master*;  ...,..:   .  — Eusebio  Ramos. 

The  Paxable  ot  fttvilEiggaj}  t;iid  the  Givers 

^  *  Good  people,  alms/!  i  Aims  lor  the  poor  |!.' '  ^ined  an 
uncouth  beggar  who .  stood  huddled  alose  to  .  tbei .  cold 
stones:  of  a  shoj>  wall,,  and  there  sought  sheljber  from  the 
wind.- 

Two  brothers,  well  clad  a|xd  warm,  walking  homeward 
together, /turned  a&d.  Ibokod  to  see  whence  thjC  appeal 
came.  The  elder  carelessly,  tossed"  a  silyer  piece  mU>  the 
out-stt^tched  palm,  aind  muttered^  ^^Odious  beggars!'.' 
Then  he  halstenjed  on.  The  youi^ger  5  man,  however, 
stopped  sad  ad^esd.  how  it^wh'  wilMi^g  -  paupcjcism  :ha4 
gained  aaeendaney  over  pride.  ,.The  ahm^-^^kei:  thep  told 


1121  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NABRATIVES 

a  story  of  search  for  einj)hjymeii.t;  6f  repeated  failures, 
find  of  the  final  surrender. o£; self r^eem.  The  youth 
l^itied  the  yagraut;  and  offered  tb  furnish  him  a  method 
of  gaining  independeiuee.  H^^  ireaddiy  aoeepted  the  help 
and  a  neW  worker  began  to  labor  in  the  vineyards  of 
the  brothers. 

Some  years  later,  when  the  time  arrived  for  tlje  peo- 
ple to  send  a  new  burgher  toi  the.  capital  to  represent 
theni,  men  eiame  from  the  city  to.ftsktheifruitr^therers 
which  of  their  employers; should  be  the  c^Jioice  for  the 
office^  Then  the  chief  of  the  workmea  spoke  out,  '*The 
elder  will,  fling  yon  a  eoin  and  a  eurse.  .The  younger 
will  give  you  laws  and  dtoproveniyents  for  your  city.  He 
will  teach  you  to  eara.the* coin  for  youirself/' 

The  next  year  thegiyiear  o£  obaifity  weatto  the  great 
council  in  Berlin^  while  the  givfejr  of  laliftsisweyintended 
the  '  vine-growiiig  and  envied  his  brother 'jS  good  lor- 
tuiie-  :  '   1.  ;.  ;  '    .:  ■       ;  :'.':'      ' 

— ^Dorothea  Knoblock. 

>  ^     ■■      TO.    MLegtnyo  .;.;•../. 

The  word  allegory  is  u^id  widely  'to  fiignifJii^  any 
figurative  and  Sylnbolie  Writing  (proverb^'  parable, 
metaphor,  simile,' 6r  allegoity  prop^) ;  btit- we  are  go- 
ing to  use  it  in  its  distinctive  and  academic  sense  as  a 
rhetorii^al  and=  narratit^  type.    '    :       . 

•  Like  the  f«tble  and  the  pfarablie,'th«  allegory  teaches 
a  lesson ;  like  them  it  is  a  story,  but  longfer  thAn  either, 
Character-  niore  detailed  than  ei<^r.  '  €pnnected  with 
istics  thie  actoris  in.it  are  generally  abstract  ideas 

used  figurdtiyely^  directly  p«rsonifieldA«pfeopleoi^  ad- 
VeMtii^ed  or  used  to  form  the  atmosphere,  the  goal  of 


THE  SYMBOLIC-DIDACTIC  OBOUP  113f 

attaiBinent,  the  place  of '  destmation,  the  road  over 
which' the  hero  travels. :  Por  instimoe,  Youth '«ets  d«t 
from  the  House  of  Innocenod  over  the  Road  of  Life 
and  strays  into  the:  Path  of  Temptation  that  leads^ 
through  the  Wood  of  Erron  Here  he  meets  Falsehood 
and  Shame,  and  overcomes  th«m,  for  the  time  at  least, 
and  passes  through  the  eleariti^  bi  Experience  toward 
the  Castle  of  Ferseveranee,  grim  and  dark  and .  un* 
inviting,  thill  stands 'hard  hj/y%t  beyond,  the<  House 
of  Mirth,  etc.,  etc. 

"When  you  write- an  allegory^  you  will  not  be  so 
trife  as  this  illustrative  elample^  bat  will  giet  a  good 
idea,  a  good  spirittol' lesson,  and  will  teach  it  with  t» 
unique  and  original  pldt  in  which  the  adventures  them- 
selves are  interestiiig.  The  world's  greatest  prose 
allegory,  ^'Pilferitn's  Progress,"  hAs  alwa;^s  been  read 
for  the  story:  The  *  ^  Faerie  Queene*'  as  a  metrical  ro- 
mance and  a  triple*  allegory  of  religion,  Elizabeth's 
court,  and  the  perfccJt  raan^  has  been  a  storehouse  for 
prose  narrators  as*  well  as  fOr  poets  for  three  hundred 
years.  Practically  all  the  old  •  morality  plays  were 
allegories.  *'BTeryman,'^  the  best  extant,  is  very  vital 
indeed  when  put  on  the  stage. 

Plato's  great  myth-allegory  :in  the  **Republic"  wa^^ 
designed  by  him  to  teach  his  people  his*  theory  of  the 
transmigration  of  souls  and:  how  they  might   pi^toV 
safely  pass  over  the  river  of  Pofgetf Illness.  «*Visioii 
without  being  defiled  aUd  might  hold  fast.  ^^^" 
to   the  heavenly  way  and;  follow  after  Justice  and 
Virtue  always,  considering,  that,  thd  soul  is  immortal 
and  able  to  endure  every  sort  of  good  and  every  sort 
of  evil.    PopulM»ly  the  story  is  'known  as  .-a  vision ;  but 


114  TYPES  0(F  EBOSE  NAKRATIVE8 

Socratea,  Plato's  literary,  character  who  tells  the  story, 
calls  it  a  tale,  a  tale  ot  a  brave  man  Er,  the  Son  of 
Armenius,  who,  on  the  twelfth  day,  as  hd  =was  lying 
on  the  funeral  pile,  returned  to  life  and  told  what' he 
had  seen  in  the  other  world. 

This  device  of  ^  vision  was  widely  l^dopted^  doubt- 
less indirectly  from  Plato^  aJs  a  good  framework  for 
allegory.  We  find  the  medieval  poets  dreaming  dreams 
and  letting  their  souls  depart  from  their  bodies  pretty 
generally. 

The  romance  and  the  allegory  were  the  pr'ime 
medieval  types^  and  we  find  them  persisting  together 
Modeni  ^^  apart  in  our  own  English  literature  from 
AltegoriAs  William  Langland's  f'Pifers  the  Plowman'' 
with  its  Tower  of  Truth,  CiOlnscience^  Envy,  Advice  of 
Hunger,  and  the  like,  to  Henry  Van  Dyke's ' ''Blue 
Flower''  with  its  crystal'^ river  flowing  from  a  myste- 
rious source.  ''The  Hunter"  and  'the  "Artist's  Se- 
cret" by  Olive  Sehreiner  and  "PoemA  in  Prose"  by 
Osca^  Wilde  are.  exquisite  mddem  examples.  Na- 
thaniel Hawthorne  wrote- scarcely  anything  that  is  not 
inlaid  with  allegory.  -  The  *' Great  Stone  Face"  is  a 
fine  instance  of  how  concrete  pure  allegory  .can  be. 
It  teaches  a  beautifully  spiritual  truth  by  the  portrayal 
of  American  customs;  and.  everydaiy  human  shortsight- 
edi^ess^  A  good  Oerman.  prose  allegory  is  "Peter 
SeJilemihl:  or^  The  Mari  Who  Sold  hisShadow*"  Ste- 
venson's tremendous  study,  "Th^  Strange  Case  of  Dr. 
Jekyll  atod  Mr.  Hyde,  "is  reaJJy  allegoty. 

A  review  of  the  nanles:.of  the  older  but  famous 
allegories  will  be  perhaps  more  interesting  and  sug- 
gestive than  the  perusal  frpm  beginning  to,  eiid  of  any 


THE  SYMBOLIC-DIDACTIC  GROUP  115 

oae  of  them  would  be,  for  they  are  for  the  most  part 
loBg  and  tedious. 

In  early  Anglo-Saxon  verse  we  find  appearing  the 
favorite  device  of  allegory,  the  vision.    In  the  **  Dream 
of  the  Rood''  the  author  tells  of  how  he  saw  Some 
a  strange  Tree,  Ihe  gallows  of  shame,  now  ^^^JJ 
the  glorious  Tree  of  the  Savior,  and  how  it  aUegories 
told  its  life-history.    **The  Address  of  the  Soul  to  the 
Body*'    is    a    grim    allegorical    dialogue.      In    *'The 
PhoeniX)"'the  fabulous  bird  r^resents  Christ,  as  does 
also  the  Pianther  in  the  other  poem,  the  sweet-breathed, 
lonely,  harmless  beast.    These  are  all  verse,  and  with 
the  exception  of  the  ** Dream  of  the  Rood"  hardly  nar- 
rative.    The  last  two  are  really  English  bestiaries. 
'*The  Bomaunt  of  the  Rose,"  the  greatest  medieval 
allegory,     in    its     English     form,     contains    seventy- 
six  hundred  ninety-eight  lines.    You  will  find  all  these 
included  in  Chaucer's  work,  but  only  seventeen  hun- 
dred five  are  his.^     The  **Parlament  of  Poules"  and 
the  ^'H^ouse  of  Fame,"  however,  are  his,  but  not  '*The 
Court  of  Love,*'  ''the  Flower  and  the  Leaf,"  ''The 
Cockowe  and  the  Nightingale."    Between  Chaucer  and 
Spenser  come  Dunbar's  '-Thistle  and  the  Rose"  and 
*'The  Golden  Tai«e;"  Lydgate's  "Temple  of  Glass;" 
Hawes's  "Pastime  of  Pleasure;"  Douglas's  "Palace  of 
Honour  "'and  "King  Hart;"  Lyndesay's  "Dream"  and 
'* Complaint  of  Papingo;"  Barclay's  "Ship  of  Fooles;" 
Sackville's  "Induction"  to  the  "Mirror  for  Magis- 
trates. "    After  Spenser,  besides  Phineas  Fletcher 's '  *  The 
Purple  Island"  and  Bunyan's  "Pilgrim's  Progress," 
come  Addison's  "Vision  of  Mirza,"  Pamell's  "Para- 


*According  to  Skeat. 


116  TYPES  OF  PHOSE  NAKBATXVBS 

dise^  of  Fooles/'  Thoniison's  ''Castle  of  Jadolence," 
Johnson's  ''Journey  of  a  Day/'  Collin's  "The  Pas- 
sions/' and  Aikin's  "The  Hill  of  Science." 

In  the  beautiful  Elizabethan  English  tranalation  we 
have  «lso  the  allegories  of  the  Bible,  of  which  the 
"Twenty-third  Psalm"  is  doubtless  the  best  known  ex- 
ample, as  it  is  perhaps  the  best  loved  quottation  from 
the  Old  Testament,  All  the  psalms  put  their  truths 
allegorically  in  the  broad  literary  senae.  Bzekiel» 
Isaiah,  and  the  other  prophets  oftea  speak  ii^  strict 
allegorical  narratives,  which  they  cixplskin  either  iipame- 
diately  or  later.  The  great  literary^  beauty  of  the 
"Revelation"  depends  on  the  exquisite  use  of  allegory; 
the  leaves  of  the  tree  of  life  are  for  the  healing  of  the 
nations;  the  water  of  the  river  of  life  is  for  everyone 
that  thirsteth. 

Mention,  of  Hawthorjae's  use  of  allegoiry  oall^  to 
mind  the  distinction  a  student  of  narrative  types,  must 
Allegory     make  between  parable  on  the  one  hand  and  a 
*«**  particular  kind  of  allegory  on  the  other,  that 

distin-  kind  in  which  there  are  no  abstra.ctions.  He 
fished  asks  himself,  What  is  the  difference  when 
both  narratives  have  only  people  for  actors?  He  finds 
the  answer  in  the  fact  that  the  actors  of  the  parable 
are  always  representatives  of  a  type,  doing  nothing 
outside  the  type,  nothing  individual,  while  the  factors 
of  that  sort  of  allegory  in.  which  there  are  no  peirsoni- 
fied  abstractions  are  always  individu?.!  men,  even 
though  they  may  have  universal  vices  or  virtues ;.  that 
is,  they  perform  individual  deeds  and  gothroiugh  pe- 
culiar experiences,  that  not  all  the  men  of  their  class 
could  perform  and  go  through.     But  although  more 


THE  SYMBOLIC-DIDACTIC  GROUP  H? 

individual,  the  allegory  is  less  human  than  the  parablej 
for  the  happenings  of  the  parable  are  always. probable^ 
while  those  of  the  allegory  may  be  probable,  improbable, 
or  so  fantastic  as  to  be  wholly  impossible. 

The  allegory  is  usually  longer  also  than  the  parabl^. 
Besides,  unlike  the  parable,  the  allegory  demands  no 
interpretation  from  without,  but  carries  its  interpreta- 
tion along  from  name  to  name.  Hence  the  allegory  can 
be  said  to  be  an  extended  metaphor,  and  the  parable^ 
a  long  half  simile.  On  the  other  hand,  many  proverba 
are  concise  parables  and  many  are  also  briefi  allegories. 

Allegory  meets  fable  on  the  fact  that  bQth  may  be 
satiric;  but  stands  aside  from  fabl^  on  the  fact  that 
allegory  is  much  longer  and  employs  per- 
sonified abstractions  as    characters.      Haw^  aadfaSe 
theme's  ** Celestial  Bailroad"  is  an  example  distin- 
of  humorous*»atirid  allegory.    .  Parable^  we? 
recall,  is  always  spiritual,  allegory  often  ^o,  and  fable 
never. 

When  you  set  out  to  write,  therefore,  you  will  l^ave 
in  mind  a  general  summary  somewhat  like  this,:  An 
allegory  fe  a  narrative  of  imaginary  events  WtoUng  ; 
designed  to  teach  a  series  of  utilitarian  or  ^9fi«itipn 
spiritual  truths — the  actors  in  the  events;  b^ng  ei^hey 
individuals  with  typical  follies,  vices,  aiad  virtues,  or 
personified  abstractions  that  go;  through  individiial  an4 
particular  experieiices.     ; 

To  proceed  to  write  originSaJ  allegory  you  will  need 
to  pay  especial  attention  to  (1)  the  series  of  h^j^^^  «; 
lessons  you  mean  to  teach:  Shall  it  ,be  in, the  wt!W . 
realm  of  pit^itics,  trade,  education,  or  gcsneifal  ^^l^so^y 
morals?     (2)  The  tone  of  your  teaching:   ShaU,  itb^ 


118  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NABBATIVES 

ImiiioroxLs  or  gr^we?  (3)  The  kind  of  piersoiiages :  Shall 
they  be  real  persons  made  more*or Jesa  typical  and  ab- 
stract, or  shall  they  be  abstraotbus  made  moreK>r-less 
concrete  and  individuaH  (4)  The  coiarae  of  the  aetion: 
What  shall  happen  ?  There  must  be  something  a-doing 
that  is  in  itself  interesting  aiid  that  has  a  beginning, 
a  middle,  and  an  end.  You  must  not  fall  into  the  error 
of  merely  enumerating  and  cataloguing.  You  must 
have  a  definite  action  going  forirard  in  which  your 
personages  take  a  necessary  part;  Allegory,  fell  into 
disrepute  in  the  past  because  ot  the  attempts  of  lazy 
and  careless  writers.  There  is  evidence  of  its  revival 
as  a  popular  type.  A  present-rdayi. writer  in  the 
Atlantic  Monthly  has  shown  us  how  vigorous,  inform- 
ing, and  pungent  it  may  be:  **Tke  Novelist's  Alle- 
gory'* is  entirely  worth  while  wilih  its  good  old-fash- 
ioned flavor.  (5)  You  must*  pay  attention  to  the  char- 
acterizations :  yon  must  see  to  it  that  the  speeches  you 
put  into  the  mouths  of  your  creatures  could  be  deliv- 
ered by  them  in  the  world  or  society  you  have  got 
together.  Everything  in  the  .action — ^the  time,  the 
place,  the  characters  of  the  persons— m;ast  oonfojrm  to 
the  ideal  nature  of  the  subject.  The  laws  of  the  aetual 
universe  you  may  violate,  but  not  the  laws  of  your 
imaginary  universe.  Moreover,  the  nearer  the  actual 
and  the  imaginary  come  together  on  essentials^  the 
more  effective  your  preaching,  will  be,  What  you 
write  as  author's  narrative  must  be  vital  and  con- 
tributive. 

Make  your  description  of  dress  and  gesture .  so 
vivid  that  it  will  quicken  the  imagination  of  your 
readers.    Never  yourself  think  of  your  personagea  a^ 


THE  SYMBOIilC-DiPACTIC  0ROUP  119 

abstraetions.  .  Let  .tbern  live  end  move  before  you  m 
real  beings;  then  tell  about  them. 

A  testimony  to  the  return  of  allegory  into  good 
favor  is  its  use  on  the  stage.  We  no  longer  are  afraid 
to  see  that  Ibsen's  ^^Peer  Oynt"  is  an  allegorical  satire 
and  not  the  bueolie  Ibve  tale  that  some  persons  try  to 
make  it^  and  that  even  the  wonderful  scene  of  Ase's 
death  is  pathos  serving  satire.  Maeterlinck's  '^Blue 
Bird^"  which  is  unmistakable  allegory,  has  pleased  the 
latest  theater-going  public  high  and  low. 

This  thought  leads  to  a  word  in  general  on  primi- 
tive types.  Although  it  is  becoming  the  fashion  to  be 
interested  in  them^  and  hence  many  poor 
j2^^^^t^  specimens  both  in  prose  and  verse  will  get 
in  iittDii-  into  print,  yet  the  writing  of  such  simple 
^^  ami  idealistic  things  by  way  of  reaction 
from  our  intense  and  often  hectic  realism,  is  surely  in 
the  main  wholesome,  regardless  of  the  value  of  the 
individual  pieceit.  Years  ago  Count  Tolstoy  said,  **The 
artist  of  the  future  will  understand  that  to  compose  a 
fairy-tale,  a  little  song  which  will  touch,  a  lullaby  or  a 
riddle  which  will  entertain,'  a  jest  which  will  amuse, 
or  to  draw  a  sketch  su6h  as  will  delight  dozens  of 
generaiioBS  or  millionB  of  children  and  adults,  is  incom- 
parably more  important  and  more  fruitful  than  to 
com^se  a-  novel,  or  a  symphony,  or  paint  a  picture  of 
the  kind  which  diverts  some  members  of  the  wealthy 
classes  for  a  short  time  and  is  then  forever  forgotten. 
The  region  of  thiS  art  of  the  simplest  feelings  acces- 
sible to  all  is  enormous,  and  it  h  as  yet  almost  un- 
touched." Of  course  the  hope  of  literary  eatcellenee. 
for  such  an  epochs  if  it  comes,  wiU  lie  ia  the  possibility 


120  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NABUtATIVES 

of  the  pieoes  being  kept  as  Tolstoy's  own  <  are,   very 
near  to  the  naive. 

The  Artist 

One  evening  there  cJEune-into  kid  soul  the  desire  to 
fashion  an  image  of  The ^Pl^asuwe 'that  abideth  for  a  Mo- 
ment. And  he  went,  forth' into,  the  world  to  lobk  for 
broo^se. .  For  he  oonld  thinfc:only  in  brenaei 

:But.  alLthe  broife2e''of  tike  wiioile  world  had  disap- 
peared, nor  anywheoretin  tbf^  wh6te>  world  was  there  any 
bronge  to  beifownd^isflveionly.tiie  hrinae  of  the  image 
of:  The  Sotraw  that  endureih  forever ^  :  •  / 
;.  .  Now  this  image  the:; had  himaelfi,'  and  with  liis  own 
hands,  fashkmed,  and  ih«d  set  it- on  the  tomb  of  the  one 
thing  he  bad  lovsd  in  life.'*  ©n  tjietoinb  of  the  dead 
thing  he  had  most  loved  had  he  set  tihis  imiige  of  his  own 
f fashioning,  that: it  might  serve' as  la  sign  of  tiie  love  of 
mail  that  dieth  not,  and  £l  symbol  ,of  the'sokrow  of  man 
that  endujpeth  forever.  And  in: the'  whole  w6rld  tiiere 
waanp  other  bronze' save  the  farcbnze  of  ^  iMs  image. 

And  he. took  the  iitiiage'he'faadfashibiled^  and  set  it 
in  a  great  funlao^,  and.gajre  it.torthe  fir^l 

And  out  o£  this  bricmze  of 'the  linage- of  The  Sorrow 
that  endureth  forever^  hJe:  fashioned  an;  ima^e  of  The 
Pleasuf^e  thatiabideth  fjor  amonnenh  'V-  ' 

v-:.Osoar  Wili^. 

'^Poems-itt  P^oseM  (£\>itiushtiy.  B^tiew;  July;  1,  1894). 

ne  House  at -Jn^iffpiffinJ^  ,,  \ 

And  there  WAs  silence  in  the  House  of  Judgment, 
and  the  Man  i^ame  naked  before  God.  - 
'    Aiid  Gpd  opened  th<e  Book'Of  the  Li^e  of  the  Man. 


THE  SYMBOLICDI'DACTIO  GKOUP  12I 

And  Qod  said  to  the  Man,  ' -Thy  life  hath  Dean  evil, 
and  thou  hast  shown-  oriielly  t6  those  in  need  of  succor, 
and  to  those  who-  laeked  help  thou  hast:  bden  bitter  knd 
hard  of  heart.  The  poor  called  to  thee  and  thou  did 'st 
not  hearken,  and'  thine  eaops- were  closed  to  the  cry  >o(£  my 
afOicted.  The  inheritance  of  the  fatherless  thoni  did'afc 
take  unto  thyself^  and  thou  did^st  send' the  foxes' into  the 
vineyard  of  thy  n4igltt)orb  ifield.'  Thou  did 'st  take  the. 
bread  of  the  chlldreki  and  ^ive  it  to  the  dogs  to  eat, 
and  my  lepeifs  whoUvedin  the  marshes,  aiid  were  at 
peace  and  praised  m^  ifaou.did^st  drive  fortii  on  the  hig^^ 
way,  and  on  mine  etkthoiat  6t  whieh>  I  made. thee  thoa 
did'st  spill  innocent  bloodi'' 

And  the  Man  made  answer  and  said, ' '  Even  so  did  I. '  '• 

And  ugain  Ood  opened  the  Book  of  the  Idfie  o£  the. 
Man.    '  ,•■..•.•.' 

And  Qod  said  to  the  Man,  '**Thy  life  hath  been  ervil, 
and  the  Beauty  X  have  sho'ien,. thou. hast  sought  for/ and 
the  Good  I  have  hidden,  thou  did'st  pass  by.  The  ^alls 
of  thy  chamber' were  piimted  with  images]  afad  froni.the 
bed  of  thine  abominations  thoil  did/st  rise  tip.to'the'6ound 
of  flutes.  Thou  did'st  build  seven  altars  iDithe^  sdns  I 
have  suffered,  and  did^'at^eat  of  the  thing  that  liiay  not 
be  eaten,  and  the  purple. of  thy* iraiment  wasbroidered 
with  the  three  signa-tKf  shame.  :Thy  idols  were  neither  of 
gold  nor  of  silver  .that.: endure,  ibiit  of  i  fleish' that  dieth. 
Thou  did'st  stain  their  hair  with  perfumes,  and  put 
pomegranates  In  their' hands.  Thou  did'st  stain  their 
feet  with  saffron  and  sprisad  darplets  b^ore* them;  With 
antimony  thou  did'st  stain  th«ir' eyelids  alnd  their  bodies 
thou  did 'stsfchear -with  myrrh:  Thbu*  did'st  bow  thyself 
to  the  ground  before  them,  and  the  thrones  of  thy^  idols 


11^2  TYPES  OP  PBOSE  NARRATIVES 

were  set  in  the  sim.    Thou  did'st  show  to  the  sun  thy 
shame  and  tO'  the  ixieon  thy  madnesni." 

And  the  Man  made  anfiwer  ajod  saiid^  ''Evaii  so 
did  I/' 

And  the  third  timd  God  opened  the  Book  of  the  Life 
oftheMan. 

And  Gk)d  said  to  the  Man,  '-Evil  hath  been  tiiy  life, 
and  with  evil  did'st  thou  requite  good^  and  with  wrong- 
doing kindness.  The  hands  that  fed  thee  thou  ^d'at 
wound,  and  the  breasts  that  gave  thee:  suek  thou  did'st 
despise.  He  who  came  to  thee /vrith<  water  w0nt  away 
thirsting  and  tiie  outlawed  men  who  hid  thee  in  their 
tents  at  night  thou  did'st  betray  before-  dawn.  Thine 
enemy  who  spared  thee  thou  did'st  slay  in  an  ambush, 
and  the  friend  who  walked  with  th^e  thoiu  did'st  sell  for 
a  price,  and  to  those  who  brought  thee  Love,  thou  did'st 
ever  give  Lust  in  thy  turn." 

;     And  the  .Man  made  answeir  and;  said,     ^'Even  so 
didL^' 

And  God  closed  the  Book  of  tbe  Life  of  the  Man  and 
said,  •*  Surely  I  will  send  thee;t<r  Bell-  Even  into  Hell 
will  I  send  tiiee.^' 

And  the  Man  eried  out^    * '  Thou  can  'st  not. ' ' 

And  God  said  to  the  Man,  **  Wherefore  can  I.  not 
send  thee  to  HeU,  and  fbr  what  reason?" 

^''Because  in  Hell  I  have  always  lived,"  answered  the 
Man. 

And  there  was  silence  in  the  House  of  Judgment. 

And  after  a  spaoe  Qod  q[)ake,  and  said  to^  the  Man, 
'/Seeing  that  I  may  not  send  thee  ilit6  Hell,  surely  I 
will  send  thee  unto  Heaven.  Even  unto  Heaven  will  I 
send  thee." 


THE  SYMBOLIC-DIDACTIC  CROUP  123 

And  the  Man  cried  out,  '^Thou  caxk'st  not." 
And  Qod  said  to  the  Man,    '^Wherefore  ean  I  not 
send  thee  unto  Heaven  and  for  what  reason  ? " 

'  *  Becwse  never,  and  in  no  place,  have  I  been  able  to 
ima^ne  it,"  answered  the  man. 

And  there  was  edlenee  in  the  House  of  Judgment. 

—Ibid. 
.    !l!9ie  Cliiaii  That  Binds 

It  was  morning  when  the  youth  started  out  from  hid 
father's  house  and  sought  the  highway.  Those  the  youiig 
man  met  on  the  rojtd  inquired  of  him,  **  Where  are  you 
going?    What  do  you  seek?" 

He  answered,  **I  seek  Freedom!" 

''Freedom!"  exclaimed  his  questioners.  *'Are  you 
not  free?    Are  we  not  all  our  own  masters?" 

The  young  man  smiled.  '*I  do  not  mean  freedom  of 
thought  and  speech.  That  you  may  have.  What  I  gfeek 
is  liberation  from  heredity  and  environment,  from  the 
physical,  intellectual,  and  spiritual  laws  that  tyrannize 
over  us  and  make  us  slaves." 

His  listeners  turned  away,  some  laughed,  and  some 
scorned,  and  some  wept,  and  the  young  man  traveled  on. 
But  all  along  the  road  he  met  those  that  scorned  him  and 
laughed  at  him,  and  soon  his  steps  lagged,  and  his  feet 
seemed  leadein.  Looking  down,  he  saw  a  chain  binding 
his  ankles — the  chain  of  Public  Opinion.  Now  he  must 
delay.  Angrily  he  tore  at  the  chain  nntil  the  hasp* 
broke,  and  he  stood  unbound. 

Then  he  'made  haste;  for  he  had  already  lost  much 
time.  Soon  he  met  a  vender  of  goods,  and  the  vender 
stopped  and  besought  the  youth  to  buy  a  jewel.  The 
young  man  desii*ed.the  jewel,  and  he  thought,  '*  Why  can 


124  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

I  not  beat  this  man  and  steal  his  jewel  t"  But  lo,  his 
hand*  were  fettered  with  the  chain  bf  Conscience,  and 
he  wrenched  the  chain  till  it  fell  ax)art.  Then  he  beat 
the  man  and  took  his  jewel  and  went  on  his  way. 

Ahead  of  him  he  saw  a  cloudy  and  from  the  cloud 
arose  a  mist,  and  the  miist  formed  its^  into  many  shapes, 
strange  signs  and  symbols,  the  like  of  which  he  had  never 
seen  before.  The  youth  6ried  iont,  '^  This  is  a  new  faith ; 
I  will  embrace  it. ' '  But  his  arms  we^^  bou^d  behind  him 
with  the  chain  of  Superstitiota;  tmd  he  s};rove  to  break 
the  chain,  but  when  the  lock  gave. way,  the  cloud  and 
mist  had  disappeared. 

Thus  year  after  year  sped  onj  the  youth  became  a 
man ;  the  man  grew  old  before  his  time.  When  he  broke 
a  fettef ,  a  new  one  took  it^  place.  The  chains  that  bound 
him  wercinjaumerable*  One  by;  one  be  brofce  the  laws 
that  society  and  the  a^es  had  formed  for  him,  but  each 
wish  that  h^.grati$ed  gave. place  to  another. 

The  chains:  that  he.  ha4  worn,  and  wrenched  weighed 
on  him.  His  flesh  and  spirit  were  0baf ed  and  sore.  Weak 
and  disheartened  be  sank  down,  an^  the  menipiy  of  his 
fruitless  life  recurred  to  him.  A  ypie^  arrested  hi^n,  and 
looking  up  he  saw  a  maja  older  apid  more. withered  than 
he  was. 

And  the  stranger,  said,^  .  '^Beh<>ld^the  chain  that  binds 
you  now. ' '  The  Seeker-af terTFreedom  looked  down;.  His 
auklep  were  ene^mbej^  by  the  hetavie^t  chain. he  had  yet 
worn.  .     '. 

.  The  old  man  continued.  **  You  flaunted  yourself  in 
the  face  of  your  fellows*.  You  boasted  that  you  were 
greater  than  they.  You  are,,  in  that  you  are  the  arch- 
Wjoner.  .  You  bave:  sought  to  destrpy.  those  gifts  with 


THE  SyMBOLICBIDACTIC  GBOVP  l»5r 

which  the  Almighty  eudowed  you.  You  found  it  easy 
to  break  the  fetter  of  I^ove;  of  CousciewQi  afHemprse* 
This  chain  you  cannot  break,  Ypu  welded  it  yourjself. 
The  strength  of  an  armed  force  cannot  tear  it  aeimder; 
the  fires  of  Perdition  cannot  m^lt  it. "  . 

The  traveler  died,  bound  with  the  chain  of  InsatiaJ^te 
Desire.  ... 

— Elizabeth  Sudbopough*    . 

Tbe  Love  Whiqli  Suxpassed  All .  Other  Loves 

The  girrs  heart  was  lonely.  She  had  n^ver  had  the 
comforts  of  a  hoa^  And  there  was  a  yearning  for  soQie 
love  which  would  fill  }mv  life.  So  she  dicterniined  Ui.  aet 
out  in  search  of  such  a  love.  In  her  wande:i?ings  E(he  m^t, 
many  hardships,  and  was  scorned  by  every Qne  as  i^sim* 
pleton. .  ..   ' . 

After  she  bad  wandered  a  year,  one  d|iy  a  great  eagle 
flew  to  her,  and  said*  '*I  know  what  you  are  seflkiag.  I 
can  satisfy  your  waiit$,  I. am  the  governing  force  otthd 
worlds  I  am  Love  of  Gold*  Tjjte  me,  aztd  while  I  am 
with  you,  all  will  be  well  with  you."  -  .  ; 

For  a  momei^t  the  girl,  was  dazzled  by  the  comforts 
which  seemed  stretched  out  before  her  if  sfce.  would  ao* 
cept  this  lioves.  But  her  he$rt  waSf  not  satisfied,*  and  shQ 
shook  her  head.  The  eagle  flew  away  with  a  taunting 
laugh. 

Another  year  passed  and  still,  she  had  met.  nothing 
to  quiet  her  longing.  But; one, day  as.  she  was >  walking 
throTagh  a  village,  $hefiaw.a  happy  family  seated  on  the 
door-step  of  a  neat  cottage.  :  While  she  was  looking  at 
this  grou|>»  she  heard  a  voice,,  and,  glaAoingidown^  saw  a 
beautiful  little  wren.  [   :  • 


126  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  KABBATIVBS 

*^ I  am  the  Love  of  a  Mother's  Heart,''  said  the  little 
bird.  **When  all  others  fail,  I  still  remain  true.  Take 
me  and  hide  me  in  yottr  bosom,  that  your  mother's  heart 
may  be  tender  to  you. " 

Tears  came  to  the  girl's  eyes,  for  the  little  bird  Imd 
touched  a  wound  in  her  life,  the  neg'kct  of  her  by  her 
mother.  But  her  longing  was  not  yet  satisfied,  and  so  she 
passed  on. 

At  the  end  of  another  year  she  was  walking  along 
the  side  of  a  quiet  pond.  She  stopped  and  looked  at 
the  water,  envying  it  its  peace.  A  blue-jay  was  perched 
on  the  branch  of  a  tree  nearby,  and  soon  he  spoke  to  her. 
''J  am  the  Love  of  Man  for  Woman.  I  have  been  known 
since  the  beginning  of  time.  Let  me  be  with  you,  that 
you  may  be  a  good  wife." 

The  girl  was  strongly  tempted  to  take  this  Loye  of 
which  she  had  heard  so  maieh.  Perhaps  this  was,  after 
all,  the  Love  she  was  seeking.  As  she  meditated,  the  old 
longing  came  back  with  redoubled  force.  It  would  not 
do  to  make  this  Love  a  part  of  her  life,  so  she  sadly  left 
the  blue-jay,  and  went  on. 

The  next  year  came,  and  tiie  girl  had  become  a 
woman,  but  her  heart  was  still  empty  of  love.  She  en- 
tered a  quiet  grcfve  one  evening,  and,  wearied,  sat  down 
on  a  log. 

A  lovely  nightingale  came  and  perched  itself  on  her 
shoulder,  and  in  a  sweetly  comforting  tone  said,  *  *  Many 
have  had  the  same  longing  which  yon  have  had ;  but  few  , 
have  possessed  the  courage  to  resist  temptations  offered 
by  other  loves.  I  am  the  Love  of  Woman  for  Woman, 
the  Love  of  True  Friendship.  I  am  greater  and  more  en- 
during than  any  other  love.    Take  me  and  hide  me  in 


THE  SYMBOLIC-DIDACTIC  GROUP  127 

your  heart.    You  will  be  happy  then  as  few  are  privi- 
leged to  be." 

The  girl  was  comforted,  and  she  took  the  beautiful 
bird  and  placed  it  next  her  heart.  At  last  her  longing 
was  satisfied,  and  sbe  praised  God  for  His  Oift. 

— ^Florence  Gifford. 


i         CHAPTER  in 

THE  INGENIOUS- ASTONISHING   GROUP 

This  large  division  of  narratives  of  imaginary  events 
is  somewhat  hard  to  name  briefly,  though  it  is  defi- 
nitely enough  marked  off  as  a  distinct  class  when  we 
consider  the  tone,  the  source,  and  the  purpose.  The 
whole  air  of  these  extravagant  tales  is  that  of  sophisti- 
cation. No  reader  however  ignorant  would  mistake 
them  for  stories  of  primitive  people.  Though  they 
sometimes  contain  supernatural  creatures  as  actors, 
though  they  recount  stupendous  deeds,  though  they 
often  proceed  in  simple  diction,  yet  the  reader  is  never 
confused  as  to  the  state  of  mind  of  the  narrator.  It 
is  plain  that,  however  much  he  may  seem  to  wish  to 
create  credulity  in  the  mind  of  the  reader,  the  story- 
teller has  none  in  his  own  mind.  He  is  a  non-believer 
— or  better  perhaps,  a  ** make-believer,''  in  the  chil- 
dren's sense  of  the  term.  The  source  of  his  narrative 
is  ingenuity,  and  the  purpose  is  astonishment  or  satire. 
In  the  present  study  we  shall  notice  four  smaller  divi- 
sions of  this  group:  (1)  the  tale  of  mere  wonder, 
(2)  the  imaginary  voyage  with  a  satiric  or  instructive 
purpose,  (3)  the  tale  of  scientific  discovery  and 
mechanical  invention,  (4)  the  detective  story  and  other 
tales  of  pure  plot 

128 


THE  INGEKIO'Ud-ASTOI^ISHING  0BOUP  Igfl 

i    the  Tate  of  llepe  WMider 

In  the  species  Tstles  bf'Metfe  "Wonder,  we  mean  to 
classify  those  stories  of  marvelW  that  are  told  "#ith  the' 
simple  purpose  of  astonishing.     The  adven-  collections 
tures  of  ,Sinhad  •  the  Sailor  are'  typiahl.    He  of  ^^udet 
comes' ti|)c«i  a  bird's  egg,  for  instianee,  which  •*®'*** 
he  rit  first  mistakeisi  f6r' the  dome  of  a  eathedral,  or 
walkiii  in  a  valley  ctlvet'ed  with  diamonds  the  size  of 
apples.    The  ^  Pei-sito  Tales"  'likfe'  the .  Arabia'n  *  *  Thoti- 
sand   and  One   Nights'"' are   Stories  of  wonder   and 
enchantment.  '  Though*  they  are  very  old,   many'  of 
them  much  61der  than  iSieii-  written  form  and  trace- 
able   to   the    traditions    of   various    countries,    these 
Orientar  stories  as  We  havfe*  them  to-dfey  ai^e  not  folk- 
tales in  the  Strict  sfense  of  the  term:    Th^y  are  put  into 
a  frame-work  and  are  acknowledged 'to  be  nari'atives 
of  ingenuity.     The  two  earlier  sets,  tranklttted  into 
French,  produced  many  imitations.  Besides  these  there* 
are  the  ''Tartar  Tales,''  the  ''Chinese  Tales,''  "Mogol 
Tales,"  the  "Turkish  Tales, '^  and  so  on.     Tlie  most 
literary  and  perhap^  the  most  valuable  from  thb  point 
of  view  of  real  thinking  displayed  in  them  are  the 
very  modern  Oriental  stories  qJ- George. Meredith,  pub- 
lished under  the   title*  *' The   Shaving  of  Shagpat." 
They  are  all  wonder  tales  though  extremely*  *  philo- 
sophical.    Robert  Louis  Stevenson  has  given  us  the 
*'New  Arabian  Nights:'*  ^  -    . 

To  write  one  of  th^se' exaggerations' yon  need'ohly 
recall  your  bWn  or  6thfei*pers6ns*  attempts  at '    3^^^^. 
the  firei^de  when  the  ^tbck  of  folk  stories  has     tfohslbr'' 
run  low.    T6u  address  your  efforts  to  yotir'    ^^^}^^  •• 
eight  and  ten-year-old  brothers  who  have  got  past  Jack- 


130  TYPES  OP  PB08E  NAR8ATIVBS  / 

the-Oiant-Eiller  «jid  are  ia  tke  stege  of  tievelopment  that 
the  people  of  the  twelfth  c/entuiy  wer^  to  whom  Marie 
de  France  told  her  f fvblea  and ,  her  stories  of  mere 
wonder.  The  fine  ladies  and  gentlemen  of  Henry  the 
Second's  day  loved  to  hear  of  costly  robes  and  magic 
carpets  and  jewelled  beds  worth  half  a  kingdom,  that 
came  at  the  touch  of  a  ring  or  at  the  murmuring  of  a 
s^^ret  phase.  Unfortunate  princes,  tx)o,  thqy  enjoyed 
being  told  about,  who  allowed  themselves  to  be  misled 
by  wily  councilors,  and  lost  for  a  time  their,  kingdoms ; 
beautiful  princesses  who  sat  eAchan1|ed  in  gorgeous 
underground  palaces^,  waiting,  their  deliverers  j  won- 
derful plants  with  otherwhere  ^nheard•of  properties; 
and  animals  with  stupendous  powers,  like  the  mon- 
strous birds  that  t}>e  Arabian  writer  says  carried 
Nimrod  through  the  air  in  a  cage  or  with  out-stretched 
wings  sheltered  Solomon's  army  from  the  sun. 
Chaucer,  you  know,  began  and 

^left  half  toH         .♦ 
The  story  of  Cambuscan  bold^ 
Of  Camball  and  of  Algarsife, 
And  who  had  Canace  to  wife, 
That  owned  the  virtuous  ring  and  gkss^ 
And  of  the  wondrous  horse  of  brass 
On  which  the  Tartar  king  did  ride.^^ 

This  horse  had  a  screw  in  his  ear.  Jf  one  ^ot  upon 
his  baek,  turned  the  screw,  and  whispered  a  word,  one 
might  be  instantly  in  the  kingdom  one  named.  If  you 
can  not  dream  out  an  original  oriental  story  pjE  your 
own,  you  might  finish  this  of  Chaucer's — The  Squire's 
Tale.     Bemwnber  that  probability  is  not  called  for, 


THE  INOENIOUSASTONISHINO  GROUP  13Ji 

but  .^iiilj  mAgnifteence,  splendor,  magic,  daring,  and 
success  on  the  part  of  your  hero  or  heroine.  Eithei^ 
may  have  wealth  untold,  dominion'  unlimited,  and 
knowledge  aupeirnatural.  Yoiur  dietion  maj  range 
from  the  sitnpleat  and  the  baldiest  to'  the  most  hutu* 
riant  and  extravagant.  Whatever  matxthes  yoior  sab*< 
ject,  no  matter  how  extravagantly  imptrobable^  will  be 
acceptable. 

Like  the  stories  of  mere  wonder — ^in  fact  a  blending 
of  them  with  legend — ^were  the  medieval  tales  of  chiv- 
alry  in  the   later   and  perverted   editions,   jj^^yy^gl 
The  elements  are  thfe  isame  as  those  of  the  tales  of 
wonder  tale,  With  the  addition  of  riotous  ^^•^ 
history;  that  is,  the  using  of  any  deed  df  aiiy  hero  for 
him  or  for  Someone  else.  With- all  the  glamonr  of  mliigle 
and  luxuriance  thrown  about  it. 

To  modem  readers  a  Very  uninteresting  Jc^eriersion 
of  thfe  type  of  narrative  is  the  heroic  romance  of  the* 
second  and  third  quarters  of  the  seventeenth  Heroic 
century,  best  i^presented  perhaps  by  tie  romances 
Grand  Cyrus  of  Madam  de  Scud^ri.  Nobody,  I  Slip-' 
pose,  to^ay  who  had  not  a  theory  to  prove  could  be 
persuaded  to  wide  through  the  ff,679  pa^es  of  the  ten! 
octavo  volumes  of  this  walty'stOry.  But  althoti^  the 
particular  Style  of  writing  of  Scudgri  and  her  eon- 
temporatifes  has  passed  away,  and  fortunately  never 
can  return— thankii  to-  Mbllere  and  Bofleau — fantastic 
and  gorgeoufe  prose  history  had  great  popularity  both 
on  the  Continent  arid  ito  England  for  fifty  yeafs:  The 
attitude  of  mind  of  those  narrators  is  found  in  many 
moderns;  namely,  a  desire  tb  deal  only  with  titled 
folk,  or  it  l^ast  millionaires,  fdr  feaT  that  heroes  of 


153  TYPES  OP  PB08E  NAKBATlVfiS 

lower,  social  standing,  or  smaller  bank'aecounts  might 
be  dun. 

Our  present-day  mixers  of  faot  and  non-fact  lean 
toward  the  probable,  of  course,  rather  than  the  mar- 
velous, and  would  resent  being  classed  with  the  heroic 
romancers;  but  any  narrator  would  be  proud  to  be 
able  to  tell  well,  as  everybody  with  a  child-like  heart 
is  delighted  to  listen  to,  an  out-and-out  story  of  mere 
wonder. 

Story  of  the  City  of  Brass 

There  was  in  olden  times  in  Deimaacus  of,  Syria  a 
caliph  iMtmeci  Abdel-Melik,  the  son  of  Mlwrwan.  One  day 
as  he.  was  sittjiiig  with  the  great  men  of  his  empirie^  many 
of  .them  being  kings,  apd  sultans^  a  discussion  took  place 
among  them  about  the  tales  of  ^ooient  nations.  They 
called  to  mindthestpries  of  Solomon,  the  son  of  David, 
and  the  power  God  gave  him  over  g^nies  and  wild  beasts 
and  birds  and  other  creatures,  and  they  8,s^id,  **  We  have 
heard,  from  those  who  lived  before  im  that  God  bestowed 
not  upon  anyone  the  like  of  that  which  he  bestowed  upon 
Solompn,.  So  great  was  his  power  that  h^  used  to  im- 
prison genies  and  evil  spirits  in  bottles  of  brass,  and  pour 
molten  lead  over  them,  a^d  seal  this  coyer  with  his  seal. " 

Then  Talib,  one  of  the  sultans,  related  that,  a  maix 
once  embarked  in  a  ship  with  a  company  of  pthers^.and 
they  sailed  away  towards  the  islsufid  of  Siciiy,  until  a 
storm  arose  \yWch  drove  thepai  out  of  their. course  and 
carried  them  to  the  shores  of.  an  imknown  land.  This 
happened  during  the  dark^iesg  ol  the  night.  In  the 
n^orningth^re  came  out  tp  them  from  caves, in  that  land, 
black  men  who  wore  no  clothes,  a^d  who  neither  spoke 


THE  INGENIOUS- ASTONISHING  GBOUP  I33 

nor  understood  any  language.  They  had  a  king  of  their 
own  race,  and  he  knew  Arabic;  The  king,  with  a  party 
of  his  companions,  came  to  the  ship,  saluted  and  wel- 
comed those  who  were  in  it,  and  inquired  who  they  were 
and  to  what  country  they  belonged.  When  they  in- 
formed him,  he  said  to  them,  '*No  harm  shall  befall  you. 
There  hath  not  come  to  us  one  of  the  sons  of  Adam  be- 
fore-you.'* 

The  king  then  entertained  them  with  a  banquet,  and 
after  this  the  people  of  the  ship  went  to  amuse  them- 
selves on  the  shore.  There  they  found  a  fisherman  who 
had  cast  his  net  into  the  sea  to  catch  fish.  He  drew 
the  net  up,  and  in  it  was  a  bottle  of  brass  stopped 
with  lead,  >  which  was  sealed  with  the  seal  of  Solomon, 
the  son  of  David.  The  fisherman  broke  the  seal,  and 
there  came  forth  from  the  bottle  a  blue  smoke  which 
united  with  the  clouds  of  heaven,  and  instantly  they 
heard  a  horrible  voice  saying,  "Repentance!  repent- 
ance! O  prophet  of  God!'*  Then  they  saw  the  smoke 
form  into  a  man  of  frightful  appearance  and  gigantic 
size,  whose  head  reached  as  high  as  a  mountain,  and  im- 
mediately he  disappeared  from  before  their  astonished 
eyes. 

The  blacks  thought  nothing  of  this  event,  but  the 
people  of  the  ship  were  terrified  at  the  spectacle,  and 
they  went  to  the  king  to  inquire  about  it.  In  answer  to 
their  inquiries  the  king  said,  *'This  is  one  of  the  genies 
who  rebelled  against  King  Solomon,  and  Solomon,  to 
pimish  them,  imprisoned  them  in  bottles  and  threw  them 
into  the  sea.  When  the  fisherman  casts  his  net,  it  gen- 
eraUy  brings  up  one  of  these  bottles,  and  when  the  bot- 
tle is  broken,  a  genie  comes  forth,  and  thinking  that 


134  TYPES  or  PEOSE  NABBATIVES 

Solomon  is  still  living,  he  repents  and  cries  out,  *' Re- 
pentance !    0  Prophet  of  God ! ' ' 

The  Prince  of  the  Faithful,  Abdel-Melik,  wondered 
very  much  at  this  story,  and  he  said,  ''I  desire  to  see 
some  of  these  bottles."  Talib  replied,  '*0  Prince  of  the 
Faithful,  thou  canst  do  so.  Send  to  thy  viceroy  in  the 
western  country,  the  Emeer  Moosa,  ordering  him  to  jour- 
ney to  the  sea  we  have  mentioned,  and  to  bring  what 
thou  desirest  of  these  bottles/'  The  Prince  of  the  Faith- 
ful approved  of  this  advice,  and  he  sent  Talib  himself 
with  a  letter  to  the  Emeer  Moosa. 

When  the  Emeer  received  the  letter  he  read  it,  and 
he  said  to  Talib,  **I  hear  and  obey  the  command  of  the 
Prince  of  the  Faithful.''  The^  he  called  tpgether  his 
great  men,  and  he  inquired  of  them  about  the  bottles  of 
King  Solomon,  and  they  told  him  to  send  for  Abdes- 
Samad,  *'for,"  said  they,  **he  is  a  knowing  man  and  has 
traveled  much.  He  is  acquainted  with  the  deserts  and 
wastes  and  the  seas,  and  their  inhabitants,  and  their 
wonders,  and  their  countries^  and  their  districts.  Send 
for  him,  and  he  will  direct  thee  to  the  object  of  thy 
desire."  So  the  Emeer  sent  for  Abdes-Samad,  and 
when  he  came  he  said  to  him,  **0  Abdes-Samad,  our 
lord  the  Prince  of  the  Faithful  has  commanded  us  to 
get  for  him  some  of  the  bottles  of  Solomon.  I  have  lit- 
tle knowledge  of  the  place  where  they  are  to  be  foimd, 
but  it  has  been  told  to  me  that  thou  art  acquainted 
with  that  country  and  routes.  Wilt  thou  then  help  us 
to  accomplish  the  wish  of  the  Prince  of  the  Faithful?" 
To  this  Abdes-Samad  replied,  **0  Emeer,  the  route 
is  difficult,  far  extending,  and  there  are  few  tracks.  It 
is  a  journey  of  two  years  going  and  the  same  return- 


THE  INGENIOUS  ASTONISHING  GBOUP  135 

ing,  and  on  the  way  tiiere  are  dangers  and  horrors  and 
extraordinary  and  wonderful  things.  Nevertheless, 
since  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Prince  of  the  Faithful)  I. am 
williJi^  to  undertake  the  journey  with  thee." 

Then  they  began  to  make  preparations,  and  as  soon 
as  everything  was  ready,  the  Emeer  Moosa  and  Talib 
and  Abdes-Samad  set  forth^  aeeompftnied  by  a  troop  of 
soldiers,  and  taking  with  them  all  things  necessary  for 
their  expedition.  They  joumeyed  on  till  they  came  to 
a  gref^t  palaoe.  As  the  gates  were  opened,  and  they  saw 
no  guards  at  the  doors,  they  dismounted  from  their 
horses  and  entered.  The  rooms  were  all  of  vast  size 
and  richly  furnished,  and  the  ceilings  and  walls  were 
decorated  with  gold  and  silver,  but  in  the  whole  build- 
ing they  did  not  see  a  sin^e  human  being.  In  the  midst 
of  the  palace  was  a  chamber  covered  with  a  lofty  dome, 
rising  high  into  the  air,  around  which  were  four  hun- 
dred tombs.  They  went  into  one  chamber,  and  they 
found  in  it  a  table  with  four  feet  mlid^  of  alabaster, 
and  having  this  inscription  engraved  on  it 

^'Upon  this  table  a  thousand  one^yed  kings 
have  eaten  and  a  thousand  kings  each  sound  in 
both  eyes.  All  of  them  have  quitted  the  worid 
and  taken  up  their  abode  in  the  burial  grounds 
and  the  graves.'* 

The  Emeer  Moosa  and  his  eompanions  took  this  table 
with  them  and  went  forth  from  the. palace.  Then  they 
proceeded  on  their  journey  and  traveled  for  three  days, 
when  they  came  to  a  high  hill.  *  On  the  top  of  the  hill 
was  a  horseman  of  brass  with  a  spear  in  his  hand.    The 


136,  TYPBS  OF  PEOgE  NARRATIVES 

spear  had  a  flat,  wide  head,  and  it  was  so  bright  that  it 
almost  dazzled  the  eyes  of  the  Bmeer  and  his  companions. 
Nevertheless  they  looked  at  it  elosely,  and  they  were  as- 
tonished at  finding  the  foUofWing  words  inscribed  upon  it: 

'  *'0  thon  who  comest  unto  me^  if  thou  know 
not  the  wiay  tha*  leads  to  the  CSty  of  Brass, 
rub^he  hand  of  the  horsefmto,  and  he  will  turn, 
and  then  will  stop,  and  in  whatever  direction  he 
faces  when  he  stops,  travel  iii  that  direction 
without  fear,  for  it  will  lead  thee  to  the  Oity  of 
Brass.'* 

When  he  read  this  the  Emeer  Moosa  rubbed  the  hand 
of  the  horseman.  Immediately  the  figure  turned  round 
with  the  speed  of  lightning,  and  when  it  stopped  it  faced 
a  different  directidn  from  that  in  which  they  had  been 
traveling.  The  party  therefore  turned  to  the  way 
pointed  out  by  thp  brazen  horseman,  and  proceeded  on 
their  journey.  One  day  they  ^camie  to  a  rbund. pillar  of 
black  stone,  on  the  top  of  which  appeared  the  upper  half 
of  the  body  of  a  bladk  giajait;  or  ge^ie,  with  tia^e  lower  part 
sunk  down  in  the  pillar.  He  was  an  object  frightful  to 
behold.  He  had  two  huge  wings  and  four  arms.  Two 
of  the  arms  were  like  those  of  a  man,  and  the  other  two 
were  like  the  legs  of  a  lion.  He  had  bair  upon  }m  head 
like  the  tails  of  horses,  two  eyes  like  two  burning  coals, 
and  he  had  a  third  eye  in  his  forehead,  like  the  eye  of  a 
lynx,  from  whidi  sparks  of  fire  shot  forth. 

When  the  Emeer  Moosa 's  party  saw  this  genie  they 
almost  lost  their  senses  through  fear,  and  they  turned 
round  to  flee  away^  but  the  Emeer  told  them  that  in  the 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  aBOUP  137 

State  in  whiohhe  was  he  could  do  them  no  harm.  Theoa 
AbdeS'^Saoiiad  drew  near  to  thje  pillar,  and  raising  his 
voice  he  said  to  the  genie,  **0  thou  person,  what  is  thy 
name,  what  i^  thy  nature,  and  what  has  placed  thee  here 
in  this  manner  ?*'  Immediately  the  genie  answered  say* 
ing,  ^  *  I  am  a  genie  and  my  name  is*  Dahish.  * '  [  And  then 
he  told  them  his  nature  and  what  had  placed  him  there.] 
•  And  then  Abdes-Samad  said  to  the  genie  in  the  pillar, 
'^Are  th«re  in  this  place  any  of  the  genies  confined  in 
bottles  of  brass  from  the  time  of  Solomon  f  He  an- 
swered, '^  Yes,  in  the  sea  of  £1-Karkar,  where  dwell  some 
of  the  descendants  of  Noah,  whose  country  the  deluge 
did  not  reach.  They  are  separated  from  the  rest,  of  the 
sons  of  Adam."  **And  where,**  said  Abdes-Samad,  **is 
the  way  to  the  City  of  Brass,  and  the  place  in  which 
are  the  bottles  t  What  distance  iis  there  between  us  and 
it?'*    The  genie  aiiswered,  "It  is  near." 

The  party  then  proceeded  in  their  journey,  and  in  a 
little  while  they  saw  in  the  distance  a  great  black  ob- 
ject, and  in  it  there  seemed  to  be  two  fires  correspond- 
ing with  each  other  in  position-  "What. is  this  great 
black  object,"  ashed  the  Emeer  Moosa,  "and  what  are 
these  two  corresponding '  fires f "  "Be  rejoiced,  O 
Emeer,"  answered  Abdes-Samad;  "it  is  the  City  of 
Brass,  and  this  is  the  appeiarance  of  it  that  I  find  de- 
scribed in  the  boiok  of.  hidden  treasures^-^lhat  its  wall 
is  of  black  stones  and  it  has  two  towers  of  brass,  which 
resemble  two  corresponding  fires;  hence  it  is  named  the 
City  of  Brass.  V 

Hastening  on  they  arrived  at  the  city,  and  they 
found  that  it  was  strongly  fortified,  and  that  its  build- 
ings were  lofty,  rising  high  into  the  air*    Its  walls  were 


138  TYPES  OP  PB06E  NABRATIYES  . 

one  hundred  and  twenty  feet  hi|^,  and  it  had  five  and 
twenty  gates.  They  stopped  before  the  walls  and  en- 
deavored to  find  one  of  the  gates,  but  they  eould  not. 
Then  Emeer  Moosa  said  to  Abdes^Samad,  '^I  do  not  see 
any  gate  to  this  city/'  Abdes-Samad  answered,  ^*l 
find  it  described  in  the  book  of  hidden  treasures  that  it 
has  five  and  twenty  gates,  and  that  none  of  them  may 
be  opened  but  from  within  the  eity/' 

Then  the  Emeer  Moosa  took  Talib  and  Abdes-Samad 
with  him,  and  they  ascended  a  mountain  which  was  close 
by.  And  looking  down  upon  the  city,  they  saw  it  was 
greater  and  more  beautiful  than  anything  they  had  ever 
beheld.  Its  palaces  were  lofty,  its  domes  were  shining; 
rivers  were  running  within  it,  and  there  were  delightful 
gardens  with  trees  bearing  ripe  fruit.  But  they  did  not 
see  a  human  being  within  its  walls.  It  was  empty,  still, 
without  a  voice,  or  a  cheering  inhabitant  but  the  owl 
hooting  in  its  gardens,  and  birds  skimming  in  cir<des  in 
its  areas,  and  the  raven  croaking  in  its  great  streets. 

After  coming  down  from  the  mountain  ihey  passed 
the  day  trying  to  devise  means  of  entering  the  city.  At 
last  it  occurred  to  them  to  make  a  ladder,  and  the  Emeer 
called  to  the  carpenters  and  blacksmiths  and  ordered 
them  to  construct  a  ladder  covered  with  plates  of  iron. 
This  work  occupied  a  month,  and  when  it  was  finished, 
the  ladder  was  set  up  against  the  wall,  and  one  of  the 
party  ascended  it.  When  he  readied  the  top  he  stood, 
and,  fixing  his  eyes  towards  the  city,  clapped  his  hands 
and  cried  out  with  a  loud  voice,  **Thou  art  beautiful!" 
Then  he  cast  himself  down  into  the  city  and  was  killed. 
Seeing  this  the  Emeer  Moosa  said,  **If  we  do  this  with 
all  our  companions,  there  will  not  remain  one  of  them, 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GROUP  139 

and  we  shall  be  unable  to  accomplish  the  wish  of  the 
Prince  of  the  Faithful.  Let  us  depart  and  have  no  more 
to  do  with  this  city/'  But  one  of  them  answered,  ''Per- 
haps another  may  be  more  steady  than  he.-'  Then  a 
second  ascended,  and  he  did  the  same  as  the  first,  and 
then  a  third,  and  a  fourth,  and  a  fifth,  and  they  con- 
tinued to  ascend  by  that  ladder  to  the  top  of  the  wall, 
one  after  another,  until  twelve  men  of  them  had  gone, 
acting  as  the  first  had  acted. 

Abdes-Samad  now  arose  and  said,  ''There  is  none 
can  do  this  but  myself  So  he  ascended  the  ladder,  re- 
citing verses  of  the  Koran  until  he  reached  the  top,  when 
he  clapped  his  hands  and  fixed  his  eyes.  The  people 
therefore  called  out  to  him,  "O  Abdes-Samad,  do  not 
cast  thyself  down.  If  you  fall,  we  all  perish.''  Then 
Abdes-Samad  sat  down  upon  the  wall  for.  a  long  time, 
reciting  verses  of  the  Koran,  after  which  he  rose  and 
cried  out,  "0  Emeer^  no  harm  shall  happen  to  you,  for 
God  has  averted  from  me  the  effect  of  the  artifice  and 
fraud  of  the  Evil  One.'*  The  Emeer  then  said  to  him, 
"What  hast  thou  seen,  0  Abdes-Samad T'  He  answered, 
"When  T  reached  the  top  of  the  wall,  I  saw  ten  damsels, 
beautiful  to  behold,  who  m^de  a  sign  to  me  with  their 
hands  as  though  they  would  say,  'Come  to  us.'  And  it 
seemed  to  me  that  beneath  me  was  a  sea,  or  great  river, 
and  I  desired  to  cast  myself  down  as  our  companions  did. 
But  I  saw  them  dead,  and  I  recited  some  words  of  the 
Koran,  and  so  I  cast  not  myself  down.  Therefore  the 
damsels  departed.  There  is  no  doubt  that  this  is  an  en- 
chantment contrived  by  the  inhabitants  of  the  city  to 
keep  every  one  from  entering  it." 

Abdes-Samad  then  walked  along  the  wall  till  he  came 


140  TYPES  OF  PEOSE  NAERATIVES 

to  the  two  towers  of  brass,  when  he  saw  that  they  had 
two  gates  of  gold,  without  locks  upon  them,  or  any 
sign  of  the  means  of  opening  them.  He  remained  look- 
ing at  them  a  long  time,  and  at  last  he  saw  in  the 
middle  of  one  of  the  gates  a  figure  of  a  horseman  of 
brass,  having  one  hand  stretched  out  as  though  he  were 
pointing  with  it,  and  on  the  hand  these  words  were  in- 
scribed : 

*^Tum  the  pin  that  is  in  the  middle  of  the 
front  of  the  horseman's  body  twelve  times,  and 
then  the  gate  will  open," 

Abdes-Samad,  having  read  this  inscription,  examined 
the  horseman,  and  found  in  the  middle  of  the  front  of 
this  body  a  pin,  strong,  firm,  and  well  fixed.  He  turned 
it  twelve  times,  and  immediately  the  gate  opened  with  a 
noise  like  thunder.  Abdes-Samad  entered,  and  he  walked 
on  until  he  came  to  stairs,  which  he  descended.  At  the 
foot  of  the  stairs  he  found  a  place  with  handsome  wooden 
benches  on  which  there  were  dead  people,  and  over  their 
heads  were  shields,  and  swords,  and  bows,  and  arrows. 
One  of  the  dead  men,  who'  appeared  to  be  the  oldest, 
was  upon  a  high  bench  above  the  rest.  Abdes-Samad 
thought  that  the  keys  of  the  city  might  be  with  this 
man.  ** Perhaps,''  said  he  to  himself,  **he  was  the  gate- 
keeper, and  these  were  under  his  authority."  He  there- 
fore went  up  to  the  man,  and  raised  his  outer  garment, 
and  he  found  the  keys  hung  to  his  waist.  At  the  sight 
of  them  Abdes-Samad  rejoiced  exceedingly,  and  he  took 
the  keys  and  approached  the  gate  in  the  wall  of  the 
city.    He  found  that  the  keys  fitted  the  locks,  so  he 


THE  INGENIOUS- ASTONISHING  GROUP  141 

turned  them,  and  pulled  the  gate,  which  opened  with  a 
great  noise.  Then  he  cried  out  with  a  cry  of  joy,  and 
the  Emeer  Moosa  rejoiced  at  the  safety  of  Abdes-Samad, 
and  the  opening  of  the  gate  of  the  city.  The  people 
thanked  Abdes-Samad  for  what  he  had  done,  and  they 
all  hastened  to  enter  the  gate*  But  the  Emeer  Moosa 
cried  out  to  them,  saying,  **0  people,  some  accident  may 
happen,  and  if  all  enter,  all  may  perish.  Therefore,  let 
half  of  us  enter  and  half  remain  outside." 

The  Emeer  Moosa  then  entered  the  gate,  and  with 
him  half  of  his  troops,  carrying  their  weapons  of  ^ar. 
They  saw  their  companions  lying  dead,  and  they  buried 
them.  They  then  entered  the  market  of  the  city,  which 
contained  a  number  of  lofty  buildings.  The  shops  were 
open,  the  scales  hung  up,  and  the  stores  full  of  all 
kinds  of  goods,  but  the  merchants  were  all  dead.  They 
passed  on  to  the  silk  market,  in  which  were  silks  and 
brocades  interwoven  with  gold  and  silver  upon  various 
colors,  and  the  owners  were  dead,  lying  upon  skins,  and 
appearing  almost  as  though  they  would  speak.  Leav- 
ing these  th^y  went  on  to  the  market  of  the  money 
changers,  all  of  whom  they  found  dead,  with  varieties 
of  silks  beneath  them,  and  their  shops  filled  with  gold 
and  silver.  After  going  through  several  other  markets 
they  came  to  a  lofty  palace,  which  they  entered.  There 
they  found  banners  unfurled,  and  swords,  and  bows, 
and  shields  hung  up  by  chains  of  gold  and  silver.  In 
the  passages  of  the  palace  were  benches  of  ivory,  orna- 
mented with  plates  of  brilliant  gold  and  with  silk,  on 
which  were  dead  men,  whose  skins  had  dried  upon 
their  bones.  Going  into  the  interior  of  the  palace  they 
came  to  a  great  hall,  and  four  large  and  lofty  cham- 


142  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

bers,  each  one  fronting  another,  and  decorated  with  gold 
and  silver  and  various  colors.  In  the  midst  of  the  hall 
was  a  great  fountain  of  alabaster,  over  which  was  a 
canopy  of  brocade,  and  in  the  chambers  were  decorated 
fountains,  and  tanks  lined  with  marWe,  and  channels 
of  water  flowed  along  the  floors,  the  four  streams  meet- 
ing together  in  a  great  tank  made  of  colored  marjjles. 

The  Emeer  Moosa  and  his  companions  now  entered 
the  first  chamber,  and  they  found  it  filled  with  gold 
and  silver,  and  pearls  and  jewels,  and  jacinths  and  pre- 
cious minerals.  They  found  in  it  chests  full  of  red  and 
yellow  ahd  white  brocades.  They  then  went  into  the 
second  chamber,  and  opened  a  closet  in  it,  and  it  was 
filled  with  weapons  of  war,  consisting  of  gilded  helmets, 
and  coats  of  mail,  and  swords,  and  lances,  and  other  in- 
struments of  war  and  battle.  Then  they  passed  to  the 
third  chamber,  in  which  they  found  closets  having  upon 
their  doors  closed  locks,  and  over  them  were  curtains 
worked  with  various  kinds  of  embroidery.  They  op^ied 
one  of  these  closets,  and  found  it  filled  with  weapons 
decorated  with  varieties  of  gold  and  silver  and  jewels. 
From  there  they  went  to  the  fourth  chamber,  and  it  was 
full  of  utensils  for  food  and  drink,  consisting  of  various 
vessels  of  gold  and  silver,  and  saucers  of  crystal,  and 
cups  set  with  brilliant  pearls,  and  cups  of  camelian. 
They  took  what  suited  them  of  these  things,  and  each 
of  the  soldiers  carried  off  what  he  could. 

Then  they  passed  on,  and  found  a  chamber  "Con- 
structed of  polished  marble  adorned  with  jewels.  They 
thought  that  upon  the  floor  was  running  water,  and  if 
any  one  walked  upon  it  he  would  slip.  The  Emeer 
Moosa  therefore  ordered  Abdes-Samad  to  throw  upon  it 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GHOUP  143 

something,  that  they  might  be  enabled  to  walk  on  it,  and 
he  did  so,  and  they  passed  on.  And  they  fomid  in  it  a 
great  dome  constructed  of  stones  gilt  with  red  gold.  The 
party  had  not  beheld  in  all  that  they  had  seen  anything 
more  beautiful  than  this.  In  the  midst  of  it  there  iKras  a 
great  dome-crowned  structure  of  alabaster,  around  which 
were  lattice  windows,  decorated  and  adorned  with  ob- 
long emeralds.  In  it  was  a  pavilion  of  brocade,  raised 
upon  columns  of  red  gold,  and  within  this  were  birds, 
the  feet  of  whieh  were  emeralds.  Beneath  each  bird 
was  a  net  of  brilliant  pearls,  flq[Mre|id  over  a  fountain, 
and  by  the  brink  of  the  fountain  was  placed  a  eouch 
adorned  with  pearls  and  jewels  and  jaoinths,  on  which 
sat  a  damsel  resembling  the  shining  sun.  Eyes  had  not 
beheld  one  more  beautiful.  She  wore  a  garment- of  bril- 
liant pearls,  on  her  head  was  a  crown  of  red  gold,  on  her 
neck  was  a  neeUace  of  jewels,  and  upon  her  forehead 
were  two  jewels  the  light  of  which  was  like  that  of  the 
sun.  She  seemed  as  though  she  weite  looking  at  the  peo- 
ple round  about  her,  and  observing  them  to  the  right 
and  left. 

When  the  Emeer  Moosa  beheld  this  damsel,  he  won- 
dered extremely  at  her  lovdiiness,  and  he  saluted  her 
respectfully.  But  Talib  said  to  the  Emeer,  ^*This  dam- 
sel is  dead.  There  is  no  life  in  her.  How,  then,  can  she 
return  the  salutation?"  And  he  added,  **0  Emeer, 
she  is  skillfully  embalmed.  Her  eyes  were  taken  out 
after  her  death,  and  quicksilver  put  beneath  them,  after 
which  they  were  restored  to  their  places;  so  they  gleam, 
and  wheneveif  the  air  puts  them  in  motion  the  beholder 
imagines  that  she  twinkles  her  eyes,  though  she  is 
dead"    Then  they  saw  that  the  couch  upon  which  the 


144  TYPES  OP  PitOSE  NARRATIVES 

damsel  sat  had  steps,  and  upon  the  steps  ^ere  two  slaves, 
one  of  them  white  and  the  other  black.  In  the  hand  of 
one  o£  them>  was  a  weapon  of  steel,  and  in  the  hand  of  the 
other  a  jeweled  sword  that  dazzled  the  eyes.  Before 
the  two  slaves  was  a  tablet  of  gold  on  which  was  the 
following  inscription : 

**0  thou,  if  thou  know  me  not,  I  will  ac- 
quaint tiiee  with  my  name  apd  descent.  I  am 
Tedmur,  the  daughter  of  the  King  of  the 
Amalekites^  I  poai^ssed  what  none  of  the  kings 
possessed,  and  ruled  with  justice.  I  gave  and 
bestowed,  and  lived  a  kiug^  tim^in  the  enjoy- 
ment of  happiness  and  an  easy  life»  and  emanci- 
pated female,  and  male  slaves.  Thus  I  did  un- 
til death  came  to  my  abode,  and  the  case  was 
this :  Seven  years  in  succession  came  upon  us, 
during  which  no  Water  deejcelided  on  us  from 
heaven,  nor  did  any  grass  grow  .for  us  on  the 
face  of  the  earth.  So  we  ate  what  food  we.  had 
in  our  dwellings,  and  after  that  we  fell  upon  the 
beasts  -and  ate  theka,  and  thei'e  remained  noth- 
ing. Upon  this  I  causM  the  wealth  to  be 
brought,  and  measured  it  with  a  measure,  and 
sent  it  by  trtisty  men,  who  went  about  with  it 
through  all  the  dititriotis,  not  leaving  unvisited 
a  single  large  city,  t6  seek  for  some  food.  But 
they  found  none,  and  they  returned  to  us  with 
the  wealth,  after  a  long  absence.  Then  we  ex- 
posed to  view  our  rkhes  an«t  our  treasures, 
locked  the  gates  of  the  fortresses  in  oiir  city, 
and  we  all  died>  as  thou  beholdest  and  left  what 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GROUP  145 

we  had  btiilt  and  what  we  had  treasured.  This 
is  our  story.  Whoever  arrives  at  our  city,  and 
enters  it,  let  him  take  of  the  wealth  what  he 
can,  but  not  touch  anything  that  is  on  my  body, 
for  it  is  the  covering  of  my  person,  and  the  at- 
tire with  which  I  am  fitted  forth  from  the 
world.  Therefore,  let  him  not  seiie  aught  of 
it;  for  he  would  destroy  himself:'' 

The  Emeer  Moosa^  when  he  read  these  wqrda,  waff, 
greatly  astonished.  Then  he  said  to  hia  companions, 
**  Bring  the  sacks,  and  fill  them  with  part  of  these  riches 
and  these  vessels  and  rarities  5and  jewels."  But  Talib 
said  to  him,  "0  Emeer,  shall  we  leave  this  damsel  with 
the  things  that  are  upon  her?  They  are  things  that 
have  no  equal,  and  they  are  more  than  the  riehes  thou 
hast  taken,  and  will  be  the  best  present  for  the  Prince 
of  the  Faithful."  But  the  Emeer  replied,  ''Seest  thou, 
not  that  which  the  damsel  hath  given  as  a  charge,  in  the 
inscription  upon  this  tablet?"  Talib j  however,  said, 
**  And  on  account  of  these  words  wilt  thou  leave  these 
riches  and  these  jewels,  when  she  is  dead?  What  then 
should  she  do  with  these  things>  which  are  the  ornaments 
of  the  world,  and  the  decoration  of  the  living?  With  a 
garment  of  cotton  this  damsel  might  be  covered,  and 
we  are  more  worthy  of  the  things  than  she."  Then  he 
drew  near  to  the  steps, .  and  ascended  them  until  he 
reached  the  Spot  between  the  two  slaves,  when  suddenly 
one  of  them  smote  him  upon  his  back  and  the  other  smote 
him  with  the  sword  that  was  in  his  hand,  and' struck  oflE 
his  head,  and  he  fell  down  dead.  Seeing  this  the  people' 
were  miieh  terrified,  and  the  Emeer  Moosa  commanded- 


146  TYPES  or  PB08E  NARRATITSS 

them  to  leave  the  city  and  close  the  gate  as  it  was 
before. 

They  then  proceeded  on  until  thej  came  in  sight 
of  a  hi|^  monntain  overhxddng  the  sea.  In  it  were 
many  eaves  in  which  was  a  people  of  black,  clad  in  hides, 
whose  language  was  not  known.  And  when  the  blacks 
saw  the  tnwps  they  ran  away  from  them,  while  their 
women  and  children  stood  at  the  entrance  of-  the  cave. 
So  the  Emeer  Moosa  said,  '^O  Abdes-Samad,  what  are 
these  peoplet"  And  he  answered^  '^These  are  the  ob- 
jects of  the  inquiry  of  the  Prince  of  the  Faithful." 
They  therefore  alighted  and  the  tents  were  pitched  and 
they  had  not  rested  when  the  king  of  the  blacks  came 
down  from  the  mountain,  and  drew  near  to  the  troops. 
He  was  acquainted  with  the  Arabic  language,  and  when 
he  came  to  Emeer  Moosa  he  saluted  him,  and  the  Emeer 
returned  his  salute  and  treated  him  with  honor.  Then 
the  king  of  the  blacks  said  to  the  Emeer,  ''Are  ye  of 
mankind,  or  of  the  geniesT'  The  Emeer  answered, 
'*We  are  of  mankind,  but  as  to  you,  there  is  no  doubt 
that  ye  are  of  the  genies,  because  of  the  greatness  of  your 
size."  But  the  king  of  the  blacks  replied,  **Nay,  we 
are  a  people  of  the  race  of  Adam,  of  the  sons  of  Ham, 
the  son  of  Noah.  And  this  sea  is  known  by  the  name  of 
El-Karkar." 

The  Emeer  then  said  to  him,  ''We  are  the  messen- 
gers and  servants  of  the  CSaMph  Abdel-Melih,  and  we 
have  come  on  account  of  the  bottles  of  brass  that  are  here 
in  your  sea,  in  whidi  are  the  genies  imprisoned  from 
the  time  of  Solomon,  the  son  of  David.  He  hath  com- 
manded us  to  bring  him  some  of  themi,  that  he  may  see 
them.    Wilt  thou  help  us  in  this  matter?"    The  king  of 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GROUP  147 

the  blacks  replied,  '*Most  willingly."  Then  he  ordered 
the  divers  to  bring  tip  from  the  sea  some  of  the  bottles 
of  Solomon,  and  they  brought  up  twelve  bottles,  which 
the  king  gave  to  the  Emeer.  The  Emeer  Moosa  was  de* 
lighted,  and  Abdes-Samad  also,  and  the  soldiers,  on  ac- 
count of  the  accomplishment  of  the  wish  of  the  Prince  of 
the  Faithful.  The  Emeer  then  presented  to  the  king  of 
the  blacks  many  gifts. 

Then  they  bade  him  farewell,  and  they  journeyed 
back  until  they  came  to  the  land  of  Syria,  and  went  to 
the  palace  of  the  Prince  of  the  Faithful.  The  Emeer 
Moosa  told  him  of  all  that  he  had  seen,  and  of  the  case 
of  Talib.  And  the  Prince  of  the  Faithful  said  to  him, 
'*  Would  that  I  had  been  with  you  that  I  might  have 
beheld  what  ye  beheld."  He  then  took  the  bottles,  and 
proceeded  to  open  one  after  another,  and  the  genies 
came  forth  from  them  saying,  "Repentance !  O  Prophet 
of  God!  We  will  not  return  to  the  like  conduct  ^ver." 
After  this  the  Prince  of  the  Faithful  caused  the  riches 
to  be  brought  before  him,  and  divided  them  among  the 
people. 

This  is  the  end  of  that  which  hath  come  down  to  ub 
of  the  history  of  the  City  of  Brass. 

'' Stories  from  the  Arabian  Nights."    Selected  and  edited  by 
M.  Clarke.     (American  Book  Company.) 

The  Magic  Bing,  the  Bird,   and  the  Basket 

The  night  was  clear  and  cool  when  Juan  and  his 
father  went  to  bed.  Soon  they  fell  asleep,  lulled  by  the 
wind  whistling  among  the  trees.  When  midnight  came, 
they  were  aroused  from  their  sound  sleep  by  the  shout- 
ing of  men, and  the  roaring  of  fire.    Juan  and  his  father 


148  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

jumped  out  of  the  house  to  save  themselves.  As  they 
were  hiding  under  a  bamboo  tree,  four  men  came  and 
tied  the  hands  of  the  father  and  son  with  vines.  Juan 
was  strong  enough  to  break  the  vines,  but  he  did  not  try 
to,  for  fear  that  the  robbers  would  kill  them.  The  four 
men  carried  the  poor  captives  to  their  boat  and  sailed 
away.  Many  of  Juan's  friends  and  relatives  were  also 
captured. 

As  they  were  sailing  southward  a  terrible  storm  came. 
All  the  boats  were  sunk  by  the  merciless  waves.  Before 
J  uan  reached  the  bottom,  for  he  could  not  swim,  a  very 
big  shark  swallowed  him.  The  shark,  after  swallowing 
Juan,  went  to  its  home  in  a  big  cave  under  the  water. 
While  he  was  kicking  in  the  stomach  of  the  shark,  his 
knife  fell  from  his  pocket  and  the  vines  with  which  his 
hands  were  tied,  broke.  He  opened  his  knife  with  his 
hands  and  teeth,  and  cut  a  hole  through  the  stomach  of 
the  shd^rk.  Instead  of  floating  to  the  surface  of  the  wa- 
ter, Juan  began  to  sink  and  sink  as  if  something  were 
pulling  him  downward.  At  last  he  came  to  a  dry  place. 
He  met  nobody  there  except  a  gray-bearded  man,  who 
asked  him  where  he  was  going.    Juan  told  his  story. 

*'You  are  unfortunate,  my  boy,"  said  the  old  man, 
''you  will  have  a  very  hard  time  in  reaching  your 
home." 

'*But  how  may  I  reach  home  again?"  said  Juan. 

The  old  man  told  him  to  climb  the  high  mountain 
which  could  be  seen  from  where  they  were  standing. 
'*When  you  reach  the  top,  jump  into  the  hole  and  you 
will  be  thrown  up  to  the  other  world."  When  Juan  was 
about  to  go,  the  old  man  gave  him  a  ring.  *'This  ring,'" 
he  said,  '*is  powerful.    You  can  conquer  the  fiercest  de- 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GKOUP  149 

mon  on  earth  with  the  help  of  this  ring.    Ask  from  it 
anything,  food,  clothes,  and  other  things,  and  you  will 
have  what  yon  want.    If  you  want  to  go  to  some  place, ' 
you  can  reach  it  in  a  second.    This  ring  will  carry  you 
to  the  top  of  the  mountain." 

When  the  old  man  was  through  giving  the  instruct 
tions,  Juan  found  himself  on  the  top  of  the  mountain. 
Then  he  jumped  into  the  hole.  Suddenly  he  was  blown 
up  through  the  water  and  up  in  the  air.  He  fell  back 
on  the  water.  He  wished  he  were  on  land  and  instantly 
he  was  carried  to  a  small  village  full  of  savages.  Juan 
performed  many  miracles  for  the  savages,  so  they  elected 
him  king. 

One  day  they  went  hunting  and  soon  they  caught  a 
deer.  While  they  were  taking  off  the  hide,  a  big  bird 
swooped  and  took  the  deer  with  it.  Juan  clung  to  the 
horns  of  the  deer  trying  to  take  it  from  the  bird,  but  in 
vain.  The  bird  did  not  mind  Juan  for  he  was  very 
small  compared  with  it.  It  alighted  on  a  very  high  cliff, 
left  Juan  and  the  dead  deer  there,  and  flew  away.  On 
the  cliff  was  the  bird's  nest,  and  in  it  were  three  dia- 
mond-like round  eggs  which  were  about  three  feet  in 
diameter. 

Juan  asked  him  magical  ring  to  give  him  a  very  big 
basket.  The  basket  came.  Then  he  rolled  the  eggs  into 
the  backket.  Juan  seated  himself  between  the  eggs  .'and 
asked  his  ring  again  to  take  him  and.  the  basket  home. 
The  basket  was  so  heavy  that  the  ring  could  not  make 
it  fly  very  fast.  While  they  were  sailing  in  the  air,  the 
bird  came  with  its  mate.  They  held  the  handle  of  the 
basket  with  their  beaks  and  carried  the  basket  back  to 
the  cliff.    The  power  of  the  magical  ring  was  helpless 


160  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NABBATIVES 

because  the  birds  were  very  strong.  Juan,  then,  wished 
to  be  clad  in  armor.  So  said,  so  done.  But  he  had  no 
sword,  so  he  asked  the  ring  to  give  him  one.  When  the 
birds  reached  the  cliflf,  they  alighted.  Juan  stepped  from 
the  basket  and  drew  his  sword.  Whenever  the  birds 
pecked  him,  he  would  strike  them  on  their  necks  with 
his  sword.  After  fighting  with  him  for  more  than  half 
a  day,  the  birds  fell  helpless  on  the  rock. 

Then  the  victor,  Juan,  asked  the  ring  again  to  take 
him  and  the  basket  to  his  old  home.  When  he  reached 
the  place,  the  once  flourishing  village  was  gone.  Only 
a  few  huts  were  left  standing.    — ^Facundo  Esquivel. 

II.    The  Imaginary  Voyage  with  a  Satiric  or  Instruc- 
tive Purpose 

To  the  class  of  marvelous  tales  belong  also  what 
are  known  in  France  as  **  Voyages  Imaginaires. "  In 
so  far  as  the  adventurers  meet  with  super-extraordi- 
nary beings,  or  ride  on  fleas  of  the  dimensions  of 
elephants,  or  have  monstrous  spiders  weave  for  a  field 
of  battle  a  web  between  the  moon  and  the  morning 
star,  or  in  so  far  as  they  sail  on  seas  of  milk  to  islands 
of  cheese  and  altogether  suspend  the  semblance  of  pos- 
sibility— ^in  so  far  are  they  heroes  of  absurd  tales  of 
wonder.  But  the  narrators  of  the  stories  of  imaginary 
voyages  for  the  most  part  had  primarily  other  objects 
than  mere  amusement  in  view ;  namely,  ridicule  of  the 
extravagant  narrative  by  means  of  imitation  and 
exaggeration,  or  ridicule  of  political  and  philosophic 
tenets  by  absurd  application;  or  the  story-tellers  had 
instruction  to  give  in  civic  and  social  theories  by  pre- 
senting the  ideal  in  contrast  with  the  real. 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GBOUP  151 

The  first  example  and  perhaps  the  source  of  this 
whole  species  of  narrative  is  the  **True  History"  of 
Lucian,  which  is  professedly  fabulous  and  sonrceof 
satiric.  Lucian  says  that  by  his  seas  of  milk  tlwtype 
and  islands  of  cheese  and  the  like,  he  is  ridiculing  the 
extravagant  relations  of  the  old  poets  and  historians 
who  tell  incredible  tales.  Hundreds  of  years  after 
liueian,  Marco  Polo  and  Sir  John  Mandeville  by  their 
marvelous  accounts  of  remote  countries  set  themselves 
in  the  class  Lucian  satirized.  But  we  wiU  take  them 
up  later,  since  they  were  real  travellers  simply  exag- 
gerating what  they  had  seen  in  order  the  more  surely 
to  please  a  perverted  historical  taste.  We  are  dealing 
now  with  acknowledged  imagination.  There  are  many 
famous  imaginary  voyages  professedly  satiric  besides 
Lucian 's.  Savinien  Cyrano  de  Bergerac's  '*  History  of 
the  States  and  Empires  of  the  Moon"  is  a  satire  on  the 
pedantry  and  scholastic  disputations  of  his  age,  the 
early  seventeenth  century,  concerning  the  uninhabit- 
ableness  of  the  lunar  world.  To  the  moon  Bergerac 
makes  an  excursion  and  settles  matters  for  himself. 
**Niel  Klim's  Underground  Journey,"  by  Ludvig 
Holberg  of  Denmark,  is  another  famous  imaginary 
trip. 

But  no  nation  has  surpassed  England,  and  none 
indeed  has  evein  equalled  her,  in  the  production  of  this 
class  of  stories.  **  Gulliver's  Travels,"  Swift  and 
**Gaudentio  de  Lucca,"  and  ''Robinson  Defoe 
Crusoe"  are  supreme.  Swift's  marvelous  tale  is,  of 
course,  satire;  Berkley's  extravagant  one,  philosophy 
and  polemic;  Defoe's  seemingly  true  narration,  re- 
ligious dissent.    But  in  the  minds  of  the  critics— and 


152  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARBATIVES 

in  the  mind  of  every  school  boy,  I  suppose-^ — ^there  is 
the  judgment  that  Defoe  succeeded  in  irriting  the  best 
pure  ''story"  story  in  all  the  world.  On  the  one  hand, 
accordingly,  by  its  content  of  a  sea  voyage  and  a  wreck 
on  an  unknown  shore  and  by  the  controversial  purpose 
of  its  author,  and  by  the  fact  that  it  became  the  pro- 
genitor of  a  long  line  of  marvelous  narratives,  the 
story  of  ** Robinson  Crusoe''  links  itself  with  the 
species  of  imaginary  voyages  and  stands  forth  as  the 
highest,  though  because  of  its  virtues  not  the  most 
representative,  attainment  of  the  class*  On  the  other 
hand,  ''Robinson  Crusoe''  by  its  iinaflfccted  simplicity 
of  diction,  by  its  many  minute  circumstances,  by  its 
particularity  as  to  persons,  places,  dates,  and  refer- 
ences, stands  at  the  head  as  the  greatest  and  best 
representative  of  another  tjrp^  of  narratives, — ^the 
story  of  probable  adventures.  Btit  one  would  finally 
class  Defoe's  story  with  realistic  romance. 

More  typical  of  the  present  species,  because  more 
extravagant  and  not  so  seemingly  actual,  is  the  some- 
what charming  though  long-forgotten  story  of  the 
'^Voyage  of  Peter  Wilkins,''  written  about  1750  by  R. 
Paltock  or  Pultock.  In  this  narrative  the  author 
created  a  new  species  of  beings,  which  have  been 
ranked  among  the  most  beautiful  offsprings  of  imagi- 
nation. In  the  "Curse  of  Kehama"  Southey  acknowl- 
edged them  as  the  origin  of  the  Glendoveers, 

**  The  loveliest  race  of  all  of  heavenly  birth, 
Hovering  with  gentle  motion  o'er  the  earth, 

Amid  the  moonlight  air. 
In  sportive  flight,  still  floating  round  and  round/* 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GBOUP  153 

In  Paltock's  story  they  are  not  fairies,  but  &ymg 
men  and  women. 

In  imitation  of  Bergerac  's  voyage  to  the  moon  there 
appeared  descriptions  of  joui^eys  to  the  variow 
heavenly  bodies.  The  planet  Venns,  for  instance, 
aflEorded  opportunity  for  satire. on  amatory  tendencies; 
Mercury,  on  fraud  and  avarice ;  and  so  on  through  the 
other  planets  and  vices*  Ridicule  of  the  predominant 
passions  of  individuals  was  come  at  also.  The  arrant 
boaster  is  delectably  set  forth  in  the  ''Adventures  of 
iBaron  Munchausen  J' 

To  narrate  an  imagiaary  voyage,  therefore,  on  lines 
laid  down  in  the  past,  you  must  take  to  yourself  to 
begin  with .  either  a  political  and  social  theory  or/  a 
general- spirit  of  ridicule,  either  an  instructive  or  a 
corrective  temper. 

If  you  take  a  political  and  social  theory  to  establish 
you  must  show  it  in  operation  in  a  realm  where  there 
is  perfect  and  ideal  wisdom,  where  the  obstacles  in  the 
world  do  not  hold,  as  they  do  not  in  the  Happy  Valley, 
Utopia,  and  the  New  Atlantis. 

If  you  undertake  to  ridicule  present  mistaken  ten- 
dencies and  follies^  your  task  will  be  a  little  harder. 
First  you  must  work  out.  your  argument 
somewhat  in  detail  before  you  begin  your  on  how  to 
voyage,  since  you  will  need  to  fit  adven-  "^^^^ 
tures,  objects,  people,  and  speeches,  eitheir  imagtnary 
by  way  of  exaggeration  or  oppositeness,  to  voyage 
their    modern    counterparts.      Next,     you 
should  have  definitely  in  mind  a  few  prominent  leaders 
in  the  movement  or  a  few  promoters  of  the  policy  yoU 
mean  to  laugh  at.     You  may  take  the  portrait  and 


154  TYPES  OF  PieOSE  NAKEATIVES 

characteristics  of  these  men  as  basis,  and  exaggerate 
and  modify  to  suit  your  purpose.  Just  as  a  good  car- 
toonist must  know  anatomy  and  ihe  rules  of  correct 
drawing,  so  a  caricaturist  and  satirist  must  know  real 
people.  It  will  happen  probably  that  readers  not  in 
the  secret  of  your  originals  will  fail  to  recognize  them 
surely,  as  people  now  fail  to  recognize  de  Bergerac's 
and  Swift's;  yet  your  story  can  not  bat  be  the  livelier 
and  better  for  your  concrete  thinking.  And  as  we  now 
read  the  * 'Journey  to  the  Moon"  and  ''OuUiver's 
Travels"  for  the  amusing  adventures,  so  your  audience 
will  enjoy  your  story  for  the  same  reason  and  no  other. 
But  you  can  hardly  create  amusing  adventures  without 
something  to  create  them  of,  and  the  lives  of  real 
people  are  to  be  the  stuff.  This  suggestion  is  merely 
the  embodiment  of  the  psychological  fact  that  all  the 
chimeras  that  man  ever  thought  of :  are  but  modifica- 
tions of  real  images.  Then  it  will  be  well  also  to 
remember  the  convenien<3e  of  allegory  and  to  use  it 
upon  occasion.  In  fact;  many  imaginary  voyaged  are 
but  rough-and-ready  allegories.  Yet  you  must  be  care- 
ful not  to  over-do  the  allegory ;  for  in  the  fourth  place, 
you  should  strive  for  minute  versimilitude.  The  nearer 
like  the  details  of  a  real  journey  your  small  incidents 
are^  the  better  your  readers  will  be  pleased  with  your 
large  incidents.  It  is  the  little  surprises  of  familiarity 
among  strangeness  that  create  the  emotion  of  pleasure. 
Last  of  all,  and  first  of  all,  and  altogether  requisite 
is  this  vitttie :  To  be  a  good  narrator  of  imaginary 
voyages,  you  must  be,  like  Defoe,  the  ''best  of  liars." 
Nothing  is  too  stupendous  to  tell  if  you  only  know 
how  to  tell  it. 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GROUP  155 

Mellonta  Tauta 

On  Board  BaUoon  ' '  Skylark, ' ' 
April  1,  2848. 

Now,  my  dear  friend — ^now,  for  your  sins,  you  are  to 
suffer  the  infliction  of  a  long  gossiping  letter.  I  tell  you 
distinctly  that  I  am  going  to  punish  you  for  all  your  im- 
pertinences by  being  as  tedious,  as  discursive,  as  inco- 
herent, and  as  unsatisfactory  as  possible.  Besides,  here 
I  am,  cooped  up  in  a  dirty  balloon,  with  some  one  or  two 
hundred  of  the  canaille,  all  bound  on  a  pleasure  excur- 
sion (what  a  funny  idea  some  people  have  of  pleasure!), 
and  I  have  no  prospect  of  touching  terra  firma  for  a 
nionth  at  least.  Nobody  to  talk  to.  Nothing  to  do. 
When  one  has  nothing  to  do,  then  is  the  time  to  cor- 
respond with  one's  friends.  You  perceive  then,  why  it  is 
that  I  write  you  this  letter — ^it  is  on  account  of  my  ennui 
and  your  sins. 

Get  ready  your  spectacles  and  make  up  your  mind  to 
be  annoyed.  I  mean  to  write  at  you  every  day  during 
this  odious  voyage. 

Heigho!  when  will  any  Invention  visit  the  human 
pericranium  ?  Are  we  forever  to  be  doomed  to  the  thou- 
sand inconveniences  of  the  balloon?  Will  nobody  con- 
trive a  more  expeditious  mode  of  progress?  The  jog- 
trot movement,  to  my  thinking,  is  little  less  than  posi- 
tive torture.  Upon  my  word,  we  have  not  made  more 
than  a  hundred  miles  the  hour  since  leaving  home! 
The  very  birds  beat  us — at  least  some  of  them.  I  as- 
sure you  that  I  do  not  exaggerate  at  all.  Our  motion, 
no  doubt,  seems  slower  than  it  actually  is — ^this  on  ac- 
count of  our  having  no  objects  about  us  by  which  to  esti- 
mate our  velocity,  and  on  account  of  our  going  with  the 


1 

156  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NABBATIVES  I 

! 
wind.    To  be  sure,  whenever  we  meet  a  balloon  we  have  | 

a  chance  of  perceiving  our  rate,  and  then,  I  admit,  things  i 
do  not  appear  so  very  bad.  Accustomed  as  I  am  to  this 
mode  of  traveling,  I  cannot  get  over  a  kind  of  giddiness 
whenever  a  balloon  passes  us  in  a  current  directly  over- 
head. It  always  seems  to  me  like  an  immense  bird  of 
prey  about  to  pounce  upon  us  and  carry  us  off  in  its 
claws.  One  went  over  us  this  morning  about  sunrise, 
and  80  nearly  overhead  that  its  drag-rope  actually 
brushed  the  net-work  suspending  our  car,  and  caused  us 
very  serious  apprehension.  Our  captain  said  that  if  the 
material  of  the  bag  had  been  the  trumpery  varnished 
'^silk"  of  five  hundred  or  a  thousand  years  ago,  we 
should  inevitably  have  been  damaged.  This  silk,  as  he 
explained  it  to  me,  was  a  fabric  composed  of  the  en- 
trails of  a  species  of  earth-worm.  The  worm  was  care- 
fully fed  on  mulberries — a  kind  of  fruit  resembling  a 
water-melon — ^and,  when  sufficiently  fat,  was  crushed  in 
a  mill.  The  paste  thus  arising  was  called  papyrus  in  its 
primary  state,  and  went  through  a  variety  of  processes 
until  it  finally  became  **silk.''  Singular  to  relate,  it 
was  once  much  admired  as  an  article  of  female  dressi 
Balloons  were  also  very  generally  constructed  from  it. 
A  better  kind  of  material,  it  appears,  was  subsequently 
found  in  the  down  surrounding  the  seed-vessels  of  a  plant 
vulgarly  called  euphorbium,  and  at  that  time  botanieally 
termed  milk-weed.  This  latter  kind  of  silk  was  desig- 
nated as  silk-buckingham,  on  account  of  its  superior 
durability,  and  was  usually  prepared  far  use  by  being 
varnished  with  a  solution  of  gum  caoutchouc — ^a  sub- 
stance which  in  some  respects  must  have  resembled  the 
guttapercha  now  in  common  use.    This  caoutchouc  was 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  QBOUP  167 

occasionally  called  Indian  rubber  or  rubber  of  twist,  and 
was  no  doubt  one  of  the  numerous  fungi.  Never  tell 
me  again  that  I  am  not  at  heart  an  antiquarian. 

Talking  of  drag-ropes — our  own,  it  seems,  has  this 
moment  knocked  a  man  overboard  from  one  of  the  small 
magnetic  propellers  that  swarm  in  the  ocean  below  us — 
a  boat  of  about  six  thousand  tons,  and,  from  all  accounts, 
shamefully  crowded.  These  diminutive  barques  should 
be  prohibited  from  carrying  more  than  a  definite  num- 
ber of  passengers.  The  man,  of  course,  was  not  per- . 
mitted  to  get  on  board  again,  and  was  soon  out  of  sight, 
he  and  his  life-preserver.  I  rejoice,  my  dear  friend,  that 
we  live  in  an  age  so  enlightened  that  no  such  a  thing  as 
an  individual  is  supposed  to  exist.  It  is  the  mass  for 
which  the  true  Humanity  cares.  By-the-by,  talking  of 
Humanity,  do  you  know  that  our  immortal  Wiggins  is 
not  so  original  in  his  views  of  the  Social  Condition  and 
so  forth,  as  his  contemporaries  are  inclined  to  supposed 
Pundit  assures  me  that  the  same  ideas  were  put  nearly 
in  the  same  way,  about  a  thousand  years  ago,  by  an  Irish 
philosopher  called  Furrier,  on  account  of  his  keeping  a 
retail  shop  for  cat  peltries  and  other  furs.  Pundit 
knows,  you  know;  there  can  be  no  mistake  about  it.  How 
very  wonderfully  do  we  see  verified  every  day,  the  pro- 
found observation  of  the  Hindoo  Aries  Tottle  (as  quoted 
by  Pundit) :  **  Thus  must  we  say  that,  not  once  or  twice, 
or  a  few  times,  but  with  almost  infinite  repetitions,  the 
same  opinions  came  round  in  a  circle  among  men." 

April  2d, — Spoke  to-day  the  magnetic  cutter  in 
charge  of  the  middle  section  of  floating  telegraph  wires. 
I  learn  that  when  this  species  of  telegraph  was  first  put 
into  operation  by  Horse,  it  was  considered  quite  impos- 


158  TYPES  OF  PEQSE  NAEEATIVES 

sible  to  convey  the  wires  over  sea,  but  now  we  are  at  a 
loss  to  comprehend  where  the  diflSculty  lay  \  So  wags  the 
world.  Tempora  mutantur — excuse  me  for  quoting  the 
Etruscan.  What  would  we  do  without  the  Atlantic  tele- 
graph? (Pundit  says  Atlantic  was  the  ancient  adjec- 
tive.) We  lay  to  a  few  minutes  to  ask  the  cutter  some 
questions,  and  learned,  among  other  glorious  news,  that 
civil  war  is  raging  in  Africa,  while  the  plague  is  doing 
its  good  work  beautifully  both  in  Yurope  and  Ayesher. 
Is  it  not  truly  remarkable  that,  before  the  magnificent 
light  shed  upon  philosophy  by  Humanity,  the  world  was 
accustomed  to  regard  War  and  Pestilence  as  calamities? 
Do  you  know  that  prayers  were  actually  offered  up  in 
the  ancient  temples  to  the  end  that  these  evils  ( !)  might 
not  be  visited  upon  mankind  ?  Is  it  not  really  diflScult  to 
comprehend  upon  what  principle  of  interest  our  fore- 
fathers acted?  Were  they  so  blind  as  not  to  perceive 
that  the  destruction  of  a  myriad  of  individuals  is  only 
so  much  positive  advantage  to  the  mass  1 

April  3d. — It  is  really  a  very  fine  amusement  to  as- 
cend the  rope-ladder  leading  to  the  summit  of  the  bal- 
loon-bag, and  thence  survey  the  surrounding  world. 
From  the  car  below  you  know  the  prospect  is  not  so 
comprehensive — ^you  can  see  little  vertically.  But  seated 
here  (where  I  write  this)  in  the  luxuriously-cushioned 
opened  piazza  of  the  summit,  one  can  see  everything  that 
is  going  on  in  all  directions*  Just  now  there  is  quite  a 
crowd  of  balloons  in  sight,  and  they  present  a  very  ani- 
mated appearance,  while  the  air  is  resonant  with  the 
hum  of  so  many  millions  of  human  voices.  I  have  heard 
it  asserted  that  when  Yellow  or  (Pundit  will  have  it) 
Violet,  who  is  supposed  to  have  been  the  first  aeronaut, 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHINa  GBOUP  159 

maintained  the  practicability  of  traversing  the  atmos- 
phere in  all  directions,  by  merely  ascending  or  descend* 
ing  until  a  favorable  current  was  attained,  he  was 
scarcely  hearkened  to  at  all  by  his  contemporaries,  who 
looked  upon  him  as  merely  an  ingenious  sort  of  madman^ 
because  the  philosophers  (!)  of  the  day  declared  the 
thing  impossible.  Really  now,  it  does  seem  to  me  quite 
unaccountable  how  anything  so  obviously  feasible  could 
have  escaped  the  sagacity  of  the  ancient  savans.  But  in 
all  ages  the  great  obstacles  to  advanoement  in  Art  have 
been  opposed  by  the  so-called  men  of  science.  To  be 
sure,  our  men  of  science  are  not  quite  do  bigoted  as  those 
of  old — oh,  I  have  something  so  queer  to  tell  you  on  this 
topic.  Do  you  know  that  it  is  not  more  than  a  thousand 
years  ago  since  the  metaphysicians  consented  to  relieve 
the  people  of  the  singular  fancy  that  there  existed  hut 
two  possible  roads  for  the  attainment  of  Truth!  Believe 
it  if  you  can!  It  appears  that  long,  long  ago,  in  the 
night  of  Time,  there  lived  a  Turkisii  philosopher  (or 
Hindoo  possibly),  called  Aries  Tottle.  This  person  in- 
troduced or  at  all  events  propagated  what  was  termed 
the  deductive  or  a  priori  mode  of  investigation.  He 
started  with  what  he  maintained  to  be  axioms,  or  **  self- 
evident  truths,'*  and  thrice  proceeded  ''logically"  to 
results.  His  greatest  dii^ciples  were  one  Neuclid,  and  one 
Cant.  Well,  Aries  Tottle  flourished  supreme  until  the  . 
advent  of  one  Hog,  sumamed  the  ''Ettrick  Shepherd,'' 
who  preached  an  entirely  different  system,  which  he 
called  the  a  posteriori  or  inductive.  His  plan  referred 
altogether  to  Sensation.  He  proceeded  by  observing, 
analyzing,  and  classifying  facts — instantiae  naturae,  as 
they  were  affectedly  ealled^^into  general  laws,    Aries 


160  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NABBATIVE8 

Tottle's  mode,  in  a  word,  was  based  on  noumena;  Hog's 
on  phenomena.  Well,  so  great  was  the  admiration  ex- 
cited by  this  latter  i^stem  that,  at  its  first  introduction, 
Aries  Tottle  fell  into  disrepute ;  but  finally  he  recovered 
ground  and  was  permitted  to  divide  the  realm  of  Truth 
with  his  more  modem  rival.  The  savins  now  maintained 
the  Aristotelian  and  Baconian  roads  were  the  sole  possi- 
ble avenues  to  knowledge.  ** Baconian,"  you  must  know, 
Was  an  adjective  invented  as  equivalent  to  Hog-ian  and 
more  euphonious  and  dignified. 

Now,  my  dear  friend,  I  do  assure  you,  most  positively, 
that  I  represent  this  matter  fairly,  on  the  soundest  au- 
thority ;  and  you  can  easily  understand  how  a  notion  so 
absurd  on  its  very  face  must  have  operated  to  retard  the 
progress  of  all  true  knowledge — ^which  makes  its  ad- 
vances almost  invariably  by  intuitive  bounds.  The  an- 
cient idea  confined  investigations  to  crawling;  and  for 
hundreds  of  years  so  great  was  the  infatuation  about 
Hog  especially,  that  a  virtual  end  was  put  to  all  thinking, 
properly  so  called.  No  man  dared  utter  a  truth  to  which 
he  felt  himself  indebted  to  his  Sotd  alone.  It  mattered 
not  whether  the  truth/ was  even  demonstrably  a  truth,  for 
the  bullet-headed  sav4ns  of  the  time  regarded  only  the 
road  by  which  he  had  attained  it.  They  would  not  even 
look  at  the  end.  **Let  us  see  the  means,"  they  cried, 
**the  means!"  If ,  upon  investigation  of  the  means,  it 
was  found  to  come  under  neitiber  the  category  Aries  (that 
is  to  say.  Ram),  nor  under  the  category  Hog,  why  then 
the  savans  went  no  farther,  but  pronounced  the 
** theorist"  a  fool,  and  would  have  nothing  to  do  with 
him  or  his  truth. 

Now,  it  <Jann)0*:be  maintained  even  that  by  the  crawl- 


THE  INGENIOtTSASTONISHINO  GROUP  161 

ing  system*  the  greatest  amount  of  truth  would  be  at- 
tained in  any  long  series  of  ages^  for  the  repression  of 
imagination  was  an  evil  not  to  be  compensated  for  by 
any  superior  certainty  in  the  ancient  modes  of  inves- 
tigation. The  error  of  these  Jurmains,  these  Vrinch, 
these  Inglitch,  and  these  Amriccans  (the  latter,  by  the 
way,  veere  our  bwn  immediate  progenitors),  was  an  er- 
ror quite  analogous  with  that  of  the  wiseacre  who  fan- 
cies that  he  must  necessarily  see  an  object  the  better  the 
more  closely  he  holds  it  to  his  eyes.  These  people 
blinded  themselves  by  details.  When  they  proceeded 
Hoggishly,  their  ** facts"  were  by  no  means  always  facts 
—a  matter  of  little  consequence  had  it  not  been  for  as-^ 
suming  that  they  were  facts  and  must  be  facts  because 
they  appeared  to  be  such.  When  they  proceeded  on 
the  path  of  the  Ram,  their  course  was  scarcely  as  straight 
as  a  ram's  horn,  for  they  never  had  an  axiom  which  was 
an  axiom  at  all.  They  must  have  been  very  blind  not 
to  see  this,  even  in  their  own  day ;  for  even  in  their  own 
day  many  of  the  long  *' established"  axioms  had  been 
rejected.  For  example,  ^-Ex  nihilo  nihil  fit'^;  **a  body 
cannot  act  where  it  is  not";  ** there  cannot  exist  an- 
tipodes"; *' darkness  cannot  come  out  of  light" — all 
these,  and  a  dozen  other  similar  propositions,  formerly 
admitted  without  hesitation  as  axioms,  were,  even  at 
the  period  of  which  I  speak,  seen  to  be  untenable.  How 
absurd  in  these  people,  then,  to  persist  in  putting  faith 
in  "axioms"  as  immutable  bases  of  Truth!  But  even 
out  of  the  mouths  of  their  soundest  reasoners  it  is  easy 
to  detntmstrate  the  futility,  the  impalpability  of  their 
axioms  in  general.  Who  was  the  soundest  of  their  logi- 
cians f    Let  me  see!    I  will  go  and  ask  Pundit  and  be 


163  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NAREATIVES 

baek  in  a  minute.  .  .  •  Ah,  here  we  have  it !  Here 
is  a  book  written  nearly  a  thousand  years  ago  and  lately 
translated  from  Ingliteh — ^whieh,  by  the  way,  appears 
to  have  been  the  rudiment  of  the  Amriccan.  Pundit 
says  it  is  decidedly  the  cleverest  ancient  work  on  its 
topic,  Logie.  The  author  (who  was  much  thought  of 
in  his  day)  was  one  Miller,  or  Mill;  and  we  find  it  re- 
corded of  him,  as  a  point  of  some  importance,  that  he 
had  a  mill-horse  called  Bentham.  Bujt  let  us  glance  at 
the  treatise  I 

Ah!  ** Ability  or  inability  to  conceive/ V says  Mr. 
Mill,  very  properly,  **is  in  no  case,  to  be  received  as  a 
^criterion  of  axiomatic  truth."  What  ,?iodem  in  his 
senses  would  ever  think  of  disputing  this  truism?  The 
only  wonder  with  us  must  be,  how  it  happened  that 
Mr.  Mill  conceived  it  necessary  even  to  hint  at  anything 
so  obvious.  So  far,  good — ^but  let  .us  turn  over  another 
paper.  What  have  we  here?  ** Contradictories  can- 
not both  be  trucr-rthat  is,  cannot  coexist  in  nature.'* 
Here  Mr.  Mill  means,  for  example,  that  a  tree  must  be 
either  a  tree  or  not  a  tree — ^that  it  cannot  be  at  the 
same  time  a  tree  and  not  a  tree.  Very  well ;  but  I  ask 
him  why.  His  reply  is  this — and  never  pretends  to  be 
anything  else  than  this— **  Because  it  is  impossible  to 
conceive  that  contradictories  can  both  be  true."  But 
this  is  no  answer  at  all,  by  his  own  showing;  for  has 
he  not  just  admitted  as  a  truism  that  *' ability  yor  in- 
ability to  conceive  is  in  no  case  to  be  received  as  a 
criterion  of  axiomatic  truth"? 

Now  I  do  not  complain  of  these  ancients  so  mnch 
because  their  logic  is,  by. their  own  showing,  utterly 
baseless,  worthless  and  fantastic  altogether,  as  because 


THE  INGENIOUS- ASTONISHING  GROUP  ifig 

of  their  pompous  and  imbecile  proscription  of  all  other 
roads  of  Truth,  of  all  other  means  for  its  attainment 
than  the  two  preposterous  paths — the  one  creeping  and 
the  one  of  crawling — ^to  which  they  have  dared  to  con- 
fine the  Soul  that  loves  nothing  so  well  as  to  soar. 

By  the  by,  my  friend,  do  you  not  think  it  would  have 
puzzled  these  ancient  dogmaticians  to  have  determined 
by  which  of  their  two  roads  it  was  that  the  most  im- 
portant and  most  sublime  of  all  their  truths  was,  in 
effect,  attained?  I  mean  the  truth  of  Gravitation. 
Newton  owed  it  to  Kepler.  Kepler  admitted  that  his 
three  laws  were  guessed  at — ^these  three  laws  of  all 
laws  which  led  the  great  Inglitch  mathematician  to  his 
principle,  the  basis  of  all  physical  principle — ^to  go  be- 
hind which  we  must  enter  the  Kingdom  of  Metaphysics  t 
Kepler  guessed — ^that  is  to  say,  imagined.  He  was 
essentially  a  **  theorist  *' — that  word  now  of  so  much 
sanctity,  formerly  an  ^ithet  of  contempt.  Would  it 
not  have  puzzled  these  old  moles,  too,  to  have  explained 
by  which  of  the  two  '* roads''  a  cryptographist  unriddles 
a  cryptograph  of  more  than  usual  secrecy,  or  by  which 
of  the  two  roads  ChampoUion  directed  mankind  to  those 
enduring  and  almost  innumerable  truths  which  resulted 
from  his  deciphering  the  Hieroglyphics? 

One  word  more  on  this  topic  and  I  will  be  done 
boring  you.  Is  it  not  passing  strange  that,  with  their 
eternal  prattling  about  roads  to  Truth,  these  bigoted 
people  missed  what  we  now  so  clearly  perceive  to  be  the 
great  highway — ^that  of  Consistency?  Does  it  not  seem 
singular  how  they  should  have  failed  to  deduce  from 
the  works  of  God  the  vital  fact  that  a  perfect  consist^ 
eney  must  be  an  absolute  truth !    How  plain  has  been 


164  TYPES  OP  PEOSE  NAHBATIVES 

onr  process  since  the  late  announcement  of  this  propo- 
sition !  Investigation  has  been  taken  out  of  the  hands 
of  the  groundmoles  and  given,  as  a  task,  to  the  true  and 
onl7  true  thinkers,  the  men  of  ardent  imagination.  These 
latter  theorize.  Can  you  not  fancy  the  shout  of  scorn 
with  which  my  words  would  be  received  by  our  progeni- 
tors were  it  possible  for  them  to  be  now  looking  over  my 
shoulder!  These  men,  I  say,  theorize;  and  their  theo- 
ries are  simply  corrected,  reduced,  systematized — 
cleared,  little  by  little,  of  their  dross  of  inconsistency 
— ^until,  finally,  a  perfect  consistency  stands  apparent 
which  even  the  most  stolid  admit,  because  it  is  a  consist- 
ency, to  be  an  absolute  and  an  unquestionable  truth. 

April  4th, — The  new  gas  is  doing  wonders,  in  con- 
junction with  the  new  improvement  with  gutta  percha. 
How  very  safe,  commodious,  manageable,  and  in  every 
respect  convenient  are  our  modem  balloons?  Here  is 
an  immense  one  approaching  us  at  the  rate  of  at  least 
a  hundred  and  fifty  miles  an  hour.  It  seems  to  be 
crowded  with  people — ^perhaps  there  are  three  or  four 
hundred  passengers — and  yet  it  soars  to  an  elevation 
of  nearly  a  mile,  looking  down  upon  poor  us  with  sov- 
ereign contempt.  Still,  a  hundred  or  even  two  hundred 
miles  an  hour  is  slow  traveling  aifter  all.  Do  you  re- 
member our  fiight  on  the  railroad  across  the  Kanadaw 
continent?  Fully  three  hundred  miles  the  hour — that 
was  traveling.  Nothing  to  be  seen,  though — ^nothing 
to  be  done  but  flirt,  feast  and  dance  in  the  magnificent 
saloons.  Do  you  remember  what  an  odd  sensation  was 
experienced,  when,  by  chance,  we  caught  a  glimpse  of  ex- 
ternal objects  while  the  ears  were  in  full  flight  f  Every- 
thing seemed  unique — ^in  one  mass.    For  my  part,  I  can- 


THE  INGBNIOUSASTONISHING  GBOUP  X66 

not  say  but  that  I  preferred  the.  traveling  by  the  slow 
train  of  a  hundred  miles  the  hour.  Here  we  were  per- 
mitted to  have  glass  windows — even  to  have  them  open 
— and  something  like  a  distinct  view  of  the  country  was 
attainable.  •  .  .  Pundit  says  that  the  route  for  the 
.great  Kanadaw  railroad  must  have  been  in  some  meas- 
ure marked  out  about  nine  hundred  years  ago !  In  fact,  he 
goes  so  far  as  to  assert  that  actual  traces  of  a  road  are 
still  discernible — ^traces  referable  to  a  period  quite  as 
remote  as  that  mentioned.  The  track,  it  appears,  was 
double  only ;  ours,  you  know,  has  twelve  paths ;  and  three 
or  fmir  new  ones  are  in  preparation.  The  ancient  rails 
are  very  slight,  and  placed  so  close  together  as  to  be, 
according  to  modem  notions,  quite  frivolous,  if  not  dan- 
gerous, in  the  extreme.  The  present  width  of  track — 
fifty  feet — ^is  considered,  indeed,  scarcely  secure  enough. 
For  my  part,  I  make  no  doubt  that  a  track  of  some 
sort  must  have  existed  in  very  remote  times,  as  Pundit 
asserts;  for  nothing  can  be  dearer,  to  my  mind,  than 
that,  at  some  period — ^not  less  than  seven  centuries  ago, 
certainly-r— the  Northern  and  Southern  Kanadaw  con- 
tinents were  united;  the  Kanawdians,  then,  would  have 
been  driven,  by  necessity,  to  a  great  railroad  across  the 
continent. 

April  5th. — I  am  almost  devoured  by  ennui.  Pundit 
is  the  only  conversible  person  on  board;  and  he,  poor 
soul,  can  speak  of  nothing  but  antiquities.  He  has  been 
occupied  all  the  day  in  the  attempt  to  convince  me 
that  ancient  Americans  governed  themselves!  Did  ever 
anybody  hear  of  such  an  absurdity  ?  Th^t  they  existed 
in  a  sort  of  every-man-for-himself  confederacy,  after  the 
fashion  of  the  ** prairie  dogs"  that  we  read  of  in  fable. 


166  l^YPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

He  says  that  they  started  with  the  queerest  ideas  con- 
ceivable, viz :  that  all  men  are  bom  free  and  equal — ^this 
in  the  very  teeth  of  the  laws  of  gradation  so  visibly  im- 
pressed upon  all  things  both  in  the  moral  and  physical 
universe.  Every  man  *  Woted,"  as  they  called  it — that  is 
to  say,  meddled  with  public  affairs — until  at  length,  it- 
was  discovered  that  what  is  everybody's  business  is  no- 
body's, and  that  the  ** Republic'*  (so  the  absurd  thing 
was  called)  was  without  a  government  at  all.  It  is  related, 
however,  that  the  first  circumstance  which  disturbed, 
very  particularly,  the  self-complacency  of  the  philoso- 
phers who  constructed  this  ** Republic"  was  the  startling 
discovery  that  universal  suffrage  gave  opportunity  for 
fraudulent  schemes,  by  means  of  which  any  desired 
number  of  votes  might  at  any  time  be  polled,  without 
the  possibility  of  prevention  or  even  detection,  by  any 
party  which  should  be  merely  villainous  enough  not 
to  be  ashamed  of  the  fraud.  A  little  reflection  upon 
this  discovery  sufBced  to  render  evident  the  conse- 
quences, which  were  that  rascality  must  predominate — 
— in  a  word,  that  a  republican  government  could  never 
be  anything  but  a  rascally  one.  While  the  philoso- 
phers, however,  were  busied  in  blushing  at  their  stu- 
pidity in  not  having  foreseen  these  inevitable  evils,  and 
intent  upon  the  invention  of  new  theories,  the  matter 
was  put  to  an  abrupt  issue  by  a  fellow  of  the  name  of 
Mob,  who  took  everything  into  his  own  hands  and  set  up 
a  despotism,  in  comparison  with  which  those  of  the 
fabulous  Zeros  and  Hellofagabaluses  were  respectable 
and  delectable.  This  Mob  (a  foreigner,  by  the  by)  is 
said  to  have  been  the  most  odious  of  all  men  that  ever 
encumbered  the  earth.    He  was  a  giant  in  stature — ^in- 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHINa  GROUP  167 

solent,  rapacious,  filthy;  had  the  gall  of  a  bullock  with 
the  heart  of  a  hyena  and  the  brains  of  a  peacock.  He 
died,  at  length,  by  dint  of  his  own  energies,  which  ex- 
hausted him.  Nevertheless,  he  bad  his  uses,  as  every- 
thing has,  however  vile,  and  taught  mankind  a  lesson 
which  to  this  day  it  is  in  no  danger  of  forgetting — 
never  to  run  directly  contrary  to  the  natural  analogies. 
As  for  Republicanism,  no  analogy  could  be  found  for 
it  upon  the  face  of  the  earth — unless  we  except  the  case 
of  the  ** prairie  dogs,''  an  exception  which  seems  to  dem- 
onstrate, if  anything,  that  democracy  is  a  very  ad- 
mirable form  of  government — for  dogs. 

April  6th.— hast  night  had  a  fine  view  of  Alpha 
Lyrae,  whose  disk,  through  our  captain's  spy  glass,  sub- 
tends an  angle  of  half  a  degree^  looking  very  much  as 
our  sun  does  to  the  naked  eye  on  a  misty  day.  Alpha 
Lyrae,  although  so  very  much  larger  than^our  sun,  by 
the  by,  resembles  him  closely  as  regards  its  spots,  its  at- 
mosphere, and  in  many  other  particulars.  It  is  only 
within  the  last  century.  Pundit  tells  me,  that  the  binary 
relation  existing  between  these  two  orbs  began  even  to 
be  suspected.  The  evident  motion  of  our  system  in 
the  heavens  was  (strange  to  say!)  referred  to  an  orbit 
about  a  prodigious  star  in  the  center  of  the  galaxy. 
About  this  star,  or  at  all  events  about  a  center  of  grav- 
ity common  to  all  the  globes  of  the  Milky  Way  and 
supposed  to  be  near  Alcyone  in  the  Pleiades,  ^very  one 
of  these  globes  was  declared  to  be  revolving,  our  own 
performing  the  circuit  in  a  period  of  117,000,000  of 
years !  We,  with  our  present  lights,  our  vast  telescopic 
improvements,  and  so  fprth,  of  course  find  it  difficult 
to  comprehend  the  ground  of  an  idea  such  as  this.    Its 


168  TYPES  OP  PEOSE  NABBATIVES 

first  propagator  was  one  Mudler.  He  was  led,  we  must 
presume,  to  this  wild  hypothesis  by  mere  analogy  in 
the  first  instance;  but,  this  being  the  case,  he  should 
have  at  least  adhered  to  analogy  in  its  development.  A 
great  central  orb  was,  in  fact,  suggested;  so  far  Mud- 
ler was  consistent.  This  central  orb,  however,  dynam- 
ically, should  have  been  greater  than  all  its  surrounding 
orbs  taken  together.  The  question  might  then  have 
been  asked,  **Why  do  we  not  see  itT'  We,  especially, 
who  occupy  the  mid  region  of  the  cluster — ^the  very 
locality  near  which,  at  least,  must  be  situated  this  in- 
conceivable central  sun.  The  astronomer,  perhaps,  at 
this  point,  took  refuge  in  the  suggestion  of  non-luminos- 
ity; and  here  analogy  was  suddenly  let  fall.  But  even 
admitting  the  central,  orb  non-luminous,  how  did  he 
manage  to  explain  its  failure  to  be  rendered  visible  by 
the  incalculable  host  of  glorious  suns  glaring  in  all 
directions  about  it?  No  doubt  what  he  finally  main- 
tained was  merely  a  center  of  gravity  common  to  all 
the  revolving  orbs — ^but  here  again  analogy  must  have 
been  let  fall.  Our  system  revolves,  it  is  true,  about  a 
common  center  of  gravity,  but  it  does  this  in  connec- 
tion with  and  in  consequence  of  a  material  sun  whose 
mass  more  than  coimterbalances  the  rest  of  the  system. 
The  mathematical  circle  is  a  curve  composed  of  an  in- 
finity of  straight  lines ;  but  this  idea  of  the  circle — ^this 
idea  of  it  which,  in  regard  to  all  earthly  geometry,  we 
consider  as  merely  the  mathematical,  in  contradistinc- 
tion from  the  practical,  idea — is,  in  sober  fact,  the  prac- 
tical conception  which  alone  we  have  any  right  to  enter- 
tain in  respect  to  those  Titanic  circles  with  which  we 
have  to  deal,  at  least  in  fancy,  when  we  suppose,  our 


THE  INGENIOXJS-'aSTONISHING  GROUP  169 

system,  with  its  fellows,  revolving  about  a  point  in  the 
center  of  the  galaxy.  Let  the  most  vigorous  of  human 
imaginations  but  attempt  to  take  a  single  step  toward 
the  comprehension  of  a  circuit  so  unutterable !  It  would 
scarcely  be  paradoxical  to  say  that  a  flash  of  lightning 
itself,  traveling  forever  upon  the  circumference  of  this 
inconceivable  circle,  would  still  forever  be  traveling  in 
a  straight  line.  That  the  path  of  our  sun  along  sucJh 
a  circumference — ^that  the  direction  of  our  system  in 
such  an  orbit — ^would,  to  any  humali  perception,  deviate 
in  the  slightest  degree  from  a  straight  line  even  in  a 
million  of  years,  is  a  proposition  not  to' » be  entertained; 
and  yet  these  ancient  astronomers  were  absolutely 
cajoled,  it  appears,  into  believing  that  a  decisive  curva- 
ture had  become  apparent  during  the  brief  period  of 
their  astronomical  history — during  the  mere  point — dur- 
ing the  utter  nothingness  of  two  or  three  thousand  years ! 
How  incomprehensible,  that  considerations  such  as  this 
did  not  at  once  indicate  to  them  the  true  state  of  affairs 
—that  of  the  binary  revolution  of  our  sun  and  Alpha 
Lyrae  around  a  common  center  of  gravity ! 

April  7th. — Continued  last  night  our  astronomical 
amusements.  Had  a  fine  view  of  the  five  Neptunian 
asteroids,  and  watched  with  much  interest  the  putting 
of  a  huge  impost  on  a  couple  of  lintels  in  the  new  tem- 
ple at  Daphnis  in  the  moon.  It  was  amusing  to  think 
that  creatures  so  diminutive  as  the  lunarians,  and  bear- 
ing so  little  resemblance  to  humanity,  yet  evinced  a 
mechanical  ingenuity  so  much  superior  to  our  own.  One 
finds  it  difficult,  too,  to  conceive  the  vast  masses  which 
these  people  handle  so  easily,  to  be  as  light  as  our  own 
reason  tell  us  they  actually  are. 


170  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NABRATIVES 

April  8th, — Eureka!  Pundit  is  in  his  glory.  A 
balloon  from  Kanadaw  spoke  us  today  and  threw  on 
board  several  late  papers ;  they  contain  some  exceedingly 
curious  information  relative  to  Kanawdian  or  rather 
Amriccan  antiquities.  You  know,  I  presume,  that  labor- 
ers have  for  some  months  been  employed  in  preparing 
the  ground  for  a  new  fountain  at  Paradise,  the  Em- 
peror's principal  pleasure  garden.  Paradise,  it  appears, 
has  been,  literally  speaking,  an  island  time  out  of  mind 
— ^that  is  to  say,  its  northern  boundary  was  always  (as 
far  back  as  any  record  extends)  a  rivulet,  or  rather  a 
very  narrow  arm  of  the  sea.  This  arm  was  gradually 
widened  until  it  attained  its  present  breadth — a  mile. 
The  whole  length  of  the  island  is  nine  miles ;  the  breadth 
varies  materially.  The  entire  area  (so  Pundit  says) 
was,  about  eight  hundred  years  ago,  densely  packed  with 
houses,  some  of  them  twenty  stories  high:  land  (for 
some  most  unaccountable  reason)  being  considered  as 
especially  precious  just  in  this  vicinity.  The  disastrous 
earthquake,  however,  of  the  year  2050,  so  totally  up- 
rooted and  overwhelmed  the  town  (for  it  was  almost 
too  large  to  be  called  a  village)  that  the  most  indefatr 
igable  of  our  antiquarians  have  never  yet  been  able 
to  obtain  from  the  site  any  sufficient  data  (in  the  shape 
of  coins,  medals  or  inscriptions)  wherewith  to  build  up 
even  the  ghost  of  a  theory  concerning  the  manners^  cus- 
toms, etc.,  etc.,  etc.,  of  the  aboriginal  inhabitants.  Near- 
ly all  that  we  have  hitherto  known  of  them  is  that  they 
were  a  portion  of  the  Knickerbocker  tribe  of  savages 
infesting  the  continent  at  its  first  discovery  by  Recorder 
Riker,  a  knight  of  the  Golden  Fleece.  They  were  by 
no  means  uncivilized,  however,  but  cultivated  various 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GROUP  171 

arts  and  even  sciences  after  a  fashion  of  their  own.  It 
it  related  of  them  that  they  were  acute  in  many  re- 
spects, but  were  oddly  afflicted  with  monomania  for 
building  what,  in  the  ancient  Amriccan,  was  denomi- 
nated ** churches" — a  kind  of  pagoda  instituted  for  the 
worship  of  two  idols  that  went  by  the  names  of  Wealth 
and  Fashion.  In  the  end,  it  is  said,  the  island  became, 
nine-tenths  of  it,  church.  The  women,  too,  it  appears, 
were  oddly  deformed  by  a  natural  protuberance  of  the 
region  just  below  the  small  of  the  back — although,  most 
unaccountably,  this  deformity  was  looked  upon  alto- 
gether in  the  light  of  a  beauty.  One  or  two  pictures 
of  these  singular  women  have,  in  fact,  been  miraculous- 
ly preserved.  They  looked  very  odd,  very — ^like  some- 
thing between  a  turkeycock  and  a  dromedary. 

Well,  these  few  details  are  nearly  all  that  have  de- 
scended to  us  respecting  the  ancient  Knickerbockers.  It 
seems,  however,  that  while  digging  in  the  center  of  the 
emperor's  garden  (which,  you  know,  covers  the  whole 
island),  some  of  the  workmen  unearthed  a  cubical  and 
evidently  chiseled  block  of  granite,  weighing  several 
hundred  pounds.  It  was  in  good  preservation,  having 
received,  apparehtly,  little  injury  from  the  convulsion 
which  entombed  it.  On  one  of  its  surfaces  was  a  mar- 
ble slab  with  (only  think  of  it!)  an  inscription — a 
legible  inscription.  Pundit  is  in  ecstasies.  Upon  de- 
taching the  slab,  a  cavity  appeared,  containing  a  leaden 
box  filled  with  various  coins,  a  long  scroll  of  names, 
several  documents  which  appear  to  resemble  newspapers, 
with  other  matters  of  intense  interest  to  the  antiqua- 
rian !  There  can  be  no  doubt  that  all  these  are  genuine 
Amriccan  relics  belonging  to  the  tribe  called  Knicker- 


172  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

bocker.  The  papers  thrown  on  board  our  balloon  are 
filled  with  fac-similes  of  the  coins,  MSS.,  typography, 
etc-,  etc.  I  copy  for  your  amusement  the  Eiiickerbocker 
inscription  on  the  marble  slab : 

This  Corner  Stone  of  a  Monument  to  the 

Memory  of 

GEORGE  WASHINGTON, 

was  laid  with  appropriate  ceremonies  on  the 

19th  day  of  October,  1847, 

the  anniversary  of  the  surrender  of 

Lord  Comwallis 

to  General  Washington  at  Yorktown, 

A.  D.  1781, 

under  the  auspices  of  the 

Washington. Monument  Association  of  the 

City  of  New  York. 

This,  as  I  give  it,  is  a  verbatim  translation  done 
by  Pundit  himself,  so  there  can  be  no  mistake  about  it. 
Prom  the  few  words  thus  preserved,  we  gleam  several 
important  items  of  knowledge,  not  the  least  interesting 
of  which  is  the  fact  that  a  thousand  years  ago  acttial 
monuments  had  fallen  into  disuse — ^as  was  all  very- 
proper — ^the  people  contenting  themselves,  as  we  do  now, 
with  a  mere  indication  of  the  design  to  erect  a  monu- 
ment at  some  future  time;  a  cornerstone  being  cau- 
tiously laid  by  itself  ''solitary  and  alone"  (excuse  me 
for  quoting  the  great  Amriccan  poet  Benton!)  as  a 
guarantee  of  the  magnanimous  intention.  We  ascertain, 
too,  very  distinctly,  from  this  admirable  inscription,  the 
how  as  well  as  the  where  and  the. what,  of  the  great 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GROUP  173 

surrender  in  question.  As  to  the  where,  it  was  York- 
town  (wherever  that  was),  and  as  to  the  what^  it  was 
General  Comwallis  (no  doubt  some  wealthy  dealer  in 
com).  He  was  surrendered.  The  inscription  commem- 
orates the  surrender  of — ^what? — ^why,  "of  Lord  Com- 
wallis." The  only  question  is  what  could  the  savages 
wish  him  surrendered  for.  But  when  we  remember 
that  these  savages  were  undoubtedly  cannibals,  we  are 
led  to  the  conclusion  that  they  intended  him  for  sau- 
sage. As  to  the  how  of  the  surrender,  no  language  can 
be  more  explicit.  Lord  Comwallis  was  surrendered  (for 
sausage)  '* under  the  auspices  of  the  Washington  Monu- 
ment Association" — ^no  doubt  a  charitable  institution 
for  the  depositing  of  cornerstones.  But,  Heaven  bless 
me!  what  is  the  matter?  Ah,  I  see — ^the  balloon  has  col- 
lapsed, and  we  shall  have  a  tumble  into  the  sea.  I  have, 
therefore,  only  time  enough  to  add  that,  from  a  hasty 
inspection  of  the  fac-similes  of  newspapers,  etc.,  etc.,  I 
find  that  the  great  men  in  those  days  among  the  Amric- 
cans,  were  one  John,  a  smith,  and  one  Zacchary,  a 
tailor. 

Good-bye,  until  I  see  you  again.  "Whether  you  ever 
get  this  letter  or  not  is  point  of  little  importance,  as  I 
write  altogether  for  my  own  amusement.  I  shall  cork 
the  MS.  up  in  a  bottle,  however,  and  throw  it  into  the 
sea.  Yours  everlastingly, 

PUNDITA. 
— Edgar  Allan  Poe. 

Busyong's  Trip  to  Jupiter 

Singular  indeed  among  such  ordinary  men  as  we 
come  across  in  our  everyday  life  Busyong  might  have 


174  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

seemed  to  us,  both  on  aecotint  of  his  features  and  of  his 
attitude.  He  had  wrinkles  on  his  face  which  showed 
that  he  had  smiled  and  laughed  much  in  his  life;  but 
his  expression  was  rather  sardonic.  He  was  a  lively 
man,  with  a  keen  sense  of  what  is  serious  and  what 
is  ludicrous.  Owing  to  this  peculiarity  Busyong  did 
not  have  many  acquaintances  among  his  tribe.  How- 
ever, he  did  not  feel  lonesome  or  forlorn;  often  he 
amused  himself  in  observing  in  his  people  what  he  re- 
garded as  the  overstepping  of  limits  of  propriety  and 
decency.  He  was  not  a  man  of  vast  knowledge,  yet  he 
had  exquisite  common  sense,  which  his  few  good  friends 
admired. 

Busyong  entertained  the  idea  of  visiting  the  bright- 
est planet,  next  to  Venus,  of  our  solar  system,  namely, 
Jupiter ;  for  he  had  read  in  a  certain  book  that  Jupiter 
is  inhabited,  and  the  inhabitants  can  float  in  the  air 
because  of  their  lightness.  **This  is  something  to  me/' 
he  said  to  himself.  ''Let  us  see  what  sort  of  people 
they  are.''  So,  led  by  curiosity,  Busyong  after  several 
attempts  succeeded  in  finding  means  by  which  he  could 
go  to  Jupiter.  He  made  a  large  balloon-like  machine. 
"When  Busyong  had  prepared  everything  necessary  for 
this  aerial  voyage,  he  began  ascending  from  the  top 
of  Mt.  Makiling  at  sunset.  Nobody  witnessed  him,  be- 
cause he  did  not  make  the  purpose  of  his  voyage  known 
to  anybody.  While  he  was  ascending,  he  was  delighted 
to  observe  the  earth  growing  smaller  and  smaller.  The 
machine  of  the  balloon  was  so  powerful  that  by  turn- 
ing a  sort  of  button  to  its  maximum  capacity,  as  Bus- 
yong did,  he  had  the  balloon  soon  piercing  the  clouds 
and  like  a  large  condor  soaring  in  the  sky.    When  Bus- 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GBOUP  175 

yong  found  out  that  he  could  hardly  breathe,  he  accel* 
erated  the  speed  of  the  balloon,  so  that  in  a  few  moments 
he  found  himself  in  a  different  atmosphere  where  he 
could  breathe  as  well  as  before  when  he  was  yet  near 
the  earth.  He  was  now  near  Jupiter,  whose  bright- 
ness had  served  him  as  a  lighthouse.  He  had  puffed 
out  some  of  the  vapor  in  the  balloon,  so  that  he  might 
go  down  nearer  the  planet.  It  being  very  early  in  the 
morning,  he  resolved  to  take  a  rest;  for  he  was  tired 
of  seeing  nothing  but  stars  and  sky. 

Presently,  after  about  two  hours,  when  the  sun  was 
just  appearing  from  behind  the  planet,  Busyong  woke 
up.  He  was  glad;  for  he  had  dreamt  that  he  should 
see  things  which  he  had  never  seen  before.  After  rub- 
bing his  eyes  with  a  handkerchief,  he  began  to  look 
around  him.  With  the  aid  of  a  telescope  which  he 
had  brought  he  saw  to  his  surprise  large  and  small 
bodies  of  land  and  water,  which  he  took  for  continents, 
islands,  oceans,  and  lakes,  respectively.  Descending 
lower,  he  perceived  mountains,  some  of  which  were  hid- 
den by  clouds,  and  others  that  were  unhidden,  covered 
with  trees.  When  he  had  directed  his  telescope  towards 
a  valley,  he  noticed  vto  his  happiness  a  poor  dwelling 
of  some  human  being.  It  was  a  hut  with  a  roof  simi- 
lar to  nipa  and  with  a  wooden  ladder,  near  which  was 
a  cock.  The  sight  of  this  dwelling  gave  rise  in  Bus- 
yong's  mind  to  a  train  of  ideas  regarding  the  inhabit- 
ants of  the  planet.  So  far  it  certainly  looked  like  the 
country  he  had  come  from:  it  might  still  be  the 
Philippines.  Busyong  decided  to  alight  from  his  bal- 
loon on  the  top  of  a  mountain  near  the  hut.  After  he 
had  eaten  his  breakfast,  he  began  to  descend  the  moun- 


176  TYPES  OF  PKOSB  NABRATIVES 

tain.    It  was  not  long  before  he  reached  its  foot  through 
devious  paths. 

When  he  appeared  before  the  entrance  ,of  the  co^ 
tage  and  looked  in,  he  found  a  haggard  middle-aged 
man,  a  sluttish  old  woman,  and  a  wan-faced  boy,  all 
of  a  swarthy  appearance, .  sitting  on  the  floor.  They 
were  eating  their  frugal  breakfast,  which  consisted  of 
fried  rice,  coflfee,  and  dried  fish.  They  did  not  use 
spoons,  but  their  plain  dirty-nailed  fingers.  Busyong 
was  surprised  to  find  so  great  a  similarity  both  in  the 
form  of  the  house  and  in  the  manner  of  eating  between 
these  people  and  those  of  his  own  country.  Presently 
upon  his  saluting  these  inmates  with  a  magandang 
araw  po,  a  small  lean  red  dog  began  to  bark  at  him. 
The  man,  who  was  sitting  in  a  squatting  posture,  turned 
his  face  and  remained  for  a  few  moments  staring  at 
Busyong  with  a  little  fright  mingled  with  wonder.  Un- 
fortunately when  the  old  woman  had  cleaned  her  shriv- 
eled hands  unconsciously  with  a  piece  of  brown  ragged 
cloth,  the  dog  vomited  on  it  without  being  noticed  by 
any  one  of  the  family.  Then  with  her  disheveled  hair 
she  stood  up  to  receive  Busyong,  who  was  a  stranger 
to  them;  but  the  man  prevented  her  from  doing  so. 
The  man  did  not  appear  to  understand  Busyong,  who 
again  bade  him  a  good  morning,  and  so  Busyong  re- 
solved to  talk  to  him  like  a  mute  by  signs.  Having 
noticed  a  large  farm  not  very  far  from  the  hut,  Bus- 
yong beckoned  the  man,  and  made  signs,  asking  him  who 
the  owner  of  the  field  was.  The  man,  who  seemed  to 
be  a  farm  laborer,  pointed  to  him  the  way  to  the  rich 
farmer's  house.  Busyong  soon  left  him  still  staring 
with  a  vacant  countenance  and  wide-open  mouth. 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GROUP  177 

Busyong  had  noticed  the  folly  of  the  old  woman 
when  she  wiped  her  hands  with  the  dirty  piece  of  cloth. 
It  was  not  long  after  he  had  started  to  go  that  he 
heard  such  loud  retchings  from  the  hut  that  he  stopped 
and  turned  around.  He  returned  anxious  to  see  what 
the  matter  was.  When  he  appeared  before  the  entrance 
of  the  cottage,  he  saw  the  peasant,  who  kept  asking  his 
wife  in  a  compassionate  manner  what  was  the  matter 
with  her.  The  man  received  no  answer;  for  his  wife 
kept  on  retching  so  canstanty  that  she  thought  that,  like 
a  sea  cucumber,  she  had  everted  all  her  alimentary  canal 
or  was  going  to  do  so.  The  poor  husband  was  so  per- 
plexed that  he  did  not  know  what  to  do  with  her ;  some- 
times he  patted  her  breast;  sometimes  he  rubbed  her 
back  as  if  he  were  stroking  the  bulik  sa  pula  (a  cock 
spotted  with  white  and, red,  but  mostly  with  red)  that 
was  near  the  ladder  of  the  hut. 

Presently,  when  the  peasant  saw  Busyong  observing 
his  action,  he  drew  near  to  him  and  said  something  in 
a  tremulous  voice.  Busyong  explained  to  the  man  by 
motions  that  the  cause  of  all  the  trouble  was  perhaps 
the  vomit  of  the  dog  on  the  piece  of  cloth.  The  man 
hurried  to  convince  himself;  and  in  his  great  anger  he 
would  have  killed  the  poor  animal,  were  it  not  for  Bus- 
yong, who  stopped  him.  The  husband  and  the  wife, 
whose  convulsions  had  calmed  somewhat,  were  angry 
with  the  dog,  and  even  their  little  boy,  pouting  with 
smeared  face,  showed  his  anger  by  squalling  at  and 
whipping  the  animal;  but  at  the  same  time  the  man 
and  the  old  woman  were  afraid  that  Busyong  might 
call  an  ambulance  to  take  them  all  to  a  hospital  or  po- 
lice station.    In  the  midst  of  this  excitement  Busyong 


178  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NABBATIVES 

availed  himself  of  the  opportunity  to  "strike  when  the 
emotional  iron  was  hot."  He  exhorted  the  family  con- 
cerning the  custom  of  eating  with  fingers  in  such  a 
philippic  as  might  have  had  a  very  deep  impression 
on  the  minds  of  all  his  hearers  if  they  had  understood 
him. 

Busyong  then  departed,  and  he  said  to  himself  nod- 
ding, "Aha,  I  remember  my  grandmother  often  said  to 
me  when  she  would  tell  me  amusing  stories  that  in  the 
vineyard  of  the  Lord  there  are  all  sorts  of  things.  I 
see  now  that  her  statement  seems  to  hold  good  even  in 
this  new  planet."  When  he  had  walked  some  distance, 
he  looked  around  him,  and  took  his  handkerchief  out  of 
a  pocket  of  his  coat  and  with  it  wiped  off  the  perspira- 
tion on  his  face.  Peeling  himself  warm,  he  whiffed 
and  said,  "I  see,  this  country  appears  to  have  the  same 
warm  climate  as  that  of  my  native  land.  I  wonder  if 
the  people  here  are  all  brown  like  the  farm  iaborer  and 
me."  After  a  few  minutes'  walk  he  saw  a  large  town 
at  a  short  distance,  and  among  the  small  houses  he  per- 
ceived a  steep  roof  which  he  took  for  the  steeple  of 
the  church  of  the  village.  The  first  house  he  came  to 
in  the  town  was  that  of  the  rich  farmer.  It  was  a  two- 
storied  square  wooden  structure;  in  front  of  it  was  a 
small  garden,  and  behind  a  small  orchard.  Busyong 
knocked  at  the  door,  and  in  a  few  moments  a  servant 
appeared. 

"Is  the  farmer  in?"  Busyong  inquired,  hardly  ex- 
pecting to  be  understood.  He  knew  no  language  but  his 
own,  and  had  to  try  to  get  along  with  that. 

*'Yes,  sir,"  answered  the  servant,  whose  curiosity 
was  awakened  by  the  rather  unfamiliar  appearance  of 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GROUP  179 

Busyong,  but  who  seemed  to  wonder  not  at  all  at  his 
speech. 

*/TeIl  him,  please,  that  a  stranger  desires  to  speak 
with  him." 

Without  uttering  a  word,  the  servant  went  to  com- 
ply with  Busyong 's  refjuest. 

'^Yes,  invite  him  to  come  in,"  said  the  old  farmer 
to  his  servant.  **And,  Andoy,"  he  added,  **tell  Islao  to 
come  here  to  try  these  new  sound  assorters/' 

*'Yes,  sir,"  was  the  boy's  reply  as  he  went  down 
the  stairs. 

The  servant  first  led  Busyong  before  the  farmer.    • 

**Here,  Islao,  see  if  you  can  put  these  new  filterers 
into  your  ears  without  discomfort.  I've  improved  on  the 
others  considerably,  I  think,"  said  the  old  man  as  Bus- 
yong stepped  into  the  room. 

*'6ood  morning,  sir,"  said  Busyong  very  respect- 
fully, taking  the  proffered  package  and  bowing,  though 
he  understood  not  a  word. 

'  *  Oh !  excuse  me,  sir,  excuse  me !  I  mistook  you  for 
my  son,"  exclaimed  the  farmer,  but  seeing  that  Bus- 
yong was  confused  he  motioned  him  to  sit  down,  and 
then  drawing  from  his  ears  a  tiny  pair  of  soft 
elastic-looking  objects,  put  them  back  and  motioned  Bus- 
yong to  imitate  him  by  applying  what  was  in  the  pack- 
age to  his  own  ears.  Being  naturally  very  curious  and 
desiring  above  all  things  to  make  a  good  impression 
an  the  inhabitants  of  this  strange  planet,  Busyong 
obeyed.  But  what  was  his  astonishment  to  find  that 
he  now  began  to  understand  perfectly  what  the  old  man 
was  saying,  whom  before  he  had  not  comprehended  in  the 
least,  although  the  old  fellow  was  already  well  launched 


180  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

on  a  long  exposition.  Busyong's  understanding  began 
to  work  at  about  this  point:  *'You  see,  I  have  greatly 
improved  them.  There  has  alvs^ays  hitherto  been  a  sort 
of  buzzing  accompaniment.  You  don't  feel  any,  do  youT 
You  understand  me  perfectly,  don't  you?  I 
told  my  son  Islao  the  difficulty  could  be  overcome. 
But,  you  see,  people  have  been  so  accustomed  to  getting 
along  with  the  noise  that  they  stopped  being  impatient 
at  it.  But  I  said  since  we  had  all  the  language  sounds 
assorted  and  distributed  to  their  proper  concept  centers, 
there  was  no  reason  why  we  should  not  be  able  to 
conduct  outward  the  so-to-say  'mechanicar  sounds. 
You  understand  me  perfectly,  don't  you,  sir,  and  with 
no  buzzing.    Is  not  that  so?" 

'*Yes,  truly;  but  much  to  my  astonishment,'*  replied 
Busyong,  **for  a  moment  ago  I  did  not  understand  you, 
and  now  I  do.  On  our  planet  I  have  heard  of  light  or 
ray  filterers  that  would  distribute  colors  on  a  sensitive 
camera  plate,  but  this  is  the  first  time  I've  heard  of  a 
language  filterer,  though  I  see  that  it  works  perfectly. 
But,  sir,  I  remember  that  you  were  very  busy  when  I 
came  in,  and  now  I  am  bothering  you." 

*  *  Oh,  no,  sir ;  keep  your  seat,  keep  your  seat,  please. 
This  is  the  time  when  I  attend  to  visitors;  from  nine 
to  twelve  o'clock  in  the  morning  and  from  three  to  five 
o'clock  in  the  afternoon;  and  even  at  any  other  time 
I  am  disposed  to  receive  a  guest,  especially  a  stranger.  * ' 

''Thank  you,  sir.  My  intrusion  is  perhaps  justifiable 
by  my  being  a  stranger  to  this  planet." 

**A  stranger  to  this  planet!  Will  you  explain  your- 
self?   Otherwise  I  shall  think  you  are  some  ghost." 

*'Why,  yes,  I'll  make  myself  clear  as  I  can.    I  ar- 


THE  INGENIOUS- ASTONISHING  GROUP  igl 

rived  here  'just  this  morning  from  the  planet  Earth. 
Near  the  foot  of  that  neighboring  mountain  I  saw  the 
hut  of  your  farm  laborer,  who  showed  me  your  house.'' 
**But  how  did  you  come  to  this  planet  f 
"By  a  special  balloon  which  I  made  myself 
*'0h,  yes,  I  remember  now;  I  rfemember  to  have  read 
—I  do  not  recollect  the  name  of  the  book — ^that  such 
an  aerial  voyage  from  the  earth  to  this  planet  or  vice 
versa  is  possible.     Oh,  please,  stay  here  with  us;  we 
shall  be  very  glad  to  have  you  remain  with  us. " 

'* Thank  you,  sir;  yes,  I'll  stay  here.  Especially  if 
you  will  explain  to  me  this  wonderful  device  by  means 
of  which  I  can  understand  your  language  and  you 
mine.  Now  on  Earth  we  have  to  go  to  the  labor  of 
memorizing  a  whole  dictionary  if  we  wish  to  converse 
with  a  fellow  mortal  of  another  nationality." 

*'0h,  yes;  that's  very  bad.  A  great  loss  of  time 
and  energy.  A  long  while  ago,  after  we  had  perfected 
mechanical  talking  machines,  somebody  realized  that  we 
were  wasting  a  great  amount  of  time  conversing  with 
machinery  when  we  couldn't  understand  our  fellow 
men.  So  he  set  himself  to  thinking  and  he  soon  saw 
that  the  difference  in  languages  is  not  a  difference  in 
ideas,  but  in  sounds.  So  if  he  could  just  filter  the 
sound  waves  as  they  entered  the  cranium,  he  could  trust 
to  consciousness  to  do  the  rest;  for  it  always  responds 
to  phenomena  after  its  own  nature,  not  after  the  na- 
ture of  the  phenomena  that  it  takes  up — as  the  philoso- 
phers had  long  before  proved.  But  I  must  stop  talking. 
I  want  to  hear  about  the  Earth.  I  dare  say  your  planet 
is  much  wiser  than  ours.  Ours  is  very  foolish  in  many 
ways,  as  you  will  see  before  long."    And  the  farmer 


182  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NAKRATIVES    . 

got  uji  to  order  one  of  his  servants  to  prepare  a  room 
for  Busyong. 

The  family  of  the  old  man,  consisting  of  a  wife  and 
a  grown-up  son  and  a  young  daughter,  then  spent  most 
of  the  day  in  eagerly  questioning  Busyong  about  the 
earth  and  its  inhabitants.  Night  came  on  and  the 
farmer  remained  alone  conversing  with  6usyong  beside 
a  window  until  very  late.  They  were  beginning  to  feel 
sleepy  when  a  confused  noise  of  stringed  instruments 
was  heard  from  a  neighboring  house.  Busyong  soen 
lost  his  drowsiness. 

**What  is  that  music  for?  What  does  it  mean  at 
such  at  an  hour  as  this?  'Tis  one  o 'clock, *'  Busyong 
said. 

**  These  people  are  courting  a  lady,  and  their  cack- 
ling is  intended  to  win  the  love  of  the  maiden — ^nay, 
I  should  say  to  annoy  and  disturb  the  neighbors  from 
their  rest;  for  that's  really  what  they  do,''  replied  the 
old  man  with  indignation.  **This  custom,"  he  added, 
''although  not  widespread  in  this  country,  is  yet  after 
all  very  troublesome  and  indeed  very  ridiculous  also. ' ' 

**Now,  I  wonder  if  these  people  know  the  woman 
for  whom  they  are  offering  their  sacrifices." 

''That  is  another  folly  about  them.  That  is  often 
the  case;  these  people  work  hard  making  a  loud  noise 
with  their  wooden  rattles  in  order  to  attain  their  pur- 
pose, but  they  don't  have  the  slightest  idea  of  the  real 
character  of  the  woman  for  whom  they  die  deliriously; 
nay,  they  don't  know  even  how  she  looks;  whether  she 
is  ugly  and  haggard  or  whether  she  is  like  Venus, 
charming  with  beauty." 

"Ha,  ha,  ha,  ha,   0  Folly!     But  let  us  not   fret 


THE  ing*:nious-astonishing  group        lg3 

ourselves  at  the  errors  of  mankind,  for  they  seem  to 
be  natural  both  to  this  planet  and  to  that  of  mine. 
Hark!  who  is  that  singing  now  so  aflEectedlyT' 

''That  is  the  head  of  the  band,  the  Faust.  Listen 
to  his  fastidious  voice  and  the  balder-dash  with  which 
it  is  accompanied." 

Silence  reigned  for  a  time  between  the  old  man  and 
Busyong.  Upon  hearing  no  longer  the  music  which  had 
occasioned  his  remarks  the  old  man  said,  **  Thanks  to 
Dios,  I  think  they  are  gone.  Now  let  us  go  to  bed.  You 
must, be  very  tired,  Busyong.    Good  night." 

''Good  night,"  replied  Busyong. 

Next  morning  the  old  man  told  his  son  Islao  to  take 
a  walk  with  Busyong  around  the  town.  In  this  ex- 
ploration, for  such  did  it  appear  rather  than  just  a 
mere  promenade  to  Busyong,  who  was  a  stranger  to  the 
planet,  Islao  led  his  friend  directly  to  his  large  farm  of 
rice.  Then  they  went  to  the  busiest  part  of  the  large 
town,  where  Busyong  was  delighted  to  observe  the  dif- 
ferent kinds  of  stores— dry  goods  and  hardware.  When 
they  came  to  a  very  lively  street,  Busyong  found  occa- 
sion to  laugh  in  his  characteristic  sarcastic  manner  at 
the  tremendous  numbers  of  different  kinds  of  sign- 
boards, some  hanging  flat  against  the  doors  of  the  stores, 
and  some  sticking  out  a  long  distance  or  even  stretch- 
ing across  the  entire  width  of  the  street.  The  size  of 
the  signboards  ranged  from  the  smallest  of  those  which 
professional  men  use  to  the  very  large  ones  with  which 
the  managers  of  theaters  announce  a  dramatic  per- 
formance. 

While  the  two  friends  were  walking  slowly  along  the 
street,  for  there  were  many  people  out,  their  attention 


184  TYPES  OF  PE08E  NARRAWVES 

was  very  curiously  attracted  by  the  appearance  of  a 
scawny  young  man,  who  came  mincing  by  them.  They 
stopped  beside  a  telegraph  post,  while  the  young  man 
went  on,  meeting  a  friend  at  a  short  distance,  to  whom 
he  said,  '* Hallo,  Tetoy  (Aniceto).  Donde  vamus  youf^' 
''Hallo,  Balatong,"  replied  the  friend.  The  rest  of  their 
conversation  went  on  in  a  low  tone  in  their  peculiar 
dialect.  Busyong  and  Islao  overheard  only  their  slip- 
shod greetings. 

''Islao,  who  is  that  man — ^that  one  who  wears  the 
hat  with  a  wide  ribbon  whose  colors  are  light  blue 
and  green,  and  black  with  white  stripes  resembling  the 
sMn  of  a  skunk?"  inquired  Busyong. 

"What  man?  Excuse  me,  I  was  looking  at  somebody- 
else, "  said  Islao.  "Do  you  mean  that  one  who  wears 
a  bright  red,  yellow,  and  green " 

"Crumpled  small  fish  net  around  his  collar  I  should 
say;  yes,  exactly,  that  one.    Who's  he?'' 

"Ha,  ha,  ha;  oh,  yes.  He  is  one  of  the  suitors  of 
the  girl  who  lives  in  front  of  our  house.  Balatong,  I 
think  is  his  name." 

"Aha,  the  one  who  cackled  last  night,  as  your  father 
said?" 

"I  don't  know,"  laughing. 

"And  that  other  one  with  cross  eyes,  whose  tfousers 
are  folded  up  five  times,  I  think,  showing  his  stockings, 
which  are  like  the  tidies  of  a  chair  back — ^who's  hef  " 

"Who?  That  one  who  wears  broad  ribbon-like  strings 
on  his  shoes?  I  don't  know  him.  Don't  you  think  he 
looks  like  a  woman — I  mean  both  of  them — ^with  their 
way  of  dressing?  Aha,  one  of  them — not  the  cross- 
eyed— ^has  powder  on  his  face,  I  think." 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GROUP  X86 

"Oh,  yes,  yes.  You  know,  in  my  native  country  in 
the  planet  Earth  only  women  are  fond  of  and  use 
such  gaudy  colors  and  such  kind  of  stockings ;  and,  in- 
deed, they  are  only  proper  for  women.  But  we  used 
to '' 

**But  that's  not  all  here;  the  worst  is  when  these 
people  use  stockings — ^as  I  have  had  occasion  to  notice 
many  times — stockings  which  are  elaborately  ornamented 
with  the  queerest  fantastic  designs;  such  as  a  burning 
dainty  heart,  a  dove  carrying  a  bunch  of  dama  de  noche 
with  its  toes — rather,  a  falcon  or  vulture  I  should  say 
— ^great  goodness ! — ^make  the  dove  carry  a  flower  in  its 
claws!'' 

*'Aha,  is  that  so?  Why,  thanks  to  goodness,  in  my 
native  land  no  such  queer  people  are  to  be  found  now, 
except  very,  very  few.  There  used  to  be — ^but  do  you 
know  what  we  call  them  in  pure,  simple.  Tagalog?  We 
call  them  binabae;  that  is  a  bit  worse  than  the  English 
term  *  sissy.'  But  from  your  own  experience,  tell  me, 
Islao,  what  living  being  other  than  man  have  you  ob- 
served making  such  a  liberal  display  of  gaudy  colors 
in  that  most  affected  manner?" 

**Why,  among  plants  you  mean?  Like  the  parasite 
with  beautifully  colored  flowers  hanging  on  that  win- 
dow?" 

**Well,  not  so  low  in  the  organic  world  as  that," 
laughing  heartily.  ''I  don't  mean  a  plant;  I  mean " 

' '  Oh,  I  get  your  point.  You  mean  among  birds  like 
the  gayly  colored  rooster  of  that  man  who  is  now  hawk- 
ing in  that  store,  don't  you?" 

**  Exactly,  upon  my  wish,  you  have  slipped  from 
your  tongue  what  I  was  precisely  going  to  say," 


186  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

"And  I  think  you  know  why  the  birds,  most  espe- 
cially the  males,  do  have  such  bright  colors.'' 

'*Why,  yes;  I  suppose  those  smart  young  men  have 
the  same  view  in  mind  as  that  of  the  male  birds,  and 
meditate  and  dream  that  it  is  *not  proper  at  all  for  a 
man  to  be  alone,'  as,  thinking  of  Priscilla,  Miles  Stan- 
dish  would  say." 

''Possibly,  possibly,"  laughing.  Islao  did  not  under- 
stand the  allusion,  but  he  let  it  pass. 

**Now  be  careful;  don't  speak  loud,"  whispered 
Busyong. 

Presently  the  two  friends  who  were  the  object  of 
Busyong  and  Islao 's  rather  severe  remarks  shuffled  to- 
wards Busyong  and  Islao,  stopping  near  the  telegraph 
post  beside  them.  The  two  chums  were  going  to  sepa- 
rate when  one  of  them,  the  cross-eyed,^  jabbered,  *'0h, 
you  teni  espijo,  ah?    Par  que  f  You  ajos  malo,  ehf^* 

A  sudden  insuppressible  peal  of  laughter  was  heard 
from  Busyong  and  Islao,  who  soon  tried  to  act  as  if  they 
did  not  hear  the  blunder. 

^^Cosa  ajos^  Am  no  cook  as  you,"  said  the  other 
grinning  over  his  glasses  a  little  more  easily  than  the 
first  one. 

^'Cosa  esiif  asked  the  cross-eyed  one,  pointing  to 
his  eyes  with  his  dirty-nailed  finger. 

'*T'at  is  call  'esquinting  eyes.'  " 

*'Ah,  yes.    P  or  que  got  espijo  you,  esquinting  ais?" 

''Oh,  you  don'  know  its  value ;  t'at  is  to  add  weight," 
erecting  his  body  and  raising  his  low  chest,  but  for- 
getting that  the  other  had  called  him  cross-eyed. 

Their  gabble  would  have  lasted  longer  if  it  were  not 
for  two  ladies  who  passed  between  them.  Balatong,  as  the 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GROUP  Igy 

young  man  who  wore  spectacles  was  called,  started  to 
mince  along  the  busy  street,  scowling  at  Busyong  and 
at  Islao,  who  were  suppressing  their  laughter  as  best 
they  could,  as  he  strutted  before  them/-  In  a  few  mo- 
ments Busyong  and  Islao  began  also  to  move  about,  and 
soon  kept  pace  with  two  bald-headed  men  who  hap- 
pened to  be  walking  the  street  in  the  same  direction 
as  theirs.  Presently,  one  of  the  old  men  observed  Bala- 
tong,  who  was  peering  at  and  caressing  with  a  hand- 
kerchief one  of  his  tapped  shoes  which  had  been  stepped 
upon  by  a  **brat,"  to  use  his  own  expression,  as  he  had 
struggled  along,  distorting  carefully  his  body  to  force  a 
way  through  an  idle  crowd.  Then  in  a  sarcastic  but 
indignant  maimer  and  forgetting  what  his  companion 
.was  speaking  about,  the  man  said,  **0h,  look  at  that 
Enigo.  See  how  the  lower  edge  of  his  long  cloak  flaps 
like  a  sail  battered  by  the  wind!" 

'*No,''  said  the  other  old  man,  *'that  is  not  a  cloak, 
but  a  plain  coat.'' 

**Well,  I  thought  it  was  a  cloak  like  those  used  by 
the  people  in  the  neighboring  continent  in  time  of  cold 
weather.  That's  the  reason  why  I  said  he  was  Enigo, 
for  he  uses  a  cloak  now  when  it  is  warm,  and  I  sup- 
pose he  would  use  light  clothes  when  it  is  cold." 

'*That  is  the  fashion  they  say — and  the  latest  one, 
too.'' 

'*Go  to,  the  fashion!" 

Meanwhile  Busyong  nudged  Islao  and  Mliispered  close 
to  his  ear,  ''Did  you  hear  what  these  old  men  were 
talking  about  f" 

Islao  nodded,  smiling. 

Then  the  two  old  men  climbed  into  a  vehicle  very 


188  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NAREATIVES 

much  like  a  carretela,  and  drove  away.  Busyong  and 
Islao  went  into  a  saloon  of  fresh  drinks  and  asked  for 
a  refreshment  similar  to  milkshake. 

'*The  owner  of  this  saloon  is  a  woman,  according 
to  the  signboard  at  the  door,"  remarked  Bnsyong. 

'  *  Yes, ' '  said  Islao,  smiling ; '  *  I  am  sorry  to  say. '  * 

In  the  meantime  Balatong  stopped  in  front  of  a  dry 
goods  store  on  the  opposite  sidewalk  and  began  to  rumi- 
nate on  his  image  as  reflected  in  the  glass  of  a  counter, 
and  at  times  twitched  his  scrawny  body.  Busyong  and 
Islao  were  observing  him.  After  a  while  a  clerk  of  the 
store  opened  the  door  of  the  counter  and  turned  a  but- 
ton on  the  back  of  a  puppet,  which  hereto  had  been 
unnoticed  by  Balatong.  Soon  the  dainty  hands  of  the 
puppet,  which  were  raised  in  front  of  its  small  breast,, 
began  to  move  back  and  forth,  especially  the  delicate 
fingers,  as  if  the  whole  figure  had  come  to  life.  Bala- 
tong looked  at  the  doll  rather  pleased  at  first.  But 
when  he  noticed  the  remarkable  similarity  of  all  the 
clothes  of  the  puppet  with  his  own  clothes,  he  began 
to  be  aroused  and  to  feel  offended,  insomuch  that  he 
could  not  help  going  into  the  store  to  complain.  He 
approached  the  man  who  had  made  the  hands  of  the 
puppet  move  and  called  him  to  come  outside.  The  man, 
who  thought  that  he  was  going  to  show  something  on 
the  counter  which  he  wished  to  buy,  followed  him  obe- 
diently. They  stuttered  in  their  native  tongue,  which 
ran  thus  in  English : 

''I  think  that  that  puppet  is  intended  to  offend  me, 
because  it  is  dressed  exactly  in  the  same  way  as  I  am; 
that  is,  with  the  same  clothes,  necktie,  and  hat,  which  I 
bought  from  this  very  store  some  time  ago.    However, 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GROUP  189 

you  have  willfully — ^made — ^the — ^pup — ^pup — ^pup— pet 
— ^move  its  hands  in  such  a  way  as  that — ^pointing  to 
himself  and  then  to  me — ^that  is  as  much  as  to  say  I 
am  a  puppet,"  said  Balatt)ng,  who  began  to  be  angry 
with  the  man,  who  was  laughing  candidly. 

The  man  went  back  into  the  store,  shrugging  his 
square  shoulders  and  paying  no  attention  to  the  com- 
plaint of  Balatong.  Balatong  insisted,  squalling  at  the 
door  in  an  aggressive  attitude,  '* Aren't  you  goin'  to 
take  Vay  the  puppet  from  t'at  counter  T' 

^'E  ko  visa/'  muttered  the  clerk  in  his  native  dialect 
as  he  was  dusting  the  chairs  in  the  store. 

Presently  Busyong  and  Islao,  who  all  this  while 
had  been  mute  spectators  of  the  fray,  came  out  of  the 
saloon  with  a  view  to  settle  the  dispute  peacefully  and 
justly,  for,  after  all,  they  pitied  Balatong,  who,  they 
thought,  had  got  now  into  an  inextricable  strait.  Is- 
lao, who  could  speak  a  little  the  peculiar  dialect  of  the 
clerk,  addressed  the  clerk  confidentially  in  his  own 
tongue,  asking  him  what  was  the  matter.  The  man  an- 
swered in  the  same  language  which  Busyong  understood 
thus:  *'Why,  this  friend  orders  me  to  remove  the  pup- 
pet from  that  counter ;  for  he  says  that  he  is  not  pleased 
with  it." 

''Well,  well,  is  that  the  whole  cause  of  this  fuss?" 
asked  Busyong,  smiling. 

Meanwhile  Balatong  was  setting  forth  to  Islao  ear- 
nestly all  his  complaint  with  many,  many  studied  com- 
plicated movements  of  both  hands  and  body.  Islao  wait- 
ed for  him  to  finish  stuttering,  for  he  wanted  to  talk 
,  with  him.  Then,  suspecting  from  the  tone  of  his  voice 
a  smack  of  Kamkangan  blood  in  Balatong,  Islao  thought 


190  TYPES  OP  PBOSE  NAREATIVES 

it  best  to  feign  comradeship  for  the  sake  of  persuading 
him  to  behave  in  a  more  manly  way.  So,  when  Bala- 
tong  had  finished  jabbering,  Islao  addressed  him  in  the 
most  friendly  manner,  saying  laconically,  ^'Abe,  e  Tea 
makisankut  ketang  e  mo  balu.^'' 

Upon  hearing  these  words,  which  he  at  first  pre- 
tended not  to  have  understood,  Balatong  suddenly  be- 
came excited  and  perplexed.  He  gnashed  his  v^idely 
separated  teeth,  clenched  his  fists,  and  looked  up  into 
Islao 's  face  with  fiery  eyes,  saying,  *'Why  d'you  insult 
an'  curse  me?  If  I  ha-have  done  wron',  show  me  how; 
an'  if  not,  qua  de  causa f^' 

Busyong  and  Islao  smiled  pityingly  and  ironically 
instead  of  being  offended.  On  the  other  hand,  bursting 
into  a  peal  of  laughter,  the  juvenile  clerk  safd  jocosely 
in  a  sort  of  Kamkanga  dialect  the  following:  **Aroo, 
our  ahe  is  an  evangelical  man — fine ! — ^nay,  he  is  a  priest. 
How  was  it? — qua  re  cosa — ^ha,  ha,  ha." 

Balatong  became  the  more  angry  with  the  clerk 
inasmuch  as  he  saw  that  the  clerk  was  poking  fun  at 
him. 

*'I  don'  want  to  be  the  laughing  stock  of  anybody,' 
said  Balatong  indignantly. 

''Don't  be  touchy,  aie/'  said  the  clerk  in  his  own 
dialect. 

All  of  a  sudden  the.  exasperated  Balatong  seized  a 
big  stone  from  the  street  and  dashed  it  against  the  glass 
of  the  counter,  which  broke  into  a  thousand  pieces.  The 
people  of  the  store  and  some  passers-by  were  alarmed 
at  the  violent  action  of  Balatong.     Presently  a  robust 


*  Friend,  don't  poke  your  nose  into  another's  business  which 
you  don't  understand. 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GROUP  191 

old^man  came  hurriedly  shuffling  with  his  wooden  shoes 
towards  Balatong,  and  would  have  strangled  him  were 
it  not  for  the  opportune  presence  of  a  fat  man  who 
was  one  of  the  idle  crowd  that  had  been  gathering  at 
the  door  of  the  shop. 

The  fat  man,  who  was  carrying  under  his  arm  two 
large  scissors  in  a  folded  wMte  coat,  interposed  himself 
between  the  aggressor  and  Balatong,  saying  in  dialect, 
**For  the  sake  of  our  beloved  country!  Don't  behave 
that  way,  fellow  patriot!  Don't,  especially  with  one 
of  the  same  skin  as  yours  and  in  whose  veins  runs  the 
same  pure  blood  as  that  of  yours.  For  the  noblest  ideal 
of  our  Talukap^  party,  countrymen,  bethink  your- 
selves!" 

"Surely,"  replied  the  old  man,  whose  anger  was 
appeased  by  the  slushy  encomium  of  the  intruder.  **But 
this  fellow  here  does  not  seem  to  be.  like  a  true  native 
of  this  country,  for  look  at  what  he  has  done  with  that 
counter,  simply  because  he  snys  he  isn't  pleased  with 
that  puppet  there." 

**Well,  well,"  said  in  a  friendly  manner  the  intruder 
as  he  faced  Balatong,  ''why  do  you  behave  that  way?" 

*'Sherup!  don*  interfere  with  me;  you  had  better 
mind  only  your  incisors,"  retorted  Balatong,  imitating 
with  his  bony  fingers  the  movement  of  the  scissors  he 
meant. 

Busyong  and  Islao  suddenly  burst  into  prolonged 
lau^ter,  while  the  rest  remained  silent  drivelling  with 
wide-opened  mouths  as  they  beheld  the  two  men  laugh- 
ing heartily. 


*A  Tagalog  word  meaning  husk;  but  here  it  is  used  as  an 
adjective  husky,  and  signifies  a  political  party. 


192  TYPES  or  PROSE  NAKRATIVES 

''Do  you  see?  This  friend  is  angry  with  me  ac- 
cording to  the  tone  of  his  voice.  What  did  he  sayf " 
asked  the  fat  man  turning  towards  Busyong  and  Islao. 

Islab  nudged  Busyong  to  get  him  to  come  out  of  the 
store. 

*'Come,  come,  let  us  go  home,  lest  we  hurt  with 
our  laughing  their  susceptible  feelings,  especially  of  that 
young  dandy — ^pardon  me,  I  mean  doctor,"  said  Islao 
aside  to  Busyong  when  they  reached  the  comer  of  a 
street  and  turned  to  the  left. 

''0  Momus,  son  of  Mox!"  exclaimed  Busyong  smil- 
ing after  a  short  time,  ''how  jocund  indeed  must  you  be 
with  the  people  here!*' 

"Surely,  he  must  be,"  said  Islao. 

"By  the  way,  I  remember  that  the  tailor — ^that  is, 
the  fat  man — seemed  to  boast  a  political  party." 

"Oh,  yes!"     . 

"What  is  that  party?" 

"It  is  called  the  National  Talukap  Party.  You  know, 
this  country  is  a  democracy  in  name,  but  an  oligarchy 
in  fact,  as  the  people  here  say,  for  the  government  is 
in  the  hands  of  only  a  very  few  of  the  native  country- 
men ;  most  of  the  power  is  in  f orei^-  hands.  So  the 
Talukap  party  aims  to  reverse  the  condition  of  things; 
nay,  to  have  the  control  of  the  government  wholly  in 
the  hands  of  the  people  of  this  country.  I  am  warmly 
in  favor  of  this  policy.  But  what  I  do  find  objection- 
able in  this  Talukap  party  is  their  affectation  and  tautol- 
ogy, and  their  pretension  and  empty  show  in  their  out- 
ward conduct.  For  my  part,  I  believe  in  doing  things 
silently  but  effectively.  On  the  other  hand,  I  am  not 
in  favor  of  the  other  party,  which  is  called  the  Na- 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GBOUP  193 

tional  Kinagisnan  Party,  whose  policy  is  to  be  contented 
slavishly  with  the  present  condition  of  things  or  with 
whatever  condition  for  the  time  being.  The  people 
who  belong  to  this  Kinagisnan  party  are  very  few  in 
comparison  with  those  that  belong  to  the  Talukap  party. 
Being  in  very  close  contact  with  the  sovereign,  the 
Kinagisnan  people  are  very  apt  to  become  flatterers." 

**  Moreover,  the  ideal  of  your  Talukap  party,  I  think, 
becomes  less  feasible,  if  not  impossible,  when  you  con- 
sider these  dandies  like  those  two  chums  over  there  who 
are  clasping  one  another  by  the  waist.  Indeed,  they 
live  in  a  very  peculiar  world  by  themselves." 

*'And  with  Momus,  I  suppose,  as  their  Supreme 
Being." 

*'Ha,  yes,  I  should  think  so,  too.  But  after  .all  they 
are  not  to  be  blamed.  Everything  goes  step  by  step. 
Even  my  native  country  in  the  planet  Earth  has  had 
the  same  defects  practically  as  these  people  here.  Now 
I  am  glad  that  there  in  my  native  land  the  people, 
especially  the  young  men,  have  reached,  by  education 
and  the  bitter  lesson  of  experience,  of  course,  a  stage 
where  their  old  views  of  the  world  have  become  greatly 
changed,  most  especially  in  this  respect:  now  they  hate 
affectation  under  any  form  whatever,  whether  in  dress, 
maimers,  knowledge  or  in  deeds." 

''Why,  that  is  a  condition  to  be  envied  greatly." 

By  this  time  the  two  friends,  Busyong  and  Islao, 
were  standing  in  front  of  the  farmer's  house.  The  old 
man  and  his  wife  were  awaiting  them  in  order  l|iat  all 
might  dine  together.  The  rest  of  the  day  glided  by 
pleasantly. 

Next  morning  Busyong  decided  to  return  to  the 


194  TYPES  OP  PEOSE  NARRATIVES 

planet  Earth,  although  the  old  fanner  and  his  son  tried 
to  delay  him  longer  in  Jupiter.  He  promised  to  come 
back  to  them.  While  in  his  large  balloon,  and  recol- 
lecting vividly  all  the  things  he  had  observed  in  the 
country  he  was  leaving,  Busyong  let  his  mind  run  upon 
the  following  ancient  lines : 

''Tell  me  not,  in  mournful-  numbers, 

Life  is  but  an  empty  dream! 
For  the  soul  is  dead  that  slumbers, 

And  things  are  not  what  they  seem. 
Life  is  real!    Life  is  earnest!" 

Just  then  he  remembered  with  a  start  that  when 
he  had  begun  to  crank  his  balloon  he  had  taken  out 
his  sound  assorters  and  laid  them  on  the  edge  of  the 
car.  He  had  wanted  to  hear  the  familiar  noise  without 
distribution  in  order  to  feel  that  all  was  ^fe.  And  now 
when  he  looked  for  those  precious  assorters  he  could 
not  find  them.  They  must  have  fallen  overboard.  And 
worst  of  all,  he  had  neglected  to  get  the  whole  explana- 
tion from  the  Jupiterite. 

—Manuel  Candido. 

III.    Tale    of    Scientific    Discovery    and    Mechanical 
Invention 

Tales  of  scientific  discovery  and  mechanical  inven- 
tion api)eal  to  us  as  being  extremiely  modem. 
ij^  Yet  the  essential  elements  had  a  beginning  at 

imaginaxy    least   two   centuries   and   a   half   ago.      The 
°^*  ^        quality  of  the  marvelous  is  easy  enough  to 
trace;   and  the  logicalness  hardly  less  so.     We    find 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GROUP  195 

both  in  the  imaginary  voyages.  De  Bergerac  discovers 
that  he  can  lift  himself  from  the  earth  by  the  expansion 
of  phials  of  dew  affixed  to  his  person,  and  from  this 
experiment  he  goes  on  to  invent  an  elastic  machine 
which  bears  him  to  the  moon.  Klim,  too,  arrives  at  his 
wonderful  adventures  by  a  scientific  beginning:  h^ 
sets  out  to  explore  a  rocky  orifice  in  the  Weathercock 
Mountain,  and  causes  himself  to  be  let  down  by  a  rope. 
The  rope  snaps,  and  he  is  precipitated  into  an  intra- 
terrestrial  astral  system,  where  he  begins  immediately 
to  revolve  around  a  planet  Azar,  his  biscuits  which  he 
had  attempted  to  throw  away  performing  meanwhile 
an  orbit  around  his  own  body.  He  alights,  of  course, 
finally  by  accident,  and  goes  on  with  his  governmental 
experiences. 

These  learned  elements  in  the  imaginary  voyages 
point  definitely  to  our  modern  stories.  The  difference 
lies  in  the  emphasis :  our  modern  stories  are  Difference 
severely  and  consistently  logical,  and  in-  one  of 
terest  centers  in  the  machine  or  the  scientific  •^P****** 
theory.  The  reader  does  not  ask  to  go  on  long  journeys 
to  see  chimeras,  but  he  asks  to  see  ultra-logical  man. 
He  does  not  encourage  the  author  in  being  satiric ;  he 
wants  him  to  be  ihventive,  to  be  more  ingenious  than 
the  race  has  been.  -  The  reader  wants  the  author  to 
show  him  what  man  would  be  if  he  were  consistently 
progressive  and  wise,  what  he  would  come  to  if  he 
worked  day  and  night  at  his  science  and  applied  what 
he  learned, — ^indeed,  what  he  already  knows.  For  it 
is  an  open  secret  in  the  scientific  world  that  there  is 
hardly  a  wonderful  modem  machine  that  is  not  an 
almost  foolishly   simple   application   of   a   well-known 


196  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARBATIVES 

law.  Take  our  marvelous  future  trains,  for  instance, 
that  are  to  run  on  one  rail  and  be  as  wide  and  com- 
modious as  houses — ^they  are  but  to  follow  a  principle 
that  every  school-boy  sees  in  operation  when  lie  spins 
a  top.  I  dare  say,  if  some  person  would  only  write 
a  story  telfeng  us  where  to  affix  the  wheel  and  the 
balance,  we  might  convert  our  present  houses  into 
private  Pullmans,  as  it  were,  that  could  at  any  time 
transport  us,  family  and  all,  with  everyone  of  our 
personal  and  familiar  conveniences  intact  therein,  to 
any  spot  we  chose,  the  only  extra  expense  to  us  for 
each  trip  beiag  a  slight  rent  for  wheel  space  for  the 
time  that  we  were  running  over  the  single-rail  track 
that  led  thitherward. 

Shading  off  from  the  imaginary  voyage  type,  there- 
fore, is  this  modern  one  which  I  have  designated  by 
Essential  the  somewhat  long  title,  tales  of  scientific 
elements  discovery  and  mechanical  invention.  By 
this  title  I  mean  to  distinguish  stories  in  which  the 
occurrences,  though  startling,  are  perfectly  logical  in 
sequence,  granted  the  premise — extraordinary,  but  not 
improbable  under  the  conditions  set  forth.  The  words 
discovery  and  mechanical  express  the  fact  that  the 
sustaining  structure  of  a  story  such  as  these  is  often 
some  invention  superimposed  upon  modern  science.  In 
the  use  of  electricity,  for  instance,  the  characters  in  the 
narrative  go  one  step  further  than  Mr.  Edison ;  in  the 
construction  and  operation  of  the  flying-machine,  sev- 
eral steps  further  than  the  Wright  brothers;  in  the 
discovery  of  elements,  someone  finds  something  more 
useful  and  of  greater  power  than  radium ;  or,  after  long 
experimenting,  he  mixes  a  paint  so  black  or  so  white 


,THK  INaENIOUS-ASTONISHINa  GBOUP  197 

that  the  object  beneath  it  becomes  invisible ;  and  so  on 
and  so  01; — but  all  plausible,  all  with  precise  truth- 
likeness. 

Many  of  our  present-day  magazine  stories  are  of 
this  type.  .Of  the  earlier  modern,  the  ^^ Diamond  Lens" 
by  Fitz-James  O'Brien  is  interesting.  **The  stories  of 
Spider's  Eye"  is  still  sometimes  read.  ''The  tWstyp« 
Life  Magnet ' '  is  well  ^uown.  A  burlesque  verse  tale  of 
mechanical  invention  is  ''The  Wonderful  One  Hoss 
Shay"  by  Oliver  Wendell  holmes.  The  prince  df  all 
ingenious  story-tellers,  however,  is  Frank  R.  Stockton. 

To  construct  a  narrative  of  this  class,  you  must  of 
eourse  first  get  your  underlying  theory.  Experiments 
in  the  chemical  and  physical  laboratory  will  afford 
paany  a  starting  point.  They  will  at  least  suggest  the 
realm  in  which  to  proceed.  Astronomy,  meteor<>logy, 
geology,  mechanics,  mineralogy,  geometry,  optics, 
domestic  science  even, — select  a  simple  problem  in  any 
of  these  aijid.  begin  to  imagine. 

After  you  have  the  starting  point,  it  is  a  good  idea 
to  fix  your  goal.    Where  should  you  like  to  go,  whs* 
should  you  like  to  do,  what  powers  should  sugges- 
you    like    to    have    above    those    of    your  ^^^ 
fellows?     Do   you   wish   to    overcome   the  -^te  the 
restrictions  of  distance,  absence,  darkness,  type 
ieath,  birth,,  poverty,  the  past,  the  future,  the  present  t 

With  these  ppints  of  your  theory  settled,  you  must 
;hen  look  to  the  eourse  of  events.  Shall  the  incidents 
3efall  you  while  discovering  or  while  applying  the 
jcientific  fact,  while  constructing  or  while  working 
(Tour  machine?  Shall  you  be  looking  forward  or  shall 
rou  be  loojong  back  upon  the  events?    Next  you  must 


198  TYPES  OP  PBOSE  NARRATIVES 

find  the  point  of  greatest  stress.  The  climax  of  a  story 
with  the  first  alternative  will  evidently  be  reached  at 
the  culmination  of  the  inventor's  labors;  with  the 
second  alternative,  at  the  most  exciting  adventure  in 
the  nse  of  the  machine  or  in  the  direct  application  of 
the  scientific  fact. 

The  logical  close  of  the  story  is  in  both  cases  the 
disappearance  of  the  machine  or  the  scientist ;  l)ut  you 
will  be  repaid  by  thinking  carefully  over  this  matter 
and  being  here  as  elsewhere  ai^  ingenious  and  original 
as  you  can. 

Your  deductions  must  appear  to  be  sound.  Of 
course,  your  reasoning  may  have  to  be  largely  specious 
and  in  the  gross,  as  it  were,  unless  you  are  a  better 
inventor  than  the  inventors.  But  you  have  this  advaa- 
tage  t)ver  the  practical  man :  you  can  avoid  the  greater 
difficulties  by  keeping  silent  about  them ;  and  for  actual 
achievement  you  can  substitute  assertion.  You  must 
seem  on  the  surface,  however,  to  be  perfectly  logical 
The  reader  will  not  question  you  too  closely,  if  you 
are  only  spirited  and  entertaining.  But  the  next  is  a 
point  that  you  must  note  without  fail. 

If  the  reader's  interest  in  any  particular  part  of 
your  narrative  will  depend  upon  an  understanding  of 
a  bit  of  mechanism  or  a  scientific  theory,  you  must  be 
careful  to  supply  the  information  beforehand.  How- 
ever trite  to  a  mechanic  or  a  scientist  the  principle 
may  be,  you  must  not  assume  that  the  casual  reader 
knows  it.  He  probably  does  not  know  it,  or  if  he  does, 
more  than  likely  he  has  forgotten  it.  On  the  other  hand, 
you  must  not  appear  to-  be  selfraSsertively  instructing 
him.    What  you  can  do  is  this :  you  can  politely  seem 


.   THE,  INGBNIOUS^ASTONISHING  OKOUP  199 

to  be  recalling  something  to  his  memory,  and  can  thus 
make  the  point  clear,  so  that  your  future  use  of  it  will 
not  fall  flat. 

To  add  a  semblance  of  reality^  it  will  be  permissible 
to  employ  a  few  technical  terms;  but  these  also  must 
be  indisputably  clear  in  meaning,  and  their  use  must 
not  be  pedantic.  You  should  study,  however,  to  put 
into  the  mouths  of  your  characters  the  vocabulary  that 
would  be  actually  used  by  the  kind  of  people  you 
represent. 

Gtenial  huriior  is  a  fliae  asset  to  a  writer  of  this  type 
of  narrative.  If  you  can  be  artistically  serious  and 
philosophically  gay  at  the  same  time  you  will  not  fail 
to  please.  The  relationship  of  stories  of  scientific  dis- 
covery and  mechanical  invention  to  imaginary  voyages 
is  testified  to  by  the  reader's  expectation  of  a  display 
of  wit.  But  in  the  scientific,  ridicule  is  softened  down 
to  genial  logic.  Although  the  aim  in  this  kind  of  nar- 
rative is  good  construction  rather  than  character^ketch* 
ing,  yet  every  neat  touch  of  portraiture  that  you  can 
add  will  help  draw  your  composition  away  from- the 
mere  exercise  and  toward  the  literary  production. 

If  you  should  choose  your  theory  in  the  realm  of  art,  you 
would  by  that  very  choice  raise  your  story  above  the  ordi-^- 
nary — I  mean  to  say,  of  course,  you  would  if  you  knew 
anything  about  art.  Mr.  Alexander  Wilson  Drake  knows 
a  great  deal  about  art  and  has  given  us,  besides  many  other 
beautiful  surprises  in  Saini  Nicholas  and  the  Century, • 
some  narratives  embodying  exquisite  theories  of  -shadow 
and  color. 


200  TYPES  (OT  PROSE  NARRATIVES 


The  Curious  Vehicle 

It  was  midnight  in  early  Deeember.  A  dense  silver 
mist  hid  the  sleeping  city,  the  streetJamps  gave  a  faint 
yellow  glimmer  through  the  almost  impenetrable  gloom, 
the  air  was  like  the  cold  breath  from  the  dying,  the  fog 
hanging  in  great  drops  on  my  clothing.  Stray  policemen 
had  taken  refuge  in  sheltering,  doorways,  and  my  own  foot- 
steps echoed  with  unfamiliar  and  uncanny  sound  down  the 
long  street — the  only  sound  that  broke  the  midnight  still- 
ness, save  the  hoarse  whistles  of  wandering  and  belated 
ferryboats  on  the  distant  river. 

As  I  emerged  from  a  narrow  street  into  the  main 
thoroughfare,,  my  shivering  attention  was  attracted  to  a 
curious  covered  vehicle  standing  in  the  bright  glare  of  an 
electric  light.  It  was  neither  carriage  nor  wagon,  but  an 
odd,  strongly  made  affair,, painted  olive  green,  with  square 
windows  in  the  sides,  reaching  from  just  above  the  middle 
of  the  roof,  and  a  smaller  window  in  the  back  near  the 
top.  On  each  side  of  the  middle  window  were  two  panels 
of  glass.  From  the  middle  window  only  a  dim  light  shone, 
like  the  subdued  light  from  a  nurse's  lamp.  On  the  seat  in 
front,  underneath  a  projecting  hood,  sat  a  little  old  black 

Reprinted  by  permission  of  the  Century  Company. 


THE  I^^GENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GBOUP  ^1 

man  wrapped  in  a  buffalo^robe  and  a  great  fur  coat  partly 
covered  with  a  rubber  cape  or  mackintosh,  and  with  a  fur 
cap  pulled  down  over  his  ears.  The  horse  was  heavily 
blanketed,  and.  also  well  protected  with  rubber  covers. 
Both  man  and  beast  waited  with  utnquestioning  patience. 
Both  seemed  lost  in  reverie  or  sleep* 

With  chattering  teeth  1  stood,,  wondering  what  could  be 
going  Ofl  in  that  queer  box-like  wagon  at  that  time  of  night. 
The  silence  was  Qppresfiive.  There  stood  the  dimly  lighted 
wagon ;  there  stood  the  horse ;  there  sat  the  negro— and  I 
the  OBily  observer*  of  this  queer  vehicle. 

I  stepped  cautiously  to  the  side  of  the  wagon,  and 
listened.  Not  a  sound  from  within.  Shivering  and 
benumbed,  I,  'too,  like  the  policemen,  took  refuge  in  a  door- 
way, and  waited  and  watched  for  some  sound  or  sign  from 
that  mysterious  interior*  I  was  too  fond  of  adventure  to 
give  it  up.  It  seemed  to  me  that  hours  passed  and  I  stood 
unrewarded.  Just  as  I  was  reluctantly  leaving,  much 
chagriilijed  to  find  that  I  had  waited  in  vain,  I  saw,  thrown 
against  the  window  for  a  few  moments  only,  a  curious 
enlarged  shadow  of  a  man's  head.  It  seemed  to  wear  a 
kind  of  tam-o'-shanter,  below  which  was  a  shade  or  visor 
sticking  out  beyond  the  man's  face  like  the  gigantic  beai 
of  a  bird.  A  mass,  of  wavy  hair  and  beard  sho\*'«d  under- 
neath the  cap.  Suddenly  the  shadow  disappeared,  much  to 
my  diflappoiutment,  and  although  I  watched  in  the  fog  and 
dampness  for  half  an  hour  logger,  it  did  not  again  appear. 

I  wandered,  home,  puzded.  and  speculating,  but  deter- 
mined that  I  would  wait  until  morning  if  I  were  ever 
fortunate  enough  to  come  across  the  vehicle  again.  Weeks 
passed  before  the  opportunity  occurred,  and  even  then,  had 
it  not  been  tot  a  very  singular  incident,  I  doubt  if  I  should 


202  TYPES  OP  PBOSE  NARBATIVES 

ever  have  fathomed  the  mystery  of  the  curionB  vehicle. 

It  was  Christmas  eve,  the  night  bitterly  cold.  I  had 
clothed  myself  in  my  thickest  ulster.  My  feet  were  incased 
in  arctics,  my  hands  in  warm  fur  gloves,  and  with  rough 
Scotch  cap  I  felt  sure  I  could  brave  the  coldest  night.  Thus 
equipped,  I  started  out,  and  when  I  returned  at  midnight 
in  the  banning  of  a  whirling,  almost  blinding  snow- 
storm, the  Christmas  chimes  were  ringing,  and  the  whole 
air  seemed  filled  with  Christmas  cheer.    . 

Turning  a  comer,  I  discovered  the  vehicle  in  the  same 
place  and  position.  This  time,  as  I  had  before  resolved,  I 
would  wait  until  morning  if  necessary.  So  I  began  pacing 
up  and  down  the  sidewalk  in  front  of  the  vehicle,  taking 
strolls  of  five  or  ten  minutes  apart,  and  then  returning.  I 
walked  until  I  was  almost  exhausted.  In  spite  of  my  heavy 
ulster  I  began  to  feel  chilly,  so  I  again  took  refuge  in  the 
doorway  of  a  building  opposite. 

Should  I  give  it  up,  I  asked  myself,  after  waiting  so 
long?  I  stood  debating  the  question.  No,  I  would  wait 
a  little  longer ;  so,  puffing  my  pipe,  I  shivered,  and  watched 
for  developments.  At  last  I  was  about  determined  that  I 
must  go  or  perish,  when  suddenly  I  saw  through  the  blind- 
ing snow  the  shadow  of  a  pair  of  hands  appear  at  the  dimly 
lighted  window,  adjusting  a  frame  or  inner  saah.  Yon  can 
imagine  my  interest  in  the  proceedings; 

Just  at  this  moment  a  street  sparrow,  numb  with  the 
cold,  and  crowded  from  a  window-blind  by  its  companions, 
dropped,  half  falling,  half  flying,  to  the  sidewalk  directly  in 
front  of  the  window  of  the  vehicle.  It  sat  blinking  in  the 
bright  rays  of  the  electric  light,  quite  bewildered,  turning 
its  little  head  first  one  way,  then  the  other.  In  the  mean- 
time the  shadows  of  the  two  hands  were  still  visible.     The 


THE  INGENIOUS- ASTONISHING  GBOUP  203 

sparrow,  probably  attracted  by  the  light  and  the  movement 
of  the  hands,  suddenly  flew  up,  not  striking  the  glass,  but 
hovering  with  a  quick  motion  of  the  wings  directly  in  front 
of  the  window,  its  magnified  shadow  thrown  on  it  by  the 
rays  of  the  electric  light.  Then  the  bird  dropped  to  the 
ground.  The  occupant  was  evidently  much  startled  by  the 
large  shadow  coming  so  suddenly  and  at  such  a  time  of 
night.  The  shadow  of  his  hands  quickly  disappeared,  and 
so  did  the.  frame*  In  another  moment  the  door  of  the 
vehicle  opened,  giving  me  a  glimpse  of  a  cozy  and  remark- 
able interior.  It  seemed,  in  contrast  with  the  cold  and 
storm  without^  filled  with  warmth  and  sunshine.  It  was 
like  a  pictorial  little  room  rather  than  the  inside  of  a  wagon 
or  carriage.  The  occupant  looked  out  in  a  surprised, 
excited,  and  questioning  way,  as  much  as  to  say,  "What 
could  that  have  been?^^  His  whole  manner  implied  that 
he  had  been  disturbed. 

This  was  my  opporttmity,  and,  seizing  it  instantly,  I' 
walked  boldly  to  the  door  of  the  vehicle,  and  said,  "It  was 
a  little  yarrow  benumbed  with  the  cold,  that  fluttered 
down  to  the  sidewalk,  where  it  lay  for  a  moment,  until, 
probably  attracted  by  the  light,  it  hovered  for  a  few  seconds 
before  your  window,  then  fell  to  the  ground  again." 

I  felt  the  man  eying  me  intently,  studying  me  with  a 
most  searching  glance.  Was  he  in  doubt  as  to  my  sin- 
cerity ?  Was  it  a  hidden  bond  of  sympathy  between  us  that 
made  him  suddenly  relent  and  invite  me  to  enter  his  ve- 
hicle? What' else  could  have  prompted  him?  For  my  own 
part,  I  instinctively  felt  for  the  man,  without  knowing 
why,  a  deep  pity. 

"Please  step  inside,'^  he  said ;  "it  is  cold." 

And  so,  at  last,  I  was  really  admitted,  invited  into  the 


J 


304  TYPES  OP  PKOSE  NARRATIVES 

little  interior — ^that  little  interior  which  had  piqued  my 
curiosity  for  so  long  a  time*  Yes,  I  was  admitted  at  last, 
and  now  had  a  chance  to  look  about,  and  to  study  the  gen- 
eral appearance  of  the  occupant  as  he  moved  over  for  me 
to  sit  beside  him  on  the  roomy,  luxurious  seat.  What 
a  curious  personality!  He  was  a  tall,  raw*boned  man  of 
strong  character.  His  soft,  gray  beard  and  hair  made  a 
marked  contrast  to  the  dark  surroundings.  Now  I  under- 
stood the  shadow  which  I  had  seen  thrown  on  the  window 
for.  a  few  seconds.  He  wore  a  tam-o'-shanter  capi,  and  be- 
neath it,  to  protect  his  eyes  from  the  lamp-light,  a  large 
visor,  or  shade,  which  threw  his  entire  face  into  deep 
shadow,  giving  him  the  look  of  a  painting  by  an  old  master. 
He  had  on  a  loose  coat  of  some  rough  material.    * 

Surely  the  interior  of  no  conveyance  could  be  more  inter- 
esting than  this.  In  the  front,  just  back  of  the  driver,  were 
two  square  windows  with  sliding  wooden  shutters,  and  be- 
tween the  two  was  a  little  square  mirror.  Above  these  was 
a  rod,  from  which  hung  a  dark-green  cloth  curtain  which 
could  be  drawn  at  will.  Underneath  was  a  chest,  or  cabi- 
net, of  shallow  drawers  filling  the  entire  width  of  the  car- 
riage, with  small  brass  rings  .by  which  to  pull  them  out. 
On  top  of  this  cabinet  stood  several  clear  glass  jars  half 
filled  with  pure  water,  TheriB  were  two  or  three  oil-lamps 
with  large  shades  hung  in  brackets  with  sockets  like 
steamer-lamps,  only  one  of  which  was  lighted.  Underneath 
the  seat  was  a  locker.  On  the  floor  of  the  conveyance, 
along  its  four  sides,  were  oblong  bars  of  iron,  and  in  the 
center  was  a  warm  fur  rug.  One  side  only  of  the  carriage 
opened.  On  the  side  opposite  the  door  was  a  rack  reaching 
from  the  window  to  the  floor,  in  which  stood  six  or  eight 
light  but  strongly  made  frames,  over  which  was  stretched 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GKOUP  205 

the  thinnest  parchment-like  paper.  The  top  of  the  vehicle 
was  tufted  and  padded.  The  prevailing  color  was  dark 
green.  In  shape  it  was  somewhat  longer  and  broader  than 
the  usual  carriage.  There  was  a  small  revolving  circular 
ventilator  in  front,  over  the  mirror,  which  could  be  opened 
or  closed  at  will,  and  which  oould  also  be  used  by  the  occu- 
pant for  conversing  with  the  driver. 

The  man  arose,  and,  opening  the  ventilator,  told  the 
coachman  to  drive  on.  Meanwhile  I  enjoyed  the  wonderful 
effect  of  the  little  interior — its  rich  gloom,  the  strong  light 
from  the  shaded  lamp  which  was  thrown  over  the  floor, 
tiie  bright  electric  light  gleamiiig  through  the  falling  snow 
into  the  window  on  my  left. 

The  night,  being  so  disagreeable,  made  the  interior  seem 
very  bright  and  comfortable  by  contrast,  as  the  man  closed 
the  sliding  wooden  shutters,  separating  us  entirely  from 
the  snowstorm  without.  There  Was  an  artificial  warmth 
which  I  could  not  understand,  'and  with  it  all  a  sense  of 
security  and  •  ccBsiness*  The  stranger's  manner  was  both 
gentle  and  reassuring.  We  rode  in  silence  over  the  rough 
pavement  until  we  reached  the  smooth  asphalt.  Then  he 
began : 

"I  do  not  consider  myself  superstitious,  but  somehow  I 
don't  like  it — ^that  little  bird  hovering  in  front  of  my  win^ 
dow.  It  seems  like  a  bad"  omen,  and  it  was  a  shadow  which 
startled  me.  My  life  seems  haunted  with  shadows,  and 
they  always  bring  misfortune  to  me." 

We  were  both  silent  f-or  a  time,  when  he  went  on :  "How 
curious  life  isl  Here  am  I  riding  with  you,  .a  total 
stranger,  long  past  midnight.  You  are  the  first  I  have 
ever  admitted  into  this  wagon,  with  the  exception  of  my 
faithful  Cato,  who  is  driving.     If  one  could  only  see 


206  •      TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NARRATIVES 

from  the  beginning  how  strangely  one's  life  is  to  be 
ordered. '* 

The  stranger's  voice  was  rich  and  deep.  I  hoped  lie 
would  continue  so  that  I  might  get  some  idea  of  him  and 
his  peculiar  mode  of  life,  and  What  was  going  on  night 
after  night  in  this  interior.    I  waited  for  him  to  proceed. 

^Tlave  you  known  trouble  or  sorrow  in  your  life?"  he 
asked. 

'TTes/'  I  replied;  "I  have  lost  nearly  all  who  were  dear 
to  me  in  this  round  world.'' 

"Then/'  said  he,  "I  will  tell  you  my  story  with  the  hope 
that  it  will  be  both  understood  and  appreciated.  I  loved 
from  childhood  a  charming  girl,  sweet  and  pure.  I  need 
not  go  into  the  detail  of  all  that  boyish  love,  but  in  my 
early  manhood  and  her  early  womanhood  we  were  married 
— and  what  a  sweet  bride  she  was ! 

"We  lived  in  an  old  white  farmhouse  in  a  village  near 
the  great  city — a  beautiful  place,  a  long,  low,  two-story- 
and-attic,  farmhouse,  probably  fifty  or  sixty  years  old. 
How  well  I  can  see  it — ^its  sloping  roof,  the  extension,  the 
quaint  doorway  with  side-lights  and  with  a  window  over 
the  top,  the  front  porch  with  graceful  shaped  newds,  the 
long  piazza  running  the  entire  length  of  the  extension, 
great  chimneys  at  each  end,  and  enormous  pine-trees  in 
front  of  the  house !  The  house  stood  on  a  little  elevation, 
with  terraced  bank,  and  with  a  pretty  fence  inclosing  it. 
Beyond  was  an  old  well  with  lattice-work  sides  and  door, 
and  a  pathway  trodden  by  the  foot  of  former  occupants, 
long  since  dead.  In  front  of  the  house  were  circular  beds 
of  old-time  flowers — sweet-williams,  lad/s-slippers,  lark- 
spur, and  foxglove.  At  the  rear,  great  banks  of  tiger-lilies 
threw  their  delicate  blue  shadows  against  the  white  surface 


THE  IXGENIOUSASTONISHING  GROUP  207 

of  our  little  home.  In  one  corner  of  our  garden  we  had 
left  tlie  weeds  to  ^ grow  Ivucuriautly,  like  miniature  forest 
trees,  and  found  much  pleasure  in  studying  their  beiautilul 
forms.  How  fine  they  looked  in  silhouette  again&t  the 
sTinset  sky  I  On  one  side  of  the  old-fashioned  doorway 
were  shrubs  and  a  rose-of-Sharon  tree,  and  on  the  other, 
honeysuckle  and  syringa-^bushes.  There  were  also  many 
kinds  of  fruit  and  shade^rees. 

'^'^How  happily  we  walked  up  and  down  the  shady  lanes 
of  that  little  village !  For  us  the  birds  sanig  sweetly.  We 
took  delight,  in  our  flowers  and  everything  about  us.  In 
the  evening  we  would  enjoy  the  sunsets,  returning  home 
arm  in  arm  in  the  afterglow,  to  sit  in  the  cool  of  the 
evening  on  the  piazza  and  .to  listen  to  the  wind  -as  it,  sighed 
through  the  pines.  What  music  they  made  for  us!  We 
compared  it  with  what  poets  of  all  ages  had  sung  of  them, 
and  went  to  siieep>  lulled  to  rest  by  thfe  wind  through  their 
soft  boughs.^* 

He  paused  again,  evidently  thinking  of  the  happy  time* 
*^How  can  I  tell  you,"  he. resumed,  "of  the  .life  that  wept 
on  in  that  simple  old  farmhouse?  Our  pleasant  vood-fire 
on  the  hearth ;  a  few  photographs  from  the  old  masters  on 
the  walls;  our  favorite  books  of  poetty  and  fiction^  which 
we  read  together  during  the  l<mg  winter  evenings,  while 
the  pine-tr^es  sighed  outside,  and  all  yrm  so  comfortable 
and  cozy  within;  or  the  lovely  walks  in  spring  and  sum- 
mer, through  the  bywayis  of  the  pretty  little  village,  with 
its  hedgerows,  blackberries,  and  wild  flowers.  How  we 
watched  for  the  first  violets,  and  what  joy  the  early  blos- 
soms gave  us!  What  pleasure  we  took  in  those  delightful 
years,  and  how  smoothly  our  lives  ran  on !  Each  day  I 
went  to  the  city,  and  was  always  cheered  by  the  thought 


208  TYPES  or  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

that  my  sweet  wife  would  be  at  the  station  to  meet  me. 
How  pure  she  looked  in  the  summer  evening,  clad  in  her 
thin  white  dresses,  with  a  silver  fan  and  brooch,  her  dark 
hair  and  eyes  like  those  of  a  startled  fawn ! 

*^ell,  I  need  not  dwell  longer  on  all  this.  It  was  only 
for  a  few  short  years,  when  one  cruel,  oold  day,  about  the 
happy  Christmas-time,  she  was  taken  ill,  and  grew  steadily 
worse,  and  all  that  could  be  done  for  hier  would  not  save 
her.  She  died.  I  can  see  her  now — ^her-dark  hair  laid 
back  on  the  pillow,  and  the  peaceful,  happy  smile  on  her 
face.  We  buried  her  beneath  the  snow,  in  the  old  grave- 
yard overlooking  the  river,  and  I  went  home  broken- 
hearted.^' 

I  heard  the  poor  fellow  sigh,  and  for  a  time  he  was 
silent  as  the  carriage  went  on  through  the  snow.  "What 
can  be  the  connection  of  this  queer  craft  with  what  he  is 
telling  me  ?"  I  thought.    When  hfe  resumed,  he  said : 

"For  months  I  tried  to  live  on  in  the  little  house,  but 
life  became  terrible.  In  the  evenings,  as  I  sat  by  the  plea- 
sant log-fire,  I  would  imagine  I  heard  h^r  footsteps  on  the 
stairs,  and  her  voice  calling  me.  I  did  my  best  to  conquer 
my  grief,  but  it  was  of  no  use.  The  light  seemed  gone 
out  of  my  life.  At  last  I  could  stand  it  no  longer,  and  I 
moved  all  my  worldly  possessions  to  another  house  in  the 
same  village.  I  could  not  bear  to  think  oi  going  away 
from  the  place  entirely. 

*^hen  the  springtime  came  again,  and  the  lovely  flowers 
were  in  bloom,  and  the  birds  were  singing  their  sweet 
songs ;  when  the  wind  breathed  softly  through  the  pine- 
trees,  and  she  was  gone,  the  sunsets  were  in  vain,  and  all 
nature  seemed  mourning.  After  this  I  busied  myself  with 
all  kinds  of  occupation,  but  without  success.    life  became 


THE  INGENIOUS  ASTONISHING  GROUP  209 

sadder  and  sadder,  until  finally  in  despair  I  took  a  foreign 
trip.  I  traveled  far  and  wide,  but  lalways  with  the  Bame 
weary  despondency  and'  gloom.  The  image  of  my  loved  one 
was  always  with  me.  Nothing  in  life  satisfied  me.  I 
wandered  through  country  after  country,  looking  at  the 
old  masters,  grand  churches,  listening  to  cathedral  music, 
but  always  before  me  was  the  same  picture — the  old,  white 
farm-^house,  the  great  mournful  pines,  and  with  it  all  the 
mernory  of  the  sweet  life  now  departed,  for  which  nothing 
could  make  amends.^^ 

Then  he  was  silent,  and  as  we  drove  over  the  soft,  snow- 
covered  asphalt  he  became  absorbed  in  thought. 

^* After  a  year  or  so  of  restless  travel  I  drifted  back  to 
my  own  country  and  to  the  little  village.  Night  after 
night  I  wandered  around  the  empty  house  where  we  had 
lived,  and  through  the  little  garden,  and  would  stand  at 
midnight  listening  to  the  sad  sighing  of  the  wind  through 
the  pine-trees,  which  to  me  sounded  like  a  requiem  for  the 
dead.  Many  a  moonlight  night  have  I  stood  gazing  into 
the  windows,  and  imagined  her  looking  out  at  me  as  in 
the  happy  days  of  old,  and  I  would  walk  up  and  down  the 
path  thinking,  oh,  how  sadly!  of  the  times  we  used  to 
return  by  it  from  our  evening  walks. 

^Tinally  the  little  village  became-  hateful  to  me.  I  could 
endure  it  no  longer,  and  I  shook  its  dust  from  my  feet. 
With  reluctance  I  moved  away  into  the- heart  of  the  great 
city,  but  with  the  same  longing  in  my  heart — ^the  same 
despair.  I  hunted  up  my  two  faithful  black  servants  who 
had  lived  with  us  for  several  years.  I  bought  a  house  in 
the  old  part  of  the  city,  and  there  we  now  live,  and  I  am 
well  cared  for  by  them.  Let  me  read  you  portions  of  a 
letter  from  her — one  of  the  last  she  wrote/'  and  he  took 


210  TYPES  or  PBOSB  NAEBATIVES 

from  his  pocket  a  little  morocco  book  with  monogram,  in 
silver  script  letters.  He  rose  and  asked  the  driver  to  stop, 
and,  turning  the  light  np,  said :  "This  will  give  you  some 
idea  of  the  sweet  life,  with  its  love. of  nature,  that  went 
on  in  and  about  that  little  cottage.  The  letter  was  written 
to  me  when  I  was  in  another  city/'    He  read  as  follows : 

"My  dear,  I  can  hardly  tell  you  how  lovely  the  shadows 
looked  as  I  strolled  around  our  little  house  this  evening, 
and  was  filled  with  delight  by  their  beautiful  but  evasive 
forms.  To  begin  with,  you  remember  the  exquisite,  almost 
silhouette,  shadow  of  the  rose-of-Sharon  bush  by  the  front 
door.  I  gave  it  a  long  study  to-night.  Its  fine>  decorative 
character  reminded  me  of  a  Japanese  drawing,  only  it  is 
far  more  delicate  and  subtle.  If  this  could  be  painted  in 
soft  gray  on  the  door-posts  and  around  the  little  side  win- 
dows, how  it  would  beautify  our  plain  dwelling,  and  what 
a  permanent  reminder  it  would  be  of  omx  delightful  sum- 
mer days ! 

"But  if  I  spend  too  much  time  on  a  single  shadow,  I 
shall  have  no  room  left  to  tell  you  of  the  greater  ones  we 
have  enjoyed  together.  .  .  .  From  the  path  near  the  gate, 
and  looking  toward  the  house,  I  saw  to-night,  and  seemed 
to  feel  for  the  first  time,  the  wonderful  tenderness  of  the 
great  shadow  which  nearly  covers  the  end  and  side  of  our 
home.  How  mysterious  our  kitchen  became,  with  its  shed 
completely  inclosed  in  velvety  gloom,  suggesting  both  sor- 
row and  tragedy;  while  the  other  end  of  the  house  was 
covered  with  fantastic  forms^  soft  and  ethereal;  and  with  a 
delicacy  indescribable.  .  .  .  But  when  the  moon  €ame  up, 
and 'the  soft  shadows  of  the  pines  were  cast  on  the  pure 
white  weather-boards  of  our  little  home, — the  shadows  of 
our  own  pines,  the  pines  we  love  so  well,  and  through  whose 


THE  INaBNIOUS-ASTONISHiNG  GROUP  211 

branches  we  have  heard  music  sweet  and  low,  soft  and  sad, 
— ^then  I  thought  of  you  as  I  studied  their  masses  tossing 
so  gently,  their  movement  almost  imperceptible,  and  I 
longed  for  you  as  I  studied  their  moving  forms,  their  rich- 
ness, variety,  and  texture^-^for  you  tell  me  of  their  artistic 
beauty — ^your  delicate,  poetic  appreciation  of  their  loveli- 
ness. .  .  .  And  at  last,  may  the  sun  and  moon  shine 
brightly  and  cast  beautiful  shadows  among  and  over  the 
tombstones  for  you  and  for  me,  my  dear,  and  may  a  blessed 
hope  make  the  sunset  of  life  glorious  for  us  both/^ 

When  he  had  finished  readings  and  had  asked  the  driver 
to  drive  on,  he  became  absorbed  and  silent,  and  I  thought^ 
"How  strange  to  be  riding  through  the  streets  of  the  city 
after  midnight  in  a  whirling  snow-storm  with  a  stranger, 
in  a  vehicle  so  remarkable,  listening  to  such  a  pathetic  love- 
story,  such  a  beautiful  description  of  quiet  domestic  life/* 
It  was  a  charming  idyl. 

"You  can  get  an  idea  from  this,"  he  said,  "of  the  de- 
lightful, contented  life  which  went  on  in  the  little  cottage,'* 
and  he  sat  holding  the  book  in  his  hands  as  though  he  were 
living  it  aU  over  again,  while  the  bright  silver  serif  t  mono- 
gram gleamed  and  glistened  an  the  cover  until  he  turned 
dovm  the  light,  and  for  a  time  we  drove  over  the  smooth 
asphalt  in  utter  silence. 

"Do  you  wonder,"  he  suddenly  asked,  "that  the  shadow 
of  that  little  bird  has  caused  me  uneasiness,  and  yet  do  you 
not  see  that  almost  the  last  letter  she  wrote  to  me  was  filled 
with  omens,  shadows?  It  is  but  natural  that  I  should 
have  some  filing  about  it — and  yet,  why  should  I  care? 
I  have  only  myself  and  my  two  old  servants  who  could  be 
affected  by  it,  bad  or  good.  For  myself,  my  only  desire 
is  to  live  long  enough  to  complete  my  work;  then  I  am 


212  TYPES  OP  PB08B  NAKBATIVES  \ 

both  ready  and  willing  to  go.  I  shall  welcome  death  with 
delight/' 

I  had  become  so  absorbed  in  his  story  that  I  had  for- 
gotten all  about  my  surroundings;  but  now  as  he  paused 
I  again  asked  myself  what  strange  connection  had  this  sad 
story,  and  the  letter,  and  all  that  he  had  been  telling  me, 
with  the  wagon;  for  I  was  sure  that  in  some  queer  way 
the  story  would  help  to  explain  it  all. 

"While  in  Europe,"  he  went  on,  "I  studied  the  old  mas- 
ters a  great  deal,  particularly  the  halos  and  nimbuses  sur- 
rounding the  heads  of  the  saints.  I  cannot  begin  to  tell 
you  how  interesting  they  became  to  me.  I  was  struck  with 
the  exquisite  workmanship  bestowed  on  many  of  them,  but 
fine  as  they  were,  they  never  came  up  to  my  idea  of  what 
a  halo  should  be.  As  my  loved  one  was  so  pure  and  gentle, 
I  always  thought  of  her  as  a  saint  (and  indeed  she  is 
such),  and' I  would  become  interested  and  imagine  what 
kind  of  halo  I  would  surround  her  with  if  I  were  painting 
her— not  one  of  the  halos  of  the  old  masters  seemed  fine 
enough  or  ethereal  enough  for  her.  I  had  always  been 
fond  of  frt,  and  had  been  considered  a  fair  amateur  artist. 
One  evening  after  I  had  moved  to  the  city,  and  while 
riding  in  a  cab.  (oh,  how  gloomy  I)  on  a  snowy  evening 
something  like  this  very  night,  I  looked  through  the  win- 
dow at  an  electric  light,  and  there  I  saw  the  loveliest  halo, 
in  .miniature.  Such  tints  I  A  heavenly  vision ! .  I  thought 
of  the  old  masters,  of  the  beautiful  Siena  Madonnas,  and 
with  sudden  joy  I  thought:  *Why  should  I  not  paint  the 
image  of  her  I  love?  Why  should  I  not  clothe,  her  in 
Madonna-like  robes,  with. a  halo  which  coiild  come  only  out 
of  the  nineteenth  century?  Why  should  she  not  have  a 
halo  far  outshining  and .  far  surpassing  in  beauty   halo 


THE  INaENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GROUP  213 

ever  painted  by  mortal  man?'  I  rode  nearly  the  whole 
night  through,  evidently  to  the  despair  of  the  driver,  as  I 
repeatedly  asked  him  to  stop  opposite  electric  lights  and 
street-lamps. 

"Prom  that  day  I  had  a  new  purpose  in  life.  I  had  this 
wagon  built  just  as  you  see  it.  For  months  I  thought  of 
it.  Over  and  over  again  I  drew  my  plans  before  the  vehicle 
was  actually  constructed.  Then  I  began  my  work.  Old 
Cato,  who  is  driving,  sits  night  after  night,  unmindful  of 
the  cold,  wrapped  in  his  great  fur  coat,  and  he  waits  and 
I  woric  through  the  midnight  hours  to  conceive  and  make 
real  the  new  Madonna." 

What  a  strange,  subtle  connection  the  whole  thing  had, 
as  he  suddenly  tapped  on  the  small  window  and  we  stopped 
directly  in  front  of  an  electric  light!  As  he  opened  the 
sliding  shutter  I  s^w,  through  the  frosted  window  and  the 
feathery  snow,  such  a  vision  of  lovliness — a  little  halo 
that  could  scarcely  be  described  in  words.  It  was  like  a 
miniature  circular  rainbow,  intensified  and  glorified  by  the 
glittering  rays  of  the  penetrating  electric  light 

^^What  could  be  hiore  beautiful  than  that  ?  Is  n't  it  ex- 
quisite?" he  asked.  "Did  ever  painted  saint  have  a  halo 
like  that?'' 

I  held  my  breath,  for  I  had  never  seen  anything  so 
beautiful. 

*^I  have  worked  at  it  for  a  long  time.  I  have  not  yet 
accomplished  it,  but  I  hope  to.  I  am  coming  nearer  to  it 
every  night  in  which  I  can  work.  There  are  not  many 
during  the  winter;  the  conditions  of  atmosphere  and  tem- 
perature must  be  just  right.  On  foggy  nights,  or  when 
the  air  is  filled  with  light,  flying  snow — these  are  the  nights 
in  which  the  little  halos  glow  around  the  electric  lights, 


214  TYPES  OP  PBOSE  NARBATIVES 

street-lamps,  and  lights  in  ^how-windows.  Oh,"  he  said, 
^Hhey  fill  me  with  a  happiness  and  delight  I  cannot  de- 
scribe, as  I  try  all  kinds  of.  experiments  to  transfix  the 
beautiful  colors  of  their  delicate  rays! 

"Let  me  show  you,^'  he  went  on,  atid  he  lifted  one  of 
the  frames  which  I  have  already  described,  covered  with  a 
thin  parchment-like  paper.  This  he  carefully  buttoned 
to  a  groove  in  the  window.  On  the  surface  of  the  stretched 
parchment  the  little  halo  glowed  with  its  prismatic  tints, 
and  again  I  held  my  breath  at  the  beauty  of  it.  I,  too, 
was  becoming  a  halo-rworshiper.  Then  he  lifted  from  the 
rack  on  the  side,  and  held  up  to  the  light,  first  one  aud 
then  another  of  the  frames,  on  the  parchment  surface  of 
which  he  had  actually  traced  lines  of  color,  against  the 
gloom  beyond,  radiating  lines  crossing  and  re-crossing, 
glowing  with  rainbow  tints  seen  through  and  against  the 
window. 

"Do  you  know  anything  of  Frankenstein^s  wonderful 
Magic  Reciprocals,  sometimes  called  Harmonic  Ee- 
sponses?"^  he  asked.  "How  I  longed  for  his  marvelous 
power,  so  that  I  might  experiment  with  them.  But  they 
were  far  beyond  my  skill,  and  also,  perhaps,  too  scientific 

*The  Magic  Eeciprocals,  or  Harmonic  Responses,  were  dis- 
covered by  Gustavus  Frankenstein,  and  are  properly  draw^n  in 
color.  The  following  are  extracts  from  letters  received  from 
Mr.  Frankenstein,  to  whom  the  author  is  indebted  for  the  draw- 
ing which  appears  at  the  beginning  of  this  story:  ** Tomorrow 
morning  I  shaU  send  them.  They  are  most  lovely.  They 
are  halos,  if  ever  there  was  a  halo.  iSo  wonderfully  magical  are 
they  that  I  think  thou  wilt  modify  thy  language,  and  perhaps 
say  that  Frankenstein  produces  halos  almost,  if  not  quite,  to 
the  very  perfection.  Why,  they  seem  to  dazzle  and  bewilder 
like  the  very  sun  itself.  They  do  not  actually  emit  light,,  but 
they  look  like  the  soul  of  light.  More  like  beautiful  thoughts 
are  they,  spirits  of  loveliness,  than  like  anything  tangible.*' 
.     .     r     ''I  was  a  long  time  working  out  the  mathematical 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GBOUP  215 

and  geometric  for  my  purpose ;  and  bo  I  was  forced  to  dis- 
card them  and  begin  afresh  in  my  own  way.  I  have  had 
reasonable  success,  although  I  have  not  yet  reached  the 
purity  of  color  nor  the  brilliancy  that  I  wish.  I  do  not 
know  that  mortal  man  ever  can.  I  have  tried  all  sorts  of 
experiments — ^lines  of  silver  crossed  with  lines  of  gold; 
prismatic  threads  of  silk ;  and  now  I  have  abandoned  them 
all,  and  am  beginning  again,  perhaps  for  the  fortieth  time. 
But  if  I  aw  only  able  to  do  it,  nothing  can  give  me  greater 
happiness.    I  can  close  my  eyes  in  peace  at  last.** 

After  he  had  shown  me  his  experiments,  he  removed  the 
little  frame  from  the  window,  closed  the  sliding  shutter 
on  the  side,  and,  turning  the  circular  ventilator,  asked  the 
driver  to  drive  on. 

"!N'ow  for  an  extended  view/'  he  said,  and  he  opened  the 
shutter  of  one  of  the  front  windows,  and  then  of  the  other 
on  each  side  of  the  mirror.  What  a  vista  of  loveliness !  A 
long  perspective  of  glowing  halos,  vanishing  down  the 
street  through  the  flying  snow,  until  they  were  mere  specks 
of  light  in  the  distance.  The  whole  atmosphere  was  filled 
with  circular  rainbows,  and  again  he  dwelt  on  their  beauty. 

problem  of  the  perfectly  balanced  and  completely  symmetrical 
circular  harmonic  responses;  and  then  the  drawings  were  exe- 
euted  with  the  greatest  care  as  to  perfect  precision  and  aecu- 
ra,cy.''  .  .  .  ''Th^  little  round  white  spot  in  the  center 
imparts  an  animating  expression  to  the  whole  Response;  and 
now,  as  I  write,  it  occurs  to  me  very  forcibly  that  the  whole 
Response  looks  something  like — and  very  much  like — the  iris 
of  the  eye,  and  the  little  round  spot  in  the  center  is  the 
pupil.  If  the  iris  were  all  iris,  having  no  pupil  in  the  cen- 
ter, it  would  appear  expressionless  and  not  vividly  suggestive 
of  the  soul  of  life.  The  spot  in  the  center  may  be  looked  upon 
as  the  tangible  existence  or  thing  which  is  the  source  of  the 
surrounding  halo.  Again:  The  true  and  complete  Response — 
the  mathematical  assertion — has  the  animating  spot  in  the 
center. ' ' 


216  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

They  glowed  with  ultramarine,  with  delicate  green,  with 
gold  and  silver,  and  like  light  from  burnished  copper,  and 
our  little  vehicle  seemed  a  moving  palace  of  delight  as  we 
drove  on  through  the  blinding  storm.  Turning  into  one  of 
the  narrower  streets,  away  from  the  electric  lights,  we  saw 
the  long  line  of  receding  gas-lamps,  each  with  its  softly 
subdued  nimbus,  and  he  said  in  a  low  aind  gentle  voice, 
almost  a  whisper,  *The  street  of  halos." 

When  he  had  closed  the  shutters  again  he  said,  ^Ijet  me 
show  you  my  cabinet  of  colors  and  working  tools/*  He 
pulled  out  a  shallow  drawer,  and  there,  on  small  porcelain 
plaques  (the  kind  used  by  water-color  painters),  side  by 
side,  in  regular  order,  was  every  shade  of  red,  from  the 
faintest  pink  to  the  deepest  crimson.  He  opened  the  next 
drawer,  and  instead  of  the  red  was  an  arrangement  of 
blues,  from  delicate  turquoise  to  deepest  ultramarine.  In 
the  third  drawer  was  an  arrangement  of  yellows,  running 
from  Naples  to  deepest  cadmium. 

"I  deal  in  primary  colors,"  he  said,  ''for  what  would  you 
paint  rainbows  in  but  red,  blue,  and  yellow?" 

Then  he  opened  the  fourth  drawer,  and  there,  laid  with 
precision,  were  long-handled  brushes  from  the  finest  sable 
(mere  pin-points)  up  to  thick  ones  as  large  as  one's  finger. 
There  were  flat  ones  and  round  ones,  short  ones  and  long 
ones.  As  he  opened  the  fifth  drawer,  'Tor  odds  and  ends," 
he  said*  This  was  a  little  deeper  than  the  others,  and  in 
it  were  sponges  fine  and  coarse,  erasers,  scrapers,  and  boxes 
of  drawing-tacks  of  various  sizes.  In  the  last  drawer  were 
soft  white  rags  and  sheets  of  blotting-paper  of  assorted 
sizes. 

After  he  had  shown  me  the  contents  of  the  cabinet  he 
said,  "I  have  been  quite  disturbed  by  the  shadow  of  that 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTOOTSHING  GBOUP  JJI^ 

little  bird.  Will  you  join  me  in  a  glass  of  old  sherry?" 
He  opened  the  locker  underneath  the  seat^  and  brought  out 
an  odd-shaped  bottle,  which  he  unscrewed,  handing  me  a 
small,  thistle-shaped  glass  and  a  tin  box  containing 
crackers. 

"It  is  a  bad  night/'  he  said,  "a  Yery  bad  night.    I  fed 
it,  even  with  the  warmth  of  this  interior.    Those  long  barfe  , 
of  iron  are  filled  with  hot  water,  which  usually  keeps  me 
very  warm.'* 

Then  he  passed  through  the  ventilator,  to  the  driver, 
some  crackers  ind  sherry.  After  he  had  closed  it,  and  put 
away  the  bottle>  box,  and  glasses,  we  both  mused  a  long 
time,  the  halo^painter  completely  lost  in  reverie,  and  I 
thinking  of  the  undying  love  of  such  a  man— *ia  man  who 
could  love  but  one,  and  for  whom  no  other  eyes  or  voice, 
could  ever  metm  so  mruch.  With  him  love  was  an  all- 
absorbing  passion.  He  had  given  his  heart  without  reserve, 
and  for  him  no  oilier  love  could  ever  bloom  again.  I; 
thought  of  him  sitting,  night  after  night,  in  his  solitary 
vehicle  working  at  the  halo— a  new  halo  which  should  sur- 
round the  head  of  her  he  loved-  I  thought  of  him  in  the 
lonely  early  morning  hours,  working  at  a  nimbus  which 
was  far  to  outshine  in  beauty  and  delicacy  any  painted  or 
dreamed  of  by  God-fearing  saint-painters  of  Old. 

He  opened  the  shutters,  and  the  light  from  the  lamp 
began  to  grow  dimmer  as  the  early  mornipg  light  shone; 
faintly  through  the  windows.  I  noticed  the  deep  furrows 
of  care  and  sorrow  which  marked  his  strong,  pathetic  face,, 
purified  by  suffering  and  lighted  by  divine  hope — the  face 
of  one  who  lived  in  another  world,  and  fpr  whom  all  of 
life  was  centered  in  his  ideal — one  who  was  in  the  world, 
but  not  of  it. 


2ia  TYPES  OF  PKOSE  NASBATIVBS 

As  he  bade  me  good*by,  hie  face  beamed  in  the  early 
Christmas  morning  light  with  indescribable  tenderness; 
and  as  the  little  wagon  with  its  faithful  old  black  driver 
disappeared  through  the  snow,  I  thought  again  and  again 
of  the  beautiful,  touching  love  of  the  man  who  would  sit 
night  after  night  trying  to  realize  his  dream  of  beauty,  to 
clothe  in  the  garb  of  a  saint  the  form  of  her  he  loved. 

— ^Alexander  W.  Drake. 

The  Spyglass  of  the  Fast 

It  is  possible  for  a  man  to  have  two  hobbies*  Dr. 
Aukirt  demonstrated  the  fact.  No  one  would  have 
thought  that  the  quiet  man,  who  was  so  often  poring 
over  the  Egyptian  cases  at  the  British  Museum,  was  an 
optician ;  but  then  the  truth  is  apt  to  be  unsuspected. 
He  used  to  say  that  it  was  all  a  mistake — that  hie  was 
an  explorer  pure  and  simple,  but  that  he  explored  the 
pkst  and  the  heavens  instead  of  the  forest  and  rivers. 
At  any  rate,  an  archeologist  he  was^  and  a  noted  one 
too,  or  the  British  government  would  not  have  put  him 
at  the  head  of  the  expedition  to  excavate  the  ruins  of 
Karnac,  that  greatest  of  all  temples. 

The  men  had  gone  to  their  camp  as  usual,  but  Dr. 
Aukirt  remained  behind.  During  the  day  an  interest- 
ing inscription  had  been  uncovered,  and  the  moon  shone 
in  among  the  pillars  of  Kamac  before  the  explorer 
thought  of  leaving  the  scene  of  the  day's  work.  As  he 
turned  to  go,  he  noticed  a  slight  movement  at  his  feet, 
and  stopped.  A  tiny  stream  of  sand  was  sliding  slowly 
into  a  crevice  between  two  stones  in  the  pavement,  and 
was  disappearing  beneath  him.    He  seized  a  pick  and 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GROUP  gl9 

at  length  was  able  to  dislodge  the  block.  A  flight  of 
steps  led  down  into  the  darkness.  He  soon  stood  at  the 
foot  of  the  stairway  with  the  wealth  of  his  discovery 
about  him.  The  light  from  his  pocket  lamp  was  re- 
flected from  the  thousands  of  silver  points  in  the  ceiling 
of  lapis  lazuli  and  from  the  porphyry  pillars  with  their 
exquisite  capitols  of  lotus  leaves.  Under  a  frieze  of 
small  windows  was  a  divan  with  the  imprint  of  a  head  so 
plainly  visible  in  the  draperies  that  it  seemed  as  though 
the  sleeper  must  have  but  just  ai^isen,  but  the  fabric 
crumbled  to  dust  under  the  Doctor's  hand. 

At  the  other  side  of  the  room  was  a  table,  evidently 
a  student's  desk,  with  a  litter  of  writing  materials  and 
curious  instruments.  Across  an  unfinished  papyrus  lay 
a  brass  tube  with  a  lens  at  each  end.  Dr.  Aukirt  picked 
up  the  strajlge  telescope  and  instinctively  applied  it  to 
his  eye,  although  ha  was  convinced  that  he  should  be 
unable  to  see  anjiJiing,  for  the  body  of  the  glass  was  a 
double  curve,  like  a  much  elongated  S.  But  as  he  pointed 
the  lens  toward  the  divan,  a  priestly  figure  seemed  to  be 
sleeping  there,  and  this  room  brightened,  light  streamed 
in  through  the  windows  which  had  been  hidden  by  the 
sand  of'  hundreds  of  years,.  The  Doctor  looked  up;  ev- 
erjiihing  was  dusty  and  deserted. 

When  he  reached  the  open  air  again,  he.  saw  that 
the  sun  was  rising  away  at  the  rim  of  the  desert  ^  and 
once  more  he  looked  through  the  new-found  spy-glass. 
The  surface  of  the  Nile  that  had  teen  so  peaceful  a 
moment  ago,  was  aswarm  with  boats.  Figures  of  dusky 
slaves  with  sad  Hebraic  features  passed  and  repassed 
with  their  burdens.     He  turned  to  the  ruin  which  he 


•      TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NARBATIVES 

had  just  left,  and  behdd  a  stately  temple  with  the  sun- 
beams flashing  from  its  carved  and  polished  facade. 

The  puzzled  and  astonished  areheologist  i¥ent  to  his 
tent  with  his  treasures,  the  papyrus  and  the  glass,  and 
for  weeks  he  studied  them  that  he  might  learn  to  use 
the  instrument.  Sometimes  it  seemed  to  him  as  though 
his  search  were  to  be  rewarded,  but  the  truth  constantly 
eluded  him,  although  by  a  smaller  and  smaller  margin, 
or  BO  he  was  pleased  to  think.  One  day  he  brought  his 
glass  once  more  to  the  banks  of  the  Nile  near  Kamac. 
Victory  seemed  very  near  just  now.  Carefully  he 
opened  the  instrument  to  its  full  exten1>^^nd  saw  a 
savage  people  warring  with  each  other  on  the  peaceful 
river  bank.'  Then  came  a  stronger  tribe,  and  then  a 
stronger  still,  until  at  length  he  saw  the  mighty  pro- 
cession of  the  Pharaoh  coming  to  inspect  the  temple  of 
Karnac.  He  saw  the  rise  and  fall  of  nations:  the  slow 
march  of  the  ages  passed  before  his  vision  like  the  glid- 
ing of  a  dream.  The  Egyptian  had  written  truth: 
'*I  have  made  an  instrument  which  will  gather  up  the 
scattered  and  tanked  images  of  the  past,  and  focus  them 
upon  the  present. ' ' 

Appalled  at  the  magnitude  of  his  discovery,  Dr.  Au- 
kirt  stood  in  silence,  and  then  the  thought  came,  **  Vic- 
tory is  not  complete,  the  instrument  can  be  so  adjusted 
as  to  presage  the  future."  He  made  what  seemed  to 
him  the  necessary  changes;  but  when  he  attempted  to 
look  through  his  glass  again,  thete  was  no  light;  tii«  lens 
was  broken. 

— ^Hazel  Addle  Orcutt. 


THE  INGENIOUSASTONISHING  GBOUP  ggl 

Up  a  Water-Spout 

I  was  a  poor,  hard-working  sailor  on  a  fishing  smack 
plying  between  Nantucket  Island  and  Gape  God.  My 
parents  before  me  had  been  of  scanty  means,  living  from 
hand  to  moath,  and  I  was  compelled  early  in  life  to  pro- 
vide for  mysell  Naturally,  I  had  little  education;  that: 
is,  education  from  books ;  but  if  traveling  possesses  half 
the  iadvantages  attributed  to  it  in  that  line,  I  own  I 
most  be  the  best  educated  man — I  say  this  with  all  m^^I* 
esty — on  this  small  globe  of  ours. 

Once  a  year  the  eaptaius  of  the  several  boats  with 
their  respective  crews  made  a  more  extended  trip  down 
the  coast  for  pickerel.  This  year  with  the  lusual  com- 
pany of  fishing-craft  we  sailed  southward  toward  the 
Bahamas. 

Favorable  winds  hastened  our  journey  until  at  a 
point  just  off  Gape  Fear  we  ran  into  a  dead  calm.  For 
four  days  we  never  moved.  The  heat  was  scorching. 
The  boards  warped  and  cracked,  and  not  even  a  flapping 
sail  indicated  the  slightest  disturbanee  in  the  air.  All 
the  boats  had  dropped  anchor  within  hailiug  distance 
of  each  other,  so  with  the  aid  of  the  dories  to  carry  U3 
around  from  one  ship  to  another  we  passed  the  time 
quite  agreeably. 

On  the  fifth  morning^  however,  a  thick  rim  of  cloud 
covered  the  western  horizon  and  seemed  to  be  moving 
rapidly  toward  us.  Almost  in  the  center  of  this  cloud 
projected  a  small  point  of  mist.  It  grew  and  widened, 
then  shrank  back  to  half  its  size,  finally  running  down 
a  long,  slender  finger  until  it  reached  the  water.  In- 
stantly foam  and  spray  began  to  rise,  and  we  knew  that 


TYPES  or  PB08E  NAERATIVES 

we  were  in  the  path  of  a  water-spout.  All  anchors  had 
been  hoisted  and  the  captains  were  giving  hoarse  orders 
to  put  on  every  inch  of  sail.  But  there  seemed  to  be 
an  upper  current  that  was  carrying  that  water-spout 
right  among  us;  yet  we  were  still  becalmed  and  helpless. 

As  it  approached  it  grew  in  ciroumf erenoe  into  a 
huge  column  of  water,  foaming  and  swirling  in  a  hor- 
rible manner.  Every  man  rushed  for  the  cabin.  We 
tightly  closed  the  doors  and  windows.  Then — ^we  waited. 
The  boat  gave  a  sharp  twist  as  we  enter^  the  whirling 
pool,  and  a  great  wave  passed  over  us. 

Silently  we  sat  there  expecting  the  boat  to  be  swamped 
and  broken  into  bits.  But  this  is  far  from  what  really 
took  place ;  for  after  the  first  shock,  we  felt  the  boat  to 
be  rising.  Trembling :  and  cautious  we  peeped  out  of 
the  window.  All  the  other  boats  were  circling  around 
in  the  air  near  us,  and  were  rising  too.  We  seemed  to 
be  surrounded  by  a  hollow  cylinder  of  water,  also  ris- 
ing like  ourselves.  It  seemed  impossible,  and  yet  we 
were  forced  to  recognize  the.  fact  that  we  were  inside 
the  waterHspout,  and  the  suction  that  was  drawing  up 
the  water,  had  picked  our  vessel  up  bodily  and  was  car- 
rjdng  us— where f  Where,  indeed?  Miles  we  went. 
Finally  we  left  behind  the  column  of  water  which  had 
been  growing  thinner  and  thinner,  and  we  passed  swiftly 
through  clouds  and  mists.  Gradually  these  cleared  away 
and  the  earth  came  into  view.  For  three  months  our 
journey  lasted.  We  wandered  here  and  there  over  the 
earth  wherever  currents  bore  us.  Luckily,  we  hkd  an  ex- 
traordinarily large  supply  of  provisions  on  board. 

One  day  we  saw  a  dim  speck  in  the  distance  and  the 
watch  involuntarily  cried  out,  *'A  sail."    We  laughed, 


THE  INGBNI0U8-AST0NISHING  GROUP  223 

but  sure  enough,  within  a  few  hours,  another  hoat 
wheeled  up  along' side.  We  had  no  way  of  stopping,  so 
our  oommunication  was  short.  It  was  found  out  that 
they  had  met  the  same  fate  as  we,  and  had,  like  us,  proh- 
ably  been  reported  at  home  as  lost  at  sea.  They  said 
that  if  by  any  chance  we  should  return  to  earth,  we 
should  tell  their  friends  that  they  were  quite  happy, 
only,  were  weary  of  such  constant  travel,  but  must  con- 
tinue it,  they  supposed,  unless  sometime  in  their  course 
they  might  come  upon  another  water-spoilt  to  afford 
them  a  passage  to  earth  again.  And  I  might  add  here, 
if  we  had  not  been  thus  fortunate,  we  should  still  be 
journeying  monotonously  through  the  heavens. 

But  the  circumstance  of  all  our  trip  that  I  felt 
would  interest  you  most,  is  the  fact  that  we  saw  and 
talked  with  Captain  Anson.  You  remember  Captain  An- 
son, the  man  who  set  out  in  an  airshij)  to  find  the  South 
Pole  ?  Well,  he  has  found  it.  He  declares  .that  it  is  a 
veritable  Eden  to  which  man  can  gain  admittance  only 
by  passing  through  a  water-spout,  and  it  seems  that  his 
machine  was  thus  transported,  being  caught  in  a  spout 
while  crossing  an  inland  lake.  Also  he  wished  us  to 
tell  the  people  at  home  not  to  expect  his  return,  for,  he 
declares,  he  is  supremely  happy  and  has  found  a  place 
far  superior  in  climate  and  beauty  to  anything  yet  dis- 
covered on  the  earth.  There,  he  asserts  further,  and  we 
know  this  to  be  true  for  we  beheld  it  ourselves,  the  prob- 
lem of  supplying  energy  is  not  a  problem  at  all ;  for  as 
a  result  of  the  magnetic  force,  so  strong  everywhere 
there,  perpetual  motion  machines  are  used  entirely  for 
mechanical  purposes.  And  I  might  add  here  that  it 
was  only  through  this  magnetic  attraction  for  the  bolts 


224  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NARBATIVE8 

in  our  ship  that  we  were  able  to  stop  at  all.  But  here 
we  hovered  for  several  days  until  a  particularly  strong 
current  seized  the  boat  and  carried  us  on.  We  sped  from 
ocean  to  ocean,  time  and  time  again  until  we,  too,  were 
almost  in  despair  of  ever  seeing  the  earth  again,  except 
by  a  bird's-eye  view. 

But  one  cloudy  day,  as  we  were  shipping  quietly 
through  the  mist,  we  all  experienced  a  sensation  of  fall- 
ing. The  mist  began  to  grow  thicks,  and  we  were  again 
surrounded  by  curved  walls  of  rising  water.  We  were 
fiUed  with  a  sense  of  familiarity,  for  we  recognized  our 
water-spout.  Having  reached  the  bottom,  with  one  short 
dive  we  were  through  that  wall  of  water,  and  were  sail- 
ing swiftly  across  the  Atlantic  in  an.  opposite  direction 
from  the  water-spout,  which  was  fast  disappearing  over 
the  horizon.  We  looked  at  it  with  regret ;  for  we  realized 
that  probably  neVer  again  should  we  have  the  oppor- 
tunity of  another  such  trip,  unless  perhaps  sometime  ih 
our  future  joumeyings  we  should  come  upon  its  like. 

If  fortune  should  never  so  favor  us,  then  the  way 
to  that  delightful  land  of  the  South  Pole  would  be  closed 
forever. 

But  if  any  of  you  feel  inclined  to  travel,  and  see  the 
world  in  a  large  perspective,  go  to  some  body  of  water, 
and  watch  for  one  of  these  natural  elevators,  and  if  one 
does  happen  in  your  way,  be  sure  that  all  the  hatches 
and  windows  are  closed,  and  ther.  steer  straight  for  the 
center  of  that  swirling  mass ;  for  this  is  a  pleasant  mode 
of  travel — slow,  and  doesn't  jar. 

—Edna  Collister. 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GROUP  225 

IV.    The  Deteofchre  Story  and  Other  Tales  of  Pure  Plot 

A  few  detective  stories  could  be  classed  with  our 
last  preceding  type  as  well  as  with  this.    Those  like 
F.  R.  Burton's  suppressed  prize  contribution 
to  a  Western  newspaper  might  be  put  under ^^J^*^ 
mechanical  inventions;  that  is,  all  that  con- Connection 
tain,   like  his,   a  practicable  theory.     The^*^^®^^ 
report  goes  that  Mr.  Burton  and  a  friend 
worked  together  and  produced  a  story  of  bank  robbers 
who  overcame  the  timeJock  device.    So  explicitly  was 
the   ingenious  method  written  out  that  the   editors 
decided  not  to  publish  it,  convinced  that  if  they  spread 
the  knowledge  abroad  no  time-lock  thereafter  would 
be  secure.    **The  Black  Pearl' ^  by  Vietorien  Sardou, 
on  the  other  hand,  might  be  called  a  scientific-discovery 
detective  tale.    It  perfectly  combines  the  two  elements 
— mystery  and  the  astounding  action  of  a  nature  phe- 
nomenon. 

Not  all  detective  stories,  however,  are  so  dangerous 
or  so  interesting  as  these.  Most,  rather,  are  amusing 
or  merely  entertaining;  but  we  class  them  in  the 
ingenious  group  because  of  the  effort  at  pure  plot. 
There  are  many  crude 'attempts  at  writing  detective 
jtories,  and  the  cheap,  ten-cent-novel  kind  disgusts 
persons  of  taste;  but  the  popularity  of  the  type  attests 
ts  excellence.  When  in  the  hands  of  such  men  as 
3dgar  Allan  Foe  and  A.  Conan  Doyle,  it  yields  an 
irtistic  short-story.  **The  Purloined  Letter''  and  the 
*  Adventures  of  Sherlock  Holmes"  are  worthy  of  their 
ame'.  ''The  Murders  in  the  Rue  Morgue"  and  the 
'Mystery  of  Marie  Rog^"  are  iiot  so  pleasant,  but  are 
qually  ingenious. 


226  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NABRATIVES 

Of  course,  the  author  of  the  ordinary  tale  of  this 
type  has  the  advantage  over  the  real  detective,  since 
the  author  first  creates  the  mystery  before  solving  it. 
His  ingenuity,  therefore,  will  lie  revealed  in  the  con- 
struction of  the  crime  which  he  pretends  to  be 
unearthing  and  explaining.  Evidently,  though,  his 
process  of  mind  can  be  no  different  from  that  of  the 
actual  analyzer,  who  must  unravel  what  to .  him.  is  a 
real  mystery.  He,  too,  if  he  is  to  succeed,  must 
re-image  the  whole  train  of  events,  not  as  points  or 
dots,  but  as  vivid  scenes.  Thus  only  will  both  workers 
come  at  small  incidents  that  are  original  and  ingenious 
and  essentially  pertinent.  It  happened  that  Poe,  m 
the  story  of  Marie  Rog^t,  was  acting  the  part  of  a  real 
detective,  since  he  was  reasoning  upon  an  actual 
mystery,  the  details  of  which  had  baffled  the  police. 
In  his  imaginary  case  he  reinstalled  the  crime  as  he 
felt  it  must  have  taken  place,  and,  strange  to.  say — or 
rather  not  strange  to  say,  for  Poe  had  the  qualities  of 
more  than  a  paper  detective — ^the  facts,  by  a  woman's 
confessions  later,  were  found  to  be  exactly  as  Poe  had 
imagined  them,  even  in  miuor  details. 

But  stories  that  emphasize  ;plot  do  not  wholly  lie  in 
the  detective  ^s  realm.  There  is  the  pure  reasoner's 
Other  great  domain  of  fancy.     '*The  Liady  or  the 

pio?*^^^  Tiger''  illustrates  tjje  class  completely,  even 
by  the  whimsical  ending.  The  man  that 
could  make  up  that  situation  could  have  solved  it,  or 
have  carried  it  on  intermipably,  as  he  laughingly  shows 
you  in  the  ''Discourager  of  Hesitancy.-'  His  ''Trans- 
ferred Ghost"  is  another  quirk,  of;  "reasonable"  fan- 
tasy.   Poe's  "Gold  Bug"  is  almost  pure  plot  and  has 


THE  INGENIOUSASTONISHING  GEOUP  22V 

the  interestiiig  device  of  the  cryptogram  in  addition. 
Pushkin's  *'Snow  Storm';  is  built  upon  a  queer  coinci- 
dence* 

The  story  that  emjAasi^es  plot  is  primarily  a  nar- 
rative of  a  series  of  happenings,  and  only  incidentally 
the  record  of  eharaeter  or  place.  The  author  has  no 
interest  in  what  kind  of  men  perform  the  deeds,  except 
that  they  shall  be  the  general  large  types:  the  soldier 
and  his  friend,  the  lover  and  his  rival,  the  magistrate 
and  the  citizen,  the  sovereign  and  his  subject,  the 
doctor  and  his  patient,  and  so  on.  Interest  centers  in 
the  question,  What  will  they  do  next?  not,  What  are 
they  and  what  will  they  becbme  ? 

In  longer  prose  the  sto!ry  with  a  p^lot  is  the  romance, 
the  modern  romance.  In'  it,  too,  the  author  is  con- 
cerned mainly  with  the  course  of  events. 
Take  ' '  Ivanhoe ' '  or  *  'The'  Prisoner  of  Zenda, ' '  ^°^«^^® 
for  instance,  and  what  have  you? — actors  about  whom 
there  is  no  question  of  character  growth.  What  they 
were  at  the  beginning,  that  they  are  at  the  end— 
except,  perhaps,  Rebecca.  Ih  romance  the  happenings 
are  largely  adventure.  As  they  become  preposterous 
the  narrative  borders  on  the  mere  wonder  type. 

To  write  a  detective  tale  or  other  story  of  pure  plot, 
you  must  first  get  your  plot — as  the  old  fisherman 
would  say  about  the  eel  when  you  wish  to     ^  ^^^ 
skin  it.    If  you  can  grasp  one  and  hold  it,     suggefi- 
you  are  an  expert.    The  difficulty  will  be  that    ^^^ 
you  Win  probably  find  your  plot  a  shadow,  when  you 
hoped  for  a  good  solid  piece  of  reasoning.    In  the  detect- 
ive tale  you  must  propound  your  mystery  at  the  begin- 
ning of  the  narrative  and  then  work  backwards  to  the 


228  TYPES  or  PBOSE  NAESATIVES 

first  step;  In  the  other  story,  you  must  start  out  with  the 
simplest  and  seemingly  most  insignificant  incident  and 
work  steadily  up  to  a  fantastic  or  astounding  climax. 
In  the  second  you  naively  keep  adding  one  to  one,  as 
it  were,  and  get  a  hundred;  in  the  first,  you  sub- 
tract one  after  one  from  your  hundred  until  you  get  a 
unit. 

Thou  Art  the  Man 

I  will  now  play  the  (Edipus  to  the  Eattleborough 
enigma,  I  will  expound  to  you — ^aa  I  alone  can — ^the  se- 
cret of  the  enginery  .that  effected  the  Rattleborough 
miracle — ^the  one,  the  true,  the  admitted,  the  undisputed, 
the  indisputable  miracle,  which  put  a  definite  end  to  in- 
fidelity among  the  Rattlebinrghers  and  converted  to  the 
orthodox  of  the  grandames  aU  the  carnal-minded  who 
had  ventured  to  be  sceptical  before. 

This  event — ^which  I  should  be  sorry  to  discuss  in  a 
tone,  of  unsuitable  levity— occurred  in  the  summer  of 
18 — .  Mr.  Barnabas  Shuttleworthy — one  of  the  wealth- 
iest and  most  respectable  citizens  of  the  borough — ^had 
been  missing  for  several  days  under  circumstances  which 
gave  rise  to  suspicion  of  foul  play.  Mr.  Shuttleworthy 
had  set  out  from  Rattleborough  very  early  one  Satur- 
day morning,  on  horseback,  with  the  avowed  intention 

of  proceeding  to  the  city,  of ,  about  fifteen  miles 

distant,  and  of  returning  th^.  night  of  the  same  day. 
Two  hours  after  his  departure,  however,  his  horse  re- 
turned without  him,  and  without  the  saddle-bags  which 
had  been  strapped  on  his  back  at  starting.  The  apimal 
was  wounded  too,  and  covered  with  mud.  These  circum- 
stances naturally  gave  rise  to  much  Alarm  aanqxitg.  the 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTGNISHI]SrG  GROUP  ggg 

friends  of  the  missing  man;  and  when  it  was  found, 
on  Sunday  morning,  that  he  had  not  yet  made  his  ap- 
pearanee,  the  wbote  borough  arose  en  masse  to  go  and 
look  for  hi^  body. 

The  foremost  axid  most  eneitgetic  in  instituting  this 
search  was.  the  bosoim  friend  of  Mr.  Shuttleworthy^— a 
Mr.  Charles  Gk)odfelloW,  or^  as  he  was  uniTersally  called, 
*^ Charley  GoodfeUow,''  or  ''Old  Charley  GoodfeUow." 
Now,  whether  it  ia  a  marveUous  eoincidenoe,  or  whether 
it  was  that  the  natrue  itself  has  an  impei^ceptible  effeet 
upon  the  character,  I  have  never  yet  been  able  to  asoer^ 
tain;  but  the  fact  is  unquestionable,  that  there  never 
yet  was  any  person  named  Charles  who  was  not  an 
open,  manly^  honesty  good-natured,  and  frank-hearted 
fellow,  with  a.  rich,  clear  voiee,  that  did  yeu  good  to 
hear  it,  and  an  eyfe  that  looked  you  always  straight  in 
the  faoe^  as  mu«h:  as  to  say :  *  *  I  have  a  clear  eonsifeience 
myself,  aiii  afraid  df  no  man,  and  am  altogether  above 
doing  a  mean  action.'^  And  thus*  all  the  hearty,  oare^ 
less,  **w!aUdng;gentlemen''  of  the  stag^are  v^ry  certain 
to  be  called  Ohaarlei^  ■        .  ,  -. 

Now,  *'.01d  Charley  QoodMlow/^  although  he  had 
been  in.  Battlebbrough  not  longer  than  six  months  or 
thereabbutsi,  ,a(nd  although  nobody  knew  anything  about 
him  before 'he  came  to  settle  in  the  neighborhood,  had  ex-^ 
perienced  no  difficulty  in  the  world  in  making  the  ac- 
quaintanoe  of  all  the  respectable  people  in  the  borough. 
Not  a  ina^  of  them  but  would  have  taken  his  bare  word 
for  a  thouaaad  at  any  moment';- and  as  for  the  women, 
there  is  ti/o  paying  what  they  would  not  have  done  to- 
oblige  him.  And  all  this  came  of  his  having  been  chris*- 
tened  Charles,  and  of  his  possessing,  in  consequence,  that 


232  TYPES  or  PROSE  NAEBATIVES 

poignant  sorrow.  Their  powers  of  mind  seem  to  be  ren- 
dered torpid,  so  that  they  have  a  horror  of  anything 
like  action,  and  like  nothing  in  the  world  so  well  as  to 
lie  quietly  in  bed  and  ** nurse  their  grief,'*  as  the  old 
ladies  express  it — ^that  is  to  say,  rununate  over  the 
trouble. 

The  people  of  Rattleborough  had,  indeed,  so  high  an 
opinion  of  the  wisdom  and  discretion  of  **01d  Charley," 
that  the  greater  part  of  them  felt  disposed  to  agree  with 
him,  and  not  make  a  stir  in  the  business  **  until  something 
should  turn  up,"  as  the  honest  old  gentleman  worded  it; 
and  I  believe  that,  after  all,  this  would  have  been  the 
general  determination,  but  for  the  very  suspicious  in- 
terference of  Mr.  Shuttleworthy's  nephew,  a  young  man 
of  very  dissipated  habits,  and  otherwise  of  rather  bad 
character.  This  nephew,  whose  name  was  Pennifeather, 
would  listen  to  nothing  like  reason  in  the  matter  of 
'* lying  quiet,"  but  insisted  upon  making  immediate 
search  for  the  ''corpse  of  the  murdered  man."  This 
was  the  expression  he  employed,  and  Mr.  Goodfellow 
acutely  remarked  at  the  time,  that  it  was  '*a  singular 
expression,'  to  say  no  more."  This  remark  of  *'01d 
Charley's"  too,  had  great  effect  upon  the  crowd;  and 
one  of  the  party  was  heard  to  ask,  very  impressively, 
**how  it  happened  that  young  Mr.  Pennifeather  was  so 
intimately  cognizaM  of  all  the  circumstances  connected 
with  his  wealthy  uncle's  disappearance,  as  to  feel  au- 
thorized to  assert,  distinctly  and  unequivocally,  that 
his  unele  was  *a  mtirdered  man.'  "  Hereupon  some  lit- 
tle squibbling  aind  bickering  occurred  among  the  varioua 
members  of  the  crowd,  and  especially  between  '*01d 
Chai*ley"  and  Mr.  Pennifeather-^although  this  latter 


THE  INGBNIOUSASTONISHING  GROUP  233 

occurrence  was,  indeed,  by  no  means  a  novelty,  for  lit- 
tle good-will  had  subsisted  between  the  parties  for  the 
last  three  or  four  months;  and  matters  had  been  gone 
so  far  that  Mr.  Pennif eather  had  actually  knocked  down 
his  uncle's  friend  fot  some' alleged  excess  of  liberty  that 
the  latter  had  taken  in  the  uncle's  house,  of  which  the 
nephew  was  an  inmate.  Upon  this  occasion''  **01d 
Charley"  is  said  to  have  behaved  with  exemplary  mod- 
eration: ai?.d  Christian  charity..  He  arose  from  the  blow, 
adjusted  his  elotheep,  and  mad^  no  attetnpt  at  retaliation 
at  all— merely  muttered  fe  ^w  words  about  *  *  taking  sum- 
mary yengetooe  at  the  fir«t  <5onvenient  opportimity!, " — 
a  natural  and  very  justifiable  ebullition  of  anger,  which 
meant rnothing,h»wcveri  and,  beyond  doubt,  was  no 
sooner  given  vent  to  than'  forgotten. 

However  these  matters  may  be  (which  have  no  ref- 
erence to*  the  po^ntho^  at  issue),  it  is  quite  certain  that 
the  people  of  Rattlebdrou^h,  principally  through  the  per- 
silasioii  of  Mr.  Pennifeather,  came  at  length  to  the  de- 
termination of  dispersion  over  the  adjacent  country  in 
search  of  the  missing  Mr.  Shuttleworthy.  I  say  they 
came  to  this  disteifmination  in  the  first  instance.  After 
it  had  been  fully  xesolved  that  a  search  should  be  madie, 
it  was  considered  almost  a  matter  of  course  that  the 
seekers  should,  disperse — ^that  is  to  say,  distribute  them- 
selves in  pal^ties^-**-f or  Ihe  more  thorough  examination  of 
the  region  round  about.  I  forgot,  however,  by  what  in^ 
genious  train  of  reasoniag  it  was  that  ''Old  Charley" 
finally  convinced  the  assembly  that  this  was  the  most 
injudidiqus  plan  that  could  be  pursued.  Convince  them, 
however,  he  did — all  except  Mr.  Pennifeather;  and,  in 
the  end,  it  was  arranged  that  a  search  should  be  in- 


834  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NABBATIVE8 

stituted,  carefully  and  very  thoroughly,  by  the  bur- 
ghers en  masse,  **01d  Charley''  himself  leading  the  way. 
As  for  the  matter  of  that,  there  could  have  been  no 
better  pioneer  than  **01d  Charley,"  whom  everybody 
knew  to  have  the  eye  of  a  lynx;  but,  although  he  led 
them  into  all  manner  of  out-of-the-way  holes  and  cor- 
ners, by  routes  that  nobody  had  ever  suspected  of  ex- 
isting in  the  neighborhood,  and  although  the  search  was 
incessantly  kept  up  day  and  night  for  n^rly  a  week, 
still  no  trace  of  Mr.  Shuttleworthy  could  be  discovered 
When  I  say  no  trace,  however,  I  must  not  be  understood 
to  speak  literally;  for  trace,  to  some  extent,  there  cer- 
tainly was.  The  poor  gentleman  had  been  tracked,  by 
his  horse's  shoes  (which  were  peculiar),  to  a  spot  about 
three  miles  to  the  east  of  the  bordugh,  on  the  main  road 
leading  to  the  city.  Here  the  track  made  off  into  a  by- 
path through  a  piece  of  woodland — the  path  coming  out 
again  into  the  main  road,  and  cutting  off  abont  half  a 
mile  of  the  regular  distance.  Following  the  shdemarks 
down  this  lane,  the  party  came  at  length  to  a  pool  of 
stagnant  water,  half  hidden  by  the  brambles,  to  the 
right  of  the  lane,  and  opposite  this  pool  all  vestige  of 
the  track  was  lost  sight  of.  It  appeared,  however,  that 
a  struggle  of  some  nature  had  here  taken  place,  and  it 
seemed  as  if  some  large  and  heavy  body,  much  lai^r 
and  heavier  than  a  man,  had  been  drawn  from  the  by- 
path to  the  pool.  This  latter  was  carefully  dragged 
twice,  but  nothing  was  found;  and  the  party  were  upon 
the  point  of  going  away,  in  despair  of  coming  to  any  re- 
sult, when  Providence  suggested  to  Mr.  Goodfellow  the 
expediency  of  draining  the  water  off  altogether.  This 
project  was  received  with  cheers,  and  many  high  com- 


THE  INGENIOUSASTONISHING  GROUP  235 

pliments  to  **CMd  Charley"  upon  his  sagacity  and  con- 
sideration. As  many  of  the  burghers  had  brought  spades 
with  them,  supposing  that  they  might  possibly  be  called 
upon  to  disinter  a  corpse,  the  drain  was  easily  and 
speedily  effected ;  and  no  sooner  was  the  bottom  visible, 
than  right  in  the  middle  of  the  mud  that  remained  was 
discovered  a  black  silk  velvet  waistcoat,  which  nearly 
every  one  present  immediately  recognized  as  the  prop- 
erty of  Mx.  Pennif eather.  This  waistcoat  was  much  torn 
and  stained  with  blood,  and  there  were  several  persons 
among  the  party  who  had  a  distinct  remembrance  of  its 
having  been  worn  by  its  owner  on  the  very  morning  of 
Mr.  Shuttl^worthy's  departure  for  the  city;  while  there 
were  others,  again,  ready  to  testify  upon  oath,  if  re- 
quired, that  Mr.  P.  did  not  wear  the  garment  in  ques- 
tion at  any  period  during  the  remainder  of  that  mem- 
orable day ;  nor  could  any  one  be  found  to  say  that  h^ 
had  seen  it  upon  Mr.  P.'s  person  at  any  period  at  all 
subsequent  to  Mr.  Shuttleworthy's  disappearance. 

Matters  now  wore*  a  very  serious  aspect  for  Mr. 
Pennifeather,  and  it  was  observed,  as  an  indubitable 
confirmation  of  the  suspicions  which  were  excited  against 
him,  that  he  grew  exceedingly  pale,  and  when  asked  what 
he  had  t6  say  for  himself,  was  utterly  incapable  of  say- 
ing a  word.  Hereupon,  the  few  friends  his  riotous  mode 
of  living  had  left  him  deserted  him  at  once  to  a  man, 
and  were  even  more  clamorous  than. his  ancient  and 
avowed  enemies  for  his  instantaneous  arrest.  But,  on 
the  other  h^nd,  the  magnanimity  of  Mr.  Goodfellow 
shone  forth  with  only  the  more  brilliant  lustre  through 
contrast.  He  made  a  warm  and  intensely  eloquent  de- 
fense of  Mr.  Pennif  eather,  in  which  he  alluded  more  than 


236  TYPES  OP  PBOSE  NABRATIVES 

once  to  his  own  sinoere  forgiveness  of  that  wild  young 
gentleman — ^**the  heir  of  the  worthy  Mr.  Shuttle  worthy" 
— for  the  insult  which  he  (the  young  gentleman)  had,  no 
doubt  in  the  heat  of  passion,  thought  proper  to  put  upon 
him  (Mr.  Goodfellow).  **He  forgave  him  for  it,"  he 
said,  **from  the  very  bottom  of  his  heart;  and  for  him- 
self (Mr.  Goodfellow),  so  far  from  pushing  the  sus- 
picious circumstances  to  extremity,  which  he  was  sorry 
to  say,  really  had  arisen  against, Mr.  Pennifeather,  he 
XMr.  Goodfellow)  would  make  every  exertion  in  his 
power,  would  employ  all  the  little  •eloqu.ence  in  his  pos- 
session to — to — ^to-HSoft^k  down,  as  much  as  he  could 
conscientiously  do  so,  the  worst  features  of  this  really  ex- 
ceedingly perplexing  piece  of  business." 

Mr.  Goodfellow  went  on  for  some  half  hour  longer 
in  this  strain,  veiy  much  to  the  dredit  both  of  his 
head  and  of  his  heart;  but  your  wiarmrhearted  people 
are  seldom  opposite  in  their  observafcion&-*they  run  into 
all  sorts  of  bli^paders,  conire-^iemps.  and  mal^propos-isms, 
in  the  hot-headedness  of  their  zeal' to  serve  a  friend — 
thus,  often  with  the  kindest  intentions  in  the  world,  do- 
ing infinitely  more  to  prejudice  his  cause  than  to  ad- 
vance it. 

So,  in  the  present  instance^  it  turned  out  with  all  the 
eloquence  of  *^pid  Charley";  for,  ^.Uhoughhe  labored 
earnestly  in  behalf  of  the  suspected,-  yet  it  so  happened, 
somehow  or  other  that  every  syllable  he  uttered  of  which 
the  direct  but  un;fvitting  twdency  was  not  to  exalt  the 
speaker  in.  the  good  opinion  of  his  audi^ce,  had  the  (ef- 
fect of  deepening  the  suspicion  already  attached  to  the 
individual  whose  cause  he.  pled,  and  of  arousing  against 
"-'-a  the  fury  of  thi?  mob. 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GROUP  %St 

One  of  the  moat  unaccountable  errors  committed  by 
the  orator  was  his  allusion  to  the  suspected  as  **the  heir 
of  the  worthy  old  gentleman,  Mr.  Shuttleworthy."  The 
people  had  really  never  thought  of  this  before?  They 
had  only  remembered  certain  threats  of  disinheritance 
tittered  a  year  or  two  previously  by  the  uncle  (who  had 
no  living  relative  except  the  nephew),  and  th^  had, 
therefore,  alwayB. looked  updn  this  disinheritance  as  a 
matter  that  was  settled— so  single-minded  a  race  of  be- 
ings were  the  Rattlebtirgherjs ;  but  the  remark  of  *'*01d 
Charley''  brought  them  at  once  to  a  consideration  of 
this  point,  and  thni&  gave  them  to  see  the  possibility  of 
the  threats  having  been  nothing  more  than  a  threat. 
And  straightway  hereupouj  arose  the  natural  question 
of  cui  bono? — a  question;  that  tended  even  more  than  the 
waistcoat  to  fesften  the  terrible  crime  upon  the  young 
man.  And  here,  lest  I  may  be  misunderstood,  permit  me 
to  digress  for  one  moment  merely  to  observe  that  the  ex-» 
ceedingly  brief  and  simple. Latin  phrase  which  I  have 
employed,  is  invariably  mistranslated  and  misconceived: 
^^Cm  hono^'  in.  all  the  crack  novels  and  elsewhere — ^in 
those  of  Mrs.  Gore,  for  example  {the  author  of  '* Cecil,"), 
a  lady  who  quotes  all  tongues  from  the  Cbaldaean  to 
Chiokasaw,  and  is  helped  to  her  learning,  **as  needed,' - 
upon  a  systematic  plan,  by  Mr.  Beokford — ^in  all  the 
crack  novels,  I  say,  from  those  of  Bulwer  and  Dickens 
to  those  of  Tui*napenny  and  Ainsworth,  the  two  little 
Latin  words  cui  bono  are  rendered  *Ho  wiiat  purpose?'' 
or  ( as  if  quo  bono )  /  *  to  what  good  ? ' '  Their  true  mi^am 
ing,  nevertheless^  is  *^for  whose  advantage."  Gui,  to 
whom;  bono,  is  it  for  a  benefit.  It  is  a  piirely  legal 
phrase,  and  applicable  precisely  in  cases  sueh  as  we  have 


238  TYPES  or  PROSE  NABSATIVES 

under  consideration,  where  probability  of  the  doer  of  a 
deed  hinges  upon  the  probability  of  the  benefit  accruing 
to  this  individual  or  to  that  from  the  deed's  aecoanplish- 
ment.  Now  in  the  present  instance,  the  question  cvi 
honof  very  pointedly  implicated  Mr.  Peimifeather.  His 
tLQde  had  threatened  him,  after  making  a  will  in  his 
favor,  with  diBinheritanoe.  But  the  threat  had  net  been 
actually  kept;  the  original  will,  it  appeared,  had  not 
been  altered.  Had  it  been  altered,  the  only  supposable 
motive  for  murder  on  the  part  of  the  inspected  would 
have  been  the  ordinary  oioe  of  revenge  j  and  even- this 
would  have  been  counteracted  by  the  hope  of  reinsta- 
tion into  the  good  graces  of  the  uncle.  But  the  will  be- 
ing unaltered,  while  the  threat  to  alter  remained  sus- 
pended over  the  nephew's  head,  there  appears  at  once 
the  very  strongest  possible  inducement  for  the  atrocity; 
and  so  concluded  very  sagaciously,  the. worthy  citizens 
of  the  borough  of  Rattle. 

Mr.  Pennifeather  was,  accordingly,  arrested  upon 
the  spot,  and  the  crowd,  after  some  further  search,  pro- 
ceeded homeward,  having  him  in  custody.  On  the  route, 
however,  another  circumstance  occurred  tending  to  con- 
firm the  suspicion  entertained.  Mr.  Goodfellow,  whose 
zeal  led  him  to  be  always  a  little  in  advance  of  the  party, 
was  seen  suddenly  to  run  forward  a  few  paces,  stoop, 
and  then  apparently  to  pick  up  some  small  object  from 
the  grass.  Having  quickly  examined  it,  he  was  observed 
too,  to  make  a  sort  of  attempt  at  concealing  it  in  his 
coat  pocket;  but  this  action  was  noticed,  as  I  say,  and 
consequently  prevented,  when  the  object  picked  up  was 
found  to  be  a  Spanish  knife  which  a  do^en  persons  at 
onoe  recognized  as  belonging  to  Mr.  Pennifeather.  More- 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GROUP  239 

over,  his  initials  were  engraved  upon  the  handle.  The 
blade  of  this  knife  was  open  and  bloody. 

No  doubt  now  remained  of  the  guilt  of  the  nephew, 
and  innnediately  upon  reaching  Rattleborough  he  was 
taken  before  a  magistrate  for  examination. 

Here  matters  again  took  a  most  unfavorable  turn. 
The  prisoner,  being  questioned  as  to  his  whereabouts  on 
the  morning  of  Mr.  Shuttleworthy's  disappearance,  had 
absolutely  the  audacity  to  acknowledge  that  on  that  very 
morning  he  had  been  out  with  his  rifle  deernrtalking,  in 
the  immediate  neighborhood  of  the  pool  where  the  blood- 
stained waistcoat  had  been  discovered  through  the  sa- 
gacity of  Mr.  Goodfellow. 

This  latter  now  came  forward,  and,  with  tears  in  his 
eyes,  asked  permission  to  be  examined.  He  said  that  a 
stem  sense  of  the  duty  he  owed  his  Maker,  not  less  than 
his  feUow-men,  would  permit  him  no  longer  to  remain 
silent.  Hitherto,  the  sincerest  affection  for  the  young 
man  (notwithstanding  the  latter 's  ill-treatment  of  him- 
self, Mr.  Goodfellow),  had  induced  him  to  make  every 
hypothesis  which  imagination  could  suggest,  by  way  of 
endeavoring  to  account  for  what  appeared  suspicious  in 
the  circumstances  that  told  so  seriously  against  Mr.  Pen- 
nifeather;  but  these  circumstances  were  now  altogether 
too  convincing — ^too  damning ;  he  would  hesitate  no  longer 
— ^he  would  tell  all  he  knew,  although  his  heart  (Mr. 
'  Goodfellow 's),  should  absolutely  burst  asunder  in  the 
eEott.  He  then  went  on  to  state  that  on  the  afternoon 
of  the  day  previous  to  Mr.  Shuttleworthy's  departure 
for  the  city,  that  worthy  old  gentleman  had  mentioned  to 
his  nephew,  in  his  hearing  (Mr.  Goodfellow 's),  that  his 
object  in  going  to  town  on  lie  morrow  was  to  make  a 


240  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

deposit  of  an  unusually  large  sum  of  money  in  the 
**  Farmers'  and  Merchants'  Bank,  "and  that,  then  and 
there,  the  said  Mr.  Shuttleworthy  had  distinctly  avowed 
to  the  said  nephew  his  irrevocable  determination  of  re- 
scinding the  will  originally  made,  and  of  cutting  him 
off  with  a  shilling.  He  (the  witness)  now  solemnly 
called  upon  the  accused  to  state  whether  what  he  (the 
witness)  had  just  stated  was  or  was  not  the  truth  in 
every  substantial  particular.  Much  to  the  astonishment 
of  every  one  present,  Mr.  Pennifeather  frankly  admitted 
that  it  was. 

The  magistrate  now  considered  it  his  duty  to  send  a 
couple  of  constables  to  search  the  chamber  of  the  ac- 
cused in  the  house  of  Ms  uncle.  From  this  search  they 
almost  immediately  Tetumed  "with  the  well-known  steel- 
hound,  russet  leather  pocket-book  which  the  old  gentle- 
man had  been  in  the  hiabit  of  carrying  for  years.  Its 
valuable  contents,  however,  had  been  abstracted,  and  the 
magistrate  in  vain  endeavored  to  extort  from  the  prisoner 
the  use  which  had  been  tnade  of  them,  or  the  place  of 
their  concealments  Indeed,  he  obstinately  denied  all 
knowledge  of  the  matter.  The  constables  also  discovered, 
between  the  bed  and  sacking  of  the  unhappy  man,  a 
shirt  and  neck-handkerchief  both  marked  with  the  ini- 
tials of  his  name,  and  both'  hideously  besmeared  with  the 
blood  of  the  victim. 

At  this  juncture^  it  was.  announced  that  the  horse  of 
the  murdered  man  had  just  expired  in  the  stable  from 
the  eftects  of  the  wound  he  had  received,  and  it  was  pro- 
posed by  Mr.  GdodfeUow  that  a  post-mortem  examina- 
tion of  the  beast  should  be  immediately  made,  with  the 
view,  if  possible,  of  discovering  the  baU.    This  was  ac- 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GEOXJP  241 

cordingly  done ;  and,  as  if  to  demonstrate  beyond  a  ques- 
tion the  guilt  of  the  accused,  Mr.  Goodfellow,  after  con- 
siderable searching  in  the  cavity  of  the  chest,  was  en- 
aWed  to  detect  and  to  pull  forth  a  bullet  of  v^ry  extraor- 
dinary size  which,  upon  trial,  was  found"  to  be  exactly 
adapted  to  the  bore  t>t  Mr.  Pennifeather's  rifle,  while 
it  was  far  too  large  for  that  of  any  other  person  in  the 
borough  or  its  vicinity.  To  render  the  matter  even  surer 
yet,  however,  this  bullet  was  disco'^l^ered  to*  have  a  flaw 
or  seam  at  a  right  angles'  to  the  usual  suture,  and  upon 
examination,  this  seam  corresponded  precisely  with  an 
accidental  ridge  or  elevaticm  in  a  pair  of  moulds  ac- 
knowledged by  the  accused  himself  to  be  his  own  prop- 
erty. Upon  finding  of  this  bullet,  the  examining  magis- 
trate refused  to  listen  to  any  further  testimony,  and  im- 
mediately committed  the  prisoner  for  trial — declining 
resolutely  to  take  any  bail  in  the  case,  although  against 
this  severity  Mr.  Goodfellow  vety  warmly  remonstrated, 
and  offered  to  become  surety  in  whatever  amount  might 
be  required.  •  This  generosity  on  the  part  of  **01d 
Charley''  was  only  in  accordance  with  the  whole  tenor 
of  his  amiable  and  chivalrous  conduct  during  the  entire 
period  of  iis  sojourn  in  the  borough  of  Rattle.  In  the 
present  instance  the'  worthy  matt  was  so  entirely  carried 
away  by  the  excessive  warmth  of  his  sympathy,  that  he 
seemed  to  have  quite  forgotten,  when  he  Offered  to  go 
bail  for  his  young  friend;  that  he  himself  (Mr.  Goodfel- 
low) did  not  possess  a  single  dollar's  worth  of  property 
upon  the  face  of  the  earth.       * 

The  result  of  the  committal  may  be  readily  foreseen. 
Mr.  Pennif eather,  amid  the  loud  execrations  of  all  Rat- 
tleborough,  was  brought  to  trial  at  the  next  criminal  ses- 


34^  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

sions,  when  the  chain  of  circumstantial  evidence 
(strengthened  as  it  was  by  some  additional  damning 
facts,  which  Mr.  Groodfellow's  sensitive  conscientiousness 
forbade  him  to  withhold  from  the  court),  was  considered 
so  unbroken  and  so  thoroughly  conclusive,  that  the  jury, 
without  leaving  their  seats,  returned  an  immediate  ver- 
dict of  '^Guilty  of  murder  in  the  first  degree,' '  Soon 
afterward  the  unhappy  wretch  received  sentence  of 
death,  and  was  remanded  to  the  county  jail  to  await  the 
inexorable  vengeance  of  the  law. 

In  the  meantime,  the  noble  behavior  of  **01d  Charley 
Goodfellow"  had  doubly  endeared  him  to  the  honest  citi- 
zens of  the  borough.  He  became  ten  times  a  greater 
favorite  than  ever ;  and,  as  a  natural  result  of  the  hos- 
pitality with  which  he  was  treated,  he  relaxed,  as  it  were, 
perforce,  the  extremely  paraimonioiua  habits  which  his 
poverty  had  hitherto  impelled  him  to  observe,  and  very 
frequently  had  little  reunions  at  his  own  house,  when  wit 
and  jollity  reigned  supreme — dampened  a  little,  of 
course,  by  the  occasioxial  remembrance  of  the  untoward 
and  melancholy  fate  which  impended  over  the  nephew 
of  the  late  lamented  bosom  frigid  of  the  generous  host. 

One  fine  day,  this  magnanimous  old  gentleman  was 
agreeably  surprised  at  the  receipt  of  the  following  letter: 

Charles  Goodfellow,  Esq.,  Rattleborough. 
From  H.,  F.,  B.  ^  Co. 
Chat.  Mar.  A. — ^No.  1 — 6  doz.  bottles.  (%gro8S.) 
''Charles  Goodfellow,  Esquire: 

''Dear  Sir — In  conformity  with  an  order 
transmitted  to  our  firm  about  two  months  since, 
by  our  esteemed  correspondent,   Mr.   Barnabas 


THE  INGENIOUS- ASTON  J  SHING  GROUP     2« 

Shuttleworthy,  we  have  the  honor  of  forwarding 
this  morning^  to  your  address,  a  double  box  of 
Chateau-Margaux,  of  the  antelope  brand,  violet 
seal.  Box  numbered  and  marked  as  per  margin. 
**We  remain,  sir, 

**Your  most  ob'nt  ser^ts, 

'* Hoggs,  Frogs,  Bogs  &  Co/' 

'^ City  of , 

June  21,  18—. 
*'P.  S. — The  box  will  reach  yon  by  wagon, 
on  the  day  after  your  receipt  of  this  letter.    Our 
respects  to  Mar.  ShutUeworthy. 

'^H.,  F.,  B.  &  Co." 

The  fact  is,  that  Mr.  Qoodf ellow  had,  since  the  death 
of  Mr.  Shuttleworthy,  given  over  all  expectation  of  ever 
receiving  the  promised  Chateau-Margaux ;  and  he,  there- 
fore, looked  upon  it  now  as  a  sort  of  especial  dispensa- 
tion of  Providence  in  his  behalf.  He  was  highly  de- 
lighted, of  course  and  in  the  exuberance  of  his  joy,  in- 
vited a  large  party  of  friends  to  a  petit  souper  on  the 
morrow,  for  the  purpose  of  broaching  the  good  old  Shut- 
tleworthy's  present.  Not  that  he  said  anything  about 
''the  good  old  Mr.  Shuttleworthy"  when  he  issued  the 
invitations.  The  fact  is,  he  thought  much  and  concluded 
to  say  nothing  at  all.  He  did  not  mention  to  any  one — 
if  I  remember  aright — ^that  he  had  received  a  present  of 
Chateau-Margaux.  He  merely  a^ed  his  friends  to  come 
and  help  him  drink  some  of  a  remarkably  fine  quality 
and  rich  .flavor  that  he  had  ordered  up  from  the  city  a 
couple  of  months  ago,  and  of  which  he  would  be  in  the 
receipt  upon  the  morrow.    I  have  often  puzaled  myself 


244  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

to  imagine  why  it  was  that  **01d  Charley''  came  to  the 
conclusion  to  say  nothing  aboiot  having  received  the  wine 
from  his  old  friend,  but  I  could  never  pi^ecisely  under- 
stand his  reason  for  the  silence,  although  he  had  some  ex- 
cellent and  very  magnanimous  reason,  no  doubt. 

The  morrow  at  length  arrived^  and  with  it  a  very 
large  and  highly  respectable  company  at  Mr.  Good- 
fellow's  house.  Indeed,  half  the  borough  was  there — I 
myself  among  the  number — ^but,  much  to  the  vexation  of 
the  host,  the  Chateau-Margaux  did  not  arrive  until  a 
late  hour,  and  when  the  sumptuous  supper  supplied  by 
*'01d  Charley"  had  been  dcme  v©iy. ample  justice  by  the 
guests.  It  came  at  length,  however — a  monstrously  big 
box  of  it  there  was,  too — ^and  as  the  whole  party  were  in 
excessiveiy  good  humor,  it  wfts  decided,  nem.  con,,  that 
it  should  be  lifted  tipon  the  table  and  its  contents  dis- 
embowelled forthwith. 

No  sooner  said  than  done.  I  lent  a  helping  hand; 
and,  in  a  trice,  we  had  the  box' upon  the  table,  in  the 
midst  of  all  the  bottles  and  glaSSe^,  not  a  few  of  which 
were  demolished  in  the  scuffle.  ''Old  Charley,"  who  was 
pretty  much*  intoxicated,  and  excessively  red  in  the  face, 
now  took  a  sebt,  with  in  air  of  mock  dignity,  at  the 
head  of  the  b6a;rd,  iAnd  thumped  furiously  upon  it  with 
a  decanter,  calling  upon  the  company  to  keep  order 
''during  the  ceiremony  of  dii^interring  the  treasure." 

After  some  vocif ei-ation,  quifet  was  at  length  fully  re- 
stored, and,  a«  very  often  happens  in  similar  cases,  a 
profound  and  remarkable  silence  ensued.  Beitig  then 
requested  to  force  opefi  th^  lid,  I  complied,  of  course, 
"with  an  infinite  deal  of  pleasure."  I  inserted  a  chisel, 
and  giving  it  a  i(sw  slight  taps  with  a  hammer,  the  top 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GBOUP  246 

of  the  box  flew  suddenly  off,  and,  at  the  same  instant, 
there  sprang  up  into  a  sitting  position,  directly  facing 
the  host,  the  bruised,  bloody,  and  nearly  putrid  corpse 
of  the  murdered  Mr.  Shuttleworthy  himiself.  It  gassed 
for  a  few  seconds,  fixedly  and  sorrowfully,  with  its  de- 
caying and  lack-lustre  eyes,  full  into  the  countenance  of 
Mr.  Goodfellow;  uttered  slowly,  but  clearly  and  impres- 
sively, the  words,  '*Thou  art  the  manT'  and  then,  fall- 
ing over  the  side  of  the  chest  as  if  thoroughly  satisfied, 
stretched  out  its  limbs  quivering  upon  the  table; 

The  scene  that  ensued  is  altogether  beyond  descrip^ 
tion.    The  rush  for  the  doors  and  windows  was  terrific, 
and  many  of  the  most  robust  men  in  the  room  fainted 
outright  through  sheer  horror.    But  after  the  first- wild, 
shrieking  burst  of  affright,  all  eyes  were  directed,  to  Mr.' 
Goodfellow.    If  I  live  a  thousand  years,  I  can  never  for- 
get the  more  than  mortal  agony  which  was  depicted  in 
that  ghastly  face  of  his,  so  lately  rubicund  with  triumph- 
and  wine.     For  several  minutes  he  sat  rigidly  as  a* 
statue  of  marble ;  his  eyes  seeming,  in  the  intense  vacancy* 
of  their  gaze,  to  be  turned  inward  and  absorbed  in  the 
contempla4:ion  of  his  own  miserable,  murderous  soul.    At 
length  their  expressijon  appeared  to:  flash  suddenly  out 
into  the  cxternfel  world,  when,  with  a  quicl?  leap,  he 
sprang  from  his  chair,  and  falling  heavily  with  bis  head 
and  shoulders  upon  the  table,  and  in  contact  with  the 
corpse,  poured  out  rapidly  and  vehemently  a  detailed 
confession  of  the  hideous  crime  for  which  Mr.  Penni- 
feather  was  then  imprisoned  and  doomed  to  die. 

What  he, recounted  was  in  substanoe  this:  He  fol* 
lowed  his  victim  to  the  vicinity  of  the  pool;  there  shot 
his  horse  with'a  pistol;  despatched  its  rider  With  the  butt 


246  TTFES  OF  PBOSE  I^ABKATIVBS 

exid;  possessed  himself  of  the  pocket-book;  imd,  suppos- 
ing the  horse  dead,  dragged  it  with  great  labor  to  the 
brambles  by  the  pond.  Upon  his  own  beast  he  slung  the 
corpse  of  Mr.  Shuttleworthy,  and  thns  bore  it  to  a  se- 
cure  plaee  of  eoncealment  a  long  distance  off  through 
the  woods. 

The  waistcoat,  the  knife,  the  poeket-book,  and  bul- 
let had  been  placed  by  himself  where  found,  with  the 
view  of  avenging  himself  upon  Mr.  Pennif eather.  He 
had  also  contrived  the  disooveiy  of  the  staaned  handker- 
chief and  shirt. 

Toward  the  end  of  the  bloodK)hilling  recital  the  words 
of  the  guilty  wretch  faltered  and  grew  hollow.  When 
the  record  was  finally  exhausted,  he  arose,  (daggered 

backward  from;  the  table,  and  fell — dead. 

m  *.*  •  *  *  *  * 

The  means  by  which  this  happily-^timed  confession 
was  extorted,  although  efficient,  were  simple  indeed.  Mr. 
Goodfellow's  excess  of  frankness  had  disgusted  me,  and 
excited  my  suspicions  from  the  first.  I  was  present  when 
Mr.  Pennifeather  had  struck  him,  and  the  fiendish  ex- 
pression which  then  arose  upon  his  countenance,  although 
momentary,  assured  me  that  his  threat  of  vengeance 
would,  if  possible,  be  rigidly  fulfilled.  I  was  thus  pre- 
pared to  view  the  maneuvering  of  **01d  Charley'*  in  a 
very  different  light  from  that  in  which  it  was  regardecl 
by  the  good  citizens  of  Battleborough.  I  saw  at  once 
that  all  the  criminating  discoveries  arose,  either  directly 
or  indirectly,  from  himself.  But  the  fact  which  clearly 
opened  my  eyes  to  the  true  state  of  the  case,  was  the  af- 
fair of  the  bullet,  found  by  Mr.  G.  in  the  carcass  of  the 
horse.    I  had  not  forgotten,  although  the  Battieburgfaers 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  QBOUP  247 

had,  that  there  was  a  hole  where  the  ball  had  entered  the 
horse,  and  another  where  it  went  out.  If  it  were  found 
in  the  animal  then,  after  having  made  its  exit,  I  saw 
clearly  that  it  must  have  been  deposited  by  the  person 
who  found  it.  The  bloody  shirt  and  handkerchief  con* 
firmed  the  idea  su^ested  by  the  bullet;  for  the  blood 
on  examination  proved  to  be  capital  claret,  and  no  more. 
When  I  came  to  think  of  these  things,  and  also  of  the 
late  increase  of  liberality  and  expenditure  on  the  part  of 
Mr.  Groodfellow,  I  entertained  a  suspicion  whixsh  was 
none  thcj  less  strong  because  I  kept  it  altogether  to  my- 
self. 

In  the  meantime,  I  instituted  a  rigorous  private 
search  f <»•  the  corpse  of  Mr.  Shuttleworthy,  and,  for  good 
reasons,  searched  in  quarters  as  divergent  as  possible 
from  those  to  which  Mr.  Goodfellow  conducted  his  party. 
The  result  was  that,  after  some  days,  I  came  across  an 
old  dry  well,  the  mouth  of  which  was  nearly  hidden  by 
brambles;  and  here,  at  the  bottom,  I  discovered  what  I 
sought. 

Now,  it  so  happened  that  I  had  overheard  the  col- 
loquy between  the  two  cronies,  when  Mr.  Goodfellow  had 
contrived  to  cajole  his  host  into  the  promise  of  a  box  of 
Chateau-Margaux.  Upon  this  hint  I  acted.  I  procured 
a  stiff  piece  of  whalebone,  thrust  it  down  the  throat  of 
the  corpse,  and  deposited  the  latter  in  an  old  wine  box — 
taking  care  so  to  double  the  body  up  as  to  double  the 
whalebone  with  it.  In  this  manner  I  had  to  press  forci- 
bly upon  the  lid  to  keep  it  down  while  I  secured  it  with 
nails ;  and  I  anticipated,  of  course,  that  as  soon  as  these 
latter  were  removed,  the  top  would  fly  off  and  the 
body  up. 


248  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NAEBATIVES 

Having  thus  arranged  the  box,  I  marked,  numbered 
and  addressed  it  as  already  told;  and- then  writing  a 
letter  in  the  name  of  the  wine  merchants  with  whom 
Mr.  Shnttleworthy  dealt,  I  gave  instructions  to  my  serv- 
ant to  wheel  the  box  to  Mr.  Qoodfellow's  door,  in  a 
barrow,  at  a  given  signal  from  toyself .  For  the  words 
which  I  intended  the  corpse  to  speak  I  confidently  de- 
pended upon  my  ventriloquial  abilities;  for  their  ef- 
fect, I  counted  upon  the  conscience  of  the  murderous 
wretch. 

I  believe  there  is  nothing  more  to  be  explained.  !Mr. 
Pennifeather  was  released  upon  the  spot,  inherited  the 
fortune  of  his  unde,  profited  by  the  lessons  of  experi- 
ence, turned  over  a  new  leaf,  and  led  happily  ever  after- 
ward a  new  life. 

— ^Edgar  Allan  Poe. 

The  Picture  of  Lliasa 

''Jim,  Jim,  eome  here  quick!  She's  in  sight!  Oh, 
hustle!'' 

* '  Well,  she'll  stay  where  she  is  lintil  I  get  there,  won't 
die?"  came  a  drawl  from  a  little  lower  down  on  the 
precipitous  jwith,  as  the  speaker,  in  spite  of  his  indiffer- 
ent words,  made  stnenuous  efforts  to  join  his  companion 
on  the  rooky  ledge  with  as  little  delay  as  possible.  Be- 
hind him,  scarcely  visible,  lay  the  trail  winding  about 
aldng  the  sides  of  the  lofty  mountains  which  have  for  so 
long  been  keeping  this  little  comer  of  the  earth  from 
the  knowledge  of  Western  nations,  while,  far  beneath 
him,  rolled  a  little  stream,  the  Kyi-chu,  which  dashetl 
against  the  rocks  as  though  it  were  impatient  to  be  out 
in  a  broader  world. 


TE[E  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GBOUP  349 

*'I'm  glad  she's  in  sight,  Chad/'  Jim  continued,  when 
he  had  gained  the  shelf  of  rock  on  which  his  companion 
stood,  -'but  what  is  she,  anyhow?  I. don't  believe  you 
said,'*  and  he  laughed,  with  his  eyes  fastened  upon  the 
flash  of  reflected  sunlight,  his  first  sight  df  Lhasa  and 
her  wonderful  Buddhist  Cathedral. 

'*Is  the  camera  all  right?'*  Chad's  voice  was  anxious* 
''It  would  be  a  pity  to  come  so  far  and  then  haye  the 
plates  no  good." 

*' What's  wrong  with  you,  Chad?  You  don't  in- 
tend to  take  a  picture  of  a  place  ten  miles  away^  do 
you?" 

**0f  course  not,  you  idiot,  but  I  wish  that  you  had 
kept  the  camera  yourself,  instead  of  leaving  it  with 
John's  load.  I  don't  like  the  look  of  his  yellow  cap  just 
now.'* 

*  *  You're  too  suspicious,  Chad.  John's  a  good  fellow  5 
aren't  you  Chinkey?"  Jim  called  out  as  an  evil-looking 
Chinaman  came  around  a  bend  in  the  trail. 

The  Chinaman's  only  response  was  a  look  of  titter 
ignorance,  at  which  Jim  laughed  again,  and  said,  ''Just 
one  look  at  the  man  ought  to*  convince  you  that  :he  is 
too  dull  to  frighten  a  Yankee.  Besides,  he  doesn't  un- 
derstand Engli&h,  and  can't  possibly  know  that  we  are 
here  to  get  the  picture  of  Lhasa,  and  that  of  the  GrAnd 
Lama,  too,  if  we  can,"  Had  either  of  the  men  been 
boking,  he  might  have  seen  the  cunning  in  the  one 
black  eye  of  the  servant ;  but  the  expression  passed  un- 
noticed. 

'/Another  day  and  we'll  be  near  enough  to  begin 
on  the  pictures.  I'll  be  glad  to  start  home,  too.  It  has 
been  a  hard  trip.     I  don't  see  why  Milligan  couldn't 


260  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NABRATIVES 

have  taken  the  pictures  for  his  book  himself,  instead 
of  sending  us  off  here  for  them." 

**Jim,  my  boy,  where 's  your  regard  for  your  daily 
bread — ^and  the  butter  therefor?  Where  should  you  be 
if  you  hadn't  had  this  chancer' 

'* Well,"  Jim  returned  quickly,  '*I  shouldn't  have 
been  ruining  my  constitution  in  this  infernal  climate, 
at  any  rate." 

Chad  looked  him  over  with  profound  gravity. 
**Well,  Jim,  I'm  glad  you  are  teUing  me  that  you  are 
cut  out  for  an  early  grave ;  I  should  never  have  believed 
it  if  you  hadn't  said  so  yourself." 

'^ Wouldn't  there  be  a  rumpus  if  the  Lama«  knew 
about  this  trip  of  oursT'  Chad  resumed  as  though  fas- 
cinated with  the  idea.  **I  can  see  ourselves  calling 
each  other  lucky  because  we  only  got  kicked  over  this 
precipice  here* " 

^*You  can  occupy  yourself  with  such  thoughts  if  you 
want  to,"  exclaimed  Jim;  **but  I'm.  going  to  hustle 
up  that  John  Chinaman.  It  seems  to  me  he's  pretty 
slow  this  evening,  and  I'm  hungry." 

**If  your  constitution  is  spoiled?"  laughed  Chad. 
**Well,  good  luck;  call  me  when  you're  ready,"  and 
the  young  reporter  threw  himself  down  upon  the  rocks 
and  looked  off  toward  Lhasa.  In  a  few  minutes  he 
heard  Jim's  voice  raised  in  alarm.  *'John!  John! 
Oh,  Jobn-n!"  As  Chad  sprang  up  and  started  along 
the  path,  he  .met  Jim  comipg  back. 

**Say,  Chad,  that  rascal  of  a  chink  has  vanished 
i?e»npletely  with  a  good  half  of  the  supplies,  and  if  you 
say,  'I  told  you  so,'  I'll  light  out  too!" 

*'Is  the  camera  safe?"  was  Chad's  instant  response. 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GROUP  gfil 

*'Why,  I  guess  so;  the  box  is  anyhow — I  didn't  look 
inside." 

**Well,  I  guess  we'll  get  along  then.  I  ought  to 
be  able  to  cook  weU  enough  to  suit  a  man  of  your 
enfeebled  condition,"  and  Chad  looked  at  Jim's  broad 
shoulders  in  some  amusement  in  spite  of  the  seriousness 
of  the  situation. 

** Really,  Chad,  is  it  safe  to  go  on?  Do  you  think 
we  ought  to  risk  it?" 

'*Eisk  it!  Are  we  going  to  take  three  months  for 
preparation,  and  then  come  four  thousand  miles  on  a 
trip  of  this  sort,  only  to  give  it  up  in  sight  of  the 
end,  because  a  rogue  runs  oflf?    Well,  I  guess  not." 

*'AIl  right,"  Jim  returned  laconically,  **I  just  want- 
ed to  know  how  you  felt  about  it. ' ' 

Some  three  hours  later  the  two  men  were  wrapped 
up  in  their  furs  ready  for  the  night.  '*Say,  Chad," 
said  Jim,  sb  he  lay  watching  the  stars  in  the  clear  sky, 
*'what  makes  a  Chinaman  so  afraid  of  a  camera?  I 
am  quite  certain  that  you  never  told  me." 

**I  believe  that  they  think  a  man's  soul  is  killed 
when  his  picture  is  taken,"  said  Chad  sleepily. 
''  'Buddha  doesn't  like  it'  is  quite  reason  enough  for 
most  of  'em."  The  last  sentence  was  half  lost  in  a 
snore,  and  the  Grand  Lama  was  photographed  a  dozen 
times  in  Jim's  dreams. 

The  next  morning  the  two  men  set  out  again  with 
the  one  donkey  and  its  load  which  the  Chinaman  left 
to  them,  and,  after  a  few  hours'  hard  travel,  they  came 
to  the  mountain  spur  just  above  the  capital  of  Tibet. 
The  city  was  well  within  range,  and  a  few  minutes  after 
they  had  arrived  the  camera  was  set  up,  and  Chad  was 


252  TYPES  OP  PBOSE  NABEATIVES 

finding  the  focus.  While  they  were  both  occupied  busily, 
a  group  of  yellow-clad  figures  was  approaching  from  a 
lamasery  that  was  half-hidden  on  the  mountainside.  The 
leader  of  the  band,  a  one-eyed  Chinaman  with  an  al- 
inost  idiotic  expression,  was  evidently  greatly  respected 
by  his  followers ;  for  the  party  did  not  change  its  posi- 
tion without  his  direction.  Slowly  and  with  the  utmost 
caution  they  approached  the  unconscious  workers  and 
surrounded  them ;  then  with  a  yell  the  niob  of  Buddhist 
priests  was  about  the  camera.  In  another  instant  it  was 
rattling  down  the  mountainside,  Chad  and  Jim.  were 
firmly  bound,  and  the  march  back  had  begun. 

The  few  rays  of  sunlight  that  found  entrance  into 
the  Buddhist  lamasery  served  only  to  reveal  the  filthi- 
ness  of  the  place;  but  not  even  the  disgusting  sights 
and  odors  could  suppress  the  strangers^  curiosity.  In 
the  first  room  was  an  immense  statue  of  Buddha  with  a 
large  cylinder  in  front  of  it.  **A  prayer  wheel,'*  whis- 
pered Chad.    Jim  nodded. 

Suddenly  Chad's  eyes  flafehed  with  an  inspii^tion. 
Turning  to  the  leader  he  exclaimed,  *'You  speak  Eng- 
lish now,  don't  you?" 

The  man  bowed  gravely,  courteously.  The  honorable 
strangers'  honorable  conversation  was  greatly  edifying, 
he  murmured.  ' 

''Well,  then,"  Chad  continued,  ''Will  you  tell  me 
why  we  are  detained  here?" 

' '  The  insignifieiant  custom  of  the  Tibetans  is  to  re- 
sent having  their  souls  destroyed."  The  voice  was  calm 
and  matter-of-<Eact,  but  the  words  w'ere  terrible  to  the 
two  men  looking  into  the  circle  of  hostile  faces  which 
showed  so  clearly  their  superstition  and  ignorance. 


THE  INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GBOUP  263 

'^You  know,  John,  or  Your  Highness,  if  that  suits 
your  present  position  better,^'  the  Chinaman's  face  re- 
mained impassive,  **you  know  how  cai^e  fully  we  guard- 
ed the  Uaok  box«  Did  you  know  that  it  was  not  an 
ordinary  instrument,  but  the  home  of  a  spirit  more  pow- 
erful than  even  your  Buddha  there  ?  The  photographic 
spirit  is  the  child  of  the  Fire  God,  and  the  Fire  God 
protects  all  who  guard  his  children.  See,  here  is  a  part 
of  the  Spirit's  house,''  and  Chad  pulled  an  extra  lens 
from  his  poefcet.  ''With  this  I  can  attract  the.  god's 
attention,  and  he  will  do  my  bidding."  He  placed 
the  glass  in  the  sunlight  and  the  robe  of  the  nearest 
Lama  began  to  smolder.  The  priests  started  back  in 
great  alarm,  but  Chad  continued  with  only  a  sufficient 
numbe;r  of  pauses  for  the  leading  Lama  to  translate  to 
the  others.  '  *  While  you  were  masquerading  as  my  serv- 
ant, you.  saw  how  careful  I  was  of  the  camera;  you 
can  judge  for  yourself  whether  or  not  the  Fiery  One 
will  protect  me.  What  do  you  think  will  be  the  fate 
of  you  who  have  destroyed  this  mighty  spirit's  home? 
I  will  tell  you.  He  will  descend  from  the  sky  and  will 
bum  you  with  a  hotter  fire  than  you  have  ever  felt — 
a  fire  so  hot  that  the  spirit  of  the  camera  cannot  ap- 
proach it  in  intensity."  And  the  Lama  screamed  as  he 
felt  the  heat  of  the  powerful  ray  upon  his  arm.  ''What 
do  you  think?  Will  you  anger  this  mighty  one  by  fur- 
ther crimes  against  his  favorites?" 

"Buddha  will  protect  us,"  stolidly  responded  a 
priest. 

"Ask  your  leader  if  Buddha  could  protect  him 
from  the  burning  of  the  camera  spirit,  and  then  judge 


254  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

whether  Buddha  can  guard  you  against  the  power  of 
the  Fire  Dragon  when  he  is  roused  to  vengeance. 

Panic  began  to  seize  upon  the  priests.  One  by  one 
they  disappeared  until  at  length  only  the  Chief  Lama 
was  left.  **If  the  honorable  gentlemen  will  tarry  for 
a  few  moments  I  will  bring  them  their  beasts.''  When 
the  donkeys  were  brought  in,  Chad  looked  their  packs 
over  and  prepared  them  for  the  journey,  while  Jim 
started  back  to  the  ledge,  hoping  that  part  of  their 
supplies  might  have  been  unmolested.  When  Chad  came 
around  the  rock  ten  minutes  later,  he  stopped  in  amaze- 
ment and  stared  at  the  camera,  which  Jim  had  rescued 
from  the  tree  in  which  it  had  lodged  uninjured  save 
for  a  broken  plate. 

As  Chad  approached,  Jim  looked  up  and  said,  *^IVe 
got  one;  I'll  bet  it's  a  dandy!" 

—Hazel  Oreutt 


CHAPTER  IV 

THE  ENTERTAINING  GROUP 

In  the  group  "entertaining"  we  may  class  all  those 
narratives  that  are  told  simply  for  the  purpose  of 
pleasing  the  reader  and  passing  away  his  time  for  him 
— tales  of  probable  adventure,  society  stories,  humorous 
stories,  and  stbries  for  special  occasions,  like  Thanks- 
giving'and  Christmas.  The  bulk  of  magazine  fiction 
is  of  this  kind.  The  chief  endeavor  of  the  writer  is  to 
create  the  illusions  of  probability  for  a  series  of  events 
that  after  all  is  imaginary.  However  numerous  may 
be  the  actual  incidents  embodied,  the  course  of  the 
happening  as  a  whole  is  nevertheless  made-up.  There 
is  always  a  heightening  or  lowering  of  natural  color,  a 
modification  of  real  occurrences,  in  order  to  produce 
the  desired  eflPect;  namely,  acceptance  by  the  reader  of 
the  whole  series,  and  especially  the  climax,  which  may 
be,  for  instance,  the  capture  of  the  wild  animal,  the 
culmination  of  the  love  episode,  the  emphasis  of  the 
funny  point,  or  the  accident  at  the  special  celebration. 

I.    The  Tale  of  Probable  Adventiure 

Adventure  narratives  are  essentially  boys'  stories — 
the  grammar  and  high  school  boys  who  are  past  the 
''foolishness"  of  fairy  tales  and  even  of  Oriental 
wonder  stories,  but  are  not  yet  appreciative  of  realism, 

255 


256  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

the  quiet  reflection  of  humdrum  life.  For  many  decades 
The  Youth's  Companion  has  furnished  among  its  other 
good  things  excellent  stories  of  adventure  probable 
and  actual.  Stevenson's  masterpiece  is,  of  course,  one' 
of  the  two  top-notches  of  excellence  in  the  extended 
form  of  this  type  of  story.  How  the  species  may  be 
historically  but  a  modification  of  the  vdyages  imagi- 
naires  is  obviously  suggested  no  less  by  **  Treasure 
Island''  than  by  **Kobinson  Crusoe."  It  is  the  short 
form  of  this  type  that  we  are  dealing  with  at  present. 

Stories  of  probable  adventure  are  narratives  of 
exciting  and  extraordinary,  events  that,  though  really 
fictitious,  might  have  happened.  We  can  teil 
many  of  them  from  true  adventures  only  by 
the  testii?iony  of  the  authors.  '* Captain  Singleton's  Tour 
Across  Africa,"  critics  have  said,  seems  to  the  general 
reader  quite  as  true  an  account  as  Stanley's;  while  the 
^'Memoirs  of  a  Cavalier," ;which  records  the  adventures 
pf  a  soldier  in  the  army  of  Gustavus  Adolphus,  was 
long  mistaken  for  autobiography. 

To  write  a  tale  of  this  kind  you  must  put  yourself 
into  the  mood  of  the  bold  hunter  or  traveller.  You 
ipiie  must  imagine  exciting  things.    Many  of  your 

writing  own  experiences  have  just  missed  being 
.proWaWe  astounding*  Add  what -might -have -been, 
adventure  and  you  have  a  story  of  the  type  we  are 
discussing^  You  catch  the  be^ir  or  the  bear  catches 
you.  You  swim  across  a  turbulent  river.  You  spend 
the  night  on  an  iceberg.  You  coast  down  the  frightful 
curves  of  the  twenty-five  miles  of  the  Benguet  road 
with  the  steering  gear  of  your  automobile  entirely 
useless.    Remember,  though,  that  the  adventure  must 


THE  ENTERTAINING  GROUP  257 

seem  real,  howeyer  much  you  have  drawn  on  your 
reading  and  imagination.  You  must  know  enough  of 
animal,  plant,  and  human  life,  and  of  geography,  to  be 
particular  here  and  there  and  thus  give  verisimilitude 
to  your  pictures.  In  order  to  get  a  subject,  suppose 
you  think  of  what  you  consider  the  braviest  physical 
act;  then. build  up  around  it  a  swift,  crisp  narrative* 
You  may  use  technical  terms  once  in  a  while,  such  as  a 
nervous  story-teller  would  be  likely  to  fling  off  and 
then  explain;  only  be  sure  they  are  intelligible  very 
soon. 

An  ordinary  imagination  supplemented  by  a  ''Bae- 
deker'^ will  enable  any  one  to  construct  an  acceptable 
probable  adventure.  Superior  excellence  will  lie  in  the 
diction  and  style. 

Because  of  the  prevalence  of  this  kind  of  narrative, 
you  will  need  to  guard  yourself  with  especial  care 
against  the  temptation  to  plagiarize.  Be  sure  • 
that  your  certification  of  authorship  really  /^^^^^ 
tells  the  truth.  It  is  easier  to  be  original  than  you  think ; 
as  George  Bernard  Shaw  says,  any  man  with  brains  can 
more  easily  compose  a  story  or  a  play  than  stea-l  one, 

A  Fight  with  a  Bear 
One  day,  being  in  a  forest  a  few  leagues  from  Dus- 
seldorf,  as  Gerard  Was  walking  like  one  Ui  a  dream, 
thinking  of  Margaret  and  scarce  seeing  the  road  he  trod, 
his  companion  laid  a  hand  on  his  shoulder,  and  strung 
his  cross-bow  with  glittering  eye.  *'Hushl"  said  he, 
in  a  low  whisper  that  startled  Gerard  more  than  thun- 
der. Gerard  grasped  his  axe  tight,  and  shoofc  a  little; 
he  heard  a  rustling  in  the  wood  hard  by,  and  at  the 


258  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

same  moment  Denys  sprang  into  the  wood,  and  his  cross- 
bow went  to  his  shoulder,  even  as  he  jumped.  Twang! 
went  the  metal  string;  and  after  an  instant's  suspense 
he  roared,  **Run  forward,  guard  the  road!  he  is  hit! 
he  is  hit!'' 

Gerard  darted  forward,  and,  as  he  ran,  a  young  bear 
burst  out  of  the  wood  right  \:^on  him;  finding  itself 
intercepted,  it  went  upon  its  hind  legs  with  a  snarl, 
and,  though  not  half-grown,  opened  formidable  jaws 
and  long  claws,  Gerard,  in  a  fuiy  of  excitement  ajid 
agitation,  flung  himself  on  it,  and  delivered  a  tremen- 
dous blow  on  its  nose  with  his  axe,  and  the  creature 
staggered;  another,  and  it  lay  groveling,  with  Gerard 
hacking  it. 

** Hallo,  stop!    You  are  mad  to  spoil  the  meat." 

*^I  took  it  for  a  robber,"  said  Gerard,  panting. 
*'I  mean  I  had  made  ready  for  a  robber,  so  I  could 
not  hold  my  hand." 

^^Ay,  these  chattering  travelers  have  stuffed  your 
head  full  of  thieves  and  assassins;  they  have  not  got 
a  real  live  robber  in  their  whole  nation.  Nay,  I'll  carry 
the  beast;  bear  you,  though,  my  cross-bow." 

'*We  will  carry  it  by  turns,  then,"  said  Gerard, 
**for  'tis  a  heavy  load;  poor  thing,  how  its  blood  drips. 
Why  did  we  slay  it?" 

**For  supper  and  the  reward  the  baillie  of  the  next 
town  shall  give  us." 

*'And  for  that  it  must  die,  when  it  had  but  just 
begun  to  live;  and  perchance  it  hath  a  mother  that 
wiU  miss  it  sore  this  night,  and  loves  it  as  ours  love 
us;  more  than  mine  does  me." 

'*What^  know  you  not  that  his  mother  was  caught 


THE  ENTERTAINING  GROUP  259 

in  a  pitfall  last  month,  and  her  skin  is  now  at  the 
tanner's?  and  his  father  was  stuck  full  of  clothyard 
shafts  t'other  day,  and  died  like  Julius  CaBsar,  with  his 
hands  folded  on  his  bosom,  and  a  dead  dog  in  each  of 
themT' 

But  Gerard  would  not  view  it  jestingly.  ^'Why, 
then,"  said  he,  **we  have  killed  one  of  God's  creatures 
that  was  all  alone  in  the  world — ^as  I  am  this  day,  in 
this  strange  land." 

'^You  young  milksop,"  roared  DenyTB,  "these  things 
must  not  be  looked  at  so,  or  not  another  bow  would  be 
drawn  nor  quarel  fly  in  the  forest  nor  battlefield.  Why, 
one  of  your  kidney  consorting  with  a  troop  of  pike- 
men  should  turn  them  to  a  row  of  milk  pails;  it  is 
ended ;  to  Rome  thou  goest  not  alone ;  for  never  wouldst 
thou  reach  the  Alps  in  a  whole  bMxl  I  take  thee  to 
Remiremont,  my  native  place,  and  there  I  marry  thee 
to  my  young  sister.  She  is  blooming  as  a  peaeh.  Thou 
shak^st  thy  head?  Ah!  I  forgot;  thou  lovest  elsewhere, 
and  art  a  one-woman  man,  a  creature  to  me  scarce 
conceivable.  Well,  then,  I  shall  find  thee,  not  a  wife, 
nor  a  leman,  but  a  friend;  some  honest  Burgundian 
who  shall  go  with  thee  as  far  as  Lyons;  and  much  I 
doubt  that  honest  fellow  will  be  myself,  into  whose 
hquor  thou  ha^t  dropped  sundry  powders  to  make  me 
love  thee;  for  erst  I  endured  not  doves  in  doublet  and 
hose.  From  Lyons,  I  say,  I  can  trust  thee  by  ship  to 
Italy,  which  being  by  all  accounts  the  very  strong- 
hold of  milksops,  thou  wilt  there  be  safe;  they  will 
hear  thy  words,  and  make  thee  their  duke  in  a  twink- 
ling/' 

Gerard  sighed.    "In  sooth  I  love  not  to  think  of 


260  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

this  Dusseldorf ,  where  we  are  to  part  company,  good 
friend." 

They  walked  silently,  each  thinking  of  the  separa- 
tion at  hand;  the  thought  checked  trifling  conversa- 
tion, and  at  these  moments  it  is  a  relief  to  do  some- 
thing, however  insignificant.  Gerard  asked  Denys  to 
lend  him  a  bolt.  **I  have  often  shot  with  a  long-bow, 
bnt  never  with  one  of  these." 

''Draw  thy  knife  and  cut  this  one  out  of  the  cub*'* 
said  Denys  slyly. 

**Nay,  nay,  I  want  a  clean  one." 

Denys  glave  him  three  out  of  his  quiver. 

Gerard  strung  the  bow  and  leveled  It  at  a  bough 
that  had  fallen  into  the  road  at  somse  distance.  The 
power  of  the  instrument  stirprised  hxm;  the  Sfhort  but 
thick  steel  bow  jarred  him  to  the  very  heel  as  it  went 
off,  and:  the  swift  steel  shaft  was  invisible  in  its  pas- 
sage. Only  the  dead  leaves,  with  which  November 
had  carpeted  the  narrow  road,  flew  about  on  the  other 
side  of  the  bough. 

^'Ye  aimed  a  thought  too  high,"  said  Denys. 

**What  a  deadly  thing!  No  wonder  it  is  driving 
dut  the  long-bow- — ^to  Martin's  much  discontent." 

'*Ay,  lad,"  siaid  Denys,  triumphantly,  **it  gains 
ground  every  day,  in.  spite  of  their  laws  and  their 
t)roclamations  to  keep  up  the  yewen  bow,  because,  for- 
sooth, their  grandsireSi  shot  with  it,  knowing  bo  bet- 
ter. You  see,  Gerard,  war  is  not  pastime.  Men  will 
shoot  at  their  enemies  with  the  hittingest  arm  and  the 
killingest,  not  with  the  longest  and  mia^ingest. '.' 

**Then  these  new  engines  I  hear  of  will  put  both 
bows  down;  for  these,  with  a  pinch  of  black  dust  ajid 


.THE  ENTEBTAINING  GROUP  261 

a  leaden  ball,  and  a  child's  finger,  shall  slay  you  Mars 
and  Goliath  and  the  Seven  Champions." 

**Pooh!  pooh!''  said  Denys,  warmly;  '^petrone  nor 
harqnebtiss  shall  ev^r  put  down  Sir  Arbalest.  Why,  we 
can  shoot  ten  times  while  they  are  putting  their  char- 
coal and  their  lead  into  thei^  leathern  smote  belchers, 
and  then  kindling  their  matches.  All  that  is  too  fum- 
bling for  the  field  of  battle;  there  a  isoldier's  weapon 
needs  be  aye  ready,  like  his  heart." 

Gerard  did  not  answer,  for  his  ear  Was  attracted 
by  a  sound  behind  them.  It  was  a  peculiar  sound,  too, 
like  something  heavy,  but  not  hard,  rushing  softly  over 
the  dead  leaves.  He  turned  round  with  some  little  curi- 
osity. A  colossal  creature  was  coming  down  the  road  at 
about  sixty  paces  distance. 

He  looked  at  it  in  a  sort  of  calm  stupor  at  first; 
but  the  next  moment,  he  turned  ashy  pale. 

*'Denys!"  he  cried..   ^'OGod!    Denys!" 

Denys  whirled  round. 

It  was  a  bear  as  big  as  a  cart  horse. 

It  was  tearing  along  with  its  huge  head  down,  run- 
ning on  a  hot  scent. 

The  very  moment  he  saw  it,  Denys  said  in  a  sicken- 
ing whisper:    . 

'^The  cub!'/.  .  . 

Oh!  the  concentrated  horror  of  that  one  word,  whis- 
pered hoarsely^  with  dilating  eyes  I  For  in  that  syllable 
it  aU  flashed  upon  •>  them  bothi  like  a  sudden  stroke  of 
lightning  in  the  dark — ^the  bloody  trail,  the  murdered 
cub,  the  mother  upon  them,  and  it.    DEATH, 

All  this  in  a  moment  of  time.  The  next  she  saw 
them.    Huge  as  she  was,,  she  seemed  to  double  herself 


262  TYPES  OP  PBOSE  NARRATIVES 

(it  was  her  long  hair  bristling  with  rage) ;  she  raised 
her  head  big  as  a  btill's^  her  swine-shaped  jawB  opened 
wide  at  them,  her  eyes  tamed  to  blood  and  flame,  and 
she  rushed  upon  them,  scattering  the  leaves  about  her 
like  a  whirlwind  as  she  came. 

''Shoot!"  screamed  D^nys,  but  Oerard  stood  shak- 
ing from  head  to  foot,  iisele8& 

''Shoot,  man!  ten  thousand  devils,  shoot!  Too  late! 
Tree!  tree!"  and  he  dropped  the  cub,  pushed  Crerard 
across  the  road,  and  flew  to  the  first  tree  and  elimbed 
it,  Gerard  the  same  on  his  side ;  and,  as  they  fled,  both 
men  uttered  inhuman  howls  like  savage  creatures  grazed 
by  death. 

With  all  their  speed  (me  or  other  would  have  been 
torn  to  fragments  at  the  foot  of  his  tree;  but  the  bear 
stopped  a  moment  at  the  cub. 

Without  taking  her  bloodshot  eyes  off  those  she  was 
hunting,  she  smelt  it  all  round,  and  found,  how,  her 
Creator  only  knows,  that  it  was  dead,  quite  dead,  fihe 
gave  a  yell  such  as  neither  of  the  hunted  ones  had  ever 
heard,  nor  dreamed  to  be  in  nature,  and  flew  after 
Denys.  She  reared  and  struck  at  him  as  he  elimbed.  He 
was  just  out  of  reach. 

Instantly  she  seized  the  tree,  and  with  her  huge 
teeth  tore  a  great  piece  out  of  it  with  a  crash.  Then  she 
reared  again,  dug  her  elaws  deep  into  the  bark  and 
began  to  mount  it  slowly,  but  as  surdy  as  a  monkey. 

Denys 's  evil  star  had  led  him  tb  a  dead  tree,  a  mere 
shaft,  and  of  no  very  great  height.  He  climbed  faster 
than  his  pursuer,  and  was  soon  at  the  top.  He  looked 
this  way  and  that  for  dome  bough  of  another  tree  to 
luring  to.     There  was  none;  and  if  he  juxoped  down 


THE  BNTBBTAINING  GROUP  363 

he  knew  the  bear  would  be  upon  him  ere  he  could 
recover  the  faU,  and  make  sdiort  work  of  him.  More- 
over, Deays  was  little  used  to  turning  his  bads  on  dan- 
ger, and  his  blood  was  rising  at  being  hunted.  He 
turned  to  bay. 

**My  hour  is  come/'  thought  he.  '*Let  me  meet 
death  like  a  man."  He  kneeled  down  and  grasped  a 
small  shoot  to  steady  himself,  drew  his  long  knife,  and 
clenching  his  teeth,  prepared  to  job  the  huge  brute  asi 
soon  as  it  should  mount  within  reaeh. 

Of  this  combat  the  result  was  not  donbtftd* 

The  monster^s  head  and  neck  wejre  scarce  vulaarabie 
for  bone  and  masses  of  hair.  The  man  wa$  goiog  to 
sting  the  bear,  and  the  bear  to  crack  tb^  man  like  a 
nut. 

Grcrard's  heart  was  better  than  his  nerves.  He.  »w 
his  friend's  mortal  danger,  and  passed  at  once  Irom. 
fear  to  blindish  rage.  He  slipped  down  his  tree  in  a 
moment,  caught  up  the  crosa^bow  which  he  had  dropped 
in  the  road,  and,  running  furiously  up,  sent  a  bolt. into 
the  bear's  body  with  a  loud  shout;  The  bear  gave  a 
snarl  of  rage  aaad  pain  and  turned  its  head  irresolutely.. 

''Keep  aloof,"  cried  Denys,  **or  you  are  a  dead 
naan." 

''I  care  not,"  and  in  a  moment  he  had  another  bolt 
ready  and  shot  it  fiercely  into  the  bear,  sereaming  ''Take 
that!  that!  that!'" 

Denys  poured  a  volley  of  oaths  down  at  him.  *'Gtet. 
away,  idiot!" 

He  was  right ;  the  bear  finding  so  formidable  and 
noisy  a  foe  behind  him,  slipped  growling  down  the  tree> 
rending  deep  furrows  in  it  as  she  slipped.    Gerard  ran 


264  TYE^ES  OF  PBOSE  NABRATIVES 

back  to  his  tree  and  climbed  it  swiftly.  But  while  his 
legs  were  dangling  some  eight  feet  from  the  ground  the 
bear  came  rearing  and  struck  with  her  forex)aw,  and 
out  flew  a  piece  of  bloody  cloth  from  Gerard's  hose.  He 
climbed  and  climbed,  and  presently  he  heard  as  it  were 
in  the  air  a  voice  say,  **Go  out  on  the  bough!*'  He 
looked,  and  there  was  a  long  tnassive  branch  before 
him  shooting  upwards  at  a  slight  aligl^;  he  threw  his 
body  across  it,  and  by  a  series  of  convulsive  efforts 
worked  up  it  to  the  end. 

Then  he  looked  round  panting. 

The  bear  was  mounting  the  tree  on  the  other  side. 
He  heard  her  claws  scrape,  and  saw  her  bulge  on  both 
sides  of  the  massite  tree.  Her  eye  not  being  very  <iuick, 
she  reached  the  fork  and  passed  it,  mounting  the  main 
stem.  Gerard  drew  breath  niore  freely.  The  bear 
either  heard  him  or  found  by  scent  she  was  wrong; 
she  paused;  presently  she  caught  sight  of  him.  She 
eyed  him  steadily,  then  quietly  descended  to  the  fork. 

Slowly  and  cautiously  she  stretched  out  a  paw  and 
tri^d  the  bough.  It  walsT  a  stiff  oak  branch,  sound  as 
iron.  Insthict  tsiugbt  th«  ^Ji^eature  this;  it  crawled  care- 
fully out  on  the  bough,  growling  savagely  as  it  came. 

Gerard  looked  wildly  down.  He  was  forty  feet  from 
the  ground.  Death  below.  DeaA  moving  stow  but  sure 
on  him  in  a  still  more  'horrible  form.  His  hair  bristled. 
The  sweat  poured  from  him.  He  sat  helpless,  fasci- 
nated, tongu^itied. 

As  the  fearful  monster  crawled  growling  towards 
him,  incongruous  thoughts  cours^ '  through  Ms  mind. 
Margaret,  the  Vulgate,  whcife  it  speaks  of  the  rage  of  a 
she-bear  robbed  of  ller  whelps-^Rdme^— Eternity. 


THE  ENTERTAINING  GROUP  265 

The  bear  ci^awled  on.  And  now  the  stupor  of  death 
fell  on  the  doomed  man;  he  saw  the  open  jaws  and 
bloodshot  ey^s  coming,  but  in  a  mist. 

As  in  a  mist  he  heard  a  twang;. he  glanced  down; 
Denys,  White  and  silent  as  death,  was  shooting  up  at 
the  b^ar.  The  bear  snarled  at  the  twang;  but  crawled 
on.  Again  the  cross-bow  twanged ;  and  the  bear  snarled 
and  came  nearer.  Again  the  cross-bow  twanged,  and 
the  next  moment  the  bear  was  close  upon  Gerard,  where 
he  sat,  with  hair  standing  stiff  on  end,  and  eyes  start- 
ing from  their  ^sockets,  palsied.  The  bear  opened,  her 
jaws  like  a  grave,  and  hot  blood  spouted  from  them  upon 
Gerard  as  from  b.  punip.  The  bough  rocked.  The 
wounded  monster  was  reeling ;  it  clung,  it  stuck  its  sickles 
of  clkws  de<^  into  the  wood;  it  toppled,  its  claws  held 
firm,  but  its  body  rolled  off,  and  the  sudden  shock  to 
the  branch  shook  Gerard  forward  on  his  stomach  with 
his  face  upcW-  one-  of  the  beards  straining  paws.  At 
this,  by  a  ct^nvulsive  effort,  she  raised  her  head  up,  up, 
till  he  felt  her  hot  fetid  breath.  Then  huge  teeth 
snapped  together  loudly  close  below  him  in  the  air, 
with  a  last  etfort  of  baffled  hate.  The  ponderous  car- 
cass rent  the  claws  out  o£  the  boughs;  then  pounded 
the  earth  with'  a  treMendcus  thump*  There  was  a  shout 
of  triumph  below,  and  the  rery  next  instant  a  cry  of 
dismetYy  for  Gerard  had  swooned,  and,  without  an  at- 
tempt to  save  himself,  rolled  headlong  from  the  perilous 
height. 

Denys  caught  at  Gerard  and  somewhat  checked  his 
fall';  but  it  may  be  doubted  whether  this  alone  would  have 
saved  him  from  breaking  his  neck  or  a  limb.  His  best 
friend  now  was  the  dying  bear,  on  whose  hairy  car- 


2ftG  TYPES  OF  PBOSB  NABBATIVES 

cass  his  head  and  edioulders  descended.  Denys  tore  him 
off  her.  It  was*  needless-  She  panted  still,  and  her  limbs 
quivered,  but  a  hare  was  not  so  harmless ;  and  soon  she 
breathed  her  last,  and  the  judicious  Denys  propped 
Gerard  up  against  her,  being  soft,  and  fanned  him.  He 
came  to  by  degrees,  but  confused,  and  feeling  the  bear 
all  round  him,  rolled  away,  yelling. 

'* Courage,"  cried  Denys,  ^'le  diable  est  mort.^* 
•  '*Is  it  dead,  quite  dead?"  inquired  Gerard   from 
behind  a  tree;  for  his  courage  was  feverish,  and  the 
cold  fit  was  on  him  just  now^  and  had  been  for  some 
time. 

** Behold,"  said  Denys,  and  pulled  the  brute's  ear 
playfully,  and  opened  her  jaws  and  pu4;  in  hifi  head, 
with  other  insulting  antics;  in  the  midst  of  which  Gre- 
rard  was  violently  sick. 

Denys  laughed  at  him. 

**  What  is  the  matter  now?"  said  he;  **also,  why 
tumble  off  your  perch  just  when  we  had  won  the' day?" 

'*I  swooned,  I  trow." 

**Butwhy?" 

Not  receiving  an  answer,  he  continued,  **  Green  girls 
faint  as  soon  as  look  at  yoij,  but  then  they  choose  time 
and  place.    What  woman  ever  fainted  up  a  tree?" 

**She  sent  her  nasty  blood  all  over  me.  I  think  the 
smell  must  have  overpowered  me.  Faugji!  I  hate 
blood." 

**I  do  believe  it  potently." 

**See  what  a  mess  she  has  made  me !" 

**But  with  her  blood,  not  yours.  I  pity  the  enemy 
that  strives  to  satisfy  you." 


THE  ENTBRTAlNINa  GEOUP  267 

**You  need  not  to  brag,  Maitre  Deny*;  I  s^w  you 
under  the  tree,  the  color  of  your  shirt/' 

**Let  us  distinguish,"  said  Denys  cokiring;  *4t  is 
permitted  to  tremble  for  a  friend." 

Gerard,  for  answer,  flung  his  arm  around  ©enys's 
neck  in  silence. 

— Charles  Beade. 

From  ''The  Cloister  and  the  Hearth," 

Tlie  Secret  of  tlie  Jade  TIbIoc 

''If  only  this  paper  on  jade  were  finished!"  sighed 
tall,  dignified,  blond  Dolores.  **  These  notes  sound  so 
interesting,  'Jade  implements,'  "  she  read,  ''  'found  in 
Mexico — source  of  mineral  not  yet  discovered — ^theory 
that  implements,  are  relics  of  Eastern  invasion  disproved 
— jade  said  to  exist  in  America.'  My!  I  do  think 
jade,  is  the  mx^t  ddigiitful  subject  for  investigaticm. " 

"Um-m!"  JJlsa,  who,  like  her  Spanish  mother,  was 
small,  quick,  dark,  and  adventure-loving,  did  not  con- 
sider jade  a  partweularly  fascinating  topic  for  study. 
*'Now  if — we — a— we — a "  she  ruminated. 

"If  we — a ^r'    Dolores's  sentences  were  always 

clearly  thought  out  before  she  spoke  them. 

"If  we— a — ^uow  if  we  could  finish  that  paper,  we 
might  be  able  to  sell  it,  you  know,"  Elsa  went  on.  "We 
certainly  haven't  im  enviably  large  fortune."  She 
reached  into  one  of  the  dark  pigeon-holes  of  her  father's 
ponderous  desk.  "Ook-ook!"  she  pursed  up  her  full 
red  lips,  as  she  held  a  yellow  scroll  from  her  and  gin- 
gerly fliicked  away  the  dust  which  had  collected  upon 
it  since  her  father's  death.  "Now  here's  what  I  caH 
interesting.     An  old  letter  or  something,  written  on 


268  TYPES  OP  PBOSE  NARRATIVES 

agave-leaf  paper/'  I^rom  their  long  association  with 
their  father  in  his  archeoilogical  researches,  the  girls  had 
gained  a  more  than  superficial  knowledge  of  Aztec  cus- 
toms and  antiquities.  **  *We,  the  Aztecs,  are  a  proud 
race,'"  she  readily  translated.  *'  *It  is  not  for  the 
Spaniards  to  glory  in  complete  victory  over  tis,  for 
though  they  have  conquered  our  bodies,  they  have  not 
conquered ,  our  spirits.  Well  may  they  rejoice  in  the 
ruining  of  our  beautiful  cities.  But  when  they  search, 
and  search  in  vain,  for  the  'wealth  which  they  know 
has  been  ours,  how  they  will  rage!  But  their  anger 
shall  be  as  vain  as  their  searching;  Those  of  us  who 
are  left  will  not  see  the  irivaders  glorying  in  what  was 
once  the  sple!ndor  of  the  Aztecs.  Rather  will  we  bury, 
and  hide  from  all  future  generations,  if  need  be,  the  se- 
crets of  our  tiches.  It  is  that  my  descendants  may  one 
day  scoff  at  the  descendants  of  those  who  have  made 
me,  who  was  a  prince,  a  slave,  that  I  am  making  this 
record.  Among  the  inountains  which  the  Spaniards  have 
called  the  **Corderillas"  is  one  in  whose  top  is  a  hole 
of  great  depthj  from  which  it  is  said,  there  once  flowed 
streams  of  liquid  fire,  the  vengeance  of  the  gods  upon 
the  people.  This  niomitain  stands  between  two  sister 
mountains  of  far  greater  height  than  itself,  and  is  near 
the  middle  of  the  range.'  "Why,  that  might  be  Ahual- 
taper,  right  near  here."  Elsa  had  the  topography  of 
the  country  arotmd  their  home  very  clearly  mapped 
out  in  her  mind: 

Dolores  liodded.    *  *  Go  on, "  she  said. 

**  *  Half-way  up  the  side^  which  faces  the  rising 
sun,'  "  Elsa  continued,  '*  'is  a  ledge,  upon  which  is  a 
rock,  apparently  one  with  the  mountainside,    and  in 


THE  ENTERTAINING  GROUP     .  269 

which,  when  viewed  from  a  distance,  caii  be  seen  a  re- 
semblance to  the  cross  of  Tlaloc;  One  d,ay  a  descendant 
of  mine  will  find  and  displace  thid  rock;  whereupon, 
the  entrance  to  the  tomb  of  my  ancestors  will  be  re- 
vealed. There  are  many  such  tombs  and  mai^  such 
mountains  as  those  which  I  have  described,  but  which 
I  have  not  named.,  However,  in  the  particular. burial 
place  to  which  I  refer  is  a  jade  image  of  the  god  Tlaloc. 
It  is  studded  with  valuable  turquoise.  Where  this  image 
is  found  will  also  be  found  what  should.be  the  source 
of  untold  wealth  to  the  discoverer.  • 

**  *In  warning,  let  me  say  that  none  but  the  eldest 
son  of  a  family  must  ever  know  of  this  document ;  and 
should  he  be  tempted,  ever,  to  part  with  it,  let  him 
remember  that  bodily  want  is  preferable  to  the  curses 
of  the  dead!'".  .   . 

The  two  girls  remained  silent  for  a  few  moments. 
*'Well,"  asked  Etoa,  at  last,  ''what  do  you  think  of 
thatt^' 

Dolores  turned  again  to  the  desk.  ''It  is  interest- 
ing,** she  replied,  "but  of  what  use  can  it  ever  be  to 
ust  We  could  never  .find,  the  place.  Why,  we've  been 
in  dozens  of  burial  grottos  already,  and  they  are  all 
pretty  much  alike:*'  She  opened  another  drawer.  "Here 
is  father's  diary." 

The  book  fell  open  at  the  page,  upon  which  the 
last  entry  had  been  made.  "  'May  15' — ^the  day  father 
became  ijl — ^'poor  wrinkled  old  Gomez  died  today,'  " 
she  read.  "  'He  wanted  to  give  me  information  about 
a  jade  Tlaloc,  some  famous  image  which  has  been  lost. 
He  tried  with  his  last  breath  to  do  me  the  service  of 
aiding  me  in  my  research.    He  gave  me  also  a  very  an* 


270  TYPES  OF  PEOSE  NABBATIVES 

cient  manuscript.  I  do  not  know  where  he  got  it.  I 
hardly  feel  equal,  to-night,  to  the  task  of  translating  it. 
Perhaps  Elsa  will  do  the  translation  tomorrow.  If  I 
could  find  such  an  idol,  it  would  be  of  great  value  to 
me  in  my  treatise  on  jade.'  '* 

Elsa  waited  long  enough  only  for  Dolores  to  stop 
reading.    '^Dolores,  we  must  find  that  idoL" 

Dolores  looked  gravely  at  her  sister.  *'This  is  really 
a  serious  matter,  Elsa.  It  would  save  us  from  the  ne- 
cessity of  working  if  we  eould  find  it.  Blit  how  can 
you  and  I  alone  accomplish  anything^  We  should  have 
to  go  into  the  mountains,  and  have  a  donksy,  and  camp 
in  the  open  air,  and " 

**Well,"  Elsa  impatiently  interrupted  the  enumera- 
tion of  objections,  **what  of  that?  You  and  father 
and  I  used  often  to  go  into  the  mountains,  and  have  a 
donkey,  and  camp  in  the  open  air;  and  father  always 
depended  more  upon  us  than  we  upon  him.  You  think 
it  over  while  I  get  tea.''  Elsa  left  her  sister  sitting 
alone  and  looking  out  of  the  study  windows  to  tlLe  sol- 
emn rugged  Corderillas. 

Dolores  did  consider  the  matter,  with  the  result  that, 
after  a  few  weeks  of  study,  of  consulting  maps  and 
plans,  and  of  preparation  for  the  journey,  the  sisters 
were  ready  to  begin  the  daring  exploit  whose  aim  was 
to  complete  the  investigations  wMch  their  father  had 
begun. 

Clad  in  rough,  unsightly  denim,  and  leading  a  burro 
which  carried  a  very  considerable  store  of  provisions, 
they  clambered  up  the  jagged  sides  of  Ahualtapec; 
they  tore  their  way  through  thickets  and  fell  up(Hi 
cacti. 


THE»ENTEKTAINING  aROUP  271 

*^We're  lost/'  panted  Dolores,  finally,  as  she  pulled 
the  many  thorns  from* her  clothing.  '*Elsa,  we*re 
lost." 

They  had  stopped,  at  about  noon  on  thje  tenth  day 
of  th«ir  trip,  to  rest,  and  again  to  consult  their  maps. 

Elsa  steed  npozi  a  ledge  and  looked  across  to  where, 
between  two  lofty  mountains,  rising  to  the  south  of 
Ahualtapee,  a  smaller  rook  mass  showed  itself,  like  a 
much  orergrown  hill— the  shell  of  a  long  extinct  vol- 
cano, and  a  very  counterpart  of  Ahualtapee. 

''DoldreSj"  she  .pointed  straight  before  her,  **do 
you  remember?  A  stone  in  which,  when  viewed  from 
a  distance,  can  be  seen  a  resemblance  to  the  cross  of 
Tlaloef" 

*^0h,  dear,"  complained  Dolores,  dejectedly,  **and 
all  this  time  wasted ! ' ' 

**Ncw,  Dolores!''  small  Bka  turned  about  deter- 
minedly,  **you  ought  to  shout  for  joy,  for.  that  cer- 
tainly must  be  it.  The  rocks  are  bare  around  that  spot, 
and  yow  can  s^e  it  plainly  from  here.  It's  on  a  ledge, 
too,  just  like  the  one  we're  on.  We  will  start  this  very 
minute,  Dolores. ' ' 

Delaying  long  enough  only  for  Blsa,  who  had  a  fine 
sense  of  location,  to  impress  upon  her  mind  the  posi- 
tion of  the  cross,  they  began  once  more  the  tedious 
scrambling,  tearing,  tumbling  down  slopes  and  up  slopes, 
across  streams  and  through,  streams;  but  they  did  not 
lose  thenmelves  again. 

'*Do  you  suppose,"  Dolores  anxiously  asked,  *'that 
we  ©an  ever  move  it?"  as  she  saw  how  the  ages  had 
packed  and,  hardened  the  damp  soil  about  the  base  of 
the  boulder. 


072  TYPES  OF  PfiOSE  NARRATIVES 

**We  muBt.'/  Elga  was  resolved  not  to  be  defeated. 
** We  absolutely  must,"  she  rei^rated. 

''Howf  demanded  Dolores. 

Elsa's^ reply  was  to  unstrap  a  bag  from  the  burro's 
back,  to  take  from  it  two  trowels,  and  silently  to  offer 
one  to  Dolores.  No  explanation-  was  'necessary.  For 
five  days  the  girls  scraped  and  dug  away  the  hardened 
soil  from  thfe  l6wer  part  of  the  cross^haped  stone,  untiJ 
at  last  the  block  began  to  tremble  as  though  about  to 
fall. 

''Dolores!  Dolores!  It's  top  heavy,  bless  it  I"  Elsa 
was  enthusiastically,  insanely  happy. 

The  fact  that  the  stone  was  top  heavy  made  it  pos- 
sible for  the  girls,  by  dint  of  much  tugging,  heaving, 
and  pushing,  to  roll  it  over  the  ledge,  and  to  send  It 
bumping  down  the  mountainside.  A  narrow  passage, 
wide  enough  to  admit  only  one  at  a  time,  was  thus 
opened.  Pine  torches  were  lit.  Even  Dolores  was  ex- 
cited. They  squeezed  into  the  entrance,  Elsa  first.  They 
rushed  through  the  short  tunnel,  until^  at  the  end,  Elsa 
stumbled  and  sank  to  her  knees. 

**0h,  my!  Dolores,  just  look!"  she  was  holding  her 
torch  down  to  see  what  had  caused  her  fall.  '-It's  it," 
she  remarked,  disregarding  rhetoric,  while  she  pointed 
to  a  small  turquoise-«tudded  image  of  Tlaloe,  the  'Nep- 
tune of  the  Aztecs.    : 

The-  girb  carried  the  idol  into  the  little  ante-room 
which  was  always  a  part  of  the  burial  grotto  of  an 
Aztec  noble  family.  How  pleasant,  how  cool,  axid  damp 
it  seemed  in  here,  after  their  hot  toil  outside.  •  The  sif- 
ters had  been  in  too  maaiy  tombs  to.  know  any  fear,  to 
have  any  feeling  of  the  presence  of  the  dead.     Their 


THE  ENTEBTAINING  GROUP  273 

own  breathing  ^sounded  hmA  and  labored  amid  the  si* 
lence  of  the  cave.  . 

Dolores. sat  down  on  the  moist  floor,  and  examined 
the  statues;  i^  was  thinking  of  the  treasure;  but  Elsa, 
now  that  die  was  sure  of  finding  the  gold,  or  the  jewels, 
or  whatever  the  promise  might. have  meant,  desired  to 
explore  the  grotto. 

From-  the  little  ant»-room  she  passed  into  the  larger 
chamber.  Here,  for  the  firdt  time,  sherfelt  <bhilled; 
she  seemed  so  alone.  She  was  sure  she  ieit  a  ghost 
whisper  near  her^  Her  feet  slipped  o»  the  wet  earth. 
On  the  further  side  of  the  tomb  she  saw  upon  the  ground 
an  urn,,  on  which  rested  a  sinilL  By  the  shape  of  the 
urn  and  by  the  arrangement  of  the  ornaments  above  it 
Blsa  kaew  that  it  contained  the  ashes  of  a  warrior.  A 
drop  of  water  splashed  down  from  the  ceiling  and 
aroused. her.  She  held  her  torch  aloft.  She  looked  mh- 
believingly  at.the  roof.  Then  she  walked  slowly  arouiad 
the  room,  wonderingly, ;  feeling  and  scrutinizing  the 
walls. 

"DoloresT'  she  called,  **come  quick!'' 

Dolores  was  not  loiig  in  coming, 

*'And  here  is  also  what  should  be  the  source  of  un- 
told wealth  to  the  discoverer,*'  Elsa  was  murmuring. 
**DoloreSj  do  you  see  that  grieen,  that  duU  gray!  How 
it  shines?  Don't  you  know,  Dolores?  It's  jade,  v^el 
jade,  Dolores!" 

— ^Dorothea  Knoblock. 

n.    The  Society  Story 

Society  stories  are  those  i^ou-oonsequential  narra- 
tiyes  of  modern  fashionable  life  which  have  i^  their 


274  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NAJBBATIVES 

very. lightness  their  sole  exeuae  for  being.  They  are  set 
up  as  only  partial  reflections  of  the  actual.  Since  their 
ehief  purpose  is  to  please,  ikty  have  no  studied  realism 
What  the  ^^  t^^ni.  All  things  intense  and  unftttraetive 
society  are  omitted.  If  trouble  8i^>ears,  it  is  but  as 
^^ ^  ''sweet  brfls  jai^led  out  of  tune  and  harrfi," 
as  one  of  their  authors  might  promptly  quote,  and  every- 
thing is  brought  to  harmonize  with  everything  else  at 
last.  Richard  Harding  Davis  for  his  **VBn  BiWt)er" 
tales  seems  to  have  found  a  widie  public. 

An  older  representative  of  the  society  story  is  the 
pastoral  romance,  onoe  a  very  popular  form  of  the  love 
^g  tale.    In  it  we  have  a  picture  of  counlay  life, 

pastoral  but  it  is  not  the  hard,  toil-<beleagured  life  of 
romance  ^^^  y^j^j  peasant.  It  is  the  imaginary  out-of- 
doors  living-for-a-few-diays  of  the  courtier  who  mas- 
querades as  a  shepherd  and  sits  cavalierly  on  a  grassy 
bank  with  a  golden  crook  in  his  hand,  sighing  out  his 
heart  in  silvery  madrigals.  His  ladyJove  is  no  ordi- 
nary milk-maid,  but  a  courtly  princess  on  vacation.  In 
this  romantic  land  of  shepherd  loves,  nothing  realistic 
enters.  The  talk  in  even  the  first  examples  is  philo- 
sophic and  in  the  later  becomes  euphuistic  as  well. 
The  critics  maintain  that  the  pastoral  romance  as  a 
type  does  not  go  more  than  ten  years  back  of  the 
middle  of  the  fourteenth  eentuiy,  although  we  have 
**Aucassin  and  Nicolette"  of  the  thirteeivth  and 
''Daphnis  and  Chloe''  of  the  fifth.  The  prime  fact  of 
the  history  of  the  pastoral  romance  as  a  society  story 
is  that  it  grew  up  as  a  revolt  against  the  licentious 
realism  of  the  Italian  novellieri.  The  ** Arcadia*'  by 
Sannazaro,  written  about  1500,  is  the  book  that  made 


THB  ENTEETAININQ  GROUP  278 

the  epoch  And  established  the  rule  tor  pastoral  remans 
in  all  languages.  Sannazaro  took  what  had  been  fore- 
shadowed by  Boccaccio  in  the  *'Ameto''  in  1340,  and, 
enriching  it  with  elements  derived  from  Theocritus  and 
Virgil,  created  the  '* perfect"  example.  From  San- 
naearo.  Sir  Philip  Sidney  borrowed  the  spirit,  many 
episodes^  and  part  of  the  name  for  his  notable  combi- 
x^tiom  of  pirose  and  verse — the  **  Countess  of  Pem- 
broke's Arcadia-''  Shakespeare,  too,  derived  much 
from  this  important  Italian  book.  For  one  thing,  he 
took  the  name  Ophelia;  for  another,  his  charming 
society  pastoral  drama  '^Aa  You  Like  It"  goes  his- 
to  ideally  back  to  Sannazaro 's  '*  Arcadia"  for  its  lyrics, 
out-of-doors  courting,  its  real  shepherds,  its  obvious 
love  of  nature,  its  touch  of  magic,  and  its  wholesome 
morality.  The;  lack  of  allegorical  significance  is  also 
straight  example  from  Sannazaro;  but  the  love  chain^ 
the  disguised  shepherd  princesses,  the  hinnorous  ele- 
naent  in  connection  with  the  coarse  shepherds,  a  touch 
of  adventure,  and  the  cavalier  tone  are  of  later  Spanish 
and  English  contamination,  immediately  through 
liodge's  prose  romance  **Eosalyjid,"  and  more  remotely 
through  Greene's  three  pastorals— ** England's  Mourn- 
ing Garment,"  '*Menaphon,"  and  **Pandosto," — and 
throi]^  Cervantes 's  '* Galatea"  and  Montemayor's 
**  Diana,"  and  Eibeyro's  Portuguese  * 'Fragments." 

Though  the  pastoral  romance,  as  we  notice,  became 
more  and  more  artificial,  it  always  remained  pure  in 
tone.  It  centered  itself  in  idealism  and  stood  against 
the  low,  utterly  debased,  more  realistic  novella,  which 
was, its  piredecessor  and.  continued  rival  for  popularity. 
The  pastoral  held  the  field  as  the  chief  and  most 


276  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NAEBATIVES 

inflnential  prose  form  in  Spain  until  the  picaresque 
romance  came  to  be  recognized  as  a  distinct  g€jnre. 

To  write  a  modem  society  story  that  will  be  worth 
while  is  no  eai^  task;  for  here  an  author  readily 
Suggestions  descends  to  banalities,  and  the  class  itself 
for  writing  is  hardly  acceptable  to  the  serious  critic. 
Yet  stories  of  this  kind  are  so  popular  and  form  (I  am 
Borry  to  say)  so  large  a  part  of  the  reading  of  our 
young  women— and  our  young  men,  too,  for  that  mat- 
ter— ^that  the  type  surely  has  come  to  stay  for  sometime 
and  must  be  taken  account  of.  To  make  your  story 
commendable,  then,  you  will  need  to  be  original  and 
striking  in  your  choice  of  situation  and  to  write  with  a 
succinctness  and  verve  that  will  animate  even  the  com- 
monplace* Be  careful  not  to  be  sentimental.  If  you 
touch  on  love,  do  so  with  dignity-— with  either  clean, 
pure  humor,  or  uiaffected  seriousness.  Try  hard  to 
save  your  hero  from  being  a  cad.  The  namby-pamby, 
third-generation-millionaire  protagonist,  if  not  alto- 
gether uninteresting,  is  surely  exasperating  to  a  sen- 
sible reader.  By  playful  imitation,  you  might  write  a 
good  satire  on  this  class  of  story.  If  you  do  so,  you 
will  need  to  be  familiar  with  one  or  more  of  the 
popular  examples  in  order  to  use  them  specifically.  Or 
you  might  try  your  hand  at  a'  pastoral,  just  for  the 
history  of  the  thing.  If  yoii  care  to  adhere  to  certain 
elements  of  the  genre,  you  could  put  together  under 
this  guise  allegorical  scenes  in  which  the  present  lords 
of  the  earth  figure  as  weak  or  lusty  shepherds  piping  a 
tune  to  the  watch-dogs  of  war,  the  sheep  of  commerce, 
and  the  Goddess  of  Getting-Ou.  If  you  wish  to  be 
more  than  half  serious,  you  can  find  countenance  in  a 


THE  ENTERTAINING  GROUP  377 

numbisr  of  our  most  recent  light  stories  that  undoubt- 
edly turn  toward  the  pastoral.  This  type,  too,  will  give 
you  a  chance  at  a  mixture  of  prose  and  verse.  Here 
you  can  put  in  some  of  those  fetching  sylvan  Ijrrics 
that  you  must  have  composed  long  before  now  and 
have  always  been  afraid  to  mention. 

The  Pur  Coat 
Prof.  Max  Wiegand  to  Dr.  Chustav  Strauch 

Berlin,  November  20. 
Dear  Gustav — I  have  some  news  to  tell  you  to-day 
which  will  certainly  surprise  you.  I  have  separated  from 
my  wife,  or  rather  we  have  separated  from  each  other.  We 
have  come  to  an  amicable  agreement  henceforth  to  live 
entirely  independent .  of  each  other.  My  wife  has  gone  to 
her  family  in  Freiburg,  where  she  will  no  doubt  re- 
main. I  am  for  the  present  in  our  old  house;  per- 
haps in  the  spring  I  may  look  for  a  smaller  house — 
perhaps  not,  for  I  can  hardly  hope  to  find  so  quiet  a 
workroom  as  I  now  have,  and  the  idea  of  moving  appals 
me,  especially  when  I  think  of  my  large  library.  You  will, 
of  course,  want  to  know  what  has  happened,  though,  to 
tell  the  truth,  nothing  has  happened.  The  world  will  seek 
for  all  possible  and  impossible  reasons  why  two  people  who 
married  for  love  and  who  have  for  eleven  years  lived  what 
is  called  happily  together  should  now  have  decided  to  part. 
Yes,  this  world  which  thinks  itself  so  wise,  but  whose 
judgments  are  nevertheless  so  petty,  so  superficial,  will 

TransUted  by  Mrs.  J.  M.  Lancaster..  Copyright,  1903,  by 
The  Current  Literature  Publishing  Company.  Eeprinted  by 
permission. 


g78  TYP^  OP  BBOSE  :KAifflATJfyES    , 

doubtless  be  of  the  opinioa  tbat  there  is  Bometbing  hidden — 
will  include  this  case  too  in  one  ^f  .thct  two  great  categories 
prepared  for  such  affairfl^  hecavee  it  can  not  conceive  of  the 
fact  that  life  in  its  inediatiptible  variety  never  repeats 
itself  mod  that  iiie  sameciix^umstanGea  may  .assume  dif- 
ferent aspects  accocding  to. the  obaor^ciber  ai|d  disposition 
of  those  interested.  I  need  not  tell  you  this,  my  dear 
Gustav.  You  will  understand  how  two  finely  organized 
natures  should  rebel  against  a  tie  which  binds  them  to- 
gether after  they  have  once  become  ifuily  conviiiced  that 
in  all  matters  of  real  iu^portance  a  mutual  understanding 
is  possible. 

My  wife  and  I  are  too  unlike.  Between  he^r  views  of 
life  and  mine  there  yawns  an  impassable  gulf.  The  first 
few  years  I  hoped  to  influence  her,  to  win  her  to  my  ways 
of  thinking — she  seemed  so  docile,  so  yielding,  took  so 
warm  an  interest  in  my  work,  so  willingly  allowed  herself 
to  be  taught  by  me.  ^N'ot  till  after  our  children's  death  did 
she  begin  to  change.  Her  grief  at  this  loss — a  grief  which 
neither  of  us  has  ever  been  able  to  live  down^ — matured 
her,  made  her  independent  of  me.  A  tendency  to  morbid 
introspection  took  possession  of  her,,  and  gave  increased 
tenacity  to  those  ideas  and  convictions  which  my  influence 
had  hitherto  held  in  check,  though  not  wholly  eradicated. 
She  plunged  deeper  and  deeper  into  those  mists  of  senti- 
mentally fantastic  imaginings,  passionately  demanding  my 
concurrence  in  her  views.  .She  lost  all  interest  in  my  pro- 
fessional work,  evidently  regarding  the  results  of  my  re- 
searches in  natural  science  as  troops  from  an  enem3r's  camp. 
At  last  there  was  hardly  a  subject  in  the  wide  realm  of 
nature  and  human  existence  on  which  we  agreed.  To  be 
sure  we  never  came  to  an  open  quarrel,  but  the  breach 


THE  ENTERTAINING  GBOXJP  ^9 

betweeu  u$  was  constantly  widening.  Evejfy  day  we  saw 
more  and  more  plainly  that  though  we  liv«d  side  by  side, 
we  no  longer  belonged  to  «aqh  other.  This  discovery  irri- 
tated and  dktressed  ns^  and  at  last  forced  all  other  fefelings 
into  the  background.  If  we  had  not  once  loved  -each  other 
so  dearly,  or  even  if  we  had  now  ceased  to  feel  a  mutual 
respect,  this  state  of  affairs  might  perhaps  have  lasted  for 
years,  but  our  ideas  of  the  true  meaning  of  marriage  were 
too  iofty,  our  sense  of  our  own  dignity  as  human  beings 
too  profound  to  permit  ns  to  be  content  with  so  incomplete 
a  realization  of  our  ideals.  I  hardly  know  who  spobe  firflt, 
but  our  resolution  was  at  once  taken,  and  the  decisive 
words  uttered  as  calmly  and. naturally. as  the  overripe  fruit 
falls  from  the  tree.  For  the  first  time  in  many  years  we 
were  able  with  perfect  unanimity  of  sentiment  to  disease 
a  subject  of  the?  greatest  importance  to  us  both,  and  this 
fact .  alone  soothed  our  overwrou^  nerves*  We  parted 
yesterday,  with  the  utmost  decorum,,  without  a  word. of 
reproach,  a  note  of  discord. 

The  many  beautifid  memories  of  our  eariy  mar- 
ried life,  of  the  long  yeers  we  had  lived  together,  made  it 
difS^ult  to  refrain  from  some  manifestation  of  tenderness, 
and  I  assure  you  that  I  never  felt  greater  respect  for  my 
wife  than  at  the  moment  when,  all  petty  considerations 
cast  aside,  the  trtte  magnanimity  of  her  nature  asserted 
itself.  Her  manner^  what  she  said,  and  also  what  she  did 
not  say,  robbed  the  situation  of  all  trace  of  the  common- 
place, and  gave  it. dignity.  Deeply  moved,  alm^^st  in  tears^ 
we  clasped  handa  in  farewell,  so  we  may  look  back  upon 
the  closing  scene  of  our  wedded  life  with  unalloyed  satis^ 
faction. 

I  had  already,  with  her  ooDBent,  referred  all  business 


ago  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARHATIVES 

details  to  our  lawyers,  for  we  were  not  even  to  communicate 
with  each  other  by  letter. 

Life  must  begin  again  for  both  of  ns,  and  already  I 
breathe  more  freely.  The  Bubicon  is  passed.  I  believe 
that  yon  will  congratulate  me. 

*  Prof.  Max  Wiegand  to  Dr.  Ousiav  Strauch 

Berlin,  December  12. 

Dear  Gustav — Pardon  me  that  I  have  so  long  delayed 
thanking  yon  for  yonr  answer  of  fiiendly  sympathy  to  my 
last  letter. 

I  have  been  in  no  condition  to  write,  and  even  now  find  it 
diflBcult.  Yon  congratnlate  me  without  reserve  on  a  step 
which  you  regard  as  essential  to  my  welfare  and  to  my 
intellectual  development,  but  you  do  not  take  into  con- 
sideration what  it  means  to  separate  from  one  who  has 
for  eleven  years  been  one's  constant  companion,  day  and 
night.  Indeed,  it  is  only  during  these  last  dreary  weeks 
.  that  I,  myself,  have  realized  what  the  change  signifies  to 
me.  Habit  is  all  powerful,  especially  with  men  who,  like 
yon  and  me,  live  in  the  intellectual  world  and  so  require  a 
solid  subHstructure. 

How  are  we  to  take  observations  from  the  tower  battle- 
ments when  its  foundations  are  not  firmly  established? 
Of  course,  I  am  as  certain  as  ever  I  was  that  our  decision 
is  for  the  best  interests  of  us  both,  but  in  this  queer  world 
of  ours  we  can  take  no  step  without  unlooked-for  results. 

I  am  bothered  from  mom  fill  night  with  trifles  to  which 
I  have  never  given  a  thought  since  my  bachelor  days- 
things  which  I  will  not  mention,  so  absurdly  insignificant 
are  they — ^and  yet  they  rob  me  of  my  time  and  destroy  my 


THE  ENTERTAINING  GROUP  281 

peace.  I  am  at  a  loss  what  steps  to  take  to  rid  myself  of 
the  thousand  peftty  cares  and  annoyances  which  my  wifa 
has  hitherto  borne  for  me.  These  servants!  Now  that 
the  cat  is  away  they  think  that  they  can  do  just  as  they . 
please,  and  yon  have  no  idea  of  the  silly  obstacles  over 
which  I  am  cpntinnally  stumbling,  of  the  wrei;ched  pitfalls 
which  beset  my  path.  Here  is  one  instance  out  of  many : 
For  several  days  it  has  been  very  cold,  and  I  can  not  find 
my  fur  coat.  With  the  chambermaid^s  assistance  I  have 
turned  the  whole  house  upside  down,  until  she  finally  re- 
membered that  my  wife,  last  spring,  sent  it  to  a  furrier^s 
to  be* kept  from  the  moth.  But  to  which  furrier?  I  have 
been  to  a  dozen  aiid  can  not  find  it. 

If  I  had  only  not  agreed  with  my  wife  that  we  were, 
under  no  circumstances,  to  write  to  each  other,  I  should 
simply  ask  her — ^but  it  is  best  so.  No  strain  of  the  com- 
monplace must  mingle  with  the  sad  echoes  of  our  farewell. 
No — a  farce  never  follows  a  drama.  Perhaps  she  might 
even  imagine  that  I  seize  the  first  pretext  to  renew  relations 
with  her. 

Never! 

To-day  it  is  sii  below  zero. 

Ptof.  Max  Wiegand  to  Frau  Smma  Wieganct 

Beri/Jn,  December  ti. 
Dear  Emma — ^You  will  be  greatly  surprised  at  receiving 
a  letter  from  me  in. spite  of  our  mutual  agreement,  but 
dg  nbt  fear  that  I  have  any  intentioii  of  opening  a  corre- 
spondence with  you.  Our  relations  terminated  with  all 
possible  dignity,  and  the  sealed  door  shall  never  be  re- 
opened.   I  have  but  to  ask  a  simple  guestion  which  you 


J 


TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NABBATIVES 

alone,  can  aitewer..  What  is  the  name  of  the  man  to  whom 
you  gent  my  fur  coat  la&t  spring?  Lina  has  forgotten  the 
address.  Hoping  soon  to  r^eive  an  answer,  for  which  I 
thank  you  in  advance,  Max. 

Frau  Emma  Wiegand  to  Prof.  Max  Wiegand 

Fbeiburg,  December  15. 
D&AH  Max-— His  iiame  is  Falaschke,  and  he  is  on  Zim- 
mer  Street.    T  can  not  understand  Lina's  forgetfulness,  as 
she  took  the  coat  there  herself.  Ekma. 

Prof.  Max  Wiegand  to  Frau  Emma  Wiegand 

Berlin,  December  17. 

DsAB  Ehma — I  must  trouble  you  once  more* — for  the 
last  time.  Hesrr  Palaflchke  refuses  to  let  the  coat  go  with- 
out the  ticket,  as  he  has  had  several  disagreeable  experi- 
ences which  have  imade  it  necessary  to  be  very,  strict.  But 
where  is  the  ticket?  I  spent  the  whole  morning  looking 
for  it,  and,  of  course,  Lina  has  not  the  slightest  idea  where 
it  ip.  She  flew  into  a  rage  wh^n,  I  found  a -little  fault  with 
her,  and  she  leaves  the  house  to-morrow.  I  prefer  paying 
her  till  .the  end.  of  heir  engagement,  and  in  addition 
shall  give  her  a  moderate  Christmas  gift,  for  I  can 
not  stand  for  a  great  length  of  time  such  an  impertinent 
person  about  me. 

Well— be  90  kind  as  to  write  me  a  line  telling'  me  where 
to  find  the  ticket.  I  have  already  taken  a  severe  cold  for 
want  of  the  fur  coat. 

Hoping  that  you  are  well  and  quite  comfortable  with 
your  family.  Max. 


THE  ENTERTAINING  GROUP  283 

Frau  Emma  Wiegand  to  Prof.  Max  Wiegand 

Freiburg,  December  19. 
Dear  Max — The  ticket  is  either  in  the  second  or  third 
upper  drawer  of  the  little  wardrobe  in  the  dressing-room  or 
in  my  desk,  in  the  right  or  left  pigeon-hole.  I  could  find  it 
in  a  minute  if  I  were  there.  Lina  Has  great  faults,  but 
she,  is  very  respectable.  I  doubt  whether  you  can  do  bet- 
ter, and  now,  just  before  Christmas,  you  will  not  be  able 
to  replace  hen  You  should  have  put  up  with  her  at  least 
a  fortnight  longer,  but  it  is  none  of  my  business.  I  hope 
your  cold  is  better.    I  am  quite  well.  Emma. 

Prof.  Max  Wiegand  to  Frau  Emma  Wiegand 

Berlin,  December  21. 

Dear  Emma — The  ticket  i^  not  to  be  found  either  in 
the  wardrobe  or  in  the  desk.-  Perhaps  it  slipped  out  wh^ 
you  were  packing,  and  wad  thrown  away.  I  can  think  of 
no  other  explaniation. 

To-morrow  or  next  day  I  will  again  go  to  Herr  Palaschke, 
and  try  to  wheedle  him  out  of  my  property  by  all  possible 
blandishments  and  asaurance?,.  but  tg-day  I  .am  confined  ,to 
my  room,  for  my  cold  has  resulted  in  a  severe  attack  of 
neuralgia. 

I  had  a>  dxeadf^l  scene  with  the  cook,  yesterday-  On  the. 
day  of  your  departure  she  gave  me  notice,  and  when  I  tried 
to  persuade  her  to  remain  she  turned  on  me  and  told  me  in 
a  very  insolent  manner  thjat  I  knew  nothing  about  house- 
keeping, and  that  it  was  only  out  of  sympathy  for  you, 
dear  Emmai,  that  she  had  so  long  remained  with  us  at  such 
low  wages,  and  that  she  should  leave  immediately, 
answered  calmly,  but  firmly,  that  she  must  stay  till  the 


u 


284  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NABRATIVES 

end  of  her  engagement.  Then  she  began  to  cry  and  storm, 
and  at  last  was  so  outrageously  impertinent  as  to  declare 
that  even  you  could  not  manage  to  live  with  me.  I  lost 
my  temper  and  must,  I  suppose,  have  called  her  an  **impii- 
dent  woman,^^  though  I  can  not  remember  saying  it.  Un- 
fortunately for  me  I  have  had  no  experience  in  dealing 
with  viragos. 

Two  hours  later,  after  supper,  I  rang  and  discovered 
that  she  was  already  gone,  bag  and  baggage,  leaving  in  the 
kitchen  a  badly  spelled  hillet  doux,  in  which  she  threatened 
me  with  a  lawsuit  for  calling  her  ^n  "impudent  woman," 
in  case  I  should  refuse  to  give  her  a  certificate  of  character, 

I  am  now  entirely  without  servants.  The  porter's  wife 
blacks  my  shoes  for  a  handsome  consideration,  and  brings 
me  from  the  cafe  meals  which  ought  to  be  condemned  by 
the  health  inspector.  As  you  have  truly  remarked,  it  will 
be  impossible  to  replace  these  women  before  the  New  Year, 
but  I  have  already  written  to  a  dozen  employment  bureaus, 
and  will  go  myself  as  soon  as  I  am  able  to  leave  the  house. 
This  has  grovm  into  a  long  letter,  my  dear  Emma,  but 
when  the  heart  is  full  the  pen  runs  rapidly. 

I  also  suspect  that  abominable  cook  of  taking  my  gold 
sleeve  bottons — ^those  left  me  by  Uncle  Friedrich — though 
I  have,  of  course,  no  proof.  Have  you  any  idea  where  they 
are  ?  If  so  please  drop  me  a  line.  Good-by,  my  dear  Emma, 
and  I  trust  you  are  more  comfortable  than  I  am. 

Your  Max. 

Frau  Emma  Wiegand  io  Prof.  Max  Wtegand 

Freibubo>  December  23. 
Dear  Max — I  have  read  with  much  sympathy  your  ac- 
count of  your  little  mishaps  and  annoyances.     The  cook 


THE  BNTBETAINING  GROUP  286 

often  spoke  to  me  very  much  as  she  did  to  you,  but  I  put 
up  with  it  because  she  is  a  good  cook,  and  only  cooks  ivho 
know  nothing  are  polite.  Now  you  see  what  I  have  had  to 
stand  for  years,  and  that  there  are  problems  in  thatdepart- 
ment  also  which  Can  not  be  solved  by  natural  science. 

I  can  not,  at  this  instance,  advise  you  what  to  do,  and 
should  not  consider  myself  justified  in  doing  so  now  that 
our  intimate  relations  have  been  terminated  in  so  dignified 
a  manner,  as  you  so  truly  remark  in  your  first  letter.  As 
for  the  furrier's  ticket  and  the  sleeve  buttons,  I  will  wager 
that  I  could  find  them  both  in  five  minutes*  You  muat 
remember  how  often  you  have  hunted  in  vain  for  a  thing 
which  I  have  found  at  the  first  attempt.  Men  occasionally 
discover  a  new  truth  but  never  an  old  button. 

Since  a  correspondence  has  been  begun  by  you>  I  have  a 
little  request  to  make.  I  forgot  before  I  left  to  ask  you 
for  the  letters  which  you  wrote  me  during  our  engagement, 
and  which  at  my  request  you  put  in  your  safe.  They  are 
my  property,  and  I  should  like  to  have  them  as  a  remilidcr 
of  happier  days.  Will  you  be  so  kind  as  to  send  them 
to  me  ? 

Wishing  you  a  Merry  Christmas,  Ekma. 

Prof.  Max  Wiegand  to  Frau  Emma  Wi^gand 

Beblin,  December  25. 
My  Dear  Emma— rYour  kind  wish  that  I  might  have 
a  Merry  Christmas  has  not  been  fulfilled.  I  never  spent 
so  melancholy  a  Christmas  Eve.  You  will  not  wonder  that 
I  could  not  bear  to  accept  the  invitations  of  friends — ^tq 
be  a  looker-on  at  family  rejoicings — ^so  I  stayed  at  hom«^ 
entirely  alone,    I  found  it  utterly  impossible  to  get  a  servant 


ggg  TTPES  OP  PKOSE  NAKBATIVES 

before  New  Year's,  and  yesterday  was  even  without  a  helper 
from  outside.  The  porter's  wife  put  a  cold  supper  on  the 
table  for  me  early  in  the  afternoon,  for  she  was  too  busy 
later  with  Christmas  preparations  for  her  children.  A 
smoky  oil  lamp  took  the  place  of  the  Christmas  tree  which 
you  always  adorned  so  charmingly  and  with  suoh  exquisite 
taste  every  year,  and  there  were  none  of  those  pretty  sur- 
prises by  which  yon  supplied  iny  wants  and  wishes  almost 
beforfe  I  was  conscious  of  them.  There  was  nothing  on 
the  Christmas  table  but-  my  old  fur  coat,  which  Herr 
Palaschke — softened  by  my  entreaties  and  assurances  and 
perhaps  also  by  the  spirit  of  Christmastide — had  allowed 
me  to  take  the  preceding  day.  It  was  as  cold  as  charity 
in  the  room,  for  the  fire  had  gone  out  and  it  was  beyond 
my  skill  to  rekindle  it,  so  I  put  on  the  fur  coat,  sat  down 
by  the  smoky  lamp,  and  read  over  the  letters  which  I  wrote 
you  during  the  time  of  our  engagement  and  which  I  had 
taken  from  their  eleven  years*  resiting-place  to  send  to  you 
to-day. 

Dear  Emma,  I  can  not  tell  you  how  they  have  moved  me. 
I  cried  like  a  child,  not  over  the  tragic  ending  of  our  mar- 
riage alone,  but  at  the  change  in  myself  which  I  recognize. 
They  are  very  immature  and  in  many  ways  not  in  accord- 
ance with  my  present  way  of  thinking,  but  what  a  fresh, 
frank,  warm-blooded  fellow  I  was  then,  and  how  I  loved 
you!  How  happy  I  was !  How  artlessly  and  unreservedly 
did  I  give  myself  up  to  my  happiness !  Till  now  I  have 
thought  that  there  has  been  a  gradual,  slow  change  in  you 
alone,  but  now  I  see  that  I  als6  have  altered,  and  God 
.knows,  when  I  compare  the  Max  of  those  days  with  the 
Max  of  to-dayi  I  do  not  know  to  which  t6  give  the  prefer- 
ence.   In  the  sleepless  nights  which  I  have  lately  spent^  I 


THE  ENTERTAINING  GROUP  2S7 

haye  thought  over  the  poagibility  of  transforming  myself 
into  the  -Max  I  then  was,  and  grave  donbta  have  snggested 
themsdves  whether  the  differences  in  our  views  of  matters 
and  things  wotb  really  as  great  as  they  seemed  to  us, 
whether  there  is  not  outside  of  them  something  eternally 
huffiian^  some  neutral  ground  where  we  might  continue  to 
have  intei^estB  in  common. 

Try  and  see,  dear  Emma,  whether  such  a  voice  does  not 
speak  also  to  your  soul.  We  can  not  undo  the  past,  but 
nothing  could  give  me  greater  consolation  in  my  present 
unhappy  condition  than  to  know  that  you  could^  say  yes 
to  this  question,  for  your  departure  has  left  a  void  in  my 
house  and  in  my  life  that  I  can  never,  never  fill. 

Thy  most  unhappy  Max. 

Frau  Emma  Wiegand  to  Prof.  Max  Wiegand 

Freiburg,  December  27. 
Dear  Max — I  very  willingly  gave  you  information  as 
long  as  it  related  only  to  tickets  and  sleeve  buttons,  but  I 
must  decline  answering  the  question  contained  in  your  last 
letter.  Did  you  really  believe,  you  old  Pedant,  that  I  left 
your  home — ^which  was  also  mine — ^because  we  disagreed  in 
our  views  of  matters  and  things  in  general  ?  Then  you  are 
mightily  mistaken.  I  left  you  because  I  saw  more  plainly 
every  day  that  you  no  longer  loved  me.  Yes,  I  had  become 
a  burden  to  you^— you  wanted  to  get  rid  of  me.  If  in  that 
dignified  parting  scene  you  had  said  one  single  tender  word 
to  me,  I  should  probably  have  stayed,  but,  as  usual,  you 
were  on  your  high  horse,  from  which  you  have  now  had 
so  lamentable  a  tumble  just  because  your  servants  have  left 
you.    I  too  have  served  you  faithfully,  though  you  do  not 


288  TYPES  or  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

seem  to  have  recognized  that  fact.  I  never  let  the  fire  go 
out  on  your  hearth.  It  was  not  my  fault  when  it  grew  cold. 
Who  knows  whether  you  would  have  noticed  the  void 
left  by  my  going  if  your  fur  coat  had  not  also  been  missing? 
This  gave  you  an  opportunity  of  opening  a  correspondence 
with  me,  and  it  seems  to  be  only  fitting  that  it  should  now 
close,  since  you  have  once  more  regained  possession  of  your 
property.    I,  at  least,  have  nothing  more  to  say. 

Good-by  forever,  Emma. 

Prof.  Max  Wiegand  to  Dr,  Oustav  Strauch 

BEKXiiN,  January  8. 
Dear  Gustav — I  have  a  great  piece  of  news  to  tell  you. 
My  wife  returned  to  me  yesterday,  and  at  my  earnest 
solicitation.  I  thought  I  could  no  longer  live  with  her,  but 
I  find  it  equally  impossible  to  live  without  her.  I  have  just 
discovered  that  she  too  was  very  unhappy  during  the  time 
of  our  separation,  but  she  would  never  have  acknowledged 
it,  for  hers  is  the  stronger  character  of  the  two.  I  do  not 
know  how  to  explain  the  miracle,  but  we  love  each  other 
more  dearly  than  ever.  We  are  celebrating  a  new  honey- 
moon. The  great  questions  of  life  drove  us  apart,  but  is 
it  only  the  little  ones  which  have  reunited  us?  Would  you 
suppose  that  one  could  find  a  half-desiccated  heart  in  the 
pocket  of  an  old  fur  coat?  The  stately  edifice  of  my 
worldly  knowledge  totters  on  its  foundations,  dear  Gus- 
tav.   I  have  a  great  deal  to  unlearn.  Max. 

.   — Ludwig  Fulda. 


THE  ENTERTAINING  GBOtJP  289 

T)ie  Lady  in  Pink 

If  I  hadn't  had  to  stop  in  the  middle  of  my  paint- 
ing and  run  down  to  the  house  to  get  some  more  rose- 
madder  I  never  in  the  world  should  have  seen  her ;  I 
had  to  leave  all  my  things  up  on  the  hill  with  little 
David,  and  on  the  way  down  to  the  village  I  passed  the 
place. 

The  only  thing  I  remember  now  is  that  I  was  hurry- 
ing along  by  a  stone  wall  which  was  higher  than  my 
head  and  that  above  it  dark  pines  clustered  in  pointed 
masses  against  a  blue  and  white  sky-^it  was  just  the 
kind  of  sky  Bougereau  would  have  loved,  with  soft, 
opaqute  cloud8---when  I  came  past  the  gate,  and  one  can 
never  go  by-  a  gate,  you  know,  and  not  look  in,  and  it 
was  there  that  I  saw  her.  She  was  sitting  on  a  bench 
built  under  a  tree — the  trunk  of  which  did  for  the 
perpendicular  in  the  composition  and  gave  such  a  good* 
contrast  in  color,  too,  for  she^— well,  there  she  was  just 
sitting  there  with  her  hands  in  her  lap,  het  head  against 
the  tree  and  her  feet  out  in  front  of  her,  and  oh,  direams 
3f  loveliness— her  dress  was  pink  I  Think  of  that !  Rose 
pink  where  it  touched  the  grass,  lavender  pink  where 
it  fell  in  shadows,  shell  pink  where  the  sun  flickered  on 
it — and  in  her  hand  she  held  a  kind  of  golden  straw 
iat,  and  that  was  just  dripping  with  roses,  and  they 
Rrere  the  pinkest  of  all.  Oh!  it  was  a  picture  for  the 
jods.  I  made  quick  work  of  my  errand  and  hastened 
)ack  to  tell  David  about  it. 

''Well,  I've  3een  it,''  I  announced  breathlessly,  com- 
ng  up  the  slope. 

*'8eien  what?*'  asked  David,  not  stopping  from  his 
jlover  chain. 


g90  TYPEa  OF.  PBQSB  KABRATIVES 

''My  masterpiece,'*  I  answered,  squirting  out  much 
more  of  the  roae-madder  than. I  needed — this  paltry  lit- 
tle sketch  I  wa^  wprking  on.  now  would  h<ayQ  to  be  fin- 
i^shed  up  and  gotten  out  of  the  road  for  real  work. 

**  Where  r'  asked  David,  with  the  li^conic  briefness 
of  childhood. 

**Down  inside  the  big  gate — ^behind  the  stone  walL" 

**0h,  thaft'p  where  the  Cory's  li vie — ^there's  a  stream 
there,  with,  ppllywogs  in  it."  P^vid-'s  Jnijud  waa  begin- 
nipg  to  waoi^er. 

''But  you  never  saw  sudi  a  atudy  in  pink  iu  all 
your^  life — think  of  it— pink  dres*— rail  different  shfules 
of  pijak-^pink  roses  for  the .  high-note,  and  then  pale 
pink  repeated  in  the  cheeks  and  then  w^y  off  in  the 
background  there  were  some  pink  hollyhpefcB.*'  "My, 
oh,  my,"  I  added  to  n^yself,  stubbing  gamboge  into  the 
qai^vass  to  get  a  sunshiny  effect,  "My,  /oh,.  my — she  eat 
there  juat  like  a  Greuase-rra.  Gainsborough  lady^  now, 
never  would  have  bad  the  courage  to  have  leaned  against 
the  tree  in  that  lackadaisical  i^anner ;  the  Lady  in  Pink 
— Whistler  painted  a  Lady  in  Wbite-r-I  shall  paiat  the 
Lady  in  Pink!  Toiporrow  I  shall  begin.  David/'  I 
said,,  "tomorrow  I  am  going  down  to  get  my  master- 
piece.". 

"Well,  but  you. can't  gp  in  the  Cory's  to  get  it," 
said  David ; ' '  that's  picivate  girounds. "    . 

Private  groundi^l  The  words  stunned  me.  Couldn't 
an  artist  usually  go  any  place  he  liked  f 

"Private  groundja!"    I  echoed,  "ah,,  je^;  why  lAiat's 
so.    Why,  what  on  earth  will  I  do?" 
..   "I  4on't  know^"  3aid  David,  with' a  half^rising  in- 
flection showing  an  abstract  sympathy. 


THE  ENTEBTAININO  GEOUP  291 

^' Think  of  that!  And  there  it  all  is  just  waitinig 
to  be  paiiated.  Why,  look  herie,  DaTid,  hofw  on  earth 
did  ydu  ever  get  in  to  know  there  w^ere  poUywogsf " 

'*0h,"  said  David,  *' the  folks  were  aWay," 

"WeU,  I  will  wait  thai  £iil  they  are  all  away !  But, 
good  heavens,  what  am  I  thinkiKig  about !  The  garden 
isn't  what  I  want— it's  the  Lady  in  Pink."  I  began 
packiaig  up  my  paintstwtiheire  was  no  use  trying,  to  do 
anything  more  now. 

*^Well,  at  any  rate,  "we  will  go  down  tomorrow,*' 
said  I,  wiping  some  brushed  on  m^  handkerchiiafy  ':^aad 
maybe  in  the  oieanwhile  we  can  think  up  a  way  to 
get  in." 

**0h,  let's  go  now,"  suggested  David,  seeing  thai 
things  were  really  movingi 

^'You  mean  itf"  I  asked,  rather  astonished  at  hiil 
suddezK  desire  for  action;        ■  ^ 

'^AU  right,  then!  You  iold'>up  the  camp  stool  aiid 
umbrella  and  I'll  take  the  boix  and  the  pallet  along 
with  me." 

''Dear  me:!  What  on  earth  iiowwiU-we  ever  say 
when  we  get  there?"  I  began  on  the  way  down  the 
hill.  . 

**We  might  ask  for  a  glass  of  milk." 

**Clh,  no,  we  canH'da.that— *it  isn't  in  the  country."' 

'  'UTell,  I  might  ask  for  some  hollyh0ckSi' • 

''Weil,  I  guess  not:!  Th6  hollyhocks  can't  be  picked 
— ^they 're  part  of  the  masterpiece.^' 

"Then  you  thiaifc  something  .yourself,"  and  David 
lax>sed  into  a  discouraged  silence. 

But  I  couldin't  think  of  anything  save  that  I  must 
and  would  have  the  lady  a*  any  cost  and  though  I 


292  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NABEATIVES 

couldn't  see  how  I  was  going  to  get  it,  I  had  a  very 
clear  picture  of  myself  in  the  garden,  painting  away. 

**You  just  wait  till  we  get  there/'  I  said  to  David, 
as  we  stumped  down  the  walk  together.  David  was  used 
to  my  enthusiasms  over  all  sorts  of  things  which  he 
usually  only  vaguely  assented  that  he  could  see,  and 
though  he  never  said  much  when  I  fell  to  talking  ahout 
principles  of  art,  I  liked  to  have  him  with  me  always 
when  I  worked,  because  he  had  such  a  joyous,  fresh 
little  face.  I  couldn't  help  but  catch  the  sunshine  of  it 
when  I  did  an  outdoor  i^tch ;  and  if  I  had  lived  in  the 
days  when  no  picture  was  complete  without  a  Love  in 
it,  David  would  always  have  been  the  one  to  have  posed 
forme. 

Presently  we  came  near  the  gate  and,  to  speak  truly, 
I  was  becoming  a  bit  fearful  as  to  just  what  was  going 
to  happen,  but  David,  eager  and  anticipatory,  liopx>ed 
on  ahead  of  me  and  peered  in. 

''Oh I"  he  called  back,  "there  isn't  anything  here  at 
all." 

*'0h,  isn't  there?"  I  said;  **you  don't  mean  to  say 
it's  gone  in." 

**If  you  mean  the  lady,  she  isn't  here." 

And  true  enough,  when  I  came  up  there  wasn't  a 
soul  in  sight.;  How  empty  the  place  looked!  It  was 
just  like  a  disappointing  exhibition — here  were  aU  the 
people  come  to  see  the  great  works,  and  when  the  door 
was  reached,  there  hung  a  sign  which  said  that  the 
nia^agement  whjs  sorry,  but  the  best  paintings  had  been 
delayed  on  the  way,  and  wouldn't  be  herie  till  tomorrow 
at  two  o'clock!  I  gaajed  at  my  ruined  masterpiece— 
tte  background  was  all  there;  but  there  was  no  pic- 


THE  ENTERTAINING  GROUP  293 

tiure,  for  what  mesmog  had  broad  gre&n.  maases  of 
foliage  and  shaded  distances  apart  from  a  contrasting 
center  of  interest,  of  what  meaning  was  there  anyhow  in 
a  landscape  urithout  a  human  touch? 

Dayid  preased  his  hand  on  the  latch  of  the  gat? 
and  it  opened  for  hum.  I  have  always  liked  to  think 
since  tiiat  he  was  the  one  that  really  opened  the  way 
there. 

** Let's  go  in,"  he  smd  in  a  half . challen^g  whisper, 
hut  with  eyes  pleading  authority  fro^i  me. 

I  eooldnt  resist.  ''Well,  all  right— it  wilj  be  liJke 
Corot  wandering  around  in  the  forest  of  Fontainbleai; 
— and  if  anybody  ccwnes-'T — "  I  didn't  know  what  I 
would  do,  so  I  took  my  jMiUet  in  my  hand  fancying  to 
myself  it  wonld.  do  very  well  for  a  shield  against  any 
contingent.  So  we  slowly  walked  up  the  winding  palil^ 
together. 

- 'The  i)ol]ywQgs  are  ^ver  there,"  said  David,  pojpt: 
ing  a  slender  fitiger.  toward  th«  house.    . 

**You  neveir.mitid  them,"  I  answered,  "what  we  ^re 
here  for  is  to  get  th^  setting  of  this  picture.  My!  :AV 
most  any  view  would  do— ^I  never  saw  so  m^ny  colors 
in  all  my  life.*  Lpok^  David,  at  that  bust  over  there  with 
the  igifay-^reen  leaves  brushing  up  against  the  gray  stone 
~-oh,  theare  ought  to  be  a  peacock  under  there,  to  giv^ 
a  strong  iridescent  blue  note — do  you  suppose  there  is  a 
peacock' around  any  placet"  I  said,  laying  down  my 
pallet  and  circling  my  eye*  with  my  Mnds  so  as  to 
localise  the  color  massfes  better. 

But  David  was  sorting  pebbles. on  the  walk  and  so 
I  expected  no  answer  from  him,  but  was  scarcely  pr^ 
pared  for  the  Que  J  did  receive. 


294  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NAERATHTES 

*'No,  there  is  no  peaoock  here^  but--caii  I  do  any- 
thing for  you?'* 

'  I  swept  around  and  there  was  that  radiant  figure  in 
pink,  melting  into  the  green  behind  her,  the  soft  round- 
ness of  her  figure  echoed  in  the  larger  circiing  outlines 
of  the  trees,  her  broWn  hair  the  delicate  aounterpart  in 
color  of  the  ground  she  stood  on^  and  her'  eyes^  deep 
ultramarine,  the  concentrated  blue  of  all  the  pale  sky 
-^what  a  picture,  what  a«  picture  1  My  imagiiiation 
flew  to  grasp  it,  and  I  forgot  eTBrythiiig  but  that  I 
must  have  it.  Swept  up  elean  from  the  pallet  and  made 
living  on  the  canvas. 

"Yes,**  I  said,  "yes — there  is  something  you  can 
do  for  me.  You  can  stay  right,  thefre-^-or'  you  can  go 
over  there  and  sit  down,  while  I  get  you^'*  and  I  dashed 
back  to  the  g&te  after  my  paints. 

When  I  returned  she  was  still  standing  And  the 
comers  of  her  lips  were  twitching.:  They  were  vei^y  red. 
I  began  unpacking  my  tubes  and  unfolding  my  easel. 
"Wouldn't  you  like  to  dit  on  the  bench  over  there? 
You  have  no  idea  how  mu^h  the  tree  trunk  will  help 
out  the  composition."    And  I  begged  her  silently. 

But  she  stood  there  perfectly  stili  aiid  looked  at  me 
with  eyes  full  of  questiM ;  tSkey  had  a  moving  highlight 
in  them,  like  the  sun  on  a  wave— if  I  could  omly  catch 
that!  • 

' '  You  want  to  get  me  T '  she  finally  stalmmered. 
'  * '  Oh,  yes !  ? * ' I  said,  *^* don't  you  see  ?  I  was  walking 
by  the  gate  and  I  saw  you,  and  I  want  you  to  pose 
for  me, '^  and  then  as  I' ^saw  her  hesitate,  **oh,  surely 
you  don't  mind  being  gotten V  With  what  a  terror 
the  thought  filled  me — ^but  I  had  to  do  it  somehow. 


THi!  BNOrEKTAINIKO  GROUP  296 

**^ell^^-oiily— but  Why  don't  y&a  paint  the  Ifttle 

**0h,  David?  Oh,  I  paint  him  in  eT€frything:r-ihje 
comes  in  the  isunshine  and  the  blowing  wind  and  all 
the  feeling  of  movement  I  ever  get  in  a  picture — ^and 
then  if  people  are  happy  wh«n  they  look  at  the  picture, 
that  is  because  David  was  with  me  when  I  paiiited  it. 
David  is  a  little  Love/'  .       ' 

Well,  she  never  said  a  word,  but  I  think  she  under- 
stood what  I  meant,  because  she  went  over  and  sat 
down  and  called  David  to  her  and  began  talking  with 
him.  I  am  sure  I  had  no  idea  what  she  was  saying  to 
him,  because  I  set  to  the  w6rk  then  with  all  my  might. 
I  sketched  in  the  figure,-  and  set  up  my  pallet  with 
plenty  of  eolor  and  then  flfew  to  the  brushes;  it  seemed 
as  if  I  could  work  with  the  cullninative  inspiration  of 
all  the  paintifig  I  had  ever  done. 

While  I  was  blocking  in  the  hat  with' the  roses,  she 
looked  up. 

''Won't  you  tell  me  what  it  is  goihg  to  be?"  she 
asked  with  the  air  of  having  <  thought  of  the  question 
some  time  before.  •  .  ? 

**Well,"  I  replied,  knowing  I  would  have  to  make  a 
step  somehow,  **  Whistler  painted  a  Lady  in  White^  so 
I  thought  I  would  call  this  the  Lady  in  Pink;  aiid  if  it 
comes  out  and  1  really  get  you-        ** 

**If  you  really  get  ttief"  i   .      >•       : 

''Why,  yes;  if  1  can  just  catch  you  the  way  I  want 
you;  that  is  one  of  the  troubles  of  the  artist,  you  know 
—he  never  really  is  sure  whether  he  is  goihg  to  be  able 
to  get  what  he  wants  or " 

'*Not  even  when  he  iS' 80  eager  about  It?" 


296  TYPES  OP  PBOSE  NA««ATIVES 

'*No,  not  always  then,"  I  laughed,  womdering  tiiough 
if  she  didn't  know  that  inisfpiration  was  in  truth  some- 
thing more  than,  eagerness* 

'^Not  evCTi — ^when  he  is  painting  in  a  garden — ^like 
this?" 

Her  eyes  were  brimming  with  a  haU-ooneealed  mirth. 

**0h,  this  garden  is  a  lovely  place/'  I  answered, 
*'but  it  wouldn't  make  all  the  picture — there's  got  to 
be  some  spirit  in  it  beside— a  kiod  of  informing  mood. 
Now  it  is  very  quiet  here  and  you  are  posing  for 
me " 

**0h!  so  I  must  be  quiet,  too?" 

*'Ye8,  I  suppose  so,"  I  answered  boldly  enough; 
"only,  of  course,  a  different  kind  of  quiet,  you  know; 
for  if  the  garden  is  still,  that's  because-^well,  there 
isn't  anybody  mowing  the  grass,  or  there  isn't  any  wind 
or — oh,  the  quietness  of  a  person,  sitting  in  a  garden  is 
quite  a  difiEerent  thing." 

She  kept  looking  at  me  all  the  time  I  was  spying  this^ 
and  then  replied  slowly : 

* '  I  see ;  you  don 't  want  me  just  to  sit  still. ' ' 

*' Certainly  not,"  I  answered.  *'I  want  you  to  be—'  I 

Her  eyes  suddenly  beqame  dreamy,  and  I  felt  much  I 
more  at  ease.  { 

*'It's  like  David  and  the  sunshine,"  she  went  on- 

*'Yes,  just  exactly;  you  are  to  be  thq  spirit  of  the 
garden,  the  human  symbol  of  its  mood — ^its  real  mean- 
ing," and  happy  that  she  understood  the  way  I  felt 
about  David,  I  fell  to  laying  on  the  paint  in  broad,  ea^ 
strokes,  wondering  how  I  coUld  ^ver  imitate  the  emerald 
transparency  of  the  trees. 

She  did'  not  spebk-  again  and  pi^^esattly  my  glance 


THE  BISTPBETAIKING  GROUP  397 

retuniied  to  her.  She  Was  holding  David's  tap  in  her 
hand  atnd  loi^kiog.  out^^nowUerd,  I  ^m^as.  I  stopped 
my  work,  stepping  back  to  study  it  and  survey  thfe 
seeme. 

''I'm  glia^d  you  like. m^  garden/',  ^e  finally  siEiid, 
smiling;  and  such  a  smile  as  she  gave  iDie--4twas  lilci 
a  stream  of  gblden  haJESe  db  a  white  florwer,  a  change 
very  subtle;  aii^d  yet  so  striking. 

"Your  garden  is  the  very  best  place  yet  I've  found 
to  work  in/'  I  said^  well  pleased.  ''It  is  just  ai^  fine  a 
place  as  the  Forest  of  Fontainebleau,  and  Gorotdid  some 
great  masterpiiices  there/' 

"Well,  then,  this  isuuely  ought  to  be  yeui*  master^ 
piece,  beoausey  aceordoin^  to  your  own  definition,:  you 
have  all  the  .conditions  just  perfect;  the  garden^  and 
David-—" 

"Besides  y!ou,*'  I  interrupted^  looking  at  heir  through 
the  point  ol  :the  easel,,  .hoping  to  see-  the  snlile  again; 
but  she  had  suddenly  changed  her  poirition^  qui^.  un- 
conscious that  in,  doing  so  ishe  had  foiled  the  bomposi* 
tion.  But  it  made  no  difference,  for  I  already  had  the 
posture,  and  th^  d:if ess  with  its  lavender  and  abell-pink 
lights  and  all  the  green  behind — it  was  all  therfe  ton  th^ 
canvas,  ajad,the  echn  of  it  all  on  my  pallet  just  like 
the  memory  of  an  overture  whidh  has  played  with  all 
the  various  themes;  and  as  to  the  rest-^^h;  she  h^d  in- 
deed given  me  a  glimpse  of  tb^  tendel*  moofd  and  th0 
stilling  charm  with  Which  I  wished  .to  ftoish  thfe  pic- 
ture,   i  was  QuHfe  content. 

Presently  a  tide  of  yellow  evening  light  flooded  into 
the  garden,  making  the  ground  luminous  and  throwing 
deep  shadows  everywhere.    I  laid  down  my  brushes. 


398  TYPES  OJP  PBOSB  NABBATIVES 

.  '*I  shall  have  to  stop  now,"  I  said,  '^evening  is  com- 
ing on — I  shall  have  to  be  going/*  and  I  whistled  for 
David. 

He  came  running  across  the  grass,  one  band  full  of 
hollyhocks.  *  *  Oh,  my  6tars,  David  1 "  I  exclaiuaed,  * '  what 
have  you  been  doing  J'' 

** Never  mind,"  said  the  lady,  **you  know  you  have 
been  helping  yourself  to  things,  too,  "and.  she  rose  imd 
came  over.: 

.  ^*0h,  there  I  am,"  she  said  lightly,  looking  at  what 
I  had  A)ne. 

'*No,  indeed,"  I  hastened  to  assure  her,  ^Hhat  isn't 
yH>u-T-yet ;  so  far  it  is  a  composition  in  pink  and  green, 
but.  yoa  aren't  in  it.  When  I  put  in  the  sunlit  back- 
ground, then  David  comes,  you  know,  and  then  when  I 
put  a  gentle  repose  in  every  line  of  the  figure,  and  a 
dreamy,  tender  sweetness  in  the  face,  then  I  will  be 
indnting  the  real  spirit  of  ttie  garden— don't  you  seie  t" 

And  then,  oh,  my  heart,  she  smiled  again,  but  this 
time  such  a  smile  as  no  man  deserves  twice^-^^nd  stooped 
and  kissed  David. 

*'He  says  he  wants  to  get  me  for  his  painting,  David. 
ShaUIlethimf? 

''Why,  hasn't  he  gotten  you  already T'  ateked  David, 
tying  the  hollyhocks  with  grass. 

'/Yes,  I  think  he  has,"  she  answered  slowly.  "David, 
you  are. a  little  Love,"  she  added. 
.  ;"yes,  ishH  he,  though!^'  1  said. 

— Wilma  I;  Ball. 


THE  ENTBBTAININO  GBOUP  299 

m.    The  HtmioroiiiB  Story 

The  humorous  story  is  but  the  other  side  of  the 
society  story.  It  is  not  a  thorough  study  in  realism 
either,  for  tl^en  it  would  ])e  sad  for  a  large  part — ^as 
George  Meredith  has  shown  us;  but  it  is  rather  a  course 
of  events  more  or  less  skilfully  arranged  to  produce  a 
laugh.  There  is  transposition  here,  suppression  there, 
exaggeration  in  many  places. .  The  reader  joins  the 
author  in  the  conspiracy  to  concoct  fun,  and  as  a  result 
both  have  a  good  time.  The  refii;iement  and  taste  of 
thes^  narratives  range  all  the  long  distance  from  the 
vulgar  horse-play  and  impossible  dialect  of  the  news- 
paper ''funny  page"  to  the  genuine  humor  of  Mrs. 
Stowe's  **Sam  L^wson"  fireside  stories  and  the  quiet 
pleasantness  of  Sarah  OrnC;  Jewett 's  character  sketches 
in  ''The  Country  of  the  Pointed  Firs,"  Mark  Twain 
began  the  foui^dation  of  that  distinction  which  he  now 
has  as ;  the  greatest  of  modern  hupaorists  in  his  early 
volume  of  sketches, entitled  "The  Celebrated  Jumping 
Frog."  .     .      '  , 

This  type  of  story  probably  originated  in  the 
medieval  Fvexici^  fableau,^  which  was  a  short  humorous 
tale  of  .:^he  people — one  recounting  som^ 
ludicrous  situatio^.  Jt  was  generally  writ- 
ten in  pcto^Uabic  couplets,  a  metrical  form  which  was 
admirably  suited  to  sharp,  spirited  narrative  by  reason 
of.  ijts  .fikip,  its  carelessness,  its  sauciness.  Boccaccio 
and  ilia  long  train  of  Italian  and  other  followers  retold 
in  prose  n^any  of  these  French  stories ;  but  i,t  must  be 
admitted  that  the  condensation  and  the  rapidity  of  the 


*  I  follow  M.  Qaston  Paris 's  spelling  of  the  word. 


80d  TYPES  OP  PBQ9B\NABEATrTES 

older  metrical  tales  become  drSusfnesj^.  Bnd  sometimes 
tediousness  in  the  prose  version.  The  fableau  was 
Sometimeis  satiric;  usually  baldly,  even  coarsely  real- 
istic. Its  purpose,  however,  was  always  to  amuse. 
Chaucer  retold  five  or  fliore  fableaux.  He  is  a  jolly 
narrator,  and  carries  one  along  often  in  spite  of  one's 
prejudice  in  favor  of  modesty  and  decency.  He  is 
holiest  enough,  however,  to  warn  the  reader  of  possible 
unpalatableness  and  modem  enough  to  attempt  to 
excuse  himself  on  the  basis  of  art. 

That  the  picaresque  romances  embody  such  stories 
as  the  fableau  is  perfectly  Evident.  Dissect,  for  in- 
Picaresque  stance,  **Lazarillo  de  Tormes,*'  or  better, 
romance  "Guzman  de  Alfai'ache,''  and  you  will  see 
that  the  various  adventures  of  the  heroes  would  make 
capital  fableaux  or  humorous  confes.  The  idea  of  com- 
bining low  adven1:ures  into  a  sieries  connected  with  one 
hero  (joines  down  from  the  days  of  Nero,  when 
Petronius  Arbiter  wrote  his  '/Satyricoii.*'  But  the 
lerln  picaresque  romance  refers  to  the  Spanish  popular 
tales  of  the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  centuries,  the 
heroefe  of  which  are  rascals,  or  picarOS.  As  sharpers, 
they  are  the  prototypes  of  our  more  modem  Yankee  in 
fiction  who  always  ^'does'^^  the  other  fellow  before  the 
other  fellow  "does''  him.  Some  of  them,  like  the 
"Yarik,^'  are  not  so  much  mean  as  just  bold  and 
resourceful  when  at  a  disadvantaged  They  go  to  court 
like  the  Connecticut  Yankee  and  see  their  bettters, 
whom  they  criticise  most  sf raiightf orwardly.  '  They  are 
older  and  naughtier '  Tom  Sawyeris  and  Huckleberry 
Finns.  In  short,  by  theit"  vernacular  of  the  highway 
and  by  their  impudent  deeds  they  stand  in  the  his- 


^HE  EKtTERTAlNING  OROHP  ^± 

torieal  line  of  types  irMch  includes  the  heroes  of  the 
fableau  and  the  heroes  of  the  modern  burlesque  4Dr 
comic  tale.  The  difiterenee  between  hunLorous  and 
comic  and  between  comic  and  burlesque  is  a  diflSepence 
of  degree. 

Of  the  ditect  imitations  of  these  Spanish  rogues 
there  is. the  BVench  Gil  Bias;  thece  are  the  EJngljfsh 
Boderiok  Ra^idiom,  Jonathan  Wild,  ai^d  Midisf  Becliy 
Sharp ;  there  is  the  Amateur  Cracksman ;  and,  come  to 
think  about  it,  there  is  Ojur  own  late  American  Satur- 
day Evemng^  Past's  ubiquitous  Mr.  Farthest  North, 
promoter,  success  attend  him! 

To  write  a  humorous  story  you  will  need  to  employ 
epigram,  poiot,  climax,  colloquialisms,  and  perhaps 
dialect.  If  yiou  touch  dialect,  however,  take  care  to 
know  what  you  are  about ;  for  nothing  i^  wore  rei>el- 
lent  to  a  reader  familiar  with  a  particular  vernacular 
than  to  be  confronted  with  pitiful  and  incorrect 
attempts  at  it..  To  write  negro  dialect  you  should  be 
as  well  versed  as  Joel  Chandler  Harris ;  to  write  Irish, 
act  apt  as  Samuel  Louver  or  W.  B*  Yiaats;  to  reveal. chil- 
dren, as  sympathetic  as  Kate  Douglas  Wigging  to  give 
us  boy's  fun,  as  charming  and  wholesome  as  Thomas 
Bailey  Aldrich ;  to  combine  hunjor  and  the  ingenious  tale, 
you  fthpuld  be  as  inventive  as  Frai?ik  E.  Stockton;  ^nd  to 
smUe  at  Americpins  and  their  foibles  you  shpuld ,  be  as 
patriotic  and  kindly  as  Charles  Battell  Loomis. 

George  Washiipigton ,  Cable,  Ian  Maclaren,  Thomas 
NetoQn  Page,  J.  M.  Barrie,  and  Mary  E.  Wilkins  Free- 
man have,  written  excellent  dialect,  but  they  a^e  npt 
primarily  humorists.  They  use  the  vernacular  of  the 
people  as  aids  to  charajelfer  revelation, 


302  TYPES  OF  PB08E  NAKBATIVBS 

The  difference  between  a  humorou?  story  aod  comic 
anecdote  is  the  diflference  of  length  and  veiracity.  An 
anecdote  purports  to  be  true;  A  humorous  i^ory,  only 
'drawn  from  life." 


The  Bzpatriatlfm  of  Jonatliajn  TalaJ^r 

While  I  was  in  London  I  met  a  New  Ydrk  friend  who 
was  stopping  in  that  Atneriea-in-London,  Bloomsbury,  and 
during  our  conversation  he  told  me  that  he  had  for  a 
fellow-boarder  no  less  a  person  than  Jonathan  Tailitoi^. 

I  felt  that  I  ought  to  know  Jonattlian'Tairitor,  and  I 
have  since  found  out  that  most  people,  have  heard  some- 
thing concerning  him;  but  although  th^  name  had-  a  good 
old  Connecticut  sound,  I  could  not  fit  Mr.  Taintor  into  any 
nook,  so  I  frankly  said  to  my  friend :  *^ Jonathan  Taintor 
lies  in  the  future  for  me.^' 

^TVTiy,  1^11  have  to  introduce  you.  I  believe  he's  been 
written  up  before,  but  he  ^s  feuch  a  character  that  it  will  do 
you  good  to  meet  him.  Can't  you  come  to  dinner  to- 
night?'' 

Now,  I  had  been  reckoning  on  going  that  evening  to  the 
opera  at  Covent  Garden ;  but  characters  do  not  pop  around 
every  corner,  and,  besides,  I  had  not  seen  my  New  York 
friend  for  a  long  time,  so  I  accepted  his  eorfial  invitation. 

That  evening  at  seven  I  went  to  the  American  boarding- 
house  in  Bedford  Place,  just  off  High  Holborn^  and  was 
soon  sitting  at  dinner  with  my  friend.  ■ 

Directly  opposite  me  sat  a  man  Who  might  have  left 
the  valley  of  the  Connecticut  five  minutes  before.  There 
are  Taintors  all  about  the  Haddams  that  look  just  like 

Eeprinted  by  permission  from  Loomis's  "Cheerful  Ameri- 
cans."    Copyright,  Henty  Holt  and  Conipaliy. 


THE  BNTBKTAINING  GBOUP  303 

him.  He  was  short,  thick^eet,  with  dreamy  blue  eyes,  a 
ruddy  face  that  betokened  a  correct  life,  a  curved  nose, 
broad,  straight^  shaven  upper  lip,  and  a  straggling  silver 
chin-beard. 

There  was  more  or  less  twang  in  the  tones  of  efvery  one 
at  the  table,  but  his  voice  had  a  special  nasal  quality  that 
seemed  to  bespeak  a  lifetime  of  bucolic:  Yankee  existence. 
It  was  really  so  pronounced  as  to  sound  stagy. 

The  talk  at  dinner  was  desultory,  and  Mr.  Taintor  said 
little.  I  noticed  that  he  had  a  dish  of  corned  beef  and 
cabbage,  although  the  piece  de  resistance  for.  the  rest  of  us 
was  beef  with  a  Yorkshire  pudding.  He  left  the  table 
before  coffee  was  served,  but  not  before  my  *  friend  had 
asked  him  to  join  us  later  on  the  balcony  for  a  smoke  and 
chat. 

When  we  went  up  we  found  him  already  on  the  balcony, 
smoking  a  corn-cob  pipe  of  American  manufacture.  My 
friend  introduced  us,  and  he  shook  my  hand  with  one 
downward  jerk.  How  often  have  I  felt  that  pressure  in 
the  rural  districts  of  Connecticut ! 

When  Mr.  Taintor  learned  that  I  had  been  in  London 
only  a  week  and  had'  just  come- from  MiddletoWn/his  face 
lighted  up  with  interest,  and  he  said : 

'^You  have  passed  my  wife  in  the  street.  She  often 
comes  to  town  market  days.^^ 

^^Oh,  then  she^s  not  with  you/^  was  my  somewhat  idiotic 
reply.  .    . 

"No,  she  ain^t ;  an*  unless  the  good  Lord  heaves  enough 
sand  into  the  Atlantic  to  make  the  walkin'  good,  she  won't 
never  be  with  me.'^ 

"You  must  be  anxious  to  get  back?  Been  over  here 
some  weeks?*'  said  L  : 


804  TYPES  OP  PBOSB  NABRATIVES 

"A  matter  of  thirty  year/'  lie  replied,  and  sighed  prodi- 
giously. 

"Why,  you  must  be  quite  an  Englishman  by  this  time." 

He  looked  troubled.    "Dew  I  look  English  ?"  said  he. 

"No,  no,^'  I  replied,  comfortingly;  "you  might  pass  for 
Uncle  Sam/' 

"Well,  I  hope  I'll  never  pass  fer  anythin'  wuss,''  said 
he.  "It  's  jest  thirty  year  in  NoYember  sence  I  left 
America,  an'  I  Ve  be'n  in  this  dreary  taown  erer  sence ;  but 
1  ain't  never  read  an  English  noospaper  nor  ridden  in  an 
English  omnibus  or  horse^car  or  steam-car,  neither,  an'  I 
try  to  eat  as  much  as  possible  what  I  would  ef  I  was  at 
home  with  Cynthy.    An'  I  'm  a  Republican  clean  through/' 

"Well,  what 's  keepijag  you  here?'^  said  L 

Mr.  Taintor  pressed  down  the  tobacco  in  his  pipe  to 
make  it  buta  better,  and  said :  "I  can't  stan' the  trip.  Y' 
see,  when  we  was.manriied  we  thought  we'd  (taross  the  ocean 
on  aour  weddin'-trip.  Father  hed  Icf  nde  comfor'ble,  an' 
Cynthy  hed  be'n  dead-set  on  crossin'  all  through  aour 
courtship.  Fact  is,  her  sister  Sairy  said  'at  'at  was  all 
she  was  marryin'  fer;  but  of  course  Sairy  was  a  great 
joker,  an^  I  knowed  better.  Well,  \<^o;  wenlfedaown  to  Noo 
York  the  day  before  the  steamer  sailed,  an'  we  put  up  at 
a  hotel  there  on  Broadwiay,  an'  durin'  the  evenin'  some 
women  got  talkin'  to  Cynthy,  an'  told  her  haow  awful  sick 
she  was  like  to  be  ef  she  tied  n't  neiser  be'n  on  the  ocean 
before.  Well,  it  frightened  her  so  that  she  backed  plumb 
aout  er  the  harness— ^said  she  guessed  we*d  better  go  to 
Saratogy  instead ;  an'  the  upshot  was  we  hed  aour  fust  an' 
last  quar'l  then.  I  told  her  I'd  bought  the  tickets  fer 
Europe  an'  we'd  hey  to  go,  an'  .she  ^aidishe  would  n'  expose 
herself  to  two  or  three  weeks  of  sicknefes  under  the  idee  it 


THE  ENTERTAINING  GROUP  305 

was  a  picnic  party,  an^  all  I  could  say  to  her  could  n^t 
shake  her.  Well,  it  was  bad  enough  losin^  the  price  of  one 
ticket,  but  I  could  n't  lose  the  price  of  two,  an'  so  we 
finally  come  to  an  agreement.  She  was  to  go  up  to  Bara^ 
togy,  although  the  season  up  iher'  was  over,  an'  I  was  to 
cross  the  ocean  alone.  It  was  too  late  to  git  my  money 
back,  an',,  to  tell  the  tnzth,  I  allers  did  hate  to  give  a  plan 
up,  'thout  I  hed  sufficient  reason ;  so  iiex'  mornin'  we  went 
daowB  to  the  dock,  fgr  we  'd  made  up),  an'  she  was  corain^ 
ter  see  me  off.  She  took  on  consid'able,  an'  I  was- out  up 
ni3rse'f,  paxticlarly  when  I  thou^t  of  tbe. ticket  thet  was; 
beia'  thrown  away.  But  she  •caught  a  glimpse  t)f  the  wave*' 
behind  a  ferry-b©at,  an'  she  turtied  \Thite  as'  a  sheet  an* 
shook  her  head ;  so .  I  kissed  her  good-by,  an'  the  steainer 
sailed  away  with  me  pn  it,  an'  ber  a-wavin'  her  arms  an* 
cryin'  on  the  dock." 

"Poor  fello-v^ !"  said  I,  sympathetically. 

^'W^ll,  the  amount  of  seasickness  she  saved  herself  by 
stayin'  to  hum  could  n't  be  reckoned  'thougt  I  was  a 
scholar,  which  I  ain't.  I  took  to  my  berth  before  we  was 
aout  of  sight. of  landi,  an'  ef  the  brimstun  of  the  future  is 
any  wuse  'an  what  I  suffered,  I  don't  want  to  die.  But  I 
wished  I  could  die  all  the  way  over.  I  come  right  here  to' 
LoDidon,  because  there  was  a  man  I  kne^  comin'  here,  too, 
an^  I  wrote  to  Cynthy  to  come  right  over  as  soon  as  she 
could,  aa'  we'd  live  aour  lives  aout  here;  fer  bad  as  it  was 
here,  nothin'  on  top  of  creation  could  temp'  me  to  go  back, 
not  even  her  pretty  face." 

He  stopped  a  minute  and  half*  closed  his  eyes,  •  and  I 
fancy  he  was  calling  her  pretty  face  back  through  the 
thirty  years. 

"Well,  well,  that  was  hard  lines,"  said  I. 


80e  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

^^Yes,  but  it  was  wuss  when  I  got  her  reply.  She  told 
me  she  hed  n't  hed  a  happy  minute  sence  I  left,  although 
she  hed  gone  up  to  Saratogy,  but  the'  water  tasted  like 
something  wa&  into  it,  an^  she'd  come  away  after  one  day, 
an*  was  now  on  the  farm  at  Qoodspeed^s  Landing.  An' 
she  said  thet  ef  Vd  be'n  so  sick  she  d  probacy  die,  an'  she 
could  n't  bear  to  think  of  bein'  heaved  into  the  Atlantic, 
an'  must  stop  where  she  was.  Ah  me !  Sence  then  we  've 
be'n  as  lovin'  as  we  could  be,  writin'  regular  an'  rememberin' 
each  other's: birthdays  an'  aonr  weddin'  anniversaries; 
but  we  hain't  sot  eyes  on  each  other,  an'  won't  until 
we  're  both  safe  on  that  other  shore  they  tell  ns  abaout. 
An'  I  h(>pe>  thet  trip  '11  be  a  stnooth  one." 

"And  what  does  Mrs.  Taintor  do  air  alone?'* 

He  knocked  the  ashes  out  of  his  pipe  and  put  it  into 
his  pocket  before  he  replied : 

*^She  runs  the  old  farm  as  I  neVer  could  have  run  it. 
She's  a  born  farmer,  that,  wife  of  mine  is.  She  has  a 
hired  man  to  help,  but  she  does  a  good  share  of  the  work 
herself,  an'  every  year  she  sen's  me  half  the  airnings;  an' 
I  live  on  here,  hatin'  it  all  an'  hopin'  for  the  time  to  come 
when  the  oeean'U  either  dry  up  or  freeze  over,  or  that 
Cynthy  will  overoonie  her  dislike  to  the  trip.  Married 
life  ain't  e'zac'ly  pleasant  so  fur  apart,  but  I  c'n  truthfully 
say  we  've  never  quar'led  sence  I  come  here,  an'  I  ain't 
seen  a  woman  sence  I  landed  thet  could  hold  a  candle  to 
Cynthy.    Cynthy  is  a  pretty  gal." 

Shortly  afterward  the  old  man  retired  to  his  own  room, 
and  then  my  frieiid,  who  had  not  spoken  once  since  we  came 
out,  wickedly  hinted  that  maybe  Mr.  Taintor  only  ima- 
gined that  he  loved  Cynthia,  and  that  they  were  happier 

^arated ;  but  I  hate  to  spoil  idyls  in  that  way.    To  me  it 


THE  ENTEKTAINING  OBOUP  307 

is  very  beaatifQl^  the  iihougfat  of  that  dear  old. lady  in 
ConndCticut^  .who  runa  the. farm  and  wxites  loving  letters 
to  her ;  expatriated  spouse  and  sendtj  him  a  share  of  the 
profits^  bnt  wha  cannot  overcome  her  antipathy  to  the. 
unstable  sea.  And  when  I  think  of  Mr.  Taintor  aa  he 
appeared  that  evening  in  Bloomsbury,  with .  his  honest 
Yankee  traditions^  aiid  his  ardent  love  for  his  absent' wife, 
I  say,  ^Hiurah  for  both  of  them  V' 

— Charles  Battell  Loomis. 


.  Klleto  and  tlie  Pliysician 

It  was  now  about  a  month  ailid  a  half  since  Eileto 
felt  something'  harsh  in  hid  throal.  He  took  a  mirror 
and  opened  his  mouth  as  wide  as  possible.  On  looking 
at  the  mirror  he  saw  soine  of  his  large  papillae.  He 
was  so  greatly  frightened  to  see  such  **red  bodies/'  as 
he  called  them,  that  he  exdaimed,  **Ah,  dear  Life,  you 
are  going  to  depart  soon!  But,  anyhow,  I  will  at  once 
go  to  th«  doctor^  to  hftve  these  things  identified. ''  With- 
out further  delay,  he  went  to  a  doctor,  whose  name 
I  must  not  merition,  lest  he  be  angry  with  me  for  pub- 
lishing this  piede  of  news.' 

The  doctor,*  after  examining  Kileto's  ttiroait,  opened 
his  book  of  medicine  and  searched  in  it  for  half  an  hour. 
Then  after  he  wafe  tired  of  not  finding  the  right  place 
to  read,  he  said  to  Kileto,  **Such  sickness  as  you  have' 
is  rarely  found  in  other  men.  Your  disease  is  called 
*Sampaga'  in  our  dialect.  However,  I  will  give  you  a 
pre*ription.''  ** Doctor,"  said  Kileto,  ''do  you  think  I 
shall  ever  b^  cared  of  my  sickness?"    ''Why,  yes,"  an- 


308  TTPES  OF  PE08E  NABRATIYES 

srwered  tbe  doctor;  ^'only  it  will  take  several  mimths 
before  your  disease  can  be  cured.  Perhaps,  with  the 
help  of  God  and  me,  you  will  recover  sooner.  I  want 
to  ask  you  several  questions..  Will  yott  answer  me 
patiently?" 

''•Yes,"  answered  Kileto. 

"Well,  do  you  smoke  cigarettes  t" 

''Tes,  sir;  three  packages  a  day  wtmld  nrot  be 
suflSeient.f 

'*Well,  this  is  the  first  habit  you  must  abstain  from. 
Do  you  chew  betel-nut?" 

''Yes,  sir." 

"That  is  the  second  habit  you  must  abstain  from. 
Do  you  often  go  to  church?" 

',*Yess^  sir;  once  in  a  year,  if  my  wife  iuippejis  to 
remind  me  of  it." 

' '  You  !^— a  Cathqlie ! — or  a  pagan  ? "   • 

"I  am  both  Catholic  and  pagan." 

"Well,  well,  if  ever  you  expect  t9  recover,  these 
three  things  you, must  do — ^youmust  fibstai?!  from  /smok- 
ing, chewing  Ijetel-jaut,  and  you  must  go  to  eburch  every 
Sunday,  for  the  purificatioai  of  your  soul." 

Kileto  went  home,  somewhat  relieved.  He  told  his 
wife  what  the  doctor  bade  htm  <}o.  .  He .  did  all  that 
the  doctor  had  ordered.  He  went  to  the  church  every 
day — morning  and  afternoon — ^praying  the  whole  "roaa- 
rio."  Moreover,  he  confessed  his  sizis  to  the  pries^.  He 
abstained  from  smoking  and  from  chewing  betei-nut. 

Every  day,  after  he  had  gone  to  church,  he  went 
to  consult  the  doctor,  who  always  gave  him  medicine. 
Almost  all  sorts  of  poisons  to  kill  bacteria  were  pre- 
scribed*     One  day  the  doctor  said  to  Kileto,  "Do  not 


rmi  BNl'ERTAINING  QBOtJP  309 

[?ome  here  for  several  days.  I  am  going  to  sttidy  about 
youT  sickness.  I  will  tell  you  the  truth— you  will  die 
«rhen  your  gampaga  buwsts.*'  This  statement  of  Ae 
lioctor  made  Kileto  Tory  sad. 

After  a  week,  Kileto  consulted  tho  dootoir  again.  **I 
think,*'  said  the  doctor,  **I  had  better  bnrn  your  'sam- 
paga.' "  What  do  you  say  f 

**  Well,  yoU  miay  do  whatever  you  think  best." 

**But  no,"  rejoined  1*6  doefor;  I'd  better  injeet 
nedicine  into  your  body." 

^*A11  right,  fiif.  I  told  you  that  you  may  do  what- 
ever you  think  best."  T^en  the  doctor  injected  medi- 
dne  into  Kileto 's  body.  Kileto,  because  of  the  results 
)f  this  injectkn,  was  •  displeased  with  the  doctor,  for  he 
nould  hardly  wa)k  iMone. 

One  dajy^  as  Eileto's  wife  was  looking  in  a  mirror, 
(he  found  the  image  of  her  large  papillae,  which  were 
ike  her  hubband's.  Of  course,  sbef  was  very  much 
rrightened,  lest  she  'also  had  ^'Sampaga."  She  took  her 
;mall  boy  of  t^n  years  to  the  window  and  looking  at  his 
:ongue,  fotmd  o«t  that  he  also  had  papillae.  ''These 
lampagtts,*'  «he  said,  ''must  be  common."  So  she  ex- 
rmined  the  tcmgues  of  everybody  who  came  near  her. 
'Ah!"  she  exclaimed,  "these  things  must  be  natural. 
)h,  GkMi,  you  save  my  husband  I  But  I  will  fool  my 
lusband.  I  will  tell  him  I  have  the  same  disease  that  he 
las." 

When  her  husband  came,  she  immediately  led  him  to 
;he  window  and  showed  her  papillae.  '* You  see,"  she 
laid,  "I  have  the  same  disease  as  you  have.  How 
low?  Then  we  shall  die  together."  To  frighten  her 
lusband  more,  she  said,  ^'Open  your  mouth,  and  let  me 


310  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NABBATIVBS 

see  how  your  'satapaga^'  are  getting  along/'  Then 
Kileto  opened  his  mouth.  His.  wife  examined  then,  and 
said  to  him,  ''Your  sampagas  .ajre  increasing."  At  this 
statement  Kileto  jumped  with  great  horror,  and  said, 
*  *  Oh,  yes,  my  end  is  coming, "  **  Now  1  9^e, ' '  replied  the 
wife,  '*how  like  a  small  hoy  you  are.  I  have  been  told 
by  a  student  that  with  thes6  *red  bodies*  w,e  taste  our 
food.  So  you  need  not  be  afraid.  Just  look  at  the 
tongues  of  everybody, 'and  yo'u  ^ill.sije  that  they  have 
the  'papillae,'  as  the  student  6lills  them." 

Kileto  was  convin!e6d,5a»dii?egretted  the  great  error 
he  had  committed.  He  :bad  sqp^nt  on  medicine  all  his 
and  his  wife  ^s  earnings  for  twto  yeara; 

One  day  Kileto,  when  left  cdone  in  the  house,  said 
to  himself,  **I  know  now  the  reascwa  Why  the  doctor 
said  that  I  would  dijB  ,when  my  'sampagaa*  burst.  Of 
coujse,  these  are  not  'sampa^^';  and  how  could  they 
burst?  These  thingd^-grow  with  the  man.  I  am  uncer- 
tain, however,  whether  the  doictorhad  a  private  purpose 
in  not  tellitig  me- at  oiice  that  the  things  <  I  have  on  my 
tongue  are  'papiUae,'  or  whether  he  had  not  acquired 
enough  knowledge  in  his  medieal  studies  to  be  able  to 
distinguish  the  papillae  from  the  diseaiae  eallad  'sam- 
paga.'    '  . 

''But  in  spite  of  all  this  ttouble  he  gave  me — in- 
jecting medicine,  into  my  limbs^  whibb  made  me  lame 
for  three  days,  wringing,  as  it  were,  all  my  money 
from  my  hands—*!  am  grateful. to  him.  Why?  Because 
I  waft  made  religious,  going  to  church  Once  .every  two 
days,  I  abstained  from,  chewing  betel-nut,  and  smoking 
cigarettes,  and  now  I  care  no  more  for  them.'* 

Whenever  the  members  of  the  family  .are  in  good 


THE  ENTERTAINING  GBOUP  811 

humor,  they  talk  of  this  story  and  laugh  until  they  are; 
out  of  breath. 

—Lorenzo  Licup. 

A  FILIPINO  FASLEAU^ 
The  Lame  Hain  and  the  Deaf  Family 

One  cloudy  afternoon  while  I  was  wandering  along 
the  road  between  Paeo  and  Pajtidaean,  I  met  a  lame  man 
limping  down  the  way.  The  man  seemed  very  tired^  and 
he  was  carrying  on  his  head  a  pot  which  I  thought 
contained  water.  The  fellow  was  a  mestizo  and  was 
dressed  in  a  white  suit.  Seeing  me,  he  said,  **Will  you 
please  show  mie  a  house  where  I  can  ask  for  a  drink 
of  water  r^  I  could  not  answer  him  at  onoe,  because 
I  nearly  laughed  in  his  face  Vhen  I  saw  it  was  only 
kis  long  bigote  that  made  his  split  upper-lip  unnoticed 
at  a  distance.  Wishing  to  have  some  fun  out  of  him  I 
showed  him  the  house  that  stood  in  an  orchard  on  one 
side  of  the  road. 

The  house  that  I  pointed  out  belonged  to  a  family  all 
the  members  of  which  were  deaf;  namely,  the  father,  the 
mother,  and  a  daughter.  Because  of  a  kind  of  sibkness 
that  occurred  in  the  family  some  years  before,  they  had 
lost  their  sense  of  hearing.  .People  had  nicknamed  them 
the  **Deaf  Family.'' 

The  man,  or  Mr.  Bigote  as  I  shall  call  him  in  honor 
of  his  long  mustache,  went  limping  directly  to  the  house ; 
and,  without  letting  Mr.  Bigote  notice  me,  I  followed 


iThis  is  a  translation  of  a  Tagalog  prose  version.  The  episocle  of. 
the  story  appears  in  metrical  form  as  a  beggar  *s  song  among  the 
Pampangos. 


31^  TTI'ES  OF  PROSE  NAEEATIVES 

him  and  hid  behind  tlie  tall  gFasses  tha;!  grew  near  the 
orchard.  From  my  place  I  had  a  good  view  of  th«  or- 
chard and  could  hear  the  conversation  between  Mr. 
Bigote  and  the  members  of  the  family. 

The  orchard  was  a  trapezium  in  shape.  Except  the 
front,  which  was  separated  by  a  wire  fence  from  the 
road,  all  sides  of  it  were  surrounded  by  tall  grasses.  On 
^aeh  vertex  of  the  trapezium  stood  an  ilang-ilang  tree. 
At  the  center  stood  a  small  nipa  hou^e  facing  the  road. 
Arouiid  fhe  house  were  seyeralbanana  trees  and  ^eamote 
plants.  The  house  was  old,  and  yet  its  stairs  were  made 
of  stone.  Under  the  bambo6  floor  of.  the  building  I 
could  see  a  large  blind  dog.  Near  the  foot  of  the  stairs 
tlie  daughter  of  the  Deaf  Family  was  sitting  on  a  stone, 
giving  food  to  her  hog.  It  was  a  very  fat  hog,  but 
neither  ear  nor  tail  could  be  seen  atfaehed  to  its  great 
body. 

The  dialogue*  was  b^un  by  Mr.  Bigotis.  *  ^  Oood  morn- 
ing, madam,*'  he  said  politely. 

'*We  do  not  want  to  sell  our  hog,  sir,"  answered  the 
girl. 

**I  do  not  mean  to  buy  your  hogj  but  I  only  ask  for 
a  drink  of  water,  for  I  am  very  thirsty,"  said  the  lame 
man  quietly. 

**Sir,  it  is  very  fat,  because  I  always  feed  it  well. 
You  will  not  see  its  ears  and  tail  because  that  bad  dog 
ate  them  when  their,  owner  was  yet  small,"  answered 
the  girl,  pointing  to  the  Mind  dog  that  was  barking  at 
Mr.  Bigote. 

Noticing  that  she  did  not  hear  him  very  well.  Mr. 
Bigote  shouted,  ^*Let  me  have  a  drink  of  water!" 

''Mother,  here  is  a  man  who  wants  to  buy  our  hog,'* 


THB  ENTEBTAIiaNQ  6B0UP  813 

shouted  the  yoimg  person  to  her  mother,  who  wss  then, 
I  supposed,  oooking  their  lunch. 

The  mother  peeped  through  the  window  and  when 
she  saw  Mr.  Bigote  exelaimed  angrily,  ^'What !  Are  you 
going  to  marry  that  Bangusf  1  will  wake  your  .father. 
Tambucio,  here*  is  your  daughter.   She  wants  to  marry  a 

*'l  am  only  asking  for  a  drink  of  water,  madam,'' 
said  Mr.  Bigote. 

But  when  the  father  saw  his  wife  very  angry  at  tiM 
man  who  was  standing  near  their  stairs,  he  asked  Mr. 
Bigote  angrily,  **Why  did  you  hurt  my  dog?" 

'^Do  not  be  ftngry,  air.  I  oome  to  ask  for  a  drink  of 
water  and  not  to  harm  your  dog,''  answered  Mr.  Bigoteu 

Thinking  that  the  man  had  said  something  bad  to 
him,  the  father  took  a  pieee  of  wood  and  went  down 
stairs.  Seeing  the  danger,  Mr.  Bigote  nan  limping  to 
the  road,  but  the  father  followed  him  and  atruek  the  pot 
he  was  carrying  on  his  head.  .  The  pot,  which  I  bad 
thought  contained  water,  was  broken,  and  I  was  very 
mfuOh  mrprised  to  see  Mr.  Bigote  covered  with  mo- 
]a«ae8. 

— ^ntiago  Y.  Botea. 

IV.    The  Oceastonal  Story 

A  story  for  a  special  occasion  may  be  of  any  aais 
rative  type  the  authiot  chooses:  it  may  be  a 
legend,  a  tale  of  mere  wonder,  a  humorous  of  ^e 
story,  :a  study  in  irealism,  a  weird  tale,  or  occaaioiial 
a  ghost  story  (if  one  should  select  All  Saints'  ^  ^ 
Eve).:   Anything,  the  author  feels  inclined  to  write 


314  TYPES  OF  PHOSB  NARRATIVES 

.will  fall  within  the  class  provided  it  have  about  it  the 
general  atmosphere  of  a  particular  celebration.  If 
that  be  the  Fourth  of  July,  the  reader  expects  patriot- 
ism or  its  popular  substitute,  firecrackers;  if  Thanks- 
giving, gladness  and  generosity;  if  Christmas,  rever- 
ence  and  good-will,  and  for  the  Northern  people  some 
pagan  jollity  in  addition,  for  it  is  well  recognized  that 
we  Anglo-Saxons  have  incorporated  into  the  Christian 
festival  our  Druidical  Yule-tide;  if  New  Year's,  then 
forgiveness  and  well-wishing  to  all  and  a  sense  of 
everybody's  putting  his  best  foot  foremost;  if  Easter, 
hope  and  the  joy  of  spring-time. 

It  might  be  well  to  think  and  read  a  little  about 
Easter  if  you  want  to  'write  a  special  story.  Not  much 
Its  has  been  done  w^itfa  that  season,  though  it  is 

matters  full  of  possibilities.  It,  too,  is  a  combination 
of  old  and  new  ideals.  We  have  many  beautiful 
Christmas  legends  and  tales,  even  by  the  great  anthers 
— ^Dickens,  Thackeray  and  many  of  the  French  and 
Spanish  short^story  tellers;  and  by  our  later  vrnters, 
as  well.  Professor  Van  Dyke,  Professor  Mabie^  Kate 
Douglas  Wiggin,  William  Canton,  Bret  Harte,  almost 
everyonie  who  has  written,  in  fact,— but  Easter  stories 
are  harder  to  find. 

The  English-speaking  people  have  not  so  many 
special  days  as  have  the  Latin.  The  adherents  of  the 
BvLg'  Catholic  church  have  all  the  Saints'  days  to 

gestions  celebrate.  These  yield  many  pretty  fancies. 
Eeats:  has  made  famous  St.  Agnes'  Eve.  The  other 
religions,  too,  are  worth  thinking  about.  The  Moham- 
medans and  the  Buddhists  are  devotees,  and  have 
interesting  customs.    Besides  the  religious  memorials 


THE  ENTERTAINING  GROUP  816 

;here  i^re  the.  nations'  hero  days.  And  then,  too,  the 
ipeeial  anniversaries  of  societies  and  associations. 
)ne's  own  school  commencement,  the  best  event  of 
)ne's  favorite  college — there  are  surely  many  inspira- 
ions  for  occasional  stories. 


\ 


The  Lost  Child 


On  that  morning,  which  was  the  morning  before  Christ- 
nas,  two  important  events  happened  siniultaneously — the 
lun  rose,  and  so  did  M..  Jean-Baptiste  Godefroy. 

Unquestionably  the  sun,  illuminating  suddenly  the  whole 
rf  Paris  with  its  morning  rays,  is  an  old  friend,  regarded 
v^ith  affection  t)y  everybody.  It  is  particularly  welcome 
ifter  a.fo:irtnight  of  misty  atmosphere  and  gray  skies,  when 
he  wind  has  cleared  the  air  and  allowed  the  sun's  rays 
o  reach  the  earth  agai^.  Besides  all  of  which  the  sun 
s  a  person  of  importatice.  Formerly,  he  was  regarded 
IS  a  god,  and  was  called  Osiris,  ApoUyon,  and  I  don't 
;now  what  else4  But  do  not  imagine  that  because  the 
un  is  so  important  he  is  of  greater  influence  than  M. 
Fean^Baptiste  Godefroy,  millionaire  banker,  director  of  the 
lomptoif  Qintral  de  Credit,  administrator  of  sever&l  big 
lompanies,  deputy  and  member  of  the  General  Counsel  of 
he  Eure,  offioerof  the  Legion  of  Honor,  etc.,  etc.  And 
irhatever  opinion  the  sun  may  have  about  himself,  he  cer- 
ainly  has  not  a  higher  opinion  than  M.  Jean-Baptiste 
xodefroy  has  ofAimself.  So  we  are  authorized  to  state, 
ind  we  consider  ourselves  justified  in  stating,  that  on  the 

Translated  by  J.  Matthewman.  Copyright,  1894,  by  The 
IJnrrent  liitei'atare  Publishing  OoiApany.  Beprinted  by  per- 
mission. 


/ 
316  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

morning  in  question,  at  about  a  quarter  to  eight,  the  sun 
and  M.  Jean-Baptiste  Godefroy  rose. 

Gertainl^the  mannerof  rising  of  these  two  great  powers 
mentioned  was  not  the  same.  The  good  old  sun  began  by 
doing  a  great  many  pretty  actions.  As  the  sleet  had,  dur- 
ing the  night,  covered  the  bare  branches  of  the  trees  in  the 
boulevard  MalesherbeSj^  wbpr^  the  hotel  Godefroy  is  situated, 
with  a  powdered  coating,  the  great  magician  sun  amused 
himself  by  twinsforming  the  branches  into  great  bouquets 
of  red  coral.  At  the  same  time  he  scattered  his  rays 
impartially  on  those  pooa*  passers-by  whom  necessity  sent 
out,  so  early  in  the  morning,  to  gain  their  daily  bread. 
He  even  had  a  smile  for  the  poor  clerk,  who,  in  a  thin 
overcoat,  was  hurrying  to  his  office,  as  well  as  for  the 
grisette,  shivering  under  her  thin,  insutlicient  clothing ;  for 
the  workman  carrying  half  a  loaf  under  his  arm,  for  the 
ear-conductor  as  he  punched  the  tickets,  and  for  the  dealer 
in  roast  chestnuts,  who  was  roasting  his  first  panful.  In 
short,  the  sun  gave  pleasure  to'  everybody  in  the  world. 
M.  Jean-Baptiste  Godefroy,  on  the  contrary,  rose  in  quite 
a  diflFerent  franie  of  mind.  On  the  previous  evening  he 
had  dined  with  the  Minister  for  Agrictilture.  The  dinner. 
from  the  removal  of  the  fotage  to  the  salad,  bristled  with 
trufBes,  and  the  banker's  stomach,  aged  forty-seven  years, 
experienced  the.bumiag  and  biting  of  pyrosis.  So  the 
manner  in  which  M. ,  Jeau'-Baptiste  Godefroy  rang  for  his 
valet-deK^hambre  was  so  expressive  that,  as  he  got  some 
warm  water  for  his  master's  shaving,  Charles  said  to  the 
kitchen-maid: 

"There  he  goes !  The  monkey  is  barbarously  ill-tempered 
again  this  morning.  My.  poor  Gertrude,  we're  going  to 
have  a  miserable  day." 


THB  BNTEKTAINING  GBOUB  817 

WhereiiiKm,  tralking  on  tiptoe,  with  eyes  modestly  cast 
down,  he  entered  the  chamber  of  his  madt^j  opened  the 
curtaiiw,  lit  the.  firej  an<J  made  «11  the  necessary  prepftra- 
dons  for  the  toilet  ^th  the  discreet  demeanor  and  resJpect- 
f ul  gestures  of  la  sacristan  ]^lacing  the  saeifed  yessels  on  the 
altar. for  the; priest 

'What  sort  of  weather  this  morning?''  demanded  M. 
Godefroy  euttly,  as  hebuttoaed.his  unldervest  of  gray 
swansdowA  Upon/a  stomach  th^t  Was  ali^eady  a  little  too 
prominent. 

"V^ry  cold,  sk,''  replied  Charles  meekly-  ^^ At  six  o'clock 
the  thermometer  marked  seven  degreelS  above  zero.  But, 
as  you  will  see,  sir,  the  sky  is  quite  clear,  and  I  think  we 
are  going  to  have,  a  fine  morning/' 

In  stroppiiig  his  ra^or,  M.  Godef  roy,  appr^ched  the  win- 
dow, drew  aside  one  of  the  hangings,  looked  on  the  boule- 
vard, whieh  was  bathed  in  brigbtU^ss,  and  made  a  elight 
grimace  which  bore  some  resemblance  to  a  smile. 

It  is  all  very  well  to  be  .perfectly  stiff  and  correct,  and 
to  know  that  it  is  bad: taste  to  show  feeling  of  any  kind 
in  the  presence  of  domestics,  but  the  appearance  of  the 
roguish  sun  in  the  middle  of  December  sends  such  a  glow 
of  warmth  to  the  heart  that  it  is  impossible  to  disguise  the 
fact.  So  M.  Godef  roy  deigtied,  as  before  observed,  tos^ile. 
If  some  one  had  whimpered  to. the  opulent  banker  that  his 
smile  had  anything  in  common  with  that  of  the  printer's 
boy,  who  was  ienjoying' himfeelf  bymakifig  a  slide  w  the 
pavato€9Qt,  IL  Godef  roy  would  have  been  highjy  incensed. 
But  it  really  was  so  ail  the  s^me;  and  during  the  space  of 
one  minute  this  man,  who  was  so  occupied  by  business  mat- 
ters, this  leading  light  in  the  financial  and  political  wprlds, 
indulged  in  the  childish  pastime  of  watching  the  passers- 


318  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NABSATIVES 

by,  and  following  with  his  eyes  the  files  of  conyeyanceB  as 
they  gaily  rolled  in  the  sunshina 

But  pray  do  not  be  alarmed-  Smh  a  weakness  could  not 
last  long.  People  of  ho  account,  and  those  who  have  noth- 
mg  to  do,  may  be  able  to  let  their  time  slip  by  in  doing 
nothing.  It  is  very  well  for  women,  children^  poets,  and 
riffraff.  M.  Godefroy  had  other  fiA  to  fry;  and  the  work 
of  tiie  day  which  was  cdmiaencing  promised  to  be  excep- 
tionally heavy.  From  half'p^st  eight -to.  ten  o'clock  he  had 
a  meeting  at  his  office  with  a  certain  number  of  gentlemen, 
all  of  whom  bore  a  striking  resemblance  to  M.  Godefroy. 
Like  him,  they  were  very  nervous ;  they  had  risen  with  the 
sun,  they  were  all  biases,  and  they  all  had  the  same  object 
in  view — to  gain  money.  After  breakfast  (which  he  took 
after  the  meeting),,  M.  Godefroy  had  to  leap  into  his 
carriage  and  rush  to  the  Bourse,  to  exchange  a  few  words 
with  other  gentlemen  who  had'  also  risen- at  dawn,  but  who 
had  not  the  least  spark  of  imagination  among  them.  (The 
conversations  were  always  on  the  same  subject— .money.) 
From  there,  without  losing  an  instant,  M.  Godefroy  went 
to  preside  over  another  meeting  of  acquaintances  entirely 
void  of  compassion  and  tenderness.  The  meeting  was  held 
round  a  baize-covered  table,  which  was  strewn  with  heap? 
of  papers  and  well  provided  with  ink-wdls.  The  conversa- 
tion again  turned*  on  money,  and  various  ihetiiods  of  gain- 
mg  it. 

After  the*  atforeeaid  meeting  he,  in  his  capacity  of 
deputy,  had  to  appear  before  severjil  commissions  {alwa}R 
held  in  rooni6'  Where  there  were  bai^e-covered  tables  ainl 
ink-wells  and  heaps  of  papers).  There  he  found  men  as 
devoid  of  sentiment  as  he  was,  all  utterly  incapable  of 
««^ior(3ting  any  occasion  of  gaining  money,  but  who,  never- 


THE  ENTERTAINING  GROUP  819 

thelesB,  had  the  extreme  goodness  to  sacrifice  several  hours 
of  the  afternoon  to.  the  glory  of  Prance. 

After  haying  quickly  shaved  he  donned  a  morning  suit, 
the  elegant  cut  and  finish  of  which  showed  that  the  old 
beau  of  nearly  fifty  had  not  ceased  trying  to  please.  When 
he  shaved  he  spared  the  narrow  strip  of  pepper-and-salt 
beard  round  his  chin,  as  it  gave  him  the  air  of  a  trust- 
worthy family  man  in  the  eyes  of  the  Arrogants  and  of 
fools  in  general.  Then  he  descended  to  his  cabinet,  where 
he  received  the  file  of  men  who  were  entirely  occupied  by 
one  thought — that  of  augmenting  their  capital.  These 
gentlemen  discussed  several  projected  enterprises,  all  of 
them  of  considerable  importance,  notably  that  of  a  new 
railroad  to  be  laid  across  a  wild  desert.  Another  scheme 
was  for  the  founding  of  monster  works  in  the  environs  of 
Paris,  another  of  a  mine  to  be  worked  in  one  of  the  South 
American  republics;  It  goes  without  saying  that  no  one 
asked. if  the  railway  would  have  passengers  or  goods  to 
carry,  or  if  the  proposed  works  should  manufacture  cotton 
nightcaps  or  distil  whisky;  whether  the  mine  was  to  be  of 
virgin  gold  or  of  second-rate  copper:  certainly  not.  The 
conversation  of  M.  Godef roy's  morning  callers  turned  ex- 
clusively upon  the  profits  which  it  would  be  possible  to 
realize  during  the  week  which  should  follow  the  issue  of 
the  shares.  They  discussed  particularly  the  values  of  the 
shares,  which  they  knew  would  be  destined  before  long  to 
be  worth  less  than  the  paper  on  which  they  were  printed 
in  fine  style. 

These  conversationB,  briiStling  with  figures,  lasted  till 
ten  o'clock  precisely,  and. then  the  director  of  the  Comptoir 
General  de  CrSdit,  who,  by  the  way,  was  an  honest  man — 
Qt  least,  as  honest  as  is  to  be  found  in  business — courteous- 


930  TYPES  OF  PBO&E  NABBATIVE8 

ly  conducted  his  last  visitor  to  the  head  of  the  fitairway. 
The  visitor  named  was  an  old  villain,  as  rich  as  CrcESus, 
who,  by  a  not  uncommon  chance,  enjoyed  the  general  esteem 
of  the  public;  whereas,  had  justice  been  done  to  him,  he 
would  have  been  lodging  at  the  expense  of  the  State  in 
one  of  those  large  establishments  provided  by  a  thoughtful 
government  for  smaller  delinquents;  and  there  he  would 
have  pursued  a  useful  and  healthy  calling  for  a  lengthy 
period,  the  exact  length  having  been  fixed  by  the  judges  of 
the  supreme  court.  But  M.  Qodefroy  showed  him  out 
relentlessly,  notwithstanding  his  importance — ^it  was  abso- 
lutely necessary  to  be  at  the  Bourse  at  11  o'clock — ^and  weiit 
into  the  dining-room. 

It  was  a  luxuriously  furnished  room.  The  furniture  and 
plate  would  have  served  to  endow  a  cathedral.  JTeverthe- 
less,  notwithstanding  that  M.  Qodefroy  took  a  gulp  of 
bicarbonate  of  soda,  his  indigestion  refused  to  subside,  con- 
sequently the  banker  could  only  take  the  seantiest  break- 
fast— ^that  of  a  dyspeptic.  In  the  midst  of  such  luxury, 
and  under  the  eye  of  a  well-paid  butler,  M.  Godefroy  could 
only  eat  a  couple  of  boiled  eggs  and  nibble  a  little  mutton 
chop.  The  man  of  money  trifled  with  dessert— took  only 
a  crumb  of  Boquefort— not  more  than  two  cents*  worth. 
Then  the  door  opened  and  an  overdressed  but  charming 
little  child — ^young  Baoul,  four  years  old— the  son  of  the 
company  director,  entered  the  room,  accompanied  by  hi? 
German  nursery  governess. 

This  event  occurred  every  day  at  the  same  hour — a 
quarter  to  eleven,  precisely.  While  thecirrlage  which  was 
to  take  the  banker  to  the  Bourse  Was  awaiting  the  gentleman 
who  had  only  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  give  to  paternal 
sentiment/   It  was  not  that  ho  did  not  love  his  son.    He  did 


THE  BNTEETAININO  OltOUP  821 

Jove  him — ^nay,  be  adored  him,  in  hie  own  partwular  way. 
But  tbe&^  you  kiiow,  business  is  business. 

At  the  age  of.forty*two,  when  already  worldly-wise  and 
hla^,  he  had  fancied  himself  in  love  with  the  daughter  of 
one  of  his  club  friends— Marquis  de  Neufontaine,  an  old 
j'ascal — a  nobleman,  but  one  whose  card-playing  was  more 
than  open  to  suspicion,  and  who  would  have  been  expelled 
from  the  club  more  than  once  but  for  the  influenee  of  M. 
Qodefroy.  The  nobleman  was  only  too  happy  to  become 
the  father-inJaw  of  a  man  who  would  pay  his  debts,  and 
without  any  scruples  he  banded  over  his  daughter — a  simple 
and  ingtenuous  child  of  seventeen,"  who  was  taken  from  a 
convent  to  be  married— to  the  worldly  banker.  The  girl 
was  certainly  sweet  and  pretty,  but  she  had  no  dowry  except 
numerous  aristocratic  prejudices  and  romantic  illusions, 
and  her  father  thought  he  was  fortunate  in  getting  rid  of 
her  on  such  favorable  terms.  M.  Qodefroy,  who  was  the 
son  of  an  avowed  old  miser  of  Andelys,  had  always  re- 
mained a  man  of  the  people,  and  intensely  vulgar.  In  spite 
of  bifl  improved  circumstances,  he  had  not  improved.  His 
entire  lack  of  tact  and  refineipent  was  painful  to  his  young 
wile,  whose  tendereet  feelings  he  ruthlessly  and  thought- 
lessly trampled  upon.  Things  were  looking  unpromising, 
when,  happily  for  her,  ifadame  Godefroy  died  in  giving 
birth  to  her  firstho(rn.  When  he  spoke  of  his  deceised  wife, 
the  banker  waxed  poetical,  although  had  she  lived  they 
-wotild  have  been  divorced  in  six  months.  His  son  he  loved 
dearly  for  several  reasons^^-^first,  because  the  child  was  an 
only  son;  secondly,  because  he  was  a  scion  of  two  such 
Ixouses  as  Qodefroy  and  Neufontaine;  finally,  beeause  the 
xnan  of  money  had  naturally  great  respect  for  the  heir  to 
many  millions.    Bo  the  youngstter  had  golden  rattles  and 


TYPES  OF  PB08E  J^ARKATIVES 

other  similar  toys^  and  was  brought  up  like  a  young 
Dauphin.  But  his  father,  overwhelmed  with  busineBS  wor- 
ries, could  never  give  the  child  more  than  fifteen  minutes 
per  day  of  his  precious  time — and,  as  on  the  day  mentioned, 
it  was  always  during  "cheese'^ — ^and  for  the  rest  of  the  day 
the  father  abandoned  the  child  to  the  care  of  the  servants. 

"Good  morning,  Raoul/' 

.  "Good  morning,  papa/^ 

And  the  company  director,  having  put  his  serviette 
away,  sat  young  Eaoul  on  his  left  knee,  took  the  child's 
bead  between  his  big  paws,  and  in  stroking  and  kissing  it 
actually  forgot  all  his  money  matters  and  even  his  note 
of  the  afternoon,  which  was  of  great  importance  to  him, 
as  by  it  he  could  gain  quite  an  important  amount  of 
patronage. 

"Papa,''  said  little  Baoul  suddenly,  "will  Father  Christ- 
mas put  anything  in  my  shoe  to^nighf?'^    < 

The  father  answered  ^^ith  "Yes,  if  you  are  a  good  child." 
Thift  was  very  striking  from  a  man  who  was  a  pronounced 
freethinker,  who  always  applauded  every  anti«K;lerical  attack- 
in  the  Chamber  with  a  vigorous  "Hear,  hear.''  He  made 
a  mental  note  that  he  must  buy  some  toys  for  his  child  that 
very  afternoon. 

Then  he  turned  to  the  nursery  governess  with : 

"Are  you  quite  satisfied  with  Saoul,  Mademoiselle 
Bertha?" 

Mademoiselle  Bertha  became  as  red  as  a  peony  at  being 
addressed,  as  if  the  question  were  scarcely  comme  iT  faut, 
and  replied  by  a  little  imbecile  snigger,  which  seemed 
fully  to  satisfy  M,  Godefroy's  curiosity  about  his  son's 
Qonduct* 

"It's  fifte  to-day,"  said  the  financier,  ^T)ut  odd.     If  you 


THE  ENTEBTAINING  GBOXJP  323 

ake  Eaoul  to  Monceau  Park,  mademoiselle,  please  be  care- 
■  ul  to  wrap  him  up  well/' 

]Mademois&lle,  by  a  second  fit  of  idiotic  smiling,  having 
iet  at  rest  M.  Qodefro/s  doubts  and  fears  on  that  essential 
3oint,  he  kissed  hie  child,  left  the  room  hastily,  and  in  the 
:iall  was  enveloped  iii  his  fur  coat  by  Charles,  who  also 
closed  the  carriage  door.  Then  the  faithful  fellow  went 
yS  to  the  caf6  which  he  frequentel,  Rue  de  Miromesnil, 
where  he  had  promised  to  meet  the  coachman  of  the  baron- 
ess who  lived  opposite,  to  play  a  game  of  billiards,  thirty 
tip — and  ^ot-barried,  of  course. 

Thanks  to  the  brown  bay— for  which  a  tliousand  francs 
over  and  above  its  value  was  paid  by  M.  Qodefroy  as  a  re- 
sult of  a  sumptuous  snail  supper  given  to  that  gentleman's 
coachman  by  thie  horse^dealer-r— thanks  to  the  expensive 
brown  bay  which  certainly  went  well,  the  financier  was 
able  to  get  through  his  many  engagements  satisfactorily. 
He  appeared  punctually  at  the  Bourse,  sat  at  several  com- 
xnittee  tables,  and  at  a  quarter  to  five,  by  votmg  with  the 
ministry,  he  helped  to  reassure  France  and  Europe  that  the 
Tumors  of  a  ministerial  crisis  had  been  totally  unfounded. 
He  voted  with  the  ministry  because  he  had  succeeded  in 
obtaining  the  favors  which  he  demanded  as  the  price  of 
liis  vote. 

Af tet  he  had  thus  nobly  fulfilled  his  duty  t6  himself  and 
Ills  country,  M.  Qodefroy  remembered  what  he  had  said  to 
Ills  child  on  the  subject  of  Father  Christmas^  and  gave  hia 
coachman  the  address  of  a  dealer  in  toys.  There  he  bought^ 
and  had  put  in  his  carriage,  a  fantastic  rocking-horse, 
mounted  on  castors— a  Whip  in  each  ear;  a  box  of  leaden 
soldiers — all  as  exactly  alike  as  those  grenadiers  of  the 
IRussian  regiment  of  the  time  of  Paul  I,  who  ail  had  black 


324  TYPES  or  PROSE  NABEATTVES 

hair  and  snub  noses ;  and  a  score  of  other  tojs,  iall  equallT 
striking  and  costly.  Then,  as  he  returned  home,  softly 
reposing  in  his  well-swnng  carriage,  the  rich  banker,  who, 
after  all,  was  a  father,  began  to  think  with  pride  of  his 
little  boy  and  to  form  plans  for  his  fiitnre. 

When  the  child  grew  up  he  should  have  an  education 
worthy  of  a  prince,  and  he  would  be  one,  too,  for  there 
was  no  longer  any  aristocracy  except  that  of  money,  and 
his  boy  would  have  a  capital  of  about  30,000,000  francs. 

If  his  father,  a  pettifogging  provincial  lawyer,  who  had 
formerly  dined  in  the  Latin  Quarter  when  in  Paris,  who 
had  remarked  every  evening  when  putting  on  a  white  tie 
that  he  looked  as  fine  as  if  he  were  going  to  a  wedding— 
if  he  had  been  able  to  accumulate  an  enormous  fortune, 
and  to  become  thereby  a  power  in  the  republic;  if  he  had 
been  able  to  obtain  in  marriage  a  young  lady,  one  ^f  whose 
ancestors  had  fallen  at  Marignan,  what  an  important  per- 
sonage little  Baoul  might  become.  M.  Godefroy  built  all 
sorts  of  air-castles  for  his  boy,  forgetting  that  Christmas 
is  the  birthday  of  a  very  poor  little  child,  son  of  a  couple 
of  vagrants,  bom  in  a  stable,  where  the  parents  only  found 
lodging  through  charity. 

In  the  midst  of  the  banker's  dreams  the  coachman  cried: 
"Door,  please,"  and  drove  into  the  yard.  As  he  went  up 
the  steps  M.  Gk)defroy  was  thinking  that  he  had  barely  time 
to  dress  for  dinner ;  but  on  entering  the  vestibule  he  found 
all  the  domestics  crowded  in  front  of  him  in  a  state  of 
alarm  and  confusion.  In  a  comer,  crouching  on  a  seat, 
was  the  German  nursery-govemess,  crying.  When  she  saw 
the  banker  she  buried  her  face  in  her  hands  and  wept  still 
more  copiously  than  before.  M.  Godefroy  felt  that  some 
misfortune  had  happened. 


T®E|  BN'33E|tTAINIKGi  ©BOUP  Jgg 

"What's  the  meaning  of  all  this?    What'e  amiss ?    WJiat 

Chaitles,  the  mtlet  de  chambre,  a  so^abing  rascal  of  the 
worst  type,  looked  at  his  mastet  with  eyes  full  of  pity  and 
stammered::   ,*^Mr-.  Haoul-— ^". 
"My.b6y?*'         .'■..•. 

"lost,  air.  .  The  stupid  German  did .  it.  Since,  four 
o^okck  tfaisiafternooi},  he  has  not  been  s^en.^' 

The  father  staggered  back  like  one  who  had  been  hit  by 
a  ball  The  German  thr^ew  hes^self  at  his  feet,s0i!'eaaning: 
^^Mercry^. mercy F  and  the  domestics  ail  spoke  at  the  same 
time...  ,  .  ••• 

^^Bertha  didift  go  io  pare  Monceau.  She  lost  the  child 
over  there  on  ihie  fortifieations.  We  have  sought  him  all 
over,:sii*.  vWe.  wenfc  to  the-  office  for  yon,  sir,  and  then 
to  the- Ghamb«r>  b«t  yoii  had  just  left.  Jiafllt  imagine,  the 
German  had  a  rendezvous  with  her  lover  every,  day^  beyond 
the  FampartB,  near  iihe  g»le  tif  Aaniei^^s.  What  a  sbtime ! 
It  is  a  placfe  full  of  low  gipsies  and  strolling  playera.  Fcaf'^ 
haps  "the  child  has  hem  stolen.  Yes,  sir,  we  inf  oarlned  Ibft 
poliee  at  ono&  How  oould  we  imagine  such  a-  tbu^gp !  'A. 
hypoeirite,  that  German!  She  had  a  rendezvous,  dowMtes/ 
with  a  countrymaur^a  Prussiafa  spy,  sure  enough. I*' 

His  son '  lost  1  M.  Godefroy  seemed  to  have  a  torrent 
of  blood  raahiag  ;  through  his  head.  He  sprang  -^t 
Mademoiselle,  seized' her  hy  the  arms  and  diook  her  ftri- 
oiisly.  -    ■        ■   I      .■•■■■.:•.  . 

"Where  did  you  lose  him,  you  miserable  girl?  Tell  m^ 
the  truth  before  I  shake  J^au  jto.pieoea.  Do  you  he$.r?  Do 
yon  heirP^   ; 

But  the  unfortunate  girl  could  o^y  cry  and  bcjg  iox 
cnercy*  •.  • 


336  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NABBAflVES 

The  banker  tried  to  be  calm.  •  No.  it  was^  impossible. 
Nobody  would  dare  to  steal  his  boy.  Somebody  would  find 
him  and  bring  him  hack;  Of  that  there  could  be  no  doubt. 
He  conld  scatter  money  about  right  and  left,  and  could 
have  the  entire  police  force  at  his  orders.  And  he  would 
set  to  work  at  once,  for  not  an  instant  should  be  lost. 

"Charles,  don^t  let  the  horses  be  taken  ont.  You  others, 
see  that  this  girl  doesn^t  escape.  I'm  going  to  the  Pre- 
fecture.^' 

And  M.  Godefroy,  with  his  heart  thumping  against  his 
sides  as  if  it  would  break  them,  his  hair  wild  with  fright, 
darted  into  his  carriage,  which  at  once  rolled  oflE  as  fast  as 
the  horses  could  take  it.  What  irony  I  The  carriage  was 
full  of  glittering  playthings,  which  sparkled  every  time  a 
gaslight  shone  on  them.  For  the  next  day  was  the  birthday 
of  the  divine  Infant  at  whose:  cradle  wise  men  and  simple 
shepherds  alike  adored. 

."My  poor  little  Baoull  Poor  darling!  Where  is  my 
boy?'*  repeated  the  father  as  in  his  anguish  he  dug  his 
nails  into  the  cushions  of  the  carriage.  At  that  moment 
all  his  titles  and  decorations,  his  honors,  :his  millions,  were 
valueless  to  him.  He  had  one  single  idea  burning  in  his 
brain.    "My  poor  child!  .Where  is  my  child?'* 

At  last  he  reached  the  Prefecture  of  Police.  But  no  one 
was  there — ^the  office  had  been  deserted  for  some  time. 

"I  am  M.  Godefroy,  deputy  from  L^Eure-r—  My  little 
boy  is  lost  in  Paris ;  a  child  of  four  years.  I  must  see  the 
Prefect*'  .      . 

He  slipped  a  louis  into  the  hand  of  the  concierge. 

The  good  old  soul,  a  veteran  with  a  gray  mustache,  less 
for  the  sake  of  the, money  than  out  of  compassion  for  the 
poor  father,  led  him  to  the  Prefects  private  apartments. 


THE  ENTERTAININa  GROUP^  3^ 

M.  Godefroy  waB'fiiially  tishered  into  the  tobm  of  the  man 
in  whom  were  centred  all  his  hopes.  He  was  in  evening 
dress,  and  wore  a  monocle;  his  manner  was  frigid  an(l 
rather  pretentions.  The  distressed  father,  whose  knees 
trembled  through  emotion,  sank  into  an  armchaiT,  andi 
bursting  into  tears,  told  of  the  loss  of  his  boy — told  the 
story  stammeringly  and  witti  many  breaks,  for  his  voice 
was  choked  by  sobs.    ■ 

The  Prefect,  who  was  also  father  of  a  family,  was  in»- 
wardly  .Mioyed'  at  the  sight  of  his  visitor**  grief,  but  he 
repressed  his- emotion  and  assumed  a  cold  and  self-im- 
portant air.  • 

^^iTou  say,  sir,  that  your  child  has  been-  missing  siaaeei 
four  o^clock.'?  ■•  :     . 

.    «YeB.'^  ..•■.'•...•-..'  .    .: 

"Just  when  night  was  falling,  confound  it.  He  isn^t 
at  all* precocious,  speaks  very  little,  doesn't  know  where  h^ 
lives,  and  oan*t  even  pronoun.ce  his  own  nameP* 

"Unfortunately  that  is  so:  ■''  - 

"Not  far  from  Asnidres  gate  ?  A  sufipelcted  quarter.  >  But 
cheer  up.  We  have  a  very  intelligent  Commissaire  de  PoliM 
there,    ni  telephone  to  him.*' 

The  distressed  father  was  left  alone  for  five  minutes. 
How  his  temples  throbbed  and  his  heart  beat  I 

Then,  suddenly,  the  Prefect  reappeared,  smiling  with 
satisfaction.    "Pound  P* 

Whereupon  M,  Godefroy  rushed  to  the  Prefect,  whose 
hand  he  pressed  till  that  functionary  winded  with  the  pain. 

^^I  must  acknowledge  that  we  were  exceedingly  fortunate. 
The  little  chap  is  blond,  isn*t  he?  Eather  pale?  :In  blue 
velvet?    Blaek  felt  hat>  with  a  white  feather  in  it P*     T 


328  TYPES  OP  PKOBE  NAERATIVBS 

"Yes,  yes;  thaf s  he.    That's  my  little  Kaoul/' 

^^Well,  he's  at  the  house  of  a  poor  lellow  down  in  that 
quarter  who  had  just  been  at  the  poliee  office  to  make  his 
declaration  to  the  Comknissaire.  Here's  hia  address,  which 
I  took  down:  'Pierren,  rtte'des  CailUmx,  LevaUtns-Perrei! 
With  good  holrses  you  naaiy  reach  yotir  boy  in  less  than  an 
hour.  Certainly,  you  won't  find  him  in  an  aristocratic 
quarter;  his  surroundings  won't  be  of  the  highest.  The 
man  who  found  him  is  ronly  a  email  dealer  in  vegetables.*' 

But  that  waif  of  no  importance  to  Jkf.  Godefroy,  who, 
having  exlpiress^  his  gsatitude  to  the  Fref  oet,  leaped  down 
the  stairs  four  at  a  time,  and  sprang  into  his  carriage.  At 
that  mom^it  he  realiaed  how  devotedly  he  loved  hia  child- 
As  he  drove  away  he  no  longer  thought  of  little  Baoul's 
princely  education  and  magnificent  inheritance.  He  was 
decided  tievei*  again  to  h^tikct  over  the  child  entirely  to  the 
hands  of  servaaits^aiid be  alttomadenp  hia mind  to  devote 
less  time  to  monetary  matters  and  the  ^ory  ^►f  France  and 
attend  more  to  his  own.  Thei  thought;  also  loecurred  to  him 
that  France  wouldn't  be' likely -to  suffierfrom  the  neglect. 
He  h^d  hitherto  heen  asbaldied  to  recognize  the  0:9istence 
of  an  old-maid  sister  of  his  fathear,  but  he  defeid^d-to  send 
for  her  to  his  house.  She  would  certainly  shocl^  hi^  lackeys 
by  her  primitive ImaxmerS' and  ideas.  '  But  what  of  that? 
She  would  take,  caife^f  his  Jboy,  which  to  him  was  of  much 
moie  inaportance' than:, the 'gdod'iopitrion  of  hia  servants. 
The  financier,  who  was  always  in  t^hmtj,  ne^?er  felt  so 
eager  to  arritr^  p^otuaUy.  at  a  committee  meeting  as  he 
was  to  reach  the  lost/ littie.  one,  .Bor  the  first  time  in  his 
lifehe  was  longaing  through  pure alfieejtlQn  tOitake  t^ie  child 
in'Maarmfe. '  :  ,  •'    •.'  ■•     ■; 

The  caTriajgexMled  tfcipStily. aloog iii..th«.degi:,.l3Tisp  ni^t 


" .  THE  BlffTBRTAININa.  GBOUP  k  829 

air  down'  benkvard  Malesberbei^;  and^.  having  crossed  the 
ramparts  asid  passed  the  ilaigehbiufids,  plunged  dirto  i&e 
quiet  solitude  of  suburbfta  streets^  When*  the.carrife^  stop- 
ped M*  Godef  toy  saw  a  Wretched  hovel,  on  whkh  Was  the 
amniber.heiiwiaB  seeking;  it  was  the'  hdn^. where  Pierrott 
lived.  The  do6r  of  ithe.lwuBe. opened  imiBediatdy,  and  a 
big,  'roughJooking  fallow:  Wiith  red  ibnstache"  appeaitedl 
One  of  his  slteves  was  icmpty,  Scding  th^  gentleman.  In,  thfe 
carnfiage,  Pierrdn  said'.<jheeirily ;  ? •  "Sb you'aBe:  the  little  one-s 
father.  Don^t  be' afraid^  .The  little  dariing;  is  qnite,  safe,^ 
and,  stepping  aside  ia  orcfet  to  allow -M.  tlodefroy  to  pass, 
he  placed  his  &iger  on  his  lips  With:  ' -Hnriil  -The  little 
one  is  asleep  H:  --:    •        .i         ! 

Ycs^  it  was  ai  red' hot^l.  <  By  the  dim  light  olE  a  little  oS 
lamp  M.  Godefroy  conld  just- distinguish; a  duessei?  from 
which  adraweti  was  mis^ing^  eobxie  broken  dbairs,  ai  roMd 
table  o»'Wliich.-:*taoa  a  beerwiniig  which  waJ3  half  .empty, 
three  glasses^  some  ^^oldmeiit  cm  ^  plate,  and  on  the  baire 
plaster  of  the  Wall  two  gaudy  pictures— a  bitdi's-eye  vieiir 
of;  the  ExposWdniof  1889,  with  the  Eiffel  Tower  in  bright 
blue,  Hod  the  portrait  of  General  Bowlanger  when  a  hand- 
some yotmg  lieuteniant.  •  This  last  evidence  of  uttabkeiss  oif 
the  tenant  (bf  thehoirae  may  well  be  excused,  rinieeiit  wae 
shared  by  iiearly  evcjrybody  ia  ffraiMja  The  inan  todk  the 
lamp  and^w«bt:on  tiptaetb  thr  corner  of  the-  robitx  where, 
on  a  clean  bed,  two  little  fellows  were  fast  asleep.  In  the 
little  one'^'diiound  whom  the  other,  hai  thrown  «t  p^rotecting 
anh.  Mi  GMefroy  recognidedhis  son.  ' 

"The  youngsters  were  tired  to  death,  i  and  so  sleepy,'* 
said  Pierr6B,  tryiitg  to  sbftenhis  rough  voioe.  '*I  had  no 
idearwhenyoifwotild  cotne,  so  gave  them  some  supper  and 
put-thlem  to  bed',  ahd  then  I  went,  to  make  a  deqlaration 


330  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NABEATIVES 

at  the  police  office.  Zidore  generally  sleeps  up  in  the 
garret,  but  I  thought  they  would  he  better  h€re,  and  that 
T  should  be  better  able  to  watch  them/' 

M.  Godefroy,  however,  scarcely  heard  the  explanation. 
Strangely  moved,  he  looked  at  the  two  sleeping  infants  on 
an  iron  bedstead  and  covered  with  an  old  blanket  which 
had  once  been  used  either  in  barracks  or  hospital.  Little 
Raoul,  who  was  still  in  his  velvet  suit,  looked  so  frail  and 
delicate  compared  with'  his  companion  that  the  banker 
almost  enyied  the  latter  his  brown  complexion. 

**Is  he  your  boy.^"  he  asked  Pierron. 

*^No,**:ahsweiied  he.  "I  am  a  bachelor,  and  don^t  suppose 
I  shall  ever  marry,  because  of  my  accident.  You  see,  a 
dray  passed  over  my  arm— that  was  all.  Two  years  ago  a 
neighbor  of  mine  died,  when  that  child  was  only  five  years 
old.  The  poor  mother  really  died  of  starvation.  She  wove 
wreaths  toi  the  cemeteries,  but  could  make  nothing  worth 
mentioning  at  that  trade---not  enough  to  live.  However, 
she  worked  for  the  child  for  five  years,  and  then  the  neigh- 
bors had  to  buy  wreaths  for  her.  So  I  took  care  of  the 
youngster.  Oh,  it  was  nothing  much,  and  I  waa  soon 
repaid.  He  is  seven  years  old,  and  is  a  sharp  little  fellow, 
«o  he  helps  nie  a  great  deal.  On  Sundays  and  Thursdays, 
and  the  other  days  after  school,  he  helps  me  push  my  hand- 
dart.  •  Zidore  is  a  smart  little  chap.  It  was  he  who  found 
your  boy.'' 

'*What !"  exclaimed  M.  Godefroy-^nhat  child  !'^     . 

"Oh,  he's  quite  a  little  mauj  I  assure  you.  When  he  left 
school  he  found  your  child,  who  was  walking  on  ahead, 
trying  like  a  foimtain.  He  spoke  to  him  and  comforted 
him,  like  an  old  grandfather.  The  difficulty  is,  that  one 
^n't  easily  understand  what  your  little  one  says— English 


THU  BNTBETAININa  GROUP  331 

words  are  mixed  up  with  Qerman  and  Erench.  So  we 
couldn^t  get  much  out  of  him,  nor  could  we  learn  his  ad- 
dress. Zidore  brought  him  to  me — I  waan^t  far  away;  and 
then  fill  the  old  women  in  the  place  came  round  chattering 
and  croakii^  like  sq  many  frogs,  and  all  fidl  of  advice. 

^^  Take  him  to  the  police/  "  said.  some. 

But  Zidore  protested. 

^TJjat' would  scare  him/'  said  hd,  for  like  all  Parisians, 
he  has  jio  particular  liking  for  the  police — ^^and  besides, 
your  little  one  didn't  wish  to  leave  him.  So  I  came  back 
here  with  thedjild.as  soon  as  I  could.  They  had  supper, 
and  then  off  to  bed.    Don't  they  look  sweet?'' 

When  he  Wja^  in  ^is  :carriage,  M.  Godefroy  had  decided 
to  reward  the  finder  of  his  child  handsomely — to  give  him 
a  hundful  ,of  that. gold  s<x  easily  gaiiled.  Since  entering 
the  house  he  had  seen  a  side  of  human,  nature  with  which 
he  was  fon^ierly  unacquainted— the  brave  charity  of  the 
poot  in,  their  misery.  The  courage  of  the  poor  girl  who  had 
worked) herself  tp  death  weaving  ^vi^aths  to  keep  her  child; 
the  generosity  of  the  poor  cripple  in  adopting  the  orphan, 
and.  aboye  all,  the  i^teUige^nt  goodness  of  the  little  street 
Arab  in  protecting  the  child  who  was  still  smaller  than 
himsjsjlf — ^ail  this  touched  M.  Godefroy  deeply  and  set  him 
reflecting.  For  the  thought  had  occurred  to  him  that  there 
were  other  cripples  who  needed  to  be  looked  after  as  well 
as  Pierxon,,  and  other  oujphans  a£^  weU  as  Zidore.;  He  also 
de^ajb^  whether  it:  would,  not  be  better  to  employ  his  time 
looking  after  them,  and  whether  money  might  not  be  put 
to  a  better  use  than  -merely  gaining  money.  Such 
was  his  reverie  as  he  stood  looking  at  the  two  sleeping 
children.  ... 

Finally,  he  turned  roipid  to  study  the  f eatores  of  the 


332  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRAI'IVES 

greengrocer,  and  wa«  cbaTmed  by  the  loyal  expression  in 
the  face  of  the  man,  and  his  clear,  truthful  eyes. 

^'My  friend,"  said  M.  Godefroy,  "y6«  and  your'  adopted 
Bon  have  rendered  me  an  immense  service.  I  shall  soon 
prove  to  you  that  1  am  not  ungrateful.  But,  for  to^ay — 
I  see  that  you  are  not  in  comfortable  circumstances,  arid  I 
should  like  to  leave  a  small  proof  of  Iny  thankfulnefcs/* 
,  But  the  hand  of  the  cripple  arrested  that  of  the 
banker,  which  was  dicing  into  his  eoat-poeket  where  he 
kept  bank-lnotes. 

.  **No,  sir;  no!  Anybody  else  would  have  done  just  as 
we  have  done.  I  will  not  accept  any  recompense ;  but 
t>ray  doti't  take  offense.  Gfertainly,  I  am  not  rolling  in 
wealth,  but  please  excuse  my  prlde-^that  of  an  old  sol- 
dier; I  have  the  Tonquifii  medal— nand  I  don't  wish  to 
eat  food  which  I  haven't  earned.'' 

^^As  yoii  like,"  said  the  finandefr ;  '*but  an  6M  soldier  like 
JS^oii  is  caipable  of  something  better.  You  lat«  too  good  to 
plish  a  handcart.  I  will  make  some  arrangement  for  you, 
never  fear."  * 

The  cripple  responded  by  a  quiet  ^mile,  fend  said  coldly: 
^^Well,  sir,  if  you  really  Wish  to  do  something  fo*  me-^*' 

"You'll  let  me  care  for  Eidore,  won*t  youP^  cried  M. 
iJodefroy,  eagerly.      ■ 

"That  I  will,  with  the  greatest  of  pleasure,''  responded 
Pierron,  joyfully,  "t  hare  often  thought  afboui^  the  child's 
future.  He  is  a  sharp  little  fellow.  His  teachers  Are  de- 
lighted with  him." 

•  Then  Pierron  suddenly  stopped,  alid  an  expressidn  fcame 
over  his  face  which  M:  Godcf roy  at  once  interpreted  as  one 
of  distrust.  The  thought  evidently  was:  "Oh,  "^hetl  he 
has  once  left  us  he'll  forget  us  ^tii^ely.'* 


^Toucan  safely  pick  tih0  child  up  m  yoilr  arms  and  take 
him  to  the  carFJage*  He^U  be  better  at  bonae  thaii  bece, 
of  course.  Oh,  you  nceda^t  be  afraid  of  disturbing  him. 
He  iaiast  asleep^  and  you  caa  juat  pick  him  up.  He  must 
halve  hdsfehoea  on  firfet,  though/^  .  .  .       i 

Following  Pierron's  glaixce  M.  Godefroy  perceived  on  the 
hearth,  where  a  scantycoto  ^re  was  dying  out,  tisjo  pairs 
of  childien^ft  shoea--the  elegant  ones  of  Baoul,  and  the 
rough  oi^B  of  Zidore.'  Each  pair  oontaioed  a  little  toy  and 
a  package  of  bonbons. 

"Don^t  think  about  that/*  said  Pierron  in  an  abashed 
tone.  "Zidore  put  the  shoes  there.  You  know  children 
still  believe  in  Chtf ittnas  •  and  the  xMiS  Jesus,  whatever 
sohelarsmaysaj^r  abouit.fahles^^iaa  I  came  back  :^m. the 
commMoii^,  $i9  I  didn't  kneiw  whether  youi?  boy  iWeOUW  hm^\ 
to  stay  heve  icHUghtj  I  got  il^oae/tbings  for  them  both/' 

At  which  the  eyea  of  Mi^  Godefsoy,  tte  ireethi^fccT,  tb^ 
hardened  capitaliat,  taA.blme,  mm  of  the  world,  filled  witl^ 
tears.   .■•-.•  •.''•-,., 

He  ^shed  out  of  the  house,  bnft  aretumed.iiSL  a  minute^ 
with  his  annsi  fall  o£  the  sup^b  meehanieal  horse^  tibe  box. 
o£  leaden-  aoMiers;  aid  the  rest^  of  the  costly  playthings, 
bought  by  him.  iaatthe  afternoon,  and  which  had  mwb  even 
been  taken  oiit  of  thjS  oarriagc.       ' 

"Myfriendy  mydciar  friend/^  aiadd  he- to*  the  green  grqiceir, 
^^see,' these  are  the  presents  wluch  C!hristmaP  has  brougbj^ 
to  my  little:Haoul.  I  want  Mm  tofiiidthem  betey  when, he: 
awahens,  and  to  ahaare  them  with. Zid4re,  who  will  he^q^-j 
forth  be .  his  pla3fmate:  and .  f rkad. ,  Y ouf U  trust:  me ,  now t 
wobH  joM'ii  Til  take  «are  both  of  ^idoresandoi  you^  and, 
then  I' shall; ever. remain. in  your  deibt>  .for  .nt)t  only  havie> 
you  found  miy  boy,  but  you  hav^  also  remiaatoi  ma,  whoi 


334  TYPES  OP  PB08E  NABBATIVBS 

am  rich  and  lived  only  for  myself,  that  there  are  other  poor 
who  need  to  be  looked  after.  I  swear  by  these  two  sleeping 
children,  I  won^t  forget  them  any  longer/' 

•Such  is  the  miracle  which  happened  on  the  24th  of 
December  of  last  year,  ladies  and  gentlemen,  at  Paris,  in 
the  full  flow  of  modern  egotism.  It  doesn't  sound  likely — 
that  I  own ;  and  I  aDci  compelled  to  attribute  this  miraculous 
event  to  the  influence  of  the  Divine  Child  who  came  down 
to  earth  nearly  nineteen  centurks  ago  to  command  men  to 
love  one  another. 

-^Fran^is  Coppfe. 

Tlie  Peace  of  Yestesdays  . 

It  Was  a  wet,  unpleasant  evening  in  February,  and 
little  Miss  Hicks,  hurr3dng  hoioseward  with  her  ehop  for 
to-morrow's  dinner,  felt  w«t  and  unpleasant,  too.  Her 
jacket  was  too  thin  for  such  w^ather^  and  her  worn  shoes, 
splashing  over  the  muddy  pavement,  made  her  dread 
the  twinges  of  rheumatism  which  would  surely  follow. 
She  paused  a  moment  for  breath  beneath  the  sheltering 
awning  of  a  booknstore,  and,  as  she  riiook  her  dripping 
skirts,  she  glanced  into  the  gaily  lighted  windows.  It 
happened  to  be  the  evening  before  Valentine's  day,  and 
the  windows  of  the  shop  were  filled  with  the  usual 
'* tokens  of  aflPection'*;  riotous  cupids  with  garlands  of 
roses  and  forget-me-not%  reposing  on  beds  of  celluloid; 
lovely  scrolls  in  delicate  pinks  and  blues  with  amorous, 
gilded  verses  inscribed  on  them ;  wonderful  creations  in 
silks  of  brilliant  hue,  at  which  all  the  small  girls  of  the 
neighborhood  gazed  covetously.  On  one  side  lay  a  heap 
of  comic  valentines  in  ugly,  staring  reds  and  yellows, 
but  Miss  Hicks  nevei*  noticed  them,  for  she  bad  eyes 


THE  ENTERTAINING  OBOUP  335 

only  fbi*  the  gorgeous  visioiis  on  the  other  side.  As  she- 
looked  at  them,  a  flood  of  suddai^y-treleased  memories 
came  into  her  head  which  made  her  chedcAfor  a  moment 
grow  youthfully  pink  and  her  faded  ey^s  glow  like  alara.. 

Th«  door  of  the  shop  clo»gd  With  a  final  bangy  and  the, 
lights'  went  out  stlddenly.  But  Miss  Hicks  only  smiled, 
happily  to  herself y  as  she  hurried  threu^  the  remain* 
ing  squares  to  her  own  dingy  Uttl^  house  in  dingy  little 
Lombard  street.  The  cKm  street  lamp  showed  a  sign, 
battered  and  discolored^  of  ^^Miss  M.  Hioks,  Fashionable 
Milliner,'*'  and  as  the  owner  of  the  «hop  openedthe  creafc 
ing  door,  stepped  inside,  and  lighted  a  lamp,  a.  feiw  old- 
fashioned  hats  and  bonnets  eotQd  be  faintly  discerhed  on; 
the  narrow  counter,  while/ in  the:  one  small,  showcase 
were  feundiy  faded  ribbcais  and  drocqpiing  bird&   • 

•*It^s  a  wonder  to  me,'*  her  nearest  neighbors  w6iild 
often  say,'*^*how  that  Miss  Hicks  manager  to  g^tialong;: 
kith  nor  kin  she  don't  seem  to  have  none,  and  the  cus- 
tomers she's  got  ain^t  enough  to  keep  body  and  son}  to- 
gether. But  I've  heard  as  how  she  gets  an  annuity  from 
some  dead  relatives  and  that  probably  helps  her  €>ut,  if 
she's  real  good  at  scrimping  and  saving/' 

But  in  Hpite  Of  the  Aolieltude  of  her  neighbors,  liey 
nevet  found  ont  any  certain  facts  about  the  litlile  woman 
in  rusty  bkck,  who  was  always  either  sitting  at  her  win- 
doliv,  slewing  on  the  hats  of  her  few  customers;  or  else 
taking  a  solitary  stroll  thorough  the  dingy,  narrow  streetdJ 
She  went  tealking  usually  when  the- daylight  was  nearly 
gone,  foil*  in  a  timid,  childish  way  she  shrank  from  ob* 
servation,  and  preJterred  to  (Jommmne  with  herself  rather 
than  join  her  neighbors  in  friendly  gossip. 

Generally  shig  liked  to  be  slow  about  preparing  and 


336  TYPES  OP.  PB0SB  .KABBATIVES 

eatmg^  her  mealsy^  for  in  thia  way  H^y  tpok  \ip  quite  a 
part  of  the  Umg,  loniely  day ;  but  to-iught  she  was  in 
such  a  hurry  ali6ut  her  iew*  pcepalDHtioua  aud  did  .every- 
thing wilih  such  ait  ail-  df  abatraotion  th^t  she. nearly  am- 
putated afingeir  while  cutting  brefid,  anc(  entirety  ;£orgot 
to  put'  anythmg  in  the  tejnpbt  except;  .hot  water.  "When 
at  last' the  didues. had  been  washed  wd  e9a^&iUy  put 
w*ray,  ^aeh.  in:  its-own  fKroi^er  plKee,  when  the  sleek  white 
cat  had  been  given  a:  generous  stoeer  of  inilk»  tlpexi  Miss 
Hicks,  with  an  air  bf  tremblrngaud b0sitaftiqg;eage]me88, 
plaeed  a  chair  against  the  •  Qld^£asbiOEned  cupbc^ard  in 
th4  liring^ropm,  iand  reaching  up,.!ta  the  paril  of. life  and 
limbj  drew  fort^  from  its  inmost  ireoeb^es  a  square,  paste- 
beard  box. ' '  She  csxefuUy  wip^d  off.  the.  dast  ^aa,  ita  sur- 
face— it  was  ptojiabjy.the.anjy  dttrtiyiajrticl^  rndb-gr.  whole 
d8lablishment^-*And,  .  carryiii^  ,thd  <  box  to  th^  .kitchen 
tabH  deposited  it  there  with;  a-lofVing  little  pat.     . 

•  But  now,,  when  her  intentions  seemed  pr$^tioaUy  ac- 
compliidi^dv: something'  held  her  haelsi  ;.it  s^iemed  aa  though 
invisible  fingers.. were  closing  ove)*  her  own  to.  h^ep  her 
froDDi^penin^  thd  b()x>  from  pryi4g:  into  tlK^it^PiiM^' which 
she  had  not  had  the  coUffage;  to.iook  at  for  sueh  long, 
iQug  years.  She  tbiought;.;Witb  a  shiver,  pf  those  years. 
Cifteen  of  them !  And  so  Olear  does/u^m^^  Sinnetimes 
become  that  iMiss  Hioks  could  dji^tinetily  ^eipi^e^ber  when 
she  had  placed  the  last  letter,  ia  the  bo2|-^er  '"^Treasure 
Bbx"  she  had  often  ^eialted  iiblwi»gly-''W^d  as  she 
thmtght  of  aUvthat  had  happened  9Uii!ie^hei^a4. Pint  that 
letter  in/ofiall  theJonelinegaand'deaolatlo}^  pl  ^^se  fif- 
teeaa:  yeAts<  ehfc  tbent  bev  head  on  ithe  .littl^igrieen.^x  and 
cried  softly.     .   >  <.        r  :/  -.  /         .       • 

.  '.  Afteir:  a  wfcile  sbie.  raised  .he?  head*!  audi  V^W^  a  qmck 


THE  ENTEfiTAlNINO  6B0UB  33^ 

fladi  of  determination  in  her  grey  eyee,  took  the  lid  fppm 
the  box  atid  ttirned  the  oonlteiit»  otit  on  the-  table.  On 
toip  of  the  heap  lay  se<TeiiBil  yellowed  envelopes,  quaintly 
embossed,  with^*-Mfcs  Mary  BUeii  Hiefcs"  writftea  on 
them  in  faded;  boyish  writing;  'With  a  ciaressiiig  tbuch 
Miss  Hicks  put  these  aside  and  pieked  up  a  bent  tintype 
of  a  boy  with  laughing  eyei^  and  a  tender,  'i^easaivt 
mouth.  '  At  this  she  looked  a  long  time,  at  first  witti<>a 
little  answering  smile  for  the  smile  in  the  picture,  then 
wifli  misty  reminiscent  eyes.  More. mojdewi  valentines 
oame  next' in  the  pile;  muehindre  elaborate,  too,  these 
were,  and  the  verses  seemed 'cbo»3«n' by  a  more  >diseHmi^ 
tiating  eye.  She  put  itHefrri  all  aside,  with  a  ftigU  ttnd  a 
loving  look  for  each,  aiwi  picked' up  the  one  at  the  very 
bottom  ;'thfe  envelope  bore  ia  western  pcfttrnjarkanfl  "was 
not  elaborate  nor  fanciful  eis  thfe  others  had  been,  nor 
were  the  contents  atiythlbig  more  than  a  sheet  of  paper 
folded  around  the  picture  of  in  nian — ^a  nian^ho^'in  spite 
of  the  lines  of  weariness  in^  his  face,  had  still  the  boyidl 
eyes  and  kind  motith  of  the  other  picture.  Od  tbe  papet 
was  written,  in  a  strong,-  angular  hand:       * 

^'Dear  heart,  ti^*  to  :thi:nk  of  m^  and  remember  me 
to-day,  eveh' though  I  am  so  far  away  from  home  and 
you.  I  am  sorry  that  I  have  no  other  valentiAe  4lo -send 
yatst,  bftrt  there!  is  mior^  16ve  in  this  fctap  bf  paper  tUan  in 
all  the  vaientines  in  creation.  I  am  thinking  jMt'now 
how,  a  year  ago,  you  and  I  were  sittiflig  iff' the  dear  olid 
home  parlor,  making  valenttftes  foiF  the  neighbors '\5hili 
dren,  and  when  I  think  of  the  difference  between  then 
and  now,  I  feel  as  sad  and  depressed  as  the  wailing  ^ines 
around  me.    I  have  had  sncb  strange  premomtidns  to- 


338  TYPES  OP  PBOSB  NABRATIVES 

day,  too ;  I  se^m  to  see  sucli  a  long  vista  of  years  before 
me  and  you  do  not  seem  to  have  a  share  in  any  of  them. 
Dear  haart,  I  want  you  to  promise  me. that  you  will 
never  forget  me,  no  matter  where  I  may  be,  whether  I 
am  living  or  dead.  If  I  know  this  it  will  take  away,  in 
part  at  least, » my  loneliness  and  my  feeling  of  desertion 
on  this  desolate  ranelu .  Good-bye,  dear,  and  Qod  bless 
yon.  Your  Dan." 

The  paper  dropped  from  Aliss  Hicks*  nerveless  fingers 
as  dhe  remembered  that  first  long  year  of  separation — a 
lonely  year^  even  though  it  was  she  herself  who  had 
urged  Dan  to  be  independent  of  his  rich,  crotchety  old 
uncle*  and  to  seek  his  own  fortune  away  somewhere,  so 
that  he  might  be  :the  man  she  wanted  him  to  be.  She 
remembered  achingly  how  long  she. had  waited  for  an- 
other letter,  at  .first  with  eager  anticipation,  later  with 
dtfeadjhow  slowly  time:  had  passed  after  that  tender  lit- 
tle valentine  note^  and  how  one  day  some  of  her  own  let- 
ters came  biiek  to  her,  marked  unclaimed.  And  then  she 
thought  of  the  time^  «^veral  years  later,  when  her  mother 
had  died  and  when  she  felt  for  the  first  time  the  old  grief 
of  utt^  loneliness  and  misery,  and  the  desolation  of  those 
months,  eame.  over  her  again,  in  one  great  sickening 
wave  that; made  her  shake  from  hes.d  to  foot;  she  re- 
called the  days  that  followedj  full  of  visits  from  kind  and 
oondoliaoig  neighbors,  who  gradually  let  her. alone  when 
theysafw  how:  muah  she  desired  itj  the  nights,  full  of 
grief  i^nd  unsatisfied  longing,  when  fehe  gave  way  un- 
restrainedly to  the  sorrow  which  was  pent  up  during 
the'day*,'.  ••■,:•. 

But»*-iand  Miss  Hi^eks  straighteaaed  up  with  a  proud 


THE  ENTBBTAINIKO  6B0TIP  889 

little  smile,  though  her  lips  atill  trembled— at  all  events 
sh^.hfid  remain^  £aith£ul  to  her  promise;  though  doubts 
had  often  assailed  her,  she  had  kept  the  tryst  bravely, 
and  ^e  <)om|prt0d  hetrself  of  ten  by  thinking,  when  she 
felt  especially  jtired  and  alone,  that  if  Dan  were  living, 
he  wo^d  surely  find  bis  wso^  ba<^  to  hecr  some  day,  and 
if  he  wei^*e  d^ad  ahe  had  a  childish  little  feeling  of  re* 
lief  thfi:t.ba  w^  watehing  over  her  and  protecting  her 
all  thetiaaje. . 

The  olook  struck  eteven  slow,  even  strokes,  and  Miss 
Hicks,  in  amazement  at  the  li^teness  of  the  hour^  hastily 
put  the  vatentineS{  in  the  box,  and  with  one  last  look,  set 
it  ba|3k  pn  %he  shelf,  and  went  to  bed.  She  tossed  rest- 
lessly for^a  l<mg/time,  for  her  thoughts  and  the  recollec* 
tions  they  had  awakened  were  sadder  than  usuaL  But 
still  ;sh(e  felt  glad  that  at  last  she  had  had  the  courage 
to  call  back  openly  the  memories  that  she  had  strnven 
to  put  asid^  for  so  long.  And  when  she  did  finaU]^  fall 
asleep,  her  dreams  made  her  thin  lips  part  in  happy 
curves,  and  ciiused  her  to  utter  now  and  then  deep,  un« 
conscious  sighs  of  content. 

The  next  morning  -was  sunshiny,  with  notl^oe  of 
yesterday's  glpom,  and  the  little  street  seemied  to  have 
beoomp  dry  as  if  by  magic,  and.  to  have  lost  forihe  time 
being  jit9  dinginess  in  the  sunshine  poured  out  on  it  so 
liberally.  Miss.Hieks  sal  at  her  window,  busied  with  re- 
trimming  lan  old  bonnet ;  but  there  was  no  reflection  of 
sunshine  in  h^.>faee^  .The  reaction  due  to  what  she 
had  done  last  night  ha4'^ine  over  her,  and  the  memories 
wh^ch  .had  seeni^d  sweet  then  were  unpleasant  and  bit-" 
tor  this  mpmiug.  .  AU  her.li£e,  she  thought  sadly,  was 
madei  up  of  unrealized  hopes  and  ungi^nted  desires ; 


8ft0  TlZTtES  OF  PBOBB  KABBATIVDS 

wiiatever  had  been  dear  to  her  had  been  taken  away 
when  she  most  needed  it ;  every  di8d.6ter  and  trouble  had 
colne  upon  her  when  she  vtM  least  ready  to  meet  it.  And 
now  1^^  thoa^t  with  a  sigh;  she  hald  bed^om^  too  <^d  to 
ever  have  it  diflSerent;  it  seeihed  to  her  that  never  had 
her  eyes  been  so  lifeleins,  her>  ttiouth  so  lined  and  care- 
woniy  her  hair  so  thin  and  gtey  ds  they  had  appeared 
this  morning  in  her  little  mirrCKr;  Whilt  an  unfair  thing 
the  world  was  anyway,  she  thought,  as  she  bit  off  her 
thnefad  refleotively  and  watiehed  the  matl-^oarrier  coming 
briskly  across  the  street.  What  a  lot  of  mail  those  peo- 
ple next  door  did  get  1   E^ren  thqt  'v^aisr  not  divided  fairly. 

Bilt— and  fitoe  stared  in  astonishment — the  mail-car- 
rier  was  actually  coming*  to  her  house  i  at  this  vfery  min- 
ute he  was  climbing  her  rickety  little  steps  and  knock- 
ing at  her  battered  little  d^or.  She  hastily  dropped  her 
work  and  hurried  to  open  the  latch. 

'*It  must  be  tfae«  wrong  place,''  She  began  depreeat- 
in^y,:but  he  shoved  a  bulky  (envelope  through  the  crack 
in  the  doov  and  with  a^  pleiusant  ^^6uess'it's  yours,  all 
right;  good  morning,"  was  off  again  before  she  could 
iremonstrate  ifurther^.  It  eert^iiriy  must  be  hel*s,  for  it 
said,  ^'Miss  Mary  Blleti*  Hides,  :Lombard  Street,  Mid- 
viUe,"  inbdgy  bold  dharaoters  om  the-envelopfe;  it  was 
an  mnbossed  oney  too,  with  gay  oupids  and  ^rlands  of 
roses  on  the  bordet;  Miss  Hick»  kloked  at  it  wender- 
ikigly  iat  first  ,*  then  she  smilM  with  the  pleaded  anticipa- 
ticm  of  a  child,  and  she  prepared  to  cut  the  ^ttrelope 
carefully,  carefully.  She  looked 'at"  the  post-mark,  but 
it  was  too  bluri^ed  to  be  plainly  seen-^atid  jiist  then  a 
thought  canue  to.  her  thatMaide  hci^  ^row  suddenly  white 
^ndtremWe.    No,  no^it  was.impbssible;  but  what  i^ — t 


THE  ENTEETAINma  GROTJP  341 

Bnet  thm^  had  happeaedv  m«ny  and  ma^j  a  time,  and 
just  because  such  things  never  had  happened  to  her  WM 
no  reason  that  th^y  might  not  occur- now.  She  Wfts  al- 
moin aif  raid-to  i^ee  what  the  envelope  held,  afid  shg  turned 
it  over  heritatingly  iti  her  hand;  but  finally  with  shaking 
fingePs  «he>ctit  the  paper,  blew  It  open,  and  drew  Out  the 
folded  paper  inside-  Expectantly  she  unfolded  i^,  her 
heart  beating  high,  her  lips  parted  in  anticipation.  Then 
suddenly  daylight  seemed  to  leave  her,  and  wh^n  thcf 
miitinms  had  (deared  away,  she  fdund  herself  staring 
at  a  hideous  cartoon  in  flaring  red  and  green,  of  an 
old  toaid  With  oorfc«ett5W  eurlsj  a  thin,  angular  figute, 
and  a  Ibn^  hoofced  nose^  while  underneath  wai>i  baldly 
printed  r  .  ■ 

''YoUy're  the  meanest  old  mai^  in  the  oity — 

With  th^-t  we'll  all  surely  agree; 
We  know  you  once  thought  you  were  pretty, 

But  no  trace  of  it  now  ean  v&  see. 
.  And,  say,  have  you  e'er  learned  the  meaning 

Of  sweetheart,  or  lover,  or  beau? 
One  look  at  your  face,  and  we  needn't 
Take  the  trouble  to  heijir  you  say  '  no '/ ' 

The^  ^tting  d^gerel  seemed  imprinted  in  letters  of 
fire  on  Miss  Hidcs^s  brfein;  it  burned  through  her  and 
made  hier  heart  beat  nearly  to  suffocation.  But  the  two 
small  boys  who  were  waiting  at  the  comer,  were  griev* 
oiisly  disappoiated ;  they  expected  at  least  to  see  her 
come  out  df  hel"  house  in  wrath,  and  dertiand  justice 
somewhere,  as  several  others  of  their  victims  had  done. 
They  waited  for  nearly  an  hour  ,•  then,  when  a  mate  called 
them  across  the  street,  they  ran  off  with  him,  forgetting 


342  TYPES  OF  PB06E  NABBATIV£8 

their  disappoiBtment  altogether  after  a  few  moments  of 
play. 

But  the  numb  little  figuire  in  the  milliner's  shop  had 
not  forgotten;  at  noon  she  was  still  aittin^  limply  in 
her  chair,  gazing  out  at  nothing  with  burning,  brilliant 
eyes,  that  now  had  knowledge  in  their  depths  where  be- 
fore there  had  been  only  wonder*    H^r  mouth  quivered 
pitifully,  though  she  tried  bravely  to  make  it  firm  and 
resolute.  .  She  had  had  a  glimpse  into  the  Presenty  harsh 
and  unsympathetic,  and  she  shrank  back  a^ain  into  the 
Past,  where  she  had  been  much  more  happy  and  con- 
tented.   The  To-days  were  not  for  hec;  from  heneeforth, 
she  knew,  all  her  solace  axkd  oompaniotnahip,  all  her  brief  | 
happiness  and  pleasures,  all  her  longings  and  desires—  I 
the  rest  of  her  life,  in  short — ^must  be  lived  in  the  quiet^   ! 
peace-bringing  Yesterdays.  ' 

— Katherine  Kurz. 

A  OUtistmM  Legend 

There  was  great  commotion  in  the  forest,  for  the 
south  wind,  heavy  with  cloying  fragrance  of  the  jasmine, 
had  been  the  bearer  of  wondrous  tidings.  The  forest 
sang  with  joy,  for,  aifter  these  many  years,  it  was  to 
have  a  share  in  the  great  festival  of  the  Master's  birth- 
day. ,  This  was  the  news  that  the  south  wind  had 
brought,  and  he  had  told^  too,  how  an  angel  would  come 
to  choose  the  tree  whom  the  Master  had  most  loved. 

''It  is  I  whom  the  Maafcer  loves,*'  spoke  the  oak,  rear- 
ing his  great  head  in  the  still  air.  ''I  heard  the  angels 
sii^g  at  his  birth ;  and  often  has  he  rested  in  the  shade 
at  my  feet.    It  is  fitting  that  I  be  chosen." 

' '  Nay,  old  oak, ' '  cried  the.  palm,  shaking  her  plumes 


THE  BNTEKTAININa  GROUP  343 

in  eager  denial.  '*  Whose  branchea  did  the  multitude 
wave  at, the  Master's  entry  into  Jerusalem!  I  have  be^i 
already  chostol"  There  were  many  in  the  fbrest  who 
nodded  their  approval  to  this  speech  of  the  palla*»j  but 
the  olive  sighed,  and  whispered: 

"I  have  .watched  with  him  in  Ghethsemane,  and  he 
has  wet  my  feet  with  his  tears.'* 

'  *  But  I, ' '  eried  the  cedat,  stretching  his  tense  arms  to 
the  listening  stars,  ''I  heard  his  dying  groans,  and  my 
heart  is  stidned  with  his  bliood ;  it  was  upon  me  that  his 
body  was  nailed — ^me,  who  watched  over  his  boyhood  on 
the  plains  of  Nazareth  1"  The  forest  was  very  still  as 
the  cedar  finished,  a^oud  only  the  chestnut  ventured  to 
speafc-HBhaking  out  her  broad  leaves,  sjid  distilling  ev- 
erywhere the  heavy  fragrance  of  her  blossoms. 

^'I  am  readCy  for  the  feast,"  she  said  complacently. 
**Last  night,  while  all  of  you  were  sleeping,  an  angel 
came,  and  lit  these  candles  of  mine. ' '    • 

Thus  spoke  among  themselves  the  rulers  of  th0  forest, 
while  the  south  wind  played  among  their  branches ;  nor 
did  they  notice  the  tiny  tree  that  listened  at  their  feet, 
and  crooned  lullabies  to  the  drowsy  birds. 

The  winged  months  flew  by.  In  the  forest,  the  days 
passed  as  before ;  and,  after  the  south  wind  had  sung  its 
farewell  to  the  tree-tops,  the  forest  forgot  the  tidings 
which  the  breeze  had  brought.  Only  one  tree  remem- 
bered; the  lullaby  which  it  sang  to  the  birds  nestled 
in  its  arms  was  of  the  wonderful  birthday  festival  of  the 
Master. 

Finally  came  the  North  Wind,  calling  to  the  forest 
to  prepare  for  its  long  sleep.  The  trees,  one  by  one,  cast 
off  their  brilliant  raiment — ^the  cedar,  last  of  all — ^and 


344  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

stood  gaunt  and  ni^ed  tinder  iine  dark  dqr:  Only  th€ 
tiny  tree  in  the  shadow  of  the  oak  did  not  heed,  and 
bravely  defied  the  fierce  jestings  df  the  Nortii  Wind 
*'Oho^  Httle  tree,''  he  roared,  whirling  the  siiowflakes 
through  its  tiny  boughs,  '^dofl!  your  green  garm^it  and 
go  to  sleep !  Or,  perhaps,  yo^  are  waiting  for  the  an- 
gel?" Then  the  forest  laughed -long  and  loud.  **  Little 
tree,"  it>  jeered,  ^^eling  to  the  oak)  the  angel  ^U  step 
upon  you!" 

But  even  as  it  jeered,  a  great  light  br^ke  through  the 
forest;  tHe'  trees  were  afraid  and  bowed  themselves  as 
before^  a  storm.  And  when  they  lifted  up*  their  heads, 
behold  I  tile  little  treie  stood  strai^t  and  tall  in  its  robes 
of  green,  and  in  its  topmost  branch  there  gleamed  a 
star. 

—Ida  F.  Treat 


CHAPTER  V 

THE  IN^TEUCTIYB  GROUP 

The  Instructive  Group  is  composed  of  those  uar- 
•ativea  whose  chieiE  purpose  is  to  inform  the  reader  of 
certain  conditions  and  problems  of  which  he  ought  to 
.ake  intelligent  account.  The  writer  may  offer  a  solu- 
ion,  as  in  the  moral  story;  or  a  theory,  as  in  the. 
)edagogical  narrative;  or  he  may  simply  present  the 
>icture,  as  in  a  realistic  sketch,  and  leave  knowledge 
o  bring  reform  by  the  sheer  natural  law  by  w]ji.ich 
lay Ught  scftttfers  the,  evils  of  darkness. 

1.    Thie  Moral  Story 

TJie  mqral  story  must  »,9t ,  be  .<?oufused  with  th?. 
able,  p^rahlfj,  qp ^aUegory.    It  is  lijce  them  in  tJ^at.itflj 
hief  purpose  i»  to  tefwjb,  but  it  differs,  from , 
hem  in  ©Qt  ^^pg  figi^r^^iv^  or.  symbolic,    ft  ^^^    : 
J  always  partiq\ilftr  and  .prpfeswedly  literal- from  syw- 
ts  boMt  is;tbat.^^t  ^tick^,?Jo^e,tp  facrts— the  ^^^J*^.". 
act^.pf  ''life,"  p«opl^';3..ne^ds,  if.^ot  their 
istory,    Jn^.th^r  w:prd^  t^^Qugh  fictitious,  Jt  pr^ud^ 
D  be.,  wtirely  worth  vJ^ile  beqaus^  of  .the  concrete 
dfisoiv.it  te^jshiBS..   It  |8|eti8(  out  to  show  you  the'^rit 
onsequei^es  of  samp  vice  or  folly  or  the  good  ^re^rult. 
f  a  .pjLpp^  net,         ,  :        V 

Thff  critifiSj  hftve.  nevjep  had  a  v^^y  pordif^l . W9^^.  ft»l 

345 


346  TYPES  OP  PBOSE  NABRATIVES 

this  type  of  narrative:  the  usaal  smugness  of  it  is 
oflPensive.  Many  old  legends  are  moral  tales.  The 
''Qesta  Romanorum''  was  largely  meant  to  instruct  in 
pious  ways.  Boccaccio,  even,  cares  for  ethical  effect, 
when  he  writes  such' stories  as  **6riselda."  A  modern 
reader  is  entirely  out  of  patience  with  the  complacent 
self -righteousness  of  Giialtieri.  Chaucer's  easy  and 
captivating  style  and  his  true  pathos  and  appreciation 
of  dramatic  moments  can  not  altogether  keep  down  our 
irritation  at  an  egregious  monster  parading  under  the 
guise  of  a  beneficent  lord  and  a  loving  husband.  Our 
irritation,  of  course,  is  really  directed  not  toward 
Chaucer  or  Boccaccio,  but  toward  the  Middle  Ages, 
that  could  take  such  a  character  as  this  and  feel  no 
umbrage — no  shadowing  of  the  brute  over  man. 

There  have  been  a  number  of  examples  of  moral 
tales  in  modern  literature.    Hawthorne's  ''Ambitious 
Quest"  is  one,    '/X*a(iy  Eleanor's  Mantle"  is 
^™*  another,  though  it  is  also  a  legend;  for  a  moral 
narrative,  just  as  an  occasiohal  narrative,  may  be  of  any 
type  the  author  chooses.    '*Murad  the  Unlucky'*  by 
Maria  Edgeworfh  is  the  Oriental  wonder  tale  turned 
didactic.    What  makes  this  or  that  a  story  with  a  moral 
is  the  author's  bbvious  confeern  about  the  lesson  he 
means  to  teach.    His  narrative  is  nothing  in  itself:  it 
is  what  it  is  because  of  the  authoi*'s  purpose.     Doubt- 
less the  tnost  widely  influential' moral  story  ever  writ- 
ten ii^ ''Uncle  Tom's  Cabin."    It  is  a  striking 
example  of  how  much  more  powerful  is  con- 
crete narrative  than  abstract  argument.    The  Americans 
were  ready  for  the  sermon,  but  they  never  would  have 
listened  to  it  from  the  pages  of  k  colitroversial  tract.    A 


THE  INSTKUGTIVE  GROUP  .  347 

story,  they  took  to  their  heads  and  their  heartd.  It  is 
the  fate  of  moral  narratives  of  this  sort,  how'ever,  to 
be  for  the  time  only;  and  seldom  do  any  rise  to  the 
plane  of  real  literature.  ^^Rasselas"  has  endured 
partly  because  of  the  fame  of  its  great  author,  and 
partly  because  of  itsT  high  and  true  pessimism.  Readers 
nat^ally  like  pessunism,  and  when  it  is  of  this  good, 
philosophic  floift,  they,  feel  justified  in  their  taste.  Tha. 
theme  is  Johnson's  favorite  topic-*-the  van-  johnson 
ity  of  human  wishes,  the  futility  of  the  and 
quest  for  happiness.  Voltaire's  ' ' Candide,"  Voltaire 
which  camo  out  in  France  two  weeks  before  ''Eas- 
selas,"  is  on  the  same  topic  with  practically  the  same 
moral.  But  Yoltaif e.  was  an  agnostic  and  a  cyniq, 
while  Johnson  was  a  m^st  conventional  pietist.  Addi^ 
son  and  Steele  aa  well  as  Johnson  included  didactio 
stories  in  their  periodicals.  Count  Tolstoy,  in  hi^. 
desire  to  .help  his  countrymen,  has  writtctn  T^gtk^, 
many  parables^  allegories^  and  moral  tales;  0•rva^te^ 
They  are  read  by  foreigners  because  of  the  pictures  of 
Bussian  life.  So  are  Cervantes 's  '  •  Novelas  Ejemplares ' ' 
read  for  their  fresh  and  sprilbely  oharaeter^-pictures  of 
Andaliisia.  They  are  instructive  n^oral  tales,  As  their 
name  indicates  and  as  .their  author  very  definitely 
asserted.  So  idiomatic,,  spirited,  and  graceful  are  they 
that^  though  the  oldest  stoties  of  their  class  in  Spanish 
literature^  they  are  without  succesisful  rivals. 

An  exercise  in  this  kind  of  narrative  .sujrely  will  polt 
hurt  ydu,  and  you  may  get  some  benefit  from  it,  even 
if  the  chajaee  reader  should  not  like  your  preaching^ 
Try,  however,  to  make  the  story  interesting  in  itself 
and  to  have  the  moral  sefem  to  grow  naturally  out  of 


/  \ 


348  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NAfiEATIVES 

the  action,  rather  thAn  the  ad^ion  out  of :  the  moral. 
Avoid  platitudes,  and  reveal  the  cuBtoma  snd  manners 
of  yonr  people  bo  faithfnlly  that  tbe  student  of  social 
science  might  use  your  narrative  for  data. 

Jeaimot  And  CoUn. 

Many  trustworthy  persons  can  voneh  for  having  seen 
Jeannot  and  Colin  when  they  went  to  school  at  Issoiie 
in  Auvergne,  a  town  famous  all  over  tbe  world  for  its 
college  «ind  its  kettles.  Jeannot  was  the  son  o£  a  dealer 
in  mules,  a  man  of  considerable  repulatiog)^;  Goiin  owed 
his  existence  to  a  worthy  husbandman  who  dwelt  on  the 
outskirts  of  the  town,  and  cultivated  his  farm  with  the 
help  of  four  mules,  and  who,  after  paying  tolls  and  tal- 
lage, scutage  and  salt  dnty,  poundage,  pell*tax,  and 
tithes,  did  not  find  himself  particulariy  Well  off  at  the 
end  of  the  year. 

Jeannot  and  CoHn  were  very  handsome'  lads  for  na- 
tives of  Auvergne;  they  were  much  attached  to  each 
other,  and  had  little  secrets  togietfaear-  and  private  under- 
standings, such' as  old  comrades  always  recall  with  pleas- 
ure when  they  afterward  meet  in  a-  widei*  world. 

Their  school  days  were  drawing*  near  their  .end,  when 
a  tailor  (me  day  brought  Jeannot  a  velvet  coat  of  three 
colors;  with  a  waistcoat  of  Lyon^  silk  in  excellent  taste 
to  matdh.  Thiff  suit  of  clothes  was  aceolmpaaiied  by  a 
letter  addressed  to  Monsieur  de  La  Jean^oftlere*  Colin 
admired  the  coat',  and  was  not  at  all  jealous;  bat  Jemmot 
assumed  an  air  of  supeariority  which  dii^ressed  Colin. 
From  that  moment  Jeannot  paid-  no  more  heed  to  his  les- 
sons, but  was  always  looking  at  his  reflection  in  the  glasa 
and  despised  everybody '  but  himteif;  '  S^he  time  afte^ 


THE  INSTRUOTIVE  GROUP  349 

ward  a  fi^oteaii' arrived  posrt^iaste  bringing  a  seeond  let- 
ter^ addiretend  Jbdd  time  to  His  Lordship  th«  Marqms  de 
La  Jeannotiere;  it  contaiiied  an  order  from  hift  father 
tor  the  yomkg  nobkemaxty  his  son^  to  be  sent  to-  Paris.  As 
Jeaimoit  mounted  tOie  dhaise  to  dlrive  ofiEy^  he  8trd:ehed  out 
his  hmad  toi:Golin  with  aipatrOnMag  smile  .foefitting  his 
rank.  Colin  felt  his  own  insignificance,  ancl  wept.  So 
Jeailiiot  departed  in  aiil  hm  glory. 

Heajdteh^s  who  like  to  know  all  about  tfaiiaigs  may  be  in- 
formed  that  Monskur  Jeaniiot^  the  father,  had  rapidly 
gained  iHuaense  we^th  inbuaoness.  You  ask  how  those 
great  fortunes  are  made?  It  bll  depends  upon  luek. 
Monsieur  Jeannot  h&d  a  eomely  person,  and  so  had  his 
wife ;  moreover^  her  complexioik  was  fresh  and  biooming. 
They  had  gone  to  Paris  to  prosecute  a  lawirat  which  was 
ntixung  tiiem,wben  Fortune,  who  lifts  up  and  ca^s  down 
human  beings  at  her  pleasure,  presented  them  with  an 
introduction  to.  tli^e  wife  of  an  artuy  hospital  contractor, 
a  man  of  great  talent,  who  could  boast  of  having  killed 
mor^  sdldierB  >iu  one  year-  than  the  cslnntm  had  destroyed 
in  ten;  Jeannot. took  the  lady's.faney^  and  Jeannot 's 
wife  eaptiyated  the  g^itleman.  Jeannot  soon  beeame  a 
partner,  in  busineiEfs;  ahd' entered  into  other  speculations. 
When  one  Is  in*  the  current  of  the  stream^  one  need  only 
let  ojle'id  mii  drifts  a&d.thiui  an  immense  fortune  may 
sometimes  be  madie  without  any  trouble.  The  beggars 
watdli  you  from  the  bank,,  as  you  glide  along  in  fuU 
sail,  open  their  eyes  iii  astonishment;  they  wonder  how 
you  havjo  managed  to  get  on ;  they  envy  you,  at  all  events, 
and  write  pamphlets  against  you  which  you  never  read. 
That  FAS  what  happ^ied  to  Jeannot  senior,,  who  was  soon 
styled  Monsieur  deLa  Jealmoti^t'e,  and^iafteaf  buyjliag  a 


350  TYPES  OF  PBOSK  NABEATIVES 

marquisate,  at  the  end  of  six  months  he  to(^  the  young 
nobleman,  hia  son,  away  from  school,  to  launch  him  into 
the  fashionable  world  of  Paris. 

Colin,  always  effectiotnately  disposed,  wrote  a  kind 
letter  to  his  old  schoolfellow,  offering  his  con^attilations. 
The  little  marquis  sent  him  no  answer,  which  grieved 
Colin  sorely. 

The  first  thing  that  his  father  and  mother  did  for 
the  young  gentleman  was  to  get  him  a  tutor.  This  tutor, 
who  was  a  man  of  distinguished  manners  and  profound 
ignorance,  could  teach  his  pupil  nothing.  The  marquis 
wished  his  son  to  learn  Latin,  but  t&e  marchioness  would 
not  hear  of  it.  They  ccmsulted  the  opinion  of  a  certain 
author  who  had  obtained  considerable  celebrity  at  that 
time  from  some  popular  works  which  he  had  written. 
He  was  invited  to  dinner,  and  the  master  of  the  house 
began  by  saying: 

''Sir,  as  you  know  Latin,  iLnd  are  conversant  with  the 
manners  of  the  court—'* 

'M,  sir!  Latin!  I  don't  know  a  word  of  it,"  an- 
swered the  man  of  learning;  ''and  it  is  just  as  well  for 
me  that  I  don't,  for  one  can  speak  one's  own  language 
better  when  the  attention  is  not  divided  between  it  and 
foreign  tongues.  Look  at  all  our  ladies;  they  are  far 
more  charming  in  conversation. than  men;  their  letters 
are  written  with  a  hundred  times  more  grace  of  ex- 
pression. They  owe  that  superiority  over  us  to  nothing 
else. but  their  ignorahce  of  Latin:" 

'.'  There,  now !  Was  I  not  right  ? ' '  said  the  lady.  ' '  I 
want  my  son  to  be  a  man  of  Wity  and  to  make  his  way  in 
the  world.  You  see  that  if  he  were  to  learn  Liatin  it 
would  be  his  ruin.    Tell  me^  if  you  t)lease,  are  plays  and 


THE  INSTRUCTIVE  GBOUP  351 

operas  performed  in  Iiatinf  Are  the  proceedings  in 
court  conducted  in  Latin,  when  one  has  a  lawsuit  on 
hand?    Do  people  make  love  in  Latin T' 

The  marquis,  confounded  by  these  arguments,  passed 
sentence,  and  it  was  decided  that  the  young  nobleman 
should  not  waste  his  time  in  studying  Cicero,  Horace, 
and  Virgil. 

**But  what  is  he  to  learn,  then?  For,  I  suppose,  he 
will  have  to  know  something.  Might  he  not  be  taught  a 
little  geography?" 

'^What  good  will  that  do  him?"  answered  the  tutor. 
"When  jsly  lord  marquis  goes  to  visit  his  country-seat, 
will  not  his  postillions  know  the  roads?  There  will  be 
no  fear  of  their  going  astray.  One  does  not  want  a 
sextant  in  order  to  travel,  and  it  is  quite  possible  to  make 
a  journey  between  Paris  and  Auvergne  without  knowing 
anything  about  the  latitude  and  longitude  of  either," 

'*Very  true,"  replied  the  father;  *'but  I  have  heard 
people  speak  of  a  noble  science,  which  is,  I  thizik,  called 
astronomy.*' 

^' Bless  my  soul!"  rejoined  the  tutor.  "Do  we  regu- 
late our  behavior  in  this  world  by  the  stars  ?  Why  should 
my  lord  Marquis  wear  himself  out  in  calculating  an 
eclipse,  when  he  will  find  it  predicted  correctly  to  a 
second  in  the  almanac,  which  will  moreover  inform  him 
of  all  the  movable  feasts,  the  age  of  the  moon,  and  that 
of  all  the  princesses  in  Europe?" 

The  marchioness  was  quite  of  the  tutor's  opinion,  the 
little  marquis  was  in  a  state  of  highest  delight,  and  his 
father  was  very  undecided. 

"What  is  my  son  to  be  taught,  then?"  said  he. 

"To  make  himself  agreeable^"  answered  the  friend 


352  TYPES  OF  PEOSE  NABEATIVES 

"Whom  they  had  cdnsolted;  ^*£bj*,  i£  he  knows  the  way 
to  please,  he  will  knew  everything  worth  knowing.  It 
is  an  art  which  he  will  leara  fitom  hjer  Ladyship,  his 
mother,  trathout  the  least  trouble  to  either  of  them." 

The  marahioness,  at  these  words,  smiled  graeioudy 
upon  the  eourtly  ignpraiHUSy  and  said : 

^'It  is  easy  to  see,  sir,  that  you  are  a  most  accom- 
plished'^HLtlexnaii ;  toy  son  will:  owe. all  his  education  to 
you;  I  imagine,-  however,  that  it  wiU  not  be  a  bad 
thing  for  him  to  know  a  little  history." 

'^Nay,  madam,  what  good  would  that  do  himT*  he 
answered;  ^  ^Assuredly,  the,  only,  enteiftaimng  and  use- 
ful history  is  that  of  the  passing  hour.  All  ancient  his- 
tory, as  one  of  our  clever  .writeni  has  observed,  is  ad 
mitted  to  eoBsist  of  nothing  hut  fables,  and  for  us  mod- 
erns it  is  an  inextricftble  (slmos.  What  does  it  matter  to 
the  young  gentleman!,  your  son,  if  Cbarlemagxie  insti- 
tuted the  twelve  Paladins  of  fVaHoe^  or  if  bis  successor 
had  aa  impediment  in .  his  speiech  V* 

** Nothing  was  ever  more  wisely  said!"  exclaimed  the 
tutor.  ''The  minds  of  children  are  smothered  under  a 
mass  of  useless  knowledge,  but  of  all  sdiences,  that  whicli 
seems  to  me  the  most  absurd,  and  the  one  best  adapted 
to  extinguish  every  spark  of  genius,  is  geometry.  That 
ridiculous .  science  concerns  itself,  with  surfaces,  lines. 
and  points  which  have .  no :  existence  in  nature.  Ic 
imagination  a  hundred  thousand  curved-  lines  may  bt 
made  to  pass  between  a  cirdle  ^uid  a  straight  line  whici 
touehes  it,  although  in  reality  yout  could  not  insert  sc 
much  as  a.  straw.  Geometry,  indeed^  is  nothing  moiv 
than  a  bad  joke.'' 

The  makrquis  and  his  lady.^didinot.utiderstaiid  mucL 


THE  INaTEUCTlVE  OROtTP  353 

of  the  J9ieamfig  of  what  the  tutor  was  saying,  but  they" 
quite  agt^ed  iviithhim.  ^^  A  Bobkman  like  his  Lord^ip/* 
he  co»tmu^,  *'«hould  not -dry  up  his  brain  with  such 
unpro^its^ble  studies,  If^  some  day^  he  should  want  on^ 
of  tbosp  sublime  geometriciftnS'to  draw  a  plan  of  his 
estated».be  o$m  have  them  measured  for  moneys  If  h^ 
should  wish  to  trade  oat  the  anibiqaity  of  his  lineage, 
which  goes  hack  tio  theiBuoirt  Tem:(Dt6  ages^iaU  he  will  have 
to  dp  wiU  be.  to  aead^&T'fiome 'learned  Benedictine.  It  is 
thSii^Pfti?  witbiall  the; Qthei< .arts.  A  ydnng  lord  born  un- 
der* a  IvM^^y  stac  is  neither  a  pointer,  nor  a  mumcian,  nor 
an  ar^hiteoti  19^^  a  l^culptor,  but  he  hiay  make  all  these 
art9  flow^h  by.jQjiCKmi^^ag  them  with  his  generous  ^p' 
provsU...  doubtless  lit  is.oiiiucih  better  to  patronize  than  to 
praiJtic^  tbewi-  It;wUl  be  quite  enough  if  my  lord  the 
youiig  MarQuis^heis  taate ;  it  i«(the  part  of  artists  to  WOrfe 
for  him^  md  thus  tjhece  ia  a  great  deialt)f  truth  in  thfr 
rendftrj:  jth^ti.p^pte:Of  quality  (that  is,  if  they  are  very 
rich.),,  k^fl^w  everything  withdat  learning  anything,  be 
cause,  in  point  of  faet  and  in.the  long  run,  they  are  mas^ 
terS( o?  ,ail  the  knowledge  they,  can  order  and  pay '  for. ' ' 

Tlie  agrei^able  ig&oramui  then. resigned  his  part  in 
the  con.Y(E}r)^^tion,  wd^Saids  ,-  \ 

*/.'5fp:^,h«(ye;lf(8^ remarked^  madam>  thatthe  g!*eat  tend 
of  .man 'f^  exist^eiide.  is  to  sijusdeed  in  society.  Is  it,  for-^ 
sooth,:  any  aid  to  the  attainment  of  this  siicaess  to  have 
devpted;9Jie's  self  to  the  soiencesi  Does  any  <j4ie  ever 
thipk  in^leqt;  mmpmy^  oi  tiiifcing  :about  ge<!^tiletry  ?  Is 
a  g^35itlemw,^v^p  asked- what  star  rises  to-day  with  the 
sun?  .  Doffs  my  Qn^  at  the  supper-stable  ever  want  t6- 
know;  if/(jUodioji,  .the;Iioog-Haired,  crbssed  the  Rhhiel*'' 

* '  No,  iideed  1  '^  /^x claimed  the  marchionesi^  de  la  Jean- 


354  TYPES  OP  PEOSB  NABRATIVES 

notieite,  whose  charms  had  been  her  passport  into  the 
world  of  fashion,  ''and  my  son  must  not  stifle  his  genius 
by  studying  all  that  trash.  But,  after  all,  what  is  he  to 
b^  t9.ugbt  f  For  it  is  a  good  thing  that  a  young  lord 
should  be  able  to  shine  whai  occasion  offers,  as  my  noble 
hxisbfind  has.  said.  I  remember  onee  hearing  an  abbe  re- 
mark that  the  most  entertaining  seien<3e  was  something 
the  jpame  of  which  I  have  forgotten — it  begins  with  a  B." 
/'With  a  B^  madam?    It  was  not  ^tany,  was  it?" 

"No,  it  certainly  was.  not  botany  that  he  mentioned; 
it  began,  as  I  tell  you,  with  a  B,  and  ended  in  onry." 

"Ah,  madam,  I  understand!  It  was  blazonry,  or 
heraldry.  That  is  indeed  a  most  profound  science.  Bat 
it  has  ceased  to  be  fashionable  since  the  custom  has  died 
out  of  haying  one's  coat  of  arms  painted  on  one's  car- 
riage doors;  it  was  the  most  useful  thing  imaginable  in 
a  weU-Qrderpd  state.  Be^des,  that  line  of  study  would 
be  endieps,  for  at  the  present  day  there  is  not  a  barber 
who  is  without  bis  armorial  bearings,  and  you  know  that 
whatev^  becomes  common  loses  its  attraction.'' 

Finally,  after  all  the  pros  and  cons  of  the  different 
<^<?ieBp.es  had  .been  examined  and  discussed,  it  was  de- 
cided that  the  young  marquis  should  learn  dancing. 
.  Pam^  Natmre,  who  arranges  everything  according  to 
her  own  will  and  pleasure,  had  given  him  a  talent  which 
soon. developed,  securing  him  prodigious  success;  it  was 
th^t  of  singing  street  ballads  in  a  charming  style.  His 
youthful  grace  aceompanying  this  superlative  gift  caused 
him  to.  b^  regarded  as  a  young  man  of  the  highest  prem- 
ie. He.  \^asi  a  favorite  with  the  ladies,  and,  having  his 
head  crammed  with  songs,  he  had  no  lack  of  mistresses 
to  whom  to  addreiss  hia  verses.    He  Stole  the  Kne  **Bac- 


THE  INSTRUCTIVE  aEOUP  356 

chus  with  the  Loves  at  play"  from  one  ballad,  and  made 
it  rhyme  with  ** night  and  day''  taken  from ' another, 
while  a  third  furnished  him  with  **  charms"  and 
** alarms;"  But  inasmuch  as  there  were  always  a  few 
feet  more  or  less  than  were  wanted  in  his  verses,  he  had 
them  corrected  at  the  rate  of  twenty  sovereigns  a  song. 
And  '*The  Literary  Year"  placed  him  in  the  same  rank 
with  such  sonneteers  as  La  Fare,'  Chaulieu,  Hamilton, 
Sarriasin,  and  Voiture* 

Her  ladyship  the  marchioness  then  believed  that  she 
was  indeed  the  mother  of  a  genitis,  and  gave  a  sUpper 
to  all  the  wits  of  Paris*  The  young  man's  head  Was  soon 
turned  5  he  acquired  the  art  of  talking  without  knowing 
the  meaning  of  what  he  said,'  and  perfected  himself  in 
the  attainment  of  being  fit  for  nothing.  When  his  father 
saw  him  so  eloquent,  he  keenly  regretted  that  he  had  not 
had  him  tiught  Latin,  or  he  would  have  purchased  some 
high  legal  appointment  for  him.  His  mother,  who  was 
of  more  heroic  sentiments  took  upon  herself  t6  solicit  a 
regim^it  for  her  son,-  in  the  meantime  he  made  love — 
and  l6Ye  is  sometimes  more  erpeni^ve  than  a  regiment. 
He  squandered  his  money  freely,  while  his  parents 
drained  their  purses  and  credit  to  a  lower  and  lower 
ebb  by  Jiving  in  the  grandest  style. 

A  young  widow  of  good  position  in  their  neighbor- 
hood, who  had  only  a  moderate  income,  was  kind  enough 
to  make  some  effort  to  prevent  the  great  wealth  of  the 
Marquis  and  Marchioness  de  La  Jeannotiere  from  going 
altogether,. by  consenting  to  marry  the  young  marquis 
with' a  view  to  appropriating  what  remained.  She  en- 
ticed him  to  her  house-,  let  him  make  love  to  her,  allowed 
him  to  see  that  die  was  not  qiiite  indifferent  to  him,  and 


356  TYPES  OF  PBOSB  NABKATIVES 

made  him  her  devoted  slave  withoat  the  least  difficulty. 
At  one  time  she  would  give  him  conunendatioB,  and  at 
another  time  counsel;  she  beciame  his  father's  and 
mother 's  best  friend.  An  ^Id  neighbor  suggasited  marriage. 
The  parents,  dazzled  with  the  i^leatdor  of  the  alliance, 
joyfully  fell  in  with  the  scheme,  and  proniised  their  only 
goo.  to  tbeirmost  intimate  lady  friend.  The  young  mar- 
quis was  thus  about  to  wed  the  woman  h»  adored,  and 
by  whom  he  was  loved  in  return..  The  frieiadfi.of  the 
family  congratulated  him;  the  marriage  siottlemeait  was 
ready  to  be  signed;  the  bridal  dress  and:  the  nuptud 
hymn  were  both  wdl  under  way» 

One  morning  our  young  gentleman  was  on  his  knees 
before  the  charmer  wbouii  fond  affleotion  dud  esteem  were 
Qo  soon  to  mafce  hi9  own.  They  were  tasting  in  ajiimated 
and  teuder  converse  the  first  f rxiits  of  fujbure  happiness, 
settling  how  .they  should  lead  a  liie.<e£  perfect  bliss,  when 
one  of  his  mother's  footmen  presented  himself,  scared 
put  of  his  wits, 

*  *  Here 's  fine  news  whieh  may  surprise  you!' '  said  he; 
'^tiie  bailiffs  are  in  the  hjouse  of  my.  lord  and  lady,  re- 
moving the  furoiture.  .Everylbing  has  be»  eei^ed  by 
th^  ereditors-  There  is  talk,  ol  arresting  people,  and  I 
am  going  to  do  what  I  casi  to  get.n^y  wages  paid." 

/'Let  us  see  w}i^t  has  happened,"  said  the  noarquis, 
**a»xi.discoy|er  the  meaning  of  all  this." 

^  ^  Yqs,  ' '.  99id  the  widow,  ^  ^  go  and  punish  those  rascals 
—gf>,  at  onceT'   • 

He  hurried  homeward.  Whea  he  arrived  at  the 
house  his  father  was  already  in.  pirisop,  and  all  the  ^rv- 
imts  ^^^A  fied,.4eaah.in  a  different  direetion,  eervying  off 
Whatever  they  had  hem  able  to  lay.  their  hands  an.    His 


^    rSCE  INOT^UCTIVE  GROUP  ^ff 

mother  was  alone,  helpless,  forlorn,  and  bathed  in  tears; 
she  had  nothing  left  her  but  the  remembrance  of  her 
former  prosperity,  her  beauty,  hef-  faults,  and  her  fool- 
ish extravagance.     -     i 

After  the  son  had  condoled  with  his  mother  for  a  long 
time,  he  said  at  last: 

*'Let  us  not  despair.  This  young  widow^loYes  me  to» 
distraction;  she  is  even  more  generous  than  she  is 
wealthy,  I  can  assure  y6u.  'I  will  fly  to  her  for  help, 
and  bring  her  to  yon/'  * 

So  he  returned  to  his  mistress,*  and  found  her  mi-j 
gaged' in  private  coalvesrsation  with  a  fascinating  young 
ofl&cer.  . 

*  *  What  I  Is*  that  you,  my  Lord  de .  La  JFeannotiere  ? 
What  business  have  yon  with  me?  How  can  you  leave 
your  mother  by  herself  in  this  wayf-  Go,  and  stay  with 
the  poor  woman,  and  tell  her  tiiat  she  shall  always  have 
nay  good  wishes.  I  am  in  want  of  a  w&iting-woanan  nbw,j 
and  will  gladly  give  her  the  preference. " 

''My  lad,''  said  the  officer,  ''you  seem  pretty  tall  and' 
straight;  if  you. would  like  to  enter  my  conipaiiy,  I  Will 
make  it  woarth  yonr  while  ta  enlist.''  .       . 

The  marquis,  utterly  astounded  and  inwardly  furi*r 
Dus,  went  off  in  search  of  his  former  tutor,  confided  all 
[lis  trofibleji  jloihim,  and  asked  his  advice.  H^  proposed 
±.at  he  should  fbeeome  like  himself,  a  tutor  of  the  young. 

*'Alaa!!  I  Imtyw  nothing ;  you  have  taught  me  noth- 
ing whatever,  "and  you  are-  the  primary  cause  of  all  my 
inhappinesa  ? '   And  as  he  spoke  he  began  to  sob. 

"Writ^  no?srels,'*  said  a  wit  who  .was  present;  "it  is 
in  exceEent  l^souroe  to  fall  bacT£  upon  in  Paris. '  * 

The. young  man,  in  more*  desperate  straits  than  ever, 


368  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NABBATIVES 

hastened  to  the  house  of  his  mother's  father-confessor. 
He  Was  a  Theatine  monk  of  the  very  highest  reputation, 
who  had  charge  of  thb  souls  of  none  but  ladies  of  the 
first  rank  in  society.  As  soon  as  he  saw  him,  the  rever- 
end gentleman  rushed  to  meet  him. 

'  *  Good  gracious !  My  lord  Marquis,  where  is  your  car-  , 
riaget    How  is  your  honored  mother,  the  Marchioness!"  i 

The  unfortunate  young  fellow  related  the  disaster 
that  had  befallen  his  family.  As  he  explained  the  mat- 
ter further  the  Theatiife  assumed  a  graver  air,  one  of 
less  concern  and  more  self-importanoe. 

*  *  My  son,  herein  you  may  see  the  hand  of  Providence; 
riches  serve  only  to  corrupt  the  heart.  The  Almighty 
has  shown  special  favor  to  your  mother  in  reducing  her 
to  beggary.  Yes,  sir,  so  much  the  better !  She  is  now 
sure  of  her  salvation." 

'*But,  father,  in  the  meantime  are  there  no  means 
of  finding  some  help  in  this  world?" 

** Farewell,  my  son!  A  lady  of  the  court  is  waiting 
forme." 

The  marquis  almost  fainted.  He  was  treated  after 
much  the  same  manner  by  all  his  friends,  and  learned 
to  know  the  world  better  in  half  a  day  than  he  had  in 
all  the  rest  of  his  life. 

While  thus  plunged  in  overwhelming  despair,  he  saw 
an  old-fashioned  traveling  chaise,  more  like  a  covered 
tumbril  than  anything  else,  and  furnished  with  leather 
curtains,  followed  by  four  enormous  wagons,  all  heavily 
laden.  In  the  chaise  was  a  young  man  in  rustic  attire; 
his  round  and  rubicund  face  had  an  air  of  kindness  and 
good  temper.  His  little  wife,  whose  sunburnt  coun- 
tenance had  a  pleasing  if  not  refined  expression,  was 


THE  INSTRUCTIVE  aBOUP      .  369 

jolted  about  as  ske  sat  beside  him ;  and  since  the  vehicle 
did  not  go  quite  so  fast  as  a  dandy's  chariot,  the  traveler 
had  pknty  of  time  to  look  at  the  marquis  as  he  stood 
motionleissy  absorbed  in  his  grief. 

'*0h,  good  heavens!''  he  (exclaimed,  '*I  believe  that  is 
Jeannot  there!" 

Hearing  that  name,  the  marquis  raised  his  eyes,  and 
the  chaise  stopped. 

'*  'Tis  Jeannot  himself!    Yes,  it  is  JeannotI" 

The  fat  little  man  sprang  to  the  ground  with  a  single 
leap,  and  ran  to  emforacse  his  companion.  Jeannot  recpg* 
nized  Colin,  shame  showing  in  his  face. 

''You.  hav^  forsaken  your  old  friend,"  said  Galin^ 
*'but  be  you  as  grand  a  lord  as  you  like,  I  shall  never 
cease  to  love  you." 

Jeannot,  confounded  and  cut  to  the  heart/ amid  sobs, 
told  him  something  of  his  history, 

''Come  XAto  the  inn  where  I  am  lodging,  and  tell  me 
the  rest,"  sa}d  Colip;  ''kiss  my  little  wife,  and  let  us  go 
and  4ine  together." 

They  went,  all  three  of  them,  on  foot,  and  the  bag- 
gage followed. 

' '  Wh^t  in  the  world  is  all  this  paraphernalia  ?  Does 
it  belong  to  you?"  inquired  Jeannot 

"Yes,  it  is  all  mine  and'  my  wife's;  we  are  just  come 
from  the  country.  I  am  at  the  head  of  a  large  tin,  iron, 
and  copper  factory,  and  have  married  the  dftnghter  of  a 
rich  tradei^man  and  general  provider  of  all  useful  com'- 
modities  for  great  folks  and  small.  We  work  hard;  and 
God  gives,  us  His  blessing.  We  are  satisfied  with  our 
condition  in  life,  and  are  quite  happy;  We  wiU  help 
our  friend  Jeannot.    Give  up  being  a  marquis;  all  t6e 


360  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

splendor  in  the  world  is  not  worth  a  good  friend.  Re- 
turn with  me  into  the  country.-  I  will  teach  you  my 
trade,  which  is  not  a  difficult  one  to  learn;  I  will  give 
you  a  share  in  the  business,  and  we  will  live  together 
with  light  hearts  in  the  little  place  where  we  were 
born." 

Jeannot,  overcome  by  this  kindness,  struggled  be- 
tween, sorrow  and  joy,  tenderness  and  shame.  He  said 
to  himself: 

''All  my  fashionable  friends  have  proved  false  to  me, 
and  Oolin,  whom  I  despised,  is  the  only  one  who  comes 
to  my  rescue.    What  a  lesson!" 

Colin 's  example  in  generosity  revived  in  Jeaimot's 
heart  the  germ  of  gOQdness  that  the  world  had  never 
quite  choked.  He  felt  that  he  could  not  desert  his  father 
and  mother. 

'  *  We  will  take  care  of  your  mother, ' '  said  Oolin,  * '  and 
as  for  your  good  father^  who  is  in  prison — ^I  know  some- 
thing of  business  matters — ^his  creditors,  when  they  see 
that  he  has  nothing  more,  will  agree  to  an  easy  settle- 
ment.   I  will  see  to  all  that  myself. ' ' 

Colin  was  as  good  as  his  word,  and  succeeded  in  ef- 
feeting  the  father's  release  from  prison.  Jeannot  re- 
turned to  his  old  home  with  his  parents,  \^ho  resumed 
their  former  occupation.  He  married  Colin 's  sister, 
whoi,  being  like  her  brother  in  disposition,  rendered  her 
husband  very  happy.  And  so  Jeannot  the  father,  and 
Jeannotte  the  mother,  and  Jeannot  the  son,  came  to  see 
that  vanity  is  no  true  souree  of  happiness. 

-^Francois  Marie  Arouet  de  Voltaire. 

Trom  ♦'Little  Mafttetpieces  6t  I'iction,'*  Vol  Vir   (BouWe- 
ftoy,  Plage  &  Oo). 


THE  INSTRUCTIVE  GEOUP  361 

n.    The  Pedagogical  Narrative 

The  pedagogical  narrative  can  hardly  be  called 
** story/'  not  only  because  of  the  intent  of  the  writer 
to  instruct,  but  also  because  of  the  special- 
ness  of  the  subject-matter  itself.  **  Leonard  famous 
and  Gertrude,"  however,  has  continued  to  pedagogic- 
be  read  as  story  m  an  interpreted  form  for 
many  years.  *  *  Interpreted ' '  connotes  what  the  modern 
versions  of  **  Leonard  and  Gertrude '*  really  are,  redac- 
tions. When  the  cumbersome  and  somewhat  eccentric 
sentences  of  the  original  were  made  over,  the  plot  wa3 
found  to  be  of  a  good  deal  of  interest,  the  character- 
sketching  peculiarly  fine,  and  the  lessons  taught  high 
and  noble  and  practical  as  well.  Pestalozai  himself  had 
gradually  learned  how  to  teach  children,  and  he  not 
only  told,  but  showed  others.  For  that  is  what  a  peda- 
gogical story  is — %  working  theory  of  instruction  set 
up  in  scenes  and  actions :  it  is  exposition  made  narra- 
tive. Do  you  want  to  know  how  to  teach  Jimmy  and 
Margaret?  This  good  old  Swiss  pedagogue  will  show 
you  how  Gertrude  taught  her  children,  mother  and 
school  mistress,  priest  and  village  reformer  as  she  was. 
If  you  had  lived  in  Queen  Elizabetji's  day  and  wa,nted 
to  know  how  and  what  to  teach  your  boy  or  girl,  you 
could  have  asked  the  gentle  Roger,  the  queen's  own 
schoolmaster.  You  can  ask  him  now  how  he  taught; 
for  he  put  his  thoughts  down  in  a  volume  which  bears 
the  name  of  his  professional  office — quaintly  spelled 
''Scholemaster*' — and  shows  you  his  methods  of  work 
in  forming. the  mind  of  the  perfect  gentleman*  This 
sober  pedagogical  treatise,  which  is  not  narrative,  not 


362  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NAKKATIVES 

story,  was  published  only  after  Ascbam's  death;  but 
many  years  before,  when  he  was  a  very  young  man  and 
much  gayer  but  hardly  less  wise,  he  set  forth  in 
**Toxophilus,"  the  archer,  a  picture  of  how  amusement 
and  learning  can  be  combined.  The  Exposition  proceeds 
in  the  form  of  a  dialogue  (the  old  fashioned  literary 
type  called  debat)  between  a  lover  of  books  and  a  lover 
of  exercise.  **Toxophilus"  is  not  exactly  story  either, 
but  it  approaches  story,  and  is  important  to  onr  type 
because  of  the  intense  and  far-reaching  influence  it 
has  had  on  modern  pedagogy  in  inspiring  a  looking-ont 
for  the  development  of  the  body  as  well  as  the  mind, 
and  in  emphasizing  the  giving  of  instruction  in  an 
interesting  form. 

Prom  Ascham's  *' Schoolmaster''  John  Lyly  got  the 
suggestion  for  his  two  famous  romances  of  Euphues, 
the  ** well-formed"  one.  A  young  man  should  be 
euphues  in  all  things,  said  Ascham,  and  Lyly  under- 
took to  show  a  Briton  thus  as  he  moved  about  in  society, 
at  home;  abroad,  in  friendship  and  love.  So  popular 
did  Euphues  become  that  all  the  ladies  and  gentlemen 
of  Elizabeth's  court  m6delled  their  speech  on  his. 

Charming  old  Sir  Isaac  Walton  joined  the  peda- 
gogues  and  gave  us  a  set  of  delightful  walks  and  talks 
on  angling.  He  teaches  one  to  be  a  ''complete*'  angler 
— an  artist  at  his  pastime. 

A  soil;  of  hand*book  of  etiquette  for  the  golden 
youths  of  the  Renaissance  was  Castiglione 's  *' Cour- 
tier," "a  sketch  of  a  cultivated  nobleman  in  those  most 
cultivated  days."  'The  author,  shows  by  what  precepts 
and  practice  a  fine  gentleman  is  made.  So  well  did  he 
write  that  his  own  nam^  ever  since  has  been  a  synonym 


THE  INfiTRUCTIVE  GROUP  .  363 

for  nubility  and  manliness.  He  gives  us  a  picture  of 
the  purest  and  most,  elevated  court  in  Italy,  that  of 
Guidobaldo  da  Montefeltra,  duke  of  Urbino.  A  dis- 
cussion is  held  in  the  duchess's  drawing-room  to  settle 
the  question,  what  confftitutes  a  perfect  courtier.  The 
type  selected  differs  in  no  material  way  from  the  ideal 
gentleman  of  the  present  day. 

All  of  these  books  are  the  work  of  persons  who  set 
out  seriously  to  teach — except  perhaps  the  gentle  Isaac, 
who  probably  wrote  what  he  wrote  for  sheer  pleasure 
and  taught  by  the  way.  And  they  all  include  what  the 
modern  pedagogical  narrative  includes — disguised 
exposition.  For  the  most  part  the  modern  species  is 
short.  A  publisher  now-a-days,  I  suppose,  could  hardly 
be  induced  to  present  an  educational  system  thinly 
disguised  in  a  long  romance.  Consequently  most  of 
such  stories  come  out  in  our  educational  periodicals  as 
better  or  poorer  literature,  better  or  poorer  teaching. 

Rousseau's  ''The  New  Heloisc''  and'^Emile''  might 
be  mentioiaed  here  were  tbey  not  more  nearly  ha- 
rangues than  stories.  Their  effect  in  renovating  France 
domestically,  though,  will  forever  connect  them  with 
the  word  pedagogy.  They  are  surely  a  pedagogue's 
*' fiction,*'  since  their  author  took  no  care  of  his  real 
children. 

These  treatises  were  almost  immediately  influential 
in  England,  but  now  the  theories  began  to  be  Set  forth 
in  more  truly  narrative  form.  In  **The  Fool  of  Qual- 
ity'- (by  Henry  Brooke),  the  hero  goes  about  spreading 
benevolence  and  cash  and  displaying  his  physical 
strength  and  an  educati6nal  theory  as-  well,  as  to  how 
an    English    Christian   young    gentleman    should    be 


864  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NABKATIVES 

brought  up.  The  later  development  of  such  teaching 
was  naturally  books  addressed  directly  to.  children. 
Thomas  Day's  "Sandford  and  Merton"  had  in  it  stories 
and  dialogues  for  young  people  to  read  for  themselves, 
in  which  they  were  taught  the  value  of  the  sciences 
and  the  virtues.  Maria  Edgeworth's  ** Frank"  and 
'* Rosamond"  and  Jacob  Abbott's  *'Rollo  Books"  are 
for  still  more  juvenile  audiences,  and  in  Froebel's 
** Mother  Plays"  the  baby,  even,  comes  into  its  own. 

This  work  neceissarily,  however,  was  addressed  to 
the  parent.  A  tiny  cyclopedia  of  story,  song,  game, 
and  theory,  it  is  great  pedagogy,  and  in  the 
original,  at  least,  acceptable  literature.  The 
object  of  all  teaching-narratives  should  be  that  which 
Froebel  expresses  in  his  comment  on  one  of  his  own  little 
games  taught  in  a  dialogue  between  a  mother  and  her  son. 
You  recall  that  his  double  purpose  is  to  teach  the 
mother  what  and  how  to  teach  the  child.  He  says, 
**The  deep  import  of  The  Light-Bird  is  hinted  in  the 
scMig  and  motto*  Beware,  however,  of  the  only  one  con- 
tained in  the  play.  Not  only  The  Light-Bird  but  all  the 
plays  which  precede  and  follow  it  have  many  mean- 
ings. Neither  must  it  be  supposed  that  the  meaning 
suggested  by  me  is,  if  not  the  sole,  at  least  the  highest 
one.  My  songs,  mottoes,  and  Commentaries  are  offered 
simply  with  the  hope  that  they  may  aid  you  to  recog- 
nize and  hold  fast  some  part  of  wftat  you  yourself  feel 
while  playing  these  games  and  to  suggest  to  you  how 
you  may  awaken  corresponding  feelings  in  your  child.'' 
If  you  want  to  write  a  pedagogical  narrative  that 
will  startle  the  world,  adopt  the  motto  of  Froebel,  tho 
^harm  of  As<?ham  wd  Walton,  the  graciousness  of 


THE  INSTRUCTIVE  GROUP  386 

Castiglione,  and  the  hard  common  sense  of  Pestalozzi, 
and  then  proceed.  But  hold  1  You  will  need  to  have 
something  to  teach.  Perhaps  you  would  better  not  try 
romance  as  a  vehicle,  but  would  better  stick  to  our 
briefer  types;  Suppose  you  put  into  narrative  form, 
as  others  have  done  since  the  days  of  the  great  kinder- 
gartner,  a  simple  ganie  for  children,  or  your  favorite 
and  most  helpful  method  of  study. 

0«fftrude*8  M«tliod  of  Instruction 

It  was  quite  early  in  the  morning  when  Amer  (the 
people's  father),  Glulhi  (his  lieutenant),  and  the  pastor 
went  to  the  mason's  cottage.  The  room  wias  not  in  order 
yrhen  they  entered,  for  the  family  had  just  finished 
breakfast,  and  the  dirty  plates  and  spoons  still  lay  upon 
the  table.  Gertrude  was  at  first  somewhat  disconcerted, 
but  the  visitors  reassured  her,  saying  kindly:  "This  is 
as  it  should  be;  it  is  impossible  to  cleai'  the  table  before 
breakfast  is  eat^n!'* 

The  children  all  helped  wash  the  dishes,  and  then 
seated  themselves  in  their  customary  places  before  their 
work.  The  gentlemen  begged  Gertrude  to  let  everything 
go  on  as  usual,  and  after  the  first  half  hour,  during  which 
she  was  a  little  embarrassed,  all  proceeded  as  if  no 
stranger  were  present.  First  the  children  sang  their 
morning  hymns,  and  then  Gertrude  read  a  chapter  of 
the  Bible  aloud,  which  th^y  repeated  after  her  white 
they  were  spinning,  rehearsing  the  most  instructive  pas- 
sages until  they  knew  them  by  heart.  In  the  mean  time, 
the  oldest  girl  had  been  making  the  children's  beds  in 
the  adjoining  room,  and  the  visitors  noticed  through  the 
open  door  that  she  silently  repeated  ivhat  the  others  were 


366  TYPES  OP  PBOSE  NAEEATIVES 

reciting.  When  this  task  was  completed,  ahe  went  into 
the  garden  and  returned  witii  vegetables  for  dinner, 
which  she  cleaned  while  repeating  Bible-verses  with  the 
rest. 

It  was  something  new  for  the  children  to  see  three 
gentlemen  in  the  room,  and  they  often  looked  up  from 
their  spinning  toward  the  comer  where  the  strangers 
sat.  Gertrude  noticed  this,  and  said  tq  them:  ** Seems 
to  me  you  look  more  at  these  gentlemen  than  at  your 
yarn."  But  Harry  answered:  **No,  indeed!  We  are 
working  hard,  and  you'll  have  finer  yam  to-day  than 
usual." 

Whenever  Gertrude  saw  that  anything  was  amiss 
with  the  wheels  or  cotton,  she  rose  from  her  work,  and 
put  it  in  order.  The  smallest  children,  who  were  not  old 
enough  to  spin,  picked  over  the  cotton  for  carding,  with 
a  skill  which  excited  the  admiration  of  the  visitors. 

Although  Gertrude  thus  exerted  herself  to  develop 
very  early  the  manual  dexterity  of  her  children,  she  was 
in  no  haste  for  them  to  learn  to  read  and  write.  But  she 
took  pains  to  teach  them  early  how  to  £^eak;  for,  as  she 
said,  ''of  what  use  is  it  for  a  person  to  be  able  to  read 
and  write,  if  he  cannot  speak? — ^ince  reading  and  writ- 
ing are  only  an  artificial  sort  of  speech."  .  To  this  end 
she  used  to  make  the  children  pronounce  syllables  after 
her  in  regular  succession,  taking  them  from  an  old  A- 
B-X)  book  she  had.  This  exerdse  in  correct  and  distinct 
articulation  was,  liowever,  only  a  subordinate  object  in 
her  whole  scheme  of  education,  which  embraced  a  true 
comprehension  oi  life  itself.  Yet  she  never  adopted  the 
tone  of  instructor  toward  her  children ;  abe  did  not  say 
to  them:    *' Child,  this. is  your  bead,  your  nose,  your 


THE  INSTEUCTIVE  GBOUP  367 

hand,  your  finger ;''  or:  ** Where  is  your  eye,  your 
ear r*— but  instead,  she  would  say:  **Cbnie  here,  child, 
I  will  wash  your  little  hands,"  **I  will  comb  your  hair/^ 
or:  **I  will  cut  your  finger-nails/*  Her  Verbal  instruc- 
tion seemed  to  vanish  in  the  spirit  of  her  real  activity, 
in  which  it  always  had  its  source.  The  result  of  her  sys- 
tem was  that  each  child  was  skillful,  intelligent  and  ac- 
tive to  the  full  extent  that  its  age  and  development  al- 
lowed. 

The  instruction  she  gave  them  in  the  rudiments  of 
arithmetic  was  intimately  connected  with  the  realitiids  of 
life.  She  taught  them  to  count  the  number  of  steps  from 
one  end  of  the  room  to  the  other;  and  two  of  the  rows 
of  five  panes  each,  in  one  of  the  windows,  gave  her  an 
opportunity  to  unfold  the  decimal  relations  of  numbers. 
She  also  made  them  count  thdr  threads  while  spinning, 
and  the  number  of  turns  on  tji6  reel,  when  they  wioilnd 
the  yam  into  skeins.  Above  all,  in  every  occupation  of 
life  she  taught  them  an  accurate  and  intelligent  observa- 
tion of  common  objects  and  the  forces  of  natua^e. 

All  that  Gertrude's  children  knew,  they  knew  so  thor- 
oughly that  they  were  able  to  teach  it  to  the  yoimger 
ones ;  and  this  they  often  begged  permission  to  do.  On 
this  day,  while  the  visitors  were  present^  Jones  sat  with 
each  arm  arouird  the  neck  of  a  smaller  child,  and  made 
the  little  ones  pronounce  the  syllables  of  the  A-B-C  book 
after  him ;  while  Lizzie  placed  herself  with  her  wheel  be^ 
tween  two  of  the  others,  and  while  all  three  spun,  taught 
them  the  words  of  a  hymn  with  the  utmost  patience. 

When  the  guests  took  their  departure,  they  told  Ger- 
trude they  would  come  again  oh  the  morroW.  *'Why  f 
she  returned.    **You  will  only  see  the  same  thing  over 


368  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

again. ' '  But  Glulphi  said :  * '  That  is  the  best  praise  you 
could  possibly  give  yourself/'  Gertrude  blushed  at  this 
compliment,  and  stood  confused  when  the  gentlemen 
kindly  pressed  her  hand  in  taking  leave. 

The  three  could  not  sufficiently  admire  what  they  had 
seen  at  the  mason's  house,  and  Glulphi  was  so  over- 
come by  the  powerful  impression  made  upon  him,  that  he 
longed  to  be  alone  and  seek  counsel  of  his  own  thoughts. 
He  hastened  to  his  room,  and  as  he  crossed  the  threshold, 
the  words  broke  from  his  lips :  '  *  I  must  be  schoolmaster 
in  Bbnnal!"  All  night  visions  of  Gertrude's  school- 
room floated  through  his  mind,  and  he  only  fell  asleep 
toward  morning.  Before  his  eyes  were  fairly  open,  he 
murmured:  **I  will  be  schoolmaster!" — ^and  hastened 
to  Amer  to  acquaint  him  with  his  resolution. 

— Johann.  Heinrich  Peatalozzi. 

''Leonard  and  Gertrudf''  (D.  C.  Heath  &  Co*). 

Lawin-Lawinan 

In  the  beautiful  town  of  Santa  Maria,  children  were 
very  fond  of  playing  many  curious  games.  Not  a  single 
day  or  moonlight  evening  eould  pass  without  one's  seeing 
some  children  playing  along  the  wide  streets. 

One  bright  evening  in  the  month  of  July,  after  the 
angelus  bell  rang,  Mapacla,  in  company  with  some  play- 
mates, went  to  Zandoval  Street,  where  many  children 
were  rompiikg.  When  they  reached  the  place,  they 
agreed  to  play  Lawin-lawinan,  Mapacla  was  chosen  by 
all  to  be  the  sisiw  (chicken),  and  a  playmate,  Malacas 
by  name,  to  be  the  lawm  (hawk).  The  chicken  and  the 
hawk  were  the  principal  characters  of  the  game.  The 
rest  of  the  children  formed  a  circle :  each  one  with  out- 


THE  INSTRUCTIVE  GROUP  859 

stretched  arms  held  the  hand  of  the  one  next  him  till  the 
circle  was  formed.  The  space  between  each  two  children 
was  called  the  door,  the  owners  of  which  were  the  phil- 
dren  by  whom  it  was  formed.  The  chicken  stood  inside 
the  circje,  and  the  hawk  stood  outside. 

The  game  was  then  begun.  The  hawk  went  to  the 
first  door,  asking^  **What  door  is  this?" 

'*To  your  honorable  stomach,"  answered  the  owner 
of  the  door. 

''And  this?"  asked  the  hawk,  after  approaching 
another  door.  . 

'  *  To  your  loipg  throat, ' '  answered  the  owner. 

The  hawk  repeated  the  same  questipn,  as  he  wemt 
around  from  door  to  door,  till  he  reached  the  last  one. 

''Have  you  anything  to  sell  me?"  asked  the  hawk 
of  the  door  owner. 

*'A  good  fat  red  chicken!"  answered  the  owner. 

"Let  me  see  its  scales,"  remarked  the  haw^,  as  he 
grasped  the  feet  of  the  chicken.  '  *  This  is  a  fine  quality 
of  wild  bird,"  he  added;  "will  you  have  him  orow?" 

"Crow I"  said  the  owner  to  the  chicken. 

' '  Tic— to — la— la-H)e, ' '  cried  the  chicken. 

"Fine!"  said  the  haWk.  "How  much  will  you  sell 
him  for?" 

"For  one  peso," 'answered  the  owner. 

After  the  bargain  had  been  made  and  the  hawk  was 
about  to  catch  the  chicken,  the  circle  began  to  whirl 
around,  allowing  no  space  for  the  hawk  to  enter.  By 
chance,  however,  the  hawk,  thrusting  himself  through  a 
space,  reached  the  interior  of  the  circle.  Every  owner 
was  then  afraid  that  the  chicken  might  be  caught  by 
the  hawk.  .  The  whirling  of  the  circle  was  immediately 


870  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

stopped,  and  every  door  was  left  wide  open.  The  chicken 
with  all  his  might  ran  swiftly  out  of  the  circle.  The 
hawk  was  so  slow  in  following  that  he  was  captured  in- 
side. The  circle  began  to  whirl  again,  till,  accidentally, 
the  hawk,  struggling  for  his  escape^  made  his  way  out. 
Sometimes  the  chicken,  pursued  by  the  hawk,  entered  the 
circle,  but  immediately  ran  out  whenever  there  was 
danger  of  being  caught.  At  last  when  the  chicken  be- 
came tired,  the  hawk  caught  him. 

The  punishment  was  then  inflicted.  The  hawk 
ordered  himself  to  be  carried  on  the  shoulders  of  the 
chicken.  The  order  was  obeyed  without  delay.  After 
the  chicken  had  walked  a  few  paces  with  the  heavy  load 
on  him,  he  stopped  and  started  another  game,  choosing 
another  chicken  to  be  chased  by  the  hawk. 

— ^Leopoldo  Uichanco. 

m.    The  Story  of  Present  Day  Realism 

** Realism,"  says  Mr.  Howells,  'Ms  nothing  more  and 
nothingness  than  the  truthful  treatment  of  material." 
The  business  of  the  narrator  is  to  observe  and 
record,  he  says;  all  that  enters  into  fiction 
should  be  simple,  natural  and  honest.  The  material  must 
be  plain,  average,  everyday  humanity.  There  is  no  need 
of  a  hero  or  heroine.  There  is  no  need  of  a  plot.  The 
love  of  the  passionate  and  heroic  is  a  crude  and  un- 
wholeBome  thing. 

Following  these  tenets  there  has  grown  up  a  school 
of  writers  who  undertake  to  present  the  world  just  as 
it  is  with  no  heightening  and  no  lowering  of  color. 
They  select  bits  of  life  and  reproduce  them  exactly. 


THE  INSTRUCTIVE  GROUP  371 

The  process  is  ''not  so  muoh  photograpMc  as  micro- 
scopic/' Nothing  is  too  inane  or  commonplace.  All 
that  a  workman  needs  is  a  seeing  eye,  honesty,  and  a 
vocabulary,  say  they.  Many  of  the  sketches,  of  course, 
seem  extremely  flat,  and  the  reader  involuntarily  asks, 
^\rhy  and  wherefore!  The  answer  is  laconiO'— lif e : 
these  are  the  actual  i$roblems  of  humanity  rathelr  than 
abstract  moral  truths  or  highflown  idealism ;  the  Scab 
and  Trusty  No.  49  are  with  us  in  the  street ;  these  are 
the  Children  of  the  Public,  the  Children  of  the  Ghetto ; 
this  is  the  modern  Jungle  | ' those  are  Vignettes  of  Man^^ 
hattan;  these  are  the  feelings  of  a  maiden  lady  in  a 
Massachusetts  village;  these  are  the  happenings  of  a 
real  Wedding  Journey ;  thus  the  new-rich  btiild  houses 
in  the  Back  Bay  district  and  attempt  to  get  into 
society ;  this  is  a  Modem  Instance. 

For  source  o^  realistic  method  we. shall  need  to 
notice  again  the  atidaciotts  intimacy  of  the-  picaresque 
romance  and  the  extraordinary  minuteness  of  detail 
that  marked  the  illustrations  and  pretended  anecdotes 
of  the  controversial  pamphleteers  of  the  early  eight- 
eenth century.  Take  for  illustration  the  verisimilitude 
of  the  repetitions  and  digressions  in  the  **Tnie  Relation 
of  the  Apparition  of  Mrs.  Veal,'*  by  which  Defoe  hood- 
v^rinked  "the  public — so  completely,  in  fact,  that  critics 
are  even  no^  divided  on  the  question  as  to  whether  he 
was  or  was  not  reporting  a  real  interview.  ''Most  of  his 
contemporaries  took  the  matter  as  bona  fide  news; 
their  successors  took  it  as  invention;  and  now  Mr,' 
George  Aitken  comes  forward  with  proof  of  its  occur- 
rence; that  is,  he  maintains  that  Defoe  got — in  just  the 
way  he  says  he  got  it — ^the  written  report  of  the  actual. 


372  TYPES  OP  PB08B  NARBATIVES 

interview  with  the  person  who  saw  the  ghost.  The 
contention  only  goes  to  demon8tra4;e  that  Defoe  was  a 
great  captain  of  the  pen  who  could  sail  extremely  close 
to  life.  That  he  conld  make  romance  truer  than  fact  we 
well  know. 

Added  to  the  patient  minuteness  of  the  controver- 
sialists and  the  boldness  of  the  rogue  narrators  who 
dared  to  take  us  to  the  baek-doors  and  bed-rooms  of 
the  nobility  and  to  the  haunts  of  crim,inals,  came  later 
as  an  element  of  realistic  method,  Jane  AuAten's  home 
subjects,  non^partizansbip,  and  gentle  riuUery. 

When  ** Daisy  Miller''  was  written  a  few  decades 
ago,  the  Americans  were  incensed.  Henry  James  did 
Some  ^^*    ^^^»   bo^ven     Just,    so    we     appear 

realistic  abroad,  he  said,  aitnong  the  more  restrained 
^^^*®'*  and  more  cultivated  peoples.  Howells's 
'^Lady  of  the  Aroostook"  seemed  a  kinder  if  similar 
and  no  less  true  picture.  These  brief  narratives  are 
hardly  novels;  and  though  they  are  more  than  tales, 
they  yet  are  not  what  we  teehnically  call  the  artistic 
short-story;  they  are  surely,  however,  studies  in 
realism. 

It  is  upon  this  distinction, — ^namely,  that  absolute 
realism  would  naturally  preclude  even,  the  slight  arti- 
ficiality that  there  must  be  about  the  tppi^ly  technical 
short-story— that  we  make  two  divisions  in  our  study 
of  such  work  as  that  of  HoweUs,  James,  and  Mary  E. 
Wilkins  Freeman.  The  point  is,  realism  may  be  as 
long-drawn  out  or  as  brief  as  life.  The  technical  short- 
story,  however,  has  a  limit  on  both  sides.  So  has  the 
novel.  Each  of  our  great  realists  has  attempted  novels; 
all  have  written  exquisite  short  stories. 


THE  INSTBUCTIVE  GfiOUP  373 

To  write  a  present-day  realistic  sketch  you  will  not 
need  to  look  far  for  a  subject.  Just  divest  yourseli'  of 
preconceived  ideas  of  the  rjomantic  in  fic- 
tion, and  beg^  anywhere.  Everything  is  of  ti^^on 
interest  to  the  realist*  A  butcher's  hoy;  an  characters 
octogenarian  millionaire;  a  petty  thief;  a 
plodding,  respectable,  humdrum  government  clerk;  an 
ordinary  mother  with  her  ordinary  baby  <m  an  ordi* 
nary  day;  a  flighty  society  belle,  and  a  society  belle 
who  is  not  flighty ;  a  sensible  matron ;  an  idiot  child, — 
all  are  his*  The  interest  of  your  sketch  will  he  m  ♦the 
particularity  and  niceness  of  details.  You  will  med  tf> 
be  more  truthful  than  a  camera,  which  always  makes 
people  and  surroundings  look  either  better  or  worse 
than  they  are.  Color  and  sound  and  smell  •and  atmos-r 
phere  and  temperature,  and  temperament,  gesture  axid 
thought,  passing  impression  and  settled  purpose,  you 
can  rec(»*d.  If  any  of  your  characters  succeeds,  it  must 
be  as  in  life-**with  half  defeat ;  if  any  one-  is  defeated, 
it  must  be  as  in  lif  e-^with  half  success  and  a  cotnAictwag 
sense  of  shame  and  of  relief.  You  must  have  something 
happening,  however  slight,  and  thus  avoid  a  mere 
enumeration  of  characteristics.  You  are  to  show  UB 
the  person  in  actioli.  A  mere  analysis  of  his  vices  and 
virtues,  his  general  mental  attitude,  would  be  pure  ex- 
position, when  you  want  narrative. 

Your  diction  should  be  as  good  as  you  cm  make  it 
by  care  and  revision.  Howells  and  Jamed  are  both, 
stylists  of  the  most  polished  kind;  though  Tolstoy, 
whom  Howells  recognizes  as  master,  thirty  years  ago 
left  o£f  any  concern  for  sentence  effect.  He  repeats  or 
reiterates  at  will.    You,  however,  cannot  afford  to  dis- 


374  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NAKEATIVES 

regard  the  rules  of  the  rhetoricianfl — ^not  imtil  you  have 
become  As  famous  as  the  Bussiaa  count  or  have  a 
message  as  distinct  as  his. 

Bemember,  then^  that  a  good  realistic  sketch  de- 
mands on  your  part  an  honest  and  truthful  purpose,  a 
mind  freed  from  the  glamor  of  romance  or  climax,  a 
sure  eye,  and  exquisite  workmanship,  in  the  relation  of 
an  ordinary,  every-day  event. 

Tlie  Piece  of  String 

On  all  the  roads  leading  to  Goderville  the  peasants 
and  their  wives  were  coming  to  town  for  market  day. 
The  men  shambled  aloing  at  an  easy-gdjig  gait,  with 
bodies  bent  forward.  Theirlong  legs  were  deformed  and 
twisted  through  hard  work— irsom  the  weight  of  the 
plough,  which  at  the  same  time  throws  the  left  shoulder 
too  high  and  ruins  the  figure;  froqi  mowing  the  grain, 
which  eflPort  causes  the  knees  to  spread'  too  far  apart; 
and  from  all  the  other  slow  and  painful  labours  of 
country  life.  Their  blue  blouses,  starched  to  a  sheenlike 
varnish  and  finished  at  collar  and  waistbands  with  little 
designs  in  white  stitching,  stood  from  their  bony  bodies 
like  balloons  ready  for  flight,  with  a  head,  two  arms  and 
two  feet  protruding. 

Some  of  the  men  had  a  eow  or  calf  in  tow  at  the 
end  of  a  rope,  while  their  wives  followed  close  behind 
the  animal,  switching  it  over  the  hatuaches  with  a  leafy 
branch  to  hasten  its  pace. 

The  women  carried  large  baskets,  out  of  which  stuck 
the  heads  of  chickens  and  ducbsL  They  took  much 
shorter  and  quicker  steps  than  the  man.  Their  lanky, 
spare  figures  were  decorated  with  mean  little  shawls 


THE  INSTRUCTIVE  GROUP  375 

pinned  across  their  flat  breasts.  Each  head  bore  a  white 
linen  cover,  bound  close  to  the  hair  and  surmounted  by 
a  cap. 

Now  and  then  there  went  by  a  waggonette  drawn  by 
a  pony  oh  a  jerky  trot,  which  jostled  the  two  men  on 
the  seat  in  a  ludicrous  manner  and  made  the  woman 
at  the  end  of  the  cart  hold  the  sides  firmly  for  ease  froril 
the  rough  jolting. 

In  the  Goderville  market-place  was  a  great  crowd  of 
men  and  animals.  The  horns  of  the  cattle,  the  high,  long* 
napped  hats  of  the  well-to-do  peasants,  and  the  head* 
dresses  of  women  bobbed  aboye  the  level  of  that  crowd. 
Noisy  voices,  sharp  and  shrill,  kept  up  a  wild  and  cease* 
less  clamour,  only  outdone  now  and  then  by  a  great 
guflFaw  of  laughter  from  the  strong  lungs  of  a  jolly 
bumpkin,  or  a  prolonged  moo  from  a  cow. tied  to  the  wall 
of  some  house. 

Everywhere  it  smelled  of  stables,  of  milk  and  manure^ 
of  hay 'and  sweat.  The  air  was  redolent  with  that 
sourish,  disagreeable  odour  savouring  of  man  and  beast 
which  is  peculiar  to  the  labourers  of  the  fields. 

Master  Hauchecome,  of  Breaute,  had  just  arrived 
at  Groderville  and  was  directing  his  steps  to  the  square 
when  he  observed  on  the  ground  a  little  bit  of  string. 
Economical  like  all  true  Normans,  Master  Hauchecorne 
considered  that  anything  useful  was  worth  picking  up, 
and  he  bent  down  painfully,  for  he  suffered  from 
rheumatism.  He  picked  up  the  scrap  of  twine  from  the 
ground,  and  was  preparing  to  wind  it  up  carefully  when 
he  noticed  Master  Malandain,  the  harness-maker,  look- 
ing at  him  from 'his  doorway.  Once  they  had  a  quarrel 
over  a  halter  and  had  kept  angry  ever  since,  both  of 


376  TYPES  OF  PEOSB  NARRATIVES 

them  holding  spite.  Master  Hauehecortie  was  smitten 
with  a  certain  sense  of  shame  at  being  seen  thus  by  his 
enemy  searching  in  the  dirt  for  a  mere  bit  of  string.  He 
hastily  hid  his  find  nnder  hia  blouse,  then  in  the  pocket 
of  his  breeches^— after  which  he  pretended  to  be  still 
looking  at  his  feet  for  somethang  which  he  had  not  yet 
found.  At  length,  he  started  toward  the  market-place, 
his  body  almost  bent  double  by  his  chronic  pains. 

He  lost  himself  at  onee  in  the  alow,  clamorous  throng, 
which  was  agitated  by  perpetual  biokerings.  The  pros- 
pective buyers,  after  lookiBg  the  cows  over,  would  go 
away  only  to  return  perplexed;  always  fearing  to  be 
taken  in ;  nerer  leaxshiag.a  decision,  hwt  nairowly  watch- 
ing the  seller's,  eyes,  seeking  in  the  end  to  detect  the 
deceit  of  the  man  and  the  defect  in  his  animal. 

The  women,  having  put  their  big  baskets  at  their 
feet,  had  pulled  out  the  poultry,  which  lay  upon  the 
ground  with  legs  tied,  with  frightened  eyes  and  scarlet 
combs. 

They  listened  to  offers,  maintaining  their  prices  with 
a  sharp  air*  and  impressive  ftiee,  or  else  at  a  sweep 
accepting  a  reduced  price,  crying  after  the  customer  who 
left  reluctantly,  **It's  settled,  Antbime;  I'll  let  you  have 
them!^' 

Then,  by*  degreiss,  the  aqutire  entptied^  and,  as  the 
Angelus  struck  noon,  those  living  at  a  distance  flocked 
to  the  Inns. 

At  Jourdain^  the  dining-rootn.  was  filled  with  guests, 
as  full  as  the  great  courtyard  was  with  vehicles  of  every 
description — carts,  gigs;  waggonettes,  tilburies,  nonde- 
script jauntitg  cars,  yellow  with  mud,  misshapen, 
patched  up,  lifting  their  shafts  toh^fiAjen  lifce  two  arms, 


THE  INSTRUCTIVE  GROUP  gyy 

or  else  in  a  sorry  plight  with  nose  in  the  mud  and  back 
in  the  air. 

Right  opposite  to  where  the  diners  were  at  table,  the 
immense  fireplace,  all  brightly  aflame,  imparted  a  genial 
warmth  to  the  backs  of  the  people  ranged  on  the  right. 
Three  spits  were  turning,  loaded  with  chickens,  with 
pigeons,  and  with  legs  of  mutton;  and' a  dell<!ious  odour 
of  roast  meat  and  of  gravy  gushing 'over  roast  brown 
skin  took  wing  from  the  hearth,  kindled  good  humour, 
and  made  mouths  water. 

All  the  aristocracy  of  the  plough  were  eating  there 
at  Jourdain's,  the  inkeeper  who  dealt  in  horses — a 
shrewd  fellow,  who  had  a  goodish  penny  put  by. 

The  dishes  were  passed  and  emptied,  as  were  like- 
wise huge  jugs  of  yellow  cider.  Every  one  recounted' 
his  dealings — ^his  buying  and  selling.  They  gave  news 
of  the  crops.  The  weather  was  giood-  for  greeiis,  but 
somewhat  wet  for  wheat. 

All  at  once  a  dram  rolled  in  the  court  before  the 
house.  Almost  everybody  save  the  too  indifferent,  im- 
mediately sprang  to  their  feet  and'  ran  to  the  door,  or 
to  the  windows,  with  mouth  still  full  and  napkin  in 
hand. 

After  the  public*  crier  had  stopped  his  racket,  he 
launched  forth  in  a  jerky  voice,  making  his  pauses  at 
the  wrong  time:  . 

**Be  it  known  to  the  inhabitants  <!>f  Gt>dfetnrill^,  and  in 
general  to  all  persons  present  at  the  market,  that  there 
was  lost  this  morning  on  the  Beauzeville  l^ad,  between 
nine  and  ten  o'clock,  a  black  leather  pocketbook  contain- 
ing five  hundred  francs  and  business  papers.  You  are 
requested  to  return  it  to  t^e  mayor's  office  at  once,  op 


378  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NAKBATIVES 

to  Master  Fortune  Houlbreque,  of  Manneville.  There 
will  be  twenty  francs  reward." 

Then  the  man  went  away.  They  heard  once  more 
from  affl.r  the  dull  drum-beata  and  the  fading  voice  of 
the  crier. 

After  that,  they  began  to  discuss  this  event,  count- 
ing the  eha^ces  Master  Houlbreque  yet  had  of  recover- 
ing or  not  recovering  his  pocketbook. 

And  the  meal  went  on. 

They  were  finishing  their  coffee  when  the  corporal 
of  police  appeared  on  the  threshold. 

He  asked: 

*' Master  Hauchecorne,  of  Breaute — ^is  he  here  f  " 

Hauchecorne,  seated  at  the  other  end  of  the  table, 
answered : 

''Here  I  am." 

And  the  qorporal  resuined; 

''Master  Hauchecorne,  will  you  have  the  kindnes 
to  come  with  me  to  the  mayor's  office  ?  The  mayor  would 
like  to  speak  to  you." 

The  peasant,  surprised  and  disturbed,  tossed  off  his 
drink  and  arpse,  worse  bent  than  in  the  morning;  be- 
cause the  first  steps  after  a  rest  were  always  especially 
difficult.    He  started  off,  repeating : 

"Here  I  am;  here  I  am." 

And  he  followed  the  corporal. 

The  mayor  was.  awaiting  him,  seated  in  Tiis  official 
chair.  He  was  the  notary  of  the  place,  a  lar^e,  grave 
mai?L  of  pompous  speech. 

"Master  Hauchecornie,"  he  said,  "you  were  seen 
this  morning,  on  the  Beuzeville  road,  to  pick  up  the 
pocket-book  lost  by  Master  Houlbr0que,  of  Manneville.'' 


THE  INSTRUCTIVE  GROUP  379 

Tl^e  oountryman,  confused,  stared  at  the  mayor,  al- 
ready frightened  by  this  suspicion  attaching  to  him — 
why  he  could  not  understand. 

''I — I — ^I  picked  up  that  pocket-book T' 

''Yes,  you.'' 

''On  my  word  of  honoui:,  I  didn't  even  know  nothing 
about  it." 

"You  were  seen.-' 

"They  saw  me — me?  Who's  they  what  saw  me?" 
said  Master  Hauohecorne. 

"Master  Maladain,  the  harness-maker." 

Then  the  old  m^  remembered,  understood,  and  red- 
dened with  anger. 

"Ah!  he  saw  me,  did  he,  ihe  rascal?  He  saw  me 
pick  up  this  here  string.    Look,  your  worship." 

And,  rummaging  at  the  bottom  of  his  pocket,  he 
pulled  out  the  little  piece  of  string. 

But  the  incredulous  mayor  shook  his  head. 

"You  will  not  make  me  believe.  Master  Hauchecome, 
that  Master  Malandain,  who  is  a  man  worthy  of  all 
respect,  has  taken  this  bit  of  cord  for. a  pocket-book.". 

The  peasant,  furious,  raised  his  hand,  and  spit  at 
his  side  to  bear  witness  to  his  honour,  repeating: 

"F'r  all  that,  it's  God's  truth,  holy  truth,  your 
worship.  There!  My  soul  and  my  salvatixm  knows  it's 
true!" 

The  mayor  resumed: 

"After  having  picked,  the  article  up,  you,  even, 
searched  aloo  a  long  while  in  the.  mud  to  m,ake  ^ure  if 
money  bad  fallen  outipf  it^" 

The  good  man  choked  with  rage  and  terror. 

"If  them  can  say — if  them  can  say — such  lies  as  that 


380  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARHATIVES 

to  take  away  an  honest  man's  name!  If  them  can 
say—" 

However  he  might  protest,  he  was  not  believed. 

He  was  confronted  by  Master  Malattdain,  who  re- 
peated and  supported  his  statement.  They  railed  at 
each  other  for  an  hour.  Master  Hauchecome  demanded 
that  they  search  his  pockets.  Nothing  was  found  upon 
him. 

Finally,  the  mayor,  veiy  much  perplexed,  let  him 
go  with  the  warning  that  he  would  infoi^m  the  pubhc 
prosecutor,  and  ask  for  orders. 

The  news  had  spread  abroad.  When  he  came  out 
of  the  mayor's  office,  the  old  man  was  the  centre  of 
curiosity  and  questioning,  both  serious  and  jeering,  but 
into  which  not  the  least  resentmtot  entered.  And  he 
began  recounting  the  long  rigmarole  of  the  string.  They 
did  not  believe  him.    They  grinned. 

He  went  along,  stopped  by  every  one,  or  accosting 
his  acquaintances,  going  over  and  over  his  story  and 
his  protestations,  pointing  t6  his  pockets  turned  inside 
out  to  prove  he  had  nothing. 

They  said  to  him: 

'*Come  now,  you  old  rascal!" 

And  h^  became  angry,  exasperated,  feverish,  dis- 
consolate at  bteiiig  doubted,  and  forever  telling  his  story. 

Night  fell.  It  became  time  to  go  home.  He  started 
out  with  three  of  his  neighbour!^,  to  whom  he  pointed 
out  thd  spot  where  he  had  picked  up  the  bit  of  string; 
and,  all  along  the  Toad,  he  redited  hfe  adventure. 

That  evening  he  made  a  round  of  the  village  of 
Br^aute  so  as  to '  tell  everyone.  He  found  only  un- 
,  believers. 


THE  INSTRUCTIVE  GROUP  381 

He  ^as  ill  of  it  all  through  the  sdgbt. 

The  next  day  about  one  in  the  afternoon,  Marius 
Paum^e,  a  farm  helper  of  Master  Breton^  the  market- 
gardener  ,at  Ymauville,. returned  the. poe^t-book  and  its 
contents  to  Master  Houlbreque  of  Manneville. 

This,  man  maintained  he  had  fouad  it  on  thia  road, 
but,  not  knowing  how  to  jpead,  had  carried  it  home  and 
turned  it  over  to  his  master. 

The  news  i^read  to  the  suburbs.  Maj^ter,  Hauehe- 
come  was  informed.  Immediately  he  set  himself  the 
task  of  going  about  relating  his  story,  capping  it  with 
this  climax.    He  was  triumphant. 

**What  hurt  me  the  mostest,"  he  said,  '*waa  not  the 
thing  itself,  don't  you  see,  but  the  lies.  Nothing  hurts 
so  as  when  lies  's  toh}  about  you.'' 

All  day  long  he  talked  of  his  adventure.^  He  told  it 
on  the  rojEtds  to  the  people  passing,  at  the  tavern  to 
people  who  were  drinking,  and  tiien  to  the  people  coming 
out  of  church  the  next  Sunday.  He  eiven  stopped 
strangers  to  tell  them  the  tale.  He  felt  relieved  by  this 
time,  yet  something  troubled  hijtn  without  his  knowing 
just  what  it  was.  People  had  a  mocking  manner  as  they 
lijstened. 

They  did  not  appear  convinced.  He  almost  felt  their 
tattle  behind  bis  back.  ,  . 

Tuesday  of  the  next  week,  he  went  to  the  GodervUlfe 
market,  solely  impeliled  by  the  need  of  reoountiiig  his 
affair. 

Malandain,  standing  in  his  doorway,  began  to  laugh 
as  he  saw  him  pass.     For  what  ? 

He  accosted  a  farmer  of  Criquetot  who  did  not  per- 
mit him  to  finish,  but,  landing  him  a  thump  in  the  pit 


382  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NABBATIVES 

of  the  stomach,  cmd  in  his  face,  '*Get  out,  you  great 
rogue!"    Then  he  turned  on  his  heel. 

Master  Hauchecome,  altogether  abashed,  grew  more 
and  more  disturbed.  Why  had  he  been  dubbed  *'a  great 
rogue?" 

When  seated  at  table  in  Jourdain's  tavern,  he  again 
began  to  explain  the  partieulars. 

A  Montvilliers  horse-dealer  yelled  at  him: 

** Don't,  tell  me,  you  old  fox!  I  know  your  piece  of 
string  yam!" 

Hauchecome  stammered,  ''B — ^b — ^but  it's  found,  the 
pocket-book!" 

To  which  the  other  retorted: 

** That  11  do,  daddy!  There's  one  who  finds,  and 
another  who  gives  up.    Neither  is  no  one  the  wiser." 

The  peasant  was  choked  off.  At  last  he  understood. 
They  accused  him  of  having  had  the  pocket-book  re- 
turned by  a  crony — ^by  an  accomplice. 

He  tried  to  protest.  The  whole  table  started  to 
laugh. 

He  could  not  finish  his  meal,  and  took  his  leave 
amidst  their  mocking  and  derision. 

^  He  returned  to  his  home,  ashamed  and  indignant, 
stifled  with  rage,  with  confusion ;  all  the  more  dejected 
because,  with  his  Norman  cunning,  he  was  capable  of 
having  done  what  they  accusied  him  of,  and  even  of 
bragging  of  it  as  a  good  trick.  His  innocence  vaguely 
appeared  to  him  as  impossible  to  prove ;  his  roguery  was 
too  well  known.  And  he  felt  struck  to  the  heart  by  the 
injustice  of  the  suspicion. 

Again  he  commenced  to  tell  of  his  adventure ;  every 
^av  its  recital  lengthened,  each  time  containing  new  • 


THE  INSTRUCTIVE  GROUP  383 

proofs,  more  energetic  protestations,  and  more  solemn 
oaths  which  he  prepared  in  his  solitary  hours.  His  mind 
was  altogether  occupied  by  the  story  of  the  piece  of 
string.  He  was  believed  all  the  less  as  his  defense  grew 
more  complicated  and  his  arguments  more  artful. 

*'Now,  those  are  the  proofs  of  a  liar,"  they  said  be- 
hind his  back. 

He  felt  this.  It  consumed  his  strength.  He  ex- 
hausted himself  in  useless  efforts. 

He  went  into  a  visible  decline. 

'  The  jokers  now  made  him  detail  the  story  of  '*Tbe 

Piece  of  String*'  to  amuse  them,  just  as  you  x)ersuade  a 

soldier  who  has  come  through  a  campaign  to  tell  his 

version  of  a  battle.    At  last  his  mind  began  to  give  way. 

Near  the  end.  of  December  he  took  to  his  bed. 

He  died  the  first  week  in  January,  and,  in  the  de- 
lirium of  the  throes  of  death  he  protested  his  innocence, 
repeating,  '*  A  little  piece  of  string~Uttle  piece  of  string 
— ^see,  here  it  is,  your  worship." 

— ^Henri  Ren6  Albert  Guy  de  Maupassant. 

" Little  Mafiteriweces  of  Fiction,"  Vol.  VI  (Doubteday,  Page 
So    Co.). 

A  Social  Error 

The  little  kindergarten  teacher  turned  hastily  from 
tlxe  office  win4ow* 

/'Miss  Adams,"  she  said  abruptly,  **I'm  worried." 

The  ''Lady  Head"  looked  up  from  her  ledger. 

"Worried,"  she  repeated,  with  an  odd  little  smile, 
**are  you  ever  anything  so  plebeian?" 

The  other  woman  tossed  her  chin  impatiently. 
*' Really,  Miss  Adams,"  she  said  stiflQy,  "I  wish  you 


384  TYPES  OP  PBOSE  NARBATIVES 

had  given  that  claas  of  Italians  to-*-well,  anyone  but 
Caroline." 

The  lady  at  the  desk  stiffened  perceptibly. 

**And  why  not?'*  she  inquired  tersely.  *'You  cer- 
tainly must  be  aware  that  the  reason  I  ehose  Caroline 
to  M  the  Vacancy  was  becauae  I  thou^t  her  fitted— 
particularly  fitted,"  she  added,  with  deliberate  em- 
phasis. 

The  little  woman  looked  down  at  her  excited  chief 
with  a  quietly  speculative  smile. 

^'Do  you  think,"  she  said  slowly,  ^^that  Caroline  has 
the  real  social  instinct?" 

The  Lady  Head  was  becoming  annoyed. 

^'One  might  think,"  adie  snapped,.' 'that  the  training 
Caroline  has  received  in  her  own  home  would  amply 
fit  her  to  meet — " 

*' Any  of  the  men  of  her  own  set,"  interrupted  the 
other  woman.  ''But  as  for  managing  a  club  of  hot- 
headed Italians — " 

"Wellj  doesn't  ahe  manage  themS"  reiterated  the 
woman  at  the  desk,  half  rising  from  her  low  chair.  '*! 
should  like  to  have  you  name  a  club  that  is  more  orderly 
— more — " 

"Indeed,  it  is  orderly  enough,"  admitted  the  little 
kindergartner. 

"There!"  sniffed  the  Lady  Head  triumphantly,  then 
with  a  sudden  chan^'df  tone,  "I  really  do  not  under- 
stand your  objection.    As  for  the  boy s^— they  adore  her !'' 

"That  is  where  the  trouble  lies."  The  little  kinder- 
gartner  leaned  forward  over  the  desk  and  her  voice  was 
very  serious.  "Miss  Adams, '^^  she  began  slowly,  "you 
shave  been  here  five  weeks — I  have  worked   in   this 


THE  INSTRUCTIVE  GROUP  386 

district  for  fifteen  years.  I  know  every  boy  and  girl, 
every  man  and  woman,  who  comes  to  this  house.  And 
1  also  know"—  the  speaker  paused  impressively — *Hhat 
when  a  girl  who  is  as  young  and  as  good-looking  as 
Caroline  treats  the  young  men  of  her  club  with  the  same 
informality  that  she  would  show  to  the  callers  in  her 
father's  home — ^believe  me,  there  will  be  disastrous  eon- 
sequences." 

''Do  you  mean — ^Dd  you  dare— -^  the  Lady  Head's 
lifted  eyebrows  completed  her  question. 

This  little  kindergartner  stood  firm.  '*I  think 
Caroline  should  iie  warned,"  she  insiiSted  quietly.  '*Her 
Italians  are  so  young — so  hot-bloo<(Jed,  and  I'm  afraid 
she  has  been  encou5»aging  them  k  little,  too—" 

''Nonsense!"  th^  oth^r  woman  sprang  quickly  to  her 
feet.  "I  have  never  heard  anything  so  ridiculous — so 
utterly  preposterous !  Do  my  years  of  experience  count 
for  nothing  in  comparison  with  yourst  Am  I  entirely 
lacking  in  good  judgment — ^in  common  sense  t  My  dear 
woman,  I  have  always  made  friends  of  my  club  boys, 
invited  them  to  my  home— even  young  anarchists !  Pall- 
ing in  love  With  her!  Preposterous!"  She  paused  for 
a  moment  breathless,  and  then  began  a  fresh  onslaught. 

*'If  Carbline  has  not  sufficient  t^t — "^ 

A  girl's  blonde  head  apj)eared  in  the  office  doorway. 

* '  Did  you  call  lAeV*  she  lisped  sweetly.  *  *  I  was  pass- 
ing through  the  hall  and  I  thought  I  heard  my  name 
spoken.'*  She  paused,  with  a  questioning  glance  at  the 
two  women. 

The  LadyH^^d  was  the  first  to  reeover  her  com- 
posure, and  she  rustled  across  the  room  with  outstretched ' 
handd.    ** My  dear  Caf<)line,"  she  said.    "We  Were  just 


386  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NABKATIVES 

speaking  of  you — and  your  charming  little  club/'  she 
added,  with  a  side  glance  at  her  assistant. 

The  girl  threw  back  her  dark  furs  with  a  smile. 
'*How  good  of  you,"  she  said  gratefully.  '*I'm  fright- 
fully late  to-day,  but  to-night  is  our  party,  and  I  stopped 
down  town  for  the  boys.'' 

The  Lady  Head  patted  the  girl's  plump  fingers. 
**Are  you  going  to  dance,  too?"  she  inquired. 

The  girl  laughed.  ^  ^  Indeed  I  am«  But  I  really  don't 
know  how  I'm  going  to  manage  it.  The  boys  are  all  so 
jealous,  and  Tony — oh,  Tony  is  the  grandest  dancer!" 

She  flitted  out  of  the  tiny  office,  and  the  two  women 
watched  her  as  she  climbed  the  broad  stairs  followed 
closely  by  her  chattering,  gesticulating  pupils. 

As  the  last  peal  of  laughter  floated  down,  over  the 
balusters  the  little  kindergartner  turned  to  the  Lady 
Head. 

**Yon  see?"  she  said  simply. 

The  Lady  Head  turned  upon  her  a  sweet,  uncompre- 
hending smile.    **I  think  it  is  lovely!"  she  breathed. 

The  night  lamp  burned  steadily  in  the  office  of  the 
settlement.  The  wind  howled  through  the  deserted 
street,  flinging  the  rain  in  noisy  gusts  against  the  window 
panes  and  shrieking  dismally  down  the  empty  corridors. 
From  somewhere  on  the  floor  above  came  the  rhythmic 
bagging  pf  a  piano  and  the  shuffle  and  stamp  of  daneing 
feet. 

.  The  Lady  Head  closed  her  book  with  a  yawn. 

**What  a  stupid  evening,"  she  sighed.  The  kinder- 
garten teacher  laid. down  her  sewing  and  walked  slowly 
to  the  window. 

'*The  elements  aye  attempting  to  enliven  things," 


THE  INSTEUCTIV:E  GROUP  387 

she  remarked  dryly  as  she  lifted  the  heavy  curtains. 
Even  as  she  spoke  there  was  a  blinding  flash,  a  click  and 
the  house  was  dark. 

Up  stairs  the  music  ceased,  there  was  a  confused  mur- 
naixp  of  voices — a  shout — a,  crash — ^and  a  woman's  scream. 
The  lights  come  on  again — the  two  women  turned,  their 
faces  ashen,  and  hastened  up  the  long  stairs. 

A  pale-faced  girl  was  crouched  against  the  farther 
wall  of  the  big  gymnasium.  At  her  feet  sprawled  the 
limp  body  of  a  man,  and  behind  her  a  swarthy  black- 
browed  girl  was  struggling  in  the  grasp  of  two  stalwart 
Italians  who  were  trying  to  wrest  something  from  her 
frantic  fingers.  Her  hands  relaxed  as  the  two  women 
appeared  \n  the  door,  and  a  shining  bit  of  steel  flew 
across  the  room  and  tinkled  on  the  floor  at  the  feet  of  the 
Lady  Head.  She  picked  it  up  grimly  and  pushed  her 
way  to  the  center  of  the  crowd.  The  girl  by  the  wall 
sprang  to  her  feet  with  a  wild  shriek,  but  the  woman 
turned  on  her  savagely. 

' '  Hush ! ' '  she  hissed,  ' '  you  little  fool ! ' '  Then  to  the 
erowd,  *'What  does  this  mean?"  she  demanded  sternly. 
'  *  What  does  this  mean  V 

A  young  Italian,  who  stood  at  one  side  nursing  his. 
slashed  knuckles,  was  the  spokesman.  ^ 

*  *  Him—^"  with  a  wave  towards  the  man  on  the  floor — 
*h.e's  Toi^y  De  Sil',  and  her''— the  gesture  included  th^ 
lysterical  girl — ''She  dance  with  Ton'  allTa-time." 

'*And  she?"  The  Lady  Head  looked  toward  the 
[taUan  girl  whos^  stiletto  she  was  holding  gingerly  be- 
:ween  her  fingers. 

*'Her?" — the  nari^ator  pointed  a  laconic  forefinger. 
*  She's  Tony's  girl" 


388  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NABRATIVES 

When  the  weeping  Caroline  had  been  sent  home  in 
her  father's  carriage,  and  when  the  ambulance  had 
creaked  out  through  the  gateway,  the  Lady  Head  turned 
to  her  little  assistant. 

**If  there  are  any  fatal  results  from  this — ^this 
criminal  bit  of  negligence,"  she  stated  coldly,  "I  shall 
hold  you  personally  responsible.  You  should  have  in- 
formed me  of  this  long  ago.  Remember,  you  have  been 
here  fifteen  years!" 

—Ida  P.  Treat. 

The  Lot  of  tlie  Poor 

Two  women  were  walking  with  rapid  but  tired  steps 
down  one  of  the  most  disreputable  streets  in  the  city. 

**My,"  said  the  tallest  one,  turning  up  the  collar  of 
her  threadbare  coat,  ** don't  this  wind  make  you  feel  like 
you  was  dressed  in  your  bones?" 

The  other  woman,  who  was,  if  possible,  more  shabby- 
looking,  pushed  her  red  gloveless  hands  deeper  into  her 
pockets. 

^*Yes,  and  I  forgot  to  wear  my  sables  to-day,  ain't 
it  too  bad?"  she  returned  in  a  dreary  tone,  whose  irony 
was  somewhat  modified  by  the  chattering  of  her  teeth. 

**Mary  Jane,  you  just  quit  talkin'  like  that,''  burst 
out  the  other,  evidently  the  older  of  the  two.  "You 
didn't  nevei'  use  to  be  that  way  before  you  eommenc't 
workin'  out  by  the  day.  Why  you  was  the  joUiest  girl 
in  the  factory  and  allays  made  the  best  of  everything: 
but  now  nothin'  is  evef  good  enotigh  for  you.  Of  course 
none  of  us  would  mind  having  things  a  little  better, 
but  as  far  ai^  I  can  see,  things  have  allays  beien  this  way 
«^^+h  us  and  allays  will  be,  wishin'  or  no  wishin'." 


THE  INSTEUGTIVE  GROUP  389 

''I  ain't  sayin'  they  i^n't^'VMary  Jane  said  shortly. 

*  *  Weli,.  I  knpw  it,  you  ain  't  sayin '  nothin '  j  that 's  just 
the  trouble.  I  wish  y9[U  'd  tell  me  what 's  the  matter  with 
you,  Maiy  Jane.  'Tfiin't  natural  for  a  girl  like  you  to 
be  8Q  dull  and  sulky." 

'/t.'Tain't  natural,;  <jlid  you  say?"  flared  up  the  other. 
"  'Tain't  natural  to  wonder  why  the  lady  you  work  for 
wears  ailkst  and  matins,  while  your  own  clothes  are  almost 
too  ragged  to. cover  you?  Ain't  it  natural,"  she  asked 
with  bldzipg  Qyes,  '*to  want  to  tear  a  few  silks  oflf  of  her 
back: to  coyer  ypnr  pwn?  You  ain't  never  seen  nice 
things  iiear.  you^  Ann.  .You've  allays  worked  in  the 
factor ;  SQ.  whjat  fdo  yQU  know  about  such  things  1  I  tell 
you,  if  you  worfeed  in  one.  of  those  palaces  on  Fifth  Ave- 
nue all  df^y.and  tl^^n  cQ^Ie.b^ck  to  this  at  night,  you'd 
see  tbe.diffi^nsuce." 

*' Don't  you  a'pose  I've  seen  swell  things  and 
people?"  remonsti'at^  the  older  woman.  **I  ain't  no 
fool;  but  I've ' r^^aoujed  put  that  there's  a  few  people 
meant  to  be  ri(^b>  and  the  rest  of  us  ain't,  that's  all ! " 

* 'But;  it, ain't,  ai  f^w  .p^q[pl^,.Aynn..  It  seems  like  most 
eveliybody  had.ple^ty  to .e^t  ,and  wear  but  us.  Why  ain 't 
we  in  it,  too? :  Why  xion't  I  live  in  that  fine  house  where 
I  work  instead^^f  dpiwn  in  this  hole  ?  It  seems  like  we  'd 
been^qh^ted  somewhere;  but  Is 'pose  there  ain't  no  use 
talkdnfajboutit^   j^opd-^ight." 

Ann  watched.  1^  girl ^ she, climbed  .the  rickety  stepfj 
of  tha  ''palaoe"  which  fate  had  ajssigned  to  heir. . 

* '  They  f re  all  that,  way  J^pu^ti^aes.  I  remember— weU, 
Ae'U  get  uij^d  to  it  like  aU  ^he.reejt;  of  us." 

......  ..—Agnes  Pabuer. 


390  TYPES  OP  PROSte  NARBATIVES 

Filipino  Fear. 

One  cloudy  afternoon  when  a  heavy  rain  seemed 
swaying  back  and  forth  in  a  thick  mist  which  was  then 
lowering,  and  long  red  streaks  of  lightning  followed  by 
loud  rolling  thunder  seemed  trying  to  break  the  mist  to 
let  the  rain  fall,  there  were  in  a  little  nipa  house  in  the 
country  below,  among  aged  coeoanut  palms,  two  lonely 
persons  suffering  from  superstition  and  fear  of  the  extra- 
ordinary phenomena  that  surrounded  them. 

The  house  was  just  big  enough  for  the  two.  Its  roof, 
windows  and  sides  were  made  of  cogon.  The  floor  and 
door  were  made  of  narrow  bamboo  strips  nailed  side  by 
side.  In  one  comer  of  the  room  on  a  bed,  made  also  of 
bamboo,  sat  a  boy  of  eight.  There  was  in  the  expressioD 
and  look  of  the  boy  a  feeling  of  unknown  fear  mingled 
with  surprise,  because  his  father,  a  lusty  old  sui>erstitioT]s 
man,  who  was  then  holding  a  blunt  stick,  had  driven  their 
domestic  creatures  from  the  house  to  the  open  field  where 
there  was  no  means  of  securing  shelter  from  the  heavy 
rain,  whose  first  large  drops  were  now  clattering  on  the 
leaves.  The  boy  had  a  kind  disposition,  especially  toward 
his  pets — a  sense  that  he  had  inherited  from  his  father. 
This  was  the  first  time  that  he  had  seen  his  father  aet 
thus  unkindly  toward  their  animals.  His  surprise  was 
much  increased  when  he  saw  his  father  dash  at  the 
windows  and  doors  and  fling  everyone  of  them  open,  then 
retreat  to  the  middle  and  look  sideways.  He  saw  him 
draw  a  long  agitated  breath.  Then,  seeming  to  have  re- 
covered his  wits,  he  hastened  toward  one  of  the  windows 
and  took  from  the  outside  a  portion  of  a  dried  cocoanot 
leaf.  He  cut  two  long  narrow  strips  from  it  and  made 
them  into  loops.    After  placing  one  around  his  neck,  he 


THE  INSTRUCTIVE  GROUP  391 

attered  a  short  prayer.  He  then  handed  the  other  lo(^ 
to  his  still  amazed  child  and  said,  ^' Wear  this,  dear  child, 
around  thy  neck.'* 

**Why,  father f'  inquired  the  innocent  boy,  **can 
this  protect  me  J'* 

'*Yes,  child,  pi^ayer  and  that  alone  can  save  ns/' 
''What  has  this  in  it,  father f    It  seems  to  me  to  be 
nothing  but  a  piece  of  cocoanut  leaf.    Isn't  itf  said  the 
boy. 

' '  It  is  a  strip  from  a  cocoanut  leaf,  but — ^it  has — *' 
**If  so,  th^i,''  interrupted  the  acute  boy,  ''why  can't 
these  palms  around  us  that  bear  these  leaves  protect 
themselves  against  the  elements.  I  have  often  seen^ 
father,  palms  bumed  to  their  very  stalks,  which  older 
people  told  me  had  been  struck  by  lightning.  Where  did 
jrou  get  this  strip,  father^'* 

"Well,  I  got  this  from  a  bunch  of  leaves  whidi  is 
tied  just  below  our  front  window,"  pointing  to  the  place, 
'  together  #vith  some  live  leaves.  That  bunch  you  your- 
self carried  to  the  church  two  ydars  ago  when  your 
mother  was  yet  living.  You  have  never  peeped  into 
church  since  then.  But  once  a  year  in  town  the  mass  ol 
;he  Sunday  immediately  before  Past  Friday  is  dedicated 
:o  palm  and  ^live  leaves.  Hundreds  of  children  like 
.roll  crowd  the  church  on  that  day  carrying  with  them 
heir  bunch  of  leaves,  and  while  the  service  is  being  cele- 
>rated  they  will  joyfully  shake  them.  After  holy  water 
las  been  sprinkled  on  the  leaves,  then  they  are  holy,  and 
t  is  not  pious  to  play  with  them.  After  the  mass  the 
iixxich  of  leaves  is  to  be  tied  to  the  door  or  to  the  window 
*f  the  house  as  a  protection  from  thunder  and  lightning. 
)n  day»  of  this  kind  every  one  wears  a  strip  of  these 


892  TYPES  OF  PBOaE  NABBATIVES 

leaves  aromid  lus  neok.  When  you  go  out  again,  you 
may  look  at  the  windows  of  the  hduses  to  see  if.  what  I 
say  is  true.'* 

Indeed;  tiitose  bunches  of  palms  and  olive  leaves  are 
marked  characteristics  of  typical  Filipino  houses.  The 
leaves  are  usually  tied  or  wound  in  atrtistic  ways,  with 
beautiful  hangings  on  them. .  All  the  decorations,  how- 
ever, are  composed  of  the  same  kind  of  leaves. 

The  boy  was  quite  satisfied  at  his  father's  story. 
Af  tei*  a  little  reflection  he  .rem^nbered  that  he  had  truly 
carried  such  leaves  to  church.  The  rain  was  then  falling 
fast,  and  the  lightning  and  thunder  still  followed  one 
another  in  rapid  succession.  The  cold  winds  from  out- 
side and  the  fearful  sight  of  the  brilliant  flashes  made 
the  boy  shrink.  ■ 

**I  am  cold,  father,  and  I  fear  those  long  and  fieiy 
aig?iag  paths  whi(th  the  whip  of  theidriver  of  that  rolling 
thunder  is  making  in  heaven.  I  wonder  why  you  don't 
shut  those  windows,''  said  the  bby.  ^ 

.  * '  Never,  my  son,  for  there  is  ;da»ger'  in  ediutting  them. 
Bemember  that  the  thunder  will  pass  thru  anything  and 
bum  that' which  dares  ohstruet  its  way.  Besides,  my 
grandfather  told  me  that  days  of  this  kind  are  rare,  for 
they  are  diays  for  seourgittg  foul  things  <mi  earth.  If  we 
abut:  ourselves  up  here,  Bathala,i  the  nlder  of  the  earth, 
who  watches  and  sees  all  things,  done,  may  «uspeet  that 
we  are  hidiiig  sbmething-foulr'and  so  send  his  acourger 
here  to  ptuiish'US." 

The  young^  listener  who  wa&  attetitive  to  the  story  of 
his  father  started  upi  at  a  suddedi  and  astounding  crash 
of  thuEider*  ;He  curded  himself  up.  in  tiae  lap  of  his 
.^tther^  folded  his.  armsu  around  bis  Jather's  neqk,  and 


THE  INSTBUGTI'VIE.iG^EiO.UP.  393 

simt  lus  ej^es;'  After*  s^  T^hil^  be  uoptinUodj  **Aii4,  there- 
fore, ^very  foul  deed  otj  6arth  .\fi]l  be  pimished ?.'' 

**lf;e»,  eveirythuig  *£o^;  sa.  mm  oup  pi?overb::;  *Debt 
lUTBst  be  paid.'  If  you  <Jommit  a  sin  you  muftt  be  pimr 
ishedi  Aceordiagi  to^  fibe-nat^Uire:  of  your  rin."  '' 

TheJearfjill  peal  of  thujader  thftt  kad  so  firightened  the 
boy  ivas  ttievlast.  It  siknoed.  the  fury  ^  of  tba  weather^ 
The  raifii.was.  falling  lightly  toiov  aiid  sheets  of  fir-e  were 
distiagudshed  only  from  afar,;  but  no  more  thut^r 
sbiluaded.  The.  boy  Was  dropping  off  into  a  light  slumber 
wh^.he  heard*  hid  kitty  raew.  ■  He  c^p^ued  bis  eyes  aud 
saw'  hfa;  pet  irery..  wet  :aaad  Qoldj  He  pitied  the  little 
creature,  i»©':h<fc  .said  aliaostiwith  tears,  **I  wish,  father^ 
you  had  not  been  i^o  unkind  to  our  anijpaals,  our  sole 
friendfe"  in  .this  solitary' place. :  Sefe  what  you  have  done. 
You  have/dt*iven  therii  out  in  the  rain  where  rthey  Kjould 
get  no  shelter;  aaaid  now  every  paa^  of  theoaa  is  wet  and 
shivering."      .        t  ,,.   . 

VNow,  don-t'worry.  abQ^tithem,  my  bQy,",said  Wl 
father  rather  moved  by  his  filial  aj>peftl,  **they  ar^not 
hurt  at  all.  I  drove  them  away,  i¥>t  bee^ause  I  was  cross 
or:uaifckBtdj  but  biecau^e  it  is^npt  safe^tokeep  theai/i^icfe 
on  sUch  ^  stormy  day  as  .this-  .  For  thunder  is  likely  tp 
strike  i  them.  Boys  fOf  your  age  ^r^  likely  to  be  harined 
by  such  ailimalsi  For  to  some  of  them  thunder  imparts 
its  explosive  power;  And  sometimes  thunder  tajk^s^th^ 
form  of  animals..  Here  isia  story  that  has  beep;  toJd  to 
me  by  many  and'  which  they,  believe  true. 

**  *Onee  there  .wafe  a  boy  riding  oji.a  carabao  on  a 
stormy  day.  He  was  hurrying:  hoj!i:^e  lest  the  rain  8houl4 
catch  hiUiy'but  when  he  was  near  home  he  caught  sight 
of  a  small  pig  wandering  aimlessly  down  the  road.    It 


394  TYPES  OP  PBOSE  NARRATIVES 

waa  very  fat  and  very  tame.  The  boy  dismounted  from 
the  carabao  and  tried  to  catch  the  pig,  but  when  he  was 
yet  quite  a  long  way  oflf  from  it  the  animal  ran  against 
a  tree  and  there  was  a  loud  sound  of  thunder.  The  tree 
ignited.  The  boy  fell  down  unconscious  and  was  slightly 
hurt.  He  recovered  only  at  home.  His  story  has  been 
told  and  retold  ever  since.  It  was  said  that  if  that  boy 
had  caught  the  animal  and  it  had  received  a  jar  while 
in  the  boy  *s  arms  it  would  have  burst  like  thunder  and 
so  burned  the  boy.  But  if  the  boy  had  safely  carried  it 
home  and  treated  it  with  a  vinegar  bath  the  explosive 
power  would  have  been  gone  and  the  animal  would  have 
been  the  best  kind  of  food  on  earth.'  Old  men  say  that 
such  animals  are  fruits  of  thunder.*' 

"Oh,  then,  it  would  not  be  so  bad  after  all,  fatiier.  I 
might  try  to  catch  one  some  time,"  said  the  boy. 

**That  y6u  must  not,"  said  the  father  stendy. 

**But  is  that  true,  father,  that  the  fungi  which  we 
find  abounding  in  bamboo  groves  are  the  flowers  caused 
by  thunder  t"  said  the  boy  inquisitively. 

**Yes,  my  son,  truly,  and  that's  why  they  are  very 
delicious.  You  can't  find  them  growing  except  after 
stormy  days  and  after  thunder  and  lightning.  After 
days  of  lightning  and  thunder  like  the  present,  groups  of 
women  and  boys  may  be  seen  roaming  about  the  country 
in  search  of  these  delicious  flowers  for  their  food.** 

6y  this  time  the  storm  was  over.  The  two  prepared 
their  supper,  since  it  was  already  evening.  After  eating 
they  went  to  bed  feeling  secure  in  the  efficacy  of  the 
palm  leaves  hung  in  the  door. 

— ^Walfrido  de  Leon. 


CHAPTER  VI 
THE  ARTISTIC  GROUP:  THE  REAL  SHORT-STORY 

The  short-story  as  a  production  of  an  artist  con- 
scious of  rules  and  striving  for  definite  effects  within 
limitations  is  a  thing  of  the  nineteenth  century.  Only 
gradually  have  writers  come  to  the  feeling  for  single- 
ness and  unity.  It  would  appear  that  before  the  days 
of  Poe  and  Maupassant  brief  narratives  were  brief  be- 
cause of  their  source  or  their  type,  or  because  the 
author  did  not  happen  to  have  a  rich  vein  of  digression 
and  incident.  They  were  then  rather  what  we  think  of 
as  tales  than  what  we  have  come  to  regard  as  the  real 
short-story. 

We  have  hitherto  in  our  study  been  making  little  or 
no  distinction  in  our  use  of  the  terms  narrative,  story, 
and  tale,  nor  have  we  understood  the  adjective  short 
with  any  but  its  usual  significance.  "We  shall  from 
now  on,  however,  understand  the  term  short-story 
technically,  and  employ  the  hyphen,  as  Matthews  has 
employed  it,  to  suggest  the  significance. 

A  short-story  is  very  perceptibly  shorter  than  a 
romance  or  a  novel.  It  is  indeed  about  like  a  chapter 
of  one  of  these.  In  no  case  must  the  reading  require 
more  than  one  sitting,  says  Poe.  On  the  other  hand, 
it  may  not  be  so  short  as  an  ordinary  incident  or  anec- 

395 


396  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NABBATIVES 

dote,  but  far  longer.  It  is  more  complex,  more  digni- 
fied, and  has  distinguishing  essential  elements. 

It  is  not  possible,  of  course,  to  make  a  hard  and  fast 
definition,  but  there  are  certain  qualities  we  pretty 
generally  expect  to  find.  A  short-story  may  be  of  any 
type  from  a  myth  'to  a*  realistic  Sketch ;  it  may  empha- 
size environment,  plot,  or  character ;  but  it  must  have 
unity,  it  must  have  directness,  it  must  have  climai, 
however  slight.  The  effect  should  be  single,  not 
multiple.  Hence  anything  like  digression  or  episode  is 
entirely  out  of  place.  The  end  should  not  be  delayed, 
nor  yet  should  it  be  precipitated.  It  should  come  just 
at  the  right  time,  and  be  as  proper  as  the  catastrophe 
of  a  tragedy.  It  should  He  but  the  beginning  made 
special  and  concrete,  the  middle  continued  in  harmony, 
the  conclusion  come  upon  both  inevitably.  **Make 
another  end  to  itT'  says  Stevenson^  in  answering  an 
objection  to  one  of  his  stories,  **Ah,  yes,  but  that's 
not  the  way  I  write ;  the  whole  tale  is  implied ;  I  never 
use  an. effect  when  X  can  help  it  unless  it  prepares  the 
effects  that  are  to  follow ;  that 's  what  a  story  consists 
in.  To  make  another  end ;  that  is  to  make  the  begin- 
ning all  wrong.  The  denouement  of  a  long  story  is 
nothing,  it  is  just  ^a  full  close,'  which  you  may  ap- 
prpach  and  accompany  as  you  please — ^it  is  a  coda,  not 
an  essential  number  in  the  rhythm;  but  the  body  and 
end  of  a  short-story  is  bone-of-the-bone  and  blood-of- 
the-blood  of  the  beginning." 

Student^  of  this  type  of  narrative  find  Poe  the  first 
man  to  reveal  a  consciousness  of  any  strictly  limiting 


*  *  *  Vailima  Letters, ' '  I.,  p.  14.7,  quoted  by  Matthews. 


THE  MITISTIO  GROUP  397 

tenets.  Pqe  Worked  to  definite' rules  which  he  himself 
made.  H^  «aw  intripsic  reasons  why  a  short-story 
should  be  short.  His  predecessors,  Irving  and  others, 
had  not  se^a  them^  £v.en  Hawthorne,  who  falfiUed- 
them  many  times,  said  nothing  about  them.  Bat  Po& 
both  formulated  and.pj:eached  thepi.  He  exemplified 
them,  too,  and  other  men  followed. 

The  list  of  good  short-8t6iy  writers  is  so  great  that 
particular  memtioia  of  any  ilieeims  invidious.  Some  of 
our  less  known  meci  have-dene  as  good  work  as  our 
best.  For  names  by.  countries,  you  may  notice  the 
bibliography  at  the  end  of  this  book.  Kipling's  storieis 
for  a  large  part  emphasize  place;  Poe's,  very  often 
plot;  and  Hawthorne's  and  Steveason's,  mostly  psy- 
chological pfajenomena — chaaracter  and  whimsical  ex- 
pressions of  it;.M5ss  ^ilkins's  altogether  reveal  tem- 
perament and  eharaeteristics ;  while  Maupassant's  gen- 
erally record  events  which  include  a  stab  of  fate. 

On  the  basis  of  artistic  purpose,  the  short-story 
divides  itself  into  threi  types:  the  weird  tale,  stories 
that  emphasize  environmtot  and  typical  personality, 
stories  that  emphasize  events  and  character. 

Bvfery  narrator:  whenever  he-  sets  his  pen  to  paper 
must  deal  with  plaoe,  plot,  and.  people;  histt  the  artistic 
short-story  writer,  because  of  the  limitation  of  his  form, 
is  forced  to  a  Selectictn  of  emphasis.  He  can  not. at  will, 
as  the  biographer  oain,  dilate  upon  the  ancestry  of  his 
hero  if  he  nkeans.  to  present  the  personage  in  action ; 
if  he  wants  to  indulge  in  an  environment  analysis,  the 
short-story*  iwriter  has  not  time  to  wind  up  and  unwind 
a  mystery ;  if  he  has  decided  to  give. us  the  crisis  event 
of  a  character,  he  must  pef-fpree  touch  but  lightly  on 


398  TYPES  OF  PB06E  KABRATIVES 

plaee.  We  shall  find,  then,  that  while  each  good  short- 
story  has  the  three  elements  present  and  skilfally 
managed,  it  has  also  one  or  the  other  more  strongly 
emphasized — or  at  most  two,  m  practical  neglect  of 
the  third. 

L    The  Psychological  Weird  Tale 

Oar  idea  of  the  required  form  of  the  weird  tale  has 
come  to  be  that  of  the  modem  artistic  short-story;  but 
all  the  elements  of  the  type  save  form  were 
^^^  present  in  England  in  the  middle    of  the 

eighteenth  century  in  the  terror  school  started  by  Wal- 
pole's  ** Castle  of  Otranto.*'  The  author  declared  his 
work  to  be  an  attempt  to  blend  the  ancient  romance  and 
the  modem  novel.  By  modem  novel  he  meant  the  stories 
of  Richardson,  Fielding,  Smollet,  and  their  less  worthy 
contemporaries;  by  ancient  romance  he  most  have 
meant  the  Oriental  wonder  tale;  for  he  has  sliding 
panels,  trap  doors,  subterranean  passages,  and  a  gen- 
eral extravagance  in  an  attempt  at  magnificence.  In- 
deed, in  regard  to  the  multiplicity  of  detail,  this  school 
is  often  called  the  Gothic.  The  difference  between  the 
narratives  of  the  school  of  terror  and  the  Oriental  won- 
der tale  is  the  difference  of  atmosphere.  While  the 
ancient  tale  is  mysterious,  it  is  seldom  if  ever  morbid. 
Esi)ecially  is  the  cheerfulness  true  of  the  stories  of 
mediseval  chivalry  that  later  embodied  the  wonder  tale. 
Enchantment  there  is,  but  it  is  airy;  if  there  be  any 
vaults,  they  are  not  damp.  But  the  "Castle  of  Otranto" 
The  school  fey  Walpole,  the  "Old  English  Baron"  by 
of  terror  Clara  Reeve,  the  "Romance  of  the  Forest," 
the  "Mysteries  of  Udolpho,"  and  the  "Italian''  by  Mrs. 


THE  ARTISTIC  GROUP  399 

RadelifFe,  and  *-The  Monk"  by  Matthew  Lewis, — the 
six  chief  romances  of  the  school  of  terror, — ^are  all  damp, 
dark,  ghostly,  and  morbid.  Mrs.  Radclifle,  however, 
added  an  element  of  eigbteenth-eentnry  rationalism  in 
her  attempt  at  explanation;  inasmuch  as  she  always 
refers  her  constant  suggesti<ms.of  the  supernatural  to 
ordinary  causes.  Moreover,  she  interspersed  her  work 
with  excellent  landscape  description  in  harmony  or 
contrast  with  her  theme.  The  contributions,  then,  of 
the  romances  of  the  school  of  terror  are  (1)  frightful 
mechanism,  (2)'  a  general  tone  of  Gothic  fantastical- 
sess,  (3)  weird  place-imp^essions  that  can  be  explained 
by  natural  causes,  and  (4)  terror  of  physical  or  super- 
natural punishment  and  death. 

To  point  out  how  much  Edgar  Allan  Poe  on  the 
mere  material  side  is  indebted  to  this  set  of  writers, 
possibly  through  Charles  Broekden  Brown  xsdgar 
and  the  American  school  of  terror,  we  need  ^^^^  ^^ 
only  to  name  over  to  ourselves  two  of  his  famous  weird 
tales  together  with  their  grosser  elements.  "The  Fall 
of  the  House  of  Usher"  has  general  arabesqueness  plus 
hollow  groans,  echoing  footsteps,  high  pointed  windows 
excluding  light,  a  person  imprisoned  in  a  metal  vault 
(the  hero  in  the  "Castle  of  Otranto"  is  imprisoned  in  a 
^gantic  metal  helmet),  terror  of  death,  consonant  land- 
scape description,  natural  causes  for  weird  sounds.  The 
'*Pit  and  th6  Pendulum*'  has  a  dungeon  of  the  Inqui- 
sition, horrible  Astruinent  of  torture,  brink  over  which 
to  fall,  bodily  and  mental  fear  of  death  (Lewis's  mionk 
is  snatched  by  demons  from  the  Inquisition  and  carried 
to  a  cKft  of  the  Sierra  Morena.  off  which  he  is  com-^ 
manded  to  fling  himself).' 


460  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NABRATIVES 

But  Poe  is  as  far  away  from  the  crude  and  bungling 
methods  of  the  earlier  writers  as  he  is  near  their  mate- 
rials. How  cracking  doors  and  opening  vaults,  quaking 
houses,  and  walking^  dead,  outer  ttorific  elements  and 
inn^<  terrific  sensation  and  movbid  imaginative  percep- 
tion reaching  madness,  €an  be  fused  into,  one  harmo- 
nised, unified,  piercing,  intense  prose  poem  he  has 
shoT^n  us  in  this  same  **Fall  of  the  House  of  Usher." 
Nothing  of  the  kind  could  be.  better.  Hia  own  cruder 
attempt  is  set  forth,  in  the  fore-sliudy,  ** Berenice," 
which  might  be  considered  good  if  the  other  story  were 
ikoi  immeasurably  better,  A  side  sketch  of  quite  a 
dififerent  tone,  yet  almost  as  weird,  is  his  beautiful 
color  symphony  of  the  ** Masque  of. the  Red  Death." 
All  are  exquisite  artistic'  creations. 

Poe's  ^-Wiiliam  Wilson,"  an  imaginjative  psycho- 
logiQal  horror  study  of  conscience,  has  been  paralleled 
if  not  surpassed  by.  Stevenson 's  *  *  Markheim. ' ' 
evenson  <<j^ar]^ii^jn?>  jg  more  concrete,  e8f>ecially  at 
the  beginning;  there  is  more  of  story  .$nd. less  of  sym- 
bolism about  it.;  but  the  climax  is  the  same,  or  rather 
the  reverb;  for- in  Poe's  story  William  W-ilson's  worse 
self  mhirders^  his  better,  while  in  Stevenson's-  story 
Mafkheim'ng. better  self,  the  murderer,  who  ideally  hates 
his.deed,  triumphs:  over  hia  worqe. self,  th«  coward  and 
lia».    ■•.•'•  .;,.  .. 

Ikl  Poe's  story:  th.4  weirdness  .riesults:fram.tb£  fact 
that  Wilson «^s  cofa^eienoe,  which  bekiHs,.  is  a  concrete 
double  with  the  sam^  name  and  appeateance.  Stevenson 
has  united' this  deviecj  of  a  double,  with/ w^ird  place- 
description  andi  weird  deedrJaajrativfr.  He  has  kept  the 
thing  more  psychological  and  less  sy3niboli<j  by  naakiDg 


THE  AETISTIC  GBOUP  401 

the  aeeond  presence  explainable  as  an  hallucination, 
more  shadowy  than  Poe's. 

*^What  is  It?  a  Mystery''  by  Fitz  James  O'Brien 
shows  how  very,  very  material  the  horror  story  may  be  v 
and  yet 'O'Brien 'is  is  not  an  uninteresting  Maiipas- 
nar]tatiTe;:'for  it  i^  full  of  vigor  and  truth*  saiit^aiid 
likeness  in' the  beginning;  the  end  only  is  othara  ,,. 
bad  art;  wiiere  the*  frightened  people'  take  a  plai^ter 
cast  of  the  niysterions  being  they  have  captured  andi 
can  not  see.  ^ -The  Hand"  by  Maupassant,  is  another 
such  toueb  horror  tale,  but  of  course  bettear  told«  His 
'*  Apparition  V  is  almost  pure  narrative  and  builds  to  a* 
fine  realistic  i^limax,  despite  the  ghostliness  of  the  visit- 
ant. Matthel^y's  **Venetiati  Glass"  is  also  weird  plqt 
rather  tlian  weird  place,  while  '*  The  -Wind  in  the  Rosc^ 
Bush ' '  is^  emphatic Wly  character  stujdy,  and  the  '  *  (PJaan- 
tom  Rickshaw'^  is  a- good  old-fashioned,  if  Oriental, 
ghost  story* 

For  your  first  attempt  at  this*  type  of' narrative,  you 

miglit  tiy  th^'  modern  ghost  story,  and  later,  whed 

more  practised,   the   delicate  psychological 

analysis  of  states  of  eonseieiicej  '  The  modem  tioSf ^ 

ghost  stories  differ  froni  folk-tales  concern-  writing  a 

woird  talo 
ing  weird  beihgs  in  this  respect  particularly  r 

the  mod<e^m 'i^ost  is  usually  explainable,  a  fact  you 

would  :  expect'  foe^aiise   of  oiir   iDheritance;- from,  the 

terror  8chO(d.     He  is*  a 'logical  ghost— a  creature  o£ 

one'id'  own  ibaakidg;'  azk  ihftllueination  at  best  or  a:  white 

cow  at' worst.     The^- author  sets  out  to  depict  npt  sd 

much  the  ghost,  fts  th^e  ghost's,  effect  tpon  theheto.  In 

a  number  of  instflntgesthb' modem  narrative  of  tfaia 

kind  rises  to  the  plane  of  the  true  short-story,  comply- 


402  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NABKATIVES 

ing  with  all  the  canons  of  art.  Bead  for  example  one 
of  Mary  E.  Wilkins  Freeman's  six  ** Stories  of  the 
Supernatural/'  of  whieh  the  ''Wind  in  the  fiose  Bush" 
i|3  one. 

The  material  is  comparatively  simple.  Get  eerie 
circumstances,  a  credulous  or  boastfully  incredidoas 
Material  mind,  a  probable  incident,  an  explainable  ap- 
andoMUiodparition,  and  any  modem  setting  that  will 
hold  the  course  of  events  together.  See  to  it  that  the 
construction  is  unified  and  coherent.  Build  to  a  climax, 
and  stop  quickly  afterwards.  Make  the  apparition  a 
logical  outgrowth  of  the  environment  and  the  state  of 
mind  of  the  victim.  The  ghost  of  the  folk-tale  usually 
appears  to  the  half-witted,  the  foolish,  the  credulous; 
but  the  ghost  of  the  modern  story,  to  prove  his  exist- 
ence, perhaps,  is  far  bolder ;  he  speaks  out  to  the  skep- 
tic, the  person  who  calls  a  shadow  a  shadow.  That  the 
unearthly  spirit  must  catch  the  strong  man  at  his  weak 
moment  is  obvious — otherwise  there  would  be  no  story. 
But  when  the  events  are  given,  stop.  Do  not  explain 
too  much. 

It  is  w^  to  notice  the  different  m^hods  of  getting 
the  facts  before  the  reader.  Sometimes  everything  is 
set  forth  by  the  author,  and  the  characters 
speak  but  little  or  notat  all.  Somietimes  one 
character  speaks  in  a  continued  mogoologue.  Sometimes 
the  events  come  out  in  conversation  or  dialogue,  the  dra- 
matic method,  and  the  author  appears  but  little.  When 
he  appears  not  at  all  we  have  true  drama  instead  of 
narrative.  The  larger  number  of  stories,  doubtless, 
are  a  mixture  of  author  and  character  talk. 


THE  ABTISTIC  GROUP  408 

^'Halloa!    Below  tlwrer' 

When  he  heard  a  voice  thus  calling  to  him  he  was 
standing  at  the  door  of  his  box  with  a  flag  in  his  hand, 
furled  around  its  short  pole..  One  would  have  thought, 
considering  the  nature  of  tite  ground,  that  he  could  not 
have  doubted  from  what  quarter  the  voice  came;  but, 
instead  of  looking  up  to  where  I  stood  on  the  top  of  the 
steep  cutting  nearly  over  his  head,  he  turned  himself 
about  and  looked  down  the  line.  There  was  something 
remarkable  in  his  muiner  of  doing  so,  though  I  could  not 
have  said  £or  my  life  what.  But  I  know  it  was  remark- 
able enough  to  attract  my  notice,  even  though  his  figure 
was  foreshortened  and  shadowed  down  in  the  deep 
tr^ieh,  and  mii;ie  was  high  above  him,  so  steeped  in  the 
glow  of  an.angi^y  sunset  that  I  had  shadowed  my  eyes 
with  my  haiatd  before  I  saw  him  at  all. 
•'^HaUoa!    Belowl*' 

From  looking  down  the  line  he  turned  himself  about 
again  and,  raising  his  eyes,  saw  my  figure  high  above 
him. 

''Is  there  any. path  by  which  I  can  come  down  and 
speak  to  youT' 

He  looked  up  at  me  without  replying,  and  I  looked 
down  at  him  without  pressing  him  too  soon  with  a 
repetition  of  my  idle  question.  Just  then  there  came  a 
vagtte  vibration  in  the  earth  and*  air,  quickly  changing 
into  a  violent  pulsation,  JEUDid  an  oncoming  rush  that 
caused  me  to  start  back  as  though  it  had  force  to  draw 
me  down.  When  such  vapor  as  rose 'to  my  height  from 
this  rapid  train  had  passed  ine  and  was  skimming  away 
over  the  landscape^  I  looked  down  again  atid  saw  him 


404  TYPES  OP  PBOSfi  NARRATIVES 

refurling  the  flag  he  fiad  Bhown  while  the  train  went  by. 

I  repeated  my  inquiry.  After  a  pau6^,  during  which 
be  seemed  to  regard  me  with  fixed  attention,  he  motioned 
with  his  roUedAip  flag  towards  a  point  6n  my  level, 
^some  two  or  tiiree  hundred  yards  distant.  I  called  down 
to  him,  **A11  right!''  and  nMtde  for; that  point.  There, 
by  dint  of  looking  eloaely  about  me,  I  foonda  rough 
zigzag  descending  path  notched  out,  whieh  I  followed 

Tho  cutting  was  extremely  deep  md  unusually  pre- 
cipitate. It  was  made  throvigh'  a'  olammy  stone  that 
b€HQame  ooEier  and  wetteir  as  I  went  down.  For  these 
reasons  I  found  the  way  lohg  enough  Ho  recall  a  singular 
air  of  reluctance  or  compulsion  with .  which  he  had 
poiiited  out  the  path. 

Whto  I  came  dbtvn  16w  enough  upon  t&e  zigzag 
descent  to  aeo'  him  agaih,  I  saw  that  bo '  was  standing 
between  the  rails  oil  the  way  1^:  which  the  train  had 
lately  passed,  in  an  attitude  as  i£  he^'v^ireiwaiiting  for 
me  to  appear.  He  <  had  his  left  hand  at  his  chin,  and 
that  left  elbow  3^ested  on  his  right  hand/ crossed  over 
his  breast.  His  attitude  was  one  of  such  expectant 
watchfulness,  that  I  stopfped  a  niomei|t,  wondering  at  it 

I  resumed  my  downward  way  and,  stepping  out  upon 
the  level  of  the  railtoad  amd.  drawing  neareir  to  him,  saw 
that  he  was  a  dark,  sallow  man^  with  a. dark  beard  and 
rather  heavy  ey^raws:  His  post « was  in  as  fiolitaiy  and 
dismal  a  place  as  >eyer  I  saw.:  On  either  side>  a  dripping- 
wet;  wall  of  jagged /Stone,  eaooiuding  aU'Tiew  but  a  strip 
of  sky ;  the  per^poetive  one  way;oi[ily  a  ciooked  prolonga- 
tion of  this  great  dungeon;  the  shorter  peirspective  in 
th^ptherdireetian  terminating  in  a  gloomy^  ted  light 
and  the  gloomi^l!  entrance  !to  a  blick  tomiel,  >  in  whose 


THE  ARTISTIC  OROUP  401^ 

inasftive  airehitectere  there  was*  a  barbaroas,  depressing 
and  forbidding  air.  So  little  sunlight  ever  found  it« 
way  to  tbis^  spot  that  it  had  an  earthy,  deadly  Amell; 
and  so  much  cold  wind  rushed  through  it  that. it  gtmok 
chill  to  me,  as  if  I  had  left  the  natural  world. 

Before  he  «timd  I  was  near  enough  to  him  to  lave 
touched  him.  .Not  even  then  removing' his  eyefe:  fl-om 
Biime,  he  stepped  back  one  step  and  lif ted^  his :  hbnd. 

This  was  a  lonesome  post  to  occupy  (I  sadd),  and  i4 
had- riveted  my  «tteiition  when  I  looked  down  foom  up 
yondeit*.  .  A*  visitor  was  a  TaHty,'  I  shooM  'suppose;  not 
an  unwelcome  rarity,  I  hoped?  In  me  he  merely  saw 
k  mail  who  had  been  shut  up.  within  nanrow  Umitl^  all  his 
life,  and  who,  being  at  last  set  free,  had  a  ne^ly 
awakened  interebt  m  these  gifeat' works.  To  jwidi'pur- 
poik  I^gpokfeto^'Miri;  feut  1  .am  far:frointstire>!o£ithe 
term»  t  uised,  for  b^sideisf  that  I  am<  no^  happy  in  (open^ 
ing^  any  conversation,  tUere  was -something  in  tbe'-man 
that  daunted,  me. 

He'  directed  a  Inest  cim^us  lodfc  tb^faardg  the  ired 
light  liifeap 'the  ttti^ielV  tnoiith  and  -looked'  alL  abeut  it, 
as  =tf  sd^m^hing  Vene  mdsslng^  from  it,  land  then  fooked 
at  me.  ■'   :  •  •  ••  :-  •'•  .-■"•  '  •-  ■•  •       '•.  •  •'•  •< 

That  ligiM: '  wasf  paH  of  hi»^  charge*— was  it  not  ?  •  ' 

fi^  answfeired  in  a  low;  T<ifce,  '^^  Dbil  't  you  know  itiisf  * 

The  liaiWistrottSi  ttidugtit  chme  into  ttty  iM.fad  ai»'I 
ptft^used  the  fi!ted  eyes  and  the  «a;tttrniner  <ace  ttoit  tbis 
waift  ft  spirit^  not  a  man. :  I  h£tvie»  speculated  sineid  whelfbet 
tkere'iAAy  have  bfeeii  i:A{ecti<in  in-  his  Aiind.'         •     -  ■ 

In  my  turti  I  stepped  back  But  in  lAakin^  thfe 
actifflfii  I  detected  in  his'eyei^  soitfe  llatent  fedrdf-me. 
This' ^ut  the  monstr6us  thought  to  flight.  ■'    '     '    -^'^ 


406  TYPES  OF  PEOSE  NAKBATIVES 

**You  look  at  me,"  I  said,  forcing  a  smile,  '*as  if 
you  had  a  dread  of  me." 

*'I  was  doubtful,"  he  returned,  ^'whether  I  had  seen 
you  before." 

''Where?" 

He  pointed  to  the  red  light  he  had  looked  at. 

''There?"  I  said- 

Intently  watchful  of  me,  he  replied  (but  without 
sound),  "Yes." 

"My  good  fellow,  what  should  I  do  there?  How- 
ever, be  that  as  it  may,  I  never  was  there^  you  may 
swear." 

"I  think  I  may,"  he  rejoined.  *'¥ea  I  am  sure  I 
may." 

His  manner  cleared,  like  my  own.  He  replied  to  my 
remarks  with  readiness  and  in  well-chosen  woi^.  Had 
he  much  to  do  there?  Yes,  tiiat  Was  to  say,  he  had 
enough  responsibility  to  bear;  but  exactness  and  wat^- 
fulness  were  what  was  required  of  him,  and  of  actual 
work — ^manual  labor — ^he  had  next  to  none.  To  change 
that  signal,  to  trim  those  lights  and  to  turn  tiais  iron 
handle  now  and  then  was  all  he  had  to  do  under  that 
head.  Regarding  those  many  long  and  lonely  hours  of 
which  I  seemed  to  make  so  much  he  could  oji^ly  say  that 
the  routine  of  his  life  had  shaped  itself  into  that  form 
and  he  had  grown  used  to  it.  He  had  taught  himself 
a  language  doi^m  here — ^if  only  to  know  it  by  sight  and 
to  have  formed  his  own  crude  id$as  of  its  pronunciation 
could  be  called  learning  it.  He  had  also  worked  at 
fractions  and  decimals,  and  tried  a  little  algebra;  but 
he  was,  and  had  been  as  a  boy,  a  poor  haiid  at  figures. 
Was  it  necessary  f pr  him  whw  on  duty  always  to  re- 


THE  ABTISTIC  GROUP  407 

main  in  that  channel  of  damp  air,  and  oonld  he  never  rise 
into  the  sunshine  from  between  those  high  stone  walls  f 
Why,  depended  upon  times  and  circumstances.  Under 
some  conditions  there  would  be  less  upon  the  line  than 
under  others,  and  the  same  held  good  as  to  certain  hours 
of  the  day  and  night.  In  bright  weather  he  did  choose 
occasions  for  getting  a  little  above  these  lower  shadows; 
but,  being  at  all  times  liable  to  be  called  by  his  electric 
bell  and  at  such  times  listening  for  it  with  redoubled 
anxiety,  the  relief  was  less  than  I  would  suppose. 

He  took  me  into  his  box,  where  there  was  a  fire,  a 
desk  for  an  official  book  in  which  he  had  to  make  certain 
entries,  a  telegraphic  instrument  with  its  dial,  face  and 
needle,  and  the  little  bell'  of  which  he  had  spoken.  On 
my  trusting  that  he  would  excuse  the  remark  that  he 
had  been  well  educated  and  (I  hoped  I  might  say  with- 
out offence)  perhaps  educated  above  that  station,  he 
observed  that  instances  of  slight  incongruity  in  such 
wise  would  rarely  be  found  wanting  among  large  bodi^ 
of  men ;  that  he  hUd  heard  it  was  so  in  work-houses,  in 
the  police  force,  even  in  that  last  desperate  resotiroe, 
the  army;  and  that  he  knew  it  was  so,  more  or  less,  in 
any  great  railway  staff .  He  had  been,  when  young  (if 
I  could  believe  it,  sitting  in  that  hut — he  iscarccly  could), 
a  student  of  natural  philosophy,  and  had  attended 
lectures ;  but  he  had  run  wild,  misused  his  opportunities^ 
gone  down,  and  never  risen  again.  He  had  no  com- 
plaint to  offisr  about  that.  He  had  made  his  bed  and  he 
lay  upon  it.    It  was  far  too  late  to  make  another. 

All  that  I  have  here  condensed  he  said  in  a  quiet 
manner,  with  his  grave  dark  regards  divided  between  me 
and  the  fire.    He  threw  in  the  word  **Sir*'  from  time  to 


408  TYPES  OF  PROSE .  NAKKATIVES 

time;  ^and  espeesftll]^  when  ke  referred  to  his  youth— as 
tkough  to  lequest  me  to  underiitaxid  that  he  claimed  to 
be  nothing  but  what  I  found  him;  He  wias  several  times 
iatetrupted  by  tljie  little  bdl,  and  bad  to  read  -off  mes- 
aages,  aad  «end  replied;  Onoe  h^^  had: to  stand  without 
the  doobr  and  display  a  flag  tis  a  train  passed  and  make 
soBtie  verbal  eomBiiUiieatiOn  to  the  driver.  In  the  dis- 
charge, of  his  duties  liobseifVed  him.  to  be  remarkably 
&giht%  and  vigilant, :  breaking  off  his  diseourse  at  a  pl- 
iable audrei^aiiiiiig  siteiKt  Until  what  he  had  to  do  was 
done^ 

In  a  wordy; I  sbiouJkl  have  s^t  this  man  down  as  one 
of  th^sdfe&t:bf  men  to  be;eisii>10(yed  in  that  capacity,  kt 
£or  th^  .tUiffftumstanoe  that  Mihik  he  Vf9t^  spealdng  to  me 
h$  twiee  hi^kei  off;  with  a  fallen  <3olt)r,  turned  his  face 
towwrds  the;  Jittl^  beH  wh)en  it.  did  juot.  ring,  opened  the 
d$oi:.!o£  the  hut^  (which,  was  iept  shut  to- exclude  the  im- 
healthy^  daio^p}^:  and  tooked  out  .to^aztds  the  red  light 
near  th^  tujofith  of  .this. tunnel; i  On  both  of.  those  oc- 
casions he  ^ame  hack  to  the  firei  yrith  tbe  ij^Lexplioable  air 
upQn.biin  whiclf  I  ha4.:r^aarked,  withqut. being  able  to 
define  <wben  we  w^e^ mr  fer-aautidet.'  , 

§aid  I,  iWhje*L  I.rofJe  to  leate  Wm^/*  You  almost  make 
me  think:thftt  J  havemeit  with  AM0pBftt^Sted  -man." 
.      (X  am  ,afi:aid  I,  must.acto^l^e  thatl  said  it  to 
lead  bimi.on.)      .  . .     .  :      .; ..  .  ...  .  ; 

.;  .MI  t^lievp  Imsedjt^.beso,^'  he  .i^'oluisd,  in  the  low 
vodqci  in.whipb  h«  h^(d  fii^st  spoken  j  '*.but  I  a:m  troubled, 
sir,  1/8411; tr^uWeiJ."      •   .     •  i   .  .■   . . 

1  .]^e .  woiild  h^vei  recflllcid  the  .words^  it  he  t»)Qld.  He 
hftd .  flaid  th^m,  .hoiwever,^  and  I  took,  them  up  quicklv. 
...  .''With  what?  :  What  isyour  troublei!'' 


OnHE.  AETIETIC  GROUP    :  409 

**It  is:  very  difBcult.  to  iitiparrt,  sir.  It  is  verjr,  very 
difficult  to  speak  of.  If  ^ver  you  mtblos  me^asolher  visit' 
I  will  try  to  tell  you.'* 

^^Biit  I  expressly: intend :td  ipake  :you. another t.'C'isit. 
Say,  vs^hen  shall  it :b6?''  v^      ''.  ''*■    ' 

'^I  go:  ojS  learly  dn  thi$  nix»rm]ig,:aiiil'I'  &diail  ber  on 
again  at > (ten, t©^iaorrow. night,  fiiri^"'  -  r.  .      '  i  .  .    ..:   .•', 

**:I  trillieome. at  eleven.  •'■  .  «•■  ^  .  •■'•  n  ''^•  J:^-  1    ',-  «• 

He^thanidd  na*. and  went  t©  the  door* mritjlime.  ** I'll 
show  my  wh>itei»light,.«ir,''  he  said  in  hisi'pdculiaF  low 
iTDaoe,  ^  *.till  you  harvte  fbutid  the  way  upl  When  lyoa  have' 
found  it,  don't  eatll  otlt!.  And<^whdSL  yon  areiat  th^>tQ{5,' 
ion't  cdlLoutl"  .   :    ;.     i  .  •   •      :  I 

His  mtoqer!  scented  to  make  the  place'  strikercolder 
:o  me^  baat;I.»aidno  moDe-tlian '*¥erjf.wdl*^'.. 

*  *  And  when  jou  eotdecdown..  to-morrow,  aiight^  donj'fc 
*ajl  out!  •  Let  me:  Ask.  yoftt, a  parting  question.' 'What: 
nade  you  cry  *  Halloa!     Below  there  I'i.to-iiight  IV 

'* Heaven  knows,"  sdid  I.  .//I  cried'  soinetbing'  to 
;hat  eflfeet— "  "'      ,    .  t'/ 

*'Not  to  that  eflfeet,  sir.  Those  were-thi  irei^»\^Ol'ds. 
;  know  them  well."  ;;/r 

^/AdtoitrithQae.iWeria  the  T«ry  Ttords.  lisaui'  thiem, 
lo  doubt  b^ause  li  sawr  yetubeldw."  -  '*  <-    • 

*'For  no  other  reason?"  ./.  •    'if     .  *»  r  . 

'';'Wiat.  ofbher  reasoa  cojttld/lpxjteibly  hawt':':   :   « 

'  'YfOTi-  hadi  no  fieeUnig^  that  rthey:  iwr«»e  aonveyed  >  to  y«m 
a  any  supernatural  tvay?"   '  >  .  •  ■  /  .:        !      i   . 

He. .wished  me  good-night  and.  beld^up^  HisiiJifeht.-  I 
Talked;  by  the  side.ol.ithe  down  .line  of  rails  '(^th-al 
ery.i.disagi^eeablie  scJE^iition  of>a  trsLm^^omiAg  behind 


410  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NABRATIVE8 

me)  until  I  found  the  path.  It  wbm  easier  to  moimt 
than  to  descend)  and  I  got  baek  to  my  inn  without  any 
adventure. 

Punctual  to  my  appointment,  I  placed  my  foot  on 
the  first  notch  of  the  zigzag  next  night  as  the  distant 
clocks  were  striking  eleven*  He  was  waiting  for  me  at 
the  bottom  with  his  white  light  on.  ^'I  have  not  called 
out/'  I  said  when  we  came  close  together;  ^^may  I  speak 
nowf  '^By  all  means,  sir."  ^^Good-night,  then,  and 
here's  my  hand."  '* Good-night,  sir,  and  here's  mine." 
With  that  we  walked  side  by  side  to  his  box,  entered  it, 
closed  the  door  and  sat  down  by  the  fire. 

'^I  have  made  up  my  mind,  sir,"  he  began,  bending 
forward  as  soon  as  we  were  seated,  and  speaking  in  a 
tone  but  a  little  above  a  whisper,  ^' that  you  shall  not 
have  to  ask  me  twice  what  troubles  me. .  I  took  you  for 
some  one  else  yesterday  evening.    That  troubles  me." 

''That  mistake?" 

*'No.    That  some  one  else." 

*'Who  is  it?" 

''I  don't  know." 

''Like  me?" 

"I  don't  know.  I  never  saw  the  face.  The  left  am 
is  across  the  face  and  the  right  arm  is  waved — ^violently 
waved.    This  way." 

I  followed  his  action  with  my  eyes  and  it  was  the 
action  of  an  arm  gesticulating  with  the  utmost  passion 
and  vehemence,  "For  God's  sake  clear  the  way!'' 

"One  moonlight  night,"  said  the  man,  "I  was  sitting 
here  when  I  heard  a  voice  cry  'Halloa!  Below  there  1* 
I  started  up,  looked  from  that  door,  and  saw  this  some 
one  else  standing  by  the  red  light  near  the   tunnel 


THE  ARTISTIC  GROUP  411 

waying  as  I  just  now  showed  yon.  The  voice  seemed 
hoarse  with  shouting  and  it  cried,  ^Look  out!  Lo<^ 
out!'  And  then  again,  ^Halloa!  Below  there!  Look 
out!'  I  caught  up  my  lamp,  turned  it  on  red,  and  ran 
towards  the  figure,  calling,  *  What's  wrong  f  What  has 
happened  T  Where  T  It  stood  just  outside  the  blackness 
of  the  tunnel.  I  advanced  so  close  upon  it  that  I 
wondered  at  its  keeping  the  sleeve  across  its  eyes.  I 
ran  right  up  at  it,  and  had  my  hand  stretched  out  to 
pull  the  sleeve  away,  when  it  was  gone." 

''Into  the  tunnel,"  said  I. 

''No.  I  ran  on  into  the  tunnel  five  hundred  yards. 
I  stopped  and  held  up  my  lamp  above  my  head  and 
saw  the  figures  of  the  measured  distance  and  saw  the 
wet  stains  stealing  down  the  walls  and  trickling  through 
the  arch.  I  ran  out  again  faster  than  I  had  run  in  (for 
I  had  a  mortal  abhorrence  of  the  place  upon  me),  and 
I  looked  all  round  the  red  light,  with  my  own  red  light, 
and  I  went  up  the  iron  ladder  to  the  gallery  atop  of  it, 
and  I  came  down  again  and  ran  back  here.  I  tele* 
graphed  both  ways,  'An  alarm  has  been  giv^i.  Is  any- 
thing wrong!'  The  answer  came  back,  both  ways,  ^AU 
well.'  " 

Resisting  the  slow  tou(di  of  a  frozen  finger  tracing 
out  my  spine,  I  showed  him  how  that  this  figure  must 
be  a  deception  of  his  sense  of  sight,  and  how  that  figures. 
originating  in  disease  of  the  delicate  nerves  that  minister 
to  the  functions  of  the  eye,  were  known  to  have  often 
trouUed  patients,  some  of  whom  had  become  conscious 
of  the  nature  of  their  affliction  and  had  even  proved 
it  by  experiments  upon  themselves.  "As  to  an  imagin- 
ary  ery,"  said  I,  "do  but  listen  for  a  moment  to  the 


412  TYPES  OP  PBO^  NARBA.TIVES 

wind  in  this  unnatural. valley,  while  we  speak  so  dow 
atad  to  the  wild  harp  it  maked  of  tlaye  telegraph  wires!" 
■  That  was  all  very  wall,. he  .returned,  after  we  had 
sat  lisii^Qihg  for  a  while/  and  he  ought  to  know  some- 
thing of.'  the  wind  imd  wi^esh-he  who  so  often  passed 
kmg  winter,  nights  therej^  alone  ,and  watching.  But  he 
would  beg  to ^eiuaa!'k  that  he  had;  not'  fioijsbed. 

I  ashed  his  pardon  and  h^slis^wly  add^d  these  words, 
toaiching  ffldy  arm;  i.         . 

'*  Within  six  hours  after  theappwranc^  the  memor- 
able accident  on  this  line:  happ^nedy  md  •  within  ten 
hours  the  dead  and  the  wounded  w-ere  brought  along 
through  the  tunnel  ov^r  the  spot  where  the.  figure  had 
stood.''     i  .-  .,•    ^.     ...'.,•..  :=      •       ■ 

A  disagreeable  shudder  orept(Oy^r  me^  but  I  did  my 
best  against  it.  It  was  not  to  be  denied,  I  rejoip.ed,  that 
this  was  a  renaarkable  eoineiden^e/G^^aulated  deeply  to 
impre^  his  mind.  But. it  Was  ,^iLnq:aeBtionable(  that  re- 
markable .coincidences  did ,  co»tinually ;  oceur  and  they 
must  be  taken  tutoaoooiiint.inidejlJytng  with  such  a  sub- 
ject, Thooagh  to  be  sure  I  must  J  admit,.  J  added  (fori 
thought  I.  saw  that  h«  wasgoingjto  ibUln^  the  objection 
to  bear  upon  me),  men  of  common  sense  did  not  allow 
mueh  for  eoilfiLcidenee  making  thje  ordinary  oalciUations 
of- life.   r.  '»'•.,  .-'  .     ,  i;  ,-.•.   ■  .. 

He  again  begged;  ;to  remark  tha4;  Jhel  had  Jiot  finished. 

I  again  begged  1  his  pardon  for  being  betrayed  into 
^ntjarruptions,  • 
'  ^ '  This, ' '  ihe-  said,  again  laying  his; hand  upon  my  arm 
and>fiancing^ver:his  shoulder  with  hoUow.ieyee,  **waa 
JHisit  a/  yeaar  ago.  Six:.o»  seven  months  passed,  and  I  had 
ceoovered  from  the  surprdae  and  shock,  Iwihen  one.  mora- 


THE  ARTISTIC  GKOUP  418 

Ing,.  ni  *he;<ilay  tras  br^akiBg;  I,  atandingat  the  door, 
looked  towards  the  red  light  and  saw  the  spectre  again." 
He  st<^ped  wttha  fi^ed  look  at'Bia. 

t'DiditcrSroutr? 

''No.    It  wte  silBnfj'^ 

*' lipid  it  I  wave  its  arm?!' 

^'No..;  It  leaned  agsipst  the  shaft  of  the  li^t.witb 
both  handsbefopfr.the'face.i   liifce  this."    •  ; 

Once  more  I  followed  his  action  withimy-.ejrefik  It 
was  an  action  of  mourning.  I  have  ^een  sncihMatil  attitude 
in  stone  figures  on  tombs.  >       i      ; .     / . 

**Did  you  go  up  toltrf  ...,'./ 

'M  eame:  in  and:  sift  dowti^  partly'  to  ^epUeot^  my 
thoughts/ partly  becatiiie  it  bad  turned  me*  faint;* .  Whem 
I  went  to  the  door  again,  daylight  Wis  abov<i!nie  tod  the 
ghost  was  gone/'  .     :  ■;    >    ; 

' '  But  .nothing  ■  JBoBoWeA?    Nothing  aame  .o£  this « ' '.  • 

He  tbu^hed^nie  oh  the  arm  with  his  foiiefiligjar  ti^ioe 
or  thrice,  giving  a  g)ia8ti5f  •  nod  eiush  tittie,    . 

''That  Veity  day,  flaithe-tmiti  came  out  of  the  tuAnel, 
I  nditiced  at  a  carriage  rwiildow  on  my  side  iirhat*  looked 
like  a  confusion  of  hands  and  heads  aifd  sdzHi^thing 
waved*.  Ij  saw:  it  (just  j  in  time,  to  signal  thedriv^r,  stop ! 
He  shut  off.  and  put. his! brfeke  on,  but  the  traid  drifted 
past :  here,  a-  hundred,  and  fifty  yardi^  [ot  mote. '  T  o-am 
after  it  and  as  I  wemt  jdiongfaeitrdteririMe  sereaimsAiid 
ci*ie». .  u4  bfeautifxUr  ysoungj  lady,  hadf  died  insrtiintaneoiMrljr 
in  one  of  the  corhpavtm^tnts  and  was  brought  in  here  add 
laid  down- on  1  this 'floor  V  bet  ween  iis.'!      , 

InvolujDitarily  I  pufibed  my  ciiair  back  suddenly, 
aB  I  looked' from  the  boards,  .at  whloh  he  pointed,  to 


414  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NAEEATIVES 

**True,  sir.  True.  Precisely  as  it  hi^ppened,  so  I 
tell  it  yon." 

I  could  think  of  nothing*  to  say,  to  any  purpose,  and 
my  mouth  was  very  dry.  The  wind  and  the  wires  took 
up  the  story  with  a  long  lamenting  wail. 

He  resumed.  *'Now,  sir,  mark  this  and  ju<^e  how 
fay  mind  is  troubled.  The  spectre  came  back  a  week 
ago.  Ever  since  it  has  been  there^  now  and  again,  by 
fits  and  starts." 

*'At  the  lightt" 

*'At  the  danger-light." 

**What  does  it  seem  to  dot" 

He  repeated,  if  possible,  with  increased  passion  and 
vehemence,  that  former  gesticulation  of,  **Por  God's 
sake,  clear  the  way ! ' ' 

Then  he  went  on.  "I  have  no  peace  or  rest  for  it. 
It  calls  to  me,  for  many  minutes  together,  in  an  agonized 
manner,^ Below  there!  Look  out i  Lookout!'  It  stands 
waving  to  me.    It  rings  my  little  bell*—" 

I  caught  at  that.  **Did  it  ring  your  bell  yesterday 
evening  when  I  was  here  and  you  went  1»  the  door?'* 

''Twice." 

*'Why,  see,"  said  I,  **how  your  imagination  mislea.dsj 
you.  My  eyes  were  on  the  bell  and  my  ears  were  opei^ 
to  the  bell,  and  if  I  am  a  living  man  it  did  not  rin^  at 
those  times.  No,  nor  at  any  other  time,  except  when  il 
was  rung  in  the  natural  course  of  physical  things  bj 
the  station  communication  with  you." 

He  shook  his  head.  ''I  have  never  made  a  misrbaki 
as  to  that  yet,  sir.  I  have  never  confused  the  spectre* 
ring  with  the  man's.  The  ghost's  ring  is  a  strange  vitr^ 
+i*/^n  \n  the  bell  that  it  derives  from  nothing  else,  axi.d 


THE  ABTISTIC  GBOUP  415 

have  not  asserted  that  the  bell  stirs  to  the  eye.  I  don't 
wonder  that  you  failed  to  hear  it.    But  I  heard  it." 

"And  did  the  spectre  seem  to  be  there  when  you 
looked  out?" 

'*It  was  there." 

''Both  times?" 

He  repeated  firmly:  ''Both  times." 

"Will  you  come  to  the  door  with  me  and  look  for 
it  now?" 

He  bit  his  under  lip  as  though  he  were  Bomcrwhat 
unwilling,  but  arose.  I  opened  the  door  and  «^od  on 
the  step  while  he  stood  in  the  doorway.  There  was  the 
danger-light.  There  was  the  dismal  mouth  of  the 
tunnel.  There  were  the  high,  wet  stone  walls  of  the 
cutting.    There  were  the  stars  above  them. 

*'Do  you  see  it?"  I  asked  him,  taking  particular  note 
of  his  fiaee.  His  eyes  were  prominent  and  strained,  but 
not  very  much  more  so,  perhaps,  than  my  own  had  been 
when  I  had  directed  them  earnestly  towards  the  same 
i^pot. 

"No,"  he  answered.    "It  is  not  there." 

"Agreed,"  said  1 

We  went  in  again,  shut  the  door,  and  resumed  our 
seats.  I  was  thinking* how  best  to  improve  this  ad- 
vantage, if  it  might  be  called  one,  when  he  took  up  the 
conversation  in  such  a  matter^>f-course  way,  so  assum- 
ing that  there  could  be  no  serious  question  of  fact 
between  us,  that  I  felt  myself  placed  in  the  weakest  of 
positions. 

"By  this  time  you  will  fully  understand,  sir,"  he 
said,  "that  what  troubles  me  so  dreadfully  is  the  ques- 
tion, What  does  the  speetre  mean?" 


416  TYPES  or  PKOSB  NAJRBATIVES 

'  I>\^as  not  8iire/I  1ioki:bim,.;thatllidid  fullj  under- 
stand. 

' '  ^A/liat  k  itJB  wantmg  against  T ',  he  ^id,  ruminating, 
with  his  eyes  on  the  fire  and  only  by  times  turning  them 
on  me.  **What  is  the  danger  t  Where  »  the  danger? 
There  is  danger  overhanging  somewhere  on  the  line. 
Some  dreadful  (Calamity  will  hapj^n.  It  is  not  to  be 
doubled  this  third  time  alter  .What,  haa  gone  before.  Bnt 
surely  this  is  a  cruel  haunting  of  me.    What  can  I  do?" 

He  pulledout  hid  handkerc^^f^ti^  wiped  the  drops 
froiii:  his  Jheated.  forehfeadi  [ 

.  *^If'  I'  telejgraph  danger  on  -either  side  of  me,  or  on 
both,  I  oliti./give:no  rtosonfor  it/'  he  went.oij,  wiping 
the  palnis  of  his  hands.  **!  should  get  into  trouble  and 
do  no  good.  They  wotild  tbtnk  I  was. mad.  This  is  the 
itay  it 'would  work-*— Message  J  /Danger  I  Take  care  I' 
Answered:  'What  dajDger?  Wh^reT  Message:  'Don't 
know..:.  B«tt  for  God's  .s^Jfce,-  tafee  caarel'  They  would 
disdiairge  taa    What-etoe  couLiithey  dcj?." 

His  pain  of  mind  was  most  pitiable  to  see.  It  was 
the  mental  torture  Oifcia  ^onscier^tiwa/mfwi  oppressed  be- 
yond endurance  by  an  unintelligibte:  respgoBibUity  in- 
volving life^  .  J,'  (.■ 
•  ''When  it  I  first  stood  unddt  the  danger-light,"  he 
went  ont^  Pitting  his  datrk^hliir  bach  from  his.  head  and 
drawing  his  handsr  outward  ^eross^  and-  across  his  temples 
in  an  extremity,  of.  feverish  disftrefls,  ^' why  not  tell  me 
wh»&re  that  ajocidelit  was  toheppfen,  if  it  miuit  happen? 
Why  not  tell  me  how  it  could  be  averted,  if  it  could  have 
bieen  avei^tedV  When  on  its  se^nd  oomiuig  it  hid  its 
face,  why  not:  tell  me,  instciad,  '  She  ia  g^ng  to .  die.  Let 
them  keep  her  at  home'!'  •  K-it  ^ftme,  Pi^  those  two 


THE  AKTISTIC  GffiOITP  •  417 

occasions,  omly  toehbw  methat  dts  Wamingft  Wfeir&  true 
and  so  to. prepare  me  foi?  the  third,  why  bot, warn  me 
plainly  now?  And  I,  Lord  help  me!  A  mere  poot 
sigiial  laftn  in  thdft's<^&Ty'  station  t:  '  Wh]^  Hot  go  to 
somebody  with  credit  to  be  believed  and  powei^  to  act?'* 
.  When  I.sfiw  him.  in  this  «tate  I  saW  that  fot  the 
poor  maji'B  sake,  aai  well  as  £oir  the  public  safety,  what 
I  iiBi^  to  do*  for  'the  time  was  t®  compose  his  mind; 
Kiereforcj  setting  aside  all  qtiestioii  of  reality  or  un- 
reality hietwieen.'  ni;  I  rerppeseiited  to  <  him  that  Whoever* 
thoroughly  discharged,  his  duty  must  do  well,  and  thai 
at  least  it;  waij  his  conifoirt  Hiat  he  understood  his  duty, 
thoQgh  he  did  not-undeistaand  thesei-  oonfotmding  ap- 
peapancesL  :In-*bi»iefEort  I  succeeded  far  better  than  in 
the  attempt  to  reason*  him  out  of  his  convictiofn.  He 
became  cainl;'.the,oeoiipatioB8  incidental  to  his  post  as 
the  night  ladvanced  began  to  make  larger  demands  on 
hisi  at^ezfctiozi;  and. I  left: him  at>  two  in  the  morning.  I 
had  .Offered  to.  stay  through  the  night,  but  he  Wohld  not 
hear  of  it..  .;  •  .:  :.'  --.^  '  •  • 

Thet  I- more  than  once  looked  back  at  the  rod  light 
as  I  ascended  the  petiiway  i  thftt  I  did  not 'like  the  red 
light;  and  thAt  I  shpuld  have  slept  but  poorly  if  my  bed 
had  be>en,  un^^r  it,!  I  see  no- reason  to  conceal.  Nor  did 
I  likdjtbe  two  Jgequenced  of  thd  accident  and  the  dead 
girl,    I  see  |io: reason. to  conceal  that,  either.        •• 

But  what  ran  most  in  my  thoTights  was'  the  con- 
sideration, .how  ought  I  to  act,  having  becom^'  the  re- 
cipient o£  this  dificlosure?.  I  had  proved  the  man  to  be 
intelligent,  vigilant;  paiiistaking  and  exact  ,•-  but  hoW 
long:  might  be  remain  8o>  in  his:state  of  mind?  Tbo^h 
in, a  subordinate  positieoi,  still  he  held  a  most  ionpOrtant 


418  TYPES  OP  PBOSB  NABBATIVES 

truBt,  and  would  I  (for  instance)  like  to  stake  my  own 
life  on  the  chances  of  his  continuing  to  execute  it  with 
precision! 

Unable  to  overcome  a  feeling  that  there  would  be 
something  treacherous  in  my  communicating  what  he 
had  told  me  to  his  superiors  in  the  company,  without 
first  being  plain  with  himself  and  proposing  a  middle 
course  to  him,  I  ultimately  resolved  to  offer  to  accompany 
him  (otherwise  keeping  his  secret  for  the  present)  to 
the  wisest  medical  practitioner  we  could  hear  of  in  those 
parts,  and  to  take  his  opinion.  A  change  in  his  time  of 
duty  would  come  round  next  night,  he  had  apprised  me, 
and  he  would  be  off  an  hou^r  or  two  after  sunrise,  and  on 
again  soon  after  sunset.  I  had  appointed  to  return 
accordingly. 

Next  evening  was  a  lovely  evening,  and  I  walked  ont 
early  to  enjoy  it.  The  sun  was  not  yet  quite  down  when 
I  traversed  the  field-path  near  the  top  of  the  deep  cut- 
ting. I  would  extend  my  walk  for  an-  hour,  I  said  to 
myself,  half  an  hour  on  and  half  an  hour  back,  and  it 
would  then  be  time  to  go  to  my  signal-man's  box. 

Before  pursuing  my  stroll  I  stepped  to  the  brink  and 
meqhanically  looked  down  from  the  point  from  which  I 
had  first  seen  him.  I  cannot  describe  the  thrill  that 
seized  upon  jue,  when,  close  at  the  mouth  of  the  tunnel 
I  saw  the  api)earance  of  a  man  with  his  left  sleeve  across 
his  eyes,  passionately  waving  his  right  arm. 

The  nameless  horror  that  oppressed  me  passed  in  a 
m^m^nt,  for  in  a  moment  I  saw  that  this  appearance  of 
a  man  was  a  man  indeed,  and  that  there  was  a  little 
group  of  other  men  standing  at  a  short  distance  to  whom 
he  seemed  to  be  rehearsing  the  gesture  he  made.    The 


THB  ABTISTIC  GBOUP  419/ 

danger-light  was  not  yet  lighted.  Against  its  shaft  a 
little  low  hut,  entirely  new  to  me,  had  been  made  of 
some  wooden  supports  and  tarpaulin.  It  looked  no 
bigger  than  a  bed. 

With  an  irresistible  sense  that  something  was  wrong 
— ^with  a  flashing  self-reproachful  fear  that  fatal  mis- 
chief  had  come  of  my  leaving  the  man  here  and  causing 
no  one  to  be  sent  to  overlook  or  correct  wjiat  he  did — I 
descended  the  notched  path  with  all  the  speed  I  could 
make. 

/^What  is  the  matter  f  I  asked  the  men. 

** Signal-man  killed  this  morning,  sir.'* 

**Not  the  man  belonging  to  that  boxl" 

''Yes,  sii:-" 

''Not  thp  man  I  know?" 

"You  will  recognize  him,  sir,  if  you  knew  him,"  said 
the  man  who  q)oke  for  the  others,  solemnly  uncovering 
his  own  head  aflid  raising  an  end  of  the  tarpaulin,  "for 
his  face  is  quite  composed." 

"O,  how  did  this  happen,  how  did  this  happen?"  I 
asked,  turning  from  one  to  another  as  thQ  hut  dosed  in 
again. 

"He  was  cut  down  by  an  engine,  sir.  No  man  in 
England  knew  his  worik  better,  but  somehow  he  was  not 
clear  of  th^  outer  rail.  It  was  just  at  broad  day.  He 
had  struck  the  light  and  had  the  lamp  in  his  band.  As 
the  engine  came  out  of  the  tunnel  his  back  was  towards 
her  and  she  cut  him  down.  That  man  drove  her  and  was 
showing  how  it  happened.    Show  the  gentleiman;  Tom," 

The  man^  wha  wore  a  rough  dark  dress,  stepped  back 
to  his  former  place  at  the  mouth  of  the  tunnel : 

"CiMning  round  the  curve  in  the  tunnel,  sir,"  he 


420  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

said,  ^'  I  saw  him  at  the  end,  like  as  if  I  saw  faim  down  a 
perspective  glass.  There  was  no  time  to  eheck  speed, 
and  1  knew  him  to-  be  rery  careful.  As  he  dtdn't  seem 
to  take  heed  of  the  whistle,  I  shut  it  off'wh^n  we  were 
rdnning  down  upon  faim  and  <»ll€ld  to  hfan  as  loud  as  I 
oould  call." 

*' What  did  you  say?" 

*'I  said,  *  Below  thei*e!  Look  out!  Lode  out!  Pdr 
God 's  sake,  dear  th^  way !  * ' 

I  started. 

**Ah!  it  was  a  dreddfiil  time,  sir.  1  never  left  ofi 
calling  to  him.  I  put  this  arm  before  my  eyes  not  to 
see,  and  I  waved  this  arm  t6  th«  last  ;but  it  was  no  use." 

Without  prolonging  the  narrative  to  dwell  on  any 
one  of  its  curious  circumstances  morfe  than  any  other,  I 
may,  in  closing  it,  point  out  the  feoincidenee  that  the 
warning  of  the  engine  driver  included  not  only  the 
words  which  the  unfo^tnnalTe  signal-man  hud  repeated 
to  me  as  haunting  him,  but  also  th^  words  which  I  my- 
self—^not'  he-^had  attaci^d,  a2kd  that  only  in  nay  own 
mind,  to  thei  gestioulati^n  ke  had  imitated. 

— Charles  Dickens. 

.  f«Xdk8  B  TUef  In;  tbe  Ni«ht*' 
"How  many  ^ofre  days  of  this  miserable  tramping 
biave  we  before  us,  IVan't'*    Iti  was  ft^rongh  voice  that 
spoke — ^a  voice  hardeiJed  with  bittertness  and  hatred. 

**But.four  days  more,  l^eter,  aind  then  the  railroad 

There  lies  Mansk  beldw'tis,  and  it  is.not  far  from  Mansk 

to  Vilna,  not  eveii  by  aioha'  detour  as  we  must  make." 

Peter  pttnsed  ^gain-in  his^  ealting  ^md  looking  out 

from  their  Woodland  biding^plao^  towftvd  the  sera^ly 


.     THE  ARTISTIC  GBOUP  421 

village,  asked  d^ubtingly^  '*Y6u  are  .$ure  they  will  not 
fail  us?  For  I  swear,  Ivaii,  I'll  walk  no  further  than 
Vihia.''     . 

Ivan  twisted  his  scarred  lips  into  a.  semblance  of  a 
smile.  **The  brotherhood  never  fail,'*  he  said.  **And 
now  that  we  have  finished  our  supper,  we  may  rest  for 
the  night,  -eh,  Lev?"  The  speaker,  who  showed  evi- 
dences of  association  with  the  upper  classes,  turned  ti> 
the  young  Jewish  lad  sprawled  beside  him  on  the  mouldy 
ground.  The  boy  was  laboriously  spelling  out  words  in 
a  greasy,  dog-efired  tract  which  he  tried  to  conceal  when 
he  saw  Ivan's  eyes  upon  him. 

** Hello,*'  exclaimed  the  nihilist  fanatic,  *'what  have 
we  here?"  He  took  the  grimy  pamphlet  from  the  Uke- 
wise  grimy  hands  of  the  youth.  **Ho-ho,"  he  laughed 
boisterously, .  for  once  forgetting  that  sometimes  even 
trees  have  ears.  **Ho-hoI  a  merrjr  jest,  indeed  1  Lev 
reading  up  on  transmigration  I.  Did,  you  think  to  be-? 
come  learned,  ypu  pitiable  young  d6g?  Have  you  not 
had  meted  out  to  you  the  full  amount  of  education 
allowed  you  miserable  Jews?  What  can  you  under- 
stand, of  sucsh  thiitgs  as  these?  Ho-hol  yes,  a  joke 
indeed!" 

The  boy  gulped.  His  narrow  nostrils  widened,  and 
the  corners  of  his  S(^isitive  mouth  twitched.  '^I  know 
I  doi^'t  know  much,  Ivan.  .1  found  it  on  the  way  and 
kept  it,  for  it  helps. sometimes^  wh-when  I  wish  I  hadn't 
come.'- 

*  *  Ho-ho, ' '  laughed  Ivan  again.  *  *  When  he  wishes  he 
hadn't  come!  .4^;  if  hier  could  have  helped  coming! 
Where,  indeed,  could  the  brotherhood  have  found  a 
more   innoeent^ooking  hiding-place  for  their  papers! 


422  TYPES  OP  PB08E  NAKBATIVES 

But  there,  Lev,  yon  shall  have  your  thesis,  since  yon  feel 
the  need  of  amusement,  you  precious  infant.  And, 
Peter,  perhaps  you  will  rest  more  peacefully  when  I  tell 
you  that  Loris  Pleschivna,  that  government  spy-cat — " 
here  Ivan  paused  to  observe  the  interest  which  he  knew 
that  this  name  would  create,  while  Lev,  frightened, 
glanced  backward — -^'was  shot  two  weete  ago,"  finished 
the  narrator,  impressively. 

Peter's  yellow  face  showed  great  relief,  but  the  boy 
whitened.  **Well,  Lev,  are  you  not  glad!  Or  perhaps, 
mighty  philosopher,  you  think  that  his  soul  will  come 
and  steal  the  papers  while  you  keep  watch  to-night,  ehT' 
And  Ivan  grinned — ^a  hideous,  tooth-displaying  grin. 
But  Lev  only  shivered  and  looked  around  at  the  dark- 
ness. 

The  night,  one  of  those  clear  nights  whose  very  pale- 
ness intensifies  the  shadows  and  pictures  the  ghosts  of 
the  past  to  the  guilty  mind,  had  fallen.  The  two  older 
men  rolled  themselves  in  blankets  and  went  to  sleep 
without  delay. 

The  young  Jew  sat  alone,  waiting  for  morning.  For 
hours  he  remained  in  the  same  position,  his  hands  over 
his  eyes  that  he  might  not  see;  but  his  ears  were  alert 
to  the  slightest  suggestion  of  sound.  In  those  weary 
minutes  he  lived  over  the  scanty  pleasures  and  the  great 
tribulations  of  his  life,  the  joyless  life  of  the  persecuted 
Polish  Jew.  The  crackling  of  a  dry  leaf  nearby  aroused 
him.  He  looked  up  quickly,  apprehensively.  A  long 
wailing  howl  came  from  somewhere  in  the  darkness. 
Lev  stiffened,  staring  into  the  shadows  before  him. 
From  a  clump  of  bushes  directly  opposite  peered  two 
w«ird  green  eyes.     The' lad's  lowei*  lip  sagged  loosely. 


THE  ARTISTIC  GROUP  423 

As  the  strange  eyes  approached  lie  uuconflciously 
moaned.  Ivan  and  Peter  stirred.  Suddenly  Ivan 
jumped  up.  '*Lev,  Lev,  what  is  itf  But  the  boy  sat 
rigid.  Ivan  also  looked  at  the  green  eyes  in  the  under** 
brush.  Then  he  laughed,  laughed  long  and  heartily. 
'/Did  you  think  it  w^s  a  soul,  Levi  A  dog^  and  you 
afraid!  Perhaps  it  is  a  isoulful  dog,"  Ivan  had 
sufficient  culture  nbt  tcf  laugh  at  his  own  joke,  but  he 
waited  for  Peter's  appreciation  and  Peter  gave  it.  Lev's 
only  reply  was  to  draw  his  hand  across  hie  brow.  The 
palm  came  down  damp  and  clammy;  *'But  it  ia  just 
as  well,"  went  on  Ivan,  *'that  we  are  awake,  lor  it  will 
soon  be  daylight,  and  we  had  best  be  moving." 

In  five  minutes  the  trio  were  on  their  watchful  way 
to  skirt  the  little  village  of  Mansk.  The  trio,  .did  I  say? 
No,  the  quartet,  I  meant,  for  two  men^  one  with 
misshapen  lips,  the  other  with  decided  Jewish  features^ 
went  ahead;  and  close  behind  them  walked  a  leathery 
visaged  man,  who  had  for  a  companioti  a  seraggfy  half- 
starved  cur,  with  ghastly  green  eyes.  Oeeasibnally  the 
Jew  turned,  and,  looking  into  those  green  eyes,  shivered^ 
'* Well,"  said  Ivan,  ** perhaps  it  is  tiiesoul  of  Pleschivna, 
eh  ?  "  In  answer  the  dog  whimpered.  *  *  It  may  be, ' '  said 
the  Jew,  stupidly,  **it  may  be,"  and  he  shivered  again. 

The  cold  was  of  tie  damp  clinging  sort,  against 
which  no  amount  of  clothing  cam  protect  one.  The 
three  men  on  the  tree-covered  hill  overlooJring  the 
thatched  brown  cottages  of  Mansk,  drew  up  their  eoat 
collars  and  shivered.  They  had  turned  back  and  wete 
seeking  for  something.  The  scrawny  green-eyed  dog 
with  them  whined  a  low  whine  like  a  hinnan  moan. 

*  *  Curse  the  dog ! "  exelaimed  one  vagabond  in  a  rain>- 


424  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

ing  voice.  **I11  have  him  following  us  no  longer  with 
his  ghostly  howls.  And  I  tell  yon,  Ivan,  it  is  useless 
to  go  back  further,  for  Lev  had  the  papers  when  we 
were  here  before.'' 

**Yes,  curse  the  dog/'  returned  the  man  with  the 
ever-grinning  mouth.  ** Curse  hirn^  of  course;  and  since 
you  feel  such  deep  affection  for  him,  why  not  present 
him  with  one  of  those  -  taWets  meant  for  Pleschivna's 
palate?  Perhaps  they  would  even  so  fulfill  their  in- 
tended purpose.    What  say  you,  Lev?" 

The  dull-eyed  Jewish  lad  stared  at  the  dog  as  if 
faiscinated.  **It  may  be,"  he  said  and  shivered  again. 
It  was,  indeed,  a  very  cold  night. 

''Well,  and  the  papers?"  Peter  impatiently  queried. 

**I  say,  then,  it  is  useless  to  go  forward  to  Vilna 
without,  them.  We  must  search  about  here.  Perhaps 
liev  has  an  opinion."  But  Lev  was  thinking  only  of  a 
much-thumbed  philosophical  tract  in  his  pocket.  *'0r, 
perhaps,  learned  theosophist^  you  believe  that  the  dog 
has  taken  them.-  '•  You  could  not  tell  us  soi^i^what  of  them 
yourself,  could  you,  Lev?".. 

*'Lev!  Whyj  he'a  afraid  of  his  own  shadow!  He 
would  not  dare  to  teU  a  lie,  not  ^ven  to  himself,"  Peter 
scoffed. 

Again  the  dog  whimpered.  He  went  up  to  Lev  and 
licked  the  boy's  hand.  Ivan  watched  the  performance 
interestedly.  **None  the  less,"  he  said,  *'the  dog  shall 
have  his  dose,  and  that  right  now.  He  follows  x^a  about 
like  an  evil  spirit."  The  men  disposed  themselves  as 
on  the  evening  before. 

How  Lev  had  prayed  for  the  night !    And  now  that 
^  prayer  was  answered,  how  he  stared  into,  the  thick, 


THE  ARTISTIC  GROUP  426 

solid  bla^knesi^  and  longed  for  {he  gr^y  light  of'  morn- 
ing! With  straining  ears  he  listened  to  the  midnight 
stillness.  He  had  not  even  thought  of  sleep.  If  only  he 
could  rid  himself  of  that  dullness  or  could  concentrate 
his  thoughts! 

A  figure  broke  through  the  bushes.  VIvan,  Iva»i" 
came  Peter's  voice.  *'Ivan,  wake  up!"  Ivan  roused 
himself.  **"Well,  Peter,  why  do  you  create  i^ch  a  dis- 
turbance T'  Ivan's  speech  was  pettish,  though  still 
husky  from  interrupted  sleep.  **Ivan,  I  got  up  and  gave 
the  dog  the  dose,  as  you  said.  He  slunk  off  into  the 
woods.  I  followed.  I  don't  know  why.  It  was  almost 
midnight  when  he  gave  a  shiarp  cry  and  dropped.  I 
swear  I  had  never  lost  sight  of  him  for  an  instakt.  I 
went  up  to  look.  He  was  dead.  And,  Iran,  from  his 
very  mouth  I  took — the  jiapers!"  Peter  waxed 
triumphantly  di^amatic,  his  every-  low-spoken  word 
sounding  in  Lev's  ears  with  the  loudness  of  a  tribal 
war-whoop.  After  much  fumbling  in  the  darkness  he 
placed  in  Ivan^t  hands  a  slightly  torn  packet. 

**A  light!*'  Ivan  spoke  tersely. 

Peter  struck  a  Hght.  Trembling,  Ivan  spread  out 
the  documents.  A  gruesome,  unearthly  howl,  like  the 
triumphant  screech  of  a  resentful  soul  came  to  them 
through  the  blackness.  "With  an  awful  oath  Ivan  turned 
to  Peter.  **The  si^atures,  you  ignoramus,  you  imbe- 
cile T'  he  cried,  pointing  to  the  ragged  holes  in  the 
papers.    ' '  They  are  gone ! ' ' 

And  Lev  shivered,  for  the  night  was  very  cold. 

-^Dorothea  Knobloch. 


426  TYPES  OF  PBOSB  NABBATIVES 

IL    The  Story  That  Emphuiies  Character  and  &i- 
vironment. 

The  large  number  of  Kipling's  stories  oould  not 
have  been  written  outside  India,  or  at  least  the  Orient. 
Budyarfl  They  are  of  the  East  eastern.  '*  Without 
Kipling  .  Benefit  of  Clergy,''  ^'Muhammad  Dhi,'' 
'*The  Gate  of  the  Hundred  Sorrows,-'  <*The  Man  Who 
Would  Be  King" — ^the  very  names  copjure  up  the  en- 
vironment. They  do  more  than  that;  they  almost  tell 
the  story.  Before  he  began  to  write,  Kipling  knew 
thoroughly  his  ?uiopted  literary  land;  in  the  same  way 
all  successful  writers  must  know  theirs  if  they  mean  to 
reveal  the  influence  of  surroundings  on  ohf^racter,  if 
they  mean  to  igiv^  as  mmy  writer*  do,  a  miniature  of 
the  locality  in  each  sketch.  To  read  one  of  Mary  E. 
Wiltins's  storiBs  is  to  eatoh  the  flavor  of  all  New  Eng- 
land. HernuniftindeedaNewEngland.nun.  Nowhere 
else  do  people  keep  house  quite  so ;  but  in  scores  of 
Massachusetts  and  Gonnectieut  homes  the  women,  mar- 
ried and  single,  are  *that  particular'— or  nearly  as  par- 
ticular as  Louisa  Ellis.  But  wait  a  minute !  If  there  are 
tens  of  women  like  Louisa  Ellis,  wherein  comes  the 
MaxyE  »tory*'  Why,  do  you  not  see? — ^just  in  the 
Wiiking*  plus,  the  superfluity  of  New  Bnglandishness 
Freeman  ^^^  there  is  in  Louisa.  It  is  the  breadth  of 
that  more^so  that  gave  Miss  Wilkins  her  twenty-four 
stories  in  the  same  book,  and  others  outside  it.  And 
here  is  the  point :  in  this  kind  of  story,  your  writer  must 
know  his  locality  so  well  that  the  sameness  of  the  peo- 
ple has  a  difference  in  each  family  and  in  each  member 
of  that  family.    In  other  words,  his  characters  must  be 


THE  ABTISTIC  GBOUP  427 

persons,  not  figureheads ;  they  may  be  types,  it  is  true, 
but  they  must  have  the  soul  of  individuality  breathed 
into  them.  For  instance,  in  this  one  collection  of  stories 
Miss  Wilkins  has  two  Louisas,  and  they  both  are  typ- 
ically of  New  England,  they  both  have  suitors,  and 
they  both  are  averse  to  marriage ;  moreover,  each  slight 
course  of  events  is  built  on  the  impulse  of  the  woman 
to  avoid  matrimony.  But  here  the  likeness  ends;  for 
the  women  are  individuals,  and  the  lovers  are  difPereni 
from  each  other.  The  character-drawing  of  these  two 
stories  is  a  daring  attempt  on  the  part  of  the  author, 
but  it  is  a  remarkably  successful  one. 

Hamlin  Garland  has  been  almost  as  successful  with 
his  middle  Northwest  as  Miss  Wilkins  has  with  her 
New  England.  His  stories  can  not  be  called  H^mUiii 
quaint,  as  hers  can,  nor  sweet  exactly;  but  Garland 
they  can  be  said  to  be  as  graphic,  faithful,  straight- 
forward, homely,  and  to  have  been  compiled  with  as  pa- 
tient and  sympathetic  an  observation — not  so  mioute, 
but  as  unerring.  They  are  freer,  bolder,  more  like  the 
country  he  portrays.  With  Mr.  Garland  perhaps  we 
have  more  of  the  out-of-doOrs,  literal  country,  the  black 
soil  ihto  which  the  people's  liv^  are  ploughed  and  from 
which  they  come  out  again  sometimes  at  the  top  of  the 
com  tassel.  With  Miss  Wilkins  the  country  jb  more 
that  country  not  built  with  hands,  eternal  in  character- 
istics. Of  both  writers  the  work  is  great  work,  a»d 
you  can  not  go  astray  in  taking  either  for  your  model. 
**Up  the  Coolly"  is  a  remarkable  tragedy — for  tragedy 
it  is.  **The  Return  of  the  Private"  is  all  too  pathet- 
ically true.  **  Among  the  Corn  Rows"  is  startlingly  real- 
istic, and  *'A  Branch  Road" — well,  doubtless  pepplc 


42S  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

have  varying  opinions  about  the  usefulness  of  such 
pictures,  but  nobody  can  gainsay  the  excellence  of  the 
craftsmanship. 

In  a  somewhat  different  way,  with  just  as  much 
realism  maybe,  but  surely  with  a  large  dash  of  romance, 
Bret  Harte  pre-empted  California  as  a  liter- 
ary laud  two  decades  before  these  younger 
writers  staked  out  their  claims.  ** Tennessee's  Partner" 
and  '*The  Outcasts  of.  Poker  Plat"  are  perfect  in  their 
way,  and  their  way  is  this  way : .  the  place-character 
narrative. 

To  write  such  a  narrative,  you  must  have  vividly 
and  accurately  in  mind  your  selected  environment.    It 

is  to  form  the  color  of  your  picture.    If  you 
Suffffos- 
tionsand      ^^  ^^^  think  you  know  thus  iatimately  any 

preoau-  locality,  open  yonr  eyes,  The  beautiful  fact 
about  living,  ia,  that  we  all  always  live  some- 
where, and  that  same  somewhere  is  full  of  a  number  of 
things,  and  of  nothing  more  surely  than  of  local  color. 
It  is  your  business  as  a  writer  to  add  this  color  con- 
stantly to  your  stories ;  but  the  best  way  to  proceed  is 
not  to  attempt  to  spread  it  on. from  the  outside,  but 
to  let  it  shine  through  from  within*  To  be  sure,  it 
must  be  on  the  valleys  and  hills,  the  streets  and  the 
houses. and  the  window  curtains;  but  it  mus;t  also  be  in 
the  speech  of  your  people,  in  their  actions,  their  atti- 
tude toward  each  other  and  toward  the  great  and 
little  questions  of  human  relationship.  Besides  know- 
ing the  environment,  you  must  know  indisputably  some 
individuals  of  the  place.  You  can  not  draw  a  life-like 
sketch  from  an  abstraction.  The  canvas  painters  have 
taught  us  that  truth,  and  so  have  the  sculptors.    For 


THE  AETISTIC  GROUP  429 

every  figure  they  have  a  living  model.  They  must 
know  where  the  bones  and  sinews  are,  even  if  they 
mean  to  etherealize.  So  must  you,  and  you  have  a 
harder  problem;  your  figure  must  speak.  One  false 
tone,  and  you  mar  the  impression.  Mary  K  Wilkins, 
excellent  artist  that  she  is,  has  impaired  one  of  her 
strongest  stories,  '*The  Revolt  of  Mother,"  by  a  lapse 
of  art  in  respect  to  two  of  her  characters.  The  girl 
and  boy  are  not  old  enough  for  the  age  the  author  in- 
timates ;  or  what  sihe  says  that  they  are  is  too  old  for 
what  they  prove  that  they  are  when  they  speak  and 
when  they  keep  silent  even,— especially  the  girl.  More- 
over, we. feel  that  the  mother  is  ten  or  fifteen  years 
youziger,  than  the  age  given  her.  These  are  minor 
points,  one  admits,  «nd,  as  we  say,  the  story  is  excel- 
lent; but  in  so  far  as  it  fails  in  little  ways  it  is  not 
superfine,  though  one  of  the  most  lovable  and  dramatic, 
of  Miss  Wilkins 's  productions.  In  art  you  must  not. 
make  this  mistake ;  it  is  no  answer  to  assert  that  in  life 
the  woman  w;as  sixty  and  the  boy  and  girl  fourteen  and 
twenty.  On  the  basis  of  the  character-drawing  the 
woman  is  forty-five  or  fifty  and  the  children  are. twins, 
less  than  sixteen  years  old.  In  other  words,  a  realist 
that  is  an  artist  as  well  selects,  not  only  what  is  true 
but  also  what  will  immediately  without  argument  seem 
true.    Miss  Wilkins  usually  is  convincing. 

In  addition  to  an  unmistakably  clear  knowledge  of 
place  and  personality,  you  must  know  both  local  dialect 
and  family  veirnacixlar.  The  various  individuals  of  your 
sketch,  if  they  happen  to  belong  to  the  same  household, 
must  speak  as  if  they  so  belonged.  In  actual  life  when 
you  converse  with  a  company  of  persons,  you  can  pick 


430  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

out  two  members  of  the  same  family  as  readily  as  you 
can  pick  out  two  members  of  the  same  community. 
Your  character-narrative  must  reveal  this -likeness,  not 
by  declaration  especially,  but  by  a  subtle  unity  of  vo- 
cabulary that'  does  not  at  the  same  time  preclude 
individuality. 

The  writers  of  this  kind  of  short-story  owe  much  to 
the  past.    We  are  inclined  to  think  of  quiet  and  trath- 

ful  character  sketchers,  who  reveal  an  ap- 
chaxacter  preciative  knowledge  of  the  influence  of  en- 
^^dH^u^     vironment,   as  distinctly   a  late  nineteenth 

century  brotherhood;  but  the  fact  is  that 
while  moderate  realism  is  undoubtedly  the  last  artistic 
word  on  the  subject  of  effective  character-revelation, 
it  is  also  the  first.  The  modem  novel  of  manners  (and 
the  artistic  short-story  of  the  same  class  as  an  offshoot 
of  it)  drew  from  a  full  stream  of  realism.  As  far  back 
as  the  age  of  Overbury  and  Bishop  Hall  the  public  was 
interested  in  prose  character-sketches.  The  fact  that 
essays  could  have  such  names  as  ''The  Tinker"  and 
**The  Milkmaid"  was  a  promise  of  the  light  of  common 
day.  Then  the  gentle  de  Coverley  papers  came  on  with 
their  slight  narrative 'and  continued  portrait,  their  de- 
lightful skits  on  class  environment  and  tradition ;  then, 
Tristram  Shandy's  frank  shamelessness  about  familiar 
things;  then  the  Vicar  of  Wakefield's  struggling  pov- 
Tlie  novel  ^^^^5  ^^^  finally  the  women  entered — Eve- 
of  man-  lina,  Belinda,  Emma,  Mary  Barton,  and  the 
"®"^  gentle   ladies   of   Cranford,   bringing   with 

them  the  tea-table  and  the  trials  of  the  parlor  and  of 
factory  life.  The  only  thing  that  was  needed  to  make 
the  archetype  complete  by  the  middle  of  the  nineteenth 


THE  AETISTIC  GBOUP  43I 

century  was  lor  some  one  to  take  persistently  the  same 
larger  yet  specific  environment.    Anthony  TroUope  did 
so  in  his  Cathedral  Town  Studies.  What  ran 
parallel  for  a  time  with  the  novel  of  man-    OatheSr^ 
nerSy  but  had  a  later  and  fuller  develop-    ^<i^^n 
ment,  is  the.  psychological  problem  novel,        ^   ^ 
begun  by  Bichardj^on  and  Fielding  and  handed  over 
to  the  late  nineteenth  century  writers  by  Charlotte 
Bronte,    This  psychological  problem  novel  bears  the 
same  relation  to  the  novel  of  manners  as  the  charac*- 
ter-events  short-story  bears  to  the  character-environ- 
ment one. 

You  doubtless  realize,  as  every  one  realizes,  that  a 
good  short-^story  is  hard  to  Write,  but  in  the  hardnesf? 
comes  the  inspiration.  If  you  succeed,  you  have  scored 
a  triuniph.  But  for  your  comfort,  be  assured  that  the 
possibility  is*  hot  beyond  even  a  high-school  student. 
The  attempt  is  very  instructive  at  least. 

Remember  that  you  are  not  writing  a  biography, 
but  a  plaee-chai'acter  narrative  in  the  short^ory  form. 
You  are  not  called  on  to  record  every  incident  in  the 
life  of  your  subject  or  even  every  important  incident. 
The  happenings  may  all  be  minor,  in  fact.  The  only 
essential  thing  is  that  you  reveal  the  fndissoluble  con- 
neetion  between  environment  and  characteristics.  The 
person  is  what  he  is  because  he  has  lived  at  that  place 
with  those  habitual  surroundings. 

There  is  this  precaution,  however,  that  you  musk 
take  ,•  you  must  not  let  your  narrative  degenerate  into 
a  mere  analysis  and  enumeration  of  qualities.  You  are 
to  write  a  story.  And  to  write  a  story  you  must  have 
a'hai^ening  or  a  series  of  happenings,  however  mild. 


432        TYPES  OP  PROSE  :NABRAT1VES 

U&uaily  one  of  these  shoxQd  be  of  more  importance  than 
the  others,  and  the  others  shoald  be  related  to  it  as 
subordinates,  in  order  that  the  effect  may  be  single. 
Any  part  of  the  life  of  your  people  that  lies  behind  the 
day  of  your  revelation,  if  mentioned  at  all,  should  be 
told  in  retrospect;  whatever  lies  ahead,  if  mentioned 
at  all,  can  be  only  prophecy.  Aaid,  finally,  here  is  a 
little  secret,  an  open  one  among  artists,  but  one  shut 
away  from  the  herd  of  common  scribblers;  what  you 
do  not  tell  but  only  skilfully  suggest  is  what  makes 
for  excellence  and  immortality. 

Tlie  St<iry  of  Kvluunmad  Bin 

<<W1k>  is  the  bappy  inan9  He  that  sees  in  his  own  house  at 
home,,  little  ehlldren  crowned  with  dust,  leaping  and  falling  and 
crying." — Munichandra,  tjanslated  by,  Prof essor  Peterson. 

The  polo  ball  was  an  old  oaxe,  scarred,  -chipped  and 
dinted.  It  stood  on  the  mantelpiece  amoiig  the  pipe- 
stems  which  Iman  Din,  ktUtmatgar,  was  cleaning  for  me. 

^'Does  the  heaven-bom  want  this  ball?"  said  Imam 
Din,  deferentially. 

The  heaven-born  set  no, particular  store  by  it;  but  of 
what  use  was  a  polo  ball  to  a  khitmatgart 

*'By  ypur  honour's  favour,  I  have  a  little  son.  He 
has  seen  this  ball  and  desires  it  to  play  with.  I  do  not 
want  it  for  myself/' 

No  one  would  for  an  instant  accuse  portly  old  Imam 
Din  of  wanting  to  play  with  polo  baUjs.  He  carried  out 
the. battered  thing  into  the  veranda,  and  there  followed 
a  hurricane  of  joyful  squeaks,  a  patter  of  small  feet, 
and  the  thud-thud^tht^  of  the  ball  rolling  along  the 
''xound.    Evidently  the  little, son  hud  been  waiting  out- 


THE  ARTISTIC  GROUP  433 

Bide  the  door  to  secure  his  treasure.  Bui  how  had  be 
managed  to  see  that  polo  ball! 

Next  day,  coming  back  from  oflSce  half  an  hour 
earlier  than  usual,  I  was  aware  of  a  small  figure  in  the 
dining-room — a  tiny,  plump  figure  in  a  ridiculously  in- 
adequate shirt,  which  came,  perhaps,  half  way  down  the 
tubby  stomach.  It  wandered  round  the  room,  thumb 
in  mouth,  crooning  to  itself  as  it  took  istock  of  the 
pictures.    Undoubtedly  this  was  the  ** little  son.*' 

He  had  no  business  in  my  room,  of  course;  but  was 
so  deeply  absorbed  in  his  discoveries  that  he  never 
noticed  me  in  the  doorway.  I  stepped  into  the  room 
and  startled  him  nearly  into  a  fit.  He  sat  down  on  the 
ground  with  a  gasp.  His  eyes  opened  and  his  mouth 
followed  suit.  I  knew  what  was  coming  and  fled,  fol- 
lowed by  a  long,  dry  howl  which  reached  the  servants* 
quarters  far  anore  quietly  than  any  command  of  mine 
had  ever  done.  In  ten  seconds  Imam  Din  was  in  the 
dining*room.  Then  despairing  sobs  arose,  and  I  re- 
turned to  find  Imam  Din  admonishing  the  small  sinner, 
who  was  using  most  of  his  shirt  as  a  handkerchief. 

**This  boy,"  said  Imam  Din,  judiciously,  '*is  a 
6wdm«sfc— a  big  budmash.  He  will,  without  doubt,  go 
to  the  jaiL'Tchana  for  his  behaviour."  Renewed  yelliS 
from  the  penitent,  and  an  elaborate  apology  to  mylself 
from  Imam  Din. 

'*Tell  the  baby,"  I  said,  *'that  the  Sahib  is  not  angry 
and  take  him  away.^'  Imam  Din  conveyed  Hay  forgive- 
ness to  the  offender,  who  had  now  gathered  all  his  shirt 
round  his  neck,  stringwise,  and  the  yell  subsided  into  a 
sob.  The  two  set  off  for  the  door.  '*His  name,"  said 
Imam  Din,  as  though  the  name  were  part  of  the  crime. 


434  TYPSS;  OF  PBOSB  NABBATIVES 

**is  Muhammitd  Diri,  and  lie  is  a  budmash."  Freed  from 
present  danger,  Muhammad  Din  turned  round  in  his 
father's  arms  and  said  gravely,  "It  is  true  that  my  name 
is  Muhaflunad  Din,.r«Ait,  but  I  am  not  a  budmash.  I 
am  a  man!" 

From  that  day  dated  my  acquaintance  with  Muham- 
mad Din.  Never  again  did  he  come  into  my  dining- 
room;  but  on  the  neutral  gjfound  of  the  garden  we 
greeted  each  other  with  much  state,  though  bur  conver- 
sation was  confined  to  "TaZaom,  Tahib"  from  his  side, 
and  ^/ Salaam,,  Muhammad  Din''  from  mine.  Daily  on 
my  return  from  office  the  little  white  shirt  and  the  fat 
little  body  used  to  rise,  from  the  shade  of  the  oreeper- 
eovered  trellis  where  they  had  been  hid,  and  daily  I 
checked  my  hors0  there  that  my  salutation  might  not  be 
slurred  over  or  giyen  unneemly,       i 

Muhammad  Din  never  had  any  oootpanions.  He 
used  to  trot  about  the  compound,  in  and  out  of  the 
castor-oil  bushes,  on  mysterious  enrands  of  his  own. 
One  day  I  stumbled  upon  some  of  his  handiwork  far 
down  the  grounds.  He  had  half  buried  the  polo-ball  in 
dust,  and  stuck  six  shriveled  old  marigold  flowers  in  a 
circle  round  it.  Outside  that  circle  a^in  was  a  rude 
square,  traced  out.  in  its  bits  of  red  brick  alternating 
with  fragments  <?f  brokesa  china ;  the  whole  bounded  by 
a  little  bank  of  dust.  The  water-man  from  the  well-curb 
put  in  a  plea  for  the  small  architect,  saying  that  it  was 
only  the  play  of  a  baby  and  did  nbt  much  dis%tire  my 
garden. 

Heaven  knows  that  I  had  no  intenticm  of  touching  the 
child's  work  then  or  later;  but  that  evening  a  stroll 
through  the  garden  brought  me  unawares  full  on  it,  so 


THE  ABTISTIC  GKOUP  435 

that  I  trampled,  before  I  IsBaw,  marigold  heads,  dust 
bank  and  fragments  of  broken  soap-dish  into  confusion 
past  all  hope  of  mending.  Next  morning  I  came  upon 
Muhammad  Din  crying  softly  to  himself  over  the  ruin 
I  had  wrought.  Some  one  had  cruelly  told  him  that 
the  Sahib  waB  very  angry  with  him  for  spoiling  the 
garden,  and  he  had ,  scattered  his  rubbosh,  using  bad 
language  the  while.  Muhammad  Din  laboured  for  an 
hour  at  effacing  every  trace  of  the  dust-bank  and  pot- 
tery fragments,  and  it  was  with  a  tearful  and  apologetic 
fact  that  he  said,  ^^Talaam,  Tahib/^  when  I  came  home 
from  office.  A  hasty  inquiry  resulted  in  Imam  Din  in- 
forming Muhammad  Din  that,  by  my  singular  favour, 
he  was  permitted  to  distort  himself  as  he  pleased. 
Whereat  the  child  took  heart  and  fell  -to  tracing  the 
ground-plan  of  an  edifice  which  was  to  eclipse  the  mari- 
gold-polo-ball creation. 

For  some  months  the  chubby  little  eccentricity  re- 
volved in  his  humble  orbit  among  the  castor-oil  bushes 
and  in  the  dust;  always  fashioning  magnificent  palaces 
from  stale  flowers  thrown  away  by  the  bearer,  smooth 
water-worn  pebbles,  bits  of  broken  glass,  and  feathers 
pulled,  I  fancy,  from  my  fowls — ^always  alone,  and  al- 
ways crooning  to  himself^ 

A  gaily  spotted  sea-shell  was  dropped  one  day  close 
to  the  last  of  his  little  buildings,  and  I  looked  that 
Muhammad  Din  should  build  something  more  than 
ordinarily  splendid  on  the  strength  of  it.  Nor  was  I 
disappointed.  He  meditated  for  the  better  part  of  an 
hour,  and  his  crooning  rose  to  a  jubilant  song.  Then  he 
began  tracing  in  the  dust.  It  would  certainly  be  a 
wondrous  palace,  this  one,  for  it  was  two  yards  long  and 


436  TYPES  or  PE08E  KARRATIVES 

a  yard  broad  in  ground-plan.    But  the  palace  was  never 
completed. 

Next  day  there  was  no  Muhammad  Din  at  the  head 
of  the  carriage-drive,  and  no  '^Talaam,  Tuhdf  to  wel- 
come my  return.  I  had  grown  accugrtomed  to  the  greet- 
ing, and  its  omission  ti^ubled  me.  Next  day  Imam  Din 
told  me  that  the  child  was  suflfering  slightly  from  fever 
and  needed  quinine.  He  got  the  medicine,  and  an  Eng- 
lish doctor. 

''They    have    no    stamina,    these    brats,"    said    the 
doctor,  as  he  left  Iniam  Din's  quarters. 

A  week  later,  though  I  would  have  given  much  to 
have  avoided  it,  I  met  on  the  road  to  the  Mussulman 
burying-ground  Imam  Din,  accompanied  by  one  other 
friend,  carrying  in  his  arms,  wrapped'  in  a  white  cloth, 
all  that  was  left  of  little  Muhammad  Din. 

— Rudyard  Kipling. 
''Pljdn  Tales  from  the  Hills.*'    (Doubleday,  Page  &  Co.,  1907.) 

The  Fetters 

The  cool  maples  rustled  temptingly  before  the  open 
kitchen  window,  and  seemed  to  moqk  the  busy  worker 
within.  Flies  buzzed  at  the  screen. door,  and  at. inter- 
vals found  entrance  through  sundry  gaps  in  the  rusty 
screening.  Inside  th^re  was  the  endless  clatter  of 
dishes,  the  hissing  sound  of  frying,  meat,  and  occasion- 
ally a  sharp  exclamation  in  a  nervous,  high-pitched 
voice.  The  owner  of  the  voice,  a  woman  of  about  thirty- 
five,  was  walking  busily  around  the  kitchen.  A  soiled 
gingham  apron  nearly  covered  a  worn  gray  skirt,  and 
several  large  safety-pins  held  her  waist  together  over 
her  flat  chest.    Premature  wrinkles  hardened  her  eyes 


THE  AHTISTIC  GBOUP  437 

and  mouth.  Her  hair  drawn  back  over  a  high,  bony 
forehead,  was  twisted  into  an  untidy  little  knot  at  the 
back  of  her  head*  On  each  of  her  cheeks,  just  be- 
low the  bone,  came  and  went  bright  spots  of  color— ^ 
the  only  color  about  her,  for  her  hair  had  Ho  glints  bfi 
light  and  her  apathetic  bine  eyes  seemed  absolutely  de- 
void of  luster. 

As  she  hastened  back  and  forth,  opening  the  oven 
door,  setting  the  table,  inspecting  the  contents  of  vari- 
ous kettles  steaming  on  the  big  stove,  she  still  found! 
time  to  throw  a  glance,  now  and  then;  out  to  the  rickety 
porch,  where  a  pale-fticed  little  girl  sat  in  an  old  red 
porch-chair;  The  child's  big  eyes,  startlingly  prominent 
in  her  wan  face,  followed  the  woman,  and,  when  the 
latter  looked  at  her,  a  sudden  smile  would  curve  the 
straight  little  lips.  But  at  times  she  would  look  away 
from  the  kitchen  out  beyond  to  the  wheat-fields,  gleam- 
ing yellow  in  the  August  sun — and  still  farther  to  the  cool 
green  woods,  with  the  hard  blue  sky  above  them.  Then 
the  child  would  sigh,  and  her  face  would  grow  wonder- 
ing and  anxious,  as  she  turned  back  again  and  smiled 
at  the  woman  in  the  kitchen — a  curious,  wistful,  un- 
childlike  smile.  On  the  step  beside  her  lay  a  worn 
little  home-made  crutch. 

**Here  come  the  men-folks,  mother,"  the  child  ex- 
claimed suddenly.  Her  mother  came  to  the  door,  and 
shading  her  eyes  with  her  apron,  peered  up  the  dusty 
lane.  Then  she  went  back  to  the  house  and  hurriedly 
finished  setting  the  table.  The  heavy  plates  and  cups 
were  hardly  in  place  on  the  red-checked  cloth  before 
the  men  came  clattering  up  the  walk  and  up  the!  ^drch. 
Most  of  them  had  a  smile  for  the  pale  little  girl  in  the 


438  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NAKBATIVES 

ehaity  and  one  had  brcmg^bt  her  a  bunch  of  red  field- 
poppies,  already  half  withered,  in  his  big  hand.  The 
child  took  them  eagerly,  laying  their  vivid  petals  lov- 
i^gly  against  her  pale  cheek.  The  rest  of  the  men  filed 
past  With  a  grin  or  a  ro^i^ly  tender,  word— all  but 
the  last.  He  came  up  the  steps,  bis  £orehead  wrinkled 
in  a  scowl  evidently  habitual,  his  mouth  hard,  his  eyes 
deep-set  and  forbidding.  He  did  not  even  notice  the 
child,  and  she*sbrank  baek  in  her  chair,  her  lip  trem- 
bling, her  eyes  wide  with  f  eaor. 

''Dinner  near  ready,  Jane*'*  he  demanded  in  a  gruff 
tone.  Jane  gave  a  brief  little  nod  ajod  hurried  on  with 
the  rest  of  the  preparations.  Bough  laughter,  scraping 
of  boots,  loud  clattering  of  knives  on  plates,  and  a 
continual  demand  for  repleniahment,  followed  the 
course  of  the  dinner.  Jane  sat  wearily,  but  her  plate- 
ful of  cabbage  and  pork  lay  untasted  before  her.  Out 
on  the  porch  the  little  girl  sipped  a  glass  of  milk  and 
watched  the  cool  dimness  of  the  distant  woods. 

The  men  pushed  back  their  chairs,  wiped  their 
mouths  with,  the  backs  of  their  brown  hands,  and  hur- 
ried away  to  ttie  fields.  Jane's  husband  stopped  for  a 
moment  to  mend  a  rip  in  his  boot.  It  was  a  difficult 
rip  to  mend  and  his  temper  was  soon  exhausted. 

*' Why  don't  ye  learn  that  white-faced  brat  out  there 
to  workt"  he  stormed,  ''us  short  o*  haiids  an'  her  less 
good  than  none  at  all— an'  a  nuisance  to  boot."  Jane 
suddenly  turned  and  let  a  saucer  fall.  Her  lips  were 
compressed  for  a  moment,  then  she  went  down  on  one 
knee  and  carefully  picked  up  the  fragments  of  china. 

"What  a  snap  ye've  got,  next  to  wha,t  brother  Dan's 
wife  had,"  Jim  went  surlily  on.     "Dan  made  her  go 


THE  ABTI8TIC  GROUP  439 

out  an'  tend  his  grapes,  while  all  ye  Ve  got  to  do  is  cook 
a  little  and  wash  up — an'  ye  act  as  if  ye  was  worked 
hard-  Dan's  wife  never  kicked-nsJie'd  be'n  sorry  if 
&he  had,"  and  he  gave  a  hard  dry  laugh  in  appreciation 
of  his  own  humor. 

But  Jane  did  not  hear  this  laist  remark;  she  was 
thinking  of  her  brother-in-law's  wife,  a  frail  little 
woman  whose  life  had  been  made  up  of  pruning  grape- 
vines or  cutting  grapes,  working  side  by  side  with  the 
Italian  women  whom  her  husband  hired,  working  harder 
than  any  of  them  did,  too,  and  for  far  leas  recompense. 
She  remembered  how  angry  Dan  had  been  because  bi« 
wife  had  appeared  one  afternoon  in  a  shirt-waist,  instead 
of  the  usual  wrapper.  It  was  a  clumsy,  cheap,  ill-made 
thing,  but  Margaret's  eyes  had  danced  when  Jane  camo 
to  see  her  that  day.  And  she  remembered  how  Dan 
had  come  in  and  declared  he  wanted  no  high-falutin' 
things  around  his  house;  that  he  had  married  to  get 
some  one  to  work  for  him,  not  for  a  parlor  ornament. 
Poor  little  Margaret !  How  her  thin  cheekfi  had  flushed 
and  her  timid  eyes  filled  with  tears !  But  she  died  not 
long  after — Jane  gave  a  half -envious  sigh. 

**6oin'  to  stand  there  all  day  lookin'  at  nothin'?" 
a  gruff  voice  asked  suddenly,  and  she  started.  The 
knife  with  which  she  had  been  peeling  potatoes  to 
fry  for  supper,  slipped  and  cut  her  finger.  She  went 
over  to  the  sink  and  wiped  away  the  red  streak,  while 
her  husband  shufHingly  made  his  exit,  grumbling  to 
himself  over  the  foolishness  of  ever  bothering  with 
such  a  useless  baggage  as  a  woman.  On  th^  porch  he 
stumbled  over  the  little  crutch  and  kicked  it  aside  with 
an  oath. 


440  TYPES  OF  PKOSE  NABBATIVES 

The  afteriioon  'wore  away  slowly.  Little  Meg  slept 
on  her  cot  upstairs,  her  cheeks  hot  and  damp,  her  arms 
flung  wide  in  the  weariness  of  childhood.  Jane  sewed 
steadily  at  a  heap  of  burlap  grliin  bags,  until  the  sun 
went  down  in  a  riot  of  yellow  and  crimson  behind  the 
trees.  Jane  put  away  her  sewing,  gently  woke  Meg, 
and  prepared  to  go  dovmstairs  to  get  supper  ready. 
She  stopped  to  look  at  the  sunset  before  she  went  down. 
Along  the  road  beyond  came  the  rattle  of  wheels;  a 
t>«ggy  pas»ed  in  which  sat  a  Woman  in  solitary  state. 
A  striped  silk  dress  enveloped  her  rimple  person,  a  hat 
with  nodding  red  roses  and  a  broad  white  brim  shaded 
a  pair  of  stupid,  comfortable  eyes,  and  cast  its  shadow 
over  a  mouth  that  fairly  sagged  with  good  humor  and 
good  living.  Her  fat  hands,  lying  idly  in  her  lap  and 
holding  the  reins  loosely,  we(r^  pulled  back  and  forth 
by  the  jogging  broWn  horse.  Jane  recognized  in  the 
woman  Mrs.  Petersen,  her  nearest  neighbor,  and  half 
hungrily  surmised  that  i^e  was  r6!turning  home  from  a 
meeting  of  the  **  Tuesday  Social  Glub."  The  buggy 
leisurely  passiad  the  house  and  disappeared  along  the 
dusty  lane. 

Suddenly,  in  one  rush  of  emotion,  the  whole  barren- 
ness of  Jane's  lot  oame  over  her.  She  ^thought  of  the 
long  days  filled  with  unceasing  labor— the  dull,  gray 
days  that  stretched  endlessly  behind  her  and  yet  more 
endlessly  before  her.  Her  life  seamed  one  wearying 
round  of  dish-washing  and  cooking,  of  going  to  bed  ut- 
terly worn  out  and  of  rising  next  morning  just  as  tired 
as^  she  had  beeti  the  night  befbre.  She  felt  a  terrible 
grudge  rise  in  her  against  her  husband — and  she  al- 
lowed this  grudge  now  to  fill  her  soul  completely,  in- 


•    THE  AKTISTIO  GEOUP  441 

stead  of  crushing  out  sach  feelilags  as  she  bad  hitherto 
done.  Why  had  he  never  helped  her  to  have  a  good 
time  as  other  women  hadf  Why  had  he  forgotten  that 
she  was  a  woman  and  fond  of  dainty  things?  She 
thought  of  the  stem  young  fellow  who  had  courted  h«r 
when  she  wais  a  girl4-so  very  long  ago  that  was.  And 
how  she  had  married  him,  and  how  proud  she  had  been 
of  him,  and  how  she  had  boasted  of  Ms  thrift  to  all  her 
neighbors.  And  theb  she  remembered  how  sternness  which 
she  admired  in.  the* youth  had  changed  into  surliness  in 
the  man;  how  gradually — ^Bttle  by  little-Hshe  had  lost 
hope — she  who  had  hoped  for  so  much  and  had 
had  io  little  given  her.  On  her,  tod  on  her  alone, 
the  brunt  of  all  his  displeasure  and  of  all  his  wrath  had 
fallen.  . 

Then  suddenlj^  her  face  cleared,  as  sh6  heard  a 
sleepy  yawn  from  the  b^;  little  Meg  lay  watching^ 
her,  her  sleep-filled  eyes  smiling  their  same  braved  smite. 
At  least,.  Jiane  thbught^  she  had  Meg — and  Dan's  wife 
had  not  even  had  a. Meg.  I>an*s  wife  had  never  known 
thie  sweetneiis  of  clinging  hands  and  the  comfort  of 
damp  baby  kiBses.  So  <^veii  for  her,  life  still  held  oota- 
pensation.  She  looked  out  at  the  west  where  the  riot- 
ous reds  had  now  faded  to -soft  rose  and  gr&y.  The  out- 
lines of  the  woods  were  softened  aiSidthe^ nodding  tree- 
tops  seemed  beoboning  her  to  oome  away  with  theta. 
Almost  involuntarily  the  woman^stretchediout  her  hands 
towards' the  trees,  and  her  hungry  eyes  filled  with  tears. 
Perhaps  some  day,  when  dittle  Meg  became  stroAjger — 
perhaps 'iwme  day  they  two— juiSt  they— *might  go  away 
somewhere. together— somewherri  wherie  the  world  was  all 
soft  rose  and  gray,  where  there  were  no  «ndless  days  of 


442       ^TYPE9  OF  PEOSE  NABRATIVES 

toil,  no  angry  voice,  notiiing  but  peace.    Tlien  perhaps 
Meg  would — 

**  Jane,"  a  rough  voice  broke  in  on  her  musings,  **fer 
God's  sake,  woman,  what  ails  yel  Seven  o'clock  an'  no 
bite  to  eat  ready!" 

Jane  hurriedly  rose  from  the  window.  For  the  first 
time  in  her  life  she  had  let  her  day*dreams  really  make 
her  forget  her  dull,  common-place  world.  She  stopped 
to  smooth  Meg's  moist  curls,  sxtd  ran  downstairs.  There 
at  the  foot  stood  her  husband,  a  whole  day's  displeasure 
frowning  forth  in  his  face,  an  angry  light  in  his  eyes. 

**I  know  it's  late,  Jim — it's  too  bad,"  Jane  faltered, 
"but  you  never  had  to  wait  before.  I  was  busy — ^I  was 
thinking— I—" 

"Busy!"  he  sneered.  **Busy!  Setl^in'  down  doin' 
nothin'  but  hushin'  that  blamed  brat.  Let  her  alone. 
She  ain't  only  a  nuisance  anyhow — spend  yer  time  on 
something  worth  while." 

Half  unconsciously  Jane  looked  at  her  hands;  the 
forefinger  of  the  right  wa»  rough  and  needle-pricked, 
and  her  hands  were  red  and  raw  from  much  dish-wash- 
ing and  cleaning.  She  thought  to  herself  how  often  riie 
longed  to  caress  little  Meg,  to  hug  her  and  rock  her  for 
a  whole  afternoon,  to  love,  love,  love  her  to  her  heart's 
content — ^but  she  had  never  found  time.  Then  her  hus- 
band's last  cutting  words  came  back  to  her.  She  took 
a  step  forward,  the  suffering  of  years  in  her  face.  The 
red  spots  on  her  cheeks  were  very  red  now.  "Can  I 
help  it,"  she  gasped,  "that  my  baby  is  a  puny  little 
thing?  Is  it  my  fault?  What  care  has  she  ever  had, 
excepting  what  I  have  been  able  to  steal  for  hert  If 
vou  were  a  man  like  other  men — ^not  a  brute — then  per- 


THE  ARTISTIC  GROUP  443 

haps  you  would  understand  I"    She  clinched  her  hand 
and  looked  defiantly  up  into  his  face. 

Jim  stood  still  for  a  moment,  a^itonished  at  the  out- 
burst from  his  meek  wife.  Then  his  quick  anger  blazed 
up,  and,  lifting  his  big  hand,  he  struck  Jane  full  in  the 
face.  She  fell  back  against  the  stairway,  her  face  white, 
save  for  the  red  spots  which  were  livid  now.  Her  eyes. 
were  full  of  tears  from  the  force  of  the  blow.  She  heard 
Jim's  voice  from  a  distance. 

**No  use  waitin'  here  forever,*'  h^  grumbled.  "I'll 
go  to  Reynold's  an'  get  a  bite;  his  wife'U  probably  have 
it  waitin'."  And  she  saw  him  turn  to  the  door  along 
which  Meg  just  came  tapping.  The  child  hurried  to 
get  out  of  his  way.  Jim  slouched  heavily  through  the 
room,  and  out  of  the  house,  his  big  boots  creaking  as  he 
went. 

Jane  sat  down  on  the  step.  Her  head  ached  from 
the  force  of  the  blow.  She  felt  dazed  with  the  sudden- 
ness of  everything.  Little  Meg  came  and  sat  down  be- 
side her,  patting  Jane's  rough  hand  with  her  soft  palm 
to  attract  her  attention;  then  she  settled  down  quietly 
beside  her,  her  bright  head  leaning  on  her  mother's 
apron.  Darkness  came,  but  Jane  did  not  stir.  Meg  had 
gone  to  sleep. 

Suddenly  the  crutch  beside  them  slipped  and  rat- 
tled against  the  wall.  Meg  woke  and  cried  out  with 
fright.  Jane  absently  took  the  child  in  her  arms  and 
tried  to  soothe  her,  but  Meg  was  thoroughly  frightened 
and  refused  to  be  comforted.  At  length  she  was  quiet 
and  Jane  carried  her  to  bed.  In  a  few  moments,  her 
baby-fear  forgotten, .  she  was  again  fast  asleep.  Jane- 
went  over  to  the  window  and  crouched  there^  bitter*^ 


444  TYPES  Oi*  PROSE  NABlKATIVES 

ness  in  her  heart.  Over  in  the  west  the  shadowy  out- 
lines of  the  trees  looked  mysterious,  aloof,  unsympa- 
thetic ;  so  did  the  cold  white  stars  over  them.  Sympathy 
seemed  to  have  gone  out  of  everything  in  the  whole 
world.  And  Jane  leaned  heavily  on  the  sill  and  thought. 
For  a  long  time  she  sat  there,  until  she  heard  Meg 
stir  restlessly  on  the  bed.  Then  she  rose  and  looked 
mechanically  towards  the  Reynolds  house.  A  bright 
light  burned  in  a  lower  room,  so  she  knew  that  her  hus- 
band was  still  there,  talking  over  the  day'iS  affairs  with 
Farmer  Reynolds.  Her  husband!  She  felt  a  sudden 
shrinking  at  the  mere  word.  She  decided  that  she  hated 
him,  she  knew  that  she  hated  him,  with  the  pent-up 
hatred  of  years.  And  she  shuddered  when  she  thought 
of  to-morrow  and  the  next  to-morrow,  and  all  the  dull 
to-morrows  that  would  have  to  come — ^and  he  must  be  in 
them  all ;  that  was  the  thought  which  made  her  sick  and 
faint.  She  lay  down  on  the  bed  beside  Meg,  merely 
loosening  her  waist  and  uncoiling  h^  hair.  Physical 
weariness  brought  a  dreamless  sleep.  She  woke  with  a 
start,  after  a  sleep  that  seemed  to  have  lasted  for  cen- 
turies* There  was  strange  noises  dowiMtairs — gruflf,  muf- 
fled voices,  queer  shuffling  as  of  heavy  boots,  and  then  a 
sudden  scraping  against  the  outer  door.  With  a  quick 
unreasoning  fear  at  her  heart,  Jane  flew  down  the  stairs 
and  out  into  the  kitchen.  Some  one  had  lighted  the  oil 
lamp  there.  Her. eyes. saw  at  first  only  a  blurred  group 
before  her*  Her  vision  cleared  gradually,  until  the  blur 
resolved  itself  into  four  m^n,  with  alarmed,  puzzled 
&ces,  who  were  carrying  iteveral  boards  on  which  lay 
something  eoveried  with  a  big  coat.  Jane  held  her  breath, 
while  the  men  looked  sheepishly  at  one  iandther.    Then 


THE  AKTISTIC  GROUP  445 

she  ran  to  the  h^np,  lifted  th#  coal;,  .aad  looked  dowiii 
at  her  husband.  His  face  was  b^rd  and  set^  the  jaw 
projecting;  but  the  usual  sneer  w^  gone  from  his  nwuth, 
and  his  claimed  eyes  gave  him  an  expxessioA  of  peace. 
Jane  dropped  the  coat  as  if  .dazed  and  turned  helplessly 
to  the  men.  They,  eqwlly  jKeipless,  nudged  Parmer 
Reynolds  forward  to  act  as  spokesman.  His  big,  kindly 
face  was  abashed  and  sqlemn,'  his  fingers  nervously 
twirled  his  rough  cap*  ,      ; 

**It  was  a  stroke,  mum,'',  he  managed  to  jerk  out 
at  last,  **some  kind  of  a  fit,  Doc  says.  It  carried  him 
right,  off,  too,,  quicker 'n  a  wink,  an'  not  a  mite  o'  pain. 
There  he  was  a-sittin'  an'  scrappin'  like  a  good  feller 
one  minute — an'  then,. his -faoe  «kind  0'  went  pale,  an' 
over  he  keejed.  First  we  kjp<ew  it  was  him  on  the  floor, 
clean  knocked  opt."  Reynolds  was  becoming  garrulous 
in  his  effprts  to  relieve  the  embarrassment  of  the  sit- 
uation, but  Jaip^e  had.  already ; forgotten  him.  They  had 
laid  Jim  on  the  floor  and  Jane  sat  down  beside  hitn, 
carefully  adjusting  his  tumbled  -<?oat  and  s^iootbing  the 
rough  hair  off  his  low,  forehead.  She,  did  it  all  in  a  calm 
and  matter-of-fact  wj^-y.  The  mep  looked  helplessly  at 
one  another,  while  Jane,  utterly,  unconscious  of.  them, 
continued  her  ministrations  to  the  dead.  Was  it  a  few 
hours  ago  or  was  it. many  years  ago  that, she  had  vowed 
never  to  call  him  husband  again?  .She. had  forgotten-— 
after  alj,  it  didn't  matter.  Nothing  really  .mattered 
now.  . 

Suddenly  there  came  a  tapping  dowi^  the  steps.  The 
stair  door  was  pushed  open,  and  a  towsled,  barefooted, 
night-gow;ned  little  figure  appeared  on  the  threshold.. 
* '  JMpther, ' '  Meg  quivered,  *  *  where  are  you  ? ' '    When  she 


446  TYPES  OF  PfiOSE  NAHBATIVES 

saw  her  mother,  she  made  straight  for  her,  almost 
tumbling  over  the  crutch  in  her  haste.  She  threw  her 
armsr  lovingly  around  her  mother's  neck.  Jane  started — 
the  queer,  dazed  look  left  her  eyes,  though  her  cheeks 
were  still  pale,  save  for  one  long  red  mark.  With  a  lit- 
tle sob  she  turned,  crushed  the  child  to  her,  and  began 
to  cry. 

**0h,  but  we  did  love  him,  Meg,  didn't  we?"  she 
sobbed.  **And  he  was  good  to  us,  just  as  good  as  he 
knew  how  to  be.  Oh,  Meg,  Meg,  if  I  had  only  been  a 
better  wife  to  himl'' 

— ^Katherine  Kurz. 

When  Terry  "Qwlt** 

**Gad  I  and  to  think,  Jim,  that  I  ever  lived  on  Front 
street!'*  The  frock-coated,  silk-hatted  stage  manager 
removed  the  big  black  cigar  from  his  mouth,  and  with  a 
pudgy  little  finger,  on  which  sparkled  a  blue  diamond 
of  tmusual  size,  he  flicked  away  the  ashes.  **  Though  it 
really  was  a  rather  decent  sort  of  a  place  then,  you 
know."  He  addressed  his  companion,  a  press-agent, 
first,  however,  carefully  readjusting  the  cigar  so  that  it 
should  be  at  such  an  angle  to  his  lips  as  to  suggest 
sportiness. 

Now,  the  south  side  of  the  thoroughfare  just  men- 
tioned consists  chiefly  of  warehouses  and  saloons,  the 
north  side  chiefly  of  saloons  and  pawnshops.  On  sum- 
mer days  the  street  squirms  with  chickens,  bulldogs  and 
babies ;  but  on  the  warm  evenings,  when  the  pawnshops 
and  the  warehouses  are  closed,  when  the  saloons  are 
doing  a  lucrative  business,  then  the  chickens  roost  on 
the  back  fences,  the  bulldogs  doze  lazily  on  the  stone 


THE  ABTISTIC  GBOUP  447 

flaggings^  and  in  the  stuffy  little  sleeping  apartments 
above  the  saloons  the  children  of  the  saloon-keepers 
dream  of  the  envy  which,  by  means  of  delicious  chili- 
sauce  sandwiches,  they  will  create  the  next  day/  among 
the  children  of  the  pawnbrokers. 

The  two  men  were  now  approaching  the  most  pros- 
perous saloon  in  the  street.  Streams  of  light,  coming 
from  both  above  and  below  the  little  green  baize  door, 
shone  on  a  swinging  signboard.  **Tim  Dagan's  Cafe," 
the  gilt  letters  informed  any  who  were  unacquainted 
with  the  neighborhood.  Boorish  men  could  be  heard 
calling  jocularly  for  more  beer,  and  the  constant  slam- 
ming of  the  cash  drawer  mingled  with  the  clinking  of 
heayy  glasses. 

'*A  song!  It's  time  fer  a  chune!"  called  a  raucous 
voice. 

'*Aha,  yer  right  there,  it's  Terry  fer  us,"  acquiesced 
one  of  the  crowd. 

''Terry!  Terry!  it's  oop  on  the  table  fer  ye,  Terry." 
The  cry  was  accompanied  by  much  loud  laughter  and 
the  shufiBing  of  heavy  boots.  Labor-hardened  hands 
clapped  approval,  and  then  for  a  moment  there  was 
silence. 

**  *A  sailor's  wife  a  sailor's  star  shall  be.*  " 

The  sweet,  though  untrained  tenor  voice,  rang  high 
and  clear. 

''  *Yo-ho-oh,  boyoys,  ho—'  " 

The  two  fashionably  dressed  men  stopped  in  front 
of  the  short  door. 

'*Jove!  what  a  voice!"  the  manager  breathed. 

*'  *A  long,  long  life  to  my  sweet  wife!'  " 

No  sound  interrupted  the  ringing  sailor  ballad. 


44,8  .       TYPES  OP  PRO»E  NABRATIVES 

** Let's  go  in  and  have  a  drink/'  suggested  the  press- 
agent,  when  the  song  was  finished. 

As  unobtrusively  as  possible  the  two  men  entered. 
"More!  more  !*'  the  appreciative,  if  unschooled,  audi- 
ence was  demanding,  and  in  the  clatter  of  applause  the 
irtrangers  were  unnoticed. 

*'  *I  have  come  to  say  good-bye,  Dolly  Grey.'  *' 

The  then  new  popular  song  thrilled  the  listeners 
with  its  martial  rhythm,  as  the  plaintive  cadences  of 
the  beautiful  voice  rang  in  their  ears. 

**  *  Good-bye,  Dolly,  I  must  leave  you.'  '* 

The  singer's  glance  fell  on  the  new  listeners.  His 
merry  eyes  wavered  and  his  face  flushed  until  it  became 
as  red  as  his  curly  hair.    He  stopped  short  in  the  chorus. 

**I  guess  it's  me  that's  been  yowling  anough  fer  tu- 
night,  byes,"  he  mumbled,  as  he  climbed  down  from  the 
itaMe  and,  sliding  b^fnd  the  eouiiter,  doniied  the  white 
apron  which  proclaimed  him  a  bartender. 

*'Wy,  Terry,  wat's  the  matter  wit  yet  We  got  a 
have  one  more  afore  ye  quit.- * 

But  Terry  shook  his  head  vigorously  in  an  emphatic 
"no,"  as  he  rapidly  cleaned  the  thick  glasses. 

The  two  men  from  the  world  of  dazzling  footlights 
ordered  drinksj  paid  doubly  for  them,  made  a  bluff  at 
enjoying  the  poor  liquot,  and  then  quietly  left  the  cafe, 
and  continued  their  walk  past  the  warehouses,  pawn- 
shops and  saloons  of  Front  street. 

The  next  mornibg,  when  the  heavy  wagons  were  rat- 
tling over  the  cobble-stones  of  the  narrow,  dirty  thorough- 
fare, and  the  children  of  the  pawnbrokers  were  engaged 
in  throwing  **spit-balliS"  at  the  children  of  the  saloon- 
keepers, ^'Tim  Dugan's  Caf&"  was  for  the  second  time 


THE  ARTISTIC  GBOUP .  449 

honored  with  the  entrance  of  the  stage-manager  of  the 
minstrel  show  which  was  to  be  in.towli  the  next  ^eek: 
This  potentate  had  come  on  ahead  of  his  company  to 
adjust  some  little  difScUlty  with  the  play-house  owners, 
and  now  that  that  business  had  been  settled,  another  mat* 
ter  of  importance  presented  itself:  the  tenor  soloist,  no 
longer  in  his  prime,  had  left. 

The  manager  sauntered  up  to  the.  bar,  rested  his 
right  elbow  on  the  marhb  sla1>,  settled  his  ^^silk"  hat 
more  comfortably  on  his  head,  shoved  his  left  hand  deep 
into  his  trousers'  po<?b^t — ^whereupon  aii  attractive  chink- 
ing i^und  could  be  heard^— and  ordssed  his  gaitered  feet; 

'*One,"  he  announced,  and  the  ruddy*haired  Irish 
lad,  who  bad  been  busy  washing  glasses^  quickly,  deftly,- 
filled  a  mug  with  frothy  beer^U 

**Ahem!''  Th^  manager  puffed  up  ,his  heavy  chest 
and  leaned  both  elbows  on  the  bar. 

Then,  ensued  a  whispered  dialogue,. "during  which 
Terry  Flynn'^  laughing  eyes  alternately  ^ew  rouiid  with 
wonder  and  twirfdjed  with  pleasttreu ' 

'*  Sorry  r*  gasped  the  bartender  at  last,  "i»t  a  bit 
of  it.  Ye  cin.  bet  yer  shiny,  boots,  an'  it's  me  as  '11 
do  it!" 

The  manager,  smiling  with  the  satisfaction  of  having 
clinched  an. excellent  bargain,  made  his  way  among  the 
chickens,  bulldogs  and  babies^  of  Front  street  and  soon 
left  .the  beery  atmosphere  f ai*  behind  him. 

Terry,  however,  kept  hij^own  council.  Not  until  the 
following  Mon^^y  did  he  give  any  information  concerii- 
ing  the  identity  of  the '  ^swell  gent ' '  whohad  so  strangely 
visited  him..   . 

Then  how  the  inhabitants  of  Front  street  rejoiced  I 


460  TYPES  OP  PBOSE  NAlRBATlVES 

Terry  Plynn — often  called  ** Irish'*  for  short — ^red- 
beaded  Terry  Flynn,  who  had  many  a  time  caused  a 
quarrel  to  be  forgotten  by  breaking  into  a  song  as  he 
rattled  the  mugs  on  the  bar — Terry — ^their  Terry — ^waa 
going  on  the  stage !  He  would  own  a  silk  tile,  and  wear 
diamond  studs — ^but  he  would  sing  no  more  for  Front 
street. 

How  the  bony-fisted,  generous  men,  in  spite  of  their 
keen  regret  at  losing  him,  rejoiced  in  Terry's  good 
fortune ! 

**Ha'n't  I  said,  ag'in  an'  ag'in,  as  Terry  could 
sing  twieet  as  finie  as  the  feller  'at  sang  'atween  the  aeks 
o'  ^ Uncle  Tom's  Cabin,'  one  time  w'en  I  went  an'  seen 
itt    Ha 'n't  I  now?"  queried  a  delighted  teamster. 

**Aye,  that  ye  'ave,  Jawn,  that  ye  'ave,"  replied  a 
pensioned  sailor,  also  jubihtnt  over  the  fame  in  store  for 
Terry. 

As  for  Terry  himself,  he  had  not  yet  recovered  from 
his  .surprise,,  and  so  had  little  room  for  other  emotions. 
He  was  too  ignorant,  too  fresh  from  his  peat-carrying 
labors  lathe  riaamrock  country,  to  have  any  fear  of  stage 
fri^t.  -Indeed,  that  word  was  not  in  his  stunted  vo- 
cabulary. 

He  went  that  afternoon  to  rehearse  ** Nancy  Lee," 
with  the  rest  of  the  company,  newly  arrived,  who  were 
to  join  him  in  the  *'yo-ho's."  How  well  the  song 
sounded  when  supplemented  by  such  a  chorus!  Terry's 
Wood  quickened!  He  did  not  observe  the  coldness  of  the 
other  singers  towardis  him.  He  would  have  eared  little 
if  be  bad  felt  the  lack  odf  friendliness,  for  so  sunny  was 
his  Irish  temperament,  so  strong  his  Irish  independence 
and  congeniality,  that  he  would  not  easily  have  lost 


THE  ABTI8TIC  GROUP  451 

hope  of  winning  the  good  will  of  his  associates.  More* 
over  Terry  was  so  humble  that  he  would  rather  hare 
expected  them  to  stand  a  little  aloof  at  first;  but  when, 
black-faced  and  white-gloved,  he  stood  upon  the  great 
stage  of  the  Opera  House,  and  filled  the  domed  audi* 
torium  with  his  strong,  beautiful  tenor  notes,  he  knew 
nothing  save  that  he  was  one  of  *Hhem  actor  fellows" 
now ;  that  the  men  and  women  from  the  world  of  wealth 
were  listening  to  him.  His  eyes  sparkled  with  excite- 
ment. 

**A  long,  long  life  to  my  sweet  wife,*'  he  sang- 

In  the  silence  of  the  people  Terry  instinctively  rec- 
ognized their  appreciation. 

*' Nancy  Lee-—" 

The  vaulted  ceiling  sent  the  rounds  high  notes  back 
to  the  eager  ears  of  the  audience. 

"Yo-ho-boyoys,  ho — " 

The  '*yo-ho"  didn't  sound  with  the  proper  vigor. 
It  was  flat.  A  frown  appeared  between  Terry's  ai-ched 
eyebrows.  He  was  singing  his  **Yo-ho's"  alone! 
Slowly  he  turned,  still  singing,  to  face  the  other  min- 
strels. Some  one  snickered,  **I>o  you  see  us  singing 
v^ith  a  b^r-tender^' 

*^Nance— " 

Terry  stopped.  A  calloused  fist,  with  strong  mus- 
cle and  Irish  temper  to  speed  it,  shot  out. 

*' Curtain!"  called  the  manager,  wildly.  The  au- 
dience, though  somewhat  surprised,  accepted  this  pei*- 
formance  as  a  ridiculous  climatic  ending  to  one  of  the 
** stunts,"  and  gave  a  vigorous  applause.  But  Terry 
heeded  neither  applause  nor  curtain.  He  was  demon- 
strating to  these  unmannerly  show  men,  that  though 


452  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

tiiey  might  refuse  to  sing  with  a  bar^tendeor,  they  could 
not  refuse  to  accept  from  one  a  lesson  in  pu^lism. 

Terry  paused  to  take  a  long  breath.  He  ^ared  at 
the  men,  one  of  whom  was  holding  a  handkerchief  to  a 
rapidly  swelling  eye,  another  of  whom  was  hugging  an 
ajehing  side.  Terry  had  done  his  work  quickly.  The 
manager  hastened  up  to  interfere. 
:  **They  might  a'  told  me  so  afore.  It  isn't  me  as 
they  need  be  makin'  a  fool  of.  I'm  made  as  good  as 
them,  even  if  it  do  be  a  truth  that  I  sell  the  beer  they 
drink,"  Teryy  said,  dazed.  He  picked  up  the  bat- 
tered operathat  which  had  been  part  of  his  costume  and 
started  towards  the  door. 

'*My  dear  Mr.  Flynn,  I  will  adjust  this  little  mis- 
understandiilg.    I  lussure  jou,  it  shall  not  occur  again." 

Terry  turned.  **Why,"  he  laughed  strangely,  as 
he  picked  a  bit  of  lint  from  his  sleeve.  ** Aren't  ye 
knowjn'?  I'd  b^  agham^d  t'  sing  with  such  dum  poor 
excu/aes  fer  m^n,"  he  replied,  and  .made  his  way  down 
the  rickety  stairway,  to  the  street,,  not  stopping  even 
to  :r^mov»  the;  gr-eai3e-paint.   , 

*Mt's  them  as  might  a  been  men,  and  told  me,"  he 
sobbed  as  he  walked  slowly  back  again  to  dirty,  ill- 
lighted  Front  street,  to  don  again  his  white  apron;  to 
pasjsi  the  amher-colpred  foaoaay  liquid,  over  the  bar;  to 
sing  '* Nancy  Lee". in  Tim  Dugan's  Cafe;  to  sing  for 
the  rough  fl;ien  who  ^ould  deem  it  a  sacrilege  to  lift 
their  harsh  voices  with  Terry's  sweet  plaintive  tones. 

— ^Dorothela  G,  Knoblock. 


THE  ABTISTIG  GKOXJP  453 

Hbra  Titay  and  Chiquito 

Nora  Titay,  a  "widow  of  fifty,  cJame  hosme  from  the 
gambling  hoiise  ob6  afternooiL  in  bad  humor.  Her  hair 
hung  carelfsasly  oyer. her  wrinWed  face,  which  always 
looked  ai^.  if  it  had  b^en  dipped  in  a  barrel  of  flour.  As 
she  wa^ed  along  the  street,  ^he  spat  and  muttered j  with 
her  mou{th;fnIl  of  hmfo,  **Pshe>  this  cursed  panguingue 
will  ruin  me.  I  had.  bad  luck  this  we.ek.  .Yesterday  I 
lost  ten. pesos,  and  now  t^^elve.  I  haven't  a  single  penny 
left.  I  wonder  where  Rosa  aiid  I  will  get  the  money  to 
buy  our  food, .  I  have  sold  her  ring  to  pay  my  djebts. 
To-morrow,  there  will  be  another  game.  I  shall  play 
again  to.seje  if,  I  can  re«?over  what  I  have  Idst.  But 
where  sb^U  I  get  njoney  ?  Oh,  I  see !  Chiquito  is  coming 
to-ni|g]it  to,  qo)irt  Rpga.  He  is. very  rich,  and  is  willing 
to.  give  anythi?ig  he  ^asif  he  can  only  win  my  daugh- 
ter's love..  But  foolish. girl!  She  does  not  like  him,  be- 
cause he  is  a  Ghinamw.  She  prefers  to  love  that  poor, 
simple  student,  Pedro,  i  will  force  her  t6  matry 
Chiquito;  then  I  can  play  panguingue  at. any  time.  I 
shall  sooi^  be  rich."  .  '  ■        .   .  -     . 

''Ros^,".said  Jit^y  a«  aoom  as  she  aorrivBd  at  the 
house,  *'you  must  Iwk  well  tornight,  for  Chiquito  is  com- 
ing. You  must  not  show  any  ^ur  face  to  him.  I  want 
you  to  marry  him  whether  you  like  to  or  no.  Do- you  un- 
derstand me?  Now,  <ion't  say  anythingj  or  I  will  whip 
you,"  said  Titay,  serioui^Jy.  .  ''iWhy  dooi't  you  marry 
him  yourself,  mamnia?  You /will  be  a, good  partner  for 
him  since. yoia  love  him  better  than  I  do,':'  said  Rosa 
laughing.  **Wha|t,  you  foolish  girlL  Do  you  mean  to 
joke  me,  your  mpther  ?    I  am  looking  out  for  your  good, ' ' 


454  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NARKATIVES 

said  Titay  angrily,  then  slapped  and.  pinched  her  daugh- 
ter.   They  were  still  quarreling  when  Chiquito  came. 

**Buena  noche,  Nola  Tetay  y  Se'nolita  Losa,"  said 
Chiquito  in  his  poor  Spanish,  when  he  came. 

''Buenas  noches,  Chiquito,''  replied  Titay  with  a 
smile.  ''Here  is  a  basket  of  oranges  and  iikoy  for  you 
and  Senolita  Losa,"  said  Chiquito,  while  he  was  uncover- 
ing the  basket.  *  'What  a  very  good  son-in-law,  I  have ! " 
murmured  Titay.  "Chiqtiito,  to-morrow  afternoon  you 
must  come  here  ready  to  marry  Rosa.  Bring  a.  priest 
with  you,  and  get  a  wedding  dress  for  her.  But,  by  the 
way,  lend  me  a  sum  of  money,  for  I  must  buy  some- 
thing." Chiquito  was  so  glad  that  he  immediately 
handed  to  her  his  purse.  "What  kind  of  dress  shall  I 
bring,  mother  T'  asked  Chiquito  eagerly.  **You  must 
ask  Rosa  about  that,"  murmured  Titay.  Chiquito  went 
to  Rosa,  who  was  looking  out  of  the  window,  absorbed 
in  thought.  "Senolita  Losa,  what  kind  of  dress  should 
you  like  for  ,our  wedding  t"  asked  Chiquito  politely. 
^^Baboyi  (swine)  what  wedding  do  you  mean?  Do  you 
think  I  would  marry  you,  haboyf"  said  Rosa,  angrily. 
"Your  mother  told  me  that  I  must  come  here  to-morrow 
afternoon,  and  you  and  I  should  be  married,"  said 
Chiquito.  "You  had  better  inarry  mother.  She  is  more 
fit  for  you.  Now,  go  away."  Nora  Titay  was  so  busily 
counting  her  money  and  thinking  how  many  times  she 
could  play  panguingue  with  it  that  she  did  not  hear  the 
qiaarrel.  "Nola  Tetay,- Losa  is  angry  with  me.  She  does 
not  want  to  marry  me,"  said  Chiquito. 

"Never  mind,  you  can  go  home  now,  Chiquito,  and  be 
ready  for  to-morrow.  I  will  see  that  she  accepts  the 
proposal,"  said  Titay.    Chiquito  went  home  gladly^,  and 


THE  ARTISTIC  GBOXTP  455 

Titay  got; busy  compelling  Rosa  to  marry  Chiquito,  till 
the  daughter  was  forced  to  make  a  promise; 

The  next  day»  at  the  appointed  hour,  Chiquito  came 
with  a  priest.  But  Rosa  could  not  be  found  in  the 
house.  A  letter  was  found  instead  saying  that  Rosa,  had 
eloped  with  Pedro.  Chiquito,  diisliking  to  lose  his  money, 
asked  for.  Titay's  hand.  They  were  married  that  very 
day. 

— Joaquina  E.  Tirona. 

ni.   The  Story  That  Emphasizes  Character  and  Events 

Obviously  the  character-events  story  is  different 
from  the  eharacter-plaee  story  just  in  the  emphasis  and 
because  of  it.    The  personality  of  the  chief 
actor  of  a  story  of  events  does  not  necea-  Difference 
sarily  spring  from  the  scene  of  action.    In  t)etween 
fact,  the  personality  very  often  is  in  strong  place  stoiy 
contrast:  with  the  place.     A  soldier  for  in-  and  char- 
stance  by  some  chance  may  be  left  stranded  ev«nte 
on  an  oasis  in  the  desert ;  the  purpose  of  the  **<>'7  . 
writer  in  having  him  there  may  be  to  set 
forth  a  number  of  strange  occurrences  that  britig  put 
his  character,  or  the  author  may  wish  to  demonstrate 
some  truth  about  wild  animials*    A  woman  may  be  on  ^ 
Pullman  ear  bi'inging  her  dying  husband  home  with. her 
from  Denver  to  New  York.  The  author  will  then  be  con- 
cerned with  an  analysis  of  the  woman's  mind  as  events 
come  to  her.  Aperson.may  be  standing  at  the  prisoner's 
dock  and  may  tell  his  life.     Place  will  concern  the 
author  a  ^reat  deal  in  a  certain  sense,  but  it  will  be 
not  the  character-making  place,  but  the  event-making 


456  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARBATIVES 

place, — the  battle-ground,  the  cricket  field.  U  a  differ- 
ent character  met  the  same  events. in  the  same  place, 
he  might  act  otherwise.  It  is  the  conjunctioin  of  charac- 
ter and  events  that  tiie  author  is  revealing  and  the 
reader  watching.  Let  ns  name  over  a  few  of  the  great 
stories  and  collections  of  this  kind  to  see  if  the  titles 
suggest  anything:  ''The  Necklace"  by  Maupassant; 
**The  Father''  by  Bjornson;  '*The  Siege  of  Berlin"  by 
Daudet;  ''The  Substitute"  by  Coppee;  ''The  Insurg- 
ent"  by  Halevy;  "Mateo  Falcone"  by  Merimee;  *'The 
Shot"  by,  Pushkin  J  "The  Greater  Inclination,"  "Cru- 
cial Instances,"  "The  Descent  of  Man,  and  Other 
Stories,"  by  Mrs.  Wharton. 

We  might  say  that  the  representative  short-story  of 
this  type  is  a  combination  of  romanticism,  realism, 
metaphysics,    and   modern    rjournalism.     A 
elements^    ooncentrated  extract  of  the  work  of  Scott, 
oftMs         Jane  Austen,  Thackeray,  George  Eliot  and 
^®  Beade.    The  list  suggests  the  history  of  the 

novel  sincfe  BHelding^s  day  and  the  elements  it  acquired 
and  transmitted  to  . the:  short^story.  You  have  prob- 
ably studied  how  Scottj  when  Lord  Byron  dut^ran  him, 
turned  frdm'  metrical  to  prose  roniance;  how  Scott 
created  with  the  "'Waverley  Novels"  (which  of  course 
are  not  novels  in  the  usual  sense)  a  new  romance,  the 
historioal,  which  ihimediattely  t6ok  its  place  as  a  per- 
manent type  of  literature.  On  the  side  of  stirring 
events  our  present  short-story  often  epitomises  Scott. 
Hte'riaid  himself  he' wrote  for  soldiers,  saitors,  and  young 
people  of  bold  and  daring  dispositions.  There  is  no 
limit,  therefore,  in  choice  of  eveints.  The  record  may 
■)  the  most  startling.    It  usually,  however,  is  not  ex- 


THJ3  ARTISTIC  GBOUP  457 

travagant  beyond  what  a  healthy  and  cheerful  imagi- 
nation can  enjoy.  Our  temperance  is  due  no  doubt  to 
the  restraining  influenee  t)f  Jane  Austen  and /her  Jate 
followers  in  realism.  She  tried  to  teach  her  own  age 
to  laugh  at  itself  good-naturedly  and  to  bridle  romance 
with  common  sense.  **Northanger  Abbey,"  written  in 
1798,  was  a  direct  satire  of  the  terror  school,  which  was 
popular  before  her  day  and  Seott's.  Mode(ms  have  en- 
throned Jane  Austen  as  a  perfect  artist,  and  all  good 
fiction  writers  have  learned  the  lesson  she  taught.  In 
general,  her  work  belongs  with  the  story  that  empha- 
sizes mianners  and  environment;  but  her  most  popular 
novel,  ** Pride  and  Prejudice,"  has  in  addition  to  the 
reflection  of  environment  a  sequence  of  interesting 
events  and  a  spiritednees  that  together  make  it  an 
extended  prototype  of  the  story  that  em'phasizes  both 
chariacter  and  happenings.  To  Scott's  boldness  and 
Jane  Austen's  satiric  restrain*^  time  added  Gedrge 
Eliot's  metaphysical  curiosity.  Since  her  day  we  are 
all  interested  in  duty,  destiny,  freedom  of  will,  mind^ 
habit.  She  showed  us  ho\^  a  neighborly  man  becomes  a 
miser,  how  a  miser  becomes  once  more  a  neighborly 
man;  how  a  lovable  but  morally  and  physically  timid 
man  becomes  a  scoundrel.  Most  of  our  short  stories 
now-'a-days  display  an  eliiment  of  such  analysis;  many 
of  them  are  wh-ofly  constituted  upon  an  inquiry ;  some, 
beginning  just  in  front  of  the  crisis,  give. us  a.  feeling 
of  past  complicating  events,  and  with  one  flash  show  us 
the  present  tangle;  others  with  a  swift  relentlessness 
pile  happening  upon  happening  until,  panting  for 
breath,  w^  stumble  upon  the  momentous  climax.  Very 
often,  too,  at  the  end,  we  are  left  in  an  atmosphere  of 


468  TYPES  OP  PBOSE  NARBATIVES 

pessimism — sometimes  it  is  ouly  a  eompaBionable  little 
chill  like  that  Thaekeray  used  to  give  us,  wherein, 
laughing  and  ebattering,  we  shake  hands  with  our 
brothers  to  keep  warm;  sometimes,  it  is  like  Maupas- 
sant's, a  hard,  dull  bitterness  of  cold-^ 

"A  chill  no  coat  hofwever  stout, 
Of  homespun  stuff  ean  quite  shut  out/' 

"Wherever  the  pessimism  comes  from,"  almost  invari- 
ably a  little  bit  of  it  joins  swiftness,  realism,  meta- 
physical curiosity,  and  one  other  element  probably  in- 
herited from  thepiovel;  namely,  a  striking  semblance 
of  actuality.  No  matter  how  thrillii:ig  the  events  may 
be,  they  are  usually  convincing.  Charles  Beade  had 
the  trick  of  taking  his  facts  from  newspaper  reports. 
Many  of  our  present-day  writers  keep  a  scrap-book, 
and  they  very  often  build  their  most  successful  stories 
on  actual  events,  making  up  the  participants  from 
what  they  imagine  they  must  have  bewi. 

The  characters,  then^  in  this  kind  of  narrative  are 
often  more  or  less  fictitious,  being  a  combination  of 
traits  well-known  tot  the  author — ^traits  of  different  in- 
dividuals of  the  type  displayed ;  while  in  the  other  kind 
of  artistic  short-story,  it  is  the  slight  course  of  events 
that  is  made  up^  to  fit  the  actual  character  and  the 
actual  place. 

Whatever  else  you  do  as  a  writer — even  as  an  ama- 
A  -n^a^  *®^^*  o°®  ^  school — ^it  will  surely  repay  you 
book  sag*  to  keep  a  scrap-book.  The  very  old  adage 
gestion  f^^^  facts  are  stranger  than  fiction  is  indis- 
putably true.    When  in  your  newspaper  reading  you 


THE  ABTISTIC  GROUP  4&9 

roiii  arcross  a.  fine  ooxurse .  of  events  that  is  character- 
revealing,  ar  ought  to  be,  just  cut  out  the  report  and 
paste  it  in  your  book.  Think  upon  the  case  leisurely 
and  let  the  personages  deyelop;  then  write  up  the 
events  as  simply  and  swiftly  as  you  can  consistent  with 
the  effect  you  mean  to  produce*  Hawthorne's  ** Ambi- 
tious Guest*'  originated  thus. 

If  at  present  you  have  in  mind  no  series  of  happen- 
ings, suppose  you  ask  some  acquaintance  what  is  the 
strangest  course  of  actual  ev^its  he  ever  per-  other  sug- 
sonally  knew  about.  When  he  answers  you,  seetions 
then  question  him  on  the  actors  concerned,  remem- 
bering that  this;  time  you  are  going  to  write  not  a 
pure  plot  stoiy  .but:one  th«t  will  express  the  conjunc- 
tion of  character  ffind  events.  Keep  in  mind  also  your 
present  limitations.:  You  do  not  need  to  tell  everything 
that  might  be  told  about; your  protagonists;  you  do  not 
have  to  follow  them  from  the  baptismal  font  to  the 
marriage  altar  and  from  the  marriage  altar  to  the 
grave.  You  may  not  know,  the  facts  about  them  con- 
nected therewith;  you  may  know  only  a  small  portion 
of  their  lives;  but  ten  to  one  you  will  know  more  inci- 
dents than  it  is  necessary  to  mention.  What  you  do 
tell,  however^  mtist  be  absolutely  clear.  The  actual 
events  may  have  been  but  a  string  of  episodes  in  real 
life,  but  when  you  relate  them  they  must  appear  like  a 
full,  round  period.  Look  carefully  after  your  connec- 
tives; on  thetitk  hangs  largely  the  success  of  your  story. 
It  goes  without  saying  that  you  must  have  a  climax, 
or  highest  point.  Every  sentence  that  you  write  before 
it,  even  the  first,  mvist  lead  toward  it;  every  sentence 
that  you  write  afteu  it,,  even  the  Ijjist,  must  lead  from 


460  TYPES  OP  PEOSE  NABEATIVES 

it.  You  must  ruthlessly  suppress  any  phrase  that  does 
not  add  strength  to  your  <ihosen  scene*  Be  sure  your 
story  has  totality. 

The  Necklace 

She  was  one  of  those  pretty,  charming  girls  who  are 
sometimes,  as  if  through  the  irony  of  fate,  bom  into  a 
family  of  derks.  She  was  without  dpwry  or  expectat- 
ions, and!  had  n6  saieans  of  becoming  .known,  appre- 
ciated, loved,  wedded,  by  any  rich  or  influential  man;  so 
she  allowed  herself  to  be  mai*ried  to  a  small  clerk  be- 
longing to  the  Ministry  of  Public  Instruction.  She 
dressed  plainly  because  she  could  not  afford  to  dress  well, 
and  was  unhappy  becatise  she  felt  shie  had  dropped  from 
her  proper  station,  whi«h<  for  women  is  a  matter  of  at- 
tractiveness,' beauty,  and  gmoe,  rather  than  of  family 
descent.  Good  mazmerSy  an  intuitive  knowledge  of  what 
is  elegant,  nimbleness  of  wit,  ar^  the  only  ):«quirements 
necessary  to  place  a  woman  of:  the  pe<^le  on  an  equality 
with  one  of  the  artetoeracy. 

She  fretted  constantly,  feeling  all  things  delicate  and 
luxurious  to  be  her  birthright.  She  suflfered  6n  aceoimt 
of  the  meagreness  of  her  siurroundii^s,  the  bareness  of 
the  walls,  the  tarnished  furniture,  the  x^ly  curtains; 
deficienices  which  would  have  left  aiky  other  woman  of 
her  class  untouched,  iri^itated  ahd  tormented  her.  The 
sight  of  the  little  Breton  peasant  who  did  h^er  humble 
housework  engendered  hopeless  rfegrets  f oHowfed  by  fan- 
tastic dreams.  She  tiiought  of  a  noiselesdy  hallowed  ante- 
room, with  Oriental  carpets,  lighted  with  tall  branching 
candlesticks  of  bronfce  and  of  two  big,  knee-breeched  foot- 
<^n,  drowi^  from  the  stove-heated  aiir,  dozing  in  great 


THIE  ABTISTIO  GEOUP  461 

armchairjs.  She  thoughit  of  a  long  drawing-room  hung 
with  ancient  brocade,  of  a  beautiful  cabinet  holding 
pricelftse  curios,  of  an  alluring,  scented  boudoir  intended 
for.  fiyiB  o'i(^lioc^  chats  with  intimates,  with  men  famous 
and  courted,  wd  whose  acquaiptance  is  longed  for  by  all 
womeni.  .... 

When,  she  sat  dciwn  to  dinner,  at  the  round  table 
spread  with  a  clbtb  three  d*ys  old,  opposite  her  husband;, 
who  uneov^recl  the  turoep,  m^  e^elaimed  with  ecstasy, 
*  *  Ah,  I  like  a  good  stew !  I  toow  nothing  to  beat  this  I ' ' 
she  thought  of  dainty  dinners,  of  shining  plate,  of  tapes- 
try v^rhich  peopled  the  i  walls  with  human  shapes,  and 
with  strangq  bird^  flying  among  fairy  trees.  And  then 
she  thought  of  delieious.  viq,nd^.  served  in' costly  dishes, 
and  of  murmured  gallantries  which  you  listen  to  with  a 
coiafQirtable  sn^^e  while  you  are  eating  the  rose-tipted 
jHlesh  of  a  tro»t;or  the  wingof.a  quail.  . 

She  had  no  handsome  gowiia,  no  jewels — ^nothing|> 
though  the^  were  her  whole. life ;  it  was  these  that  meant 
existence  to  her.  She  would  so  have  liked  to  plea«ie,  to 
be  tboiaght.fa^Qi^^ting,  tp  be  envied,  to  be  sought  out. 
She  had  a  friend,  a  former  schoolmate  at  the  convent, 
>vho  was  yery  riahj.but  whom  she  did  not  like  to  go 
to  9^  any  more  beoajc^se  she  would  come  home,  jealou^, 
oove^tous,,        ,}    : 

But  one  evening  her  husband  returned  home  jubilant, 
holding  a  large  envelope  in  his  hand. 

'  *  Her^  is  something  for  you,  "he  sai,d. 

She  tore.  open,  the  cover  sharply,  and  drew;  out  a 
printed  card  bearing  these  words;  '*The  Minister  of 
Public  Instruction  and  Mme.  Georges  Ramponneau  re- 
quest, the  honoi:  of  M.  and  Mme.  Loisel's  company  at  the 


462  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NABRATIVES 

palaee    of   the    Ministry    on    Monday    evening^    Jan- 
uary 18th." 

Instead  of  being  delighted  as  her  hnsfoand  expected, 
she  threw  the  invitation  on  the  table  with  disgust,  mut- 
tering, "What  do  you  think  I  can  do  with  that?'* 

^ '  But,  my  dear,  I  thought  you  would  be  pleased.  You 
never  go  anywhere,  and  this  is  such  a  rare  opportunity. 
I  had  hard  work  to  get  it.  Every  one  is  wild  to  go ;  it 
is  very  select,  and  invitations  to  clerks  are  scarce.  The 
whole  official  world  will  be  there.'* 

She  looked  at  him  with  a  scornful  eye,  as  she  said 
petulantly,  "And  what  have  I  to  put  on  my  back?" 
He  had  not  thought  of  that.  He  stammered,  "Why,  the 
dress  you  wear  to  the  theatre ;  it  certainly  looks  all  right 
to  me." 

He  stopped  in  despair,  seeing  his  wife  was  crying. 
Two  big  tears  rolled  down  from  the  comers  of  her  eyes 
to  the  comers  of  her  mouth. 

"What's  the  matter?  What's  the  matter?"  he  fal- 
tered. 

With  great  effort  she  controlled  herself,  and  replied 
coldly,  while  she  dried  her  wet  cheeks: 

"Nothing,  except  that  I  have  no  dress,  and  for  that 
reason,  cannot  go  to  the  ball.  Give  your  invitation  to 
some  fellow-clerk  whose  wife  is  better  provided  than 
lam." 

He  was  dumf ounded,  but  replied : 

"Come,  Mathilde,  let  us  see  n6W— -how  much  would  a 
suitable  dress  cost ;  one  you  could  wear  at  other  times- 
something  quite  simple?" 

She  pondered  several  moments,  calculating,  and 
guessing  too,  how  much  she  could  safely  ask  for  without 


THE  ABTISTXO  GROXJt*  463 

an  instbnt  i*efusal  ot  brinjging  •  dbwA  upon  her  head  a 
volley  of  objections  from  her  frugal  husband. 

At  length  she  said  hesitatingly,  '^I  can*t  say  exactly, 
but  I  think  I  could  do  with  f our  ihindred  francs.*' 

He  changed  color  because  he  Was  laying  aside  just- 
that  sum  to  buy  a  gun  and  treat  himself  to  a  little  shoot- 
ing next  summer  on  the  plain,  of  Nanterre,  with  several 
friends,  who  went  down  there  on  Sundays  to  shoot  larks. 
Nevertheless,  he  saifi :  **  Very  w^ll,  I  will  give  you  four 
hundred  francs.    Get  a  pretty  dress." 

The  day  of  the  ball  dr6w  neairer,  and  Mme.  Loisel 
seemed  despondent,  nervous,  upset,  though  her  dress  was 
all  ready.  One  evening  her  husband  observed:  ''I  say, 
what  is  the  matter,  Mathilda  ?  Your^have  been  Very  queer 
lately."^  And  she  replied,  **It  exasperates  me  not  to 
have  a  single  ornament  of  any  kind  to  put  on.  I  shall 
look  like  a  fright — I  would  almoist  rather  stay  at  home.'* 
He  answered :  *' Why  not  wear  floWers?  They  are  very 
fashionabile  at  thiis  time  of  the  year.  You  can  get  a  hand- 
ful of  fine  roses  for  ten  francs." 

But  she  was  not  to  be  persuaded.  **No,  it's  so  morti- 
fying to  look  poverty-stricken  among  womeA  who  are 
rich." 

Then  her  husband  exclaimed:  **How  slow  you  are! 
Go  and  see  your  friend,  Mme.  Forestier,  and  ask  her  to 
lend  yott  some  jewels.  You  know  her  well  enough  to 
do  that." 

She  gave  an  exclamation  of  delight  t  **True!  I  never 
thought  of  that!" 

Next  day  she  went  to  her  friend  and  poured  out  her 
woes.  Mme.  Po*estier  went  to  a  closet  with  a  glass  door, 
took  out  a  large  jewel  box,  brought  it  back,  opened  itj 


464  TYPE?  OF  PBOSE  NARRATIVES 

and: said  to  Mme.  Iioisel,  ^'Here,  take  your  dioice,  my 
dear/' 

,  She  looked  at  SKmie  bi:aicwlets,  th^n  at  a  pearl  neck- 
lace, and  tbeia  at  a  Venetian  cjrpss  curiously,  wrought  of 
gold  apd  preiaou3  stcmes,  Sb^  tried  on  the. ornaments 
befoije  the  mirror^  hesitated,  was  loath  to  take  them  off 
Wd  return  them..   &he  kept  inquiring,  '*Have  you  any 

.  /'QerjtainJy,'  look  floiT' yourself,  i  dcKU-t  know  what 
you  want." 

:8^dd^^ly  Mathilde  diseov^ed,  im  a  black  satin  box, 
ainagniflcent.  naoklaQe  of  diamonds,,  and  her  heart  began 
to  beat  witli  je:5citemEint.  "With  trembling  hands  die  took 
the,  ne<2klace  and.  &ater»ed.  it  round  her  neck  outside 
her  dres%  becpmiup  lost  ^in  admiration  of  herself  as  she 
l<j>Qked  in  the  glass.  Tremulous .  with  fear,  lest  she  be 
ref;^sied,  she  a^k#d,;f'Will.ypu.lfend  me  this-^-n^nly  this?'* 
.  VYes,  of  course.!.  1^i]|LV.«    .        :    ' 

IVIathpildef^lLuponl^er.  friend 'Sf  neck,  kissed  her  pas- 
sionately, and  rushed  off  withjhQr:  treasure.. 
;    ThQ.jday;ofjfehe  ballr arrived. 

Mme.  lioipfil  w_a^  a^.gr^at  $^ccesa  Sbe  was  prettier 
than  them  all,  lovely,  gracious,  smiling,  and  wild  with 
delight.  All  the  pien  looi;ed,at  her^,  inquired. her  name, 
tried  -tq  be: introduced;  jall.tbe  offlficialp  of  the  Ministry 
yfanted  a  w]alta-— even  the  minister,  hiulself  noticed  her. 
She  danced  with  abandon,  with  ecstacy,  intoxiciftted  with 
ipy,.  {forgetting  everytbiug  in  the.  triumph  pf  her  beauty, 
in  the  radiance  of  her  success,  in  a  kind  of  mirage  of  bliss 
m,ade  up  of  all  this  worship^, thjs  ^ulatipn,  of  all  these 
stirring  impulses^  and' of  that  realization  of  perfect  aur- 
rendeR,.po  sweet  to  tbe  soul-  of  woman* 


THE  ARTISTIC  GROUP  465 

She  left  aboiit  fouf  m  the  tnoniiftg.  ' 

Since  midnight  her  husband  had  been  sleeping  in  a 
little  deserted  ^anteroom 'with  three  dthertnen  whose 
wives  were  enjoying  themselves.  He  thrbtr  ovef  her 
shoulders  €he  wtafpfc- he  hiald  bfrougit,  'oi^iiialy,  eveiy'day 
gai'mdnts,  contrasting  sorrily  w4th  Aer  elegant  bdll*  dress. 
She  felt  this,  and  waiated  to' get  kwAf  4o  sin  noft  to  bel 
seen  by  the  bther  'woBrfeii,  vriia''were  putlSng  '6n  eostly 
furs.  *      "'^    '•;''!  ;i'   .   ^^>./      - 

Loisel  detained  her:  **"Wait  a  little;  you  will^ catch 
cold  dtitsi(*e;  I  Witt  go  amd^aila  eab:'*  •  '     '    ''       ' « 

But  she  would  not  listen  to  hiin/and  ht:rrilsid  AoWH^ 
stairs.  Wkeft '  they  reached  the '  street'  ^  th^y  ■  couli*  not 
find  a  carriage,  anid*  they  begaii  to  Icfok  for  one,  sHbuiihg 
to  tlie  cabmen  Y^ho  ^fke  piissing  by.'-  T^hey 'Wfeiit  dbwn 
toward  the  tiVer  in  '<iesperation,  sliiV^riiig  with  iebM)*  !Ai 
last  they  found  on  the  quays  one  of  those  antiquated! 'Wl-» 
night  •  broughaims,  WM<*, '  In  ' PaHs,  wait  till  laftei*'  'dark 
before  Venturing' to  display  their  dilai)idiKtibn:.  » It  t<!)olt 
tH4m  to  theiit  door  in -the  Rue  des  Martyrs,  atid  once 
mdl-e,  WeAriiiy,*theJt  dlmbed 'the  stairs.  •  ^         "     •    '' 

Now  all  was  over  for  her;  as  for  him^he  reifteihberfed'' 
that  he^mubl  beat  tlie'offi<ire  at  t^n  b^cloiel;!.  ^She  threW^  oflE 
her  cloak  before  the  glass,  that  (She  might  beholtf  heWelf 
once  tiJJdie'in  all'hei*  mbgnifictoee:  'Suyiaenly  she' ut- 
tered a  cry  of  dismay — ^the  necklace  Was  goiie'!   •        '     - 

•Hier  husband,^  ali^eady  hatt-tmdressed,  called  out, 
'*An^Hing«'-wroni^  ?'"•■•  •  '•-  *•'  ':  •  '•    '  "•  '■  -••   =  '  " 

She  turned  Wildly  tbWard  him :  '^  t  h'ave-^I  hav^-^ 
IVe  lost  Mme.  Forestier's  necklace!*' 

He  stood  aghast :  *' Where?  When?  You  haven't!*' 
:  They  looked  in  the  foldi^af  her  dress,  in  the  folds  of 


466  TYPES  OP  PBOSE  NABflATIVES 

her  cloak,  in  her  pocket,  everywhere.  They,  could  not 
find  it. 

''Are  you  sur^,''  he  said,  **that  you  had  it  on  when 
youkftthebalir* 
,    *  *  Yes ;  I  felt  it  in  the  comdor  of  the  palaca '  * 

**But  if  you  had  lost  it  in  the  street,  we  should  have 
heard  it  falL    It  must  be  in  the  Qai;>. '' 

*'No  doubt.    Did  you  take  hiis  number  f 

* '  No.    And  didn  't  you  notice  it  either  !  * ' 

*'No/' 

They  looked  at  each  other,  terrornrtricken.  At  last 
Loisel  put  on  his  clothes. 

'I  shall  go  back  on  fjool^"  he  said,  ^*ove^  ttie  whole 
route  we  came  by,  to  see  if  I  can't  find  it.** 

He  went  put,  and  she  sat  waiting  in  her  ball  dress, 
too  dazed  to  go  to  bed,  cold,  crushed,  lifele^s,  unable  to 
think. 

J  Her  husband  came  back  at  fieven  o'clock.  He*  had 
found  nothing*  He  went  to  PoJicQ  Headquarters,  to 
the  newspaper  office — ^where  he  advertised  a,  reward.  He 
went  to  the  cab  companies — ^to  every  place,  in  fact^  that 
seemed  at  all  hppef  uL 

She  waited  all  day  in  the  same  nwful  state  of  mind 
at  this  terrible  misfortune. 

Loisel  returned  at  night  with  a  wan,  white  time.  He 
had  found  nothing. 

*'Writ0  immediately  to  your  friend,*'  said  he,  "that 
you  have  broken  the  clasp  of  her  necklace,  and  that  you 
have  taken  it  to  be  mended.    That  will  give  us  time  to 
turn  about.** 
;  She  wrote  as  he  told  her. 

By  the  end  pf  the  week  they  had  given  up  all. hope. 


THE  ARTISTIC  GBOUP  46? 

Lo^l,  wjio  looked  five  years  older,  said,  **We  mu^t.plan 
how  we  can  replace  the  xxecklace." 

The  next  day  they  tipok  the  black  satin  box  to  thq 
jeweler  whose  name  was  found  inside.  He  referred  to 
his  books. 

'^  You  did  not  buy  that  noeklaee  of  me,  Madame.  I 
can  only  have  supplied  the  09«e;.'/ 

They  went  from  jeweler  to  jenreler,  hunting  for  a 
necklace  like  the  lost  one,  trying,  to  remember  its  ap- 
pearance, heartsick  with  shame  and  misery.  Filially, 
in  a  shop  at  the.  Palaiqi  Eoyal,  they  found  a  string  of 
diamonds  which  looked  to  them  just  like  the  other.  The 
price  was  forty  thousand  francs,  but  they  could  have  it 
for  thirty-six  thousand-  They  begged  the  jeweler  to  keep 
it  three  days  for  them,  and  made  an  agreement  with  him 
that  he  should  buy  it  b^ck  for  thirty-four  thousand, 
francs  if  they  found  the  lost,  necklace  before  the  last 
of  February. 

Loisel  had  inherited  eighteen  thousand  francs  from 
his  father.  He  could  borrow  the  remainder.  ^  And  he 
did  borrow  right  and  left,  asking  a  thousand  francs> 
from  one,  five  hundred  of  another,  five  louis  here,  ^hree: 
louis  there.  He  gave  notes,  assumed  heavy  obligations, 
traflScked  with  money-lenders  at  usurious  rates,  and, 
putting  the  r*est  of  his  life  in  pawn,  pledged  his  signa- 
ture over  a^d  over  again.  Not  knowing  how  he  was  to 
make  it  all  gpod,  and  terrified  by  the  penalty  yet  to  come, 
by  the  dark  destruction  which  hung  over  him,  by  the 
certainty  of  incalculable  deprivations  of  body  and  tor- 
tures of  soul,  he  went  to.  get  the  new  bauble,  throwing 
down  upon  the  jeweler's  counter  the  thirty-six  thousand 
francs. 


468  TYPES  OP  PROSE  If ARRATTVES 

When  Mme.  Loisel  returned  the  necklace,  Mme.  For- 
estier  said  16  her  coldly:  **Why  did  you  not  bring  it 
back  sooner  ?    I  might  have  Wanted  it. "  •  * 

She  did  not  open  the  cas6 — ^to  the  jgreat  relief  of  her 
friend. 

'  Supposing  she  had!  Would  she  have  discovered  the 
substitution,  and  what  would  she  have  said?  Would  she 
not  have  accused  Mtnci  Loisel  of  theft? 

Mme.  Loisel  no^  knew  What  it  was  to  be  in  want,  but 
she  showed  sudden  And  remarkable  courage.  That  awful 
debt  must  be  paid,  and  she  would  pay  it. 

They  sent  away  their  servant,  and  moved  up  into  a 
garret  under  the  roof.  She  began  to 'find  out  what  heavy 
house woi^k  and  the  fatiguing  drudgery  of  the  kitchen 
meant.  She  washed  the  diishes,  Scraping  the  greasy  pots 
and  pans  with  her  rosy  nails.  She  washed  the  dirty 
linen,  the  shirts  And  dish-towels;  Which  dried  upon  the 
line.  She  lugged  slops  and  refuse  down  to  the  street 
every  morning,  bringing  back  fresh  water,  stopping  on 
every  landing,  panting  for  breath.  With  her  basket  on 
her  arm,  and  dressed  like  a  woman  of  the  people,  she 
haggled  With  the  fruitei*er,  the  grocer,  and  the  butcher, 
often  insulted,  but  getting  eVery  sibu's  worth  tliat  be- 
longed to  her.  Each  month  notes  had  to  be  met,  others 
renewed,  extensions  of  time  procured.  Her  husband 
worked  in  the  eveniligs,  straightenitig  otit  tradesmen's 
accounts ;  he  sat  up  late  at  night,  copiying  manuscripts 
at  five  sous  a  page.  ,     ^  .        ' 

And  this  they  did  for  ten  yfears. 

At  the  end  of  that  time  they ''had  pai5  up  every- 
thing, everything— with  all  the  principal  and  the  ac- 
cumulated compound  interest. 


THE  AfiTISTIO  6B0UP  469 

Mme.  Loisel  lookbdoldiiow.  Sbe^Md  becdmea  do- 
mestic drudge,  sinewy,  rou^^^kSiiiied,'  coarse.  With' 
towsled  hair,  tucked-up  skirts,  aAd  i*^  tandei,  bhe  Would 
talk  loudly  while  mopping  the  floor  w?lth  gteiat'  bpfeshes 
of  water.  But  sometimeB,  when  'alonsj  «he  feat  lieat  the 
window;  and  sfc^  thoufeftt  of  thiat  gay.  ei^ning  loAg  ago, 
of  the  bdll  where  fete' had  b^en  *o^  beautiful,  so  much' ad- 
mired. Supposing  she'  had  n6t  lost  the  ncoHace— Jwhat 
then  ?  Who  knows  1  Who  knows t  Uif e:  is  so' strange  and 
shifting.  How  exceedingly  easy  itlia  to*  be  ^ned'  or 
saved!  '      ' 

But  oAe'  Sttnday,*  goin^  fbt  "^  walk  ia  the:  Cbaihps 
filysees  to  refresh  herself  alFter' her  hard  Peek's ; work, 
she  accidentally  came  upon  a  familiar-Uokiig  'Wornaii 
with  a  c*rild%»  ItWafe  Mme.  'F<)restier/  slill  young, 'Still 
lovely,  still  eharming.  '    .  '    '  '•  i-  .1  .     » 

Mme.  Loisel  became  agitated:-  ^Should' ahe  speak  t» 
her  ?  Of  course.  •  Now'  th»t*  she  ha8  paid,  she  would  tell 
her  all  about.lt.   Why  nott  She  went.up  to  ber. 

*'How  do  you  do,  Jeanne  T' 

The  other,  astonished  at  thQ  easy  manner  toward  her 
assumed  by  a  plain  housewife  whom  she  did  not  recog- 
nize,  said:  ' 

*'B'ut/Mada6ie,  you  hav^  made  a  mist&ke  f  1  do  ricit' 
know  you." 

'*<Why,  I'am'iviathflde' Loisel!'^"  '•-    •    '""-  '       •        "  ' 

Her  friend  give  a  start.  ^       '  '  '    '  '••       •  '  ' 

**0h,'  iny  poor  iKfathiide,"  she  cried,'  **how  you:h«Vel 
changed!**  ..  •  .  ...         .s 

''Yes;  I  have  feeen  hard  daiys  sihce  last  I  saw  you'; 
hard  enough — and  all  because  of  you.''         •        '    .  i" 

'*0f  me?    And  whyr'    ^  ....... 


470  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NAJRBATIVES 

'^You  remember  the  dimuond  necklace  you  loaned  me 
to  wiear  at  tibie  Ministry  ball t'' 

*'Ye8,Ido.    Whatofitr' 

''Well,  I  lost  it!" 

*'But  yQtt  hrQnght  it  back-~exi>laii[i  yowrself." 
.    ^'I  bought  one  just  like  it,  and  it  topk  us  ten  years 
to  pay  for  it.    It  was  not  ^aay  for  us  who  had  nothing, 
but  it  is  all  over  now,  and  I  am:  glad." 

Mme.  Forestier  stared. 

''And  you  bought  a  necklace  of  diodnopds  to  replace 
mine!" 

"Yes;  and  you  never  knew  the  difference,  they  were 
so  alike:"  And  she  smiled. with  joyful  pride  at  the 
success  of  it  all. 

Mme.  Forestier,  deeply  moved,  took  both  her  hands. 

'  *  Oh,  my  poor  Mathilde !  My  necklace  was  paste.  It 
was  worth  only  about  five  hundred  francs!" 

^-^Henri  Bene  Albert  Guy  de  Maupassant. 

"Little  Mastefpieces  of  Fiction.^'  Volume  V.  (Doubleday, 
Page  &  Go.)  '     ,. 

Andong 

Andong  was  the  only  son  of  Isio,  an  ex-gohernador- 
cUlo  (president)  of  Tuao,  Cagayan.  At  an  early  age 
Andong  went  to  Manila  to  study;  but,  unfortunately, 
his  father  died  and  the  boy  co^ld  not  finish  his  career, 
but  returned  to  his  native  town  to  take  care  of  his  help- 
less, mother.  Shortly  after  his  arrival  at  Tuao,  his 
mother  died,  and  Andong  became  a  poor  orphan.  Dur- 
ing his  orphanage  he  lived  miserably,  but  worked  hard  in 
order  to  release  himself  from  poverty.  He  cultivated, 
year  after  year,  his  small  piece  of  land,  which  he  in- 


THE  ARTISTIC  GROUP  471 

herited  from  his  father.  After  ten  years  he  had  earned 
a  considerable  sum,  and  bought,  ti^euty-flve  carabaos  and 
one  hundred  hectares  of  land.  He  made  a  trip  to  Ilocos 
Norte,  and  succeeded  in  getting  several  Xlocano  families 
to  live  and  to  work  on  his  plantation. 

One  day,  while  he  was  working  in  his  field,  he  re- 
ceived a  message  from  the  gobemadorcillo,  notifying  him 
of  his  nomination  as  a  caheza  de  barangay  (counoilor), 
and  Andong,  ijastead  of  insulting  ihe  police,  as  many 
had  done,  said,  *'Well,  leave  with  me  the  letter,  and  I 
will  call  on  the  gobemadorcillo  this  afternoon/'  When 
Andong  had  finished  his  work  in  the  fidd,  he  called  at 
the  gobemadorcillo 's  house,  and  talked  with  him  about 
his  unexpected  nomination.  Andong  said,  '^I  have  no 
objection  to  serving  my  municipality,  for  it  is  the  duty 
of  every  citizen  to  serve  his  town  government  the  best 
he  can,  and  I  am  thankful  to  the  government  fw  Slaving 
nominated' me  as  one  of  the  principaka;  but  before  I  ac- 
cept the  office,  I  wish  to  see  the  tax  list  of  my  district 
to  know  whether  any  of  the  people  are  in  arrears,  for  I 
do  not  want  to  lose  my  property,  which  I  have  earned 
by  hard  labor,  to  answer  for  the  debts  of  the  i>eople  of 
my  district,  nor  can  I  go  to  look  for  them  in  other 
provinces,  nor — " 

''Whether  you  are  willing,  or  not,  you  are  forced  to 
accept  your  nomination,"  interrupted  the  gobemador- 
cillo, '*and  to-day  your  property  is  hypothecated  to  pay 
the  iiebts  of  your  people  to  the  government.*' 

rBut,  sir,  who  has  hypothecated  my  property!  Is 
it  possible  that  anybody  has  the  right  to  confiscate  my 
property?"  . 

''Surely,"  said  the  gobemadorcillo.    "Some  of  the 


47i  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NAERATIVES 

priticipsiles  and  I  have  been  infopmed  that  you  own 
nugtny  hectares  of  land,  and  that  you  are  immensely  rich, 
so  the  governor-  of  oui'  ^provinoe  hits  confirmed  your  noDii- 
nation  as  eabeza  de  barangay/- 

''I  accept  my  ndmlniation,!  but  I  do  not  want  to  an- 
swer foi^  the  debt  of  the'  p^c^le  urider  nky  command," 
said  Andong:  '•:.'• 

*^  Whether  you  likfe  it  or  liot,  you  will  be  cabeza  de 
bartogay,  and^he  eomprtled  to  pay  all  the  debts  of  your 
people,  •  ^  answered  the  gobemadorcillo. 

'*'Well,  i  w4irthink"abo^t  th^matt^  fii^st,"  replied 
Andoig,  and  he  Went  tio  thehoufee  of  Anitig,  an  old  ex- 
gobeynadotoilio,  to  consuilt  him. 

•  The  JgdberiadorcilloW^as  nbt  »nrp!riBed  at  Andong 's 
noiinnation,  for  he  wius  one  df:  those  pJ^iAcipales  who  had 
recommended  And«lig  to*  the'  counml:  Aning  advised 
Andong  to^  sldc^pt  theoflScfe/  '^A  babezade  barangay  is 
always  'respected  anid'lioBLOred  by  the  'people,'*  said  the 
gobemadorcillo.  ■  ^*He  receives*  no  salsay,  to  be  sure, 
but  'he  get«  gifts  of  ^gs,  chiikens,  pigs,  fruits,  which 
when«  sold 'bring 'litjieh  money:  ;  Besides,  when  he  wants 
to  build  a'  hoiis^  for  himself,  some  of'  his  people  bring  him 
lumberj'rattatf,  cdgoi,  and  othei*  ttfaterials,  while  the 
others  erect  the  house  without  any  pay.**  *^Btit  I  do  not 
like'  to  'miolest  my^.  people,*  and'  I  hate'  to  see  them  serve 
mfe  W'A'inasteat';  for^  tfaey^  a're'my  brother*,"  answered 

**Do  yoti!  pre^rthefi^  to  die? 'from  hunger  rather 
than'  tbs  oh^at .  ydur  p^opte.'as  your  predecessors 
did?''  asked  Anin^:  ^*¥fea,  I  prefer  death,  to  seeing 
my  people  oppressed,"  replied  Andong.  Disgusted  at 
the  servile  icbiiveri^tion  of  the  ex-gk)fe0i*iadorcilk).  An- 


THE  ABTISTIC. GROUP  478 

dong  left  l^m  in  vegetatijiig  .^pmplacenoj^  sitting  on  & 
bamboo  chair  with  a  f^n  iiji  .his.  hand.      '    , 

ynwiUingly  A^dong  becaQie..a>  o^^bi^^a  de,ka|!ailgay. 
During  t^e.  first,  y^ar  of  his  office  hft.g^ve'  €iighty.  pema 
to  the  government  to  pay;  thje  debts,  of  his .  rtuiaway 
people,      .•   .;     ...  •:•■',:•.   <.  .•-  •     ••• 

Now.  his  wealth  w^fi  decreasing,  fpir  bis<  .duties,  maide 
him  neglept  hi^;Work  in,  the  field.  i.!rbeifaet:tba.the  Was 
becoming  poorep  each  day,  led  him  into,  despair.  Ha 
remembered  t^i^  advice  of  Aning;,but:he  had  np.cpnrage 
to  ;al?nse;  his  poor  peoplq..;  .He  could, not  4^Qe^Ye  them, 
for  to  deceive  siiph  people  woiUd  be  the  ^Saine  a»  ste^ing^ 
But  who  wo)ijld. pay  biuek. the. money  lostt.  Thisk  wae^tha 
questipn^whichwwried  him  many  times^     ... 

To  forget  his  painful  situation  he  took;  to  drinking 
basi  (Ilocano  wine  which  is  extracted  &0m  tii6  sUgac 
cane),.^d  be^me  j^  drunkard. .  He  forgot  ,eptitely  his 
old  l^ii^ii^e^  :ai\d  iu  hiH:into:9^ieat^d/momentS(iLB;  often 
exclaimed:  **"Whi]e  I  iiye,  let  m^enjoy.  the  fimit  of}my 
own  toil  instead  of  paying.  il^i^H  over  to  the>goverott<ent.'' 

Qp  ifteQOiOiP)^  of.  his'  drunk^^^sv  ,be  negleetod/.tpt  col* 
lect.the  taxes  from. his ;peopK;. and. the  deficit  doubled 
the*  follpwingyear.  At  fii!»t  pobody  wanted  to  lend  him 
mopey  to  pay  hj^  debttOithe.goiKeimj^ent ;.  for  his  proipn 
erty  was  already  hypothecated;  but,  at  last  a  kind: and 
rich  Qfl^e?:,leipLt  Wmthe  monkey  he  needed,  at  twenty  per 
Gept.ii^ter^f^f  and  with  the  coitcdition  that  if  be  opuI4 
not  pay,, his  debt  within  the i period,  of  two^.^eaa^  his 
property  .wpi^ld  J^e. pledged  for  the  secontd; time  in  ifayor 
of  tbei  cp:«ditp>?.  .  Andong  fell- intOjaj  long. meditation;:  Hie 
remem^pri&d  once  more  the  advice  of^Aning;  ai&d  he  was 
revolving  in  ;his<mind. plans  whioh  might  release  hiiK 


474  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  KARRATIVES 

from  bankruptcy.  Meanwhile,  he  decided  to  go  to  It- 
tong,  an  ex-cabeza  de  barangay,  to  ask  for  advice. 

Andong  asked  Ittong  to  work  for  his  election  to  the 
office  of  gobemadorcillo,  in  order  that  he  might  be  saved 
from  his  critical  situation.  But  wise  Ittong  advised  him 
not  to  seek  such  an  office;  for  it  was  worse  than  a 
cabeza  de  barangay:  **The  best  thing  for  you  to  do  is 
to  let  the  government  confiscate  your  property,  go  to 
prison,  and  then  when  you  are  released  from  jail,  you 
can  earn  again  your  lost  property,"  he  said. 

**Your  advice  seems  excellent  to  ine,'*  answered  An- 
dong, '^but  can't  they  nominate  me  again  as  cabeza  de 
barangay  when  I  accumulate  more  property?" 

''Since  you  have  not  held  the  office  during  a  period 
of  ten  years,  they  can  oblige  you  to  accept  the  office 
again,"  said  Ittong. 

Andong,  after  a  long  pause,  said  to  Ittong:  ^'I 
want  to  be  elected  'gobetnadoreillo  so  that  I  can  save  mj 
property  instead  of  going  to  jail." 

**If  you  desire  it,  I  can  recommend  you  to  my  friends 
Islao^  Anscmg,  Momong,  Ipi,  and  Cadio,  who  will  nomi- 
nate you  as  the  candidate  of  our  party  for  the  coming 
election,"  said  Ittong.  '*I  thank  you  for  your  kind- 
ness," said  Andong,  and  bade  good-bye  to  his  future  ad- 
vocate, Ittong. 

Andong  was  nominated  as  the  candidate  of  Ittong's 
party  for  gobemadorciUo.  Ambeng,  the  candidate  of 
the  opposing  party,  was  more  popular  than  Ittong,  con- 
sequently he  was  more  sure  to  succeed  in  the  coming 
election.  The  critical  day  was  approaching.  Many  of 
the  cabezas  de  barangay  went  to  pay  their  eontributioss 
to  the  municipal  treasurer,  in  order  to  be  allowed  to  vote. 


THE  AKTISTIC  GBOUP  475 

On  the  eve  of  the  eleoticm  the  dram  of  the  tribfunal 
neter  «topi>ed  beating  and  the  voters  of  the  town  k^pt 
flocking  to  the  polling-place.  On  the  morning  of  the 
election,  all  the  princdpales  in  their  holiday^  dresses 
awaited  the  governor  at  the  tribrtnal.  When  the  gov* 
emor  eame^  they  took  off  their  hats  and  followed  himl 
They  entered  the  tribunal,  and  sat  arcmnd  a  long  table; 
prerided  over  by  the  goveinor*  Before  beginning  the 
eleotfon, '.the  governor  delivered  a  short  spech  of  ird- 
€ome  and  he  empUasi^ed  that  they  must  eleot  that  jaum 
who  was  rich,  honest,  and  capable.  Aft^r  a'  long  discus- 
sion, Amb«ng  was  efected  by  a  big  ma jority. 

Andong  was  disappointed  and  disgusted  over  his 
defeat.  But  while  Ambeng's  party  was  still  celebrating 
their,  triumph  the  govemdr  of  the  province  received  a 
telegram  from  the  central  government,  announcing  Ain- 
dong's  nomination  as  gobemadoreillo  of  Tuao.  Ainbeng 
veas  elected  by  the  people,  but  Andong  had  been  reoom^ 
mended  to  the  governor-general  by  the  curate  of  the 
towii,  the  governor  of  the  province,  and  the  chief  of  the 
ff%$drdia  dvil;  bo  AnAong  was  appointed  to  the  office  he 
sought. 

On  the  day  of  Andong's  possession,  the  people  of  Tuao 
held  a  holiday  in  his  honor.  There  was  a  land  parade 
in  which  all  the  prmeipales  of  the  town  tookpart.:  Afte^ 
the  parade,  Andong  went  to  the  tribunal  to  take  his 
oath  before  the  justice  of  the  peace.  After  this  cere- 
mony the  chief  of  police  read^his  administrative  p^ro- 
gram,  in  which  he  obliged  every  one  of  his  people  to  go 
to  inass  on  Stmdays  and  holidays,  and  prohibited  gam- 
bling, drunkfenness,  and  stealing. 
.  Time  flew.;    After  three  months'  administration,  An- 


476  TYPES  or  PROSE  NARBATIVES 

dong  became  worried  over  hiBbufiiBess;  for  he  was  com- 
pelled to  Tisit  every  day  his  superiors,  and  to  go  to  mass 
on:  Sundays  and  holidays.  Howeveaf)  .he  .was  a  .'zealous 
ruler.  He  otgAnimd  a  militia*  He  siicceeded  in  pacify- 
ing the  Igoifrotes,:  who; were  fitting  (me  another,  and 
hedaus^t  man(y  of  tbd  bandits,  who. were  ravaging  the 
»4fcighboi?iiig  tbwBS. .    ^  . 

.  Everything  was  going  all  righty  when,  uzie.xpectedly, 
Andong  I'eeeived  an  order  ixoxi%  the:  court  of  justice  to 
appear  before  the  judge,  to  atHBHwer  all  the  complaints  of 
t^e,  people  about  thins  abuses  in  the  goveimment,  Andong, 
before  going  to-  cfpuirt\Wexit  to  Isee  Ittong^  his  old  advo- 
ciate..  Ittong.  ad;viised  him .  not'  tp ,  be  afraid.  *  *  Call  of- 
ficially your  witnesses, ' '  he  said, ' '  and  tell  them  that  you 
will. put  ,th«m; into» .prison  if. they  declare  gainst  you." 
The  wind  was. stroia^. against  A»dong.  Nobody  could 
sav^  him  from  his  trouble.  The  po'isoli  was  awaiting 
him.  :  Andong  w^  perplei^ed;  he  did  not  know  what  to 
diOi  While  he  was  looking  at  the  .neighboring  moun- 
taiins,.  ia  wise  thought  .«ame  to  his.mi»d.  '*I  will  go 
a^d  live  in.  those  w<>odi^  with  the  Iggrrrotes,  rather  than 
to  suflfer  the  oppression  of  my  superiors  and  the  hatred 
of  my.owoi  p^opiJer'  he, exolaimed*  .Meanwhile,  he  re- 
eeivied.  aa  iargez)t..de8p<rteh  from:  a  f ri^nd^ .  anoovmcing 
thftt-^the -government  had  discharged  him  from  his  of- 
fice, aaad  had  sen;fce«ced;bim  to.be  put  i^to  pristwa.  Im- 
mediatj^ly,  Andong  and  one  of  his,  si^rv^mts  fled  from 
Tinao  a^d  sought  refuge  in  thenei^boriilLg;  forests,  there 
to  lijve  like,  wild  men,  yith  no  .ambition:  above  that  of 
the  bi*utey  eariug  only  for  their  w^t  meaJ^.  but  harboring 
in  their  hearts  a  deadly  hateed  of  Spanish,  rule. 

-^usto  B.  Avila. 


PART  II 

NARRATIVES  OF  ACTUAL 

EVENTS 


CHAPTER  VII 
PARTICULAR  ACCOUNTS 

The  second  large  division  heading  explains  itself. 
In  an  atmosphere  of  facts  all  the  true  narrative  types 
stand.  Whether  these  types  are  used  as  retainers 
of  truth  only  is  another  question.  Manifestly  they  are 
not.  Manifestly  there  is  much  fiction  that  succeeds 
merely  because  it  is  cast  in  the  true  story  mold.  But  the 
concern  of  the  writer  who  chooses  any  one  of  these  forms 
is  to  pour  truth  into  it,  whether  the  truth  be  historical 
actualities  or  only  artistic  probabilities. 

It  is  more  helpful  to  consider  the  types  on  their  siiib- 
plest  basis ;  hence  in  a  study  like  this,  one  would  assume 
for  content  always  real  happenings.  The  necessity  that 
the  story  go  unquestioned  does  not,  however,  excuse  the 
recorder  of  actual  events  from  using  his  imagination. 
Indeed,  only  by  using  it  can  he  come  to  write  true  history 
or  true  biography.  Without  "the  inward  eye''  one  can- 
not see  the  past.  Without  sympathy — ^which  is  another 
word  for  imaginations-one  cannot  know  his  fellowman. 
A  biographer,  an  historian,  above  all  else  should  be  able 
to  see  the  unseen,  not  the  unseen  of  the  unreal,  but  the 
unseen  of  the  real,  a  vastly  different  thing !  The  two  are 
exact  opposites,  the  what-is  and  the  what-was  set  over 
against  the  what-was-not  and  the  what-could-not-be. 

In  this  chapter  five  types  of  narratives  of  actual 
events  are  grouped  as  particular  accounts,  or  adventitious 

479 


480  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NABRATIVES 

history,  in  contrast  with  continuous  personal  history,  and 
continuous  impersonal,  or  community  history. 

Particular  accounts  have  to  do  with  those  small  hap- 
penings that  seem-  to'  cortie  by  chance,  those  events  that 
form,  as  it  were,  complete  an4  detachable  bits  of  life. 
That  is  to  say,  each  relation  is  oi  something  that  has 
taken  place  or  been  witnessed  in  a  comparatively  short 
time — ^an  incident  of  a  trip  downtown,  a  characteristic 
action  of  a  great  man,  an  important  political  event,  an 
adventure,  a  brief  iSeries  of  pleasures. 

The  word  ''incident^'  comes  from  the  Latin  and 
means  '^falling  upon  or  into  something,  impinging  from 
without  ;'^  hence  Something  depending  upon 
or  contained  in  another  thing,  as  its  principal. 
In  narrative,  then,  it  is  the  record  of  a  subordinate  act  or 
of  an  event  happening  at  the  same  timie  as  some  other 
event  and  of  less  importance.  .  Any  little  occurrence 
may  be  consiidered  an  incident.  ^  The  report  of  it  gen- 
erally has  excuse  for  being  in  the  fact  that  knowledge 
of  it  throws  light  on  the  main  event  or  intensifies  inter- 
est therein.  Accordingly  every  gooid  narrative  of  this 
type  possesses  a  horizon  larger  than  itself.  Somewhere 
within  the  story  there  is  a  clause  connecting  the  event 
with  other  occurrences  or  with  the  prime  occurrence. 

Ail  incident  may  oi;  may  i^ot  be  ^.n  eye-witness  ac- 
Howto  count.  Indeed,  an  incident  may  be  told  by 
teUan  a  person  removed  .the  third,  the  hundredth 

incident  de^reei  from  the  happening.  The  essential 
thing  IS  the  evidence  of  reality.    Of  course  there  are 


:P4.BTI<3ULAR  ACCOUNTS  481 

fictitious  incidents — ^like  those  in  "RobipiBon  Crusoe'/ 
— but  the  whole  care  of  the  writer  in  such  cases  i^  to 
simulate  truth.  .Very  often  a  work  of  fiction  is  but  a 
skillful  piecing  together,  of  actual  small  happenings* 
An  incident  is  valued  in  itself  for  one  of  two  reasonfih— 
either  for  the  fact  which  it  records  or  for  the  author's 
humanity  revealed  in  the  Narration.  Though  slight,  an 
incident  should  be  weU  told.  It  need  npt  be  ppi^ited, 
but  it  should  piHDeefd  in  an  orderly  /and'  interesting 
fashion.  The  diction  should  be  natural.  As,  hinted 
befoce,  an  incident  should  have  a  setting.  The  rea^der 
ought  to  be  able  to  feel  something  of  where  the  char- 
acters have  cw>nie.  from  ai^d  whither  they  are  going. 
The  Hiore  nicely  such  a  coherence  is  suggested,  the 
more  pleasing  the  little  stoiy  will  be,     , 

.  One  thinks,  of  ttoe  quiet  delightf ulness . of  Words- 
worth^s  Incidents  which  he  calls  ''Poems  on  the  Nam- 
ing of  Places.''  They  are  small  stqries  out  of  his  life 
and  the  lives  of  his  f  riends-r-ijatural  recotrds  out  ofnat- 
ural  living,  :but  as  charming  and  interesting  as. any 
tale  of  ,  ..      ^ 

''lilaiad  by  .the  side 
Of  Grecian  brook,  or  Lady  of  the  Mere, 
Sole-sitting  by  the  shores  of  old  romance/' 

Kjobert  Browniug's  ''Incident  of  the, French  Camp'' 
is  an  example  of  the  more  stirring.  $mall,  happening.. 
Books  of  travel  are  largely  series  of  incidents^  but  be- 
cause, of  the  continued  presence'  of  the  same  person- 
ality fall  into  a  class  distinct  from  this. ,  Good  lettcr- 
-writers  are  usually  fascinating  relators  Qf  incidents. 
Cowper,  Jane  Welsh  Carlyle,  Dorothy  Osborne,  Gray, 


482  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NAKKATIVES 

Lowell,  Edward  Fitzgerald,  charmed  not  only  their 
correspondents  but  all  their  later  readers.  The  earlier 
accounts  of  his  life  away  from  home  that  ^^R.  L.  S." 
sent  backsto  his  mother  contain  exquisite  small  bits  of 
narration.  >v 

A  Hear  Tragedy 


A  most  tragical  incident  fell  out  this  day  at  sea. 
While  the  ship  was  under  sail,  but  making,  as  will  ap- 
pear, no  great  way,  a  kitten,  one  of  four  of  the  feline 
inhabitants  of  the  cabin,  fell  from  the  window  into  the 
water :  an  alarm  was  immediately  given  to  the  captain, 
who  was  then  upon  deck,  and  received  it  with  the  ut- 
most concern.  He  immediately  gave  orders  to  the  steers- 
man in  favor  of  the  poor  thing,  as  he  called  it ;  the  sails 
were  instantly  slackened,  and  all  hands,  as  the  phrase 
is,  employed  to  recover  the  poor  animal.  I  was,  I  own, 
extremely  surprised  at  all  this;  less,  indeed,  at  the  cap- 
tain's extreme  tenderness,  than  at  his  conceiving  any  pos- 
sibility of  success;  for,  if  puss  had  had  nine  thousand 
instead  of  nine  lives,  I  concluded  they  had  been  all  lost. 
The  boatswain,  however,  had  more  sanguine  hopes ;  for, 
having  stript  hiinself  of  his  jacket,  breeches,  and  shirt, 
he  leapt  boldly  into  the  water,  and,  to  my  great  astonish- 
ment, in  a  few  minutes,  returned  to  the  ship,  bearing  the 
motionless  animal  in  his  mouth.  Nor  was  this,  I  ob- 
served, a  matter  of  such  great  difSculty  as  it  appeared 
to  my  ignorance,  and  possibly  may  seem  to  that  of  my 
fresh-water  readers:  the  kitten  was  now  exposed  to  air 
and  sun  on  the  deck,  where  its  life,  of  which  it  retained 
no  symptoms,  was  despaired  of  by  all. 

The  captain's  humanity,  if  I  may  so  call  it,  did  not  bo 


PARTICITLAB  ACCOUNTS  483 

totally  destroy  his  philosophy  as  to  make  him  yield  him- 
self up  to  aflfliction  on  this  melancholy  occasion.  Having 
felt  his  I068  like  a  man,  he  resolved  to  show  he  conld  bear 
it  like  one ;  and,  having  declared  he  had  rather  have  lost 
a  cask  of  rum  or  brandy,  betook  himself  to  thrashing  at 
backgammon  with  the  Portuguese  friar,  in  which  inno- 
cent amusement  they  passed  nearly  all  their  leisure 
hours. 

But  as  I  have,  perhaps,  a  little  too  wantonly  en- 
deavored to  raise  the  tender  passions  of  my  readers  in 
this  narrative,  I  should  think  myself  unpardonable  if 
I  concluded  it  without  giving  them  the  satisfaction  of 
hearing  that  the  kitten  at  last  recovered,  to  the  great 
joy  of  the  good  captain;  but  to  the  great  disappointment 
of  some  of  the  sailors,  who  asserted  that  ihe  drowning 
a  cat  was  the  very  surest  way  of  raising  a  favorable 
wind :  a  supposition  of  which,  though  we  have  heard  sev- 
eral plausible  accounts,  we  will  not  presume  to  assign 
the  true  original  reason.  '   .      ' 

— Jlenry  Fielding. 

''Journal  of  a  Toyage  to  Lisbon.'' 

'  Birds  Divulge  Axmj  Secrets 

Duritig  the  night,  before  the  battle  of  Sadowa,  an 
Austrian  division  commanded  by  the  archduke,  retreat- 
ing before  the  Prussian  army,  had  bivouoked  near  a 
town  in. Bohemia,  facing  north,  says  Sir  Evelyn  Wood, 
in  the  London  Gazette. . 

At  midnight  the  archduke,  when  resting  in  a  peas- 
ant's cottage,  was  awakened  by  the  arrival  of  a  gypsy, 
having  come  to  report  the  advance  of  the  enemy. 

The  archduke,  who  spoke  Romany  fluently,  asked: 


484  TYPES  OF  PEOSE  NAKRATIVES 

'*How  do  you  kn^ow?  0.up  Ojutposto  have  not  reported 
any  movement." 

^'That  your  tiighness^  ia  because  the  eooemy  is  some 
wayo^." 

"Then  how  do  you  knowf 

The  gypsy,  pointing  to  the  dark  sky,  lighted  by  the 
moon,  ol^served;  ''You  see  those  birds  flying  over  the 
woods  from  north  to  south  T' 

*'Yqs;  what  of  tl^emr* 

** Those  birds  do,  not  fly  by  night  unless  disturbed, 
and  the  direction  of  their  flight  indicates  that  the  enemy 
is  coming  this  way.'* 

The  archduke  put  his  ^vision  under  arms  and  re- 
inforced the  outposts,  which  in  two  hours'  time  were 
iieavily  attacked. 


\ 


An  Incident  Belated  In  a  Xiotter 

7 :20  P.  M.-T-I  muj?t  telLyou  a  thing  I  saw  to-day.  I 
was  going  down  to  Portobello  iij  the.  train,  when  there 
came  into  the  ne^tt  compartment  (third-class)  an  artisan, 
strongly  marked  with  smallpox,  and  with  sunken,  heavy 
eyes — ^a  face  hard  and  unkind,  and  without  anything 
lovely.  There  wasia  wtmaft'onthe  platterin  seeing  Mm  oft 
At  first.siiitfat;  with  her  otie  eye  blind' and  th:e  .whole  cast 
of  her  featnl'es  str engly- ^lebeoan,  and  even  vidous,  she 
seemed  as  nnpleiasant.aa  the  man>  but- there  was  some- 
thing beautifully  soft,  a 'soart^of  light  of  tenderness,  as 
on  some  Dutch  Madonna,  that  came  over  het  face  when 
she  looked  at  the  man.  Thejr  talked  for  a  while  together 
through  the  Window ;  the  man  seemed  to  have  been  ask- 
ing for  money.  "Ye  ken  the  last  tinpae,*'' she  said,  "I 
gave  ye  two  shillings  for  your  ludgiia^  And  ye  said — "  it 


PAH*IOULAB  ACXJOtNTS  485 

died  off  in  ft  whispei*.  Pl«linly  Fftlstaff  aiid  Dame 
Quidkly  over  again*.  The  Man  laughed  unpleasantly, 
even  crUelly,  and  said  sometMiig ;  and  the  woman  turned 
her  baek'oii  the  carriage  and  stood  a  long  whil«  so,  and, 
do  what  I  iaight,  I  eould  catch  no  glimpse  of  her  ^expres- 
sion^ alth6ugh  I  thought  I  saw  the  heave  of  a  siob  in 
her  shouid^s.  At  last,  after  th^  train  was  already  in 
motion^  she  iiirned  and  put  two  shillings  into  his  hiand. 
I  saw  her  stand  ftnd  look  after  us  with  a  perfect  heaven 
of  love  62i  her  face — ^this  poor  one-eyed  Madonna— until 
the  traih^as  (mt  of  sight;  hut  the  ftiauj  Sordidly  happy 
with  his  gains,  did  not  put  himself  t?o  the  ineonvenienee 
of  one  glance  to  thank  her  for  her  lU-deserved  kindness. 

-^Rdhert  Louis  Slievenson. 
In  letter  to  Mrs. .  StiUwell,  Sept.  16,  1873. 

A:9Mo.J)e«4  ■  ■'    =    '.    • 

It  was  very  dark  iii  the  east  corridor  of  the  Armory, 
and^  save  for'^fe  quiet  footfall  of  the  ever-»i^atehjfuror*- 
derly,  there  was  no  sound  in  the  silent  room  where  the 
nation 'fe  dead  lay  wikt>P^d-i»6  th^  great  silk  Mg.  '  In- the 
shadoW' of  the'  staiirtray,  ai'  group  of '^ecret-sferyieeitien 
werfe' liervously  \VliLitfperilig  among  themselv^; 'with  oc- 
casional glafabeS  that  strove  to  penetrate  the  black  void 
that  lay  beyond' thteerape4iung  doorway.'' 

Their  siferg^nt  stood  a  little  apart  from  the  others, 
an  alert  figure,  with  a  hand  that  lingered  suggestively' 
ab6ttt  his'  hip-pocket;  Ftir  three  days  he  had  kept  ti«i^' 
wearied  watch  white  thousands  had  paid  their  last  horn-' 
age  to  the  dead  servant  Of  the  people,  atid  the  strain' 
A^as  tellfdg  upon  him.  The  nation  had  lost  a  hero,  but 
John  Micl>onald  had  lost  his  idol— and  his  best  friend. 


^Q  TYPES  OF  PB09B  NABBATXVES 

Through  his  mind  waci  sleeping  a  sti^ng  r&vulsion  at 
conditions  which  could  have  fostered  so  wanton  a  mur- 
der; and  a  sudden  and  pa9iM.onatQ  hatred  of  the  dark 
race  to  ^hose  salvation  this  man  had  been  a  martyr 
threatened  almost  to  unman  this  stern  son  of  ^he  service. 
That  very  day  he  had  sent  away  with  a  curse  a  jxaralytic 
old  negro  who  had  brought  his  handful  of  field-lilies  to 
the  bier  of  the  savior  of  hi^  race.  AlacDonald  had  felt 
n,o  qualm  at  his  action,  and  when,  }ater,  he  had  found 
the  poor  flowers  tying  withered  outside  the  closed  door, 
he  kicked  them  aside  with  an  oath.  In  a  measure,  the 
stern  old  Scotchman  had  not  been  responsible  for  his  ac- 
tioi^s  at  that  time,  for  it  was  ji^st  then  that  he  had 
heard, the  dread  rumor  which  was  spreading  its  dark 
wake  through  the  crapehung  corridors.  That  very  night 
while  the  whole  nation  was  yet  bowed  in  its  sorrow,  an 
attempt  was  to  be  made  fo  steal-  the  body  of  the  dead 
hero.  The  crime  seemed  scarcely  to  be  believed,  but  the 
men  of  the  secret-service,  scattered  throughout  the  dark 
corridor,  were  awake  and  reftdy* 

John  MacDonald,  striying  vainly  in. has  grief nsad- 
dened  heart  to  frame. a  reason  for  it  all^  wondered  how 
he  had,  bfeen  able  to  resjst  the  old  negro  with  his  tear- 
wet  face  and  pleading,  voice.  That  black  qreature  was 
a  man  like  himself,  and  he,  also,  had  lov^ed  the  great 
man  who  was  lying  so  quietly  in  the  folds  of  his  coun- 
try's flag,  '*0  Lincoln,"  he. spoke,  raising  a  clenched 
hsBbd  toward  the  black  doorw^,,  **they  have  murdered 
you,  they  have  taken  you  from  us,  but  still — '*  Sud- 
denly his  muscles  stiffened,  and  something  very  akin  to 
a  chill  crept  about  the  .roots  of  his  hair.  There  had  come 
the. quiet  but  unmistakable  sound  of  a  footfall  from  the 


PABTICULAB  ACCO!UNTS .  487 

raomwhcare.  the  dead  lay.  TK©  Scotehman  stood;  a;  mail 
of  stone,  and. while  his  very  hair  stilBEened  with  horror^  a 
mighty  wjrath  swept  over- his  whole  bdngl:  They  :were 
at  it,  then,  those  fiends  who:  dared  to  4^seerat8  the  body 
of  his  loud  with  their  filthy  touch.  With  a  movenient 
like  a  cat,  MacDonald  drew  his  ready  weapon,  and,  with 
a  call  to  his  startled  aubordinates^  stepped  boldly  over 
the  threshold.  i 

In  a  moment,  the  room  was  filled  with  the  glare-  of 
torches,  and  the  seoret^serviee  men,  crowding  in  the 
doorway,  saw  the  leveled  weapon  of'  their,  chief  sink  in- 
ertly, to  Ipia  side.    :  •  .     '  .        i 

'On  the  black  catafalque  the  hero  lay,  beneath  the 
outstrefeihed  wings  of  the  eagle  of  the  republicy  and  at 
his  ^eet^  sobbing  out  his  griel-stridkenlieart,'  knelt  an  old 
ii«gro4  •  -■••.'  •;-,.;.• 

'■'..•.  -riJda  ■Treat-.  • 

My  ^£r8t  Bay  at  School 

The  room,;wa^  mi/  la^g^  enough  foa?;  a  sphoolxoom. 
The »fliptQp,ithe; Wfftii,.  ^nd.  the.  i?ooJ.  wer^;  aJJ  u^ade;  of'  bam-i 
booi,:  In  .thei; center  .of. the. poQ?^  iwas  a  lwg,..wrrpw, 
ro^gblyrma^e  ft^bl^  aM  .whioh  ^at'  closely  fcw^^nty .  or  thirty 
pupils.  There  were  also  twoot  tbr^/b©nchcs  herjB  a»4 
thef»,  PD(  whiQhsat.new  boys  and  girls.  At  the  end  of 
the  long  table  sat  a  rather  old  but  fierce-looking  man, 
the  schoolmaster,  lit  Bfis^'Jeft  Mnd'^e  held  a  book,  and 
in  bis  Jright^  a  whip,;.ft?r;  at  thait  time. the  priij^jpleiigov- 
eraing  schools; was. that. kiw^wleflge.  jcojuldinot  be igain^ 
without  sftvert?  bodily  punishment*  :>>         r  «   .: 

When  :I  (aatered|.th<e  sohoqlroiQiai,  ipy./'qa^tiUa-'  in 
han^,' this  ^wa^i  the  ft?$t.sceD,e.  that  .met  my  eyesi  ;  It  ihap? 


488  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

pened  that  Titay,  a  cousin  of  mine,  had  been  sent  to 
school  on  that  day  also ;  so  we  had  the  same  lesson.  In 
harsh  tones  the  teacher  ordered  us  to  study  the  vowels 
of  the  Spanish  alphabet.  And  with  a  loud  voice  we  re- 
peated again  and  again,  ay  e,  i,  o,  u,  until  we  knew  them 
— 'at  least  we  thought  so— *by  heart. 

At  last  our  turn  came ;  and  we  were  called  to  go  to 
our  teacher.  My  cousin  (a  girl)  was  at  his  left  side, 
while  I  was  at  his  right. 

**What  is  this?"  the  teacher  asked  my  cousin. 

*'A,"  she  answered,  correctly. 

However,  at  his  second,  third,  and  fourth  questions, 
she  was  confused  and  could  not  answer.  But  I  really 
knew  ''a,  e,  t,  o^  u/'  by  heart,  for  my  kind  mother  had 
taught  them  to  me ;  so  I  proudly  corrected  every  mistake 
she  had  made.  After  every  correction,  the  teacher  would 
say  to  irie,  *^Tira  la  oreja''  (meaning,  **Pull  her  ears'')- 
And  with  what  boyish,  pleasuxe  ,did  I  pull  her  ears !  She 
cried  and  resolved  never  to  go  to  school  again. 
•  When  I  returned'  home,  I  was  Vei^  boastful,  and  told 
everybody  in  tie  household  of  my  triuuiph.  Thus  I  re- 
ceived encoiuragiBment  iii  my  first  school 'da;y,  and  after 
that  I  continued  tb  study  with  interest  till  1  myself  re- 
edved  some  bddity  punishment. '     •    ' 

— ^Maximo  M.  Kalaw. 

One  day  I  came  to  the  sdhoolhouse  tardy.  When  I 
entered  the  door,  I  saw  the  pupils  standing  side  by  side 
in  a  row  and  facing  the  teacher.  Thiere  was  one  colmim 
6f  numbei*s  on  the  blackboard,  near' whfoh  the  teacher 
stood  liv^ith  a  long  wodden  pointer  in'  his  htod.    As  soon 


PAJtTJGULAR  AOCOUNTB  489 

as  I  saw  the  pumbera  ob  the  hoftpd,  I  knew  at  once 
that  there  w(HiJd  be  a  contest*  So  I  taid  down  my  book« 
on  the  floor,  took  off  my  hat,  and  ;stood  next  to  the  last 
boy. 

* '.Teacher,  I^eopoldo  does  not  belong  here.  He  i9  the 
captainTgeneraL  Therefore, .  he  should  stand  next  to 
Federico/'  said, the  last  boy  as  ^o0n;;a$  he  saw.mci . 

''i^''  said  the  teacher,  *^he  came  in  tardy.  Boys, 
you  nmst  ieam  to  come  to  school  on  time;''  im-  eon? 
tinned.    ,  *  :  :  . 

The  teacher  then  gave  us  names :  he  named  .tiie  first 
bo^  jgenieral,  the  second  major-general,  the  third  captain- 
general,  and  so  on.  J,  being  the  last  boy,  was  named 
ranchero,  or  the  coofc'oftl&  army.  '^'" 

^*H[e.wl;o..is  the  general  at  the. end  pf  the  eqi^test 
will  be  given. a  cup  p^^tfinafaw  as  a,p;qze,"  aaid  tbe 
teacher,  ^  •  .    _  ,.     •  ,  .,j      •,.•-.:. 

';Npw  beg^i,  ]VIartin,".he  coj^tinued..  Martin  began 
to  add  the  numf^ers  on  the.  l^oard, with  arCt^uracy,  and 
finished  within  forty  second^*.  The  major-gj^neral  did  the 
same,  but  l^e-finished/yfithiafprty-five  secpnds.    The  cap»- 
tain-geneiral  .added  the  nujnbers  withic^  f pirty-twp  sepr 
on^s.    So  he  p.ullqd  the  ear  of  tlxe  ni^jojr^general^  and 
they  changed,  plaeies.  ;  3efo;*e.  my  turn  came,  tber^ 
had  been  ;many.  changes  already,  a  soldier  bafi  befiten  a 
colonel, .a  sergeapt  had; passed  a  lientenant. 
/.'All  ri^)it„  Lepppldo/'  said  the  teajch^. 
''One-T-*ix — fourteen  -r-  twenty-two-^thirty— ^thirty- 
six— forty-flve.      ,Carry    four.      Eight-^teia-|-fifteen — 
twenty-one— twenty-nine — ^thirty-flve — forty!"    .1  said 
without  ^topping  to  take  a  breath. 

/* Forty  seconds!"  announced  the  teacher*        . 


14:90  TYPB8  OP  PIfeOSB  NAUKATIVES 

The  teacher  wftAted  to  try  me  Agaiii,  but  the  boys 
Bdid  they  should  like'toliear  the  general  first. 

**A11  right.    Qo  on,  Martin,"  said  the  teacher. 

This  time  Martin  failed.  He  finished  within  thirty- 
seven  seconds,  but  he  made  a  mistake.    The  boys  shouted. 

Fortunately,  the  time  Was  up.  So  I  was  pronounced 
the  victor.  The  teacher  bought  a  cup  of  guinatan,  the 
sweet  f  ridt  niixture  that  Filipino  children  so  much  love, 
and  gave  it  to  me.  I  was  very  proud  then.  When  I 
reached  home,  I  told  my  mother  all  that  had  happened. 
She  was  very  happy. 

— -Leopoldb  Faustino.. 

n.    The  Aneodole 

In  the  sense  in  which  a  pr overt)  is  a  condensed  para- 
ble, *  an  anecdote  is  a  condensed  character-sketch  or 
Moaning  biography.  Like  many  of  our  other  terms 
of  the  the  word  *'^  anecdote*'  itself  reveals  to  an  ex- 

*«^  tent  its  present  meanSrig;:    It  is  derived  from 

the  Or^ek  and  signifies  '* something  not  published." 
This  is  the  sense  In  which  Cifeeto  usfes  it  when  he  speaks 
of  a  book  of  anecdotes  on  ivhich  he'  was  engaged,  but 
which  he  talks  of  confiding 'to  a  stnglefriend  only,  as  if 
it  were  not  iiitelided  ever  to  be  published:  In  litera- 
ture the  tvord  has  bieen  used  to  denote  either  secret 
histories  or'!pWtio!ns  of  ancient  writers  ivhich  have 
remained  long  in  maiiuscript  akd  are  edited  for  the 
fii^^t  time.  ^*he  sinecdotes  of  Procopius,  ivhicli  were 
published  in  London  in  16T4  under  the  title  "The  Se- 
cret  History  6f  the  Court  of  Jtrstinito,'^  are  evidence 
of  the  first  significance;  and  Di*.  Johnson's  reference 

the  EngKsh-French  fashion  of  using  the  word  for  a 


'       PARTICULAll  ACCOUNTS  491 

^'biographical  minute  passage  of  private  life*'  estab- 
lishes the  second  meaning. 

In  onr  day;  collections  of  anecdotes — criticisms  and 
observations,  smart  sayings  and  ludicrous  tales,  deliv- 
ered by  Eminent  men  in  conversation  and  recorded  by 
theii*  friends;  or  discovered  among  their  papers  after 
their  death,  and  put  together  with  historical  inci- 
dents concerning  them — ^are  published  under  the  term 
ana. 

The  ancients  were  in  the  habit  of  indulging  in  thi^ 
species  of  literature.  Prom  earliest  periods  Oriental 
hations  have  preserved  the  intimate  talk 
oi  their  wise  men.  From  them  the  Greekis 
and  Romans  took  \xp  the  practice.  Plato  ^nd  Xenophon 
recorded  the  colloquially  ei^pressed  ideas  of  their  master 
Socrates.  It  appears  that  JuliUs  Caesar  compiled  a  book 
of  apophthegms  ill  which  he  related  the  bon  mots  of 
Cicero,-^  and  a  freedman  bfth^t  brator,  tkken  with  his 
master's  liveliness  and  wit,  composed  three  books  of  a 
work  entitled  **De  Jocis  Ciceronis.'^ 

But  the  term  ana  seems  to  have  been  applied  to 
such  collections  only  so  far  back  as  the  fifteenth  cen- 
tury. The 'information  and  anecdotes  pi^^'^ed  ^j_j^^^^jj|.jj 
up  by  Pbggio  and  his  friend  Barthelemi  century 
Moritepbliliano  during  a  literary  trip  in  coUectioma 
Germany  '< are  to  be  called,''  i^ays  another  friend  in 
a  letter,  **Poggiana  aiid  MOntepolitiana. "  Perhaps  the 
most  typical,  and  surely  a  very  famous  and  intereisting, 
production  of  this  species  of  narrative  iii  English  is 
the  **Walpoliana,"  a  transcript  of  the  literary  con- 
versation of  Horace  Walpole,  Earl  of  Oxford.  Selden's 
**Table  ^alk''  was  considered  by  Dr.  Johnson  good 


492  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  KAREATIVES 

ana,  better  than,  tbe  French,  But  incomparably  supe- 
rior to  all,  a  collection  the  mo&t  irem^rkabl^  in  the 
English  language — and  indeed,  in  any  language  (us  a 
writer  in  the  **Britannica"  asserts) ---is  Jani)^  BosweU's 
*'Life  of  Samuel  Johnson/'  Though  papt  conforming 
to  the  typi^of  collection  eithjer.in  n^me  or  in  fprm  of 
presentation,  this,  according  to  Carlyle,.  **the  greatest 
production  of  the  eighteenth  centuiy,''  depends  for. its 
value  mainly  upon  its  ana.  '*Its  interest, '^  the  same 
writer  goes  on  to  say,  '*ari^0s,  not  frojp  the  details  it 
furnishes  of  the  events  of  Dy.  Johnson's  career,  still 
less  from  any  attempt  at  a  discriminating,  .estimate  of 
his  work  and .  character,  but  the  graphic,  represefita- 
tion  it  gives  of  his  habitual,  mapner  of  life,  and  speech. 
The  animate  greatness  of  tfohnspn  appears,  more. than 
in  all  his  writings,  ii^  his  portrait  dejii^^ated  with  the 
exactness  pf  sha^ply^defin^d.  photograph,  ^  he  ap- 
peared, to  th^  eyes  of  his  admiring  biographer^  in  his 
daily  deshabille./' 

That  is  the  secret  of  anpqdote— it  jmust  get  at  the 
real  man  in  however  small,  a  part.        .. 

While  a  book  of  ana  is  a  collection  of  short,  pointed, 
true  colloquial  relations  of  mpre.,pr  les;s  detaqh^d  inter^ 
esting  p:^rtic\ilars  cpncerning  a  person  of  cpjipequence, 
a  single  anecdote  is  oa3ie.pf,  those  interest^ing  partioulars 
entirely  detached,  shorty  pointed,  4ruq,  ^nd  coUoquiaL 
A  book  of  anecdotes  is  a  group  of  stories,  miscellaneous 
spiar  as  so^bject  matter  is. concerned.  .Spencers  *' Anec- 
dotes" is  a.  very  famous  eighteenth  century  lit erairy 
set; ;  and  Percy's  is  an  early  nineteenth,  with, the  stories 
seileeted — as.. the  ; preface  pstensibly  giyes  notice — for 
their  mpraj..  effect,  and  arranged  according  to  the  virtue 


PARTtetJLAB  ACCOUNTS*  493 

illustrated  ot  the  subject  treated— humaility,  generos- 
ity, kindness ;  science,  art,  and  so  on. 

As  we  have  seen,  to  be  most  interesting  an  anecdote 
must  be  singularly  expressive  of  the  ^peculiarities  of  the 
pers<)ii:  represented;  or  if  the  event  recorded  jjowto 
is  not  in  the  ioii&  of  a  character  episode,  but  \n:itoati 
rather  m  the  form  of  an  unusual  happening,  *»«c<*ot« 
it  must  be  consonant  with  the  accepted  popular  notion 
of  the  man's  pen^onality.  To  write  an  original  anec- 
dote-you  will  need  to  pick  out  of  your  past  experience 
or  th^  experienoe  of  some  one  of  your  acquaintances  a 
story  of  a  more  or  less  important  personage  in  your 
neighborhood,,  a  happening  that  has  never  hitherto 
been  written  down.  If  the  person  concerned  is  not 
very  weU  known  or  it  the  trait  of  character  revealed 
would  not  be  immediately  recognized  by  his  friends, 
yoti  might  prefix  a  slight  statement  that  will  help  point 
ypur  iiarrativei  Remiember^  , however,  that  an  anecdote 
must  he  very  brief;  xilsa  that  it  must. have  a  single  and 
complete  climax;,  and  that  yoti  must  under.no  circum- 
stance be  induced  to  add  another  word  after  the 
clin^ax  is  reached. 

Coleridge's  Betort 

Samuel  Taylor  Coleri^g^  was  so  bad  a  horseman 
that  when  her  mounted  he  generally  attracted  unfavor- 
■ablei  notice.  "'On  a  certaiii  occasion  he  was  ridiig  along 
a  turnpike  road  in  thie  country  x>f  Durham,  when  he  was 
met  by  a  wag,  who,'  mistaking  his  man,  thought  the  rider 
a  ^ood  subject  for  sport.  "I  say,  young  man,**  cried  the 
rustic,  '*did  you  see  a  Mlor  on  the  roadT*    '^Yes,  I 


494        TYPi;3  OF  PROSE  NABKATIVES 

did;  and  he  told  me  that  if  I  went  a  little  farther,  I 
should  meet  a  goose/' 

An  Inevitable  Misfortune 

When  Boswell  was  first  introduced  to  Dr,  Johnson, 
he  apologized  to  him-  for  being  a  Scotchman.  *'I  find," 
said  he,  **that  I  am  come  to  London  at  a  bad  time  when 
great  popular  prejudice  has  gone  forth  against  us  North 
Britons ;  but  when  I  am  talking  to  you,  I  am  talking  to 
a  large  and  liberal  mind,  and  you  know  that  I  cannot 
help  coming  from  Scotland."  *^Sir,  replied  the  doctor, 
archly,  *'no  more  can  the  reat  of  your  countrymen." 

A  Point  Needing  to  Be  Settled 

A  Scottish  clergyman,  being  one  day  engaged  in 
visiting  some  member  of  his  flock,  came  to  the  door  of  a 
house  where  his  gentle  tapping  could  not  be  heard  for 
the  noise  of  contention  inside.  After  waiting  a  little,  he 
opened  the  door  and  walked  in,  saying  with  an  au- 
thoritative voice,  '*I  should  like  to  know  who  is  the  head 
of  this  house?"  : 

''Weel,  sir,"  said  the  husband  and  father,  '*if  ye  sit 
doon  a  wee,  we'll  may  be  able  to  tell  ye,  for  we're  just 
trying  to  settle  that  point." 

Patience 

When  Lord  Chesterfield,  was  one  day  at  Newcastle 
House,  the  Duke  happened  to  be .  particularly  bu^y,  so 
the  Earl  was  requested  to  ^it  down,  ir^  an  anteroom. 
** Garnet  upon  Job,"  a  book^dcdicated  to  the  Duke,  hap- 
pened to  lie  in  the  window ;  ajtid  his  Grace,  upon  enter- 


PAETICULAB  ACCOUNTS    ,  4C)& 

ing  found  the  Earl  so  hxusily  engagfsdi.in  readin^v  tbpt. 
he  asked  how  he  liked  the  commentary.  **In  any  othex 
place/'  replied  Chesterfield,  *'I  should  not.  thipik  much 
of  it;  but  there  is  such  great  propriety  in- puttinig:  a 
voltim^  upon  patience  in  the  room; wberd. every  visitor 
has  to  wait  fqriyour  Grace,  thati^h^re  itiOiUrt  be  cpn- 
sidered  as  one  of  the  best  books  in  the  world.'' 

PreaduHg  and  Practice 

Dr.  Channing  had  a.brotbei?,  ^  physician,  and  at  one 
time  they  both  lived  in  Boston.  One  day,  a  countryman 
in  search  of  a  divine,  knocked  at  the  docior/s  door,  When 
the  following  dialogue  ensued :  '  ' 

*'Poes  Mr.  Ghamiing  live  here?'* 

''Yes,  sir.'' 

''Can  r  seeliim!^^ 

"I  am  he.'' 

*^Who— you?'* 

"yes,sii-""  '    '  "    ■''■■'■;       ^      '  ;    •  ;_■  ; 

"You  must  have  altered  considerably  since  I  heal-d 
you  preach  I'"'  .  " 

"Oh,  1  see  your  mistsike  now.  It's  iny  bi'other  who 
preaches,    I  practice.'' 

Jplw80Dr/a  DlctlAnmr 

When.Dr;  Joh^ison  had  completed  bis  djictionary, 
which  had  quite  exhausted  the  patience  of  ,Mr».Andxew 
Millar,  l^is  bopfejieller,  th^  latter  acknowledged  the. re- 
ceipt of  thc'last  sheet,  in  the  following,  note:     ,         ,  '  ,  - 

"Andrew  Millar.^ends.  his  eompliments  to  Mr;  Sam-, 
uel  Jphnson  with  the  mone^  for  the  la^t  sheet  of  the 


496  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NARBATIVES 

copy  of  the  dictionary,  and  thanks  God  he  has  done  with 
hira.'' 

To  this  rude  note  the  doctor  returned  the  following 
smart  answer: 

**  Samuel  Johnson  returns  his  compliments  to  Mr. 
Andrew  Millar,  and  is  very  glad  to  find  (as  he  does  hy 
his  note),  that  Andrew  Millar  has  the  grace  to  thank 
God  for  anything." 

■^-Bercy's  ** Anecdotes/* 


\ 


me  Boy  Kipling 

.  Rudy ard  Kipling's  keen  and  sympathetic  under- 
standing of  all  the  diversified  and  picturesque  varieties 
of  human  nature  found  in  British  India,  is  too  well  rec- 
ognized as  part  of  his  power  to  need  assertion;  but  a 
little  anecdote  which  his  mother  remembers  of  his  boy- 
hood is  not  without  a  pretty  allegorical  significance.  It 
was  at  Nasik,  on  the  Dekhan  plain,  not  far  from  Bom- 
bay, when  the  little  fellow,  trudging  over  the  ploughed 
field,  with  his  hand  in  that  of  the  ^ative  husband- 
man, called  back  to  her  in  the  Hindustani,  which  was 
as  fa^miliar  to  him  as  EugUsh,  *'Good-by,  this  is  my 
brother!''  •      ,      \ 

-Professor  Norton,  in  a  biographical  sketch. 

Blr  ^dfrey  BLneller 

Pope  tells  the  following  story^  about  the  great  por- 
trait painter :         / 

''As  r  wa^  sitting  by  Sir  Godfrey  Kneller  one  day, 
whilst  he  was  drawing  a  pictiire!,  he  stopped  and  said : 
T  can't  do'  so  Well  as  1  should  do,  unless  you  flatter  me 
a  little;  pray  flatter'  me,  Mr'.  Pope!  ybii  know  I  love 


PAHTICULAE  ACCOUNTS  .1  497 

to  be  flattered.'  I  was  at.onee  williag  to  try  how  far 
his  vanity  wo.uld  cariy  Mm,  and,  after  cpil$d(iering  a  j]|i^-< 
ture,  which  he  had  just  finished,  for  a  good  while  very 
attentiTely,  I  said  to  him' in  Freneb  (for  he  bad  bBen 
talking  for  some  timie  before  in.  thmt  lamguage) :.  ' '  On  lit 
dans  les  :fierittire8  Saintes^  qte  le  bon  Dieu  iaisolt. 
rhomme  aprds  son  image :  mais;  je.<!roiS)  que  s -il  voudroit 
faire  un  autre  a  present,  qu'il  le  £eroit  apse$  ripxagci  qiie. 
voila.'  Sir  Godfrey  turned  round  and  said  very  gravely, 
*Vous  avez  raison,  Mons  Pope;  par  Dieu,  je  le  crois 
aussi.'*'  .'  — ^Pope. 

Here  is  anotheip:  Mr.  Pope  was  with  Sir  Godfrey > 
Kneller  one  day,  whte  hiS:  n6ph^w,  a  Guinea  trader, 
came  in.  ^^  Nephew/ 'said  Sit  Godfrey, '''yqu  have  the 
honor  of  seeing. the  two  greatest; men  in  the.  world."  /'X 
don't  know  how-  gri^at  you  may  be^"  said  the  Guij^ea 
man,  '^but  I  don't  like  your  looks;  I  have  oft^n  bought 
a  man  mudh  better  than  both  of  you  together^  aU  mi^ 
clesand  boaei^for^ten  gainead."  i  •  •    . 

'  *-r-Dr.  Warbi^rjtoa. 


\ 


The  Cupilvi  MuniGipiai  and  tlie  Jokers 
Once  there  liv«d  intheltpWn  of  Balanga  asi,  old  ,Ca]i>ir 
tan  Mui^icipal  who/  Was*  nicknamed  earabaQ ;.  for  he,  w;as 
a  very  big  man  and  also  a  Very>great  eater. 

One  day  as.  a  'lend  parade  was  going,  on  in  bopor  ,9! 
Dr.  Rizal,  three  weil^knoWn /jokers  of  the.  town  were 
following  the  procession, 'when,  they  suddenly  capi^itoia 
small  pond  in  the  street.  And  otie  of  them  said,  f  ^What 
a  nice  time  our  publie  carabab  had  taking  his  mjld-day 
bath  in  .here. "    *'  Oh !  yes,  he  must  have  had  a  very  good 


498  TYPES  OF  PKOSE.  NARRATIVES 

timfe  indeed,"'  replied  the  tw6*  But : uneltpectedly  the 
Cfiipitan  i^a»  at  their  badk;  heariinf  all.  they  said  about 
hitn;  '. 

l?hfeTefore  as  soon  as  the- processiola.wab  over,  they 
were  Arrested  in  tiie  Mtmicipal  buildmg.  And  on  the 
next  day  th€ly  wei^e  tried  and  sentfenced  by  the  Capitan 
to  fill  in  all  th-e  ponds  of  the  streets  around  the  town, 
and  also  to  drain  them  properly. 
'  — Jose  Feliciano. 

An  Instance  of  Bamboo  Spanish 

In  the  Ateneo  de  Manila  all  the  pupils  are  forbidden 
to  speak  any  language  except  Spanish. 

One  day  the  pupils  df  the  oolkge  went  out  to  the 
yard  to  play  baseball.  '  it  happened  Ihat  One  of  the 
boys  who  was  watohing  the  game  was  hurt  at  the  knee- 
joint,  and  fell  down  on 'the  ground.  The.  boy  cried  so 
loud  that  the  rector  at  once  went  hurriedly  to  see  what 
wai^  happening  in  the  yard.  '  He  saw  the  boy  sitting 
on  the  ground  with  one  of  hisleipa  bent:  He  approached 
himj  and  said,  **What  has  happened  to  you,  my  boy?" 
And  the  boy  feeling  yet  the  pain  that  the  ball  had 
caused  him,  aiiswereidi  "Fafeer,  %hife  I  was  watching 
niy  crimpantens  wirp  Hi^efre  plajHugibaisibaE  my—,  nay — ," 
'^What?f^feaid  the  i^fttor,  infpiatiently-.  ^'Father,  my—, 
my — ,^'  answ^^'^the  boy,  showiafe  bis'kneejc^iit  as  he 
was  'pronouiieing  ther^wwd  *'my.'f'  i  ^^©o  yomnean  your 
leg?"  said' thie  rectot,  '*^No,  fathei  I  mean  my:—,"  re- 
plied'the  boy.  ''^Btityoiir what, ^^'(aaedthe  rector,  **say 
What  ybii  mean  to  say: ' '  Th6  boy,  who  was  trying  hard 
to  find  the  word  in  Spanish  for  kiiee joint,,  answered  at 
last,  **my  ^n€hVinohaifi,  father,  was  hurt.'*    The.  rector, 


PABf  lOULAB  ACCOVmiS  499 

though  Yesj  angry  at  tbe  boy's  duUneBs,  laughed  heartily 
at  Im  dietionaiy-makizig  powers. 

NOTi>T-The  word  in  Tag»log  for  knee-joint  is  '*alak- 
alakai^,V  wbieb  is  ,siiiiilar  to  the  Tagalog  word  '*alak/' 
meaning  wine  in  £iigUfdBi>and  wno  in  Spanish.  The  boy, 
not  knowing'  tlie  paxvper^word:  in  Spanish  for  knee-joint, 
derived  the  woid  *'vino*vinohan"  feom  the  Spanish 
word  vino,  which  means  alak  (wine)  in  Tagalog. 


\ 


Mr.  Taft'»  Mi9talce 

It  wasa  briglht  day  when  a  orowd  of  pecfple  stood 
before  a  platform,  decorated  with  palm  leaves  and  roofed 
with  a  bennQir  of  stajas  a|id  stripes.  The  eyes  of  tiie 
spectators, ..who  were  all  eageir  to  bear  the  speech  of  the' 
well-known  eloquent  :orator  and.  skillful  politician,  Mr. 
W|lliam  H.  Taft^  wer^^  fixed. on  the^  pe^onages  on  the 
platform,       ,.  ..... 

At  lai^t,  after  an  .ovation  by  the  multftiiidiB,  Mr.  Taft 
rose  up  ^nd  addressed  the  audieiM^e  thlis:  ^^Sefiorm  p 
caballos/^  ^  .     ;  .    ,  .  ' ' 

,     .       — ^A^ando  Olemente, 


V 


in.    The  Sye-Witnes|3  Account 

Eyo-witBiess  account  is  to  true  story  what  rieatlism. 
is.  to  fiction^  .Epf;a(?tness  is  the  aim  ^f  the  narraton 
He  en^eavpira  to  tell  preciselyr  what  be  saw  and  hfeard. 
A  great,  deal  of' our  newapajper  ^'<jopy"  is  sitppiosed  to 
bjB  of  tiib  typf,.j|,nd  likewise  muqh  eourit  testimony* 
The  attorneys  .  try  tp  sepsa:at^  disitii^tly  fact,  from 
fancy.  What .  jjl  .piaii  really  must  have  seen  and  wha^t 
he  thought  he  saw  are  often  very  different.    It  appears 

iCahallos,  horses;  Cahalleros,  gentlemen, 


500  TYPES  OF  PBOSB  NABKATIVES 

at  first  that  an  uneittbellished  account  would  be  the 
easiest  thing  in  the  world  to  give,  but  it  takes  only  a 
little  observation  to  ooinviiiee  bne  that  few  persons  can 
tell  what  they  see  or  hear ;  few.  indeed  know  what  they 
see  or  hear*  Witti  the  bare. actuality,  they  are  con- 
stantly confounding  what  they  thaa;ght»  <»?'  inferred. 
As  a  rule,  only  the  man  educated  to  the  work  can 
report  truthfully, 

A  unique  and  curious  ancient  document  of  this  type 
is  found  in  a  little  book  that  was  published  by  the 
Spanish  Academy  Of  History  ih  1783,  callfed  "^El  Passo 
HonroBo''  or  the  Passage  of  Holidr.  *  It  is  a  formal  eye- 
witness account  prepared  on  the  spot  by  Belena,  bne  of 
the  authorized  scribes  of  John  11,  and  gives  minutely 
the  events  of  a  passage  of  arms  held  against  all  comers 
in  1484  at  the  bridge  of  Orbigo,  neai*  the  dty  of  Leon, 
during  thirty  days,  at  a  moment  when  the  road  was 
thronged  with  knij^ts- going  ovier  fo^j^  a  solemn  festival 
to  the  neighboring  riirine  of  Santiago.^  '  Suero  de 
Quinones,  the  challenger,  was  a  true  gentleman  of  chiv- 
alry, it  seems,  and  Had  been  wearing  in  sentimental 
bondage  to  a  noble  lady  a  chain  of  iron  around  his 
neck  one  day  in  each  Week/' '  From  his  'Bondage  he 
could  be  freed  only  by  bringing  to  her  as  rarisom  a 
minimum  number  of  real  j^pears  broken  fcy  him  and  his 
friends  in  fair  fight.  So  they  st6od— tdn  of  them — for 
thirty  days  challenging  all  comers:  'Btelina  records 
sixty-eight  opponents ;  sii  hundred  and"  twenty-seven 
encounters;  sixty-six  broken  lances;  one  dead  knight; 
and  many  wounded,  among  iAit^m  y^ete  Quifiones  him- 


iSee  Ticknor's  History  of  Spanish  Tiiterature — ^Volume  1,  page 
204. 


PABTICULAB  AO(X)UNTS  501 

self  and  eight  of  his  feUoW'^bl&mpioxtH,  Aldng  with  the^ 
general  narrative. is  a  faU.d/eeaun^tiOif.^be  Ireligidiufi  and. 
chiv^lrie  e^remoo^taft  tbe7'i?tiei^''aetuaUy;ii2dulg&d  iti 
from  d^j;  to  daj^.:  .S^iich  a  minute  and  elaborate;  and 
fully  aTath€intioated;ey;e-witiaies8.Tefcioffd  of  jibt  fietitious 
but  r^al  ''knightly  gnistsand  fieuoe  en^fcounterd-'  is 
manifestly  inyalu^ble  to  a  student  o£. chivalry. 

,  It  is  iftte?esting  to  think  of  this  dapper  young  serihe' 
sitting:  pn  the  side^lipes  watching  the  oombatants  and 
taking  down  his  ?iotfes  as  the  telliiig.rushes  wore  made 
by  either,  party  j.ai^d. then  sending  his  e^o^y  hot  from 
th^  p€^n  t9  hiei  Tftya4  r ead^p.  I  puppqsei  :W4^  imigJbt .  well 
call . .,  Sen  or  V  Ddefla.  th^  bistorioal .  prptotype .  »t  out 
m<3Kiern.atblptii^s  reppi'jter.  .  »    !;     :  ' 

.  ]^any  pf  oi^rb^  litenary  men;  bave  had  longer  qr 
shorter  apprenticeships  at  getting  **copy..''  Dickena 
served  fpr,  .a,.  Awxber:  of  years.  Ffictsfor  a  ueportei?  do 
nQt,opme:at  caJl^h^  ean  not  turn  them  pn^  so^to  speaks 
nor  is.  he  pejrmitted  to  make. them. upJ  U^  must  iit^' 
them.  Coipsequje^tlyrto  bet  sue<?essful  be  nei^s.to  have: 
an  ejs^r  fifor  newfi,:  ^-nd;  m  eje  foritbet  giiaphiCj  a  8U3a(i)le^ 
but  full  yo<jabulaaryj  and  a  .pen,  n^ade  supple  by  much 
practice.,  Hetai^st  seem  to  be  a;fc  home  in, any  depart-: 
ment  of  h^^lan  ficti^n^  AH  hi^.^ords  must  earry.witb. 
th^in  a  iajrge,  ton^.of  TieiiaQity;  He  -cap  h^^dly  aflfoi?d  ta 
mak.^  slips  even  x)n , his  mi^jior  d^jpiijs,  isin^i  bis  brpth^^ 
reporters, vis^t^  th^  8aj?a^  n^m^  #t  the  a$ime/tim^«  ..  ., 
Literary  •eye-witness :a<?couD|t,  jM>w^yery.ne^diTiot:be^ 
devoid  .of  4II  e:?:pi?ession.  of  per^opal  feeliipyg. ...  \%  is  ox^W' 
necessary  that  the  writer  make  clear  to  his  reader 
w:hich  are. thoughts*  and  feelings  and  which  are  f^cts. 
Indeed,  the  best  effect  ofsueh  a  narra1;ion,  will  often; 


S02  TYPES  OP  PBOSfi  liTARBAf  IVES 

come  from  the  contrast.  The  artist  lets  us  into  his  own 
state  of  mind,  describes  perhaps  mote  or  less  minutely 
the  stage-setting  of  his  little*  oeerarrence— especially  if 
any  part  is  necessary  to  complete  trnderstanding  later 
—portrays  in  general  the  types  of  pieople  who  were  or 
might  have  been  concerned,  and  theii  drops  from  his 
pen  one  by  one  the  facts  cold,  clear-cut,  unembellished, 
orderly  in  sequence,  with  their  particip^ants  graphically 
and  cleanly  outlined,  and  this(s  gailis  his  effect.  He  is  as 
precise  as  a  lawyer,  but  he  has  been  also  as  crafty,  in 
the  good  sense  of  the  word.  He  has  prepared  us  to 
appreciate  his  facts.  If  he  interprets  to  us  afterwards, 
he  does  so  in  a  reflective  and  an  apparently  hesitating 
way  that  seems  to  leave  us  in  full  possession  of  our  own 
opinions,  which  will  prove  to  be  in  reality  only  corrobo- 
rative of  his. 

It  will  be  good  practice  for  you  to  attempt  to  give 
an  eye-witness  account  of  some  (Occurrence.  If  two  or 
three  of  your  friends  were  present  at  the  same  happen- 
ingj  you  may  enjoy  comparitig  reports.  There  will 
probably  be  more  than  one  incident  to  relate;  if  there 
is,  you  must  be  careful  to  have  sequence  and  coherence 
in  all  that  you  say.  You  should  anticipate  and  answer 
any  questions  one  would  naturiEllly  ask  of  an  oral 
reiwrter.  Stop  when  you  have  finished.  Doubtless  you 
have  noticed  th^  unpleasant  habit  many  narrators  have 
of  starting  over*  again  and  repeating  all  or  part  of  the 
tale.  The  temptation  does  not  so  readily  come  to  a 
writer,  of  ccmrse,  as  to  a  speaker-sunless  the  writer  is 
paid  by  the  word. 

Tour  readers  will  not  resent  interpretation  even  if 
it  be  philosophical,  if  it  be  not  ihixed  with  the  narra- 


PAKTICULAB  AOCOUNTS  503 

tioB  and  be  only  lionest  and  o£  the  pragmatic  school — 
intenrogfttive  and  not  dogmatic.  Indeed^  umnkind  likes 
phUosophy  wh^n  it  seems  to  ecHae  as  am  inevitable 
though  teti^ative  snmming-Up  of  our  almost  bewilder- 
ingly  multi^e  phenomena. 

Story  of  the  Bevolution  in  the  Portuguese  Capital 

Cherbourg,  October  8. — On  board  the  Royal  Mail 
•  Ste^m  Packet  liner  Astnirias,  which  arrived  from  Liribon 
this  morning,  were  a  number  of  passengers  who  wit^ 
nessed  the  fighting  in  the  Portuguese  ca]Htal  on  WedAe»- 
day,  among  them  M.  Octave  Castaigne,  a  lawyer,  of 
Tournai,  who  was  among  the  passengers  by  the  Asiurias 
who  ventured  to  land  at  Lisbon  on.  Wednesday. 

''On  Tuesday  evening, *'  said  M.  Castaigne,  **we  were 
informed  by  a  wireless  message  that  the  revolution  had 
broken  out  in  Portugal.  From  far  out  at  sea  was  heard 
the  thunder  of  the  cannon  and  as  we  entered  the  Tagus 
the  crackle  of  rifle  fire.  On  oar  arrival  before  Lisbon 
we  noticed  that  the  cruisers  Sao  Rafael  and  Adamastor, 
which  were  flying  the  Bepublioan  flag,  were  still  firing 
on  the  town. 

''About  ten  o'clock  the  fosillade  ceased  and  a  party 
of  five  x)assengers,  including  two  Americans  and  myself, 
went  ashore,.  The  lower  part  of  the  tovm  had  the  ap- 
pearance of  a  city  of  the  dead.  The  houses  were  shut 
and  marks  of  rifl^-shots  and  shells  wer^  to  be  seen  every- 
where. The  centre  of  the  city,  on  the  contrary,  was 
alive  with  people.  The  crowd  wfts  vociferously  acclaim- 
ing the  Republican  flag,  which  was  flying,  not  only  from 
the  public  buildings,  but  from  nearly  every  house.  It 
struck  me  very  clearly  that  anyone  who  had  had  the. 


5Q4        TYPBS  OF  PBOSE  NABRATIVES 

courage  to.  shout ' '  Long  Kye  the  King ! ' '  would  have  been 
shot  dead  oil  the  spot.!  The  crowd  was  largely  composed 
of  soldiens  and  ^aikors  under  arms,  and  patrols  were  also 
moving  about  in  automobiles  to  any  part- of  the  town 
that  appeared  to  be  greatly  menaced  by  the  Royalist 
troops. 

'**We  reached  the  City  Hall,  which  was  surrounded 
by. a  huge' crowd,  jmt  at  the  moment  when  the  Republic 
was  being  proclaimed.  The  Republican  leaders  from  the ' 
balcony  of  the  building  were  haranguing  the  people, 
whose  enthusiasqi.was  indescribable.  From  time  to  time 
the  cheers  of.  the  crowd  were  broken  by  rifle  volleys  and 
the  reports  of  cannon. 

"When  the  official  ceremony  was  ended,  we*  succeeded 
in  entering  the  Gity  Hall.  The  new  Ministers  were  re- 
ceiving visitors  and  were  conversing  with  anyone  who 
presehted/  himaslf.  One  of'  the  passengers  by  the 
Asturias  approasked  Presi^nt  Braga,  and  in  a  short 
speech  ecmgratulated  him  on  the  proclamation  of  the 
Republic.  Dr.  Braga  Replied  that  he  was  happy  to  re- 
ceive our  visit,  and  added  that  the  Portuguese  Republic 
was  definitely  established. 

.  '-Aft^r  leaving  the  CSty  Hall,  we  proceeded  to  the 
mot^  dangerous  part/of  the^eity,  that  is  to  say,  the 
Ayenida  do  Liberdadd  and  the  Bom  Pedro  square.    The 
houses  showed' signs  tff  cahncAn  shots  and  the  roofs  of  the 
majority  of  them  had  collapsed;  •  The  Avcnida  do  Idber- 
dade  was:  still  iwicupied  by  the  oppocling  forces.     The 
Republican  trooi>s  occupied  one  end  of  the  street,  while 
the  Royalists  were  in  possession  of  the  other  extremity, 
being  separated  by  a  distance  of  about  five  hundred 
yards.    The  battle  was  stiU  in  progress.    I  admit  that  I 


PAETICULAR  ACCOimTS  506 

was  somewhat  affaid,  and  as  the  sliots  whiffdled  by  I  hid 
myself  behind  the  shelter  of  a  hoHse. 

*^At  the  risk  of  being  killed  any  toimite  oar  party 
succeeded  in  reaching  the  Avenida  restaurant.  That* 
part  of  the  restaurant  facing  the  Aveftida  do  Liberdade 
was  in  ruinis,  and  the  wails  were  full  of  biillel  holefe.  (M. 
Castaigne  has  saved  some  of 'the  bullets  .as 'souveniri^.) 
The  Recio  railway  station  had  been  (testroy^dby  artillery 
fire  and  the  railway  lines  had. been  torn  up;  The'Necessi- 
dades  Palace  shows  traces  of  numeirous.  shiells,  but  it  is 
stated  that  the  interior  of  the  royal  residence*  has  suffered 
even  more,  shells  having  i^mply  rained  on  thtft-  roof. 

**The  Red  Cross  Society  showed  aflniirable  deVotion 
during  the  fighting.  I  saw  its  members  go  into  the 
thick  of  the  fight  to  pick  up  the  Wcrundedy-Who  on 
Wednesday  were  estimated  to  number  over  a*  thousand. 
The  number  of  killed  is  considerable,  but  At'  the  timo 
it  was  impossible  to  obtain- correct  ^figures;?' 

London,  October  9^^The  Royal  Mail-  Stfeam  Packet 
Ompany 's  steamer  Ahiurvas^  which  left  Lisbon  on  Thurs- 
day; arrived  at  Southampton  yesterday  morning,  hjgtviiig 
among  her  passengers  sfevetal  Eiigiishlnea  "ftnd  Sbuth 
Americans  who  witnessed  many  of' the*  episodes  of- the' 
revolution.  •  Among  these  was*  General'  Garcia,  Whbhas 
had  experience  enough  of  'r<w>hitIofl  in?  Soutb  ^Amieriea.  . 

The  general  told  an  '*  Evening  New^^eiolTfespond^nt- 
that  he  and  six  others  went  into^ Lisbon  on  "Wednesday. 
**We  found  the  streets!  littered  Witb'vroimded/'''%e  sAid. 
**A  body  of  troops  wa-s  being  inbtedfrom  dUe  side  of 
the  city  to  the  o!ther,'  and  in  the  districts  through  which 
they  passed  peopk  Vere  flying  panic-strifekien;  but  other* 
wise  everybody  was  orderly  and  the  city  was'qui^t.  ■ 


606  TYPES  OJP  PH08B  NABSATIVES 

''The  Republican  flags  were  on  the  bnitdin^  and  all 
trace  of  resistance  was  over.  Soldiers  wete  going  into 
shops  and  houses  pulling  down  pictures  of  the  king,  tear- 
ing them  upi  and  trampimg  them  underfoot.  As  we 
passed  along,  a  pklute-  of  the  King  came  flying  out  of 
a  doorway  and  dropped  at  our  feet.  My  seeretaxy  picked 
it  up.  He  T^a«  immediately  surrounded  by  soldiers,  who 
ordered  him  to  destroy  it  at  onee« 

^'I  went  to  the  municipal  buildings  and  there  saw 
members  of  the  provisional  government,  who  aUowed  me 
to  cable  to  my  own  government  in  Cuba*  I  should  say 
the  estimate  of  fifty  killed  and  three  hundred  wounded 
is  not  high  enough,  but  the  list  is  remarkably  small,  all 
considered.  I  have  seen  many  r'evolutions,  but  none  so 
beautifully  oarried  out  as  this." 

Paris,.  October  9.—**  The  abounding  joying  joy  of  the 
people — tempered  by  admirable  self-control^ — and  re- 
peated evidences  of  careful  organization — these  were  the 
things  which  impressed  me  most'* 

In  these  words  Mr.  Charles  H,  Sherrill,  American 
.  Minister  to  Argentina,  told  a  Herald  correspoiident  at 
the  Hotel  Majeatie  last  night,  of  a  visit  he  paid  to  Lisbon 
on  Wednesday,  a  feWnhours  after  the  overthrow  of  the 
Portuguese  mojiarohy.  With  Mrs.  Sherrill  and  their 
young  son  he  was  a  pasa^ger  on  the  AatuHay  which 
touched  at  Lkbon. 

''The  shooting  begun  about  two  o'elook  on  Tuesday 
morning,''  he  Qootisiued.  **It  was  at  six  o'clock  on 
Wednesday  morning  that  we  came  into  the  harbor.  The 
bombardment  of  the  palaxse  had  ceased,  but  with  our 
glasses  we  could  see  the  dents  which  the  shells  had  made 
in  the  walUiw. 


PABTICULAB  ACCOU^'T3  M7 

''I  disembarked  at  about  one  o'clock  in.  the  afternoon 
and  went  to  the  American.  Legation  to  see  if  it  had 
suffered  dajnage.  I  fo\ind  the  streets  swarming  with 
inhabitants,  whp  were  singing  and  shouting  in  ,their  joy. 
Save  for  this  celebration  there  were  few  evidences  of  the^ 
conflict  in  the  lower  part  ol  the  town. 

.  ''But  it  was  different  in  the  Avenida,  the  broad 
thoroughfare  leading  to  the  elevation  back  of  the  eity; 
The  insurgents  had  permitted  the  Royalists  to  form,  in 
Eocjo  square,  in  the  doWn  town  district*  The  insurgents 
then  took  thdr  position  on  the  hills  above,  holding  the 
Soyali^ts  in  a  trap,  hedged  in  on  the  other  side  by  the 
attacking  ships  in  the  bay. 

''From  the  elevation  at  the  upper  end  of  the  field, 
guns  had  been  aimed  down  the  Avenida.  The  avenue 
had  been  stripped  of  trees,  windows,  bad  been  diattered 
and  the  fronts  of  buildings' which  projected  farther  than 
others  had  been  partly  demolisdied*  The  Aipieriean  Legar 
tion  escaped  even  the  slightest  damage. 

''Occasionally  I  encountered  a  wall  which  .bore 
striking  evidence  of  the  battle.  Blood  was  matted  upon 
it  and  blood  had  ooagulated  in  the  gutters, .  indicating 
only  too  plainly  that  several  lives  had-  been  lost  there: 
Whole  groups'  in  the  sidewalk  had  been  mowed  down  by 
shell  from  the  field-guns. 

"Nearly  every  man  I  Baw  and  many  boys  carried' 
guns.  They;  w^re  not  rifles  of  thjs  '  homespun '  variety—- 
these  armsH-but  MaUsers  and  equally  effective  weapons: 
These  were  evidences  of  preparation.  Fully  a  thousand 
people  were  waving  flags — ^the  red  and  green  flag  of  the 
new  Republic —  a  further  proof  that  the  revolution  had 
not  come  just  when  it  did  by  a<ecident. 


S08  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARHATIVES 

**For  the  new  Poftdgnese  flag  is  a  rather  complicated 
affair.  Across  a  blue'  circle  in  the  o^tre  is  a  curved  line 
in  white  bearing  the  inscription,  'Patria  e  Liberdade.' 
Halif  the  spae©  at  the  ^backgitmnd  is  I'ed— devolution— 
and  green,  symbolizing  hope. 

**I  followed  a  crowd  and  a  band  into  the  City  Hall. 
There  in  a  large  room  I  saw  the  President  and  his  cabinet 
in  session,  probably  drawing  nj)  one  of  "the  new  govern- 
ment's addresses  to  the  people^  It  Vas  plain  to  me  that 
these  were  not  men  who- had  be^n  •  pitchforked'  into 
ofBice  over  night.  Their  appearaoice  was  that  of  sober, 
responsible  officials.  I'Was  simply  a. K^urioidty-seeker,  of 
course,  and  kept  my  identity  concealed. 

->  As  I  walked  alo(Dg  I  heard  two  shots  fired  in  a  side 
street.  A  moment  tefter  a  eartd^ove  by*  in'  which  lay 
two^  bodiea^  A  ioFOwd  formed -at  th^  scefie  of  the  shoot- 
ing, bat  there  was.  nq  suspicion  of  a  riot.  Among  the 
thoiasands  of.  ptople  I  saw  thjat  day  tibere  was  not  a  single 
person  who  appeared  to  b^imder  the  influence  Df  liquor. 
There  seemed  to  be^nO' looting;  no  butt^g^es  were  com- 
mitted. It  was  a'  most  imj^refiteive^  object-lesson  of  the 
self-oontvol  which  a  Latin 'people  is  able  to  maintain 
when  it  is  imbued  with  a  serious  ptirposef; 
.  •  ♦'Ooiuiltry  folk  werie*  pouring  into  l^omur  by  the  thou- 
sands, and  these  reflected  the  j^^and-  satisfaetion  felt 
by:  the*  re^idez^ts  of  the  ofty^  i  They  afforded  a  rebuke 
to  the  suspiciw  thai:  the  revolutioiiatfy  feeing  was  con- 
fined to  Lisbon  itself  * .  Thei  spirit  of  the  "pebple  was  best 
^psressed  by  two  wards,  (imposing  a  ^bieradlitxe  which 
sti%tehed  aarossthe  front  page  of  an  aftemfoon  news- 
pAT^eit.   Translated,  it  read  simply :  ^  At  Last !  * 

**And  it  was  apparent  also  ttiat'th^  revolution  was 


PAETICULAB  ACCQUJ^TS  509 

accQ^ip]i,9^Qd,  with  a^  little  blopdshjsd  as  posi^ible..  The 
insurgents  were  inercifvU— rif.that  t^ra  is  peri^issible  in 
thia cpm^ectipn.  Shells  fire4  from, the  ships  in  the  bay 
lyere.  direqtjad  in  .such  a  way  th.a,t  \hey  should ,  lexplode 
over  .tbp.tpwn,  Qftrryin,g  the  desired  warning,  bu,t  caus- 
ing thp  ipinimum  amount  of  damagp.     , 

*  *  i;  w^ji  told  that, , t^e ,  dea4.  and  ^vpunded  jaumbered 
thr^e.t]tLOusft»|i^,.  I.fl.ip^cei:taiA.this  wa«  ja  great  exaggera- 
tion. ■  My  e^ti^jate.  ip  ,about  600..  or  700,.  basiiig.  these 
figures  pn  iafor^^tion  obtaiQjB^^^t  the  headquarters  of 
the  Red  Cross  Society. 

*'Most.  of,  the.  residei^Ltsi  of  Lisbon  give  the  greatest 
share, pfcy^^it; for  tl^e  result  to.  the  seamen...,  J^  hero  was 
made '|of  every  sailor  who  appeared  in  the  streetsu  The 
crowds,  pheered  him  heartily,  but  the  army  .  pfficers 
arqused  mt^ch  le^  enthusiasm.  ,  ... 

*'Save  {pr  these  evidences  of  jubilation  Lisbon  was 
quiet  and. orderly— think  of  ,i]t,  only  a  few  hours  .after 
such  an  uprising  as  this}  The  bodies  of  the  dead  Jiad 
been  reipayefJi  the  wo.unded  were  being  nursed  ^nd.  busir 
ness  was.  proceeding  ^1  most  normally.  In  front  of  every 
bank  ^as  ^»g^ard  of.s^lj(?rs  to  protect  tl^e  ^fia^cial  inr 
terests  of  the , people,. .  It  seems  strange  tha,t  I,;who  have 
lived  in.  ^9!uth,  America,  two  years,  wa^  forced  tp  coiriie 
to  Euijppe  in  order  to  se^  a  revplutipn/'    .  ,  . 


A  Contrast 


On  the  night  of  February  4,  1910,  the  eve  of.  the 
carnival,  I  wepit  to  take  a  walk  in  the  Luneta, ,  -^ready 
from  the  distance  I  could;  see  the  hippodrome  in  .the 
carnival  gro^ds  M^ell  .illuminated.  ''What  is, going  on 
in  there  ? ' '  I  a^ked  ipysel^f ,  find  not  being  able  tp  explain, 


510  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

the  matter,  and  urged  by  my  curiosity  to  know  every- 
thing, I  walked  in  that  direction. 

Many  people,  foreigners  as  well  as  natives,  were 
crowding  up  and  down  the  sidewjalk  nfear  the  fence  en- 
closing the  carnival  grounds.  There  Were  also  constab- 
ulary guards  at  almost  every  thirty  Spaces  to  prevent 
the  people  from  peeping  through  the  fence.  But  in  spite 
of  the  presence  of  these  guards  some'  people,  neverthe- 
less, seized  the  opportunity  that  offered  now  and  then 
while  the  guard  was  not  looking,  and  peeped  through  the 
fence. 

I  then  saw  that  I  was  not  the  only  one  who  was 
anxious  to  know  what  was  going  on  in  the  hipipodrome, 
and,  what  is  more,  my  anxiertjr  grew  stronger.  Then  a 
moment  came  when  I  lost  a  little  self-control,  and  I,  too, 
shared  some  of  those  opportunities  that  offered.  But 
suddenly  there  came  thfe  guard  who  warned  us  to  stop 
the  business.  At  that  vei*y  moinent,  an  American  came 
along  and  he,  too,  could  not  help  wanting  to  see  what 
was  going  on  Inside.  But  the  guard  went  to  him  at  once 
and  said:  *'No  Se  permite  eso,  si  tu  quieres  ver  lo  que 
hay  adentro,  puede  Vd.  pasar  por  la  puertii  central." 
''Vd.  sabi  inuy  bein  que  eso  no  veirdad,  sabi,'*  replied 
the  American  angrily.  Then  the  guard  told  him  that  he 
had  received  orders  to  see  that  people  did  not  peep 
through  the  fence.  '*To  h —  with  your  orders!'*  said 
the  American.  *  *  Well,  este  habla  el  commanding  oflBcer, ' ' 
replied  the  guard.  "Oh,  nom  porta!*'  At  this  moment 
an  American  policeman  came  along  and  asked  the  Amer- 
ican what  was  the  ixiatter.  *  *  This  fellow  wants  to  prevent 
me  from  peeping  through  this  f^nce  when  I  am  on  neu- 
ral ground.'*    '*Well,  that' is  just  what  I  am  going  to 


PABTICULAB  AGCOUNTS  511 

do,"  replied  the  policeman,  and  he  again  explained  him 
the  order.  '*I  don't  care  for  that  orderi"  *'WeU,  if 
you  don't  shut  up,  I  shall  take  you  to  the  police  station ! ' ' 
*  *  You  may ! ' '  Then  the  policeman  told  him  to  walk  on ; 
for  he  did  not  know  what  he  was  talking:  about.  ''All 
right/'  said  the  gentleman,  and  he  walked  away;  but  he 
came  back  and  asked  the  policeman  what  his  z^umber 
was.  ''It  makes  no  difference  what  my  number  is,"  said 
the  officer  of  the  law.  "Well,  I  want  to  know  it."  "My 
number  is  •— ,  and  my  name  is  ^. — -,;  and  what's  your 

name  J"    "My  name  is ,  ai^d  I  am  the  secretary  in 

the  pubUo "  (!)-  "AH  right,"  said  the. policeman, 

and  both  men  took  opposste  directions. 

Two  bystanders  who  witnessed  this  incidecnt  began 
to  ai^e  as  to  what  would  have  happened  had  the  Amer- 
ican genttonan  been  a  Filipino.  One  of  them  said  that 
if  the  man  were  a  Filipino  and  had  argued  with  the 
officer  of  the  law  in  that  way,  he  would  hav^  received  a 
good  knock  on  his  head.  The  other  said  that  he  was 
satisfied,  with. the  way  the  American  policeman  behaved 
himself.  . . 

I  then  retutned  and  walked  toward  the  central  gate 
of  the  camivbl  grounds,  and  there,  to  my  surprise,  I  saw 
the  very  same  American  gentleman  come,  and  walk 
straight  inside  without  saying  a  word  to  the  guard. 
Then  a  Filipino  came  along  and  asked  the  guard  to  be 
allowed  to  go  in,  but,  unfortunately,  according. to  the 
^uard,  only  the  stockholders  were  allowed  to  enter. 

Was  the  American,  gentleman  a  stockholder?,  He 
alone  knows.  — Adolfo  Scheerer. 


5X2  TYPES  OP  PBOSB  NABBATIVES 

W*    Xbe  Tale,  of  Actual  Adventure 

Tal08  of  actual  ttdventufe  differ  fw>m  the  other  true 
narratives  in  the  fact  of  the  rifeceaskry  presence  of  an 
exciting  occurrence.  Danger  lit  hand  and  overcome  is 
the  keynote  of  the  action.  The  ha'ppening  may  be 
slight  or  tremendous,  or  serious  or  humorous;  but  in 
every  case  it  acquil-es  a  certain  amount  of  dignity  from 
the  possible  disaster. 

The  narration  is  usually  in  the  first  periaon,  though 
not  necessarily.  -In  the  "Library  of  Univergal  Ad- 
venture,-^ compiled 'fty  "Williami  Dean  Howells  and 
Thomas  Sergeant  Perry  Eighteen- years  ago,  the  larger 
number  of  the  stories  are  aut^obiogra'phic  in  form. 
This  book  is  a  quaint  comment  on  Howells 'snon-sensa- 
tionalistie  attitude  of  today,  l^hough  purporting  to  be 
true,  these  stories  arealrfioSt  lurid  iii  their  romanticism. 
They  present  inan  in  the  familiar  iBtruggle  with  un- 
timely death,  led  thither  by  Various  motives  and  acci- 
dents. We  see  Pliny  the  Elder  with  insatiable  curiosity 
sailing  calmly  tot^ard  the  destructive  volcano ;  we  see 
the  lonely  scientist  Audubon  on  his  Western  trip  in 
early  America  Weighing'  his  chance  of  life  against  his 
watch,  that  is  tfoveted  by  a  Kirurderous  hag  and  her 
two  drunken  sons;  'i^'e  see  the  runaway  slave  Frederick 
Douglass, 'attempting  to  :i^ip  aWiig  the  very  precarious 
underground  railToad  to- safety;  of •  ectarse,  there  is 
mutiny  at  sea,  tod  shipwreck  on  utiknbwn.  shores.  In- 
deed, here  we  flniiall  tlie  despised  paraphernalia  of 
blood-curdling  romance,  true,  with  Mr.  Howells 's  name 
signed  on  the  package.* 


*  In  the  interest  of  the  unusual  I  can  not  refrain  here  from 
personal  reference.    As  I  sit  writing  this  notice  of  Pliny  and 


PARTICULAR  ACCJOTJt^TS  513 

Obviously  such  storie$  are  written  to  climaxes, 
though  any  manifest  straining  for  emphasis  in  a  true 
narrative  is  resented  by  the  reader.  All  the  skill  you 
have  got  from  your  former  attempts  to  write  realisti- 
cally blight  to  help  you  here.  You  should  put  in 
enough  minutiae  to  convince,  btit  omit  enough  to  be 
interesting.  The  general  effect  of  your  style  should 
be  that  of  directiieds  and  swiftness.  "Whatever  power 
of  psychological  analysis  you  have,  should  come  to  your 
aid,  but  it  should  appear  Only  in  keen  and  brief  flashes 
as  you  hurry  along  with  the  events.  Descriptive  touches 
of  objective  nature  may  b6  used  for  emphasis  in  har- 
mony or  contrast,  especially  at  the  end  or  the  begiji- 
niiig  of  the  adventure,  though  these  are  a  somewhat 
trite  device.  Whatever  else  you  do,  try  to  -W^rite  simply 
and  naturally.  Do  not  exaggerate.  You  will  be  judged 
chiefly  on  your  tone  of  veracity. 

There  is  d  large  todintereStiiigiS eld  here  for  the 
amateur  writer!  This  type  of  story  allies  itself  with  the 
probable  adventure,  and  in  fact  is  generally  lost  therein. 
Thd  successful,  authors  of  boys'  books , for  the  most 
part  make  lise  of  the  coalescence.  Boys  at  a  certain 
age  are  extremely  exacting,  and  when  their  Entertain- 
ers have  to  relate  their  stories  orally  as  well  as  pen 
them^  they  are  often  as  solicitous  to  find  authority  .ft)r 

their 'fictions  as*  Were  Macpherson  arid  Chattert'on. 

.  •• ;   .  -s..  ••   f  ••     .    ■* '       ;         ..•:.,.•:'•.;      ■■  •  •!.•     '  ;.■■  ■ 

old  yeffivioa, .  my  hoiiise  eontiniies,.  being  blia]09t  evstj/iem 
minutes  by  one  of  the.  most  prolonged  series  of  earthquakes 
known  to  sciencfe,  according  to  the  report  of  our  famous  ob- 
servatory chief ^  the  Jesuit,  Father  Joee  Algne.  TM  VQleano, 
fifty  miles  from  Manila,  is  now  in  violent  eruption,  January  29. 
Tb^  micrdseismographs  by  9:15  last  night  had  already  recorded 
one  hnndriBd  and-  sTeventy-two  shocks  in  ifve  minutes  less  thari 
tiventy-four  hours,  and  the  shaking  still  goes  on,  while  a  party* 


514      \         TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NARRATIVES 

^  The  Bear-Hunt 

(Hie  adventure  here  narrated  is  one  that  happened  to  Tol- 
stoy ■  himself  in  1858.  More  than  twenty  years  later  he  gave 
up  hunting  on  humanitarian  grounds.) 

We  were  out  on  a  bear-hunting  expedition.  My 
comrade  had  shot  at  a  bear,  but  only  gave  him  a  flesh 
wound.  There  were  traces  of  blood  on  the  snow,  but 
the  bear  had  got  away. 

We  all  collected  in  a  group  in  the  forest  to  decide 
whether  we  ought  to  go  after  the.  bear  at  once  or  wait 
two  or  three  days  till  he  should  settle  down  again.  We 
asked  the.  peasant  bear-drivers  whether  it  would  be 
possible  to  get  round  the  bear  that  day. 

**No.  It's  impossible,''  said  an  old  bear-driver. 
'*You  must  let  the  bear  quiet  down.  In  five  days'  time 
it  will  be  possible  to  surround  him ;  but  if  you  followed 
him  now,  you  would  only  frighten  him  away  and  he 
would  not  settle  down." 

But  a  young  bear-driver  bega^  disputing  with  the 
old.  man,  saying  that  it  was  quite  possible  to  get  roimd 
the  bear  now. 

'* On  such  snow  as  this,"  said  he;,  ''he  won't  go  far, 
for  he  is  a  fat  bear.  He  will  settle  down  before  evening; 
or,  if  not,  I  can  overtake  him  on  snow-shoes/' 

The  comrade  I  was  with  was  against  following  up 
the  bear,  and  advised  waiting.    But  I  said: 

''We  need  not  argue.  You  do  as  yQU  like,. but  I  will 
follow  up  the  track  with  Damian.  If  we  get  round  the 
bear,  all  rights  If  not,  we  lose  nothing.  It  is  dtill  early, 
and  there  is  nothing  else  for  us  to  do  to-day." 

The  oliiers  went  back  to.  the  sledges  and  returned  to 

of  scientists  from  the  government  bureau  is  preparing  to  visit 
the  spot.     Th^re  should  surely  be  material  for  a  story  in  that 


PABTICTJLAB  ACCOUNTS  61^ 

the  villfiige.    .Damiajs,  imd  I  took  some  bread,  and  re- 
mained behind  in  the  forest. 

When  they  had  all  left  us»  Damian  and  I  exaoiined 
our  guns^  and  after  tuelpng  the  skirts  pf  our  warm  coats 
into  our  belts,  we  started  off,  follojwing  the  bead's  tracks* 
The  wea,ther  w,slh  fine,  frosty  and  calm;  but  it  w^s 
hard  woo-ksnow-isfhoeing,  The  snow  wasf  deep  and  soft; 
it  had  not  oaked  togethi^.at  all  in  the  forest,  and  fresh 
snow  had  fallen  the  day  before,  so  that  our  snow*shoe3 
sank  six  inches  (jieep  in  the  sujow,  and  9omel4me|Bi  more. 
The  bear^S/ tracks  Wjsre  visible,  from  a  dis^tance,  ^nd 
we  could, see  l^c^w  h^  hf^^.be^  going;  sometimes  sinking 
in  up  to  his  belly  luad  ploughpig  up  the. snow  as  he 
went.  At  first,  while  under  large  trees,  we  kept  in  siglpLt^ 
of  his. track;  but  when  it  turned  into  a  thicket  of  spall 
firs, ,  Dam4an  stopped*. 

'*We  must  leave  ttve  trail  noiw,"  said  he.  **He  has 
probably  settled  somewhere  here.  You  can  see  by  the 
snaw  ;that  he  l^as  been  squatting  down.  Let  .us  leave  the 
trac^  and.  go  roujad.;  but.  we  nrapt  go.  quietly.  Don't 
shout  or  cough,  or  we  shall  frighten  hipn  a^vay." 

leaving  tkcitria^,  itherefoue,  w^.  tumcKi  Qflf  tcy-the 
left.  Bu1j;whei;i  he  had:gon^  about  flvie  hui^Ted  ya^rds, 
there  were  tke,  bear's  traces  again*  right  .before  usv  We 
followed  tfiem  and  they,  brought  us  out  ontO;  the  road; 
There  we  stopped,  ex^miijiing  the.rpad  to,  see  which  way. 
the  bear  had  gone.  Here  and  there  in  tl?.e  snow  were 
printfii  of.  th^  bear's  paw,  claws  and  all,  and  here  and 
there  the  marks  of' a.  peasant's  bark  shoes. .  The  bear 
had. evidently  gone  towards  the  village. 
As  we  followed  the. road,  Damian  said:  ; 
**It's  no  u^e  watching  the  road  now.    We  shall  see. 


816  TYPES  OT  PltOSE  NAREATIVES 

where  he  has  turned  off,  to  right  oi*  l^ft:,"by  the  marks 
in  the  soft  snow  at  the  side.  He  must  have  turned  off 
somewhere;  for  he  won't  haive  gone  on  to  the  Tillage." 

We  went  along  the  road  for  nearly  a  mile,  and  then 
saw,  Ahead  of  us,  the  bear 's  ti*aek  timing  off  the  road. 
We  examined  it.  How  strange !  It  wa^  h  bear's  track 
right  enough,  only  not  going  from  the  road  into  the 
forest,  but  from  the  fdrest  onto  the  rdad!  The  toes  were 
poiriting  towards  the  road. 

*'This  must  be  another  bear,  *^' I  said.  ' 
'  Damiian  looked  at  it  and  considered  a  while. 
•    ^''No,"  said  he.    *'It'«  the  sake  one.    Hte's  been  play- 
ing tricks,  and  walked' backwards  when  he  left  the 
road.";    •.;-.'•  ..■'..:■...•.. 

We  followed  the^ track  and  f ottud  it  really  was  so! 
The  bear  had  gone  some  ten  steps  backwards,  and  then, 
behind  a  fir  trfee,  had  turned  r6^d' aiid  gone  straight 
ahead.    Damian  i^opped  And  sdid:'        * 

'''Now,  we  are  sure  to  get  luund  himi  •  There  is  a 
ma'rsh  ahead  of  u^  and  he  ihust  have  Settled  down  there. 
Let  us  go  round  if  '  '    '   '   '"   *•   ■' 

We  began  to  make  our  'way -^oijuid  thrbufeh  a  fir 
thicket.  '  I  was  tirigd  •omt  by  tfeis  tiifl^,  'and  it  liad  be- 
come still  more  difficult' t6  get  ailiolng:  'WywJ  I"  glided  onto 
juniper  bushes  and  caught  my  snow-rfh^es^in-them,  now 
a'tiiiy  fir  tree  at>pear(Bld  bet^eeA- Itiy^  feet;  br, -from  want 
6f  practice,  my  jiijioW-slioes  slip^eiJ  off  ;''iihfed  now  I  came 
lipbh  a  stum]p  or  a'  log  Wdden  by Ule'snow.  I  was 
getting  very  tired,  and  was  drenched  with-fietspiTation: 
and  I  took  off  my  fur  cloak:  Airtd  there  "^a^-lDamian  all 
the  time,  gliding  along  a^  it  !n ' a  bbil;;^h'iS' snow-shoes 
Moving -as  if  of  their  own  aebordj  never  calehing  against 


PABTJOULAR  ACCOUNTS  gjy 

wiythiiJg,iioi!. slipping  aff*  He  levto  took  my  fur  and 
irinng  it  0v«ir.his  iptwwldeiii^  and  still  kept  u^'gtog.  me  on. 
'W^e  vent  on  foy  two  moxe  mitea,  and  eame  out  xm  tbe 
other- »id^  ^f  .the  Jftarsh* '  I  was  lagging  behind.  My 
snow-shoes  kept  slipping  off,  aBd  n^  feet  stui?»bled. 
Suddenly  Dainiap,  who  wa$  ahead  of  me,  stopped  and 
waved  his  arm.  When  J  a*me  up  to  hiw,  he  bent  down, 
pointingi  with  his  hand  and  whispered; 

*'Do  ypu  aee  the  magpie  chatteriQg  above  that  under- 
growth 1  It  scents  the,  bear  tvfm  aftir.  That  is  where  he 
fliust  be."  , 

We  turned  o&  and  went  on  for  more  than  another 
half-mile,*  and  p»eswtjy  :we  oame  4Mito  the,  old  tvmk 
again>  We  had,  therefore,;  been  ri^t  round  the  bear, 
who  was  now  within  the  track  we  had  left.  We  :Stoppedy 
and,  I  ^took  off:Hiy  :eap  and  loosened  aJl  my  clotbep>  I 
wa3  as  hot  a^  in  a  ateam  bath,  and  as  wet  as  a  d^^Qwned 
rat. .  Damian,  too^  was  flushed,  and  wiped  his  face  with 
his  sleeve*   . 

*'Well,  sir,''  he  said,  *fwe  have  done  our:  job,  .and 
now  we  m|i3t  hitve  a  rest/'. 

Thje  evening  gl^w  already  shewed  red  through  the 
forest.  We  , took  off  pur  aaowHrtioes  and  sat  down  on 
tliem,  andget  aoni^  bread  and  salt  out  of  our  bags.  Firsit 
I  ate  some  snow,  and  them  some  bread ;  and  the  bread 
tasted). so  good  that  I  thought  I  had  never  in  my  life 
Ix^d  any  lik^  it  before.  We.  sat  there  resting  until  it 
began  to  grow  di^sk,  and  then  I  asked  Damian  if  it.  was 
far  to  the  village.  ; 

'' Y^"  he  jsaid,  ''it  mu^  be  above  eight  miles.  We 
w'iU  go  on  Inhere  tonight,  but  now  we  mast  rest..  Put  on 
yoxUR  fur  coat,  sir,  or  you'lLbe  catching  .col<J.''      . 


S18  TYPES  OP  PROSB  NAKRATIVES 

Damian  flattened  dowi  the  sliow,  and  breaking  oi! 
some  fir  branches  made  a  bed  of  them:  We  lay  down 
6ide  by  side,  resting  our  heads  on  our  armis.  I  do  not 
remember  how  I  fell  asjleep.  Two  hours  later  I  woke  up, 
hearing  something  era^k. 

I  had  slept  so  soundly  that  I  did  not  know  where  I 
was.  I  looked  around  me.  How  wonderful  .^  I  was  in 
some  sort  of  a  hall,  all  glittering  and  white  with  gleam- 
ing pillars,  and  when  I  looked  up  I  saw,  through  delicate 
white  tracery,  a  vault,  raven  black  and  studded  with 
coloured  lights.  After  a  good  look  I  remembered  that 
we  were  in  the  forest  and  that  what  I  took  for  a  hall  and 
pillars  were  trees  covered  With  snow*  aiid  hoar-frost,  and 
the  coloured  lights  were  stars  twinklihg  between  the 
branches. 

Hoar-frost ' had  settled  in  the  night;  all  the  twigs 
were  thick  with  it,  Damian  was  oovc^red  \dth  it,  it  was 
on  my  fur  coat,  and  it  dropped  down  from  the  trees. 
I  woke  Damian,  and  we  put  on^  our  snow-shoes  and 
started.  It  was  very  quiet  in  the  forest.  No  sound  was 
heard  but  that  of  our  snow-sKoes  pushing  through  the 
soft  snow,  except  when  now  andi  then  a  tree,  cracked  by 
the  frost,  made  the  forest  resound.  Only  once  we  heard 
the  sound  of  a  living  creature.  Something  rustled  close 
to  us  and  then  rushed  away.  I  felt  sure  it  was  the  bear, 
but  whfen  we  went  to  the  spot  whence  the  sound  had 
come  We  found  the  footmarks  of  hares,  and  saw  several 
young  aspen  trees  with  their  bark  giiawed.  We  had 
startled  some  hares  while  they  were  feeding. 

We  came  out  on  the  road  and  followed  it,  dra^ng 
our  snow-shoes  behind  us.  It  was  easy  walking  now. 
Our  snow-shoes  clattered  as  they  slid' behind  us  from 


side  to  side  oi  the  hard-troddeii  road;  The  snow  creaked 
under  our  boots,  and  the  coM  hoar-frost  settled  on  6uf 
{&(iei  like  down.  Seefn  th-r<ytigh  the  1)raa<7hes,  the"  stars 
iseemed  to  be  nmniiig  to  meet  tis;  now  twiifcling,  now 
vanishing,  as  if  thd  Whole  «&y:  were  on  the  niove* 

i  found  tny  comrade  -si4et>ixig,*  buit  Woke- him  Up  and 
related  how  we  had  got  round  the  beftr:^  After  tell^g 
onr  peasant  host  to  collect*  beaters  f 61*  thO' morning,  we 
had  Supper  and  lay  down  t(J  ^eepi  -  ^    *    '         >  .  ;  , 

I  was  so  tired  that  I  could  hitve  rfet)t  on' till  midday 
if  ffiy;  comrade  had  nbt  roiised  me.  I  jtim'ped'ti^  and 
saw  that  he  was  already  ^dreisfeed  and- busy  dbinig:  some* 
thing  to  his  gun. 

^^hereifeDamianr' siafid  I.*        -    ''    '  '  r 

**In  the  for«it  long  ago.  Her  has  alrelirdy  befen  cnref 
the  tracks  you  ma!de,  and  beetf  ba(5k«  here,  arid  now  he 
has  gone  to  look  after  the  be&ters,  '*     -  . .  : : : 

I  washed  and  dressed  and  kmdef}  my  gvcds^mnd  ^en 
we  got  intoa  sledge  and  started;       '  '    l^ft  "    ^     ' 

The  sharp  frori;.  skill  cbntinUedi  It^wati^  quiet  and 
thesun  ©ould  not  be  seeii.  f  h^ei-e  was  sa  thii«k  mist  dbove 
us  and  hoar-fr6st  still  eover«d  evetytiiigv    ^  /» ■'  i 

After  driving  about  two  miles  along  the  road^  as  we 
eamei  near  the  forest,  W' saw  ^  a'  ^Jmxd:  oiwmk^  Taibing 
from  A  holiow,  and  prfesently  reached  a- grcfap  of' peas* 
ants,  both  men  arid  wotnen,  armeHT 'wi-tti  budgeb.     ' 

"We  got  out  and  W^ent  tip  to  them.  The'  men  "^at 
roasting  potatoes  and' larighing  arid '  talkm^g  witk^  4fh^ 
women."  1    •  r-  '  '    '  ' 

Damian  'was  1^^  there;  too,-  and  when  We  ai^rired  the 
peoi>lfe  got  up  and  Damian'led  them  to  platee^them  in  the 
circfe  we  hAd  mtide  the  ddy  liefoi*e.''  They^  wehf-feiong 


520  TYPBS  OF  PB08E  NA*BATIVES 

in  single  Sh^  nu^  and  wom^t^  thirty  in  all.  The  snow 
was  30  d«e$>  that  we  eouXd  only  fioe  them  from  their 
waists  Kipwai^da.  Thej  t^iraaed  i»to  the  forest  and  my 
friend  and  X  followed  in  their  traelc. 

Though  they  had  troddea  a  path,  walking  was 
difficult ;  }>mti  on  thje  other  hand,  it  was  impossible  to 
fall;  it  was  like  walking  between  two  walls  of  snow. 

We  went  on  in  this  way  for  nearly  half  a  mile,  when 
all  at  once  we  saw  Damian  eoixiang  from  another  direc- 
tion-r-ronning  towards  "us  on  his  snow-shoes  and  beckon- 
ing us  to  join  him.  We  went  towards  him  and  he  showed 
ns  where  to  stand.  X  took  my  place  and  looked  round 
me. 

To  my  left  were  tall  fir  :tre6s,  between  the  trunks  of 
which  X  could  see  a,  good  way^and,  like  a  Uack  patch 
just  visible. behind  the  treed,  X  could  see  a  beater.  In 
front  of  me  was  a  thicket  of  youxig^  firs  about  as  high 
as. a  man,  their  brap^hea  weighed  down  and  stuck  to- 
gether with  snow.  Throng  this  copse  raox  a  path  thickly 
covered  with  snow,  and  leading  straight  up  to  where  I 
stood.  The  thicket  atretched  away  to  the  right  of  me  and 
ended  in  a  small  glade  where  I  eould  see  Damian  placing 
my  comrade. 

I  ejcamined  both  miy  guns  and  considered  where  I  had 
better  stand.    Thnee  steps  behind  me  was  a  tall  fir. 

''That's  where  111  stand,''  thought  I,  ''and  then  I 
ean  lean  my  second  gun  against  the  tree;"  and  I  moved 
towards  the  tree,<  sinking  up  to  my  knees  in  the  snow  at 
each  step.  I  trod  the  snow  down,  and  made  a  clearance 
about  a  iyard  squstre  to  stand  on.  One  gun  I  kept  in  my 
hand;  the  Qth^er^  re)s4y,  pocked,  I  placed  leaning  up 
against  the  tree..    Then  I  imsheathed  and  replaced  my 


PARTICULAR  ACCOUNTS  5®1 

dagger,  to  make  stir^  that*I  eouM  Siaw  it  edsilj  in  cftse 
of  needi 

Just  as.  I  had  finished  these  prepaimtkms,  I  heard 
Damian  shouting  in  the  forest:  ,  i 

'^He^«up!    He'bupJ"  : 

And  as  soon  as  Z>amian  ledioTited;  the  peiusaivts  roimd 
the  circle  all  replied  in  their  different  voices. 

'"^Dp,  up,  np !    Ou  !♦  Oil !  Ou !  '*  shouted  the  m^n. 

*  *  Ay !  Ay !  Ay ! "  screamed  the  womm  in  high  pitcTied 
tone«.  .         r 

The  bear  was  lz«9ide  the  eirele,  and  as  Damian  Atonfi^ 
him  on,  the  people  IbU  i-ound  kept  shouting.  Only  my 
friend  and  I  stood  silent  and  motionless,  Traiting  for  the 
bear  to  come  tei#ards  us.  A«  I  stbod  gazing  and  Mliten«- 
in^,  my  heart  ibeat  violently.  I  tretnbled,  holding  my 
giin  fast.  •  .  •  .-    .       .'   ••  .     .■■:■.  .». 

"Now,  now,"  I  thought.  "He  will  come  suddenl$^. 
I  shall  aim,  Are,  and  he  will  dro^-^" 

Suddenly,  to  ihy  left^  but  at  a  distance,  I  heard  some- 
thing falling  on  tiae  snow.  I  looked  between  the  tall  fir 
trees,  and,  some  fifty  paces  off,  behind  the  tnlnks,  saw 
something!  big  and  black.  I  took  aim  and  waited;  think- 
ing: 

"Won't  he  come  any  nearer f  ' 

As  I  waited  I  saw  him  move  his  ears^  turn  and  go 
back)  and  tiaen  i  eanght  a  glimpse  of  the  Whole  <»f  him 
in  profile.  He  was  an  immense  brute.  In  my  excite*- 
ment  I  fired  and  heard  my  buUetgo  "flop"  against  k 
tree.  Peering  throu^  the  smoke  I  saw  my  bear  scamper- 
ing, back  into  the  circle  and  disappearing  among  the 
trees; 

"Weil,^'  thought  I,    "My  chance  is  lo^t.    He  won^t 


5£2  TYPES  OF  PK08E  iNABEATIVES 

<M>me  baek  ta  me;  JBitber  m^  <{Qidra49  will  shoot  ^^  ^^ 
he  will  escape  through  the  line  of  beaters.  In  any  case 
he  won/'t  give  me  ancxther  chance." 

I  reloaded  my  gun,  however,  an<i  again  stood  listen- 
ing. The  peasants  were  shouting- all  round,  but  to  the 
rights  not  far  f rem  :where  any  conurade  stood,  I  heard  a 
woman  screaming  in  a  fresiZiiBd  voice ; 

**Here  heisli.  Here  he^  is  I  Come  here,  come  here! 
OhIOh!  AylAyJ'' 

Evidently  she  could  see  the  bear,  I  had  given  up  ex- 
pecting him.and  was  looking  to  the  Iright  at  my  comrade. 
All  at  once  I  saw.  Damiaa  with  a  8tietp;in  his  hand,  and 
without  his  snownsdboes^  niimiog  aJson^  <k  footpath  tow^ards 
my  friend.  He  eromsbedj  doiwn  besidi^  him,  pointing  his 
stick  as  :if  aaixxing  at  .sonlethingy  smd,  then  I  saw  my  friend 
raise  his  gun  and  aim  in  the  same  direction.  Crack! 
He  fired     :•••:..  :•.  :     :     '.  • 

''There,''  thought  I,  '/he- has  kiUed  him.*.' 

But  I.  saw  that  my.  oomrail^  did  not  ran  towards  the 
bear.  Evidently  hb  Ihad  miteed/bim,  or  the  shot  had  not 
taken  full  effect.       .     •    : 

.  *'The  bear  wiU  get  away;."  .Uliiought  '.'He  will  go 
back,  but  he  won't  come  a  second  time  towards  me.  But 
what  is  that?"  ..  ..   -       . 

:  Something,  was  coming,  towards  me :  like  a  whirlwind, 
snotrting  as  it  came,  an4  I  isaw  the  snow  flying  up  quite 
;near  me.  Iglancedstvaight. before. me,  and  there  was 
the  .bear,  ruishing  along  tihe  path  thibugh  the  thicket 
right  at  me,M^videntiy  beside  hiiiusdi  with  fear.  He  was 
hardly  half  a:  dozen  paces  ;offy  aiidl  could  see  the  whole 
of  him — ^his  black  chest  and  enormous  head  with  a  red- 
dinii  patch.  Thiere  be  was,  blundering  straight  at  me  and 


FABTJOULAB  ACCOUNTS  623 

8el^tt^riQg:tl»e  smm  about  aa  Ixe  came,  I  eould  see  by  his 
eyes  that  h&  d^  not  setO  m^^  hvA,  mad  with  fear,  was 
rushing  blindly  along)  and  his.  path  led  him  straight  at 
the  iQree  undar  wbieli' J  iwas  standing.  J  raised  my  gun 
and  filled.  Hq  was  jal^osib  upon  me  now^.  aad  I  saw  that 
I  had  missed.  My  bullet  had  gone  past  him,  and  he  did 
pot. even  hear  me  &re,  buti  s|4}l  Ga,me  headlopg  towards 
me.  I  lowered  my  gui^  and  '&V0d  iig(iiii>  almost  touching 
his  hoad. .  Graekl    I  had  hit  but  not  killed  him. 

He  araiaed  hishe^djaod,  laying  his  ears  back,  oame  at 
n^e,  showing  his  teeth.        , 

I  snatched  at  my  other;  giin,  but  almost  before  I  had 
touQhed  it  he  had  flqwn  ali  im  and,  knoc^ng  me  over 
into  the  snow,  had  passed,  right  over  me. 

v^Tbank  goodness,  he  has  left  me,"  thought  I. 

I  tried  to  rij9e,  but  3omcthi|]^  prei^ed  me  dpwp  and 
pirev^ited  my.  getting  up..  The  bear's  rmk  had  carried 
him  past  me,  but  he  had  turned  back  and  had  fallen  on 
me  with  the  whole  weight  oi£  his  body.  I  felt  .something 
heavy  weighing  me  .down  and  something  warm  above  my 
tm0fWad.l  realised  thait  he  was  drawing  my  whole  fa^jie 
into  his  .ptxQtuth^  My:  nose  was  already  i^  it,  and  I  felt 
the  heat  of  dt  and  smelt  his  blood.  He  was  prea^ixig  my 
shouldeirs  down  with  his  paws  so  that  I  eonld  not  moye; 
all  I  could  dO;  was  tO'  draw  jny.  head  down  towards  my 
chest,  away  from  his  mouth,  trying  to  free  my  ;noae  and 
eyes,  while  he  tried  to  get. his  teeth  into  them.  Then  I 
felt  that  he  had  seized  my  forehead  just  under  the  hair 
with  the  teeth  of  his  lower  jaw  and  the  flesh  below  my 
eyes  with  his  upper  jaw,  and  was  closing  his  teeth.  It 
was  as  if  my  face  were  being  cut  with  knives.  I  strug- 
gled to  get  aiway^  while. he  made  haste  to  close  Us  jaws, 


624  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NARKATIVES 

like  a  dog  gnawibg.  I  managed  to  twiat  my  £aoe  away, 
but  he  began  drawing  it  again  into  bis  mouth. 

*'Now/'  thought  I,  "my  end  has  oome!'* 

Then  I  felt  the  weight  lifted  knd,  looking  up,  I  saw 
that  he  was  no  longer  there.  He  had  jumped  o&  me  and 
run  away. 

When  my  comrade  and  Damian  had  seen  the  bear 
knock  me  down  and  begin  worrying  me,  ikhey  rushed  to 
the  rescue.  My  comrade,  in  his  haste,  blundered  and, 
instead  ol  following  the  troddfen  path,  ran  into  the  deep 
snow  and  fell  down.  While  he  was  stru^Iii^  out  of  the 
sno^  the  bear  wais  gnawing  at  me. .  BUt  Damiaii,  just 
as  he  was,  without  a  gun  and  with  only  a  stick  in  his 
hand,  rushed  along  the  path  Shouting  t 

'*He's  eating  the  m^KSteri    He's  eating  the  mafiter !'' 

And,  as  he  ran,  he  called  to  the  bear: 

**Oh,  you  idiot!'  What  are  yon  doing?  Leave  off! 
lieaVe  off!'' 

The  bear  obeyed  him  a^,  leating  me,  ran  away. 
When  I  rose  there  was  as  much  blood  on  tiie  fioiow  as  if  a 
sheep  had  been  killed,  and  the  flesh  liimg  in  ragi»  above 
my  €fyes,  though  in  my  excitement  I  felt  no  pain. 

My  comrade  had  come  tip  by  this  timej  and  the  other 
people  collected  round  j  they  loolced  at  my  wolmd  and 
put  snow  on  it.  But  I,  forgetting  about  my  wounds^ 
only  askedr 

''  Where 's  th^  bear  ?   Which  way  has  he  gone  ? ' ' 

Suddenly  I  heard : 

'^Hereheis!'  Here  he  is!" 

And  we  saw  the  bear  again  runming  at  us.  We  «ei«c(l 
our  guns,  but-  before  any  one  had  time  to  fire  he  had  run 

'\    He  had  ^own  ferocious  axid  wanted  to  gnaw  me 


PABTICULAB  ACCOUNTS  525 

ag^n,ibut,  seieing  so  Biany  people,  he  toK)k' fright.  We 
aaw  by  his^  tr*Qk;  that  his.  head  was  bleedings  ai^d  we 
wanted  to  follow  him  up,  but,  aa  my  wounds  bad  become 
very  pt^Uolo^  we  went,,  instead,  to  the  town  to  ^^  a 
doctor. 

The  doctor  stitched  up  my  wounds  with  silk  and  they 
so(W  began  to  heal.  . 

A  month  later  we  went  to  hunt  that  bear  again,  but; 
I  did  Aob  get  a  d^ance  of  fii^i^ijig  him.  H^  would  not 
GCdpqjB  o\it  oi  the  4?ircle,  but.  went  round  and  rounds  growl- 
ipg  in  a  terrible  voice. 

Damian  Kited  him.  The  .bear's  lower  jaw.  bad 
been  broken  and.  one  of  bus  teeth  knocked  out  by  my 
bullet.  H«  was  a  huge  creattu*e  and  had  splendid  black 
fur.     . 

•  ^  I  hfi»d  him  stuJSed  and  be  now  lies  in  my  room.  The 
wounds  on  my  forehead  healed  up.sQ  that  tb^  sears  can 
sqaarcely  be^  seen.    :  — ^Leo  .11.  Tolstoy. 

^'Twebty-tliTec  Tales  from  Tolstoy.''    (Oxforfl.)    Written  about 

Saladin  and  I  Fight  an  Alupong 

j^  I  remei^ber,  it  was.  a  windy  aftemeon  in  April, 
1906,  that  I  was  nearly  bitten  by  an  alupong,  a  very 
px)i^<mous  sn^,  when  I  .w$is  out  on  our  farm  during 
harveilt.  The  day  was.  beginmng  to  cool.  The  men  and 
women  were  busy  cleanijig  the  rice  that  had  beeiji 
thwshed  the  night  before. . 

I  went  out  with  my ,  dog, .  SaladfQ,  to  play  with  the 
other  boy  cm  the  farm.  While  we  were  rupning  and 
jumping  on  the  grjBat,  long  pile  of  hay  I  heard  my  dog, 
barking.     I  quickly  ran  to  see  what  was  the  matter. . 


586  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

Saladin  was  leaping  and  running  a:s  he  barked.  He  was 
after  a  big  snake,  which  from  time  to  tim«  'stopped  and 
raised  its  crested  head  tor  bite. 

I  was  very  much  excited.  I  shouted  tO  eficourage  my 
dog.  I  took  a  good-sized  lump  of  dried  earth  and  threw 
it  with  all  my  might  kt  the  snake.  Then  I  cried  to  the 
boys,  ^'A  snake,  a  snake!  Come,  here  is  ft  big  snake! 
Look!" 

All  the  boys  came,  but  when  they  reached  the  place 
the  poisonous  animal  was  gone.  Saladin  was  standing 
on  his  hind  legs  and  was  barking  as  he  scratched  the  side 
of  an  ant  hill.  I  went  near  the  dog.  I  saw  what  was 
the  matter.  Then  I  turned  to  the  boys  and  said,  **It  is 
gone  into  this  hole.    Let  us  make  it  come  out.  '* 

I  pulled  up  one  of  the  poles  of  the  fence  surrounding 
the  place  where  the  rice  was  being  cleaned,  and  with  it  I 
hastened  back  to  the  ant  hill.  Then  I  pushed  this 
pointed  pole,  about  one  and  one-half  inches  in  diameter 
and  four  feet  in  length,  into  the  hole.  The  other  boys 
were  far  from  me,  but  my  dog  was  alert  near  the  place. 
I  heard  the  snake  spit  and  hiss  inside.  Then  I  suddenly 
pulled  away  the  pole.  When  I  saw  the  animal  coming 
out  quickly,  I  speedily  turned  to  run,  but  I  missed  my 
first  step  and  fell  to  the  ground. 

You  may  fancy  how  greatly  I  was  frightened.  Dur- 
ing that  short,  critical  moment  I  expected  the  deadly 
bite,  but  to  my  great  relief  I  had  time  to  stand  up  with- 
out being  bitten.  I  looked  back  and  skW  How  my  dog 
had  saved  Hiy  life.  He  was  fitting  witt  th6  snake.  In 
that  very  place  the  two  killed  each  othet-,  after  a  short 
time.  — Cecilio  R.  Esquivel. 


F^ARTlOULAR  ACCOtTNfS  527 

I.JQtot  Twt>  iBeaiaiifeB  \ 

One  afternooh  my  mothet  beat  'me  for  isome  cause 
which  1  haTe  forgotten.  After  I  had  wiped  my  tears  I 
went  into  onr  orchard  just  aero&s  the  road.  It  was  very 
nice  to  stay  under  the  orange  and  cocoa  trees  because  of 
the  sweet  breeife  whi^h  was  coining-  froin  the  ri^veT  at  the 
end  of  the  orchard; 

As  I  waa  rambling  about  I  CAme  to  the  river  bank, 
which  is  about  thirty  feet  high.  "When  I  looked  down  I 
saw  two  wild  tomato  plants  full  of  red  fruit.  '*Ah!"  I 
exclaimed,  **what  good  tomato  plants.  I  will  take  the 
fruit  honie  to  appease  mother's  anger.''  Accordingly  I 
began  to  look  for  a  path  down-  to  th^  water.  ■  The  path 
which  I  found  waft  ytry  steeps  and  so  it  W-aSi  hard  for  me 
to  go  down.  When  I  l^eacb^d  the  edge  of  the  water  I 
saw  k  man  (Etching  insects  td  tfse  for  baiti.      .  i  i      ^ 

^  ^  Where  are  yoti  going,  my  lad  f  "  hfe  said.      '    • 

**I  am  going  to  gef^thefhrit  of  those  tW6^  tomato 
plants;  Can't  you  see  them?"  I  aiSkted,  poihtddg  to' the 
plants.  •  !      >  ■■ 

**I  tried  to  get  those  this  Aoming,  butl  could  not." 

** Anyhow,  I  will  try,''  I  continued,  i        ;.  :       '. 

So  I  began' to  dimb  the  steep  slope  witH-both  hands 
and  feet.  While  I  was  cliinbiiig  the  man  ■  said,  ^'liook 
out.  If  you  fall,  •  ydii  will'  BMT^ly  rolt  into  th^'  wiater. ' ' 
My  desire  to  AppeaSe  my  ttfxythfer 's  anger  wad  so  great 
that '  I  paid  no  heed  to  •^'hat  h^'  Isaid.  •  After:  struggling 
for  a  f^w  niinutes  I^  caught  hold  of  a  long  root  of  the 
madi^e  cacao  tree,  whieh  was'gtdwing  on  the  bank.  With 
the  help  of  this  aiad  several  <:>thei*s<l!  reached  the  place 
whe!re  the  tomatoes  tirere.  Wh^n  I  had'  filled  one  of  my 
pOdKets  =<riththe  red 'fruits  the  rbot1x>  which  I  was  hold- 


5:^  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

ing  broke  in  two  and  dofWh  I  rolled,  with  my  head  fore- 
most, into  the  water.  I  should  have  drowned  had  not 
the  nMUi  saved  me.  When  I  was  carried  on  Land  I  found 
out;  that  my  baek  was  badly  hurt.  I  had  reeoiYed  two 
wounds,  one  orer  the  left  eyebrow  and  one  in  the  fore- 
heiad,  from  some  thorns.  The  seans  ean  be  seen  to  this 
day.  When  I  went  home  my  mother  aished  me  why  I 
had  my  elothea  wet.  I  told  her  the  whole  story,  but  when 
she  saw  my  n^ounds  she  beeame  so  angry  that  she  beat 
me  again.  — ^Faeundo  Es<juivel. 

Th»  FaU  of  Juan 

One  day  while  Juan»  Pedro  and  I  were  in  the  church 
tower  looking  M  a  proeession,  we*  saw  a  nest  hanging 
£rom  the  oog&n  roof.  For  a  while  i^  one  of  us  seemed 
to  want  it,  but  soon  Juaaft  said,  ''That  is  mine/'  Then 
Pedro  approached  hlin,  aiying,  *'I  will  have  it/'  and  he 
pushed  Juan  away.  Aa  I  wafi  VBfy  much  interested  in 
the  beautiful  nesjb,  I  went  near  them  and  said,  '''The  first 
one  that  can  get  it  shall  have  it.''  So  I  jumped  and 
grabbed'  it  iTben  Pedro  said^  "l4et  u»  divide  the  eggs 
so  that  each  of  us  will  have  a  ^are/' 

' '  No,  no, "  I  cri^d, ' '  I  must  have  it  all " 
For  a  l(mg  time  the  qnarrel  grew  worse  and  worse 
until  it  finally  beoame  a  fight.  Th^n  a  sad  thing  oc- 
curred. Pedro  rushed  toward  me  a^d  snatehed  at  the 
nest,  but  I  pu^diad  him.  away.  Then  Juan  came  with  the 
same  intention*  Seeing  that  I  wa«  in  danger,  I  laid  the 
nest  .on  the  floodr  And  grasped  Juan  by  the  n^ck.  As  he 
tried;  to  throw  me,  I  pushed  him  out  of  the  door.  Down, 
down  he  went  as  fast  ajs  an  arrow,  ^ow  all  of  :us  tiiought 
ti4X  he  would  be  dashed  to  pieoeS)  b|ut.wb^n»  by  scram- 


PAETICDLAB  ACCOUNTS  S29 

bling  Bzul  sliding,  we  At  last  reaobed  the  bottom  of  th« 
longy  dark,  winding  stai^is^  we  found  him  swelltug  with 
pride  attd  boasting  of  himself  m  a  brave  boy. 

-»-Gregori6  Farrales. 

'  A  Kanrow  Escape  Itom  a  WUd  Cacabaja 

In  1903  I  narrowly  escaped  being  kilied  by  a  wild 
carabao.'  There  were  ma^y  of  us  pursuing  this  imiznal, 
buti  after  seeing  that  the  buffalo  was  very  fierce,  all  of 
my  companions  got  so  afraid  that  they  withdrew^  SiB€« 
I  had  the  best  horse,  I  eontinued  following  the  wild 
beast.  My  ambition  to  distinguish  myself  both  in  horse^ 
back  riding  and  in  catching  wild  cattle  was  great.  So, 
at  the  time  when  we  were  pursuing  the  animal,  1  had  in. 
mind  that  if  I  alone  could  sucoeed  in  catching  the  wild 
carabao,  it  would  surely  be  an  honor  to  me.  So  I  fol- 
lowed the  imimal  closely.  When  I  was  just  a  few  feet 
behind  it  it  suddenly  turned  back  and  fell  upon  imy 
pony.  I  also  tried  to  turn  back,  but  in  vain;  the  carabao 
overcame  us.  At  this  time  I  was  entirely  hopeless  of 
my  life.  The  sharp  horn  of  the  cruel  beast  stuck  dfe^^ly 
into  the  thighs  of  my  poor  pony.  I-  did  not  fciow  What 
to  do  then,  for  thf  cruel  beast  would  surely  pursue  m«» 
if  I  should  dismount-.  So  I  grasped  my  saddle  with  all 
my  might.  But  after  a  while  my  poor  pet  languished 
and  fell.  Then  I  did  Wj  t>^st\ttJ  getTiw^y  from  danger. 
The  carabao  would  have  pursued  me  at  once,  but  its 
horns  stuck  tight  into  the  muscles  of  my  horse,  and  con- 
sequently it  was  delayed  a  little.  Meanwhile  I  got  irito 
a  cell  of  a  big  rock,  and  exactly  at  the  very  moment  I 
squeezed  in  the  mad  buffalo  struck  the  opening  with  its 
horns.    Fortunately,  the  aperture  was  too  small  for  the 


53Q  TYPE0  or  PBOSB  ^ARBATIVES 

head  of  the  anijoaal  to  enter«  But  still  the  sharp  points 
of  its  hovm  could  resell  me  and  I, received  a  woxmd  at 
the  back  of  my  lieck.  ;liuckily,  I^hed  a  bolo  with. ma,  and 
reaching  out  bravely,  I  stabbed  the  nose  of  the  cruel 
beast.  It  surely  received  a  severe  wound.  But,  instead 
of  running  aw*a^,'th6  animal  became'  angrier  than  before 
and  butted  agaih  ^d  again  at  the  opening.:  My  eyes 
were  nearly,  struck  by  the  sharp  pointed  horns.  In  order 
to  save  myself  fr^nj,  further,  injury  I  stabbed  this  time 
one  of  the  glowing  eyes  of  thja  ibuffalo.  Blood  gushed 
out  at  me.  "Whto  the  wild  beast  felt  the  pains  of  the 
wounds  it.. began  to  move  i^way  with  regret.  After  the 
carabao  had  gone  I  bemoane>d  Ithe  death  of  my  ^favorite 
pony.  I  decided  to  take  rev;enge  upon  the  beast.  In 
order  rto  accomplish  this  I  first  went  home.  Whcm  I  told 
my  pare^its .about  the. accident  they  at  once  consented  to 
my  taking  their  gun,  So:  the .n0?;t. morning  I  set  out 
with  many  companions.  We  easily^  found  the  same  wild 
carabao.  roaming  in  the  broad  forest.  .  It  was  still  very 
mad,  for  vit  began-  to  chase  w ,  immediately,  coming 
swiltly  towards  us,  looking  sidewise.with  it^  ope  eye. 
Without  hesitation  I  let  my  bullet  go:  and  the  beast  fell 
dead-    -  •  .  .  ■/-    ■  :.    • 

.'    .  :   -rrjose  H.  Carifio. 

V.    The  Traveler's  Sketch 

A  traveler 'p  sketch  is  an  ,ordei:ly  and  extended  ac- 
count of  the  ijjifjidents  of  a  journ^y-r-Jjh^  sights,  apunds, 
experiences,  in^pyessiqns  and  coi^jlusions  of  the  writer. 
Incidents  afld  anecdote;?  may  be  given  by  the  narrator 

^'^^  first,  or.  third,  person;  b^ut>  tray.^r's  «|ketch  is 


PARTICULAR  ACCOUNTO  B31 

always  first  person.  There  may  b^  the  other  forms  in- 
cluded, together  with,  desprjptionft.  and  historical  refeiv 
ences;  but  what  makes  a  traveler's  sketch  a  traveler's 
sketch  is  the  personal  flavor.  The  question  the  reader 
always  asj^s  is,  not.  what  kind  of  city  is  Lisbon,  but 
what  impression  did.,  it  make  on  Fielding. 

There,  have  be^I^  only  a  few  great  travel  books 
wjritten.  Perhaps,  because  ike.  people,  that  are  worth 
while  are  not  gadabouts;  perhaps,  because  Qv^a,t 
only  a  few  men  are  generous  enough  or  idle  ^^^ 
enough  to  give  themselves  over  completely 
to  impressions;  surely,  because  not  every  one  who 
travels  has  the  ability  to  see  what  ought  to  be  seen  or 
to  express  hii^self  ent^rtainiipigly  after  he  has  seen  it* 
The  narrator  needs  an  63^16  made  quiet,  that  looks  into 
the  heart  of  thin^.  Hq.  needs  also  wit  and.  a  wi4d 
humapity.  If  he  stalks  his:  way  through  a  place  as  an 
Englishman  only,  or  if  he  buys  it  through  lavishly  as 
an  American,,  he  will  have  nothing  to  tell  that  we  cai?e 
to  listen  to.  The /public  is  not  won  by  a  string  of  for-» 
eign  names  merely.  A  little  trip  from  New  York  to 
Boston  would  furnish  a  SmoUet  01:  a  Sterne  with  more 
observations  tljian  a  journey  around  the  world  would 
a  duU-minded,  pedant.  George  Borrpw  could  tell  of 
distributing  pibles  in  Spain,  and  yet  give  \m  one  of  the 
best  travel  books  in  aJE^  language.  Henry  Fielding 
could  be  on  his. death  journey,  as  he. was  on  bis  voyage 
to  Lisbon,  and. well  Jsnow  it,  as  he  did,  and  yet. he 
could,  write  with  such  an  UndomitablQ.  gallantry  of 
spirit,,  such  an  irrepressible  joy  of  life,  such  an  insatir. 
ably  Quripus  eye  for  humaiiity,'  such  a  new  relish  for 
every  fresl^  face,  that  the  reader  xjpuld  easily  imagiue 


632  TYPES  OP  PBOSE  JSTAEBATtVES 

that  the  laughing,  genial,  ironi<^,  but  altogether  eom- 
passionate  and  broad-minded,  manly  fellow  had  not  a 
'Care  in  the  world. 

The  -'Voyage  and  Traraille  of  Sir  John  Mande- 
vilie*'  is  a  book  very  precious  to  the  English  language, 
if  not  to  the  history  of  faets.  It  was  intended  as  a 
road-book  to  the  Holy  Dand,  and  was  produced  as  early 
as  1356.  It  is  precious  nbt  only  because  of  the  mar- 
velQW  tales  skillfully  woven  in  as  reports  of  the  belief 
o^  various  cities — stories  which  have  been  inspirations 
to  hundreds  of  romancers^— but  because  of  the  fact  that 
it  was,  BO  far  as  we  know,  the  flirst  piece  of  English 
prose  of  any  considerable  extent  to  depart  from  the 
beaten  track  of  medieval  theology  and  philosophy, 
and  the  first  piece  of  original  pi^Se  to  rfeveal  any  per- 
sonality, to  have  any  style,  any  flavor  of  the  author. 
Altho  because  of  its  stooping  to  the  delight  that  men 
of  that  day  took  in  marvels  it  places  itself  really  in  thiJ 
class  of  imaginary  voyages,  it  yet  belongs  with  good 
travel  books  in  this  onei  essential— vivacity  and  per- 
sonal charm. 

Marco  Polo,  the  Venetian  traveler  of  the  thirteenth 
and  fourteenth  centuries,  because  of  his  irresponsibility 
in  padding  his  account  With'  marvelous  tales,  placed 
himself  with^  Mandeville  and  the  wonder  books;  but 
the  result  of  his  ** Travels^''  was  scientific  in  the  effect 
his  evidence  that  he  had  really  been  to  the  far  East 
had  upon  Columbud  and  the  earlier  navigators. 

An  interesting  bit  of  Anglo-Saxon  actual  travel 
account  is  the  story  of  Ohthere  and  Wtilfstan  inserted 
by  King  Alfred  into  his  translation  of  the  *^ History  of 
Orosiusj"  and  told  as  the  Mug  took  it  down  from  the 


PABTICtJLAR  ACdOtJNTS  533 

lips  of  these  sea-roters  themselves  sometime  during  th>e 
ninth  century. 

Sttirdy  old  Sam  Johnson  by  his  **  Journey  to  the 
Western  Isles**  added  a  substantial  volume  Ho  the  rery 
short  eight-or-ten-inch  shelf  of  great  travel  boohs; 

In  many  ways  Bayard  Taylor  was  the  ideal  traveler, 
putting  himself  into  sympathy  with  the  people  whom 
he  went  among,  wearing  their  dress,  eating  their  food, 
speaking  their  lianguage.  But  he  failed  to  produce 
great  literature,  for  some  reason  or  other— x>^rhaps  be- 
cause he  wrote  for  the  newspapers.  His  ** Views  Aioot, 
or  Europe  seen  with  Knapsack  and  Staff"  and  other 
''copy"  of  the  sort  are  interesting  reading,  however. 
Darwin's  record  of  the.  Voyage  of  the  Beagle  is  invalu- 
able to  science. 

Richard  Henry  Dana's  ''Two  Tears  fief  ore  the 
Mast"  is  an  exceflent  boys'  book,  ahd  has  a  fine  feeling 
of  adventure  about  it.  But  we  may  not  mention  the 
work  of  any  more  travel  Writers,  Stevenson,  JameS,* 
Curtis,  Stanley,  Roosevelt,  or  others  in  other  languages.' 

Many  of  our  travel  books  were  Writfein  as  letters 
and  journals;  some,  as  notes  or  strict  diaries.  You 
might  put  your  sketch  into  the  form  of  a  pjeiding^'s^ 
letter  to  a'  friend.  The  chief  thing  you  need  gentle 
to  remember  in  relating  any  journey,  how-  ^^*'*'"**^» 
ever  long  or  short,  is  Fielding's  gfentle  Wtirning' to' 
know  what  to  omit:  ^'To  make  a  traveler  an  agreeglble 
companion  to  a  man  of  sense,  it  is  necessary,  not  only 
that  he  should  have  seeil  much,  but  that  he  Should 
have  overlooked  much  of  what  he  hath  seen.  .  .  . 
[Some  voyage-writers]  waste  their  time  and  paper' With 
recording  things  and  facts  of  so  comriion  a  kind  that 


534  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NABBATIVES 

they  challenge  no  other  right  of  being  remembered 
than  as  they  had  the  honor  of  having  happeiied  to  the 
author,  to  whom  nothing  seems  trivial  that  in  any 
manner  happens  to  himself.  Of  such  consequence  do 
his  own  actions  appear  to  one  of  his  kind  that  he  would 
probably  think  himself  gnillfy:  of  infidelity  should  he 
omit  the  minutest  thing  in  the  det9>il  of  his  journal. 
That  the  fact  is  true,  is  sufficient  to  give  it  a  place  there 
without  any  consideration:  whether  it  is  capable  of 
A  motto  pleasing  or  surprising,  of  diverting  or  in- 
fertile forming  the  reader.''  By  implication  Field- 
narrator  jjjg  gives  the  tr;^vel  book  its  motto :  to  please 
and  surprise,  divert  and  inform. 

"On  tliA  Way  to  Talavera" 
The  next  day's  journey  brought  me  to  a  considerable 
town,  the  name  of  which  I  havei  forgotten.  It  is  the 
first  in  New  Castile,  in  this  direction.  1  passed  the  night 
as  usual  in  the  manger  of  the  stable,  close  beside  the 
Caballeria ;  f  oi*,  as  I  traveled  upon  a  donkey,  I  deemed  it 
incumbent  upon  me  to  be  satisfied  with  a  couch  in  keep- 
ing with  my  manner  of  journeying,  being  averse,  by  any 
squeamish  and  over  delicate  airs,  to  generate  a  suspicion 
amongst  the  people  with  whom  I  mingled  that  I  am  aught 
higher  than  what  my  equipage  and  outward  appearance 
might  lead  them  to  believe.  Rising  before  daylight,  I 
again  proceeded  on  my  way,  hoping  ere  night  to  be  able 
to  reac^h  Talavera,  which  I  was  informed  was  ten  leagues 
distsmt.  The  way  lay  entirely  over  an  unbroken  level, 
for  the  most  part  covered  with  olive  trees.  On  the  left, 
hqwever,  at  the  dist^ce  of  a  few  leagues,  rose  the  mighty 
^pujntains  which  I  have  already  mentioned.    They  rrm 


>> 


PAETIGULAR  AQCOUNTS  535 

eastward  in  a  seemingly  interminable  range,  paralM 
with  the  route  which  I  was  pursuing;  their  tops  and 
sides  were  covered  with  dazzling  snow,  and  the  blasts 
which  came  sweeping  from  them  across  the  wide  and 
melancholy  plains  were  of  bitter  keenness* 

*' What  lAountains  are  those?"  I  inquired  of  a  barber-r 
surgeon,  who,  mounted  like  myself  on  a  grey  burra, 
joined  me  about  noon,  and  proceeded  in  my  comp^any  for 
several  leagues.  **They  have  many  names,  Caballero, 
replied  the  barber;  "according  to  the  names  of  th^ 
neighbouring  places  so  they  are  called.  Yon  portion  of 
them  is  styled  the  Serriania  of  Plasencia  y  and  opposite 
to  Madrid  they  are  termed  the  ]VIountains  of  Guadarama, 
from  a  river  of  that  name  which  descends  from  them; 
they  run  a  vast  way,  Caballero,  and  separate  the  two 
kingdoms,  for  on  the  other  side  is  Qld  Castile.  They  are 
mighty  mountains,  and  though  they  generate  much  oold^ 
I  take  pleasure  in  looking  at  them,  which  is  not  to  be 
wondered  at,  seeing  that  I  was  born  among  them,  though 
at  present,  for  my  sins,  I  live  in  a  village  pf  the  plain. 
Caballero,  there  is  not  another  such  range  in  Spain ;  tbey 
have  their  secrets,  too— their  mysteries — strange  tales 
ar«  told  of  thos^  hills,  and  of  what  they  contain  in  their 
deep  recesses,  for  they  are  a  broad  chain,  and  you  may 
wander  days  and  days  amongst  them  without  coming  to 
any  termino.  Many  have  lost  themselves  on  those  hills, 
and  have  never  again  been  heard  of.  Strange  things  are 
told  of  them;  it  is  said  that  in  a  certain  place  there  are 
deep  pools  and  lakes  in  which  dwell  monsters,  hugei 
serpents  as  long  as  a  pine  tree,  and  horses  of  the  flood, 
which  soinetiines  pome  out  a-nd  commit  mighty  damage. 
One  thing  is  certain,  that  yonder,  far  away  to  the, west, 


53€  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

In  the  heart  of  those  hills,  there  is  a  wonderful  valley,  so 
narrow  that  only  at  midday  is  the  face  of  the  sun  to  be 
descried  from  it.  That  valley  lay  undiscovered  and  un- 
known for  thousands  of  years;  no  person  dreamed  of 
its  existence,  but  At  last,  a  long  time  ago,  certain  hunters 
entered  it  by  dhance,  and  then  what  do  you  think  they 
found,  Caballero?  Tt'hey  found  a  small  nation  or  tribe 
of  unknown  peoplfe,  speaking  an  unknown  language,  who 
perhaps,  had  lived  there  since  the  creation  of  the  world, 
without  intercourse  with  the  rest  of  their  fellow 
ci'eatures,  and!  without  knowing  that  other  beings  be- 
sides themselves  existed !  Caballero,  did  you  never  hear 
of  the  valley  of  the  Batuecasf  Many  books  have  been 
written  about  that  Valley  and  those  people,  Caballero,  I 
am  proud  of  yonder  hills ;  and  were  I  independent,  and 
without  wife  or  children,  I  woilld  purchaise  a  burra  like 
that  of  your  own,  which  I  see  is  an  excellent  one,  and  far 
superior  to  mine,  and  travel  amongst  them  till  I  knew 
all  their  mysteries,  and  had  seen  all  the  wondroms  things 
they  contain.'' 

Thhjugiiout  the  day  I  pressed' ttie  burra  forward,  only 
stopping  once  in  order  to  f 6ed  the  animal;  but,  iiotwith- 
standing  that  she  played  her  part  vei-y  wiftU,  night  came 
on,  and  I  was  still  about  two  leagues  from  Talavera.  As 
the  sun  went  down,  the  cold  became  intense ;  I  drew  the 
old  Gypsy  cloak,  which  I  stiir  wore,  closer  around  me, 
but  I  found  it  qtiite  inadequate  to  ^protect  me  from  the 
inclemency  of  the  atmosphere.  The  road,  which  lay  over 
a  plain,  was  not  very  distinctly  traced,  and  became  in 
the  dusk  rather  difbeult  to  find,  more  especially  as  cross 
road»  leading'  to  diflPerent  places  were  of  frequent  oc- 
currence. • 


PARTICULAB  ACCOUNTS  837 

I,  however,  proceeded  in  the  .best  maimer  I.oouid, 
and  when  I  became  dubious  as  to  the  coiarse  which 
I  should  take,  I  in^aiiabl^r  allowed  thei  animal  on  which 
I  was  mounted  todeoide.  At  length  the  mo&n:  shone  out 
f aintlj,  when  suddenly  thy  its  beams  I  behelds  ar  fi^re 
moving  before  me  at  a  slight  distance.-  I  quickened  the 
pace  of  the  burra,  alid  was  soon  dloae  at  it&  aade.  It 
went  (HDv  nether  alteiring  its.pade  not*  looking  toimd  for 
a  Btomesatt.  It  was.  the  ^gnte  of  a  aitan,  the.  taUest  and 
bulkiesii  that  I^had  hithepto>«een  inSpain,  dressed,  in  a 
manner  strange  and  aangular  for  the  c<miitry.  On  his 
head  WAS  t  hat!  with  a  low  evown  atid  broad  brim,  very 
much  resembliBg.that  of  an  EngKsh  waggoner ;  «hout  his 
body  wlus  a.loiig  kM)8e  tunic  or  sibp,  seemingly  o£  eo^ycse 
tiekea,  opien  in  fi^dnt^  so  as  to  .aUow  the  inteortor  gar- 
ments to  be  occasionally  seen;  these  appeared  to.^^onslBt 
of  a  jerkin  andshort  velveidedn  piantaloana  I  hav«  said 
that  the  brim  of  the  hot  Sn^m  broad,  but  buroad  a8>it  wa»y 
it  was  insufficient  to  cover  an  immense  bush  of  cOal^bladk 
hair,  which,  thibk  ajnd  curiiy^  projeoted  <»  either' side; 
over  thelelt  flhou]idev'was  flUng  akind  of-satohel,  aiulin 
the  right  ihond' wiis  held  a  tong  stafi  or  pole. 

There  :^as  something,  peculiariy  strange  abott  the 
figure,  but  what  struck  me  tJie-  most  wibs  the  ^tranquility 
withwthieihiit'BQioved  alwg,  taking;  no  heed,  of  me,;  though 
of  cojui^  aware  of  my  proximity,  but  looking  straight 
forward  along  the  road,  save  when  it  occasionally  raised 
a  hu^  fai^e  and  large  eyeti  toward  rtbe  melon,  which  was 
now  shining,  forth  in  the  eastern  quarter. 

'  <  A  aold  ;i^ht, ' '  said  I  at  Iftstv  '■ '  Is  this  the  Way  to 
Talayera.r'  .....;• 

'*It  is  the  way  to  Talavera,  and  the  night  is  cdld*?' 


638  TYPES  OP  PB03E  NARRATIVES 

'*I  am  going  to  Talavera,''  said  I,  **as  I  suppose  you 
are  yourself.'' 

**I  am  going  thither,  so  are  yoii,  Bueno.'^ 

The  tones  of  the  voice  which  delivered  these  words 
were  in  their  way  quite  as  strange  and  singular  as  the 
figure  to  which  the  voice  belonged ;  they  were  not  exactly 
the  tones  of  a  Spanish  voice,  and  yet  there  Was  something 
in  them  that  could  hardly  be  foreign ;  the  prozmneiation 
also  was  correct,  and  the  language,  though  singular, 
faultless.  But  I  was  most  struck  with  the  manner 
in  which  the  last  word,  bueno,  was  spoken.  I  bad  heard 
something  like  it  before,  but  where  or  when  I  could  by 
no  means  remember.  A  pause  now  ensued;  the  figure 
stalking  on  as  before  with  the  most  perfect  indifference, 
and  seemingly  with  no  disposition  either  to  seek  or  avoid 
conversation. 

''Are  you  not  afraid,**  said  I  at  last,  **to  travel  these 
roads  in  the  darkt  It  is  said  that  there  are  robbers 
abroad.'' 

**Are  you  not  rather  afraid/'  replied  the  figure,  **to 
travel  these  roads  in  the  dark  1 — yon  who  are  ignorant  of 
the  country,  who  are  a  foreigner,  an  Englishman  f" 

**How  is  it  that  you  know  me  to  be  an  Bnglishmant" 
demanded  I,  much  surprised. 

**That  is  no  diflfteult  matter,"  replied  tiie  jSgure; 
*'the  sound  of  your  voice  was  enou§^  to  apprise  me 
of  that." 

**You  speak  of  Voices,"  said  I;  ^*sup()OBe  the  tone  of 
your  own  voice  were  to  tell  me  who  you  arel*' 

•'That  it  will  not  do,"  replied  my  companion;  "you 
know  nothing  about  me — ^you  can  know  nothing  about 


PAETICULAB  ACCOUNTS  589 

**Be  not  gure  of  that,  my  fffiend;  I  am  acquainted 
with  many  things  of  whi«h  yon  have  little  idea.'* 

** For  example,"  said  the  figure. 

^ '  For  example, ' '  said  I, ' '  yon  speak  two  languages.  ■ ' 

The  figure  mov^d  on,  finemed  to,  consider  a  moment 
and  then  said  slowly,  Imeno, 

**You  have  two  names,- '  I  continued;  **one  (or  fch© 
house  and  tiie  other  for  the  street;  both-  are  good,  but 
the  one  by  which  you  are  called  at  home  is  the  onte' which 
yoii  Iftebest/' 

The  man  walked  on  about  ten  paces,  in  the  same  man-: 
ner  as  he  had  previcmriy  done ;  all  of  a  sodden  he  turned, 
and  taking  the  bridle  of  the :  burra  gently  in  his  hand, 
stopped  her.  I  had  now  a  full  view  of  his  face  and 
figure,  and  those  huge  features  and  Herculean*  ;form  dtill 
occasionally  revisit  me  in  my  dreams.  I  see  him  stand- 
ing in  the  moonshine,  staring  me  in  the  face  'with  his 
deep  calm  eyes.    At  last  he-  said  r^ 

*^ Are  you  then  one. of  usT* 

— Oeorge  Borrow; 
'*The  Biblft  m  ^ai»."    Th©  World ^s  CEUlssmss  (Oxford  Pe^sb)* 

''Smyrna:,  First  Glimpses  of  the  East" 

''I  am  glad  that  the  Turkish,  part,  of  Athens  was 
eKtinet,.sp>th9t  I  should  notW  baulked  of  the  pleasure 
of  entering  ai;i  Eastern  town  by  an  introduction  to.  any 
^arble4  or  incomplete  specimien  of  one.  Sm3rrna  seems 
to  me  thQ  most  Eastern  of.  aUI  have.se^nj  as  Calais  will 
probably  remain  to, the  Englishnian  the  most  French 
town  in  the  world,  The  jack-boots  of  the  postilions  don 't 
seem  sa  huge  elsewhere)  or  the  tight,  stockings  of  thd 
xaajid:*S0rvants  so  GaUie.   The  chuifches  and  the  ramparte 


540  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  KAfiSATIVES 

and  the  little  soldiers  on  them,  remain  f oiever  impTessed 
upon  your  memory;  from  whieh  larger  temples  and 
buildings,  and  whole  amies  hare  subsequently  disap- 
peared; and  the  first  words  of  actual  French  heard 
spoken^  and  the  first  dinner  at  'i^iiUaeq's'  remain  after 
twenty  years  as  clear  as  on  the  first  day.  Dear  Jones, 
ean't  you  remember  the  exact  smack  of  the  white 
hermitage,  and  the  toothless  old  f^ow  singing  ^Largo 
alfaet^umf"' 

The  first  day  in  the  East  is  like  that.  Aft«r  that 
there  is  nothing.  The  wonder  is  gone,  and  tiie  thrill  of 
that  delightful  diock,  which  so  seldom  tonehes  the  nerves 
of  plain  men  of  the  world,  though  they  seek  for  it  every- 
where.. One  such  looked  out  at  Smyrna  from  our  steamer 
^nd  yawned  without  the  least  excitement,  and  did  not 
betray  the  slightest  esAotion,  as  boats  with  real  Turks 
on  board  eattie  up  to  the  ship.  There  lay  the  town 
with  minarets  and  e3q>re8Bes,  domes  and  castles;  great 
guns  were  firing  off,  and  the  blood-red  flag  of  the  Sultan 
flaring  oyer  the  gulf's  edge,  and  as  you  looked  at  them 
with  the  telescope,  there  peered  out  of  the  general  mass 
a  score  of  pleasant  episodes  of  Eastern  life — ^there  were 
cottages  with  quaint  roofs;  silent  coolkioska,  where  the 
ehief  of  the  eunnehs'  brings  down  the  ladies  of  the  harem. 
I  saw  Hassan,  the  fisherman,  getting  his  nets;  and  Ali 
Biiba  going  off  with  his  donkey  to  the  gi^eat  forest  for 
wood.  Smith  looked  at  -theise  T«ronders  quit^  unmoved; 
and  I  was  surprised  at  hfe  af>athy;  btt%'be'had  been  at 
Smyrna  before.  A  inan  only  sees*  thd  miracle  once; 
though  ydu  yearn  after'it  eterso,  it  woti't  come  again. 
I  saw  nothing  of  Ali  Baba  and  Hassan  the  next  time  we 
^me  to  Smyrna,  and  had  some  doubts '  (reeolleeting  the 


PABUICiniAJe  ACCOUNTS  '  541 

badness  of  the  imi)  about  laadihg  4irt  lalL  A  ptrsmi  who 
wishes  to  undeiistaiid  Fxsmm  mid  the  Blist  ^teoftild  idomfe 
ia  a  yaieht  to  Calais  or; Stuyfiai,,  laaid  £or  twOf  hbiars^  aod 
never  aiteiNratd  gi&  bacfe  agaki. 

Bot  tiio»e  two  houm  ia^  twfytdnd  meitfto^e  delightful. 
Some  of  us  wete  quernlous  up  to  that  time  aM  dtnifoted 
of  ihe  mMdofoi'  of  miaking  Ihe  To^ge.    iMmn^  v^  owtied, 
was  a  failure.    Athens  a  dead  failure  5  Mafta  very  well, 
but  Bot  worth  tlie  trouible  and  beasicdiKSss  7  in!  fact,  Baden- 
Baden  or  De^onsliiTe  wotiM  be  a  better  move  <thlan  this^ 
when. Smyrna :oame  wtd  rpbtdied  all  mulinous^  tMksieyB 
intasiienee-    Some  men  may  read  this  who  ane  in  i^ant 
oi  a>  sensation.    It  they  lote  the  odd  &M  picrtunettque,  if 
they  loved  the  *' Arabian  Nights*'  m  tiieir  yirtithy  let 
thetn  book  thenu^lvds  oa'^doavdon^  of  the  Penin8ull»!  and 
Oriental  vessels  and  tryoike  dipinto  Oonirt^tlnopte  or 
Smyim£U    Walk  into  the  bazaar  and  the  Bast  is  tinvteiled 
to  you;  bcxw  often  and  often  have  you  tried  io^  fAaicy 
thi%  lying  out  on  a  snmlneir'  lnoliday  at  school!     It  is 
wonderful,  too,  how  like  it  is ;  you  may  imagine  that*  you 
liave  been  in  the  plaoe  beloret^  you^«ieem  to  ^hnowit  so 
well!  : 

''The  beauty  of.  that-  poetry  i%.  to  me,  that-  it  was 
xxever  tob  ha&dsomue;  there' is  no'  fatigue = of:  sublimity 
about  it.  Schacabae andlUe  little  Barber  play  as  great 
a  psairt  in  it  as  the  heroes;  there  kre  no  uneomiortftble 
sensations  of  terror;. you  may  be  familiar  Witii  the  g^at 
Afreet,  who  was  going  to  execute  thei  travd^ecs  f or  kin<r 
ixig  his  son.  Iv^ith. a  date  stone.  •  Moa?glana,  wh^en  she  kills 
tlie  Forty  Robbers  with  boiling  oil,' d<)es  not  sfeem  to  hurt 
tlion^Liin  the  least;  and  though  King*  Schahriar  makes  a 
prajetiee  of  cutting  off  hia^wives'  heads,  yet  i  you  fancy 


542  TYPES  OF  PKOSE  NARRATIVES 

they  got  them  on  again  in  aome  of  the  bade  rooms  of  the 
palace,  where  they  are  dancing  and  playing  on  dnlci- 
B^rs.  How  freshy  eaay^.good'iiatiired  is  all  thisl  How 
delightful  is  that  notion  of  the  pleasant  Eaatem  people 
about  ipnowledge,  where  the  height  of  scienee  is  made  to 
consist  in  the  answering  of  riddles  and  all  the  mathema- 
ticians and  magicians  bring  their  great  ^beards  to  bear 
on  a  conundrum  I 

'^When  I  got  ioto  the  bcusaar  among  this  race,  some- 
how I  felt  as  if  thiey  were  all  friends.  There  sat  the 
merchants  in-tilieir  little  shops,  qniet  and  solemn,  bat 
with  friendly  looks.  There  was  no  smoking,  it  was  the 
Bamazan;  no  eating— the  fish  and  m^eats  fizzing^  in  the 
enormous  pots  of  the  eook-rshops  are  only  for  the 
Christians.  The  children  abounded;  the  law  is  not  so 
stringent  upon  them,  and  many  wandering  merchants 
were  there  selling  figs  (in  the  name  of  the  Prophet, 
doubtless),  for  their  benefit,  and  elbowing  onward  with 
baskets  of  grapes  and  cucumbers.  .  Countrymen  passed 
bristling  over  with  arms,  each  with  a  huge  bellyful  of 
pistols  and  daggers  in  his  girdle;  fierce,  but  not  the 
least  dangerous.  Wild  swarthy  Arabs,  who  had  come 
in  with  the  caravans,,  walked  solemnly  about,  very  dif- 
ferent in  look  and  deaneauor  from  the  sleek  inhabitants 
of  the  town.  Greeks  and  Jews  squatted  and  smoked, 
thfeir  rfiops.  tended  by  sallow^^faced  boys,  with  large 
eyes,  who  smiled  and  welcomed  you  in ;  negroes  bustled 
about  in  gaudy  colors ;  and  women,  with  blaek  nose-bags 
and  shuffling  yellow  slippers,  chattered  and  bargained  at 
the  doors  of  the  little  shops.  There  was  the  rope  quarter 
and  the  sweetmeat  quarter,  and  the  pipe  bazaar  and  the 
^m  bazaar,  and  the  little  tumedrup  dioe  quarter,  and 


PAETICTJLAB  ACCOUNTS  543 

the  shops  where  ready-made  jaekets  and  pelisses  were 
swinging,  and  th6  region  where,  under  the  ragged  awn- 
ingSy  regiments  of  tailors  were  at  work.  The  sun  peeps 
throtigh  these  awnings  of  mat  or  canvas,  which  are 
hung  over  the  narrow  lanes  of  the  bazaar  and  omamecits 
them  with  a  thorosand  freaJiB  of  light  and  shadow.  Cogia 
Hassan  Alhabbal's  shop  is  in  a  blaze. of  light;  while  his 
neighbor,  the  barber  and  coffie^honse  keepbr,  has  his 
premises^  his  low  seats  and  narghiles,  his-  queer  polaB 
and  basins,  in  the  shade.  The  cobblars  are  always  goodU 
natiured;  thfire  was  one  who,  I  am  sure,  has.  been  re- 
vealed to  me  in  my  dreams,  in  a  dirty  old  green  txurfaan, 
with /la  pleasant  wrinkled  faee  like  an>apple;  twznkUng 
his  Hittie  gray  ^es  as  he  held  th^n  lap  to  the.  gossips, 
and  smiUngiunder  a  delii^tf id  old  gray  beard,  which 
did  the  heart  good  to  see.  You  divine  the  conversatioak 
betwecin  him  and  tiie  eucumber  man,  as  the  Saltan  used 
to  understand  the  language  of  birds.  Are  any  of  those 
cucumbers  stuffed  with  pearls,  and  is  that  Armeniam 
with  the  black  square  turban  Haroun  Alraschid  in. dis- 
guise, staadikig  yonder  by  the  fountain  where  the  chil- 
dren are  driiydng— *the  gleaming  marble  fountain, 
cheeked  all  :Over  with  light  and  shadow,  and  engraved 
with  delibate  Arabesques  and  sentences  from  the 
Korauif 

'^But  the  greatest  sensation  of  all  is  when  the  camels 
come.  Whole  filtrings  of  real  camels,!  better  even  than  in 
the  procession /of  Blue  Beard,  with  soft  rolling  eyes  and 
bended  necks,  swaying  from  one  side  of  the  biozaar  to 
the  other  to  and  fro,  and  treading  gingerly  with  their 
great  feet.  Oh,  you  fairy  dreams  of  boyhood !  Oh,  you 
sweet  meditations  of  hulf-hoUdays,  here  you  are  realized 


544  TYPES  OF  PBOSS  NASBATIVES 

for  half  an  faour !  The  genius  whish  presides  over  yonth 
led  up'to'do  a  good  aotion  that  day.  fPhere  was  a  man 
sitting  in  an  open  room  ornamented'  with  fine  long- 
tailed  sentences  of  the  Koran  ^  some  in  red,  some  in  4>liie; 
sooie  written  diagonally  over  the  ^aper;  some  so-  shaped 
as  to>  represent  AipUy  dragons,  6r  mysteriams  animals. 
The  miin  sqnatted  on  a  earpeit  in  the  middle  of  this  room, 
with  folded  arms,  wag^iUfT  hii»  bead  to  and  fro,  swaying 
about,  and  i»nging  throngh'his  nose-choioe  phrases  from 
1^  saered  work.  But  from  liie  room  above  came  a  clear 
voice  of  many  little  shouting  vokes,  much  more  musical 
than  that  of  Naso  in  H;he  matted  pario^,  and  the  guide 
told  us  it  was  a  seho<^,  so  we  went  upstairs  to  Look. 

^^I.deelare^  (m  my  oonseienoe,  the  master  wai^  m  the 
act  of  bastinadoing  a  little  mulatto  boy^  his  feet  were 
sna  bar,  and  the- brute  was  laying  on  with  a  cane;  so 
iwe. witnessed  the  haw]iing  of  the  pooc  boy,  and  the  con- 
fusion of  the  btote  who  Was  administei^ing  iSke  correc- 
tion. The  other  children  were  made  to  shout,  I  believe, 
to  drown  the  noise. of  theEri little  ^comrade's  howling;  bat 
the  punishmi^nt  was  instantly  diseonAinued  as  our  hats 
eame  up  over  the  stair*trap,  and  the  boiy  cast  loose,  and 
the  bamboo. huddled  intoa  comer,  and  tine  sehoolmaster 
stood  before  us  abashed^  .All  tbe  small  scholars  in  red 
caps,  and  the  little  girls  in  gaudy  handkerchiefs  turned 
their  big  wondering  dark  eyes  toward  us ;  and  the  caning 
was  over  tor  that  tiiaie;  let  iis- trust.  I  don't  envy  some 
Iscboolmasters  in  a  future  state^  I  pity  that  poor  little 
Mubbering  Mahomietan;'he  will  never  .be  able  to  relish 
tihe  'Arabian  Nights'  in  the  original  as  long  as  he 
lives-  • 

**From  this  swne  we.irfudieid  'off  somcfwhat  discom- 


'  PAItTIJOULA^:  ACCOUNTS  546 

po8e4  to  ioaIi^  ai  lureak;fast  aS.  ^d  laauUets  a^d  gcfupeaj 
melons,  pomegranates,  and  Smyrna  wine,  at  a  dirty  UMle 
comfortuble:  ijm  j^o.  whieh  w^  !W?3re,re<lo«amettdeds  and 
from,  the  windows  of  wiicl;  we.  had  ft.fine^iCbe^rl«l  vieiv^ 
of  tbegiAif  aiul.its  h\W  erfift,  and  the:loflftgers  anfd 
nxerchants  aloiig  tl>e  shore.  There  w^i:e  cawelei  unloiiKV 
ijig  at  Qn^  wh^f,  andpU^fft.Qf.naelaos  muqh  bigger  thaapi 
the  Gihraltax!  Qawioji-balls  at  another.  It  waS:  the  fig 
seai;K>ny  and  we  parsed  tfaxough  several  alleys. encttmbered 
with  long  rpws  of  fig-dreesera,  <jhildren  *Bd  w^»en  for 
the  most  part,  who  w^re,pa^ng  the  f  rait- diligently  into 
drwnjB,  dippiHg  l^eega  in,  salt  w^t^r  .first,  and  spreading 
the;ott  neatly  qyer  .yfith  l^av^;  lyhiji^  tMi  figs,  find:,lea^a 
aire  drying,  larg^  whi^e  ^isrofaua  crfivl  put  <^f.  .theiii  and 
swarm  oyer  tb^^. deejj»  of  the  ships  ¥rbicb.<aarjo^  them  to» 
Europe,  i«md  to  Epglandi  Fhere  sji^aU  children  eat  theii?k 
with  p^easu^e^T-I  mesua  the.  flg%  wt  the  .^qirm^r^and 
whei^e  they  a^e  stijl  served  at  wine;  parties  at  the  uni- 
versities. When  fresfh  they  are  nofe  better  than  ^^Ise^ 
where ;  bia,t  the  melons  are  of.  admirable:  fflayar,  an4  bq 
large :  that.  Cinderella  might  alm?ost  be  ^jeeomn^odat^d 
with  s^  qoapl>,mad/B  of  a  big. one,  without  amy  very  great 

distention  of  iti^origiinal  pTQportiQo^: 

**Our  gnid^,  an  aQpompliahediswindJeir,  demaivd«d  two- 
doUans  as  t^ie  f  eje  !f  or  entering  th^  mosque,  whijeh  Dthw» 
of  our  party. subsequeptiy  saw  for,  sixpepace^  so. w^  did 
not  cai:e;'t9  ej;amine  th^t  pja^.  of  worship-  BvX  there, 
were  .otherr  cheaper  sights>  which  were  to,  the  full  as 
pictur^i^ue,.  fpr  which  .therie  was  no  call  to  pay  money, 
or  indeec^  fqr  a  day,  scarcely  .to  jaove  at  all;  I  doidJt 
whether  a  man  who  would  smoke  his  pipQ  on  a  bazaar 
coun^rall  d^^'ftnd  let  theieity.flovr  by  him,  would  not 


546  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NARRATrVES 

be  almost  as  well  employed  as  the  mmt  a<^tive  curiosity 
htmilier. 

^*To  be  sure  he  wonld  not  see  the  woirien.  Those  in 
the  bazaar  were  shabby  people  for  the  most  part,  whose 
black  masks  nobody  Would  feel  a  curiomty  to  remove. 
You  could  see  no  more  of  their  figure  than  if  they  had 
been  stuflfed  in  holsters ;  and  even  their  feet  were  brought 
to  a  general  splay  uniformity  by  the  double  yellow  slip- 
pers which  the  wives  of  true  believers  wear.  But  it  is 
in  the  Greek  and  Armenian  quarters,  and  among  those 
poor  Christians  who  were  pulling  figs,  that  you  see  the 
beauties ;  and  a  man  of  a  generous  disposition  may  lose 
his  heart  half  a  dozen  times  a  day  in  Smyrna.  There 
was  the  pretty  maid  at  work  at  a  tattibour  frame  in  an 
open  porch,  with  an  old  dolenna  spinning  by  her  side, 
and  a  goat  tied  up  to  the  railings  Of  the  little  court 
garden ;  there  was  the  nymph  who  came  down  the  stair 
with  the  pitcher  on  her  head,  and  gazed  with  great  calm 
eyes,  as  large  and  stately  as  Juno's ;  there  was  the  gentle 
mother,  bending  over  a  queer  cradle,  in  which  lay  a 
Ismail  crying  bundle  of  infancy.  All  these  three  charm- 
ers were  seen  in  a  single  street  in  the  Armenian  quarter, 
where  the  house  doors  are  all  open,  and  the  women  of 
the  families  sit  under  the  arches  in  the  court.  There 
was  the  fig  girl,  beautiful  beyond  all  others,  with  an 
immense  coil  of  deep  black  hair  twisted  round  a  head 
of  which  Raphael  was  worthy  to  draw  the  outline,  and 
Titian  to  paint  the  color.  I  wonder  the  Sultan  has  not 
swept  her  oflf,  or  that  the  Persian  merchants,  who  come 
with  silks  and  sweetmeats  have  not  kidnapped  her  for 
the  Shah  of  Tehean. 

^*  We  went  to  see  the  Persian  merchants  at  their  khan, 


PARTICULAR  ACCOUNTS  =  '  647 

and  purchased  som^  silks  there  from  a  swaHhy,  black- 
bearded  man  with  a  eonioal .  cap  of  lambswool.  Is  it 
not  hard  to  think  that  silks  bought  of  a  man  in  a  lambsh 
wool  cap,  in  a  caravJUEneria,  brought  hither  on  the  baote 
of  camels,  should  have  been  manufactured  after  all  at 
Lyons?  Others  of  our  party;  bought  carpets,  for  which 
the  town  is  famous;  and  there  was  one  absolutely  laid 
in  a  stock  of  real  Smyrna  figs,  and  purchased  three  or 
four  real  Smyrna  sponges  for  his  carriage;  so  strong 
was  his  passion  for  ^he  genuine  artide.  . 

*^I  wonder  that  no  painter  has  given  us  familiar 
views  of  the  East;  not  processions,  grand  sultans,  or 
magnificent  landscapes,  but  faithful  transcripts  of  every- 
day Oriental  life,  sudh  as  each  street  will  supply  to  him. 
The  camels  afford  endless  motives,  couched  in  the  market 
places,  lying  by  thousands  in  the  camel  square,  s&orting 
and  bubbling  after  their  manner,  the  sun  blazing  down 
on  their  backs,  their  slaves  and  keepers  lying  behind 
them  in  the  shade;  and  the  Caravan  Bridge,  above  all, 
would  afford  a  painter  subjects  for  a  dozen  of  pictures. 
Over  this  Roman  arch,  which  crosses  the  Meles  river,  aU 
the  caravans  pass  on  their  entrance  to  the  town.  On  one 
Bide^  as  we  sat  and  looked  at  it,  was  a  great  row  of  plane 
trees ;  on  the  opposite  bank  a  deep  wood  of  tall  cypresses, 
in  the  midst  of  which  rose  up  innumferable  gray  tdmbs^ 
surmounted  with  the  turbans  of-  the  defunct  belieVersL 
Beside  the  stream  the  view  was^  less  gloomy.  There  was 
under  the  plane  trees  a  little  coffee  house,  shaded  by 
a  trellis-work,  covered  over  with  a  vine  and  ornamented 
with  many  rows  of  shining  pots  and  water-pipes,  for 
whieh  there  was  no  use  at  noonday  now,  in  the  time  of 
Ramazan. 


548  TYPBa  OF  PB08B  NABBAWVES 

'^ Hard' l](7  .the  eoffee  house  was  a  garden  aad  a  bab- 
Umg  mirble  fountain,  and  over  the  stream  waa  a  brok^ 
snmmerhoiise,  to  whieh-  amlatcniFs .  niay  ascend  t&r  the 
purpose  of  examming  the  riyer,  and  all  round  the  plane 
tre^s  plenty  of  stools  for  those  who  weriB  inelijned  to  sit 
and  drink  sweft^  thiek  odffee  or  eool  lemonade  made  of 
fresh  grieeu  ditrons.  The  maslear  of  tiie  house^  dressed 
in  a  white  tarban  and  light  bine  pelissd,  lolled  under  the 
e&SeQ-^OBse  awning;  the  slave  in  white  with  a  crimson 
striped  jacket,  his  face  as  black  as  ebony,  brought  up 
pipes  and  lemenlade  again,  and  returned  to  his  station 
at  the  eofi^e  house,  where  he;  curled  hi£fi  black  legs  to- 
gether and  began  singing  onil  of  hk  flat  nose  to  the 
tknimming  of  a  long  guitar  witih-  wire  dtrin^.  The 
instrufment  was  not  bigger  than  a  soup  ladle,  with  a 
long  straight  handle,  htt  dts  music  pleased  the  per- 
former^ for  his  eyes  rolled  shining  about,  and  his  head 
wagged,  and  he  grinned  with  an  innocent  imtensity  of 
enjoyment  that  did^one  good  to  look  at.  And  there  was 
a  friend  to  idiare  his  pleasure;  a  Turk  diressed  in  scarlet 
Bind  oorered  all  meap  with  dagger  a^d  ipisitols,  Bat  lean- 
ing forward  bn  his  little  stool,  roK^aiiig  «bout  and  grin- 
ning quite  as  eagerly  as  the  blabk  mitistrels.  As  he  sang 
and  wei  listened,,  figures  of  women  bearing  pitchers  went 
passing  orer  the  Roman  bridge  which  we  saw  between 
the  large  trunks  of  the  planes;  or  gray  fbrms  of  camels 
were  seen  stalking  aerobs  it^  the  string  preceded  by  the 
little  donkey,  who  is  alwaj^s  bare  thieir  Jojjkg-eared  con- 
duntor. 

'  *  *Thee(e  are  veary  huml^le.iAoidents  of  travel.  Wher- 
ever the' steambwit  touetes  the  shore  adventure  retreats 
into  the  interior,  and  what  is  called  romance. vanishes. 


PABTICTJIiAJa  ACCOUNTS  649 

It  won't  bear  the  vulgar  gaze;  or  rather  the  light,  of 
common  day  puts  it  out,  and  it  ig  only  in  the  dark  that 
it  shines  at  aU.  There  is  no  cursing  and  insultiiig  of 
Giaours  now.  If  a  cockney  looks  or  behaves  in  a  parr 
tieularly  ridiculous  way,  the  little  Turks  come  out  aad 
laugh  it  him.  A  Lond(mer  is  no  longer  a  spittoon  £or 
true  believers;  and  now  that  dark  Hassan  sits  in  his 
divan  and  drinks  champagne,  and  Selim  has  a  French 
watch,  an4  Zuleika  perhaps  takes  Morrison's  piUs, 
Byronism  becomes  absurd  instead  of  sublimjC,  and  is 
only  a  foolish  expression  of  cockney  wonder.  They  still 
occasioaially  beat  a  man  for  going  iikto  a  mosque,  but  this 
is  almost  the  only  sign  of  ferocious  vitality  left  in  the 
Turk  of  the  Mediterranean  coast,  and  strangers  may 
enter  scores  of  mosques  without  molestation.  The 
paddlewheel  is  the  great  ecmqueror.  Wherever  the  cap- 
tain cries  *Stop  her!'  civilization  stops,  and  lands  in  the 
ship's  boat,  and  makes  a  permanent  acquaintance  with 
the  savages  on  shore..  Whole  hosts  bt  crusaders  have 
passed  and  died  and  butchered  here  in  vain.  But  to 
manufacture  European. iron  into  pikes  and  helmets  was 
a  waste  of  metal ;  in  the  shape  of  piston  rods  and  furnace . 
pokers  it  is  irresistible ;  and  I  think  an  allegory  might 
be  made  showing  how  much  stronger  commerce  is  than 
chivalry,  and  finishing  with  a  grand  image  of  MJahomet's 
crescent  being  extinguished  in  Fulton's  boiler. 

**This  I  thought  was  the  moral  of  the  day's  sights 
and  adventures.  We  pulled  off  the  steamer  in  the  after- 
noon— ^the  Ikibat  blowing  fresh  and  setting  all  the  craft 
in  the  gulf  dancing  over  its  blue  waters.  We  were 
presently  under  weigh  again,  the  captain  ordering  his 
engines  to  work  only  at  half  power,  so  that  a  French 


550  TYPES  OP  PBOSE  NABRATIVES 

steamer  which  was  quitting  Smyrna  at  the  same  time 
might  oome  up  with  us  and  fancy  she  could  beat  the 
irresistible  Tagus.  Vain  hope  1  Just  as  the  Frenchman 
neared  us,  the  Tagus  shot  out  like  an  arrow  and  the  dis- 
comfited Frenchman  went  behind.  Though  we  all 
relished  the  joke  exceedingly,  there  was  a  French  gentle- 
man on  board  who  did  not  seem  to  be  by  any  means 
tickled  with  it;  but  he  had  received  papers  at  Smyrna 
containing  news  of  Marshal  Bttgeaud's  victory  at  Isley 
and  had  this  land  victory  to  set  against  our  harmless 
little  triumph  at  sea. 

''That  night  we  rounded  the  Island  of  Mitylene,  and 
next  day  the  coast  of  Troy  was  in  sight,  and  the  tomb 
of  Achilles — a  dismal-looking  mound  that  rises  on  a  low, 
dreary,  barren  shore — ^less  lively  and  not  more  pictur- 
esque than  the  Sehelot  or  the  mouth  of  the  Thames. 
Then  we  passed  Tenedos  and  the  forts  and  town  at  the 
mouth  of  the  Dardanelles.  Thje  weather  was  not  too  hot, 
the  water  as  smooth  as  at  Putney,  and  everybody  happy 
and  excited  at  the  thought  of  seeing  Constantinople  to- 
morrow. We  had  music  on  board  all  the  way  from 
Smyrna.  A'  German  oomniis  tvoyageur,  with  a  guitar, 
who  had  passed  unnoticed  until  that  tinae,  produced  his 
instrument  about  midday  and  began  to  whistle  waltzes. 
He  whistled  so  divinely  that  the  ladies  left  their  cabins 
and  men  laid  down  their  books.  He  whistled  a  polka  so 
bewitehingly  that  two  young  Oxford  men  began  whirling 
round  the  deck  and  performed  that  popular  dance  with 
much  agility  until  they  sank  down  tired.  He  still  con- 
tinued an  unabated  whistling,  and  as  nobody  ^would 
dance,  pulled  off  his  coat,  produced  a  pair  of  castanets, 
and  whistling  a  mazurka,  performed  it  with  tremendous 


PAKTICULAR  ACCOtJNTS  55I 

agility.  Hk  whistling  made  everybody  gay  and  happy — 
made  those  acquainted  who  had  not  spoken  before,  and 
inspired  sueh  a  feeling  of  hilarity  in  the  ship  that  that  - 
night,  as  we  floated  over  the  Sea  of  Marmora,  a  general 
vote  was  expressed  for  broiled  bones  and  a  regular  sup- 
per party.  Punch  was  brewed  and  speeches  were  made, 
and,  after  a  lapse  of  fifteen  years,  I  heard  the  *  Old  Eng- 
lish Gentleman'  and  *  Bright  Chanticleer  Proclaims  the 
Mom,'  sung  in  sueh  style  that  you  would  almost  fancy 
the  proctors  must  hear  and  send  us  all  home." 

— ^William  Makepeace  Thackeray. 
*'A  Journey  from  Cornhill  to  Cairo." 

A  Trip  from  Currlmao  to  Laoag 

Late  in  the  afternoon  of  last  April  third,  Mr.  C. 
Guia  aiid  I  left  Gurrimao  for  San  Nicolas  and  Laoag, 
respectively.  We  traveled  in  a  cart  drawn  by  a  fat 
gray  cow. 

At  first  it  was  not  altogether  pleasant  to  go  now  up 
then  down  the  irregular  road,  and  besides,  the  cart — a 
shoe-box-shaped  sort  of  buggy  with  bamboo  sides  and 
floor- — ^was  far  from  being  comfortable.  The  driver  was 
a  sturdy  broad-shouldered  eountpy  fellow,  dressed  in  a 
red  home-spun  shirt  worn  outside  of  his  tight  dark-green 
trouserg,  ix)lled  up  above  his  knees.  His  big.bolo,  sus- 
pended from  his  tough  belt  that  he  wore  outside,  was 
at  his  left;  while  his  callugung — ^a  saucer-shaped  hat 
made  from  a  dried  wild  sqUash — ^was  dangling  at  his 
right. 

Since  we  left  Ourrimao  he  had  not  addressed  tis  a 
single  word,  but  all  of  a  sudden  when  the  cart  stopped 
in  front  of  a  ragged  cottage,  he  cried  oiit  loud  a»  if  we 


562  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NABBATIVES 

were  deaf,  *'Apn,  arac  quen  maiz/'  which  means,  *'Sir8, 
wine  and  com/'  Mr.  Guia  and  I  rose  from  our  squat- 
ting posture  on  the  floor  by  the  side  of  our  steamer 
trunks  and  suit  cases  and  got  down  to  buy  .for  our  driver 
the  things  that  he  needed. 

When  we  entered,  the  inner  api>earance  of  the  cot- 
tage in  the  dim  light  of  a  small  oil  lamp  hanging  from 
the  middle  of  the  ceiling  aroused  somewhat  my  pity  for 
the  occupants.  In  one  comer  a  rather  old  though  fat 
woman  was  cooking  supper,  while  in  another  corner 
were  fishing  nets,  a  new  plow,  a  hunting  spear  and  a 
callugung.  In  the  comer  near  the  door  were  rough  boxes 
on  which  were  ragged  mats  and  red  pillows.  In  the 
middle  of  the  room  was  a  basket  of  com  which  an  old, 
muscular  man  was  husking  when  we  entered  and  which 
he  left  to  attend  to  our  needs.  We  were  invited  to  sit 
on  a  long  bamboo  bench  whioh  occiq)ied  one  ^de  of  the 
room  and  where  we  remained  as  mute  as  statues  until 
our  driver,  having  filled  his  stomach  with  vino  and 
having  given  his  animal  enough  com,  summoned  us  to 
continue  our  journey. 

We  went  out,  and  as  the  moon  was  now  shining 
br^htly,  we  had  a  fronj  view  of  the  cottage.  The  cogon 
roof,  on  which  were  perched  some  chickens,  was  pyra- 
mid-like, and  the  walls,  broken  at  places  but  patched 
with  rice-sacks  through  which  the  dim  light  of  the  lamp 
was  visible,  were  made  of  bamboo.  The  porch,  at  the 
middle  of  which  was  a  wooden  staircase  shaded  by  broad 
eaves,  was  piled  full  of  com. 

After  we  paid  the  old  man  for  what  he  supplied  our 
now  half-drunk  driver,  we  again  assumed  our  tmeom- 
fortable  position  in  the  cart.    The  road  was  now  smooth 


PAETICULAK  ACCOUNTS  558 

and  I  was  surprised  to  find  ourselves  suffering  still  the 
disagreeable  upward  and  downward  movement  of  the 
cart.  I  examined  the  two  solid  wooden  wheels,  and  I 
found  that  they  were  not  round,  but  oval.  But  the 
beautiful  panorama  of  the  country  soon  made  me  forget 
my  discomfort  in  the  cart.  On  our  left  and  right  were 
square  rice-fields — some  yeUow  with  ripe  grain  and 
others  green  with  young  leaves-— dotted  here  and  there 
with  hamlets  or  solitary  trees  so  that  they  resembled  a 
checker-board. 

All  the  while  that  I  was  admiring  this  view,  Mr. 
Ghiia  seemed  to  be  buried  in  deep  thought.  "We  were 
cabin-mates  in  the  steamship  Bustamante  that  brought 
us  from  Manila,  and  therefore  I  had  known  him  f otr  bnt 
three  days,  during  which  he  was  always  cheerful  and 
gay.  But  now  what  a  sad  and  mournful  countenance! 
His  yowthful  and  oval  face,  hitherto  jovial  and  beaming 
with  health,  was  pale.  I  was  very  sorry  to  see  my  com- 
panion thus  aifiieted  with  garief,  and  I  said  in  a  sympa- 
thetixj  voice,  **Mr.  Guia,  are  you  siokT'  He  answered, 
*'No,  I  am  not.  But,  my  friend,  my  mo-mo-mother  died 
nine  days  ago,  and  that's  why,  as  you  see,  I  am  mourn- 
ing. ' '  Ind^d,  he  wa»  mourning,  for  he  wore  a  black  cap, 
suit,  tie  and  shoes.  I  dared  not  continue  onr  conversation 
along  that  line,  for  I  knew  it  would  but  grieve  him  the 
more.  9o  I  expressed  my  condolence  by  silence.  After  a 
moment  of  quietude  he  told  the  driver  something  in 
Ilooano  which  I  did  not  understand. 

Suddenly  the  driver  began  to  sing  with  a  tremnlous 
voice  a  common  country  ditty  called  *'Dalla-dallue." 
As  it  was  getting  late,  I  was  soon  lulled  into  a  sound 
sleep.    I  think  I  had  slept  for  about  two  hours  when  p 


554  TYPES  or  PEOSE  NARRATIVES 

loud  barking  of  five  dogs  awoke  me.  When  I  looked 
around,  I  found  that  we  were  in  a  town,  for-we  were 
passing  by  a  church  whose  stone  wall  was  black  with 
moss  and  at  whose  rear  a  river  was  flowing.  I  asked 
Mr.  Guia  in  what  town  we  were  and  he  answered, '  *  Why, 
we  are  in  San  Nicolas  now."  I  replied,  **Then  here  we 
part."  He  exclaimed,  **0h,  no!  You  are  very  tired, 
and  it  would  be  better  for  you  to  spend  the  rest  of  the 
night  at  my  house.  Besides  you  will  not,  I  am  sure,  be 
able  to  wake  the  banquero  (boatman),  for  it  is  now  past 
midnight.  To-night  is  also  the  celebration  gf  what  we 
call  Umbras  in  honor  of  my  dead  mother,  and  I  should 
like  you  to  be  my  special  guest."  I  thanked  him  very 
much  for  his  kind  invitation,  and,  of  course,  in  the  face 
of  the  obstacle  he  foretold,  I  was  glad  enough,  to  accept. 

The  cart  turned  a  corner  and  stopped  suddenly  in 
front  of  a  soriiewhat  large  wooden  corrugated  iron  roofed 
house — a  typical  town  residence  in  the  Philippines.  We 
got  down  immediately  from  the  cart,  and  we  were  met 
at  the  gate  by  a  boy  of  about  fifteen  years  of  age.  After 
IVIr.  Guia  told  the  boy  to  look  to  our  baggage,  he  eon- 
ducted  me  to  the  sala,  where  he  met  his  relatives. 

While  the  affectionate  greetings  were  going  on  be- 
tween Mr.  Quia  and  his  family,  I  had  time  to  observe 
all  that  was  in  the  room.  In  one  corner  were  young 
women  and  young  men  playing  cards  around  a  circular 
marble  table,  while  in  another  corner  were  old  women, 
talking  of  the  high  merits  of  the  departed  one.  In  the 
comer  near  the  door  where  I  was  standing,  a  crowd  of 
old  fellows  were  drinking  basi — a  wine  made  from  sugar 
cane — and  1  noticed  our  driver  joining  them.  The  walls 
•^med  to  be  very  plain ;  iadeec^  all  the  decorations  were 


PABTICIJLAB  AC(X>UNTS  655 

covered  with  black  elotlu  In  the  center  of  the  s<da.  was 
a  large  reetajigxilar  table  on  which  were  diffei^nt  Mods 
of  food  ready  to  be  eaten.  The  viands,  howiever,  were 
xjold,  so  I  judged  that  the  table  must  have  been  set  early 
in  theeveniiag. 

As. I  was  wondering  why  the  table  was  placed  there, 
Mr.  Gaiia  came  and  took  me  into  his  room  where  my 
baggage  was  put.  My  thought  was  «till  oeiitered  upon 
the  table,  and  my  curiosity  led  me  to  ask  my  friend 
about  it.  Before  he  answered  me,  he  smiled,  and  then 
said,  ''You  must  know  that  it  is  the  custom  of  the 
Ilocanos  the  ninth  night  after  the  death  of  any  grown-up 
person  to  celebrate  a  mourning  festival  called  Umbars. 
Each  friend  of  the  dead  person  brings  during  that  day 
food  either  cooked  or  uncooked.  That  on  the  table  is 
the  cooked  food,  which  is  considered  to  be  sacred  and 
which,  as  you  have  just  seen,  is  being  watched  by  the 
people  in  the  room.  Nobody  is  supposed  to  touch  the 
food  before  the  prayer,  which  will  begin  at  three  o'clock. 
After  the  prayer  is  over,  which  will  last  for  about  two 
hours,  then  all  the  guests  will  eat  the  food,  but  at  the 
head  of  the  table  a  vacant  seat  is  left  for  the  spirit  of 
the  dead  to  sit.  After  the  feast  the  guests  depart,  and 
the  festival  ends." 

During  the  time  that  Mr.  Quia  was  explaining  tp 
me  the  Vmhras,  I  was  able  to  wash  myself  and  to  change 
my  traveling  suit.  So  after  he  finished,  he  conducted 
me  into  the  dining-room  where  we 'both  ate  a  hearty 
meal.  Naturally,  after  we  had  finished  eating,  we  joined 
the  company  of  young  men  and  young  women,  to  each 
of  whom  I  was  introduced  and  with  whom  we  played 
cards  until  the  time  for  prayers.    In  the  midst  of  the 


566  TYPES  OF  PEOSE  NAEEATIVES 

prayer  I  asked  the  permission  of  Mr.  Guia  to  go  to  his 
room  to  pack  up  my  things  so  that  I  should  be  able  to 
leave  after  the  prayer. 

When  all  the  guests  had  departed,  I  bade  good-bye 
to  my  friend  and  his  sorrow-stricken  relatives.  Within 
fifteen  minutes  I  reached  Laoag,  and  was  once  more  safe 
in  the  hands  of  a  brother  with  whom  I  spent  a  pleasant 
three  weeks'  sojourn. 

— ^Fernando  M.  Maramag. 


CHAPTER  Vni 

PERSONAL  ACCOUNTS 

Within  tbe  growp  of  persan^l  accounts  come  the  more+ 
or-Ies8  epcten^ed  records  of  the  sayings  and  doings  of 
men  and  women  in  their  most  acute  individuality.  It  is 
intimate,  detailed  living  that  is  expressed  in  a  diary,  in 
memoirs,  or  a  biography.  These  have  a  peculiar  charm. 
We  e^cpect  endearing  things  in  a  diary,  interesting  ones 
in  an  autobiography,  and,  if  not  surprisingly  informing, 
then  surely  upright  and  praiseworthy  ones,  often  patri- 
otic, in  a  biography. 

L    Jommal  and  Diary 

As  words,  journal  and  diary  mean  the  same  thing. 
They  both  denote  a  daily  record.  Journal  comes  imme- 
diately from  the  French  jour  meaning  day.  Definition 
and  remotely  from  the  same  Latin  word  from  which. we 
get  diurnal.  Diary  comes  directly  from  the  Latin  dies, 
'  If  there  be  any  difference  in  the  use  of  the  titles,  it  lies 
in  the  object  the  maker  of  the  daily  record  has  in 
mind.  A  journal  is  written  for  a  reader.  A  diary  is 
kept  for  the  writer's  own  amusement  or  profit.  Both 
mix  little  and  great  affairs  promiscuously. 

A  journal,  of  course,  is  likely  to  treat  of  a  fewer 
number  of  trivial  things  than  is  a  diary,  and  oftener 

557 


558  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NABRATIVES 

the  less  personal,  though  Swift's  wonderful  '* Journal 
to  Stella/'  written  in  the  little  language  and  meant  for 
The  range  **^<>  eye  but  hers  and  the  faithful  Ding- 
of journals  ley's''  is  as  personal  as  can  be.  James 
Madison's  -stately,  record' of ;  tie  American  Constitu- 
tional Convention  stands  at  the  antipodes,  we  might 
say;  and  Hesdin's  ''Journal  of  a  Spy  in  Paris  during 
the  Reign  of  Terror,"  far  oflE  to  the  right  perhaps;  and 
the  Swiss  poet,  Henri  iVgderic  Amiel's  private  philo- 
sophical and  moral  reflections,  his  ''Journal  Intime," 
far  to  the  left.  In  the  middle  might  come  the  travelers' 
journals — like  Fielding's  "Voyage  to  Lisbon"  and 
Montaigne 's  ' '  Voyage  in  .  Italy, ' '  or  even  John  C. 
Fremont's  soldier  explorations^ — as  typical  of  the  daily 
record  that  is  personal,  yet  not  intensely  so,  and  is 
written  to  be  read. 

A  quaint  and  at  once  extremely  romantic  travel- 
journal  of  this  sort  is  the  Vida  del  Gran  Tamurlan, 
perhaps  the  oldest  piece  €if.  travel  writing  in  Spanish 
literature.  It  is  the  daily  record  of  the  voyages  and 
residences  of  the  ambassadors  of  Henry  the  Third  on  a 
diplomatic  mission  to  Tamburlane.  the  Great — ^that 
same  old  Tartar  potentate  and  conqueror  whom  Mar- 
lowe made  immortal  by  putting  into  his  mouth  those 
high-astounding  terms'  and  that  flowing  blank  verse, 
which  so  exactly  suited  his  character  as  well  as  Mar- 
low:e's  own.  The  adventures  of  this  embassy  v^ere 
minutely  written  down  by  E-uy  Gonsalez  de  Clavijo 
from  May,  1403,  when  it  started,  to  March,  1406,  when 
it  returned.  In  the  report  he  describes  the  city  of 
Constantinople  which  the  ambassadors  pjassed  througli 
when  it  was  at  the  height  of  its  tottering  greatness. 


PEESONAL  ACCOUNTS  559 

An  incidedit  recorded  is  very  quaint;  These  fifteenth 
century  public  servants,  extremely  human  and  not  at 
all  unlike  our  modern  ones,  were  desirous  when  off  on . 
special  business  not  only  to  serve  their  government 
well  but  also  to  do  as  much  sight-seeing  on  their  own 
account  as  possible.  Hence  they  haunted  the  churches 
and  other  places  of  relics.  But  one  day  they  failed  to 
see  all  they  wished  to  in  the  church  of  San  Juan  de  la 
Piedra,  and  for  the  following  reason,  bless  you!  **The 
Emperor  went  to  hunt,  and  left  the  keys  with  the 
Empress  his  wife,  and  when  she  gave  them  she  iorgot 
to  give  those  where  the  said  relics  were,  etc.,  etc." 
Delicious  episode!  Exactly  the  essence  of  this  type  of 
narrative.  It  makes  one  suspect  that  despite  all  the 
pompous  history  that  has  been  got  together  about  them 
the  kings  and  queens  of  old  were  really  human  beinga 
But  Clavijo  was  writing  a  journal  as  .well  as  a  diary, 
for  he  tells  us  of  bigger  things.  Ho  and  his  two  friends 
go  on  to  Samarcand  and  find  the  great  Conqueror  and 
experience  his  lavish  hospitality  in  a  series  of  magnifi- 
cent festivals,  but,  strange  to  say,  witness  also  his 
death ;  at  least  he  dies  when  they  are  at  his  court,  and 
Clavijo  tells  of  the  troubles  the  embassy  had  therefore 
in  getting  ready  to  return.  Argote  de  Molina,  in  1582, 
a  hundred  and  seventy-six  years  later,  wrote  a  dis- 
courso  upon  Clavijo  and  got  out  the  first  public  edition 
of  this  journal,  which,  for  the  sake  of  sales  probably, 
he  called  '*The  Life  of  the  Great  Tamerlane,"  a  thing 
it  was  not,  but  only  partly.  Marlowe  wrote  his  '*Tam- 
buTlane"  in  1586  or  1587.  He  might  well  have  seen 
Clavijd's  journal. 

Diary  is  for  the  most  part  more  intimate,  more 


560  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

private  than  journal,  though  a  diary  need  not  neces- 
sarily be  private.  In  fact  a  writer  of  such  a  record 
Ckeat  Bometknes  hands  it  about  among  his  friends 

diaxieB  — that  is,  part  of  it.  Othei?  parts  he  invariably 
keeps  to  himself,  either  never  to  be  read  by  another  or 
to  be  read  only  after  the  writer  has  ceased  to  live  or 
has  ceased  to  care  about  the  effect  of  his  words.  The 
astoundingly  frank  and  intimate  diary  of  the  famous 
Samuel  Pepys,  kept  vup  by  him  through  the  first  nine 
years  of  the  Restoration;,  has  only  just  now  reached  its 
complete  publication.  Details  at  first  suj^ressed  for 
one  reason  or  another  have,  as  they  have  been  made 
public  from  time  to  time,  gradually  changed  the 
world's  conception  of  ,the  character  of  this  bustling 
servant  of  the  crown.  And  net  strange  to  say;  for  a 
diary  of  all  forms  of  writing  is  the  most  revealing. 
John  Evelyn,  the  friend  and  patron  of  Pepys,  wrote 
himself  down  no  less  surely  a  non-genius  than  Pepys 
wrote  himself  a  genius.  They  both,  however,  give  us, 
in  addition  to  a  knowledge  c^  their  personal  affairs, 
invaluable  pictures  of  the  men  and  doings^  of  their  day. 
Fanny  Burney^s  '* Diary,''  egotistical  and  minute,  but 
one  of  the  great  books  of  literature,  is  a  gallery  of 
portraits  of  the  late  eighteenth  century,  celebrities — 
King  George  and  Queen  Charlotte,  Reynolds,  Burke, 
Dr.  Johnson,  Mrs.  Thrale,  Garrick^  and  many  others — 
all  her  friends.  Gideon  Welles 's  *' Diary,"  which 
appeared  in  the  Atlantic  Monthly  during  1909-10, 
though,  like  that  of  Pepys,  an  accoiint  of  public  mat- 
ters, was,  like  that  of  Pepys,  a  private  account  not 
meant  to  be  seen  at  the  time.    All  these  records  have 


PERSONAL  ACCOUNTS  561 

their  value  for  late  readers  in  their  honesty  and 
minuteness.  It  is  on  such  revelations  that  we  depend 
for  our  correct  conception  of  by-gone  affairs. 

A  diary  or  a  journal,  then,  is  first  of  all  a  narrative 
of  real  events.  Fiction  in  this  form,  like  Defoe 'a 
''Journal  of  the  Plague"  or  the  diary  parts  of  Charles 
Readers  ** Cloister  and  the  Hearth,*'  is  so  for  the  sake 
of  the  verisimilitude. 

If  you  wish  to  write  a  journal,  you  might  imagine 
yourself  sending  it  across  the  ocean  to  some  relative  or 
acquaintance  who  cares  to  know  about  the  writing 
doings  of  you  yourself,  your  family,  your  tlwtype 
friends,  your  community.  You  may  reflect  your  own 
sentiments  and  those  of  others;  you  may  give  anec* 
dotes,  eye-witness  accounts,  reports,  hear-says,  inci- 
dents, opinions,  explanations,  and  bare  facts.  You  may 
touch  upon  your  pleasures,  your  joys,  and  even  your 
troubles;  but  your  vexations  and  regrets  you  would 
surely  reserve  for  your  diary. 

If  you  write  a  diary,  you  should  be  frank  and  abso- 
lutely natural.  Any  playing  to  the  gallery  is  a  denial 
of  the  whole' tone  of  diary.  You  may  be  ever  so  selfish 
and  egotistical,  or  ever  so  trivial  and  vain,  if  you  are 
only  honest.  If  we  feel  that  you  are  recording  exactly 
what  you  think,  revealing  exactly  what  is,  we  shall 
read  you  with  delight,  so  seldom  do€«  one  man  get  at 
the  real  thought  of  another.  You  may  even  be  pious — 
a  most  severe  trial  on  a  reader's  interefift— and  we  will 
follow  you  so  long  as  you  are  sincere. 


56^  TYPES  OF  PKOSE  NARRATIVES 

\a        EztractQ  from  Diary  of  Samuel  Pepys 

November,  1661. 

3d.  (Lord'p  day.)  At  night  my  wife  and  I  had  a 
go6d  supper  by  ourselves  of  a  pullet  hashed,  which 
pleased  me  much  to  see  my  condition  come  to  allow  our- 
selves a  dish  like  that. 

4th.  With  my  wife  to  the  opera,  where. we  saw  *'The 
Bondman,''  which  of  old  we  both  did  so  doate  on,  and  do 
still,  though  to  both  our  thinking  not  so  well  acted  here, 
having  too  great  expectations,  d&  formerly  at  Salisbury 
Court.  But  for  Betterton,  he  is  called  by  us  both  the 
best  actor  in  the  world. 

5th*  To  the  Dolphin,  where  Armiger  and  I  and  Cap- 
taine  Cocke  sat  late  and  drank  much,  seeing  the  boys  in 
the  streets  flying  their  crackers.  This  day  beiixg  kept  all 
day  very  strictly  in  the  city. 

7th.  I  met  with  letters  at  home  frpm.  my  Lord  at 
Lisbon,  which  speak  of  his  being  wpU,  and  be  tells  me  he 
had  seen  at  the  court  there,  the  day  before  he  wrote  this 
letter,  the  Juego  de  Tore  (bullfight)*  Peg  Kite  now 
hath  declared  she  will  have  the  b^garly  rogue  the 
weaver,  and  so  we  are  resolved  neither  to  meddle  nor 
make  with  her. 

8th.  This  morning  up  early,  and  to  my  Lord  Chan- 
cellor's, with  a  letter  to  him  from  my  Lord,  and  did 
speak  with  him,  and  he  did  ask  me  whether  I  was  son 
to  Mr.  Talbot  Pepys  or  no  (with  whom  he  was  once 
acquainted  in  the  Court  of  Requests),  and  spoke  to  me 
with  great  respect.  To  the  Sunne  in  New  Fish  Street, 
where  Sir  J.  Minnes,  Sir  William  Batten  and  we  all 
were  to  dine,  and  by  discourse  found  Sir  J.  Minnes  a 
^ne  gentleman  and  a  very  good  schoUer. 


PEBSONAIi  ACCOUNTS  SOS 

9th.  With  m^  Ladjr  all  th^  aftdnloon.  My  Lady  did 
mightily  urge  me  to  lay  out  money  upon  my  wife,  which 
I  perceived  was  a  littld  more  earnest  than  ordinary,  and 
go  I  seemed  to  be  pleased  with,  it^  and  do  resolve  to  be- 
stow a  laoe  on  her. 

10th.  (Lord's  day.)  At  St.  Gregory's,  where  I  heard 
our  Queem  Katherine  the  fiitst.time  by  name  publicly 
prayed  for.  Attd  heard  Dr,  Buck  upon  **  Woe  unto  thee, 
Gorazin,"  &c,,  where  he  started  a  difficulty,  which  he 
left  to  another  time  to  answer,  about  why  God  should 
givje  means  of  grace  to  those  people  which  he  knew  would 
not  recdve  them,  and  d&ay  to  others,  which  he  himself 
coBifesses,  if  they  had  had  them,  would  have  received 
them  and  they  would  have  been  eflfeetual,  too.  I  would 
I  Qould  hear  him. explain  this  when  he  do  come  to  it. 

11th.  Captain  Ferrers  carried  me  the  first  time  that 
ever  I  saw  any  gaming-house,  to  one,  entering  into  Lin- 
colne's  Inn  Fields,  at  the  end  of  Bell  Yard,  where 
sttmnge  the  folly  of  men  to  lay  and  lose,  much  money, 
and  very  glad  I  was  to  see  the  manner  of  a  gamester's 
life,  which  I  see  is  very  miserable  and  poor  and  unmanly. 
And  thence  he  took  me  to  a  dancing  school  in  Fleet 
Streete,  where  we  saw  a  company  of  pretty  gii^ls  dance, 
but  I  do  BLOt  in  myself  like  to  have  young  girls  exposed 
to  so  much  vanity.  So  to  the  Wardrobe,  where  I  found 
my  Lady  had  agreed  upon  a  lace  for  my  wife  at  £6, 
which  I  seemed  much  glad  of  that  it  was  no  more,  tho 
in.  my  mind  I  think  it  too  much,  and  I  pray  God  to  keep 
me  so  to  order  myself  and  my  wife's  expenses  that  no  in- 
convenience in  purse  or  honour  follow  my  prodigality* 

''Diary  and    Correspondence    of   Samuel    Pepys,"   4    volumes. 
(David  McKay.     188&.    Philadelphia.) 


N 


664  TYPteS  OP  PBOSB  NARBATIVES 

A  Diaxy  of  Four  Days 

Feb.  5,  Saturday. 

I  awoke  at  6  o'clock.  It  has  becom6  my  habit  not  to 
get  up  earlier  than  half  past  6  on  racation  days.  After 
breakfast  I  went  to  the  physics  laboratory  to  make  up 
my  back  work. 

The  first  experiment  that  I  tried  to  perform  was 
about  Atwood's  Machine.  I  was  not  half  thru  when 
the  string  broke*  Not  being  able  to  find  another,  I  went 
to  the  office  to  see  whether  I  had  a  letter  or  not.  I  was 
very  glad  to  receive  one,  for  it  was  from  home.  I  was 
very  much  disappointed,  however,  to  hear  that  my 
mother  was  sick.  My  father  asked  me  to  go  and  see  Dr. 
Bautista,  so  after  dinner  I  went  to  Santa  €ru2.  The 
office  was  closed  when  I  reached  it.  At  last  the  doctor 
came.  I  had  a  long  talk  with  him  about  the  sickness  of 
my  mother.  He  gave  me  the  formula  of  the  medicine 
which  my  mother  should  take  and  told  me  the  dose. 
After  giving  him  five  pesos  I  went  away  and  bought  the 
medicine.  I  stayed  in  the  Escolta  till  it  was  dark,  look- 
ing for  some  one  who  was  going  to  our  town.  Not  being 
able  to  find  anybody,  I  have  come  back  to  my  boarding- 
house  with  the  determination  to  go  home  myself  and  take 
mother's  medicine.  I  must  study  my  lesson  in  physics, 
however,  before  I  go  to  bed. 

Feb.  6,  Sunday. 

At  about  €  o'dock  this  morning  I  was  in  the  railroad 
station.  At  6  sharp  the  train  left  for  San  Isidro.  I  was 
very  lonely  in  the  oar,  for  the  passengers  were  few. 
There  were  six  Chinamen  and  a  few  Filipinos.  While 
the  train  was  going  on  I  kept  myself  busy  reading  my 
textbook  in  chemistry.     I  reached  the  station  of  San 


PERSONAL  ACCOUNTS  566 

Isidro  at  10  o'clock.  It  was  about  11  when  I  reached 
home.  I  was  very  glad  to  find  my  mother  better  then. 
•  I  ate  my  dinner  with  all  the  members  of  our  family. 
After  staying  at  home  for  about  two  hours  I  started  for 
San  Isidro  with  my  brother.  I  was  delayed  at  the  ferry, 
for  a  company  of  American  soldiers  was  using  the  banca. 
I  reached  the  station  at  about  2  o'clock,  and  as  the  train 
would  not  leave  for  an  hour,  I  went  to  the  cook-pit  near- 
by. It  so  happened  that  they  were  having  a  surtada. 
This  is  the  first  time  I  have  entered  a  cock-pit  since  1904. 

At  3  o'clock  the  train  came,  t  reached  Manila  at  8 
o'clock.  It  is  now  9 :30.  I  am  going  to  bed  earlier  than 
usuftl,  fox  I  am  very  tired. 

P«b.  7,  Monday. 

I  went  to  school  as  nsual  this  morning,  thon^  I  did 
not  recite  my  lessons  very  well.  This  evening  I  attended 
the  Harty  Club.  We  were  few  in  number,  so  Father 
Finnegan,  our  director,  took  us  with  him  to  the  observa- 
tory. All  of  us  had  a  chance  to  look  at  the  moon.  Thru 
the  telescope  the  moon  looked  like  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
with  black  spots.  The  astronomer  said  that  the  black 
spots  are  craters  of  volcanoes.  The  moon  when  seen 
thru  the  telescope  is  not  so  beautiful  as  when  you  look' 
at  it  with  the  naked  eye. 

The  astronomer,  who  was  a  Spanish  priest,  explained 
the  way  the  moon  gets  its  light.  He  could  speak  English 
very  well,  but  his  pronunciation  was  bad.  He  pro- 
nounced "'sun,''  ^*soon,"  and  ''top,''  '*tawp."  There 
were  many  other  words  which  he  did  not  pronounce  very 
well,  but  he  used  these  t^o  so  often  that  they  were  im- 
pressed on  my  mind.  Another  word  he  used  very  often 
was  "extremities." 


566  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NABBATIVES 

When  you  asked  this  fat  man  a  question,  he  would 
laugh  at  you  if  what  you  asked  was  not  sensible.  Lava 
asked  him  what  planets  are  inhabited.  He  laughed  with- 
out ceasing  for  about  two  minutes,  and  then  said,  ^'Why, 
my  boy,  none  except  ourg.  If  any  planet  is  inhabited, 
the  people  must  be  very  differ«Qt  from  us.'* 

It  was  8  o'clock  when  we  went  home.  Tomorrow  is 
a  laboratory  day,  so  I  am  going  to  bed,  for  I  have  no 
lesson  to  prepare  except  in  Engli^. 

Feb.  8,  Tuesday. 

I  was  awakened  from  a  sound  sleep  by  a  dreadful 
dream.  When  I  opened  my  eyes  it  was  daylight.  My 
dream  was  about  Halley's  comet.  We  talked  so  much 
about  this  thing  last  night  that  it  came  into  my  dream. 
I  thought  it  was  the  19th  of  May.  My  mother  roused 
me,  for  they  could  see  something  beautiful.  When  I 
looked  out  I  saw  that  it  was  Halley's  comet.  I  tried  to 
explain  to  them  what  it  was,  but  I  was  interrupted  in 
my  explanation  because  I  perceived  that  the  comet  was 
coming  nearer  to  us.  We  were  obliged  to  leave  the  house, 
for  the  comet  was  coming  directly  toward  us.  When 
we  were  out  of  the  house  the  comet  struck  it.  It  was  set 
on  fire.  We  tried  our  best  to  quench  the  flames,  but  in 
vain.  While  the  house  was  burning  I  awoke.  I  was  very 
glad  that  I  awoke,  for  my  lesson  in  English  was  not  yet 
prepared. 

I  recited  my  lessons  as  usual.  This  afternoon  Mr. 
Bulatao  and  I  visited  the  observatory  again.  Our  guide 
showed  all  the  pieces  of  apparatus  to  us.  From  the  top 
of  the  building  I  had  a  very  fine  general  view  of  Manila 
After  our  visit  I  came  home,  and  now  I  am  going  to 
tudy  my  lessons.  — Facundo  Esquivel. 


PERSONAL  ACCOUNTS  567 

''Sometliing  Doing*' 
A  JOUBNAL:  MOCK  EEBOIC 

Thursday,  March  17,  1910. — My  friend  Protasio  and 
I  went  to  one  of  the  fairs  in  the  Tondo  chureh-yard  to 
buy  an  awit  for  the  instructor  in  English.  On  our  way 
home  we  met  a  group  of  gentlemen,  eight  of  them,  among 
whom  I  recognized  one  of  my  schoolmates,  Pedro  Pineda. 
My  companion  looked  Pedro  squarely  in  the  face,  but 
this  one  came  up  to  us,  with  arms  akimbo,  and  presently 
addressed  my  companion  in  this  manner:  '^What  do  you 
want?  Why  do  you  look  at  meT'  ''Is  there  any  cause 
for  which  you  speak  to  me  thus?''  answered  my  com^ 
panion.  ''Why?  What  do  you  want?  Let  us  have  a 
boxing  match!" 

I  did  my  best  to  make  my  acquaintances  desist  from 
their  plan,  but  my  efforts  were  in  vain.  Protasio  took 
off  his  diamond  ring  and  handed  it  to  me.  I  put  it  on 
the  upper  part  of  my  right  thumb,  suspecting  nothing 
from  the  companions  of  Pedro. 

In  the  dark  this  unworthy  fellow  thrust  his  hands 
into  his  big  pocket,  and  by  the  dim  light  of  the  evening 
star  I  noticed  him  put  on  iron  knuckles.  Mad  with  rage, 
I  shouted,  "Take  off  your — T'  but  hardly  had  I  begun 
when  just  above  my  left  ear  fell  a  terrible  blow.  I  felt 
no  pain,  but  the  stroke  deafened  me.  Still  I  lost  no  time 
mustering  my  courage,  and  no  sooner  had  I  summoned 
my  latent  forces  than  I  stood  with  my  back  against  the 
church-yard  fence.  Confronted  by  four  young  men,  one 
of  whom  was  the  sturdy  machinist  who  delivered  me  the 
first  blow,  I  raised  my  right  arm  to  ward  off  another 
dreadful  box  in  the  face,  when,  to  my  surprise,  I  heard 
the  crash  of  an  iron  rod.    The  cane  which  I  had  with  me 


568  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NABBATIVES 

had  done  its  duty;  when  I  was  about  to  receive  a  blow 
more  serious  than  the  first,  up  rose  my  hand  and  with 
an  impulse  it  hit  hard  the  right  shoulder  of  my  sturdy 
opponent.  Overjoyed  at  this  incident  I  caused  my  bent 
cane  to  swing  back  and  forth  until  my  four  opponents, 
realizing  that  I  had  an  iron  cane,  ran  away  as  fast  as 
their  legs  could  carry  them. 

Protasio  received  several  wounds  from  the  iron 
knuckles — one  on  the  right  arm,  two  on  the  head  and  one 
just  above  the  left  ear.  Breathless  and  bloody,  I  heard 
him  utter  the  cry,  ''What!  Four  people  to  one?"  The 
people  at  the  fair  overheard  the  tumult;  they  rushed  to 
the  scene  and  saw  us  two,  one  bloody,  the  other  holding 
a  bent  cane,  safe  and  sound.  But  our  good  opx>Ofnents 
had  run  away,  carrying  with  them  my  friend's  new 
haliwag  hat. 

**Pie!  Cowards!''  roared  my  companion,  as  we 
turned  around  the  narrow  street  beside  the  church. 
**  Why  did  those  folks  fight  with  us  four  to  one  ?" 

**W-ell,  although  they  have  made  a  serious  mistake, 
Tasid,"  I  remarked,  **you  cannot  blame  them;  you  will 
know  the  cause  when  you  study  the  psychology  of  a 
mob." 

He  found  no  word  with  which  to  answer  me;  his 
right  arm  he  could  hardly  raisiB,  and  the  blood  streamed 
in  great  quantities  from  the  back  of  his  head.  I  con- 
ducted him  to  his  house  and  told  hitn  not  to  go  to  school 
for  two  days.  For  my  part,  I  felt  nothing  particularly 
painful  except  two  things — ^a  swelling  on  my  forehead 
and  the  bruised  place  on  my  face  where  I  received  that 
blow  without  notice. 

Friday,  March  18. — This  morning  I  went  to  school, 


PERSONAL  ACCOUNTS  569 

and,  although  I  was  tired  from  last  night's  piagilistic 
contest,  I  worked  at  the  of&ce  of  the  English  department. 
But  in  the  midst  of  my  meditations  on  a  perplexing  mis- 
take which  a  second-year  student  had  made  in  his  short- 
story  theme,  upon  my  shoulders  fell  two  han<Js.  X  looked 
up,  rather  amazed  at  the  sudden  9/ttaek,  but  I  saw  Mr. 
Fansler's  familiar  face.  ''Ready,  Viotar!''  said  he. 
''Ready  for  the  banquet,  do  you  memiV*  "No,, to  meet 
Mr.  Beattie.''  . 

1  remembered  I  had  to  go  with  several  people  on  a 
launch  to  meet.  Mr.  Beattiie,  who  had  returned  from  a 
visit  to  the  States.  I  put  on  my  hwni<AL  hat,  with  a 
minutC'^man's  start,  and  ran  down  the  flight  of  steps  of 
the  Normal  School  building. 

Gathered  around  the  portico  were  the  superintendent 
of  the  Normal  School,  the  representatives  of  the  faculty 
and  the  representatives  of  the  various  classes.  Mr. 
Fansler  and  I  joined  the  cheerful  group,  three^fifths  of. 
which  consisted  of  blooming  femininity.  As  we  walked 
along  the  acacia  grove  we  felt  no  heat,  but  on  the  open 
road,  where  fell  the  blistering  sun's  rays,  the  women 
lagged.  "They  feel  the  heat,  to  be  siu-e!"  I  said  to 
myself.  "These  women  at  the  Normal,  I  suppose,  are 
not  used  to  heat.  Tender  and  fresh,  they  have  little  or 
no  exercise." 

But  necessity  was  to  compel  them  to  run  a  short  race 
that  day.  The  buz»  of  the  street  car  wire  along  Calle 
Real  made  them  walk  faster,  and  finally  they  really 
began  to  run;  as  lightly  as  doves,  however.  The  car 
took  us  down  to  Plaza  de  Magallanes,  back  of  the  Treas- 
ury building,  but  we  did  not  find  our  launch  there* 

As  I  walked  along  the  edge  of  the  Pasig  Riv^r  bank, 


670  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

I  noticed  a  small,  booth4ike  hut,  in  which  I  saw  an  old 
•  woman  seated  on  a  stool.  She  held  in  her  right  hand  a 
bunch  of  perforated  banana  leaves,  with  which  she  drove 
away  the  flies  that  tried  to  alight  on  the  rice  and  fried 
fish.  Presently  a  man  came,  ate  his  ten-centavo  meal  of 
rice  and  a  half  fish,  and  departed  after  the  manner  of  a 
Frenchman.  But  soon  I  saw  my  companions  going  on 
board  the  launch  and  I  followed  them. 

The  boat  was  not  very  big ;  it  had  just  enough  room 
to  accommodate  the  young  women  and  to  allow  the  fel- 
lows to  sit  contiguously  on  the  sides.  All  at  once  the 
launch  began  sailing  down  the  smooth  river  and  within 
ten  minutes  we  had  passed  around  Engineer  Island. 

Out  in  the  bay  the  billows  rose.  The  foam  began  to 
appear  in  greater  quantities  as  we  sailed  farther  and 
farther  into  the  sea.  The  boat  swung  to  and  fro  as  she 
courtesied  to  the  waves.  But  upon  looking  round,  I  dis- 
covered that  some  of  the  young  ladies  were  seasick.  I 
was  trying  to  reason  out  the  cause  of  this  malady  when 
all  of  a  sudden  a  spray  of  salt  water  threw  itself  directly 
at  my  face  and  my  tongue  felt  the  Uquid. 

*' What  a  nasty  taste  salt  water  has !''  I  exclaimed,  as 
I  tried  to  suppress  with  an  effort  the  sudden  change  in 
my  stomach. 

**How  do  you  like  it,  Yamizonf  asked  fat  Memije, 
the  spherical  student  of  the  Academy.  Without  waiting 
for  an  answer,  ** That's  good!  The  water  will  make  yon 
fat.  Should  you  like  to  know  how  I  got  fat?''  continued 
he,  whom  I  always  compare  to  a  sponge  because  of  his 
capacity  for  imbibing  water  in  great  quantities.  **  Yes," 
I  muttered,  ungraciously.  **Well,  I  drink  four  glasses 
of  water  before  meals  and  after  meals."    **But  not  salt 


PERSONAL  ACCX)UNT8  57I 

water/'  I  rejoined.    **No,  no;  fresh  water  is  what  you 
need." 

Jnst  then  we  spied  the  Tean,  which  was  bringing 
back  Mr.  Beattie.  As  we  approached  we  saw  a  man  who 
was  so  much  like  him  that  the  ample  instructor  of  the 
correspondence  department  exclaimed  in  her  not  too 
melodious  and  high-pitched  voice,  ** There's  our  dear  old 
superintendent ! ' ' 

**He's  no  longer  your  dear  old  superintendent/* 
thought  I. 

Fifteen  minutes  passed,  and  Mr.  Beattie  showed  no 
signs  of  eTQT  having  come  back.  But  when  the  ship- 
master appeared  on  the  upper  deck  he  told  us  Mr. 
Beattie  would  soon  be  ready  to  show  his  face  to  us.  And 
he  was.  We  cheered  him  and  hailed  him;  hats  were 
taken  oflf ;  handkerchiefs  waved  in  the  air ;  and  the  for- 
mer superintendent  of  the  Normal  School  responded  to 
us,  while  a  twelve-inch  smile  beamed  on  his  countenance. 

Saturday,  March  19,  1910. — ^My  short  trip  yesterday 
reminded  me  of  our  voyage  to  Lucena  last  Thanksgiving. 
The  first  thing  I  did  immediately  after  breaking-my- 
fast  was  to  go  to  my  desk  and  take  out  from  the  lowest 
case  the  account  of  this  trip  which  I  wrote  while  we 
were  sailing.  I  have  read  the  thing  throu^  and  I  will 
gladly  repeat  it  for  you.    It  begins  thus : 

**0n  Thanksgiving  afternoon  the  Normal  debating 
team,  on  board  of  the  steamer  Lal-Loc,  set  out  for 
Lucena.'* — There!  I  can't  write  it  for  you  now.  My 
brother  is  calling  me.  But  I'll  just  say  we  won  the  de- 
bate and  had  a  glorious  time. 

— ^Vietoriano  Yamzon. 


TYPES  OP  PBOSE  NABBATIVES 
570  ^^'"^  ^  .    „y,,„v.  I  saw  an  old 

I  noticed  a  small,  bootWike  hu^  -  -\^^  ^.^^^  W  a 

•  woman  seated  on  «/««^;,^f  ^Ivrwith  wlxicU  sbe  drove 
bunch  of  perforated  banana  ^^v^,      ^^  ^.  ^^  3^^  fned 

away  the  flies  that  tned  *o  '^^f  ^.^  ^^^.^^^avo  n.eal  « 
fish.  Presently  a  man  f  «^«' ^' \fter  the  xaaixner  of  a 
Hee  and  a  ^l^^^::^tZT^t^^^o.^  .oin.  . 
Sr  lan^e^  a^d  X  ^o-ed  ^^  ^,  _„,,  . 
The  boat  was  not  very  big,  it  na    j  ^^^  t,V 

to  accommodate  the  young  wmnen^f  to  ^^  ^^  ^^^,  ^, 
lows  to  sit  contiguously  on  the  «  ^^^^  ^^^  ^tbm 
launch  began  sailing  down  the  s  ^^^  i^^nd. 

ten  minutes  we  had  passed  around  ^  ^^  ^^^^  ^^g^  ^ 
Out  in  the  bay  the  billows  i^se^  ^^^ber  an-^ 

appear  in  greater  q«-"*^*f  ^f^Jl^to  ^^d  fro  a«*e 
fJrVr  into  the  s.a.     ^^^^^^^l^:Z^^^^  ---^.  i^, 
Gourtesied  to  the  waves.    But  iip  ^^.^^  ^^asM*.  J 

covered  that  some  of  the  y«™^ J^^^^  tHi«  i^alady  ^-J 
was  trying  to  reason  ^V^^^^i^AhreW  itseU  dlT*»i 
all  of  a  sudden  a  spray  ot  ^'^^^^'f.     ^.  ^^5.  I 

at  mv  fa«e  and  my  tougne  *«^\^^;,  J„.  i  ox«l»»«'-^ 

-mHt  a  nasty  taste  salt  water  m  ■  ^^^^ 

I  tried  to  suppress  with  an  effort  the  «u 

mystomnch  yamzont"  nBke3  (^ 

"How  do  you  like  it|    ^  *^^  .^lin-f 
the  spherical  stxi<H 
for  an  snswerf  *  "" 
fat.    Sboald^ 
he,  whom 
capacity  fq 
I  muffcrt 
of  Waaler  J 


^at, 


iie 


S:? 


PERSONAL  ACCOUNTS 
Rejoined.    *'No,  no;  fresh  water  is  what 


^    Aen  ^g  spied  the  Tean,  which  was  brii 
^         ^vj   >L     ^^^^^®-    As  we  approached  we  saw  a  man 

.  j^  ^^^t>o^^^^  ^^^^  ^^^  ***^*  *^^  ample  instructor  o 
^Io(jj^  ^dence  department  exclaimed  in  her  no1 
^^^iv^J^®  find  high-pitched  voice,  ''There's  our  dea 

*-j^\«tident!" 
^U^j^ .    ^   no  longer  your  dear  old   superintend( 

^^^^1^    O:^^^  niinutes  passed,  and  Mr.  Beattie  showe 
^     ^*^^*        ^^QT  having  come  back.     But  when  the 
H^  ^^^i^  .^^Peared  on  the  upper  deck  he  told  us 
t^l^       ^s.       ^^d  soon  be  ready  to  show  his  face  to  us. 
^*^^:^        ^i3?.  ?/^  cheered  him  and  hailed  him;  hats 
^-    -   f  ^l:>e>^ .   ^ndterchiefs  waved  in  the  air ;  and  the 


indent  of  the  Normal  Scliool  responds 

**^fj   ^'^h'0-ii:i<5h  smile  betimed  on  his  counten 

^^^    ^^^^  iL^'  Uai-ali   19,  1 910.— My  short  trip  yeste 


H.  ^fonJ*  voyage  to  Lueena  last  Thanksgi 

^    di^    immediately  after  breaking 

desk  and  take  out  from  the  Ic 

is    trip  wliieh  T  wrote  whiL 

acl  the  thing  tlirough  and  I 

It  begins  thus: 

^mm  the  Normal  deba 
r  Lal'Loe,  set    out 
te  it  for  you  now. 
just  my  we  won  the 


— VJctoriano  Yamzon. 


572  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NABRATIVES 

n.    Autobiography  and  Memoirs 

Although  the  words  ** autobiography''  and  *' mem- 
oirs'' are  often  used  interchangeably,  the  meanings 
differ  somewhat  as  journal  and  diary ;  that 
between^"  is,  a**  autobiography  is  always  written  to  be 
antoblog*  read  by  a  public,  lajrge  or  small;  memoirs 
mlSolrs^  are  sometimes  secret,  like  those  of  Mirabeau 
when  on  his  mission  to  Prussia.  The  two 
forms  are  both,  however,  personal  accounts  by  the 
writer  of  his  own  doings  and' sayings  as  well  as  of  the 
doings  and  sayings  of  others  conneeted  with  him  in  the 
same  events. 

Gibbon  has  used  the  word  memoirs  as  a  title  for 
what  we  generally  call  his  autobiograpfhy ;  but  critics 
consider  the  term  ** memoirs"  strictly  as  signifying  a 
record  of  events  put  down  within  a  limited  time  in  the 
author's  life— or  a  record  of  important  events  that  he 
can  ''remember/'  selected  out  of  a  long  life.  Memoirs 
in  the  first  sense  are  usually  written  by  persons  of  large 
affairs,  like  Prince  yon  Metternich  in.  the  French- 
Austrian  erisift,  or  Mme.  de  StaarHolstein  during  her 
ten  years  of  exile,  or  the  Italian  poet  Silvio  Pellico 
\irhile  serving  hie  decade  of  imprisonment  for  taking 
part  in  the  Carbonari  movements.  Many  of  the  writers 
other  than  English  seem  to  try  to  exclude  the  personal 
element  from  memoirs;  though  Catherine  II  of  Russia 
in  her  account  of  her  life  as  Grand  Duchess  is  straight- 
forward and  intimate  enough.  Frederick  the  Great, 
too,  in  his  memoirs  of  his  military  and  political  cam- 
paigns has  succeeded  in  delineating  quite  exactly  his 
own  character  as  conceived  of  by  others ;  while  Charles 


PEKSONAL  ACXDOUNTS  573 

V  in  his  ''AutobiograpMcal  Leaves"  (which  are 
memoirs)  has  revealed  to  the  world  an  entirely  new 
side  of  himself. 

Autobiography  is  more  extended  than  memoirs. 
This  ''self -life-writing"  runs  from  the  birthday  of  the 
author  to  the  time  of  the  composition  jof  the  ^^11^,^1 
narrative.  Details  are  sometim.es  many,  Franklin 
sometimes  few,  according  to  the  taste  and  w^^^tl^®" 
leisure  of  the  recorder,  but  the  account  is  always  com- 
plete and  unified.  One  of  the  ^eatest  autobiograx^ies 
written  is  that  of  Ben venfuto. Cellini,  a  Florentine  artist 
of  the  sixteenth  century.  Men  lived  intense  and  violent 
lives  in  those  days,  fervidly  de.voted  to  ideals  and 
grossly  material  at  the  same  time.  Oellini  epitomizes 
them  all.  His  narrative  is  an  Italian  clasde.  A  most 
entertaining  English  autobiography  is  Colley  Gibber's 
** Apology  for  My  Life."  Actor  and  dramatist,  he  too 
had  much  to  tell.  But  the  American  philosopher  and 
statesman,  Benjamin  Franklin,  has  carried  oS  the  prize 
for  widespread  popularity  and  readableness.  The  story 
goes,  whether  true  or  not,  that  his  ''Autobiography" 
has  been  translated  into  more  languages  than  any  other 
book  except  the  Bible,  The  narrative  is  full  of  shrewd 
common-sense  and  practical  example.  Our  fathers  used 
to  say  that  no  one  is  a  true  American  who  has  not  read 
it.  What  is  of  value  to  us  now  in  the  consideration  of 
it  is  its  simplicity  both  in  diction  and  tooie.  Franklin 
was  truly  a  very  great  man,  and  nowhere  greater  than 
in  his  unpretentious  honesty. 

Like  a  diary,  an  autobiography  should  be  most 
genuine  and  original  in  content.  Sometimes  the 
impulse  to  record  one's  life  goes  even  so  far  as  to  take 


674  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

the  form  of  confessions,  like  those  of  the  great  Latin 
father,  St.  Augustine.  Our  own  English  ecclesiastic, 
Cardinal  Newman,  defended  himself  and  his  faith  in 
his  ''Apologia."  But  this  that  ought  to  be  the  truest 
of  the  true  forms  very  easily  becomes  forced  and  hectic, 
like  Rousseau's.  Though  a  man  must  be  honest,  there 
is  no  need  for  him  to  tell  everyone  of  his  inmost 
thoughts,  or  mention  all  his  meannesses.  De  Quincey's 
''Confessions  of  an  English  Opium  Eater''  long  ago 
justified  itself  by  its  high  tone,  and  by  the  fact  that  it 
became  the  basis  of  his  "Autobiography.'' 

It  is  easy  to  start  an  autobiography.    Most  writers 
begin  with  their  birth  and  parentage.  To  proceed  after 
the  first  few  pages  is  not  so  easy  perhaps, 
poStstb      because  of  the  possibilities.    What  to  choose 
be  Ob-  is  the  question ;  for  everybody  has  had  more 

writtDir^  experiences  than  he  could  possibly  record. 
Apt  selection  is  what  makes  a  good  life  his- 
tory— selection  under  a  governing  sense  of  unity  and 
progression.  Moreover,  a  writer  of  any  chronical  story 
should  carefully  arrange  the  transitions.  Good  includ- 
ing phrases  both  backward  and  forward-looking  should 
be  used,  as  well  as  precise  small  conjunctions.  Such 
sets  as  Cellini  has,  "At  this  moment  the  whole  world 
was,  etc.,"  "I  am  now  making  a  great  leap  forward 
when  I  tell,"  "Continuing  as  I  did  my  artillery  prac- 
tice for  a  whole  month,"  "In  the  meantime  I  had,"  *'I 
must  not  forget  to  give  some  indication  of  how  large 
the  figure  was,  a  thing  which  1  can  best  do  by  telling 
you  a  very  laughable  occurrence,"  "The  more  I  longed 
for  rest  the  more  did  troubles  spring  up,"  "Before  this 
I  should  have  told  of  my  friendship  with,  etc."    The 


PEESONAL  ACCOUNTS  575 

diction  of  memoirs  is  somewhat  determined  by  circum- 
stances and  subject ;  but  if  you  write  an  autobiography, 
you  should  see  to  it  that  your  words  and  conjstructions 
are  unmistakably  simple.  Be  as  modest  as  is  consistent 
with  your  great  deeds,  and  as  cheerful  as  the  fates  will 
allow.  If  you  make  yourself  out  a  good  fellow,  do  so 
by  the  general  impression  of  your  narrative,  not  by 
assertion.  Set  before  the  reader  enough  of  your  actions 
and  he  will  tabulate  your  character  for  you.  Your 
business  is  to  relate ;  his,  to  judge.  You  may,  however, 
disclose  some  of  your  motives.  The  only  difficulty  here 
is,  that  people  may  not  believe  you,  or  you  may  not 
have  understood  yourself  at  the  time.  Whatever  else 
you  do,  be  sure  to  let  us  see  a  human  being  like  our- 
selves, not  some  impossible  creature  made  out  of  paper 
and  ink.  If  you  care  for  an  outline,  it  would  noiybe 
amiss  to  follow  that  prepared  for  biography. 

The  Life  of  David  Hume,  Esq.,  Written  by  Himself 

It  is  difficult  for  a  man  to  speak  long  of  himself  with-" 
out  vanity;  therefore,  I  shall  be  short.  It  may  be 
thought  an  instance  of  vanity  that  I  pretend  at  all  to 
write  my  life ;  but  this^narrative  shall  contain  little  more 
than  the  history  of  my  writings ;  as  indeed  almost  all  my 
life  has  been  spent  in  literary  pursuits  and  occupations. 
The  first  success  of  most  of  my  writings  was  not  such  as 
to  be  an  object  of  vanity. 

I  was  bom  the  twenty-sixth  of  April,  1711,  old  style, 
at  Edinburgh.  I  was  of  a  good  family,  both  by  father 
and  mother:  my  father's  family  is  a  branch  of  the  Earl 
of  Home's,  or  Hume's;  and  my  ancestors  had  been  pro- 
prietors of  the  estate  which  my  brother  possesses^  for 


576  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NABBATIVES 

several  generations.  My  mother  was  daughter  of  Sir 
David  Falconer,  president  of  the  college  of  justice;  the 
title  of  Lord  Halkerton  came  by  succession  to  her 
brother. 

My  family,  however,  was  not  rich,  and  being  myself 
a  younger  brother,  my  patrimony,  according  to  the  mode 
of  my  country,  was,  of  course,  very  slender.  My  father, 
who  passed  for  a  man  of  parts,  died  when  I  was  an  in- 
fant, leaving  me,  with  an  elder  brother  and  a  sister, 
under  the  care  of  our  mother,  a  woman  of  singular  merit, 
who,  though  young  and  handsome,  devoted  herself  en- 
tirely to  the  rearing  and  educating  of  her  children.  I 
passed  through  the  ordinary  course  of  education  with 
success,  and  was  seized  very  early  with  a  passion  for 
literature,  which  has  been  the  ruling  passion  of  my  life 
and  the  great  source  of  my  enjoyments.  My  studious 
disposition,  my  sobriety  and  my  industry  gave  my  fam- 
ily a  notion  that  the  law  was  the  proper  profession  for 
me;  but  I  found  an  insurmountable  aversion  to  every- 
thing but  the  pursuits  of  philosophy  and  general  learn- 
ing, and  while  they  fancied  I  was  poring  upon  Voet  and 
Vinnius,  Cicero  and  Virgil  were  tJae  authors  I  was 
secretly  devouring.  / 

My  very  slender  fortune,  however,  being  unsuitable 
to  this  plan  of  life,  and  my  health  being  a  little  broken 
by  my  ardent  application,  I  was  tempted,  or  rather 
forced,  to  make  a  very  feeble  trial  for  entering  into  a 
more  active,  scene  of  life.  In  1734  I  went  to  Bristol  with 
some  recommendations  to  several  eminent  merchants,  but 
in  a  few  months  found  that  scene  totally  imsuitable  to 
me.  I  went  over  to  Prance  with  a  view  of  prosecutiug 
my  studies  in  a  country  retreat,  and  I  there  laid  that 


PEBSONAL  ACCOUNTS  577 

plan  of  life  which  I  have  steadily  and  successfully  pur- 
sued. I  resolved  to  make  a  very  rigid  frugality  supply 
my  deficiency  of  fortune,  to  maintain  unimpaired  my 
independency,  and  to  regard  every  object  as  con- 
temptible except  the  improvement  of  my  talents  in 
literature. 

During  my  retreat  in  Prance,  first  at  Kheims,  but 
chiefly  at  La  Fletche,  in  Anjou,  I  composed  my  Treatise- 
of  Human  Nature.  After  passing  three  years  very 
agreeably  in  that  country,  I  came  over  to  London  in 
1737.  In  the  end'  of  1788  I  published  my  treatise,  and 
immediately  went  down  to  my  mother  and  my  brother, 
who  lived  at  his  country  house  and  was  employing  him- 
self very  judiciously  and  sueoessfully  in  the  improve- 
ment of  his  fortune. 

Never  literary  attempt  was  more  unfortunate  than 
my  Treatise  of  Human  Nature.  It  fell  dead-born  from 
the  press,  without  reaching  such  distinction  as  even  to 
excite  a  murmui*  among^  the  zealots.  But  being  naturally 
of  a  cheerful  and  sanguine  temper,  I  very  soon  recovered 
the  blow  and  prosecuted  with  great  ardor  my  studies  in 
the  country.  In  1742  I  printed  at  Edinburgh  the  first 
part  of  my  Essays.  The  work  was  favorably  received 
and  soon  made  me  entirely  forget  my  former  disappoint- 
ment. I  continued  with  my  mother  and  brother  in  the 
country,  and  in  that  time  recovered  the  knowledge-  of' 
the  Greek  language,  which  I  had  too  much  neglected  in 
my  early  life. 

In  1745  I  received  a  letter  from  the  Marquis  of  An- 
nandale,  inviting  me  to  come  and  live  with  him  in  Eng- 
land; I  found  also  that  the  friends  and  family  of  that 
young  nobleman  were  desirous  of  putting  him  under  my 


578  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NABRATIVES 

care  and  direction,  for  the  state  of  bis  mind  and  health 
required  it.  I  lived  with  him  a  twelve-month,  ^ly  ap- 
pointments during  that  time  made  a  considerable  acces- 
sion to  my  small  fortune.  I  then  received  an  invitation 
from  General  St.  Clair  to  attend  him  as  a  secretary  to 
his  expedition,  which  was  at  first  meant  against  Canada, 
but  ended  in  an  incursion  on  the  coast  of  France.  Next 
year,  to  wit,  1747,  I  received  an  invitation  from  the 
general  to  attend  him  in  the  same  station  in  his  military 
embassy  to  the  courts  of  Vienna  and  Turin.  I  then  wore 
the  uniform  of  an  oflScer  and  was  introduced  at  these 
courts  as  aide-de-camp  to  the  general,  along  with  Sir 
Harry  Erkine  and  Captain  Grant,  now  General  Grant. 
These  two  years  were  almost  the  only  interruptions 
which  my  studies  have  received  during  the  course  of  my 
life :  I  passed  them  agreeably  and  in  good  company ;  and 
my  appointments,  with  my  frugality,  had  made  me  reach 
a  fortune  which  I  called  independent,  the  most  of  my 
friends  were  inclined  to  smile  when  I  said  so :  in  short, 
I  was  now  master  of  near  a  thousand  pounds. 

I  had  always  entertained  a  notion  that  my  want  of 
success  in  publishing  the  Treatise  of  Human  Nature  had 
proceeded  more  from  the  manner  than  the  matter,  and 
that  I  had  been  guilty  of  a  very  usual  indiscretion  in 
going  to  the  press  too  early.  I,  therefore,  cast  the  first 
part  of  the  work  anew  in  the  Inquiry  concerning  Human 
Understanding  while  I  was  at  Turin.  But  this  piece  was 
at  first  little  more  successful  than  the  Treatise  of  Human 
Nature.  On  my  return  from  Italy  I  had  the  mortifica- 
tion to  find  all  England  in  a  ferment  on  account  of  Dr. 
Middleton's  Free  Inquiry,  while  my  performance  was 
entirely  overlooked  and  neglected.    A  new  edition,  which 


PERSONAL  ACCOUNTS  579 

had  been  published  at  London,  of  my  EJssays,  moral  and 
political,  met  not  with  a  much  better  reception. 

Such  is  the  force  of  natural  temper  that  these  dis- 
appointments made  little  or  no  impression  on  me.     I 
went  down,  in  1749,  and  lived  two  years  with  my  brother 
at  his  country  house,  for  my  mother  was  now  dead.    I 
there  composed  the  second  part  of  my  Essay,  which  I 
called  Political  Discourses,  and  also  my  Inquiry  concern- 
ing the  Principles  of  Morals,  which  is  another  part  of 
my  Treatise  that  I  cast  anew.    Meanwhile  iny  bookseller, 
A.  Millar,  informed  me  that  my  former  publications  (all 
but  the  unfortunate  Treatise)  were  beginning  to  be  the 
subject  of  conversation ;  that  the  sale  of  them  was  gradu- 
ally increasing  and  that  new  editions  were  demanded. 
Answers  by  reverends  and  right  reverends  came  out  two 
or  three  in  a  year,  and  I  found  by  Dr.  "Warburton's  rail- 
ing that  the  books  were  beginning  to  be  esteemed  in  good  i 
company.    However,  I  had  fixed  a  resolution,  which  l( 
inflexibly  maintained^  never  to  reply  to  anybody,  and  not  | 
being  very  irascible  in  my  temper,  I  have  easily  kept ' 
myself  dear  of  all  literary  squabbles.    These  symptoms 
of  a  rising  reputation  gave  me  encouragement,  as  I  was  ^ 
ever  more  disposed  to  see  the  favorable  than  unfavorable 
side  of  things,  a  turn  of  mind  which  it  is  mt)re  happy  to 
possess  than  to  be  bom  to  an  estate  of  ten  thousand  a 
year. 

In  1751  I  removed  from  the  country  to  the  town,  the 
true  scene  for  a  man  of  letters.  In  1752  were  published 
at  Edinburgh,  where  I  then  lived,  my  Political  Dis* 
courses,  the  only  work  of  mine  that  was  successful  on  its 
first  publication.  It  was  well  received  at  home  and 
abroad.    In  the  same  year  was  published  at  London  my 


582  TYPES  OP  PfiOSB ' KAKHATIVES 

me  to  make  in  the  reigns  6f  the  two*  first  Stuarts,  I  have 
made  all  of  them  invfllriably  on  the  Tory  side.  It  is 
ridiculous  to  consider  the  English  constitution  before 
that  period  as  a  regular  plan  of  liberty* 

In  1759,  I  publiish^fed  my  history  of  the  house  of 
Tudor.  The  clamor  against  thii  x>erf ormanc^  was  almost 
equal  to  that  against  the  history  of  the  two  first  Stuarts. 
The  reign  of  Elizabeth  was  particularly  obnoxious.  But 
I  was  now  callous  against  the  impressions  of  public  folly 
and  continued  very  peaceably  and  contentedly,  in  my 
retreat  at  Edinburgh,  to  finish  in  two  volumes  the  more 
early  part  of  the  English  history,  which  I  gave  to  the 
public  in  1761  with  tolerable^  and  but  tolerable,  suceess. 

But,  notwithstanding  this  variety  of  winds  and  sea- 
sons, to  which  my  writings  had  been  exposed,  they  had 
still  been  making  such  advances  that  the  copy  money 
given  me  by  the  book-sellers  mueh  exceeded  anything 
formerly  known  in  England ;  I  was  become  not  only  in- 
dependent but  opulent »  I  retired  to  my  native  country 
of  Scotland,  determined  never  more  to  set  my  foot  out 
of  it ;  and  retaining  the  satisfidfCtion  of  never  having  pre- 
ferred a  request  to  one  great'  man  or  ever  making  ad- 
vances of  friendfehip  to  any  of  tbeim.  As  I  was  now 
turned  of  fifty,  I  thought  of  passing  all  the  rest  of  my 
life  in  this  philosophical  manner,  when  I  received,  in 
1763,  an  invitation  from  the  earl  of  Hertford,  with 
whom  I  was  not  in  the  least  acquainted,  to  attend  him 
on  his  embassy  to  Paris,  with  a  near  prospect  of  being 
appointed  secretary  to  the  eftibaasy,  aiid  in  the  mean- 
while of  performing  the  functions  of  that  oflBce.  This 
offer,  however  inviting,  I  at  first  declined;  both  because 
I  Was  reluctant  to  begin  connections  with  the  great,  and 


PBBSONAIx  ACCOimTSt  383 

because  I  was  afraid  that  the  civilities  ai3ld  gay  eompJaiiy 
of  Paris  would  prove  disaigreeable  to  a  p^iraon  pf  my.age 
and  buiiior ;  but  •  on  his  lordship 's  repeating  the :  invita- 
tion  I  accepted  of  it.  I  have  eveiry  r^asoin,  both  df:  pleas- 
ure and  interesty.tb  think  myself  happy  in  my  ;eomiec- 
ti6ns  with  that  ntibleman,  as  well  as  afterwards  wjth.  his. 
brother,  General  Conway.  ?'  - 

Those  who  have  not  seen:  the  sti^ange  e£^eicts  of  modei^ 
will  never  imagine  the  rece'ption  I  met  with  at  Paris, 
from  m«a  aiid  women  of  all  ratiksi  and.sjbatioriJSk.  Th^ 
more' I  recoiled  from  their  excessite.  civilities,  the  more  I 
was  loaded  with  them.  There  is,  howetejr,  a  .real  satis- 
faction in  living  at  Paris,  frOnk' the:. gr^ati  number  t)f 
sensible,  knbwing  and  polite  company  ^with  which  that 
city  abotmds  above  allplafees  in  the  imiYei?se*  ,1  thought 
once  of  settling  there  for  life.  I 

I  was  appointed  secretary  to  the  "embassy^  and  in 
summei^,  1765,  liord  Hertford,  left  me,  b^ing  .appointed 
loi:d  lieuteniant  of  Ireland.  I  ifm  chargi.d'^fft^r'es  till 
the  arrival  of  the  Dukei.of  Ridkimond,  toWjards.  the  wd  of 
the  year.  In  the  bifeginnitg'of  176€  J  telfe  Paris,,  and 
next  summer  went  to  Edinburgh,  with  the  same  view  as 
formerly  of  burying  myself  in  a  phil(>sophical  retreat. 
I  returned' to  that  place;  not  rich  btitwitb  mwhwm.(wee 
money,  and  a  muob  larger  income  by  mieaiis  of  X40i:d 
Hertford's  friendship,  than  I. left: it;  and  I  was  desirous 
of  trying  what  supetfluity  could  produce^  asJ  had  for^ 
merly  made  an  experimjent  of  ^a  i  ^omp^enoy.;  iBut  .in 
1767  I  received  irom  Mr.  Conway  an  imitation  t<>  bej  an 
undersecretary,  and' this  invitation  bath  Uie  character,  of 
the  person  and  my  connections  with  Lord  Hertford  pr^T 
vented  me  from  declining.    I  retumied  t^  Edinburgh  in 


584  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NAKBATIVES 

1769,  very  cptileiit  (for  I  possegsed  a  revenne  of  one 
thousand  pounds  a  year),  healthy  and,  though  somewhat 
stricken  in  years,  with  the  prospect  of  enjo3dng  long  my 
ease  and  of  seeing  the  increase  of  my  reputation. 

In  spring,  1775,  I  was  struck  with  a  disorder  of  the 
bowelSj  which  at  first  occasioned  no  alarm,  but  has  since, 
as  I  apprehended  it,  become  mortal  and  incurable.  I 
now  reckon  upon  a  speedy  dissolution.  I  have  suffered 
very  little  pain  from  my  disorder,  and,  what  is  more 
strange,  have,  notwithstanding  the  great  decline  of  my 
person,  never  suffered  a  moment's  abatement  of  my 
spirits;  insomuch  that  were  I  to  name  a  period  of  my 
life  which  I  should  most  choose  to  pass  over  again,  I 
might  be  tempted  to  point  to  this  later  period.  I  possess 
the  same  ardor  as  ever  in  study  and  the  same  gayety  in 
company.  I  consider,  besides,  that  a  man  of  sixty-five, 
by  dying  cuts  off  only  a  few  years  of  infirmities;  and 
though  I  see  many  symptoms  of  my  literary  reputation's 
breaking  out  at  last  with  additional  luster,  I  know  that 
I  could  have  but  few  years  to  enjoy  it.  It  is  difficult  to 
be  more  detached  from  life  than  I  am  at  the  present 
time. 

To  conclude  historically  with  my  own  character:  I 
am,  or  rather  was  (for  that  is  the  style  I  must  now  use 
in  speaking  of  myself,  which  emboldens  me  the  more  to 
speak  my  sentiments) ;  I  was,  I  say,  a  man  of  mild  dis- 
position, of  command  of  temper,  of  an  open,  social  and 
cheerful  humor,  capable  of  attachment,  but  little  sns- 
ceptibte  of  enmity,  and  of  great  moderation  in  all  my 
passions.  Even  my  love  of  literary  fame,  my  ruling 
passion,  never  soured  my  temper,  notwithstanding  my 
freiquent  disappointments.     My  company  was  not  un- 


PEB80NAL  ACCOUNTS  585 

acceptable  to  the  young  and  careless,  as  well  as  to  the 
studious  and  literary ;  and  as  I  took  a  partidular  pleas- 
ure in  the  company  of  modest  wom^i,  I  had  no  reason 
to  be  displeased  with  the  reception  I  met  with  from  them. 
In  a  word,  though  most  men  anywise  eminent  have 
found  reason  to  complain  of  Calumny,  I  never  was 
touched  or  even  attacked  by  her  baleful  tooth;  and 
though  I  want-only  exposed  myself  to  the  rage  of  both 
civil  and  religious  factions,  they  seemed  to  be  disarmed 
in  my  behalf  of  their  wonted  fury.  My  friends  never 
had  occasion  to  vindicate  any  one  cireamstance  of  my 
character  and  conduct ;  not  but  that  the  zealots,  we  may 
well  suppose,  would  havie  been  glad  to  invent  and  propa- 
gate any  story  to  my  disadvantage,  but  they  ocmld  never 
find  any  which  they  thought  would  wear  the  faoe  of 
probability.  I  cannot  say  that  there  is  no  vanity  in 
making  this  funeral  oration  of  myself,  but  I  hope  it  is 
not  a  misplaced  one,  and  this  is  a  matter  of  fact  which  is 
easily  cleared  and  ascertained. 
April  18,  1776. 

Autoblogn^phy 

I  was  bom  on  the  twentieth  of  December  in  the  year 
1887,  in  Gkipan,  province  of  Nueva  Eoija. 

My  mother,  Manuela  Tinio,  died  when  I  was  but  two 
years  of  age,  and  I  was  kft  to  the  oare  of  my  beloved 
grandfather,  Esteban  Tinio,  uncle  Quintin  Tinio  and  my 
aunts  Paula  and  Felipa  Tinio.  I  had  two  brothers  and 
three  sisters,  but  all  of  them  died  except  one  of  my 
brothers,  Valentin,  who  is  now  attending  the  Philippine 
Medical  School.  My  uncle  Valentin  was  one  of  the 
active  leaders  of  the  revolutionary  movement  in  Nueva 


586  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NABBATIVES 

Kcija.  He  bore  a  deadly  hatred  against  the  Spaniards. 
On  several  occasions  secret  meetings  were  held  in  our 
house  shortly  before  the  uprising  of  the  people.  When 
the  revolution  broke  out  unexpectedly  in  1896  he  was 
forced  to  flee  to  the  mountain,  where  he  was  captured 
afterwards,  and  was  finally  shot.  My  grandfather  died 
in  1903  in  his  eighty-^ninth  year,  and  thus  I  was  left  to 
the  care  of  my  father,  Francisco  Guanio,.  and  my  two 
aunts,  Paula  and  Felipa,  who  are  still  unmarried.  Altho 
my  aunts  are  over  sixty  years  of  age,  yet  they  are  still 
strong,  active  and  diligent  women.  They  have  never 
wasted  their  time  in  idleness,  and  are  always  at  work 
from  morning  till  night.  To  them  who  are  more  than 
mothers  to  me  I  owe  my  present  education. 

I  was  boom  in  the  most  extraotdinary  i)eriod  of 
Philippine,  history*  I  lived  to  see  the  days  when  our 
fathers  were  struggling  hard  against  Spain.  During  my 
boyhood  I  saw  men  imprisoned,  exiled  and  executed  for 
no  offense  whatever.  I  have  heard  the  voice  of  the  op- 
pressed people  crying  for  justice.  I  have  seen  men,  rich 
and  poor,  wise  and  ignorant,  fighting  for  the  common 
cause  of  the  Filipinos  people.  '  I  witnessed  one  of  the 
fierce  attacks  of  our  patriots  upon  the  Spanish  regiment 
at  Gapan.  Wh^n  J  was  twelve  years  old  many  towns 
were  entirely  depopulated;  churches,  and  sehoolhouses 
converted  into  hospitals;  men  and  wdmen  impelled  by 
fear  to,  flee  from  their  homes  with  their  children.  I  once 
enjoyed  seeing-  the  humiliating  r^ce-distinction  effaced. 
Early  one  morning  I  was  awakened  from. my  sleep  by 
the  loUd?  boosining  of  cannon  and  by  the  shouting  of  the 
once  happy  and  satisfied  people,,  inaugurating  the  short- 
lived Philippine  -■  republic.    .  These  pfest' « events  changed 


PERSONAL  ACCOUNTS  587 

my  gentle  nature  entirisly.  It  has  been  my  ambition 
ever  since  to  make  the  most  of  myself  for  my  country's 
sake.  '    ' 

I  attended  the  public  school  at  Gapan  in  1894.  Here 
I  learned  the  alphabet  and  catechism.  At'  that  time 
Spanish  was  taught  in  nearly  all  the  schools  of  the 
Islands.  The  sudden  otitbreak  of  the  reyolution  of  1896 
brought  about  the  closing  of  the  schools  for  a  short  time. 
And  altho-  they  were  soon  reopened,  yet  there  was  not 
the  same  enthusiasm  for;  leaminig  among  the  great  mass 
of  students  as  had  been  previously  shown.  They  at- 
tended. scfai>ols!  simply  because  they  were  compelled  to 
do  so  by  the  government  (for  education  was  oompulsouy 
under  the  Spanish  administration  in  these  IMands).  In 
1898  I  attended  school  very  irregularly  on  aecbunt  of  the 
revolution.  Then  in  the  beginning  of  the  year  1899 
schocds  were  closed  on  account  of  the  troubles  which  the 
Filipinos  had  had  with  the  Americans,  and  eonsequently 
I  bad  tbistay  at  home  ;f  or  two  years.  In  October,  1901, 
I  entered  the  Gapan  Intermediate  School,  which  wa$ 
th^niimderthe  superviidon  of  an  American  teacher.  On 
January  1,  1904^.  I  left. the  school  of  Gapan  and  at- 
tended the  S.  Isidro  High  School.  In  June,  190S,  I 
was  transferred  to  the  Philippine  Normal- School,*  where 
I  have  stayed  since' then.    ■ 

My  uncle  Quintin's  plan  was  to  make  me  a  lawyer, 
but  his  unexpected :  death  prevented  his  desire.  My 
father  and  my  two  aunts,  Paula  and  Felipa,  allowed  me 
to  pursue  hny>  course  I  liked.  It  is  their  wish  to  give 
me  a  good  and  thorough  education. 

My  own  plan  is  different  from  that  of  my  uncle  Quin-r 
tin.    I  desire  to  complete  the  high  school  course  first, 


egg  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

then  the  college  course,  and  finish  with  the  engineering 
course. 

— ^Domingo  T.  Guanio. 

Wliat  I  Remem1)er  of  the  Coming  of  tlie  Americans 

In  the  afternoon  of  November  15,/ 1900,  while  I  was 
at  a  small  private  school  conducted  by  on  edneated 
woman,  the  wife  of  the  colonel  in  Ponctono's  army,  one 
of  my  classmates  called  my  attention  to  the  running  of 
men  and  women  up  and  down  the  street. 

**What  is  the  matter?  Why  are  those  people  run- 
ning f"  asked  our  teacher  of  her  husband^  who  was  then 
entering  the  gate. 

**They  say  there  is  a  casco  of  rice  in  Laguna  de'Bay. 
I  do  not  know  what  kind  of  casco  it  is;  it  has  a  flag. 
Send  all  the  children  home,"  said  the  colonel. 

**The  class  is  dismissed,'*  said  our  teacher  to  us. 

She  had  scarcely  spoken  these  words  when  we 
jumped  to  our  feet  find  ran  as  fast  as  we  oould  to  our 
homes. 

*'Have  you  not  seen  your  father?  Where  is  he!" 
said  my  mother  as  soon  as  she  caught  sight  of  me.  I 
looked  back  and  saw  my  father  coming. 

**Here  he  comes,*'  I  said  to  my  mother. 

**  Prepare  yourself,  Leopoldo.  We  will  go  to  the 
mountain,"  said  my  mother. 

'*Why?  There  is  a  casco  of  rice  coming,**  I  an- 
swered. 

^*No,  that  is  not  a  casco  of  rice.  ■  If  that  is  a  casco 
of  rice,  the  people  on  the  beach  wouldn't  run  away  to 
the  mountain.  Get  yourself  ready,  quick,"  replied  my 
mother. 


PBBSONAL  ACCOUNTS  589 

•  It  was  a  cloudy  aftemoon.  The  wii^d  blew  hard. 
Nothing  could  be  heard  but  the  moaning  of  the  wind  on 
the  trees  and  houses,  the  running  of  men  and  women 
along  the  streets  and  the  crying  of  babies.  The  streetiS 
were  full  of  people,  all  running  in  the  same  direction. 
Some  oarried  trunks  on  their  heads,  others  had  bundles 
of  clothes  on  their  backs.  Some  carried  infants  in  their 
arms,  orHhers  had  them  on  their  hips.  The  little  boys  and 
girls  ran  beside  their  parents.  It  was  indeed  a  piteous 
sight ! 

While  my  father  and  mother  were  busy  putting  our 
things  in  a  carreton  I  was  going  up  and  down  the  stairs 
every  ten  mixuatas.  I  did  not  know  what  to  do.  When 
I  was  upstairs  I  wanted  to  go  downstairs.  When  I  was 
downstairs  I  wanted  to  go  up.  I  wished  to  carry  with 
me  my  shoes  foecaiisel  knew  I  needed  them  on  the  moun- 
tain. But  I  also  wanted  to  carry  my  black  coat.  At  last 
I  thought  of  the  bread  that  my  mother  had  bought  that 
morning.  I  took  it  all.  Just  then  my  father  and  mother 
had  put  our  trunks. in  the  carreton.  We  all  got  into  the  , 
carretoil — my  father^  my  mother,  my  little  brother,  my 
sister,  and  myself.  My  fath^  Was  the  driver.  We  left 
our  home,  our  minds  full  of  the  gloomiest  forebodings. 

We  had  not  gone  very  far  from  the  town  when  we 
heard  per-r-rrok-rok-pook-pook-pook-pok — ^bung. 

**  Jesus,  Maria,  y  Josep !''  ^^xclaimed  my  mother. 

We  all  looked  at  each  other  speechless.    At  a  distance 
we  heard  a  cry, ''A^actt/ wonay  CO." 

'^Perhaps  a  bullet  struck  that  man,"  I  said  to  my<^ 
self. 

In  a  fe^r  minutes  we  arrived  at  the  Lecheria  hill.    It 
was  already  dark.    There  wate  a  moon,  but  it  was  hidden 


590  TYPES  OP  PBOSB  NARRATIVES 

behind  the  clouds.  At  the  bottom  of  the  hill  was  a  large 
house  made  of  nipa  and  bamboo.  The  house  was  very 
dark.  When  we  came  to  it  a. voice  inside  said,  *' Who  is 
that?    Anicetot'^' 

"Yes,"  answered  my  father. 

**Why  are  you  late?  Have  yon  eaten  your  supper?" 
asked  the  voice. 

**No,  but  we  have  to  go  now.  The  bullets  will  reach 
us  here.  We  can  eat  our  supper  in  the  carreton/'  re- 
plied my  father. 

All  the  people  in  the  house  silently  went  down  to  the 
ground.  They  got  into  their  carts  and  we  b^an  our 
journey.  There  were  four  vehicles  in  all.  One  was 
loaded  with  rice.  Uncle  Paulino  and  his  family  were  in 
one*  The  other  one  was  occupied  by  Grandniother 
Tereza  and  her  four  mns.  We  traveled  over  low  hills 
and  valleys  beneath  the  outspreading  br&nches  of  the 
wild  trees  and  over  thick  Co<^n  grasses.  The  moon 
had  gained  full  brightness  but  the  night  was  cold. 
.  After  I  had  eaten  my  supper  I  fell  asleep.  My  mother 
wrapped  me  in  her  blanket.  When  I  awoke  I  fonnd 
that  we  were  in  Pasdng  Caiabaw.  It  was  fo'iir  o -dock  in 
the  morning.    We  had  been  traveling  all  night. 

— ^Leopoldo  Faustino. 

ni.    Biography 

With  Johnson's  ** Lives  of  the  Poets"  biography  in 
England  took  on  a  literary  quality!  Before  that  time 
such  work  had  been  perfunctory  and  had  been  done 
by  hack  writers;  but  with  the  appearance :of  ihe  **Life 
of  Savage"   (1744),  says  Macanlay,  a  new  era  began. 


PERSONAL  ACCOUNTS  551. 

*^Th€  little  wort  with  all  its  faialts  was  a: masterpiece*. 
No.  finer  speeiioaen  of  literary  biogriaphy  existed  in  aoiy' 
language  living  or  dead.  The  discerjiing 
critic  might  confidently  have  predicted  that  ^^^^  ' 
the  author  was  deaftined  to  be  the:  founder,  land  of  ■ 
•  of  a  new  school  of  Baglish  eloquence, ' '  And  ^J^^pHy 
he  was,  Thirtytthr.ee  years  later,  after  he 
had  become  famous,;  a  company  of  bookns^llers  called 
on  Dr;  John^oni.to  add  to  the  **Life  of  SavageV.  a 
series  of  biographical  prefaces  for  an  edition  of  ilm 
poets  from  Cowley.  dowliwArds,  Althoiigk  intending  at 
firfet  to  write  only  a  few  short  paragraphs^  this ;  great 
and  good  telker  let  himself  run  ojl  until  he  handed  W^i; 
to  the  publishers: ten  volumes — somewhat  short  vohimes 
to  be  sure,  hut  a  fine  pi^oerof  work,  and  mpst  o|.it  very 
precious.  Erom  that  time  on,  no  .:biQgmph#r.  wha 
expeoted  to  be  read  dared  be  uninteresting. .  PrejUi*. 
dicefd  in  .tfernj>eram:ent  h€i:  Imigbt  be,:  mistakein.:  some- 
times, but  :heneefcfrth  he  ;3patiBt  prjQve  himself,  lively, 
vigioroufB, :  f aithfial^  i pen^etrating,  saga<^iofaS)  warm,  yet 
discriminating  in  -pfTfiise,  reluaonahle  in.  cen^tire,  fearless 
in  judgmei;it8^  and:  fresh'  aootd, et^act  in  •  et?:pr(gMion.  The 
model  had  been  AqU  The'  thing  had  ibeen.  done  nOt<  for 
dne  poet,  but. for  ina»y^  BiK)gtapby;was  nofw  a  Jiterary 
type,  to'be writttow^ith  earebya  qualif^edip^rsonr-  It 
is  worthy  of  note " that  tho  original. .typi^  waa.shott; 

Since  iJohnsott's  day-  English  literature  ha^.  gained^ 
through  biography  some  of  the. best  bookfii  in  the^  world* 
Bosweirs  *^Li^0  Of;Jo^ii3tson"  ajud  l^o^kh^-rt'p  orfeatbiog- 
*  *  Life  r  of .  Scott '  '■  are  ito  be;  30r  iyankedi  -I^pck- '  tap  wt^in 
hart  did  also  a  snperfine  example  :of  the^^^^^  ■'> 
shortiform;  a 'biQgraphical.efketeh  of  Tbeod0re.Hopj5:i, 


594  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NARRATIVES 

you  know — a  iQaii  or  woman  of  attainment  in  yonr  own 
neighborhood.  Do  the  eharaoter^sketching  with  care. 
Be  crisp  and  original  in  attiu^k.  The  outline  given 
below  is  a  skeleton  which  you  must  hide  with  a  pleas- 
ing exterior.  But  do  not  forget  to. put  the  heart  and 
lungs  in  him.,  E:tact  and  full  information  is  the.  motor 
power  of  a  living  biography. 

Oudine  for  a  Life 

I.    Birth :  place  and  date-— country,  city>  epoch. 

Nationality  of,  parents  and  noteworthy  facts 
eonneoted  with  the.  family.  , 
IL    Boyhood' and  early  education; 

Disposition  an4  temperament  displayed  by  the 
youth.  - . 

.  His  (Bhi^f  interesjtsjihpbbies,  . 
,  Anecdotes  about  the  boy:  both  true  ^nd  only 
.    typical 
Primary  and  secondary  schooling;  at  private 
or  public  institutions, 
in.   .Later  education  aJid  the  choice  of, a  career: 
.College  life. 
.    .  ,£[is  family's  plan  for  his  profession  or  career. 
His  own  plan. 

Cirwjnstances  infli^encing  the  ultimate  chpice. 
SuoCjess  resulting  from  the  choice.: 
Intellectual  and  personal. 
Financial  and  worldly  * 
Final  prof ^sional  training. 
Travel. 
IV.    Family  and  domestic  life:  marriag^e, . children. 
Influence  of  wife  apd  children. on  his  success. 


PEBSOJ^AI*  ACCOUNTS  595 

Anecdotes  and  particular  instances  to  illus- 
teate  personality  and  character. 
Y.    Friends  and  enemies:  names,  professions,   and 
influence. 
VI.    Accomplishment  and  title  to  fame: 

His  rank  in  his  own  nation  and  the  world. 
,  Hii^  especial  cbaracteristies  as   displayed  in 

style  and  subject-matter. 
His  masterpieces:  something  of  their  content* 

Qneen  Gbxltftina 
(Bom  1626.    Died  1689.) 

In  the  royal  palace  at  Stockholm,  the  capital  city  of 
Sweden,  there  wa,s  born,  in  1626,  a  little  princess.  The 
king,  her  father,  gave  her  the  name  of  Christina,  in 
memory  of  a  Swedish  girl  with  whom  he  had  been  in 
love.  His  own  name  was  Oustavus  Ado^hus,  and  be 
was  also  called  the  Lion  of  the  North,  because  he  had 
gained  greater  fame  in  war  than  any  other  prince  or 
general  then  alive*  With  thi^  valiant  king  for  their 
commander^  the.Sw^de^  bad  made  themselves  terrible  to 
the  Emperor  of  Germany  and  to  the  King  of  France, 
and  were  looked  upon  as  the  chief  defense  of  the  Protest- 
ant religion*         ! 

TJie  little  Christina  was  by  no  means  a  beautiful  child. 
To  confess  the  truth,  she  was  remarkably  plain.  The 
q^een,  l^er  mother,  did  -not,  love  her  so  much  as  she 
ought;  pa,rtly,. perhaps,  on  account  of  Christina's  want 
qf  t]|eau1;y,  and  a]$o  both  the  king  and  queen  had  wished 
for-  a  son,  who  might  have  gained  as  great  renown  in 
battle  as  his  {atlier  hfid. 


596  TYPES  or  PBOSE^  NARRATIVES 

The  king,  however^  soon  became  exeeedin|^y  fond  of 
the  infant  princess.  When  Christina  was  very  young 
she  was  taken  violently  sick.  Qustavns  Adolphxus,  who 
was  several  hundred  miles  from  Stockholm,  traveled 
night  and  day  and  never  rested  until  he  held  the  poor 
child  in  his  arms.  On  her  recovery  be  made  a  solemn 
festival  in  order  to  show  his  joy  to  the  people  of  Sweden 
and  express  his  gratitude  to  Heaven.  After  this  event 
be  took  his  daughter  with  him  in  all  the  journeys  which 
he  made  throughout  his  kingdom. 

Christina  soon  proved  herself  a  bold  and  sturdy  little 
girl.  When  she  was  two  years  old  the  king  and  herself, 
in  the  course  of  a  journey,  came  to  the  strong  fortress 
of  Colmar.  On  the  battlements  were  soldiers  clad  in 
steel  armor,  which  glittered  in  the  isunshine.  There  were 
likewise  great  cannons,  pointing  their  black  mouths  at 
Gustavus  and  little  Christina  and  ready  to  belch  out 
their  smoke  and  thunder;  for,  whenever  a  king  enters  a 
fortress,  it  is  customary  to  receive  him  with  a  royal 
salute  of  artillery. 

But  the  captain  of  the  fortress  met  Gustavus  and 
his  little  daughter  as  they  were  about  to  enter  the 
gateway. 

**May  it  please  your  Majesty, ''  said  he,  taking  off 
his  steel  cap  and  bowing  profoundly,  ''I  fear  that,  if  we 
receive  you  with  a  salute  of  cannon,  the  little  princess 
will  be  frightened  almost  to  death/' 

Gustavus  looked  earnestly  at  his  daughter,  and  was 
indeed  apprehensive  that  the  thunder  of  so  many  cannon 
might  perhaps  throw  her  into  convulaons.  He  had 
almost  a  mind  to  tell  the  captain  to  let  them  enter  the 
fortress  quietly,  as  common  people  might  have  done, 


PEESONAL  ACXX)UN.TS  507 

without  all  this  head-^plittiitg  rachet.  But,  no;  this 
would  not  do. 

**Let  them  fire,"  said  he,  waving  his  hand.  ** Chris- 
tina is  a  soldier's  daughter  and  must  learn  to  bear  the 
noise  of  cannon:'^ 

So  the  captain  uttered  the  word  of  eommand  and  im- 
mediately there  was  a  terrible  peal  of  thunder  from  the 
oannon  and  such  a  gudh  of  smohe  that  it  enveloped  the 
whole  fortress  in  its  volumes.  But  amid  all  the  din  and 
confusion  Christina  was  seen  clapping  her  little  hands 
and  laughing  in  an  ecstasy  of  delight.  Probably  nothing 
ever  pleased  her  father  so  mueh  as  to  see  that  his  daugh- 
ter promised  to  be  fearless  as  himself.  He  determined  to 
educate  her  exactly  as  if  she  had  been  a  boy  and,  to  teach 
her  all  the  knowkdge  needful  tx>  the  ruler  of  a  kingdom 
and  the  commander  of  an  anny. 

But  Ghufltavua  shoxdd  have  remembered  that  Provi- 
djenee  had  created  her  to  be  a  woman,  and  that  it  was 
not  for  him  to  make  a  man  of  her. 

However,  the  Mng  derived  gi^eat  happiness  from  hk 
beloved  Christina.  It  must  have  been  a  pleasant  sight 
to  see  the  powerful  monarch  of  Sweden  playing  in  some 
magnificent  hall  of  the  (Palace  with  his  merry  little  girL 
Then  he  forgot  thait  the  weight  of  a  kingdom  rested  upon 
his  shoulders.  He  forgot  that  the  wise  Chancellor  Oxen- 
stiern  was  waiting  to  consult  with  him  how  to  render 
Sweden  the  greatest  nation  of  Europe.  He  forgot  that 
the  Emperor  of  Germany  and  the  King  of  France  were, 
plotting  together  how  they  might  pull  him  down  from 
his  throne. 

Yes,  Gustavus  forgot  all  the  perils  and  care^  and 
pompous  irksomiMie^s  of  a  royal  life,  and  was,  as. happy 


698  TYPES  .OF  PBOSB  NAERATIVES 

while  playing  with  his  child  as  the  humblest  peasant  in 
the  realm  of  Sweden.  How  gayly  did  they  danoe  along 
the  marble  floor  of  the  palace,  this  valiant  king,  with  his 
upright,  martial  figure,  his  war-worn  visage  and  com- 
manding aspect,  and  the  small,  round  form  of  Christina, 
with  her  rosy  face  of  childish  merriment!  Her  little 
fingers  were  clasped  in  her  father's  hand,  which  had 
held  the  leading  staff  in  many  famous  victories.  His 
crown  and  scepter  were  her  playthings.  She  could  dis- 
arm Gustavus  of  his  sword,  which  was  so  terrible  to  the 
princes  of  Europe. 

But,  alas !  the  king  was  not  long  permitted  to  enjoy 
Christina's  society.  When  she  was  four  years  old  Gus- 
tavus was  summoned  to  take  command  of  the  allied 
armies  of  Germany,  which  Were  fighting  against  the  em- 
peror. His  greatest  affliction  was  the  necessity  of  part- 
ing with  his  child ;  but  people  in  sueh  high  stations  have 
little  opportunity  for  domestic  happiness.  He  called  an 
assembly  of  the  senators  of  Sweden  and  confided  Chris- 
tina to  their  care,  saying  that  each  one  of  them  must  be 
a  father  to  her  if  he  himself  should  fall  in  battle. 

At  the  moment  of  his  departure  Christina  ran 
towards  him  and  began  to  address  him  with  a  speech 
whi<}h  somebody  had  taught  her  for  the  occasion.  Gus- 
tavus was  busied  with  thoughts  about  the  affairs  of  the 
kingdoni,  so  that  he  did  not  immediately  attend  to  the 
childish  voice  of  his  little  girl.  Christina,  who  did  not 
love  to  be  unnoticed,  immediately  stopped  short  and 
pulled  him  by  the  coat. 

** Father,"  said  she,  ''why  do  not  you  listen  to  my 
speech  r' 

In  a  moment  the  king  forgot  everything  except  that 


PJlRSONAXi  AOOOUNTS  599 

he  was  parting  with  what  he  loved  best  in  all  the  world. 
He  caught  the  child  in  his  arms,  pressed  her  to  his 
bosom  and  burst  into  tears.  Yes ;  though  he  was  a  brave 
man,  and  though  he  wore  a  steel  corselet  on  his  breast, 
and  though  armies  were  waiting  for  him  to  lead  them 
to  battle,  still  his  heart  melted  withia  him  and  he  wept. 
Christina,  too,  was  so  afficted  that  her  attendants  began 
to  fear  th^-t  she  would  actually  die  of  grief.  But  prob- 
ably she  was  soon  comforted,  for  children  seldom  remem- 
ber their  parents  quite  so  faithfully  as  their  parents 
remember  them. 

For  two  years  more  Christina  remained  in  the  palace 
at  Stockholm.  The  queen,  her  mother,  had  accotnpfimied 
Gustavus  to  the  wars.  The  child,  therefore,  was  left  to 
the  guardianship  of  five  of  the  wisest  men  an  the  -king- 
dom. But  these  wise  men  knew  better  how  to  manage 
the  weighty  affairs  of  state  than  how  to  govern  and  edu-- 
eate  a  little  girl  so  as  to  render  her  a  good  and  happy 
woman; 

When  two  years  had  passed  away  tidings  were 
brought  to  Stockholm  which  filled  everybody  with  tri- 
umph ftad  aorcow  at  the  same  time.  The  Swedes,  had 
won  a  glorioup  victojry  at  Lutzen.  But,  alas !  the  warlike 
King  of  Sweden,  the  Lion  of  the  North,  the  father  of 
our  little  Christina,  had  been  slain  at  the  foot  of  a  great 
stone,  which  still  marks  the  spot  of  that  hero's  death. 

Spon  after,  this  sad  event  a  general  assembly  or  con- 
gress, :  consisting  of .  deputations  from  the  nobles,  the 
clergy,  the  burghers,  and  the  peasants  of  Sweden,  was 
summoned  to  meet  at  Stockholm.  It  was  for  the  purpose 
of  declaring  little  Christina  to  be  Queen,  of  Sweden  and 
giving  her  the  crown  and  sbepter  of  her  deceased  father.' 


600  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NAKRATIVES 

Silence  being  proolaimed,  the  Chancellor  Oxenstiem 
arose. 

**We  desire  to  know,"  said  he,  ^* whether  the  people 
of  Sweden  will  take  the  daughter  of  our  dead  King 
Gnstavus  Adolphns  to  be  their  queen." 

When  the  chancellor  had  spoken  an  old  man,  with 
white  hair  and  coarse  apparel,  stood  up  in  the  midst  of 
the  assembly.  He  was  a  peasant,  Lars  Larrsom  by  name, 
and  had  spent  most  of  his  life  in  laboring  on  a  farm. 

''Who  is  this  daughter  of  GustavusT"  asked  the  old 
man.    **  We  do  not  know  her.    Let  her  be  shown  to  U8."| 

Then  Christina  was  brought  into  the  hall  and  placed 
before  the  old  peasant.  It  was  strange,  no  doubt,  to  see 
a  child — a  little  girl  of  six  years  old — offered  to  the 
Swedes  as  their  ruler  instead  of  the  brare  kin^,  her 
father,,  who  had  led  them  to  victory  so  many  times. 
Could  her  baby  fingers  wield  a  sword  in  wart  Ooold  her 
childish  mind  govern  the  nation  wisely  in  peace  t 

But  the  Swedes  do  not  appear  to  have  asked  them- 
selves these  questions.  Old  Lars  Larrso^  took  Christina 
up  in  his  arms  and  gazed  earnestly  into  her  face.  He 
had  known  the  great  Gustavus  wiell,  and  lis  heart  was 
touched  w^en  he  saw  the  likeness  which*  the  little  girl 
bore  to  that  heroic  monarch. 

**Yes,"  cried  he,  with  the  tears  giKihing  down  his 
furrowed  cheeks,  "this  is  truly  the  daughter  of  our  Gns- 
tavus! Here  is  her  father's  brow!— here  is  his  piercing 
eye !  She  is  his  very  picture !  This  child  shall  be  our 
queen!" 

Then  all  the  proud  nobles  of  Sweden  and  the  rever- 
end elergy,  and  the  burghers,  and  the  peasants  knelt 
down  at  the  child's  feet  and  kissed  her  hand.      * 


PEBSONAL  ACCOUNTS  601 

"Long  live  Christina,  Queen  of  Sweden!''  shouted 
they. 

Even  after  she  was  a  woman  grown,  Christina,  re- 
membered the  pleasure  whieh  she  felt  in  seeing  all  these 
men  at  her  feet  and  hearing  them  acknowledge  her  as 
their  supreme  ruler.  Poor  child  1  she  was  yet  to  learn 
that  power  does  not  insure  happiness.  As  yet,  however, 
she  had  not  any  real  power.  All  the  publio  husinessi  it 
is  true,  was  transacted  in  her  name;  but  the  kingdom 
was  governed  by  a  number  of  the  most  eicperienced 
statesmen,  who  were  <5alled  a  regency. 

But  it  was  considered  necessary  that  the  little  qu,een 
should  be  present  at  the  public  ceremonies  and  should 
bdiave  just  as  if  she  were  in  reality  the  ruler  of  the 
nation.  When  she  was  seven  years  of .  nge,  some,  am- 
bassacbrs  from  the  Czar  of  Muscovy  came  to  the  Swedish 
court.  They  wore  kmg  beards  and  were  qlad:in  a  strange 
fashion,  with  furs  and  other  outlandish  ornameixts;  and 
as  they,  were  inhabitants  of  a  half-civilized  cpuntry,  they 
did  not  behave  ;like  other  people.  The  Chancellor  Oxen- 
stiem  was  afraid  that  the  young  queen  would  burst  out 
laughing  at  the  first. si^t  of  these  .queer  ambassadors, 
or  dse  that  she  would  be  fri^tened  by  th^eir  unusual 
aspect..         .  ^ 

*  'Why  should  I  be  frightened  ? ' '  said  the  little  queen, 
**And  do  you  suppose  tiiat  I  have  no  better  manners 
than  to  laugh?  Only  tell  me  how  I  must  behave  and  I 
will  do  it.'' 

Accordingly,  the  Muscovite  ambsusaadoits  were  intro-> 
duced,  and  Christina  received  thein  and  answered  their 
speeches  with  as  mudi  dignity  and  propriety  as  if  she 
had  been  a  grown  woman; 


g02  TYPES  OF  PBOSB  NABBATIVES 

All  this  time,  though  Chnfltina  was  now  a  queen,  you 
must  not  suppose  that  she  was  left  to  act  as  she  pleased 
Shfe  had  a  preceptor,  named  John  Mathias,  who  was  a 
very  learned  man  and  capable  of  instructing  her  in  all 
the  branches  of  science.  But  there  was  nobody  to  teach 
her  the  delicate  graces  and  gentle  virtues  of  a  woman. 
She  was  surrounded  almost  entirely  by  men,  and  had 
learned  to  despise  the  society  of  her  own  sex.  At  the 
age  of  nine  years  she  was  separated  from  her  mother, 
I  whom  the  Swedes  did  not  consider  a  proper  person  to  be 
I  intrusted  with  the  charge  of  her.  No  little  girl  who  sits 
by  a  New  England  fireside  has  cause  to  envy  Christina 
in  the  royal  palace  at  Stockholm. 

Yet  she  made  great  progress  in  her  studies.  She 
learned  to  read  the  classical  authors  of  Greece  and  Rome, 
and  became  a  great  admirer  of  the  heroes  and  poets  of 
old  times.  Then  as  for  active  exercises,  she  could  ride 
on  horseback  as  well  as  any  man  in  her  kingdom.  She 
was  fond  of  hunting  and  could  shoot  at  a  mark  with 
wonderful  skill.  But  dancing  was  the  only  feminine  ac- 
complishment with  which  she  had  any  acquaintance. 

She  was  so  restless  in  her  dispositioai  that  none  of  her 
attendants  were  sure  of  a  moment  ^s  quiet  either  day  or 
night.  She  grew  up,  I  am  sorry  to  say,  a  very  unami- 
able  person,  ill-tempered,  proud,  stubborn,  and,  in  short, 
unfit'  to  make  those  around  her  happy  or  to  be  happy 
herself.  Let  every  little  girl  who  has  been  taught  self- 
control  and  a  due  regard  for  the  rights  of  others  tbank 
Heaven  that  she  has  had  better  instruefion  than  this  poor 
little  Queen  of  Sweden. 

At  the  age  of  eighte^en  Christina  was  declared  free  to 
govern  the  kingdom  by  herself  without  the  aid  of  It  re- 


PERSONAL  ACCOUNTS  603 

gency.  At  this  period  of  her  life  she  ^as  a .  young 
woman  of  striking  aspect,  ia  good  figure  and  intelligent, 
face,  but  very  strangely  dressed.  She  wore  a  short  habit 
of  gray  cloth,  with  a  man's  vest  over  it,  and  a  black  scarf 
around  her  neck;  but  no  jewels  nor  ornaments  of  a^ny 
kind. 

Yet,  though  Christina  was  so  negligent  of  her  ap- 
pearance, there  was  something  in  her  air  and  manner 
that  proclaimed  her  as  the  ruler  of  a  kingdom.  Her« 
eyes,  it  is  said,  had  a  very  fierce  and  haughty  look.  Old 
General  Wrangel,  who  had  often  caused  the  enemies  of 
Sweden  to  tremble  in  battle,  actually  trembled  himself 
when  he  encountered  the  eyes  of  the  queen.  But  it 
would  have  been  better  for  Christina  if  she  could  have 
made  people  love  her,  by  means  of  soft  and  gentle  looks, 
instead  of  affrighting  them  by  such  terrible  glances/ 

And  now.  I  have  told  you  almost  all  that  is  amusing 
or  instructive  in  the  childhood  of  Christina.  Only  a 
few  more  words  need  be  said  about  her ;  for  it  ife  neither 
pleasant  nor.  profitable  to  think  of  mamy  things  that 
she  did  after  she  grew  to  be  a  woman. 

When  she.  had  worn  the  crown  a  few  years,  she  be-: 
gan  to  consider  it  beneath  her  dignity  to  be  called  a 
qneen,  becaui^e  the  name  implied  that  she  belonged  td 
the  weaker  sex.  She  therefore  caused  herself  to  be 
proclaimed  King;  thus  declaring  to  the  world  that  she 
despised  her  own  sex  and  was  desirous  of  being  ranked 
among  men.  But  in  the  twenty-eighth  year  of  her  age 
Christina  grew  tired  of  royalty  and  resolved  to  be 
neither  a  king  nor  a  queen  any  longer.  She  took  the 
crown  from  her  head  with  her  own  hands  arid  Ceased 
to  be  the  ruler  of  Sweden.    The  people  did  not  greatly 


604  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NABKATIVES 

regret  lier  abdication,  for  she  had  governed  them  ill, 
and  had  taken  much  of  their  prc^erty  to  supply  her 
extravagance. 

Having  thus  given  up  her  hereditary  crown,  Chris- 
tina left  Sweden  and  traveled  over  many  of  the  countries 
of  Europe.  Everywhere  she  was  received  with  great 
ceremony,  beoause  she  was  the  daughter  of  the  renowned 
Gustavus,  and  had  herself  been  a  powerful  queen.  Per- 
haps you  would  like  to  know  something  about  her  per- 
sonal appearance  in  the  latter  part  of  her  life.  She  is 
described  as  wearing  a  man's  vest,  a  short  gray  petticoat, 
embroidered  with  gold  and  silver,  and  a  black  wig,  which 
was  thrust  awry  upon  her  head.  She  wore  no  gloves, 
and  so  seldom  washed  her  hands  that  nobody  could  teU 
what  had  been  their  original  color.  In  this  strange  dress, 
and,  I  suppose,  without  washing  her  hands  or  face,  she 
visited  the  magnificent  court  of  Louis  XIV. 

She  died  in  168^.  None  loved  her  while  she  lived,  nor 
regretted  her  death,  nor  planted  a  single  ftower  upon 
her  grave.  Happy  are  the  little  girls  of  America  who 
are  brought  up  quietly  and  tenderly  at  the  domestic 
hearth,  and  thus  become  gentle  and  delieate  women ! 
May  none  of  them  ever  lose  the  loveliness  of  their  sex 
by  receiving  such  an  education  as  that  of  Queen  Chris- 
tina. 

— ^Nathaniel  Hawthorne. 
Biographical  Stories.     (Houghton  MiffllB  Company.) 

Juan  Lima's  Life 

The  parents  of  Juan  Luna,  the  greatest  and  most 
eminent  Filipino  painter^  were  Ilocanos  and  of  humble 
birth.    The  young  artist  was  born  in  Ilocop  Norte  in  the 


PEBSONAL  ACCOUNTS  606 

year  1857  and  died  in  Hong  Kong  in  1899.  Prom  child- 
hood he  was  hot-tempered.  Hk  early  edueation  was  at 
home*  At  the  age  of  twelve  he  was  a  good  caricaturist. 
His  father  then  salt  him  to  Manila  to  attend  the  ^' Ateneo 
Municipal."  At  the  age  of  twemty^one  he  was  sent  to 
Madrid,  where  he  studied  art  under  several  famoos 
Spahish  and  Italian  painters.  He  was  given  prizes  at 
the  expoffiticnis  in  Mitdrid  and  Pans.  In  Sp^in  he  met 
Miss  Paz  Pardo  de  Tavera,  whom  he  married  three  years 
later.  He  became  very  popidar.  Some  of  his  friends 
were  Dr.  Jose  Bizal^  Dn  Eoxas^  the  famous  Italian  tenor> 
Payarre,  and  majsy  of  the  Freineh  and  Spanish  nobility. 
He  was  especially  loved  by  women,  of  whose  hearts  and 
inclinations  he  rfiowed  a  knowledge  very  intimate.  Juan 
Luna  had  an  art  which  is  seldom  found  in  man,  an  in- 
stmct  found  only  in  rear  genius,  a  power  to  portray  and 
interpret  life,  tenderness  and  the  emotioins  of  wrath  and 
pity. 

He  was  tall  and  well  built,  with  a  high  forehead,  a 
short  flat  nose  and  large  black  impressive  eyes.  In  about 
the  year  1890,  white  he  was  at  Paris,  a  terrible  thing 
occurred.  His  wifie  began  to  be  untrue  to  him.  It  is 
said  that  one  day  Paz  asked  Juan  to  let  her  go  to  a  eer- 
tain  shop  to  buy  some  thread.  He  allowed  her  to  g6y 
but  soon  followed  h^  because  he  suspected  her.  He 
saw  that  Paz  did  not  go  to  a  ^hop  but  to  a  private  house* 
He  walked. in  and  found  his  wife  with  another  man. 
Then  the  crisis  began.  Luna  was  blind  with  anger.  He 
took  Pas  home  eokd  asked  her  to  explain  to  him  her  late 
behaviour.  After  many  a  tear,  after  many  excuses  and 
explanations,  after  many  promises  to  be  good,  Paz  was 
pardoned. 


606  TYPES  OP  PKOSE  NARRATIVES 

*Two  months  later  Luna  asked  his  wife  to  go  with 
him  and  their  two  children  to  live  in  a  village  near  by. 
Paz  at  first  said  she  would  not  go ;  but  through  the  re- 
quest of  her  mother  and  brothers,  she  assented  to  Liuna^s 
plan.  On  the  day  of  their  departure,  when  the  carriages 
which  were  to  take  them  to  the  neighboring  village  were 
in  front  of  the  door,  Paz  went  to  the  bath*room  with  her 
mother.  Juan  knocked  at  the  dboT  and  asked  her  to 
come  down  for  it  was  getting  late.  Pa^  then  shouted 
out  of  the  window,  saying  that  her  husband  was  killing 
her.  All  at  once  Luna  rushed  to  his  rbom,  took  his  pistol, 
opened  the  bath-room  door  with  a  sudden  push,  and  fired 
at  every  one  who  came  in  his  way.  His  mother-in-law, 
wife  and  elder  son  were  killed,  and  his  younger  son  was 
wounded. 

In  this  deed  we  see  the  real  character  of  Ltma.  He 
waa  generous  and  cold*blooded ;  but  when  his  pride, 
name  and  honor  were  wounded,  his  blood  boiled  in  his 
head,  he  trembled,  and  saw  nothing  before  him — ^neither 
God  nor  man — ^but  only  the  guilty. 

The  police  then  arrested  him.  He  was  tried  the  fol- 
lowing, day.  The  newspapers  spread  this  piece  of  news 
to  the  world  under  their  titles  *^La  Tragsdia  en  Paris,'' 
Fortunately  he  was  acquitted.  The  judges  decided  that 
man's,  honor  is  his  life,  and  that  wh^i  it  is  onee  de- 
slroyed  it  can  never  be  supplied. 

Luna  was  the  greatest  artist  and  painter  that  the 
Philippines  has  ever  produced.  He  is  great  in  his  own 
country  and  ranks  among  the^v^rld^s  good  painters. 

In  1899  he  came  back  to  :the  Philippines ;  but  on  his 
way  home,  while  at  Hong  Kong,  he  died  of  apoplexy  and 
a  broken  heart.    His  son  was  brought  to  Manila  by  a 


PEH90NAL  ACCOUNTS  607 

friend.    Andres,  his  son,  is  now  twenty  years  of  age  and 
is  also  a  good  painter,  bnt  not  like  his  father. 

The  Philippines  produced  one  of  the  world  painters^ 
showing  the  fact  that  a  great  worker  and  a  great  mind 
can  not  be  hidden,  even  by  tyranny  and  oppression. 

— ^Dolores  Asuncion. 

BlUsalHitli  Olade 

Elizabeth  Glade  was  bom  in  Baltimore,  Maryland, 
about  the  year  1816.  Her  mother  was  a  poor  widow,  ba% 
gave  her  as  much  money  as  the  family  purse  could  afford, 
for  education  in  those  days  was  very  expensive. 

Having  finished  with  sehool,  Elizabeth  began  to 
occupy  herself  in  making  buttons  and  fringe,  which  at 
that  time  were  made  by  hand.  At  the  age  of  twenty- 
three  she  married  John  Arnold,  a  carpenter.  They  both 
moved  to  the  city  of  Washington  to  live.  In  1849,  ^hen 
gold  was  discovered  in  California,  Mr.  Arnold  caught 
the  fever  of  the  excitement  and  joined  the  forty-niners. 
A  few  years  afterwards  his  wife  received  news  of  his 
death. 

Elizabeth  was  left  with  only  two  hundred  dollars, 
and  with  five  children  who  looked  to  her  for  food  and 
care.  So  she  began  the  trade  she  had  learned  in  her 
girlhood  and  struggled  along  in  spite  of  hard  times. 
Her  mother  took  care  of  the  children  white  Elizabeth 
gave  hfer  entire  attention  to  her  trade. 

Gradually  her  work  increased.  She  bought  land  in 
the  business  part  of  Washington  and  started  a  store. 
Later  she  bought  more  property.  As  Washington  grew, 
land  and  houses  became  more^  valuable,  and  Elizabeth 
became  wealthy.     She  expended  much  money  on  her 


608  TYPES  OF  PBOSB  NAKBATIVES 

children's  education.  One  son  ake  sent  to  Yale  college 
and  afterwards  to  Etirope  to  continue  his  studies.  This 
son  died  before  he  had  opportunity  to  make  a  name  for 
himself.  Her  other  two  sons  also  died  young;  but  her 
two  daughters  lived  to  survive  her,  and  were  a  great 
comfort  to  her. 

Elizabeth  had  a  peculiar  disposition ;  for,  though  she 
was  exceedingly  charitable,  in  small  things  she  sometimes 
showed  indifference  to  other  [People's  feelings.  In  this 
petty  selfishness,  however,  she  was  always  frank  and 
never  attempted  to  hide  her  actions. 

When  a  young  girl,  before  she  married,  EUzabeth 
once  went  to  town  to  buy  two  veils  for  herself  and  her 
sister.  She  had  received  from  her  sister  the  money  for 
her  veil.  Before  Eli^ibeth  bought  the  veils  she  saw  a 
poor  woman,  who  asked  her  for  money.  Elizabeth,  opened 
her  purse  and  gave  the  wocaett  the  money  for  her  sister  *s 
veiL  She  then  bought  a  veil  for  herself  and  returned 
home.  Her  sister  was  surprised  to  see  her  with  only  one 
veil  and  asked  her  where  the  other  was.  *'I  thought 
that  as  you  were  younger  you  would  not  mind  losing 
your  veil,  and  that  you  would  like  to  give  the  money 
to  the  poor  woman,"  Elizabeth  replied  in.  her  most 
innocent  manner. 

One  time  she  had  company  to  sapper  and,  as  was  her 
custom,  took  all  the  cream  off  the  milk  for  her  own 
coffee  before  passing  the  pitcher  to  &ayone  else.  The 
guest,  when  asked  if  she  would  have  milk  in  her  coffee, 
said:  '*No,  I  do  not  care  for  milk  in  my  coffee  when 
the  cream  has  been  taken  off.''  Elizabeth  burst  out 
laughing  and  said,  ''Well,  Jane>  I  did  not  think  anybody 
saw  me  do  that/' 


PEBSONAL  ACCOUNTS  609 

Elizabeth  supp^ted  two  of  her  brothers  and  their 
families  when  they  became  ill  and  ppor. 

— ^Nellie  Barrington. 

Biography  of  a  Traitor 

Vicente  was  bom  in  Santa  Cruz,  Laguna,  in  the  year 
1868.  His  parents  were  poor,  so  that  he  did  not  have  a 
high  education.  Very  little  is  known  about  his  child- 
hood. He  seemed  to  have  attended  the  primary  school 
of  the  town,  where  he  learned  a  little  Spanish-  He  was 
not  propejrly  brought  up  by  his  pfirents.  He  was  allowed 
to  indulge  in  bad  society.  B^ing  thus  left  alone,  exposed 
to  vice,  he  grew  to  be  an  tmscrupulous  and  unruly  young 
man.  He  became  an  orphan  at  the  age  of  eighteen.  To 
earn  his  living  and  to  satisfy  his. craving  for  any  easy, 
idle  and  dependent  life,  he  joined  the  Ouardia  Civil,  a 
body  of  soldiers  employed  by  the  Spaniards-  to  maintain 
peace  in  the  islands.  Unfortunately,  instead  of  being 
the  guardians  of  peace,  these  men  became  the  malefactors 
of  the  country.  As  I  have  said,  Vicente  joined  this  most 
dreaded  army  of  oppressors  and  in  a  few  days  he  be- 
came one  of  the  most  cruel  and  abusive  men  in  the  corps. 
He  put  many  guiltless  persons  in  prison,  just  because  of 
animosity  or  revenge.  He  sent  many  innocent  persons  to 
the  block  simply  because  he  wished  to  gain  the  favor  of  the 
high  officials.  Such  injustices  were  much  admired  and 
were  even  encouraged  by  the  Spaniards — for  they  also 
practise  such  acts.  Often  such  base  conduct  brought 
promotion  to  a  soldier  of  that  behavior.  ,  So  Vicente  was 
appointed  a  sergeant.  Being  thus  gratuitously  rewarded 
he  grew  more  atrocious  than  before.  He  was,  then,  a 
terror,  an  awful  monster  to  humble  citizens,  a  murderer 


610  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NABRATIVES 

and  a  robber  in  every  sense.  His  tyrannical  and  arbi- 
trary character,  however,  often  succumbed  to  the  tinkling 
of  coins — ^a  fact  that  Was  universally  true  of  government 
officials  of  that  time,  from  the  highest  to  the  lowest. 
Once  or  twice  through  perfidious  ways,  Vicente  acquired 
a  few  large  tracts  of  land,  but  this  unlawfully  attained 
property  was  soon  lost  in  gambling. 

Spanish  rule  was  ended  by  the  revolution  of  1898. 
This  body  of  Guardia  Civiles  was  torn  asunder:  Many 
of  them  were  killed  in  the  fight,  but  many  were  taken 
prisohers  and  some  were  pardoned.  Vicente,  evidently, 
was  to  live  longer  to  play  another  plot  against  his 
country. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  Filipino- American  vrar,  while 
all  the  people  left  the  town,  with  a  heartless  friend 
Vicente  surrendered.  They  allied  theUiselves  with  the 
Americans  to  betray  their  countrymen  in  the  battle- 
field. During  the  year  following  18&8,  these  two  men 
were  the  sole  guides  of  the  Americans  in  their  campaigns. 
They  caused  many  to  be  thrown  in  prison.  They  laid 
heavy  taxes  upon  the  goods  of  the  tradesmen  for  their 
own  tise. 

Vicente's  friend  was  elected  president  of  the  town 
the  first  time  that  the  civil  government  was  established 
here.  He  was  unfortunate,  however,  in  being  stabbed  to 
death  soon  afterwards.  Vicente  succeeded  his  friend  in 
1900,  and. later  married  the  wife  of  his  predecessor.  By 
this  time  Vicente  was  very  rich  with  the  spoils  of  his 
own  couhti^men.  In  fact,  he  was,  then,  living  a  glorions 
life  at  the  expense  of  his  suffering  country.  He  did  not 
wield  his  power  long.  Naturally,  the  Americans  had  no 
confidence  in  him.    V/Jien  the  war  vras  over,  his  oflSce 


PERSONAL  ACCOUNTS  611 

was  taken  from  him  and  was  given  to  a  good  and  honest 
citizen. 

From  that  time  Vicente  lived  a  retired  life  with  his 
family.  Because  of  cock-fighting,  gambling  and  card 
playing,  his  seemingly  abounding  wealth  was  soon  ex- 
hausted. After  all,  he  was  a  poor  ordinary  man,  devoid 
of  influence,  respect  and  rank  in  society.  Even  his  house 
was  sold.  He  then  rented  his  former  house  and  set  up 
as  a  notary  public  in  1904;  by  which  he  could  hardly 
support  his  family.  His  repressed  ambition  for  power 
was,  however,  kindled  again  and  in  January,  1909,  he 
proclaimed  himself,  candidate  for  the  presidency  in  the 
coming  election.  Buit  fortune,  health  and .  success  de- 
serted him.  He  grew  consumptive"  and,  after  a  few 
weeks,  he  was  confined  to  his  bed. 

One  night  in  June,  1909,  Vicente  suddenly  rose  from 
his  bed  and  before  his  companions  could  ask  him  what 
he  wished,  he  jumped  out  of  the  window,  shouting  that 
he  was  chased  by  some  devils' who  were  compelling  him 
to  go  with  them  to  hell.  He  did  not  Jive  long  after  this 
event.  He  died  a  few  hours  later.  In  the  morning,  the 
incident  of  his  tragical  death  reached  the  ears  pf  almost 
everybody,  and  all  these  people  said,  **  He  is  just  paying 
for  some  of  his  injustices.  God  is  punishing  him.  Who, 
know9  what  punishment  he  will  receive  in  the  other 
world!''  .  — ^Walfrido  de  Leon. 


CHAPTER  IX 

IMPERSONAL  ACCOUNTS 

In  its  general  sense  narrative  history  includes  all 
true-story  forms,  even  incidents  and  eye-witness 
accounts.  But  annals  and  chronicles  may  be  grouped 
by  themselves  on  the  basis  of  the  non-personal  and 
scientific  attitude  of  the  writer  and  the  fact  that  the 
story  is  usually  of  the  doings  of  a  set  of  people  living  as 
a  unit.  Of  course  we  find  such  type  blendings  as  the 
** Annals''  of  Goethe,  Tvhich  are  true  but  autobiograph- 
ical, and  the  ** Annals  of  the  Parish*'  by  John  Gait,  and 
the  ** Chronicles  of  the  Schonberg-Cotta  Family," 
which  though  collective  are  fictitious ;  yet  for  the  most 
part  these  forms  are  thought  of  as  embodying  com- 
munity and  actual  history,  and  we  will  take  them  up 
as  such,  remembering  that  fiction  has  dr^-wn  on  all  true- 
narrative  forms  for  verisimilitude.  History  is  often 
classified  into  narrative,  scenic,  and  philosophical. 
Only  with  the  first  kind  have  we  anything  to  do. 

There  are  a  number  of  histories  that  have  extraor- 
dinary literary  value,  that  are  not  mere  recitals  of  past 
events  with  tame  descriptions  of  by-gone  scenes  and 
more-or-less  acute  analysis  of  epochs  and  causes,  but 
are  intense  human  documents  with  the  life-blood  of 
nations  throbbing  and  beating  in  their  pages.  Green 
gave  his  health  and  the  best  days  of  his  living  to  write 

612 


mPEBSONAL  AOCOUN'TS  618 

his  '*  History  of  the  English  Pe6ple/'  and  we  love  it. 
It  has  something  more  than  a  scholar's  accuracy  in  it. 
It  has  a  broad  and  deep  inspiration  that  brings  a  eatch 
in  the  throat  and  a  gleam  of  pride  in  the  eye  of  any 
who  are  fortunate  enough  to  belong  to  the  magnificent 
race  whcfse  deeds  it  records.  Enthusiasts  fought  for 
Maeaulay's  '* History"  at  the  door  of  the  bindery, 
fulfilling  the  author's  hope  that  it  might  be  considered 
more  interesting  than  a  novel.  Motley's  **Rise  of  thd 
Dutch  Republic"  is  one  of  the  most  creditable  things 
in  American  letters.  Prescott's  ''Ferdinand  and  Isa- 
bella," .''Oon<fuest  of  Mexico."  and  of  ''Peru,"  and 
Parkman's  ''M<«atoalm  and  W<dfe"  are  along  side  tot 
literary  qualities.  Carlyle'a  ''French  Revolution"  is  a 
uhique  ajnd  graphic  set  of  pictures.  Gibbon's  "De- 
cline and  Pall  of.  the  Roman  Empire"  has  long  stood  as 
a  clas&ie  example  of  literary  high-seriousness  in  an 
allied  department.  .  Grote's  "History  of  Greece," 
Machiayel's  "History  of  Florence,"  Sismondi's  "Ital- 
ian Republics,"  Hallam's  "Middle  Ages,"  Symond'a 
"Italian  Renaissance"  and  Schiller's  "Thirty  Years' 
War"  are  all  worthy  the  natae  of  literature  and  have 
excellent  narrative  in  them:  We  can  study  at  present, 
however,  only  those  forms  of  history  that  are  shorter 
and  are  metely  narrative — annals,  chronicles,  and  true 
relations. 

I.    Annals 

Annals  sure  a  concise  historical  record  in  which 
events  are  arranged  chronologically,  year  by     what  an- 
year.     The  accounts  of  necessity  are  brief,     nalsaare 
since  they  are  made  and  iept  for  reference.     They 


614  TYPES  OP  PKOSE  NAKBATIVES 

contain  any  maffer  the. rdcorders' deemed  worthy  of 
notice,  espeeiaUy,  of  course,  whatever  affected  the 
community  as  a  'W'hole.  The  reipolrt  stands  in  relation 
to  the  community  mtich'  as  a  diaiy  stands  in  relation  to 
a  person.  Intimate  facts  are  to  be  expected.  The 
ambitions,  hopeia,  di^feats,  expendituriss,  future  plans, 
of  the  city  or  state,  are  mentioned  perhaps,  as  are  also^ 
inaybe,  its  success  and  honor-t-iri  the  carrying  oat  of  a 
town  fiesta  or  county  fair,  or  in  being  host  to  some 
distinguished  visitor  or  to  a  session;  of  some  large 
poKtieal  party.  The  essential  element  of  this  kind  of 
narrative  history  is  the  yearly  {)eriods,  though  the  term 
** annals"  has-been  loosely  used  in  modem  literature  to 
signify  almost  any  temporal  order.*  Indeed,  except  in 
studies  like  this  such  titles  are  never  very  strictly 
applied.  The  Anglo-Saxon  Chronicle,  for  instance,  is 
in  large  part  annals.  However,  we  have  a  few  clear 
cases,  especially  among  the  ancitents.  ' 

Tacitus  wrote  annals.  Then  later  there  are  the 
Annales  'Ecdesiastici  of  Baronius ;  the  Amiales  et 
Famoua  Historia  de  Behus  Belgidis  by  Grotius, 
old  annals  published  at  Amsterdam  in  1557;  Hailes's 
**  Annals  of  Scotland  from  the  Accession  of  Malcolm  III 
to  the  Accession  of  the  House  of  Stuart  5"  Chamber's 
•* Domestic  Annals  of  Scotland,^'  and' others.  John 
Stow  bears  a  very  high  reputation  as  *■  an  accurate  and 
impartial  recorder  of  py.blic  events."  He  travelled  on 
foot  through  a  considerable  part  of  England  examining 
old  maaousoripts  in  cathedrals  and  other  places  of 
preservation.  He  wrote  down  impartially  what  he 
judged  to  be  the  truth,  and,  unswayed  by  **fear,  favor, 
or  malice,"   as  he   hilnself  declared,   he    ^tablished 


IMPERSONAL  ACCOUNTS  G15 

trttstwc«tliy  history  in  kis  natite  land.'  His  *'»:^rvey 
of  London''  (1598)  is  the  best  known  of  hi«  writings, 
A  scholafiy  piece  of  work,  it  has  served  es  the  fotinda- 
tion  of  all  subsequent  histories  of  the .  metropolis. 

American  history,  so  badly  treated  in  the  past,  is 
being  written  accurately- foi^  tie  firs<;  time,  think  our 
preiient  day  historians.  They  go  about  their  work  in 
the  ' goii^d' 'old  Sto*w  fashion:  they  u«e  authenticated 
loc^!  records.  The  friendly  fable  is  current  that  the 
way  a  noted  professor  composes  his  many  histories  is 
this:  he  merely  reaches  about  from  left  to  right -fi^nd 
upand  down  of  his  mammoth  desk  and  pulls  ftbrti  the 
numerous  cubby-holes  bundles  of  closely  "written  pages, 
sorts  th^m  a  little,  ties  a  string  around  thrill,  and  says, 
^* Here's  your  book.^'  But  these  closely' written  pages 
are  carefully  prepared,  •  minutely  accurate  material — 
monographs  dn  the  local  annals  and  traditions  oif 
various  places,  done  by  the  professor's' own  students 
under  thfe  iscrutinizing  eye  6f  their  master.  Whether 
the  fable  is  b^i^ed  on  truth  or  not,  it  'is  illustrative-  of  the 
valu'e  of  annals.-        -     ^    . 

If  you  live*  in  a  small  town,  yOu  fedn  easily  get  at  its 
records,    and   with    the    permission    of  a    person    ih 
authority  icopy  a  tew  items.    If  you  yourself     g^gies- 
v^rjr  well  know  the  events  written  of,. you     tionson 
might  edit  the  Report,  adding  details  of  your     ^'^t*'^**! 
own  by  *Way  of  notes.     Yon  should  not  ^change  the 
statements,  however,  in  the  original;  but,  wh^e  there 
is  evidence  of  error  or  omissions,  you  could  supply  a 
corrective  amendment  with'  the  real  facts  in  support. 
If  you  tt»anslate  from  one' tongue  into  another  be  care- 
fnl  to  give  the  idiomatic  equivalent.    The  annald  of  a 


616  TYPES  or  PBOSE  KAEEATIVES 

society  or  club  might  be  easily  enough  compiled.  All 
that  you  would  need  to  do  would  be  to  arrange  the 
narrative  by  years,  culling  your  facts  from  the  secre- 
taries' reports. 

TI10  State  of  England  in  Stephen's  Beign 
1137.  This  year  King  Stephen  went  across  the  sea 
to  Normandy.  There  he  was  well  received  because  the 
people  thought  that  he  must  be  the  same  sort  of  man  as 
his  uncle ;  for  he  still  had  his  treasure  and  he  distributed 
it  and  squandered  it  foolishly.  In  large  quantities  had 
King  Henry  gathered  gold  and  silver  together.  No  good 
did  any  of  it  do  his  soul,  however. 

When  King  Stephen  eame  to  England  he  made  his 
parliament  at  Oxenford.  There  he  took  Robert,  bishop  of 
Salisbury;  Alix,  bishop  of  Lincoln;  also  Chancellor 
Robert,  his  nephew ;  he  put  them  all  in  prison  until  they 
gave  up  their  castles.  When  the  traitors  understood  that 
he  was  a  mild  man,  soft  and  good,  and  did  no  justice, 
they  did  every  kind  of  wrong.  They  had  sworn  homage 
to  him,  had  made  oaths,  but  they  did  not  keep  faith. 
All  were  foresworn  and  their  Word  of  truth  was  gone. 
For  every  rich  man  made  him  a  castle.  Which  they  all 
held  against  the  king.  They  filled  the  land  full  of  casiles. 
They  oppressed  very  much  the  wretched  men  of  the  land 
with  castle-building.  When  the  eastles  were  finished, 
they  filled  them  with  6vil  and  devilish  men.  They  cap- 
tured and  imprisoned  there  by  night  and  by  day  all 
persons  whom  they  thought  had  any  possessions,  both 
men  and  women.  They  put  them  in  prison  for  the  sake 
of  gold  and  silver.  They  tortured  them  with  indescrib- 
able tortures;  never  were  martyrs  tormented  as  were 


IMPEESONAL  ACCOUNTS  617 

these  people.  They  hnxkged  up  men  by  the  feet  and 
smoked  them  with  foul  siooke.  Some  were  hanged  up 
by  the  thumbs,  others  by  the  bead,  and  burning  things 
were  hung  on  to  their  feet.  They  put  'knotted  strings 
around  men's  heads  and  writfaied  them  uatil  they  weiit 
into  the  brain.  They  put  men  into  priscm  whjcre  adders 
and  snakes  and  toads  were  crawling,  and  so  they  tor- 
mented them.  Some  they  put  into  a  ehest  short  and 
narrow  arid  not,deep>  that  had  sharp  stones  within,  and 
forced  men  therein  so  that  they  broke  all  their  limbe. 
In  many  of  the  eastles  were  hateful  and  grim  things 
called  taekenteges,  whidi  two  or  three  men  had  enougli 
to  do  to  carry.  It  was  thus  made :  it  was  fastened  to  a 
beam  and  bad  a  shaxp  iron  to  go  around  a  man 'is  neck 
and  throat,  so  that  he  might  noways  sit,  or  lie,<or  sleep^ 
but  he  bore  all  the  irdn.  Many  thousands  they  staorved 
with  hunger. 

I  cannot  nor  may  I  tell  all  the  wickedness  and  all  the 
torture  ^hich  they  did  the  poor  wretches  of  tiiis  land. 
This  condition  lasted  liineteeai  years  while  Steph^i  was 
king,  and  it  grew  ever  worse  and  worse.  They  laid 
tribute  on  the  enclosures  (^i^^e^)  always,  e^d  called  it 
censerie.  When  the  miserable  inhabitants  had  no  more 
to  give,  then  they  were  plundered.  The  nobles  burned 
all  the  enclosures.  So  that  you  might  easily  go  a  whole 
day's  journey  and  you  wotdd  find  no  man  sitting  in  his 
enclosure.  No.  land  was  tilled.  Corn  was  dear;  also 
flesh,  cheese,  and  butter,  for  there  was  none  in  thfe 
eountry.  The  wretched  peasants  died  of  hunger.  Some 
who  were  onde  rich  men  went  a  begging;  others  fled  the 
country. 

Never  was  there  before  more  destitution  and  suffering 


618  TYPES  OF  PB08E  NAKBATIVES 

in  the  land ;  never  did  heathen  men  act  worae  than  they 
did.  For  everywhere  subsequently  did  they  forbear 
neither  church  or  churchyard  j  but  they  took  all  the 
property  that  waa  in  theto.  And  sometimes  they  burned 
the  church  and  all  together.  Nor  did  they  spare  bishops' 
land,  or  abbots',  or  priests '..  They  spoiled,  monks  and 
clerks.  And  every  man  (plundered)  the  other  wherever 
he  cotdd.  If  two  or  three  men  came  riding  up  to  an  en- 
closure, all  the  people  of  the  farmstead,  fled  becai^e  of 
them;  for  they  tiiought  that  they  wene  robbers.  The 
bidiops  and  the  clergy  always  cursed  them,  but  that  was 
nothing  to  them;  for  they  were.  all.  fore-cursed,  fore- 
sworn, and  lost. 

Wheresoever  the  peasants  cultivated,  the  earth  pro- 
duced no  grain ;  for  the  land  was  all  destroyed  with  sueh 
deeds.  And  they  said. openly  that  Chriist  and  his  saints 
slept.  Such  things  and  more  than  we  can  mention  we 
suffered  nineteen  years  becaaise  o£  our  sins.    . 

During  all  this  evil  time  Abbot  Martin  held  his  ab- 
bacy twenty  years,  six,  months  and  eight  days,  with  great 
toil.  He  provided  his  monks  and  his  guests  all  that  they 
needed ;  he  practiced  much  charity  in  his  house.  Never- 
theless he  Worked  on  the  church,  and  appointed  for  its 
lands  and  rents.  He  endbwed:it  richly,  he  caused  it  to 
be  roofed,  he  brought  thenj  (the  monks)  into  the  new 
minister  on  St;  Peter's,  dAy  (June  29)  with  much  honor. 
And  .he  went  to  Rome;  there  he  Was  well  received  by 
Pope  Eugenius.  He  obtained  privileges;:  one,  of  all  the 
lands  of  the  abbacy  and  another^  of  the  lands  which  be- 
long to  the  ofiice  of  sacrist.  And,,  if  he  might  live  longer, 
he  meant  to  do  the  same  with  respect  to  the  office  of 
treasurer.    And  he  gaiiled  property  in  lands  that  power- 


IMPEESOISTAL  ACCOUNTS  .  :  519 

ful  men  held  by  force  or  violence;  from  William  Maldint, 
who  held  Rockingham,  he  obtained  Cottingham  and 
Easton,  and  from  Hugo.of  Waiteviile  he  secured  Irling- 
borough  and  Stanwiek,  and  forty  sols  from  OldwinMe 
each  year.  And  he  c]*eated  many  monks  and  planted 
vineyards.  And  he;  performed  many  works.  And  he 
changed  the  town  to  a  better  state  than  it  ever  was  before. 
He  was  a  good  monk  and  a  good  man ;  therefore  God  and 
other  men  loved  him. 

Now  we  will  say  a  little  about  what  befell  in  King 
Stephen's  time.  Durihg  his  reign  the  Jew  of  Norwich 
bought  a  Christian  boy  before  Easter  and  tortured  him 
with  all  the  torture  that  our  Lord  saif ered.  And  on 
Good  Friday  they  hanged-  him  to  a  cross  for  the  love  of 
our  Lord.  Then  they.buried  him^  They  thought  it  would 
be  concealed,  biut  our  Lord  showed  that  he  was  a  holy 
martyr.  The  monks  took  him  and  buried  him  splendidly 
in  the  minster,  i  And  he  performed  through  our  Lord 
many  wonderful  miracles.  Th^  called  him  Saint  Wil- 
liam: .  •-..'.;. 

1138.  This  yeai^  King  David  of  Scotland  came  to  this 
land  with  an  immense  army.  He  wanted  to  obtain  pos- 
session of  the.  country  by  fighting.  And  there  came 
against  him  William^  Earl  of  Albermar,  to  whotaa'the 
king  had  entrusted  York  and  to  other  faithful  men  with 
a  few  followers,  iEind  fought  with  him:  He  put  the  king 
to  flight  at  the  battle  of  the  Standard,  and  slew  very 
many  of  his  army. 

1140.  This  year  King.  Stephen  wanted  to  take  Robert, 
Earl  of  Gloucester,  King  Henry's  son-,  but  he  could  not, 
for  he  became  aware  of  it. 

Thereafter  in  the  Lenten  season  the  sun  and  the  day 


620  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NAKBATIVES 

grew  dark,  about  the  ninth  hour  of  the  day,  while  people 
were  eating;  so  that  they  had  to  light  eandles  to  eat  by. 
It  was  on  the  20th  of  Miftrch  that  the  inhabitants  were 
80  greatly  astonished. 

Later  William,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  died.  And 
the  king  made  Theobald  archbishop,  who  was  abbot  in 
the  abbey  of  Bee. 

Then  there  waxed  a  viery  great  war  between  the  kmg 
and  Randolf,  earl  of  Chester,  not  for  the  reason  that  he 
(the  king)  did  not  give  him  (evidently  the  earl)  all  that 
he  demanded  of  him,  as  he  did  to  all  the  others.  But 
always  the  more  he  gave  them,  the  worse  they  were  to 
him.  The  earl  held  Lincoln  against  the  king  and  de- 
prived  him  of  all  that  he  ought  to  have.  Thither  went 
the  king  and  besieged  the  earl  and  his  brother  William 
of  Bomare  in  the  castle.  But  the  earl  stole  out  and  went 
after  Eobert,  earl  of  Gloucester,  and  brought  him  thither 
with  a  large  army.  They  fought  hard  on  Candlemas  day 
against  their  lord.  They  captured  him  because  his  men 
betrayed  him  and  fled.  They  led  him  to  Bristol  and  put 
him  in  prison.  Then  was  all  England  stirred  more  than 
it  ever  was  before.  And  all  kinds  of  evil  were  in  the 
land. 

Later  came  King  Henry's  daughter  that  had  been 
empress  of  Germany.  Now  she  was  the  countess  of 
Anjou.  She  came  to  London  and  the  London  folk 
wanted  to  seize  her.  And  she  fled  and  lost  there  very 
much. 

.  Then  Henry,  bishop. of  Winchester,  brother  of  King 
Stephen,  spoke  with  Earl  Robert  and  with  the  empress 
and  swore  them  oaths  that  he  would  never  again  hold 
with  the  king  his  brother,  and  he  cursed  all  those  that 


IMPERSONAL  ACCOUNTS  621 

were  allied  to  him.  And  he  told  thfem  that  he  would  give 
up  to  them  Wizkchester,  and  he  caused  them  to  come 
thither.  When  they  were  within,  the  castle,  the  king's 
queen  came  with  all  her  forces  and  besieged  them.  And 
a  great  famine  occurred  in  the  castle.  When  they  could 
no  longer  endure  it,  they  stole  out  and  fled.  But  those 
without  were  aware,  and  followed  them.  And  they  took 
Robert,  earl  of  Gloucester,  and  IM  him  to  the  Rochester 
and  put  him  in  prison.  The  empress  escaped  into  a 
minster.  Then  went  wise  men  between  the  king's  friends 
and  the  earl's  friends.  And  they  negotiated  that  the 
king  should  be  let  out  of  prison  in  exchange  for  the 
earl,  and  so  they  exchanged  captives. 

— ^Peterborough  Chronicle* 

Annals  of  tbe  Town  of  Mangaldan,  1879-1882 

I.  July  2, 1879.  An  army  of  locusts  swept  over  the 
town.    Crops  were  destroyed;  panic  followed. 

II.  August  8,  1879.  The  cura  (priest)  ordered  the 
improvement  of  streets. 

III.  August  21, 1879.  A  cardinal  from  Rome  visited 
the  town.  The  priests  waited  on  his  table.  Several 
persons  arrested  for  violating  a  certain  ordinance  were 
pardoned  through  the  grace  of  the  holy  visitor. 

rV.  February  29,  1880.  The  gold  rosary  of  the 
image  of  Virgin  Mary  was  stolen ;  consequently,  the  cura 
forbade  the  procession  on  this  evening  of  that  day. 

V.  July  17.  A  terrible  earthquake  shook  the  town, 
destroying  some  houses. 

VI.  November  27.  ■  The  Governor  General  visited 
Mangaldan.  There  was  great  rejoicing;  all  the  houses 
around  the  plaza  were  hung  with  damasks. 


622  TYPES  OP  PBOSE  NAKRATIVES 

VII.  December  1.  A  Moro  Was  taken  aroimd  the 
town.    He  carried  a  flag  with  a  pig  painted  on  it. 

—Don  Domingo  Ydio,^  1879-1880. 

I.  January  1, 1881.  Mariano  Cendana,  after  murder- 
ing all  the  members  of  his  family,  went  around  the  town, 
killing  all  whom  he  met.    He  was  at  last  captured. 

II.  October.  A  big  comet  appeared  in  the  east.  It 
was  so  low  that  the  people  said  it  was  only  as  high  up 
as  the  tallest  oocoanut.  The  rays,  spreading  far  and 
wide,  struck  superstitious  persons  with  awe  and  admira- 
tion. 

m.  November.  General  epidemic,  caused  by  some 
disease  scattered  by  water  (perhaps  cholera),  killed 
many  people. 

IV.  June,  1882.  Another  murder,  Adriano  Torralba, 
killed  three  men  in  the  barrio  of  Maasfai. 

—Kept  by  Don  Mariano  Cortes,  1881-1882. 
(Obtained  and  translated  by  Bemabe  B.  Aquino.) 

Annals  of  Fagsanjan 
It  has  been  said  that  about  the  middle  of  the  seven- 
teenth century  some  Chinese  traders  arrived  at  the 
junction  of  the  Bumbungan  and  the  Balanac  rivers. 
They  chose  this  place  to  establish  a  trading  post,  for  the 
boats  and  barges  could  anchor  close  to  the  land.  At 
that  time  the  San  Isidro  Hill  extended  to  the  Balanac 
river,  and  there  were  rice  and  com  fields  on  the  site  of 
the  present  town.  As  time  went  on,  the  Chinese  married 
Filipino  women,  and  quite  a  settlement  grew  up.  The 
Chinese  built  houses  and  stores,  and  formed  a  small  vil- 


*The  reigning  Cdpitah  (town  President). 


IMPERSONAL  ACCOUNTS  ggg 

lage  \vlth  other  Filipino:  families-  •  This  vill^geiwas  utider 
the  control  of  Lumbang,  its  •  neighboring  town;  Tbes  inr 
habiftanis.  of  the  Tillage  went  to  hear  mass  at  Luimbmgi. 
The  men,  ^^ecially  the .  Chinese  and  their  soias,  gifaduT 
ally  grew  rich.  One  of  these  rich  mestizos  supported  th« 
priest  of  Lumbarng,.  whoj  acpoxdingly,.  could  not  say:  the 
mass  before  they  wei^e  all  in  the  church.         .  ';.  ., 

One  day,  however,  when  the  priest  .was  himgry,  h^ 
said  the  mass;  bef©^  their  arrival.  Then  the  opaan.  whp 
supported  him;  btoaiae  ahgty.  He  aeBBemWed  ajl  his 
f ellowmen  to  talk  concerning  the  separation  of  the  vil- 
lage from  Lumbang.  They  all:  agreed -to  build  a  church 
of  their  own  and  call  a  priest.  They  contributed,  mopiey, 
and  then  asked  some  Chinese  carpenters  to  build  a  chuirc]^ 
for  them.  It  wa»/con3i$)leted.ja  1690.:  At i  the 'Completion 
of  th«  chureh.  they  a^eed  to  buijd  8ti?p0ts  a^nd.  enlarge 
their  village,  in  order  that  it. might:  aiQe^xftpayodatj^  the.m- 
creasing  population;  They  d»g<,jUp  a'^part  of  th^  San 
Isidro  Hill,  and. an  that  jolearad ^a.ce  l^d  out  the  streiets 
which  are :  now '  c&lled  JkSauira,'  Rixftl.  4n4  Mor^t.  They 
also  covered  the  fields:  with  .$and,:  andbuUt  qtber  streets. 
They  kept  enlarging,  the  village  tiUJjt.bi^aaine  a  towjji. 
The  people  named  this  town  Finagsanga  jan>  ¥hich  is^aQs 
branching.  They. so  called  it  Piuagsaagaijap,  lor  it  was 
located  at  the  junction  of  the  Salanac  and  tl^e.  Bumbun- 
gan  rivers.  Now  the  people  ,oalJed  it  Pfigsanjau,  contract 
tion  of  Pinagsangajan. 

•  In  1763. the  (Jhuarch  was  burned-  .  It  was  rebuilt  in 
1764.    It  was  not  completed  till  1882.    : 

In  1880  a  great  eaklhquake.oecurred,  an4  many  buildr 
^Hlgs.in  Bagsanjan  were  destroyed..'  These  ruinied  bi^ild- 
ings  were  :not:repadred  for  seK^en  yeariS. 


624  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NARBATIVES 

In  1890  a  severe  storm  occurred,  and  the  Balanac 
and  the  Bumhungan  rivers  overflowed  their  banks.  The 
water  flowed  all  over  the  town.  Many  buildings  were 
carried  away  1^  the  flood,  and  many  people  were 
drowned. 

In  1893  a  great  fire  happened,  and  more  than  one 
hundred  and  fifty  buildings  were  burned.  Before  the 
big  fire  there  were  some  large  houses.  Very  few  houses 
at  that  time  were  made  of  stone.  So  after  the  fire  the 
people  used  stone  materials  in  rebuilding  their  ruined 
houses. 

They  made  their  new  houses  larger  than  the  old  ones. 
It  took  them  many  years  to  finish  beautifying  the 
town. 

On  November  14,  1896,  the  Katipunan  arrived  at 
Pagsanjan.  The  next  day  they  went  to  Santa  Cruz  to 
storm  the  town,  but  they  could  not  carry  out  their  plan, 
for  all  the  people  who  were  faithful  to  their  country 
fought  against  them.  Then  they  returned  to  Pagsanjan. 
They  went  back  again  to  Santa  Cru2,  but  they  accom- 
plished nothing.  On  Tuesday  afternoon  nearly  all  the 
inhabitants  of  Pagsanjan  fled  from  the  town,  because 
many  itoldiers  were  come  to  storm  the  place.  But  the 
shelling  did  not  happen ;  instead  they  pardoned  those  who 
did  not  run  away  when  they  saw  that  the  people  in  the 
town  were  few.  The  leader  of  these  soldiers  was  G^ieral 
Aguirre. 

In  1901  the  Americans  came  to  Pagsanjan.  When 
they,  came  the  church  plaza  served  as  barracks  for  the 
soldiers.  These  soldiers  erected  their  tents  and  staked 
th^ir  horses  there.  This  plaza  has  had  a  checkered  his- 
tory.   In  1892  when  Don  Pedro  Paterao,  a  deputy  of  the 


IMPEBSONAL  ACCOUNTS  68S 

first  district  of  the  province  of  Lagnna,  was  spending  his 
vacation  in  Fagsanjan,  «  meeting  was  held  at  his  house, 
and  he  urged  upon  the  people  the  advantage  of  erecting 
a  monument  in  the  center  of  the  park,  so  as  to  com- 
memorate the  concession  of  municipal  government  in  the 
Philippines.  The  people  all  agreed  with  him,  so  im- 
mediately they  contributed  money  and  within  a  wieeik  the 
proposed  monument  was  completed.  In.  the  dedication 
of  this  monument  many  people  joiaed.  As  the  monument 
was  erected  to  thank  the  government  of  Spain,  tha  in- 
scription engraven  on  the  tablets  was  about  the  Queen 
of  Spain,  Don  Angel  Aviles,  the  director  general  of  the 
civil  administration^  and  others*  In  1898  just  after  ^he 
insurrection  of  the  Filipinos  against  the  Spaniards,  the 
four  marble  tablets  with  their  inscriptions  were  taken 
from  the  faces  of  the  monument  and  reversed ;  then  on 
the  blank  surface  were  painted  inscriptions  of  the  revo- 
lutionary government  in  honor  of  Emilio  Aguinaldo  and 
Apolinario  Mabini.  In  1902  after  the  Philippines  be- 
came subject  to  the  American  government,  the  councillors 
agreed  to  remove  the  inscriptions,  replacuiig  them  with, 
others— .Wmiam  McBiinley,  Jos6  Rizal;  W.  H.  Taft  and 
the  honorable  Civil  Commission  of  the  United  States  in 
the  Philippines.  But  the  people  were  not  cpnteuted  with 
the  inscriptions,  so  after  a  short  time  an  agreement  was 
made  that  the  tablets  were  to  be  turned  as  they  were 
originally  mounted,  presenting  the  old  inscriptions^  so 
that  the  founders  and  the  names  of  those  in  whose  honor 
the  monument  was  first  erected  and  who  granted  the 
early  liberties  should  not  be  forgotten. 

— ^Dolores  Zafra. 


62$  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NARRATIVES 

II,    Chronieles 

When  the  order  of  time  is  most  coufspicuous,  history 
is  called  chronicle.  The  work  is  usually  divided  into 
Definition,  sections,  eaeh  section  covering  a  separate 
FtoiBMrt  period.  Th«  periods  may  be  long  or  short. 
The  account  of  occurrences  may  b«  somewhat  elabo- 
rate, but  it  is  riiost  Often  bal^e  and  simple.  Proissart's 
chronicles  (1826-1400),  however,  are  a  rich  pageantry 
of  feudal  tinies.  **The  din  of  arms,  tiie  shoiiting 
of  knights,  and  marshalling  of  troops  are  there. 
Visions  Of  fair  women  rise  beifore  us.  Gorgeous 
feasts  and  spectacles  in  which  this  knight  of  Prance 
and  England  so  much  delighted  are  set  forth  in  copious 
details,  and  though  he  id  no  philosopher,  his  shrewd 
observations,'  and  riehly  minute  descriptions  have 
helped  others  to '  philosophize. '  '^  Proissart  's  Chron- 
icles first  appeared  at  PaHsubout  the  end  of  the 
fifteenth  century-  under  the  title  of  Ohroniques  de 
Prance,  d^Angleterre,  d'Escos^e,  d'Espagne,  de 
Bretagne,  deOascognt,  de  Flanders  et  Ueux  d'aleutour. 
In  English  there  are  two  versions:  one  executied  in 
1523-25  by  Lord  Berriers  (reprinted  in  1812) ;  and  the 
other  1803-5  by^  Th^^inas  Johnes.  '  The  later  is  more 
correct.  In' the  13th  and  14th  ctoturies  chroniclers 
sprung  up  all  over  Europe-  and  created  thenon-ehureh 
history  of  the  highways.  i 

Contemporaneous  ^with  Proissart  was  Ayala,  who  is 

first  of  the  Spanish;  ehitotiiclers  to  be  entirely 

safe  as  an  historical  sduree.-     Ayala  wrote 

calm,  business-like  prose,  and  was  bent  upon  recording 

*Van  Dyke's  tntroduction  to  Froissart's  Chronicles    (Colonial 
Press) . 


IMPBJiSONAI/  ACCOUNTS  627 

facts  whether  glorious  or  inglorious,  In  contrast  with 
Frpissart's  simple-hearted  enthusiasm  Ayala's  attitude 
is  Qne  of  cool  sagacity  and  experience.  IJe.lpQkst  quite 
through  the  dee4s  of  men.  He.  as  dispassionately 
records  the  crimes  of  the  Iqrds  of  the  earth  as  he  does 
their  pretentions  to  greatness.  He  lived  in  **four  wild 
reigns" — ^those  of  Peter  the  Cruel,  Henry  the.  Second, 
John  the  Fir^t,  and  Henry  the  Third — «^n(J,.  as  a  min- 
ister of  state  in  each,  had  every  c^portunity  to  become 
disillusioned,  about  chivalry.  Aa  ev^nt  that  both 
Ayala  and  Froissart  reeord  isitjie  lyiurder  of  Blanche, 
of  Bourbon  by  her  husband  the  king,  Don  Pedro  the 
Cruel.     -  .         . 

The  circumstaatial  minuteness  of  an  accpunt  by 
a  chronicler,  who  was  an  epight-year^'  ^e-witjiess 
of  the  king's  inhumanity  td  his  young  and  beautiful 
queen,  and  who  ^-eeorded  stQp  by  step,  tjie  .series  of 
murders  by  which  the  king  came  up  to  the. final  crime, 
seems  more  moving,  to  a  modern  reftder,  than  would 
seem  the  wildest  and  most  impassioned  baUad  on  the 
subject.  Indeed,  Ayala 's  account  has  settled  the  char- 
acter of  Don  Pedrp  forever,  despite  the  oqeawnal 
attempts  by  some  personally  interested  ooimtryman  to 
defend  him,  and  despite  the  sentimental-tr^edy  of  the 
theater,  and.  such  metrical  outburst^  as  that  of 
Chaucer's, in  the  *' Monk's  Tale.''  But  ^Chaucer,  aS' 
Ayala  himself  would  have  told  us,  was  an  ''interested  . 
party,"  since  he  was  attaqhed  to .  the  Duke  of  Lan- , 
caster  who  was  attached  to  Don  Pedro*.    . 

Seventy-five  or  eighty  years  before  Ayala,  Alfonso^ 
the  Wise  had  begun  the  geperal  chronicle  of  Spain  by . 
collecting  old  ballads  md  redoing  them  into  prose,  and 


628  TYPES  OF  PBOSE  NARRATIVES 

• 
by  adding  thereto  the  history  of  hia  own  day.     Sixty 

years  after  him,  Alfonso  the  Eleventh  appointed  a  court 
chronicler;  and  so  the  habit  in  Spain  of  recording  the 
General  ^^^^^  eyents  of  the  kingdom  was  kept  up 
cbronide  from  1320  with  more  or  less  regularity  down 
offi^ain  to  the  establishment  of  the  Academy  of 
History  in  the  eighteenth  century.  It  is  interesting 
to  note  that  this  chronicle,  that  first  preserved  the 
popular  metrical  tales  by  putting  them  into  prose,  in 
turn  gave  rise  to  popular  metrical  tales  that  have  kept 
the  traditions — such  as  those  of  the  Cid  and  Bernardo 
del  Carpio. 

Like  this  earlier  part  of  the  Spanish  Chronicle,  the 
still  older  legendary  chronicles  of  the  North  promoted 
Sazo  Oram-  literature.  That  of  the  Britons  by  Geoflfrey 
matici^  of  Monmouth  and  that  of  the  Danes  by  Saxo 
Grammatictts  have  served,  perhaps,  a  better  purpose 
than  true  accounts ;  for  they  have  quickened  the  imagi- 
nation of  subsequent  tiities  and  given  lis  themes  for 
many  ballads  and  for  some  of  the  marvelous  produc- 
tions of  Shakespeare. 

Because  of  the  industry  of  Shakespeare's  com- 
mentators in  assigning  so  much  of  the  great  drama- 
tist's subject-matter  to  Holinshed,  the  Tudor 
^  ^  chronicler  will  always  live.  Regardless  of 
whatever  he  may  be  worth  personally,  the  whole  world 
owes  him  a  debt  for  doing  the  hack  work  aiid  thus  leaving 
a  great  genius  free  to  construct. 

A  chronicle  is  not  hard  to  write.    The  only  require- 
ments are  that  you  shall  select  a  definite  period   of 
time,  and,  proceeding  in  order,  draw  in  it  simple  and 
pictures    of   the    life    lived    and   the    deeds 


IMPERSONAL  ACCOUNTS  629 

\rrought.    You  might  put  together  the  events  of  your 
►wn  neighborhood  for  the  last  three  years. 

Or  you  might  write  up  some  important  happening 
IS  it  reaches  back  into  the  past  and  culminates  in  the 
present.  You  would  then  be  writing  a  true  Tnie 
relation.  A  true  relation  does  not  differ  relation 
oauch  from  a  chronicle  except  in  the  fact  that  the 
author  as  one  person  takes-  full  responsibility  for  all 
the  statements.  He  must  record  nothing,  therefore, 
that  he  does  not  himself  actually  know ;  of  every  thing, 
else  he  must  give  warning  as  hearsay  or  as  oral  or 
written  tradition  or  as  records  of  someone  else.  A  true 
relation  may  even  be  a  travel  sketch  or  a  partial 
biography.  If  differs  from  journal  and  diary  in  being 
a  narrative  of  the  doings  of  units  of  mankind  or  of 
events  that  are  of  scientific  or  general  importance  and 
that  are  not  necessarily  recorded  daily  and  have  no 
essentially  personal  bearing  upon  the  author  beyond 
the  relationship  of  vouched  and  voucher. 

In  1589  Richard  Hakluyt  published  a  folio  of 
various  relations  which  he  called  *'The  Principal 
Navigations,  Voyages,  and  Discoveries  Made  by  the. 
English  Nation."  The  events  recorded,  however,  are 
not  always  authentic.  Modem  historians  are  impatient 
with  Hakluyt,  because  he  did  not  select  more  carefully 
and  sacrifice  bulk  to  trustworthiness.  Wfell-known 
Spanish  relations  found  in  Blair  and  Robertson's 
''Philippine  Islands"  are  those  of  Loarca,  Chirino, 
Morga,  Plascencia.    They  are  considered  reliable. 


630  TYPES  OF  PKOSE  NAEKATIVES 

CEBONICLE 
SlTalxy  Bttween  Two  Towxis 
During  the  time  that  the  Earl  of  Flanders  was  in  his 
greatest  prosperity  there  was  a  citizen  of  Ghent,  by  name 
John  Lyon,  subtle  and  enterprising,  and  very  much  in 
favor  of  the  earL    This  man  having  been  banished  from 
Ohent  on  account  of  some  murder  in  which  he  had  been 
concerned,  retired  to  Donay,  where  the  earl,  who  is  said 
to  have  been  the  promotion  of  the  murder,  supported  him 
in  the  greatest  affluence,  after  a  while  recovered  for  him 
his  freedom,  and  made  him  deacon  of  the  pilots,  which 
oflSce  might  be  worth  about  1,000  francs  a  year.    At  the 
same  time  there  was  a   family  in   Ghent  called  the 
Matthews,  consisting  of  seven  brothers,  who  were  the  most 
considerable  of  all  the  pilots.     One  of  these,  by  name 
Gilbert  Matthew,  from  jealousy  and  other  causes,  bore 
in  secret  great  hatred  toward  this  John  Lyon,  and  de- 
termined,  without  striking  a  blow,  to  do  him  the  greatest 
injury  in  his  power.    With  this  view  he  got  acquainted 
with  one  of  the  earl's  chamberlains,  and  in  the  course 
of  conversation  with  him.  took  an  opportunity  of  saying 
that  if  the  £arl  of  Flanders  pleased  he  mi^ht  gain  every 
year  a  handsome  revenue  from  the  pilots;  that  it  might 
be  collected  on  the  foreign  trade,  provided  John  Lyon, 
the  deacon,  would  acquit  himself  honestly.    The  hint  was 
conveyed  by  the  chamberlain  to  the  earl,  who  (like  other 
great  lords,  naturally  eager  of  gain)   ordered  Gilbert 
Matthew  to  be  sent  for.    Gilbert  was  introduced  accord- 
ingly and  made  his  scheme  appear  so  reasonable  that  the 
earl  agreed  to  adopt  it.    John  Lyon  was  forthwith  sent 
for,  and  in  Gilbert's  presence  the  earl   proposed  the 
scheme  to  him.    Now  John  saw  at  once  that  this  was  not 


IMPEBSONAL  ACCOUNTS  631 

a  reasonable  demand,  and  consequently  said,  *'What  you 
require,  m  it  seems  at  Gilbert's  proposing,  I  cannot  exe- 
cute alone;  it  will  be  too  heavy  upon  the  mariners.'* 
However,  the  earl  persisted,  and  John  Lyon  replied  that 
he  would  do  the  best  in  his  power. 

When  this  conference  was  over,  Gilbert  Matthew, 
whose  only  object  was  to  ruin.  John  Lyon,  went  to  his  six 
brothers  and  said  to  them,  ^^You  must  now  give  me  every 
possible  assistance,  and  we  shall  effect  our  purpose.  A: 
meeting  is  to  be  held  about  this  tax;  now,  notwithstand- 
ing all  I  may  say  at  the  meeting,  you  must  refuse  to 
comply.  I  will  dissemble  and  argue  that  if  John  Lyon 
did  his  duty,  this  ordinance  would  be  obeyed.  I  know 
the  earl  well,  and  sooner  than  lose  his  point,  John  Lyon 
will  be  displaced  from  his  office,  which  will  be  given  to 
me,  and  then,  of  course,  you  can  comply.  With  regard 
to  the  other  mariners,  we  are  too  powerful  for  them  to 
oppose  us." 

The  six  brothers  agreed  to  do  exactly  as  Gilbert  had 
directed  them,  and  at  the  meeting  everything  turned  out  ' 
as  he  wished;  jfpr  John  was  deposed  and  the  office  was 
given  to  Gilbert.  Not  contented  with  having  effected  the 
ruin  of  their  unhappy  victim,  one  of  the  brothers  wanted 
to  contrive  to  have  him  put  to  death,  but  to  this  the  others 
would  not  agree,  saying  that  he  had  done  them  no  wrong 
and  that  no  man  ought  to  lose  his  life  but  by  sentence 
of  a  judge.  Things  went  quietly  for  some  time,  until  the 
people  of  Bruges,  began  to  make  a  canal  from  the  River 
Lys.  The  cazial  had  often  before  been  attempted;  but 
as  the  inhabitants  of  Ghent  considered  it  to  he  injurious 
to  the  interests  of  their  town,  it  w^s  always  opposed  by 
them.    On  the  present  occasion  the  Earl  of  Flanders  had 


633  TYPES  OP  PB08E  NARRATIVES 

sanctioned  the  plan,  and  even  sent  pioneers  with  a  body 
of  men-at-artos  to  annoy  them  in  the  execution  of  their 
work. 

As  chance  would  have  it,  one  day  a  woman  on  her  re- 
turn from  a  pilgrimage  to  Our  Lady  of  Boulogne,  being 
weary,  sat  down  in  the  market-place  of  Ghent;  when 
many  people  collected  around  her,  asking  whence  she 
came.  **Prom  Boulogne,''  said  the  woman,  **and  I  have 
seen  cm  my  road  the  greatest  curse  that  ever  befell  the 
town  of  Ghent ;  for  there  are  upward  of  five  hundred  men 
laboring  night  and  day  to  open  a  canal  for  the  Lys,  and 
if  they  be  not  immediately  prevented,  the  course  of  the 
river  will  soon  be  turned/'  This  speech  of  the  woman 
was  echoed  far  and  wide,  and  served  to  inflame  men's 
minds  in  all  directioncr.  Many  said  that  if  John  Lyon 
had  been  deacon  no  such  attempt  would  ever  have  been 
made;  and  to  him  they  resorted  for  advice.  John 
thought  this  a  favorable  opportunity  to  redress  the  in- 
jury he  had  received ;  however,  he  did  not  wish  to  seem 
^to  thrust  himself  forward ;  but  when  prevailed  upon  to 
speak,  after  much  entreaty  said*.  ** Gentlemen,  if  you 
wish  to  put  an  end  to  this  business,  you  must  renew  an 
ancient  custom  which  formerly  existed  in  this  town  of 
Ghent.  I  mean  you  must  first  put  on  white  hoods  and 
choose  a  leader." 

*^  We  will  have  it  so !  We  will  have  it  so !''  was  heard 
on  all  sides.    **We  will  put  on  white  hoods.'' 

White  hoods  were  accordingly  provided  and  given 
out  to  those  who  preferred  war  to  peace ;  and  John  Lyon 
was  elected  chief.  Most  willingly  did  he  accept  the  oflSce, 
for  he  rejoiced  at  the  opportunity  of  embroiling  the 
+/.«r«o  r^f  Ghent  and  Bruges  with  each  other  and  with 


IMPEKSONAL  ACCOUNTS  633 

the  earl,  their  lord.    Gilbert  Matthew,  on  the  other  hand, 
was  by  no  means  well  pleased  when  he  saw  in  what  num- 
bers the  white  hoods  had  colleeted.     News  was  soon 
carried  to  the  pioneers  that  a  large  force  from  Ghent  was 
coming  against  them,  upon  which  they  immediately  left 
their  work  and  returned  to  Bruges,  so  that  John  Lyon 
and  his  party  returned  to  the  town  without  any  en- 
counter.   During  the  same  week  in  which  these  white 
hoods  had  placed  themselves  under  the  command  of  John 
Lyon,  another  cause  of  distrust  originated  at  Ghent  by 
some  persons  who  were  alarmed  for  its  franchises ;  which 
circumstances   also  favored   greatly   John's   desire   of 
embroiling  the  town.    The  hope  of  success  made  him  more 
active  than  ever.    He  spread  secret  rumors  in  different 
parts  and  took  every  opportunity  of  suggesting  '*That 
never  could  the  privileges  of  any  town,  be  properly  main- 
tained when  offices  were  put  to  sale,''  intending  this  in 
allusion  to  the  manner  in  which  Gilbert  Matthew  had 
become  possessed  of  the  deaconship.    Moreover,  he  fre^ 
quently  harangued  his  people  in  public ;  on  which  oc- 
casions he  spoke  so  well  and  with  so  much  art  that  he 
always  left  them  highly  impressed  in  his  favor.     At 
length  the  men  of  Ghent  determined  to  send  to  the  Earl 
of  Flanders  requesting  a  redress  of  their  grievances,  and 
especially  that  he  would  put  a  stop  to  the  canal.    The 
earl,  thinking  to  abolish  the. white  hoods,  immediately 
granted  the  request,  but  John  Lyon,  who  was  present 
when  the  earl's  answer  was  received,  thus  addressed  the 
meeting:    **My  good  people,  you  see  clearly  at  present 
the  value  of  these  white  hoods.    Do  they  not  guard  your 
privileges  better  than  those  of  the  red  and  black,  or  hoods 
of  any  other  color  ?   Be  assured,  then,  by  me,  that  as  soon 


634  TYPES  OP  PltOSE  NAKRATIVES 

as  they  shall  be  laid  aside  I  will  not  give  three  farthings 
for  all  your  privileges. ' ' 

This  speech  had  the  desired  effect  upon  the  people, 
and  they  determined  to  do  as  John  Lyon  had  advised 
them.  But  Gilbert  Matthew,  who  was  very  ill  at  ease, 
concerted  a  plan  with  the  earl  to  arrest  John  and  some 
of  the  principals  of  the  white  hoods,  hoping  thereby  to 
disperse  the  rest.  With  this  view  the  bailiff  of  Ghent 
came  to  the  town  with  about  200  horsemen ;  galloped  up 
the  streets  with  the  earl's  banner  in  his  hand,  and  posted 
himself  in  the  market-place,  where  he  was  joined  by 
Gilbert  and  several  others.  John  Lyon,  suspecting  vrhat 
was  intended,  immediately  got  together  a  large  body  of 
his  men,  for  they  were  instructed  to  be  always  ready,  and 
ordered  them  to  advance.  The  moment  Gilbert  Matthew 
and  his  party  saw  the  white  hoods  advancing  they  left  the 
bailiff  and  ran  off  as  fast  as  they  could.  John  Lyon  on 
entering  the  market-place,  without  saying  a  word,  seized 
the  bailiff  and  slew  him.  He  then  ordered  the  earVs 
banner  to  be  dragged  through  the  dirt  and  torn  to  pieces; 
and,  upon  seeing  this,  the  men  at  arm«  took  to  flight  and 
left  the  town,  which  the  victorious  party  pillaged  as  they 
pleased. 

After  this  event,  several  of  the  wisest  and  richest  of 
the  citizens  in  Ghent,  tired  of  these  constant  contentions, 
called  an  assembly  in  which  it  was  debated  how  they 
could  best  make  up  matters  with  the  earl  and  promote 
the  advantage  of  the  town.  John  Lyon  and  other  leaders 
of  the  white  hoods  were  invited  to  attend;  indeed,  with* 
out  them  they  would  not  have  dared  to  assemble.  Many 
proposals  were  made,  and  long  debates  ensued ;  at  last, 
however,  it  was  determined  to  elect  twelve  of  the  most 


IMPEBSOKAL  ACCOUNTS  635 

respectable  inhabitants,  who  should  entreat  the.  earl's 
pardon  for  the  murder  of  the  bailiff,  and  endeavor  by 
this  means  to  obtain  peace;  but  in  this  peace  every 
person  was  to  be  included,  and  nothing  moved  in  the 
business  hereafter. 

The  resolution  was  acted  upon,  and  on  an  appointed 
day  twelve  citizens  waited  upon  the  earl,  whx)  pleaded 
their  cause  so  well,  and  appeared  so  contrite  that  the 
earl  was  on  the  point  of  pardoning  all  the  outrages  that 
had  been  committed,  when  he  received  information  that 
the  castle  of  Andreghien  had  been  burned  to  the  ground. 
^'Burned!''  replied  the  earl  to  the  messenger  who 
brought  the  intelligence.    **And  by  what  means?" 

*'By  an  accidental  fire,  as  they  say,"  was  the  reply. 

**Ah!  ah!"  answered  the  earl.  *'Now  it  is  all  over; 
there  can  never  be  peace  in  Flanders  while  John  Lyon 
lives." 

Then  sending  for  the  deputies  from  Ghent,  he  said  to 
them,  **  Wretches,  you  supplicate  my  pardon  with  sword 
in  hand<  I  had  acceded  to  your  wishes  and  your  people 
have  been  base  enough  to  bum  down  my  favorite  castle. 
Was  it  not  sufficient  to  have  murdered  my  bailiff  and 
trampled  on  my  banner?  Quit  my  presence  directly; 
and  tell  the  men  of  Ghent  they  shall  never  have  peace 
until  they  shall  have  given  up  to  me  to  be  beheaded 
those  whom  I  shall  point  out." 

The  earl  was  right  in  his  conjecture.  It  was,  indeed, 
John  Lyon  and  a  refractory  band  of  white  hoods  under 
him  whOy  discontented  with  the  proposal  of  the  assembly, 
had  actually  destroyed  the  beautiful  castle  of  Andreg- 
hien while  the  deputies  were  at  Male  in  conference  with 
the  earl.    Of  course  the  poor  deputies  knew  nothing  of 


636  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NABBATIVES 

John  Lyon's  intention;  and,  like  people  perfectly  inno- 
cent, endeavored  to  excuse  themselves,  but  in  vain.  The 
earl  was  now  so  much  enraged  that  he  would  not  listen 
to  them,  and  as  soon  as  they  had  left  he  summoned  all 
the  knights  of  Flanders,  and  every  gentleman  dependent 
on  him,  to  be  advised  by  them  how  he  ooiQd  best  revenge 
himself  on  the  people  of  Ghent. 

This  was  the  very  thing  that  John  Lyon  wanted ;  for 
the  people  of  Ghent  would  now  be  obliged  to  make  war, 
whether  they  liked  it  or  not.  He  therefore  seized  the 
opportunity,  and,  having  collected  the  white  Hoods, 
publicly  harangued  the  people,  and  advised  them  without 
delay  to  get  together  all  the  support  from  neighboring 
towns  they  could,  and  make  an  attack  upon  Bruges. 
Such  even  now  was  his  influence  that  in  a  short  time  he 
mustered  a  very  large  army,  aind  placing  himself  at  their 
head  advanced  to  Bruges,  which  town  was  so  taken  by 
surprise  that  after  a  short  parley  at  the  wicket,  the 
burgomaster  and  magistrates  opened  the  gates  and  the 
men  of  Ghent  entered.  A  formal  alliance  was  then 
drawn  up,  which  the  men  of  Ghent  and  Bruges  mutually 
swore  to  keep,  and  to  remain  forever  as  good  friends  and 
neighbors. 
*'Froissart^B  Chronicles,"  in  World's  Great  Classics  Series. 

A  Short  History  of  Ilagan 
The  town  of  Ilagan  derived  its  name  from  the  in- 
verted form  of  the  Ibanag  word  nagaly,  which  means 
** transfer.''  Why  the  town  was  named  Ilagan  was  the 
fact  that  in  early  times  it  was  moved  to  its  present  loca- 
tion from  a  plain  a  few  miles  away,  which  is  always  over- 
flowed by  the  annual  inundation  pf  the  Cagayan  river. 


IMPERSONAL  ACCOUNTB  637 

The  early  inhabitants  were  well-trained  warriors,  for 
they  had  to  fight  with  the  Igorrotes — ^a  wild  head-hunt- 
ing tribe  in  the  mountains.  Their  religion  was  somewhat 
similar  to  Brahmanism,  for  they  worshijied  the  crocodile 
Eind  practiced  anito  widely.  Even  after  the  Spaiuarda 
same  to  the  town,  the  people  were  barbarous,  and  it  was 
only  after  the  arrival  of  the  Dominicans^  about  1689, 
that  civilization  began  to  spread  itself  among  the  people ; 
for  these  benevolent  friars  established  schools,  converted 
the  pagan  inhabitants  into  Christians,  and  taught  them 
better  modes  of  living. 

Although  the  people  seemed  to  be  contented,  still  it 
was  not  very  long  until  they  began  to  feel  the  heavy 
grasp  of  the  iron  hand  of  Spanish  oppression.  In  1776 
a  revolt  occurred,  and  the  people  in  their  frenzy  burned 
the  church  and  nearly  all  the  Spanish  re^id^i^ces*  The 
causes  of  the  revolt  were  the  high  rates  of  taxation  amd 
the  compulsory  public  labor.  But  the  uprising,  which 
spread  throughout  central  Luzon,  was  soon  quelled,  and 
peace  was  restored. 

Then  followed  a  period  of  advancement  and  progress. 
The  inhabitants  were  for  about  one  hundred  and  thirty 
years  peaceful  During  this  long  period  a  new  ehurph 
was  finished,  in  1787;  the  town  became  the  capital  of  the 
province,  and  commerce  progressed  by  leaps  and  bounds. 
But  in  1897  when  the  news  of  Bizal's  execution,  which 
caused  a  tide  of  pati^iotism  to  sweep  over  the  land,  be- 
came known  to-  the  people,  they  again  revolted,  but 
without  accomplishing  much.  In  the  Filipino- American 
war  the  inhabitants  took  no  active  part,  although,  owing 
to  the  presence  of  a  handful  of  Tagalog  soldiers  from 
Palanan,  then  a  barrio  of  Ilagan,  where  Aguinaldo  was 


638  TYPES  OF  PKOSE  NAERATIVES 

captured,  some  skirmishing  was  done  in  the  barrio  of 
San  Antonio. 

Ilagan  is  situated  on  a  three-cornered  star- 
plateau  at  the  junction  of  the  Pinacanauan  and 
rivers,  about  ninety  miles  from  Aparri.  It  is  diyided 
into  four  districts :  Bagumbayan,  which  occupies  the 
northern  comer  of  the  star ;  Baculod,  the  eastern  corner; 
St.  Vicente,  the  southwestern  corner,  and  Central,  tfe 
center.  The  residences  of  the  rich,  the  municipal  anil 
provincial  buildings,  the  church  and  the  principal  Euro 
pean  and  Chinese  business  houses  are  in  the  central 
district ;  while  the  farmers,  artisans,  shoemakers  aBfl 
other  classes  of  people  inhabit  the  other  districts.  Ii 
the  district  of  St.  Vicente  are  the  ruins  of  the  clinrct 
burned  in  1776.  The  lot  where  it  is  situated  is  j0 
overgrown  with  large  trees,  and  the  crumbling  brick  wal 
which  formed  the  background  of  the  church,  and  is  no^ 
covered  with  moss  and  vines,  remains  as  a  memento  c 
the  uprising. 

The  inhabitants,  being  near  the  Ilocanos,  are  i^ 
dustrious,  and  being  far  from  the  Tagalogs  are  peacefii^ 
But  what  is  to  be  admired  more  than  any  of  their  otk 
characteristics  is  their  political  belief.  The  majority: 
— I  hope  it  will  be  always — ^in  favor  of  the  indefinite  i^ 
tention  of  the  islands  by  America,  the  spread  of  dem 
cratic  education  among  the  people,  and  the  speedy  d^ 
velopment  of  agriculture.  If  the  people  do  not  depa' 
from  their  present  policies,  the  future  history  of  tb 
town  will  be  one  of  happiness. 


IMPERSONAL  ACCOUNTS  639 

A  TRUE  RELATION 
Some  Incidents  of  the  Bebellion  of  1898 

The  Filipino  rebellion  against  Spanish  rule  really 
began  in  the  year  1896,  in  southern  Luzon.  The  north- 
western provinces  rebelled  much  later,  owing  perhaps  to 
the  lack  of  communicaticMi  or  to  some  disagreement 
among  the  leaders  of  certain  districts.  I  was  about  eight 
years  old  at  the  time  the  war  broke  out  in  western 
Pangasinan  and  northern  Zambales,  and  I  write  from 
what  I  saw  with  my  own  eyes,  and  what  was  afterwards 
told  me  by  my  parents  and  older  friends. 

About  the  beginning  of  the  year  1898  the  northwest- 
ern provinces  of  Luzon  became  restless,  seeing  that  their 
brothers  in  Cavite  and  other  southern  provinces  were 
already  in  the  field.  The  Spaniards  grew  more  and  more 
uneasy  and  so  a  detachment  of  from  fifteen  to  twenty 
Spanish  soldiers  was  placed  in  each  town,  in  addition  to 
the  guardia  dvU,  which  was  also  stationed  in  the  large 
towns.  It  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  in  that  war  no' 
quarter  could  be  expected  from  either  side  and  all  the 
prisoners  were  invariably  put  to  death.  So  that  unusual 
cruelty  should  not  be  imputed  to  the  common  Filipino 
fighter  in  the  massacres  which  he  committed. 

Just  about  the  beginning  of  the  yeai?  1898,  some  time 
in  the  month  of  January,  the  people  of  my  town,  as  well 
as  the  neighboring  towns,  agreed  to  massacre  the  de- 
tachment of  soldiers  in  their  respective  municipalities. 
The  agreement  was  kept  a  great  secret,  and  in  my  town 
at  least  the  Spanish  soldiers  had  not  the  slightest  idea 
of  the  fatal  compact. ;  The  day  decided  upon  was  a  cer- 
tain Monday  in  February,  1898,  the  exact  date  of  which 
I  do  not  remember. 


640  TYPES  OP  PROSE  NABRATIVES 

Outside  the  town,  in  the  dead  of  night,  you  would 
find  groups  talking  in  whispers  as  to  the  final  arrange- 
mentB,  for  the  chief  m%n  would  go  to  the  barrios  in  the 
night  and  hold  secret  meetings  in  hidden  and  solitary 
places.  In  the  afternoons  you  would  find  men  grinding 
their  long  bolos  or  talihonffs  in  the  solitude  of  their 
houses.  At  the  same  time  you  would  see  the  women 
making  trousers  and  hat-bands  of  red  cloth  for  their 
husbands  or  brothers.  In  the  meantime  the  Spaniards 
had  a  vague  idea  of  bow  things  were  going  on,  and  be- 
coming rather  uneasy,  they  ordered  a  barricade  of  bam- 
boo to  be  built  around  their  barracks.  The  guardia  civil 
did  the  same,  except  that  iostead  of  bamboo,  they  used 
big  logs,  which  they  made  each  principal  (coimeilor) 
give.  But  unfortunately  the  very  workmen  themselves 
were  rebels,  and  were  the  first  ones  to  strike  the  hlow. 
I  also  remember  clearly  how  the  lieutenant. and  the  town 
friar  forbade  people  to  talk  in  groups  of  three  or  more. 
So  men  walked  in  the  streets  alone  or  with  only  one 
companion,  not  even  daring  to  engage  in.  earnest  con- 
versation. Men  visited  their  friends,  going  to  the  back 
doors  at  night. 

It  must  be  stated  here  that  in  order  to  get  all  the 
able-bodied  men  to  join  the  rebellion  a  form  of  ceremony 
was  gone  through  in  the  case  of  every  single  convert. 
Certain  men  who  were  influential  and  eloquent  were  ap- 
pointed to  do  the  hard  work  of  conversion.  A  leader  of 
this  kind  had  to  coax  and  persuade  men  singly,  at  the 
same  time  taking  care  that  the  Spanish  forces  did  not 
hear  of  his  proceedings.  After  a  man  had  expressed 
his  willingness  to  join,  he  was  made  to  take  a  solemn 
oath,  the  non-fulfilment  of  which  would  bring  upon  him 


IMPEJeSONAL  ACCOUNTS  641 

temporal  and  spiritual  condemnation.  Besides,  his  arm 
was  pricked  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  with  his  own  blood 
he  wrote,  or  else  caused  to  be  written,  his  name  in  a 
large  book.  This  made  the  ceremony  to  the  new  recruit 
exceedingly  impressive. 

One  thing  that  made  men  so  bold  at  that  time  was 
the  belief  in  the  power  of  the  anting  anting  (talisman). 
There  were  two  kinds  of  anting  anting  that  were  bulliet 
proof.  They  were  made  of  flour  like  sacred  bread,  ex- 
cept that  they  were  as  lai^  in  circumference  Only  as  a 
peseta.  Some  Latin  words  were  printed  on  them.  One 
kind  was  eaten,  while  the  other  was  placed  on  the  fore- 
head. So  after  the  town  was  in  the  hands  of  the  revo- 
lutionists, everybody  seemed  to  be  having  a  headache, 
for  they  all  had  their  foreheads  bound  around  with 
handkerchiefs,  or  more  often  with  red  bands  of  cloth. 
I  must  add  that  the  color  of  the  revolution  was  red,  the 
sign  of  blood.  I  remember  that  when  we  left  the  town  to 
hide  in  the  country  I  left  my  expensive  felt  hat,  and  used 
a  cheap  native  sombrero  with  a  red  band  around  it. 
When  the  town  was  again  retaken  by  the  Spaniards 
we  tore  off  all  these  red  signs  and  buried  them  in  the 
ground. 

As  I  have  said,  the  day  agreed  upon  for  the  massacre 
was  Monday.  My  uncle  told  me  the  Spanish  soldiers  in 
town  heard  of  the  people  in  the  barrios  assembling,  but 
they  entirely  ignored  the  danger,  feeling  sure  that  the 
rebels  with  bolos  would  not  by  any  means  dare  to  cope 
with  their  powerful  Mausers.  My  uncle  further  added 
that,  had  the  Spanish  been  discreet,  considering  that  they 
were  twenty-two  in  number,  including  a  lieutenant,  be- 
sides the  town  friar,  they  would  have  fortified  the  con- 


642  TYPES  OP  PBOSB  NARRATIVES 

vent  and  would  have  been  able  to  hold  out  till  reinforce- 
ments from  eastern  Pangasinan  could  come. 

On  the  morning  of  that  fatal  day  I  was  in  the  house 
of  my  grandmother,  which  was  near  the  plaza  where  the 
soldiers  had  their  quarters.  I  could  not  see  the  whole 
of  the  slaughter,  for  my  grandmother  when  she  saw  us 
looking  at  the  fight,  sent  us  to  the  cellar,  and  made  us 
lie  there  flat  on  our  stomachs  to  protect  us  from  spent 
bullets. 

Early  that  morning  about  eight  o'clock  the  guardia 
civil,  hearing  that  there  was  a  great  crowd  of  armed  men 
near  the  town  cemetery  about  a  mile  away,  went  out 
there.  The  guardia  civil  soldiers,  who  were  all  Filipinos, 
were  in  league  with  the  movement,  but  their  sergeant  was 
a  Spaniard.  When  they  saw  the  men  near  the  cemetery 
and  when  the  sergeant  ordered  them  to  fire,  they  did  not 
aim  at  the  rebels.  But  the  rebels  instead,  thinking  that 
the  soldiers  had  changed  their  minds,  fought  in  earnest 
and  kiUed  the  guardia  civil  to  a  man. 

In  the  meantime  the  Spanish  soldiers  in  the  town 
were  being  massacred.  At  the  appointed  time  a  work- 
man who  was  working  on  the  barricade,  gave  the  guard 
a  blow  with  his  axe,  and  the  guard  fell  without  a  groan. 
Then  the  rest  of  the  workmen  went  up  to  the  barracka 
with  the  pretense  of  asking  for  their  pay.  When  the 
big  drum  began  to  beat  they  seized  the  guns  and  hacked 
and  struck  the  unarmed  soldiers. 

The  slaughter  was  indeed  terrible  to  see.  From  all 
the  streets  of  the  town  leading  to  the  public  square  issued 
hundreds  of  men  all  at  the  same  time.  I  think  I  still 
see  those  men  with  red-banded  hats  shouting  at  the  top 
of  their  lungs,  holding  and  wielding  aloft  their  long 


IMPEBSONAL  ACCOUNTS  643 

sharp  bolos,  which  as  they  caught  the  rays  of  the  morn* 
ing  sun  dazzled  our  eyes.  These  men  advanced  toward 
the  barracks  and  there  finished  the  massacre.  Some  of 
the  Spaniards,  deprived  of  their  guns  and  hard  pressed 
by  the  workmen  who  had  gone  up  to  the  barracks, 
jumped  down  from  the  windows ;  but  it  was  like  jump- 
ing from  the  frying  pan  to  the  fire,  for  they  were  met 
by  bristling  swords  and  lances. 

Of  the  twenty-one  soldiers,  four  chanced  to  be  out, 
two  being  in  the  market,  and  two  bein^  in  my  uncle's 
house.  On  hearing  the  tumult  and  seeing  men  issue  from 
all  the  streets  and  alleys,  they  ran  like  mad  to  their 
quarters ;  but  they  were  all*  killed  before  reaching  the 
place.  One  of  the  soldiers  had  a  bayonet  slung  to  his 
belt,  and  drawing  it  he  tried  to  ward  off  the  blows  rained 
upon  him  from  all  sides;  but  in  a  moment  a  shower  of 
clubs  and  stones  laid  him  low.  Some  of  the  soldiers  fell 
<m  their  knees  and  implored  for  mercy,  but  the  blood  of 
those  men,  many  of  whom  had  already  experienced 
cruelty  and  torture  under  the  Spanish  servitude,  was 
boiling  with  vengeance  toward  the  Spaniards  as  a  whole 
people. 

The  lieutenant  was  just  going  from  the  convent, 
where  he  had  his  quarters,  to  the  barracks,  and  on  seeing 
.the  hordes  of  men,  he  turned  back,  ran  tip  in  the  church 
steeple,  and  from  there  with  his  revolver  fired  shot  after 
shot  at  the  multitude  below.  Strange  to  say  he  hit  not 
even  a  man,  p^bably  through  excitement.  The  men, 
seeing  him,  climbed  up  the  tower.  He  surrendered,  knelt 
down  and. threw  away  his  revolver;  but  no  quarter  was 
given.  He  was  cut  all  through  and  his  body  was  thrown 
frDHi  the  dizzy  height  of  about  a  hundred  and  fifty  fleet 


644  TYPES  OP  PBOSE  NAHBATIVES 

to  the  ground.    His  blood,  which  trickled  from  the  tower 
down  the  church  wall  may  still  be  seen  to  this  day. 

In  the  afternoon  two  native  carts  full  of  corpses,  their 
arms  and  legs  dangling  in  the  air,  were  all  that  was  left 
of  those  twenty-two  cazadore^.  I  liked  the  Spanisli 
soldiers,  for  they  were  such  jolly,  good  fellows,  fond  of 
dancing  fandango  and  singing  airs  of  old  Spain.  Many 
of  them  were  mere  boys  seized  and  shipped  over  here 
from  their  unwilling  parents.  To  them  the  only  civilized 
and  good  country  was  Spain,  and  they  often  excited  my 
boyish  fancy  with  exaggerated  descriptions  of  the  won' 
ders  of  Spain  and  extravagant  tales  about  its  people.  So 
as  the  carts  passed  by  our  house  and  I  saw  the  dead 
I  felt  quite  sad,  wondering  within  my  childish  heart 
what  fault  they  had  committed  to  entitle  them  to  suck 
a  sad  end. 

•  The  town  friar,  the  town  tyrant  and  dictator,  1 
now  also  come  to  the  end  of  his  reign.  Men  who  for- 
merly used  to  kneel  to  him  denounced  him  and  gaye 
vent  to  all  their  accumulated  hatred.  The  friar  wa^ 
sentenced  to  death  and  a  few  days  afterwards  was  exe 
cuted  outside  the  town.  The  infuriated  ignorant  peopli 
sacked  the  convent,  which  at  that  time  was  like  a  palace 
They  were  so  enraged  that  even  the  library  of  the  con 
vent  was  burned  and  cut  to  pieces.  A  funny  incident  i 
connected  with  the  convent.  It  was  circulated  aboul 
that  on  the  outbreak  of  the  disturbance  the  friar  hai 
dropped  a  large  box  of  silver  into  one#of  the  conveii 
wells,  of  which  there  were  several.  A  few  y^ms  after  th 
war  some  people  began  to  inquire  as  to  which  of  th 
wells  the  money  had  been  dropped  into ;  for  the  America 
-  '^iers,  on  occupying  the  convent,  filled  up  some  of  th 


IMPEBSONAL  ACCOUNTS  646 

shells.  Finally  there  was  discovered  on  the  trunk  of  a 
antol  tree  growing  near  one  of  the  wells  a  cross  carved 
n  the  wood.  People  said  it  was  the  sign  made  by  the 
riar  to  mark  the  spot,  and  henceforth  began  to  dig  up 
he  well.  They  worked  for  days  and  days  expecting 
very  moment  to  find  the  box,  but  in  vain.  As  a  result 
►f  their  over-credulity  they  expended  a  good  deal  of 
lard  labor.  — Marcelino  Montemayor. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 


LIST  OF  ABBREVUTIONS 

A.  B.—Ariel  Booklets  (G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons). 
Bohn. — Bohn's  Libraries  (Geo.  Bell,  London). 
C.  N.  L.— Casseirs  National  Library  (Cassell). 

B.  L. — Everyman's  Library  (Dent  and  Dutton). 
N.  U.  L. — New  Universal  Library  (E.  P.  Button). 

P.  W.  C— Putnam's  World's  Classics  (G.  P,  Putnam's  Sons). 

T.  C— Temple  Classics  (J.  M.  Dent). 

W.  C. — World's  Classics  (Oxford  University  Press). 

W.  G.  C— World's  Great  Classics  (Colonial  Press). 

GENERAL    REFERENCE    WORKS    ON    TIffi    fflSTORY    OF 

nCTlON 

Dunlop,  History  of  Prose  Fiction,  2  vols.     (Bohn,  1S95). 

Ticknor,  History  of  Spanish  Fiction,  revised  edition  (Boston, 
1866). 

Baleigh,  The  English  Novel  from  its  Origin  to  Sir  Walter 
Scott  (Scribner). 

Cross,  The  Development  of  the  English  Novel  (Macmillan). 

Simonds,  An  Introduction  to  the  Study  of  English  Fiction 
(Heath). 

Warren,  History  of  the  Novel  Previous  to  the  Seventeenth 
Century  (Holt). 

Hamilton,  Clayton,  The  Materials  and  Methods  of  Fiction,  with 
introd.  by  Brander  Matthews  (The  Baker  and  Taylor  Co.) 

Jusserand,  The  English  Novel  in  the  Time  of  Shakespeare 
(Putnam). 

Forsjrth,    Novels    and   Novelists   of   the   Eighteenth   Century 
(Appleton). 
~)^  Matthews,  The  Short- Story  (American  Book  Co.) 

Jessup  and  Canby,  The  Boole  of  the  Short-Story  (Appleton). 

Canby,  H.  S.,  The  Short-Story  in  Enfiish  (Holt). 

Stoddard,  Evolution  of  the  English  Novel  (Macmillan).   > 

Tuckerman,  History  of  English  Prose  Fiction  (Putnam).  V 

In  Lanier's  The  English  Novel,  Whitcomb's  The  Study  of  a 
Novel,  and  Barrett's  Short-Story  Writing  the  criticism  is  analyti- 
cal rather  than  historical. 

647 


648  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

CHAPTER  L     PRIMITIVE  REUGIOUS  GROUP 
Mjtli 

CRITICAL   BOOKS. 

Andrew  Lang,  Ctt^^m  and  Myfh  (Lotgmans).  Max  MQIler, 
Chips  from  a  German  Workshop,  vol.  II  and  IV.  Max  Miiller, 
Last  Essays,  2nd  series.  W.  G.  Wood  Martin,  Traces  of  the  Elder 
Faiths  in  Ireland,  2  vols.  E.  B.  Tylor,  Primitive  Culture.  Laura 
E.  Poor,  Sanscrit  aiu2  Its  Kindred  Literatures.  Jacob  Grimm, 
Teutonic  Mythology, 

DICTIONABIES 

Fernando  Blumentritt,  Dioeionario  Mitoldgioo  de  las  FUipinas, 
Isabelo  de  los  Beyes,  La  Eeligion  Antigua  de  los  Filipinos.  £.  C. 
Brewer,  Dictionary  of  Phrase  and  Fable  (Altemns).  A.  8.  Mur- 
ray, Manual  of  Mythology, 

><JOUJBOTIONS  or  MYTHS  >^ 

Hawthorne's  Wonder  Book  and  Tanglewo^  Tales  (E.  L.). 
The  works  of  Jeremiah  Curtin:  Creation  Myths  of  Primitive 
America;  Myths  and  Fajth-iors  of  Ireland;  Myths  and  Folk-tales 
of  the  Eussians,  Western  Slavs,  and  Magyars;  A  Journey  in 
Southern  Siberia  [the  religion  and  myths  of  the  Mongols].  The 
works  of  C.  M.  Skinner:  American  Myths  and  Legends,  2  vols; 
Myths  and  Legends  of  Our  New  Possessions  and  Protectorates; 
Myths  and  Legends  of  Our  Own  Land,  2  vols. ;  Myths  and  Legends 
Beyond  Our  Borders.  Florence  J.  Stoddard's  As  Old  as  the  Moan 
[Folk-lore  of  the  Antillas]  (Donbleday,  Page);  Myths  of  the 
Quichas.  Guerber's  Myths  of  Greece  and  Eome;  Bullfinch's  Age 
of  Fable;  Katherine  B.  Judson's  Myths  and  Legends  of  the 
Pacific  Northwest  (McClurg) ;  T.  G.  Thrum's  Stories  of  the 
Menehunes  (IdlO). 

Legend  and  Saga 

The  Legends  of  St.  Patrick,  by  Aubrey  de  Vere  (C.  N.  L.); 
H.  A*  Guerber's  Legends  of  Switzerland,  and  Legends  of  the 
Ehine;  Sidney  Lanier's  Boys'  Library  of  Legend  and  Chivalry 
eontains  The  Boy's  King.  Arthur,  The  Boy's  Percy,  and  The 
Knightly  Legends  of  Wales  (Scribners) ;  Selma  Lagerlof 's 
Invisible  Links;  Bxmkin^B  King  of  the  Golden  Biver  (A.  B.); 
Canton's  W»  V.'s  Golden  Legend  (Dodd,  Mead) ;  Finnish  Legends, 
stories  from  the  Kalevala,  told  by  Eivind  (T.  Fisher  Unwin). 
S.  Baring  Gould^s  Curious  Myths  of  the  Middle  Ages  (Longmans) 
are  really  legends.  Hawthorne's  Twice  Told  Tales  includes  a 
number  of  legends.  Mediaeval  Tales  in  Morley's  Universal 
Library  eontains  stories  from  the  G^sta  Eomanorum  and  the  Faust 
legend.    Nutt's  Legends  of  the  Holy  Grail.    Dr.  Whitley  Stokes 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  649 

has  translated  many  of  the  early  Irish  sagas  (Bevue  Celtiqne, 
.    1869-1902,  and  in  Iriache  Texte,  1880-1902).     Kipling's  PucJc  of 

yi(  I^ook's  Hill  [fairy  tale  and  legend]  (Doubleday) ;  Eleanor  H. 
feroadus'  The  Book  of  the  Christ  Child  (Appleton);  Van  Dyke's 
Other  Wise  Man  (Harpers)  is  purely  literary.  The  Story  of 
Grettir  the  Strong,  translated  from  the  Icelandic  by  MagnusSon 

Ny/  and  Morris  (Longmans) ;  The  Volsunga  Saga,  translated  by 
Magnusson  and  Morris  (Scott) ;  Beowulf,  translated  into  modern 
English  prose,  by  J.  Clark  Hall  (Sonnenschein) ;  J.  Baldwin's 
Story  of  Boland  (Scribners) ;  C.  D.  Wilson 'iS  Story  of  the  Cid  for 
Young  People.  The  Nihelungenlied  is  well  translated  in  the 
World  ^s  Great  Classics  Series  and  contains  a  good  introduction. 
Orlando  Furioso,  translated  by  W.  S.  Rose  (Bohn).  The  Mabi- 
Motion,  translated  by  Lady  Charlotte  Guest  (^utt) ;  The  Stories 
of  the  Bamayana  and  Mahdbharaia,  told  by  Oman  (Bohn).  An 
English  translation  of  the  Shah  Nameh  may  be  found  in  Oriental 
Literature  (W.  G.  C). 

Faiiy  Tale  and  Nnrseiy  Sagn 

CoHeetors  have  not  distinguished  carefully  between  fairy  tales 
and  nursery  sagas.  Many  of  the  collections  cited  as  fairy  tales 
contain  nursery  sagas.    A  general  term  often  need  to  include  both 

\is  folk-tales;  Tolstoy  has  re-done  several  of  the  Russian  Mk 
stories,  which  may  be  found  in  Twenty-three  Tales  from  Tolstoy, 
translated  by  L.  &  F.  Maude  (W.  C).  T.  G.  Thrum's  Hawaiian 
Folk-Tales;  F.  H.  Cualamg'B  Zuiii  Folk-Tales  (Futnam)  ;  Blue,  Ked, 
Green,  Gray,  Yellow,  Pink,  Violet,  Crimson,  and  Brown  Fairy 
Books,  edited  by  A,  Lang  (Longmans).  The  Fairy  Library 
(Putnam),  collected  and  edited  by  Joseph  Jacobs,  contains  EngliSh, 
Celtic,  Indian,  Eas*  Indian,  Persian,  Chinese,  South  Sea  Island, 
African,  and  Japanese  fairy  tales.  W.  R.  S.  Ralston 's  Bmsian 
Fairy  and  Folk  Tales  (Hurst) ;  English  Fairy  and  Folk  Ttiles, 
edited  by  E.  S.  Hartland  (Scott) ;  Scottish  Fairy  and  Folk  Tales, 
edited  by  Sir  Geo.  Douglas  (Scott);  Irish  Fairy  and  Folk  Tales, 
\  edited  by  W.  B,  Yeats  (Scott) ;  Grimm's  Household  Tales  in  any 
\  of  the  good  editions  (E.  L.,  Lippineott,  Bohn) ;  Hane  Dhristian 
V Andersen's  Fairy  Tales  (E.  L-).  Burt's  Fairy  Library  includes 
among  others  Cossack  Fairy  Tales,  Bussian  Fairy  Tales,  Turkish 
Fairy  Tales,  Fairy  Gold,  stories  chosen  by  E.  Rhys  (E.  L.). 
Thomas  Keightley's  Fairy  Mythology  (Bohn)  is  a  standard  refer- 
ence work.    Alfred  Nutt's  Fairy  Mythology  of  Shakespeare  (1900). 

CHAPTER  II.     SYMBOUCDIDACnC  GROUP 
Fabl« 

Thomas  Newbigging's  Fables  and  Fabulists J(:^ew  York),  crit- 
ical and  historical  discussion  of  writers  of  the  type. 

Fables  in  the  Bible,  Judges  9:8-15;  II  Kings  14;  9.    KalUah 


660  BIBLIOGBAPHT 

and  Dimnah,  or  the  Fables  of  Bidpai:  an  hiatorieal  aceonnt  with 
a  translation  into  English,  hj  Keith  Falconer  (London,  1885) ; 
Hitopadeaa  (The  Book  of  Good  Counsels),  translated  by  Sir  Edwin 
Arnold:     Oriental  Literature,  -voL  Ul  (W.  G.  C),  also  in  N.  U. 

\f  L.;  Aesop's  Fables  (Astor  Library,  Crowell;  P.  W.  C.) ;  Fables 
of  Phaedrus,  translated  into  prose  and  verse   (Bohn) ;  La  Fon- 

-  y taine's  Fables  (T.  C,  Bohn);  Iriarte's  Literary  Fables  (first 
publ.  1782),  English  version  by  Rockliffe,  3rd  edition,  1866;  Gay's 
Fables,  in  Muses  Library  (Dutton) ;  Bichard  Steele's  Mastiff  and 
His  Puppy  (Tatler,  No.  115) ;  Kriloff  and  His  Fables,  translated 
by  J.  B.  8.  Balston  (J.  S.  Ogilvie,  N.  Y.);  Turkish  Fables  [46  in 
number],  translated  by  Epiphanius  Wilson:  Turkish  Literature 
(W.  G.  C). 

ParaU« 

R.  C.  Trench,  Notes  on  the  Parables  of  Our  Lord. 

Parables  of  the  Bible:  II  Samuel  12:1-4;  14:5-7;  I  Kings 
20:39-40;  Isaiah  5:1-6;  28:23-28;  Matthew  13:4-7,  24-33;  18: 
23-35;  20:1-16;  21:33-41;  22:1-14;  26:1-13;  25:14-30,  31-46. 

For  a  summary  of  Barlaam  and  Josaphat,  see  Dunlop  's  Biatory 
of  Fiction,  vol.  I,  pp.  64-77. 

Hamilton  W.  Mabie's  Parables  of  Life,  A  number  of  the 
ftfries  in  Twenty-three  Tales  from  Tolstoy  (W.  C). 

Allegory 

James  Baldwin's  The  Famous  Allegories  (Silver,  Burdett); 
Olive  Schreiner's  Dreams;  Oscar  Wilde's  Poems  in  Prose,  (Fort- 
nightly Review,  1894),  also  in  Ideal  Series  of  Little  Masterpieces; 
Everyman,  and  eight  other  Moralities  (E.  L.)  ;  He^b»  Van  Dyke's 
Blue  Flower  (Scribners) ;  Hawthorne's  Twice  ^ToW  Tales  and 
^^  Mosses  from  an  Old  Manse  (Houghton).  Alfred  de  Musset's 
Story  of  a  White  Blackbird  (Brentano)  is  a  unique  and  daring 
autobiographical  allegory. 

CHAPTER  UL     INGENIOUS-ASTONISHING  GROUP 

Tale  of  Mere  Wonder 

Meredith's  Shaving  of  Shag  pat  (Boxhill  edition) ;  Stevenson's 
"^  New  Arabian  Nights,  and  More  New  Arabian  Nights  (Scribners) ; 
H.  W.  Weber's  Tales  of  the  East,  3  vols.  (Edinburgh,  1812); 
Dandin's  Hindoo  Tales  (London,  1873);  S.  Julien's  Nouvelles 
Chinoises  (Paris,  I860).  History  of  the  Forty  Vesfirs,  Turkish 
tales  translated  by  Epiphanius  Wilson :  Turkish  Literature, .  pp. 
361-460  (W.  G.  C).  Egyptian  Tales,  translated  by  W.  F.  Petrie: 
Egyptian  Literature,  pp.  135-177  (W.  G.  C).  Moorish  Tales, 
translated  by  Bene  Basset,  Chauncey  Starkweather,  and  others: 
Moorish  Literature  (W.  G,  C).     Tales  of  the  Genii,  trftnslated 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  651 

from  the  Peman  by  Sir  Charles  Morell  (Bohn)  >  ^raUan  Nights' 
^Entertainments,  edited  by  Stanley  Lane-Pool,  in  6  vols.  (A.  B.),  or 
in  4  vols.  (Bohn) ;  The  Golden  A»8,  by  Apuleius  (Bohn). 

Imaginary  Voyage  \l^tli  a  Satiric  or  InstructiTe  Purpose 

Lucian's  Trips  to  the  Moon  (C.  N.  L.  No.  71) :  More's  Utopia 
(T.  C);  Bacon ^s  New  Atlantis  (Bohn);  Barclay's  Argenis,  Eng- 
lish translation  by  Sir  B.  Le  Grys,  1629;  Swift's  Gulliver's 
Travels  (T.  C).  For  Swift's  obligations  to  previous  writers,  see 
article  by  Borkowsky  in  **Anglia,"  vol.  15.  F.  C.  Sibbern  (1785- 
1872),  a  Scandinavian  writer,  wrote  "Contents  of  a  MS.  of  the 
year  2,135."  The  Adventures  of  Baron  JM}unchansen,  by  Rudolphe 
Eric  Baspe  (P.  W.  C.) ;  Bobinson  Crusoe,  in  Defoe 's  Works,  vol. 
7  (Bohn).  V 

For  summaries  of  the  imaginary  voyages  of  Lucian,  Holberg, 
Cyrano  de  Bergerac,  Berkeley,  and  others,  see  Dunlop  Uistory  of 
Prose  Fiction,  vol.  II,  pp.  518-538,  588-591,  619-622  (Bohn,  revised 
edition,  1896). 

Tale  of  Scientific  DiscoTory  and  of  Mechanical  InTention 

H.  G.  Wells's  stories  and  novels  are  good  examples  of  the 
pseudo-scientific  tale.  His  imaginary  voyages  are  not  without 
gentle  satire  on  the  learned  theories  of  the  day  (Scribners,  Har- 
pers, Century).  ''With  the  Night  Mail;  a  Stoiy  of  2000  A.  D.," 
by  Budyard  Kipling  (Doubleday,  1909) ;  The  Uystery^  by  Stewart 
Edward  White  and  Samuel  Hopkins  Adams.  Most  of  the  short 
stories  of  this  type  mentiened  in  the  discussion  can  be  found  in 
the  collections  of  short  stories  (see  below). 

The  Detective  Story  and  Other  Tales  of  Mere  Plot 

Among  the  earliest  detective  stories  and  stories  of  crime  belongi 
Charles  Brockden  Brown's  Edgar  Huntley  and  Arthur  Mervyn\/^ 
(Works,  Philadelphia,  1877).    Edgar  Allan  Poe's  famous  detective 
stories  have  been  mentioned  in  the  text.    Emile  Gaboriau  (1835- 
1873)  popularised  the  story  of  crime  in  France.     M«  Lecoq  is  a 
.   direct  forerunner  of  Sherlock  Holmes.     His  Works  ara  pifcl*  ' 
N\(in  English  translation)  in. 6  vols.    A.  Conan  Dojde's  Adven  _ 
of  Sherlock  Holmes^  Memoir^/  Sherlock  Holmes^he  Heturn    , 
Sherlock  HolmesSXhe  Sign  ofnhe  Four,  A  Study  in  Scarlet,  The 
Hound  of  the  Bast^ervilles,  etc.,  are  worth  reading.    Anna  Katber- 
ine  Green  surely  does  not  lack  popularity  whatever  else  she  may 
lack.     Her  earlier   stories   are  better   than  h^   later,  with   the 
exception  of  The  Filigree  Ball,  which  is  perhaps  her  best.    Mere- 
dith Nicholson's  House  of  a  Thousand  Candles  has  a  good  myste- 
rious plot.     The  works  of  Bodrigues  Ottolengui   (Putnam).     For 
other  stories  of  pure  plot  see  writers  meutioned  in  bibliography 
to  Chapter  VI, 


652  BIBLIOGBAPHY 

CHAPTER  IV.     THE  ENTERTAINING  GROUP 
Tale  of  Probable  Adyenture  . 


Tales  of  JDdm^  and  Danger,  by  G.  A.  Heaty^   F.   H.  Spear 

man's  Held  forffrders;  Tales  of  Railroad  Life  <McCIure),  Nerve 
of  Foley  and  other  Railroad  Stories  ( Harpers )y^y  'Warman's 
The  Last  Spike  and  Other  Railroad  Stories  and  TheSExpress  Mes- 
senger (Scribners)  ;  Stewart  Edward  White's  Blazed  Trail  Stories 
and  Stories  of  the  Wild  Life  (Doubleday).  Many  of  B.  L.  Steven- 
son's tales. 

The  Society  Story 

This  is  the  type  of  the  larger  number  of  love  tales  in  current 
periodicals.  When  well  done  under  certain  restrictions  of  length 
and  development  a  narrative  of  this  kind  rises  to  the  class  of  tie 
artistic  short-story. 
,V-'  Pastoral  Romance — Aucassin  and  Nicoletie,  translated  by 
^Andrew  Lang  (Chiswick  Series)  ;  GreeJc  Romances  of  Heliodorvs, 
LonguSj  and  Achilles  Tatius  (Bohn)  ;  Cervantes'  Galatea  is  a  typical 
example.  It  is  published  in  English  translation  in  Bohn's 
Libraries.  Montemayor  's  Diana  is  summarized  rather  fully  in 
Dunlop  II,  pp.  365-376.  For  Sidney's  pastoral  see  E.  A.  Baker's 
edition  of  the  Countess  of  Pembroke 's  Arcadia,  Lodge 's  Rosalind 
(C.  N.  L.).  For  historical  criticism  of  the  type,  see  E.  K.  Cham- 
bers' English  Pastorals  (Warwick  Library),  W.  W. "Greg's  Pastoral 
Poetry  and  Pastoral  Drama,  1906,  and  J.  B*  Fletcher's  The  Pas- 
toral (Types  of  English  Literature,  Houghton  Mifflin  &  Co.)» 

The  Humorous  Story 

As  in  the  case  of  the  society  story,  the  best  collections  of  humor- 
ous stories  are  the  cheaper  current  magazines. 

Fableaux-^A.  de  Montaiglon  et  G.  Baynaild,  Receuil  general  ei 
complet  des  fabliaux  des  XIII§  et  XIV§  sieclesy  Paris,  1872-88, 
6  vols.    See  Dunlop,  History  of  Fiction,  vol.  II,  p.  23  et  seqq. 

Picaresque  romances — Romances  of  Roguery^  by  F.  W.  Chan- 
dler, 2  vols.,  1^99,  is  the  standard  book  of  criticism  of  the  type. 
For  the  picaresque  romances  themselves,  see  Petromus  Arbiter's 
Satyricon,  English  translation  (Bohn) ;  ApuleilM*  Golden  Ass, 
English  translation  (Bohn).  English  translations \f  Lazarillo  de 
Tormes,  by  Eoscoe,  and  Gwsman  d'Alfarache,  by  Bkandy,  can  be 
obtained  from  Lemcke  and  Buechner  (N-  Y.).  G^Blas,  2  vols. 
(W.  C.)  ;  Smollett's  Roderick  Ran^m,  Peregrine  PicMe,  Ferdi- 
nand, Count  Fathom,  in  works,  edited  by  Saintsbury  (London, 
1895);  Fielding's  Jonathan  Wild,  in>»orks,  edited  by  Saintsbury 
(London,  1893)  ;  Tha<*eray's  Barry  Lyndon.  (Macmillan) ;  E.  W. 
Hornung's  Amateur  Cracksman  (Tauchaitz)  awi  Further  Adven- 
tures of  the  Amateur  Cracksman^ 


BIBLIOGBAPHY  653 

The  Occasional  Story 

Christmas  Stories  from  the  French  and  Spanish,  translatecl  b«  . 
Antoinette  Ogdeu  (McClurg,  1892).  K^E.  Hale's  In  His  Name^ 
and  Christmas  Stories  (Library  edition) ;  Stockton's  The  Christmas 
Wreck  (Seiners);  Dickeps'  Christmas  Bo^  €md  Stories,  2  vols. 
(Houghton)  ^Thackeray's  Christmas  Books  (Macmillan).  The 
source  of  the  nineteenth  century  emphasis  of  Christmas  festivities 
in  English  was  Irving 's  Christmas  Sketches,  TJnter  dem  Christ- 
haum  (Heath)  coiftains  Hr^  ^rtJ^tqjas  stories  by  Helexie  Stokl. 

CHAPTER  V.     THE  INSTRUCTIVE  GROUP 

The  Mord  Stoiy 

Edgeworth's    Stories    for    Children  \Bohn),    M}oral    Stories, 

(Taucbnitz),  If wrad  the  Unlucky  (C.  N.  IV^;  Gesta  Eomanorum 

(P.  W.  C,  Bohn)  ;  Forty  Tales  from  the  "JJlcameron*^  (Morley's 

Universal  Library) ;  Basselas,  by  Samuel  Johnson  (P.  W.  C,  A.  B., 

Burt);  Voltaire's  Tales  (Bohn);  Cervantes'  Novelas  Fjemplares, 

translated  Into  English  by  W.  K.  Kelly  (Bohn)  ;  Essays  and  Tales, 

from  Addisiui  (C.  N.  L.) ;  Essays  and  Tales,  from  Steele  (C.  N. 

^L.);    Twenty 'three   Tales,   from   Tolstoy    (W.   C);    Hawthorne's 

'^\^Twiee  Told  Tales  (Houghton).    Leopoldo  Alas^s  Cuentos  Morales 

\(in    Spanish),    and    Emilia    Pardo-Bazan 's   Novelas    Ejemplares 

(also  in  Spanish).  ' 

The  Pedagogical  Commentary  and  Story 

Pestalozzi  ^s  Leonard  and  Gertrude  (Heath)  ;  Ascham  's  Schole- 
master  (Heath);  Machiavelll^s  Frince  (Oxford,  W.  C.)  ;  Thomas 
Elyot's  The  Soke  Named  the  Governour,  edited  by  Croft,  2  vols. 
(London,  1883) ;  Ascham 's  Toxophilus  (Arber's  Reprints);  Wal- 
ton's Compleat  Angler  (editions  innumerable);  Castiglione 's 
Courtier;  Froebel:  The  Mottoes  and  Commentaries  of  FroeheVs 
Mother  Play  (Appleton). 

The  "Story  of  Present  Day  Realism 

Kipling's  Life's  Handicap  and  Plain  Tales  from  the'  Eilts 
(Doubleday)  ;  William  Carleton^s  Traits  and  Stories  of  the  Irish 
Peasantry,  edited  by  D.  J.  O'Donoghue,  4  vols.  (London  and  New 
York,  1896);  Edgeworth's  Cas^e  Backrent  and  Other  t%ish  Tales 
(A.  B.) ;  O.  Henry's  Trimmed  Lrnnp  and  Other  Stories  ofHhe  Four 
Million;  3.  MaJtthew'g  Vignettes  of  Manhattan  .(Harp^;  W.  D. 
Howells'  A  Modern  in^ance  (Houghton),  The  Lady  ofHhe  Aroo- 
stook, The  Bise  of  Silaif  Lapham,  etc.;  Israel  Zangwill's  Children 
of  the  Ghetto  (Macmillan)  ;  Upton  Sinclair's  The  Jungle  (1806) ; 
Jacob  A.  Riis's  Children  of  the  Tenements;  'Eeniy  Jailifes'  D4iisy 


654  BIBLIOGBAPHY 

MiUer  (Harpers).  Count  Tolstoy's  method  is  always  realistic, 
although  his  types  are  extremely  varied;  see  A  Bussian  Proprietor 
and  Other  Stories  (Oowell).  In  method  at  least,  most  of  the 
stories  of  Bret  Harte,  Mary  E.  Wilkins  Freeman,  and  Hamlin  Gar- 
land are  of  this  type.  In  his  Kriegsnovellen  (Berlin,  1899)  Detlev 
von  Liliencron  gives  vigorous  and  sincere  pictures  of  the  Franco- 
German  war,  though  he  sees  with  the  eye  of  the  poet  and  selects 
his  material. 


V: 


CHAPTER  VI.  THE  SHORT  STORY 

Collections  of  Short  Stories 


\ 


.     Stories  by  American  Authors,  10  vols.  (Scribners). 

V  Stories  by  English  Authors,  9  vols.  (Scribners). 

>j  Stories  by  Foreign  Authors,  containing  works  from  the  French, 
German,  Italian,  Hussian,  Scandinavian,  Spanish,  Polish,  Greek, 
Belgian,  Hungarian,  10  vols.  (Scribners).  Tales  from  "BlacJc- 
wood/'  2  vols.  (Tauchnitz).  Masterpieces  of  Fiction,  8  vols. 
(Doubleday,  Page).  American  Short  Stories ^  edited  by  Charles  S. 
Baldwin  (Wampum  Library  of  American  Literature).  A  selection 
of  the  World's  Greatest  Short  Stories,  edited  by  Sherwin  Cody 

A  (World's  Best  Series).  The  Short  Story,  by  Brander  Matthews 
(American  Book  Co.),  contains  twenty-three  short  stories.  The 
Booh  of  the  Short  Story,  by  Jessup  and  Canby  (Appleton),  con- 
tains eighteen  representative  examples.  For  bibliography  of  other 
*  collections  of  the  short  stories  of  the  world,  see  lists  at  the  ends 
of  the  chapters  in  Jessup  and  Canby. 

\  The  Psychological  Weird  Tale  \. 

\^E.  A.  Poe's  Prose  Tales,  3  toIb.  (Illustrated  Sterling  dOUion). 
The  Odd  Number  Series  contains  Maupassant's  Odd  Nnmher. 
-Mary  E.  Wilkins'  The^ind  in  the  Bose-BmK  »»d  oth£X  Stories  of 
the  Supernatural  (1903);  Irving 's  Tales  of  a^Traveller,  2  vofe^ 
(A.  B.);  Modem  Ohosts,  edited  by  G.  W.  Curtis  (Harpers,  1890). 
Gothic  RomancI^as  Souece.  Horace  Walpole's  Ccistle  of 
Otranto  (C.  N.  L.  No.  10) ;  Clara  Reeve's  The  Old  English  Baron 
(C.  N.  L.,  No.  127);  Mrs.  Radcliffe's  It<aian,  Romance  of  the 
Forest,  and  Mysteries  of  Udolpho  (London,  1877) ;  Lewis  'a  The 
Monk  (Phila.,  1884);  Mrs.  Shelley's  Frankenstein  (Routledge's 
Pocket  Library).  Peacock  satirized  the  school  of  terror  and  other 
forms  of  romance  in  Nightmare  Ahhey  (E.  L.),  and  Crotchet 
Castle  (C.  N.  L.  No,  56). 

Miscellaneous  Short-Story  Writers  of  Europe  en^  America 

SPAIN 

VPedro  Antonio  de  Alarcon  (1833-1891). 
Leopoldo  Alas  (1852-1901). 


\ 


y  Edmond  About  (1828-1885). 
X  >  Honore  de  Balzac  (1799-1850). 


^^^t»vk    Sj^(Ax.*.K    .^o7Tr,  >  *S«JL   9l^    >A  VM-^^^   '?-<^<f-^A^£*tv^ 

'  BIBLIOGRAPHY  655 

Emilia  Pardo-Bazdn  (b.  1851). 
Gustavo  Adolf 0  Becquer  (1836-1870), 
^'V Vicente  Blasco  Ibailez  (b.  1867). 
VFern&n  Caballero  (1796-1877). 
Benito  P^rez  Gald6s  (b.  1845). 
Antonio  de  Trueba  (1819-1889). 
Juan  Valera  y  Alcalfi,  Galiano  (b,  1824). 
Armand  Palacio  Valdes  (b.  1853). 
Antonio  Mar^.--.^  7^ 

\  •  FRANCE 

>  Paul  Bourget  (b.  1852). 
>V  Francois  Coppee  (b.  1842). 

V  Alphonse  Daudet  (b.  1840). 
y  Gustav  Droz  (b.  1832). 
\  Alexandre  Dumas  the  Elder  (1806-1870). 

A^  Alexandre  Dumas  the  Younger    (1824-1895). 
\Emile  Erckmann  (1822-1899)  and  Alexandre  Chatrian  (1826- 
1890). 
.  \Gustave  Flaubert  (1821-1880). 
Vv/Theophile  Gautier  (1811-1872). 
>Paul  Margueritte  (b.  1860).^4.Oi.?*i^./C(,  A*'    Pi  iy    /'  N 
v/Ludovic  Hal6vy  (b.  1834).    "^  «-«^(.>  A*    /    U.i^J 

y  Guy  de  Maupassant   (1850-1893). 
N.V  Prosper  M6rim6e  (1803-1870). 

V  Alfred  de  Musset   (1810-1851). 
\  Eugene  Marcel  Provost  (b.  1862). 
^  George  Sand  [pseud,  of  Mm.  Dudevant]   (1804-1876). 

V  Julien  Viaud  (''Pierre  Loti")   (b.  1850). 
vEmile  Zola  (b.  1840). 


>yBerthold  Auerbach  (1812-1882). 
\VRudolf  Baumbach  (b.  1840). 


\  GERMANY 

VAdelbert  von  Chamisso  (1781-1831). 
\  Gu^av  Freytag  (1816-1895). 
vWilhelm  Hauff  (1802-1827). 
^Paul  Heyse  (b.  1830). 

V  Ernst  Theodor  Amadeus  Hoffmann  (1776-1822). 

V  Leopold  Kompert  [Austrian!   (1822-1886). 
Detlev  von  Liliencron  (b.  1844). 
Johann  Karl  August  MusSus  (1735-1787). 
Joseph  Victor  von  Scheffel  (1826-1886). 

\    Theodor  Storm  (1817-1888).       ' 
▼  Hermann  Sudermann  (b.  1857). 
J.  Ludwig  Tieck  (1773-1853). 
\,  Johann  Heinrich  Daniel  Zschokke  (1771-1848). 


656  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

RUSSIA 

V  Alex.  Bestiezheff  (1797-1837). 
\Nicolai  V.  Gogol  (1809-1852). 
^Alex.  Poushkin  (1802-1837). 

^^  A.  Pyeshkoff  ['*  Gorky  ^']   (b.  1868). 

V  A.  P.  Tch^hoff  (1860-1904). 
^  Lyof  N.  Tolstoi  (1828-1910). 
Ni  Ivan  Turgenev  (1818-1883). 

SCANDINAVIA 

^  Bjornstjerne  Bjornson  (b.  1832). 
N^Juhani  Aho. 

vFrederika  Bremer  (1801-1865). 

\Meyer  Aaron  Goldschmidt  [Danish]   (1819-1887). 

Nr  Alex.Lange  Kielland  (b.  1849). 

N.  Selma  Lagerlof  (b.  1858). 

s^  Hans  Christian  Andersen  [Danish]  (1805-1875). 

ENGLAND,    SCOTLAND,   IRELAND,  UNITBD   STATES 

^  Thomas  Bailey  Aldrich  (1836-1907). 
^  James  Matthew  Barrie  (b.  1860). 

,H.  C.  Bunner  (1855-1896). 

i  George  W.  Cable  (b.  1844). 

^  William  Canton  (b.  1845). 

''William  Carleton  (1794-1869). 
Ni  Samuel  L.  Clemens  [Mark  Twain]    (1835-1910). 
S/  Wilkie  Collins  (1824-1889). 
^  Richard  Harding  Davis  (b.  1864). 

V  Charles  Dickens  (1812-1870). 
St  A,  Conan  Doyle  (b.  1859). 

4  Maria  Edgeworth  (1767-1849). 

:  Edward  Eggleston  (1837-1902). 

.  Mary  Ann  Evans  [George  Jiliot]   (1819-1880). 
N  Hamlin  Garland  (b.  1860). 

>^Edward  Everett  Hale  (1822-1909). 

-  Joel  Chandler  Harris  (b.  1848). 
N  Thomas  Hardy  (b.  1840). 
^  Francis  Bret  Harte  (1839-1902). 

MNathaniel  Hawthorne  (1804^864). 

V  Anthony  Hope  Hawkins  (b.  1863). 
.-  William  Dean  Howells  (b.  1837). 

N^ Washington  Irving  (1783-1859). 
V  Henry  James  (b.  1843). 
t  Sarah  Orne  Jewett  (b.  1849). 
v^vRudyard  Kipling  (b.  1865). 

V  Charles  J.  Lever  (1806-1872). 
'v  Jack  London  (b.  1876). 


V 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  557 


V  -  Samuel  Lover  (1791-1868). 

V  James  Brander  Matthews  (b.  1852). 
.     George  Meredith  (1828-1909). 

NMary  N.  Murfree  [Charles  Egbert  Craddock]  (b.  1850). 
\Fitz- James  O'Brien  (1828-1862). 

V  Thomas  Nelson  Page  (b,  1853). 
VEdgar  Allan  Poe  (1809-1849). 
\i.  Charles  Beade  (1814-1884). 

V  Robert  Louis  Stevenson   (1850-1894). 

V  F.  Hopkinson  Smith  (b.  1838). 
>^ Frank  E.  Stockton  (J834-1902). 

V  Louise  de  la  Ram6e  ['*Ouida"]   (d.  1909). 
N  Harriet  Beecher  Stowe  (1812-1896). 

V  William  Makepeace  Thackeray  (1811-1862)^^    , 

>si  Elizabeth  Stuart  Phelps  Ward  (b.  1844y.^-v.^^^u/^>.  /),    r, 
\  John  Watson  [Ian  Maelaren]    (1850-1907).  1  ^  '^^^'  ^  *  ^  < 

V  Edith  Wharton  (b.  1862). 

\,  Mary  E.  Wilkins  Freeman  (b.  1862) 


CHAPTER  VU 

Ineident 

Many  well-told  and  interesting  incidents  are  found  in  the  cor- 
^i;e8pondence  of  the  letter- writers  whose  works  are  indicated  below. 
^  Tlie  Letters  of  Sobert  Louis  Stevenson,  2  vols.  (Scribners) ; 
The  Letters  of  Thomas  Gray,  2  vols.  (Bohn) ;  Cowper*s  Letters^ 
edited  by  E.  V.  Lucas  (^.  C.) ;  Lady  Montagues  Letters  (E.  L.)  ; 
Letters  and  Memorials  of  Jane  Welsh  Carlyle,  by  J.  A.  Froude.  2 
vols.  (Scribners) ;  Letters  of  Charles  Lamb,  2  vols.  (E.  L.) ;  Let- 
ters of  Mrne.  de  SMgne  (In  French — Paris,  1844) ;  Life  and  Let- 
ters of  George  Eliot,  by  J.  W.  Cross,  2  vols.  (Crowell)  ;  Matthew 
Arnold's  Letters,  collected  by  George  W.  E.  Russell  (MacmjUan) ; 
Darwin's  Life  and  Letters,  2  vols.  (Appleton) ;  Letters  of  Bobert 
Browning  and  Elizabeth  Barrett  Browning,  with  notes  by  R.  Bor- 
rett  Browning  and  F.  G.  Kenyon,  2  vols. 


Anecdote 

Spence's  Anecdotes:  a  selection  (Scott  Library);  Johnsoniana, 
edited  by  J.  Wilson  Croker  (Philadelphia,  1842);  The  Percy 
Anecdotes,  by  Reuben  and  Sholte  Percy  (Warne:  London);  The 
Jest  Boole,  by  Mark  Lemon  (Cambridge,  1865) ;  Anecdotes  of 
Samuel  Johnson,  by  Hester  Lynch  Poizzi  (C.  N.  L.  No.  106) ; 
Familiar  Anecdotes  of  Sir  Walter  Scott,  by  James  Hogg  (Harpers^ 
1834). 


Q60  ^IBLIOGRAPHY 

\ boa's  Decline  a%d  Fall  of  the  Boman  Empife,  7  vols.   (W.  C); 
Motley's  Bise  of* the  Dutch  Bepuhlic,  3  vols.    (E.  L.,  W.  C);  -.- 
Sismondi's   Italian  Bepnhlics    (E.    L.) ;    Hallam's   Middle   Ages  XI 
(W.  G.  C);  Prescott's  Works,  14  vols.  (LipplliUULi; }  1  ttiilUlHrV""* 
WorJcSf  12  vols.  (Library  edition)  ;  J.  A.  Symond's  Benaissance  in 
Itaiy,  7  vols.  (Holt)y(Carlyle'B  Fr€nc)CSBevolution,  2  vols.  (E.  L.). 

AnnaU 

Tacitus 's  Annals  (E.  L.) ;  Annals  of  English  History,  by 
Koger  de  Hoveden,  2  vols.  (Bohn).  Anglo-Saxon  Chronicle,  with 
an  English  translation  by"  Richard  Price:  in  the  "Monumenta 
Historica  Britannica''  (1848).  Voltaire's  Annale^  de  I 'Empire 
was  first  published  in  1753-4.  It  has  been  translated  into  Eng- 
lish. 

Chronicles  and  True  Relation* 

Chronica  Joeelini  de  Srdkelonda,  de  rebus  gestis  Samsonis 
Ahhaiis  Monasterii  Sancti  Edmundi  (Cainden  Society,  London, 
1840).  The  second  book  of  Carlyle's  Past  and  Present  is  based  on 
this  old  chronicle.  Froissart's  Chronicles  (E.  L.);  William  of 
Malmesbury  's  Chronicles  of  the  Kings  of  England  (Bohn)  ;  Old 
English  Chronicles,  including  Ethelwerd's  Chronicle,  Geoffrey  of 
Monmouth's  History  of  the  Britons,  Gildas's  Chronicle,  Nennius's 
Chronicle,  and  the  spurious  Chronicle  of  Richard  of  Cirencester, 
(Bohn) ;  Chronicles  of  the  Crusades,  by  Lord  John  de  Joinville 
(Bohn). 

Ticknor  discusses  in  detail  the  origin,  subjects,  and  character 
of  the  Spanish  chronicles,  in  his  History  of  Spanish  Literature, 
Vol.  L  pp.  166-228  (fourth  American  edition,  Houghton,  Miffin  & 
Co.).  For  account  of  early  French  chronicles  see  Saintsbury's 
Short  History  of  French  Literature,  Book  I,  chapter  XI  (Oxford, 
1907). 

Blair  and  Robertson's  The*Philippine  Islands,  1493-1898,  in  55 
vols.  (A.  H.  Clark  Co.,  1905)  contains  many  eaily  Spanish  rela- 
tions translated  into  English.  Among  the  notable  ones  are 
Loarca's  Jtelacion  (vol.  5),  Chirino's  Beladon  (vols.  12-13), 
Morga's  Sucesos  (vols.  15-16),  Medina's  Historia  de  la  Orden  dd 
8,  Agustin  (vols.  23-24). 


INDEX 


Abbott,  Jacob  (1803-1879),  364. 

Abou   Ben   Adhem,    102. 

Actual     adventure,     Tale     of: 

,  512-513 ;  characteristics,  512 ; 

directions  for  writing,  513. 

Addison,    Joseph     (1672-1719), 
86,  115,  347. 

Address    of    the    Soul    to    the 
Body,  115. 

Ade,  George  (b.  1866),  86. 

Adventures  of  Sherlock  SolmcSf 
225. 

Adventures;    see   Probable    ad- 
venture ;    Actual    adventure. 

Aesop  (6191-564  B.  C),  83-84. 

Aikin,  John,  M.  B.  (1747-1822), 
116. 

Aitken,  George,  371. 

Alberich,  46. 

Aldrich,     T.     B.     (1836-1907), 
301. 

Alfred    the    Great,    (848-9Q1), 
532. 

Alfonso  the  Wise  (1221-1284); 
627. 

Alice  in  Wonderland,  67. 

Allegory:  112-150, 154,  345;  de- 
fined, 112,  117;  combined  . 
with  myth,  113-114;  distin- 
guished from  myth,  6;  dis- 
tinguished from  parable,  116 ;. 
how  to  .write, .  117-118 ;  dis- 
tinguished from  fable,  117, 

Amateur  Craclcsihan,  301. 

Ambitious  Guest,  346,  459. 

AmetOy  275. 

Amiel,     Frederic     (1821-1881), 
558. 

Among  the  Corn  Bows,  427. 

Ana,  491-492;    defined,  491, 

Andreas,  24. 


Andvari,  46. 

Anecdote:  490-493,  302,  371  j 
compared  with  legend,  25: 
defined,  490,,  492;  how  to 
write  an,  493. 

Anecdotes    (Percy's),  492. 

Anecdotes  (Spence's),  492. 

Anglo-Saxon  Chronicle,  614. 

Annals:  613-616;  defined,  613- 
614;  suggestions  on  material, 
615. 

Annales  Ecclesiastici,  614. 

Annales  et  Historia  de  Sebu$ 
Legids,  614. 
'  Annals  (Goethe's),  612. 

Annals  of  the  Tarish,  612. 

Annals  of  Scotland,  614. 

Apologia  pro  Sua  Vita  (New- 
man's), 574. 

Apology  for  My  Life  (Gib- 
ber ^s),  573. 

Apparition,  The,  401^ 

Arabian  Nights,  The^  129. 

Arcadia   (Sannazaro),  274. 

Arcadia,  Countess  of  Pern- 
broke  %  275. 

Aristotle  (383-320  B.  C),  84.    • 

Arthur,  King  (5001-537?),  24- 
25. 

Artist's  Secret,  The,  114. 

Ascham,  Eoger  (1515-1568), 
361-362. 

As  You  Like  It,  275. 

Atlantic  Monthly,  118,  560. 

Aucassin  and  Nicolette,  274. 

Austen,  Jane  (1775-1817),  372, 
456,  457. 

Autobiography:  572-575;  dis- 
tinguished from  memoirs, 
572;  suggestions  for  writing, 
574-575. 


661 


662 


INDEX 


Autobiographical  Leaves,  573. 
Audubon,   John   James    (1780- 

1851),  512. 
Autobiography  of  Cellini^  573. 
Autobiography  of  De  Quincey, 

574. 
Autobiography     of     Franklin, 

574. 
Ayala,  Pedro  Lopez  de   (1332- 

1407),  626-627. 

Barlaam  and  Josaphat,  23. 

Barclay,      Alexander       (14751- 

1552),  115. 

Baron  Munchausen,  153. 

Baronius,  614. 

Barrie,  J.  M.  (b.  1860),  301. 

Beast  epics,  88. 

Belinda,  430. 

Berenice,  400. 

Bergerac,  Cyrano  de  (1619- 
1655),  151,  153,  154. 

Berkeley,  George  (1685-1753), 
151. 

Beowulf,  23. 

Berners,  Lord  (1467-1533),  626. 

Bestiaries,  85,  115. 

Bible,  3,  103,  116. 

Bibliography,  648-660. 

Biographical    Sketches,   593. 

Biography :  590-595 ;  begin- 
nings of  English  literary 
biography,  591;  great  biog- 
raphies in  English,  591-592; 
special  characteristics,  592- 
593 ;  outline  for,  594-595. 

Bjornson,  Bjornsterne  (b. 
1832),  456. 

Black  Pearl,  The,  225. 

Blue  Bird,  The,  119. 

Blue  Flower,  The,  114. 

Boccaccio,  Giovanni  (1313- 
1375),  85,  275,  299,  346. 

Boileau,  Nicolas  (1636-1711), 
131. 

Borrow,  George  (1803-1881), 
531. 


Boswell,     James      (1740-1795), 

492,  591. 
Branch  Boad,  A,  427. 
Brentano,  Clemens  (1778-1842), 

48. 
Bront6,  Charlotte    (1816-1855), 

431. 
Brooke,     Henry      (1703-1783), 

363. 
Brown,  Charles  Brockden  (1771- 

1810),  399. 
Browning,  Robert   (1812-1889), 

481. 
Brut,  The,  24. 
Buddha    (6th    century   B.    C), 

23. 
Bunyan,  John  (1628-1688),  315. 
Bumey,    Frances    (1752-1840), 

560. 
Burton,  F.  R.  (b.  1861),  225. 
Byron,  Lord   (1788-1824),  456. 

Cable,  G.  W.  (b.  1844),  301. 
Caesar,  Julius  (100-44  B.  C), 

491. 
Candide,  347. 

Canton,  William  (b.  1845),  314. 
Captain  Singleton,  256, 
Career  of  Farthest  North,  The, 

301. 
Carlyle,     Jane     Welsh      (1801- 

1866),  481. 
Carlyle,    Thomas    (1795-1881), 

492,  613. 
Castiglione,   Baldasarre    (1478- 

1529),  362. 
Castle  of  Indolence,  The,  116. 
Castle  of  Otranto,  The,  398-399. 
Catherine  II   (1729-1796),  572. 
Caxton,    William    (1422-1491), 

24. 
Celestial  BaUrotul,  The,  117. 
Cellini,  Benvenuto  (1500-1571), 

573 
Cervantes      (1547-1616 ) ,      275, 

347. 
Changelings,  47. 


INDEX 


Chanson  de  Soland,  The,  23. 
''Character,''  The,  430. 
Character-environment       story: 

426-432. 
Character-events  story:  455-400. 
Charles  V  (1500-1558),  570. 
Chatterton,       Thomas       (1752- 

1770),   513. 
Chaucer,  Geoffrey   (1340-1400), 

115,  130,  300,  346,  627. 
Chesterton,  G,  K.  (b.  1874),  67. 
Chinese  Tales,  129. 
Chirino,  Pedro,  629. 
Chivalry,  Tales  of,  131. 
Christmas,  314. 
Chronicles:     626-629;     defined, 

626. 
Chronicles    of    the    Schonberg* 

Cotta  Family,  612. 
Chroniques  de  France,  etc.,  626. 
Cibber,  CoUey  (1671-1767),  573. 
Cicero,    Marcus    Tullids     (106- 

43B.  C.),490,  491. 
Cid,  The,  23. 
Cinderella,  65.  66,  67. 
Clavijo,  Buy  Gonzales  de  (loth 

century),  558-559. 
Clemens,     Samuel     Langhome 

['Mark  Twain']  (1835-1910), 

299. 
Cloister  and  the  Hearth,  The, 

561. 
CocJcowe   and  the  Nightingale, 

The,  115. 
Collins,    William     (1721-1759), 

116. 
Complaint    of    Papingo,    The, 

115. 
Comus,  3. 
Confessions     of     an     English 

Opium-Eater,  574. 
Conquest  of  Mexico,  613. 
Coppee,    Francois     (b.    1842), 

456. 
Country  of   the  Pointed  Firs, 

The,  299. 
Court  of  Love,  The,  115. 
Courtier,  The,  362-363. 


Cowper,   William    (1731-1800), 

86,  481. 
Coverley  Papers,  de,  430. 
Craik,  Dinah  Maria    (n^  Mu- 

lock)  (1826-1887),  48. 
Cranfordy  430. 

Croesus   (fl.  560  B.  C),  83. 
Crucial  Instances,  456. 
Cwrse  of  Kehama,  The,  152. 
Curtis,  W.  E.  (b.  1850),  533. 
Cynewulf ,  24. 

Daisy  UUier,  372. 

Dana,  R.   H.,  Jr.    (1815-1882), 

533. 
Dante  (1265-1321),  85. 
Daudet,    Alphonse    (b.    1840), 

456. 
Daphnis  and  Chloe,  274. 
Darwin,  Charles  Robert   (1809- 

1882),  533. 
Davis,     Richard    Harding     (b. 

1864),  274. 
Day,  Thomas  (1748-1789),  364. 
Decline  and  Fall  of  the  Soman 

Empire,  613. 
Defoe,     Daniel      (16601-1731), 

151,  162,  154,  371,  .561. 
Deities — Egyptian,  8;  Filipino, 

12-13;  Finnish,  11;  Greek,  7; 

Hindoo,  9-10;  Norse,  12;  Ro- 
man, 7;  Russian,  11. 
De  Jocis  Ciceronis,  491. 
Delena   (scribe  to  John  11  of 

Spain),  500-501. 
De    Quincey,    Thomas    (1785- 

1859),  574. 
Descent    of    Man    (Wharton), 

456. 
Detective   story:    225-228;    re- 
lation to  tales  of  ingenuity, 

225;  suggestions  for  writing, 

227. 
Dialect,  301,  429. 
Diamond  Lens,  The,  197. 
Diana,  275. 
Diary:    533,    557-561;    defined, 

557;  distinguished  from  jour- 


664 


INDEX 


naly   557;    great   diaries   and 

their      characteristics,      560 ; 

suggestions  on  writing,  561. 
Diary     of      Mme.      D'Arhlay 

[Fanny  Bumey],  560. 
Biary  of  Evelyn,  560. 
Diary  of  Gideon  Welles,,  560. 
Diary  of  Tepys,  560. 
DickeriB,    Charles    (1812-1870), 

314,  501. 
Discourager  of  Hesitancy,  The, 

226. 
Doctor  JeJcyll  and  Mr.  Hyde, 

114. 
Dodsley,    Eobert     (1703-1764), 

86. 
Domestic  Annals  <^f  Scotland, 

614. 
Douglass,      Frederick       (1817- 

1895),  512. 
Douglas,  Gawain  (1474M522), 
.    115. 

Doyle,  A.  C.   (b.  1859),  225. 
Drake,    Alexander    Wilson    (b. 

1843),  199. 
Dream,  115. 

Dream  of  the  Hood,  The,  115: 
Dunbar,    William    (1465-1530),^ 

115. 

Easter,  314. 

Edgeworth,  Maria  (1767-1849), 

346,  364. 
Elbegast,  46. 
Elder  Edda,  23. 
Eliot,  George  (1820-1881),  456, 

457. 
El  Passo  HonrosOy  500-501. 
Emile,  363. 
Emma,  430. 
England's  Jiouming  Garment, 

275. 
Euphues,  362. 
Evelina,  430. 

Evelyn,  John  (1620-1706),  560. 
Everyman,  113. 
Eye-witness    account :    499-503 ; 


defined,  499;  methods  of 
writers  of  the,  501-502;  sng- 
gestiona  on  writing,  502-503. 

Fable,  83-89,  345;  distinguish- 
ing characteristics,  87-88; 
kinds  of  fables,  87-88;  de- 
fined, 87;  origin,  83-84;   dia- 

•  tinguished  from  allegory, 
117. 

Fables  in  Slang,  86. 

Tableaux,  299-300. 

Faerie  Queene,  113. 

Fairies:  characteristics  of,  44, 
45,  46,  47;  Northern,  46,  50; 
Irish,  51;  Scotch,  51;  Fili- 
pino, 51-53;  Russian,  53; 
Arabian,  54;  Malayan,  46; 
Miscellaneous,  54-55. 

Fairy  Me:  43-50;  character- 
istics of,  43;  distinguished 
from  nursery  sagas,  48;  di- 
rections for  writing,  49;  de- 
fined, 50. 

Fall  of  the  House  of  Usher, 
The,  899-400. 

Father,  The,  456. 

Faust,  legend  of,  25. 

Ferdinand  and  Isabella,  613. 

Fielding,  Henry  (1707-1754), 
398,  431,  531,  533,  534,  558. 

Firdousi  [Abul  Kasim  Mansur] 
(c.    940-1020),    23. 

FitzGerald,  Edward  (1809- 
1883),  482. 

Fletcher,  Phineas  (1582-1650?), 
115. 

Flower  and  the  Leaf,  The,  115. 

Fontaine,  Jean  de  la  (1631- 
1697),  85. 

Fool  of  Quality,  The,  363. 

Forster,  Jobn  (1812-1876),  592. 

FranJc,  364. 

Franklin  Benjamin  (1706- 
1790),  102,  573. 

Frederick  the  Great  (1711- 
1786),  572. 


INDEX 


065 


-  IVeeman,  Mary  E.  Wilkina  (b. 
'.  1862),    301,    372,    397,    402, 

426,  427,  429. 

Fremont,  J.  C.  (1813-1890), 
558. 

Frenoh  BevolutUm,  613. 

FroeM,  Friedrich  Wilhelm  Au- 
gust (1782-1852),  364. 

Froissart,  Jean  (1337-1410), 
626. 

Oalaiea,  .275. 

Gait,   John    (1779-1839),  612./ 

Garland,  Hamlih  (b.  1860), 
427-428. 

Gaskell,  Mrs.  [Elizabeth  Stev- 
enson]   (1810^1865),  592. 

Gate  of  the  Hundred  Sorrows, 
The,  426. 

Gaudentio  de  Lucca,  151. 

Gay,  John   (1685-1732),  86. 

General  Chronicle  of  Spain, 
628. 

Geoffrey  of  Monmouth  (12th 
century),  24,  628.. 

Gesta  Bomanorrum,  346i 

Gibbon,  Edward  (1737-1794), 
572,  613. 

GU  Bias;  301. 

Goethe,  Johann  Wolfgang  von 
(1749-1832),  612. 

Gold  Bug,  The,  226-227.. 

Golden  Legend,  The,  24. 

Golden  Targe,  The,  115.   • 

Goldsmith,  Oliver  (1728-1774), 
86,  592* 

Gondenntr,  46. 

Gothic  romances,  398-399 ;  char- 
acteristics of,  399. 

Gray,  Thomas  (1716-1771), 
481. 

Great  Stone  Face,  The,  114. 

Greater  IncUnation,  The^  456. 

Green,  J.  B.  (1837-1883),  612. 

Greene,  Bobfert  (1560M592), 
275. 

Gtettir  the  Strang,  23. 

Qrinun,  Jacob  (1785-1863),  66. 


Grimm,    Wilhelm    (1786-1859), 

66. 
Griselda,  346. 

Grote,  George  (1794-1871),  613. 
Grotius,  614. 

Gullvoer'8  Travels,  151,  154. 
Gneman  de  Alfarache,  300. 

Hailes,    Sir    David    Dalrymple. 

Lord  (1726-92),  614. 
Hakluyt,  Bichard    (1553-1616), 

629. 
Hal^vy,  L.    (b.   1834),  456. 
Hall,     Bishop     Joseph     (1574* 

1656),  430. 
Hallam,     Henry      (1777-1859), 

613. 
Handy  The,  401. 
Harris,  J.  C.  (b.  1848),  301. 
Harte,   Bret    (1839-1902),   314, 

428 
Hawes,  Stephen  (         1-15231), 

115,  •  . 

Hawthorne,    Nathaniel     (1804* 

1864),  3,  114,  116,  117,  346, 

397,  459,  593: 
Henryson,    Bobert    (15th    cen- 
tury), 8«, 
Heroes   of   nursery  eteigas:   66, 

67-68;  .x>t  legends,  22,   27. 
Heroic  romances,  131; 
Hesdiij,  Bapul,  558. 
Hildehrand,  23. 
Hill  of  Science,  The,  116. 
Historia  Britonum,  24. 
Hietory.  of   England  <  (Matjau- 
.    ley's),  613. 
History  of  Orosius,  532. 
History  of  the  English  People, 

613. 
History  of  the  States  and  Em-: 

pires  of  the  Moon,  151. 
Hitopadesa,  84-85. 
Holberg,   Ludwig    (1684-1754), 

151,  .  . 

^olinshed,.  Balph    (died   about 

1580),  628. 
JIolmflB,C,  W.  (1809-1894),  197- 


666 


INDEX 


Hook,    Theodore     (1788-1841), 

591. 
House  of  Fame,  The,  115. 
Howells,  W.  D.  (b.  1837),  370, 

371,  372,  373,  512. 
Humorous  story:  299-302;  re- 
lation to  fahleau,  299;  rela- 
tion to  picaresque  romance, 
300;  relation  to  comic  anec* 
dote,  302. 

Hunt,  Leigh   (1784-1859),  102. 
Hunter,  The,  114. 

Ibsen,  Heinrich  (1828-1906), 
119. 

Igorots,  3. 

Imaginary  voyage :  150-154 ; 
characteristics,  150 ;  sugges- 
tions on  how  to  write,  153- 
154. 

Incident:  480-482;  defined, 480; 
distinguished  from  eye-wit- 
ness account,  480. 

Incident  of  the  French  Camp, 
An.  481. 

Ingelow,  Jean  (1830-1897),  48. 

Insurgent,  The,  456. 

Irving,  Washington  (1783- 
1859),  26,  397. 

Italian  Bepuhlics,  613. 

Italian,  The,  398. 

Italian  Benaissance,  613. 

Ivan  the  Fool,  68. 

Ivanhoe,  227. 

Jack  and  the  Beanstalk,  66,  67. 
JacTc  the  Giant  Killer,  65,  66, 

67. 
Jacobus  de  Voragine  (13th  cen* 

tury),  24. 
James,  Henry    (b.   1843),  371, 

372,  373,  533. 

Jewett,  Sarah  Ome  (b.  1849), 

299. 
John  of  Damascus   (b.  at  end 

of  7th  century;  died  c.  760 1), 

23. 
Johnson,    Samuel    (1709-1784), 


116,  347,  491,  492,  533,  590. 
591. 

Johnes,  Thomas,  626. 

Jonathan  Wild,  301. 

Journal:  533,  557-561;  defined, 
557;  distinguished  from  di- 
ary, 557;  great  journals  and 
their  characteristics,  558 : 
suggestions  on  writing,    561. 

Journal  Intime,  558. 

Journal  of  the  Plague,    561. 

Journal  of  a  Spy  in  Boris,  A, 
558. 

Journal  to  Stella,  558. 

Journal  of  a  Voyage  to  lAsbon, 
A,  558. 

Journey  of  a  Day,  The,  116. 

Journey  to  the  Western  Isles, 
A,  533. 

Jumping  Frog,  The,  299. 

Jungle  Boole,  The,  86. 

Keats,    John     (1795-1821),    3, 

314. 
King  Hart,  115. 
Kingsley,  Charles   (1819-1875), 

Kipling,  Eudyard  (K  1865     ), 

48,  49,  86,  397,  426. 
KriloflP   (1768-1844),  86. 

Lady  Eleanor^s  Mantle,  346. 

Lady  of  the  AroostooJc,  The, 
372. 

Lady  or  the  Tiger,  The,  226. 

Lagerlof,  Selma  (b.  1858),  26. 

Langland,  W.  (14th  oentiiry), 
114. 

Laurin,  46. 

Layamon  (fl.  1200),  24. 

LazariUo  de  Tormes,  300. 

Legend:  22-28;  defined,  28; 
compared  with  myth,  6,  22; 
myth-legend  or  saga,  22-23; 
saint  legends,  23;  legends  of 
growth,  25;  legends  of  art, 
26-27;  legend  compared  with 
anecdote,  25;  legends  about 


INDEX 


d67 


places,    26;     legends    about 

persons,  24-25,  131. 
LiOgendarj  Bomance,  24-25. 
ie  Grand  Cyrus,  131. 
Leonard  and  Gertrude,  361. 
Letters,  481,  533. 
Lewis,    Matthew    (1775-1818), 

399. 
Library    of    Universal   Adven- 
ture, 512. 
Life  of  Beau  Nash,  692. 
Life  of  Bums,  592. 
Life  of  Byron,  592. 
Life  of  Charlotte  Bronte,  592. 
Life  of  Dickens,  592. 
Life  of  Goldsmith,  592. 
Life  of  Johnson  (Macaulay's), 

592. 
Life  of  Macaulay,  592. 
Life  Magnet,  The,  197. 
Life  of  Napoleon,  592. 
Life  of  Nelson,  592. 
Life  of  Samuel  Johnson  (Bos- 

welPs),  492,  591. 
Life  of  Savage,  590,  591. 
Life  of  Scott,  591. 
Lives  of  the  Poets,  The,  590, 

591. 
Loarca,  Miguel  de,  629. 
Lockhart,    J.    G.    (1794-1854), 

592. 
Lodge,    Thomas    (15581-1625), 

275. 
Loomis,  Charles  Battell   (1861- 

1911),  301. 
Lover,      Samuel      (1791-1868), 

301. 
Lowell,   James   Bussell    (1819- 

1891),  482. 
Lucian  (12/5t-210?),  84,  151. 
Lyly,  John   (1554M606),  362. 
Lyndesay,     Sir    David     (1490- 

1555f),  116. 

Mabie,    Hamilton     (b.    1846), 

314. 
Macaulay,   T.   B.    (1800-1859), 

590;  692,  618. 


Machiavelli'  (1469-1527),  613. 
Maclaren,  Ian   [Beverend  John 

Watson]    (b.  1850),  301. 
Macpherson,       James       (1738- 

1796),  513. 
Madam  Mow  and  Lady  Why,  48. 
Madison,    James     (1751-1836)^ 

558. 
Maeterlink,  Maurice  (b.  1862), 

119. 
Mahabharata,  The,  22. 
Malory,     Thomas     (15th     cen* 

tury),  24-25. 
Man  Who  Would  be  King,  The, 

426. 
Man  without  a  Country,   The, 

26. 
Mandeville,     Sir     John     (14th 

century),   151,  532. 
Marchen,  48,  65-69. 
Marie    de    France    (12th    cen- 
tury), 84,  130. 
MarJcheim,  400. 
Marlowe,     Christopher     (1564- 

1593),  558. 
Mary  Barton,  430. 
Masque  of  the  Red  Death,  The, 

400. 
Mateo  Falcone,  456. 
Matthews,  Brander    (b.   1852), 

396n,  401. 
Maupassant,     Guy    de     (1850- 

1893),  395,  397,  456,  458. 
Memoirs:   572-575;  distinguish- 
ed from  autobiography,  572; 

suggestions  for  writing,  574. 
Memoirs    of   a   Cavalier,    The, 

256. 
Memoirs  of  My  Life  and  Writ- 
ings (Gibbon's),  572. 
Menaphon,  275. 
Merchant  of  Venice,  The,  23. 
Meredith,   George   (1828-1909), 

129. 
Merim^e,  Prosper   (1803-1870), 

456. 
Metternich,  Prince  von    (177,3- 

1859),  572. 


668 


INDEX 


Middle  Ages,  613. 

Milton,   John    (1608-1674),   3; 

Mirabeau,  Comte  de  (1749- 
1791),   572. 

Mirror  for  Magistrates,  A,  115. 

Mogol  Vales,  i29. 

<*Moli6re"  f  pseud,  of  John 
Baptiste  Poquelin]  (1622- 
1673),  131. 

Monk,  The,  399. 

Monk's  Tale,  The,  627. 

Montaigne,  Michel  Eyquem 
(1533-1592),  558. 

Montcalm  and  Wolfe,  613. 

Montemayor,  Jorge  de  (d. 
1561),  275. 

Montepolitiano,  B  a  r  t  h  e  1  emi 
(15th  century),  491. 

Moore,  Thomas  (1779-1852), 
86,  592. 

M\)pm  the  Fairy,  48. 

Moral  story,  345-348;  distin- 
guished from  symbolic-didac- 
tic group,  345;  purpose  de- 
fined, 345-346. 

Morall  Fables  of  ^sop  the 
Phrygian,  86. 

Morga,  Dr.  Antonio  de,  629. 

Morte  d' Arthur.  24. 

Mother  Plays,  364. 

Motley,  John   (1814-1877),  613. 

Muhammad  Din,  426. 

Mulock,  Miss,  see  Craik. 

Murad  the  Unlucky,  346. 

Murders  in  the  Rue  Morgue, 
The,  225. 

Mystery  of  Marie  RogH,  The, 
225-226.       .. 

Mysteries  of  Udolpho,  The,S9S. 

Myths:  1-15;  classes '  of ,  Ij 
Igorot  myths,  3;  how  to  col- 
lect, 4-5;  liow  to  compose, 
5-6;  distinguished  from  al- 
legory, 6;  distinguished  from 
legend,  6,  22;   defined,  7. 

Necklace;  The,  456. 
Nennius,  (fl.  796 ?>,  24. 


New  Atlantis,  158. 

New  Arabian  Nicfhts,  129. 

New  England  Nun,  A,  426. 

New  Heloise,  363. 

Newman,  J.  H.  (1801-90),  573. 

Nibelungenlied,  23. 

Niel  Klim  's  Underground  Jour- 
ney, 151. 

Northanger  Abbey,  457. 

Novel,  430-431;  manners,  430; 
psychologieal  problem  novel, 
431. 

Novelas  Ejemplares,  347. 

Novislist's  Allegory,  The,  118. 

Nursery  saga:  65-69;  origin, 
65 ;  distinguishing  elements, 
66-68;  defined,  69. 

Oak  and  the  Beed,  The,  85. 

Oberon,  46. 

O'Brien,      Fitz-James       (1828- 

1862),  197,  401. 
Occasional  story,  313-315;  spirit 

of  the,  313,  314;  suggestions 

for  writing,  314. 
Ohthere,  532. 

Old  English  Baron,  The,  398. 
One  Moss  Shay,  The,  197. 
Orlando  Furioso,  23. 
Osborne,   Dorothy   (1627-1695), 

481. 
Other  Wise  ]i^n,  The,  26. 
Outcasts   of  Poker   Flat,    The, 

428. 
Overbury,  Thomas  (1581-1613), 

430. 

Pfege,      Thomas      Nelson       (b. 

1853),  301. 
Palace  6f  Bon&r,  The,  115. 
Paltock,   R.'' (1697-1767),    152- 

153. 
Panchatantra,  84-85. 
Pandosto,  275. 
Panther,  The,  115. 
Paradise  Lost,  3. 
Paradise  of  Fooles,'  115. 
Parable :     101-103 ;     contrasted 


INDBX 


669 


with     fable,     101;     defined, 

103;       characteristics,      101- 

102;   suggestions  on  writing, 

103;    distinguished   from   al- 
legory, 116-117. 
Parkman,  Francis  (1823-1893), 

613. 
Parlament  of  FouleSy  The,  315. 
Parnell,    Thomas    (1679-1718), 

115. 
Fassions,  The,  116, 
Pastime  of  Pleasure,  The,  115. 
Pastoral   romance,   274-276. 
Pedagogical  narrative:  48,  361- 

365 ;       characteristics,      361, 

363. 
Peer  Gynt,  119. 

Pellico,  Silvio  (1788-1854), 572. 
Pepys,     Samuel      (1633-1703), 

560. 
Percy   (anecdote  writers),  492. 
Peri,  47, 

Perry,  T.  S.,  512. 
Persian  Tales,  129. 
Pessimism,  347. 
Pestalozzi,      Johann      Heinrieh 

(1745-1827),  361,  365. 
Peter  Sohlemihl,  114. 
Petrarch,      Francesco       (1304- 

1374),  85. 
Petronius  Arbiter  (d.  62),  300* 
Phaedrus  (time  of  Nero),  S5. 
Phantom    'RickshaWr  The,  401. 
Philippines^  3,  46,  629. 
Phoenix,  The,  115. 
Picaresque    romance,    300-301, 

371. 
Peirs  Plowman,  114. 
Pilgrim's  Progress,    The,  113, 

115. 
Pit    and    the    Pendulum,    The, 

399. 
Planudes,  84. 

Plasencia,  Juan  de  la,  629. 
Plato  (427-347  B.  C),  3,  4,  S4, 

113-114,  491. 
Pliny  the  Elder   (23-79),  512. 
Plot,  Tales  gf  Pvue,  225-8. 


Plutarch  (46M20f),  3,  84. 
Poe,    E.    A.    (1809-1849),   225- 

226,  395,  396,  397,  399,  400. 
Poems  in  Prose,  114. 
Poems     on     the     Naming     of 

Places,  481. 
Poggio,  Gian  Francesco   (1380- 

1459),  85,  491. 
Polo,   Marco    (1254-1324),   151, 

532. 
Pope,*  Alexander    (1688-1744), 

86. 
Prescott,    W.    H.    (1796-1859), 

613. 
Pride  and  Prejudice,  457. 
Principal     Navigations,      Voy- 
ages, and  Discoveries,  629. 
Prior,  Matthew  (1664-1721),  86. 
Prisoner  of  Zenda,  The,  227. 
Probable    adventure:     tale    of, 

255-257;    defirition,  256;   the 

writing  of,  256-257. 
Procopius    (6th   century),   490. 
Proverbs:  Armenian  to  be  used 

for  fables,  89-90;  to  be  used 

for  parables,  103-104. 
Puclc  of  Poole's  Hill,  48,  49. 
Purloined  Letter,  The,  225. 
Purple  Island,  The,  115. 
Pushkin,   A.    (1802-1837),   227, 

456. 

Quifiones,  Suero  de^  500,  501. 

Radeliffe,     Anne     (1764-1822), 

399. 
Ramayana,  22. 
Easselas,  347. 
Beade>     Charles     (1814-1884), 

458,  561. 
Realism,    370,    371,    372,    373, 

457. 
Realism,  story  of  present  day: 

370-374;    elements    of,    370- 

371;  suggestions,  on  types  to 

treat,  373. 
Reeve,  Clara   (1729-1807),  398» 
Religion,  Primitive,  1-2, 


672 


INBEX 


Venetian  Glass,  The,  401. 
Vicar  of  Wakefield,  The,  430. 
Vida  del  Gran  Tamurlan,  558- 
.559. 

Tiews  Afoot,  583. 
Virgil  (70-19  B.  C),  275. 
Vunon  of  Er,  The,  4,  113-114. 
Vision  of  MHrza,  The,  115. 
Volsunga  Sagbr  The,  23. 
Voltaire,  F.   Arouet  de    (1694- 

1778),  347. 
Voyage  and  Travaille,  532. 
Voyage  in  Italy,  A,  558. 
Voyage  of  Peter  WUkine,  The, 

152. 
Voyage    of    the    Beagle,    The, 

533. 
Voyages  Imaginaires,  150,  256. 

Walpole,    Horace    (1717-1797), 

398,  491. 
Walpoliana,  491. 
Waltharilied,  23. 
Walton,      Isaac       ( 1593-1683 ) , 

362-363. 
Wandering  Jew,  legend  of  the, 

26. 
Waverley  Novels,  456. 
Weird  tale:  49,  398-402;  origin, 

398;    material    and    met]£od, 

402;    form,  402;   suggestions 

for  writing,  401-402. 


Welles,  €Rdeoii  (1802-1878), 
560. 

Wharton,  Edith  (b.  1862), 
456. 

What  ia  It?  a  Mystery,  401. 

What  Men  Live  By,  26,  102. 

Wiggin,  Kate  Douglas  (b. 
1857),  301,  314. 

Wilde,  Oscar  (1856-1900),  114. 

William  Wila{nk,  400. 

Wind  in  the  Rose  Bush,  The, 
401,  402. 

Without  Benefit  of  Clergy,  426. 

Wilkins,  M.   £!.;   see  Freeman. 

Wonder  Book,  3. 

Wonder,  tales  of  mere:  6,  25, 
128,  129-132,  346,  398;  de- 
lined,  129;  suggest  ions  for 
writing,  129-131 ;  contrasted 
with  folk  tales,  129. 

Wordsworth,  William  (1770- 
1850),  481. 

Wulfstan,  532. 
i 

Xenophon  (435  B.  C),  491. 

Yeats,     William     Butler      (b. 

1865),  46,  801. 
Youth's  Companion,  25d. 

Ysopet,  84. 

Zeus,  2. 


^  :?*  b  I 


