UNDER  THE  YOKE 


NEW  6s  NOVELS 

KING-EREANT.   By  Flora  Annie  Steel,  Author 

of  "  On  the  Face  of  the  Waters,"  &c. 
THE  "MIND  THE  PAINT  GIRL."    By  Louis 

Tracy.    Adapted  from  Sir  Arthur  Pinero's  Play 

of  that  name. 
MOLYNEUX    OF    MAYFAIR.      By     Duncan 

Schwann,  Author  of  "  The  Book  of  a  Bachelor." 

Illlustrated  by  Olive  Snell. 
THE    MARRIAGE    OP    KETTLE.     By  C.  J. 

CuTCLiFFE  Htne.    Illustrated. 
THE    CAHUSAC    MYSTERY.    By  K.  and  H. 

Hesketh  Prichard. 
BETWEEN    TWO    THIEVES.      By   Kichard 

Dehan,  Author  of  "  The  Dop  Doctor." 
ADNAM'S    ORCHARD.       By    Sarah    Grand, 

Author  of  "  The  Heavenly  Twins,"  &c. 
MINNA.    By  Karl  Gjellerup,  Author  of  "  Kama- 

mita." 
THE  STORY  OF  STEPHEN  COMPTON.    By 

J.  E.  Patterson,  Author  of  "  Tillers  of  the  Soil." 
THE  DECLENSION  OP  HENRY  D'ALBIAC. 

By  V.  GoLDiE,  Author  of  "Marjorie  Stevens,"  &c. 
GUTTER-BABIES.    By  Dorothea  Slade.    Illus- 
trated by  Lady  Stanley. 
A  RUNAWAY  RING.    By  Mrs.  Henry  Dudeney, 

Author  of  "  The  Orchard  Thief,"  &c. 
A  DESERT  ROSE.     By  Mrs.  Daskein. 
BACK  HOME.     By  Irvin  S.  Cobb. 

LESS  THAN  THE    DUST.    By   Mary    Agnes 

Hamilton. 
YONDER.     By  E.  H.  Young,  Author  of  "  A  Oom  of 

Wheat,"  &c. 

LONDON  :  WILLIAM  HEINEMANN 
21  Bedford  Street,  W.C. 


UNDER  THE  YOKE  ^ 

A  ROMANCE  OF  BUL-^ 
GARIAN  LIBERTY  BY 
lYAN  YAZOFF  WITH 

anIntrodijction  by 
edmund  gosse,  c.b. 


A  NEW  AND  REVISED  EDITION 


LONDON  MCMXII 

WILLIAM     HEINEMANN 


PRESERVATION 
COPY  ADDED 
ORIGINAL  TO  BE 
RETAINED 


APR  22 1994 


Firatpublished  {HeinemanrCs  International  Library)  December  1893 
.     »  •  V    ..  2N^  Edition  November  191S 


rG,  I03-7 


'Pci^ 


INTRODUCTION 


If  there  is  a  certain  gratification  in  presenting  to  titeErtgiiBh. 
public  the  first  specimen  of  the  literature  of  a  new  people, 
that  gratification  is  lifted  above  triviality,  and  grounded 
upon  a  serious  critical  basis,  when  the  book  so  presented  is 
in  itself  a  masterpiece.  I  do  not  think  that  it  will  be 
questioned  that  Under  the  Yoke  is  a  romance  of  modern 
history  of  a  very  high  class  indeed.  That  it  should  be  the 
earliest  representation  of  Bulgarian  belles-lettres  translated 
into  a  Western  tongue  may  be  curious  and  interesting,  but 
the  book  rests  its  claim  upon  English  readers  on  no  such 
accidental  quality.  Tji  any  language,  however  hackneyed, 
the  extreme  beauty  of  this  heroic  novel,  so  simple  and  yet  so 
artfully  constructed,  so  full  of  ideal  charm,  permeated  with 
so  pure  and  fiery  a  passion,  so  human  and  tender,  so  modem 
and  yet  so  direct  and  primitive,  must  have  been  assured 
among  all  imaginative  readers. 

The  story  is  one  of  false  dawn  before  the  sunrise.  The 
action  proceeds,  as  may  gradually  be  discovered,  in  the 
years  1875  and  1876,  and  the  scene  is  laid  in  that  comer  of 
Bulgaria  which  was  not  until  1886  completely  freed  from 
Turkish  rule — the  north-west  part  of  Thrace — overshadowed 
by  the  Balkan  on  the  north,  and  then  forming  part  of 
the  anomalous  suzerainty  of  Eastern  Roumelia.  Pod  I  goto 
is  the  title  of  the  book,  and  I  am  instructed  that  in  Bulgarian 
the  three  words  Pod  Igo-to  mean,  literally  translated,  Under 
the  Yoke.  The  whole  story  is  the  chronicle  of  one  of  those 
abortive  attempts  which  were  made  throughout  Bulgaria 
and  Roumelia  forty  years  ago,  under  the  hope  of  help  from 
Russia,  to  throw  off  the  intolerable  Turkish  yoke  of 
tyranny.  The  tale  ends  tragically,  with  the  failure  of  the 
particular  and  partial  insurrection  described,  and  the 
martyrdom  of  the  leading  patriots  who  took  a  part  in 
it ;  but  the  reader  is  preserved  from  finding  this  failure 

717088 


vi  INTRODUCTION 

depressing  by  the  consciousness  that  relief  was  at  hand,  and 
that  an  end  was  soon  afterwards  to  be  put  to  all  the 
horrors  of  bondage,  to  the  incessant  zaptie  at  the  door,  to  the 
hateful  Turkish  rapine,  to  the  misery  of  Christian  servitude 
under  a  horde  of  Oriental  officials. 

For  particulars  as  to  the  career  of  the  author  of  Under  the 
Yoke  I  am  indebted  to  the  kindness  of  Professor  J.  E. 
Gueshoff  of  Sofia,  whose  enthusiasm  for  English  institutions 
is  well  known  in  this  country.  Ivan  Vazoff,  by  far  the  most 
distinguished  writer  of  modern  Bulgaria,  was  bom  in 
August  1850,  at  Sopot,  a  large  South  Bulgarian  village  in 
what  was  later  known  as  Eastern  Roumelia,  at  the  foot  of 
the  Balkan,  and  about  forty  miles  to  the  north  of  Philip- 
popolis.  The  locality  indicated  is  identical  with  the  centre 
of  the  district  obviously  described  in  Under  the  Yoke,  and  I 
should  not  be  surprised  to  learn  that  Bela  Cherkva,  the 
little  toAvn  so  lovingly  and  so  picturesquely  pictured  by  M. 
Vazoff  as  the  centre  of  his  novel,  was  Sopot  under  a  disguise. 

The  other  scenes  of  action — Klissoura,  Karlovo,  Kop- 
rivshtitsa,  and  the  rest — ^appear  in  the  course  of  this 
romance  under  their  real  names,  and  are  the  towns  of  a 
lovely  pastoral  district.  The  story  passes  in  the  heart  of 
the  famous  Valley  of  Roses,  where  the  attar  is  made  ;  and 
over  those  billowy  meadows,  heavy  with  the  redundant 
rose,  over  the  hurrying  water-courses,  the  groves  of  walnut 
and  pear  trees,  the  white  cupolas  ringed  about  with  poplars, 
the  little  sparkling  cities — over  all  this  foreground  of  rich 
fertility  there  rises  the  huge  bulwark  of  the  inaccessible 
Balkan,  snow-clad  all  though  the  tropic  summer,  and  feeding 
the  flowery  plain  with  the  wealth  of  its  cascades  and 
torrents. 

M.  Ivan  Vazoff  was  educated  at  the  school  of  his  native 
village.  Prom  Sopot  his  father,  a  small  trader,  sent  him  to 
Kalofer  and  then  to  Philippopolis.  At  that  time,  so  Pro- 
fessor Gueshoff  assures  me,  Bulgarian  literature  consisted 
of  nothing  but  a  few  school-books  and  pohtical  pamphlets, 


INTRODUCTION  vii 

possessed  of  no  literary  pretensions.  Like  all  other  Bul- 
garians who  have  made  their  mark  in  new  Bulgaria,  M. 
Vazoff  was  driven  to  seek  his  facts  and  his  ideas  from  foreign 
sources.  None  but  works  written  in  alien  languages  were 
worthy  to  be  read.  He  set  himself  to  study  Russian  and 
then  French,  taking  advantage  of  the  school  libraries  exist- 
ing in  the  chief  centres  of  population.  When  the  budding 
spirit  of  Bulgaria  put  forth  that  first  tender  leaf.  The  Periodic 
Review,  published  at  Braila,  over  the  frontiers  of  friendly 
Roumania,  he  was  one  of  the  first  to  contribute  poems  to  it. 

From  1870  to  1872  M.  Vazoff  resided,  like  so  many  edu- 
cated Bulgarians  of  that  time,  in  Roumania.  But  in  the  latter 
year  he  went  back  to  Sopot,  hesitating  between  the  only 
two  employments  open  to  such  men  as  he,  teaching  and 
trade.  He  chose  the  latter,  and  entered  his  father's  business* 
He  was  not  very  successful,  attending  to  it,  we  may  believe, 
not  much  more  closely  than  his  hero,  Ognianoff,  does  to 
school- work.  No  doubt,  not  a  little  of  M.  Vazoff 's  personal 
history  is  here  mingled  with  his  fiction,  for  we  find  that  he 
grew  more  and  more  an  object  of  suspicion  to  the  Turkish 
authorities,  until  in  1876,  the  year  of  smouldering  and 
futile  insurrection,  he  had  to  fly  north  across  the  Balkan 
for  his  life.  He  reached  Roumania  in  safety,  and  at 
Bucharest  joined  the  Bulgarian  Revolutionary  Committee. 
The  three  stormy  years  that  followed  saw  the  final  develop- 
ment of  his  genius,  and  the  publication  of  three  volumes  of 
his  patriotic  lyrical  poetry.  The  Banner  and  the  Ouzla,  The 
Sorrows  of  Bulgaria,  The  Deliverance,  in  which  the  pro- 
gressive story  of  Bulgarian  emancipation  may  be  read  in 
admirable  verse. 

He  returned  in  1878  to  find  Sopot  destroyed,  and  his 
father  murdered  by  the  Bashi-bozouks.  The  impression 
made  upon  his  imagination  by  the  horrors  of  his  bleeding 
country  may  be  clearly  marked  in  the  later  chapters  of 
Under  the  Yoke.  M.  Vazoff  accepted  from  the  Russians, 
who^^were  then    in    occupation  of   Bulgaria,   a  judicial 


viii"  INTRODUCTION 

appointment.  In  1879  he  was  elected  a  member  of  the  Per- 
manent Committee  of  the  Provincial  Assembly  in  the  new 
and  anomalous  country  of  Eastern  Roumelia.  He  settled 
in  the  new  capital,  Philippopolis,  and  here  he  published  his 
earliest  prose  works,  his  stories  of  Not  Long  Ago,  Mitrofan, 
Hadji  Akhil,  and  The  Outcast,  his  comedy  of  Mikhalaki,  and 
issued,  besides,  two  new  collections  of  poetry,  entitled  Fields 
and  Woods  and  Italy  respectively.  The  last-mentioned 
was  published  in  1884,  after  the  author  had  been  travelling 
in  the  country  it  celebrated. 

During  the  Serbo- Bulgarian  war  of  1885,  M.  Vazoif 
visited  the  battle-fields  of  Slivnitza,  Tsaribrod,  and  Pirot, 
sang  the  valour  of  his  countrymen  in  dithyrambic  strains, 
and  inveighed — in  a  volume  entitled  Slivnitza — against  the 
fratricidal  madness  of  King  Milan.  Dissatisfied  with  the 
turn  taken  by  aiiairs  in  the  peninsula  after  the  abdication 
of  Prince  Alexander  of  Battenberg,  M.  Vazoff  in  1886  left 
for  Russia.  It  was  while  residing  in  Odessa  that  he  wrote 
the  romance  of  Pod  Igoto  ("  Under  the  Yoke  "),  which  is 
generally  admitted  to  be  his  masterpiece.  In  1889  he 
returned  to  Bulgaria,  and  settled  in  Sofia,  where  he  had 
inherited  some  property  from  an  uncle.  Pod  Igoto  first 
appeared,  in  serial  form,  in  the  excellent  Sbornik  (or 
Miscellany)  published  by  the  Bulgarian  Ministry  of  Public 
Instruction.  The  same  review  issued  in  1892  a  book  by 
M.  Vazoff  entitled  The  Great  Desert  of  Rilo,  and  in  1893 
another,  called  In  the  Heart  of  the  Rhodope.  In  1891-92 
our  author  undertook  the  editorial  management  of  the 
monthly  periodical  Dennitsa  ("  The  Morning  Star  ").  He 
is  now,  without  a  rival,  the  leading  writer  of  Bulgaria, 
and  actively  engaged  in  the  production  of  prose  and 
verse. 

The  poems  of  Vazoff  enjoy  a  great  popularity  in  his  own 
country,  and  selections  from  them  have  been  translated 
into  Russian,  Czech,  Slovenian,  and  Servian.  The  Bohe- 
mians may  read  him  in  a  version  by  Voracek,  published  at 


INTRODUCTION  '  ix 

Prague  in  1891,  which  is  recommended  to  me  as  particu- 
larly admirable.  But  alas  !  Bohemia  is  itself  remote,  and  a 
poet  to  whom  a  translation  into  Czech  appears  to  be  an 
introduction  to  the  Western  world  seems  to  us  inaccessible 
indeed.  Professor  Gueshoff  considers  that  VazofE  will 
hold  in  the  history  of  Bulgarian  literature  a  place  analogous 
to  that  of  Chaucer  in  our  otvti.  Having  no  Bulgarian 
models  to  follow,  and  no  native  traditions  of  poetical 
style,  Vazoff  has  had  to  invent  the  very  forms  of  versifica- 
tion that  he  uses.  His  success  has  already  led  to  the  crea- 
tion of  a  school  of  young  Bulgarian  poets,  but,  though 
many  have  imitated  Vazoff  with  talent,  not  one  approaches 
him  in  the  melody  of  his  metrical  effects  or  in  his  magical 
command  of  the  resources  of  the  Bulgarian  language. 

Written  during  an  epoch  of  intense  national  excitement, 
in  a  language  quite  unused  before,  Vazoff's  poems  are 
described  to  me  as  reflecting  with  extraordinary  directness 
and  simple  passion  the  woes  and  burdens,  the  hopes  and 
the  pleasures,  of  a  pastoral  people,  long  held  in  servitude 
but  at  length  released.  Most  of  the  figures  celebrated  in 
his  ballads  and  his  odes  are  the  heroes  of  contemporary 
patriotism — ^men,  unknown  till  yesterday,  who  rose  into 
momentary  fame  by  fighting  and  dying  for  their  country. 
They  live  crystallised  in  this  beautiful  verse,  already 
classical,  already  the  food  and  inspiration  of  Bulgarian 
youth — verse  written  by  a  son  of  the  new  country,  one 
who  suffered  and  struggled  with  her  through  her  worst 
years  of  hope  deferred.  How  tantalising  it  is  that  we 
cannot  read  such  poetry,  with  the  dew  of  the  morning  of  a 
nation  upon  it !  It  is  almost  enough  to  tempt  the  busiest 
of  us  to  turn  aside  to  the  study  of  Bulgarian. 

We  may  regret  our  wider  loss  the  less,  since  it  is  now 
practicable  to  read  in  English  what  all  Bulgarians  seem  to 
admit  is  the  leading  prose  product  of  their  nation.  In  Pod 
I  goto  ("  Under  the  Yoke  ")  Vazoff  is  understood  to  have 
concentrated  in  riper  form  than  elsewhere  the  peculiar  gifts 


X  INTRODUCTION 

of  his  mind  and  style.  The  first  quality  which  strikes  the 
critic  in  reading  this  very  remarkable  book  is  its  freshness. 
It  is  not  difficult  to  realise  that,  in  its  original  form,  this 
must  be  the  earliest  work  of  genius  written  in  an  unexhausted 
language.  Nor,  if  Vazoff  should  live  eighty  years,  and 
should  write  with  unabated  zeal  and  volume,  is  it  very  likely 
that  he  will  ever  recapture  this  first  fine  careless  rapture. 
Under  the  Yoke  is  a  historical  romance,  not  constructed  by 
an  antiquary  or  imagined  by  a  poet  out  of  vague  and  in- 
sufficient materials  accidentally  saved  from  a  distant  past, 
but  recorded  by  one  who  lived  and  fought  and  suffered 
through  the  scenes  that  he  sets  himself  to  chronicle.  It  is 
like  seeing  Old  Mortality  written  by  Morton,  or  finding  the 
autobiography  of  Ivanhoe.  It  is  history  seen  through  a 
powerful  telescope,  with  mediaeval  figures  crossing  and 
recrossing  the  seventies  of  our  own  discoloured  nineteenth 
century. 

When  the  passion  which  animates  it  is  taken  into  con- 
sideration, the  moderate  and  artistic  tone  of  Under  the  Yoke 
is  worthy  of  great  praise.  In  an  episode  out  of  the  epic  of  an 
intoxicated  nation,  great  extravagance,  great  violence  might 
have  been  expected  and  excused.  But  this  tale  of  forlorn 
Bulgarian  patriotism  is  constructed  with  delicate  considera- 
tion, and  passes  nowhere  into  bombast.  The  author  writes 
out  of  his  heart  things  which  he  has  seen  and  felt,  but  the 
moment  of  frenzy  has  gone  by,  and  his  pulse  as  an  observer 
has  recovered  its  precision.  The  passion  is  there  still,  the 
intense  conviction  of  intolerable  wrongs,  scarcely  to  be 
wiped  out  with  blood.    He  reverts  to  the  immediate  past — 

Seeing  how  with  covered  face  and  plumeless  wings. 

With  unreverted  head 

Veiled,  as  who  mourns  his  dead, 
Lay  Freedom,  couched  between  the  thrones  of  kings, 

A  wearied  lion  without  lair, 
And  bleeding  from  base  wounds,  and  vexed  with  alien  air — 


INTRODUCTION  xi 

but  already  the  image  is  settled,  and  has  taken  the  monu- 
mental and  marmoreal  aspect  of  past  history. 

The  strenuous  political  fervour  of  this  romance  is  relieved 
by  a  multitude  of  delicate,  touching,  and  humorous  episodes. 
The  scene  in  the  theatre,  where,  in  the  presence  of  the  in- 
dulgent and  indolent  Turkish  Bey,  songs  of  Bulgarian  insur- 
rection are  boldly  introduced  into  a  sentimental  farce,  a 
spurious  running  translation  being  supplied  to  the  unsus- 
pecting governor  ;  the  thrilling  slaughter  of  the  bandits  at 
the  Mill ;  the  construction  of  the  hollow  cherry-tree  cannon^ 
which  bursts  so  ignominiously  at  the  moment  of  trial ;  the 
beautiful  and  heroic  love-scenes  between  Ognianoff  and 
Rada,  cunningly  devised  and  prepared  as  the  very  food  of 
patriotism  for  youthful  native  readers  ;  the  copious  and 
recurrent,  but  never  needless  or  wire-drawn,  descriptions  of 
the  scenery  of  the  Balkan  valleys  ;  the  vignettes  of  life  in 
Bulgarian  farmsteads,  and  cafes,  and  monasteries,  and 
water-mills — all  these  are  but  the  embroidery  of  a  noble 
piece  of  imaginative  texture,  unquestionably  one  of  the 
finest  romances  that  Eastern  Europe  has  sent  into  the 
West. 

Edmund  Gosse 


TRANSLATOR'S  NOTE 

Apart  from  the  difficulty  of  rendering  into  English  a  work 
written  in  Bulgarian,  a  language  which  may  be  said  to  be  as 
yet  uncultivated  and  in  a  state  of  transition,  which  possesses 
no  dictionary  worthy  of  the  name,  and  which,  at  all  events  in 
peasant  mouths  and  in  certain  districts,  is  a  strange  jumble, 
where  Turkish  words,  and  sometimes  even  Greek,  predominate 
— it  is  no  easy  task  to  bring  before  the  English  reader  a  more 
or  less  accurate  picture  of  village  life  in  the  Balkans,  where 
so  much  must  appear  strange  and  inexplicable.  It  has  been 
thought  best  to  take  the  fewest  liberties  possible  with  the  text, 
so  far  as  this  could  be  done  without  giving  the  translation  too 
un-English  an  appearance. 

Such  Turkish  words  as  it  has  been  thought  necessary  to 
retain  will  be  found  explained  in  footnotes  where  they  occur. 
But  it  may  be  not  amiss  to  give  a  somewhat  fuller  explanation 
of  the  term  "  chorbaji  "  and  the  class  designated  by  that  name. 

The  Turkish  word  chorbaji  literally  means  a  soup-man, 
one  who  makes,  distributes,  or  otherwise  deals  with  soup.  In 
the  hierarchy  of  the  Janissaries  the  chorbaji  was  an  officer, 
probably  charged  with  the  superintendence  of  the  commissariat, 
whose  rank  equalled  that  of  a  captain.  The  term  was  also 
applied  to  the  principal  resident  in  Christian  villages,  who 
extended  his  hospitality  to  such  chance  strangers  as  might 
arrive,  there  being  no  inn  accommodation  then  available. 
So  it  came  to  mean  any  comparatively  wealthy  and  respectable 
townsman,  any  one  who  belonged  to  "  Society.''  And  as, 
not  unnaturally,  these  were  usually  men  of  thoroughly  con- 
servative notions,  opposed  to  any  upheaval  which  might  en- 
danger their  possessions  and  security,  the  chorbajis  became 
as  a  class  most  unpopular  among  the  ardent  and  enthusiastic 
youth  who  were  eager  for  their  country's  emancipation. 
But  M.  Vazoff  defends  them  from  the  sweeping  imputation, 
often  made  against  them,  that  they  did  nothing  but  impede  and 
even  betray  the  national  movement,  and  at  least  two  of  his 
insurgents  belong  to  this  much-abused  class. 


xiii 


CONTENTS 


PAKT  I. 


CHAP. 

I.  A  VISITOR 

II.  THE   STORM 

ni.  THE   MONASTERY 

IV.  BACK   AT   MARKO'S 

V.  THE  REST   OE  THE  NIGHT 

VI.  THE  LETTER 

VII.  HEROISM 

VIII.  AT  CHORBAJI  YORDAN'S 

IX.  EXPLANATIONS 

X.  THE   NUNNERY 

XI.  rada's  trials 

XII.   BOICHO   OGNIANOFF 

XIII.  THE  ROAD   TO  SILISTRIA 

XIV.  AN  UNFORESEEN  MEETING 
XV.    A  VOICE   FROM  THE   GRAVE 

XVI.    THE   THEATRICALS 
XVII.    TWO   STROKES   OF  LUCK 
XVIII.   A  DIFFICULT  MISSION 
XIX.    A  DISAGREEABLE   VISIT 
XX.    THE   FUGITIVE 
XXI.   AT  VERIGOVO 

XXII.   AN  AWKWARD  PREDICAMENT 
XXIII.   THE   SEWING- PARTY  AT  ALTINOVO 
XXIV.   GOD  IS  TOO  HIGH  AND   THE  TSAR  TOO  PAE 
XXV.   RETRIBUTION 
XXVI.   THE   STORM 
XXVII.   IN  THE  HUT 

PART  II. 

I.   TOGETHER  AGAIN 
II.   EXTREMES  MEET 

III.  FATHER-IN-LAW  AND  SON-IN-LAW 

IV.  A  SPY  IN   1876 

V.    THE   CHERRY-TREE 
VI.   MARKO'S  PRAYER 
VII.   A  NATION  INTOXICATED 
VIII.   TROUBLE  UPON  TROUBLE 
IX.    THE  REBELLION 

X.    THE   BATTERY   OF  ZLI  DOL 
XI.   DISCOURAGEMENT  IN  THE  FORT 
XII.   A  BAPTISM 

XIII.  THE  VALLEY  OF  THE  STREMA  IS  FLAMES 

XIV.  A  FRESH  ATTEMPT 
XV.   AVRAM 

XVI.   NIGHT 
XVII.   MORNING 
XVIII.    THE  FIGHT 
XIX.    RADA 
XX,   THE  TWO  STREAMS 

TV 


PAGE 
1 

7 

16 

20 

26 

31 

34 

39 

46 

51 

67 

64 

69 

76 

84 

90 

101 

107 

110 

114 

120 

125 

128 

137 

144 

164 

158 


163 
170 
175 
179 
187 
196 
201 
204 
209 
212 
215 
218 
221 
227 
230 
233 
235 
237 
243 
247 


xvi  CONTENTS 

PART  III. 

CHAP.  PAGE 

I.  ▲  EETROSPECT  251 

II.  A  shepherd's  hospitality  253 

III.   TO  THE  NORTH  256 

rV.   THE  FLAG  262 

V.    THE  SLAIN  263 

VI.  THE  messenger  266 

VII.  marika's  failure  269 

VIII.    THE   MEADOW  273 

IX.  AN  ally  277 

X.   love   and   HEROISM  281 

XI.    THE   BASHI-BOZOUK  284 

XII.    THE   HISTORY   OF   AN   TTNREVOLTED    CITY  286 

XIII.  THE  HISTORY  CONTINUED  290 

XIV.  A  SERIOUS  CONVERSATION  292 
XV.    THE   MEETING                                                                         '  295 

XVI.   THE  PARTING  297 

XVII.  DESTRUCTION  300 


PART  I 

CHAPTER  I :    A  VISITOR 

On  a  delightful  evening  in  May,  Chorbaji  Marko,  bare- 
headed and  in  dressing  gown  and  shppers,  was  sitting  at 
supper  with  his  family  in  the  courtyard.  A^  usual,,  the  table 
was  laid  at  the  foot  of  the  vines  ;  on  one  side  flowed  the? 
clear,  cold  brooklet,  which  sang  ni^ht  and  day  like  a 
swallow  as  it  rippled  past ;  on  the  other,  the;  high,  hedge*  o J: 
clustering  ivy  made  an  evergreen  cover  for  the  wall  all  the 
year  round.  A  lantern  shone  down  from  an  overhanging 
branch  of  lilac,  which  spread  its  odorous  blossoms  over  the 
heads  of  the  assembled  family.  The  family  was  a  large  one. 
Round  Marko,  his  old  mother  and  his  buxom  wife,  were 
crowded  a  complete  circle  of  children,  great  and  small,  all 
armed  with  knives  and  forks,  and  ready  for  a  terrible  on- 
slaught on  their  victuals  ;  they  fully  personified  the  Turkish , 
saying  :  *'  Saman  doushmanlari  "  (foes  to  their  fodder),  i 
From  time  to  time  their  father  cast  an  approving  glance  at 
the  execution  done  by  the  teeth  of  these  indefatigable 
workers,  and  encouraged  them  with  a  smile  and  a  merry 
"  Set  to,  young  'uns.  Fill  up  the  jug  again,  Pena."  And 
the  maid  would  go  to  the  well,  where  the  great  wine  jar 
was  cooling,  and  fill  the  earthenware  jug  ;  while  Marko, 
handing  it  to  the  children,  would  say,  "  Drink,  you  young 
rascals  !  "  and  so  the  jar  would  go  round  the  table.  Eyes 
brightened,  cheeks  sparkled,  and  lips  parted  in  a  smile  of 
satisfaction,  and  Marko  would  turn  to  his  wife,  and  seeing  a 
look  of  disapproval  on  her  face,  would  say,  "  Let  them 
drink  in  my  presence.  I  won't  stint  them  of  wine — for  I 
don't  want  them  to  become  drunkards  when  they  grow  up." 

Marko  was  a  thoroughly  practical  man.  His  education 
had  been  but  slight — he  was  of  the  old  regime — but  thanks 
to  his  natural  common  sense,  he  understood  human  nature 
well,  and  knew  that  people  always  hanker  most  after  what 
is  forbidden.  For  the  same  reason  he  always  entrusted  his 
children  with  the  key  of  his  money-chest,  so  as  to  prevent 
any  inchnation  to  theft.  "  Gocho,"  he  would  say,  "  go  and 
open  the  cypress-wood  chest  and  bring  me  the  money-bag  "; 
or  else,  as  he  went  out,  "  My  boy,  just  count  out  twenty 
liras  in  gold,  and  give  them  to  me  when  I  come  in." 

In  spite  of  the  then  prevailing  custom,  which  required 


2  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

that  during  meals  children  should  remain  standing  till  their 
elders  had  finished,  as  a  mark  of  respect,  Marko's  children 
were  always  allowed  to  be  seated  ;  nor  was  this  rule  changed 
when  there  were  guests  present.  "  I  want  them  to  get  used 
to  company,"  he  would  say,  "  not  to  run  wild,  and  sink  into 
their  shoes  when  they  see  a  stranger,  like  Anka  Raspopche," 
who  had  beccme,  proverbial  for  bashfuhaess  of  the  most 
abject  desciiptioii  whenever  she  met  a  man  with  cloth 
trousers,  on. 

As  "he  w^a;s  engaged  with  his  business  all  day,  Marko  only 
saw  his  whole  family  once  a  day — at  supper — and  it  was  then 
that  he  carried  out  his  system  of  education  in  his  own 
peculiar  manner. 

Thus  :  "  Dimitr,  don't  sit  down  before  your  grandmother 
takes  her  place — you're  becoming  a  regular  Freemason  !  * 
Ilia,  don't  hold  your  knife  like  a  butcher  ;  cut  your  meat, 
don't  hack  it.  Gocho,  what  are  you  about  ?  Take  off  your 
fez  when  you  sit  down  to  supper.  Why,  your  hair  is  as 
long  as  a  Toutrakan  peasant's  ;  go  and  have  it  cut  presently, 
cossack-style.  Vassili,  turn  in  those  elbows  of  yours — 
you're  sprawling  all  over  the  table.  You  can  do  that  in  the 
fields,  but  not  in  here.  Abraham,  what  do  you  mean  by 
getting  up  from  your  supper  without  crossing  yourself  ? 
None  of  these  Protestant  *  ways  here,  sir  !  " 

But  this  was  only  when  Marko  was  in  a  good  temper  ;  if 
he  was  put  out,  no  one  dared  to  open  his  mouth. 

Being  extremely  pious  and  particular,  Marko  took  the 
greatest  pains  to  inculcate  a  proper  rehgious  spirit  in  his 
children.  Every  evening  the  older  members  of  the  family 
had  to  be  present  while  prayers  were  read.  Every  Sunday 
or  hohday,  all  were  obliged  to  go  to  church — this  was  a 
rule  which  admitted  of  no  exception  ;  any  infringement  led 
to  a  storm  in  the  household.  One  Christmas  Eve,  Kiril 
had  been  told  to  go  to  confession,  as  he  was  to  communicate 
the  following  morning.  Kiril  came  back  from  church 
suspiciously  early — in  fact,  he  had  not  been  near  the  Pope, 
"  Did  you  confess  ?  "  his  father  asked,  incredulously. 
"  Yes."  "  To  whom  ?  "  "  To— to  Father  Enio,"  stam- 
mered Kiril.  That  settled  it,  for  Father  Enio  was  a  young 
deacon  who  could  not  give  absolution.     Marko  at  once 

*  The  teiigas  "  Freemason  "  and  "  Ptotestant  "  are  almost  synonymoua 
in  Bulgaria,  and  are  applied  to  persons  who  do  not  comply  with  the 
orthodox  fasts,  &c. 


A  VISITOR  8 

detected  the  lie,  seized  his  son  angrily  by  the  ear,  and  so 
dragged  him  to  the  church,  where  he  handed  him  over  to 
old  Father  Stavri,  with  the  words,  "  Father,  just  confess  this 
donkey  "  ;  and,  sitting  down,  he  waited  there  himseK,  till 
the  operation  was  over.  He  was  still  more  severe  in  cases 
of  playing  truant  from  school. 

For  though  he  had  but  little  education  himself,  he  loved 
learning  and  the  learned.  He  was  one  of  those  numerous 
patriots  whose  eager  zeal  for  the  new  educational  movement 
has  in  so  short  a  time  filled  Bulgaria  with  schools.  He  had 
but  a  dim  notion  of  the  practical  benefit  likely  to  accrue  to 
a  nation  then  consisting  almost  exclusively  of  farm  labourers, 
artisans,  and  merchants.  Marko  saw  with  regret  that  there 
was  neither  work  nor  bread  for  the  learned  when  they  left 
school.  But  he  felt,  he  understood  in  his  heart  that  some 
secret  force  lay  hidden  in  learning  which  would  change  the 
world.  He  believed  in  learning  as  he  did  in  God — ^%vithout 
inquiry  :  hence  he  sought  to  advance  it  as  far  as  lay  in  his 
power.  His  only  ambition  was  to  be  elected  a  member  of 
the  School  Committee,  as  indeed  he  invariably  was,  being 
universally  respected  and  esteemed.  For  this  modest  social 
duty  Marko  spared  neither  time  nor  trouble  ;  but  he 
sedulously  avoided  all  other  dealings  with  the  authorities, 
and  especially  with  the  Konak.* 

When  the  table  was  cleared  Marko  rose.  He  was  about 
fifty  years  of  age,  very  tall,  with  a  slight  stoop,  but  still  hale. 
His  ruddy  face,  tanned  by  sun  and  wind  in  his  frequent 
joumeyings  to  and  from  shearings  and  fairs,  had  a  serious 
and  somewhat  stem  expression  even  when  he  smiled.  The 
thick  eyebrows,  which  almost  met,  added  to  the  severity 
of  his  mien.  But  a  certain  air  of  geniality,  straightforward- 
ness, and  sincerity  toned  this  down,  and  made  the  whole 
sympathetic  and  worthy  of  respect. 

Marko  sat  down  on  the  wooden  bench  among  the  ivy, 
and  puffed  at  his  chibouk.  The  children  scattered  round 
in  free  play,  and  the  maid  brought  in  the  coffee. 

That  evening  Marko  was  in  a  good  temper.  He  watched 
with  pleased  interest  the  gambols  of  his  well-fed,  rosy 
children  as  they  filled  the  air  with  their  ringing  laughter. 
Every  moment  the  scene  changed,  while  the  pattering  of 
their  feet  and  the  chorus  of  chattering,   laughter,   and 

*  The  Konak  is  the  official  residence  of  the  chief  executive  officer, 
and  hence  comes  to  be  used  for  "  the  Turkish  authorities." 


4  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

shouting  grew  louder  and  louder.  It  was  like  a  swarm  of 
sparrows  playing  in  the  boughs.  But  the  innocent  glad- 
some game  soon  assumed  a  more  serious  aspect ;  the  shouts 
became  angrier,  and  little  hands  were  raised  in  passionate 
expostulation  :  the  merry  concert  turned  into  a  quarrelsome 
brawl — screams  were  heard  and  tears  began  to  flow.  A 
rush  was  made  for  their  parents,  the  assailants  being  eager 
to  justify  themselves  ;  the  wronged  pouring  forth  their 
complaints  ;  one  ran  to  his  father  for  protection,  the  other 
to  her  mother,  to  win  her  over  as  counsel  for  the  defence. 
Then,  from  an  impartial  spectator,  Marko  suddenly  assumed 
the  role  of  judge.  In  true  kadi  fashion,  and  in  defiance 
of  all  known  legal  procedure,  he  would  listen  to  neither 
plaintiff  nor  defendant,  but  simply  pronounced  and  exe- 
cuted his  judgment — a  slap  here  and  there,  as  occasion 
called  for  it ;  but,  with  the  little  ones — the  pets — a  kiss 
usually  met  the  requirements  of  the  case. 

So  peace  was  restored  ;  but  the  noise  had  woke  up  the 
youngest,  who  was  asleep  in  his  grandmother's  arms. 
**  Hush,  darling,  hush,  or  the  Turks  will  come  and  carry 
you  off,"  crooned  Grandma  Ivanitsa,  as  she  gently  rocked 
him.  This  roused  Marko.  "  Mother,"  he  said,  *'  why  do 
you  always  terrify  them  with  the  Turks  ?  You'll  only  make 
cowards  of  them."  "  Well,  well,  that's  my  way,"  said  the 
grandmother.  "  Why  shouldn't  I  ?  Aren't  the  Turks 
terrible  enough  ?  I've  seen  'em  now  for  over  sixty  years, 
and  they'll  be  just  the  same  when  I  die."  "  Ah  !  grand- 
ma," said  little  Petr,  "  when  I  and  brother  Vassili  and 
brother  Ghiorghi  grow  up,  we'll  take  our  scythes  and  kill  all 
the  Turks."  "  Won't  you  leave  a  single  one  of  them, 
dear  ?  " 

"  How  is  little  Asen  ?  "  asked  Marko  of  his  wife,  as  she 
came  out  of  the  house.  "  He's  quieter  now — he's  fallen 
asleep,"  she  answered.  "  There,  again,  what  business  had 
he  to  be  looking  at  that  kind  of  thing  ?  "  grumbled  the 
grandmother  ;  "  there  he  is  now,  ill  in  bed."  Marko 
frowned,  but  said  nothing.  It  should  be  mentioned  that 
Asen  had  been  taken  with  convulsions  through  looking  out 
of  the  school  window  while  they  were  bringing  in  the  head- 
less corpse  of  Gencho,  the  painter's  child,  from  the  fields. 
Marko  hurriedly  changed  the  conversation.  "  That  will  do, 
children  ;  I  want  your  elder  brother  to  tell  us  a  story  : 
tifter  that  you  shall  all  sing  a  song.     Come  along,  Vassili, 


A  VISITOR  5 

tell  us  what  the  teacher  taught  you  to-day . "  "  A  lesson  out 
of  the  History  of  the  World."  "  Well,  tell  us  all  about  it." 
"  The  war  for  the  Spanish  Succession."  "  What,  them 
Spanishers  ?  No,  no,  my  boy,  that's  no  good  ;  tell  us  some- 
thing about  Russia."  "  What  ?  "  asked  Vassili.  "  Why, 
something   about    Ivan    the   Cruel,    or   Bonaparte   when 

he    burned   Moscow,   or  \ "       Marko    did    not    finish 

his  sentence.  Something  rustled  at  the  dark  end  of 
the  yard  ;  tiles  fell  with  a  clatter  from  the  wall.  Hens 
and  chickens  woke  up  in  terror,  and  rushed  hither  and 
.thither  with  despairing  cluck.  The  servant  who  was 
taking  in  the  washing  hung  out  to  dry  shrieked  ''  Thieves  ! 
thieves  !  " 

The  courtyard  became  the  scene  of  the  wildest  confusion. 
The  women  rushed  to  the  house  and  hid  themselves  ;  the 
children  vanished  ;  but  Marko,  who  was  no  coward,  rose  to 
his  feet,  and  after  peering  into  the  darkness  from  whence 
the  noise  had  proceeded,  ran  into  the  house,  from  which  he 
immediately  emerged  with  a  pistol  in  each  hand,  and 
hurried  towards  the  stable. 

This  act — ^perhaps  not  the  most  prudent  one  possible — 
was  effected  so  rapidly  that  his  wife  had  no  time  to  seek  to 
restrain  him.  All  that  she  did  was  to  raise  her  voice  in 
entreaty,  but  even  this  was  drowned  by  the  angry  barking 
of  the  house  dog,  who  had  halted,  terrified  and  enraged,  by 
the  fountain. 

For  there  really  was  a  stranger  there  in  the  shadow 
between  the  stable  and  the  fowl-house,  but  the  darkness 
was  so  thick  that  nothing  could  be  seen,  being  still  more 
impervious  to  Marko's  eyes  owing  to  the  haste  with  which 
he  had  rushed  from  out  of  the  light  of  the  lantern. 

Marko  hastened  to  the  stable,  caressed  the  horse  so  as 
to  pacify  him,  and  peered  through  the  lattices  of  the 
window.  Whether  his  eyes  had  become  used  to  the  dark- 
ness, or  whether  it  was  fancy,  he  saw  in  the  corner,  by  the 
window  itseK,  something  upright,  like  a  man,  but  quite 
motionless. 

Marko  cocked  his  pistol,  leant  forward,  and  cried  in  loud, 
stern  tones,  "  Don't  stir,  or  else  you're  a  dead  man."  He 
waited  a  moment  with  his  finger  on  the  trigger. 

"  Gospodin  *  Marko,"  whispered  a  voice. 

"  Who's  there  ?  *'  asked  Marko  in  Bulgarian. 
*  Gospodin  is  Mr. 


6  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  Don't  be  afraid  ;  it's  a  friend."  And  the  stranger 
approached  nearer  to  the  window.  Marko  could  now  see 
his  figure  clearly. 

' '  Who  are  you  ?  "  asked  Marko  suspiciously  as  he  lowered 
his  pistol. 

'  Ivan,  son  of  old  Manola  Kralich,  of  Widdin." 

"  I  don't  know  you.     What  are  you  doing  there  ?  " 

"I'll  tell  you  directly,  sir,"  answered  the  stranger,  lowering 
his  voice. 

"  I  can't  see  you.     Where  have  you  come  from  ?  " 

"  I'll  tell  you,  sir  ;  from  far  away." 

"  Where  from  ?     What  do  you  mean  by  far  away  ?  " 

"  From  very  far  away,  Marko,"  whispered  the  stranger 
almost  inaudibly. 

"  From  where  ?  " 

*'  From  Diarbekir  !  "  *  murmured  the  stranger. 

The  word  had  an  electric  effect  on  Marko'  s  memory. 
He  remembered  that  one  of  old  Manola's  sons  had  been 
transported  to  Diarbekir.  Manola  had  long  had  busi- 
ness dealings  with  him,  and  had  rendered  him  many  a 
service. 

He  went  out  of  the  stable,  approached  his  nocturnal 
visitor  in  the  darkness,  took  him  by  the  hand,  and  led  him 
through  the  stable  into  the  shed. 

"  What,  Ivancho,  is  that  you  ?  I  remember  you  now, 
my  lad.  You  can  stop  here  overnight,  and  we'll  look  after 
you  in  the  morning,"  said  Marko,  in  a  low  tone. 

"  Thank  you,  Marko.  You're  the  only  person  I  know 
here,"  whispered  Kralich. 

"  Don't  talk  of  it.  Your  father  has  no  better  friend  than 
me.     Make  yourself  at  home  here.     Did  anyone  see  you  ?  " 

"  I  don't  think  so  ;  there  was  no  one  in  the  street  when 
I  came  in." 

"  Came  in — yours  is  a  nice  way  of  coming  in — over  the 
wall !  Never  mind.  Old  Manola's  son  is  always  a  welcome 
guest  here,  especially  when  he  comes  from  that  distance. 
Are  you  hungry,  Ivancho  ?  " 

*'  No — thanks,  sir  ;  I'm  not  hungry." 

"  Come,  come,  you  must  take  a  bit  of  supper.  Let  me 
go  and  quiet  my  people  dovm  first,  and  then  I'll  come  back 
and  we'll  talk  things  over.     God  bless  you,  my  boy,  I  might 

*  The  fortress  of  Diarbekir,  in  the  heart  of  Asia  Minor,  was  much 
used  as  a  place  of  transportation  for  political  criminals. 


THE  STORM  7 

have  done  you  a  mischief,"  said  Marko,  unloading  his 
pistols. 

"  Forgive  me,  Marko  ;  I  acted  very  foolishly." 

"  Stop  there  till  I  come."  And  Marko  went  out  and 
closed  the  stable  door. 

He  found  his  wife  and  mother  fainting  from  fright,  and 
when  they  saw  him  safe  and  sound  they  shrieked  and  threw 
their  arms  round  him,  as  if  to  prevent  him  from  going  out 
again.  Marko  reassured  them  laughingly  ;  he  had  seen 
no  one  in  the  courtyard — ^probably  some  cat  or  dog  had 
knocked  one  of  the  tiles  down,  and  that  had  frightened  silly 
Pena. 

"As  it  is,  we've  roused  the  whole  neighbourhood,"  he 
said,  hanging  his  pistols  up  again  on  the  wall. 

The  family  calmed  down  once  more. 

Old  mother  Ivanitsa  called  out  to  the  servant-maid  : 
"  Pena,  my  girl,  botheration  take  you  !  You've  given  us  a 
proper  fright.     Go  and  put  the  children  to  bed  at  once." 

Just  then  there  came  a  loud  knock  at  the  door.  Marko 
went  into  the  court  and  asked,  "  Who's  there  ?  " 

"  Open,  guv 'nor,"  was  the  answer  in  Turkish. 

"  The  on-bashi,"*  muttered  Marko  uneasily.  "  We  must 
hide  him  in  some  other  place."  And  taking  no  notice  of  a 
fresh  knock  at  the  door,  he  hurried  to  the  stable. 

"  Ivancho  !  "  he  called  in  the  shed. 

There  was  no  answer. 

"  He  must  have  fallen  asleep.  Ivancho  !  "  he  repeated, 
louder. 

No  one  replied. 

"  Poor  fellow  !  he  must  have  run  away,"  thought  Marko. 
noticing  for  the  first  time  that  the  stable  door  was  open. 
"  What  will  become  of  the  lad  now  ?  "  he  said  to  himself, 
anxiously. 

To  make  sure,  he  called  again  once  or  twice,  and  as  no 
reply  came  he  returned  to  the  door,  the  knocking  at  which 
had  become  furious,  and  threatened  to  break  it  in. 

CHAPTER  II :    THE  STORM 

In  truth,  at  the  first  knock  at  the  door,  and  without  knowing 
why  or  how,  Ivan  Kralich  had  clambered  hurriedly  over  the 
wall  and  leapt  into  the  street.     For  a  few  moments  he 

*  Lit.  decurion,  a  corporal  of  Zapti^B  (police). 


8  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

stood  bewildered.     Then  he  looked  carefully  round  him, 
but  there  was  nothing  save  impenetrable  darkness.     Black 
storm  clouds  were  already  covering  the  sky  ;  the  cool  even- 
ing breeze  had  become  a  chill  blast,  which  whistled  shrilly 
through  the  empty  streets.     Kralich  turned  down  the  first 
of  these  and  followed  it  hurriedly,  guiding  himself  by  the 
walls.     Every  door  and  window  was  closed  and  dark.    Not 
a  single  light  gleamed  through  the  shutters — ^not  a  sign  of 
life  anywhere.     The  hamlet  was  as  still  as  death,  like  all 
country  towns  long  before  midnight.     He  kept  on  at  random 
for  some  time,  hoping  to  find  his  way  out  into  the  open 
country.     Suddenly  he  started  and  stopped  under  a  broad- 
spreading  roof.     His  eye  had  discerned  dark  figures  moving. 
Kralich  stood  still  and  turned  with  precaution  to  the  door 
before  which  he  found  himself.     A  growl,  followed  by  an 
angry  bark,  made  him  start  back.     He  had  woke  up  the 
house-dog,  who  was  asleep  inside  the  porch.    His  move- 
ments and  the  barking  betrayed  him.     The  night  patrol 
stopped,   weapons   clashed,   and    "  Halt  !  "   was   cried   in 
Turkish.    At  moments   of  unavoidable  danger  a  man's 
presence  of  mind  deserts  him,  like  a  coward,  and  only  a 
blind  instinct  of  seK-preservation  takes  the  place  of  all  his 
moral  faculties.     Oue  then  has,  so  to  speak,  no  longer  a 
head,  but  only  one's  hands  for  self-defence  and  one's  legs 
for  flight.     Kralich  had  only  to  turn  back  and  the  darkness 
would  at  once  have  put  its  impenetrable  barrier  between 
him  and  the  patrol.     But  he  rushed  straight  at  it — ran  like 
the  whirlwind  right  through  the  police — and  fled.     The 
patrol  followed,  and  the  streets  rang  with  shouts  and  foot- 
steps.    Amongst  other  exclamations  was  heard  the  loud 
voice  of  the  Bulgarian  constable  {pandour),   "  Stop,  con- 
found you  !  we  are  going  to  fire  !  "     But  Kralich  fled  with- 
out turning  back.     A  few  carbines  were  discharged  after 
him,   but  without  effect — ^the  darkness  saved  him.     His 
flight  was  not  so  successful,  for  he  soon  felt  some  one  grasp 
him  by  the  sleeve.     He  hurried  on,  managing  to  free  himself 
of  his  coat,  which  he  left  in  the  hands  of  his  pursuers.     Two 
more  shots  were  fired  after  him.     Kralich  continued  to  fly, 
without  knowing  whither  he  was  going  :   he  scarcely  knew 
what  he  was  doing  :    his  legs  tottered  under  him  from 
weariness.     At  every  step  he  was  ready  to  fall  and  remain 
on  the  ground.     Suddenly  a  blinding  flash  of  lightning 
illuminated  the  darkness,  and  Kralich  saw  that  he  was  in 


THE  STORM  9 

the  fields  and  no  longer  pursued.  Then  he  threw  himself 
doA\Ti,  panting,  under  a  wahiut  tree,  to  rest  for  a  moment. 
The  mountain  blast  was  blowing  hard,  the  rustling  of  the 
leaves  mingled  with  its  roar  and  the  dull  rumbling  of  the 
thunder.  Soon  the  storm  came  perilously  near  ;  the  flashes 
became  more  frequent,  and  more  than  one  bolt  fell  close 
by  the  fugitive.  The  short  rest  and  cold  breeze  restored 
Kralich's  strength.  He  saw  it  would  soon  rain,  and  pressed 
onward  to  find  some  refuge  from  the  storm.  The  trees 
round  him  soughed  mournfully,  their  lofty  summits  bent 
under  the  force  of  the  wind,  grass  and  weeds  waved  to  and 
fro,  and  all  nature  seemed  on  the  alert  and  quivering  with 
terror.  Big  drops  of  rain  fell  here  and  there,  and  struck 
the  ground  like  bullets.  Another  flash  of  lightning  lit  up 
the  sky  behind  the  Balkan,  followed  by  a  deep  roll  of 
thunder  that  seemed  to  rend  the  heavens  in  two.  Heavy 
rain  poured  from  the  leaden  firmament  ;  flash  after  flash 
cleft  the  clouds  and  gave  fantastic  outlines  to  the  trees  and 
rocks.  Those  momentary  glimpses  of  scenery,  at  once 
swallowed  up  in  deep  darkness,  resembled  some  wonderful 
and  fearful  panorama.  There  was  a  wild  beauty  in  the 
strife  of  the  elements — in  the  conflict  of  the  horizons — the 
infernal  illumination  of  the  abysses  ;  a  majestic  spectacle,  in 
which  the  wonderful  combination  of  the  boundless  with  the 
mysterious  was  blended  in  an  unearthly  demoniacal  har- 
mony. In  storms  nature  attains  themes  of  sublimes t  poetry. 

Though  dripping  with  water  and  blinded  by  the  light- 
ning, while  the  crashing  thunder  still  rang  in  his  ears, 
Kralich  wandered  on  at  random  among  the  fields,  orchards, 
and  gardens,  where  no  refuge  was  to  be  had.  At  last 
the  plashing  of  a  waterfall  overcame  all  other  sounds  and 
reached  his  ears.  It  was  a  mill-stream.  On  a  sudden  a 
new  flash  disclosed  to  him  the  roof  of  the  mill,  nestling 
among  drooping  willows.  Kralich  stopped  under  the  eaves. 
He  pushed  at  the  door,  which  opened.  He  entered.  The 
mill  was  dark  and  silent.  Outside,  the  storm  had  calmed 
down  :  the  rain  was  slowly  ceasing,  and  the  moon  began  to 
appear  behind  the  clefts  in  the  clouds.  The  night  had 
cleared  up.  These  rapid  changes  in  weather  are  usual 
only  in  May. 

Soon  steps  were  heard  approaching  from  outside,  and 
Kralich  hastened  to  hide  in  a  narrow  space  between  the 
granary  and  the  wall. 


10  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  There  now — the  wind  has  blown  the  door  open,"  said 
a  rough  voice  in  the  darkness,  and  a  petroleum  lamp  was  at 
once  lighted. 

Kralich,  hidden  in  his  corner,  stooped  and  saw  the 
miller,  a  tall  gaunt  peasant,  and  with  him  a  barefooted  girl 
in  a  short  blue  dress,  probably  his  daughter,  who  was 
closing  and  trying  to  bolt  the  door.  She  was  about 
thirteen  or  fourteen  years  old,  but  still  quite  a  child,  and 
her  black  eyes  peeped  out  with  childish  innocence  from 
under  her  long  lashes.  Despite  her  neglected  dress,  her 
figure  gave  promise  of  future  gracefulness.  She  seemed  to 
have  come  from  some  mill  close  at  hand,  for  they  were 
dry.    The  miller  added  : 

"  It's  a  good  thing  we  turned  off  the  channel,  or  this 
storm  would  have  smashed  it.  Old  Stancho's  stories 
never  come  to  an  end.  It's  a  blessing  no  robber  came 
in."  He  looked  round  him.  "  Now,  Marika,  you  go  off 
to  bed.  I  wonder  why  your  mother  sends  you  here  ? 
Only  for  me  to  have  the  more  anxiety,"  added  the  miller, 
hammering  down  the  plank  in  the  channel,  and  humming 
a  tune  to  himself.  Marika,  without  waiting  any  longer, 
went  to  the  far  end  of  the  mill,  said  her  prayers,  shook 
out  some  blankets  and  lay  down  to  sleep  :  in  a  moment 
she  was  slumbering  peacefully. 

Kralich  watched  the  scene  with  lively  curiosity.  The 
miller's  rough  but  kindly  face  inspired  him  with  confidence. 
It  was  impossible  that  a  traitor's  soul  could  lurk  behind 
that  straightforward  and  honest  countenance.  He  decided 
to  come  out  and  ask  him  for  aid  and  counsel.  But  at  that 
very  minute  the  miller  stopped  humming,  drew  himself  up, 
and  listened  to  sounds  of  voices  outside.  A  loud  knock  was 
heard  at  the  door. 

"  Open  the  door,  miller,"  cried  some  one  in  Turkish. 

He  went  to  the  door,  fastened  the  bolt  securely,  and  re- 
turned pale  with  terror. 

The  hammering  at  the  door  continued,  and  a  fresh 
summons  was  made,  followed  by  the  bark  of  a  dog. 

"  Turks  out  hunting,"  muttered  the  miller,  whose  ear  had 
recognised  the  bark  of  a  greyhound.  "  What  do  the  brutes 
want  ?     It  must  be  Yemeksiz  Pehlivan." 

Yemeksiz  Pehlivan,  the  wildest  of  midday  and  midnight 
marauders,  was  the  terror  of  the  neighbourhood.  A  fort- 
night before  he  had  murdered  the  whole  family  of  Gancho 


THE  STORM  11 

Daghli  in  the  village  of  Ivanovo.  They  said — and  not 
without  some  ground — that  it  was  he  who  had  cut  off  the 
child's  head  which  had  been  brought  to  the  to\\Ti  the  day 
before. 

The  door  shook  under  the  knocking. 

The  miller  remained  for  a  moment  plunged  in  thought, 
clasping  his  head  with  both  hands,  in  doubt  as  to  what 
course  he  should  follow.  A  cold  sweat  broke  out  on  his 
forehead.  Suddenly  he  moved  to  a  dusty  shelf,  from  under 
which  he  took  an  axe,  and  then  went  to  the  door,  which  was 
nearly  beaten  in  by  the  knocking.  But  his  momentary 
decision  vanished  as  soon  as  he  glanced  at  his  daughter. 
A  terrible  hopelessness,  torture,  suffering  were  depicted  on 
his  face.  The  paternal  feeling  overcame  his  perturbed  con- 
science. He  thought  of  the  Bulgarian  proverb  :  "  The 
sword  does  not  strike  the  bowed  head,"  and  decided,  in- 
stead of  resistance,  to  beg  for  mercy — from  the  merciless. 
He  hurriedly  replaced  the  axe  behind  the  granary,  where 
Kralich  was  hidden,  covered  up  Marika  carefully,  and 
opened  the  door. 

On  the  threshold  stood  two  armed  Turks  in  hunting 
costume.  One  held  a  greyhound  in  a  leash.  The  first,  who 
was  in  truth  the  bloodthirsty  Yemeksiz  Pehlivan,  cast  an 
inquisitive  glance  round  the  mill,  and  entered.  He  was 
tall,  lame,  cadaverously  thin,  and  beardless.  His  face  was 
not  as  terrible  as  his  name  and  his  deeds  would  imply  ; 
but  his  small,  grey,  almost  colourless  eyes  twinkled  with 
evil  cunning,  like  a  monkey's.  His  companion  was  a  short, 
thick-set,  muscular  man,  with  a  face  of  bestial  expression, 
in  which  the  lowest  animal  instincts  and  ferocity  were 
apparent ;  this  man  followed  with  the  greyhound,  and  stood 
by  the  door. 

Yemeksiz  Pehlivan  looked  angrily  at  the  miller. 

The  two  men  took  off  their  dripping  overcoats. 

"  Why  didn't  you  open,  miller  ?  "  he  asked.  The  miller 
muttered  some  excuse,  bowing  to  the  ground,  and  casting  an 
uneasy  glance  at  the  end  of  the  mill  where  Marika  lay 
sleeping. 

"  Are  you  alone  here  ?  "  and  Yemeksiz  looked  round. 

"  Quite  alone,"  was  the  hurried  replj^ ;  then,  thinking  a 
lie  was  useless,  the  miller  added,  "  and  the  child  is  asleep 
over  there." 

Just  then  Marika  moved,  and  turned  her  face  towards 


12  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

them.  The  pale  light  of  the  lamp  shone  on  her  white 
throat.  The  Turks  cast  eager  glances  at  the  sleeping  girl. 
A  cold  sweat  moistened  the  miller's  forehead. 

Yemeksiz  turned  to  him  with  an  assumed  kindliness. 
"Guv'nor,"  he  said,  "sorry  to  trouble  you.  Go  and  buy 
us  a  bottle  of  raki." 

"  But,  Pehhvan  Aga,  all  the  shops  are  shut  now — it's  mid- 
night," answered  the  miller,  trembling  at  the  terrible  idea 
of  leaving  Marika  alone  in  such  company. 

The  cripple  answered  :  "Go  along  with  you  ;  no  shop 
would  refuse  to  serve  you  if  you  say  it's  for  me.  I  want  you 
to  treat  us — that's  the  way  to  make  friends." 

He  said  this  in  jest,  being  certain  of  obtaining  his  end. 
He  did  not  even  seek  to  hide  his  intention  from  the  unhappy 
father. 

Yemeksiz  glanced  at  the  sleeping  child  in  her  careless 
and  innocent  attitude .  Seeing  that  the  miller  did  not  move, 
he  began  to  grow  impatient,  but  still  retained  his  assumed 
gentleness,  and  said  quietly  : 

"  Mashallah  !  that's  a  pretty  girl  of  yours,  guv'nor.  Off 
you  go  ;  we're  your  guests,  you  know — you  must  treat  us. 
You  fetch  the  raki,  and  we'll  look  after  the  mill."  Then  he 
added  in  a  threatening  tone  :  "  Don't  you  know  Yemeksiz 
Pehhvan  ?  " 

The  miller  had  understood  from  the  first  the  abominable 
design  screened  by  that  shallow  trick.  His  simple,  honest 
nature  revolted  at  the  thought.  But  he  was  caught  in  the 
trap — he  was  alone  against  two  armed  men.  To  resist  was 
foolish  and  useless  ;  his  death,  which  was  now  a  matter  of 
indifference  to  him,  could  not  save  his  child.  He  tried 
again  by  prayers  to  soften  his  enemies  : 

"  Gentlemen,  I'm  an  old  man — take  pity  on  my  poor  old 
bones.  I'm  worn  out  by  my  day's  work  :  let  me  sleep  in 
peace.     Don't  blacken  my  face."* 

He  was  addressing  deaf  ears.  The  lame  Turk  exclaimed  : 
""  Come,  come,  man,  we're  thirsty — you  talk  too  much. 
Don't  you  live  in  the  mill  ?  Go  for  the  raki  !  "  And  he 
pushed  him  to  the  door. 

"  I  won't  leave  my  mill  at  this  time  of  night !  Let  me 
alone  !  "  said  the  miller,  hoarsely. 

The  two  Turks  then  threw  aside  their  feigned  gentle- 

*  I.e.,  "  Don't  bring  disgrace  upon  me  " — a  common  oriental  ex- 
pression. 


THE  STORM  13 

ness  of  manner,  and  their  eyes  flashed  furiously  on  the 
miller. 

"  What !  he  shows  his  tusks,  the  pig  !  "  cried  Yemeksiz, 
drawing  his  gataghan,  while  his  eyes  became  bloodshot. 

"  You  may  kill  me,  but  I  won't  leave  my  child  alone," 
said  the  miller,  humbly  but  decidedly. 

Yemeksiz  stood  up.  '*  Topal  Hassan,"  he  said,  "  throw 
the  dog  out — I  don't  want  to  dirty  my  knife." 

The  other  rushed  at  the  miller,  seized  him,  and  forced 
him  to  the  door,  whence  he  tried  to  spurn  him  with  his  foot. 
The  miller  rose  to  his  feet  and  sprang  in  again,  crying 
"  Mercy  !   mercy  !  " 

The  noise  woke  Marika,  who  stood  up  in  terror.  When 
she  saw  the  Turk's  drawn  sword  she  shrieked  and  fled  to 
her  father. 

"Mercy,  mercy,  gentlemen!"  cried  the  unfortunate 
father,  clasping  his  child  in  his  arms. 

At  a  sign  from  Yemeksiz  the  powerful  Topal  Hassan 
threw  himseK  like  a  tiger  on  the  miller,  seized  his  hands, 
and  bound  them. 

"  That's  it,  Topal  Hassan;  let's  tie  up  the  old  rat  of  a 
miller  ;  since  he  wants  to  stop  here,  let  him  stay  and  see 
the  show — that's  what  a  fool  like  that  deserves.  He  shall 
remain  tied  up,  and  when  we  set  fire  to  the  mill  it'll  be  our 
turn  to  look  on  and  enjoy  ourselves." 

And  the  two  brigands,  paying  no  attention  to  his  cries, 
forced  the  miller  up  to  a  beam  and  began  to  tie  him  with 
ropes. 

The  miller,  frenzied  with  terror  at  the  thought  of  what 
he  was  going  to  see,  roared  for  help  like  a  wild  beast ;  but 
no  help  was  to  be  hoped  for  in  that  lonely  place. 

Marika  opened  the  door  and  began  to  shriek  and  wail. 
But  only  the  echoes  replied. 

"  Here,  miss,  you  come  in.  We  want  you,"  cried 
Yemeksiz,  as  he  fetched  her  in.  "  Help,  help  !  "  cried  the 
miller  in  despair.  "  Is  there  no  one  ?  Marika,  come, 
dear,"  he  shouted  in  his  frenzy — calHng  on  his  child  for 
help. 

Krahch  had  all  the  while  been  watching  the  scene 
motionless  ;  his  legs  trembled  unnaturally,  his  hair  stood 
on  end,  and  the  cold  dew  was  on  his  face. 

All  that  he  had  seen  and  undergone  that  evening,  from 
leaving  Marko's  house  till  that  moment,  was  so  strange  and 


14  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

fearful  that  it  seemed  to  him  like  a  dream.  The  whistling 
of  the  bullets,  the  roar  of  the  thunder  were  still  echoing  in 
his  ears.  His  thoughts  were  confused.  At  first  he  had 
made  sure  the  Turks  had  come  for  him,  and  that  his  fate 
was  sealed.  The  conviction  of  his  utter  helplessness  had 
quenched  all  his  energy,  and  left  him  only  enough  to  give 
himseK  up  to  the  Turks,  so  as  to  save  the  miller.  But  now 
that  he  saw  that  he  was  to  be  a  spectator  of  something  far 
more  terrible,  and  when  he  heard  the  miller  call  Marika  to 
his  assistance,  a  blind  rage  and  despair  fired  his  very  soul. 
He  had  never  looked  on  blood  before,  but  the  Turks 
seemed  to  him  like  flies.  Fatigue,  weakness,  doubt — all 
disappeared.  He  stretched  out  his  hand  mechanically  and 
seized  the  axe  ;  he  passed  along  mechanically,  stooping 
behind  the  wheat-sacks  ;  rose  up,  pale  as  death,  rushed  at 
Yemeksiz,  who  stood  with  his  back  to  him,  and  plunged  the 
axe  into  his  body.     All  this  he  did  as  in  a  dream. 

The  Turk  fell  to  the  ground  without  a  groan. 

At  sight  of  this  sudden  and  dangerous  foe,  Topal  Hassan 
left  the  rope  with  which  he  was  fastening  up  the  miller,  drew 
his  pistol,  and  fired  it  at  Kralich.  The  mill  was  filled  with 
smoke,  the  action  of  the  shot  put  out  the  lamp,  and  all  were 
plunged  in  darkness.  Then  in  the  dark  began  a  terrible 
struggle,  with  the  hands,  nails,  feet,  teeth.  The  combatants, 
at  first  two,  but  soon  three  in  number,  rolled  in  the  dark 
mth  wild  cries  and  groans,  mingled  with  the  loud  bark  of 
the  dog.  Topal  Hassan,  as  strong  as  a  bullock,  resisted 
desperately  his  two  antagonists,  who  on  their  part  knew  they 
must  conquer  or  meet  a  fate  which  was  only  too  certain. 

When  the  lamp  shone  again,  Hassan  was  writhing  in  his 
death-agony.  Kralich  had  during  the  fight  managed  to  get 
hold  of  his  knife  and  plunge  it  in  his  breast.  The  two 
bodies  were  weltering  in  blood. 

Then  the  miller  rose  and  looked  with  wonder  at  the  un- 
known assistant  who  had  come  to  his  rescue.  Before  him 
stood  a  tall  young  man,  deadly  pale,  thin,  with  piercing 
black  eyes,  long  shaggy  hair,  covered  with  dust ;  his  coat 
was  torn,  stained  with  mud,  and  wet ;  his  waistcoat  had  lost 
its  buttons,  and  showed  that  he  had  no  shirt ;  his  trousers 
were  in  rags,  and  his  boots  scarcely  held  together.  In  a 
word,  it  was  a  man  either  just  out  of  gaol  or  on  his  way 
thither.  The  miller  took  him  as  such.  But  he  cast  a  look 
of  sympathy  on  him,  and  said  earnestly  ; 


THE  STORM  15 

"  Sir,  I  don't  know  who  you  are  or  how  you  come  to  be 
here.  But  as  long  as  I  live  I  can't  pay  you  back  for  this. 
You've  saved  me  from  death  and  from  worse  than  death  ; 
you've  spared  my  grey  hairs  from  shame.  May  God  ble&s 
and  reward  you.  The  whole  nation  will  honour  you  for 
what  you've  done.  Do  you  know  who  he  is  ?  (pointing  to 
Yemeksiz).  He's  made  mother  and  daughter  weep  before 
now.  Now  the  world's  free  of  the  monster.  God  bless 
you,  my  son  !  " 

Kralich  listened  with  tears  in  his  eyes  to  these  simple 
and  sincere  words — then,  much  moved,  he  said  : 

"  I  haven't  done  much,  father  ;  we  have  killed  two,  but 
there  are  thousands  and  thousands  more  such  monsters.  The 
Bulgarian  nation  can  only  free  itself  and  live  in  peace  if  all 
seize  their  axes  and  cut  down  the  enemy.  But  tell  me, 
where  are  we  to  bury  these  bodies,  so  as  to  leave  no  trace  ?  " 

"I've  got  a  grave  ready  for  the  unbelievers  :  only  help 
me  to  carry  them  out,"  said  the  old  man. 

Then  the  two  men,  between  whom  that  night  of  blood 
had  placed  an  eternal  bond  of  union,  carried  the  corpses 
out  to  an  old  pit  behind  the  mill,  and  threw  them  in,  cover- 
ing them  over  carefully  with  earth  so  as  to  leave  nothing 
showing.  On  returning  to  the  door  with  the  pick-axe  and 
shovel,  something  white  bounded  round  them. 

"  Ah,  the  dog  !  "  cried  Kralich  ;  "it  will  lurk  round  here 
and  betray  us.  I  must  knock  it  over  the  head,"  and  he 
struck  it  with  the  axe.  The  dog  fell  yelping  by  the  water. 
Kralich  pushed  it  into  the  mill-stream  with  his  axe,  and  it 
sank  there. 

'•  We  ought  to  have  buried  it  by  the  other  two  dogs,"  said 
the  miller. 

They  removed  the  blood-stains  from  their  clothes,  and 
covered  the  ground  over  with  leaves. 

"  Why,  what's  that  running  from  you  ?  "  asked  the  miller, 
seeing  that  Kralich's  hand  was  bleeding. 

"  Nothing  ;  only  where  the  brute  bit  me  while  I  was 
stabbing  him  in  the  heart." 

"  Let  me  bind  it  up  for  you  at  once,"  said  the  miller, 
tying  it  up  with  a  rag.  Then,  leaving  his  hand,  he  looked 
him  straight  in  the  face,  and  said  : 

"  I  beg  your  pardon,  my  son,  but  where  do  you  come 
from  ? "  And  he  cast  another  look  of  surprise  at  the 
stranger. 


16  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  I'll  tell  you  later  on,  father  ;  and  all  I  can  say  is  that 
I'm  a  Bulgarian,  and  a  good  Bulgarian.  Have  no  doubts  on 
my  score." 

"  My  God  !  I  should  think  you  were.  You're  a  real  Bul- 
garian and  no  mistake,  and  for  such  as  you  I'd  give  my  life." 

"  Tell  me  now  where  can  I  get  clothes  and  find  a  shelter 
for  the  night  ?  " 

"  Let's  go  to  the  monastery  to  Deacon  Vikenti.  He's  a 
relation  of  mine.  That  man  has  done  no  end  of  good. 
And  he's  a  real  Bulgarian  too.  Come  along  ;  we'll  all  sleep 
there.  It's  a  good  thing  no  one  saw  us."  Father  Stoyan 
was  mistaken  :  behind  the  walnut-tree  the  moon  now  showed 
a  tall  human  figure  which  had  witnessed,  motionless,  the 
burial  of  the  two  Turks.  But  neither  he  nor  Krahch  had 
noticed  it. 

Soon  after,  the  miUer,  Kralich,  and  Marika  (who  during 
the  struggle  had  hidden  herself  behind  an  elm -tree  and  was 
sobbing  piteously)  started  towards  the  monastery,  the  high 
walls  of  which,  standing  out  in  the  moonlight,  shone  forth 
against  the  dark  branches  of  the  walnuts  and  poplars.  Be- 
hind them  the  unknown  figure  also  proceeded  towards  the 
monastery. 

CHAPTER  III :  THE  MONASTERY 
They  passed  through  a  field,  where  great  boulders  of  rock 
were  scattered  here  and  there,  under  the  branches  of  the 
century-old  walnuts,  with  their  trunks  worn  and  rotting 
away  with  age  :  soon  the  high  walls  of  the  monastery  came 
clearly  into  view.  In  the  mysterious  softness  of  the  moon- 
Hght  it  resembled  an  old  Gothic  castle,  with  fantastically 
carved  gables. 

Some  years  before,  the  old  building  had  rejoiced  in  a 
gigantic  pine-tree,  which  sheltered  the  church  with  its  high- 
spreading  branches — the  home  of  a  thousand  feathered 
songsters.  But  a  storm  had  uprooted  the  pine  and  the 
church  tower,  and  a  new  tower,  which  had  been  erected  in 
its  place,  with  a  lofty  new-fashioned  cupola,  made  a  strange 
contrast  to  the  dilapidated  old  remains  of  a  past  age  :  it 
gave  one  the  same  shock  that  is  produced  by  a  piece  of 
fresh  white  paper  stuck  on  a  time-worn  parchment.  The 
old  church  and  tower  have  fallen  under  the  assaults  of  time 
and  destiny,  and  henceforth  the  monastery  has  become 


THE  MONASTERY  17 

sombre  :  the  eye  no  longer  follows  the  towering  pine  to  the 
clouds  :  the  soul  no  longer  draws  pious  inspirations  from 
the  paintings  on  the  walls  representing  saints,  archangels, 
holy  fathers,  and  martyrs,  defiled  and  with  their  eyes  put 
out  by  the  Kirjalis  and  Dehbashis.* 

Our  trio  passed  behind  the  monastery  and  stopped  by 
the  back  wall :  this  was  easier  of  access,  and  nearer  to- 
Deacon  Vikenti's  cell.  Moreover,  there  were  no  monastery 
dogs  there  to  bark  at  them,  nor  servants  to  ask  unnecessary 
questions. 

The  mountain  waterfalls  plashed  hard  by  and  filled  the 
neighbourhood  with  a  wild  echo. 

Some  one  had  to  climb  over  the  wall,  so  as  to  fetch  the 
ladder  from  inside  and  pass  it  to  the  others.  This  duty 
naturally  fell  to  Kralich's  lot,  he  having  begun  that  evening 
by  scaling  Marko's  wall. 

The  three  clambered  quickly  over  the  wall,  at  the  risk  of 
a  shot  from  the  warlike  higoumen,f  in  case  he  should  happen 
to  see  them  from  his  window.  They  entered  the  small  back- 
yard, which  communicated  with  the  great  quadrangle  by  a 
door  closed  on  the  inside.  The  deacon's  cell,  which  was 
on  the  ground  floor,  looked  on  to  the  back-yard.  They 
stopped  under  the  window,  where  a  light  was  still  burning. 

"  Vikenti's  still  reading,"  said  the  miller,  raising  himself 
on  tip -toe  and  looking  in.  He  knocked  at  the  window.  It 
was  opened,  and  a  voice  asked  : 

"  What,  Stoyan,  is  that  you  ?     Whatever  do  you  want  ?  " 

"  Give  me  the  door-key,  deacon,  and  I'll  tell  you.  Are 
you  alone  ?  " 

'•  Yes  ;   everybody's  asleep.     Here  you  are." 

The  miller  disappeared  in  the  shadow,  and  in  two  or 
three  minutes  reappeared  and  led  Kralich  and  his  daughter 
into  the  inner  quadrangle,  locking  the  door  behind  him. 

The  great  courtyard,  when  they  entered,  was  quite  still. 
The  silence  was  broken  only  by  the  monotonous  and  drowsy 
gurgling  of  the  spring,  which  resembled  the  last  groan  of  a 
dying  man.  Dark  rows  of  covered  verandahs,  silent  and 
deserted,  rose  all  round  the  quadrangle.  Black  cypress- 
trees  soared  high  above,  like  gigantic  phantoms.  The 
deacon's  cell  opened,  and  his  nocturnal  visitors  entered. 

*  Brigand  bands  that  infested  the  Balkans  early  in  the  past  century, 
t  The  Higoumen  (from  the  Greek  ijyovfi^vos)  is  the  abbot  of  a  monas- 
tery. 

B 


18  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

The  deacon,  who  was  quite  a  lad,  with  a  lively  counte- 
nance, black  intelligent  eyes,  and  a  sprouting  beard,  received 
Kralich  in  a  friendly  manner,  his  cousin's  hurried  explana- 
tions having  been  enough  to  assure  him  of  the  stranger's 
quality.  Indeed,  he  gazed  with  surprise  and  respect  at  the 
hero  who  had  accounted  for  the  two  ruffians  as  easily  as  one 
wrings  the  neck  of  a  couple  of  chickens,  and  had  saved  the 
old  man  and  his  daughter.  The  deacon's  honest  soul  recog- 
nised at  once  in  the  stranger  a  nature  as  noble  as  it  was 
heroic.  Old  Stoyan  had  given  him  a  hurried  and  confused 
account  of  the  affair  in  the  mill,  and  had  been  loud  in  his 
deUverer's  praise.  Vikenti  observed  his  utter  exhaustion 
and  pallor,  and  proposed  to  take  him  to  a  cell  where  he 
might  find  shelter  for  the  night.  So  they  proceeded  thither. 
The  deacon,  with  a  bundle  of  blankets  and  clothes  under 
his  arm,  led  the  way  through  the  slumbering  courtyard  ; 
they  reached  the  staircase  of  the  opposite  building,  con- 
sisting of  three  storeys  of  covered  verandahs,  and  mounted 
it.  They  passed  through  corridors  and  fresh  flights  of  stairs 
to  the  topmost  storey.  Though  they  stepped  with  precau- 
tion, every  stair  creaked  under  their  feet,  as  happens  in  all 
empty  wooden  houses.  Vikenti  lighted  a  candle,  and  the 
cell  into  which  they  had  entered  was  exposed  to  view.  It 
was  bare  and  cheerless  enough  to  look  at,  containing  only  a 
bed  with  a  straw  pallet  and  a  jug  of  water.  It  was  more  like 
a  prison  cell  than  a  bedroom,  but  Kralich  just  then  desired 
nothing  better.  After  some  conversation  as  to  the  events 
in  the  mill,  Vikenti  prepared  to  say  good-night. 

"  You  are  worn  out,  and  need  rest  as  soon  as  possible  ; 
so  I  will  not  weary  you  with  any  questions.  There  is  no 
need.  The  deed  of  heroism  which  you  have  accomplished 
to-night  tells  me  all.  We  shall  meet  to-morrow,  and  I  will 
only  say  now  :  don't  worry  yourself  about  anything.  Deacon 
Vikenti  is  at  your  entire  disposal.  Good-night."  And  so 
saying  he  stretched  out  his  hand  to  take  leave. 

Kralich  seized  and  held  it. 

"  No,"  said  he,   "  you  have  given  me  your  hospitality 
blindly,  and  have  exposed  yourself  to  danger  for  my  sake. 
You  ought  to  know  who  I  am.     My  name  is  Ivan  Kralich  !  " 

"  What,  Ivan  Kralich,  the  exile  ?  Why,  when  did  they 
release  you  ?  "  asked  the  astonished  deacon. 

"  Release  me  ?  I  escaped  from  the  fortress  of  Diarbekir. 
I'm  a  runaway." 


THE  MONASTERY  19 

Vikenti  pressed  his  hand,  and  greeted  him  : 

"  Welcome  here,  KraUch  :  you  are  a  still  dearer  guest  to 
me  now.  Bulgaria  requires  her  good  sons.  There  is  much 
work  to  be  done — much  work.  The  tyranny  of  the  Turks  is 
unbearable  and  the  national  dissatisfaction  has  reached  its 
utmost  limit.  We  must  get  ready.  Stay  with  us,  Gospedin 
Kralich,  no  one  will  know  you  here.  Stay  and  work  with  us 
— will  you  ?  "  asked  the  deacon,  much  excited. 

"  With  all  my  heart,  Father  Vikenti." 

"  To-morrow  we  will  talk  the  matter  over  in  detail.  Here 
you  are  in  complete  safety.  I  have  hidden  Levski  *  in  that 
cell  before  now.  No  one  comes  here — there  is  more  danger 
from  ghosts  than  from  human  beings.  Good-night,"  said 
the  deacon,  in  jest,  as  he  left  the  room. 

"  Good-night,  father,"  answered  Kralich,  shutting  the 
door. 

He  undressed  quickly,  lay  down,  and  blew  out  the  candle  ; 
but  he  lay  tossing  on  his  bed  for  many  an  hour  before  sleep 
came  to  his  weary  eyelids.  Fearful  memories  troubled  his 
spirit.  Before  his  fancy  there  passed  one  by  one  the  various 
scenes  and  forms  of  that  night,  with  repulsive  and  savage 
accuracy.  This  torture  lasted  for  a  long  time.  At  last 
nature  conquered  :  his  physical  and  moral  strength,  ex- 
hausted to  the  utmost,  yielded  to  the  imperious  necessity  of 
repose.  He  fell  asleep.  But  on  a  sudden  he  started  and 
opened  his  eyes  in  the  darkness.  He  heard  the  slow  and 
heavy  tread  of  some  one  walking  in  the  passage.  Then  a 
sound  of  singing  was  heard,  which  sounded  almost  like  a 
wail  of  sorrow.  The  steps  came  nearer,  and  the  unfamiliar 
singing  became  louder.  It  was  at  times  like  a  loud  wailing, 
at  others  like  a  mournful  dirge.  Kjralich  thought  that  the 
sounds  came  from  somewhere  else,  and  that  it  was  the 
surrounding  silence  which  made  them  seem  so  near  and 
ghastly.  But  no — the  steps  were  hard  by,  in  the  corridor. 
Suddenly  a  dark  figure  appeared  at  the  window  and  peeped 
in.  Krahch,  startled,  fixed  his  eyes  on  the  apparition,  and 
with  terror  saw  that  it  was  making  wild,  weird  gestures  with 
its  hands,  as  if  beckoning  to  him.  All  this  was  clear  in  the 
semi-darkness.  Kralich  could  not  withdraw  his  eyes  from 
the  window.  He  began  to  think  that  the  figure  was  that 
of  Yemeksiz  Pehlivan,   whom  he  had  killed.    Then  he 

*  A  noted  worker  in  the  cause  of  Bulgarian  liberty,  who  was  eventually 
taken  prisoner  by  the  Turks,  and  hanged  at  Sofia  in  1873. 


20  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

thought  he  must  be  dreaming,  and  rubbed  his  eyes.  Again 
he  looked — ^and  found  the  shadow  still  at  the  window, 
peering  in. 

Kjalich  was  not  superstitious,  but  this  deserted  building, 
with  its  deathlike  silence  and  darkness,  had  inspired  him 
involuntarily  with  terror.  He  thought  of  the  deacon's 
jesting  remark  about  ghosts,  and  the  place  seemed  to  him 
doubly  uncanny.  But  suddenly  he  felt  ashamed  of  himself. 
Groping  for  his  revolver,  he  grasped  it,  rose,  opened  the 
door  quietly,  and  went  out  barefoot  into  the  corridor.  The 
tall  mysterious  figure  was  still  walking  and  singing  in  its 
strange  fashion.  Kralich  approached  it  boldly.  The  singing 
phantom,  instead  of  disappearing,  as  in  stories,  shrieked 
with  terror,  because  Kralich  himself,  in  his  night-shirt,  was 
far  more  like  a  ghost. 

"  Who  are  you  ?  "  asked  the  new  ghost  of  the  old,  seizing 
him  by  the  garment. 

Fear  closed  the  unhappy  being's  lips.  He  could  only 
make  the  sign  of  the  cross,  gibbering,  and  shaking  his  head 
like  an  idiot.  Kralich  at  once  understood  that  such  he  was, 
and  let  him  go. 

Vikenti  had  forgotten  to  warn  his  guest  of  the  nightly 
wanderings  of  the  harmless  idiot  Mouncho,  who  had  for 
years  lived  in  the  monastery.  It  was  he  who,  unobserved, 
had  witnessed  the  burial  of  the  Turks. 


CHAPTER  IV  :  BACK  AT  MARKO'S 

When  Marko  opened  his  door  on  the  previous  night,  after 
KraUch's  escape,  he  encountered  on  the  threshold  the 
on-bashi  and  his  zapties,  who  entered  with  precaution. 

"  What's  up  here,  Marko  Chorbaji  ?  "  asked  the  on- 
bashi. 

Marko  quietly  explained  that  nothing  was  the  matter, 
but  that  the  servant  had  somehow  taken  fright.  The  on- 
bashi  at  once  expressed  himself  satisfied  with  this  meagre 
explanation,  and  went  out  in  glee  at  having  got  off  an  un- 
pleasant job. 

Just  as  Marko  was  shutting  his  door,  his  neighbour 
appeared.     "  All  over,  neighbour  ?  " 

"  What,  Ivancho  !  Come  in  and  we'll  have  a  cup  of 
coffee." 

"  Good  evening,  Marko.    Is  little  Asen  better  ?  "  asked 


BACK  AT  MARKO'S  21 

a  tall  youth  in  the  middle  of  the  road,  who  was  hurriedly 
approaching. 

"  Come  in,  come  in,  doctor."  And  Marko  led  them  into 
the  room,  which  was  at  once  brightly  lit  up  with  two  sper- 
maceti candles  fixed  in  shining  brass  candlesticks. 

The  guest-chamber  into  which  they  entered  was  a  small 
room,  but  bright  and  airy.  It  was  furnished  and  orna- 
mented in  the  unassuming  and  original  manner  which  even 
now  holds  sway  in  some  of  our  provincial  towns.  The  floor 
was  covered  with  bright  carpets,  and  the  two  divans  \n  ith 
scarlet  rugs,  all  of  home  make.  Against  one  of  the  walls 
stood  an  iron  stove,  which  was  lighted  only  in  winter,  but 
was  not  taken  away  in  summer,  as  being  one  of  the  orna- 
ments of  the  room.  Opposite  it,  on  the  eikonostasis,*  where 
a  light  burned  continually,  were  nailed  eikons,  over  which 
hung  sacred  prints  from  Mount  Athos,  a  pious  gift  from 
pilgrims.  The  eikons  were  very  old  paintings,  which  made 
them  all  the  more  precious  to  Grandmother  Ivanitsa,  as  old 
arms  are  to  collectors.  One  of  them,  of  great  antiquity, 
enjoyed  the  most  reverential  attention  of  the  old  lady,  who 
asserted  with  pride  that  it  had  been  painted  by  her  great- 
grandfather. Father  Hajji  Arseni,  who  had  accomplished 
the  miraculous  work  of  art  with  his  feet — an  assertion  no 
one  ever  ventured  to  controvert,  so  confidently  did  she 
make  it.  Behind  the  eikonostasis  was  fastened  a  bunch  of 
dried  cornflowers,  which  had  been  sprinkled  with  holy 
water,  and  a  willow  branch  from  the  decorations  of  last  Palm 
Sunday.  The  presence  of  these  in  a  house  was  an  infallible 
preservative  of  health  and  prosperity.  Round  the  walls  ran 
shelves  filled  with  porcelain  dishes  and  cups — the  inevitable 
decoration  of  every  house  worthy  of  respect — and  the 
comers  were  furnished  with  triangular  brackets  on  which 
stood  flower- vases.  Chibouks,  as  an  article  of  use,  had 
long  since  gone  out  of  fashion,  but  these  were  ranged  against 
the  wall,  with  their  yellow  amber  mouthpieces  and  inlaid 
bowls.  Marko,  for  old  tradition's  sake,  kept  one  chibouk 
for  his  private  use.  The  wall  opposite  the  windows  played 
the  important  part  of  picture-gallery.  In  all,  it  contained 
six  lithographs,  in  gilt  frames,  brought  from  Wallachia. 
Their  strange  selection  bore  witness  to  the  easy-going  taste 
of  the  time  in  matters  artistic.     Some  represented  scenes 

*  The  place  where  the  sacred  pictures  or  eikons  are  placed  against 
the  wall. 


22  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

from  the  internal  wars  of  Germany — one  was  a  picture  of 
Abd-ul-Mejid  on  horseback,  with  his  suite.  The  next 
portrayed  episodes  of  the  Crimean  War  :  the  battle  of  the 
Alma,  of  Eupatoria,  the  raising  of  the  siege  of  Silistria  in 
1852.  The  last  picture  of  all  represented  the  Russian 
generals  in  the  war,  all  depicted  down  to  the  knees  only. 
pPope  Stavri  asserted  that  their  legs  had  been  cut  ofP  by  the 
lEnghsh  cannon,  and  on  the  strength  of  this  Grandmother 
/ivanitsa  always  called  them  "  the  martyrs."  "  Who  has 
^  been  touching  the  martyrs  ?  "  she  would  ask  angrily  of  the 
children.  By  the  side  of  the  martyrs  stood  a  large  Dutch 
clock,  the  cham  and  weights  of  which  reached  down  to  the 
back  of  the  divan.  This  aged  timepiece  had  long  since 
become  past  work  :  its  springs  were  worn  out,  its  works 
distorted,  its  face  obliterated,  and  its  hands  broken  and 
twisted.  It  was  like  a  living  ruin.  But  Marko  prolonged 
its  life  at  the  cost  of  great  efforts  and  much  attention.  No 
one  but  he  was  allowed  to  touch  it ;  he  would  mend  it,  take 
it  to  pieces,  wind  it  up,  and  clean  it  with  a  feather  dipped 
in  oil,  thus  giving  it  a  new  lease  of  life  for  a  few  days,  after 
which  it  would  again  come  to  a  standstill.  Marko  jestingly 
called  it  his  "  consumptive  patient,"  but  he  and  all  the 
family  were  so  accustomed  to  it  that  the  whole  house 
seemed  silent  when  its  creaking  pendulum  stopped.  When- 
ever Marko  took  hold  of  its  chains  to  wind  it  up,  the  sufferer 
vented  from  its  inmost  recesses  such  weird  and  wrathful 
sounds  that  the  cat  fled  in  terror. 

Two  photographs  of  family  groups  on  the  same  wall 
completed  the  treasures  of  the  picture-gallery,  which  with 
the  clock  constituted  a  museum. 

Doctor  Sokoloff  was  a  young  man  of  twenty-eight,  lively, 
with  bright  ruddy  hair  and  blue  eyes,  an  open,  simple 
expression  of  countenance,  and  a  somewhat  boisterous, 
easy-going,  and  eccentric  manner.  He  had  served  as 
veterinary  surgeon  in  a  Turkish  regiment  on  the  Montene- 
grin frontier,  and  had  acquired  a  thorough  knowledge  of  the 
language  and  customs  of  the  Turks — he  drank  raki  and 
fraternised  with  the  on-bashi  every  afternoon,  but  at  night 
terrified  him  by  firing  a  revolver  up  his  chimney :  at  present 
he  was  devoting  much  of  his  time  to  the  education  of  a 
bear.  The  better-class  Bulgarians  looked  somewhat  ask- 
ance at  him,  and  placed  their  trust  rather  in  the  Greek 
apothecary  Yaneli ;  but  he  was  a  popular  favourite  with  all 


BACK  AT  MARKO'S  23 

the  youth  of  the  town  on  account  of  his  gay,  open  nature, 
and  his  fervent  patriotism.  He  was  always  the  prime 
mover  in  social  festivities  and  "  Committee  "  *  plots,  and, 
indeed,  spent  most  of  his  time  in  these  two  occupations. 
He  had  never  gone  through  a  regular  course  of  medicine, 
but  his  younger  friends  had  given  him  the  title  of  Doctor  to 
place  him  on  a  higher  footing  than  the  Greek  chemist,  and 
he  had  not  thought  it  necessary  to  protest  against  the 
calumny.  As  for  his  treatment  of  his  patients,  he  left  them 
to  the  care  of  his  two  faithful  assistants — the  healthy 
Balkan  air  and  nature.  Hence  he  rarely  had  recourse  to 
his  pharmacopoeia,  which,  indeed,  being  in  Latin,  was  a 
sealed  book  to  him  ;  and  all  his  dispensary  was  contained 
on  a  single  small  shelf.  No  wonder  that  he  thus  managed 
to  take  the  wind  out  of  the  sails  of  his  rival. 

Sokoloff  was  Marko's  family  doctor,  and  had  come  to 
visit  little  Asen. 

The  other  visitor  was  Ivancho  Yotata.  He,  like  a  good 
neighbour,  had  come  to  see  what  was  the  matter,  and  pass 
the  time  of  day.  For  a  few  minutes  the  conversation  was 
taken  up  with  the  event  of  the  evening,  and  Ivancho 
eloquently  described  his  impressions  and  dismay. 

"  To  tell  you  the  truth,"  he  rambled  on,  "  just  as  our  Lala 
was  clearing  the  table,  I  heard  a  most  prodigious  to-do 
in  your  courtyard,  Marko.  Then  the  dog  was  making  a 
tremendous  row.  I  was  frightened — at  least,  I  wasn't 
exactly  frightened,  but  I  said  to  Lala  :  '  Lala,'  says  I, 
'  whatever  is  the  matter  next  door  ?  Just  look  over  the 
wall  into  their  courtyard.'  Then  it  struck  me  that  this  was 
more  a  man's  business  than  a  woman's.  So  I  boldly  climbed 
on  to  the  wall  and  looked  over.  Your  courtyard  was  pitch 
dark.  What's  all  this  to-do  about  ?  thinks  I,  knowingly  ; 
let  me  give  notice  to  the  police.  But  Lala  was  standing 
behind  me  and  catching  hold  of  my  coat.  '  Where  are  you 
going?'  says  she.  'Not  to  Marko's,  I  hope  ?  '  'No, no,' 
says  I.  '  There's  nothing  the  matter  :  lock  the  gate  into 
Marko's  yard.'  " 

"  There  was  no  need,  Ivancho — ^there  was  nothing  the 
matter,"  said  Marko,  smiling. 

*  The  Revolutionary  Committees,  common  in  Bulgaria  from  about 
1872  to  1876,  had  made  a  great  impression  on  the  Turks,  and  all  Bul- 
garian insurgents  were  by  them  called  "  Koumitajis,"  or  simply  "  Kou- 
mita." 


24  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  Then,"  continued  Yotata,  "  I  said  to  myself  :  '  We  must 
inform  the  authorities  :  M.  Marko  is  my  neighbour,  and 
mustn't  be  left  in  danger.'  So  I  rushed  downstairs,  with 
Lala  screaming  after  me.  '  Silence,'  said  I  in  a  manly  tone. 
I  went  out  of  the  door,  and  lo  and  behold  !  all  was  as  still  as 
the  dead." 

"  Is  little  Asen  asleep  yet,  Marko  ?  "  asked  the  doctor,  to 
stay  the  flow  of  Ivancho's  oratorical  display.  But  Ivancho 
hastened  to  continue  : 

"  When  I  saw  that  the  street  was  as  still  as  the  dead,  I  said 
to  myself  :  '  Don't  you  trust  it,  Ivancho  '  ;  and  I  turned 
back  and  came  out  by  the  back  door — that  is,  I  got  out  into 
the  blind  alley,  turned  out  of  it  past  Petko's  door,  then  past 
the  Mahmoud's,  past  Uncle  Gencho's  dung-heap,  and  then 
straight  to  the  Konak.  I  went  in,  looked  round,  and  at 
once  boldly  informed  the  on-bashi  that  there  were  robbers 
in  your  house,  and  that  the  fowls  were  flying  about  the 
yard." 

"  I  tell  you  there  was  no  one  there  ;  your  trouble  was 
quite  unnecessary,  Ivancho."  Meanwhile  the  storm  was 
raging  outside  in  all  its  fury. 

"  By  the  way,  Marko,  I  had  quite  forgotten  to  ask  you," 
said  the  doctor  suddenly  ;  "  did  a  young  man  call  this 
evening  ?  " 

"  What  young  man  ?  " 

"  A  stranger,  pretty  badly  dressed,  but  fairly  intelligent- 
looking,  as  far  as  I  could  see.  He  was  asking  for  your 
house." 

"  Where  did  you  see  him  ?  No  one  called,"  answered 
Marko,  with  evident  confusion,  which,  however,  his  visitors 
had  no  reason  to  observe. 

The  doctor  went  on  quietly  : 

"  A  young  man  addressed  me  just  at  nightfall,  near  Hajji 
Pavli's  rose-field.  He  asked  me  politely,  '  Can  you  tell  me, 
sir,  if  Marko  Ivanoff's  house  is  far  ?  I  want  to  see  him,' 
says  he,  '  it's  the  first  time  I  have  been  here.'  I  happened 
to  be  going  the  same  way,  so  I  offered  to  show  him  your 
house.  On  the  road  I  looked  at  him  carefully  :  the  poor 
fellow  was  almost  in  rags — his  coat  was  very  thin  and  all 
torn,  as  far  as  I  could  see  in  the  dark.  He  was  tired  and 
weak,  and  could  scarcely  stand  on  his  feet,  and  in  this  awful 
weather,  too  !  I  didn't  dare  to  ask  him  where  he  was 
coming  from  or  why  he  was  in  that  state,  but  I  was  sorry 


BACK  AT  MARKO'S  25 

for  the  poor  fellow.  And  when  I  saw  his  vest  was  in  rags, 
and,  so  to  speak,  falling  to  pieces,  I  couldn't  resist  asking 
him,  '  I  hope  you  won't  be  angry  with  me,  sir,  if  I  offer  you 
my  overcoat — ^you  will  forgive  me,  won't  you  ?  '  He  said 
'  Thank  you,'  and  took  it.  So  we  came  as  far  as  your 
house,  and  then  I  left  him.  I  wanted  to  ask  you  who  he 
was." 

"  I  tell  you,  no  one  came  to  call." 

"  That's  funny,"  said  the  doctor. 

"  Perhaps  it  was  a  robber,  who  chmbed  on  to  your  roof, 
Marko  ?  "  asked  Ivancho.  "  That  may  have  caused  all  this 
to-do." 

"  It's  impossible  that  that  young  man  should  have  been 
a  robber,"  said  the  doctor,  curtly  ;  "  anyone  could  see  that 
from  his  face." 

The  conversation  was  assuming  an  unpleasant  tone,  and 
Marko,  to  change  it,  turned  to  Sokoloff. 

"  Have  you  read  the  paper,  doctor  ?  How's  the  revolt 
in  the  Herzegovina  getting  on  ?  " 

"  It's  all  over,  Marko.  That  heroic  nation  has  achieved 
miracles,  but  what  can  they  do  against  such  odds  ?  " 

"  Goodness  me  !  A  handful  of  men  like  that  to  hold 
out  so  long.  Why  can't  we  do  something  of  the  kind  ?  " 
said  Marko. 

"  We've  never  tried,"  said  the  doctor  ;  "  we're  five  times 
as  many  as  the  Herzegovinians,  but  we  don't  know  our  own 
strength  yet." 

"Don't  think  of  such  a  thing,  doctor,"  said  Marko. 
"  We're  one  thing  and  the  Herzegovinians  are  another  ; 
we're  in  the  jaws  of  hell :  we've  only  to  move  to  be  cut 
down  like  sheep.  There's  nowhere  we  can  look  to  for 
aid." 

"  Well,  well,  I've  got  a  gun,  but  I  haven't  cleaned  it  for 
twelve  years,"  said  Yotata. 

"  I  ask  you,  have  we  ever  tried  ?  "  repeated  the  doctor 
impatiently. 

"  They  kill  us  and  cut  us  to  pieces  without  our  trying  : 
the  more  submissive  we  are,  the  more  they  ill-use  us. 
What  had  that  poor  child  of  Gancho's  done,that  was  brought 
in  yesterday  beheaded  ?  They  threaten  us  with  the  gallows 
if  we  venture  to  protest  against  their  tyranny,  and  the 
Yemeksiz  Pehlivans  are  allowed  to  torture  us  to  their  heart's 
content,  unpunished.    WTiat  kind  of  justice  do  you  call 


26  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

that  ?  The  mildest  would  revolt  against  it.  Even  a  worm 
will  turn,  as  the  saying  is." 

Grandmother  Ivanitsa  entered. 

"  What  do  you  think  ?  "  said  she  ;  "  Pena  says  before  the 
rain  began  she  heard  guns  fired.  Dear,  dear  !  I  wonder 
what  is  the  matter.  Holy  Virgin,  some  poor  Christian  soul 
has  perished  again,  I  suppose." 

Marko  started  :  his  countenance  changed.  He  had  a 
presentiment  that  something  had  happened  to  Kralich. 
His  heart  overflowed  with  grief,  which  he  was  unable  to 
conceal. 

"  Why,  Marko,  what's  the  matter  ?  "  said  the  doctor, 
feeling  his  pulse  and  scanning  his  countenance,  which 
showed  only  too  plainly  the  signs  of  intense  moral 
suffering. 

The  rain  had  stopped.  The  visitors  rose  to  take  leave. 
The  news  had  disturbed  them. 

"  Nonsense  !  the  maid  must  have  fancied  it  all — most 
likely  some  one  shutting  his  shutters.  Don't  be  afraid — 
courage  !  "  said  Ivancho  Yotata,  boldly.  "  Grandmother, 
is  your  side  door  open  ?  "  And  while  Marko  was  showing 
the  doctor  out,  Ivancho  hurriedly  left  by  the  side  door, 
opened  for  him  on  the  other  side  by  his  wife, 

CHAPTER  V  :    THE  REST  OF  THE  NIGHT 
Doctor  Sokoloff  knocked  at  his  door. 

It  was  opened  by  an  old  woman,  whom  he  asked,  as  he 
passed  by  her  hurriedly  :   "  How's  Cleopatra  ?  " 

"  She's  been  asking  for  you,"  replied  the  old  woman  with 
a  smile. 

The  doctor  passed  through  the  long  courtyard,  and 
entered  his  room.  This  apartment,  which  was  at  the  same 
time  his  receiving-room,  study,  dispensary,  and  bedroom, 
was  a  broad  bare  room  with  cupboards  in  the  walls  and  a 
deep  fireplace.  On  a  small  shelf  were  arranged  all  his 
drugs  ;  on  the  little  table  were  scattered  a  small  mortar  and 
pestle,  a  few  medical  books,  and  a  revolver  ;  a  double- 
barrelled  matchlock  hung  over  the  bed.  The  only  picture 
with  which  the  walls  were  adorned  was  a  portrait  of  Prince 
Nicolas  of  Montenegro,  beneath  which  was  the  photograph 
of  some  actress.  Everything  showed  that  the  room  was  that 
of  an  easy-going  bachelor :  it  was  dull,  bare,  and  untidy. 


THE  REST  OF  THE  NIGHT  27 

In  the  comer  was  the  haK-opened  door  of  the  cellar,  where 
three  years  ago  Levski  had  spent  the  night. 

The  doctor  flung  off  his  fez  and  coat  carelessly,  ap- 
proached the  cellar  door,  clapped  his  hands,  and  cried  out ; 
"  Cleopatra,  Cleopatra  !  " 

There  was  no  answer. 

"  Come  out,  Cleopatra  darling  !  " 

A  sound  was  heard  from  the  cellar. 

The  doctor  sat  down  on  a  chair  in  the  middle  of  the 
room,  and  called,  "  Here,  Cleopatra  !  " 

A  bear,  or  rather  a  bear-cub,  came  out. 

It  approached,  dragging  its  massive  paws  along  the 
ground,  and  purring  joyfully.  Then  it  sprang  up  and 
placed  its  forepaws  on  the  doctor's  knees,  opening  its 
capacious  jaws  and  displaying  its  teeth,  sharp  and  glittering. 
It  fawned  on  him  like  a  dog,  while  the  doctor  gently  stroked 
its  head,  and  gave  it  his  hand  to  lick. 

The  beast  had  been  caught,  while  quite  young,  on  the 
Sredna  Gora,  by  a  peasant,  who  had  given  it  to  Sokoloff  for 
having  cured  his  child  of  a  serious  illness.  The  doctor  had 
become  much  attached  to  it,  and  took  the  greatest  pains  to 
procure  proper  food  for  it.  Cleopatra  flourished  exceed- 
ingly under  this  sedulous  care,  took  lessons  in  gymnastics 
with  the  best  grace  possible,  and  her  devotion  to  her  master 
increased  daily. 

Cleopatra  now  danced  a  bear's  polka,  carried  the  doctor's 
hat  for  him,  waited  on  him,  and  guarded  his  room  like  a  dog. 
But  it  was  a  real  "  bear's  {i.e.,  doubtful)  service,"  for  her 
presence  in  the  house  kept  away  the  doctor's  patients  : 
however,  he  did  not  trouble  himseK  about  that. 

When  she  got  well  into  her  polka,  Cleopatra  would  roar  furi- 
ously, so  that  when  she  danced  the  whole  neighbourhood 
knew  it.  On  such  occasions  Sokoloff  danced  gaily  with  her. 

That  evening  he  was  altogether  in  the  mood  for  dancing. 
He  threw  Cleopatra  a  piece  of  meat,  saying,  "  Eat  it, 
darling  ;  they  say  a  hungry  bear  won't  dance,  and  I  want 
you  to  dance  for  me  like  a  princess  to-night." 

The  bear  understood,  and  answered  with  a  growl,  which 
meant  "  I  am  ready."  The  doctor  began  to  sing,  beating 
time  on  a  brass  dish  : 

Dimitra,  dear,  my  fair-haired  lass, 

Oo  tell  your  mother,  Dimitra, 
You're  the  only  lass  I  love  .... 


28  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

Cleopatra  stood  up  on  her  hind  legs  and  danced  with 
frenzy,  roaring  all  the  time.  Suddenly  she  sprang  to  the 
window  with  an  angry  growl.  The  doctor  looked  out  and 
saw  there  was  some  one  in  the  courtyard. 

He  seized  his  revolver.  "  Who's  there  ?  "  he  asked,  forcing 
the  bear  to  be  quiet. 

"  Doctor,  you're  wanted  at  the  Konak  !  " 

"  Is  that  you,  Sherif  Aga  ?  What  the  devil  do  you  want 
me  for  now>     Who's  ill  ?  " 

"  Stop  that  bear's  noise  first." 

The  doctor  made  a  sign  to  Cleopatra,  who  retreated  un- 
willingly, and  with  an  ominous  growl,  into  her  cellar,  the 
door  of  which  he  closed  after  her. 

"  My  orders  are  to  take  you  to  the  Konak.  You're  a 
prisoner,"  said  the  on-bashi  sternly. 

"  A  prisoner  ?     I  ?     What  for  ?  " 

"  You'll  find  that  out  soon  enough.  Come,  let's  get  on." 
And  they  went  off  with  the  doctor  confused  and  dismayed  : 
he  had  a  presentiment  of  trouble. 

As  they  went  out  they  heard  a  heartrending  roar  from 
Cleopatra,  which  sounded  almost  like  human  lamenta- 
tion. 

At  the  Konak  all  was  confusion.  They  took  the  doctor  to 
the  Bey. 

The  latter  was  sitting  in  his  usual  place  in  the  corner  of 
the  room.  By  his  side  sat  Kiriak  Stefchoff,  reading  from' 
some  paper,  at  which  Necho  Pironkoff — the  Bulgarian 
member  of  the  Local  Council — was  peeping  over  his 
shoulder.  The  Bey,  who  was  about  sixty  years  of  age, 
received  the  doctor  coldly,  but  offered  him  a  chair.  Sokoloff 
was  the  Bey's  family  doctor,  and  rather  a  favourite  of  his. 
And  the  Turks  usually  treated  their  prisoners  with  a  show 
of  kindness,  to  induce  them  to  confess. 

The  doctor,  in  looking  round  the  room,  was  astonished 
to  see  on  the  divan  the  overcoat  he  had  given  to  Kralich. 

This  discovery  redoubled  his  dismay. 

"  Doctor,  is  that  coat  yours  ?  "  asked  the  Bey. 

The  doctor  did  not  dream  of  denying  the  fact,  which  was, 
indeed,  seK-apparent.     He  answered  affirmatively. 

"  Why  is  it  not  in  your  possession  ?  " 

"  Because  I  gave  it  to  a  poor  man." 

"  Where  ?  " 

"  In  the  Hajji  Shadoff  street," 


THE  REST  OF  THE  NIGHT  29 

"  At  what  time  ?  " 

"  At  two  o'clock  (Turkish  time)."  * 

"  Do  you  ktiow  who  he  was  ?  " 

"  No  ;  but  I  was  sorry  for  him,  because  he  was  in  rags." 

"  How  the  poor  fellow  lies  !  "  said  Necho  contemptuously. 

"  Well,  that's  only  natural — a  drowning  man  catches  at  a 
straw,"  repHed  his  neighbour. 

The  Bey  smiled  ominously  as  having  detected  a  manifest 
lie.  He  was  perfectly  certain  that  the  coat  had  been  taken 
from  the  doctor's  back  by  the  police,  as  the  patrol,  indeed, 
assured  him  was  the  case. 

"  Kiriak  Effendi,  give  me  the  papers.  Do  you  know 
these  papers  ?  " 

The  doctor  looked.  They  were  a  copy  of  the  newspaper 
N ezavisimost  f  and  a  printed  revolutionary  proclamation. 
He  denied  all  knowledge  of  them. 

"  Then  how  do  they  come  into  the  pockets  of  your 
coat  ?  " 

"  I  have  already  told  you  that  I  gave  the  coat  away  to 
some  one.     Perhaps  he  put  them  there." 

The  Bey  shrugged  his  shoulders.  The  doctor  saw  that 
things  were  getting  serious — at  best  they  made  him  out  to 
be  connected  mth  a  revolutionary,  as  it  seems  the  stranger 
was.  If  he  had  only  kno^vn  that,  he  would  have  been  more 
careful,  and  might  have  saved  them  both  from  trouble. 

"  Call  the  wounded  Osman,"  ordered  the  Bey. 

A  zaptie  came  in  with  his  arm  bound  up  above  the  elbow. 
It  was  he  who  had  seized  the  coat  from  Kralich's  shoulders 
and  at  that  moment  had  been  wounded  by  a  shot  fired  by 
one  of  his  comrades.  He  was,  or  pretended  to  be,  fully 
convinced  that  it  was  the  fugitive  "  Koumita  "  J  who  had 
fired  at  him. 

Osman  advanced  towards  the  doctor  :  "  That's  the  man, 
sir." 

"  Is  that  the  man  from  whom  you  took  the  coat  ?  Do 
you  recognise  him  ?  " 

"  That's  the  man,  and  it's  he  who  fired  at  me." 

The  doctor  looked  at  him  bewildered  :    he  was  struck 

*  I.e.,  two  hours  after  sunset. 

t  Independence,  the  organ  of  the  Bulgarian  Revolutionary  Committee 
at  Bucharest. 

X  The  insurgents  were  by  the  Turks  called  "  Koumitaji  "  or  simply 
"  Koumita,"  the  nearest  approximation  to  the  word  "  Committee,"  with 
which  they  were  supposed  to  be  connected. 


30  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

dumb  by  the  grave  and  unfounded  charge  brought  against 
him. 

"  The  zap  tie  lies  in  the  most  barefaced  manner,"  he 
said. 

"  You  may  go,  Osman  Aga.  Well,  sir,"  added  the  Bey, 
in  a  serious  tone,  "  do  you  deny  all  this  ?  " 

"  The  whole  thing  is  a  fabrication.  I  never  carry  a 
revolver,  and  I  didn't  go  through  the  Petkanchoff  Street 
this  evening." 

The  on-bashi  approached  the  lamp,  examined  the  doctor's 
revolver  which  he  had  taken  off  his  table,  and  said  signifi- 
cantly :  "  There  are  four  chambers  loaded,  but  one  cartridge 
is  missing."     The  Bey  nodded  attentively. 

"  I  tell  you  that's  another  mistake  of  yours — I  never 
took  my  revolver  this  evening." 

"■  Tell  us,  doctor,  where  were  you  at  three  o'clock  when 
all  this  afifair  happened." 

This  unexpected  question  fell  like  a  thunderbolt  on 
Sokoloff.  He  reddened  with  confusion,  but  managed  to 
reply  in  a  confident  manner  : 

"  At  three  o'clock  I  was  at  Marko  Ivanoff's — his  child 
is  iU." 

"  It  was  nearly  four  o'clock  when  you  went  in  to  Marko's 
— ^we  were  just  coming  out,"  said  the  on-bashi,  who  had  met 
the  doctor  on  his  way  thither. 

The  doctor  remained  silent :  appearances  against  him 
were  too  strong.     He  saw  he  was  in  a  fix. 

"  Well,  then,  tell  us  where  you  were  from  the  time  you 
gave  away  your  coat  in  the  Hajji  Shadoff  Street,  until  you 
v/ent  to  Marko's  house,"  said  the  Bey,  thus  skilfully  putting 
a  simple  question  which  could  only  be  met  with  a  simple 
answer.  But  Dr.  Sokoloff  did  not  reply.  His  face  gave 
signs  of  a  sharp  internal  struggle,  accompanied  by  moral 
suffering. 

His  confusion  and  silence  were  clearer  than  a  confession. 
They  completed  the  other  proofs.  The  Bey  was  convinced 
he  had  the  real  culprit  before  him  ;  however,  he  asked  yet 
once  more  : 

"  Tell  us  where  you  were  at  that  time,  doctor." 

"  I  cannot  tell  you,"  said  the  doctor,  in  quiet  but  decisive 
tones.  This  answer  struck  everybody.  Necho,  the  member 
of  Council,  winked  ironically  at  Stefchdff,  as  if  to  say,  "  The 
poor  fellow  is  done  for." 


/ 


THE  LETTER  31 

*'  Come,  doctor,  tell  us  where  were  you  ?  " 

"  I  can't  possibly  tell  you  that ;  it's  a  secret  which  my 
honour,  both  as  a  man  and  a  doctor,  forbids  me  to  reveal. 
But  I  was  not  in  the  Petkanchoff  Street,"  said  the  doctor, 
firmly  and  resolutely. 

The  Bey  pressed  him  to  answer  the  question,  pointing 
out  the  dangerous  consequences  if  he  should  continue  to 
refuse  to  speak.  But  the  doctor  seemed  quite  calm,  like  a 
man  who  has  said  all  he  has  to  say. 

"  Won't  you  say  ?  " 

"  I  have  no  more  to  say." 

"  Then,  sir,  you  will  be  my  guest  to-night.  Take  the 
doctor  down  to  the  cells,"  said  the  Bey,  sternly.  The 
doctor  went  out,  bewildered  by  the  crushing  accusations 
which  he  was  not  in  a  position  to  refute  ;  for,  as  he  said 
himself,  he  could  by  no  possibility  reveal  the  place  where 
he  was  at  three  o'clock  that  evening. 

CHAPTER  VI :   THE  LETTER 

Marko  slept  badly  that  night.  The  events  of  the  evening 
had  disturbed  his  peace  of  mind.  He  got  up  earlier  than 
usual,  and  when  he  went  to  Ganko's  for  his  morning  cup  of 
coffee  the  proprietor  had  only  just  taken  down  his  shutters 
and  was  lighting  his  fire.     Marko  was  his  first  customer. 

Cafe-keepers  are  great  chatterboxes,  and  Ganko,  after  the 
usual  obligatory  jokes,  which  he  always  produced  with 
Marko's  morning  coffee,  at  once  proceeded  to  give  him  an 
account  of  the  doctor's  adventure  in  the  Petkanchoff  Street 
and  its  consequences,  interlarding  his  story  with  a  number 
of  coarse  and  silly  jests.  Ganko  told  his  tale  with  much 
excitement.  In  general  the  misfortunes  of  others  invariably 
produce  a  threefold  impression  on  small  minds  :  first, 
surprise  ;  next,  an  internal  satisfaction  that  the  misfortune 
has  happened  to  some  one  else  ;  and  thirdly,  a  secret  and 
malicious  joy.  Such  are  the  hidden  instincts  which  human 
nature  conceals.  As  for  Ganko,  he  had  even  greater  cause 
for  wishing  evil  to  the  doctor,  the  latter  having  once 
deducted  twelve  cups  of  coffee  from  his  score  as  payment 
for  one  professional  visit.  Ganko  had  never  forgiven  him 
this  exorbitant  and  unheard-of  charge. 

Marko  could  not  contain  himself  for  surprise.  He  had 
conversed  with  the  doctor  on  the  previous  evening,  and 


82  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

neither  his  countenance  nor  his  conversation  had  led  him 
to  suspect  anything  extraordinary.  Besides,  why  should 
the  doctor  have  concealed  such  a  thing  from  him  ? 

The  entry  of  the  on-bashi  into  the  cafe  afforded  Marko 
an  opportunity  for  further  enhghtenment.  He  saw  that  the 
doctor  was  the  victim  of  some  strange  blunder  on  the  part 
of  the  police,  as  also  that  Kralich  had  escaped  from  their 
grasp;  this  latter  thought  gave  him  much  satisfaction.  He 
turned  on  to  the  on-bashi :  "  1  will  stake  my  life  on  the 
doctor's  innocence,"  said  he. 

'*  God  grant  it,"  answered  the  on-bashi ;  "  but  I  don't 
see  how  he's  to  prove  it." 

"  He'll  prove  it,  only  they  may  ruin  him  first.  At  what 
time  does  the  Bey  come  to  the  Konack  ?  " 

"  In  about  an  hour  ;  he  comes  early." 

"  You  must  release  the  doctor  ;  I'll  go  bail  for  him  :  I'll 
stake  my  house  and  my  children  on  it,  that  he's  innocent." 

The  on-bashi  cast  a  glance  of  surprise  at  him. 

' '  There's  no  need  of  bail — they've  sent  him  away 
already." 

"  When  ?     Where  to  ?  "  cried  Marko. 

*'  We  sent  him  off  to  K.  last  night,  with  a  police  escort." 

Marco  was  unable  to  conceal  his  disappointment. 

The  on-bashi,  who  had  a  regard  for  him,  said  in  a  con- 
fidential tone  :  "  Marko  Chorbaji,  if  I  were  you  I  wouldn't 
interfere  in  an  ugly  business  like  this.  What  is  it  to  do 
with  you  ?  These  are  times  when  every  one  keeps  himself 
to  himself." 

The  on-bashi  drank  his  coffee,  and  said  : 

"  I  must  go  in  half  an  hour,  to  take  a  letter  from  the  Bey 
inclosing  the  doctor's  revolutionary  papers.  If  you  want  to 
know,  they're  the  only  proofs  against  him,  and  quite  enough 
too.  As  for  the  other  thing — Osman's  wound — that's  all 
a  mistake,  he  didn't  fire  at  him — it  was  one  of  us — it's  a 
wound  from  a  rifle-bullet.  Well,  the  bigwigs  will  see  to  it. 
Ganko,  give  me  an  old  bit  of  paper  to  wrap  the  letter  in  or 
it'll  get  dirty." 

So  saying,  he  took  from  his  sash  a  large  envelope  with  a 
red  seal  which  he  wrapped  up  in  the  paper  the  cafe-keeper 
gave  him.  Then,  lighting  another  cigarette,  the  on-bashi 
saluted  Marko  and  went  out. 

Marko  remained  for  a  moment  deep  in  thought.  The 
cafe-keeper  (who  was  at  the  same  time  the  town-barber)  was 


THE  LETTER  33 

already  lathering  Petko  Buzzouniak's  head.    Marko  rose 
and  went  out. 

"  Good-day  to  you,  Marko.  You're  off  very  early,"  cried  th^^^ 
barber,  dashing  the  lather  about  in  soapy  waves  on  his  vic- 
tim's head, ' '  so  you  want  to  go  bail  for  the  doctor !  As  a  man 
sows,  so  shall  he  reap.     Why  don't  they  come  and  haul  off 
Petko  Buzzouniak  to  prison  ?  Eh,  Petko,  what  do  you  say  ?  " 

An  inarticulate  murmur  was  heard  from  among  the  lather, 
but  it  was  unintelligible.  In  a  few  minutes  the  barber  had 
shampooed  his  customer,  wiped  his  head  and  face  dry  with 
a  towel  of  very  doubtful  cleanhness,  handed  him  the  looking- 
glass,  and  said,  "  There  you  are." 

As  he  was  ushering  his  customer  out,  Ganko  met  Marko 
on  the  threshold. 

"I  forgot  my  tobacco-pouch,"  said  he,  and  went 
hurriedly  to  the  seat  where  he  had  left  it. 

Buzzouniak  laid  his  piastre  on  the  looking-glass,  and  went 
out.     Ganko  turned  back. 

"  By-the-by,  Ganko,  tell  me  what  my  account  is.  I 
settle  up  at  the  end  of  the  month,  you  know,"  said  Marko. 

Ganko  pointed  to  the  ceiling  which  was  covered  with 
hieroglyphics  in  chalk.  "  There's  the  ledger,"  said  he  ; 
"  you've  only  to  reckon  it  up  and  pay." 

"  I  don't  see  my  name  there." 

"  That's  the  way  I  put  'em  down,  a  la  franga."  * 

"  You'll  soon  have  the  brokers  in,  if  that's  the  way  you 
keep  your  accounts,  Ganko,"  said  Marko,  chafiingly,  as  he 
took  out  his  purse.  "  Well,  if  that  fellow  hasn't  left  his 
letter  behind  !  "  he  added,  pointing  to  the  shelf. 

"  My  eyes  !  the  on-bashi's  letter,"  cried  Ganko,  surprised, 
and  casting  a  glance  of  interrogation  at  Marko,  as  if  to  ask 
what  was  to  be  done. 

' '  Send  it  him — send  it  him  at  once,"  said  Marko,  hastily 
— "  there  you  are,  twenty-eight  piastres  and  thirty  paras — 
you've  taken  my  last  farthing,  you  rogue."  Ganko  went 
out,  dumbfounded,  thinking  "  what  a  curious  man  Marko  is. 
He's  ready  to  go  bail  with  his  house  for  that  bear -trainer 
and  yet  he  won't  throw  the  letter  in  the  fire — it  might  have 
been  done  in  a  minute  and  no  one  the  wiser." 

Meanwhile  new  customers  were  arriving,  and  clouds  of 
smoke  soon  filled  the  cafe,  whilst  conversation  was  busy 
with  the  doctor's  mishap. 

*  I.e.,  in  "  Frank  "  or  European  fashion. 

c 


34  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

CHAPTER  VII :    HEROISM 

The  sun  was  already  high  in  the  heavens,  and  its  rays 
lighted  up  the  green  vines  at  the  foot  of  the  courtyard  of 
the  monastery.  The  courtyard  was  now  as  bright  and  gay 
as  it  had  been  dark  and  dreary  at  night,  when  every  object 
assumed  a  ghostly  appearance.  The  merry  chirp  of  birds 
filled  it  with  joyous  sounds  :  the  transparent  ripples  of  the 
stream  murmured  pleasantly  on  their  way  down  the  hill ; 
the  leafy  cypresses  and  elms  rustled  softly  to  the  morning 
mountain  breeze.  Everything  was  clear  and  peaceful. 
Even  the  surrounding  verandahs  with  their  dark  cells  had  a 
more  welcome  aspect,  and  rang  with  the  twittering  of  the 
swallows  as  they  flew  in  and  out  of  their  nests. 

In  the  courtyard  by  the  vines  was  a  majestic -looking  old 
man,  with  long  white  beard  reaching  to  his  waist  dressed  in 
a  long  blue  gown.  This  was  Father  Yerote,  an  old  man  of 
eighty-five,  the  relic  of  a  former  century,  almost  a  wreck,  yet 
a  hale  and  honourable  wreck.  He  was  living  out,  quietly 
and  simply,  the  last  years  of  his  protracted  life.  Every 
morning  he  would  walk  there,  breathing  in  the  fresh 
mountain  air,  and  enjoying  like  a  child  the  sun  and  the 
heavens,  towards  which  he  was  already  far  on  the  road. 

Close  by,  against  one  of  the  vine-props,  as  a  contrast  to 
this  relic  of  the  past,  stood  Deacon  Vikenti,  book  in  hand 
(he  was  preparing  for  his  admission  to  a  Russian  seminary). 
His  juvenile  face  beamed  with  youth  and  hope  :  strength 
and  life  shone  in  his  eager  gaze.  He  represented  the  future, 
towards  which  he  looked  with  the  same  confidence  as  did 
the  old  man  towards  eternity. 

It  is  only  the  untroubled  life  of  the  cloister  that  can  give 
this  restful  quiet  to  the  soul. 

On  the  stone  steps  leading  to  the  Church  sat  the  rotund 
Father  Gedeon,  a  deeply  learned  man  :  he  was  gazing  atten- 
tively at  the  peacocks  as  they  walked  about  the  yard  with 
tails  outspread,  fan-like.  He  compared  them  to  the  self- 
satisfied  Pharisee  in  the  Gospel,  and  their  screams  reminded 
him  of  wise  King  Solomon,  who  understood  the  language 
of  birds.  Plunged  in  these  pious  reflections  Father  Gedeon 
was  quietly  awaiting  the  grateful  sound  of  the  summons  to 
breakfast,  as  he  sniffed  the  savoury  odours  proceeding  from 
the  refectory  kitchen  which  announced  the  preparation  of 
the  meal. 


HEROISM  85 

Mouncho's  colleague,  the  cross-eyed  idiot  of  the  monas- 
tery, was  standing  on  the  threshold  in  the  sun.  He  was 
examining  with  an  attention  no  less  profoundly  philoso- 
phical the  domestic  habits  of  the  peacocks — indeed,  to  say 
this  scarcely  gives  the  true  state  of  the  case,  for  the  glance  of 
the  idiot  embraced  not  only  the  peacocks,  but  also  the 
entire  horizon  ;  since  while  one  eye  pointed  due  west,  the 
other  took  in  at  the  same  time  the  east. 

Erect  beside  him,  Mouncho  was  clasping  his  hands,  while 
with  head  upturned  he  anxiously  scanned  the  windows  on 
the  top -story,  for  reasons  known  only  to  himseK. 

If  we  add  the  higoumen,  who  was  out,  and  some  few  lay- 
assistants,  we  have  before  us  the  whole  population  of  the 
monastery. 

Just  then  the  higoumen  trotted  up  on  his  horse,  dis- 
mounted, and  handed  the  reins  to  the  cross-eyed  brother, 
saying  as  he  did  so  to  Vikenti  :  "I  have  come  from  town, 
and  bring  bad  news." 

Thereupon  he  told  them  the  story  of  Sokoloff 's  mishap : 
'  Poor  Sokoloff,  poor  Sokoloff  !  "  he  sighed. 

The  higoumen  Natanael  was  a  tall,  powerful  man,  with  a 
virile  face  and  a  bold,  dashing  manner.  Remove  his 
monk's  garb,  and  little  of  the  monk  remained  in  him.  The 
walls  of  his  cell  were  hung  with  guns  ;  he  was  a  first-rate 
shot,  swore  like  a  trooper,  and  was  as  skilled  in  healing 
wounds  as  he  was  in  dealing  them.  Chance  had  made  him 
the  higoumen  of  a  monastery  instead  of  a  voivode  in  the 
Balkans.  Moreover,  rumour  had  it  that  he  had  once  been 
the  latter,  but  was  now  repentant. 

"  Where  is  Father  Gedeon,"  asked  the  higoumen,  looking 
round. 

''•  Here  am  I,"  answered  Father  Gedeon,  in  a  shrill 
voice,  emerging  from  the  monastery  whither  he  had  gone 
to  see  if  breakfast  would  soon  be  ready. 

"  In  the  kitchen  again.  Father  Gedeon  :  don't  you  know 
that  gluttony  is  a  deadly  sin  ?  "  So  saying,  the  abbot 
enjoined  him  to  fasten  the  saddle-bags  on  the  donkey,  and 
proceed  to  the  village  of  Voinyagovo,  to  inspect  the  hay 
makers  who  were  mowing  the  monastery's  fields. 

Father  Gedeon  was  round,  bloated,  and  puffy  as  a  sheep's 
bladder  when  blown  out.  The  slight  movement  he  had 
made  in  coming  to  the  door  had  brought  the  dew  of  suffering 
to  his  forehead. 


36  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

**  Father  Higoumen,"  he  murmured  in  tones  of  agonised 
entreaty,  clasping  his  hands  before  him,  and  appalled  at  the 
idea  of  a  journey  in  this  sinful  world  ;  "  Father  Higoumen, 
were  it  not  better  to  remove  this  bitter  cup  from  the  lips  of 
your  lowly  brother  ?  " 

"  What  bitter  cup,  man  ?  Do  you  mean  my  sending  you 
to  the  mowers  ?  Why,  you're  going  to  ride  the  donkey, 
and  as  for  the  labour,  all  you've  to  do  is  to  hold  the  reins 
with  one  hand  and  give  your  benediction  with  the  other," 
said  the  higoumen,  smiling. 

"  Father  Natanael,  it  isn't  for  the  labour  ;  we  come  into 
the  world  for  a  life  of  labour  and  suffering.  But  the  times 
are  evil." 

' '  Evil  ?     In  May  ?     Why,  the  trip  will  do  you  good." 

*'  The  times,  father,  the  times,"  murmured  Father 
Gedeon.  "  You  see  they  have  taken  the  doctor,  and  may 
send  the  Christian  to  destruction.  The  race  of  Hagar  is 
merciless.  God  forbid,  if  they  accuse  me  of  stirring  up  the 
people  to  revolt,  the  whole  monastery  may  suffer.  The 
peril  is  imminent." 

The  higoumen  burst  out  laughing. 

"  Ha  !  ha  !  ha  !  "he  cried,  in  uncontrollable  mirth,  with 
arms  akimbo,  as  he  looked  at  the  rotund  form  of  Father 
Gedeon.  "  And  do  you  think  the  Turks  will  suspect  you  ! 
Father  Gedeon  a  political  emissary  !  Ha  !  ha  !  is  it  not 
written, '  thou  shalt  make  the  sluggard  to  work,  that  he  may 
learn  wisdom.'  Your  besetting  sin  of  idleness  has  made  me 
laugh  when  I  was  but  little  disposed  to  do  so.  Deacon 
Vikenti  !  Deacon  Vikenti  !  Come  and  listen  to  Father 
Gedeon.  Mouncho,  go  and  call  Vikenti ;  I  want  to  make 
him  laugh." 

In  truth,  the  boisterous  merriment  of  the  higoumen  made 
the  walls  ring  again. 

When  he  heard  the  order,  Mouncho  shook  his  head  still 
more  strangely,  his  eyes  staring  with  terror. 

"  The  Russian  !  "  he  cried,  trembling,  and  pointed  to 
the  staircase  up  which  the  deacon  had  gone.  And  to 
avoid  the  errand,  he  fled  hurriedly  to  the  opposite  side  of 
the  quadrangle. 

"  Russian  !     What  does  he  mean  by  that  ?  " 

"  He  means  the  ghost,  your  reverence,"  said  Father 
Gedeon. 

''•  And  how  long  is  it  since  Mouncho  has  become  such  a 


HEROISM  87 

coward  ?  Why,  he  used  to  Hve  all  alone,  like  an  owl  in 
the  wilderness." 

''  Of  a  truth,  father,  a  spirit  walks  nightly  on  the  veran- 
dah. Last  night  Mouncho  came  to  my  cell  in  a  paroxysm 
of  terror.  He  had  seen  a  ghost  in  white  garments  coming 
out  of  the  cell  with  the  windows.  He  also  told  me  of  other 
things,  from  which  may  the  Lord  deUver  us.  We  must 
sprinKle  the  top  story  with  holy  water." 

Mouncho  had  stopped  some  distance  off,  and  was  staring 
terrified,  at  the  top  story. 

'*  What  can  he  have  seen  ?  Come,  father,  let's  inspect 
the  premises,"  said  the  higoumen,  who  fancied  that  perhaps 
a  thief  might  have  concealed  himseK  there. 

"  The  Lord  forbid,"  said  Gedeon,  crossing  himself.  The 
higoumen  went  upstairs  alone. 

In  truth,  when  the  higoumen  called  the  deacon,  the 
latter  htid  gone  to  Kralich's  cell. 

"  What's  the  news,  father  ?  "asked  the  latter,  seeing  his 
disturbed  countenance. 

"  There's  no  danger,"  said  the  deacon  at  once  reassur- 
ingly, "  but  the  higoumen  has  brought  very  bad  news. 
Last  night  Sokoloff  was  arrested  and  carried  off  to  K." 

"  Who  is  this  Sokoloff  ?  " 

"  He's  a  doctor  in  the  town — a  very  decent  youth.  It 
seems  they  found  revolutionary  books  or  papers  on  him.  I 
know  him  to  be  a  fervent  patriot,"  said  the  deacon,  sorrow- 
fully ;  then,  after  a  moment's  pause,  he  added,  "  When  the 
police  were  pursuing  him  last  night  he  fired  and  wounded  a 
zaptie,  who  had  laid  hold  of  his  overcoat.  Poor  doctor  ! 
I'm  afraid  he's  done  for.  Thank  God,  you  got  off  safe, 
and  nothing  seems  to  have  been  heard  of  you  in 
town." 

As  the  deacon  stopped  talking,  he  observed  with  surprise 
that  Kralich  had  taken  his  head  between  his  hands,  and  was 
pacing  up  and  down  the  room  like  a  madman,  sighing 
deeply.  These  signs  of  a  despair,  as  inexplicable  as  it  was 
sudden,  greatly  astonished  the  deacon. 

"  Why,  what's  the  matter,  man  ?  Thank  God,  you're  all 
right,"  cried  Vikenti. 

Kralich  stopped  in  front  of  him,  with  a  face  distorted  by 
moral  suffering,  and  exclaimed  almost  angrily  : 

"  All  right !  all  right,  am  I  ?  That's  easily  said  !  "  and 
he   struck  his   forehead.     "  What   are   you   thinking   of, 


38  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

Vikenti  ?  Don't  you  understand  1  My  God  !  I  forgot  to 
tell  you  that  the  overcoat  was  mine.  Last  night,  at  the 
outskirts  of  the  town,  some  kind  young  man,  who  showed 
me  Marko's  house — evidently  this  Dr.  Sokoloff — gave  it  to 
me,  seeing  what  a  state  I  was  in,  and  that's  the  coat  I  left 
in  the  zaptie's  hands.  I  took  some  papers  out  of  an  inner 
pocket  and  put  them  in  the  pocket  of  the  coat :  they  were  a 
copy  of  the  Nezavisimost  and  a  proclamation  which  they 
gave  me  in  a  hut  at  Troyan,  where  I  spent  the  night.  That's 
not  enough,  but  they  must  go  and  say  he  fired  at  a  zap  tie, 
when  I  never  touched  the  revolver  !  Ah  !  the  scoundrels  ! 
Now  do  you  see  ?  that  man  has  sacrificed  himself  for  me  ! 
It  is  my  accursed  fate  to  bring  misfortune  on  all  those  who  do 
good  to  me  !  " 

"  It's  a  great  misfortune,"  said  Vikenti,  pityingly ; 
"  especially  since  you  can't  help  him,  as  matters  stand." 

Kralich  turned  on  him  with  a  burning  countenance. 

'*  What  do  you  mean,  I  can't  help  him  ?  Am  I  to  leave 
a  generous  benefactor,  and,  as  you  say,  a  fervent  patriot, 
to  perish  on  my  account  ?  That  would  be  baseness 
indeed  !  " 

The  deacon  looked  at  him  bewildered. 

"  No,  I  shall  rescue  him  from  this  mishap,  even  if  it 
costs  me  my  life  ?  " 

"  How  !  what's  to  be  done  ?  tell  me  :  I  am  ready  to  do 
anything,"  cried  Vikenti. 

'  I  alone  will  save  him  !  " 

"  You  !  " 

"  Yes,  I ;  I'll  rescue  him.  I  am  the  only  one  who  is 
able  and  bound  to  rescue  him,"  cried  Kralich,  excitedly,  as 
he  paced  up  and  down  the  cell,  with  an  expression  of 
utmost  decision  and  courage. 

"  Are  we  to  make  an  assault  on  the  prison  ?  "  asked 
Vikenti,  who  was  lost  in  astonishment  and  half  afraid  lest 
Kralich  had  taken  leave  of  his  senses. 

"  Mr.  KraHch,"  he  continued,  "  how  do  you  mean  to  save 
him  ?  " 

"  What !  don't  you  understand  ?  I  shall  give  myself 
up!" 

"  You — ^give  yourseK  up  ? — ^alone  ?  " 

**  Do  you  think  I  should  entreat  them  to  release  him  ? 
Listen,  Father  Vikenti !  I'm  an  honest  man,  and  I  won't 
owe  my  life  to  the  sufferings  of  others.    I  haven't  come 


AT  CHORBAJI  YORDAN'S  39 

1500  miles  to  commit  an  act  of  baseness.  If  I  can't  sacrifice 
my  life  nobly,  at  least  I  can  do  so  honourably.  Do  you 
understand  ?  Unless  I  give  myself  up  to  the  Turks  this 
very  day,  and  say  '  this  man  is  innocent — I  have  never  had 
any  dealings  with  him — the  coat  was  taken  from  my  back — 
the  papers  are  mine — I'm  the  culprit — I'm  guilty — if  you 
like,  I  fired  at  the  zaptie — do  what  you  please  to  me  ' — 
unless  I  do  this,  Dr.  Sokolofi  is  lost — especially  as  he  was 
unable  or  unwilHng  to  say  where  he  was  ?  Tell  me,  can  I 
do  otherwise  ?  " 

The  deacon  was  silent.  In  his  heart  he  recognised,  as 
an  honest  man,  that  Kralich  was  right.  This  self-sacrifice 
was  imposed  on  him  by  feelings  of  justice  and  humanity, 
and  he  could  not  wait  for  others  to  point  out  to  him  the 
course  he  should  take.  The  man  seemed  to  him  to  become 
greater  and  more  dignified  in  his  eyes.  His  figure  assumed 
that  calm,  noble,  heavenly  brightness  with  which  only  a 
great  and  sudden  flash  of  valour  can  inspire  the  human 
countenance.  Kralich's  earnest,  simple,  and  ringing  words 
echoed  in  his  ears  with  a  soft  and  majestic  sound.  He 
would  have  liked  to  be  in  his  place,  to  say  such  words — 
ay,  and  carry  them  out.     His  eyes  filled  with  tears. 

"  Show  me  the  way  to  K.,"  said  Kralich.  Suddenly  the 
great  bearded  head  of  the  higoumen  appeared  at  the  window; 
they  had  not  heard  his  footsteps  in  the  heat  of  their  discus- 
sion. Kralich  started,  and  glanced  inquiringly  at  the  deacon. 

Vikenti  hurriedly  pointed  to  the  door,  took  the  higoumen 
aside  to  the  corridor,  and  whispered  to  him  long  and 
passionately,  with  excited  gestures,  and  side -glances  at  the 
cell  where  Kralich  was  waiting  impatiently.  When  the  door 
opened  and  Vikenti  and  Natanael  returned,  Kralich  ad- 
vanced towards  the  higoumen  and  sought  to  kiss  his  hand. 

"  No,  no,  I'm  not  worthy  that  you  should  kiss  my  hand," 
cried  the  higoumen,  in  tears  ;  and  placing  both  arms  round 
his  neck,  he  kissed  his  lips  affectionately,  as  a  father  kisses 
a  beloved  and  long-absent  son. 

CHAPTER  VIII :   AT  CHORBAJI  YORDAN'S 

There  was  a  great  family  gathering  that  day  at  Chorbaji 
Yordan's,  given  in  accordance  with  the  old  Bulgarian  cus- 
tom, in  honour  of  a  recent  wedding  in  the  family.  All  his 
relations  and  the  friends  of  the  family  had  been  invited. 


40  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

Yordan  DiamandiefiE  was  now  an  old  man,  somewhat 
feeble,  of  a  morose  and  nervous  disposition  :  he  belonged 
to  that  section  of  the  Bulgarian  bourgeoisie — the  Chorbajis — 
who  have  done  so  much  to  make  the  whole  class  odious. 
His  wealth  went  on  increasing,  his  numerous  family- 
flourished,  and  he  was  universally  feared,  but  no  one  liked 
him.  Certain  old  stories  of  iniquitous  acts  of  oppression 
and  wrong,  in  which  the  poor  had  suffered  and  the  conniv- 
ance of  the  Turks  been  obtained  by  fawning,  flattery,  or 
still  worse  means,  kept  up  his  impopularity,  even  now  that 
he  was  unable  or  unwilling  to  injure  any  one.  He  belonged 
entirely  to  the  past  generation. 

The  only  acts  of  oppression  he  now  permitted  himself 
to  carry  on  were  exercised  at  the  cost  of  the  school- 
teachers— or  of  such  as  refused  to  bow  before  his  will. 
The  wolf  may  change  his  skin,  but  not  his  teeth,  says  the 
proverb. 

In  spite  of  Yordan's  surly  disposition,  the  meal  was  a 
merry  one.  Mother  Ghinka,  his  married  daughter  still 
fairly  good-looking,  loquacious,  quick  at  repartee,  and  very 
lively,  who  did  not  scruple  to  box  the  ears  of  her  thoroughly 
subdued  husband  whenever  necessary,  kept  the  guests  in 
fits  of  laughter  by  the  jests  and  stories  which  her  indefatig- 
able tongue  scattered  hither  and  thither.  Those  who 
enjoyed  her  wit  most  were  the  three  nuns.  One  of  these, 
Sister  Hajji  *  Rovoama,  Yordan's  sister,  who  was  lame, 
malicious,  and  a  thorough  mischief-maker,  was  no  less 
talkative  than  Ghinka,  and  had  many  a  bitter  jest  at  the  ex- 
pense of  absent  friends.  Hajji  Simeon,  the  host's  son-in-law, 
laughed  loudly  with  his  mouth  full ;  Hajji  Pavli,  the  lately 
married  bridegroom,  carried  away  by  his  mirth,  was  eating 
with  the  spoon  of  Alaf  ranga  Mikhalaki,  who,  annoyed  at  this 
inadvertence,  cast  reproving  glances  round  him  Mikhalaki 
bore  the  well-deserved  nickname  of  "  Alaf  ranga,"  because 
thirty  years  ago  he  had  been  the  first  in  the  town  to  wear 
European  trousers  and  stammer  a  few  words  of  French. 
Unfortunately  his  efforts  had  stopped  short  there.  The 
coat  he  wore  to-day  was  of  the  fashion  prevailing  at  the 
time  of  the  Crimean  War,  and  his  slender  French  vocabu- 
lary had  not  received  a  single  addition.     But  his  renown 

*  The  word  "  Hajji "  implies  that  the  person  to  whose  name  it  is 
prefixed,  whether  Christian  or  Mussulman,  has  performed  the  pilgrimage 
to  Jerusalem  or  Mecca  respectively, 


AT  CHORBAJI  YORDAN'S  41 

as  a  man  of  learning,  and  with  it  his  flattering  nick- 
name, had  come  down  to  the  present  day.  Mikhalaki 
fully  realised  his  o^vvn  importance,  and  was  very  proud  of 
it ;  he  was  stiff  in  manner,  spoke  with  a  pompous  air,  and 
would  allow  no  one  to  call  him  simply  Mikhal,  so  as  to 
avoid  being  taken  for  the  policeman,  who  also  rejoiced  in 
that  name.  Indeed,  Mikalaki  was  very  susceptible  -with 
respect  to  names.  He  had  had  a  feud  of  many  years'  stand- 
ing with  his  neighbour,  Ivancho  Yotata,  because  the  latter 
had  twice  in  one  evening  mispronounced  his  name,  in  his 
usual  blundering  fashion. 

Opposite  Alafranga  sat  Damiancho  Grigoroff,  a  man  of 
fifty  years  of  age,  of  moderate  height,  thin,  dark,  with  a 
look  of  intense  cunning,  and  thin  mobile  lips  of  ironical 
expression,  but  with  an  extremely  serious  countenance  ;  he 
also  had  a  reputation  for  wisdom,  but  of  an  entirely  different 
kind  from  Alafranga 's.  He  was  a  loquacious  and  fluent 
story-teller,  of  inexhaustible  resource,  as  deep  as  a  well,  and 
with  a  very  powerful  imagination,  rich  as  the  treasury  of 
Halim  Aga  :  with  him  a  drop  became  an  ocean,  and  a 
molehill  a  mountain — indeed,  he  would  often  begin  by 
inventing  the  molehill.  The  most  remarkable  feature  was 
that  he  beHeved  his  own  stories — the  surest  means  of  making 
others  believe  them.  In  other  respects,  Damiancho  was 
one  of  the  principal  tradesmen,  a  patriot,  and  a  man  of  sage 
counsels. 

Mother  Ghinka's  husband  was  eating  his  dinner  in  a 
subdued  manner,  for  he  knew  that  if  he  ventured  to  say 
anything  his  wife  would  at  once  transfix  him  with  a  look 
of  piercing  severity,  so  that  he  dared  not  open  his  mouth 
before  her.  He  was  a  weak  man  of  no  character,  and  was 
of  so  little  account  that  instead  of  his  wife  being  called 
Ghinka  Ghenkova,  after  him,  he  was  known  as  Ghinka's 
Ghenko.  By  his  side  Necho  Pironkoff,  the  member  of 
Council,  sat  whispering  with  an  air  of  importance  to  Kiriak 
Stefchoff,  who  was  dfssed  in  the  height  of  fashion,  and 
nodded  now  and  then  absently  in  response  without  noticing 
what  his  neighbour  was  saying,  his  attention  being  taken  up 
by  Yordan's  daughter,  Lalka,  on  whom  he  kept  casting 
admiring  glances.  But  his  inattention  did  not  go  un- 
punished, for  Necho  raised  his  glass  to  clink  it  against  his, 
and  meeting  no  response  the  wine  was  spilt  over  Stefchoff 's 
white  trousers. 


42  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

This  youth,  whom  we  have  already  met  at  the  Bey's,  and 
who  will  reappear  in  the  course  of  our  story,  belonged  by 
birth  and  breeding  to  the  Chorbaji  class  :  he  was  the  son  of 
a  man  of  the  same  stamp  as  Yordan  Diamandieff .  He  was 
young,  but  his  ideas  were  old-fashioned  :  the  new  and 
absorbing  current  of  liberal  thought  had  left  him  untouched. 
It  was,  perhaps,  for  this  reason  that  the  Turks  viewed  him 
with  favour — this,  however,  made  him  unpopular  with  the 
younger  men,  who  considered  him  as  a  Turkish  spy.  And 
his  unpopularity  was  heightened  by  his  haughty,  spiteful 
character,  and  his  deceitful  and  cowardly  nature.  In  spite 
of  this,  however — or,  perhaps,  on  that  very  account — Chor- 
baji Yordan  had  a  weakness  for  Stefchoff  which  he  did  not 
seek  to  conceal.  Hence  rumour  had,  rightly  or  wrongly, 
fixed  on  him  as  Yordan's  future  son-in-law. 

Dinner  was  over  and  coffee  was  served  by  a  tall,  slender, 
dark-eyed  girl,  dressed  in  black,  to  whom  no  one  paid  any 
attention.  The  conversation  went  on  briskly,  for  Ghinka 
was  anxious  to  amuse  the  guests  with  her  inexhaustible 
verbosity  and  wit.  Soon  the  topic  of  the  day — Sokoloff's 
arrest — came  on  the  tapis.  This  subject  at  once  attracted 
the  general  notice,  and  gave  a  new  and  agreeable  impulse 
to  the  after-dinner  chat. 

"  I  wonder  what's  become  of  the  doctoress  ?  "  sneered 
Mother  Seraphina. 

"  What  doctoress  ?  "  asked  the  bride. 

"  Why,  Cleopatra,  of  course." 

*'  We  must  go  and  call  on  her,  and  get  her  to  write  to  him 
— ^he  must  be  fretting  after  her,"  said  Mother  Ghinka. 

*' Mikhalaki,"  asked  the  bride,  turning  to  Alafranga, 
"  what  kind  of  a  word  is  Cleopatra  ?  Mother  Kouna  can't 
pronounce  it  at  all." 

Mkhalaki  frowned,  remained  for  a  moment  deep  in 
thought,  and  then  delivered  himself  pompously  :  "  Cleo- 
patra is  a  Hellenic — that  is  to  say,  Greek  word.  It  comes 
from  i:\aLU),  I  weep  for,  and  ...  I  weep  for  ..." 

"  I  weep  for  the  doctor,"  laughed  Hajji  Simeon,  fumbling 
in  his  pockets. 

*'  Well,  well,  what  signifies  a  name  ?  "  said  Sister  Hajji 
Kovoama  ;  "  there's  some  one  else,  though,  weeping  for  the 
doctor  as  well."  So  saying,  she  bent  towards  Mrs.  Hajji 
Simeon  and  another  lady,  and  whispered  something.  The 
three  laughed  sUly.    The  laughter  spread  to  all  the  guests. 


AT  CHORBAJI  YORDAN'S  43 

"  What  do  you  mean,  Ghinka  ?  The  Bey's  wife  ?  "  asked 
Macho vitsa,  astounded. 

"  Mind  your  own  business — the  woK  eats  the  heifer  in  the 
stall  sometimes,"  said  Mother  Ghinka. 

And  they  all  laughed  at  this  sally. 

"  Kiriak,  what  were  the  papers  they  found  on  Sokoloff  ?  " 
asked  Yordan,  who  did  not  understand  what  they  were  all 
laughing  at. 

"  Rank  treason  from  beginning  to  end.  The  Bey  sent 
for  me  at  midnight  to  translate  them  for  him.  Such  wild, 
insensate  rubbish,  as  only  lunatics  can  invent.  Another  of 
these  proclamations  from  the  Bucharest  Committee,  calling 
on  us  to  rise  and  put  the  country  to  fire  and  sword,  so  that 
it  may  be  freed." 

"  Get  yourselves  massacred,  all  of  you,  so  that  we  may  be 
freed,"  sneered  Necho  Pironkoff. 

"  These  scoundrels  are  ready  enough  to  put  the  place  to 
fire  and  sword — why  not  ?  It's  not  their  property  they 
want  to  destroy.  They  haven't  a  foot  of  ground,  or  a  stick, 
in  the  place.  It's  easy  for  them  to  talk — a  set  of  ruffians  !  " 
said  Chorbaji  Yordan,  angrily. 

"  Thieves,  the  whole  lot  of  them  !  "  muttered  Hajji 
Simeon. 

Damiancho  Grigoroff,  who  had  been  impatiently  awaiting 
his  opportunity  for  introducing  one  of  his  stories,  caught  at 
Simeon's  last  words,  and  began  : 

"  You  say  they're  thieves,  Hajji :  that  reminds  me  of 
a  story — but  there  are  thieves  and  thieves.  I  was  once 
going  to  Ishtip  in  Macedonia — it  was  in  1863,  in  this  very 
month  of  May,  on  the  22nd,  at  three  o'clock,  after  sunset  on 
a  Saturday,  and  a  cloudy  night."  With  which  Damiancho 
proceeded  to  relate  an  interminable  story  of  an  encounter 
with  brigands,  in  which  there  figured  the  Ishtip  innkeeper, 
two  Pashas,  a  Greek  captain,  and  the  sister  of  Prince  Couza 
of  Wallachia. 

Everybody  listened  with  the  utmost  attention,  if  not  with 
perfect  faith,  to  the  absorbing  story  told  by  Damiancho, 
while  they  sipped  their  coffee  with  much  satisfaction. 

"  Dear,  dear — ^they  talk  of  fire  and  sword — they'll  be 
burning  our  convent  down  next,"  said  Sister  Serafima. 

"  May  the  fire  of  heaven  consume  them,"  murmured  Sister 
Hajji  Rovoama. 

"  Just  think  of  it,"  said  Stefchoff,  "  the  very  dissemination 


44  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

of  such  stuff  is  high  treason.  It's  that  which  perverts  the 
minds  of  the  youngsters,  and  either  makes  idle  dreamers  of 
them  or  else  brings  them  to  the  gallows  !  Look  at  Sokoloff 
— there's  a  sad  case  !  " 

"  Ay — a  sad  case  !  "  acquiesced  Hajji  Simeon. 

Mikhalaki  Alafranga  added  : 

"  Only  yesterday  I  had  a  conversation  with  the  doctor, 
and  it  was  easy  to  see  what  his  ideas  are.     He  was  regretting 
that  we  hadn't  got  a  Lioubobratich  !  "  * 
-    "  What  did  you  answer  ?  " 

"I  answered  that  there  might  be  no  Lioubobratiches,  but 
that  gallows  were  plentiful  enough." 

*'  And  a  very  good  answer  too,"  said  Yordan. 

"  Whoever  are  them  Lioubobratiches  ?  "  asked  the  in- 
quisitive bride. 

Ghenko  Ghinkin,  who  was  a  regular  reader  of  the  Pmvo 
and  well-posted  in  politics,  was  just  going  to  answer,  when 
he  was  quelled  by  a  glance  from  his  wife,  who  replied  : 

''  He's  the  leader  of  the  rebels  in  Herzegovina,  Dona  dear. 
Ah  !  if  we  had  a  man  like  him,  I'd  volunteer  to  be  his 
standard-bearer  myself — and  then  we'd  go  and  cut 
cabbages  !  "  f 

*'  Ah  !  if  we  had  a  man  like  him — that  would  be  another 
matter  altogether — I'd  join  under  his  command  too,"  said 
Hajji  Simeon. 

Yordan  cast  a  stem  glance  at  them.  "  What's  that  you're 
saying  ?  such  things  are  not  even  to  be  jested  about.  As 
for  you,  Hajji,  you're  talking  nonsense."  Then  turning  to 
Alafranga,  "  What  will  become  of  the  doctor  ?  " 

"  The  law,"  answered  Stefchoff,  with  a  look  of  triumph, 
"  punishes  an  assault  on  a  servant  of  the  State  by  death,  or 
Diarbekir  for  life." 

"  Serve  him  right,"  grunted  Hajji  Rovoama  ;  "  what 
harm  has  the  convent  done  to  him  that  he  should  want  to 
set  fire  to  it  ?  " 

*'  Well,  he's  brought  it  on  himself,"  said  Necho,  the 
member.  "  Last  night's  thunderstorm  struck  some  one, 
anyhow." 

"  Talking  of  thunderstorms  reminds  me  that  about  the 

*  Lioubobratich  was  the  heroic  leader  of  the  Herzegovinian  revolt 
of  1875. 

t  An  allusion  to  the  green  turbans  worn  by  Turks  claiming  descent 
from  Mohammed. 


AT  CHORBAJI  YORDAN'S  45 

time  of  the  Crimean  War,  Ivan  Boshnakoff  and  I  were  on 
our  way  to  Bosnia.  I  can  call  it  to  mind  as  if  it  was  yester- 
day :  it  wanted  only  a  day  or  two  to  the  feast  of  St.  Nikola. 
We  were  snowed  up  at  Pirot,  when  there  was  the  most 
tremendous  thunderstorm  I  ever  saw."  And  Grigoroff 
began  to  explain  how  the  bolts  had  fallen  round  them,  set 
fire  to  a  walnut  tree,  killed  fifty  sheep,  and  cut  off  his  horse's 
tail,  which  he  had  to  sell  afterwards  at  a  very  low  figure  in 
consequence. 

Grigoroff  told  his  story  with  such  sincerity  and  eloquence 
that  his  audience  listened  with  unflagging  attention  to  the 
very  end.  Stefchoif  and  Necho,  the  member,  smiled  at 
one  another.  Mikhalaki  sat  stiff  and  pompous  as  ever,  and 
Hajji  Simeon  was  struck  dumb  by  the  extraordinary  fierce- 
ness of  Damiancho's  thunderstorm  in  mid-winter. 

While  Damiancho  was  still  busy  with  his  story,  Mother 
Ghinka  began  looking  round  for  Lalka.  "  Rada,  what  has 
become  of  Lalka  ?  Go  and  call  her  at  once,"  said  Hajji 
Rovoama  in  an  authoritative  tone  to  the  young  girl  in 
black. 

Lalka,  on  hearing  Stefchoff's  words  as  to  the  probable 
fate  of  the  doctor,  spoken  with  such  ferocious  calmness,  had 
quietly  withdrawn  to  her  own  room  :  there  she  had  flung 
herself  on  the  divan,  and  lay  sobbing  piteously.  A  flood  of 
tears,  long  pent  up,  poured  from  her  eyes.  As  she  lay,  the 
poor  girl  shook  with  the  violence  of  her  sobs  and  was  power- 
less to  restrain  herself.  Her  face  reflected  her  passionate 
grief  and  the  torture  she  was  undergoing.  Her  whole  soul 
revolted  at  the  cruelty  with  which  these  people  gloated  over 
the  doctor's  misfortune.  "  My  God — my  God — have  they 
no  pity  ?  "  she  thought. 

But  tears  can  soften  even  the  most  desperate  sorrow  ;  and 
the  doctor's  fate  being  yet  unknown,  there  was  at  least  still 
ground  for  hope. 

Lalka  rose,  dried  her  pretty  pale  face,  and  sat  by  the 
open  window  for  the  fresh  air  to  remove  the  traces  of  her 
tears.  She  looked  out  listlessly  on  the  unheeding  passers-by 
in  the  street,  but  all  was  a  blank  to  her.  For  her  this 
cruel  world  did  not  exist :  she  wished  to  see  only  one 
face,  to  hear  only  one  voice — they  were  all  the  world  to 
her. 

Suddenly  the  rapid  trot  of  a  horse  attracted  her  attention. 
She  looked  up  and  could  not  believe  her  eyes.    There  was 


46  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

Doctor  Sokoloff  galloping  gaily  back  on  a  white  horse.  He 
bowed  politely  to  her  as  he  passed  under  her  window.  In 
her  delight,  she  never  thought  of  answering  his  bow,  but 
rushed,  as  if  impelled  by  an  irresistible  force,  into  the  guest- 
chamber,  and  cried  joyfully  : 

"  Doctor  Sokoloff  is  back  again  !  " 

A  feeling  of  astonishment  and  displeasure  was  depicted 
on  the  faces  of  most  of  those  present.  Hajji  Rovoama 
clenched  her  teeth  viciously,  and  Stefchoff  grew  pale,  as  he 
said  with  an  air  of  indifference  : 

"  They've  probably  remanded  him  for  further  inquiry. 
He  won't  escape  Diarbekir,  or  else  the  gallows  so  easily." 
At  that  moment  he  encountered  the  contemptuous  glance 
of  Rada,  which  wounded  him  so  deeply  that  his  face  flamed 
with  mortification  and  anger. 

"  No,  no,  Kiriak.  I  hope  the  poor  fellow  will  get  off, 
when  I  think  how  young  he  is,"  said  Ghinka,  feelingly. 

Her  previous  jests  at  the  doctor  had  been  from  the  lips 
merely  ;  but  her  heart  was  sound.  The  bright  spark  of 
humanity  can  always  be  struck  from  the  heart  by  the  blows 
of  suffering,  if  only  it  be  there  to  begin  with. 

To  Hajji  Simeon's  honour,  also,  be  it  said,  that  he  was 
equally  delighted  at  the  doctor's  escape,  but  dared  not  say 
so  before  Yordan. 


CHAPTER  IX :    EXPLANATIONS 

The  doctor  was  no  sooner  at  home  than  he  went  out 
again,  passed  rapidly  by  Ganko's  cafe,  where  many  greeted 
him  with  a  "  Glad  to  see  you  back,  doctor  " — the  heartiest 
welcome  being  Ganko's — and  proceeded  straight  to  Marko's 
house.  On  his  way  he  espied  Stefchoff  on  the  other  side 
of  the  road,  coming  out  of  Yordan's  house. 

"  My  best  respects,  Terjuman  *  Effendi,"  cried  the  doctor 
with  a  contemptuous  smile. 

Marko,  who  had  finished  dinner,  was  taking  his  coffee  on 
the  bench  beneath  the  ivy. 

He  was  overjoyed  at  seeing  the  doctor.  After  various 
greetings,  Sokoloff  said  :  "  Listen,  Marko,  while  I  tell  you 
something  that  will  make  you  laugh." 

"  How  did  it  all  go,  my  lad  ?  " 

"  That's  what  I  can't  make  out  myself.  It  seems  to  me 
*  Dragoman,  or  Interpreter. 


EXPLANATIONS  47 

like  a  fairy  tale — I  can't  believe  it  all.  Here  am  I  arrested 
at  night,  the  moment  I  had  got  home  after  leaving  you, 
and  taken  off  to  the  Konak.  You've  heard  all  about  my 
examination  and  the  charges  they  brought  against  me.  Who 
would  have  thought  my  poor  old  coat  would  raise  such  a 
bother.  Well,  I  was  locked  up.  An  hour  afterwards,  in 
come  two  zapties.     '  Doctor,  up  you  get  !  '     '  What  for  ?  ' 

'  You're  to  be  taken  to  K ;    it's  the  Bey's  orders.' 

'  Very  well.'     So  we  start,  one  zap  tie  in  front  of  me,  another 

behind,  with  loaded  rifles.     We  got  to  K at  dawn. 

There  they  locked  me  up  again,  as  it  was  too  early  for  the 
Court  to  sit.  Four  mortal  hours  I  waited  in  prison — they 
seemed  to  me  like  four  years.  Finally  I  was  taken  before 
the  Court.  There  were  several  Members  of  the  Council  and 
other  notables,  and  they  read  out  a  protocol  of  some  kind, 
of  which  I  didn't  understand  one  single  word.  More  silly 
questions  about  my  unfortunate  coat,  which  was  lying  on  a 
green  table  and  seemed  to  be  eyeing  me  piteously.  The 
judge  opened  a  letter — evidently  from  our  Bey — took  some 
papers  out  of  it,  and  asked  me,  '  Are  these  your  papers  ?  ' 
'  I  know  nothing  about  them . '  '  Then  how  did  they  get  into 
your  pocket  ?  '  '  They  were  not  put  there  by  me.'  He  went 
on  reading  the  letter.  The  Bulgarian  member,  Tinko  Balta 
Oghlou,  takes  up  the  newspaper  and  examines  it.  '  Beg 
pardon,  your  worship,'  says  he  to  the  judge  ;  '  there's 
nothing  wrong  in  this  newspaper,  it's  printed  at  Constanti- 
nople.' And  he  cast  a  smile  at  me  as  he  said  it.  I  couldn't 
understand  what  he  meant,  and  stood  like  a  log  of  wood. 
The  Kadi  asks,  '  Isn't  that  the  newspaper  issued  by  the 
Revolutionary  Committee  in  Roumania  ?  '  '  No,  your 
worship,'  answers  Balta  Oghlou  ;  '  this  paper  doesn't  treat 
of  politics — it's  a  religious  *  paper,  published  by  the  Protes- 
tant missionaries.'  I  couldn't  trust  my  own  eyes  !  It  was 
the  Zornitsa.  Tinko  Balta  Oghlou  takes  the  proclamation, 
glances  at  it,  looks  at  me,  and  smiles  again.  '  There's 
nothing  seditious  in  this  either,  your  worship  ;  it's  a  pros- 
pectus !  ' — and  he  began  to  read  aloud  :  '  Try  Doctor  Ivan 
Bogoroff's  patent  medicines.'  The  Kadi  looked  at  him  in 
astonishment ;  every  one  began  to  laugh ;  even  the  Kadi 
smiled  ;  as  for  me  I  roared — who  could  have  helped 
laughing  ?     How  in  the  world  did  this  miraculous  transfor- 

*  The  Zornitsa,  the  Bulgarian  organ  of  the  American  Missionaries, 
published  at  Constantinople  since  1858. 


48  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

mation  takes  place  ?  That's  more  than  I  can  tell.  Any- 
how after  a  short  discussion  with  the  Court  the  Kadi  turned 
to  me  and  said,  *  Doctor,  there's  some  mistake.  I  am 
sorry  you've  been  put  to  inconvenience  '  (he  calls  several 
hours  spent  in  prison  and  being  dragged  at  night  from 
one  Konak  to  another  an  inconvenience  !)  ;  'if  you  can 
find  bail  I'll  let  you  go  at  once.'  There  I  stood  utterly 
bewildered." 

"  But  how  about  the  wounded  zap  tie  ?  " 

"  They  didn't  say  a  word  about  him.  As  far  as  I  can 
make  out  our  Bey,  either  by  himself  or  at  some  one  else's 
suggestion,  has  found  out  there  was  some  mistake,  and 
must  have  put  in  his  letter  that  he  didn't  consider  I  was 
guilty  of  that.  Perhaps  the  zaptie  himself  admitted  he  was 
lying." 

Marko  beamed  with  satisfaction.  He  thought  that  old 
Manola's  son  really  had  fired,  and  was  anxious  about  the 
consequences. 

"  Well,  thank  God,  you're  free  now." 

"  Yes,  as  you  see.  But  wait  a  bit — there's  something 
yet  stranger  to  come,"  said  the  doctor,  looking  carefully 
round  to  assure  himself  that  none  of  the  family  were  within 
hearing.  '  Chorbaji  Nikolcho  lent  me  his  horse  to  come 
home  with  ;  he  also  went  bail  for  me.  Well,  as  I  was  coming 
out  of  the  town,  just  by  the  Jewish  cemetery,  I  noticed  two 
people  coming  towards  me  from  the  Balkan.  One  of  them 
was  Deacon  Vikenti,  and  he  called  out  to  me  to  stop. 
*  Where  are  you  bound  for,  doctor  ?  '  he  cried,  surprised  at 
seeing  me  at  Hberty .  '  I'm  going  home,'  I  said  ;  '  there  was 
nothing  the  matter.'  You  should  have  seen  him  open  his 
eyes  !  I  told  him  the  whole  story.  Suddenly  he  throws  his 
arms  round  my  neck,  and  begins  to  kiss  and  hug  me.  '  Why, 
what's  all  this,  deacon  ?  '  says  I.  '  I  must  introduce 
you  to — to  Mr.  Boicho  Ognianoff,'  says  he,  taking  me  to 
his  companion.  I  looked  at  him.  What  do  you  think  ? 
It  was  the  man  to  whom  I  had  given  my  coat  the  night 
before  !  " 

"  What — old  Manola's  son  ?  "  cried  Marko  involuntarily. 

*'  Why — do  you  know  him  too  ?  "  asked  the  doctor 
astounded. 

Marko  shrank  back.     "  Go  on — we'll  see,"  said  he. 

"  Well,  we  shook  hands  and  made  friends.  He  thanked 
me  for  my  coat  and  begged  my  pardon  most  humbly. 


EXPLANATIONS  49 

*  Don't  mention  it,  Mr.  Ognianoff,'  I  said,  '  I  never  like  to 
talk  about  any  little  thing  I  may  do  for  anybody.  But 
where  are  you  going  to,  if  I  may  ask  ?  '  '  Mr.  Ognianoff 
was  going  to  look  for  you,'  answered  Vikenti.     '  For  me  ?  ' 

*  Yes,  he  wanted  to  rescue  you  ! '  'To  rescue  me  ?  '  '  Yes,' 
by  giving  himself  up  to  the  authorities  and  confessing  that 
he  alone  was  guilty.'  '  Do  you  mean  to  say  that  that's  why 
you  came  here  ?  Ah,  Mr.  Ognianoff,  what  were  you 
intending  to  do  ?  '  I  asked,  almost  angrily.  '  My  duty,'  he 
replied  simply.  Well,  I  couldn't  help  it.  I  burst  out  crying 
and  put  my  arms  round  his  neck,  as  if  he  had  been  my 
brother,  there,  in  the  middle  of  the  road.  There's  a  noble 
nature  for  you,  Marko — there's  real  chivalry.  That's  the 
kind  of  man  Bulgaria  requires." 

Marko  made  no  reply.  Two  tears  flowed  slowly  down 
his  cheeks.     He  was  proud  for  old  Manola's  sake. 

The  doctor  remained  silent  a  moment,  then  went  on 
again.  "  We  separated — they  struck  back  across  the  fields, 
and  I  came  straight  on  ;  but  I  am  still  upset  by  the  meeting, 
and  especially  by  the  changing  of  the  papers.  I  tell  you  I 
saw  with  my  own  eyes  the  Nezavisimost,  and  the  proclama- 
tion. How  can  they  turn  into  the  Zornitsa  and  Bogoroff's 
prospectus  ?  Who  changed  them  ?  Was  it  a  mistake  of 
the  Bey's  ?  I've  been  puzzling  over  it  for  hours.  What 
do  you  think  of  it,  Marko  ?  " 

And  the  doctor  clasped  his  hands  and  awaited  the  reply. 

Marko  puffed  at  his  chibouk  thoughtfully,  and  then  said, 
with  an  uncontrollable  smile  on  his  lips  : 

''  Don't  you  understand  that  some  friend  must  have 
done  it  ?  How  can  it  be  a  mistake  ?  Do  you  suppose  the 
Zornitsa  and  Bogoroff's  advertisements  are  likely  to  be 
found  at  the  Bey's  ?  " 

"  But  who  is  the  unknown  benefactor  who  has  saved  me 
from  peril,  and  Ognianoff  from  certain  death  ?  Help  me 
to  find  him — I  must  thank  him — I  must  kiss  his  hands  and 
his  feet." 

Marko  turned  to  the  doctor,  and  said  to  him,  in  a  low 
tone  : 

"  Doctor — listen.  You  must  never  breathe  a  word  of 
what  I  am  going  to  tell  you  as  long  as  you  live." 

"  I  give  you  my  word  of  honour." 

"  It  was  I  who  changed  the  papers." 

"  You,  Marko,"  exclaimed  the  doctor,  with  a  start. 

D 


50  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  Sit  down,  and  listen  quietly.  This  morning,  very  early, 
I  went  to  Ganko's  cafe,  and  it  was  from  him  that  I  heard 
you  were  arrested  :  this  astonished  and  grieved  me  very 
much.     As  luck  would  have  it,  in  came  the  on-bashi  and 

told  me  you  had  been  sent  during  the  night  to  K ,  and 

that  he  was  just  going  there  too  with  the  Bey's  letter  in 
which  the  fatal  papers  were  enclosed.  I  didn't  know  what 
was  to  be  done.  The  on-bashi  stayed  for  some  time,  and 
then  went  out.  Well,  to  my  surprise,  I  noticed  he'd  left  his 
letter  behind .  Ganko  was  busy  shaving  some  one .  It  came 
into  my  head  to  take  the  letter  and  destroy  it,  but  that 
wouldn't  have  helped  you  much — the  suspicion  would  always 
have  remained.  What  was  to  be  done  ?  There  was  no 
time  to  think.  Well,  something  occurred  to  me  which  I'd 
never  even  thought  of  all  my  life.  See  here,  doctor  ;  I've 
grown  grey  in  business,  but  I  never  yet  opened  a  letter 
belonging  to  any  one  else  before  :  I've  always  considered  it 
the  most  dishonourable  thing  a  man  can  do.  God  forgive 
me,  but  I  did  it  this  morning,  for  the  first  and  last  time.  I 
rushed  home,  locked  mysefi  in  the  office,  unfastened  the 
red  seal  on  the  letter  carefully,  and  put  in  the  first  two 
papers  that  came  to  hand — you  know  the  Turks  are  not 
over  sharp  in  these  matters.  Then  I  brought  back  the 
letter  and  left  it  in  the  place  where  I'd  found  it,  without  the 
cafe-keeper  noticing  me.  Thank  God,  the  thing  came  off 
all  right — my  conscience  is  easier  now." 

The  doctor  listened,  gasping,  and  then  said  with  emotion  : 

*'  Marko,  my  gratitude  to  you  is  eternal.  What  you  call 
dishonourable  is  noble — it's  glorious.  You  have  saved  two 
lives  from  destruction  at  the  risk  of  your  own.  There  are 
few  fathers  who  would  do  as  much  for  their  children." 

The  doctor's  emotion  would  not  let  him  continue. 

Marko  added  :  "  Last  night  old  Manola's  son  did  come 
to  see  me,  but  he  climbed  over  the  wall,  and  that  made  aU 
the  noise  and  brought  the  police." 

''  What,  Boicho  Ognianoff  ?  " 

*'  Is  that  what  you  call  him  ?  Yes,  yes,  that's  the  man. 
His  father's  a  great  friend  of  mine ;  and  he,  poor  fellow, 
not  knowing  any  one  else,  came  to  me  for  shelter  :  it  was  you 
who  directed  him  here.  I  didn't  want  to  tell  you  this  before 
Ivancho  ;  but  he  ran  away  the  moment  the  police  came." 

?  Where  was  he  coming  from  ? "  asked  the  doctor  com- 
pletely overcome  by  these  successive  revelations. 


THE  NUNNERY  51 

"  Didn't  he  teU  you  ?     From  Diarbekir." 

"  From  Diarbekir  !  " 

"  Not  so  loud — and  where  is  he  now  ?  " 

"  He's  at  the  monastery,  where  the  deacon  has  under- 
taken to  keep  him  hidden.  I'm  to  go  and  see  him  there. 
Will  you  let  me  tell  him — only  him — what  you've  just  told 
me  ?  He  ought  to  know  who  it  is  to  whom  he  owes  his  life, 
for  he  would  certainly  have  given  himself  up  if  they  hadn't 
released  me." 

"  No,  no  ;  you've  given  me  your  word  ;  you're  never  to 
reveal  it — on  the  contrary,  try  to  forget  it.  I  only  told  you 
as  a  kind  of  confession,  to  reheve  my  own  conscience.  As 
for  old  Manola's  son,  you  can  give  him  my  best  wishes,  and 
say  I  shall  be  glad  to  see  him  here — only  let  him  come  in 
by  the  front  door  next  time." 

CHAPTER  X  :    THE  NUNNERY 

The  women's  convent  at  Bela  Cherkva  *  (white  church)  was 
the  complete  antithesis  of  the  monastery  already  described 
as  being  entombed  in  the  rocks  of  the  Balkan  and  eternally 
silent  and  deserted. 

Here,  on  the  contrary,  were  sixty  or  seventy  sisters,  young 
and  old,  gadding  about  all  day  in  the  quadrangle  and 
galleries,  and  filling  with  mirthful  sounds  the  broad  enclo- 
sure which  was  the  barrier  between  them  and  the  vanities  of 
this  sinful  world.  They  were  perpetually  on  the  move 
from  morning  till  night. 

The  convent  had  the  reputation  of  being  the  most  fertile 
hotbed  of  scandal  in  the  whole  city.  It  was  the  cradle  of 
every  bit  of  tittle-tattle  which  made  the  round  of  and  scan- 
dalised the  hearths  of  the  erring  laity  of  the  town  :  it  was 
there  that  betrothals  were  whispered  of  and  prepared  ;  and, 
sometimes,  impending  marriages  broken  off  too.  From 
thence  innocent  little  tales  would  set  out  on  their  way  round 
the  to\\Ti,  and  return,  well  and  hearty,  but  magnified  a 
hundredfold,  or  else  completely  metamorphosed  ;  naturally 
such  a  centre  of  gossip  attracted  troops  of  lay-friends, 
especially  on  feast-days,  when  these  were  regaled  by  the  holy 
Sisters  with  stories  of  the  town  and  morella -cherry  preserves. 

*  Better  known  under  the  name  of  Sopot,  a  little  town  about  two 
miles  from  Karlovo,  which  is  probably  the  town  alluded  to  as  "  K  " 
throughout  the  work. 


52  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

Sister  Hajji  Rovoama,  whose  acquaintance  we  have 
already  made  at  her  brother  Yordan's,  was  renowned  as  the 
most  skilful  pryer  into  all  the  secrets  of  the  town,  and  the 
most  inveterate  scandal-monger  in  it.  She  had  at  one  time 
been  the  abbess — but  a  revolution  in  the  little  state  had 
deposed  her — none  the  less  was  she  still,  morally,  the  moving 
spirit  of  the  community.  Her  advice  was  appealed  to  in 
every  matter.  She  vouched  for  the  accuracy  of  truthful 
rumours  and  exposed  the  incorrect :  she  had  the  prerogative 
of  starting  fresh  tales,  which  afforded  mental  pabulum  for 
the  little  republic  for  some  days,  after  which  they  spread 
beyond  the  confines  of  the  cloister. 

Sister  Hajji  Rovoama  had  been  for  some  days  enraged  at 
the  liberation  of  Dr.  Sokoloff,  the  sworn  foe  of  the  convent. 
She  cherished  her  malice  in  secret,  asking  herseK  who  could 
possibly  have  come  to  his  assistance  ?  Who  could  it  have 
been  who  had  robbed  her  of  the  satisfaction  of  listening  to 
and  inventing  every  day  new  stories  as  to  his  fate  ?  The 
thing  was  disgraceful.  Indeed,  so  much  did  she  fret  about 
it  that  for  the  last  four  or  five  nights  she  had  not  had  a  wink 
of  sleep.  She  was  continually  cudgelling  her  brains  to  dis- 
cover firstly,  why  the  Doctor  had  refused  to  tell  the  Bey 
where  he  had  been  at  three  o'clock  on  the  eventful  night  of 
his  arrest  ;  and,  secondly,  who  had  changed  the  papers. 
At  last  a  brilliant  idea  flashed  across  her  mind  at  the  very 
moment  when  she  was  saying  her  prayers  before  going  to 
bed.  She  clapped  her  hands  for  joy,  like  Archimedes  when 
he  discovered  his  great  law  of  physics.  She  went  straight 
to  Sister  Serafima,  whom  she  found  already  undressed,  and 
said  in  a  voice  that  shook  with  excitement : 

"  Sister,  do  you  know  where  the  doctor  was  that  night, 
when  he  refused  to  tell  the  Bey  ?  " 

Sister  Serafima  pricked  up  her  ears. 

"  He  was  with  the  Bey's  wife,  my  dear." 

"  Do  you  think  so,  Hajji  ?  " 

"  Of  course,  Serafima — else  why  shouldn't  he  say  so  ?  Is 
he  mad  ?  Holy  Virgin  !  and  to  think  that  I've  only  just 
found  it  out !  "  said  Hajji  Rovoama,  crossing  herself  before 
the  eikonostasis.  "And  do  you  know  who  released  the 
doctor  ?  " 

"  Who,  Sister  ?  "  asked  Serafima. 

"  Why,  she  did,  of  course — the  Bey's  wife." 

"  Really — you  don't  mean  it !  " 


THE  NUNNERY  53 

"  My  God  !  Holy  Virgin  !  what  can  I  have  been  thinking 
about  all  this  time  ?  "  And,  having  relieved  her  excited 
feelings,  Sister  Haj  ji  E-ovoama  went  o5,  finished  her  prayers, 
and  slept  with  the  clear  conscience  of  one  who  has  done 
her  duty. 

Next  morning  the  whole  convent  was  acquainted  with  the 
secret.  The  history  of  the  doctor  and  the  Bey's  wife  grew 
and  assumed  alarming  proportions. 

Each  Sister,  as  she  heard  it,  asked  : 

*'  Who  told  you  so  ?  " 

"  Why,  Sister  Hajji  Rovoama." 

The  name  disarmed  the  most  sceptical :  every  one  rushed 
to  Hajji  Rovoama  for  a  detailed  account. 

In  two  hours  the  story  had  spread  all  over  the  town. 

But  every  scandal,  however  interesting,  grows  stale  in 
three  days.  Society  was  beginning  to  yawn  and  to  clamour 
for  more  gossip.  The  appearance  in  the  town  of  Kralich, 
whom  hardly  any  one  knew,  was  a  godsend  to  the  convent, 
which  was  at  once  busy  with  him.  Who  is  he  ?  Where 
does  he  come  from  ?  What  is  his  business  ?  No  one  could 
answer  these  questions,  though  the  most  curious  tales  were 
current  respecting  him  :  but  the  only  point  in  which  these 
agreed  was  his  name  ;  in  all  other  particulars  they  were  of 
the  most  contradictory  nature. 

Sister  Sofia  alleged  that  he  had  come  there  for  his  health. 

Sister  Ripsimia  averred  that  he  was  a  dealer  in  attar  of 
roses.* 

Sister  Nimfidora  was  sure  he  had  come  after  an  engage- 
ment as  schoolmaster. 

Sister  Solomona  and  Sister  Parashkeva  asserted  that 
neither  of  these  reports  was  correct  ;  that  he  had  come 
there  to  look  out  for  a  wife  ;  and  that,  as  a  matter  of  fact, 
they  knew  on  whom  his  choice  had  fallen. 

Sister  Apraxia  was  ready  to  swear  that  he  was  a  Russian 
prince  in  disguise,  who  had  come  to  inspect  the  old  fortress 
and  distribute  funds  for  their  church.  But  less  faith  was 
attached  to  what  Sister  Apraxia  said,  because  she  was  not 
on  visiting  terms  with  the  best  houses,  but  drew  her  infor- 
mation from  the  wife  of  Petko  Buzzouniak  or  Fachko 
Dobiche's  family. 

Sister  Hajji  Rovoama  listened  to  all  these  confident 

*  The  scene  where  the  story  is  laid  is  in  the  heart  of  the  "  Valley  of 
Roses,"  where  the  famous  attar  is  produced. 


54  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

assertions,  and  smiled  behind  her  moustachios  (of  which 
Nature  had  been  very  prodigal  to  her).  She  knew  all 
about  it,  but  wanted  to  enjoy  the  efforts  of  the  Sisters  to 
find  out  the  truth.  The  oracle  declared  itself  only  late  at 
night. 

The  next  morning  the  whole  convent  knew  that  the 
stranger  OgnianofE  was  a  Turkish  spy. 

One  of  the  chief  reasons — perhaps  the  only  one — why 
Hajji  Rovoama  launched  this  unflattering  rumour  touching 
OgnianofE  was  the  fact  that  he  had  not  yet  paid  his  respects 
to  her  :  this  was  a  mortal  affront  to  her  vanity,  which  gained 
for  Ognianoff  a  relentless  enemy. 

It  was  Sunday.  Service  was  nearly  over  in  the  convent 
chapel,  which  was  thronged  with  worshippers.  Crowds 
stood  outside  under  the  chapel  windows,  beneath  the  spread- 
ing branches  of  the  great  pear  tree.  Most  of  these  were 
young  girls  or  married  women  from  the  town,  all  decked 
with  flowers  and  arrayed  in  their  brightest  Sunday  frocks, 
like  dolls.  They  prattled  merrily  together,  turning  from 
time  to  time  to  the  door  to  inspect  the  Sunday  dresses  of  the 
other  representatives  of  the  fair  sex  who  were  continually 
flocking  into  the  convent.  The  rest  were  nuns,  mostly 
young,  who  were  engaged,  with  no  less  merriment,  in  looking 
about  them,  giggling  and  laughing  perpetually.  From  time 
to  time  they  would  rush  forward  in  swarms  to  pick  up  the 
ripe  golden  pears  as  they  fell  from  the  tree,  and  occasionally 
a  battle  royal  would  ensue  for  the  possession  of  the  fruit, 
after  which  they  would  return  heated  and  flushed  to  the  rest 
of  the  worshippers,  crossing  themselves. 

Service  was  over.  A  stream  of  people  emerged  from  the 
chapel  and  flowed  into  the  cells. 

Hajji  Rovoama's  cell,  though  somewhat  richly  furnished, 
was  small  and  could  scarcely  contain  her  guests.  The  nun 
received  them  with  a  gratified  smile,  whilst  Rada,  in  a  clean 
black  frock  and  hood,  went  round  serving  preserves  and 
coffee  on  a  red  tray.  After  an  hour  the  stream  began  to 
decrease.  Hajji  Rovoama  rose  frequently  to  look  from  the 
window,  as  if  she  expected  some  special  visitor.  Soon  a 
fresh  batch  came  in,  among  whom  was  Alafranga,  Stefchoff, 
Pope  Stavri,  Necho  Pironkoff,  and  a  young  schoolmaster. 
Evidently  it  was  these  whom  she  was  expecting.  She  gave 
a  friendly  greeting  to  her  new  visitors,  who  all  shook  hands 
also  xvith  Rada  ;   Stefchoff,  indeed,  gave  her  hand  a  pro- 


THE  NUNNERY  55 

longed  pressure,  accompanied  with  a  wink  ;  this  threw  the 
girl  into  a  state  of  confusion,  and  she  blushed  rosy-red. 

"  Kiriak,  I  want  to  ask  you  again  about  that  business  of 
the  doctor's,"  the  nun  inquired  after  the  usual  greetings  ; 
"  there  are  all  sorts  of  stories  about  it." 
"  What  stories  ?  "  asked  Stefchoff. 

"  They  say  that  you  purposely  tried  to  make  the  Bey  be- 
lieve the  papers  were  treasonable,  so  as  to  injure  Sokoloff ." 

Stefchoff  flamed  up.     "  Whoever  says  that  is  a  fool  and  a 
liar.     The  papers  taken  from  his  pocket  were  a  copy  of  the 
Nezavisimost — No.  30 — ^and  a  proclamation.    Necho  was 
there  ;  he  can  tell  you  if  I  am  speaking  the  truth." 
Necho  promptly  assented. 

"  We  don't  require  to  ask  Necho.  What  can  Necho  tell 
us  ?  "  declared  Pope  Stavri.  *'  We  know  the  whole  busi- 
ness. Wherever  the  doctor  goes  he  carries  the  gallows  with 
him.  I  said  so  only  last  night  to  Selamsiz.  I  went  to  his 
house  to  taste  his  new  raki — he  knows  just  how  much  ani- 
seed to  put  in.  But  how  are  you.  Sister ;  are  you  all  right?  " 
"  As  you  see,  Father.  I  feel  as  young  as  they  oungest  of 
them,"  said  the  nun,  who  at  once  turned  again  to  Stefchoff. 
"  But  don't  you  really  know  who  changed  the  papers  ?  " 

Hajji  Rovoama  could  scarcely  keep  her  tongue  from 
revealing  her  discovery. 
"  The  police  will  find  out." 

"  I  wouldn't  give  a  farthing  for  your  police.  Shall  I  tell 
you  who  it  is — shall  I  ?  "  she  grinned  ;  then  bending  over 
to  hio  ear,  she  whispered  a  name.  But  the  secret  was  in  so 
loud  a  whisper  that  the  whole  party  heard  it.  Necho,  the 
member,  tossed  his  rosary  up  to  the  ceiling  in  glee  ;  the 
little  schoolmaster  looked  meaningly,  first  at  one,  then  at 
another  ;  and  Pope  Stavri  interposed  a  pious  '  Good  Lord, 
lead  us  not  into  temptation  !  " 
Rada  fled  in  shame  to  the  cellar. 

"  There  he  is — there  he  is  !  "  cried  Stefchoff,  noticing 
Sokoloff  as  he  passed  through  the  courtyard  with  two 
friends.  One  was  Vikenti  and  the  other  Kralich.  All 
crowded  to  the  window. 

This  gave  the  nun  an  opportunity  of  disclosing  her  second 
discovery.     "  Do  you  know  who  he  is  ?  " 

"  What  the  stranger  ?  He's  a  certain  Boicho  Ognianoff," 
answered  Stefchoff ;  "  but  he  looks  to  me  as  if  he  had  some- 
thing to  do  with  the  Committee  too," 


56  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

Haj ji  Rovoama  shook  her  head  in  sign  of  dissent. 

*'  Don't  you  think  so  ?  "  asked  Stefchoff. 

"  No,  no  ;  he's  another  sort  altogether." 

"  He's  a  revolutionary,  I'll  be  bound." 

"  Not  he — a  spy,"  answered  the  nun  authoritatively. 

Stefchoff  glanced  at  her  in  amazement. 

"  Everybody  knows  it  but  you." 

"  Anathema  upon  him,"  cried  Pope  Stavri. 

Hajji  Rovoama  watched  jealously  to  see  where  they 
would  go  in. 

"  They've  gone  in  to  Sister  Christina's  cell,"  she  cried. 

Sister  Christina  had  an  evil  reputation.  She  passed  for  a 
patriot,  and  was  connected  with  the  Committees.  Levski 
had  once  spent  the  night  in  her  cell. 

"  It's  curious  how  fond  the  deacons  are  of  Sister 
Christina , ' '  added  Haj  j  i  Rovoama  with  a  bitter  smile .  "Do 
you  know  that  Vikenti's  going  to  throw  up  the  frock  ?  And 
quite  right  too,  poor  boy — he  became  a  monk  too  young." 

"  He  did  right — you  must  either  marry  early  or  else 
become  a  monk  early,"  affirmed  Pope  Stavri. 

"  Well,  I  agree  with  you  as  to  the  first." 

"  Hush  !  hush  !  for  shame  !  '* 

*'  He's  going  to  send  an  offer  of  marriage  to  Orlianko's 
daughter.  If  she  accepts  him,  he'll  throw  up  the  frock 
and  they'll  be  married  in  Roumania.  But  I  think  she'll 
have  nothing  to  say  to  him,"  and  the  nun  cast  an  attentive 
and  protecting  glance  at  the  little  schoolmaster,  for  whom 
she  was  preparing  the  girl  just  alluded  to.  The  school- 
master blushed  with  confusion. 

Just  then  fresh  visitors  arrived. 

"  Ah  !  there's  brother  !  "  cried  Rovoama,  running  to 
meet  Yordan  Diamandieff. 

The  visitors  rose  and  followed  her  out.  Stefchoff 
remained  a  little  behind  the  rest,  seized  Rada's  hand  to 
say  goodbye  and  pinched  her  blushing  cheek.  She  slapped 
him  on  the  face  and  recoiled  from  him. 

"  Aren't  you  ashamed  of  yourself  ?  "  she  murmured, 
choking,  and  fled  with  tears  in  her  eyes  to  her  own  cell. 

Stefchoff,  who  was  as  unmannerly  with  women  as  he  was 
conceited  and  pompous  with  men,  adjusted  the  tassel  of 
his  fez  which  had  been  disarranged  by  the  blow,  gazed 
menacingly  after  Rada,  and  left  the  house  looking  vexed. 


RADA'S  TRIALS  57 

CHAPTER  XI :  RADA'S  TRIALS 
Rada  Gospojina,  as  she  was  called  to  show  that  she  be- 
longed to  the  "  Gospoja  "  (Sister)  Hajji  Rovoama,  was  a 
tall,  slender,  and  pretty  girl,  mth  regular  features,  and  a 
frank  and  simple  countenance  ;  her  face  looked  still  whiter 
and  prettier  from  under  the  black  hood  she  wore. 

Rada  had  been  an  orphan  from  her  earliest  years,  and 
had  lived  nearly  all  her  life  under  the  roof  of  Hajji  Rovo- 
ama, who  had  taken  charge  of  her  while  yet  a  baby.  Her 
protectress  had  made  a  "  probationer  "  of  her — that  is  to 
say,  a  girl  who  is  preparing  to  become  a  nun,  and  obliged 
her  to  wear  the  regulation  black.  At  present  Rada  acted 
as  teacher  in  the  lowest  class  at  the  girl's  school,  for  which 
she  received  a  salary  of  ten  pounds  a  year. 

The  lot  of  all  orphan  girls  is  a  hard  one.  Too  soon  bereft 
of  a  father's  love  and  protection,  as  well  as  the  tender  care 
of  a  mother,  exposed  to  the  kindness  or  cruelty  of  the  world, 
they  grow  up  without  ever  an  affectionate  encouraging  smile 
being  bestowed  on  them,  surrounded  by  the  indifferent  faces 
of  strangers.  They  are  like  plants  which  have  sprouted  and 
bloomed  in  some  dark  cellar,  joyless  and  unscented.  Let 
but  a  gladdening  ray  of  kindly  light  fall  upon  them,  and 
their  hidden  perfume  scents  the  air. 

Rada  had  grown  up  in  the  pernicious  and  suffocating 
atmosphere  of  convent  life,  under  the  severe  unsympathetic 
supervision  of  the  old  mischief-maker,  and  in  the  power  of 
that  stony-hearted  woman,  who  had  never  experienced  the 
holy  feelings  of  maternal  love  :  her  young  soul  had  pined 
in  the  foul  and  marshy  soil  of  conventual  malice  and  tale- 
bearing. It  never  for  a  moment  occurred  to  Hajji  Rovoama 
that  she  might  have  behaved  more  humanely  to  the  orphan  ; 
she  was  too  busy  with  her  intrigues  to  see  that  her  despotism 
was  daily  becoming  more  felt  and  more  insupportable  to 
Rada,  in  proportion  as  the  girl's  nature  developed  and  her 
seK-respect  increased.  That  is  how  Rada,  though  a  school- 
mistress, was  to  be  seen  waiting  at  table  at  the  house  of 
Hajji  Rovoama's  brother  Yordan. 

For  some  days  Rada  had  been  very  busy,  because  the 
annual  examination-day  was  approaching.  The  eventful 
morning  arrived.  The  girls  began  to  flock  into  school  quite 
early,  all  decked  out  and  arrayed  in  their  best  by  their 
mothers.     They    flitted   about   like    a    swarm    of   bees. 


58  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

conning  their    lessons    over    yet    once  more    before  the 
examination. 

Church  was  over  and  people  began  to  crowd  into  the 
schoolhouse,  according  to  the  custom,  to  be  present  at  the 
examination.     The  doors,   windows,   and  platform,   were 
tastefully  decorated  with  flowers,  and  the  picture  of  Saints 
Kiril  and  Metod  *  was  half  hidden  by  a  gorgeous  frame  of 
roses  festooned  with  garlands  of  ivy.     The  front  benches 
were  soon  filled  up  by  the  pupils,  and  the  rest  of  the  floor 
was  occupied  by  the  spectators,  the  most  important  being  in 
front,  and  some  of  these  were  even  provided  with  chairs, 
amongst  the  latter  being  several  of  our  acquaintances.     But 
a  few  empty  seats  still  remained  for  such  distinguished 
visitors  as  might  yet  come.     Meanwhile,  Rada  was  busily 
marshalling  her  pupils  along  the  benches,  and  whispering  to 
them  a  few  last  instructions.     Her  sweet  face  was  flushed 
with  excitement  on  this  momentous  day,  and  her  great 
moist  eyes  made  her  look  prettier  than  ever.     Transparent 
rosy  clouds  flitted  across  her  cheeks  and  showed  the  agita- 
tion of  her  simple  soul.     Rada  felt  that  a  hundred  curious 
looks  were  directed  towards  her,  and  the  thought  made  her 
shy  and  uncomfortable.     But  when  the  head  schoolmistress 
began  her  speech,  and  everybody's  attention  was  fixed  on 
her,  Rada  felt  a  great  relief,  and  began  to  pluck  up  her 
courage.     She  even  ventured  to  look  round  her  ;   with  de- 
light she  noticed  the  absence  of  Kiriak  Stefchoff.    The 
speech  ended  in  solemn  silence,  the  custom  of  applauding 
not  having  yet  been  introduced.     The  examination  began 
as  appointed  in  the  programme,  with  the  little  ones  in  the 
lowest  class.     The  kind  pleasant  face  of  the  head  teacher  and 
her  encouraging  speech  had  inspired  the  children  with  confi- 
dence.    Rada  followed  the  children's  replies  with  the  closest 
attention,  and  every  little  blunder  they  made  was  reflected 
by  a  painful  contraction  of  her  features.     But  their  clear, 
ringing  little  voices,  their  tiny  red  lips  which  seem  to  attract 
kisses,  decided  their  fate.     She  caressed  them  with  her 
glance,  encouraged  them  with  a  heavenly  smile,  and  tried  to 
instil  her  whole  soul  into  their  faltering  little  lips. 

At  that  moment  the  crowd  standing  at  the  door  divided 
and  made  way  for  two  belated  guests,  who  passed  along 

*  The  pioneers  of  Slavonic  civilisation,  who  introduced  Christianity 
into  Bulgaria,  in  the  tenth  century,  and  were  the  authors  of  the  Cyrillic 
alphabet.  -— 


RADA'S  TRIALS  6^ 

quietly  and  sat  down,  in  the  empty  seats.  Rada  looked  up 
and  saw  them.  The  elder  of  the  two  was  the  chairman  of 
the  School  Committee — Chorbaji  Micho — the  other  was 
Kiriak  Stefchoff .  Involuntarily  she  grew  pale  with  dismay. 
But  she  tried  hard  not  to  see  his  face,  which  filled  her  with 
aversion  and  terror. 

Eariak  Stefchoff  exchanged  a  few  nods  of  recognition, 
without,  however,  greeting  his  neighbour,  Sokoloff ,  who  did 
not  look  at  him  :  he  crossed  his  legs  and  assumed  a  haughty 
and  defiant  air.  He  listened  carelessly,  glancing  every  now 
and  then  towards  a  comer  where  Lalka,  Yordan's  daughter, 
was  standing  with  her  friends.  Once  or  twice  only  he 
scanned  Rada  from  head  to  foot,  sternly  and  contemptu- 
ously. His  face  expressed  only  self-conceit  and  ferocity. 
From  time  to  time  he  sniffed  at  a  carnation  which  he  held 
in  his  hand.  The  teacher,  Clement,  handed  the  book  to 
Alafranga  Mikhalaki,  who,  however,  waved  it  away,  saying 
he  would  examine  the  children  in  French.  The  teacher 
turned  to  the  right  and  offered  the  book  this  time  to 
Stefchoff,  who  took  it  and  moved  his  chair  forward. 

A  dull  murmur  arose  from  the  crowd.  Everybody  stared 
at  Kiriak.  The  subject  for  examination  was  the  abridged 
history  of  Bulgaria.  Stefchoff  laid  the  book  on  the  table, 
passed  his  hands  through  his  hair  as  if  to  refresh  his 
memory,  and  propounded  a  question  aloud.  The  child 
remained  silent.  The  cold,  repellent  look  of  the  examiner 
froze  her  very  soul  to  ice  ;  she  became  confused,  and  did 
not  even  remember  the  question,  but  glanced  piteously  at 
Rada,  as  if  to  implore  her  aid.  Stefchoff  repeated  his  ques- 
tion, but  only  a  fresh  silence  followed. 

"  Let  the  child  go  and  call  another,"  he  said  coldly  to  the 
teacher. 

Another  child  appeared,  and  the  question  was  put  to  her. 
She  heard  it  without  understanding  a  word,  and  remained 
speechless.  Silence  reigned  also  among  the  spectators, 
who  began  to  experience  a  painful  sensation.  The  little 
girl  stood  as  if  transfixed,  but  her  eyes  filled  with  tears 
of  mortification,  which  she  was  even  too  frightened  to 
shed.  She  tried  to  speak,  but  the  effort  was  too  much 
for  her. 

"  The  subject  appears  to  have  been  very  carelessly  taught 
indeed.    Please  call  another  pupil." 

Rada  sadly  uttered  the  name  of  a  pupil. 


60  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

The  third  child  auswered  quite  at  random  ;  she  had  not 
understood  the  question.  Seeing  a  look  of  disapproval  on 
Stefchoff's  face  she  lost  her  self-control,  and  began  to  look 
round  her  in  despair.  Stefchoff  put  another  question. 
This  time  the  child  did  not  answer  at  all.  Her  confusion 
was  apparent ;  her  lips  quivered,  bloodless  ;  suddenly  she 
burst  into  tears,  and  ran  to  hide  herself  where  her  mother 
was  sitting.  Everybody  seemed  to  feel  oppressed.  The 
mothers  whose  daughters  had  not  yet  been  called  up  looked 
on  in  doubt  and  fear,  each  one  trembling  lest  she  should 
hear  her  daughter's  name. 

Rada  stood  like  one  thunderstruck.  Not  a  drop  of  blood 
remained  in  her  face  ;  her  cheeks  quivered  and  her  bosom 
heaved  with  agitation.  She  did  not  dare  to  raise  her  eyes. 
She  seemed  to  herself  to  be  sinking  into  the  ground  ;  a 
feeling  of  intense  oppression  seized  her,  and  it  was  all  she 
could  do  to  restrain  her  tears. 

The  audience  was  unable  to  endure  this  extreme  tension 
any  longer,  and  murmurs  of  disapproval  were  heard. 
People  looked  at  each  other  astounded,  as  if  to  ask,  What 
does  all  this  mean  ?  Everybody  was  anxious  to  put  an 
end  to  this  impossible  state  of  things.  Only  Stefchoff's 
triumphant  countenance  expressed  satisfaction.  The  mur- 
muring grew  louder.  Suddenly  an  ominous  silence  reigned  ; 
everybody  turned  to  Boicho  Ognianoff,  who  had  risen  and 
walked  up  to  Stefchoff. 

"  Excuse  me,   sir,"  he  said  firmly.     "  I  have  not  the 
pleasure  of  jour  acquaintance,  but  your  questions  are  so 
abstract  and  so  obscure  that  they  would  puzzle  fifth-form 
pupils.     It  is  not  fair  to  these  poor  children." 
Then  turning  to  Rada,  he  asked  : 

"  Will  you  allow  me,  miss  ?  "  Then,  as  he  stood,  he 
begged  her  to  call  up  one  of  the  children  who  had  failed. 

A  general  feeling  of  relief  followed.  A  murmur  of  sym- 
pathy and  approval  greeted  Ognianoff's  proceeding.  In 
a  moment  he  had  drawn  all  eyes  to  himself  and  gained  the 
good  wishes  of  all.  The  calumny  launched  by  Hajji 
Rovoama  fell  to  the  ground.  His  open  countenance,  pale 
with  suffering  and  illuminated  by  a  manly  and  energetic 
look,  won  over  all  hearts  irresistibly.  The  faces  of  the 
spectators  brightened  ;  they  breathed  again.  Every  one 
saw  with  satisfaction  that  Ognianoff  was  master  of  the 
situation. 


RADA'S  TRIALS  61 

Ognianoff  asked  the  child,  in  simple  words,  the  very  same 
question  which  Stefchoff  had  put  to  her.  This  time  she 
answered  correctly.  The  mothers  revived,  and  cast  grateful 
glances  at  the  stranger.  His  name,  which  was  new  and 
strange,  passed  from  mouth  to  mouth,  and  remained 
engraved  on  their  hearts. 

Another  child  was  called  up.  She,  too,  answered  as 
satisfactorily  as  could  be  expected  from  a  child  of  her  age. 

Then  all  these  children,  who  a  moment  ago  had  been  in 
a  state  of  wild  terror,  began  to  cast  friendly  glances  at 
Ognianoft.  Their  spirits  rose  ;  each  was  anxious  to  be 
called  first  so  as  to  go  and  talk  with  that  kind  man,  whom 
they  all  Hked  now. 

Rada  passed  from  one  emotion  to  another.  Dum- 
foundered,  despairing,  moved  to  tears  but  a  moment  ago, 
she  now  looked  gratefully  at  the  kind  and  courageous 
stranger  who  had  come  to  her  assistance  at  so  critical  a 
moment.  It  was  the  first  time  she  had  ever  met  with  such 
warm  and  brotherly  sympathy — and  from  a  stranger  too. 
He  a  spy  !  As  he  stoo^  there  he  seemed  to  her  a  guardian 
angel.  He  had  crushed  Stefchoff  like  a  worm.  She  was 
triumphant ;  she  breathed  freely,  and  looked  proudly  and 
happily  on  every  side  :  on  every  side  she  met  sympathetic 
glances.  Her  heart  melted  with  a  grateful  emotion,  and 
her  eyes  filled  with  tears. 

Ognianoff  addressed  the  third  child  in  these  words  : 

"  Raina,  my  dear,  can  you  tell  me  what  Bulgarian  Tsar 
introduced  Christianity  among  us — made  us  Christians  ?  " 

And  he  looked  kindly  and  gently  into  the  innocent  little 
eyes  turned  up  to  him,  which  still  bore  traces  of  tears. 

The  little  girl  hesitated  for  a  minute,  faltered  with  her 
lips,  and  then  in  a  clear  ringing  treble,  like  the  moming-note 
of  the  lark,  she  answered  : 

"  King  Boris  introduced  Christianity  among  the  Bul- 
garians." 

"  Bravo,  Raina  ;  quite  right.  Now  can  you  tell  me  who 
invented  the  Bulgarian  alphabet  ?  " 

The  question  puzzled  the  child  a  little.  She  tried  to  bring 
herself  to  speak,  but  her  timidity  overcame  her  and  she 
nearly  broke  down. 

Ognianoff  came  to  her  assistance.  "  I  mean  our  ABC, 
dear — who  found  it  out  ?  " 

The  child's  countenance  lighted  up.    Raina  stretched  out 


62  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

her  little  arm,  bare  to  the  elbow,  without  uttering  a  word, 
and  pointed  to  SS.  Earil  and  Metod,  who  were  looking  down 
on  her  approvingly. 

"  That's  right,  darling  ;  SS.  Kiril  and  Metod,"  exclaimed 
several  of  the  spectators  in  the  front  row. 

"  Well  done,  Eaina.  May  SS.  Kiril  and  Metod  protect 
you  and  grant  you  to  become  a  queen,"  cried  Pope  Stavri, 
much  moved. 

"  Bravo,  Raina  ;  you  may  go,"  said  Ognianoff  kindly. 

Rama,  proud  and  triumphant,  ran  to  her  mother,  who 
took  her  in  her  arms,  pressed  her  to  her  heart,  and  covered 
her  with  fond  and  foolish  caresses  and  tears. 

Ognianoff  turned  to  the  teacher  Kliment  and  handed  back 
the  book  to  him. 

"  Won't  you  examine  my  Subka,  sir  ?  "  asked  Chorbaji 
Micho  of  Ognianoff. 

A  bright-looking,  fair-haired  little  girl  was  already  in 
front  of  him,  watching  him  with  an  air  of  pleased  expecta- 
tion.    Ognianoff  thought  for  a  moment,  and  asked  : 

"  Subka,  can  you  tell  me  what  Tsar  it  was  that  freed  the 
Bulgarians  from  the  Greek  yoke  ?  " 

"  The  Bulgarians  were  freed  from  the  Turkish  yoke  by 
..."  the  child  began  erroneously. 

"  No,  no,  Subka,"  cried  her  father.  "  You're  to  tell  us 
by  what  Tsar  they  were  freed  from  the  Greek  yoke.  We  all 
know  what  Tsar  is  to  free  us  from  the  Turkish  yoke." 

"  What  God  has  decreed  no  man  can  prevent,"  said  Pope 
Stavri. 

Chorbaji  Micho 's  simple  remark  caused  much  laughter  in 
the  audience. 

Subka  cried  eagerly  :  "  The  Bulgarians  were  freed  from 
the  Greek  yoke  by  Tsar  Asen,  but  they  will  be  freed  from 
the  Turkish  yoke  by  Tsar  Alexander  of  Russia." 

She  had  misunderstood  her  father's  words. 

The  schoolroom  rang  with  the  child's  words. 

But  annoyance  and  disapproval  were  depicted  on  many 
faces.  All  glanced  mechanically  at  Rada,  who  bltished  and 
hung  her  head.  Some  of  the  glances  cast  on  her  were  of 
reproof,  others  of  approbation.  But  every  one  felt  uncom- 
fortable. Stefchoff  had  recovered  from  his  temporary  down- 
fall ;  he  raised  his  head  and  looked  round  triumphantly. 
Every  one  knew  of  his  intimate  relations  with  the  Bey,  and 
his  habit  of  fawning  to  the  Turks  ;  and  they  tried  to  read 


RADA'S  TRIALS  68 

from  his  face  what  he  thought.  Public  feeling,  which  but  a 
moment  before  had  been  warmly  in  favour  of  Rada  and 
OgnianofP,  cooled  do^\T^  and  was  replaced  by  a  dull  sense 
of  dismay.  Stefchoff's  connections  began  to  murmur  their 
disapproval  in  audible  tones,  and  those  who  were  well- 
disposed  to  the  poor  teacher  remained  silent.  Poor  old 
Pope  Stavri  was  overwhelmed  with  confusion.  He  was 
afraid  for  what  he  had  said,  and  in  his  heart  uttered  a 
fervent  "  Good  Lord,  have  mercy  upon  us."  But  the  two 
camps  were  more  sharply  defined  on  the  women's  side. 
Hajji  Rovoama,  especially,  enraged  at  Stefchoff's  previous 
discomfiture,  looked  daggers  at  Rada  and  Ognianoff  and 
blamed  them  aloud.  She  even  called  the  latter  a  rebel, 
forgetting  that  only  a  few  days  before  she  had  proclaimed 
him  to  be  a  spy.  But  there  were  others  who  were  just  as 
loud  in  their  defence.  Mother  Ghinka  cried  so  that  all 
could  hear  her  : 

"  Wliat's  everybody  making  such  a  fuss  about  ?  The 
child  hasn't  blasphemed,  has  she  ?  She's  only  said  the 
plain  truth.  There,  I  don't  mind  saying  so  myself,  that 
Tsar  Alexandri  will  liberate  us,  and  no  one  else." 
"  Be  quiet,  you  stupid,"  whispered  her  mother. 
As  for  Subka,  she  was  quite  bewildered.  She  had  only 
said  what  she  had  heard  her  father  or  his  visitors  say  every 
day,  and  she  could  not  conceive  why  her  words  should  have 
caused  such  a  commotion. 

Stefchoff  got  up  and  turned  to  the  spectators  in  the  front 
rows  : 

"  Gentlemen,"  he  said,  "  revolutionary  ideas  are  being 
expressed  against  the  Government  of  H.I.M.  the  Sultan. 
I  cannot  stop  here  and  listen  to  such  language." 

He  went  out,  followed  by  Necho  Pironkoff  and  three 
or  four  others.     But  his  example  found  no  other  imitators. 

After  a  minute's  excitement  people  began  to  see  that  the 
incident  did  not  deserve  special  attention.  A  child  had  in 
her  innocence  spoken  a  few  misplaced  words — but  what 
of  that  ?  Calm  was  restored,  and  with  it  the  previous 
feeling  of  sympathy  towards  Ognianoff,  who  from  every 
side  of  the  room  received  friendly  glances.  He  was  the 
hero  of  the  day  ;  he  had  on  his  side  all  the  honest-minded 
and  all  the  mothers. 

The  examination  proceeded  and  came  to  an  end  in  perfect 
quiet. 


64  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

The  pupils  sang  a  song  and  the  people  dispersed  satisfied. 
When  Ognianoff  approached  Rada  to  take  leave  of  her,  she 
said  to  him  earnestly,  "  Mr.  Ognianoff,  I  thank  you  heartily 
both  for  myself  and  my  little  girls.  I  shall  never  forget 
your  kindness  "  ;  so  saying  she  gave  him  a  look  in  which 
deep  gratitude  was  expressed. 

"  My  dear  young  lady,  I  have  been  a  teacher  myself, 
and  felt  for  you — that's  all.  I  congratulate  you  on  the 
success  of  your  pupils,"  said  Ognianoff,  with  a  warm  and 
friendly  grasp  of  the  hand.  After  he  had  gone,  Rada 
noticed  no  one  of  all  the  visitors  who  came  to  congratulate 
and  shake  hands  with  her. 

CHAPTER  XII :  BOlCHO  OGNIANOFE 
The  appearance  in  the  town  of   Boicho   Ognianoff   (for 
Kralich  had  definitely  assumed  the  name  by  which  Vikenti 
had  introduced  him  to  Sokoloff  at  their  first  meeting  in  the 

cemetery  at  K )  naturally  enough  drew  upon  him  general 

attention.  There  had  been  a  long  discussion  as  to  what 
he  should  do,  in  which  his  three  friends  Vikenti,  Dr.  Sokoloff 
and  the  Higoumen  had  taken  part.  At  first  they  were  of 
opinion  that  he  ought  not  to  show  himself  in  public  ;  but 
Ognianoff  was  able  to  disarm  their  apprehensions  with  ease. 
He  assured  them  that  he  was  from  distant  Widdin,  where 
nobody  from  Bela  Cherkva,  except  Marko  Ivanoff ,  had  ever 
been — that  he  had  been  so  long  absent  that  no  one,  even 
from  there,  would  recognise  him,  the  sufferings  of  eight 
years'  exile  in  Asia,  coupled  with  the  climate,  having  aged 
him  so  much  and  changed  him  so  completely. 

But  so  far  from  his  enthusiasm  for  the  ideas  for  which 
he  had  suffered  having  been  calmed  down  by  exile  and 
suffering,  they  had  made  him  a  still  more  fervent  idealist — 
bold  to  madness,  frienzied  in  his  love  for  his  country,  and 
chivalrous  to  the  degree  of  self-sacrifice.  Fateful  occasions 
have  already  sl^own  him  to  us  at  work.  Aye,  he  had  come 
to  Bulgaria  to  work  for  its  liberation.  Such  a  man,  who 
had  escaped  from  exile  and  Avas  living  under  an  assumed 
name,  who  was  bound  by  no  family  or  social  ties,  exposed  at 
every  minute  to  be  betrayed  or  discovered,  without  any 
future  or  purpose  in  life,  could  have  been  brought  to  Bulgaria, 
or  have  been  kept  there  after  the  double  deed  of  blood  he 
had  committed,  only  by  some  such  great  purpose  as  this. 


BOiCHO  OGNIANOFF  65 

How  could  he  work  so  as  to  bring  about  some  result  ? 
What  was  the  field  afforded  for  his  labours  ?  What  could 
he  do  ?  Was  his  aim  possible  of  attainment  ?  He  could 
not  tell.  All  that  he  knew  was  that  he  would  encounter 
great  difficulties  and  dangers,  which  indeed  began  to  beset 
him  at  the  very  beginning  of  his  labours. 

But,  for  such  chivalrous  natures  as  his,  difficulty  and 
danger  are  but  the  anvil  against  which  their  strength  is 
hardened  and  welded.  They  are  strengthened  by  opposi- 
tion, attracted  by  persecution,  nourished  by  danger  ;  for 
these  constitute  a  struggle,  and  every  struggle  fortifies  and 
ennobles.  It  is  beautiful  in  the  worm  which  raises  its  head 
to  bite  the  foot  about  to  crush  it ;  it  is  heroical  when  under- 
taken by  a  man  for  self-preservation  ;  it  is  divine  when  it 
is  on  behalf  of  humanity. 

In  the  first  few  days  Hajji  Rovoama's  calumny  had 
averted  from  him  many  with  whom  his  friends  wished  him 
to  become  acquainted.  But  his  triumph  at  the  examina- 
tions, occasioned  by  Stefchoff's  baseness,  had  in  a  moment 
closed  the  mouths  of  his  traducers,  and  opened  to  him  all 
doors  and  all  hearts.  Ognianoff  became  the  favourite  guest 
of  the  whole  hamlet.  He  gladly  accepted  the  offer  by  Marko 
Ivanoff  and  Micho  Beyzade  of  a  situation  as  teacher,  so  as 
to  have  some  ostensible  grounds  for  remaining  there.  His 
colleagues  were  :  Climent  Belcheff,  the  head  teacher ; 
Frangoff ;  the  pupil-teacher  Popoff  ;  and  the  chorister 
Stefan  Merdivenjieff,  who  was  the  teacher  of  the  Turkish 
language.  The  first  named  was  a  Russian  seminarist,  and 
as  such  an  agreeable,  unpractical  visionary  ;  when  the 
superintendents  called  on  him  he  recited  to  them  lines 
from  Khomiakoff  and  Derjavin's  "  God."  Chorbaji  Marko 
would  have  preferred  stories  on  the  greatness  of  Russia,  or 
about  Bonaparte.  The  third  was  a  hot  and  excitable  youth, 
a  former  friend  of  Levski's,  who  dreamt  only  of  committees, 
revolutions,  and  insurgents.  He  hailed  with  delight  his 
new  colleague,  to  whom  he  at  once  became  passionately 
devoted.  The  only  uncongenial  person  was  Merdivenjieff, 
with  his  devotion  to  the  psalter  and  his  love  for  the  Turkish 
language.  The  first  showed  a  mind  gone  to  rust  ;  the 
second,  one  who  bows  beneath  the  lash.  For  a  Bulgarian 
who  likes  the  Turkish  language  must  either  love  the  Turks 
themselves  or  expect  some  reward  from  them.  Naturally 
this  coincidence  of  tastes  united  him  with  Stefchoff. 


66  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

In  accordance  with  the  duties  he  had  undertaken, 
Ognianoff  taught  both  in  the  boys'  and  in  the  girls'  school ; 
consequently  he  met  Rada  every  day.  Every  time  he  saw 
her  he  discovered  fresh  charms  in  the  young  girl,  and  one 
fine  morning  he  awoke  to  find  himself  deeply  in  love  with 
her.  Need  it  be  said  that  she  already  loved  him  in  secret  ? 
From  the  day  when  he  had  so  chivalrously  come  to  her 
assistance  she  had  been  filled  with  that  potent  feeling  of 
warm  gratitude  which  in  a  moment  gives  way  to  love.  Her 
poor  little  heart,  thirsting  after  sympathy  and  affection,  was 
at  once  seized  with  an  ardent,  pure,  and  boundless  love  for 
Ognianoff.  In  him  she  saw  realised  the  dim  ideal  of  her 
dreams  and  her  hopes,  and  under  the  beneficent  influence 
of  this  new  emotion  Rada  bloomed  and  flourished  like  a 
rose  in  May. 

Two  such  pure  and  honest  natures  were  fated  to  under- 
stand each  other  without  need  of  a  lengthy  acquaintance,  or 
much  preliminary  intercourse.  Every  day  Ognianoff  found 
a  greater  joy  and  relief  in  her  conversation.  His  love  for 
her  grew  and  flourished  in  his  heart  by  the  side  of  that 
other  great  love  he  had  for  his  country.  The  one  was  a 
giant  pine,  ready  to  withstand  the  furious  storm-blast,  the 
other,  a  lowly  flower,  thirsting  for  sun  and  dew  ;  both  grew 
on  the  same  soil,  but  the  rays  which  the  sun  shed  on  the 
one  did  not  reach  the  other. 

Yet  his  heart  was  often  oppressed  by  sad  thoughts  which 
fell  on  it  like  lead.  What  would  become  of  this  innocent 
creature,  whose  fate  was  becoming  entwined  with  his  own 
uncertain  destiny  ?  Whither  was  he  leading  her  ?  What 
would  be  their  end  ?  He,  the  combatant,  the  man  of  perils 
and  adversity,  was  he  to  draw  towards  his  terrible  path  this 
pure,  loving  child,  whose  life  was  only  now  beginning  to 
expand  under  the  kindly  fostering  of  love  ?  She  sought  for 
and  awaited  from  him  a  secure  and  happy  future,  joyful  and 
untroubled  bliss  beneath  the  new  heavens  his  love  had 
created  for  her.  Why  was  this  poor  girl  to  share  the  cruel 
blows  fate  was  preparing  for  him  alone  ? 

No,  it  was  his  duty  to  disclose  all  to  her,  to  pluck  from 
her  eyes  the  veil  of  blindness,  and  to  show  her  with  what 
manner  of  man  she  was  uniting  her  lot.  These  thoughts 
weighed  heavily  on  his  mind,  and  he  determined  to  seek 
relief  in  a  full  and  open  confession  of  the  truth. 

He  sought  out  Rada. 


BOiCHO  OGNIANOFF  67 

She  had  now  left  the  convent  and  was  living  in  one  of  the 
rooms  of  the  school,  modestly  and  even  poorly  furnished. 
The  only  ornament  the  room  boasted  was  its  occupant. 

Ognianoff  knocked  at  the  door  and  went  in. 

Rada  received  him  with  a  smile  on  her  tearful  face. 

"  Rada,  you've  been  crying  ?  What  is  it,  darling  ?  "  and 
he  tenderly  clasped  her  head  and  caressed  her  blushing 
cheeks. 

She  drew  back,  wiping  her  eyes. 

"  What's  the  matter,  dear  ?  "  asked  Ognianoff  surprised. 

"  Sister  Hajji  Rovoama  has  just  been  here,"  answered 
Rada  in  a  broken  voice. 

"  Has  she  been  vexing  and  ill-treating  you  again  ?  Tell 
me  all  about  it.  Why,  some  one  has  been  trampling  on  my 
songs !  " 

"  You  see,  Boicho,  the  Sister  threw  them  down,  and  tram- 
pled on  them — she  found  them  on  the  table — '  Revolution- 
ary songs,'  she  called  them,  and  then  she  abused  you  in  such 
terrible  words.     How  can  I  help  crying  ?  " 

Ognianoff  became  serious. 

"  What  terrible  things  did  she  say  of  me  ?  " 

"  What  didn't  she  say  ?  She  called  you  a  rebel,  a  bandit, 
a  murderer  !     My  God,  how  can  she  be  so  merciless  !  " 

Ognianoff  looked  thoughtfully  at  Rada,  and  said  : 

"  Listen  to  me,  Rada,  you  and  I  are  friends,  but  we  don't 
know  each  other  yet ;  or  rather  you  don't  know  me.  The 
fault  is  mine.  Do  you  think  you  could  love  me  if  I  really 
was  the  kind  of  man  they  say  I  am  ?  " 

"  No,  dear  ;  I  know  very  well  you're  the  most  honourable 
man  in  the  world — that's  why  1  love  you  "  ;  so  saying  she 
clung  to  his  neck  like  a  child,  and  looked  lovingly  into  his 
eyes. 

He  smiled  bitterly,  moved  by  her  simple  faith. 

"  And  don't  you  know  me  well  enough  ?  Else  how  could 
we  have  fallen  in  love  with  each  other  ?  "  whispered  Rada, 
still  clinging  to  him. 

Ognianoff  kissed  her  affectionately,  and  said  : 

"  Rada,  my  darling,  if  I  am  to  be  an  honourable  man,  as 
you  call  me,  I  must  tell  you  things  you  know  nothing  about. 
My  love  for  you  has  kept  me  back  till  now,  for  fear  of  pain- 
ing you,  but  my  conscience  impels  me  to  speak.  You  must 
know  to  whom  you  are  binding  yourself.  I  have  no  right 
to  remain  silent  any  longer." 


68  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  Tell  me  all — ^you'll  always  be  the  same  to  me,"  she  said, 
with  emotion. 

Ognianoff  made  her  sit  down,  aud  seated  himself  beside 
her. 

"  Rada,  Hajji  Rovoama  says  that  I  am  a  rebel.  She 
doesn't  know  what  she  means — she  calls  every  decent  youth 
a  rebel." 

"  Yes,  dear,  she's  a  very  wicked  woman." 

"  But  I  really  am  a  rebel,  Rada." 

Rada  looked  at  him  astounded. 

"  Yes,  Rada,  and  a  real  rebel,  too,  busy  preparing  an 
insurrection." 

She  sat  motionless  without  uttering  a  word. 

"  We  intend  to  begin  the  insurrection  next  spring. 
That's  why  I  came  here."     Rada  remained  silent. 

"  That  is  my  future — a  future  full  of  uncertainty  and 
danger." 

Rada  looked  at  him  in  dumb  surprise,  but  said  nothing. 

Ognianoff  saw  his  fate  in  her  cold  silence.  At  every  word 
he  said  the  girl's  devotion  to  him  was  dissolving  into  air. 
He  made  an  effort  to  keep  calm,  and  proceeded  with  his 
confession. 

"  That  is  my  future  ;  now  I  must  tell  you  my  past  life." 

Rada  fixed  her  troubled  glance  on  him. 

"It  is  still  darker,  if  not  more  terrible,  Rada.  Do  you 
know  that  for  eight  years  I  was  imprisoned  in  Asia  for  a 
political  offence,  and  that  I  am  a  fugitive  from  Diarbekir, 
Rada  !  " 

Rada  made  no  reply. 

"  Tell  me,  Rada,  did  the  Sister  say  anything  of  all  this  ?  " 

"  No  ;  she  knows  nothing  of  it,"  answered  Rada  faintly. 

Ognianoff  remained  deep  in  thought  for  a  moment,  and 
added  : 

"  She  called  me  a  murderer  and  an  assassin.  She  knows 
nothing  of  that  either,  Rada  !  She  called  me  a  spy  only  a 
few  days  ago — but  listen." 

This  time  Rada  felt  something  terrible  was  coming.  She 
grew  deadly  pale. 

"  Listen  !     I  killed  two  men — and  not  very  long  ago." 

Rada  recoiled  from  him  involuntarily. 

Ognianoff  did  not  dare  to  look  at  her  ;  he  was  addressing 
the  wall ;  his  heart  seemed  as  if  being  crushed  in  an  iron 
vice. 


THE  ROAD  TO  SILISTRIA  69 

"  Yes,  I  killed  two  Turks — I,  who  had  never  harmed  a 
fly  before  in  my  life.  I  was  bound  to  kill  them,  or  they 
would  have  violated  a  girl  before  my  eyes — before  me  and 
her  father,  whom  they  had  bound.  Yes,  I'm  a  murderer, 
and  Diarbekir  again  awaits  me,  if  not  indeed  the  gallows  !  " 

Rada  turned  and  looked  strangely  at  him. 

"  Go  on — go  on,"  she  murmured  wildly. 

"I've  told  you  all ;  you  know  who  I  am  now,"  answered 
Ognianoff  in  a  quivering  voice.  He  waited  to  hear  the 
terrible  sentence  he  could  already  read  in  her  face. 

Rada  flung  herself  into  his  arms. 

"  You're  mine  !  "  she  cried.  "  You're  the  noblest  man 
living — you're  my  hero,  my  beloved,  beautiful  hero  !  " 

And  the  two  young  lovers  clasped  each  other  in  a  fond 
and  passionate  embrace,  frenzied  with  love  and  happiness. 

CHAPTER  XIII :  THE  ROAD  TO  SILISTRIA  '^^^ 

Such  was  the  name  given  to  a  delightful  grassy  meadow  in 
the  valley  of  the  monastery,  surrounded  by  branching 
willows  and  tall  walnuts  and  elms.  Though  it  was  already 
late  autumn,  this  sweet  and  shady  spot  still  preserved  intact 
all  its  greenness  and  freshness,  like  Calypso's  isle  where 
eternal  spring  reigned.  Through  the  spreading  branches 
could  be  seen,  north  of  this  happy  valley,  two  peaks  of  the 
Stara  Planina — the  Crooks  and  the  Point.  Between  these 
stretched  the  main  ridge  of  the  Balkans,  with  its  sharp 
precipices  and  jagged  rocks,  below  which  murmured  and 
sparkled  the  rill.  The  cool  mountain  breeze  softly  fanned 
the  leaves,  and  brought  the  scent  of  the  Balkans  as  well  as 
the  murmur  of  the  mills  nearer.  On  the  other  side  gleamed 
the  dry,  bleached  beds  of  the  torrents  which  the  winter 
floods  had  scooped  and  hollowed  out.  The  sun  was  at  its 
highest,  and  its  rays,  darting  through  the  trees,  rained  on 
the  grass  a  shower  of  quivering  flakes,  round  and  golden. 
A  marvellous  coolness  and  quiet  reigned  in  that  poetic  spot, 
which  bore  nevertheless  so  prosaic  and  inaccurate  a  name. 
For  no  road,  either  to  Silistria  or  anywhere  else,  had  ever 
passed  through  the  lonely  meadow,  which  nestled  so  grace- 
fully beneath  the  hereabouts  inaccessible  Stara  Planina.  It 
owed  its  designation  not  to  its  geographical  situation,  but  to 
a  totally  different  and,  so  to  speak,  historical  circumstance. 
The  pleasant  coolness  of  this  retired  spot  had  made  it  for 


70  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

many  years  past  the  favourite  rendezvous  for  all  picnics, 
merrymakings,  and  orgies.  It  was  in  this  Capua  that  many 
a  merry  tradesman  of  Bela  Cherkva,  many  a  spendthrift 
heir  had  made  their  money  fly  in  a  too  prodigal  conviviality  : 
when  all  was  spent  the  decave,  as  a  matter  of  course,  took 
the  road  to  Silistria,  where,  thanks  to  the  fertility  of  the 
country  and  the  backwardness  of  its  inhabitants,  an  easily 
earned  livelihood — sometimes  even  a  fortune — was  to  be 
found  :  and  the  success  of  the  first  emigrants  from  Bela 
Cherkva  had  attracted  others  to  the  promised  land — the 
Plains  of  Silistria. 

In  this  manner  Silistria  and  its  surrounding  villages  had 
received  quite  a  number  of  the  roysterers  of  Bela  Cherkva, 
who  acted  as  the  pioneers  of  civilisation  in  that  benighted 
country  ;  for,  amongst  others,  they  had  supplied  it  with  a 
round  dozen  of  popes  and  upwards  of  twenty  school-teachers. 
So  that  for  the  inhabitants  of  our  hamlet  it  was  the  most 
direct  road  to  Silistria. 

In  spite  of  its  fatal  significance,  the  glory  of  the  "  Road  to 
SiHstria  "  continued  to  flourish  and  to  attract  all  who  had 
a  taste  for  jaunts  and  merrymaking  ;  nor  were  these  few  in 
number,  for  with  all  its  hardships  bondage  has  yet  this  one 
advantage  :  it  makes  a  nation  merry.  Where  the  arena  of 
political  and  scientific  activity  is  closely  barred,  where  the 
desire  of  rapid  enrichment  finds  no  stimulant,  and  far- 
reaching  ambition  has  no  scope  for  its  development,  the 
community  squanders  its  energy  on  the  trivial  and  personal 
cares  of  its  daily  life,  and  seeks  relief  and  recreation  in 
simple  and  easily  obtainable  material  enjoyment.  A  flask 
of  wane  sipped  beneath  the  cool  shade  of  the  willows  by 
some  clear  murmuring  rivulet  will  make  one  forget  one's 
slavery ;  the  native  guvech  (stew)  with  its  purple  egg-plants, 
fragrant  parsley,  and  sharp  pepper-pods,  enjoyed  on  the 
grass  under  the  spreading  branches  overhead,  through 
which  peeps  the  blue  distant  sky,  constitutes  a  kingdom, 
and  if  only  there  be  a  gipsy  piper  present,  is  the  height  of 
earthly  bliss.  An  enslaved  nation  has  a  philosophy  of  its 
o\^Ti  which  reconciles  it  to  its  lot.  When  a  man  is  irretriev- 
ably ruined,  he  often  puts  a  bullet  through  his  head  or  ends 
his  life  in  some  equally  rapid  and  decisive  manner.  But  a 
nation,  however  hopeless  its  bondage,  never  ends  its  own 
existence  ;  it  eats,  drinks,  begets  children.  It  enjoys  itself. 
If  one  but  look  at  the  poetry  of  a  nation,  one  finds  clearly 


THE  ROAD  TO  SILISTRIA  71 

expressed  the  national  spirit,  the  nation's  life,  and  its  views 
of  existence.  There,  amid  cruel  torments,  heavy  chains, 
dark  dungeons,  and  festering  wounds,  is  yet  interwoven  the 
mention  of  fat,  roasted  lambs,  jars  of  red  wine,  potent  raki, 
interminable  marriage  feasts,  and  mazy  dances  on  the  green 
sward  beneath  the  shade  ;  these  form  the  subject  of  a  whole 
anthology  of  national  songs. 

By  the  time  that  Sokoloff  and  Ognianoff  arrived,  the 
"  Road  to  Silistria  "  was  already  echoing  with  the  shouts  of 
the  gay  company.  There  were  present,  amongst  others, 
Nikolai  Netkovitch,  an  educated  and  enlightened  youth  ; 
Kandoff,  a  student  at  a  Russian  university,  who  had  come 
to  the  Balkan  for  the  benefit  of  his  health,  a  man  of  wide 
reading  but  a  thorough  idealist,  imbued  with  all  the  Utopias 
of  Socialism  ;  Fratio-Frangoff,  the  teacher,  a  hot-headed 
youth  ;  Popoff,  an  exalted  patriot ;  Pope  Dimcho,  also  a 
patriot,  and  at  the  same  time  a  drunkard ;  and  Blind  Kolcho. 
The  latter,  who  was  completely  blind,  was  a  shrivelled-up 
little  fellow  with  a  thin  and  wizened  but  intelligent  face  ;  he 
played  the  flute  with  much  skill,  and  was  accustomed  to 
wander  over  the  length  and  breadth  of  Bulgaria,  his  powers 
as  a  wit  and  story-teller  rendering  him  an  indispensable 
guest  at  all  festivities. 

The  meal  was  already  laid  out  on  a  bright  rug  on  the 
grass.  Two  great  demi -Johns — one  of  red  wine,  the  other 
of  white — were  cooUng  in  the  mill-stream  which  flowed 
below  the  meadow.  A  party  of  gipsies  were  merrily  fiddling 
away  and  singing  Turkish  love  songs  lustily.  A  clarionet 
and  two  cymbals  completed  the  noisy  orchestra.  The  meal 
was  a  merry  one.  Toasts  followed  fast,  being  drunk  sitting, 
as  was  then  the  custom. 

The  first  toast  was  proposed  by  Ilicho  the  Inquisitive. 

"  Here's  a  health  to  all  of  us,  boys  !  To  all  of  us  God 
grant  whatever  most  we  want.  May  He  His  fear  instil  in 
those  who  wish  us  ill,  and  send  His  wrath  on  those  who 
fain  would  be  our  foes." 

Glasses  clashed  gaily. 

"  Long  live  all  of  us  !  "  cried  FrangofiE. 

"  I  drink  to  the  '  road  to  Sihstria  '  and  its  pilgrims  !  '* 
declared  Pope  Dimcho. 

Popoff  raised  his  glass,  and  cried  : 

"  Brothers,  to  the  Lion  of  the  Balkans  !  " 

The  music,  which  had  ceased,  now  struck  up  again  and 


72  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

interrupted  the  toasts  :  but  Fratio,  who  had  not  yet  pro- 
posed his,  beckoned  to  the  gipsies  to  stop,  rose  to  his  feet, 
and  said  enthusiastically,  glass  in  hand  : 

"  Gentlemen,  I  propose  the  health  of  Bulgarian  liberie. 
Vivat  !  "  And  he  emptied  his  glass.  But  the  company, 
who  did  not  quite  understand  what  he  meant,  kept  their 
glasses  full,  thinking  from  his  excited  air  that  he  meant  to 
make  a  speech.  Fratio  was  astonished  at  meeting  with  no 
response,  became  confused,  and  sat  down  again. 

"  What  is  it  you  mean,  sir  ?  "  asked  KandofE  coldly, 
turning  to  Fratio.     Fratio  frowned. 

"  I  thought  I  had  made  myself  quite  intelligible,  sir,"  he 
said  :  "  I  drank  to  Bulgarian  Liberty  !  "  The  last  word  he 
spoke  low,  with  a  look  of  suspicion  at  the  gipsies. 

"  But  what  do  you  understand  by  liberty  ?  "  insisted  the 
student. 

Sokoloff  turned  to  them. 

"  I  think  we  ought  rather  to  drink  to  Bulgarian  bondage. 
Bulgarian  Liberty  does  not  exist." 

"  Not  yet,  but  we  will  get  it." 

*'  How  will  you  get  it  ?  " 

"  By  drinking  its  health,"  said  some  one  ironically. 

"  No,  by  fighting  for  it,"  cried  Fratio,  in  excitement. 

*'  All  right,  Fratio,  you  try,  then — an  ox  is  bound  by  the 
horns,  but  a  man  by  his  word." 

"  The  sword,  gentlemen,  the  sword  !  "  and  Fratio  shook 
his  fist  frenziedly. 

"  Then  I  drink  to  the  sword,  the  God  of  slaves,"  said 
Ognianoff,  raising  his  glass. 

This  electrified  the  assemblage. 

"  Agoush,"  cried  some  one,  *'  play  *  Proud  Nikifor*  deter- 
mined,' "  which  was  then  the  Bulgarian  Marseillaise. 

The  music  struck  up  and  the  whole  party  began  to  sing  ; 
when  they  came  to  the  line  "  Strike,  slay,  until  the  land  be 
freed  !  "  the  excitement  became  intense,  and  knives  and 
forks  were  brandished  in  frenzy. 

Fratio  had  seized  a  huge  knife,  with  which  he  was  slashing 
the  atmosphere.  With  one  wild  gesticulation  he  struck  a 
large  glass  of  red  wine  that  the  boy  was  taking  to  some  one. 
The  wine  was  spilt,  and  Fratio's  Hght  summer  coat  and 
trousers  were  drenched. 

*  An  allusion  to  the  defeat  of  the  Byzantine  Emperor  Nikifor  (Nice- 
phorus)  by  the  Bulgarians  in  a.d.  811. 


THE  ROAD  TO  SILISTRIA  78 

"  Fool !  "  cried  Fratio. 

*'  Don't  be  angry,  Gospodin  Fratio,"  said  Pope  Dimcho  ; 
*'  don't  you  know  that  where  there  is  striking  and  slaying 
blood  will  be  spilt  ?  " 

At  this  stage  every  one  was  shouting  his  loudest,  and 
each  was  inaudible  to  the  other,  for  the  musicians  were 
playing  a  Turkish  march,  with  a  deafening  accompaniment 
of  cymbals. 

Ognianoff  and  Kandoff  had  separated  from  the  others 
and  were  carrying  on  a  discussion  under  a  tree.  Nikolai 
Netkovitch  had  also  joined  them. 

"  You  tell  me  that  we  must  prepare  for  the  struggle," 
said  Kandoff,  continuing  the  discussion,  "  because  its 
object  is  freedom.  But  what  is  this  freedom  ?  We  are  to 
have  a  prince — that  is  to  say,  a  petty  Sultan — of  our  own  ; 
we're  to  be  oppressed  by  officials  ;  monks  and  priests  are 
to  fatten  on  our  toil  ;  and  the  army  will  sap  the  very  life- 
springs  of  the  nation.  Is  this  your  freedom  ?  I  would  not 
sacrifice  a  drop  of  blood  from  my  little  finger  for  it." 

"But  listen  to  me,  Mr.  Kandoff,"  answered  Netkovitch. 

*'  No  one  respects  your  principles  more  than  I  do,  but  they 

have  no  place  here.     What  we  want  is  pohtical  freedom — 

that  is,  to  be  masters  of  our  own  land  and  our  own  destinies .' ' 

Kandoff  shook  his  head  in  dissent. 

*'  Well,  then,  explain  this  to  me.  You  will  appoint  new 
masters  in  place  of  the  old  ;  you  don't  want  the  Sheikh-ul- 
Islam,  but  you  will  set  up  another,  whom  you  call  the 
Exarch — that  is  to  say,  you  replace  one  tyrant  by  another. 
You  impose  rulers  on  the  nation,  and  annihilate  every  idea 
of  equahty  ;  you  consecrate  the  right  of  the  strong  to 
despoil  the  poor,  of  capital  to  oppress  labour.  Give  to  your 
contest  a  more  humanitarian,  a  more  modem  object ;  make 
it  a  struggle  not  only  against  the  Turkish  yoke,  but  also  for 
the  triumph  of  modem  principles — that  is,  the  destruction 
of  those  foolish  distinctions,  consecrated  by  the  prejudices  of 
centuries,  such  as  the  throne,  rehgion,  the  right  of  property 
and  of  the  stronger,  of  which  human  brutality  has  consti- 
tuted unassailable  principles.  Read  Herzen,  Bakounin, 
Lassalle.  Leave  this  narrow,  animal  patriotism,  and  raise 
the  standard  of  rational  modem  humanity  and  sober  science. 
Then  I  am  mth  you." 

"  The  ideas  you  express,"  answered  Ognianoff  sharply, 
"  show  your  erudition,  it  is  true,  but  prove  only  too  clearly 


T4  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

how  ignorant  you  are  of  the  Bulgarian  question.  Under 
the  standard  you  speak  of  you  would  find  yourself  alone — 
the  nation  would  not  understand  it.  You  must  bear  in 
mind,  Mr.  Kandoff,  that  through  the  nation  we  can  attain 
only  one  rational  and  possible  object — that  is,  the  destruc- 
tion of  the  Turkish  rule.  We  see  before  us  only  one  enemy 
— the  Turk  ;  and  it  is  against  that  enemy  that  we  will  rise. 
As  for  the  principles  of  Socialism  to  which  you  have  treated 
us,  we  cannot  stomach  them.  Bulgarian  common  sense 
rejects  them,  and  they  will  never  find  a  field  in  Bulgaria, 
either  now  or  at  any  other  time.  Your  high-sounding 
principles  and  standards  of  '  modem  thinking  humanity  and 
the  sober  science  of  reason  '  only  serve  to  confuse  the 
subject.  What  we  have  to  do  is  to  protect  our  homes,  our 
honour,  our  lives  from  the  lowest  zaptie  who  may  choose 
to  assail  them.  Before  solving  general  problems  of  social 
science — or,  more  correctly,  obscure  theories — we  must 
free  ourselves  from  our  chains.  Those  writers  whose  teach- 
ings you  have  mastered  neither  know  nor  care  about  us  and 
our  sufferings.  We  can  rely  only  upon  the  nation,  in  which 
we  cannot  but  include  the  Chorbaji  class  and  the  clergy  : 
they  represent  forces  which  we  must  make  use  of.  Abolish 
the  zaptie,  and  the  nation  attains  its  ideal.  You  may  have 
another  ideal,  but  it  is  not  that  of  the  nation." 

Just  then  the  music  stopped  and  the  noise  ceased.  The 
blind  boy  was  playing  on  his  flute,  from  which  issued 
sounds  of  astonishing  sweetness. 

"  Come  here,  you  fellows.  What  are  you  philosophising 
about  there  ?  "  cried  some  to  the  three  disputants. 

These,  however,  did  not  even  turn  round  ;  the  discussion 
continued  to  rage  hotly. 

Blind  Kolcho  continued  to  play  for  some  time  amid 
solemn  silence,  the  whole  party,  though  some  were  more  or 
less  excited  by  their  potations,  enjoying  the  soothing 
melody  of  his  flute.     Suddenly  he  stopped  and  said  ; 

"  What  do  you  think  I  can  see  ?  " 

There  was  a  general  laugh. 

"  Will  you  guess  ?  "  asked  Kolcho. 

"  What  will  you  give  us  if  we  guess  right  ?  "  asked 
some. 

"  My  astronomical  telescope." 

"  Where  is  it  ?  " 

"  In  the  moon." 


THE  ROAD  TO  SILISTRIA  75 

"  You  can  see  the  rosy  cheeks  of  Todorich's  daughter 
Milka,"  said  Pope  Dimcho. 

"  Not  I !  I'd  rather  kiss  them  than  see  them — it's  more 
in  my  line." 

"  Well,  you  can  see  Mr.  Fratio,"  said  Popoff,  for  Fratio 
was  standing  in  front  of  the  blind  man  and  waving  his  arms 
about. 

"  How  can  one  see  the  wind  ?  " 

"  The  sun,  then  !  " 

"  No,  you're  wrong  again — the  sun  and  I  fell  out  long  ago, 
and  I've  sworn  I'll  never  look  at  him  as  long  as  I  live." 

"  Well,  you  see  the  night,"  said  the  doctor. 

"  No,  no  ;  what  I  see  is  the  glass  of  wine  you're  going  to 
give  me — confound  it,  you've  forgotten  me." 

At  once  a  number  of  glasses  were  poured  out  and  brought 
to  him. 

"  Your  health,  everybody,"  he  said,  and  emptied  his 
glass. 

"  But  what  am  I  to  have,  as  you  couldn't  guess  ?  " 

"  The  other  glasses  we  poured  out  for  you." 

"  How  many  of  them  are  there  ?  " 

"  Seven — the  same  number  as  the  deadly  sins." 

"  Well,  I'd  rather  have  the  forty  holy  martyrs,  if  I  were  in 
his  place,"  remarked  Pope  Dimcho. 

"  Well  said— here's  luck  !  " 

"  Vive  la  Bulgarie,  vive  la  Republique  des  Balkans," 
cried  Fratio  in  French. 

Dusk,  however,  broke  up  the  revels,  and  a  move  was 
made  towards  the  town. 

"  Boys,  don't  forget  the  rehearsal  at  the  school  to- 
morrow," cried  Ognianoflf. 

"  What  are  you  going  to  act  ?  "  asked  the  student. 

"  '  Genevieve.' " 

"  Why  did  you  choose  that  old  piece  ?  " 

"  For  two  reasons — first  because  it's  not  of  a  seditious 
character — the  Chorbajis  insisted  on  that ;  and,  secondly, 
because  every  one  has  read  it  and  wants  it.  We  had  to  con- 
sult their  tastes  ;  what  we  want  is  large  takings  ;  we  have 
to  buy  newspapers  and  books  for  our  reading  room,  as  well 
as  '  other  things.'  " 

The  band,  merry  and  boisterous,  made  for  the  to^n,  and 
was  soon  lost  among  the  gardens  which  the  evening  twilight 
was  already  enveloping.    In  a   quarter  of  an  hour  they 


76  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

made  their  victorious  entry  in  the  already  dark  streets  of  the 
town,  lustily  singing  revolutionary  songs.  This  seditious 
demonstration  brought  the  women  and  children  in  crowds 
to  their  thresholds. 

Ognianoff,  however,  was  not  among  them.  While  yet 
in  the  fields  a  little  boy  had  brought  him  hurriedly  some 
message,  and  he  had  left  his  companions  without  being 
noticed. 

CHAPTER  XIV  :  AN  UNFORESEEN  MEETING 
Ognianoff  struck  towards  the  north,  and  made  his  way  in 
the  direction  of  the  ridge  of  the  Balkans.  It  was  already 
dark.  The  sun  h^^d  set  peacefully  and  majestically.  Its 
last  rays  that  gilded  the  lofty  summits  of  the  Stara  Planina 
were  vanishing.  Only  a  few  clouds,  with  golden  fringes  to 
the  westward,  still  smiled  at  the  sun  from  their  height  in  the 
pure,  ethereal  atmosphere.  The  valley  was  now  quite 
wrapped  in  gloom.  The  white  torrent-beds  in  the  west 
were  plunged  in  the  dim  shade  which  was  stealing, 
darker  and  darker,  over  the  monastery  meadows,  the  rocks, 
and  the  walnuts,  willows,  and  pear  trees,  whose  outlines 
were  gradually  becoming  faint  and  blurred.  Not  a  single 
flutter  or  chirp  from  that  world  of  birds  that  all  day  long 
had  made  the  valley  gay — they  were  silent  in  their  nests, 
securely  perched  on  the  branches  or  hidden  under  the  eaves 
of  the  monastery.  Jointly  with  the  darkness  reigned  the 
weird  and  melancholy  quiet  of  the  night ;  the  only  sound 
that  broke  the  utter  solitude  was  the  roar  of  the  mountain 
torrents.  Now  and  again  the  wind  would  carry  the  distant 
tinklings  of  some  belated  herd  scampering  home  to  the 
town.  Soon  the  moonlight  shone  forth  and  enhanced  the 
charm  of  that  idyllic  hour.  A  golden  flood  poured  over 
plain  and  trees,  which  cast  marvellous  shadows  on  the 
ground.  The  dry  water-courses  showed  out  more  clearly 
against  the  dark  background  of  the  old  ruins  ;  the  new 
cupola  towered  white  and  tall  above  the  gables  and  poplars 
of  the  monastery,  and  behind  it,  high  in  the  heavens,  soared 
the  summits  of  the  Stara  Planina  till  they  were  lost  in  the 
dark  blue  depths  above. 

Ognianoff  passed  behind  the  monastery  and  followed  up 
the  mill-stream,  which  issued  from  beneath  a  dark  copse  of 
thick-branching  walnuts  ;    he  passed  under  this  rustling 


AN  UNFORESEEN  MEETING  77 

roof,  crossed  the  stream  on  the  huge  blocks  of  stone  that 
sprawled  across  its  course,  and  soon  appeared  on  the  ridge 
of  the  Balkan  whence  the  stream  flowed. 

There  the  scene  changed  ;  it  became  wilder  and  more 
majestic.  On  either  side  of  the  stream  the  rocks  rose  steep 
and  bare,  broken  here  and  again  by  the  torrents,  and  above 
the  jagged  crags  peered  down  in  fantastic  shapes.  The 
moonlight  reached  only  the  topmost  peaks  of  the  rocks  :  all 
the  rest  was  plunged  in  gloom.  Here  the  noise  of  the  water- 
falls became  deaiening,  and  reverberated  with  the  echoes 
of  the  wall  of  rock  on  either  side.  The  wind  sighed  and 
sobbed  out  its  autumnal  plaint  through  the  bushes  :  the 
valley  became  gradually  wilder  and  more  desolate. 

Ognianoff  pushed  his  way  perilously  along  the  storm- 
worn  path,  which  was  indeed  only  used  by  day,  being  too 
treacherous  to  venture  along  by  night.  He  remembered 
that  some  six  months  before  he  had  passed  there  when  he 
had  come  do^vn  from  the  mountain  and  made  his  entry  over 
the  wall  into  Marko's  j^ard.  Soon  the  path  was  quite 
hidden  from  view  in  the  increasing  darkness.  He  could 
scarcely  pick  his  footing  through  the  sharp-pointed  rocks 
that  strewed  the  way  before  him.  Had  any  one  seen  him 
at  that  moment  and  in  that  wild  place,  now  crawling,  now 
leaping  from  crag  to  crag,  he  would  have  taken  him  for  a 
wild  beast  rather  than  a  human  being.  Suddenly  a  new 
sound  struck  his  ear  :  it  was  the  rumbling  of  the  mill.  He 
advanced  bolder  and  more  confidently  towards  it.  Soon 
in  the  dark  depths  of  the  valley  he  discerned  the  roof  of 
Father  Stoyan's  mill,  and  in  a  moment  he  had  reached  it. 

Father  Stoyan  met  him  outside  the  door. 

"  What  is  it  ?  "  asked  Ognianoff  hurriedly  and  anxiously. 

"  Nothing,  thank  Gk)d  !  " 

This  answer  relieved  Ognianoff  at  once.  He  had  begun 
to  fear  that  something  had  been  found  out  concerning  the 
adventure  with  the  two  Turks,  and  that  this  was  the  reason 
why  old  Stoyan  had  sent  for  him. 

"  What  did  you  want  me  f or  ?  "  asked  Boicho  again. 

"  Nothing.  Forgive  me,  Master,  for  having  given  you 
the  trouble  of  coming  here,  but  as  it  was " 

And  old  Stoyan,  lowering  his  voice,  added  : 

"  I'd  have  sent  for  our  Vikenti,  only  he's  down  with  fever 
just  now  ;  and  as  our  Christo  told  me  he'd  seen  you  near 
the  monastery,    thinks    I,  '  Let's   send   for   the  Master, 


78  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

that'll  be  better  still.'    But  you'll  forgive  me,  won't  you, 
Master  ?  " 

Boicho  began  to  grow  impatient. 

"  Well,  but  what  is  it  ?  " 

"  What,  didn't  you  ask  the  boy  ?  " 

"No." 

"  Well,  that's  odd.  Bother  the  boy  !  I  told  him  that  if 
you  asked  him  he  was  to  whisper  it  in  your  ear.  This  is 
what's  happened,  master  " — and  he  lowered  his  voice  still 
more — "  a  friend's  come." 

"  What  friend  ?  " 

"  Why,  one  of  us." 

"  One  of  us  ?  " 

"  Why,  ves,  a  Nationalist." 

"  Who  is  he  ?  " 

"  I  don't  know.  He  came  down  from  the  mountain  last 
night,  and  made  straight  for  me.  He  frightened  me  at  first; 
I  thought  he  Avas  a  brigand.  You'll  see  what  a  state  he's  in  ; 
his  legs  are  like  broomsticks.     But  he  turned  oat  all  right." 

"  Did  he  say  who  he  was  or  where  he  was  coming  from  ?  " 
asked  Ognianoff,  deeply  interested. 

"  I  asked  him,  but  all  he  answered  was  that  he  was  flying 
from  the  Turks  and  had  come  down  the  mountain." 

"  Didn't  he  ask  for  anything  ?  " 

"  Yes  ;  he  asked  for  a  piece  of  bread — hadn't  eaten  for 
four  days,  he  said.  And  he  asked  me  to  send  for  some  good 
friend — some  Nationalist — to  come  and  have  a  talk  with 
him.  First,  I  thought  of  the  deacon,  but  this  confounded 
fever  of  his  hasn't  left  him  ;  so  then  I  sent  for  you." 

"  Quite  right,  Father  S  toy  an." 

"  Forgive  me.  Master,  for  the  trouble  I've  given  you." 

*'  Not  I ;   I'm  glad  of  it.     Where's  your  guest  ?  " 

"  I've  got  him  carefully  stowed  away.  Come  with  me." 
And  Father  S  toy  an  led  him  into  the  mill. 

It  was  in  complete  darkness. 

He  lighted  a  petroleum  lamp,  guided  Boicho  between  the 
wall  and  the  mill-stones,  past  two  corn-bins,  and  stopped 
before  a  little  door,  over  which  were  still  hanging  great 
cobwebs  half  torn  away,  showing  it  had  long  been  kept 
closed. 

"  W^hat,  is  he  in  there  ?  " 

"  Rather  !  The  cat  doesn't  st^al  the  milk  that's  put 
away— isn't  that  so,  Master  ?  " 


AN  UNFORESEEN  MEETING  79 

And  Father  Stoyan  knocked  at  the  door,  and  called  out : 

"  Now,  sir,  come  out,  if  you  please." 

The  door  opened,  and  a  young  man  appeared,  glancing 
cautiously  around  him.  He  was  short  and  weakly  in 
appearance,  with  a  very  diminutive  face,  long  unshaven  : 
his  countenance  wore  a  bright,  eager  look,  and  his  move- 
ments were  lithe  and  active  ;  but  what  struck  OgnianofI 
was  his  utter  weakness  and  emaciation.  He  was  dressed  in 
the  coarse  white  clothes  usually  worn  by  Macedonian 
peasants,  and  trimmed  with  the  traditional  braiding,  knobs, 
and  tassels  on  the  back,  breast,  and  knees,  but  completely 
worn  out,  so  that  the  naked  sMn  showed  through  many  a 
rent. 

At  the  first  glance  both  he  and  OgnianofE  exclaimed  with 
surprise  : 

"  Mourathski !  " 

"  KraUch  !  " 

And  they  rushed  into  each  other's  arms  and  embraced 
warmly. 

"  What  ?  You  ?  Where  have  you  come  from  ?  "  asked 
Ognianoff,  who  recognised  in  Mouratliski  a  comrade  from 
the  band  of  insurgents  to  which  he  had  belonged. 

"  Never  mind  me.  Where  have  you  been  all  this  time  ? 
Is  it  really  you,  Kralich  ?  " 

Kralich  turned  back  with  a  start,  pointed  to  the  mill,  and 
addressed  Stoyan,  \^'ho  stood  motionless  in  front  of  them 
holding  the  lamp  : 

"  Father  Stoyan,  put  out  the  light  and  shut  the  door — or 
rather  never  mind — we'll  go  out.  There's  too  much  noise 
here  to  talk." 

Father  Stoyan  led  the  way  with  the  lamp,  and  shut  the 
door  behind  them,  saying  : 

"  There,  you  have  a  good  talk  together.  I'm  going  to 
bed.    When  you  feel  sleepy  come  in  and  lie  down." 

The  valley  was  completely  obscure,  but  the  opposite  side 
of  the  rocks  was  brightly  lit  up  by  the  moon.  Ognianoff 
and  his  companion  went  into  the  darkest  part  of  the  valley, 
and  seated  themselves  on  a  broad  ledge  of  rock,  by  the  side 
of  which  the  torrent  foamed  past. 

"  Let's  shake  hands  again,  brother,"  said  Ognianoff, 
feelingly. 

"  Why,  KraUch,  whatever  brought  you  here  ?  I  last 
heard  of  you  in  the  paradise  of  Diarbekir." 


80  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  And  you,  Dobri  ?  Haven't  you  gone  to  the  gallows 
yet  ?  "  asked  Boicho  in  jest. 

They  were  very  old  and  intimate  acquaintances.  A  com- 
mon fate  and  common  sufferings  will  unite  the  most  diver- 
gent of  characters  :  how  much  more  then  two  such  as 
Boicho  and  Mouratliski,  who  were  brothers  in  arms  and 
in  ideas. 

"Well,  tell  us  all  about  it,"  added  Mouratliski, "  your 
story  dates  further  back,  so  you  take  precedence.  When 
did  you  come  back  from  Diarbekir  ?  " 

"  You  mean,  when  did  I  escape  ?  " 

*'  What  ?  did  you  escape  ?  " 

*'  Yes,  last  May." 

"  And  you  managed  to  get  here  unmolested  ?  What 
road  did  you  take  ?  " 

"  I  went  on  foot  from  Diarbekir  to  Russian  Armenia  : 
from  there  through  the  Caucasus  to  Odessa,  thanks  to  the 
assistance  of  the  Russians.  At  Odessa,  I  got  a  steamer 
to  Varna,  and  from  there  over  the  mountains  to  the 
shepherd's  huts  near  Troyan,  then  over  the  Stara  Planina 
to  Bela  Cherkva." 

"  But  what  made  you  pick  out  Bela  Cherkva  ?  " 

"  I  was  afraid  to  go  anywhere  where  I  didn't  know  any 
one  ;  on  the  other  hand,  I  fought  shy  of  former  friends,  not 
knowing  what  might  be  their  views  now.  I  remembered 
that  my  father's  best  friend,  a  very  worthy  man,  lived  at 
Bela  Cherkva  :  no  one  else  could  possible  know  me  there  ; 
indeed,  he  wouldn't  have  known  me  if  I  hadn't  told  him 
who  I  was." 

"  Well,  I  recognised  you  at  once.     So  you  stayed  on  ?  " 

"  Yes,  that  friend  of  my  father's  got  me  a  situation  as  a 
schoolmaster,  and  till  now,  thank  God,  everything  has  gone 
well." 

"  So  now  you've  become  a  schoolmaster,  Kralich  ?  " 

"  Ostensibly — a  schoolmaster  ;  but,  in  reality,  the  same 
old  trade." 

"  What— preaching  ?  " 

"  Yes,  revolution." 

"  Well,  how  are  you  getting  on  ?  We  made  a  mess  of 
our  business." 

"  For  the  present  things  are  going  well.  The  people's 
minds  are  much  excited,  the  soil  is  volcanic  :  Bela  Cherkva 
was  one  of  Levski's  nests." 


AN  UNFORESEEN  MEETING  81 

"  And  what's  your  plan  ?  " 

"  As  yet  we  haven't  any.  We're  preparing  the  rebelHon 
theoretically,  so  to  speak,  and  waiting  for  something  to 
turn  up.  But  the  movement  grows  stronger  every  day,  not 
only  here  but  round  about,  and  we  shall  have  a  rebellion 
sooner  or  later." 

"  Bravo,  Kralich  !  Well  done  !  You're  a  marvellous 
fellow." 

"  Come,  let  me  hear  about  your  trials,  now." 

*'  Oh,  you  know  all  about  that  business.  We  made 
such  a  mess  of  it  at  Stara  Zagora  that  we  daren't  look  any 
one  in  the  face." 

"  No,  no  ;  begin  from  the  beginning,  from  where  our 
band  was  routed  and  we  all  separated.  Remember,  I've 
had  eight  years  of  Diarbekir,  and  I've  heard  nothing  of  you 
or  any  of  my  friends  all  the  time." 

Mouratliski  stretched  himself  out  at  full  length  on  the 
rock,  placed  his  hands  under  his  head,  and  in  that  position 
of  repose  told  his  story  in  detail.  He  had  taken  part  in  the 
Sofia  conspiracy  under  Dimitr  Obshti,*  and  in  the  attack  on 
the  Orkhanie  mail.  He  had  been  betrayed,  arrested,  and 
flung  into  prison,  and  had  only  by  some  miracle  escaped 
the  gallows  or  Diarbekir.  Later  he  had  gone  to  Roumania, 
where  he  had  wandered  for  a  year  and  a  half,  struggling 
against  famine  and  misery  ;  from  thence  he  had  returned  to 
Bulgaria  on  a  mission,  to  fight  against  the  terrors  and  perils 
which  encompass  an  agitator.  That  spring  he  had  appeared 
at  Stara  Zagora,  and  had  laboured  with  enthusiasm  to 
prepare  the  insurrection.!  After  the  lamentable  failure  of 
the  movement,  during  which  he  had  been  slightly  wounded 
by  the  Turks  at  the  short  engagement  at  Elkhovo,  he  had 
made  for  the  Stara  Planina,  pursued  by  the  Turkish  patrols 
and  even  by  the  Bulgarian  shepherds  to  whom  he  had 
applied  for  a  piece  of  bread  or  a  change  of  clothes. 

For  ten  days  he  had  wandered  over  the  Balkan,  exposed 
to  a  thousand  dangers  and  sufferings.  His  terrible  hunger 
had  forced  him  to  come  down  from  the  mountains  and  beg, 
revolver  in  hand,  for  a  piece  of  bread  from  the  first  living 
man  he  should  meet.     Fortunately,   he  had  come  upon 

*  In  1873. 

t  This  abortive  movement  (the  chief  leader  of  which  was  M.  Stam- 
boloff,  later  the  Bulgarian  Prime  Minister)  broke  out  on  the  16th  (28th) 
September  1875,  and  was  at  once  suppressed  by  the  Turks. 


82  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

Father  Stoyan.  He  related  with  gratitude  how  kindly  the 
miller  had  received  him  ;  he  was,  he  said,  the  first  man  who 
had  treated  him  with  humanity  since  he  had  been  wandering 
on  the  Stara  Planina. 

Mouratliski  stopped.  The  river  rippled  past  their  feet. 
Around  all  was  still.  The  moonlit  rocks  opposite  them 
were  soundless.  Only  on  the  peaks  of  the  hills  the  night 
breeze  rustled  among  the  wild  lilac  and  other  low  shrubs. 

Ognianoff  had  followed  eagerly  Mouratliski's  recital  of  his 
adventures  and  dangers.  He  seemed  himself  to  be  passing 
through  all  those  emotions  and  sufferings,  to  feel  the  same 
bitter  disenchantment  and  shame  at  the  baseness  and 
cowardice  of  the  people,  by  which  the  repression  of  a 
revolution  is  usually  followed.  Now,  with  a  brother's 
interest,  he  was  pondering  how  to  assist  Mouratliski. 

"  Well,  what  do  you  think  of  doing  now  ?  "  asked  Boicho. 

"  I  shall  go  back  to  Roumania,  if  you  can  only  get  me 
clothes  and  a  passport." 

Ognianoff  became  thoughtful. 

"  What  are  you  going  to  do  there  ?  " 

"  I  shall  bide  my  time,  and  when  the  revolution  breaks 
out  I  shall  be  there — I  can't  help  it — what's  born  in  the 
flesh,  you  know." 

"  That's  no  good  ;  you're  not  fit  to  travel  till  you've 
recovered  a  little.     Stay  here  !  " 

"  What,  and  hide  ?  No,  I  can't  do  that.  I  don't  want  a 
voluntary  imprisonment." 

"  Yes,  but  you  won't  want  to  hide,"  cried  Ognianoff,  after 
half  a  minute's  reflection. 

*'  Why  not  ?  " 

*'  You'll  go  about  the  town  as  freely  as  I  do,  and  we  shall 
work  together." 

*'  With  all  my  heart.  But  are  you  mad,  Ej?alich  ?  I 
should  be  caught  the  very  first  day.  They're  looking  for 
me  behind  every  tree." 

"  They're  looking  for  insurgents  and  Bulgarians." 

*'  Well,  and  what  do  you  think  I  am  ?  "  he  said  laugh- 
ingly. 

"  You  will  be  a  respectable  and  peaceful  photographer, 
and,  what's  more,  an  Austrian." 

"  I  don't  understand  you." 

Ognianoff  smiled  and  continued,  trying  to  see  Mourat- 
liski's face  in  the  dark ; 


AN  UNFORESEEN  MEETING  88 

"  Your  hair  and  beard  are  as  long  as  a  dervish's.  To- 
morrow night  I  shall  take  you  to  my  rooms,  and  we'll  get 
rid  of  this  thatch.  We'll  leave  you  only  your  whiskers. 
You  won't  mind  ?  " 

"  All  right ;   what  next  ?  " 
"  Next,  we  shall  shave  off  your  moustache." 
'*  Well,  I  suppose  that  must  go  too,"  said  Mouratliski, 
smiling. 

"  After  that,  we'll  Europeanise  you  a  little.  A  friend  of 
mine,  who  arrived  yesterday  from  Roumania,  will  give  us 
an  old  velvet  suit.  I've  got  a  railway  guard's  cap  with  a 
gold  band  ;  and  then  '  Goot  morgen,  main  Kherr.'  " 

"  Very  well.  I  shall  become  an  Austrian  ;  but  how  am 
I  going  to  make  out  that  I'm  a  photographer  ?  " 

"  You'll  have  a  photographic  apparatus.  Three  years 
ago  the  photographer  Christoff  lived  at  Bela  Cherkva  as  an 
agitator.  When  he  went  away  he  left  behind  his  apparatus, 
which  was  out  of  order,  with  a  very  good  friend  of  mine, 
called  Netkovitch.  We'll  have  the  camera  mended  as  best 
we  may,  and  buy  you  all  the  plates,  acids,  and  cards  you 
want,  and  then  you  can  start  ofE  photographing  our  worthy 
townspeople." 

"  But  I've  never  even  dreamt  about  photography." 
"  Oh,  you'll  learn  it  fast  enough.     You'll  twist  their  eyes, 
knock  off  their  noses,  distort  their  mouths,  and  mutilate 
their  faces  a  little  at  first,  but  you'll  soon  be  a  master  in  the 
art." 

"  Well,  you  shall  be  my  first  victim." 
"  All  right." 

"  And  I'm  not  to  talk  Bulgarian  ?  " 
"Not  a  word,  you're  to  avoid  it  carefully.  All  that 
you'll  talk  is  German  or  Bohemian.  Czech  is  very  similar 
to  our  language,  and  people  will  understand  one  word  in 
ten  ;  then  as  time  goes  by  you  may  begin  with  a  little 
broken  Bulgarian.  I  suppose  you  haven't  forgotten  your 
Czech  ?  " 

"  I  was  only  in    Pisek   for   a  year,  after   your   time, 
4)ut  I  remember  enough  to  ask  for  bread,  water,  and  so 
forth." 

"  So  much  the  better,  because  the  passport  I  have  is 
made  out  in  Czech  for  a  certain  Yaroslav  Brzobegounek." 
"  What  ?     Yaroslav  Brzobegounek  ?  " 
"  Yes,  a  glorious  Czech  name,  and  not  unfitting  for  you  ; 


84  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

you're  a  real  Brzobegounek  ;*  haven't  you  gone  over  half 
the  Balkan  Peninsula  on  foot  ?  So,  then,  I)obri  Mourat- 
liski,  from  to-morrow  you  will  be  Pan  Yaroslav  Brzobe- 
gounek, an  Austrian  Czech,  bom  with  a  photographic 
apparatus  on  his  back  !  " 

And  Ognianoff  took  off  his  hat  with  meek  solemnity. 

"  Good  morning,  Pan  Yaroslav,  will  you  take  my  photo- 
graph ?  "  he  asked,  in  Czech. 

"  With  pleasure,  Pan  Yane,"  answered  Mouratliski,  in  the 
same  language. 

"  Stop,  I'm  no  longer  Ivan  Kralich  ;  here  I'm  knowTi  as 
Boicho  Ognianoff,  don't  forget." 

"  Well,  you  have  the  advantage  of  me,  you  haven't  to  get 
into  a  completely  foreign  skin — ah,  Pan  Yane,  Pan  Yane." 

"  Pan  Boicho,  didn't  I  tell  you,"  cried  Ognianoff,  "  you're 
quite  likely  to  betray  me  through  your  carelessness.  You 
must  remember  your  part  well.  Pan  Yaroslav." 

Half  an  hour  later  they  went  back  to  the  mill,''locked  the 
door  carefully,  and  stretched  themselves  out  to  sleep  on 
the  sacks  of  grain,  to  the  deafenii^g  and  monotonous  sound 
of  the  mill. 


CHAPTER  XV :    A  VOICE  FROM  THE  GRAVE 

In  the  morning  Ognianoff  started  for  the  town.  He  crossed 
the  ridge  of  the  Balkan  and  emerged  at  the  monastery.  In 
the  field  by  the  monastery,  under  the  great  walnut-trees,  the 
Higoumen  was  paciug  up  and  down,  bareheaded.  He  was 
enjoying  the  morning  beauty  of  that  romantic  spot,  and  was 
breathing  in  deep  draughts  of  the  sweet  health-giving 
mountain  air.  The  autumnal  nature  had  a  new  charm  in 
the  russet  leaves  of  the  trees,  the  yellow,  velvety  summits  of 
the  Balkan,  and  the  general  tokens  of  melancholy  and  decay. 

Ogniauoff  and  the  higoumen  greeted  one  another. 

"  These  are  charming  spots,  father,"  said  Ognianoff  ; 
"  you're  lucky  in  being  able  to  live  in  the  midst  of  Nature, 
and  to  enjoy,  peacefully,  her  divine  charms.  If  I  ever  feel  a 
vocation  to  take  up  your  calling  it  will  be  out  of  love  for 
Nature  and  her  eternal  beauty." 

"  Take  care,  Ognianoff  ;  you  would  be  coming  down  in 
the  world  if  you  became  a  mon,k  after  being  an,  apostle. 
No,  no  ;  stay  as  you  are.  Besides,  I  wouldn't  have  you  in 
*  I.e.,  Swift  in  flight. 


A  VOICE  FROM  THE  GRAVE  85 

my  monastery  ;  you'd  pervert  even  Father  Yerote,  you're 
such  a  godless  atheist,"  said  the  higoumen  in  jest. 

"  What  kind  of  an  old  boy  is  he  ?  "  asked  Boicho 
irreverently. 

"  A  very  respected  and  honourable  brother,  whose  only 
failing  is  that  he's  too  fond  of  his  money  ;  I  think  he  plants 
it  in  the  ground  so  that  it  may  grow.  Whenever  we  ask  him 
for  any,  for  common  expenses,  he  grumbles  so  much  that 
we've  made  a  proverb  out  of  him — he  grumbles  like  Father 
Yerote,  we  say.     But  where  are  you  coming  from  so  early?" 

"  I  spent  the  night  at  Father  Stoyan's  mill." 

"  Why  ?  did  you  have  a  scare  ?  "  and  the  higoumen 
looked  at  him  with  some  surprise. 

"  No,  no — but  a  friend  has  turned  up." 

Upon  which  Ognianoff  related  to  him  briefly  his  meeting 
with  Mouratliski. 

"  Why  ever  didn't  you  bring  him  to  the  monastery  ?  " 
said  the  higoumen,  reproachfully.  "  You  must  have  slept 
on  the  sacks  of  com  !  " 

"  We  '  Koumitajis  '  *  can  put  up  with  a  good  deal." 

"  Well — well — God  bless  you.  What  did  you  say  you 
had  christened  him  ?  " 

"  Yaroslav  Brzobegounek." 

Father  Natanail  laughed. 

"  You  apostles  are  a  funny  lot ;  but  take  care  your 
waterpot  isn't  upset  for  the  third  time." 

"  Never  you  fear  ;  there's  a  God  for  us  Koumitajis  as 
well  as  for  brigands,"  said  Boicho,  smiling  significantly. 
"  Why,  you've  brought  your  rifle  with  you,"  noticing  Father 
Natanail's  rifle  leaning  against  a  willow- tree. 

"  Yes  ;  I  thought  I'd  try  it  this  morning.  It's  a  long 
time  since  I  had  it  in  my  hand.  You  fellows  have  excited 
the  whole  population,  and  we  have  music  now  every  day  in 
front  of  the  monastery — nothing  but  shooting  :  enough 
noise  to  stir  up  the  dead,  let  alone  an  old  sinner  like  me." 

"  Well,  it's  a  good  thing  to  try  your  hand  again,  Father 
Higoumen." 

As  they  walked  on  the  two  came  to  the  mill  of  the 
terrible  night.  The  mere  sight  of  it  brought  deep  furrows 
to  Ognianoff's  brow. 

*  All  insurgents  or  suspected  insurgents  were  supposed  by  the  Turks 
to  be  connected  with  the  Revolutionary  Committees  at  Bucharest  or 
Belgrade,  and  were  hence  called  "  Koumitajis  "  or  Committee-men-, 


86  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

The  mill  was  now  closed.  Stoyan  the  miller  had  left  it 
and  taken  another,  situate,  as  we  have  already  seen,  on  the 
monastery  stream. 

The  mill,  deserted  and  covered  with  moss,  resembled  a 
grave  in  that  beautiful  spot. 

At  that  moment  Mouncho  had  stealthily  approached  ;  he 
stopped  and  fixed  his  eyes  on  Ognianoff.  A  strange  smile 
played  over  his  idiot's  countenance.  In  that  look,  bereft 
of  reason,  could  be  read  the  mingled  affection,  fear,  and 
surprise  which  Boicho  had  awakened  in  his  mind.  Years 
before  he  had  cursed  Mohammad  before  an  on-bashi,  who 
had  beaten  him  till  he  lay  senseless  on  the  ground.  From 
that  time  his  obscured  conscience  had  retained  only  one 
feeling,  one  thought — a  terrible,  demoniacal  hatred  of  the 
Turks.  He  happened  to  witness  the  slaughter  of  the  two 
ruffians  in  the  mill  and  their  burial  afterwards,  and  had 
conceived  an  unbounded  admiration  and  reverence  for 
Ognianoff.  This  feeling  amounted  almost  to  worship.  He 
called  him  the  Russian  for  some  inexpUcable  reason.  The 
first  night  he  had  been  terribly  scared  by  confronting  him 
on  the  verandah,  but  he  had  since  become  accustomed  to 
Ognianofi's  frequent  visits  to  the  monastery.  He  seemed 
fascinated  by  him — could  not  take  his  eyes  off  him,  and 
regarded  him  as  his  protector.  Whenever  the  servants 
teased  him  he  would  threaten  them  with  the  Russian.  "  I 
shall  tell  the  Russian  to  kill  you  too,"  drawing  his  fingers 
across  his  throat.  But  nobody  understood  what  he  meant 
by  these  words,  fortunately,  for  he  would  repeat  them  in  the 
town  when  he  went  there.  The  higoumen  and  Boicho  paid 
no  heed  to  Mouncho,  who  continued  shaking  his  head  and 
smiling  amiably. 

"  Look  !  there's  the  on-bashi  coming  this  way,"  said  the 
higoumen. 

In  truth,  the  on-bashi  was  approaching  with  his  gun  on 
his  shoulder  and  a  knapsack  slung  round  his  back.  He 
was  going  out  shooting. 

The  on-bashi  was  about  thirty-five  years  of  age,  with  a 
yellow,  bloated  face,  a  high  projecting  forehead,  small  grey 
eyes,  and  an  inert,  sleepy  look.  He  was  evidently  an 
opium-eater.  After  a  few  words  of  greeting  and  a  little 
talk  on  the  prospects  of  sport  that  year,  the  on-bashi  took 
the  higoumen's  rifle,  examined  it  carefully,  as  every  sports- 
man does,  and  said  : 


A  VOICE  FROM  THE  GRAVE  87 

"  That's  a  good  rifle,  your  worship — ^what  are  you  going 
to  fire  at  ?  " 

"  Well,  I  was  just  thinking,  Sherif  Aga.  I  haven't  had  it 
in  my  hand  for  a  year,  and  I  thought  I'd  have  a  shot  this 
morning." 

"  What's  to  be  the  mark  ?  "  asked  the  on-bashi,  eagerly 
taking  his  Martini  from  his  shoulder  and  evidently  desirous 
of  showing  his  skill. 

"  Well,  that  great  thistle  on  the  bank,  near  the  clay-pit 
there,"  said  the  higoumen. 

The  on-bashi  looked  surprised. 

"  That's  a  very  long  way  off,"  he  said  :  however,  he 
walked  to  a  rock  in  the  field,  steadied  his  rifle  on  it,  aimed 
for  about  ten  seconds,  and  fired.  The  bullet  struck  some 
paces  distant  from  the  mark. 

Sherif  Aga  reddened  and  showed  some  uneasiness. 

"  Let's  have  another  shot,"  he  said,  again  leaning  against 
the  stone  and  aiming  for  nearly  a  minute.  When  the  gun 
went  off  he  rose  and  ran  towards  the  bank,  but  the  thistle 
was  still  towering  above  it. 

"  Confound  the  thing,"  he  said  angrily,  "  it's  no  good 
aiming  at  a  mark  so  far  off.  You  fire  now,  Higoumen 
Effendi,  only  I  warn  you  that  you're  wasting  your  cartridge. 
However,  try  and  hit  the  thistle  !  "  he  added  ironically. 

The  higoumen  raised  his  gun  to  his  shoulder,  ran  his  eye 
along  the  barrel,  and  fired. 

The  weed  had  disappeared. 

"  The  good  old  gun  hasn't  played  me  false,"  said  the 
higoumen. 

"  It's  a  fluke,"  cried  the  on-bashi,  "  try  again." 

The  higoumen  now  aimed  at  the  next  thistle  and  fired. 
The  bullet  again  struck  the  mark.  The  on-bashi  grew  pale 
with  rage  : 

"  Your  eye's  wonderfully  true,  Higoumen  Effendi,  but  I'd 
lay  a  wager  it's  not  a  year  since  you  fired  that  rifle.  Well, 
you  might  give  a  few  lessons  to  these  youngsters  of  yours 
who're  here  firing  all  day  long."  Then  he  added  maficiously, 
"  They  seem  very  excited  about  something.  But  in  the  end 
they'll  get  a  devilish  good  hiding — mark  my  words."  And 
the  on-bashi's  look  became  fiercer  and  more  ominous,  as  he 
turned  to  Ognianoff. 

All  this  time  Mouncho  had  stood  at  a  respectful  distance, 
but  his  features  were  distorted  out  of  all  shape  with  abject 


88  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

terror  accompanied  at  the  same  time  by  bestial  hatred. 
He  now  cast  a  threatening  look  at  the  on-bashi,  gnashing 
his  teeth  and  clenching  his  fists  like  a  man  about  to  attack 
some  one.  The  on-bashi  mechanically  turned  towards  him 
and  glanced  at  him  contemptuously.  The  idiot  thereupon 
became  still  more  fierce  of  aspect,  and  cried,  foaming  with 
rage  : 

"  The  Russian'll  kill  you,  too  !  "  cursing  him  and  his 
mother.  The  on-bashi  understood  a  little  Bulgarian,  but 
could  make  nothing  of  Mouncho's  gibberish. 

"  What's  the  matter  with  the  fool  ?  "  he  asked  of  the 
higoumen. 

"  He  means  no  harm,  poor  fellow  !  " 

"  What's  Mouncho  so  excited  about  now  when  he's  here  ? 
In  town  he's  always  quiet  enough." 

"  WTiy,  every  cock  grows  on  his  own  dunghill  !  " 

Just  then  a  huge  greyhound,  Avith  a  leather  collar  round 
its  neck,  from  which  hung  the  fragments  of  a  leash,  ran 
towards  them  across  the  field. 

They  all  turned  to  look  at  the  dog. 

"  The  dog's  run  away  from  somewhere,"  said  the 
higoumen.     "  There  must  be  some  sportsmen  near." 

Ognianoff  trembled  involuntarily. 

The  hound  had  run  to  the  mill  and  sniffed  at  the  door, 
after  which  it  wandered  round  the  house,  whining  piteously. 

"  Why,  that's  poor  Yemeksiz  Pehli van's  dog  !  "  cried  the 
on-bashi. 

The  dog,  which  Ognianoff  recognised  only  too  well,  was 
wandering  round  and  round  the  mill,  sniffing  suspiciously, 
and  every  now  and  then  scratching  with  its  paws.  Finally, 
it  raised  its  head  in  the  air  and  began  to  howl  piteously. 
The  sound  struck  on  Ognianoff 's  ear  like  a  knell.  He 
glanced  anxiously  at  the  higoumen.  The  on-bashi  watched 
the  scene  with  surprise,  and  his  face  was  expressive  of  doubt 
and  suspicion. 

Suddenly  the  dog  rushed  at  Ognianoff.  He  recoiled, 
growing  deadly  pale.  The  dog  made  a  wild  spring  at  him, 
growling  desperately. 

He  drew  his  knife  mechanically  to  defend  himself  against 
the  infuriated  animal,  which  the  higoumen  was  unsuccess- 
fully trying  to  frighten  away. 

The  on-bashi  watched  the  scene  in  silence,  casting 
suspicious  and  evil  glances  at  Ognianoff  and  his  glittering 


A  VOICE  FROM  THE  GRAVE  89 

knife.  But  seeing  that  Ognianoff  would  perhaps  in  seK- 
defence  wound  the  dog,  he  interposed  and  drove  it  away. 
Then  he  turned  to  Ognianoff,  w^ho  was  red  and  heated  by 
his  efforts  and  anxiety. 

"  That's  odd  !  How  comes  this  dog  to  be  so  furious 
against  you  ?  " 

"  I  think  I  must  have  hit  it  with  a  stone  once,"  replied 
Ognianoff  with  assumed  unconcern. 

The  on-bashi  looked  at  him  incredulously  and  inquisi- 
tively. He  was  evidently  not  satisfied  with  the  reply.  An 
undefined  suspicion  formed  in  his  mind.  But  he  deter- 
mined to  look  into  the  matter,  and,  in  order  to  show  that  he 
thought  Ognianoff's  answer  quite  satisfactory,  added  : 
"  That  breed  of  dog  is  very  vindictive."  He  saluted  the 
higoumen  and  proceeded  on  his  way,  soon  disappearing  in 
the  Balkan  ridge. 

The  greyhound  was  already  beyond  the  field  on  its  way  to 
rejoin  its  new  master. 

"  Didn't  you  kill  the  brute  ?  "  asked  the  higoumen. 

"  I  threw  it  half  dead  into  the  stream  to  drown,  but  here 
it  is  alive  again,  w^orse  luck,"  muttered  Ognianoff,  angrily. 
"  Old  Stoyan  was  quite  right  in  saying  we  ought  to  have 
buried  it  with  the  other  two  dogs.  Just  my  luck  for  that 
lout  of  a  Sherif  to  come  to  this  very  spot,  too.  Trouble 
comes  when  you  least  expect  it." 

"  Are  you  sure  you  killed  them  thoroughly,  and  that  they 
won't  rise  again  like  the  dog  ?  "  asked  the  higoumen 
severely.  "  When  a  man  undertakes  a  business  of  this  kind 
he  ought  to  carry  it  out  to  the  bitter  end,  and  leave  nothing 
undone.  You're  a  novice  at  the  trade  as  yet,  Boicho. 
However,  there's  no  cause  for  dismay.  The  rumour  we 
spread  at  the  time  calmed  people  down.  But  I  shall  keep 
my  eyes  open." 

Meanwhile  Ognianoff  was  carefully  inspecting  the  place 
where  the  two  Turks  were  buried.  To  his  surprise  he  saw 
that  a  considerable  heap  of  stones  was  now  on  it.  Neither 
he  nor  the  miller  Stoyan  had  put  the  stones  there.  He 
expressed  his  astonishment  to  the  higoumen,  who  tried  to 
calm  him  by  suggesting  that  they  had  probably  been  put 
there  by  chance.  They  did  not  know  that  Mouncho  went 
there  every  day,  stone  in  hand,  to  fling  at  the  grave  of  the 
Turks,  so  much  so  that  quite  a  heap  had  by  this  time  been 
raised  there. 


90  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

Ognianoff  stretched  out  his  hand.  "  Where  are  you 
going  ?  " 

"  Good-bye,  I'm  in  a  hurry  ;  I've  a  lot  to  do  for  these 
theatricals — that  infernal  dog  has  driven  my  part  clean  out 
of  my  head." 

"  What  part  are  you  taking  ?  " 

"  The  Count." 

"  The  Count — and  what  are  you  Count  of,  I  should  like 
to  know  ?  "  asked  the  higoumen  in  jest. 

"  The  Castle  of  Diarbekir — which  I'm  ready  to  make  a 
present  of  to  any  one  who  likes." 

And  Ognianoff  went  on  his  way.     - 

CHAPTER  XVI :    THE  THEATRICALS 

The  drama  "  Suffering  Genevieve,"  which  was  to  be  given 
that  evening  at  the  boys'  school,  is  probably  unknown  to 
the  youth  of  the  present  generation.  But  thirty  years  ago 
it  had  acquired  the  most  extensive  popularity  and  enchanted 
the  whole  population  of  the  day  ;  its  only  rivals  in  the 
public  favour  were  "  Alexandra,"  "  Berthold  the  Wily,"  and 
"  Michaela."  The  plot  is,  in  a  few  words,  as  follows  :  A 
certain  German  count,  Siegfried,  goes  to  the  wars  against 
the  Moors  in  Spain,  and  leaves  his  wife,  the  youthful 
Countess  Genevieve,  inconsolable  in  her  grief.  No  sooner 
has  he  gone  than  his  steward,  Golos,  appears  before  the 
Countess  with  insulting  proposals,  which  she  rejects  with 
scorn.  The  vindictive  Golos  then  slays  her  faithful  attend- 
ant, Drako,  and  throws  her  into  a  dungeon  :  at  the  same 
time  he  informs  the  Count  that  he  has  surprised  the  Countess 
in  a  guilty  intrigue  with  Drako.  The  Count's  anger  knows 
no  bounds  :  he  sends  orders  to  put  his  faithless  spouse  to 
death.  But  the  ruffians  whom  Golos  has  charged  with  this 
duty  take  pity  on  the  Countess  and  leave  her  to  her  fate, 
with  her  child,  in  a  mountain  cave,  falsely  assuring  Golos 
that  his  orders  have  been  carried  out.  Seven  years  elapse. 
The  Count  returns  from  the  wars,  heart-broken  :  in  his 
castle  he  finds  a  letter  left  for  him  by  Genevieve,  establish- 
ing clearly  her  innocence  :  he  can  but  weep  over  her  un- 
timely death.  Golos  is  loaded  with  chains,  and  loses  his 
reason  under  the  stings  of  conscience.  Soon  the  Count 
proceeds  to  the  chase  for  recreation,  and  by  chance  comes 
upon  the  Countess  in  her  cave,  together  with  her  child  and 


THE  THEATRICALS  91 

a  doe  who  has  nourished  them  with  her  milk.  All  become 
reconciled  and  return  joyfully  to  the  castle.  This  naive 
and  moving  conception  has  at  various  times  brought  tears 
to  the  cheeks  of  every  old  woman  and  young  bride  in 
Bulgaria.  At  the  time  the  scene  of  this  story  is  laid,  every 
one  knew  the  plot,  and  many  had  the  whole  play  by  heart. 

This  is  why  the  forthcoming  representation  had  caused 
such  excitement  among  the  townspeople.  It  was  impa- 
tiently awaited  as  a  great  event,  which  would  be  a  pleasant 
change  in  the  monotonous  life  of  Bela  Cherkva.  Every- 
body was  looking  forward  to  it.  The  richer  housewives  had 
got  out  their  best  finery,  the  poorer  had  sold  their  yarn 
in  the  market  and  at  once  invested  the  proceeds  in  tickets, 
instead  of  making  their  usual  purchases  of  salt  or  soap. 
Nothing  but  the  theatricals  was  talked  of  at  family  and 
social  gatherings.  Old  women  asked  each  other  at  church, 
"  Ghena,  are  you  going  to  '  Genevieve '  to-night  ?  "  and  pre- 
pared to  weep  over  the  long-suffering  Countess.  At  home 
the  conversation  ran  on  the  names  of  the  actors  who  had 
taken  the  various  parts — universal  satisfaction  was  ex- 
pressed when  Ognianoff  was  cast  for  the  Count.  The  wily 
Golos,  who  eventually  goes  mad,  was  to  be  played  by  Fratio, 
who  was  fond  of  emotional  parts  (in  order  to  increase  the 
effect  Fratio  had  let  his  hair  grow  for  a  month).  Ilia  the 
Inquisitive  was  the  servant,  Drako,  and  rehearsed  twenty 
times  a  day  how  he  should  fall  when  Golos  pierces  him  with 
his  sword.  He  was  also  to  bark  later  on  in  the  piece  as  the 
Count's  dog  :  and  practised  this  part  with  equal  assiduity. 
For  Genevieve  Deacon  Vikenti  had  at  first  been  suggested, 
on  account  of  his  good  looks  and  long  hair  ;  but  it  was 
thought  unsuitable  for  a  person  in  holy  orders  to  take  part 
in  the  piece,  and  the  role  was  given  to  another,  together  with 
a  pot  of  white  pomatum  to  cover  his  moustache.  The 
secondary  parts  were  also  distributed. 

A  greater  difficulty  was  presented  by  the  decorations, 
which  had  to  be  provided  as  economically  as  possible.  The 
only  outlay  was  for  a  curtain  :  for  this  a  piece  of  red  stuff 
was  purchased,  and  to  make  it  look  more  artistic  a  house- 
painter  from  Debra  was  commissioned  to  paint  a  lyre  on 
it :  he,  however,  produced  something  which  looked  more 
like  a  haymaker's  fork  than  anything  else.  For  the  decora- 
tions of  the  Count's  castle  all  the  best  furniture  in  the  town 
was  laid  under  contribution.    Hajji  Ghiouro  supplied  his 


92  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

lace  curtains  for  the  windows  ;  Karaghieuz  Oghlou  lent  two 
Persian  rugs  ;  JMicho  Beyzade  his  handsome  glass  vases  ; 
Micho  SaranofP  a  large  carpet ;  Nikola  Netkovitch  prints  of 
the  Franco- Prussian  war  ;  Bencho  Oghlou  a  worn-out  old 
sofa — the  only  one  in  the  place  ;  Marko  Ivanoff  a  large 
mirror  and  the  picture  of  the  "  Martyrs  "  ;  the  convent  lent 
its  embroidered  cushions  ;  the  school  a  map  of  Australia  and 
the  globe  ;  the  church  its  small  chandelier,  which  sufficed 
to  illuminate  the  stage,  spectators  and  all.  Even  the  prison 
of  the  Konak  supplied  the  fetters  for  Golos.  As  for  the 
costumes,  they  were  the  same  that  had  been  worn  three 
years  before  when  "  Princess  Raina  "  had  been  given.  Thus 
the  Count  wore  Svatoslav's  clothes,  and  Genevieve  Raina's. 
Golos  added  a  few  extra  ornaments,  such  as  epaulets  and 
high  patent  leather  boots.  Gancho  Popoff,  who  acted 
Huns  (one  of  the  two  ruffians),  carried  the  long  knife  he  had 
prepared  against  the  rebellion.  Drako  proudly  donned 
Mikhalaki  Alafranga's  tall  silk  hat,  somewhat  battered 
though  it  was.  In  vain  Bo'icho  protested  against  this  as  an 
anachronism.  Most  of  the  actors  insisted  that  the  scene 
would  be  more  effective,  and  it  was  allowed  to  pass  in  spite 
of  his  objections. 

The  theatre  began  to  fill  at  sunset.  The  front  rows  were 
reserved  for  the  notabilities,  including  the  Bey,  who  had 
been  specially  invited.  At  his  side  sat  Damiancho  Grigoroff, 
who  had  been  put  there  to  amuse  him.  The  general  public 
filled  the  rest  of  the  room,  and  soon  began  to  clamour 
eagerly  for  the  curtain  to  rise.  The  noisiest  of  all  was 
Mother  Ghinka,  who  knew  the  play  by  heart,  and  was 
telling  her  neighbours  right  and  left  all  about  it,  and  what 
were  the  first  words  the  Count  had  to  say.  Hajji  Simeon, 
in  the  next  row,  was  explaining  how  much  larger  the 
Bucharest  theatre  was,  and  what  was  the  meaning  of  the 
pitchfork  on  the  curtain.  The  orchestra  consisted  of  the 
local  gipsy  musicians,  who  played  chiefly  the  Austrian 
National  Anthem,  doubtless  in  honour  of  the  German 
Countess. 

At  last  the  solemn  moment  arrived.  The  Austrian  hymn 
ceased,  and  the  curtain  rose  amid  murmurs  of  admiration. 
The  first  to  appear  was  the  Count.  Perfect  silence  ensued. 
One  would  have  thought  the  theatre  was  empty.  The  Count 
"began  to  speak,  and  Mother  Ghinka  prompted  him  from  in 
front.    Whenever  the  Count  left  out  or  altered  a  word,  she 


THE  THEATRICALS  93 

cried,  "  That's  wrong  !  "  A  trumpet  sounds,  and  the  envoys 
of  Charlemagne  enter  and  summon  him  to  the  Moorish  wars. 
The  Count  takes  an  affectionate  farewell  of  Genevieve,  who 
falls  fainting,  and  goes  out.  When  she  recovers  her  con- 
sciousness and  finds  the  Count  gone,  she  weeps.  The  weep- 
ing aroused  general  hilarity.  Mother  Ghinka  screamed, 
"  Cry,  you  booby,  can't  you  ?  "  The  Countess  groaned  still 
louder,  and  the  audience  answered  with  loud  laughter. 
Mother  Ghinka  cries,  "  Let  me  come  there,  and  I'll  cry  for 
you  something  like  !  "  Hajji  Simeon  remarks  to  the 
audience  that  crying  is  a  special  art,  ai^d  that  in  Roumauia 
women  are  hired  specially  to  cry  at  funerals.  Some  one 
shouts  to  him  to  be  still,  and  he  motions  in  turn  to  his 
listeners  to  be  silent.  But  the  appearance  of  Golos  changes 
the  situation.  He  tries  to  tempt  Genevieve's  chastity,  but 
she  replies  to  his  offers  with  disdain,  and  calls  for  Drako  to 
send  him  with  a  letter  to  the  Count.  Drako  appears,  and 
there  is  a  general  roar  of  laughter  at  his  tall  hat,  which  con- 
fuses him.  Mother  Ghinka  calls  out,  "  Drako,  take  off 
Alafranga's  saucepan — off  with  it,  man  !  "  He  takes  off  the 
chimney-pot — more  laughter.  But  the  scene  assumes  a 
tragical  character.  The  enraged  Golos  draws  his  sword  to 
run  Drako  through,  but  before  he  stabs  him  Drako  falls  like 
a  log  to  the  ground,  and  remains  motionless.  The  audience 
is  dissatisfied  with  this  foolish  kind  of  death,  and  some 
clamour  for  Drako  to  get  up  and  go  through  it  again. 
Servants  come  in  and  drag  him  away  by  the  feet,  bumping 
his  head  along  the  ground.  But  Drako  bears  his  pain 
heroically,  and  remams  true  to  his  part  as  a  corpse.  The 
Countess  is  flung  into  a  dungeon. 

The  act  ends,  and  the  Austrian  hymn  begins  afresh.  The 
room  resounds  with  laughter  and  criticisms.  The  old  women 
are  dissatisfied  with  Genevieve,  whose  acting  is  not  pathetic 
enough  ;  on  the  contrary,  Golos  had  acted  his  ungrateful 
part  fairly  well,  and  had  reaped  the  deserved  hatred  of 
several  old  grandmothers.  One  of  them  called  to  his 
mother,  "  My  word,  Tana,  fine  doings  your  Fratio's  been  up 
to  !     Whatever  has  that  poor  girl  done  to  him  ?  " 

In  the  front  row  Damiancho  Grigoroff  was  explaining 
quietly  to  the  Bey  the  plot  of  the  first  act.  He  surpassed 
himself  in  eloquence,  telling  a  long  story  of  some  French 
Consul  whom  he  had  once  known,  and  who  had  repudiated 
his  wife  through  a  similar  intrigue.     The  Bey  listened  atten- 


94  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

lively,  and  the  upshot  was  that  he  became  convinced  that 
the  Count  was  the  French  Consul,  and  considered  him  as 
such  ever  after. 

"  This  consul  seems  to  me  to  be  a  great  fool,"  he  said 
sternly,  "  or  else  why  does  he  order  his  wife  to  be  killed 
without  even  cross-examining  her  ?  Why,  I  never  have  a 
street  drunkard  put  in  gaol  without  making  Maikhl  the 
constable  smell  his  breath  first." 

"  But  it's  written  like  that  on  purpose,  Bey  Effendi,  to 
make  it  more  interesting,"  said  Damiancho. 

"  Well,  sir,  the  author's  a  fool,  and  the  consul  a  still 
greater  one." 

Close  by  Stefchoff  was  also  criticising  the  Count. 

"  It's  pretty  plain,"  said  he  pompously  and  authorita- 
tively, "that  Ognianoff  never  saw  a  theatre  before  in  his  life." 

"  Why  not  ?  He  acts  well  enough,"  ventured  Hajji 
Simeon. 

"  Acts  well ! — ^he  acts  Hke  a  monkey  ;  doesn't  pay  the 
slightest  respect  to  the  audience." 

"  No  ;  that's  true  enough,  he  doesn't.  Did  you  see  how 
he  sat  down  on  that  sofa  of  Bencho  Oghlou's  ?  One  would 
think  he  was  own  brother  to  Prince  Couza,"  said  Hajji 
Simeon  severely. 

"  We  must  hiss  him,"  said  Stefchoff,  spitefully. 

"  Yes,  we  must,"  concurred  Hajji  Simeon. 

"  Who's  going  to  hiss  ?  "  asked  some  one  in  the  same 
row.     Both  turned  round.     It  was  Kableshkoff. 

Kableshkoff  had  not  yet  become  an  "  apostle."  He 
happened  to  be  on  a  visit  to  a  relative  at  Bela  Cherkva. 

Hajji  Simeon  was  dismayed  by  the  fiery  look  of  the  future 
*'  apostle  "  ;  he  recoiled  a  little,  so  as  to  allow  the  real 
culprit,  Stefchoff,  to  appear. 

"  I  am,"  answered  Kiriak,  boldly. 

"  You're  at  liberty  to  do  so,  sir,  but  you'll  go  out  into  the 
street  first." 

"  And  who  asked  your  leave,  I  should  like  to  know  ?  " 

"  This  performance  is  given  for  a  charitable  purpose,  and 
the  actors  are  amateurs.  If  you  can  do  it  any  better  go  on 
the  stage  and  try,"  said  Kableshkoff,  warmly. 

"  I've  paid  for  my  seat,  and  don't  require  any  advice 
from  you,"  replied  Stefchoff. 

Kableshkoff  flamed  up.  The  quarrel  was  taking  an  un- 
pleasant turn,  when  Micho  Beyzade  hurriedly  intervened. 


THE  THEATRICALS  95 

"  Come,  come,  Kiriak,  don't  be  a  fool.  That'll  do, 
Todor." 

Just  then  the  Austrian  hymn  stopped,  and  the  curtain 
rose. 

This  time  the  scene  represented  a  dungeon  lighted  by  a 
single  candle.  Genevieve,  with  her  child  in  her  arms,  be- 
wails her  fate  piteously,  and  weeps.  She  noAv  acts  more 
naturally.  The  midnight  hour,  the  gloomy  cell,  the  sighs 
of  an  unhappy  and  powerless  mother  have  a  powerful  effect 
on  the  spectators.  Tears  trickle  down  many  of  the 
women's  faces.  Tears  are  contagious,  like  laughter.  The 
number  of  those  weeping  increases — even  some  of  the  men 
shed  tears  when  she  wTites  to  the  Count.  Kableshkoif, 
much  moved,  claps  his  hands  at  a  pathetic  passage.  His 
applause,  however,  dies  out  in  the  complete  silence  and 
finds  no  echo.  Indeed  many  an  indignant  look  is  levelled 
at  him  for  his  noisy  interruption  at  the  best  place.  Ivan 
Selamsiz,  who  was  sobbmg  loudly,  gives  him  the  angriest 
glance.  Genevieve  is  carried  off  to  the  forest  for  execution. 
The  curtain  falls.  Kableshkoff  again  applauds,  and  again 
his  example  remains  unimitated.  The  custom  of  clapping 
one's  hands  had  not  yet  been  introduced  at  Bela  Cherkva. 

"  They  seem  a  thorough-paced  set  of  scoundrels  in  that 
country,"  remarked  the  Bey  to  Damiancho.  "  Where  did 
you  sav  all  this  took  place  ?  " 

"  In  Austria." 

"  Austria  ?  I  don't  think  I've  ever  seen  any  of  those 
Ghiaours  yet  ?  " 

"  Oh,  yes,  your  Excellency,  you  must  have.  Why, 
there's  an  Austrian  living  in  the  town  now." 

"  What,  do  you  mean  a  little  fellow,  with  double  whiskers, 
and  blue  spectacles  ?  " 

"  Yes,  sir,  the  photographer." 

"  Oh,  he's  a  good  little  Ghiaour  enough.  He  always 
takes  off  his  hat  to  me,  a  la  franga,  in  the  street.  I  thought 
he  was  a  Frenchman." 

"  No,  sir,  he's  an  Austrian  from  Drandaburg." 

The  third  act  followed.  The  scene  again  represented  the 
castle.  The  Count  has  returned  from  the  wars,  careworn 
and  gloomy  now  Genevieve  is  no  longer  there.  A  servant 
gives  him  Genevieve's  letter  written  in  the  dungeon  at  the 
hour  of  death.  In  it  she  tells  him  that  she  is  the  victim  of 
Golos'  baseness,  that  she  died  innocent,  and  that  she  for- 


96  u:nder  the  yoke 

gives  him .  The  Count  reads  this  letter  aloud — ^he  bursts  into 
despairing  sobs.  The  spectators  share  his  sufferings  :  they 
also  weep,  some  of  them  sobbing  loudly  ;  amongst  these  is 
the  Bey,  who  requires  no  Damiancho  to  explain  the  scene  to 
him.  The  general  effect  on  the  audience  is  heightened  still 
more  when  the  Count  orders  the  treacherous  Golos — the 
author  of  all  his  misfortune — to  be  brought  in.  Golos 
appears,  ragged,  repulsive,  tortured  by  remorse,  and  loaded 
with  chains,  from  the  Konak  prison.  A  hostile  murmur 
from  the  spectators  greets  him.  Fierce  glances  are  cast 
upon  him.  The  Count  reads  to  him  the  letter  in  which  the 
Countess  forgives  him  too.  The  Count  groans,  tears  his 
hair,  beats  his  breast ;  the  audience  cannot  restrain  its 
emotion  ;  even  Mother  Ghinka  is  in  tears,  but  she  tries  to 
console  the  others  by  exclaiming  : 

"  Don't  cry,  good  people,  Genevieve's  safe  in  the  forest." 

Some  old  ladies  who  don't  know  the  piece  show  eager 
surprise. 

"  Is  she  really  safe,  Ghinka  ?     Then,  for  pity's  sake,  tell 
the  poor  fellow  to  stop  crying,"  said  grandmother  Netko- 
vitsa  ;  and  mother  Hajji  Pavlovitsa  cannot  restrain  herself, 
but  calls  out  amid  her  tears  to  the  Count  : 
-    "  Don't  cry,  my  lad,  don't  cry,  the  girl's  not  dead." 

Meanwhile,  Golos  goes  mad.  He  looks  round  him 
strangely,  with  staring  eyes  and  dishevelled  hair,  beckons 
wildly  and  gnashes  his  teeth  in  despair.  His  conscience  has 
driven  him  out  of  his  senses  :  but  his  sufferings  are  a  relief 
to  the  spectators.  A  malicious  satisfaction  appears  on 
many  faces.  "  Serve  him  right,"  cry  the  women.  They 
are  even  angry  with  Genevieve  for  forgiving  him  in  her 
letter.  Fratio's  mother,  seeing  her  son  in  that  desperate 
state,  crushed  simultaneously  by  the  weight  of  his  fetters 
and  of  public  detestation,  lost  her  own  self-control : 

"  They've  destroyed  my  son,"  she  cried,  "  they've  driven 
him  out  of  his  senses."  And  she  was  on  the  point  of 
rushing  on  to  the  stage,  but  her  neighbours  held  her 
back. 

The  act  was  a  brilliant  success.  Shakespeare's  Ophelia 
never  called  forth  so  many  tears  in  one  evening. 

The  last  act  is  in  the  forest.  A  cave  is  seen.  At  its 
mouth  appears  Genevieve,  dressed  in  the  skins  of  animals, 
with  her  child.  A  goat,  for  whom  dried  leaves  had  been 
provided  so  that  it  should  not  run  away,  represented  the  doe 


THE  THEATRICALS  97 

who  was  supposed  to  feed  them  with  her  milk.  Genevieve 
sadly  talks  to  her  child  of  its  father,  but  hearing  the  bay  of 
a  hound  retires  hurriedly  into  the  cave,  dragging  in  by  the 
horns  the  goat,  which  resists  vigorously.  The  barking  grows 
louder,  and  the  audience  is  of  opinion  that  Ilia  the  Inquisi- 
tive is  more  successful  in  that  part.  He  barks  so  energeti- 
cally that  he  arouses  a  reply  from  some  of  the  street-dogs  V 
outside.  Upon  this  the  Count  appears  in  hunting  costume, 
with  his  train  of  huntsmen.  The  spectators  hold  their 
breath  :  they  are  eagerly  waiting  to  see  his  meeting  with 
Genevieve.  Mother  Ivanitsa  begins  to  be  afraid  lest  he 
should  pass  by  the  cave  and  suggests  that  he  should  be  told 
that  his  wife  is  in  there.  But  the  Count  has  seen  it.  He 
stoops  at  the  mouth  of  the  cave,  and  exclaims  : 

"  Come  forth,  I  charge  ye,  be  ye  man  or  beast !  " 

The  reply  came,  however,  not  from  the  cave,  but  from  the 
audience,  in  the  shape  of  a  loud  hiss. 

Every  one  turned  in  surprise  to\^'ards  Stefchoff ,  who  had 
become  very  red. 

"  Who's  that  hissing  ?  "  asked  Selamsiz,  angrily.  The 
audience  murmured  dissatisfied. 

Ognianoff  was  trying  to  see  who  it  was  who  had  hissed. 
When  he  saw  Stefchoff,  who  met  his  glance  without 
flinching,  he  whispered  to  him  : 

"  I'll  pull  your  long  ears  for  you  presently." 

Then  came  a  fresh  hiss,  still  louder.  The  audience  was  be- 
coming excited  ;  the  dissatisfaction  increased  every  minute. 

"  Let's  catch  hold  of  this  fellow,  and  I'll  throw  him  out 
of  the  window,"  roared  Anghel  Yovkoff,  a  giant  seven  feet 
in  height.  And  shouts  were  heard  :  "  Turn  him  out !  Go 
out,  Stefchoff." 

"  We  haven't  come  here  to  listen  to  clappings  and  hiss- 
ings," cried  Selamsiz,  who  had  misunderstood  Kableshkoff's 
applause  just  before. 

"  Kiriak,  be  quiet,"  cried  even  Mother  Ghinka  angrily,  as 
Rada  sat  by  her  side  in  tears. 

Hajji  Simeon  whispered  to  Stefchoff  : 

"  Kiriak,  didn't  I  tell  you  just  now  not  to  hiss  ;  don't  you 
see  they're  common  people  and  don't  understand  ?  " 

"  What's  the  gentleman  hissing  for  ?  "  asked  the  Bey  of 
Damiancho. 

Damiancho  shrugged  his  shoulders  ;  the  Bey  whispered 
to  a  zaptie,  who  went  straight  to  Stefchoff  :    "  Kiriak,"  he 


98  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

said  quietly,  "  the  Bey  thinks  as  you  don't  seem  comfort- 
able, you'd  better  go  and  smoke  a  cigarette  outside." 

Stefchoff  rose  and  went  out  with  a  bitter  smile,  delighted 
at  having  spoilt  the  effect  of  Ognianoff's  act. 

The  tumult  at  once  ceased.  The  play  proceeds.  The 
Count  discovers  his  long-lost  Countess  ;  they  embrace — 
more  sobs  and  tears.  The  spectators  recover  their  spirits. 
Virtue's  triumph  over  wickedness  is  complete.  The  Count 
and  the  Countess  relate  to  one  another  their  past  sorrows 
and  their  present  joys.  Mother  Petkovitska  advises  them  : 
"  Go  home,  dears,  and  be  happy  together,  and  don't  trust 
these  confounded  Goloses " 

"  Confound  you  yourself,"  cried  Fratio's  mother  to  her, 
infuriated  at  this  abuse  of  her  son. 

The  Bey  gave  the  same  advice  as  Mother  Petkovitsa,  only 
in  a  lower  tone.  The  general  feeling  was  one  of  pleasure 
and  satisfaction.  The  piece  terminated  with  a  song,  in 
which  the  Count,  Countess  and  their  suite  take  part — 
"  Count  Siegfried,  now  rejoice  in  peace." 

Bat  after  the  first  two  stanzas  of  the  song  had  been  gone 
through,  suddenly  on  the  stage  broke  out  the  revolutionary 
song  :  * 

Blaze  forth,  fond  love  of  fatherland. 
Till  'gainst  the  Turk  arrayed  we  stand  ! 

u  The  sound  fell  like  a  thunderbolt  upon  the  audience. 

At  first  only  one  voice  had  begun,  one  by  one  the  whole 
troupe  joined  in,  and  it  spread  gradually  till  the  entire 
audience  took  it  up.  A  sudden  and  patriotic  enthusiasm 
filled  all  those  present.  The  bold  and  stirring  air  spread 
like  some  unseen  wave,  filled  the  hall,  passed  the  threshold, 
and  was  wafted  abroad  into  the  night :  it  overcame  every 
other  sound,  and  sent  a  hot  and  fiery  emotion  through  the 
blood.  Its  powerful  notes  awoke  a  new  chord  iii  the 
audience.  Every  one  who  knew  the  song  sang  it  in  chorus 
— ^men  and  women.  It  drew  all  hearts  with  it,  united  the 
actors  and  the  audieuce,  and  rose  to  heaven  like  a  prayer. 

"  Suig  out,  boys.  God  bless  you  !  Sing  out !  "  cried 
Micho. 

*  In  this  and  succeeding  metrical  versions,  the  metre  of  the  original 
has  been  followed  as  closely  as  possible,  and  wherever  the  Bulgarian 
lines  are  in  rhyme,  an  attempt  has  been  made  to  imitate  them  in  the 
English  rendering. 


THE  THEATRICALS  99 

But  some  of  the  older  people  present  murmured,  con- 
sidering this  foolish  excitement  misplaced. 

Even  the  Bey,  who  did  not  understand  a  word  of  the  song, 
listened  to  it  delightedly.  He  asked  Damiancho  Grigoroff 
to  interpret  it  to  him  one  line  after  another.  Any  one  else 
would  have  lost  his  head.  But  Damiancho  was  not  a  man 
to  be  puzzled  by  a  difficult  question.  Besides,  this  was  an 
opportunity  for  him  to  exhibit  his  powers.  He  explained  it 
all  to  the  Bey  with  an  air  of  the  greatest  simplicity  and 
veracity.  The  song,  he  said,  expressed  the  ardent  love  the 
Count  and  Countess  felt  for  one  another.  The  Count  says 
to  her,  "Hove you  a  hundred  times  more  than  before  "  ;  to 
which  she  replies,  "  And  I  love  you  a  thousand  times  more." 
He  says  he  will  build  a  church  on  the  spot  where  the  cave 
is  ;  and  she  vows  to  sell  all  her  diamonds  and  dispose  of  the 
proceeds  by  building  a  hundred  marble  fountains. 

"  That  seems  a  great  many  fountains,"  said  the  Bey. 
"  I  should  think  a  few  bridges  would  have  been  more 
useful." 

"  You  see,  sir,  water  is  scarce  in  Austria  ;  that's  why 
people  drink  so  much  beer  there,"  answered  Grigoroff. 

The  Bey  nodded  approvingly  at  this  reply. 

"  But  where  is  Golos  ?  "  asked  the  Bey,  as  he  looked  in 
vain  for  Eratio  among  the  actors. 

"  He  doesn't  come  on  any  more,  sir." 

*'  Quite  right ;  they  ought  to  hang  the  scoundrel.  If 
they  ever  act  this  piece  again,  you  tell  the  Consul  not  to 
leave  him  alive — that'll  serve  him  right." 

And  in  truth  Fratio  was  not  among  his  colleagues.  He 
had  discreetly  withdrawn  when  the  seditious  song  began, 
not  being  desirous  of  the  applause  of  the  public. 

The  song  came  to  an  end,  and  the  curtain  fell  amid  cries 
of  "  Bravo  !  "  The  Austrian  hymn  began  again,  and 
played  the  spectators  out.     The  room  was  soon  empty. 

The  actors  changed  their  clothes  behind  the  scenes,  and 
conversed  gaily  with  the  friends  who  had  come  to  con-' 
gratulate  them. 

"  Deuce  take  you,  Kableshkoff  !  What  a  fellow  you  are  ! 
What  made  you  do  it  ?  You  suddenly  appeared  behind  my 
back,  and  began  to  roar  the  song  out  like  a  bull.  You're 
as  reckless  as  a  gipsy  !  "  said  Ognianoff,  taking  off  Prince 
Svatoslav's  boots. 

"  I  couldn't  restrain  myself,  my  boy.    I  was  sick  of  all 


100  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

this  sobbing  and  all  the  women's  wailing  over  your  '  long- 
suffering  '  wife.  Something  stirring  was  needed,  and  I 
think  I  gave  it  them  !  " 

"  I  was  expecting  every  moment  to  be  tapped  on  the 
shoulder  by  a  zap  tie,"  laughed  Ognianoff. 

"  Don't  be  afraid  ;  Stefchoff  went  off  long  before,"  said 
Sokoloff. 

"  The  Bey  turned  him  out,"  said  the  teacher  Frangoff. 

"  But  the  Bey  was  there  himself,"  said  others.  "  I  saw 
him  listening  very  attentively.  There'll  be  the  devil  to  pay 
to-morrow." 

"  Don't  you  bother  about  him.  Wasn't  Damiancho 
Grigoroff  sitting  next  to  him  ?  He'll  have  made  things  all 
right,  or  I'll  never  call  him  a  diplomat  again." 

"  I  had  him  put  next  the  Bey  on  purpose  to  tell  him 
stories.  Don't  you  bother  about  him,"  remarked  Nikolai 
Netkovitch,  as  he  took  off  Pope  Dimcho's  gown,  in  which 
he  had  played  the  part  of  Genevieve's  father. 

But  he  had  not  reckoned  on  treachery.  Next  morning 
Ognianoff  was  summoned  to  the  Konak. 

He  found  the  Bey  in  an  angry  mood. 

*'  Konsoloss  Effendi,"  said  he,  "  did  you  or  did  you  not 
sing  a  seditious  song  last  night  ?  " 

Ognianoff  protested  his  innocence. 

"  But  the  on-bashi  assures  me  you  did." 

"  He  is  misinformed,  sir  ;   you  were  there  yourself." 

The  Bey  sent  for  the  on-bashi. 

"  Sherif  Aga,  when  w^as  this  song  sung — ^in  my  presence 
or  after  I  had  gone  ?  " 

"  The  revolutionary  song  was  sung  in  your  presence,  Bey 
Effendi.  Kiriak  Effendi  isn't  likely  to  have  told  a  lie 
about  it." 

The  Bey  looked  at  him  angrily  :  his  vanity  was  wounded. 

"  What  rubbish  you  talk,  Sherif  Aga  !  Was  I  there  or 
Kiriak  ?  Didn't  I  Jdear  it  with  my  own  ears  ?  Damiancho 
translated  the  song  to  me  word  for  word,  and  I  talked  about 
it  afterwards  to  Marko  Chorbaji,  who  said  the  singing  was 
first-rate.  Don't  let  this  kind  of  thing  occur  again,"  said 
the  Bey,  sternly.  Then  turning  to  Ognianoff,  "  Consul,  I'm 
sorry  to  have  troubled  you  ;  it  was  all  a  mistake.  Ah  !  wait 
a  moment.  What  do  you  call  that  fellow — ^the  one  in 
chains,  I  mean  ?  " 

"  Golos." 


TWO  STROKES  OF  LUCK  101 

"  Ah,  yes  !  Golos.  You'd  have  done  better  to  have  given 
orders  to  hang  him.  That's  what  I'd  have  done.  Never 
listen  to  women's  advice.  But  the  play  was  very  good 
indeed,  and  the  song  was  the  best  part  of  it,"  said  the  Bey, 
still  sore  on  the  point. 

Ognianoff  saluted  and  went  out. 

"  You'll  be  hearing  another  kind  of  song  one  of  these 
days,"  he  thought  to  himself  as  he  went  out  of  the  room  ; 
"  and  you  won't  want  Damiancho  to  translate  it  for  you." 

But  he  did  not  notice  the  ominous  glance  cast  at  him  by 
the  on-bashi  as  he  passed  out. 

CHAPTER  XVII :  TWO  STROKES. OF:  XTjC!K  ;  •' 
The  next  day  was  a  saint's  day.  The  higoumen  Natanail 
was  standing  on  one  side  of  the  chancel,  near  the  pulpit, 
chanting  the  canticle.  Suddenly  he  felt  some  one  plucking 
his  sleeve ;  he  turned  round  and  saw  Mouncho  standing  by 
him. 

The  higoumen  gave  him  a  severe  look. 

"  What  do  you  want,  Mouncho  ?  Be  ofiP  with  you,"  he 
said  angrily  and  resumed  the  canticle. 

But  Mouncho  again  pulled  at  his  sleeve  vigorously  and 
would  not  let  go.  He  turned  round  once  more,  and  saw  to 
his  surprise  that  Mouncho  was  in  a  state  of  great  excite- 
ment :  his  eyes  were  staring  with  a  look  of  terror  and  he 
was  trembling  from  head  to  foot. 

"  Well — what  is  it,  Mouncho  ?  "  the  higoumen  asked 
sternly. 

Mouncho  nodded  frantically,  opened  his  eyes  still  wider, 
drew  himseK  up,  and  exclaimed  wildly  : 

"  The  Russian — at  the  mill — Turks  !  "  and  instead  of 
continuing  he  moved  his  arms  to  imitate  the  action  of 
digging. 

The  higoumen  stared  at  him  in  bewilderment :  suddenly 
the  truth  flashed  upon  him  with  lightning  rapidity.  Moun- 
cho must  have  had  some  inkling  of  what  there  was  buried 
near  the  mill :  indeed,  as  he  mentioned  the  "  Russian,"  it 
seemed  that  he  knew  the  whole  secret.  How  ?  The 
higoumen  could  not  even  guess  :  it  was  enough  for  him  to 
know  that  the  secret  was  £10 wn  to  the  authorities. 

"  Boicho  is  done  for  !  "  muttered  Natanail  in  despair, 
forgetting  the  canticle  and  the  whole  service,  and  not  seeing 


102  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

the  desperate  signs  !Father  Gedeon  was  making  to  him  from 
the  opposite  pulpit  to  tell  him  that  it  was  his  turn  to  go  on. 
Natanail  cast  a  glance  at  the  altar  where  Vikenti  was  busy 
mth  the  liturgy,  signed  to  Father  Gedeon  to  finish  the 
canticle  as  best  he  could,  and  hurried  from  the  church.  In 
one  moment  he  was  in  the  stable,  in  another  he  was 
galloping  like  wildfire  to  the  town. 

It  was  a  bitterly  cold  morning.  There  had  been  a  sharp 
white  frost  during  the  night,  and  grass  and  trees  sparkled 
with  rime.  The.  higoumen  spurred  on  his  fat  little  black 
horse  'mercileijjsly  J  he  was  hurrying  to  save  Ognianoff  if 
there  was  yet  lime.  He  Jmew  that  the  rumours  which  had 
b^^  spread  Ut'ihe  Ume  had  allayed  all  suspicion  as  to  the 
disappearance  of'  the  tw6  Turks.  Who,  therefore,  could 
now  have  stimulated  to  action  the  apathetic  chief  of  the 
police  ?  Undoubtedly  some  traitor.  But  who  could  it 
have  been  ?  He  did  not  believe  it  could  have  been 
Mouncho,  even  if  Mouncho  knew  the  secret.  He  knew  how 
the  idiot  idolised  Ognianoff — ^he  might  have  betrayed  him 
unwittingly  ;  but  there  must  have  been  treachery.  And 
the  consequences  to  Ognianoff  would  be  terrible. 

In  four  minutes  he  had  covered  the  distance  which 
usually  took  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  from  the  monastery  to 
the  town.  Hishorse  was  white  with  foam.  He  left  him  on 
the  way  at  his  brother's  house  and  hurried  on  foot  to 
Ognianoff 's  lodgings. 

"  Is  Boicho  here  ?  "  he  asked,  anxiously. 

"  No,  he's  gone  out.  Three  zap  ties  have  just  been  here 
to  look  for  him  and  searched  every  comer  of  the  house. 
What  do  the  brutes  want  of  him  ? — one  would  think  he'd 
committed  a  murder,"  grumbled  the  landlord. 

"  Where's  he  gone  ?  " 

"  I  don't  know." 

"  A  bad  job,  but  there's  still  some  hope,"  thought  the 
higoumen,  and  hastened  to  Dr.  Sokoloff's  house.  He 
knew  that  Ognianoff  was  not  a  regular  church-goer,  and  did 
not  even  think  of  searching  for  him  in  church.  As  he 
passed  by  Ganko's  cafe  he  looked  in,  but  Boicho  was  not 
there.  "At  least  I  can  learn  from  Sokoloff  where  he  is, 
if  they  haven't  caught  him  already,"  thought  Natanail, 
as  he  hurried  into  the  courtyard. 

"  Is  there  anybody  at  home,  old  lady  ?  "  he  asked  of  the 
housekeeper. 


TWO  STROKES  OF  LUCK  103 

"No,  your  worship,"  she  replied,  throwing  down  her 
broom  and  hastening  to  kiss  the  higoumen's  hand. 

"  Where's  the  doctor  ?  "  he  asked,  with  annoyance. 

"  I  don't  know,  your  Reverence,"  answered  the  woman 
with  an  air  of  confusion,  looking  about  her  aimlessly. 

"  Dear  me  !  dear  me  !  "  muttered  the  higoumen,  making 
for  the  door. 

The  old  woman  followed  him,  "  Wait  a  moment,  your 
Reverence." 

"  What  is  it  ?"  he  asked,  impatiently. 

She  assumed  a  look  of  mystery,  and  whispered  : 

"  He's  here,  right  enough,  but  he's  hiding ;  the  Turks  have 
just  been  to  look  for  him.     I  beg  your  pardon.  Father." 

"  He's  not  hiding  from  me.  Why  didn't  you  tell  me  at 
once  ?  "  cried  the  higoumen,  as  he  passed  rapidly  through 
the  courtyard  and  knocked  at  the  door,  which  the  doctor 
opened  at  once. 

"  Where's  Boicho  ?  "  were  the  higoumen's  first  words. 

"  With  Rada — what  is  it  ?  "  The  doctor  guessed  that 
something  very  serious  must  have  happened,  and  grew 
deadly  pale. 

"  They're  at  this  moment  digging  at  the  mill.  There's 
been  treachery  at  work." 

"  Oh  !  Boicho's  ruined,"  cried  the  doctor  in  despair. 
"  He  must  be  warned  at  once." 

"They've  been  to  his  house  to  look  for  him,  but  he 
wasn't  there,"  continued  the  higoumen  excitedly.  "  I 
came  at  full  gallop  on  horseback  to  warn  him.  My  God  ! 
what  will  become  of  the  lad  ?  they've  found  out  all.  Where 
are  you  going  to  ?  "  he  asked  with  surprise. 

"  I'll  run  round  to  Boicho — we  must  save  him,  if  it's  not 
too  late,"  said  the  doctor,  opening  the  door. 

The  higoumen  looked  at  him  in  increasing  bewilderment. 

"  Well  ?  and  how  about  you  ?  They're  looking  for  you 
too.     I'd  better  go." 

The  doctor  made  a  movement  of  dissent. 

"  Not  to  be  thought  of — your  appearance  at  Rada's 
rooms  or  in  church  would  be  noticed  at  once  ;  it  would 
create  a  scandal." 

"  Yes,  but  you'll  fall  into  their  hands." 

"  Perhaps  ;  but  by  hook  or  by  crook  I  must  give  him 
warning.  The  real  danger  is  for  Boicho.  I'll  go  through 
the  back  streets," 


104  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

And  the  doctor  disappeared  through  the  door. 

The  higoumen  blessed  him  with  tears  in  his  eyes. 

The  doctor  knew  that  Ognianoff  had  an  appointment  for 
that  morning  at  the  girls'  school,  where  he  was  to  meet  an 
emissary  from  the  Pazarjik  Revolutionary  Committee.  A 
few  hurried  steps  brought  him  to  the  church  unnoticed  by 
the  police,  and  he  rushed  upstairs  to  the  girls'  school  where 
Rada  was  now  living  :  he  burst  into  the  room  like  a  hurri- 
cane ;  his  sudden  appearance  in  so  precipitate  a  manner 
threw  the  girl  into  a  state  of  confusion. 

"  Has  Boicho  been  here  ?  "  he  cried,  panting,  without  a 
word  of  greeting. 

"  He's  just  gone  out,"  replied  Rada.  "  But  why  are  you 
so  pale  ?  " 

"  Where  has  he  gone  !  " 

"  To  church  ;  what's  the  matter  ?  My  God  !  who's 
looking  for  him  ?  " 

"  To  church  ?  "  cried  Sokoloff  without  further  explana- 
tion, and  opened  the  door  to  go  out.  But  he  drew  back  at 
once,  dismayed.  He  saw  that  the  on-bashi  was  placing  a 
guard  round  the  church  doors. 

"  Whatever  is  it,  doctor  ? "  asked  the  poor  school- 
mistress, with  a  presentiment  of  trouble. 

Sokoloff  drew  her  to  the  window,  and  pointed  to  the 
zapties. 

"  Do  you  see  ? — they're  on  the  watch  for  Boicho.  He's 
been  betrayed,  Rada.  They're  looking  for  me,  too.  Ah, 
what  misery !  "  he  cried,  clasping  his  head  with  both 
hands. 

Rada  sank  powerless  on  the  divan.  Her  round  face, 
pale  with  terror,  seemed  still  whiter  beneath  her  black 
hood  :   she  was  like  marble. 

Sokoloff  stared. from  the  window.  He  dared  not  show 
himself  to  the  zapties,  and  was  trying  to  find  some  trusty 
friend  whom  he  could  ask  to  warn  Ognianoff  of  the  fearful 
danger  he  was  in. 

Suddenly  he  caught  sight  of  Fratio  passing  under  the 
window  on  his  way  to  church. 

"  Fratio,  Fratio  !  "  he  called  in  low  tones,  "  come 
nearer." 

Fratio  stopped. 

"Fratio,  you're  going  to  the  men's  church,  aren't 
you  ?  " 


TWO  STROKES  OF  LUCK  105 

"  Yes — as  usual,"  replied  Fratio. 

"  Boicho's  there  ;  tell  him — there's  a  good  fellow  ! — to 
look  out  for  himself.  The  zapties  are  waiting  for  him 
outside." 

Fratio  cast  an  anxious  glance  at  the  church,  and  saw  that 
the  three  exits  were  guarded  by  zapties.  His  diminutive 
face  blanched  with  terror. 

"  Will  you  tell  him  ?  "  asked  the  doctor,  impatiently. 

"  What— I  ?  Ye— e— s— I'll  tell  him,"  repHed  the 
prudent  Fratio,  with  evident  hesitation.  Then  he  added 
suspiciously  : 

"  Why  don't  you  tell  him  yourself,  doctor  ?  " 

"  They're  on  the  look-out  for  me,  too,"  whispered  the 
doctor. 

Fratio's  face  fell  still  more.  He  hastened  away  from  so 
perilous  a  conversation,  and  moved  on. 

"  At  once,  Fratio — do  you  hear  ?  "  repeated  SokolofF  for 
the  last  time. 

Fratio  nodded  affirmatively,  went  on  a  few  steps,  and 
then  turned  off  and  entered  the  nuns'  convent. 

When  the  doctor  saw  this  he  tore  his  hair  in  desperation. 
He  was  no  longer  thinking  of  himself  but  of  his  friend. 
He  saw  thab  even  if  he  could  be  warned  now  it  would  be 
too  late — that  only  a  miracle  could  save  him  from  the 
hands  of  the  police.     There  was  only  a  faint  ray  of  hope  left. 

For  there  really  had  been  treachery.  Stefchoff  had 
proceeded  early  that  morning  to  the  Konak,  and  had 
disclosed  to  the  Bey  certain  suspicions  he  had  long  enter- 
tained with  regard  to  Ognianoff.  At  the  same  moment 
a  terrible  thought  flashed  upon  him.  He  remembered  the 
affair  with  Yemeksiz's  greyhound,  which  the  on-bashi  had 
related  to  him  the  day  before.  Neither  he  nor  the  on-bashi 
had  at  the  time  been  able  to  understand  the  dog's  fury 
against  OgnianofF,  nor  why  it  persisted  in  digging  up  the 
ground  round  the  mill.  What  was  the  animal  looking 
for  ?  Why  had  it  flown  at  Ognianoff  ?  Was  there  in  all 
this  a  clue  to  the  mysterious  disappearance  of  the  two 
Turks,  which,  moreover,  had  coincided  in  point  of  time 
with  Ognianoff 's  arrival  in  the  town?  Undoubtedly 
Ognianoff  had  a  finger  in  it.  Stefchoff's  malignant  mind 
drew  all  these  conclusions  with  lightning  rapidity,  and 
they  gave  irresistible  force  to  the  terrible  suspicions  he  had 
long  cherished. 


106  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

Stefchoff  at  once  suggested  that  they  should  dig  round 
Stoyan's  mill.  The  Bey  immediately  gave  orders  to  this 
effect.  His  plan  was  to  arrest  Ognianoff  as  early  and  as 
quietly  as  possible,  so  as  to  avoid  any  unnecessary  dis- 
turbance. By  nine  o'clock  the  bodies  of  the  two  Turks 
were  found,  and  Ognianoff 's  fate  was  sealed.  He  was 
now  tracked  like  a  wild  beast.  The  on-bashi  preferred  to 
arrest  him  outside  the  church  :  the  entry  of  the  police 
would  have  disturbed  the  whole  congregation,  and  have 
stimulated  Ognianoff  to  a  desperate  resistance.  It  would 
be  better  to  take  him  unawares.  While  Sokoloff  was 
bewailing  his  fate  on  one  side,  and  Rada  lay  fainting  on 
the  other,  suddenly  a  heavy  footstep  was  heard  on  the 
stairs.  The  doctor  started  and  listened  attentively.  The 
steps  slowly  approached  :  the  new  arrival,  who  was 
evidently  leaning  heavily  on  a  stick,  stopped  outside  the 
door.  And  a  voice  was  heard  chanting,  in  imitation  of  the 
church  choir  : 

"Be  pleased  to  bless,  good  Lord,  the  followers  of  Thy 
word  :  Holy  Serafima  and  gentle  Cherubima." 

"  It's  Kolcho,"  cried  the  doctor,  opening  the  door. 

The  blind  man  came  in  freely,  he  was  at  home  every- 
where. 

"  Have  you  been  to  church,  Kolcho  ?  " 

"  Yes." 

*'  Did  you  see  Ognianoff  there  ?  "  asked  the  doctor  im- 
patiently. 

"  Well,  my  spectacles  haven't  come  from  America  yet, 
so  I  couldn't  see  him.  But  I  know  he's  in  there,  near  the 
altar,  by  Frangoff." 

The  doctor  spoke  to  him  seriously  : 

"  Kolcho — listen  to  me.  This  is  no  time  for  jesting. 
The  police  are  after  Ognianoff,  and  the  zapties  are  watching 
for  him  at  the  doors.  He  doesn't  know  anything  about  it. 
He's  lost  if  some  one  doesn't  warn  him." 

"  I'll  go  !  " 

*'  Do,  Kolcho,  dear,  I  entreat  you,"  said  Rada,  whose 
hopes  revived. 

"  I'd  go  myself,  but  the  police  are  after  me  too.  But 
they'll  let  you  in — go,  will  you  ?  "  said  the  doctor. 

"  Will  I  ?  Why,  I'd  give  my  miserable  life  for  Ognianoff, 
if  necessary.  What  am  I  to  tell  him  ?  "  asked  the  blind 
man  eagerly. 


A  DIFFICULT  MISSION  107 

"  Tell  him  only  this  :  Everj^thing  is  discovered  ;  the 
church  doors  are  guarded  by  zapties  ;  save  yourself  as  best 
you  can." 

He  added,  gloomily  :  "If  they  haven't  indeed  already 
sent  some  one  in  to  get  him  out  by  a  trick." 

Kolcho  understood  the  importance  of  every  moment,  and 
went  out  hurriedly. 

CHAPTER  XVIII :    A  DIFFICULT  MISSION 

Kolcho  went  slowly  down  the  stairs,  feeling  each  step  with 
his  stick.  But  when  he  reached  the  courtyard  he  went  on 
boldly  and  entered  the  porch.  There  he  stopped,  feeling 
giddy,  and  as  he  searched  his  pockets  for  his  handkerchief 
he  heard  Sherif  Aga  giving  his  instructions  : 

"  Hassan  Aga,"  he  was  saying  in  a  low  voice,  "  go  and 
tell  the  others  to  keep  their  eyes  open.  If  he  resists,  shoot 
him  down  at  once." 

"  Nenko,  my  boy,  go  in  and  call  the  Count — you  know, 
Ognianoff  the  teacher — tell  him  there's  a  man  who  wants  to 
see  him  at  once,"  said  Filcho  the  constable  to  some  small 
boy,  as  far  as  Kolcho  could  tell. 

He  began  to  fear  lest  they  should  be  beforehand  with 
him  :  he  raised  the  heavy  curtain  and  went  in.  The  church 
was  thronged  with  people.  Hajji  Atanasi  was  chanting  the 
last  anthem  and  the  final  benediction  was  at  hand.  The 
crowd  was  unusually  thick,  because  there  had  been  a  great 
many  communicants  and  several  requiem  services  that  day. 
Consequently  the  whole  aisle  was  blocked  with  people. 
The  blind  man  was  as  it  were  plunged  in  an  impenetrable 
forest,  as  dark  as  night,  which,  indeed,  was  eternal  with 
Kolcho.  His  instinct  guided  him  aright ;  but  how  was  he 
to  surmount  that  wall  of  opposing  hands,  breasts,  shoulders, 
and  feet  ?  Slender  and  diminutive  though  he  was,  it  was 
out  of  the  question  to  think  of  forcing  his  way  to  the  altar 
by  Ognianoff.  It  would  have  been  a  difficult  task  for  a 
Goliath.  He  pushed  on  for  a  certain  distance,  but  stopped, 
wearied  out.  He  tried  here  and  there,  in  the  night,  to  get 
through,  but  in  vain  ;  the  wall  was  un5delding.  Indeed, 
many  muttered  angrily  to  him  not  to  push,  and  threatened 
to  force  him  back.  Iron  elbows  crushed  his  feeble  sides. 
He  was  exhausted.  In  a  few  minutes  would  come  the 
"  Walk  ye  in  the  fear  of  the  Lord  and  the  faith,"  the  stream 


108  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

would  flow  out,  and  Kolcho  would  be  carried  away  with 
it.  And  then  Ognianoff  was  lost.  Besides — ^who  knows  ? — 
perhaps  at  that  very  minute  the  boy  had  reached  Ognianoff 
by  some  other  door,  and  induced  him  to  come  out  un- 
suspecting. He  might  be  passing  by  Kolcho,  pushing 
against  him  with  his  elbow,  and  Kolcho  knowing  nothing. 
He  stretched  out  his  hand  instinctively  to  feel  if  there  was  a 
boy  there.  As  luck  would  have  it  his  hand  encountered  a 
body  which  seemed  to  him  that  of  a  boy':  his  terrified 
mind  at  once  jumped  to  the  conclusion  that  it  was  the  ill- 
omened  messenger  on  his  way  to  call  Ognianoff.  In  his 
excitement  he  pushed  him  back  with  all  his  might,  saying 
hurriedly  and  almost  unconsciously  :  "Is  that  you,  boy  ? 
what's  your  name,  boy  ?  stand  back,  boy  !  "  Just  then  the 
swaying  of  the  crowd  separated  them.  Kolcho  was  in 
despair.  The  poor,  honest  lad  was  suffering  agonies.  He 
felt  with  terror  that  Ognianoff's  Hfe  depended  on  a  single 
hair,  and  that  he,  Kolcho,  weak,  powerless,  lost,  almost 
invisible  in  that  sea  of  human  beings,  was  that  hair.  And 
the  anthem  was  almost  over.  Haj  ji  Atanasi,  usually  so  slow 
and  tedious,  was  going  through  his  chant  at  lightning  speed. 
What  was  to  be  done  ?  Critical  moments  suggest  rapid 
decisions.     Kolcho  exclaimed  despairingly  : 

"  Make  way,  good  people — I'm  dying — I'm  fainting,"  and 
he  pushed  forward  with  all  his  might.  At  this  appeal  every 
one  made  an  effort  to  allow  the  sufferer  to  pass  :  no  one 
wanted  to  crush  him  to  death.  By  this  stratagem  Kolcho 
squeezed  past  them  and  reached  the  altar  more  dead  than 
alive.  He  found  Ognianoff  without  asking  anybody — such 
is  the  marvellous  instinct  of  the  sightless.  He  grasped  an 
arm  quite  confidently  and  asked  in  a  whisper  : 

"  Is  that  you.  Master  Boicho  ?  " 

"  Yes,  what  is  it  ?  "  answered  Ognianoff. 

''  Bend  down." 

Ognianoff  stooped  with  his  ear  to  the  blind  man's  lips. 

When  he  rose  again  he  was  livid. 

For  a  moment  he  was  plunged  in  thought.  The  veins  of 
his  forehead  swelled  out  and  showed  the  terrible  mental 
struggle  going  on  within. 

He  bent  down  again  and  whispered  something  to 
Kolcho. 

Then  he  left  the  altar,  moved  forward,  and  was  lost  in  the 
crowd  of  communicants  standing  there. 


A  DIFFICULT  MISSION  109 

At  that  very  moment  the  sanctuary  doors  were  thrown 
open,  and  Pope  Nikodim,  with  the  Eucharist  in  his  hands, 
began  :  "  Walk  ye  in  the  fear  of  God,"  and  the  service  was 
over. 

The  congregation  poured  out  from  the  doors  Hke  a  torrent 
which  has  just  been  loosed.  In  half  an  hour  the  last  old 
woman  among  the  communicants  had  left  the  church. 

The  only  person  left  was  the  officiating  priest,  who  was 
taking  off  his  vestments. 

Then  the  zapties  and  constables  came  in.  The  on-bashi 
was  enraged  at  the  non-appearance  of  Ognianoff .  He  must 
be  hidden  in  the  church.  The  doors  were  locked  and  the 
search  began.  Some  climbed  over  the  trelUs  partitions  of 
the  women's  places  ;  others  hunted  under  the  altar  and  in 
the  corners  ;  others,  again,  searched  the  sanctuary.  Every- 
thing was  turned  inside  out,  every  comer  which  could 
possibly  serve  as  a  hiding-place  was  overhauled  ;  the  zapties 
searched  behind  the  lecterns,  in  the  cupboards  where  the 
vestments  were  kept,  in  the  chest  of  eikons,  in  the  embra- 
sures of  the  windows — but  no  one  was  to  be  seen .  Ognianoff 
seemed  to  have  sunk  into  the  ground.  The  sexton  himself 
showed  all  the  Ukely  places,  being  convinced  that  Ognianoff 
was  not  hidden  there.  After  a  while  Pope  Nikodim  began 
to  join  in  the  search,  fumbUng  everywhere,  with  bewilder- 
ment depicted  on  his  countenance.  He  began  to  look  even 
among  the  books  and  vestments.  The  on-bashi  himself 
began  to  be  astonished  at  such  zeal.  The  constable  Mikhail 
pointed  out  to  him  that  not  even  a  chicken,  much  less  a  man, 
could  be  concealed  there. 

"  I'm  looking  for  something  else  altogether,"  grumbled 
the  Pope. 

"  What  ?  " 

*'  Why,  my  fur  cloak  has  disappeared,  and  my  hat,  and 
my  blue  spectacles  in  it." 

The  poor  Pope  was  already  shivering  with  cold. 

"  Ah,  I  see  it  all,  Sherif  Aga,"  cried  Mikhail. 

Sherif  Aga  came  up  hot  and  panting. 

"  A  thief's  always  a  thief,"  added  the  constable  with 
secret  satisfaction :  "  he's  stolen  the  old  Pope's  clothes." 

Sherif  Aga  remained  speechless  ;  when  he  recovered  ; 
■    "  Is  that  so.  Pope  ?  " 

"  My  cloak's  gone,  and  my  hat  and  my  spectacles — they've 
all  vanished,"  said  the  Pope,  tearfuUy. 


110  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  He  must  have  stolen  them,"  said  Sherif  Aga,  with  the 
air  of  a  man  who  has  just  made  a  great  discovery. 

"  Of  course,  the  Count  must  have  put  on  the  robe  and 
the  hat,  and  gone  out  quietly  without  our  recognising  him," 
said  the  constable. 

"  That's  it,"  said  the  Pope.  "  He  must  have  taken  them 
while  I  was  administering  the  sacrament." 

"  Well,  I  did  see  a  Pope  at  the  door  with  blue  spectacles 
on,"  said  one  of  the  zap  ties. 

"  And  why  didn't  you  stop  him,  you  fool  ?  "  cried  his 
superior. 

"  Why  should  I  stop  him  ?  We  weren't  told  to  look  for  a 
Pope,  but  an  ordinary  man,"  said  the  zapti^  in  self -justifica- 
tion. 

"  That  was  him,  I'll  be  bound,"  cried  Mikhail ;  ''  that 
was  why  he  was  so  closely  wrapped  up — one  could  only  see 
his  spectacles.  His  own  mother  wouldn't  have  known 
him." 

A  loud  knocking  was  heard  at  the  door.  Sherif  Aga 
ordered  it  to  be  opened. 

The  constable  Filcho  and  the  churchwarden  came  in. 

"  Sherif  Aga,  the  Count's  in  the  trap,"  cried  Filcho. 

"  Yes,  he's  hidden  himself  in  the  nuns'  convent ;  he  was 
seen  going  in,"  added  the  churchwarden. 

"  To  the  convent — at  once  !  " 

And  they  all  hurried  out. 


CHAPTER  XIX  :    A  DISAGREEABLE  VISIT 

In  a  few  moments  the  pohce  had  reached  the  convent  gates. 
Sherif  Aga  left  two  sentinels  there  with  drawn  swords  and 
revolvers  cocked. 

"  You're  to  allow  no  one  either  to  come  in  or  go  out,"  he 
ordered,  and  then  hastened  into  the  courtyard  with  the  rest 
of  his  men. 

Their  entry  caused  a  great  commotion  in  the  convent, 
and  spread  confusion  and  terror  in  all  the  cells.  The  nuns 
ran  up  and  down  stairs,  scampered  through  the  corridors  and 
verandahs,  with  their  visitors  behind  them,  and  the  noise 
and  clamour  was  indescribable.  The  on-bashi  made  fruit- 
less efforts  to  reassure  them — ^he  called  out  to  them  in 
Turkish,  but  they  could  scarcely  hear  and  still  less  under- 
stand what  he  said.    Meanwhile,  the  zapti^s  seized  every 


A  DISAGREEABLE  VISIT  111 

Pope  they  could  find,  as  well  as  everybody  who  wore 
spectacles,  blue  or  otherwise,  and  even  two  people  called 
Bocho — all  these  they  locked  up  in  a  small  room.  Amongst 
them  were  Kandoff  and  Brzobegounek.  The  latter,  how- 
ever, was  at  once  released,  with  humble  apologies,  by  the 
on-bashi  as  being  no  raya,  but  a  subject  of  the  Emperor  of 
Austria.  Kandoff  protested  from  the  windows  against  this 
unwarranted  restraint  of  his  personal  liberty,  and  was  in  a 
towering  passion  :  his  companions  however  remained  quiet, 
as  they  knew  too  well  the  customs  of  the  Turkish  police. 

"  Why,  one  would  think  you'd  never  seen  a  Turk  before, 
Kandoff,"  said  a  Pope. 

"  Yes,  but  this  is  illegal,  it's  oppression,  it's  tyranny,  it's 
an  infraction  of  the  most  sacred  of  human  rights." 

"  That  sort  of  tyranny  and  oppression  can't  be  put  an  end 
to  by  complaints — this  is  the  thing  for  it,"  said  Bocho  the 
butcher,  showing  his  knife. 

In  his  haste  Sherif  Aga  had  not  thought  of  inquiring  who  it 
was  that  had  seen  Ognianoff  go  into  the  convent,  nor  what 
clothes  he  was  wearing  :  he  had  at  once  hurriedly  begun  to 
search  the  gallery  where  the  fugitive  was  reported  to  have 
hidden  himself.  Hajji  Bovoama's  cell  was  on  this  gallery. 
The  nuns  were  recovering  from  their  first  fright  and  were 
loud  in  their  protestations  ;  they  complaiued  bitterly  that 
they  should  be  suspected  of  harbouring  criminals.  Hajji 
Rovoama  was  the  most  vociferous  in  her  indignation  ;  she 
knew  Turkish  and  was  able  to  pour  such  a  flood  of  abuse  at 
the  on-bashi  as  soon  turned  him  to  flight  ignominiously. 
But  the  search  went  on  feverishly  in  the  other  cells. 
Ognianoff  was  being  hunted  for  so  carefully  that  sooner  or 
later  he  was  bound  to  be  discovered.  Sherif  Aga's  reputa- 
tion was  at  stake  ;  he  was  determined  to  find  the  culprit ; 
not  a  single  cupboard  or  chest  was  left  unsearched,  cellars 
and  dark  comers  were  ransacked.  All  expected,  in  terror, 
every  moment  to  hear  that  the  unhappy  "  Count  "  had  been 
caught  in  some  cell. 

Indeed,  at  one  moment  there  were  cries  of  "  They've  got 
him  "  ;  but  it  turned  out  that  it  was  Fratio,  who  had  been 
found  hidden  under  Sister  Nimfidora's  divan — he  was  at 
once  released. 

Rada,  supporting  herself  by  the  beams  of  the  gallery,  was 
watching  the  search  with  terrible  anxiety.  She  was  in  a 
state  of  frantic  terror :    her  cheeks  were  wet  with  tears. 


112  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

She  took  no  pains  to  conceal  her  emotion — indeed,  it  would 
have  been  useless  ;  her  grief  convinced  every  one  that  she 
was  in  love  with  Ognianoff  :  many  cast  hostile  glances  at 
her,  but  she  cared  little  for  the  opinion  of  these  women,  so 
cold  and  merciless  before  the  misfortunes  which  threatened 
her  lover.     She  allowed  her  tears  to  flow  unrestrained. 

On  one  side  two  nuns  were  eagerly  whispering  together 
and  pointing  mysteriously  to  Hajji  Daria's  cell.  Hajji 
Daria  was  Sokoloff's  aunt  and  Boicho's  chief  partisan. 
Boicho  was  doubtless  in  there  now,  and  the  search  came 
every  moment  nearer  and  nearer  to  Hajji  Daria's  cell. 
Rada's  heart  almost  stopped  beating.  She  was  petrified 
with  anxiety.     Oh  !   God,  what  was  to  be  done  ? 

Kolcho  silently  approached  her — he  knew  her  by  her  sobs 
and  whispered : 

"  Rada,  are  you  alone  ?  " 

"  Yes,  Kolcho,  quite  alone,"  she  answered  tearfully. 

"  Don't  be  uneasy,  Rada,"  he  whispered. 

"  What  do  you  mean,  Kolcho  ?  And  if  they  find  him  ? 
He's  in  there.  You  know  you  said  yourself  some  one  saw 
him  go  in." 

*'  I  don't  think  he's  there,  Rada." 

*'  But  everybody  else  thinks  he  is." 

"  Sh  !  I  spread  the  rumour  myself.  Boicho  told  me  to, 
in  church.  Let  the  police  waste  their  time  here.  Ognia- 
noff's  at  this  moment  as  free  as  a  wolf  on  the  mountain," 

The  poor  girl  could  scarcely  restrain  herself  from  embra- 
cing the  bhnd  man.  Her  face  Hghted  up  with  a  bright  and 
sudden  joy,  like  the  sky  after  a  storm. 

She  went  quietly  and  joyfully  into  sister  Hajji  Rovoama's 
cell ;  the  sister  at  once  noticed  her  changed  demeanour,  and 
frowned  with  vexation. 

"  I  wonder  if  the  slut  knows  he's  not  in  the  convent,"  she 
thought  bitterly. 

Then,  with  a  look  of  interrogation,  she  said  : 

"  Why,  Rada,  you've  been  crying  !  Crying  for  a  brigand 
and  murderer  !  Go  on  ;  that's  right,  make  yourself  a  laugh- 
ing-stock before  the  whole  world." 

Rada's  heart  was  swelling  with  happiness. 

"  Why  shouldn't  I  cry  ?  "  she  answered  boldly.  "  Some 
one  may  well  cry  for  him  when  every  one  else  is  gloating 
over  his  fall." 

This  daring  reply  seemed   to    the    nun    inconceivably 


A  DISAGREEABLE  VISIT  113 

improper.  She  was  not  used  to  being  answered.  She 
clenched  her  teeth  with  rage. 

"  Be  quiet,  you  shameless  hussy." 

*'  I'm  not  a  shameless  hussy." 

"  You're  a  shameless  hussy  and  a  stupid  idiot  ;  and  your 
bloodthirsty  murderer  of  a  lover  will  be  on  his  way  to  the 
gallows  before  the  day's  over." 

"  Perhaps  ;  if  they  catch  him,"  answered  Rada,  sharply. 

Hajji  Rovoama  started  forward,  mad  with  rage  : 

*'  Get  out,  you  imp  of  Satan  ;  never  darken  my  threshold 
again,"  she  cried,  spuming  Rada  from  the  door. 

Rada  went  back  to  the  gallery  as  if  nothing  had  happened. 
What  did  she  care  for  Hajji  Rovoama's  scorn,  or  for  the 
insulting  manner  in  which  she  had  been  turned  out  ?  She 
was  quite  happy,  her  heart  was  at  peace  :  indeed,  she  was 
glad  at  having  broken  off  all  relations  with  her  unkind  pro- 
tectress. Soon,  perhaps  that  very  day,  they  might  dismiss 
her  from  the  school,  and  she  would  find  herself  homeless  and 
penniless. 

But  what  did  all  that  matter  ?  She  knew  that  Boicho  was 
safe,  safe  as  a  wolf  on  the  mountain,  as  Kolcho  said.  God  ! 
how  good  Kolcho  was  !  What  a  kindly  and  sympathetic 
soul,  compassionate  for  the  misfortunes  of  others,  and  forget- 
ful of  his  own,  poor  fellow.  And  how  many  others  would 
have  remained  blind  and  heedless  before  other  people's 
sufferings.  That  Stefchoff  for  instance — the  savage,  who 
was  now  impatiently  awaiting  Boicho 's  destruction  !  But 
Boicho  was  far  away  from  his  enemies  now.  They  would 
have  no  cause  to  triumph  ;  but  how  happy  good  people 
would  be  at  his  escape.  No,  there  was  no  one,  no  one 
in  the  whole  world  as  happy  as  she  was.  While  she  was 
taken  up  by  these  bright  and  innocent  thoughts,  she  sud- 
denly saw  Kolcho  quietly  feeling  his  way  downstairs. 

"  Kolcho  !  "  she  cried,  without  knowing  what  for. 

"  Rada,  is  that  you  calling  ?  "  and  Kolcho  turned  back. 

"  My  God  !  what  did  I  want  to  call  back  the  poor  boy 
for,  uselessly,"  she  thought  to  herself  with  shame  ;  she  ran 
towards  him,  stopped  him,  and  said,  "  Kolcho,  dear,  it's 
nothing— I  only  wanted  to  shake  hands,"  and  she  pressed 
his  hand  with  warm  gratitude. 

The  search  went  on.  Sherif  Aga,  wearied  out,  left  it  to 
his  men  and  proceeded  to  examine  the  wearers  of  Popes' 
hats  and  blue  spectacles,  whom  he  had  forgotten. 


114  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

Kandoff  was  still  protesting  against  the  violence  done  to 
his  person  in  defiance  of  all  justice. 

The  on-bashi,  astounded,  asked  one  of  them  to  translate 
into  Turkish  the  words  of  the  enraged  Chelebi. 

*'  Say  it  again,  Kandoff,  and  I'll  turn  it  into  Turkish," 
said  Bencho  Dermanoff,  who  was  the  best  Turkish  scholar 
present. 

"Tell  him,  will  you,"  added  Kandoff,  "that  the  inviola- 
bility of  my  person,  which  is  the  most  precious  of  human 
prerogatives,  in  defiance  of  all  legahty  and  every  principle 
of  justice " 

Bencho  stopped  him  with  a  despairing  wave  of  the 
hand. 

"  Why,  the  very  words  don't  exist  in  Turkish.  You'd 
better  leave  it  alone,  Kandoff." 

At  last  the  convent  was  freed  of  its  unwelcome  guests, 
who  went  on  to  search  the  garden  and  the  neighbouring 
houses. 


CHAPTER  XX  :    THE  FUGITIVE 

Once  more  Ognianoff  owed  his  life  to  his  presence  of 
mind. 

No  sooner  was  he  out  of  the  town  than  his  first  care  was 
to  hide  his  Pope's  hat  and  fur  cloak  behind  a  bush. 

The  snowstorm  which  had  fortunately  come  on  had 
enabled  him  to  pass  unseen  through  the  deserted  streets  : 
outside  the  town  it  was  still  fiercer.  The  mountain  blasts 
whistled  shrill,  the  ridge  of  the  Stara  Planina  was  as  if 
powdered  over  with  salt.  The  fields,  deserted  and  lifeless, 
assumed  an  unspeakably  dreary  aspect  under  their  icy 
shroud.  Luckily  the  sun  soon  after  penetrated  the  clouds 
and  shed  its  invigorating  warmth  on  the  frozen  landscape. 

Ognianoff  fled  to  the  westward  across  the  trackless  fields 
and  through  vineyards  seamed  with  ravines  and  dry  water- 
courses. He  was  much  perturbed.  Some  fataHty  seemed 
to  have  allied  itself  with  Stefchoff  and  to  be  pressing 
relentlessly  after  him.  In  one  moment  he  saw  the  whole 
edifice,  built  up  so  sedulously  and  with  such  tender  care, 
crumbhng  in  ruin  before  him.  He  saw  the  deacon,  the 
doctor,  old  Stoyan,  and  perhaps  other  firm  and  devoted 
friends,  flung  into  prison,  Rada  overwhelmed  with  grief, 
his  enemies  everywhere  triumphant.    He  could  not  divine 


THE  FUGITIVE  115 

the  circumstances  which  had  brought  about  this  discovery. 
All  his  worst  forebodings  passed  before  his  eyes.  But  was 
the  game  irretrievably  lost  ?  Would  this  discovery  lead  to 
fresh  revelations  ?  His  flight  now  seemed  to  him  to  be  an 
act  of  base  cowardice.  He  was  desirous  of  returning,  so  as 
to  assure  himself  of  the  extent  of  the  evil  :  he  was  no 
longer  thinking  of  himself  :  his  fearlessness  was  quite 
sufficient  for  such  an  undertaking.  But  reflection  showed 
that  he  must,  at  least,  disguise  himself  first  so  as  to  be 
unrecognisable.  So  he  pushed  on.  He  determined  to 
make  for  Ovcheri,  a  village  where  he  numbered  his  most 
faithful  adherents,  and  to  which  he  most  frequently  repaired 
in  his  periodical  journeys.  At  uncle  Delko's  he  would 
be  able  to  think  things  over  quietly.  But  the  path  to 
Ovcheri,  which  was  hidden  away  in  a  valley  amid  the 
sohtary  outskirts  of  the  Sredna  Gora,  was  full  of  dangers 
for  Ognianoff,  for  it  passed  through  the  numerous  Turkish 
villages  which  abounded  in  those  parts.  The  news  of  the 
discovery  of  the  bodies  of  the  two  buUies  would  be  sure  to 
reach  those  semi-brigand  haunts  that  very  day.  Even  if 
they  did  not  seize  him  on  suspicion  they  were  quite  Hkely 
to  cut  him  down  as  a  ghiaour :  not  a  day  passed  without 
some  such  occurrence  in  the  neighbourhood  ;  and  his  town 
clothing  made  such  an  eventuality  still  more  probable.  It 
was  folly  to  be  over-confident ;  it  would  be  going  to  certain 
desti-uction.  He  determined  to  wait  for  nightfall,  and  with 
this  view  he  retreated  towards  the  spurs  of  the  Stara 
Planina,  where  he  would  be  sheltered  by  the  clustering 
thickets  of  dwarf  oak. 

After  two  hours'  arduous  cHmbing  over  precipices  and 
through  wild  mountain  passes,  he  reached  the  nearest 
thickets.  There  he  found  a  hiding-place  among  the  dry 
bushes,  and  stretched  himself  out  at  full  length  to  repose,  or 
rather  to  think  over  his  position.  The  sky  had  quite  cleared 
up.  The  autumn  sun  shone  bright  and  warm,  and  the  melt- 
ing hoar-frost  and  snow  glistened  on  the  grass  and  the 
boughs.  Here  and  there  sparrows  fiuttered  silently  over- 
head, ahghting  every  now  and  then  to  find  some  food  on  the 
ground.  An  eagle  of  the  Balkans  floated  high  above 
Ognianoff's  head  :  it  had  scented  a  carcase  close  by,  or  else 
took  Ognianoff  to  be  such.  This  thought  made  the  fugitive 
still  more  gloomy.  The  eagle  seemed  to  him  to  be  a  por- 
tent of  evil.    He  took  it  to  be  a  living  emblem  of  his 


116  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

unenviable  fate  :  the  bird  of  prey  seemed  awaiting  its  feast 
of  blood,  for  which  it  had  left  its  eyrie  on  high.  For  every- 
thing was  possible.  That  wild  spot  was  far  from  being 
safe  ;  it  was  frequently  resorted  to  by  Turkish  sportsmen, 
little  better  than  brigands.  Ognianoff  waited  with  im- 
patience for  sunset,  and  several  times  changed  his  place 
for  a  more  secret  refuge.  The  day  seemed  inconceivably 
long  ;  the  sun  still  shone  unwearied.  And  the  eagle  still 
floated  overhead.  Twice  or  three  times  it  flapped  its  wings, 
and  then  stretched  them  out  black  and  motionless  in  mid- 
air. Ognianofl's  eyes  seemed  fascinated  by  the  bird,  but 
his  thoughts  were  far  away.  Before  his  troubled  mind 
passed  one  after  another  visions  of  the  past — days  of 
youth,  days  of  struggles,  of  suffering,  and  of  faith  in  a  lofty 
ideal.  And  Bulgaria,  which  had  inspired  all  these — Bulgaria 
was  so  fair,  so  bright,  so  worthy  of  all  sacrifices  !  She  was 
a  goddess  that  lived  on  the  blood  of  her  worshippers.  Her 
bloody  aureole  bore  on  it  a  scroll  of  glorious  names ;  and 
Ognianoff  sought  for  his  own  name  among  them,  and 
fancied  he  saw  it  there.  How  proud  he  was — ^how  ready 
to  die — ^nay,  to  fight  for  her !  Death  was  an  exalted 
sacrifice,  but  the  struggle  was  a  great  mystery. 

Suddenly  a  gunshot  was  heard.  Ognianoff  started.  The 
Balkan  echoes  reverberated  the  sound  till  it  died  away. 

"  Probably  some  one  out  after  game,"  he  said  to  himself. 

Ognianoff's  rehef  was  but  short-Hved.  A  quarter  of  an 
hour  later  he  heard  the  bark  of  a  dog  at  no  great  distance. 
The  bark  was  immediately  followed  by  a  human  voice. 
Ognianoff  was  involuntarily  reminded  of  the  greyhound  of 
Yemeksiz,  who  had  belonged  to  the  neighbouring  village. 
The  bark  seemed  to  him  to  be  familiar.  It  was  repeated, 
this  time  nearer  ;  the  thickets  rustled  as  if  with  the  wind, 
and  two  greyhounds  rushed  towards  him  with  their  muzzles 
to  the  ground. 

Ognianoff  sighed  with  relief. 

Yemeksiz  Pehlivan's  dog  was  not  there  :  the  animal  had 
been  trained  to  pursue  human  beings  as  well  as  game. 
That  accursed  creature,  contrary  to  the  ordinary  nature  of 
greyhounds,  which  are  generally  dull  and  gentle  beasts 
enough,  was  very  vindictive,  as  was  seen  at  the  monastery. 
It  had  appeared  as  Stefchofl's  ally  and  had  prepared 
Ognianoff's  destruction.  When  the  dogs  saw  him  retreating 
into  the  thicket  they  approached  him,  sniffed,  and  passed 


THE  FUGITIVE  lir 

on.  Suddenly  Ognianoff  heard  men's  footsteps  approach- 
ing. He  fled  through  the  bushes  without  looking  behind 
him.  Three  shots  were  fired,  he  felt  a  sharp  sting  in  the 
heel  and  trebled  the  speed  of  his  flight.  Whether  they 
were  pursuing  him,  or  what  was  going  on  behind,  he  knew 
not.  The  valley  of  a  stream  appeared  before  him.  He 
plunged  into  the  low  bushes  on  the  bank  and  lay  hidden 
there.  Probably  the  hunters  had  lost  him.  Ognianofl  lay 
listening  for  a  long  time,  but  not  a  sound  was  to  be  heard. 
Then  he  felt  something  hot  and  moist  on  his  foot.  '*  I'm 
wounded,"  he  thought  with  terror,  seeing  his  boot  drenched 
with  blood.  He  took  off  his  left  boot  and  saw  that  blood 
was  gushing  from  two  places,  the  buUet  had  passed  right 
through  his  heel.  He  tore  off  a  piece  of  his  shirt  and 
staunched  the  blood.  The  pain  grew  more  intense,  and  a 
long  and  difficult  path  still  lay  before  him.  The  loss  of 
blood  had  greatly  weakened  him,  and  he  had  moreover 
eaten  nothing  that  day.  Soon  it  became  quite  dark,  and 
he  left  his  hiding-place,  which  was  sure  to  be  ransacked  the 
next  day  by  a  band  of  Turks.  With  nightfall  the  cold 
became  more  piercing.  The  first  Turkish  village  he  came 
to  was  quite  dark.  Turkish  villages  become  silent  and 
deserted  as  graveyards  as  soon  as  night  approaches.  The 
only  light  to  be  seen  was  in  a  grocer's  window.  But 
Ognianoff  did  not  dare  to  go  in,  though  he  was  half  starved. 
He  pushed  on  for  two  hours  more,  passed  through  the 
other  villages,  and  at  length  saw  something  white  and 
glittering  before  him.  It  was  the  stream.  He  waded 
across  with  some  difficulty  and  sat  down  on  the  opposite 
bank,  because  the  water  had  chilled  his  wound  and  the 
pain  was  very  great.  He  saw  that  his  heel  was  swollen, 
and  began  to  be  afraid  lest  inflammation  should  set  in  and 
impede  his  further  progress.  He  rose,  pulled  up  one  of 
the  reeds  growing  on  the  bank,  and  proceeded  to  wash  the 
wound  in  the  manner  he  had  learnt  when  he  was  a  member 
of  Hajji  Dimitr's  band.  He  filled  his  mouth  with  water 
which  he  blew  through  the  reed  into  the  wound.  Having 
repeated  this  several  times,  he  bound  the  place  up  tightly, 
and  pushed  towards  the  Sredna  Gora,  on  the  spurs  of  which 
he  was  already.  The  darkness  increased  every  minute. 
Ognianoff  was  making  for  Ovcheri,  but  seemed  to  be 
getting  no  nearer.  At  last  he  saw  he  must  have  missed  the 
path :    he  found  himself  in  a  labyrinth  of  bushes.    He 


118  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

stopped  in  despair  and  listened.  He  was  now  high  up  in 
the  Sredna  Gora.  A  dull  murmur  of  human  voices  reached 
his  ears.  As  he  conjectured,  there  could  be  no  one  there 
at  that  hour  but  charcoal-burners ;  indeed,  he  could  dis- 
tinguish a  shght  red  flame.  But  were  they  Bulgarians  or 
Turks  ?  He  was  half  stunned,  frozen,  and  exhausted  ;  if 
they  were  Christians  there  was  some  hope  of  assistance 
from  them.  He  mounted  a  Httle  higher  and  then  saw 
clearly  their  fire  close  by  :  he  made  his  way  towards  it. 
Through  the  bushes  he  could  now  distinguish  human  forms 
by  the  fire,  and  his  ear  caught  a  few  Bulgarian  words. 
How  should  he  disclose  himself  ?  He  was  covered  with 
blood.  His  appearance  might  scare  these  Bulgarians  into 
flight,  or  have  even  worse  consequences  for  him.  There 
were  three  of  them — one  was  lying  covered  over,  the  other 
two  were  talking  by  the  fire.  On  one  side  a  pack-horse, 
half -laden,  was  grazing.  Ognianoff  strained  his  ears  to 
listen  to  the  conversation. 

*'  Put  on  some  more  wood,  there's  no  time  for  talking. 
I'll  get  out  a  little  hay  for  the  mare,"  said  the  elder  of  the 
two,  rising. 

"  Why,  I  know  that  voice,  that's  Nencho,  the  son  of  old 
Ivan,  of  Verigovo,"  said  Ognianoff  to  himself,  joyfully. 

Verigovo  was  a  village  on  the  other  side  of  the  Sredna 
Gora,  which  Ognianoff  also  knew. 

Nencho  approached  the  mare  and  stooped  down  to  take 
some  hay  from  a  goatskin  bag.  Ognianoff  moved  towards 
him  through  the  bushes,  and  said  to  him  : 

"  Good  evening,  Nencho."     Nencho  started  to  his  feet. 

"  Who's  there  ?  " 

*'  Don't  you  know  me,  Nencho  ?  " 

The  dim  glare  of  the  fire  lighted  up  Ognianoff's  face. 

"  What,  is  that  you,  teacher  ?  Come  along,  these  are  all 
our  people  ;  this  is  our  Tsvetian  and  that's  Doichin.  Why, 
you're  frozen  to  death — you've  lost  your  way,"  said  the 
peasant,  leading  Ognianoff  to  the  fire. 

"  Tsvetian,  put  on  some  more  wood.  Let's  have  a  good 
fire.  Here's  a  Christian  perished  with  cold  :  we  must  warm 
him  up.     Don't  you  recognise  him  ?  " 

"  What,  the  teacher  !  "  cried  the  boy,  gladly.  "  Wher- 
ever are  you  from  ?  "  he  asked,  putting  down  some  dry 
branches  for  Ognianoff  to  sit  on. 

"  God  bless  you,  Tsvetian.    Glad  to  see  you." 


THE  FUGITIVE  119 

"  The  devils  have  wounded  him  ;  but  it's  not  serious, 
thank  God,"  cried  Nencho,  angrily. 

"  Bah  !   it's  nothing." 

"  Father  Doichin,  get  up,  here's  a  friend  !  "  cried  Nencho, 
waking  up  the  sleeper. 

Soon  there  was  a  big  fire  blazing  before  them.  The 
charcoal-burners  looked  pityingly  and  sympathetically  at 
OgnianofiE's  pale  face,  as  he  briefly  recounted  his  adventures. 
He  soon  felt  the  beneficent  effect  of  the  fire.  His  frozen 
limbs  began  to  thaw  and  the  pain  from  his  wound 
decreased.  Father  Doichin  drew  from  his  ragged  bag  a 
hunch  of  bread  and  an  onion,  and  gave  them  to  Boicho. 

"  That's  all  I  can  give  you,  it's  the  only  food  we've  got. 
But  as  for  warmth,  thank  God,  we're  better  off  than  the 
Sultan.     Fall  to,  teacher." 

Ognianoff  felt  better  every  moment.  His  being  was  filled 
with  a  new  and  inexpressible  comfort.  That  bright  golden 
fire  cheered  him  up,  the  hospitable  wood  round  him,  the 
rough  but  kindly  faces  that  looked  so  friendly,  the  hard, 
toil-stained  hands  stretched  out  to  him  in  true  Bulgarian 
hospitality,  however  humble — all  this  awoke  a  strong 
emotion  within  him.  But  for  his  wound  Ognianoff  would 
have  sung  aloud  for  joy. 

At  dawn  Nencho,  leading  the  horse,  on  which  rode 
Ognianoff,  was  already  knocking  at  a  door  at  Verigovo. 
The  dogs  barked  and  Father  Marin  at  once  appeared. 
The  unusually  early  hour  told  him  some  visitor  out  of  the 
common  had  arrived. 

After  a  word  of  greeting,  Nencho  gave  the  necessary 
explanations. 

"  May  God  cut  off  the  heathens,  root  and  branch  ;  may 
dogs  devour  them  ;  may  the  devil  take  their  souls,"  cried 
Father  Marin,  as  he  gently  helped  down  Ognianoff,  who 
had  suffered  much  from  the  jolting. 

They  took  him  into  a  remote  room  in  the  house,  where 
Ognianoff  had  once  before  spent  the  night.  Old  Marin 
looked  carefully  at  the  wound  and  bound  it  up. 

"  I'll  cure  you  as  I  would  a  sick  dog,"  said  he. 

Soon  the  patient  fell  into  a  sound  slumber. 


120  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

CHAPTER  XXI :    AT  VERIGOVO 

Ognianoff's  convalescence  went  on  satisfactorily,  though 
not  quite  so  fast  as  Father  Marin  had  promised.  The 
hospitable  family  was  quite  devoted  to  the  sufferer,  to 
alleviate  whose  pain  everything  was  done.  His  only 
doctor  was  Father  Marin,  who  knew  something  about 
surgery,  while  Marin's  old  wife  surpassed  herself  daily  by 
some  new  triumph  of  the  culinary  art.  Casks  of  the 
white  wine  of  the  Sredna  Gora  seemed  always  forth- 
coming ;  every  morning  a  chicken  hopped  headless  about 
the  courtyard,  and  eventually  appeared  at  Ognianoff's  table, 
he  alone  being  able  to  enjoy  this  good  cheer,  as  the  Advent 
fasts  were  now  being  observed  with  the  strictness  usual 
among  members  of  the  Orthodox  Greek  Church. 

Three  weeks  passed  by  during  which  Ognianoff  improved 
daily,  thanks  to  the  unflagging  attention  and  care  bestowed 
upon  him  by  the  Bulgarian  household.  But  he  was  tortured 
by  an  impatient  desire  to  know  what  had  happened  at  Bela 
Cherkva — ^how  Rada  was,  what  his  friends  were  doing,  and 
how  the  cause  he  had  worked  for  so  arduously  was  progress- 
ing. He  entreated  old  Marin  to  send  some  one  to  make 
inquiries,  but  the  old  man  would  not  hear  of  it. 

"  No,  I'll  send  no  one  ;  I'm  going  myself  next  week  to 
buy  one  or  two  things  against  the  feast.  You  must  wait  till 
then,  my  son.  You  keep  quiet  and  you'll  be  well  all  the 
sooner.     God's  merciful." 

"  But  I'll  be  able  to  go  myself  next  week." 
"  Do  you  think  I'U  let  you  ?     That's  my  business  ;   I'm 
your  doctor,  and  you've  got  to  ask  my  leave,"  replied  the 
old  man  with  paternal  severity. 

"  But  let  them  send  word  to  Rada  that  I  am  safe." 

*'  She  knows  you're  safe,  since  the  Turks  haven't  got 

you." 

And  Ognianoff  had  to  content  himseH  with  this. 

A  few  faithful  villagers  were  allowed  to  come  and  see 
him  :  they  had  obtained  the  old  man's  leave  after  many 
prayers.  Their  simple  souls  thirsted  for  the  "  teacher's  " 
inflammatory  speeches  ;  whenever  they  left  him  their  faces 
were  flushed  and  their  eyes  bright.  Ognianoff's  most 
frequent  visitor  was  Pope  Yosif ,  the  President  of  the  local 
Revolutionary  Committee.  He  had  already  been  elected 
voivode  leader)  of  the  future  insurrection,  and  kept  his  wand 


AT  VERIGOVO  121 

of  office  concealed  among  the  church  vestments.  Another 
was  Father  Mina,  the  old  schoolmaster.  Ognianoff  was 
convinced  that,  except  these  few  and  old  Marin's  family, 
no  one  else  in  the  whole  village  knew  his  secret.  Mean- 
while he  noticed  with  surprise  that  his  table  was  more 
bountifully  provided  every  day :  fried  chickens,  eggs 
cooked  in  butter,  rice  with  milk,  pastry,  even  wild  duck  and 
hares  were  supplied  him  ;  wines  of  different  kinds  appeared 
daily.  This  lavishness  annoyed  him  ;  he  began  to  be 
ashamed  of  the  expense  he  was  causing.  One  day  in  the 
courtyard  he  observed  that  the  fowl-house  was  empty.  He 
said  to  Father  Marin  : 

"  Father  Marin,  you're  ruining  yourself.  Unless  you  come 
to  your  senses  I  shall  refuse  all  your  dainties  and  send  to  the 
grocer's  for  bread  and  cheese — that's  quite  enough  for  me." 

"  Don't  you  bother  whether  I'm  ruining  myself  or  not. 
I'm  your  doctor  and  know  how  you're  to  be  treated,  so 
does  my  wife.     Don't  you  interfere." 

And  Ognianoff,  much  moved,  said  no  more. 

He  did  not  know  that  the  whole  village  was  contributing 
to  feast  their  beloved  "  Daskal."  *  The  secret  was  kept  in 
common,  yet  treachery  was  out  of  the  question,  so  great 
was  his  popularity  now.  The  report  that  he  had  accounted 
for  two  bullies  had  raised  him  high  in  favour  even  with  the 
most  indifferent.  Heroism  is  of  all  virtues  the  one  that 
strikes  the  public  fancy  the  most. 

However  Ognianoff's  wound  healed  but  slowly,  and  his 
hot  and  impetuous  nature  was  perforce  condemned  to  inac- 
tivity :  he  was  tortured  by  anxiety.  Of  all  his  visitors  he 
found  most  reUef  in  his  conversations  with  good  old  Mina : 
the  two  were  together  daily  for  some  hours,  and  Boicho 
could  not  do  without  him.  Father  Mina  was  a  relic  of  the 
past,  the  last  survivor  probably  of  that  extinct  race  of 
teachers  whose  only  books  were  their  memory  and  the 
psalter,  and  who  had  opened  the  famous  cellar-schools  of 
Bulgaria.  He  had  now  completed  his  seventieth  year,  and 
was  a  grey-headed,  broad,  burly  peasant  dressed  in  the  old- 
fashioned  wide  knickerbockers.  After  a  long  and  active 
life  he  had  found  a  haven  of  rest  in  that  quiet  village  where 
he  was  finishing  his  days.  He  had  outhved  his  generation, 
his  old-world  learning  was  of  no  use  at  the  present  day,  his 
only  occupation  was  to  sing,  without  remuneration,  in  the 
*  "  Teacher,"  a  corruption  of  the  Greek  5t5c£<r/ca\os. 


122  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

church  choir  :  there,  at  least,  modern  education  had  not 
penetrated.  On  holidays  the  villagers  gathered  round  him 
and  hstened  with  attention  to  his  ever-attractive  stories, 
which  were,  like  prophecies,  intermingled  with  scraps  of 
Scripture.  Ognianoff  was  delighted  with  the  reminiscences 
of  this  aged  worker,  the  living  relic  of  a  past  epoch.  When 
a  man  is  in  affliction,  be  it  moral  or  physical,  his  soul  turns 
to  reUgion  ;  he  finds  at  once  a  consolation  in  the  words  of 
the  great  book.  It  assuages  his  pain  like  a  magic  balsam. 
Ognianoff  was  now^  for  the  first  time  experiencing  the 
soothing  effects  of  the  Scriptural  language  which  the  old  man 
mingled  with  his  own.  When  he  was  first  brought  to  the 
sick-bed,  old  Mina  said  sorrowfully  : 

"  Yet  another  Christian  victim — more  innocent  blood 
shed  !  How  long,  O  Lord,  shall  the  adversary  reproach  ? 
.  .  .  Why  withdrawest  Thou  Thy  right  hand  ?  Arise, 
Lord,  judge  !  Lift  up  Thy  hands  against  the  haughty  at 
last." 

And  he  greeted  him  and  inquired  into  his  case  with  warm 
interest.  But  when  Ognianoff  in  turning  round  groaned 
from  the  sharp  pain  caused  by  the  movement,  he  said 
pityuigly  : 

"  Keep  still,  my  son  :  Blessed  are  they  that  mourn,  for 
they  shall  be  comforted." 

"  Ah  !  Father  Mina,  we  are  fated  to  suffer  ;  it's  not  for 
nothing  they  call  us  apostles,"  said  Ognianoff  with  a^mile. 

"  Yours  is  a  hard  lot  in  this  world,  teacher — a  hard  lot ; 
but  it's  glorious  and  praiseworthy,  for  God  Himself  has 
chosen  you  to  serve  the  nation.  Ye  are  the  light  of  the 
world  :  a  city  that  is  set  upon  a  hill  cannot  be  hidden.  Did 
not  Christ  say  to  the  holy  apostles  :  The  harvest  truly  is 
great,  but  the  workers  are  few.  Go  your  ways  :  I  send  you 
as  lambs  among  the  wolves." 

These  simple  words  imparted  a  sweet  comfort  and  joy 
into  Ognianoff's  soul.  He  begged  the  old  man  to  give  him 
a  few  sacred  books  to  read  :  Mina  brought  him  the  Psalms. 
Ognianoff  began  with  ardour  to  read  those  inspired  com- 
positions, which  are  the  source  of  such  lofty  poesy.  These 
songs  of  battle,  of  despairing  lamentation,  and  impassioned 
prayer  awoke  a  response  in  him.  The  Psalms  of  David 
never  left  him. 

At  last,  in  process  of  time.  Father  Marin  went  to  Bela 
Cherkva.     Ognianoff   awaited   his   return  with  feverish 


AT  VERIGOVO  123 

excitement.  He  was  filled  with  forebodings  of  the  gloomiest 
description.  It  was  now  more  than  a  month  since  he  had 
any  news  of  those  who  were  dearest  to  him.  What  had 
become  of  Rada  ?  After  his  flight  to  what  sufferings,  to 
what  persecutions  had  she  not  been  exposed  on  his  account  ? 
She  was  left  alone  to  face  the  contumely  of  society,  perhaps 
even  the  vengeance  of  the  authorities.  Poor  girl,  she  was 
not  fated  to  be  happy  with  him.  The  poor  child  w^s  left 
exposed  once  more  to  the  attacks  of  fate,  foiled  in  her  most 
cherished  wishes,  and  perhaps  overwhelmed  by  the  con- 
tempt of  public  opinion.  Men's  cruelty  would  impute  her 
devotion  to  him  as  a  crime,  and  make  her  atone  by  many  a 
bitter  pang  for  the  short-lived  joys  her  love  for  him  had 
given  her.  And  he  was  not  there  to  console  her,  to  defend 
the  poor  weak  child. 

Plunged  in  these  dark  thoughts  he  hailed  old  Mina's 
appearance  with  joy.  At  least  there  was  some  one  to  open 
out  his  soul  to.     Old  Mina  listened  to  him  with  sympathy. 

"  Hope — hope  in  God,  teacher,"  said  he.  "Do  not 
despair  :  the  All-seeing  will  not  desert  the  suffering  who 
trust  in  His  mercy.  They  who  put  their  trust  in  the  Lord 
shall  see  Zion.  The  Lord  will  in  no  wise  desert  the  sinner 
who  repenteth.    They  that  sow  in  tears  shall  reap  in  joy." 

As  though  in  fulfilment  of  these  words  of  comfort,  the 
door  opened  and  old  Marin  entered. 

Ognianoff,  trembling  with  excitement,  tried  to  read  his 
news  in  his  face. 

"  Grood  evening — wait  a  bit,  teacher — I'll  tell  you  all 
about  it.  You're  not  too  tired,  are  you  ?  "  said  he,  taking 
off  his  heavy  cloak. 

"  Those  city  people  of  yours  are  a  funny  lot,"  added 
Marin  ;  "  they're  Uke  shadows — there's  no  getting  hold  of 
them." 

"  Didn't  you  go  straight  to  the  doctor  ?  " 

"  He's  arrested." 

"  Well,  the  deacon  at  the  monastery  ?  " 

"  The  deacon's  in  hiding." 

"  Did  you  find  old  Stoyan  ?  " 

"  God  have  mercy  upon  him.  !  Poor  fellow,  he  died  the 
night  they  arrested  him,  from  the  beating  he  got.  They  say 
he  told  them  the  whole  story,  under  torture." 

"  Oh  !  poor  Father  Stoyan  !     But  Rada,  Rada  ?  " 

"  I  wasn't  able  to  see  her." 


124  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  Why  ? — what's  become  of  her  ?  "     He  grew  pale. 

"  She's  there  all  right — don't  you  fret  yourself  ;  but 
they've  turned  her  out  of  the  school." 

*'  What !  Is  she  living  with  the  nuns  under  the  thumb  of 
Sister  Hajji  Rovoama  ?  "  cried  Ognianoff,  uneasily. 

"  No,  the  nun  turned  her  out,  too,  without  mercy." 

"  My  God — she  must  be  starving  in  the  streets  !  " 

"  No — Chorbaji  Marko  has  put  her  to  live  with  a  relation 
of  his,  but  I  couldn't  find  the  house,  and  my  mates  were  in 
a  hurry.     But  I  heard  she  was  all  right." 

"  Ah  !  that  Marko's  a  good  soul — there's  no  repaying 
what  he's  done  for  me.     But  what  do  they  say  about  me  ?  " 

"  About  you  ?  Why  they've  all  got  some  other  name  for 
you.     I  couldn't  make  out  what  they  were  at." 

"  What  ?  the  Count." 

"  That's  it — the  Count.  They  all  say  the  Count  was  shot 
in  the  Ahievo  thicket  by  sportsmen." 

"  Well,  that's  true  enough." 

"  Not  quite,  though,  because  here  you  are  alive,  while 
they  all  think  you're  dead,  and  so  much  the  better,  say  I." 

Ognianoff  started  as  if  a  serpent  had  stung  him. 

"  What  ?  and  does  she  think-me  dead,  too  ?  Is  the  poor 
girl  to  have  that  sorrow  as  well  ?  " 

He  leapt  across  the  room  as  though  to  start  off  at  once. 

"  Sit  still,  will  you — ^you'll  only  open  your  wound 
again." 

"  I  can  walk  quite  well  now,"  said  Ognianoff  with  a 
determined  air. 

"  And  where  are  you  going  to  walk  to,  pray  ?  "  asked  old 
Marin  astounded. 

"  Why,  to  Bela  Cherkva." 

"  Are  you  mad  ?  " 

"  Not  yet ;  but  I  shall  be  if  I  stop  here  another  day. 
Get  me  out  my  clothes.  Perhaps  you'll  lend  me  your 
horse  ?  " 

Old  Marin  knew  Ognianoff's  obstinacy  :  he  did  not  even 
attempt  to  restrain  him. 

"  You  can  take  the  clothes  and  the  horse  too.  Only 
I'm  sorry  for  the  sake  of  your  youths"  he  said  earnestly. 
"  Every  road's  patrolled  half  a  dozen  times  a  day  ;  there's 
no  end  to  their  raids  and  researches  ;  do  have  some  regard 
for  yourseK." 

"  Don't  you  trouble  about  me.    I'll  come  back  to  you 


AN  AWKWARD  PREDICAMENT  125 

safe  and  sound  as  a  hawk — ^provided  you'll  take  me  in 
again,"  said  Ognianoff,  half  in  jest. 

The  old  man  cast  a  dark  look  at  him. 

"  No  ;  I  won't  let  you  go,"  he  cried,  "  not  if  I  rouse  the 
whole  village,  and  keep  you  back  by  force.  We  want  you 
here — you're  like  the  Holy  Communion  to  us — and  you 
want  to  go,  for  them  to  kill  you.  Do  you  suppose  I'm 
going  to  have  it  said  afterwards,  'Old  Marin  let  Daskal 
Boicho,  our  apostle,  go  to  his  death  '  ?  " 

"  Not  so  loud,  Father  Marin — they'll  hear  you  outside," 
observed  Ognianoff. 

Old  Mina  smiled  under  his  moustache. 

And  Marin's  face  became  suddenly  hilarious. 

Ognianoff  looked  at  them  with  surprise.  His  last  words 
really  seemed  to  have  amused  them. 

"  What  are  you  laughing  at  ?  "  he  asked. 

"  Why,  God  bless  you,  teacher,  what  are  you  afraid  of  ? 
The  whole  village,  down  to  the  very  children,  know  you're 
here.  We've  all  been  taking  our  share  of  your  keep. 
We're  simple  folk,  but  we  won't  betray  a  Christian.  And  as 
for  you — why,  we'd  sell  our  lives  for  you  !  " 

This  time  it  was  Ognianoff's  turn  to  laugh  when  he  learnt 
that  the  whole  village  was  in  the  secret. 

After  much  debate,  Ognianoff  overcame  the  scruples  of 
his  host,  and  his  departure  was  decided  on. 

CHAPTER  XXII :    AN  AWKWARD  PREDICAMENT 
An  hour  later  a  Turk — or,  to  be  more  accurate,  a  Turkish 
priest — rode  out  of  the  village  of  Verigovo. 

A  faded  green  turban,  in  rags,  covered  his  forehead 
almost  to  the  eyes  ;  the  nape  of  his  neck  was  carefully 
shaved  ;  his  waistcoat  of  printed  calico,  open  at  the  throat, 
had  lost  nearly  all  its  buttons  ;  a  tattered  jacket  with  hang- 
ing sleeves  was  thrown  over  his  shoulders  ;  the  greasy 
leather  belt  round  his  waist  contained  a  flintlock  pistol,  a 
short  ramrod,  a  Sopot  yataghan,  and  a  chibouk  ;  on  his  feet 
he  wore  a  pair  of  slippers,  frayed  and  torn,  over  which  were 
strapped  Seimen  sandals,  and  his  costume  was  completed 
by  a  worn-out  cloak  of  the  native  shayak,  reaching  to  his 
feet. 

Ognianoff  was  thus  quite  unrecognisable. 

Winter  had  now  thoroughly  set  in  :    the  ground  was 


126  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

covered  with  a  deep  sheet  of  snow,  from  under  which  the 
rocky  peaks  of  the  Stara  Planina  rose  black  and  jagged. 
All  nature  was  silent  and  mournful :  nothing  living  could  be 
seen  save  the  huge  flocks  of  crows  that  flew  croaking 
through  the  drowsy  air. 

The  straight  path  to  Bela  Cherkva  was  towards  the  north- 
east :  however,  Ognianoff  avoided  it,  for  it  led  through 
Yemeksiz  Pehlivan's  village,  which  inspired  him  with  in- 
voluntary terror.  His  mind  dwelt  on  the  dead  man's  grey- 
hound, into  which  the  malignant  hostility  of  the  Turk 
seemed  to  have  passed,  so  as  to  pursue  and  terrify  Ognianoff 
even  from  the  grave.  Hence  he  determined  to  strike  to  the 
north,  and  make  for  the  inn  at  Kamara,  from  whence  he 
would  cross  the  spurs  of  the  Stara  Planina  eastwards,  and 
thus  reach  Bela  Cherkva.  This  would  considerably  lengthen 
his  journey,  but  the  danger  would  be  less,  though  he  would 
still  have  to  pass  through  Turkish  villages.  When  Ognianofl 
reached  the  first  village  the  snow  was  falling  in  thick  flakes, 
and  entirely  blocking  the  traveller's  view.  The  intense  cold 
had  quite  numbed  his  limbs — he  could  scarcely  hold  his 
horse's  rems  ;  indeed,  the  animal  had  been  guided  to  the 
village  more  l3y  instinct  than  anything  else,  for  no  trace  of 
the  path  was  to  be  seen  under  the  snow.  He  entered  the 
deserted  streets  of  the  village  unnoticed — not  a  soul  was 
visible  anywhere — and  made  his  way  to  the  only  inn  of  the 
place,  opposite  the  mosque.  He  was  anxious  to  rest  his 
horse,  which  was  much  exhausted  by  the  journey,  and  also 
to  warm  himself  a  little.  A  boy  came  out  and  took  charge 
of  his  horse  :  meanwhile,  he  made  for  the  door  of  the  inn, 
which  seemed  to  be  quite  empty,  as  not  a  sound  was  to  be 
heard.  But  no  sooner  had  he  entered  than  he  saw  with 
surprise  that  the  room  was  full  of  Turks.  To  retreat  was 
clearly  out  of  the  question.  He  decided  to  sit  down,  and 
greeted  the  whole  company  :  his  salute  was  courteously 
returned.  He  had  lived  long  among  Turks  and  was 
thoroughly  conversant  with  their  language  and  customs. 
The  guests  were  all  reclining  on  the  matting  on  the  floor, 
with  their  slippers  ofl  and  their  pipes  in  their  hands.  The 
room  was  dense  with  tobacco-smoke. 

"  A  cup  of  coffee,"  he  said  sternly  to  the  cafeji. 

He  proceeded  to  roll  a  cigarette,  bending  over  it  as  he 
did  so,  so  as  to  conceal  his  features  as  much  as  possible. 
While  he  sipped  his  coffee  he  listened  attentively  to  the 


AN  AWKWARD  PREDICAMENT  127 

conversation  going  on  in  a  low  tone  round  him.  For  a  time 
there  was  nothing  to  interest  him  :  suddenly  he  pricked  up 
his  ears,  the  death  of  the  two  bullies  had  come  under  dis- 
cussion. Such  an  event  had  never  been  heard  of  before  in 
the  neighbourhood,  and  the  Turks  were  infuriated  by  it.  A 
sudden  excitement  took  possession  of  the  company  in  the 
cafe,  which  had  till  then  been  so  quiet  and  phlegmatic. 
Angry  abuse  and  bloody  threats  were  uttered  against  the 
Bulgarians.  Ognianoff  continued  to  sip  his  coffee  with  a 
fierce  fro\^Ti  as  a  sign  that  he  shared  the  general  dissatisfac- 
tion. Suddenly  the  conversation  turned  on  the  slayer  of 
the  two  Turks,  and  he  saw  to  his  surprise  how  well-kno\^Ti 
his  own  name  and  person  were  :  there  were  already  legends 
current  about  him. 

"  This  ghiaour  of  a  Consul  is  not  to  be  found  or  recog- 
nised anywhere,"  said  one  of  those  present. 

"  He's  got  a  devil  who  helps  him  :  one  minute  he  appears 
as  a  teacher,  the  next  as  a  priest ;  to-day  he's  a  peasant, 
the  next  day  a  Turk — he  changes  his  appearance  in  a 
moment.  From  an  old  man  he  becomes  a  boy — one  day 
he's  short  and  dark — next  day  he's  as  tall  as  a  lamp-post, 
and  has  red  hair.  He's  not  to  be  caught.  Ahmed  Aga 
was  telling  me  they  once  got  on  his  track  and  sent  a 
patrol  after  him  into  the  thicket  by  the  monastery  ;  he 
was  dressed  in  peasant's  clothes.  Well,  suddenly  they  saw 
a  crow  before  them,  nothing  else,  no  peasant  or  any 
one.  Everybody  fired,"  but  the  bird  flew  quietly  off 
with  a  loud  croak." 

"  That's  nonsense,"  said  several. 

"  The  ghiaour  must  be  caught — only  we've  got  to  find 
his  nest  first,"  said  another. 

"  I  tell  you  the  cuckold  can't  be  found,"  added  the  first 
speaker.  "  I  don't  believe  he's  in  hiding  at  all — only  find 
him  if  you  can.  Why,  he  might  be  here  now  in  this  very 
cafe,  and  we  none  the  wiser." 

At  these  words,  every  one  mechanically  raised  his  eyes 
and  looked  round  him.  Some  inquisitive  glances  were 
directed  at  Ognianoff. 

The  latter  was  now  furiously  sipping  his  third  cup  of 
coffee,  and  emitting  every  now  and  then  a  thick  cloud  of 
smoke  which  half  concealed  him  from  view.  But  he  felt 
the  searching  looks  that  were  fixed  on  him  and  drops  of 
perspiration  rose  behind  his  turban.    He  could  no  longer 


128  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

endure  the  tension  of  such  a  situation,  and  was  eager  to 
leave  the  cafe  and  breathe  the  fresh  air  outside. 

"  Where  are  you  bound  for,  if  fate  wills  it  ?  "  some  one 
asked  him. 

"  For  Klissoura,  inshallah,"  answered  Ognianoff,  quietly, 
unrolling  a  long  twisted  purse  to  pay  his  score. 

"  What,  in  this  snow  and  storm  ?  You'd  better  stop 
here,  you'll  get  there  to-morrow." 

"  To  the  traveller  the  road — to  the  frog  the  marsh," 
answered  Ognianoff  with  a  smile. 

"  These  stories  of  yours  are  old  women's  tales,  Rahman 
Aga — your  ghiaour's  no  devil  or  crow,  but  a  '  Komita  ' 
like  every  other  '  Komita.'  " 

"  Well,  you  catch  him  then." 

"  So  we  will — we've  scented  his  nest." 

"  If  we  could  only  get  hold  of  him,"  cried  several  with 
looks  of  bloodthirsty  ferocity. 

"  I'll  stake  my  head  on  it  that  either  to-day  or  to-morrow 
the  Komita  Boicho  will  be  in  the  trap." 

"  Where  are  they  looking  for  the  dog  ?  " 

"  He's  hidden  in  some  ghiaour  village  of  the  Sredna 
Gora  where  he's  found  a  warm  nest.  Yesterday  some 
zapties  started  for  Bania  and  others  for  the  Abrashlar 
fields — we'll  get  him." 

"  Are  you  after  him  too  ?  " 

"  Yes.  We're  to  meet  at  Verigovo  and  begin  the  search 
there." 

It  was  then  only  that  Ognianoff  noticed  that  the  speaker 
was  a  zaptie — ^he  had  not  observed  him  in  the  corner.  The 
discovery  of  his  narrow  escape  from  Verigovo  increased  his 
dismay.  Their  suspicious  glances  fell,  but  the  cafe  was 
unendurable.     He  saluted  the  guests  and  went  out. 

When  he  was  once  more  outside  in  the  fresh  air,  at 
liberty  under  the  snowy  sky,  he  took  a  deep  breath  of 
relief,  and  leaped  on  his  horse. 


CHAPTER  XXIII :    THE  SEWING-PARTY  AT 
ALTINOVO 

Instead  of  making  for  Bela  Cherkva,  Ognianoff  now  turned 
back  towards  Altinovo,  a  village  which  lay  in  the  western 
comer  of  the  valley.  It  was  a  two  hours'  journey,  but  his 
horse  was  exhausted  and  the  road  was  bad,  so  that  he  only 


THE  SEWING-PARTY  AT  ALTINOVO       129 

just  reached  the  village  before  dark,  pursued  right  up  to  the 
outskirts  by  the  famished  howls  of  the  wolves.    • 

He  entered  by  the  Bulgarian  quarter  (the  village  was  a 
mixed  one,  containing  both  Turks  and  Bulgarians)  and 
soon  stopped  before  old  Tsanko's  door. 

Tsanko  was  by  birth  a  native  of  Klissoura,  but  had  long 
ago  taken  up  his  abode  in  the  village.  He  was  a  simple, 
kmdly  peasant  and  a  warm  patriot.  The  apostles  often 
slept  at  his  house.     He  received  Ognianoff  with  open  arms. 

"  It  is  a  piece  of  luck  your  coming  to  me.  We've  got 
a  sewing -party  on  to-night — you  can  have  a  good  look  at 
our  girls.  You  won't  find  the  time  heavy  on  your  hands, 
I'll  be  bound,"  said  Tsanko  with  a  smile,  as  he  showed  the 
way  in. 

Ognianoff  hastened  to  tell  him  that  he  was  being  pursued, 
and  for  what  reason. 

"  Yes,  yes,  I  know  all  about  it,"  said  Tsanko,  "  you  don't 
suppose  just  because  our  village  is  a  bit  out  of  the  way  that 
we  know  nothing  of  what  goes  on  outside  ?  " 

"  But  sha'n't  I  be  putting  you  out  ?  " 

"  Don't  you  mind,  I  tell  you.  You  must  look  out  among 
the  girls  to-night  for  one  to  carry  the  flag,"  laughed  Tsanko, 
"  there — you  can  see  them  all  from  this  window,  like  a 
king." 

Ognianoff  was  in  a  small,  dark  closet,  the  window  of 
which,  covered  with  wooden  treUis-work,  looked  on  to  the 
large  common  room  ;  here  the  se^dng-party  was  already 
assembling.  It  was  a  meeting  of  the  principal  girls  of  the 
village,  the  object  being  to  assist  in  making  the  trousseau 
for  Tsanko's  daughter  Donka.  The  fire  burned  brightly 
and  lighted  up  the  walls,  which  boasted  no  ornament  save 
a  print  of  St.  Ivan  of  Rilo  and  the  bright,  glazed  dishes  on 
the  shelves .  The  furniture — as  in  most  well-to-do  villagers' 
houses — consisted  of  a  water-butt,  a  wardrobe,  a  shelf,  and 
the  great  cupboard  which  contained  all  Tsanko's  household 
goods.  All  the  guests,  both  male  and  female,  were  seated 
on  the  floor,  which  was  covered  with  skins  and  carpets. 
Besides  the  light  of  the  fire  there  were  also  two  petroleum 
lamps  burning — a  special  luxury  in  honour  of  the  occasion. 

It  was  long  since  Ognanioff  had  been  present  at  a 
gathering  of  this  kind — a  curious  custom  sanctioned  by 
antiquity.  From  his  dark  recess  he  watched  with  interest 
the  simple  scenes  oL  the  still  primitive  village  life.    The 


130  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

door  opened,  and  Tsanko's  wife  came  to  him — she  was  a 
buxom  and  talkative  dame,  also  from  Klissoura.  She  sat 
down  by  Ognianoff's  side  and  began  to  point  out  to  him  the 
most  remarkable  girls  present,  with  the  necessary  details. 

"  Do  you  see  that  fat,  rosy-cheeked  girl  there  ?  That's 
Staiika  Chonina.  See  what  a  sad,  sad  look  Ivan  Kill-the- 
Bear  gives  her  now  and  again.  He  barks  for  her  like  a 
sheep-dog  when  he  wants  to  make  her  laugh.  She's  very 
industrious,  quick-witted,  and  cleanly.  Only  she  ought  to 
marry  at  once,  poor  girl — she's  getting  so  fat ;  she'll  be 
thinner  after  marriage.  It's  just  the  opposite  of  your  town- 
girls.  The  girl  to  the  left  of  her  is  Tsveta  Prodanova  :  she 
is  in  love  with  the  lad  over  there,  with  his  moustache 
sticking  out  Hke  a  skewer.  She's  a  lively  one  for  you — 
see  her  eyes  in  every  comer  of  the  room  at  once  ;  but 
she's  a  good  girl.  That's  Draganoff's  Tsveta  by  her  side  ; 
and  next  to  her  Raika,  the  Pope's  daughter.  I'd  rather 
have  those  two  than  twenty  of  your  fine  ladies  from 
Phihppopolis.  Do  you  see  their  white  throats,  just  like 
ducks  ?  Why,  I  once  caught  my  Tsanko  saying  he'd  give 
his  vineyard  at  Mai  Tepe,  just  to  be  allowed  to  kiss  one  of 
them  on  the  chin  !  Didn't  I  just  box  his  ears  for  him,  the 
vagabond  !  Do  you  see  that  girl  to  the  right  of  fat 
Staika  ?  That's  Kara  VeUo's  daughter :  she's  a  great 
swell ;  five  young  fellows  have  already  been  after  her,  but 
her  father  wouldn't  have  anything  to  say  to  them.  He's 
keeping  her  for  somebody,  the  old  weasel — you  know  he 
looks  just  Hke  a  weasel.  Ivan  Nedelioff  '11  have  her,  or  I'll 
bite  my  tongue  out.  There's  Rada  Milkina  :  she  sings  like 
the  nightingale  on  our  plum-tree — but  she's  a  lazybones, 
between  ourselves.  I'd  rather  have  Dimka^  Todorova, 
standing  over  there  by  the  shelf  :  there's  a  blooming  rose 
for  you  !  If  I  was  a  bachelor  I'd  propose  to  her  at  once. 
Why  don't  you  take  her  yourself  ?  That's  the  Peeff's  girl 
standing  by  our  Donka.  She's  a  pretty  girl,  and  industrious 
into  the  bargain — so  they  say  she's  as  good  as  our  Donka. 
She's  got  a  sweet  voice,  hke  Rada  Milkina,  and  laughs  like 
a  swallow  twittering  ;  you  listen  to  her." 

As  she  stood  there  by  Boicho  in  the  dark,  she  reminded 
him  of  the  scene  in  the  "  Divina  Commedia,"  where 
Beatrice,  at  the  gate  of  hell,  points  out  to  Dante  one  by  one 
the  condemned,  and  tells  him  their  history. 

Ognianofi!  listened  more  or  less  attentively  :    he  was 


THE  SEWING-PARTY  AT  ALTINOVO        131 

entirely  absorbed  by  the  picture,  and  oared  little  for  the 
explanations.  The  bolder  among  the  girls  jested  with  the 
lads,  flirted  with  them  archly,  and  laughed  merrily  the 
while.  They  were  answered  by  the  deep  guffaws  of  the 
youths,  who  looked  shyly  across  at  the  weaker  sex.  Jests, 
taunts,  and  chaff  followed  in  one  continual  flow  :  loud 
laughter  was  called  forth  by  jokes  with  a  double  meaning, 
which  sometimes  brought  the  hot  blush  to  the  girls'  cheeks. 
Tsanko  alone  took  part  in  the  merry-making.  His  wife 
was  busy  with  the  stew-pan,  where  the  supper  was  preparing. 
As  for  Donka,  she  couldn't  stay  still  for  a  moment. 

"  Come,  you've  chaffed  each  other  enough  now  ;  suppose 
you  give  us  a  song,"  cried  the  housewife,  as  she  left  Boicho 
and  returned  to  her  saucepans  on  the  fire.  "  Now,  then, 
Rada,  Stanka,  sing  something  and  put  the  young  men  to 
shame.  Young  men  are  not  worth  a  brass  button  nowa- 
days :  they  can't  sing." 

Rada  and  Stanka  did  not  wait  to  be  asked  twice.  They 
at  once  began  a  song  which  was  taken  up  by  all  those 
girls  who  could  sing  ;  these  at  once  formed  into  two 
choruses  :  the  first  sang  one  verse,  and  then  waited  while 
the  second  repeated  it.  The  better  singers  were  in  the  first 
choir,  which  consisted  of  alto  voices,  the  others  repeating 
the  verse  in  a  lower  key. 

The  following  are  the  words  of  the  song  they  sang  : 

"  Well-a-day  !  the  youthful  couple  ;  well-a-day  !  they  fell  in 

love  ; 
Well-a-day  I  in    love    they'd   fallen ;    well-a-day !   from 

earliest  youth. 
Well-a-day  !  they  met  each  other  ;  well-a-day  !  last  night 

they  met. 
Well-a-day  !  all  in  the  darkness  ;  well-a-day  !  just  down 

the  street. 
Well-a-day  !  the  silver  moonlight  ;  well-a-day  !  shone  down 

on  them. 
Well-a-day  !  the  stars  were  twinkling  ;  well-a-day  !  within 

the  sky. 
Yet,  well-a-day  !  the  youthful  couple  ;  well-a-day  !  they're. 

sitting  still. 
Well-a-day  /  yes,  still  they're  sitting  ;  well-a-day  !  in  loving 

talk. 
Well-a-day  !  her  jug  of  water  ;  weU-a-day  /  it's  frozen  hard^ 


132  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

Wdl-a-day  !  his  oaken  cudgel  ;  well-a-day  !  how  long  it's 

groum. 
But,  well-a-day  I  the  youthful  couple  ;  well-a-day  !  they're 

sitting  yet  I " 

When  the  song  came  to  an  end  the  youths  were  loud  in 
applause  :  it  appealed  to  every  one  of  them  ;  its  pleasing 
refrain  brought  up  memories  of  past  experience.  As  for 
Ivan  Kill-the-Bear,  he  was  devouring  Staika  Chonina  with 
his  eyes  ;  he  was  deeply  in  love  with  her. 

"  That's  the  kind  of  song  to  sing  over  again — ay,  and  to 
act  all  day  long,"  he  cried,  in  his  deep  bass  voice. 

All  the  girls  laughed,  and  many  an  arch  look  was  cast  at 
Kill-the-Bear. 

He  was  a  perfect  mountain  of  a  man,  of  gigantic  stature 
and  herculean  strength,  with  a  big,  bony  face,  but  not  over 
bright.  However,  he  was  great  at  singing — that  is  to  say, 
his  voice  corresponded  with  his  size.  He  now  became 
cross,  and  withdrew  silently  behind  the  girls,  where  he 
suddenly  barked  like  an  old  sheep-dog.  The  girls  started 
in  terror  at  first,  and  then  laughed  at  him,  and  the  bolder 
ones  among  them  began  to  tease  him  :  one  of  them  sang, 
mockingly  : 

"  Ivan,  you  hright-hued  turtle-dove, 
Ivan,  you  slender  poplar" 

Another  added  : 

"  Ivan,  you  shaggy,  old  she-hear, 
Ivan,  you  lanky  clothes-prop  !  '' 

More  giggling  and  laughter  followed.  Ivan  became 
furious.  He  stared  in  dumb  bewilderment  at  the  rosy- 
cheeked  Staika  Chonina,  who  mocked  so  unkindly  her 
fervent  adorer  ;  he  opened  a  mouth  like  a  boa -constrictor's, 
and  roared  out  : 

"  Said  Peika's  aunt  one  day  to  her 
'  Why,  Peika  girl  ;  why,  Peika  girl, 
The  people  freely  talk  of  you. 
The  people,  all  the  neighbours  say. 
That  you've  become  so  fat  and  full, 
That  you're  so  plump  and  fleshy  now. 
All  through  your  uncle's  shepherd  lad.* 
*  Oh  Aunty  dear,  oh  darling  aunt. 


THE  SEWING-PARTY  AT  ALTINOVO       133 

Let  people  freely  talk  of  me, 
Let  people,  all  the  neighbours  say, 
That  if  Fmfat  and  fleshy  now, 
If  Fve  become  so  plump  and  full, 
Ws  from  my  father's  wheaten  bread. 
My  father's  white  and  wheaten  bread  ; 
For  while  I  kneed  it  in  the  trough, 
A  basket-full  of  grapes  I  pluck, 
And  drink  ajar  of  red,  red  wine.'  " 

Staika  blushed  at  this  bitter  inuendo  ;  her  red  cheeks 
became  as  fiery  as  if  she  had  dyed  them  in  cochineal.  The 
spiteful  giggles  of  the  other  girls  pierced  her  to  the  heart. 
Some,  with  assumed  simpKcity,  asked  : 

"  Why,  however  can  one  pick  grapes  and  drink  wine  at 
the  same  time  ?     The  song  must  be  all  wrong." 

"  Why,  of  course,  either  the  song's  wrong  or  else  the  girl's 
wrong,"  answered  another. 

This  cutting  criticism  still  further  enraged  Staika.  She 
threw  a  crushing  look  at  the  triumphant  Ivan,  and  sang  in 
a  voice  that  quivered  with  rage  : 

''  '  Oh  Peika,  brighter  than  the  poppy 
Is  all  your  needlework  so  fine 
And  all  my  many  many  visits 
Are  all  of  these  to  be  in  vain  ? 
Gome,  Peika,  won't  you  have  me,  dear  ?  ' 
*  Why,  Yonko,  why,  you  filthy  drudge, 
Could  Peika  ever  fall  in  love 
With  such  a  swine-herd  as  yourself  ; 
A  swine-herd,  and  a  cattle  drover — 
Some  wealthy  farmer's  filthy  drudge  ; 
She'd  put  you  down  before  the  door, 
The  little  door  behind  the  house  ; 
That,  when  she  passes  in  and  out, 
To  fetch  the  calves  and  heifers  in. 
If  she  should  chance  to  soil  her  shoes, 
She'd  wipe  them  clean  upon  your  back." 

It  was  a  crushing  repartee  to  a  savage  attack. 

Staika  now  looked  proudly  round  her.  Her  shaft  had 
struck  home.  Ivan  Kill-the-Bear  stood  motionless,  as  if 
transfixed,  with  staring  eyes.  A  loud  peal  of  laughter 
greeted  his  discomfiture.     The  whole  party  was  gazing 


134  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

curiously  at  him.  Tears  started  to  his  eyes  from  very 
shame  and  wounded  vanity.  The  spectators  laughed  still 
louder.     The  mistress  of  the  house  became  angry. 

"  What's  the  meaning  of  all  this,  girls  ?  Is  this  the  way 
to  behave  with  the  lads,  instead  of  being  kind  and  pleasant 
to  one  another,  as  you  ought  to  ?  Staika — Ivan — you 
ought  to  be  cooing  together  like  a  pair  of  turtle-doves." 

"  It's  only  lovers  who  quarrel,"  said  Tsanko  in  a  con- 
ciliatory tone. 

Ivan  Kill-the-Bear  rose  and  went  out  angrily,  as  if  to 
protest  against  these  words. 

"  Like  loves  like,"  averred  Neda  Liagovitcha. 

"  Well,  Neda,  God  loves  a  good  laugher,"  said  Kono 
Goran,  Kill-the  Bear's  cousin. 

"  Now,  boys,  sing  us  some  old  haidoud  song,  to  put  a 
little  life  into  us,"  said  Tsanko.     The  lads  sang  in  chorus  : 

"  Alas  for  poor  Stoyan,  alas  ! 
Two  ambushes  they  laid  for  him, 
But  in  the  third  they  captured  him. 
The  cruel  ropes  they've  fastened  round  him — 
They've  hound  his  strong  and  manly  arms. 
Alas  !  they've  carried  poor  Stoyan 
To  Erin's  house,  the  village  Pope. 
Two  buxom  daughters  had  the  Pope, 
And  Bouja,  a  step-daughter,  too  : 
But  Bouja  sat  and  milked  the  cow 
Beside  the  little  garden  gate, 
While  they  were  sweeping  in  the  yard, 
And  gaily  cried  the  sisters  twain  : 
'  Ha  !  ha  !  Stoyan'  they  cried  to  him  : 
'  To-morrow  morn  they'll  hang  you  up. 
Before  the  palace  of  the  king — 
You'll  dangle  for  the  queen  to  see. 
And  all  the  princes  and  princesses.^ 
But  Stoyan  softly  said  to  Bouja, 
'  Dear  Bouja,  you  the  Pope's  step-daughter^ 
It's  not  my  life  I  care  about. 
It's  not  for  the  bright  world  I  mourn — 
A  brave  man  never  weeps  or  mourns  ; 
But  yet,  I  beg  you,  Bouja  dear, 
Oh  !  let  them  put  a  clean  shirt  on  me. 
And  let  them  brush  and  deck  my  hair — 


THE  SEWING-PARTY  AT  ALTINOVO       135 

Thafs  all  I  ask  for,  Rouja  dear. 
For  when  a  man's  led  out  to  die, 
His  shirt  should  spotless  be,  and  white. 
His  hair  should  be  arrayed  and  trimJ  " 

Ognianofif  listened  with  secret  excitement  to  the  close  of 
the  song. 

"  This  Stoyan,"  he  thought,  "  is  the  very  type  of  the 
legendary  Bulgarian  haidoud,  with  his  calm  courage  in 
facing  death.  Not  a  word  of  sorrow,  of  despair,  or  even  of 
hope.  He  only  wants  to  die  looking  his  best.  Ah  !  if  this 
heroical  fataHsm  has  only  passed  into  the  Bulgarian  of 
to-day,  I  shall  be  quite  easy  in  mind  as  to  the  end  of  our 
struggle.  That's  the  struggle  I  seek  for — that's  the  strength 
I  want — to  know  how  to  die,  that's  half  the  battle." 

Just  then  the  kavala,  or  shepherd's  reed-pipes  struck  up. 
Their  sound,  at  first  low  and  melancholy,  swelled  gradually 
and  rose  higher  and  higher  :  the  eyes  of  the  pipers  flashed, 
their  faces  flushed  with  excitement,  the  clear  notes  rang  out 
and  filled  the  night  with  their  weird  mountain  melody. 
They  summoned  up  the  spirit  of  the  Balkan  peaks  and 
gorges,  they  recalled  the  darkness  of  the  mountain  glades, 
the  rustling  of  the  leaves  at  noon  while  the  sheep  are  resting, 
the  scent  of  the  corn-flower,  the  echoes  of  the  rocks,  and  the 
cool,  sweet  air  of  the  valleys.  The  reed-pipe  is  the  harp 
of  the  Bulgarian  mountains  and  plains. 

All  were  now  listening  enchanted  as  they  drank  in  the 
familiar  and  friendly  sounds  of  the  poetic  music.  Tsanko 
and  his  wife,  standing  with  clasped  hands  by  the  fire, 
listened  as  if  entranced.  But  the  most  affected  of  all  was 
Ognianoff,  who  could  scarcely  keep  from  applauding. 

The  brisk  conversation  and  merry  laughter  soon  broke 
out  again.  But  Ognianoff  began  to  listen  to  what  was  being 
said,  for  he  heard  his  name  mentioned.  Petr  Ovcharoff, 
Raichin,  Spirdonoff,  Ivan  Ostenoff,  and  a  few  others  were 
talking  of  the  coming  insurrection. 

"  I'm  ready  for  the  fun  now,  I'm  only  waiting  for  my 
revolver  from  Philippopolis.  I've  sent  the  money,  170 
piastres.  That's  the  price  of  three  rams,"  said  Petr 
Ovcharoff,  the  president  of  the  local  committee. 

"  Yes,  but  we  don't  know  when  the  flag's  to  be  raised. 
Some  say  we  shall  blood  our  knives  at  the  Annunciation, 
other's  at  St.  Gregory's  Day,  and  Uncle  Bojil  says  not  till 


136  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

the  end  of  May,"  said  Spirdonoff,  a  handsome,  well-built 
lad. 

"  It'll  be  somewhere  about  the  coming  of  the  cuckoo, 
when  the  woods  are  getting  green  ;  but  I'm  ready  now, 
they've  only  to  give  the  word." 

**  Well,  well ;  our  Stara  Planina  has  sheltered  many  a 
brave  fellow  before  now,  it'll  shelter  us  too,"  said  Ivan 
Ostenoff. 

"  Petr — didn't  you  say  the  teacher  had  killed  two  of 
them  ?     There's  a  plucky  one  for  you." 

"  When's  he  going  to  pay  us  a  visit  ?  I  want  to  kiss  the 
hand  that  polished  them  off,"  asked  Raichin. 

"  He's  got  a  start  of  us,  has  the  teacher,  but  we  must  try 
and  catch  him  up.  I  know  something  of  the  game  myself," 
answered  Ivan  Ostenoff. 

Ivan  Ostenoff  was  a  bold  youth  and  a  good  shot  as  well. 
Popular  rumour  ascribed  the  death  of  Deli  Ahmed  last  year 
'to  him,  and  the  Turks  had  long  tried  to  get  hold  of  him, 
but  so  far  ineffectually. 

At  supper  Ognianoff's  health  was  drank. 

"  God  grant  that  we  may  soon  see  him  here  safe  and 
sound.  Take  an  example  from  him,  boys,"  said  Tsanko,  as 
he  swallowed  his  wine. 

"  I'll  bet  any  one  whatever  he  likes,"  said  Tsanko's  wife 
impatiently,  "  that  teacher'll  be  here  the  first  thing  to- 
morrow, Uke  a  hawk." 

"  What  are  you  talking  of,  Boulka  *  Tsanko vitsa — why, 

I'm  off  to  K to-morrow,"  said  Raichin,  regretfully.   "  If 

he  comes  you  must  keep  him  for  Christmas,  and  we'll  enjoy 
ourselves  together." 

"  What's  all  that  noise  outside  ?  "  cried  Tsanko  leaving 
his  wine  and  getting  up. 

In  truth,  men's  and  women's  voices  were  heard  making 
an  uproar  outside.  Tsanko  and  his  wife  ran  out.  The 
guests  rose  to  follow.  Just  then  the  mistress  of  the  house 
rushed  in,  in  great  excitement,  and  cried  : 

"  Well,  that  business  is  finished.     God  prosper  it." 

"  What  ?     What  ?  "    - 

"  Kill-the-Bear's  carried  off  Staika  !  " 

*  "  Boulka  "  is  the  title  given  to  a  young  or  middle-aged  wife,  who 
on  growing  old  exchanges  it  for  "  Baba,"  grandmother.  Both  names 
are  followed  by  the  feminine  derivative  from  the  husband's  name,  thua 
Tsanko,  Tsanko  vitsa  ;   Avram,  Avramitsa, 


GOD  IS  TOO  HIGH  AND  TSAR  TOO  FAR      137 

Every  one  started  with  surprise  at  the  news. 

"  Carried  her  off,  he  has,  the  lad,  on  his  shoulder,  as  you 
would  a  lamb  on  St.  Gregory's  Day  ;  now,  they're  at  his 
house." 

Her  hearers  began  to  laugh. 

"  Well,  what  of  it  ?  That's  why  he  went  away  so  early 
with  his  Cousin  Goran." 

"  He  laid  in  wait  for  her  by  the  door,"  continued  Boulka 
Tsankovitsa,  "  and  carried  her  off.  I'm  sorry  for  them 
both.     Who'd  have  thought  it  of  Kill-the-Bear  ?  " 

"  Well,  well,  they're  a  pretty  pair,"  said  some  one. 

"  She's  just  like  a  fat  little  Servian  pig,  and  he's  a  Hun- 
garian bull,"  laughed  another. 

"  God  bless  'em  both  ;  we'll  drink  cherry  brandy  with 
them  to-morrow,"  said  Tsanko. 

'*  Yes,  and  I  shall  claim  my  perquisite,"  said  his  wife. 
"  I  must  have  my  embroidered  sleeves,  because  the  match 
was  arranged  at  my  house." 

Soon  after  all  the  guests  left  in  high  glee. 


CHAPTER  XXIV  :  GOD  IS  TOO  HIGH  AND  THE  TSAR 
TOO  FAR 

Tsanko  hastened  to  Ognianoff  in  the  dark  closet. 
'*  Well,  Boicho,  how  did  you  like  our  party  ?  " 
**  Oh,  it  was  wonderful,  dehghtful,  Tsanko." 
"  Did  you  take  down  the  words  of  the  songs  ?  " 
*'  How  could  I  ?     There's  no  light  to  write  by." 
In  came  Tsanko 's  wife  with  a  candle  in  her  hand. 
"  There's  some  one  knocking  at  the  door,"  said  she. 
"  That'll  be  some  one  from  Staika,  most  likely.     Perhaps 

she   wants    our    Donka    to  go    to    her,    you   must  send 

her." 

But  Donka  came  in  and  said  that  there  were  two  zapties 

outside,  brought  by  old  Deiko,  the  village  mayor. 

"  The  devil  take  them,   zapties,   old  Deiko,   and  all  ! 

Where  am  I  to  put  the  swine  ?     They're  not  come  after 

you,"  he  said  to  Ognianoff,  reassuringly,  "  but  you'd  better 

hide.     Wife,  just  show  the  teacher  where  to  go." 

And  Tsanko  went  out.     Soon  he  brought  in  the  two 

zapties,  muffled  up  in  their  cloaks,  and  drenched  with  snow. 

They  were  furious. 

*'  What  do  you  mean  by  keeping  us  an  hour  at  the  door, 


138  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

you  cuckold  ?  "  cried  the  first,  a  one-eyed  zap  tie,  as  he 
shook  the  snow  from  his  cloak. 

"  You  left  us  freezing  outside  while  you  were  making  up 
your  mind  to  open,"  grumbled  the  other,  a  short,  stout  man. 

Tsanko  muttered  some  excuse. 

"  What  are  you  muttering  about  ?  Go  and  kill  a  chicken 
for  us,  and  get  some  eggs  fried  in  butter  at  once  !  " 

Tsanko  tried  to  say  something.  The  one-eyed  zaptie 
burst  out : 

"  None  of  your  talk,  ghiaour  ;  go  and  tell  your  wife  to 
get  supper  ready  at  once.     Do  you  suppose  we're  going  to 

finish  up  your  d d  jam  tart  crumbs  and  nutshells  for 

you  ?  "  he  said,  with  a  contemptuous  look  at  the  remains  of 
the  little  feast,  not  yet  cleared  up. 

Tsanko  moved  helplessly  towards  the  door  to  carry  out 
his  orders.     The  short  one  called  after  him  : 

"  Stop  a  minute,  what  have  you  done  with  the  girls  ?  " 

"  They  went  home  long  ago  ;  it's  late,"  answered  Tsanko, 
trembhng  all  over. 

"  Just  you  go  and  fetch  them  back  to  have  supper  with 
us  and  pour  out  our  raki.  What  do  you  mean  by  sending 
them  home  ?  " 

Tsanko  gazed  at  him  in  terror. 

"  Where's  your  daughter  ?  " 

"  She's  gone  to  bed,  Aga." 

"  Make  her  get  up  to  wait  on  us,"  said  the  one-eyed 
zaptie,  taking  off  his  boots  to  dry  them  at  the  fire,  while  the 
water  dripped  from  them  and  a  cloud  of  steam  rose. 

The  mayor  just  then  came  in  and  stood  humbly  by  the 
door. 

"  You  infernal  pig  !  you've  led  us  round  twenty  houses, 
knocking  at  door  after  door,  like  beggars — where  have  you 
hidden  your " 

And  he  called  the  girls  by  a  foul  epithet. 

The  Bulgarians  remained  silent.  They  were  used  to  this. 
Centuries  of  slavery  had  taught  them  the  proverb,  so  degrad- 
ing for  humanity  :  "  The  sword  does  not  strike  the  bowed 
head."  Tsanko  only  prayed  Heaven  that  they  might  not 
molest  his  daughter. 

"  Look  here,"  asked  the  one-eyed  zaptie,  "  are  you  pre- 
paring for  a  rebeUion  ?  " 

Tsanko  boldly  denied  the  charge. 

"  Well,  what's  this  doing  here,  then  ?  "  asked  the  short 


GOD  IS  TOO  HIGH  AND  TSAR  TOO  FAR      139 

one,  taking  up  Petr  Ovcharoff's  long  knife,  which  had  been 
forgotten  on  the  floor. 

"  Oh  !  you're  not  preparing  for  a  rebeUion,  aren't  you  ?  " 
asked  the  first,  with  a  diabohcal  smile. 

"  No,  Aga,  we're  peaceful  subjects  of  his  Majesty," 
answered  Tsanko,  trying  to  keep  calm  ;  "  the  knife  must 
have  been  left  behind  by  one  of  the  guests." 

''  Whose  is  it  ?  " 

"  I  don't  know." 

The  zap  ties  began  examining  the  blade,  which  was 
engraved  with  letters  inlaid  with  gold,  surrounded  by  a 
fancy  pattern. 

"  What  do  these  letters  mean  ?  "  they  asked  Tsanko. 

He  looked  at  the  knife  :  on  one  side  there  was  a  wreath 
of  flowers  engraved,  towards  the  blunt  edge,  containing  the 
words  "  Liberty  or  Death  "  ;  the  other  side  bore  the 
owner's  name. 

"  It's  only  an  ornament,"  said  Tsanko. 

The  one-eyed  zapti6  struck  him  in  the  face  with  his 
muddy  boot. 

"  Ghiaour  !  Do  you  suppose  I'm  blind  because  I've  got 
only  one  eye  ?  " 

Tsanko 's  reply  had  aroused  their  suspicions. 

"  Mayor,  just  come  here." 

The  mayor  came  in  with  a  cake  of  bread  on  a  brass 
platter,  which  he  was  bringing  to  be  baked  in  Tsanko's 
oven.  He  trembled  when  he  saw  the  naked  dagger  in  the 
zaptie's  hand. 

"  Read  this  !  " 

The  mayor  looked  at  it,  and  drew  himseK  up  in  dismay. 

*'  I  can't  make  it  out  properly,  Aga  !  " 

The  short  one  took  his  Circassian  whip.  The  lash  hissed 
in  the  air  and  curled  twice  round  the  mayor's  neck.  A 
stream  of  blood  flowed  from  his  cheek. 

"  You're  all  a  set  of  traitors." 

The  mayor  wiped  away  the  blood  silently. 

*'  Read  it  out,  or  I'll  stick  the  knife  into  your  throat  !  " 
cried  the  zaptie.  The  bewildered  mayor  saw  there  was  no 
help  for  it — he  must  bow  before  them. 

"  Petr  Ovcharoff,"  he  read  with  assumed  hesitation. 

"  Do  you  know  him  ?  " 

"  He  belongs  to  our  village." 

"  Is  that  the  fellow  they    call  Petr  the  shepherd  ?  " 


140  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

asked  the  one-eyed  one,  who  evidently  knew  a  little 
Bulgarian. 

*'  Yes,  Aga,"  said  the  mayor,  handing  him  the  knife,  with 
a  silent  prayer  of  thanksgiving  to  the  Holy  Trinity  that  the 
terrible  words  on  the  other  side  had  been  passed  over. 
But  he  went  too  fast. 

"  Now  see  what  it  says  on  the  other  side,"  said  the  zaptie. 

The  mayor  bent  in  abject  terror  over  the  other  side. 
He  hesitated  for  some  time.  But  when  he  saw  that  the 
short  zaptie  was  getting  his  whip  ready  again,  he  cried  : 

"  It  says,  '  Liberty  or  Death,'  Aga." 

The  one-eyed  zaptie  started.  "  What,  liberty,  eh  ?  "  he 
said,  smiling  ominously.  "  Who  is  it  who  makes  these 
knives  ?     Where's  Petr  the  shepherd  ?  " 

"  Where  should  he  be,  Aga  ?    At  home,  of  course." 

"  Go  and  fetch  him." 

The  mayor  moved  off. 

"  Wait ;   I'll  come  with  you,  you  fool !  ' 

And  the  short  zaptie  took  up  his  cloak  and  went  out 
with  him. 

*'  That's  right.  Youssouf  Aga  ;  this  shepherd  seems  a 
thorough  brigand,"  said  the  other. 

Meanwhile,  Tsanko  passed  into  the  kitchen,  where  his 
wife  was  preparing  the  supper,  cursing  the  Turks  as  she 
did  so  :  "  May  God  destroy  them — may  He  cut  them  off 
root  and  branch — may  the  pestilence  fall  on  them  and  rot 
their  bones — ^may  they  die  of  poison  !  To  think  that  I 
should  be  cooking  meat  and  butter  for  them  just  before 
Christmas  !  What  brought  the  accursed  heathen  here,  to 
terrify  and  destroy  us  ?  " 

*'  Donka,  dear,"  said  Tsanko  to  his  daughter,  who  stood, 
pale  and  terrified,  at  the  door,  "  you'd  better  slip  out  by 
the  back  way,  and  go  and  sleep  at  your  uncle's." 

"  And  what  does  Deiko  mean  by  bringing  them  here 
again  ?  It  was  only  last  week  he  brought  us  two,"  mur- 
mured his  wife. 

'*  What's  he  to  do,  poor  fellow  ?  "  said  Tsanko.  "  He 
took  them  everywhere.  They  wanted  to  come  here — 
they'd  heard  the  songs.  As  it  is  he's  had  five  or  six  cuts 
of  the  whip." 

Tsanko  went  back  to  the  one-eyed  zapti6. 

"  Chorbaji,  where  have  you  been  to  ?  Just  bring  a  little 
salad  and  some  raki." 


GOD  IS  TOO  HIGH  AND  TSAR  TOO  FAR      141 

"  The  shepherd's  not  there,"  cried  the  short  zaptie  at 
that  moment,  as  he  returned  with  the  mayor. 

"  Well,  we  must  find  the  rascally  '  Komita,'  if  we  have  to 
turn  the  whole  village  upside  down,"  said  the  one-eyed 
man,  drinking. 

"  What  do  you  say  to  giving  the  old  boy  another  taste 
of  the  stick  ?  "  asked  the  short  one,  in  a  low  voice,  adding 
something  in  a  whisper.  His  comrade  winked  mth  his  only 
eye,  in  assent. 

"  Mayor,  go  and  fetch  the  father  here  ;  we  want  to  ask 
him  something — and  fill  this  at  the  same  time,"  said 
Youssouf  Aga,  handing  him  the  empty  raki  bottle. 

"  It's  too  late  for  that,  Aga — ^the  shop's  shut." 

The  only  reply  was  a  blow  in  the  face  from  the  one-eyed 
zaptie.  He  was  naturally  a  Uttle  more  humane  than  the 
other,  but  drink,  or  the  desire  for  it,  maddened  him  in  a 
moment. 

A  quarter  of  an  hour  afterwards  old  Stoiko  appeared. 
He  was  about  fifty  years  of  age,  with  a  sharp  and  intelligent 
countenance,  expressive  of  determination  and  obstinacy. 

"  Stoiko,  tell  me  where  your  son  is — ^you  know  where 
you've  hidden  him — or  it  will  be  the  worse  for  you." 

As  the  one-eyed  zaptie  said  this,  he  poured  out  and 
gulped  down  a  glass  of  raki.  His  eye  flashed  as  he  did  so. 
Then  he  handed  the  glass  to  his  comrade. 

"  I  don't  know  where  he  is,  Aga,"  replied  the  old  man. 

"  You  do,  ghiaour ;  you  know  quite  well,'*  cried  the 
zaptie,  enraged. 

The  old  man  again  repeated  his  denial. 

"  You  know,  and  you'll  tell  us,  or  we'll  pull  out  your 
eye-teeth  for  you  ;  and  if  you  won't  say  then,  I'll  tie  you 
behind  my  horse,  and  you'll  come  with  us  to-morrow," 
roared  the  infuriated  zaptie. 

"  You  can  do  what  you  like  to  me,  I've  only  got  one 
life,"  answered  the  old  man  firmly. 

"  Go  over  there  and  think  it  over  a  little,  then  we'll  talk 
to  you  again,"  the  one-eyed  zaptie  said  with  pretended 
gentleness.  Their  object  was  to  extract  a  bribe  from  old 
Stoiko,  to  be  suggested  to  him  by  the  mayor.  It  was 
brigandage  of  the  worst  description,  but  they  wished  to  give 
it  the  appearance  of  a  voluntary  gift ;  it  was  the  system 
usually  followed  in  such  cases. 

But  old  Stoiko  did  not  move. 


142  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

They  looked  at  each  other  astonished  at  his  firmness,  and 
cast  ferocious  glances  at  the  old  man. 

"  Did  you  hear  what  I  said,  you  old  fool  ?  "  cried  the 
one-eyed  zapti6. 

"  I've  nothing  to  think  about — let  me  go  home,"  he 
answered,  hoarsely. 

The  zapties  could  not  contain  themselves. 

*'  Mayor,  throw  the  old  fool  down,"  cried  the  one-eyed 
ruffian,  seizing  his  kourbash.* 

The  mayor  and  Tsanko  begged  for  mercy  for  the  old 
man. 

The  only  reply  was  a  kick  which  felled  Stoiko  to  the 
ground. 

Then  blows  followed  fast  on  his  body.  Old  Stoiko 
groaned  heavily  for  some  time,  then  became  silent :  he  had 
fainted  ;  his  forehead  was  drenched  with  a  cold  sweat,  he 
was  worn  out  by  his  day's  work. 

They  undressed  him  to  bring  him  to  his  senses. 

"  When  he  comes  to  himself,  let  me  know — I'll  make 
him  si)eak." 

"  For  God's  sake,  Hajji  Aga,  I  entreat  you,  have  pity  on 
the  poor  old  man,  he  can't  stand  any  more  pain,  he'll  die," 
said  Tsanko,  entreatingly. 

"  Long  live  the  Sultan,  you  rebel !  "  cried  the  short  zaptie 
in  a  passion.  "  You  deserve  to  be  hanged  yourself  for 
harbouring  rebels  in  your  house  ;  you're  very  likely  hiding 
the  shepherd  here  somewhere.    Let's  search  the  house  !  " 

Tsanko's  face  fell  involuntarily.  Although  frenzied  with 
drink,  the  zapties  saw  his  confusion.  He  turned  at  once  to 
the  short  one  : 

"  Youssouf  Aga,  there's  something  wrong  here — let's 
search  the  ghiaour's  house."    And  he  rose. 

"  At  your  service,"  said  Tsanko,  hoarsely,  showing  the 
way  with  a  lantern. 

He  led  them  all  over  the  house,  leaving  the  closet  to  the 
last.  Finally,  he  lighted  them  there  too.  In  the  blackened 
ceiling  there  was  a  trap-door  which  led  to  the  rafters  and  so 
outside  on  to  the  roof.  When  it  was  closed  it  could  not  be 
noticed.  Tsanko  knew  that  Ognianoff  had  climbed  up 
through  it  to  the  rafters  and  replaced  the  cover.  So  he  led 
the  Turks  in  with  the  utmost  confidence.  His  first  glance 
was  towards  the  ceiling. 

*  Circassian  whip. 


GOD  IS  TOO  HIGH  AND  TSAR  TOO  FAR      143 

What  was  his  surprise  to  find  the  trap-door  open  ! 

Tsanko  remained  petrified  where  he  stood.  The  Turks 
searched  the  closet. 

"  Where  does  that  opening  lead  to  ?  " 

"  To  the  rafters,"  muttered  Tsanko.  His  legs  trembled 
under  him  and  he  had  to  cling  to  the  wall  for  support. 

The  short  zap  tie  noticed  his  terror. 

"  Just  give  a  light  here  while  I  get  up,  will  you  ?  "  he  said  ; 
but  a  sudden  thought  crossed  his  mind,  and  he  called  to  his 
comrade  : 

"  Hassan  Aga,  you're  taller  than  I  am,  get  on  the  mayor's 
back." 

Hassan  Aga  knew  no  fear  when  he  had  got  his  skinful ; 
drink  made  a  hero  of  him.  He  at  once  climbed  up  over 
the  mayor's  shoulders. 

"  Now  then,  bring  the  light,  confound  you  !  " 

Tsanko,  white  as  a  sheet,  handed  him  the  light  mechani- 
cally. 

The  zapti6  first  held  the  lantern  in  front  of  him,  then  put 
his  head  within  the  opening.  From  the  motion  of  his  body 
one  could  see  he  was  searching  with  the  light  on  every  side. 

At  last  he  reappeared,  jumped  down,  and  said  : 

"  Who  is  it  you've  been  hiding  there  ?  " 

Tsanko  looked  blankly  at  him.  He  did  not  know  what 
answer  to  give.  He  had  suffered  so  much  that  evening 
that  he  had  almost  lost  his  senses.  His  thoughts  became 
confused  ;  the  question  was  repeated,  he  stammered  out 
some  meaningless  reply. 

"  The  rebel  will  give  a  proper  answer  at  Klissoura. 
There's  a  better  prison  there  :  he  can  stop  here  for  the 
night." 

And  the  zapties  locked  him  up  in  the  dark  and  chilly 
closet. 

Tsanko  was  so  overwhelmed  with  terror  and  confusion 
that  it  was  some  minutes  before  he  could  collect  his  thoughts. 
He  clasped  his  head  with  both  hands,  as  if  to  retain  his 
presence  of  mind.  He  was  lacldng  in  determination,  and 
suffering  had  at  once  crushed  him.  He  sobbed  and  groaned 
in  despair. 

There  was  a  knock  at  the  door,  and  Deiko's  voice  was 
heard  : 

"  What  are  you  going  to  do  now,  Tsanko  ?  " 
*'  I  don't  know,  Deiko.    Tell  me  what's  best." 


144  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  Come,  you  know  the  Turks'  weakness.  You  must  give 
them  something  ;  it's  the  only  way  to  get  out  of  it ;  else 
they'll  drag  you  from  one  court-house  to  another  till  you're 
utterly  ruined.  Poor  old  Stoiko  could  have  spared  himself 
this  with  a  trifle.  Give,  Tsanko  !  give  'em  your  white  silver 
to  get  off  black  sorrow." 

His  wife  came,  too,  weeping  bitterly  : 

"  Let's  give  them  what  we  can  !  Never  mind,  Tsanko  ; 
it's  the  only  way  to  get  out  of  the  murderers'  hands.  They've 
killed  poor  old  Stoiko.  Dear,  dear  !  to  think  I  should  live 
to  see  it." 

"  But  what  are  we  to  give,  wife  ?  You  know  we  haven't 
any  money." 

"  Let's  give  the  necklace  !  " 

"  What  ?     Donka's  necklace,  with  the  coins  ?  " 

"  Yes,  yes  ;  it's  all  we  have  ;  it's  the  only  way  to  get  rid 
of  them.  Why,  they're  asking  for  Donka  now,  the  cursed 
brutes." 

"  Do  what  God  thinks  best,  wife.  I'm  all  of  a  muddle," 
muttered  Tsanko  from  his  prison. 

His  wife  and  Deiko  went  away. 

Soon  after  a  light  shone  through  the  chinks  in  the  boards 
of  the  closet,  and  the  door  was  unlocked. 

"  Come  out,  Tsanko,  you're  free,"  said  Deiko.  "  The 
Agas  were  good  fellows  after  all.  They've  given  you  back 
the  knife  as  well,  so  there's  no  cause  for  fear.  You've  got 
off  cheap." 

And,  bending  to  his  ear,  he  whispered  low  : 

"  It  can't  last  much  longer  ;  either  they'll  finish  us  off,  or 
we  must  them.     This  life  can't  go  on  like  this." 


CHAPTER  XXV  :  RETRIBUTION 

At  that  very  moment  Ognianoff  was  knocking  at  Petr 
Ovcharoff's  door.  He  had  been  unable  to  endure  the 
terrible  mental  torture  caused  by  the  sight  of  the  zap  ties' 
savage  brutaUty,  which  he  had  witnessed  through  a  crack 
in  the  ceiHng  :  he  had  scarcely  been  able  to  hold  back  his 
hand  from  taking  a  bloody  vengeance  on  the  two  ruffians — 
which  would,  however,  have  been  an  act  of  folly  that  might 
have  had  the  most  serious  consequences.  Half  out  of  his 
senses,  he  had  climbed  his  way  into  the  street,  and  ran 
straight  to  Old  Stoiko's  house. 


RETRIBUTION  145 

"  Where's  Petr  ?  "  he  asked,  the  moment  the  door  was 
opened  forgetting  that  he  was  in  hiding. 

"  Why,  is  that  you,  teacher  ?  "  asked  the  poor  old  mother, 
in  tears. 

"  Where's  your  Petr,  Mother  Stoikovitsa  ?  " 

"  Take  care,  my  son,  or  they'll  overhear  you.  Petr's  at 
Kill-the-Bear's  house." 

"  And  Where's  that,  mother  ?  " 

"  Next  door  to  the  Pope's  house — by  the  new  door,  if 
you  know  where  that  is  ;  but  mind  they  don't  hear,  my 
son." 

The  poor  woman  Httle  knew  that  her  husband  was  at 
that  moment  breathing  his  last.  Ognianoff  flew  off  without 
a  minute's  delay.  As  he  approached  the  Pope's  door,  a 
noisy  throng  emerged  from  within.  Ognianoff  recognised 
Petr's  voice.     He  stopped  them. 

"  What,  the  teacher  !  "     They  all  recognised  him. 

"  Yes,  it's  me,  boys — where  are  you  going  ?  " 

"We've  been  looking  Ivan  up,"  answered  Petr;  "he 
carried  off  his  girl  to-night,  and  we've  been  drmking  their 
health.  You  should  see  them  together  ;  one  would  think 
they'd  been  married  for  years.  And  when  did  you  turn 
up?" 

"  Petr,  I've  got  something  to  say  to  you." 

And  he  took  the  other  aside. 

"  Well,  good-night,  you  fellows,"  said  Petr,  following 
Ognianoff.     They  went  straight  to  Stoiko's  house. 

"  Has  father  come  home  yet  ?  "  asked  Petr. 

"  Not  yet,  my  boy." 

Ognianoff  took  him  into  the  cellar. 

"  Listen  to  me,  Petr.  The  zapties  have  beaten  your 
father  cruelly  on  your  account.  They  may  ill-treat  Tsanko 
and  his  family  still  more  savagely.  We  can't  restrain  the 
violence  of  these  brutes,  except  by  force  of  arms.  I  might 
have  smashed  their  heads  in  just  now,  only  I  was  afraid  of 
the  consequences.     We  can't  go  to  Tsanko's  house." 

"  I  must  have  vengeance — vengeance,"  cried  Petr 
wildly. 

"  Yes,  and  I  must  have  vengeance,  and  a  terrible  ven- 
geance, Petr,  but  it  must  be  without  danger  for  ourselves." 

"  How's  it  to  be  done  ?  "  asked  Petr,  taking  his  gun 
doT^Ti  from  the  wall. 

"  Patience,  while  I  think  it  over.'' 

K 


146  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  I  can't  stop  to  think  ;  I  must  go  and  see  what  they're 
doing  to  my  father." 

Ognianoff,  himself  much  excited,  had  now  to  strive  to 
restrain  a  man  still  more  excited  than  himself  from  taking  a 
natural  but  fatal  step.  If  Petr  went  to  Tsanko's  house 
blood  would  flow.  Ognianoff  was  of  opinion  that  the  hour 
for  the  decisive  struggle  had  not  yet  come.  It  seemed  to 
him  a  pity  that  so  bold  and  resolute  a  warrior  should  fall 
prematurely  and  uselessly. 

But  his  efforts  were  in  vain.     Petr  roared  like  a  tiger  : 

"  I  must  avenge  my  father,  if  the  whole  world  goes  to  rack 
and  ruin." 

He  struggled  fiercely  with  Ognianoif,  broke  from  him, 
and  rushed  to  the  door. 

Ognianoff  tore  his  hair  in  despair.  He  was  powerless  to 
resist  the  other's  violent  impulse. 

But  before  Petr  could  get  to  the  door  a  knock  came 
from  outside.  He  put  down  his  gun  to  open.  Three 
Bulgarians,  Tsanko's  neighbours,  were  carrying  in  on  a  rug 
old  Stoiko,  or  rather  his  body. 

"  Petr,  my  poor  boy,  God  keep  you  from  harm,"  *  said 
one  of  the  peasants. 

The  courtyard  was  filled  with  the  weeping  and  lamenta- 
tion of  the  women.  The  poor  old  mother  was  tearing  her 
clothes  and  flinging  herself  on  her  husband's  cold  corpse. 
Ognianoff  seized  Petr,  who  was  quite  overwhelmed  by  this 
misfortune,  and  forced  him  into  the  cellar  again  ;  with  tears 
in  his  eyes  he  strove  to  keep  him  back,  for  after  the  momen- 
tary shock  caused  by  the  sight  of  his  father,  Petr  was  now 
clamouring  more  frantically  than  ever  for  vengeance. 

"  We  must  avenge  him,  brother — we  must  avenge  him," 
cried  Ognianoff,  clasping  him  with  both  arms.  "  You  and 
I  have  now  no  more  sacred  duty  than  to  avenge  him." 

"  Blood,  blood  !  "  raved  Petr,  frenzied  with  rage.  "  Oh, 
father,  father  !  they've  broken  your  poor  old  bones,  the 
villains  !     What  will  my  poor  mother  do  now  ?  " 

"  Stop,  my  poor  fellow  ;  try  and  restrain  yourself  ; 
be  calm.  We'll  take  a  terrible  vengeance  on  the 
murderers  !  " 

Half  an  hour  afterwards  the  violence  of  the  crisis  calmed 
down,  for  even  the  fiercest  moral  sufferings  decrease  in 

*  The  usual  Oriental  form  of  condolence  when  some  fatal  mishap  has 
befallen  a  member  of  the  family. 


RETRIBUTION  147 

time.  Petr  consented  to  remain  at  home,  after  making 
Ognianoff,  Ostenoff,  and  Spirdonoff  swear  before  the  eikon 
that  they  would  not  leave  the  zapties  alive. 

"  To  think  that  Kill-the-Bear  must  go  and  choose  to- 
night to  get  married,"  grumbled  Ostenoff .  "  We  might  have 
done  some  good  if  we'd  had  him  with  us.     Just  our  luck." 

The  plan  of  attack  was  the  following  : — They  would  lie 
in  wait  on  the  road  that  led  westward  to  the  pass  of  Lesko- 
vits  by  the  road  to  KJissoura.  They  chose  for  their  ambush 
the  thickly  wooded  valley  through  which  the  river  Belesh- 
titsa  flows  just  before  it  joins  the  Strema.  They  would 
wait  for  the  Turks  there  and  atta^ck  them  with  their  knives, 
after  which  they  would  strip  them  and  hide  the  bodies  in 
the  thicket.  But  so  as  to  prevent  all  possibility  of  their 
victims'  escape,  they  would  take  their  guns  with  them  ; 
these,  however,  they  would  use  only  in  the  last  extremity, 
on  account  of  the  danger  of  attracting  attention  by  the 
noise.  The  plan  was  based  on  information  obtained  as  to 
the  departure  of  the  zapties.  They  had  given  orders  to 
be  woke  up  before  dawn,  as  at  the  second  cock-crow  they 
were  to  leave  for  KUssoura. 

At  the  first  cock-crow  the  little  band  started  from  the 
silent  village  and  made  for  the  fields.  Snow  was  falHng 
heavily.  The  whole  path  was  covered  with  a  white  shroud. 
This  enabled  them  to  see  their  way  in  the  dark.  The 
adventurous  party,  with  their  guns  concealed  beneath  their 
cloaks,  tramped  silently  over  the  deep  snow  which  threw  its 
pall  over  everything.  Not  the  slightest  sound  was  heard  ; 
one  would  have  taken  them  for  the  nightly  ghosts  and 
vampires  supposed  by  popular  superstition  to  abound  about 
Christmas  time.  The  snow  fell  continuously,  and  deep 
drifts  formed  in  the  ditches,  seriously  delaying  the  march  of 
the  travellers,  who,  however,  did  not  even  notice  them. 
They  were  absorbed  by  one  thought — vengeance.  The  cries 
of  Petr,  their  valiant  comrade,  and  the  lamentations  of  his 
mother  and  the  neighbours  still  rang  in  their  ears.  They 
had  only  one  fear  :  lest  the  zapties  should  escape  them — all 
other  emotions  were  put  aside.  For  a  long  time  they  went 
on  without  a  word  being  uttered.  Suddenly  they  heard 
behind  them  a  loud  barking  which  broke  the  silence  of  the 
night.    They  turned  round  in  surprise. 

"  Where  can  there  be  dogs  this  weather  ? "  asked 
Boicho. 


148  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  It's  very  strange,"  said  Spirdonoff,  uneasily. 

The  barking  was  repeated  still  louder,  and  soon  they 
saw,  under  the  trees,  a  great  black  figure  leaping  and 
bounding  towards  them.  The  figure  was  not  in  the  least 
like  a  dog  :  it  resembled  rather  some  monster,  some  gigantic 
bear  erect  on  its  hind  legs. 

Boicho  and  Spirdonoff  instinctively  stopped  at  the  foot  of 
an  oak  tree  and  prepared  to  defend  themselves  against  this 
unkno^vn  assailant.  At  that  moment  it  leaped  towards 
them. 

"  Ivan  Kill-the-Bear  !  '  they  all  cried,  simultaneously. 

"  Yes,  it's  me,  you've  forgotten  me,  God  bless  my  soul." 

It  really  was  Kill-the-Bear  in  his  cloak.  The  moment  he 
had  heard  the  uproar  in  the  street  he  had  gone  to  Petr 
and  learnt  the  whole  business  from  him.  Without  a 
minute's  delay  he  had  returned  to  his  house,  sent  his  bride 
home  to  her  mother,  stuck  his  axe  in  his  belt,  seized  his 
gun,  and  hurried  off  to  join  the  band  and  take  part  in  the 
vengeance. 

This  powerful  addition  to  their  band  gave  them  fresh 
courage.     "  Let's  move  on  now,"  said  Ostenoff. 

"Forward,"  added  Ognianoff. 

"  Stop  a  bit,  wait  for  the  other  one,"  added  Kill-the- 
Bear. 

"  What  other  one  ?  who  else  is  there  ?  "  they  asked  with 
surprise. 

"  Why,  Petr's  young  brother  Daniel,  he's  come  with  me." 

"  What  did  you  bring  him  f or  ?  " 

"  Oh  !  Petr  sent  him,  so  that  his  brother  might  see  what 
happened  with  his  own  eyes." 

"  What  !   didn't  he  trust  us  ?  we'd  taken  the  oath  !  " 

"  A  hundred  oaths  go  to  the  piastre.  I  don't  trust  you 
myself." 

"  What  do  you  mean  ?  " 

"  Why,  you  went  off  without  Kill-the-Bear,  God  bless  his 
soul." 

The  last  was  an  ejaculation  Kill-the-Bear  used  at  nearly 
every  word.  It  expressed  his  thoughts  and  feelings  much 
more  accurately  than  any  other  words  he  could  have 
thought  of. 

"  Don't  be  angry,  Ivan,"  said  Ostenoff  ;   "we  thought  of 
you  too,  but  you've  just  been  married." 
''Ah!  here's  Daniel  !  " 


RETRIBUTION  149 

A  youth  came  up  panting  :  he  was  armed  only  with  a 
long  knife  thrust  into  his  belt. 

The  band  had  increased  its  numbers  from  three  to  five. 

The  journey  was  resumed  as  silently  as  before.  They 
were  going  along  the  skirts  of  the  Sredna  Gora,  just  by 
where  the  peak  of  the  Bogdan  (down  which  flows  the 
Beleshtitsa)  rises.  At  last  they  came  to  the  stream.  It 
was  indeed  a  favourable  point  of  attack.  On  the  right- 
hand  side  was  the  Strema,  which  the  Turks  had  to  cross  : 
on  the  left  was  a  deep  gorge,  thickly  wooded  with  shrubs 
and  under-growth,  and  behind  it  rose  the  mountain.  The 
band  halted  here.  They  were  about  an  hour's  march  from 
Altinovo,  so  that  if  it  were  necessary  to  fire,  the  reports 
would  not  be  heard.  As  they  took  up  their  position  in  the 
thicket,  the  dawn  began  to  appear.  The  snow  was  falling 
thicker  than  ever.  The  five  comrades,  reclining  on  the 
snow,  waited  patiently  with  their  eyes  fixed  towards  the 
east,  from  whence  the  zapties  were  to  come.  But  the  first 
sound  they  heard  was  the  howHng  of  wolves.  It  came  from 
behind  their  heads  and  approached  nearer  and  nearer. 
Probably  the  animals  were  making  for  the  plains  to  seek 
their  breakfast  before  dawn. 

"  They're  coming  towards  us,"  said  Ivan  Ostenoff. 

"  We're  not  to  fire  on  any  account." 

"  The  work  must  be  done  with  our  knives  and  the  butt- 
ends  of  our  guns  ;  do  you  hear  ?  "  said  Ognianofi. 

His  comrades  listened  anxiously.  The  continued  rustling 
in  the  thicket  above  them  showed  that  the  enemy  was 
approaching  silently  and  in  a  body.  There  was  a  fresh 
howl.     One  could  now  see  the  black  mass  advancing. 

"  Curse  the  wolves  !  they  may  ruin  our  whole  plan,"  said 
Ognianoff. 

At  the  same  moment  some  wolves  leaped  on  the  open 
ground  just  behind  them,  and  stopped.  They  raised  their 
sharp  muzzles,  and  sniffed  ominously.  The  rest  of  the 
band  appeared. 

*'  There's  eight  of  them,"  whispered  Kill-the-Bear  ;  "  you 
divide  four  among  you — I'll  take  the  rest  !  " 

As  soon  as  they  saw  their  promised  prey,  the  famished 
beasts  rushed  into  the  thicket,  which  now  became  as  it  were 
a  fortress,  of  which  the  assailants  were  wolves,  and  the 
garrison  men.  Knives  and  daggers  flashed  hither  and 
thither  ;  guns  rose  and  fell ;  the  howling  ceased  :  only  teeth 


150  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

and  claws  were  at  work  now.  On  one  side  the  combatants 
were  hungry  for  food — on  the  other  side  for  vengeance. 
Some  of  the  animals  soon  rolled  fatally  wounded  in  the 
thicket :  the  rest  fell  upon  their  fallen  companions,  whom 
they  devoured  ravenously  while  still  living  ;  soon  all  were 
driven  from  the  thicket  by  the  frequent  salhes  of  Ivan  Kill- 
the-Bear,  who  rushed  out  barking  like  a  sheep-dog  and 
brandishing  his  axe  which  dealt  many  a  deep  wound.  He 
reminded  one  of  Samson  when  he  routed  the  PhiUstine  army 
with  the  jawbone  of  an  ass. 

Such  of  the  wolves  as  survived  were  driven  across  to  the 
other  side  of  the  stream,  where  they  stopped  to  Hck  their 
wounds. 

Fortunately  no  one  passed  while  the  struggle  was  going  on. 

"  The  wolves  won't  leave  this  spot,"  said  Ognianoff. 

"  Let  them  stop,  then,  and  we'll  prepare  a  banquet  for 
them  that  will  make  them  remember  Kill- the -Bear's  wed- 
ding," said  Spirdonoff. 

'*  God  bless  his  soul  I  "  murmured  Kill-the-Bear,  much 
gratified. 

They  waited  for  some  time  in  silence. 

The  Turks  did  not  appear,  though  it  was  past  the  second 
cock-crow.  The  little  band  had  heard  long  before  the 
distant  sounds  wafted  through  the  stillness  of  the  night 
from  the  neighbouring  villages.  It  became  lighter  every 
moment ;  the  trees  in  the  plain  were  growing  more  distinct. 
The  young  men  began  to  feel  anxious  ;  they  were  numbed 
with  cold,  and  it  seemed  as  though  the  zapties  were  not 
coming.  They  might  have  postponed  their  journey  on 
account  of  the  heavy  snowfall  during  the  night,  or  else 
perhaps  as  a  preca'ution  against  an  unexpected  attack.  Ifc 
would  soon  be  broad  dayhght ;  the  road  would  begin  to 
be  frequented,  and  then  nothing  could  be  done.  These 
thoughts  formed  in  the  mind  of  each  of  them  :  a  terrible 
impatience  seized  them  :  the  situation  became  unendurable, 
a  perfect  torture.     Ostenoff  groaned  in  despair. 

"  We  must  wait  here  till  they  pass,  whenever  that  may 
be  ;  we  mustn't  move  from  here,"  said  Ognianoff,  hoarsely. 

"  But  if  other  people  pass  by  ?  " 

"  Let  them — ^we  only  want  two." 

"  But  we  shall  have  to  fall  upon  them  openly  then  ?  " 

"  If  we  can't  do  it  secretly  we  must  do  it  openly." 

"  We  can  fire  at  them  from  here,  and  then  be  off  to  the 


RETRIBUTION  151 

mountain.    Nobody'U  see  us   through   the  wood,"   said 
Ostenoff. 

"  That's  all  right.  But  suppose  they've  got  company 
with  them,  other  Turks  ?  " 

"  Then  we  shall  have  a  real  battle  :  we're  armed,  and 
we've  got  a  good  position,"  said  Ognianoff.  "  Remember 
one  thing — ^we've  all  sworn  before  God  that  we  won't  leave 
them  alive." 

"  God  bless  their  souls." 

"  There's  only  one  thing  I'm  afraid  of,  boys,"  said 
Boicho. 

"  What's  that  ?  " 

"  They  may  have  taken  some  other  road." 

"  Make  your  mind  easy  about  that,"  said  Ostenoff, 
"  There  is  no  other  road,  unless  they  have  gone  back, 
which  God  forbid  !  " 

Kill-the-Bear  stood  up,  and  began  to  scan  the  horizon 
attentively. 

"  There's  something  coming,"  said  he,  pointing  to  the  east. 

Every  one  strained  his  eyes  in  that  direction.  Among 
the  trees  along  the  road  could  be  seen  two  human  figures 
on  horseback. 

"  They're  on  horseback,"  cried  Ognianoff,  with  annoy- 
ance. 

*'  They  can't  be  our  two,"  said  Spirdonoff. 

"  Ours  are  on  foot,"  remarked  Ostenoff. 

"  God  bless  their  souls  !  " 

Ognianoff  was  excited  and  angry.  He  continued  to  look 
fixedly  towards  the  advancing  horsemen,  who  drew  nearer 
and  nearer.  When  they  were  a  hundred  yards  off,  he  cried 
joyfully,  "  It's  them  !  I  know  their  cloaks  and  their  faces. 
The  one-eyed  man's  on  that  side." 

All  turned,  with  their  guns  ready,  towards  the  two 
zapties,  who  were  quietly  approaching. 

"  I  can  recognise  Tsanko's  horse  now,"  said  Spirdonoff, 

"  Yes  ;   and  the  other's  mine,"  added  Ognianoff. 

''  They  must  have  taken  them  by  force." 

But  Ognianoff 's  joy  was  of  short  duration.  He  saw  that 
the  Turks  being  mounted  c  ould  now  easily  escape .  It  would 
be  impossible  to  act  with  knives  in  the  open,  the  work 
would  have  to  be  done  from  their  ambush  with  the  guns — 
and  a  gun  is  a  treacherous  weapon.  Besides,  it  was  a  pity 
for  the  horses. 


152  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  Well,  it  can't  be  helped,"  he  thought  to  himself. 

"  We  must  shoot  them  !  " 

*'  Take  care,  boys,  let  the  first  aim  be  straight." 

"  When  they  come  abreast  of  us  we'U  fire,"  said 
Ognianoff. 

"  I'll  take  the  one-eyed  one,"  said  Eall-the-Bear. 

"  Kill-the-Bear  and  Spirdonoff  the  one-eyed  man,  I  and 
the  teacher  the  other,"  ordered  Ostenoff.  The  horsemen 
reached  the  thicket. 

Four  muzzles  were  levelled  and  the  report  rang  out  loud 
and  clear,  awaking  the  echoes  around.  The  lads  gazed 
anxiously  through  the  smoke.  One  zap  tie  had  fallen,  the 
other  was  dangling  by  a  stirrup.  The  horses  kicked  and 
plunged,  then  stopped  still. 

'*  Teacher,  which  one  was  it  who  killed  my  father  ?  " 
asked  Daniel,  as  he  rushed  the  first  out  of  the  ambush. 

"  The  one-eyed  one,  lying  down  there." 

The  boy  flew  at  him,  drew  his  knife,  and  commenced 
stabbing  and  hacking  the  ill-fated  murderer  of  his  father. 

When  the  others  came  up  he  was  still  slashing  at  him 
almost  unconsciously — he  was  like  a  wild  beast  thirsting 
for  blood.  The  Turk,  still  living,  was  reduced  to  a  shape- 
less and  bloody  heap  of  pulp — ^he  had  lost  all  semblance 
of  human  form.  The  blood  formed  in  pools  on  the  melting 
snow. 

OgnianofE  turned  away  in  disgust  from  this  butchery. 
He  would  have  felt  still  more  aversion  had  it  been  effected 
by  a  mere  coward,  but  Petr's  brother  was  brave  enough  :  it 
was  only  a  frenzied  thirst  for  vengeance  which  impelled  him 
to  this  act  of  barbarity.     Ognianoff  thought  to  himself  : 

*'  It's  a  savage  revenge,  but  justifiable  before  God  and 
one's  own  conscience.  It's  bloodthirstiness  ;  but  it's  a 
good  sign.  The  Bulgarian's  been  a  sheep  for  five  centuries, 
it'll  be  well  if  he  becomes  a  wild  beast  now.  Men  respect 
the  wild  goat  more  than  the  tame  sheep,  the  dog  more 
than  the  goat,  the  ferocious  tiger  more  than  the  wolf  or 
bear,  the  bird  of  prey  more  than  the  barn-door  fowl,  which 
supplies  them  with  excellent  food.  Why  ?  Because  they 
represent  force,  which  means  liberty  and  justice.  Let 
philosophy  flourish,  human  nature  remains  always  the 
same.  Christ  has  said,  '  If  they  strike  you  on  one  cheek, 
turn  unto  them  the  other.'  That  is  divine,  and  I  bow 
before  it.    But  I  prefer  Moses  with  his  '  An  eye  for  an  eye 


RETRIBUTION  158 

and  a  tooth  for  a  tooth.'  That's  the  natural  law,  which  I 
follow.  It's  the  inexorable,  sacred  principle,  on  which  must 
be  based  our  struggle  against  the  tyrants.  To  show  mercy 
to  the  merciless  is  as  base  as  to  expect  it  from  them." 

Plunged  in  these  absorbing  thoughts,  fierce  and  terrible 
as  the  hour,  and  completely  at  variance  with  his  nature, 
Ognianoff  remained  behind  his  comrades,  watching  the 
pools  of  blood  that  formed  in  the  snow  by  the  Turk's 
mangled  remains. 

Suddenly  on  the  ghastly  mass  of  quivering  flesh  he  saw  a 
string  of  gold  coins.     He  pointed  them  out  to  Spirdonoff. 

"  Take  them  for  some  poor  man  to  buy  his  Christmas 
dinner  with."  Spirdonoff  lifted  up  the  necklace  with  his 
dagger. 

"  The  ruffians  !  what  Bulgarian  have  they  plundered,  I 
wonder  ?  Why  :  its  Donka's  necklace  and  no  other,"  cried 
Spirdonoff,  in  surprise  and  terror.     He  was  betrothed  to  her. 

'*  They  must  have  given  it  as  a  bribe  to  get  her  father 
off,"  said  Ognianoff. 

'*  But  there's  only  half  the  necklace  here  :  the  other  half 
must  have  been  cut  off,  and  remained  in  this  pulp  !  " 

And  Spirdonoff  began  to  search  with  his  dagger,  but  the 
other  half  was  not  there.  It  was  found  in  the  short 
zaptie's  pocket,  with  whom  his  comrade  had  shared  the 
booty  as  well  as  the  punishment. 

Kill-the-Bear  finished  off  the  one-eyed  zapti6  with  his  axe. 

The  two  Turks  were  quickly  concealed  in  the  thicket. 
Meanwhile  Tsanko's  horse  returned  quietly  to  the  village, 
but  the  other,  which  had  scented  the  wolves,  crossed  the 
Strema  and  fled,  tail  in  the  air,  across  the  plain. 

"  An  eye  for  an  eye,  a  tooth  for  a  tooth,"  Ognianoff 
muttered,  mechanically. 

As  the  avengers  departed,  the  wolves  approached. 
Nature  and  the  wild  beasts  united  to  blot  out  all  traces  of 
the  terrible  deed. 

The  snow  still  continued  to  fall. 

It  was  now  broad  daylight :  but  the  neighbourhood  was 
quite  deserted.  Nothing  stirred  as  yet,  either  on  the  road, 
or  in  the  fields,  which  were  shrouded  in  white.  No  one 
was  likely  to  be  abroad  at  that  hour  and  in  such  weather  : 
thus  the  early  departure  of  the  Turks  had  been  witnessed 
by  no  one.  But  the  confederates  did  not  wish  to  be  noticed 
on  returning  to  the  village.    Moreover,  the  road  by  which 


154  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

they  had  come  would  now  no  longer  be  deserted,  as  there 
were  many  mills  along  it.  They  held  a  council  of  war,  and 
decided  to  climb  the  northern  side  of  the  Bogdan,  which 
was  thickly  overgrown  with  brushwood,  and  reach  the 
village  from  the  other  side  of  the  mountain.  The  road  was 
a  hard  and  precipitous  one,  but  not  much  frequented,  and 
they  would  find  shelter  there.  Daniel  they  sent  back 
straight  to  the  village. 

CHAPTER  XXVI :    THE  STORM 

Deep  snow  covered  the  path  up  the  wooded  mountain-side 
along  which  the  party  now  cUmbed  the  valley  of  the 
Beleshtitsa.  Kill-the-Bear,  who  knew  the  country  well,  led 
the  way  with  his  gun  on  his  shoulder.  Their  progress  was 
difficult,  for  there  was  no  sign  of  a  road.  After  half  an 
hour's  chmbing  the  perspiration  streamed  from  these  hardy 
and  weather-beaten  youths  as  if  they  had  been  walking  for 
hours.  When  they  at  last  reached  the  first  summit  the 
snow  had  ceased,  and  soon  after  from  the  grey  frozen  sky 
the  sun  shone  out  and  poured  its  vivifying  rays  on  mountain 
and  valley,  the  white  surface  of  which  became  still  more 
dazzling  ;  it  flashed  in  the  sunlight  with  a  thousand  quiver- 
ing sparks  ;  it  seemed  to  be  powdered  over  with  diamond 
dust,  like  the  garment  of  a  Bagdad  sultana.  Down  in  the 
valley,  now  awakened,  rose  thin  streams  of  smoke  over  the 
villages,  and  peasants  could  be  seen  here  and  there  making 
the  first  tracks  in  the  slumbering  roads  and  paths.  The 
village  of  Altinovo  was  clearly  discernible  below  the  spurs 
of  the  mountain,  and  some  movement  was  noticeable.  The 
lads  remarked  a  black  mass — probably  villagers — moving 
toward  the  outskirts  of  the  village,  where  the  cemetery  was 
situated  :  they  concluded  that  this  was  old  Stoiko's  funeral; 
they  could  even  hear  the  dull  sounds  of  the  church  sounding- 
board.  But  the  mountain-side  and  the  summits  remained 
unapproached,  save  by  themselves,  and  slept  royally  be- 
neath their  unsulhed  winding-sheet.  The  majestic  Riba- 
ritsa,  to  the  west  of  the  valley,  lifted  its  lofty  towering 
summit  to  heaven,  surrounded  by  a  circle  of  lower  peaks  ;  a 
veil  of  fleecy  cloud,  like  smoke,  hung  as  if  suspended  over  it. 
Along  the  northern  horizon  stretched  the  straight  line  of 
the  Stara  Planina,  white  with  snow  and  bathed  by  the 
golden  sunlight.    Its  usually  frowning  aspect  was  softened 


THE  STORM  155 

down  into  a  peaceful  loveliness.  Only  the  gaunt  grey- 
rocks,  whence  flow  the  crashing  waterfalls,  remained  bare 
and  gave  a  note  of  harshness  to  the  view.  The  unbioken 
ridge  stretched  like  a  wall  as  far  as  the  Ambaritsa  ;  there 
the  chain  of  the  Balkans  began. 

The  confederates  stopped  from  time  to  time  to  rest, 
involuntarily  admiring  the  beauty  of  the  wintry  scene,  but 
in  silence.  Petr's  bereavement,  and  the  vengeance  which 
had  followed  it,  weighed  heavily  on  their  minds.  Only 
a  few  words  were  interchanged  now  and  again,  and  then 
merely  with  reference  to  their  road.  Occasionally  one 
of  the  wayfarers  would  slip  on  the  steep  ascent  and  be 
helped  up  by  the  others  with  great  difficulty.  It  was  then 
that  Kill-the-Bear's  great  strength  was  most  useful.  Though 
they  stopped  frequently  to  rest,  they  were  much  wearied  ; 
they  were  exhausted  by  hunger  and  a  sharp  icy  wind,  which 
lashed  their  faces  and  froze  their  noses,  ears,  and  hands. 
Meanwhile  the  brushwood  became  thicker  and  more  im- 
penetrable. For  some  time  they  went  on,  but  at  last  they 
came  to  a  standstill.  There  was  no  longer  any  sign  of  a 
path.  Before  them  stretched  only  the  thick  tangled  under- 
growth, cleft  here  and  there  by  yawning  chasms,  and  the 
wind  became  fiercer  every  minute. 

They  looked  at  each  other  in  dismay. 

"  What  do  you  say  ?  Shall  we  turn  back  to  the  valley 
and  take  the  path  that  leads  to  the  village  ?  "  said 
Spirdonoff. 

"  No,"  declared  Ostenoff  ;  "we  must  go  the  opposite 
way  :  no  turning  back."     And  the  others  agreed  with  him. 

After  a  short  deliberation  they  decided  to  retrace  their 
steps  a  little  and  then  to  strike  to  the  right  and  force 
their  way  as  best  they  could  through  the  thicket  so  as  to 
reach  the  ridge  which  led  to  the  summit,  from  whence  they 
could  get  down  to  the  valley  on  the  other  side. 

"  That's  where  Dicho's  hut  is,"  said  Ostenoff  ;  "  we  can 
warm  ourselves  there  and  get  something  to  eat." 

"  I'm  of  Ostenoff's  opinion,"  said  Ognianoff,  turning  his 
back  to  the  wind  ;  '*  let's  make  for  the  hut,  first  to  restore 
ourselves  a  little,  and  secondly,  we  may  hear  what's  been 
going  on  at  Altinovo.     It  won't  do  to  go  back  bhndly." 

Ognianoff  might  have  added  a  third  reason  :  the  sharp 
pain  in  his  foot,  which  had  been  renewed  by  the  hard 
exercise  and  the  cold. 


156  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  That's  true,"  assented  Spirdonoff,  "  Tsanko's  horse 
must  have  got  back  by  this  time  and  the  whole  story  must 
be  known." 

"  Oh  !  that's  all  right,"  said  Ostenoff,  "  by  this  time  the 
wolves  will  have  cleared  off  even  the  bones  of  the  zapties. 
If  the  Turks  go  to  look  for  them  they'll  find  only  a  few 
rags.  The  good  old  snow  will  have  covered  all  traces  of 
blood  on  the  road,  and  I  noticed  there  wasn't  a  drop  on 
Tsanko's  horse." 

They  now  emerged  on  the  bare  hill-side,  and  again 
deliberated  as  to  the  direction  to  be  taken. 

Ivan  Kill-the-Bear  was  attentively  scanning  the  sky. 
His  comrades  waited  for  him  to  give  his  opinion. 

"  Come  on,  let's  make  for  the  hut  at  once,  I  don't  Uke 
the  look  of  the  Ribaritsa,  God  bless  its  soul,"  he  said 
seriously. 

The  band  then  turned  to  the  north-east  and  began  the 
ascent.  The  wind  was  blowing  fiercely,  raising  the  skirts  of 
the  wayfarer's  cloaks,  and  penetrating  under  their  clothes  to 
the  very  skin.  At  every  step  the  violence  of  the  tempest 
increased.  Ognianoff  was  gradually  falling  behind.  He 
felt  that  his  strength  was  deserting  him  :  there  was  a  buzz- 
ing in  his  ears,  his  head  swam  ;  he  was  quite  exhausted, 
but  he  would  not  call  out  for  assistance  :  indeed,  the  wind 
would  have  prevented  his  voice  from  reaching  the  others. 
He  was  endowed  with  unusual  strength  of  will,  and  to  it  he 
trusted  to  pull  him  through,  even  though  his  bodily  strength 
should  fail  him.  But  a  man,  however  strong  he  may  be 
morally,  must  sooner  or  later  give  way  to  the  laws  of 
physics.  The  greatest  effort  of  will,  the  most  powerful 
strength  of  mind,  cannot  raise  his  powers  beyond  a  certain 
Hmit.  The  mind  may,  indeed,  stimulate  the  action  of  the 
body,  but  it  cannot  create  a  strength  which  does  not  already 
exist.  All  the  mountain  valleys  echoed  with  the  roaring  of 
the  wind,  which  was  now  a  fierce  hurricane  :  its  icy  breath 
numbed  their  limbs  and  froze  the  blood  in  their  veins.  The 
air  seemed  to  encompass  the  wayfarers  like  a  sea  of  ice  : 
the  sun's  rays  instead  of  warming  them  stung  their  flesh  like 
thorns.  Soon  the  storm  broke  right  upon  them,  with  thick 
bhnding  eddies  of  snow  :  it  raised  the  snow  in  high  whirHng 
columns  which  seemed  to  reach  to  the  skies.  Sun  and 
light  disappeared  :  heavens  and  earth  were  blended  in 
darkness  and  complete  chaos  followed,  while  the  blinding 


THE  STORM  157 

snow  lashed  them  in  fury  ;    the  hurricane  whistled  and 
roared  :  it  seemed  like  the  end  of  the  world. 

This  lasted  for  two  minutes.  Then  the  Balkan  storm 
passed  to  another  peak  and  wrapped  it  in  its  thick  veil. 
The  sun  again  poured  forth  its  pale  rays  from  the  colour- 
less sky. 

The  little  band  had  been  protected  by  a  high  straight 
ledge  of  rock,  like  a  wall,  which  sheltered  them  a  little  from 
the  fury  of  the  elements  ;  this  had  saved  them,  as  if  by  a 
miracle,  from  being  carried  off  by  the  storm-blast.  One  by 
one  they  rose,  as  if  awaking  from  a  sleep  which  would  have 
ended  in  death.  They  were  completely  benumbed — there 
was  no  feeling  in  their  hands  or  feet.  They  were  indeed 
in  great  danger.  The  first  to  come  to  his  senses  was  Ivan 
Kill-the-Bear — ^he  cried  : 

"  Get  up,  boys — we  must  climb  the  rock,  or  we're  done 
for  !  " 

They  made  an  effort,  rose,  took  their  guns  under  their 
arms,  and  began  to  move  on.  Suddenly  Kall-the-Bear 
stopped. 

"  Why,  Where's  the  teacher  ?  " 

They  all  looked  round  in  dismay.  Ognianoff  was 
nowhere  to  be  seen. 

"  The  storm  must  have  carried  him  off  !  " 
"  He's  buried  in  the  snow." 

All  hastened  to  search  for  him.  The  precipice  yawning 
under  their  feet  filled  them  with  terror.  They  hardly 
dared  to  look  down. 

"  Here  he  is,"  cried  Ostenoff. 

At  the  very  brink  of  the  abyss,  under  the  snow,  two  feet, 
clothed  in  sandals,  were  seen  projecting.  They  scraped 
away  the  snow  and  dragged  Ognianoff  out.  He  was 
lifeless,  his  face  was  pale  as  death,  his  flesh  benumbed. 

"  God  bless  his  soul  !  "  ejaculated  Kill-the-Bear  sym- 
pathetically. 

"  Rub  him,  boys,  rub  him  !  "  cried  Ostenoff,  as  he  began 
himself  to  rub  his  face,  hands  and  breast  with  snow. 
"  He's  still  warm,  we  must  bring  him  round." 

Every  one  forgot  his  own  sufferings  in  the  desire  to  save 
their  perishing  comrade.  The  energetic  friction  soon 
restored  Ognianoff's  circulation,  and  warmed  them  as 
well. 

"  Let's  make  for  the  hut  at  once,"  cried  Ostenoff.     And 


158  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

the  three  took  Ognianoff  by  his  hands  and  feet  and  carried 
him  to  the  snow-covered  slopes  of  the  Bogdan.  Here 
again  Kill-the-Bear's  powerful  muscles  were  of  the  greatest 
assistance.  At  last,  after  superhuman  efforts,  they  reached 
the  hut. 


CHAPTER  XXVII :  IN  THE  HUT 
DiCHo's  hut  stood  on  a  level  part  of  the  plain,  in  a  hoUow, 
surrounded  by  lofty  peaks  which  protected  it  from  the  wind. 
Towards  the  north  side  of  the  courtyard  was  stored  the  pro- 
vision of  hay  and  leaves  for  the  sheeps'  fodder  during  the 
winter  months  :  this  was  covered  over  with  a  broad,  low 
roof.  From  the  hut — where  the  shepherds  who  tended  the 
flocks  remained  during  winter — smoke  was  rising  cheerfully. 
A  watch-dog  flew  at  the  wayfarers,  but  at  once  recognised 
Ivan  Ostenoff,  and  withdrew  satisfied.  They  carried 
Ognianoff  into  the  warm  hut,  and  continued  to  rub  him 
energetically  The  shepherd-boy  also  assisted  to  save 
Ognianoff's  life  by  taking  off  his  sandals  and  rubbing  his 
feet  with  snow.  When  Ognianoff  and  his  comrades  saw 
themselves  rescued  from  the  danger  of  being  frozen  to 
death,  they  crossed  themselves  devoutly  and  thanked 
Heaven  for  their  escape.  The  shepherd  lad  heaped  more 
wood  on  the  fire.  The  four  sat  round  it,  but  were  careful 
not  to  attempt  to  warm  their  hands  and  feet  as  yet.  The 
dog,  true  to  his  instinct,  stretched  himself  out  by  the  door 
to  watch. 

"  Obreiko,  where's  your  uncle  Kalcho  ?  "  asked  Ostenoff. 

Kalcho  was  Dicho's  brother,  and  was  in  charge  of  the  hut. 

*'  He  went  to  the  village  last  night ;  I'm  expecting  him 
back  now." 

"  Give  us  what  you've  got  in  the  bag,  my  lad,  we're 
hungry." 

The  boy  turned  out  all  the  provisions  they  had  ;  these 
consisted  of  a  few  scraps  of  hard  rye-bread,  some  green 
pepper  pods,  and  a  little  salt. 

"  Isn't  there  any  raki,  Obreiko  ?  " 

"  No." 

*'  WeU,  we  must  make  the  best  of  it.  But  it's  a  pity 
there's  no  raki,  the  teacher  ought  to  have  some  to  pull  him 
round,"  said  Ostenoff,  looking  at  Ognianoff  who  had 
clenched  his  hands  and  was  writhing  with  pain. 


IN  THE  HUT  159 

"  It's  all  right  now,  teacher,  never  fear.  What  did  you 
think  of  our  Sredna  Gora  ?  she's  a  beauty,  isn't  she  ?  " 

'*  Thank  God  nothing  happened  to  any  of  you,"  said 
Ognianoff. 

"  Oh  !  she  never  hurts  old  friends  like  us." 

*'  It's  my  belief,"  said  Ostenoff,  "  that  it  was  the  Stara 
Planina  that  sent  us  the  storm.     Edll-the-Bear  was  right." 

''  Kill-the-Bear  knows  what  he's  about,  he  doesn't  eat 
chaff,"  roared  Ivan  himself  in  his  deep  tones  ;  the  dog 
barked  furiously,  the  noise  having  startled  him. 

Ognianoff  looked  with  curiosity  at  Ivan.  He  could  not 
help  thinking  that  the  nickname  suited  him  admirably.  No 
more  appropriate  designation  could  have  been  found  for  this 
big-headed,  coarse,  half -savage  giant,  who  looked  as  if  he 
had  been  suckled  by  a  bear  rather  than  a  woman.  He 
gazed  at  his  lofty  figure,  thin  and  bony,  but  powerful :  his 
long,  angular,  shaggy  head,  with  its  narrow  forehead,  small 
grey  eyes,  and  immense  nose,  very  wide  at  the  nostrils,  like 
a  beast's  :  his  huge  mouth,  capacious  enough  to  swallow  a 
hare  whole  (Ivan  was  said  to  eat  raw  meat)  ;  and  those  long 
hairy,  muscular  arms,  which  were  fit  to  wrestle  with  a  lion. 
He  seemed  to  have  been  intended  by  Nature  to  fight  with 
savage  animals — to  which  he  seemed  so  closely  akin — rather 
than  for  the  idyllic  calling  of  a  goatherd.  In  contrast  to  all 
this,  his  face  bore  an  expression  of  good  tempered  and 
sheepish  simplicity  which  made  him  ridiculous.  No  one 
would  have  supposed  that  this  coarse,  rough,  apparently 
undeveloped  nature  could  know  feelings  of  devotion,  or  the 
most  humane  and  tender  of  emotions.  Yet  it  was  so.  His 
very  appearance  that  morning  to  join  the  avengers,  almost 
comic  though  it  was,  bore  witness  to  his  kindly  and  valiant 
disposition.  He  was  ready  to  sacrifice  himself.  Under 
the  influence  of  these  thoughts  it  seemed  to  Ognianoff  that 
his  face  became  more  sympathetic,  and  even  intelligent. 

*'  I  say,  Ivan,  how  did  you  get  that  awful  nickname  ?  " 

*'  What,  teacher  !  Don't  you  know  ?  "  repUed  Ostenoff. 
"  He  fought  with  a  bear." 

"  Really  ?  " 

*'  Rather — he's  a  wonderful  hunter — ^and  killed  it,  too." 

"  Kill-the-Bear,  tell  us  how  you  and  the  bear  rolled  down 
the  cliff  together." 

"  Do  you  mean  to  say  you  wrestled  with  it  ?  "  asked 
Boicho,  astounded. 


160  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

Instead  of  answering,  Kill-the-Bear  raised  his  hand  to  his 
neck.  Ognianoff  then  noticed  for  the  first  time  a  deep  scar 
there,  newly  healed  ;  he  then  bared  his  arm  to  the  elbow, 
and  showed  another  fearful  wound,  which  seemed  to  have 
been  caused  by  an  iron  hook.  Ognianoff  shuddered  as  he 
saw  them. 

"  Ivan,  tell  us  how  you  came  upon  the  bear.  You're  a 
wonderful  hunter,"  he  said. 

Ivan  looked  round  triumphantly,  his  dull  countenance 
lighted  up  with  the  proud  recollection.     He  began  his  story. 
"  God  bless  his  soul !  "  he  commenced,  with  his  favourite 
expression.     But  the  dog  barked  suddenly,  and  rushed  out 
of  the  hut. 

"  What's  Mourjo  barking  for  ?  Ivan's  only  just  begun," 
said  Ostenoff,  in  jest. 

"  It's  uncle  Kalcho,"  cried  the  shepherd-lad. 
Kalcho  appeared  with  his  staff,  and  a    bag   over   his 
shoulder. 

"  What,  visitors  ?  welcome,  boys  !  "he  cried,  hospitably, 
setting  down  his  burden. 

"  Make  room  for  uncle  Kalcho  to  warm  himself." 
'*  My  stars,  boys,  but  it's  cold — cold  enough  to  freeze  all 
the  wolves  !     Where  did  the  storm  catch  you  ?  " 
"  Here,  at  the  bottom  of  the  hiU,"  said  Spirdonoff. 
"  But  what  are  you  out  for  in  such  weather — ^hunting  ? 
You  ought  to  know  that  this  isn't  the  time  of  year  to  be  out 
on  the  Balkan." 

"  Oh,  that's  all  right,  ICalcho — we've  had  good  sport. 
You  haven't  got  any  raki,  have  you  ?  "  said  Ostenoff. 

"  Kski  ?  oh  yes,  I  have  ;  but  I've  got  something  still 
better." 

The  little  flask  passed  from  hand  to  hand. 
"  What  can  there  be  better  than  raki,  this  weather  ?  " 
"  I've  got  a  piece  of  news  !  "     They  all  listened  atten- 
tively. 

*'  The  wolves  ate  two  IClissoura  zapties  this  morning." 
"  You  don't  say  so  ?  "  cried  Kill-the-Bear,  with  assumed 
surprise.     The  dog  again  barked  at  him. 

"  Yes,  my  boy,  they've  not  left  a  hair  of  them.  A  band 
of  Turks  went  to  look  for  them,  but  all  they  found  was  their 
clothes  and  their  bones  by  the  Sardanoff  hill.  Hajji  Omer 
Aga  says  the  zapties  must  have  been  attacked  while  they 
were  watering  their  horses,  and  tried  to  fly  one  way  while 


IN  THE  HUT  161 

the  horses  bolted  the  other  way.  One  horse  is  lost.  The 
wolves  seem  to  have  thought  the  Turks'  flesh  sweeter  than 
the  horses',  and  polished  them  off.  Here's  luck,  boys,  and 
the  same  end  to  all  heathens.  They're  a  race  of  dogs,  and 
may  the  dogs  eat  them  all." 

And  Kalcho  took  a  pull  at  the  flask.  He  then  noticed 
Ognianoff,  who  was  unknown  to  him,  for  the  first  time. 
"  And  who's  this  new  chum  ?  "  he  asked,  handing  him  the 
flask. 

"  He's  from  Kara-Sareli  ;  we  met  him  on  the  Balkan.  He 
was  out  after  the  same  game  as  we  were,"  said  Spirdonoff. 

"He's  a  plucky  one  if  you  like — your  health,  teacher," 
thundered  Kill-the-Bear.     The  dog  growled  angrily. 

Kalcho  turned  to  Kill-the-Bear  with  a  smile.  "  Why, 
Bear,  what  have  you  been  up  to,  you  rogue  ?  '* 

''  Nothing,  Kalcho,  nothing." 

"  Nothing  ?  you  ought  to  be  ashamed  of  yourself  ;  carry- 
ing off  a  girl  and  disgracing  the  pair  of  you.  Well,  I  wish 
you  luck.     Where's  the  game  for  your  wedding-feast  ?  " 

"  I  left  it  in  the  valley  below,  uncle,"  roared  Ivan. 

This  time  Mourjo  became  seriously  angry. 

"  Come  along,  Ivan,  tell  us  how  you  fought  the  bear." 

"He  ?  "  said  Kalcho,  looking  slyly  at  Kill-the-Bear, 
"  he'd  better  tell  us  how  he  fought  Staika." 

Loud  laughter  followed  this  sally.  Ivan  Ostenoff  wished 
to  assure  himself  that  the  Turks  suspected  nothing,  and 
added  :  "So  that's  it,  is  it  ?  they  were  torn  to  pieces  by 
wolves.  Don't  the  Turks  say  they  were  killed  by 
Bulgarians  ?  " 

"  Why,  the  whole  village  knows  it.  Poor  old  Stoiko, 
Lord  have  mercy  on  him  !  "  said  Kalcho,  who  had  mis- 
understood the  question. 

"  Yes,  I  know  all  about  that,  but  what  I  want  to  know  is, 
have  the  Turks  any  suspicion  that  it  was  Bulgarians  who 
killed  the  zapties  ?  " 

Kalcho  looked  at  him  with  surprise. 

"  Who  says  so  ?  Who  ever  heard  of  a  Bulgarian  from  our 
village  killing  a  zaptie  ?  I  tell  you  the  wolves  polished  them 
off,  and  the  Turks  are  getting  ready  for  a  big  hunt  to- 
morrow, to  drive  the  wolves  down  to  the  fords  and  shoot 
them  there.  And  so  much  the  better,  say  I,  we  haven't 
dared  to  take  the  sheep  into  the  fields  this  winter.  Here's 
luck,  boys  ;  may  we  have  a  merry  Christmas,  and  may  you 


162  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

all  follow  the  Bear's  example,  but  not  during  the  fast.  Have 
a  drink,  mate,"  and  Kalcho  handed  the  raki  to  Ognianoff, 
whose  forces  returned  under  the  influence  of  the  potent 
liquor.     He  raised  the  flask,  and  said  with  emotion  : 

"  Remember  Father  Stoiko,  boys,  the  victim  of  Turkish 
brutality.  May  God  rest  his  soul,  and  give  us  a  bold  heart 
and  a  strong  hand  to  £ght  against  Christ's  enemies  and  pay 
them  back  a  hundredfold.     God  forgive  old  Stoiko." 

"  God  forgive  him,"  the  comrades  repeated. 

"  God  forgive  him,"  said  Kalcho,  taking  off  his  cap. 
Then  turning  in  a  friendly  manner  towards  Ognianoff,  he 
said  :  "  My  stars,  mate,  but  you  know  how  to  talk  ;  God 
must  have  put  the  words  into  your  mouth.  Things  may  go 
on  for  a  bit  yet,  but  there'll  be  trouble  one  of  these  days. 
Let's  make  friends — what's  your  name  ?  They  call  me 
Kalcho  Bogdanoff  the  Cooper,"  and  Kalcho  handed  the 
flask  to  Ognianoff. 

He  gave  him  an  assumed  name,  and  drank  to  their 
friendship. 

The  visitors  ate  but  little,  wishing  to  spare  Kalcho's 
scanty  provisions  :  soon  after  they  took  leave  of  him.  He 
followed  them  to  the  door,  and  again  addressed  Ognianoff. 
*'  Beg  pardon,  mate,  but  I've  forgotten  your  name — never 
mind  ;  but  whenever  you  come  by  here  again  mind  you 
come  and  see  me — you  can  talk,  and  no  mistake.  God 
bless  you  !  " 

A  few  stirring  words  from  Ognianoff  had  strangely  moved 
the  poor  goatherd.  It  was  not  that  they  were  altogether 
new  to  him — he  had  shared  in  the  hatred  of  his  oppressors 
from  his  earliest  youth  ;  but  the  "  mate  "  had  spoken  a 
word  or  two  of  the  *'  struggle,"  and  these  words  had 
struck  on  a  chord  hitherto  untouched,  and  awakened  new 
feelings  within  him.  We  shall  see  later  what  result  these 
words  eventually  produced. 

The  confederates  were  soon  lost  to  sight :  they  made 
their  way  down  the  valley  to  the  village,  which  was  now 
quite  dark. 

Ognianoff  decided  to  spend  the  night  at  Dochka*s  inn. 
But  no  sooner  had  he  entered  the  room  than  fifteen  armed 
bashi-bozouks  mounted  the  stairs  :  they  were  led  by  the 
zaptie  whom  Boicho  had  noticed  on  the  previous  day  at 
the  cafe  in  the  Turkish  village. 

Alas  !  there  was  no  Kalcho  to  warn  him  this  time. 


PART  II 

CHAPTER  I :  TOGETHER  AGAIN 

Rada  could  not  contain  herself  for  joyful  expectation. 
During  the  whole  ^nnter  she  had  mourned  Boiicho  as  dead, 
there  seemed  no  doubt  that,  as  was  confidently  asserted  by 
the  Turks,  he  had  been  shot  in  the  Ahievo  thicket,  though 
the  body  had  never  been  discovered,  and  Sister  Rovoama 
took  a  maUcious  pleasure  in  dwelling  upon  his  fate, 
embroidering  the  recital  with  graphic  and  harrowing  details 
derived  from  her  own  imagination.  The  poor  girl,  held  up 
to  general  scorn  and  contumely  as  the  rebel's  betrothed, 
had  taken  refuge  at  the  cottage  of  a  lowly  relative,  and 
scarcely  ventured  out  of  doors. 

And  now  all  this  sorrow  was  forgotten — for  had  not  the 
news  reached  her,  through  the  faithful  Kolcho,  that 
Ognianoff  was  not  dead  after  all,  that  he  had  appeared  in 
a  peasant's  disguise  at  a  meeting  of  the  Revolutionary 
Committee,  which  had  recently  resumed  its  sittings,  and 
would  come  to  her  that  very  evening  ?  Small  wonder,  then, 
if  she  counted  the  very  moments  that  were  to  elapse  before 
his  coming,  and  peered  anxiously  from  the  window  every 
now  and  then  to  see  if  he  were  approaching,  and  if  no 
suspicious-looking  strangers  were  about. 

For  six  months  have  elapsed  since  the  vengeance  taken 
for  Father  StoJko's  murder.  These  six  months  have  been 
for  Bela  Cherkva  a  troubled  period  ;  the  discovery  of  the 
bodies  of  the  two  Turks  at  the  mill  had  led  to  many  arrests, 
and  had  redoubled  the  fury  of  the  ruling  race  against  the 
insubordinate  ray  as.  Dr.  Sokoloff  had  been  thrown  into 
gaol  on  suspicion  of  being  an  accompHce  in  the  crime,  but 
no  evidence  could  be  produced  against  him,  and  he  had 
moreover  a  powerful  ally  in  the  person  of  the  Bey's  wife — 
for  it  may  now  be  confessed  that  Hajji  Rovoama's  state- 
ments on  this  head  were  true  for  once  ;  he  was  therefore 
released  on  bail,  our  old  friends  Marko  Ivanoff  and  Micho 
Beyzade  being  his  sureties.  But  Lalka's  marriage  to 
Stefchoff,  followed  a  few  months  later  by  her  early  death, 
had  left  the  doctor  a  disappointed  man,  animated  only  by 
the  desire  to  work  at  the  same  time  for  his  country's  libera- 
tion and  the  destruction  of  his  hated  rival,  the  notorious 
Turkish  spy.    As  for  the  revolutionary  ardour  displayed  so 

163 


164  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

openly  before,  it  was  deemed  only  prudent  to  conceal  it  till 
the  storm  should  have  blown  over,  and  for  a  time  the  com- 
mittee ceased  to  meet.  But  with  the  approach  of  spring  the 
suspicions  of  the  Turks  died  away  ;  all  over  Southern 
Bulgaria  the  revolutionary  effervescence  broke  out  once 
more,  and  the  committee  meetings  were  again  in  full  swing. 
It  was  only  the  next  evening,  at  nightfall,  that  Ognianoff 
was  able  to  visit  Rada. 

Her  eyes  were  weary  with  watching.  Those  tedious 
hours,  full  of  anxious  longing,  emotion,  and  anxiety,  seemed 
to  her  to  be  longer  than  centuries. 

When  at  last  she  heard  Ognianoff 's  knock  at  the  door, 
she  seemed  to  have  no  strength  left  in  her,  yet  she  flew  to 
open  it. 

The  lovers  clasped  each  other  fondly  and  their  lips  met 
in  a  long  passionate  kiss. 

A  whole  torrent  of  joy  was  expressed  in  a  few  repeated 
kisses,  a  few  broken  words. 

After  the  first  agitation  of  their  long-deferred  meeting, 
the  two  happy  lovers  became  calmer.  Their  joy  was  in- 
expressible. Rada  was  fairer  than  ever,  with  the  light  of 
love  in  her  face.  She  thought  Bo'icho  had  never  seemed 
more  handsome  than  in  his  peasant's  dress  which  set  off 
so  well  the  fine  and  expressive  features  of  his  manly  face. 
"  And  how  have  you  been,  darHng  ?  "  he  asked  tenderly. 
"  Poor  child — you've  had  much  to  go  through.  I've 
destroyed  you,  I've  sacrificed  you,  Rada.  Yet  you  haven't 
a  word  of  reproach  for  me — ^you're  always  the  same  loving 
little  soul,  the  same  tender  little  heart,  bom  only  for 
caresses  and  kindness.  Forgive  me,  forgive  me,  Rada, 
dear  !  "  and  Ognianoff  pressed  her  hands  in  his  own  and 
ost  himself  in  the  depths  of  her  great  and  flashing  eyes. 

"  Forgive  you  ?  I  won't  forgive  you,"  she  cried,  in  feigned 
anger.  "  What  do  you  mean  ?  Do  you  suppose  1  am  not 
going  to  mourn  for  you  when  I  think  you  dead  ?  Not 
even  to  send  me  a  fine  !  Ah,  Boicho,  Boicho,  don't  die, 
for  God's  sake  !  1  can't  do  without  you.  1  want  to  be 
always  with  you — to  watch  over  you  as  the  apple  of  my 
eye — ^to  love  you — oh  !  so  much — and  to  rejoice  in  you. 
You've  suffered  terribly,  Boicho,  haven't  you  ?  Ah  !  how 
foolish  1  am  !  1  haven't  even  asked  you  what  you've  been 
doing  all  these  months — these  terrible  centuries,  as  they've 
eemed  to  me." 


TOGETHER  AGAIN  165 

"  I've  wandered  far  and  wide,  Rada,  and  gone  through 
much  danger  ;  but  there's  a  God  for  us,  too,  and  so  we've 
met  once  more." 

"  No,  no — you  must  tell  me  all  about  it — I  want  to 
know.  Such  terrible  stories  they  told  about  you,  one  more 
frightful  than  the  other.  My  God  !  how  can  people  be  so 
unmerciful  as  to  invent  sue  •  things  !  Tell  me,  Boicho. 
Now  you're  with  me  safe  and  sound  I  can  listen  boldly  to 
-everything  you've  gone  through,  however  terrible  it  may  be." 

And  she  looked  at  him  beseechingly,  with  inexpressible 
affection  and  sympathy. 

Boicho  had  not  the  heart  to  refuse  her  request.  She 
was  quite  right.  And  besides  he  was  only  too  ready  to 
disburden  his  soul  to  some  friendly  hearer,  some  responsive 
heart  :  the  memories  of  Sifferings  endured,  of  misfortunes 
gone  through,  possess  a  special  charm  when  related  in 
hours  of  happiness.  Boicho  recounted  in  simple  language 
his  adventures  since  he  had  left  Bela  Cherkva.  In  Rada's 
clear  childish  eyes  were  reflected  the  emotions  of  her  soul 
as  she  listened  to  him  ;  he  read  there  now  fear,  now  kind- 
ness and  compassion,  now  joy  and  triumph  :  she  swallowed 
eagerly  every  word,  she  endured  and  went  through  every- 
thing, and  did  not  once  take  from  him  her  glance  which 
cheered  and  comforted  him  so  sweetly. 

"  Oh  !  Boicho  !  some  one  must  have  betrayed  you  !  "  she 
cried  in  dismay  when  he  came  to  the  story  of  his  being 
attacked  by  Turks  at  the  inn  at  Altinovo. 

"  I  can't  tell — ^I  won't  accuse  a  Bulgarian.  Perhaps  I 
betrayed  myself  in  the  Turkish  caf 6  by  some  imprudent  act." 

*'  Well  ?     Go  on  !  "  she  asked  impatiently  and  excitedly. 

*'  I  heard  from  my  room  the  steps  of  the  Turks,  and 
understood  at  once  that  they'd  come  after  me.  Everything 
grew  dark  before  my  eyes.  I  saw  there  was  no  hope  :  I  was 
lost.  I  took  out  my  revolver  and  stood  by  the  door.  I 
had  six  bullets — five  foi  them  and  the  sixth  for  myself." 

"  My  God  !  my  God  !  to  think  that  all  the  while  I  knew 
nothing — perhaps  I  was  laughing  here  at  that  every 
moment." 

"  You  must  have  been  praying  for  me,  Rada,  for  God 
once  more  had  mercy  on  me  and  saved  me  from  inevitable 
destruction." 

"  Did  He  perform  a  miracle,  Boicho  ?  " 

"  Yes,  a  miracle,  if  you  like.     He  blinded  the  Turks. 


166  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

Instead  of  coming  into  my  room,  they  entered  the  first  room 
by  the  courtyard .  I  found  out  afterwards  that  immediately 
after  me  some  cashier  had  arrived  from  Philippopolis,  a 
Greek,  and  they  had  given  him  the  next  room  to  mine. 
He  seems  to  have  been  very  much  Hke  me  in  appearance,  and 
this  confused  the  zaptie,  who  had  seen  me  the  day  before." 

Rada  sighed  with  relief. 

"  I  heard  them  talking  loudly,  and  understood  that  there 
was  some  mistake  and  that  they'd  be  upon  me  in  another 
minute.  Only  a  minute  divided  me  from  them,  from  death. 
I  don't  remember  now  how  I  pulled  the  window  open  and 
flung  myself  into  the  road  below — ^not  the  road,  that  is,  but 
the  river,  which  was  frozen.  The  ice  broke  and  I  plunged 
into  the  cold  water  up  to  my  knees.  While  I  was  struggling 
to  reach  the  dry  land,  I  heard  a  deafening  noise — five  or  six 
guns  were  fired  at  me  from  the  window.  Then  I  turned  to 
flight,  a  mad  unreasoning  flight.  How  long  I  fled  in  the 
dark — where  I  passed — I  have  no  idea." 

"  Were  they  pursuing  you  ?  " 

"  Yes,  I  heard  them  for  some  time,  then  all  became 
still.  I  was  in  the  depth  of  the  forest.  It  was  night  and 
the  wind  was  blowing  hard.  My  clothes  were  frozen  as 
stiff  as  boards.  I  went  on  for  two  hours  to  the  westward, 
always  through  the  thickets,  and  at  length  reached  the 
village  of  Ovcheri,  more  dead  than  alive.  There  some  kind 
people  took  me  in  and  gave  me  food  and  shelter  ;  one  of  my 
toes  was  frostbitten,  but  thank  God  !  ....  I  stayed  there 
for  a  fortnight,  but  I  was  afraid  of  bringing  trouble  on  these 
poor  people — I  seem  to  draw  misfortune  on  every  one — and 
I  made  my  way  to  Pirdop,  where  Mouratliski's  brother  was 
employed  as  a  schoolmaster.  I  stayed  with  him  for  three 
months,  during  Avhich  time  I  was  dangerously  ill." 

"  Pocr  Boicho  !  You've  wandered  over  :  he  mountains  and 
in  the  flelds  all  the  winter — you're  a  perfect  martyr,"  said 
Rada  compassionately. 

"  He's  as  true  as  steel,  that  brother  of  Mouratliski's — he 
looked  after  me  like  a  mother." 

"  There's  a  noble-hearted  Bulgarian  !  "  said  Rada,  grate- 
fully. 

"  Yes  ;  and  a  great  patriot ;  he's  repaid  me  threefold  all 
that  I'd  done  for  his  brother." 

"  And  did  no  one  recognise  you  ?  Oh,  Boicho,  do  take 
care,  even  here  !  " 


TOGETHER  AGAIN  16T 

Boicho  had  taken  off  his  cap,  and  the  bandage  over  his 
eye.     He  went  to  the  looking-glass,  replaced  them  both,  and 
then  turned  towards  her,  greatly  metamorphosed. 
"  Do  you  recognise  me  now  ?  " 

"  I  should  recognise  your  face  under  a  mask  !  See  how 
he's  looking  at  me  !  How  funny  you  are,  Boicho  !  "  and 
she  laughed  merrily. 

"  You  know  me  because  you  love  me  ;  but  how  should 
strangers  ever  find  me  out  ?  " 

"  Ah,  hatred  has  sharp  eyes — take  care  !  " 
"  For  that  kind  of  acquaintance  I've  always  got  this 
ready,"  said  Ognianoff,  raising  his  cloak  and  showing  the 
butt-ends  of  two  revolvers,  and  the  handle  of  his  knife  fixed 
in  his  belt. 

"  Man  of  blood  !  The  sister  Hajji  Rovoama  was  quite 
right !  "  laughed  Rada. 

"  If  I'm  a  man  of  blood  you're  the  opposite  extreme — 
you're  an  angel  !  " 

"  Don't  make  fun  of  a  poor  girl." 
He  sat  down  again. 

"  Well,  go  and  tell  me  how  you  got  here.  And  who  are 
these  Mouratliskis  ?  "  asked  Rada,  who  had  now  heard  the 
name  mentioned  twice. 

"  Brzobegounek's  brother." 

"  What,  the  Austrian  here  ?  the  photographer  ?  " 
"  Yes,  Rada,  it's  an  assumed  name  ;  his  real  name  is 
Dobri  Mouratliski.  He's  as  much  an  Austrian  as  he  is  a 
photographer.  He's  escaped  from  the  revolt  at  Stara 
Zagora.  I  sheltered  him  here  and  concealed  him  under 
that  name.  He's  an  old  and  thoroughly  devoted  friend  of 
mine.  You  can  rely  on  him  entirely  in  case  of  need." 
Rada  looked  at  him  in  dismay. 

"  Why  should  I  rely  on  strangers  ?  There's  no  necessity. 
You  know  I've  got  my  savings  to  live  on." 

"  Yes  ;  but  you  needn't  look  on  him  as  a  stranger." 
"  But  haven't  I  got  you  ?  " 
"  I  must  be  off  again,  Rada." 

"  Going  ?  where  are  you  going  ?  Are  you  going  to  leave 
me  again  ?  " 

"  This  very  night,  in  two  hours'  time,"  said  Ognianoff, 
looking  at  his  watch,  and  replacing  it  in  his  pocket. 
Rada  grew  pale. 
*'  So  soon — why,  I've  hardly  seen  you  !  " 


168  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  I  must  be  at  K.  before  dawn.  I've  got  a  mission. 
Besides,  it's  not  safe  for  me  to  stay  any  longer  at  Bela  Cherk- 
va.  I'm  sorry  I  couldn't  even  thank  Marko  for  all  his  kind- 
ness to  you,  and,  for  that  matter,  to  me  too.  Ah!  there's 
some  noble  hearts  among  us,  Rada,  and  that  makes  me  love 
Bulgaria  still  more.  I  love  her  so  well  because  she  pro- 
duces such  charming  creatures  as  you." 

"  Oh,  Boicho  !  why  are  you  going,  darling  ?  But  no, 
better  go,  and  take  me  with  you.  You  must  go — you've 
devoted  yourself  to  Bulgaria.  Take  me  away  from  this 
black  town  ;  put  me  in  some  village  where  I  can  see  you 
often — or,  if  you  like,  let  me  do  something  for  the  nation  as 
well.  I'm  a  Bulgarian  too,  and  your  ideals  are  mine, 
Boicho,  and  if  you  die  for  Bulgaria  I'll  die  with  you.  But 
don't  let  us  be  separated — it's  terrible  to  remain  alone, 
to  have  a  thousand  terrors  for  you,  to  hear  bad  news  of 
you  continually !  Oh,  God  !  how  good  it  is  now 
we're  together !  "  And  she  placed  her  hands  on  his 
shoulder. 

"  Rada,  I  can  see  for  myself  how  sad  a  position  you're 
in  here,"  said  Ognianoff,  feelingly.  "  I  can  guess  what 
you  don't  tell  me.  My  enemies  persecute  you  still,  don't 
they,  dear  ?  There's  more  than  one  Hajji  Rovoama 
here,  I  know.  And  you  endure  all  silently — you  suffer 
heroically,  for  my  sake.  Poor  dear  angel !  The  great 
cause  which  has  so  entirely  absorbed  me  does  not  leave 
me  a  minute  to  take  thought  of  your  position.  I'm 
thoroughly  selfish — it's  my  fault.     Forgive  me,  darling  !  " 

"  Ah  !  Boicho,  Boicho,  if  you  leave  me  alone  again  some- 
thing tells  me  I  shall  lose  you  for  ever  !  I  shall  never  see 
you  again,"  continued  Rada,  and  her  eyes  grew  moist.  She 
added  in  low,  beseeching  tones,  "  Don't  leave  me  here, 
Boicho.  Whether  you  live  or  die  I  want  to  be  with  you  ;  I 
won't  be  in  your  way.  I'll  assist  you,  I'U  do  everything  for 
you  ;  only  let  me  see  you  oftener." 

"No,  you  can  do  nothing.  The  revolution  demands  a 
man's  strength,  bloodthirstiness,  merciless  ferocity,  and 
you're  a  perfect  angel.  Besides,  you've  done  your  duty  ; 
the  flag  you've  worked  with  the  lion  on  it  will  inspire  and 
encourage  us.     That's  quite  enough  for  a  Bulgarian  girl." 

Then,  as  a  thought  struck  him,  he  added  : 

"  Listen  to  me,  Rada,  will  you  come  to  Klissoura  and 
stay  with  Mouratliski's  wife  ?    I'U  arrange  it  all.    There 


TOGETHER  AGAIN  169 

may  be  danger  there,  too  ;  but  at  least  you'll  be  free  from 
the  intrigues  here." 

"  I'U  go  wherever  you  like,  if  I  can  only  see  you." 

"  I'm  acting  as  agitator  in  the  villages  round,  and  I  often 
pass  through.  Next  time  I  come  to  Bela  Cherkva  it  mil 
be  to  raise  the  rebelHon.  We  shall  see  one  another  till  then, 
Rada  ;  afterwards,  God  knows  if  I  shall  come  out  of  the 
struggle  alive  ;  it  will  be  a  great  and  bloody  struggle.  If 
God  only  blesses  our  cause  ;  if  our  country — ^this  much- 
enduring  country  of  ours — only  rises  from  the  struggle 
bloodstained  but  free,  I  shall  die  happy.  My  only  regret 
would  be  that  I  should  be  leaving  you,  dear.  For  my  love 
for  you  is  boundless,  my  whole  heart  is  yours  ;  but  my  hfe 
belongs  to  Bulgaria.  And  I  shall  know  that  at  least  there's 
one  heart  in  the  world  that  mil  pity  me  and  shed  tears  over 
my  unknown  grave." 

A  cloud  passed  over  Boicho's  face. 

Rada  seized  his  hands  with  emotion. 

"  Oh,  Boicho,  you  mustn't  die.  God  will  preserve  such 
heroes  as  you  for  Bulgaria,  and  then  you'll  become  famous. 
And  I — oh  !  how  happy  I  shall  be  then  !  " 

Boicho  shook  his  head  incredulously. 

"  Well,  darling,"  he  said,  "  we're  in  God's  hands,"  and 
taking  her  hands  in  his  own  he  added  : 

"  Rada,  whatever  happens,  I  want  to  have  a  clear  con- 
science.    I  may  perish  ;  indeed,  I  feel  that  I  shall." 

"  Oh,  Boicho  !  don't  say  that." 

"  Listen,  Rada  !  I  may  perish,  because  I'm  going  to  face 
death  ;  but  I  want  to  have  my  mind  at  rest  as  regards  you. 
You  have  united  your  fate  with  mine — ^the  convict,  the  out- 
cast :  you've  made  me  very  happy  with  your  love  :  you've 
sacrificed  for  me  something  dearer  than  your  life — your  good 
repute  ;  and  you've  been  cruelly  punished  for  it  by  the 
world  ;  you've  forgotten  all  for  my  sake.  If  I  die  I  must 
know  that  you're  at  least  an  honest  woman  before  God  and 
the  world,  k  not  a  happy  one.  I  want  you  to  bear  my  real 
name,  the  name  of  Kralich.  There's  nothing  dishonourable 
attached  to  that  name,  Rada.  When  you  come  to  Klissoura 
I  shall  call  in  the  Pope  to  give  us  the  nuptial  blessing,  and 
I  shall  try  to  provide  for  your  future  maintenance.  My 
father's  a  wealthy  man  ;  he  loves  me  and  will  carry  out  the 
last  wishes  of  his  only  son.  I'd  have  done  it  here,  only  it's 
not  possible  now.    However,  we  can  do  it  elsewhere.    I've 


170  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

no  ring  to  give  you,  Rada,  neither  of  gold  nor  of  iron — ^the 
iron  I  carry  is  for  the  enemy.  But  there's  no  need  of  that : 
above  us  is  God,  the  great  and  just  God  of  Bulgaria,  the 
God  of  crushed  and  broken  hearts,  of  suffering  humanity, 
He  sees  and  hears  us." 

And  taking  her  by  the  hand  he  knelt  down  : 
"  Let  us  pledge  ourselves  before  His  presence,  He  will 
bless  our  holy  union."     She  knelt  beside  him. 

Their  lips  uttered  sounds  heard  only  by  the  Almighty. 

^  V  ^  *1*  H* 

When  Ognianoff  left  the  house  the  street  was  quite  dark. 
In  turning  the  comer  he  met  and  almost  ran  against  a  nun. 
He  recognised  the  sister  Hajji  Rovoama.  She  was  going  to 
her  brother's  house.  Some  fatality  had  brought  her  to 
Rada's  door  just  as  Ognianoff  went  out. 

Hajji  Rovoama  fixed  her  eyes  on  the  peasant,  but  did 
not  recognise  him.  However,  she  turned  in  to  the  Lilo- 
vitches*  house  on  some  pretext  to  try  and  find  out  who  the 
stranger  was. 

The  next  day,  Rada  set  out  for  Klissoura. 

CHAPTER  II :  EXTREMES  MEET 
Chorbaji  Yordan  was  growing  older  and  weaker  every  day, 
and  the  death  of  his  daughter  Lalka  had  been  a  heavy  blow 
to  him.  A  gastric  disorder,  which  had  during "toiany  weeks 
confined  him  to  his  bed,  had  further  affected  his  character 
very  much,  and  rendered  him  more  impatient  and  exacting 
than  ever. 

That  morning  the  weather  was  delightful,  and  he  had 
ventured  out  as  far  as  a  garden  he  had  at  the  outskirts  of 
the  town.  It  was  a  good,  broad  piece  of  ground,  sur- 
rounded by  high  walls,  and  abundantly  planted  with  fruit- 
trees,  flowers,  and  vegetables.  The  walk,  and  the  fresh  air 
and  sunshine  combined,  invigorated  the  old  man,  who  had 
been  compelled  for  so  long  to  keep  to  the  house.  His  step 
was  firmer  as  he  walked  home.  But  just  as  he  reached  the 
house  of  Ghenko  Ghinkin,  his  son-in-law,  he  felt  a  sudden 
weakness,  his  legs  seemed  to  be  giving  way  under  him.  He 
turned  in  to  Ghenko 's  house  to  rest. 

At  the  door  stood  Ghenko  Ghinkin,  still  shyer,  more 
tipaid,  and  more  of  a  nonentity  than  ever.  He  was  carrying 
a  baby  a  few  months  old  in  his  arms,  which  was  screaming 


EXTREMES  MEET  171 

lustily  as  he  rocked  and  dandled  it  in  approved  nurse- 
fashion. 

Yordan  made  for  the  garden  seat,  overhung  with  flowers, 
and  seated  himself  heavily,  as  he  said  with  a  frown  : 

"  Confound  you,  have  you  become  a  wet-nurse  ?  What's 
become  of  her  ?  " 

By  "  her  "  Yordan  meant  his  daughter. 

Ghenko  became  confused — which  was  indeed  his  normal 
condition — and  muttered  incoherently  : 

"  She's  busy — she  said  I  was  to  nurse  Yordancho — she's 
got  plenty  to  do  to-day." 

"  She  didn't  tell  you  to  wear  a  petticoat  at  the  same  time, 
did  she  ?  "  asked  Yordan,  contemptuously.  "  Ghina,  get  me 
a  cup  of  coffee,  will  you  ?  "  he  cried,  without  looking  for  her. 

"  She's  busy  baking — she's  busy,  father — ^that's  why  I'm 
nursing  the  baby.  Coffee  ?  I'll  get  you  a  cup  of  coffee  in  a 
minute.  I  know  where  she  keeps  the  coffee,  and  the  sugar, 
and  all,"  stammered  Ghenko,  as  he  set  the  baby  down  on 
the  old  man's  knees  and  vanished. 

The  child  began  to  scream  louder  than  ever. 

Yordan  became  furious.  He  put  the  child  in  a  corner  of 
the  seat,  stood  up,  and  shouted  : 

"  What  the  devil  do  you  mean  ?  Are  you  a  perfect  fool  ? 
Ghina,  come  here  directly  !  " 

"  Why,  father,  good-morning  ?  How  are  you  this 
morning  ?  All  right  ?  You're  quite  right  in  going  out 
such  a  fine  morning,"  cried  Ghina  from  the  threshold, 
smiling  cheerfully. 

She  had  on  a  large  blue  apron,  her  sleeves  were  tucked 
up  to  her  elbows,  the  green  handkerchief  on  her  head  was 
pushed  back,  and  her  face  was  powdered  over  with  flour. 
She  looked  very  well,  and  reminded  one  of  some  of  the 
types  so  common  in  paintings  of  the  Flemish  school. 

"  What  are  you  doing  ?  What  does  that  wet-nurse  of  a 
husband  of  yours  mean  ?  Why  are  you  as  white  as  a 
miller  ?  Isn't  there  any  one  here  to  give  one  a  cup  of 
coffee  ?  "  grumbled  the  old  man  in  angry  and  authoritative 
tones. 

"  I'm  very  sorry,  father  ;  the  fact  is  I've  just  set  to  work. 
I'll  get  you  a  cup  of  coffee  in  a  minute.  Ghenko  !  wherever 
have  you  got  to  now  ?  Take  Yordancho  and  put  him  in  his 
cradle  this  minute  ;  he  ought  to  be  asleep  long  ago." 

'*  What  are  you  working  at ;  what's  this  you're  baking  ?  " 


172  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  I've  got  a  lot  to  bake — every  one  must  take  their  share — 
we're  Bulgarians  and  patriots  too,  aren't  we  ?  "  said  Ghina, 
as  she  laughed  boisterously. 

"  Bulgarians  ?  patriots  ?  What  in  the  world  do  you 
mean  ?    What  are  you  baking  ?  "  asked  her  father,  angrily. 

"  Why,  biscuit,  father." 

"  Biscuit  ?  " 

"  Yes,  of  course.    Why  not  ?  " 

"  What  do  you  want  biscuit  for  ?  Are  you  going  to  the 
country  ?  " 

Instead  of  answering,  Ghina  burst  into  a  loud  giggle. 

Yordan  looked  at  her  in  deep  displeasure.  He  had 
never  been  able  to  endure  his  daughter's  perpetual  and 
meaningless  laughter ;  no  two  persons  could  be  more 
thoroughly  different  than  she,  with  her  gay  temperament, 
and  her  father,  with  his  choleric  nature. 

She  approached  nearer,  and  said  in  a  whisper  : 

"  Who  thinks  of  going  to  the  country  nowadays  ?  We're 
getting  the  biscuit  ready  for  something  quite  different ;  it's 
for  the  boys." 

Yordan  looked  at  her  utterly  bewildered. 

"  What  boys  ?  " 

"  Why,  the  brave  Bulgarian  boys,  father,  when  they  go 
out  on  the  Balkan." 

"  What  boys  are  you  drivelling  about,  woman  ?  "  asked 
Yordan,  more  and  more  surprised. 

Ghina  came  still  nearer,  and  said  : 

"  For  the  insurrection  :  hasn't  the  committee  ordered 
it?" 

And  she  burst  out  laughing  again. 

Yordan  leaped  to  his  feet.  He  could  not  believe  his 
ears. 

"  What  insurrection,  woman  ?  what  committee  ?  Do 
you  mean  for  a  revolution  ?  " 

"  Yes,  a  revolution  !  We  won't  have  this  brute  of  a 
Sultan  to  reign  over  us  any  longer,"  said  Ghina,  boldly, 
but  she  started  back  the  next  moment,  for  her  father  had 
raised  his  stick  to  strike  her. 

The  old  man,  quite  pale  and  trembling  like  a  leaf  with 
rage,  cried  with  all  the  force  he  could  muster  : 

"  What,  you  donkey,  you  empty-headed  chatterbox, 
you're  going  to  make  a  revolution  !  You're  tired  of  your 
distaff  and  your  needle,  and  you  must  needs  begin  to  bake 


EXTREMES  MEET  178 

biscuits  to  feed  all  the  bandits  and  ragamuffins  in  the  place. 
Aren't  you  ashamed  of  yourself,  you  lunatic  ?  She  won't 
have  the  Sultan  any  longer,  if  you  please.  There's  a  hussy 
for  you  !  And  what's  the  Sultan  done  to  you,  I  should  like 
to  know  ?  Have  they  taken  away  your  child  ?  Have  you 
been  oppressed  in  any  way  ?  She's  ready  to  let  her  house 
and  child  go  to  rack  and  ruin,  but  she  must  pull  down  the 
Sultan  !  And  what  are  you  thinking  of  all  the  time,  you 
miserable  creature  ?  Are  you  of  the  same  mind  ?  Are  you 
going  to  follow  the  flag  too  ?  "  asked  Yordan  sneeringly  of 
Ghenko,  who  was  looking  on,  terrified,  from  the  door. 

Ghenko  Ghenkin  stammered  out  something,  and  fled 
back  towards  the  house.  Ghina  was  already  taking  off 
her  apron  and  arranging  her  dress,  for  she  saw  that  her 
father's  shouts  had  attracted  the  neighbours.  When  she 
saw  Ghenko  she  caught  up  a  slipper  and  seized  him  by  the 
throat. 

"  You  good-for-nothing  !  what  do  you  mean  by  saying  I 
was  baking  ?  " 

Ghenko,  in  the  proud  consciousness  of  his  dignity  as  a 
husband,  did  not  condescend  to  answer  his  wife,  but 
managed  to  escape  her  grasp  and  ran  into  the  room. 
Locking  the  door  securely,  he  breathed  again,  now  that  he 
had  placed  that  rampart  between  his  back  and  his  wife's 
slipper,  and  cried  triumphantly  : 

"  Hit  me  now,  if  you  can  !  I'm  your  husband  and  you're 
my  wife.     Just  let  me  see  you  hit  me  !  " 

But  Ghina  was  not  listening  to  him.  She  had  gone  out 
into  the  courtyard,  because  her  father  had  gone  away 
excited  and  angry. 

When  he  got  home  he  was  much  exhausted.  He  passed 
through  the  yard  panting  with  fatigue,  and  sat  down  to  rest 
on  the  bottom  step  of  the  staircase. 

Chorbaji  Yordan  was  utterly  amazed  by  what  he  had 
heard.  True,  though  he  had  long  been  confined  to  the 
house,  yet  some  rumours  had  reached  even  to  his  ears. 
The  secret  of  a  forthcoming  insurrection  was  everybody's 
property — even  the  deaf  had  heard  of  it.  It  was  supposed 
to  be  in  preparation  somewhere  towards  Panaghiourishte, 
among  the  mountains  and  the  woods,  according  to  what 
Yordan  had  heard,  so  the  flames  would  break  out  far 
enough  away  from  his  roof.  But  to-day,  from  what  his 
feather-brained  daughter  had  told  him,  he  saw  that  Bela 


174  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

Cherkva  was  also  on  the  point  of  an  eruption.  What  could 
the  Turks  be  about  ?  Were  they  deaf  or  blind,  not  to  see 
how  the  Empire  w^as  being  undermined  ?  he  thought. 

On  his  right  he  heard  children's  voices.  They  came 
from  a  window,  a  little  over  his  head,  by  which  the  cellar 
was  lighted.  Yordan  rose  and  began  to  go  upstairs.  As 
he  reached  the  third  step  he  mechanically  stopped  and 
looked  in  at  the  window.  There  he  saw  his  two  youngest 
children,  of  whom  the  eldest  was  but  thirteen  years  old, 
standing  by  a  bright  fire,  and  busily  concocting  something. 
So  deeply  were  they  absorbed  by  their  task  that  they  did 
not  notice  their  father's  head  peering  in. 

One  of  the  boys  was  holding  an  iron  saucepan  over  the 
fire,  and  watching  its  contents  with  the  greatest  attention  ; 
the  other  boy  was  taking  from  it  with  a  kind  of  shovel 
certain  dark  lumps,  of  which  there  was  already  a  whole 
heap  in  front  of  them .  They  w  ere  busily  engaged  in  making 
bullets  :  one  of  them  was  melting  the  lead  in  the  saucepan, 
the  other  held  the  mould. 

"  You  young  thieves — you  vagabonds  !  "  cried  Yordan, 
the  moment  he  saw  what  his  sons  were  about,  as  he  turned 
back,  shaking  his  stick  at  them. 

The  boys  hurriedly  left  their  laboratory,  and  fled  like 
the  wind  out  of  the  cellar  into  the  street,  where  they  dis- 
appeared. 

"  They've  ruined  me,  the  thieves — the  murderers — curses 
on  them  ;  they're  getting  ready  for  the  revolution  too  !  " 
cried  Yordan,  as  he  hurried  upstairs  rapidly,  for  anger  had 
galvanised  his  muscles. 

On  the  verandah  upstairs  he  met  his  wife  in  deep  mourn- 
ing. 

"  What,  Dona,  aren't  you  in  it  too?  "  he  asked  with  a  look 
of  suspicion.  "  The  whole  family's  gone  mad — they'll  ruin 
me — they'll  break  iny  heart,  at  my  time  of  life,  too  !  " 

He  gasped,  quite  exhausted. 

His  wife  looked  at  him  in  amazement. 

"  Pencho,  Pencho  !  "  he  cried,  "  what's  become  of  him  ? 
I  want  to  see  what  he's  about.  If  the  little  ones  are  making 
bullets,  he  must  be  casting  cannon-balls — a  set  of  rascals  !  " 

"  He's  not  here,"  said  his  wife  ;  "  he's  gone  to  K." 

"  What  the  devil  is  he  doing  there  ?  " 

"  Perhaps  he's  gone  to  take  the  £100  to  the  tanner." 

"  What !   to  Tossoun  Bey  ?    He  was  to  have  gone  to- 


FATHER-IN-LAW  AND  SON-IN-LAW  176 

morrow.  What  does  he  mean  by  going  without  asking 
leave  first  ?". 

And  Chorbaji  Yordan  went  to  his  desk.  He  opened  it 
hurriedly  and  began  to  fumble  in  the  drawers  among  the 
books  and  papers.  But  the  money-bag  was  not  there. 
Instead  of  it  he  came  upon  a  Lefaucheux  revolver  among 
the  papers. 

"  What's  this  pistol  doing  here  ?  Whose  is  it  ?  Who's 
been  meddhng  with  my  desk  ?  I'm  looking  for  my  money- 
bag and  in  its  place  I  find  a  revolver  !  " 

"  You  know  no  one  ever  touches  your  desk  except  your- 
self and  Pencho,"  observed  his  wife. 

"  There's  a  scoundrelly  son  for  you — there's  a  vagabond  ! 
I'll  never  make  a  man  of  him.  He's  an  enemy  of  the 
State,  a  revolutionary,  if  you  please.  Not  a  doubt  of  it  : 
he  must  have  persuaded  the  little  ones  to  make  bullets.  All 
of  'em  at  work  :  all  busy  weaving  the  rope  for  their  own 
necks  !  What's  the  meaning  of  all  this  infernal  nonsense, 
eh  ?  Why,  every  one'll  become  a  rebel,  down  to  the  very 
cats,  if  this  goes  on  !     Where's  Kiriak  ?  " 

"  He's  here,  making  up  the  bundles." 

Yordan  went  hastily  towards  the  room  where  Stefchoff 
was. 

CHAPTER  III :    FATHER-IN-LAW   AND 

SON-IN-LAW 
Stefchoff,  who  since  his  mairiage  had  become  a  regular 
inmate  of  the  house,  was  making  up,  with  the  assistance  of 
the  two  workmen,  the  bales  of  home-manufactured  braid 
ready  to  be  sent  off  to  the  Eski  Jouma,  a  fair  on  St.  Gregory's 
day.  So  as  to  be  more  at  his  ease  he  had  thrown  off  his 
coat  and  fez  ;  his  face,  though  flushed  with  the  exercise, 
still  preserved  its  usual  repulsive  expression  of  harsh  and 
unsympathetic  indifference. 

He  let  go  the  string  Avith  which  he  was  fastening  the 
bales  when  he  saw  Yordan  come  in,  excited  and  trembling, 
with  deep  furrows  on  his  brow. 

"  What,  Kiriak,  are  you  doing  there  ?  "  he  cried  as  he 
opened  the  door.  "  It  seems  you  and  1  are  the  only  loyal  sub- 
jects of  the  Sultan  left  in  the  house.  Every  one  else,  down 
to  the  very  cats,  have  joined  the  rebels  ;  they're  buying 
revolvers  and  making  bullets .  Fire  and  sword  are  being  pre- 
pared while  we're  sitting  here  getting  our  goods  ready  for  the 


176  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

fair.  I've  been  ill  all  this  while  ;  but  you  must  have 
heard  and  seen  all  this,  yet  you  go  on  letting  me  sink  so 
much  money  in  these  goods,  in  such  brigand  times  as 
these." 

The  two  workmen  went  out  quietly. 

Stefchoff  stared  at  him  in  amazement. 

"  What  are  you  staring  at,  you  idiot !  "  cried  Yordan  ; 
"  I  tell  you  my  whole  family  has  taken  up  with  the 
'  Komita,'  the  family  of  Chorbaji  Yordan,  the  Sultan's 
most  faithful  subject,  the  friend  of  Kaimmakams  and 
Pashas.  What  do  you  suppose  common  people  are  about, 
if  my  relations  have  become  insurgents  ?  A  set  of  ruffians 
are  busy  forming  committees  under  our  very  noses,  and  we 
stand  looking  about  us  like  a  parcel  of  fools  !  " 

And  Chorbaji  Yordan,  with  his  anger  increasing  every 
moment,  began  to  recount  the  discoveries  he  had  made 
that  day. 

"  You  must  have  known  this  kind  of  thing  was  going  on  ; 
what  do  you  mean  by  not  mentioning  a  word  of  it  to  me  all 
this  time  ?  " 

"  I  didn't  want  to  trouble  you  while  you  were  ill." 

"  Have  you  spoken  to  the  Bey  about  it  ?  " 

It  should  be  noticed  that  although  the  secret  was  common 
property,  Stef  choff  was  the  very  man  who  knew  least  about 
it,  partly  because  everybody  avoided  mentioning  the  insur- 
rection before  him,  and  partly  because  he  himseK  despised 
the  whole  business,  and  did  not  seek  to  conceal  his  con- 
tempt for  the  patriots  and  their  proceedings. 

Stefchoff's  face  flamed  with  sudden  anger. 

"  I'll  tell  the  Bey  all  about  the  scoundrels  this  very  day  !  " 
he  cried,  enraged. 

"  You  ought  to  have  done  so  long  ago  !  " 

"  They  meet  in  Beyzade's  garden.  Let  the  police  seize 
them  there  and  examine  them.  After  a  couple  of  hundred 
blows  from  the  stick  they'll  confess  their  mother's  milk. 
You're  right,  I  ought  to  have  stopped  these  rascally  plots 
against  the  State  long  ago,  and  I  would  have  done  so,  but 
for  all  the  trouble  we've  had.  If  anybody  isn't  satisfied  with 
the  government  here,  let  him  go  off  to  Russia  withjthe 
teacher  Klimet;  don't  let  them  try  and  bum  our  houses 
down."  '  r 

Stef choff  opened  the  door  and  whispered  for  a  moment  to 
some  one  outside. 


FATHER-IN-LAW  AND  SON-IN-LAW        177 

"  Do  you  know  who  the  fools  are  ?  " 

"  Sokoloff's  the  leader  of  them,"  said  Stefchoff,  his  face 
flushed  with  maUce.  In  his  hatred  against  the  doctor  was 
mingled  a  burning,  fiery  jealousy  ;  it  was  the  only  way  in 
which  that  stony  heart  could  be  affected  by  love  for  the 
departed. 

"  What  ?  is  that  scoundrel  still  at  it  ?  " 

Stefchoff  went  to  his  coat  and  took  something  from  the 
pocket. 

Yordan  watched  him  attentively. 

"  Here's  a  letter  I  found  in  the  street  yesterday,  just  by 
your  house." 

"  What  letter  is  it  ?  " 

"  It's  signed  by  Sokoloff,  and  addressed  to  some  vagabond 
of  the  same  kind  at  Panaghiourishte." 

"  What's  it  all  about  ?  Fire  and  sword  and  aU  that  sort 
of  thing  ?  " 

"  Not  at  all,  it's  quite  innocent  in  appearance,  but  I'll 
take  my  oath  it's  all  got  some  hidden  meaning,"  said 
Stefchoff,  putting  the  letter  away  carefully.  "  However, 
Samanoff  will  tell  us  what  it  all  means,  he's  such  a 
sleuth-hound,  he'd  scent  out  a  rebel  a  thousand  yards 
off." 

Downstairs  Yordan's  wife  was  superintending  the  prepara- 
tions for  dinner. 

At  that  moment  Ghina  came  in.  Her  mother  at  once 
proceeded  to  vent  her  rage  upon  her  for  having  so  angered 
her  father. 

"  What  are  you  angry  about,  mother  ?  You  ought  to  be 
pleased.  The  Chorbajis  ought  to  be  the  first  to  give  the 
example." 

"  Silence,  Ghina  !  "  screamed  her  mother.  "  You're 
mad  !     I  won't  listen  to  you  !  " 

"  I'm  not  mad,  but  I'm  a  Bulgarian  and  a  patriot  !  " 
retorted  Ghina,  boldly. 

"  Bulgarian  and  patriot  ?  Is  that  why  you  beat  your 
husband  every  day  of  your  life  ?  " 

"  I  beat  him  because  he's  my  master.  That's  another 
matter  altogether  ;  that's  a  matter  of  internal  policy." 

"  You  fool  !  Do  you  want  to  be  more  Bulgarian  than 
your  father  ?  If  he  was  to  find  out  that  you  get  newspapers 
from  Sokoloff  to  read,  he'd  beat  you  to  a  jelly,  for  all  that 
you're  forty  years  old." 

M 


178  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  Mother,  it's  not  true  !  I  was  thirty- five  last  Christmas. 
I  ought  to  know  how  old  I  am." 

But  this  dialogue  was  interrupted  by  the  servant-girl. 

"  Mrs.  Dona,  will  you  come  upstairs  ?  Father  Yordan  is 
worse,"  she  said  anxiously. 

"  There  you  are — I  told  you  so.  My  God  !  "  cried  his 
wife,  as  she  hurried  to  her  husband,  leaving  her  saucepan 
on  the  fire. 

As  she  ran  upstairs  she  heard  Yordan's  cries  of  pain.  He 
had  suddenly  been  taken  with  colic  in  the  room  upstairs, 
and  was  writhing  and  tossing  with  anguish  on  the  floor. 
His  face  was  distorted  and  convulsed  :  loud  and  despairing 
groans  issued  from  between  the  old  man's  clenched  teeth, 
without,  however,  assuaging  his  sufferings  :  they  filled  the 
people  of  the  house  with  dismay,  and  could  be  heard  in  the 
street. 

One  of  the  workmen  was  immediately  sent  for  Dr.  Yaneli, 
but  he  had  gone  to  K.,  and  would  not  be  back  till  evening. 
They  then  had  recourse  to  domestic  remedies.  But  neither 
compresses,  nor  friction,  nor  poultices  were  of  any  avail. 
The  sufferer  continued  to  writhe  and  groan  with  pain. 

Yordanitsa  did  not  know  what  to  do. 

"  Shall  we  send  for  Dr.  Sokoloff  ?  "  she  asked,  turning 
inquiringly  towards  the  sufferer. 

Stefchoff  muttered  something  with  an  air  of  disapproval. 

"  I  sent  for  him  last  year  myseff,  and  he  did  me  good," 
she  retorted.  Then  turning  again  to  her  husband,  "  Yordan, 
let  me  send  for  the  doctor." 

Yordan  made  a  sign  of  dissent  with  his  hand,  and  went 
on  groaning. 

"  Do  you  hear  ?  I'm  going  to  send  for  Dr.  Sokoloff," 
repeated  Yordanitsa,  persuasively. 

"  I  won't  have  him,"  faltered  out  the  old  man. 

"  You  won't  have  him,  but  I  won't  listen  to  you  !  "  said 
Yordanitsa,  resolutely.  And,  turning  to  one  of  the  work- 
men, she  said  : 

"  Chono,  go  and  fetch  Dr.  Sokoloff  at  once  !  " 

Chono  rose  and  went  to  the  door,  but  just  as  he  reached 
the  threshold  a  piercing  cry  from  Yordan  stopped  him. 

"  I  won't  have  him  ! — do  you  hear  ?  I  won't  have  the 
rascally  brigand  in  my  house  !  " 

Yordanitsa  looked  at  him  in  despair. 

*'  Do  you  want  to  die,  then  ?  "  she  cried. 


A  SPY  IN  1876  1T9 

"  Yes,  I  do  !     Get  out  of  my  sight,  d n  you  !  "  roared 

the  old  man. 

Two  hours  later  the  crisis  passed  slowly  away.  When  he 
saw  the  old  man  was  better,  Stefchoff  dressed  himself  and 
left  hurriedly  for  the  Konak. 

CHAPTER  IV  :    A  SPY  IN  1876 

When  Stefchoff  went  into  the  room  he  found  the  Bey  was 
not  alone  ;  Samanoff  was  with  him,  and  the  two  were 
playing  at  backgammon. 

Samanoff  was  the  accredited  spy  of  the  Turkish  Govern- 
ment, and  drew  his  pay  regularly  at  the  Konak  at  Philippo- 
polis.  He  was  a  man  of  about  forty -five  years  of  age, 
but  looked  older.  He  had  a  huge,  prematurely  wrinkled 
face,  dark  and  thin,  hghted  up  by  a  pair  of  black 
eyes,  which,  though  rather  dim,  were  always  on  the 
move  ;  his  expression  was  savage  and  repulsive.  His 
moustaches  were  cropped  short,  and  his  hair  fell  in  a 
dark  and  greasy  mass  from  beneath  his  tall  fez,  which 
concealed  his  increasing  baldness.  He  was  dressed  in  a 
dark  brown  suit  of  the  native  tweed,  very  shabby,  the 
black-cloth  collar  of  which  was  shiny  with  grease.  He 
was  tall  and  powerfully  built,  but  stooped  considerably,  as 
though  under  the  weight  of  public  execration.  The  whole 
appearance  of  the  man  was  suggestive  of  poverty  and 
cynicism.  He  usually  lived  at  Philippopolis,  but  made 
frequent  tours  in  the  neighbourhood.  He  was  a  native  of 
Bela  Cherkva,  and  knew  everybody.  He,  too,  was  known 
and  dreaded  by  all  who  had  any  grounds  for  fearing 
detection.  His  arrival  always  struck  dismay  and  aversion 
in  those  who  met  him,  yet,  though  he  knew  this,  it  did  not 
seem  to  affect  him.  He  faced  the  most  contemptuous 
glances  boldly  and  fearlessly,  as  much  as  to  say,  "  What 
then  ?  One  trade  is  as  good  as  another.  I  must  live  too." 
He  had  already  met  some  of  the  principal  residents  and 
extorted  money  from  them  on  pretence  of  a  loan .  Naturally 
no  one  ventured  to  refuse  a  request  from  so  honourable  a 
borrower  and  so  amiable  an  acquaintance.  He  evidently 
knew  that  something  was  going  on  at  Bela  Cherkva,  for  he 
asked  of  every  youth  he  met,  with  a  diaboUcal  smile,  *'  How 
are  you  getting  on  with  your  preparations  ?  "  and  in  order 
to  increase  still  more  the  confusion  of  his  victim,  he  would 


180  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

add,  "  It'll  all  end  in  failure  "  :  on  which  he  would  leave 
him  in  terror.  With  this  ill-omened  and  malignant  out- 
spokenness he  drove  every  one  from  the  streets  as  he 
passed  by. 

Stefchoff's  face  beamed  with  satisfaction  when  he  found 
his  powerful  ally  seated  with  the  Bey.  He  greeted  them 
with  a  gratified  and  famihar  salutation,  and  drew  up  a  chair 
to  watch  the  game,  shaking  hands  with  Samanoff  as  he 
did  so. 

The  old  Bey,  dressed  in  a  short  cloth  coat  lined  with  fur, 
continued  to  devote  the  utmost  attention  to  his  game, 
silently  saluting  Stefchoff  as  he  came  in.  When  the  game 
was  over,  Stefchoff  at  once  proceeded  to  business.  He  told 
the  Bey  in  detail  all  that  he  had  heard  of  the  revolutionary 
effervescence  which  had  again  broken  out  at  Bela  Cherkva. 

The  Bey  had  also  heard  something  of  some  such  move- 
ment on  the  part  of  the  rayas,  but  he  had  considered  it  a 
childish  affair,  unworthy  of  attention,  and  had  allowed  it  to 
go  on  unchecked,  as  was  the  cue  of  the  Turkish  authorities 
just  then. 

Now,  however,  that  Stef choff  took  the  mask  from  his  eyes 
he  was  surprised  by  the  widespread  nature  of  the  evil.  He 
turned  sternly  and  inquiringly  to  Samanoff. 

"  Petraki  Effendi,  what  does  this  mean  ?  Everything's 
ablaze  round  us  and  we're  playing  at  backgammon  all  the 
while  !  " 

"  I've  only  been  here  a  few  days  myseK,  but  I  know  all 
that  Kiriak's  just  told  you,  and  more  besides." 

"  You  know  it,  and  you  don't  inform  me  of  it  !  Upon 
my  word,  you're  a  valuable  servant  of  the  State,"  cried  the 
Bey,  much  dissatisfied.  "  This  gentleman  has  sho\^Ti  him- 
self to  be  a  far  more  loyal  subject  of  the  Crown." 

"I've  only  done  my  duty,  Bey  Effendim." 

Samanoff's  brow  grew  clammy.  He  said  with  much 
vexation  : 

"  Whatever  there  may  be  going  on  here,  it's  not  a  patch 
on  what  they're  doing  elsewhere.  If  there's  a  straw 
smouldering  here,  there's  a  haystack  blazing  towards 
Panaghiourishte.  But  the  Imperial  Government  isn't  deaf 
or  blind — ^it  knows  what's  going  on — ^it's  biding  its  time — it's 
got  its  reasons  for  it.  It  would  be  a  great  mistake  for  us  to 
start  the  whole  thing  and  compromise  ourselves  on  the 
strength  of  a  mere  trifle.    What  we  see  at  Bela  Cherkva  is 


A  SPY  IN  1876  181 

only  the  shadow  of  the  smoke  that's  rising  in  clouds  else- 
where. My  opinion  is  that  we  should  watch  them  carefully 
and  do  nothing  rash." 

These  words  pleased  the  Bey,  because  they  corresponded 
with  his  inclination  for  inactivity  and  his  hatred  of  all 
responsibility. 

Stefchoff  noticed  this  to  his  annoyance.  He  saw  that 
Samanoff  sought  by  means  of  this  cunning  explanation  to 
conceal  his  own  neghgence  and  want  of  zeal  for  the  interests 
of  the  State. 

"  Petraki  Effendi  talks  at  his  ease,"  he  said  spitefully, 
"  he  has  neither  family  nor  interests  here — ^he  doesn't  own 
a  ragged  carpet  in  the  town.  If  there's  an  outbreak  to- 
morrow, he's  nothing  to  lose." 

"It's  false,  I  protest,"  cried  Samanoff,  angrily. 

"  You're  right,  Kiriak.  I  must  have  the  cuckolds 
arrested  at  once,"  cried  the  Bey. 

Stefchoff's  face  was  triumphant. 

"  Well,  on  thinking  it  over,  I'm  of  the  same  opinion. 
Let  the  donkeys  be  caught,"  said  Samanoff  with  a  sudden 
change  of  manner. 

"  Then  we're  agreed,"  said  the  Bey,  with  a  sigh  of  satis- 
faction. 

"  Yes,  let's  have  at  them  this  very  night,'*  said  Samanoff, 

"  Where  do  they  meet  ?  "  asked  the  Bey. 

"  At  Micho  Beyzade's." 

"  At  Beyzade's  ?  I  see  it  all  now.  A  man  who's  more 
Russian  than  the  Russians  must  be  a  traitor.  Is  he  their 
leader  ?  " 

"  No,  Doctor  Sokoloff,"  answered  Stefchoff. 

"  What,  Sokoloff  again  ?  He's  succeeded  the  Consul 
then  ?  " 

"  The  Consul's  affair  was  mere  child's  play  compared 
with  this  new  business  of  Sokoloff's,  Bey  Effendim." 

"  And  who  are  the  others  ?  " 

"  Two  or  three  dismissed  schoolmasters  and  a  few  other 
vagabonds." 

"  I  know  their  names,"  said  Samanoff,  "  and  where  their 
weapons  are  stored,  and  their  agents  at  Panaghiourishte. 
They've  got  their  own  post.  More  than  that,  they've  estab- 
lished a  kind  of  government,  which  issues  decrees,  judges, 
and  condemns  to  death.  I've  thought  it  over  ;  perhaps  it 
will  be  best  that  wejshould  show  some  activity  and  give  an 


182  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

example  to  the  other  authorities,  only  we  must  go  about  it 
manfully.  I'll  search  their  pockets  and  put  them  through 
their  first  examination  to-night  myself .  After  that  you  may 
do  what  you  like." 

Samanofif's  face  assumed  a  still  more  ill-omened  expres- 
sion. His  words  greatly  surprised  the  Bey,  who  at  once 
changed  his  opinion  of  Samanoff  ;  he  saw  in  him  a  zealous 
and  trusty  servant  of  the  State. 

"  I'll  see  that  you're  properly  rewarded  for  this,  Petraki 
Effendi,"  said  the  Bey  in  a  protecting  tone. 

Even  Stefchoff  was  struck  by  the  spy's  knowledge  of  the 
organisation  of  the  committee.  He  saw  clearly  that  Sama- 
noff  was  now  burning  with  impatience  to  prove  his  zeal  and 
earn  his  reward,  and  had  for  this  reason  offered  to  take  a 
prominent  part  in  this  dangerous  business.  This  suited 
Stefchoff  admirably,  for  he  was  still  desirous  to  remain  in 
the  background  so  as  not  to  be  exposed  to  the  vengeance  of 
the  revolutionists. 

The  Bey  looked  at  his  watch. 

"  Are  they  there  now  ?  "  he  asked. 

"  Yes,  in  the  cellar.  They  meet  in  the  garden  when  it's 
fine,  and  drink  their  raki  while  they  talk  treason." 

*'  Well,  what  do  you  think  ?  " 

"  They  always  leave  Micho's  house  at  nightfall.  Let  the 
zapties  wait  outside  and  arrest  them  as  they  come  out,  and 
then  bring  them  here  in  a  body." 

"  That  won't  do,"  said  Samanoff  ;  "  you'U  only  arrest 
them  without  any  proofs,  and  they  can  deny  everything. 
No,  they  must  be  caught  in  the  room  at  Micho's  while  they're 
sitting  there,  at  the  very  scene  of  the  crime,  so  to  speak. 
Let's  take  them  with  all  their  papers,  protocols,  and  other 
documents.  Then,  it'll  be  all  as  clear  as  day,  black  on 
white  ;   there'll  be  no  denying  it." 

This  advice  pleased  the  Bey.  Even  Stefchoff  was  de- 
lighted with  the  idea.  The  spy  was  a  most  able  man,  and 
his  zeal  was  no  less  conspicuous  than  his  ability. 

"  Only  we  must  wait  till  nightfall,"  added  Samanoff ; 
"  these  raids  can  only  be  carried  out  in  the  dark." 

"  That's  settled,"  said  the  Bey  triumphantly,  as  he 
clapped  his  hands. 

A  zaptie  appeared. 

"  Is  the  on-bashi  here  ?  " 

"  Sherif  Aga  will  be  here  directly,  sir." 


A  SPY  IN  1876  183 

"  Send  him  to  me  as  soon  as  he  comes  in,"  said  the  Bey. 

The  zap  tie  saluted  and  went  out  again. 

"  Dear  me,  I  was  forgetting,"  said  Stefchoff,  as  he  turned 
to  Samanoff ;  the  spy  was  plunged  in  thought,  and  the  deep 
wrinkles  in  his  brow  seemed  to  bear  witness  to  the  dark 
designs  which  he  was  revolving  in  his  inmost  mind. 

Stefchoff  drew  a  letter  from  his  pocket,  and  unfolded  it. 

"  What's  that  ?  "  said  Samanoff,  suddenly  awaking  from 
his  reverie. 

"  A  letter  from  Sokoloff  to  Panaghiourishte." 

"  You  don't  say  so  !  " 

"  It  must  have  been  dropped  by  some  one.  I  found  it 
in  the  street  just  by  our  house." 

"  What  does  it  say  ?  "  asked  Samanoff,  bending  over  the 
letter. 

"  It  seems  to  be  written  in  a  secret  code  ;  it's  addressed 
to  a  certain  Lonka  Neichoff.  He's  quite  a  common 
peasant,  a  cobbler  at  Panaghiourishte,  who  passes  through 
here  every  week  on  his  way  to  the  market  at  K.  But  I'm 
certain  it's  meant  for  some  one  else — most  likely  the 
committee  at  Panaghiourishte." 

"  What's  the  paper  you've  got  ?  "  asked  the  Bey  inquisi- 
tively, for  they  had  been  talking  Bulgarian. 

Stefchoff  explained. 

"  Read  it,  read  it,  and  we'll  see,"  said  the  Bey,  preparing 
to  listen  attentively. 

Stefchoff  read  out  the  following  lines  : 

"  Dear  Lonka, — I  hope  you're  all  quite  well  again  now, 
and  that  your  wife's  got  over  her  illness.  You  must  keep 
on  giving  her  the  pills  you  have  from  me.  How's  business 
with  you  ?  It's  more  than  a  fortnight  since  I  saw  you, 
which  I  suppose  is  on  account  of  your  health.  When  you 
come  back,  buy  me  10  piastres'  worth  of  belladonna  at 
Yanaki's  pharmacy,  as  mine  is  run  out. 

"  Give  my  love  to  all  your  people. 

"  (Signed)      Sokoloff." 

"  No  doubt  the  letter's  in  code  language,"  said  Samanoff. 

"  Now  translate  it  into  Turkish,"  said  the  Bey. 

"  To  tell  you  the  truth,  it  means  a  great  deal  or  nothing 
at  all,  according  to  how  you  understand  it,"  said  Stefchoff 
to  the  Bey,  and  proceeded  to  translate  it. 


184  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  Stop  a  minute,"  said  the  Bey  at  the  very  beginning, 
"  by  pills  he  must  mean  bullets." 

"Maybe  it's  bullets,"  acquiesced  Samanoff. 

The  Bey  puffed  vigorously  at  his  cigarette  with  a  proud 
and  self-satisfied  air  and  resumed  his  expectant  attitude. 

Stefchoff  continued. 

*'  Hold  hard,"  once  more  interrupted  the  Bey,  "  he  asks 
how  business  is.  I  see  it  all — he  means  '  how  are  your 
preparations  going  on  ?  '  We're  not  such  fools  as  he  takes 
us  to  be."  And  the  Bey  winked  significantly  at  Samanoff, 
as  much  as  to  say,  "  Don't  you  make  any  mistake — Husni 
Bey's  an  old  fox,  and  you  must  get  up  very  early  in  the 
morning  to  take  him  in." 

Stefchoff  went  on  once  more.  When  he  came  to  the  words 
"  I  suppose  it's  on  account  of  your  health,"  the  Bey  again 
stopped  him  and  turned  inquiringly  to  Samanoff. 

"  Petraki  Effendi,  all  this  about  illness  and  health  seems 
a  trifle  obscure.     What  do  you  make  of  it  ?  " 

"  I  think  that  for  *  illness  *  we  must  read  '  health  '  and 
vice  versa,''  said  the  spy  with  an  air  of  importance 

The  Bey  became  pensive.  He  assumed  the  air  of  a  man 
who  has  fully  understood  the  deep  significance  of  this  dark 
saying. 

"  I  think  w^e've  got  'em  now,"  he  said  triumphantly. 

When  Kjriak  resumed  his  translation  and  reached  the 
word  "  belladonna,"  the  Bey  started  up  with  excite- 
ment. 

"  Oh  !  this  time  there's  no  doubt — it's  quite  clear — old 
Debela  Bona's  in  it.  Ah  !  every  time  I  see  the  old  she- 
buffalo  go  past  something  tells  me  she's  plotting  against  the 
State." 

The  Bey  was  referring  to  a  poor  old  woman,  sixty-five 
years  of  age,  known  as  Debela  (Fat)  Bona  who  passed  by 
the  Konak  morning  and  evening,  with  unfailing  regularity, 
on  her  way  to  church. 

Stefchoff  and  Samanoff  smiled.  They  explained  to  the 
Bey  that  what  was  meant  was  a  drug  used  in  medicine. 

"  Go  on,  go  on,"  said  the  Bey,  somewhat  crestfallen. 

Stefchoff  continued  : 

"  My  love  to  all  your  people — Sokoloff .     That's  all,  sir." 

The  Bey  cried  : 

"  My  love  to  all  your  people.  That's  quite  clear.  In  a 
word  the  letter  smells  of  treason  from  beginning  to  end." 


A  SPY  IN  1876  185 

"  Yes,  but  there's  nothing  to  be  made  of  it,"  said  Stefchoff 
dissatisfied. 

"  It  is  a  trifle  obscure,"  said  Samanoff. 

"  Obscure  !  of  course  it's  obscure,"  said  the  Bey  ;  "  but 
we'll  make  the  doctor  himself  explain  what  we  can't  under- 
stand." 

"  Yes,  but  it  would  be  interesting  to  find  out  what  it  all 
means  beforehand,"  said  Samanoff,  gazing  fixedly  at  the 
letter.  "  Give  it  to  me — I'll  decipher  it.  I've  got  a  key  at 
home  for  all  revolutionary  letters."  And  he  put  the  letter 
away  in  his  waistband. 

"  That's  right,  Petraki  Effendi." 

Stefchoff  rose  and  bowed  before  taking  his  leave. 

"  Then  it's  all  settled  ?  "  he  asked. 

"  Quite  settled — for  this  evening,"  said  the  Bey  ;  "  you 
can  go  to  bed  quietly — my  kind  regard  to  Chorbaji  Yordan." 

Stefchoff  left  the  Bey  with  a  countenance  beaming  with 
satisfaction.  As  he  got  to  the  door  of  the  Konak  Samanoff 
caught  him  up. 

"  You  won't  make  any  mistake  this  evening  ?  You'll 
superintend  the  raid  on  these  gentlemen,"  said  Stefchoff. 

"  That's  all  right — don't  you  fret  yourself,"  said  the  spy  ; 
adding  rapidly,  "  Kiriak,  lend  me  a  lira  till  to-morrow  ; 
I'm  a  little  short." 

Stefchoff  frowned,  and  felt  in  his  waistcoat  pocket. 

"  Here's  a  couple  of  roubles  for  you — that's  all  I  have." 

Samanoff  took  the  money,  but  added  in  a  whisper  : 

"  Come,  come,  I  must  have  more  than  this.  If  I  was  to 
whisper  a  word  to  Stranjoff  of  what  you've  been  doing  to- 
day, you'd  find  yourself  in  a  pretty  mess."  And  he  smiled 
ominously. 

Stefchoff  looked  at  him  uneasily. 

"  Samanoff,"  he  said,  "  if  I  hear  to-morrow  that  Sokoloff 
and  his  associates  are  under  lock  and  key,  you  shall  have 
ten  liras  from  me,  I  give  you  my  word." 

"  Right  you  are.  Now  just  give  me  three  or  four  piastres 
small  change  to  pay  for  my  dinner  ;  I  don't  want  to  change 
the  roubles  this  evening.  Thanks.  Good-bye."  And 
Petraki  turned  do^vn  a  side  street  to  go  to  the  inn  where  he 
was  staying.  Just  by  Hajji  Tsachoff's  house  he  met  Pope 
Stavoi,  and  stopped  him. 

"  Your  blessing.  Father  !  "  And  he  kissed  his  hand. 
"  How  are  you  ?    How  are  things  going  with  you  ?     Is  the 


186  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

money  coming  in  ?  Which  are  you  having  most  of  just 
now — births  or  deaths  ?  " 

"  Well,  marriages,  I  think,"  answered  the  pope  with  a 
forced  smile,  trying  to  pass  on,  for  the  spy's  piercing  look 
terrified  him.  Samanoff  grasped  him  by  the  hand,  and 
gazed  at  him  fixedly. 

"  Nice  time  for  marriages,  this,  when  to-morrow  or  next 
day  we  may  have  another  row."  And  he  winked  signifi- 
cantly at  the  pope.  Then,  suddenly  changing  the  conversa- 
tion :  "  Father,  can  you  lend  me  fifty  piastres  till  to-morrow 
morning  ?     I'm  rather  hard  up  just  now." 

The  pope's  face  contracted.  "  A  pope  has  no  money. 
I'll  give  you  as  many  blessings  as  you  like,"  he  said,  trying 
to  get  off  with  this  jesting  rejoinder. 

Samanoff  looked  at  him  sternly,  and  said  in  a  low  tone  : 

"  Hand  over  the  fifty  piastres.  Your  son  Gancho's 
secretary  to  the  committee.  I've  only  to  say  one  word,  and 
you're  all  done  for." 

The  pope  grew  deadly  pale.  He  took  out  a  coin,  and 
left  it  in  the  other's  hands,  pretending  to  shake  hands  with 
him. 

"  Good-bye,  Father.    Don't  forget  me  in  your  prayers." 

"  Anathema,"  muttered  the  pope  as  he  moved  away. 

The  rain  was  still  falling. 

"  My  boy,  bring  me  a  little  live  charcoal  in  a  chafing-dish 
(mangal),  will  you  ?  "  said  Samanoff  to  the  waiter  who 
followed  him  into  his  bedroom. 

The  waiter  stared  at  him  with  surprise,  as  much  as  to  say  : 
"  What  can  you  want  to  warm  yourself  for  this  weather  ?" 

"  Now  then,  hurry  up  with  that  charcoal !  "  repeated  the 
spy,  taking  ofi  his  coat,  which  was  drenched. 

The  waiter  brought  some  charcoal  on  a  shovel,  and  placed 
it  in  a  pan  which  he  drew  from  under  the  bed. 

"  That's  right.  You  may  go  now  !  "  And  he  locked  the 
door  after  the  boy. 

He  then  took  the  letter  from  his  waistband,  unfolded  it, 
turned  the  back  of  it — on  which  nothing  v/as  written — 
towards  the  fire,  and  waited  patiently.  When  the  paper 
was  thoroughly  heated  he  withdrew  it,  and  examined  it 
carefully  :  his  face  was  expressive  of  lively  curiosity  mingled 
with  satisfaction.  The  paper,  which  was  quite  white  and 
clear  a  moment  before,  was  now  covered  with  thick  yellow 
characters.    As  is  well  known,  the  letters  sent  by  the 


THE  CHERRY-TREE  187 

various  committees  were  written  in  sympathetic  ink,  and 
the  letters  were  visible  only  when  the  paper  was  warmed. 
On  the  other  side  they  usually  wrote  a  series  of  innocent  and 
meaningless  sentences,  so  as  to  throw  the  authorities  off  the 
scent  in  case  the  letter  should  fall  into  strange  hands.  But, 
as  usual,  a  secret  which  is  known  to  more  than  two  persons 
is  no  longer  a  secret,  and  the  vigilant  Samanoff  had  long 
since  found  it  out. 

The  letter  was  signed  by  the  vice-president,  Sokoloff,  and 
contained  an  account  of  the  decisions  and  plans  of  the  Bela 
Cherkva  Committee. 

After  he  had  attentively  perused  the  fatal  letter,  an  inde- 
finable smile  appeared  on  Samanoff's  repulsive  countenance. 
He  took  out  his  pencil  and  wrote  something  on  the  blank 
space  under  the  vice-president's  signature. 

And  he  went  out  hurriedly  towards  the  Konak. 

CHAPTER  V  :  THE  CHERRY-TREE 

Next  morning  the  sun  again  shone  forth  brightly  in  the 
deep  blue  sky. 

The  gardens  were  odorous  with  perfume,  and  the  rose- 
buds were  beginning  to  shed  their  fragrance  around  :  the 
forest  trees  gaily  crowned  with  white  gave  a  festal  appear- 
ance to  every  courtyard  in  Bela  Cherkva  ;  the  nightingale's 
note  was  everywhere  audible,  the  swallows  flashed  through 
the  air,  rejoicing  in  the  sun's  rays.  All  nature  was  full  of 
life  and  youth.  Heaven  and  earth  united  to  form  a  soul- 
rejoicing  picture  of  vernal  bloom  and  loveliness. 

At  that  moment  Marko  Ivanoff  stopped  at  the  bottom  of 
a  dark  and  quiet  street  at  the  outskirts  of  the  town,  and 
knocked  at  a  door. 

It  was  at  once  opened  by  a  strapping  youth  in  peasant 
dress. 

"  Is  it  here  they've  brought  the  trunk  ?  "  asked  Marko  in 
a  low  voice. 

"  Yes,  yes,  master  ;  come  in,"  and  the  lad  stepped  back 
and  pointed  to  a  door.     "  There  they  are,  walk  in." 

Just  then  the  door  opened,  and  the  first  thing  that  Marko 
saw  in  the  room  was  a  trunk — ^the  trunk  of  a  cherry-tree. 

Kalcho,  the  goatherd  (an  old  acquaintance  of  the  reader's), 
mounted  on  a  pile  of  wood,  was  busily  engaged  in  hollowing 
out  one  end  of  the  cherry-tree,  which  was  firmly  fixed  below. 
His  perspiring  face  showed  that  the  task  was  no  easy  one. 


188  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  Well  done,  Kalcho,  my  man  !  "  said  Marko,  watching 
the  process  with  interest ;   "  you're  getting  on,  I  see." 

"  Bless  you,  everything's  easy  when  you  know  how  to  do 
it,"  said  a  voice. 

Marko  turned  to  the  left,  and  saw  Micho  Beyzade  leaning 
against  the  wall. 

Chorbaji  Micho  Beyzade  was  a  short  dark  man,  dressed 
in  loose  Turkish  knickerbockers  and  a  woollen  jacket.  Like 
his  contemporaries,  he  had  had  little  or  no  education,  but  an 
active  and  eventful  life  had  made  him  a  man  of  wisdom  and 
experience.  His  dark,  twinkling  eyes  gave  an  intelligent 
look  to  his  face,  which  was  shrivelled  up  and  seamed  with 
many  wrinkles.  His  peculiarity,  which  had  become  a  by- 
word among  his  friends,  was  his  unbounded  partiality  for 
politics,  and  his  unshakable  conviction  that  the  fall  of 
Turkey  was  at  hand.  Naturally,  he  was  a  Russophile,  but 
to  a  fanatical,  ridiculous  degree.  Every  one  remembered 
how  one  day  at  a  school  examination  he  had  flown  into  a 
violent  passion  because  a  pupil  had  said  that  the  Russians 
had  been  defeated  at  Sebastopol.  "  You're  mistaken  there, 
my  lad,"  said  Chorbaji  Micho,  angrily  ;  "  Russia  can't  be 
defeated,  you  know  ;  you'd  better  ask  the  master  who 
taught  you  to  give  you  back  the  money  you've  paid  him." 
But  the  teacher  happened  to  be  there,  and  proved,  book 
in  hand,  that  the  Russians  were  defeated  in  the  Crimean 
War.  Micho  cried  out  that  his  history  was  incorrect,  and, 
as  he  was  on  the  school-committee,  he  took  care  that  the 
teacher  was  never  engaged  again. 

He  Avas  naturally  of  a  nervous  and  excitable  disposition, 
and  lost  his  temper  the  moment  anybody  ventured  to 
oppose  his  confirmed  convictions.  He  would  then  flame 
with  passion,  and  use  the  most  uncomplimentary  language 
to  his  opponents.  To-day,  however,  he  was  cheerful 
enough. 

"  Hallo  !  Micho,  how  are  you  ?  "  said  Marko  courteously, 
holding  out  his  hand  to  the  president  of  the  committee. 

"  We've  got  a  meeting  on  to-day,  and  I  thought  I'd  come 
round  on  my  way  and  see  how  Kalcho's  getting  on." 

"  Where's  your  meeting  to  be,  in  the  fields  ?  "  asked 
Marko,  sitting  do\ATi  with  his  eyes  still  fixed  on  the  trunk. 

"  It's  to  be  at  the  Green  Dell." 

The  Green  Dell  was  the  name  given  to  a  valley  on  the 
bare  hill  to  the  north  of  the  town,  which  was  the  first  spur 


THE  CHERRY-TREE  189 

of  the  Stara  Planina.  The  committee  changed  its  place 
of  meeting  every  time.  That  day  the  Green  Dell  had  been 
fixed  upon. 

Kalcho,  heated  and  perspiring,  continued  to  bore  away 
at  the  tree  with  a  gigantic  gimlet.  He  frequently  withdrew 
the  tool  to  clear  away  the  shavings,  looked  down  the  hole, 
and  went  on  again.  The  hole  now  reached  to  about  the 
requisite  point— that  is  to  say,  a  foot  from  the  thick  end  of 
the  trunk,  where  the  touch-hole  was  to  be.  Kalcho  cleared 
the  shavings  out  carefully,  peeped  down  with  one  eye,  blew 
through  it,  and  looked  at  his  visitors  with  an  air  of  satis- 
faction.    They  also  rose  and  looked  down  the  cavity. 

"  Why,  it's  big  enough  to  take  a  ten-pound  weight,"  said 
Micho,  "  but  we'll  fill  it  with  shrapnel,  it'll  pohsh  off  all 
the  more  heathens.     Your  cherry-tree  will  do  marvels." 

For  the  committee  had  decided  that,  in  the  absence  of 
proper  cannon,  which  it  was  found  impossible  to  obtain,  an 
attempt  should  be  made  to  construct  field-pieces  out  of  the 
hollowed  stems  of  cherry-trees,  bound  round  with  iron 
hoops,  such  as  were  said  to  have  been  used  in  the  Polish 
and  Carlist  insurrections. 

Marko's  face  beamed  with  triumph.  For,  to  tell  the 
truth,  the  cherry-tree  was  from  his  garden.  During  the  last 
few  weeks,  a  complete  change  had  taken  place  in  Marko's 
ideas.  The  revolutionary  effervescence  which  had  broken 
out  in  Bela  Cherkva  had  at  length  extended  to  him  also. 
He  began  by  taking  an  interest,  next  he  was  surprised,  last 
of  all  his  warmest  sympathies  were  enlisted.  If  this  kind  of 
thing  was  going  on  everywhere,  as  they  said,  perhaps,  after 
all,  the  whole  of  Turkey  might  catch  fire,  he  thought.  Was 
it  not  possible  that  the  knell  of  the  Empire  had  sounded, 
when  even  the  very  children  thought  only  of  arming  them- 
selves ?  Who  knows — ^who  knows  ?  This  thought  calmed 
his  apprehensions  and  increased  his  confidence  in  the 
future.  Resolute  and  sensible  as  he  was,  without  the 
slightest  imagination,  at  last  he  was  overcome  by  the 
general  excitement,  and  began  to  believe.  The  epidemic 
had  extended  even  to  that  sober  but  honest  Bulgarian 
soul. 

But  this  mental  process  was  not  accomplished  in  a 
moment.  Firm  convictions  are  obtained  only  through  the 
influence  of  a  whole  series  of  facts  and  impressions.  At  first, 
the  autumn  before  when  he  had  £;een  the  growing  savagery 


190  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

and  atrocities  of  the  Turkish  population,  he  had  thought  to 
himself,  "  This  life  isn't  worth  living,  it  can't  go  on  Hke 
this." 

It  was  the  first  step. 

Later  on,  that  spring,  after  Kableshkoff's  appearance, 
when  he  saw  the  excitement  that  reigned  among  the  youths, 
who  were  so  resolutely  preparing  for  a  hopeless  but  noble 
attempt,  he  said  one  day  to  his  wife  : 

"  After  all,  who  knows  ?  They  may  be  mad,  but  the 
mad  succeed  sometimes." 

Finally  at  Easter,  when  they  were  talking  at  the  cafe  of 
the  terrible  difficulties  in  the  way  of  such  an  attempt,  and 
the  awful  consequences  it  might  lead  to,  Marko  said  crossly 
to  Alafranga  : 

"  Mikhalaki,  a  man  who  counts  up  the  cost  of  the  pipers 
and  drummers  never  gets  married  at  all." 

It  should,  however,  be  noted  that  Marko  was  in  reality  in 
favour  of  the  preparation,  but  not  of  the  revolt.  He  was 
not  enthusiastic  to  the  last  degree,  like  Micho,  nor  had  he 
such  a  blind  and  unshakable  faith  in  the  result  of  the 
struggle  as  to  risk  everything  upon  it,  like  Ognianoff .  Bela 
Cherkva  ought  to  be  prepared,  so  as  to  repel  the  bashi-bo- 
zouks  when  they  should  attack  it  with  the  inhabitants  of 
the  numerous  Turkish  villages  in  the  valley  of  the  Strema. 
It  was  quite  surrounded  by  them  and  they  already  eyed  it 
askance.  If  the  revolt  broke  out  all  over  Bulgaria,  that 
would  be  a  different  matter.  But  who  could  affirm  that 
that  would  be  so  ?  In  any  case,  Bela  Cherkva  ought  to  be 
prepared. 

So  he  insisted  on  the  armaments.  Afterwards,  time 
would  Bhow,  he  said.  Three  days  before  Nikolai  Netko- 
vitch  had  come  to  him  and  related  his  unsuccessful  attempts 
to  obtain  the  trunks  of  a  few  cherry-trees. 

"  You  can  cut  down  my  cherry-tree,"  he  said.  But 
whether  through  human  egoism  or  through  parental  solici- 
tude, not  unnatural  indeed  under  the  circumstances,  he 
refused  to  allow  his  sons  to  have  a  hand  in  the  matter.  He 
wished  them  to  be  preserved  from  the  torrent  which  he  had 
been  powerless  to  resist  for  himself.  He  wanted  to  do  what 
was  impossible.  "  One  in  the  family  is  enough,"  he 
thought.  The  revulsion  in  his  feelings  had  not  become 
complete  as  yet,  hence  these  hesitations  and  inconsistencies. 
In  a  word,  Marko  represented  the  moderate  element  in  the 


THE  CHERRY-TREE  191 

national  party,  an  element  worthy  of  respect  everywhere 
save  in  revolutions,  which  seek  to  attain  their  ideal  by 
violence  and  extremes.  Sometimes  it  may  act  as  a  brake 
on  the  wheel,  but  too  often  its  effect  is  unfelt. 

Kalcho  was  busily  engaged  in  smoothing  the  inner  surface 
of  the  cherry-tree,  so  as  to  make  a  real  cannon  of  it.  He 
completed  the  touch-hole,  and  blew  through  it  while  a 
stream  of  dust  and  shavings  emerged  from  the  mouth. 

"  Well,  that's  Avhat  you  may  call  finished  !  and  a  good 
account  it'll  give  of  the  Turks,  I'll  be  bound,"  said  Kalcho, 
triumphantly. 

*'  Well  done,  Kalcho,  you'll  be  at  the  head  of  our  artillery. 
Now  all  we  want  is  Father  Lilo,  the  smith,  to  put  the  iron 
hoops  and  caps  on  it,  and  then,  there  you  are,"  said  Micho. 

"  My  stars,  what  a  noise  it'll  make,"  said  Marko. 

"  We'll  put  it  on  the  hill  above  the  Green  Dell ;  we  can 
command  the  whole  valley  from  there.  Wherever  they 
show  themselves,  we'll  mow  them  down  without  mercy,  it's 
a  wonderful  position." 

A  sound  of  steps  was  heard  outside. 

"  It's  one  of  us,"  said  Micho,  who  had  given  the  lad 
outside  orders  to  admit  no  one  who  was  not  in  the  secret. 

Popoff,  the  secretary  of  the  committee,  appeared.  He 
saluted  Micho  and  Marko. 

"  What  is  it,  Gancho  ?  "  asked  the  president. 

"  I  thought  I'd  look  in  on  my  way  to  the  Green  Dell  to 
see  how  the  artillery  was  getting  on." 

"  All  right  !  We  must  all  be  at  the  meeting  to-day,  to 
decide  whom  we're  to  send  to  Panaghiourishte.  They 
want  us  to  send  a  representative.     I'm  for  Sokoloff." 

"  What  do  they  want  a  representative  for  ?  "  said  Marko. 

"  For  the  general  assembly  there." 

"  General  assembly  ?     What  do  you  mean  ?  " 

"  Why  the  assembly,  man,  that's  going  to  decide  when 
the  revolt's  to  break  out." 

"  They'll  probably  fix  upon  the  first  of  May,"  said  Gancho. 

Marko  started. 

"  Oh,  that's  too  soon.  Better  wait  till  the  roses  have 
been  got  in,"  remarked  Micho. 

"  What,  are  we  going  to  rise  then,  too  ?  " 

"  It'll  break  out  everywhere  on  the  same  day." 

"  Don't  let's  have  any  folly." 

"  Folly  or  no  folly,  it's  got  to  be,"  said  Micho  shortly. 


192  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  You  don't  suppose  we've  been  preparing  all  this  time 
for  nothing,  do  you  ?  "  added  Gancho. 

"  I've  always  understood  that  we  were  arming  only  to 
defend  ourselves  against  the  bashi-bozouks,  and  to  see  what 
happens  elsewhere.  I'm  very  much  afraid  that  we  shall  be 
left  to  pay  the  piper  alone,"  said  Marko. 

"  It  would  be  a  shame  and  a  disgrace  for  Bela  Cherkva 
to  delay  for  a  moment — the  whole  nation  will  rise  on  one 
day — and  Turkey  will  be  done  for  !  "  cried  Micho  excitedly. 

"  Do  you  know  positively  that  that's  so  ?  "  he  asked. 

"  Know  ?  Of  course  I  do  ;  I'm  not  a  child.  That's 
why  I've  pressed  you  to  join  the  committee — to  read  the 
letters  with  your  own  eyes,  and  to  listen  to  what  Kableshkoff 
says.  Why,  the  very  spies  are  with  us.  Look  at  this  letter 
we  got  last  night  from  Samanoff,  written  on  the  back  of  one 
of  our  owTL,  which  came  into  his  hands.  Lord  knows  how  : 
it's  a  miracle,  I  tell  you." 

The  letter  was  the  one  we  have  already  seen  Samanoff 
explaining  to  the  Bey,  and  afterwards  deciphering  by  him- 
self. He  had  sent  it  back  to  the  committee,  to  their  dismay 
and  subsequent  relief,  with  the  following  lines  on  the  back  : 

*'  Mr.  Vice-President, — If  I  were  you  I  would  not  leave 
my  letters  lying  about  in  the  street,  where  Stefchoff  may 
find  them.  To-day  I  received  this  letter  from  him  before  the 
Bey,  to  whom  we  translated  into  Turkish  the  other  side 
about  the  belladonna  :  this  side  I  deciphered  myself,  alone, 
before  the  fire,  so  you  need  not  be  alarmed.  Another  storm 
was  hanging  over  your  heads  for  this  evening,  but  it's 
passed  over.  You  may  thank  me  for  that ;  only  you'd 
better  meet  somewhere  else,  and  more  secretly,  in  future. 
Good  luck  to  you  ! 

"  The  Bulgarian  traitor  and  spy, 

"  Petraki  Samanoff." 

It  should  be  added  that  the  unfortunate  Samanoff  had 
never  as  a  matter  of  fact  been  guilty  of  political  treachery 
so  far,  all  rumours  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding  ;  he  had 
undertaken  the  spy's  calling  with  the  sole  aim  of  getting 
money  from  the  Turks  as  well  as  the  Bulgarians.  In  order 
to  levy  blackmail  upon  the  latter  he  had  used  countless 
threats,  but  he  never  went  further  than  that.  Self-respect 
he  had  none,  but  conscience  was  still  alive  within  him. 


THE  CHERRY-TREE  193 

Clearly  he  had  not  been  intended  by  nature  for  a  spy,  but 
circumstances  had  remorselessly  driven  him  into  that 
tortuous  path.  Before  returning  the  letter  to  the  com- 
mittee he  had  skilfully  persuaded  the  Bey  to  postpone 
the  police  raid. 

He  eventually  died  in  prison  in  Asia,  just  as  the  San 
Stefano  amnesty  was  signed. 

Marko  shook  his  head  distrustfully. 

"  It's  one  thing  to  know  something's  going  to  happen,  and 
quite  another  for  people  to  tell  you  so.  Think  well  over  it 
before  doing  anything  rash.  Don't  let  us  have  a  second 
Stara  Zagora." 

Micho  lost  his  temper. 

"  This  is  a  different  thing  altogether,  Marko.  Don't  be  a 
child.  I  tell  you  the  whole  country '11  be  ablaze.  Every- 
thing's arranged  and  organised — ^they've  only  to  tell  us  the 
day." 

"  Well,  if  the  whole  country's  ablaze,  I'll  take  my  gun  too. 
But  suppose  we're  the  only  ones  ?  That's  what  I  want  to 
get  at." 

"  We  shan't  be  the'  only  ones — ^the  whole  country '11 
rise  !  " 

"Who  knows?" 

"  I  tell  you  it  will,  Marko.  Do  you  want  me  to  take  my 
oath  to  it  ?  " 

"  No." 

"  You're  a  regular  unbelieving  Thomas." 

"  I  want  to  feel  it  with  my  finger,  like  he  did.  We're 
staking  our  heads,  man  !  " 

"  Make  up  your  mind  to  it — ^we're  bound  to  conquer  !  " 

"  Why  ?  " 

"  Because  Turkey  must  fall — ^the  time's  come." 

"  Why  must  it  fall  ?  " 

"  Because  it's  written  that  Turkey  must  fall !  " 

Marko  thought  that  Micho  was  as  usual  alluding  to  the 
prophecies  of  Martin  Zadek,  a  Russian  "  Old  Moore  "  who 
was  perpetually  preaching  the  downfall  of  the  Ottoman 
Empire. 

"  I  don't  believe  in  these  new  prophecies.  The  almanack 
prophesies  rain  and  storm,  and  the  weather's  perfect — it's 
all  bosh." 

"  No,  no,  Marko,  Zadek's  a  different  thing  altogether — 
even  the  learned  beheve  in  him,"  said  Micho  earnestly. 


194  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  Oh  bother  !  it's  always  Zadek — can't  you  leave  Zadek 
alone  ?  " 

Micho  flared  up. 

*'  If  you  won't  have  Zadek,  I'll  show  you  another 
prophecy  still  deeper  and  clearer  than  even  Zadek's  !  " 

"  Whose  is  it  ?  " 

"  It's  from  the  Divine  Providence.  Only  the  Holy  Ghost 
can  have  inspired  it.  No  human  mind  can  have  found  it 
out." 

And  Micho  began  to  fumble  in  his  coat-pocket. 

Marko  watched  him  with  surprise. 

"  Dear,  dear — I've  left  my  pocket-book  at  home,"  said 
Micho,  much  vexed — "  but  never  mind,  I  think  I  can 
remember  it.  If  this  won't  convince  you  that  Turkey's 
doomed,  I  shall  wash  my  hands  of  you.  A  deaf  man  can't 
hear  the  sound  of  the  big  drum." 

And  Micho  took  out  his  writing-case,  dipped  his  pen  in 
the  ink,  and  again  began  to  search  his  pockets. 

"  Have  you  got  a  bit  of  blank  paper  about  you  ?  " 

"  No,"  said  Marko,  after  searching  in  his  own  pocket. 

"  Never  mind,  I  can  write  here." 

And  Micho  bent  over  the  cannon  and  began  to  write  on 
the  smooth  planed  surface  at  the  butt  end. 

Marko  watched  him  with  curiosity. 

Soon  certain  signs  appeared — they  consisted  of  Church- 
Slav  characters  with  their  equivalents  in  arable  numerals  * 
in  regular  alternation — ^in  the  following  order  : 

T(  =  30o)y(  =  4oo)P(  =  ioo)H(  =  9oo)I(==io)A(^i) 
K(-20)E(  =  5) 

n(  =  8o)A(=i)A(  =  4)H(  =  5o)E(=;.5) 
These  letters,  read  in  words,  formed  the  following  sentence : 
Typi^'ia  Ke  naAne — Turkey  will  fall :    the  figures  added  up 
denoted  the  fateful  year  1876  ! 

Who  was  it  who  first  discovered  this  marvellous  combi- 
nation ?  Who  first  rescued  from  obHvion  this  ray  of  fight, 
this  inexpficable  freak  of  chance  ?  No  one  ever  knew. 
The  younger  people  laughed  at  it  as  a  mere  capricious 
coincidence — the  older  spoke  of  it  as  a  revelation.  Thus 
prejudice  or  superstition  explains  what  reason  is  unable  to 
understand. 

*  In  the  Slavonic  alphabet,  as  instituted  by  SS.  Kiril  and  Metod,  each 
letter  has  a  numerical  equivalent,  as  in  the  Greek  and  other  alphabets. 


THE  CHERRY-TREE  195 

Micho  Beyzade  supplied  the  key  to  the  double  sense  of 
the  enigma — ^Marko's  waverings  were  at  an  end. 

He  was  speechless  with  surprise. 

Micho's  triumph  was  complete.  A  proud  self -satisfaction 
beamed  from  his  black  eyes,  and  the  faint  sarcastic  smile 
with  which  he  gloated  over  Marko's  amazement  seemed  to 
express  pity  for  his  unbelief — and  triumph — and  joy — and 
enthusiasm  all  at  once .  He  seemed  to  say  to  Marko,  ' '  Now, 
then,  let's  hear  what  you've  got  to  say  !  Martin  Zadek's  no 
good — but  how  about  this,  eh  ?  What  do  you  think  of 
Beyzade  now  ?  " 

While  the  two  notables  were  discussing  the  point,  several 
of  the  members  of  the  committee  had  come  in  unobserved. 
They  had  also  looked  in  on  their  way,  to  superintend  the 
completion  of  the  Bela  Cherkva  Krupp.  The  others  soon 
followed  in  the  same  casual  manner,  so  that  all  the  members 
of  the  committee  were  there,  except  Dimo  Bezporteff. 

"  I  can't  find  Bezporteff  anywhere  to-day,"  said  Ilia 
Stranjoff  ;  "  he  must  have  fallen  asleep  in  some  dram  shop." 

"  Ah  !  it's  a  bad  thing  to  get  drunk  aimlessly  like  that," 
remarked  Pope  Dimcho,  as  he  took  a  pull  at  his  pocket 
flask  of  raki. 

The  members  could  not  sufficiently  admire  or  praise  the 
new  gun.  It  lay  before  them  like  some  great  monster  with- 
out head  or  feet,  with  one  eye  in  its  back  and  a  frightful 
gaping  mouth,  ready  to  vomit  forth  fire  and  lead.  On  its 
bright  new  surface  could  be  read  the  cabalistic  words  written 
by  Micho — the  "  mene,  tekel,  upharsin  "  of  the  Ottoman 
Empire  : 

"  Turkey  will  fall— 1876." 

"  Boys,"  said  the  president,  "  didn't  we  agree  to  meet  at 
the  Green  Dell  to-day  ?  " 

"  Yes,  yes  ;  let's  be  off  !  " 

"  But  here  we  are  all  together  ?  Why  not  hold  the  meet- 
ing here  ?  If  you  ask  me,  I  prefer  this,  especially  with  that 
before  us,"  pointing  to  the  gun. 

The  president's  proposal  met  with  universal  approval. 

"  Well,  then,  let's  begin." 

"  But  where  are  you  going  to  sit  ?  " 

"  Here's  my  armchair,"  said  Micho,  mounting  on  the  gun. 

And  the  sitting  commenced. 


196  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

CHAPTER  VI :  MARKO'S  PRAYER 

Marko  left  Kalcho's  workshop  deep  in  thought  :   what  he 

had  seen  and  heard  there  had  made  a  great  impression  on 

him. 

"  Who  knows  ?  Avho  knows  ?  "  he  thought,  as  he  passed 
through  the  market-gardens  which  abounded  at  that  side  of 
the  town. 

He  went  along  by  the  river,  to  the  east  of  Bela  Cherkva, 
where  it  pours  down,  with  many  a  foaming  cascade,  from 
the  Balkan.  There  he  cast  a  glance  at  his  own  kitchen 
garden  arid  the  hole,  not  yet  filled  up,  where  the  cherry-tree 
had  stood  ;  he  smiled  grimly  at  the  sight.  From  there  he 
turned  back  through  the  gardens  towards  the  principal 
street  in  the  town,  which  joined  the  road  to  K.  As  he 
passed  by  the  cabins  of  the  carpet-weavers,  in  the  dusty 
plain  at  the  outskirts  of  the  town,  he  saw  a  great  Khoro*  in 
full  swing.  There  was  evidently  a  wedding  in  the  neighbour- 
hood, and  all  the  poor  and  hard-working  population  seemed 
to  have  joined  in  the  festivities,  for  the  Khoro  was  unusually 
long. 

"  That's  the  way  of  the  world  !  "  he  thought  to  himself  ; 
"  over  there  they're  getting  cannon  ready,  and  here  they're 
marrying  without  a  thought  of  the  morrow." 

But  he  at  once  observed  that  the  revolutionary  element 
was  not  unrepresented  even  here  :  the  dance  was  being  con- 
ducted by  Bezporteff ,  an  ardent  patriot,  though  too  fond  of 
the  bottle,  who,  although  slightly  lame,  was  a  renowned 
dancer.  He  was  waving  a  white  handkerchief  as  he  danced 
— in  a  somewhat  wild  and  eccentric  fashion,  it  must  be  con- 
fessed— ^and  imparted  to  the  endless  human  chain,  which 
followed  him,  the  strangest  figures  and  windings — at  one 
moment  the  Khoro  formed  an  irreproachably  regular  semi- 
circle, at  another  it  wound  round  him  hke  a  sleeping  serpent, 
and  again  it  untwisted  and  extended  in  a  straight  line  or 
took  some  other  fantastic  shape.  The  broad  soles  of  his 
shoes  came  down  with  a  vigorous  stamp  at  every  new  figure. 

Marko  slowly  approached  the  Khoro,  which  was  at  its 
height,  and  then  observed  that  Bezporteff  was  very  drunk 
and  was  tugging  the  whole  column  after  him  with  such 
ardour  that  one  would  have  thought  he  was  leading  the 
assault  on  some  fortress.  His  enthusiasm  had  spread  to 
*  Kioro,  the  national  dance  of  Bulgaria. 


MARKO'S  PRAYER  197 

the  farthest  extremity  of  the  column,  where  the  five-year-old 
children  were.  At  his  bidding  the  musicians  had  ceased 
playing,  and  the  dancers  themselves  sang  as  they  danced, 
keeping  time  with  the  song.  Marko  heard  the  following 
verse  of  the  song  : 

Kalina,  can  you  tell  me,  dear, 
Will  brother  Kolio  come  to-day  ? 
Will  brother  Kolio  come  to-day 
And  bring  a  birthday-gift  for  you  ? 
A  necklace  for  your  neck  so  white, 
A  waistband  for  your  waist  so  slim, 
A  kerchief  for  your  hair  so  bright, 
And  slippers  for  your  tiny  feet. 

And  the  dance  went  on  with  fresh  vigour. 

Marko  stopped  beneath  the  eaves  of  the  smithy  to  rest  a 
little  and  enjoy  the  gay  sight. 

Suddenly  Bezporteff  noticed  him.  He  at  once  left  the 
Khoro  and  hastened  towards  him,  still  waving  his  handker- 
chief and  keeping  time  to  the  music.  On  his  pale,  elongated 
and  bony  face,  with  its  red  moustache  and  twinkling  grey 
eyes,  was  depicted  a  certain  wild  glee  and  excitement 
produced  by  intoxication. 

"  Hurrah  !  Marko  !  Hurrah  for  you  and  for  Bulgaria  ! 
and  all  her  brave  sons  !  Stand  us  a  glass  of  wine,  Marko. 
Thanks  !  Hurrah  !  Beg  pardon,  Marko,  I'm  as  drunk  as 
I  can  be — that's  so — but  I  know  what  I'm  about.  Yes,  I'm 
a  true  Bulgarian.  I  see  the  sufferings  of  the  nation — that's 
why  I  say,  '  We've  had  enough  slavery  and  drunkenness  : 
we'd  better  die  than  go  on  like  this.'  They  may  say  : 
'  You're  as  drunk  as  a  Russian  sapojnik  '  (cobbler).  Who- 
ever says  that  is  a  traitor.  My  heart's  sore  for  Bulgaria, 
that  poor  slave  of  the  Turks .  All  we  want  is  our  rights — the 
rights  of  humanity.  '  We  seek  not  fame  nor  riches,  we 
seek  not  land  nor  wives.'*  But  you  may  say  people  do  get 
married,  how  about  that  ?  Well,  I  answer,  that's  the  way 
of  the  world.  If  the  word's  given  to-morrow  :  Forward, 
march,  set  fire  to  your  houses,  and  off  we  go  to  the  Balkan  ! 
A  man  who's  afraid  of  the  birds  doesn't  sow  millet — you 
know  what  I  mean  !  Long  live  all  patriots  like  you — I'd 
kiss  their  hands  and  their  feet.     But  as  for  Yordan  Chorbaji 

*  These  are  the  first  two  lines  of  a  patriotic  song  by  M.  StambolofE, 
the  famous  Prime  Minister  of  Bulgaria. 


198  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

— I'd  like  to  give  him  a  good  hiding  with  my  belt.  And 
Stef choff  ?  the  devil  take  the  fellow  !  .  .  .  But  a  dog  may 
sleep  under  a  rock — sooner  or  later.  Why,  I'm  as  drunk 
as  a — ^as  a  .  .  .  It's  love  for  my  country  that  makes  me 
drunk.  The  hour's  nigh.  I'm  alive  to-day — but  to- 
morrow I  may  be  dust — ashes — ^nothing.  It's  a  fool  of  a 
world,  and  that's  the  truth.  And  whoever  dies  for  the 
nation  \^'ill  live  for  ever  and  ever.  Hooray  !  long  live 
Bulgaria  !  And  what  am  I  ?  an  ass  who's  afraid  of  cold 
water." 

Bezporteff  stopped  suddenly,  for  he  saw  that  a  Turk  was 
riding  by  on  horseback,  an  unusual  sight  of  late.  Pointing 
to  the  Turk,  he  began  to  sing  : 

On  to  the  struggle  :  the  enemy  draws  near  ; 
Beats  every  heart,  hut  it  heats  not  from  fear  ! 
Courage,  the  hrave  hand  grows  stronger  and  stronger, 
We'll  he  submissive  rayas  no  longer  ! 

"  Forward,  forward  !  "  cried  Bezporteff,  as  though  he 
was  urging  on  some  invisible  band,  and  rushed  at  the 
Turk. 

The  Turk,  seeing  Bezporteff  making  for  him,  stopped. 

Bezporteff  reached  him,  seized  his  arm,  and  cried  : 

"  Turk,  where  are  you  going  ?  How  dare  you  pollute 
this  sacred  soil  ?  This  soil  is  Bulgarian — your  country  is 
not  here,  but  in  the  wilds  of  Asia.  Be  off  there  at  once  ! 
Down,  you  brute,  and  kiss  this  soil.  If  you  don't,  the  devil 
take  your  Sultan,  and  his  pages,  and  his  paramours  !  " 

The  Turk  did  not  understand  what  Bezporteff  said,  but  he 
saw  that  he  was  very  drunk  :  he  became  alarmed  and 
spurred  his  horse,  but  Bezporteff  caught  at  the  bridle. 

"  What  do  you  want,  Chorbaji  ?  "  asked  the  Turk,  in 
dismay. 

"  Get  do\vn  or  I'll  drink  your  blood,"  shouted  Bezporteff 
fiercely,  as  he  drew  his  glittering  knife. 

The  Turk  had  some  weapon  or  other  in  his  belt,  but  he 
forgot  it,  and  got  down  trembling  and  submissive. 

"  What  do  you  want,  Chorbaji  ?  "  he  repeated,  terrified 
by  the  vindictive  look  of  his  assailant. 

"  Where  are  you  going,  Turk  ?  " 

"  To  K." 

"  And  when  are  you  going  to  Mecca  ?  " 


MARKO'S  PRAYER  199 

The  Turk  lost  his  presence  of  mind  entirely — his  voice 
seemed  to  stick  in  his  throat — ^he  could  scarcely  falter  out : 

"  Chorbaji,  leave  me  alone." 

"  Come  along  and  we'll  go  to  Mecca  together,"  raved 
Bezporteff  ;  "  wait  till  I  get  on  your  back — you've  ridden  on 
the  Bulgarians  for  a  thousand  years."  And  Bezporteff 
nimbly  leaped  on  his  back  and  clasped  him  tightly  round 
the  neck — "  now  then,  step  out,  for  Mecca  !  "  he  cried. 

And  before  the  whole  crowd,  amid  shouts  and  laughter, 
the  Turk  set  out,  spurred  on  by  Bezporteff. 

The  horse  followed  its  master  sadly. 

"  Who  knows  ?  who  knows  ?  "  thought  Marko  to  himself 
on  his  way  home — he  had  not  yet  recovered  from  the  shock 
of  surprise  caused  by  the  events  he  had  just  witnessed. 
He  had  lived  for  fifty  years,  and  could  remember  the  time 
when  Bulgarians  were  forbidden  to  wear  green,  and  were 
obliged  to  dismount  if  they  met  a  Turk  :  he  had  himself 
seen,  undergone,  endured  so  many  degradations  as  a  raya 
that  now  he  could  not  beheve  his  eyes.  He  saw  that 
before  the  whole  crowd,  in  sight  of  a  thousand  spectators, 
a  Turk  had  dismounted  from  his  horse  at  the  bidding  of  a 
lame,  drunken  Bulgarian  ;  that  this  Turk  had  forgotten  his 
weapons  and  his  nationality  and  had  submitted  to  be  ridden 
by  Bezporteff  like  a  beast  of  burden  through  the  town. 
And  all  this  so  simply,  so  suddenly — so  terribly  suddenly  ! 
And  yet  it  was  not  altogether  by  chance,  or  a  mere  drunken 
frolic — it  would  have  been  impossible  a  day  before — to-day 
it  was  possible,  and  every  one  applauded  as  if  it  were  the 
most  natural  thing  in  the  world.  What  did  all  this  mean  ? 
Why  was  the  raya  so  bold,  and  the  ruling  race  so  submissive 
to-day  ?  Had  the  death  knell  of  the  Empire  really  rung, 
and  were  Beyzad^  and  the  youngsters  right  after  all  ? 

"  Who  knows — who  knows  ?  " 

In  his  reverie  he  stopped  to  look  at  the  children  just 
released  from  school.  They  were  Merdivenjieff's  pupils, 
and  were  formed  in  a  long  column  two  abreast.  They  kept 
step  as  they  marched,  like  soldiers,  under  the  command  of 
officers  who  marched  at  the  side  :  the  general  was  at  the 
head.  Marko's  Asen  held  a  stick  with  a  red  handkerchief 
tied  to  it — this  was  their  flag. 

Marko  stood  amazed. 

"  They've  all  gone  mad,  from  the  old  greybeards  to  the 
very  school-children  !  "  he  thought,  "  all  gone  mad  !  " 


200  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

He  took  Asen  by  the  ear,  and  asked  him  with  a  smile  : 

"  And  what's  that  you're  carrying,  you  young  monkey  ?  " 

This  reminded  him  that,  at  any  rate,  his  elder  children 
had  remained  unscathed,  that  he  had  not  noticed  the  same 
fermentation  of  spirit  among  them  as  had  spread  to  every 
one  else,  himself  included. 

"  Thank  goodness,  they're  out  of  it  at  least.  God  bless 
'em  !     I'm  in  for  it,  that's  quite  enough  !  " 

But  a  bitter  thought  occurred  to  him  ;  he  added  sadly  : 

"  What,  haven't  the  rascals  got  blood  in  their  veins  ? 
Have  I  brought  them  up  to  be  traders  ?  But  no — ^no — let 
'em  keep  aloof,  one  in  a  house  is  enough." 

The  sun  was  just  approaching  the  meridian. 

Marko  reached  his  home  uneasy  and  annoyed,  went  into 
his  room,  and  examined  his  pistols  which  were  hanging  on 
the  wall.  Next  he  opened  a  large  closet  concealed  behind 
the  door,  with  the  intention  of  putting  new  flints  to  two 
old  pistols  which  had  come  down  from  his  grandfather,  and 
long  ago  had  been  thrown  aside  as  useless.  The  closet  was 
quite  dark ;  he  tried  to  feel  for  what  he  wanted,  but  it  was 
impossible  ;  he  had  to  light  a  candle  to  see — when  he 
brought  the  light,  what  was  his  surprise  !  Instead  of  the 
two  old  pistols,  he  found  an  array  of  guns,  pistols,  and 
revolvers,  a  complete  arsenal ;  at  the  same  time  it  seemed  to 
be  a  kind  of  mihtary  store — in  a  comer  hung  heavy  cartridge- 
cases,  sandals,  boots,  uniforms  of  European  cut  trimmed  and 
braided,  and  other  strange  and  suspicious-looking  articles. 

He  called  grandmother  Ivanitsa,  who  at  once  appeared. 

"  Why,  mother,  who's  been  opening  the  closet  ?  Who's 
been  up  to  all  these  games,  I  should  like  to  know  ?  " 

The  grandmother  looked  at  him  with  surprise. 

"  Who's  been  opening  it  ?  Do  you  think  I  have  ?  Why, 
all  of  them,  Vasil,  Dimitr,  Kiro,  they're  all  in  and  out  the 
whole  day  up  to  something.  Who  knows  what  they're 
doing  in  there  in  the  dark  ?  " 

Marko  became  confused. 

"  The  devil  take  the  young  brigands,"  he  cried,  scratching 
his  head. 

He  examined  carefully,  with  the  light,  the  contents  of  the 
closet,  and  muttered,  with  an  indescribable  expression  on 
his  face  : 

"  Mad— mad  !     God  bless  'em  !  " 

And  he  closed  the  door  again. 


A  NATION  INTOXICATED  201 

He  went  straight  to  the  eikonostasis,  and  knelt  humbly 
before  the  image  of  the  Saviour.  He  was  uttering  some 
prayer  not  to  be  found  in  his  missal.  He  was  praying  for 
Bulgaria  ! 

For  the  first  time  in  his  life  he  was  praying  for  Bulgaria  ! 


CHAPTER  VII :    A  NATION  INTOXICATED 

In  truth,  as  spring  went  on,  the  revolutionary  movement 
made  giant  strides.  The  whole  of  Western  Thrace,  where 
the  excitement  was  most  general,  resembled  a  huge  volcano, 
the  dull  rumbling  of  which  announced  the  coming  eruption. 
A  stream  of  apostles  and  agitators  traversed  mountain  and 
plain  and  organised  the  contest.  Everywhere  they  met 
with  the  same  welcome — everywhere  arms  were  opened  to 
receive  them,  hearts  to  absorb  their  words — the  whole 
nation  thirsted  after  the  stirring  language  of  freedom,  and 
was  impatient  to  bear  its  cross  to  the  new  Golgotha.  A 
long  list  of  workers  had  already  prepared  the  soil,  and  had 
even  sown  there  the  seeds  of  a  love  for  freedom.  These 
workers,  beginning  from  Paissi,  a  monk,  and  ending  with 
Levski,  a  deacon — both  saints — ^had  sown  and  watered  the 
field  ;  the  former  had  shed  upon  it  his  blessing  from  Mount 
Athos,  the  latter  from  the  gallows.  Twenty  years  before, 
Rakoffski  had  ventured  in  a  village  to  advocate  the  revolt — 
he  had  to  fly  for  his  life,  disguised  in  woman's  dress,  from 
the  fury  of  the  villagers.  Now,  when  villagers  heard  that 
an  apostle  was  coming,  they  sent  out  deputations  to  welcome 
him  and  herald  his  approach.  They  listened,  they  swallowed 
thirstily  every  word  of  that  life-inspiring  speech,  even  as  the 
parched  throat  does  the  refreshing  draught.  In  response  to 
the  appeal,  "  Be  ready,  we  must  die  !  "  the  church  gave  its 
pope,  the  school  its  teacher,  the  field  its  ploughman,  the 
mother  her  son.  The  idea  struck  its  roots  everywhere  with 
invincible  force — it  spread  over  all  alike — over  Balkan  and 
valley,  over  the  hut  of  the  poor  shepherd  and  the  cell  of  the 
monk.  Even  the  Chorbajis,  who  formed  a  close  caste 
opposed  to  all  national  development,  even  these  fell  under 
the  sway  of  the  idea  with  which  every  brain  was  on  fire. 
True,  they  took  a  comparatively  small  part  in  the  patriotic 
movement,  but  they  did  not  hinder  it,  for  they  did  not 
betray  it.  Treachery  and  baseness  were  rife  enough  later, 
but  after  the  catastrophe,  as  always  happens  in  such  cases. 


202  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

In  vain  would  certain  writers,  blinded  by  party  spirit,  seek 
to  claim  a  monopoly  of  patriotic  ardour  only  for  the  sheep- 
skin clad  and  shod  peasant,  in  defiance  of  historical  truth. 
No,  the  revolutionary  spirit,  like  a  flaming  seraph,  spread 
its  wings  over  peasant  and  university  student — kalpak  and 
fez,  priest's  cap  and  tall  hat  alike.  As  in  all  the  progressive 
struggles  of  Bulgaria,  science  and  the  cross  were  in  the  front 
rank.  The  martyrology  of  modem  Bulgarian  history  pro- 
claims this  truth.  True,  the  principal  contingent,  as  at  all 
times,  was  furnished  by  the  mass  of  the  people.  But  it  gave 
what  it  could — that  is,  numbers.  Thought  and  soul  could 
only  be  supplied  by  the  intelligence.  So  the  effervescence 
increased  daily  and  sprea4  over  everything.  Every  day  it 
assumed  greater  dimensions  and  acquired  fresh  strength, 
The  preparations  went  on  with  unremitting  ardour  ;  young 
and  old  displayed  equal  zeal.  The  peasants  left  their  fields 
untilled  to  cast  bullets,  the  citizens  neglected  their  business. 
Secret  posts  went  day  and  night  between  the  different  com- 
mittees and  the  central  committee  at  Panaghiourishte  ; 
young  lads  spent  the  day  in  drilling  with  their  guns,  under 
the  command  of  centurions  and  decurions  ;  the  women 
knitted  stockings,  made  cartridges,  and  baked  biscuit ;  the 
bootmakers  worked  only  at  knapsacks,  cartridge  cases,  mili- 
tary boots  and  such  revolutionary  gear  ;  even  the  village 
mayors,  vekils,  and  other  local  functionaries  eagerly  took 
part  in  the  preparations .  In  every  village  the  depot  of  arms, 
bullets  and  gunpowder  grew  larger  daily — the  gunpowder 
was  supplied  by  the  Turks  themselves — cherry-trees,  hol- 
lowed out,  planed,  and  fitted  with  iron  hoops,  formed  the 
artillery.  The  silken  standard  embroidered  with  lions, 
fancifully  braided  uniforms,  bright  ecclesiastical  vestments, 
and  crosses  were  the  adornments  of  the  impending  contest. 
The  influence  of  this  general  infatuation  was  felt  even  in  the 
children's  games :  tops,  hoops,  kites  were  left  for  the  more 
thrilling  joys  of  playing  at  soldiers  with  wooden  swords  and 
guns.  The  old  people,  amazed,  said  it  was  a  visitation  of 
God.  In  truth,  it  was  the  only  divine  manifestation  by 
which  people  were  persuaded  to  join  in  the  movement,  if  we 
except  the  miraculous  logogram,  "  Turkey  will  fall — 1876," 
which  spread  rapidly  abroad  and  convinced  the  most  scepti- 
cal. That  year,  spring  was  extraordinarily  early ;  the  whole 
of  Thrace  resembled  the  Garden  of  Paradise.  The  rose- 
gardens  were  one  mass  of  scented  bloom,  more  luxuriant 


A  NATION  INTOXICATED  203 

than  ever  before  or  since.  Field  and  vineyard  alike  pro- 
mised miraculous  harvests,  destined,  alas  !  to  rot  unreaped. 

As  for  the  inaction  of  the  Turkish  Government,  in  face  of 
such  open  and  unconcealed  agitation,  such  boisterous  pre- 
parations for  the  revolt,  it  is  to  be  explained  only  by  their 
blindness  and  utter  contempt  of  the  despised  raya. 
"  They're  merely  hares  at  play,"  said  the  complacent 
Effendis.  "  They're  only  the  Hurrahers  .  .  .  ,"  *  said 
the  haughty  rulers,  smiling  grimly  and  contemptuously. 
There  are  words  which  mark  an  epoch.  The  "  Hurrahers  " 
were  the  expression  of  the  awakening  of  the  nation  when  it 
emerged  victorious  from  the  thirty  years'  struggle  for  its 
ecclesiastical  autonomy.  But  the  hurrahers  who  saluted 
with  their  cheers  the  establishment  of  the  Bulgarian  Exar- 
chate in  1870  had  in  1876  become  revolutionaries,  and  pre- 
pared bullets  and  cannons  to  welcome  Bulgarian  liberty. 

The  Turks,  however,  could  not  discern  the  change :  they 
were  unable  to  march  with  the  times  or  to  see  the  progress 
in  the  ideas  of  the  people.  Indeed,  if  they  had  understood, 
it  was  now  too  late — their  dungeons  were  not  vast  enough, 
their  fetters  too  short,  to  curb  the  gigantic  idea,  the  invisible 
*'  King  Marko  "  |  lurking  in  the  mountains. 

Posterity  will  be  astonished — nay,  the  very  contempo- 
raries of  the  age,  with  a  whole  series  of  historical  examples 
before  them,  stand  aghast  before  this  moral  intoxication, 
this  sublime  infatuation  of  a  people  preparing  to  contend 
with  a  mighty  empire  still  great  in  its  miUtary  resources — 
preparing  with  the  hope,  too,  of  victory,  and  with  such 
means,  ineffectual  even  to  a  point  of  ridicule,  ready  to  take 
the  field  in  the  very  "  jaws  of  hell,"  as  Marko  Ivanoff  had 
said  not  long  before,  without  seeking  for  any  ally  save  its 
own  enthusiasm — a  will-o'-the-wisp,  which  flames  and  dies 
out,  a  phantom,  an  illusion.  History  has  but  rarely  fur- 
nished an  example  of  such  self-confidence — verging  on  mad- 
ness. The  Bulgarian  national  spirit  has  never  risen  to  s^  h 
heights,  and  may  never  again  repch  them. 

Especial  attention  has  been  devoted  to  this  prelude  of  the 
struggle,  for  it  alone  is  striking,  and  may  be  taken  as  the 

*  An  allusion  to  the  boisterous  crowds  whose  loud  acclamations 
heralded  the  establishment  of  the  Exarchate  and  the  liberation  of 
the  Bulgarian  Church  from  Greek  domination  in  1870.  The  Turkish 
expression  is  "  Dajiveijilerdendir "  from  "  Dajiv6i,"  the  Bulgarian 
"  Hurrah  !  " 

t  A  Bulgarian  legendary  *'  King  Arthur." 


204  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

example  of  a  great  idea  fostered  in  a  fertile  and  favourable 
soil.  The  struggle  itself  by  which  it  was  followed  was 
unworthy  of  the  very  name. 

Nor  will  it  be  described  in  these  pages.  The  story  is 
naturally  taken  up  with  a  single  episode  of  the  contest, 
which  follows  later,  and  which  gives  a  glimpse  of  the 
revolution,  that  utter  downfall  of  the  brightest  hopes. 

CHAPTER  VIII :  TROUBLE  UPON  TROUBLE 
Rada's  departure  for  Klissoura  had  been  quite  sudden  and 
unexpected.  The  day  after  her  meeting  with  Boicho,  she 
had  found  a  peasant  from  KUssoura  waiting  for  her :  he 
was  returning  in  his  cart  from  K.  and  had  been  requested 
by  Boicho,  whom  he  had  met  on  the  road,  to  drive  Rada  to 
Klissoura  :  so  she  set  out  with  him  in  haste.  It  was  not 
altogether  a  sorrow  for  her  to  leave  Bela  Cherkva,  for  she 
had  of  late  been  pursued  by  the  attentions  of  the  Russian 
student,  Kandoff,  who  had  also  joined  the  revolutionary 
committee.  All  her  attempts  to  escape  from  his  persistence 
had  been  unavailing.  While  she  still  mourned  for  Boicho 's 
loss  she  could  not  listen  to  Kandoff,  and  now  that  her 
lover  was  restored  to  her  these  attentions  were  doubly 
distasteful.  Moreover,  the  loss  of  her  only  friend,  Lalka, 
deprived  her  of  the  only  companion  she  had  in  the  town, 
where  she  had  suffered  so  much  already,.^. 

She  took  up  her  abode  with  Gospojsf  Mouratliska,  who 
had  not  long  before  settled  at  Klissoura.  The  good  woman 
had  readily  granted  Ognianoff's  request  to  take  in  the 
homeless  girl. 

The  windows  of  the  house  looked  northwards  upon  the 
whole  town  of  Klissoura,  the  valley,  and  the  Stara  Plajiina. 
The  majestic  peak  of  Ribaritsa  (known  hereabouts  as 
Vejen),  which  still  wore  its  winter  coronal  of  snow,  towered 
above  the  city  nestling  on  its  southern  slopes  :  here  and 
there  the  flocks  of  the  nomad  Wallachian  shepherds  grazed 
on  the  grassy  hillocks,  which  were  dotted  with  the  roughly 
enclosed  perSolds  :  to  the  east  the  town  was  surrounded  by 
high  jagged  rocks  and  crumbling  ravines — in  part  bare,  in 
part  covered  with  vineyards  and  rose-gardens.  A  narrow 
path  wound  its  way  to  the  summit  and  led  to  the  heights 
beyond,  kno%\Ti  as  Zli  Dol,  over  which  passed  the  road  to 
the  valley  of  the  Strema.    Klissoura  was  surrounded  by 


TROUBLE  UPON  TROUBLE       205 

hills  on  the  other  two  sides  also  :  it  nestled  in  a  deep  valley, 
covered  with  verdure  and  fruit-trees  and  rose-gardens 
which  filled  the  air  with  their  perfume.  In  winter  it  was 
lonely  and  mournful,  but  now  it  was  a  dehghtf ul  spot,  shady, 
cool,  and  fragrant. 

KandofE  reached  KKssoura  the  day  after  Rada,  and 
proceeded  to  the  house  of  a  relative,  on  a  visit — a  specious 
pretence  for  being  near  Rada. 

The  next  day  he  called  on  Rada.  His  visit  overwhelmed 
her  with  confusion,  which  was  heightened  by  rumours  of 
the  impending  outbreak  of  the  revolt  at  Koprivshtitsa  and 
her  ignorance  of  Boicho's  whereabouts.  In  her  affliction 
Kandoff's  coming  was  most  ill-timed. 

*'  Why,  Gospodin  Kandoff,  how  is  it  you're  here  ?  What's 
the  matter  ?  "  she  asked  uneasily. 

"  They  talk  of  rebellion,"  said  Kandoff  dryly. 

"  Whatever's  going  to  happen  ?  My  God  !  and  Boicho 
isn't  here.     Nothing's  been  heard  of  him." 

KandofE  looked  listlessly  out  of  the  window  towards  the 
Ribaritsa. 

"  And  what  do  you  think,  Gospodin  Kandoff  ?  "  asked 
Rada  impatiently. 

"  What,  I  ?  " 

"  Yes  !  " 

"  About  the  rebellion  ?  " 

"  Yes,  about  the  rebellion." 

He  answered  carelessly,  without  even  turning  towards  her: 

"  The  rebellion,  the  rebellion  ?  Oh,  they'll  fight,  guns 
will  be  fired,  people  will  be  killed,  all  for  the  liberation  of 
Bulgaria." 

"  And  how  about  Klissoura  ?  " 

''  I  suppose  there  will  be  fighting  here  too  ;  it  doesn't 
matter.'* 

"  What  do  you  mean,  it  doesn't  matter  ?     And  you  ?  " 

"  Oh,  it  doesn't  matter  about  me." 

Kandoff  answered  with  the  same  indifference  as  if  he 
was  describing  the  customs  of  the  people  of  New  Zealand. 
But  black  despair  was  hidden  under  this  apparently  listless 
manner,  this  cold  indifference  to  the  events  which  would 
decide  the  fate  of  Bulgaria.  However,  neither  he  nor  Rada 
felt  this. 

"  And  what  will  you  do  when  the  insurrection  breaks 
out  ?  "  asked  Rada. 


206  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  I'll  do  whatever  is  necessary." 

''  What  do  you  mean  ?     Won't  you  fight  ?  " 

"  There's  only  one  thing  for  me  to  do,  Rada,  and  that's 
to  die,"  answered  Kandoff  gloomily. 

Just  then  there  was  a  low  knock  at  the  door,  repeated 
thrice. 

"  Boicho  !  "  cried  Rada,  as  she  ran  to  open. 

Ognianoff  entered,  disguised  as  a  peasant,  dusty  and 
footsore.  He  was  on  his  way  back  from  Panaghiourishte. 
He  had  been  present  at  the  general  meeting  at  Mechka, 
where  the  first  of  May  had  been  decided  upon  for  the  out- 
break of  the  revolution.  He  was  now  hurrying  to  Bela 
Cherkva  to  take  the  last  measures  necessary  for  the  pre- 
parations during  the  few  days  which  still  remained,  and  to 
raise  the  standard  of  revolt  at  Bela  Cherkva  on  the  ap- 
pointed day.  He  was  passing  through  Klissoura  to  take 
a  last  farewell  of  Rada.  But  just  as  he  reached  the  house  at 
the  outskirts  of  the  town,  which  served  as  a  refuge  for  the 
apostles,  he  found  a  letter  from  Bela  Cherkva  :  he  hurried 
to  Rada  before  seeing  any  one  else. 

He  stood  still,  and  threw  a  cold  piercing  glance  at 
Kandoff,  who  stood  quietly  at  the  window. 

Rada  murmured  a  few  words  expressive  of  her  joy  at  his 
arrival,  but  when  she  saw  Ognianoff's  altered  countenance, 
she  stood  as  if  transfixed. 

"  I  must  apologise  for  disturbing  your  conversation  at 
this  early  hour,"  said  Ognianoff,  deadly  pale,  with  a  bitter 
smile. 

He  scarcely  looked  at  Rada. 

"  Boicho,  what  is  it  ?  "  she  asked,  in  a  quivering  voice, 
advancing  towards  him. 

"  Come,  come,  miss,  we've  had  enough  of  pretence  :  this 
is  shameful,"  said  Ognianoff  coldly. 

She  rushed  towards  him  to  embrace  him.  He  turned 
away. 

"  You  must  really  spare  me  these  tokens  of  tenderness," 
and  turning  to  Kandoff,  he  said  in  tones  that  quivered  with 
emotion  : 

*'  Gospodin  Kandoff,  I  cannot  find  words  to  thank  you 
for  your  courtesy  in  responding  to  an  invitation  to  come 
all  the  way  from  Bela  Cherkva." 

His  anger  would  not  allow  him  to  proceed. 

Kandoff  turned  from  the  window. 


TROUBLE  UPON  TROUBLE      207 

"  Livitation  ?     What  do  you  mean  ?  "  he  asked  coldly. 
"  What  do  you  mean,  Boicho  ?  "  repeated  Rada  in  amaze- 
ment.    "  Mr.  KandofE  has  come  to  stay  with  his  relations. 

He " 

She  broke  down  and  burst  into  tears. 
It  was  the  first  time  she  had  ever  been  obliged  to  tell  a 
falsehood,  unavoidably,  against  her  will.  During  their  short 
meeting  at  Bela  Cherkva  she  had  not  had  time  to  tell  him 
of  Kandoff's  strange  attentions,  which  she  did  not  venture 
to  repel.  And  now  Ognianoff  found  him  in  her  room,  and  at 
this  early  hour.  Evidently  something  must  have  reached 
his  ears  of  the  student's  visits,  and  some  accursed  chance 
had  contributed  to  fortify  his  doubts  before  she  had  time  to 
dispel  them. 

Rada  hoped  that  Kandoff  would  say  something  to  free  her 
from  her  difficulties,  but  he  remained  silent. 

"  Gospodin  KandofE,  can't  you  tell  me  something  that 
will  amuse  me  ?  "  asked  Ognianoff  spitefully,  with  a  con- 
temptuous glance  at  his  rival. 

"  I've  nothing  to  say — I'm  listening  to  you,"  answered 
the  student  coldly. 

"  Oh  !  this  is  disgraceful !  "  cried  Ognianoff,  eyeing  both 
of  them. 

Kandoff  grew  still  paler  than  before.     His  wounded  pride 
pierced  through  his  gloomy  apathy. 
"  Ognianoff  !  "  he  cried  fiercely. 

"  Shout  a  little  louder — try  and  frighten  me  !  "  answered 
Boicho  in  the  same  tone.     He  was  trembling  with  rage. 

Rada  forced  herself  between  them  in  terror,  lest  he  should 
commit  some  rash  act ;  she  knew  his  impetuous  character. 
''  My  God  !     Boicho,  what  are  you  about  ?     Wait  till  I 
explain  everything,"  she  cried  in  tears. 
Ognianoff  cast  a  withering  glance  at  her. 
"  It's  not  worth  while,  Rada  ;  don't  stoop  to  shed  tears, 
crocodile's  tears,   that  you're  always  so  ready  with.     I 
thought,  poor  fool,  that  you  were  innocence  itself.     I've 
wasted  so  much  love  on  you — I've  thrown  my  heart  into  the 
street.     What  bhndness  !  " 

"  Boicho  !  "  cried  Rada,  sobbing  in  despair. 
"  That  will  do — tiiere's  nothing  more  between  us  hence- 
forth.    The  mask  has  fallen.     What  infatuation  !     To  think 
you  could  love  a  vagabond  like  me,  with  only  torture  and 
the  gallows  to  look  forward  to,  when  there  are  chivalrous 


208  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

lovers  waiting  for  you,  with  sounding  phrases,  deep  learning, 
and  loyal  sentiments  !  My  God  !  what  a  base  world 
this  is  !  " 

He  turned  to  the  door. 

"  Ognianoff,  take  back  the  words  you've  said  !  "  cried 
Kandoff,  following  him. 

Ognianoff  stopped. 

"  Take  them  back  ?  I  repeat  them — ^it's  base  and  dis- 
graceful !  It's  a  foul  abuse  of  friendly  confidence.  Do  you 
deny  the  evidence  of  my  own  eyes  ?  "  he  cried,  with  a  glance 
of  scorn  and  hatred. 

"  Take  back  your  words,  or  death  !  "  roared  the  student, 
boiling  over  with  passion. 

*'  Death  ?  that  can  only  frighten  revolutionaries  who  wish 
to  save  Bulgaria  from  behind  a  woman's  petticoats  !  " 

Kandoff  rushed  at  OgnianofiE  and  tried  to  strike  him  on 
the  head.  All  his  long  pent-up  sufferings  and  tortures 
gushed  forth  in  a  flow  of  rage  against  the  man  who  had 
indirectly  been  the  cause  of  them. 

Ognianoff  was  a  powerful  man.  He  flung  Kandoff  back 
against  the  wall,  and  took  two  revolvers  from  his  belt. 

"  I  won't  fight  like  a  street-porter — take  this  pistol,"  and 
Ognianoff  handed  him  the  weapon. 

Rada,  in  a  frenzy  of  fear  and  despair,  opened  the  window 
that  looked  on  to  the  street,  and  screamed  aloud  in  the 
hope  of  attracting  the  attention  of  the  passers-by. 

At  that  moment  the  sound  of  the  church  bells  burst  out, 
loud  and  ominous.  Their  echoing  ring  pierced  the  air. 
Ognianoff  stood  motionless,  as  he  held  the  pistol  towards 
his  opponent.  Heavy  footsteps  were  heard  outside,  and 
the  door  was  thrown  open.  A  number  of  the  townspeople 
burst  into  the  room,  armed  to  the  teeth. 

"  The  Revolution's  begun  !  Long  live  Bulgaria  !  "  they 
cried. 

"  Where  are  the  people  to  meet  ?  "  asked  Ognianoff,  with 
emotion. 

"  Outside  the  to^n,  on  the  Zli  Dol,  near  the  monastery. 
Make  haste."  And  the  insurgents  hurried  out  again,  with  a 
cry  of  "  Long  live  Bulgaria  !"  and  began  the  song  "On  to 
the  struggle  !  " 

The  bells  rang  out  wildly. 

Ognianoff  turned  to  Kandoff. 

"  I'm  busy  just  now.     If  I  come  out  of  this  alive  I'll  give 


THE  REBELLION  209 

you  your  satisfaction.  For  the  present  you  can  keep  the 
young  lady  company  to  prevent  her  being  frightened." 

He  rushed  out. 

Rada,  quite  overcome  by  this  fresh  shock,  fell  fainting  on 
the  divan.  Gospoja  Mouratliksa,  whom  her  screams  had 
brought  to  the  room,  was  busy  trying  to  restore  her  to 
consciousness. 

Kandoff  listened  to  the  bells  like  a  man  in  a  dream  ;  at 
last  he  bent  his  eyes  to  the  ground,  and  saw  a  crumpled 
letter,  which  had  fallen  from  Ognianoff's  hand.  He  picked 
it  up  and  read  it.  It  was  an  anonymous  letter,  dra\;vTi  up  in 
venomous  terms,  and  bidding  Boicho  be  on  his  guard  against 
Kandoff,  who  had  never  ceased  his  attentions  to  Rada, 
which  it  hinted  were  favourably  received,  and  who  had  now 
followed  her  at  her  own  request  to  Klissoura. 

Kandoff  tore  up  the  base  calumny  and  spat  upon  it, 
after  which  he  went  out. 


CHAPTER  IX  :    THE  REBELLION 

It  was  now  five  days  since  the  rebellion  had  broken  out  at 
Klissoura. 

Every  other  employment  had  ceased ;  every  other 
interest  was  forgotten ;  unusual  excitement  was  depicted  on 
every  face.  The  whole  town  was  in  a  state  of  frenzy  and 
expectation,  and  bristled  with  arms  ;  the  very  air  in  the 
streets  appeared  oppressive.  During  those  five  days  the 
people  of  Klissoura  seemed  to  have  gone  through  five 
centuries  of  fear,  hope,  ecstasy,  and  despair.  All  that  they 
saw,  and  did,  which  before  had  seemed  so  far  away  in  the 
future,  now  appeared  as  an  evil  dream,  a  gloomy  fancy  of 
some  disordered  mind. 

On  the  20th  of  April,  the  Klissoura  delegate  at  the 
Greneral  Assembly  at  Mechka  had  returned  from  Kopriv- 
shtitsa — which  had  revolted  on  that  day — embraced  his 
family  and  relations,  and  informed  them  that  the  hour  for 
the  rebellion  had  struck.  Soon  the  chief  confederates 
assembled  in  the  school,  and  after  singing  the  song,  "  On  to 
the  struggle,  the  enemy  draws  near,"  Karajoff  delivered 
an  impassioned  harangue,  and  Klissoura,  amid  shouts  of 
enthusiasm  and  the  ringing  of  the  church  bells,  declared 
itself  in  a  state  of  rebellion.  Letters  were  at  once  sent  to 
the  committees  of  the  other  Balkan  towns,  enjoining  them 


210  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

to  support  the  movement  begun  at  Klissoura  and  Kopriv- 
shtitsa,  by  following  their  example  :  decurions  and  officers 
were  appointed,  weapons  were  hurriedly  fetched  from  houses, 
the  zapties  were  fired  at  and  pursued,  but  without  success  ; 
they  managed  to  reach  the  Balkan.  All  the  men  were 
summoned  to  the  heights  above  the  town.  On  each  of 
these  strategical  points  was  placed  a  guard  of  from  fifteen 
to  twenty  men  to  preserve  the  city  from  a  surprise  ;  trenches 
were  dug  for  their  protection.  Almost  all  the  men  in  the 
town  between  the  ages  of  eighteen  and  fifty  were  drafted 
into  these  garrisons.  No  one  was  now  allowed  to  enter  or 
leave  the  town  ;  food  and  other  necessaries  were  brought  to 
each  man  at  his  post  by  the  remaining  members  of  his 
family.  The  rebels  were  armed  with  such  weapons  as  each 
could  procure  for  himseK. 

On  the  next  day,  a  solemn  service  was  held  in  church  at 
which  the  women  and  priests  (for  the  men  were  at  the  forti- 
fications) prayed  on  their  knees  for  the  deliverance  of 
Bulgaria  from  bondage  ;  the  principal  townspeople,  who 
had  taken  up  the  movement  with  enthusiasm,  elected  a 
council  of  war,  as  well  as  a  commander-in-chief  of  the 
rebels.  At  noon  the  lion-embroidered  standard  was  planted 
with  much  solemnity  on  the  summit  of  Zli  Dol,  and  a 
special  guard  appointed  to  defend  it.  The  rest  of  the  day 
was  spent  in  naming  the  commandants  of  the  different  forti- 
fied positions,  excavating  a  powder-store,  and  settling  other 
matters  important  for  the  arming  of  the  insurgents  and  the 
defence  of  the  town.  But  the  news  they  were  able  to 
obtain  from  the  outer  world  was  not  reassuring  :  no  other 
town  had  risen,  except  in  the  Sredna  Gora.  Night  found 
the  insurgents  somewhat  despondent. 

On  the  22nd  of  April,  the  insurgents  killed  two  Turks — 
travellers.  Blood  had  now  been  shed,  and  the  die  was  de- 
finitely cast.  But  in  vain  did  they  seek  to  descry  from  the 
heights  smoke  rising  from  the  burning  Turkish  villages  in 
the  valley  of  the  Strema,  which  was  to  be  the  signal  that 
Kableshkoff  had  induced  the  Bulgarian  villages  in  that 
neighbourhood  to  rise.  They  began  to  look  for  some  place 
of  shelter  and  refuge  in  the  mountains  for  their  famihes, 
and  sent  to  Koprivshtitsa  for  assistance. 

The  rebels  were  gradually  losing  courage.  St.  George's 
Day  (April  23)  did  not  inspire  them  with  gladness,  and  the 
bells  which  summoned  the  pious  to  prayer  sounded  dull 


THE  REBELLION  211 

and  mournful,  more  like  a  passing  bell.  But  suddenly  the 
chimes  became  louder  and  triumphant ;  faces  beamed  with 
joy  ;  Voloff  had  arrived  from  Koprivshtitsa  with  reinforce- 
ments consisting  of  fifty  men,  mostly  peasants  from  villages 
in  the  Sredna  Gora.  He  marched  straight  to  the  church, 
where  a  "  Te  Deum  "  service  was  solemnly  celebrated.  The 
bells  rang  out  still  more  joyously.  After  the  service,  Voloff 
and  his  little  band,  accompanied  by  the  priests  chanting 
hymns,  proceeded  to  the  heights.  Tbere  several  Turks  and 
gipsies,  who  had  been  captured,  were  sentenced  to  death 
as  spies.  He  executed  one  of  them  himself,  with  his 
sword  ;  when  all  was  over,  Voloff  returned  alone  to  Kopriv- 
shtitsa. The  rest  of  the  time  was  taken  up  in  completing 
the  trenches. 

On  the  next  day,  discouragement  again  set  in.  In  vain 
the  outposts  strained  their  eyes  in  watching  for  the  eagerly 
desired  fires  in  the  valley.  Kableshkoff's  expedition  had 
returned  to  Koprivshtitsa  unsuccessful.  The  few  travellers 
who  managed  to  reach  Klissoura  during  the  first  few  days 
of  the  insurrection  declared  that  in  the  valley  everything 
was  peaceful,  and  that  there  was  no  sign  whatever  of  an 
impending  outbreak.  Since  the  previous  day  there  had 
been  no  more  travellers.  In  place  of  these,  groups  of 
Turks  could  be  observed  on  horseback  in  the  distance  ; 
they  fired,  and  again  retreated.  The  discouragement  in- 
creased. The  promises  of  the  most  sanguine  (whose 
number  decreased  every  day),  news  of  fictitious  successes, 
severe  reprimands,  all  were  alike  ineffectual  to  restore  the 
general  confidence. 

This  lamentable  condition  of  the  defenders  of  Klissoura 
became  still  further  intensified  on  the  25th  of  April.  They 
saw  that  they  were  left  to  themselves — that  is,  to  unavoid- 
able destruction.  It  was  evident.  The  handful  of  defenders 
which  the  town  could  supply,  at  most  about  250  men, 
was  not  sufficient  to  repel  the  frightful  horde  of  bashi- 
bozouks  who  would  fall  upon  them  from  east  and  west. 
How  could  any  fresh  reinforcement  be  hoped  for  from 
Koprivshtitsa,  which  was  itself  in  need  of  aid  ?  Discourage- 
ment and  despair  gained  ground  every  moment.  DiscipHne 
was  growing  weak  ;  complaints,  mumurings,  regrets,  the 
forerunners  of  demoralisation,  replaced  the  enthusiasm  of 
the  first  days  of  the  revolt.  The  enemy  had  not  yet  been 
seen,  but  all  felt  that  he  was  near,  terrible,  inevitable.    The 


212  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

revolutionists  now  resembled  an  army  which  has  been 
defeated  without  a  battle,  a  trembling  herd  of  deer,  crouch- 
ing in  some  comer  from  which  there  is  no  escape,  and 
hearing  the  roar  of  the  advancing  enemy.  A  few  preserved 
their  presence  of  mind,  still  fewer  clung  bravely  to  the  last 
hope  of  success.  To  their  moral  sufferings  were  added 
physical  hardships  ;  icy  winds  blew  down  at  night  from  the 
Balkan,  and  numbed  the  garrisons  in  their  damp  trenches, 
where  they  were  obliged  to  spend  the  night  without  even 
the  comfort  of  a  fire.  These  poor  shopkeepers  and  cloth - 
spinners,  who  had  lived  all  their  lives  by  peaceful  toil, 
suddenly  turned  into  rebels  and  bristling  mth  arms,  were 
really  to  be  pitied.  Confused  grumbHngs  and  sighs  were 
to  be  heard  at  night  in  the  trenches,  where  everybody 
trembled  with  cold  and  dismay. 

"  God  bless  the  kingdom,  dear !  "  had  been  the  greeting  of 
the  old  women  to  one  another,  when  they  met  in  the  streets. 

*'  Ah  !  we're  ruined,  my  lad  !  We're  done  f  or  !  "  the 
most  fervent  of  the  confederates  now  groaned. 

Despair  increased  every  moment.  It  was  clearly  stamped 
on  each  haggard  face.  However,  there  was  no  talk  of 
retreat  or  flight,  but  the  thought  of  it  was  in  every  heart. 

Such  was  the  mental  condition  of  the  garrisons  at  each 
of  the  trenches.  Such  or  almost  such  it  was  at  Zli  Dol, 
the  principal  point  of  the  defence. 

CHAPTER  X :  THE  BATTERY  OF  ZLI  DOL 

The  peak  of  Zli  Dol,  at  the  north-east  end  of  the  town, 
was  a  valuable  strategical  position.  It  commanded  the 
surrounding  valleys,  and  was  the  key  to  the  pass  which  led 
from  Klissoura  to  the  valley  of  the  Strema.  From  there 
one  saw  an  apparently  endless  series  of  bare  undulating 
rocks  stretching  to  the  east,  along  which  the  outposts  were 
stationed. 

The  garrison  of  Zli  Dol  was  the  most  numerous  of  all. 
It  had  been  reinforced  by  Voloff's  Sredna  Gora  peasants — 
the  remnants  of  bands  which  had  been  repulsed — and  was 
preparing  to  greet  with  a  shower  of  bullets  the  first  onslaught 
of  the  enemy. 

The  garrison  was  unusually  alert  to-day.  A  certain  bold- 
ness was  noticeable  on  the  faces  of  the  men.  Yet  they 
were  not  turned  in  the  direction  from  whence  the  enemy 


THE  BATTERY  OF  ZLI  DOL  213 

might  be  expected,  but  towards  the  valley  in  which  Klissoura 
lay  nestling.  Every  one  was  gazing  expectantly  along  the 
path  which  led  up  to  the  ravine.  An  insurgent  of  gigantic 
stature  was  carrying  a  long,  white,  cylindrical  article  of  some 
sort  on  his  shoulder.  Behind  him  a  woman,  stout  and 
plump,  in  peasant  dress,  was  toiling  under  the  weight  of  a 
load  which  seemed  very  heavy. 

/  It  was  this  pair  that  had  attracted  everybody's  attention, 
/and  there  were  some  grounds  for  this  excitement :  they  were 
( carrying  the  artillery  up  to  Zli  Dol. 

V  It  consisted  of  nothing  more  than  a  cherry-tree  cannon, 
which  the  giant  was  carrying  on  his  shoulder. 

The  ammunition — consisting  of  scraps  of  iron,  bullets, 
nails,  &c. — ^were  on  the  woman's  back. 

The  eyes  of  the  rebels  flashed  with  satisfaction  :  a  general 
enthusiasm  prevailed  on  Zli  Dol. 

At  last  the  giant  reached  the  summit,  bathed  in  perspira- 
tion, which  streamed  from  his  forehead  and  neck. 

"  God  bless  its  soul !  "  he  exclaimed,  as  he  set  the  fatal 
weapon  on  the  ground. 

The  garrison  flocked  round  with  curiosity  to  examine  the 
cannon.  There  were  twenty  more  like  it,  destined  for  the 
other  forts,  but  they  were  still  in  the  town.  This  had  been 
brought  up  to  test  its  strength,  its  report,  and  the  distance 
it  would  carry.  It  was  taken  up  to  the  very  summit,  whence 
it  could  command  the  pass  and  the  bare  peaks.  It  was 
filled  with  powder,  firmly  fastened  into  the  ground  by 
means  of  stakes,  and  a  trench  was  dug  behind  it  to  protect 
the  gunners. 

The  insurgents  burned  with  impatience  to  hear  the  voice 
of  the  first  Bulgarian  cannon.  All  were  inspired  with 
childish  glee  and  unspeakable  enthusiasm.  Some  even 
wept. 

"  Listen  when  the  Lion  of  the  Balkan  roars,  boys.  His 
voice  will  shake  the  Sultan's  throne,  and  proclaim  to  the 
whole  world  that  the  Stara  Planina  is  free  !  "  cried  the 
commandant  of  the  garrison  of  Zli  Dol. 

"  The  sound  will  stir  up  our  other  brothers  in  the  valley 
of  the  Strema — it'U  remind  them  of  their  obhgations — they'll 
rush  to  arms  and  fall  upon  the  common  enemy  !  "  said 
another. 

"  We  command  the  whole  valley  from  here  ;  only  let  the 
tyrants  show  themselves,  we'll  blow  them  to  pieces." 


214.  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  We  won't  leave  one  of  them  alive,  God  bless  their 
souls  !  "  said  Ivan  Kill-the-Bear,  who  was  still  fanning  his 
heated  face  with  his  cap. 

^  For  the  giant  who  had  carried  up  the  cannon  was  our  old 
acquaintance  Kill-the-Bear ;  his  wife  had  brought  up  the 
rest.  They  had  settled  at  Klissoura  a  month  before,  having 
found  work  there,  and  had  joined  in  the  revolt. 

The  gunner,  with  his  lintstock  in  his  hand,  was  preparing 
to  set  to  work. 

"  Wait  a  bit,  Delcho,  we  mustn't  frighten  the  women  and 
children,  we  ought  to  give  notice  first,"  said  Niagoul,  the 
cloth-worker. 

"  Quite  right,"  said  others,  "  let's  send  some  one  to  cry 
the  news  in  the  town — there  may  be  women  near  their 
confinement." 

*'  Why  send  to  the  town  ;  we  should  only  lose  time  ? 
Better  get  some  one  to  cry  from  here ;  who's  got  the  loudest 
voice  ?  " 

"  Kill-the-Bear,  Kill-the-Bear,"  cried  those  who  knew  the 
wonderful  strength  of  his  lungs. 

Kill-the-Bear  readily  undertook  the  fresh  task.  He 
asked  what  he  was  to  say,  committed  it  carefully  to  memory, 
and  went  half-way  down  the  hill  to  be  a  little  nearer  to  the 
town.  He  drew  himself  up  to  his  full  height,  swelled  out 
his  chest,  raised  his  head,  and  cried  in  stentorian  tones  : 

*'  Now  then,  you  people  !  Take  notice  that  we're  going 
to  fire  the  Bulgarian  cannon,  to  try  it,  God  bless  its  soul  ! 
Women  and  children  needn't  be  frightened.  There  are  no 
Turks  yet  to  be  seen,  God  bless  their  souls  !  " 

He  repeated  this  announcement  several  times,  with  a 
minute's  pause  between  each.  The  Balkan  echoes  replied 
to  his  powerful  voice.  It  penetrated  to  every  house  in  the 
town.  After  this  reassuring  warning,  they  set  to  work. 
Delcho  made  a  fire,  Hghted  a  truss  of  straw  at  it,  fastened  it 
to  his  long  pole,  and  approached  it  to  the  touch-hole.  The 
straw  burned  and  crackled  ;  clouds  of  grey  smoke  rose  in 
the  air  ;  in  their  feverish  expectation  of  the  report,  the  in- 
surgents drew  back  to  some  distance  ;  others  threw  them- 
selves down  in  the  trenches  so  as  not  to  see  anything  ;  some 
even^^stopped  their  ears  with  their  fingers  and  waited. 
Several  seconds  passed,  during  which  the  strain  on  their 
nerves  was  frightful,  inexpressible.  The  grey  smoke  con- 
tinued to  rise  from  the  straw,  which  seemed  powerless  to 


DISCOURAGEMENT  IN  THE  FORT         215 

ignite  the  gunpowder.  Hearts  were  beating  furiously.  The 
torture  became  insupportable.  At  last  a  white  flame 
appeared  at  the  touch-hole,  and  suddenly  the  cannon 
emitted  a  faint,  angry,  dull  sound,  like  the  crack  of  a  board 
that  is  being  split,  or  a  sharp  cough,  and  the  whole  battery 
was  covered  with  a  cloud  of  smoke. 

The  cannon  had  cracked,  and  the  charge  was  carried  only 
a  few  paces  from  the  mouth.  Many  of  the  insurgents  did 
not  even  hear  the  report. 

One  of  them  said,  in  jest  or  in  earnest,  that  he  had  taken 
the  sound  for  Ivan  Kill-the-Bear  coughing. 

This  unfortunate  result  brought  out  only  too  clearly  the 
shortcomings  of  the  artillery.  They  hastened  to  improve 
the  other  cannon,  by  binding  them  firmly  round  with  strong 
iron  hoops,  and  lining  some  of  them  inside  with  tin.  That 
day  two  guns  were  taken  up  to  each  fort ;  they  were  loaded 
to  the  muzzle,  and  firmly  fixed  in  the  ground.  Every  gun 
was  destined  to  serve  only  once,  and  in  a  particular  direc- 
tion. 

It  should  be  added  that  no  one  thought  of  giving  notice 
in  the  town  that  the  Bulgarian  cannon  had  gone  off.  So 
the  poor  old  women  waited  expectantly  till  the  evening, 
with  cotton- wool  in  their  ears,  for  the  explosion  which  was 
to  cleave  the  air  and  shatter  all  the  windows  in  the  toAvn. 


CHAPTER  XI :    DISCOURAGEMENT  IN  THE  FORT 

Next  morning,  as  Ognianoff  was  anxiously  scanning  the 
horizon  through  his  field-glass,  a  decurion  advanced 
towards  him. 

"  What  is  it,  Marcheff  ?  " 

"  Things  are  as  bad  as  bad  can  be,"  whispered  the  de- 
curion ;   "  demoralisation's  spreading  all  over  the  fort." 

Ognianoff  started. 

"  Whoever  discourages  the  others  will  be  punished  by 
death,"  he  said  fiercely.  "  Whom  have  you  noticed, 
Marcheff  ?  " 

The  decurion  mentioned  four  names. 

"  Call  them  up  at  once  !  " 

The  accused  appeared.  They  were  elderly  men — cloth - 
workers  or  tradespeople. 

Ognianoff  glanced  at  them  sternly,  and  asked  : 

"  So  it's  you,  is  it,  who're  discouraging  the  garrison  1  " 


216  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  We're  not  discouraging  anybody,"  answered  one  of 
them  sharply. 

*'  You  know  the  punishment  imposed  for  such  conduct 
at  critical  moments  like  these  ?  " 

They  did  not  answer.  But  their  silence  was  expressive 
of  obstinacy  rather  than  fear. 

Ognianoff  was  boiling  over  with  rage,  but  he  made  an 
effort  to  restrain  himseff,  and  said  quietly  : 

"  Go  back  to  your  posts,  men.  We've  begun  our 
revolution  and  it's  too  late  now  to  cry  off.  We've  to  face 
the  enemy  here  :  no  one  has  any  business  to  look  back 
towards  Khssoura.  You'll  preserve  your  families  and  your 
houses  much  better  by  stopping  here  than  by  going  back  to 
the  town.     Don't  place  me  in  a  difficult  position,  I  entreat 

you." 

The  insurgents  did  not  move. 

Ognianoff  looked  at  them  with  amazement.  This  was 
clearly  a  protest. 

"  Have  you  anything  else  to  say  ?  " 

The  insurgents  looked  at  one  another ;  at  last  one  of 
them  said  : 

"  We're  not  meant  for  this  kind  of  thing." 

"  I  never  had  a  gun  in  my  hand  before  in  my  life,"  said 
another. 

"  No  more  have  any  of  us,"  said  the  third. 

"  We  can't  shed  blood." 

"  You're  afraid,  are  you  ?  "  asked  Ognianoff,  thinking  to 
shame  them  with  this  question. 

"  Well,  it's  not  a  sin  if  we  are." 

"  Yes,  we  are  afraid,"  said  the  first,  angrily. 

"  We've  got  wives  and  children." 

"  You  don't  suppose  we've  picked  up  our  lives  in  the 
road,  do  you  ?  "  said  the  boldest  of  them. 

"  What  are  your  lives  and  your  families,  and  your  houses, 
compared  with  the  liberation  of  Bulgaria,  and  especially 
compared  with  the  honour  of  Bulgaria  ?  "  asked  Ognianoff 
in  a  voice  that  quivered  with  rage.  "  I  ask  you  again  : 
don't  show  yourselves  to  be  cowards,  and  force  me  to  take 
strong  measures  against  you  !  " 

"  We're  not  meant  for  guns  and  rebellions  !  " 

"  Well,  what  do  you  want  ?  " 

"  We  want  to  be  set  free,  to  go  home." 


DISCOURAGEMENT  IN  THE  FORT  217 

"  We've  never  fired  at  another  man  ;  it's  not  our  busi- 
ness." 

Ognianoff  saw  that  their  obstinacy  was  not  to  be  overcome 
by  soft  words.  He  was  bursting  with  rage,  but  managed  to 
keep  calm.  He  recognised  with  sorrow  that  only  deep  dis- 
couragement and  fear  could  embolden  these  cowards  to 
confess  aloud  to  their  commander  that  they  were  afraid 
without  blushing. 

From  this  to  open  panic  and  flight  there  was  only  one 
step.  He  resolved  to  be  pitiless.  The  infection  could  not 
be  allowed  to  spread  to  the  others.  Discipline  before 
everything. 

"  My  men,  will  you  return  to  your  duty  or  not  ?  "  he  asked 
resolutely. 

And  with  a  gloomy  frown  and  a  beating  heart  he  awaited 
their  reply. 

At  that  moment  shouts  were  suddenly  heard  behind  him. 
He  turned  round  and  saw,  in  the  plain  below,  Kill-the-Bear 
pursuing  a  gipsy.  The  other  insurgents  crowded  to  the 
edge  to  watch  the  race,  and  cheered  on  Kill-the-Bear,  who, 
in  spite  of  his  gigantic  strides,  could  not  succeed  in  reaching 
the  bare-footed  and  agile  gipsy.  Some  raised  their  guns  to 
aim  at  the  latter,  but  Ognianoff  ordered  them  to  desist. 
Clearly  the  fugitive  had  been  concealed  at  Klissoura  till 
then,  and  was  trying  to  escape  to  some  Turkish  village. 
The  gipsies,  who  had  managed  to  escape  during  the  first 
few  days,  had  been  the  first  to  give  notice  to  the  Turks  of 
the  revolt,  and  details  respecting  the  numbers,  &c.,  of  the 
garrison .  By  nature  and  interest  they  were  faithful  allies  to 
the  Turks,  and  such  they  showed  themselves  to  be  both  here 
and  elsewhere  in  similar  circumstances  Kill-the-Bear  con- 
tinued to  pursue  the  gipsy  with  enormous  strides,  but  the 
gipsy  maintained  his  lead,  and  the  two  were  getting  further 
and  further  away  from  the  fort.  The  gipsy  was  almost  out 
of  gunshot  range.  Suddenly  he  stopped  bewildered :  before 
him  appeared  two  insurgents  from  the  outposts,  and  he  found 
himself  between  two  fires.  At  that  moment  Kill-the-Bear 
reached  him,  made  one  bound  at  him,  and  the  two  rolled 
over  together  on  the  ground.  Shouts  of  satisfaction  were 
heard  from  the  fort.  Many  cried  : 
"  Bring  him  here— here  !  " 

Kill-the-Bear,  enraged  at  his  pursuit,  forced  the  gipsy  on 


218  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

before  him  with  a  torrent  of  imprecations,  which  were 
clearly  audible  at  the  fort. 

The  fugitive  was  placed  under  arrest. 

The  insurgents  crowded  round  him  with  faces  that  boded 
no  good.  Every  one  recognised  the  gipsy.  He  had  twice 
before  attempted  to  escape  from  Klissoura — the  first  time 
from  the  Konak  with  a  secret  message  for  the  village  of 
Rahmanlari,  given  him  by  a  Turk  kept  in  the  town,  but  had 
been  punished  only  by  a  closer  confinement.  Now  there 
could  be  no  question  of  pardon. 

The  commandant  of  the  fort  turned  to  the  decurion,  and 
they  consulted  for  some  time  in  whispers. 

"  Yes,  yes,"  finally  said  Ognianoff.  "  Any  mercy  or  in- 
dulgence would  now  only  be  injurious.  The  sight  of  death 
may  inspire  the  cowardly  with  a  little  boldness.  But  the 
Council  of  War  must  pronounce  its  verdict.  Marcheff ,  go  at 
once  to  Zli  Dol  and  report  what  has  happened.  My  own. 
opinion  is  that  the  penalty  should  be  death.     Gro  at  once.'* 

The  decurion  went  out. 

Ognianoff  turned  sternly  to  an  aged  insurgent : 

"  Father  Marin,  put  this  gipsy  under  arrest." 

He  then  addressed  two  younger  men  : 

"  My  lads,  take  these  gentry,  the  cowards,  to  that  side  of 
the  fort ;  take  away  their  guns,  and  keep  them  under  arrest 
until  further  orders." 

The  four  demoralised  insurgents  grew  pale,  but  offered 
no  opposition  and  proceeded  quietly  to  the  place  of  arrest. 

CHAPTER  XII :    A  BAPTISM 

Ognianoff  was  excitedly  pacing  up  and  down  the  edge  of 
the  fort :  his  gloomy  thoughts  were  reflected  in  his  face. 

He  turned  mechanically  to  look  at  a  group  of  insurgents 
who  were  zealously  digging  the  new  trench  ;  after  a  word  or 
two  of  encouragement,  he  mounted  the  rampart  again, 
scanned  the  eastern  horizon  and,  with  a  still  darker  ex- 
pression of  countenance,  returned  to  his  former  place. 

"  What  a  nation  !  what  a  nation  !  "  he  muttered. 

Marcheff  returned. 

"  The  sentence  is — death  !  "  he  cried,  panting. 

"  The  Council  of  War  has  decided,  has  it  ?  " 

"  Yes,  death  without  delay  !  "  said  Marcheff  aloud,  adding 
something  in  a  whisper. 


■4 

A  BAPTISM  219 

Ognianoff  made  an  imperceptible  sign  of  satisfaction. 

The  words  "  Death  without  delay  "  were  heard  all  over 
the  fort :  they  were  repeated  from  mouth  to  mouth,  and 
reached  to  the  corner  where  the  prisoners  stood  under  arrest. 

They  were  pale  before  ;  now  their  faces  became  as  white 
as  a  sheet. 

They  began  to  see  that  their  fate  was  sealed.  The 
Council  of  War  appeared  to  them  as  something  terrible, 
majestic,  unavoidable — hke  Fate  itself.  God  alone  stood 
above  it. 

An  insurgent  approached  Ognianoff : 

"  The  prisoners  are  begging  for  mercy." 

Ognianoff  replied  coldly  : 

"  The  sentence  has  been  pronounced  ;  it's  too  late  now." 
Then,  in  commanding  tones,  he  added  :  "  Braikoff,  take 
Niagoul,  and  Blagoi,  and  Iskroff,  and  march  the  four 
prisoners  to  the  valley  down  there,  to  undergo  their  penalty. 
The  judgment  of  the  court-martial  must  be  carried  out  to 
the  letter." 

Braikoff,  much  moved,  proceeded  to  carry  out  the  orders 
of  the  commandant  of  the  fort. 

Not  a  voice  was  raised  in  defence  of  the  condemned  :  no 
one  wished  to  appear  to  share  their  ideas.  Every  one  felt 
that  his  life  was  at  the  mercy  of  the  court-martial — ^the  only 
tribunal,  and  one  from  which  there  was  no  appeal. 

The  condemned  insurgents,  conducted  by  the  four  men 
told  off  for  the  duty,  passed  through  the  fort  and  down  the 
valley. 

"  Take  the  gipsy  down  there  as  well !  "  cried  Ognianoff. 

Then,  in  a  whisper,  he  gave  certain  instructions  to  the 
dscurion,  who  hastened  after  them. 

The  place  selected  was  a  moist,  green  meadow,  through 
which  flowed  a  little  brook.  It  was  surrounded  by  rocks. 
The  whole  garrison  flocked  to  the  heights  above  to  witness 
the  execution. 

To  the  left  of  the  brook  was  a  withered  oak  :  two  of  the 
insurgents  conducted  the  gipsy  to  the  tree,  and  bound  him 
to  it  with  his  red  waistband. 

Fear  had  rendered  the  wretched  man  speechless.  From 
his  clenched  lips  blood  was  flowing. 

Close  by  the  bank  stood  the  other  four  condemned  men, 
awaiting  their  turn.  Their  features  were  distorted  with 
terror. 


220  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

Marcheff  cried  : 

"  Bring  them  here,  too  !  " 

The  victims  looked  at  him  helplessly.  Three  of  them 
were  unable  to  move  :  the  guards  were  obliged  to  drag  them 
to  the  spot. 

Marcheff  placed  them  in  a  row  ten  paces  distant  from  the 
bound  gipsy,  evidently  that  they  might  witness  the  terrible 
spectacle  which  their  own  fate  would  shortly  supply  to  their 
comrades  flocking  together  on  the  heights  above. 

They  were  not  bound  ;  but  terror  had  paralysed  their 
forces,  and  not  one  of  them  even  thought  of  flight,  which 
would,  indeed,  have  been  impossible. 

A  minute's  dead  silence  followed. 

"  Advance  !  "  cried  Marcheff  to  the  six  armed  insurgents 
who  had  brought  the  prisoners. 

They  advanced  firmly. 

Marko  then  cried  in  loud  and  solemn  tones  : 

"  The  gipsy  Mehmed,  of  Ellissoura,  having  been  guilty  of 
three  attempts  at  escape  from  prison  with  the  treacherous 
design  of  betraying  the  Bulgarian  cause  to  the  Turks,  is 
condemned  to  death  by  the  supreme  tribunal  as  an  example 
to  all  other  traitors  !  "  Then,  turning  towards  the  other 
four  :    "  Men,  turn  towards  Mehmed  !  " 

They  did  as  they  were  ordered,  automatically. 

"  Give  each  of  them  a  gun  !  " 

The  insurgents,  much  excited,  handed  them  their  guns. 
The  condemned  men  took  them,  their  faces  stupefied  with 
terror. 

"  Now  fire  at  him  when  I  give  the  word  three.  One  ! — 
two  !— three  !  " 

A  report  was  heard  and  a  cloud  of  smoke  arose. 

The  gipsy  was  still  standing  upright  against  the  tree. 
Not  a  bullet  had  touched  him.  The  firing-party  had 
evidently  not  aimed  at  him.     But  he  was  as  pale  as  death. 

"  For  shame,  men  !     Try  again  !  " 

And  he  repeated  the  command.  The  guns  again  rang 
out.     This  time  the  gipsy  was  writhing  in  his  death  agony. 

Sounds  of  applause  were  heard  from  above. 

"  That  is  to  be  your  punishment,  men,  for  this  once. 
You've  had  your  baptism  of  blood.  You  have  to  thank  the 
indulgence  of  Ognianofl  and  the  court-martial." 

When  the  four  men  understood  that  they  were  saved, 
they  first  looked  piteously  round  them  like  men  awaking 


VALLEY  OF  THE  STREMA  IN  FLAMES       221 

from  some  terrible  dream.     A  faint  smile  of  pleasure  was 
only  just  visible  on  their  leaden  faces,  still  pale  with  terror. 
Fresh  sounds  of  applause  rose  from  the  fort. 

CHAPTER  XIII :    THE  VALLEY  OF  THE  STREMA 
IN  FLAMES 

"  Strange — strange,  it's  inexplicable  !  terrible  !  Nothing 
all  this  time  !  What  can  they  be  doing  ?  What's  Bela 
Cherkva  about  ?  They're  as  silent  as  the  dead  !  Silent  ! 
Oh  !  this  silence  is  terrible.  I  don't  dare  to  think  about  it ! 
Have  they  folded  their  arms  and  thought  prudence  best,  after 
all  ?  Yet  there's  Sokoloff  there,  and  Popoff ,  and  Bezporteff 
— ^all  my  boys  !  All  eager  and  experienced  lads.  What  can 
they  be  waiting  for  ?  Are  they  waiting  for  me  ?  Yes,  but 
if  I  can't  come — ^if  I'm  knocked  on  the  head — won't  they  do 
anything  at  all  ?  or  are  they  deaf  and  blind  ?  Can't  they 
see  ?  Klissoura  in  open  revolt,  Koprivshtitsa  in  revolt, 
Panaghiourishte  in  revolt,  the  whole  Sredna  Gora  in  flames  ! 
Only  the  valley  of  the  Strema  still  slumbering !  Can  any- 
thing have  happened  ?  is  there  any  special  impediment  ? 
But  it's  not  possible  :  if  Bela  Cherkva  can't  rise  itself,  at 
least  it  might  send  us  ten  or  a  dozen  bold  lads  to  encourage 
the  others.  And  yet,  not  a  sign  ;  and  disaffection  spreading 
among  us  every  day.  And  after  such  thorough  prepara- 
tions, too  !  Can  this  be  going  on  in  other  places  also  ?  If 
so,  God  have  mercy  upon  Bulgaria — only  utter  ruin  awaits 
her  !  " 

Filled  with  these  dark  thoughts,  Ognianoff,  disguised  as 
a  Turk,  was  cautiously  making  his  way  down  the  Stara 
Reka  to  the  valley  of  the  Strema. 

On  the  20th  of  April,  as  we  have  already  seen,  he  had 
arrived  at  Klissoura,  on  his  way  to  Bela  Cherkva,  with  the 
intention  of  raising  the  insurrection  there  on  the  day  ap- 
pointed for  the  general  rising.  However,  matters  had  come 
to  a  head  the  very  day  of  his  arrival  at  Klissoura.  He  had 
been  overwhelmed  by  the  outburst  of  the  revolt  at  a  moment 
of  terrible  mental  agitation,  and  had  flung  himself  blindly 
into  the  movement,  trying  to  forget  his  pangs  in  the  excite- 
ment of  the  struggle,  and  perhaps  to  meet  death  fighting  for 
the  liberty  of  his  country.  But  the  enemy  gave  no  sign  of 
life.  All  communications  between  Klissoura  and  the  valley 
were  cut  off.     Ognianoff  had  during  five  days  and  nights 


222  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

worked  with  untiring  activity  at  the  organisation  of  the 
defences,  burning  with  impatience  to  hear  that  Bela 
Cherkva  had  risen.  But  Bela  Cherkva  was  quite  peaceful, 
like  the  other  towns  and  villages  in  the  valley.  Ognianoff, 
with  a  bursting  heart,  cursed  the  chance  which  had  brought 
him  to  Klissoura.  He  saw  the  fearful  effect  produced  on 
the  insurgents  by  this  ominous  silence,  which  paralysed  the 
whole  movement.  In  vain  he  sought  to  encourage  his 
comrades  with  solemn  asseverations  that  Bela  Cherkva 
would  certainly  rise,  and  that  the  other  towns  would 
follow  its  example.  Finally  he  began  to  despair  himself, 
and  to  foresee  with  terror  the  collapse  of  Klissoura  and 
of  the  whole  revolt.  He  then  resolved  upon  a  bold, 
almost  reckless  undertaking — to  make  his  way  through  the 
infuriated  Turkish  villages  to  Bela  Cherkva  and  force  it  to 
rise. 

He  was  exposing  himseK  to  terrible  peril.  But  the  revolt 
of  Bela  Cherkva  would  supply  the  spark  which  would  kindle 
all  the  other  places  ready  to  rise  along  the  whole  length  of 
the  Stara  Planina.  The  forces  of  the  Turks  would  be 
divided.  Klissoura  would  be  saved — the  revolt  extended 
far  and  wide — ^and,  who  knows  ?  the  revolution  triumphant ! 
Many  great  events  in  history  have  been  due  to  trifling 
circumstances.  The  result  was,  therefore,  well  worth  the 
risk — and  if  any  one  could  achieve  it,  Ognianoff  was  the 
man. 

It  was  past  noon  when  he  reached  the  valley,  which  was 
now  in  full  bloom,  bathed  in  shade  and  verdure.  Clear 
crystal  brooks  flowed  down  the  hillsides  past  the  branching 
oaks.  The  air  was  heavy  with  the  perfume  of  the  roses, 
like  the  boudoir  of  some  royal  favourite.  The  valley 
beneath  that  azure  sky  and  in  the  joyous  rays  of  the  sun 
was  enchantingly  lovely — like  an  earthly  paradise .  But  the 
wayfarer  saw  nothing  of  all  this — he  would  have  preferred 
to  have  seen  it  in  flames. 

His  path  lay  through  the  Turkish  village  of  Rahmanlari, 
the  nearest  to  Klissoura.  He  approached  it  fearlessly.  As 
he  passed  through  the  rose-gardens  at  the  outskirts  of  the 
village,  he  was  stopped  by  some  armed  Turks,  who  were 
evidently  on  guard. 

"  Where  are  you  from,  brother  ?  " 

"  From  Altinovo." 

"  And  where  are  you  bound  for  ? '' 


VALLEY  OF  THE  STREMA  IN  FLAMES        228 

"  For  Ahievo  ;  are  things  quiet  there  ?  " 

Ahievo  was  the  nearest  Turkish  village  to  Bela  Cherkva. 

"  Yes,  thank  God." 

Ognianoff  felt  a  sharp  pang  at  his  heart. 

"  You'd  better  stop  at  the  village  ;  we're  going  to  attack 
Klissoura  to-morrow." 

"  Thanks— we'll  see.     Good-bye." 

And  Ognianoff  entered  the  village.  There  he  found  great 
excitement  prevailing,  the  streets  were  crowded,  groups  of 
armed  Turks  were  standing  about,  the  cafes  were  thronged, 
the  grocers'  shops  and  the  inn  were  full  of  people.  Evidently 
there  were  several  hundreds  of  Turks  there  from  neighbour- 
ing villages,  come  to  take  part  in  the  attack  on  Klissoura. 
Bahmanlari  was  the  place  of  meeting.  Though  over- 
whelmed with  a  terrible  presentiment  of  what  was  in  store 
for  Klissoura,  Ogiiianoff  was  still  more  anxious  for  positive 
information  respecting  Bela  Cherkva  :  he  yet  hoped  that 
it  might  have  risen  at  the  eleventh  hour.  He  had  almost 
made  up  his  mind  to  enter  the  inn,  which  was  kept  by  a 
native  of  Bela  Cherkva.  But  he  was  afraid  of  treachery 
and  did  not  go  in.  He  went  on,  eyeing  the  various  groups 
of  Turks,  undecided  which  he  should  approach.  He  hap- 
pened to  reach  the  door  of  the  mosque,  into  which  wor- 
shippers were  crowding  ;  he  looked  in  and  saw  that  it  was 
nearly  full.  Something  extraordinary  was  evidently  going 
on  there.  Ognianoff  guessed  that  the  khoja  was  going  to 
preach  a  sermon  to  excite  still  further  the  fanaticism  of  the 
already  infuriated  crowd.  An  insurmountable  curiosity 
impelled  him  to  squeeze  himself  in  among  the  throng  of 
worshippers.  He  was  not  disappointed — at  that  moment 
the  preacher  mounted  the  wooden  bench  which  serves  as 
the  pulpit  in  Mussulman  places  of  worship.  Ognianoff  saw 
at  once  that  it  was  no  common  village  khoja,  but  a  softa, 
who  had  probably  come  on  purpose  from  K. 

Amid  profound  silence,  the  softa  began  : 

"  Brethren  and  true  believers  !  There  was  a  time  in  the 
glorious  reign  of  our  great  Sultans  when  the  whole  world 
trembled  at  the  name  of  the  Osmanli.  East  and  West 
bowed  down  before  them  ;  kings  and  queens  prostrated 
themselves  to  lick  the  sacred  dust  before  the  throne  of  the 
Khalif .  Then  Allah  was  great,  and  great  was  His  sainted 
prophet  Mohammed.  But  it  seems  we  have  greatly  sinned 
before  God,  we  have  given  way  to  drunkenness  and  adultery. 


224  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

we  have  fraternised  with  the  unbeliever  and  adopted  his 
laws.  And  so  God  has  abandoned  us  to  be  destroyed  by  the 
vanquished,  to  be  trampled  on  by  the  downtrodden.  Ay, 
Allah  !  Allah  !  grant  us  the  flaming  sword  of  the  angel 
Azrail  that  we  may  drench  east  and  west  with  the  blood  of 
Thy  foes — that  we  may  redden  the  seas  and  glorify  the 
heavens.  This  is  my  prayer,  true  believers  !  Whet  your 
knives  and  make  ready  your  weapons,  for  the  hour  has 
struck,  and  we  shall  wash  away  our  shame  with  the  blood  of 
the  Ghiaours,  to  the  glory  of  the  one  and  only  God  of  Islam." 

In  this  spirit  the  orator  began  his  impassioned  harangue, 
which  was  a  long  one,  and  which  his  hundreds  of  hearers 
received  with  rapt  attention  and  increasing  enthusiasm. 

"  So  this  is  what's  going  on,"  thought  Ognianoff,  as  he 
went  out  into  the  street.  "  The  croakers  were  right  after 
all.  While  we  were  preaching  the  insurrection  against  the 
Turks,  their  apostles  were  preaching  the  extermination  of  the 
Bulgarian  nation.  The  struggle  will  be  a  terrible  one — it 
will  be  nation  against  nation.  Bulgaria  is  not  broad  enough 
to  contain  the  two  races  side  by  side  !  Well — so  be  it — no 
retreat  !  The  die  is  cast !  Oh  !  God  !  protect  Bulgaria  in 
her  holy  struggle  !  " 

And  he  began  again  to  walk  up  and  down  the  market- 
place. The  service  was  over  and  the  congregation  flocked 
out :  they  formed  in  small  groups,  all  evidently  still  under 
the  influence  of  the  words  they  had  been  listening  to. 
Ognianoff  drew  near  one  of  these  groups  to  catch  what  was 
being  said.  He  soon  understood  the  position  of  affairs. 
At  first  the  rising  at  Klissoura  had  terrified  the  Turkish 
population  of  the  neighbouring  villages,  because  they  were 
convinced  that  there  were  Russian  troops  at  Klissoura. 
Under  the  influence  of  this  idea,  they  had  begun  to  prepare 
for  flight  with  their  families  and  such  portable  property  as 
they  could  collect.  But  they  soon  learnt  from  Turks  who 
had  succeeded  in  escaping  unharmed  from  Klissoura — as  well 
as  from  the  want  of  daring  shown  by  the  insurgents — that 
they  had  to  do  with  common  rayas,  mostly  cloth -workers, 
and  a  few  schoolmasters ;  and  this  at  once  restored  their  con- 
fidence and  courage.  They  resolved  to  settle  accounts  with 
the  people  of  Klissoura  without  waiting  for  the  regular 
troops.  Ognianoff  also  heard  that  the  villagers  of  Rahman- 
lari  had  ascertained  through  skilfully  planned  recon- 
naissp  .ces  the  disposition  and  approximate  strength  of  each 


VALLEY  OF  THE  STREMA  IN  FLAMES      225 

garrison.  Tossoun  Bey  was  expected  to  arrive  the  next 
morning  from  K.  with  a  band  of  bashi-bozouks,  and  then 
they  would  at  once  attack  the  revolted  city. 

These  discoveries  terrified  Ognianoff .  He  now  recognised 
still  more  clearly  how  indispensable  it  was  to  hasten  the 
rising  in  other  Bulgarian  towns. 

Tossoun  Bey  must  be  anticipated. 

He  set  out  eastward.  He  passed  unmolested  through  the 
Turkish  village  of  Tekkie.  It  was  guarded  only  on  the 
western  side,  a  sign  that  no  danger  was  expected  from  the 
east.  Here  also  great  activity  was  noticeable  ;  here  also 
Tossoun  Bey's  arrival  was  being  awaited  ;  the  villagers 
were  to  join  his  horde. 

"  There's  not  a  minute  to  lose  !  Bela  Cherkva — Bela 
Cherkva.  Tossoun  Bey  must  first  of  all  try  his  strength 
against  its  walls  of  iron.  They'll  rise — ^yes,  yes — they'll  rise 
the  moment  I  get  there.  If  I  can  only  get  hold  of  Bez- 
portefE  we  two  will  proclaim  the  rebellion,  and  in  half 
an  hour  I'll  have  five  hundred  men  under  the  colours. 
Bela  Cherkva  must  revolt,  even  though  it  means  her  ruin. 
Forward,  forward  !     Oh,  God,  give  me  wings  !  " 

And  Ognianoff  tore  onwards  to  Bela  Cherkva.  In  two 
or  three  hours  he  would  see  from  afar  the  white  chimneys  of 
the  town,  and  the  pyramid-like  frontal  of  the  church.  His 
heart  beat  with  insensate  joy. 

Not  far  from  the  village  he  had  just  left  the  path  lay 
through  a  thickly  wooded  gorge  which  lay  in  a  cleft  of  the 
rocks.  When  he  reached  the  valley  he  seemed  to  hear 
distant  sounds  of  drums  and  cymbals.  Probably  some 
wedding  was  going  on  in  a  Turkish  village,  most  unseason- 
ably as  it  seemed.  But  soon  all  grew  silent  and  he  forgot 
what  he  had  heard.  As  he  emerged  at  the  opposite  end  of 
the  gorge  the  drums  and  cymbals  echoed  again,  this  time 
quite  close  by.  He  clinched  the  heights,  astounded  :  from 
the  summit  he  saw  a  spectacle  which  petrified  him  with 
dismay. 

The  whole  path  before  him  was  dark  with  Turks, 
marching  on  to  the  sound  of  that  barbaric  music.  Several 
red  banners  waved  in  the  air.  The  horde  was  moving  on 
without  any  order,  tumultuous  and  noisy.  In  the  sun  guns, 
scythes,  axes,  pitchforks,  gleamed  on  the  shoulders  of  the 
bashi-bozouks.  Most  of  them  were  in  their  waistcoats  and 
shirt-sleeves,  on  account  of  the  noonday  heat.     The  wave 


226  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

had  emptied  the  Turkish  villages  through  which  it  had 
passed.  There  was  no  semblance  of  discipline  throughout 
that  frenzied  horde  ;  but  a  fierce,  savage  object  united 
them,  inspired  them,  drove  them  ouAvard  :  they  all  sought 
alike  blood  and  booty.  For  the  first,  they  carried  their 
guns  and  scythes  ;  for  the  second,  a  whole  train  of  waggons 
followed  behind.  This  rabble,  drunken  with  fanaticism, 
moved  on  to  the  sound  of  the  drums  and  cymbals,  advancing 
slowly  but  irresistibly  like  a  swarm  of  locusts. 

Before  them  rode  a  tall,  thin,  dark  man,  with  a  white 
turban  :  he  was  their  leader. 

He  beckoned  to  the  gipsy  musicians  to  stop. 

"  Come  here,  Mussulman  !  "  he  cried  to  Ognianoff. 

OgnianofE  approached,  bowing  low. 

"  Where  are  you  coming  from  ?  " 

"  From  Tekkie." 

"  What's  going  on  there  ?  " 

"  Nothing— all's  well,  thank  God  !  " 

"  What  do  they  say — are  there  many  of  them  at 
KHssoura  ?  " 

*'  A  good  many,  they  say — God  save  the  Sultan  !  " 

"  Who  are  they  ?  " 

"  Moskovs,  they  say." 

"  Silence,  you  pimp.  They're  nothing  but  rascally 
rayas." 

"  Beg  pardon.  Bey  Effendi." 

"  Where  are  you  going  ?  " 

"  To  K." 

*'  Turn  back  and  come  along  with  us." 

Ognianoff  involuntarily  turned  pale. 

"  Bey  Effendi,  won't  you  let  me " 

"  To  the  rear,"  cried  Tossoun  Bey,  spurring  his  horse. 

The  host  moved  on  again — the  drums  and  cymbals 
struck  up — Ognianoff  was  forced  along  with  them. 

It  would  have  been  absurd  to  resist  or  to  try  to  pass 
through  the  mob  which  blocked  the  whole  path.  The 
wretched  man,  with  despair  in  his  soul,  let  himself  go  with 
the  throng.  He  was  utterly  overcome — ^his  last  hope  had 
vanished.  He  went  on  mechanically,  as  in  a  dream,  driven 
forward  by  the  noisy  crowd,  whose  numbers  and  fierce 
merriment  increased  every  moment.  And  the  human  wave 
pushed  on,  on,  to  the  bare  peaks  behind  which  lay 
Kiissoura. 


A  FRESH  ATTEMPT  227 

CHAPTER  XIV :    A  FRESH  ATTEMPT 

In  the  evening  Tossoun  Bey's  horde  reached  Rahmanlari, 

still  more  excited  and  fanatical.     It  was  met  there  by  a 

fresh  detachment  of  Turks  who  had  flocked  in  from  the 

surrounding  villages.     Tossoun  Bey  would  march  against 

Klissoura  the  next  day  with  a  force  of  about  two  thousand 

men. 

The  village  was  a  mass  of  light.  It  would  scarcely 
contain  these  new  arrivals.  As  the  night  was  a  fine  one, 
most  of  them  lay  down  to  sleep  in  the  streets. 

Ognianoff  unwillingly  followed  this  example. 

He  lay  down  by  himself  on  a  mound  near  the  inn,  which 
was  kept  by  a  man  from  Bela  Cherkva. 

Though  it  was  late,  there  were  still  lights  ijj  the  windows 
of  the  inn,  which  was  crowded. 

Ognianoff  was  resolved  not  to  sleep.  He  determined  to 
make  an  attempt  to  escape  from  that  hornet's  nest  of  Turks 
into  which  he  had  fallen — to-morrow  this  would  be  im- 
possible. 

Deep  in  thought,  he  fixed  his  eyes  on  the  brightly  illu- 
minated windows  of  the  inn.  He  was  trying  to  contrive 
some  means  of  passing  through  the  numerous  guards  that 
protected  every  exit  from  the  village. 

He  hoped  that  this  would  easily  be  accomplished  owing 
to  his  costume  and  thorough  knowledge  of  the  Turkish 
language.  But,  alas  !  what  would  his  escape  avail,  even  if 
he  was  successful  ? 

Bela  Cherkva  remained  peaceful,  and  nothing  could  save 
Klissoura  from  destruction. 

To  try  to  make  his  way  to  Bela  Cherkva  that  night  was 
almost  out  of  the  question  ;  the  guard  on  the  east  side  of  the 
village  had  strict  orders  to  let  no  one  pass,  so  as  to  keep 
back  any  casual  deserters.  Next  day  it  would  be  still  more 
impossible.  Indeed  had  it  been  posible,  he  would  not  have 
gone  to  Bela  Cherkva  now.  He  felt  he  had  no  right  to  be 
absent  from  Khssoura  at  so  terrible  a  moment.  His 
absence  would  be  considered  as  a  cowardly  desertion.  No, 
it  was  not  to  be  thought  of.  But  how  could  he  send  word 
to  Bela  Cherkva  ?  Could  he  not  make  one  last  attempt  ? 
And  he  strained  every  nerve  to  try  and  hit  upon  some  plan. 

At  last  an  idea  struck  him.  He  decided  to  propose  to 
the  innkeeper  to  send  one  of  his  sons  to  Bela  Cherkva  next 


228  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

morning  :  the  messenger  might  for  safety's  sake  be  ac- 
companied by  some  travelling  Turk,  as  to-morrow  was 
market-day  at  K. 

The  plan  seemed  a  feasible  one,  though  the  difficulties 
in  the  way  of  its  realisation  were  very  great,  but  its  impor- 
tance was  worth  the  effort  and  the  risk.  For  the  danger 
was  undeniable  :  he  must  begin  by  reveaKng  himself  to  the 
innkeeper,  and  place  his  fate  in  the  man's  hands. 

Fortunately  he  knew  him  and  his  family,  one  of  the  sons 
having  been  his  pupil :  this  somewhat  encouraged  him. 

He  rose  from  the  mound,  passed  boldly  through  the  gates 
of  the  courtyard,  traversed  the  yard,  and  drew  near  to  a 
small  window  in  a  little  room  at  the  end  of  the  yard  next  to 
the  stable  :  there  he  began  to  walk  up  and  down,  waiting 
till  chance  should  bring  out  one  of  the  family.  He  did  not 
venture  to  knock  at  the  window  or  the  door,  for  fear  of  the 
noise  being  overheard  by  the  Turks. 

For  a  long  time  he  paced  up  and  down  before  any  one 
came  out.  The  innkeeper  and  his  sons  were  doubtless 
busy  in  the  inn,  and  there  was  no  one  but  his  wife  and 
the  younger  children  in  the  room.  So  at  last  he  resolved 
to  knock  at  the  door. 

But  chance  came  to  his  aid.  The  door  opened  and  a 
female  figure  appeared.  Ognianoff  recognised  the  inn- 
keeper's wife.  She  was  going  towards  the  stable  with  a 
measure  of  barley  under  her  arm.  Either  she  did  not  see 
him  in  the  dark,  or  more  probably  she  took  him  for  a  Turk 
who  had  come  to  look  after  his  horse. 

Ognianoff  went  up  to  her,  and  said  clearly  in  Bulgarian  : 

"  Good  evening,  Sister  Avramitsa." 

She  turned  round  in  surprise,  or  rather  in  terror. 

"  Don't  you  know  me  ?  "  he  added  in  a  fawning  voice, 
and,  to  quiet  her  fears,  he  hastened  to  disclose  himself  to 
her. 

"  I'm  Ognianoff,  your  son  Nanko's  teacher." 

"  What,  the  Count  ?  "  she  asked,  astounded,  putting  the 
measure  of  barley  under  her  other  arm.  "  What  are  you 
doing  here  ?  " 

Then,  as  she  suddenly  understood  his  situation  : 

"  Come  in,  come  in.  Wait  till  I  fill  the  horse's  bag  with 
barley,  and  we'll  go  in." 

Half  a  minute  later  Avramitsa  and  Ognianoff  had  entered 
a  dark  little  room.     The  innkeeper's  wife  struck  a  match 


A  FRESH  ATTEMPT  229 

and  lighted  a  tin  lamp,  which  at  once  cast  a  dim  light  over 
the  room  and  her  visitor. 

"  There's  a  way  out  into  the  garden  by  this  door,  and 
from  there  you  can  get  over  the  fence  into  the  street.  It 
may  be  useful  for  you  to  know  it,"  whispered  Avramitsa, 
pointing  to  a  trap-door  so  small  that  a  man  could  scarcely 
crawl  through  it.  "  But  what  have  you  come  here  for  ?  '* 
she  asked. 

"  I  was  going  to  Bela  Cherkva  from  Klissoura,  but 
Tossoun  Bey  met  me  beyond  Tekkie,  and  turned  me  back." 

In  response  to  her  hospitality  Ognianoff  felt  himself 
obliged  to  be  perfectly  sincere  with  her.  He  could  do 
nothing  without  her  assistance. 

Avramitsa  looked  compassionately  at  him. 

"  Dear,  dear  !  the  poor  people  :  it's  terrible  to  think  of 
what's  in  store  for  them.  All  this  band's  going  to 
Klissoura." 

"  Klissoura  must  fall.  Sister  Avramitsa  :  it'll  be  reduced 
to  dust  and  ashes.  I  did  my  utmost  to  save  it,  but  it's  no 
good.     I  can't  get  through  to  Bela  Cherkva." 

"  What  good  would  that  be  ?  What  could  you  do 
there  ?  " 

"  I'd  have  got  Bela  Cherkva  to  rise,  and  the  villages 
round  it  as  well ;  and  Tossoun  Bey  would  have  had  to  come 
back." 

"  The  Lord  destroy  the  black  gipsy  !  But  what  are  you 
going  to  do  now  ?  "  asked  Avramitsa  again,  not  knowing 
what  Ognianofif  wished  her  to  do. 

"  Where's  your  Nanko — ^is  he  here  ?  " 

"  Yes." 

"  And  Kousman  ?  '* 

"  He's  here  too." 

"  Where  are  they  ?  " 

"  In  the  shop  helping  their  father — to  see  that  these 
scoundrels  don't  steal  anything." 

Ognianoff  thought  for  a  moment. 

"  Couldn't  we  send  one  of  them — either  Nanko  or 
Kousman — to  Bela  Cherkva  to-morrow  morning  ?  " 

The  mother  looked  at  him  with  dismay. 

"  He  might  go  with  some  Turk  from  here  whom  he 
knows.  It's  market-day  at  K.  to-morrow,  and  there  must 
be  plenty  going  from  Rahmanlari." 

"  Yes,  but  it's  terrible  just  now,  teacher." 


230  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  It  won't  be  terrible  if  he  has  a  Turk  with  him.  Besides, 
everything's  quiet  over  there.     No  one'll  touch  him." 

"  And  what  do  you  want  to  send  him  there  for  ?  " 

"  Just  to  take  a  letter  for  me  to  a  friend  of  mine  ;  he  can 
be  back  here  again  by  noon." 

Avramitsa  thought  of  Boicho's  words  a  moment  before, 
and  guessed  what  was  the  message  he  wished  to  send  by 
her  son  to  Bela  Cherkva.     Her  face  became  still  gloomier. 

"  Well,  teacher,  I  must  ask  their  father's  leave  first." 

"  Sister  Avramitsa,  please  don't  say  anything  about  it  to 
Avram.  Can't  you  send  word  quietly  to  Nanko  to  come 
and  see  me  ?  " 

Ognianoff  knew  that  his  former  pupil  idolised  him,  and 
would  do  anything  he  asked  him. 

The  woman's  face  grew  stem. 

"  No,  no  ;  I'll  do  nothing  without  Avram's  leave." 

"  But  he'll  never  let  the  boy  go." 

Evidently  the  good  will  she  had  borne  him  a  moment 
before  had  disappeared.  Before  her  mind  appeared  the 
thousand  dangers  which  might  befall  her  child  if  he  went 
to  Bela  Cherkva.  She  began  to  tremble  before  this  strange 
and  terrible  man.  She  regretted  inwardly  that  she  had  not 
at  once  sent  him  about  his  business,  and  began  to  look 
around  her  uneasily.  But  her  kind  heart  would  not  allow 
her  to  yield  to  the  cruel  thought  which  suggested  itself  to 
her. 

Ognianoff  remarked  her  violent  agitation.  He  saw  that 
it  was  impossible  to  settle  so  important  a  question  with  a 
weak,  irresolute  woman.  Time  was  going  by,  and  he  must 
begin  to  think  of  his  escape.  He  resolved  to  know  the 
worst. 

"  Well,  Sister  Avramitsa,  go  and  call  the  master  ;  I  want 
to  talk  to  him  for  a  minute." 

Avramitsa  was  at  once  relieved. 

"  I'll  go  and  whisper  to  him.  You  stop  here,  and 
remember  the  trap-door,  if  you  hear  anything  wrong." 

And  she  went  out. 


CHAPTER  XV :  AVRAM 

Ognianoff  remained  alone.  He  resolved  to  be  quite  open 
with  Avram.  He  must  have  complete  confidence  in  the 
man,  and  trust  to  his  honour.    The  object  he  had  in  view 


AVRAM  231 

was  worth  a  hundred  lives  like  his  own,  if  it  could  only  be 
attained.  At  all  events,  Avram  was  a  Bulgarian  ;  he  might 
refuse  his  request,  but  he  would  not  betray  him.  He  heard 
steps  in  the  passage  outside  :  he  guessed  that  this  must  be 
Avram.     And  he  waited  quietly  by  the  door. 

The  door  opened  and  the  innkeeper  came  in.  His  fat, 
ruddy  countenance  was  smiling  all  over.  He  closed  the 
door  behind  him. 

"  Oh  !  welcome.  Count,  welcome  !  How  are  you  ?  all 
right,  eh  ?  That's  a  good  idea  of  yours  to  come  and  see  us, 
and  have  a  talk  ;  well,  I  am  glad.  We're  all  glad  to  see  you, 
the  wife's  glad  too,  and  won't  the  children  be  glad  when 
they  know  ?  Why,  Nanko  hasn't  seen  you  for  six  months  : 
he's  always  saying  how  kind  you  were  to  him.  Welcome, 
welcome — well,  I  never." 

And  his  joy  and  rapture  seemed  boundless. 

Ognianoff  was  overjoyed.  He  went  boldly  to  work, 
explained  in  a  few  words  his  position  to  Avram,  and  repeated 
the  proposal  he  had  made  to  his  wife. 

Avram's  face  continued  to  beam  with  satisfaction. 

"  Of  course,  of  course — that's  all  right — ^why  not  ?  It's 
not  worth  talking  about  ?  Who  wouldn't  do  as  much  for 
the  nation  ?  " 

"  Thanks,  thanks,  master  Avram,"  said  Ognianoff  with 
emotion  ;  "at  this  great  moment  every  Bulgarian  is  bound 
to  make  some  sacrifice  for  the  country." 

"  And  who  wouldn't  help  ?  There  isn't  a  single  Bulgarian 
who  wouldn't.  Whoever  refuses  to  assist  in  a  sacred  cause 
hke  that  deserves  God's  curse.  No,  no,  that's  all  right. 
Which  boy  shall  we  send  ?  " 

"  Better  send  Nanko,  he's  the  oldest  and  the  sharpest." 

"  Very  well,  that's  all  right,  he's  your  pupil.  He'd  give 
his  head  for  you.  Won't  he  be  glad  when  I  tell  him  ? 
Have  you  written  the  note  ?  " 

And  Avram's  voice  trembled  with  joyful  excitement. 

"  I'll  write  it  in  a  minute."  And  Ognianoff  fumbled  in 
his  pockets.     "  Haven't  you  got  a  bit  of  paper  ?  " 

The  innkeeper  took  out  a  piece  of  paper,  handed  it  to 
Ognianoff,  and  said  : 

""There  you  are — you  write  the  letter,  while  I  give  a  look 
round  at  the  shop.     These  fellows  are  regular  thieves." 

"  Make  haste  back,  master  Avram,  and  bring  my  Nanko 
with  you.     I've  already  told  you  I  must  be  off  myself." 


232  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  I'll  be  back  in  a  minute."  And  the  innkeeper,  with 
one  last  smile  at  his  visitor,  opened  the  door  and  went 
out. 

Ognianoff  scribbled  off  his  note  in  a  moment.  It  con- 
sisted of  the  following  lines  : — 

"  The  insurrection's  ablaze  !  Don't  delay  a  moment ; 
proclaim  the  revolt  at  once  ;  send  a  detachment  to  fall  upon 
Tossoun  Bey's  rear,  and  another  to  raise  the  villages. 
Courage  and  confidence  !  I  will  soon  come  to  you  to  die 
for  Bulgaria.     Long  hve  the  revolt. — Ognianoff." 

He  congratulated  himself  on  his  success.  He  would 
never  have  expected  to  find  such  readiness  and  patriotism 
in  Avram.  He  now  listened  impatiently  for  the  father's  and 
son's  footsteps.  The  noise  and  bustle  of  the  street  scarcely 
reached  that  remote  room.  The  lamp  was  burning  down 
and  emitted  thick  clouds  of  smoke. 

Suddenly,  he  heard  a  piercing,  heartrending  shriek — ^a 
woman's  wail — in  the  next  room. 

Ognianofi  shuddered. 

He  recognised  the  voice  as  that  of  Avramitsa. 

What  was  the  meaning  of  this  lamentation  ? 

He  was  seized  with  involuntary  terror. 

He  listened  intently  in  the  semi-darkness  ;  he  thought  he 
heard  steps  retreating  in  the  corridor  outside. 

He  rushed  to  the  trap-door  and  tried  to  open  it.  But  it 
resisted  his  efforts  ;  it  seemed  to  be  firmly  fastened.  It  was 
a  terrible  position  ;  his  hair  stood  on  end. 

"  They've  betrayed  me  !  "  he  thought  to  himself. 

At  that  moment  he  heard  a  noise  at  the  trap -door  as  if  the 
lock  was  being  tried  with  a  key.  Suddenly  it  opened,  and 
the  night  air  blew  fresh  through  the  aperture.  Ognianoff 
peered  into  the  dark  hole  which  opened  on  to  the  garden. 
He  then  distinguished  a  human  form. 

It  was  Avramitsa. 

"  Fly  !  "  she  whispered  low.  In  the  dim  lamplight 
Ognianoff  could  see  that  she  was  bathed  in  tears. 

He  crawled  through  and  hastened  across  the  garden. 

"  This  way,"  whispered  Avramitsa,  pointing  to  a  plum- 
tree  in  the  hedge.     Aiid  she  vanished  in  the  darkness. 

Ognianoff  leaped  over  the  garden  hedge  and  found  him- 
self in  the  back  street,  which  was  quite  deserted. 


NIGHT  238 

He  passed  hurriedly  along  the  street,  which  led  him  past 
the  front  door  of  the  house. 

There  he  ran  against  a  throng  of  armed  Turks.  They 
passed  through  the  gates  and  made  straight  for  the  end  of 
the  yard. 

Ognianoff  went  rapidly  on  till  he  too  was  lost  to  sight. 

CHAPTER  XVI :    NIGHT 

It  was  long  after  midnight  when  Ognianoff,  after  many 

hair-breadth  escapes,  returned  to  the  fort. 

The  garrison  was  still  awake  ;  the  men  lay  rolled  up  in 
rugs  and  blankets  brought  from  their  houses.  They  were 
talking  quietly  as  they  watched  the  moonless,  starlit  sky. 
OgnianoS  penetrated  noiselessly  among  them  and  lay  down 
exhausted,  physically  and  mentally.  He  was  trying  to 
gather  his  wandering  thoughts,  or  at  least  to  get  a  little 
sleep,  which  he  required  so  much,  so  as  to  be  able  to  face 
the  next  day  boldly.  But  his  thoughts  were  dispersed  like 
a  swarm  of  startled  bees,  and  sleep  fled  from  his  eyelids.  It 
is  not  easy  to  sleep  on  the  eve  of  a  battle,  or  rather  a 
disaster. 

By  his  side  a  low  conversation  was  going  on  among  a 
small  group  of  insurgents  l5ang  there  :  the  conversation 
attracted  his  attention. 

"  Do  what  you  will,  we're  all  done  for,"  said  one. 

"  Ah,  they've  deceived  us,  they've  deceived  us,"  sighed 
another. 

"  What  fools  we  were  to  listen  to  the  scoundrels  !  We've 
burnt  our  own  houses  down  over  our  heads,"  declared  a 
third. 

"  What  did  we  want  with  a  revolt,  I  should  like  to 
know  ?  " 

"  It's  too  late  now  to  cry  over  that." 

"  Well,  what  then  ?  " 

"  We  must  find  some  way  out  of  it." 

"  There's  only  one  way  out  of  it,  and  that's  to  leg  it,"  said 
a  voice  which  was  famihar  to  Ognianoff . 

"  Yes,  yes.  Hook-it's  mother  doesn't  weep." 

"  No,  but  Hold-hard's  will,"  added  another. 

"  We'd  better  cut  it  to-morrow,  towards  Vrlishnitsa." 

"  Better  do  it  now." 

"  No,  we  can't,  we'd  be  stopped  by  the  patrol." 


284  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  To-morroWj  to-morrow." 

"  To-morrow  everybody '11  take  to  their  heels,  they'll  show 
us  the  way." 

"  Only  take  care  Ognianoff  doesn't  see  us,  the  dog  !  " 

"  Oh  !   he  cleared  out  this  morning." 

"  Did  he  ?  " 

"  Yes,  we're  the  only  fools  left  behind." 

Ognianoff  leaped  to  his  feet  and  cried  : 

"  It's  a  lie,  you  wretches,  here  I  am  !  " 

At  that  terrible  voice  coming  from  out  of  the  darkness 
they  all  disappeared. 

Ognianoff  had  listened  to  the  conversation  with  mingled 
disgust  and  terror.  There  could  be  no  doubt  that  it 
expressed  the  general  turn  of  mind  of  the  insurgents  at 
that  fort  as  well  as  the  others.  The  voice  of  one  of  the 
speakers  seemed  to  be  familiar  to  him  of  old,  but  he  could 
not  call  to  mind  where  he  had  heard  it. 

*'  My  God,  my  God  !  "  he  thought  to  himself,  drawing  his 
cloak  carefully  round  him  to  keep  out  the  chill  night  air. 
"  What  a  state  of  things  :  what  disenchantment :  what  a 
disaster  !  Who  can  care  for  life,  or  wish  to  Hve  any  longer, 
after  this  ?  To-morrow  we'll  have  to  fight,  and  I  can  see 
what  will  be  the  end  of  that.  The  panic's  in  their  hearts, 
the  fear  of  death  has  paralysed  their  arms  and  their  minds, 
and  yet  they  were  ready  to  meet  death  when  they  first  came. 
The  nation  was  fearless — ^it  hoped — it  beHeved,  like  a  child, 
and  now  it  trembles  like  a  child.  The  cowardice  of  one  has 
infected  many.  Bela  Cherkva  and  the  rest  have  de- 
moralised ElLssoura.  It's  cowardice — ^it's  base  treachery 
against  the  common  cause.  That  intriguing  city  is  only 
good  for  producing  traitors  and  treachery  ;  it  can  beget  a 
Kandoff,  an  Avram,  a  Rada  !  Ah  !  how  that  girl  has 
poisoned  the  last  few  hours  of  my  life — ^how  I  seek  death  ! 
how  gladly  I'd  welcome  it !  How  proudly  and  gladly  I 
would  have  died,  convinced  that  at  least  one  honest  tear 
could  be  shed  over  my  unknown  grave  !  But  to  die  when 
everything  in  this  world  is  dead  to  you,  when  you  see  your 
two  great  idols  in  the  mire,  your  beloved  ideals  trampled 
on — ^Love  and  Revolution  !  Ah  !  how  hard  and  hopeless 
it  is  to  die  now  !  And  yet  how  desirous,  how  indispensable 
it  is  for  hapless  wretches  like  me  !  " 

The  mountain  wind  whistled  shrilly  down  the  slumbering 
valley.    A  dull  and  ominous  rustling  arose  from  the  thickets 


MORNING  236 

around,  which  the  darkness  made  still  more  weird.  All  the 
peaks,  valleys,  and  hills  around,  all  Nature,  seemed  to  be 
sobbing  in  terror.  The  stars  twinkled  hastily  and  uneasily 
in  the  sky.  But  for  the  hooting  of  the  owls,  no  sign  of  life 
was  audible.  From  time  to  time  the  insurgents  would 
wake  up  and  peer  into  the  night,  only  to  fall  asleep  again, 
and  see  in  dreams  the  ghostly  phantoms  of  terror,  while  the 
wind  imprinted  its  icy-cold  kisses  on  their  brows. 

Only  one  human  form  seemed  still  awake  on  the  trenches. 
This  man,  this  insurgent,  paced  up  and  down  without 
stopping — quietly,  regularly,  mechanically.  He  seemed 
completely  absorbed  in  his  thoughts,  and  to  be  moving  quite 
unconsciously.  One  would  have  taken  him  for  a  sentinel, 
but  the  guards  were  in  front,  at  some  distance  from  the  fort. 
Hours  passed  on,  and  the  solitary  walker  still  kept  on  his 
pace  unaltered.  From  time  to  time  his  figure  became  in- 
visible against  the  dark  background  of  the  opposite  rocks, 
then  it  shone  out  again  in  the  bright  starlight.  The  second 
cockcrow  sounded  at  Klissoura .  This  seemed  to  awake  him . 
He  started,  and  remained  for  some  minutes  motionless, 
turning  towards  Klissoura  :  then  he  made  an  almost  im- 
perceptible sign  without  moving  from  his  place.  Suddenly 
a  tiny  flame  flashed  before  him  and  was  at  once  extinguished : 
it  was  accompanied  by  a  loud  snap,  which  was  not  repeated. 
It  was  clearly  the  flash  of  some  flintlock  weapon,  which 
had  failed  to  ignite  the  charge.  The  man  had  fired  at  some- 
thing. But  at  what  ?  The  slight  flash  and  noise  attracted 
no  attention  from  the  sleeping  insurgents,  numbed  with 
cold.  Meanwhile,  the  ringing  note  of  the  cocks  of  KUssoura 
penetrated  the  night  air  and  filled  the  lonely  mountains 
with  its  cheerful  sound,  the  forerunner  of  dawn,  of  the 
golden  sun,  of  life,  and  the  renewed  festival  of  spring. 

CHAPTER  XVII :    MORNING 

In  spite  of  his  agitation  of  mind,  Ognianoff  at  length  fell 
asleep  and  slept  soundly  for  two  hours.  Such  slumber, 
they  say,  is  enjoyed  by  the  condemned  the  night  before 
their  execution.  At  dawn  he  woke,  and  scanned  the  horizon 
carefully.  Nature  was  awaking  :  the  morning  star  stiU 
stone  in  the  bluish-grey  heavens,  which  were  getting 
brighter  and  brighter  towards  the  east :  there  a  red,  fiery 
glow  rested  on  the  summits  of  the  mountains,  like  the  glare 


236  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

of  some  distant  fire.  Dark  mists  still  overhung  the  steep 
precipices  of  the  Ribaritsa,  but  its  crown  of  snow  was 
growing  rosy  under  the  reflection  of  the  eastern  dawn. 
Only  the  Bogdan  was  still  wrapped  in  mist  and  wore  a  cold 
and  forbidding  look.  But  slowly  the  mist  dispersed,  the 
light  became  brighter  and  more  powerful,  and  the  green 
hills,  forests,  and  valleys  around  smiled  joyously  beneath 
the  blue  heaven  of  that  spring  mom.  Here  and  there  the 
morning  nightingale's  note  could  be  heard  in  the  glades. 

Ognianoff  rose,  glanced  at  the  sleeping  garrison,  wrapped 
in  furs  and  cloaks,  and  proceeded  in  the  direction  of  Zli 
Dol.     He  was  going  to  confer  with  the  Council  of  War. 

Soon  he  was  lost  to  sight  in  the  valley  through  which  his 
path  lay. 

It  was  now  broad  dayhght,  and  the  sun  had  fairly  risen. 

The  insurgents  in  the  fort  were  now  all  afoot  and  be- 
ginning to  work  at  new  trenches,  under  the  supervision  of 
the  decurions.  They  seemed  bolder  now.  Marchefi  had 
whispered  to  them  that  Ognianoff  had  reconnoitred  as  far 
as  Tekkie,  and  that  he  knew  positively  that  Bela  Cherkva 
would  rise  that  day.  This  news  shghtly  restored  their 
courage.  The  lads  were  more  at  their  ease  now,  their 
faces  seemed  even  cheerful,  and  some  went  so  far  as  to 
sing  songs.  The  humour  which  is  indigenous  to  the  soil 
was  not  slow  to  appear.  Jests  were  made  at  the  expense  of 
the  four  Klissouriots  who  had  been  sentenced  to  fire  at  the 
gipsy  on  the  previous  day. 

"  Fancy  not  being  able  to  hit  Mehmed  at  five  paces  !  and 
having  to  fire  a  second  time  :  poor  fellow,  his  sins  are 
upon  you  now.  The  one  minute  you  lengthened  his  life  by 
was  like  a  hundred  years  of  torture.  All  his  sins  are 
forgiven  him  now,"  said  one. 

"  Confound  you,"  said  another,  "  you've  made  a  martyr 
of  him.     Now  he's  in  Paradise  with  Mohammed." 

"  It's  not  true,"  said  a  third.  "  Dicho  and  Stamen  the 
Crow  threw  them  in  the  ditch  there — I  saw  him  myself — and 
now  he's  with  the  frogs." 

They  all  laughed. 

"  So  near,  and  not  a  single  bullet  in  him  !  "  cried  another  ; 
"  why  I  could  have  spit  on  him  at  that  distance." 

"I'd  bet  anything  you  never  aimed  at  him  !  " 

"  Of  course  not — my  grandmother  could  have  hit  him  at 
that  distance." 


THE  FIGHT  287 

"  We  did  aim  at  him,"  said  one  of  the  four. 

"  Well,  you  aimed  pretty  badly  then." 

"  Just  as  I  was  firing,  I  winked,  and " 

More  laughter  followed. 

"  What  are  those  fellows  beckoning  for  ?  "  said  some  one, 
turning  to  the  east. 

They  all  looked  in  that  direction. 

The  outposts  were  giving  the  conventional  signal  that 
they  had  seen  the  enemy.  At  the  same  time  two  men 
hastened  from  thence  to  the  Zli  Dol  battery,  to  report  to 
the  Council  of  War  what  they  had  seen. 

Just  as  these  reached  the  fort  in  question,  two  bands  of 
mounted  Turks,  each  about  twenty  strong,  came  in  sight 
from  the  direction  of  Rahmanlari.  One  band  was  following 
the  path,  the  other  took  to  the  thicket.  The  insurgents 
gazed  anxiously  to  see  if  any  fresh  forces  appeared  behind 
these,  but  nothing  could  be  seen. 

At  once  two  detachments  of  infantry  more  numerous 
than  the  Turks  hurried  down  from  the  forts  to  meet  the 
enemy.     The  larger  detachment  came  from  Zli  Dol. 

"  Who's  their  leader  ?  "  asked  the  insurgents  of  each 
other,  looking  curiously  at  the  commander,  who  was  very 
like  a  Turk. 

"  Why,  Ognianoff,  can't  you  see  ?  "  said  several  all  at 
once. 

The  Turks  stopped  when  they  saw  the  Bulgarians 
advancing,  and  retreated. 

"  They've  taken  to  their  heels,"  said  some  one  joyfully. 

"  We'll  fight  'em  to-day." 

'*  It  seems  to  me  they'll  have  trouble  with  Bela  Cherkva 
yet,"  declared  another. 

And  the  fort  was  busy  with  activity  and  cheerful  conver- 
sation. 


CHAPTER  XVIII :    THE  FIGHT 

Noon  came  and  went.     The  sun  was  now  at  its  highest. 

The  men  in  Ognianoff's  battery  had  finished  their  dinner 
and  were  hurriedly  putting  away  in  their  knapsacks  the 
scraps  that  remained.  Anxiety  was  depicted  on  their 
haggard,  dusty  faces,  unwashed  for  the  last  week,  dis- 
couragement was  again  visible  there  :  a  slight  success  in  the 
morning  had  given  them  a  little  confidence,  but  only  for  a 


238  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

moment.  They  knew  that  if  the  decisive  struggle  did  not 
take  place  that  day,  it  would  inevitably  be  on  the  next. 
They  felt  that  the  storm  was  gathering  over  them  with 
terrible  rapidity.  And  from  time  to  time  they  cast  uneasy 
glances  towards  the  east  upon  the  bare  heights,  whence  the 
distant  outposts  appeared. 

The  sun  was  very  hot.  On  the  right-hand  side  of  the 
battery,  which  had  been  marked  out  and  prepared  on  the 
previous  night,  Ognianoff  was  busily  engaged  with  several 
insurgents  who  were  rapidly  throwing  up  another  trench. 
A  reinforcement  of  ten  men  had  been  sent  to  the  fort  on  the 
previous  day  and  the  trenches  required  to  be  enlarged. 

"  Teacher,"  said  a  peasant,  fifty  years  of  age,  who  came 
up  just  then. 

Ognianoff  turned  round. 

"  What  is  it,  Father  Marin  ?  " 

The  peasant  from  Verigovo  gave  him  a  paper,  roughly 
folded  in  four. 

*'  There's  a  letter  come  for  you  !  " 

"  Who  brought  it  ?  "  asked  Boicho  before  opening  it. 

"  Ivan  Kill-the-Bear.  He  was  looking  for  you  here  last 
night,  but  he  couldn't  find  you,  so  he  gave  it  to  me  to  give 
you  when  you  came  back." 

*'  Did  he  say  who  it  was  from  ?  " 

"  From  the  schoolmistress."     • 

Ognianoff  felt  a  pang  at  his  heart,  as  if  a  serpent  had 
stung  him  there.  He  crushed  the  letter  convulsively  with 
the  intention  of  throwing  it  away  ;  but  it  occurred  to  him 
that  this  would  be  noticed,  and  he  placed  it  in  the  pocket 
of  his  tunic.  He  returned  to  his  work  hurriedly  and 
feverishly  to  deaden  the  feeling  of  torture  which  the  sight 
of  the  letter  had  caused  him. 

"  What  does  this  Rada  want  of  me,  at  this  moment,  too  ? 
Can't  I  be  left  alone,  to  see  the  struggle,  to  meet  death  at 
last,  so  that  all  may  be  over  !  " 

Just  then  something  unusual  had  evidently  occurred. 
All  the  insurgents  flocked  to  the  edge  of  the  fort  and  gazed 
towards  the  east. 

Ognianoff  raised  his  head  and  glanced  in  that  direction. 
The  outposts  were  making  signals  of  distress.  Several  guns 
were  fired,  a  sign  that  the  enemy  was  advancing  in  force. 

Soon  they  began  to  retreat  rapidly  from  their  posts, 
crying  : 


THE  FIGHT  239 

"  They're  coming — crowds  of  them  !  " 

The  fort  was  thrown  into  a  state  of  confusion.  The 
garrison  flocked  hither  and  thither,  panic-stricken. 

"  To  your  posts,  I  command  you,"  cried  Ognianoff, 
seizing  his  Martini  from  the  heap  where  all  the  guns  lay 
piled. 

At  this  order  the  insurgents  started  and  each  returned  to 
his  place  in  the  trenches. 

At  critical  moments  the  courage  and  presence  of  mind 
of  one  man  act  like  magic  on  the  mass :  any  one  who 
wishes  may  then  command  them. 

Several  men  from  the  outposts  arrived  just  then,  wearied 
out  by  their  rapid  flight.     Ognianoff  met  them. 

"  What  did  you  see  ?  "  he  asked. 

*'  Turks — a  terrible  horde  advancing — there  must  be  a 
thousand  of  them.     The  road's  black  with  bashi-bozouks." 

Ognianoff  made  a  sign  to  them  to  be  silent. 

*'  Hold  hard  !  "  he  cried,  seeing  that  several  of  the 
garrison  had  again  left  the  trenches. 

"  Crowds,  crowds  of  them  !  "  muttered  several,  as  they 
raised  their  heads  over  the  rampart. 

"  To  your  places — every  one  to  his  arm  !  "  commanded 
Boicho  authoritatively.     They  all  returned  to  their  posts. 

*'  Here  they  come  !  " 

In  truth  far  away  on  the  main  pass  where  it  emerges  on 
the  summit  of  the  mountain  the  head  of  a  thick  column 
could  be  seen  :  its  length  increased  every  moment — it 
resembled  a  gigantic  caterpillar.  This  was  Tossoun  Bey's 
horde.  The  nearer  it  approached  the  more  numerous  and 
redoubtable  it  appeared.  The  Turks  were  marching  four 
abreast  :  twenty  small  flags  and  three  great  banners,  white, 
red,  green  and  other  colours,  waved  over  the  column.  It 
soon  filled  the  whole  road  from  the  Tower  to  Bela  Voda — 
a  distance  of  a  mile  and  a  half. 

Confusion  again  prevailed  in  the  ranks  of  the  garrison. 
No  one  could  be  induced  to  remain  at  his  post.  All  looked 
despairingly  at  the  advancing  enemy. 

Only  Ognianoff's  fierce  glance  restrained  them  a  little. 

The  black  column  continued  its  march  along  the  road, 
till  it  reached  the  fountain,  about  gunshot  distance  from 
the  fort. 

Then  from  the  garrison  from  Zli  Dol  several  guns  were 
fired  :    and  a  volley  was  discharged  also  from  Ognianoff's 


240  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

fort,  at  his  command.  A  cloud  of  smoke  covered  the 
trenches,  and  the  mountains  echoed  with  the  report. 

Several  men  in  the  front  ranks  of  the  column  were  seen 
to  fall. 

At  that  moment  OgnianofiP  caught  sight  of  the  ^heads  of 
three  men  stealthily  making  for  the  path  towards  the  Stara 
Reka  brook.  These  were  insurgents  deserting  the  fort 
under  cover  of  the  smoke  and  general  confusion.  Ognianofi 
instinctively  recognised  in  the  fugitives  his  neighbours  of 
the  previous  evening  who  had  planned  their  flight  aloud. 

He  leapt  to  the  verge  of  the  rock  down  the  side  of  which 
they  were  descending.  The  fugitives  were  climbing  down 
one  after  another  by  a  steep  rocky  path  hollowed  out  by  the 
winter  torrents. 

"  Back — back  to  your  places,  or  I'll  fire,"  he  cried,  pointing 
his  gun  at  them. 

The  fugitives  turned  round  and  remained  fixed  to  the 
ground  as  if  petrified.  They  had  left  their  guns  behind 
them.  In  one  of  them  Ognianoff  recognised  Deacon 
Vikenti,  shaved  and  in  peasant  dress.  The  lad  blushed  to 
the  eyes  for  very  shame  ;  it  was  his  voice  that  Ognianoff 
had  tried  in  vain  to  recollect  the  night  before. 

The  fugitives  turned  back  mechanically. 

"  Father  Marin,  take  these  cowards  and  put  them  to  work 
in  the  trenches.  If  one  of  them  attempts  to  escape,  blow  his 
brains  out,"  and  Ognianoff  returned  hurriedly  to  his  post. 

"  Why,  you  ^\Tetched  cowards,  you  might  have  fired  off 
your  guns  at  least  before  trying  to  cut  it,"  grumbled  Father 
Marin,  as  he  led  them  to  the  trenches  with  his  gun  pointed 
at  them. 

The  commander's  vigorous  action  calmed  the  remainder 
of  the  insurgents.  They  repressed  all  tokens  of  fear,  but 
for  a  few  minutes  only.  Their  lips  were  tightly  clenched, 
and  the  panic  would  soon  become  general. 

The  Turks  had  not  yet  fired  off  a  single  gun.  The  fall 
of  their  comrades  occasioned  by  the  first  volley  from  the 
fort  had  for  a  moment  thrown  confusion  into  their  ranks. 
They  carried  the  wounded  into  the  rose-gardens  close  by 
and  retreated  hurriedly.  This  first  success  emboldened  the 
insurgents,  who  kept  up  an  energetic  fire  upon  the  enemy. 
The  whole  mountain  seemed  to  tremble  under  the  uninter- 
rupted firing.  White  puffs  of  smoke  hung  over  the  various 
peaks  and  showed  where  the  forts  were.     The  fire  was  kept 


THE  FIGHT  241 

up  even  when  the  Turks  had  retreated  out  of  range.  Far 
away  behind  the  horde  could  be  seen  a  knot  of  horsemen. 
These  composed  Tossoun  Bey's  staff.  The  fugitives  ap- 
proached them  and  formed  a  thick  group  round  them, 
which  remained  there  for  some  time.  Evidently  the  plan 
for  the  attack  was  being  concerted.  Soon  a  movement  was 
noticeable  in  that  armed  throng  :  it  formed  into  several 
groups,  which  separated  the  one  from  the  other.  Then,  as 
if  at  a  given  signal,  all  these  groups  rushed  forward  with 
wild  and  excited  cries.  Some  advanced  along  the  bare 
summits  towards  the  mountain,  others  towards  the  heights 
of  Zli  Dol,  others  in  the  direction  of  the  Sredna  Gora 
towards  the  valley  of  the  Stara  Reka,  through  which  lies 
the  pass  to  EJissoura,  and  others  again  towards  Ognianofif's 
fort.  The  insurgents  greeted  their  advance  with  a  volley 
while  they  were  yet  far  distant,  but  the  Turks  reserved  their 
fire  till  they  came  within  range. 

In  a  few  minutes  the  fort  was  completely  hidden  in  clouds 
of  smoke  from  the  constant  firing,  but  the  numbers  of  the 
garrison  decreased  steadily  every  moment.  Ognianoff, black 
with  powder  and  mud,  with  the  bullets  whistling  round  him, 
rose  every  moment  to  discharge  his  Martini,  and  then  sank 
down  again  into  the  trench. 

From  time  to  time  he  cried  without  turning  round  : 
*'  Let  'em  have  it !   fire  !  courage,  brothers  !  " 

Suddenly  he  heard  Father  Marin's  voice  near  him  ;  the 
old  man  was  saying  to  some  one  : 

"  Stoop  doAvn,  lad,  can't  you  ?  you'll  be  hit !  " 

Ognianoff  involuntarily  turned  to  the  right  and  saw 
through  the  smoke  an  insurgent  who  was  firing  away  at  the 
enemy,  bolt  upright,  and  completely  exposed  to  their  fire. 
Such  boldness  was  perfect  madness. 

Ognianoff,  to  his  surprise,  recognised  Kandoff. 

So  struck  was  he  that  he  went  mechanically  towards  him, 
and  held  out  his  hand  through  the  smoke,  saying  : 

"  Give  me  your  hand,  brother." 

The  student  turned,  threw  a  calm,  icy  look  at  Ognianoff, 
but  pressed  his  hand  warmly.  The  greeting  exchanged  by 
the  two  rivals  was  a  sign  of  reconciliation  before  their 
bleeding  country — ^perchance  an  eternal  farewell. 

A  drop  of  blood  fell  on  Ognianoff's  hand  as  he  held 
Kandoff 's — it  fiowed  from  the  student's  arm. 

Ognianoff  noticed  the  blood,  but  it  did  not  surprise  him, 

Q 


242  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

nor  did  he  think  at  all  about  it.    What  most  astonished  him 
was  Kandoff's  presence  there. 

In  truth  the  student,  who  had  been  sent  with  the 
reinforcement  on  the  previous  evening,  had  not  yet  been 
noticed  by  Ognianoff  in  his  feverish  excitement  and  agita- 
tion. Kandoff  was  the  nocturnal  somnambulist  who  had 
made  the  unsuccessful  attempt  at  suicide  with  his  eyes  fixed 
on  Rada's  dwelling. 

Ognianoff  turned  away  and  looked  round  him. 

He  then  saw  to  his  dismay  that  the  trenches  were  almost 
deserted.  The  insurgents  had  vanished  from  the  fort.  Only 
five  or  six  men  still  remained  and  kept  up  the  fire,  which 
was  gradually  dying  out  on  the  other  forts  as  well,  also 
deserted  by  their  defenders.  The  enemy's  bullets  now 
poured  in  still  more  frequently,  and  it  was  an  enterprise  of 
great  peril  to  show  one's  head  above  the  trenches. 

Ognianoff,  despairing,  beside  himself  with  rage,  main- 
tained with  his  few  brave  comrades  the  unequal  combat, 
resolved  to  die  at  his  post.  It  was  the  only  fort  which  still 
continued  to  fire. 

Suddenly  he  heard  a  sharp  cry  of  pain  beside  him. 

Ognianoff  looked  round  trembling.  Close  to  him  lay 
Vikenti,  lifeless.  A  stream  of  blood  was  pouring  from  his 
breast  and  reddening  the  earth  beside  him.  That  blood 
had  washed  away  his  disgrace. 

Father  Marin  carried  the  body  under  cover,  where  it  might 
be  taken  by  others  and  carried  into  the  to^^nri.  But  there 
was  no  one  there.    The  heights  were  deserted. 

A  deadly  silence  prevailed  in  the  empty  trenches.  Only 
a  few  shots  fired  now  and  again  from  the  still  garrisoned 
forts  to  the  north  and  west  of  the  town  made  an  echo, 
perfectly  useless  to  all  intent,  to  Ognianoff 's  fort,  which  now 
attracted  all  the  enemy's  bullets.  The  Turks  continued  to 
advance,  firing  unceasingly.  They  moved  cautiously 
through  the  vineyards  and  rose-gardens  which  were  still 
between  them  and  the  fort,  stooping  behind  every  chance 
shelter,  for  fear  of  a  sudden  attack  from  the  heights  above 
them.  One  by  one  they  reached  the  forts  deserted  in  the 
panic.  In  place  of  insurgents  or  their  bodies  they  found 
arms,  knapsacks,  cartridges,  and  other  munitions  of  war. 
They  found  even  the  cherry-tree  cannons  which  had  been 
carried  up  the  day  before — two  or  three  to  each  fort.  These 
were  still  loaded,  no  one  having  thought  of  firing  them  in  the 


RADA  243 

panic  of  the  moment :  this  was  also  the  case  in  Ognianoff's 
battery. 

The  Turks  had  now  reached  the  heights  over  the  town 
itself.  They  were  fired  at  from  the  streets — ^their  standard- 
bearer  and  another  fell.  But  the  fate  of  the  battle  and  of 
the  town  itself  was  now  decided  in  favour  of  Tossoun  Bey's 
horde.  They  poured  down  the  cliffs  towards  unhappy 
Klissoura  like  a  black  swarm  of  crows  upon  a  fresh  carcase, 

CHAPTER  XIX  :    RADA 

As  soon  as  the  first  shots  on  the  heights  above  Kfissoura 
announced  that  the  fateful  battle  had  begun,  the  towns- 
people, overcome  with  wild  panic,  began  to  flee  towards 
Koprivshtitsa,  through  the  Vrlishnitsa,  a  narrow  pass  over 
the  Sredna  Gora,  with  a  brook  of  the  same  name,  that 
eventually  joins  the  Stara  Reka,  flowing  through  it,  on  the 
south-west  side  of  the  town. 

Grospoja  Mouratliska,  in  whose  house  Rada  was  staying, 
hurriedly  collected  together  her  children  and  the  most 
precious  of  her  possessions  and  prepared  for  flight  with  the 
rest.  She  went  to  Rada  and  sought  to  persuade  her  to 
accompany  them.  But  in  spite  of  all  her  entreaties,  the 
girl  remained  firm.  She  refused  to  leave  the  house.  Kind 
Gospoja  MouratUska  besought  her,  on  her  knees,  with  tears 
in  her  eyes,  to  leav6  at  once  ;  she  could  not  abandon  her  to 
such  a  terrible  fate.  The  Turks  were  already  to  be  seen 
on  the  heights  over  the  town,  and  every  moment  was 
precious. 

"  You  go,  Anitsa  dear  ;  take  the  children,  but  leave  me 
alone,  I  beseech  you  !  "  cried  Rada,  urging  her  hostess 
to  fly. 

Gospoja  Mouratliska  looked  at  her  terrified.  She 
clasped  her  hands  in  despair.  Through  the  window  the 
Turks  could  be  seen  already  nearing  the  town.  She  did  not 
know  what  to  do. 

Evidently  it  was  only  despair  that  could  strengthen  Rada 
in  her  unreasoning  obstinacy  ;  and,  in  truth,  she  was  a  prey 
to  deep  despair. 

Since  that  terrible  encounter  between  Ognianofi  and  the 
student,  she  had  remained  overwhelmed  by  the  crushing 
contempt  of  her  lover.  In  her  agitation  she  was  unable  to 
justify  herself,  and  since  then  she  had  not  seen  him  again ; 


244  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

so  that  Ognianoff  still  persisted  in  his  terrible  infatuation, 
with  his  heart  filled  with  hatred  and  aversion  towards  her. 
If  he  was  killed  in  the  fight,  he  would  die  with  a  curse  on 
his  lips  and  with  cruel  sufferings  at  heart.  The  thought 
filled  her  with  dismay.  She  had  not  a  moment's  rest.  Her 
conscience  upbraided  her  for  doing  nothing  when  she  had  it 
in  her  power  to  comfort  and  convince  him.  The  poor 
fellow  would  die  resolutely,  desperately  ;  he  had  gone  to 
seek  death — he  was  not  afraid  of  it.  It  was  her  duty  at 
least  to  make  his  death  less  painful,  to  quiet  and  comfort 
him  wdth  the  thought  that  he  died  beloved  and  idolised. 
Perhaps  she  might  even  rescue  him  from  the  jaws  of  death, 
for  then  he  would  seek  death  no  longer.  She  might  pre- 
serve him  for  herself  and  for  the  country.  But  he  had  never 
once  come  down  into  the  town.  In  vain  she  had  tried 
several  times  on  various  pretexts  to  visit  the  trenches  and 
see  him  just  for  once,  even  though  she  drew  down  his 
wrathful  glance  on  her.  Access  to  the  fortifications  was 
ruthlessly  denied  her.  Her  only  consolation  lay  in  the 
visits  of  Staika,  Kill-the- Bear's  bride,  and  her  neighbour. 
Eall-the-Bear  had  three  times  come  down  to  the  town  on 
various  errands,  and  each  time  had  paid  his  wife  a  flying 
visit  and  brought  some  news  of  Ognianoff.  Thus  by  means 
of  Staika,  Rada  had  learnt  that  Ognianoff  was  well  in  health, 
though  much  dispirited  ;  but  that  was  all.  During  those 
six  days,  which  seemed  to  her  as  long  as  centuries,  her  love 
for  Boicho  increased  with  her  sufferings — ^he  was  so  brave 
and  so  unfortunate.  She  almost  worshipped  him  now.  He 
appeared  to  her  such  a  chivalrous  nature.  She  saw  him  in 
the  full  beauty  of  his  manhood,  armed,  and  with  the  aureole 
of  glory  round  his  brows,  meeting  death  on  those  heights 
yonder  with  a  bitter  smile  on  his  lips,  never  turning  back  to 
cast  one  last  look,  to  whisper  one  last  farewell  to  her  who 
could  not  live  without  him,  and  on  whom  he  had  trampled 
with  scorn.  The  night  before,  when  she  had  met  Ivan 
EaU-the-Bear  for  the  first  time,  she  had  been  unable  to 
restrain  her  feelings,  and  had  wept  bitterly  before  him.  The 
good  Ivan  had  consoled  her  as  best  he  could,  and  had  pro- 
mised to  take  a  letter  for  her  to  Boicho,  which  she  had  at 
once  hurriedly  scribbled  off  in  pencil.  (For  reasons  which 
we  have  already  seen  this  letter  reached  Ognianoff  only  as 
the  fight  began.)  But  she  had  not  received  any  reply,  not 
even  a  verbal  message  ;  and  her  grief  and  despair  knew  no 


RADA  245 

bounds.  She  felt  that  life  would  be  impossible  for  her  if 
Boicho  should  carry  his  scorn  with  him  to  the  grave,  to 
which  she  had  so  evidently  driven  him.  Life  appeared  to 
her  hateful,  since  the  source  of  love  and  happiness  was  now 
eternally  dried  up.  What  was  now  left  to  her  ?  Hopeless 
sufferings,  bitter  sorrow,  the  contempt  of  the  world,  and 
despair — everlasting  despair.  What  was  her  life  worth  now  ? 
To  whom  could  she  turn  without  humbling  herself  to  the 
dust  ?  Bela  Cherkva  now  appeared  to  her  black  and 
hideous  as  the  grave.  Should  she  go  and  abase  herself 
before  Hajji  E-ovoama  again  ?  or  go  and  beg  Marko  to 
protect  her  ?  She  would  have  died  with  shame  rather  than 
face  that  good  man  now.  He  had  surely  heard  foul 
calumnies  about  her,  and  doubtless  regretted  the  good  he 
had  done  her.  No,  no,  Boicho  alone  could  console  her  and 
save  her,  and  he  would  die  up  there  !  This  Mouratliska 
was  quite  right  in  her  desire  to  live.  She  had  something  to 
live  for  ;  she  had  some  one  to  mourn  for  her,  for  there  was 
some  one  who  loved  her.  But  she,  Rada  !  She  could  not 
bear  the  burden  of  her  unhappiness  ;  she  was  too  weak. 
She  had  nothing  left  in  this  cruel  world,  to  which  no  ties 
now  united  her.  Yes,  but  if  Boicho  survived  ?  How 
terribly  he  would  despise  her  for  not  being  able  to  justify 
herself  !  All  the  appearances  were  against  her.  His  wounded 
vanity  could  not  pardon  her.  The  blow  dealt  to  his  heart 
and  to  his  pride  was  a  crushing  one,  and  Boicho  would 
never,  never  see  her  again.  She  knew  that  he  was  not  to  be 
moved  on  the  point  of  honour.  No,  no,  she  must  die 
Now  she  might  meet  an  easy  and  even  a  glorious  death 
under  the  ruins,  the  noble  ruins,  of  that  heroic  town.  Let 
Gospoja  Mouratliska  go  her  way  ;  she  would  stay  there  to 
die  !  Yes  !  since  Boicho  had  not  bidden  her  to  live — had 
not  honoured  her  with  a  single  word  of  response — she  must 
die.  And  if  death  should  spare  him,  let  him  know  that 
Rada  was  an  honest  girl,  that  the  Bulgarian  maiden  does 
not  fear  death,  and  that  she  had  sacrificed  herself  to  her 
love  for  him. 

These  or  such  as  these  were  the  thoughts,  begotten  of 
despair,  in  a  tender  and  sentimental  soul,  overwhelmed  with 
grief,  which  hovered  like  clouds  in  poor  Rada's  head  while 
Gospoja  Mouratliska  begged  and  entreated  her  with  tears 
to  follow  her.     But  Rada  was  immovable. 

At  that  moment  cries  were  heard  in  the  street,    Gospoja 


246  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

Mouratliska  looked  out  of  the  window :    she  saw  the  in- 
surgents in  full  flight ;  she  called  to  one  of  them  : 

"  Why,  Christo,  what's  going  on  up  there  ?  Where's 
Ognianoff  ?     Where  are  you  all  running  to  ?  " 

The  insurgent  replied,  panting  : 

"  It's  all  over,  Anichka,  we're  done  for  !  Ognianoff — ^he's 
still  there,  poor  fellow  !  The  whole  world's  topsy-turvy. 
Fly  at  once  towards  the  VrUshnitsa  !  "  and  the  insurgents 
vanished  from  view.  Evidently  Christo  was  from  Ognia- 
nofiE's  fort.  Rada  shrieked  like  a  madwoman.  Then 
Gospoja  MouratHska,  seeing  that  all  efforts  were  useless, 
left  the  house. 

It  was  high  time,  for  not  long  after  Rada  heard  women's 
despairing  shrieks  from  the  northern  side  of  the  town,  which 
was  now  overrun  by  the  Turks.  As  she  stood  overwhelmed 
with  grief  and  terror  she  saw  from  the  window  a  crowd  of 
bashi-bozouks  rushing  down  a  street  with  drawn  swords  in 
their  hands  :  they  caught  up  two  Bulgarians,  who  were  at 
once  cut  down.  She  saw  perfectly  plainly  a  red  flood 
gushing  from  the  fallen.  She  saw  death — terrible  death,  in 
its  most  repulsive  form,  and  was  seized  with  wild  fear.  The 
desire  of  life  awoke  with  redoubled  force  in  the  young  girl, 
and  overcame  all  other  feelings,  paralysed  all  her  resolutions 
to  die  with  which  despair  had  inspired  her. 

She  attempted  to  escape,  to  save  herself  from  death,  or 
from  the  life  these  lewd  and  bloodthirsty  assailants  might 
have  granted  her.  She  opened  the  door  to  fly  downstairs, 
but  at  that  moment  she  heard  the  door  of  the  courtyard 
burst  open  with  a  loud  crash  and  through  the  branches  of 
the  fruit-trees  she  saw  an  armed  basbi-bozouk  followed  by 
another  figure  hurrying  towards  the  stairs  on  which  she  was 
standing  transfixed  with  terror.  She  turned,  fled  back  to 
the  room,  bolted  the  door,  and  half  dead  with  terror  tried  to 
conceal  herself  in  the  opposite  comer.  She  had  scarcely 
done  so  when  a  loud  knock  was  heard  at  the  door  and  a 
fierce  frightful  voice  began  to  roar  outside.  As  the  door 
was  not  opened  the  person  who  sought  to  enter  began  to 
kick  and  hammer  at  the  door.  Gradually  it  cracked  and 
yielded  on  one  side  :  the  barrel  of  a  gun  immediately 
protruded  through  the  chink,  and  the  door  began  to  be 
forced  open.  Rada  heard  the  boards  crack  as  they  yielded, 
she  saw  an  enormous  foot  pushing  its  Wiay  through ;  the 
assailant  was  almost  in  the  room. 


THE  TWO  STREAMS  247 

Then  inexpressible  terror  overcame  all  her  other  thoughts. 
Death  appeared  to  her  a  thousand  times  preferable  to  the 
terrible  moment  which  was  approaching.  She  flew  to  the 
eikonostasis,  lighted  a  taper  at  the  lamp  burning  before  it, 
and  hurried  to  the  comer.  There  on  the  table  stood  a  sack 
of  gunpowder  which  had  evidently  been  forgotten  by  the 
insurgents.  Rada  sat  down  beside  it,  took  the  taper  in  her 
left  hand,  and  with  her  right  thumb  began  to  force  open 
the  mouth  of  the  sack  :  she  soon  penetrated  the  coarse 
sacking. 

Just  then  the  door  fell  to  the  ground  with  a  loud  crash 
and  a  giantic  figure  burst  into  the  room. 

Ivan  Kill-the-Bear  stood  before  her. 

Behind  him  was  Staika. 

Rada  did  not  see  them — she  approached  the  candle  to 
the  gunpowder. 

CHAPTER  XX  :  THE  TWO  STREAMS 

At  that  very  moment  Ognianoff  was  far  off  in  the  mountain. 

He  was  the  last  to  leave  the  fort,  the  rampart  of  which 
the  Turks  were  already  scaling  :  he  had  escaped  death  by 
a  miracle  :  his  cap  had  been  pierced  in  two  places.  He 
sought  for  death,  but  the  instinct  of  self-preservation, 
stronger  than  any  other  feeling,  had  saved  him. 

Now  he  stood  on  the  summit  of  the  Vrilshnitsa,  on  its 
left  ridge,  beneath  which  flowed  the  streamlet. 

Tears  were  coursing  down  his  blackened,  blood-stained 
face.     Ognianoff  was  weeping. 

He  had  stopped  to  see  the  terrible  picture  of  the  wreck 
of  the  revolution.     He  was  bareheaded. 

Below  him  in  the  valley  a  panic-stricken  throng  of 
insurgents,  women,  and  children  fled  with  wild  terror 
towards  the  mountain.  The  shrieks  and  groans  of  these 
unfortunates  were  clearly  audible  where  he  stood. 

On  the  opposite  rock  EUissoura  in  flames  lay  before  him. 

Suddenly  his  glance  fell  on  his  right  hand,  which  was 
blood-stained.  He  remembered  that  the  blood  was 
Kandoff's.  And  Kandoff  reminded  him  of  Rada.  His 
hair  stood  on  end  ;  he  sought  in  his  pocket  and  drew 
out  Rada's  crumpled  letter,  which  he  opened. 

He  read  the  following  lines,  written  in  pencil  in  a  weak 
and  trembling  hand  : 


248  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  Boicho  !  You  left  me  in  scorn.  I  cannot  live  without 
you.  I  entreat  you  to  send  me  one  word  in  reply.  If  you 
wish  it,  I  will  live — I  am  innocent.  Do  answer  me. 
Boicho,  I'm  suffering  agonies.  If  you  won't,  then  fare- 
well, farewell,  beloved  ;  I  shall  find  a  grave  beneath  the 
ruins  of  KHssoura.  Had  a." 

Inexpressible  pain  was  depicted  on  Ognianoff's  counte- 
nance. He  glanced  towards  the  town,  where  the  flames  were 
spreading  rapidly.  At  different  points  of  the  town  fresh 
flames  were  bursting  from  the  roofs  ;  their  pale  red  tongues 
shot  out  and  seemed  to  be  licking  the  air.  Dense  black 
smoke  rolled  behind  the  town  and  mingled  with  the  clouds 
which  had  now  covered  the  sky  :  this  made  it  grow  dark 
earlier.  The  flames  spread  with  great  rapidity  on  every 
side.  Their  ruddy  glare  lighted  up  the  valley,  the  slopes  of 
the  Ribaritsa,  and  the  waters  of  the  Stara  Reka.  Ognianoff 
was  trying  to  distinguish  the  two-storeyed  house  where 
Gospoja  MouratUska  lived.  He  soon  found  it  out  and 
recognised  with  terror  the  two  windows  of  Rada's  room. 
The  fire  had  not  yet  spread  to  the  house,  but  around  it 
aU  was  ablaze,  and  it  would  soon  be  in  flames. 

"  Poor  girl,  she's  there  !   oh  !  it's  horrible,  horrible  !  " 

And  he  flung  himself  down  the  slope  towards  the  stream. 
He  rushed  madly  do\vn  the  ravines  and  thickets  and  sped 
back  towards  the  mouth  of  the  stream,  towards  KHssoura. 

The  narrow  pass  of  the  Vrlishnitsa  was  blocked  by 
fugitives  of  every  sex,  age,  and  condition.  That  terrified 
human  mass,  extending  along  the  whole  course  of  the  river, 
resembled  another  stream  flowing  in  the  opposite  direction. 
The  panic  had  in  an  hour  emptied  Klissoura  and  filled  the 
mountain  pass.  Every  one  fled  panting  and  panic-stricken, 
as  if  the  pursuer  was  already  close  behind.  Some  had 
hastily  snatched  up  a  few  clothes  as  they  fled,  others  carried 
various  articles  of  furniture  or  other  household  goods, 
sometimes  most  useless  and  cumbersome.  The  effect  was 
occasionally  almost  comic.  Thus  a  wealthy  citizen  who 
had  left  house  and  home  was  flying  with  a  large  Dutch 
clock  under  his  arm.  Further  on  a  woman  was  carrying 
her  sieve,  which  considerably  impeded  her  flight.  Old 
women  and  girls  might  be  seen  flying  barefoot  over  the 
rocks  and  carrying  their  shoes  in  their  hands,  so  as  not  to 
soil  them.     Ognianoff  at  every  moment  came  into  collision 


THE  TWO  STREAMS  249 

with  these  terrified  groups,  or  tripped  over  women  who  had 
fallen  fainting  to  the  ground,  and  were  shrieking  desperately 
without  any  one  coming  to  their  aid.  He  saw  all  these 
horrors  as  he  fled  wildly  towards  the  town,  bareheaded  and 
bewildered  with  only  one  thought — to  save  Rada.  In- 
stinctively he  sought  her  among  the  fear-distorted  faces  of 
the  women  and  girls  whom  he  met,  but  in  vain — he  fled 
on  again.  These  people  were  strangers  to  him — they  were 
phantoms — they  did  not  exist  for  him.  He  could  not  even 
understand  why  they  were  flying — he  did  not  think  about 
them,  nor  did  they  think  about  him — no  one  wondered  or 
asked  why  he  was  going  back  when  they  were  all  going 
forward.  At  every  step  the  scenes  of  horror  became  more 
frequent  and  more  terrible.  At  a  turning  in  the  pass  he 
saw  a  little  girl  who  had  been  thrown  down  in  her  flight 
and  had  fallen  into  the  river,  where  she  lay  shrieking 
wildly  for  aid.  Further  on  a  baby  was  crying  bitterly  for 
its  mother,  who  had  apparently  deserted  it  as  an  encum- 
brance in  her  flight.  Old  women,  men,  mothers  passed  by 
the  poor  creature,  but  no  one  saw  or  heard  it.  Every  one 
thought  only  of  himseK.  Fear  hardens  the  heart  and  is  the 
highest  and  most  loathsome  form  of  egoism.  Shame  itself 
does  not  so  abase  the  human  countenance  as  terror. 
Ognianoff  mechanically  stooped,  picked  up  the  child,  and 
went  on  his  way.  In  a  thicket  at  the  side  of  the  path  a 
woman  lay  groaning  in  travail  with  a  face  distorted  with 
suffering.  She  held  out  her  hands  to  implore  the  passers-by 
for  aid.  Groans,  piercing  shrieks,  and  the  waihng  of 
children  filled  the  air.  As  if  to  crown  all  this  misery  rain 
began  to  pour  in  torrents.  The  storm  increased  in  fury 
every  moment :  foaming  streams  soon  flowed  down  the 
slopes  towards  the  river,  drenching  the  feet  of  the  unhappy 
fugitives,  while  the  rain  beat  against  their  faces  and  soaked 
their  garments  ;  children  dragged  along  by  their  mothers 
uttered  heartrending  shrieks  as  they  slipped  and  fell  in  the 
torrent.  The  cries  and  lamentations  grew  louder  and  louder. 
The  rocks  on  each  side  of  the  pass  reverberated  the 
wild  echo,  to  which  the  roar  of  the  swollen  river  was  now 
added.  Suddenly  Ognianoff  recognised  a  woman  in  an 
approaching  group  of  fugitives — the  first  person  he  had 
noticed  in  that  procession.  It  was  Gospoja  Mouratliska, 
with  one  baby  in  her  arms,  and  three  older  children  follow- 
ing behind. 


250  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  Where  is  Rada  ?  ''  he  asked. 

She  was  unable  to  speak,  and  could  only  point  in  the 
direction  of  the  town. 

"  In  your  house  ?  " 

"  Yes,  yes,  make  haste,"  she  could  hardly  mutter. 

Weak  as  she  was,  Gospoja  Mouratliska  kept  on  her  way 
energetically,  though  her  face  showed  how  exhausted  she 
was  by  the  almost  impassable  path.  But  energy  replaced 
muscular  force  with  her,  and  she  had  inspired  her  children 
with  it. 

"  Where  are  you  carrying  that  child  to  ?  "  she  asked  in  a 
faint  voice,  scarcely  audible  in  the  turmoil. 

Ognianoff  looked  down .  He  hardly  knew  he  was  carrying 
the  child,  and  had  no  recollection  of  having  picked  it  up. 

He  looked  at  Gospoja  Mouratliska,  bewildered. 

"  Give  it  to  me,  give  it  to  me." 

And  she  took  the  child  from  Ognianoff,  pressed  it  to 
the  left  side  of  her  dripping  breast,  on  the  right  side  of 
which  nestled  her  own  child,  and  went  on.  It  was  quite 
dark  when  OgnianofE  reached  the  mouth  of  the  Vrlishnitsa. 

From  there  the  whole  of  Klissoura  was  visible.  The 
rain  had  extinguished  most  of  the  fires,  but  here  and 
there  flames  still  flickered  under  the  roofs  and  threw 
from  the  windows  a  lurid  glare  upon  the  town.  Now 
and  then  a  house  would  fall  in  with  a  loud  crash,  and  the 
flames  shot  out  and  spread  to  other  houses.  Suddenly 
Ognianoff  saw  a  new  fire  break  out  in  the  southern  part 
of  the  town.  Great  flames  and  showers  of  sparks  burst 
forth  and  scattered  in  every  direction.  Ognianofl  recog- 
nised Gospoja  Mouratliska 's  house  in  the  midst  of  the 
flames  :  just  then  the  upper  storey  fell  in  with  a  cloud 
of  flames  and  yellow  smoke.     Rada's  room  was  there  ! 

He  flung  himself  like  a  madman  into  the  flaming  streets, 
filled  with  infuriated  Turks,  and  was  lost  to  sight. 


PART  III 

CHAPTER  I :    A  RETROSPECT 

In  a  few  days  the  insurrection  *  was  everywhere  stamped 
out. 

The  contest  died  away — its  place  was  taken  by  panic  fear. 
The  revolution  ended  in  capitulation.  History  furnishes 
examples  of  risings  as  sacred  and  as  ill-fated,  but  of  none 
so  tragically  inglorious. 

The  April  insurrection  was  like  a  still-bom  child,  con- 
ceived under  the  impulse  of  the  most  ardent  love,  and 
stifled  by  its  mother  in  horror  at  its  birth.  It  expired  before 
it  was  born. 

The  insurrection  has  no  history — it  was  too  short-hved 
for  that. 

Golden  hopes,  profound  faith,  gigantic  strength  and  en- 
thusiasm, the  heritaeg  of  centuries  of  suffering,  all  vanished 
in  a  moment.     It  was  a  terrible  awakening. 

And  how  many  martyrs  it  caused — how  many  victims — 
how  many  deaths  and  downfalls  !  Ay  !  and  some  slight 
heroism — but  what  heroism  ! 

Peroushtitsa  was  its  Saragoza.  But  Peroushtitsa  has  no 
place  in  the  history  of  the  world. 

Batak  !  f  that  is  the  only  name  which  has  shone  out  amid 
the  struggle  ;  out  of  the  flames  and  the  smoke  it  has 
blazed  forth  over  the  whole  world,  and  has  perpetuated  its 
memory  among  the  nations. 

Batak — a  worthy  characteristic  of  our  revolt :  fate  some- 
time perpetrates  such  puns.t  But  if  the  rising  gave  us 
Batak,  it  also  raised  up  for  us  Alexander  II. 

If  this  movement,  and  its  ill-fated  results,  had  not  brought 
on  the  war  of  liberation,  then  it  would  have  been  pitilessly 

*  The  three  places  where  the  revolutionary  movement  was  most 
serious  were  :  Panaghiourishte  (in  Turkish  Otlouk  Keui),  Koprivshtitsa 
(in  Turkish  Avrat  Alan),  and  Peroushtitsa.  According  to  the  official 
report  by  Mr.  Baring  (see  the  Blue  Book,  issued  in  1877,  p.  149),  at 
Panaghiourishte  760  Bulgarians  were  killed,  14  Mussulmans  having 
been  slain  there  at  the  beginning  of  the  outbreak  ;  at  Koprivshtitsa,  130 
Bulgarians  fell,  while  72  Mussulmans  were  first  kUled ;  Peroushtitsa, 
after  some  resistance,  was  captured  and  burnt  by  Rashid  Pasha  on  May 
12,  1876  ;  750  Bulgarians  are  officially  reported  to  have  fallen  there. 

f  At  Batak  the  terrible  massacre  of  almost  the  entire  population  was 
treacherously  efifected  by  Ahmed  Aga  of  Tumrush. 

1  The  Turkish  word  "  Batak  "  means  a  snare,  a  pitfall :  lit,  marah. 

261 


252  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

condemned  on  all  sides  ;  common  sense  would  have  stig- 
matised it  as  folly  ;  nations  would  have  set  it  down  as  a 
disgrace,  and  history — a  meretricious  harlot  that  bows  only 
before  success — would  have  branded  it  as  a  crime.  Poetry 
alone  might  have  forgiven  it  and  crowned  it  with  the  laurel 
of  the  hero,  in  memory  of  the  patriotic  infatuation  which 
urged  the  humble  AnatoUan  cloth- workers  to  take  their  stand 
on  the  heights  of  the  Sredna  Gora — those  sublime  heights  ! 
— with  their  hollow  cherry-tree  cannon. 

It  was  a  poetic  folly  :    for  young  nations,  like  young 

people,  are  poetical. 

***** 

Ognianoff  had  for  three  days  and  three  nights  been 
wandering  upon  the  Starna  Planina.  He  kept  on  towards 
the  east,  so  as  to  reach  Bela  Cherkva,  being  quite  ignorant 
of  what  was  going  on  there.  It  is  a  six  hours'  journey  from 
Klissoura  in  ordinary  times,  but  for  a  rebel  flying  from  the 
gallows  sixty  hours  are  insufficient. 

During  the  day  Ognianoff  crouched  in  the  woods  and 
thickets  ;  he  slept  in  copses  of  trees,  like  a  wild  beast,  to 
avoid  being  seen  by  the  patrols  ;  and  at  night  he  wandered 
along  the  dark  and  deserted  paths,  at  random — sometimes 
going  backward  instead  of  forward .  He  lived  on  grass — that 
is  to  say,  he  was  as  hungry  as  a  woK.  He  did  not  dare  to  beg 
for  hospitality  at  the  sparsely  scattered  huts  on  the  Balkan 
— the  probabihty  was  only  too  great  thatjhe  would  be  roughly 
repulsed,  through  terror,  or  else  betrayed  to  the  Turks. 

Often  as  he  shivered  on  some  mountain  peak  he  could 
see  a  red  glare  in  the  sky,  to  the  south.  First  of  all  he  took 
this  celestial  phenomenon  to  be  the  after-glow  of  the  sunset. 
But  as  night  went  on  the  glare  became  still  brighter  and 
extended  over  a  still  wider  horizon.  It  was  like  the 
reflection  of  an  aurora  borealis  appearing  in  the  south. 

It  was  caused  by  the  flames  that  reduced  many  a 
flourishing  village  to  ashes. 

It  was  a  terrible  but  majestic  sight. 

Through  a  gap  in  the  Balkan  the  view  to  the  south 
became  more  extensive.  Ognianoff  saw  with  horror  that 
the  Sredna  Gora  was  in  flames.  It  was  like  a  volcano 
emitting  fire  from  twenty  craters  at  once.  The  whole 
firmament  was  lit  up  by  the  fires. 

Ognianoff  tore  out  his  hair. 

"  It's  the  ruin,  the  ruin  of  Bulgaria  !  "  he  said  in  despair 


A  SHEPHERD'S  HOSPITALITY  253 

as  he  saw  the  flames.  "  This  is  the  result  of  our  sacred 
efforts.  This  is  what  our  ardent  hopes  have  come  to  :  blood 
and  fire  !  My  God  !  my  God  !  And  there,"  he  added, 
pointing  towards  Klissoura,  "  there  my  heart  lies  under  the 
ruins.  My  two  ideals  were  scattered  at  the  same  time — ^the 
two  idols  I  worshipped.  I  am  like  a  lifeless  phantom,  that 
cannot  find  its  grave  !  " 

He  resembled,  if  not  a  phantom,  a  skeleton.  To  every 
sheepfold  and  Bulgarian  hut  strict  instructions  had  been 
given  not  to  afford  hospitality  to  any  suspicious-looking 
wayfarer.  The  Bulgarians  did  even  more  :  they  pursued  all 
such  and  hastened  to  inform  the  patrol ;  indeed,  their  zeal 
often  went  so  far  that  they  finished  off  with  a  bullet  some 
wounded  or  half-starved  insurgent.  A  fortnight  before, 
these  same  shepherds  had  welcomed  the  apostles  as  the 
dearest  of  guests.  The  Stara  Planina,  that  kindly  mother 
of  brave  lads  sung  of  in  many  a  brigand  song  and  old 
legend,  proved  herself  a  cruel  stepmother.  The  panic  and 
cowardly  baseness  of  cities  and  villages  bad  migrated  to  her 
most  deserted  glades,  and  taken  up  their  abode  in  her 
brigand  fastnesses  and  wildest  solitudes. 

CHAPTER  n  :    A  SHEPHERD'S  HOSPITALITY 

That  night  Ognianoff  slept  in  a  thicket  which  covered  the 
northern  slope  of  one  of  the  spurs  to  the  east  of  the  bare 
Ribaritsa. 

He  was  emaciated  by  hunger  and  exhaustion — he  had 
eaten  nothing  but  grass  and  herbs  during  those  three  days, 
and  a  hundred  yards  away  he  could  see  a  sheepfold,  where 
bread,  cheese,  and  milk  were  to  be  had.  He  was  in  the 
position  of  Tantalus,  condemned  to  eternal  thirst  before  a 
cold  stream  of  which  he  could  not  drink. 

But  the  wolf  never  dies  of  starvation  when  there  is  a  flock 
of  sheep  to  attack.  The  teeth  of  the  watchdogs  are  not  so 
sharp  as  the  pangs  of  hunger.  Ognianoff  resolved  to  follow 
the  wolf's  example.  He  left  the  thicket,  crossed  the  brook, 
and  walked  firmly  towards  the  shepherd's  hut. 

There  were  two  women  in  the  hut,  the  shepherd's  mother 
and  his  wife,  mending  clothes,  and  two  boys,  engaged  in 
plaiting  something.  The  dogs  were  probably  with  the  herd 
somewhere  close  by. 

The   women  screamed   when   they   saw  this   stranger, 


254  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

bareheaded,  blood-stained,  with  his  eyes  starting  from  his 
head. 

"  What  do  you  want  ?  "  cried  some  one  from  outside. 

A  tall,  grey-haired  old  shepherd  appeared  with  his  gun  on 
his  shoulder. 

Ognianoff  recognised  him  as  the  Greek  shepherd  Yani, 
who  often  came  down  to  Bela  Cherkva  to  sell  his  butter,  and 
who  knevv^  him  quite  well. 

"  Good  morning,  Master  Yani ;  give  me  a  piece  of  bread, 
in  God's  name,"  said  Boicho  hurriedly,  to  show  his  pacific 
intentions. 

The  shepherd  examined  him  from  head  to  foot.  Whether 
he  recognised  him  or  not,  the  scrutiny  seemed  to  displease 
him.  He  entered  the  hut  with  a  frown,  broke  off  haK  a  cake 
of  bread,  and  at  the  same  time  whispered  something  to  one 
of  the  boys. 

"  There,  you'd  better  be  off,  or  there'll  be  trouble. 
Some  one'U  see  you  here.  Christian,"  he  said  sternly,  as  he 
gave  Ognianoff  the  bread. 

Ognianoff  thanked  him,  and  hurried  towards  the  stream 
to  hide  himseff  again  in  the  thicket  where  he  had  spent  the 
night. 

"  My  God  !  "  he  thought  to  himself  with  bitterness,  "  this 
half -savage  Greek  had  pity  on  me,  while  the  Bulgarians 
drove  me  from  their  huts  yesterday  with  their  dogs,  like  a 
wild  beast." 

Ognianoff  swallowed  his  bread  hurriedly  and  greedily, 
while  his  eyes  lighted  up  with  eagerness.  Famine  had 
dimmed  the  noble  fire  of  his  glance,  which  had  become  dull 
and  fierce  as  a  beast's.  At  that  moment  Ognianoff  would 
have  refused  to  share  his  bread  with  his  father,  for  hunger 
is  a  more  savage  counsellor  than  despair  itself. 

Boicho  quenched  his  thirst  at  the  stream,  and  began  to 
make  his  way  up  the  slope  towards  the  thicket.  He  felt 
the  beneficent  action  of  the  food  ;  his  forces  seemed  to  be 
returning.  But  just  as  he  had  reached  the  cover  the  sound 
of  distant  voices  made  him  turn  round.  From  the  hill  on 
which  the  sheepfold  stood,  a  band  of  Circassians  were  rush- 
ing towards  him,  and  beckoning  to  him  to  stop.  Before 
them  ran  several  dogs.  (As  is  well  known,  the  patrols  at 
this  terrible  time  consisted  chiefly  of  Circassians,  who  were 
accompanied  by  hounds  trained  to  follow  the  track  of  a  man 
and  to  hurl  themselves  at  him.)     On  the  top  of  the  hill  stood 


A  SHEPHERD'S  HOSPITALITY  255 

Master  Yani,  in  his  white  wrapper  of  coarse  homespun, 
watching  with  curiosity  the  chase  he  had  prepared  ;  for, 
while  breaking  off  the  piece  of  bread  he  had  given  the  fugi- 
tive, he  had  sent  his  boy  to  give  notice  to  the  nearest  patrol. 

Hospitality  and  treachery — these  two  harmonised  simul- 
taneously with  the  cunning  nature  of  that  semi-savage 
nomad.  He  had  carried  out  both  with  perfect  conscien- 
tiousness. In  feeding  the  hungry  he  had  accomplished  a 
duty  of  humanity  ;  in  betraying  the  rebel  he  had  relieved 
himself  of  all  unpleasant  consequences.  He  now  watched 
the  result  quietly. 

Ognianoff  saw  the  danger  that  awaited  him.  With  his 
unfailmg  presence  of  mind,  which  so  often  deserts  one  at 
moments  of  danger,  he  began  to  calculate  his  chances. 
Across  the  stream  there  was  a  sHght  acclivity  which  might 
conceal  him  for  a  minute  or  two  from  the  eyes  of  the  patrol 
while  they  rushed  down  the  slope  on  the  other  side.  During 
that  time  he  might  gain  the  thicket ;  but  that  would  avail 
him  nothing — they  would  soon  reach  him  there.  It  was 
hopeless  to  attempt  to  escape  by  flight  from  the  bullets 
and  the  hounds.  In  the  brook  itself  there  were  low  bushes 
between  the  two  steep  banks ;  but  he  could  not  conceal 
himself  there,  for,  even  if  he  escaped  the  notice  of  his 
pursuers,  the  dogs  would  soon  find  him  out.  Everywhere 
there  was  destruction  for  him  !  But  there  was  no  time  to 
hesitate — he  must  make  up  his  mind.  Instinctively  he 
chose  the  brook,  and  dashed  dowai  the  slope  like  lightning. 
In  a  moment  he  was  wading  among  the  bushes  in  the 
brook,  the  banks  of  which  were  rocky.  At  the  foot  of  the 
rock  deep  cavities  gaped,  as  if  they  had  been  dug  out. 
Ognianoff  crept  into  one  of  these  lairs,  and  determined  to 
sell  his  life  dearly. 

For  some  seconds  he  listened,  revolver  in  hand  :  those 
seconds  seemed  hours.  The  barking  approached — then  grew 
fainter,  and  gradually  died  away.  He  waited.  What  could 
this  mean  ?  The  patrol  had  evidently  lost  his  track,  but 
not  for  long.  Ognianoff  guessed  that  they  were  looking  for 
him  in  the  thicket,  and  that,  not  finding  him  there,  they 
would  naturally  search  the  stream,  where  the  dogs  w  ould  at 
once  discover  him.  The  animals'  instinct  would  not  be  at 
fault  a  second  time.  How  long  his  agony  of  anxiety  lasted 
he  never  knew.  His  eyes  were  fixed  on  the  stream,  with  its 
scanty  bushes  which  rustled  in  the  water.    Every  moment 


256  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

he  expected  to  see  the  muzzles  of  the  hounds — the  animal 
seemed  to  be  fatal  to  him — ^plunged  into  the  cave  where  he 
was,  or  to  hear  their  bay. 

Suddenly  he  heard  a  dog  bark.  His  eyes  swelled  out  and 
grew  fierce  ;  his  hair  stood  on  end  ;  he  clutched  his  revolver 
convulsively. 


CHAPTER  III :    TO  THE  NORTH 

The  barking  which  Ognianoff  had  heard  close  by  to  the 
right  was  not  repeated.  It  was  replaced  by  another  sound, 
the  sound  of  human  footsteps.  Several  men  were  coming 
that  way,  down  the  hill,  for  the  ravine  crumbled  beneath 
their  feet,  and  pebbles  rolled  down  to  the  very  mouth  of  the 
cave  where  the  fugitive  was  secreted.  Soon  he  saw  two 
sandalled  feet  pass  by  the  opening — two  more  followed,  and 
were  succeeded  by  a  third  pair  :  these  all  passed  silently  and 
noiselessly.  Yet  a  fourth  appeared.  But  instead  of  going 
by  he  stopped  and  stooped  down.  Ognianoff  saw  the 
profile  of  an  enormous  elongated  head — the  head  of  a 
gorilla  :  the  owner  of  the  head  was  tying  up  the  fastening  of 
his  sandal,  which  had  become  loose  and  was  dragging. 

Ognianoff  remained  like  a  statue,  with  his  revolver 
pointed  towards  the  outlet. 

The  head  looked  into  the  cave  :  then  it  was  raised,  and  a 
shrill  whistle  sounded.  This  was  evidently  a  signal  for  the 
others  to  return. 

The  head  again  bent  down  and  peeped  in — Ognianoff 
resolved  to  fire. 

"  Who's  there  ?  "  asked  a  sonorous  voice. 

*'  Ivan  !  "  cried  Ognianoff,  thunderstruck. 

For  in  truth  it  was  Ivan  Kill- the- Bear. 

"  Why,  it's  the  teacher  !  "  cried  the  others,  who  had  now 
come  up.  Ivan  KjiU-the- Bear,  without  waiting  to  be  asked, 
crawled  into  the  cave  and  pressed  Ognianoff's  hands  with 
tears  in  his  eyes.  The  other  three  followed.  They  were  all 
from  Klissoura. 

Boicho's  first  question  was :  "  What  was  that  dog 
barking  ?  " 

The  Klissouriots  answered  : 

"  There  wasn't  any  dog — it  was  Kill-the-Bear.'* 

Ognianoff  smiled  as  he  remembered  the  giant's  pecu- 
liarity.   He  assailed  them  with  questions. 


TO  THE  NORTH  257 

"  We've  made  a  pretty  mess  of  it  God  bless  its  soul," 
sighed  Kill-the-Bear  in  a  voice  of  thunder. 

"  Courage,  Ivan  my  boy  !    Grod  won't  desert  Bulgaria  !  " 

"  Yes,  but  Klissoura's  done  for,"  declared  one  of  the 
Klissourists,  gloomily. 

"  There's  nothing  left  of  it  but  ashes,"  added  the  second. 

"  Dear  !  dear  !  "  sighed  the  other. 

"  What's  the  good  of  crying  over  it  now,  brothers  ?  We 
did  our  best — and  failed.  Courage  and  patience.  Our 
sacrifices  won't  have  been  useless.  .  .  .  Have  you  had 
anything  to  eat  ?  " 

"  We  haven't  seen  a  piece  of  bread  since  we  took  to  the 
mountain,"  answered  one  of  them,  almost  tearfully. 
Indeed,  there  was  no  need  to  say  it :  Ognianoff  saw  their 
famished  and  emaciated  countenances.  He  divided  what 
was  left  of  his  bread  and  gave  it  to  his  three  guests. 

They  fell  to  ravenously.     Only  Kill-the-Bear  declined. 

*'  Keep  the  bread  for  yourself — you  want  it.  I've  got  my 
dinner  here  ;  "  and  Eall-the-Bear  took  from  his  bag  a  hare, 
skinned  and  bloody.  He  puUed  off  a  piece,  dipped  it  in 
the  salt,  and  began  to  devour  it  with  his  sharp  teeth. 

"  Yes,  but  it's  raw  ?  " 

"  Raw  or  not,  it's  all  one  to  a  hungry  man.  Flying 
rebels  can't  light  fires,"  said  Kill-the-Bear,  as  he  munched 
the  tough  flesh.  "  These  Christians  turn  up  their  noses  at 
meat ;  they'd  rather  feed  on  grass,  like  tortoises,"  he  added, 
wiping  the  hare's  blood  from  his  lips. 

"  How  did  you  kill  the  hare  ?  Did  you  fire  at  it  ?  "  asked 
Boicho  with  some  curiosity. 

"  I  killed  the  hare  because  1  didn't  fall  in  with  a  wild 
boar  ;  if  I  had,  I'd  have  caught  that  and  throttled  it." 

In  truth,  Kill-the-Bear  had  surprised  and  caught  the  hare 
in  a  thicket,  without  firing  at  it. 

"  But  what  made  you  get  into  that  bear-pit  ?  "  asked  the 
giant,  looking  round  the  cavern. 

"  There  was  a  Circassian  patrol  after  me,  and  how  they 
lost  my  trail  I  can't  think  :  they  had  dogs  with  them." 

"  Oh,  that's  why  you  asked  about  the  barking,  is  it  ? 
Well,  the  dogs  must  have  come  upon  the  scent  of  some  other 
game — a  hare,  likely ;  take  my  wordf  or  it,  they  went  after  that. 
Kill-the-Bearknowssomethingof  that  kind  of  thing.  ..." 

"  That  must  be  the  heathens  we  saw  right  away  over 
there  on  the  other  side,"  said  one  of  them. 


258  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  May  God  destroy  them  !  You  can't  show  your  head  for 
fear  of  patrols  ;  the  Balkan's  black  with  Turks  and  Cir- 
cassians. God  bless  you  for  the  bread,  Ognianofif.  I'd 
have  been  done  for  mthout  it." 

(^nianoff  began  to  feel  relieved.  He  saw  that  he  had 
been  saved  only  by  a  miracle,  not  for  the  first  time  in  his 
Ufe. 

"  Where  are  you  going  now  ?  " 

"  We'll  try  to  get  through  to  Roumania.    And  you  ?  " 

"  For  the  last  three  days  I've  been  making  for  Bela 
Cherkva,  and  you  see  where  I've  got  to." 

One  of  the  Klissouriots  remarked  : 

"  Ah,  they're  a  cunning  lot  at  Bela  Cherkva  :  they 
haven't  risen,  not  they — ^they  know  better  than  that." 

This  was  said  in  tones  of  anger  :  not  so  much  because 
Bela  Cherkva  had  not  revolted,  but  more  from  envy  that  it 
had  not  suffered  Uke  the  rest.  Alas  !  such  is  human  nature: 
all  sufferings  are  endured  more  easily  when  one  knows 
they  are  shared  by  others,  even  though  these  be  one's 
friends  and  relations.  It  is  that  cruel  feeling,  so  strongly 
developed  in  our  hearts,  which  stimulates  the  soldier  to 
heroism  and  gives  him  unflinching  courage  in  the  presence 
of  death  while  his  comrades  fall  right  and  left  round  him. 
Leave  the  hero  by  himself,  exposed  to  danger,  and  he  will 
fly  in  panic  fear.  One  of  our  proverbs  says  :  "  What's  for 
the  whole  world  is  Hke  a  marriage-feast." 

"  Have  you  heard  anything  about  Bela  Cherkva  ?  "  asked 
Ognianoff. 

"  Don't  I  tell  you  ?  They've  shown  themselves  very 
smart.  We  were  the  only  ones  ready  to  liberate  the 
Bulgarian  kingdom  !  " 

"  It's  wonderful — ^wonderful !  "  said  Ognianoff,  thought- 
fully. "  Everything  was  prepared,  and  they  were  all  so 
keen  at  Bela  Cherkva." 

"  Well,  never  mind — it's  better  so.  What'd  be  the  good 
of  their  being  burnt  down  too  ?  " 

"  I  say,  have  you  seen  the  sky  at  night — ^how  red  it 
is  ?  What  a  heap  of  villages  they  must  have  burnt,"  said 
another. 

"  Yes,  yes,  I've  seen  it,"  said  Ognianoff,  gloomily. 

"  The  world's  topsy-turvy.  Call  that  a  revolt  ?  It  was 
a  disgrace  !  And  we,  poor  fools,  we're  still  in  for  it.  Let 
them  as  deceived   the   nation  give   an  account  of  it  to 


TO  THE  NORTH  259 

God  !  Why  couldn't  they  keep  quiet  till  things  were 
ready  ?  " 

Ognianoff  listened  silently  to  these  reproaches.  They 
grieved  him,  but  he  could  not  resent  them.  If  not  quite 
justifiable,  they  were  at  least  most  natural  in  the  mouths  of 
the  poor  ruined  victims.  He  himself  had  in  his  mind  more 
than  once  reproached  the  people,  just  as  they  reproached 
their  leaders  :  such  are  the  sad  but  logical  consequences  of 
failure. 

"  Come,  it's  no  good  snivelling — God  knows  what's 
happened.  It  was  written  by  God  and  the  Blessed  Virgin  : 
if  Klissoura's  lost,  Bulgaria  isn't  lost,  is  it  ?  "  said  Kill-the- 
Bear,  trying  to  console  them. 

"  I  say,  Ivan,  what's  become  of  the  wife  ?  Where  have 
you  sent  her  to  ?  "  asked  Boicho. 

"  Staika  ?     Oh,  she's  all  right,  God  bless  her  soul.     I  took 

her  to  Altinovo,  and  from  there Well,   I  never.     I 

forgot  to  tell  you  about  the  schoolmistress  !  " 

Ognianoff  started  at  these  words.  He  had  a  presenti- 
ment of  Rada's  fate,  but  did  not  dare  to  ask  about  the 
terrible  story.  He  had  seen  in  the  night  how  the  house  fell 
in  ruin,  with  the  flames  around  it  on  all  sides  ;  the  girl  must 
have  been  crushed  to  death  there — if,  indeed,  she  had  not 
put  an  end  to  her  life  before.  He  had  come  too  late  to  save 
her,  and  this  thought  lay  like  a  terrible  weight  on  his  soul. 
Besides,  some  other  feeling  he  dared  not  analyse  agitated 
and  tortured  his  whole  soul. 

"  It  was  touch  and  go  with  her,  bless  her  pretty  soul." 

"  What ! — is  she  alive  ?  "  cried  Boicho. 

"  Yes,  yes,  teacher ;  but  if  it  hadn't  been  for  Kill-the- 
Bear " 

"  Where  is  she  now  ?  "  asked  Boicho,  excitedly,  as  if  he 
wished  to  read  the  whole  story  in  a  moment  upon  Ivan's 
great,  rough,  kindly  face. 

"  Don't  be  afraid — she's  in  good  hands,"  said  Kill-the- 
Bear,  reassuringly. 

An  ineffable  feeling  of  rehef  came  over  Boicho.  His  face 
beamed  as  he  said  with  emotion  to  the  giant : 

"  Thanks,  thanks,  Ivan  !  You've  relieved  me  of  a 
frightful  torture  !  " 

"  Well,"  added  Ivan,  "  it's  a  good  thing  Staika  told  me  in 
time.  You  see,  Anichka  met  Staika  as  she  was  leaving  the 
bouse,  and  said  to  her :  *  Staika,  tell  Ivan  (that's  me)  that 


260  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

Rada  won't  fly,  for  all  my  begging  her  ;  but  don't  leave  her 
there,  poor  thmg  ;  take  her  away  by  force.'  When  I  heard 
that,  God  bless  its  soul,  what  was  I  to  do  ?  When  I  got 
in,  she  locked  the  door.  I  hammered  and  shouted  ;  she 
wouldn't  open — I  had  to  break  the  door  in.  What  do  I 
see  ?  There  she  was  at  the  table,  holding  a  Ughted  candle 
to  a  canvas  bag." 

"  The  bag  of  gunpowder  !  "  cried  Ognianoff,  shuddering 
as  he  thought  of  the  death  Rada  had  prepared  for  herself. 

"  That's  it — the  gunpowder.  Enough  to  blow  the  whole 
place  up  to  the  sky  in  a  thousand  pieces.  There's  a  silly 
girl  for  you  !  But  1  didn't  know  it  was  powder,"  continued 
Kill-the-Bear  ;  "  and  I  went  straight  up  to  her.  Well, 
whether  God  did  it,  or  whether  there  was  a  draught  from 
the  door,  the  candle  blew  out.  '  What  are  you  doing  there, 
teacher  ?  '  says  I.  '  Everybody's  off  to  the  mountain. 
What  are  you  stopping  here  for  ?  '  And  I  takes  hold  of  her, 
and  off  we  go  to  the  Balkan,  with  Staika  following  behind. 
Staika  kept  telling  her  it  was  all  right,  while  she  cried  and 
groaned.  My  stars,  teacher,  how  she  did  cry  for  you  !  I 
made  sure  you  were  killed,  but  I  wouldn't  tell  her  so.  I 
said,  '  The  teacher's  safe  and  sound,  teacher ;  never  fear, 
teacher.'  But  we  were  late  ;  the  Vrlishnitsa  was  full  of 
Turks  ;  there  was  no  getting  through .  Here's  a  fix — ^what's 
to  be  done  ?  Well,  we  took  to  the  mountain,  and  got  to 
our  village  at  midnight.  I  took  the  teacher  and  Staika  to 
our  Vlko — my  brother-in-law — and  made  for  the  Stara 
Planina.    And  here  you  are  alive — God  bless  your  soul !  " 

Ognianoff  silently  pressed  EdU-the-Bear's  hands. 

"  I  left  them  at  Altinovo,  but  they  must  be  at  Bela 
Cherkva  by  now.  Vlko  was  going  to  take  them  there  in 
the  morning,  dressed  as  Turkish  women.  It's  frightful  just 
now  with  the  Turks  at  Altinovo  ;  but  they  say  things  are 
quiet  at  Bela  Cherkva.  When  you  get  there,  teacher,  find 
out  Staika — ^my  %vife,  that  is — and  give  her  my  kind  love. 
Say  you  saw  me  here,  fit  and  well,  and  living  on  roast  hare 
and  white  bread,  so  as  she  shan't  fret." 

"  Yes  ;  but  I  don't  think  I  shall  go  to  Bela  Cherkva  now, 
Ivan." 

Kill-the-Bear  looked  at  him  in  surprise. 

"  What !    You're  not  going  ?  " 

"  No  ;  I  don't  want  to,  now." 

"  And  where  are  you  going,  then  ?  " 


TO  THE  NORTH  261 

"We'll  see." 

"  Then  come  with  us  to  Roumania." 

"  No  ;  you'd  better  go  by  yourselves,  and  even  separate. 
It  doesn't  do  for  too  many  to  go  together." 

The  darkness  of  the  night  had  now  spread  over  the  valley 
and  penetrated  the  cave.  The  brook  rippled  past  mourn- 
fully. The  fugitives  could  hardly  see  one  another.  Kill- 
the-Bear  and  his  comrades  rose  to  go. 

"  Come,  teacher,  let's  kiss  each  other  before  we  go.  God 
knows  which  of  us  'U  survive  !  "  said  Kill-the-Bear. 

They  took  leave  of  each  other,  and  separated. 

Ognianoff  remained  alone.  He  threw  himself  on  the 
ground,  face  downwards,  and  sobbed  like  a  child. 

The  long  pent-up  volcano  of  suffering  now  burst  from  his 
heart  in  a  flood  of  tears.  It  was  the  first  time  that  that  man 
of  iron  had  ever  wept  aloud.  His  strength  of  mind  had 
given  way.  Suffering,  cruel  disappointment,  the  pangs  of 
conscience,  regret  for  the  countless  victims  sacrificed  so 
uselessly ;  his  love  destroyed  without  hope  of  revival ;  grief, 
inconsolable  grief  at  his  sohtude,  and  detestatiom  of  life — a 
whole  series  of  reminiscences,  some  bright,  others  gloomy, 
but  all  bitter  alike  :  all  these  flowed  forth  in  his  tears.  He 
had  encouraged  those  poor  people  who  had  lost  their  all  in 
the  fire  kindled  by  him  and  his  comrades,  while  he  himself 
was  crushed  and  disconsolate.  He  had  tacitly  brought 
down  this  terrible  punishment  upon  them.  He  had  made 
an  effort  to  restrain  himself  before  the  Klissouriots,  while 
blood  was  flowing  from  his  heart,  which  throbbed  within 
him  like  a  wounded  snake.  And  that  Rada,  too  !  He 
could  not  forget  her — she  had  wept  also.  He  was  vexed 
with  himself  for  thinking  of  his  own  personal  sorrows  before 
his  country's  ruin  ;  but  he  could  not  help  it.  Never  mind  ; 
that  was  all  over  now.  Every  tie  was  broken.  He  would 
never  return  to  Bela  Cherkva — the  cradle  of  his  love.  It 
appeared  him  black  and  gloomy  as  a  grave  now.  He 
had  told  her  at  Klissoura  that  all  was  over  between  them  : 
he  had  withered  her  with  his  glance,  trampled  upon  her  in 
scorn.  True,  he  had  risked  his  life  in  the  flames  to  try  and 
save  her,  but  he  had  done  so  through  some  other  impulse — 
not  from  love  ;  perhaps  from  a  feehng  of  chivalry — almost 
unconsciously.  No,  he  would  not  go  there  to  gaze  upon 
his  fallen  idol — not  even  from  afar :  his  pride  revolted  at 
the  thought.    He  would  make  for  Roumania  ;  he  would  get 


262  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

there  somehow,  like  so  mjany  others.  At  Bela  Cherkva  he 
could  only  hide  himself  like  a  wild  beast,  at  the  risk  of 
being  betrayed  bj^  his  enemies  ;  besides,  there  was  nothing 
for  him  to  do  there.  In  Roumania,  that  hospitable  land  of 
freedom,  he  might  still  work  for  Bulgaria  until  her  wounds 
were  healed  :  there  he  could  breathe  freely  once  more.  To 
the  North— to  the  North  ! 

And  Ognianoff  turned  his  steps  northwards. 

The  sky  was  cloudy.  Utter  darkness  reigned  over  the 
silent  solitudes  of  the  mountain. 

All  night  he  wandered  over  the  peaks  and  across  the 
valleys,  avoiding  as  far  as  possible  his  former  direction. 
His  new  resolution  gave  him  redoubled  strength,  which  the 
food  he  had  eaten  contributed  to  increase. 

At  dawn  he  stood  on  a  mountain  peak  :  before  him 
stretched  a  broad  green  plain  to  the  south.  He  recognised 
the  valley  of  the  Strema.  Bela  Cherkva  lay  at  the  foot  of 
the  mountain.     He  bowed  silently  to  destiny. 

CHAPTER  IV  :    THE  FLAG 

Ognianoff,  as  though  awakening  from  deep  slumber,  saw 
too  late  that  he  had  come  to  the  very  place  he  was  seeking 
to  avoid. 

He  had  taken  the  wrong  direction  :  he  was  on  the  bare 
rock  above  Bela  Cherkva,  far  from  any  thicket  or  other 
place  of  concealment :  to  seek  to  retrace  his  steps  would 
be  madly  to  rush  into  destruction.  The  only  thing  left  for 
him  to  do,  was  to  plunge  into  the  deep  valley  of  the 
Monastery  stream,  which  afforded  a  good  shelter,  and  from 
thence  to  make  his  way  as  best  he  could. 

But  when  he  reached  the  springs  from  which  the 
Monastery  stream  takes  its  rise,  and  saw  the  scanty  fir- 
thickets  on  the  rocky  slope,  the  sight  of  these  familiar 
scenes  at  once  changed  his  resolution. 

"  No  !  "  he  said,  "  I'll  stop  in  this  brushwood  all  day  and 
start  back  again  to-night.  I'll  manage  to  get  a  change 
of  clothes  in  some  Balkan  village,  and  then  off  to  Roumania. 
Never,  never  again  to  Rada  !  " 

And  he  lay  down  to  rest  beneath  the  pines,  in  the  tall 
weeds  and  grass  which  rendered  him  invisible.  For  hours 
he  lay  there  patiently  waiting  for  nightfall. 

Late  in  the  afternoon  Ognianoff  suddenly  remarked  on  the 


THE  SLAIN  263 

heights  behind  him  something  black  streaming  and  fluttering 
in  the  wind.  It  resembled  some  gigantic  bird  waving  its 
motionless  wings  in  the  air.    He  gazed  at  it  with  surprise. 

"  It's  a  flag  !  "  he  said  in  amazement.  He  saw  that 
it  was  a  red  banner  planted  among  the  rocks  at  the  summit. 
The  wind  was  peacefully  waving  the  flag,  which  must  be 
easily  visible  at  Bela  Cherkva. 

No  one  was  to  be  seen  near  the  flag.  Who  could  have 
planted  it  there  ?  For  what  reason  ?  Was  it  a  signal  of 
revolt  ?  Ognianoff  took  it  to  be  the  latter.  There  could  be 
no  other  rational  explanation  of  its  presence  there. 

Ognianoff  could  no  longer  restrain  himself.  Dismissing 
all  thought  of  further  precaution,  he  hurriedly  left  his 
hiding-place,  hastened  up  the  heights  from  whence  he  had 
descended,  and  gazed  attentively  towards  Bela  Cherkva. 
It  seemed  to  him  that  he  could  hear  distant  reports  of  guns 
being  fired.  Where  could  they  be  coming  from  ?  He 
strained  his  eyes  in  the  direction  of  the  town.  Thanks  to 
the  extraordinary  clearness  of  the  atmosphere,  he  was  able 
to  discern  white  puffs  of  smoke,  such  as  are  emitted  by 
firearms,  at  the  upper  end  of  the  town. 

"  It's  a  revolt — a  revolt  at  Bela  Cherkva  !  "  he  cried 
joyously  :  "  my  true  comrades  Sokoloff,  Popoff,  and  Micho 
haven't  been  standing  with  their  arms  folded.  The  revolt 
must  have  broken  out  in  other  places  as  well.  This  flag 
must  be  the  sign  agreed  on.  The  smouldering  flamejhas 
burst  out  at  length.  My  God  !  there's  still  some  hope  left!'* 
And  he  flew  down  the  steep  cHff  as  though  he  had  wings. 

CHAPTER  V  :    THE  SLAIN 

It  was  completely  dark  when  Ognianoff  emerged  from  the 

black  and  rocky  vaUey  of  the  Monastery  stream. 

He  passed  by  the  Monastery,  but  did  not  think  it  neces- 
sary to  look  in  to  see  Father  Natanafl  :  it  would  have  been 
a  loss  of  precious  time.  The  thought  that  the  revolt  had  at 
last  broken  out  at  Bela  Cherkva  had  as  it  were  galvanised 
him  and  restored  to  him  all  his  moral  and  physical  forces. 

He  took  the  main  road  to  the  town,  and  soon  distin- 
guished in  the  dark  the  black  outHne  of  the  famiHar  houses, 
chimneys,  and  trees.  Then  he  left  the  road  and  cHmbed 
the  hillock  which  rises  above  Bela  Cherkva  to  the  north, 
and  at  the  foot  of  which  the  schoolhouse  lay. 


264  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

From  that  height  he  searched  the  city  with  his  gaze  ;  all 
seemed  wrapped  in  slumber  ;  there  was  no  light  anyivhere  ; 
he  could  discern  no  noise  or  any  other  sign  that  a  revolt 
had  broken  out  in  the  town  ;  the  only  sign  was  the  usual 
barking  of  the  dogs.  This  surprised  Ognianoff :  he  began 
to  wonder  what  was  to  be  done.  To  go  down  into  the 
town  and  knock  at  a  friend's  door  seemed  to  him  impru- 
dent, to  say  the  least.  He  resolved  to  go  to  the  boys' 
school,  which  was  close  by  :  the  old  caretaker  could  give 
him  such  news  as  she  had  of  what  was  going  on  in  the  town. 
He  hastened  down  towards  the  western  side  of  the  school, 
and  chmbed  the  fence  which  surrounded  its  enclosure.  On 
examining  the  place,  he  found  that  he  was  in  the  cemetery, 
which  took  up  the  greater  part  of  the  yard.  In  the  middle 
the  ancient  church  loomed  tall  and  silent,  itself  like  a 
gigantic  tombstone.  At  the  end  of  the  courtyard  could  be 
seen  the  black  mass  of  the  school  buildings,  all  plunged  in 
darkness  and  slumbering.  This  deadly  silence  which  greeted 
Ognianoff,  instead  of  all  the  noise  and  confusion  to  be 
expected  in  a  revolted  city,  took  him  by  surprise  and 
inspired  him  with  the  gloomiest  forebodings.  A  cold  wind 
seemed  to  issue  from  the  terrible  quiet  and  darkness  of  the 
gravestones  :  these  loomed  silently  before  Ognianoff's  eyes 
with  those  mysterious  shapes  which  night  lends  to  every 
object ;  they  seemed  like  living  creatures,  or  Hke  the  dead 
emerging  as  far  as  the  waist  from  the  graves.  He  could 
not  restrain  a  painful  feeling  at  heart — a  secret  desire  to 
leave  as  soon  as  possible  that  chilly  abode  of  darkness  and 
mystery.  At  such  an  hour  the  human  soul  is  overcome 
with  involuntary  terror.  Our  nature  cannot  endure  any 
contact  with  the  other  world  without  a  cold  shudder.  The 
cofl&n-lid  which  falls  over  the  corpse  divides  the  two  worlds, 
which  do  not  recognise  one  another,  which  are  at  enmity 
together.  Mystery  and  darkness  instil  terror.  .  Night  is  an 
enemy,  a  grave  is  a  mystery.  Few  are  so  brave  as  to  pass 
unmoved  through  a  cemetery  at  night,  or  so  impious  as  to 
laugh  at  such  an  hour — their  very  laughter  would  appal 
them.  Who  knows  if  Hamlet  would  have  jested  so  airily 
upon  skulls  if  alone  at  night  in  a  graveyard  ? 

Suddenly,  through  the  dark,  to  which  his  eye  had  now 
become  accustomed,  Ognianoff  remarked  a  dim,  motionless 
light,  almost  like  an  eye,  issuing  from  the  church  itself 
through  the  low  window.  It  must  be  a  candle  or  a  taper. 
This  faint  light  was  a  welcome  break  in  the  darkness,  the 


THE  SLAIN  265 

only  sign  of  life  visible  in  the  town — it  flickered  so  hos- 
pitably and  almost  gaily.  Impelled  by  an  invincible  curi- 
osity, Ognianoff  advanced  over  the  tombstones,  approached 
the  window  in  which  the  light  was  shining,  and  looked 
through.  The  candle  was  burning  in  the  great  brass  candle- 
stick near  one  of  the  columns  of  the  church.  Its  dim  light 
scarcely  threw  a  faint  flicker  a  few  feet  round  the  candlestick 
on  the  floor.  The  rest  of  the  church  was  in  darkness. 
Within  that  dimly -lighted  circle  Ognianoff  remarked  certain 
indistinct  forms  laid  out.  There  was  something  there. 
What  could  it  be  ?  He  pressed  his  forehead  to  the  glass 
and  peered  in.  Then  he  saw  what  it  was.  Three  human 
figures  lay  there  on  the  matting — three  corpses.  Upon 
them  and  on  the  matting  were  deep  stains  of  blood.  The 
candle  threw  a  tremulous  and  shrinking  hght  upon  the 
scene.  The  faces,  distorted,  and  with  gaping  mouths,  bore 
the  signs  of  a  painful  death.  The  eyes  of  one  of  them, 
staring  wide,  seemed  to  be  looking  fiercely  and  reprovingly 
at  some  point  on  the  dark  ceiling  of  the  church.  The  other 
had  fallen  forward.  One  eye  on  which  the  candle-light  fell 
seemed  glaring  straight  at  Ognianoff's  window.  The 
apostle's  hair  stood  on  end.  Yet  he  could  not  tear  himself 
away  from  the  window.  The  dead  man's  glance  held  him 
there  transfixed — like  a  living  man's  who  recognises  you  and 
wishes  you  to  recognise  him.  Suddenly  Ognianoff  started 
with  a  cry.  It  was  Kandoff.  There  was  a  deep  wound 
under  his  chin.     He  was  killed. 

Ognianoff  left  this  terrible  sight  and  hurriedly  retraced 
his  steps.  How  could  Kandoff  have  come,  wounded,  to 
Bela  Cherkva  ?  How  had  they  been  killed  here,  he  and  the 
others  ?  Had  there  been  a  revolt  in  which  he  had  fallen  a 
victim,  or  else  had  he  simply  sought  death — simply  revealed 
himself  and  been  killed  ?  What  was  the  meaning  of  the  flag 
on  the  Balkan  and  the  flring  in  the  town,  and  this  silence 
now  ?  Ognianoff  could  not  think  of  any  answer  to  these 
questions.  Clearly  some  great  misfortune  had  happened. 
He  pondered  over  what  he  should  do  nexfc.  To  enter  the 
town  now  at  night  and  knock  at  any  door,  in  his  complete 
ignorance  of  what  had  taken  place,  would  be  reckless.  This 
death-like  silence  which  prevailed  at  Bela  Cherkva  froze  his 
very  soul.  It  was  more  terrible  than  the  most  unwelcome 
sound.  He  resolved  to  wait  for  dawn  in  the  Monastery 
valley,  and  to  see  what  was  to  be  done  in  the  morning. 

And  he  climbed  back  over  the  fence  again. 


266  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

CHAPTER  VI :    THE  MESSENGER 

Ognianoff  spent  that  night  in  a  deserted  mill  on  the 

Monastery  stream. 

Very  early  in  the  morning  he  climbed  up  the  slope 
behind  the  sacred  spring,*  where  the  great  rocks  lay 
scattered  about  as  if  they  had  been  thrown  down  there.  He 
lay  hid  among  these  unperceived  ;  from  that  height  he  could 
see  everything  that  went  on  below. 

The  valley  was  still  deserted.  The  stream  murmured  as 
it  flowed  between  its  banks  of  granite  :  the  mills  and  a  few 
water-wheels  groaned  and  rumbled.  The  heavens  were 
clear  and  blue  ;  the  first  rays  of  the  morning  sun  had  just 
reached  the  top  of  the  Balkan  ridge.  The  early  swallows 
flashed  through  the  air,  pursued  each  other  in  twittering 
zigzags  and  bathed  in  invisible  water.  The  morning  breeze 
rustled  among  the  weeds  with  which  the  rocks  were  over- 
grown :  over  the  green  plain  the  golden  rays  of  the  sun 
gradually  spread — they  reached  the  black  clump  of  pines, 
penetrated  the  weeds,  and  gilded  the  height  on  which 
Ognianoff  stood.  But  as  yet  no  one  appeared  on  the  path. 
OgnianofE  was  weary  of  waiting  in  that  place  :  the  uncer- 
tainty began  to  be  insupportable.  He  fixed  his  eyes  on  the 
valley  in  the  hope  of  seeing  some  one  from  whom  he  might 
learn  what  was  going  on,  and,  if  possible,  beg  a  change  of 
clothes,  so  as  to  make  his  entry  into  Bela  Cherkva  less 
perilous.  But  no  one  appeared,  and  the  fugitive  was  grow- 
ing more  impatient  every  minute.  Only  the  noise  of  the 
stream  replied  to  his  disquieted  soul. 

At  last  his  eyes  flashed  with  satisfaction.  The  door  of  a 
mill  opened  ;  a  little  girl  came  out  and  began  to  bathe  her 
face  in  the  stream. 

"  It's  Marika  !  "  cried  Ognianoff  joyfully,  for  his  piercing 
glance  had  recognised  the  girl  as  poor  old  Stoyan's  orphan 
daughter.  He  now  remembered  that  since  her  father's 
death  she  had  lived  with  her  uncle  at  the  mill.  Providence 
was  coming  to  his  aid. 

In  a  moment  he  had  made  his  way  down  to  the  river,  and 
crouching  behind  a  rock,  he  called  her  by  her  name. 

Marika  was  already  drying  her  face  with  her  apron.     She 

*  Sacred  springs  {aylacrfjca)  are  common  in  the  East,  and  much 
resorted  to  on  the  special  saint's  day  to  whom  they  are  consecrated,  by 
votaries  of  all  creeds. 


THE  MESSENGER  267 

turned  round  and  recognised  Boicho  at  once.    She  ran 
towards  him. 

"  Is  that  you,  Boicho  ?  "  she  asked. 

"  Come  here,  Marika,"  cried  Ognianoff  from  his  hiding- 
place. 

The  girl  looked  at  Ognianoff  with  eyes  wide  with  pleased 
surprise.  His  face  was  terribly  emaciated,  his  clothes 
ragged  and  blood-stained,  he  was  bare-headed,  exhausted,  as 
is  natural  in  a  man  who  for  ten  days  and  nights  has  battled 
with  hardships,  sleeplessness,  pursuers,  the  elements, 
hunger,  want,  and  danger  at  every  step.  Any  other  person 
appearing  at  that  hour  and  in  that  solitude  would  have 
frightened  the  girl,  but  Ognianoff  exercised  a  strange 
fascination  over  her. 

"  What's  going  on  in  town,  Marika  ?  "  was  his  first 
question. 

"  The  Turks  are  there,  Boicho." 

Ognianoff  clasped  his  forehead  with  both  hands  and 
began  to  think. 

"  What  was  the  firing  about  yesterday,  do  you  know  ?  '* 

"  Yesterday,  Boicho  ?     I  don't  know,  Boicho." 

"  Didn't  you  hear  the  guns  ?  " 

*'  No,  Boicho,  I  wasn't  in  town  yesterday."  Marika  did 
not  know  what  to  answer,  but  Boicho  now  saw  what  had 
happened.  There  had  been  an  attempt  at  insurrection, 
which  had  been  immediately  stamped  out  by  the  Turks, 
who  were  now  masters  of  Bela  Cherkva.  He  had  come 
too  late.  An  hour  or  two  earlier,  perhaps,  his  presence 
might  have  given  affairs  a  different  turn.  This  delay  was 
one  of  those  fatalities  which  sometimes  exercise  an  influence 
on  the  destinies  of  nations. 

After  two  minutes'  thought,  Ognianoff  asked  : 

"  Is  there  any  one  else  at  the  mill,  Marika  ?  " 

"  Only  Uncle  Mancho — he's  still  asleep." 

"  Marika,  do  you  know  where  Dr.  Sokoloff  lives  ?  " 

''  Yes  ;   at  old  Mother  Yakimitch's." 

"  That's  right.  And  do  you  know  where  Brzobegounek's 
house  is — -the  Austrian,  I  mean — with  the  whiskers  ?  " 

"The  man  who  makes  the  little  black  people  ?  " 

"  Yes,  yes,  that's  right,  dear,"  said  Ognianoff  with  a 
smile  at  this  innocent  satire  on  the  poor  photographer. 

"  Do  you  think  you  could  go  and  take  a  letter  to  them, 
darling  ?  " 


268  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  Oh,  yes,  Boicho,"  answered  the  girl,  joyfully. 

Ognianoff  drew  from  the  pocket  of  his  tunic  a  pencil  and 
a  piece  of  paper,  much  crumpled.  It  was  Rada's  letter. 
The  sight  of  it  filled  him  with  dismay.  With  a  trembling 
hand  he  tore  off  the  blank  part,  and,  spreading  it  on  a  flat 
stone,  wrote  a  few  words  on  it,  after  which  he  folded  it  up. 

"  Now,  Marika,  you're  to  take  this  letter  to  Dr.  Sokoloff  : 
if  he's  not  at  home,  take  it  to  the  Austrian.  Put  it  away 
carefully  in  your  pocket. 

"  Yes." 

"  If  they  ask  you  where  I  am,  you  can  tell  them — but  only 
those  two,  do  you  hear  ?  Say  I'm  in  the  empty  mill,  behind 
the  HambarofI  Mill." 

Marika  glanced  towards  the  northern  side  of  the  valley, 
where  the  solitary  mill  lay,  half  in  ruins. 

Ognianoff  had  not  put  his  name  nor  his  hiding-place  in 
the  letter,  fearing  lest  by  some  mischance  the  paper,  instead 
of  reaching  its  destination,  should  fall  into  dangerous 
hands.  He  was  quite  convinced  of  Marika's  devotion,  but 
dared  not  entrust  her  with  a  verbal  message,  lest  in  her  sim- 
plicity she  might  make  some  slip,  of  which  the  conse- 
quences might  be  fatal. 

To  impress  still  more  deeply  on  her  mind  the  importance 
of  her  errand,  he  added  quietly  : 

"  Because  if  you  lose  the  letter,  dear,  or  tell  any  one  else 
by  mistake  that  you've  seen  me,  or  where  I  am,  the  Turks 
will  come  and  kill  me.     Be  careful,  darling." 

At  these  words  Marika's  face  assumed  a  grave  and 
frightened  look,  and  her  hand  involuntarily  sought  the 
place  under  her  arm  where  she  had  inserted  Boicho's  letter 
under  her  dress. 

*'  I'll  go  and  tell  uncle  I'm  going  to  fetch  the  bread." 

"  That's  right,  Marika — mind  you  remember  what  I  told 
you." 

Marika  went  into  the  mill. 

Boicho  returned  to  his  hiding-place  behind  a  rock,  and 
waited  to  see  Marika  start. 

He  waited  for  a  whole  hour,  with  terrible  impatience. 

At  last  he  saw  the  girl  picking  her  way  barefoot  across  the 
stones  in  the  path  :  he  watched  her  disappear  in  the  direc- 
tion of  Bela  Cherkva. 


MARIKA'S  FAILURE  269 

CHAPTER  VII :    MARIKA'S  FAILURE 

When  she  reached  the  meadow  before  the  Monastery, 
Marika  stopped,  out  of  breath,  and  looked  anxiously  round  ; 
but  she  saw  that  she  was  unobserved,  and  continued  her 
journey  hurriedly.  AU  the  way  to  the  town  she  did  not 
meet  with  a  single  person  ;  the  fields  were  deserted,  as  also 
the  street  which  the  orphan  was  about  to  enter  appeared  to 
be.  Suddenly  Marika  stopped.  She  saw  three  Turks  com- 
ing towards  her  from  the  other  end  of  the  street.  Filled 
with  terror  at  the  sight  of  these  men,  she  turned  round  with- 
out hesitating,  and  fled  down  into  the  rose-gardens,  intend- 
ing to  enter  the  town  by  the  other  street  on  its  western  side. 
This  was  going  considerably  out  of  her  way,  and  increased 
the  distance  between  her  and  Sokolofl's  house.  At  last 
Marika  reached  the  western  side  of  the  town.  To  the  right 
stretched  the  great  bare  plain  ;  to  the  left  was  the  town, 
with  its  narrow  street,  and  the  row  of  low  shops  on  either 
side.  The  shops  were  completely  deserted  ;  neither  Turk 
nor  Bulgarian  was  to  be  seen  there.  AU  the  shops,  doors, 
and  windows  that  had  shutters  were  closed  :  this  soHtude 
encouraged  the  poor  girl,  and  she  ran  down  the  street.  But 
she  had  hardly  advanced  ten  paces  when  something  made 
her  turn  back  :  she  remained  transfixed  with  surprise.  Not 
far  away  on  the  plain  a  huge  cloud  of  dust  was  rising,  from 
which  proceeded  a  confused  clamour  of  heavy  footsteps, 
trampling  of  horses,  and  loud  human  voices.  Soon, 
through  the  dust,  could  be  seen  the  origin  of  all  this  dis- 
turbance. It  was  the  horde  of  Tossoun  Bey,  returning  vic- 
torious and  triumphant  after  three  days'  plunder  from  the 
ruins  of  Klissoura.  Men  on  foot  and  horsemen  advanced  in 
inextricable  confusion,  loaded  with  arms  and  booty.  Soon 
the  throng  surged  like  a  wave  into  the  street,  which  it  com- 
pletely filled,  and  passed  through  it  with  wild  clamour.  It 
was  only  a  part  of  the  horde,  consisting  of  a  few  hundred 
Bashi-bozouks,  all  natives  of  the  neighbouring  villages  to 
the  east  of  Bela  Cherkva.  They  were  now  marching  in 
triumph,  with  their  banners  displayed,  to  the  sound  of  music 
and  with  such  trophies  as  they  could  bring  with  them.  The 
rest  was  stored  in  the  endless  line  of  waggons  which  came 
behind.  For  the  sake  of  ease,  the  Bashi-bozouks  had  put 
on  the  most  precious  clothes  plundered  from  unhappy 
Klissoura,  so  that  the  bloodthirsty  array  had  in  some 


270  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

respects  a  comic  appearance — ^it  resembled  a  carnival  pro- 
cession, in  Asiatic  taste.  Many  had  put  on  women's 
valuable  fur  jackets,  fine  shirts,  and  quilted  satin  vests,  in 
spite  of  the  heat.  Some  Bashi-bozouks  had  even  decked 
themselves,  doubtless  in  contempt,  in  rich  ecclesiastical 
vestments  stolen  from  the  churches  at  Khssoura.  Their 
leader,  Tossoun  Bey,  wore  a  magnificent  European  dressing- 
gown  of  grey  cashmere,  lined  with  red  cloth,  with  long 
hanging  red  tassels.  Evidently  Tossoun  Bey  was  un- 
acquainted with  the  use  of  this  garment,  which  he  took  to 
be  some  luxurious  overcoat,  most  appropriate  for  his  return 
to  Bela  Cherkva. 

It  was  a  repulsive  sight. 

But  Marika  hardly  saw  it.  At  the  very  moment  that  the 
horde  came  into  sight  she  disappeared  from  the  street  and 
passed  through  others  still  more  silent  and  deserted.  At 
last  she  reached  Sokolofi's  door.  She  knocked  :  there  was 
no  reply.     She  knocked  again  and  again. 

"  Who's  that  knocking  ?  "  asked  the  old  housekeeper 
from  inside. 

"  It's  me.  Open  the  door,  mother  Yakimitch,"  was  all 
the  girl  could  say. 

"  What  do  you  want  here  ?  " 

*'  Dr.  Sokoloff.  Open  the  door — do  !  "  cried  the  girl 
tearfully. 

The  old  woman  muttered  something  angrily,  but  opened 
the  door. 

"  What  do  you  want  ?  He's  not  at  home,"  she  said 
curtly. 

"  Where  is  he,  mother?  " 

"  Tell  me,  and  I'll  tell  you.  They've  been  looking  for 
him  since  yesterday,  and  there's  not  a  sign  of  him.  Be  off 
with  you." 

And  the  old  woman  slammed  the  door. 

Marika  stood  in  dismay  outside. 

She  ran  back.  The  photographer's  door  was  close  by : 
she  knocked  at  it. 

"  What  do  you  want,  little  girl  ?  "  asked  a  woman  in  rags, 
haggard,  and  sorrowful. 

*'  The  Austrian." 

"  What  do  you  want  him  f  or  ?  " 

*'  Let  me  in  to  see  the  Austrian  !  "  cried  Marika,  as  she 
tried  to  force  her  way  past  the  woman. 


MARIKA'S  FAILURE  271 

"  Are  you  mad,  child  ?  Haven't  they  killed  the  Aus- 
trian ?  "  answered  the  woman  wildly,  pushing  Marika  into 
the  street. 

These  words  terrified  the  poor  child.  She  now  began  to 
think  that  Boicho  would  be  killed  too,  that  the  Turks  were 
after  him,  and  that  they  would  take  the  letter  away  from 
her,  because  some  one  had  told  them  she  had  got  a  letter 
from  Boicho.  What  could  she  do  ?  She  looked  round 
her,  and  noticed  that  the  street  was  quite  empty,  and  that 
there  was  no  one  there.  She  became  frightened  and  began 
to  cry.  Just  then  some  one  stumbled  against  her  from 
behind.     She  looked  round  :  it  was  Kolcho. 

"  What  are  you  crying  for,  my  dear  ?  "  asked  the  blind 
lad,  fixing  his  sightless  eyes  upon  Marika,  as  if  he  sought 
to  recognise  her. 

If  Marika  had  known  Kolcho  better,  she  would  have 
transgressed  Ognianofi's  orders  and  told  him  the  whole 
story  :  Kolcho  would  have  replaced  Sokoloff .  But  she 
was  afraid  of  this  strange  man  and  fled  down  another 
street. 

"  Stop,  stop,  Marika  !  "  cried  Kolcho,  who  at  that  minute, 
through  his  wonderful  faculty,  recognised  by  her  weeping 
that  it  was  old  Stoyan's  daughter.  He  had  knocked 
immediately  after  her  at  Sokoloff's  door,  to  ask  the  old 
woman  about  the  doctor  :  from  her  he  had  learnt  that 
a  little  girl  had  just  been  to  look  for  him.  Some  presenti- 
ment told  him  that  the  girl  was  Marika,  and  that  if  she  was 
looking  for  the  doctor  it  must  be  for  some  very  serious 
reason,  as  indeed  was  shown  by  the  fact  of  her  crying 
because  she  had  been  unable  to  find  him.  Who  could 
hav&  sent  her  to  Sokoloff  at  such  a  time  as  this  ?  Only 
some  one  who  did  not  know  what  was  going  on — some 
stranger.  Could  it  have  been  he  ?  Since  the  previous 
evening  a  rumour  had  been  current  that  Boicho  had  not 
perished,  but  had  escaped  to  the  mountains,  and  was 
probably  in  hiding  there  now.  Perhaps  it  was  Boicho  who 
had  come  down  to  the  Monastery  stream,  where  Marika 
lived  at  her  uncle's  mill,  and  had  sent  her  to  inform 
Sokoloff  of  his  arrival.  Yes,  yes,  this  Marika  was  an  instru- 
ment of  Providence.  The  supposition  strangely  excited 
Kolcho.  He  cried,  advancing  in  the  direction  the  girl  had 
taken  : 

"  Marika,  Marika,  come  here,  child." 


272  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

But  there  was  no  answer.  I 

Kolcho  groaned  in  despair.  I 

By  that  time  he  had  reached  the  market-place. 

This  at  least  was  not  silent  nor  deserted  :  loud  talking 
and  the  trampHng  of  horses'  hoofs  could  be  heard. 

It  seemed  like  a  procession. 

Every  one  was  talking  Turkish.     What  could  this  be  ? 

Kolcho  stopped,  astounded,  near  the  cafe,  and  listened  to 
what  was  being  said. 

He  heard  a  loud  voice  inside,  saying,  in  Bulgarian  : 

"  There,  just  think  of  it — it's  shameful :  to  try  and  bum 
the  town  down  over  our  heads  !  It  was  touch-and-go  they 
didn't  kill  every  one  of  us,  like  dogs,  and  not  leave  one  stone 
standing  on  another.  Where  are  the  brigands  now,  I  should 
like  to  know  :  bring  'em  here  and  I'll  read  out  their  sen- 
tences for  'em.  Revolt,  indeed  !  Against  whom  ?  Against 
the  Sultan,  their  father  and  benefactor,  who  watches  over 
us  as  the  apple  of  his  eye,  to  see  that  we  come  to  no  harm. 
So  many  hundred  years  we've  been  under  the  shadow  of 
the  Sultan's  throne,  our  grandfathers  have  prospered,  and 
our  fathers,  and  we  ourselves — ^aye,  and  our  grandchildren'll 
be  put  to  it  to  find  anything  better.  Let's  have  a  little 
common  sense,  bother  you  all !  Whoever  isn't  comfortable 
here  can  go  to  Moskovia.    We're  all  right." 

Kolcho  recognised  Chorbaji  Yordan's  voice. 

"  Long  live  His  Majesty  the  Sultan  !  "  cried  another. 

This  time  Kolcho  recognised  Fratio. 

These  two  expressed  the  panic  which  had  overwhelmed 
the  town.  The  former  was  hateful  only,  for  he  was  sincere 
in  what  he  said — ^he  had  spoken  and  thought  thus  even 
before  the  outbreak  ;  but  the  other  was  repulsive,  for  he 
was  actuated  only  by  cowardice.  His  cry  met  with  no 
response,  but  he  found  it  in  the  very  silence  which  followed. 
In  such  times  as  the  present,  the  Yordans  were  right  and 
the  Fratios  honourable.  Every  outrage  upon  the  fallen 
was  permissible — every  brutahty  of  the  victor  condoned. 
Vce  victis. 

The  April  insurrection  was  less  terrible  in  its  massacres  at 
Batak  than  in  the  baseness  of  its  dowrfall. 

Kolcho  sighed  deeply. 

He  turned  back  towards  Mother  Ghinka's  house. 


THE  MEADOW  273 

CHAPTER  Vni :  THE  MEADOW 

That  day,  about  noon,  a  family  was  to  be  seen  sitting  in  a 
delightful  meadow,  under  the  shade  of  the  green  trees,  just 
outside  the  town.  At  the  southern  end  of  the  meadow  rose 
the  stone  fence  round  a  garden,  the  gate  of  which  opened 
on  to  the  meadow  :  to  the  north  stretched  the  panorama  of 
the  Stara  Planina,  with  its  gaunt,  spare  peaks,  steep  slopes 
seamed  by  the  ravines,  and  the  picturesque  and  blooming 
plain  below. 

The  meadow  and  garden  belonged  to  Chorbaji  Yordan, 
whose  family  it  was  sitting  there.  With  this  exception,  not 
a  soul  could  be  seen  stirring  outside  the  town  ;  for  although 
since  the  capitulation  things  were  quieter  and  some  life 
appeared  in  the  streets,  no  one  ventured  abroad  either  on 
business  or  simply  to  enjoy  the  beauties  of  nature.  Only 
Yordan's  family  could  hope  to  do  so  unmolested. 

For  Yordanitsa  had  fallen  seriously  ill  in  consequence  of 
her  grief  at  Lalka's  death,  and  had  been  confined  to  her  bed 
for  many  days.  The  doctor  had  insisted  on  the  necessity  of 
a  change  of  scene  for  the  sufferer,  and,  as  the  streets  were 
not  quite  safe,  she  had  been  conducted  through  backyards 
and  gardens  to  Yordan's  plantation  in  the  suburbs,  where 
she  could  breathe  in  and  enjoy  the  pure  fresh  air.  The 
change  at  once  revived  her.  From  the  garden  they  had 
ventured  out  into  the  meadow,  where  two  great  buffaloes 
were  grazing,  also  Yordan's  property. 

A  zaptie  sitting  some  distance  off  protected  the  party 
from  insult  or  annoyance. 

There  were  amongst  them  two  who  did  not  belong  to  the 
family :  these  were  a  stout  and  lusty  peasant  girl,  and  Rada, 

The  peasant  woman  was  Staika,  Eall-the -Bear's  bride, 
whom  Ghinka  had  engaged  to  help  in  the  house-work  :  she 
had  also  extended  a  hospitable  welcome  to  Rada  ;  nor  had 
this  given  rise  to  any  objections  on  the  part  of  Yordanitsa 
or  any  other  member  of  Yordan's  family.  On  the  contrary, 
the  sight  of  Rada,  their  lost  Lalka's  dearest  friend,  seemed 
to  afford  them  a  sweet  but  painful  consolation,  and  their 
former  contempt  and  hatred  gave  way  to  more  humane 
feeHng  towards  the  poor  homeless  girl. 

We  have  already  seen  that  Staika  and  Rada,  who  had 
become  friends  at  Klissoura,  had  both  ahke  suffered  in  the 
ruin  of  that  town.     Thanks  to  Staika,  Ivan  had  been  in  time 


274  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

to  save  Rada.  On  the  way,  she  had  done  her  best  to  con- 
sole the  weeping  girl,  and  when  they  arrived,  two  days  before 
at  Bela  Cherkva,  refused  to  be  separated  from  her.  Simple, 
half  wild  as  she  was,  she  understood,  nevertheless,  Rada's 
painful  position,  and  shared  her  woes.  There  had  been 
some  talk  just  before  of  Boicho,  and  Sister  Hajji  Rovoama 
had  averred  that  he  had  been  killed  in  the  fight :  this  had 
made  Staika  look  pitifully  at  Rada's  face,  which  grew  pale 
at  the  news  ;  and  she  conceived  a  violent  hatred  for  the 
nun  who  spoke  so  calmly  of  Boicho's  death. 

"  One  'ud  think  she'd  seen  the  teacher  killed  with  her  own 
eyes.  Why  should  she  be  glad,  the  old  owl  ?  "  whispered 
Staika  angrily  to  Rada. 

*'  Hush,  hush  !  "  Rada  answered  softly. 

Staika  listened  for  a  while  to  the  conversation,  and  then 
whispered  again  to  Rada  :  "  Rada,  the  old  cat's  got 
whiskers.     Why  doesn't  she  shave  them  ?  " 

Rada  smiled  involuntarily.     "  Hush,  dear." 

It  was  the  first  time  Staika  had  seen  sister  Hajji  Rovoama: 
she  did  not  know  she  was  her  mistress's  aunt.  To  be 
revenged  on  her  she  had  slily  cut  the  string  of  the  nun's 
rosary  and  stolen  some  of  the  amber  beads  ;  and  she  was 
now  watching  with  glee  the  discomfiture  of  the  old  woman 
as  she  looked  for  her  missing  property.  At  last  Staika 
nudged  Rada  and  burst  out  laughing. 

''  What  are  you  laughing  at,  Staika  ?  "  asked  Ghinka. 

"  Why,  at  the  fuss  the  old  crow's  making  over  a  couple  of 
grains  of  maize." 

'*  You  mustn't  say  that,  Sister  Hajji  Rovoama,  dear,'* 
whispered  Raja,  correcting  her. 

Fortunately,  Staika's  uncomplimentary  expression  passed 
unnoticed  :  just  then  every  one  turned  to  Stefchoff,  who 
had  come  from  the  town. 

He  at  once  began  eagerly  to  describe  the  doings  of  the 
deputation  in  which  he  had  taken  part.  This  deputation, 
headed  by  Yordan  Diamandieff,  had  been  sent  that  day  to 
meet  Tossoun  Bey,  who  was  on  his  way  to  attack  the  city  as 
having  revolted,  and  to  entreat  him  to  spare  it.  After  much 
trouble,  the  deputation  had  succeeded  in  saving  Bela 
Cherkva  from  the  fate  which  had  befallen  Klissoura,  but 
upon  three  most  onerous  conditions  :  1st,  the  town  was  to 
pay  down  on  the  spot  one  thousand  liras  *  to  Tossoun  Bey  as 
*  A  lira  is  about  I8s.  Qd. 


THE  MEADOW  275 

a  compensation  to  his  band,  thus  baulked  of  their  promised 
spoil ;  2ndly,  all  weapons,  down  to  the  very  penknives, 
were  to  be  handed  over  to  him  ;  and  3rdly,  all  suspected 
persons  were  to  be  given  up  to  the  authorities. 

This  complete  capitulation,  which  was  powerless  to  save 
Batak  from  Ahmed  Aga  of  Tumrush,  saved  Bela  Cherkva. 
Tossoun  Bey  entered  only  with  a  part  of  his  forces,  to  take 
over  the  arms.  Hence  Chorbaji  Yordan  and  in  some 
measure  Stefchoff  were  now  looked  upon  as  the  saviours  of 
the  town.  As  he  explained  all  these  doings  with  pride, 
Stefchofif  cast  from  time  to  time  a  spiteful  glance  at  Rada, 
who  did  not  even  look  towards  him.  But  the  presence  of 
that  hated  man  weighed  on  her  like  a  heavy  burden.  The 
harsh  tone  of  his  voice  affected  her  nerves  ;  every  sound  of 
it  awoke  a  painful  echo  in  her  heart.  She  saw  personified 
in  him  the  fatal  ruin  which  had  befallen  her  dearest  hopes, 
and  he  inspired  her  with  nameless  fear  and  aversion.  My 
God,  she  thought,  so  many  good  people  have  been  killed, 
and  this  monster  lives  and  rejoices  !  He's  honoured  and 
looked  up  to — why  ?  Because  he's  so  bad  and  vile  ?  But 
suddenly  she  turned  towards  Stefchoff  with  a  look  of 
interest,  because  he  was  now  talking  of  Boicho,  and  more 
gleefully  than  ever  before  when  he  had  mentioned  Boicho's 
name. 

"  What !  do  you  mean  to  say  the  scoundrel's  alive  ?  " 
asked  Sister  Hajji  Rovoama,  doubtfully. 

"  Yes  ;  he's  fled  to  the  mountain,"  said  Stefchoff  ;  "  but 
whether  he's  still  alive  I  can't  tell.  Perhaps  the  vultures 
have  picked  his  bones  by  this  time." 

Rada  pressed  her  hand  to  her  heart  with  a  painful 
emotion. 

"  I  tell  you  the  Count's  alive — ^he's  not  dead,"  said  Hajji 
Simeon.  "  He's  been  dead  so  often,  and  comes  to  life 
again  every  time.  I  don't  believe  it.  It  reminds  me,  when 
I  was  in  Moldavia  they  all  said  the  brigand  Yankulesco 
was  dead  ;  the  newspapers  wrote  about  him.  Well,  we  all 
said  '  God  rest  his  soul,'  when  one  day,  as  I  was  travelling 
near  Tourgou  Namtsou,  whom  should  I  meet  but  Yanku- 
lesco— curse  him  !  '  Good  morning,  Domnule  Yankulesco,* 
says  I :  he  just  took  my  watch — ^as  a  keepsake,  he  said. 
What  I  mean  is,  he  didn't  kill  me,  as  he  might  have  done. 
I  mean  to  say  a  brigand  never  dies." 

And  Hajji  Simeon  winked  in  a  friendly  manner  at  Rada, 


276  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

as  much  as  to  say,  *'  Take  my  word  for  it,  the  Count's  ahve." 

"  Provided  the  ruffian  doesn't  come  here  and  bum  the 
place  down,  like  Klissoura." 

"  Come  ?  I  wish  he  would  come,  that's  all,  and  that 
confounded  bear-trainer  too.  I  should  like  to  get  hold  of 
him  and  settle  his  business,  like  Master  Kandoff  and  the 
others,"  said  Stefchoff. 

"  Ah,  it's  a  pity,  but  somebody  must  be  sacrificed  to  save 
thousands,"  said  some  one. 

"  Of  course.  What  do  they  come  here  for,  the  vaga- 
bonds !  " 

"  What  for  ?  Why,  to  hide  themselves,"  answered 
Ghinka,  eagerly. 

Stefchoff  stared  at  her  with  astonishment. 

"  Well,  Ghinka,  I  suppose,  according  to  you.  Father 
Yordan's  done  wrong  ?  " 

"  No — ^he's  done  well ;  you've  both  done  well,  you  and 
father  !  My  word  !  one  would  think  you  were  Jews  or 
Turks,  not  Bulgarians  !  Don't  you  ever  think  what  made 
the  poor  fellows  go  out  on  the  mountains  to  die  ?  " 
Ghinka 's  face  flamed,  and  her  eyes  flashed. 

"  You're  mad,  girl,  you're  mad,"  said  her  sick  mother. 

*'  As  for  these  friends  of  yours,"  sneered  Stefchoff,  "these 
patriots  :  to  hear  you  talk,  we  ought  to  go  out  to  meet  them, 
to  send  the  school  children  to  sing  hymns  when  they  come, 
to  open  our  doors  to  them  and  cook  sweetmeats  for  them, 
like  some  people,  who  baked  biscuit." 

"  Yes,  I  know,  I  know,"  interrupted  the  enraged  Ghinka  : 
"  betray  them  to  the  Turks,  kill  them,  shoot  them,  drink 
their  blood,  like  you  did  to  those  poor  lads  yesterday  ! 
When  I  think  of  Kandofi's  poor  mother,  how  she  shrieked 
and  fainted  in  the  middle  of  the  road  !  Ah  !  Lalka,  dar- 
ling !     My  God— my  God  !  " 

And  Ghinka  sank  down  at  the  foot  of  a  walnut-tree  and 
sobbed  aloud,  with  her  handkerchief  to  her  eyes.  Her 
sudden  outburst  was  caused  by  the  thought  of  the  insur- 
gents who  had  been  shot  the  day  before,  but  those  present 
attributed  it  to  Lalka 's  death .  Rada  hastened  to  her  side  to 
comfort  her.  The  mention  of  her  daughter  had  also  dis- 
turbed Mother  Yordanitsa,  who  began  to  cry. 

Their  grief  drove  Stefchoff  wild  :  he  guessed  them  to  be 
crying  over  the  insurgents. 

The  zaptie,  who  understood  something  of  what  was  being 


AN  ALLY  277 

said,  approached  Stefchoff  and  Hajji  Simeon,  and  said  in  a 
low  voice  : 

"  Have  you  heard  ?  There's  another  Koumita  from 
Klissoura   come   down  the   mountain   to   the   Monastery 

''  What !  Who  told  you  so  ?  "  asked  Stefchoff  with  a 
start. 

"  The  gipsy  woman  Arabia  ;  she  saw  him  while  she  was 
gathering  herbs." 

"  When  ?  " 

"  To-day,  at  noon." 

"  Has  she  given  notice  about  it  ?  '* 

"  I  don't  know." 

"  Oh,  we  nMst  see  to  this  at  once,"  cried  Stefchoff, 
snatching  up  his  fez  from  the  grass  ;  '*  we  were  all  but  being 
put  to  fire  and  sword  to-day,  and  here  comes  another  bandit 
upon  us." 

"  That's  the  man,  I'll  be  bound,"  said  Hajji  Simeon 
suddenly. 

"  Who  ?  "  asked  Stefchoff. 

"  The  Count — didn't  I  say  he  was  alive  ?  " 

"  So  much  the  better — there'll  be  more  butchery." 

Hajji  Simeon  was  now  frightened  at  his  own  words,  spoken 
without  meaning  any  harm.     He  grew  pale. 

"  Kiriak,  are  you  going  ?  " 

"  Yes,  of  course." 

' '  What  business  is  it  of  yours  ?  Let  the  poor  fellow  alone, ' ' 
said  Hajji  Simeon,  in  tones  of  entreaty  :  "  we'll  find  some 
comer  in  the  whole  town  where  he  can  remain  hidden. 
Every  one  likes  the  Count." 

"  You're  mad,  Hajji,"  cried  Stefchoff  with  a  sudden  flash 
of  anger.     "  Bela  Cherkva  must  be  saved." 

And  without  bidding  farewell  to  the  company  he  hastened 
towards  the  town,  continuing  his  whispered  conversation 
with  the  zaptie,  who  accompanied  him  as  far  as  the  garden 
wall. 

Hajji  Simeon  stood  as  if  petrified. 

CHAPTER  IX  :    AN  ALLY 

Stepchoff's  sudden  departure  had  scarcely  been  noticed  by 
the  family,  who  were  all  busy  round  Yordanitsa,  trying  to 
comfort  the  old  lady. 


278  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  Missus,  you'd  better  be  off  into  the  garden.  I  see  our 
Turks  are  beginning  to  come  this  way  through  the  orchards," 
said  the  zaptie,  who  approached  and  took  his  rifle  before 
joining  Stefchoff,  who  was  waiting  for  him. 

Mother  Yordanitsa  rose  to  go  into  the  garden.  Ghinka 
supported  her  under  the  arms  as  she  w^alked,  the  others 
followed.  Last  of  all  came  Rada,  and  Staika  :  Staika 
pressed  her  friend's  hand  warmly  and  said,  "  Rada,  the 
teacher's  alive,  did  you  hear  ?  "  But  Rada  did  not  answer, 
being  seized  by  new  terrors.  For  some  presentiment  told 
her  that  this  fresh  victim  of  the  disaster  of  Klissoura,  who 
had  come  down  from  the  Balkan  that  day,  and  whom  Stef- 
choff  was  eager  to  betray  with  a  light  heart,  was  no  stranger 
to  her — ^that  it  was  he  himself  ;  and  her  heart  throbbed 
with  inexpressible  dismay. 

"  Why,  look  at  that  little  girl  running  alone  barefoot," 
cried  Staika,  pointing  to  a  little  girl  who  was  darting  across 
the  meadow. 

It  was  Marika.  The  child  was  returning  disconsolate, 
after  trying  vainly  for  several  hours  to  find  out  where  Dr. 
Sokoloff  was.  With  delight  she  saw  Rada,  the  only  friend 
of  Boicho's  whom  she  knew,  and  who  could  assist  her. 
Though  she  had  not  forgotten  Boicho's  instructions,  Marika 
felt  that  Rada  would  not  be  dangerous,  that  Boicho  had 
most  likely  forgotten  to  say  she  might  tell  Rada,  and  that 
there  was  no  harm  in  trusting  to  her. 

Rada  rose  to  meet  her. 

"  Come  here,  Marika.     What  is  it,  dear  ?  " 

The  little  girl  stopped,  looked  round  her  timidly,  and 
asked  : 

"  Rada,  dear,  do  you  know  where  the  doctor  is  ?  " 

"  Sokoloff,  dear  ?     No,  I  don't  know.     Is  anybody  ill  ?  " 

Marika  shook  her  head. 

"  Who  sent  you  for  the  doctor,  then,  dear  ?  " 

"  Rada,  dear  ;  it  was — Boi " 

Marika  in  her  terror  did  not  venture  to  complete  the  name. 

But  Rada  understood.  She  grew  pale,  and  tears  started 
to  her  eyes.  At  the  same  moment  Stefchoff  returned,  and 
fixed  his  piercing  eyes  on  Marika.  He  had  noticed  her, 
and  come  back  for  that  reason. 

"  What  have  you  got  in  your  hand,  little  girl  ?  "  he  asked. 

Marika  trembled.  She  started  back  guiltily,  and  hid  her 
hand  in  her  dress. 


AN  ALLY  279 

"  Give  me  the  paper  ;  I  want  to  see  it,"  he  said,  advanc- 
ing towards  her. 

The  girl  shrieked  wildly,  and  fifed  across  the  meadow 
towards  the  rose-gardens. 

A  dark  suspicion  formed  in  Stefchoff 's  mind.  He  guessed 
that  there  was  some  important  secret  in  the  letter  the  terri- 
fied child  was  trying  to  conceal :  he  had  also  recognised  old 
Stoyan's  orphan.  Why  had  she  come  to  Rada,  and  who 
could  have  sent  her  with  a  letter  at  such  a  moment  ?  Could 
it  be  from  Ognianofi,  and  was  he  the  rebel  who  had  come 
down  from  the  Balkan  ?  The  thought  made  his  face  beam 
with  evil  joy,  and  he  hastened  after  Marika. 

Rada,  sighing  deeply,  followed  Marika,  who,  seeing  the 
buffalo  drover  in  the  way,  turned  back  and  fled  in  the 
opposite  direction :  this  would  throw  her  right  into 
Stefchoff's  arms,  who  was  running  towards  her. 

Marika  saw  this  new  danger  and  shrieked  aloud,  as  if  to 
implore  assistance  against  her  cruel  pursuer. 

Staika  was  watching  this  scene  with  much  surprise.  She 
could  not  understand  why  Stefchoff  was  so  anxious  to 
secure  the  paper,  but  from  Rada's  face  she  saw  that  he 
must  at  any  cost  be  prevented  from  getting  hold  of  it.  The 
moment  she  understood  this  she  ran  like  a  hare  across  the 
meadow,  and  seizing  Stefchoff  by  the  coat-tails,  held  him 
firmly,  so  as  to  give  the  child  time  to  escape. 

Stefchoff  turned  round  and  saw  the  peasant-woman. 
Her  boldness  surpassed  all  belief. 

"  Guv'ner,  what  are  you  chasing  the  girl  for  ?  "  asked 
Staika  angrily,  holding  him. 

''  Let  me  go,  you  pig,"  shrieked  Stefchoff  in  a  fury,  strug- 
gling to  get  free.  "  Ah  !  I  see  it  all ;  she's  sent  you,  you 
infernal  village  hussy.  Kosta,  Kosta,  confound  you,  catch 
hold  of  h^* !  "  he  cried  to  Yordan's  drover,  who  had  been 
startled  by  Marika's  screams.  He  cut  off  her  fiight.  The 
poor  girl  stopped  in  terror  when  she  saw  this  fresh  pursuer, 
turned  back  like  a  frightened  fawn,  and  hid  herself  between 
the  buffaloes,  as  if  to  beg  for  protection  against  her  fellow 
human  creatures. 

Staika,  whose  wild  instincts  had  been  roused,  tried  to 
throw  herself  upon  Stefchoff  and  the  drover  at  the  same 
time  ;  they  stood  before  her  Hke  hens  facing  an  eagle,  but  a 
despairing ^sign  from  Rada  held  her  back. 

The  amazed  peasant  girl  did  not  dare  to  go  on.    She 


280  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

sorrowfully  watched  the  poor  child,  half  dead,  as  she  fell 
fainting  on  the  grass  by  the  buffaloes.  Ever  since  that 
terrible  night  in  the  mill  Marika  was  subject  to  hysterical 
fits  whenever  she  was  frightened.  One  of  the  buffaloes, 
who  was  standing  upright,  bent  his  great  head  over  the 
motionless  girl,  sniffed  gently  and  compassionately  at  her 
face,  and  raised  his  damp  nose  again,  looking  round  quietly 
and  unconcernedly  out  of  his  wide  blue  eyes. 

Stef choff  hastily  searched  Marika's  dress,  for  he  had  seen 
the  child  put  the  letter  away  there  as  she  fled.  But  he 
could  not  find  it.  They  hunted  all  over  the  field,  but  the 
paper  had  vanished,  as  if  it  had  sunk  into  the  ground. 

Stef  choff  turned  round  angrily. 

"  I  wonder  if  he's  swallowed  it,"  he  said,  looking  savagely 
at  the  buffalo. 

GoHo,  as  if  he  understood  that  he  was  suspected  of  theft, 
opened  his  huge  mouth  wide  ;  only  a  few  half-munched 
blades  of  grass  were  to  be  seen  in  his  capacious  jaws. 

Stef  choff  was  bewildered .  He  could  not  understand  what 
had  become  of  the  letter. 

*'  No  doubt  the  little  devil  has  dropped  it  somewhere  in 
the  field,"  he  said,  and  he  and  Kosta  began  to  search 
again. 

Marika  soon  came  to  herself.  Her  first  impulse  was  to 
feel  in  her  pocket ;  she  began  to  cry  when  she  found  nothing 
there.     The  poor  child  rose  and  went  away  sobbing. 

Stef  choff  and  the  drover  searched  for  a  long  time.  At 
last  Stef  choff  went  off  hurriedly  to  the  town.  He  had 
probably  found  the  letter.  As  he  passed  by  Rada  he 
muttered  with  a  savage  look  :  "  We'll  see  his  head  stuck  on 
a  pole  to-day." 

Rada,  overcome  with  dismay,  was  unable  to  move. 
Staika  stood  bolt  upright  by  the  buffaloes.  ,She  shared 
Rada's  fears,  but  could  not  understand  why  she  had  not 
been  allowed  to  help  Marika  to  escape.  She  still  looked 
fiercely  in  the  direction  in  which  Stefchoff  had  disappeared, 
while  she  unconsciously  stroked  Golio's  shaggy  neck. 

Golio  sniffed  at  the  hand  of  this  stranger  who  was  caress- 
ing him,  and  turned  away. 

"  Here's  the  letter,  Rada,"  she  cried,  picking  up  a  muddy 
scrap  of  paper  which  had  been  concealed  under  the  beast's 
hoof.  Golio  had  indeed  placed  his  foot  upon  it  while 
sniffing  over  the  fainting  Marika. 


LOVE  AND  HEROISM  281 

Rada  seized  the  letter,  unfolded  it  with  a  trembling  hand, 
and  glanced  at  it  hurriedly. 

"  From  Boicho  !  "  she  cried. 

She  pressed  her  hand  to  her  heart,  overcome  with  emotion. 

The  letter  consisted  of  two  lines  only  : 

"  I've  come  down,  the  Balkan.  Bring  or  send  me  clothes 
and  news  at  once." 

There  was  no  signature  to  the  letter. 

Rada  read  it  over  again  and  again  :  she  noticed  with 
emotion  that  these  words  were  written  on  the  blank  portion 
of  the  very  letter  she  had  sent  by  Eall-the-Bear  at  that 
frightful  moment.  Her  signature  "  Rada,"  in  pencil,  was 
still  on  the  other  side.     Her  tears  flowed  afresh. 

"  What  does  it  say  in  the  letter,  Rada  ?  "  asked  Staika. 

"  He's  alive — alive,  dear,"  exclaimed  Rada  with  a  sigh. 

Staika's  broad  face  grinned  all  over  with  joy. 

"  Teacher's  alive,  is  he,  Rada  ?  Didn't  I  tell  you  the  old 
cat  knew  nothing  about  it,  for  all  her  talk  about  the 
teacher  ?  " 

"  He's  alive,  dear,  he's  alive  ;  tell  Ghinka  I'm  not  well, 
and  that  I've  gone  home.     Don't  say  a  word  about  the 
letter  !  " 

And  she  went  towards  the  orchards. 


CHAPTER  X  :  LOVE  AND  HEROISM 
What  Rada  required  above  all  was  time  to  coUect  her 
thoughts,  and  to  take  a  rapid  decision.  She  crouched  be- 
hind some  neighbouring  bushes,  which  concealed  her  from 
view,  and  began  to  think  earnestly  what  she  should  do. 
Things  were  most  critical.  Boicho's  life  hung  on  a  single 
hair,  and  he  suspected  nothing,  for  it  could  only  have  been 
Boicho  whom  the  gipsy  had  seen  ;  yes,  yes,  it  must  have 
been  he.  He  must  at  once  be  informed  of  the  danger,  and 
be  supplied  with  the  means  of  escape.  For  her,  for  a  girl, 
this  was  no  easy  task  :  the  fields  were  now  deserted  except 
by  occasional  Bashi-bozouks  prowling  round  in  search  of 
plunder.  She  shuddered  at  the  thought  that  she  might 
encounter  some  of  these  semi-savages  :  but  Boicho's  life  was 
at  stake,  and  she  must  risk  everything.  Her  love  would 
brave  all  the  cruelty  of  fate  or  of  man.  Yes,  she  must  start 
at  once.  But  he  asked  for  clothes,  ordinary  clothes  of 
course,  the  clothes  of  some  peaceful  citizen,  so  as  to  avoid 


282  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

arousing  suspicion.  ProiDerly  disguised,  he  might  even 
enter  Bela  Cherkva.  This  was  a  great  difficult}^  Where 
could  she  find  such  clothes  ?  Who  would  incur  the  evident 
danger  of  lending  his  ?  Where  could  she  search  for  clothes 
when  every  moment  was  precious  !  Then  another  thought 
struck  her,  which  ought  to  have  occurred  to  her  from  the 
first :  where  was  Ognianoff  hidden  ?  The  letter  did  not 
say.  Probably  out  of  precaution  he  had  enjoined  Marika 
to  reveal  the  secret  only  verbally  to  Sokoloff.  And  now 
Marika  was  gone  !  Oh  !  why  had  she  not  thought  of  asking 
her  just  before  where  Boicho  was  ?  Thank  God,  at  least 
she  knew  he  was  in  the  valley  of  the  Monastery  ;  she  had 
heard  the  zaptie  say  so.  The  valley  of  the  Monastery  was 
immense,  but  she  would  find  Boicho  if  she  had  to  search 
every  inch  of  it.  But,  oh  dear  !  his  enemies  would  not  lose 
all  that  time  ;  they  knew  exactly  where  he  was  waiting  for 
the  reply  to  his  letter.  But  she  would  find  him  ;  she  would 
get  there  before  them,  long  before,  for  her  feet  would  be 
winged.  If  she  could  only  have  found  the  clothes,  and  they 
were  the  most  necessary  of  all !  My  God  !  and  time  was 
going  by  so  fast,  and  there  was  no  one  to  advise  her. 

All  these  thoughts  presented  themselves  to  her  in  a 
moment  with  lightning  rapidity.  She  resolved  to  leave  her 
hiding-place,  and  hasten  towards  the  valley  of  the  Monas- 
tery. But  first  of  all  she  looked  carefully  through  the 
bushes  towards  the  garden.  By  the  gate  she  saw  a  man 
standing  in  a  tall  fez,  dressed  in  a  suit  of  grey  tweed.  She 
took  him  at  first  for  Stefchoff .  But  no  ;  this  was  a  shorter 
man,  and  quite  different  in  appearance.  She  recognised 
blind  Kolcho.  Her  heart  quivered  with  joy,  although 
Kolcho,  being  blind,  could  be  but  of  little  service  to  her. 
But  at  least  she  would  discuss  the  matter  with  him.  God 
alone  could  have  sent  him  there. 

But  she  saw  with  dismay  that  Kolcho  was  already  passing 
through  the  gateway  into  the  garden. 

She  called  aloud : 

"  Kolcho  !  Kolcho  !  stop  !  "  and  darted  towards  him. 

Kolcho  heard  her  cry,  and  stopped. 

In  a  moment  Rada  was  at  his  side. 

"  Kolcho  !  " 

**  Rada  !     I  was  looking  for  you,"  said  the  blind  lad. 

And  drawing  near  to  her,  he  whispered  ; 

*'  Boicho's  alive  1 '' 


LOVE  AND  HEROISM  28^ 

"  Yes,  yes  ;  I  know  he  is,  Kolcho,"  said  Rada,  panting. 

"  He's  in  the  mountain,"  added  Kolcho. 

"  No,  Kolcho  ;  he's  come  down  into  the  Monastery  valley." 

Kolcho  started. 

"  What  do  you  mean,  Rada  ?  " 

"  He's  there,  he's  there  now,  Kolcho  ;  I've  just  had  a 
letter  from  him.  He  wants  clothes,  Kolcho,  he  must  have 
clothes.  They've  brought  word  to  the  Turks  ;  the  gipsies 
saw  him.  But  I'll  fly  to  him  and  warn  him.  He'll  escape. 
They  won't  catch  him  ;  but  wherever  he  goes  they'll  know 
he  belongs  to  the  rebels,  because  of  his  clothes.  My 
God  !  my  God  !  and  there's  no  time." 

While  Rada  sobbed  out  her  broken  ejaculations,  Kolcho 
was  thinking  :  he  had  hit  upon  a  plan. 

"  There's  clothes  to  be  had,  Rada,"  said  he. 

"  Oh,  Kolcho,  tell  me  where.     Where  can  we  find  them  ?  " 

"  Close  by,  at  a  friend's  house." 

"  Quick,  quick,  dear  !  " 

' '  Wait  here  haK  a  minute . " 

And  Kolcho  hurried  away. 

Rada  waited  impatiently  hidden  among  the  bushes.  Not 
more  than  a  minute  or  two  passed,  but  they  seemed  to  her 
hours.  Moreover,  she  was  trembling  lest  some  one  should 
come  out  of  the  gardens  and  find  her  there  alone  and  in 
that  state  of  excitement. 

She  groaned  aloud. 

But  at  that  moment  a  little  girl  came  towards  her  carrying 
a  bundle. 

The  blind  lad  had  placed  in  it  a  fez,  a  long  coat  and  a 
pair  of  trousers  of  grey  tweed.  He  had  been  wearing  them 
a  moment  before.  His  tender  solicitude  had  also  thought 
of  two  other  things  which  Rada  in  her  confusion  had  for- 
gotten :  in  the  pockets  he  had  put  a  loaf  of  bread  and  a 
hundred  piastres. 

But  Rada  did  not  even  look  at  the  bundle  :  she  took  it 
from  the  little  girl  and  hastily  went  northwards,  through  the 
orchard. 

"  My  God,  my  God  !  "  she  thought  to  herself  bitterly,  "  he 
doesn't  want  to  see  me  any  more  !  What  have  I  done  to 
him  ?     And  I  love  him  so." 

As  it  has  already  been  stated,  the  fields  were  deserted, 
not  a  single  Bulgarian  dared  to  venture  outside  the  town  : 
only  Bashi-bozouks  were  occasionally  to  be  seen  lurking 


284  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

there  ;  and  for  a  lonely  girl  the  danger  was  still  greater  and 
more  terrible. 

But  Rada  did  not  even  think  about  it. 

Love  has  only  one  thought — self-sacrifice. 

CHAPTER  XI :    THE  BASHI-BOZOUK 

Ognianoff,  hidden  in  the  deserted  mill,  was  awaiting  the 
appearance  of  some  friend,  or  at  least  of  Marika. 

The  dilapidated  mill,  which  was  crumbling  in  ruin,  stood 
solitary  at  the  topmost  end  of  the  stream,  not  far  from  the 
thundering  waterfall :  beyond  it  there  was  no  other 
building. 

In  its  walls  were  great  chasms,  where  the  doors  and 
windows  had  formerly  been,  and  a  part  of  the  roof  had  been 
carried  away  by  the  wind. 

The  breaches  in  the  walls  served  OgnianofE  as  portholes 
through  which  he  could  watch  the  path  which  followed  the 
stream  up  to  the  very  waterfall,  where  it  crossed  to  the 
other  side  and  wound  up  the  slope  to  the  mountain. 

Ognianoff  was  much  disturbed.  The  terrible  feeling  of  un- 
certainty grew  stronger  every  minute  :  his  anxiety  and  dis- 
may were  increasing.  He  could  not  understand  the  reason 
of  this  delay.  But  his  worst  fear  was  lest  Marika  should  not 
have  succeeded  in  finding  either  the  doctor  or  Brzobe- 
gounek,  who  were  perhaps  obliged  to  remain  in  hiding. 
He  never  for  a  moment  suspected  the  terrible  danger  which 
was  threatening  him.  He  could  not  guess  that  his  presence 
there  was  now  known  to  friends  and  foes  alike,  and  that  his 
fate  depended  upon  the  solution  of  the  question  who  should 
arrive  first,  the  former  or  the  latter. 

He  saw  some  one  coming  up  the  path,  to  his  dismay.  It 
was  a  Turk,  tall  and  powerfully-built,  with  a  green  turban 
round  his  fez  ;  a  long  yataghan  gleamed  in  his  belt ;  he  was 
dressed  in  a  blue  jacket  and  breeches,  and  carried  a  bundle 
on  his  back.  It  was  probably  one  of  the  Turks  of  whom 
Marika  had  spoken,  a  Bashi-bozouk. 

But  what  could  he  be  doing  there  ? 

Ognianoff  drew  his  revcftver  and  watched  the  stranger 
carefully. 

The  Bashi-bozouk  continued  up  the  path,  walking  with 
very  long  strides. 

He   gradually   approached   the   deserted   mill,  but  at 


THE  BASHI-BOZOUK  285 

fifty  paces  from  it  he  turned  off  and  passed  to  the  other 
side. 

Ognianoff  was  astounded  ;  but  he  was  obHged  to  remain 
silent  and  motionless.     He  could  only  wait  and  look  on. 

The  Turk  kept  on  his  way  up.  He  crossed  the  stream  on 
the  stepping-stones,  passed  through  the  tall  spreading  weeds 
at  the  foot  of  the  cliff,  and  stopped.  Ognianoff  noticed  that 
he  stopped  at  the  very  place  where  the  path  up  the 
mountain  began.  He  grew  pale.  This  path  was  the  only 
one  by  which  he  could  escape  to  the  Balkan  in  case  of  need. 
The  steep  and  jagged  rocks  were  quite  inaccessible  else- 
where. Could  this  man  have  come  to  cut  off  his  escape  ? 
was  he  followed  by  others  ? 

Just  then  the  Turk  took  off  his  turban,  one  end  of  which 
had  become  unrolled .  The  whole  of  the  Bashi-bozouk's  face 
and  head  were  thus  discovered  to  Ognianoff 's  gaze. 

He  now  saw  a  young  and  handsome  face  with  a  broad 
white  forehead,  over  which  the  thick  fair  hair  fell  in  curls. 

Ognianoff  involuntarily  uttered  a  cry  of  surprise — then, 
standing  at  the  empty- window  frame,  he  put  two  fingers  to 
his  mouth  and  whistled. 

The  shrill  sound  was  echoed  by  the  rocks. 

The  Bashi-bozouk  fixed  his  eyes  on  the  mill  from  whence 
the  sound  came  ;  he  saw  Ognianoff  beckoning  significantly, 
and  hastened  forward.     It  was  Sokoloff. 

The  two  friends  embraced  each  other  warmly. 

*'  What,  Boicho,  Boicho  !  you're  alive,  brother  ?  what 
are  you  doing  here  ?  "  cried  Sokoloff  moved  to  tears. 

"  And  you,  doctor,  in  this  get  up  ?  " 

"  What  are  you  doing  here  ?  when  did  you  come  ?  " 

"  Last  night — what  kept  you  so  long  ?  " 

"  Kept  me  ?  "  asked  Sokoloff  with  surprise. 

"  Yes — couldn't  Marika  find  you  at  first  ?  " 

"  Marika  !  who's  she  ?  " 

"  What— didn't  she  find  you  ?  "  cried  Ognianoff.  "  I 
sent  her  to  you  with  a  letter  this  morning." 

*'  She  didn't  find  me — nor  any  one  else  either — I  was  in 
hiding,"  answered  Sokolo^ff. 

Ognianoff  looked  at  him  with  surprise. 

"  What  for  ?  where  are  you  going  ?  " 

"  I  ?   I'm  flying." 

*'  Flying,  doctor  ?  " 

"  Yes — can't  you  see  by  my  clothes  ?  "  • 


286  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

"  And  when  did  you  leave  Bela  Cherkva  ?  " 

"  I  managed  to  get  out  last  night.  I've  been  hiding  all 
day  in  the  Hambaroff  mill." 

"  Fancy  !  we've  been  close  together  all  day  without  know- 
ing it.  How  strange  !  But  what  can  have  become  of 
Marika  ?  "  said  Ognianoff,  who  was  again  becoming 
anxious  ;   "  and  where  are  you  going  now  ?  " 

"  To  the  mountain.  I've  been  waiting  till  now  for  my 
passport  and  some  money.  But  now  I  won't  leave  you — 
we'll  live  or  die  together.  Ah  !  Boicho,  Boicho,  what 
terrible  misfortunes  have  come  upon  our  country  ;  who'd 
have  thought  it,  brother  ?  " 

"  Sit  down,  sit  down,  and  let's  talk." 

CHAPTER  XII :    THE  HISTORY  OF  AN 
UNREVOLTED  CITY 

Crouching  together  in  a  comer,  the  two  friends  related  to 
each  other  respectively  what  had  happened  at  Klissoura  and 
at  Bela  Cherkva  during  the  last  nine  days.  From  Sokoloff's 
words,  or  more  properly  report,  everything  now  became 
clear  to  Ognianoff.  Bela  Cherkva  had  in  truth  not  risen 
immediately  after  KHssoura.  It  had  not  risen  hke  so  many 
other  towns  and  villages  as  well  or  better  prepared  for  the 
revolt — everything  had  been  lost  through  the  premature 
outburst.  At  the  first  news  of  the  movement  at  Klissoura, 
the  committee  had  spHt  up  into  two  parties — the  first 
anxious  to  avoid  an  attack  being  made  on  the  town,  against 
which  they  would,  however,  defend  themselves,  but  deter- 
mined to  rise  only  in  case  reinforcements  were  sent  to  them 
from  outside  ;  the  second  of  opinion  that  the  standard  of 
revolt  should  be  raised  at  once,  come  what  might.  But  the 
majority  of  the  townspeople  decided  to  capitulate.  The 
extreme  members  of  the  committee,  who  wished  for  im- 
mediate action,  that  is  to  say,  the  doctor,  Popoloff,  and 
Bezporteff,  were  decoyed  into  Pope  Stavri's  outhouse  and 
locked  up  there,  and  a  deputation,  headed  by  Chorbaji 
Yordan,  was  sent  to  K.  to  express  submissive  and  loyal 
sentiments  on  behalf  of  Bela  Cherkva,  and  to  ask  for  a 
garrison  to  protect  them. 

The  Government,  somewhat  dismayed  at  the  revolt, 
joyfully  accepted  this  offer  and  sent  fifty  Bashi-bozouks  to 
Bela  Cherkva  to  collect  all  the  arms  in  the  city  and  defend 


THE  HISTORY  OF  AN  UNREVOLTED  CITY   287 

it  against  attack.  Soon  a  whole  heap  of  guns,  pistols  and 
daggers  were  piled  up  in  the  courtyard  of  the  Konak. 
This  lightning  conductor — the  capitulation — ^saved  Bela 
Cherkva.  Only  one  victim  was  sacrificed — Marko  Ivanoff, 
who  was  carried  off  to  Philippopolis  loaded  with  chains 
on  account  of  his  cherry-tree. 

Five  days  later,  a  banner  appeared  on  the  summit  of  the 
Balkans  ;  this  gave  rise  to  various  conjectures,  explanations 
and  rumours,  and  fresh  hopes  were  aroused.  There  was 
great  excitement :  it  was  said  that  several  thousand  in- 
surgents were  marching  from  the  Balkan  to  the  rescue  of 
Bela  Cherkva,  headed  by  Russian  and  Servian  officers. 
No  one  knew  positively  from  whence  this  unexpected 
succour  was  coming  :  it  seemed  to  be  falling  from  the  sky, 
Kableshkoff  had  so  often  spoken  of  a  mysterious  army  ready 
to  appear  at  the  appointed  time,  that  the  most  sceptical 
began  to  believe.  Every  one  looked  hopefully  at  the 
banner  on  the  summit  of  the  Balkan.  Some  even  averred 
that  they  could  see  men  with  guns  on  their  shoulders  on 
the  mountain  ridge — they  took  the  bushes  for  an  army. 
Others  whose  eyesight  was  still  sharper  could  distinguish 
Russians  among  them  by  their  great  shaggy  kalpaks. 
Then  Pope  Stavri  came  and  unlocked  his  outhouse,  and 
said  to  the  captives  : 

"  It's  a  sin  to  keep  you  under  lock  and  key  any  longer, 
children  ;  Micho  was  right !  Come  and  see  what  there  is 
on  the  mountain." 

The  three  prisoners  rushed  from  the  door.  Half  an  hour 
later  they  had  taken  possession  of  the  Konak,  Bey,  arms, 
garrison  and  all.  The  whole  city  was  in  ecstasy.  Bela 
Cherkva  had  revolted.  But  almost  immediately  terrible 
news  came,  which  struck  dismay  into  the  hearts  of  all.  A 
cattle  drover  had  come  down  with  all  speed  from  the  moun- 
tain, and  brought  word  that  there  was  no  one  at  all  on  the 
Balkan.  And  Tossoun  Bey  had  already  started  for  Bela 
Cherkva,  to  level  it  to  the  ground.  Meanwhile  the  panic 
was  doubled  by  the  news  of  the  fall  of  Klissoura,  brought 
by  three  fugitives,  who  had  come  down  from  the  mountain 
and  taken  refuge  at  the  school  in  the  upper  part  of  the 
town.  These  were  Kandoff,  who  was  wounded  in  the  arm, 
and  two  others  from  Klissoura.  The  old  housekeeper  took 
them  in  and  concealed  them  in  the  rafters  of  the  school 
house.    She  had  also  provided  them  with  bread,  for  they 


288  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

had  for  two  days  eaten  nothing  but  herbs  ;  and  at  their 
request  given  notice  of  their  arrival  to  Brzobegounek,  who 
had  brought  them  clothes,  fezzes,  and  tobacco.  They  had 
not  finished  their  first  cigarette  when  through  the  chinks  in 
the  roof  they  saw  that  the  school  was  surrounded  on  all 
sides  by  Turks.  Brzobegounek  happened  to  be  still  in  the 
rafters.  There  was  no  hope  of  escape.  The  Turks  began 
to  fire  at  the  roof  from  outside,  through  the  windows.  The 
two  men  from  Klissoura,  being  wounded,  fell  down  and  gave 
themselves  up.  They  were  cut  to  pieces  on  the  spot. 
Brzobegounek  managed  to  fire  his  revolver  twice,  and 
wounded  a  Turk,  but  fell  at  once  pierced  by  a  dozen  bullets. 
He  was  also  despatched.  Kandoff  alone  remained.  Every 
gun  was  levelled  at  the  spot  where  he  was  expected  to 
appear.  But  he  did  not  show  himself.  Suddenly  the 
rafters,  which  were  rotten,  gave  way,  and  Kandoff  fell  to 
the  ground.  He  rose  to  his  feet,  folded  his  arms,  and  cried  : 
"  Fire,  I'm  ready  for  you  !  " 

The  Turks  thought  he  was  the  commander  and  had 
surrendered,  as  he  spoke  in  Bulgarian  and  they  had  not 
understood  him.    They  waited. 

"  Fire,  you  savages,  other  Bulgarians  will  still  remain  !  " 
he  cried  again.  This  time  they  understood  what  he  meant. 
In  reply  thirty  guns  were  fired  at  once,  but  not  a  single 
bullet  seemed  to  have  touched  him.  He  rushed  down  the 
steps  and  made  for  the  church  through  the  courtyard. 
Again  they  fired  without  effect.  He  had  reached  the  church 
door,  when  two  bullets  struck  him  and  he  fell  in  the  church 
itself.  They  despatched  him  with  their  yatagans.  From 
there  they  hastened  in  search  of  the  doctor.  Several  citizens 
joined  the  Bashi-bozouks.  Dead  or  alive,  he  must  be 
found,  to  avert  Tossoun  Bey's  wrath  from  the  city  :  the 
doctor  must  be  sacrificed  to  save  Bela  Cherkva .  In  the  dark 
the  terrified  landlord  of  the  house  where  he  was  hidden 
turned  him  out.  The  band  of  pursuers  caught  sight  of  him 
in  the  street  and  followed  in  his  track,  but  he  managed  to  get 
a  start  of  them.  As  he  fled  along  the  long  Moukliss  street 
he  tried  the  doors  which  he  passed  in  the  hope  of  being 
able  to  slip  into  one  of  them  ;  but  every  door  was  firmly 
barred,  and  he  continued  his  flight.  When  he  reached  the 
market-place  it  seemed  to  him  that  there  were  now  two 
bands  pursuing  him,  for  he  saw  a  dozen  men  ahead  of  him 
barring  the  road.    He  turned  to  the  left  and  flew  down  a 


THE  HISTORY  OF  AN  UNREVOLTED  CITY    289 

side  street :  his  pursuers  lost  sight  of  him  and  he  was  able  to 
stop  for  a  few  seconds  to  rest  himself.  But  the  danger 
was  as  great  as  ever.  The  band  would  not  be  long  before 
searching  that  street  also,  and  at  best  there  was  but  little 
chance  of  his  escaping  their  bullets,  thanks  to  the  clearness 
of  the  night. 

To  try  to  get  out  of  the  town  was  hopeless.  Every  outlet 
was  closely  guarded  by  sentinels.  There  was  only  one  hope 
of  safety — to  take  refuge  in  the  house  of  some  friend.  For- 
tunately he  remembered  that  Pope  Dimcho's  house  was  close 
by.  He  hastened  to  it  and  knocked  at  the  door  :  it  was 
opened  by  Pope  Dimcho  himseK,  a  member  of  the  com- 
mittee. 

"  Pope,  hide  me  !  "  said  the  doctor. 

"  Impossible,  impossible,  doctor  !  You'll  be  seen  coming 
in  :  it'll  only  ruin  me  as  well,"  whispered  the  pope,  as  he 
gently  pushed  him  from  the  door.  In  truth,  Sokoloff  could 
hear  the  patrol  advancing  in  the  street  opposite.  He  fled 
wildly  back,  and  turned  into  a  bUnd  alley,  where  one  of  his 
relations  lived.  He  knocked  at  the  door,  and  implored  to 
be  admitted. 

Necho,  his  relative,  who  let  him  into  the  hall,  at  once  saw 
the  gravity  of  the  situation. 

"  Are  you  mad,  doctor  ?  Do  you  want  to  bum  my  house 
down  over  my  head  ?  You  know  I've  got  a  wife  and 
children."  And  with  these  words  he  opened  the  door  and 
led  him  out.  The  doctor  hastened  out  of  the  alley  into  the 
Petkanoff  street.  Fate  brought  him  face  to  face  with  his 
pursuers. 

"  If  you  don't  stop  we'll  fire  !  Stop,  doctor  !  "  cried  one 
of  the  constables  to  him  from  behind.  In  truth  Sokoloff 
did  stop,  but  not,  however,  where  the  zealous  Bulgarian 
constable  ordered  him  to.  He  knocked  at  Saratoff's  door — 
he  was  his  family  doctor  and  one  of  his  best  friends,  and 
resolved  to  try  his  luck  there  also. 

**  Who's  that  knocking  ?  "  asked  Sara  toff . 

The  doctor  answered. 

But  Saratoff's  only  reply  was  to  bolt  the  door  more 
carefully,  and  not  another  sound  was  heard  from  inside. 


290  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

CHAPTER  XIII :    THE  HISTORY  CONTINUED 

*'  What  a  disgrace  !    My  God  ! ''  groaned  Ognianoff,  much 
distressed. 

"  I  tell  you  there's  a  panic  in  the  town,  brother  ;  nothing 
but  cowardice  and  treachery  on  every  side.     It's  no  longer 
the  same  Bela  Cherkva,"  said  Sokoloff  gloomily. 
Ognianoff  drew  a  deep  sigh. 

"  Cowardice  and  treachery,  you  say  ?  They're  the 
natural  offspring  of  our  ill-fated  revolution.  They  follow 
behind  it,  as  wolves  and  crows  do  the  battle  army.  And 
who  put  the  flag  on  the  top  of  the  mountain  ?  " 

"  I  don't  know." 

"  Who  do  you  think  did  ?  " 

"  The  Turks,  they  say." 

Ognianoff  looked  at  him  with  surprise. 

"  Yes,  the  Turks,"  continued  the  doctor,  "  because  it 
was  seen  on  the  previous  day,  when  Tossoun  Bey  left 
Klissoura  to  fall  on  Bela  Cherkva  with  the  intention  of 
destroying  it.  He  was  heard  threatening  to  do  so  before 
he  left  Klissoura  :  he  was  only  looking  out  for  some 
pretext.  No  doubt  it  was  for  the  same  reason  that  they 
spread  reports  of  the  great  army  that  was  coming  to  relieve 
us,  instead  of  which  we  got  Tossoun." 

"  Then  he's  at  Bela  Cherkva  to-day  ?  " 

"  Yes." 

"  No  doubt  frightful  scenes  are  going  on  there  !  "  cried 
Ognianoff  excitedly. 

"  Well,  more  shameful  than  frightful,"  repHed  the  doctor  ; 
"  the  man  I  sent  to  the  town  to-day  brought  back  word  that 
Tossoun  Bey  had  spared  Bela  Cherkva  because  they  sent 
a  deputation  to  receive  him  in  state.  He  saw  them  piling 
up  a  whole  heap  of  arms  in  the  courtyard  of  the  Konak, 
brought  in  by  the  townspeople  themselves — the  cherry-tree 
cannon  was  there  too.  Ah  !  poor  Marko  !  I'm  sorry  for 
him  most  of  all !  " 

Ognianoff  sighed. 

"  Yes,  poor  Marko  !  that's  the  worst  of  all.  He  was  the 
victim  of  some  loathsome  treachery — so  was  Kandoff," 
added  Sokoloff. 

"  Yes.  Who  betrayed  Kandoff  and  his  comrades  ?  " 
asked  Ognianoff,  while  deep  wrinkles  formed  on  his  brow. 

"  I  forgot  to  tell  you — ^it  was  Yordan  Diamandieff  ;  the 


THE  HISTORY  CONTINUED  291 

stupid  old  woman  went  and  told  the  pope  secretly,  and  the 
pope  told  Yordan.  He  stood  there  himself,  urging  on  the 
bashi-bozouks — '  Fire,  what  are  you  waiting  for  ?  We 
won't  have  brigands  and  traitors  in  our  city.'  " 

*'  My  God,  my  God  !  Poor  Kandoff  !  I  saw  him  fighting 
at  the  fort  at  Klissoura  like  a  hero,  and  like  a  hero  he  fell ! 
What  a  frightful  shock  it  was  when  I  saw  his  corpse  last 
night !     But  how  did  you  get  away,  after  all  ?  " 

"  I  managed  to  get  taken  into  a  house  at  last.  By  this 
time  I  expect  they've  got  the  hue-and-cry  out  against  me 
at  Bela  Cherkva.     Let  them  catch  me  if  they  can  !  " 

"  What  are  your  intentions  now,  doctor  ?  where  are  you 
going  ?  " 

"  To  Roumania,  of  course." 

"  Yes,  I'd  thought  of  going  there  too,  but  the  flag 
made  me  come  down  from  the  mountain." 

"  As  it's  made  me  go  towards  it.  But  you  can't  go  in 
that  cloak,  and  you've  got  no  hat !  " 

"  That's  why  I  sent  Marika  to  you  with  a  letter  asking 
you  to  bring  me  things  to  go  in.  It's  strange  she  should  be 
so  long." 

"  That  doesn't  matter,"  said  the  doctor.  "  As  soon  as 
it's  dark  we  can  go  to  the  Hambaroff  mill,  and  old  Lilko  will 
give  us  everything  we  want.  Fortunately,  I  happen  to 
have  an  old  passport ;  that'll  do  for  you.  And  there's  food 
in  the  bundle." 

"  That's  splendid.  But  I  didn't  come  here  to  escape 
again.     I  came  in  the  hope  of  finding  a  rebellion." 

"  Well,  it's  missed  fire,"  said  the  doctor,  bitterly.  *'  All 
we  could  do  was  to  get  into  this  mess." 

"  Haven't  you  any  news  from  elsewhere  ?  " 

''  Only  vague  rumours  :  there's  the  same  tale  on  all 
sides.  The  revolt  didn't  spread,  and  ended  in  disaster. 
You  know  more  about  it  than  I  do." 

"  Yes  ;  from  this  mountain  I've  seen  twenty  villages 
blazing  at  the  same  time,"  said  Ognianoff. 

"  Ah,  brother,  the  nation  wasn't  ripe  for  this  kind  of  thing. 
We  made  a  terrible  mistake,"  said  the  doctor  ;  *'  and 
Bulgaria's  paying  dearly  for  it  now — ^so  many  victims,  and 
all  in  vain  !  " 

'*  Mistake  ?  of  course  we  were  mistaken.  But  the 
revolution  and  the  victims  were  bound  to  be.  I  could 
even  have  wished  they  were  more  numerous  and  more 


292  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

terrible.  We  can't  destroy  Turkey  by  force  of  arms,  but 
we  can  gain  the  sjrmpathies  of  the  world,  at  least,  by  our 
frightful  sufferings,  by  our  martyrdom,  by  the  rivers  of 
blood  that  are  now  flowing  in  Bulgaria.  It's  a  sign  of  our 
existence,  at  least.  No  one  troubles  about  the  dead — only 
the  living  have  a  right  to  life.  If  the  Governments  of 
Europe  don't  take  action  on  our  behaK,  they  don't  deserve 
to  be  called  Christian  and  civilised.  It's  all  the  same — if 
nothing  had  happened  we  should  have  had  nothing  to  regret. 
We've  carried  out  a  human  obligation  ;  we  tried  to  purchase 
our  liberty  with  our  blood — we  failed.  It's  matter  for 
regret,  but  there's  nothing  to  be  ashamed  of.  The  shame, 
the  crime,  will  be  for  us  if  we  remain  with  our  arms 
folded — ^if  we  trample  on  our  faUen  idol — if  we  forget  the 
blood  and  the  flames  that  cover  Bulgaria  to-day  !  " 

"  Ognianoff,"  said  the  doctor  after  a  short  pause,  "  it 
seems  to  me  that  there's  no  one  who  thinks  so  except  us 
two  :  the  whole  of  Bulgaria  is  cursing  us  as  the  authors  of 
her  misfortunes.  Or,  Usten — everybody  thinks  Stefchoff 
the  real  liberator." 


CHAPTER  XIV  :    A  SERIOUS  CONVERSATION 
This  was  the  first  time  Stefchoff's  name  had  been  men- 
tioned.    Ognianoff  frowned. 

"  Do  you  mean  to  say  that  contemptible  creature's  still 
alive  ?  " 

"  Contemptible  creature  ?  Stefchoff's  the  wisest,  the 
proudest,  most  respected  man  in  the  town  now,"  said  the 
doctor.  "  He  and  Yordan  are  triumphant — ^he  passes  as 
the  saviour  of  the  city,  while  they'd  shoot  us  down  like 
dogs  if  they  saw  us." 

*'  Never  mind,  he's  a  base  and  cowardly  creature.  How 
unhappy  poor  Lalka  must  be." 

"  What !  don't  you  know  ?     Lalka's  dead." 

"  Dead  ?  you  don't  say  so  !  " 

"  She  died  on  the  18th  of  April,"  muttered  the  doctor  ! 

'*  How  much  sorrow  in  such  a  short  time  !  He  must 
have  killed  her,  the  scoundrel !  "  cried  Ognianoff. 

*' Yes,  he  killed* her — a  few  months  with  him  were 
enough." 

Ognianoff,  much  moved,  seized  him  by  the  hand. 


I 


A  SERIOUS   CONVERSATION  293 

"  Ah  !   brother,  we're  both  equally  unhappy." 

The  doctor  looked  at  him  inquiringly. 

"  Lalka,  the  being  you  loved  is  now  in  the  grave,"  added 
Boicho,  sorrowfully  ;  "  and  the  other  being  I  loved  is  in 
the  grave,  lost  to  me  for  ever." 

"  No,  your  Rada's  alive,  she's  at  Bela  Cherkva  !  "  cried 
the  doctor,  eagerly. 

"  Alive  ?  yes,  she's  alive — but  dead  to  me." 

The  doctor  looked  at  him  with  surprise. 

"  Yes,  dead  to  me  for  ever,"  repeated  Boicho,  gloomily. 
"  Poor  Kandoff !  God  rest  his  soul !  Why  did  I  survive 
him  ?  " 

The  doctor's  astonishment  was  increasing. 

"  Boicho,  do  you  mean  to  say  you  quarrelled  with  Kandoff 
at  Klissoura  ?  " 

''  Yes,  to  the  death." 

'' About  Rada?" 

Ognianoff  frowned.  "  Don't  let's  talk  about  that,"  he 
said. 

"  Are  you  mad,  Boicho  ?  To  suspect  Rada  ?  The 
thing's  absurd  !  " 

"  Absurd  ?  I  thought  her  innocence  itself,  brother — and 
what  was  the  end  of  it  ?  "  groaned  Ognianoff.  "  I  believed 
in  her.  I  loved  her  so  ardently.  My  country  seemed  dearer 
to  me  then,  my  confidence  in  myself  greater,  my  courage 
unbounded  !  And  what  awakening  !  Just  fancy.  Well, 
I  need  only  tell  you  that  I  fought  at  Klissoura,  not  with  the 
hope  of  repulsing  the  enemy,  but  to  meet  death  in  the  field. 
Don't  talk  about  it !  "  and  Ognianoff  bent  his  head  to  the 
ground. 

"  You're  deceived.  Rada  loved  you  faithfully,  and  still 
loves  you  ;  but  she's  very  unhappy,  and  unjustly  accused — 
by  you  first  of  all,"  said  the  doctor  with  displeasure. 

Ognianoff  threw  a  reproving  glance  at  him. 

"  Doctor,  for  the  sake  of  poor  Kandoff 's  memory,  don't 
talk  any  more  about  this  sad  business." 

"  It's  precisely  Kandoff 's  memory  that  I  wish  to  clear 
from  your  suspicion.  Don't  imagine  that  he  acted  treacher- 
ously. True,  he  fell  in  love  with  Rada.  As  you  know,  he 
was  passionate,  and  easily  carried  away.  His  inexplicable 
infatuation  made  him  give  up  society,  the  committee,  and 
everything — but  all  this  had  no  effect  on  Rada's  feelings, 
and  he  never  insulted  her  with  any  improper  proposal.    She 


294  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

never  told  you  of  it  from  feelings  of  modesty,  but  she  often 
complained  to  Lalka  of  Kandoff's  pla tonic  attention.  Ah  ! 
now  I  think  of  it,  here's  the  letter  he  wrote  her  on  the  19th 
of  April,  the  day  he  followed  her  to  Klissoura.  Netkovitch 
gave  it  to  me.     Read  it." 

And  Sokoloff  drew  Kandoff's  letter  from  his  pocket-book, 
and  gave  it  to  Ognianoff . 

Boicho  glanced  hurriedly  over  it.  His  eyes  filled  with 
tears.     An  expression  of  joy  at  once  lighted  up  his  face. 

"  Thanks,  Sokoloff,  your  words  have  taken  a  terrible  load 
ojff  my  heart.  This  is  not  the  language  of  a  favoured  lover  ; 
it's  the  despairing  confession  of  one  who  knows  he  has  no 
hope.  How  could  I  ever  have  suspected  her  ?  Thanks, 
thanks,  you  have  restored  me  to  my  senses  ;  you've  given 
me  new  life." 

"  Poor  Rada,  how  happy  she'd  be  if  she  knew.  I  wasn't 
able  to  see  her,  but  I  heard  she  was  in  despair  for  you,  of 
course,  since,  like  every  one  else,  she  thought  you  dead. 
Write  her  a  line  or  two  before  we  go,  to  comfort  her,  poor 
thing." 

*'  How  do  you  mean  write  to  her  ?  " 

"  Why,  humanity  demands  it." 

"  No,  humanity  demands  not  that  I  should  write  to  her, 
but  that  I  should  go  to  her  and  ask  pardon  of  her  on  my 
knees.  I've  been  cruel  to  Rada  to  the  degree  of  cowardice," 
cried  Ognianoff. 

"  Yes,  I'd  have  advised  the  same,  only  now  it's  im- 
possible." 

''  Impossible  or  not,  I'm  going,"  said  Ognianoff  resolutely. 

*'  What,  you'll  go  to  Bela  Cherkva  ?  "  cried  the  doctor, 
astounded.  "  Oh  !  it's  absolute  madness.  I  tell  you  the 
town's  ablaze.  Yordan  and  Stefchoff  are  saviours  there  now. 
You're  only  exposing  yourself  to  certain  destruction  !  " 

"  Doctor,  you  ought  to  know  that  I  care  little  for  my  life 
when  my  honour's  at  stake.  Tossoun's  entire  army  couldn't 
keep  me  back.  I  must  beg  pardon  of  my  suffering  Rada 
for  my  cruel  conduct,  which  led  her  to  the  desperate 
resolution  of  putting  an  end  to  her  life  in  the  ruins  of 
Klissoura . "  m  M^  If  ^ 

And  in  two  words  Ognianoff  described  the  incident. 

*'  Then  I  won't  restrain  you,  brother,"  said  the  doctor, 
with  emotion. 

Ognianoff  thought  for  a  moment  and  added  quietly : 


THE  MEETING  295 

"  Besides — that's  not  all :  Rada's  mine ;  I  plighted  my 
faith  to  her  before  I  left  her  here  for  the  last  time.  I  plighted 
my  faith  to  her  before  God,  and  instead  of  a  ring  we  ex- 
changed solemn  vows.  I  can't  leave  her,  you  see,  and  if  I 
should  reach  Roumania  safely  I  should  send  for  her  to  share 
the  poverty,  want,  and  sufferings  which  make  up  the  life  of 
an  emigrant.  Oh  !  how  gladly  she  would  come  to  share  my 
lot,  as  she  shared  it  here.  She's  a  heroine  in  her  love, 
doctor,  and  I  wouldn't  give  up  her  heart  for  the  whole 
world." 

The  doctor's  emotion  was  visible  on  his  face. 

"  As  soon  as  it's  dark  I'll  be  off,  and  this  very  night  I'll  be 
back  again,  safe  and  sound,  I  promise  you.  Now  I  don't 
want  to  die,  doctor,  for  Rada  still  lives  for  me,  and  Bulgaria 
is  not  yet  freed  !  " 

CHAPTER  XV  ;    THE  MEETING 

The  doctor  was  peering  through  a  hole  in  the  wall. 

*'  There's  some  one  coming,"  he  said  ;  "it  must  be 
Marika." 

Ognianoff  turned  and  glanced  down  the  vaUey. 

"  No,  it's  not  Marika  ;  she's  not  so  tall,  and  had  a  blue 
dress  on." 

"  This  one's  in  black,  carrying  a  bundle." 

"  It's  Rada,"  cried  Ognianoff  with  a  start. 

The  doctor  shared  his  surprise. 

Ognianoff  drew  himself  up  at  full  length  in  the  doorway 
of  the  mill,  and  beckoned  with  both  hands. 

Rada,  who  for  some  time  had  been  wandering  over  the 
rocks,  hunting  for  Boicho,  now  caught  sight  of  him.  She 
flew  towards  him,  and  was  in  the  mill  in  a  moment. 

"  Rada  !  "  he  cried. 

"  Oh,  Boicho,  Boicho !  "  she  sobbed,  half  fainting, 
pressing  her  lips  to  his  cheek.  The  doctor  watched  the 
scene  with  deep  emotion. 

"  And  how  is  it  you're  here,  Rada  darling  ?  "  asked 
Ognianoff  as  soon  as  he  had  mastered  his  feelings. 

"  Marika  brought  me  the  letter  you'd  given  her  for  the 
doctor.  Ah,  Boicho  !  why  are  you  so  cruel  to  me  ?  "  said 
Rada,  amid  tears  of  joy.  "  You're  not  angry  with  me  now, 
are  you  ?  You'd  no  right  to  be  angry,  you  know,  don't 
you  ?  " 

"  Forgive  me,  pet,  forgive  me  !  "  and  Boicho  kissed  her 


296  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

hands.  "  Sokoloff's  just  been  showing  me  how  mad  IVe 
been  ;  it's  terrible  to  think  of  !  I  was  coming  to  the  town 
to  ask  you  to  forgive  me  for  my  cruelty.  I'm  unworthy  of 
the  love  of  an  angel  like  you.  But  you'll  forget  and  forgive, 
won't  you,  Rada  ?  "  And  Ognianoff  gazed  anxiously  at  her 
eyes,  moist  with  boundless  love  and  devotion. 

But  Rada  suddenly  grew  as  pale  as  a  ghost,  started  up 
from  Boicho's  side,  and  exclaimed  : 

"  Fly,  Boicho  !  I  forgot  to  tell  you.  Fly  !  You've  been 
seen  here,  the  Turks  are  coming  !  " 

OgnianofE  and  SokoloiGE  were  thunderstruck. 

"  Quick,  quick,  fly  to  the  mountain  !  "  cried  Rada  in 
terror. 

"  What  ?  "  cried  Sokoloff,  who  could  not  believe  his  ears. 

"  A  gipsy  woman  saw  you  and  came  and  brought  word, 
before  I  even  met  Marika.  As  I  was  coming  here  I  saw  a 
whole  band  of  bashi-bozouks  going  towards  the  vineyards  ; 
they've  blocked  the  road,  they're  coming  after  you,  Boicho. 
My  God  !  I  forgot  to  tell  you,  the  first  thing.  I  lost  a 
whole  hour  looking  for  you  in  the  valley.  We'll  meet  some 
other  time.    Fly,  fly  I  '* 

In  spite  of  the  presence  of  mind  for  which  Ognianoff  was 
remarkable  at  critical  moments,  he  was  quite  overwhelmed 
by  this  terrible  news  coming  at  such  a  joj^ul  hour  as  this,  at 
his  unexpected  meeting  with  Rada,  comeHer  and  more 
charming  than  ever  in  the  light  of  her  heroic  love  :  he  was 
unable  to  take  a  rapid  decision.  He  felt  powerless  to  part 
from  her  at  such  a  moment.     And  time  was  precious. 

"  Fly — ^yes  !  but  what  about  you  ?  "  said  Boicho. 

"  Never  mind  about  me  ;  I  shall  be  all  right — only  fly, 
quick  !  Take  this,  the  clothes  are  in  it,  but  fly,  Boicho  ! 
Farewell,  we'll  meet  again,  if  you'll  only  fly.  Boicho,  dear 
Boicho — ^farewell !  " 

And  Rada,  handing  Ognianoff  the  bundle,  seized  him  by 
the  arm  and  forced  him  to  the  doorway. 

"  No,"  said  Ognianoff  resolutely  ;  "  I  can't  leave  you  like 
this.     If  these  savages  get  hold  of  you " 

"  Oh  !  Boicho,  they're  coming  !  " 

*'  Yes,  and  if  they  find  you  alone  in  this  wild  spot,  those 
brutes  !     No,  better  die  here  defending  you  !  " 

But  Boicho  saw  at  once  the  madness,  the  complete  use- 
lessness  of  this  desperate  resolution.  He  asked  Rada 
abruptly : 


THE   PARTING  297 

"  Rada,  will  you  go  with  us  ?  " 

To  this  most  unexpected  proposal  Rada  replied  .with 
rapture  : 

"  Of  course,  Bolcho  !  I'll  go  with  you  to  the  ends  of  the 
earth.     Let's  fly,  Boicho  !  " 

Ognianoff's  eyes  flashed. 

*'  If  we  can  only  get  to  the  '  Little  Chair  '  behind  the 
waterfall,  I  can  keep  them  there  the  whole  evening,  while 
you  take  Rada  up  the  mountain,"  said  Sokoloff. 

In  truth  behind  the  waterfall  there  was  a  narrow 
pass,  strewn  with  sharp  jagged  rocks,  and  known  as  the 
"  Little  Chair,"  from  which  a  well-armed  man  could  keep 
a  whole  battalion  at  bay  ;  it  was  the  only  path  up  the 
mountain. 

There  was  no  time  to  be  lost. 

"  To  the  mountain  !  "  cried  Ognianoff. 

And  he  was  the  first  to  reach  the  doorway,  from  which  he 
cast  a  searching  glance  round  the  valley. 

CHAPTER  XVI :    THE  PARTING 

It  was  too  late. 

On  the  opposite  bank  the  sharp  rocks  were  black  with 
Turks .  They  were  taking  up  their  position  behind  the  boul- 
ders and  bushes  there,  and  only  their  heads  and  the  barrels 
of  their  guns  were  visible.  On  the  summit  stood  a  figure 
in  white  trousers  pointing  towards  the  mill.  It  was  the 
gipsy  woman.  The  Turks  were  already  swarming  up  the 
cliff  on  which  the  mill  stood. 

Ognianoff  and  the  doctor  saw  that  they  were  surrounded, 
and  did  not  even  think  of  escaping — it  was  impossible. 

The  Turks  continued  to  advance  with  precaution,  taking 
advantage  of  every  shelter  afforded  by  the  rocks  and  bushes  : 
there  were  about  a  hundred  of  them. 

The  path  leading  down  to  the  valley  was  stiU  open. 

Boicho  turned  to  Rada  and  said  : 

"  Rada,  go  down  the  path  along  the  stream." 

But  just  then  a  terrible  thought  darkened  his  face,  and 
he  said  : 

"  No,  better  stay  here." 

The  same  decision  was  expressed  on  Rada's  face. 

"  With  you,  with  you,  Boicho,"  she  faltered,  with  her 
hands  folded  across  her  breast. 


298  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

So  much  grief,  love,  and  devotion  could  be  read  in  her 
moist  glance  !     Such  readiness  to  die  ! 

Ognifetnoff  and  Sokoloff  counted  up  their  cartridges. 

"  Eighteen,"  said  the  doctor. 

"  Enough  to  die  honourably,"  said  Ognianoff  in  a  whisper. 

Tossoun  Bey  commanded  the  attack  in  person.  Before 
appearing  on  the  cliff  he  had  placed  a  guard  in  the  valley, 
and  so  completely  surrounded  the  rebels,  or  rather  the  rebel, 
for  he  was  convinced  that  onlj^  Ognianoff  was  inside. 

Before  giving  the  word  to  fire,  Tossoun  Bey  ordered  a 
final  appeal  to  be  made. 

"  Surrender,  Konsoloss  Komita,"  was  cried  in  Turkish. 

Only  the  echoes  replied. 

Rada  crouched  half  fainting  in  a  corner. 

"  Courage,  Rada,"  said  Boicho  mournfully. 

She  made  a  motion  with  her  hand,  as  though  to  say  "  I 
was  afraid  at  Klissoura  because  I  was  outcast  and  alone. 
Now  I'm  not  afraid  of  dying  with  you,  as  you  love  me.  You 
shall  see." 

Boicho  understood  the  heroic  meaning  of  this  dumb 
answer,  and  his  eyes  grew  moist. 

Meanwhile  the  moments  were  passing  by.  Ognianoff 
and  Sokoloff,  leaning  closely  against  the  walls  for  pro- 
tection, held  their  revolvers  tight.  They  glanced  towards 
the  two  cliSs,  from  which  they  expected  every  moment 
to  hear  the  report  of  the  guns. 

A  minute  passed  by,  evidently  the  respite  allowed  by 
Tossoun  Bey. 

Then  from  the  eastern  and  western  sides  of  the  gorge 
alike  there  was  a  roar  of  musketry.  The  besieged  heard 
the  bullets  whistle  over  their  heads  and  through  the  holes 
in  the  masonry,  and  fall  flattened  at  their  feet. 

The  valley  of  the  Balkan  re-echoed  the  sound. 

Suddenly  the  firing  ceased. 

In  spite  of  its  many  breaches,  the  building  had  sheltered 
the  three  unfortunates.  Not  one  of  them  had  been 
touched.  Only  Rada  had  sunk  to  the  ground,  unconscious  : 
the  poor  child's  courage  had  deserted  her.  Her  hood  had 
fallen  off,  and  her  dark  hair  rolled  in  waves  over  her 
shoulders  and  in  the  dust. 

A  second  volley  would  not  be  long  in  coming,  and  Rada, 
as  she  lay  there,  was  exposed  to  the  bullets. 

Ognianoff  stooped,  raised  her  in  his  arms,  and  carried  her 


THE  PARTING  299 

into  the  most  sheltered  corner,  where  he  laid  her,  placing 
the  bundle  under  her  head  ;  but  she  did  not  recover — she 
lay  unconscious  and  insensible  of  all  that  was  going  on 
round  her.  And  before  that  fair  pale  face,  with  its  closed 
eyes  and  bloodless  lips,  that  graceful  and  charming  figure 
lying  in  the  dust,  a  terrible  inexpressible  sorrow  filled  his 
heart  as  he  thought  of  the  fast  approaching  moment  when 
he  must  part  for  ever  from  the  hapless  girl  who  had  united 
her  lot  with  his  own,  and  whom  his  hand  could  soon  no 
longer  defend  from  the  unutterable  fate  which  was  in  store 
for  her. 

"  Hadn't  I  better  kill  her  myseK  ?  "  he  thought. 

As  no  reply  was  received  from  the  mill,  the  besiegers 
became  bolder,  and  advanced  to  the  bottom  of  the  cliff. 
The  circle  round  the  mill  was  growing  narrower,  and  the 
moment  for  decisive  action  was  rapidly  advancing. 

"  Surrender,  Komita  !  "  they  cried  again. 

There  was  no  answer. 

Suddenly  a  storm  of  bullets  burst  upon  the  mill.  As 
the  volley  grew  louder  the  Turks  approached  still  nearer. 
From  the  continued  silence,  they  came  to  the  conclusion 
that  the  concealed  rebel  was  unarmed.  Bullets  rained  upon 
the  walls. 

The  Turks  were  now  quite  close.  The  time  was  at  hand. 
Ognianoff  stood  upright  at  one  window,  the  doctor  in  the 
doorway. 

They  looked  at  one  another,  and  each  discharged  his 
revolver  into  the  surging  mass  of  the  enemy.  The  un- 
expected rejoinder  brought  three  Turks  to  the  ground,  and 
revealed  the  force  of  the  mill.  The  Turks  saw  that  there 
was  more  than  one  rebel  there.  This  confused  them,  but 
only  for  a  moment.  The  victors  of  Klissoura  rushed  with  a 
shout  at  the  building.  Some  aimed  from  the  banks  at  the 
openings  in  the  walls,  so  as  to  prevent  the  defenders  from 
appearing  there  and  firing  at  the  attacking  party.  The 
struggle  could  not  last. 

"  Doctor,  we're  done  for  :  farewell  forever,  brother,"  said 
Boicho. 

"  Farewell,  brother  !  " 

"  Doctor,  not  one  of  us  must  fall  into  their  hands  alive  !  " 

"  No,  not  one  of  us.  I've  got  four  cartridges  left.  I'm 
keeping  one  for  myself." 

"  I'm  keeping  two,  doctor,"  and  Ognianoff  involuntarily 


300  UNDER  THE  YOKE 

turned  towards  Rada.  She  lay  there  still,  but  her  face  had 
become  deathlike  in  its  pallor  ;  from  her  left  breast  a  thin 
stream  of  blood  was  quietly  trickling  down  over  her  dress. 
A  bullet  had  glanced  off  the  wall  and  struck  her.  She  had 
passed  from  unconsciousness  into  eternal  slumber. 

Then  Boicho  left  his  post  and  drew  near  to  her  :  he  knelt 
down,  took  her  cold  hands  in  his,  and  imprinted  one  long 
kiss  on  her  icy  lips  ;  he  kissed  her  forehead,  her  wondrous 
loving  eyes,  her  hair,  and  her  wound  where  the  blood  was 
flowing.  If  he  uttered  any  sound,  murmured  a  last  farewell 
in  that  last  kiss,  whispered  a  "  Good-bye  till  we  meet  again, 
Rada,"  it  could  not  be  heard  in  the  roar  of  the  guns  outside 
and  the  pattering  of  the  bullets  within.  He  wrapped  her  in 
his  cloak.  When  Boicho  rose,  tears  were  flowing  down  his 
cheeks. 

A  whole  ocean  of  sorrow  was  in  those  tears. 

Perhaps — ^who  knows  ? — there  was  mingled  also  a  warm 
feeling  of  gratitude  to  Providence  ! 

CHAPTER  XVII :  DESTRUCTION 
During  this  last  mute  farewell,  which  lasted  only  half  a 
minute,  Sokoloff  was  facing  alone  the  hundred  assailants. 
Suddenly  he  turned  round  and  saw  Rada.  Then  his  hair 
stood  on  end,  his  eyes  flashed  like  a  tiger's,  and  heedless 
of  the  danger,  he  drew  himself  up  at  full  length  in  the 
doorway,  as  though  mocking  at  the  bullets,  while  he  cried 
in  the  purest  Turkish  : 

"  You  cursed  dogs  !  you  shall  pay  dearly  for  every  drop 
of  Bulgarian  blood  !  "  and  he  discharged  his  revolver  into 
the  thick  of  the  crowd. 

With  redoubled  frenzy  the  horde  now  rushed  at  the  im- 
pregnable fortress — ^for  such  the  ruined  mill  seemed  to  have 
become.  A  wild  shout,  followed  by  a  fresh  volley,  cleft  the 
air. 

*'  Ah  !  "  groaned  the  doctor,  flinging  away  his  revolver. 
A  bullet  had  pierced  his  right  hand.  Inexpressible  terror 
and  despair  were  depicted  on  his  face.  Ognianoff,  still 
firing  at  the  crowd,  and  also  covered  with  blood,  noticed 
this  and  asked  : 

"  Are  you  in  pain,  brother  ?  " 

*'  No,  but  I've  fired  off  my  last  cartridge — I  forgot." 

"  Here,  there  are  still  two  left  in  my  revolver,  take  it," 


DESTRUCTION  301 

said  Ognianoff,  handing  the  weapon  to  Sokoloff.  "  Now 
they  shall  see  how  a  Bulgarian  apostle  dies  !  "  And  draw- 
ing the  long  yataghan  from  the  doctor's  belt,  he  rushed 
from  the  door  into  the  crowd,  dealing  frightful  blows  left 
and  right. 

Half  an  hour  later  the  whole  horde,  triumphant  and 
ferocious,  was  marching  with  demoniacal  glee  from  the 
valley  with  Ognianoff's  head  on  a  pole.  The  doctor's 
head,  slashed  to  pieces  by  their  knives  (it  had  first  been 
shattered  by  the  doctor  himself  with  a  bullet),  could  not 
serve  as  a  trophy.  So  also  Rada's  head  was  left  behind  for 
reasons  of  policy  :  Tossoun  Bey  was  more  cunning  than  his 
colleague  of  Tumrush. 

A  cart  behind  conveyed  the  killed  and  wounded. 

With  savage  shouts  of  triumph  the  band  reached  the 
town.  It  was  more  silent  and  deserted  than  a  graveyard. 
They  set  up  the  trophy  in  the  market-place. 

Only  one  man  was  moving  there,  like  a  ghost. 

It  was  Mouncho. 

When  he  recognised  the  head  of  his  beloved  "  Russian," 
his  eyes  flashed  with  a  fierce  unreasoning  rage,  and  he  broke 
out  into  a  colossal  and  appalHng  blasphemy  against 
Mohammed. 

They  hanged  him  by  the  butcher's  shop. 

The  idiot  was  the  only  man  who  had  ventured  to  pro- 
test. 


BALL ANT YNE  &  COMPANY   LTD 
Tavistock  Street  Covent  Garden 
London 


14  DAY  USE 

„^,^^i°0„W„.CHB0»0W.O 

LOAN  DEPT. 


^(E1602810)476B 


rieneral  Library     . 


U.C.BERKELEY  LIBRARIES 


CDMS=limSb 


;^^.. 


717083 


«     « • ». 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  UBRARY 


■i& 


,  ?  \ 


■>7. ?'V.^  S>^ 


