Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  tliis  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  in  forming  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http: //books  .google  .com/I 


'.2.ii.la 


- 

tea 

■fcarvarB  dollcge  Xibrars 

FROM 

7*«i<i  'ThMTn^CJUlJU^y^ 

J 

m  I'Ul'i:  Xl<V. 


M  in^K'K'  Xl<V. 


Tin: 


VISION; 


OR 


HELL,  PURGATORY,  AND  PARADISE, 


OF 


DANTE  ALIGfllERI. 

TRANSLATED  BY 

THE  REV.  HENRY  FRANCIS  GARY,  A.  M. 


WITH  THE    LIFE    OF  DANTE,  CHRONOLOGICAL  VIEW  OF 
HIS  AGE,  ADDITIONAL  NOTES  AND  INDEX. 


ILLUSTRATED  WITH   TWELVE  ENGRAVINGS, 
FROM  DESIGNS' BY  JOHN  FLAXMAN,  R.  A. 


FROM  THE  LAST  CORRECTED  LONDON  EDITION. 


NEW  YORK: 
D.  APPLETON  &  CO.,  200  BROADWAY. 

PHILADELPHIA  : 

GEO.  S.  APPLETON,  148  CHEiSNUT  ST. 

M  DCCC  XLV. 


^ 


b-w  ST.i^'   ''-■'• 


^ 


COUf^. 


it  i'.^' , 


■     ;  \ 


PREFACE. 


In  the  years  leos  and  1806,  I  published  the 
First  Part  of  the  following  Tranaktion,  with  the 
Text  of  the  Original.  Since  that  period,  two 
impressions  of  the  whole  of  the  Divinit  CommC' 
dia,  in  Italian,  have  made  iheir  appearance  in 
this  oountry.  It  js  not  necessary  that  I  should 
■dd  a  third :  and  I  am  induced  to  hope  that  the 
Poem,  even  in  the  present  version  of  it,  may  not 
be  without  interest  for  the  mere  Engliah  reader. 
The  tixnslation  of  the  Second  and  Third  Parts, 
"  The  Purgatory"  and  "  The  Paradise,"  was  be- 
gan long  before  the  First,  and  as  early  as  the 
year  1797;  but,  owing  to  many  interruptions, 
not  concluded  till  the  summer  before  last.  On 
I  tetrogpect  of  the  time  and  exertions  that  have 
been  thus  employed,  1  do  not  regard  those  hours 
u  the  least  happy  of  my  life,  during  which  (to 
use  the  eloqnenl  language  of  Mr.  Coleridge) 
"  m;  individual  recollections  have  been  sna- 
pended,  and  lulled  to  sleep  amid  the  mnsic  of 
nobler  thoughts ;"  nor  that  study  misapplied, 
which  has  ^miliarized  me  with  one  of  the  sub- 
To  those  who  shall  be  at  the  trouble  of  exam- 
ining into  the  degree  of  accuracy  with  which 
the  took  has  been  executed,  I  may  be  allowed 
to  suggest,  that  their  judgment  should  not  be 
formed  on  a  comparbun  with  any  single  text 


4  PREFACE. 

of  my  Author ;  since,  in  more  instances  than  I 
have  noticed,  I  have  had  to  make  my  choice 
out  of  a  variety  of  readings  and  interpretations 
presented  by  different  editions  and  commenta- 
tors. 

In  one  or  two  of  those  editions  is  to  be  found 
the  title  of  "  The  Vision  ;"  which  I  have  adopt- 
ed, as  more  conformable  to  the  genius  of  our 
language  than  that  of  "  The  Divine  Comedy." 
Dante  himself,  I  believe,  termed  it  simply  "  The 
Comedy ;"  in  the  first  place,  because  the  style 
was  of  the  middle  kind  ;  and  in  the  next,  be- 
cause the  story  (if  story  it  may  be  called)  ends 
happily. 

January,  1814. 


The  above  Advertisement  was  prefixed  to  an 
edition  of  the  following  Translation,  printed  in 
so  small  a  character  as  to  deter  a  numerous 
class  of  readers  from  perusing  it.  Among  the 
few  into  whose  hands  it  fell,  about  two  years 
ago,  Mr.  Coleridge  became  one  ;  and  I  have 
both  a  pride  and  a  pleasure  in  acknowledging 
that  it  has  been  chiefly  owing  to  the  prompt  and 
strenuous  exertions  of  that  Gentleman  in  rec- 
ommending the  book  to  public  notice,  that  the 
opportunity  has  been  afforded  me  of  sending  it 
forth  in  its  present  form. 

Jw/y,  1819. 


When  a  Third  Edition  was  called  for  in  1831, 
my  duties  as  an  Assistant  Librarian  in  the  Brit- 
ish Museum  were  such  as  to  prevent  me  from 
engaging  in  any  task  that  would  have  required 
an  increase  of  sedentary  labor.     I  was  thus 


PREFACE.  5 

hindered  not  otiJy  from  attending  to  the  accu- 
racy of  the  press,  (wliich  indeed  the  care  of 
my  Publisher  rendered  almost  unneceeaary,)  hot 
from  collecting  and  putting  in  order  the  several 
corrections  and  additions,  which  I  had  occasion- 
ally noted  with  ihe  purpose  of  introducing  them 
into  that  edition. 

A  long  interval  of  leisure  may  since  have 
enabled  me  to  do  more  effectually  what  I  was 
before  coinpollud  to  leave  undone.  In  the  hope 
of  rendering  the  Life  of  Dante  and  the  Notes  on 
the  Poem  less  imperfect,  I  have  coneutted  most 
of  Iha  writers  hy  whom  my  Author  has  been 
recently  illustrated.  Wherever  an  omission  or 
an  error  in  the  translation  has  been  pointed  out 
to  me,  1  have  done  my  best  to  supply  the  one 
and  to  correct  llie  other  ;  and  my  obligations  in 
oil  these  instances  are  acknowledged  in  the 
Notes.  Among  those  who  have  not  thought  a 
few  hours  thrown  away  in  noticing  such  over- 
acts, it  ia  gratifying  to  me  to  mention  the 
names  of  Mi.  Carlyle,  one  of  the  most  origi- 
nal thinkers  of  our  time  ;  my  long-experienced 
friend,  Mr.  Daj'ley,  one  of  our  most  genuine 
poets ;  and  Mr.  Lyell,  my  respected  feUow- 
laborer  iti  the  mine  of  Dante.  At  an  advanced 
^e,  1  do  not  imagine  myself  capable  of  other- 
wise improving  an  attempt  which,  however  de- 
fective, has  at  least  the  advantage  of  having  had 
my  earlier  days  bestowed  on  it. 


I      ^tbntary,  ISii. 


CONTENTS- 


PREFACE 3 

LIFE  OF  DANTE 9 

CHRONOLOGICAL  VIEW  OF  THE  AGE  OF 

DANTE 44 

THE  VISION  OF  DANTE : 

Hell,  Canto  I— XXXIV 51 

Pdroatory,  Canto  I—XXXIH 225 

Paradise,  Canto  I— XXXUI 403 

INDEX 571 


\ 


4 


LIFE    OF   DANTE. 


DtNTE,'  a,  nune  abbreviated,  as  was  the  cuslom 
in  thoae  days,  fhini  Durante  oi  Dutaiido,  waa  of  a 
vary  ancient  Flotejitine  family.  The  Brat  of  b» 
■Dcwton,'  concertiitig  n-hom  any  tbing  cprluiii  ia 
known,  wot  Cacciaguida,'  a  Floreutino  knight,  wbo 
died  fighting  in  tiie  hdy  war,  under  tiio  Emperor 
Canrad  III.  Capciagiuda  had  two  brotheia,  Muranto 
and  EliseD,  the  fanner  of  vbam  a  not  locarded  to 
hare  left  any  posterity ;  Ibe  Intter  is  tbe  lipad  uf 
the  lanlOy  of  the  Blisei,  or  perbaps  (fuc  it  is  doubt- 
ful which  is  the  case)  only  tronaniitted  to  bis  de- 
Keudants  a  name  which  ho  had  )iiniec>lf  tiiberitcd. 
From  CacciB^da  himself  were  epnmg  the  Ali- 
gbieri,  so  called  from  one  of  hia  eohs,  wbo  bore  the 
appellation  from  his  mother's  family,'  as  is  affirmed 
by  lh«  Poet  himself,  mider  the  peraon  of  Caccia- 


Ukalnbe  was  ibe  iliaf  btsr  of  AldJgeriu,  ivhn  wu  n  inwrcrof 
Venna.  and  twoLheTDf  one  of  tbe  beuoo  naTiifl,  blAliopof  llal 
cUir.  sn^  soltaor  of  Bn  eplEllB  uddrened  tn  b1>  niollipr,  a  nil* 
h  Ibc  Ulle  ofTncuIai  AdnJgerl  Ejilsctd 


10  LITE  OF  DANTE. 

guida,  in  tba  fifteenth  ciuila  of  the  FanidiBe. 


1,  Alighler 


i  lieH  a 


BcendmilB  of  our  Poet  at  Verona, 
Laonardo  Aietinu. 

Dante  wafl  bom  at  Florence  in  May,  1265. 
mother's  name  was  Bella,  but  of  what  family 
longer  known.  His  fathei*  he  hud  tlie  luisfoi 
to  lose  in  his  childhood ;  but  by  the  advice  of  his 
surviving  relations,  and  with  the  asBistance  of  an 
able  preceptor,  Bninetto  Latini,  he  applied  liimself 
clceely  to  polite  literature  and  other  Ubetal  studio^ 
at  IHb  BBme  lime  that  he  omitted  no  parmiit  necca- 
rary  for  the  accomplishment  of  a  manly  character, 
and  mixed  with  the  youth  of  liis  age  in  all  honorable 
and  noble  exerclBeR. 

Id  the  twenty-fourth  year  of  his  age,  he  was 
present  at  the  memorable  battle  of  Campaldino,' 
where  he  served  in  the  foremOBt  troc^  of  cavalry, 
and  was  exposed  to  imminent  danger.  Leonardo 
Aretino  ipfeis  to  a  letter  of  Dante,  in  which  he 
described  the  order  of  that  battle,  and  mentioned 
his  having  been  engaged  in  tt  The  cavahy  of  the 
Arelini  at  the  fiist  org«t  giuiied  so  great  an  advan- 
Uge  over  the  Florentine  horse,  as  to  compel  them 
le  retreat  to  their  body  of  infantry.  This  ciicom- 
stance  in  the  event  proved  highly  fortunate  to  the 
Florentinee  ;  for  their  own  cavalry  being  thus  joined 
to  their  foot,  while  that  of  (heir  enemiea  was  led 
by  the  pursuit  to  a  coDHidcrnble  distance  from  theirs, 
they  were  by  these  means  enabled  to  defeat  vrith 
ease  their  separate  forces.  In  this  battle,  Uie  Uber- 
ti,  Lamberti,  and  Abati,  with  all  the  other  ex- 
citizens  of  Florence   who   adhered  to  the   GhibeU 


.    Op^re  dl  Uuilr. 


iy»  of^^ 


is  ftlher  Alighlcro  Iwd  Seen  Imfori 
ler  of  CtilailuLnio  Clnloffi;  inil  I 
I  FrvDceKO.  who  left  two  dnaghler 
mod  Donnte  stter  his  brotbar.  Fr 
leen  mlBtakoD  for  a.  son  of  our  Foot' 
Kljo  A  ilEler  of  DaotB.  who  wu  mi 
»  moUwr  of  Andrea  Poigl,  BnccarcL 


LIFE  OF  DANTE. 

1  with  the  AiPtini : 


11 

whiln  Ihoga 


IJns'  inteieat,  n 

inhsbitaalB  of  AiBixo,  who,  owing  lo  their  nttach- 
ment  to  the  Guelph'  party  htd  been  banished  boia 
their  own  city,  wore  ranged  on  the  ado  of  the 
Floientmes,  In  the  folJowing  year,  Dante  took 
part  in  another  engagement  between  IiIb  country- 
mcn  and  liie  citizens  of  Fjea,  from  whom  they  took 
the  castle  of  Caprona,'  situated  not  far  from  that 
cily. 

Pnnn  what  the  Poet  haa  told  ua  in  hui  Treatise, 
entitled  (he  Vita  Nbotb,  w8  leani  that  lie  was  a 
lover  long  before  be  was  a  Botdier,  and  that  his  pas- 
sion for  the  Beatrice  wliom  he  hus  imntDrtaliiod, 
Commeuced'  when  she  was  at  the  beginning  and  be 
noBi  the  end  of  Ms  ninlb  year.  Their  first  meeting 
was  at  a  banquet  in  the  house  of  Folco  Portinari? 
het  father :  and  the  impression  then  made  on  the 
SDiteptible  Bod  conatsnt  heart  of  Dante  was  not 
abliteraled  by  her  deatli,  which  happened  after  an 
interval  of  siitcen  years. 

Bal  neilher  war,  nor  Iotb,  preveated  Dante  irnm 
gnti^nng  the  lamest  denre  which  he  bad  of  know- 
ledge and  mental  Improvement.  By  Benvenuto 
daliBola,  DQB  of  the  earliest  of  his  conunentatoiB, 
it  Is  related,  tUl  he  stndied  in  his  youth  at  the 
nniveniljce  of  Bologna  and  Padua,  lu  well  aa  in 
that  of  bis  native  city,  and  devoted  himself  lo  llie 
punuit  of  natural  and  moral  philosophy.  There  is 
KBSon  t0  believe  that  his  eagemssi  for  the  acqtu- 
■ition  of  teaming,  at  same  time  of  his  life,  led  him 
as  far  ui  Paris,  and  even  Oxford  f  in  Ilie  former 


■  Foi  iM  luppoied  ori^o  of  these  denoinlnaUDDi,  90g  nolo 

•  He11,'<il.W 

■  BHsalso  nwbenlanlDgof  iheVin  Noiiva. 

•  Folco  ii  BlcoVBTo  Ponlnsil  was  His  fiiunder  of  Itae  boi- 
^■al  of  e.  atkrli  Nnovi.  Id  1380,  anil  of  other  ctasrtuble  Initi- 
ludOlU,  uul  <Ued  In  1280,  as  appealed  ttom  lila  epLupli.  PiUi. 
p-SS. 

TUIul  UmMlf  nyi.'  hli  DsljihlHiI  In  Flniecce,  laformi  n), 
that  "he  went  to  iiudr  »' Bolugiia.  and  iben  loPsrii,  nndto 
mUf  uuU  of  iJio  worlrj,"  (an  BipreHlua  Ihal  may  well  bi- 
(lDd«  Engluid.)  "  iDtucqaenlly  lo  hlB  baDlahmeDl."    Eiai., 

■Ittlbei  he  ml|h(  not  hKve  been  omce  than  once  a  itndsSt 

Bat  the  ftel  of  bis  havlni  vliiled  Eaglsnd  iBib  i>n  a  pal- 


13  LIFE  or  DANTE, 

of  wbicti  iLniveraities  he  is  said  to  have  tnken  Uie 
degree  of  a  Bachelor,  and  distinguinhed  himself 
in  the  tbealogicoj  dispetoliDoB  ;  but  to  have  beeQ 
hindered  from  conunencing  MEister,  by  a  failure  in 
Ilia  pecuniary  resonrcEs.  FraaecBco  da  Buti,  an- 
othor  of  hia  cotomentatora  in  Iho  fourtcpnlh  cen- 
tury, asaertB  that  he  entered  the  order  nf  the  Frali 
Minori,  but  laid  aeide  the  hahil  before  he  was  pro- 

In  hia  own  city,  domestic  troubles,  and  yet  more 
TCvero  public  calamities,  awaited  liim.  In  1391, 
he  wns  induced,  by  the  sollcitalion  of  his  fiienda, 
to  console  liimHcIf  for  the  loss  of  Beatrice  by  s 
niatrunonial    coonoclion   with   Gommn.  a   lady  of 


ctl  ul^  Coaaaj^ce,  Buyn  nf  our  Poet :  "  AaRgorlee 
>le0Bni  aBcram,  Ed  qnA  itta  imdalt  tam  in  Dio 
Ao^lln,  qi 


■  Tadqs.  Bononli 


li  lecli  niulios  acttH  inlnHlablnlantan 

uifnua  WWII."      '. 

1.  iv.  p.  H,  Bi  eitiactaJ  fi 


pklLosoTrimAAb  BlEqiilbdii  mu- 
-"      '"-'-leJi 


b  aUqiilbiu  du^uii  wwut."      TtrahaetM 
_.   _._.  .,  —  ,_  _  ,1  __  eitiactaJ  rnun 

"^liB  iilibDp"tnmisled  lbs  pnem  iUeir  inlo  Lnlin  pmw.  at 

oTBaiislniry,  wbo  attended  the  HBjne  coiuieU.  One  copy  onJr 
of  Ibc  vchIdd  and  commentary  U  known  to  bo  prefrerved, 
And  (bal  la  ki  the  Vatican.    I  would  sanest  Itie  probabililT 

■Inei  Baene,  twice  qootei  paungei  fttmt  IIh  FaradlKt,  "  ren- 
derad  inlo  I«1)ii."  (and  li  1>  latin  pnne.J  ai  thai  learned  Uihoji 
«ay».  "  by  F.  B."  Orig.  Star.,  h.  II.  chap.  II.  •BO.  Ivlll.  {  i, 
end  cbHp.  I.  eect.v.  Edit.  Cainbrtdge,  ITOI.  See  nolei  (a 
Par.  nlT.  BS  and  104.  Thli  work  wbi  becnn  in  Febmary, 
l<lfl,and  nnlahed  In  ihemnie  numlli  of  the  fetiowlnB  year. 

tncU,  t>  eiplalned  by  Uanis  In  the  Cnnvilo.  Opcri  di  DiaiU, 
torn.  L  p.  13.  IMIi.Ven«.I?93;  end  moiel^efly  try  Field. 
or  the  Church,  b.  Hi.  eg  p.  56.  "  The  Anagogltall"  tenu  Ii, 
"when  llie  thbijtB  Uterally  erpresied  unlo  as  do  figaiOe 

by  the  Greek  Fethen   lo  ilgnliy  merely  a  inore  recondite 

ORmd.    Bee  Cttigea  In  Itonih'i  Bellqnla  Bacne.  <o].  It.  p. 


LIFE  OF  DANTE. 


temper  prored  8  nouree  of  the  billerest  Buffering-  ti 
him  ;  und  in  that  passage  of  the  Inferno,  where  oai 
of  the  characters  says, 


own  coDJngitl  imhappineBS  miisL  have  recucred 
Biraibly  nnd  puinfully  to  hia  mind'  It  ie  not  im- 
probaMe  tliat  poUticol  animoflity  might  have  hod 
•ome  aluLre  in  these  diasEnslans ;  for  hia  wife  was 
a  kiDBWonian  of  Corso  Donali,  one  of  the  moat  formi- 
dable, BB  be  was  one  of  lire  moat  mrel  crate  of  hia 
nppanenta. 

In  1300  lie  waa  chosen  chief  of  llie  Priors,  who 
at  that  time  poffiessed  the  supreme  authority  in  the 
Mate;  hifl  collea^ofl  hein^  Palmieri  degh  Altoritl 
and  Ncri  di  Jacopo  degh  Alborti.  Frora  this  exalta- 
tion our  poet  dated  the  cause  of  all  his  suhscqueut 
misfortunes  in  life.' 

In  ordei  to  show  the  oecB«aa  of  Danls's  exile,  it 
nay  be  necessary  to  enter  moio  particularly  into 
the  statu  of  parties  at  Florcucc.  The  cily,  which 
had  been  dislurbod  by  many  divisions  between  the 
Guelphs  Bud  GhiheUmes,  at  length  remained  in 
the  power  of  the  formur;  but  aflei  some  tune  these 
were  agahi  split  inlo  two  factions.  This  perverse 
occurrence  originated  with  the  inhabitants  of  Pia- 
l^a,  who.  trom  an  unhappy  quoirel  between  two 
pOWMfut  fitniiUes  in  that  city,  were  ail  separated 
into  pttrtiett  known  by  those  deuominatLona.  With 
the  intention  of  composing  Iheir  differences,  the 
princijMtb  en  each  side  were  sninmoned  to  the  city 


unato  wLtir,    I  certainly  do  nal  find  any  meDtlao  nf  ber 

odiappy  lem(«  In  lbs  eulT  MagmiiWs.    S(gsrd  Ibr  hor  or 

orr,  IjiifiUnn,  though  Mffinwnitiog  tier  goDd  qonlktieB, 


of  Munblnnni 

'    "UaofflBDut 

tTntTn.  It 


14  LIFE  OF  DANTE. 

of  Florence  ;  but  thla  meaaurp,  instead  of  remedying 
the  evil,  only  contributed  to  incresBe  its  virulence, 
by  conununicftting-  it  to  the  citiiens  of  Floreooe 
ttemaelveB.  For  the  contending  parties  wore  ao 
tai  from  being  brought  to  a  reconciliation,  that  each 
coQtrired  to  gain  fresh  partiBana  among  the  Floren- 
tincB,  with  whom  many  of  them  wore  closely  con- 
nected by  the  ties  of  blood  and  friendahip  ;  and  who 
entered  into  the  diepute  with  such  acrimony  and 
eagemeaa,  that  the  whole  oily  waa  Boon  engaged 
either  on  one  purt  or  the  other,  and  even  brolheiB 
of  the  same  family  were  divided.  It  waa  not  long 
before  they  pasaed,  by  the  naoal  gradations,  fWna 
contumely  lo  violence.  The  factions  were  now 
known  by  the  nnmes  of  the  Neri  and  the  Braochi, 
the  former  gcnecally  ndmg  with  the  Gnelpbs,  or 
adherents  of  the  papal  power,  the  latter  with  the 
GhibeUinea,  or  those  who  supported  the  anthority  of 
the  emperor.  The  Neri  asseiuhlod  secretly  m  the 
church  of  the  Holy  Trinity,  and  determmed  on  in- 
terceding with  Pope  Boniface  VIII.  to  send  Chariee 
of  Talois  to  paeiiy  and  reform  the  city.  No  sooner 
did  this  rcBOlution  come  lo  the  knowledge  of  the 
Bianchi,  than,  struck  with  apprehension  at  the  con- 
sequences of  such  a  measure,  they  took  arms,  and 
repiured  to  the  Priora;  demanding  of  them  the 
punishment  of  their  adversaries,  for  having  thus 
entered  into  priva,te  deliberations  oonoeming  the 
state,  which  they  represented  to  have  been  done 
with  the  view  of  expelling  them  from  the  city 
Those  who  had  met,  being  alarmed  in  their  turn, 
had  also  recourse  to  arms,  and  made  their  complaints 
to  the  Pricn.  AccuHUg  their  opponents  of  having 
armed  themselves  without  any  previous  public  dii- 
coaaion ;  and  aiErming  that,  under  various  pretexts, 
they  had  soaght  ta  drive  them  out  of  their  coanlry, 
they  demanded  that  they  might  bo  punished  as  du- 
turbers  of  the  public  tranquillity.  The  dread  and 
danger  became  goneral,  when,  hy  the  advice  of 
Dante,  the  Priors  called  in  the  multitude  to  their 
protection  and  assiataDee ;  and  then  proceeded  to 
haiush  the  principals  of  the  two  factions,  who  were 
these ;  Coiso  Doikati,'  Geri  Spni,  Glaehoiiotto  de' 
Paiii,    Rosw    della  Toea,  and  others  of  the  Nera 

I  (K  IhlB  remsikablo  mnn,   see  iiinro  In  the  Puig.  iilv. 


LIFE  OF  DANTE.  IJ 

paity,  who  were  axilcd  to  (he  Caeteilo  dellu  Piors 
in  Fenigia ;  and  of  tl^e  Biaaca  party,  who  weie 
baouiisd  ta  Sumuuia,  Gsalila  and  Torri^ano  de' 
Cerchi,  Gutdo  CavaLcanti,'  Baacibiera  dcUu  Toe*, 
Baldinaccio  Adknari,  Naltlo,  anu  of  ligttina  Ghe- 
tardini,  and  others.  On  this  occuaion  Daote  waa 
accused  of  favoring  the  Bianobi,  though  he  ap- 
peals lo  have  conduclad  himself  witb  impartiality  ; 
and  the  deliberation  hold  by  lh«  Meri  for  iatm- 
duoing  Cbaikss  of  Valoia'  might.  ferhaiH,  have  jus- 
tified him  in  treating  that  party  with  yet  gteater 
ligar.  The  suxpiciou  againet  iiim  was  increase, 
vhen  those,  whom  he  was  aecused  of  fuvorinei  were 
BOJi  after  allowed  to  return  from  their  barxtshmenti 
whUe  the  santf  DCS  passed  upon  tha  olber  factioq 
still  remained  in  full  ibros.  To  this  Dante  replied, 
that  when  those  wlio  hid  been  sent  to  Senaiana 
irere  recalled,  ho  was  no  longer  in  office ;  and  that 
IbeiT  return  had  been  permitted  on  aocount  of  the 
death  of  Guido  Cavalcanli,  which  was  attributed  to 
the  unwholesome  air  nf  tliot  place.  The  paitiahly 
which  bad  been  ahown,  however,  atlbrded  a  pretext 
la  tha  Fope'  for  dispatchuig  Charles  of  Valoia  to 
FlacEuce,  by  wlioso  influenco  a  great  roveree  was 
soon  produced  in  tbe  public  afiaira ;  the  ex-citizens 
bemg  leslorad  to  tlieh  place,  and  the  whole  of  the 
Bisnca  party  drirua  iuto  exile.  At  this  juncture, 
Dsnie  was  not  id  Florence,  but  at  Some,  whither 
he  had  a  short  time  before  been  sent  ambassador  to 
the  Pope,  with  the  oSer  of  a  volontary  return  to 
peace  and  amity  among  the  citizens.  His  enemies 
bad  now  an  opportunity  of  revenge,  and  during  his 
abaenee  on  tha  pacific  mismon,  proceeded  to  puss  an 
iniquitous  deoreo  of  banishment  against  him  and 
Falmieri  AllAiti ;  and  at  tbe  same  time  oontlscated 
tiis  poseessions,  which  indeed  had  been  previously 
glvoli  up  to  pUage." 


fine  vniM  iiol  ittEd,  U 


d 


16 


LITE  OF  DANTE. 


fultr  J^ 
which  S^™ 


On  lipanng  the  lidingB  nf  bis  niia.  Dante  ^ 
Blantiy  i|uiltRd  Roine,  snd  passed  willi  all  p 
eipeditiun  to  Sienna.  Here  beiD^  more  fultf  ■ 
prized  of  the  eitoiit  of  the  calamitf ,  for  which  1 
could  see  no  remedy^  he  came  1o  the  dtepemle 
resolution  of  jcHiuag  bim^lf  to  the  other  en]«. 
His  firat  meelm^  with  them  woa  at  a  cansultatioD 
which  they  bad  at  Gorgonza,  a  Bmull  castle  subjoet 
to  tha  jurisdiction  of  Areizo,  iu  which  city  it  was 
finally,  after  a  lon^deliberalion,  resolved  that  they 
should  take  op  their  etatiou.'     Hither  they  accord- 


1  In  men  Bl  lengOi. 

rents  before  hoi!  bacm  mpBlled 


I  y™re;  then  oroipuln  oCVUa;  af  lii 
III  1927;  Bnd  flaidlyof  Rumsn  epiir^i»r 


clilefly  of  cmnmenu  on  i 


.    ThB  cecond,  whii 


kd  procoedh  with  a  tjrief  eTplaniiltoii  of  I ^ ^_. 

'  the  poem,  1h  herK  attrllHitiHl  lo  MeKm  Busone  d^AnbMD. 
II  b  Blin  loHrled  In  Nm.  3tS3  and  MHO  of  Uio  HUnsHBa. 


I 

f  tba 
The 

I 


UPE  OF  DANTE.  17 

^ly  repwred  in  a  nnmeroiu  body,  luadf  tlie  Count 
Alesaaudro  da  Romena  tliuir  Jeadur,  and  Bp|>oiiilod 
"  "ounuii  of  twflvo.  of  wliieh  number  Daiilo  was 
.  Id  the  year  1304,  iiBTing  beau  joined  by  a 
f  ulroiig  force,  wUieU  was  not  only  fumished 
m  by  Areiio,  but  sent  from  BoLogua  Bad  Pistoia, 
y  made  a  suddeu  attack  on  the  city  of  Florence, 
gained  poBseaaion  of  aae  of  the  gates,  uad  conquered 
part  of  the  territory,  but  were  Hnully  cumpelled  to 
retreat  witbout  relaining  any  uf  the  advautagea  Ibey 
had  acquired. 

Disappointed  in  this  attempt  to  reinstate  himaelf 
In  hii  country,  Dante  quitted  Arezxo ;  and  bis  course 
IB,'  for  tbe  most  part,  afienvardB  to  be  traced  only 
*-t  nDtiees,  casually  dropped  m  his  own  wiitingc, 
ditcovered  in  docunieDts,  which  either  ohanoe  or 
e  zeal  of  aulitfuarios  may  have  brought  to  light. 
From  an  instrument' is  the  posaesioa  of  the  Murchesi 
Papofavi,  of  Padua,  it  baa  been  ascertained  that, 
in  1306,  ho  WHS  nt  that  city  and  with  that  ftiinily. 
Binutar  proof  exiita  of  his  having  been  piiMKnt  in 
the  fbliowing  year  at  a  congroBs  of  tlie  Giiibellinea 
and  the  Bianchi,  held  in  the  sacristy  of  the  church 
betoDging  to  the  abbey  of  S.  Gaudenzio  in  Mu- 
gello ;  imd  liom  a  passage  in  the  Pu^atory '  wa 
collect,  that  before  tbe  expu^tion  of  13UT  he  had 
id  a  refuge   in  Lunigiana,  with  tbe  Marcbese 


dE.  MD.    Tin  ttatrd  !e  a  tomiel  b; 
]  at  rloencc  In  the  jrair  183S.  by  lb 


eitiiii  ar£e  MVBisL  piro  of  iho  Dlvlt 


ST. 

Hmmflhe  MVBisL  nnrB  of  ll     "■  " 

If  HoaifAch  what  he  luppoi— . 

HT  placcA  visited  by  Danle,  la^ethtu  with  flUusleu  to 

jeomenl^  to  wesyb  ml  of  Ibe  whoLn  a  conOnoed 

■MntiTi,  which,  tboDiii  it  Biay  Pus  for  camsnl  with  Ibe 

' lader,  will  not  «Uii<y  s  tiHue  diligent  Inquber  ansr 

.    Sen  Ttaya.'!  Vrlaa  AUegoricu  dl  Daole.    PI0- 

•VUlEilinn  InconmlDio  miio,  i\e  vlgciimo  lepclmo  men- 
*  MfDiU.  Pulae  la  coDDalB  Banctl  Mnnbil  Id  doma  Dumlne 
AlUM  DmiIbI  PbibAtb,  pmcnllbas  Daulliui  qUDnifani  Al- 
')■>»  ie  l>luBBli*  «  nnnc  iiai  Fadne  lo  cimtna  Suinl 
'•Aamm.  he.    pilli,  V.S3. 

•MU,  f-  W,  wli«i>  Ihe  docunient  U  gLvea. 

•boito  yili.  133. 


18 


LIFE  OF  DANTK 


Morello  or  Marcello  Malaspina,  who,  though  for- 
merly a  supporter^  of  the  opposite  party,  was  now 
magnanimous  euough  to  welcome  a  noble  enemy  in 
his  misfortune. 

The  time  at  which  he  sought  an  asylum  at  Ve- 
rona, under  the  hospitable  roof  of  the  Signori  della 
Scala,  is  less  distinctly  marked.  It  would  seem  as 
if  those  verses  in  the  Paradise,  where  the  shade  of 
his  ancestor  declares  to  him, 

Lo  primo  tuo  rifiigio  e'l  prime  ostello 
Sara  la  cortesia  del  gran  Lombardo, 

First?  refuge  thou  must  find,  first  place  of  rest 
In  the  great  Lombard's  courtesy, 

should  not  be  interpreted  too  strictly :  but  whether 
he  experienced  that  courtesy  at  a  very  early  period 
of  his  banishment,  or,  as  others  have  imagined,  not 
till  1308,  when  he  had  quitted  the  Marchese  Mo- 
rello, it  is  believed  that  he  left  Verona  in  disgust  at 
the  flippant  levity  of  that  court,  or  at  some  slight 
which  he  conceived  to  have  been  shown  him  by  his 
munificent  patron  Can  Grande,  on  whose  liberality 
he  has  passed  so  high  an  encomium.*  Supposing 
the  latter  to  have  been  the  cause  of  his  departure, 
it  must  necessarily  be  placed  at  a  date  posterior  to 
1308  ;  for  Can  Grande,  though  associated  with  his 
amiable  brother  Alboino*  in  the  government  of  Ve- 
rona, was  then  only  seventeen  years  of  age,  and 
therefore  incapable  of  giving  the  alleged  oj^nce  to 
his  guest. 

The  mortifications  which  he  underwent  during 
these  wanderings,  will  be  best  described  in  his  own 
language.  In  his  Convito  he  speaks  of  his  banish- 
ment, and  the  poverty  and  distress  which  attended 
it,  in  very  affecting  terms.     "  Alas  !"*  said  he,  "  had 


*  Hell,  xxiv.  144.  MorcUo's  wife  Alagia  is  honorably  men- 
tioned in  the  Purg.  xiz.  140. 

a  Canto  xvii.  68. 

'  Hell,  1.  98,  and  Par.  xvii.  75.  A  Latin  Epistle  dedicatory 
of  the  Paradise  to  Can  Grande  is  attributed  to  Dante.  With- 
out better  proof  than  has  been  yet  adduced,  I  cannot  con- 
clude it  to  be  genuine.  See  the  question  discussed  by  Fra- 
ticelli,  in  the  Opcre  Minori  di  Dante,  tom.  ili.  pt«  ii.  12«»,  Fir. 
1841. 

♦  Alboino  is  spoken  of  in  the  Convito,  p.  179,  in  such  a 
manner,  that  it  is  not  easy  to  say  whether  a  compliment 
or  a  reflection  is  intended ;  but  I  am  inclined  to  think  the 
latter. 

A  "  Ahi  piacciuto  fosse  al  DispensatcKre  delP  Unlverso,**  tec, 
p.  11. 


i 


LIFE  OF  DAPJTE.  | 

-  Diopenser  of  Ihe  Uni-rewB,  tbat  t! 


Ihet  othoM  iiad  comrailled  wroB 
niSered  luijuBlly;  siifibrGd,  I 

g  against  me.  nor  I 

of  Mile  und  of  poverty ;  doce 

of  the  Bititeia  of  that  faireet 

dku^tei  of  Komc,  Florence.  1 

oast  ma  forth  ont 

Of  hor  mett  bosom,  Id  which 

:  had  my  Wnh  and 

BOUTBhrnenl  even  to  the  ripei 

in  wbici,,  with  her  good  will, 

dcring  over  ftlinOBl  ovpry  part 

lo  which  this  our 

laagnags  raitcndB,  I  have  gone 

ibout  like  a  racndi- 

!l,  tbo  wound  with 

triiioh  fartime  has  raniUen  me 

whom  it  Ib  inflicted. 

1  have,  iDdftd,  been  a  wssel  w 

bonl:  sail  and  w!th- 

out  rtBcrage,  earned  about  lo  divers  ports,  and  roads, 

Ud  ■hora,  by  Iho  dry  wind  tb 

t  springe  out  of  aad 

and   hay 


1   bpfort 


9  of 


DUD7>  who,  perhaps,  froi 
(Hobed  Ihem,  had  imagined  me  of  a  different  form  ; 
in  whoM  sight  not  only  my  pereou  wai  dieparaged, 
bnt  every  nctiou  of  HUDB  became  of  less  value,  aa 
mil  already  perfbinied,  aa  Iboae  which  yet  remained 
fbt  me  lo  attempt."  It  Is  no  wonder  that,  with 
teelioga  like  those,  he  was  now  willing  to  obtain  by 
hamiliation  aud  cnlreoty,  what  he  had  before  beeu 
miBUe  to  eSect  by  force. 

He  addrened  aeveTal  BuppUcatory  ejNBtka,  not 
only  to  individnala  who  composed  the  government, 
bnt  to  the  people  at  large;  particularly  one  letter, 
of  coorideraible  longtb,  which  Leonardo  Aretino  re- 
lates to  have  begun  with  thia  expoBtnlatioa :  "  Fo- 


naly  wailed  the  result  of   tlieBo 


niulB  ha   BI 
•udetTon  lo  <  ,  . 

|fe)Ci<ni  was  given  tn  (ho  face  of  pubhc  al£iirs  by 
Dm  (lultaluRi  of  Henry  of  Luiiemburgb'  (a  Ihe 
iBITwitnl  Ihnnie ;  and  it  wne  geuerally  eipected 
tfnt  tliD  meet  important  political  changes  would 
CMow,  OD  the  arrival  of  the  iiev  mvercign  in  Italy. 
Another  proepect,  morfl  miitsUH  to  the  temper  of 
DaBte,  now  diKloaed  itself  to  hia  hopes:  ha  once 

'  Par.  ivll,  60,  Bod  m.  1«. 


so  LITE  OF  DANTE. 

more  asauined  a  lofty  tone  of  defiance ;  and,  Bs  it 
should  Bcem,  wilhout  much  regard  eilher  (o  eon- 
sifltency  or  prudence,  broke  out  into  bitter  invee- 
tiVBB  against  the  rulers  of  Florence,  threatening 
them  with  merited  vengeuice  from  the  power  iS 
the  Emperor,  which  he  declared  tliat  they  bad  uo 
adequate  means  of  oppoaing.  He  now  decidedly 
lelinqulEhed  the  party  of  the  Guelphe,  which  had 
been  eepouBed  by  bin  ancestora,  and  uuder  wboK 
banners  he  had  eerved  in  the  earlier  part  of  his 
life  on  the  pluins  of  Campaldlno ;  and  attached 
himself  to  the  cause  of  their  oppoaenls,  tlie  GhibeU 
lines.  Reverence  for  his  country,  nays  one  of  his 
bic^rapheis,'  prevailed  on  him  to  absent  himBelf 
fiom  the  hostile  army,  when  Henry  of  Luzem- 
borgh  encamped  before  the  gates  of  Florence ; 
but  it  is  difficolt  to  give  him  credit  for  being  now 
much  influenoed  by  a  principle  which  had  not  fbi- 
merly  been  sufficient  to  reBlram  him  from  similar 
Tiolence.  It  is  probable  that  he  was  actuated  by 
some  desire,  howo-yer  weak,  of  preserying  oppeor- 
Siuces ;  for  of  his  personal  courage  no  question  con 
be  made.  Dante  was  fated  to  disappointment 
The  Emperor's  campaign  ended  in  nothing ;  the 
Emperor  himself  died  the  fallowing  summer,  (in 
1313,)  at  Buouconvenlo ;  and,  with  him,  all  hopes 
of  regaining  his  native  cily  expired  in  the  breast 
of  the  unhappy  exile.  Several  of  his  biographers' 
affirm  that  he  now  made  a  second  journey  lo  Paris, 
where  Boccaccio  adds  that  he  held  a  public  dis- 
putation' on  various  qnealions  of  theology.  To 
what  other  placfs*  he  might  have  roamed  during 
his  banishraent,  is  very  uncertain.  We  are  told 
that  bo  was  in  Casentino,  with  the  Conte  Guido 


SolTBtico,' 


ir  Urbi 


HDOlliej 


nolo.  Al  Ibe  nionnstery  ot'  Santa  Croce  di  Foiite 
AvoUiiuai  a  wild  and  solitary  retreat  in  the  tcrriloty 
rf  Gabbio,  vas  shown  a  chamber  in  wlilcli,  oa  a 
L&lin  iuBcriplJan'  declared,  it  was  belisved  that  h> 
had  Eaiuposed  no  small  pcition  oC  his  divine  wuik. 
A  loweii  belonging  tn  the  Conli  Folcucci,  in  Gub' 
bio,  clnimB  tor  itself  a  shnilar  honar.  In  the  cnMle 
of  Cotmultoro,  near  the  Hver  Snonda,  and  about 
■ic  loiles  jiam  the  sams  city,  he  wan  cnurteously 
entertained  by  Busoae  da  Gnbbio,'  whom  he  had 
formeriy  met  at  Areiio.     There   ate  some  tiocM 

1  He  WHS  fttniioa  K>  llie  Tslianl  GuldognenB.    Pell!,  p. 


_  (wlagii  FtKCM  pro  eilnila  DTfa 
K  viniaa  nuuin  i^laLe  refld  hanrqne 
T  nliiu  efBgieia  sd  una  rlii  meiua- 
r  nkm  nvm^odatD  Anuiblo  Pemlo 
TsiioB.  Floren.  prueaniBlo 


•  In  Oili  It  iDscrlbed, 

Ali.gli 

•  Th»  WlOWlnl  »0 
IHpM.liiwhlcbMgnBl 


imilns  (iFripall.  FcUi,  p.  ST. 

[le^  uid  to  bd  adclrtrtmed  to  blm  by 
n  tho  Dal^Un  Erudltonun,  and  1>  In- 
h>u  oroDrPoel'iWoik>,K>m.lT.[arl 


lon^Wexwl 


DA  flnngiKi  noB  >'BIM 

I  il  ipBIl  gth  caBmU  Drill 
HUefpirliMBsffllello, 


S3  I'IFE  OF  DANTE. 

of  h'u  hftving  made  a.  temporary  abode  at  Udme, 
and  portjoularly  of  his  having  boeu  ia  tho  Fiiuli 
with  Paguno  della  Tom,  the  patriaich  of  Aquileia, 
at  the  cuBtle  of  Tolmiiui,  wLere  he  is  also  said  U> 
bave  employed  himself  oa  the  Divina  CoDimediN, 
and  wbero  a  lock  was  pointed  out  that  was  callod 
the  Beat  of  Danle.'  What  is  liaoWD  with  grestec 
certainly  is,  that  )ie  at  last  found  a  refuge  at  Ka- 
vcnnn,  with  Guide  NoveUo  da  Polenta;"  a  splendid 
protoctor  of  learuiag  ;  hiniself  a  poet ;  and  Ihe  kins- 
mHn  of  that  unfoitunato  Francesca,'  whose  slocy  had 
heen  told  by  Dante  with  such  uniiTBlled  pathos. 


flUnd'well 


CoDieni :  bsboldhig  (MtoflnawM^  mi ' 
§n  endy  Ihv  Kin'i  bnochu,  tbnt  grow  illll 
Enrleh'd  wSlb  dswi  oTGnelHB  Ion  sad  FRDcb 

TliimKb  ecDlog,  with  like  hopeful  fruJUige  hong, 
SproHil  not  nlon  In  recrejuil  Italy, 
Where  Hiluf  her  hcioe,  nnd  worth  bos  made  hlj 

¥el  Diny  the  elder  Riffliello  leo. 
With  jOT,  hll  omiprlogr  leen  Ihe  lenni'il  SOKHII, 


were  wrilteD  in  the  tbUbv  LsEarlna.  In  the  tcirltory  of 

letter  Is  In  the  Zntla  edilioo  of  Dante.  Mm.  iv.  pan  U.  p.  143. 
There  inair  be  betun  iionDd  (or  toncledlng  Ihnl  be  ni*. 
lomeUoie  daring  hb  eiUe.  «IIb  Lnnteil  PuaUco,  n  mEa  c^ 
■inclenl  sod  nobTs  badly,  nl  Ihe  cude  oTPiiratlio,  near  IM- 

Bedello.  to  Dlooitl,  oT  an  eitnct  from  a  chmnScle  remalnlnf 
done  iDpm  I'erlilQBlltdi  dcUa  IHvtna  Commedlt,  *c    Booik, 


note.   Former  blnnapherB  ofDantehnve 
la  list  patron,  ai  tap  fBIhn-nrFnnceHa. 


e,  Pnrls.  1B41,  p.  4TD. 


I 

I 


LIFE  OF  DANTE. 


33 


rould  iippear  frvm  one  or  hi*  Rfnallcs.  that 
about  the  year  1316  he  had  IhB  option  pven  him  of 
Miiniing  to  Florenco,  on  the  ignominiom  tfntii  of 
poyiDg  a  flue,  and  of  making  a  public  btowbI  of  hh 
:e.  Il  may.  perhaps,  bo  in  rer«vneF  (o  tlib 
which,  for  the  umc  rrBson  (hat  SocratM  tc- 
tbeed  to  asTe  his  life  on  similiiT  condilioDB,  he  indig- 
nantly Kjecled,  that  he  ptomiiiea  htmaelf  he  ahBll 
otw  day  TCturn  "  in  other  guisr." 

Al  till  Mitdinul  Aint,  ■hall  tlaim  ifae  vrreaOi 
Due  to  IbB  poet'fl  Ifimplsa.  Par^ -  jJltr, 

Suoh,  uutiedi  was  the  glory  which  bia  corapoeitiouii 
in  his  nalivfl  tongue  hatl  dow  gained  him,  thai  he 
doclareB,  in  the  treatiso  Db  VuTj^  Eloquentia,'  it 
had  in  eomu  measure  reconciled  him  even  to  his  ban- 
ishment. 

In  the  service  of  his  last  patron,  in  whom  he 
aeera*  to  havu  met  with  a  moTo  congenial  mind 
than  in  any  of  the  former,  his  talents  were  grale- 
fully  exerted,  and  his  af^cliona  IntTested  but  loo 
deeply;  for  having  been  sent  by  Guido  on  an  cm- 
ba«y  to  the  VeneliajiH,  and  not  hting  able  even  Lo 
[^aiu  an  audience,  oa  account  of  the  runcaimu 
animoRty  with  which  (hey  regarded  (hat  prince, 
Danlfl  returned  lo  Kavenua  «  overwhelmed  witli 
disappanitineDt  and  grief,  that  he  Was  seixed  by  an 
UhieM  which  terminated  fatally,  either  in  July  or 
September,  1331.'  Guido  testified  his  sorrow  and 
nqiect  by  the  sumptuoumes  oE  liis  obsejiuies,  and 
by  his  intention  to  erect  a  monument,  which  he  did 
not  live  to  complete.  Hia  countrymen  showed,  too 
late,  that  they  knew  the  value  of  what  they  had 
lost.  At  the  beghming  of  the  next  century,  their 
poirterity  marked  Iheir  regicl  by  enlrealiug  that  tho 
mortal  remeuis  of  their  lilnBtrioua  citizen  might  bo 
rrataied  to  them,  and  deposited  among  the  tomhe  of 
their  ftilbera.     But  the  people  of  Ravenna  were  unr 

m  glnrlKioi  efflflat.  aoi  Ipsl 


fumt.    tAh.  1.  cap.  IT. 
*  nnppo  Vltliitu ;   DDOmnico  ^dl 

aulhiirtrrti -'--"-- 
Utn  of  1»9, 


ffliliom  Jnly  ai  Iho  m 


24  LIFE  OF  DANTR 

willing  to  part  with  the  sad  and  honorable  memorial 
of  their  own  hospitality.  No  better  success  attended 
the  subsequent  negotiations  of  the  Florentines  for 
the  same  purpose,  though  renewed  under  the  auspi- 
ces of  Leo  X.,  and  conducted  through  the  powerful 
mediation  of  Michael  Angelo.* 

The  sepulchre,  designed  and  commenced  by  Guido 
da  Polenta,  was,  in  1483,  erected  by  Bernardo  Bem- 
bo,  the  father  of  the  Cardinal ;  and,  by  him,  decora- 
ted, besides  otiier  ornaments,  with  an  effigy  of  the 
poet  in  bas-relief,  the  sculpture  of  Pietro  Lombardo, 
and  with  the  following  epitaph : 

£xigu&  tumuli,  Danthes,  hie  sortc  jacebas, 

Squalenti  nulli  cognite  pene  situ. 
At  nunc  marmoreo  subnixus  conderis  arcu, 

Omnibus  et  cultu  splendidiore  nites. 
Nimirum  Bembus  Musis  incensus  Etniscis 

Hoc  tibi,  quem  imprimis  hic  coluere,  dedit. 

A  yet  more  magnificent   memorial  was  raised  so 

lately  as  the  year  1780,  by  the  Cardinal  Gonzaga." 

His  children  consisted  of  one  daughter  and  five 

sons,  two  of  whom,  Pietro'  and  Jacopo,*  inherited 


1  Pelli,  p.  104. 

9  Tiraboschi. 

In  the  Literary  Journal,  Feb.  16, 1804,  p.  103,  is  the  follow- 
ing article : — "  A  subscription  has  been  opened  at  Florence 
for  erecting  a  monument  in  the  cathedral  there,  to  the  mem- 
ory of  the  great  poet  Dante.  A  drawing  of  this  monument 
has  been  submitted  to  the  Florentine  Academy  of  the  Fine 
Arts,  and  has  met  with  universal  approbation."  A  monu- 
ment, executed  by  Stcfano  Ricci  of  Arezzo,  has  since  been 
erected  to  him  in  the  Santa  Croce  at  Florence,  which  I  had 
the  gratification  of  seeing  in  the  year  1833. 

*  Pietro  was  also  a  poet.  His  commentary  on  the  Divina 
Commedia,  which  is  in  Latin,  has  never  been  published. 
Lionardo,  the  grandson  of  Pietro,  came  to  Florence,  with 
other  young  men  of  Verona,  in  the  time  of  Leonardo  Are- 
tino,  who  tells  us  that  he  showed  him  there  the  house  of 
Dante  and  of  his  ancestors.  Vita  di  Dante.  To  Pietro,  the 
son  of  Lionardo,  Mario  Filelfo  addressed  his  life  of  our  Poet. 
The  (ton  of  this  Pietro,  Dante  III.,  was  a  man  of  letters,  and 
an  elegant  poet.  Some  of  his  works  arc  preserved  in  collec- 
tions :  he  is  commended  by  Valerianus  de  Infelicttate  Literat. 
lib.  1,  and  is,  no  doubt,  the  same  whom  Landino  speaks  of  as 
living  in  his  time  at  Ravenna,  and  calls  "■  uomo  molto  lite- 
rato  ed  eloquente  e  dcgno  dl  tal  sanguc,  c  quale  meritamente 
si  dovrebbe  rivocar  nella  sua  anticu  patria  e  nostra  repub- 
lica."  In  1495,  the  Florentines  took  Landino's  advice,  and 
invited  him  back  to  the  city,  offering  to  restore  all  they  could 
of  the  property  that  had  belonged  to  his  ancestors ;  but  he 
would  not  quit  Verona,  where  he  was  established  in  much 
opulence.  VeHutello,  Vita.  Ho  afterwards  experienced  a  sad 
reverse  of  fortune.    He  had  three  sons,  one  of  whom,  Fran- 


// 


LITE  OF  DANTE. 


95 


Mme  portion  of  their  father's  abilitiea,  whioh  they 
employed  chiefly  in  the  pioua  task  of  illuMiating  hia 
Dlrina  CommBdia.  The  fonuet  of  these  posBessod 
BCquiiemeDta  of  a  more  profitable  kind ;  and  obtain- 
ed considnrabla  wealth  at  Verona,  where  he  was 
Kttled,  by  the  exercise  of  the  legal  profeasioii.  He 
WIS  honored  with  the  friendship  of  Pelraich.  by 
wham  some  vetsea  were  addreraed  to  him'  at  Tre- 
Ti^,  in  1361. 

iliB  daughter  Beatrice'  (whom  he  ia  said  (o  have 
named  after  the  daughter  of  Folco  Porlinari)  become 
a  nim  la  the  convent  of  3.  Stefano  deli'  UUva,  it 
Ravenna ;  and,  among  the  entries  of  expenditure  by 
Uie  Florentine  Republic,  appeals  a  present  of  ten 
BDlden  Sorina  sent  to  her  in  VioO,  by  (he  bands  of 
Boccaccio,  from  the  slate.  The  imagination  can 
picture  to  itself  few  objecla  more  interesting,  than 
Ibe  daughter  of  Dante,  dedicated  to  the  service  of 
tdi^on  in  the  city  where  her  father's  aabea  were  de- 
paHted,  and  receiving  from  hia  countrymen  this  tardy 
tributs  of  their  reverence  for  his  diviae  genius,  and 

[I  i>  but  justice  to  the  wife  of  Dante  not  to  orail 
what  Boccaccio'  relates  of  her  ;  that  after  the  baa- 
Uunsnt  of  her  husband  she  secured  some  share  of 
bii  property  irom  the  popoiar  fury,  under  the  name 
of  ber  dowry ;  that  out  of  this  she  contrived  to 
■npport  their  little  family  with   eiemplary   discre- 


pJBI.  B  b  maiied  Fianelsci  ALigoiii  BBn'li."  UL'FIHI  DIb- 
•"■■»■*-  f^.  isi.  none  pilnigin  In  Iqcem  ediin*.    Piouo, 

rountBiii,! ' ■--'--  -— •^— ■ 

orBiMni,R> 

tV^^.    YfliinieiiD,  ID  niB  uw  ai  me  vimt,  ncKPuwieiiipa 
1  ebUnikHU  10  lbl>  lul  rislro  for  Ibe  inCorniallDO  he  hud 

'  teeopo  1>  uundDned  by  B^mbo  ainnsi  Ibe  Klnuiloii. 
Ub.lL  delU  Val(.  Ung.  al  Ihs  beMnnlDg;  uni  some  af  hia 
miM  an  pnwrved  m  MB.  in  ibe  Valicao.  and  si  Plorence. 

tWwT  Ttw  BUBBi  of  ?ui  Poet'i  nlher^iiDa  weia  Oabhello. 
Alinn,  and  Bllaeo.  Tbe  lui  iwo  dkid  In  thair  ehUiltiaod. 
WOalitelln.  noiUng  ceruln  li  koowa. 

■  PeIII.D.33.  '"^ 


lion;  and  Uiat  > 
pnmiiB  of  poverty,  tiy  such  indusCriauB  (t9brta  aa  in 
her  former  affluence  she  had  never  been  called 
on  to  piert.  Who  doe*  not  regret,  ttiat  with  qunl- 
itiea  bo  ratimable,  she  wunled  tho  aweelneJts  of  tem- 
per noCBBsary  for  riveting  the  nfieclioiui  of  her 
hUBbuid? 

Dante  wee  a  man  of  middle  stature  and  grave 
deportment;  of  a  visage  rather  long;  large  eyea ; 
an  aquiline  uose  ;  dork  compleiiian ;  large  and 
prominent  cbeek-banea ;  black  carling  hair  and 
beard;  the  under  lip  prqaeting  beyond  the  upper. 
Hb  montionB,  Id  the  Convito,  that  his  sight  hud 
bean  trauHenlly  impaired  by  intense  application  to 
books-^  In  hia  dresp,  he  studied  as  much  plainaen 
as  waa  suitable  with  his  rank  and  station  in  liie ; 
and  observed  a  strict  temperance  in  his  diet.  He 
was  at  titnes  eitrem^ly  absent  and  abstracted  \  and 
appears  lo  have  indulged  too  much  a  disposition  to 
Burcasm.  At  the  table  of  Can  Grande,  when  the 
company  was  amuaed  by  the  conversalion  and  tricks 
of  a  buffoon,  bo  vras  asked  by  hia  patron,  why  Can 
Grande  himself,  and  the  guests  who  were  present, 
failed  of  receiving  an  much  pleasure  from  the  ex- 
ertion of  bis  talents,  as  this  man  had  been  able  to 
give  them.     "  Because  all  creatorea  delight  in  their 

other  respects,  his  manners  are  said  lo  have  been 
dignified  and  polite.  He  was  particularly  carefnl 
jiQt  to  make  any  approaches  to  flatteryi  a  vioo 
which  he  justly  lield  in  the  utmost  abhorrence.  Ho 
spoke  seldouij  and  in  a  slow  voice ;  but  what  ha 
said  derived  authority  Crom  the  auhtdeneas  of  hia 
observations,  somewhat  like  liis  own  poetical  heroes, 


id  eills  might  mU  ffi 
a,  Prme  IVtrlu,  YDl.  1 


LITE  OF  DANTE.  27 

Parlavan  rado  con  voci  soavi. 

spake 

Seldom,  but  all  their  words  were  toneftil  iweet. 

UeU,  iv. 

He  was  connected  in  habits  of  intimacy  and  friend- 
ship with  the  most  ingenious  men  of  his  time ; 
with  Gnido  Cavalcanti  ;^  with  Buonaggiunta  da 
Lacca ;'  with  Forese  Donati  ;■  with  Cino  da 
Pistoia  ;*  with  Giotto,*  the  celebrated  painter,  by 
whose    hand  his    likeness"   was    preserved  ;    with 


1  See  Hell,  z.  and  notes. 

s  See  Pnrg.  xziv.  Yet  Tiraboschi  observes,  that  though  it 
is  not  improbable  that  Buonaggiunta  was  the  contemporary 
and  fiiend  of  Dante,  it  cannot  be  considered  as  certain.  Btor. 
della  Poes.  Ital.,  torn.  i.  p.  109,  Mr.  Matliias's  Edit 

*  See  Pnrg.  xjciiL  44. 

«  Guittorlno  de'  Sigibuldi,  commonly  called  Cino  da  Pistoia, 
^besides  the  passage  that  will  be  cited  in  a  following  note 
ironi  the  De  Vulg.  Eloq.,)  is  again  spoken  of  in  the  same 
treatise,  lib.  i.  c.  17,  as  a  great  master  of  the  vernacular  dic- 
tion in  his  Canzonl,  and  classed  with  our  Poet  himself,  who 
is  termed  "  Amicus  ejus  ;*'  and  likewise  in  lib.  ii.  c.  %  where 
he  is  said  to  have  written  of  "  Love."  His  verses  are  cited 
too  in  other  chapters.  He  addressed  and  received  sonnets 
from  Dante;  and  wrote  a  sonnet,  or  canzone,  on  Dante's 
death,  which  is  preserved  in  the  library  of  St  Mark,  at  Ven- 
ice. Tiraboschi,  della  Poes.  Ital.,  v.  i.  p.  116,  and  v.  ii.  p.  60. 
The  same  honor  was  done  to  the  memory  of  Cino  by  Pe- 
trarch, son.  71,  part  i.  "  Celebrated  both  as  a  lawyer  and  a 
poet,  he  is  better  known  by  the  writings  which  he  has  left  in 
the  latter  of  these  characters,"  insomuch  that  Tiraboschi  has 
observed,  that  among  those  who  preceded  Petrarch,  there  is, 
perhaps,  none  who  can  be  compared  to  him  in  elegance  and 
sweetness.  "There  are  many  editions  of  his  poems,  the 
mo:$t  copious  being  that  published  at  Venice  in  1589,  by  P. 
Faustino  Tasso ;  in  which,  however,  the  Padre  degli  Agos- 
tini,  not  without  reason,  suspects  that  the  second  book  Is  by 
later  hands."  Tiraboschi,  ibid.  There  has  been  an  edition 
by  Seb.  Ciampi,  at  Pisa,  in  1813,  &c. ;  but  see  the  remarks  on 
it  in  Gamba's  Testi  di  Lingua  Ital.  294.  lie  was  interred  at 
Pistoia,  with  this  epitaph :  "  Cino  exiniio  Juris  Interpretl  Bar- 
tolique  prsceptori  dignissimo  populus  Pistoriensis  Civi  suo 
B.  M.  fecit  Obiit  anno  1336."  Ouidi  Panziroli  de  Claris  La- 
rum  Jnterpretibus,  lib.  ii.  cap.  xxix.  Lips.  4to.  1721.  A  Latin 
etter  supposed  to  be  addressed  by  Dante  to  Cino  was  pub- 
ished  for  the  first  time  from  a  MS.  in  the  Laurentian  library, 
by  M.  Witte. 
6  See  Purg.  xi. 

*  Mr.  Eastlake,  in  a  note  to  Kugler*s  Hand-Book  of  Paint- 
ing, translated  by  a  Lady,  Lond.  1842,  p.  50,  describes  the 
discovery  and  restoration,  in  July,  1840,  of  Dante's  portrait, 
by  Giotto,  in  the  chapel  of  the  Podestk  at  Florence,  where  it 
had  been  covered  with  whitewash  or  piaster.  But  it  could 
scarcely  have  been  concealed  so  soon  as  our  distinguished 
artist  supposes,  since  Landino  speaks  of  it  as  remaining  in 
his  time,  and  Vasari  says  it  was  still  to  be  seen  when  he  wrote. 


28  LIFE  OF  DANTE. 

Oderi^  da  Gnbbio,'  the  illimmiator  j  sad  with  aik 

bli  CaseUa.  wham  be  ivnoed  la  licg, 

BenidEs  these,  his  acquainluice  eiteaded  lo  somfl 
□tbers,  whose  namta  illualrate  the  iiist  dawn  of 
Italian  JIteratute.  Lapa  degli  Ubertl  •'  Daale  ds 
Majaao  ;'   Cecco  Ang'ialieci ;°    Diuo  Frescobaldi )' 


Hu.ie  apurtaches  to  llie  i)lv)i,e  Cnmincdla.  (ibid.v.'ll.  p.  63,) 
tlwushMnoU  passes  on  It  n  much  less  fuvorahlD  sentence,  {see 


ilcb  Mr.  Bayleyhu  labnpidlylranslaleij.  (tee  Hell.  1.03;) 


tMendt  CaialcanU  end  UbBrdTlheagb  Ilil*  bu  bilhenn  bees 

■Dppofled  10  be  the  aelbor  hluiiein  "PlaninUQed;  end  last, 
tboogh  not  of  LoaAtrapard,  CUid  da  Ptsloia." 

'  ttaole  da  Usjsno  aonrlshed  aboal  1290.  He  nu  a  Fio- 
nntlne,  and  compoied  laany  jweeiH  In  pralu  of  a  Sidllaa 
lady,  wbo.  being  henelf  a  poetees.  waa  laReDillHe  nellbet  to 

Dante.    PalHj.  M,  ud  Tlnibaschl.  Storia  della  Poos.  Ital., 

in  ll''ow  iracea  ™^I  ni  Ind. 

Ibirleentb  century,  and  wrote  sevetal  sonnets  to  Dante,  nh^ch 

bianceofa  friend;  balLnnne  Ibe  innsh  drops,  and  shows  tbat 

Bloilad)  Valg.^^,  Y.1I.  par.  II.  lib.  II.  p.  103;  Pelll,  p.  Bl. 
■  [NiiD.sonafLamlwnDecloPrauobaldl,  Cregctinbent  (IMd. 

Plilaln.    Felll,  p.  Bl.    He  In  n^d  to  taaVB  been  a  IHetid  of 


LIFE  OF  DANTE.  29 

Gioyanni  di  Vir^ilio ;'  Giovanni  Quirino  f  and 
Francesco  Stabili,*  who  is  better  known  by  tho 
appellation  of  Cecco  d'Ascoli ;  most  of  them  either 
honestly  declared  their  sense  of  his  superiority,  or 
betrayed  it  by  their  vain  endeavors  to  detract  from 
the  estimation  in  which  he  was  held. 

He  is  said  to  have  attained  some  excellence  in 
the  art  of  desiring ;  which  may  easily  be  believed, 
when  we  consider  that  no  poet  has  afforded  more 
lessons  to  the  statuary  and  the  painter,^  in  the  va- 
riety of  objects  which  he  represents,  and  in  the 
accuracy  and  spirit  with  which  they  are  brought 
before  the  eye.  Indeed,  on  one  occasion,^  he  men- 
tions that  he  was  employed  in  delineating  the  figure 
of  an  angel,  on  the  fii^  anniversary  of  Beatrice's 
death.  It  is  not  unlikely  that  the  seed  of  the  Pa- 
radiso  was  thus  cast  into  his  mind ;    and  that  he  '[ 

was  now  endeavoring  to  express  by  the  pencil  an 
idea  of  celestial  beatitude,  which  could  only  be  con- 


^  Giovanni  di  Virgilio  addressed  two  Latin  eclogues  to 
Dante,  which  were  answered  in  similar  compositions ;  and  is 
said  to  have  been  his  friend  and  admirer.  See  Boccaccio, 
Vita  di  Dante ;  and  Pelli,  p.  137.  Dante's  poetical  genius 
sometimes  brealu  through  the  rudeness  of  style  in  his  two 
Latin  eclogues. 

3  Muratori  had  seen  several  sonnets,  addressed  to  Giovanni 
Quirino  by  Dante,  in  a  MS.  preserved  in  the  Ambrosian  li- 
brary. Delia  Perfetta  Poesia  Ital.  Ediz.  Venezia,  1T70,  torn, 
i.  lib.  1.  c.  ill.  p.  9. 

*  For  the  correction  of  many  errors  respecting  this  writer, 
see  Tiraboschi,  Stor.  della  Lett.  Ital.,  tom.  v.  lib.  ii.  cap.  ii. 
$  15,  &c.  He  was  burned  in  1317.  In  his  Acerba,  a  poem 
in  sesta  rima,  he  has  taken  several  occasions  of  venting  his 
spleen  against  his  great  contemporary. 

*  Besides  Filippo  Brunelleschi,  who,  as  Vasari  tells  us, 
diede  molta  opera  alle  cose  di  Dante,  and  Michael  Angelo, 
whose  Last  Judgment  is  probably  the  mightiest  effort  of 
modern  art,  as  the  loss  of  his  sketches  on  the  margin  of  the 
Divina  Commedia  may  be  regarded  as  the  severest  loss  the 
art  has  sustained ;  besides  these,  Andrea  Orgagna,  Gio.  An- 
gelico  di  Fiesole,  Luca  Signorelli,  Spinello  Aretino,  Giacomo 
da  Pontormo,  and  Aurelio  Lomi,  have  l>een  recounted  aniung 
the  many  artists  who  have  worked  on  the  same  original. 
See  Cancellieri,  Osservationi,  &c.  p.  75.  To  these  we  may 
justly  pride  ourselves  in  being  able  to  ndd  the  names  of  Rey- 
nolds. Fuseli,  and  Flaxman,  The  frescoes  by  Cornelius  in 
the  Villa  Massimi  at  Rome,  lately  executed,  entitle  the  Ger- 
mans to  a  share  in  this  distinction. 

^  "  In  quel  giorno,  nel  (juale  si  compieva  Tanno,  che  ques- 
ta  donna  era  fatta  delle  cittadinc  di  vita,  eterna,  io  mi  sedeva 
in  parte,  nella  quale,  ricordanUomi  di  lei,  io  disegnava  uno 
Angelo  sopra  certe  tavolette,  e  mentre  io  ii  disegnava.  VoM 
gli  occhi,  &r."    ^nia  JVuova,  p,  268. 


|| 


I 


'i 


30  LIFE  OF  DANTE. 

veyed  in  its  full  perfection  through  the  medium  of 
Bong. 

As  nothing  that  related  to  such  a  man  was 
thought  unworthy  of  notice,  one  of  his  biographers/ 
who  had  seen  his  hand-writing,  has  recorded  that 
it  was  of  a  long  and  delicate  character,  and  re- 
markable for  neatness  and  accuracy. 

Dante  wrote  in  Latin  a  Treatise  de  Monarchic, 
and  two  books  de  Vulgari  Eloquio.^  In  the  former, 
he  defends  the  Imperial  rights  against  the  preten- 
sions of  the  Pope,  with  arguments  that  are  some- 
times chimerical,  and  sometimes  sound  and  con- 
clusive. The  latter,  whicli  he  left  unfinished,  con- 
tains not  only  much  information  concerning  the 
progress  which  the  vernacular  poetry  of  Italy  had 
then  made,  but  some  reflections  on  the  art  itself, 
that  prove  him  to  have  entertained  large  and  philo- 
sophical principles  respecting  it. 

His  Latin  style,  however,  is  generally  rude  and 
unclassical.  It  is  fortunate  that  he  did  not  trust  to 
it,  as  he  once  intended,  for  the  work  by  which  his 
name  was  to  be  perpetuated.  In  the  use  of  his 
own  language  he  was,  beyond  measure,  more  suc- 
cessful. The  prose  of  his  Vita  Nuova  and  his  Con- 
vito,  although  five  centuries  have  intervened  since 
its  composition,  is  probably,  to  an  Italian  eye,  still 
devoid  neither  of  freshness  nor  elegance.  In  the 
Vita  Nuova,  which  he  appears  to  have  written  about 
his  twenty-eighth  year,  he  gives  an  account  of  his 
youthful  attachment  to  Beatrice.  It  is,  according 
to  the  taste  of  those  times,  somewhat  mystical :  yet 
there  are  some  particulars  in  it  which  have  not 
at  all  the  air  of  a  fiction,  such  as  the  death  of 
Beatrice's  father,  Folco  Portinari ;  her  relation  to 
the  friend  whom  he  esteemed  next  after  Guido  Ca- 


1  Leonardo  Aretino.  A  specimen  of  it  was  believed  to 
exist  when  Pelli  wrote,  about  sixty  years  ago,  and  perhaps 
still  exists  in  a  MS.  preserved  in  the  archives  at  Gubbio,  at 
the  end  of  which  was  the  sonnet  to  Busune,  said  to  be  in  the 
hand-writing  of  Dante.    Pelli,  p.  51. 

2  The-ie  two  were  first  published  in  an  Italian  transla- 
tion, supposed  to  be  Trissino's,  and  were  not  allowed  to 
be  genuine,  till  the  Latin  original  was  published  at  Paris 
in  1577.  Tiraboschi.  A  copy,  written  in  the  fourteenth 
century,  is  said  to  have  been  lately  found  in  the  public  li- 
brary at  Grenoble.  See  Fraticelli*s  Opere  minori  di  Dante, 
130  Fir.  1840,  v.  3.  pt«  ii.  p.  xvi.  A  collation  of  this  MS.  is 
ver>'  desirable. 


•I 


LITE  OF  DANTE.  31 

nanli  i  his  own  attempt  to  conceal  his  poauon, 
s  pretended  oltnchtneut  to  nuother  lady ;  and 
anguisb  lie  felt  at  llie  deatli  of  his  uiiiitceBS.' 
tells  us  loo,  that  at  ibe  time  o[  her  deeense, 
be  chanced  to  be  compoaing  a  oanxone  in  her  praise, 
I  that  he  was  Interrupted  by  that  event  at  the 


can  Bcarcely  suppose  to  have  been  a  mere  in- 

}f  the  poetry,  with  which  (he  Vita  Nuova  is 
plentifully  iiitersperaed,  the  two  saniielti  that  Tnllaw 
DUy  be  taken  an  a  specimeo.  Near  (he  beginning 
*^  lelaten  a  manellous  viaian,  which  appeared  to 
I  in  sleep,  BOOn  alter  his  oilBtrees  had  for  the  Rnt 
e  addressed  her  speech  to  bim  ;  ajid  of  this  dream 


All  health  •  In  I^i> 

Row  tm  lu  war  ihe  s 

DT  thwa  Iwelio  ho 

When  Love  wsa  xo 


Uy  I^dy  in  a  foldeil  gn 


'S«*(hoy'"»yffi, 


B«  wslw4l  ber :  a 


y  vie*  he  lornBd;  and  parted,  WHeplnfi- 
t,  Guido  Cavalcanti,  among  others, 


hlh< 


fHsodabip  wl 
Guida. 

The  other  soonot  is 
doalh  of  Beatrice : — 


L  happy  turn  to  the 
.he  Poet  had  been  bo 
from  the  Intercourse  thus  begun, 
eighteen  years  of  age,  arose  that 
rminaied  only  with  (he  deB(h  of 


le  that  WBB  written  after  the 


AhpUfllDBt  ye  thai,  haply  irnilni;.  go, 
On  SQchl  Bavo  Ihat  whlofa  dq  your  road  ye  i 

CoiOe  ye,  u  by  your  mien  and  loalrft  ye  shot 


33  LIFE  OF  DANTE. 

WbnL  ctvuicu  baib  Ikira,  why  she  In  grieving  3a  1 

WBll  Unow.  IhiB  licon.  ivWoli  Inl/itsheUi  <son, 
Thai  JB  wdold  ihen  mm.  wocping  dq  your  way. 

WoQjd  moke  s  alcuDEi^r's  E^e  Hot  Joaa  deplon. 
In  the  Canvito/  di  Banquet,  which  did  not  9 
low  till  some  lime  after  iile  bsniehment,  he  ¥ 
plains  very  much  St  large  Ibe  aetiBB  of  three,  1 
of  fourteen,  of  bis  canzonl,  tlie  lemainder  of  11' 
hs  had  intended  to  open  in  Ihe  Banui  m 
"The  viandsal  hia  Banquet,"  he  telle  hia  n 
qaaintly  enough,  "  will  be  set  out  in  fourteen  I 
ferent  mimners ;    that  ia,   wiU    1       ■        -    ■      ■» 

Witiioul  the  p 
from  some  ehado  of  obscurity,  so  bb  to  i>e  prizGi 
by  many  lesa  for  their  uspfulness  than  for  their 
beauty;  but  the  bread  will,  in  the  form  of  the 
present  exposition,  be  that  li^t,  which  will  bring 
forth  all  their  colors,  and  display  their  true  moan- 
ing to  the  view.  And  if  the  present  work,  which 
is  named  a  Banquet,  and  I  wish  may  prove  so.  be 
handled  after  a  mare  manly  guiae  than  Ihe  Vita 
Nnova,  I  intend  not,  therefore,  that  the  former 
abould  in  any  part  derogate  from  the  latter,  but 
that  the  one  should  be  a  help  la  the  other:  seeing 
that  It  ia  tilling  in  reason  for  this  to  be  fervid  and 
imptusloned ;  thai,  temperate  and  manly.  For  it 
hecamcs  us  to  act  and  speak  otherwise  at  one  age 
(kan  at  another ;  since  at  one  age,  certnin  man- 
nera  are  sailabte  and  praise -worthy ,  which,  at  an- 
other, become  dispTDpottionnte  and  blumeabie."  He 
tben  apologizes  for  speaking  of  himself.  "^I  fear 
the  disgrace,"  says  he,  "of  having  been  subject  to 
BO  much  paCHion,  as  one,  reading  these  canzoni, 
may  conceive  me  to  have  heen ;  a  disgrace,  that 
ia  removed  by  my  speaking  thus  unreaerredly  of 

In  Iinlian.    Od  Die  cHher  hnnd.  Bslbu  (Tiu  di  bmle.  t.  U. 
forelBner  mny  be  pennlLLed  10  judBO  for  bliiiuJf. 


LIFE  OF  DANTE. 


33 


m^lf.  which  shawB  not  passion,  but  virtus,  to 
have  been  Ihs  moving  cauiie.  I  intend,  moreover, 
to  Bet  forth  their  true  meaning,  which  some  ma.y 
not  perceive,  if  I  declare  It  not."  Ho  next  pio- 
ceeda  to  (pve  muiy  ressauB  why  his  commentary 
mu  not  nrittea  rather  in  Latin  than  in  Italian ; 
fur  which,  if  no  excuse  be  now  thought  necesBary, 
<t  mnst  be  lecollecled  that  the  Italian  language 
was  then  in  ita  infancy,  and  scarce  supposed  lo 
pcaaaa  i^gaity  enough  for  the  purpoiies  of  uistruc- 
lion.  "The  Latin,  he  allows,  "would  have  ex- 
plained his  canzoni  belter  lo  foreiguers,  as  to  the 
Gennans,  the  English,  and  otliers ;  but  then  it 
must  have  expounded  tlieir  sense,  without  the 
power  of,  St  the  same  lime,  transferring  tlieir 
bumly:"  and  he  soou  aflei  telk  us,  that  many 
neble  peisotis  of  both  sexes  were  iguoraut  of  the 
leuned  Isnguoge.  The  best  cbuho,  liowaver,  wliich 
ho  HwigUB  for  this  prefereuue,  was  hia  natural  lave 
of  Ilia  native  tongue,  and  the  deaha  he  felt  to  aialt 
it  above  the  ProvBujal,  which  by  many  waa  said 
to  be  the  more  beautiful  and  perfect  language  j  and 
BgsiDBt  auch  ot  his  countrymen  as  maintained  so 
nnpalriotic    an    opinion    hu    inveighs    with    much 

In  hk  exposition  of  the  first  caniono  of  the  three, 
he  tells  his  reader,  that  ■'  the  Lady,  of  wham  he 
was  enamored  after  hia  lirsl  love,  was  the  moat 
beauteous  and  honorable  daughter  of  the  Empoior 
of  the  univene,  to  whom  Pylhagoma  gave  the  name 
of  Philosophy :"  and  ho  applies  tlie  same  title  to  the 
Oliject  of  his  a&eclioni<,  when  he  is  commenting  an 
the  other  two. 

The  purpart  of  bis  third  canzone,  which  is  losa 
rajstsriaua,  and,  therefore,  perhaps  more  lillely  to 
phase  Iban  the  others,  is  to  show  that  "  virtue  only 
n  iiae  nobility."  Towards  the  conclusion,  oiler 
tmrillg  spoken  rif  vuiue  itself,  much  as  Pindar  would 
lure  spoken  of  it,  as  being  ■<  the  gift  of  God  only  ;" 

Chs  solo  Iddio  all'  aolnin  Is  dona. 
bs  thnc  deaoribea  It  as  actmg  throughout  the  several 


i1.  thB.t  gmtpeaa  like  lo 


LIFE  OF  DANTE. 


Flliy  Ihrouf  h  every  pan. 
In  riper  [OBnlkood.  (cjnpeiate,  flnnof  heaxt, 
vnib  love  replEnish'd,  and  with  CDuneooi  pT&^ 
In  loisl  deeds  aiimB  she  hsUi  dellghL 

His  lyric  puema,  indeed,  geaemlly  Btuid  much  in 
need  of  a  commeut  to  explain  them  ;  but  the  diffi- 
culty srisHB  lalJier  frDin  the  thouglild  theniBelvWi 
than  from  any  imperfection  of  the  language  ia  whioh 
thoiie  thoughts  Bra  conveyed.  Yet  they  abound  not 
only  iu  deep  moral  reflections,  but  in  touches  of.  . 
tendemeas  and  passion. 

Some,  it  has  been  already  intimated,  have  s. 
poeed  that  Beatrice  was  only  a  creature  of  Diuit<i¥( 
imsgiuation  ;  and  there  can  be  no  question  but  tl  '~ 
he  has  invested  her,  in  the  Divina  Cominedia,  w 
tha  BttribuleB  of  an  allegorical  being.     But  who  a 
doubt  of  her  having  had  a  real  existence,     ' 
apofcen  of  in  such  a  strain  of  passion  as  in 


The  canioae,  from  which  the  last  couplet  is  taken, 
presents  a  portrait  wliieh  might  well  supply  a  painter 
with  a  far  more  exalted  idea  of  female  beauty,  than 
he  could  form  to  biniself  &om  the  celebrated  Ode  of 
Anacreon  on  a  similnr  subject.  After  a  minute  de- 
scription of  those  parts  of  her  form,  which  the  gar- 
he  rsises  the  whole  by  the  superadditiou  of  a  moral 
grace  ar^d  dignity,  such  as  Ihe  Christian  religion 
alone  could  supply,  audsuch  as  the  pencil  of  Kuphael 
afterwatdfl  aimed  to  represent. 


LIFE  OF  DANTE. 
One  or  two  of  the  » 
timefl   coudeBcend   to   eportivf^i 
The  tbllowuig  to  Brunetto,  I 
hsTe  been  ssnt  with  his  Vita 
written  the  year  before  Bninoll 


Tan  haie  iunoiIB«  yaa  minT  ia|deiil  men, 
AU  Ounons  u  ivsi  Albrrt  Dt^alngDP. 
lIiATe  iHen  pofled  amid  l1ib[  learnod  ivint^ 

And  irthe^  caiiddL  HpelL  her  hnhl.  why  than 

ADotber,  Ihough  on  a  more  serious  subject,  ia  yet 
reraarkuble  for  a  fancifulness,  auch  as  that  with 
which  Chaucer,  by  a  few  spirited  touches,  often 
oonvoys  to  u»  imBge«  mora  striking  than  others  have 
dMie  by  repented  ind  elaborate  emais  of  skiJ). 
Came  MBlopchDly  lo  m)'  •He  one  dny. 

And  liniughl  sUmg  wllh  her  Id  componj 

And,  Uko  a  Orook,  «he  gnve  me  emnl  reply, 

A  lannept  new  of  rloLli  of  bliLck  he  hul. 

And  he,  «f  uuth,  nnfUinedly  was  "Yj"*-' 

And  he  iBjain^d :  "  fiul  ChoDehl  and  aognlflb  flore, 


ta  1591.    Mnnll.  In  hla  FropaMa,  under  the  n-ord  "Inilanre," 

fui  add*,  that  a  veA-  nm  MB.^pwiwBwd  »y  Ferecarl  •mOini 
It  lo  tluu  wiiler.  Co  Ibe  other  hnnd.  Hliilrtni,  in  b  Ihu 
tnallK~On  the  Lore  ofDsnle  and  on  the  Fonmll  of  Bea- 
Itfea,"  ftbtlei  at  Ploreoco  [n  1833,  loskoii  u  lillle  doubt  of  lu 
kaUR  ■■BDUie.  UiM  he  founds  on  it  IhE  chkf  ufnuent  to 

KprefOBtaHoo  of  Beslrlee.  See  Frailcolli's  Opeie  Uloori  di 
DaalB,  Inn.  1.  p.  ccUI.  19-,  Fir.  1834. 

>  nallulll  (Ihld.,  p.  Eccll.  ccUU.)  queilkini  the  genatne- 
BBB  of  (hit  umnel,  and  decMei  on  the  ipurlaaineu  of  that 
■jltcb  njllovi.  I  do  not,  la  eltbec  ImuiBce,  Itel  the  )iuiber 
OrbUKaioni. 


36  LIFE  OF  DANTE, 

to  lua  Drvina.  Comrnpdio,  [hough  that 

lowed  lo  bo  a  modol  of  llio    pui 

To   Ihia   Bingulur  productioa,  which  has 

Btood  the  test  of  ages,  but  given  it  tone  and  colot 

lo  the   poetry  of  modem  Europe,  ; 

mated  the  genius  of  Milton  and  of  Miohaol  Angelo, 

it  would  be  difficult  lo  assign   its  place  according 

lo    tlie    receiycd    rules    of    oriticism.      Some    have 

lermed  it  an  epic  poem ;  and  olh 

3  litlle  by  what  name  it  is  callod.  Jt  n 
fioes  that  the  poem  seines  oa  the 
great  holds,  terror  and  pily ;  detains  the  fancy  t| 
an  accurate  and  lively  delineation  of  Ihe  o" '  " 
it  represents ;  and  diaplaya  througliout  i 
originality  of  conception,  as  leaves  lo  Hoi 
Shaispeare  alone  the  power  of  challenging  t 
pre-eminence    or    equality.'      The    fiction,   ""'    "" 


LIFE  OF  DANTE.  37 

been  remarked,^  is  admirable,   and    the   work   of 
an  inventive  talent  truly  great      It  comprises  a 


nmnbered  257  in  the  archives  of  the  monastery,  which  con- 
tains the  works  of  Pietro  Diacono,  and  which  was  written 
between  the  yean  1159  and  1181.  The  probability  of  our  Fo- 
etus having  been  indebted  to  it,  was  first  remarked  either  by 
Giovanni  Bottari  in  a  letter  inserted  in  the  Deca  di  Simbolt, 
and  printed  at  Rome  in  1753 ;  or,  as  F.  Cancellieri  conjectures, 
in  the  preceding  year  by  Alessio  Simmaco  Mazzocchi.  In 
1801,  extracts  from  Alberico's  Vision  were  laid  before  the  pub- 
lic in  a  quarto  pamphlet,  printed  at  Rome  with  the  title  of 
Lettera  di  Eustazio  Dicearcheo  ad  Angelio  Sidicino,  under 
which  appellations  the  writer,  Giustino  di  Costanzo,  con- 
cealed his  own  name  and  that  of  his  friend  Luigl  Anton. 
Sompano ;  and  the  whole  has  since,  in  1814.  been  edited  in 
the  same  city  by  Francesco  Cancellieri,  who  has  added  to  the 
original  an  Italian  translation.  Such  parts  of  it  as  bear  a 
marked  resemblance  to  passages  in  the  Divina  Commedia, 
will  be  found  distributed  in  their  proper  places  throughout 
the  following  notes.  The  reader  will  in  these  probably  see 
enough  to  convince  him  that  our  author  had  read  this  singu- 
lar work,  although  nothing  to  detract  from  his  claim  to  origi- 
nality. 

Long  before  the  public  notice  had  been  directed  to  this 
supposed  imitation,  Malatesta  Porta,  in  the  Dialogue  entitled 
Rossi,  as  referred  to  by  Fontanini  in  his  Eloquenza  Italiana, 
had  suggested  the  probability  that  Dante  had  taken  his  plan 
from  an  ancient  romance  called  Guerrino  di  Durazzo  11  Mes- 
chino  The  above-mentioned  Bottari,  however,  adduced  rea- 
sons for  concluding  that  this  book  was  wTitten  originally  in 
Provencal,  and  not  translated  into  Italian  till  after  the  time 
of  our  Poet,  by  one  Andrea  di  Barberino,  who  embellished  it 
with  many  images,  and  particularly  with  similes,  borrowed 
from  the  Divina  Commedia. 

Mr.  Warton,  in  one  part  of  his  History  of  English  Poetry, 
(vol.  i.  8.  xviii.  p.  463,)  has  observed,  that  a  poem,  entitled  Le 
Voye  on  le  Songe  d'Enfer,  was  written  by  Raoul  de  Houdane, 
abrmt  the  year  1180 ;  and  in  another  part  (vol.  il.  s.  x.  p.  219) 
he  has  attributed  the  origin  of  Dante's  Poem  to  that  "  favor- 
ite apologue,  the  Somnium  Scipionis  of  Cicero,  which,  in 
Chaucer's  words,  treats 

of  heaven  and  hell 
And  yearth  and  souls  that  therein  dwell." 

Assembly  of  Fbules. 

It  is  likely  that  a  little  research  might  discover  many  other 
sources,  from  which  his  invention  might  with  an  equal  ap- 
pearance of  truth  be  derived.  The  method  of  conveying  in- 
struction or  entertainment  under  the  form  of  a  vision,  in 
which  the  living  should  be  made  to  converse  with  the  dead, 
was  so  obvious,  that  it  would  be,  perhaps,  difficult  to  mention 
any  country  in  which  it  had  not  been  employed.  It  is  the 
scale  of  magnificence  on  which  this  conception  was  framed, 
and  the  wonderful  development  of  it  in  all  its  parts,  that 
may  justly  entitle  our  Poet  to  rank  among  the  few  minds, 
to  whom  the  power  of  a  great  creative  faculty  can  be  as- 
cribed. 

^  Leonardo  Aretino,  Vita  di  Dante. 


I 


LIFE  OF  DANTE. 


oiiddle  B 


1   Ilie 


id  of  tlie 

hsps,  was  there  ever  any  odb  who  chose  a  more  am- 
ple and  fertile  subject ;  ao  as  to  aSbid  scope  for  the 
expreuion  of  all  his  ideas,  from  the  vast  multitude  of 
apirilB  tlmt  are  iotroduced  epenking  ou  Eiich  different 
topics ;  wlio  are  of  so  many  different  countriea  and 
agce,  and  under  circ  lunstances  of  fortune  so  etriking 
and  so  diveiaitied  ;  a.ad  wba  succeed,  one  to  another, 
whh  euch  a  rapidity  as  never  suffers  the  attention  for 

His  Bolicitude,  it  is  true,  to  define  all  lus  images 
in  such  a  manner  as  to  bring  them  distinctly  within 
the  circle  of  our  vision,  and  to  subject  them  to  Ihe 
power  of  the  pencil,  sometimes   renders   him.  little 
better    than    grotesque,    where    Milton    has  aim 
taught  UH  to  expect  sublimity.     But  his  faults,  i 
general,  were  leas  those  of  the  poet  tl 
in  which  he  Uved.      For  his  having  adopted  the  p(^;J 
ular  creed  in  all  its  extravagance,  we  have  ni 
right  to  blame  him  than  we  should  have  to 
Homer  because  ho  made  uso  of  the  heathen  d 
ties,  or  Sliaksptare   on  account  of  his  witches  N 
fairies.     The  supposed  influence  of  the  stars  oi 
dispoEition  of  men  at  their  nativity,  was  hardly  M 
arable   from  the   distribution  which   h     '     '        ' 
of  the  glorified  spirits  through  the  hes 
as  the  abodes  of  biies  suited  lo  their  et 
menle.     And  whatever  philosophers  may  think  1 
the  matter,  It  is  certainly  much  better,  foi     ' 
of  poetry  at  least,  that  too  much  should  bi 
rather  than  less,  or  even  no  more  than  can 
to  be  true.      Of  what  he  considered  the 
civil  Biid  religious  liberty,  he  is  on  all  oci 
zealous  and  fearless  advocate ;  and  of  that  MglK 


aasertor  equally  streonous  and  enlightened.  The 
conlempurary  of  Thomas  Aquinas,  it  is  not  to  be 
ivondered  if  he  has  given  hb  poem  u  tincture  of 
the  scholastic  Iheotogy  which  the  writings  of  that 
extraordinary  man  hod  rendered  so  prevalent,  gind 
without  which  it  coidd  not  perhaps  have  been  made 
Bcceplabie  lo  the  generality  of  his  readera.  The 
phraseology  has  been  accused  of  being  at  times  hard 
and   uncouth;  but,    if  this  is  acknowledged,  yet  it 


LIFE  OF  DAiNTE.  39 

mitst  be  remambered  that  ho  gavo  a  pannanent 
MHiDp  and  cboractar  to  Ihe  lunguag^  in  which  hs 
wrote,  aiid  in  whichj  bcforB  iiiia,  nothing  great  had 
been  altempted  ;  that  tha  diction  ia  etriutlj  veraacn- 
lor,  without  any  debasement  of  fnreigu  idiom  ;  (hat 
Mb  numbeiB  have  as  much  tariety  sa  Ihe  ItaUan 
longue,  at  least  in  Ihat  kind  of  metrB,  could  supply  j 

paaeed  him  in  the  hghtcr  graces  and  enibislliBhments 

cinctnesB.  rivncily,  and  sltenglh. 

Never  did  any  poeill  rise  so  suddenly  into  notlcs 
■Rer  the  death  of  Its  aulhor,  or  engage  the  public 
alteotion  more  powarfully,  Ihnn  the  Divina  Cam- 
media.  This  caunot  be  attributed  solely  <o  its  intrin- 
•ie  excellence.  The  fteeiiojii  wilh  which  the  writer 
bad  treated  (he  moat  dittiiiguiblud  rhoiactem  df  his 
time,  gave  it  a  further  aud  stronger  hold  011  the  cu- 
rionlf  Df  [he  age;  many  saw  in  it  their  acquaiiit- 
BBCca,  kinsmen,  and  fnends,  or,  what  scarcoly  touch- 
«d  them  leH  nearly,  their  eucmics,  either  eouaigned 
to  Infntny  or  recgrded  with  honor,  and  rcpreaenied  in 
aiurther  world  a»  tnaling 


ba  (ahen  lii(a  our  account,  when  we  coneldEr  the 
rapid  difliiiilon  of  the  work,  and  Ihe  unexnmpled 
pains  (bat  were  laken  to  render  It  universally  In- 
lelligiUe.  Not  only  the  profound  and  anbtlle  alle- 
goty  which  pervaded  it,  the  mplerioua  style  of 
pn^ecy  which  the  writer  occanionally  asiuraed, 
the  bold  and  unmual  meiaphon  which  he  every- 
where employed,  and  the  great  variety  of  know- 
ledge be  displayed  ;  but  bia  hasty  allusions  (o  pass- 
ing events,  and  his  description  of  persona  by  acci- 
dental cifcnmstaneea,  such  as  some  pecuUarily  of 
A>nn  or  feature,  the  place  of  their  nativity  or  abode, 
•one  office  tbey  held,  or  the  lieraldic  ineigma  (hey 
bore— bU  saked  for  Ihe  help  of  coiiuneutatots  and 
eipoundelB,  who  were  not  long  wanting  lo  the  task. 
Bcaidca  his  two  eons,  to  whom  that  labor  moat  prop- 
erty belonged,  many  others  were  found  ready  to 
engage  in  it.  Before  the  century  had  expired, 
Ihen  appoBTod  I'        -  '    ' -"' 


40 
Bonfan 


LIFE  OF  DANTE. 


t  FrBiiciscsn ;  of  Micchino   da  Atol 
lano,  a  e.anan  of  BaTenno;  of  Fra.   Riccai^,  i 
Cannelite ;  or  Andrea,  a  Neapolitan  ;  of  Goinirari 
BaxilBla,  ft  Bf^rgBineee ;  of  Fra.   Paolo  Albertindfj 
and  of  several  wnteia  wliose  name*  are  iuikna«' 
and  whoso  IoIIh,  when  Pelli 
in  the  dust  of  private  libraries,'    About  the  ; 
1350,  Giovanni  Viwanii,  orchbiehop  of  Milan,  ft 
lecled  BIX  of  the  moat  learned  men  in   Italj,  t 
divines,    two    philoaoplierB,   and    two    Florsnthu 
and  gave  it  Ihein  In  charge  lo  contribute  their  j)A 


I  copy  of  which  la  prpsen 
rentian  Ubrai^  at  Florence.  Vibi 
ia  no  longer  known ;  but  Jacopo  de 
Petrnrcb,  are  conjectured  to  Iibvo  b 
number.  At  Florence,  a  public  led 
ed  for  the  purpose  of  explaining  a  j: 
at  the  same  time  th«  boast  and  tlie 
oily.  The  decree  for  this  insiilulii 
in  1373;  and  in  thai  year  Boccaei 
their  writera  in  proae,  we 
nual  ealury  of  a  hundred 
tu  one  of  ihe  churchee,  o 


ippoii 


tin  Ihe  L 


>r  lectud 


it'  their  p 
On  tliJB  occaBJou  he  wrote  his  comment,  which  <i 
l«ndB  only  lo  a  part  of  the  Inferno,  and  haa  b 
printed.     In  1375  Boocnccio  died ;  and  an 
successors  in  tliis  honorable  employment  we 
names  of  Antonio  Piovano  in  1381,  and  ol 
Villaiii  m  1401. 

The  example  of  Florence  was  speedily  follai, 
by  Bologna,  by  Pisa,  by  Piacenxa,  and  by  Veidj 
Bi^tiveuuto  da  Itiiola,  on  whom  the  office  of  It 
Inrer  devolved    at    Bologna,   sustained   i 


IT,  delLn  Fdes.  luJ..  vol.  II.  p.  39;  uhIPi 


by  LhobD  deimlfld  la  cnrrepl  Ihe  DeeuiKTOD,  In  Itie  ftteftce  la 
tbo\i  Biplnnafory  noles,  nnd  nho  b«mn  bifl  work  In  3334,  it 
kooK-n  to  bcJflcopo  dolls Linn^  and  Ihst  hla  mmineniary 
WBH  tmn^lsted  Inia  Latin  hy  AlbvrigD  da  Bmadn,  llvclnr  at 


^M 


LIFE  OF  DANTE, 


biatory  of  Ilaly,  have  been  piibUahed  by  Muraton,' 
At  Piaa,  the  SBme  charge  wus  cammilted  to  Fron- 
DcBCO  da  Buti  about  138b'. 

On  Uie  invention  of  printing,  in  the  euoCEediDg 
eenluiy,  Dnnie  was  one  of  Ihosa  writera  wlio  were 
first  and  moat  freijuently  given  lo  the  preBs.     But  1 

gdiliaiiB  of  our  author,  wbicb  wore  then,  or  have 
HDCC  been  pnblisbed ;  but  ahali  content  myself  with 
adding  such  remaika  aa  have  occurred  lo  me  aa 
rrading  the  principal  writers,  by  wbose  notes  those 
editioaB  have  been  accompanied. 

Of  the  four  chief  commentators  on  Dante,  name- 
ly, Landino,  Vellulello,  Venluri,  and  Lombardi,  the 
nret  appoare  to  enter  most  thoroughly  into  the  mind 
of  the  Poet.  Within  little  more  than  a  cealiuyof 
the  time  in  which  Dante  had  lived ;  himaelf  a  Flo- 
imtine,  while  Florence  was  still  free,  and  still  rs- 
(ained  something  of  her  nneient  armplicily ;  the 
■iHDciate  of  IhoBB  Ereat  men  who  adorned  the  age 
of  Lorenzo  de'  Medici ;  Landino''  was  the  most 
capable  of  forming  some  estimate  of  the  mighty 
stature  of  his  compatriot,  who  was  mdeed  greater 
than  them  all.  His  taste  for  the  classics,  which 
were  then  newly  revived,  and  had  become  the  prin- 
cqial  objects  of  public  curiosity,  aa  it  impaired  his 
reli^  for  what  hns  not  inaptly  been  termed  the  ro- 
mantic literature,  did  not,  it  is  true,  improve  him  for 
B  critic  on  the  Divhia  Commedia.  The  advenlurea 
of  King  Arthur,  by  wliich'  Dante  had  been  de- 
U^ted,  appeared  to  Landino  no  better  than  a  fabo- 
iMiB  and  inelegant  book.*  He  is,  besides,  sometunes 
tmoeceBSatily  pmlii ;  at  others,  ailent,  where  a  real 


43  r.IFE  OF  DANTE. 

difficulty  Bsks  rnr  Balution;  unci,  now  and  then,  • 

tary  at  hia  siiccesBOr,  Vellulvlto,'  ia  more  evenly 
diffused  over  the  text ;  and  although  without  i)re- 
lenaiona  to  tho  higher  quulltlea.  hy  wliich  Lnndino 
ia  distinguiBhcd,  he  i»  generally  under  Ihe  influence 
of  a  sober  good  Beaae,  which  reudera  hun  a.  ateiidy 
and  useful  guide.  Venturi,"  who  followed  after  a 
long  uilervaJ  of  time,  was  loo  much  awayed  hy  Idl 

liiui  to  judge  fau-ly  of  a  Ghibellinc  poet ;  and  ellbel 
this  bias,  or  a  real  want  of  tact  for  the  higher  J 
exceltence  of  hia  autbor,  or,  ppthspo,  tioth  these  Im-  J 
perfections  together,  tietrsy  him  into  auch  imperii^  1 
neut  and  injudicioua  M>llle«,  as  dispose  us  to  qnarref  I 
with  our  companion,  tliougb,  i      ' 

generally   acute  and   lively,  and  B^JI 
'    ■ "  r  underatanding  ft" 

times,  has  succeeded  the  Padre  Lomhardi.' 


n  not  devoid  of  i 


"iSfl 


self  n 


of 


out  and  separate  thoM  eatif  J 
:aped  tile  flail  uf  those  whd^  1 
1  that  labor.     But  hja  letf  1 


80  strangely  perverted.     Hjb  manner  of 
awkward  and  tedious ;  his  attention,  more  than  J 
necessuiy,  directed  to  grammatical  niceUe 


and  hia  opposition  la  Yen 
Lken  him  into  a  perception 
1  had  only  exorcised  the  splesi 


LIFE  OF  DANTE.  43 

hitherto  appeared,  must  make  use  of  these  four,  but 
depend  on  none.  To  them  he  must  add  several 
others  of  minor  note,  whose  diligence  will  neverthe- 
less be  fonnd  of  some  advantage,  and  among  whom 
I  can  particularly  distinguish  Volpi.     Besides  this,  j 

many  commentaries  and  marginal  annotations,  that 
are  yet  inedited,  remain  to  be  examined ;  many 
editions  and  manuscripts^  to  be  more  carefully  col- 
lated; and  many  separate  dissertations  and  works 
of  criticism  to  be  considered.  But  this  is  not  all. 
That  line  of  reading  which  the  Poet  hunself  appears 
to  have  pursued  (and  there  are  many  vestiges  in  his 
works  by  which  we  shall  be  enabled  to  ducover  it) 
must  be  diligently  tracked ;  and  the  search,  I  have 
little  doubt,  would  lead  to  sources  of  information, 
equally  profitable  and  imexpected. 

If  there  is  any  thing  of  novelty  in  the  notes 
which  accompany  the  following  translation,  it  will 
be  found  to  consist  chiefly  in  a  comparison  of  the 
Poet  with  himself,  that  is,  of  the  Divina  Commedia 
with  his  other  writings  f  a  mode  of  illustration  so 
obvious,  that  it  is  only  to  be  wondered  how  others 
should  happen  to  have  made  so  little  use  of  it.  As 
to  the  imitations  of  my  author  by  later  poets,  Italian 
and  English,  which  I  have  collected  in  addition  to 
those  few  that  had  been  already  remarked,  they 
contribute  little  or  nothing  to  the  purposes  of  illus- 
tration, but  must  be  considered  merely  as  matter  of 
curiosity,  and  as  instances  of  the  manner  in  which  ij 

the  great  practitioners  in  art  do  not  scruple  to  profit  1 

by  their  predecessors. 

according  to  the  order  of  time  in  which  they  were  written, 
and  accompanied  by  a  Latin  translation  fbr  the  use  of  for- 
eigners.    Cancellieri,  ibid.  p.  64. 

>  The  Count  Mortara  has  lately  shown  me  many  various 
readings  he  has  remarked  on  collating  the  numerous  MSS. 
of  Dante  in  the  Canonici  collection  at  the  Bodleian.  It  is  to 
be  hoped  he  will  make  them  public.    TJan.  1843.J 

9  The  edition  which  is  referred  to  in  the  following  notes, 
is  that  printed  at  Venice  in  2  vols.  8vo.  1793. 


It 


CHRONOLOGICAL  VIEW 

OF 

THE    AGE    OF    DANTE 


A.D. 

1265  May.— DANTE,  son  of  Alighieri  degli  AU- 

ghieri  and  Bella,  is  born  at  Florence.  Of 
his  own  ancestry  he  speaks  in  the  Paradise, 
Canto  XV.  and  xvi. 

In  the  same  year,  Manfredi,  king  of  Naples 
and  Sicily,  is  defeated  and  slain  by  Charles 
of  Anjou.     H.  xxviii.  13,  and  Purg.  iii.  110. 

Guido  Novell©  of  Polenta  obtedns  the  sover- 
eignty of  Ravenna.     H.  xxvii.  38. 

Battle  of  Evesham.  Simon  de  Montfort,  lead- 
er of  the  barons,  defeated  and  slain. 

1266  Two  of  the  Frati  Godenti  chosen  arbitrators  of 

the  differences  of  Florence.     H.  xxiii.  104. 

Gianni  de'  Soldanieri  heads  the  populace  in 
that  city.     H.  xxxii.  118. 

Roger  Bacon  sends  a  copy  of  his  Opus  Majus 
to  Pope  Clement  IV. 
1268  Charles  of  Anjou  puts  Conradine  to  death, 
and  becomes  king  of  Naples.     H.  xxviii.  16, 
and  Purg.  xx.  66. 
1270  Louis  IX.  of  France  dies  before  Tunis.     His 
widow  Beatrice,  daughter  of  Raymond  Be- 
renger,  lived  till  1295.     Purg.  vii.  126.    Par. 
vi.  135* 
1272  Henry  III.  of  England  is  succeeded  by  Ed- 
ward I.     Purg.  vii.  129. 

Guy  de  Montfort  murders  Prince  Henry,  son 
of  Richard,  king  of  the  Romans,  and  ne- 
phew of  Henry  III.  of  England,  at  Viterbo. 
H.  xii.  119.  Richard  dies,  as  is  supposed, 
of  grief  for  this  event. 

Abulfeda,  the  Arabic  writer,  is  bom. 
1274  Our  Poet  first  sees  Beatrice,  daughter  of  Folco 
Portinari. 

Rodolph  acknowledged  emperor. 

Philip  III.  of  France  marries  Mary  of  Bra- 
bant, who  lived  till  1321.     Purg.  vi.  24. 


L 


CHRONOLOGICAL  VIEW.  45 

1274  Thomas  Aquinas  dies.     Purg.  xx.  67,  and  Par. 

X.  9a 

Buonaventura  dies.    Par.  xiL  25. 

1275  Pierre  de  la  Brosse,  secretary  to  Philip  III.  of 

France,  executed.    Purg.  vi.  23. 

1276  Giotto,  the  painter,  is  bom.     Purg.  xi.  95. 
Pope  Adrian  V.  dies.     Purg.  xix.  97. 

Guido  Guinicelli,  the  poet,  dies.  Purg.  xi.  96, 
and  xxyi.  83. 

1277  Pope  John  XXI.  dies.     Par.  xii.  126. 

1278  Ottocar,  king  of  Bohemia,  dies.     Purg.  vii. 

97.  Robert  of  Gloucester  is  living  at  this 
time. 

1279  Dionysius  succeeds  to  the  throne  of  Portugal. 

Par.  xix.  135. 

1280  Albertus  Magnus  dies.     Par.  x.  95. 

Our  Poet's  friend,  Busone  da  Gubbio,  is  bom 
about  this  time.  See  the  Life  of  Dante  pre- 
fixed. 

William  of  Ockham  is  bom  about  this  time. 

1281  Pope  Nicholas  III.  dies.     H.  xix.  71. 

Dante  studies  at  the  universities  of  Bologna 
and  Padua. 

About  this  time  Ricordano  Malaspina,  the  Flo- 
rentine annalist,  dies. 

1282  The  Sicilian  vespers.     Par.  viii.  80. 

The  French  defeated  by  the  people  of  Forli. 

H.  xxvii.  41. 
Tribaldello  de'  Manfredi  betrays  the  city  of 

Faenza.     H.  xxxii.  119. 

1284  Prince  Charles  of  Anjou  is  defeated,  and  made 

prisoner  by  Rugier  de  Lauria,  admiral  to 
Peter  III.  of  Aragon.     Purg.  xx.  78. 

Charles  I.  king  of  Naples,  dies.     Purg.  vii.  111. 

Alonzo  X.  of  Castile,  dies.  He  caused  the 
Bible  to  be  translated  into  Castilian,  and  all 
legal  instmments  to  be  drawn  up  in  that 
language.     Sancho  IV.  succeeds  him. 

Philip  (next  year  IV.  of  France)  marries  Jane, 
daughter  of  Henry  of  Navarre.  Purg.  vu. 
102. 

1285  Pope  Martin  IV.  dies.     Purg.  xxiv.  23. 
Philip  III.  of  France  and  Peter  III.  of  Aragon 

die.     Purg.  vii.  101  and  110. 
Henry  II.  king  of  Cyprus,  comes  to  the  throne. 
Par.  xix.  144. 


^3= 


ia  CHRONOLOGICAL  VIEW 

1285  Simon  Memmi,  the  pBinter,  celobreted  by  P«. 

1387  Guido  dulle  Coloone  (laeationed  by  Danta  in 

his  Db  Vulgari  Eloquio)  writea  "  The  War 
of  Troy." 
Pope  Ilonorius  IV.  dies. 

1388  Haquin,  king  of  ]N'orwu)-  mukea  wai  on  Dea> 

mark.     Pot.  lix.  J3j, 
Count  Ugolino  do'  GhBrardsschi  diee  of  fajnine. 

H.  miiii.  14. 
Tliu  Scottish  poet,  Thomas  Leannouth,  com- 

mouly  called  Thomus  Iho  Rhymer,  is  Uving 


Me  sorves  in  thn  war  waged  by  the  Floren- 
tini^H  upon  tlie  Pisane,  and  ia  present  at 
the  surrender  of  Cuprona  in  the  antumn. 
H.  x«i.  92. 

Gnido^alleColoun^-dies. 

William,  marquis  of  Montferrat,  ia  made  pria- 
oner  by  biu  traitomus  subjects,  at  Alessaa- 
drill  in  Lombardy.     Purg.  Tii.  133. 

Michael  Scot  dies.    H.  ix.  115. 

1291  Dante  marries  Giinima  de'  Donati,  with  whom 

he  lives  unhappily.     By  this  majriage  he 

had  five  Bons  and  a  daughter. 
Can    Grande    dcila   Strain  is  bom,  March  9. 

H.  L  98.     Purg.  „.  16.     Par.  xvii.  75,  and 

xxvii.  135. 
The  renegade  Christians  asxist  the  SaraeeiBto 

recover  Si.  John  D'Acre.     H.  xxvii.  84. 
The  Emperor  Rodolph  dies.     Purg.  vi.  104, 

Alonzo  IIL  of  Aragoii  dies,  and  ia  succeeded 
by  Jamea  II.  Purg,  vii.  113,  and  Par.  xix. 
133. 

Eleanor,  widow  of  Henrj'  III.  dies.  Par.  ri.  135. 

1292  Pope  Nicholas  IV.  dies. 
Roger  Bacon  dies. 

John  Baliol,  king  of  Scotland,  crowned. 
1394  Clement  V.    abdicates   the   papal   chair.     H. 

Daule  writes  hm  Vila  Nuova. 


OF  THE  AGE  OF  DANTE. 


47 


1294  Fra  Guiflone  d'Areiio,  the  poel.  dies.     Purg. 
xiiv.  56. 
Andrea  Taffi,  of  Florence,  the  worker  in  Mo- 

1995  Dante'a  prsceplor,  Bruncllo  Lutiiii,  dies.    H, 


irick,  BOZ)  of  Peler  III.  of  Aragon,  be- 
lting of  Sicily-  Purg.  vii.  117,  and 
X.  127. 

tho  phyaciian  of  Florence,  called  the 
cratean,  diea.     Par.  xil.  77. 

Pdo,  the  traveller,  retume  from  the 

Bast  to  Vemce. 

IV.ofCuEtile  comea  to  the  throne. 


Far.  I 


.  laa. 


I39G  Focese,  the  oompanion  uf  Dante,  dies.     Pnrg. 

Sadi,  the  oiOBt  celebrated  of  the  Peiaian  wri- 

Wb[  between  England  and  Scotland,  which 
tenainales  in  the  Bubmiaaion  of  thu  Scots  to 
Edward  I. ;  bat  hi  the  fgllowine  year.  Sir 
Williara  Wallace  altemptfl  the  deliverance 
of  Scotland,     Far.  xix.  121. 

I99S  Tbe  Emperor  Adolphua  falla  in  a  battle  with 
lug  rival,  Albert  I.,  who  aucceeda  him  in  the 
Empire.    Piirg.  vi.  96. 
Jacopo  da   Varagine,  archbiahop  of  Genoa, 
author  of  the  Legends  Aurea,  diea. 

13O0  The  Bianca  and  Nera  patties  lahe  their  iiB» 


H.  I 


This  is  1 

109. 

He  ia  choBeo  ohi 

PtiDtB  of  Flore 

Line  15  t 

/ 

Caaabue 

Guido  C 

Eivalcanti 

Poel-a 

frienda, 

di 

CHRONOLOGICAL  VIEW 

S  Januarr  37.    During  his  Bbsenoe  at  Some, 

Dante  is  mulclcd  by  his  fellow-citizeiu  in 

tbe  sum  of  BOM  lire,  and  condemned  to  Iwa 

years'  banishment. 

March  10.     He  is  senlonced,  if  taken,  to  be 

buined. 
Fulcieri  de'  Caiboli  commits  great  atrocities 
on  certain  of  the  Ghihelliiie  party.     Purg. 

Carlino  dc'  Fazzi  hetiayg  the  castle  di  Piano 
Tmvi,rue,  iu  Vuldarno,  to  the  Florentines. 
If.  XYxii.  ti7. 

Tlif  l-'ffnch  vanquished  in  Ibe  battle  of  Cour- 

JamcB,  khi^  of  .Majorca  and  Minorca,  diss. 
Par.  six.  1,'!:). 

55.     Pure. 

.    ,  --. ji.30. 

The   other   exiles    uppoint    Dante    uiie   of    a 

Roraena.  He  uppcare  to  have  been  mach 
dioBatisfied  wilh  his  colloaeoeB.  Par.  ivii. 
61. 

Robert  of  Brunno  translatea  into  Engliah  verse 
the  Manuel  de  Fech6s,  a  trsatiae  written  in 
French  by  Robert  GrosseteKte,  bishop  of 
Lincoln. 
i  Danle  joins  with  the  exiles  in  an  iinsuccessTuI 
attack  on  the  city  of  Florence. 

May.  The  bridge  over  the  Amo  breaks 
down  during  a  tepresontatJon  of  the  uifer- 
nal  torments  exhibited  on    tliat  river.     H. 


1305  'Winceslaus  II.  king  of  Bohemia,  dies.     Purg. 

vii.  99   aud  Par.  lit.  123. 
A   eonflagratioa  happens    at    Florence.       H. 

xivi.  9. 
Sir  William  Wallace  is  executed  at  London. 

1306  Danle  visits  Padua. 

J307  He  ie  in  Lunigiana  with  the  Marchese  Mar- 
cello  Malaspina.     Purg.  viii.  133  ;  xix.  140. 
Dolcino,  the  fanatic,  is  burned.     H.  xxviii.  53 
Edward  II.  of  England  comes  to  the  throne. 


or  THE  AGE  OF  UANTE.  49 

1308  The  Emptror  Albert  I.  murderad.     Purg.  vi. 

9ti,  and  Pur.  iLx.  114. 
CoiBO  Uonati,  Daatu'a  political  eueniy,  alaiu. 

Purg.  nxiv.  81. 
He  seeks  au  aeylum  at  Verona,  utider  the  loof 

af  ihe  Signori  dellu  Scalu.    Fui.  xvii.  69. 
He  wandviB,  about  tti'a  ticio,  over  various  parts 

or  Italy.     See  bin  Convito.     He  is  at  Parin 

B  aecand  time  ;  and,  according  to  one  of  tlie 

early  commenlatorB,  Viaita  Oxford. 
Sobert,  the   patron  of  Petrarcii,  in   crowned 

klnBotSMIy.    Pit.  i,.  2. 
Duna  Seotufl  diea.     Ho  was  bom  about  the 

oaroa  lime  as  Daute. 

1309  Charlta  U.  Iting  of  Naples  dies.      Par.  ids. 

125, 

1310  The  Order  of  tlie  Teraplore  abolished.     Pu^. 

XX.  94. 
Jean  de  Mean,  tlie  contiiiuer  of  the  Roman 

de  la  ItcfflC,  dies  abnut  Ihia  time. 
Pier  Ctesccuzi  of  Bologna  writes  hia  hook  on 

agriGoltiuo,  in  Latin. 

1311  Fra  Giordano  da  Rivatta,  of  Pisa,  a  Domi- 

nican, tlie  author  of  eemiuna  eeteemed  for 
the  purity  of  the  Tiucsii  luuguage,  dies. 
1319  Robert,  king  of  Sicily.  oppu«(»  the  cortms' 
lion  of  tlie  Emperur  Henry  VH.     Par.  viii. 
59. 

Ferdmand  IV.  of  Castile,  dies,  and  is  succeed- 
ed by  Aloozo  XI. 

Dino  Compagni,  a  distinguished  Florentine, 
couolodea  his  history  of  his  own  lime,  writ- 
ten in  elegant  Italian. 

Gaddo  Gaddi,  tlie  Florentine  artist,  dies. 

1313  The    Emperor   Henry   of   Lnxemburgh,   by 

whom  he  had  hoped  to  be  restored  to  Flor- 
ence, dies,  Pat.  jtvii.  80,  and  im.  135. 
Henry  Is  encceeded  by  Lewis  of  Bavaria. 

Dante  takes  refuge  at  Ravenna,  with  Guido 
Novella  da  Polenta. 

Giovanni  Bitccaccio  is  bom. 

Pope  Clement  V.  dies.  H.  xix.  gS,  and  Far. 
uvii.  53,  and  mx.  Ul. 

1314  PhiUp  IV.  of  France  dies.    Purg.  vii.  108,  and 

Par.xix.  IIT. 
Ixinig  X.  succeeds. 


60  CHRONOLOGICAL  VIEW. 

A.  D. 

1314  Ferdinand  IV.  of  Spain,  dies.     Par.  xix.  122. 
Giacopo  da  Carrara  defeated  by  Can  Grande, 

who    msikes    himself   Master    of  Vicenza. 
Par.  ix.  45. 

1315  Louis  X.  of  France  marries  Clemenza,  sister 

to  our  Poet's  friend,  Charles  Martel,  king 
of  Hungary.     Par.  ix.  2. 

13 16  Louis  X.  of  France  dies,  and  is  succeeded  by 

Philip  V. 
John  XXII.  elected  Pope.     Par.  xxvii.  53. 
Joinville,  the  French  historian,  dies  about  this 

time. 

1320  About  this  time  John  Gower  is  bom,  ei^t 

years  before  his  friend  Chaucer. 

1321  July.     Dante  dies  at  Ravenna,  of  a  complaint 

brought  on  by  disappointment  at  his  failure 
in  a  negotiation  which  he  had  been  con- 
ducting with  tlie  Venetians,  for  his  patron 
Guide  Novello  da  Polenta. 
His  obsequies  are  sumptuously  performed  at 
Ravenna  by  Guido,  who  himself  died  in  the 
ensuing  year 


V 


52  THE  VISION.  18-39. 

My  senses  down,  when  the  true  path  I  left ; 

But  when  a  mountain's  foot  I  reach'd,  where  closed 

The  valley  that  had  pierced  my  heart  with  dread, 

I  look'd  aloft,  and  saw  his  shoulders  hroad  ! 

Already  vested  with  that  planet's  beam,^ 

Wlio  leads  all  wanderers  safe  through  every  way. 

Then  was  a  little  respite  to  the  fear, 
That  in  my  heart's  recesses'*  deep  had  lain  ' 

All  of  that  night,  so  pitifully  pass'd : 

And  as  a  man,  with  difficult  short  breath,  j 

Forespent  with  toiling,  'scaped  from  sea  to  shore,  I 

Tums^  to  the  perilous  wide  waste,  and  stands  i 

At  gaze  ;  e'en  so  my  spirit,  that  yet  fail'd, 
StruggHng  with  terror,  turn'd  to  view  the  straits 
That  none  hath  pass'd  and  lived.     My  weary  frame  : 

After  short  pause  recomfortcd,  again  : 

I  joumey'd  on  over  that  lonely  steep. 
The  hinder  foot  still  finner.^     Scarce  the  ascent 
Began,  when  lo  !  a  panther,^  nimble,  light,  ; 

And  cover'd  with  a  speckled  skin,  appear'd ; 
Nor,  when  it  saw  me,  vanish'd ;  rather  strove  ] 

To  check  my  onward  going ;  that  oft-times. 
With  purpose  to  retrace  my  steps,  I  turn'd. 

The  hour  was  morning's  prime,  and  on  his  way 
Aloft  the  sun  ascended  with  those  stars," 
That  with  him  rose  when  Love  divine  first  moved 
Those  its  fair  works :  so  that  with  joyous  hope 
All  things  conspired  to  fill  me,  the  gay  skin''  , 


1  TTiatplaneVsbeam.]    The  sun. 

^  My  heart's  recesses.]    Nel  lago  del  cuor. 

Lombardi  cites  an  imitation  of  this  by  Red!  in  his  Ditirambo : 

I  buon  vini  son  quegli,  che  acquctano 
Le  procelle  si  foschc  c  rubella, 
Che  nel  lago  del  cuor  Tanime  inqnictano. 

*  Turns.]    So  in  our  Poet's  second  psalm : 

Come  colui,  che  andando  per  lo  bosco, 
Da  spino  punto,  a  quel  si  volgc  c  guarda 

Even  as  one,  in  passing  through  a  wood, 
Pierced  by  a  thorn,  at  which  he  turns  and  looks. 

*  TVic  hinder  foot.]  It  is  to  be  remembered,  that  in  as- 
cending a  hill  the  weight  of  the  body  rests  on  the  hinder 
foot. 

6  Jl  panther.]    Pleasure  or  luxury. 

^  With  those  stars.]  The  sun  was  in  Aries,  in  which  sign 
ho  supimses  it  to  have  liegun  its  course  at  the  creation. 

'  The  £ray  skin.]  A  late  editor  of  the  Divina  Commedia, 
Bignor  2^utti,  has  spoken  of  the  present  translation  as  the 


n-a.  HELL,  Canto  I.  53 

Of  that  awtft  aniniBl,  fhe  matiD  ilawn, 
And  Ihe  sweet  stasau.     Soon  Iljut  joy  was  chased, 
And  hy  new  dread  Buccoeded,  when  in  view 
A  lion'  cime,  'gainst  me  aa  it  appea.r'd, 
Wall  his  head  held  alolt  and  huuger-inKd, 
That  e'en  the  air  waa  fear-«traoli.    A  she-wolf' 
Was  at  hia  heel^i  who  in  her  leautidBB  Baem'd 
Full  of  all  wanUi  and  aiaay  a.  land  hath  made 
DiBcoDBalale  ere  now-    She  with  such  fear 
O'erwheliued  me,  at  the  ijight  of  her  appall'd, 
Thftt  of  the  heiglit  all  hope  I  laet    As  one. 
Who,  with  his  gain  elnled,  sees  the  time 
When  ali  uuwaies  is  goue,  he  inwardly 


only  SfW  [bm  bus  nmdereil  Ibis  paange  righllT:  bat  Mr. 

UW  Ant  Uiree  Cantoa  of  the  Inrenia.  Insened  In  the  nolei  In 
Ui  Buay  gn  Epjc  Paelrf : 

By  UwH  brif  bl  (miens  af  my  liile  benign. 

The  bemjImHiH  beul  luid  tbe  evJml  bonr  of  jirinis. 
Ail  Ibp  CoiniueDlaloffg,  whom  I  have  seen,  nndenlBod  our 
day  tDduced  bim  lubope  fnf  Uiegny  skin  of  Ihe  puilher;  ind 

MlowHl  Hill  ippenn  10  me  Ibe  nwre  pmbslile. 

•^.ir™tf.]    Anulce 


"When 


:a  by  our  a 


OfTOn  of  Kome.  It  la  (br  rVidn  iioprobnbte  Lhat  dot  anthor 
might  have  bad  a  Bccond  allcfory  of  IhU  bdti  Id  his  view; 
oTenaii  BpensDr  Id  tbaintnidncbHylBLterla  bis  paeai.  BbUidb 
■hafln  Ibe  Fueiy  auosp  be  meunt  Ulnry  bibU  eBDeml  1n- 


vid  elDrtmni  pemui  of  htRWVBrBlKpthtiQqbBn."  "And  ye;.'* 
heiuuli.  "In  noma  ulaeeii  Biielda  atbemiH  Bhadew  her-" 
Maeb  InvDluildn  aTallet^cnl  mmnings  lunv  well  be  tappoied 
In  have  been  freanBuliyprBsenlmthe  ntlnd  of  Dnnte  throagb- 
DDl  Ibe  EmniwalUon  of  lld<  poem.    Whslher  hli  Kcats  and 

moihuio  fucla  IhapnnullefofnvnlilehypolhBiliEi.lBKnnlbBr 

^aiinonl  go  the  Oiylon  Cnmmedin  nnd  in  the  9pliii<i  Anilna- 
f*le.  the  Uller  of  which  worki  li  ARilbarliKi  to  the  EnBllib 


54  THE  VISION.  53-80. 

Mourns  with  heart-griping  anguish ;  such  was  I, 
Haunted  by  that  fell  beast,  never  at  peace, 
Who  coming  o'er  against  me,  by  degrees 
Impell'd  me  where  the  sun  in  silence  rests.' 

While  to  the  lower  space  with  backward  step 
I  fell,  my  ken  discem'd  the  form  of  one         [speech. 
Whose   voice  seem*d  faint  through  long  disuse  of 
When  him  in  that  great  desert  I  espied, 
"  Have  mercy  on  me,"  cried  I  out  aloud, 
"  Spirit !  or  living  man !  whatever  thou  be." 

He  answered :  "  Now  not  man,  man  once  I  was, 
And  born  of  Lombard  parents,  Mantuans  both 
By  country,  when  the  power  of  Julius'  yet 
Was  scarcely  firm.     At  Rome  my  life  was  passM, 
Beneath  the  mild  Augustus,  in  the  time 
Of  fabled  deities  and  false.     A  bard 
Was  I,  and  made  Anchises'  upright  son 
The  subject  of  my  song,  who  came  from  Troy, 
When  the  flames  prey'd  on  Ilium's  haughty  towers.* 
But  thou,  say  wherefore  to  such  perils  past 
Retum'st  thou  ?  wherefore  not  tWs  pleasant  mount 
Ascendest,  cause  and  source  of  all  delight  ?" 
"  And  art  thou  then  that  Virgil,  that  well-spring 
From  which  such  copious  floods  of  eloquence . 
Have  issued  ?"  I  with  front  abash'd  replied. 
"  Glory  and  light  of  all  the  tuneful  train ! 
May  it  avail  me,  that  I  long  with  zeal 
Have  sought  thy  volume,  and  with  love  immense 


1  Where  the  sun  in  silence  rests.'\ 

The  sun  to  luc  is  dark, 
And  silent  as  the  moon, 
When  she  deserts  the  night. 
Hid  in  her  vacant  interlunar  cave. 

Milton,  Sam.  Jigtm. 

The  same  metaphor  will  recur,  Canto  v.  verse  29. 

Into  a  place  I  came 
Where  light  was  silent  all. 

*  When  the  power  of  Julius.] 

Nacqui  sub  Julio,  ancorche  fosse  tardi. 

This  is  explained  by  the  Commentators :  '*  Although  it  were 
rather  late  with  respect  to  my  birth,  before  Julius  Cesar  as- 
sumed the  supreme  authority,  and  made  himself  perpetual 
dictator."  Virgil,  indeed,  was  bom  twenty-five  years  before 
that  event. 

'  mum's  haughty  towers.] 

Ceciditqne  superbura 
Ilium.  Virgil,  JSin.  !U.  3. 


./ 


Bi-ioa.  HELL,  Cahto  1.  51 

Hare  connM  it  o^bt.     My  master  thou,  and  guide  V 
Thoa  he  fmni  whom  alono  I  Imre  derived 
That  Klyle,  which  for  iLi  beaut)'  into  lama 
EisllH  me.     See  t}ie  beast,  from  wham  I  fled. 
O  Have  me  from  her,  thou  iltuBtrioua  sage  ! 
For  every  vein  and  poise  throughput  my  framB 
She  faalh  niiula  tremble."     He.  soou  as  he  saw 

Another  way  piixsue,  if  thou  wouldet  'ncapa 
From  out  that  savage  wildemesa.     This  beast, 
At  whom  tliDU  crirat,  her  way  will  siiSrr  aotie 
To  pam,  aud  at  lesH  hind'ranee  makee  thau  death  : 
So  bad  aud  8o  accursed  m  her  kiud. 
That  never  sated  is  her  ravenous  will, 
Still  after  food'  more  craving  than  before. 
To  many  au  animat  in  wedlock  vile 
Sha  fastens,  and  shall  yet  to  many  more, 
Until  that  greyhound'  come,  who  aball  destroy 
Her  witli  sharp  pain.     He  will  not  lifu  support 
By  earth  nor  its  buse  metals,  but  by  love, 
Wisdom,  apd  virtue  ;  and  his  land  shall  be 
The  land  'Iwixl  either  Feltro.'     In  his  might 


at  the  VErse  Ld  Itie  original  is  barrawed  by 

.  _J    Tills  paniogQ  has  tieon  rammnnly  ita- 

|»i»i.Ca«OnmrtedBllflBualB.        "    '  "        '     "™"" 

•  'TWii  nttir  FUtrt.l  Verona,  ilia  eounlrir  of  Can  dolla 
»a»k,  Is  •UiUEsd  iHiween  Fetira,  a  city  In  tlto  Uarci  Trivt- 
itfua,  and  Uoale  FelDD.  a  clir  Id  llie  lonitofy  of  Urtlno. 

BolDiuiW  IxniiiiH  doonDOI  nergly  point  out  the  plus  of 
UB  flnurle'B  ntHvliT.  for  he  mayalfnilo  flintier  (o  a  pro- 
pb»CJ-,  MurtlKMl  10  Mletiael  Bcol,  which  jmponed  Ihat  lbs 
"Dn^ofVi.ninu  mmld  he  laid  of  failuH  and  ofall  lbs  Uatca 
TrivliUna."  k  waafBimieainlhe  yenr  ]:H9,  a  tlnle  befivs 
Can  Grande'ii  di.-iiih.    Soe  O.  Vlllant  Blit.  1. 1,  cap.  cv.  and 

dbtii  itaffl  Aiilli'hi  PiKll.  &C..  JiHBlsd  al  Ihe  end  of  Ihe  ZntU 


56  THE  VISION.  103- 

Shall  safely  lo  Italia's  plaiim'  flrba, 

For  whose  fair  raalm,  Camilla,  virgin  para, 

Niaua,  EuryuluB,  and  TurnuB  foil. 

Ho,  with  iacosfiont  chase,  Ihroiigh  BVeiy  town 

Bhall  worry,  until  he  to  hoU  at  length 

KeBtoro  her,  thence  hy  envy  firat  let  Iodbb. 

I,  for  thy  profit  pondering,  now  deviHo 

That  thou  DiayBt  follow  me  ;  and  I,  thy  goida, 

Will  lead  thee  hence  through  an  eternal  sjmicb, 

Where  tJiuu  shalt  hear  despairing  shrieks,  and  sf 

Spirits  of  old  lormented,  who  invoke 

A  seooud  death  ;■  and  those  next  view,  who  dwt 

Coutent  in  £re,'  for  that  they  hope  to  come, 

Whenever  the  time  may  be,  among  the  blest, 

Into  whose  remans  if  thou  then  deshe 

To  ascend,  a  spirit  -worthier*  than  1 

Must  lead  thee,  in  vhoee  charge,  when  1  depa 

Thou  shall  be  left :  for  thai  Ahnighty  Kmg, 

Wiio  reigns  above,  a  rebel  to  his  law 

Adjudges  1110  ;  aud  iheretore  hath  decreed 

That,  lo  hi*  city,  none  through  me  should  eian 

He  ill  all  partfl  hath  Bway ;  there  rules,  there  bdii 

Hid  citadel  and  tlirone-     O  happy  Ihoi 

Whom  there  he  chooses!"     I  to  him  i 

"  Bard  I  by  Ibut  Uud,  whom  thou  didst  not  odoraj 


1i.7S.   TrolBinSBlVEn 


_...  .„..  .  .  .  _..iil(iTBoia»Kloor 

led  In  a  (etUiiB  fltar  llsrlo,  In  vMeb  Ihsmiir  deserHns 
addnaalng  hUa  ns  a  utranger,  nnd  dmlrlDfl  blni  w  ntm- 
il  purrton  of  Ibe  pneiu  lo  UmicciDno.    TllBIe  ' 

1  la  the  Dlhei  chief  public  prousctoia  ol  our  poei  annnf 

lid'i  plaltu.']   "Uiolle  IBIla,"  frooi  Virgil,  £d^  lib. 

HtimlleuiqDe  vidomns 


1 1 


I 

/ 


128-133.  HELL,  Canto  IL  57 

I  do  beseech  thee  (that  this  ill  and  wone 
I  may  escape)  to  lead  me  where  thou  saidst, 
That  I  Saint  Peter's  gate^  may  view,  and  those 
Who,  as  thou  tell'st,  are  in  such  dismal  plig^t^ 
Onward  he  moved,  I  close  his  steps  pursued. 


CANTO    IL 


» 


ARGUMENT 

After  the  invocation,  which  poets  are  used  to  prefix  to  their 
works,  he  shows,  that,  on  a  consideration  of  bis  own 
strength,  he  doubted  whether  it  sufficed  for  the  journey 
proposed  to  him,  but  that,  l)eing  comforted  by  Virgil,  he 
at  last  took  courage,  and  followed  him  as  his  guide  and 
master. 

Now  was  the  day  departing,'  and  the  air, 
Lnbrown'd  with  shadoi^'s,  from  their  toils  released 
Ail  animals  on  earth ;  and  I  alone 
Prepared  myself  the  conflict  to  sustain, 
Both  of  sad  pity,  and  that  perilous  road. 
Which  my  unerring  memory  shall  retrace 

0  Muses !  O  high  genius !  now  vouchsafe 
Your  aid.     O  mind  !*  that  all  I  saw  hast  kept 
Safe  in  a  written  record,  here  thy  worth 
And  eminent  endowments  come  to  proo£ 

1  thus  began :  "  Bard !  thou  who  art  my  guide. 
Consider  well,  if  virtue  be  in  me  || 
Suflicient,  ere  to  this  high  enterprise  !i 
Thou  trust  me.  Thou  hast  told  that  Silvius' sire,*  \'- 
Yet  clothed  in  corruptible  flesh,  among 

The  immortal  tribes  had  entrance,  and  was  there  ;  \ 

Sensibly  present.     Yet  if  heaven's  great  Lord,  'I 

1 1 

1  Saint  Peter's  gate.]     The  gate  of  Purgatory,  wliich  the  j 

poet  feigns  to  l)C  guarded  by  an  angel  placed  on  that  station 
by  St.  Peter. 

»  JWno  was  the  day."]  A  compendium  of  Virgil's  descrip- 
tion, iEn.,  lib.  iv.  522.  Compare  Apoilonius  Rhodius,  lib.  iiL 
744,  and  lib.  iv.  1058. 

The  day  gan  failin ;  and  the  darkc  night. 
That  revith  bestis  from  their  businesse, 
Berafte  me  my  booke,  &c. 

Chaucer.     The  .Assemble  of  Fbules. 


\.  s  Omind.] 


O  thought !  that  write  all  that  I  met, 
And  in  the  tresoric  it  set 
Of  my  braine,  now  shall  men  see 
If  any  virtue  in  thee  be. 

Chaucer.     Temple  of  Eainey  b.  ii.  v.  18. 

*  Silvius"  8ire.\    i'Eneas. 


68  THE  VISION. 

Almighty  fae  to  ill,  BUch  favoi  libow'd 
lu  Gontemplatiou  of  the  high  eiS6ct, 
Both  what  Bud  who  from  him  should  iHoe  foKb, 
II  seemH  in  fcbsod'b  judgment  well  deserved ; 
Sith  he  of  Rome  and  of  Rome's  empire  wide, 
In  heaven's  ompyroiLl  height  was  choflen  elre: 
Both  tvhich.  if  truth  be  Epokcn,  were  onhun'd 
And  Btablieh'd  for  the  holy  place,  where  nls 
Who  to  great  Fetei's  sacred  chair  succeeds. 
He  from  Ihia  journey,  in  thy  song  renown'd, 
Leam'd  things,  that  to  his  victory  gave  riso 
And  to  the  papal  robe.     In  aftor-times 
The  choHfii  voasel'  also  travcll'd  there,' 
To  bring  us  bock  ascurance  in  that  faith 
Which  ie  the  entrance  to  salvation's  way. 
But  I,  why  should  I  there  presuma?  or  who 
Permits  it?  not  Xneae  I,  nor  Paul. 
Myself  I  deem  nol  worthy,  and  none  else 
Will  deem  me.     I,  tf  on  this  voyage  then 
I  ventore,  feai  it  wiL  m  folly  end. 
Thon,  who  art  wise,  better  my  meanmg  know'st. 
Than  I  can  speak."     As  one,  who  unreeolvee 
What  he  hath  late  resolved,  and  with 
Changes  his  purpose,  from  his  Just  inti 
Removed  ;  e'en  such  was  1  on  tlial  dun  coast, 
Waatuig  in  thought  my  enterprise,  at  Grst 
So  eagerly  emhmced.     "  If  right  lliy  words 
I  scan,"  replied  that  eliade  magnaojinoua, 
"  Thy  soul  is  hy  vila  fear  auaait'd,'  which  oft 
So  overcasts  a  man,  that  he  recoils 
From  noblest  rasolution,  like  a  beast 
At  some  false  sembl-ance  in  the  twilight  gloom. 
That  from  this  terror  thou  mayst  free  thyself, 
I  will  instruct  lliee  why  1  came,  and  what 
I  heard  in  that  name  instant,  when  for  thee 
Grief  touch'd  me  finit.     I  was  among  the  tribsj 
Who  rest  suspended,'  when  a  dome,  so  blest 


HELL,  Casto  II.  69 

id  lovely  I  bonmi^t  Tier  la  cammiuid, 
ll'd  me  ;  lier  eyes  were  brigbter  than  the  star 
)f  day ;  and  she,  with  gentle  voice  aiiil  soft, 
Angelically  tuned,  ber  speech  addrev^'d : 

•  O  courtoona  shade  of  Mantua '.  tliou  whoss  fame 
■  Yet  lives,  and  shall  Uve  long  as  nature  lasts ! ' 

'  A  friend,  not  of  niy  fortune  but  myeelf,' 

'  On  the  wide  draert  in  lua  road  has  mot 

'  Hind'ranoeso  grenl,lhat  he  through  fparhaa  turn'd. 

'  Now  much  I  dread  lest  he  past  help  have  atray'd, 

'  And  I  bo  risen  loo  late  fur  his  relief, 

'  From  what  in  heaven  of  him  I  hcanj.    Speed  now, 

'  And  by  thy  eloquent  pereuoHye  tongue, 

'  And  In  all  means  for  his  deliverance  meet, 

'  AvtBt  him.    80  to  mo  wUl  comfort  spring. 

'  I,  who  now  hid  theo  on  this  errand  forth, 

'  Am  Beatrice  ;'  from  a  place  I  come 

'  Rvvinled  with  joy,     lyivo  brought  mo  Ihenca, 

'Who  prompts  my  speech.     When  in  my  Master's 

'  I  stand,  thy  praise  to  him  I  oft  will  tell.'  [sight 

"  She  then  was  silent,  and  I  thus  began : 
'  O  Lady !  by  whoso  influeuce  alone 
'Mankind  excels  whatever  is  cnntain'd' 
'  Within  that  heaven  which  hath  tliu  Bmallcsl  orb, 

•  80  thy  comraaud  ilehghtB  ine,  that  to  obey, 
'  If  it  were  done  already,  would  seem  late. 

'  No  need  host  then  farther  to  apeak  thy  Hrill : 
'  Tet  tell  the  reason,  why  (hon  art  nc*  loth 
'  To  leave  that  ample  space,  where  lo  return 
'  Thoa  bumest,  for  this  centre  here  beneath.' 


Sh  Us  PTDjxHla,  uniter  ths  wonl  "  Liinlaiiaro/' 
■  J  frUnd,  not  of  ny  fortunp  iiU  myself.]    Se  non  fDrtuiuB 

CwTiiJii  JV^((j  ^ItUI  ViliB,  c.  t«. 
CaUra  fonane,  odb  men  miSm.  ftili. 

•JMWim.]  The  dai^hter  of  Fplcn  Portimil,  who  l>  here 
InVMtd  wilh  Ibe  rbanielor  of  eclnsUal  wtsdoio  01  IheDlo^. 
8es  Ihs  Ule  of  Daau  prellied. 

*  tHalner  ii  aniiain-i.]    Every  giher  thine  couiuriwa 


"Shelbeik:  'Since  IliDnBadeeplywDuldBt  inquire, 
'  I  will  inaUnct  tbee  brieBy  wby  no  diead 
'  Hindera  luy  entrance  heiB,     Tbose  IhiiigB  alone 


0  be  fEB 


ievlln 


■  Ndqs  else,  for 

'  I  am  so  framed  by  God,  thanks  t 
'  Tbat  any  pufferanca  of  your  misi 

<  Toucbea  me  not,  nor  flamo  of  tbai  Derce  are 
^  Assails  me^     In  hi^  beaysa  a  blessed  dame^ 

'  Resides,  who  mourns  with  such  effi^ctual  grief 
'  TbBt  hind'ianGc,  which  I  send  Iboe  to  remove, 
'  TliHl  God's  stem  judgment  to  ber  will  inclinta. 

<  To  Lucia'  calUng,  liel  sbo  tbns  bespske : 

"  Now  dolb  tby  fnitbful  serrant  need  thy  md, 
*'  And  1  commend  bim  to  thee/*     At  her  word 

■  Sped  Lucia,  of  all  cruelty  the  foe, 

^  And  coming  to  tbo  place,  where  1  abode 

'  Seated  with  Itacbsl.  ber  of  ancient  days, 

'  She  thus  addiess'd  me:  "  Tbou  true  praise  of  Qod  1 1 

"  Beatrice !  why  is  not  thy  succor  lent 

"  To  lura,  who  so  much  toyed  Uiee,  as  to  learo 

"  For  thy  sake  all  the  multitude  admireB? 

"  Doat  thou  not  hear  how  piliful  bia  wail, 

"  Nor  msrk  the  dealli,  which  ill  llie  torrent  flood,  J 

"  Swoln  mightier  tlian  a  sea,  him  struggling  holi^f^ 

■  Ne'er  among  men  did  any  with  such  speed 
'  Haste  (0  their  probt,  fles  from  their  annoy, 
'  As  when  these  words  wore  spoken,  I  came  here. 


'  Down  froi 


atmgl 


Lo  tore. 


'  Of  thy  pure  eloquence,  which  thee,  and  all 
>  Who  well  have  maik'd  it,  into  honor  brin^' 

*'  When  she  had  ended,  her  bright  beammg  ercs  J 
Tearful  she  tura'd  aside  ;  whereat  I  felt  " 

Redoubled  zeal  to  sene  thee.     As  she  will'd. 
Thus  am  I  corae;  I  saved  thee  from  the  beaat, 
Who  Ihy  near  way  across  the  goodiy  mount 
Prevented.     What  is  this  comes  o'er  then  then 
Why,  why  dost  thou  hang  hack !  why  in  thy  bi 
Harbor  vile  fear  J  wliy  haal  not  courage  tl 


Aafl. 


HELL,  Ciaro  ID. 

ng;  since  three  tmiids,'  to  blent, 
n,  n'en  in  tbe  court  of  heaven  ; 
n  good  my  words  foreliode  V 


Bent  down  and  closed,  wtien  day  h 

Ktee  oil  unfolded  on  tiieir  splry  stents ; 

So  woB  my  fainting  vigor  new  restored, 

And  to  my  licart  such  kindly  uoiimge  ran, 

ThBt  I  a«  ono  undaunted  eoon  replied : 

"  O  full  cf  pity  she,  who  undertook 

My  auccorl  and  thou  kind,  who  didst  perform 

So  soon  her  true  behest  I     With  sucli  desire 

Thou  hitst  disposed  mc  to  renew  my  voyage, 

That  my  first  purpoee  fully  is  r?siuned. 

Lead  on ;  one  only  will  is  in  us  both. 

Thou  art  my  guide,  my  master  thou,  and  lord." 

So  spake  r  ;  and  when  he  hud  onward  moved, 
I  entei'il  on  the  deep  and  woody  way. 


CANTO 

ML 

ARGUMENT. 

Ouilc,  IhilowliigVirgU.  conies  to  Ihe  pie  of  Hoil 

(lb.  living  1.  coDld  not  L«  «.[M)  la  a  <UM  of  Bps 
fildlflireni«bolhto(ooil«ndovll.    ThEn  pnnni 

"■hars. 
wrllien 
.ftom 

lif  sad 

■  l%ra  miid4.i  Th 

mvlK  Mat 

andBHi 

trice. 

*JI.  f,r^-i 

CmBetantlaM 

ChlMlO  B  ihiDIO 

uo  lopta  a  : 

nmbbina., 
Mtrab,,  p.  111.  St. 

s£fa 

Aad  ipreden  In  h 

■  Uironghth 
b«  lUlliei 

I  kinde  rnw^ 

told  of 
owe. 
brigtil. 
obrrawe 

gh. 

TIl"  'ft  imitated  by  Diaay  1 

3£u<)  Boceacclu H^iln'lii  Ibe Teaulde,  Lib'. B, al. a& 


THE   VISION. 


"  TmioUGH  ma  yoa  paea  into  the  ciiy  olwo: 
Tlirough  jne  you  pass  into  eternal  pain ; 
Tlirough  IQB  among  ttie  people  loet  for  aye.  i 

Justice  the  foonder  of  my  fabric  moved! 

Supremeal  wiadora,  and  primeval  love.' 

Berore  me  tilings  create  were  none,  eave  things 

Eteranl,  and  ateraal  I  endure. 

All  hope  abandon,^  ye  who  enter  here." 

Snch  characlerB,  in  color  dini,  I  mark'd 
Over  a  poFta.ra  lofty  arch  inacrilied. 
Whereat  1  thus :  *'  Maeter,  theee  words  import 
Haid  meaning."     He  bb  one  prepared  replied : 
"  Here  Ihou  muBtall  dietniBt  behind  thee  leaye; 
Hare  be  vile  feai  eitinguiah'd.    We  are  come 
Where  I  have  tald  tliee  we  ahall  see  the  soub 
To  miaeiy  doom'd,  whn  iiilelleclual  good 
Have  lodt"    And  when  his  haiid'  he  had  ei 
To  mine,  with  pleasant  looka,  whence  I  was  che 
Into  that  secret  place  he  led  me  an. 

Here  aigha,*  with  lamentations  and  loud 
Resounded  through  the  air  [nerced  by  no  i 
Thai  e'en  I  wept  at  entering.     Varioua  lo 
Horrible  languages,  outcri^  of  wo, 
Acceats  of  anger,  voices  deep  and  hoarse, 
With  hands  together  smote  that  swell'd  the  so 
Made  Qfi  a  tumult,  that  for  ever  whiiks 
Round  through  (hat  sit  with  solid  dariutess  sUdn'd^n 


\k 


«. 

isogni 

1. 

TMAiim 

»  leneh 

■..!S5!"M 

3»-S3,  HELL,  CAnm  nL  63 

Like  to  the  saad'  that  in  the  whirlwind  flies. 

1  [lien,  vith  HiTOc'  yet  encomiiaifi'il,  cried : 
"  O  mosler  •  what  is  this  I  hear  ?  what  rmo 
An  thpBo,  who  seem  so  overcome  with  wol" 

He  thus  to  me  :  "  This  nuHerable  [ate 
SuSer  the  wretched  Boula  of  those,  who  lived 
Without  or  praise  or  bluine,  with  that  ill  bond 
Of  angels  mix'd,  who  nor  rebellious  proved. 

Were  only.     From  his  bounds  licuveii  drove  them 
Not  to  impair  his  lustre  ;  uor  the  depth  [forth, 

Of  Hell  receives  them,  lest  the  accursed  tribe* 
Should  glory  Ihence  with  exultation  vain." 

I  then:  "Master!  what  doth  aggrieve  them  thus. 
That  they  lament  so  loud]"     He  stroi^t  replied: 
•■  That  will  I  tell  thee  briefly.     These  of  death 
Ko  hope  may  entertain :  and  their  blind  life 
So  meanly  passes,  that  all  other  lots 
They  envy.     Fame*  of  them  the  world  hath  none. 
Nor  suffers  ;  mercy  and  justice  scorn  them  both. 
Speak  not  of  Ihem,  but  look,  and  pass  them  by." 

And  I,  who  straightway  look'd,  beheld  a.  flag,' 
Which  whirling  ran  around  so  rapidly. 
That  it  DO  puuse  abtun'd :  aud  foUawing  corns 
Such  a,  long  train  of  spirits,  I  should  ne'er 


m.  Id  ealllac  it  "leskne  di  oIidd  oiiaia;"  "a  resiUni 
wMeh  naonshu  observed." 
•  Latau  iirt%rit^ trilnA    Leil  IberebcllioiuiuiRBliihDald 


iho  plxiulbln  InuwptoBllDnof  Mooll,  who  WDnldtove  "bIch- 


•  ^Atg.)  — ■-  All  Ihe  (Tlijv  leelont  Ibat  u 


1 1 

I 


64  THE  VISION.  54rT7. 

Have  thought  that  death  so  many  had  despoii'd. 

When  some  of  these  I  recognised,  I  saw 
And  knew  the  shade  of  him,  who  to  base  fear' 
Yielding,  abjured  liis  liigh  estate.     Forthwith 
I  understood,  for  certain,  this  the  tribe 
Of  those  ill  spirits  both  to  God  displeasing 
And  to  his  foes.     These  wretches,  who  ne'er  lived. 
Went  on  m  neikedness,  and  sorely  stung 
IJy  wasps  and  hornets,  which  bedew'd  their  cheeks 
With  blood,  that,  mix'd  with  tears,  dropp'd  to  their 
And  by  disgustful  worms  was  gather'd  there,     [feet, 

Then  looking  farther  onwards,  I  beheld 
A  throng  upon  the  shore  of  a  great  stream : 
Whereat  I  thus :  "  Sir !  grant  me  now  to  know 
Whom  here  we  view,  and  whence  impell'd  they  seem 
So  eager  to  pass  o'er,  as  I  discern 
Through  the  blear  light  ?"  ^     He  thus  to  me  in  few : 
"  This  shalt  thou  know,  soon  as  our  steps  arrive 
Beside  the  woful  tide  of  Acheron." 
Then  with  eyes  downward  cast,  and  fiU'd  with  shame. 
Fearing  ray  words  offensive  to  his  ear. 
Till  we  had  reach'd  the  river,  I  from  speech 
Abstain'd.     And  lo !  toward  us  in  a  bark 
Comes  on  an  old  man,^  hoary  white  with  eld. 


Ti'Tio  to  base  fear 


Yieldivff,  abjured  his  high  estate. J 

This  is  commonly  understood  of  Celestine  the  Fifth,  who  ab- 
dicsited  the  papal  power  in  1294.  Vcnturi  mentions  a  work 
written  by  Innoccnzio  Barccllini,  of  the  Celestine  order,  and 
]>rinte<l  at  Milan  in  1701,  in  which  an  attempt  is  made  to  put 
a  diflerent  interpretation  on  this  passjipe. 

Lombard!  would  apply  it  to  some  one  of  Dante's  fellow- 
citizens,  who,  refusing,  through  avarice  or  want  of  spirit,  to 
support  the  party  of  the  liianchi  at  Florence,  had  been  the 
main  occasiiui  of  tluj  miseries  that  befell  them.  IJut  the  tes- 
timony of  Fazio  degli  UlMsrti,  who  lived  so  near  the  time  of 
our  author,  seems  almost  decisive  on  this  point.  He  expressly 
speaks  of  tlie  Pope  Celestine  as  l)oing  in  hell.  See  the  Ditta- 
niondo,  L.  iv.  cap.  xxi.  The  usual  interpretation  is  further 
confirmed  in  a  passage  in  Canto  xxvii.  v.  101. 

Petrarch,  while  ho  pass(;s  a  liigh  encomium  on  Celestine 
for  his  abdication  of  the  papal  power,  gives  us  to  understand 
that  there  wcrt.'  others  who  thought  it  a  disgraceful  act.  See 
the  l)e  Vitfi  Sollt.,  b.  ii.  sect.  iii.  c.  18. 

2  Through  the  blear  light.]     IjO  fioco  lume. 
So  Filicaja,  canz.  vi.  st.  12 :  (iual  fioco  lume. 

3  Jin  old  mail.] 

Portitor  has  horrendus  acjuas  et  numina  servat 
Terribili  squalore  Charon,  cui  plurimamento 
Canities  inculta  jacet ;  stant  lumina  flamm^. 

Firg.  JKn.,  lib.  vi.  298. 


/■ 


■    t 


■r    "w 


>■ 


■  \ 


^ 
'h 


64  THE  VISION.  54^77. 

Have  thought  that  death  so  many  had  despoii'd. 

Wheu  some  of  these  I  recognised,  I  saw 
And  knew  the  shade  of  hun,  who  to  base  feaH 
Yielding,  abjured  his  high  estate.     Forthwith 
I  understood,  for  certain,  this  the  tribe 
Of  those  ill  spirits  both  to  God  displeasing 
And  to  his  foes.    These  wretches,  who  ne'er  lived. 
Went  on  in  nakedness,  and  sorely  stung 
By  wasps  and  hornets,  which  bedew'd  their  cheeks 
With  blood,  that,  mix'd  with  tears,  dropp'd  to  their 
And  by  disgustful  worms  was  gather'd  there,     [feet. 

Then  looking  fsulher  onwards,  I  beheld 
A  throng  upon  the  shore  of  a  great  stream : 
Whereat  I  thus :  "  Sir !  grant  me  now  to  know 
Whom  here  we  view,  and  whence  impell'd  they  seem 
So  eager  to  pass  o'er,  as  I  discern 
Through  the  blear  light  ?"  ^     He  thus  to  me  in  few : 
"  This  shalt  thou  know,  soon  as  our  steps  arrive 
Beside  the  woful  tide  of  Acheron." 
Then  with  eyes  downward  cast,  and  fill'd  with  shame, 
Fearing  my  words  offensive  to  his  ear. 
Till  we  had  reach'd  the  river,  I  from  speech 
Abstain'd.     And  lo !  toward  us  in  a  bark 
Comes  on  an  old  man,'  hoary  white  with  eld. 


TVho  to  base  fear 


Yielding,  abjured  his  high  estate. J 

This  is  commonly  understood  of  Celestine  the  Fifth,  who  ab- 
dicated the  papal  power  in  1294.  Venturi  mentions  a  work 
written  by  Innocenzio  Barccllini,  of  the  Celestine  order,  and 
printed  at  Milan  in  1701,  in  which  an  attempt  is  made  to  put 
a  diiierent  interpretation  on  this  passage. 

Lombard!  would  apply  it  to  some  one  of  Dante's  fellow- 
citizens,  who,  refusinjg,  through  avarice  or  want  of  spirit,  to 
support  the  party  of  the  Bianchi  at  Florence,  had  been  the 
main  occasion  of  the  miseries  that  l)efell  them.  But  the  tes- 
timony of  Fazio  degli  Uberti,  who  lived  so  near  the  time  of 
our  author,  seems  almost  decisive  on  this  point.  He  expressly 
speaks  of  the  Pope  Celestine  as  being  in  hell.  See  the  Ditta- 
mondo,  Ia.  iv.  cap.  xxi.  The  usual  interpretation  is  further 
confirmed  in  a  passage  in  Canto  xxvii.  v.  101. 

Petrarch,  while  he  passes  a  high  encomium  on  Cclestiiie 
for  his  al)dic:ition  of  the  ])apal  power,  gives  us  to  understand 
that  there  were  others  wlio  thought  it  a  disgraceful  act.  See 
the  De  Vita  Solit.,  b.  ii.  sect.  iii.  c.  18. 

*  Through  the  blear  light.]    Lo  fioco  lumc. 
So  Filicaja,  canz.  vi.  st.  12:  dual  fioco  liuue. 

*  Jin  old  man.] 

Portitor  has  horrendus  aquas  et  fluniina  servat 
Tcrribili  squalorc  Charon,  cui  plurima  mcnto 
Canities  inculta  jacet ;  stant  lumina  flamm&. 

Firg.  JEn.,  lib.  vi.  298. 


)} 


64  THE  VISION.  54^77. 


1  1 


••»*. ._. 


/,'  ■••»• » --■ 


•  » 


•*•'.■< 


1,  wicked  spiriM  1  hope  no( 


78-103.  flELL,  CjjiTO  HI. 

Crying,  "  Wo  to  you 

KvpT  to  aee  tlie  aky  bgum.     i  uuiiid 

To  Itike  yoa  ta  the  other  sliore  acros, 

Into  etecDal  darkneES,  tliere  to  dwell 

In  fiecce  heat  and  in  ice.'     And  Ihon,  nliu  there 

Standeit,  Uve  spirit ',  get  Ihee  heace,  and  leave 

Thftie  who  ore  dend."     Bui  soon  as  he  beheld 

I  left  them  not,  ■'  By  other  way,"  said  be, 

"  By  other  haven  ehall  tbou  come  to  share. 

Not  by  this  passage  ;  thee  a  nimbler  boat' 

Must  earry."     Then  to  hini  tbuB  spake  my  guide ; 

"Charon!  thyself  torment  not:  eo 'lis  wili'd. 

Where  will  and  power  ore  one ;  ask  thou  no  more.' 

Straightway  in  e3eQCB  fell  the  sha^y  cheeks 
Of  him,  the  boatman  o'er  the  Uvid  lake,' 
Around  wtiose  eyes  glared  wheeling  flames.     Meai 

Those  spirits,  faint  and  naked,  color  changed, 
And  gnaeh'd  their  teeth,  soon  as  the  cruel  words 
They  heard-   God  and  their  psrenla  they  blaaphemei 
The  haman  kind,  the  place,  the  time,  and  seed, 
That  did  eagauder  tliem  and  give  them  birth. 

Then  all  tcgether  Borely  wailmg  drew 
To  the  cursed  slrmid,  that  every  rnan  must  pass 
Who  rears  not  God.     Charon,  demoniac  form. 
With  eya  of  burning  coal,'  coUects  them  aU, 
Beckoning,  and  each,  that  lingers,  with  his  oai 


orttarte  eittem 
From  Ti«Ib  of  m 


SltaJur.  JBsa 
111.93. 
f .]    He  perhajH 


— Totiv  ul  lu^&fl  puddsqUB 


66 


THE  VISION. 


104-iaG. 


Strikes.     As  fall  off  the  light  autumnal  leaves,^ 
One  still  auother  following,  till  the  bough 
Strews  all  its  honors  on  the  earth  beneath ; 
E'en  in  like  manner  Adam's  evil  brood 
Cast  themselves,  one  by  one,  down  from  the  shore, 
Each  at  a  beck,  as  falcon  at  his  call.^ 

Thus  go  they  over  through  the  umber'd  wave  ; 
And  ever  they  on  the  opposing  bank 
Be  lauded,  on  this  side  another  throng 
Still  gathers.   "  Son,"  thus  spake  the  courteous  guide, 
"  Those  who  die  subject  to  the  wrath  of  God 
All  here  together  come  from  every  clime. 
And  to  o'erpass  the  river  are  not  loth : 
For  so  heaven's  justice  goads  them  on,  that  fear 
Is  tum'd  into  desire.     Hence  ne'er  hath  pass'd 
Good  spirit.     If  of  thee  Charon  complain, 
Now  mayst  thou  know  the  import  of  his  words." 

This  said,  the  gloomy  region  trembling  shook 
So  terribly,  that  yet  with  clammy  dews 
Fear  cliills  my  brow.     The  sad  earth  gave  a  blast, 
Tiiat,  lightening,  shot  forth  a  vermilion  flame. 
Which  all  my  senses  conquer'd  quite,  and  I 
Down  dropp'd,  as  one  with  sudden  slumber  seized. 


CANTO  IV. 


./ 


ARGUMENT. 

The  poet,  being  roused  by  a  clap  of  thunder,  and  followmg 
his  guide  onwards,  descends  into  Limbo,  which  is  the  first 
circle  of  Hell,  where  he  finds  the  souls  of  those,  who,  al- 
though they  have  lived  virtuously,  and  have  not  to  suffer 
for  great  sins,  nevertheless,  through  lack  of  baptism,  merit 
not  the  bliss  of  Paradise.  Hence  he  is  led  on  by  Viigil  to 
<lescend  into  the  second  circle. 

Broke  the  deep  slumber  in  my  brain  a  crash 
Of  heavy  thunder,  that  I  shook  myself. 
As  one  by  main  force  roused.     Risen  upright, 

1  As  fall  off  the  light  autumnal  leaves.^ 

Quani  multa  in  silvis  autumni  frigore  prime 

Virg.  ^n.,  lib.  vi.  309. 


Labsa  cadunt  folia.- 


Thick  as  autumnal  leaves,  that  strew  the  brooks 
In  Vallombrosa,  where  th'  Etrurian  shades 
High  over-arch'd  imbower.  Milton,  P.  L.,  b.  i.  304. 

Compare  Apoll.  Rhod.,  lib.  iv.  p.  214. 

2  J3s  falcon  at  his  call.]  This  is  Vellutello's  explanation, 
and  seems  preferable  to  that  commonly  given :  "  as  a  bird 
that  is  enticed  to  the  c^ge  by  the  call  of  another.*' 


t-at.  irELL,  CiNTO  IV.  67 

My  realed  Eyes  I  moved  Hround,  and  seaFch'd, 

WUb  fixod  kciit  tu  know  what  plrii;o  iL  was 

Wtjeroin  I  alood.     For  certaia.  ou  t]iG  brink 

1  fouDd  me  of  Ihe  iBiDenlablB  vale, 

Tbe  dread  abyEs,  tbat  jnias  a  tbundrous  sound' 

or  plainla  innnruerable.     Dark  and  deep, 

And  thick  with  tlonda  o'erapreaii,  miiiH  tye  in  vain 

Eqilored  its  liotloiH,  nor  could  aught  diacern. 

Descend ;"  tbe  bard  began,  all  pale  of  look  ; 
"  \^  '''*  ^^'^'  ""''  *'""'  ^1'^''  follow  nest." 

TTien  I,  hts  alliit'd  hue  pErcoiving,  thua; 
"  How  may  I  speed,  if  tbou  yieldest  [o  draad, 
WhoBtill  art  wont  to  eoinfort  me  in  doubt?" 

He  then :  "  The  anguiBh  of  that  niOB  below 
With  pity  atDLDB  my  cheek,  which  thou  for  fear 
MiMokeat     Li-t  ua  on.    Our  length  of  way 
Urges  to  boito,"     Otiwun],  tliis  euid,  he  moved ; 
And  onteriug  led  mf  with  him,  on  tlie  bouada 
Of  the  litBt  airclo  thttt  stirrouudit  the  aliyaa. 

Here,  as  mine  ear  could  note,  no  plaint  wns  heard 
Eieopt  of  Hghs,  that  made  the  eternal  air 
Tremble,  not  caused  by  tortiiree,  but  from  grief 
Pell  by  those  mullilndea,  niuiy  and  vast, 
Of  men,  women,  ajid  infants.     Then  (o  me 
The  gentle  guide:  "Isquirest  thou  not  what  spirits 
Are  these  which  thou  behohiest?     Ere  thou  para 
Farlher,  1  woidd  thou  know,  tbat  theae  of  sin 
Were  blamelesa  ;  and  if  aught  they  merited. 

The  portiU'  to  thy  faith.     If  they  before 
Tbe  Gospel  lived,  they  served  not  God  aright ; 
And  among  aneh  am  I.     For  Iheae  defecta, 
And  Tot  no  other  evil,  we  are  lost ; 
Only  BO  far  aHIicted,  that  we  live 
Dcnring  without  hope,"'    Sore  grief  aaaail'd 


■1.  liy  Milton.  P.  I 


Toment.  and  Idod  Ini 
ParlaL]    "Folia  dells 

li  u  iha  n 


JmLiaicdt  as  Mr.  Thyer  baa  n 


il  wouM  cu^atH  of  a 


THE  vmoff. 


r1 


My  heart  at  hearing  tJiii,  for  well  I  tnan 
Suspended  ill  that  Limbo  maiiy 
Of  mighty  worth.     "  O  tell  me, 
Tdl  me,  my  master  1"  1  betau,  through  w 
Of  full  aBBonuice  Lu  that  holy  faith 
Which  vanquishes  all  error ;  "  >ay,  did  e' 
Any,  or  through  his  own  or  ot)it>r'B  merit, 
Como  forth  from  thciico,  who  nftcrwarda  was  blemM  i" 
Pieroing  the  secret  purport'  of  my  Bpeoch, 

When  I  beheld  a  puisBant  ono^  arriro 
Among  UB,  with  Tictoiious  trophy  crown'd 
He  forth'  the  shade  of  our  first  parent  draw, 
Abel  his  child,  and  Noah  righteous  man. 
Of  Mosei  lawgiver  for  faith  approved, 
Of  patriarcli  Abraham,  and  David  ting, 
Israel  with  his  sire  and  witli  his  sons. 
Nor  without  Raehel  whom  so  hard  he  won. 
And  others  many  more,  whom  be  to  blisB 
Exalted.    Before  these,  he  thoii  assured. 
No  spirit  of  Imman  kind  was  ever  saved." 

We,  while  he  spake,  ceased  not  our  onward  n 
Still  passing  Ihrougli  the  wood  ;  for  bo  1  name 
Thane  spirits  thick  beset.    Wl  were  not  far 
On  this  side  from  the  Buminit,  when  I  kenn'd 
A  flame,  that  o'er  the  darkeji'd  heiiiisphsro 
Prevailing  shined.     Yet  we  a  little  space 
Were  distant,  not  so  far  but  I  in  port 
DtBcover'd  that  a  tribe  in  honor  high 


n.  HELL,  Cutm  IV.  69 

That  place  pneecffi'd.  "  O  thon,  who  every  art 
And  Bcience  vuliKrat  I  who  are  these,  that  hooBt 
Snch  lionor,  separate  from  all  tlie  rest?" 

Ho  answered :  "  The  renown  of  then-  great  names, 
TTial  eohoea  through  yom'  world  above,  acqnirea 
Favot  in  heaven,  which  holds  them  thus  advanced." 
MeaDtime  a  voico  1  heard :  "  Honor  tlie  bard 
SnUime!'  hie  shade  retuma,  that  left  lis  late  !" 
Ho  sooner  ceased  the  sound,  than  1  beheld 
Four  mighty  spirits  toward  ua  bond  their  aleps, 
Of  semblance  neither  sorrowful  nor  glad.' 

When  IhiLB  my  master  kiml  began :  "  Murk  liim, 
Who  in  bis  right  haud  benis  that  fslchiou  keen, 
llie  other  three  preceding,  as  their  lord. 
This  is  that  Homer,  of  all  bards  aupreroe: 

The  third  is  Naso ;  Lucan  is  the  Inst. 
Because  they  all  that  eppellation  own, 
With  which  the  voice  singly  accosted  mo. 
Honoring  they  greet  me  tliua,  and  well  they  judge." 

So  I  beheld  united  the  bright  school 
Of  him  the  monarch  of  subhmeat  song,' 


»  OfMcvltltTUe  Miiln-  lomnrful  nw  glai-i 

She  nu  lu  sober  ne  lo  i\ai.    cluMctr'i  Dnan. 

•  7H.  ■»*■"*  of  ™M™"I 'W-]    HDincr. 

[lappoara  fkon  a  pasBoee  in  tbeCoDVlio,  that  Ibera  Wai 
BB  l^D  tnniLalloD  of  Hnnier  In  Danlo'B  Uine.  "Sapini 
dsHUOD,  &c."  p.  ao.    "  Ev^ry-  one  inould  know,  that  nolh 


a  elurned  for  blmielf.  i 


hen  la  tlto  Latlo  tranaU- 


Ua  Uun  UuiiiKhl  m  lo  call  blm  la  an  sccouil:  "K|tu  vc 
umKUl  rqili*  in  ijrimli  aon  adeo  tnmen  oblusl  nam  peclo 


70 

That 


When 


THE  VISION. 

>r  the  others  like  on  eagle  b 


l>ajl  Iwid, 


Dkiad 


,  tagelhf 
They  liira'd  to  me,  wilh  snluli 
BeckouLog  me ;  s(  Ute  wbtch  my  master  aiolled 
Nor  was  Ibie  all ;  but  greater  honor  still 
Tiiey  gave  me,  for  they  made  me  of  their  Iriba; 
And  1  was  sixth  amid  bo  leiim'd  a  baud. 

Far  as  the  lumiaoue  beacoa  on  we  pUB'd, 
Speaking  of  matters,  then  befitting  well 
To  speak,  now  filler  left  untold.'     At  foot 
Of  a  magnificent  castle  we  arrived, 
Seven  times  with  lofty  walls  begirt,  and  roUDd 
Defended  by  a  plcaaant  stream.     O'er  this 
Ab  o'er  dry  land  we  paas'd.  Neil,  through  sevM 
I  with  those  saffes  enter'd,  and  we  came 
Into  a  mead  with  lively  verdure  fresh. 

There  dwelt  a  ra.ce,  who  slow  their  eyes  ai 
Majestically  moved,  and  in  their  part 
Bore  eminent  authority :  they  spake 
"  "         ■■■...■  .  hmefol  sweet. 


Wei 


aplac 


Open  and  bright  aiid  lofty,  w 

Stood  manifest  to  view.     Incontinent, 

There  on  llie  greea  enamel'  of  the  plnin 

Were  sliown  me  the  great  spiritfl,  by  whose  nght 


^ 

Rur«.lK  Le  Apl 

Vie  piu  Hen 

«ilu« 

rle,  the  iJ  b 

''"ou'Ji^^ilb.i.'J 

-nBlapborUulta! 

ainoD  In  P0BU7.     J 

ill'd  greea. 

jfiito.,j™4». 

inpn  in  Ihs  mlllle 

■    iritrUn. 

^Ml'^lly'  ''^■1 

sptid  UffbelU..  <o. 

Anccdaiei  or  Fsin 

"nr™-* 

MoB«n*i«,"  uun 

1                          1 

iiB-ns. 


IIELL,  ( 


0  IV, 


By  many,  among  whom  Hiintor  I  knew. 
Aoebinn'  fSom  via,  and  wtlli  hawk's  eye 
Cembt  111!  utm'd,  Slid  by  Camilla  cliere 
Penlboalou.    On  the  other  aida, 
Old  lung  LatinUB  aeuted  by  his  child 
LaTinia,  and  that  Brutus  1  beheld 
Who  Tarquiu  chaaod,  Luoretin,  Calo'a  wif 
Marcia,  with  Julia'  and  Connjiio  there ; 
And  sole  apBtt  retired,  the  Soldan  fiereo.' 
Thenwhena'     ■  ^      -     . 


Ithei 


Sealed  amid  the  philosophic  I 


-Blece^Km»^n.<.u,.«>,ln 

onlali  reett  All.oli,,  ul  do 

"  DmiIiiiiiij  lUaup."  tc. 

OhrUUiuu.  who,  m\oita\  oC  m<. 

»  ftMllily  and  the  omily 

csRled  twftirehls  dead  bodf  u  a 

es.lgn,  plain  p,le,.g,i« 

ketiM,  and  wyHw  alood  anln  11 

«B.  Conqnargr  ol  the  Eait.  of  b 

he  bad  In  his  lUe,  cnnieUi  not  wlui  aun  nny  uild^  more  loan 

U>  ^In.'    A  ilBhl  worthy  (o  gnal  a  kli^,  as  wanted  nglh- 

le^  of  faia  bsItbUdd  In  Cbrlal  Jesni,    He  relEned  alwut 

ttateh  in  the  Triumph  of  Fame,  d.  ii.;  and  by  Borcnccla  In 


pnnd.    Auk 


the  SlnglHlB  wai 


72  THE  VISION.  130-141. 

Him  all  admire,  all  pay  him  reverence  due. 
There  Socrates  and  Plato  both  I  mark'd 
Nearest  to  him  in  rank,  Dcmocritus 
Who  sets  the  world  at  chance,*  Diogenes, 
With  Heraclitus,  and  Empcdocles, 
And  Anaxagoras,  and  Thales  sage, 
Zeno,  and  Dioscorides  well  read 
In  nature's  secret  lore.     Orpheus  I  mark'd 
And  Linus,  Tully  and  moral  Seneca, 
Euclid  and  Ptolemy,  Hippocrates, 
Galcnus,  Aviccn,''  and  him  who  made 
That  commentary  vast,  Averroes.' 


to  be  obeyed  and  trusted  by  the  rest,  as  being  the  one  who 
alone  considers  the  ultimate  end  of  all  the  other  ends.  Thns 
he,  who  exercises  the  occupation  of  a  knight,  onght  to  be 
obeyed  by  the  sword-cutler,  the  bridle-maker,  the  armorer, 
and  by  all  those  trades  which  are  in  order  to  the  occupatioii 
of  a  knight.  And  because  all  human  operations  respect  a 
certain  end,  which  is  that  of  human  life,  to  which  man,  In- 
asmuch as  he  is  man,  is  ordained,  the  master  or  artist,  who 
considers  of  and  teaches  us  that,  ought  chiefly  to  be  obeyed 
and  trusted :  now  this  is  no  other  than  Aristotle  ;  and  he  is 
therefore  the  most  deserving  of  trust  and  obedience." 

1  J)emocritus, 

Who  sets  the  world  at  chance.^ 

Democritus,  who  maintained  the  world  to  have  been  formed 
by  the  fortuitous  concourse  of  atoms. 

3  Avicen.]  See  D'Elcrbelot,  Bibl.  Orient.,  article  Sina.  He 
died  in  1050.    Puici  here  again  imitates  our  poet : 

Aviccnna  quel  che  11  sentimento 

Intese  di  Aristotile  e  i  segreti, 

Averrois  che  fece  11  gran  comento.   Morg.  Mag.^  c.  xiv. 

Chaucer,  in  the  Prologue  to  the  Canterbury  Tales,  makes 
the  Doctour  of  Pliislke  familiar  with 

Avicen, 

Averrois. 

Sguarda  Aviccnna  mio  con  tre  corone, 
Ch'  egli  fii  Prence,  c  dl  scienza  pieno, 
E  util  tanto  air  umane  pcrsone. 

Frczii.  II  Quadrir.f  1.  iv.  cap.  9. 

Fuit  Avicenna  vir  summi  ingenii,  magnus  Philosophus, 
excellens  mcdicu^,  et  summus  apud  suos  Theologus.  Sebas- 
tian Schcffcr,  Introd.  in  Artcm  Medicani,  p.  63,  as  quoted  in 
the  Historical  Observations  on  the  Quadriregio.    Ediz.  1735. 

* Him  who  made 

That  commentary  vast,  Averroes.] 

II  gran  Platone,  e  1*  altro  che  sta  attento 
Mirando  11  cielo,  e  sta  a  lui  a  lato 
Averrois,  che  fjce  il  gran  comento. 

Frezzi.  II  Quadrir.,  1.  iv.  cap.  9« 

Averroes,  called  by  the  Arabians  Roschd,  translated  and 
commented  the  works  of  Aristotle.  According  to  Tlraboflchi 
(Storia  della  Lett.  Ital.,  t  v.  1.  ii.  c.  11.  sect.  4)  he  was  the 


L 


U9-14B. 


HELL.  C*NTO  V 


Of  all  lo  gpeok  at  fall  weie  vain  altempt ; 
For  my  wide  theme  bd  ui^ei,  that  Dfl-timee 
My  words  fall  short  of  what  bechanced.     In  Iv 
The  Bti  BBBociate«  part.     Another  way 
My  aoge  guide  leadi  me,  from  that  air  serene. 
Into  a  climale  ever  vex'd  with  Btornia : 
And  to  a  part  1  come,  where  no  light  sbioea. 


CANTO   V. 

ARGUMENT. 

CnntiiE  inUi  IhB  lecon*  circle  of  Hull,  DbdIb  b1  Ihe  e 
bahSita  Mlnoi  IhB  [nfbraal  JadKe.  t<y  vtumi  h«  is 


■onres  of  mulcm  philaoophlcal  Implely.  The  cillic  quoles 
■ofne  puBBfflt  &ODI  Pptrajcb  (Senil,  I.  v.  ep.  lU.  el  Oper.,  t.  U. 
p.  1143)  (o  BbDW  how  itroflgly  eivh  aonHmeTiLs  provAUfld  la 
lbs  arae  aT  thai  poet,  by  wliom  ihey  wen  held  Id  horror  tni 

tXata  Dbe  who  did  not  know  a  Bvltable  or  Greek,  and 
u  thereftnv  umipelled  to  aval]  hbnaelf  of  Lhe  un&iUl' 


M  ■nKKinuin'  nuM.  bii  liUely 
IXIMdl  on  Hh  HriH  inhjecL 


71  THE  VISION. 

Embracing,  m  mucL  more  of  grief  coatainB, 

Provokiog  bitl«r  moaiiB.     There  Minoe  standi 

Grlimiag  with  ghastly  feature :'  be,  of  nil 

Who  mter,  Hliict  ex.amiuiug  tbe  crimes. 

Gives  Dentence,  and  dismiueB  Ihem  beoeath, 

According  aa  he  foldoth  hiiti  arouncl  i 

For  when  before  him  comes  Ihe  ill-fated  boqI, 

It  all  oDufesae* ;  imd  that  judge  severe 

Of  »in>,  conaiileriug  what  place  iu  hell 

Suits  the  transgiMsi-on,  with  his  tail  so  oft 

Himself  cueircles,  as  degreen  beneath 

He  dDoioa  it  to  descend     Before  liim  stand 

Alway  a  numerouB  throag  ;  tuid  in  his  turn 

Each  one  to  judgment  passing,  speaks,  and  hetUB 

His  fate,  tbence  (iownward  to  his  dwelling  hurl'd.    ■ 

"  O  thou  '.  who  to  this  residene 
Approacbest  V  when  he  saw  me  i 
BUnoa,  relinquishing-  his  dretul  em 
"  Look  how  thou  euter  here ;  bes 
Thou  place  thy  trust ;  let  not  the  entrance  broad 
Deceive  thee  to  tliy  harm."     To  him  my  gok 
"  Wherefore  exclaiiiiest  1     Hinder  uot  bis  wa; 
By  destmy  appointe-d  ;  so  'tis  will'd, 
Where  will  and  power  are  one.    Ash  thon  no 

Now  'gin  the  rueful  WEiilings  to  be  beard- 
Now  am  1  come  wtiero  many  a  plainiug  voici 
Smitcfl  on  mine  ear.     Into  a  place  I  came 
Where  light  was  sileul  all.     Bellowing- there  giM 
A  uoise,  as  of  a  sea  iti  tempest  torn 
By  warrii^  winds.     The  stormy  blast  of  heU 
With  restlees  fuiy  drives  tile  spirits  on, 
Whu-I'd  round  and  dash'd  amain  with  sore  an 
When  tliey  arrive  before  the  ruinous  sweep, 


I  ondentood,  that  to  this  ti 


re  condemn 'd,  in  whom 
Reason  by  lust  is  sway'd.     As  in  large  troope 
And  multitudinous,  when  winter  reigUB, 
The  starlings  on  their  wings  are  home  abnrad ; 
8a  bears  the  tyrannous  gust  those  evil  soub. 
On  this  side  and  on  that,  above,  below, 


45-fiS.  HELL,  Cai«to  V.  75 

It  drives  them :  hope  of  rest  to  solace  them 

Is  none,  nor  e'en  of  milder  pang.     As  cranes,^ 

Chanting  their  dolorous  notes,  traverse  the  sky, 

Stretch'd  out  in  long  array ;  so  I  beheld 

Spirits,  who  came  loud  wailing,  hurried  on 

By  their  dire  doom.     Then  I :  "  Instructor !  who 

Are  these,  by  the  b(Eick  air  so  scourged  7" — "  The  firrt 

'Mong  those,  of  whom  thou  question^st,"  he  replied, 

"O'er  many  tongues  was  empress.     She  in  vice 

Of  luxury  was  so  shameless,  that  she  made 

Liking'  be  lawful  by  promulged  decree, 

To  clear  the  blame  she  had  herself  incurred 

This  is  Semiramis,  of  whom  'tis  writ. 

That  she  succeeded  Ninus  her  espoused  '* 

And  held  the  land,  which  now  the  Soldan  rules. 

The  next  in  amorous  fury  slew  herself. 

And  to  Sicheus'  ashes  broke  her  faith : 

Then  follows  Cleopatra,  lustful  queen." 

There  mark'd  I  Helen,  for  whose  sake  so  long 
The  time  was  fraught  with  evil ;  there  the  great 
Achilles,  who  with  love  fought  to  the  end. 

I  j9«  cranes.]  This  simile  is  imitated  by  Lorenzo  de  Me- 
dici, in  his  Ambra^  a  poem^  first  published  by  Mr.  Roscoe,  in 
the  Appendix  to  his  Life  or  Lorenzo : 

Marking  the  tracts  of  air,  the  clamorous  cranes 
Wheel  their  due  flight  in  varied  ranks  descried ; 
And  each  with  outstretch'd  neck  his  rank  maintains, 
In  marshall'd  order  through  th*  ethereal  void. 
^  Roscoe,  V.  i.  c.  V.  p.  257,  4to.  edit. 

Ck>mpare  Ilomer,  11.,  iii.  3.  Virgil,  JEn.,  1.  x.  264.    Oppian 
Halieut.,  lib.  i.  620.    RucccUai,  Lc  Api,  942,  and  Dante's  Pur- 
gatory, xxiv.  63. 
3  L,iking.\    His  lustes  wore  as  law  in  his  degree. 

Chaucer,  Monke's  Talc.  J^ero. 
>  T%at  she  succeeded  J^inus  her  espoused."] 

Che  succedette  a  Nino  e  fu  sua  sposa. 

M.  Artaud,  in  his  Histoire  de  Dante,  p.  580,  mentions  a 
manuscript  work  called  Attacanti's  Quaflrageslnmle  de  reditu 
peccatoris  ad  Deum,  in  which  the  line  is  thus  cited : 
Che  silver  dette  a  Nino  e  fu  sua  sposa. 

"  Who  suckled  Ninus,  and  was  his  wife." 

This  remarkable  reading  had  been  before  noticed  by  Federici* 
Intomo  ad  alcune  variant!  nel  testo  dclla  Divina  Conmiedia- 
Ed.  Milan.  1836.  See  the  Bibliotcca  Italiana,  torn.  82,  p.  282- 
It  appears  from  the  treatise  Dc  Monarchia,  (1.  ii.)  that  Dante 
derived  his  knowledge  of  Assyrian  history  from  his  favorite 
author  Orosius,  (1.  i.  c.  iv.)  who  relates  that  Semiramis  both 
succeeded  Ninus  through  the  artifice  of  personating  her  son, 
and  that  she  committed  incest  with  her  son  ;  but  as  the  name 
of  her  husband  Ninus  only  is  there  recorded,  and  as  other  his- 
torians call  the  son  Ninia^,  it  is  probalile  that  the  common 
reading  is  right. 


Pomtad  th 


:oN.  M-m^^M 

d  braide,  ^^M 

ae,  and  by  name  ^^M 

belEaved  of  llfG.  ^H 

B  loetructor  name  ' 


W  hen  i  had  hoard  my  sago  loetruc 
Those  daiuoa  and  hnighls  of  antUjus  dayB,  o'eipowei'd 
By  pity,  well-nigh  in  amazo  my  znind 
Wna  lost ;  and  I  bugirn :  "  Bard  '.  willingly 
1  would  address  thoso  two  together  coming, 
Which  seem  so  light  before  Ibe  wind."     Ha  thoB : 
"  Note  thaa,  when  nearer  (hoy  lo  us  approach. 
Then  by  that  love  which  carries  them  along, 
Eotreat ;  and  they  will  come."     Soon  aa  the  wind 
Sway'd  them  tawarda  us,  1  lliits  &amed  my  Bpeeoh: 
"  O  wearied  spirits '.  come,  and  hold  diacoune  | 

With  ua,  if  by  nmo  else  restrain'd."     Aa  doTM  1 

By  fond  desire  in^ted,  on  wide  winga  I 

And  firm,  to  their  awoet  nesl  rfltiiming  boroo,  " 

Cleave  the  air,  wafted  by  their  will  along ; 
Tbw  UHued,  from  that  tnxqi  where  Dido  ranks. 
They,  through  the  ill  air  speeding:  with  such  ferce 
My  cry  prevail'd,  by  strong  ofleotion  urged. 

"  O  gracioufl  creature  and  benign  !  who  go'at 
Visiting,  through  this  element  obscure,' 
Us,  who  the  world  with  bloody  atain  imbrued ; 


If.  ft 


a  &iend,  i 


Since  thou 
Of  what. 


ng  of  all 
uTd  for  t 


ly  peace  1 
evil  plight 


It  pleHBes  thee,  that  will  we  hear,  of  that 
Freely  with  thee  discouree,  while  o'er  the  wi 
Ah  now,  18  mute.     The  laud,'  tliat  gave  me  1 
Is  aituale  on  tlio  coaat,  where  Po  deseenda 
To  rest  in  ocean  witli  hia  sequen 

"  Love,  Ibal  in  gentle  heart  is  quickly  le 

nanU  himself  In  hlsCollvlU):  '*D  pe 
mlisd  of  pnijile  ftud  hlaa^.  )im  tJie  bUck  preVAat-" 
tl  In  IbePrulogae  lo  lbs  Cdjilerbu^  TttleBp  Dortour  of  PJ 
la  sangniiL  and  bi  parie  lie  clad  wu  alia. 
>  The  liaii.\    SaTenna, 

Amor,  ch"  b]  cni  gontll  ratio  b'Hp[ireDdfi. 


HELL,  Canto  V 


It  denial  lakes  {roai 


Canghl  me  witb  plaa 


Aad  held  them  then 


Must  they  at  length  tn  that  ill  pass  hai 

Then  turning,  I  to  them  my  gpeecli 

Aod  thiw  begau :  "Franceaca!'  ynur  i 

Even  to  leure  my  grief  aad  pity  moToa. 


79  TJIE  VISION. 

But  Ull  me  ;  in  the  time  of  your  BWeet 
By  what,  and  how  Love  granted,  thut  re 
Your  yet  mi-certain  wiahas'"  She  repfiei 
"  No  greatoc  grief  than  to  remember  dayi 
Of  joy,  when  misery  la  at  huiid.'  Iltat  k 
Thy  leam'd  instructor.  Yet  so  eaeerty 
If  thou  art  thenl  to  know  the  primal  root, 
From  whence  our  love  gnt  being,  I  will  d 
As  one,  who  wcepa  and  teiln  hb  tale.  Oi 
For  ont  delight  we  rend  of  Luicelal/ 
How  him  love  thrall'd.  Aloae  we  n 
Suspicion  near  us.  Oft-limee  by  tbo 
Our  eyes  were  drawn  together,  and  ' 
Fled  from  our  olter'd  cheek.  But  a' 
Aloue  we  fell.     When  of  that  smile 


cartfi  eiDDioii  di  Boeid 
lOf  glidlrlemnd: 


[r.  Leigh  IfanL  bsa  e: 


ill "  Bluty  oTRiniliil." 


LD  iQ  havo  Iwea  Ln  pmpeiilfl, 
LL  renwmbiT  when  It  pauld  II 

son  hs  dogUa  11  mlaero  magglDre, 


le  fiirlDiffi  Infell, 


aLmoDl  geB^ 


The  orlgloal,  pcthaps,  w 

thai  BDgBged  the  allenlloD  gf  D&nU,  lu  lie  bimMll 
<  Ijinedat.]  One  of  Ibe  KnigliU  of  Ihe  Boud4 
The  m^iitnl  Bllu^du^i 
UlE  Fiuvdlie.  CanUi  ivl. 

Queslu  quel  pnnlo  n.  chs  lol  ml  -ri 


:Lr*4wniT 


Tho  ™ 


ualy  kiaa'd 


1  in  \ovbt  IboD  he,  who  iib'er 
Fram  nie  fliiikll  abpiLraU^,  at  once  my  lips 
All  trembliug  ki^d.     Tho  book  Euid  writpr  bulli 
Were  love's  purvpyoTS.     In  its  lealea  that  day 
We  read  no  more.'"     WhUo  thus  ooe  apirit  apake, 
The  other  woil'd  bo  sorely,  that  heart^truck 

From  death,  and  like  a  corae  feU  to  the  ground.' 


plB«A«iiU  Odd  of  EheflD,  who  on  earth  wnB  Dotufld  Ctb«^ 
inr«n'lk  tho  dlvUlou  with  which  llorence  i>  Dbunt  la  Ik) 
diilmeled.    Dante  prcjpoHB  a  iiDeilLon  to  hi«  pilde.  who 
■DLVdb  tl  i  atiU  thpy  proceod  (owuvls  die  fuurttl  cltcle. 
Mr  aenae  reviviog,'  that  erewhjie  had  drooped 
With  pity  [or  the  kiadreil  Bhadps,  whence  grief 
"'  rcame  me  wholly,  atraJght  around  I  see 

V  torments,  new  tormented  aoula,  which  way 
'er  t  move,  or  turn,  or  bend  my  sight. 
Jie  third  eircle  I  arrive,  of  ahowoia 
Cettaeleaa,  accuraed,  heavy  and  (raid,  nnohanged 
Fot  ever,  both  in  kind  and  Id  degree- 
Luge  hail,  dueolor'd  water,  sleety  Saw 


yAdn. 


80  THE 

Tliraiigh  the  dim  midnight  air  BtreBm'd  down  amain 

ISIuuli  aii  tbe  inod  whtreon  that  Icmpeat  fell. 

Cerberus,  clue!  motiRtpr,  fierce  and  Mrange, 
Tlirougli  hia  wide  threefold  throBl,  bariia  as  a  dog 
Over  Iha  moltitnde  immerBed  beneatb. 
Hia  cyea  g-lare  crimaon,  black  hia  DncLaona  b«Brd, 
Hia  bell;  large,  and  clsw'd  the  banda,  with  which 
He  lean  the  spirits,  flays  Ibem,  and  tbeu-  limba 
Piecemeal  disparla.     Howling  there  apiead,  as  cdib, 
Under  tbe  rainy  deluge,  with  one  aide 
Tbo  other  acreening,  oft  they  roll  them  re       ' 
A  wrclcbod,  godlesB  crew.     When  that  g 
Descried  ua,  eavnge  Cerbema,  he  oped 
His  jawB,  and  the  fangs  abow'd  ub  ;  not  > 
Of  him  but  trembled.     Then  my  guide,  hia  pi 
Expanding  on  tbe  grouDd,  thence  lill'd  with  o 
Raised  them,  and  cast  it  ui  hia  lav 
E'eu  as  a  dog,  that  yelling  bays  U 
Hia  kei'per,  when  Ihe  morBel  comes,  lets  fall 
Hie  fury,  beut  aloue  with  eager  bnxte 
'I'o  swallow  it ;  so  dropp'd  llie  loatlisome  choii 
Of  demon  Cerberus,  who  tliuudering  eluns 
Tbe  spirits,  that  lliey  for  dealiieHa  wish  in 

We,  o'er  the  sliadea  thrown  prostrate  by  the  bnmt 
Of  the  heavy  IcmpoBl  passing,  Bet  our  feet 
Upon  their  cmptinesB,  that  substance  Beem'd. 

Tliey  nil  along  the  earth  extended  lay, 
Save  one,  that  andden  raised  hiniaelf  la  sit. 
Soon  as  that  way  he  saw  us  pass.     '■  O  Ihou  !" 
He  cried,  "  who  through  the  infernal  shades  art  led, 
Own,  if  agaui  thou  know'sl  me.     Thou  wast  Immed 

Or  e'er  my  frame  was  broken."     I  repUed  :  j 

"  The  anguish  thou  endureat  perchance  bo  taJte^J 
Tliy  form  &am  '  ■'    "  '■  ^ 

As  if  I  saw  the. 


Umb  ,^H 
iapalnj^H 
thoai^^H 

:heeka^^| 


™.]    J 


I 


ipeoiE,  Milton,  sad  Conpei,  who  well  aaderglood  that 


^ 


f 


*5-73.  HELL,  Caoto  VI.  i 

Mb  wLo  thou  art,  that  in  b  place  bo  sad 
Art  eet,  and  in  such  tormcnl,  tlmt  aJthough 
Other  bo  greater,  none  diEgustelh  more." 
He  thus  in  anawfr  to  my  words  rejcnn'd : 
"  Thy  city,  hesp'd  willi  enyy  to  the  brim, 
Aye,  that  the  measure  overflawB  its  bounda, 
Held  me  in  brighter  days.     Ye  atiitna 
Were  wont  la  name  me  Clacco.'     For  the  aiu 
0(  ^ultony,  damned  vice,  beneath  this  rain, 
E'en  aa  tboQ  eeeat,  I  wHh  Tallgue  am  worn ; 
Nor  I  Bolo  spiril  in  Ihis  wo ;  all  these 
Haye  by  like  crime  incnrr'd  like  [mnlBhmenl." 

No  more  he  said,  and  I  my  apeech  i^smned: 
"  Ciuco !  thy  dire  aJHiction  grievcB  me  much. 
Even  to  teara.     But  tell  me,  if  thou  know'sl, 
What  aball  at  length  befall  the  citizeos 
Of  the  divided  city  f  wbathcr  any 
JnBt  one  inhabit  there:  and  tell  the  cauao. 
Whence  janing;  Discord  both  adsailM  it  thua.^^ 

Be  then :  "  Aflsr  long  striTuig  they  will  come 
Tr>  blood ;  and  the  wild  party  from  the  wooda^ 
Will  chase  the  other*  with  much  injury  forth. 
Tlieo  it  bahoovea  that  thiB  must  fall'  within 
Three  aolar  circles ;'  and  the  other  riso 
By  borrow'd  force  of  one,  who  under  Bhore 
Now  rests.'     It  shall  a  long  space  hold  aloof 
ill  forehoad,  keejihig  under  heavy  weight 
The  other  oppreaa'd,  indignant  at  the  load. 
And  grieving  Borc.     The  just  are  two  in  nimiber,' 


la  iBllAn,  fliniiyiiiKa  ^.    The  rent  r 

cin'9  Derapipinn,  Cloni.  Ii.  Nov.  8. 
•  Tac  diridid  tily,|    The  dly  of  Flura 

Ij  paj-twfnim  rAe  modi ' 

.,  Van  do-  Cerehl,  who 

M  itia  dly  fnm  Aeons,  SDd  Ihi 


93  THE  VISION.  1 

But  they  noglactod.    Avericei  eiivy,  pride," 

Tlirpe  fata)  sparkB,  bavo  att  the  heurlB  of  all 

On  lire."     Here  ceased  (ho  lameutuble  aouud  ; 

Aail  I  continued  thus:  "  Still  would  I  leiim 

More  from  thee,  farther  parley  still  entreat. 

Of  Fttrinnta  and  Tegghiaio'  gay. 

They  who  so  well  deserved ;  of  Giacopo,' 

Arriga,  MoBca,*  and  tbe  rest,  who  beat 

Their  mioda  dd  working  good.     Oh !  toll  mo  wb 

They  bide,  and  to  their  knowledge  let  me  come. 

For  I  nu]  press'd  with  keen  defdre  to  hear 

If  heavoo'a  sweet  cup,  or  poisouous  drug  of  hell. 

Be  to  their  lip  lUBign'd."     He  Boawer'd  straight . 

"  Tlii'se  are  yet  blacker  spirits.     Vorinos  oi ' 

Have  sunk  them  deeper  in  the  dark  abyss. 

If  Uiou  BO  for  desceudcst,  thou  mayM  see  tbem. 

But  to  the  pleasant  world,  when  ('     "  "  -  — '-- 

Of  me  inake  tuentioa,  I  entreat  t 

No  more  1  tell  tbee,  answer  thee  no  more." 

This  Buid,  his  fixed  eyes  be  tum'd  askance, 
A  little  eyed  me,  then  bent  dawn  hiB  head. 
And  'midst  his  bUnd  companiDUS  with  it  (elL 

When  thus  my  guide :  "  No  more  his  bed  he  li 


'here  cnntrndicla;  for,  Lq  (he  Focsalocy, 
riananesa  of  not  being  eikGinpleil  froni  opi 
uee  Ikta]  iparhs,  which  hiul  set  (be  bta 

ad  Giavaniii  Veai^nuKi.  ndduda^  Ihe 

BnailDii,  and  bountiful  In  alni9Bl¥liie,  nltmmEb  lnynHD. 
'be  one  wu  asmnl  Barduuio.  Had  <ru  baited  In  B.  BoMts. 
litis  pLacB  of  Ihe  Frati  Bomiuuii:  Ihs  oiher,  named  Gft^ 
annl  da  TinpicDano,  wru  buiied  Id  a.  Pietni  Une^Difl.  AnA 
y  each,  God  abowed  open  muscles,  In  benlUi^  Ua  tiA  «Hl 


iDFJdla.  snperbU  od  avwiEln 
Vcdea  mDlllpUcar  Da  mki  flgliuoll. 
fbiia  degli  vierU,  DilUmanda,  lib. 
JS"*°rt""""^*'*""°''   ^™'^"'''"'' 

Tigt.M-u^}  OfArrign,  wholiiBliH.y( 
I  have  been  of  Iho  nnhle  frailly  of  Ihe  n 


I 

trtt.       H 


HELL,  Canto  Vll.  83 

Ers  the  laet  angel-trumpeC  blow.    Tho  Fowor 
Advene  to  these  shall  tlien  in  glory  como, 
Each  one  forthwith  Co  tils  sod  tomb  repair, 
Resume'  his  flexbly  veatiire  nnd  hia  rorm, 
And  liFsr  ths  eternal  doom  re-echoing  retid 
The  vault."    Ha  pasa'd  we  tbraogh  that  luixlure  TquI 
Of  t^irita  &tid  mm,  with  Caidj  steps;  meanwhile 
Toacliidg,"  though  Hiigbtly.  od  the  lire  to  come. 
For  thus  I  queBtion'd :  •'  Shall  these  tortnres,  ea  \ 
When  tho  great  sentence  paasea,  be  increased, 
Or  mitigated,  or  ae  now  severe  1" 

He  then  :  "  Consult  thy  knowledge  f  that  decides. 
That.  BB  each  thing  to  more  perfection  grows, 
It  feela  more  sensibly  both  good  Biid  paiiu 
Though  ne'er  to  trne  perfection  may  arrive 
This  race  iiocursed,  yet  nearer  then,  tlion  now, 
They  shall  approach  it,"    Cotnpuuslng  (but  puth, 
Circuitous  we  jouroey'd ;  aud  discourse. 
Much  mora  Ihau  I  relate,  between  us  psss'd : 
Till  at  the  pinnt,  whence  the  steps  led  below. 
Arrived,  there  Plutna,  the  great  foe,  we  found. 


CANTO    VIL 


0H1  we[|bli  uKiDEl  each  oltavi  wUh  luuliul  ii|j 
Fnjm  hence  Vttga  lakei  occualuo  lo  >liow  han 
noda  thm  ue  coolmiUed  lolo  the  chaiiEa  of  Fnn 
Bua  moTeB  our  nuihor  u  Inqutio  whcil  bolDg  ilm 

ga  down  inio  Iha  DRh  cjnie.  ?vheiB  Ihey  Aad  Uic 
and  gloomy  locmenieO  In  the  Btfglnn  lafce.  Hv 
K  nmcau  iDQiid  Kreat  pari  uribli  laka,  Ihey  cume 

■fc]  ^  Jmliiilea  by  Freml ; 

— - - .  „  ,  boon  ecin  siilenilori 

Fa  la,  linik  della  dlvtu  pmia. 

tf.)  ConvenlnE,  (hongh  in  n  aliebl  and  i 


■* 


64 


THE  VISION. 


"An  me!  O  Satan!  Satan !'"  lond  Biclaim'd 
Plutue.  m  accent  hoarse  of  wild  alanu : 
And  thb  kiml  sage,  whom  na  event  surprised^ 
To  comfort  loo  thus  epake :  "  Lt-t  not  Ihy  fear 
Harm  thee,  for  power  in  him,  be  sure,  a  uon 
To  hinder  down  this  rock  thy  safe  deaoent" 
Then  to  IhHt  awohi  lip  turning,  "  Peace !"  he 


Prey,  and  cooHiune  Uee!    Tlirougb  the  darl 
Not  without  cauBe,  he  passes,    .ju  tie  wUl'd 
On  high,  there  wliere  tiio  great  Archangol  pour'd 
Heaven's  vengeance  on  the  lint  adulterer  prDud.'" 

Ab  sails,  full  sprend  und  bellying  with  the  wind, 
Drop  suddenly  colliipaed,  if  the  mast  epUt ; 
So  Ui  the  ground  down  dropped  the  cruel  (lend. 

Thus  wo,  descending  to  the  fourth  Hleep  ledge, 
Gain'd  on  the  dismal  shore,  that  all  the  wo 
Hems  In  of  all  the  universe.    Ahme' 
Almighty  Justice  ',  in  what  store  thoa  beap'st'       . 
New  pains,  new  troubles,  as  I  here  beheld.  J 


I 

cruij^H 


'MiMll    OSaWn;  *ri™jj 

■ 

ape  Salao,  aleppe. 

ter  or,j^,tbBs 

donoIgiToa 

au>  Cellini,  iratulaled 

*i.!;„"Ka 

where  ba  menllapi 

(an  /  a/In.  Boii  I  In  Ihe  PontB  of  joi- 
ed  whnt  iSmiB  leW.  when  he  wllh 

lleealpBri..    IrecoUcr 

hiB  mutu  Vlijit  enlered  Ihe  bsWi  of  bell : 

«  Dante,  and 

dgelberhi  Fmnce,  an 

dvUledFuU 

wilh  wrHeuliif  alienlloi 

where  iba  ronrl  of  huUce  iniT  b* 
ce  11  is  that  Dsnle,  who  was  flke- 

e  French,  made  ose 

rthaieipns- 

lion;  and  1  have  often 

leen  .utpdwd  tbm  11 

derHoDdlnlhnlHMe." 

•  7AiJ!ri(  e^nJlcrsr  muf.]    Salan.    The  wotd  "Ibmla- 

ll™,"ot  "ndnllery,"  ■■ 

tmp.>,"  hi  ben.  used 

fiw  a  revoU  of 

thenflbclionafiomGod, 

inwhlehi.li 

often  Kjipllecl  In  errlptare.    Bol  MobU.  foil 

wing  Snul-a 

;*j^L°^^X'Ci^ 

■uppones  ">lraiio"Io 
Ull  nud  In  Ibe  Flea 

rf'sE 

for-aflocki-heep, 

and  sniweilng  to 

French.    In  that  case.  ' 

mperto  slmpo"  won  d  rignllV  "Ihe 

mop  of  rebel  nagel.  w^ho  linnod  Ihrough  pride 

•fineJatiiwrsWniftMp'H.J  Somenndenlejia-thlMlBi." 

n  tmsBlne,"  a.  "who  can  a«i«thB 

a»°3ient3  "tt"  I  h 

»h™  words. 

ai«,tnEli>.&laadimlli 

CO  ha™  been  mlsm* 

B  by  Lomhai- 
ceoghe;  qnnid 

nmuln,  ed  Insleme  n 

mHrappllcU.- 

_J 

!»-«.  HELL,  Canto  VIL  85 

Wlierefoie  dolh  fault  of  ours  briEg  ub  to  this  ( 

E'en  OB  a  billow,'  on  Charybdia  riaing, 
Against  rnoouiiler'd  Wllow  <loHhing  bteoia  ; 
Such  B  the  dance  this  wretched  racB  muat  lead, 

Fcom  one  side  and  the  other,  with  loud  voice. 
Both  roli'd  on  weighta.  by  main  force  of  their  breaata, 
Then  amolo  together,  and  each  one  forthwith 
Koll'd  them  back  voluble,  (uming  again  ; 
EHlumidg  these,  "  Why  holdeat  tliou  bo  f»8t  7" 
Thorn  answering,  "  And  why  eaateat  thou  awuy !" 
So,  still  repoitting  their  despiteful  song. 
They  to  the  oppoaite  point,  on  either  hand, 
TraTerwd  Iho  horrid  circle  ;  then  arrived. 
Both  tum'd  them  round,  and  through  (he  middlB  apace 
Cooflicting  met  ugam.     At  sight  whereof 
1,  Btung  with  grief,  Ihua  apako  :  "  O  say,  my  guide ! 
What  race  is  this.  Were  these,  whose  heads  are  ihom. 
On  our  loft  hand,  all  separate  to  the  churchf' 

He  straight  replied:  "  In  their  first  life,  these  all 
In  mind  were  so  distorted,  that  they  made, 
Accordmg  lo  due  measure,  of  their  wealth 
No  Dse.     This  clearly  from  their  words  collect. 
Which  they  howl  forth,  at  each  cxtrcmily 
Airiving  of  the  circle,  where  their  crime 
Contrary  ia  kind  diapaila  them.     To  the  church 
Wem  Kparate  those,  that  with  no  hair;  cowla 
Are  crown'd,  both  Popes  and  Cardinals,'  o'ei  whom 
Avarice  dominion  abeolute  malnlaina." 

I  Uien :  "  'Mid  such  as  these  some  needs  must  be, 
Whom  I  shall  recognise,  thai  with  the  blot 
Of  these  fool  sina  were  stam'd."    tie  anawering  thus: 


"Tarn  thought  coucei 
Which  made  them  vUo 

eat  tho 
before. 

.     That  ign 
now  makes  th 

ble  life, 
em  dark. 

1  J7o«.W/J.B.l 

As  when  Iwo  blllowi  In  llu?  Irish  iuwnite!, 

Wlthmutng  rafle,  and  dwhlng  on  hU  tiiet. 
Thai  mieth  »11  aiB  <»  »llh  ftani.  divides 
TUB  douMfiil  tomnl  inu>  dlvgn  wayes. 

Sp™«-,  F.  Q..  b.  W.  c 
iPt^indCy^intl..]    Artoilo  hiving  ponon 

1.  n.4^ 

liedAva- 

si'S'x.z 

iLCiudIn 

acMTIa, 

■DIE  VIsrON. 


1 


And  to  nil  knowledge  indbceniible. 
For  ever  they  shall  meet  in  this  rude  shook 
These  from  the  tomb  with  elenehed  grasp  ehajl    __ 
Those  with  cloee-Bhiiven  locks.     That  ill  Ihe^  gavB, 
And  ill  (hoy  kept,  hath  of  the  beauteous  world 
D(^prived,  and  set  them  at  this  strife,  which  noedi 
No  labor-d  phrase  erf  mine  to  set  it  off. 
Now  may^  thou  see,  my  son  !  how  brief,  how  T 
The  goods  committed  into  Fortnno'a  hands. 
For  which  the  human  race  keep  auob  a  cml ! 
Not  all  the  gvid'  that  is  benealh  the  mooQi 
Or  ever  hath  been,  of  Ihese  toil-worn  souls 
Might  purchase  rest  for  one."     I  thus  rejoined; 
"  My  guide '.  of  thee  this  also  would  I  learn 
This  Fortnne,  that  thou  speak'st  of,  what  it 
Whoee  taloDB  grasp  the  blefflings  of  the  worid." 
"    "  *^  O  beings  blinds  what  igoorajice 

Now  my  judgment  hear  a]  '  * 

Ho,  wlioee  transcend     ■      ■   '      " 
The  hesveuB  creating,  gave  them  rating  powers    1 
To  guide  them  ;  so  that  each  part'  shines  to  i 
Their  light  in  equal  distribution  pour'd. 
By  similar  appointment  he  ordaiii'd. 
Over  the  world's  bright  UimgeH  to  rule, 
Superiutendence  of  a  guiding  hand 
And  general  minister,  which,  at  due  time. 
May  change  the  empty  vantages  of  life 
From  race  to  race,  from  one  to  other's  blood, 
Beyond  prevention  ■  ' 
Wherefore  one  nation  rises  into  sway, 
Another  languishes,  e'en  as  her  will 


»-in.  HELL,  Ctvro  VII.  87 

Jui%eB,  and  carries  on  her  reign,  as  theiiB 

The  other  povem  divine.    Her  changes  know 

Nona  intermiiBion ;  by  iieeeHity' 

She  is  made  swift,  wi  frequent  eonie  who  claim 

SuccsHion  in  her  favors.    This  is  nhe. 

So  eieoraled  e'en  by  thoae  wlioxe  debt 

To  her  is  rsther  praise  :  Ibey  wrongfully 

With  blame  requite  her,  and  with  evil  word ; 

But  she  is  blessed,  and  for  that  leclta  not : 

Amidst  the  olher  pritiial  b«i>igB  glad, 

Rolls  on  her  sphere,  and  iti  her  bliita  exultu. 

Now  on  our  way  pa«  we,  to  heavier  wo 

Descending:  for  each  star'  w  falling  now. 

That  mounled  at  our  entrance,  and  fortnda 

Too  long  our  tarrying."     We  Ihe  circle  croee'd 

To  the  next  steep,  arriving  at  a  well. 

That  boiUng  pours  itself  down  to  a  foss 

Sluiced  from  its  source.    Far  murkier  was  the  wave 

Than  sablest  gram ;  and  we  in  company 

Of  the  inky  waters,  joume yiug  by  their  side, 

Enler'd,  though  by  a  different  track,'  beneath. 

Into  a  lake,  the  Sly^an  named,  enpaiids 

The  dismal  elream,  when  it  halli  reach'd  the  foot 

or  the  gray  wither'd  cll&    Intent  I  stood 

To  gale,  anil  in  the  mKiiah  sunk  descried 

A  miiy  tribe,  all  naked,  and  with  looks 

Betokeoing  rage.     They  with  their  hands  alone 

Btnick  uot,  but  with  the  head,  the  breast,  the  feet. 

Catting  each  other  jriecemeal  with  their  fangs. 


THE  VISION. 


leoye 


tells  lb 


'  la  the  awGflt  air  made  gladfiame  by  tho  BUD, 

■  Canying  a  fool  and  laiy  mist  within : 

■  Now  in  those  murky  aattlinp  are  we  tuid." 

Such  dolorous  strain  Ihey  gurglo  in  their  thiOBts,    , 


Thus 


!,  a  segment  widely  siretch'd 
e  who  gulpM  its  muddy 


CANTO   VIII, 

AEGUMEHT.  -^,— 

A  tigati  llBVJDE  been   IDHdc  frniii  the  umec,  Phlegyu,  1kK>  .,■ 
ftnyman  of  jtie  IbIib,  speedily- cTO§Hia  It,  uid  conveys  TU- * 
^L  BDd  DajilB  to  the  other  Bide.    On  ibelr  pauBge,  ihsy 
meEL  w^th  nuppn  ArgentL,  wbnae  Airy  una  mrmeiit  an 

Ernnce  whefeiu  ia  dBoled,  and  Uie  pofikLB  etus  ' 

them  liy  many  Demona- 
Mt  theme  puiBumg,'  I  relnto,  that  ere 
We  reaeh'd  the  lofty  turret's  base,  our  eyes 
Its  height  BHcanded,  where  wo  mark'd  uphi 
Two  cressets,  aud  Bjiother  saw  jiom  far 


■  jMji  iJUmi  pmriuin/r-i    II  is  relaiBd  liy 


le  prophecy  of  daecu  in 


labelln  itnriB  rlplglisido. 


-J 


The  Bjo  could  CBlch  ita  bpam.     1,  turning  round 
To  the  deep  Hoiirce  of  kaowledge,  thuB  inquirod: 
"Sbj  wliot  tlib  raeima  ;  and  what  thut  other  light 
In  answer  set :  what  ageney  doth  this  V 

"  There  op  the  filthy  waters,"  he  repliod, 
"  E'en  now  what  neit  awuite  ua  mayst  thou  see, 
If  the  morah-gendBr'd  fog  conceal  it  not." 

Never  was  arrow  from  the  cord  dismissed, 
Thai  ran  Us  way  so  nimbly  through  the  air, 
As  B  small  bark,  tliat  through  the  wares  I  spied 
Toward  lu  conung,  under  the  sole  sway 
Of  one  that  ferned  it,  who  cried  uloud :  [^^'' 

"Art  Ihou  orrved,  fell  apmtl"— '■  Phlogyaa,  Phle- 
Tliis  lime  thou  crieal  in  raiu,"  my  lord  replied  ; 
"  No  longer  shalt  Ihou  have  na,  but  while  o'er 
The  slimy  pool  we  pass."     Afl  one  who  hears 
Of  some  great  wrong  he  halb  suatain'd,  whereat 
Inly  he  pines  ;  so  Pblegyas  inly  pined 
In  his  fierce  Ire.     My  guide,  descending,  stepp'd 
Into  the  skill*,  and  bade  me  enter  next. 
Close  at  his  side  ;  nor,  till  my  entrance,  seem'd 
The  veael  freighted.     Soon  as  both  embark'd. 
Catling  the  waves,  goee  on  the  ancient  prow. 
Hare  deeply  than  with  others  it  is  wont. 

WhQe  we  our  coiine'  o'er  the  dead  channel  held. 
One  dtench'd  in  mire  beforv  me  came,  and  said : 
"Who  art  thou,  that  thus  comest  ere  thine  hoar)" 

I  anawor'd :  "  Though  I  como,  I  tarry  not ; 
But  who  art  thou,  that  ait  become  so  fouH" 

"  Oike.  aa  thou  soest,  who  mourn :"   ho  straight 

To  which  I  tJiua :  "  In  mourning  and  in  wo, 
Cnnt  qiirit '.  tarry  tliou.     I  know  thee  well, 
E'en  tbu<  in  filth  disguised."  Then  stretch'd  he  forth 
Hand*  to  the  bark  ;  whereor  my  teacher  sage 
Aware,  thrusting  him  back  ;  "  Away  I  dawn  thera 
To  the  other  dogs !"  then,  with  his  arms  my  neck 
Encintlmg,  kiss'd  my  cheek ,  and  spake  :  <>  O  sodI, 
Jmtly  dlidainful '.  blest  was  she  in  whom 


90 


THE  VISION. 


For  arroganue  iioleii :  to  his  memory 

No  Timie  lends  its  liatrfi  ;  even  bo 

Here  is  bin  ^ndow  fuiiuia.    There  abore. 

How  many  now  hold  tliemBelves  mighty  kings, 

Wlio  here  like  swiiiB  shall  wallow  ir  ■■--  -'- 

Leaving  behind  them  horrible  diapr] 

I  then  :  "  MaMer '.  him  fsiu  would  I  behold 
Whelm'd  in  these  dregn,  before  we  quit  tho  lako." 

He  IhuB :  ■'  Or  ever  to  thy  view  Iho  shore 
Be  o^r'd,  BUlJBlied  shall  be  that  wish, 
Which  well  deserves  completion."    Scarce  his  ymds 

Were  ended,  when  I  saw  the  miry  tribes  '  

^el  on  him  with  such  violence,  that  yet 
For  thai  render  I  thanks  to  God,  and  plake. 
•'  To  Filippo  Argenti !""  cried  they  all : 
And  on  himself  the  moody  Florentine 
Tum'd  his  avenging  fanp.    Him  here  we  lei 
Nor  apeak  I  of  him  more.    But  on  mine  ear 
Sudden  a  sound  of  lamentation  smote, 
Whereat  mine  eye  unban'd  I  sent  ahnmd. 

And  tbuH  the  good  instructor  ;  "  Now,  my 
Draws  near  the  city,  that  of  Din  is  nanied,* 
With  its  grave  denizens,  a  mighty  thraag." 

I  thus :  '■  The  minarets  already,  Sir ! 
There,  certea,  in  the  valley  I  descry, 
Gleanung  vermilion,  sa  if  they  from  lire 
Had  issued."     He  replied  ;  "  Eternal  fire. 
That  inward  bums,  ^ona  them  with  ruddy  flan 
Illumed  ;  as  b  (his  nether  hell  thou  seeat." 

Wo  came  within  the  fosses  deep,  (hat  m 
This  region  comfortless.     The  walls  appear'd 
As  thoy  were  framed  of  iron.     Wa  had  made 
Wide  circuit,  ere  a  place  we  reach'd,  where  loo 
The  mariner  cried  vehement :  "  Go  forth ; 
The  entrance  ia  here."    Upon  the  gates  I  spied 


I 


laikHblH  for  iKe  Inrfo  praponloru  and  ettraonllnBry  vigor  al 

y  orya  [cmper."     Dn^in-.  g.  l!f.  n.8. 
■   Ttrt/tf,  !*flCr;/Z>i>  vsMnmHl.l    So  ArioBlo.    Oit.Par^ 


m-iao.  HELL,  CiNTD  VOL  01 

Mnra  than  a  Ihaiisund,  who  of  old  from  iioaion 
Wnro   sbowei'd.'      With  ireful  gi'stiircs,   "  Wlia    ib 
this,"  [through 

They   cried,  "that,  without   doalh   finit   roil,  goes 
The  regioDH  of  the  dead  1"     My  sapient  guidu 
Made  Higa  that  ho  for  aecret  pariey  wish'd  ; 
Whereat  their  angry  acora  abaliug,  (Iiub 
They  spake ;  "  Come  thou  alone  ;  aud  lei  him  go. 
Who  hath  so  hardily  ont«r'd  this  reaiin. 
Alone  retuTti  he  by  his  witlesa  way  ; 
If  well  he  knew  It,  let  him  prove.    For  thee, 
Here  abalt  thou  tarry,  who  through  clime  co  dark 
Haal  been  his  eacorl."     Now  bethink  thee,  reader! 
What  clieer  was  mine  at  sound  of  those  cuist  words. 
I  did  believe  1  never  should  retuia. 

Security  haat  render'd  me,  aad  drawn 
From  peril  deep,  whereto  I  stood  eiposed, 
Desert  mo  not,"  I  cried,  "  in  this  extramD. 
And,  if  our  onward  goiug  be  deuied, 
Together  trace  we  back  our  steps  with  speed." 

Hy  liege,  who  tliilhei  had  conductetl  me. 
Replied  ;  "  Fear  not ;  for  of  our  passage  none 
Hath  power  to  disappoint  UB,  by  such  liigh 
Aothocity  permitted.    Bui  do  thou 
Expect  me  here  ;  meanwhile,  thy  wearied  spirit 
Comfort,  and  feed  with  kindly  hope,  asaored 
1  will  not  leave  thee  in  this  lower  world." 

This  said,  departs  the  sire  benevotsut, 
And  quits  mc.     Hesitatmg  I  remain 
At  war,  'twiit  will  and  noil  not,'  in  ray  thoughts. 


93 


THE  VISION. 


llfrrliS^ 


I  could  nol  hear  wbal  tenaii  hs  offer'd  them, 

Bill  they  conferr'd  not  long,  for  all  at  onea 

Pellmell'  niEili'd  back  wilhiu.   Closed  won  the  ^ttd. 

By  tlioee  our  adveraaries,  on  the  breast 

Of  my  liege  lord  ;  -excluded,  he  retutu'd 

To  me  with  tanly  etepe.     Upon  the  ground 

Hie  eyea  were  benl,  and  fh>m  his  brow  ersEod 

All  confidence,  wliile  thia  in  sighs  he  spake  : 

'■  Who  hath  denied  me  these  abodes  of  wo 7" 

Then  thus  lo  me  ;  "  Thai  I  am  aager'd,  think 

No  ^und  of  terroT :  in  this  trial  I 

Shal)  vuiqutsh,  use  what  arts  they  may  within 

For  hind'rance.     This  their  insolence,  not  i 

Erewhile  at  gate  less  aeoFBt  they  diaplay'd. 

Which  still  is  without  bolt  \  Jipon  its  arch 

Thou  saw'at  the  deadly  semll :  and  even  n< 

Oil  this  side  of  its  entrance,  down  the  steep 

Passing  the  circles,  nneaoorted,  eomee 

One  whuso  stroDg  might  caii  open  us  this  land.' 

CANTO    IX. 


1 


he.  ingcihfr  with  VlxB^'t  psaaea  nawuil  between  li 

The  hue,' which  coward  dread  on  my  pale  ( 
Imprinted  when  I  eaw  my  guide  turn  hack. 
Chased  that  from  his  wtuch  newly  tbey  hod  w 


k 


And  Boccaccio.  Nlnf.  Fie. 

wU  il.  933 

i  8 1!  ni  n 

;'£«'; 

conlendB. 

The^  word. 

tnanlBllan 

OB  ft*  Met 

"'^'^^M^ 

III."    Ihul 

Nfore  u^lale 

Mr.  Carlrle 

fiir  delecting  ft 

»  lV.tkar 

Vlr^lanm. 

Ihsl  Ibeae  evil 

pirmwd 

hownthem 

when  our  Bsi. 

onrdBicB 

Bded  IDIO 

hrtl.    They 

twinpUidIn 

prevent  htoi  from  onlerln 

e.ovtrwhld 

Deouhiid 

read   tha   hu 

cnle  which."  MV.   Ihe 

noman  poBV  ■ 

hsd  Juil  paMod,  by  w 

gain  admilla 

ucelDlolhs 

""if  >»,*...] 

Vl.gll.pa 

tolrtng  lb 

1  Dante  WB 

.iHlewttk 

ftar.  reaUalBod 

tmlisvEd. 

^ 

4-38.  HELL,  Canto  IX.  93 

And  inwardly  restrain'd  it.     He,  aa  one 
Who  listens,  stood  attentive :  for  his  eye 
Not  far  could  lead  him  through  the  sable  air. 
And  the  thick-gathering  cloud.     "  It  yet  behoove* 
We  win  this  fight ;"  thus  he  began :  "  if  not, 
Such  aid  to  us  is  ofier'd. — Oh !  how  long 
Me  seems  it,  ere  the  promised  help  arrive." 

I  noted,  how  the  sequel  of  his  words 
Cloaked  their  beginning ;  for  the  last  he  spake 
Agreed  not  with  the  first.     But  not  the  less 
My  fear  was  at  his  saying ;  sith  I  drew 
To  import  worse,  perchance,  than  that  he  held, 
His  mutilated  speech.     "  Doth  ever  any 
Into  this  rueful  concave's  extreme  depth 
Descend,  out  of  the  first  degree,  whose  pain 
Is  deprivation  merely  of  sweet  hope  ?" 

Thus  I  inquiring.     "  Rarely,"  he  replied, 
"  It  chances,  that  among  us  any  makes 
This  journey,  which  I  wend.     Erewhile,  His  true, 
Once  came  I  here  beneath,  conjured  by  fell 
Erictho,*  sorceress,  who  compelPd  the  shades 
Back  to  their  bodies.     No  long  space  my  fiesh 
Was  u£iked  of  me,^  when  within  these  walls 
She  made  me  enter,  to  draw  forth  a  spirit 
From  out  of  Judas'  circle.     Lowest  place 
Is  that  of  all,  obscurest,  and  removed 
Farthest  from  heaven's  all-circling  orb.    The  road 
Full  well  I  know :  thou  therefore  rest  secure. 
That  lake,  the  noisome  stench  exhaling,  round 
The  city  of  grief  encompasses,  which  now 
We  may  not  enter  without  rage."     Yet  more 
He  added :  but  I  hold  it  not  in  mind, 
For  that  mine  eye  toward  the  lofty  tower 
Had  drawn  me  wholly,  to  its  burning  top ; 
Where,  in  an  instant,  I  beheld  uprisen 

1  Erictho.]  Erictho,  a  Thessalian  Rorceress,  according  to 
Lncan,  Pha»al.,  I.  vi.,  was  employed  by  Sextus,  son  of  Pom- 
pey  the  Great,  to  conjure  up  a  spirit,  who  should  inform  him 
of  the  L«sne  of  the  civil  wars  between  his  father  and  Csesar. 

2 JV*o  long  space  my  flesh 

Was  naked  of  me.] 

Qtis  corpus  complexa  animiB  tarn  fortis  inano. 

Ovid.  Met.,  1.  xiii.  fab.  2. 

Dante  appears  to  have  fallen  into  an  anachronism.  Virgirs 
death  did  not  happen  till  long  after  this  period.  But  Lom- 
bard! shows,  in  opposition  to  the  other  commentators,  that 
the  anachronism  is  only  apparent.  Erictho  might  well  have 
survived  the  battle  of  Pharsalia  long  enough  to  be  employed 
in  her  magical  practices  at  the  time  of  VirgiPg  decease. 


94                          TltE  VIBTON.                      ^^^^| 
At  once  Ihieo  helludi  furJM  nain'd  with  blood:  ^^H 
In  limb  and  motion  feminine  Ihey  «^em'd  ;          ^^M 
Around  them  gteenort  hydras  [wiuting  roU'd       ^^H 
Tbeir  volnmes  ;  adders  and  oerBHtw'  crept         ^^H 
Instead  of  hair,  and  theii  fierce  temples  bound.  ^H 
He,  knowing  well  the  miserable  hags               ^H 
Who  tend  the  queen  of  endlesfl  wo,  ttiiu  spake:  ^^M 
"Mark  thou  each  dire  ErynniB.     To  the  loft,        ^H 
This  is  MegBra  ;  on  the  right  hand,  she                        1; 

r  111'  midst"     This  said,  ui  sUence  ho  remain'd. 

Their  breast  they  each  one  etawine  tore;   Ihem- 

selvefl                                                           raised,] 

Srnole  with    Iheir  pahns,  and   such    thrill    clamor 

"  Hiisteii  Modima :  so  to  adamant 

Him  shall  we  change  ;"  all  looking  down  eiclaim'd: 

"  E'en  wh<:ti  by  Tlieseiu'  might  asul'd,  ws  toOl^^m 

No  ill  revenge."     "  Turn  thyself  round,  uid  keO^H 

Thy  cDunlt^Qoneo  hid ;  for  if  Ihe  Gorgon  dita     ^^^H 

Be  shown,  oiid  thou  shuiddat  view  il,  thy  retnm^^H 

Upwards  would  he  for  ever  lost."     This  said,      ^^M 

Himself,  my  gentle  msBler,  tnm'd  me  nnad  j     ^^^| 

Nor  truDted  he  my  handg,  bnt  with  his  own         ^H 

He  also  hid  me.     Ye  of  intellect                            ^^M 

Sound  and  entire,  mack  well  tlie  lore'  coucmTA^^H 

Under  close  t«xture  of  the  mystic  strain.              ^^H 

And  now  there  came  o'er  the  perturbed  WBV«^^H 

<  Addi^!  ind  eenl>lc<.l                                                        ^^H 

VlperEiun  ctlDem  vliUa  inneiH  rrueDlls.                     ^^H 

' 

spindqne  va^  lonineiileeerajIB                   ^^^| 

ellnmdldlpas*                      ^H 

PoMlllon:                                                                   ^^H 

Carulea  bam'il,  bydnu  anil  dIoib  drear,               .^^^H 

Anddlpwi'. P.X^hi.^^^H 

>  Tki  lart.l  Tbe  poel  pmbablr  Inlenda  lo  call  Die  rea^^H 

nltenllon  lo  Ihe  aUBCorluL  und  mynic  letue  of  Ihe  pi^HV 

UiB  <B»  of  ihoK  vfcet  which  pn>c«sd  Bum  IncoaUnendB  ipd 

VlrgLI,  with  Ihe  ordliiarv  eiace  nf  God,  nay  ba  a  iDnctant 
■al^atd;  bul  tti>llnlhe1n>lBnimofino»liiilacaii  crlmSB, 

each  a>  Ibou  we  shall  Imiesnei  see  vuDl'bed.  a  >p«kl 

1 

i 

ti~n. 


HELL,  Canto  DC. 


95 


EUhar  ahore  trainblp,  as  ir  of  a  wind' 
Impetuous,  from  conflintiag  vapors  sprung. 
That  'goliisl  some  furest  di^ving  all  his  might. 
Plucks  olTthe  branchea,  beabs  Ihcm  down,  and  linrla 
ATar^  Ihsn,  onward  pasaing,  proudly  sweep 
Ui>  whiriwind  rage,  while  besflls  and  sbcpheida  fly. 

Mine  eyes  be  looseif,  and  spuko :  "  And  now  direct 
Thy  Tiaual  nerve  slang  tbat  ancient  foain, 
There,  thickest  where  tbe  smoke  ascends."    As  frogs 
BBfore  their  foe  the  serpent,  tiimiigh  tbe  waTe 
Ply  swiOiy  all,  till  at  Uie  ground  each  one 
Lies  on  a  Iieap ;  more  than  a  thouBand  spirits 
Destroy'd,  so  saw  I  Seeing  before  one 
Who  paa'd  with  unwet  feet  the  Stygian  sonnd 
He,  from  ills  face  removing  the  groes  air. 
Oft  his  left  band  forth  atretch'd,  and  aeeni'd  alone 
By  that  annoyance  wearied.     1  perceived 
That  he  was  sent  from  heaven  ;  and  to  my  guido 
Turn'd  mo,  who  signal  made,  thnt  I  should  stand 
Qniet,  and  bend  to  him.     Ah  me  I  how  full 
or  noble  anger  Bcem'd  be.     To  the  gate 
He  came,  and  with  bis  wand'  louch'd  il,  whereat 
Open  widioul  impediment  it  flew. 

"  OntcaslB  of  heavpn  I  O  abject  race,  and  scom'd!" 
Beean  be,  ou  tlie  horrid  gtuusel  standing, 
"  Wlience  doth  tliie  wild  excess  of  insolence 
Lodge  in  you?  wherefore  kick  you  'gainst  that  will 
Ne'er  frustrate  of  its  end,  and  which  so  oft 
Hath  laid  on  you  enforcement  of  your  pangs? 
What  profiU,  at  the  fates  to  butt  tlio  horn? 
Vwtt  Caborus,'  if  ye  remember,  hence 


I    IndiBiBd  byBenu: 


96  THE  VISION.  W-IS4. 

Bears  xtill,  peel'd  of  <heir  ]iair,  Eiln  tbmot  aud  idbw." 

This  BBid,  lie  lum'd  bank  a'rt  tbe  filUiy  way, 
And  i^-llsble  to  its  iipake  none  ;  but  v/oie 
The  neinblance  of  a  man  by  olIiKr  cam 
Beset,  Had  keenly  prcsa'd,  than  Ihnughl  of  him 
Who  in  his  preeence  Maiidti.    Then  va  oiir  steps 
Toward  that  lejrilory  movod,  Hecure 
AflEr  Ihe  bsllow'd  w-orda.     We,  imr^poeed. 
There  enter'd ;  and,  my  mind  eager  to  learn 
What  state  a  fortroe  like  to  that  might  hold, 
I,  soon  as  enter'd,  throw  laine  eye  around. 
And  Bee,  on  every  part,  wide -stretching  space. 
Replete  with  bitter  pain  nnd  torment  ill. 

As  where  Rhone  stagnalea  od  the  plains  of  Aries,' 
Or  aa  al  Pola,'  near  Qiiamaro's  gull. 
That  cloaen  Italy  and  laves  ber  bounds, 
Tbe  place  is  all  thick  spread  whJi  sepulchres ; 
So  was  it  here,  save  what  in  horror  here 
E:iceird;  for  'midst  the  graves  were  scatler'd  flame*, 
Wherewith  iatenscly  all  throiighont  lliey  buni'd,' 
Thai  iron  for  no  craft  there  hotter  needs. 

Their  lids  all  bnng  suspended  \  and  beneath. 
From  them  forth  issued  lamentable  moans, 
Such  BB  the  sad  and  lortitred  well  might  raise. 

1  tliua  :  "  Master  [  say  who  are  these,  interr'd 
Withiu  tlieao  vaults,  of  whom  distinct  wo  hear 
The  dolorous  siglis."      He  answer  tliua  retum'd: 


I 


iii'iai. 


HELL.  Canto  X. 


■f^The  arch-herptics  are  here,  accuniptuiied 
By  every  anct  their  fo1lDW(<ni ;  aiii]  much  mor 
Than  Ihou  believist,  the  tombe  are  frpighted : 
With  iikp  a  burled  ;  unci  the  uienumeutB 
Are  difibrent  in  degrees  of  heat."     This  said, 
He  to  the  right  hand  turning,  on  we  pass'd 
3etiriit  the  afflicted  and  the  ramparts  high. 


^5^:^: 


CANTO   X. 


Between  the  walls,  that  hem  the  region  round, 
And  the  tormented  bouIb:  my  master  firal, 
I  dose  behind  ilia  steps.     "  Virtue  supreme  '." 
I  thus  began  :  "  who  through  these  ampie  ortn 
In  circuit  iead'al  me,  even  as  thou  will'at  ; 
Speak  thou,  and  satisfy  my  wish.     May  Chose, 
Who  lie  within  these  sepnlchres,  be  seen  ? 
Already  all  the  lida  are  raised,  and  none 
O'er  them  keeps  watch."    He  thus  in  answer  spake : 
"  They  ^ati  be  cloaed  all,  what-time  they  here 
From  Jasaphat'  relum'd  shall  come,  and  bring 
ThuT  bodies,  whii:h  above  they  now  have  left. 
The  cemetery  on  this  part  obtain, 
With  EiHcunis,  all  his  followcni, 
Who  with  the  body  make  the  spirit  die. 
Here  therefore  aatisfuction  shall  bo  soon, 
Botli  to  the  questiou  ask'd,  and  to  the  wish* 


'AHpia,.] 

1  leenut  to  hay 

||I»P    H    C( 

mmDn  DpIaloB 

uiiavateJew 

■iiH«l  Jadpim 

lievsUcy 

and  bSiI  bitni 
ud  win  p\ai 

■bm  di>wti  tnu,  the  v^tayor  Je 

nahnphol. 

■rta  llwin  IbPT 

hDMlagi  IshbL, 

iM»«>itarh.^ 

■alte^ainaDK 

and  puiBil  my 

Im4."    Jwl.  1 

■  »v™*,I 

nlshBdno 

expce<«d,»a> 

Mie«  uidcun 

iKven ur BplciiiTUi  Kuumi 

whom,  wv  >lu> 

u.  degU  Ub"^ 

cni  and  Ciml- 

eaalBCanloin 

7 

i 

gS  THE  VIMOX. 

Wliicb  tliou  conceal'rt  in  gileiioe." 

"  I  kEtp  not.  giiidct  beloved  !  from  ihee  my  hi 

■Secrelcil,  UiU  to  shun  Toin  length  of  words; 

A  leasou  erewliile  tan^t  me  by  Uiyself." 

"  U  Tuscan  i  tbtm,  who  througii  Ihe  city  of  ft 
Alive  art  pasfliugi  so  discreet  of  Hpeeoh : 
Here,  plflosc  lliee.  any  awtiils.     Tby  UC 
Declares  tbe  place  of  thy  nativity 
Tu  be  thtit  noble  Innd,  witb  which  perchonc 
tealL"     Sadden  that  aoiind 


Fori 


t,  when 


Approaching,  he  thus  spoJce : 
Lol  FarhiBla'  there,  who  hath 
Uplifted  ;  from  his  girdle  upwiL 
Biposed,  behold  him."  Ou  bit 
Already  fix^d;  his  lirvnst  and  fi 
-       ■■  ■■      im  high  ace 


fP 


Erecting,  b 
E'en  hell. 
My  guide  1l 
Tbifl  wanii 


with  feai 

I  adtled  ;  '■  See  ihy  wor 

in  tliere  I  atood  at  tJio  to 


Addresa'd  me  i  "  l^iiy  what  ui 
1]  wilbng  to  obey  him,  etiai 
The  whole,  nor  kept  back  aught :  wheuue  It 

Somewhat  uplifting,  cried  :  "  Fiercely  wer 
Adverfie  to  me,  my  party,  and  the  blood 
From  whence  I  eprang  :  twice,'  thorelbro,  I  a] 
Scatter'd  them."        "  Though  driven 


1  Ru-isola.]    FBrinKD _.. 

V.-OS  tbs  lendec  of  Ibe  Chlbelbn 

a  ilgnal  victoty  orcr  CIta  GueJfl  at  Montapeno.  ae 

Art^    HucbUvelll  Ealb  blm  "a  iniui  of  enll^  ~m,.  •!■<■■ 

BBBt  mDllHT  tnlrali!."    Bint.  nT  Fin.,  b.  II.    Hli  Emndaba, 

BDDiniHo.  or,  as  be  la  coRinKHdy  CBlled,  Fiuln  de^I  Ubenl, 


51-64.  HELL,  Canto  X.  QQ 

Then,  peering  forth  from  the  unclosed  jaw, 
Rose  from  his  side  a  shade,'  hi^h  us  the  chin, 
Leaning,  methoa^t,  upon  its  knees  upraised. 
It  look'd  around,  as  eager  to  explore 
If  there  were  other  with  me  ;  but  perceiving 
That  fond  imagination  quench'd,  with  tears 
Thus  spake :  "  If  thou  through  this  blind  prison  go'st, 
Led  by  thy  lofty  genius  and  profound, 
Where  is  my  son !'  and  wherefore  not  with  thee?" 

I  straight  replied :  "  Not  of  myself  I  come  ; 
By  him,  who  there  expects  me,  through  this  clime 
Conducted,  whom  perchance  Guide  thy  son 
Had  in  contempt."*     Already  had  his  words 
And  mode  of  punishment  read  mo  his  name. 


,1 

.1 


1  A  shade."]  The  spirit  of  Cavalcanto  CavulconU,  a  noble 
Florentine,  of  the  Gnelph  party. 

»  JMy  son.}  Guido,  the  son  of  Cavalcantc  (^avalcantl ;  "  he 
whom  I  call  the  first  of  my  friends,"  sayx  I)nnte  in  his  Vita 
Niiova,  where  the  commencement  of  their  friendship  is  re- 
lated. From  the  character  given  of  him  l)y  contemporary 
writers,  his  temper  was  well  foniied  to  assimilate  witli  that 
of  our  poet.  "He  was,"  according  to  (».  Villani,  lit),  viil.  c. 
41,  "of  a  phiIasophir4il  and  elegant  mind,  if  he  had  not  Iwen 
too  delicate  and  fastidious."  And  Dino  Coiiii»agni  tonus  him 
**  a  young  and  noble  knight,  brave  and  c«)urteous,  but  of  a 
lofty,  sc4)rnful  spirit,  much  addicted  to  solitude  and  study.** 
Muratori,  Rer.  Ital.  Script.,  t.  9,  lib.  i.  p.  481.    He  died,  either  { 

in  exile  at  Scrrazann,  or  soon  after  his  return  to  Florence, 
December,  1300,  during  the  spring  of  which  year  the  action  j 

of  this  poem  is  supposed  to  l)e  passing.  I 

'  Guido  thy  son 

Had  in  contempt.] 

Guido  Cavalcanti,  t>cing  morn  given  to  philosophy  than 
IKietry,  was,  perhaps,  no  great  aduiirer  of  Virgil.  Borne  po- 
etical compositions  by  Guido  are,  however,  still  extant ;  and 
his  reputation  for  skill  in  the  art  was  such  as  to  eclipse  tluit 
of  his  predecessor  and  namesake,  (Juido  (lUinicelli ;  as  we 
shall  see  in  the  Purgatory,  Canto  xi.,  in  the  notes  to  which 
the  reader  will  find  specimens  of  the  pocnn  that  have  lM«en 
left  by  each  of  these  writers.  His  "  Canzone  supra  11  Ter- 
rene Amore"  was  thought  worthy  of  l»eing  illustnited  by  nu- 
merous and  ample  commentaries.  Crcscinibeni,  1st.  della 
Volg.  Poes.,  lib.  v. 

Our  Author  addressed  him  in  a  playful  sonnet,  of  which 
the  following  spirited  tmnsiation  is  found  in  the  notes  to 
Hayley's  Essay  on  Epic  Poetry,  Ep.  iii. : 
Henry !  1  wish  that  you,  and  Charles,  and  I, 

By  some  sweet  spell  within  a  bark  were  placed, 

A  gallant  bark  with  magic  virtue  graced. 

Swift  at  our  will  with  every  wind  to  fly ; 
Bo  that  no  changes  of  the  shifting  sky, 

No  stormy  terrors  of  the  watery  w:iste. 

Might  bar  our  course,  but  heighten  still  our  taste 

Of  sprightly  joy,  and  of  our  social  tie : 


100  THE  VISION.  85-80. 

Whence  I  so  folly  answer'd.    He  at  once 
Exclaim'd,  upstarting :  "  How !  said'st  thou,  he  had  ?^ 
No  longer  lives  he  ?     Strikes  not  on  his  eye 
The  blessed  daylight  ?"     Then,  of  some  delay 
I  made  ere  my  reply,  aware,  down  fell 
Supine,  nor  after  forth  appeared  he  more. 

Meanwhile  the  other,  great  of  soul,  near  whom 
I  yet  was  station'd,  changed  not  countenance  stem. 
Nor  moved  the  neck,  nor  bent  his  ribbed  side. 
**  And  if,"  continuing  the  first  discourse, 
"  They  in  this  art,"  he  cried, "  small  skill  have  shown ; 
That  doth  torment  me  more  e'en  than  this  bed. 
But  not  yet  fifty  times*  shall  be  relumed 
Her  aspect,  who  reigns  here  queen  of  this  realm,' 
Ere  thou  shalt  know  the  full  weight  of  that  art 
So  to  the  pleasant  world  mayst  thou  return,^ 


Then  that  my  Lucy,  Lucy  fair  and  free, 

With  those  soft  nymphs,  on  whom  your  souls  are  bent, 

The  kind  magician  might  to  us  convey, 
To  talk  of  love  throughout  the  live-long  day ; 

And  that  each  fkir  might  be  as  well  content, 

As  I  in  truth  believe  our  hearts  would  be. 

The  two  friends,  here  called  Henry  and  Charles,  are,  in  the 
original,  Guido  and  Lapo,  concerning  the  latter  of  whom,  see 
the  Life  of  Dante  prefixed ;  and  Lucy  is  Monna  Bice. 

A  more  literal  version  of  the  sonnet  may  be  found  in  the 
"Canzoniere  of  Dante,  translated  by  Charles  Lyell,  Esq.'* 
8vo,  London,  1835,  p.  407. 

1  Said'st  thou,  he  had  ?]  In  ^nchylus,  the  shade  of  Darius 
is  represented  as  inquiring  with  similar  anxiety  after  the  fate 
of  his  son  Xerxes : 

Stossa.    MovdSa  6€  H/pft/v  eptJuSv  (paaiv  oi  iroAAw»  fiira — 
Darius.  IlQg  is  S?l  Kal  trot  reXevr^v ;  iari  rig  <n»rTip(a  ; 

nEPilAI.  741,  BloomfieUCs  EdiU 

^tossa.    Xerxes  astonished,  desolate,  alone [safe  1 

Ohost  of  Dar.    flow  will  this  end  1    Nay,  pause  not    Is  he 

The  Persians.    Potter's  Translation. 

«  JVot  yet  fifty  times.]  "Not  fifty  months  shall  be  ))a8sed 
before  thou  shalt  learn,  by  woful  experience,  the  difficulty 
of  returning  from  banishment  to  thy  native  city." 

«  Queen  of  this  realm.]  The  moon,  one  of  whose  titles  in 
heathen  mythology,  was  Proserpine,  queen  of  the  shades 
below. 

*  So  to  the  pleasant  loorld  mayst  thou  return.] 

E  se  tn  mai  nel  dolce  mondo  rcggi. 

Lombardi  would  construe  this :  "  And  if  thou  ever  remain 
in  the  pleasant  world."  His  chief  reasons  for  thus  departing 
from  the  common  interpretation,  are,  first,  that  "  so"  In  the 
sense  of  "so"  cannot  be  followed  by  "uiai,"  any  more  than 
in  Latin,  "  sic"  can  be  followed  by  "  unquam ;"  and  next, 
that  "reggi"  la  too  unlike  "ncAv"  to  be  put  for  it.    A  more 


.** 


100  THE  VISION.  85-60. 

Whence  I  so  fully  answer'd.    He  at  once 
Exclaim'd,  upstarting :  "  How !  said'st  thou,  he  had  7^ 
No  longer  lives  he  ?     Strikes  not  on  his  eye 
The  blessed  daylight  ?"     Then,  of  some  delay 
I  made  ere  my  reply,  aware,  down  fell 
Supine,  nor  after  forth  appear'd  he  more. 

Meanwhile  the  other,  great  of  soul,  near  whom 
I  yet  was  station'd,  changed  not  countenance  stem, 
Nor  moved  the  neck,  nor  bent  his  ribbed  side. 
"  And  if,"  continuing  the  first  discourse, 
"  They  in  this  art,"  he  cried, "  small  skill  have  shown ; 
That  doth  torment  me  more  e'en  than  this  bed. 
But  not  yet  fifty  times'*  shall  be  relumed 
Her  aspect,  who  reigns  here  queen  of  this  realm,' 
Ere  thou  shalt  know  the  full  weight  of  that  art. 
So  to  the  pleasant  world  mayst  thou  return/ 


Then  that  my  Lucy,  Lucy  fuir  and  free, 

With  those  soft  nymphs,  on  whom  your  souls  are  bent, 

The  kind  magician  might  to  us  convey, 
To  tallc  of  love  throughout  the  live-iong  day ; 

And  that  each  fair  might  be  as  well  content, 

As  I  in  truth  believe  our  hearts  would  be. 

The  two  friends,  here  called  Henry  and  Charles,  are,  in  the 
original,  Guide  and  Lapo,  concerning  the  latter  of  whom,  see 
the  Life  of  Dante  prefixed ;  and  Lucy  is  Monna  Bice. 

A  more  literal  version  of  the  sonnet  may  be  found  in  the 
"Canzoniere  of  Dante,  translated  by  Charles  Lyell,  Esq.'* 
8vo,  London,  1835,  p.  407. 

1  Said* St  thou,  he  had  ?]  In  iEschylus,  the  shade  of  Darius 
is  represented  as  inquiring  with  similar  anxiety  after  the  fate 
of  his  son  Xerxes : 

Stossa.    MovdSa  ie  H/p^t/v  eprindv  ipaaiv  ov  iroWSiv  ftira — 
Darius.  TLQi  is  S^  Kai  iroi  rcXevrqlv ;  itrri  ris  ourijpta  ; 

nEP2>:AI.  741,  BlomafieUPs  EMU 

Atossa.    Xerxes  astonished,  desolate,  alone [safe  1 

Ohost  of  Dar.    How  will  this  end  1    Nay,  p:tnse  not.    Is  he 

The  Persians.    Patterns  Translation. 

a  JVot  yet  fifty  times.]  "Not  fifty  months  shall  be  passed 
before  thou  shult  learn,  by  woful  experience,  the  difficulty 
of  returning  from  banishment  to  thy  native  city.'* 

3  Queen  of  this  realm.}  The  moon,  one  of  whose  titles  in 
heathen  mythology,  was  Proserpine,  queen  of  the  shades 
below. 

*  So  to  the  pleasant  world  mayst  thou  return.] 

E  sc  tu  mai  nel  dolcc  mondo  rcggi. 

Ijombardi  would  construe  this :  "  And  if  thou  ever  remain 
in  the  pleasant  world."  His  chief  reasons  for  thus  departing 
from  the  common  interpretation,  are,  first,  that  "  se**  in  the 
sense  of  "  so"  rannot  be  followed  by  "  mai,"  any  more  than 
in  Latin,  "  sic"  can  be  followed  by  "  unquam  ;"  and  next,  | 

that  "reggi"  is  too  unlike  "riedl"  to  be  put  for  it.    A  more  j 


100  THE  VISION.  85-60. 

Whence  I  so  fully  answer'd.    He  at  once 
Exclaim'd,  upstarting :  "  How !  said'st  thou,  he  had  ?^ 
No  longer  lives  he  ?     Strikes  not  on  liis  eye 
The  hlessed  daylight  1"     Then,  of  some  delay 
I  made  ere  my  reply,  aware,  down  fell 
Supine,  nor  after  forth  appear'd  he  more. 

Meanwhile  the  other,  great  of  soul,  near  whom 
I  yet  was  stationed,  changed  not  countenance  stem. 
Nor  moved  the  neck,  nor  bent  his  ribbed  side. 
"  And  if,"  continuing  the  first  discourse, 
"  They  in  this  art,"  ho  cried, "  small  skill  have  shown ; 
That  doth  torment  mo  more  e'en  than  this  bed. 
But  not  yet  fifty  times^  shall  be  relumed 
Her  aspect,  who  reigns  hero  queen  of  this  realm,' 
Ere  thou  shalt  know  the  full  weight  of  that  art. 
So  to  the  pleasant  world  mayst  thou  return/ 


Then  that  my  Lucy,  Lucy  fair  and  free, 

With  those  soft  nymphs,  on  whom  your  souls  are  bent, 

The  kind  magician  might  to  us  convey, 
To  tallc  of  love  throughout  the  live-long  day; 

And  that  each  fair  might  be  as  well  content, 

As  I  in  truth  believe  our  hearts  would  be. 

The  two  friends,  here  called  Henry  and  Charles,  are,  in  the 
original,  Guido  and  Lapo,  concerning  the  latter  of  whom,  see 
the  Life  of  Dante  prefixed ;  and  Lucy  is  Monna  Bice. 

A  more  literal  version  of  the  sonnet  may  be  found  in  the 
"Canzoniere  of  Dante,  translated  by  Charles  Lyell,  Esq.'* 
8vo,  London,  1835,  p.  407. 

1  Said'stthoujhehad?]  In  ^schylus,  the  shade  of  Darius 
is  represented  as  inquiring  with  similar  anxiety  after  the  fate 
of  his  son  Xerxes : 

Stossa.    MovdSa  &€  H/p^t/v  eptjudv  <paaiv  ov  iroAAwv  ftira — 
Darius.  HQs  is  S^  Kal  irot  rcXsvrqlv ;  iari  ris  ourijpta  ; 

nEP2i:AI.  741,  Bloomfield:»  Edit. 

Atossa.    Xerxes  astonished,  desolate,  alone [safe  1 

Ohost  of  Dar.    flow  will  this  end  7    Nay,  pause  not    Is  he 

The  Persians.    Patterns  l\-anslation. 

»  JVot  yet  fifty  times.']  "Not  fifty  months  shall  be  passed 
before  thou  shalt  learn,  by  woful  experience,  the  difficulty 
of  returning  from  banishment  to  thy  native  city." 

s  Queen  of  this  realm.}  The  moon,  one  of  whose  titles  in 
heathen  mythology',  was  Proserpine,  queen  of  the  shades 
below. 

*  So  to  the  pleasant  world  mayst  thou  return.] 

E  se  tu  mai  nel  dolce  mondo  rcggi. 

liombardi  would  construe  this :  "  And  if  thou  ever  remain 
in  the  pleasant  world."  His  chief  reasons  for  thus  departing 
from  the  common  interpretation,  are,  first,  that  "  se"  in  the 
sense  of  "so"  cannot  be  followed  by  "mai,"  any  more  than 
in  Latin,  "  sic*'  can  be  followed  by  "  unquam ;"  and  next, 
that  "rcggi"  is  too  unlike  "ricdi"  to  be  put  for  it.    A  more 


/ 


100  THE  VISION.  e5-«0. 

Whence  I  bo  fully  answer'd.    He  at  once 
Exclaim'd,  upstarting :  "  How !  said'et  thou,  he  had  7^ 
No  longer  lives  he  ?     Strikes  not  on  liis  eye 
The  blessed  daylight?"     Then,  of  some  delay 
I  made  ere  my  reply,  aware,  down  fell 
Supine,  nor  after  forth  appeared  he  more. 

Meanwhile  the  other,  great  of  soul,  near  whom 
I  yet  was  station'd,  changed  not  countenance  stem. 
Nor  moved  the  neck,  nor  bent  his  ribbed  side. 
"  And  if,"  continuing  the  first  discourse, 
"  They  in  this  art,"  he  cried, "  small  skill  have  shown ; 
That  doth  torment  me  more  e'en  than  this  bed. 
But  not  yet  fifty  times''  shall  be  relumed 
Her  aspect,  who  reigns  here  queen  of  tliis  realm,' 
Ere  thou  shalt  know  the  full  weight  of  that  art. 
So  to  the  pleasant  world  mayst  thou  return,^ 


Then  that  my  Lucy,  Lucy  fair  and  free, 

With  those  sotl  nymphs,  on  whom  your  souls  are  bent, 

The  kind  magician  might  to  us  convey, 
To  talk  of  love  throughout  the  live-long  day ; 

And  that  each  fair  might  be  as  well  content, 

As  lin  truth  believe  our  hearts  would  be. 

The  two  friends,  here  called  Henry  and  Charles,  are,  in  the 
original,  Guido  and  Lapo,  concerning  the  latter  of  whom,  see 
the  Life  of  Dtuito  prefixed ;  and  Lucy  is  Monna  Bice. 

A  more  literal  version  of  the  sonnet  may  be  found  in  the 
"Canzoniero  of  Dante,  translated  by  Charles  Lyell,  Esq.** 
8vo,  London,  1835,  p.  407. 

1  Said'st  thou,  he  had  ?]  In  iEschylus,  the  shade  of  Darius 
is  represented  as  inquiring  with  siuiilar  anxiety  after  the  fate 
of  his  son  Xerxes : 

jStossa.    MovdSa  ie  E/pft/v  eptjuSv  <j>a(Tiv  ov  iroWQi/  fiira — 
Darius.  IIwj  is  Sh  Kai  iroX  reXsvr^v ;  fort  ris  otartipla  ; 

IIEPX'AI.  741,  Bloomjield's  Edit. 

Atossa.    Xerxes  astonished,  desolate,  alone [»afe  1 

Ohost  of  Dar.    How  will  this  end  1    Nay,  p:mse  not.    Is  he 

The  Persians.    Potter's  Translation. 

9  JVb<  yet  fifty  times.']  "  Not  fifty  months  shall  be  passed 
before  thou  shalt  learn,  by  woful  experience,  the  diracnlty 
of  returning  from  banishment  to  thy  native  city." 

8  ^ueen  of  this  rciUm.\  The  moon,  one  of  whose  titles  in 
heathen  mythology,  was  Proserpine,  queen  of  the  shades 
below. 

*  So  to  the  pleasant  world  mayst  thou  return.] 

E  se  tu  mai  ncl  dolce  mondo  reggi. 

liombardi  would  construe  this :  "  And  if  thou  ever  remain 
in  the  pleasant  world."  His  chief  reasons  for  thus  departing 
from  the  common  intcrpr<!tation,  arc,  first,  that  "  se*'  in  the 
sense  of  "so"  cannot  he  followed  by  "niai,"  any  more  than 
in  Latin,  "  sic'*  can  be  followed  by  "  unquam  ;"  and  next, 
that  "reggi"  is  too  unlike  "t\cAv"  u>  \ve.  put  for  it.    A  more 


L 


100  THE  VISION.  85-60. 

Whence  I  ho  fully  anewerM     He  at  once 


81-93.  IIELL,  Canto  X.  101 

As  thou  shall  tell  ine  why,  in  all  thoir  Iuwh, 
Against  my  kin  this  people  is  so  fell." 

"  The  slau^hter^  and  great  havoc,"  I  rejilied, 
"  That  color'd  Arbia's  iiood  with  crimson  stain — 
To  these  impute,  that  in  our  hallow'd  dome 
Such  orisons'''  ascend."     Sighing  ho  shook 
The  head,  then  thus  resumed :   "  In  that  affray 
I  stood  not  singly,  nor,  without  just  cause, 
Assuredly,  should  with  the  rest  have  stirr'd ; 
But  singly  there  I  stood,'  when,  by  consent 
Of  all,  Florence  had  to  the  ground  been  razed. 
The  one  who  openly  forbade  the  deed." 

"  So  may  thy  lineage^  find  at  last  repose," 


intimate  acfiuaintancc  with  the  early  Florentine  writeni  would 
have  taught  him  that  *'  mat"  U  used  in  other  rtemtes  than  those 
which  "unquam*'  appe.ir:i  to  have  had,  particularly  in  that 
of  '*  piv,'*  *'  yet ;"  as  may  be  seen  in  the  notes  to  the  Decam- 
eron, p.  43,  T^.  Giunti,  1573 ;  and  that  the  old  writers  both  of 
prose  and  verse  changed  "  riedo"  hito  "  ropgio,"  as  of  "  fledo" 
they  made  "  feggio."  Inf.,  c.  xv.  v.  39,  and  c.  xvii.  v.  75.  See 
page  98  of  the  same  notes  to  the  Decameron,  where  a  poet 
i)et'ore  Dantc'9  time  is  said  to  have  translated  "Redeunt 
flores,"  "  Keggiono  i  fiori." 

1  The  slaughter.]  "By  means  of  Farinata  dcgli  Ubertl, 
the  Guelfi  were  conquered  by  the  army  of  king  Manftedi, 
near  the  river  Arhia,  with  so  groat  a  slaughter,  that  those 
who  e!<capcd  from  that  defeat  took  refuge,  n<it  in  Florence, 
which  city  thoy  considered  as  lost  to  them,  but  in  Lucca.** 
Macchiavelli,  Hist,  of  Flor.,  b.  ii.,  and  G.  Villani,  lib.  vl.  c. 
Kxx.  and  Ixxxi. 

2  Such  orisons.']  This  appears  to  allude  to  certain  prayers 
which  were  offered  up  in  the  churches  of  Florence,  for  deliv- 
erance from  the  hostile  attempts  of  the  Uberti :  or,  it  may  bo, 
that  the  public  councils  being  held  in  churches,  the  siieerhes 
delivered  in  them  against  the  Uberti  arc  termed  "orisons,**  or 
prayer:*. 

3  Sinffly  there  I  stood.]  Guido  Novello  assembled  a  council 
of  the  Ghibeliini  at  Empoli ;  where  it  was  agreed  by  all,  that, 
in  order  to  maintain  the  ascendency  of  the  Ghibelline  ixirty 
in  Tuscany,  it  was  necessary  to  destroy  Florence,  which  could 
serve  only  (the  |x;ople  of  that  city  licing  Guelfi)  to  enable  the 
p;irty  attached  to  the  church  to  recover  its  strength.  This 
cruel  sentence,  passed  upon  so  noble  a  city,  met  with  no  op- 
position from  any  of  its  citizens  or  friends,  except  Farinata 
degli  Ubt^rti,  who  openly  and  without  reserve  forbade  the 
measure  ;  affirming,  that  he  had  endured  so  many  hardshi|)S, 
and  encountered  so  many  dangers,  with  no  other  view  than 
that  of  being  able  to  pass  his  days  in  his  own  country.  Mac- 
chiavelli, Hist,  of  Flor.,  b.  ii. 

*  So  may  thy  lineage.] 

Deh  se  riposi  mai  vostra  semenza. 

Here  Lombard!  is  again  mistaken,  as  at  v.  80,  al>ove.  Let 
me  take  this  occasion  to  h,ppi\ze  (he  reader  of  Italian  poetry^ 
that  one  not  well  versed  in  it  Is  very  apt  to  mbwippTeYveiid 


1 
I 

II 


b: 


log  THE  ViaON.  J 

I  tliiiii  adjured  him.  "  as  Iltau  solve  tills  knal. 
Which  nriw  mvolvcn  my  mind.     If  rlglil  1  hear,  ■ 
Yp  iv.eio  Co  view  lipforoliaud  Idol  which  time 
Lcndx  with  him,  or  the  present  unliifonn'd." 

"  We  niew,'  as  i>ne  who  lialh  an  evil  tight," 
He  anawer'd,  "  plainly,  ohje^cls  foi  remote  ; 
So  much  of  his  large  splendor  yel  imparta 
The  Almighty  Buler;  but  when  they  approHDli,fl 
Or  actually  exiel,  our  intellect 
Then  wholly  fule ;  nor  of  yoor  human  slata, 
Except  what  others  bring  ua,  know  we  aught. 
Hence  therefore  mayst  thou  understand,  that  ai 
Our  knowledge  In  that  inHtnnt  shall  expire, 
When  on  futurity  the  portala  close." 

Then  conscious  of  my  fault,'  and  by  remacBe 
Smitten,  1  added  Ibua :  "  Now  shalt  thou  say 
To  him  there  fallen,  that  hia  o%iring  still 
Is  to  the  living  joiaM  ;  and  bid  him  know, 

^Twos  that  my  thonght  was  occupied,  intent 
Upon  that  error,  which  tlij  help  hath  solved." 

But  now  my  master  aummoaing  ma  back 
1  heard,  and  with  more  eager  ijoste  besought 
The  spirit  lo  infomi  mc,  who  witli  him 
Partook  luB  lot     Ho  answer  thus  retum'd : 
"  jVIore  than  a  thousand  with  me  hero  are  laid. 
Witliin  is  Frederick,'  socflod  of  that  name, 


aninp  In  which  it  ii  OBed,  li  aSbnJsd  In  ttie  fiillinrtiin 


TranquMLo  flume  d!  vagbezia  pleno;  ^^^| 

Be'l  ciofoal  mnrfli  chlaro  t'  nctompiigal ;  ^^^| 

Le  Pile  iBgrime  occnglk  epmiaL  tao  veno. 
Here  Ihe  flrsl  "bg"  ilgnifles  "  so,"  and  tbs  aecond,  "  tf.- 
>  H'c  DicB.]    The  tlepnned  iiplilU)  know  tblnn  puH  and 

immediate  aniwHf  m  the  Inquiry  nf  Onvnlcanle.  (rnm  which 
'  BlBf  he  woj  1c4  [olK-Uove  thathlA  KniGuldo  was  no  loafer 

■  Tit^iricti    ThsEmperoitVederlcklheSecDDil.whodieil 


in-13B.                   HELL 

Canto  XI 

103 

And  the  Lord  Caidlnal 

ondoflh 

reat 

I  apeak  not."     He 

IhiH 

ud,  from  s 

fflit  willidre 

But  I  my  etcpe  tD> 

lajt! 

RevffliiDg,  nim[Dal 

the  words 

Betokemng  ma  sue 

AndlhuB,  in  going, 

That  holds  thy  »D 

captT"     iMtiBiiad 

B  aago  eujoinM 

neatrdght 

'•  I*t  thy  aafe  niBmoiy  stow  what  tilou  tioat  hoard 
To  thee  importing  harm  ;  and  note  tllQU  this," 
With  hia  leised  finger  bidding  rae  taku  heed, 
"  When  thou  sbait  ataod  before  lier  gracious  beam,* 
Whose  bright  eye  all  Burvaya,  elie  of  thy  life 
The  future  twior  will  lo  thee  unfold." 

Forthwith  lie  to  the  ieft  liand  turn'd  his  feet: 
We  left  the  wall,  and  towardij  the  middle  spuca 
Went  by  the  putii  that  to  a  valley  atrikee. 
Which  e'en  thua  high  exhaled  its  noisome  steam. 

CANTO  XI. 


thies  (gllnwlng 


,.  .. A .  o —  -ho  obyM.  ho  l< 


nf  bis  fnut  InOrienff,  he  wu  eenerally  knm 


n  of  "  Ibe  CuiUiuU"    ti  li 


^  'nraboMhl,''who 


that  Qvidmbenl  Dunitie 


Hleaemi  and  ptoeorBUr  oT  the  church  of  nn- 
VCM.  ■Aerwudi  made  OudWl  by  InDormi  IV.  In  lats,  and 
■mvHottiiB  Ibe  m»l  Iminmiit  public  UKilni.  whenin.  how- 
orsik  be  ibowfld  htmuir,  more  than  became  his  ctiunoter,  a 


llwJBlinf 


DDKih  II 


Ufon  the  uliDost  \eiTgo  of  a  high  hookT         * 
Bj'  craggy  rocks  environ'd  round,  wo  ciime, 
Wherd  wof^  LwDeath,  moro  cruel  yet,  wero  stow*!! : 
And  here,  lo  ahiin  the  horrihlo  exeeBs 
Of  Tetid  exhalation  up-waid  cast 
From  t]iB  profomid  ahysB,  behind  the  lid 
Of  It  great  ntonument  we  Blood  retired. 
Whereon  this  aeroll  I  mark'd:  "  I  have  in  chargo 
Pope  AnualaaioB,'  whom  Fhotuiua  drew 
From  the  right  path." — "  Ere  our  deooent,  behoovM 
We  make  delay,  that  somewhat  Rat  the  sense, 
To  the  dire  broatli  accuatoin'd,  afterward 
Regard  it  not."     My  luaaler  tbna  ;  to  whom 
Answering  I  spake  :  "  Some  oonipenaation  find, 
That  the  time  pass  not  wholly  loal."     Ha  then  : 
'■  Lo  !  how  my  thouglita  e'eu  to  thy  wishes  tend. 
My  son  !"  Within  theBe  rocks,"  he  tlina  hegan, 
•'  Are  three  close  circles  in  gradation  placed, 
Aa  these  which  now  tliou  learesL     Each  one  is  [ 
or  spirits  Bceuraed  ;  but  that  the  sight  alone 
liereaftor  may  Buffico  thee,  listen  how 
And  for  what  cause  in  dunmcc  Ihey  bI  ' 

"  Of  all  mHlicluUB  act  aUiorr'd  in  he 
The  end  is  injury  ;  and  all  anch  end 
Either  by  force  or  fraud'  works  other's  wo, 
But  fraud,  because  of  man  peculiar  evil. 
To  God  is  mare  displeiiBing ;  and  beneath. 
The  fraudulent  are  therefore  doom'd  la  endoie 
Severer  pang.     The  siolent  occupy 

ciincerDlni  the  lEngn  who  Lt  bere  inenUoned  ai  a  loUawaf 
of  Ibe  bcreUiui[pbaUnus.    By  uoie  be  b  innxwiid  lo  InVt 
lieen  AdhhuiIui  Ibe  Ssennd  ;  by  nlliera,  Ih»  Fourth  of  Ihgi  _ 
nnme ;  whlla  ■  IhJnl  net,  joalons  of  ihe  InUcritf  of  the  |iK[ii^  I 


Dl  Potln  vegoa  miil  gndnde  buI. 

DiiainODdu.  1. 11.  cup.  >W.  _ 
>  Mym.]  Tha  remajndfr  ijf  the  nreienl  CuId  HHV  IS  ■ 
uisldeTed  u  n  sylla1iii!i  of  the  wbola  of  Ibli  {Mil  oT  IW^ 

'■™ -(in- !,/«■«  pT/^-d-]  "Cun.  aolem  daolm.  mojifcl 
Id  C3l.  aat  vi,  am  rmndc  Hal  Ininria  .  .  .  nmimqiHi  tKoUt  ■ 
■■     •    ■      m;  HidrraaiailinJignainajOTC."     Oa.  J.  QT,  Ufc.T 


dealh,  Hnd  pBinfu]  wounda 


3»-«9.  HELL,  Canto  XI. 

All  the  firat  circle ;  and  because,  to  < 
Three  peisons  are  obaoidouB,  in  tbiei 
Each  within  alhor  Bcparato,  is  it  fran 
To  God,  his  neighbor,  and  hunself,  bj 
Force  may  be  olfbr'd  ;  (o  hhnself  1  ai 
And  his  posseseJonB,  as  (hou  soon  siia. 
At  fuIL     Death, 
Upon  his  neightnr  he  inflict 
By  deyaalatioQ,  piilage,  and  the  flames. 
His  Biibslance.     Slayers,  and  oach  one  that  f 
In  malice,  plunderers,  and  all  robbara,  lieuce 
The  torment  undergo  of  the  flrat  round, 
In  dificrent  herds,     Man  can  do  violence 
To  hintaelf  and  bis  own  blessings :  and  for  tb 
He,  in  Iha  second  round  must  aye  deplore 
With  tmaTailing  penitence  bia  crime, 
Whoe'er  deprisea  himself  of  life  and  ligbl, 
In  reckleas  laviahment  his  talent  wofiteti, 
And  sorrows'  there  where  he  should  dwell  in 
To  God  may  force  be  offer'd.  in  the  liearl 
Denying  and  blaspheming  his  high  power. 
And  Nature  with  her  kindly  law  onntemning 
And  thence  the  inmost  round  marke  with  its 
Sodom,  and  Cahois,'  and  all  such  as  speak 
Contemptuooaly  of  the  Godhead  in  tlieir  beai 
"  Fiaud,  Ibat  in  every  conscience  leaves  a 
May  be  by  man  cmploy'd  on  one,  whose  tnis 
He  wins,  or  on  another  wlio  witbhulds 
Strict  confidence,     Seema  as  the  latter  way 
Broke  bat  the  bood  of  love  which  Nature  ma 
Whence  in  the  aacond  circle  have  their  neat, 
Dimmulntion,  wilchcrail,  flatteries, 
Theft,  falaebood,  simony,  all  who  seduce 
To  luBl,  or  set  their  honesty  at  pawn, 
With  such  vile  scum  as  these.     The  other  wi 
ForgelB  both  Nutare's  general  love,  and  (bat 
Which  thereto  added  afterward  gives  birth 
To  special  faith.    Whence  in  the  leaaer  circle 
Point  of  the  universe,  dread  seat  of  Dis, 


t.tw*tmrmH.]    TbUfleeniort 
If  ll  lo  bo  DDgniUUiil  10  Uie  AuD 


106  THE  VISION. 

Tlie  traitor  is  eternally  couBiimed.^* 

J  thua :  "  liiHtructor,  cloiLrly-  thy  di 
Proceeds,  diBtinguuhing  the  hideous  ohaflra 
And  Its  iahabttant*  wiui  skill  exact. 
But  tell  me  thk :  they  of  the  dull,  fat  pool. 
Whom  the  laia  beats,  or  whom  Ibe  tempeat  i 
Or  trho  with  tongues  so  Rerce  conflicting  meet. 
Wherefore  witlim  Ihe  city  fire-illumed 
Are  not  these  pninish'd,  if  Uod'B  wrath  bo  c 
And  if  it  be  not,  wberefore  in  such  guise 
Are  they  condemn'd  V     He  aunwer  Ihiia  retum'djj 
"  Wherefore  in  dotago  wanders  thus  thy  mind; 
Not  BO  Bccustom'd?  or  what  other  thoughts 
Possess  it  1     Dwell  not  ui  Ihy  memory 
The  words,  wherein  thy  ethic  page'  desciibes 
Three  dispositions  iidierae  to  Heavea'n  will, 
Incontinence,  malice,  sac!  mad  brutishuea. 
And  how  inconllDence  the  least  oSeuds 
God,  and  least  guilt  incurs  1     U  weU  (bou  note 
This  judgmeal,  and  remember  who  they  are, 
Without  these  walla  to  rajn  repentance  doom'd, 
Thou  Bhall  discern  why  they  apart  ore  placed 
From  these  fell  ^irhSf  and  less  wreokful  pours 
Justice  divine  on  them  its  veiigeonee  down." 

"  O  smi '.  who  healeet  all  impejfect  sight. 
Thou  BO  conteut'st  tiie,  whtu  ihou  solveKt  my  doubt. 
That  ignorance  not  less  than  knowledge  chums. 
Yet  Bouiewhut  tuni  thee  back,"  I  in  these  words    ■ 
CoDtiuued,  "  where  thou  said'sl,  that  usury 
OSeuds  celestial  Goodness  ;  and  tliis  knot 
Perplex'd  UBtavoL"     He  thus  made  reply : 
"  PhiloBophy,  to  an  attentive  ear. 
Clearly  points  out,  not  in  one  pnrt  atone, 
How  imitative  Nature  takes  her  course 
From  the  celestial  mind,  and  from  Its  art ; 
And  whore  her  laws*  the  Stagirite  unfolds. 


!, 


10&-121.  H£LL,  CAim)  XI.  107 

Not  many  leaves  scanned  o'er,  observing  well 
Thou  shalt  discover,  that  your  art  on  her 
Obsequious  follows,  as  the  learner  treads 
In  his  instructor's  step ;  so  that  your  art 
Deserves  the  name  of  second  in  descent' 
From  God.     These  two,  if  thou  recall  to  mind 
Creation's  holy  book,^  from  the  beginning 
Were  the  right  source  of  life  and  excellence 
To  human  kind.    But  in  another  path 
The  usurer  walks ;  and  Nature  in  herself 
And  in  her  follower  thus  he  sets  at  naught, 
Placing  elsewhere  his  hope.'     But  follow  now 
My  steps  on  forward  journey  bent ;  for  now 
The  Pisces  play  with  undulating  glance 
Along  the  horizon,  and  the  Waiu^  lies  all 
O'er  the  north-west ;  and  onward  there  a  space 
Is  our  steep  passage  down  the  rocky  height." 


r ./-»/%/  \^  ^',^\.  w. ".  N  • 


CANTO   XII. 


ARGUMENT. 

Descending  by  a  very  rugged  way  into  the  seventh  circle, 
where  the  violent  are  punished,  Dante  and  hi.s  lender  find 
it  guarded  by  the  Minotaur;  whose  fury  being  |)acifi<>d  by 
Virgil,  they  step  downwards  from  crag  to  rrng  ;  till,  draw- 
ing near  to  the  bottom,  they  descry  a  river  of  bl»MMl,  wherein 
are  tonnented  such  as  have  coiniuittcd  violence  against 


I'arte  uniana 


Altro  non  e  da  dir  cli*  un  dolce  spronc, 
Un  correger  soave,  un  pio  sostegno, 
Uno  esperto  imitar,  comporre  accorto 
Un  sollccito  attar  con  studio  e'ngegno 
La  cagion  natural,  V  efietto,  e  M  opra. 

*  Second  in  descent.] 

Si  che  vostr*  arte  a  Dio  quasi  ii  nipotc. 
So  Frezzi : — 

Giustizia  fu  da  cielo,  e  di  Dio  ^  figlia, 
E  ogni  bona  leggc  a  Dio  e  nipote. 

77  Quadrir.,  lib.  iv.  cap.  2. 
9  Creation' 8  holy  book.]  Genesis,  c.  il.  v.  15:  "  And  the  I^ord 
God  took  the  man,  and  put  him  into  the  garden  of  Eden,  to 
dress  it,  and  to  Iceep  it."     And,  Genesis,  c.  iii.  v.  19 :  "  In  the 
sweat  of  thy  face  shalt  thou  eat  bread." 

8  Placing  elsewhere  his  hope.]  The  usurer,  trusting  in  the 
produce  of  his  wealth  lent  out  on  usury,  despises  nature  di- 
rectly, because  he  does  not  avail  himself  of  her  means  for 
maintaining  or  enriching  himself;  and  indirectly,  because  he 
does  not  avail  himself  of  the  means  which  art,  the  follower 
and  imitator  of  nature,  would  afford  him  for  the  same  pur- 
poses. 

*  The  Wain.]  The  constellation  Bootes,  or  Charles's  Wain. 


IhBlt  nBiihbr 
Ibsbloidliki 


THE  ViaiON. 

Al  Ihaim,  whim  ttwy  id 


uuev  Df  tb^  band  oppr 
0  AK^p,  Vii^l  prcv^U  A 


The  place,  where  to  descend  tlie  precipice 
Wb  eame,  was  rouBh  as  Alp ;  and  on  its  verge 
Such  object  lay,  as  every  eye  would  shnu. 

As  is  that  ruin,  wliich  Adics's  Ktreaiu' 
On  this  aide  Treuto  struck,  sliouldering  the  wave. 
Or  looBed  by  earthquake  or  for  lack  of  prop ; 
Far  from  the  luoniitain's  BUtnmLt,  whence  it  moved 
To  Iha  low  level,  so  Itia  headlong  rock 
Is  shiver'd,  that  some  passage"  it  might  give 
To  him  who  from  above  would  pass ;  b'bq  BDch 
Into  the  chasm  was  ttiat  descent :  and  thera 
At  point  of  the  disparted  ridge  lay  stietch'd 
The  infamy  of  Crete,*  detested  brood 
Of  the  feign'd  heifer :'  and  at  sight  of  ih 
It  guaw'd  itself,  aa  one  with  rage  distract     [deem'aL   ] 
To   him   my   guide   exclaim'd:     "  Perchanoe    " 
T)ie  King  of  Athens'  here,  who,  in  the  world 


pavaage-']  LoD>bftrdl  erronenqBlf,  I  think,  am 
'  "  ntcimti  v\K"  *''  DO  paBnage ;"  bi  whkh  nafte  ' 
:^r(aiii]yMniietlme9iuBd  byBomB  old  wrilerfl.    H 


"Thli  la  bi  ifslHy."  olMnrvM  Mr.  Donca,  "  no  mlapplln- 

Bnd  m  II  In  nUen  used  In  Ibe  Bible.    Bhakipean  mlalit  luve 
fmmilDuSe  Theseus  In  the  Book  nf  Troy,  or'-  "^-'- — ■■'-■- 


1 


ff 


I! 


18-44.  HELL,  Canto  XIL  IQQ 

Above,  thy  death  contrived.     Monster !  avaunt ! 
He  comes  not  tutor'd  by  thy  mater's  art,* 
Bnt  to  behold  your  torments  is  ho  come. 

Like  to  a  bidi,'  that  with  impetuous  spring  ! 

Darts,  at  the  moment  when  the  fatal  blow  ' 

Hath  struck  him,  but  unable  to  proceed  I 

Plunges  on  either  side  ;  so  saw  I  plunge  ! : 

The  Minotaur;  whereat  the  sago  exclaim'd:  I' 

"  Run  to  the  passage !  while  he  storms,  'tis  well  j 

That  thou  descend."     Thus  down  our  road  we  took  | 

Through  those  dilapidated  crags,  that  oft  I 

Moved  underneath  my  feet,  to  weight'  like  theirs  ! 

Unused.     I  pondering  went,  and  thus  he  spake :  ]■ 

"  Perhaps  thy  thoughts  are  of  this  ruin'd  steep. 
Guarded  by  the  brute  violence,  which  I 
Have  vanquish'd  now.    Know  then,  that  when  I  erst 
Hither  descended  to  the  nether  hell. 
This  rock  was  not  yet  fallen.     But  past  doubt, 
(If  well  I  mark)  not  long  ere  He  arrived,* 
Who  carried  off  from  Dis  the  mighty  spoil 
Of  the  highest  circle,  then  through  all  its  bounds 
Such  trembling  seized  the  deep  concave  and  foul,  j 

I  thought  the  universe  was  thrill'd  with  love. 
Whereby,  there  are  who  deem,  the  world  hath  oft 
Been  into  chaos  tum'd  -}  and  in  that  point. 
Here,  and  elsewhere,  that  old  rock  toppled  down. 
But  fix  thine  eyes  beneath :  the  river  of  blood" 

1  !7%y  aiater's  art.]    Ariadne. 

*  Like  to  a  bull.] 

*Si,i  a*  Btuv  6^vv  ^b>v  iri\cKvv  at^^tos  <ii'^p, 
Kdxpas  i^dniOev  Ktpd<av  fiods  iypai^oio, 
^Iva  rdfiri  Sici  iraaavy  6  Se  irpodopCjv  iptirijaiv. 

Homer,  Jl.,  1.  xvii.  522. 

As  when  some  vig'roos  yonth  with  sharpcn'd  axe 
A  pastured  bulioclc  smites  behind  tho  horns, 
And  hews  the  muscle  through ;  he  at  the  stroke 
Springs  forth  and  falls.  Cotcper^s  Traruilation. 

*  Totoeiffht.] 

Incumbent  on  the  dusky  air 

That  felt  unusual  weight.  Milton,  P.  /,.,  b.  1.  227. 

*  He  arrived.]  Our  Saviour,  who,  according  to  Dante, 
when  he  ascended  from  hell,  carried  with  him  the  souls  of 
the  Patriarchs,  and  of  other  just  men,  out  of  the  first  circle. 
See  Canto  iv. 

^  Been  into  chaos  turned.]  This  opinion  is  attributed  to 
Empedocles. 

*  The  river  of  Mood.]  Deinde  vidi  locum  (Qu.  lacum  *?) 
magniun  totum,  nt  mihi  videbatur,  plenum  sanguine.  Sed 
dixit  mihi  Apostolus,  sed  non  sanguis,  sed  ignis  est  ad  coiv- 

10 


Who  hi 


THE  VISION. 
len,  in  Cho  which  all  thme  aro  itsep'd. 
'6  liy  violenoo  bijurod."     O  blind  luM! 
(>  foalinh  wmth :  who  bo  doBt  goad  US  DD 
In  the  brief  life,  and  iu  the  eternal  then 
ThuB  miBerably  o'oiwhohn  us.     I  beheld 
An  ample  foss,  that  in  a.  bow  was  benl. 
As  cireling  all  the  plain ;  for  so  my  guide 
Had  told.     Between  it  and  the  mmpart'a  bsae, 
On  trail  ran  Centaim,  with  keen  airowu  Krm'd, 
As  Id  the  chose  they  on  the  eartli  were  wonL 

At  Bcehtg  UB  descend  they  each  one  stood ; 
And  issuing  from  tlie  troop,  three  sped  with  bows 
And  missile  weupous  cliosen  Gnt ;  of  whom 
One  cried  from  far  :  "  Say,  to  whut  pain  ye  coma 
Coudetmi'd,  who  down  this  steep  have  joumey'd. 
[Speak 
From  wlieiice  ye  stand,  or  else  the  bow  I  draw." 

To  whom  my  guide:  "OuJ  aiiBw        '    "  ' 
To  Chiron,  (here,  when  nearer  liim 
111  WKS  ttiy  mind,  thus  ever  quick  a 
Tlien  me  lie  toucli'd,  and  Bpake :  " 
Who  for  the  fair  Delanira  died, 
And  wrought  himself  revenge'  for  bia  own  fate. 
He  iu  the  nudst,  lliat  on  bis  brenst  looks  down. 
Is  the  great  Chiron  who  Achilles  nursed ; 
Tliut  otiier,  Pholus,  prone  lo  wrath."    AJound 
The  fom  these  go  by  tiiousunds,  aiming  shafts 
At  whalsDBver  spirit  dares  emerge' 
From  out  the  blood,  more  than  hie  guilt  allowa. 

We  to  those  beasts,  that  rapid  strode  along, 
Drew  near;  when  Chiron  look  an  arrow  forth. 
And  with  the  notch  push'd  back  his  shaggy  beard 
To  the  cheek-bone,  then,  his  great  mouui  to  view 


vot^ht  himstif  retitiigi.\  Nesfliu.  whsQ  dytnf  by 
If  Herculea,  chnrged  Deianlm  la  ptsMrie  iha  gore 
round:  fol  ilmdf  tbe  a&cUoiu  orHsrtuIeiihoald 
fl  lie  entrnn^wd  from  her,  II  would  pet  as  a  ehann, 


HELL.  C 

hia  fellDwa  th 
ye  oware,  that 


jiULfl  hehind 
I  what  ho  louchea  (     The  feet  of  the  dead 
Are  not  BU  wout."     My  trnsty  giiido,  who  now 
Stood  near  hie  breaBl,  where  tho  two  natures  join. 
Thus  made  reply :  "  He  ia  indeed  aliva, 
And  solitary  h 


a  the  gloomy  vi 


mduced 


By  Btriot  neeeaaity,  not  hy  delight. 
She  left  her  joyful  harprnga  in  Iho  aky, 
Wlio  this  new  office  to  my  care  couBigo'd. 
Ho  a  no  mbber,  no  dark  apiril  I. 
Bill  by  thai  virtue,  which  empowetB  my  step 
To  tread  »o  wild  a  path,  gmut  us,  I  pray, 
One  of  thy  band,  whom  wo  may  trust  aecure 
Who  to  the  ford  may  lead  ua,  and  convey 
Across,  him  mounted  on  hia  back  ;  for  bo 
la  not  &  apirit  that  may  walk  the  air" 

Then  on  his  right  breast  turning.  Chiton  thus 
To  Ncsana"  apako  :  •'  RalmTi,  aud  be  tbcir  guide. 
And  if  ye  chanco  to  crosa  uunlhec  troop, 
Command  them  keep  aloof."     Onward  we  mored. 
The  faithful  eacort  by  our  side,  along 
The  border  of  the  criraaou-aeething  llood, 
Whpnce,  from  Iboae  alecp'd  within,  loud  shrieks  arone. 

Some  there  I  mark'd,  as  higfi  as  to  tlieh  brow 
ImmerBed,  of  whom  the  mighty  Ceolaur  thtia: 
"Theaa  are  tba  aoula  of  tyranla,  who  were  given 
To  blood  and  rapme.     Here  [hey  wail  aloud 
Their  mcrcilcaa  wronga.     Here  Alexander  dwells, 
And  DionysiuH  feU,  who  many  a.  year 
Of  wo  wrought  for  fau  Siedy.     That  brow, 
Whereon  the  hair  ao  jetty  cluatecing  hanga, 


Kenu  adit  toojoiirisquf  vj^ 
III  Orid'i  aolhurlty  was  ^ 

Uiiddii ■    ■ 


112                        THE  VISION.                   IlO-IflS-^^* 

Is  Aizoiino;'  that  wilh  flajcn  locka 

1                  Ohtzin'  of  EbIc,  in  the  world  dcslroy'd 

By  hia  fuul  Btep.«on."     To  the  bald  ravorod 

I  [nm"d  me  round,  and  thus  ha  apake :  "  Lei  liiui 

I                 Bb  lo  thee  now  firet  leader,  me  but  neit 

1                 To  him  in  rank."     Than  farther  on  a  space 

The  Cenlanr  paused,  near  aome,  who  at  the  throat 

Wore  ejitant  &om  the  waye  ;  and,  showing  ae 

A  ajririt  hy  itself  apart  retired, 

Eiclaim'd:  '•  He"  in  God'a  hoBom  Bmote  the  heart. 

Which  yet  is  hoaor'd  on  the  bank  of  Thames." 

A  race  I  nert  espied  who  held  Ihe  head. 

And  even  all  the  hnat,  above  the  atrBam. 

Midst  these  I  many  a  fuee  remember-d  well. 

Thus  shallow  more  and  mora  the  hlood  became. 

So  that  at  last  it  but  imTiroed  the  feat ; 

Ajid  there  our  pssaago  lay  athwart  Ihe  foes. 

■  JiinfR^.i    AzioUoa.  or  EzzDlinn  dl  Raduina,  »  mini 

miel  tyrant  in  ihe  Marca  Trtrtguma.  Lord  of  Padafl,  Vlcen 

s..  Voranii,  •md  BriMcts.  whn  dieii  in  12M.    HIa  alnKlIiei. 

fbmi  the  snhjodl  of  a  Uilln  Inigedy,  callert  EcwriiiJi.  by  Al- 

lifHInD  MiKsalo,  uf  Padua,  Ihe  runloidpciniiy  of  DanlB,  snii 

the  ^Khsefomlo  ii.'  °Beral,  CM.  Inn.,  IIM.  U.  c.  '..v.  n'x. 

Arlo.10.  Orl.  Fur.,  c  lU.  .t.  33;  und  Tauinil.  Smchk  Kapllm 

''i^mhz"„f  E.U.1    Murqiii.  Qf  FBmiB  Md  nf  Ihe  M«rc« 

d'AnCQDB.  WM  uiurdBfcd  Uy  hli  own  >db    whom,  for  thai 

nwit  niinanirHl  act.  Danle  calls  hli  atep-son)  Ibr  Ihe  ute  of 

Ori.  ™"c!  urnL  as.    He  died  in  liM.  mmirdlne  <o  G'h^l 

AnL  of  IhE  Hduh  or  Bruniwick,  PoiUi.  Works,  t.  11.  4la. 

•  Hi.]    ■■  HeDile,  the  bra  Uiir  of  Ihls  Edmund,  and  tan  la 

Ibe  fiirB^  Hub  of  Almnine  (RiehanJ,  brothM  oTHi-ury  III. 
of  England.)  nsTic  iBtnrnEd  from  Affrike.  wharu  hf  had  hB«i 

wLIh  Prince  Rdwi.rd,  wm  smm  ni  Vllarbo  in  IWy  (whllher 

he  WM  come  flbciui  hinlnoss  whl.:h  he  had  lo  do  wKh  IbB 

Pope)  by  Ihe  hand  of  Guy  tie  Moniroit,  Ibe  wn  of  Bhnoo  do 

dealb.    Tho  mmhCTw'Mcomniiiild  afore  Iha  high  almr.M 

the  BameHenile  koecled  (here  lo  hear  dlilno  gerrloe."  A.D.        -^J 

Ub.  TU.c.40,wh™  111.  «ld  "thai  lieheanofBaarr^     ^M 

tD\K"  In  Ibe  leit  may  mean,  noL  Ibsl  "Ibe  taevi  was  HiB    ^^H 

hoaoied,"  bai  thai  it  was  pui  inla  a  ]wrfbiated  cup  In  ordm       ^H 

Iballbe  blood  drUnnns  from  it  miebl  elcila  Ifaa  spKlBlon  In        ^^B 

ravecEO.    This  19  surely  fiolinproljable.                                              ^H 

eieurot'nrlca.'uconledi'MuafoiIe                                    ^H 

'                                                        J 

Ih           ^^1 

,  I 


1S7-140.  HELL,  Canto  XIIL  113 

«  Ab  ever  on  this  side  the  boUing  wave 
Thou  seeet  diminishing,"  the  Centaur  said, 
"  So  on  the  other,  be  thou  well  assured. 
It  lower  still  and  lower  sinks  its  bed. 
Till  in  that  part  it  re-uniting  join, 
"Where  'tis  the  lot  of  tyranny  to  mourn. 
There  Heaven's  stem  justice  la>^  chastising  hand 
On  Attila,  who  was  the  scourge  of  earth, 
On  Sextus  and  on  Pyrrhus,'  and  extracts 
Tears  ever  by  the  seething  flood  unlocked 
From  the  Rinieri,  of  Cometo  this, 
Pazzo  the  other  named,'  who  fiird  the  ways 
With  violence  and  war."     This  said,  he  tum'd, 
And  quitting  us,  alone  ropass'd  the  ford. 


CANTO    XIII 


ARGUMENT. 

Still  in  the  seventh  circle,  Dante  enters  its  second  co^lpar^ 
ment,  which  contains  both  those  who  have  done  violeaoe 
on  their  own  persons  and  those  who  have  violently  e<ni- 
snmed  their  goods ;  the  first  changed  into  rough  and  knot- 
ted trees  whereon  the  harpies  bnild  their  nests,  the  latter 
chased  and  torn  by  black  fenule  mastiflb.  Among  the  ibr 
mer,  JE^ero  delle  Vigne  is  one  who  tells  him  the  cause  of 
his  having  committed  suicide,  and  moreover  in  what  man 
ner  the  souls  are  transformed  into  those  trunks.  Of  the 
latter  crew,  he  recognises  I^no,  a  Siennese,  and  (alacomo, 
a  Padnan :  and  lastly,  a  Florentine,  who  had  hung  liinutelf 
from  his  own  roof,  speaks  to  him  of  the  calamities  of  Ills 
countrymen. 

Ere  Nessus  yet  had  reach'd  the  other  bank, 
We  enter'd  on  a  forest,*  where  no  track 
Of  steps  had  worn  a  way.     Not  verdant  there 
The  foliage,  but  of  dusky  hue  ;  not  light 
The  boughs  and  tapering,  but  with  knares  deform'd 
And  matted  thick :  fruits  there  were  none,  but  thorns 


»  On  Sextus  and  on  Pyrrhus.]  Sextus,  either  the  son  of 
Tarquin  the  Proud,  or  of  Pompey  the  Great ;  and  Pyrrhus 
king  of  Epirus. 

« The  Rinieri,  of  Cometo  this, 

Pazzo  the  other  named. ] 

Two  noted  marauders,  by  whose  depredations  the  public 
ways  in  Italy  were  infested.  The  latter  was  of  the  noble 
family  of  Pazzl  in  Florence. 

»  jj  forest.]     Inde   in   allam  vallcm  nimis  terribillorem 
deveni  pienam  subtilissimis  arborlbus  in  modum  hastarum 
sexaginta  brachiorum  longitudinem  habentibus,  quarum  om 
nlum  capita,  ac  si  sudes  acntissima  erant,  et  spinosa.   ^Iberici 
yisio,  $  4. 

8 


THE  VISION. 


ImleBd,  wiih  Veiiam  fill'd.     Less  sharp  then  tfaesi 
Leas  inliinatB  the  brakes,  wherein  abide 
Thorn  onimajg,  thai  lnttB  the  cultured  fields, 
Belwixl  Coroeto  and  Ceoina'a  Btream.' 

Here  the  brale  Haipiea  make  Iheir  nest,  lh> 
Who  from  the  Slrophades"  the  Trojan  band 


Drove  with  dire  boding  of  th 
Broad  are  their  pennoi    '    ' 


'  of  the  human  fo: 

mce,  arm'd  with  talona  keen 

The  teet,  and  the  hngo  belly  fleJgi-d  witli  winga. 

These  ait  and  wail  on  the  dieai  myelic  <^ood. 
Tile  kind  iustnictor  in  theso  —  in  : 

"  Era  Eailher  thou  prw- 

l'  tb'  second  rr< 


..xium  Ihey  might  have  ibbi 
rait  bound  I  Blood.     He,  sa  it  8e 
That  I  had  thought  eo  many  voices  come 
From  some  amid  thoee  thickets  olose  conceal'c 
And  thus  his  speech  resumed :  "  If  Ihou  lop  ol 
A  aingle  twig  from  one  of  those  ill  planta, 
The  thought  thou  haat  conceived  shall  vanish  qnitajj 

Thereat  a  littln  stretching  tbrfh  my  hand. 
From  a  great  wilding  gather'd  I'  a  branch, 
And  Mraighl  the  Eruok  exclaimed  ;  "  Whj  (dnch 

Then,  as  the  dark  blood  trickled  down  iU  i 
These  words  it  added :  "  Wherefore  Icar'st 
la  there  no  touch  of  mercy  in  thy  breast  7 
Meu  once  were  we,  that  now  are  rooted  ben 


'  coudlry.  bboundLDff  Ln  deei,  geots,  a 
I  city  on  llie  aanie  coast.  Id  the  pal 
u.]    See  VI^.£n.,Llb.  lU.S 


VlrgtnBl  V, 
Pniluviei, 


n£Ll^  Curm  SHI. 
Tfay  faonil  migbt  well  bave  epand  us,  had  we  been 
Tbe  bouIb  of  aerpeuts."    As  a  liruiid  ytt  ^reen, 
That  burning  at  one  end  from  llie  otiier  aendii 
A  gTDBning  sound,  and  tueaea  villi  tlie  wind 
Tliat  forces  out  its  way,  so  burst  at  once 
Forth  froin  the  broken  splinter  words  and  blood. 

I,  letting  fall  the  bongh,  ramain'd  as  ono 
Assaird  by  terror  ^  and  the  sage  replied  : 
"  If  be,  O  Injured  spirit  1  conld  have  believed 
What  he  batb  Been  but  in  my  verse  described,' 
He  never  against  thee  had  stretch'd  his  hand- 
But  1,  because  the  thing  lurpass'd  beUef, 
Prompted  him  lo  this  deed,  which  even  now 
Myself  1  rue.     But  tell  me,  who  thou  wast ; 
That,  for  this  wrong  (a  do  Ibec  some  amends, 
In  (he  upper  world  (for  thither  to  return 
Is  eranted  him)  thy  fame  he  may  revive." 
"  That  pleasant  word  of  thine,"*  the  trunk  replied, 
"  Halh  so  mvoigled  me,  that  1  from  speech 
Cannot  tefrain,  wherein  if  1  indulge 
A  little  longer,  in  the  snare  detain'd. 
Count  it  not  grievous.     I  it  was,'  who  held 


bot  have  itretcbed  forth  tiJA  hand  HgnlDBi  1h«.'^  But  I  lun 
of  DpinloD  that  Danle  ninbes  Vlr^l  aIIoAb  io  hl«  liwa  story  of 
Polydonu,  in  lbs  ihlrd  botA  of  Ihe  £neld. 

Die  to  BpenlEbf  hDldlDBlortb  bd  graUf^lr^  on  ex^clH-lkin.  Let 

foa  have  tpread  for  lua.  ao  ai  to  be  9Diiiewtia.i  prolii  La  my 

*  I  it  vaf.]  Plero  detleVi^ae,  a  aaHvD  oT  Capua,  who 
Aam  a  low  conllUnn  nUsd  bioiuir,  bf  bli  FlcHiDcnai  and 
l((M  knowledie.  (n  Ihe  nfflce  of  CtuincaUor  to  Ihe  EmperDir 


ha  wai  cnielly  coadEmqed,  h; 

reign,  » 

Um  nil  eyn :  HBd  being  diive 
oat  U*  Inbia  ii(<Uiun 'the  wall 

1  todeBpa 

byh 

by 

^B^hlllR 

iUlSU. 

Bolb  Fnterick  and  Fiero  delle 

Vlgne  Bioi 

K«Hl 

BHUan  dW.ol.  whitb  are  m,* 

"zE-^ 

lalh 

<aiS»^Sta'<i^'iSi^^. 

«rtT 

nl,  pnb- 

SStonrm.""""""'^' 

the  a 

nlMirg., 

^ 
^^^ 

lis  THE  VlfflON.  61-101. 

Both  keys  to  FrederiFk'B  heart,  and  (urn'd  the  wards, 
Opening  and  shnlting,  with  a  ikiil  so  sweel, 
Thdt  bPHides  mo,  into  his  inmost  brenst 
Scarce  atiy  othet  could  admittance  £nd. 
The  faitli  I  bora  lo  my  high  charge  was  >uph, 
II  coat  me  the  life-blood  that  warm'd  my  wins. 
The  harlot,'  who  ne'er  tum'd  her  gloating  eyee 
From  Cssot'b  household,  common  yico  and  pest 
Of  ooiirtB,  'gahiBt  me  inU  omed  (he  minds  of  all ; 
And  to  AuguBtUB  they  bo  spread  the  Same, 
Th4it  my  glad  honors  changed  tn  ''  'er  woes. 
My  soul,  disdainful  and  dif  '  ghl 

Refugu  in  death  frm--.  -  ame, 

JuBl  UB  I  WTIB  I      -. 

By  llie  -  L  bwbbt, 

T"-  ,1  .,gelord, 

.    .-.,'.  I    :  ,  und  of  you. 
■       -lii  ...deed  return. 
■  _.  wrong  my  memory,  that  lies 
_.odirale  under  envy's  cruel  blow." 
First  somewhat  jtausiiig,  till  the  moumfol  words 
Weje  ended,  then  tu  me  [he  bard  begom; 
"  Lose  not  llic  time  ;  but  apeak,  and  of  him  aak, 
If  more  thou  «ai,  to  learn."     Whence  I  replied  : 

Have  I  lo  oflk,  such  ^ty  is  at  my  heart." 

He  tliiia  reaumcd  :  "  So  may  ho  do  for  thee 
Freely  what  thou  ontrealeat,  as  Ihou  yet 
Be  pleased,  imprison'd  spurit !  lo  declare. 
How  in  llieae  gnarled  joints  the  »ul  is  tied  ; 
And  whether  any  over  from  such  frame 
Be  looseu'd,  if  thou  oansl,  that  also  1«11." 

Tliereat  tho  trunk  bren  thed  hard,  and  the  wind  soon 
Changed  into  sounds  articulate  like  these  : 
"  Briefly  ye  shall  be  answor'd.     When  departs 
The  fierce  soul  from  the  body,  by  itself 
Thence  torn  aannder,  to  tho  seventh  gulf 
By  Minoe  doom'd,  into  tlie  wood  it  falls. 
No  place  Bsaign'd,  but  wheresoever  chance 
Burls  it ;  there  eproutiDg,  aa  a  grain  of  spelt, 


LIhet  niffbt  ae  dsy 


i 


103-135.  HELL,  Canto  XIII.  117 

It  rises  to  a  sapling,  groynng  thence 

A  savage  plant.     The  Harpies,  on  its  leaves 

Then  feeding,  cause  both  pain,  and  for  the  pain 

A  vent  to  grief.     We,  as  the  rest,  shall  come 

For  our  own  spoils,  yet  not  so  that  with  them 

We  may  again  be  clad  ;  for  what  a  man 

Takes  from  himself  it  is  not  just  he  have. 

Here  we  perforce  shall  drag  them  ;  and  throughout 

The  dismal  glade  our  bodies  shall  be  hung, 

Each  on  the  wild  thorn  of  his  wretched  shade." 

Attentive  yet  to  listen  to  the  trunk 
We  stood,  expecting  farther  speech,  when  us 
A  noise  surprised  ;  as  when  a  man  perceives 
The  wild  boar  and  the  hunt  approach  his  place 
Of  station'd  watch,  who  of  the  beasts  and  boughs 
Loud  rustling  round  him  hears.    And  lo !  there  came 
Two  naked,  torn  with  briers,  in  headlong  flight, 
That  they  before  them  broke  each  fan  o  th'  wood.* 
"  Haste  now,"  the  foremost  cried,  "  now  haste  thee, 
The  other,  as  seem'd,  impatient  of  delay,       [death  !" 
Exclaiming,  "  Lano  !"  not  so  bent  ^or  speed 
Thy  sinews,  in  the  lists  of  Toppo's  field." 
And  then,  for  that  perchance  no  longer  breath 
Sufficed  him,  of  himself  and  of  a  bush 
One  group  he  made.     Behind  them  was  the  wood 
Full  of  black  female  mastifii,  gaunt  and  fleet, 
As  greyhounds  that  have  newly  slipped  the  leash. 
On  him,  who  squatted  down,  they  stuck  their  fangs, 
And  having  rent  him  piecemeal,  bore  away 
The  tortured  limbs.     My  guide  then  seized  my  hand. 
And  led  me  to  the  thicket,  which  in  vain 
Mouru'd  through  its  bleeding  wounds :  "  O  Giacomo 
Of  Sant'  Andrea  !'  what  avails  it  thee," 
It  cried,  "  that  of  me  thou  hast  made  thy  screen  1 

*  Each  fan  o'  th*  wood.]    Hence  perhaps  Milton : 

Leaves  and  fuming  rills,  Aurora's  fan.      P.  Z..,  h.  v.  6. 

Some   have  translated  "  rosta,"   "  impediment,"   instead  of 
"fan." 

a  Lano.\  Lano,  a  Siennesc,  who,  being  reduced  by  prodi- 
gality to  a  state  of  extreme  want,  found  his  existence  no  longer 
sup|)ortable ;  and  having  been  sent  by  his  countrymen  on  a 
military  expedition  to  assist  the  Florentines  against  the  Are- 
tini,  took  that  opportunity  ofexi)osing  himself  to  certain  death, 
in  the  engagement  which  took  place  at  Toppo  near  Arezzo 
See  G.  Villani,  Hist.,  lib.  7,  c.  cxix. 

• O  Giacomo 

Of  SanV  .Andrea !]  Jacopo  da  Sant'  Andrea,  a  Paduan, 
who,  having  wasted  his  property  in  the  most  wanton  acts  of 
profusion,  killed  himself  in  despair. 


ne 


THE  VISION, 


For  Ihy  ill  life,  wlmt  blame  on  me  racoila !" 
Wlisn  o'er  it  h-  hud  pauseJ,  my  maater  s 
"  Say  who  wast  thou,  tiitit  ut  to  many  poini 
BreuthoBt  out  with  blow!  thy  lamentable  apeeclil' 

He  nngwer'd ;  "  O  ye  tfiiita  '.  arrived  in  lime 
To  apy  Iho  shameful  havoc  that  from  me 
My  leaves  hath  sevpr'd  thus,  galhei  them  up, 
And  Bt  the  foot  of  their  sad  paretit-tree 
Carefully  lay  them.     In  that  city'  I  dwell. 
Who  far  the  Bapliat  her  fiiat  patron  changed. 
Whence  ho  for  this  ahull  ocase  not  with  his  ait 
To  work  her  wo  ;  and  if  thore  still  rerauin'd  nol 
On  Anio'a  pnaaa^  some  faint  glimpse  of  him, 
ThoBs  citiiona,  wlio  rear'd  oneo  more  her  walb 
L'pod  the  ashes  left  by  Attila, 
Had  lahor'd  without  profit  of  their  toil. 
I  slung  the  fatal  nooie'  from  my  own  roof." 

CANTO   XIV. 
AUGUMENT. 


4 
I 


Cunnd  CapaneuB, 


having    jounieyed  a   ILI 

'm'°-, 

vonU,  Ihoy  meet   wtih  & 

^^rgll  speKks  la  ma  PoBi 

naodi  wlihln 

Mimnt  Ida 

Un 

nn  i 

bablDuil  of  Flo 

fiir  which  roKsno  the  vtagwux  oT  [be 

.« 

r 


HELL,  Can™  XIV. 


^ihcS 


ii>ilrt> 


rarnni 


Soon  bb  tbe  chunty  of  native  land 
WiDiight  in  m^  boaom,  I  the  scaller'd  leBvea 
CoUecled,  and  la  him  restored,  who  aow 
Was  hoarse  with  utterance.     To  Ibe  limit  theaca 
We  came,  wbich  from  tlje  third  tbe  second  miind 
DivideB,  and  where  of  juMice  is  display'd 
Cantrir&nce  borrible.     TbingE  then  drat  seen 
Cleorlier  lo  manifest,  I  tell  bow  next 
A  plam  we  reacb'd,  [bat  from  its  steril  bed 
Each  plant  lepeU'd.  I'be  moumfnl  wood  waves  rouni 
Its  garland  on  i  "    ' ' 


Then 


y  edge, 


Our  steps  we  staVd.     It  was  on  area 

Of  arid  sand  and' thick,  resembling  most 

Tbe  BoU  that  erst  by  Cato's  foot'  was  trod.       [fear'd 

Vengeaoce  of  Heaven  :  Oh;  how sbouldst  Ihon be 
By  all,  who  read  what  here  mine  eyes  beheld. 

Of  naked  spirils  many  a  floek  I  saw, 
All  weeping  pcteoualy,  lo  diflerent  laws 
Subjected  ;  for  on  the  Bartli  some  lay  supine. 
Some  crouching  oloae  were  seated,  others  paced 
Inefflsatilly  aroiiud  ;  tlio  latter  tribe 
More  numeioDB,  those  fewer  who  beneath 
The  tonnent  lay,  but  louder  in  theh-  grief. 

O'er  all  the  sand  fell  riowiy  wafting  down 
Dilated  floJies  of  fire,'  as  flakes  of  snow 
On  Alpine  summit,  when  tlie  wind  is  hunh'd. 
Aa,  in  the  torrid  Indiaa  cjime,'  the  non 
Of  Ammon  saw,  upon  hia  warrior  band 
Deaceni^ug,  solid  flames,  that  to  the  ground 
Comedown  ;  whence  he  bethought  htm  with  his  troop 
To  ttample  on  the  soil ;  for  easier  thus 
The  vapor  was  extuiguish'd,  while  alone ; 
So  fell  the  elemal  fiery  flood,  wherewith 
The  marl  ^ow'd 


ISO 


THE  VISION. 


The  viaiids,  douijly  lo  augmonl  ilia  pain. 
Uneeaniug  was  the  play  af  nrelclied  hands, 
Now  this,  uow  that  way  elanctng,  to  shake  ol 
The  heat,  EtlU  faJUug  (rem.    I  thus  began : 
"  Instructor  I  liiou  who  all  thinge  overoomest. 
Except  the  hardy  demonij  thiit  rush'ii  forth 
I'd  stop  our  entrance  at  tlie  gate,  say  who 
t,  that,  OS  seems,  heeds  not 


.B  by  t( 


Straight  he  himself,  who  was  aware  I  aai 
My  guide  ofhim,  exclaim'd:  '>  Such  as  I  w 
When  hying,  dead  such  now  I  am.     If  JoTf 
Wffory  his  workman  out,  from  whom  in  iro 
He  anatcU'd  the  lightnings,  that  al  my  last  doy 
Traiisfis'd  mo  ;  if  the  itst  he  weary  out. 
At  their  block  Bmitby  laboring  by  turns. 
In  Monglbello,'  while  he  crien  aloud, 
'  Help,  help,  good  Mulciber  I'  aa  erat  he  cried 
In  the  Phlegreean  warfare  ;  and  the  bolts 
Launch  he,  full  aiin'd  al  me,  with  all  his  might; 
He  never  should  enjoy  a  sweet  revenge." 

Then  thus  my  ffuide,  in  accent  higher  raisod 
Than  I  before  had  heard  him  :  "  CapaDoua  I 
Thou  ait  more  puniHli'd,  in  that  thlB  thy  pride 
Lives  yet  unquench'd  :  no  torment,  save  ihy  rags, 
Were  lo  Ihy  fury  pain  proportiou'd  tulL" 

Next  tumii^  round  lo  me,  with  mildi 
Ho  Epake  :  "  This  of  the  seven  kings  w 
Who  girt  the  Theban  walls  w" 


ll-H 


HELL,  Cuno  SIV. 


1121 


Tby  Ibol  Id  Ibe  hot  Baud,  but  lo  Ibo  wood 

Keep  ever  close."     Silcnlly  on  ws  paw'd 

To  where  there  giwheB  troin  th'^  forcBt's  twiiud 

A  little  bmok,  whoae  crimsan'd  wnve  yet  lifu 

My  hair  with  horror.     Ae  Ihe  rill,  that  luiu 

From  Bnlicame,'  to  be  portioa'd  onl 

AmoD^  the  smful  women,  bo  ran  this 

Down  through  the  eazid ;  ila  boltora  sjid  each  bank 

Stone-built,  aitd  either  matgin  at  its  side, 

Whereon  1  Btraiffhl  perceived  oar  poBeage  lay. 

■■  Of  all  thai  f  hare  ahown  tboo,  since  that  gate 
We  enter'd  fint,  whose  thnwhold  is  to  aooe 
Jlenied,  nao^t  ebe  so  worthy  oi  regard. 
An  ja  lliia  rireTf  has  thine  eye  diecera'd, 
O'er  which  Ihe  Saming  volley  all  is  qaencb'd." 

So apake  my  guide  ;  and  1  him  thence  beaoq^Lt 
That  having  given  me  appetite  to  know. 
The  food  ho  too  would  give,  that  hunger  craved. 

"  In  midet  of  ocean,"  forthwith  he  began, 
"A  deaolate  conDtry  liee,  whicli  Crete  is  named: 
Under  whose  monarch.'  in  old  times,  the  world 

CaiI'd  Ida,  joyoiia  once  with  leaves  and  sireiuus, 

Deserted  now  like  a  fotbiddeo  thing. 

It  was  (he  Bpat  which  Rhea,  Saturn's  apouss, 

ChoBB  for  the  secret  cradle  of  her  son  ; 

And  better  to  conceal  him,  drown'd  in  shouts 

HIa  mfant  cries.     Withia  Ihe  mount,  upright 

An  ancient  fiarm  there  stands,  and  huB[o,  (hat  turns 

HIa  aboalders  towards  DamiatEi ;  and  at  Rome, 

Aa  ia  his  mirror,  looks.     Of  fin  est  gold 

His  bead'  ia  ahaped,  pure  silver  are  the  breast 


irotieMUIr.  conjec- 

iHnltoQ'i  DMrrtiaeul  niooDg  UiDse  i^ha  freqtumted  kti  bnUis. 
'  Uuder  lekese  huhatA-} 
CredqjKid^cltism  Satania  rege  moratam 

In  S^Iam'a  relim,  n(  Natore'i  early  hlrlh. 
There  wu  a  Ihlag  uUL'd  cbuUcy  nn  enjlh,       Drfdcx. 
'  Sit  imiJ.]  Thta  i>  imlutod  liy  FTbuL,  In  the  Qusdrireglo, 

Ls  lUtqi  gnuide  v)dl  in  un  gmn  pisjio,  Uc. 
"Thif  lmiii!is'i  head  wai  of  Hoc  gold,  bli  bresat  and  hli 

eg.  o    ran.  ee  o         o„„,^  J^Tu.  Si^S). 


122                        TEIE  VISION.  ic 
And  onus,  thmce  to  [bo  ttiiddlu  'a  of  brtua, 
And  downward  &U  beseath  well-l«mper'd  sted 
Save  the  right  foot  of  potter's  day,  on  which 
Than  on  tho  other  more  prect  he  slaadB. 
Eucb  part,  except  Ibe  gold,  b  rent  throngbant : 
And  from  the  li»ure  tears  distil,  wbicb  joined 
PGnetrato  to  that  cave.     They  in  tbeir  ooone, 
ThuH  far  precipiuted  dowa  llie  rock. 
Form  Acheron,  and  Btyii.  and  Phlegethon  ; 
Then  by  this  Btiailen'd  channel  passing  hence 
.hofaU, 


depth 
Form  there  Cocytus,  of  whose  lake  (thyself 
Khali  see  ll)  I  here  ^ve  thee  no  account" 

Then  I  lo  him :  "  If  from  mir  world  this  alnice 
Be  thus  derired  ;  wlierefore  to  lis  but  now 
Appears  it  at  Ihn  edge?"     He  straight  cepbed: 
"  The  place,  tboii  know'at,  is  roimd  ;  and  though  gmat 
Thou  have  abeody  pasa'd,  still  to  the  left  [part 

De«cendiiig  to  the  nctbermoet,  not  yet 
Hast  thou  the  cuiruit  made  of  the  whole  orb. 
Wherefore,  if  anght  of  new  lo  db  appear, 
It  needs  not  bring  up  wonder  in  thy  looks." 

Of  Pblagelbon  and  Lethe  1  for  of  one 
Thou  tell'st  Dot ;  and  the  other,  of  that  fhower, 
Thou  say'at,  is  fonn'fL"     He  aiuwer  thus  return' 
"  Doubtless  thy  questions  all  well  pleased  I  boai. 
Yet  tho  red  seething  wave*  might  have  rcsolVl^d 
One  Ihou  proposest.      Lethe  thou  shalt  see. 
But  not  within  this  hollow,  ui  the  place 
Whtlbcr.'  to  lave  themselves,  the  Bfurits  go. 
Whose  blame  hath  been  by  penitence  romoyai" 
Ho  added :  "  Time  is  now  we  quit  the  wood. 
Look  Ihou  my  steps  pursue :  the  margins  give 
Safe  passage,  unimpeded  by  llie  flames ; 
For  over  Ihem  ail  vapor  is  extinct." 

CANTO   XV. 
ARGUMENT. 


1 


I 


>n  Iha  nttacr  lUle  nf  PqiisIoit. 


HKLL,  (iurro  XV.  [. 

r  had  Duncd  nrnnd  lo  look  tu  It,  tbsy  n 


backwuii,  be  hotili  a  dlKoune  which  oecuplei  Lbe  nmali- 
dor  of  Ibis  CiuiUi. 

Okk  of  the  solid  mar^iiB  bears  us  now 
£nvelop'il  in  tim  mist,  Ihat.  from  the  stream 
AriBing,  horeis  o'er,  and  aavea  &om  fire 
Both  piers  aud  water.    As  the  Flemings  rear 
Their  mound,  'twixt  Gheut  and  Bruges,  lo  cliase  back 
The  ocean,  fearing  his  tumultuauB  tide 
That  drives  toward  Ihem ;  or  the  Faduana  theirs 
Along  the  fireata,  to  defend  their  towiu 
And  castles,  ere  the  genial  warmth  be  fell 
On  ChiarentiiDB'B'  top  ;  sach  were  the  mounds, 
So  framed,  though  not  in  height  or  bulk  to  these 
Made  equal,  by  the  master,  whosoe'er 
He  was,  that  raised  them  here.     We  finm  the  wood 
Were  now  so  far  removed,  that  tiirning  round 
I  might  not  have  disRem'd  it,  when  we  met 
A  troop  of  spiritfi,  who  came  beside  the  jHor. 

They  each  one  eyed  ub,  aa  at  eventide 
One  eyes  BUDther  under  a  new  Tnoen ; 
And  toward  us  sharpen'd  their  eight,  as  keen 
As  an  old  tailor  at  his  needle's  eye.' 

Thus  narrowly  explored  by  all  the  tribe, 
I  WHS  agnized  of  one,  who  by  the  skirt 
Canghl  me,  snd  cried, "  What  wonder  have  we  here  ?" 

Azid  I,  when  ho  to  me  outslrctch'd  hia  Eirm, 
Intently  fin'd  my  ken  on  his  paroh'd  looks, 
That,  although  smiroh'd  with  fire,  they  hinder'd  not 
Bnt  I  remerabcr'd  him  ;  and  towards  his  face 
My  hand  inclining,  anawer'd,  "  Ser  Brunetto  I' 


i 


HELL,  Canto  XV.  IS5 

Latini  bat  a  little  space  with  thee 

Tnm  back,  and  leave  his  fellows  to  proceed." 

If  of  art  I  anght  could  ken, 
Wen  behooved  me  ose  it  then. 
More  I  lookM,  the  more  f  deem'd 
That  it  wild  and  desert  seem'd. 
Not  a  road  was  there  in  sight. 
Not  a  honse,  and  not  a  w^t ; 
Not  a  bird,  and  not  a  brute, 
Not  a  rill,  and  not  a  root ; 
Not  an  emmet,  not  a  fly. 
Not  a  thing  I  mote  descry. 
Sore  I  doubted  therewithal 
Whether  death  would  me  befall : 
Nor  was  wonder,  for  around 
Full  three  hundred  miles  of  ground 
Right  across  on  every  side 
Lay  the  desert  bare  and  wide 

— and  proceeds  on  his  way,  under  the  protection  of  a  banner 
with  which  Nature  had  furnished  him,  till  on  the  third  ^y 
he  finds  himself  in  a  pleasant  champain,  where  are  aaaem- 
bied  many  emperors,  kings,  and  sages : 

Un  gran  pifuio  giocondo 
Lo  piu  gajo  del  mondo 
E  lo  piu  degnitoso. 

Wide  and  far  the  champain  lay. 
None  in  ail  the  earth  so  gay. 

It  is  the  habitation  of  Virtue  and  her  daughters,  the  four 
Cardinal  Virtues.  Here  Brunetto  sees  also  Courtesy,  Bounty, 
Loyalty,  and  Prowess,  and  hears  the  instructions  they  g^ve 
to  a  knight,  which  occupy  about  a  fourth  part  of  the  poem.  I 

Leaving  this  territory,  he  passes  over  vuleys,  mountains,  I 

woods,  forests,  and  bridges,  till  he  arrives  in  a  b(Bautif\il  val-  I 

ley  covered  i;vith  flowers  on  all  sides,  and  the  richest  in  Uie  ! 

world ;  but  which  was  continually  shifting  its  appearance 
from  a  round  figure  to  a  square,  from  obscurity  to  light,  and  ; 

from  populousness  to  solitude.  This  Is  the  region  of  Pleas- 
ure, or  Cupid,  who  is  accompanied  by  four  ladies.  Love, 
Hope,  Fear,  and  Desire.  In  one  part  of  it  he  meets  with 
Ovid,  and  is  instructed  by  him  how  to  conquer  the  passion 
of  love,  and  to  escape  from  that  place.  After  his  escape,  he 
makes  his  confession  to  a  friar,  and  then  returns  to  the 
forest  of  visions ;  and,  ascending  a  mountain,  meets  with 
Ptolemy,  a  venerable  old  man.  Here  Uie  narrative  breaks 
off*.  The  poem  ends,  as  it  began,  with  an  address  to  Rustico 
di  Filippo,  on  whom  hejavishes  every  sort  of  praise. 

It  has  been  ol)servcd,  that  Etemte  derived  the  idea  of  open- 
ing his  poem  by  describing  himself  as  lost  in  a  wood,  from 
the  Tesoretto  of  his  master.  I  know  not  whether  it  has  been 
remarked,  that  the  crime  of  usury  is  branded  by  both  these 
poets  as  offensive  to  God  and  Nature  :— 

Un  altro,  che  non  cura 
Di  Dio  ne  di  Natura, 
Si  diventa  usuriere. 

One,  that  holdeth  not  in  mind 
Ijaw  of  God  or  Nature's  kind, 
Taketh  bim  to  usury. 


THE  VISIOS. 

rt'iilied:  "  Much  a: 
,  _  ise ;  and  if  Uiau  be 
That  I  here  eeat  tiiH  with  thee,  I  c< 
Ilia  leave,  with  whom  I  journey,  firet  oWain'd," 

"  O  Boa  !"  said  hn,  "  whoever  of  tlua  throng 
One  instant  stops,  lies  then  B  liundred  years. 
No  fun  to  ventilate  him,  when  (he  fire 
Smites  sorest.     Pass  thou  therefore  ou.     I  cIobb 
Will  at  thy  garments  walk,  and  then  rejoin 
My  Iruop,  who  go  mourning  thrir  endle»  doom." 

I  dared  not  from  the  path  descend  lu  tread 
On  equal  grouud  with  him,  but  held  my  head 
Bent  down,  as  one  who  walke  in  reverent  guiie- 

"  What  chance  or  destiny,"  thus  he  hegan, 
"  Ere  the  last  day,  conducts  thee  here  below? 
And  who  b  this  that  shows  to  Ihee  the  way  Y' 

"  There  up  aloft,"  I  answer'd,  "  in  the  life 
Serene,  I  wander'd  ui  a  valley  lost. 
Before  mine  age'  had  to  its  fulneas  reach'd. 
But  yester-mom  1  left  it :  then  once  more 
Into  that  vale  retaining,  him  1  msl ; 
And  by  this  path  homeward  he  leads  me  hack."* 

"  If  thou,"  ho  answer'd,  "  follow  but  tliy  alar, 
Tliou  cannt  not  misa  at  last  a,  glorious  haven ; 
UulesB  ui  fairer  days  my  judgment  err'd. 
And  if  my  fate  so  early  had  not  chanced, 
Seeing  the  heavens  thus  bannteous  to  thee,  I 
Had  gladly  given  thee  comfort  in  thy  work. 
But  that  angratefnl  and  maUgnant  race, 
Who  m  old  tunes  camo  down  from  Fesole,' 

—or  UiU  IhB  Bin  for  which  Bruneilo  la  ondeDued  by  hh 
puidl  la  menUoned  In  lUi  Tesoreilo  with  cresi  honor.  Bol 
lee  whu  is  mill  on  Ihia  aaltlecl  liy  Penlcail,  D^U  Solnail 
del  Tncenta,  1. 1.  c.  Iv.    Sunla'a  iwenly-onb  tonael  li  ■  Jo- 

nrled  In  Che  Ufe  of  Dsnui  preHied.  Be  died  in  laOS.  G. 
YllLsni  >uini  up  hla  account  of  hiiD  by  saylni,  thnl  he  was 
hlDiMir  B  WDiliUj  nun ;  but  Uiiit  be  wu  (lie  Onl  lo  reflne 
tbe  FLDrenUaea  itota  Lhtilc  gnnuaeaa^&Dd  Eo  Instruct  Itaflm  la 
apeflkinf  prapeflv,  and  ia  cOndactinB  the  afliUn  of  Itae  le- 
pal>ltc  on  piinclplea  of  policy. 

mnn,  "  befoni  the  Bpp<>Lnled  end  of  hia  iile  waa  arrived — 
befon  bit  daya  were  Bcconipllahed."    Lombardl,  coneladiu 

bad  iDBL  himaelf  In  the  «aod  beforo  that  ihia,  and  that  hA 
then  only  diacnvend  hia  having  goae  aatray, 

1  Ifjto  11  old  limia  una  dnttfl^m  fisoit-i    Bee  O.  VUlKBL 
Rifl.,  lib.  Iv.  CKp.  v.;  >ndUaGch\av.m«t.o{FlH.,b.U.  j 


I 


HELL.  L-uno  XV. 


137 


D-fllDl, 


A7  and  Btm  aatuik  at  their  rou^  n 

Will  for  Ihy  good  deeds  »how  Ihee  eiiiiiiij. 

Nor  woudor ;  for  amaiig  ill-mvor'd  craLa 

It  BiiiU  not  the  sweet  fie-tree  lay  her  fruit 

Old  fame  repocta  tbem  in  the  world  for  UJnd,' 

Covetous,  ODIOUS,  proiid.     Look  to  it  well ; 

Take  heed  thou  cleaDse  thee  of  their  ways.  FtiTtbee, 

Tliy  fortune  linth  such  honor  in  reserve, 

That  thou  by  either  party  ahait  be  craved 

With  faungei  keen :  but  be  the  freah  herb  fu 

From  Ihe  goal's  b»th.     The  herd  of  Fenle 

May  of  themeelves  moke  litter,  not  loueh  the  plnnl, 

If  any  auch  yet  spring  on  their  rank  beii, 

In  which  the  holy  seed  revives,  trausmitled 

From  those  true  fiomans,  who  still  there  remain'd, 

When  it  was  maJe  the  nest  of  so  much  ill." 

"  Were  sit  my  wish  fulfill'd,"  I  slraiglit  n^liod, 
"  Thou  from  tho  confine*  of  mau's  nature  yet 
Hudst  not  \ieen  driven  forth ;  for  in  my  mind 
Is  fix'd,  and  notv  strikes  full-  upon  my  heart. 
The  dear,  benign,  paternal  ima.ge,  such 
As  thine  was,  when  so  lately  thou  didst  teach  mo 
The  way  for  man  to  win  elemity: 
And  how  I  prized  the  lesson,  it  behooves. 
That,  long  as  life  endnres,  my  tongue  should  speik. 
What  of  iny  fnle  thou  tell'at,  that  write  I  down ; 
And,  with  Brother  leit'  to  comment  on. 
For  her  1  keep  it,  the  eelestial  dame, 
Who  will  know  all,  if  I  to  her  arrive. 
This  only  would  I  have  thee  clearly  note : 
That,  so  my  conucieuoe  have  qo  plea  iigninel  me, 
Do  fortune  as  she  list,  I  stand  prepared. 
Not  new  or  Mrango  such  eanieBt  to  mine  oar. 
Speed  Fortune  then  her  wheel ,  as  hkes  her  best ; 
The  clown  his  mallock  ;  all  things  have  their  cout™." 

Thereat  my  sapient  guide  uimu  liis  tight 
Tuni'd  himself  back,  tlien  kiuk'd  at  me,  and  spake: 
'*He  listens  to  good  purpose  who  takes  note.' 

I  not  the  Icra  still  nn  my  wny  proceed, 
Discoursing  with  Brunetto,  and  inquire 
Who  are  moat  known  and  chief  ajooog  his  tribe. 


1  Blind.]    1 


lid  ihai  iho  Plw^ntliuii  « 


188  THE  VISION.  lIH-ni 

"  To  know  of  some  ia  well ;"  ha  thus  replied, 
"  But  of  llio  rest  silence  niny  beat  beBecm. 
Time  would  not  bojvb  un  for  report  bo  long, 
la  brief  I  tell  thee,  Chat  all  these  were  clorfci. 
Men  of  great  leaming  aud  no  leas  leuown, 
By  one  eame  ain  polluted  In  the  worid. 
With  tliem  ia  PriBGiB.n  ;'  and  Accorso'ii  son, 
Fnincesca,"  herds  ajnong  that  wretched  throng-. 
And,  if  the  winh  of  ho  impure  a  hiotch 
Powem'd  thee,  huo'  thou  also  might'st  have  BBsn, 
Who  by  the  servsjilB'  servant'  was  tranafert'd 
From  Amo'a  seat  to  BacchigUone,  where 
Hia  in-Btrain'd  nervea  he  left.     I  moro  would  add. 
But  muBt  from  farth-er  speech  and  onward  way 
Alike  desist ;  for  yonder  I  behold 
A  mist  new-risen  on  the  sandy  plain. 
A  company,  with  whom  I  may  not  sort. 
Approaches.     I  commeud  my  Treature  la  thee,' 
Whereui  I  yet  fltirvive ;  my  Bole  request." 

This  said,  he  turn'd,  and  Beem'd  hb  one  of  thooe  t 
Who  o'er  Verona's  champain  try  thi-it  speed 
For  the  green  mantle ;  and  of  them  he  seem' 
Not  he  who  luies  but  who  gains  the  priie. 

fore  Enppuse  ihu  Dsole  pnd  the  Indlvldniil  for  Ihr 
and  Implies  the  Oeqiwncy  of  the  crime  among  th 


I 


heie  apoken  of,  ia  at  Bologoa.  wiLh  thlB  aborL  efdlaph : 

Guldl  Punttlnll,  Be  CUuli  Le^ni  InUipnSbni.  Illi.'lL 
uLi.  LItH.  4IO.  ITSl. 


HELL.  Ciwro  XVI. 


CANTO   XVI, 


ARGUMENT. 
iTneyinf  tlonj  Ihs  plsr.  wUch  cimn  Ihs  nnd,  Om  u 


Now  camu  I  where  tlie  wator's  din  was  Iieaid, 
Ab  down  it  fell  inlo  Ihe  otber  round, 
BeBoimduig  like  the  hum  afswarmlDg  beee: 
When  forth  together  issued  from  a  troop, 
Thai  psaa'd  beaeBth  the  Ixerce  lormBDliiig  storm, 
Three  apirita,  running  awift.    T  hey  towardo  as  cama. 
And  each  one  cried  aloud,  "  Oil '.   do  thou  alay, 
WhtHii,  by  the  fashion  of  thy  gBTb,  we  deem 
To  be  some  inmate  of  our  evil  Land." 

Ah  me  '.  what  woonda  I  mark'd  upon  llieir  limb*( 
Recent  and  old,  mflicled  by  the  flames  I 
E'en  Uie  remembrance  of  them  grieves  me  yet. 

AlIealiTe  to  their  cry.  my  teocher  paused, 
And  tura'd  to  me  hia  visage,  and  then  apake : 
"  Wait  uow :  our  courtesy  the*e  merit  well : 
And  ware  't  uol  for  llie  nature  of  the  place, 
Wheiice  ghde  tbe  fiery  darts,  I  should  have  aaid, 
That  hute  had  better  suited  thee  than  them." 

They,  when  we  etopp'd,  resumed  their  ancient  wail, 
And,  soon  as  thoy  hold  reacli'd  na,  all  the  three 
Whirl'd  round  together  in  one  restless  wheel. 
Aa  naked  championa,  smear'd  with  slippery  oil. 
Are  wont,  intent,  to  waich  their  place  of  hold 
And  vantage,  ore  in  closer  strife  they  meet ; 
Thus  each  one,  as  he  wheel'd,  his  connteaance 
At  me  directed,  so  that  opposite 
The  neek  moved  ever  to  the  twinkling  feet 

"  If  WD  of  this  uuBOimd  and  dreary  waste," 
Thus  one  began,  "  added  to  oui  sad  cluier 
Thus  peePd  with  flame,  do  call  forth  scorn  on  ua 
And  our  entrentiea,  let  our  great  reiiown 
Incliue  thee  to  inform  us  who  thou  art, 
That  duet  imprint,  with  living-  feet  iiiiliFimi'd, 


130  THE  VISION.  3) 

The  soil  of  lIcIL     Ho,  in  whoee  track  thou  seeel 
My  stpps  puiBuin^,  naked  Ihough  lie  be 
And  rott  of  all,  was  of  more  high  hsMm 
Than  thou  belioveEt ;  grandchild  of  the  chaMB 
Gnaldrada,'  him  they  Guidoguerra  cull'd. 
Who  in  his  lifetime  many  a.  nohle  act' 
lehieyod,  both  by  hia  wisdom  and  his  aword. 


Theol 


e  that  b< 


'  Giui/Jrodii.]  GdaJdrndawaa  IhedHujiilerorBemBclonB 
Bsnl,  ur  wlinpi  moflUnn  is  made  In  the  fluHdIie.  rbniai*. 
and  ivl.  Be  ivBi  of  Ibc  familv  of  Ravlgnsol,  ■  bnnch  of 
(be  Adlmui.    The  Emperor  Olliu  IV.  being  al  a  ftillTHi  Id 


uverheulng  llilt.  ibe  arose  I 
an  anliuBUtl  Viae  of  vuJce. 
d  DoE  be  BD  llbeial  Lq  bie  offei 

I  busband.  'The  Empeterwai 
□  IB  modeatf  tban  be  bad  bi 


GnUkKor 

Inetalm  10  Ihe  Tank  urn  connt,  and  bemniiiij  od  tier  the 
whola  oTCaienQDO,  and  ft  part  of  Lbe  (errllory  of  Roducdb, 
a>  her  ponloh.  Two  toai  were  lbs  atbBtiag  nf  Ibis  union. 
Goglieloio  ud  Bng^eri ;  Ibe  tatier  of  whom  wu  laUiei  of 
GnidOKuerra.ai]ianof  ervalmULduy  hU[1  and  proween;  who, 
at  the  bead  of  four  taundrfldFlorBntliiHof  theGnelpb  poRy. 
woA  flLgaftlly  instnunenlnl  io  the  vicusy  obEalned  bc  Bvoe- 
vcDlo,  by  Charln  of  Anjou.  over  MaatVedli  King  of  Naplea, 

eipnUionc>rdieGtaJhelllii1,and  the  n^ilsbUihniest  of  (hit 


In  G.  VUluil.  Ilh.  V.  rap.  37  i 


efiqement,  migbl  pDuLbly  In  Lhtjse  tjinei  have 
)red  lather  at  a  Rpvtlve  satLy  thaq  aa  a  aerioaa 

lanner  very  unravarable  to  DerU,  by  Ftaacesco 
b>  one  of  Idi  Kovello,  inserted  by  Mr.  Tboona 
iB  ontenainlhc  lelectioa  (him  the  Ilallaa  NoweL- 


4»-77.  HELL,  Canto  XVL  131 

Is  Aldobnmdi/  name  deservingr  well, 
In  the  upper  world,  of  honor ;  and  myself. 
Who  in  this  torment  do  partake  with  them. 
Am  Rnsticucci,'  whom,  past  doubt,  my  wife, 
Of  savage  temper,  more  than  aught  b^de 
Hath  to  this  evil  brought"     If  from  the  fire 
I  had  been  shelter'd,  down  amidst  them  straight 
I  then  had  cast  me  ;  nor  my  guide,  I  deem, 
Would  have  restrain'd  my  going :  but  that  fear 
Of  the  dire  burning  vanquished  the  desire, 
Which  made  me  eager  of  their  wish'd  embrace. 

I  then  began :   **  Not  scorn,  but  grief  much  more. 
Such  as  long  time  alone  can  cure,  your  doom 
Fix'd  deep  within  me,  soon  as  this  my  lord 
Spake  words,  whose  tenor  taught  me  to  expect 
That  such  a  race,  as  ye  are,  was  at  hand. 
I  am  a  countryman  of  yours,  who  still 
Affectionate  have  uttered,  and  have  heard 
Your  deeds  and  names  renown'd.     Leaving  the  gall. 
For  the  sweet  fruit  I  go,  that  a  sure  guide 
Hath  promised  to  me.     But  behooves,  that  far 
As  to  the  centre  first  I  downward  tend." 

"  So  may  long  space  thy  spirit  guide  thy  limbs," 
He  answer  straight  retum'd ;  "  and  so  thy  fame 
Shine  bright  when  thou  art  gone,  as  thou  shalt  tell, 
If  courtesy  and  valor,  as  they  wont. 
Dwell  in  our  city,  or  have  vanish'd  clean  : 
For  one  amidst  us  late  condemned  to  wail, 
Borsiere,'  yonder  walking  with  his  peers. 
Grieves  us  no  little  by  the  news  he  brings." 

"  An  upstart  multitude  and  sudden  gains. 
Pride  and  excess,  O  Florence  !  have  in  thee 
Engender'd,  so  that  now  in  tears  thou  moum'st !" 

Thus  cried  I,  with  my  face  upraised,  and  they 
All  three,  who  for  an  answer  took  my  words, 
Look'd  at  each  other,  as  men  look  when  truth 

1  Jlldobrandi.]  Tegghiaio  Aldobrandi  was  of  the  noble 
Ikmily  of  Adimari,  and  much  esteemed  for  his  military  talents. 
He  endeavored  to  dissuade  the  Florentines  from  the  attack 
which  they  meditated  against  the  Siennese ;  and  the  rejec- 
tion of  his  counsel  occasioned  the  memorable  defeat  which 
the  former  sustained  at  Montaperto,  and  the  consequent  ban- 
ishment of  the  Gnelli  from  Florence. 

»  Rustieueci.]  Gtacopo  Rusticucci,  a  Florentine,  remark- 
able for  his  opulence  and  the  generosity  of  his  spirit. 

s  Borsiere.]  Guglielmo  Borsiere,  another  Florentine,  whom 
Boccaccio,  in  a  story  which  he  relates  of  him,  terms  "  a  man 
of  courteous  and  elegant  manners,  and  of  great  readiness  in 
conversation."    Dee.  Cfiom.,  J.  J^ov.  8. 


133                      THE  VISION.                      '^Ufi^l 

Cornea  lo  their  ear.      "  Kat  so  UtUe  cort,"'               ^^B 

They  all  at  onco  rejoin'd,  "  thou  satiefy                          ^H 

Olhera  who  quBBliou  thee,  O  happy  thou  !                      ^M 

Gifted  with  words  bo  apt  to  apeak  thy  thought             ^M 

Rptumiug  lo  behold  the  radiBnt  stan,                              ^M 

When  thou  with  pleaenie  abalt  retrace  the  paat,*         ^M 

See  that  of  UB  thou  speak  BmoDg  inaDkiad."                   ^M 

Thla  said.  Ihey  brake  the  circle,  and  so  swift                 ^ 

Fled,  that  as  piolooB  seeui'd  their  nimble  feet. 

Not  lu  BO  sliort  a  time  might  one  liave  Biiid 

"  Amen,"  as  they  had  vaniah'd.    StraJglit  my  ^tde 

Fuiaued  tm  truck.    I  follow'd:  and  amsll  space 

Had  we  puBij'd  ouward,  when  the  water's  sound              H 

Was  now  m  near  at  band,  that  we  had  scorco             wM 

Heard  one  BuothotB  upeech  for  the  load  din.                 ^1 

E'en  ae  the  river,'  that  fiist  holde  its  caoraa              H 

Uomingled,  from  the  Mount  a(  Vesulo,                         ^H 

On  the  lell  ade  of  Apciiulne,  toward                            ^H 

They  call,  ere  it  descend  into  tlia  vale,                             H 

At  Forll,'  by  that  name  no  longer  known,                    ^1 

From  the  Alplno  summit  down  a  precipice, 

Where  space'  enough  to  lodge  a  thousand  spread- ; 

Thus  downward  from  a  cmggy  steep  we  fonnd 

I  Jl  M  null  Mit.]    They  InliBisle  lo  ooi  Poel  (ai  Lom- 

tordi  WEll  obaerves)  IhB  knconvenlendo.  10  which  Hi!  CTeedaai 

of  apeecli  wu  about  lo  eipow  blm  In  Ihe  minn  coone  oT 

Idibft- 

'  WlimlituiciUiplMiurcihuIlrelraciaipaii.] 

anando  tl  gloieri  dicers  Id  M.                                          ^ 

aoTa»o.G.L.,c,i..n.38:                                                 ■    ^ 

auaadomigloveifinonBrolInil                                       H 

lo  ihai  of  tha  MohIohb  (b  river  hi  Romanm)  ft™  tba  Apen- 
nlne  sliove  ibe  Abbey  of  SI.  Bonedldl.    All  the  olliBt  RresDU. 

that  rlie  lielweea  ihe  laurcei  of  the  Fa  ajid  Die  HoBliHie.  and 

ftU  (Km  Ihe  leR  ildo  of  the  ApeDD\ne,  join  Ihe  Po,  and  as 

•  ^1  Rjrii.l    Beianw  ihefe  it  Ioim  Iha  ntiBB  of  Acqiw- 

'  ITOtrs  ^Mj.]    Eilher  becauM  the  iihlBy  wu  opaMe  of 

ei.nu.lidBB  more  thnn  thojo  who  B.eoplod  It  or  bmaam  [nyi 

l^iIlDD)  the  lord,  of  thai  lerrimry,  EI  BoccMohi  nUlBd  on 

tbn  BUlhorily  af  Die  aDbct.  bsd  [utended  to  bnlld  a  cuds  near 
the  wDUr-fiil,  ud  ID  collect  within  lu  waUt  tha  papcdsDaB 

.^ 

104-1S4.  HELL,  Cai«to  XVI.  133 

That  this  daik  wave  reeoanded,  roaring  loud. 
So  that  the  ear  Hb  clamor  soon  had  fltuim'd. 

I  had  a  cord^  that  braced  my  girdle  round, 
Wherewith  I  enrt  had  thought  fast  bound  to  tako 
The  painted  leopard.    This  when  I  had  all 
Unloosen'd  from  me  (so  my  master  bade) 
I  gathered  up,  and  stretch'd  it  forth  to  him. 
Then  to  the  right  he  tum'd,  and  from  the  brink 
Standing  few  paces  distant,  cast  it  down 
Into  the  deep  abyss.     "  And  somewhat  strange," 
Thus  to  myself  I  spake,  **  signal  so  strange 
Betokens,  which  my  guide  with  earnest  eye 
Thus  follows."     Ah !  what  caution  must  men  use 
With  those  who  look  not  at  the  deed  alone. 
But  spy  into  the  thoughts  with  subtle  skill.* 

"  Quickly  shall  come,"  he  said,  "  what  I  expect ; 
Thine  eye  discover  quickly  that,  whereof 
Thy  thought  is  dreaming."     Ever  to  that  truth," 
Which  but  the  semblance  of  a  falsehood  wears, 
A  man,  if  possible,  should  bar  his  lip ; 
Since,  although  blameless,  he  incurs  reproach. 


1  Ji  eordJ]  This  passage,  as  it  is  confessed  by  Ijandino, 
involves  a  fiction  sufficiently  obscure.  His  own  attempt  to 
unravel  it  does  not  much  lessen  the  difficulty.  That  which 
Lombardi  has  made  is  something  better.  It  u  believed  that 
our  Poet,  in  the  earlier  part  of  his  life,  had  entered  Into  tho 
order  of  St.  Francis.  By  oliscrving  the  rules  of  that  profes- 
sion, he  had  designed  to  mortifV  his  carnal  appetites,  or,  as 
he  expresses  it,  "  to  take  tho  painted  leopard*'  (that  animal, 
which,  as  we  have  seen  In  a  note  to  the  first  Canto,  repre- 
sented Pleasure)  "  with  this  cord."  This  part  of  tho  habit  he 
is  now  desired  by  Virgil  to  take  ofif;  and  it  is  thrown  down 
the  gulf,  to  allure  Geryon  to  them  with  the  expectation  of 
carrying  down  one  who  had  cloaked  his  iniquities  under  the 
garb  of  penitence  and  self-mortification ;  and  thus  (to  apply 
to  Dante  on  this  occasion  the  words  of  Milton) 

He,  as  Franciscan,  thought  to  pass  disguised, 
s  Bui  spy  into  the  thoughU  with  subtle  skill.] 

Sorrise  Uranio,  che  per  entro  vede 
611  altrui  pensier  col  senno. 

Jlfenzint.  Sonetto.    Mentre  to  dornua, 

s  Ever  to  that  truth.]  This  memorable  apophthegm  is  re- 
peated by  Luigi  Puici  and  Trlssino : 

Sempre  a  quel  ver,  ch*  ha  faccia  di  menzogna, 
£  piu  senno  tacer  la  lingua  cheta, 
Che  spesso  senza  col  pa  fa  vei^ogna. 

Morgante  Magg.^  C.  zziv. 

La  verity,  che  par  mensogna, 
Si  dovrebbe  tacer  dali'  uom  ch*  k  saggio. 

/ta/ia  Lib,f  c.  xvi. 


Wliicl. 


tIsI 


'^.: 


iriiplfld 

A  shape  come  ewiminmg  up,  tlint  might  hare  qn^ 
The  alDuCest  hoarl  wilh  wonder ',  in  such  guim 
Ak  odb  returns,  nho  bath  lieen  down  to  loosa 
Aa  anchor  grappled  fast  againet  some  nick. 
Or  to  aught  else  that  in  the  salt  wave  lies. 
Who,  upward  aptinging,  cIobb  drawa  in  hk  fast 

CANTO   XVII. 

AEGTIMENT. 
iDonsier  GervDD  li  dsicrHHd ;  tg  whom  while  Vii^l  ii 
nukinir  Ln  order  ttnl  he  may  carry  Uiem  brUh  ilnwu  (o 

-'— '-  Danu,  by  pormlKion,  goes  s  IliUs  nmher 

nf  (be  rniit,  lo  ddciy  Uia  Itilrd  speclei  of 
Hmnen  cuabilu^d  In  thlA  cinuparLmenL  uaiaely,  iboae  who 
have  done  violeoce  to  An;  nnd  [hen  reliumkn^  Eo  hlamu- 
ccr.  they  hoLh  dutieiid,  Bealed  on  the  back  of  Ooryou, 
"  I/O !  the  fell  ■uonnec'  with  the  deadly  stin^. 
Who  passes  mouutaius,  breaks  through  fenced  walb 
And  firm  embattled  apeure,  and  with  hie  iillh 
Tahita  all  the  world."   Thus  me  my  gaido  addrem'd, 
And  beckoo'd  him,  that  ho  should  came  lo  shore, 
Near  Id  the  stony  causeway's  atinoat  edge. 

Forthirith  that  image  vile  of  Fraud  appear'd, 
ITn  head  and  upper  part  exposed  on  land. 
But  laid  not  on  the  Bhoro  his  bestial  train. 
Hn  face  the  SBmblance  of  a  jnst  mon'a  worC) 
So  khid  and  gracioos  was  its  outward  cheer ; 
The  rest  was  serpent  all :  two  abaggy  claws 
Reach'd  to  the  arm-pitB ;  and  (he  back  and  bl 
And  eitlier  aide,  were  painted  o'er  with  n 
And  orbits.    Colors  variegated  more 
Nor  Turks  nor  Tartars  e'er  on  cloth  of  stats 
With  mterchangeable  embroidery  n 


13-jnr.  HELL,  Canto  XVII.  |85 

Nor  spread  Axachne  o'er  her  curious  loom. 
As  oft-times  a  light  skiff,  moor*d  to  the  shore, 
Stands  part  in  water,  part  upon  the  land ; 
Or,  as  where  dwells  the  greedy  Grerman  boor. 
The  beaver  settles,  watching  for  his  prey ; 
So  on  the  rim,  that  fenced  the  sand  with  rock. 
Sat  perch'd  the  fiend  of  eviL    In  the  void 
Glancinff,  his  tail  uptum'd  its  venomous  fork. 
With  sting  like  scorpion's  arm'd.    Then  thus  my 

guide: 
"  Now  need  our  way  must  turn  few  steps  apart, 
Far  as  to  that  ill  beast,  who  couches  tliere." 

Thereat,  toward  the  right  our  downward  course 
We  shaped,  and,  better  to  escape  the  flame 
And  burning  marl,  ten  paces  on  the  verge 
Proceeded.     Soon  as  we  to  him  arrive, 
A  little  farther  on  mine  eye  beholds 
A  tribe  of  spirits,  seated  on  the  sand 
Near  to  the  void.     Forthwith  my  master  spake : 
**  That  to  the  full  thy  knowledge  may  extend 
Of  all  this  round  contains,  go  now,  and  mark 
The  mien  these  wear :  but  hold  not  long  discoune. 
Till  thou  retumest,  I  with  him  meantime 
Will  parley,  that  to  us  he  may  vouchsafe 
The  aid  of  his  strong  shoulders/'     Thus  alone, 
Yet  forward  on  the  extremity  I  paced 
Of  that  seventh  circle,  where  the  mournful  tribe 
Were  seated.    At  the  eyes  forth  gush'd  their  pangs. 
Against  the  vapors  and  the  torrid  soil 
Alternately  their  shifting  hands  they  plied. 
Thus  use  the  dogs  in  summer  still  to  ply 
Their  jaws  and  feet  by  turns,  when  bitten  sore 
By  gnats,  or  flies,  or  gadflies  swarming  round. 

Noting  the  visages  of  some,  who  lay 
Beneath  the  pelting  of  that  dolorous  fire, 
One  of  them  all  I  knew  not ;  but  perceived, 
That  pendent  from  his  neck  each  bore  a  pouch* 
With  colors  and  with  emblems  various  mark'd. 
On  which  it  seem'd  as  if  their  eye  did  feed. 

And  when,  among  them,  looking  round  I  came, 
A  yellow  purse*  I  saw  with  azure  wrought, 

1  A  pouch.]  A  purse,  whereon  the  armorial  bearings  of 
each  were  emblazoned.  According  to  Landino,  our  poet 
implies  that  the  usurer  can  pretend  to  no  other  hontur  than 
such  as  he  derives  from  his  purse  and  his  family.  The  de- 
scription of  persons  by  their  heraldic  insignia  is  remarkable 
both  on  the  present  and  several  other  occasions  in  this  poem. 

3  Jl  yellow  jntrsa.]  The  anus  of  the  Gianfigliazzl  of  Florence. 


THE  VISION. 


Tlicn,  etill  my  sight  puisuing  its  career, 

AaoIhET'  I  beheld,  than  blood  more  led, 

A  goDie  display  of  n-hitcr  wing  than  curd 

And  one,  who  boro  a.  fat  and  aiare  awine' 

Pictured  on  hta  whita  scrip,  addreas'd  mo  t 

"Whnl  doBt  thon  in  this  deep?     Go  now  and  knowj 

Since  yet  thou  livcst,  that  my  neighbor  here 

Vitaliano'  on  my  left  shall  sit. 

A  Foduan  with  these  Florentines  urn  1. 

Oft-limes  they  thunder  in  mine  ears,  exclaiiniag, 

'  Oh  !  haste  that  noble  knight,'  he  who  the  pouch 

'  With  the  three  goats'  will  bring.' "    Thk  said,  he 

writhed 
The  moalh,  and  lall'd  the  tongue  out,  tike  in  ox 
That  licks  fain  noslrile.     I,  lest  longer  stay 
He  ill  might  brook,  who  bade  me  stay  not  long, 
BackwarS  my  stepti  from  thoee  sod  spirits  turtrd. 

My  guide  already  sealed  on  the  haunch 
Of  the  fierce  animal  1  found;  and  thus 
He  me  encouraged.      "  Be  thou  stoat :  be  bold. 
Down  such  a  ateep  flight  must  we  now  descend. 
Mount  thon  before :  tor,  that  uo  power  the  tail 
May  have  to  harm  thee,  I  will  be  i'  th'  midBt-" 

Aa  one,'  who  hath  an  ague  fit  so  neai. 
His  nails  already  ars  tum'd  blue,  and  he 
QaJvera  all  o'er.  If  he  but  eye  the  shade  ; 
Stlch  was  my  cheer  -at  hearing  of  his  words. 
Bnt  shame'  soon  interposed  her  threat,  who  maka 

>  ^naOier.]    Thote  nf  the  tlbbrlact 
liuDUy  uf  high  dlDIlaeliDti. 

»  J  fill  Md  fl»M  ™™.j    The  MB 
Dobli  Gunlly  nf  Podoiu 

'  FilalmTui    VLIalluiadelDeiitE,  B 

t  Titat  jubli  iniglu.]  Gioyuiiii  BnjunanU,  a  Flonmlba 
a<iarer.  Lha  Dicwt  Intamoua  of  hJi  Hmf. 

fl  Goats.]  Monti,  In  hii  Propoala.  bad  Lmrodiieed  a  Iko^ 
tioas  dLalOflUB  on  the  luppoHiI  (olsLake  msde  lb  tbe  Interpre- 
mtlon  of  Ihil  word  "  Becchi"  by  Ihe  comjdlers  of  the  Dcl|» 

■"-  '-~AiliiandBratsii3!BK''of  my  auihor,  j"--— -  -<-  "~ 
r  do  good  iLU  es:aiiiplfl,  by  nrknowli 


\ 


I 


, ^'^Vi?' ^Bl  bold  in  prBseoee  of  his  lord. 
f^'*,  *«<!  ma  upon  Ihoae  Bliaulden  bum, 

~'  '^^^^  ^""^  "^'''  *""  "*"  ^^  *''"™  ^  '"^ 
uOi^^tMiae  came  doI,  "  Look  thou  c[aap  mv  firm." 
Sim^  J^  wbose  Buccoi  then  not  £rat  I  provtid, 
tm\^J^  I  mounteil,  ill  his  urnui  aloft, 
"  G«      '"£>  '"'''  '"■"  "P  '  "^^  ^"^  ''^  qiako  : 
Of  a*^"" '  ""^  move  [bee  ;  bf  tlif  wbeeUng  gyrea 
~  ."'Mple  eircuil,  easy  thy  denoent. 
'  ''Ulll  on  tho  miusUBl  buiden  tbau  mMtain'st." 
HI  1  anal!  vessel,  backcning  aut  from  land, 
UetHilna  quiU  ;  so  Uience  the  monster  loaaed, 
Ajid,  when  be  felt  himself  at  largo,  tum'd  round 
Tlivre,  whera  Ibe  bieaat  bad  been,  his  forked  taiL 
Thus,  like  an  eel,  onl«trelcb'd  at  length  be  ■leer'd, 
GatheriDg  tlie  air  up  with  retractile  clawa 

Not  greater  wue  the  drend,  when  Phoaion 
The  reins  let  drop  at  random,  wlience  bi^b  heaven, 
-  ■        yetappcar,.^ 


Nor 


1  ill-f[ 


ved. 


wheels 


Tlie  trusted  peuuDua  lo 
Hie  sire  exulaiming  loni 
Tlian  WHH  my  dread,  w 
The  NT  I  view's,  nnd  otner  oDjcct  none 
Save  the  fell  beast     He,  slowly  Bulling 
Hifl  downward  motion,  unobserrod  of  m 
But  Ihat  the  wind,  arising  to  my  face, 
Breallies  on  me  from  below.    Now  on  our  right 
I  heard  the  cataract  beneath  tis  leap  [plorci 

With  hideouB  craab  ;  whence  bending  down  to  ex- 
New  terror  1  conceived  at  the  steep  plunge  ; 
For  flames  1  saw,  and  wailtnea  smote  mine  ear: 
8o  that,  all  trembling,  close  Icrouch'd  my  limbs, 
And  then  distinguish'd,  unperceived  before. 
By  the  drend  torments  that  on  every  side 
Drew  nearer,  bow  our  downward  course  we  wound- 
As  falcon,  that  hath  long  been  on  the  wing. 
Bat  lure  nor  bird  hath  seeo,  while  ui  deapur 
The  falconet  cries, "  Ah  rae  1  thou  stoop'«  lo  earth," 
Wearied  descends,  whence  nimbly  be  arose 
Id  many  on  airy  wheel,  and  lighting  aits 


lappean  pr 


nl  fo  le 


138  THE  VISION.  IS 

At  dietunce  Iroin  hie  lord  iu  angr^  mood ; 
So  Geryon  lighting  places  ob  nn  foot 
Ijow  dowQ  at  basti  of  the  decp-fiirrow'd  rock> 
And,  of  his  burdeu  Diera  diseharged,  forthwiA 
Spraiig  forward,  like  an  arrow  from  Uie  string 

CANTO   XVIII. 


1 


!D  gul&.  whkb  coataln  ai  irany  £^«it  de- 
cLiipimna  VI  ftBndntcni  iLnpera  -,  Udi  in  tbe  present  Cjula 

for  IheEr  own  pleuure.  or  fbr  Lhn.1  DfiuidLbcr,  bavs  sedacod 
nny  WDiiuui  froni  her  duly;  and  theu  MB  Bconrged  ot 
demons  In  the  tn%  gulf:  Iho  oltier  ton  is  of  tlettenn,  wtio 
in  Ihe  utond  gulfaj^  doodDmood  to  ranmln  Imoieried  in 

Tkeiie  is  a  place  wiUiia  the  depths  of  hell  *■ 

Call'd  Malebolgf',  all  of  rock  dark-stain'd  J|^| 

With  hue  fprrugiuous,  e'ea  as  the  steep  ^^M 

That  round  it  circUug  winds.     Right  in  the  mldat  ^H 
Of  that  abominable  region  yawns  ^M 

A  spacious  gulf  profound,  whereof  ths  fVame 
Due  time  shall  tell.     The  circle,  thnt  remains. 
Throughout  its  rouad,  bulween  the  gulf  and  twse 
Of  ihe  high  cragg;  banks,  successive  fornis 
Ten  bastions,  in  its  hollow  bottom  raised. 

As  whore,  to  gaard  the  walls,  full  many  a 
Begirds  some  stately  castle,  sore  defencB' 
Abiding  to  the  space  within  ;  so  here 
Were  njodell'd  these  ;  and  na  like  fort 


Sitn  rtefeiiM,]     La  parte 


ediUon.  printed  al  ... 

and  alio  In  lonie  M98.    Tlie  iallcr,  which  Iw  rnry  niiich  Uw 

uir,  on  Ibo  BuHiortij-  af  a  liil  ■nppdsed  to  1m  In  Ibe  band- 
wrlllng  or  PilipiB  VLIlanl,  bql  so  defiicod  by  tbo  alleraUnu 
made  In  11  by  annw  leu  iMlfUl  band,  Ibat  ibe  traces  of  Ibe 
Did  Ink  were  with  dirfienlly  recoiBred ;  end  11  hu.  ilnco  lbs 

Clicamm  of  LombardJ'i  sdlUna,  been  inel  with  alio  ia  tba 
lie  OaHblo  MS, 
Monti  1>  decided  In  favor  of  Lonibaidl's  readiDg,  nnd  UagloU 


lft-48.  HELL,  Canto  XVIIL  139 

E*en  from  their  threshold  to  the  brink  without, 
Are  flank'd  with  bridges ;  from  the  rock*B  low  base 
Thus  flinty  paths  advanced,  that  'cross  the  moles 
And  dikes  struck  onward  far  as  to  the  ^\f, 
That  in  one  bound  collected  cuts  them  off. 
Such  was  the  place,  wherein  wo  found  ouraelves 
From  Geryon's  back  dislodged.     The  bard  to  left 
Held  on  his  way,  and  I  behind  him  moved. 

On  our  right  hand  new  misery  I  saw, 
New  pains,  new  executioners  of  wrath, 
That  swarming  peopled  the  first  chasm.     Below 
Were  naked  sinners.     Hitherward  thoy  came. 
Meeting  our  faces,  from  the  middle  point ; 
With  us  beyond,'  but  with  a  larger  stride. 
E*en  thus  the  Romans,'  when  the  year  returns 
Of  Jubilee,  with  better  speed  to  rid 
The  thronging  multitudes,  their  means  devise 
For  such  as  pass  the  bridge  ;  that  on  one  side 
All  front  toward  the  castle,  and  approach 
Saint  Peter's  fane,  on  the  other  towards  the  mount 

Each  diverse  way,  along  the  grisly  rock, 
Hom'd  demons  I  beheld,  with  lashes  huge, 
That  on  their  back  unmercifully  smote. 
Ah  !  how  they  made  them  bound  at  the  first  stripe  ! 
None  for  the  second  waited,  nor  the  third. 

Meantime,  as  on  I  pass'd,  one  met  my  sight, 
Whom  soon  as  viewM,  "  Of  him,"  cried  I,  "  not  vet 
Mine  eye  hath  had  his  fill."     I  therefore  stay'd* 
My  feet  to  scan  him,  and  the  teacher  kind 
Paused  with  me,  and  consented  I  should  walk 
Backward  a  space  ;  and  the  tormented  spirit, 
Who  thought  to  hide  him,  bent  his  visage  down. 

1  With  us  beyond.]  Beyond  the  middle  point  thoy  tended 
the  same  way  with  us,  but  their  pace  was  qulclicr  than 
ours. 

a  E'en  thus  the  Romans.]  In  the  year  1300,  Pope  Boniface 
Vni.,  to  remedy  the  inconvenience  occasioned  by  tlie  press 
of  people  who  were  passing  over  the  bridge  of  St.  Angelo 
during  the  time  of  the  Jubilee,  caused  it  to  be  divided  length- 
wise by  a  partition ;  and  ordered,  that  all  those  who  were 
going  to  St.  Peter's  should  keep  one  side,  and  those  returning, 
the  other.  6.  Villani,  who  was  present,  describes  the  order 
that  was  preserved,  lib.  viii.  cap.  36.  It  was  at  this  tinK>,  and 
on  this  occasion,  as  the  honest  historian  tells  us,  that  ho  first 
conceived  the  design  of  "  compiling  his  book." 

s  /  therrfore  stayed.]  '*  I  piedi  aflissi"  is  the  reading  of  the 
Nidobeatina  edition ;  but  Lombardi  is  under  an  error,  when 
he  tells  us  that  the  other  editions  have  "gli  occhi  affissl;" 
for  Vellatcllo's,  at  least,  printed  in  1544,  agrees  with  the 
NidobeEitiiia. 


140  THE  VISION. 

But  it  avaii'd  him  naught ;  for  I  exdsim'd  : 
"Thon  who  doat  cast  thine  eye  npon  Ihe  grou 
Unleaa  Ihf  fealaniB  dn  belie  thee  much, 
Venedico'  art  thou.      But  whal  bringa  thee 
Into  IhiB  hitter  BeoMinlngT"'     He  replied: 
"Uuwilhngly  I  answer  to  thy  worda. 
Bat  thy  clear  Hpeech,  that  to  my  mind  recalla 
The  world  I  once  inhahited,  cooMraina  me. 
Know  then  'twaa  I  who  led  fair  Ghtoola 
To  do  the  Manjnia'  will,  however  fame 
The  Bhameful  tale  have  hruited.     Nor  alone, 
Bologna  hither  aendeth  me  to  mourn. 
Rather  with  ua  the  place  iB  bo  o'erthrong'd. 
That  not  BO  many  toaguea  tliia  day  are  taaglit, 
Botwin  the  Reuo  and  Savena'a  Btraam, 
To  answer  Sipa'  in  tbsir  country's  jrfirBse. 
Aud  if  of  that  secucer  proof  thou  need, 
Remember  but  our  crariug  tliint  far  gold." 

Him  speaking  Ihiie,  a  demon  with  his  thong 
Struck  and  eielaim'd,  "Away,  i»HTupter!  her*  -4 
Women  are  none  tor  Bale."     Forthwith  I  joiu'd    ^ 

To  where  a  rock  forth  ianied  from  the  bank. 

That  easily  ascended,  to  the  right 

Upon  its  splinter  turning,  we  depart 

From  those  eternal  barnera,     Whea  arrived 

Where,  underneath,  the  gaping  arch  lata  pan 

The  Bconrged  bouIb  :  "  Pauao  here,"  the  teaobeid 

"  And  let  these  others  iraBerable  now 

Strike  on  thy  ken  ;  faces  not  yet  beheld. 

For  that  together  Iliey  with  us  have  walk'd." 

From  the  old  bridge  we  eyed  llie  pack,  who  ci 
From  the  other  aide  toward  us,  like  the  rest, 
Excoriate  from  the  iKsh.     My  gentle  guide, 
By  me  unqueation'd,  thus  his  speech  resume 


■■  Behold  Ikat  latty  ahiidc!,  who  tbia  way  tende, 


Andw 


bogoni 


Jaaon  is  he,  whoee  skill  and  prowess  won 
The  timi  from  Colchiis.     To  tbe  Leniman  isle 
His  passage  thither  led  bim,  whtsn  tbose  bold 
And  pitiless  women  had  slum  all  their  males. 


There  he  with  token 


ind  fair 


Hypeipyle^  beguiled,  a  virgin  yon 

Who  first  had  all  the  rest  herself  beguiled 

Impregnated,  he  left  her  there  forlorn. 

Such  is  tbe  guilt  condemns  him  to  this  pam. 

Here  loo  Medea's  injurieB  are  aveoged. 

All  bear  him  company,  who  like  deceit 

To  his  haie  practised.    And  thus  much  to  know 

Of  the  fust  VI 


Whon 


Nov 


Where,  croanng  the  i 

Bestrides  its  shoulders  to  anotner  arcn. 

Hence,  in  the  second  chasm  wb  heard  tliB  ghodta. 
Who  ^hber  in  low  melancholy  sounds. 
With  wide-Btrctch'd  nostrils  snort,  and  on  lllPinflelves 
Smito  with  their  palms.     Upon  liie  banke  a  acurf. 
From  the  foul  pteam  condeuised,  eticrueting  hung, 
That  held  sharp  combat  wiLb  the  sight  and  BmeD. 

So  hollow  ia  the  depth,  Ibat  from  no  part, 
Save  on  tbe  suinmil  of  Ihc  rocky  apaa, 
Coold  I  distinguish  aught.    Tbns  far  we  cauie ; 
And  thence  [  saw,  witbin  the  foea  below, 
A  crowd  inuneised  in  ordore,  that  appear^ 
Draff  of  the  human  body.     There  beneath 
Searching  with  eye  mquisitivc,  I  mark'd 
One  with  his  head  so  grimed,  'twere  hard  lo  deem 
If  he  were  clerk  or  laj-man.     Loud  lie  cried : 
■'  Why  greedily  Ihua  bendest  more  on  me, 
Than  on  theae  other  hlthy  ones,  thy  ken?" 

"  Beeauae,  if  true  my  memory,"  I  repUed, 
"  I  heretofore  have  seen  tbee  with  dry  locks  ; 
And  tbou  AleBsio'  art,  of  Lucca  spmog. 
Therefore  than  all  the  rest  I  acan  thee  more," 

Then  bealing  on  liis  brahi,  theae  words  ho  spalie : 


(43  THE  VISION.  las-m. 

"  Me  lliui  low  down  my  flBMerifs  have  HUnk, 
Whprowith  1  ne'er  Kuough  could  glut  my  longne." 

My  leader  thus :  "  A  little  furllier  stretch 
Thy  face,  thai  thoq  the  visage  well  may'rt  note 
Of  [hat  beiiotted,  iluttisli  courtesaji. 
Who  there  doth  rend  her  with  defiled  nnila, 
Now  crouching  tlowu,  now  risen  on  her  feet. 
Thaie'  it  thu,  the  harlol,  whose  false  tip 
Answer'd  her  doting  poiamour  that  aik'd, 
■  Thaakeet  me  much  Z' — '  Say  rather,  wondroiuiy.' 
And,  seeing  this,  here  mtiete  be  onr  view." 


CAUTO  XIX. 


Ihaie  of  Olliei  ponlitfe,  nro  billerlj  reprehsmleil.     Vl* 
(hen  carrlDB  him  up  BKBln  Id  the  arch,  which  aflbtd*  LhflD 
s  pssuga  over  The  followliif  gulf. 
Wo  to  thee,  Simon  Mogua  !  wo  to  you, 

Hia  wretched  followers  !  who  t)ie  things  of  God, 

Which  should  be  wedded  unlo  goodness,  them, 

Bapacioua  as  ve  are,  do  prostitute 

For  gold  and  silver  in  adultery. 

Now  must  Ihe  trumpet  sound  for  you,  since  youTB 

Is  the  third  chasm.     Upon  the  foUowiug  vniilt 

We  now  had  mouuted,  where  the  rock  iinpeuib 

Direelly  o'er  the  centre  of  the  foss. 

Wisdom  Supreme!   how  wonderful  the  art, 

Which  thou  doBt  manifest  in  heaven,  in  eurth. 

And  in  Ihe  evil  world,  how  just  a  meed 

Allotlijig  by  thy  virtue  unto  alL 

I  saw  the  livid  stoue,  throughout  the  sides 

And  in  lis  botlom  full  of  aperlure«. 

All  equal  in  their  wjdtli,  and  circular  each. 

Nor  ample  less  nor  larger  they  appeai'd 


I 


HHF                IIELL,  Canto  XIX.                   143 

Tbui,  in  St.  JohD'H  fair  dome'  nf  me  beloved, 

One  of  Ihe  which  I  bmke,  dome  low  yearn  pant. 

Tfl  save  B  whelming  infant :  mid  b«  Ihie 

The  motive  of  my  deed.     From  out  (ha  moulh 

or  every  one  emerged  a  sinner's  feet, 

And  of  the  legR  high  upwiird  un  the  cnif. 

The  rest  beneatli  waa  hid.     On  either  foot 

The  bdIbb  were  burning;  whence  the  flexile  joinla 

Glanced  with  anch  violent  motion,  an  had  »>aj>p'd 

Asunder  cords  or  twisted  wilhs.     Aa  flame. 

Feeding  on  uncloous  matter,  gUdes  along 

The  surface,  Bcarcely  touching  where  it  moves  ; 

So  here,  from  heel  to  pohil,  gMed  the  Hamea. 

"  Master!  Bay  who  is  he,  than  all  Ihe  n-st 

Glancing  in  fiercer  agony,  on  whom 

A  mddier  flame  doth  prey  7'  1  Ihia  inqiiireit. 

"  ir  Ihon  be  willing,"  he  replied,  •'  that  E 

Carry  thee  down,  where  least  (he  alow  bunk  falla, 

He  of  UimHU  shaU  (eJ  thee,  and  his  wrongs." 

I  then :  "  As  pleases  thee,  to  me  is  beat. 

Thou  an  my  lord:  and  know'at  that  ne'er  1  quit 

Thy  will ;  what  silenco  hidel,  that  knowcst  thoit." 
Thereat  on  the  fourth  pier  we  came,  we  tuni'd, 

And  on  our  loft  deaceiided  to  the  depth, 

Nor  from  his  side  my  leader  eel  ma  down, 

Till  to  his  orifice  he  iKOUght,  wlione  limb 

Quivering  oipreaa'd  his  pung.     "  Whoe'er  thon  art. 

Sad  apiiit !  thus  nvetaed,  and  as  a  stake 

Driven  in  the  aoil,"  I  m  theae  words  began  ; 

■'  If  thou  b«  able,  utter  forth  Ihy  v«co." 

ThBM  stood  I  yke  the  friar,  (hat  doth  ehrivo 

A  wnleli  for  murder  doora'd,  who,  e'en  when  fin'd,' 

•  A>>MJMa'>/itrd~su.]    Tbs  apemirei  In  Ihe  rork  were 

IBBIW  Uu[  Itw  iwtiva  of  hbi  bramln?  Ibo  rom  bid  been  on- 

ffiiSjsi;^"'^  Sisis.  *arr™"k?St'srj^': 

■m  JunOm :  al  IbMen  ptannlnr,  eaplH  daonnai.  lia  quod 

wWlin       "  Let  lbs  uiurin  be  diund  kI  ihe  »ii  nf  a. 

.-      1 

■B              1 

144 


THE  VISION. 


1 


Calletb  him  back,  whence  dsntli  awhile 

He  shouted:  "Ha!  already  Btsndmt  Ihers? 
Alreudy  Blandest  there,  O  Boniface!' 
]}y  many  a  year  the  writing  play'd  mu  fals 
So  early  dost  t)iau  sutfalt  with  the  wealth, 
For  which  (hou  (earedat  not  in  guile'  la  lake 
The  torely  lady,  and  then  mangle  her?" 

I  felt  UB  those  who,  piercing  not  the  drift 
Of  answer  made  them,  Aand  as  if  ex)io«ed 
III  mockery,  nor  know  whal  te  reply  ; 
When  Virgil  thus  admonish'd :  "  Tell  him  quick, 
'  I  »in  not  he,  not  he  whom  thou  believeet.' " 

Atid  I,  as  WBB  enjain'd  me,  ttraight  replied. 

That  heard,  (he  Biurit  all  did  wrench  lus  feet. 
And,  eighiDg,  next  in  woful  accent  spake: 
"  WImllhen  of  me  requirest?    If  to  know 
So  much  imports  thee,  who  I  am,  that  Ihoa 
Hast  therefore  down  the  bank  descended,  leam 
Thai  in  the  mighty  mantle  I  was  robed,' 
And  of  a  she-hear  was  indeed  the  son. 
So  eager  to  advonoe  my  whelps,  that  Ihers 
My  having  in  my  purse  above  I  stow'd. 
And  here  myself.     Under  my  head  are  dragg'd 
The  rest,  my  predecessors  in  Iho  guilt 
Of  simony.    Slretoh'd  at  th«r  lenMh,  Ihey  lie 
Along  an  opening  in  Ihe  rock.     Midst  them 
I  also  low  shall  fall,  eooa  aa  lie  cornea. 
For  whom  I  took  thee,  when  eo  haalily 
I  qiicstion'd.     But  already  longer  time 
Hath  pass'd,  idnce  my  soles  kindled,  and  I  thnB 
Uptiim'd  have  stood,  than  is  his  doom  lo  stand 
Planted  with  liery  feet,  for  after  him, 
One  yet  of  deeds  more  ugly  shall  airire, 
From  forth  the  west,  a  shepherd  withont  law, 

■  O  Bmifarcl]    The  spirit  mlsUkos  DboIb  for 


propbocv,  wblcb  predicled  Qie  deslb  of  thai  pajie  at  a  luei 
IHilod.    BoDlftice  died  in  1303. 

■  Jn^ndB-]  "Thoudldat  preiume  to  orrivo  by  fTBudiileat 
nBHnfl  ai  the  papal  power,  and  &t1erwuit»  to  abuu  11." 

*  In  (Aff  fivl'^  tnimUf  I  teas  robeiL]  NldbatsA  111.  of  the 
Onlnl  fbnilly,  wbum  llie  Foet  IberefniE  ghUi  "  fiBHiol  dell' 
-     -■■      ■    ■ledledtnlSSl, 


87-100.  HELL,  Canto  XIX.  I45 

Fated  to  cover  both  hk  form  and  mine. 
He  a  new  Jason^  shall  be  call'd,  of  whom 
In  Maccabees  we  read ;  and  favor  such 
As  to  that  priest  his  iang  indulgent  show'd, 
Shall  be  of  France's  monarch'  shown  to  him." 

I  know  not  if  I  here  too  far  presumed, 
But  ui  this  strain  I  answer'd :  "  Tell  me  now, 
What  treasures  from  St  Peter  at  the  first 
Our  Lord  demanded,  when  he  put  the  keys 
Into  his  charge  ?     Surely  he  ask'd  no  more 
But  *  Follow  me  !*     Nor  Peter,*  nor  the  rest. 
Or  gold  or  silver  of  Matthias  took. 
When  lots  were  cast  upon  the  forfeit  place 
Of  the  condenmed  soul.^    Abide  thou  then ; 
Thy  punishment  of  right  is  merited : 
And  look  thou  well  to  that  ill-gotten  coin. 
Which  against  Charles"  thy  hardihood  inspured. 
If  reverence  of  the  keys  restrained  me  not. 
Which  thou  in  happier  times  didst  hold,  I  yet 
Severer  speech  might  use.     Your  avarice 
O'ercasts  the  world  with  mourning,  under  foot* 
Treading  the  good,  and  raising  bad  men  up. 
Of  shepherds  like  to  you,  the  Evangelist^ 

1  j9  new  Jason.]  "  But  after  the  death  of  Selencos,  when 
Antiochus,  called  Epiphanes,  took  the  kingdom,  Jason,  the 
brother  of  Onias,  labored  underhand  to  be  Idgh-priest,  prom- 
ising onto  the  king,  by  intercession,  three  hundred  and  three- 
score talents  of  silver,  and  of  another  revenue  eighty  talents.** 
Jdaccab.y  b.  ii.  ch.  iv.  7,  8. 

a  Of  Prance's  monarch.]  Philip  IV.  of  France.  See  O. 
Villani,  lib.  viii.  c.  Ixxx. 

«  JVVw  Peter.]    Acts  of  the  Apostles,  ch.  i.  28. 

4  Hie  condemned  eovtl.]    Judas. 

A  JIgainst  Charles.]  Nicholas  III.  was  enraged  against 
Charles  I.  ICing  of  Sicily,  because  he  rejected  with  scorn  a 
proposition  made  by  that  pope  for  an  alliance  between  their 
families.    See  G.  villani,  Hist.,  Ub.  vii.  c.  liv. 

«   Underfoot.] 

So  shall  the  world  go  on, 

To  good  malignant,  to  l)ad  men  benign. 

MUton,  P.  £.,  b.  xii.  538. 

T  The  Evangelist.]  Rev.  c.  xvii.  1,  2,  3. — ^Petrarch,  in  one 
of  his  Epistles,  had  his  eye  on  these  lines :  "  Oaude  {inquam) 
et  ad  aliquid  utilis  inventa  gloriare  honorwn  hostis  et  malorum 
hospes,  atque  asylum  pessima  rerum  Babylon  feris^  Hhodani 
ripis  imposita,  famosa  dicam  an  infamis  meretrix,  fornieata  cum 
regibus  terra.  Ilia  equidem  ipsa  es  quam  in  spiritu  sacer 
vidit  Evangelista.  Ilia  eadem^  inquam^  es,  non  alia,  sedens 
stqter  aquas  mvltas,  sive  ad  littora  tribus  einctafiuminibus  sive 
rerum  atque  divitiarum  turba  mortalium  quibus  lasciviens  ae 
seeura  insides  opum  immemor  <Btemarum  sive  ut  idem  qui  vidit, 
ea^suit,    Populi  et  gentea  et  Ungutd  a  qua  sunt,  super  quas 


US  THE  VISION.  110-11& 

Was  ware,  whm  her,  who  wU  upon  the  waves. 
With  kings  in  Glthy  Trharodcim  he  beheld  ; 
SliH  who  with  Bevcn  heada  lowei'd  at  her  birth, 
And  from  len  honiB  her  proof  of  glory  drew. 
Long  aa  her  Bpouae  in  virtne  took  defighL 
Of  gold  and  ailyer  ye  have  mads  your  god. 
Differing  wherein  bona  the  idolater. 
But  Ihat  he  worsbipa  one,  a  bundled  yel 
Ah,  CooBtautiDe '.'  to  how  much  ill  gave  biilh, 

fiU.  Sa«i;„lSM.  l!puUlrilutUlllii'l,ittr.e^iti.p.-m^TbB 
(eAl  it  hen  probably  cotmpMd-  The  consmicUon  certainty 
may  be  readend  eaaler  by  umllEtnR  tbe  ad  bflfora  titt^n.  uid 

kII  the  reipeci  [hni  la  dna  to  s  lenemble  jiSbu  ind  Dnlr 

gbU^d  ei 

aplHiellc  concem  flir  &a  tiilid  cbuich,  (lot  under  Ibis  Ides 
Avlgnuii,)  brouebl  lo  Uls  tnind  tbe  eoodlilDB  of  ihe  Junlxh 
perbapi,  [hat  he  meKDl  lu  in^anle  la  nunl  oT  Ibine  pasn«Ei^ 
ApaciUi/plic  BnbyiaD,  (u  iie  clearly  dusd  In  Ihe  eptetla  under 


TtBTKB  TER1T&TIS."  .^R  iiureilucaen  to  Uc  gtuaf  nj  the 
Pro/iiociM,  St.,  by  Eichnrd  Hard,  D.  D.,  una.  viL  p.  as»,  nole 
y,  «d.  1773. 

BiBhop'ar  Worceiter  has  oDiiltecIln  bis  qiiolalion'.  will  maks 
it  Bumclendy  erldenl,  llml  Aciffnon,  via  not  Romt,  it  here 
alluded  lo  by  PeLrajcb. 

The  appUcaHoD  that  Is  rando  of  Uiom  praphwie*  by  two 
men  so  emlitont  for  Iheir  loemlaa  and  SBEerlty  aa  Danle  and 
PeUarcb  lo,  however,  very  remarkHble.  ioA  tnaM  be  satis&c- 
lory  lo  IhoBE  who  have  renoUDced  Ibe  elton  and  currapUoDt 
or  Ibe  mpacy.    Such  applicatloni  were  Indeed  l>eqaeQI  La 


Penareh'fl  Ibne,  reuded  at  Avigaoa.  ^really  lolbe  dlHparai^ 
lucQLof  themBelv«a,  as  he  thau^hl,  and  especially  of  Itoiue ; 


the  Lalcran  by  Consianllne  to  Sylveiler.  of  nblcb  tenle 

m  eiuo  ullqna  dl|nluiea  per  Canilaatlniuu  eMenl  Hllenala; 
<ui  dftnnl)  sb  Iniporio,"  fcc.Ub.iil.    '■Tberefore  lu  nuAs  a 


119-135.  HELL,  Canto  XX.  I47 

Not  thy  conveiBioii,  bat  that  plenteous  dower, 
Which  the  firat  wealthy  Father  gam'd  from  tiiee." 

Meanwhile,  as  thus  I  fnmg,  he,  whether  wrath 
Or  conscience  smote  him,  violent  upsprang 
Spinning  on  either  sole.    I  do  believe 
My  teacher  well  was  pleased,  with  so  composed 
A  lip  he  listened  ever  to  the  sound 
Of  the  true  words  I  utter'd.     In  both  arms 
He  caught,  and,  to  his  bosom  lifting  me. 
Upward  retraced  the  way  of  his  descent 

Nor  weary  of  his  weight,  he  press'd  me  close, 
Till  to  the  summit  of  the  rock  we  came. 
Our  passage  from  the  fourth  to  the  fifth  pier. 
His  cherish'd  burden  there  gently  he  placed 
Upon  the  rugged  rock  and  steep,  a  path 
Not  easy  for  the  clambering  goat  to  mount. 

Thence  to  my  view  another  vale  appeared. 

CANTO  XX. 


ABGUMENT. 

The  Poet  relates  the  pnnishment  of  such  as  presumed,  while 
living,  to  predict  future  events.  It  is  to  have  their  fitee« 
reversed  and  set  the  contrary  way  on  their  limbs,  so  that, 

rent  in  the  empire  exceeds  the  lawful  power  of  the  emperor 
himself  If,  then,  some  dignities  were  by  Constantino  alien- 
ated (as  they  report)  from  the  empire,  &c/'  In  another  part 
of  the  same  treatise  he  speaks  of  the  alienation  with  less 
doubt,  indeed,  but  not  with  loss  disapprobation  :  "  O  felicem 
populum !  O  Ausoniam  te  gloriosam  I  si  vel  nunquam  infir- 
mator  imperii  tui  extitisset;  vel  nunquam  sua  pia  intentio 
ipsum  feiellisset." — "  O  happy  people  I  O  glorious  Italy !  if 
either  he  who  thus  weakened  thine  empire  had  never  been 
born,  or  had  never  sulfered  his  own  pious  intentions  to  mis- 
lead him.**    Lib.  ii.  adfinem. 

The  gift  is  by  Ariosto  very  himiorously  placed  in  the  moon, 
among  the  things  lost  or  abused  on  earth : 

Di  varj  fiori  ad  un  gran  monte  passa, 
Ch'  ebber  gi^  buono  odore,  or  puzzan  forte, 
Questo  era  il  dono  (se  perb  dir  lece) 
Che  Costantino  al  buon  Silvcstro  fcce. 

Orl.  Fur.,  c.  xxxlv.  st.  80. 

Milton  has  translated  both  this  passage  and  that  in  the 
text.    Prose  Works,  vol.  i.  p.  11,  ed.  17.')3. 

Ah,  Constantino  I  of  how  much  ill  was  cause 
Not  thy  conversion,  but  those  rich  domains 
That  the  first  wealthy  pope  received  of  thee. 

Then  pass'd  he  to  a  flowery  mountain  green. 
Which  once  smelt  sweet,  now  stinks  as  odiously ; 
This  was  that  gift,  if  you  the  truth  will  have, 
That  CozutantJne  to  good  Silvester  gave. 


I4B  TlIE  VISION.  1-30. 

eanitrelDed  evsr  lo  wkIIi  bacliminh.    Ammif  ibete  V[cgU 
Ifram  the  menllDii  ul  -wham  be  lakss  occuton  ui  tpaak  oC 
hut  pncLiwd  Ihe  nrls  of  diTioa^a  and  as^oer. 
And  now  the  verse  proceeds  to  taimentB  Dew, 
Fit  orgumeat  of  this  the  twentieth  slrain 
Of  the  first  aong,  wlioeo  awful  theme  records 
The  B[nrits  whelm'd  in  wo.     Eoinest  I  look'd 
Into  the  depth,  that  opcn'd  to  my  view, 
Momten'd  with  tears  of  angiiiiih,  and  beheld 
A  tribe,  that  came  along  the  hollow  vole. 
In  silence  weeping :  such  their  step  as  walk 
Quires,  clionthig  soli<mn  litanies,  on  enrth. 

As  on  them  more  direct  mine  eye  desceitds. 
Each  wonderously  seem'd  to  be  reversed' 
At  t)ie  neck-boQo,  bo  that  the  countenance 
Was  from  the  reins  averted  ;  and  because 
None  might  before  him  look,  they  were  compell'd 
To  advance  witli  backward  gait.     Thus  one  perhaps 
Hath  been  by  force  of  palsy  clean  transposed. 
But  I  ne'er  saw  it  nar  believe  it  so. 

Now,  reader !  think  within  thyself,  so  God 
Fruit  of  thy  reading  give  thee  !  how  I  long 
Coutd  keep  my  visage  dry,'  when  I  beheld 
Near  me  onr  form  distorted  in  such  guise. 
That  on  the  hinder  parts  fallen  irom  the  Ibcb 
The  tears  down-streanung  roU'd.     Against  a  ror 
I  lean'd  and  wept,  so  that  my  guide  eielaim'd; 
"  What,  and  art  thou,  too,  witless  as  (he  rest  1 
Here  pity  most  dotli  sliow  herself  alive, 
When  she  ie  dead.    What  guilt  exceedeth  his, 
Who  with  Heaven's  judgment  in  his  passion  strives  T  'I 
Raiee  up  thy  hfad,  raise  up,  and  see  the  man  ■ 

Before  whose  eyes'  aurtb  gaped  in  Thebes,  when  bQ  I 

Bui  very  uaMnlli  BlEhl  was  lo  behuld 
How  he  did  fajhlonTii!  nnlDWKf  il  pux  i 


Bolb  fiHi  and  face  ddb  way  us  wont  lo  InuL  _ 

Sp  BK!rr,  Faery  Queen,  b.  1.  c.  rlU.  it  KM 


31-46.  HELL,  Canto  XX.  149 

Cried  out,  <  AmphiaraCUi,  whither  nuheet  7 
Why  leavest  thou  the  war  7'    He  not  the  leM 
Fell  rukdng'  far  as  to  Minos  down, 
Whose  grapple  none  eludes.    Lo  !  how  he  makes 
The  breast  his  shoulders ;  and  who  once  too  far 
Before  him  wish'd  to  see,  now  backward  looks, 
And  treads  reverse  his  path.    Tiresias'  note, 
Who  semblance  changed,  when  woman  he  became 
Of  male,  through  every  limb  transformed ;  and  then 
Once  more  behooved  hun  with  his  rod  to  strike 
The  two  entwining  serpents,  ere  the  plumes. 
That  mark'd  the  better  sex,  might  shoot  again. 

"  Aruns,^  with  rere  his  belly  facing,  comes. 
On  Luni's  mountains  midst  the  marbles  white. 
Where  delves  Carrara's  hind,  who  wons  beneath, 
A  cavern  was  his  dwelling,  whence  the  stars 

who  besieged  Thebes.  He  is  saflflhave  been  swallowed  up 
by  an  opening  of  the  earth.  BeeXldfate's  Storie  of  Thebes, 
part  iii.,  where  it  is  told  how  the  *'  Bishop  Amphiaraiis"  ftll 
down  to  hell : 

And  thus  the  devill,  for  his  ontrages, 
Like  his  desert  payed  him  his  wages. 

A  different  reason,  for  his  being  doomed  thus  to  perish,  is 
assigned  by  nndar : 

h  S*  * A-iKJudpijif  &c.       JWm.  ix 

For  thee,  Amphiaraiis,  earth. 
By  Jove's  all-riving  thunder  cleft, 
Her  mighty  boson}  open'd  wide, 
Thee  and  thy  plunging  steeds  to  hide, 

Or  ever  on  thy  back  the  specur 

Of  Periclymenus  impress'd 

A  wound  to  shame  thy  warlike  breast 

For  struck  with  panic  fear 

The  gods'  own  children  flee. 

1  Ruininff.] "  Rulnare."  Hence,  perhaps,  Milton,  P.  L.,  b.vi.  868. 

Heaven  ruining  from  heaven. 

'  Tiresias.] 

Duo  magnorum  viridi  coSuntia  sylvft 

Corpora  serpentum  baeuli  violaverat  ictu, 
Deque  viro  factus  (mirabile)  foemina,  septem 
Egerat  autnmnos.    Octavo  rursus  eosdom 
Vidit.    Et,  est  vestnc  si  tanta  potentia  plage, 
Nunc  quoque  vos  feriam.    Percussis  anguibus  isdem 
Forma  prior  rediit,  genitivaquc  vcnit  imago. 

Ovid.  Met.,  lib.  iii. 

s  .^runs.]  Amns  is  said  to  have  dwelt  in  the  mountains 
of  Luni,  (from  whence  that  territory  is  still  called  Lunigiana,) 
above  Carrara,  celebrated  for  its  marble.  Lucan.  Phars.,  lib. 
i.  575.  So  Boccaccio,  in  the  Fiammetta,  lib.  iii. :  "  Quale 
Arunte,"  &c.  "  Like  Aruns,  who  amidst  the  white  marbles 
of  Luni  contemplated  the  celestial  bodies  and  their  moUons." 
Compare)  FaxJo  d^li  Uberti,  Dittamondo,  1.  iii.  cap.  vl. 


^ 

,  ....  "1 

H^r  bosom,  which  tbou  apeet  not  (fur  each  hair      ]^^l 

On  that  BJdo  grows)  was  Munlo,'  she  who  searoh'd^ 

Through  many  regions,  Htidat  lenglh  her  seat 

Fix'd  in  my  nativt>  Land;  wbeaue  a  short  epaoe 

My  words  detain  Ihy  audieiioe.     Wboa  her  sin 

From  life  departed,  and  In  servitude 

The  city  dedicate  to  Bacchus  tnoiim-d,                             ■ 

Long  time  she  went  a  wanderer  through  the  world.'  H 

Aloft  in  Italy's  delightful  land                                            ■ 

A  lake  tliere  lies,  at  foot  of  that  proud  Alp                 -^H 

That  o'er  the  Tyrol  locks  Gcrmania  in,                      ^H 

Its  name  Broacus,  from  whose  ample  hreast            ^^1 

A  thousand  aprings,  methinks,  and  more,  betncett^^H 

Camonica'  and  Garila,  iBsiiing  forth,                            ^^^| 

Water  the  Ape  nnine.  There  is  a  spot'  ^^H 
At  midway  of  that  Ljft  where  ho  who  bears           ^^| 

Of  Brescia,  and  the  Veronose,  might  each                  J^l 

Faaaing  that  way  his  benediction  givo.                          ^^| 

A  garrison  of  goodly  slle  and  strong'                                  ■ 

1  Jfaj.M.1    Thoda^ehl8^Df■nrealBaofThebl«,ftdtyl^ed^ 

calBd lo Bsccbiis.  PmmMsniQ.MiuitUB.llieconouyofVlrgU, 

of  Ihal  place.    Dul  xes  Ibe  nnle  lo  Purgaloty,  Canto  mU. 

•  Cmofl'W]    Lomlnrdl,  Inslaid  of                                       ^k 

Fra  Girdu,  e  viU  Camonica  e  Aiwnnlno,                          ^1 

™''"F™Gar..evalC^.,..P™„U..                                ■ 

the  netiinil  codjnncUnB,  the  only  pml  of  the  alWratiaii  ihiit 

aflfecu  Ih«  sense.    IhavB  iB-translaloil  Um  ihmki™,  which  la 

Uie  foimei  ediUoos  lUod  ibm : 

which  «  ihonaand  rills 

Camoolca  and  Gaida.  and  the  tielghl                                fl 

Itshnoldtw  adiled  that  Vellalello  nsds  '- Vuldimonloa"  Jb^H 

"  VsL  CaaionlcB ;"  but  whlcb  oT  Ibeso  U>  rf^I  mnalni  U  M^H 
Asurmlneit  by  a  catluQcn  of  ediHons  and  MBS.  aad  sdU  lUlil^H 

■  fi^f.  I  lyoi.l    Piaio  dL  Fams,  where  Iha  dlwun  jjtf^| 

Trenlo,  Vemnn,  and  nrescSa  meal.                                     ^^H 

Qazs,  bclln  e  fnrle  araese                                    ^^H 

Da  (h>iiUE«lor  1  »gal  dl  Soria.                               .^^B 

jj                                                                   Ta.<u,n<T.  IA^<.t.U.ini^H 

|L  ^_^_^^-,^^B 

^^■^■^^IH 

00-103.  HELL,  Canto  XX.  151 

Peschiera*  stands,  to  awe  with  front  o]^x)0ed 
The  Bergamese  and  Brescian,  whence  the  shore 
More  slope  each  way  descends.     There,  whatsoe'er 
Benacus'  bosom  holds  not,  tumbling  o*er 
Down  falls,  and  winds  a  river  flood  beneath 
Through  the  green  pastures.     Soon  as  in  his  coorso 
The  stream  makes  head,  Benacus  then  no  more 
They  call  the  name,  but  Muicius,  till  at  last 
Reaching  Govemo,  into  Po  he  falls. 
Not  far  his  course  hath  run,  when  a  wide  flat 
It  finds,  which  overstretching  as  a  marsh 
It  covers,  pestilent  in  summer  oft 
Hence  journeying,  the  savage  maiden  saw 
Midst  of  the  fen  a  territory  waste 
And  naked  of  inhabitants.     To  shun 
All  human  converse,  hero  she  with  her  slaves, 
Plying  her  arts,  remained,  and  lived,  and  left 
Her  body  tenantless.     Thenceforth  the  tribes, 
Who  round  were  scattered,  gathering  to  that  place, 
Assembled ;  for  its  strength  was  great,  enclosed 
On  all  parts  by  the  fen.     On  those  dead  bones 
They  rear'd  themselves  a  city,  for  her  sake 
Callmg  it  Mantua,  who  first  chose  the  spot. 
Nor  ask'd  another  omen  for  the  name ; 
Wherein  more  numerous  the  people  dwelt. 
Ere  Casalodi's  madness^  by  deceit 
Was  wrong'd  of  Pinamonte.     If  thou  hear 
Henceforth  another  origin*  assigned 
Of  that  my  country,  I  forewarn  thee  now. 
That  falsehood  none  beguile  thee  of  the  truth." 
I  answer'd,  "  Teacher,  I  conclude  thy  words 
So  certain,  that  all  else  shall  be  to  me 
As  embers  lacking  life.     But  now  of  these. 
Who  here  proceed,  instruct  me,  if  thou  see 
Any  that  merit  more  especial  note. 

1  Peschiera.]  A  garrison  situated  to  the  south  of  the  lalce, 
where  it  empties  itself  and  forms  the  Mincius. 

>  CasalodVs  madness.]  Alberto  da  Casalodi,  who  had  got 
possession  of  Mantua,  was  persuaded,  by  Pinamonte  Bnona- 
cossi,  that  he  might  ingratiate  himself  with  the  people,  by 
banishing  to  their  own  castles  the  nobles,  who  were  obnox- 
ious to  them.  No  sooner  was  this  done,  than  Pinamonte  put 
himself  at  the  head  of  the  populace,  drove  out  Casulodi  and 
his  adherents,  and  obtained  the  sovereignty  for  himself. 

>  Another  origin.]  Lombardi  refers  to  Servius  on  the  Tenth 
Book  of  the  iEneid.  Alii  a  Tarchone  Tyrrheni  fratre  condi- 
tam  dicunt  Mantuam  autem  idco  nominatam  quia  Etrusca 
lingua  Mantum  ditem  patrem  appellaDt, 


153                          THE  VISION.                        IM-IH. 

Tor  thereon  ia  my  mind  aione  intent"               [cheek 

He  Btroiglit  replied:    "Tbal  spirit,    from  whoss 

TliB  beard  Birceps  o'erluB  Bhauldere  brown,  what  linie 

Grsciii  was  emptied  of  ber  muies,  that  scarce 

la  AubB,  who  with  Calchaa  gave  the  sign 

Wlien  first  to  cut  the  cable.     Him  the;  named 

Eurypilus:  so  sings  my  tragic  strain,' 

In  which  majestic  measure  well  thou  know'sl, 

Who  ktiDw'H  it  all.     That  other,  round  the  loins 

So  slender  of  bis  shape,  was  Michael  Scot," 

1  SmingamnCrngic^tmix.] 

Suipeul  EorypUam  iclcamm  oracala  Phirbl 

MllllldU..  ^                                 firg.  JEsriJ.,  11.  14. 

1  JTiokHj  Sal.)    ■•  Egt  i  nan  bA.  mnam  iniarl,  che  Id  qnssu 

Ulcbele  Bdo.10,  pendt  cho  dl  Stozia  enu"    »«««.«,  C«. 

G,.n..,Yll1.ni.v.9. 

'■  11  m  n.H  long  >lnra  Ibero  wh  In  Ibis  city  (Flojonee)  ■ 
ereil  masler  In  nwromBBcy.  who  wm  called  Hlclisle  eciiiw, 

because  he  was iWBuBtoUan.l."   BMaliioGloy.VllLanl.HUt, 

lib.  I.  Hin.  cv.  and  cUL  and  lib.  ilL  cap.  mil,  and  FaElodegU 
I  make  no  a^osy  fnr'^^lngttae'foLLowlDgcDrloiu  pulLsn- 

mSSIV™  ill  whShThappy'lue  ls"m«lB^of  Ibe  ni^r^ 
■Illloas  relaUng  to  the  Kohjncl  of  lht>  aole.    "SIf  BDcfaMl 

BcDll,  ofBalwenriB,  flirtirlshsii  during  iho  IWileanU.  centnir. 

was  a  maa  of  much  leuninE,  chiefly  ac^nlnd  In  Ibielia 

.1  Vunl™  in  1496,  and  sBvcml  IreaUsa  apon  aalmnl  pbtle- 

■ophy.  from  which  he  appear,  to  have  bean  additud  u,  thu 
[le.foraskQMniBglcLati.    Dempslm  Inlbtm  at,  thai  ho  m- 

nwnben  In  have  haanl  In  hia  yonlli,  Ihal  Ibe  maaLc  booki 

npcueiL  wLIhont  danger,  on  ecconal  of  the  Aeads  who  wen 
ificTEby   invoked.     Dompswn  Hisloria  Bcciesiaslica.  VST. 

Iha  meawy  of  Sic  Hieheel  BconiutvLvea  in  ffiany  a  legeSd: 

and  in  the  nulh  or  Bcotbuid  any  work  nf  great  labor  iuk) 

■nUqally  is  aaccLbed  either  lo  the  agencyof  Aold  HIchul,  of 

air  Afllliaid  Waibi.^e.  or  of  Iho  de?i].    Tcadlllnn  Tafi«  cos- 

ctrrnLBE  Ibe  place  of  hL>  burial:  ume  eoulend  Ibt  HolDe 

up™  ibai  hi.  book,  of  mafic  were  iniEired  in  bia  paw,  « 

piTBorred  in  Ibe  convent  where  he  dl8d."     HuLttrnfUt 

/ 

List  Mmllrd,  tf  H-ailtr  ScofI,   Ei-j.,  Loud.  410.  IHU,  p.  91^  ^H 

1 

—^ —J 

^——^ 

HELL,  Caxto  XX.  153 

1  eveiy  slight  of  magic  wile. 

"  Gnido  Booattl*  see ;  Asdentc*  mnrk, 
Who  sow  were  willing  he  hail  (ended  still 
The  thread  and  coldwain,  and  too  lale  repents. 

'■  See  neil  the  wretches,  who  the  needle  left. 
The  shuttle  and  the  epindle,  and  becams 
DinneTB :  baneful  witeberiee  they  wrought 
With  images  and  herbe.     But  onward  now: 
For  now  £ith  Coin  with  fork  o(  thorns*  conline 
On  either  hemisphere,  touching  the  wave 
Beneath  the  toweis  of  Seville.     Yesteniight 
The  lUTOn  was  round.    Thou  mayst  remember  Well : 


Mr.  Weit™.  .phH™  of  lb.  new  win. 

■Ilniu  nt  Aria 

nUe. 

frenltae 

urkd»]  Creek  mio  L,«Ua,  tbuo 

1  Iho  IwelAh 

^B 

enrei;  "I  believe  Ihe  tt-oslnln 

"3 

of  Ibrin:  wbi  wu  mdiud  li 

BW. 

UMlippe 

■n  u  bive  aiecDled  liU  IniK 

aUooi  aiTolei 

Ola 

^«'ijss=.jr,:r 

h^'™f  iST 

^ 

He  lesmed  Sm 
ol.  Ldtwettk 

nlaf. 

■    (/«!«,,./ fivf.-.*  P«(Ty,v 

■Bd 

jlmoni 

the  Cenonlcl  MSB.  In  the  Bodleian.  I  hare 

(N"5aC) 

d  Scat  on  ye 

wilban 

l>t«lniilnK. 

'f-j* 

kill 

ended  lo  him  u  Ibrtnoata  b;  BonslU. 

on  Oui  inbiccl  of  hli  on.  HacehluvEilj  oienllons  hlin 
...J  Hislory  orFloranco,  1, 1.  p.  S*.  eil.  ISSO.  "  He  flourished 
nntismnnd  13en.    ThouEb  a.  leaiosd  uKnnuniei.  he  wu 


).  1S13.  vol.  II.  p.  478, 


THE  VKION. 

rice  did  thee  in  the 
1."     This  Bail),  boll 

CANTO    XXI. 

ABGUMENT. 

BOO  in  Ihg  schlh  drcls,  which  bein  Ihe  mam  at  Halflbaln, 

Ibeylook  down  ttota  ths  brldgo  that  jnasea  over  lufinb 

plllnEfld  Jn  a  lake  of  bf^llng  l^tch.  uid  yarded  bf  DeJniHtB. 
lo  ivhnin  VliEll.  hmviiis  Ouile  ajmrt.  preHnis  blmielf ;  nnd 

Thus  we  from  bridge  lo  bridge,  with  other  talk. 
The  which  my  drama  cares  not  to  rebeane, 
Pusi'd  oil ;  and  lo  Ihe  nimmit  leacliing,  stood 
To  view  uuother  gap,  within  the  round 
Of  Malebolge,  other  buotleee  pangB. 

MarvellouB  darluiesg  sliadow'd  o'er  the  place- 
In  the  Venetians'  areenal'  as  bails 
Through  wintry  muiiths  tenacious  pitch,  lo  amear 
Their  unsound  vessels ;  fur  the  inclement  time 
Sea'faring  men  restraios,  and  in  that  while 
His  bark  one  buiids  anew,  anotliec  stopa 
TliB  ribs  of  his  thai  hath  made  many  a  voyage. 
One  hammeni  at  the  prow,  one  at  the  poop. 
This  shapetb  oora,  thot  othec  cables  twirls. 
The  mizon  one  repairs,  and  main-sail  rent ; 
So,  not  by  force  of  Gre  hut  art  divine, 
BoiI'd''  hero  a  gliilinona  thick  mass,  that  round 
Limed  all  the  shore  beneath.     I  that  beheld, 
Bui  therein  naught  distinguish'!!,  save  the  hnbhlea 
liluaed  by  the  boiling,  and  one  mighty  swell 
Heave,'  and  by  turns  subsiding  falL    While  there 


>  In  Ui  renrt 

OB.'  arieno/.] 

U  hlVH  had 

bsij^ge 

latbtlOMMMM 

(ico«)daieii*M 

..VI'S^Z'IL 

pulo!  mngaum 

■oniini  nunc  deoiwin  aeucDOeBiBiD. 


5B-&L  HELL,  Canto  XXI.  155 

I  fix'd  my  ken  below,  «  Mark !  mark !"  my  guide 
Exclaiming,  drew  me  towards  him  from  the  place 
Wherein  I  stood.     I  tam'd  myself,  as  one 
Impatient  to  behold  that  which  beheld 
He  needs  must  shun,  whom  sudden  fear  unmans. 
That  he  his  flight  delays  not  for  the  view. 
Behind  me  I  duscem'd  a  devil  black, 
That  running  up  advanced  along  the  rock. 
Ah !  what  fierce  cruelty  his  look  bespake  I 
In  act  how  bitter  did  he  seem,  with  wings 
Buoyant  outstretched  and  feet  of  nimblest  tread. 
His  shoulder,  proudly  eminent  and  sharp, 
Was  with  a  sinner  charged  ;  by  either  haunch 
He  held  him,  the  foot^s  sinew  griping  fast. 

"  Ye  of  our  bridge !"  he  cried, "  keen-talon*d  fiends ! 
Lo  !  one  of  Santa  Zita's  elders.*     Him 
Whelm  ye  beneath,  while  I  return  for  more. 
That  land  hath  store  of  such.    All  men  are  there, 
Except  Bonturo,  barterers  .•*  of  *  no* 
For  lucre  there  an  *  aye'  is  quickly  made." 

Him  dashing  down,  o'er  the  rough  rock  he  tum*d ; 
Nor  ever  after  thief  a  mastiff  loosed 
Sped  with  like  eager  haste.     That  other  sank. 
And  forthwith  writhing  to  the  surface  rose. 
But  those  dark  demons,  shrouded  by  the  bridge, 
Cried,  "  Here  the  hallowed  visage*  saves  not :  here 
Is  other  swimming  than  in  Serchio's  wave,^ 
Wherefore,  if  thou  desire  we  rend  thee  not, 
Take  heed  thou  mount  not  o'er  the  pitch."  This  said, 
They  grappled  him  with  more  than  hundred  hooks, 
And  shouted :  "  Cover'd  thou  must  sport  thee  here ; 
So,  if  thou  canst,  in  secret  mayst  thou  filch." 
E'en  thus  the  cook  bestirs  him,  with  his  grooms, 

>  One  of  SatUa  Zitd's  elders.]  The  elders  or  chief  magiii' 
trates  of  Lucca,  where  Santa  Zita  was  held  in  especial  ven- 
eration. The  name  of  this  sinner  is  supposed  to  have  been 
Martino  Botaio. 

*  Except  RonturOj  barterers.]  This  is  said  ironically  of 
Bontnro  de'  Dati.  By  barterers  are  meant  peculators,  of 
every  description ;  all  who  traffic  the  interests  of  the  public 
for  their  own  private  advantage. 

>  7%e  halloto'd  visage.]  A  representation  of  the  head  of  our 
Saviour  worshipped  at  Lucca. 

*  Is  other  swimming  than  in  Serchio^s  wave.] 

dui  si  nuota  altrimentl  che  nel  Serchio. 

Serchio  is  the  river  that  flows  by  Lucca.    So  Pulci,  Morg. 
Bla^.,  c.  xxiv. 

Qui  si  nuota  nel  aangae,  e  non  nel  Serchio. 


156 


THE  VISION, 

caldcQD  down 

a  the  top. 


To  thiDBt  the  flesh'  uito  I 
With  fleah-haoks,  thst  :t 

Mb  then  my  guide  beapako ;  "  Leat  (hey 
That  thou  art  here,  behind  a  craggy  fok 
Band  low  and  acreen  tliee:  and  wnnte'er  of  forea 
Ba  ofii.T'd  nio,  or  hiBuit,  fear  thou  iiot ; 
For  I  aui  well  advised,  wlio  havo  been  erst 
In  the  lite  ftay."     Beyond  Ihe  bridge's  head 
Therewith  he  posa'd  ;  und  reaching  the  Bixtb  piei 
Behooved  lum  then  a  forehead  lerror-proof. 

With  storm  and  fury,  OB  when  dogs  rush  forth 
Upon  the  poor  mon'a  bick,  who  suddenly 
From  whence  he  staudeth  makeg  his  suit ;  bo  rUBh^ 
Tlioae  from  beneath  the  arch,  and  against  him 
Their  weapona  bII  they  poiuled.     He,  aland : 
"  Be  none  o(  you  outrageouB:  ere  your  tine 
Dure  seize  me,  come  forth  from  among  yon  one. 
Who  having  heard  my  worda,  decide  he  then 
If  he  shall  (ear  these  limbs."     They  Bhouted  loud, 
"  Go,  Malaeoda !"    Whereat  one  adraneed, 
The  others  standing  liim,  and  as  ho  came, 
"  What  may  this  turn  avail  him  ?"  he  eiclaim'd. 

"Believest  thou,  Malacoda!  1  had  come 
Thus  far  from  all  yoiu'  ekirmiahing  secure," 
My  teacher  anawer'd,  "  without  will  divine 
And  destiny  propitious  7    Pasa  we  then  ; 
For  eo  Heaven's  pleasure  is,  that  I  should  lead 
Another  through  this  savage  wildemesi." 

Forthwith  so  fell  his  pride,  that  be  let  drop 
The  instrument  of  torture  at  his  feet. 
And  [a  Ihe  rest  eiclaim'd  :  "  We  have  no  [>over 
To  strike  hhn."     Then  to  me  my  guide  :    "O  thon! 
Wlio  on  the  bridge  among  the  crags  dost  sit 
Iriiw  omuching,  safely  paw  to  me  return."        [fiends 

I  roee,  and  towards  him  moved  with  speed ;  the 
Meanlime  all  forward  draw ;  me  terror  aeiied, 
Leat  they  should  break  the  compact  they  had 
Thus  issuing-  from  Caprona,"  once  I  saw 
Th'  infantry,  dreadhig  lest  his  covenant  [i 

The  foe  should  hreai ;   so  close  be  bemm'd 


II 


"il 


or  Idoicoc  wim  *imacuua,  siirr  u  : 


■  II-  ^ 

..»K* 


If.  - 


n   .  I  .    I 


If 


•V^»~.- 


(• 


ur  Liioicoc  with  Malacoda,  stLrr^d : 


"■I 

m 


I 


■/'■.:  ^'itfjfwap: 


I 

I 

05-117.  HELL,  Canto  XXI.  157  I 

I  to  my  leader's  side  adhered,  mine  eyes 
With  fix'd  and  motionless  obsenrance  bent  I 

On  their  unkindly  yuage.    They  their  hooks 
Protruding,  one  the  other  thus  bespake : 
"  Wilt  thou  I  touch  him  on  the  hip?"     To  whom 
Was  answer'd :  "  Even  so ;  nor  miss  thy  aim." 

But  he,  who  was  in  conference  with  my  guide, 
Tum'd  rajMd  round ;  and  thus  the  demon  spake :  | 

"  Stay,  stay  thee,  ScarmigUone !"    Then  to  us 
He  added :  "  Farther  footing  to  your  step 
This  rock  aiK)rds  not,  shiverd  to  the  base 
Of  the  sixth  arch.     But  would  ye  still  proceed. 
Up  by  this  cavern  go :  not  distant  far. 
Another  rock  will  yield  you  passage  safe. 
Yesterday,'  later  by  five  hours  thui  now, 
Twelve  hundred  threescore  yean  and  six  had  filKd 
The  circuit  of  their  course,  since  here  the  way 
Was  broken.    Thitherward  I  straight  dispatch 
Certain  of  these  my  scouts,  who  shall  espy 
If  any  on  the  surface  bask.    With  them 
Go  ye :  for  ye  shall  find  them  nothing  fell. 
Come,  Alichino,  forth,'*  with  that  he  cried, 
"  And  Calcabrina,  and  Cagnazzo'  thou ! 

1  Yesterday,]  This  passage  fixes  the  era  of  Dante's  descent 
at  Good  Friday,  in  the  year  1300,  (34  years  f>om  our  blessod 
Lord's  incarnation  being  added  to  1366,)  and  at  the  thirty- 
fifth  year  of  onr  Poet's  age.    Sec  Canto  i.  v.  1. 

The  awfal  event  alluded  to,  the  Evangelists  infimn  ns, 
happened  "  at  the  ninth  hour,"  that  is,  our  sixth,  when  *'  the 
roclcs  were  rent,"  and  the  convulsion,  according  tu  Dante, 
was  felt  even  in  the  depths  of  Hell.    See  Canto  xii.  v.  38. 

*  CagTiazzo.]  Pulci  introduces  some  of  these  demons  in  a 
very  pleasant  adventure,  related  near  the  beginning  of  the 
second  Canto  of  his  Morgante  Maggiore : 

Non  senti  tu,  Orlando,  in  quel  la  tomba 
Gtnelle  parole,  ctae  colui  rlmbomba  1 

Jo  voglio  andai  a  scoprir  quello  avello, 
lA  dove  e'  par  che  quella  voce  s'oda, 
£d  escane  Cagnazzo,  e  Farfarello, 
O  Libicocco,  col  suo  Malacoda ; 
£  finalmente  s'accostava  a  quello, 
Perb  che  Orlando  qucsta  impresa  loda, 
E  disse ;  scuopri,  se  vi  Aissi  dentro 
duanti  ne  piovon  mai  dal  del  nel  centro. 

Stanze  30, 1. 

"  Perceivest  the  words,  Orlando,  which  this  fellow 
Doth  in  our  ears  out  of  that  tomb  rebellow  1 

"  ril  go,  and  straight  the  sepulchre  uncase, 

From  whence,  as  seems  to  me,  that  voice  was  heard; 

Be  Farfarel  and  Cagnazzo  to  my  face, 

Or  Libicoc  with  Malacoda,  stirrM :" 


159                        THE  VISION.                   llMaJTl 

And  Farfftrello,  and  mad  RnblcaDt.                              . 

Search  ;e  around  the  bubbling  tar.     For  these, 

In  aafcly  lead  tbem,  where  the  other  crag 

Ithen:  "OmaBler!'  what  a  raght  is  there!         4 

Ahl  without  escurt,  jaumey  we  alane, 

Which,  if  thou  know  the  way,  I  covet  not. 

Unlcw  thy  prudeace  foJI  thee,  dost  not  maA 

How  they  do  guarl  upon  ua,  and  their  scowl             ^ 

Threatens  us  prasenl  tortures  ?"     He  replied : 

"  I  chai^  thee,  feai  not ;  let  them,  as  they  will. 

Gnail  OQ :  'tis  but  ia  token  of  their  sjnte 

AeahiBt  the  eauls  who  mourn  in  tarmeat  steep'd." 
To  Itiiftward  o'er  the  pier  tliey  turn'd ;  but  each 

Had  tint  between  Ills  teeth  presa'd  cloae  the  tongne, 

■ 

Toward  their  leader  for  a  signal  looking. 

m 

1 

CANTO    XXII 

1 

ARGUMENT. 

I 

■ 

nee  Dibn  lUuHn  of  the  lune  descrlpHon  la  (he  HUH  gulf. 

The  deirtee  or  dampolo,  one  of  Ihose,  lo  euape  tma  the 

Demons,  who  had  loU  hold  on  blia. 

It  hath  been  heretofore  my  chance  to  sea 

Horsemen  with  martial  order  ehifLiug  camp. 

To  onset  sallying,  oi:  iu  muster  ranged,                    M 
Or  in  retreat  aoinetlmes  oulstretch'd  for  flight :       M 

■ 

■ 

■ 

Scouring  (by  gilaliis,  Arezzo !  have  I  seen,             H 

■ 

■ 

Now  with  the  sound  of  trumpets,  now  of  bells,       % 

1 

And  fioKlly  he  ilrew  neai  to  the  pises ;                             J 

Th-  BBprtifl  Orlando  pnHMng  with  ihi>  word:                  ■ 

■ 

"  UncMSB  il,  Ihnngh  within  u  minv  dwell, 

At  evei  were  fruin  taeavea  nln'd  down  lo  hell." 

neadDfOio^."    This  li  not  the  csw  M  lout  wllh  lAodl- 

•  ff.ttMini.lM^™  '^'iVlhe  orisi'^S^lh^l* 

phane»,Ni.bc».l«i:- 

L 

'                                              oriXmy^  t  irpunrlnliTT!.. 

1 

HELL,  CiKTO  XXn. 
Tabms,'  or  Hgn&ls  made  frocn  castled  heights, 
And  with  inveationB  multiform,  our  owu, 
Or  ialroduced  fruin  foreign  land ;  hut  ne'er 
To  Kuch  a  strange  recorder  1  beheld. 
Id  eTolutien  moving,  horse  nor  foot. 
Nor  ship,  that  tack'd  b;  sign  from  land  or  alar 

With  the  ten  domoOH  on  our  way  we  went ; 
Ah,  fearful  company  '.  but  in  the  church' 
With  BdinU,  with  glullonB  at  the  tavern's  mesa. 

Slill  earnest  on  the  pitch  I  gazed,  to  mark 
AU  Olinga  whate'er  the  chaam  contain'd,'  and  th 
Who  burn'd  within.     As  dolphins'  thai,  in  sign 
To  matiners,  heave  high  their  arched  backs, 
That  thence  forewam'd  they  may  advise  1o  savs 
Tbe'a  threnten'd  vessel ;  so,  at  intervals. 
To  ease  the  pain,  his  back  some  sinner  show'd. 
Then  hid  moie  nimbly  than  the  lightmug-glance 

E'en  as  the  frogs,  that  of  a  watery  moat 
Stand  at  the  brink,  with  the  jaws  only  out, 
Tbsic  feet  and  of  the  trunk  all  else  coiiceal'd, 
ThBs  on  eacli  part  the  sumera  stood  ;  but  eoon 
As  Barbariccia  was  at  hand,  so  they 
Drew  hack  under  the  wave.     I  saw,  and  yet 
My  heart  doth  staler,  one,  that  waited  thus. 
As  it  bi^falls  that  oft  one  Siog  remaJns, 
While  the  next  spriuga  away  :  and  Grafiiacaii,' 


am.niuK«ia«ompsBtBimlof 

HkL  lie  B.  Lnyi,  p.  3U."    WorCm's  Aiif.  "/  Engliti  Ptxt 
T.I.(4.p.lSf. 
'  Hi  rlie  cInmliJ]  This  pnretli  la  repealed  b;  Paid.   Ho 


Ohfl^D^Uon 

■  On^acanJi    Fuull,  in 
■aiTB.  Uui "  am  Mlitni  of 

Oie  ihlverliui  vr 
■biBllT  iBkRi  tm 
ADgMo't  Last  J 


160 


THE  VISION. 


Wlio  of  the  fiends  was  nearest,  grapplii 
HiB  clotted  locks,  and  dragged  hlin  spra 
That  liH  appoar'd  to  me  an  otter.  Eac 
Already  by  tbeir  nonies  I  kaew,  bo  we 
When  lUey  were  cboeen  I  observed,  an 
Haw  one  tbe  otber  cali'd.  "  O  KubicH 
See  tbat  this  bide  thou  with  thy  talons 
Shouted  logelber  all  the  cuised  crew. 

Then  I:  "Inform  tbee.Masteri  if  tboD  may, 

retcbed  soul  is  this,  on  whom  their  hemda    i 


d  maiVd 


side 


Approaeh'd,  and  whence 

AVas  answer'd  tbne  :  "  Bom  in  iNararra's  doinai 

For  she  had  borae  me  to  a  losel  vile, 
A  Bpeudlhrift  of  bis  substance  and  hinisel£ 
The  good  king  Thibanlt'  after  lliot  I  nerved ;" 
To  pecolatuig  here  my  Ibouehtu  were  lum'd. 
Whereof  I  give  account  in  wis  dire  heaL" 
Straight  Ciriatlo,  from  whose  mouth  a  tusk 


>  TM  gMi  Ufig  THiiaiUL]  '■•  ThlbMll  t.  King  of  Navarro, 
died  on  Cbe  8th  a  Jane.  1233,  u  mntb  lo  be  dominebdMl  Tor 
(hr  desire  be  ihowed  of  aiding  I)ie  war  la  Ihe  Holy  Land,  u 
repmbeniliile  and  ftully  for  hii  design  of  oppreailng  [he 


HELL,  Ca-vto  XSII.  J61 

ned  on  either  aide,  as  from  a  boat, 
Kipp'd  him  with  one  of  these.     'Twixt  evil  claws 
The  nmnse  had  fallen:  but  Barbariccia  eiied. 
Seizing  him  with  both  arniBi  "  Stand  tlioa  apart. 
While  I  do  fix  him  on  my  prong  tciuiBpiorced." 
Then  added,  tnmuig  to  my  guide  hia  face, 
'■  Incgaiio  of  him,  If  more  thou  wiah  to  learn, 
Ere  he  again  be  rent."     My  leader  thua: 
"  Then  tell  us  of  the  partners  la  thy  guilt ; 
KDOiTBBt  thaa  any  Bprung  of  Latian  land 
Under  the  tar?"—"  I  parted,"  he  replied, 

So  were  I  under  shelter  now  with  him, 

Nor  hook  nor  talon  then  should  scare  me  more." 

'■  Too  long  we  suffer,"  Libicocco  cried ; 
Then,  darting  forth  a  prong,  seized  on  his  arm, 
And  mangled  bore  away  the  ninewy  part. 
Him  Draghiuozzo  by  his  thighs  beneath 
Would  next  have  caught ;  wlience  angrily  their  chief, 
Turning  on  al!  aides  round,  with  threatening  brow 
Reslrain'd  them.     When  their  strife  a  little  ceased, 
Of  bim.  who  yet  was  gating  on  his  wound, 
My  teacher  thuB  without  delay  ioquu^d ; 
"  Who  was  tliB  spirit,  from  wlioiii  by  evil  hap 
Parting,  as  thou  hast  told,  ihou  earnest  to  shore  T"— 

--  '-       IS  the  friar  Gomita.""  he  rcjoin'd. 


••He, 


fGallur 


Who  had  hi 

And  tiaed  them  so  that  they  eommend  him  wall. 
Honey  he  took,  and  them  at  large  dismiss'd ; 
So  he  reports ;  and  in  each  other  charge 
Committed  to  hia  keeping  play'd  the  part 
Of  borterer  to  the  height    With  him  dolh  herd 
The  chief  of  Logodoro,  Michel  Zanehe.' 
Sardinia  is  a  theme,  whereof  their  tongue 
la  never  weary.    Out  I  alas  I  behold 
That  other,  how  ha  grina.     More  would  I  Bay, 
But  tremble  lest  he  mean  to  maui  me  Aire." 


183  THE  VBION. 

Theic  cftptain  tiien  to  FnrfBrello  turoiBg, 
Who  roll'd  lus  moony  eyes  in  act  to  Etrlke, 
Rebuked  him  thus  :  "  Off,  cursed  biM  1 

"  If  ye  desire  to  see  or  hear,"  ho  thu> 
Quaking  with  dread  leoumed,  "  or  Tuscan  q 
Or  Lombnrd,  I  will  cauee  them 
Meantime  let  these  ill  talons  bate  theic  fury. 
Ho  (hat  no  vengeance  they  may  (itar  from  U 
And  I,  remaining  in  this  self-same  place, 
Will,  for  myself  but  one,  make  seven  appear 
When  my  shrill  wliietle  shall  be  heard:  for  i 
Our  custom  id  lo  call  each  other  up." 

Cngnazzo  at  thnl  word  deriding  grinn'd, 
Then  wagg'd  the  head  and  apoke  :  '^  Hear  his  devicBt 
MischiovDus  as  he  is,  to  plunge  him  dov     " 


When 


Ofni 


"  If  th 


LO  f&il'd  a 
iflf,  to 


"Misc 


.  only  to  procore  myself  more  w 


n  rich  St 
mth,  exi 


te  Feat  gainsaying,  I 


n  beapake : 


.  but  above  the  pitch  will  boat 
My  plumes.     Quit  we  the  vantage  ground,  and  I 
The  hank  be  as  a  shield ;  that  wu  may  see. 
If  singly  thou  prerail  against  us  all." 

Now,  reader,  of  new  Bport  eipcct  lo  hear. 

They  each  one  tum'd  his  eyes  to  the  other  sli 
Ifo  first,  who  waa  the  hardest  to  persuade. 
The  spirit  of  Navarro  chose  well  his  time. 
Planted  bis  feet  on  land,  and  at  one  leap 
Escaping,  disappointed  their  resolve. 

Them  quick  resentment  stung,  but  hun  the  n 
Who  was  the  cause  of  failure ;  m  punmit 
He  thfrefore  sped,  exclaiming,  "  Thou  art  c 

But  httle  it  avail'd ;  terror  outstripp'd 
Hia  following  flight ;  the  other  plunged  beneal 
And  he  with  upward  pinion  raised  hb  hreast : 
E'en  thus  the  water-fowl,  when  she  perceivea 
Tlic  Ihlcon  near,  divca  instant  down,  whUe  he 
Enraged  and  spent  retires.  That  mockery 
In  Calcahrina  fury  slirr'd,  who  flew 
ARet  him,  with  deHire  cf  atrifo  inflamed 
And,  foe  the  barterer  had  'scaped,  so  tum'd 
His  talons  on  his  coinrodB.  O'er  the  dike 
In  grapple  close  they  join'd  ;  but  the  other  pi 
A  goshawk  able  to  rend  well  his  foe ; 
And  in  the  boiling  lalie  botU  fell.    The  hoal 


140-148.  HELL,  Camto  XXIIL  163 

Waa  umpire'  soon  between  them  ;  bnt  in  vain 
To  IHl  themselYes  they  strove,  so  fast  were  glued 
Their  pennons.     Barbariccia,  as  the  rest, 
That  chance  lamenting,  four  in  flight  dispatch'd 
From  the  other  coast,  with  all  their  weapons  arm'd. 
They,  to  their  post  on  each  side  speedily 
Descending,  stretch'd  their  hooks  towunl  the  fiends. 
Who  floundered,  inly  burning  from  their  scars : 
And  we  departing  left  them  to  that  broiL 

CANTO   XXIIL 

ARGUMENT. 

The  enraged  Demons  pnrsne  Dante,  bat  ho  is  preserved  firosi 
them  by  Virgil.  On  reaching  the  sixth  gulf,  he  beholds 
the  punishment  of  the  h3rpocrites ;  which  is,  to  pace  con- 
tinually round  the  gulf  under  the  pressure  of  caps  nnd 
hoods,  that  are  gilt  on  the  outside,  but  leaden  within.  He 
is  addressed  by  two  of  these,  Catalano  and  Loderingo, 
knights  of  Saint  Mary,  otherwise  called  Joyous  Friars  of 
Bologna.  Cbiaphas  is  seen  fixed  to  a  croM  on  the  fproand, 
and  lies  so  stretched  along  the  way,  that  all  tread  on  him 
in  passing. 

In  silence  and  in  solitude  we  went, 
One  first,  the  other  following  his  steps. 
As  minor  firiars  journeying  on  their  road. 

The  present  fray  had  tum'd  my  thoughts  to  mnse 
Upon  old  ^sop's  fable,*  where  he  told 
What  fate  unto  the  mouse  and  frog  befell ; 
For  language  hath  not  sounds  more  like  in  sense, 
Than  are  these  chances,  if  the  origin 
And  end  of  each  be  heedfuliy  compared. 
And  as  one  thought  bursts  from  another  forth. 
So  afterward  from  that  another  sprang. 
Which  added  doubly  to  my  former  fear. 

For  thus  I  reasoned :  "  These  through  us  have  been 

So  foird,  with  loss  and  mockery  so  complete, 

As  needs  must  sting  them  sore.     If  anger  then 

Be  to  their  evil  will  conjoined,  more  fell 

They  shall  pursue  us,  than  the  savage  hound 

Snatches  the  leveret  panting  'twixt  hie  jaws." 
Already  I  perceived  my  hair  stand  all 

»  l7«ptVe.j    Schennidor.   The  reader,  if  he  thinks  it  worth  , 

^ule,  may  consult  the  Proposta  of  Monti  on  this  word,  which,  ! 

With  Lomjjjy^j^  be  would  alter  to  sghermitor. 

^op'*  fable.]  The  fable  of  the  frog,  who  offered  to  car 
Klin  ?0Qae  across  a  ditch,  with  the  intention  of  drowning 
,ij^™n  both  were  carried  off*  by  a  kite.    It  is  not  among 

^  breek  &bles  whJcli  go  under  the  name  of  JEao^, 


164 


THE  VISION. 


Od  GDd  with  LerroE,  and  look'd  eager  back.  ^H 

'■  Teacher,"  1  thus  bogan,  "  if  spendily  ^H 

Thyself  and  me  thou  bide  not.  niucli  I  dread       ^1 
Tlioee  evil  taioae.     Even  now  Ijehind  ^ 

Tbay  urge  ob;  quick  imagiDation  worke 
So  forcibly,  thai  I  already  foel  them." 

He  answer'd ;  "  Were  1  form'd  of  leaded  glasa, 
1  aiiould  uot  Booiiei  draw  unto  myself 
Tliy  outward  image,  than  I  now  imprint 
Tliat  from  withiu.    This  mdmeut  came  Ihy  thoughts 
PreHeiiled  before  iiime.  with  ahnilar  act 
And  couoteuaiice  Bimilnr,  so  that  from  b 
I  one  desi^  have  framed.     If  the  right 
Iiicliue  eo  urach,  that  we  may  thence  dt 
Into  the  other  chasm,  we  shajl  Bseapo 
Secure  from  this  imagined  puisuit." 

He  had  not  B]iake'  liia  purpose  to  the  t 
When  I  from  far  beheld  Ibem  with  aprei 
Approach  to  take  us.     Suddenly  my  goidt 
Caught  me,  even  us  a  mother  tha'  ' 
la  by  the  noiae  amused,  and  near 
The  climbing  tires,  who  auBtchee  up  her  babe 
And  flies  ne'er  pausing,  careful  i 
Than  of  herself,  that  but  a  single  vest 
Clingaround  her  limbs.    Down  from  the  jutting  beach 
Supine  he  caal  him  to  that  pendent  rook, 
WhicJL  closes  on  one  part  the  other  ohasm. 

Never  ran  water  with  Buch  harrying  pace 

When  nearest  it  approachea  to  the  spokes, 
As  then  along  that  edge  my  master  ran, 
Carrying  mo  in  his  bosom,  as  a  child, 
Not  a  companion.      Scarcely  had  his  feet 
Kcadi'd  to  the  lowest  of  the  bed  beneath, 
When  over  na  the  steep  they  reaoh'd :  but  fear 
In  him  was  none  ;  for  that  high  Providence 
Which  placed  them  minlatera  of  the  fifth  torn, 
Power  of  departing  thence  took  from  them  all. 

There  in  the  depth  we  saw  a  painted  tribe. 
Who  paced  with  Inrdy  steps  a 


Idtine^B 

sleep         ^H 
babe         ^1 


I 


Vhlta.  HELL,  Canto  XXlll.  165 

Faint  in  apptaiuice  and  o'ercome  wilh  ttnL 
Caps  hud  (hc^y  on,  with  hoodB,  that  fell  low  down 
Before  Ihoir  oy«,  In  fashion  like  la  tlioee 
Worn  by  the  monks  in  Cologne.'     Theii  oulaide 
Was  overlaid  with  gold,  dazzling  to  view. 
But  leaden  all  within,  and  of  such  weight, 
That  FrederickV  compared  to  theeo  were  straw. 
Oh,  everlasting  wearisome  attiro  ! 

We  yel  once  more  with  (hem  together  (urn'd 
To  leftward,  on  their  dismal  moan  intent. 
Bui  by  the  weight  oppreas'd,  bo  slowly  came 
The  fainting  people,  that  onr  company 
Wa»  changed,  at  every  movement  of  the  stop. 

Whence  I  my  giiide  address'd:  "See  that  Ihou 

Some  sjnrit,  whone  name  may  by  hia  deeds  be  known ; 
And  to  that  end  look  round  Ihee  as  thou  go'st." 

Then  one,  wbo  naderBtood  the  Tascan  voice. 
Cried  after  UB  aloud  ;  "  Hold  in  your  feet. 
Ye  wbo  so  swiftly  speed  through  the  dusk  air. 
PerchDoce  from  me  tbou  ahalt  obtain  thy  wish." 

Whereut  my  leader,  tntning,  me  beapake  ; 
"  Pause,  and  then  onward  at  their  pace  proceed." 

I  stay'd,  and  saw  Iwo  spirits  in  whose  look 
Impatient  eagBmess  of  mind  was  mark'd 
To  overtake  me  ;  but  the  load  tiiey  bare 
And  narrow  path  retarded  their  approach. 

Soon  as  arrived,  they  with  an  eye  oaksnco 
Peruted  me,  but  spake  not :  then  turning,  each 
To  other  thiu  oonferhng  eold  :  "  This  one 
Seema.  by  the  action  of  his  throat,  alive ; 
And.  be  they  dead,  what  privilege  allows 
Tbey  walk  unmantled  by  the  cumbrouB  Mole?" 

Then  thus  to  me  :  "  Tuscan,  who  visitest 
The  college  of  the  mourning  hypocrites, 
Disdain  not  to  instruct  us  who  thou  art" 

'■  By  Amo's  pleasant  stream,"  1  thus  replied, 
"  In  the  gre.at  oily  I  was  bred  and  grew. 
And  wear  the  body  I  have  over  worn. 
Bnt  who  are  ye,  from  whom  snch  mighty  gneC, 
At  now  1  witness,  couraelh  down  your  cheeks? 
What  torment  breaks  forth  in  this  bitter  wo!" 


^w 


THE  VISION.  lOI-tttf 

ir  banneU  Reaming  bri^t  with  oran^  hue,"' 


One  of  ll 

That  with  their  weight  thay  make  the  biiiar 

"■  '    '  '    "'  Joyous  friais"  we 


Bol(«na's  natirea ;  Cataii 
He  Loderinsa 
Together  laki 


named  ;  and  by  thy  land 


A  single  and  iudiAerenl  artiitei, 

To  rpfioncilo  their  strifes.    How  there  we  aped, 

tinrdingu'a  viciiiflgo'  can  best  deelajo." 

"  U  triars ;"  I  began,  "  yoiir  nueeries — " 
Bill  there  brake  oftffor  one  had  caught  aaae 
Fix'd  to  a  cross  with  three  stakes  on  the  groit 
He,  when  be  saw  me,  writhed  hnnself,  througbnit 

■  Our  benn^U  Btmming  Irrighi  nitk  amtiiiB  ^ff.J  ll  !s  ob 
nerved  b>~  Vunmn.  thai  the  wurd  "  thhca"  driea  not  here  idf 
□Ify  "  rancid  or  JlpgustlUI,"  lu  It  Li  eiplaiopd  by  thu  old  com 

Uie  Pnijatgry,  CimlolL  ». 


J 


*  Ja^sKs  frbtrE'\    ^'TticMfl  who  rul6d  th0  city  Df  FtrVBacQ 

mutmoring.  which  Ihoy  were  l&rfliJ  m&hl  produce  &  rebek 
lion  a^tat  theAiBeLves,  In  ordpr  la  mdHly  Ihe  people,  randfl 
clialce  nT  two  knlihli.  Fmli  GoAsnll  (JoroDH  mun)  of  Bo- 
logoa.  on  whom  ttifly  cdaliinHd  the  chlaC  power  la  Flormee ; 
obe  biuned  M-  Gatalnaa  dc'  MalavoEli,  the  other  M.  Lodorioflo 
lU  Uandolo;  one  an  adherent  of  Ibe  Goelph,  Ibe  other  of  Iba 
OhlbelUne  party.  Tl  is  lo  be  nmarked,  thai  Ibe  Joyooi 
Filan  were  ceiled  Knights  nf  SI,  Mary,  and  beciune  ini^lili 


the  rounder  of  thai  erd 

ler  against  ihe  Abbey.    Bncli  wu 

lonKlng  to  Ihe  people, 

ttuiimh  inclined  lo  nppoalle  parties,  they  secretly  and  hypo- 
eilUcBlly  coneiured  In  pnonollng  theh  own  sdvantafD  nlhei 
than  the  pobUc  KOOd,"     O.  Viilani.  b.  vU.  c.  13.    Thl>  bap- 

■  Oariirfa't  Tixitiort-l    The  name  nf  that  onrl  nflhe  city 
which  was  inhabited  by  Ihe  pnerfnl  GhitielllDa  liiinily  oT 


f 


I1SH9I.  HELL,  Canto  XXIIL 

Dbloiteil,  roffliii^  witli  deep  sighs  his  bsnrd 
And  Cntalajio,  who  Ihereof  wax  'wore, 
ThoH  Bpake:  "TJiat  pierced  spiril,'  whom  iuleni 
TboD  rrew'et,  was  he  who  gave  the  Fiiariseea 
Connael,  Ihal  it  were  Rtliag  fnr  one  man 
To  BoSer  foHBie  people.     He  dotli  lis 
TrsoBTetse ;  nor  niiy  paues,  but  him  Grst 
BeliDOTea  make  reeling  trial  how  Bacb  weigjis. 
Id  straits  like  this  along  the  foss  are  placed 
The  father  of  hie  cansort,'  and  the  rest 
FartakeiB  in  that  comicil,  seed  of  il) 
And  sorrow  to  the  Jews."     1  noted  then 
How  Yirgil  gazed  with  wonder  upoji  him, 
Thw  abjectly  eitended  on  the  croie 
In  banishment  eternal.     To  the  friar 
Hb  neit  faia  words  addreaa'd  :  "  We  pray  ye  tell. 
If  so  he  lawful,  whether  oil  our  right 
Lies  any  opeuiug  in  tlie  rock,  whereby 
We  both  may  issue  hence,  without  coaatraint 
On  the  dark  angein,  that  compell'd  they  comn 
To  lead  ua  from  this  depth."     He  lliiia  replied  ; 
"  Nearer  than  thou  dost  hope,  there  is  a  rock 
From  the  great'  circle  movuig,  whioli  o'erstepe 
Eaoh  rale  of  horror,  sbto  that  here  his  cope 
Is  shalter'd.     By  the  ruin  ye  ir 
For  on  the  side  it  slants,  and  m 

Ri*ee6elan  

My  leader  stood  ;  then  spake :  "  He  warii'd 
Who  yonder  bangs  the  sinners  on  \ik  hook." 

Towhamlhe&iar:  "  At  Bologna  erst 
I  many  vices  of  the  devil  heard  ; 


ingtli 


'He  I 


of  Ileal'"     When 

My  leader  with  large  strides  procc 

Somewhat  disturb'd  with  auger  in 

I  tlierefore  left  the  apuits  heavy 

And,  following,  his  beloved  footstej 


t  nupi^ 

■erf™ 

.xi 

'bw 

•  TkcfuOLtr  o/i 

rl. 

la  the 

fnm" 

nrt 

.    Cm 

vlll.4*.     D, 

uils  hsd  perbapj 

THE  VISION. 
CANTO   XXIV. 


difliGULIy  inskei  bia  my  onl  of  Ihe  Blitb^nlf:  ud  In  the 
■dveDlh.  nn  (he  robben  tdrmenled  liy  vvMatotii  end  pot- 
lllenl  wrpenn.  The  ionliif  ViiniilFuccl,whahadpillefed 
Ibe  udility  Qf  Ssint  Jamei  Ln  Piiicria,  prcdicu  loaie  es- 
Inmlllsi  Ihnl  iippended  ovcir  thai  clij,  uid  ocer  Ibe  Fiona-    , 

In  the  jeai'e  eatly  nonage,'  when  Ihe  son 
Tempers  bis  tresses  iu  Aquuriue'  uni, 
And  now  tawards  pqual  day  the  nigbta  recede  ; 
When  aa  tho  rime  upon  (he  earth  puUi  on 
Her  dazzling  eistei's  image,*  but  not  long 
Hor  milder  sway  endures  ;  then  riseth  up 
Tho  village  hind,  whom  fails  his  wintry  store,* 
And  looking  out  beholds  the  plain  liround 
All  whiten'd  ;  whence  impatiently  ho  smites 
His  thighs,  and  to  his  hut  returning  in. 
There  paces  1o  and  fro,  wailing  his  lot, 
As  a  discomfited  and  helpless  man  ', 
Then  comes  he  forth  again,  and  feels  new  liope 
Spring  in  his  bosom,  finding  e'en  thus  soon 
liie  world  hath  changed  its  eauiitenance,  grasps  his 
And  forth  to  pasture  drives  hia  little  flock  :       [crook, 
So  me  my  guide  disliearlen'd,  when  I  saw     i 
His  troubled  forehead  ;  and  so  speedily 
That  ill  was  cured  ;  for  at  llie  fuUen  bridge 
Arriving,  towards  me  with  a  look  as  sweet. 
Ho  turn'd  him  back,  bb  that  I  Bmt  beheld 
At  the  steep  mountain's  foot.     Regarding  wall 
The  ruin,  and  nomei  coonsel  first  maintain'd 
With  his  own  Ibougbt,  he  opon'd  wide  his  arm 

^  jAtJu  y«f->  Barljf  Hffivifv.]    "  At  the  latter  part  of 
uury*  wbeti  (Iw  nan  SEiUrg  uilo  Aquarlui,  wad  Ibe  equlnajc  Li 
dmwJng  ii«iir,wheD  Ibe  hou-ttnlB  In  IbvnuiminB  often  wewr-j 
thfl  apiiearaaceornJiuvr,  Ltit  an  melted  by  lliB  iIMdes — "    " 

AiyvLiir  fi/Xa^vat,  dJdAifv  -wbfibi  K4cn- 

.Mickfl.  Si^Iflx  OnOra  Tkttat.  V.  490,  Bin 


r)i.5(i!...p«,i..J/™. 


i 


HELL,  Ciwro  XXIV.  igH 

le  up.    As  one,  who,  while  he  works, 
Caoipulei)  hiB  labor'a  iDue,  that  lie  seems 
Still  (o  foresee  Che  eSect ;  eo  lirtiog  me 
Up  ta  the  summit  of  one  peak,  he  fii'd 
tBs  ef  e  upon  nnotber.     "  Grapple  that," 
Sdd  he,  "  bat  Rret  make  proof,  if  it  be  snch 
Aa  will  Bustain  thee."     For  one  capp'd  wMi  lead 
Thia  were  no  journey.     Scarcely  he,  though  light. 
And  I,  tbougb  onward  puah'd  from  crag  to  crag, 
Could  momil.    And  if  the  precinct  of  this  coast 
Were  not  lesa  ample  than  the  last,  for  him 
1  know  not,  but  my  etrength  had  surely  faii'd. 
But  Malebolge  all  toward  the  mouth 
Inclining  of  the  netliennoat  abyea, 
The  «te  of  every  valley  hence  requires, 
That  one  side  upward  slope,  llie  other  fall. 

At  length  the  point  ftoni  whence'  the  utmost  stons 
Jnta  down,  we  reaeh'd  ;  soon  m  to  that  arrived, 
!ki  was  Ihe  breath  exhausted  from  my  lungs, 
I  could  no  further,  but  did  seat  me  there. 

"  Now  needs  thy  best  of  man  ;"  so  spake  my  guide : 
"  Far  not  on  downy  plumes,'  nor  under  shade 
Of  canopy  reposing,  fame  is  won  ; 
Without  which  whoKoe'er  consumes  his  days, 
Leaveth  such  veatiga  of  himself  on  earth, 
Aa  smoke  in  air,  or  foam  upon  the  wave. 
ThoQ  therefore  rise :  vanquish  thy  woarmeaa' 
By  the  mind's  eSort,  in  each  struggle  form'd 
To  vanquish,  if  she  eofCet  not  the  weight 
Of  her  corporeal  frame  to  cruab  her  down. 

I  i'Vfffi  vAnfv.]    Mr.  Cnrlyle  DOIea  the  miaiiihe  la  my  fbr- 

LflUor,  m  dtt  poD«ar  ehe,  wjiza  ordini, 
Fuoa  HcqnliIaT.  oe  grsn  COBS  tbnilre. 
Neuon  oui  per  togffr.  o  per  ripuio. 


170  THE  VISION. 

A  lon^r  ladder  yet  remains  to  acaia. 
From  these  to  have  escaped  suffiGetfa  not. 
If  well  thou  note  me,  profit  by  tnj-  words." 

I  Btraightway  rose,  aud  ehow'd  myeulf  less  spentJ 
Than  I  in  tnitb  did  feel  me.     "  On,"  I  criod, 
"  For  I  am  atoot  and  faarlesa."     Up  thu  rock 
Our  way  we  held,  mora  ragged  llian  before. 
Narrower,  sad  Bteeper  far  to  ciirab.     From  talk 
1  ceased  not,  as  we  jouiDey'd,  no  to  seem 
Least  fsiat ;  whereat  a  voice  frutn  the  other  ibm 
Did  issue  forth,  for  utteruiCB  suited  ill. 
Though  00  the  arch  that  croBBes  there  1  stood. 
What  were  the  words  1  knew  not,  but  who  s^nki 
Seem'd  moved  in  anger.    Down  I  stoop'd  to  look 
But  my  quick  eye  might  reach  not  to  the  depth 
For  Bhrouding  darkuesa ;  wherefore  thus  I  spake 
■■To  the  next  circle,  teachM,  bend  tliy  steps. 
And  liom  the  wall  dismount  wo  ;  for  na  hence 
I  hear  and  uudoratand  not,  so  1  see 
Beneath,  and  naught  discern." — "  I  answer  Doti" 
Said  he,  "  but  by  the  deed.     To  fair  request 
SUent  performance  moketh  but  retum." 

We  from  the  bridge's  heed  descended,  where 
To  the  eighth  mound  it  joins  ;  and  then,  the  ohi 
Opening  to  tIbw,  I  saw  a  crowd  v, 


:aiLs,  thai 


Yet  shrmkB  the  vitid  current.     Of  her 
Let  Lybio.  vaunt  no  more  ;  if  Jaeulua, 
Fareas  and  Chelyder  be  her  brood, 
Cenchris  and  Amphiabffna,  plagues  so  dire 
Or  in  snch  nnmbeis  swarming  oe'er  she  show'd,    . 
Not  with  all  Ethiopia,  and  whate'er 
Above  the  Erytbneau  sen  lb  spawn'd. 
Amid  this  dread  exuberance  of  wo 
Ran  naked  spiritB  wing'd  with  horrid  Seal, 
Nor  hope  had  they  of  crevice  where  to  hide, 
Or  heliotrope'  to  charm  them  out  o" 

borrlrlaiD   ll 


iplond 

glUn,!. 

«-m.  HELL,  CiSTo  XXIV,  171 

Wrth  serpentB  were  their  hands  behind  thom  bonnd, 

Which  LhroDgh  their  reina  iniix'd  the  [ail  and  head, 

Twisted  in  folds  before.    And  lo !  on  one 

Near  to  onr  »de,  darted  an  adder  up, 

And,  wben  the  neck  is  an  the  shouldeis  tied, 

Transpieroed  him.     Far  more  quickjy  than  e'er  pea 

Wrote  O  or  I,  he  kindled,  bum'd,  and  changed 

To  asbes  all,  pour'd  out  upon  the  earth. 

When  there  dissolved  he  lay,  the  dust  again 

Uproll'd  BpontaneoiDi,  and  the  self  same  form 

Instant  resumed.     So  mighty  sages  tnll, 

The  AraWan  Phionii,'  when  five  hundred  years 

Have  well-nigh  circled,  dies,  and  springs  forthwith 

Reoascent :  blade  nor  herb  throughout  his  life 

Ho  tastes,  but  tears  of  frankincense'  alone 

And  odonnis  amomum:  swaths  nf  nard 

And  myrrh  hii  funeral  shroud.    As  one  that  falls, 

Hb  knows  not  how,  by  force  demoniac  dragg'd 

To  earth,  or  through  obalruotion  fettering  up 


lent"    £iiiMii.'.ii.  Yiil.Nfj!™™''     ™ 
's  Ru^KlBro,  ScallttiDeDUi  hep  of  &061L.  w, 


n  Negrnmanie,  ■.  3.  a.  3.    Pule).  « 


1  nt  Jlr^ua   PAai.ii.]     Thil   is  IransLalell   from   C 

Una  Ml  qoB  repaiat,  ipqnp  Ipsa  r^emlnBT  nle^ ; 
Assyrll  Pho^Lca  vocuiE.    Nee  fiaRe  Deiiue  herbjs. 


a  gurgeoiu  UescrlpILoR  of 


172  THE  VISION.  llii-1 

In  chsiiw  invinble  tho  powen  of  mui, 

Who,  risen  from  his  Irance,  gaielh  arauod, 

Bcwildei'd  with  Ihe  monstroua  agony 

He  hath  endured,  and  wildly  ataring  ugha ; 

So  Mood  aghast  the  ainnec  when  he  rose. 

Oh  !  how  seTers  God's  judgment,  that  deals  onl 
Such  UowB  in  etomiy  vengeance.    Who  he 
My  teacher  next  inquired  ;  and  thus  in  fen- 
He  aiiBwer'd :  "  Vaimi  Fucci'  am  I  call'd. 
Not  long  since  rained  dawn  from  Tuscany 
To  this  dire  gullcL     M.e  Ihe  bestial  life 
And  not  the  human  pleased,  mule  that  I  wa 
Who  in  PiBtoia  found  my  worthy  den." 

I  then  to  Vir^l :  "  Bid  him  stir  not  hence 
And  aek  what  crime  did  thnuit  him  hither :  nnoe 
A  man  1  knew  him,  choleric  and  hloody." 

Tho  sinner  heard  and  feign'd  not,  hut  towaida  aw 
HIb  mind  directing  and  his  face,  wherein 
Was  dismal  aliome  depictured,  thus  he  spake: 
"  It  grieves  me  more  to  have  been  caught  by  IbeB 
In  thb  sad  plight,  which  thou  beholdsst,  tbui 
When  I  was  taken  from  tlie  other  life. 
I  have  no  power  jienuiltad  to  deny 
What  tliou  inquirest    I  am  daom'd  thua  lov 
To  dwell,  for  (haf  tho  aacristy  hy  mo 
Was  rifled  of  its  goodly  ornaments, 
And  with  the  guilt  another  falsely  charged. 
But  that  tliou  mayst  not  joy  to  see  me  thus. 
So  OB  thou  e'er  ehalt  'scape  this  darksome  re^m. 
Open  thine  ears  and  hear  what  I  forehode. 
Reft  of  the  Neri  first  Piatoia'  pines  ; 
Then  Florence*  changeth  citizens  and  laws ; 

Cueli  Mchl  Inlamo  sinpldo  mliando, 
Si  come  I'EpUenUco  da  suole, 

Frcizt,  a  Qsiufrir,  lib.  IL  cap.  Ul. 
I  Vnni  FWci.J  Be  1b  saJd  to  hare  beon  u  Ille^Hiniile 
oQ^piingoflho&inUvDrLaEflii  In  Ptsu^  uid.  baving  robbeil 


114-150.  HELL,  CiXTO  XXV.  173 

From  Valdimagra.'  drawn  by  wrathful  Mara, 
A  vapor  riBCH,  wrapt  in  lurbid  niitits, 
Aud  flharp  and  eager  driveth  on  tlic  stonn 
With  arrowy  hnrtiing  o'er  PIcodd'h  field, 
Wbeacfl  Haddenly  the  cloud  shall  buret,  eud  Btriko 
Euh  helplesH  Biaoco  prostraEe  to  {he  ground. 
This  have  I  told,  that  grief  may  rend  thy  heart." 

CANTO   XXV. 


When  he  hod  spoke,  the  eiuucr  raised  his  haodB" 
Pointed  in  mockery,  and  cried  :  "  Take  them,  God  ! 
■  JVhi  raldiaiaffTa.']    The  cumuiEntaInn  eKpls.ln  EhLa  pm- 

qnlB  MonlLo  MBlBaTrina  of  ValdfmoKra,  (q  tmcL  of  counlry 
now  e&JLeil  the  LDDlg^Juvi,)  whu  puL  kimaelf  n(  the  head  of 

OmpD  PTeena,  Brmr  Pinlula.  sdou  nflur  I'he  occUTrBnca'  rolotsd 
IbUw  precedlDg  note  aay.'"*^""'  .... 

ID  Oerinl.  MeDHUIe  Blailcti< 

ilie  tthole  biliary  of  Ititi  Monun.  or  otaroel 

wban  kt  nppenn,  ^M  iilIliniiEn  on  (be  pres 
tfupoDiied  eoolnry  nldet,  luoil  ImpDftaal  fs 

pBTtoiDflUllBl"-   '-'"■ 


t'i^-^'ir. 


i.4 


InFreul; 


AidTriaIno: 

DtiumilD:  Tpgll,  Iddlo;  i 


pfl,  Hiid  lor  wAoy  np»  bail  been  denominated  '  mnklRH 
— .  -IB.'  or  descrilicd  al  leant  by  aome  equlvoleat  efpreaslon." 
Dtmel't  niturnliixu  of  SMaUpiart.  vol.  I.  p.  411!,  Ed.  1BQ7. 
The  puiBge  In  the  orlKlnal  leil  hai  Dot  earaped  thli  dlllgonl 


THE  VISION. 
1  level  them  tl  thee."    From  Ihat  day  forth 
The  BerpenU  were  my  friende ;  iar  Rjund  his  n| 
One  of  Ihem  rolUiig  twisted,  aa  it  sud. 
"  Be  silent,  tongue  1"     Another,  to  his  amu 
UpgUding,  tied  Ihem,  riveliug  itself 
So  close,  it  took  from  tbem  Ine  poirer  to  uu 

Pialoii !  ah,  Pialoia  I  why  dost  doubt 
To  turn  thee  into  ashes,  cumbenng  earth 
No  longer,  since  in  evil  act  so  for 
Thou  hast  outdone  thy  seed  !'    I  did  not  mark. 
Through  all  the  eloomy  circles  of  the  abyss, 
Spirit,  that  snell^l  so  proudly  'gainst  bin  Uod  ; 
Not  bun,'  who  iioadlong  fell  from  Thebes.    He  fled, 
Nor  utter'd  more  ;  and  after  biin  there  cams 
A  centaur  full  of  fury,  shouting,  "  Where, 
Where  is  tlie  caitiff?"     On  Maremma's  maish' 
Swarm  not  the  serpent  tribe,  sa  on  his  haunch 
They  swatm'd,  to  wbere  the  human  face  befpna- 


■irlr.      ■ 


1 


"  Cocua*  is  this,  who  undomeath  the  rock 
Of  Aventme  spre  ad  oft  a  lake  of  blood. 
He,  from  bis  brethren  ported,  here  must  tr^d 
A  difieiont  jaamDy,  for  bis  handful  thott 
Of  the  great  berd  that  near  him  slall'd;  whence  found 
His  felon  deeds  their  end,  beneath  the  mace 
Of  stoQt  Alcides,  that  perchance  laid  on 
A  hundred  blows,'  and  cot  the  tenth  was  felt." 
While  yet  he  spake,  the  centaur  sped  away : 
And  under  ub  three  spirits  came,  of  whom 
Nor  I  nor  lie  woa  ware,  till  they  excloim'd, 
"  Say  who  are  yo  !"     We  then  brake  off  discomgg^ 

ift,  befell,  that  one 
iier.    "  Where,"  said  h«^ 
1,   or  a  sign  my  gnida    ' 
placed  Bg^nst  my  lips 


I  of  Uie  hmlly  of  DnUI 


41HIS.  HELL,  Camto  XXV.  175 

The  finger  lifted.    If,  O  reader !  now 
Thou  be  not  apt  to  credit  what  I  tell, 
No  marvel ;  for  myself  do  scarce  allow 
The  witness  of  mine  eyes.     But  as  I  look'd 
Toward  them,  lo !  a  serpent  with  six  feet 
Springs  forth  on  one,  and  fastens  full  upon  him : 
His  midmost  graspM  the  belly,  a  forefoot 
Seized  on  each  arm  (while  deep  in  either  cheek' 
He  flesh'd  his  fangs)  ;  the  hinder  on  the  thighs 
Were  spread,  'twixt  which  the  tail  inserted  curl'd 
Upon  the  reins  behind.     Ivy  ne'er  clasp'd* 
A  dodder'd  oak,  as  round  the  other's  limbs 
The  hideous  monster  intertwined  his  own. 
Then,  as  they  both  had  been  of  burning  wax. 
Each  melted  into  other,  mingling  hues, 
That  which  was  either  now  was  seen  no  more. 
Thus  up  the  shrinking  paper,'  ere  it  bums, 
A  brown  tint  glides,  not  turning  yet  to  black. 
And  the  clean  white  expiree.     The  other  two 
Look'd  on,  exclauning,  "  Ah !  how  dost  thou  change, 
Agnello  !^     See  !  Thou  art  nor  double  now. 
Nor  only  one."     The  two  heads  now  became 
One,  and  two  figures  blended  in  one  form 
Appeared,  where  both  were  lost.    Of  the  four  lengths 
Two  arms  were  made :  the  belly  and  the  chest, 

1  In  either  cheek.]  Ostendit  mihi  post  hoc  apostolus  lacom 
magnum  tetrum,  et  aqus  sulphures  plenum,  in  quo  anima- 
rnm  multitude  demeraa  est,  plenum  scrpentibus  ac  scorpioni- 
bus ;  stabant  vero  ibi  et  deemones  serpentes  tenentes  et  ora 
vultus  et  capita  hominum  com  eisdem  serpentibus  percuUen- 
tes.    Mberici  Fisio,  ^  23. 

2  Ivy  ne'er  elasp*d.\ 

'Oiroia  jciacds  6pudf  Brras  r^aS''  i^ofiat. 

Euripides,  Hecuba^  v.  103. 
Like  ivy  to  an  oak,  how  will  I  cling  to  her ! 

•  7%it«  up  the  shrinkirur  paper.]  Many  of  the  commentators 
suppose  that  by  ''  papiro*°is  here  meant  the  wick  of  a  lamp 
or  candle,  and  Lombardi  adduces  an  extract  from  Pier  Cre- 
scenzio  (Agiicolt.,  lib.  vl.  cap.  Ix.)  to  show  that  this  use  was 
then  made  of  the  plant  But  Tiraboschl  has  proved  that  pa- 
per made  of  linen  came  into  use  towards  the  latter  half  of  the 
fourteenth  century,  and  that  the  inventor  of  it  was  Pier  da 
Fabiano,  who  carried  on  his  manufactory  in  the  city  of  Tre- 
vigi ;  whereas  paper  of  cotton,  with,  perhaps,  some  linen 
mhced,  was  nsea  during  the  twelfth  century.  Stor.  ddla  Lett. 
Ital.y  tom.  V.  lib.  i.  cap.  iv.  sect.  4. 

All  my  bowels  crumble  up  to  dust. 

I  am  a  scribbled  form,  drawn  with  a  pen 
Upon  a  parchment ;  and  against  this  fire 
Do  I  shiink  up.         Shakspeare,  K.  John,,  act  v.  sc.  7. 

4  Agndlo.]    AgneUo  Brunellescbi. 


I 


The  thighs  and  legs,  iaiD  such  members  changed 
Aa  never  eye  hath  Beeu.     Of  farme!  ahape 
All  trace  was  vaiiish'd.     Tvo,  yet  neither,  eeem'd 
That  image  miscrente,  and  so  pnas'd  ~  ~ 

With  

Off" 

Shifting  from  brake  to  brake  the  Ih 

A  flash  of  lightning,  if  he  thwart  the  road  ; 

So  loHard  the  ent[a,ils  of  the  other  two 

Approaching  seem'd  an  adder  ail  on  fire, 

As  the  dark  pepper-grain  livid  and  swart. 

In  that  part,'  whence  our  life  is  nouriBh'd  fiist. 

One  he  transpierced  ;  then  down  before  him  fell 

Btretch'd  out.     The  juerced  spirit  look'd  on  him, 

But  spake  not ;  yen,  stood  molionlesa  and  yawn'd, 

As  If  by  sleep  or  feverous  fit  assail' d.' 

He  eyed  the  eerpent,  and  the  serpent  him. 

One  from  the  wound,  the  other  from  the  mouth 

Breathed  a  thick  smoke,  whose  vapory  columnB  jolo'l),  J 

Lucon'  in  mnte  attention  now  may  hear, 
Nor  thy  diaaslrons  fate,  Sabellna,  tell. 
Nor  thine,  Nasidina.    Ovid'  now  be  mute. 
What  If  in  warbling  fiction  he  record 
Cadmus  and  Arethusa,  to  a  snake 
Him  changed,  and  her  into  a  fountain  clear. 

Two  natures  thus  transmuted  did  he  suig, 

The  other's  suliBtance.     They  in  mutual  gniss 
So  answer'd,  that  tlie  serpent  split  his  train 
Divided  to  a  fork,  and  the  pierced  B)urit 
Drew  close  his  steps  together,  legs  oud  thighs 
Compacted,  that  oa  sign  of  juncture  hood 
Was  visible :  the  tail,  disparted,  took 
The  figure  which  tbe  spitit  lost ;  its  skin 
Sollening,  his  indurated  to  a  rind. 
The  shoulders  next  I  mark'd,  that  entering  Join 


■  I. 

kalparQ 

Thana 

el. 

'■* 

ifiV.1^ 

«-/«mi 

m^fit  -MsfCiJ 

ad 

LdlOWB-d 

asleep, 

Jim  Jmu 

tS^*-. 

.  im  snd  733. 

id.]      MBf 

109-138.  HELL,  Canto  XXV.  177 

The  monster's  ann-pits,  whose  two  shorter  feet 

So  lengthen'd,  as  the  others  dwindling  shrunk. 

The  feet  behind  them  twisting  up  became 

That  part  that  man  conceals,  which  in  the  wretch 

Was  cleft  in  twain.   While  both  the  shadowy  smoke 

With  a  new  color  veils,  and  generates 

The  excrescent  pile  on  one,  peeling  it  off 

From  the  other  body,  lo !  upon  his  feet 

One  upright  rose,  and  prone  the  other  fell. 

Not  yet  their  glaring  and  malignant  lamps 

Were  shifted,  though  each  feature  changed  beneath. 

Of  him  who  stood  erect,  the  mounting  mce 

Retreated  towards  the  temples,  and  what  there 

Superfluous  matter  came,  shot  out  in  ears   [dragg'd, 

From  the  smooth  cheeks;  the  rest,  not  backward 

Of  its  excess  did  shape  the  nose  ;  and  swellM 

Into  due  size  protuberant  the  lips. 

He,  on  the  earth  who  lay,  meanwhile  extends 

His  sharpen'd  visage,'  and  draws  down  the  ears 

Into  the  head,  as  doth  the  slug  his  horns. 

His  tongue,  continuous  before  and  apt 

For  utterance,  severs ;  and  the  other's  fork 

Closing  unites.    That  done,  the  smoke  was  laid. 

The  soul,  transformM  into  the  brute,  glides  off. 

Hissing  along  the  vale,  and  after  him 

The  other  talking  sputters ;  but  soon  tumM 

His  new-grown  shoulders  on  him,  and  in  few  | 

Thus  to  another  spake :  "  Along  this  path 

Crawling,  as  I  have  done,  speed  Buoso'  now !" 

So  saw  I  fluctuate  in  successive  change 
The  unsteady  ballast  of  the  seventh  hold :  ^ 

And  here  if  aught  my  pen'  have  swerved,  events 
So  strange  may  be  its  warrant.     O'er  mine  eyes  ^ . 

Confusion  hung,  and  on  my  thoughts  amaze. 

Yet  scaped  they  not  so  covertly,  but  well 
I  mark'd  Sciancato  :*  he  alone  it  was 

1  His  sharpened  visage.]  Compare  Milton,  P.  L.,  b.  x.  511,  &c. 

3  Buoso.']  lie  is  also  said  by  some  to  have  been  of  the 
Donati  family ;  but  by  others  of  the  Abbati. 

>  My  pen.]  Lombard!  justly  prefers  "  kl  penna'*  to  "  la 
lingua;"  but,  when  he  tells  us  that  the  former  is  in  the 
Nidobeatina,  and  the  latter  in  the  other  editions,  he  ought  to 
have  excepted  at  least  Landino's  of  1484,  and  Vellutello's  of 
1544,  and,  perhaps,  many  besides  these. 

*  Sciancato.]  Puccio  Sciancato,  a  noted  robber,  whoso  fam- 
ily, Ventuii  says,  he  has  not  been  able  to  discover.  The 
Latin  annotator  on  the  Monte  Cassino  MS.  informs  us  that  he 
was  one  of  the  Galigai  of  Florence,  the  decline  of  which 
house  is  mentioned  in  the  Paradise,  Canto  xvi.  96. 

12 


THE  VISION. 


CANTO    XXVI. 


Kemounllne  by  Ilie  glein,  dnnn  whicli  the 

iivor  the  eighLh,  nnd  fniin  IheDce  bahDld  number 
wbflreln  BIB  pqnlahod  the  iivilcoDPBetlan,  each 

Florence,  eimlt]  for  than  bo  mightilf 
Hast  thriven,  that  o'er  land  and  8ea°  thy  wi 
Thou  heatest,  and  thy  nomB  spreada  over  fa 
Among  the  plunderers,  aaeh  the  three  I  fou 
Thy  ciliieoa ;  whence  shame  to  me  tliy  soi 
And  no  proud  honor  to  thyself  redoiinda. 

But  if  our  minds.'  -when  dienming  neai  the  dawii(  >  I 
Are  of  the  truth  pmogeful,  thou  ere  long 
Sliilt  feel  what  Prato*  (not  to  say  the  rest) 
Would  fain  might  come  upon  Ihee ;  and  that  ct|uia9   1 
Were  in  ^ood  time,  if  it  liefell  thee  now.  " 

Would  SD  it  were,  since  it  must  needs  befall! 
For  aa  time'  wesrs  me,  I  shall  grieve  the  more. 

We  from  the  depth  departed  ;  and  my  guide 

1  Oattillc]    FrancesFD  Guercio  Cavakanu  wu  hilled 


1  spread  ihy  name  o'l 
'.1 
cem]  lempote  vc 


JVIltn,  Sm.  vHi. 
HI  if  our  Bind..! 


I 

1 

I 


les  nblch  neia  iddh  u  befkltUs  na^  rlly.  and  wUCt), 
ys,  evee  hu-  neaieal  neighbor,  Fnco,  woold  wlih  bar. 
»lHmil[es  uiDK  parUculaily  palmed  at  an  uld  to  be  Iba 
f  a  nnoden  biidge  avEr  Iba  Amn,  in  Hay.  13M.  where  k 


Ihe  fnllowing  month  dHBUeyed  more  than  Hvealeen  hon- 
I  dred  hooHi,  oiany  of  tbsni  aumplnont  buUdlon.    See  O. 

I  Vlllani.  Ht)l..]ili.vllLc1ii.andhc>i.  ^ 

i  Am  timi.-\    "  I  shall  THi  all  CBlamlUea  more  HnilblTH  C  _H 

tsm  farlher  BdvanoeA  tn  VUbT  '^H 


a-t7.  HELL,  CiHTO  SXVI.  178 

Kenuninlitig  scaled  the  fliniy  alpiw,'  which  Jute 
We  donaward  traced,  aud  drew  me  up  the  Bleep. 

Puimiing  Uiua  our  eolilary  way 

Among  llw  crags  and  epiintew  of  the  rock, 

Sped  not  OUT  feet  without  the  help  of  haoda. 

Then  sorrow  seiied  loe,  which  e'en  now  roTivea, 
Aa  my  Ihoughl  lurns  again  lo  what  I  mw, 
And,  more  Itmn  I  am  wont,'  I  rein  and  curb 
The  powen  of  nature  m  me,  le«t  they  ran 
Where  Virtue  gmdta  not;  that,  if  aughl  of  food 
My  gentle  star  or  eamelhmg  better  gave  me, 
I  envy  not  myself  the  pTecious  boon. 

A>  in  that  Eeasoa,  when  the  aim  least  veil* 
His  face  that  hghtens  all,  what  time  the  fly 
Girea  way  to  the  shrill  gnat,  the  peasant  then, 
Upon  some  cliff  reclined,  heneuth  him  neea 
Fire-flies  uummiiTonH  spangling  o'er  the  vale. 
Vineyard  or  tilth,  where  hu  dny-Iahor  lies; 
With  flames  so  uumberleaa  Ihraughout  its  space 
Shone  the  eighth  chtinn,  apparent,  when  llio  depth 
Waa  lo  my  view  exposed     As  1ik,  whose  wranpi' 
The  bears  avenged,  at  its  departure  aaw 
Elijah's  chariot,  when  the  steeds  erect  [while, 

Raised  their  steep  Sight  for  heaven ;  his  eyes,  raean- 
Straining  pursued  them,  till  the  ilame  aloiiE, 
UpsDBFing  like  a  miaty  speck,  he  kenu'd ; 
E'en  thus  along  the  gidf  moves  every  flame, 
A  aluner  so  enfolded  cioae  in  each. 
That  none  eihibils  token  of  the  thefL 

Upon  the  bridga  I  forward  bent  lo  look, 
And  grasp'd  a  fliuty  inaaa,  or  elso  had  fallen, 
Though  push'd  uut  from  the  height.  The  guide,  who 
How  1  did  gaze  attentive,  thus  began:  [mark'd 


ri.  4iRe[  Oaultna  and  V 

Ol|)l,«I- 

llwi  jmjMl  ftdm  K  wail,  & 

Kher  buUdlDEi  w  be  J 

ftomlMUlneDTcoDda 

'  .S#  *B  IfJiWC  B^ai-J.;     ill 

-g;  b  a.  c.  ]i. 

^^ 

180  THE  VISION.  4S-78. 

"  Wilhia  ttipse  ardors  aro  ths  spirits,  eaoh 

Swathed  in  coiifining  fire." — "  Master '.  thy  word," 

I  answer'd.  "  linlli  asaured  me  ;  yat  I  deem'd 

Alrraily  of  the  inilh,  already  wiah'd 

To  ask  thee  who  is  in  yon  fire,  that  comes 

So  parted  at  the  euinmit,  ae  it  aeom'd 

Ascending  from  that  funeral  pile'  where  lay 

The  Tlieban  brothers,"     He  replied:  "  Within 

Ulysses  there  and  Diomede  endure 

Their  penal  tortures,  tbun  to  vengeance  DOW 

Together  hastuig,  as  erewhile  to  nralh. 

These  in  the  flame  with  cease  less  groa^iB  deplon 

The  ambush  of  the  holrse,'  that  open'd  wide 

A  portal  for  that  gnodly  seed  to  pass, 

Which  Bow'd  imperial  Rome ;  nor  leas  the  gnile 

Lament  Ihey,  whence,  of  het  Achilles  'reft, 

Deidainia  yet  in  death  complains. 

And  there  is  rued  the  stratagem  that  Troy 

Of  her  Palladium  spoii'd." — "  If  they  have  power 

Of  uttsratice  from  within  these  sparks,"  sdd  I, 

"  O,  master !  think  my  prayer  a  thousand  fold 

In  repetition  orged,  thut  thou  vouchsafe 

To  pause  till  here  the  homed  flame  arrive 

See,  how  toward  it  with  de^ra  I  bend." 

He  thus :  "  Thy  prayer  is  worthy  of  much  praise. 
And  I  accept  it  therefore  ;  hut  do  thou 
Thy  tongue  refram :  lo  question  tliem  be  mine  ; 
For  I  divine  thy  wish ;  and  thay  perchance,    [thee." 
For  they  were  Greeks,'  might  shun  disconreo  with 

When  there  the  Qaiae  had  come,  where  tinie  and 
Seem'd  fitlmg  to  my  gniide,  he  thus  began:      [place 


IS 

dame  Is  nid  u 

ftirionB  in  Ilaly 

exM 

■  At  Obi)  wgrc  Oreekl.]  By  this  it  tl,  peThftpS,  implied 
thai  Ihejr  wen  hanghly  and  arrogant.  So,  la  our  Foel'i 
twentT-unrth  SonneL,  of  whicb  a  uraiulaliDa  Is  Inserted  lb 
(tie  Ufa  prellied,  h^  aays, 


■*-^ 


•MNUIL  HELL.  CAiPfo  XXYL  181 

**  O  ye,  fdio  dw«ll  two  qniti  in  one  Bn ! 

I^  Imng,  I  of  ymi  did  merit  angfat, 

Whate'er  the  meaeiire  wen  of  that  toert. 

When  m  the  worid  my  lofty  etram  I  poor'd. 

Move  ye  not  on,  till  one  of  vou  unfdm 

In  what  clime  death  o'ertook  hhn  eelf-deetroy'd.'' 

Of  the  old  flame  forthwith  the  greater  hom 
Began  to  roll,  mnrmniing,  as  a  fire 
That  lahors  with  the  wi^  then  to  and  fro 
Wagging  the  top,  as  a  tongue  uttering  sonndfi 
Threw  out  its  voice,  and  s^ftke :  <<  When  I  eaciqped 
From  Circe,  who  beyond  a  circling  year 
Had  held  me  near  Caieta'  by  her  charms. 
Ere  thus  JSneas  yet  had  named  the  shore  ; 
Nor  fondness  for  my  son,*  nor  reyerence 
Of  my  old  father,  nor  return  of  love. 
That  should  have  crown'd  Penelope  with  joy, 
Could  overcome  in  me  the  zeal  I  had 
To  explore  the  world,  and  search  the  ways  of  life, 
Man's  evil  and  his  virtue.    Forth  I  sail'd 
Into  the  deep  illimitable  main,' 
With  but  one  bark,  and  the  small  faithful  band 
That  yet  cleaved  to  me.    As  Iberia  far. 
Far  as  M arocco,  either  shore  I  saw. 
And  the  Sardinian  and  each  isle  beside 
Which  round  that  ocean  bathes.    Tardy  with  age 
Were  I  and  my  companions,  when  we  came 
To  the  strait  pass,^  where  Hercules  ordain'd 
The  boundaries  not  to  be  o'erstepp'd  by  man. 
The  walls  of  Seville  to  my  right  I  left. 
On  the  other  hand  already  Ceuta  pass'd. 

*  O  brothers !'  I  began,  *  who  to  the  west 

*  Through  perils  without  number  now  have  reach'd ; 

*  To  this  the  short  remaining  watch,  that  yet 
'  Our  senses  have  to  wake,  refuse  not  proof 

1  Oiteta.]    ViigU.  .£neid,  lib.  vii.  1. 
9  JW^  fondness  for  my  son,]    Imitated  by  Tasso,  O.  L.,  e. 
Viii.  8t  7. 

Ne  timor  di  fatica  b  di  perif^io, 
Ne  vaghezza  del  regno,  ne  pietade 
Del  vecchio  genitor,  si  degno  affetto 
Intiepedir  nel  generoso  petto. 
This  imagined  vo3rage  of  Ulysses  into  the  Atlantic  is  alln< 
ded  to  by  Pulci : 

E  sopratatto  commendava  Ulisse, 
Che  per  veder  nell*  altro  mondo  gisse. 

Morg.  Maggot  c.  xzv. 
And  by  Tasso,  6.  L.,  c.  zv.  35. 
*  TkestraUjHus.)    TZie  sOaito  or  Gibraltar. 


to 


182  TTTE  VISION.  IH^IJS. 

'  Of  the  unpeopled  world,  foHowing  Iho  track  ] 

'  Of  Phiebua.     Call  to  mind  from  whence  yo  sprang! 

•  Ye  ware  not  form'd  to  live  Iho  life  of  brulaB, 

'  But  TirtUB  to  pureuB  and  knowledge  high.' 

With  thcBH  few  words  1  shaipeu'd  for  the  voynge 

The  mind  of  my  asaociales,  that  I  then 

Could  scarcely  have  withheld  them.     To  the  dawn 

Our  poop  we  lum'd,  and  for  the  witless  flight 

Made  our  oan  wings,'  still  gaining  on  the  left. 

Each  star  of  the  other  pole  night  now  beheld,* 

And  ouis  HO  low,  that  bom  the  ocean  floor 

It  rose  noL     Five  limes  ic-i)lumed,  as  ofl 

Vanish'd  Iho  light  from  underneath  the  moon, 

8iuce  the  deep  wuy  we  euter'd,  when  from  ^ 

Appear'd  a  mountain  dun,'  inftiest  methought 

Of  all  I  e'er  heheld.     Joy  seized  us  straight ; 

But  soon  to  mourning  changed.    From  the  Dew  land 

A  whirlwind  sprung,  and  at  her  foremost  nde 

Did  strike  the  yessel.      Thrice'  it  wfahl'd  her  raand 

Witii  all  the  waves ;  the  fourth  lime  lifted  up 

The  poop,  and  sank  the  prow  :  bo  fate  decreed  i 

And  over  ua  the  booming  billow  cloBod.'" 


1  Made  CUT  ov 

.«,vi 

BoClilBbrera,Ca 

M.  Erolehe 

dU. 

nnFTW. 
™.at,»L194. 

AndTawlWi 

•  JH(,*i«™t=*<M.l    Pen 

Vide  mai" 

^'.'Xa 

'^^''na'Ji 

r 

r...  .-thi  I 

Nor  there 
Did  over n 

(hl^behDld 

"^'mV^ 

.T" 

the  various  oplo 
did  nol  reach  If 

m.]    The  mounlaiD  of  PuRBIory. — Amona 

paradise.  Flslro  LomliardD  rslalea,  Ihu  ■  It 
a  lon«  >|iace,  dlher  of  Ha  or  land,  I^ODi  IM 
by  men.  and  placed  In  the  ocau..  reaeMi« 
oac  circle.  » that  Ibe  waun  of  ibe  del^ 
Sml.,Ub.lLdl.I.  17.    ThmLonbanU.^ 

ToiqnBi  agen. 

dream,  el 

nirtilu.  VI 

deni 

^<i^  Ulh  L  US. 

opinion  thai  tJly 

nOirl  refen 

fonnder 

and  Solinon  (br  Ika 
lUiUm,  troBt  n-haima 

HELL,  Canto  SXVTT. 
CANTO   XSVII. 


Now  upwnnj  rose  the  flame,  and  stIII'd  its  light 
To  epeak  DO  mnre,  and  now  pnss'd  nn  tritb  leave 
Fram  the  mild  poet  gain'd  ;  nhe-n  following  come 
Anollier,  from  whose  lop  a  soiind  eoafuKd. 
Forlli  inaiiig,  drew  our  eyes  that  way  to  look. 

As  Lhe  Sicilinn  bull,'  that  rightfully 
His  cries  But  echoed  who  bod  shaped  its  mould. 
Did  BO  rebellow,  with  the  voice  of  him 


oagh  the  flame, 
Into  'Oa  lan^B^e  turn'd  the  disnial  wOJlfs  : 
Bat  eooD  as  they  had  wau  IheLr  psHuge  forth. 
Up  from  the  point,  wliich  vibrating  obey'ii 
Their  motion  at  the  tongue,  these  aounds  were  heard ! 
"  O  thou  :  to  whom  I  uuw  direct  my  voice, 
That  lately  didet  exclaim  iu  Lombard  phrase. 
'  Depart  thou  ;  I  solicit  thee  uo  more  ;' 
Though  somewhat  tardy  I  perchonce  arrive. 
Let  it  not  irk  thee  here  to  pauHe  awhile. 
And  with  me  pariey :  lo !  it  Irks  not  me, 
And  yet  I  bum.     If  but  e'en  now  tliou  fall 
Into  this  blind  world,  from  that  pleasant  land 
Of  Lalium,  whenco  I  draw  my  sum  of  guilt. 
Tell  me  if  those  who  in  Romagna  dwell 
Have  peace  or  war.     For  of  the  mountainB  there* 
Vftta  I,  betwixt  Urbino  and  the  height 
Whence  Tiber  first  unlochs  hie  mighty  flood." 

Leaning  I  lieten'd,  yet  with  heedful  ear, 
When,  as  he  louch'd  my  side,  the  leader  Uius : 
"  Speak  thou ;  he  is  a  Latian."     My  reply 


TfiBriu  lo  ULjMHs,  (see  lhe  olevonlh 
■nd  inrtly  fram  the  &Le  which  there 

1  ne  SidHtn  ML]    The  Boglne  i 


lea  by 


■^w 


1  THE  VISION. 

ifl  ready,  and  1  spiike  without  delay  - 
'  spirit '.  who  Bit  hidden  hero  belon. 
(or  woB  thy  Romagna  without  war 
her  proud  tyrants^  boaoonB,  nor  \s  now ; 
,  open  war  there  left  I  none.     The  stale, 
(enna  hath  muintain'd  thia  many  a  year, 
itendfasL     There  Polenta's  eagle'  broods  ; 
"  'ofplumo 


1 


K  rnalle  eo  called,  in  Uis  neighborhood  ol 


nienlure,  Bmong  Ihn  piieu  af  hli  Umn.    Tiraboich; 

della  LhIL  lui,  lom.  v.  lih.  iii.,  c.  iL  secL  11    The  pun«e  ia 

the  (Oil  inlghl  have  removed  Ihe  nncarlaliily  which  llra- 

iheBmu  nfrielro,  ucbUihopoTMunieale.  llniiulevldBnUy 
have  Iwen  very  slinn,  iloce  bis  jiivernnienl  1>  hero  repm- 
HDUd  (In  13ni)  u  nol  having  laflenid  sny  material  diUiub- 

In  [ho  PrD&mlam  u  the  Annnlallenfl  gn  the  DecamHin  of 
Boccafcio,  written  by  these  who  wem  depqied  lo  thai  wtHj^. 
Hax.  GlnnD,  1973, 11  li  Hid  of  Cnldo  Novello,  "del  qnile  d 
J^Eoao  luicon  alciuie  corapoaliloD],  per  pocbe  che  oUe  aieM^'^ 
■econdo  quella  eli,  belle  e  leuladre  i-  and  In  the  nollscOiM'J 
ediied  by  Allacu  al  Naplm.Twi.  p.  3ffi,  i>  a  nmHl  of  Ul,  l 
which  breslbes  a  hlgb  and  pure  >ii!rll  of  PlaloBtna.  . 

Among  Ihe  HSS.  of  Ilu  Ilbid  In  the  Ambndin  libiaiy  ••' 
Milan,  dBscrlbBd  by  Mai.  [here  ia  one  Ibal  wo  In  Ihe  pones- 
BJan  of  Gnldo.    liisilii   lyifminU,  ^i^  HA.  JftdiaJ..  181B. 

Tu  Ihii  aeconnl  1  mntl  now  lubjola  Uuu  which  ha>  xlnos 
been  given,  hul  wllhonl  any  tefBronco  to  auihoriaoa.  br 
Traya:  "Id  the  couree  of  eight  jmn,  from  1310  to  1318, 
tiuldo  ItL  of  Poleala,  father  of  Ftanceua.  logolber  with  his 

Baonian.  wBj  father  of  Guide  IV.  Of  Uwh  two  il  i<  not 
knewB  whether  Ibey  held  Ihe  lordship  of  Ravenna.  Bat  II 
eame  10  Ihe  >oni  of  Ostaslo.  (iuldo  V..  called  Nuvello.  and 
Rlnsldo.  Ilie  aichblshop :  oa  the  eodb  of  Benuudino  devolved 
Ihe  Kiverelgnly  of  the  neighboring  city  of  Cervta." 

Frilro  JVIrgtrica  di  Dante,  td.  IfSO,  p.  176. 

which.  In  11^  were  onablnl.  by  (he  aDstagem  of  Ooldo  da 

ilnnghtor  the  French  anny  by  which  11  bad  beoi 


Bnldn.1tB'   ^M 
Slnthiu^l^H 


44-68.  HELL,  C*Nro  XXVII.  jg 

And  piled  in  bloody  heap  the  host  of  Ftance. 

"  The  old  mastiS'ar  Vemichia  and  ths  ymiag,' 
That  torn  Moatagna*  in  theii  «TBth,  itill  make. 
Where  they  are  wont,  an  nugre  of  their  TangB. 


id  Santei 


Under  the  lion  of  the  mowy  laii,* 

Inconstant  partiean.  that  cban^th  sideg, 

Ot  eret  summer  yields  lo  winter's  frost. 

And  she,  wboae  flank  is  wash'd  of  Savio'a  wave,' 

As  'twixt  the  level  and  tlie  steep  she  lies, 

Lives  «<l  "I wilt  tyrant  power  and  liberty. 

"  Now  tell  us,  I  entreat  thee,  who  art  thou ; 
Be  not  more  hard  than  othera.  In  the  world, 
So  may  Ihy  name  still  rear  its  forehead  higti." 

Then  roar'd  awhile  the  fire,  its  aharppu'd  point 
Ou  either  side  waved,  and  thus  breathed  at  Isal : 
"  If  I  did  Iliinlt  my  answer  were  to  one 
Who  ever  could  return  unto  tho  world, 
This  flame  should  rest  unahoJcen.     But  smoe  no'er, 
If  true  be  told  me,  any  from  this  depth 
Has  found  bis  upward  wny,  I  answer  thee, 
Nor  fear  lest  infamy  recotd  the  words. 

"  A  man  of  anns°  at  fiiat,  I  clothed  me  then 
In  good  Saint  Francis'  gudlo,  hopng  so 
To  have  made  amends.     And  certainly  my  hope 
Had  fail'd  not.  but  that  he,  whom  cunes  light  on. 
The  high  priest,'  again  seduced  me  into  «n. 

Oid<rt»ffl.  or  Anltlaffl,  whnm  lie  dejigmles  liy  iUi  co«l  of 


iMonU^^] 


the  pDIgHIOiy.  Canio  iLv.  132. 

he  1>  called  Hacblnarda  in  Sai 

'  mMtJtmk  11  »ut'«  cf  S 

atlheroDlorsmoanlRlD,  nn 

^T<m  ef  armi.i    GaldDd 
'TkiiighfHut.]     Bonlfet 

188  TnE  VISION.  « 

And  bow,  and  wherefniv,  liHtPii  while  I  tell, 
Idug  UB  LhiB  ^irit  moved  the  bonn  and  pulp 
My  niather  gave  me,  lean  my  deeits  benpake 
Tha  nature  of  the  hon  thnn  the  fox.' 
All  traya  of  wmding  subllely  1  knew, 
Aud  with  Buch  art  caudacled,  that  the  eound 
Keach'd  the  world's  limit.     Soea  b£  to  that  part 
or  life  1  found  me  come,  wheu  each  behDoveB 
To  lower  hsIIb'  and  gather  in  the  Unea ; 
That,  which  before  bad  pleased  me,  then  I  nwd, 
A  nd  to  repenlsnce  and  confeuion  tum'd, 
Wretch  that  I  woa ;  and  wel)  it  had  beolead  mo. 
The  chief  of  ihe  new  PliariBees'  meantime, 


xailt-']    Oar  ?nel  lind  (bo  aanie  (mtri  of  tluni^t 

lellale.  Lb  HMunle  BiorlB,"  fcc,  p.  9M.  "  A»  11 
id  by  CLisFo.  in  bis  treatire  oa  old  ii(e.  miiml 
B  port  and  tiBTBD  to  ut  after  a  lone  ynyasa ;  and 
Kflod  mariner,  when  be  dmwi  neBr  uia  port. 


1 


'  nDdcntandlu 
t,  to  Iho  enil  Ihet  we  msv  reacb  Ihli  bareu  with  ^ 
I  Bnd  with  Bkl  peace.    And  beicln  we  txv  mlgbtllj 

ie  bod j  In  wUdlJ 


SomByatlhou  Uve,  till  bhe  ripe  Ihill  thou  drop  ^^^H 

Into  tby  melbcr^B  lap,  or  be  with  eue  ^^^| 

Gslhet'd.  not  tianhly  pluck'd,  Ibr  dcHlh  nutore.  ^H 

JWiVl.a.  P.  Z,„  b.  ri.  S3T.      ^^ 

■  Tin  Md-of  Ik,  UB  Platitia.-]    BPBlfeceVni..who« 

Ibelc  ^atei  nenr  Ibe  Idlena,    Wlifaliig  to  obtain  pnuaulin 

MoncerBltro  how  he  mlffhl  ac«HU|ril«h  tail  pnrpnBe.  offisrlnj^^^ 

as  for  thBt  which  be  -wu  tben  lempHne  talm  to  comoil*^,^^ 
Galdii'a  BdvLco  waA,  Ibat  kind  woriU  und  Jlur  promlftos  woo^^  -^ 
— -  *-' [n[j,  hta  powei;  and  Ihey  accordiDBlr ^^^ 


t 


:l  bad  juitly  condeamei  Q 


I 


fltHie.  HELL,  Canto  XXVIL  187 

Wa^ng  his  warfare  near  the  Lutcraii, 

Not  with  the  Saracens  or  Jews,  (his  foes 

All  Christians  were,  nor  against  Acre  one 

Had  fought,^  nor  traffick*d  in  the  Soldan's  land) 

He,  his  great  charge  nor  sacred  ministry, 

In  himself  reverenced,  nor  in  me  that  cord 

Which  used  to  mark  with  leanness  whom  it  girded. 

As  in  Soracte,  Constantine  besought,' 

To  cure  his  leprosy,  Sylvester's  aid ; 

So  me,  to  cure  the  fever  of  his  pride, 

This  man  besought :  my  counsel  to  that  end 

He  ask'd ;  and  1  was  silent ;  for  his  words 

Seem'd  drunken :  but  forthwith  he  thus  resumed : 

*  From  thy  heart  banish  fear :  of  all  offence 

*  I  hitherto  absolve  thee.     In  return, 

*  Teach  me  my  purpose  so  to  execute, 

*  That  Penestrino  cumber  earth  no  more. 


allotted  him.  See  Muratori,  Script.  Itiil.,  torn.  Ix.  p.  070, 
where  the  editor  observes:  ''Probosi  hujiis  facinoris  narra- 
tionifidem  adjungere  nemo  probus  velit,  quod  facile  confinzer- 
int  Bonifacii  lemuli,"  itc.  And  indeed  it  would  seem  as  if 
I>ginte  himself  had  either  not  heard,  or  had  not  believed,  the 
report  of  Guido*8  having  sold  himself  thus  foolishly  to  the 
Pope,  when  he  wrote  the  passage  in  the  Convito  cited  in  the 
note  to  v.  76 ;  for  he  soon  after  speaks  of  him  as  one  of  those 
noble  spirits  *'  who,  when  they  approached  the  last  haven, 
lowered  the  sails  of  their  worldly  operations,  and  gave  them- 
selves up  to  religion  in  their  old  age,  laying  aside  every  world- 
ly delight  and  wish." 

1 JVor  against  Acre  one 

Had  fought.]  He  alludes  to  the  renegade  Christians,  by 
whom  the  Saracens,  in  April,  1291,  were  assisted  to  recover 
St.  John  d'Acre,  the  last  possession  of  the  Christians  in  the 
Holy  Land.  The  regret  expressed  by  the  Florentine  annalist, 
G.  Villani,  for  the  loss  of  this  valuable  fortress,  is  well  worthy 
of  observation,  lib.  vii.  c.  144.  "  From  this  event  Christendom 
suffered  the  greatest  detriment :  for  by  the  loss  of  Acre  there 
no  longer  remained  in  the  Holy  Land  any  footing  for  the 
Christians ;  and  all  our  good  maritime  places  of  trade  never 
afterwards  derived  half  the  advantage  from  their  merchan- 
dise and  manufactures ;  so  favorable  was  the  situation  of  the 
city  of  Acre,  in  the  very  front  of  our  sea,  in  the  middle  of 
Syria,  and  as  it  were  in  the  middle  of  the  inhabited  world, 
seventy  miles  from  Jerusalem,  both  source  and  receptacle  of 
every  kind  of  merchandise,  as  well  from  the  east  as  from  the 
west ;  the  resort  of  all  people  from  all  countries,  and  of  the 
eastern  nations  of  every  different  tongue ;  so  that  it  might  be 
considered  as  the  aliment  of  the  world." 

a  As  in  Soracte,  Constantine  besought.]  So  in  Dante's  trea- 
tise De  Monarchic :  "  Dicunt  quidam  adhuc,  quod  Constan- 
tinus  Imperator,  mundatus  a  lepr&  intercessione  Sylvcstri, 
tunc  summi  pontificis,  imperii  sedem,  scilicet  Romam,  donavit 
ecclesie,  cum  multis  aliis  imperii  dignitatibus."  Lib.  iU.  Com 
pare  Fhzi^  d^ii  CTberti,  ZfiUamando,  Ub.  il.  cap.  xii. 


1 

1                IBS                        THE  VISION.                     SMSt^H 

'  HflBVBii,  08  tliou  know«t,  I  have  no  powra  ts  >>llrfi^^| 

'  ThB  wticli  my  piedeceBBor"  mennly  priied."                 ^M 

"  Then,  yielding  to  the  fgrceful  argiunonW,                 ^ 

Of  ailenCB  as  mora  perilouB  I  deem'd, 

And  answer'd  ;  •  Father !  Mnce  thou  washeat  me 

•  Clear  of  thai  guilt  wherein  I  now  murt  fall, 

'  Shall  make  thee  triumph  in  thy  lofty  Beat.' 

•■  When  I WBB  number'd  with  the  dead,  then  eaniB 

Saint  Francis  for  niB  ;  but  a  cherub  dark 

He  met,  who  cried :  '  Wrong  me  not ;  be  is  mine, 

'  And  muBt  below  to  join  the  wretched  crew. 

'  For  the  deceitful  counBel  which  ho  gave. 

'  E'er  ebce  I  watch'd  him,  hovering  at  Ids  hsii. 

'  Nor  to  repeut,  aud  wUI,  at  dqcs  cattsiiit, 

'  By  contradictluu  absolute  forbid.'                                   ^ 

Oh  miaeryl  how  I  sliook  myiielf,  when  be                       ^1 

Seized  me,  and  cried,  '  Thou  haply  Ibought'st  m«  not  ^H 

'  A  disputant  in  logic  so  exact  1'                                          ^H 

To  Minos  down  he  bore  me ;  and  the  judge                    ^1 

Twined  eight  limes  round  his  callous  back  the  tail. 

Which  biting  with  eicew  of  rage,  ho  spake ; 

'  This  is  a  guilty  sold,  that  in  the  firo 

A  prey  to  raukhng  sorrow,  hi  this  garb." 

When  he  had  thus  fulfiU'd  his  words,  the  flame 

In  dolor  parted,  beatijig  to  and  fro, 

And  writhing  its  sharp  hom.     We  onward  went, 

I  anJ  my  leader,  up  along  the  rock, 

Far  as  another  arch,  that  overhangs 

Tlie  foss,  wherein  the  penalty  ia  paid 

CANTO    XXVIII.                           H 

argTI^nt.                            ■ 

Thi^y  arrive  in  Ifae  oinlh  golf,  where  Ilio  «awen  of  KaaAL.  ^M 
».(,U^H.ic>,  aod  hereuJ.  ar..  =een  wi.h  their  UmtalStoS.  ■ 

Poel  nnil4  Mi.hoine(,  f>erg  da  MedkiDl,  Carto,  »««.  a<I  H 

Who,  e'en  in  words  unfetter'd,  might  at  full               H 

Tell  of  the  wounds  and  blood  that  uow  I  saw,            ^M 

/ 

Though  he  repeated  oft  the  tale  ?     No  ton^ie            .^H 

•Mi/pT-iil^t^^oT.)    CalesHtiE-V.   Sec  Nate,  lo  Canto  111.-^^1 

_^3^^l 

4-17.  HELL,  Canto  XXYIU.  180 

So  Tast  a  theme  could  equal,  speech  and  thought 
Both  hnpotent  alike.     If  in  one  band 
Collected,  stood  the  people  all,  who  e'er 
Pour'd  on  Apulia's  happy  soil*  their  blood, 
Slain  by  the  Trojans,'  and  in  that  long  war," 
When  of  the  rings*  the  measured  booty  made 
A  pile  80  high,  as  Rome's  historian  writes 
Who  errs  not ;  with  the  multitude,  that  felt 
The  griding  force  of  Guiscard's  Norman  steel,* 
And  those  the  rest,"  whose  bones  are  gather'd  yet 
At  Ceperano,  there  where  treachery 
Branded  the  Apuliaii  name,  or  where  beyond 
Thy  walls,  O  Tagliacozzo,^  without  arms 
The  old  Alardo  conquer'd ;  and  his  limbs 


1  Happy  soil.']  There  is  a  strange  discordance  here  among 
the  expounders.  "  Fortunata  terra.**  Because  of  the  vicis- 
situdes of  fortune  which  it  experienced :  Landino.  Forta- 
nate,  with  respect  to  those  who  conquered  in  it :  Vellutcllo. 
Or  on  account  of  its  natural  fertility :  Venturi.  The  context 
requires  that  we  should  understand,  by  "  fortunata."  "  ca- 
lamitous,** **  disgrazinta,*'  to  which  sense  the  word  is  extended 
in  the  Vocabulary  of  La  Crusca :  Lombardl.    Vol  pi  is  silenL 

On  this  note  the  late  Archdeacon  Fisher  favored  nw.  with 
the  following  remark :  "  Volpi  is,  indeed,  silent  at  the  pas- 
sage ;  but  in  the  article  '  Puglia,*  in  his  second  Index,  ho 
writes,  Dante  la  chiama  fortunata,  cioe  pinguo  e  feconda. 
This  is  your  own  translation  ;  and  is  the  same  word  in  mean- 
ing with  thhalntav  and  felix,  in  Xenophon's  Anabasis  and 
Horace  passim." 

a  The  Trcjana.]  Some  MSB.  have  "  Romani  :*'  and  Iiom- 
liardi  has  admitted  it  into  the  text.  Venturi  had,  indeed,  be- 
fore met  with  the  same  reading  in  some  edition,  but  he  has 
not  told  us  in  which. 

3  In  that  long  war.]  The  war  of  Hannibal  in  Italy.  **  When 
Mago  brought  news  of  his  victories  to  Carthage,  in  order  to 
make  his  successes  more  easily  credited,  he  commanded  the 
golden  rings  to  be  poured  out  in  the  senate-house,  which 
made  so  largo  a  heap,  that,  as  some  relate,  they  tilled  three 
viodii  and  a  half.  A  more  probable  account  represents  them 
not  to  have  exceeded  one  modius.^^  JLivy,  Hist.,  lib.  xxiii.  12. 

*  The  rings.]    So  Frezzi : 

Non  queila,  che  riempi^  i  moggi  d'anella. 

//  Q^uadrir.,  lib.  ii.  cap.  9. 

»  Guiscard's  J^orman  steel.]  Robert  Gulscard,  who  con- 
quered tlie  kingdom  of  Naples,  and  died  in  1110.  (i.  Villani, 
lib.  iv.  cap.  18.     He  is  introduced  in  the  Paradise,  Canto  xviii. 

•  .And  those  the  rest.]  The  army  of  Manfredi,  which,  through 
the  treachery  of  the  Apulian  troops,  was  overcome  by  Charles 
of  Anjou  in  I'JG.'i,  and  fell  in  such  numbers,  that  tho  Imnes  of 
the  slain  were  still  gathered  near  Ceperano.  G.  Villani,  lib. 
vii.  cap.  9.    fctee  tho  Purgatory,  Canto  iii. 

7  O  Tfigliacozzo.]  He  alludes  to  the  \nctory  which  Charles 
gained  over  Conradino,  by  the  sage  advice  of  the  Pieur  de 
Valeri,  in  1SJ68.    (5.  Villani,  lib.  vii.  c.  27. 


ISO 


THE  VISION. 


la-^ 


One  were  to  ahon  traDSjMeTGftd,  unothei  hia 
Clean  lopp'd  away ;  a  spectacle  like  tbia 
Were  but  a  thing  of  naught,  to  the  hideouB 
Of  the  ninth  chasm,      A  rundlel,  Ihat  hath  1^ 
Its  middle  or  side  staive,  gap«  di 
Ah  ona  1  mark'd.  torn  from  the  chin  thranghont 
Down  to  the  hinder  -passage  t  ^Iwiit  the  lega 
Dangling  his  enlrailB  hung,  the  midriff  lay 

That  turns  the  englutled  aliment  to  drosa. 

While  eagerly  I  fii  on  him  my  gaze, 
He  eyed  me,  with  his  hand*  laid  hia  breaal  bore,     . 
And  cried,  "Now  mark  how  I  da  rip  me:  tol 
How  ia  Mahomet  mangled:  hefore  me 
Walks  Ali'  weeping,  from  the  ehin  his  face 
Cleft  to  the  forelock  ;  and  the  othera 


When 


t,  while 


schism,  and  therefore 
A  Hend  is  here  behind,  who  with  hta  aword 
Hacks  us  thus  cruelly,  silvering  again 
Each  of  this  ream,  when  we  have  compass'd  rt 
The  dismal  way ;  for  first  our  gafihes  close 
Ere  we  repass  before  him.     But,  say  who 
Art  thoH,  that  standeat  mining  on  the  rook. 
Haply  BO  lingering  to  delay  the  pain 
Sentenced  upon  thy  crimes." — "  Him  death  no 
My  guide  rejoin'd,  "  hath  orerta'on,  nor  sm 
ConductB  to  lormenl ;  but,  that  he  may  make 
Full  trial  of  your  stale,  I  who  am  dead 
Must  through  the  depths  of  hell,  from  orb  to  i 
Conduct  him.     Trust  my  wards  ;  for  Ibey  are 

More  than  a  hundred  spirits,  when  that  they  hi 
Stood  in  the  fosa  to  mark  me,  through  BOioze 
Forgetful  of  their  pangs.     "  Thou,  who  perel 
Shalt  shortly  view  tbe  sun,  this  warning  thoa 


0  Dolcii 


^  bid  hi 


ihuoC 


'  ^!i.]    The  dlacliile  of  Hthaiael. 

to  no  regutar  onkr,  contrived  to  ralw  In  PJovara,  in  Lon- 
bardy,  ■.  luce  costpAny  of  the  nieuier  »rt  of  people.  decU' 
ring  hlfnaelf  lo  be  a  mie  epnoUo  of  Cbii4I,  ahd  promtilgatliii 
a  DQpimnslLy  ofpitipeiny  and  or  wWes,  with  taajiy  other 
inch  lierelical  docnin™.  He  bluniBd  llie  pope,  cnrdlmls, 
and  atberpnlales  of  the  half  cbnrrli,  Ibt  not  Qinsrving  their 
dnIT,  nor  Issdlni  ihe  aiiBellc  liAi,  and  affiniMd  Ibal  he  nuglH 


Sf-75.  HELL,  Canto  XXYIII.  191 

Here  soon  to  follow  me,  that  with  good  itore 

Of  food  he  arm  him,  lest  imprisoning  snows 

Yield  him  a  victim  to  Novara*s  power ; 

No  easy  conquest  else :"  with  foot  upraised 

For  stepping,  spake  Mahomet,  on  the  ground 

Then  fix*d  it  to  depart.    Another  shade, 

Pierced  in  the  throat,  his  nostrils  mutilate 

E'en  from  beneath  the  eyebrows,  and  one  ear 

Lopp'd  off,  who,  with  the  rest,  through  wonder  stood 

Gazing,  before  the  rest  advanced,  and  bared 

His  wind-pipe,  that  without  was  all  o*erBmear*d 

With  crimson  stain.  "  O  thou !"  said  he,  "  whom  sin 

Condemns  not,  and  whom  erst  (unless  too  near 

Resemblance  do  deceive  me)  I  aloft 

Have  seen  on  Latian  ground,  call  thou  to  mind 

Piero  of  Medlcina,*  if  again 

Returning,  thou  behold'st  the  pleasant  land^ 

That  from  Vercelli  slopes  to  Mcrcab6 ; 

And  there  instruct  the  twain,'  whom  Fano  boasts 

Her  worthiest  sons,  Guide  and  Angelo, 

That  if  'tis  given  us  here  to  scan  aright 

The  future,  they  out  of  life's  tenement* 

for  two  years,  till  many  being  struck  with  compunction  at 
the  dissolute  life  they  led,  his  sect  was  much  diminished; 
and,  through  failure  of  food  and  the  severity  of  the  snows, 
he  was  talcen  by  the  people  of  Novara,  and  burnt,  with  Mar- 
garita, his  companion,  and  many  other  men  and  women 
whom  his  errors  had  seduced."     G.  VUlani,  lib.  viii.  c.  84. 

Landino  observes,  that  he  was  possessed  of  singular  elo- 
quence, and  that  both  he  and  Margarita  endured  their  fate 
with  a  firmness  worthy  of  a  better  cause.  For  a  further  ac- 
count of  him,  see  Muratori,  Rer.  Ital.  Script.,  tom.  ix.  p.  427. 

Fazio  dcgli  Uberti,  speaking  of  the  polygamy  allowed  by 
Mahomet,  adds : 

£  qui  con  fra  Dolcin  par  che  s'intcnda. 

Dittamondo,  lib.  v.  cap.  xii. 

1  Medieina.']  A  place  in  the  territory  of  Bologna.  Piero 
fomented  dissensions  among  the  inhabitants  of  that  city,  and 
among  the  leaders  of  the  neighboring  states. 

3  TAe  pleasant  land.]    Lombardy. 

*  The  twain.]  Guide  del  Cassero  and  Angiolello  da  Ca- 
gnano,  two  of  the  worthiest  and  most  distinguished  citizens 
of  Fano,  were  invited  by  Malatestino  da  Rimini  to  nn  enter- 
tainment, on  pretence  that  he  had  some  important  business 
to  transact  with  them ;  and,  according  to  instructions  given 
by  him,  they  were  drowned  in  their  passage  near  Cattolica, 
between  Rimini  and  Fano. 

*  Out  of  lifers  tenement.]  "  Fnor  di  lor  vasello,"  is  con- 
strued by  the  old  Latin  annotator  on  the  Monte  Cassino  MS. 
and  by  Lombardi,  "out  of  the  ship."  Volpi  understands 
"  vasello"  to  mean  "  their  city  or  country."  Others  take  the 
wwd  in  the  sense  according  to  wUch,  though  not  without 
some  doubt,  it  is  rendered  in  tbia  traasl&Uoa. 


193  THE  VISION-  76-1(8. 

Shall  bo  cut  forth,  and  whelm'd  under  llie  waves 

Sear  to  Cattolicu,  through  p«rGdy 

Of  a  fell  tyrant.     'Twixt  the  Cyprian  kle 

And  Balcuio,  ne'er  hath  Neptune  seeu 

An  injury  so  foul,  by  pirates  done, 

Or  Argivo  crew  of  old.     That  one-eyed  trailoi 

[WhoBc  realm,  there  la  a,  spirit  here  were  fain 

Hb  eye  had  elill  lack'd  stgtit  of)  theiD  shall  bring 

To  conference  with  him,  then  an  shape  liis  eud, 

That  Ihey  BhKll  need  not  'gamat  Focara'a  wind' 

Offer  up  vnw  not  prayer."     I  answering  thus: 

"  Declare,  as  llion  dont  wish  that  I  above 

May  carry  tidings  of  thee,  who  is  he,  [brance." 

In  whom  tliat  ught  doth  wake  such  sad  remem- 

Fortiiwith  he  laid  his  hand  on  the  cheek-boue 
Of  OHO,  Ilia  fellow-spirit,  and  his  jaws 
Expanding,  cried :  "  Lo  i  this  is  ha  I  wot  of; 
He  speaks  not  far  hunself:  the  outcast  this. 
Who  overwhelrn'd  the  doubt  Ui  Cwsar's  loiiid,' 
Affirming  that  delay  to  men  prepared 
WttB  ever  hannfnl."    Oh!  how  terrified 
Methought  was  Curio,  from  whose  throat  was  cut 
The  tongue,  which  spake  tliat  hardy  word.  Then  oae, 
Matm'd  of  each  bund,  uplifted  in  the  gloom 
The  bleeding  slumps,  that  they  with  gory  spot* 
Bullied  his  fuoo,  and  cried:  "  Rpmcmbcr  thee 
OfMoaca'too;  I  who,  alas!  oiclaim'd, 


Fl^rVJ., 

LS8L 

Haste  1h 

nlhy  lowering  e 

ulHoolhelrway 

WHenfuJ 

uIdh  csIIk, 

i!»(aullodelay. 

»«» 

■  ■«««.]    D 

ond 

ImonlewM 

engifct  to  manr 

.luiyof 

the  AiQldel  bm 

ly,  b 

blBuelT 

to  one  of  (He 

Jd'ns 

Lbyih. 

lve>  and  Ibeir  kin 

hold,  ^  romdd 

beb«tn» 

elusll. 

Mmca  di«lL  Uberfl, 

or  de'  Lam 

m  tore- 

BBlton  of  B 

UmlDE  M 

lliem,  "  UiB  thl 

e  done.  Ih. 

andlueflten 

"  ThU  murder,"  say.  G.  Vili 

rap.  38,  ■■  ira. 

Ibe 

caUM  uid 

fCSi-A.'S. 

■e'eoniJt 

Gndph  End  Gh 

)pe»d|^ 

1»y    Seelhe 

IBS-ISO.  HELL,  C».NTO  XXVIIL  193 

■The  deed  dnoe  ddne,  [hore  is  an  end,'  [h&t  proved 
A  seed  of  Borrow  to  tho  Tuscan  raco." 

I  added:  "  Ay,  and  death  to  thiuo  own  tribe," 
Whence,  lleaping  wo  on  wo,  he  hurried  off. 
As  one  grief-BHine  to  madness.     Bui  !  there 
Slill  linger'd  to  behold  the  troop,  aod  saw 
Thing,  sueh  as  I  may  fear  without  more  proof 
To  tell  of.  but  tliat  conscience  mikes  me  firm, 
The  boon  companion,'  who  her  strong  breast-plate 
Buckles  on  him,  that  feels  no  guilt  within, 
And  bids  him  on  and  fear  not.     Without  douht 
I  BBW,  and  yet  it  aeems  to  pate  before  me, 
A  headless  trunk,  that  even  aa  the  rest 
Of  the  sad  Sock  paced  onward.     By  the  hair 
It  bore  the  sever'd  meinhor,  Jantern-wise 
Pendent  in  hand,  which  iDok'd  at  ub,  and  Bald, 
The  Bphil  hghted  thus  himself ; 


Aiidt> 


vthat 


DJssj 


I  there  were 


isting  the  head 


The  words,  which  thus  it  utler'd  :  "  Now  beliold 
Tills  grievous  torment,  thou,  who  breathing  go'st 
To  spy  the  doud :  bohold,  if  any  else 
Be  terrible  as  this.     And,  that  on  earth 
Thoa  mayst  boar  tidings  of  me,  know  that  I 
Am  Bertrand,'  he  of  Born,  wlio  gave  king  John 


Iklbec,  Hiiiirjr  n.  a: 


moutplate  than  a 


VDlg.  Bloq..  Ub.  U,  cap.  3,  where  il  is  uld,  "  that  lie  tntaud 
of  IMt  wWeU  no  Iiallan  pool  had  yol  donB."  "Alma  vera 
Boniuil  IbilDin  Hdhnc  poaune  Invenlo."  The  CKiiLe  dlviiLun 
of  sabJecB  fiir  poetry,  majle  In  ttdi  cliapter  of  Ihe  de  VnLg. 
Hoq.,  It  very  nnuikUile.  II  will  ho  ftiuBd  la  a  oote  00  Por- 
aurv.  Oulo  uvi.  113.  P«  itie  nuglailan  of  edoio  axineti 
aomBenrud  de  Boia'i  poenu,  ue  HiLlol.  IIIsl,  LilUrsire 


of  fioRlaihl.  n  La  IhaL  HpodH  of  cqmpDfdLlon  caLlod  Ihe  !i 
venlmiuidlilnlhoVailcsn,  a  MS.TnCod.  3304.  Boe  I 
■100.  La  OvKS  Pmreorale.  Roma,  1T34,  p.  SO.  For  ma 
IHrlkBluv  lapofltLni  bolb  Boruahda.  conanll  Raynouar 
eotiia  tet  TmobBdnnra ;  In  which  Dioeltcnl  woA.  and 
bli  Leciqoe  Runinn,  Parii,  ISX,  Hveral  nf  llieir  poopii,  in  r 
Pnrraaial  iBngaiiBe,  may  1>e  reen. 


194 


TUB  VISION. 


The  coiiiiBel  miBchievouH.     Fatber  and  son 
I  Bet  at  mutual  war.     For  Abralom 
And  David  more  did  not  Ahitophel, 
Spurring  them  on  maUciongly  to  rtrife. 
For  parting  thoee  ao  closely  knit,  mj  braui 
Parted,  al»s  !  I  cany  from  its  Boaroe, 
That  in  thin  trunk  inbabits.     Thus  the  law 
Of  retribution  fiercely  worka  in  ma." 


CANTO   XSIX. 


ot  being  ahlB  1 


AROUMENT. 
if  ViT^.  proceeds  oawan 
ith  gul  f,  from  whence  be  ' 
id  fbtgers,  who  an  (ono 

lend  ItH  rodt,  Ihalliooiii 
'   *    whkh  Iba  eighib  el 


iidic1de4 


Arej.10  aad  CapDCChlD  of  Slemu,  nxe  iDtrodDced  epeaking- 

So  were  mine  eyea  inebriate  with  the  view 
Of  the  vast  multitude,  whom  vuiaus  wounds 
Disflgured,  tliat  they  loug'd  to  Btay  and  wpep. 

But  Virgil  roused  me  :  "  What  yel  gaieat  on  t 
Wherefore  doth  fasten  yel  thy  sight  below 
Among  the  maim'd  and  miserable  shades  ? 
Tiiou  hast  not  ahonu  in  any  chasm  beside 
This  weakness.  Know,  if  thou  wonldst  number  Iliem, 
That  two  and  twenty  miles  the  valley  wmds 
■■      "       ■■         ■    Ireadyiathei 


eath  01 


andn^ 


ted  nov 


"  If  thou," 


straight  replied,  '' 


reigh'd  the 


For  which  I  look'd,  thou  hndal  perchance  eiciieed 
The  tarrying  still."     My  leader  part  pursued 
His  way,  the  while  I  follow'd.  answering  him. 
And  adding  thus  ;  "  Within  that  cava  I  deem. 
Whereon  so  fixedly  I  hcid  my  ken. 
There  is  a  spirit  dwells,  one  of  my  blood, 
Wailing  the  crime  that  coats  him  now  so  dear." 

Then  spaka  my  master ;  "  Let  Ihy  sool  nn  ninm 
Affliol  iteeif  for  lum.    Direct  elsewhere 
Its  liiought,  and  leave  Um.    M  ttie  bnd^'i 


U-4S.  HELL,  Canto  XXTX.  106 

I  ma^'d  how  he  did  point  with  menaciii|r  look 
At  thee,  and  heard  hmi  by  the  othen  named 
Geri  of  Beilo.^    Thou  00  wholly  then 
Wert  burned  with  his  spirit,  who  once  ruled 
The  towers  of  Hautefort,  that  thou  lookedst  not 
That  way,  ere  he  was  gone." — ^*  O  guide  beloved ! 
His  violent  death  yet  unavenged,"  said  I, 
"  By  any,  who  are  partners  in  his  shame, 
Made  him  contemptuous ;  therefore,  as  I  think, 
He  pass*d  me  speechless  by ;  and,  doing  so. 
Hath  made  me  more  compassionate  his  fate." 

So  we  discoursed  to  where  the  rock  first  showed 
The  other  valley,  had  more  light  been  there. 
E'en  to  the  lowest  depth.     Soon  as  we  came 
0*er  the  last  cloister  in  the  dismal  rounds 
Of  Malebolge,  and  the  brotherhood 
Were  to  our  view  exposed,  then  many  a  dart 
Of  sore  lament  assail'd  me,  headed  all 
With  points  of  thrilling  pity,  that  I  closed 
Both  ears  against  the  volley  with  mine  hands. 

As  were  the  torment,*  if  each  lazar-house 
Of  Valdichiana,'  in  the  sultry  time 

1  Oeriof  Bdlo.]  A  kinsman  of  the  Poet's,  who  was  mor- 
(lered  by  one  of  the  Sacchetti  fhniily.  His  l>eing  placed  here, 
may  be  considered  as  a  proof  that  Dante  was  more  Impartial 
in  the  allotment  of  his  punishments  than  has  gpnerally  been 
supposed.  He  was  the  son  of  Bello,  who  was  brotlier  to  Bel- 
lincione,  our  Poet's  grandfather.  Pelll,  Mem.  per  la  Vita  di 
Dante.    Opcre  di  Dante.    Zatta  ediz.,  tom.  iv.  part  ii.  p.  23. 

3  As  were  the  torment.']  It  is  very  probable  that  these  lines 
gave  Milton  the  idea  of  his  celebrated  description : 

Immediately  a  place 
Before  their  eyes  appeared,  sad,  noisome,  dark 
A  lazarhouse  it  seciu'd,  wherein  were  laid 
Numl)er8  of  all  diseased,  all  maladies,  &r. 

P.  7^.,  b.  xi.  477. 

Yet  the  enumeration  of  diseases,  which  fi>llow8,  appears  to 
have  been  taken  by  Miiton  from  the  duadriregio: 

duivi  cran  zoppi,  monchi,  sordi,  e  orbi, 
duivi  era  il  nial  podagrico  e  di  fianco, 
duivi  la  frenesia  cogli  occhi  torbi. 

Qnivi  il  dolor  gridante,  e  non  mai  stanco, 
duivi  il  catarro  con  la  gran  cianfarda, 
L'asma,  la  polmonia  quivi  eran*  anco. 

LMdropisia  quivi  era  grave  c  tarda, 
Di  tuttc  fcbbri  quel  piano  era  pieno, 
duivi  quel  mal,  cho  par  che  la  carna  arda. 

Lib.  ii.  cap.  8. 

»  Of  Valdiehiana.]  The  valley  through  which  passes  the 
river  Chiana,  bounded  by  Arcz7^,  Cortona,  Montcpulciano, 
and  Chiusi.  In  the  heat  of  autumn  it  was  formerly  Tendered 
tmwholesoDie  by  the  stagaation  of  the  water,  but  has  ft\nce 


i98  THE  VISION. 

'Twirf  July  tud  September,  wilh  tlie  ude 

Sardinia  and  Mareiuina'9  peBlilent  fen,' 

Had  heap'd  thsii  tnitl&dies  oil  in  one  fora 

Togelher  j  ancli  wii»  here  Ibe  tonoent :  din 

The  (tench,  as  isBULOg  streajiw  bota  feater'd  tiinba.  I 

We  on  Ibe  utmoK  Bhaie  of  (lie  leug  rock 
DctBcended  Hill  to  leSwanl.    Then  my  eight 
WoA  liTolii^r  to  oipLore  the  depth,  wherein 
The  mininor  of  tho  most  miglity  Lurd, 
All-aoorching  Jostice,  dooms  to  puniBliment 
The  foTgera  noted  on.  hor  dread  lecoriL 

Mere  rueful  wba  it  not  methlakfi  to  000 
The  nation  in  ^gina'  droop,  what  time 
Each  living  thing,  e'en  to  Iho  little  wonii. 
All  fell,  HI  full  of  malice  was  the  wr, 
(And  aflerwnrd,  ae  barfa  of  yore  have  told. 
The  ancient  people  wen)  resliwed  uoew 
From  seed  of  emmeta)  than  wsa  here  to  see 
The  apiiita,  that  langiiieh'd  thioufrli  the  murky  n 
Up-piled  on  many  a  stack.    Confused  they  Ifiy, 
One  o'er  the  belly,  o'er  the  ehouldsia  one 
Roll'd  of  another ;  ddeliiig  crawl'd  a  third 
Along  the  diamal  pathway.     Step  by  step 
We  joumey'd  on,  in  silence  looking  round. 
And  tietening  those  diaeaBed,  who  strove  in.  vain 
To  lift  their  forms.     Then  two  I  mark'd,  tliat  sat 
Fropp'd  'gainst  eueh  other,  as  two  brazen  pans 
>Stit  to  retain  the  heat.     From  head  to  foot, 
A  tetter  bark'd  them,  round.     Nor  saw  1  e'er 
Groom  currying  ao  fust,  for  whom  his  lord 
Impatient  waited,  or  himself  perchanca 
Tired  with  long  wattdiing,  as  of  these  each  one 
Plied  quickly  lita  keen  no.il»i  through  furiousnesB 
Of  ne'er  abated  prariency.     The  crnst 
Came  drawn  from  uodemealli  in  Bakea,  like  scales 
Scraped  from  tlie  brenin,  or  Mi  of  broader  nMil. 

"  O  thou  I  nhn  with  thy  tingeia  rendest  off 
Thy  cont  of  pmof,"  thus  spake  my  guide  to  one, 
"  And  eomi!luneB  makeM  teorhig  {dncen  of  them. 
Tell  me  if  any  bom  nf  Latian  land 
Be  among  these  within :  so  may  thy  noils 


ro  Nyimldoas.    Otriii.  JUit,,  UV 


L 


t^^-^^y 


■    ^ 


\ 


/■--  -: 


*  •  — 


I: 

I  ■ 
i 


r 

I 

■  I 

I' 

h 
.1 

I 


(f 


87-131  HELL,  Canto  XXIX.  197 

Serve  thee  for  everlasting  to  this  toil." 

"  Both  are  of  Latium,"  weeping  ho  replied, 
"  Whom  tortured  thus  thou  seest :  but  who  art  thou 
That  hast  inquired  of  us?"     To  whom  my  jruide : 
**  One  that  descend  with  this  man,  who  yet  lives, 
From  rock  to  rock,  and  show  him  helKs  abvRs." 

.  Then  started  they  asunder,  and  eacli  turn'd 
Trembling  toward  us,  with  the  rest,  whose  ear 
Those  words  redounding  struck.  To  me  my  liege 
Addressed  him  .  "  Speak  to  them  whatever  thou  list. 

And  I  therewith  began  :  "  So  may  no  time 
Filch  your  remembrance  from  the  thoughts  of  men 
In  the  upper  world,  but  after  many  suns 
Survive  it,  as  ye  tell  me,  who  ye  are. 
And  of  what  race  ye  come.     Your  punishment, 
Unseemly  and  disgustful  in  its  kind, 
Deter  you  not  from  opening  thus  much  to  me." 
"  Arezzo  was  my  dwelling,"*  answered  one, 
"  And  me  Albero  of  Sienna  brought 
To  die  by  fire :  but  that,  for  which  I  died. 
Leads  me  not  here.     True  is,  in  sport  I  told  him. 
That  I  had  leam'd  to  wing  my  flight  in  air ; 
And  he,  admiring  much,  as  he  was  void 
Of  wisdom,  will'd  me  to  declare  to  him 
The  secret  of  mine  art :  and  only  hence. 
Because  I  made  him  not  a  Deedalus, 
Prevail'd  on  one  supposed  his  sire  to  bum  me. 
1 1  But  Minos  to  this  chasm,  last  of  the  ten. 

For  that  I  practised  alchemy  on  earth. 
Has  doom'd  me.     Him  no  subterfuge  eludes." 
Then  to  the  bard  I  spake :  "  Was  ever  race 
Light  as  Sienna's?'     Sure  not  France  herself 
i'  Can  show  a  tribe  so  frivolous  and  vain." 

|.  The  other  leprous  spirit  heard  my  words, 

!  And  thus  retum'd :  "  Be  Stricca*  from  this  charge 


■  j  1  Jirezzo  teas  my  dwelling.]  Grifollno  of  Arezzo,  who  {ironi- 

,  iscd  Albero,  son  of  the  Bishop  of  Sienna,  that  ho  would  teach 

"  hiui  the  art  of  flying ;  and,  because  he  did  not  keep  his  prom- 

ise, Albero  prevailed  on  his  father  to  have  him  burnt  for  a 
I  necromancer. 

^  Was  ever  race 

Light  as  Sienna^s  7]    The  same  imputation  is  af^in  cast 
on  the  Sienncse,  Purg.,  Canto  xiii.  141. 

3  Stricca.\  This  is  said  ironically.  Stricca,  Nlccolo  Salim- 
lieni,  Caccia  of  Asclano,  and  Abbagliato,  or  Meo  do'  Folcac- 
chieri,  belonged  to  a  company  of  prmligal  and  luxurious 
young  men  in  Sienna,  called  the  "  brigata  foderecciay  Nlc- 
colo was  fbe  inventor  of  a  new  manner  of  using  c\oveft  \u 


198  TUB  VISION. 

Exeni|rted,  he  wbo  knew  so  teunicraloly 
To  luy  out  fortune's  gifta  ;  and  Niccolo, 
Who  firet  Ihe  spiee'a  coallj  lusury 
Diaoover'd  in  ItiaC  garden,'  where  Buch  ee 
Boats  deepest  in  the  holI  :  and  be  Itiat  Iroop 
Eiempled,  witli  whom  Cacciu  of  Asciiuio 
Lovleli'd  hia  vineyards  and  wide-sjireuding  wM 
And  hia  rare  wisdom  Abbagliato'  shaw'd 
A  spectacle  for  all.     Tliat  thou  mayat  know 
Who  seconds  lliee  against  the  Sicnnese 
Thna  gladly,  bend  tjus  way  thy  aliarpen'd  aigfat, 
Tbsj:  well  my  face  may  answer  to  thy  ken  ; 
So  shalt  thon  see  1  am  Capocchio's  ghost,' 
Who  forged  tronsmnted  metals  by  the  power 
Of  alchemy  ;  and  if  I  scan  thee  right. 
Thou  needa  must  well  remember  how  I  sped 
Creative  nature  by  my  subtle  art." 


^^y.             ^t 

™ll  ondonlood  by  lbs  c. 

wtaKh  wu  leniwt 

rMM." 

PmdlstlDl,  lo  b 

reBli>,lili.iiLeai>.L 

,  idducfls  B  p 

B.™sflttaii.aMS.Hi.lQryor 

SLenna.  In  which  i 

li  lold  IhBl  IJ 

nde  nf  Jhetr  MBle<  lial 

Bnlsco.whia. 

S"yloh»liilrfio 

iz,Tk 

^'h^ 

LhBt  amoDg  tbair 

ck  np  the 

proctou.  >hoa  If 

Ibey  dropped  off 

•".X 

l»«p€*tal,ei- 

■ay.,  ihey  jpent 

sr." 

Horses  >liod  w 

'  l>y"  Faitlo  degll 

libetll ; 

tifUriiM 

Quel  EoDeno  Buitcmilo 

ch«d>BI« 

•a 

lealed  lo  Ibe  wolld  Ibe  hllndness  of  On 
64  little  doubt,  however,  is  mude  of  Ibere  Mmg  «acn  a  per- 
Ada.  IbJiL  AlLuecl  fipeuks  of  hlb  graiutthther  Folunccblero  ito* 
Folcaccbieli,  of  ^eano.  as  one  who  muy  djfilttlle  wj^  the 
Sieillana  Ihe  imilw  of  belnf;  tbo  first  iDveruiH  of  Itsllso  pn- 
etry.  Tlmhoschi,  Indeed,  observes,  that  [lil>  geneatogy  Is  not 
aothenllcaleil  by  Allnccl ;  yelll is  illflicult  In suppoie  that  he 
•hould  bave  oienUoned  II  hi  nil,  if  Ueo  de'  FidcBccblert,  or 
Abbs^iBlo,  ns  he  was  called,  bad  never  ailitsd.  Vol.  1,  n.  . 
OS.    Mi.  Mi.lblBi' edll.  -      • 

■  CapsaJaa's  gkasl.]    Capocchlo  of  Sic 


HELL,  Canto  XXX. 


CANTO   XXX. 


AKGUMENT. 


It  bum'J  iu  Juno's  breast 
For  Scmele  against  the  Tliebun  blood, 
Ab  monr  (ban  once  in  dire  miacbunce  woa  rued  ; 
Such  fatal  pbrenay  Bailed  on  Atbumas,' 
That  he  bia  apouae  beholding  with  a  babe 
Laden  on  either  arm,  "  Spread  out,"  he  cried, 
"  The  meBhes,  that  I  lake  the  lioness 
And  Iho  younE  lions  at  the  pass  :"  then  forth 
Stietch'd  be  hie  merciless  talonn,  graspiag  one. 
One  helpless  innocent,  Learchus  oEimed, 
Whom  swinging  down  bo  dosb'd  npon  a  rock  ; 
And  with  her  other  biirden,^  aelf-destroy'd, 
The  hajdess  mother  plnnged.     And  when  the  pride 
Of  all-preBumiDg  Troy  feQ  Oom  its  ))<?ight, 
By  rortnne  overwhelm'd,  and  the  old  king 
With  liis  realm  perieb'd ;  tlion  did  Hecuba,' 
A  wretch  furloru  and  captive,  when  she  saw 
Folyxena  first  slaughter' d,  and  her  son, 
Her  Polydorus,'  on  the  wild  sea-beach 
Next  met  the  moumor'H  view,  then  reft  of  Benae 
Did  she  run  barking  even  as  a  dog  ; 
Such  mighty  power  had  grief  to  wrench  her  sonl. 
But  ne'er  the  Fiuioa,  or  of  Thobes,  or  Troy, 
With  such  fell  cruelly  were  seen,  their  goada 
Infixing  in  the  limbs  of  man  or  beast, 
As  now  two  pale  and  nEiked  ghosts  I  saw, 
That  gnailing  wildly  scamper'd,  bke  the  awins 
Excluded  from  his  atye.     Oae  reach'd  Capocchio, 
And  in  the  neck-joint  aticking  deep  bis  fangs, 
Dragg'd  bun,  that,  o'er  the  solid  paveiueul  rubb'd 


■^ 


200  THE  VISION. 

His  belly  Btrotch'd  out  prono,     Tho  other  Bhape. 
He  of  Aieiio,  (here  loA  trembling,  Bpske : 
"  Thnt  iprite  of  nit  is  Bohicchi ;'  in  like  mood 
or  random  mischief  venta  he  still  hia  gpite." 

To  whom  I  answering ;  "  Oh  I  u  thou  dost  ho^ 
The  other  may  not  ile^  its  j&ws  oi 
Be  patient  to  inform  lui,  who  tt  is, 
Ere  it  speed  hence," — "  That  la  Ihe  ai 
Of  wretched  Myirba,'"  he  replied,  "  who  bum'd    | 
With  moat  unholy  Saiao  for  her  own  aire, 
And  a  false  aliape  aaeuming,  ao  perform'd 
The  deed  of  Rii ;  e'en  as  the  other  Ihere, 
That  aaward  passes,  dared  to  cDonterfcit 

For  hia  own  ahare,  the  lady  of  (he  herd."  ' 

When  THoiah'd  Ihe  two  furioua  ahadsa,  on  who 

Mine  eye  waa  held,  I  tom'd  it  back  li 

The  other  curaed  spirits.    One  I  saw 

la  fashion  like  a  lute,  had  but  the  eroiu 

Been  sever'd  where  it  meets  the  foAed  part. 

Swoln  dropey,  disprepartloning  the  limbs 

With  ill-eOHvertod  moisture,  that  Ihe  paunch 

Suits  not  the  visage,  open'd  wide  I '    '' 

GasjNng  as  in  the  hectic  ma    ' 

One  towards  the  chin,  the  other  upward  cuii'd. 
"Oye!  who  in  this  world  of  misery, 

Wherefore  I  know  not,  are  exempt  from  pain," 

Thus  he  began,  "  attentively  regard 

Adamo'e  wo.'     Wheu  living,  fnll  supply 

Ne'er  lack'd  me  of  what  most  I  coveted  ; 

One  drop  of  water  now,  ala 

The  rills,  thnt  glitter  down  the  grassy  slopes 

Of  Casentino,*  making  freali  and  soft 

lalba  ceKinblspce  of  othBiB.  Hut  he  wu  eniplojEd  brSlmna 
Donaii  lu  personBle  Bnoso  Dnnall,  Iben  reDsntly  decHied, 
and  lo  make  B  wiU, leaving  einioDliii  heir;  forwbleli  servics 
he  waa  rcDiuneraLBd  witb  a  mare  of  extranrdlQuy  value,  hei« 
called  "the  iady  of  Ltie  berd." 
9  JtfyrrtA,]    See  Ovid.  Melmn.,  lilk  i. 

Guldn,  Alassandro.  and  their  bralhet  AgUnnlfb.  la^a  oTKo- 

he  was  bornl-  Londlno  sayEi,  Ibal  In  Edi  time  ^i^e  peaflanb 
Bllll  pointed  oot  a  pile  of  •tonea  near  Bameoa.  a«  tiio  placis 
of  bli  elecnllnn.    See  Troya,  Vellro  AJIefpirieo,  p.  SS. 


et-1&  HELL,  CujTO  XXX.  QOl 

The  buikB  whersby  they  glide  to  Amo's  atieaiu. 

Stand  ever  in  my  viow  ;  aud  not  in  vain  ; 

For  more  tb(>  pictured  sembluuce  drisB  me  op. 

Much  more  thaa  tbe  diseusG,  irbjch  makes  the  fledi 

Desert  tliew  ahrivoli'd  nheelu.     So  from  the  piaoe. 

Where  I  ttanBgress'd,  atem  juBticu  iirgii^  me, 

Takes  menus  to  quicken  more  my  luboriug  liighs. 

There  is  Roraana,  whore  I  falsitiiMl 

The  metal  with  the  Baptist'e  form  inipreea'd, 

For  which  on  esrth  I  left  my  body  buruL 

Bnt  if  I  here  might  eeo  the  Borrowing  soul 

Of  Guido,  AUarandro,  or  their  brothnr, 

For  Bninda's  limpid  spring'  I  would  not  ohaiige 

The  welcome  jsighl.     One  la  e'en  now  withju, 

If  truly  the  mad  qiirils  tell,  that  round 

A™  wondering.     But  wherein  btBteads  me  that? 

My  limba  are  fetterU     Were  I  but  bo  light. 

That  I  each  hundred  years  might  move  one  inch, 

I  had  set  forth  already  on  this  path, 

Seeking  him  out  amidst  the  ahapelesg  crew, 

AllhoDgfa  eleven  miles  it  wind,  not  leas' 

Than  half  of  one  across.     They  brought  ma  clown 

Among  this  tribe ;  induced  by  them,  I  atamp'd 

The  florins  with  tliree  Cdrats  of  alloy.'" 

■*  Who  are  that  abject  pair,"  1  next  inquired, 
"  That  oloaely  bounding  thee  npon  thy  right 
Lie  smoking,  like  a  band  in  winter  ateep'd 
Jn  the  chili  atream  1" — "  When  to  this  giif  1  dcopp'd," 


'  Branita'M  iHBviiiprint: 
•  /^>.j  LnnHHrrllJniirf 
la  eiHoenite  the  dlffinglly 
wkb^.H.'-i>.eo,'-udDa 

•■V"~ 

Z-s.: 

■at»",r 

SfS 

rrst 

FW»lpdB|HUtanin«.tlM 

•tgdd. 

pomeracomoron 

del  flarl 

HJ  al  Wooil!l 

Khibey 

(leaUrcdmoUHilnEDglaiul. 

V.SBBO. 

r  and  bricbL 

Bdwstd  Ihs  Tlilnl,  In  13M,  a 

lereU  II  (yom  »  lowfli 

Blue  Id 

Soa  THE  VISION. 

He  BDBwer'd,  "  here  I  fiiFimd  [hem ;  aince  that 

They  have  not  tum'd,  uoc  ever  ahttU,  I  waea. 


Tillli 


B  halh 


ID  his  CI 


The  fclse  aceuaer"  of  tho  Hebrew  youth ; 
Stnoa  the  other,  that  false  Greek  from  Troy. 
Sharp  fever  drains  the  reeky  moiBtaesa  out, 
In  such  a  cloud  upateam'd."     When  that  he  b 
One,  gaird  perchance  to  be  bo  darkly  namBd, 
With  ctench'd  baud  smote  him  on  thehracedps 
That  like  a  dram  reeounded :  but  forthwith 
Adsmo  imota  hini  on  the  face,  the  blow 
Returning  with  his  arm,  that  aeem'd  as  hard. 

"  Though  my  o'erweighty  limba  have  ta'en  from  mo 
The  power  lo  rnova,"  aaid  ho,  "  I  have  a 
At  liberty  for  such  employ."    To  whom 
Waa  answer'd :  "  When  thou  wentett  to  the  fire," 
TliDu  hodat  it  not  >o  ready  at  coinmaDd, 
Then  readier  when  it  coin'd  the  impoMor  gnld." 

And  thus  the  dropsied;  "Ay,  now  speak'st 
But  there  thou  gavest  not  such  true  teatimony,    [tm 
When  Ihou  wast  qnealion'd  of  the  truth,  at  Troy.' 

"  If  I  spake  false,  tbou  falHely  Htump'dBt  the  coir 
Said  Sinoa  ;  "  I  am  here  for  but  one  fault, 
And  thou  for  more  than  any  imp  beside." 

"  RemBmbcr,"  he  replied,  "  O  peliurad  one ! 
The  horse  renvemberi  that  did  team  with  death 
And  all  the  world  be  witnesa  to  thy  guilt-" 

"  To  thine,"  return'dlhe  Greek."  witness  the 
WheucB  thy  tongue  cracks,  witnesa  Ihe  flaid 
Rear'd  by  (hy  belly  up  before  thine  eyes, 
A  maaa  corrupt"     To  wham  the  ooiner  thus 
"  Thy  mouth  gapes  wide  as  ever  Co  let  paaa 
Ita  evil  saying.     Me  if  thirst  aeBsibi, 
Yet  I  am  stiiff'd  with  moialuro.     Thou  art 
Faina  rack  t)i]r  head ;  uo  urging  wouldat  the 
To  make  tJiA  lap  Naroisaus'  mirror  up." 

I  waa  all  fii'd  to  listen,  when  my  guide 
Admonlah'd :  "  Now  beware.     A  little  more. 
And  I  do  quarrel  with  tliee."     I  perceived 
How  angrily  he  spake,  and  towards  him  tnrri'd 
With  abame  so  poignant,  aa  remembered  yet 
Confounda  me.     As  a  man  that  dreams  of  hnrm 
BefaUen  him,  dreaming  wisliea  it  a  dream, 

ISuch  then  waa  I,  who,  wanting  power  to  b) 


!l^^ 


t.  /oV.r 


wife. 


13B-14S.  HELL,  Ca.«™  XXXI.  30i 

Wiah'd  to  eircnsB  mysBlf,  and  aU  the  wlille 
Eo!iisedme,thoiighnDK'eetinglhBt  I  did.     [Bfaanip,' 
"  Mora  grievooH  fault  thau  Iliine  lias  been,  lesi 
My  maalpr  cried,  "  might  eipiatB.     Tliereforo  cnat 
AU  floiraw  trom  thy  soul  ^  and  if  again 
Chance  bring  Ihea,  whore  like  conference  k  heJd, 
Think  I  am  ever  at  Ihy  side.     To  hear 
Snch  wrxQgling  h  a  joy  for  ynlgar  rainds." 


CANTO   XXXI. 

AHGUMENT. 
Thtf  PoeU,  rollowlpf  Ihe  Aogqd  of  a  Inaii  honi)  are  ledby  Lt 
Ut  Uu  jtiath  drcie,  In  which  theru  ar«  Tuur  touada.  one  ea- 

Tnllsn;  bul  IhHpTBieni  Cinipahomi  only  ihallhe  circle 

The  very  tongue,'  wboHB  keen  reproof  befora 
Had  wounded  me,  (bat  «ilher  cbeek  was  Btain'd, 
Sow  miniBter'd  luy  cure.     So  have  I  board, 
Achillea'  and  bis  rNtlier'H  javelin  caused 
Paiu  first,  and  then  the  boon  of  health  reatored. 

Turning  our  back  upon  Ilie  vale  of  wo. 
We  croBs'd  the  encirclod  mound  in  eilenop.     There 
Was  les  than  day  and  iras  Ilian  tiiglit,  that  fat 
Mine  eye  advanced  uot:  but  I  heard  a  horn 
Sounded  bo  loud,  the  peal  it  rang  had  made 


1 


r 

Is  Ctunrer'i  Bciulsi^  Tale,  a  sword  at  >imllBr  quaUly  li 

Thai  conld  ID  ptcrccn  IbtDUEb  every  ihlnE ; 
And  fetl  In  .peecta  ofTeloi.hu.  Ihe  Ubk, 
Andof  Acbifiei  for  hl>  quolnlipoie. 
For  bo  DOBlti  wUh  11  todi  heale  anit  dere. 

ffSisSri-SKsri--- 

k- 

3 

a04  THE  VISION. 

Tha  thunder  feeble.     Following  ils  course 

Tbe  adverao  way,  tny  slreined  oyea  were  benl 

Oa  that  ODS  spot     So  terrible  u  blaiit 

Orlando'  blew  uot,  when  thut  dkmal  mat 

O'erthrew  the  boat  at  Cbarlemain,  and  quenoh'd 

His  aainlly  warfare.     Thitherward  not  long 

My  head  was  raised,  wlieu  many  a  lofty  lower 

Mttbought  1  Hpied-     "  Master,"  said  I,  "what  Land 

Is  tiiia  ?"    He  anawer'd  atrai^t :  "  Too  long  a  tpt 

Of  iaterveoiug  darkness  has  thtna  eye 

To  traTBraa :  tbou  hast  tberofore  widely  err'd 

In  Iby  imagining.     Thither  arrived 

ThoD  well  sbalt  see,  how  distance  can  delude 

The  sense.     A  Utile  therefore  ur^  Ihee  on." 

Then  tenderly  he  caught  me  by  the  hand : 
"  Yet  know,"  said  be,  "  ere  farther  we  advunce. 
That  it  less  straage  may  seem,  these  are  not  tont 
But  ^anls.     In  the  pit  they  stand  inuneised, 
Each  from  bla  naveE  downward,  round  the  bank.'' 

As  when  a  fog  di8]Hreeth  gradually. 
Our  yieiou  traces  what  the  inist  involves 
Condensed  io  air ;  bo  piercing  tlirough  the  groes 
And  gloouiy  atmospliere,  as  more  and  more 
We  near'd  toward  the  brink,  mine  eiror  Sed, 
And  feai  came  o'er  mo.     As  with  circling  tDOnd 
Of  turrets,  Montercggion'  orowns  bis  walbr ; 
E'en  thus  tbe  shore,  encompassing  the  abyss. 
Was  lurreted  with  giants,*  half  their  length 
Uprearing,  horrible,  whom  Jove  from  heavei) 
Yet  threatens,  when  bis  muttering  thunder  rolls. 

Of  one  already  I  doscried  the  face, 
Shoulders,  and  breaal,  and  of  the  beltf  hnge 
Great  part,  and  both  arms  down  along  bis  ribs. 

All-teeming  Nature,  when  her  plastic  band 
Left  framing  of  these  monsteiB,  did  display 
Past  doubt  her  wisdom,  tuking  from  mad  Wat 

When  Chnrlemnln  wllh  all  hiajpeorage  ftll 

AI  FoBlanMa.  MUm,  P.  I~.b.l.sSI 

dkimncA  if  twenty  jnktes."    GbDrloinaiii  and  Orlando  aj 
unluced  In  Uu  Puaaiie,  Canlo  irlli. 

I  OiiHls.]  The  gUnu  round  the  dl.  It  is  lemaiked  bv 
Warun,  are  In  the  Aimblan  vsln  of  ftbUag.  See  D'HarbeloL 
Slfil.  Orientale.  V.aaeaJ\,  ^IVt.i. 


1 
1 


tVTd.  HELL,  Cunro  XXXI.  SOQ 

Such  slaves  (0  do  hia  iHddiDg ;  and  if  ehs 

Kepent  bet  Dot  or  the  sleplianC  aod  whde, 

Who  ponders  well  canreBe«  her  therein 

Wiser  and  more  discreet ;  for  when  brute  forca 

And  evil  will  nre  back'd  with  subtlety, 

ReaialonCD  none  STEtils.     Hia  visage  seem'd 

In  length  and  bulk,  as  doth  the  pine'  that  tops 

Saint  Peter's  Romiui  fane  ;  and  the  other  bones 

or  like  proportion,  eo  that  from  above 

The  bonk,  which  girdled  him  belnw,  such  height 

Arose  his  stature,  that  three  Friezelanders 

Had  striven  in  vain  to  reach  but  to  his  hair. 

Full  thirty  ample  pahns  was  be  exposed 

Downward  fnnn  whence  a  luan  bis  garment  loops. 

■'  Raphel'  bal  ameth,  eabl  abnl :" 

So  sboirled  bis  fierce  lips,  which  sweeter  hymns 

Became  not ;  and  my  guide  address'd  him  thus : 

<■  O  senseless  spirit  I  let  thy  hom  for  thee 

Interpret :  therewith  vent  thy  rage,  if  rage 

Or  otiier  pasaina  wring  thee.     Search  thy  neck, 

There  shalt  thou  find  the  belt  that  binds  it  on. 

Spirit  confused  i^  lo,  on  thy  mighty  breast 

Where  bangs  the  baldrick  !"    Then  to  me  be  spoke : 

"  He  doth  accuse  himselt    Nimrod  is  this. 

Through  whose  ill  counsel  iu  tbe  world  no  mare 

One  tougue  prevtuk.    But  paen  we  on,  nor  waste 

Our  words :  for  bo  each  language  is  lo  him, 

As  hia  lo  others,  underetood  by  none." 

Then  lo  the  leftward  turning  sped  we  forth, 
And  at  a  sUng'a  throw  foimd  another  shade 
Far  fiercer  and  more  huge.     I  cannot  aay 
What  master  band  had  girt  him ;  but  he  held 
Behind  the  right  arm  fetter'd,  aud  before, 


...]    ' 


lolaigfl  pLneof  brunze,  w 


■  jtaytot,  tt.]  Thete  u 
rite  town  of  Babel. 


otenvM,  Ibai  "  ■niim  c 


atopa  of  this  palace,  craoHfenvd 


at  Uie  boUdlDg 
"WlLdiplrlt!" 
fasa''  is  per uliarLy  opproprkale  (o 


306  THE  VISION.  80-U2. 

ThG  other,  vilh  a  cbaiu,  thut  fasten *d  him 

From  [lio  neck  dovni ;  and  five  timee  round  his  form 

AppiireQt  met  the  wrualbed  links.    "  This  prond  one 

Would  of  Ills  Btrpugih  agaiuat  aJoiiglity  Jove 

Make  trial,"  said  my  guide :  "  whenea  he  ia  thus 

Requited:  Epiiialtes  him  they  ealL 

Great  was  bis  proweaa,  when  the  giants  bronght 

Fbu  oq  tiie  eoie:  tliose  arms,  which  then  he  plisd, 

Kow  moves  he  never."     Forthwith  !  retuni'd : 

"  Fain  would  1,  if  't  were  poaaible,  mine  ayes, 

Of  Briueus  imineaaniable,  gain'd 

Experience  neit"      He  anewer'd !  "  Thon  ahalt  see 

Not  far  from  hence  AhIihub,  who  both  apeaka 

And  LB  unfetter'd,  who  ahall  place  ub  there 

Where  guilt  ia  at  its  depth.     Far  onward  stands 

Whom  thou  wouldat  fain  behold,  in  cbaina,  and  made 

Like  to  this  B[ririt,  nave  that  in  his  looks 

More  fell  he  eeems."     By  violent  earthqaake  rock'd 

Ne'er  shook  a  towOF,  bo  reeling  to  its  haao, 

Ab  EphiaJtea.     More  than  ever  then 

I  dreaded  death  ;  nor  than  the  terror  more 

Had  needed,  if  I  had  not  seen  the  corda 

That  held  him  fast.  We,  atTaightway  joomaying 

Came  to  Antsus,  who,  five  ella  cooiplete 

Without  the  head,  forth  Issued  from  the  c 

"  O  thou,  who  in  the  fortunate  vale,'  that  made 
Great  Scijno  heir  of  glory,  when  his  sword 
Drove  back  the  troop  of  Hannibal  in  Qight, 
Who  thence  of  old  <l>d8t  carry  for  thy  apoil 
An  hundred  lions  ;  and  if  thou  hsd^t  fought 
lo  the  high  conflict  on  thy  brethren's  side, 
Seems  aa  men  yet  believed,  that  through  thine 
The  sons  of  earth  had  couquer'd  ;  now  voucbsgib 
To  place  us  down  beneath,  where  niunbing  cold 
Locks  up  CocytUB.     Force  not  tliat  we  crave 
Or  Tityus'  help  or  Typhoa'a.     Hero  ia  one 
Can  ^ve  what  in  thb  realm  ye  covet     Stoop 
Therefore,  nor  scornfully  distort  thy  lip. 
He  in  the  uppef  world  can  yet  beatuw 
Renown  on  thee  ;  for  hs  doth  live,  and  looka 
For  life  yet  longer,  if  beforo  the  time 
Grace  call  him  not  unto  herself."     Thus  spake 
The  teacher.     Ho  in  haste  forth  stretch'  ■  ■  "    ■ 


ids 

1 


ee 


HELL,  Canto  XXXI. 


907 


And  canglit  my  guide.    Alddee*  whilom  felt 
lliat  grapple,  straiten'd  sore.    Soon  as  my  guide 
Had  felt  it,  he  beepake  me  thus :  "  This  way. 
That  I  may  claap  thee  f  *  then  so  caught  me  up. 
That  we  were  both  one  burden.    Ab  appean 
The  tower  of  Carisenda,*  from  beneath 
Where  it  doth  lean,  if  chance  a  paasing  cloud 
So  sail  across,  that  opposite  it  hangs ; 
Such  then  AntsBUs  seem'd,  as  at  mine  ease 
I  mark'd  him  stooping.    I  were  fain  at  times 
To  have  pass'd  another  way.    Yet  in  the  abyss. 
That  Lucifer  with  Judas  low  ingulfs, 
Lightly  he  placed  us ;  nor,  there  leaning,  stay'd  ; 
But  rose,  as  in  a  bark  the  stately  mast 

CANTO  XXXII. 


ARGUMENT. 

This  Canto  treats  of  the  first,  and,  in  part,  of  the  second  of 
those  ruunds,  into  which  the  nintli  and  last,  or  flrozen  cir- 
cie,  is  divided.  In  the  former,  called  Caina,  Dante  finds 
Camiccione  de'  Pazzi,  who  gives  him  an  account  of  other 
sinners  who  are  there  punished ;  and  in  the  next,  named 
Antenora,  he  hears  in  like  manner  from  Bocca  dcgli  Abbatl 
who  his  fellow-sufferers  are. 

Could  I  command  rough  rhymes  and  hoarse,  to 
That  hole  of  sorrow  o'er  which  every  rock  [suit 

His  firm  abutment  rears,  then  might  the  vein 
Of  fancy  rise  full  springing :  but  not  mine 
Such  measures,  and  with  faltering  awe  I  touch 
The  mighty  theme ;  for  to  describe  the  depth 
Of  all  the  universe,  is  no  emprize 
To  jest  with,  and  demands  a  tongue  not  used 
To  infant  babbling.'     But  let  them  assist 

>  Meides.]  The  combat  between  Hercules  and  Anteus  Is 
adduced  by  the  Poet  in  his  treatise  "  De  Monarchic,"  lib.  ii., 
as  a  proof  of  the  judgment  of  God  displayed  in  the  dudj 
according  to  the  singular  superstition  of  those  times.  "  Cer- 
taminc  vero  dnpliciter  Dei  judicium  aperitnr  vel  ex  coUi- 
sione  vu'ium,  sicut  fit  per  duellura  pugilum,  qui  duelliones 
etiam  vocantur ;  vel  ex  contentione  plurium  ad  aliquod  sig- 
num  pnevalere  conantium,  sicut  fit  per  pugnam  athietarum 
currentiura  ad  bravium.  Primus  istorura  modorum  apud 
gentiles  figuratus  fuit  in  illo  duello  Herculis  et  Antsi,  ci^jus 
Lucanus  meminit  in  quarto  Pharsalise,  et  Ovidius  in  nono  de 
rerum  transmutatione." 

3  7%e  tower  of  Carisenda.]    The  leaning  tower  at  Bologna. 

'  j5  toriffue  not  used 

To  infant  biUfbling:] 

N6  da  lingua,  che  chiami  mamma,  o  babbo. 


308  TH&  VISION. 

My  Kootr,  Ihe  luneful  maidens,  by  whnae  aid 

Ainpbion  wall'd  in  Tliebes ;  so  witb  the  traCh 

My  Hp«cDh  ahKll  best  accord.     OJi  ill-staiT'd  folk, 

Beyund  all  otben  wretched  i  wbo  abido 

Iti  sucb  a  man»oiXp  as  acorce  thought  finds  wonb 

To  apeak  of,  better  had  ye  here  on  earth 

Been  flocks,  or  mounlaiu  goals.     Ah  down  we  stoo 


Slill  DO  iho  lofty  baltlement,  a  to 

Bpcpako  me  ihiu;  "Look  bow  tbou  walkeat.    Tihtl] 

Good  heed,  thy  vAee  da  tread  not  on  the  beac 

Of  tliy  poor  brethren,"    Thereupon  I  tnm'd, 

And  saw  before  and  underneBtir  my  feet 

A  lake,'  whose  (roien  surface  tiker  seem'd 

To  glaw  than  water.     Not  so  thick  a  veil 

In  winter  e'er  bath  AiiBtrian  Dansbe  gpread 

O'er  hia  still  course,  nor  Tauab  far  remote 

Under  the  cliilling  oky.     Roll'd  o'er  that  moH 

Had  Tabemicli  or  Pietrapana'  fnllsn, 

Not  e'en  its  rim  liad  creak'd.     As  peeps  the  frog 

Croaking  above  the  wave,  what  lime  m  dreams 

Tbe  village  gleaner  oft  pursues  her  toil. 

So,  to  wbere  modest  shame  appeals,*  Ituui  low 

Blno  pinch'd  and  Bhrined  in  ice  the  sjHriItt  stood. 

Moving  their  teeth  in  ahriU  note  like  the  stork.* 


la  VnJg.  Eloq,'_'^  i 


lerlliAproptor  a 
Introduced  Into  Ibe  E 

conTr^  IVr— '-  '"--   -'  -— "™ 
IO."iidHid,  I 


nani  Worm,  » 


a  lierrest  eitmufa  of  btwt 
il.    Sefer  (o  ghakspenre  and 


calLod  IhE  Gnrfagn&na, 
l.highMlolhB&ca." 


d 


HELL,  Canto  XXXIl. 


;c  each  dowai 
Their  «y« 

A  spaco  1  look'd 
Saw  two  so  atrictly  join' 


held  ;  their  mouth  the  c 
dolor  of  their  heart, 
id,  tiieu  at  my  feet 
'   that  of  their  head 


very  haire  were  miuglod. 
Whose  boBonis  thou  tjigether  pretii,"  said  I, 
"  Who  are  ye  1"    At  that  sound  their  necka  they 

bent; 
And  wlien  their  looks  were  lifted  up  to  me, 
Straightway  their  eyes,  before  ull  moiat  witlun, 
Dbtill'd  upon  their  lipa,  uid  llie  frost  lioiuid 
The  tears  betwiit  thoea  orba,  and  held  them  there. 
Plank  unto  plank  hath  never  crauip  closed  up 
So  Btuntly.     Whence,  Uke  two  enraged  goats, 
They  clash'd  together :  them  aueh  fury  seized. 

Atu)  one.  from  whom  the  cold  both  eara  bad  reft, 
Eiclaim'd,  still  looking  downward :  <'  Why  on  us 
Dost  speculate  so  long  ?     If  thou  wouldst  know 
Who  are  these  two,'  the  valloy,  whence  hja  wave 
Biseiizio  slopes,  did  for  its  master  own 


At  that  one  blow  diraever'd ;  not  Focaccia ;' 
No,  not  this  spirit,  whose  o'erjutting  bond 
Obstruct*  my  outvoid  view ;  he  bore  the  name 
Of  Hascheroni  ^  Tuscan  if  thou  be. 


I  Wlu  art  Uetf  IM.]    Alesunilm  and  NspoleoDcxi 
AlbertD  Alhenl,  who  niunjnred  each  ulber.    They  wen 


hsTa  ilvsB  rlK  in  the  iMnln  ^the  Blsnchl  nnd  NsrI.  la 
flH  iw  1300.  Bee  li.  VlllanI,  HIiL.  lib.  vlll.  e.  37.  and 
Mu^lavelli,  Hist,  lib.  li.  The  accounl  of  Ihn  lAtliiT  wi\u-i 
'"  -  ■    -         ■  ,1  gtven  by  Landiao  li 


210  THE  VISION, 

Well  kooneKt  who  he  was.     And  ta  cut  Hhint 

All  furlher  qimtinn,  in  my  fonn  b«liold 

What  ones  wu>  Camiccione,'     I  await 

CarhnD'  here  my  kinsman,  wliDse  deep  guilt 

Shall  wash  out  mine."     A  Chausand  vifla^ 

Then  [Dnrk'd  I,  wliich  (he  keen  and  eager  cold 

Had  shaped  into  a  dog^h  grin  ;  whence  creeps 

A  shivering  horror  o'er  me,  at  the  thought 

Of  those  fmre  aliallowB.     While  we  joumoy'd 

Toward  the  middle,  at  whoso  point  unites 

All  heavy  substanoe,  and  I  trembling  went 

Through  thai  eternal  chillnras,  I  know  not 

If  will'  it  were,  or  desthiy,  or  channe, 

But,  pBffling  'midst  the  hoads,  my  foot  did  strike 

With  violent  blow  against  the  face  of  one.     [ctahn'd. 

"Wherefore  doal  bmiso  mo7"    weeping  ho  ei- 
"  UnlMs  thy  errand  bo  soma  fresh  rovsnga 
For  Montaperto,'  wherefore  (roubleat  mel" 

I  tbns;  "  Instmclor,  now  await  me  here. 
That  I  through  him  may  rid  ma  of  my  doabt: 
Thenceforth  what  haste  thou  wilt"     The  teacher 
And  to  that  ahado  I  spake,  who  bitterly        [paused ; 
Still  cursed  me  hi  his  wrath.    "  What  art  thou, 
That  railest  thus  on  others  ?"    He  replied ; 
"  Now  who  art  thou,  that  smiting  othera'  cheeks, 
Throngh  Antenom'  roamest,  with  such  fores 
As  were  past  BuS^rance,  wert  thou  living  BtiS?" 

"And  1  am  living,  to  thy  joy  perohaiiee," 
Waa  my  reply,  "  if  fame  be  dear  to  thee, 

I  OnoJceiino.]   CBRiIccione  de'  FszeI  of  VtUduno,  by  wbam 
blB  klntiuun  Ubenlno  wu  ueschernuil;  pnl  to  death. 
■  Carlino.)    One  ur  tlM  nine  l^illf.    Be  lieliuyed  Ilia 

nder  Ihc  reragees  ofUie'Bisnca  nai  GhibeLLlne  psrly  bad 

mer  dT  13m.    See  O.  Vtllaai,  lib,  vlil.  c  HI.,  and  Ulno  Com- 

'^'»a(.l' 

WiHjlher  npheld  by  itiaogch,  or  chance,  or  ftle. 

•  Xmlapa-lo.i  The  defeat  of  the  Oueld  al  HantapertD, 
DCcaslDiied  liy  Ihe  irenchery  of  Bocca  dogtl  Ahbatl,  who,ilB- 

c  Ini.  and  Holes  id  Caalo  i.    This  eveal  happened  Id  USO. 

Dictyi  Crcleatl*  {Se  Bello  Tn||.,  lib.  v.)  sad  Dares  P^ygliu 
(TW  Eicidio  TroJEj  beliajM  Troy  his  conntry."  tMniarJi. 
Sea  BBM  on  Puig,  Canio  v.  7a.  Anlenar  bgu  this  pari  la 
Boccaculn'a  FlloaOalo,  and  In  Ctuncer*!  TloUni  and  Cieselda 


r   -^1 


BELL,  CiKTO  XXXU. 

That  with  Ihe  real  1  may  Ihy  Dams  enj 

"  The  contrary  of  what  1  Corel  most 

Ssid  he,  "  thou  tonder'Bl :  hance !  nor  ■ 

III  knowcat  thou,  to  flattoT  iu  (his  Tale." 


Than  I 


■>  Rend  all  a 
I  will  not  tell,  nol  ihow  thee.  wliD  I  am, 
Though  at  my  heud  thou  pluck  a  thousoiid  tlmcB." 

Nqw  1  had  grasp'd  hia  tre^eH,  uiid  tttrlpp^d  off 
More  than  ons  tuft,  he  barking,  with  hln  eyes 
Drawn  in  and  downward,  when  atinther  cried, 
"  What  uIb  thee,  liocca?     Sound  not  Inud  enough 
Thy  chattering  teeth,  but  (hou  must  hurk  outdghtl 
What  devil  wnugB thee 7"~"  Now,"suid  1,"  bo  dumb, 
Aucuned  traitor!     To  thy  ahame,  of  Ihre 
True  lldingB  will  I  boar."—"  Off;"  he  replied  ; 
"  Tell  what  thou  list :  but,  as  thou  Bcupe  from  hence. 
To  apeak  of  him  whoae  tongue  hatli  been  so  gtib, 
Fotfel  not :  heje  he  waila  the  Freneliman'H  gold. 
'Hiin  of  Uuera,''  thou  canst  any, '  I  murk'd, 
■  Where  the  alurved  dnnera  )Hne.'     If  thou  be  ask'd 
What  other  shade  was  with  Ihetn,  at  thy  aide 
Is  Beccaria,'  whoae  red  gorge  diuluin'd 
The  biting  axe  of  Florenue.     Farther  on, 
If  I  misdeem  not,  Soldanieri'  bidea. 
With  Ganellon,'  and  Tribaldolto,'  him 


had  twen  Intnuled  by 


ttae  Ohlballlnsi.  open  la  the  amiy  of 
}.  1963,  Al  wbLch  die  people  of  On- 
Ih&L  tiay  eiUr}AUd  Ibe  whale  loiiiUy. 


LnleuFl 


*  SMBa-ri.]  "  0[u^  aoUuHori,"  np  ViUnni.  HiiL,  lib. 
tB,  e.  xlv.  "  pDI  himieir  at  Ihe  heail  or  Ihs  psepls,  In  Ihe 
bopet  of  Tulnf  Into  power,  not  aware  Ltial  the  teiolL  woqjd 
be  mlichier  lo  Ihs  Ghlbelllne  pony,  imd  hli  own  mln ;  an 


SI9 


TIIE  VISION. 


Who  oped  Faenia  when  the  peojile  slepl." 

Wo  now  had  left  him,  pnssing'  on  out  way, 
When  I  beheld  two  apirits  by  the  ice 
Pant  in  one  hollow,  that  the  head  of  one 
Was  cowl  unto  the  other;  and,  aa  bread 
la  raven'd  up  through  hunger,  the  uppermost 
■"■■     I  appiy  his  fuD,       


Wher 


lOJOU 


Not 


On  Monahppua'  tomplea  Tydcu 

Than  on  that  skull  and  on  ita  goj-t^ge  he^ 

"O  thou!  who  ehow'at  BO  beastly  sign  of  hate 
'Gainst  him  thou  prey'st  on,  let  mo  hear,"  said  I, 
"  The  cause,  on  Buch  coadilion,  thut  if  right 
Wairaat  thy  grievance,  knowing  who  ye  are. 
And  what  the  color  of  hb  ainniug  was, 
I  may  repay  thee  in  the  world  abore, 
If  that,  wherewith  I  Bp«ak,  be  moist  bo  long." 


CANTO    XXXIII. 


rcHdy  lo 


de*  GherardeKhl  ol 

I  children  wen  (kmli , 

.  nl'  ibe  AnbUthop  KnCt'l 
iilrd  Tonnd,  mlled  PMjP 
vha  hnve  betrayed  othen 

ml  In  Ihil  plsce,  Iboogb 
e  lUHin  the  < — *-  "■-' — 


HiB  jaws  uplifting  from  their  fell  repast. 
That  sinner  wiped  them  on  the  halts  o'  the  head. 
Which  he  behind  had  mangled,  then  began: 
"Thy  will  obcyidg,  I  call  up  afresh 
Kerrow  past  cure  ;  which,  but  to  think  of,  wrtnga   I 

Thai  I  may  utter,  shall  prove  i 


C»«ii«r,  Ifmnu/M  PrietU'i 

And  Intlie Hnake'js ThIo,  reter of  Spslao. 

to  betray  tlie  cily  ot  Faenia,  A.  0. 1382.    G.  VI] 


9^14.  HELL,  Canto  XXXUL  S13 

Fruit  of  eternal  infamy  to  him, 

The  traitor  whom  I  gnaw  at,  thou  at  once 

Shalt  see  me  qpeak  uid  weep.    Who  thou  mayit  be 

I  know  not,  nor  how  here  below  art  come : 

Bat  Florentine  thou  seemest  of  a  truth. 

When  I  do  hear  thee.     Elnow,  I  was  on  earth 

Count  Ugolino,^  and  the  Archbishop  he 

1  Count  Ugelino.]  **  In  the  year  1388,  in  the  month  of  Jnly, 
Pisa  was  much  divided  by  competitora  for  the  lovereignty : 
one  party,  composed  of  certain  of  the  Gaelphl,  being  heailed 
by  the  Judge  Nino  di  Gallura  de'  Visconti ;  another,  cunsisl- 
ing  of  others  of  the  same  faction,  by  the  Count  Ugolino  de* 
Gherardeschi ;  and  a  third  by  the  Archbishop  Ruggleri  degll 
Ubaldini,  with  the  Lanfranchi,  Sismondi,  Gualandi,  and  other 
Ghibeliine  houses.  The  Ck>unt  Ugoiino,  to  eficct  his  pur- 
pose, imited  with  the  Archbishop  and  his  party,  and  having 
betrayed  Nino,  his  sister's  son,  they  contrived  that  he  and 
his  followers  should  either  be  driven  out  of  Pisa,  or  their 
persons  seized.  Nino,  hearing  this,  and  not  seeing  any 
means  of  defending  himself,  reUred  to  Calci,  his  cantlc,  and 
formed  an  alliance  with  the  Florentines  and  people  of  Lucca, 
against  the  Pisans.  The  Count,  liefore  Nino  was  gone.  In 
order  to  cover  his  treachery,  when  every  thing  was  settled 
for  his  expulsion,  quitted  Pisa,  and  repaired  to  a  manor  of 
his  called  Settimo ;  whence,  as  soon  as  he  was  infonned  of 
Nino's  departure,  he  returned  to  Pisa  with  great  rejoicing 
and  festivity,  and  was  elevated  to  the  supreme  power  with 
every  demonstration  of  triumph  and  honor.  But  his  great- 
ness was  not  of  long  continuance.  It  pleased  the  Almighty 
that  a  total  reverse  of  fortune  should  ensue,  as  a  punish- 
ment for  his  acts  of  treachery  and  guilt ;  for  he  was  said  to 
have  poisoned  the  Count  Anselmo  da  Capraia,  his  sister's 
son,  on  account  of  the  envy  and  fear  excited  in  his  mind  by 
the  high  esteem  in  which  the  gracious  manners  of  Anselmo 
were  held  by  the  Pisans.  The  power  of  the  Guclphi  being 
so  much  diminished,  the  Archbishop  devised  means  to  be- 
tray the  Count  Ugolino,  and  caused  him  to  be  suddenly  at- 
tacked in  his  palace  by  the  fury  of  the  people,  whom  he  had 
exasperated,  by  telling  them  that  Ugolino  had  betrayed  Pisa, 
and  given  up  their  castles  to  the  citizens  of  Florence  and  of 
Lucca.  He  was  immediately  compelled  to  surrender;  his 
bastard  son  and  his  grandson  fell  in  the  assault ;  and  two  of 
his  sons,  with  their  two  sons  also,  were  conveyed  to  prison." 
O.  VUlani,  lib.  vii.  c.  cxx. 

"  In  the  following  March,  the  Pisans,  who  had  Imprisoned 
the  Count  Ugolino,  with  two  of  his  sons  and  two  of  his 
grandchildren,  the  offitpring  of  his  son  the  Count  (inelfo,  in 
a  tower  on  the  Piazza  of  the  Anziani,  caused  the  tower  to  be 
locked,  the  key  thrown  into  the  Arno,  and  all  ftKxl  to  be 
withheld  from  them.  In  a  few  days  they  died  of  hunger ; 
but  the  Count  first  with  loud  cries  declared  his  penitence, 
and  vet  neither  priest  nor  friar  was  allowed  to  shrive  him. 
All  the  five,  when  dead,  were  dragged  out  of  the  prison,  and 
meanly  interred;  and  fVom  thenceforward  the  tower  was 
called  the  tower  of  famine,  and  so  shall  over  be."  7Aid., 
c.  cxxvii.  Troya  asserts  that  Dante,  for  the  sake  of  poetical 
effect,  has  much  misrepresented  the  real  facts.     See  bis 


I 


And  after  murdei'd,  need  ia  not  I 
What  Iberefore  thou  cntut  not  have  heird,  that  b, 
How  cruel  was  the  murder,  sholt  tbini  hear, 
And  kaow  if  lie  have  wrong'd  mo.     A  Bmall  giato 
Within  that  mew,  wliicli  for  my  sake  tiie  name 
Of  famine  bean,  where  atbera  yet  must  pine 
Already  through  its  opening  several  mooiw' 
Had  BhDwn  nie,  wlien  1  iilept  the  evil  sleep 
That  from  Uie  future  tore  the  cuitaln  oS. 
Thia  one,  metliaught,  OB  moBter  of  the  sport, 
Kode  fonli  lo  chose  the  gaunt  wolf,  and  his  whi 
Unto  the  mouatain'  which  forbids  the  sight 
Of  Lncca  to  the  Piaan.     With  lean  bntcha 
Inquieilive  and  keen,  before  him  ranged 
Lanfranchi  ^Ih  SiBmandi  and  Gualandi. 
After  idiort  courae  the  father  and  the  sons 
Seem'd  tired  and  logging,  and  methoughl  I  saw 
The  sharp  tusks  gore  their  aidee.    When  I  aw( "" 
Before  the  dawn,  amid  their  sleep  1  heard 
My  sons  (for  they  were  with  me)  weep  and  nal 
For  bread.     Right  cruel  art  thou,  if  no  pang 
Thou  feel  at  thmking  what  my  heart  turatrnd  ; 
And  if  not  now,  why  dbc  (liy  tean 
Now  bad  they  waken'd  ;  and  the  hour  drew 
When  they  were  wont  to  bring  ua  food  ;  the 
Of  each  misgave  him  through  hia  dream,  ani 
Heard,  at  Itfl  outlet  underneath  loclt'd  up 
The  horrible  lower  :  whence,  uttering  not  a  ■ 
I  look'd  upon  the  visage  of  my  booh. 
I  wept  not ;  so  all  Bloae  1  felt  wittiin.* 

Veltra  Allegorico  di  DmlB.  Ed.]BM,  p.  88,9.  Tblswonld 
rend«r  a  conjccmre,  which  the  tame  writer  fil«nbDie  has- 
ardfl.  1(111  more  Improbable^  thai  the  aLoiy  might  have  been 

wards  lotmdqced  Inlo  big  noem.    Jtii.,  p.  9fl. 

Chuncer  has  briefly  UAi  UgoUno'i  atotf.     See  Monke'i 
Tale,  HoeeUoe  of  Flic. 


I; 


Ik 


1 


*S>7S.  HELL,  Civro  XJ^XDI.  215 

They  wept:  and  one,  my  little  Aiuelm,  criod, 

■  Thou  lookeiit  eo !     Fulher,  what  ails  theo  T'     Yet 

I  Bhed  no  tear,  nor  answer'd  all  tlist  day 

Hat  the  next  uighl,  tmtil  another  sun 

Came  out  upon  the  world.     When  a  faint  beam 

Had  to  our  doleful  prison  made  its  nay. 

And  in  four  countenances  I  descried 

The  image  of  my  own,  on  either  hand 

Through  agony  I  bit ;  and  they,  who  thouglil 

I  did  it  through  dcare  of  feeding,  roue 

O'  the  sudden,  end  cried, '  Fattier,  we  should  grieve 

'  Far  lew,  if  thon  wouldst  eat  of  us  :  thou  gavi»t' 

'  These  weeds  of  miserable  flesh  we  wear  ; 

'  And  do  thou  strip  them  o^'from  us  agaio.' 

Then,  not  la  make  them  sadder,  I  kejit  down 

My  spirit  m  stillness.     That  day  and  the  noit 

We  all  were  sileuL     Ah,  obdurate  earth  ! 

Why  open'dst  not  upon  us?     When  wo  came 

To  the  fourth  day,  then  Gaddo  at  my  fact 

Oulstretch'd  did  fling  him,  crying,  '  Ilast  no  help 

Flauily  OS  thou  scost  me,  saw  1  the  lliroo 
Fall  one  by  one  'twixt  the  fifth  day  and  sixlli : 
Whence  I  betook  mo,  now  growni  blind,  to  grope 
Over  Ibem  all,  and  for  three  days  aloud 
Call'd  on  them  who  were  dead.      Then,  fasting  got 
The  mastery  of  grief."     Thus  having  spoke. 
Once  more  upon  the  wretched  skull  hie  t«elh 
He  foEten'd  like  a  mastiff"s  'gainst  the  hone. 
Firm  and  unyielding.     Oh,  thou  Fiaa!  ahaiuo 
Of  all  the  people,  who  their  dwelling  make 
In  that  fair  region,'  where  the  ItaUan  voice 

aniBte  miSBTB  cuni,  s  W  le  >ppgli». 
Indlaloil  by  nucaja.  Cum.  UL. 


Del  bel  paese  la,  doTa 
aA  viptalTied  by  Dante 


Capiaia  and  Gorgana,'  and  dam  up 

ThB  raoulh  of  Arno  ;  that  each  eoul  ii 

May  penah  m  tiw  waten.    Wliat  if  fame 

Reported  that  thy  csBtles  wwu  betray'd 

By  Ugolino,  yet  da  right  hadat  thou 

To  stretch  Ilia  children  on  tlie  rack.     For  tk 

Brigata,  Uguccione,  and  the  pair 

Of  geulle  ones,  of  whom  my  soog  hath  told. 

Their  tender  years,  thou  modem  Thebes,  did  make 

Dncapable  of  guilt.     Ooward  we 

Where  others,  >karf'd  in  rugged  folds  of  ice, 

Not  on  their  feel  were  Inrii'd,  but  each  reve™ 

There,  very  weeping  BufierB  not  to  weep  f 
For,  at  iheir  eyee,  grief,  seeking  paesnge,  f  ~  '" 
Impediment,  aod  rolling  inward  tunui 
For  increase  of  shajp  aogoiah :  the  Srst  tei 
Hang  clusler'd,  and  hke  crystal  vizoCB  shol 
Under  tlie  socket  ttiimmhig  all  the  cup. 

Now  though  tlie  cold  had  from  my  face  didod 

Each  feeling,  aa  't  were  callous,  yet  me  seem'd       

Some  breath  of  wiud  I  felt.     "  Whence  cometh  tbk," 
Said  I,  "  my  Master?    Li  not  here  below 
All  vapor  quench'dr—"  Thou  shall  he  speedily," 
He    onswcr'd,  "  where   thme   eyes   shall   tell    thee 
The  cauBB  ilescrymg  of  this  airy  shower."    [v  ' 

Then  crieil  out  one,  in  the  chill  crust  who  m 
"  O  souls !  BO  cruel,  that  the  farthest  post 
[lath  been  asatgu'd  yon,  fmm  this  face  re 
The  harden'd  veil ;   thai  I  may  vent  the  __ 
Impregnate  at  my  heart,  some  httle  space, 
Ere  it  congeal  again."     1  thus  replied: 
'      ■'  It,  if  thon  wouldsl  hav 


ned.  J^H 

ids     ^H 


117^139.  HELL,  Canto  XXXIIL  217 

**  Am  I,  who  from  the  evil  garden  pluck*d 

Its  fruitage,  and  am  here  repaid,  the  date' 

More  luscious  for  my  fig." — "  Hah  V*  I  exclaim'd, 

«  Art  thou  too  dead?"—"  How  in  the  world  aloft 

It  fareth  with  my  body,"  answered  he, 

"  I  am  right  ignorant     Such  privilege 

Hath  Ptolomea,^  that  oft-times  the  soul* 

Drops  hither,  ere  by  Atropos  divorced. 

And  that  thou  mayst  wipe  out  more  willingly 

The  glazed  tear-drops*  that  o'erlay  mine  eyes. 

Know  that  the  soul,  that  moment  she  betrays, 

As  I  did,  yields  her  body  to  a  fiend 

Who  after  moves  and  governs  it  at  will. 

Till  all  its  time  be  rounded :  headlong  she 

Falls  to  this  cistern.     And  perchance  above 

Doth  yet  appear  the  body  of  a  ghost. 

Who  here  behind  me  winters.     Him  thou  know'st. 

If  thou  but  newly  art  arrived  below. 

The  years  are  many  that  have  pass'd  away. 

Since  to  this  fastness  Branca  Doria'  came." 

"  Now,"  answer'd  I, "  methinks  thou  mockest  me ; 
For  Branca  Doria  never  yet  hath  died. 
But  doth  all  natural  functions  of  a  man, 

assassins  to  rush  in  and  dispatch  those  whom  he  had  marked 
for  destmction.    Hence,  adds  Landino,  it  is  said  proverbially 
of  one  who  has  been  stabbed,  that  he  has  had  some  of  the 
friar  Alberigo's  fniit. 
Thus  Pulci,  Moi^.  Magg.,  c.  xxv. 

Le  firutte  amare  di  frate  Alberico. 

Come  Dio  rende  dataro  per  fico. 

Fazio  degli  Ubertit  DittamondOt  1.  iv.  cap.  x\x. 

3  PtolomeaJ]  This  circle  is  named  Ptolomea  from  Ptolemy 
the  son  of  Abubns,  by  whom  Simon  and  his  sons  were  mur- 
dered, at  a  great  banquet  he  had  made  for  them.  See  1  Mac- 
cabees, ch.  rvi.  Or  from  Ptolemy,  king  of  Egypt,  the  be- 
trayer of  Pompey  the  Great. 

9  The  soul.]  Chaucer  seems  to  allude  to  this  in  the  Frere*s 
Tale,  where  a  fiend  assumes  the  person  of  a  yeoman,  and 
tells  the  Sompnour  that  he  shall  one  day  come  to  a  place 
where  he  shall  understand  the  mystery  of  such  possessions, 

Bet  than  Virgile,  while  he  was  on  live. 
Or  Dant  also. 

See  Mr.  Southey*s  Tale  of  Donica. 

*  The  glazed  tear-drops.] 

sorrow's  eye,  glazed  with  blinding  tears. 

Shakspeare,  Rich.  IL,  act  ii.  sc.  2. 

*  Bratiea  Doria.]    The  family  of  Doria  was  possessed  of 
great  influence  in  Genoa.    Branca  is  said  to  have  muideted 
his  ^fber-ht-Jaw,  Michel  Zanche,  introduced  in  Canto  xxW. 


g]8  THE  VISIUN, 

EatB,  drinks,  Biid  sleeps,'  and  putlelh  n 

He  Ihus;  "  Not  ypt  unto  Iliot  uppoc  fan 
By  th'  evil  taloDs  guarded,  where  the  jMtcb 
Tenacious  bmis,  had  Miohol ." 
When  this  one  loft  a  demon  i 
In  hia  own  body,  and  of  oDe  his  kin, 
Who  with  him  trouohery  wrought.  But  now  put  fbrth 
Thy  hand,  and  ope  mine  eyes."     I  oped  th^  not 
lU  manners  were  best  courtesy  to  ^  '  ^ 

With  oTory  foulnees  Btain'd,  why  &om  the  earth    j 
Areye  Qotcanceird?  Such  an  one  of  yonra  ' 

1  witli  Komagua's  darkest  spuit'  found, 
As,  for  his  doiugt,  even  now  in  eoul 
Is  in  CocytUB  plunged,  and  yet  doth  Be 
In  body  still  alive  upon  the  earth. 

CANTO   XXXIV. 


in  >i«lii  0 


"  Tbi  bunnere'  of  Hell's  Monarch  dc 
Toward  ub  ;  therefore  look,"  bo  spake  my  goido, 
'■  If  thou  discern  him,"    Aa,  when  breathes  a  cloud 
Heavy  and  dense,  ot  when  the  shndEs  of  night 
Fell  on  our  hemisphere,  seams  view'd  from  far 
A  windmill,'  wliich  the  blast  stirB  biiskly 
Such  was  the  fabric  then  methonght  I  si 

To  shield  me  from  the  wind,  forthwhJi  I  drew    | 
Behind  my  guide : 


ID-3T. 


HELL,  Canto  XXXIV. 


sts 


Now  came  I  (and  with  fbar  I  bid  my  itraln 
R«i:onl  Ihe  marvel)  where  the  Boule  wera  all 
WlieUn'd  underneath,  IraUBparent,  as  Ihrauf^b  glua 
Pellucid  ehe  trail  Btem.     Some  prone  were  laid ; 
Olhen  Btood  opright,  thu  upon  the  nliv, 
That  an  hia  head,  a  third  with  face  to  feet 
Areh'd  Uke  a  bow.     When  to  the  point  we  oaroe. 
Whereat  my  guide  was  pleased  that  I  should  see 
The  creature  eminent  in  beauty  once, 
He  lium  bsfore  me  stepp'd  and  made  me  pause. 

"  Lo  i"  ha  eiGlaim'd,  ■'  lo  Dia  ;  and  !o  the  place. 
Where  thau  hasl  uaed  (o  arm  thy  heart  with  strength." 

Haw  frozen  and  haw  faint  I  then  became, 
Aak  ma  not,  reader !  for  I  write  it  not ; 
Since  words  would  fail  to  tell  thee  oT  my  atste. 
I  waa  not  dead  nor  ImoE.'    Think  thyself, 
Ifqaick  canceptian  work  in  thee  at  all, 
How  I  did  feel.     That  emperor,  who  sways 
The  realm  of  aorrow,  at  mid  breast  from  the  ice 
Stood  forth  ;  and  I  in  stature  am  more  like 
A  pant,"  than  the  giants  are  his  arms. 
Mark  now  how  great  that  nhote  must  be,  which  suits 
With  «uch  a  part.     If  he  were  beautiful 
Aa  he  is  hideous  now,  and  yet  did  dare 
To  Boowl  upon  his  Maker,  well  &oni  him 
May  all  our  misery  flow.     Oh  what  a  aiehl ! 
How  passing  strange  it  seem'd,  when  I  (Ud  spy 
Upon  his  head  three  faces  ■'  one  in  &aul 


<  Ji» 


oir'  h  THIS  fBiiilmi 

'  h  iHeiv  Apieimtiiilyii. 


I'Si^'fS." 

ThUeochuged 

llhinifl  Ue,  Envy  and  deipilr. 

Ssf-KT„-,: 

oupleil  wltli  the  remwk  rf  V 
r  <n«e  Das  tsBbiier.  which  he 

HELL,  Cum>  XXXIV.  821 

He  6Bpp'd  ['  th'  air,  that  Szota  him  issued  Mill 
Three  windn,  wherewith  Cocytus  to  iU  depth 
Wm  frozen.  At  abi  eyes  he  wept :  the  tean 
n  three  chins  distili'd  with  bloody  faani. 
Ut  every  month  his  teeth  a  simner  chunip'd, 
boned  OB  with  pondej-aus  engine ;  so  Ibal  three 
Wen  in  this  guise  tormented-     But  fu  more 

"         'hat  gnawing,  was  llie  foreinDsl  pang'd 
lae  DBrce  reiuiiog,  wlience  o<t-(iniea  the  back 
w  Btripp'd  of  all  its  skin.     *'  That  upper  spirit, 
Who  bath  waist  pnnifihinenl."  so  epako  my  guide, 
"  Ib  Jadas,  he  that  hUh  bis  head  within 
And  plies  the  feet  wilbauU     Of  th'  ether  two. 
Whose  heads  are  under,  from,  the  murky  jaw 
Who  hangs,  is  Brutuai'  Id  '.  bow  he  doth  writhe 
And  qieaka  nnt.     The  other,  Cnsaiua,  that  appears 
So  large  of  limb.     But  night  now  reascends ; 
And  it  is  time  for  porting.     All  is  seen." 

I  olipp'd  him  round  the  neck  ;  for  no  he  bade ; 
And  noUng  lime  and  place,  he,  when  the  wings 
Enough  were  oped,  caught  fast  the  shaggy  sidea. 
And  down  from  pile  to  pile  deaoending  stepp'd 


Larne  wtag9  on  Um  dLd  etow 
Fntmite  like  Itie  wlngi  o(  mnder  mica,  tu. 


ate  Bmnu  fi«D  iha  mwonhy  Inl  which  Li  bera  lEilpxid 
him.  Ha  malnlaliu,  that  by  Bmtiu  and  Caului  nn  not 
loeaDt  Uia  IndlvlduaU  known  by  Ibuve  uajnES.  Iiul  any  whb> 
pal  a  tawftil  monuch  (o  ilealb.  Vel  ir  CEsar  was  ouch.  Ihe 
cotutiraian  might  be  renrded  na  dwaerving  o(  their  Jnctfo- 

■^Tlt  bEcnoIng  doa  who  felt  thai  be  11to4  \n  a  (rex  smu-, 
.,  -J  -.  ^.. 1 — 1  „  ^n^j  Soma  fbue  palrlo.  e  do"  qimli  rei- 


thf]  pfttrioc's  character  In  other  -rmpecu  noald  i 
sfpavatod  hu  guilt  la  that  parttcalar.  "Teboa 
juititiST  nutta  ccplEBlhw  eflt  guiun  coram,  qui  cm 
felLODI  Id  aoDuL  at  vlrt  boni  esHi  vldeantur."  C 
IUl  L  eap.  m. 


333  THE  VISION. 

Between  the  tbick  fell  and  the  jugged  ice. 

Soon  OS  he  reacL'd  the  paint,  wherent  the  thl^X 
Upea  the  ewelliag  of  tlic  iiaunclies  taiaa. 
My  lender  (here,  with  pain  and  Wruggling  hard, 
Turn'd  round  hia  head  where  his  fe«t  Blood  betbie, . 
And  grappled  at  tlie  fell  as  one  who  laauota ; 
That  into  hell  melhengbt  we  tum'd  again- 

"  Expect  that  by  Buch  stain  as  ihese,"  thua  apaks  'I 
The  teacher,  panting  tike  a  mail  forespent, 
"  We  miiat  depart  from  evil  no  extreme ;" 
Then  b(  a  rocky  opening  iaaiied  forth, 
And  placed  me  on  the  brink  la  sit,  next  joln'd 
With  waiy  step  my  side.    I  laised  mine  eyes. 
Believing  thai  I  Lucifer  sliould  see 
Where  he  was  lately  left,  but  saw  him  now 
With  legs  held  upward.    Let  Ibe  grosser  eort, 
Who  see  not  what  ttio  point  was  I  had  pasa'd. 
Bethink  lliem  if  sore  (oil  oppress'd  me  then. 

"  Arise,"  my  martor  nried,  "  upon  Ihy  feet 
The  way  is  long,  and  much  ancouth  the  road ; 
And  now  within  one  boui  and  half  of  noon' 
The  gun  returns."    It  was  no  palace-hall 
Lofty  and  luminous  wherein  we  stood. 
But  natural  dungeon  where  ill-footing  was 
And  scant  supply  of  light     "  Ero  from  the  abym 
I  HCparate,"  thus  whan  risen  I  began : 
'^  Af y  guide  i  TOuebs^e  few  words  to  set  me  fr 
From  error's  thialdoo^.     Where  is  now  the  ice 
How  standcth  he  in  posture  thus  revecsedT 
And  how  from  evo  to  mom  in  apace  so  brief 
Hath  the  sua  made  hJa  transit?"     He  m  few 
Thus  answering  spake :  "  Thou  dsemeat  thou  art  still 
On  the  other  side  the  centre,  where  I  grosp'd 
The  abhorred  worm  Lbst  boreth  throng  the  world. 
ThoD  wast  on  (ho  oilier  ndo,  so  long  as  I 
Descended  ;  when  I  tum'd,  Ihou  didst  o'erpass 
That  point,^  to  which  Irom  every  part  is  dragged 
All  heavy  substance.     Thou  art  now  arrived 
Under  (he  hemisphere  opposed  to  that, 


neet.IfaB  ere  of  Newton. 
Ill  ibouEht  Id  coneelve  the 
HBjiUllklllBgorsBapple. 


I 


C£±l 


im-VSBL  HELL,  Caitto  XXXIY.  333 

Which  the  great  continent  doth  ovenpread, 

And  midemeath  whose  canopy  expired 

The  Man  that  was  bom  sinless,  and  so  lived. 

Thy  feet  are  planted  on  the  smallest  sphere. 

Whose  other  aspect  is  Judecca.    Mom 

Here  rises,  when  there  evening  sets :  and  he. 

Whose  shf^gy  pile  we  scaled,  yet  standeth  fix*d. 

As  at  the  mst     On  this  part  he  fell  down 

From  heaven ;  and  th'  earth,  here  prominent  before, 

Through  fear  of  him  did  veil  her  with  the  sea. 

And  to  our  hemisphere  retired.     Perchance, 

To  shun  him,  was  the  vacant  space  left  here. 

By  what  of  firm  land  on  this  side  appears,^ 

That  sprang  aloof."     There  is  a  place  beneath. 

From  Belzebub  as  distant,  as  extends 

The  vaulted  tomb  f  discovered  not  by  sight. 

But  by  the  sound  of  brooklet,  that  descends 

This  way  along  the  hollow  of  a  rock, 

Which,  as  it  winds  with  no  precipitous  course, 

The  wave  hath  eaten.     By  that  hidden  way 

My  guide  and  I  did  enter,  to  return 

To  the  fair  world :  and  heedless  of  repose 

We  climb'd,  he  first,  I  following  his  steps, 

Till  on  our  view  the  beautiful  lights  of  heaven 

Dawn*d  throng  a  circular  opening  in  the  cave : 

Thence  issuing  we  again  beheld  the  stars. 

1  By  what  of  firm  land  on  this  side  appears.}  The  monn- 
tain  of  Purgatory. 

3  The  vaulted  Umb.]  "  La  tomba.'*  This  word  is  used  to 
express  the  whole  depth  of  the  infernal  region. 


\ 


THE  VISION  OF  DANTE. 


PURGATORY. 

CANTO  r. 

ARtiUMENT. 

O'eb  better  waTea'  to  speed  her  rapid  coniHB 
The  ligbt  bark  of  my  genius  lifts  the  sail, 
Well  pleaaod  to  leave  Bn  cruel  sea  behiud  ; 
And  of  that  second  region  will  I  sing, 
In  which  the  human  apirit  from  sinful  blot 
Is  purged,  and  for  ascent  to  Heaven  prepareB. 

Ilers,  O  ye  liHlloVd  Nine  1  for  in  your  train 
I  follow,  here  the  deaden'd  strain  revive ; 
Nor  let  Calliope  refuse  (a  sound 
A  Bomewhat  higher  song,  of  that  loud  lane 


i    SnUonil.t 


lib.  ii.  c. 


236  THE  VISION. 

Which  whtm  the  wretched  birds  of  chattering  a< 

Had  heard,  they  of  forgivcDeBB  lost  all  hope. 

Sweet  hue  of  eostem  sapphire,  that  waa  spread 
O'er  the  eerene  aepect  of  the  pure  air, 
High  up  aa  the  first  circle,'  to  mine  eyes 
Unwonted  joy  renew'd,  soon  ss  I  'scaped 
Forth  from  the  atoioephere  of  deadiy  giooni, 
Thai  had  mine  eyes  and  bosom  fill'd  with  grieT. 
The  radiant  planet,"  that  lo  lore  inyilea, 
Made  all  the  orient  laueh,*  and  vetl'd  beneath 
The  Piscen'  light,'  that  m  kia  escort  catne. 

To  the  ri^it  hand  I  tum'd,  and  tii'd  my  mind 
On  the  other  pole  attentive,  where  I  saw 
Four  staiB"  ne'er  sesD  before  save  by  the  ken 
Of  our  first  parBiitH,^     Hearen  of  their  raja 


.gnoj^ 

>d 

1 


ctBldriv  """■I    For  (he 

thfaleoflhedaiigliliin 

Met,  lib.  V.  Ikb.  5. 

1   Tk,fir, 

rirrfi]    Tiilher,  a.  tom 

nwatslore  Bi 

poMlble)  wiU  have  Ic,  Ih 

blgbeitdivta  ofiha 

1  P/m«.] 

Venn.. 

lAcorinulaifh.]  Henco  Chancer,  Kolght'i  Tata: 

UHsome 

q«J.tB«rt"orimil," 

•  IKt  Pis 

a'ligU.]    Tbo  conalellH 

lion  of  the  n>h  veUed 

S'uj"Swn' 

ul  IhAl  pole  aeconUat 
be  ad£."lba  ctc^ 

IhlniH^Bi 

n^.'p.'^l?e» 

lecond  -"^  °"  "^  *J 

^  of  Danle  Utue  dl 
LDi  mBa  mbae  ;"  yai  ii  appean  probable,  thai  siwer 

Bimllar  manner.     Bal  whatever  may  be  tboa(lit 
.  It  i^naln  Ihal  Ibe  fiiar  nan  an  here  innboUnl 


ttoni  a  elube  canElrucud  tav  in  Anbiao  In  Egypt,  with  tbe 
dais  of  the  year  WS  of  the  Hexlra.  corresponiUne  u>  199S 

ed.    Bee  hli  Hlilolre  da  Danle,  cb.  luL  and  il.  8°.  Par. 


PURGATORY,  Cum  1. 


327 


SeBm'd  jofouB.    O  thou  Dorthern  ute  '.  bereft 
Indei'd,  and  widow'd,  nnce  of  theses  deprived. 

Aa  Crom  thia  eiew  I  had  deaiated,  straigbt 
Turning  a  little  lowarda  tlie  othej  pole. 
Then  Irom  wfaeoce  now  tbe  woia'  had  duappeai'di 
I  saw  tui  old  man'  Btandiug  by  my  aida 
Aloae,  su  worthy  of  revereoce  in  Ilia  look, 
That  neVr  bam  aon  la  falhet  more  wiu  owed. 
Low  down  his  beard,  and  mix'd  with  hoarr  white 
DoBCeiided,  like  bia  locks,  which,  parting,  fell 
ITpon  his  breaat  ia  doable  fold.     The  bewna 
Of  those  four  lumuiaiies  oo  bis  face 
So  brightly  thoiie,  and  with  such  radiance  clou 
Deok'd  it,  that  1  beheld  him  oa  the  sun. 

"  Say  who  are  ye,  that  atenuning  the  blind  stream, 
Forth  from  lbs  eternal  prison ■houaa  have  fled  7" 
Ho  spoke  and  moTed  tliose  venerable  plume*.' 
"  Who  hath  conducted,  or  with  lantern  sure 
Lights  you  emerging  from  the  depth  of  night. 
That  makes  tbo  infeilial  valley  ever  black  f 
Are  the  firm  atatutee  of  tlie  dread  abyss 
Broken,  or  m  bigb  heaven  new  laws  ordain'd. 
That  thus,  condemn'd,  ye  to  my  caves  approach  V 

My  goide,  then  laying  hold  on  me,  by  worda 
'     ■  -  '^       -'"la  given  with  hand  and  head, 


hlonair  decLaied  tils  ooliilon   of  llie   illaslrlaus   BmuiiD. 

I        to  Mlow  God  than  Calol    Corliiinly  none."     And  aKSla, 
'        p.  SIS :  "  Nel  BOine  dl  cui."  ^c.    "  bi  wboae  nsmo,  whil- 


328  TIIE  VISION.  Sl-I 

Made  mf  bent  konBB  aud  eye  flabmffieive  pi 
Duo  reveioiice  ;  tbon  thus  to  bim  replied: 

'•  Not  of  myself  I  come  ;  a  Dame  from  heaven*) 
Descending,  liim  besonght  mo  in  my  chsrge 
To  bring.     But  sin™  Ihy  wiU  implies,  tbal  ma 
Our  Ime  condition  I  unfold  at  large, 
Mine  is  not  to  deny  lliee  tby  request. 
This  mortal  ne'er  liath  seen  tbo  farthest  gloom 
But  erring  by  hia  folly  had  approach'd 
Bo  near,  that  little  space  was  left  to  turn. 
Then,  as  before  I  told,  I  was  diapateh'd 
To  work  bia  rescue ;  and  no  way  remaia'd 
Save  this  which  I  have  la'en.     i  have  i^lay'd 
Before  him  all  the  regions  of  the  bad  ; 
And  purpose  now  tbofie  spirits  to  display, 

Bow  I  have  broaght  him  would  be  long  to  say. 
From  high  descends  the  virtue,  by  whoso  ud 
I  to  thy  sight  and  hearing  him  have  led. 
Now  may  our  coming  please  thee.  In  the  se 
Of  liberty  he  joumeya :  that  how  dear. 
They  know  who  for  her  sake  have  life  refbaed. 
Than  knowest,  to  whom  death  for  her  was  sweet 
In  UticQ,  wh«ro  thou  didst  leave  thoee  weeda. 
That  in  the  lost  great  day  will  ahme  ea  bright 
"  ■■  ledicb 


He  breathes, 
Abidhig  in  th 
Of  thy  chaste 

md 

M 

1  of  Minos  am 
uclo,  where  the 
arcia*  beam,  wh 

not  bODiid,' 
D°^1ll  m  look 

a  ThifttTtka 
8f,Ario.lo,O.F 

el 

™.]    L'nliii 
aio  nuiy,  . 

^1^ 

^SBeHBl 

ILM. 

jUeltno  BoBCoe  pn 


Mania.  Z 

ivery  tblpg,  ti  liablL  which  appf 


PURGATORY,  Cantu  I. 
Prays  tLee.  O  hallow'il  apirit !  to  owt 
Then  by  her  iuve  wb  implore  UiL-e,  \t 
Througli  thy  eeveu  regiooB  ;'  for  whi 
1  for  Uxj  fator  will  to  hor  return, 
If  mentiau  there  below  thou  not  disdo 

He  then  to  ,         . 

That  a.11  she  nsk'd  me  1  was  faiu  to  grant. 
Now  that  beyond  the  accuned  Etreiim  she  dwelU, 
She  may  no  longer  move  me,  by  that  law,' 
Which  was  oidoin'd  me,  ivhea  I  issued  thence. 
Not  8o,  if  Dame  from  heaven,  aa  thou  sayit. 
Mores  and  dinicts  thee  ;  then  na  flaltery  needs. 
Enough  foi  tne  Ihal  in  her  name  thou  ask. 
Go  therefore  now  ;  and  with  a  slender  reod' 
See  that  Ihou  duly  gird  him,  and  hie  face 
Lave,  till  all  Hordid  stain  (hen  wipe  from  thoncs. 
For  not  with  eye,  by  any  cloud  obaeurcd, 
Would  it  be  eeemly  before  him  to  come, 
Who  stands  the  foremost  minister  in  heaven. 
This  islet  all  around,  there  far  beneath. 
Where  the  wave  beats  it,  on  the  oozy  bed 
Produces  store  of  reeds.     No  other  plant, 
Cover'd  with  leaves,  or  haiden'd  in  its  stalk, 
There  lives,  not  bending  to  the  water's  sway. 
After,  tbie  way  return  not ;  but  the  suu 
Will  sbow  you,  that  now  rises,  where  to  take' 

He  disappeor'd  ;  and  I  myself  upraised 

virgin,  and  in  IImI  Hale  aha  signifies  chlldhnod;  then  at 

ihen  bafe  children,  by  wbum  ore  TdHoaenled  the  vl 
WQ  taaVB  Hiid  beJDiii;  to  Ifast  age."    Daale  woold  10 


Speecl 
Towal 


THE  VISION. 

ihlsH.  and  to  my  guide  retiring  okaw, 

I'd  TDlnc  eyes.    He  thus  began  i 
"  My  eaa  !  observant  Ihou  my  atepe  pumie. 
We  muHt  retreat  (a  rearwurd  ;  for  that  way 
The  chunpun  to  its  low  extreme  declinea." 

The  dawn  had  chased  the  matin  hour  of  juimo^ 
Which  fled  before  it,  so  that  from  afar 
I  Bpied  the  tromblii^  of  the  ocean  Btrean 

We  Lravoised  the  deserted  plain,  as  ooi 
Wlio,  wnnder'd  from  bis  track,  tliinkE  every  Bt«p 
Trodden  in  vain  till  he  regain  the  path. 

When  wo  had  come,  where  yet  the  tender  deil 
Strove  with  the  sun,  and  in  a  place  where  fiBsh  1 
The  wind  breathed  o'er  it,  while  it  riowly  dried ; ' 


ended  01 


.teryg! 


My  moeler  placed,  in  graceful  act  and  kind. 
Whence  1,  of  hii  intent  before  apprized, 
Stretch'd  out  to  bun  my  checks  sufliised  with  U 
There  lo  my  visage  he  anew  resloreii 
That  hue  which  the  dnn  ahndcs  of  hell  conceal'dl 
Then  an  the  solitary  dioro  arrived, 

Man  that  could  after  meoauro  hack  his  couiw 
He  girt  me  in  such  maimer  as  had  pleased 
Him  who  uiatructed  ;  and  U  slrange  to  tell ! 
As  he  selected  every  humble  plant. 
Wherever  one  was  phick'd,  ouolber'  there 

CANTO    IL 
ARGUMEST. 


uvor  Uw  waves  with  eplrlu  Ln  PnraaUuy,  HiDong  whom, 
when  Lhe  paseen^QrA  have  laoiled,  Dante  recneuLui  Ua 


PURGATORY,  C*kto  D.  231 

Now  bad  the  nm'  to  that  horizon  reached, 
That  coveiB,  with  the  moel  eiiUlL'cl  point 
Of  its  meridian  circle,  SaJem^B  walls  ; 
Aod  nigbti  that  opposite  to  him  ber  orb 
Rounds,  from  the  stream  of  Ganges  isaDed  forth, 
Hoiding  the  scale!,*  that  from  her  hands  ore  dropp'd 
When  xhe  reigns  l^hest :'  so  Ibat  nrhrm  I  was, 
Aurora's  white  and  Yenneil-tinctiired  chrek 
To  orange  tom'd'  as  aba  in  nge  Lucraased. 

Meanwhile  we  lingered  by  llie  water's  brink, 
Uke  men,'  who,  mustng  on  their  road,  iu  tbougbt 
Jnuniey,  whila  motionlesa  lUe  body  regis. 
Whcu  lo !  as,  near  upon  the  houT  of  dawn, 
Througb  the  thick  vapotn'  Man  with  fiery  beam 
Glares  down  in  west,  over  the  aafoa  floor  ; 
Su  seem'd,  what  once  again  1  bope  to  view, 
A  light,  m  swiftly  coming  throu^  (he  sea. 
No  winged  course  might  equal  ils  carvcr- 
Froiu  which  when  for  a  space  1  liad  withdrawn 
Mine  eyes,  to  moke  inquiry  of  my  guide. 
Again  i  looked,  and  saw  it  grown  in  Bi2e 
Aiid  brighlnesa  !  then  on  either  aide  appear'd 
^ametbing,  but  what  I  knew  nol,  of  bright  hue. 
And  by  degrees  from  Dudomcatb  It  came 
AncHher.     My  preceptor  silent  yet 

1  JfoK  ksd  U<  inn,]    Denle  was  ni»r  anliiindsl  u  Jemia- 


'■wben  Ihe  Dlghls  tagin  u  Incrsue,  Ihsili,  tlla  Uie  lum- 
"  Ta  orange  Hi™'(J.l  "L'anrani  ^4  di  sormlglla  unnlo- 
l>ecam..iriU..s(lliebegi]iii\n|i,    Sco  noui  lo  Bell,  uUI,  101. 

BoFmil; 

nuiB         corpo  pom,  ™^ra™.^^  ^^  ^ 

•  TVnitf*  Ou  thick  vapnTE,]  So  in  Ibe  Canvilo,  p.  7S. 
'^Bho  para,  fcc^"  "  He  fuiuH)  nppean  incire  or  iflsa  Lnflnmed 
wllb  heat,  according  to  ibe  tiJcKDeia  ot  nrlly  of  the  vapun 


333 


TQE  VISION, 


Stood,  while  the  liri^htneeH,  that  we  Rnt  dneer 
Opcn'd  the  fona  af  wings  :  then  vbma  be  kne* 
ThQ  pilot,  cried  aloud,  "  Donu,  dawn  ;  bend  lo 
Th;  knees  ;  behold  God'a  ungel :  fold  thy  hantta  si 
Now  ehalt  than  sec  trae  mhUBten  iiideMJ. 
1.0  '.  how  all  human  means  he  sets  at  naught ; 
So  that  nor  oar  he  ncedii,  nor  other  Bail 
Except  hb  wings,'  between  such  distant  shores. 
Lo!  how  straight  up  to  heaien  he  holds  tb' 
Winnowing  the  aii^  -with  those  eternal  plu: 

t  l^e  mortal  hain  foil  off  or  change." 


mine  bent  dmrn. 


Asm 
Appear'd  the  bird  of  God, 
Endure  his  splendor  near 
He  drove  oilhore  in  a  small  barli  so  swift 
And  light,  that  in  its  coune  no  ware  it  drank. 
The  heavenly  steerumm  at  tho  prow  waa  seen. 
Visibly  written  Blessed  in  his  looks. 
Withm,  a  hundred  spiritB  and  more  there  sst. 

"  In  Eiilu'  Israel  do  Egyplo," 
All  with  one  voice  together  sang,  with  what 
In  the  remainder  of  that  hymn  is  writ. 
Then  soon  as  with  the  aga  of  holy  cross 
He  bless'd  them,  they  at  once  leap'd  oat  on  land  t ' 
He,  swiftly  as  he  caine,  retum'd.     The  crew, 
There  left,  appear'd  astounded  with  the  place 
Gazing  around,  as  one  who  sees  new  sights. 

From  every  side  tiie  sun  darted  his  beams. 
And  with  liis  arrowy  radiance*  from  mid  heai 

'  Exctrl  hia  lein^i.]    Hence  Millon : 


—  frnm  before  hor  v 


.  reiraided  bv  «mo  c 
la  tolrayed  dy  the  In 


PIIRGATOKY,  Cut™  n.  333 

Had  chiuwl  the  CBpricarn,  when  that  Bttadge  tribe, 
Lifting  Iheir  eyea  toward  us :  "If  yn  know. 
Declare  what  path  will  lead  us  to  the  mniuiL" 

1  Virgil  anBwer'd  ;    "  Ye  supposB,  perchancu, 
111  acquainted  with  (his  plaice ;  hut  here, 
B  yoiireelveH,  are  Btranpjert     Not  long  ent 
une,  before  you  but  a  Utile  space, 
^  other  road  so  rough  mid  ho^rd,  that  now 

ill  Hem  lo  ua  OH  play."     The  ipirilfc 
Who  from  my  breathing  had  perceived  I  liTod, 
Grew  pale  with  wonder.     Ai  the  multitude 
Floak  round  a  herald  sent  with  olive  branch, 
To  hear  what  news  ho  brings,  and  in  their  hute 
Tread  one  another  down  ;  e'ea  so  al  sight 
Of  me  those  happy  spirits  were  fix'd,  each  one 
Fotgetful  of  its  errand  to  depart 
Where,  cleansed  tram  am,  il  might  bs  made  all  bai 

Then  one  I  saw  darting  before  Ihe  re« 
With  Buoh  fond  ardor  lo  erabmcB  nip,  1 
To  do  the  like  was  moved.     O  shadows  rain '. 
Bicept  in  outward  semblance  :  thrice  my  honda' 
I  closp'd  behind  it,  tliey  as  oft  retum'd 
Empty  iulo  my  breast  again.      Surprise 
I  need  must  think  waa  painted  in  my  looks. 
For  that  the  shadow  smiled  and  backward  drew. 
To  follow  it  I  hasten 'd,  but  witli  voice 
Of  sweetness  it  enjoiii'd  nae  to  desiet 
Then  who  it  was  I  kuew,  and  pray'd  of  It, 
To  talk  with  me  it  would  a  little  pause. 
It  answer'd :  "  Thee  as  in  my  mortal  frame 
I  toved,  so  loosed  from  It  I  love  lliee  alill, 
And  therefore  pause;  but  why  walkesl  thou  hero?" 


1 


anus  BlfiuEI  Smafo : 


Itehlftil  iBok,  Iho  Oaprlrcldof  BoOUQnfGem,  (Oiwie.  M 
ma.  V.  li.  p.  an.)  of  which  there  l>  nn  Engllih  Inntl 
anHUttd  "Tha  Fearf^lL  Fandlea  of  Ihe  Flnrenase  Cu 
WitOsn  li  T»eane.  by  Jolui  BapHsI  Gelll.  one  of  the 


S34  THE  VBIOS.  87- 

^'Nit  without  purpose  once  more  to  retunk, 
Thou  find'Bt  rae,  my  CaBflla,'  where  I  am," 
Journeying  tills  way,' ^  I  fluid :  ^' but  how  of  thee 
Hath  so  much   time  been  iostT"     He  answer'd 

"  No  outrage  hath  been  done  to  mo,  if  he,' 
Who  when  and  wliom  lis  chooses  takes,  hath  oft 
Dented  me  pussage  here  ;  since  of  just  will 
HiB  will  he  makes.     These  three   raontha  past*  in- 
He,  whoau  clioae  to  enter,  with  free  leave  [deed, 

Hatli  taken  ;  whence  I  wandering  by  the  shore" 
Where  Tiber's  wave  grows  salt,  of  lum  gwn'd  kind 
Admittance,  at  that  river's  mouth,  toward  which 
His  wingt  are  pointed ;  for  there  always  throng 
All  auch  as  not  lo  Acheron  descend."  ( 

Then  I ;  "If  new  law  taketh  not  from  thee 
Memory  or  custom  of  love-tuned  song, 


5 


Etc 

jiiclla.\    A  PloreBanB,  eelebralefi  for  his  akUl  tn 
n  1tb<ae  company,"  enyi   Landlna,   "ItaDte  oAeia 
hU  apirla.  weuled  by  severer  sludiei."    See  Dr. 
HWory  uf  MiBlc  vol.  11.  cap.  Iv.  p.  3613.    HilUa 
allorton  lo  .hi,  meeting  in  hL,  «nne.  lo  Senir 

Is  ihsll  Bl>«  Ikme  leavs  lo  lei  ibee  blEher 
nn  h3>  Caiella,  wboDi  he  nooed  to  glng, 
in  Ihe  milder  ibades  of  Purgalory. 

wilh  the  HldobealLBB  and  Aldlne  edillDin,  and  many  USK, 
ll  BliralilBii  "  Why  art  th«u  deprived  af  so  dsilnUo  a  resloat 
BSIhuturFeriauuyl  wbf  dosi  IhoD  not  hssun  to  he  dean  ' 
Dflbysknflt"    If  with  tbe  Academicloni  deJla  CnuicH, 

whlcti  li  not  deiSlnla  of  anlhorilylo  support  it,  and  wtUoh 
has  the  advantBge  ovei'  llie  aihet,  as   ft   mBrhi    Dnnlc'i 

Inted  II.  "Why  hsjt  Ition  lost  so  mnch  time 
hero  1"    Loiubardl,  wbo  Ls  for  tbe  forrner  reedls 

poae  him  to  have  been  d&ad  far  lonie  yean,  but  ni 

"  «f .')    The  conducHne  aogel. 

•  Thac  IJirre  mmtlu  past.]  Since  the  tbno  of 
daring  which  nil  apiriti  not  condeiniiGd  In  elar 
nienl  were  anpposcd  to  pan  ovor  lo  Patgators  si  s 


1 
I 


in:t-i9!A  PTTRnATnuv  n»>.,n^  tt  /*«- 


J 

I 


K 


1(»-126.  PURGATORY,  Canto  II.  335 

That  whilom  all  my  cares  had  power  to  *8uago ; 
Please  thee  therewith  a  little  to  console 
My  spirit,  that  encumber'd  with  its  frame, 
Travelling  so  far,  of  pain  is  overcome." 

"  Love,  that  discourses  in  my  thoughts,"*  he  then 
Began  in  such  soft  accents,  that  within 
The  sweetness  tlirills  me  yet     My  gentle  guide, 
And  all  who  came  with  him,  so  well  were  pleased, 
That  seem'd  naught  else  might  in   their  thoughts 
have  room. 

Fast  fix'd  in  mute  attention  to  his  notes 
We  stood,  when  lo !  that  old  man  venerable 
Exclaiming,  "  How  is  this,  ye  tardy  spirits  ? 
What  negligence  detains  you  loitering  here  ? 
Run  to  the  mountain  to  cast  off  those  scales. 
That  from  your  eyes  the  sight  of  God  conceal." 

As  a  wild  flock  of  jMgeons,  to  their  food 
Collected,  blade  or  tares,  without  their  pride 
Accustom'd,  and  in  still  and  quiet  sort. 
If  aught  alarm  them,  suddenly  desert 
Their  meal,  assail'd  by  more  important  care ; 
So  I  that  new-come  troop  beheld,  the  song 
Deserting,  hasten  to  the  mountain's  side, 
As  one'  who  goes,  yet,  where  he  tends,  knows  not 

Nor  with  less  hurried  step  did  we  depart 

CANTO    III. 

ARGUMENT. 

fDnr  Poet,  perceiving  no  shadow  except  that  cast  by  his  own 
body,  is  fearfVil  that  Virgil  has  deserted  him;  but  he  is 
freed  from  that  error,  and  both  arrive  together  at  the 
foot  of  the  mountain :  on  finding  it  too  steep  to  climb, 
they  inquire  the  way  from  a  troop  of  spirits  that  are 
coming  towards  them,  and  are  by  them  shown  which  is 
the  easiest  ascent.  Manfredi,  king  of  Naples,  who  is 
one  of  these  spirits,  bids  Dante  inform  his  daughter 
Costanza,  queen  of  Aragon,  of  the  manner  in  which  ho 
had  died. 

Them  sudden  flight  had  scatter'd  o'er  the  plain, 
Tum'd  towards  the  mountain,  whither  reason's  voice 

^ "  LiOve^  that  discourses  in  my  thoughts^] 

"  Amor  cho  nolia  mcnte  mi  ragiona." 

_  The  first  verse  of  a  canzone  in  the  Convito  of  Dante,  which 
■^e  again  cites  in  his  treatise  de  Vulg.  Eloq.,  lib.  ii.  cap.  6. 
^  As  one.}    Ck}m*  uom,  che  va,  nd  sa  dove  riesca. 
^oFrezzi: 

Ck)mo  chi  va,  ni  sa  dove  camina. 

n  Quadrir^  Ub.V.  ca^.^ 


336 


THE  VISION. 


Drives  ub:  I,  to  my  fulhful  compauy 
AdherinB.  left  it  not.     For  how,  of  him 
tkprived,  might  I  have  Bpod?  or  who,  1 
Would  o'er  the  mounlainouB  tract  havB  led  my  it 

He,  wHh  the  bitter  pnng  of  self. 

Seem'd  smitten.     O  cloar  consc 
How  dnth  a  little  failing  wound 

Soou  BS  his  feel  desiatod  (slnckening  pace) 
From  haste,  (hat  mors  all  decmcy  of  act,' 
My  mind,  (hot  in  itself  before  was  wrapt, 
Its  thought  expanded,  as  with  joy  restored  j 
And  full  against  the  steep  ascent  I  set 
My  foee,  where  higheat'  to  heaven  its  top  o'eri 

The  SDH,  that  flared  behind,  with  ruddy  beam  j 
Before  my  fonn  was  broken  ;  for  in  ms 
His  raya  leeiBtance  met.     1  tum'd  aaids 
With  fear  of  hemg  loft,  when  I  beheld 
Only  before  myself  the  groimd  obscured. 


When 


Beapake  mo  kindly  :  "  Why  disLmatest  thou  ? 
Bolievest  not  I  aro  with  thee,  thy  enre  guide  T 
It  now  ia  evening  there,  where  buried  lies 
The  body  hi  which  I  cast  a  sliade,  removed 
To  Naples*  from  Bruudusium'n  wall.    Nor  tbav  4 
Marvel,  if  before  mo  no  ahndow  fnll, 
More  than  that  in  the  akyay  element 
One  ray  obatmcta  not  other.     To  endure 
Torments  of  heat  and  cold  eitreme,  like  framea 

1  aim  inih  a  ualifmilitr  wnxni  tiu  wn.] 
Cb'  era  >!  cor  picclnl  Ailln  aninio  uono. 

T^ie.  G.  L^  Mils  I.  il.  SS. 
•  Hatlr.  IMI  mar*  aU  iutnct  Bf  not]    Aililolle,  ta  his 
Phyglof..  c  UL,  rechi>n.s  it  Dman^  [be  ilmiJgSi  a«piri,  "  lbs 

-qnickln  Ub  motloBS."    Compare  Suphoclos,  Blocini.818. 

And  withmoro  speed  thap  dofxncyaUaw  '^  " 

3  n^Arrt  hiffhMLi    Lombardi  propoaoi.  wll 

Che  'nveno  'I  ciei  plA  alio  el  dlslagu 

dello  acqoB  del  niM»."    The  conjocmie  l>  el  Insl 

h1«  Propoilii. 

lili  body  leisld^la  have  heen  remnved  lo  Napl'ai." 


PL'RGATORY,  Canto  ID.  23' 

That  virtue  hiith  disposed,  which,  liow  it  woika, 
WillB  not  1o  UH  should  bo  re>rea.l'd.     Insane, 
Who  hopsB  our  reason  may  that  space  eiptore, 

~" iB  persons  in  one  substanCB  itiut. 

It  not  the  wherefuro,  race  of  buman  kind; 
e  haTB  >wen  the  wholv.  no  need  had  been 
10  bring  fortli.     Moreover,  yo 

Buoh  meii  desiriiig  rruiiLeasly  ;' 

To  whOBB  desires,  lepoee  would  have  ttten  given. 

That  now  but  serve  Ihem  for  eterDal  grief. 

1  Bpsak  of  Plato,  aud  tho  Slagirite, 

And  othera  many  more."     And  than  he  bent 

Downwards  hia  roiebead,  Eind  in  troubled  mood' 

Broke  offhk  speech.     Meanwhile  wo  had  arrived 

Far  aa  the  mountahi's  foot,  a    '   ' 

Found  of  so  steep  ascent,  th< 

To  climb  it  hod  beea  vain,      i  as  mosi  remwe. 

Moat  wild,  untrodden  path,  in  all  the  tract 

Twixt  Lorico  and  Turbia,'  woro  to  thia 

A  ladder  easy  and  open  of  aecoaa.  [dines  1" 

"  Who  knows  on  which  hand  now  the  sleep  de- 
Mj  master  said,  and  paused  ;  "  so  that  he  may 
Ascend,  who  journeyH  wilhoat  aid  of  wing  T' 
And  while,  with  looks  directed  to  the  groiuid, 
The  meaning  of  tho  pathway*  he  ex]rioredi 
And  I  gazed  upward  rOund  tbc  stony  height ; 
On  the  left  hand  appear'd  to  us  a  troop 
Of  ^rits,  tliat  toward  us  raovod  their  steps ; 
Yet  mo^g  seem'd  not,  they  so  slow  approach'd. 

I  thou  my  guide  addresa'd :  "Upraise  thine  eyes: 

•  JJuMKf  JVkilluily.l    Bes  Hell.  Canln  Lv.  30. 

•  A  tmabled  KUHJ.}     BeuuH!   he  biinvlf  (VIt^I)  nu 

htlei  on  IbB  we>l.  A  Tory  ImenBons  wilier  hu  hnil  ocm- 
ilon,  tm  E  diflerenl  pnipiHa,  to  nientlim  cue  v[  Hieso  placei  as 
iwmiTlnlitr  seclitdea  bylfn  iqnontBiiinai  BituatLun-    "Oano 


1 


THE  VISION. 


1 


"Letiu 

(Wlien  we  . 
Aa  al  a  thrc 
When  nU  di 


;eiiU  thilher:  they  bi 


I  thou  inaVBt  obtaiu 
rat  it  not"  [plied: 

d  with  free  Bjieecb  ro- 


le  (hDU 


Blspa,' 


ackward  oi 


«toak.< 


mossy  crogv 
(Ji  tiie  steep  DunK,  and  lirnily  stood  unmOTed, 
As  one,  who  walks  in  doubt,  might  stand  t( 

"  O  epitils  perfect !  O  already  cliospn '." 
Virgil  to  them  began :  "  by  that  bleit  peacB, 
Wbich  as  1  deem,  is  Tor  yaii  all  prepared, 
Instruct  Ds  where  the  mountain  low  declines. 
So  that  attempt  Co  mount  it  be  not  vain. 
For  who  knows  moot,  him  loss  of  time  most  grievei 

As  sheep,*  that  step  from  forth  their  fold,  t^  oni 
Or  pairs,  or  three  at  once  ;  meittiwhile  the  nst 
Stand  fearfully,  bendmg  the  eye  and  nose 
To  ^DUnd,  and  what  the  foremost  doea,  that  do 
The  utheis,  gathering  round  her  if  sbs  mope. 
Simple  and  quiet,  n.or  the  oause  diacem ; 
So  saw  1  mocing  la  advance  the  first,  I 

—       -  ■       -  -.ehead,       ■* 


Of  modest  m 


<ful  in 


ir  gait. 


When  they  before  lue  hud  beheld  the  light 
From  my  right  side  fall  breken  on  the  ground. 
So  that  the  shadow  reached  the  cave  ;  they  stop 
And  somewhat  back  retired  :  the  same  did  all 

"  UnaskM  of  yon,  yet  freely  1  confea 
Thia  is  a  human  body  which  ye  see. 
That  the  sun's  light  is  broken  on  the  groand, 
Marvel  not:  but  believe,  that  not  without 


»-lU.  PURGATORY,  CwiTO  III. 

HyniBBler;  lud  [hat  yirtuoua  tribs  n 


dbefor 


Making  a  Bigaal 

Then  of  them  one  began  :  ■■  WhmiVt  thou  urt, 
Who  journey'rt  tbia  thia  way,  ihy  visi^  (um  ; 
Think  if  mo  elsewhere  thou  huA  ever  «<en." 

1  towardH  bim  tura'd,  and  with  fix'il  eye  beheld' 
Comely  and  fair,  and  gentle  of  BBpect 
Ho  Beem'd,  bol  on  one  brow  a  gash  was  mark'd. 

When  hombly  I  disclaim'd  to  have  beheld 
Him  over  :  *^  Now  behold  I''  be  said,  and  showed 
H^i  OD  ho  breast  a  woond :  tlien  Bmiliug  spidce« 

"  I  am  Manfredi,'  grandson  to  tlie  Queen 


1  Ma^rcdi.] 
•»  of  iWeric 


jlhaamAv  an  Eplcnraii.  Sue  G.  VILlaal,  Lib.  vl.  csp.  iliU- 
ni  «t.  dithlu^  Tlnboirhl,  ml.  1.  p.  M.  He  rElflii  ths 
buttle  with  OwIh  nf  Anlrai.  in  IKS,  hJIikIhI  Bi  In  Csbio 


slhod  of  recondllng  lofne  lllile  Rpmrem  IbeondnWiiey  be- 
FDeb    h!id  and  tlie   annalist.     "  Vyinf  eicdumiiuiloiled, 


melhod  of  recoiudlli 


T  lbs  hridao  uf  B- 


[  of  llie  hingdnDi.  beEnnao  jl  wu  &b  Isnil  nf  Ihc  i^hnrc 
1  that  II  wu  bulled  ii;  the  rfvet  Verde,  nn  (he  burdan 
i  Uudom  and  of  GamwiRna.  Tbtii,  tiowtiver,  wo  do  i 
inn."  Q.  ViUani.  Hlit.,  lib.  ill.  cap.  S.  MftnCndl  and 
ber  >n  Hnken  af  hf  om  Poel  in  hlsDe  Valg.  EloqM  lit 
^  13.  wllh  (lapilar  commendalloB.  "  BlqulilaiR  lllniiln_. 
:.    "Ttmie  llltulrlDU*  worlblei.  Fndeiick  IhB  Empeinv 


bnilsa.    Buch.  therelbn.  u  « 

±  which  ilio  mrieaiy  qf  inch 


noUllly«(i 


«'ffi'""S 


■ 

940                        THE  VISION.                   IIM^^J 

To  my  fur  daughter'  go,  the  parant  gtad                  ^^H 

or  AragoniB  nnd  Sicilm's  pHde  ;                                  ^^H 

And  »r  [he  trnlh  inform  ber,  if  of  me                          ^^H 

Auglit  e]«  bo  told.     When  by  two  monal  blona      ^H 

My  froma  was  ahaltet'd,  I  betook  mymlf                   4^H 

Weeping  lo  him,  who  of  free  will  forgives.                  ^M 

My  sU>»  were  horriblo  ;  but  so  wide  Bime                     H 

Hnth  goodness  infinilB.  that  it  receives                           ^H 

All  who  turn  to  iL     Had  this  teit  diyino                        H 

Been  of  Coaenia's  shepherd  bettor  Kann'd,                   H 

Who  then  by  Clement*  on  my  hunt  was  net,                 H 

Yet  at  the  bridge'B  head  ray  bones  had  lain,                  H 

Near  Beneveulo,  by  the  heavy  mole                                  ^| 

Pmtected ;  but  the  rain  now  drenchea  Ibem, 

And  the  wiod  drives,  out  of  the  kingdom's  boonda. 

Fur  as  the  stream  of  Verde,'  where,  with  Ughts 

Entingnish'd.  he  removed  them  from  their  bed. 

Yvt  by  their  curse  we  are  not  so  deatroy'd. 

But  that  the  eternal  love  may  turn,  whils  hope*           ^1 

Ketains  her  verdant  blossom.     True  il  is,                        H 

That  such  one  as  in  contumacy  dies                                H 

Against  the  holy  charch,  thoQgh  hs  repent,                  ^H 

M.ist  wander  thirty-fold  for  all  the  tims                       ,  H 

In  his  presiimplion  pass'd  ;  if  suoh  decree                       ^| 

Be  not  by  prayeis  of  good  men  shorter  roade.                 ^M 

Look  therefore  if  thou  canst  advance  my  bUss  ;             ^H 

Revealing  to  my  good  Coalania,  bow                               ^| 

Thou  hast  beheld  me,  and  beside,  the  termc 

Laid  on  mo  of  thai  interdict ;  for  here 

By  means  of  tlioso  bolow  muoh  profit  comes." 

sod  wffs  nf  rtM  ni.,  kloE  of  Aiaj.)!..  hy  whom  >be  «u 
mDltaer  ui  FreJertflh.  Uan  of  alcUy.  anil  Jmom,  mrm  of  Ani- 

gon.    Willi  the  latter  of  IhBM  BhBwn.  HI  Rome  1398.    8h 

9  C/mclil.J    Pope  Clement  IV 

'    7-Ap  Jlrt™  »/ Firiir,]     A  Hcernear  Ascoli.  thil  (Ul(  IbU 

MBOiuny  .11  Ihs  inlenoBBI  of ««  eiroinmonlMlaSr 

PaiM  la  mraa  di  Manft*.  cal  lava 

•  n^.]                                  -^m 

McBiFB  r.ho  la  .pcranm  taa  tlot  dol  verds.                      ^H 

BuT»MD,G.L..  Canto  III.  n.  03.                                                       H 

/ 

-""——      ^ 

■ 

^^^^^^^g^ 

1-7,  PURGATORY,  CaSTO  IV.  gij 

CANTO     IV, 

AECUMENT. 
Dule  anil  Viigll  iKend  Ihe  mdnnuln  of  Famlury,  by  ■ 

Thus  tonling  UiBDiselFei,  ud  mrnmg  In  Ihe  euL  Duin 
ll  eiplslMd  lu  talm  by  Vlciill ;  snil  wblle  Ibey  conUnna 

eartb.  ud  who  lella  tbM  he  l>  doapied  to  llnRiii  Ihnn  « 
atcoajtt  of  hlfl  haTlnff  deleyod  hli  Tcpentajicfl  to  thD  Lut. 
Wben'  by  BcnaationB  of  deliglit  or  pain, 
Thnt  any  of  our  faculties  halh  scizod. 
Entire  the  soul  coUecU  hcraolf.  It  aecma 
She  ia  intent  upon  that  power  u  lono ; 
And  thus  the  error  is  disproved,  whicli  tiolds 
The  sou!  not  singly  lighted  in  t-he  breast 
And  therefore  whenas  aught  is  heard  or  seen. 


U)  Ihe  [CUonlng  Df  SBIiUB  in  the  Iwegty-flfth  CuKk  ?«■ 
taapi  iriids  lUnitntlun  uuiy  be  dEilved  Ihim  Ihe  (talknriiig 
puuge  In  the  SDHuna  TheolD^  of  Tbonraa  Aqnlnoi.  "Soaia 
ay  llut  In  nddlUim  lo  Ifae  TegBUblg  Knii,  whlota  wai  prBHal 
fkom  the  1int>  there  anitsrvenu  a^alher  iodI,  whlDh  is  Ibe 
labfltlve.  and  bgtin,  Ld  addLUea  la  thai,  anoUier,  which  li 

which  eilBli  poleDLIally  with  f^Hrd  In  anoiher :  but  Ihle  tauB 
hcflD  otnuulf  dlipniTsiL  And  ACEordlngly  oiben  ny  ihat 
tlwl  injDe  >aBl.  which  ni  flnl  was  marolT  regsIaUie,  U, 
thiDogh  ncllnn  gf  Ibe  Hmlat^  rlrluc,  curleil  Rtrward  lIU  It 

ihRlmahncniiiMiHinililvR'  und  at  IcDglh  the  sune  by  an  tU- 


ihroQgh  ih 
m  a  naperior  figen-. 
ODI."    (Thif  Dplnlsn 
etga  qnidam  quM  snpia  aaiiDBni  TsgeuhUein,  qum  primo  lo- 

snlmjc.  qnsrqin  una  cil  Id  pdUnlla  ad  allMd,  qnud  impra  Im- 
imbatuoi  est.  EI  Ideo  am  dicunt,  f^QTjd  Ilia  eadein  anirM. 
qoE  yiiiao  fall  vegetaQva  tantrnn,  pofliraadnm  per  acllonom 
vkrluDB,  nam  est  in  aenilne,  perdacltiuul  tioc.  ndpueadflm 
fiat  vanBldTaj  «t  isndom  Ipsa  eadem  perdudlur  ad  hec  at 
Ipsa  odem  nat  InlallecUva.  nan  qaldcm  per  virlaleni  ecd- 
TBCO  semlnlB,  »d  per  tlmiem  supedoilB  sgeptii,  Kllleet  Del 
derails  UlniUantii,"  THim.  Afua,  Opera,  fdif.  Fauln  ISBB, 
lom.  I.;  Sanins  TAtnlig'.  Ina  Parr,,  Quaillo  cttlil.  .4rt,ll. 
BsBalso  Leltem  dl  FnOnllUinc.*".  B™a,  n«,  p.  IS;  Ml 


94a  THE  VISION.  6-4fc 

That  firmly  keeps  the  kiuI  toward  it  tum'd. 
Time  pasaes,  and  a  man  perceiTea  it  not. 
For  liiot,  whereby  we  hearken,  la  ona  power ; 
Another  Ihal,  which  (he  whole  spirit  hath: 
Thli  is  OS  it  were  bound,  while  that  ia  frcB. 

This  found  I  true  by  proor,  bouing  (hat  spirit. 
And  wondering ;  for  full  fifty  Btepe'  aloft 
The  BUD  had  moaaured,  unobsprved  of  me. 
When  we  arrived  whore  all  with  oae  accord 
The  spirits  shouted,  "  Here  ia  what  ye  aak." 

A  larger  aperlura  afl-limes  is  stopp'd, 
With  forked  stake  of  thorn  by  villager. 
When  (he  ripe  grape  imbrowns,  (haii  was  the  path, 
By  which  my  guide,  and  I  behind  liim  cloee. 
Ascended  solitary,  when  that  troop 
Departing  left  us.    On  SanleoV  road 
Who  journeys,  or  to  Noli'  low  dcscenda, 
Or  mounts  BiBmaDtua's'  height,  must  use  lus  feet ; 
But  here  a  man  had  need  to  Hy,  I  mean 
With  the  swift  wing'  and  plumes  of  high  desire. 
Conducted  by  his  aid,  who  gave  me  hope. 
And  with  light  furnisli'd  to  direct  my  way. 

We  Uirough  the  broken  rock  aaoended,  oloee 
Pent  ou  each  side,  while  underneath  tlie  ground 
Afik'd  help  of  hands  and  feet.     When  we  arrived 
Near  on  the  highest  ridge  of  the  Bteep  bonk. 
Where  the  plain  level  open'd,  I  excloini'd, 
"  O  Master !  say,  which  way  can  we  proceed." 

He  anawer'd,  "  Let  no  step  of  thine  recede. 
Behind  me  gain  the  mountain,  till  to  us 
Some  practised  guide  appear."     That  eminence 
Was  lofty,  that  no  eye  might  reach  its  point; 
And  the  side  proudly  rinng,  more  than  line* 
From  the  mid  qnadrant  to  the  centre  drawn. 
I,  wearied,  (hog  began :  "  Parent  beloved  ! 
Turn  and  behold  how  I  remain  alone. 
If  thou  stay  not." — "  My  son  1"   lie  straight  rejriierf, 

'  nil' Mty  eiepa.]   Three  houM  Mi  tweaty  niinnei,  (IfteMi 

>Ss<Uai.]    A  fortreM  on  the  laminll  of  HontotbllrD.    Ilw 
slnntlon  L>  deicrlhcd  by  Troya.  VaLDo  Allegorico.  p.  11.    II 

■  Jfili.]    In  Ibfl  GeaoeM  lenllnry,  belwcen  Piaale  and  8t- 

<  Bimanta^']   Asleep  naoudlaia  ia  the  tertitorj of  Rwffru 
>  IvitJt  tMt  SKifl  wti>t.\    tToiDpare  Paradise^  (TaBID  fKrluTlT. 

■  Jftrs  lAan  (int.]    U  was  mnch  noarer  lo  lielng  pcrpeodhf. 


I 


I 


«-e9. 


PURGATORY,  C*»TO  IV. 


243 


"  Thus  for  put  forth  thy  sttsngtb ;"  Bad  to  a  track 
Pauited.  Ihat,  od  Ihin  ade  prtijecling,  ronnd 
Circles  the  hUl.     His  wotiIb  eo  apurr'd  me  on, 
Thai  I,  behhid  bim,  clamheriag,  forced  toyteit. 
Till  my  feel  presa'd  the  circuit  plun  beneath. 
There  bolh  together  seated,  tuni'd  we  round 
To  eaolward,  whence  was  our  asocnt :  and  oft 
Majiy  beside  have  with  delight  look'd  back. 

FIret  on  Iho  nelhec  ahores  I  tiim'd  mine  eym, 
Then  rawed  them  lo  the  aim,  and  wondering  IHMfc'd 
Thai  from  the  left'  it  Hoote  ub.     Soon  pereeived 
That  poet  gage,  bow  at  the  car  of  tight 
Amaied'  I  stood,  where  'Iwiit  us  and  tlie  north 
Its  caurs?  it  euler'd.     Wbenee  be  IbtiB  to  mo : 
"  Were  Leda'a  offlprlng"  now  m  eompflny 
Of  that  brand  mirror,  that  liigh  up  and  low 
Imparts  his  light  beneath,  thou  mightst  behold 
The  ruddy  Zodiac  nearer  to  the  Bears 
Wheel,  if  its  ancient  coume  it  not  forsook. 
How  that  may  be,  if  thou  wouldst  Iliink  ;  within 
Pondering,  imagine  Sion  witli  Itim  rrioimt 
Placed  on  the  earth,  so  that  to  both  be  ono 
Horizon,  and  two  hemispheres  apart, 
Where  lies  the  path'  that  Pha6l6n  ill  knew 
To  guide  his  erring  chariot :  thou  wilt  see' 


'Pnmlti^li^L]    VclluullaaluB[ve>iiiiiiiiSuiianarLucu 

leniitnm  VDbli.  Ambea.  vonliU)  in  oiliora, 

I  .^Hiicd.}    He  wooden  that  IhIdb  tuned  lu  <hu  eul  be 

should  »a  .he  ion  on  hi.  left,  *in«  hi  all  Uie  re«Ww  un  lbi> 

wbo  lunti  hH  ft'cB  lowBid*  lbs  eml;  not  raeolleiiUng  Ihm 
hs  was  now  enltpodal  lo  Euro|»,  ftoni  whence  ho  bad  neen 

UK  <ua  uklng  siTe^polIe  .niirH. 

Gemini  li  neaier  Ihe  Ban  Ihan  Aiiea  \>.  »  l>  corlnln  thai  If 

Iba  inn.  iomeid  of  being  in  Aiioi,  hul  beun  In  Gemini.  boUi 

the  ran  and  IhM  pocdon  of  Ike  Zodiac  made  '  ruddy'  by  the 

■un,  woBid  have  been  Been  la  '  wheel  nearer  lo  Ihe  Bean.' 

n^n  of  ili  Zodiac  HtTected  or  omdo  red  by  the  <sn; 
£■  Ibe  wh.do  of  llie  ZodI.e  never  rtimnpit.  nw  appoani  to 

Ehaage.  »1U.  respect  to  the  remslnder  of  Ibe  heaven.-"- 

*7*<(Ml*,)    Tba  ecu  pile. 

■  3b.  y,ill  m.l    "  If  yon  consider  Ihal  lhl>  mountain  of 

Ponatory,  and  Ihsl  of  afoa.  ar«  antipodal  «,  each  <rther,  J.™ 
wiirpereelve  Ihal  Ihe  ren  mm  t  rtie  on  opposlie  alios  ot  ii» 

1 


S41  THE  VISION.  TM 

Hnw  of  nencssily  by  this,  on  one, 

lie  poieee,  while  by  that  on  the  other  side ; 

If  wilb  thut  clear  view  thine  intellecl  attend.' 

"Of  truth,  kind  teacher;"   I  exclaini'd,  "■ 
Anght  saw  I  Devci,  ob  I  now  discom. 
Where  soem'd  my  ken  to  roil,  that  the  mid  oib' 
Of  the  BuperosJ  motioa  (which  in  teima 
Of  art  is  coll'd  the  Equator,  and  remains 
StUI  'twin  the  sun  and  whitei)  for  the  cause 
Thon  bast  oBsigo'd,  boin  hence  toward  the  n<ath 
Dcpnits,  when  thoae,  who  in  the  Hebrew  land 
Were  dvellers,  saw  it  towards  the  Wttrraer  put 
Bnt  if  it  ptsBBe  thee,  I  would  glndt;  know. 
How  far  we  have  to  journey :  for  the  hill 
Mounts  liigiier,  than  this  aight  of  mine 

He  thus  to  me  :  "  Such  ia  tbia  eteep 
That  it  is  ever  difficult  at  first, 

When  pleasant  it  shail  seem  to  thee,  so  mn 
That  upward  goiii£r  shall  bo  easy  to  thee 
Ab  in  a  veBsel  to  go  down  the  tide, 
Then  of  this  path  thou  wilt  liave  reach'd  tint 
There  hope  to  rent  thee  from  thy  toil.     F 
I  EiiBwer,  and  thus  far  for  certain  know.' 
As  he  his  words  had  spoken,  near  to  us 
A  voice  there  sounded :  "  Yet  ye  first  perdianoe. 
May  to  repose  yon  by  conatraint  bo  led." 
At  sound  (hereof  eaoh  tnrn'd  ;  and  on  tho  left 
A  huge  stone  we  beheld,  of  which  nor  I 
Nor  he  before  was  Ware.    Thither  we  drewj 
And  there  were  some,  who  in  the  shady  place 
Behind  the  rock  were  atand'uig,  as  a  man 
Through  idleness  might  stand.    Among  them 
Who  aeem'd  to  bo  much  weeried,  "■■  '■""  ■'""' 
And  with  hia  arms  did  fold  his  kn 
Holding  hia  face  between  them  downward  bent. 
"Sweet   Sir!"    1  cried,  "behold  that  man 
Ilimaelf  more  idle  than  if  laziness  [showH 

Were  slater  to  liim."     Straight  ho  tamM  to  ns. 


109-135.  PCItGATORY,  CiKTO  IV.  24B 

And,  o'er  the  thigb  lifting  his  face,  observed, 
Then  in  these  accanta  Bjrake :  "  Up  then,  piweed, 
Thoa  TaUoDt  one."     Straight  who  it  was  I  knew  ; 
Nor  conid  the  pain  I  felt  (for  wiuit  of  breath 
Still  somewhat  lU'ged  me)  hiodet  my  appnacb. 
And  when  I  came  to  him,  he  acajce  hia  head 
Dplifted,  Baying,  "  Well  haat  Ihoii  disceni'd, 
Han>  from  the  left  the  sim  his  chariot  leads." 

His  lazy  acts  and  broken  words  my  lips 
To  laughter  somewhat  moved ;  when  I  began  : 
•'  Belajiqnn,'  now  for  thee  1  grieve  no  more. 
Bot  tell,  why  thou  artaested  upright  there. 
Woileal  than  eacort  to  conduct  thee  hence  7 
Or  blame  1  only  thine  accuatom'd  ways?" 
Then  he  :  "  My  brother !  of  what  iiae  to  mount. 
When,  to  my  suSering,  would  not  let  nia  pass 
The  bird  of  God,'  who  at  the  portal  Bile  1 
Behooves  so  long  that  heaven  tirat  bear  mo  round 
Withoat  its  limita,  a 


:a  the  end. 


sighs 


Dela/d ;  if  prayer  do  not  aid  me  first. 

That  riaeth  up  fmm  heart  which  Uvea  in  grace 

What  other  kmd  avails,  not  heard  in  heaven?" 

Ascending,  cried :  "  Haste  thso ;  for  see  the  sua 
Has  toucli'd  the  point  meridian  ;  and  (he  uight 
How  covers  with  her  foot  Marocco'a  shore."' 


KoBVs  CusiDO  MS.  then 


t  very  DHliseot  \n  bli  affiiln.  both  Bgiiniosl 
Laura  Si  EuMazia  Diauirclloi  ai  AngclU 


>  TluHriofOi^.l    tlDFStiTelwoDltaecni 

iiad  "  AbbsI,"  -'Ujib«"uul  ■■Anf^l'*  ofGud- 

■  Marotafa  iAg<^.]    Caopfe  Is  nolle  gid  < 


nbedpl^ed. 


■ 

2J6                        THE  VISION.                       *'t^l 

^H 

AKGUMENT.                                  ^™ 

ail  Ihsy  wi'iE  overtaken  b;  a.  ejolsnl  denth.  when  tuOictenl 
ilBce  being  nllowed  them.  Ihey  were  then  saved  ;  and 

among  ii»«.Gt«Dpo  del  CM«m.  BnoneontB  da  MwU- 

fellro,  and  Pla.  a  ladj  of  Bianoa.                                        ^^ 

Now  had  I  left  those  spirils,  and  punned              ^^| 

Ftrinting  the  fii^r  at  me,  oae  eiclaini'd :                ^^H 

"  See,  liov  it  aeenu  aa  if  the  light  not  ahoae            ^^H 

From  (he  left  hand'-  of  bim  beoBath,'  and  he,           ^^H 

Aa  living,  aeenu  to  be  led  on."     Mine  eyes,             ^^H 

I  at  (hal  Bound  reTBJting,  saw  them  gaze,                ^^^| 

Through  wouder,  first  at  ma  ;  and  then  at  me         ^^1 

And  the  1ij;lit  broken  uodemBath,  by  tumii.              ^H 

"  Why  are  tby  thoughta  Ihng  rivetBd,"  my  gukla 

Exclaim'd.  "  tbal  thou  liast  riaek'd  thy  pace  f  «■  how 

IniporiB  it  thea,  what  thing  is  whiaper'd  here? 

Cotne  after  me,  and  to  their  babhlinga  leave 

The  crowd.     Be  aa  a  tower,'  tbal,  finnly  aat. 

Shakes  not  its  top  for  any  blast  tliat  blows.                     W 

He,  in  whose  bosom  thoueht  on  thou^t  shootB  oaij^^ 

Still  of  his  aim  is  wide,  in  that  tbe  one                          ^M 

Sicklica  and  waaleG  to  naught  (ho  Dtlier'a  atiengtb."!^! 

What  other  ooutd  1  answer,  eaye  "  1  come  r        ^M 

I  said  it,  somewhat  with  thai  oolor  tinged,                   ^H 

Which  oft-times  pardon  moritoth  for  mnn.                  ^H 

Monnwhilo  traverao  along  the  hiil  there  came,     "S 

A  tiltlo  way  before  ua,  somo  who  sang                          ^H 

TIlB  "  Miserere"  in  reaponsivo  atroins.                           '  ■ 

When  tliey  porccivGd  tliat  through  my  body  I          ^H 

Gave  way  not  for  the  raj-s  to  pass,  tlieir  song            "J^^ 

'  n^Tu-T^^^f  *Tta  Bun  wa.,  therefore,  on  <he  riAl 

of  onr  tmyellen.    For.  lu,  beTom.  when  Mated  and  lonkin| 

10  lbs  oait  from  whence  Ihov  bud  ascoodeil.  the  snn  wb»  on 
Ihrtrletti  lo  now  that  they  Tinve  risen  and  sre  apilD  giring 

roFwanl,  it  ii.n<[  be  on  D»  ^p«dle  aide  of  Ihen.             °^ 

die  mamitoln.  and  therefote  was  the  lower  of  lbs  two.        Z^| 

So  Bemi,  Orl.  Ian'.,  lib.  1.  CHalo  lyl. «.  48.                             ^M 

In  qne!  dae  pi»di  .ti  ferm.1 11  ^Kant.                    ^H 

Com-  una  lorrc  In  mezEO  d'nn  caalello.               ^^M 

/ 

And  Milton,  P.  L.,  b.  \.  SQL                                                ^^H 

II                    ^M 

WM 

Andu 


PUBGATOUY,  Canto  V 

atongw 


lu  guise 


n  ihey  chaagn] ; 


"Ofyoa, 


meet  □■,  and  uiquiriog  ask'd : 
IT  coudition  wa  wcralii  gladly  leafii." 

ly  guide.     "  Yo  may  return,  and  bo«r 
TidhigB  to  them  who  aent  you,  that  Ilia  (lamo 
Is  ii:al  aoBh.     If,  as  I  deem,  to  view 
His  ehads  they  paused,  enough  ia  auswer'd  tliem  i 
Him  let  them  honor :  they  may  prize  Uim  welL" 

Ne'er  aaw  I  lieiy  rapon'  with  such  spaed  I 

Cut  thiDugh  the  serene  air  at  fall  of  nigUt,  ' 

Nor  Angusl's  cloud*  athwart  the  wjttiug  sun, 
That  upward  these  did  not  in  ahorter  spacB 
Retuiru  ;  and,  there  arriving,  with  the  rest 
Wheal  back  on  us,  aa  with  loose  leiu  a  troop. 

"  Many,"  eiclnlm'd   the   bard,  "  are  these,  who 
Aromid  us :  to  potitien  tlieo,  (hoy  come.  (throng 

Go  therefore  do,  and  listen  aa  thou  go'at." 

"  O  spirit !  who  go'st  oa  to  biiiBBeduesa, 
With  the  same  liml»  that  clad  thee  at  thy  hirth," 


outing  tl 


a  Utile  I 


t  thy  el 


LdoIi  if  iJioa  any  one  among  our  1 

Hast  e'er  beheld,  that  tidings  of  him  there' 

Thou  mayst  report.    Ah,  wherefore  go'st  (hou  on  ? 

Ah,  wbet«fore  larriest  tbou  not  T     We  all 

By  vkrtenca  died,  and  to  our  latest  hour 

Were  siuuera,  but  then  wam'd  by  light  from  lienven ; 

So  that,  repeuling  and  forgiving,  we 

Did  iasuu  out  of  life  at  peace  with  God, 

Wlio,  with  desire  to  see  him,  fills  our  heart" 

Tbon  i  :  "  The  visages  of  all  I  scan. 
Yet  none  of  ye  remember.    But  if  aught 
That  I  can  do  may  please  you,  gentle  spirits ! 
Speak,  and  1  will  perform  il;  by  that  peace, 
Which,  on  the  steps  of  guide  bo  excellent 


FoUov 


ng,  fron 


vorld,  in 


•x  lie  began:  "  Nob 


it  Isr 


And  \ij  Hilun.  F.  L..  i.  iv 


349  THE  VISION. 

Thy  kiodnom,  thoogb  not  promised  with  i 
So  an  the  will  foil  uot  for  wont  of  power- 
Whence  I,  who  boIb  before  Ihe  others  Bpoi 
Estreat  thee,  if  thou  oyor  sea  that  land' 
Which  lies  betwoen  RomagnB.  and  the  rsnim 
Of  Cliarlea,  that  of  thy  courtesy  (hou  pray 
Those  who  inhahit  Fano,  that  for  me 
Their  adomtioDB  duly  be  put  up^ 
By  which  1  may  pu^o  o^  my  grievoQS  Bins. 
From  thouco  I  came."     But  the  deep  paBBa?eSt 
Whence  iaaued  out  Iho  bhwd'  wherein  I  dwelt. 
Upon  my  bonoizi  iu  Antonor'B  land* 
Were  made,  where  to  be  more  eocure  I  thought. 
The  author  of  the  deed  was  Esto's  prinoe. 
Who,  more  than  right  could  warrant,  with  hia  wTO 
PuTfiued  me.     Had  1  toworda  Mira  fled. 
When  oyerta'en  at  Oriaco,  still 
Might  I  have  breathed.     But  to  the  marsh  1  sped : 
And  in  iho  mire  and  rushea  tangled  there 
Fell,  and  beheld  my  life-blood  float  the  piam." 
Tlien  said  another  :  "  Ah !  so  may  the  wish. 
That  takes  thee  o'er  (be  mountain,  be  fulfiU'd, 
Ah  thou  shall  graciously  give  aid  to  mine. 
Of  Moutefeitro  I ;'  Buonconle  I : 

Sorrowing  with  these  I  therefore  go."     I  thus: 
"  From  Campaldino's  field  what  force  or  chance 

anil  Apulia,  lbs  klmdooi  of  Cliarlra  of  Anjon. 

1  fhm  Ihnct  I  uihe.J  Glacepo  del  Caiwera,  a  eltlEsn  Of  ] 
FfFrara,  ivaH  by  bis  orders  pm  (o  ileBtb,    Glacopo  w 

river.  insEeed  ot  sjoklDg  Jbr  Iha  mfijsb  on  tbe  eea-BhozD,  Iw  -1 

■  TitrUwiLJ    9appoBedlo1»lhs»BlofllA. 

>  Aiticmr-i  land.]  Tbe  dty  of  Psdnik  raid  to  ba  (bnndff  fl 
UyAntenar.— This  Implies  s  reflection  on  the  PuIquu.  mI 
Hell,  xiili.  8ft.    Thus  C,  VUlul  calli  Iha  TeDeUam  "Otl 


tlimulifhed  pan,  asvieiu 
degli  Uberlf,  DUlameiidc 


Inlusllfe.  SesFudo 


Ei 


«-M0.  PURGATORY,  Canto  V.  SJ49 

DiBW  thee,  that  ne'er  thy  sepultunt  was  known?" 

A  Mreain  thent  couiBcth,  Damod  Archiand,  sprung 

la  ApenuinB  above  tho  ' 

E'en  where  its  name  is 

Pierced  in  tho  throat,'  1         „  . 

And  bloodyiiiB  tho  plain.     Ilero  sight  and  spcoch 

Fail'd  me  ;  and,  fiairiiing  with  Mary's  name, 

I  fell,  and  tennntlBas  my  flesh  remauk'd. 

I  will  report  tho  truth ;  which  thou  agitin 

TeU  to  the  living.     Mb  God's  angel  took,' 

While  he  of  hell  oiclnini'd:  '  O  thou  from  heaven  1 

'  Say  wherefore  haal  thoii  robb'd  mel    Thou  of  him 

'  Th'  eternal  porllon  bear'al  wilh  thee  away, 

'  For  one  poor  teai*  thai  ho  deprives  mo  of. 

'  But  of  the  other,  othor  rale  I  make.' 

"  Thou  know'st  how  in  the  atmosphere  collecls 
That  vapor  dank,  returning  into  water 
Soon  as  it  moiinlx  where  cold  condonses  it. 
That  evil  will,'  which  in  Ilia  intellect 
Still  follows  evil,  came ;  and  raised  the  wind 
And  smoky  mist,  hy  virtue  of  tiie  power 
GivBD  hy  his  nature.     Thence  the  valley,  Boon 
Afl  day  was  spent,  he  cover'd  o'er  with  eloud. 
From  PratoniBgno  to  the  mountain  range  ;^ 
And  stretch'd  the  sky  above  ;  so  (hat  the  air 
[mpregaote  clianged  to  water.     Fell  the  rain  ; 
And  to  the  fosses  came  all  that  the  land 
Contaia'd  not ;  and,  as  mighti^t  streams  are  wont, 
To  the  great  river,  with  such  headlong  Bweep, 


I  Thkt 


of,]    Tlis  hermllaes  of  Csnuildali. 


850  THE  VISION. 

RoKh'd,  Ihitt  naaghl  lUy'il  iU  coiine.  Nj 
Laid  nt  his  mouth,  Ihe  fell  Archinna  found. 
And  duh'd  it  into  Amo;  fram  my  breast 


Along  the  banks  and  bottom  of  his  course ; 
Then  in  ]m  muddy  spaile  encircling  wrapp'd." 

"  Ah  1  when  thou  to  the  world  ahalt  be  rator 
And  rented  after  thy  Ion?  mud,"  so  spake 
Next  the  third  spirit ;  "  Won  remsniher  me. 
I  once  was  Pia."     Sienna  gave  mo  life ; 
Marerama  took  it  from  me.     That  he  knows, 
Who  me  with  jewell'd  ring  had  firat  espouaod." 

CANTO    VI. 


1 


how  Ihfi  de&d  can  be  -;iruflud  by  thfr  prayan  of  Ibe  living 
far  the  aolotlQQ  of  vrhkeh  doubt  he  is  fofefred  lo  BcoUicc 
Altorwarde  he  oweta  wJLb  Sordislln  the  Mantiuu).  whos 
aflecdaiiH  shown  lo  Vjtfll  hiB  cannhymBii,  liauLa  Dantl 

Blrain  wllta  which  iulyi  luid  niom  sflpeclallf  Fliuooca,  i 

When  from  their  game  of  dice  men  BBttarale, 
He  who  hath  lost  romuns  in  sadness  fii'd, 
Revolving  in  hia  mind*  what  Inckless  throws 
He  cast :  but,  meanwhile,  all  tho  company 
Go  witli  the  other ;  one  before  him  runs. 
And  one  behind  his  mantle  twitches,  ono 
FaHt  by  his  side  bids  him  remember  him. 
He  elopa  not ;  and  each  one,  to  whom  hia  hand 
Is  Btretch'd,  well  knows  he  bids  him  stand  aside  ; 


RJpcienilolB  vulie, 


™        \ 

I 


10-B3.  PURGATOtty,  Curro  VI,  ■ 

And  Ihua'  he  rrant  the  press  duCeaiia  himnt'li. 
E'en  auch  was  I  in  Uitit  cloHs-crawditi^  throng ; 
And  turning  bo  my  face  a-round  to  all, 
And  pioroiaing,  1  'Bcnped  froni  it  with  pains. 
I      Here  of  Axnzzo  hiin'  I  enn,  who  fell 
I  By  China's  cruel  ann ;  and  him  boBide,* 
I  Who  in  Ilia  chaae  waa  awailow'd  by  tha  BtreBiD. 
Here  Frederic  Norello,'  with  hia  hnnd 
Strelch'd  forth,  ontrealed  ;  and  of  Pian  he," 
Who  put  the  good  Marzuco  to  audi  proof 
Ofeonatancy.     Count  Oiso"  I  heheld; 
And  from  its  frame  a  soul  diamias'd  for  apite 
And  envy,  as  it  said,  hut  for  no  erime  ; 
1  speak  of  Peter  de  la  Broso :'  and  here, 


vaal  for  money  lo  Iw  fllven  lu  bysa^nden  m  pl4y  hy  wla- 

IwrlbEaJI,  wkh  his  asMai  power  of  nbaervallDn.  whnt  he  had 
often  nfln,  the  abufflkng,  boon -denying  e:i1t  of  the  Btic««lhl 


bi  Jnr1*nTiuloiK«,  who 
111.  Ttuiita,  bnltiBr  of  i 


t  Of  PUa  hs-]    Farlntta  da^  ScnrnMsBl  of  PI 
Ihet  Utrtaai,  who  bad  enlend  Ihe  orSei  of  Ibe  I 

Jdved  Uie  haiiih  of  the  ilsydr  ^  hLa  aoo,  end. 
following  the  t^erAl,e<liorted  tUa  Unamen  (onii 


kiB  of  Napoleono  ds  Ceibntn.  al 

n.]    BeoEiary  of  Philip  III.  Df] 

The  courtlsn,  eerylnE  the  high  pleee  which  he  beld 


AllHno  dn  9 

The  courtlsn,  eeninE  the  hlEb  pli 
kbir>  fixor,  preTellea  en  Mury  ol 


863  THE  VISION. 

While  Bbo  yet  Uvea,  Ihat  Lady  of  Brabant, 
Let  bcr  bowara  ;  lest  for  so  false  a  deed 
She  held  with  worse  than  these.    When  I  w 
From  all  those  Bpidta,  who  pray'd  for  othera'  pcaja 
To  hasten  an  theii  state  of  blessednen; 
Straight  I  began:  "  O  thou,  my  luminaiy! 


IS  ejpreaaly  in  thy  U 


;  yet  with  this  design 


ir  hope ;  if  welt 
Bcred  height 


That 

TOBU.. 

Do  these  entreat. 
Or  is  thy  Haying  not  1 

Hs  thDs  to  ms ;  '■  I 
And  these  deceived  m 
Thy  mind  conwder,  tl 
or  judgment'  doth  no 
In  a  abort  tnoment  all  fulfils,  which  he, 
Who  sojouniB  hero,  in  right  shoald  satisfy. 
Besides,  when  I  this  point  concluded  thiu. 
By  praying  no  defect  could  b«  supplied; 
Because  the  prayer  had  none  access  to  Glod. 
Yet  in  this  deep  suspicion  rest  thon  not 
Contented,  unless  she  ssauro  thee  so, 
Who  betwixt  truth  and  mind  injuses  light : 
I  know  not  if  thou  take  me  right ;  I  mean 
Beatrice.     Her  tliou  shalt  behold  above,' 
Upon  this  mounlain'B  crown,  fair  seat  of  joy." 

Then  I :  "Sir  I  let  us  mend  our  speed  ;  for  ~ 
I  tire  not  as  before :  and  lo  1  the  hill* 

Bd  say  (be  lulisn  conunsDUIan.  Berumll  rspreHnu  the 
Di&tler  ler;  dinercDll; :  '■  Flciie  da  la  BnHK,  (bnuHly  tor- 
ber  10  BE-  Lonl^  afierwards  tha  favoiita  ot  Philip,  feaflqf 
tba  too  great  BtuichmenI  of  the  kins  Ibr  hii  wife  Uary,  «^_ 

Phmp.bjhljflralmfiinup.    ■SBcalmnnyit'ai 

Chrm..  ms,  *c.    The  DopalaH,  o     ' 


ppcme  ihnt  BDCCHfxIfl,^ 


lehllcD,    EdiT..  GluaU,  isn.  p.  40. 
■Hflal.]    HorefeigloVlrgU,  ^n.,  Ill),  t),  n 
Desinc  Ma  deim  flecU  aperare  precudo. 
Tkc  lacred  kiigU 


lan'.M^J 

I 


PURGATOaY,  Canto  VI.  263 

Stretchm  its  ^adow  fat."     He  answer'd  thus ; 
"Our  prograBa  wKh  this  day  ahull  be  ua  much 

'  ipatch  ;  but  otlierwiee 
Than  thou  aupposEst  is  the  truth.     For  there 

Him  bach  retumiug,  who  behiud  the  steep 
1h  DOW  BO  hiddeRt  that^  as  emt.  hiu  beariL 
Thou  do9t  not  hreali.     But  lo !  a  spirit  there 

We  HDOU  appToach'd  it.     O  thou  Lunibord  spirit ! 
How  didst  thou  staud,  in  high  absLraoted  niDoiiT 
Scarce  moving  with  alow  dignity  thiue  eyca. 
It  spokti  not  aught,  but  let  ua  onward  paaa, 
Eyeing  ua  aa  a  lion  on  his  watch.' 
But  Virgil,  with  entreaty  miid,  advanced, 
Eequeating  it  to  ahow  the  beat  anc(»t. 
It  answer  to  liis  queatioa  none  retiun'd  ; 
But  of  our  country  and  our  kind  of  life 
Demanded.    When  my  courteous  pitdo  began, 
"  Mantua,"  the  shadow,  in  itself  ahsorb'd,' 
Seee  towards  ua  from  the  place  in  which  it  Hlood, 
And  cried,  "  Mautuan  I  I  am  thy  countryman. 
Bordello.'"    Each  the  other  then  embraced. 


Aemrxlag 


mtph  of  Death,  cap.  J. 


jiBlDrv  of  Sonjclla'B  lifs  li  wrapped  in  Ihs 

icmily  of  iDmancB.  Thai  he  d!a[llieal>hod  hliDsellhyhls 
III  in  FTDisnjal  pueOy  Iji  eeruln ;  and  many  feaU  nt  mlU- 
T  prowm  have  been  sILrtEtnnn]  (o  hkju.    II  Is  probable 


ca 


«l  njladnn  la  him.  and  has  pariicnlartv  e 
lions  nairallta  which  Piailna  hai  Introiluoi 


854  THE  VISION, 

Ah,  slavish  Italy  !  Ihou  inn  of  grief'.' 

Venel  without  a  pilot  in  laud  atorni  [ 

Jjody  no  Lon^r  of  fitir  praTinc4«, 

Bui  brothel-houae  impure !  this  p-ntle  spirit. 

Even  from  the  pleasant  sound  of  his  deu  land 

Was  prompt  to  greet  a  fellow-oitiien 

With  such  glad  cheer:  while  now  thy  Uving  onc^  ] 

In  thee  abide  not  without  war;  and  oae 

Malicious  gnaws  another;  ay,  of  those 

Whom  the  same  wall  and  the  some  moat  cantaina. 

Seek,  wretched  one  !  around  thy  sea-coasta  wide ; 

Then  homeward  to  thy  bosoio  turn ;  and  mark, 

If  any  part  of  theo  sweet  peace  enjoy. 

What  bouts  it,  that  thy  reina  Juetinian's  hand' 

Refitted,  if  thy  saddle  he  unpress'd  1 

Naughl  doth  he  now  but  aggravate  thy  shame. 

Ah,  people  '.  thou  obedient  still  atiouldst  live. 

And  in  the  saddle  let  thy  Cffisar  sit, 

If  well  thou  markedst  that  which  God  commands.'* 
Look  how  that  beast  to  fellneas  hath  relapsed. 

From  having  lost  correction  of  the  spur. 

Since  to  the  bridle  thou  hast  set  thine  hand. 


the  aulhorily  of  Ibe  Conlo  d'Anamml 
By  Butera,  In  hli  Cnua  rmvDBialB, 
1.  M,  among  BmileUo'i  MS.  uwbb  U 
ntloned  ■'CahEODl,  TebKOdl,  CobboLe." 
teKW  pnrUenturly  one  in  Ifaelbnnof  a 

signing  ]ir1iic«  In  Chrlgtendom.     'mi 


la  lighl  by  the  indniUy  at  K.  Ray- 


ll 


pnenu  have  been  branEht  la  bgbl  by  th . ,  . 

nnnird  in  bla  Choii  de>  Pa«si«  Aa  Tionbodna 

Vita  JWrwn  Ji  Dante,  p.  335. 

Why  thonld  haid-fkvor'i]  siiof  be  lodged  In  Ihse  ! 

•  Tiylinfv'nm.l  Compare  Mlllon,  P,  L,li.ii.  «a,  *«■ 
>  Jutiinim't  Imjid.]    "  Wbat  avails  U  Ihil  jDiUnliB  deUv- 

nalDDgerandet  lbecoaI^Dio^blB>ncu930[sl^lhBeIn)llreI" 
•  Ttol  n*iVA  Oni  cunauiMda.]    He  alladei  lo  the  piecfpl:— 

"  ttender  unu  Cieut  Ibe  Ibing:  Hbicb  aie  GipiBr'a,'' 


Wbea  thou  shouldxtclasp  her  tlatikawiUi  forked  heels. 

Jnat  judgment  troa\  (he  stars  full  oa  thy  blood ; 

And  he  it  Btrange  and  manifest  to  nil ; 

Such  as  may  Btrike  Ihy  HueceBBo:"  with  dread ; 

For  that  thy  site'  and  tliou  liave  Biiffer'd  thus, 

Through  greadineaa  of  yonder  raalina  delain'd, 

The  gardsn  of  the  empire  to  run  wuBte. 

Come,  see  (he  Capulela  and  MontiigueB,' 

The  Filipposchi  and  Moualdi,'  man 

Who  cartat  for  naught ',  (hoae  euiik  iii  grief,  and  these 

With  diie  HUBiHcioD  rack'd.    Come,  cruel  one  ! 

Come,  and  behold  the  opprmuon  of  (lie  nobles, 

And  msirk  their  injuries ;  and  thou  mayst  see 

What  safety  Saiitatiore  can  supply.' 

Come  and  behold  thy  Rome,'  who  Falls  on  thee. 

Desolate  vidow,  day  and  night  with  moans, 

"  My  CiBsar,  why  dost  thou  desert  my  side  V' 


.".■u-sx- 

L^^r^uThTih^^^^Sl^^^on^? 

Wrt  wan  Henry  of 

■  7S»  sfnr.l    The  Eiaperor  Rinlolph,  Uw 
Inl  Ui  pawci  In  Genmiiy  lo  Elva  much 
inry,  -  the  evd»n  of  lbs  ennHil." 

of  brt  ["hmghU^ 

*  O^cu  and  MmUgiui.]    Onr  eam 
lo  Itae  oainei  of  Ibeu  rinij  %DiiEaa  tn  the 
■pHVe,  IhBI  I  have  Hied  ibem  Iniuml  d 
uil  "CappellDiU."      They  nere  two  jk 
Amlllei  ot  VeroDB.    In  toiua  para  of  i 

al  play,  of  whlth 

ilr  QQ  lUUBn  Tnitieily.  4U.  ITW,  }  I.  |l  411. 

•  Wlua  •'fcln  SmttjEiTt  can  txfplg.]    A  pluee  belirsen 

.  HM  arulB  nhaltasr  wa  Bfaanlil  nni  nnd  "  come  >L  enm"— 
How  BuDUflnn  i>  piTented."  PcrbniH  Ihe  evenl  leJucd 
I  lbs  wile  10  V.  98,  unio  il.  may  bs  pDlnled  a1. 

la.BoiK.l    Thn.inlheLaUqBpf.UBlo 
il  tall  been  Inlcli/  diiroTereil  In  the  Lun- 


Ajidif 


THE  VISION.  IB- 

s.  and  bphold  wh&t  love  among  thy  people: 


3  pily  tc 


:»  tbce  for  B 


i,  and  biush  for  -thine  own  reporl.     For  me. 
If  it  be  lawful,  O  Alntighty  Power '. 
WLa  wast  in  eaitb  for  our  aakta  cruciiied. 
Are  (by  jnst  eyes  tnm'd  elsewhere  7  or  is  this 
A  preparation,  ■□  Ibe  woadroun  depth 
or  thy  sage  cuonsol  mitde,  for  Bnme  good  end, 
Ealirely  bom  oor  reach  of  Uiongbl  cut  off  1 
^  are  the  Italian  cities  all  o^ertbrDo^d 
With  tyrants,  and  a  great  MarceUnB^inade 
Of  every  petty  factioue  villager. 

My  norence!  thou  mayat  well  remain  DnmovedlJ 
At  this  digreesoQf  wliieh  afiects  not  Ibee : 
Tbankfi  to  tiiy  people,  who  so  wisely  flpeed. 
Many  have  justice  in.  Ibeir  heart,  that  long 
Wailetli  for  counael  to  direct  the  bow, 
Or  era  it  dart  unto  its  aha:  but  thine 
Have  it  on  their  lip's  edge.     Many  rafuBe' 
To  beai  tlie  common  burdens :  readier  thine 
Answer  Duoali'd,  and  cry,  "  Behold  I  sloop  '." 

Make  thyself  glad,  for  thou  hast  reuatrn  now. 
Than  wealthy  '.  thou  at  pence !  thuu  wisdotn-fratightl  I 
Facts  bmt  will  witness  if  I  speak  the  truth. 
Athens  and  LacediEmon,  who  of  old 
Euacted  laws,  for  civil  arte  rciiown'd. 
Made  Uttle  progress  in  improving  life 
Towards  thee,  who  nsert  such  nice  anbttety. 
That  to  the  middle  of  November  acarce 
Reaches  the  thread  thou  in  October  weaveaL 
How  many  times  within  thy  memory. 
Customs,  and  laws,  and  coins,  and  offices 
Have  been  by  thee  renew'd,  and  people  changed. 

If  thou  remcmber'Bt  well  and  canal  see  clear, 
Thou  wilt  perceive  thyself  like  a  ack  wretch,* 


EeMsled  by  Alaouuini  in  his  CDllivazIone,  Illi.  i 
He  probably  mesns   tbe    Mnirellos  who   Dp| 

■  Many  rrfinr.]  He  appean  lo  have  b«n  of  Plain's  mlad, 
that  [n  a  cniniiiDqweBlIb  of  wonhy  mep,  pl&ra  luul  pnwsr 
VFDuld  he  QB  much  dci'llb«d  sn  they  ^-f"  i^"  aooifhl  ntter  aad 
Mveterf.  tnv6Bn6ti  ni^is  ififi^v  dyaMf*  it  yfifotrOt  wtpt- 
Vj?"*""  '''  ''"■"  ^'  '"  '*''*'"'  *'""°  ""  "^  '™"'-    niiXtr. 

'  M  siek  KrAc\\  ImVlaueA  \k  t\ifi  CunUaa]  ite  Folienac  hi 
his  AdU-LucibUiu,  la.  I.  Vm. 


I 


I5Z,IS3.  PURGATORY,  Canto  TIL 

Who  Rnds  do  mit  upon  lier  dawn,  bul  oil 
Shifting  hiiT  Bide,  siuitt  renpite  Beeke  from  pe 


CANTO    VIL 


«  Emperor  Rodulph,  < 


WfUtan.,  Marqqls  of  Monlforr 


Eiclfliming,  "  Who  ai     _ 
By  spiriu  northy  of  ascent  to  God 
Was  sought,  my  boDes  had  by  Octavius'  care 
Boeu  buried.     I  am  Vii^l ;  for  no  an 
Deprived  of  hoBveu,  except  far  lack  of  fdth." 
So  answer'd  him  in  few  my  gentle  guide. 
Ab  one,  who  uught  before  him  suddenly 
Beholding,  whence  hie  wonder  riaeth,  ciiec, 
"  II  IB,  yet  Is  not,"  warering  in  belief; 
Such  he  appetr'd  ;  then  downward  beat  his  eyes. 
And,  drawing  near  with  reverential  step, 
Caught  bim,  where  one  of  mean  estatn  might  clnap 
Hia  FonL'    "  Glory  of  Latium  I"  be  exclniin'd, 
"In  whom  oar  tongue  its  utmost  power  diaplay'd  ; 
Boast  of  my  boaor'd  bulb-place  1  what  desert 
Of  mine,  what  faior,  rather,  uudeeerred, 
Shows  Ihee  to  me?     If  I  to  hear  that  voice 
Am  worthy,  say  if  iroQi  below  thou  comeat,         [orb 
And  from  what  cloiStet'e  pale." — "  Througli  Byery 


Nm  jural 
Nee  illarba 

Inda 

BoA 
1    Bu 

ISS 

■^li 

s'abbiB 
hlno. 

wlkiw 

ntnnar 

:  quo! 'ml 
sngll: 

1 Wk 

A'l  Icrd.] 

IBIO,  Oil,  p..  1 

da, 
de«nu 

258  THE  VISION. 

or  thit  HSkd  icgion,"  he  roplied,  "  thus  tar 
Am  I  airivod,  by  heavenly  influenCD  led: 
And  with  such  aid  I  come.     NoL  for  my  doing,' 
But  for  not  doing,  have  1  lost  the  sight 
Of  that  high  Sun,  whom  thou  desiiEBt,  and  wbo 
By  mo  too  lute  was  known.     There  ts  a  place* 


Then 


ealh,  I 


ehy 


But  by  dun  ehades  alone ;  where  mourning's  voii 
Soiinib  not  of  snEuiah  sharp,  but  breathes  in  Bieh 
There  I  with  liltle  innocents  abide, 
Who  by  death's  fangs  were  lutteD,  ers  exempt 
From  humOD  taint     There  1  with  Ibose  abide, 
Who  the  three  holy  riitneB*  put  not  on, 
But  understDOd  (he  rest,*  and  without  blame 
Fullow'd  them  all.     Bui,  if  thou  koow'st,  and  ca 

Where  Purgatory  its  true  beginning  takes." 

He  answer'd  thus :   "  We  have  no  certain  plac 
Assign'd  us  :  upwards  I  may  go,  oc  roiuuL 
Far  BB  I  can,  I  join  thee  for  Iby  guide. 
But  thou  bflboldest  now  how  day  declines ; 
Ajid  upwards  to  proceed  by  night,  our  power 
Excels :  therefore  it  may  be  well  tji  cbooeo 
A  place  of  pleasant  B«joum.    To  the  light 
Some  sjiirits  sit  apart  retired.     If  thou 


Willie 


1  thy  SI 


And  thou  wilt  know  them,  not  without  delight." 

"  How  chances  this )"  was  answer'd ;  "  whoBO  wish'fl  I 
To  ascend  by  night,  would  he  be  thence  debUiT'd 
By  other,  or  through  his  own  wealuie«a  ful  J" 
The  good  Kordello  then,  along  the  ground 
Trailing  his  finger,  spoke:  "  Only  this  line" 
Thou  shalt  not  ovcrp&oi,  soon  as  the  eun 
Hath  disappear'd  ;  not  that  aught  else  impedes 
Thy  going  upwards,  save  the  shades  of  nigfaL 
These,  with  the  want  of  power,  perplex  the  will. 
With  them  thou  haply  mightst  return  beneath. 
Or  to  and  ii-o  around  the  mountain's  aide 
Wander,  while  day  ia  in  the  horizon  shut." 

Lyelt  for  pcriniing  oiii  lo  nis  Ibsl  thras  lings  of  lbs  otlftim 

'  T*i  Ura  htif  virlua.]    Faith,  Hnpe.  and  Oaiitg. 
'TkCTisQ   PradcniH,  JiuUce,  ForHIiHla,  sad  TaapBniM«. 
>  Only  rJtii  line-i  -Walk  while  ye  have  lbs  l(ghI,lMtila(k- 
noaa  cnmenpon  you;  Ibr  he  that  w- ""**** '"  .^--i^"—  • -—^ 


Ulnieu,  kHHir'^^H 

im 


tlrOL  PURGATORY,  Canto  YD.  350 

My  master  straight,  as  wondering  at  his  speech, 
Exclaim'd :  *<  Then  lead  us  quickly,  where  thou  sayst 
That,  while  we  stay,  we  may  enjoy  delight" 

A  little  space  we  were  removed  from  thence, 
When  I  perceived  the  mountain  hollow'd  out, 
Even  as  large  valleys*  hollow'd  out  on  earth. 

"  That  way,"  the  escorting  spirit  cried,  "  we  go. 
Where  in  a  bosom  the  high  hank  recedes : 
And  thou  await  renewal  of  the  day." 

Betwixt  the  steep  and  plain,  a  crooked  path 
Led  us  traverse  into  the  ridge's  side, 
Where  more  than  half  the  sloping  edge  expires. 
Refulgent  gold,  and  silver  thrice  refined. 
And  scarlet  grain  and  ceruse,  Indian  wood' 
Of  lucid  dye  serene,  fresh  emeralds' 
But  newly  broken,  by  the  herbs  and  flowers 
Placed  in  that  fair  recess,  in  color  all 
Had  been  surpass'd,  as  great  surpasses  less. 
Nor  nature  only  there  lavish'd  her  hues, 
But  of  the  sweetness*  of  a  thousand  smells 
A  rare  and  undistinguished  fragrance  made. 
Salve  Regina,"^  on  the  grass  and  flowers. 


(( 


1  ^s  large  valleys.l  Viatores  enim  per  viani  roctain  dam 
ambulant,  campum  joxta  viam  cernentes  spatiosnm  et  pul- 
chrum,  oblitique  itineris  dicunt  intra  se  iter  per  campnm  istum 
faciamus,  &c.    Alherici  Vvtio,  ^  28. 

3  Indian  toood.^ 

Indico  legno  lucido  e  sereno. 

It  is  a  little  uncertain  what  is  meant  by  this.  Indigo,  al- 
though it  is  extracted  from  an  herb,  seems  the  most  lilcely. 
Monti  in  his  Proposta  maintains  it  to  be  ebony. 

*  Fresh  emeralds.^ 

Under  foot  the  violet. 
Crocus,  and  hyacinth  with  rich  inlay 
Broider'd  the  ground,  more  colorM  than  with  stone 
Of  costliest  emblem.  Milton,  P.  L.,  b.  iv.  709. 

Zaflir,  rubini,  oro,  topazj,  e  perle, 
£  dlamanti,  e  crisoliti  e  giacinti 
Potriano  i  fiori  assimigliar,  che  per  le 
Liete  piagge  v'avea  Taura  dipinti ; 
Si  verdi  Terbe,  che  potendo  averle 
dua  giu  me  foran  gli  smeraldl  vinti. 

ArioaiOj  Orl.  Fur.,  Canto  xxxiv.  St.  49. 

*  T^e  sweetness.] 

E  quella  ai  fiori,  ai  pomi,  e  alia  verzura 

Gli  odor  diversi  depredando  giva, 

£  di  tutti  faceva  una  mistura, 

Che  di  soaviti  I'alma  notriva.  Ibid,  st  51. 

ft  Salve  Regrina.]  The  beginning  of  a  prayer  to  the  Virgin. 
It  is  sufficient  here  to  observe,  that  in  similar  instances  I  shall 
either  preserve  the  original  Latin  words  or  translate  them,  as 
it  may  seem  best  to  suit  the  purpose  of  the  verse. 


i 


96D 


THE  VISION. 


Here  chanting.  I  beheld  thoae  siHriUnC, 
Who  not  beyond  the  valley  Muld  be  Been. 

"  Barore  the  westering  snn  sink  to  hifl  bed," 
Began  the  Manluan,  who  our  steps  had  turn'd, 
'■  'Mid  those,  desire  not  Ihal  I  lend  ye  on. 
"      "  'ne  nee  ye  shall  discam 


Better 


'nil. 


ler  vale,  among  them  mix'd. 
He,  who  sits  high  above  the  rest,  and  seems 
To  have  nogleeled  that  he  should  have  done. 
And  to  the  others'  song  moves  not  hia  lip, 
The  Emperor  Hodolpli'  call,  who  might  have  hi 
The  wounds  whereof  fair  Italy  halh  died, 
So  (hat  by  othere  she  revives  but  slowly. 
He,  who  with  kindly  visage  comforts  him, 
Sway'd  in  (hat  country,'  where  Ihe  water  epringa,  3 
Thai  Moldaw's  river  lo  the  Elbe,  and  Elbe  '' 

Rolls  (o  the  oceau :  OWoeai*  his  name  : 
Who  in  hia  swaddling  clothes  was  of  more  wt>rth 
Than  Winceelaus  his  son.  a  bearded  man, 
Famgier'd  with  rank  luxuriousnees  and  ease. 
And  Ihat  one  with  the  nose  depress'd,'  who  close 
In  connael  seems  with  him  of  gentle  look,* 
Flying  expired,  withering  the  lily's  flower. 
Look  there,  how  he  doth  knock  against  his  b 
The  other  ye  behold,  who  for  his  cheek 
Makes  of  one  hand  a  couch,  with  braguent  sighs. 
They  are  (he  father  and  the  father-in-law 
Of  Gallia's  bane ;'  his  vicious  life  they  know 


IT 

ic  Evipmrr  SuSofpk.]    Bee  Ihe 

lost  Canlo. 

T.  IIM.    Be 

'  Ttal  amnlrt.l 

Bohemia. 

of  Ml 

I^he 

rchfleld,  nmKhl  wllb  RnduliA, 
;  II.  his  SDH.  »tiD  sncuolfld  h 
u.l»,rtlertlBl30a.    ThsUllerl. 

mu  killed 
ngqal  an. 

■galnuue.: 

nihehuilo 
»78.     WlB- 

P»n 

A«r  pi>r  ».(*  lAi.  »«>  i«i>TW.'rf.]    Philip  lU.  of  FiuM4 
orPbllLiUV.    He  died  in  ISS3.  Bl  FeijrigDiui,  InhKiM 
nunAragon.                                                                             _, 
im  nfrmlU  /«(.]    Henry  of  Nnvam,  fliiber  f.f  JslH 
od  m  f  hUip  IV.  of  Pmnco,  whom  Dmle  call*  "  out  dl 
ie"--Gama's  l«r«." 

(enceofKlrinRth 

O.  YlKanl,  lib.  vii.  ran.  14S,  speaks  irtih 
f  Philip IV.    "In  ISSl.  onihe  bKMoT 

113-iaS.  PURGATORY,  CiPfro  VII. 

And  foul ;  themca  conies  the  giief  that  rends  tl 


il  of  limb,'  who  tncanure  1 
h  him  of  feature  proinineal,' 
vTiui  ever;  TLilae  bore  his  giidle  braced. 
And  if  that  stiipling,'  who  behind  him  nil 
KiDg  after  him  had  lived,  his  virtuD  Ibeii 
From  vessel  to  like  vesael  had  been  pour' 
Wliich  may  not  of  [be  other  heira  be  rail 
By  Jameii  and  Frederick*  bis  reaJma  are 
Neither  the  bettor  heritage  obtaina. 
Haml]''  into  the  ttranches  of  Uie  tree 


the  kliudoni  of  Aragnn,  apd  Fr&Utiick  in  tba 
Lhe  PnjvencaL  poels  by  lU 


Bielly.    ; 

Hill.  Lit 
Urn  rwa 


Hill.  Lltt  6r»  Tii>u<Tfidoq 


.1.)   " 


I  I.  King  of  NnnlM,  i 
,    lie  dlod  In  1^84. 


Iflnsgim,  1^  wtiorn  Cbuif 


ei  wna  niiniKuod,  either  Id  mlUuiy 
Id  the  lunbuH  of  hli  ondcnUiHl- 


Tbsi  tiight  Dudiu,  ipey 

FnLl  lelde  uptiielli  liv  hi 
FrowMMol^n.fbrOo 
Woll  OiHI  we  lIhIdi  of  h 

But  loDiporal  tlilnii,  that 

ConnWB  HoDHii,  Od.,  b. )).  v. 
SaiiiMta,  fSBcaa,  301. 


THE  VBICTf. 
Doth  humoD  worth  mount  up :  and  so 


lie  who 


It  luuy  be  call'd.     To  Charles'  my  words  apply 

No  leH  than  to  hta  brother  in  the  nong  ; 

Wliicli  FouillB  aud  Provaaco  dow  with  grief  conTen. 

Su  ttiucli  tliBt  plaut  degeueratoB  &oin  iu  seed. 

As,  tiiure  thaii  Beatrix  aud  Margaret, 

Coetania'  Ktlll  boasts  of  her  viilorouB  spouse. 

"  Behold  ths  kiof  of  simple  ttfti  and  plain, 
Hairy  of  Eagluid,' sitting  there  itlone  : 
He  through  tUB  branches  better  issue'  spreada. 

"  That  one,  who,  oa  the  ground,  beneath  the  rest. 
Sits  lowest,  yet  his  gaie  directs  aloft, 
Is  VVilliain,  that  brave  Man^uis,*  Sot  whose  cause. 
The  deed  of  Alexandria  and  his  war 
Mokes  Moiitferrat  and  Canavese  weep." 


«.]    ' 


:s,]    WidowDfPsceiln 


[^Iiuies  n.  Ktog  of  Na- 
-  '~\arlei  I.,  Iban  Junes 

«  Csnlo  n.  TS.  eod 

n  slresdj 


,    ».KLBg 

■  Hany  of  EntlaiuL]    Henr;  IH.    The  coBtemponrv  u- 

cup.  4.  "  From  RielDuil  «»s  bom  Henry,  who  nlgaed  aner 
bloh  via  wu  n  plsin  iniui  ami  oT  goud  tkllh.  tut  of  UIUs 
munii."    With  llie  ei«pUiin  oF  Ibe  Lsat  pan  of  (he  len- 

ilegU  CberU.  Dim- 


ID,  PURGATORY,  Cinto  VIH.  a63 

CANTO   VIII. 

AROiJMENT. 


Now 


Jan 


I  niiftellc  iniHnIa-    L&iEir*  Conrad  MnLupiiu  prvdkl 

tB  [he  hour  that  wnkenv  fond  deaire 
sea,  and  melts  theii  Uiuughtfiil  heart 
!t  friends  farewell, 


Who  in  l!iB  morn  have  hi 

And  pilgrim  newly  on  hifl  road  with  love 

Thrills,  If  he  hear  the  vesper  bell  from  far,' 

Thai  seems  to  moiini  for  the  eipiring  day ;' 

When  I,  DO  longer  taking  heed  to  hear, 

Began,  with  wnnder,  from  those  spirilito  mark 

One  risen  from  its  seat,  which  with  iU  hand 

Audience  implored.     Both  pahns  it  johi'd  aiul  raiaeJ, 

Futin?  lis  Bteadfast  gaze  toward  the  eatil. 

As  tellii^  God,  "  I  care  for  naughl  beside." 

"  Te  Luetfl  Ante,'"  so  devoutly  then 
Came  from  its  lip,  and  iu  bo  soft  a  Etrniu, 
Thai  all  ray  sense'  in  ravishment  was  lost. 
And  the  rest  after,  sotlly  and  dcvont, 
Follow'd  throngh  all  the  hymn,  with  upward  gaze 
Directed  to  the  bright  supernal  wheels.  [keen  ; 

Here,  readeil'  for   the    truth   make   thine   eyes 


a- bM  fHHx  far. 


Milbnx't  P™ 


LlalhekiMllnfinrii 


•C%- 


•  Tt  I-ncii  Anti.]  "TelDcIs 
bardi.  li  Iha  llnl  Tcne  of  lbs  b) 
Uie  Iftflt  put  of  the  iscred  olTics 


by  which  Itm  coRiii,T«i»iHMi>  hbtd  u,. 
Ihongh  it  may  be  thouubt  nllier  U»  i 
like  (be  veil  lueir  spoken  of  in  tbe  H 
■hs  pialH  of  eiuanrdinuy  Ingenaily. 


^iplHtuitoii  of  ibl>  p> 


"TUb  odaundUaa 


r 


i 


S64  THE  VISION.  30-U. 

For  of  BO  subtle  tertare  is  Ihu  veii, 

Thai  Ihou  with  ense  mayel  pnw  it  through  unmarli'd. 

I  saw  that  eenlle  band  eilently  next 
Look  up,  Be  ifin  DxpFctation  held, 
Pale  aad  in  lowl;  guiae  ;  and,  from  Du  high, 
1  saw,  forfh  issuiug  descend  beneath, 
Two  angela,  with  two  flamt^-iihinuned  swordfi, 
Broken  and  mutilated  of  their  points. 
Gruuu  as  the  lender  leaves  but  newly  born, 
Their  vealnre  wbb,  the  which,  by  wings  as  neen 
Beaten,  tliey  drew  behind  tliem,  fana  d  in  air. 
A  little  over  ua  one  took  hia  «tand  ; 
The  other  lighted  on  the  apposing  bill ; 
So  that  the  troop  were  in  the  mi^  coDtaio'd. 

Well  I  descried  the  whiteness  on  their  heads ; 
But  in  their  visages  the  daizled  eye 
Wa»  lost,  as  faculty'  that  Ire  too  much 
Ib  overpower'd.    "  From  Mary's  boaoni  both 
Are  come,"  exclnim'd  Sordello,  "as  a  guard 
Over  the  vale,  'gainst  him,  who  hither  lends, 
The  serpent."    Whence,  Dot  knowing  by  which  polS 
Ho  came,  I  tum'd  me  round ;  and  closely  preaa'd, 
All  froien,  to  my  leader's  trusted  side. 

Sordello  pauBsd  not :  "  To  the  valley  now 
(For  it  is  time)  let  us  descend  ;  and  hold 


I 


eully  passes  on,  wilhunl  Hrcelvlii|  11.  (a  ob>BcB  llwt  lie  i 

may InsenBlbiy  pass  on  lo  cDntcmplau  Iheu      '  '' 
ffora  pTHylnE  for  the  relief  of  Itiebr  own  vta 
Goverlpglhe  veil  iif  oiu  WHiiti,wilh  whkh  ' 
»lv«  Lb  ttw  act  of  Dflerlng  op  tUi  pnyer." 

My  earlhly  by  Ua  heavenly  OTerpomir*d 

Ai  wili  Kn  ohjoct,  tbo 
Dasleil  and  ipent. 


4S-13.  PURGATOay,  Canto  VIU.  265 

Converee  with  tboae  great  shadows :  haply  much 
Their  aighl  may  please  ye."    Only  three  B£epa  down 
Methinke  [  meusured,  ere  I  was  beaeath, 
d  aoted  ans  who  look'd  as  with  dashe 
To  know  me.     Tnna  was  now  that  air  grew  dim ; 
Yel  not  8o  dim,  that,  'twixt  his  eyea  and  uime, 
It  olonr'd  not  up  what  was  conceai'd  before. 
Mutually  towards  each  other  we  advaaced. 
Nino,  thou  courteous  judge!'  whut  joy  1  felt. 
When  I  percoired  thou  wert  not  with  the  bad. 

No  salutation  kind  on  either  part 
Was  left  unsaid.     He  than  itiqmred:  "  How  Icng, 
Since  thou  airivedBt  at  the  mountain's  foot, 
Over  the  dist&nt  waves  J" — "  Oh !"  answer'd  I, 
"  Thniugh  the  Bad  Beats  of  wo  this  mora  I  came ; 
And  EtitI  in  my  lirst  life,  thoa  jaumeying  on, 
The  other  strive  to  gain."     Soon  as  they  heard 
My  words,  he  and  Uordello  haekward  drsw, 
'     suddenly  amazed.     To  Virgil  one, 
e  other  lo  a  spiril  tnra'd,  who  near 
IB  seated,  crying;  "Conrad!"  up  with  speed: 
Come,  see  what  of  his  grace  high  God  hath  wdl'd." 
Then  turning  round  lo  mo ;  "  By  that  raro  mark 
'>f  honor,  which  thou  owest  to  him.  who  hides 

«  deeply  his  firat  cause  it  hsth  no  ford ; 
Wlien  thou  ahalt  be  heyond  the  vast  of  waves, 
TeU  my  Giovaona,'  that  for  me  she  call 

r  mother,'  I  believe,  loves  me  no  more  ; 


liBwlDCauiiiUr>llT 
.    Bee  Noleaui  Hell,  (.Biiii 
Opnrad.]    CurrtulD,  falber 
■  Mt  Oi-ntmna.]    The  daDghler  of 


:i>^|r.]    Nino  dl  (iallota  do-  Viaci 


3fl6  THE  VISION. 

Since  she  liae  changed  the  whhe  and  wimpled  ti 
Which  ehe  is  doom'd  once  mare  with  grief  to  ' 
By  licr  it  eoHly  may  be  perceived, 
How  ioag  in  womsn  lastB  the  flame  of  lore, 
Itsighl  and  touch  do  not  rBlome  it  oft. 
For  hdi  eo  fair  a  burial  will  not  make 
Tlie  viper,'  which  calla  Miian  to  the  fietd, 
As  had  been  made  by  shrill  Gallura'a  bird."* 

He  spokei  and  in  his  Tisage  took  the  stamp 
Of  that  right  leat,  wliich  with  dne  leinpentnre 
Glows  in  tlie  bosom.  My  insatiBle  eye« 
Monuwhile  to  heaven  bad  travell'd,  even  there 
Whore  the  bright  Htara  arc  slDWeet,  as  a  wheel 
Nearest  the  aile ;  when  my  gnide  inquired : 
"What  there  aloft,  my  bod,  has  caught  thy  gaio?" 

I  anewer'd  r  "  The  three  torchBa,'  with  wliich  lioro 
The  pole  is  all  on  tire."     He  then  to  me: 
"  The  fonr  reapleudent  stare,  thou  saw'et  thia  tnorHi 
Are  thero  beneath  ;  nnd  these,  risen  in  their  Btsad." 

While  yet  he  spoke,  Sordello  to  himself 
Drew  hun,  and  cried :  "  Lo  there  our  enemy  i" 
And  with  his  hand  pointed  that  way  to  look. 

Along  the  side,  where  harrier  noae  aroae 
Arflnnd  the  little  vale,  a  serpent  lay, 
Such  haply  as  gave  Eve  the  bitter  food.' 
Between  the  grBse  and  (lowers,  the  evil  snake 

'  7^  aMH  oRd  tsij^cd  JMite.]    The  weeds  uf  wJdow- 
>  TKi  rjgicr.]    The  anus  of  Galeazzo  sad  lbs  enil^  nf  Ihe 


UK'tai. 


PL'RGATOIIY,  Cuna  VIII. 


267 


reverting  of[  hia  lilted  bend  ; 
Ajui,  aa  a  beast  that  umooths  ite  polish'd  coat, 
Xdcking  his  back,     i  saw  not,  nor  can  tell, 
How  tbDse  celflBtiat  falcons  from  tlmir  seat 
Moved,  but  in  motion  Bacb  one  well  descried. 
Hearing  tbe  air  cut  b;  tbeir  renlaat  plumes. 
The  Mrpent  Sed  ;  and,  to  their  etatiaus,  back 
Tho  ang«ls  up  retum'd  witli  equal  fligbt. 

Tbe  spirit,  (wbo  to  Nino,  wlieii  be  call'd, 
Had  come,)  from  viewing  me  witb  fixed  ken, 
Tbroiigb  ail  tbat  conflict,  loosen'd  not  his  sight. 

"  So  may  tbe  lamp,'  wbich  leads  thee  up  on  high, 
find,  in  thy  free  resolve,  of  wa^  bo  much, 
A«  may  suffice  thee  to  the  enameird  lieight," 
It  thus  began :  "  If  any  certain  news 
Of  Valdimagra'  aud  the  neighbor  part 
Thou  kiiow'at,  (ell  me,  who  once  was  mighty  there. 
They  call'd  me  Conrad  Malasplna ;  not 
Tbat  old  one  ;*  but  from  bim  I  sprang.     The  love 
I  bore  my  people  Is  now  here  rebned.^^ 

But,  tluvugh  ol!  Europe,  where  do  tho«e  nicu  dwetl. 

To  whom  their  glory  ia  not  mauifeiit  ? 

The  fame,  that  honore  your  iilualrlous  house, 

FroclainiB  the  nobles,  and  proclaims  the  laud; 

So  that  he  knows  it,  who  was  never  there. 

I  swear  lo  you,  so  may  my  upward  route 

Prosper,  your  honor'd  nutioQ  not  impaiia 

The  value  of  her  coffer  and  her  sword. 

Nalnre  and  nse  give  ber  such  privilege. 

That  while  the  world  is  twisted  from  Ilia  coursa 

By  a  bad  head,  she  only  waJks  aright. 

Arid  has  the  evil  way  iu  scorn,"     He  iJieu : 

"  Now  pOHS  tiles  on :  seven  times  tbe  tired  sim* 

Koviailij  not  the  couch,  wbich  with  four  feet 


I  Jf^lAc/anp.)    "UkJ'Ifae  dlvioi 
timfmliia  oa  ibe  put  at  ibr  own  9 


368                        THE  VISION.                   l»-lj£!^H 

1                 The  forked  Ansa  covera,  ere  that  kind                        ^H 

Opinion  shall  be  nait'd  into  thy  brain                                 ^M 

,                           With  Blrouger  naila  than  olher's  speech  cui  drive  i         ^M 

'                         If  the  Bure  com™  of  judgment  be  notrtay'd."                 ^ 

_..™„^™™,.  ™  .^„_,„ 

1                                             CANTO    IX. 

AHGUMENT. 

1                       LudQ ;  QDd.  on  wae^1l^;,  finds  'hlnmTf,  two  hoon  ntl^ 

.unrl«,  wJlJt  VIWI-  now  Ibe  gale  of  Tiirgalory.  Ihmugh 

Now  ihs  fair  consort  of  Tithonus  old,' 

Ariaeu  from  her  mate's  beloved  arms, 

Look'd  iiHlely  o'er  the  eastern  cliff;  her  brow. 

Luteut  with  jewels,  gUKor'd,  Bet  in  sign 
Of  that  ChiU  animal,*  who  with  Wb  train 

Smii™  tearful  naliooB:  and  whore  then  wo  were. 

Two  stops  of  her  ascent  the  night  had  pass'd ; 

And  now  Ihe  third  wob  closing  up  its  wing," 

1  A-rnc  EAe  fair  consurl  o/  TiliinnLi  M.] 

La  coDcuHlDH  dl  Tllone  snUco. 

So  TasMni,  SerthU  Hapllft.  c  vill.  !l.  15. 

La  palUnellB  dol  ranalo  Bnunle. 

"fo/aiUclimatmai.l    ThescorpLnn. 

•  Tlu  third  v«,  r/.8.V  «.  iU  ^iTV-]     Tha   alghl   iHiiie 
divided  into  rout  wslehe^  I  Ihlnk  be  may  neun  thai  itaa 

third  was  pnsl,  snd  Ihe  ruanh  Bod  lul  wsi  begun,  so  thai 

nlng  of  Canlo  iv.  our  PocI  makes  the  ecenlng  CDmnmBU 

pn»nl  Canbi,  lo  sicnlfv  Iha  rliioE  of  the  mnnn.  cnnitme 
the  "  iwo  ilefw  of  t.ec  B>cent  whieh  lT»  nif ht  had  paM'd,"  lata 

Mnnlo  CuMino  MS,  alono,  b.  fut  as  I  know,  suiiinslns  tlia 

divliion  made  by  SI.  Uidoto  (Orig.,  lib.  S)  oflhe  night  i.u> 

■even  pans  lo  be  adupud  by  uor  Poei,  concludes  that  It  waa 

■■^^hh^i 

WK, 


Re 


PURGATORY,  Canto  IX.  269 

'wiio  had  so  much  of  Adam  with  me, 
upon  the  graas,  overcome  with  sleep, 
"^^liere  all  five*  were  seated.    In  that  hour, 
^©ar  tiie  dawn  the  swallow  her  sad  lay, 
ring  haply  ancient  grief,'  renews ; 

n  our  minds,  more  wanderers  from  the  flesh, 

or  ii^^**'  ^y  thought  restrain'd,  are,  as  't  were,  full 
Ttx^;^^    3f  <liyination  in  their  dreams ; 
A   ^c>l^  "^  *  vision,  did  I  seem  to  view 
W"i^j^  ^^^-feather'd  eagle'  in  the  sky, 
Ax^^    X    ^^^J*  wings,  and  hovering  for  descent ; 
Yj>ti^^      "^^^  in  that  place,  methought,  from  whence 
I  ^^  ^^auymede,  from  his  associates  'reft, 
^:i-yj    ^tch'd  aloft  to  the  high  consistory. 
sti-iKj^*'"  thought  I  within  me,  "  here  alone 
^^8  hia  quarry,  and  elsewhere  disdains 

th^\»,;_      it  these;  and  he  too,  therefore,  is  for  the  lunar 


\sr 


(( 


H 


in^^J?'J3ic>i^'^**H.  Morando  ingenuously  confesses,  that  to  him 
^    I>li<2^^«     Iixi^gage  is  **non  esplicabile  o  alineno  difficillimo,'* 
•^'*    -        ■^.  or,  at  best,  extremely  difficult. 

3      Virgil,  Dante,  Bordello,  Nino,  and  Currado  Ma- 


i^- 


Se©  ^^«1  ^i^^^^ng  haply  ancient  grief.]    Progne  havine  been 


vici 


a  swallow  after  the  outrage  done  her  by  Tereus. 


P»i„^  ^-o^  *    -"^^^tam.,  lib.  vi. 

*he  s4  ^  t:    ^^'^^-feather^d  eag 

P'^^e^^'^^^JL*^^  conclusion  of  the  first  book  and  beginning  of 

**»Jitate  »^^^^*     represents   himself  carried   up  by  the  "grim 


3^  —  *.    ^j  -^-featker*d  eaglej\^  So  Chaucer,  in  the  House  of 


golden  eagle.    Much  of  his  description  is  closely 
^^*n  Dante  :— 

ethought  I  saw  an  eagle  sore. 

•  •  •  •  • 

;^  was  of  golde  and  shone  so  bright, 
hat  never  sawe  men  soche  a  sight. 

The  House  of  FavMy  b.  i. 

^^Phis  eagle,  of  which  I  have  you  tolde, 
^Tbat  with  fethirs  shone  al  of  golde, 
^^^hiche  that  so  hie  gan  to  sore, 
^  gan  beholdin  more  and  more 
jTo  seen  her  beautee  and  the  wonder, 
^ut  never  was  that  dente  of  thondcr, 
■^e  that  thinge  that  men  callin  foudre, 
^That  smite  sometime  a  toure  to  poudre, 
^nd  in  his  swifle  comminge  brend, 
*That  so  swithe  gan  downwarde  discende 
As  this  foule  whan  that  it  behelde, 
That  I  a  roume  was  in  the  felde, 
And  with  his  grim  pawes  stronge, 
Within  his  sharpe  naiiu  longe, 
Mc  fleyng  at  a  swappe  he  hcnt,  &c.       Ihid.  li.  ii. 

«ndida  columbat  similis  advenlens per 

Ttitis  sno  me  ore  apprehendens  ferre  sublimen  cepU.'** 
^isJa,  0  J. 


270  THE  VISION. 

To  poimce  upon  the  firay."    Therowilfa,  it  tei 
A  littlo  wheeling  in  bis  aSry  lour, 
Terrihlo  SB  the  ligblning,  niah'd  he  down. 
And  anatch'd  me  upward  even  to  llie  Gre. 
Tbsre  both,  I  thought,  the  eagle  and  mjKlf, 
Dill  bum  ;  and  bo  intense  the  imagined  flam 
That  needii  my  aleep  waa  broken  off.     Aa 
Achilles  Bhook  himself,  and  round  h'un  roll' 
Hie  wuhen'd  eyebulls,  wondering  where  ht 
Whena«  hie  mother  had  from  Chimn  Qcd 
To  Scynn,  with  him  sleeping  in  her  aims ; 
(Theta'  whence  (he  Greeks  did  after  sunder  him ;) 
E'en  thus  I  shook  me,  soon  aa  from  my  laeo 
The  slumber  parted,  turnuig  deadly  pule. 
Like  one  tcB-struck  with  diead.     ^e  at  my  aide    ■ 
My  comfort  Blood :  and  the  bright  sum  waa  now 
More  than  two  hours  aloft;  and  to  the  sea 
My  looks  were  lurn'd.  "  Feai  not,"  my  master  ciia4 
"  Assured  we  are  at  hajipy  point.     Thy  strsngth 
Shrink  not,  but  rise  dilated.     Thou  art  come 
To  Purgatory  now.     Lo  1  there  the  cliff 
That  circling  bounds  it     Lo !  the  entrance  theie,  , 
Where  it  doth  seem  disputed.     Ere  (he  dawa 
Usher'd  the  daylight,  when  Ihy  wearied  soul 
Slept  in  thee,  o'er  the  flowery  vale  benealh 
A  lady  came,  and  thus  bespake  me:  ^  I 
Am  Lucia.'     Suffer  me  to  take  this  man, 
Who  slumbers.     Easier  so  his  way  shall  speed.* 
Sordolto  and  the  other  gentle  shapes 
Tarrjing,  she  hare  thee  up:  and,  as  day  shona, 
This  summit  roach'd :  and  I  pursued  hei  steps. 
Here  did  ahe  place  thee.     First,  her  lovely  eyes 
That  open  entranco  show'd  me  ;  then  at  once 
She  Tanisb'd  with  thy  sleep."  Like  one,  whose  doubts 
Are  chased  by  certainty,  and  terror  tum'd 
To  comfort  on  discotery  of  the  truth. 
Such  was  the  change  in  me  :  and  as  my  guide 
Behold  me  fearless,  up  along  the  cUff 
He  moved,  and  1  behind  him,  towards  the  height. 
Reader !  thou  niarkest  how  my  theme  doth  rise 
Not  wonder  therefore,  it  more  artfully 
I  prop  the  structure.     Nearer  now  wo  drew. 
Arrived  whence,  in  that  part,  whero  first  a  broach 
Ae  of  a  wall  appear'd,  I  could  descry 


I 


F 


«t>-t06.  PURGATORY,  Canto  IX.  271 

A  portal,  and  three  Blcps  Iwiu-uth,  that  led  . 

Far  inlet  there,  of  diffiireiit  color  each  ; 

And  one  who  watcli'd,  bat  spake  not  ypt  a  woid. 

Aa  more  atid  more  mine  eye  did  stretch  its  view, 

I  muk'd  him  sealed  ou  the  liigheet  atep, 

Id  visage  such,  at  puet  njy  puwer  to  bear. 

Gnup'il  in  his  iinnd,  a  naked  »wurd  glanced  back 

The  rays  so  towardB  me,  that  I  oft  in  vain 

My  jight  diraoted.  "  Speak,  from  whence  ye  stand  ;" 

He  cned:  "What  would  ye'l  Where  ia  your  escort? 

Take  heed  your  coming  upward  harm  ye  not." 

"  A  heavenly  dania,  not  skilleaa  of  these  things," 
Replied  the  instructor,  "  told  ua,  even  now, 
'Pass  that  way:  here  the  gate  is.'" — "  And  may  she, 
Be&iendiag,  proeper  your  ascent,"  resumed 
The  courteous  keeper  of  the  gate :  "  Come  then 
Before  our  steps."    We  straightway  tliither  came. 

The  lowest  alait'  was  marble  white,  so  emooth 
And  polish'd,  that  thereiu  my  mirror'd  fona 
Distinct  I  saw.    The  next  of  hue  more  dark 
Than  sableat  grain,  a  rough  aud  unged  block, 
CiBck'd  lengthwise  and  acrose.     The  tliird,  that  lay 
Massy  above,  eeem'd  porphyry,  that  flamed 
Red  aa  the  life-Uood  Bpoutitig  from  a  vein. 
On  this  God's  angel  either  foot  sustairi'd. 
Upon  the  tliroehold  seated,  whieb  appear'd 
A  rock  of  diamond.     Up  the  trmol  steps 
My  leader  oheorly  drew  me.     "  Ask,"  said  he, 
"  With  humble  heart,  that  he  unbar  (be  boll." 

Piously  at  Ilia  holy  feet  devolved 
I  cast  me,  praying  him  for  pity's  sake 
That  he  would  open  to  me ;  but  first  fell 
Thrice  ou  my  boBom  prostrate.     Seven  tim^ 
The  letter,  that  denotes  (he  mward  stain, 
He,  oa  my  forehead,  with  the  blunted  point 
Of  his  drawn  sword,  inscribed.  And  "  Look,"  he  cried, 
"  When  euter'd.  that  thou  wash  these  aoara  away." 
les,  or  earth  ta'en  dry  out  of  the  ground, 


r 

973                        THE  TI8ION.                    lOT-U^^I 

Were  of  oiio  color  with  tho  robe  he  wore.                   ^^^| 

Two  hejB,'  of  metal  twain :  [ho  one  whs  golil,          ,^H 

Iti  fellow  BJlver.     With  the  pallid  first,                       '  ^H 

And  next  the  bunuEh'd,  he  ao  ply'd  the  ^te,                ^M 

A.  to  Ronlent  me  well.     "  Whonorer  one                         H 

Failelh  of  these,  that  in  the  key-hole  atraight                  ^1 

It  turn  not,  to  tills  alley  then  expect                                  ^M 

AcFCBB  in  vain."     Such  were  the  words  he  gpake.         ^M 

Skill  and  sagacity,  lai^  share  of  each,                             ^M 

Be  worthily  porformU     From  Peter  those                          ^ 

I  hold,  of  hiin  iiistnicled  that  1  err 

Rather  in  opening,  than  in  keeping  fast ; 

So  but  tho  Bup))liBnl  at  my  feet  implore." 

Then  of  that  hallow'd  gate  he  thrust  the  door. 

Eiclaiming,  "  Enter,  but  tliis  warning  hear:                     H 

He  forth  Bgain  depturts  who  looks  behind."                     ^M 

As  ill  tile  hinges  of  that  sacred  word                             ^M 

The  Bwiveb  tuni'd,  sonorous  metal  strong,                    ^H 

Hatah  was  the  grating  f  nor  m  suriily                            ^ 

Roar'd  the  Tarpeian,'  when  by  force  bereft 

OS  good  Metellua,  thenaeforth  from  his  Ion 

1  7V»   *n«.1      Lomtartl   remarti,   that   palBteis  li.v> 
Oiraally  dmwo  Wbit  PBler  wilh  Iwn  k^y.,  die  one  of  pM 

of  hi.bein*  repcBMnledwilh  one  key,  addB^m  three.    We 

have  here,  bowenu,  DDt  Balm  Peler,  but  an  iui(sl  depatad 

■  One  ji  vtare  pririioui,}  The  Enlden  keydemrtei  IbedtTisa 

dl<ch>rKeonh»l<>ffice.                                                               ^m 

■H^«*,.«U«frBttvl                                                                  ■ 

On  «  nodrleB  open  fly                             ^M 

Th'  lntli™»1  doom,  and  on  ihelr  UngM  grUfi                    ^H 

Ilmh  Ihunder.                      Jfilt^,  J*.  £,  b.  U.  SSI.      ^M 

rroUnns  Bbduclo  palneroat  lempla  Metello.                      ^H 

Tnnn  rnns  Turpela  lumil:  niBunoque  recliuas               ^^M 

Tmuiioiatridorsfarei:  nine  FondLiui  Imo                        ^H 

EmUnr  lemplQ  ninlUa  inKiclm  ab  aaal>                               ^H 

Romsnl«.a,MpopBll,»«.     /.««-,  PA.,  lib.  HH57.     ^M 

The  Irihnne  nlth  nawilllim  tlaps  withdraw,                 '  ^H 

While  l[n[il<:n<  hands  Ihe  rada  uiauU  renew  i                ^H 

Tbe  Inaicn  aulaii  wllh  ihnaderine  itrokei  nwwiiiL        ^^H 

Al  leniilh  tbe  aacrad  alorebouM.  ripen  [aid,                   ,^^H 

1-ha  buaiitad  waallb  of  SRei  put  dliiphiy'd.       Jtawc^^H 

[ 

^,^1 

To  leBimeM  doora'd.     Attentiyely  I  toni'd, 

LiEtouine  the  thunder  that  first  taaned  forth  ; 

And  ■'  We  praise  thee,  O  God,"  iiiethougbt  I  henril, 

In  accents  blended  vith  eweet  Dirlody. 

The  Btiaing  come  o'er  miao  eat,  e'en  as  the  sound 

Of  choral  ToicM,  (hat  in  aolomn  chant 

With  or^u'  mingle,  and,  now  liigh  and  tilear 

Come  Bweliing,  now  float  indistinct  away. 


CANTO   X. 

ARGUMENT. 
Beloi;  admitted  at  tbe  ^te  of  Furf^Tory,  imi  Poetfl  otctBi 

eildale  tha  B^n  of  pride,  and  wliu  are  bout  down  buaei 

ItlB  weigbl  of  beavy  aloiiBS. 

When  we  had  pass'd  the  thiPBhoid  of  the  gate, 
(Which  tbe  soul's  ill  affection  doth  disuse, 
Making  llie  croaked  seem  the  straighter  path) 
1  heard  Its  closmg  sonnd.     Had  mine  eyes  tnm^di 
For  that  offence  what  plea  might  have  avail'dJ 
We  mounted  up  Iho  riven  rock,  tliat  wound' 
On  either  side  alternate,  as  the  wave 


'Or/ftn.]    Oma 

iweniuei 

inludya. 

sarlyMlntlK 

Uih 

cenlurir.    See  Tin 

boHhi,  Slor.  della'Let 

IkL.,  110.  vo 

Kb.  iU.  «p.  L,  4  ) 

whore  ih 

tollowing 

lescripHon  of 

lulnuDnilliquoudlVoniCnr 

rafcs'^ 

^JlBtalI,^ 

'T"T"..^ 

!!Z 

iSdJii™,' 

mefflcmnt 

wiHinp,  wbicb  lb 

OWI  tbHl  : 

',:  ■■. ',.'.,; 

Mil's 

bliUnw. 

■  nal  muuj.; 

s.rj 

<lly  olacrvas,  liia.  tbe 

ail  re 

d-AqnIae  hat  mil 

thU  pauage 

bn 

dalui 

ascemnm 

ultra 

BcUMtreoie 

tenulquea 

naHca  motn. 

■l'h<.VB,b"mgove 

Ml  Ilea  i 

lgDllu:aUon  i 

lDlbma,ainlaivm.31. 

S^vm" 

mo  delta  n 

icciaicofU 

nly  jntbi  Hdvancod. 

In  iwlUiet  iilai»  U 

acnuliDDll 

374  THE  VIStON. 

Flies  and  adTsncee.      "  Here  some  little  ait 
BohonveH  ub,"  aaid  my  loader.  "  that  oat  gtepe 
Obspne  the  vnrying  flexure  of  the  path." 

Thus  we  so  alowlj-sped.  llial  with  cleft  orb 
The  moon  once  more  o'eriiangs  her  watery  coodi, 
F^re  we  that  strait  have  threaded.     But  when  frect' 
a,  mill  open,  where  tho  mount  above 


OiieBt 
And 


Thai 


n  of  the  way,  we  stood, 
a  plam  mora  lanisaine  Ibsn  the  roads 

«  desert  wQda.     From  whence  IhebrilA' 


cvp  bant  that  rieea  still,  the  apace 
tied  meaauced  thrice  the  atature  of  a  man  : 
And,  distant  as  mine  eye  could  wing  iU  flight. 
To  leftward  now  and  now  to  right  t&patch'd, 
""  '  ■  It  apptfar'iL 


i 


Not  yet 


When 


<et  had  on  that  El 
r'dthat  the  bank, 


Whose  proud  up™ 

Was  marlile  white  ;  ana  so  eiaciiy  wrougut 

With  quaintest  acalpture,  that  not  them  aloae 

Had  PolyclBttiB,  but  e'en  nature's  self 

Been  shamed.   Tbe  Bugel,  (who  came  down  toeu 

With  tidiugH  of  the  peace  so  many  years 

Wept  for  in  vain,  that  opad  the  heavenly  fratea 

From  their  long  interdict)  before  us  eeem'd. 

In  a  sweet  act,  so  sculptured  to  the  life. 

He  look'd  do  ulent  itnags.     One  had  owom 

He  had  said  "Hail!'"  for  Ao  was  unaged  there, 

By  whom  the  key  did  opna  to  God's  love  ; 

And  in  her  act  as  senaibly  impresa'd 

That  word,  ■'  Behold  the  handmaid  of  the  Lnrf," 

Ab  figure  seal'J  on  wax.    "  Fix  not  thy  mind 

On  one  place  only,"  said  the  guide  beloved. 

Who  had  me  near  him  on  that  part  where  Uea 

The  heart  of  man.      My  flight  forthwith  I  tani'd,    ; 

And  mork'd,  behind  the  vu^m  mother'    ' 


PUKGATORY,  Cabto  X.  371 

Upon  that  side  whera  he  lliat  mnved  ran  Blood, 
Anothoi  Mary  graven  on  the  rock. 

I  puBs'd  athwart  the  bard,  and  drew  me  near, 
That  it  roii^t  aland  more  aptly  for  my  view. 
There,  in  the  self-same  marble,  were  engTBVod 
The  cart  and  kine,  drawing  tlie  sacred  ark, 
Thai  from  iinbid<<en  olfice  awea  mankind.' 
Before  it  como  much  people  ;  and  the  whole 
Parted  in  seven  qnirea.     One  eenne  cried  "  Nay," 
Another,  "  Yea,  they  sing."     Like  douht  arose 
Betwixt  the  eye  and  smell,  fxoni  the  curled  fame 
Of  iocensB  breathing'  up  the  well-wrought  toil. 
Preceding^  ihe  bleat  vesBel,  oaward  came 
With  light  dunce  leaping,  girt  in  humble  guise, 
laTael'B  BWeet  harper:  in  that  hap  ho  seem'd 
LeB,  and  yet  mare,  than  kingly.     Opposite, 
At  a  great  palace,  from  the  lattice  forth 
Look'd  Michol,  like  a  lady  full  of  scorn 
And  sorrow.     To  behold  the  tablet  next. 
Which,  at  the  back  of  Michol,  whitely  shone, 
I  moved  me.     There,  was  storied  on  tho  rock 
The  exalted  glory  of  the  Ramon  prince. 
Whose  mighty  worth  moved  Gregory*  to  earn 
His  mighly  conqueBt,  Trajan  the  Emperor.' 

I  ritnl/nm  unti'iUfni  eScg  uutt  HMnilTid,]  "And  when  the] 

duutorGud,  sndUnhlialdaf'lI;  for  Aenina  iliooklL" 
"  And  the  angor  of  the  Lord  woa  hiudled  njE^aiDBL  Uizah 


*  Or^fVry-]    Sl  GreKory'i  pnyen  are  sold  10  have  dcllvar- 
fld  I^Jbh  ftniEi  hell,    fieo  PondUn.  Canln  jtl.  40. 

*  ^"y"  ""  'Em)"'Vr.]    Fur  Ibli  suirv,  Landina  refcn  lo 

rbBlp  Aninilui,  snd  "Fdytrau,"  of  Kogiiuid,  h;  wbam  it 
iMuI  ittm  of  BiUibnrf,  mUuir  of  lbs  Pulycnliciu  de  Ca- 
riaUom  Niq»>  In  the  iwelltb  ceoturf.  The  poasa^  In  tho 
texllOBd  nearly  II  IronAlatioo  t>ORi  ihJit  norh.  Ub.  v,  e.  &, 
Ttil  (BfglnBl  appsnn  lo  be  In  IHo  Cwxlns,  where  Ills  luldof 
Uh  Effipetor  Hadrian,  lib.  iiti.  AflSti  yuiaiiJc,  k,  t.  X. 

■LJavnnr.  HI  best  he  unsweiBd  her.  *I  bsve  no  lelnrs;'  but 
Ac  «TlDi  out  la  him. '  then  reign  no  loiter,'  he  nuneil  about, 
mat  heard  bgr  came."    LombHRb  lErers  iJso  lo  Jabsanei  IH- 

Hw  Crorlu.  cojl  90;  and  Bl.  Thiiiaaii  AqulasB  Sup^ein.. 
AoaM,  Tl,  art  S  ad  5.    Qompue  Failo  il^li  Vbsrti,  UIU- 


375 


THE  VISION. 


A  widow  at  hii  bridle  >tood.  attired. 
In  teara  uid  inatiming.    Roaud  about  Ihem  U 
Full  throng  of  knights  ;  and  ovejliead  in  goli  1 
Ttip  eagles  floated,'  straggling  with  the  wind  1 
The  wretch  appealed  amid  nil  these  to  say :       \ 
'^  Grant  vengeance,  Sire  !  for,  wo  beshrew  tbi>  Id 
My  son  IB  niurdor'd."     He  replying  seem'd: 
"  Wait  now  till  I  return."     And  ahe,  as  one 
Made  hasty  by  her  grief;  "  O  Sire  !  if  thou 
Do«  not  return  ?"— "  Where  I  am,  who  then  is, 
May  right  IhflC." — "  What  to  thee  is  other's  good. 
If  Ihoa  neglect  thy  own  7" — "  Now  comfort  thee 


At  length  h 


"Itb. 


nethw 


My  duty  be  perfc 

So  justice  willn  ;  and  pity  bids 

He,  whoae  ken  nothing  new  surreys,  prodoo 
Tliat  visible  speaking,  new  to  us  and  strange. 
The  like  not  foand  on  earth'  Fondly  1  gued 
Upon  IhoBo  pallor™  of  meek  humbloneaa. 
Shapes  yel  more  precious  for  their  artist's  saks 
When  "  Lo  1"  the  poet  whisper'd,  "  where  thi* 
(But  slock  their  pace)  a  tnnltitude  advance. 
These  to  the  lofty  stepa  shall  guide  us  on." 

Mine  eyes,  though  bent  on  view  of  novel  siflj 
Their  loved  allurement,  were  not  slow  ut  ^ara^ 

Reader  1  I  would  not  that  amazed  thou  a  ' 
Of  tliy  good  purpose,  hearing  how  just  God 
Decrees  our  debts  bo  concetlU     Ponder^  no 
The  form  of  suffering.    Think  on  what  succei 
Think  that,  at  warHl,  beyond  the  mighty  dooni 
It  cannot  posa.     "Instmctorl"  I  began, 
"  What  I  see  hither  tendiug,  bears  no  tisce 
Of  human  semblance,  nor  of  aught  beside 
That  roy  foil'd  sight  can  guess."  He  answeriii) 
"  So  courb'd  to  earth,  beneath  their  heavy  ten 
Of  torment  stoop  they,  that  mine  eye  at  first 
Struggled  as  thine.     But  look  intently  thither 
And  disentangle  with  thy  laboring  view, 
Wliat,  undomcath  those  atones,  approachoth:  US' 
E'en  now,  moyst  thou  discern  the  pangs  of  each. 


"  PoHdtr.]    T!il»  L 
Ibe  docWne  of  Pnigiuiry.    U 1 
■"Tst  can  mesl  ileath  wuWu.  \^ 

llowed  by  ImrocainlH  ajift  \b 


110-lSt  PURGATORY,  Canto  X.  i 

Chrutiaiu  and  ptoad  I  O  poor  and  wretched  at 
That,  feeble  iu  the  miud's  eye,  lean  yonr  trust 
Upon  luiEttUd  perveraenoss :  know  ye  not 

The  winded  ioBect,^  imp'd  with  nn^l  pliinied, 

Why  buoy  ye  up  nloft  your  unHpiljjed  souls? 
AbOTlivo"  then  and  ahapeless  yo  rPiiiaiii, 
Ijke  the  UDlimely  embryon  of  a  worm. 

Ail,  to  support  incmoben  I  floor  or  roof, 
For  corbel,  is  a  ligiire  Bomelimfa  seen, 
Tb&t  cnimpleB  up  its  kneea  unto  its  breast ; 
With  the  feign'd  posture,  stirring  ruth  unfeign'd 
Id  the  beholder's  fancy  ;  so  1  saw 
These  fasbion'd,  when  I  noted  well  Iheir  guiee. 


(bun  for  oi»  word.    From  Ih 

^■ell  exculpated 

In  Ron  MoniHlo  ia  a.  parasge  quoled  by 
tbe  Omerv.  paiwl.  Ill,  where  11  is  shnwn 

bBl^lhe  ilalliiB 

word  b  fbnaed,  Sir  the  sake 

D  analoey  wiib 

WD»  olben  u»<J  hy  on.  Pocl;   «ul  Ihitl  Hedl  hiniielf,  aa 

eiullBBt  Gnwk  scholar  an 

lie  writer,  bai 

allonable.  thn> 

SsS.i.Sn'S 

nildeied  as  Bome  proof  of  oai 
e  GneH  Innpuive,  Itasl  In  Iba 

OOorilD.  p.  38.  be  Soda  fsnll 

n  at  AiminUel 

elurai»l  Ibal  L  ths  lr«li« 

d'erotlo.'lh^'F 

=■,"?« 

do  Moosrehl*. 

qaoMi  a  Greet  word  fmin  ArUlolle  hlmsel 

Ob  the  olbsr 

hud,  he  ipoakg  of  s  pusage 

In  Ihe  lame  «tl 

All,  oa  aoonnt  of  llTSg 

t*£?r 

ipreled  In  two 

Convllo,  p.  73. 

Asd  fir  the  word  "  anMnUa. 

KKKS: 

^  to  OjuHlooB  Benllvei 

Ta"rf"^,a 

KM3,  ipeaki  of  It  aa  bolag  innerved  In  ibe  llbnrv  of 
«nceica  ai  Ceuna.    After  all,  Dnnle'a  Iraavrladie  of  Ore 

•  ^j,  ig  laWBTl.l    Cbllllnipvorlb.  ta|>.  vl.  f  M,  ipeaki  i 
latigt  uiililr  Ibo  welgbl  thay  bear."    And  Uirrl  Sbnjtesbii 


».4.fS- 


ildlogi  10 

ta-    ^ 

I'luny  on  WIL  aj 


Each,  HB  hia  back  was  Isdon,  came  indeed 
Or  more  or  len  conlrucled ;  and  it  ceem'd 
Ae  lie.  who  show'd  laott  palienco  In  his  look, 
Wuiliug  exclaim'il :  "  1  can  eoduni  no  more." 


CANTO    XI. 


ABGUMENT. 
L  pfayer  uttered  hy  Hi 


viull;  of  worldly  ^jdBi  ■■■!  ptAua  ant  1 

"  O  THOU  Almightj  FatheT  1'  wlio  dost  make 
Tbe  heaveiia  thy  dncUing,  not  in  bauDite  ci    "     ' 
But  that,  with  love  intenser,  there  then  vi 
Thy  prinml  effluence ;  hallaw'd  bo  thy  ni 


,aloa  b, 


Thy  miglit ;  for  worthy  humblest  fhanka  and  pi 
Ib  thy  blest  Spirit.     May  Iby  kingdom's  peace 
Come  unto  ua  ;  for  we,  unlen  it  come, 
With  all  our  elriving;.  thithm  tend  in  vain. 
Ab,  of  their  will,  the  ongela  uuto  thee 
Teuder  meet  sacrifice,  circling  thy  throne 
WiUi  loud  hoaannBB;  so  of  theirs  be  done 
By  Baiutly  men  on  earth.    Grout  us,  this  day. 
Our  dully  msnna,  wfthout  wlilch  he  roams 
Through  thJE  rough  deaert  retragrade,  wlio  moat 
Toils  to  advance  hie  eteps.     Aa  we  to  each 
Pardon  the  evil  done  us,  pardon  thou 
Benign,  and  of  our  merit  lake  no  count 
'Gainst  the  old  adversary,  prove  tiiou  not 
Our  virtue,  easily  subdued  ;  but  free 
From  his  inoitemenla,  and  defeat  hia  wiles. 
Thin  last  petition,  dearest  Lord  I  is  made 
Not  for  ounelvpB  ;  eince  that  were  needless  n 
But  for  their  Bakee  n-ho  aflsr  lu  remain." 

Thus  for  themselvEB  and  us  good  speed  implon 
Those  spirits  went  bDuoath  a  weight  like  that 

I  O  limi  ^Imighly  tlitlicr.]    TlMi  finl  faut  lines  ai 
rowed  by  Paid,  Mon.  Magg,,  c.  vl, 
Duileln  Ills  'Oeda'bHingBln  rei 


Ai 


Earl,.  M  l.i«  l""^k  Wiifl  lati 


XhBS.  PTBGATORY,  Canto  XL  279 

Wo  Bomctimee  feel  iu  dieams ;  all,  Bore  beBOt. 
But  with  unequal  anguish  ;  w«ariod  all ; 
Bound  the  fiist  circuit ;  purging  as  Ihoy  go 
The  world's  grosa  darkness  off:     In  our  behoof 
ir  there  vows  still  be  ofler'di  what  can  hare 
For  Ihem  be  vow'd  and  done  by  such,  whose  wills 
Hare  root  of  goodness  in  them!'     Well  l)eBeerafl 
Thai  we  shoiiiil  help  them  wash  away  the  Btiuns 
They  carried  bonce ;  that  bd,  made  pure  and  li^t. 
They  may  spring  upward  to  (he  starry  qiheree. 

"  Ah !  so  may  mercy-temper'd  jUBtice  rid 
Tour  burdens  speedily ;  that  ye  have  power 
To  stretch  your  wing,  which  e^en  to  your  desire 
Shall  lift  you ;  as  ye  ahow  hb  on  which  hajvd 
Toward  the  ladder  leads  tlie  ahorteat  way. 
And  if  there  be  mora  paxsages  ihaii  one, 
Inatnict  ub  of  that  eaeicst  to  aHcetid : 
I'or  this  man,  who  comes  with  me,  and  bears  yet 
Tiie  charge  of  flc>shly  raimont  Adam  left  )iim, 
Deepito  his  better  will,  but  slowly  mounts." 
From  whom  the  answer  eame  unto  these  words. 
Which  my  guide  spake,  appeared  not ;  hut 'twas  said : 
"  Along  the  bank  to  rightword  come  with  lis ; 
And  ye  shall  find  a  pass  (hat  mocks  not  toil 
Of  living  man  to  climb;  and  were  it  not 
That  I  am  hinder'd  by  the  rock,  wherewith 
Thia  arrogant  neck  is  tamed,  wheucB  needs  I  stoop 
My  visage  to  the  ground  ;  him,  who  yet  lives, 
Whosename  thou  apeak'st  not,  him  I  fain  would  view; 
To  mark  if  e'er  I  knew  liim,  and  to  ciave 
His  ply  for  the  fardel  that  I  bear. 
I  was  of  Latium  f  of  a  Tuscan  bom, 
A  mighty  one :  Aldobruidesco's  name, 
My  sire's,  1  know  not  if  ye  e'er  have  hoard. 
My  old  blood  and  forefathera'  gallant  deeds 
Made  me  bo  haughty,  that  I  clean  forgot 
The  common  mother ;  aiul  to  such  eices 


MA  at,  (hat  there  are  no  Dlhrn  on  earth  whiiie  pnyen  avail 
la  ibnieB  Ibm  pslai  of  itiose  who  ars  La  Puipuloiy. 

>  /  «(  rf  LMItii.i  OmlHrto,  Ills  soa  of  Gugllelino  Aldo- 
tnndeeeo.  CooBl  of  Banraflore,  In  Ilie  isniuny  of  aioaas. 
HlLuroEiinee  iirovokirf  hli  connuymon  m  such  a  pllth  of 
rarf  a^ml  huo,  Uial  he  wu  niunlered  liy  tkoin  al  Cua< 


I       pogaaaco. 


380  THE  VISION.  IW^3. 

Each  child  iu  Uumpaguolico,  can  tell. 
I  am  Ombeiin:  uo(  me,  aaly,  pride 
Ilath  injiupcl,  but  my  kindtpd  all  involved 
lu  mkcluGf  wilh  lier.     Here  my  lot  ordains 
Undi^r  this  wvigbL  to  gronn,  tUl  I  appease 
God's  angry  joaljce,  since  I  did  It  not 
Aiooeg  the  hving,  hero  amoDg  the  dead.*^ 

LiBtemng'  I  bent  my  viaago  down :  and  one 
(Not  he  who  spake)  twiated  beaealh  the  weight 
That  nT?ed  him,  aaw  me,  knew  me  straight,  and 
noldinglJs  eyea  with  difficulty  fii'd  tcatl'd  ; 

Intent  upou  mo,  stooping  oa  I  went 
Compaiiiou  of  their  way-     "  O  !"  I  exolaini'd, 
"  An  thou  not  Oderigi'?'  art  not  thou 
Agobbio'n  glory,  glory  cf  that  art 
Which  they  of  Patie  c&U  the  liraaer'a  skill  7" 

"  Brother  !"  said  he,  "  with  liuls.  Ihut  gayer  amile. 
Bologniaii  FroncoV  pencil  lioea  the  leavea. 
Hia  all  the  honor  now  ;  my  light  obacured. 
In  Irufli,  I  had  not  hoan  thus  courteous  to  him 
The  while  I  lived,  through  eagemeaa  of  zeal 
For  Ihal  pre-crainenoe  my  heart  waa  bent  on. 
Here,  of  such  pride,  tbo  forfeiture  in  paid.* 
Nor  were  I  even  here,  if,  able  atill 
To  Bin,  I  had  not  (nm'd  me  nnto  God. 
O  powera  of  man !  bow  vain  your  glory,  nlpp'd 
E^en  in  its  height  of  verdure,  if  an  age 
I*Bs  bright  Bucceed  not.'     Cimabui-'  thought 

1  rydtrigt.]    The  ILInnilnaloT,  or  ndolDnire  ]Mlnler,  ■  (rlend 


PreaMlB  oIb,  che  qi 


W-B«.  PCBGATORV,  Cab™  XI. 

To  lord  it  over  painting'B  field  ;  and  now 
The  cry  is  GioClo's,'  and  his  name  eclipond. 
Tbus  balh  one  Guido  from  the  other*  euatch'd 


buLy  a  perlqd  the  Anti  ajifl  wore  oncoui^od  la  IuLT'  tlii 
BdAUU  were  dEscoTereil  by  Clniabuc.  wbLI«  he  wu  leadlaf 
■beep  thr  hl>  Ikltaei  in  the  neighbathood  oT  Floreace,  and 

Bobwt  King  of  Naplei ;  and  enjoied  Iho  »m:lBly  Mil  frtand- 
ihlp  oT  DanLe.  wboae  li^neu  be  baa  tiaonaiUUM  U>  patUfiitf. 
Be  died  la  1336,  at  the  nge  of  BO. 

■  0*i  OuJa/rgn  Ui  Mln-.]    RnMo  CiiTnlHBIl,  Ibe  Mead 
oroar  Feet,  (hb  He[l.  Canlo  i.  S9,)  had  eclipsed  the  UIBnij 

we  IluiU  meet  wllh  la  Ibe  iwenly-iiilb  Canto,  and  of  whom 
finpieDl  and  taoaonlile  meallnD  la  inHde  bynnt FoM In  hia 

In  Faatoaal,  on  Uv  Bold^nlaB  writen,  lorn.  Iv,  p.  SuT  Bh 

GolBlcelU'i  poems  lo  be  tijund  la  Alliiccl'i  ColUictlao,  Ihaa 
TlnbnirhL  wbo  lelli  ni  he  had  bo(  won  il.  luppoeed.    Prom 
o  ptfl  Abi^larlT 


ax  BoDul  infonni  lu 
d'Aieaiu,  p.  171.  1 
io  MS.,  an  ulil  to  b> 


>n  MS.  3213.  lo  CI 
}avBlcaaIl'a  wrillngi,  hitherto 


Che  Wa,  noiini  •ignote. 

VolH  dl  lei,  come  stcb  TUBel  dello. 

Fare  U  del  pdrfttLo. 

II.  JVqnrfi.  1661,  p.3:S. 


Ed  la  Tcr  leL  perLa  ogai  venule. 
By  proor,  Id  Ihls  bUnd  mortnl  wcr 


Blened  the  Bn!,  that  Isbibs  Ihii  weight  below 

Enllm,  wllbonl  n  umch  of  wroth  or  pain. 
Now  then  what  leaion  halh  thy  heart  lo  >lgh. 
That  ahoDld  be  glad,  lu  for  deilie  fhlHU'd, 
JThal  God.  oor  soToioIgn,  will'd 


E  piA^k  preEii  per  Dlo>  ikiii  reBto ; 

SpnglliUvl  dl  qneilB  veili  Erami. 
Dh  chff  v<A  Hie  per  mflt^'i  ncbiaiii). 
Ctafl  I'diUDO  per  dolnr  mon  b  dUpen. 


Itosque  Hpene 

Mleai.  X4ix.  JV«mJ>.  1611,  |^ 
"Gomftvl  thee,  cDfnfart  Ihee."  eiclidinelli  Lore; 
Ami  ntj  by  Ihy  God  adjnres  Ihee  "  nat :" 


Among  Tou  ye  have  bobd  h  (hce 
rtl  fli;in  fS^li'eai 


1^1 
I 


h 


g0b  100.  PURGATORY,  Canto  XI.  S83 

Of  worldly  fame  is  but  a  blast  of  wind, 

That  blows  from  diverse  points,  and  shifts  its  name, 


To  the  bine  wave,  I  liken  her,  and  sky, 

All  colOT  that  with  pink  and  crimson  glows, 

Gold,  silver,  and  rich  stones :  nay,  lovelier  grows 

E'en  love  himself,  when  she  is  standing  by. 
She  passeth  on  so  gracious  and  so  mild,  i  ■ 

One's  pride  is  quench'd.  and  one  of  sick  is  well :  I ', 

And  they  believe,  who  firom  the  faith  did  err ; 
And  none  may  near  her  come  by  harm  defiled.  , 

A  mightier  viitne  have  I  yet  to  tell ;  ,  I 

No  man  may  think  of  evil,  seeing  her.  j: 

The  two  following  sonnets  of  Gnido  Ca  valcanti  may  enable  j  I 

the  reader  to  form  some  judgment  whether  Dante  had  snfll-  \\ 

rlent  reason  for  preferring  him  to  his  predecessor,  Guinicellt 

lo  teroo  che  la  mia  dlsawentnra 

Non  faccia  si  ch'  io  dice  io  mi  dispero, 

Perb  ch'  io  sento  nel  cor  an  pensero, 

Che  fa  tremar  la  mente  di  panra. 
E  par  ch'  ei  dica :  Amor  non  t'assicura 

In  guisa  che  tu  possa  di  leggiero 

Alia  tua  donna  si  contare  ii  vero, 

Che  morte  non  ti  ponga  in  sua  figure. 
Delia  gran  dogiia,  che  I'anima  sente, 

Si  parte  dailo  core  un  tal  sospiro 

Che  va  dicendo :  spiritei  fuggite ; 
Allor  null'  uom,  che  sia  pietoso,  mlro; 

Che  consolasse  mia  vita  dolente,  i ! 

Dicendo :  spiritei  non  vi  partite. 

Jlneedota  lAteraria  ez  MSS.  Codicihut  eruta. 

Ediz.  Koma,  (no  year,)  v.  iii.  p.  452.  i 

I  fear  lest  my  mischance  may  so  prevail,  j 

That  it  may  make  me  of  myself  deMpiiir.  i ' 

For,  my  heart  searching,  I  discover  there  !| 

A  thought  that  makes  the  mind  with  terror  quail. 

It  says,  meseemeth,  "  Love  shall  not  avail 
To  strengthen  thee  so  much,  that  thou  shalt  dare 


j! 

i' 


Tell  her,  thou  lovcst,  thy  passion  or  thy  pniycr,  , 

To  save  from  power  of  death  thy  visage  pale."  i 

Through  the  dread  sorrow  that  o'crwliolnis  my  soul,  ,\ 

There  issues  from  my  l)osom  surh  a  sigh,  I  • 

As  passeth,  crying ;  "  Spirits,  flee  away."  j 

And  then,  when  I  am  fainting  in  my  dole,  ,  \ 

No  man  so  merciful  there  standeth  by,  >! 
To  comfort  me,  and  answer,  "  Spirits,  stay." 

BeltA  di  donna,  e  di  saccento  core, 

E  cavalieri  arniati,  cho  sinn  genti, 

Cantar  d'angelll,  e  ragionar  d'aniorc, 

Adorni  legnl  in  mnr,  rorti  e  correntl : 
Aria  Serena,  quando  appar  I'albore, 

E  bianca  neve  sconder  sonza  venti, 

Rivera  d'acqua,  e  prato  d'ognl  fiore, 

On),  e  argento,  azurro  In  ornament! : 
Cib  che  pub  la  beltate,  c  la  valenza 

Delia  mia  donna  in  suo  gentil  coragglo, 

Par  che  rassembra  vile  a  chl  do  guarda. 


THE  VISION. 


l-JN, 


Shifting  the  point  it  blows  from.    Shalt  thou  IB 

Live  in  the  mouthii  of  mankiad,  if  (by  flesh 

Part  ahriveli'd  from  thee,  than  if  thou  haiist  died 

Before  the  coral  and  the  pap  Wfn  left ; 

Or  e'er  rome  thousand  years  have  pan'd 

Is,  to  eternity  compared,  a  space 

Briefei  than  is  the  twinkling  of  an  eye 

To  the  heaven's  sjowest  orb.     He  there,  who  tr 

So  leisurely  before  me,  far  and  wide 

Through  Tuscany  cesoiinded  once  ;  and  nti 

Is  in  SienuB  scarce  with  whiqiers  named  : 

There  was  he  sovereign,  when  destruction  caug 

The  maddening  rage  of  Florence,  in  that  day 

Proud  OS  she  now  is  loathsome.     Your  rt 

le  as  the  herb,  whose  fane  doth  come  and 

A»d  Ilia  might  withers  it,  by  whom  it  spr 

Crude  from  Ihe  lap  of  earth."     I  thus  to 

"  True  HTo  thy  sayings ;  to  my  heart  Lhey  breathe 

The  kindly  spirit  of  meekne«,  and  aUay 

What  tumors"  rankle  there.     But  who  is  he,    [plied. 

Of  whom  tliou  spakeat  but  nowl"     "Tlua,"  he  ro- 

"  Is  Proveiizuno.    He  la  here,  became  V 

He  rcacliM,  with  grasp  presiunptuous,  at  Iho  away  H 

Of  all  Sienna.     Thus  he  still  hath  gone,  ^ 


I'll 

AUgU     ^M 


to  ba  pli]i  d'ogoL  lUun.  CO 


e  niagglo, 


Iji  Bella  JVau  (  mm  .fstiCilg.    Edli.  Fir.,  ITIS,  p.  ISB. 
WliBlso  ii  fkit  In  lady'9  Ace  or  mind. 
And  gsnlle  kniehiB  capiulaga'd  and  gay, 

AndgBlLanl  bark)  Ibal  tul  the  watery  way; 
The  wtille  innw  felUne  williDal  uy  wtndi 

Tbe clDodleu sky stbceok nC enrly  dny. 
The  cryim]  ■inmii,  wKk  flower)  Ihe  meadow  Uaei 

eilvM,  and  irold,  ■T'' ' 


Not  alow  lo  good  la 


liaeil^^H 


eUcal  'lEpulBLion,    Olhera  have  elianrdly  flinilBd  Ihul  \i 
bnJm,    LqmtuinlS  iloutiU  whelbcr  It  »  ddi  apokea  ^[enenilly 


aww.^r«wlJU 


]i5-143.  PURGATORY,  Canto  XII.  285 

ThuB  goeth  never-resting,  since  he  died. 
Such  is  the  acqcuttance  rendered  buck  of  him, 
Who,  in  the  mortal  life,  too  much  hath  dared." 
I  then :  **  If  soul,  that  to  life's  verge  delays 
Repentance,  linger  in  that  lower  space, 
Nor  hither  momit,  (unless  good  prayers  befriend) 
Or  ever'  time,  long  as  it  lived,  be  past ; 
How  chanced  admittance  was  vouchsafed  to  him  7** 
When  at  his  glory's  topmost  height,"  said  he. 
Respect  of  dignity  all  cast  aside, 
Freely  he  fix'd  him  on  Sienna's  plain, 
A  suitor^  to  redeem  his  suffering  friend, 
Who  languish'd  in  the  prison-house  of  Charles ; 
Nor,  for  his  sake,  refused  through  every  vein 
To  tremble.     More  I  will  not  say  ;  and  dark, 
I  know,  my  words  are  ;  but  thy  neighbors  soon' 
Shall  help  thee  to  a  comment  on  the  text. 
Tliis  is  the  work,  that  from  these  limits  freed  him.'* 


CANTO  XII 

ARGUMENT. 

Dante  being  desired  by  Vir^l  to  look  down  on  the  groond 
which  they  are  treading,  observes  that  it  is  wrought  over 

1  Or  ever.]  This  line  was  omitted  in  the  former  editions,  as 
Mr.  Lyell  has  pointed  out  to  me. 

>  A  suitor.]  Provenzano  Salvani  hnnibled  himself  so  fkr 
for  the  sake  of  one  of  his  friends,  who  was  detained  in  cap- 
tivity by  Charles  I.  of  t^icily,  as  personally  to  supplicate  the 
people  of  8iunna  to  contribute  the  sum  required  liy  the  king 
for  his  ransom  :  and  this  act  of  self-aljasemcnt  atoned  for  his 
general  ambition  and  pride.  He  fell  in  the  battle  of  Vald 
*Elsa,  wherein  the  Florentines  discomfited  the  Siennoso  in 
June,  12G9.  G.  Villani  relates  some  curious  particulars  of  his 
fate.  "  Messer  Provenzano  Salvani,  the  lord  and  conductor 
of  the  army,  was  taken,  and  his  head  cut  off  and  carried 
through  all  the  camp  fixed  upon  a  lance.  And  well  was  ac- 
complished the  prophecy  and  revelation  made  to  him  by  the 
Devil  by  way  of  witchcraft,  but  he  understood  it  not;  for 
having  compelled  him  to  answer  how  ho  should  succeed  in 
the  said  engagement,  he  told  him  iyingly:  'Thou  shall  go, 
fight,  conquer  not,  die  in  the  battle,  and  thy  head  shall  be  the 
highest  in  the  camp.'  And  he  thought  to  have  the  victory, 
and  from  these  woi'ds  thought  to  remain  master  of  all,  and 
noted  not  the  fallacy,  where  he  said  '  conquer  not,  die.'  And 
therefore  it  is  great  folly  to  trust  such  counsel  as  that  of  the 
Devil."    Lib.  vii.  cap.  3J. 

*  7%y  neighbors  soon.]  "  Thou  wilt  know  in  the  time  of 
thy  banishment,  which  is  near  at  hand,  what  it  is  to  solicit 
favors  of  others,  and  '  tremble  through  every  vein,'  lost  they 
should  be  rel'u  ed  thee." 


MhS^"u 


>I  by  Bi 


WiTu  equal  pacp,  as  oxen  hi  tlie  yoke, 
I,  witli  that  ladsu  Bpliil,  journey'd  an, 
Lang  OS  Iho  mild  iOBtractOT  Bulfei'd  me  ; 
But,  wlicn  he  bade  me  quit  lum,  and  proceed, 
(For  "  Here,"  said  lie,  "  belioovea  with  Bail  and  oan 
Eacli  mao,  as  beet  he  may,  pueh  on  bla  bark") 
ll]iri|;ht,  ub  une  diBpoaeil  fur  ap«ed,  I  rused 
My  body,  Blill  iu  thought  snbmiesive  bow'd. 

I  now  my  leader'a  track  not  loth  purened; 
And  rach  had  shown  how  Ugtit  we  fared  along, 
Whrii  IliuB  ha  wara'd  me;  "Bend  thine  eyeidght 
For  iliou,  to  ease  the  way,  shall  find  it  good     [down; 
To  ruminate  the  bed  beuealh  Uiy  teet.''^ 

As,  in  memorial  of  the  buried,  drawn 
Upon  eartli-level  tombe,  the  Bcnlpturad  forra 
Of  what  woa  once,  appeius,  (at  sight  wheroof 
Teaw  ofien  stream  fortli,  by  raniambrance  waked, 
Wlioee  aaored  atiugs  tlie  piteous  often  feelj 
So  naw  I  there,  but  with  more  curious  skill 
or  imrtrailure  o'erwronght,  whsle'er  of  space 
From  forlli  the  mountsin  sCretclivs.     On  one  poll 


Him 


.  bchrlc 


.  all  ci 


[.  lightening  fall  from  heaven : 
On  (ho  other  side,  with  boU  celestial  pierced, 
BriorGua ;  cumbering  earth  he  lay,  throogh  dint 
Of  mortal  ice-stroke.     The  Thymbneun  god,' 
With  Mare,>  I  saw,  and  Pallas,  round  theh  sire, 
ArmM  still,  and  gazing  on  the  giantd^  limbs 
Btrewn  o'er  the  ethereal  field     Nimrod  I  si 


33-08.  PURGATORY.  C*nto  Xn.  287 

O  Niobe !  in  what  a  Iranne  of  wo 
Tliee  I  behelil,  upon  llint  highway  drawn, 
SevcD  Boat  DD  eithoT  side  ihee  «lain.    O  titui  I 
How  ghngtly  didst  thou  look,  ou  thine  own  ewoid 
Expiring,  in  Gilboa,  from  that  hour 
Ne'er  viaited  with  rain  &oin  heaven,  or  dew. 

O  tond  Arachne  !  theo  I  also  saw, 
Half  BjBdBr  now,  in  anguish,  crawling  up 
The  nnfiniah'd  web  thou  wcavedet  to  thy  bane. 

0  Kehoboain  !'  here  Ihy  shape  dolh  aoem 
Low'ring  no  more  dejianca  ;  but  fear-sniote. 
With  none  to  chsee  him,  in  hie  chariot  whirl'tj. 

Was  shown  beiiide  upon  the  solid  floor, 
How  de^  Alcmieon''  forced  his  mother  rate 
That  omament,  in  evil  hour  received : 
How,  in  the  temple,  on  Sennacherib^  fell 
His  eons,  and  how  a  corpee  they  leR  him  there. 
Was  shown  the  scalh,  and  cruel  mangling  made 
By  Tomyris*  on  Cyrus,  when  she  cried, 
"  Blood  Ibou  didst  thint  for :  take  Ihy  M  of  hlood." 
Was  shonn  how  routed  in  the  battle  fled 
The  AssyrianB,  Holofemea'  slain,  and  e'en 
The  relics  of  the  carnage.     Troy  I  maik'd. 
In  ashea  and  in  caverns.     Oh'  1  how  follea. 
How  abject,  Ilion,  was  thy  eemhlauce  there. 

What  niaaler  of  iho  pencil  or  the  style'         [made 
Hod  traced  the  shades  and  lines,  that  might  have 
The  Bubtleet  workman  wonder?    Dead,  the  dead; 
The  living  seem'd  alive:  with  clearer  view, 
Elis  eye  beheld  not,  who  behtld  tlie  truth, 
Than  mine  what  I  did  tread  on,  whUe  I  went 
Low  bending.     Now  swell  out,  and  with  stiff  necka 
Paa  on,  ye  sons  of  Eve !  veil  not  your  looks. 
Lest  Ihay  descry  the  ovil  of  your  path. 

1  noted  not  (so  busied  was  my  thought) 
How  much  we  bow  liad  circled  of  the  mount ; 

Tvint,  *;"rilU.  vl,  AV;  Bnit  HoioDI,  Od,ri.325. 

rjl.|    «  Kings.  III.  37. 
*  TtnqFFil,]    Cajjot  CvrtampuUilnin  In  olrem  liumanotiui- 
gnliw  replcuun  conjici  Bfglnii  jnUui  pani  hac  eiprnbntinnq 
enidetilalla,  Ibaii  le,  iniiiill,  nnKUlne  quaio  lUisU,  cujuxiue 


By  model,  or  by  nhadliiK 


sea  THE  VISION.  69-104. 

And  of  hifl  coDne  yet  axaie  the  sun  bud  spent; 
When  he,  who  with  Btill  wakeful  caution  went. 

Admonieh'd :  "  Ruwe  thou  op  Ihy  head !  for  know 
Time  'a  not  now  fur  slow  Buspcnae.     Behold. 
That  way,  an  tingel  husting  towards  us.     Jm, 
Where  du!y  tl.e  sixth  handmaid'  doth  relurn 
From  eervioe  ou  ttie  day.     Wear  thon,  in  look 
And  gesture,  aeemly  giace  of  revereot  awe ; 
That  gltidly  he  may  forwird  oB  aloR. 
Consider  Uiat  (his  day  ne'er  dawns  again." 

Time's  Iobb  he  had  ao  often  wam'd  me  'gainst, 
I  oould  not  mifia  the  scope  at  which  he  aim'd. 

Tlie  goodly  shape  approach'd  us,  snowy  white 
In  vesture,  and  with  viaagB  casting  streama 
Of  Iremuloiia  luslre  like  Ihe  matin  star. 
His  anns  he  opea'd,  then  hia  wioga ;  and  spake : 
"  Onward  '.  the  steps,  Ijeliold,  are  near  ;  and  now 
The  asceut  m  without  difficulty  gain'd." 

A  scanty  few  are  they,  who,  when  they  heat 
Such  tidiog«,  hasten.      O,  ye  race  of  men  ! 
Thougli  bom  to  aou,  why  suffer  ye  a  wind 
fki  slight  to  baffle  ye  ?      He  led  us  on 
Where  the  rock  parted  ;  here,  ugaiust  my  front. 
Did  heat  his  wiugs ;  then  promised  I  should  fare 

That  steep,  upon  whose  hrow  the  chapel  staude,* 
(O'er  Rubaconte,  lookin?  lordly  down 
On  the  well-guided  city*)  up  the  right 
The  impetuous  rise  is  broken  hy  the  steps 
Carved  ia  that  old  and  rimplo  age,  when  still 
The  registry*  and  label  rested  safe  : 
Thus  is  the  acclivity  relieved,  which  here. 
Precipitous,  from  Ihe  oilier  circuit  falls: 
But,  on  each  hand,  the  tall  clilf  pressea  cloae. 

As,  entering,  there  we  tuni'd,  voices,  iu  strain 
Ineflable,  mng ;  "  Blessed'  are  the  poor 

•  ne  aiilh  haiidnuiiit.]    Compare  Culo  oil.  118. 

Is  ctnesed  by  IliF  bridge  ttubacanls,  »  ratleS  bam  Hsndr 
"   '  'da  Mandeltn,  at  HUOD,  ohief  maelalraEo  of  Flos- 

hom  the  tiridge  wu  foUDitod  la  liOl..    8e«  G.  Vlf- 


I0S-1S9. 


PURGATORY.  Canto  XIII. 


In  spirit"    All  1  haw  hi  unlike  to  these 

Tbo  Btraita  of  hell :  here  son^  (d  ualier  ub, 

There  Bhrieks  of  wo.     We  climb  Ihe  lioly  Blaira : 

And  lighter  to  myaelf  by  far  I  seem'd 

Than  on  die  plnin  before ;  whence  thus  I  spake : 

■'  Say,  master,  ot  what  heavy  thing  have  I 

Been  lighteii'd  ;  that  scarce  aaght  tbe  eense  of  Itril 

Afleots  mo  jonnieyinB  7"  ^Ho  in  few  repUad: 

"  When  Bio'«  broad  cTiaracteiB,'  that  yet  renimn 

Upon  thy  teiQplee,  though  weU  nigh  eSuced, 

Shall  be,  as  one  ia,  all  clean  razed  out ; 

Thea  shall  thy  feet  by  heartineBa  of  will 

Be  so  o'ercome,  they  not  aloae  shall  feel 

No  sBDEe  of  labor,  hut  delight  much  mora 

Shall  wait  them,  urged  along  their  upward  way." 

Then  like  to  one,  upon  whose  bead  ia  placed 
Somewhat  he  deems  not  of,  bat  from  the  becks 
Of  others,  as  they  pass  him  by ;  his  hand 
Lends  therefore  help  to  ai«ure  him,  Bearcbes,  finds, 
And  well  performe  nuch  office  as  the  eye 
Want*  power  to  execute ;  bo  stretching  forth 
The  fingeni  of  my  light  hand,  did  I  find 
Six  only  of  the  letters,  which  bis  eword. 
Who  bare  the  keys,  had  traced  upon  my  brow. 
The  leader,  as  he  mark'd  mine  action,  smUed. 


CANTO    XIII. 


ARGUMENT. 

isr;is'.Siy=;?.".s- 

mnm 

riBht.  a 

IIW 

hecauM 

We  leacb'd  the  summit  of  the  eca 

e,  and  stood 

Upon  the  second  buttrosa  of  that  mo 

nt 

Whieh  healeth  liim  who  cUmbB.     A 

Like  to  the  former,  girdles  round  the 

hill 

Save  that  its  arch,  with  sweep  Icbb  a 

mpl- 

bendB. 

Shadow,  nor  image  there,  is  seen 

mooth 

prUto,  IhsrhLeTof  them,  was  ci^lateil- 


390  THE  VISION.  7-*l. 

The  rainput  and  the  patli,  le&ectiag  nought 
Bat  the  rocfa'a  suileu  I  me.  ''  U  hare  we  wait. 
For  some  lo  queslion,"  aaid  the  bard.  '•  I  feu 
Out  elioico  may  huply  meat  too  long  dalay." 

Tlien  fiiodly  upon  the  sun  bis  eyas 
He  fosteu'd  (  made  hie  light  the  cantral  point 

"  O  pleaeanl  light,  my  coafidanca  and  hopo  1 
Cooduut  la  thou,"  he  cried,  "  on  this  new  way. 
Where  uow  I  vaoture  ;  teadio}^  lo  the  bourn 
We  seek.     The  univaiBal  world  to  thee 
Owes  warmth  and  lustra.     If  do  other  cause 
Forhtdi  thy  beams  ehoidd  aver  be  oar  guide." 

Far,  as  is  menaured  for  a.  uule  on  eocth. 
In  brief  apace  had  we-  jonmey'd ;  such  prompt  vdll 
Impeird  i  »nd  iowarda  na  flying,  nan  were  heajnl 
Spirits  invisible,  who  conrleously 
Unto  love's  table  bada  the  welcome  gueet. 
The  vpice,  that  iirat  Sew  by,  call'd  forth  aloud, 
"  Thay  have  no  wine  ;'"  so  on  behinil  us  paes'd, 
Those  aounds  reiterating,  net  yet  loet 
In  the  faiut  distance,  when  another  oaine 


Drying,  '■ 
Winged  il 


!B  fleet  way.     "O  father!"  I  exclaim'd, 
'^  What  tougnaa  are  theaa  ?"  and  as  I  queatioa'd,  lo  - 
A  third  axcluming,  "  Love  ye  Lhoso  have  "wron^d 
you."'  {Bcourie' 

"  This    circuit,"    aaid    my   teachar,    "  knota    the 
For  envy ;  and  tho  cords  are  tbarafore  drawn 
By  charity'B  correcting  hand.     The  curb 
Is  of  a  harsher  sound  ;  as  (hou  shalt  hear 
(If  I  deem  rightly)  arc  thou  reach  the  pass, 
Whero  pardon  sets  them  free.     But  hx  thine  eyes 
Intently  through  the  eir ;  and  tbou  shall  sec 
A  multitude  before  tbea  aealod,  each 
Along  the  shelving  grot,"     Then  mora  than  erst 

I  ff.)   "UnloM  there t*iomenrBenlnBco«rilyrorlrayelliBg 
by  niKhl,  Iho  daj-llsht  should  be  preferied  for  thai  pnrpaje," 

fia  aiB  KtcneH  In  tii  an  IssUnce  of  chacln. 
>  Orutrj.i    Alluding  (ohia  lUcniishlp  irilb  PfMe*- 
.  ...._  ...  ..._.  i._.  -i„,^-d  jrg^]    "Bdi  [lay  or — 


PURGATOKT,  Cjmto  XUI. 


SQI 


I  oped  mine  eyee  j  before  me  viow'il ;  and  saw 
Shadows  iritli  ganneiils  dark  as  wiia  Oie  rack ; 
And  when  we  pa»'d  a  liltle  fortb,  I  heunl 
A  crying;  "  BleHsed  Mary  '.  pray  for  as, 
Micbuel  and  Peter!  all  ye  saint ly  iiost  1" 

I  do  not  think  there  walks  on  eart))  [hie  day 
Man  sn  remorseless,  that  he  had  not  yeam'd 
With  pity  at  tbe  sight  that  next  I  saw. 
Mine  eyes  a  load  of  sorrow  teem'd,  when  now 
I  stood  so  near  them,  that  their  semhlancsi 
Cnmo  clearly  to  my  view.     Of  Hackelolh  vile 
Tlieir  covering  seem'd  ;  and,  on  his  shoulder,  one 
Did  stuy  another,  leaning ;  and  all  leon'd 
Against  the  cliff.     B'ea  tlins  Iho  blind  and  poor, 
Near  the  confesaonals,  to  crave  an  alms, 
StBBd,  each  hia  head  upon  his  fallow'B  snuk  ; 
So  nunt  to  stir  compassion,  not  by  sound 
Of  wards  alone,  but  that  winch  moves  not  less, 
The  sight  of  misery.     And  as  nevoi  beam 
Of  noon-day  visiteth  the  eyeleffi  man, 
E'en  so  was  heaven  a  niggard  onto  these 
Of  bis  fair  light:  for,  through  tbe  orbs  of  ally 
A  thread  of  wire,  impiercingj  kcuts  them  up. 
As  for  the  taming  of  a  haggard  hawk. 

It  were  a  wrong,  methought,  to  pass  and  look 
On  alfaeiB,  yet  myself  the  while  unseen. 
To  my  eage  conneal  Iherefore  did  I  turn. 
He  knew  tbe  meanhig  of  the  mute  appeal, 
Nor  waited  for  my  queiitiouing,  but  said : 
"  ^ak  j  and  be  brief,  bo  subtilo  in  tliy  worda." 

On  that  part  of  the  cornice,  whence  no  rim 
Engarlands  its  steep  fall,  did  Virgil  come  ; 
On  the  other  side  uie  were  tho  spirits,  their  cheeks 
Bathing  devont  with  penitential  tears, 
That  through  the  dread  impaietueiil  foroed  a  way. 

I  tura'd  me  to  them,  and  "  U  nhades '."  said  I, 
"  AMired  that  to  your  eyes  unveii'd  shall  shine 
The  lofty  light,  sole  object  of  your  wish. 
So  mayheavSn's  grace'  clear  whatHoo'er  of  foam 


«-J 


This  !■  a  Hue  inonl,  snd  finely  eiprennd.    t?Blera  It 

nmdily  be  by  an  iBflnoiieo  flrom  sbomi.  lbs  mind  Ineir 
BctlVeely  nna  clearly.  '-  If  ye  wUl  do  Ug  wUI,  ye  gbal 
of  Chs  doculDe." 


^ 


392  THE  VISION.  ( 

Floala  turbid  on  Ihe  consciencei  (hat  Uiencefoi 

Tho  stream  of  mioil  roll  lioipid  ftom  ila  aouroB 

Ab  ye  declare  (for  «>  shall  ye  impart 

A  Iwoa  I  daarly  priie)  if  any  boqI 

Of  Lstiimi  dwell  among  ye ;  and  perchaoco 

That  soui  may  pmfil,  if  I  learn  so  mnch." 


"My  hi 


::ityj     Any,  thon 
hved  a  stranger  in  Italia' 
beard  I  answering, 
oaward  come  some  apace 


lay, 


ippear 


m  whence  I  stoo 

Especlance.     Ask  ye  howl     Tho  ehni  waa  rt 

As  in  one  reft  of  sight     "  Spirit,"  said  I, 

"  Who  for  thy  rise  art  tntoring.  (if  thou  bo 

That  which  didst  answer  to  me)  ot  by  place, 

Or  name,  disclose  thyself,  that  I  may  know  theA.*! 

"  I  wEiB,"  it  anawer'd,  "  of  Sienna :  here 
I  cleanse  away  with  these  the  evil  life, 
Soliciting  with  tears  that  Ho,  who  is, 
Vouchsafe  him  to  us.     Though  Sapia'  oamed. 
In  sapience  I  excoU'd  not;  gadder  far 
Of  other's  hurt,  thau  of  the  good  befell  a 
That  tboa  mayat  own  I  dow  deceiTS  thee  not. 
Hear,  if  my  folly  w 
When  now  my  years  sloped  waning  down  the  as 
It  so  bechanced,  my  follow-citiieua 
Near  CoUe  met  their  enemies  in  the  fiett  , 
And  I  pray'd  God  to  grant  what  He  had  wiU'd.* 
There  were  thoy  vanquish'd,  and  belock  then 
Unto  the  bitter  passages  of  Sight. 
I  raarlt'd  the  hunt ;  and  waxing  out  of  bounds 
In  gladnuBB,  lifted  up  my  shameless  brow, 
And,  like  the  merlin'  cheated  by  a  gleam. 


Bjiio.]    AlBdygfaaDB 
HI  uvDilayed  At  a  defeat 


l-lg^dBaanl.," 

a  Jnd  limly'd  God  !o  ffnml  ujiol  Ha  iad  loWJ.J  Thiu  ba 
cunnlrynisB  ibouid  be  defsaled  in  tnitle. 

'  Till  mrrtai.]  The  glory  of  (be  moillD  la,  tbal  httyint 
buea  ^duFHJ  by  c  gleam  of  Une  wealbcr  In  Ihe  ninUr  10 
oicBpa  from  hia  niasler,  he  wai  soon  oppreueil  hy  Itae  Mpw 


1W-11S. 


PURGATORY,  Camto  XIII. 


Cried,  '  II  iB  over.     Haaven !  I  fear  Ihea  not ' 

Upon  my  ver^  of  life  1  wishM  for  peaco 

With  God ;  nor  yet  repentanco  hud  supplied 

WliBt  I  did  lack  of  duty,  wivre  it  not 

The  hermit  Pieni,'  loucb'd  with  chuity, 

In  his  devout  omiaons  tliought  an  me. 

But  who  art  tliou  that  queetiou'st  of  our  £tate. 

Who  go's!,  as  I  believe,  with  lids  unolosed, 

And  brcMtheat  in  thy  talk  V — "  Mine  eyea,"  said  I, 

"  May  yet  be  here  ta'eii  from  me  ;  but  not  long ; 

For  Ihey  hare  not  otlended  grievously 

Witli  eunouB  gtances.    But  tbe  wo  beneath* 

Urges  my  soul  with  more  exceeding  dread. 

That  nether  load  already  weighs  me  down." 

She  thus ;  "  Who  then,  amoug  us  here  alofl, 
Hath  brought  thee,  if  thou  weenest  1o  return  T" 

"  He,"  answer'd  I, "  who  utaadeth  mote  beside  me^ 
I  live  ;  of  me  ask  therefore,  chosen  spirit ! 
If  tliou  dtwe  I  yonder  yet  should  move 
For  thee  iny  mortal  feel." — "  Oh  1"  flhe  replied, 
"  Tljis  is  BO  strange  a  things  it  is  great  sign 
That  God  doth  love  thae.    Theretore  with  thy  prayer 

Which  most  thou  covetest,  that  if  thy  feet' 
E'er  tread  on  Tuscan  soil',  thou  save  my  fame 
Amongst  oiy  kindred.     Tliem  shalt  thou  behold 
With  that  vain  multitude,'  who  Bet  their  hops 
Ob  Telamone's  haven  ;  there  to  fail 
Confounded,  more  tlion  when  (ho  fancied  stream 
They  Bouejht,  of  Dian  call'd:  but  they,  who  lead' 
•ri..:. ^][j,„  fuiu'd  hopes  shall  mourn." 


Their  n: 


rg.J    nero  PelllDBEDO,  . 


nnh  ol 


jDst  what  we  sbuDld  have  concluded  of  a  oiind  «uch  u  hk. 


^  S&b.»i«KrA 

am,  at  !)■" iT^irtni  that  Se  mudo"  '™™p'?j^  ^_b 

liter  uf  whom.  I'^^f.,,  u™  detene««y  "  "'  rsi 

™M(»^    Oolwvlj'I'W"." 

Bt.urfli.«»°«'°' '   nround  our  mounts  winds. 

He  comes  ""^  "J^'/j^,  him ;  and  take  hwd. 

For  thou  ait  oearB  ^^  ^^  ^^^  ^^ak. 

Acooet  hi™,  B"^Ti7„„  ^iriW,  bending  each 

ThuB  oQ  the  rghl  iw      p  ^^ 

Pnr  charity,  we  P^V  **"**'    ^   ,nd  who  thon  Mt : 
For  thou  doot  make  «».  ='      ,     ^  jh  boon." 

**!~JI^!_— — - — 'T^^^ii^l^Zl^ho^m. 

inasnf>-  -,    niawoithyof 


PURGATORY,  Cihto  XIV.  S 

m  vrsre  words  mis&pBDt : 
•.nice  Bounds  oa  ruiuor'a  lip." 
"If  well  I  do  incorporate  witli  my  lliought 
The  meaiuDg  of  thy  Kpeech,"  aaid  lie,  wlio  finit 
Address'd  me,  "  thou  dost  speak  of  Aiuo'a  wave." 


Tow 

The  title  of  th 


Q  the  oUier :'  "  Why  hath  ho  a 


Dolh  of  some  horrible  thiug  V     The  spirit,  who 

Thereof  was  queslion'd,  did  acquit  him  thus  : 

"  I  know  not:  but  'tis  fitting  wall  the  name 

Should  perish  of  tlmt  vale  ;  for  from  the  eourco,' 

Where  teems  bo  pleiiteouBly  the  Alpine  ateep 

Maim'd  of  Pelorus,'  (that  dolh  ecajcoly  pHSB* 

Beyond  that  limit,)  even  to  the  point 

Where  unto  ocean  a  restored  what  heaven  [streatr 

Drains  fh>m   the    exhausilesa  store  for   all  eartt 

Thraughoul  the  space  is  virtue  worrisd  down, 

Ab  't  were  a,  enake,  by  all,  for  mortal  foe  ; 

Or  through  disastrous  influence  ou  the  place, 

Or  else  dtstortion  of  misguided  wills 

Tliat  custom  ooads  to  evil :  whence  in  those, 

The  dwellen  in  that  miserable  vale, 

Nature  is  so  trsnsforra'd,  it  seems  as  they 

Had  shared  of  Circe's  feeding.    'Midst  brute  swim 

Worthier  of  aeoma  than  of  other  food 

Created  for  man's  use,  ho  ahapolh  fiist 

His  obscure  way  ;  then,  aloping  onward,  finds 

Curij*  snariars  more  iu  spite  than  power,  from  who 

He  tuma  with  scorn  aside :  still  journeying  down, 

By  how  much  more  the  cursod  and  luckless  foaa' 

Bwells  out  to  largeness,  e'en  so  much  it  finds 

Dogs  turning  into  wolves.'     Descending  s^ll 


nli 

^"■vS^?: 

>JII«^d  ,/Pti<m 

Tiii", 

as  to  the 

S96  THE  VISION,  54-90, 

Through  yet  more  hollow  eddka,  next  he  meete 

A  race  of  foxes,"  so  f  opiete  with  craft, 

Tbey  do  not  fear  (het  skill  oan  mtkBler  it. 

Nor  will  I  cease  becBuse  my  worda  are  heard* 

By  other  ean  than  thine.    It  shall  be  well 

FiK  this  laan,'  if  he  keep  in  memory 

What  from  no  erring  spirit  I  reveal. 

Lo !  I  behold  thy  pmudsoa,*  that  be«)nie> 

A  hunter  of  those  wolves,  npon  the  shore 

Of  the  tierce  stream  ;  and  cows  (hem  all  wilh  dnod 

Their  flesh,  yet  living,  eels  he  op  to  sale. 

Then,  like  an  aged  beast,  to  slaughter  dooiDB. 

Many  of  life  he  reaves,  himseif  of  worth 

And  goodly  eslimatioo.     Smear'd  with  gore, 

Mark  how  he  iieues  from  the  rueful  woid  ; 

Leaving  such  havoc,  that  in  thousand  yoen 

It  spreads  not  to  prime  lustihood  again." 

Changes  his  looks  perturb'd,  from  whale'ar  part 
The  peril  grasp  him  ;  so  beheld  I  change 
That  sjHrit,  who  hod  tum'd  to  listen ;  etraok 
With  sadness,  soon  as  he  had  caught  the  word. 

His  visage,  and  the  other's  apeech,  did  raise 
Desire  ni  me  to  know  the  namos  of  botli ; 
Whereof,  witii  meek  entreaty,  I  inquired. 

The  shade,  who  late  addrew'd  me,  Ihns  remmed : 
"  Thy  wish  unpens,  that  I  vanchsafe  to  do 
For  thy  soke  what  Ihou  wilt  not  do*  for  miiie. 
But,  since  God's  will  is  that  so  largely  abiiio 
His  grace  in  thee,  1  will  be  liberal  too. 
Guide  of  Duca  know  then  that  I  am. 
EuFy  so  piu-oh'd  my  blood,  that  hod  I  seen 
A  fellow-man  made  joyous,  thou  badst  marit'd 
A  hvid  paleness  overEpreod  my  cheek. 
Such  liarvest  reap  I  of  the  seed  I  sow'd. 
O  man !  why  place'  thy  heart  where  there  doth  Mad 
Exclusion  of  participants  in  good! 


>  Fir  tiia  *>im.1  "  For  Ikuile,  who  hu  told  db  Ihsl  bs 
como  (mm  the  Kenks  of  Aniii." 

'  Tin  frru^dmni.]  Fulclerl  d»  Calboll,  «nndsna  of  Bialiirt 
da  Cnlbon  who  li  hers  sixiksn  (o.  Ths  anoclHes  nndtebnl 
came  10  piiM  in  130a.    tee  G.  VillBni,  lib,  vlu.  c,  M. 

•  ir»al  Udk  io(«  iuI  ito,]    Denis  bsvine  decUnod  loHtaj 

"  H^jT /pJocc]  This  WILL  bo  oiplalned  In  the  CDiQlng  CnhIo. 


gt'lOT.  PURGATOKi',  Canto  XIV.  297 

Thig  is  Uiniuri'B  spirit ;  lliie,  tbe  boost 
And  honor  of  tlie  hoiue  of  Colboli ; 
Where  of  tiiis  worth  no  heritage  remnina. 
Not  tuB  tbe  only  blood,  that  hath  beeu  atiipp'd, 

STwiit  Po,  the  mount,  (lie  Reno,  and  the  ehore') 
f  all  that  truth  or  fancy'  aske  for  bliya: 
,  in  those  limits,  bucIi  a  growth  has  sprung 
Of  rank  and  venom'd  roots,  as  long  would  mock 
Slow  culture'B  toil     Where  is  good  Liiio?'  where 
Mapaidi,  Travereaia,  and  Carpigua?* 
O  bastard  slips  of  old  Roniagna's  hne  ! 
When  iQ  Bologna  the  low  artisan,' 
And  m  Faenza  you  Bernoidiu'  sprouts, 
A  gentle  cion  from  ignoble  stem. 
Wonder  not,  Tuscan,  if  thou  eee  mo  weep. 
When  I  recall  to  mind  those  once  loved  UBmee, 
Guido  of  Prota,''  and  of  AzZD  bint" 


Qnanda  Iq  Goloffiu  un  FAhroalnlllena: 
anando  in  »-wiiza  un  BemardLn  dl  fo^co. 
poiDting  uid  Iho  iDHT^Did  nole  of  Iba  Monls  CaaMno 


at  boUi  Uwre  i>  wrl 
DBdB  a  proper  haid 


pntftUwi.  V  U  DiPit  have  been  done  la  tbe  &^:a,  1  balieve, 
at  anily  all  ihe  edlUoni,  nnit.  as  Ar  a>  may  Iw  nihend 
ftom  Ifae  Illence  at  l^mbardl,  of  the  MSS.  sliD  which  tlisl 


0P.  bnl  gnu  UlenU,  wba  gareriied  nt  t'tWDEB. 
'  Praia.]    A  plBfs  between  Vimavt  and  Raveono. 
■  Of  ^iio  *.■»,]    UaoUno,  or  Ihe  DhoJillnl  tamUj  In  Tus- 


^ 


398  TllE  VISION.  IQB-IH. 

That  dwelt  wilh  «h  ;'  Tignoao'  lUld  bis  troop. 
With  Travenraio'a  hnuBO  and  AnaslftgiO's,' 
(Each  race  diBheriled ;)  and  beside  these, 
Tbo  lodiea*  and  the  kiughta,  the  toils  aud  eoae. 
That  wilch'd  UB  inCa  love  and  courieBy  f 
Whoro  now  >uch  miiliBO  ttfigns  in  recreant  hesrla. 
O  Brettinoro!*  whirefore  tarriflBt  still, 

J  With  uf 'J   Lombaidi  clalnu  the  T&&dknE>  "  dobcji/'  iaatei 


•  Tifnoaa.]    Federiga  Tlgnoio  of  Rlmhil. 

■  TraBtriara't  Ham  and  Jliuutafit't.]  Two  noble  hndlln 
if  Eavennn.  See  v.  100,  She,  lo  whom  DiydHn  lui  glvmi 
Jie  Dnme  or  Uonorla,  to  Iho  Able  to  admlnStf  parapbTufd 
Vum  BocdocFiD,  was  or  Ibe  fonner :  her  iovet  una  the  spnm 


I  BpTilt  of  cb[raliy.    *'  A^" 


fi  Is  of  opuwn  (hat  the  opeiuii] 


(  ooMta^B,"  tc.    Onmii 


» 


ItS^lM.         PURGATOEY,  Cskto  XIV.  39J 

:b  forth  of  thee  Ihy  family  halh  gone, 
And  many,  haling-  ewl,  join'd  their  alepa  ? 
Well  dootb  he,  tbst  bids  hi»  linea^  cease, 
BagnBCBTallD ;'  Castraoaio  ill, 
And  Conio  woree,^  who  care  lo  propa^te 
A  race  of  Counties'  from  eiich  blood  as  thoira 
Well  shall  ye  also  da,  Pagani,'  then 
When  from  among  you  hies  your  demon  child  ; 
Not  BO  howe'er,'  that  theaceforth  there  remuiu 
True  proof  of  wlial  ya  were.     O  Ilugoliii," 
Thou  sprung  of  Fantolini'a  lino  I  thy  iinme 
Ib  safe:  aince  nciae  is  look'd  for  after  titee 
To  cloud  its  luslro,  warping  from  Ihy  alock. 
Bnt,  ToHcaa  1  go  thy  wsya  )  for  now  I  take 
Far  mora  delight  in  weeping,  than  in  worda. 
Snch'  pity  ibr  your  sakes  hath  wnuig  my  heart." 
We  knew  (hoae  gentle  spirits,  at  parting,  heard 
Our  atape.     Their  allonca  therefore,  of  our  way, 
Aaaored  an.     Soon  ai  we  had  quitted  them, 
Advandug  onward,  lo  1  a.  voice,  that  seem'd 

them,  a  tioff  being  luNgncd  10  each,  and  IhaL  er^oidLngly  aj 
a  alThBfer  an  his  arrival  buaji  bEa  haae'a  brli^fi  on  una  o 


*  Fiifitni.i    The  Fntgani  waie  lotdi  of  Faenia  nnil  [miilK. 
One  li  IbEDi,  MarUoarilo,  wu  aameil  Eiti  ZJeniN,  fium  bli 

Willi  Htme  vice,  aod  will  not  aOiud  Ime  proof  of  Ibe  ivonh 

•  nivalin.]    Ugollao  Obeldinl,  a  nablc  sad  rinuous  person 

Ukalr  10  leave  any  aflapcini  betilnil  him.  He  i>  enumsralad 
■mmf  the  poeU  hy  OteicliabenI,  and  by  TliBbiEMhi.  Mr. 
KalUai's  edil..  Eol.  1.  p.  143;  andPeitkarl  cIihb  a  beanltnil 
UtUa  paem  by  him  In  ib«  Apolt«la  di  Uanie,  pans  11.  c.  ST. 
but  idlti  to  llllJe  eppeusnoe  of  onllqully  Ihsl  aolhlnj  leu 
thaa  Ihe  aamnacs  of  »  otic  a  ulllc  coulil  Indaca  una  Idi  a 


300  "^B^  VISION. 

Liko  vo1le;'d  Ughtaing,  when  it  rivea  tbo  ui 
Met  OB,  and  ahoDled,  '■  WhiMDever  finds 
Will  Elay  me  ;'"  then  fled  from  UB,  ub  the  b( 
Lanced  sudden  from  a  downward- rushing  i^l 
When  it  had  |^ven  short  truce  unto  our  heoi 
Behold  the  other  with  a  cnuili  an  load 
Ab  the  1]  nick-folio  wing  Ihonder:  "  Mark  in  nrv 
Aglanros,^  lum'd  to  rock."     I,  at  the  sound 
Retreating,  drew  mare  closely  to  my  guide. 
Now  in  mute  HtiUnesB  rested  all  the  air ; 
And  thus  he  spako :  *'  There  was  the  gsiling    ^ 
Which*  eliould  keep  man  within  his  boundary^— 
■    '■    "lehook, 


He  I 


And,  round  about  you  wheeling,  ci 
With  everlaBting  beautieB.     Vet  your  eye 
I'umB  with  fond  doting  still  u.pon  the  earth. 
Therefore  lie  smites  you  who  diBCemeth  all.'* 


CANTO    XV. 

ARGUMBMT. 


ofKi, 


PURGATORY,  Cam  XV, 


nml.     ^ 


iT  night; 


,   '^'V-t.J^J'^lJa  joumey  tdwatds  Ihe  wealer 

P°**     *'«*li**8  "^  "»"■  """  ""^^  ""'  """ 
j,"^*"«i,^         Vipon  our  rorehead  aniols  [ho  b 
jlj-^**    '^>«!?*'^  '''^  tnoiinlBin,  ciicling,  bo  our  path 
tj/''^  *^  t   ^^'"i  ''^^^  toward  (he  lunaet  now 
p^^***^^:^^^'*'^  joumey'd;  when  1  felt  a  weight 
Po^^^    ^*^    exceeding  splendor,  than  before, 
j^j^^?«»^t^i*    my  Cront.    The  cause  unknown,  amaio 
■pL     **»^j.     "3  me;  and  both  hands' Bgaiial  my  brows 
ejj^_t     .,^'     ^  [nlerpoaedlb.'i"-"-n«'""'n- 

Or '      -- 

■S=^  »^>^--._  „,.„  .,„„„. , ,_,.  „, . 

*^*-?'*  **-^?'^t  rccml'd.  "  What  ii  this,  sire  ' 
,^''^i^i  whLch  I  rtrive  to  shield  the  Bighi 
"  ^^r*      *  "  ^"^  which  toward  at  moving 

^  -^^  *»  Tol  not,  if  the  rnmily  of  heaven, 
ar'd,  "  yet  with  da»iling 
le.     It  ia  a  meneiiger  w): 


XiTuch*  drflcia  from  the  stone,  that  falls 
^Vi  eqanl  space,  (BO  practic  skill  hath  ^own ;] 
r^'^^ith  roftocted  li^l,  bffore  me  seera'd 


Tl.^ 


Up  to  Iheir  pitob."     The  blemed  an^l,  aaoa 
Ab  we  had  reach'd  him,  hoil'd  ua  wiili  gldd  rtnce : 
"  Here  enter  on  b  ladder  far  less  steep 
Than  ye  have  yet  encouuterU"     We  forthwilh 
Aseending,  heard  behind  UB  chanted  Hweet, 
"  BlGBsed  thi>  merciful,'"  and  "  Happy  thou, 
TliBt  coDquer'at."    Lonely  each,  my  guide  and  I, 
Piireued  oiii  Dpward  way  ;  and  as  we  went, 
Some  proHl;  from  hia  words  1  hoped  to  win. 
And  thus  of  him  inquiring,  framed  my  speech  : 
"  What  meant  Romogna's  sfHrit,'  when  he  apaka 
Of  blisB  exclusive,  with  no  thinner  shtired  1" 

He  struigbt  replied;  "  No  wonder,  unce he  knowa,    J 
What  sorrow  wails  on  his  own  worst  defect, 
If  he  chide  otlien,  thut  they  less  may  moom. 
Because  ye  point  your  wishes  at  a  mark. 
Where,  by  communion  of  posBeason,  part 
Is  lesscu'd,  envy  bloweth  up  men's  sigliB. 
So  fear  of  tliot  might  touch  ye.  If  the  love 
or  higher  sphere  exalted  your  deare. 
For  there,'  by  how  much  mora  they  call  It  utin. 
So  much  propriety  of  each  in  good 
IncreaeeB  more,  and  heightau'd  charity 
Wraps  that  fair  cloister  in  a  brighter  flame." 

"  Now  lack  I  satiafactioa  more,"  said  I. 
■'  Than  if  (ho]i  liadst  been  silent  at  the  first ; 
And  doubt  more  gathers  on  my  laboriiig  thtm^l. 
How  can  it  chance,  that  good  distribated, 
The  many,  that  pnasess  it.  makes  more  rich. 
Than  if  't  were  shared  by  few  V  He  answering  thui :  ' 
"  Thy  mind,  reverting  still  to  things  of  earth, 
Strikes  dnrkaesB  from  tme  light.  The  higheM.  good 
Unlimited,  inefikble,  doth  bo  speed 
To  love,  as  beam  to  lucid  body  darts, 


m-m.  PURGATOR-V.  Casto  XV. 

Giying  lu  mnch  of  irdor  ils  il  fiuds. 
The  sempiloijial  effluenco  streams  abrond, 
SpTeudiug,  wherever  charily  f^xtjjnde- 
So  Ihat  the  more  aapiruitB  to  IhDl  Uias 
a™  multiplied,  more  good  is  there  to  love, 
And  more  is  loved  ;  as  mirrora.  thnt  reflect, 
Each  unto  other,  propagated  light. 
If  these  my  words  avail  not  to  allay 
Thy  thirsting,  Beatrice  thou  shatt  see, 
Who  of  this  wont,  and  of  till  else  thou  haat. 
Shall  rid  thee  lo  the  full.      Provide  but  thou,' 
That  fiom  thy  temples  may  be  soon  erased, 
E'en  as  the  two  already,  those  five  scars. 
That,  when  they  pain  thee  worst,  then  kindliest  heal." 
"  Thou,"  I  had  said,  "  conlent'st  me ;"  when  I  saw 
The  other  roDnd  was  eain'd,  and  wondering  eyes 
Did  keep  me  mute.    There  suddenly  I  BGem'd 
By  an  etattatic  viaLon  wrapt  away  ; 
And  in  a  temple  saw,  methouglit.  a  crowd 
Of  many  pensoiu ;  and  at  the  entrance  stood 
A  dome,'  wh«e  sweet  demeanor  did  eipresa 
A  mother's  love,  who  said,  "  Chihl !  why  hast  thou 
Dealt  with  ub  thus  1     Behold  thy  sire  and  I 
Sorrowing  huve  aou^hl  thee ;"  and  so  held  her  peace  ; 
And  slraig:lil  the  vision  fled.    A  female  next 
Appear'd  before  mn,  down  whoee  viaixge  coursed 
Those  waters,  that  grief  farcee  out  trom  one 
By  deep  resentment  slung,  who  seem'd  to  say: 
"  If  tliou,  Pirastralus,  be  lord  iudeed 
Over  this  city,'  nomed  with  such  debate 
Of  adverse  gods,  and  whence  each  science  (parkles, 
Avenge  thee  of  these  amw.  whose  bold  embnice 
Halh  clasp'd  our  daughter  ;"  and  lo  her,  mesee m'd. 
Benign  and  meek,  with  visage  iindisturb'd, 
Her  sovereign  spake:  "Hew  shall  we  those  requite* 
Who  inah  us  evil,  if  we  thus  condemn 
The  man  that  kivea  nsr'     After  thnt  I  saw 


iP««M.»u»I*™. 

"Take   he 

rflh« 

Ihoo  be  he 

nledof 

Ihe  Hn  remainUig 

Inn.  u  Llio 

lis  an  of  U 

nUMly,  pride  Bid  en 

vy." 

•Ji««.)    LakB, 

t.ta. 

..■.S:™^5'li 

'Aflfwj,  Ml 

nrv«.lB 

gift  for 

il  la  lao  olive,  ttaun 

splune  had 

""iha  hone. 

Jrc,«u.i 

nswor  of  PI 

wh..n  >he  nreed  h 

Uhmmil  of  dmh  ng 

.  Intlsmed  w1 

arhl>d»nnliior,luici 

n   sr      iiu 

.wry  LKolJliy  Valai 

lu  Miiliiim 

Ub.  v 

304 


THE  VISION. 


A  multitudu,  ill  fury  buming,  day 
With  Hloues  a.  Btriplm|r  yoatli,'  and  ebont  amain 
"  Di<8trDy<  di^iBUoy  i"  and  him  I  saw,  viho  bow*!! 
Ht^Bvy  with  death  iinlo  tbe  groand,  yet  madii 
His  eyu,  imfcklded  upward^  gates  to  beaTetit 
Fraying  foFpyeneaa  of  tho  Almighty  S 


A  that  0 


Willi  lookfl  Ihat  wm  c 

tioon  tta  my  apirit,  from  her  ury  fli^ 
ReturjiiiL^T  aouglit  o^om  tha  Lhmga  w] 
Dupenda  nat  aii  her  Bhapin^T  I  obflorved 
^he  had  noC  roved  to  fabohood  in.  her  dreamH. 

Meniiwbila  the  leader,  who  might  see  I  moved 
Ah  one  who  strugglea  to  flhake  off  bis  sleep, 
Exclaiin'd :  "  What  ails  thee,  that  thoa  canst  not  holA  | 
Tliy  footing  linn  ;  but  more  than  half  a  lea^e 
Hast  travell'd  with  cloecd  eyefl  and  tottering  gaitj 
Lite  lo  a  man  by  wine  or  sleep  o'erchargedl 

"  Beloved  fallier!  bo  thou  deign,"  said  I, 
"  To  liaien,  I  will  teU  Ihea  what  appear'd 
Before  ins,  wheu  so  fail'd  roy  sinking  steps." 

He  thus  ;  "  Nut  if  thy  coiiDtenance  were  mask'd 
With  hundred  vizards,  could  a  tliouglit  of  thine. 
How  email  soe'er.  elude  me.    What  thuu  aavr'at 
Was  shown,  that  freely  thou  mightat  ope  thy  heart  I 
To  the  waters  of  pea       --"■—■  ■ 


What  ai 


iot  for 


InatoE 


le  as  he  doth,  who 
sk'd, 


Loofce  only  with  that  eye,  which  ai 

When  spiritless  tho  body  hoi      '    ' 

To  give  fresli  vigor  lo  thy  fo 

The  slow  and  loitering  need  ;  that  they  be  found 

Not  wanting,  when  tbeir  hour  of  watch  retomH." 

80  on  wo  joumey'd,  through  tho  evening  aky 
Gating  intent,  (ar  onward  as  our  eyes. 
With  level  view,  could  alretch  against  tlie  bright 
Vespertine  ray:  ondio!  by  slow  degrees 
Gathering,  a  fog  made  towards  us,  darX  ns  night. 
There  wae  no  room  for  'scaping;  and  that  mist 
Bereft  us,  both  of  sight  and  the  pure  air. 

CANTO   XVI. 


PtlRGATORTT,  Cinto  XVI. 


thr  undue  miilure  of  iplnnuil  aid  lamiianl  auiluiillv  in 

Hell's  dunnest  gloom,  nr  night  unluBtrouB,  dark, 
bt  every  planet  'reft,  and  pall'd  in  ciouda, 
Did  neTflr  Bpread  beforB  the  sight  a,  veil 
In  thicknBBS  like  that  fog.  nor  to  the  Btnso 
80  palpable  and  gross.      Entering  its  shade, 
Mine  eye  endured  not  with  unclosed  lids ; 
Which  marking,  near  me  drew  the  Talthful  guide. 
Offering  me  hia  sboulder  for  a  stay. 

As  the  bluid  man  behind  his  leader  walks, 
Iieat  he  should  err,  or  stumble  unawares 
On  what  might  harm  him  or  petliaps  destroy ; 
I  joumey'd  through  Ihal  bitter  air  and  Toul, 
Smi  hstening  to  my  escort's  warning  vcNce, 
"Look  that  from  melhon  part  not."  Strai^tl  heard 
ViHees,  and  coeh  one  soeui^d  to  pray  for  peace, 
And  for  compassioa,  to  the  Lamb  o(  God 
That  taketh  sins  away.     Their  pielode  still 
Was  "  Agnna  Dei ;"  and  through  all  the  choir, 
One  voice,  one  measure  ran,  that  perfect  seem'd 
The  concord  ot  their  song.     "  Are  these  I  hear 
Spirits,  O  tntister?"  I  exclaim'd  ;  and  be, 
"  Thou  aim'sl  ari^t :  these  loose  tJie  bonds  of  wrath." 

"  Now  who  art  thou,  that  through  our  smoke  dost 

And  epeak'st  of  us,  as  thou'  tliyself  e'en  yet 
Dividedst  time  by  calends  7"     So  one  voice 
Bespako  me ;  whence  my  master  said,  "  Reply ; 
And  aak,  if  upward  hence  the  paffiagc  lead." 

"  O  being  !  who  dost  make  thea  pure,  to  stand 
Beautiful  once  more  in  thy  Maker's  sight ; 
Along  with  me :  and  thou  shall  hear  and  wonder." 
Thus  I,  whereto  the  spirit  answering  spake: 
'^  Ixing  as  'tis  lawful  for  me,  shall  my  steps 
Follow  on  thine  ;  and  ainoe  the  cloudy  smoke 


To  higher  regions;  and  am  hither  come 
ThomugU  the  fearful  agony  of  hell. 
Aad,  if  so  largely  God  hath  doled  his  grace, 
That,  clean  beside  all  modern  precedent. 


300  TOE  VISION. 

He  wllla  me  to  boliold  his  kingly  atale  ; 
From  me  conce^  not  who  thou  waat,  ere  death 
Had  laaecd  thee ;  but  iaMruct  ma :  Hud  iuatn 
If  rightly  to  Ihu  pasB  I  tend  ;  thy  words 
1'he  way  directing,  as  a  safe  escort." 

■'  I  was  of  Lombardy,  and  Marco  call'd  :■ 
Not  inenporieueiid  of  Uie  world,  tliat  worth 
I  Htill  afTeclud,  froiu  which  all  have  tiuu'd 
Tlie  nerveleis  bow  aside.    Tliy  coum  tends  right  * 
Unto  the  suinmit:"  aud,  reidyiug  thus. 
He  added,  "  I  bceeech  thee  pray  for  me, 
Wheu  thou  shalt  come  alofL"    And  I  to  hii 
"  Accept  my  faith  for  pledge  I  will  perfomi 
What  thou  requirest     Yet  one  doubt  remau 
That  wriogs  me  sorely,  if  I  solve  it  not. 
Singly  before  it  urged  me,  doubled  now 
By  thine  opinion,  when  I  couple  that  [othsTJ  l 

With  one  elaewhore'  declared  ;  each  BtreiigtheDiDa<  I 
The  world  indeed  is  oven  bo  forlorn  "  " 

Of  all  good,  ae  thou  speak'st  it,  and  so  awarras 
With  every  evil.     Yet,  beseech  theo,  point 
The  cause  out  lo  me,  that  myself  may  bco. 
And  UDto  others  show  it  r  for  in  heaven 
One  places  it,  and  one  on  earth  below." 

Then  heavmg  forth  a  deep  and  audible  sigh, 
•<  Brother!"  he  thus  began,  "the  world  is  hliod 
And  thou  m  truth  comest  from  it.     Ye,  who  live 


L  I  leas  BfLombardv,  and  Mara  eaiVi.'i  A  VeneUnq  ffln- 
llK  mantrvlD  which'  he  beloDieil.    C.VIILani,  lib.  vIL.  cap. 

Benceniiln  ds.  Inmla.  laya  I^nillao,  reblei  of  Mm,  thai 
heaiiplled  by  lelur  lobiin-lead  Rleeaidu  da  Ounino.  lardoT 
BBVemV  noblBB  of  Iriunbardy  for  the  pnrpoAe ;  of  which  wlwa 
MnroQ  WM  InfotiDBd,  bo  wrota  b»ck  wLch  much  ladlcnaliiB 
loBlceardo,  thai  hetmd  nlbor  die  than  remain  under  cMin- 
llnni  ID  >o  many  beneftFUn.    It  1>  added  thatRlccankttbni 

I  have  ntmsion  lo  apeak  agnin  in  Iho  noloj  lo  Caaio  vllL  71, 


71-«0.  PURGATORY,  Canto  XVI.  307 

Free  choice  in  you  were  none ;  nor  justice  would 
There  should  be  joy  for  virtue,  wo  for  ill. 
Y<Hir  movements  have  their  primal  bent  from  heaven ; 
Not  all :  yet  said  I  all ;  what  then  ensues  ? 
Light  have  ye  still  to  follow  evil  or  good. 
And  of  the  will  free  power,  which,  if  it  stand 
firm  and  unwearied  in  Heaven's  first  assay, 
Conquers  at  last,  so  it  be  cherish^  well. 
Triumphant  over  all.     To  mightier  force,* 
To  better  nature  subject,  ye  abide 
Free,  not  constrain'd  by  that  which  forms  in  you 
The  reasoning  mind  uninfluenced  of  the  stars. 
If  then  the  present  race  of  mankind  err. 
Seek  in  yourselves  the  cause,  and  find  it  there. 
Herein  thou  shalt  confess  me  no  false  spy.        [holds 
"  Forth  from  his  plastic  hand,  who  charmed  be- 
Her  image  ere  she  yet  exist,  the  soul 
Comes  like  a  babe,  that  wantons  sportively,* 
Weeping  and  laughing  in  its  wayward  moods ; 
As  artless,  and  as  ignorant  of  aught, 


Of  this  be  sure, 

Where  freedom  is  not,  there  no  virtue  is : 
If  there  be  none,  this  world  is  all  a  cheat. 
And  the  divine  stability  of  heaven 
(That  assured  seat  for  good  men  after  death) 
Is  but  a  transient  cloud,  display'd  so  fair 
To  cherish  virtuous  hope,  but  at  our  need 
Etudes  the  sense,  and  fools  our  honest  faith, 
Vanishing  in  a  lie,  &c. 

So,  also,  Frezzi,  in  his  Quadriregio. 

Or  sappi  ben  che  Dio  ha  dato  il  freno 
A  vol  di  voi ;  e,  se  non  fosse  questo, 
Libero  arbitrio  in  voi  sarebbe  meno.        Lib.  ii.  cap.  I. 

There  is  much  more  on  this  subject  at  the  conclusion  of  the 
eighth  Capitolo  of  this  book.  Compare  also  Origcn.  in  Gene- 
sin.  Patrum  Grsecor.,  vol.  xi.  p.  14.  Werceburgi,  1783,  8vo., 
and  Tertuiiian,  Contra  Marcionem,  lib.  ii.  p.  458.  Lutctiae, 
1641,  fol. 

A  very  noble  passage  on  the  freedom  of  the  will  occurs  in 
the  first  book  De  Monarchic,  beginning,  "  Et  humanum  ge- 
nus, potissimum  liberum,  optime  se  habet.*'  "  The  human 
race,  when  most  completely  free,  is  in  its  highest  state  of  ex- 
cellence." 

>  To  mightier  force.]  "  Though  ye  arc  subject  to  a  higher 
power  tlian  that  of  the  heavenly  constellations,  even  to  the 
power  of  the  great  Creator  himself,  yet  ye  are  still  loft  in  the 
possession  of  liberty." 

3  Like  a  babe,  thatioantoPB  sportively.]  This  reminds  ns  of 
the  Emperor  Hadrian's  verses  to  his  departing  soul. 

Animula  vagula  blandula,  &c. 


\ 


THE  VISION. 
Save  th&t  her  Makei  being  one  ^o  dwol 
With  gladoteB  ever,  willingly  she  tumB 
To  wliate'cr  yield*  her  joy.  Of  gome  Blig 
The  flavor  Booa  she  tastes;  and,  iiaan>d  t 
With  fondneSB  she  pniBUBS  it ;  if  no  guida' 
Recall,  no  rein  direct  lier  wandering  coti 
Uonce  it  behcoved,  the  law  should  b«  a. 
A  Boveioign  hvace  behooved,  whose  pioi 
Might  mark  St  [east  the  fortress'  und  mai 
Of  tho  true  cit^.  LawB  indeed  there  are! 
But  who  is  he  observer  them  1  None  ;  ac 
Who  goea  before,  the  shepherd  of  the  fl  ~ 
Who'  chewB  the  cud  but  doth  not  clea 
Therefore  the  multitude,  who  see  thou 
Striko  at  tho  very  good  they 
Feed  there  and  look  no  further.  Thus  th^ 
Is  not  corrupted  nature  in  yoursolve 

aducting,  that  halh  tum'd  the  W 
ToeviL  Borne,  that  tun  "  " 
Was  wont  to  boast  two  suns,'  whose  st 
Cast  light  on  either  way,  the  world's  ai 
One  since  holh  quench'd  the  other ;  and  tl 
Is  grafted  on  the  crook  ;  and,  so  conjaui'4 
Each  muBl  perforcB  declme  to  worse,  un»1 
By  fear  of  other.     If  thou  doubt  m  '™ 


lief  mh^trato.  as  Iha  comm 

la^it;  B4id  it  Bpp«ar»  nuuirest  l>em  aH  oar 

ii  Arsl  book  Us  HoaarchlA,  aauxniiag  the  aal 

rigbl.    Tet  Lombordi  nQdenltn 
be  the  lo-w  nf  God  ;  the  wnereig 

BcuHiilag  U   Miu,   ilsnulSB  Uie  ptio^iial  puU 


■Vl« — XSO.       PDRGATORY,  Cabto  XVI.  3i 

^^^    bltds :  etch  berb  ia  judged  of  by  JU  aeed. 
^^a-t:    laid,'thn>u^wluch  Adiceaudlhe  Pa 
'^«»i«-    -wsterB  roll,  was  oucb  Iho  reeideDce 
^T    «=o»iitt»y  and  TBlor,  ere  the  day' 
i™^*    ftnwn'd  on  Frederick  ;  now  Kfiure  may  pan 

Hosts    Junils,  whosoe'er  huth  left,  for  ahamB, 
^     ^alhwiih  good  men,  or  come  near  their  hsnnU 
J?'"***'    "ged  ouea  are  mill  found  there,  in  whom 
fTJ^     '*'•'  t'nio'  chides  llie  new  :  these  deem  it  long 
™     <Jod  reatore  them  lo  a  better  world  : 
cZ^     eood  Gherardo  ;'  of  Palazzo  lie, 
,„  V^****  ;'    and  Guido  of  Castello,"  named 

jllj,^j'^'«   at  last  conclude.     The  cliurch  of  Home, 
ilath  *?^   ^'^°  Fovenimenta  that  til  aa»ort. 
Aurf     ,  ;*^>'««M  her  footins.  fallen  mlo  the  mire,' 
..    ^^''-^re  heraelf  and  burden  much  deBled." 
Conxri  '^frcol"  1  replied,  "thino  argumenta 

W'hv    '*S'^   "">■  ""'  *^°  cause  I  now  discern, 
Xo   £,  "  .  ^*-lie  heritage  no  portion  oamo 
_____      ^"■'s  oifepring.    But  resolve  me  tliia; 


"«^    h^r*  ■"yl    "W"""  ""  Emperor  V, 

•  T-*"*'*i*npBniia,  inlaw.    O.  VlLlanl, 

"'«*  (iiM.]    L'anllca  el*. 

--      ..     >.  *""^  nUnrJii, 

*'**»  -w^Sr^^oo.  mi  mill  W»  (mnilftlher 
»*•»,  ai3'  UtuB  Uj  Miy  ihot  UtaeiariUi  da 
•^""•^.u!^**  ""■'o  <^H  m  -  -  - - 


r;^"*^' 


iTu'cra^hC; 


I  '^.«H>?^pUan.°-ThUi°lJ>protoWythal  surn  (JheninKwho, 

Ey  '*i>ert'**i»p/ Corf*//!!.]    OfRsgglo.     All  the  luilU.n>  wore 

■  ,,'    Jf^l^nibimH  by  IhB  French. 

n     't*^'" '"""«""■"■]    There  U  R  pajimiM  mjcnibllng  Ihl. 

■  ^*».,^*iclp»rerqo»lB,  ne  time  hgnieniniin  nliiiio  povaUini 

■  ^^  tai  CBnuin  CflBi^lim  noccue  sU-" 


310 


THE  VISION. 


1 


Who  that  Gheraido  m,  that  as  thou  ssyst 
Is  left  a  Bumple  or  the  psrisli'd  race, 
And  for  rebuke  to  this  untoward  ago  T" 

"  Eithor  thy  wordB,"  said  he,  "  deceiTB. 
Are  maant  to  try  me  ;  that  thou,  Bponking  Tuscan, 
Ap|)par'Bt  uot  to  have  heard  of  good  Gherardo  ; 
■I'hc  boIb  addition  that,  by  which  I  know  him  ; 
Uiileaa  I  borroVd  from  his  daughter  Gala' 
Another  name  to  grace  him.     God  be  mth  you. 
I  b«ur  yon  company  no  more.     Behold  [mirt. 

The  dawn  with  white  ray  gllnuneriag  through  the 

Appisn 


He  said,  and  would  i 


he 


CANTO    XVII. 

ARGUMENT. 
'pa  ID  hlin  In  lively  porlmllure 


praiBe  of  havliiK  beqn 


1.]  A  iDdT  equally  admired  for 
her  psnan,  anJ  Ibe  ei«llEBcy  of 
raboaclll,  utBy  perbaps  lay  elulRl  td 
Iha  dnl  BniDng  (he  ItaUnD  lad)«, 
poetry  was  euTUnled.    This  appe 


Slttinagh  DDDna  btx  yet  n  ^  .. 

S,  ConHnoDia^  on  the  Conunedla  at  Dule.  by  Glovaml 

' " ■■  -f  Iho  Pii^lanr,  liB  «ayi ;  "DeliltO^ 

Unli,  quffi  aelvlt  bens  loqui  rhyimaUcs  la 


^•ii" 


dWIde  Italy  I 

AeraLlMT 

Noi  bre&lh  at  vex 


rM.]   "Nell'alpe."    Al  though  the  Aln. 


M4.  PURGATORY,  Canto  XVri.  Sn 

Through  which  thou  saw'st  no  botter  than  the  mole 

Doth  Lhruugh  opscoua  membrane;  then,  whene'er 

The  watery  vapura  dense  began  )o  melt 

Into  thin  air,  bow  faintly  the  sun's  sphere 

SeBm'd  wading  through  Ihem :  so  tliy  nimble  tbouglit 

May  image,  bow  at  first  I  lebebeld 

The  aun,  that  bedward  now  his  couDh  o'erhung. 

Thus,  with  my  leader's  feat  still  squalling  pace. 
From  forth  that  clond  I  came,  when  now  expired 
The  parting  beams  from  olFllie  nether  shores. 

O  quick  and  forgetive  power  I  that  sometimes  dost 
So  rob  us  of  ourselves,  we  take  no  mark 
Though  mmid  about  us  tliouBOud  trumpets  clang ; 
What  moves  Ihee,  if  the  senses  sin  not !     Light 
MovH  Ihee  from  heaven,  spontaneous,  self-infonn'd ; 
Or,  likelier,  gliding  down  with  swift  illapae 
By  wiU  divine.     Porttay'd  before  me  came 
The  traces  of  her  diie  impiety, 
Wh«e  form  was  changed  into  (jie  bird,  that  moat 
Delights  itself  in  song :'  and  here  my  mind 
Was  inwardly  so  wrapt,  il  gave  no  place 
To  BUgbt  that  ask'd  odniittancu  from  without. 


313  THE  VISION.  25-5(i. 

Nciit  Bhower'd  into  my  fantMy  a  eliape 

As  of  Dae  crucified,'  wliuse  vtaa^  siiake 

Fell  roucor,  malice  dwp,  wbfrem  he  died; 

And  round  him  AhHsuerus  the  greut  kin^; 

Esther  his  bride ;  and  Mordttcai  th<<  jost, 

Blamolesf  in  ward  and  deed.     As  of  itself 

That  unsiibstautial  coinage  of  the  brain 

Burst,  Ube  a  bubble,''  when  the  water  falls 

That  fad  it ;  in  my  viDiou  strai^t  uprose 

A  daniael*  weepmg  loud,  and  cried,  "  O  queen  1 

0  mother  !  wherefore  has  intemperate  iro 
Driven  thee  to  loathe  thy  bting?     Not  to  lose 
LaviniB,  desperate  thou  boat  alain  tbyselt 
New  linst  lliou  lost  me.     I  am  ^e,  whose  teats 
Mourn,  ere  1  fall,  a  mother's  timeless  ond." 

E'en  aa  a  sleep  breaks  off,  if  suddenly 
New  radiance  strike  upon  the  closed  licfa. 
The  broken  aliimber  quivenng  ere  it  dies  ;' 
Thus,  ftom  before  me,  sunk  that  imagery, 
Vanishing,  soon  as  on  my  face  then  ■tniak 
The  light,  outshining  far  our  earthly  beam. 
Ah  round  1  lumM  me  to  Hurrey  what  place 

1  had  arrived  at,  "  Here  ye  mount:"  ejiclliimM 
A  vtHCe,  that  other  purpose  left  me  none 

Save  will  so  ee^r  to  behold  wha  spake, 

I  could  not  choose  but  gaze.     Aa  'faro  the  sun. 

That  weighs  our  yiaion  down,  and  veils  hia  fonu  - 

In  light  Iransceadent,  thua  my  virtue  ftii'd  I 

Unequal.     "  This  is  Spirit  from  above,  ^ 

Wbo  manbala  ns  our  upward  way,  uosQUght; 
And  iu  his  own  light  slirouds  him.  As  a.  maa 
Doth  for  himself,  hd  now  is  done  Cot  us. 

I  Out  crTidJird.]  Haioan.  See  the  book  of  Bjiher.  c.  *il. 
•InHieLunmiaof  Hamnn,  we  ovtb  Iho  snlillme  doneepllod ' 
□r  Ui  Hgirn  |t>y  Michael  Aagclo)  to  this  jningc."     l\ttil. 

And  mote  are  of  Ih 


fminBd  on  Uuil  la  Virgil. 


.«««. 


r 


I 


'.^.\ 


t 


/ 


/. 


•  *1 


»'<■■  ■   m     .M 


■"r:7T~lS?^ 


57-93.  PURGATORY,  Canto  XVU.  313 

For  whoBO  waits  imploring,  yet  sees  need 

Of  his  prompt  aidance,  sets  himself  prepared 

For  hlont  denial,  ere  the  suit  be  made. 

Refose  we  not  to  lend  a  ready  foot 

At  such  inviting :  haste  we  to  ascend, 

Before  it  darken :  for  we  may  not  then, 

Till  mom  again  retmn."     So  spake  my  guide  ; 

And  to  one  ladder  both  addressed  our  steps  ; 

And  the  first  stair  approacliing,  I  perceived 

Near  me  as  't  were  the  waving  of  a  wing, 

That  fann'd  my  face,  and  whisper'd :  "  Blessed  they, 

The  peace-makers  :*  they  know  not  evil  wrath." 

Now  to  such  height  above  our  heads  were  raised 
The  last  beams,  followed  close  by  hooded  night, 
That  many  a  star  on  all  sides  through  the  gloom 
Shone  out  "  Why  partest  from  me,  O  my  strength  V* 
So  with  myself  I  communed  ;  for  I  felt 
My  o'ertoiPd  sinews  slacken.     We  had  reach'd 
The  summit,  and  were  fixM  like  to  a  bark 
Arrived  at  land.     And  waiting  a  short  space. 
If  aught  should  meet  mine  ear  in  that  new  round. 
Then  to  my  guide  I  tum'd,  and  said  :  "  Loved  sire ! 
Declare  what  guilt  is  on  this  circle  purged. 
If  our  feet  rest,  no  need  thy  speech  should  pause." 

He  thus  to  me :  "  The  love*  of  good,  whate'er 
Wanted  of  just  proportion,  here  fulfils. 
Here  plies  afresh  the  oar,  that  loiter'd  ill. 
But  that  thou  mayst  yet  clearlier  understand, 
Give  ear  unto  my  words  ;  and  thou  shalt  cull 
Some  fruit  may  please  thee  well,  from  this  delay. 

"  Creator,  nor  created  being,  e'er. 
My  son,"  he  thus  began,  "  was  without  love. 
Or  natural,'  or  the  free  spirit's  growth. 
Thou  hast  not  that  to  learn.     The  natural  still 
Is  without  error ;  but  the  other  swerves. 
If  on  ill  object  bent,  or  through  excess 
Of  vigor,  or  defect.    While  e'er  it  seeks* 

1  The  peace-makers.]  "  Blessed  are  the  peace-makers,  for 
they  shall  be  called  the  children  of  God.**    MaU.,  v.  9. 

*  The  love.]  "  A  defect  in  our  love  towards  God,  or  loke- 
warmness  in  piety,  is  here  removed." 

*  Or  natural.]  Lombard!  refers  to  the  Convito,  Canz.  i. 
Tratt.  2,  cap.  3,  where  this  subject  is  diffusely  treated  by  our 
Poet. 

*  While  e'er  it  seeks.]    So  Frezzi : 

E  s'egli  ^  ben,  che  d'altro  ben  dipenda, 
Non  s'ami  quasi  per  se  esistente, 
Se  vuoi,  che  quando  6  tolto,  non  foienda. 

n  Quadrir.f  lib.  ii.  cap.  14. 


i 


J14  THE  VKtON. 

The  priinBl  bleBsings.'  or  with  mesBuie  due 
The  inferior.'  no  dutighl,  thai  Dawn  frotu  it, 
Funakea  of  ill.  But  let  il  warp  to  evil, 
Oi  wilh  more  aidnr  rhan  behoovea,  or  len. 
Pursue  the  good  ;  the  thing  created  then 
Works  'guiuat  its  Maker.  Hence  thou  mu 
That  love  is  gmnin  of  each  virtue  in  ye. 

The  welfare  mainly  of  the  thing  it  iDvee. 
No  being  can  be  Ihonght  to  exiat  apart, 


"  Grant  Ihe  distinction  juat ;    .. .         

The  evil  must  be  another's,  which  is  loved. 
Three  wbj-b  such  love  is  gender'd  iu  your  clay. 
There  is*  who  hupee  (hiit  neighiMi'a  worth  depcm'd) 
Pro-eminence  huoeelf ;  und  covets  hence. 
For  hla  own  groalneBS,  that  anotlier  falL 
There  is'  who  so  much  feare  the  loss  of  power. 
Fame,  favor,  glory,  (tdiould  his  fellow  mount 
Above  him,)  and  so  sickeiu  at  the  thought. 
He  loves  their  opposite  :  and  there  is  he,' 
Whom  wrong  or  iasidt  seems  to  gall  and  shame, 
That  he  doth  thiret  for  vengeauce  ;  aod  such  needs 
Most  doat  on  other's  evil.     Here  beneath, 
This  threefold  love  is  moum'd,''     Of  the  other  sort 
Se  now  instTuctod  ;  that  which  follows  good, 
But  with  disordei'd  and  irregular  contBe. 

"All  indiBlinctly  apprehend  a  bliss, 


E 

rids  CnpllolQ,  nhlch  deicilbei  Ibe  puol 

mnrked  by  oiuoh  power  of  ImaeinoUon 
rallty. 

7'A>;<n-niIMMiiv-]    Spirilnal  good. 

ns  inftrioT,]    TeiDponl  good. 

hme 

(It  of  Ihow 
rir  kindred. 

We  CUD  llisrelbie  onlf  ^ii^e  In  Ibe  evil  whjoh  liel^Ui  ellii 
1  TSw.  ,■..]    Tho  envious. 

\..i     ThetEMBll 


ias-137.       PURGATORY,  Canto  XVIII.  315 

On  which  the  soul  may  rest ;  tlie  hearts  of  all 
Yearn  after  it ;  and  to  that  wished  bourn 
All  therefore  strive  to  tend.    If  ye  behold, 
Or  seek  it,  with  a  love  remiss  and  lax ; 
This  cornice,  after  just  repenting,  lays 
Its  penal  torment  on  ye.     Other  good 
There  is,  where  man  finds  not  his  happiness : 
It  is  not  true  fruition  ;  not  that  blest 
Essence,  of  every  good  tho  branch  and  root 
The  love  too  lavishly  bestow'd  on  this. 
Along  three  circles^  over  us,  is  moum'd. 
Account  of  that  division  tripartite 
Expect  not,  fitter  for  thine  own  research." 


f^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^*^^^ 


CANTO   XVIII. 


ARGUMENT. 

Virgil  discourses  (lirthcr  concerning  tlic  nature  of  love.  Then 
a  multitude  of  spirits  rusli  by ;  two  of  wliom  in  van  of  tbe 
rest,  record  instances  of  zeal  and  fervent  atiection,  and 
anotlier  wlio  was  abbot  of  San  Zeno  in  Verona,  declares 
himself  to  Vir01  and  Dante;  and  lastly  follow  other  spirits, 
shouting  forth  memorable  examples  of  the  sin  for  whick 
they  suffer.  The  Poet,  pursuing  his  meditations,  fitUs  into 
a  dreamy  slumber. 

The  teacher  ended,'  and  his  high  discourse 

Concluding,  earnest  in  my  looks  inquired 

If  I  appeared  content ;  and  I,  whom  still 

Unsatcd  thirst  to  hear  him  urged,  was  mute, 

Mute  outwardly,  yet  inwardly  I  said : 

*'  Perchance  my  too  much  questioning  offends." 

But  he,  true  father,  marked  tho  secret  wish 

By  dififidenco  restrain'd  ;  and,  speaking,  gave 

1  Along  three  circles.l  According  to  the  allegorical  com- 
mentators, as  Venturi  has  observed.  Reason  is  represented 
under  the  person  of  Virgil,  and  Sense  under  tliat  of  Dante. 
The  former  leaves  to  the  latter  to  discover  for  itself  the  three 
carnal  sins — avarice,  gluttony,  and  libidinousncss  ;  having 
already  declared  the  nature  ot  the  spiritual  sins— pride,  envy, 
anger,  and  indifference,  or  lukewannness  in  piety,  which 
tlie  Italians  call  accidia^  from  the  Greek  word  AKijitai  and 
which  Chaucer  vainly  endeavored  to  naturalize  in  our  lan- 
guage. Bee  the  Persone's  Tale.  Lombard!  refers  to  Thomas 
Aquinas,  lib.  i.,  Quest.  72,  Art.  3,  for  the  division  here  made 
by  our  Poet. 

s  7%«  teacher  ended.]    Compare  Plato,  Protagoras,  v.  iii.  p. 
1523,  Bin.  edit.,  npuiTav^pas  lih  Toaavra  k.t,X.    Apoll.  Rhod., 
1.  i.  513,  and  Milton,  P.  L.,  b.  viii.  1. 
The  angel  ended,  and  in  Adam's  ear 
So  charming  left  his  voice,  that  he  awhile 
Thought  him  stUl  speaking,  still  stood  fix*d  to  hear. 


A 


J 


316  THE  VISION.  9-2S. 

Me  boldoeas  thus  to  Hp*ak :  "  Master !  mj-  Kgbt 
Galhera  so  lively  virtue  from  thy  beaniB, 
Thai  all,  thy  words  convey,  distinct  is  seen. 
Wherefore  I  pray  thee,  (nthor,  whom  this  liemt 
Holds  dearest,  thou  wouldst  deign  by  proof  I'  unToid 
That  love,  from  which,  os  from  their  source,  Ihou 

All  good  deeds  and  their  opposite."     He  Ilien  : 
"To  whnt  I  now  disclose  be  thy  clear  ken 
Directed  ;  and  (hon  plainly  shall  behold  [Belvea 

How  much  those  blind  have  orr'd,  who  ninke  Ihem- 
The  guides  of  men.     The  soul,  oreited  apt 
To  love,  moves  versatile  which  way  aoe'er 
Auglit  pleasing  prompts  her,  soon  na  she  ia  waked 
By  pleasure  into  act.    Of  oubalance  true 
Your  apprehension'  farms  its  counterfeil ; 
And,  in  you  tlie  ideal  shape  presenting, 
Altracls  the  sout'e  regard.    If  sbe,  thus  drawn. 
Incline  toward  it ;  love  is  that  inclining. 
And  a  new  nature  knit  by  pleasure  in  yo. 
Then,  on  the  fire  points  up,  and  mounting  seeks 
His  birthplace  and  bis  lasting  seat,  e'en  Uioa 
Enteis  the  captive  soul  into  desire, 
Wliieli  ia  a  spuilual  tnotiou,  that  ne'er  resla 
Before  enjoyment  of  the  thing  It  loves. 
Euougli  to  show  llice,  how  the  truth  from  those 
Ib  liidden,  wlio  aver  all  love  a  Ihing 
Praiecnorthy  in  itself ;  although  perliaptr' 


Tn,J    II  Ia  lltfiali^,  ■■  Yont  appFehejulvfl 
atan  from  u  Ihlnp  rraUly  exlEillhir.  nnd 


thlngi,  M  dolennlnaWB  by  many  JIKroacej,  ituMtr.    Low. 
then,  In  kind,  perhnpi.  appean  good  ]  ond  II  li  Hid  ptrlu^, 

bnrdl  kddB.  Itiat  what  Immodistety  fhlhiwB,  najiwly.  thM 

10  IhlB  tnLeqmlatlaD.    For  the  waiElB  preclHly  aft  lbs  dvtBT- 

Dibilon  farm  ;  and  even  u  the  wu.  which  ia  giihcr  rdvJ  or 
nl  lenflt  nor  bfid.  itjny,  by  being  imprlarcd  by  a  bad  ItaniB, 


ofla/l 


a 


KjHGATORY,  Can 


it  ]ov> 


irnpref 


thy  words,  O  guide ! 
docUe  mind,  reveal.     Yet  tliencu 
iBTB  Bprong.    For,  fmm  wilhuiil,  if  love 


,d  slie  right  nr  wrong, 


New  doubts 
Be  oBeiA  to 
No  other  foo 
1b  no  dsBflrt 
"  What  reaeon  here  discovera,  I  liave  power 
To  show  ttiee  :  thai  which  lii3  beyond,  exp«cl 
From  Beatrice,  faith  uot  raaBon'it  task. 
Spirit.'  mibatantial  form,  witli  matter  joiu'd, 
Not  in  confusioii  mix'd,  bath  ui  ilseif 
Specific  virtue  of  that  union  born. 
Which  is  uot  felt  except  it  work,  noi  proved 
Bot  through  elTect,  as  vegetable  life 
By  tbo  green  leaf.    From  whence  his  intellect 
Deduced  its  primal  noticeB  of  Ihings, 
Man  therefore  knows  not,  or  bis  appetiteB 
Their  fint  aSecliong ;  such  in  yon,  as  zeal 
In  bees  to  gather  honey  ;  at  tbo  liiBt. 
VoiitioQ,  meriting  nor  Uame  nor  praise. 
But  o'er  each  lower  faculty  supreme, 
That,  as  she  list,  arc  aummon'd  to  her  bar, 
Yo  have  that  virtue"  in  you,  whoso  just  voice 
ITttereth  counsel,  and  whose  word  should  keep 
The  threaliold  of  asoent.    Here  is  the  Boorce, 
Whence  cause  of  merit  m  you  is  derived  ; 
E'en  as  the  atlecliona,  good  or  ill,  she  takes. 
Or  aevers,*  winnow'd  at  the  cbafi:    Those  men 


pHrtom  of  jin.  feai,  tiape,  Hinnw,  uiEor.  (nil  (ha  like,  hu 
brlu  (enenTgraonilnDrk  of  sll  ihls.  Love."  iJcurf  JUgrt 
^uubwktI.  Thl4  pouBfe  In  the  meil  phlloBniihlcal  of 
our  ihwilogluH.  msr  serve  tia  so  anawiir  to  Lbe  DbJncUoii  of 


w^ 


THE  VISION. 

'BH)»ing,  wudI  to  depth  profaundect,  n 
qbLh  fmedoin  ;  and  were  thence  induce 
a  Uieir  moral  teaching  lo  the  iTorir 
Den,  that  from  neceedt]'  arise 
that  glowB  within  you  ;  to  dismiaa 
or  il,  (he  power  ia  in  yonreelves. 
ber,  Beatrice,  in  her  style, 


The  1 


hupon 


n  talk  with  thee 
Them 


Ltthen 


road  diek 


Tu  midnight  honr  belated, 

Appear  Id  wink  and  f^e  ;  and 

SeemM  like  a  crag-^  on  fire,  aa 

That  course  ehe  jouniey'd,  whic 

When  they  nf  Rome  behold  hi 

Belwiit  Sardhiia  and  the  Corai 

And  now  tlie  weight,  that  linng  upon  my  thou^it. 

Was  lighlen'd  by  the  aid  of  Ihai  clear  spirit, 

Who  raiaelh  Andes'  above  Manlua'a  uanie. 

I  therefore,  wbea  my  questions  had  obUuu'd 

Solution  pltiin  and  ample,  stood  as  one 

Musiug  in  dreamy  slumber;  but  not  long 

Slumber'd  ;  tor  suddenly  a  multitude, 

Tlie  Hteep  already  turning  &om  behinil, 

RiiBh'd  uu.     With  fury  and  like  random  mat. 

As  echoing  on  their  ohorea  at  midnight  heiud 

l9meniia  and  Asopua,*  for  his  Thebes 

If  Bacchus'  help  were  needed;  so  came  these 

TumnltnoUfl,  curving  each  his  rapid  atcp. 


I 


S5-1S8.  PURGATORY,  Canto  XVUI.  319 

By  eagerness  iinpeird  of  holy  love. 

Soon  they  o'ertook  us ;  with  such  swiftness  moved 
The  mighty  crowd.    Two  spirits  at  their  head 
Cried,  weeping,  "  Blessed  Mary^  sought  with  haste 
The  hilly  region.     Caesar,^  to  subdue 
Ilerda,  darted  in  Marseilles  his  sting, 
And  flew  to  Spain." — '*  Oh,  tarry  not :  away !" 
The  others  shouted  ;  "let  not  time  be  lost 
Through  slackness  of  affection.  -  Hearty  zeal 
To  serve  reanimates  celestial  grace." 

"  O  ye !  in  whom  intcnser  fervency 
Haply  supplies,  where  lukewarm  erst  yo  fail'd, 
Slow  or  neglectful,  to  absolve  your  part 
Of  good  and  virtuous  ;  this  man,  who  yet  lives, 
(Credit  my  tale,  though  strange)  desires  to  ascend, 
So  morning  rise  to  light  us.     Therefore  say 
Which  hand  leads  nearest  to  the  rifted  rock." 

So  spake  my  guide  ;  to  whom  a  shade  retumM : 
"  Come  after  us,  and  thou  shalt  find  the  cleft. 
We  may  not  linger :  such  resistless  will 
Speeds  our  unwearied  course.     Vouchsafe  us  then 
Thy  pardon,  if  our  duty  seem  to  thee 

Discourteous  rudeness.     In  Verona  I  ,-  j 

Was  abbot^  of  San  Zeno,  when  the  hand 
Of  Barbarossa  graspM  Imperial  sway. 
That  name  ne'er  utter'd  without  tears  in  Milan. 
And  there  is  ho,^  hath  one  foot  in  his  grave, 
Who  for  that  monastery  ere  long  shall  weep. 
Ruing  his  power  misused :  for  that  his  son. 
Of  body  ill  compact,  and  worse  in  mind,  I ' 

And  bom  in  evil,  he  hath  set  in  place  1 1 

Of  its  true  pastor."     Whether  more  he  spake,  ij 

Or  here  was  mute,  I  know  not :  he  had  sped 
E'en  now  so  far  beyond  us.     Yet  thus  much 


^  Mary.]    "  And  Mary  arose  in  those  days,  and  went  into  '  j 

the  hill-country  with  haste,  into  a  city  of  Juda  ;   and  on-  | 

tared  into  the  house  of  Zacharias,  and  saluted  Elisabeth.*'  | 

Luke,  i.  39,  40.  ; 

3  Casar.]    See  Lucan,  Phars.,  lib.  iii.  and  iv.,  and  Cssar  de  I , 

Bello  Civili,  lib.  i.    Csesar  left  Brutus  to  complete  the  siege  I  i 

of  Marseilles,  and  hastened  on  to  the  attack  of  Afranius  \\ 

and  Pebreius,  the  generals  of  Ponipey,  at  lierda  (Lerida)  in  I 

Spain.  j 

■  ^bbot.]  Alberto,  abbot  of  San  Zeno  in  Verona,  when 
Frederick  I.  was  emperor,  by  whom  Milan  was  l>csiegcd  and 
reduced  to  ashes,  in  1162. 

*  There  is  he.]  All)erto  dcUa  Scala,  Lord  of  Verona,  who 
had  made  his  natural  son  abbot  of  San  Zeno. 


\\ 


THE  VISION, 


199-MS. 


1  beard,  and  in  rfmembriUice  tnaBunsd  it. 

He  then,  who  BOvet  fail'd  me  at  lay  Deed, 
Cried,  '•  Hilhoi  turn.     La !  two  with  aharp  remoree 
Chiding  thoir  sin."     In  real  of  nil  the  troop 
TiieiB  shouted :  "  Firat  they  died,*  to  whom  the  sea 
Open'd,  or  over  Jordan  uw  hJB  hein : 
And  they,'  who  with  JEaeas  lo  the  end 
Endured  not  sufiering,  for  their  portion  choae 
Life  without  glory."     Soon  aa  they  had  fled 
Post  reach  of  eight,  new  thought  withiii  me  roee 
By  others  follow'd  fust,  and  each  unliks 
'-    '  "  till  led  on  from  thought  1«  thaughl, 


Waacl 


sed,  D 


h  the  flee 


inged  to  droa 


CANTO   XIX. 

ABGUMENT. 
dcf  cKbini  hl>  dreain.  lelMss  hoi 
anitel,  he  siceadi  wllh  \ii^\  la 


w  Filth. 


,  of  din. 


No  rcliquB8  ohafe  the  < 

O'erpDwer'd  by  earth,  or  plaaetury  away 

Of  Saliira  ;  and  the  geomancer*  sees 

His  Greater  Fortane  up  the  east  aacend, 

Where  gray  dawn  checkers  first  the  shadowy  cone 

When,  'lore  me  in  my  dream,  a  woman's  shape' 


8-37. 


PL'RGATOJtV,  Ca^' 


1  SIX 


Then  came,  with  lipu  that  Htuniiner'd,  eyes  BBlant, 
Diutorted  frol,  hands  mairu'il,  and  color  pale, 

I  Uiok'd  upon  her :  aad,  ae  suoBhiiie  cbeete 
Limba  nuinb'd  by  uightly  oold,  e'en  thus  my  look 
Unloosed  her  tongue  ;  next,  in  brief  space,  her  torm 
Decrepit  laiaed  erect,  and  faded  faea 
With  love's  own  hne'  illumed     Recovering  speech, 
She  forlhwith,  warbling,  such  a  atratn  began. 
That  I,  how  loth  soe'er,  could  Koarce  have  held 
Attention  from  the  song,    "  t,"  thus  she  sang, 
"  I  am  the  Syren,  she,  whom  mariners 
On  the  wide  Boa  are  wildet'd  when  they  hear ; 
Such  fulnesa  of  delight  the  listener  feels. 
I,  from  hk  couree,  Olysses"  by  my  lay 
Enchanted  drew.     Whoe'er  frequents  me  once, 
Parts  aeldom:  so  I  charm  him,  and  his  heart 
Contented  knows  no  void."     Or  ere  her  mouth 
Waff  closed,  to  shaniD  her,  at  my  side  appeared 
A  dame'  of  semblance  holy.     With  stem  yoioe 
ShoDtter'd:  "  Say,  O  Virgil !  whoialhisT 
Wluoh  hearing,  he  approach'd,  with  eyes  still  bent 
Toward  that  goodly  presence  r  the  other  seised  her, 
And,  her  robes  tearing,  open'd  her  before, 
And  show'd  the  belly  to  me,  whence  a  smeli, 
Eihaling  loathsome,  waked  me.     Kound  I  lum'd 
Mine  eyes:  and  thus  the  teacher :  "At  the  least 
Three  times  my  voice  hath  call'd  thee.    Rise,  begoue. 
Let  ns  the  opening  find  where  Ihou  mayst  pass." 

I  straightway  rose.      Now  day,  puur'd  down  from 
Fdl'd  all  the  circuits  of  the  sacred  mount ;         [high, 


Qaooi  porphy] 

QoLppe  hmer  e»t  Igal  linilllH ; 


Lit  T  ddtlRnal  w, 


•  Uttua.i  II  1>  Bol  eaiy  lo  jBiermino  wbf  OlyMea,  con- 
Hide  froai  UsCDOrwby  Uie  floiig  of  Ibe  Syreu.  So  Lmpfoba- 
MawarorMcaDnlingnir  lbs  eoBlradlcHon  ii,  loiuppose  Ibat 
ikd  H  Mn  npnaenlH  u  purposely  devLaLLng  fhtm  Uw  ImUL. 
In  ntUb  Uw  wmdeilnn  or  Ulytioi  wsie  reprusenleit  oUur- 

•  J  dini.]    Philouphy,  01 


THE  VISION, 


And  OS  we  joutney'd,  on  our  shouWef  amote 

Tlie  early  lay.     I  follow'd,  Btoopiag  low 

My  forehead,  as  a  man,  o'etBbatgeii  with  thonj^ 

Who  bends  Wi  lo  tho  likeooBs  uf  an  aiah 

Tbat  midway  spans  Cbo  flood ;  wlien  llins  I  heud. 

"  Come,  enter  here,"  in  tone  so  eoft  and  mild. 

Aa  never  met  tho  ear  on  mortal  slTItDd. 

Willi  awan-like  wings  dispread  and  polntiiig  up, 
Who  thus  had  spokea  matshall'd  us  along, 
Where,  each  aide  of  the  soUd  maEOory, 
The  sloping  walls  retired ;  then  moved  his  plumes, 
And  fanning  us,  affirm'd  that  those,  who  mourn,' 
Are  blessed,  for  that  aiomfort  shall  be  theirs. 

"  What  uileth  thee,  that  stUl  thou  look'sl  to  eiuth  1^ 
Began  my  leader;  while  the  angelic  shape 
A  little  over  us  liis  station  took. 

"  New  fision,"  I  replied,  "  hath  raised  in  mo 
Surmiaings  striui^  and  anxious  doubts,  wbwwui 
My  soul  intent  allows  do  other  thought  . 

Orroom.  or  entrance."— "Hast  thou  seen,"  ewd  h»». 
"  Thai  old  enchantreisa,  her,  whose  wiles  alone 
Tho  spirits  o'er  us  weep  fori     Hast  Ihou  seen 
How  man  may  free  him  of  her  bonda  ?    £noueb.     , 
Let  thy  heels  spurn  the  earth  ;'  and  thy  nused  keat . 
Fix  on  the  lure,  which  heaven's  eternal  King 
Wh'uriB  In  the  rotllog  spheres."     As  on  his  feat 
The  falcon'  Grsl  looks  down,  then  to  the  sky 
Turns,  and  forth  stretches  eager  for  the  food,  • 

That  woos  hhn  thither  ;  so  Uie  call  I  heard : 
So  onward,  far  as  the  dividing  rock 
Gave  way,  Ijonraey'd,  (ill  the  plain  was  reach'd. 


1 


aro  Ihcy  Ibal  moura 

I  /.«  ti)  *«!>  ipi.ni  lAe 

■  ntMam-i 

,.H,JiQiukWr.,llb.tv 

lovidipolcolormt 

aatudo  la  pceda 

aneof  onr  ppriodlcal  crHUc 

neu.  a«  tlHIganlleDuia'a  a 

Kka  hi.  mElaplMm  (Vdu.  flihiac- 
ole>  lo  tho  ParM.  HLomhc,  vTuO. 

»-lM,  PDRGATORV.  Canto  XtS.  383 

On  the  fiflh  circle  when  I  stood  at  large, 
A  race  appeai'd  before  me,  on  the  ground 
All  downward  lying  prone  and  waeping  sore, 
"  My  soul'  hath  cleBved  to  Itae  dual,"  I  heard 
With  sighs  BO  deepi  they  woU-oigh  choked  the  words. 

"  O  ye  elect  of  God!  whose  penal  woes 
Both  hope  and  jnBtlce  mitigalo,  direct 
Towards  llie  steep  rismg  our  uncertain  wny." 

"  If  ye  approach  Becore  from  tbia  otjr  doom, 
PnMratJon,  and  would  urge  your  coume  wilh  speed, 
See  that  ye  still  to  rightward  fcoep  the  hrink." 

So  them  the  bani  besought ;  and  snch  the  words, 
Beyond  ua  Bunie  short  space,  in  answer  cauie. 

I  noted  what  remnin'd  yet  hidden  from  them;" 
Thence  to  my  liege's  ayes  mine  eyes  1  bent. 
And  be,  fbrthwilli  interpreting  their  suit, 
Beckon'd  his  glad  assent-     Free  then  to  act 
Aa  pleased  me.  I  drew  near,  and  took  my  slund 
Ovor  that  shade  whose  words  I  Inte  hod  mark'd. 
And,  "  SjHril !"  I  BBid,  "  in  wiioni  repentant  tears 
MatUTB  that  blessed  hour  when  thou  with  God 
Shalt  find  acceptance,  for  a  while  suspend 
For  me  that  mightier  cue.    Say  who  thou  woet ; 
Whj  tbna  ye  grovel  on  your  iMllies  prone  ; 
And  if,  In  anght,  ye  wish  my  aerviee  (here. 
"Whence  living  I  am  come."      He  answering  spake ; 
"  The  cause  why  Heaven  our  back  toward  hia  cope 
Reverses,  shalt  then  know :  but  mo  know  first, 
The  Buccosaor  of  Peter,'  and  the  name 
And  title  of  my  lineage,  from  that  stream* 
That  'Iwiit  Chiaveri  and  Siestri  draws 
His  lim^nd  waters  through  the  lowly  glen. 
A  month  and  little  more  by  proof  I  team'd 
With  what  a  weight  that  robci  of  sovereignty 
Upon  his  shoulder  rests,  who  from  tlio  mire 
Would  gDurd  it ;  that  each  other  faidel  seems 
But  feathers  in  the  balance.     Late,  alas  ! 

'   Mgimi.]   •'MywraUloatetti  in  IboilMl:  quldienlhou 

•  /  nMai  mhal  Tmnat'i  ya  tiddm  /ran  Oicm.]  Tbcy  wen 
Igmnuit,  11  Hiipenied,  wbElher  Dajite  was  toms  Iheie  lo  bo 
puged  of  blB  BiDi. 

iTTunccamrifPOcrX  Onobnono,  of  the finntly  of  Fi- 
McM.  Cminli  nf  L«T»pin.  iliBil  thitly-nlBB  flay*  Bflor  he  be. 
«aaB  pope,  wlQi  Oui  Ulle  of  Adrian  V.,  In  WS. 

•  That  (rrMm.]  Tbe  river  LaTBgno,  in  Ibe  Genoete  terri- 
tonr:  lo  ibe  eui  o(  whlcli  luiriurty  sie  aliusiod  BUaai  wd 
ChUveri. 


-         - 

■J-2i 

THE  VISION.                    IIW-IM. 

Was  my  conversion  :  but,  when  I  hccama 

Rome's  punor 

I  discera'd  at  once  the  dreani 

of  life  !  saw  that  the  heart 

Ke*led  not  the 

w,  and  yet  no  prouder  height 

Lured  on  the  o 

imber :  wherefore,  of  that  life 

No  more  enain 

or'd,  in  my  bosom  love 

Of  purer  boing 

kindled.     FortilHhen 

I  waa  a  sou\  in 

misery,  alicnalo 

From  God,  an 

covetouB  of  all  earthly  thingB ; 

Now,  aa  thou 

eeet,  hero  punidi'd  for  my  doling. 

Such  cleansing 

fhim  the  taint  of  aTarice, 

Do  apirils,  con 

ertcd,  need.     This  mount  inflicU 

No  direr  penalty.     E'en  as  our  eyei 

Fasteo'd  below 

,  nor  o'er  to  loftier  clime 

Were  lifted;' 

huahalhjusticelBveirdus. 

Here  on  the  e 

Lrlb.     As  avarice  quencb'd  our  lova 

Ofgooii.witho 

QtwhieliiBnoworkinB;  thus 

Here  jusUce  holds  ns  primn'd,  band  iad  Cool 

Chain'd  down 

and  bound,  while  heaven's  just  Lord 

Ere  my  beginning,  by  his  ear  perceived 
I  did  him  roveTence  ;  and  "  What  cause,"  said  lu, 
"  Hath  bow'd  thae  thus?" — "  Compunction,"  I  re- 
"  And  inward  awe  of  your  high  dignity."  [join'd, 

"  Up,"  ho  Biclaim'd,  "  brolher !  upon  thy  feot 
Aiieo  ;  err  not  :*  thy  fellow -servant  1, 
(Thine  and  all  others!  of  one  Sovereign  Power- 
If  thou  hast  ever  mark'd  those  holy  sonnda 
Of  gospel  truth, '  nor  shall  bo  given  in  raarriage," 
Thou  mayst  discern  the  reiujoiia  of  my  speecb. 
Go  thy  ways  now  ;  and  linger  hen 
Thy  tarrying  is  a  let  unto  the  lean  . 
With  which  I  banen  that  whoreof  thou  spakesL* 


Eiiuul'>iietpleiltyoccBaliiiieil  b 

iB.See  Ihon  iloilnol:  T  wn  thy  feuaw^errav 


140-143.         PURGATORY,  Canto  XX.  336 

I  have  on  earth  a  kinswoman ;'  her  name 
Alagia,  worthy  in  herself,  so  ill 
Example  of  our  house  corrupt  her  not : 
And  she  is  all  remaineth  of  me  there." 

CANTO    XX. 

ARGUMENT. 

Among  those  on  the  fifth  cornice,  Hugh  Capet  records  illuff- 
trious  examples  of  voluntary  poverty  and  of  bounty  ;  then 
tells  who  himself  is,  and  speaks  of  his  descendants  on  tlu) 
French  throne ;  and,  lastly,  adds  some  noted  instances  of 
avarice.  When  he  has  ended,  the  mountain  shakes,  and 
all  the  spirits  sing  "  Glory  to  God.*' 

Ill  strives  the  will,  'gainst  will  more  wise  that  strives : 
His  pleasure  therefore  to  mine  own  preferred, 
I  drew  the  sponge'  yet  thirsty  from  the  wave. 

Onward  I  moved  :  ho  also  onward  moved, 
Who  led  me,  coasting  still,  wherever  place 
Along  the  rock  was  vacant ;  as  a  man 
Wal^  near  the  battlements  on  narrow  wall. 
For  those  on  the  other  part,  who  drop  by  drop 
Wring  out  their  all-infecting  malady. 
Too  closely  press  the  verge.     Accursed  be  thou, 
Inveterate  wolf !'  whose  gorge  ingluts  more  prey, 
Than  every  beast  beside,  yet  is  not  fiU'd ; 
So  bottomless  thy  maw. — ^Ye  spheres  of  heaven  ! 
To  whom  there  arc,  as  seems,  who  attribute 
All  change  in  mortal  state,  when  is  the  day 
Of  his  appearing,*  for  whom  fate  reserves 
To  chase  her  hence  ? — ^With  wary  steps  and  slow 
We  pass'd  ;  and  I  attentive  to  the  shades. 
Whom  piteously  I  heard  lament  and  wail ; 
And,  'midst  the  wailing,  one  before  us  heard 
Cry  out  "  O  blessed  Virgin !"  as  a  dame 
In  the  sharp  pangs  of  childbed ;  and  "  How  poor 
Thou  wast,"  it  added,  "  witness  that  low  roof 
Where  thou  didst  lay  thy  sacred  burden  down. 
O  good  Fabricius  !*  thou  didst  virtue  choose 

1  ^  kinstooman.]  Alagia  is  said  to  have  been  the  wife  of 
the  Marchese  Marcello  Malaspina,  one  of  the  Poet's  protectors 
during  his  exile.    See  Canto  viii.  133. 

«  /  drew  the  sponge.]  "  I  did  not  persevere  in  my  inquiries 
frcnn  the  ttpirit,  though  still  anxious  to  learn  more.'* 

»  fFolf.]    Avarice. 

*  Of  his  appearintr.]  He  is  thought  to  allude  to  Can  Grande 
della  Scala.    See  Hell,  canto  i.  98. 

*  fhbrieiuB.]  So  our  author  in  the  second  book  of  the  De 
Monarchic,  p.  131.     "Nonne  Fabricium,  &c."     ''Has  not 


330  THE  VISION. 

With  poverly,  boforfl  great  wealth  with  vice." 

Tho  worda  so  plcnsed  me,  [hot  deeire  l(  ""    "  ~ 
The  Bpirit,  from  whaK  lip  they  eecio'd  to 
Did  draw  me  onvard.     Yet  it  spake  the  gift 
Of  Nicholaa,'  which  on  the  maldeiu  be 
Bounteoua  beBtow'd,  la  save  Ibeir  youthTuI  ji 
UnbletniBh'd.     "Spirit!  who  dosl  speak  of  deo 
Sd  worthy,  tell  me  who  thou  wast,"  I  said, 
'■  Aod  wby  thou  doM  with  single  voice  renea 
Mnnorial  of  such  pralee.    That  bocm  Toucfas 
liaply  shall  meet  reward  ;  if  1  relura 
To  daiab  the  short  [ulgiiiiiBge  of  life, 
^lill  speeding  1o  ila  dose  on  rcallesa  wing." 

"  I,"  answered  ho,  "  will  tell  thee  ;  not  for 
WJiich  Iheiice  I  look  for ;  but  that  in  thyself 
(trace  so  exceeding  shines,  before  thy  li 
Of  mortal  dissolution.    I  wiw  root' 
Of  that  ill  plant,  whose  shade  such  poison  Bhiiib 
O'er  all  the  Chriatiau  land,  thai  seldom  thence 
Good  fruit  ia  gather'd.    Vengeance  soon  should  come. 
Had  Ghent  and  Douay,  Lille  and  Bruges  power  ;* 
And  yengeancB  1  of  heaven's  great  Judge  implore. 
Hugh  Capet  was  I  bight :  from  me  descend 
The  Piiilips  and  the  Louia,  of  whom  France 
Newly  is  govern'd :  horn  of  one,  who  plied 
The  Hlaughlerer'a  trade*  at  Paris.     When  the  n 


SHM.  FUEGATORY,  Canto  XX.  337 

Of  ancient  kings  had  vanish'd  (all  save  one^ 
Wrapp'd  up  in  sable  weeds)  within  my  gripe 
I  found  the  reins  of  empire,  and  such  powers 
Of  new  acquirement,  with  full  store  of  friends, 
That  soon  the  widow'd  circlet  of  the  crown 
Was  girt  upon  the  temples  of  my  son,' 
He,  from  whose  bones  the  anointed  race  begins. 
Till  the  great  dower  of  Provence'  had  removed 
The  stains,^  that  yet  obscured  our  lowly  blood, 
Its  sway  indeed  was  narrow ;  but  however 
It  wrought  no  evil :  there,  with  force  and  lies. 
Began  its  rapine  :  after,  for  amends,^ 
Poitou  it  seized,  Navarre  and  Gascony." 


was  the  brother  of  Endes,  King  of  France  in  888 ;  and  It  may, 
therefore,  well  be  qxicstioned,  whether  by  Bcccaio  di  Parifl 
is  meant  literally  one  who  carried  on  the  trade  of  a  butcher, 
at  Paris,  and  whether  the  sanguinary  dispasition  of  Hugh 
Capet's  father  is  not  stigmatized  by  this  opprobrious  appella- 
tion.   See  Cancellieri,  Osservazioni,  ice,  Roma,  1814,  p.  6. 

1  All  save  one.]  The  posterity  of  Charlemagne,  the  second 
race  of  French  monarchs,  had  failed,  with  the  exception  of 
Charles  of  Lorraine,  who  is  said,  on  account  of  the  melan- 
choly temper  of  his  mind,  to  have  always  clothed  himself  in 
black.  Venturi  suggests  that  Dante  may  have  confoimded 
him  with  Childeric  III.,  the  last  of  the  Merovingian,  or  first 
race,  who  was  deposed  and  made  a  monk  in  751. 

3  My  son.]  Hugh  Capet  caused  his  son  Robert  to  be 
crowned  at  Orleans. 

*  The  great  dower  of  Provence.]  Louis  IX.  and  his  brother 
Charles  of  Anjou,  married  two  of  the  four  daughters  of  Ray- 
mond Berengcr,  Count  of  Provence.    See  Par.,  c.  vl.  135. 

^  The  stains.]  I^ombardi  understands  this  ditfercntly  from 
all  the  other  commentators  with  whom  I  nm  acquainted. 
The  word  *'  vergogna"  he  takes  in  the  sense  of  "  a  praise- 
worthy shame  of  doing  ill ;"  and  according  to  him,  the  trans- 
lation should  run  thus : 

The  shame  that  yet  restrain'd  my  race  from  ill. 

By  "  Provenza"  he  understands  the  estates  of  Toulouse,  the 
dowry  of  the  only  daughter  of  Raymond,  Count  of  Toulouse, 
married  to  a  brother  of  Louis  IX. 
»  Fbr  amends.]    This  is  ironical. 

•  Poitou  it  seized,  J^avarre  and  Qascony.]  I  venture  to  read — 

Potti  e  Navarra  prese  e  Guascogna, 
instead  of 

Ponti  e  Normandia  prese  e  Guascogna. 
Seized  Ponthieu,  Normandy  and  Gascogny. 

Jjandino  has  '*  Potti,"  and  he  is  probably  right :  for  Poitou 
was  annexed  to  the  French  crown  by  Philip  IV.  See  He- 
nault,  Abr6g6  Chron.,  A.  D.  1383,  &c.  Normandy  bad  been 
united  to  it  long  before  by  Philip  Augustus,  a  circumstance 
of  which  it  is  difficult  to  imagine  that  Dante  should  have 
been  ignorant ;  but  Philip  IV.,  says  Ilenault,  ibid.,  took  the 
title  of  King  of  Navarre :  and  the  subjugation  of  Navarre 


i 


r 


T^IEVlSlOt*- 


aim, « -V  •"*s.V"«" " " 


TUB  V"^  ° 
ftl  low.  Cbf*^*"  t        ■        ■ 


od«i"e«J 


AC-"*" 


ftiner.  "^  ^  i-hBmp»E''*-  ll^Soi  le*""  n„  the  bcw*™ 


^-Jia-o. 


IMW* 


r 


»J-T7.  PURGATORY,  Cawpo  XX.  32 

And  dent  the  angelic  teuchnr*  back  (o  heaven, 
Slill  for  amenda.     I  sec  the  time  at  bond, 
That  forth  froin  France  invites  another  Charles' 
To  make  himself  and  kindred  better  known. 
Uaorm'd  he  isauea,  saving  with  that  lance, 
Which  the  arch-traitor  titled  n 


Heo 


a  thniGl 


The  bonela  of  poor  t 

on- 

c.-. 

No 

ncreasB 

Of  icrrilor) 

hence, b 

shnr 

Shall  be  bb 

Hw. 

miirh 

the  more 

As  be  more 

hghtiy  d 

em. 

of  a 

uchf 

nl  wrong. 

brlUe  Flcmln 

"f 

^mrlra 

Btlll  he  WM  90DD 

■■Now  lo  I 

CM  Ihree 

lead 

„g« 

PKiha, 

of  PhJIIp'i  lira,  lbs 

nclngly  conlsiiturcil 


>  rKBV  CmniliM.]    Churiei  of  Anjnn  pal  CoDradinn  U 
dath  In  isea  KDil  tociiniD  Kliif  of  Naples.    8es  Rsll.Csnla 

to.  lui  IL  cap.  iHl 
*  T%t  a^dic  iBadirr.]  ThomM  Aqnlnas.   HeWMrenoned 
"■ ■" '---idiiya  pbyBician,  who  wiabed  lo  hioia- 


IllluTO 


if  wiih'ChBrlejof      . 

[rf  at  ATlgium  Thamaa  Aquinas,  of  tbfl  oFderof 
owiu  lAmiiulc,  a  mastoT  in  divinity  and  phlUnopby,  s  la&a 
DHKI  eicflllenl  In  ell  science,  rmd  who  expoiindtiil  the  nrua 

Ha  Uved  in  Ihe  tims  or  Charle^  l'  King  at  SIdly ;  auif^l^ 
to  the  council  al  Lyoni,  il  Is  esid  that  he  was  ICUled  Uy  s. 
plijr^liLa  of  the  Hid  king,  who  pat  poison  i^ir  'him  into  Eiarue 
In^mdale  hi       "      "  '     " 


330  THE  VISION. 

I  see  the  other,'  (who  a  pnaoner  lute 

Hftd  nopp'd  ou  shore)  eiptiaog  to  the  mart 

Hw  daughter,  whom  he  bargains  for.  as  du 

What  cauBt  Ihuu  more,  who  hnat  sabdued  Due" 

80  wholly  to  tbvseh',  Ihey  feol  no  care 

Of  their  awn  flesh?     To  hide  with  direr  ^ll 

Past  in  and  fiilure,  lo  !  the  flower-do-lace" 

Kulors  Alagiia ;  in  hia  Vicar  Christ 

tlimsFlr  a  cajitive.  and  hia  moclutry 

Acted  a|raiii.    Lo !  ■□  his  holy  Up 

The  vinegar  and  gall  ouce  more  applied ; 

And  ho  'Iwixt  iiviug  robbers  dooni'd  to  bleed. 

Lo !  the  new  Pilute,  of  wtioea  cruelty 

Such  violeucs  cuoiiot  fill  Llie  measuie  up. 

With  no  decree  to  oanctiun,  piuheit  on 

Into  the  temple'  hia  yet  eager  eaila. 

"  O  sovereign  Maiit«r  1*  when  shall  I  rejoio^ 


I 


Charles  of  Auina,  hnving.  cnnlTBry  to  the  direction »  ^^,_— 
Aflheft  edgqged  with  Roller  de  [AorlH,  the  fulnikr^i  <*^^ 

lODnEy.  manted  hlH  4aui;fater  to  Ax20  vm.  Marquis   *^^ 
ram.    I  lahoLaml*  lo  be  the  heronieinlliy  Peimre** 
Trianiph  uf  Pgma, 

aoel  dl  Lurla  Mgoln  U  SslBdino.  Cap.  I^  "^ 


In  Oampiifoii,  by  the  ntderof  PhlliolV,  in  iho  ye«l3"^r^ 
■ODD  after  dbd  of  grief.    Ck  VlilsDJ,  Ub.  vUL  c:i|i.e3.      ' 
planHd  Ood,  IbBkeiirtof  Bonlflice  btinf  palilfled  wlBX^f - 
thrmurb  tho  injury  be  had  BUaUiliHd,  n/hen  be  came  vr  ^^ 
be  fell  into  a  tmqge  malady,  fat  he  Eoawed  hlioHlt' 
ftantlc,  and  In  tM»  stale  ejLj^d."    Itiri  chuatlat  la  tf 
dinwn  liy  the  onaaUsl  In  the  neit  cbopler.    Tbn^My* 
.k.,,  1..  .i.„..ij  ._...  __  .1^  popedom  like  a  tut,  nlgn     * 


B  order  of  the  Tsmplan  hi  13]6.  \r*' 
iBiwi  a^iKaiB  mure  prohalile. 

tnri'B  eiplaDaiioD  or  IIiIb  paiuaee,  with  which  1  w*' 
trouble  the  reader,  ihaald  have  ulinnwleilied.  If  he  wo', 
■cloas  of  It,  that  Ui  owa  InteipietBUDii  or  it  was  ib» 


Of  I 

Tom 


I.  PURGATOKY,  Camto  XX. 

IB  the  VMgBancc,  which  [hy  wrath,  wBll-pleoBsd, 
oet  lileiiBB  broods? — While  dayli^lit  [aete, 
ng  whal  thou  didal  hear'  of  lier,  nolo  epauae 
ifi  Great  Spirit,  ond  on  which  Ihou  tum'dBt 


na,  then 

d 

t  of  gold 


Of  all  ourprayeiH:  hut,  whe 

A  dlffi-reot  strain  we  utter ; 

TS-gmalion,"  whom  hia  gluttc 

MmIo  Iraitor,  robber,  parrieii 

Of  Midns,  which  hia  greedy  wiah  ensued, 

Mark'd  for  derisian  lo  all  future  times: 

And  ttio  fond  Acban,'  how  be  stole  the  prey. 

That  yet  he  aeeins  by  Joehua'ti  ire  pursued. 

Sappfaira  with  her  huabaod  next  we  blame  ; 

And  praise  Che  forefeet,  that  with  furious  ramp 

Spurn'd  lleUodorua.'     All  tlie  mountain  round 

Rings  with  the  infamy  of  Thracia^s  king,^ 

Who  alew  bis  Phrygian  charge  ;  and  last  a  shout 

Ascends :  '  Declare,  O  CrBsaus  I'  for  thon  know'st, 

The  flavor  of  thy  gold.'     The  voice  of  each 

Now  liigh,  now  low,  as  each  liis  impulse  proajpta. 

Is  led  through  inuuy  a  pitch,  acute  or  grave. 

Therefore,  not  singly,  1  erewhile  rehearsed 

""^  i[  bleBMidneBS  we  tell  of  in  Iho  day ; 

6,  beside,  hia  accent  raised." 
ow  ]iad  parted,  and  eseay'd 
la  to  Burmaunt  tho  way ; 
»  nodding  to  ila  fall, 

before  given  by  Vellntel 
... accomr" 


»  PjliriKiio..] 


he  niurderci  of  PolTdo- 
o  fell  iidMnkbly  la  Ihe 


33S  THE  VISION.  at-iti. 

The  moimlttin  tramblo  ;  whence  ail  icy  chill 

Seized  oil  me,  as  on  one  to  death  convey'd. 

So  ahopk  not  DeloB,  when  Lalona  there 

Couch'd  to  bring  forth  the  Iwin-horn  eyes  of  lieavcu. 

Forthwith  from  every  side  n  ahout  arose 
So  vehement,  that  suddenly  my  guide  [thee." 

Drew  near,  and  cried :  "  Doubt  not,  while  I  conduct 
"  Gloiy !"  all  shouted,  {audi  the  sounds  mine  oar 
Gather'd  from  those,  who  near  me  sweird  the  eoands,) 
"  Glory  in  the  highest  be  to  God."    We  Wood 
Immoveably  suspended,  like  to  those, 
The  riiepheide,  who  liret  heard  m  Bethlehem's  iield 
That  sang-;  till  ceased  the  Iremhling,  and  the  song 
Was  ended:  then  oiu-  hallon'd  path  icBumed, 
le  prostrate  ehadows,  who  renew'd 
stom'd  mourning.     Never  in  my  breast 
i^in  ignoranee  so  struggle  vpith  desire 
Of  knowledge,  if  my  memory  do  not  err, 
As  Id  that  moment ;  nor  through  haste  dared  I 
To  quesliou,  nor  myself  could  aught  discern. 
So  on  1  fared,  in  thoughtfuluess  and  diead. 


Sc 


CANTO   XXI. 


Tho  Iwp  iiocls  ore  overtnlwa  by  Ihe  >iSrit  ur  aiaiiui,  who. 

TuE  natural  Ihirsl,  ne'er  queuch'd  but  from  tlie 
Whereof  the  woman  of  Samaria  craved,  [well' 

Excited ;  haste,  along  the  cumber'd  pntli. 
After  my  guide,  impetl'd ;  and  pity  moved 
My  bosom  for  the  'vengeful  doom  though  just. 
When  lo  !  even  as  Luke'  relates,  that  Christ 
Appear'd  unto  tbe  two  upon  their  way. 
New-risen  from  hie  vaulted  grave ;  to  us 
A  shade  appear'd,  and  after  ua  apprcach'd, 
Coatemplating  the  crowd  heueath  its  feeL 
We  were  not  wore  of  it ;  so  jiist  it  spokej 
Saymg,  "God  give  you  peace,  my  brethren i"  thmi 
Suddea  we  turn'd  :  and  Vjr^l  such  saluM, 
Ab  fitted  that  kind  greeting,  gave;  and  cried: 


Awarded  by  that  liglifeoufl  coi 
To  overlBsting  baQEalinieiit  eiUes."  [while 

"  How  I"  be  oiclaini'd,  nor  from  liib  Bjiaed  menn- 
DeaiBtingi'  "If  that  ye  bo  spiriu  whom  liod 
VouchsafeB  not  room  above  ;  who  up  the  height 
Has  been  thus  far  yonr  guido  ?"    To  wliom  the  bard : 

Traced  by  the  finger  of  the  augei,  bears  } 

'Tis  plain  that  in  the  kingdom  of  (he  just         [wheel 

He  needs   must   share.     But   sithence  she,'  whose 


Of  hell,  s 


audi 


ukno 


i:  lead 


Instruct  us  for  what  cause,  tlie  mount  erewhile 
Thus  shook,  and  trembled:  wherefore  all  at  once 
Seem'd  «hoiitingi  even  from  his  wave-w3flh'd  foot." 

Thus  questioniag  bo  tallied  with  my  wish. 
The  thirst  did  feel  ubatcmenl  of  ita  edgo 
E'en  from  eipeetance.     Ho  forthwith  replied : 
"  !□  ita  devotion,  naught  irregular 
Thia  mount  can  witnesE,  or  by  piuiolual  rulo 
Unsaactiou'd ;  here  frora  every  oliango  eiempt, 
Gthrr  than  that,  which  heaven  in  itself 
Doth  of  ilBulf  receive,'  no  influeuco 
Can  reach  us.     Tempest  none,  Bhower,  hail,  or  mow, 
Hoar  frost,  or  dewy  moiBtiieu,  iiigher  falls 
Than  that  brief  scale  of  tlufefold  HtepB :  thick  clouds, 
Nor  scudding  rack,  are  ever  seeji :  swift  glance 


pl  hli  bTorile  Nldolt 


>  Tlu  lokmi-i  Tlw  lellec  P 
1i  fonhBail  lif  the  Anffll.  1i 
licm  Id  hid  puKsage  through 

•  S*a1    LBnlHHli.oneDflh 

ilBlobaltihl. 


334  THE  VISION. 

Ne'er  tighteOB ;  nor  TliaumanCiaii'  Iiia  gteuna,    '■ 

Tbal  youder  often  ahlfU  on  each  eide  heaven. 

Vapor  adust  datli  iierer  itiouDt  above 

The  highest  aC  the  tiinnl  stairs,  wheieon 

Peter's  TicBgereot  stands.     Lower  perchance. 

With  various  motion  roek'd,  trerobiBB  the  rati : 

But  here,  through  wind  in  earth's  deep  hollow  p 

I  know  not  how,  yel  never  trembled :  then 

TrembleB,  when  any  ajurit  feels  itselt 

So  purified,  that  it  may  rise,  or  move 

For  rising ;  and  such  loud  acclaim  ensues. 

Purilication,  by  tho  will  alone, 

1h  proved,  that  free  to  change  society 

^eixes  the  booI  rejoicing  in  her  will 

Desire  of  bliaa  is  present  from  the  lirat ; 

But  strong  prDpension  hinders,  to  that  widi* 

By  the  just  ordinuice  of  heaven  oppoaad  ; 

Propenaion  now  as  eager  to  fulfil 

The  allotted  torment,  as  erewhile  to  nhi. 


A 

d  I,  who 

n  this  punishm 

f\ 

e  hundrec 

years  and  m 

re,  hut  now  have  Ut 

F 

ee  wish  fo 

bappier  clime 

Therefore  thou  fe 

T 

e  mountai 

d  the  spirits  devout 

uUer  praiBe 

■V 

that  hegi 

Lord,  whom 

entreat  their  joy 

■V 

I'hUB  he  apak 

\n 

rraleful  o 

er  as  the  thir 

s 

words  may  speak  my  f 

bieaa  of  content. 

That  takes  ye  here  ;  and  liow  the  toib  ore  loosed  ; 
Why  rocks  tho  mountain,  and  why  ye  rejoice. 
Vouchsafe,  thai  from  thy  lips  I  next  may  leam 
Who  on  the  earth  thou  wast ;  and  wherefore  hei^' J 


—no. 


rURGATORV,  CAirro  XXI. 

n  ag^,  vfCTtproBtraleJ" — "tnlhal 


^  *»  e»i  (ho  good  TilUB,'  witli  Heaven's  KinK  lo  hpip, 
-  ^'*''-'e!*d  Ihoso  piteouB  gashes, -whence  the  blood 
■■  Udaa  BOld  did  issao ;  with  the  name* 
'    'asting  and  most  honor'd,  there,  WBS  I 
'•^liDlly  retiowii'd,"thp  shade  replied, 
JVj_,  ~*    y«l  with/ailh-endued.    Sapaning  nnet 
1-*^,'*'o<sal  spirit     from  Tolosa,  Roma 
A.        ''^'^s^lfdrewme.whcrolmerited 
Sta.*  -■^'^^■e  garland' to  in  wreath  Jay  hrow 
And    i^    th^namemertill.     Of  Theb™  I  flang, 
Pdja  ^^=et  of  great  Aohilles    but  i' (he  way 
Tiin^  ■*'»^il:lilheaccondl)iirdBn.     Ofmyflanio 
J-'p^,^**     ^Jjarkles  werothe  weds,  wliioh  I  derived 
Tl.a»^  J^**"  'i"gl''  fountainorocleirtialfire 
VV|,i        *"^  cdBunnnmber'd  Inmps;  ths  song  I  meaii 
I   hi,  J:^     -Bunds  .Eneas'  WJinderings  ;  that  Iho  brpast 
^ra^jS"     jat:  Ihat  the  nnwe,  from  wliom  iny  veins 
W^^j^   ^^       »nBpiration    wh<>9e  authority 
t^oe-vi..^  r^'' •r  sacred  with  me.     To  liavn  lived 
The     ^  wHh  the  Mantuan,  I  would  bide 

^t^  y  «;»»^^  "^'Blntion  of  another  Bnn 

"fj-^^l^^niystBtedyearB  in  banishment." 
2;*'«i    ^^       MantUBO,  when  he  heard  him,  turu'd  to  me  j 
j:">3»ii^^^ldiiigiileiice,  by  his  comilenancB 


*^«~ 
-^  »>».«. 


rc.\^p'fe«= 

HofaurSiLvlauraallie  J 

fJcniuki 

^"^E 

m,  as  mmiy 

olher.  hsn 

'rrnir;",: 

vIlhTrlHl! 

thatlMlghlSlace. 

DyLomtaidi 

*    ..-.^        ESBzioJlT.,! 

fflFLancoracai 

ro.  .JmOTM. 

Fii.  Cant. 

336  THE  VISION. 

In  natures  moat  sincere.     I  did  but  smile. 
As  one  who  winka ;  and  theronpon  tli 
Broke  off,  and  peer'd  into  mino  eyes, 
Our  looks  inlerpret.     "  So  to  good  oveni 
Mayet  thou  nondnct  such  great  omprize, 
"  Say,  why  nproas  Ihy  Tisage  beain'd,  but  now. 
The  lightning  of  a  smile."    On  either  part 
Now  am  I  strniten'd ;  one  conjures  me  apeak. 
The  other  lo  silence  Wnda  me ;  whence  a  Bigh 
I  utter,  and  tlie  agtk  is  henrd.    "  Speak  on, 
Tlie  teacher  cried :  "  and  do  not  fear  10  speak  ; 
But  tell  liira  what  so  earnestly  he  asks." 
Whereon  I  Uius:  '•  Pcrchanco,  O  nnCient  spiiil 
Thoii  marveU'st  at  my  emiling.     There  is  rooiD 
He,  who  guides  my  koi 


Thon 
If  other 


lidBt  pi 


is  that  Moi 
iBofm 


LflBT 


it  for  which  I 
d  beliei 


nileU, 


words,  Ibou  apakest  of  hiiu,  indeed  the  oauso.' 
Now  down  he  bent  to  erobracB  my  teacher's  feel ; 
But  he  forbade  him :  "  Brotlier  I  do  it  not ; 
Thou  art  a  shadow,  and  behold'st  a  shade.' 
He,  rising,  anawer'd  tlius:  "Now  hast  thou  proved. 
The  force  and  ardor  of  (ho  lovB  I  bear  thee. 
When  I  forgot  we  are  but  thingn  Of  air, 
And,  OB  a  substance,  treat  an  empty  shade.'' 

CANTO    SXII. 


■t; 

i 


slag  W  Ih 


>i  ftnit,  and  w 


K«  right,  Ih^fii 


\s.  rec<irdLag  eiampLes  DftBnipenuiefl 
Now  WB  had  left  the  angel,  who  had  tum'd  J 

To  the  sixth  circle  our  ascending  step  ;  'l 

One  gosh  from  off  my  forebeiud  raiod;  wliile  the;,  ^ 
Whose  wishes  toad  to  justice,  shouted  forth, 
"  Blessed  !"■  and  ended  with  "  ' 


Mare  nimble  than  along  the  other  straits, 
So  joumoy'd,  that,  without  the  sense  of  toil, 
I  foUow'd  upward  tho  swift-footed  shadea  ; 
Wbeo  Virgil  thuabegao:  "Lot  its  pnro  flame 
From  virtue  flow,  and  lore  can  never  fail 
To  warm  another's  iKjeom,  bo  the  light 
Shine  manifestly  forth.     Hence,  from  that  hour, 
When,  'mongst  us  in  the  purlieus  oC  the  deep, 
Came  down  the  spirit  of  Aqultium's  bard,' 
Who  told  of  thino  atfeulion,  my  good  will 
Bath  been  for  thee  of  quality  a£  strong 
Ae  ever  link'd  itself  to  one  not  seen. 
Tlierelbce  these  atajts  will  now  seem  short  to  me. 
But  tell  me :  and,  if  too  secure,  I  loose 
The  lein  with  a  friend's  license,  as  a  friend 
Forgive  me,  and  speak  now  as  with  a  friead : 
How  chanced  it  covetous  dcaire  could  find 
Place  in  (hat  bosom,  'midst  such  ample  store 
Of  wisdom,  as  thy  zeal  had  troasiu^  there  ?" 

Finl  Bomewbat  moved  to  laughter  by  Ills  words, 
SlatiuB  replied  :i"  Each  syllable  of  thino 
Is  a  dear  pledge  ef  love.     Things  oft  appear, 
That  minister  false  matter  to  our  dotibU, 
When  [heic  true  causes  aio  removed  from  sight. 
Thy  question  doth  assura  me,  tbon  believcst 


And  e'en  for  that  eiceaa,tho 
Have  wtti'd  and  waned  upon  my  si 
And  were  it  not  that  I  with  heedful  cure 
Noted,  where  thou  eiclaini'st  as  if  in  ire 
Wuh  human  nature, '  Why,'  tliou  cursed  Ihirat 
Of  gold  I  dost  not  with  juater  measure  guide 
The  appetite  of  mortabi!'  I  liitd  met 
The  fierce  encounter"  of  the  voluble  rock. 
Than  was  I  ware  that,  with  too  ample  wmg. 
The  hands  may  haste  to  lavlsbment ;  and  (um'd. 


•»ra».]    Quill  d«l 
Veatutl 


33S 


THE  VISION. 


Aa  from  my  other  frvit,  >□  liom  Uub, 
In  penjlcncp.  How  irinny  &tiin  their  grvvc 
Shall  with  shorn  IocJib'  arise,  who  living-,  ay, 
And  a.1  lifo'e  last  extrenie.  of  this  off 
Throngh  ignorance,  (IM  not  repent ! 
The  taull,  which  lies  direct  from  an 
Jq  level  oppOBtion,  hero,  with  that, 
WasleB  its  green  rankoeBs  on  one  co 
'I'herefore,  if  I  have  been  with  those,  who  waif  ' 
Their  avarice,  1o  cleanse  me  \  through  reveiHe 
Of  tlieir  traoBirreBdon ,  such  hath  heen  my  loL** 
To  whom  the  sovereign  of  the  pastoral  song : 
*^  While  (hon  dirist  mng  that  cmel  warfare  waged 

From  Ihy  discourse  with  Clio"  there 
As  faith  had  not  been  Uiine ;  without  the  whi 
Good  deeds  sudice  not.    And  if  eo,  wha 
Rose  on  thee,  or  what  candle  pierced  tt 
That  thou  didst  after  see  to  hobe  the  sail. 
And  follow  where  the  fisherman  had  led?" 
He  aDHwering  tlina :  "  By  Ihee  condneted 
I  enter'd  tlie  Pamas^an  grolB,  and  quaff'd 
Of  tlie  clear  spring ;  illumined  first  by  thee, 

Opeu'd  mine  eyes  to  God.    Thou  didst, 

Who,  journeying  through  the  darhnesa, ' 
Behind,  that  prohtB  not  himself,  but  makes 
His  followers  wise,  when  thou  eicla' 
A  renovated  world,'  Justice  relum'd, 
Times  of  primeval  imioceoce  restored. 
And  a  new  race  descended  from  above.^ 
Poet  and  Christian  both  to  thee  I  owed. 
Tliat  thou  mayst  maA  more  clearly  what  I 
My  hand  shall  stretch  forth  to  inform  the  1* 
With  livelier  coloring.     Soon  o'er  all  the  w 
By  messengers  from  heaven,  the  true  belief 


'URGiTOBY,  CuiTO  XXII.  339 

Teem'd  now  prolific ;  tmd  thiit  word  of  tliino, 
Acconlaut,  to  the  new  instructors  cliini«d. 
Induced  by  which  aereenient,  I  was  wont 
Resort  (o  UiBDi ;  iind  Buou  their  aanclity 
So  won  upon  me,  that,  Domitiaa'a  rage 
Purauing  them,  I  mix'd  my  tearg  with  theirs ; 
And,  while  on  earth  I  etay'd,  alill  liuccor'd  them  ; 
And  their  most  righteous  customs  made  me  scom 
All  sects  besides.     Before'  1  led  the  Greeks, 
In  tuneful  liclion,  to  the  slrsams  of  I'hebes, 
I  was  baptized  ;  but  secretly,  through  fear. 
Rema'm'd  a  Ctirigliaa,  and  conform'd  long  time 
To  Pagan  ritaa.     Four  eonlaries  and  more, 
I,  for  that  inkewBrmneaa,  was  fain  to  pace 
Round  the  fourth  circle.    Thou  then,  who  hsst  raised 
The  CQveriug  which  did  hide  such  blesaug  from  me, 
Wbile  inncli  of  this  ascent  is  yet  to  clinib, 
Say,  if  thou  know,  where  our  old  Terence"  bides, 
Csciliua,'  Pluutus,  Varro:*  if  condemu'd 
They  dwell,  and  ui  what  province  of  the  deep." 
"  These,"  said  my  guide,  "  with  Petsiua  and  myeelf. 
And  otbers  many  more,  are  with  that  Greek,' 
or  mortals,  the  most  cherish'd  by  the  mne. 
Id  the  first  ward*  of  darkness.     There,  oft-tunes. 
We  of  that  mount  hold  converse,  on  wlioee  lop 
For  aye  our  nursex  Uve.    We  have  the  bard 
Of  Pella,'  aud  the  Teian,"  Agatha,' 


Oui  Poel  ha^  Horu 


■ailu,  niiDiu  M 


v'fl 

nm^ 

„„^„, 

jeonlo. 

«^«a».)    Cbnucer,  Bpoakm 
loB  ol  AleenUi,  refers  lo  Aesio 

uarepme 

340  THE  VISION. 

Simoiiidea,  and  muiy  a  Grecian  elee 

IngsrlBnded  with  laarel.    Of  tliy  Iraiu,' 

Antigone  ie  tbere.  Delphile, 

Ar^a,  and  as  wnowful  as  erst 

Isinene,  and  who  ahow'd  Limgk'B  wave 

Deldamia  with  her  wslen  there, 

And  blind  Tireoiiis'  daughter,'  and  the  brido 

tia  wonder  It  thnnafa  Jqtb  Iwr  stfllliOo, 
Ai  lellllh  AedLon  tor  her  goudueiuie. 

J-tgenie  of  Qaai  ffrft^^^^ 
AiidMr.Tymbmiel1inilbBl"hDhiuiiDlh1iiKlon.Tiifi^^H 

Prid.UiIliBlFaifdloorCamlilKubrThoniuPrenon.    T^i^  >   „ 
■'"  —  ^-Mn."  ha  iiddi,  "  for  fluppcHing  with  GIch.  Vt.  tlutf 
int.  nr  any  lA  tlie  Apithoat  aI 


■  .  f<,  pDB^bLB  Ibat  Ihe  atlu^DD  In  Chaucsr  nii^ht  havn  artua : 
fv  htait  lih  h  a  ii^a  r^H  Yyvfilftiav  tirriv  itaiidriiit,  ri  At 
£\\a  iimii^tra-  ir  Mais  li  oiBly  uln  h  r^  'AyilBuni 
'AyOiu  6/id[io;  ylf  In  roiiru  to  ri  rpdyiitra  cai  ri 
lnSliara  iriiTOfiirai,  jcs)  Mir  frrin  d<Pfalni.  Edll.  VJH. 
p.^  "Tbeie  are.  hawsver,  >Dme  lngedLl^s.  In  which  OH 
oc  (WO  of  IhB  nauies  are  hiBloriul,  Md  Ibe  nst  ftjinedi 
e  of  Ilia  nanwt  are  UfldO- 


est ;  Each 

u  Aicalhn'i  meedr  »>ll») 

=,«£■;« 

I  Of  Iks 

ro™.)    "OfthoBoMlol,! 

led  ta  Iby  Poem." 

HyiBiidle.    S»  a 

la- daughter.]    Danw,  as 

wn«  have  Ui™ht.  b~l 

1 

\ 

1 

PURGATORY,  Canto  XXII.  341 

of  FeleHB.'"    Either  pa»t  now 
Wai  BiJeat ;  and  no  lougei  by  tlie  ascent 
"      '      iteep  wbUb  obslructed,  round  them  CMist 
..    ,       ig  eyes.    Four  handmaid^  of  the  day 
Hod  finish'd  now  their  oHice,  and  Che  flfth 
Was  at  the  chaiiot-beain,  direclmg  slill 
Its  Bsmy  point  aloof ;  when  thus  my  gnide  : 
"  Methmka,  it  well  behooves  us  to  the  brink 
Bead  the  ligiit  ehouldei,  circuiting  the  raoant, 
Ab  wb  hsTe  ever  lued."     So  ciiatom  there 
Was  nsher  to  the  road  ;  the  wliicfa  we  chose 
Less  doubtful,  aa  that  worthy  Kbade^  complied. 

They  on  before  me  went:  I  sole  puraued, 
Listening  their  speech,  that  to  my  thoughts  convey'd 
MysterioUB  lessons  of  sweet  poesy. 
But  soon  they  ceased  ;  for  midway  of  the  road 
A  tree  we  found,  with  goodly  fruitage  hung. 
And  pleasant  to  the  smell :  and  as  a  tir, 
Upward  fiom  bough  to  bough,  le»3  ample  epreada ; 
80  downward  this  less  ample  spread  ;*  that  none, 
Methioks,  aloft  may  clunb.     Upon  the  wdo, 
That  closed  our  path,  a  liquid  crystal  fell 
Fiom  the  steep  rock,  and  through  the  eprays  above 
Stteam'd  showering.    W^ib  associate  step  the  baida 
Drew  near  the  plant ;  an(},  from  amidst  the  leaves, 
A  voice  was  heard  :  "  Ys  shall  be  chary  of  me  ;" 

Lombudt.  or  n-lher  the  DeUa  Ciuaca  academLciaiiB.  Ktcasa 
DDT  author  beuer,  by  nbseivta^  that  Tlrealas  bad  a  daoEhter 


er  of  JJercules- 

timi  0/ P<J<M.]    Tbelij. 


btch'd  forUi  lbs  broachH. 


343  THE  VISION.  13t-^ 

And  aflpr  sililvil :  "  Mary  tooli  iitore  tliuught' 
For  juy  luid  liuuur  of  the  nuptial  feast, 
Tlian  for  heiself,  who  answi^ra  now  for  you. 
The  women  of  old  Rome'  were  aatisGed 
With  water  for  their  beverage.    Daniel'  fbd 
On  pulse,  and  inBdam  gain'd.    The  primal  age 
Was  beautiful  as  gold  :  and  hunger  then 
Made  acornn  tasteful ;  thiiBt,  each  rivulet 
Run  neutar.    Honey  and  locuata  were  the  food, 
Whereun  the  Baptist  in  the  wildernesB 
Fed,  and  (liat  eminence  of  glory  leoch'd 
And  greatnesB,  which  th'  Evangelist  recorda." 


CANTO   XXII  I. 


On  tho  green  ieat  inine  eyea  we 
Who  throws  awajc  his  days  in  idle 
Of  the  diminutive  birda,  when  thus 
The  more  than  father  warn  mo  :  •' 
Asks  thriftier  unng.     Linger  not ; 

Thereat  my  face  and  stepe  st  once  I  tiim'd 
Toward  the  sages,  by  whose  conveiBe  cbeer'd 
I  jouroey'd  on,  and  felt  no  tml :  and  lo  1 
A  nound  of  weeping,  and  a  song :  "  My  lips, 

1  JVorfUet  imrc  Oifugkl.i  "The  bIsBod  Tircia,  whou- 
swBn  fix  you  UDW  La  heaven,  when  she  nld  to  Jeqiu,  u  (be 
marriage  in  Gaoa  of  Gal[lefl, '  Ihcy  have  na  nine.'  re|udBd 
hnt  Ihp  ^TAtlGcalUm  of  her  own  luLo,  bnt  the  honor  of  [ha 
Diipllal  InnqueL" 

s  TlicKaiiumiifMEiimi.]   See VilcrlmMaiimiiB, l.U.e.1. 


lehiKl- 

1 


PUROATORV,  C*NTQ  XXIII.  343 

O  Lonl '."  and  lhc«e  wi  mliigkcl,  IL  gnva  birtli 
To  pleasure  and  (□  pain.  "  O  ISire  beloved  I 
Say  wliat  is  thia  I  hear,"     Tlina  1  inquired. 

"  Spirita,"  said  ho,  "  who,  aa  they  go,  perchanco, 
Theii  debl  of  doty  psy."     Ab  on  Iheir  road 
The  thoughtful  pilgrims,  CFVortaking  come 
Not  known  unto  them,  turn  to  them,  nnd  look, 
But  stay  nol ;  thua.  upproaching  from  behind 
With  speedier  motion,  eyed  oa,  aa  they  pnas'd, 
A  crowd  of  spirits,  wlent  and  devout. 
The  eyes'  of  each  were  dark  and  hollow ;  pale 
Their  visage,  and  so  lean  withal,  the  bones  i 

Stood  staring  tlirough  the  skin.     I  do  not  think 
TTniB  dry  and  meager  Erisicthon  show'd. 
When  pinch'd  by  shaip-set  famine  to  the  qniek. 

"  Lo  ;"  to  myself  I  mused,  "  tho  race,  who  lost 
Jerusalem,  when  Mary'  with  dire  beek 
Prey'd  on  her  child."     The  sockets  aeem'd  as  rings,' 
Froin  which  the  gems  were  dropp'd.   Who  reads  the 
Of  man  upon  bia  forehead,  there  ihe  M  [oaiae' 

Had  traced  most  plainly.     Who  would  deem,  that 

i        Of  water  and  an  apple  could  have  proved         [ncent 
Powerful  to  generate  such  pining  w»nt, 
Not  knowing  how  it  wrougbtt     While  now  I  stood. 
Wondering  what  thus  could  waste  them,  (for  the  cauBe 

r       Of  their  gaunt  hollowneas  and  acaly  rind 


n  catlB.  per  qnun  tpeclui  viicera  pouenL '. 

n  lub  indorvli  eulabuil  srlili  luiubla. 

Vftry,]    Josepbm,  4e  Bella  Jnd..  lib.  vll,  c.  nl.  p, 


341  THE  VISION.  38-75. 

Oil  tn»,  then  cri^d  with  vobemeuce  nloud  ; 

'^  W]iat  grace  u  thia  vauchealed  me  7^^     By  his  looks 

I  ab'ar  bod  recognised  him  :  but  the  voice 

Brought  to  my  knowledge  what  his  cheer  ccmceal'iL 

Remembrance  ol'  hia  aJter'd  liaeninenls 

Was  kindled  from  that  apttrk ;  and  1  agnized 

The  tisago  of  Forese.'     "  Ah  1  respect 

Thia  wan  ood  leprooB-wither'd  akin,"  thue  hs 

Suppliimt  unplored,  "  thia  maceraled  flesli. 

Speak  to  me  truly  of  tbyaelf.    And  nho 

Are  thoee  twain  apiritB,  that  eecort  thee  there  1 

Be  il  not  said  Ibou  scom'at  to  Ulk  with  me." 

"  That  face  of  thine,"  1  anawer'd  him,  "  whicbdead 
1  ODce  bewail'd,  disposes  mo  not  less 
For  weeping,  when  1  see  it  thoE  traQsform'd. 
Say  then,  by  Heaven,  what  blasts  ye   thiis7     The 
I  wonder,  ask  not  speech  from  me  ;  unapt        [whjhl 
Is  he  to  speak,  whom  other  will  employa." 

Ha  thus :  "  The  water  and  the  plant,  we  pia^ii 
With  power  are  gifted,  by  the  eternal  will  . 

Infnsed  ;  the  which  so  pines  me.     Every  Bpljlt> 
Whose  song  bewails  his  gluttony  indulged 
Too  grassly,  here  in  hnnger  and  in  thirst 
la  purilied.    The  odor,  which  llie  iruit. 
And  apray  that  showere  npoa  the  verdure,  tmatlM, 
Inflamos  ub  with  desire  tu  feed  aud  drink. 
Nor  ouce  aloae,  encompoHiiiig  our  route. 
We  conie  to  odd  tre^  fuel  to  the  pain: 
Pain,  Bsid  1?  solace,  rather:  far  tjiut  will. 
To  the  tree,  leads  us,  by  which  Chrot  was  led 
To  call  on  EH,  joyful,  when  he  paid 
Our  ransom  from  hin  vein."     I  eoBwering  thua  : 
"  Forese  ',  bom  that  day,  in  wliich  llie  world 
For  belter  Ute  thou  chaagedst,  not  five  yaara 
Have  circled.    If  the  power'  of  sinning  more 
Were  first  concluded  in  Ihee,  ere  Ihou  knew"* 
That  kindly  grief  which  re-espouses 
To  God,  how  liiUier  art  Ihou  come  i 

'  Fiir'^'.l  OBeofihebiDihrnofPicrar 


1 


,'f,;s. 


idsl  Jclay  thy  i 


0.  PURGATORY.  Ciwra  XXIll.  345 

1  thought  to  Gnd  thee  lower,'  there,  where  time 
1b  recoiiipeade  far  dme."     He  struighl  replied: 
"  To  drink,  up  the  sweet  woimwood  of  uMiclioa 
I  have  been  brought  thus  eurly,  by  the  loars 
Stream'd  down  my  Nella's'  cheeks.     Her  prayetB 

Hei  sigbs  have  drawn  me  from  tile  coast,  where  oft 

From  the  other  circ)<!8.     In  (ho  sight  of  God 
So  much  the  dearer  is  ray  widow  prized, 
She  whom  I  loved  so  fondly,  as  she  ranks 
More  sin^y  eminent  for  virtnona  deeds. 
The  tract,  most  barbarou'!  of  Snrdinia'e  isle,' 
Hath  dunes  more  chaste,  and  modester  by  far. 
Than  that  wherein  1  left  her.    O  sweet  brother ! 

lat  wouldst  thou  have  me  say  T*    A  tune  to  come 
Stands  full  within  my  view,  to  which  this  honr 
Shall  not  be  counted  of  aa  aucient  date, 
When  &om  tho  pulpit  shall  he  loudlv  wam'd 
The  unblushing  dames  of  Florence,   lest  they  bare 
Unkerchiet'd  bosoms  to  the  common  gaie. 
What  savage  women  hath  the  world  e'pr  Been, 
What  Saracens,'  for  whom  there  needed  scourge 
Of  spiritual  or  other  discipline, 
To  force  them  walk  with  covering  on  their  limbal 

L  ZjiiDer.J    Is  (he  Anttf-Fvi^lory.    Sue  Contu  U- 

iMt^fUl*-)    The  wl<e  of  FoFiw. 

■  71*  Inut,  MMl  iariBTHH  pfSardinm-t  file.]    The  Bar- 

sccnflDi  ofthe  nndviUieil  la^Ia  of  lu  l^hlttiu^,  who 'urn 
■aid  to  have  ^ne  noorly  naked- 


ayi,"  lan  ll,a  commEnlauir,  "no  lei. 

■,  the  Florenllae  Isdles  eipoaod  Ihe  neck  and  boaooi,  s 
drBH,  nodonbLv  njoretnllslils  ton  hsrlotEhao  a  maUoq.  Bui, 
■s  Ibflv  chan^  aoDn  Altsr,  InnofiniFh  tiMt  they  wore  coJIan 
up  to  the  cUn>  coverlDg  the  whule  of  Iha  aeek  and  IhroAI,  m 
liave  1  bope*  they  win  chapn  aeais ;  not  iadeed  bo  mach 
ftoB  iDodvAt  of  aecflscjH  aa  throuMh  thai  flckleneis  whidl] 
ftmSi  trmrj  mioa  of  iheh' llve>." 

•  SaraeoH.)  "Thiaword,  dnring  Ihe  middle  ages,  was  In- 
dberimlnalely  applied  to  FagiRi  and  Mahomelaoa ;  In  ihon. 
to  ill  KliDna  (eieepl  the  Jewt]  who  did  nnl  proTeu  Chrii- 
ttanllv."  JA-.  EUii'i  ^Hiniai  of  Xarlf  eniliih  JHctrical 
Kemamia.  vol.  i,  p.  190,  {a  nolE,|  Loud.  §vo.  im. 


1-ao.  PURGATORY,  Canto  XXIV.  347 

that  leeord  ancient  examples  of  ginttony ;  and  nnoceeding 
rurwanb,  fhey  are  directed  by  an  angel  which  way  to 
ascend  to  the  next  cornice  of  the  mountain. 

Our  journey  was  not  slacken'd  by  our  talk, 
Nor  yet  our  talk  by  journeying.     Still  we  spake. 
And  ui^d  our  travel  stoutly,  like  a  ship 
When  the  wind  sits  astern.     The  shadowy  forms. 
That  seem'd  things  dead  and  dead  agsun,  drew  in 
At  their  deep-delved  orbs  rare  wonder  of  me. 
Perceiving  I  had  life  ;  and  I  my  words 
Continued,  and  thus  spake :  "  He  journeys'  up 
Perhaps  more  tardily  than  else  he  would, 
For  others'  sake.     But  tell  me,  if  thou  know'st, 
Where  is  Piccarda  T*     Tell  me,  if  I  see 
Any  of  mark,  among  this  multitude 
Who  eye  me  thus." — "  My  sister  (she  for  whom, 
'Twixt  beautiful  and  good,*  I  cannot  say 
Which  name  was  fitter)  wears  e'en  now  her  crown, 
And  triumphs  in  Olympus."     Saying  this, 
He  added :  "  Since  spare  diet^  hath  so  worn 
Our  semblance  out,  'tis  lawful  here  to  name 
Each  one.     This,"  and  his  finger  then  he  raised, 
"  Is  Buonaggiunta,^ — Buonaggiunta,  he 


1  He  journeys.']  The  soul  of  Statins  perhaps  proceeds  more 
slowly,  in  order  that  he  may  enjoy  as  long  as  possible  the 
company  of  Virgil. 

3  Piccarda."]    See  Paradise,  Canto  iii. 

*  '  Taixt  beautiful  and  grood.] 

Tra  bella  e  onosta 

Qiial  fa  piu,  lascib  in  dubbio. 

Petrarca^  Son.  Ripenaando  a  quel. 
«  Diet.]    Dieta. 

And  dieted  with  fasting  every  day. 

Spenser,  F.  Q.,h-  \.  c.  i.  st.  26. 

Spare  fast  that  oft  with  gods  doth  diet. 

Milton,  n  Penaeroao. 

B  Bfumaggiunta.']  Buonaggiunta  Urbiclani,  of  Lucca. 
**  There  is  a  canzone  by  this  poet,  printed  in  the  collection 
made  by  the  Giunti,  (p.  209,)  and  a  sonnet  to  Guide  Guini- 
celli  in  that  made  by  Corbinelli,  (p.  169,)  from  which  we  col- 
lect that  he  lived  not  alraut  1230,  as  Quadrio  supposes,  (t.  ii. 
p.  159,)  but  towards  the  end  of  the  thirteenth  century  Con- 
cerning other  poems  by  Buonaggiunta,  that  are  preserved  in 
MS.  in  some  libraries,  Crescimbeni  may  be  consulted."  Ti- 
raboaehi,  Mr.  Mathias^s  ed.,  v.  i.  p.  115.  Three  of  these,  a 
canzone,  a  sonnet,  and  a  ballata,  have  been  published  in  the 
Anecdota  Literarla  ex  MSS.  Codicibus  erula,  8vo.  Roma,  (no 
yearj  v.  iii.  p.  453.  He  is  thus  mentioned  by  our  author  in 
his  Treatise  de  Vulg.  Eloq.,  lib.  1.  cap.  xiil.  "  Next  let  ns 
come  to  the  Tuscans,  who,  made  senseless  by  their  folly, 
arrogantly  assume  to  themselves  the  title  of  a  vernacular 


\ 


n 

■                            ^___ —. 

f 

348                        THE  VISION.                      SItM. 

Of  Lucca:  and  that  face  beyond  him,  jnerasd 

Ullto  a  loaner  fineneee  than  tho  roet, 

Hud  keeping  of  the  church  ;  ho  waa  of  Toura," 

And  pnrgoB  by  wan  abstinence  away 

Bolsenii's  eels  and  cups  of  muBcadsl."' 

diellnn,  innrc  DiceUBniihso  the  ibsI  ;  nor  are  tbF  vnlgitKldne 

sE.ri'»«Lr.r.s::sr,;'S-s: 

lninii  Ihem.  will  be  fonod  not  10  bo  in  (be  dlcUon  of  the  coqn, 

(ml  In  lb»i  of  Ibri.  reipedUvB  dlim." 

inhn  Ihe  fullowlng  Sonael  Shii  Cotbliwlll'a  ColJecUon  added 

ami  nomo  i  In  sn  Is  rola  jwi  Vanmni, 

Cha  quando  plu  iL  moitra  chliira,  a  pnra. 

ALloril  Rlia.  ed  hallo  dUbunla. 

E  qDiHIa  iBrcio,  ebs  STvlan  per  niinin ; 

Nan  il  1^  noma  Irapin  rBllegrara 

Che  mU  e  gran  doglla.  nlli-groiM  te'lllra; 

i«  SMi  Mm<^  e  Riwi  J»»<t<.  ^ii.  M™..  ITIS,  p-lTO 

Wbsl  man  In  mlied  <hi  Fomne'i  wheel  ilolt, 

Lei  him  BUI  Ulumpb  in  hl9  lilln  einta : 

Frenh  wae  Iho  venJnra  In  Ihe  >iiiiiiy  ciofl,                      1 

And  thin|SE.allod  moil.  a»  c-hnneelh  od, 
Fall Iteni  nn  high  to  eanh  »lih  min  gnat. 

■ 

Therefire  «UBhi  nona  loo  jrenils  to  [e)d» 

Fcone,  ^X  ulumgh,.  peal  ,»^  I.  «.  JUL 

L 

And  he  iru»t  dnwo,  thnt  i<  loo  prooi  and  bold  - 

m 

■ 

For  every  inounaln  aloopelh  lo  Ihe  veJo. 

■ 

1  fli  m«  nf  Tlwrr.)    SlinDn  of  Tonn  beeemo  pope  nilh 

■ 

UMUdeofHnrUn  IV.  In  1381,  and  died  tn  ISW. 

■ 

■ 

BdlUon  and  iho  Monle  Onwino  MS.  ifroe  in  randlng 

r 

L-aoBuUlD  di  Kolaenn  In  In  vemncclni 

froD,  v,hlch  11  WE.nld  iHicin.  thnl  MnrOn  the  Ponrlh  refined  >o 

Ihe  wine  called  veinactia.  In  DlileE  lo  heilhlen  Uioll  flavor. 
The  Latin  nnnotaior  on  the  MS.  (elnlee,  Out  tho  followlBd 

Epitaph  WMa  inscribed  on  the  >epnlehTB  of  IhB  pope : 

tinudenl  anEUlllE,  quod  morluui  hie  Jacal  ills, 

aoi  qunal  fflorle  ten.  eidorlnbal  bm. 

1 

M 

PURGATORY,  Canto  XXIV.  349 

He  ahow'd  me  many  others,  one  by  one : 

all,  as  they  were  named,  seemed  well  content ; 
^OT  no  dark  gesture  I  discem'd  in  any. 
saw,  through  hunger,  Ubaldino^  grind 
[is  teeth  on  emptinras ;  and  Boniface,' 
^X'hat  waved  the  crosier*  o'er  a  numerous  flock : 
X  sa'w  the  Marquis,^  who  had  time  erewhile 
*To  swill  at  Forli  with  less  drought ;  yet  so, 
^Vas  one  ne'er  sated.     I  howe'er,  like  him 
That,  gazing  'midst  a  crowd,  singles  out  one. 
So  singled  him  of  Lucca ;  for  methought 
Was  none  amongst  them  took  such  note  of  me. 
Somewhat  I  heard  him  whisper  of  Gentucca  :* 
The  sound  was  indistinct,  and  murmur'd  there,' 
Where  justice,  that  so  strips  them,  fix'd  her  sting. 
"  Spirit !"  said  I,  "  it  seems  as  thou  wouldst  fain 
Speak  with  me.     Let  me  hear  thee.     Mutual  wish 
To  converse  prompts,  which  let  us  both  indulge." 

He,  answering,  straight  began :  "  Woman  is  bom, 
Whose  brow  no  wimple  shades  yet,''^  that  shall  make 


1  maldino.]  Ubaldino  degli  Ubaldini,  of  Pila,  in  the  Flor- 
entine territory. 

*  Boniface.]  Archbishop  of  Ravenna.  By  Venturi  he  is 
called  Bonifazio  do'  Fieschi,  a  Genoese ;  by  Vellutcllo,  the 
son  of  the  above-mentioned  Ubaldini;  and  by  Landino, 
Francioso,  a  Frenchman. 

*  Crosier.]  It  is  uncertain  whether  the  word  "  rocco,"  in 
the  original,  means  a  "  crosier"  or  a  "  bishop's  rochet,"  that 
is,  his  episcopal  gown.  In  support  of  the  latter  interpreta- 
tion Lombardi  cites  I)u  Fresne's  Glossary,  article  Roccus. 
**  Rochettum  hodie  vocant  vestem  linteam  episcoporum  .  .  . 
quasi  parvum  roccum ;"  and  explains  the  verse, 

Che  pasturb  col  rocco  molte  genti : 

*'who,  from  the  revenues  of  his  bishoprick,  supported  in 
luxury  a  large  train  of  dependants."  If  the  reader  wishes  to 
learn  more  on  the  subject,  he  is  referred  to  Monti's  Proposta, 
under  the  word  "  Rocco." 

*  The  Marquis.]  The  Marchese  de'  Rigogliosi,  of  Forli. 
When  his  butler  told  him  it  was  commonly  reported  in  the 
city  that  he  did  nothing  but  drink,  he  is  said  to  have  answered : 
"  And  do  you  tell  them  that  I  am  always  thirsty." 

0  Gentucca.]  Of  this  lady  it  is  thought  that  our  Foot 
became  enamored  during  his  exile.  See  note  to  Canto 
X2ud.  56. 

«  There.]  In  the  throat,  the  part  in  which  they  felt  the 
torment  inflicted  by  the  divine  justice. 

t  Whose  brow  no  wimple  shades  yet.]  "  Who  has  not  yet 
assumed  the  dress  of  a  woman." 


A 


THE  VISION. 


My  city  pleaBS  Uiee,  blams  it  aa  they  may.' 
Go  then  wilh  this  fbrewsming.    If  aught  elas 
My  whispeT  too  implied,  the  eveat  aliall  leLL 
But  say,  if  o!  a.  truth  1  me  the  man 
or  that  new  lay  the  iuveutor>  which  begins 
With  '  Xdihea,  ye  that  con  the  lore  of  li^e.' ' 

To  whom  1  thus:  "  Count  uf  me  but  as 
Who  am  the  scribe  of  love  ;  that,  when  h< 
Take  up  my  pen,  aad,  as  he  dictates,  writ 

'*  Brother  I"  said  he,  ^*  the  hind^ranee  which  onoe 
The  notarj%'  with  Guillone'  and  myself,  [held 


«  T*r  Mlnrj.l    Jacopo  th  LeullBO,   Mlled   |]ib   NoUwJ,  ^* 
pnelof  Ihesn  dmea.    He  wa>  prdbably  an  Apollsn:  tor  Dula 
(DeVnle.  Eloq..  lib.  i,  cap.  1%)  quailne  a  vene  whteb  bridnp 

tloDSng  thB  writer's  Daide.  termi  him  one  of  "the  UlusurloDI 
ApuhatiA,"  pmCulgeDteB  ApnlL  fiee  TlraboHhl.  Mr.  Ma- 
del  prime  eecolo  ijoLIa  LiDgan  Itatinna,  3  vol.  8vo.  Flranm, 


9  wis  nf  Ihc  Older  or  the  "  Fiali  Godenll."  orwblEli 
il  may  be  Ken  In  the  nnles  ID  Hell.  Cnnta  uDI. 
ar  1393  he  fciiadHl  a  monuUrr  of  lbs  order  ar 
,  In  Florence,  and  died  la  (be  IbUowIni  vaac. 
I,  ibid.  p.  119.  Danle.  Id  Ibe  TreaOxe  da  4s)c 
1.  rap.  li  (<eB  note  t„  V.  BO,  above.)  and  lib.  U.  a 


ffWPO.  PURGATORY,  Canto  XXIV.  361 

Short  of  that  new  and  sweeter  style'  I  hear, 
Is  now  disclosed :  I  see  how  ye  your  plnmos      [tkm. 
Stretch,  as  the  mditer  guides  them ;  which,  no  ques- 
OuiB  did  not.    He  that  seeks  a  grace  beyond, 
Sees  not  the  distance  parts  one  style  from  other." 
And,  as  contented,  here  he  held  his  peace. 

Like  as  the  birds,^  that  winter  near  the  Nile, 
In  squared  regiment  direct  their  course, 
Then  stretch  themselves  in  file  for  speedier  flight ; 
Thus  all  the  tribe  of  spirits,  as  they  tuni'd 
Their  viscige,  faster  fled,  nimble  alike 
Through  leanness  and  desire.     And  as  a  man. 
Tired  with  the  motion  of  a  trotting  steed,* 
Slacks  pace,  and  stays  behind  his  company. 


Gran  piacer  Signer  mio,  e  gran  desire 

Harei  d*essere  avanti  al  divln  trono, 

Dove  si  prender&  pace  e  perdono 

Dl  suo  ben  iktto  e  d'ogni  suo  fallire  ; 
E  gran  piacer  harei  hor  di  sentire 

Q,aella  sonante  tromba  e  quel  gran  suono, 

E  d*udir  dire :  hora  venuti  sono, 

A  chi  dar  pace,  a  chi  crudel  niartire. 
Qnesto  tutto  vorrei  caro  signore ; 

Perch^  fia  scritto  a  ciaschedun  nel  volto 

Quel  ch^  gift  tenne  ascoso  dentro  al  core  : 
Allhor  vedrete  a  la  niia  fronte  avvolto 

Un  brieve,  che  dir& ;  che  M  cnido  amore 

Per  vol  me  prese,  e  mai  non  m'  ha  disciolto. 

Great  joy  it  were  to  me  to  join  the  throng, 

That  thy  celestial  throne,  O  Lord,  surround, 
Where  perfect  peace  and  pardon  shall  be  found, 
Peace  for  good  doings,  pardon  for  the  wrong : 

Great  joy  to  hoar  the  vault  of  heaven  prolong 
That  everlasting  trumpet's  mighty  sound. 
That  shall  to  each  award  their  final  bound. 
Wailing  to  these,  to  those  the  blissful  song. 

All  this,  dear  Lord,  were  welcome  to  my  soul. 
For  on  his  brow  then  every  one  shall  bear 
Inscribed,  what  late  was  hidden  in  the  heart ; 

And  round  my  forehead  wreath'd  a  letter'd  scroll 
Shall  in  this  tenor  my  sad  fate  declare  : 
*'  Love's  bondman  I  from  him  might  never  part.'* 

Bottarl  doubts  whether  some  of  the  sonnets  attributed  to 
Guittone  in  the  Rime  Antiche  are  by  that  writer.  See  his 
notes  to  Lettere  di  Fra  Guittone,  p.  135. 

^  Tliat  new  and  sweeter  style.]  lie  means  the  style  intro- 
duced in  our  Poet's  time. 

s  The  birds.]  Hell,  Canto  v.  46.  Euripides,  Helena,  1495, 
and  Statius,  Theb.,  lib.  v.  12. 

'  TiredwitAthemotioHof  a  trotting  steed.]  I  have  followed 
Ventnri's  explanation  of  this  passage.   Others  understand 

di  trottaie  d  lasso, 

of  the  fatigue  produced  by  running. 


353  TIIE  VISION.  -Jl-VS. 

Till  hia  o'pibTealbed  Itines  keep  temperate  tloio ; 
E'en  BO  Foceae  let  tlist  Roly  crew 
Proceed,  behind  Ibem  lingenng  at  my  side, 
And  Baying:  "  Wbeii  tiliall  I  again  bebold  thee?" 

"  UowloDg  mylife  may  last,"  said  I,"  I  know  not: 
Tbia  know,  bow  soon  eoever  1  return, 
My  wiahea  will  before  me  have  arrived: 
Sithence  the  place,'  where  I  am  set  to  live, 
1h,  duy  by  day,  more  acoop'd  of  all  its  good  ; 
And  diraiial  ruin  aeema  to  threaten  iL" 

"  Go  now,"  ho  cried:  "  lo  !  he,'wboBe  guill  iBinoel, 
FusHos  before  my  vision,  dragg'd  at  hetle 
Of  an  iufurista  beast.     Towaji]  the  vale. 
Where  guilt  hath  no  redemption,  ou  it  Bpeeda, 
Each  step  Lncreaaiiig  uwiftiieu  on  the  last ; 
Until  a  blow  it  strikes,  that  leaveth  him 
A  corse  meet  vilely  ehatter'd.     No  long  epaco 
Those  wheels  liavo  yet  lo  roU,"  (therewith  hia  eyes 
Look'd  up  to  heaven,)  "  ere  Ihou  shall  plainly  see 
That  which  my  words  may  not  more  plainly  tell. 
I  quit  (bee :  lime  is  precious  bore :  I  lose 
Too  much,  thus  measuring  my  pace  with  thine." 

As  from  a  troop  of  welt-rank'd  cliivalry. 
One  knight,  more  euterprieing  than  the  rest. 
Pricks  forth  at  gallop,  eager  to  display 
His  prowess  in  the  first  enconnler  proved  ; 
So  parted  he  from  us,  with  lengthen'd  stridea  ; 
And  left  me  on  the  way  with  those  twain  apirita, 
Who  were  eueh  mighty  marshals  nf  the  world. 

When  he  beyond  us  had  bo  fled,  mine  eyes 
No  nearer  reach'd  him,  than  tny  thought  his  words ; 
The  branches  of  another  fruit,  thick  hung. 


■  n^pla^c]    norence. 

'  He,]    Cnrao  DonBli  was  Biispecled  of  aimbig  uI  the  mi^ 

and  slain,  A.  D.  130S.  Tha  eo]itaiupuraryaiuuLUB(,a1l0rnilife- 
llDS  ttl  lenph  ihe  cticnnnlancBa  ot  hia  &W.  adda,  "  Ihil  h* 
was  una  a(  Ihe  wiun  and  most  valomiu  kolghla.  Ibe  lien 
apealitr.  the  moat  e>:port  a(ntosnian.  Iha  moat  redowoed  mi 
enlerprlaiDg  man  o!  biB  aira  la  Italy,  a  comely  knlglil,  and  «t 
erareral  Tanlnge,  bnt  vBiy  woridly.  and  1b  hl>  Ome  tai 
Utnnpd  maay  conspkiaclea  La  Florepce,  and  eatBrad  kola  many 
BcaqdalDus  jiracttces  fur  the  Bake  of  nttalnlnf  atate  nnd  lorfr. 

CompnRni.  hb.  U[.    Unrntoii,  Her.  \ai.  Script., 


1 


ie^1«S.       PliHGATORY,  CiNiD  XXIV. 


353 


Ajid  blooming'  freih.  appear'^.     E'ea  bb  out  stops 
Tnm'd  thiUiec;  not  far  off,  it  rose  to  view. 
Beaeath  it  were  a  multitude,  that  raised 
Their  handii,  aud  ehouted  forth  I  know  not  what 
UniD  Ibe  boughB ;  like  greedy  aud  fond  brata, 
That  beg,  and  answer  none  obtaiu  from  bim. 
Of  wbom  they  bsg ;  but  more  to  draiv  Ibem  on. 
He,  at  arm's  length,  the  object  of  their  wish 
Above  them  holds  aloA,  and  hides  it  not. 

At  length,  as  uudeCEtved,  Choy  went  their  way : 
And  we  approach  the  tree,  whom  tows  and  teara 
Sue  to  in  yain ;  the  mighty  tree.     "  Pass  on, 
And  come  not  oear.     Stands  higher  up  the  wood, 
Whereof  Ere  tasted :  and  from  it  was  ta'ea    (came. 
This  plant."     Such  Bonade  fiom  midst  the  tdickela 
Wbencc  I,  with  either  bard,  close  to  (he  side 
That  rose,  pass'd  forth  beyond.    "  Remember,"  neit 
We  heard,  "  those  unbleal  creatures  of  the  clouds,' 
How  they  their  twyfold  bosoms,  overgorgcd. 
Opposed  in  fight  to  Theseus  :  call  to  mind 
The  Hebrews,'  how,  effisminate,  they  stoop'd 
To  ease  their  thirst ;  whence  Gideon's  ranks  were 
As  he  to  Madian'  march'd  adown  the  hille."  [tbina'd. 

Thus  near  one  border  coasting,  still  wo  heard 
The  siiui  of  gluttony,  with  wo  erewhilo 
Reguerdoti'd.    Then  along  the  lonely  path. 
Once  more  at  large,  full  thousand  paces  on 
We  [ravell'd,  eacli  contemplative  and  mule. 

"  Why  pensi™  journey  so  ye  three  alone  ?" 
Thus  suddenly  a  voice  eiclaun'd  :  whereat 
I  shook,  u  doth  a  scared  and  paltry  boast ; 
Then  raised  my  head,  to  look  from  whence  it  came. 

Was  ne'er,  in  furnace,  glaes,  or  melal,  seen 
So  bright  and  glowing  red,  as  wad  the  shape 
I  now  beheld.     "  Lf  ye  desire  to  mount," 
He  cried  ;  "  here  most  ye  tiu^.     This  way  he  goes. 
Who  goes  in  quest  of  peace."     His  countenance 
Had  iSiixled  me  ;  and  to  my  guides  I  faced 
Baokward,  like  one  who  wallu  as  souud  directs. 

As  when,  to  harbinger  the  dawu,  springs  up 


id  brcE 


354  TIIE  VISION. 

On  freahen'd  win^  Ihs  air  of  May,  t 
Of  fragnmcR,  all  iinptegn'd  with  h^i 
E'en  sncli  n.  wind  I  fell  upon  my  Irani 
Blow  geatly,  and  the  moving  of  a  wing 
Perceived,  tlmt,  moving,  abed  ambmaial 
And  then  a  voice ;  "  Blessed  are  they,  n 
Doth  BO  illnniG,  that  nppetitB  hi  Diem 
Exhaieth  no  inordinate  desire, 
Slill  liuogering  as  the  nila  of  temperonci 


CANTO    XXV. 

ARGUMENT. 


It  wbb  an  honr,  when  he  who  climbs,  had  need 
To  walk  uncrippled :  for  the  snn'  bad  now 
To  Taurus  the  meridian  circle  left. 
And  to  the  Scorpion  left  the  night    As  one, 
That  makes  no  pansa,  hot  presses  on  his  road, 
WhKto'er  betide  him,  if  some  urgent  need 
Impel ;  so  enter'd  we'  upon  our  way. 
One  before  other  ;  for,  but  singly,  none 
That  steep  and  narrow  scale  adinlls  to  climh. 

E'en  OB  the  young  etork  lifteth  up  his  wing 
Through  wish  to  fly,  yet  ventures  not  to  quit 
The  ncHt,  and  drops  it ;  so  in  me  desire 
Of  questioning  my  guide  arose,  and  fall, 
Arriving  even  to  the  act  that  marks 
A  man  prepared  far  speech.     Him  all  om-  haste 


]    The  BO 


II  bad  pasBed  the  m 

I  now  occupied  by  the  a  .    __„  ^. 

u  Uie  Scurpion  ii  appinlie,  ihe  iBilar  mb- 
eqnenll;  il  Ihe  meildlan  of  nlghl. 


PURGATORY,  Carto  XXV. 

'd  not ;  but  thus  spake  I 


"'  SHr^**^  appear'd  no  hiirder  Ihan  the  pulp 
;"  »ie^„  "^^r-fruit  matuTB.  Bui  that  thy  will 
•^   'S^?.'»ty  may  find  ils  full  repose, 

*    fe  ^^^  '■  ""  '''"'  '  "*"'  ""''  P™*' 


*    "1   thypres 


!i  of  thy  » 
jiifold  to  hin 


md." 


n'^*t:^-j~  **»  answer'd,  and  forthwith  began  r 
^'^^i-,^**  my  words,  O  son,  and  111  thy  n  ■ 


li;:^    «i«:i~~    ^tem;  so  ehall  Ihcy  bo  light  to  clear 
a/*»«31j    **t>t  Ihon  offer's!.     Blood,  concocted  woll, 
»!h^     r-^    •^S' the  thirsty  veins  is  ne'er  imbibed, 
■>"^«*»      »^*^  as  food  superfluous,  to  he  la'en 
&  replenisb'd  (able,  li 


".ii^  ti,\; 


^tffectual  virtue,  that  infon 


*:■:  ,^  ^-*teady  al  Ihi 


«r'  tx^ 


imbUng  on  my 


[  wcpl  (Efrur 


'iitfl  nmlnd]  Dnnle  Ihat,  ai  Meleager  v 
,_^   ^  -...,  -J  Ifis  ifecreo  of  Ihe  Paiea,  and  not  Ihroi 

mt      -*-».^^^,,^  tlond;  lobylho  dlvlno  Kppoliilowin,  Ihoie  niay 

^^  ^^^i."^'  """'p  "i"™"^  *Jm  the  entlhly  bofly,  Impiw 
^^S"  argbiai  at  ibal  body  wllh  its  own  aHeclVoni. 


356  THE  VISION. 

The  Beversl  humaa  limbo,  as  being  thiU 
Wbiab  passes  throiigb  the  veins  itself  to  ina^e  tl 
Yet  tnore  coacoclBiI  it  deecends,  where  ehune 
Forbids  to  mention :  und  ttom  thence  diallils 
In  nntural  venel  on  another's  blood- 
There  each  unite  together ;  one  diepoeed 
To  endure,  lo  act  tbe  other,  Ihroug'h  that  power 
DerivBd  from  whence  it  came  ;'  and  being  met, 
It  'gioB  \o  vloA,  coagulating  firet ; 
Then  vivifies  what  its  own  substance  made 
Consist     With  animation  now  iudued. 
The  activB  virtue  (differing  from  a  plant 
No  further,  than  that  this  is  on  the  way. 
And  at  its  limit  that)  continues  yet 
To  operate,  that  now  it  moves,  and  feeb, 
Aa  eea-eponge'  elioging  to  tho  rook:  and  there 
AsauiHEs  the  organic  powers  its  seed  convey'd. 
This  Is  tho  momeat,  son  I  at  which  the  virtne. 
That  &am  the  generating  heart  proceeds, 
Is  pliant  and  BXpannive ;  for  each  limb 
Ib  in  tbe  heart  by  forgeful  nature  plimn'd. 
How  babe'  of  animal  becomcB,  remains 
For  thy  considering.     At  this  point,  more  wise, 
Than  thou,  lias  err'd,'  niaking  the  aoul  disJOTi'd 
From  passive  intellccl,  because  he  saw 
No  organ  for  tho  latler'a  use  BBslgn'd. 

"  Open  Ihy  bosom  to  the  truth  that  come*. 
Know,  soon  as  in  the  embryo,  to  the  brain 
Articulation  Is  complete,  then  turns 
The  primal  Movnr  with  a  nnile  of  joy 
On  such  great  work  of  nature  ;  and  imbreathea    , 
New  spirit  replete  with  virtue,  that  what  hi 


ilehily  in 


«.J    ■ 


□  the  he&n,"  i 


a  Dlliora  liy  ]U  fatuHy  of  spoeeb, 


lib.  ili.  Mp.  S.  roc  the  oplDlDD  Uial  Iheio  li  only  one  ol. 
tnviiai^l  or  mind  pervaiilDg  every  IndlviiiuHl  of  lbs  bl 
IBM.    Mucb  of  the  hnowled^  lUapluycd  by  oar  Pc"  " 
pmuTit  OanTo,  Bppenn  (o  have  been  derived  IVom '_ 
cal  work  of  Averroei  called  Ibe  ColU||et,  lib.  IL  f  U 


TS-I13.         PURGATORY.  Can™  XXV.  357 

Acdre  it  Ends,  Id  ils  own  Bubstaiice  drjivs  ; 
And  [aima  an  indlviduiil  soul,  ttiat  liven, 
And  feels,  ond  bends  reSecIive  on  Itsolf. 
And  that  lliou  las  majst  marvel  at  the  word, 
Mark  the  Bun'a  heal ;'  how  that  to  whie  doth  change, 
Mii'd  with  Iho  moiBture  fill*r'd  through  the  rino. 

"  When  Lacheaia  hath  npun  (he  thread,'  the  goal 
Takes  with  her  both  the  human  and  divine, 
Memorf,  intelligence,  and  will,  iu  act 
Far  teener  Ihaa  hefore  j  tlie  other  powera 
Inacliyo  all  and  mute.     No  pause  nllow'd. 
In  wondrauB  sort  self-moving,  to  oiio  strand 
Of  those,  where  the  departed  roam,  she  falls : 
Here  learuB  her  destined  path.     Soon  as  the  place 
Beoeiveg  her,  round  the  plaetic  virtue  beams. 
Distinct  as  in  the  living  Umbs  before  ; 
And  89  the  air,  when  ealurate  willi  diowem, 
The  casual  beam  rofracling,  decks  itnelf 
With  many  a  hue  ;  so  here  the  ambient  air 
Wearath  thai  form,  whicli  influenpe  of  the  sool 
Imprints  OQ  it :  and  like  the  flame,  thai  where 
The  fire  moves,  thither  follows  ;  bo,  henceforth. 
The  new  fonn  on  the  spirit  follows  bIIII  : 
Heoce  hath  it  semblance,  and  is  shadow  call'd, 
With  each  sense,  even  to  the  sight,  endued  :    [sigha, 
Hence  speech  is  ouis,  hence   laughter,  tears,   and 
Which  thou  mayst  oil  have  witness'd  on  the  mount. 
The  obedient  shadow  fails  not  to  present 
Whatever  varying  passion  moves  untliin  iis. 
And  this  the  cause  of  what  thou  marvell'st  al." 

Now  the  lost  Heiure  of  our  way  we  reach'd  ; 
And  to  the  right  hand  turning,  other  care 
Awaits  DB.     Here  the  rocky  precipjee 
Hurls  forth  redundant  flames;  and  from  the  rim 
A  blast  up-blown,  with  forcible  rebuff 
Driveth  them  back,  sequester'd  from  ils  bound. 

Behooved  us,  one  by  one,  along  the  side, 
That  border'd  on  the  void,  lo  pass  ;  and  I 
Fear'd  on  one  band  the  lire,  on  the  otber  fonr'd 


nolbniil  discovery  of  Gallloo'a  In  nsnuvt  pbUowpliy ;  ) 
it  la  mUiy  lakea  ftoni  i  pautme  la  accio  "  ile  eenecli 
mhtn,  *(mkhi[  of  iho  (npe,  be  Mys,  ■■  qux,  et  inmo  ler 
nioca  KiUi  siwuceiu,  primo  Hi  peracBrba  gniiatu,  Oi 
MMsnla  dBlenell." 


Iitl)<> ) 


Tlieii  from  the  1 
"  O  God  of  tnarcy 


id  the  > 


B  cycB 


if  the  burning  mafia, 
ud  I  sung,  aud  felt 

S[iitilB  along  the  flame  proceeding,  I 
Between  (heir  footntepB  and  mine  own  wna  litin 
To  share  by  tiinuj  my  new,    Al  the  hpan'a  clon 
They  shoutrd  laud,  "  I  do  not  know  a  man  ^ 
Then  in  low  voice  itgain  took  op  the  stroiD  ; 
Which  once  more  ended,  "To  the  wood,"  tfaey  eriej, 
"  Run  Dian,  and  drsvo  forth  Callieto'  Mung 
With  Cythorea^B  poison  f^  then  retum'd 
Unto  their  gong  ;  then  many  a  pnir  eitoll'd, 
Who  lived  in  virtue  chastely  and  the  bands 
Of  wedded  love.     Nor  from  that  ISBk,  I  ween, 
SurceBBB  Ihey  ;  whileeoe'er  the  scorching  fira 
Enulnspe  them.     Of  such  skill  appliance  needs. 
To  medicine  the  wound  that  healeth  last.' 


CANTO   XXVI, 


The  aplriw  woiiiler  at  secinii  the  >ti«dow  cwt  by  the  boiT  of 

ihem  ID  Bddreu  him.    ll  proves  lo  be  Boido  GolnSrelli.  Dm 
Unllan  iioot  who  polnu  nnl  lo  him  the  >jilril  ofAmtBh 

While  singly  thus  along  the  rim  we  walk'd, 
Oft  the  good  master  wain'd  mo  :  "  Look  thou  welL 
Avail  ll  that  I  caution  thee."     Tha  sun 
Nor  al!  the  western  clime  in-adiate  changed 
From  axure  tlnct  lo  white  ;  and,  as  I  paes'd. 
My  pasaing  shadow  made  the  umber'd  flame 


nam  duDotal  vlUmnDi  Hcounni  moclale ;"  uul 
remsrkii.IbHiUiiiiEaln  thus  lul  two  venei  idmoi 

nor  Ibo  woond.  LoflLclfld  by  11,  aiid  ejpreiusd  itj  tit 


J-U.  PUKGATOSY,  Canto  XXVf.  36 

Bum  ruddier.    At  bo  stran^  a  aighl  I  mark'd 
Tfanl  many  a  spirit  marvBli'd  on  his  wey. 
This  bred  oeoaaion  firal  to  spank  of  me. 
"  He  Beonifl,"  said  they,  "  no  inaubstanlial  frame  ;" 
Then,  to  obtain  what  certainty  they  might, 
Siretoh'd  towards  me,  careful  not  to  overpBaa 
The  burning  pale.    "  O  tliou  I  who  tollowest 
The  others,  haply  not  more  eiow  than  they, 
But  moved  by  reverence ;  answer  me,  who  bum 
In  (hicst  and  lire  :  nor  1  alone,  but  these 
All  for  thuiB  answer  do  more  thint,  than  (loth 

iaa  or  .Sthiop  for  the  CDoUng  stream. 
Tell  UB,  bow  ia  it  that  thou  muk^Bt  thyself 


'    Thus  spake  one  ;  and  '. 


The  si 


erally 


Each  snalch  a  hasty  kiss,  ai 

E'en  eo  Ihe  emmeU,  'mid  their  duiiky  Uoope, 

Pe«r  closely  one  at  other,  to  spy  out 

Their  mutual  road  perchance,  ajid  how  lUey  thrive. 

That  friendly  greeting  parted,  ere  dispatch 
Of  the  first  onward  step,  from  either  tribe 
Loud  clamor  rUea  :  those,  who  newly  come. 
Shout  "  Sodom  and  Gamorrab  I"  these,  "  The  cow 
Pasiphs  enter'd,  that  the  beast  she  woo'd 
Might  rush  unlo  her  luxury."    Then  as  crenes. 
That  part  towardf  the  RlphiBan  mauatains  fly. 
Part  towards  the  Lybic  sands,  these  lo  avoid 
The  ice,  and  those  (he  sun  ;  so  basteth  off 
One  crowd,  advances  the  other  ;  and  resiimo 
Their  Hrst  song,  weeping,  and  their  several  shout.' 

Again  drew  near  my  aids  the  very  same, 
Who  had  erewhilo  besought  me  ;  and  their  looks 
Mark'd  esgemess  lo  listen.     I.  who  twice 
Their  will  bod  noted,  spake  ;  "  O  spirit» '.  secure. 
Whene'er  the  thne  may  be,  ol  peaceful  end  ; 
My  limbs,  nor  crude,  nor  in  mature  old  age. 
Hare  I  left  yonder :  here  they  bear  me,  fed 
With  blood,  and  sinew-Btrung.     That  I  □□  more 
May  live  in  bliDdneBS.  beoae  I  lend  aloft. 


360  TfJE  VISION. 

There  ia  b  danio  on 

ThiB  grace,  by  whici 

1  beur.     But  mey  you 

Such  full  fruition,  that  uie  ora  01  neaven, 

Fulletit  of  love,  and  of  moat  ample  space, 

Receive  you  ;  aa  ye  tcil  (upon  my  page 

Henceforlh  to  stand  recorded)  who  ye  Bte  ; 

And  what  Ihis  multitude,  that  Ht  your  buukt 

Have  paH'd  behiod  UB."     As  one,  tnountuin.bred, 

Rugged  and  clowniab,  if  aonie  cily'u  walle 

He  chauce  to  enter,  round  him  stares  agape, 

Confauuded  and  struck  dumb  ;  e'eu  such  appear'd 

Each  BfHrit.     But  when  rid  of  that  amaze, 

(Not  long  the  inmate  of  a  noble  heart,') 

He,  who  before  had  qoeetion'd,  thus  reaumtd : 

"  O  blessed '.  who,  for  death  proporing,  takesl 

Experience  of  our  hmita,  in  thy  hark  ; 

llietr  crime,  who  nut  with  aa  proceed,  was  that 

For  which,  aa  ho  did  triumph,  Ctesai'  heard        [ciy 

The  about  of  '  queen,'  to  taunt  him.     Hence  iheii 

Of '  Sodom,'  as  they  parted  ;  to  rebuke 

Themaelves,  and  aid  the  burning  by  their  shame 

Our  sinning  woa  Hermaphrodite  -  but  we. 

Because  the  law  of  hiunan  kind  we  broke. 

Following  like  beasts  our  vile  concujNscence, 

Hence  parting  from  them,  to  our  own  disgrace 

Record  the  name  of  her,  by  whom  the  beast 

la  bestial  lire  wae  acted.     Now  our  deeds 

Thou  know'st,  and  how  we  ainn'd.    If  tliou  by  pome 


He  d<«<  not  ny  Ibal  wundet  is  not  nalun)  10  it  Irily  n^^- 
for  11  i>  llie  very  princLple  of  lainwlodire.  iiS.a  yif  ^'^K 
e6aav  roErg  rl  rd9at,  ri  BaviiiC^if,  iii  yip  i(\Xn  a^' 
fiUin^lattiidnl.  Plato.  Tluat.EAM.  B(ponL,[™i._U' P-g^ 

conn'cierwiih  a  plinclp"  of  mtlonol  i:uriJl"ly"^s  U^Jf^J^ 

wllb  wnndcr,  la  Ihe  quallly  of  an  IdioL"  Smuum.  ™'-^£' 
337,  Compare  AilalolLe,  Hetanh.,  lib.  1.  p.  3U.  Edl'-  fUi^ 
TtiO  oBuYO  l«»sa,^c  frcnn  Piaio  1>  BddDCed  tiy  ClBDIBB"  ^"*^ 


^^-        HJBGATOHY,  CufTO  XXVI.  381 

"ToTlp  '"■ptj  know  DB,  time  p«inits  net  noir 

Whoi™"thoi,w»hMl.    GuinLcelli' 1 : 
Atrti^v!!!*  ^"^y  "rraw'd  era  ray  laBt, 
A«  [(„  ij"""^  me."     With  luch  |>iouB  joy, 
JV>  wd  r  *""  "!**"  ">""  '""'her  gawd 

are  thar  r  "'""K""'  tescucii ;  such  my  joy 
Jn  hi.        '°°">  reprcaa'd  it)  wlieii  I  heard 
Who  »7  °"^  lip«  the  name  of  him  pronounOBd, 

And  W,J-'  *llo  have  ever  used  tlie  aweet 

JofteatT"'  fliymea  of  love.     So  naught  I  hearf, 

f'tiDfo"'  out  '""g  '""«  thoiighlfully  I  went, 

JPWoach'ri  "1  •  »nd,  ouiy  for  tlie  fire, 

y  '"^inp  ''°'  np««f-    Wlien  my  eyes  were  fed 

rT  '"fcoa  ?  "^  '"m  ;  with  siicli  solemn  pledm, 

£"'•  Cs^^'lenoe,  I  dovol.U  me 

f    ""«  bT"^  wholly.    In  reply 

nf  ^'*a  »?'^''«  «">  ■  "  What  from  tlieo  I  hear 

A    f*"l6  I?  "if eply  on  mv  u.ind,  the  waves 

i..p  "v-Q    ^  '"  initli,  declure  wlial  cause  iinpela 
AsJ   '^^   ™'hich  both  thy  lookflandspcech  bewray." 
SV(  ."'**■  t  ***'l==t  '"ya."  I  ttnawcr'd ;  •■  which,  as  long 

"  itr  '*^«^**''^  ""*  ^'^"^y  '^"^^  ""'  '""''<■■ 
ilefiif^  "^t^^   lu  love  the  very  ink  tliut  traced  them." 
JJoJJ  **in*'  ""  '"'  •^'i^*''  ^"''  poiutt'l  ft  the  ahado 

Sb'  jj^  ^^^*  "  Iheto  is  one,  whose  mother  apeecli 
~7~~-...l<»-^  *-Ti  him  n  fairer  oniamenl. 
•  ^""ii^-.?  ditties,  and  tiie  tales  of  prose, 

r^htf'^^iiy-, 


>"5i^  <li.*>n?~».f    BttUofcThob..  llli.lv.  and  V.    Ht-paipilc  bi 

Ml  ,!*  ^»^'*>'"1  I'Y  '  Kipcnl.  whaa  ilie  wcnl  lo  show  H 
J^t  ^f  ^V  Iha  riY«  oinLaa^:  and,  on  horeKsplnn  I 
T*P'^  ^**«*"^Vcnrriia>  revanlmcht,  the  ioy  her  own  chlldi 

^^ie,>ar,'ai:sr*  -  - '—"  - '"'" 

-  1  jL\^''lBnlsarHlBautinilLydeMribe(lln9lallns,iuidiei 
a   -     ***i^'lde  an  imi»Bi>lon  on  Danle,  fi>r  ha  before  (C*i 


■■\. 


ly  of  DanU 


Purara,  Trinft  if.^awn,  e. 


362                         THE  VISION.                        us. 

Without  a  rival  stand*;  und  [aia  the  foola 

Ribeyrae  In  Ptninrd.  Knrl  ihal  he  wu  al  Ibe'&iwllth  «iaK,li 

p.479.)    TheacconnillKrogiTHnofhIiwiliJnpteiHmiiiiofc 

ranro  »liifticlnr>-,  snd  Ibo  criUclim  on  Ihem  mnit  gn  (bt  Hale 

B,-.r5S2*-'"-™'""  •'"■  ■■'"•""— 

Venl  d'amore  e  pnae  dl  remsnii. 

Our  Poel  fmiDtinlly  cllei  him  in  Itae  woik  De  Tnlgiri  Eh>- 

qnlo.    In  IhB  hcdqU  chapter  of  the  Kcond  bnok.  he  is  to- 
nancedu  one  "  who  had  Ireand  of  Inve ;"  «id  [n  Ihe  lenUi 

chapter,  he  1>  (aid  lo  have  used  in  almosl  all  hi.  can«.a)  a 

pmcalar  kiad  of  Hania,  Iha  MiUne,  which  DanlE  hiid  flj- 
Tiiwed  In  nnB  of  his  owd  caniani,  bceinning, 

lib.  1.  p.  7,  ei.  IMS,)  he  died  hi  118S.    Araanlt  IMiiisI  waiam 

verm,  which  are  qoolBi  by  Bulero  in  bla  CniHS  Prom- 

Eavera  algunt  a^  rairacia  par;                                     ^H 

Ssbrtw  AmoTven  nos  qnT^I  donar.                            ^H 

Pul  If  we  Anianli  Daniel  ail  in  mind. 

And  IhoM  Wslde,  whom  eorlhly  vail  dolh  bind. 

We  then  Iha  jnlghly  power  qf  lore  ihali  »ee. 

Since  IhH  nole  wa.  wrinen,  M.  Raynonard  hai  made  ut 

beiiet  acquainted  wlih  the  writlBgJi  and  hhiiDry  of  ihe  Fm- 

vancal  poela.    1  iiave  mocta  pieanre  in  Elting  lh«  rolluwlnf 
parlicutara  mpeellng  Aroanll  Daniel  fhmi  his  Cholt  dm  Fip 

■■  L'aulorilS  de  Dante  snfflrail  nonr  noni  OHmOacio  nn'  Ar 
nand  Daniel  avail  camvat  plDi^un  ronuun.    Mali  It  nale 

one  pnnve  paaidve  de  l*eii>tencB  d'on  mniaD  d-Anund 

miB.  vers  la  dn  du  uehdime  Hide,  en  aiiemand.  par  mrteb 

original.". 

"  Le  Tease,  dam  I'on  de  ks  onvragoa.'  a'ciprime  an  «• 

"E  mmansi  furono  dolU  quel  poomi.  o  piii  Kala  qnelK 

pA.""-"'""™"— ■"-""  _ 

' 

(•)  Discorso  iinpni  11  pirere  fello  del  aignot  Ft.  Patricio,  <t>i|^H 

L 

M 

I                                             ^ 

U3.  FLRGATORY,  Ckto  XXVI. 

Talk  on,  who  think  the  songstor  of  Limogea' 


ode'  CuUglluii;  le  quail  m 
&iite,  parlando  d^Arnaldo  Di 


Id  Paid,  dani  ion  Morgmui  MnegloK 


imncb  SI  he  Is  vegfllakili!.  be  teeki  uIUKy, 

ir  wa  lis,  BmBan  la  be  dona  ihrungh  Ihete  Ibree 
.    «,"  te^"  With  rmpact  lo  iilllilf,  we  .hall  And  od  & 

•aTBIy ;  wiih  ro^  lo  plBBiure,  love  is  enlUled  10  Ihe  finl 

niu.  appear  lo  bo  Ihree  ereac  Biibjecls,  which  ought  to 
tieaEed  wLtb  molt  graiuleor ;  [hat  ^,  those  things  which 
kflr  penahi  10  tbeia.  as  coungQ  In  amis,  arileiicy  of  love, 

^B :  Clno  i!a  Pistols,  oT  love ;  bis  riiend,"  (by  wham  ha 
9UU  hlnualf,)  "of  rEClilnilc;  but  1  iind  nollalliui  as  yet 


TentlDn  of  It  belii(  SBCribed  tu 


dTPravsivnii,  whadladliillTe.  He  waa  of  Lliuoies. 
eallsd  R  JUaatrt  di'  Tmvalari."  'J'hat  ho  nas  iTisIL 
■--■-     -UB(«tlfi;un)sian. 


5tlii|al«hBd 

athlH  EltiB  (a  clrcumsianco  thai,  iierhapa,  Induced  iJBDte  to 


384  THE  VISION.  114 

O'ertopa  him.    Rumor  and  the  popular  vame 
They  look  lo,  more  (ban  tralh  ;  and  bo  conGim 

Thus  many  of  the  elder  time  cried  up 

Giiitlone,'  giving  ium  the  prize,  till  truth 

By  Btrenph  of  nombem  vaaquieh'd.     If  thoo  01 

So  ample  priviloge]  bb  to  have  gajn'd 

Free  entrance  to  the  cloieler,  wberaof  Christ 

Is  Abbot  of  the  college  ;  Buy  to  ban 

One  paternoster  for  mo,  far  as  needs' 

For  dwellers  in  this  world,  where  power  lo  em 

No  longer  temple  u»."     Haply  to  make  way 

For  one  that  follow'd  neit,  when  thnt  was  said 

Ho  vaniali'd  through  the  fire,  as  through  the  wi 

A  fish,  tliat  glancea  divine  to  the  deep. 

I,  to  the  B[Hrit  he  had  shown  mo,  drew 
A  little  onward,  and  besought  his  name. 
For  which  my  heart,  I  said,  kept  graciouB  toon 
He  fraokly  thus  began :  "  Thy  eourtosy* 


CDunl  any  merit  they  may  poMess  u  poelical  tainpiHlIloa, 
renOet  Ihem  ohjpcu  well  JeiendiiE  nf  mora  curinsliy  ibw 
Ihey-  Bppear  lo  hsva  hllhena  eicLtfd  In  ibo  imblli;  n" 
MBoy  of  Wi  poenu  are  sHll  reraalnine  In  MP      ■  — — 


nnsiwdli 


t.  Liu.  des  Tnnb, 


•  Tly  cmrtnti.]  AmHoll  l>  here  Diude  lo  ipeak  In  hli  om 
iDgoo,  Ihe  Pnivon^al.  Acn*iilng  10  Itanic,  (Do  Viilg.  Elos. 
b.  I.  c.  a.)  Iha  Provenfal  nsi  am  langouflB  wlib  Ihe  SpM- 


ttS,lH.        PUBGATORY,  Canto  XXVI. 


oniurr  of  ] 
ly.    Tho  K 


Jfuu  Knd  Egmanv.  and  t 


^fuihlf™  Ainamna  or' King 


(weet  tnd  nUitlle  style  of  inel 
ClindaPliUtoaiidlil>meDd,  ..__  .... 
ID  Adbare  lo  cenala  ^nemL  miei 


Tnlf.  Elah  Ihoiif b  It 


Wa*t, 


Illicb  we  BTB  HI  murh  indebted  10  Ml.  "■  "■!*•. 

,  181*.  vol.  il,  p.  3S.    Wb  leam  ftoni  oni  ■uUioi'i 

Vnn  NnoT^  p.  3sa,  tbat  Itiem  were  no  poellc  c 


IQlf  nndftntood  by  h  liuly. 

of  ■]!  [hE  ediUcmi  lo  be  mlnentily  co 

look  mncli  piliu  lo  rsitnre  \t.    I  nil 


^tLroAt  vol  la  Hianda  folLor. 


3fie  THE  VISION.  13S-14I. 

8pn>ly  waymeuling  for  ray  folly  past, 
Tborough  this  ford  of  lire  I  wade,  and  kd 
The  day,  I  hopo  for,  Bmiling  iu  my  view. 
I  pray  ye  by  tjie  worth  that  guides  ye  up 
Unto  the  Bummit  of  the  scale,  in  time 
Reraemher  ye  ray  snSeringK."     With  such  words 
He  disappeor'd  in  the  reGning  Hame. 


CANTO     XXVII. 
ARGUMENT. 


Inln  llown  with  ViraU  Alid  BInlllu  la  rml,  boboldl  III  ■ 
dmun  two  fenuU«%  Dguring  the  active  mid  contcmplaliTS 
Ub.  With  the  relnrn  of  DuminE.  Ibeynacli  tbeh^i; 
ud  hers  Virgil  glvci  Usnlo  flill  liWny  to  amr  liiE  awB 

•hill  mul  wlUi  BEnUlca.  ' 

Now  was  the  sun'  so  Btation'd,  as  when  first 

His  early  radiance  ijuivers  on  the  heights, 

Wherestreani'dhis  Mailer's  blood;  whjla  Ubrahaug* 

Above  Hraperian  Ebro  ;  and  new  firea, 

MoridiaQ,  flash  on  Ganges'  yellow  tide. 


n  ceiUet^nin].  aam 
I  chanEcmenL  de  mob.  je  mil  pnrvmu, 

re  pnidiiU  par  DuLe." 
/^njM  Donini..  Uim.  I.  p.lUL  B"..  Par.  18311. 
inday,  wlillb  \l  wna  stidbdL  Id  PorgBlory. 


tSr.  PURGATORY,  Casto  XXVII.  367 

So  dt7  Wiui  sinking,  wtien  the  angol  of  God 
Appealed  b«f6ra  UB.     Jay  waa  Iji  hie  mion. 
Forth  of  Ihe  Satue  he  stood  upon  the  brink  ; 
And  with  a  voice,  whose  lively  cleoraeee  for 
SarpBBs'd  001  huiniiu,  "  Bleseed'  are  the  pure 
In  heart,"  he  BUif :  theu  near  him  bs  w«  cume, 
"  Go  ye  not  further,  lioly  apiritfl  '."  he  cried, 
'■  Ere  the  fire  pierce  you :  enler  in  ;  and  list 
AtUntive  to  the  song  ye  hear  from  theuee." 

I,  when  I  heaid  hm  saying,  was  aa  oae 
Laid  in  the  nave."    My  hands  together  cla^d. 
And  upward  gtretching,  on  the  lire  I  look'd ; 
And  busy  fancy  coojured  up  the  forma 
Brewhile  beheld  alive  consumed  in  flaniee. 

The  esoorting  apitile  turn'd  with  gentle  looks 
Toward  me  ;  and  the  MunCuiui  spo^e ;  "  My  son, 
Here  torment  thou  uiayst  feel,  but  canst  not  death. 
Samember  thee,  remember  tliee,  if  I 
Safb  e'en  on  Geryon  brought  tliee ;  now  I  come 
More  near  to  God,  wilt  thou  uot  trust  me  now? 
Of  this  be  sure ;  though  in  its  womb  that  flame 
A  thousand  years  contain'd  thee,  from  Ihy  head 
No  hair  sliould  perish.    If  thou  doubt  my  truth. 
Approach  ;  and  with  thy  hands  thy  vesluro'a  hem 
Stretch  forth,  and  for  thyself  ctinilnn  belief. 
Lay  now  aU  fear,  oh!  lay  all  fear  aside. 
Turn  hither,  and  coma  onward  undiamay'd." 

)ogh  conscience  urged,  no  step  advanced. 


When  still  h. 
Somewhat  disturb'd  he  cried 
Fnun  Beatrice  thou  art  by  tt 
Divided."     As  at  Tliisbe's  us 


"  Mark  m 


Lojnbardl  unden 


Of  Pynimufl  wm  open'd,  (wUeu  life  cbb'd 
FRBt  from  his  Teioi]  ood  took  one  porting  ^n&i 
'While  vermeil  dyed  the  mulberry  ;'  thus  1  tun 
To  my  sage  guide,  lelenling,  whea  1  heard 
The  uame  that  epringB  for  ever  in  my  breast. 

He  shook  hie  Ibtehead ;  and,  "  How  bmg."  he 
■■  Liuger  we  noff  I"  then  smiled,  as  one  would 
L'pan  a  child  that  eyes  the  fruit  aud  yields. 
Into  the  fire  before  me  then  he  walk'd  ; 
And  Statiu9,  who  erewhile  no  little  space 
Had  parted  us,  be  )>ray'd  to  oome  behind. 

1  would  have  cast  me  into  molten  glan 
To  cool  mo,  when  I  enter'd;  k>  intense 
REigcd  the  coallagraiit  mass.    The  sire  beloved. 
To  comfort  mi>,  as  he  proceeded,  s^ll . 
Of  Beatrice  talk'd.     "  Her  eyea,"  saith  he,. 
"  E'en  now  1  Beem  lu  view."     From  Ihe.other . 
A  voice,  that  Bang,  did  guide  us  ;  and  the  voioe 
Following,  with  heedful  ear,  ne  issued  forth,  [heard. 
There  where  the  path  led  w*™"l.     "Come,'"' wo 
"  Come,  blessed  of  my  Fatber."     Such  the  Hound^ 
That  hitll'd  us  from  within  a  Ught,  which  shone 
So  mdianl,  I  could  nnl  endure  the  view. 
"  The  Bun,"  it  added,  "  haatea;  and  erening  cornea. 
Delay  not :  ore  the  Western  sky  is  bu^ 
With  blnekness,  strive  je  for  the  poas."     Our  way 
Upright  wilhui  the  rock  aroee,  nnd  faced 
Such  part  of  heaven,  that  from  beiore  niy  alcp« 
Tlio  benms  were  ahrouded  of  tho  sinking  Cun. 

Nor  many  stairs  were  overpast,  when  Oow 
By  fading  of  the  shadow  we  perceived 


The  SI 

Of  darkness  o'er  its  i 

Involved  tho  horiion 

Held  individual,  eacl 

A  stair  his  pallet;  n 

Had  fail'd  Dfl.  hy  th< 

Forbidden  further  IraveL     as  ido  go 

That  late  have  skipp'd  and  wanton 'd 

Upon  the  craggy  cliffs,  ere  I  hey  had 


leliice 

night  her  lot 
id  made 
ill,  but  power. 


Their 


upper  < 


.0  beneath  the  umbrage  brown, 
While  noDuduy  rages  ;  and  tho  goatherd  lea. 
Upon  his  staS*,  and  leaning  watches  Ihem : 


I 


ijiiilfc-.-.^. 


;1 


■"■r-.V 


f 

m" 

4 


i 


1. 


^i 


^  /^'- 


7 


V 


'A 


<. 


4 
y  ■ 


I     ■ 


v» 


% 


'^^•% 


.« 


^ 


s> 


't- 


•.'\ 


^' 


/■■' 


t 


PURGATORY,  Ctvro  XXVII. 


I  as  B  goat,  and  as  the  ahephetds  tliey, 
Close  pant  on  oilher  aide  by  alielving  rock. 
A  little  glimpse  of  sky  waa  aofn  uboro; 

In  magniluda  and  lustre  BbinJug  forth 
With  more  than  wonted  glory.     As  I  lay. 
Gazing  oa  them,  and  in  mat  fit  of  muBing. 
Steep  overcame  me,  sleep,  Ihnl  bringelh  oft 
lldiDgH  of  fatnre  hap.     About  the  hour, 
Ab  I  beliere,  when  Venua  from  the  east 
Fint  ligbten'd  on  the  motmtam,  she  wboeo  orb 
Seeraa  alwny  glowing  with  t)ie  fire  of  love, 
A  lady  young  and  beautiful,  1  dream'd, 
Was  passing  o'er  a  lea  ;  and,  as  she  camo, 
Melhonght  I  saw  her  ever  and  anon 
Bending  to  cull  (he  flowen ;  and  thus  nhe  suig : 
"  Know  ye,  whoever  of  my  namo  would  aak. 
That  I  ani  Leah  :'  for  my  brow  lo  weave 
A  garland,  Iheee  fair  hands  uuwearied  ply. 
To  please  ma"  at  the  crystal  mirror,  here 
I  deck  ma    But  my  Butcr  Rachel,  she' 
Before  her  glttaa  alndea  the  livelong  day, 
Her  radiant  eyes  beholding,  charm'd  no  Eesb, 
Than  I  with  thie  delightful  task.     Her  joy 
In  conlemplation,  ai  m  labor  mine." 

And  now  na  glimmering  dawn  appear'd,  tha.t  breaks 
More  welcome  to  the  pilpim  still,  as  he 
Sojourns  less  distant  on  his  homeward  way, 
Daikneaa  fioin  all  sides  fled,  and  with  it  fled 
My  Blimitwr ;  whence  I  rose,  and  saw  my  guide 
Already  riBen.     "  That  delicious  fruit, 
Which  through  so  many  a  branch  the  zealous  care 
Of  mortal*  roams  in  quest  ot,  aliall  this  day 

■  /  on  /.Hjt.)  By  Lnh  In  undersUHtd  the  scUve  HO:,  as 
Ssetwl  fignm  tba  coblemplauve.  MJcbel  AdjH^la  Tuu  loade 
XheH  lUtec4UlCfl.l  penonagln  Hie  AgbjeclariAaBUKuoson  Ihe 


370  THK  VISION.  I19-I1S. 

AppciuM  tliy  hunger."     Iliuch  the  words  I  betai 

From  Virjfil's  lip;  and  never  crpetiug  heurd. 

So  plensBnt  as  Uie  Bounds.     Within  me  straight 

Desire  bo  ^ew  apon  desire  to  maonl, 

Tbencerorward  al  each  step  I  felt  the  wings 

lacreaaing  for  my  fiig^t     When  we  had  rua 

O'nr  all  the  ladder  to  ils  topmast  round. 

As  there  we  stood,  on  me  the  Manluan  fii'd 

His  eyes,  aud  thus  he  q)ake:  "  Botli  fires,  jay  eon. 

The  temporal  and  eternal,  thoa  host  seen  ; 

And  art  arrived,  where  of  itself  my  ken 

No  further  reaclies.     I,  with  skill  and  art, 

ThUH  far  have  drawn  ttiee.    Now  thy  pleaaare  take 

For  guide.    Thou  hnsl  o'ercome  the  steeper  way, 

O'ercome'  the  strailer.     Lo  I  the  sun,  that  darts 

His  beam  upon  thy  forehead :  lo ',  the  herb,' 

The  arborets  and  flowers,  wliicli  of  itself 

This  land  pours  forth  profuse.   Till  those  brig^ht  eyes' 

With  frladiiEss  eome,  nhicli,  weeping,  made  me  haste 

To  succor  thee,  Ibou  mayst  or  seat  thee  down. 

Or  wander  where  thou  will.    Expect  no  more 

Sanction  of  warning  voice  or  sign  from 

Free  of  thy  own  arWlrement  lo  ohoor  - 

DiBcreet,  judicious.    To  distrust  thy 


I 


1-84.  PURGATORY,  Camto  XXVIII.  371 

Theouoh  that  celestial  forest,  whose  thick  shade 
With  lively  greenness  the  new-springing  day 
Attempered,  eager  now  to  roam,  and  search 
Its  limits  round,  forthwith  I  left  the  bank ; 
Along  the  champain  leisurely  my  way 
Pursuing,  o'er  the  ground,  that  on  all  sides 
Dehcious  odor  breathed.     A  pleasant  air,' 
That  intermitted  never,  never  veer'd. 
Smote  on  my  temples,  gently,  as  a  wind 
Of  softest  influence :  at  which  the  sprays. 
Obedient  all,  lean'd  trembling  to  that  part^ 
Where  first  the  holy  mountain  casts  his  shade ; 
Yet  were  not  so  disordered,  but  that  still 
Upon  their  top  the  feather'd  quiristers' 
Applied  their  wonted  art,  and  with  full  joy 
Welcomed  those  hours  of  prime,  and  warbled  shrill 
Amid  the  leaves,  that  to  their  jocund  lays 
Kept  tenor ;  even  as  from  branch  to  branch. 
Along  the  piny  forests  on  the  shore 
Of  Chiassi,^  rolls  the  gathering  melody, 
When  Bolus  hath  from  his  cavern  loosed 
The  dripping  south.     Already  had  my  steps, 
Though  slow,  so  far  into  that  ancient  wood 
Transported  me,  I  could  not  ken  the  place 


>  A  pleasant  air.'] 

Cantan  fra  i  rami  gli  angelletd  vaghi, 
Azzarri,  e  bianchi,  e  verdi,  e  rossi,  e  gialli ; 
Mormoranti  ruscelli,  e  cheti  laghi 
Di  limpidezza  vincono  i  cristalll. 
Una  dole*  aura,  che  ti  par  che  vaghi 
A  un  modo  scmpre,  e  dal  suo  8til  non  falli, 
Facea  si  I'aria  tremolar  dMntorno, 
Che  non  potea  nojar  calor  del  giomo. 

Ariosto,  Orl.  Fur.,  c.  xxxiv.  st  50. 

Therewith  a  winde,  unnethe  it  might  be  less, 
Made  in  the  levis  grene  a  noise  soft, 
Accordant  to  the  foulls  song  on  loft. 

Chaucery  The  Assemble  of  Fbules. 

a  To  that  part.]    The  west. 

»  T^e  /fathered  auiristers.]  Imitated  by  Boccaccio,  Fiam- 
metta,  lib.  iv.  "  Odi  i  querali  uccelli,"  &c.— "  Hear  the  queru- 
lous birds  plaining  with  sweet  songs,  and  the  boughs  tremb- 
ling, and,  moved  by  a  gentle  wind,  as  it  were  keeping  tenor 
to  tibeir  notes." 

*  Chiassi.]  This  is  the  wood  where  the  scene  of  Boccac- 
cio's sublimest  story  (taken  entirely  fVom  Elinaud,  as  I  learn 
in  the  notes  to  the  Decameron,  Ediz.  Giunti,  1573,  p.  62)  is 
laid.  See  Dec,  G.  5,  N.  8,  and  Dryden's  Theodore  and  Hono- 
ria.  Our  Poet  perhaps  wandered  in  it  during  his  abode  with 
Guide  Novello  da  Polenta. 


A 


372                           TUB  VISION.                        Si-W. 

Wbero  I  had  enler'd ;  when,  behold  !  my  iiilli 

Wm  bounded  by  a.  rill,  which,  to  the  left. 

Willi  little  rippling  watera  bent  Ibe  grass 

That  isauod  from  its  brink.     On  earth  Ho  wave 

How  clean  soo'er.  that  would  not  Been,  to  baye 

Some  iniiluro  in  itaelt,  corapaied  with  this. 

Transpicuom  clear ;  yet  darkly  on  it  roll'd, 

Darkly  beneath  perpetnal  gloom,  which  ne'er 

Admits  or  sun  or  moonlight  there  to  shine. 

Fasa'd  onward,  o'er  the  streamlet,  to  survey 

The  tender  May-bloom,  flush'd  throngh  many  a  hue, 

In  prodigal  variety :  and  there. 

As  olgecl,  rising  suddenly  to  view, 

That  from  our  bosom  every  thought  beaide 

With  the  rare  marvel  chases,  I  beheld 

A  lady'  all  alone,  who,  singing,  went, 

And  culling  flower  Iroiu  flower,  wherewith  her  way 

Was  aU  o'er  painted.    "  Lady  beautiTul ! 

Thou,  who  (if  looks,  (hat  use  to  speak  the  heart. 

Are  worthy  of  our  trust)  with  love's  own  beam 

Dost  warm  thee,"  thus  to  her  my  speech  1  frsmed  ) 

Thy  etepa  bo  neat,  that  1  may  list  thy  aaap. 
Bebotding  thee  and  Ibis  fair  place,  methiuks, 

I  call  to  mind  where  wander'd  and  how  look'd 

ProserpLie,  in  thai  season,  when  her  child 

The  mother  lost,  and  she  the  bloomy  spring."              >H 

As  when  a  lady,  turning  iu  the  dunce,                     ^^1 

Doth  foot  it  featly,  and  advances  scaree                    ^^1 

Oue  step  before  the  other  to  the  ground  ;                  ^^M 

Over  the  yellow  and  vermilion  flowers                       ^^1 

Veiling  her  sober  eyes ;  and  cam?  so  near,                ^H 
That  I  dialincti;  caught  the  dulcet  soond.                ^H 

Arrlvmg  where  the  limpid  watecs  now                      ^H 

thl)  leily,  who  In  <he  lut  Coalo  it  oUied  UnUlda,  l>  U^M^H 

with  [he  enlBlei  cBllnl  Ihe  PalrlmDiiy  aC  SL  Pete^  "^W^H 

fcobuble  lli.l  she  should  ha  laicm^il  Ibr  an  >ll^^!^  pv 

S^'^ii™Ife'"lluT^^HLrdl''/^u'y'^?i'«  '^S'lSS 

Ihni  BffecUon  whieh  wo  oajhl  lo  bear  lowaids  tbn  toAf 

church,  and  for  which  Die  Isd;  above  memlaaedwusalr    H 

J 

1 

I^^H^rilH 

PURGATORV.  CsSTo  XXVIII. 


373 


Laved  the  greeu  awenti  hor  eyra  she  deign'd  lo  raise, 
That  ahol  iiucb  eplendor  on  me,  as  I  veen 
Ne'er  gianced  from  Cytherea'H,  when  her  Bon 
Had  sped  lib  UeeoeBt  weapons  to  her  heart. 
Upon  the  oppoaite  bank  ahe  elood  and  smiled  ; 
A»  Ihrougii  her  graeeCul  fingers  riiiHed  alill 
The  inlerrain^ing  dyes,  which  without  aeed 
That  lofty  land  uiiboaoms.     By  the  alraam 
Three  paces  only  were  we  sunder'd :  yet, 
The  Hellespont,  where  Xeixea  piies'd  it  o'er, 
(A  curb  for  ever  to  the  pride  of  man,') 
Waa  by  Leander  not  mare  hatefal  held 
For  Soattiig,  with  inhospitable  wave, 
'Twiit  Sestus  ajid  Abydos,  than  by  me 
That  fiood,  becaiiRe  it  gave  no  poieage  thence. 
"  StiBDgECS  ye  come  ;  and  haply  !□  this  place. 


Hy  smilea  :  but  tha 

t  aweet  strain  of 

laalmody. 

'  Thou,  Lord !  has! 

mode  me  glad,"  » 

ill  give  ye  light. 

Which  may  undo 

d  your  minds. 

And  thou,  who 

stand'st 

The  foremost,  and 

didst  make  thy  au 

ttome, 

Say  if  aught  ebe  t 

fori 

Came  prompt  to  anewer  every  doubt 

of  thine." 

She  apake ;  and 

I  replied  ;  "  I  kn 

w  not  how' 

To  reconcile  (his  w 

ave.  and  ruatlins 

Of  forcBt  leaves,  with  What  I  late  ha 

OB  heard 

Of  oppofflte  report' 

Ihna: 

"  I  wUi  unfold  the 

Which  makea  thee 

wduder;  and  so 

urge  the  cloud 

That  hath  enwrapp'd  th«i.     The  First  Good,  whose 
la  only  in  hhnseif,  created  man,  [joy 

For  happineae  ;  and  gave  this  goodly  place. 
His  pledge  and  earnest  of  eternal  peace. 
Favor'd  thus  highly,  through  hia  own  defect 
He  fell ;  end  hero  made  short  sojourn  ;  he  fell, 
And,  for  the  billomesB  of  sorrow,  changed 
Laughter  unblamcd  and  ever-new  delight. 
That  vapors  none,  eibaled  from  earth  beneath, 
Oi  from  the  waters,  (which,  wherever  heat 


374  THE  VISION.  101- 

Attracto  tlicm,  follow,)  might  aBcend  thus  for 

Td  vex  man's  pooceful  state,  thb  mauntain  laae 

So  high  loward  the  heaTen,  nor  feitrs  the  rage 

Of  elniaeDts  oonteniliDg ;'  Stma  that  part 

Exempted,  where  the  gate  his  limit  bars. 

Because  the  eireumambiont  a/r,  throughout, 

With  its  fiist  impulse  circles  still,  unless 

Aughl  iateipom  to  check  or  thwart  its  course; 

Upon  the  summit,  which  on  ereiy  »de 

To  vi«ilation  of  the  impassive  air 

Is  oprn,  doth  that  motion  strike,  and  mokce 

Banpalh  its  sway  the  umbrageous  wood  nmand 

And  in  the  shaken  plant  such  power  reeideB, 

That  it  impregnates  with  its  efficacy 

The  voyagine  breeze,  upon  whose  subtle  plume 

Thai,  wafted,  fliea  abroad  ;  end  the  other  land,' 

Receiving,  (as  'lis  worthy  in  itself. 

Or  in  the  clime,  that  warms  it,)  doth  conctave  ; 

And  from  its  womb  produces  many  a  treo 

Of  various  virtue.     This  when  thou  hast  heard. 

The  marvel  censes,  if  m  yonder  earth 

Some  plant,  without  apparent  seed,  be  fcHmd 

To  fix  its  fibrous  stem.     And  further  learn, 

That  with  prolifie  foison  of  all  Bseds 

Thie  holy  plain  Is  fill'd,  and  in  itself 

Bears  fruit  tliat  ne'ei  was  pluck'd  on  other  soil. 

"  The  water,  thou  behold'st,  springs  not  from  to% 
Restored  by  vapor,  tliat  the  cold  converta ; 
As  Btrearn  that  intermittently  repain 
And  speeds  his  pulse  of  life  ;  but  issaes  forth 
From  fountain,  solid,  uudecaying,  sore : 
And,  by  the  will  omniGc,  full  supply 
Feeds  whatsoeVr  on  either  side  it  poure  ; 
On  this,  devolved  w-ith  power  to  take  away 
Kemembrance  of  afEence  ',  on  that,  to  bring 
Remembrance  back  of  every  good  deed  done. 
From  whence  its  name  of  Lethe  on  this  part ; 


1 


I 

I 


JB-153.        PURGATORY,  Canto  XXIX.  375 

Ou  the  other,  Eanoe :  both  of  which  miiit  fint 

Be  tasted,  ere  it  work ;  the  laat  exceeding 

All  fl&von  else.    Albeit  thy  thint  may  now 

Be  well  contented,  if  I  here  break  off, 

No  more  revealing ;  yet  a  corollary  i 

I  freely  give  beside :  nor  deem  my  words  j 

Less  grateful  to  thee,  if  they  somewhat  pass  | 

The  stretch  of  promise.     They,  whose  verse  of  yore 

The  golden  age  recorded,  and  its  bliss. 

On  the  Parnassian  mountain,'  of  this  place 

Perhaps  had  dream'd.    Here  was  man  guiltless ;  here 

Perpetual  spring,'  and  every  fruit ;  and  this 

The  far-famed  nectar."     Turning  to  the  bards, 

When  she  had  ceased,  I  noted  in  their  looks 

A  smile  at  her  conclusion ;  then  my  face  | 

Again  directed  to  the  lovely  dame.  I 

CANTO   XXIX. 

ARGUMENT. 

The  lady,  who  in  a  following  Canto  is  called  Matilda,  moves 
along  the  side  of  the  stream  in  a  contrary  direction  to  the 
conrent,  and  Dante  keeps  eqaal  pace  with  her  on  the  oppo- 
site bank.  A  marvellous  sight,  preceded  by  mosic,  appean 
in  view. 

Singing,'  as  if  enamor'd,  she  resumed 
And  closed  the  song,  with  "  Blessed  they^  whose  sins 
Are  cover'd."     Like  the  wood-nymphs  then,  that 
Singly  across  the  sylvan  shadows  ;  one  [tripp'd 

Eager  to  view,  and  one  to  'scape  the  sun  ; 
So  moved  she  on,  against  the  current,  up 
The  verdant  rivage.     I,  her  mincing  step 
Observing,  with  as  tardy  step  pursued. 

Between  us  not  an  hundred  paces  trod, 
The  bank,  on  each  side  bending  equally, 
Gave  me  to  face  the  orient     Nor  our  way 
Far  onward  brought  us,  when  to  me  at  once 

^  Ontke  Panuusian  mountain.] 

In  bicipiti  somniasse  Pamasso.  ParthUy  Prol. 

s   Perpetual  spring^.] 

Ver  erat  ctemnm,  placidique  tepentibus  aoris 
Molcebant  zephyri  natos  sine  semine  flores. 

Flomina  Jam  lactis,  jam  flnmina  nectaris  ibant 

Ovidf  Metam^  lib.  1.  v.  111. 
*  Singintr.}    Cantava  come  fosse  innamorata. 

Ouido  Ckivaleanti,  Poeti  del  prime  eecelo,  v.  2,  p.  S88. 
«  Bleseed  tkey.]    Psahn  xxxii.  1. 


Bho  titm'd,   and  cried;   "My  bcalher !    look,  and 

Thiough  the  great  forest  eii  all  parts,  eo  briglil, 
I  doubled  whether  lightning  were  ubroad  ; 
But  (hat,  expu-ing  e»er  in  IJiB  splBBO 
That  dulh  unfold  il,  and  this  during  still, 

What  il  might  be  !  and  a  siJeet  melody 

Ran  through  (he  lummons  air.     Then  did  I  dude, 

With  warriiiituble  ibbI,  the  hardihood 

Of  our  first  parent ;  for  that  there,  where  earth 

Stood  Id  obedieuce  to  lUe  heavens,  she  only, 

Womau,  the  creature  of  an  hour,  endured  not 

Restraint  of  any  veil,  whicli  had  she  borne 

Devoutly,  JDj'H,  uiefikble  at  these, 

Had  &om  the  first,  and  long  titne  since,  been  mii 

While,  through  that  wilderness  uf  primy  swoeb 
That  never  fade,  suspense  I  walk'd,  and  yet 
Expectant  of  beatitude  more  high  ; 
Before  us,  like  a  blading  firo,  the  air 
Under  the  green  bouglis  glow'd  ;  and,  for  a  Boag, 
Distinct  the  sound  of  melody  was  hoard. 

O  ye  thrice  holy  virgins !  for  your  gakea 
If  e'er  I  snffer'd  hunger,  cold,  and  wBlahlug, 
OccaaioD  calls  od  me  to  crave  your  bounty. 
Now  Uirongh  my  breast  let  HeUeon  his  gtieun 
Pour  copious,  and  Urania'  with  her  ehmr 
Arise  to  aid  me  ;  while  the  verse  unfolds 
Things,  that  do  almoet  inock  the  grasp  of  thought. 

Onward  a  space,  what "    "  ' ' " 


i 


Falsely  presented  ;  but,  when 

Of  those,  with  whioh  a  doubtful  objcc 
Remotely,  plays  on  the  misdeeming  si 
Then  did  the  faculty,  that  mhiislerB 
DiBOOUise  to  reason,  theso  for  tapers  ol 


»-TS.  PUHGATORY,  Cum.  XXIX.  37: 

DintiagiUBh ;  and  i'  tlie  isiDgiog  trace  the  sound 
"  HoBanna,"  Above,  thair  beauteous  garniture 
Flonipd  with  more  ample  liiatre,  Ulan  [he  moon 
Through  cloudlne  sky  at  midniglit,  in  her  noon. 
1  (um'd  mo,  full  of  wonder,  to  my  guide  ; 

Chori^d  with  na  lefB  amazement ;  whence  my  vien 
Beverted  lo  Ihoae  latly  things,  which  came 
.So  slowly  moving-towardB  ub,  that  the  bride' 
Would  have  outslripp'd  them  ao  her  bridal  day. 

The  tady  call'd  aloud ;  "  Why  thus  yet  hums 
Atfectinu  in  thoe  for  these  living;  lights, 
And  dost  not  look  on  that  whicTi  foiiowe  them  1" 

I  stmighCway  mark'd  a  tribe  behind  them  walk, 
Ab  if  attendant  on  their  leaders,  clothed 
With  laiment  of  eneh  whiteness,  as  on  earth 
Was  never.     Ou  my  left,  the  watery  gleam 
Borrow'd,  and  gave  me  hack,  when  there  I  look'd, 
Ab  in  B  mirror,  my  left  side  portray'd. 

When  1  had  chosen  on  the  river'a  edge 
Such  station,  that  the  distance  uf  the  slreaia 
Alone  did  Beparals  mo ;  there  I  stay'd 
My  steps  for  clearer  prospect,  and  beheld 
The  flames  go  onward,  leaving,'  as  they  went. 
The  air  behind  them  painted  as  with  trail 
Of  liveUest  pencils  :'  so  distinct  were  mark'd 


1  nU  iridr.] 

ang'i  IVarla.vol 

t  Pw^<.l    Since  ihl>  innxl^Um  w«  n«de,  Penioul  hss 

IHBEa,  highly  applauds  the  lUKovery.  The  nonjectur 
•omElUii*  of  lu  proliabUlty,  if  we  rend  die  whole  a 
■01  u  IbaU  (Ivej  11.  but  us  It  Huila  In  I^ndlng'i  > 


Siche  U  lopra  rlninoBa  disUniD 
di  HIte  lisle  nille  In  que  cnloii 


378                        THE  VISION.                     70-M 

All  tbosB  BGven  listed  colon,'  whence  Ihe  aun 

M^elh  b]a  bow,  and  Cyntbin  her  znne. 

Tbesc  Btreamrng  goafDlonB  did  Sow  beyond 

My  viaion  ;  and  ten  paCBB,'  as  I  gueee, 

Poited  tbe  outemiDBL     Beneslli  a  sky 

So  beautiful,  camo  four  and  twenty  elders,' 

By  two  Bud  two.  with  flower-de-luces  crown'd.                    , 

All  sang  one  6oug:  '■  Bleaaed  be  Ihon' among 

The  daughUm  of  Adam  I  and  thy  loveliness                         1 

Bleseed  for  ever!"    After  that  llio  flowers,                        ■' 

And  the  fresh  herblets,  on  the  opposite  brink,                       i. 

Were  bve  from  thot  elected  race  ;  its  light 

Id  heaven  dolh  second  light,  came  aftec  them 

Foui*  animals,  each  crawn'd  with  verdurous  leaf. 

With  ail  winga  each  was  plumed ;  the  plumage  full 
Of  eyes  ;  and  Ibe  eyea  of  Argua  would  be  such, 

Were  they  end upd  with  life.    Reader!  more  rhyme*          i 

For  other  need  so  Btraitens,  that  in  thia 

I  Diay  not  give  my  boLiuty  roam.     But  read 

Biekiel  i<  for  he  paints  them,  from  the  north 

How  be  beheld  them  come  by  Chebar'a  flood, 

As  thou  shalt  fiiid  them  characler'd  by  him. 

1  XiiUd  cg/DTi.) 

Dl  selB  li.lo  mile  in  qnri  colori.  &c. 

Bboiv 

ConanicQDiLi  wilh  Itiree  lUied  colon  guy. 

jviiKn.  P.  z..  b.  iL  ess. 

'  TW  foco.]    For  an  eipUnallnn  or  Ihe  BlleEorluil  nins- 

ineoClhls  iiiyiiUTloRs  nrocsHlcin,  VenlurL  tefen  Ihoae.  "wha 

VollnteLlo,  and  dibsn ;  and  nddi,  thai  11  1>  evidenl  Iho  Poel 

Ihe  ApoMlypse.    In  Vaturl'i  Life  of  CloUo,  wb  learn  Ibal 

tuhjecu  for  his  peaeli. 

'  Unr  and  twcnli  rUtrt.]    "  Vnaa  the  leaQ  I  saw  roni  sbI^^| 
twenty  elden  tllllDg."  -Rce,  W.  t.                                          ^^M 

in.        PUKGATORY,  Ca-vto  XXIX.  3' 

Hare  were  they ;  save  ob  to  the  pennons :  there, 
From  him  departing,  Jolin'  accurds  with  me. 

The  space,  surrauuded  by  the  four,  enclosed 
A  car  triumptial  ■'  on  two  wheels  it  came, 
Drawn  itt  a  GryphonV  ueck  ;  and  hs  above 
Stretch'd  either  wing  uplifled,  'tween  the  midst 
And  the  three  listed  hnes,  on  each  side,  three  ; 
So  that  the  wings  did  cleave  or  injnre  none  ; 
And  oat  of  sight  tbey  rose.     The  members,  far 
As  he  was  iardj  were  golden  ;  wbilo  the  rest. 
With  vorroeil  intarreinU     So  beautiful' 
A  car,  in  Rome,  ne'er  graced  AugUBtOB'  pomp, 
Or  AflHcaauB' ;  e'en  the  Bun's  itself 
Were  poor  to  this ;  that  chariot  of  the  bud, 
EtToneouB,  which  in  blazing  niin  fell 
At  Tellns'  prayer'  devout,  by  the  just  doom 
Mysterious  of  all-seeing  Jove.     Three  nymphs,' 
At  the  right  wheel, eame  cncling  in  smooth  dance 

■  Mai.i    "  And  Hie  fimc  beruU  'hut  each  or  Itacm  nil  wl 

anmerlpertectloiieni  poslUim  jirbLtror;  qalHlnaeiEa  plate 
e>t  advenieole  pleniliulLDB  Lempomin.  htc  ApoiftolnH  pen 

Prmani,  A%fVilxiti  iuemii,  ^iaeopi  OwMHfliE.,  lib.  qmi 
iw^fiicai^   Ed.  DbsIL.  1M4.    '-Wilb  thu  InlerprelaQon  I 

(bur  wlngi,  beMnso  bii  praphecy  iloes  nnl  etieod  beirond 

•She  CBlUnc'dC  the  Gentiles :  wtieresi  D&nte  bcbuldlai  III 

*  A  Lar  trimmplat.]  Either  the  CbdatUn  chorch,  or  ; 
btpi  the  Pipil  cbaii. 

'  Or*Ji*iP».]  VoitT  Iha  gryphon,  an  loiajinary  owti 
Ibe  Ibre-put  of  which  \s  aoeQ^le.  and  The  hladcrH  Hod 
ihadowed  forlh  the  tLaloa  of  Ihe  divine  and  human  oalUP 


Them 


THE  VISION,  11 

ruddy,  that  her  form  hud  ecuce 
a  within  a  fumaco  of  clear  flame  ; 
d  look,  aa  if  the  flesh  and  boiiH 


Were  emerald ;  snow  now-fallen  seeni'd  the  third. 
Now  Beero'd  the  while  lo  lead,  the  ruddy  now  5 
And  from  lier  song  who  led,  the  othera  took 
Their  measure,  swift  or  slow.    At  the  other  whed, 
A  band  quutemion,'  each  in  purple  cJod, 
Advanced  with  festal  alep,  as.  of  them,  one 
Tbs  rest  conducted  ;*  one,  upon  who«e  front 
Three  eyea  were  Been.     In  rear  of  all  this  group, 
Two  old  men'  I  beheld,  diesiniilaT 


To  serve  llie  coWlieat  creatnn 
His  fellow  mark'd  an  opposite 
Bearing  a  swurd,  whoae  glitti 


With  iL  shrewd  visage.    And  these  w 


icfTsU  Cma.]    Hi|lIlo^rate^  ■■  wJiom  nature  moile  for 


lake  Ihem  li>  be  funr  urlaelpit  dDcloM  of  the  rkQrcb."  \ 
balta  LiinrDDO  and  VellnleUa  rtipIBUly  dull  Ihem  the  BUllu 
of  the  ei^tles,  J&mea,  Piier,  John,  mad  Jade. 

churscler  ul  lie  sulbjir  of  Iho  ApocalyiiM.    Bui.  In  Ilie  pea 


See  No.  3tse  of  the  Hul.  M8S.  [e 


141-150.       PURGATORY,  Canto  XXX.  381 

like  the  fint  troop  were  habited ;  but  wore 
No  braid  of  lilies  on  their  temples  wreathed. 
Rather,  with  roses  and  each  vermeil  flower, 
A  n^t,  but  little  distant,  mi^ht  have  sworn. 
That  they  were  all  on  fire'  above  their  brow. 

When  as  the  car  was  o'er  ugaiust  me,  straight 
Was  heard  a  thundering,  at  whoso  voice  it  seem'd 
The  chosen  multitude  were  stay'd ;  for  tliere, 
With  the  first  ensigns,  made  they  solenm  halt 


CANTO    XXX. 


ARGUMENT. 
Beatrice  descends  firom  heaven,  and  rebukes  the  Poet 

Soon  as  that  polar  li^ht,"  fair  ornament 
Of  the  first  heaven,  which  hath  never  known 
Setting  nor  rising,  nor  the  shadowy  veil 
Of  other  cloud  than  sin,  to  duty  there 
Each  one  convoying,  as  that  lower  doth 
The  steersman  to  his  port,  stood  firmly  fix'd  ; 
Forthwith  the  saintly  tribe,  who  in  the  van 
Between  the  Gryphon  and  its  radiance  came. 
Did  turn  them  to  the  cur,  as  to  their  rest : 
And  one,  as  if  cominission'd  from  above. 
In  holy  chant  thrice  shouted  forth  aloud  ; 
**  Come,'  spouse !  from  Libanus :"  and  all  the  rest 
Took  up  the  song. — At  the  last  audit,  so 
The  blest  shall  rise,  from  forth  his  cavern  each 
Uplifting  lightly  his  new-vested  flesh  ; 
As,  on  the  sacred  litter,  at  the  voice 
Authoritative  of  that  elder,  sprang 
A  hundred  ministers  and  messengers 
Of  life  eternal.     "  Blessed^  thou,  who  comest !" 

>  All  on  fire.]    So  Giles  Fletcher— 

The  wood's  late  wintry  head 
With  flaming  primroses  set  all  on  Are. 

Christ's  Triumph  after  Death. 

>  Thai  polar  light.]  The  seven  candlesticks  of  gold,  which 
he  calls  the  polar  light  of  heaven  itself,  because  they  per- 
form the  same  office  for  Christians  that  the  polar  star  does 
for  mariners,  in  guiding  them  to  their  {lort. 

s  Come.]  "  Ck)me  with  me  from  Lebanon,  my  spouse,  with 
me,  from  Lebanon."    Song^  of  Solomon,  iv.  8. 

*  Blessed.]  "  Blessed  is  he  that  cometh  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord.*'    MaU.  zxi.  9. 


i 


THE  VISION. 


so-li. 


And,  "Oh!"  they  cried,  "from  fall  haniW  BcaUei  ye 
llnwithering  lilieBi"  and,  eo  sajing,  cast 
Flowers  over  hend  and  round  Ihem  on  nil  sidea. 

I  have  hehtld,  ere  now,  al  break  of  day, 
Tho  cDBlem  olime  all  roseate  ;  and  the  sky 
Opposed,  one  deep  and  bsantifu!  serene  ; 
And  the  ann's  face  so  shaded,  and  with  mistB 
AttempcF'd,  at  lib  naing,  that  tlie  eye 
Long  while  endured  the  eight :  thus,  in  a  clond 
Of  floweiB,'  that  Snim  those  hands  angelic  mt«. 
And  dowD  within  and  outnde  of  tbs  car 
Fell  eliowaring,  in  while  veil  with  olive  wreathed, 
A  virgin  in  my  view  appflar^d,  beneath 
Green  mantle,  robed  in  hue  of  Using  flame : 
And'  o'er  niy  spirit,  that  so  long  a  time 
Had  from  her  presence  felt  no  Juddering  dread. 
Albeit  mine  eyea  discern 'd  her  not,  theio  moved 
A  lilddeii  virtue  from  her,  at  whoBS  touch 
Tlic  power  of  undent  lave'  was  Etrong  within  me. 


1  FVDni/>JI;lomfcO    Msniliusdi 


.^ ^ ime  BiplatihttoD,    Hlj  Bpiril,  w_ 

been  so  loos  aaawcd  bylbe  imsenceaT Beatrice.  (fatOmbiii 
been  ten  yean  dead,)  now  tblt,  Lhrou^  a  4ectEt  inflnenc* 
proceedlDf  from  her.  Its  aoclent  love  ravtved,  IhoDnh  Ua 
slehl  had  nal  yel  dlgtlOEiUibed  her. 
*  Tktymter  of  untiwit  ZnuiJ 


a0J76w  PURGATORY,  Cimto  XXX.  383 

No  sooner  on  my  y'uAaa.  atreaming,  smote 
The  heavenly  influence,  whicli,  yean  past,  and  e'en 
In  childhood,  thrill'd  me,  than  towards  Virj^il  I 
Tum'd  me  to  leftward ;  pantinpr,  like  a  babe, 
That  flees  for  refuge  to  his  mother's  breast. 
If  aught  have  terrmed  or  work'd  him  wo : 
And  would  have  cried,  "  There  is  no  dram  of  blood. 
That  doth  not  quiver  in  me.     The  old  flame^ 
Throws  out  clear  tokens  of  reviving  Are." 
But  Virgil  had  bereaved  us  of  himself; 
Virgil,  my  best-loved  father ;  Virgil,  he 
To  whom  I  gave  mo  up  for  safety :  nor" 
All,  our  prime  mother  lost,  avail'd  to  save  | 

My  undew'd  cheeks  from  blur  of  soiling  tears.  | 

"  Dante !  weep  not,  that  Virgil  leaves  thee  ;  nay,  ' 

Vl/^eep  thou  not  yet :  behooves  thee  feel  the  edffe 
Of  other  sword ;  and  thou  shalt  weep  for  that 

As  to  the  prow  or  i^em,  some  admiral 
Faces  the  deck,  inspiriting  his  crew, 
When  'mid  the  sail-yards  all  hands  ply  aloof ; 
Thus,  on  the  left  side  of  the  car,  I  saw 
(Turning  me  at  the  sound  of  mine  own  name. 
Which  here  I  am  compell'd  to  register) 
The  virgin  statiou'd,  who  before  appeared 
Veil'd  in  that  festive  shower  angelical. 

Towards  me,  across  the  stream,  she  bent  her  eyes ; 
Though  from  her  brow  the  veil  descending,  bound 
With  foliage  of  Minerva,  sufler'd  not 
That  I  beheld  her  clearly :  then  with  act 
Full  royal,  still  insulting  o'er  her  thrall, 
Added,  as  one  who,  speaking,  kcepeth  back 
The  bitterest  saying,  to  conclude  the  speech : 
"  Observe  me  well.     I  am,  in  sooth,  I  am 
Beatrice.     What !  and  hast  thou  deign'd  at  last 
Approach  the  mountain  ?     Knewest  not,  O  man ! 
Thy  happiness  is  here  1"     Down  fell  mine  eyes 
On  the  clear  fount ;  but  there,  myself  espying, 
RecoU'd,  and  sought  the  greenswerd ;  such  a  weight 

Sveglia  d'antico  amor  la  gran  possanEa. 

Mr.  Mathias's  Ode  to  Jir.  JVichols,  Oray't  WorkB^ 
4to.  1814,  vol.  i.  p.  S3SI, 
>  TkeoldfiaiM.] 

Agnosco  veteris  vestigia  flammce. 

Virg.  Mn.,  lib.  iv.  23. 
Conosco  i  segni  dell'  antlco  ftiooo. 

GiiMto  de^  Conti,  La  Bella  Mano. 

•  JVbr.]    '<Not  all  the  beauties  of  the  terrestrial  Paradise, 
in  which  I  was,  were  sofficient  to  aJlay  my  grief." 


384                            THE  VISION.                      SIM. 

Of  nhumo  wne  oa  my  fcrehead.    Wil  h  a  nuen 

Of  thnl  Blcm  majerty,  which  doth  BUrround 

A  molhor'B  preBSQCe  lo  her  awo-slruek  child, 

Bhe  look'd ;  a  flavor  of  mich  billBniEBB 

Was  mingled  in  hsr  pity.     The™  her  words 

Brake  off;  and  auddanly  Cbr,  angob  aang, 

"  In  thpo,  0  graciouB  Lord  !  my  hopo  buth  been:"              ' 

But'  wont  no  farther  than,  "  Thou,  Lord !  llHBt  set 

My  feet  in  ample  raom."     Ab  buow.  tljat  liee, 

Amid»l  the  living  rafters"  on  the  back 

or  Italy,  ooageai'd,  when  drifted  liigii 

And  closely  piled  by  rough  Sclavoiiiaii  blaate  ; 

Breathe  but  the  land  whereon  no  shadow  fails," 

And  Btraighlway  melting  it  dietils  away, 

Ijks  a  firo-wasted  taper:  thus  was  I, 

WHhout  a  sigh  or  [oar,  or  ever  the» 

Did  sing,  that,  with  the  chiming  of  hcBTBIi's  tphert. 

Still  in  their  warbhng  ohime :  but  when  the  strain 

Of  dulcet  symphony  express'd  for  me 

Congeal'd  about  my  bosom,  tum'd  itself 

To  spirit  and  water;  and  with  anguish  forth                  ■ 

GuBh'd,  through  the  lips  and  eyelids,  from  the  hwffifl 

Upon  the  chariot's  same  edge*  still  she  staod,        |^l 

Immoveublu  ;  and  thus  oddresa'd  her  words              ^^M 

To  those  bright  semblances  with  pity  louoh'd:       -^^1 

■'  Ye  iu  the  eternal  day  your  vigils  keep ;                ^^M 

So  that  tior  night  nor  slumber,  with  cloM  ab«t\Oti^^M 

Conveys  from  you  a  single  step,  in  all                     ^^^1 

1  Aid.J    Tbey  mag  the  IhlKfAiil  PmIoi,  h>  the  end  of'^^H 
elghih  lane.    Wbal  IbllDW.  (a  tba<  P«d^  would  Dot  a^^H 

^TkeiMnernfi^'.i    "  VlvB  IravL."    The  Indea  hbJ^^I 

ontheApenaloe.                                                            ^^H 

I 

1 

TraHlbaaquB  olHcnnu  Monil..            niiL.  Ub.li.BI. 

•  m  Uni  »*.!r™  n,  .*«(™/iJi..l    "When  the  wM 

blow*  ftom  off  Atrlta,  where,  ai  Ihe  Ume  of  (he  mmBDi, 

boHles,  being  ander  the  equalor,  oat  liiilo  or  do  shallow ;  or. 

bk  other  word.,  when  the  wbiil  li  »oiub." 

•  Tit  iei]     Mlllon  bu  traB.ttarrtd  lh)>  conceit,  lbai«h 

•  «»»  ^..]    The  NitobeaUni.  cdllloB,  and  naaj  MOt. 

hare  read  ■•tUoataicW  injiead  of  "de>Im,"  or  -iWua  ob- 

cLa:"  aad  it  [1  Dfblioblc  from  wbai  hu  gone  before,  thai  M^B 

I 

rormer  1>  tbe  right  leadUtg.    See  v.  M.                                ^4^1 

10F-14C  PURGATORY,  Canto  XXX.  38» 

The  going!  on  of  time ;  thence,  with  more  heed 

I  shape  mine  answer,  for  his  ear  intended. 

Who  there  stands  weeping ;  that  the  sorrow  now 

May  equal  the  transgression.     Not  alone 

Through  operaticm  of  the  mighty  orbs. 

That  mark  each  seed  to  some  predestined  aim. 

As  with  aspect  or  fortunate  or  ill 

The  constellations  meet ;  but  through  benign 

Largess  of  heavenly  graces,  which  rain  down 

From  such  a  height  as  mocks  our  vision,  this  man 

Was,  in  the  fVeshness  of  his  bcing,^  such. 

So  ^fted  virtually,  that  in  him 

Ail  better  habits  wondrously  had  thrived. 

The  more  of  kindly  strength  is  in  the  soil, 

So  much  doth  evil  seed  and  lack  of  culture 

Mar  it  the  more,  and  make  it  run  to  wildness. 

These  looks  sometime  upheld  him  ;  for  I  show'd 

My  youthful  eyes,  and  led  him  by  their  light 

In  upright  walking.     Soon  as  I  had  reach'd 

The  threshold  of  my  second  age,'  and  changed 

My  mortal  for  immortal ;  then  he  left  me. 

And  gave  himself  to  others.    When  from  flesh 

To  spirit  I  had  risen,  and  increase 

Of  beauty  and  of  virtue  circled  me, 

I  was  less  dear  to  him,  and  valued  less. 

His  steps  were  tum'd  into  deceitful  ways. 

Following  false  images  of  good,  that  make 

No  promise  perfect.    Nor  avail'd  me  aught 

To  sue  for  inspirations,  with  the  which, 

I,  both  in  dreams  of  night,  and  otherwise. 

Did  call  him  back  ;  of  them,  so  little  reck'd  him. 

Such  depth  he  fell,  that  all  device  was  short 

Of  his  preserving,  save  that  he  should  view 

The  children  of  perdition.     To  this  end 

I  visited  the  purlieus  of  the  dead  : 

And  one,  who  hath  conducted  him  thus  high. 

Received  my  supplications  urged  with  weeping. 

It  were  a  breaking  of  God's  high  decree, 


1  In  the  freshness  of  his  heing.l 

Nella  sua  vita  nuova. 

Some  suppose  our  Poet  alludes  to  the  work  so  called,  written 
in  his  youth. 

s  The  threshold  of  my  second  Oj^e.']  In  the  Convito,  our  Poet 
makes  a  division  of  human  life  into  four  a^^es,  the  first  of 
which  lasts  till  the  twenty-fifUi  year.  Beatrice,  therefore, 
passed  ftom  this  life  to  a  better,  about  that  period.  Bee  the 
Life  of  Dante  prefixed. 

25 


=1 


388  THE  VISION.  14S, 

IT  Letbe  abould  be  pos'd,  and  such  food'  lasted, 
Without  the  eoBt  of  soma  cepenlant  teat." 


CANTO    XXXL 


41  her  rcpnhQDBinn 


M 


H^n.  he  la  by  Mntitdn  drawn  UitDugh  II 

LoUiB,  nnd  proienled  flnt  u  Ihe  faui  virgiiut  who  Agaia 

Oty^on,  a  aymbol  of  oni  Saviour ;  and  the  lines  viigias. 
renmiMiUiig  Uio  evangelical  Tltmej.  inlercedo  for  blir. 
wllb  Beatrice,  Ihal  >he  woold  display  la  him  hei  Beeond 

"  O  THOU !"  Iter  words  she  thus  without  delay 
Resuming,  tum'ii  their  point  on  me,  to  whom 
They,  with  but  luteial  edea,'  secm'd  haiah  betbiein 
"  Say  Uiou,  who  stand'st  beyaiid  Ihe  holy  Btreoi 
If  IhiB  be  true.    A  charge,  bo  grievous,  needa 
Thine  owd  avowal."     Un  my  faculty 
Such  Btran^e  omaiemenl  hung.  Ihe  voice  expired  I 
Imperfect,  ero  its  organs  gave  it  birth. 

A  little  apace  refrauiing,  then  she  spake ; 
"  What  dost  thou  musa  on  ?  Answer  me.    The 
On  thy  remembrances  of  evU  yet 
Hath  done  no  injury."    A  mingled  soaae 
Of  fear  and  of  eonfumon,  from  my  lips 
Did  such  a  "  Yea"  produce,  as  needed  help 
Of  vidion  lo  interpret.     As  when  brealtB, 
Id  act  to  be  discharged,  a  cross-bow  beni 
Beyund  its  pitch,  both  nerve  and  bow  o'erstretcli'i 
The  Sagging  weapon  feebly  hits  the  mark: 
ThuB,  teara  and  sighs  forth  gushing,  did  I  bunt 
Beneath  Ihe  heavy  load:  and  thus  ray  voice 
Was  elackenM  on  its  way.     She  straight  began' 
"Wlien  my  desire  invited  thee  lo  love 
The  good,  which  sets  a  bound  to  onr  aspirings 
What  bar  of  thwarting  fuss  or  linked  chain 
Did  meet  thee,  that  thou  so  shouldat  quit  the  hopa 
Of  further  progress  ^  or  what  bait  of  e 
Or  proinbe  of  allurement,  led  Ihcv  on 
Elsewhere,  that  then  elsewhere  Bhoulda 

1  Skck  food.]    The  oHllvlon  of  aim. 
'  »T(*  lai lateral  cie']    The  wonli  of  Bsanlce,  wbei 
UuDle  bad  Ihocehl  siilficleal'ly  hanh. 


.ofbl^     '11 


SO-56.  PURGATORY,  Canto  XXXI.  387 

A  bitter  sigh  I  drew,  then  scarce  found  voice 
To  answer ;  nardly  to  these  sounds  my  lipe 
Gave  utterance,  wailing :  "  Thy  fair  looks  withdrawn, 
Things  present,  with  deceitful  pleasures,  tum'd 
My  steps  aside."    She  answering  spake :  "  Hadst  thou 
Been  silent,  or  denied  what  thou  avow'st. 
Thou  hadst  not  hid  thy  sin  the  more  ;  such  eye 
Observes  it     But  whene'er  the  sinner's  cheek 
Breaks  forth  into  the  precious-streaming  tears 
Of  self-accusing,  in  our  court  the  wheel 
Of  justice  doth  run  counter  to  the  edge.^ 
Howo'er,  that  thou  mayst  profit  by  thy  shame 
For  errors  past,  and  that  henceforth  more  strength 
May  arm  thee,  when  thou  hear'st  the  Syren-voice ; 
Lay  thou  aside  the  motive  to  this  grief, 
And  lend  attentive  ear,  while  I  unfold 
How  opposite  a  way  my  buried  flesh 
Should  have  impell'd  thee.     Never  didst  thou  spy. 
In  art  or  nature,  aught  so  passing  sweet. 
As  were  the  limbs  that  in  their  beauteous  frame 
Enclosed  me,  and  are  scatter'd  now  in  dust. 
If  sweetest  thing  thus  fail'd  thee  with  my  death. 
What,  afterward,  of  mortal,  should  thy  wish 
Have  tempted  ?  When  thou  first  hadst  felt  the  dart 
Of  perishable  things,  in  my  departing 
For  better  realms,  thy  wing  thou  shouldst  have  pruned 
To  follow  me ;  and  never  stoop'd  again. 
To  'bide  a  second  blow,  for  a  slight  girl,' 

1  Counter  to  the  edge.']  "  The  weapons  of  divine  justice  are 
blunted  by  the  confession  and  sorrow  of  the  offender/' 

3  Fbr  a  slight  girl.]  **  Daniello  and  Vcnturi  say  that  this 
alludes  to  Gentucca  of  Lucca,  mentioned  in  the  twenty- 
fourth  Canto.  They  did  not,  however,  observe  that  Buonaff- 
giunta  there  gives  us  to  understand  that  Dante  knew  not  if 
Gentucca  were  then  in  the  world,  and  that  Beatrice  is  now 
reprehending  him  for  past  and  not  for  future  errors."  Thus 
Lombardi.  Pelli  (Mcmor.,  p.  57)  acquaints  us  that  CorbincUi, 
in  the  Life  of  Dante,  added  to  the  edition  of  the  De  Vulg. 
Eloq.,  says  the  name  of  this  lady  was  "  Pargoletta."  But  the 
intimation,  as  Pelli  justly  remarks,  can  scarcely  be  deemed 
authentic.  The  annotator  on  the  Monte  Cassino  MS.  gives  a 
very  different  turn  to  the  allusion.  "  duw  proca  ftiit,"  &c. 
*'  This  was  either  a  mistress ;  or  else  it  is  put  for  the  poetic 
art,  as  when  he  says  in  a  certain  song : 

lo  mi  son  pargoletta  bella  e  nuova 
E  son  venuta. 

which  rebuke  of  Beatrice's  may  be  delivered  in  the  person  of 
many  theologians  dissuading  from  poetry  and  other  worldly 
sciences ;  a  rebuke  that  should  be  directed  against  those  who 
read  the  poets  to  gratify  their  own  inclination,  and  not  for 
the  sake  of  instruction,  that  they  may  defeat  the  errors  of 


•I 

'J 
I 


THE  VISION. 


Or  other  gand  aa  lianneDt  and  ai  vain. 
The  new  and  moxperieDced  bird'  owaitB, 
Twice  it  ma;  be,  or  llirice,  the  fawlei'a  mm; 
But  in  the  algbt  nT  one  whose  plumes  aia  full 
In  Tain  tho  not  is  epreud,  the  arrow  wing'd." 

1  dtood,  IS  ohildren  ailoikt  and  aahamed 
Stand,  lintening,  with  thcb  tyee  upon  tho  earth. 
Acknowledging  their  fault,  and  splf-pondBinn'd. 
And  she  resmnod ;  "  If,  but  to  hear,  thus  poiiw  Ibee : 
Baiae  Ihau  Ihy  beard,  and  \o'.  what  Bight  shall  do." 

With  less  reliiolance  yields  a  sturdy  holm. 
Rent  from  its  fibres  b;  a  blast,  that  blows 
From  off  the  pole,  or  from  lorbtts'  land,' 
Than  I  al  her  beheet  my  visage  roieed : 
And  thus  the  face  denoting  by  tlie  beard,' 
I  mark'd  the  secret  sting  her  words  comeyd. 

No  sooner  lifted  I  mioe  aspect  up, 
Than  I  perceived'  those  primal  cieatureB  ceaa 
Their  flowery  sprinkling ;  and  mine  eyee  beheld 

iYet  unassured  and  waveiing  in  their  new) 
leatrice;  she,  who  (owards  tba  mystic  shape. 
That  joina  two  naturoa  in  one  form,  had  toni'd: 
And,  even  under  ahodow  of  her  veil, 
And  parted  by  the  verdant  rill  that  Qaw*d 
Betweeu,  iu  loveliness  she  seem'd  as  much 
Hei  furmei  self-Burpaesing,  oa  on  earth 
All  others  sbe  surpaaa'd.     Remorseful  goads 
Shot  sudden  through  me.    Each  thing  otse,  the 


cement  Lnvolvod  bim.  m 


1 


1 

4 


a  Lombard!,  w 
Biiiiicrlag  the  Ban 


8S-116.         PURGATORY,  Canto  XXXI.  389 


I 


Its  love  had  late  begruiled  me,  now  the  more 

Was  loathsome.    On  my  heart  so  keenly  smote 

The  bitter  consciousness,  that  on  the  ground  ! 

O'eipower'd  I  fell :  and  what  my  state  was  then,  -  i 

She  knows,  who  was  the  cause.    When  now  my 

strength  i 

Flow'd  back,  returning  outward  from  the  heart, 
The  lady,^  whom  alone  I  first  had  seen, 
I  found  above  me.     **  Loose  me  not,"  she  cried : 
*'  Loose  not  thy  hold :"  and  lo  I  had  dragg*d  me  high 
As  to  my  neck  into  the  stream ;  while  she. 
Still  as  she  drew  me  after,  swept  along. 
Swift  as  a  shuttle,  bounding  o'er  the  wave. 

The  blessed  shore  approachmg,  then  was  heard  j 

So  sweetly,  "  Tu  asperges  mo,*"^  that  I  j 

May  not  remember,  much  less  tell  the  sound.  ;' 

The  beauteous  dame,  her  arms  expanding,  clasp'd 
My  temples,  and  immei^ed  me  where  'twas  fit 
The  wave  should  drench  me :  and,  thence  raising  up, 
Within  the  fourfold  dance  of  lovely  nymphs 
Presented  me  so  laved  ;  and  with  their  arm 
They  each  did  cover  me.    "  Here  are  we  nymphs. 
And  in  the  heaven  are  stars.*    Or  ever  earth 
Was  visited  of  Beatrice,  we, 
Appointed  for  her  handmaids,  tended  on  her. 
We  to  her  eyes  will  lead  thee  :  but  the  light 
Of  gladness,  that  is  in  them,  well  to  scan. 
Those  yonder  three,^  of  deeper  ken  than  ours,  | 

Thy  sight  shall  quicken."     Thus  begem  their  song :  i 

And  then  they  led  me  to  the  Gryphon's  breast,  | 

Where,  tum'd  toward  us,  Beatrice  stood.  • ! 

"  Spare  not  thy  vision.    We  have  station'd  thee  ' 

Before  the  emeralds,^  whence  love,  erewhile, 


I 


1  The  lady.]    Matilda. 

>  7^  asperges  me.]  ''Pnrgo  me  with  hyssop,  and  I  shall 
be  clean ;  wash  me,  and  I  shall  be  whiter  than  snow."  Ps. 
li.  7.  Sang  by  the  choir,  while  the  priest  is  sprinkling  the 
people  with  holy  water. 

*  ^nd  in  the  heaven  are  stars.]    See  Canto  i.  24. 

*  Tliose  yonder  three.]    Faith,  hope,  and  charity.  ■  j 
»  The  emeralds.]    The  eyes  of  Beatrice.    The  author  of                     ; 

Illustrations  of  Shakspeare,  8vo.,  1807,  vol.  ii.  p.  193,  has  , 

referred  to  old  writers,  by  whom  the  epithet  green  is  given 
to  eyes,  as  by  the  early  French  poets,  and  by  Shakspeare,  i 

Romeo  and  Juliet,  act  iii.  sc.  5. 

an  eagle,  madam, 

Hath  not  so  green,  so  quick,  so  fair  an  eye.  :  | 

Mr.  Donee's  conjecture,  that  eyes  of  this  color  are  much 
less  common  now  than  formerly,  is  not  so  probable  as  that 
writers,  and  especially  poets,  should  at  times  be  somewhr.t 


w 


I 

390                        THE  VISION.                   in-HB, 

1 

Hath  drawn  bia  wcKpong  on  thee."     As  they  qutke, 

1 

A  thousBnd  fervent  wishes  riveted 

1 

Mine  eyes  upon  her  boaming  cyos,  that  stood, 

r 

As  the  Run  strikes  a  mirror,  evou  thus 

Withiu  IhosB  orbs  the  twyfold  being  shonii ; 

For  ever  varying,  in  uno  figuro  now 
Befleoted,  now  in  other.     Reader  1  mose 

Haw  wondrous  in  my  sight  it  seeni'd,  to  roork 

A  thine,  albeit  steadfnst  in  itself, 

Yet  in  Its  imaged  semblance  mutable. 

Full  of  amaze,  and  joyous,  while  my  soul 

Fed  on  the  viand,  whereof  alill  desire 

GrowB  with  satiety  ;  the  other  three. 

With  gesture  that  declared  a  loftier  line. 

Advanced :  to  their  own  carol,  ou  they  came 

Dancing,  in  festive  ring  angelical 

"  Turn,  Beatrice  1"  was  their  song :  "  Oh !  tain 
Thy  saintly  »ght  on  this  Iby  faithful  one. 

Hath  measured.    Gracious  at  our  prayer,  iDnchwIe 

Unveil  to  lum  thy  clieeke ;  that  he  may  mark 

Thy  second  beauty,  now  couceal'd."     O  spleudocl.'^H 

0  sacred  light  eternal  1  who  is  he,                            rf^H 

So  palo  with  musmg  in  Fiarian  shades,                       ]^l 

Or  with  that  fount  so  lavishly  imbued,                       ^^| 

Whose  spirit  should  not  fail  him  in  the  enav          -^^H 

To  represent  thee  such  as  thou  didst  eeem,            ,^H 

When  under  cope  of  the  still-cbiming  heaven       ^H 

Thou  gavBst  to  open  air  thy  chama  revettl'dl      ^^H 

CANTO   XXXII.                       ^H 

Dsnle  is  warned  nol  lo  pue  loo  fliedly  on  Bealrt™.   Tfcl  -^ 
Unie,  UU  Ihey  reach  so  eiceedlog  lofly  Irea,  wt»n  «««• 

am.nee  chancei  Uofall. 

Mine  ey«  with  such  an  eager  coveting 

Were  benl  to  rid  Ihom  of  their  ton  yeais'  Ihinrt,' 

No  other  seosa  was  waking :  and  e'en  tbey 

lo.He  aod  goneraL  m  BppLjinj  tenn.   oipnulve  of  coks, 

'""ereof  an  In.tence  may  ta  Keo  In  wme  lii«enlo1u  nrnsAi 

IflH-GliiB^r'nToT     '^"°''    •*'"*''' ^"■■■' **^  ^ 

.  i 

—~-^ 

i         ^m^ 

PirUOATORV,  Cmro  XKXO. 


3DI 


Were  fenced  on  ejther  Bide  from  heed  or  aughl ; 

So  tangled,  in  its  curIoui'iI  Imh,  that  tuule 

Of  ssintly  bnghCueie  drew  me  to  itself: 

Wlien  foTciblj,  towaid  (he  lell.  my  Bght 

llie  B&cied  virgins  tnra'd  ;  for  froia  their  Upa 

I  heard  Ibe  warning  ecninds  ;  "  Too  &x'd  a  gate !"' 

Awhile  my  viaioa  labor'd  ;  as  when  lute 
Upon  the  o'erstrained  eyce  [)]e  Bim  liath  smote : 
Bnt  soon,'  Id  lesser  object,  as  Ibe  view 
Was  DOW  recovei'd,  (lener  in  respect 
To  that  excoaa  of  sengihlB,  whence  late 
I  had  perforce  been  aundBr"!!,)  on  Iheir  right 
1  mark'd  that  glorioiw  army  wheel,  and  lum, 
Againsl  the  sua  aod  sereafoid  IJghts,  their  fronL 
As  wlien,  their  bucklers  for  protection  raised, 
A  well-ranged  troop,  with  portly  bajmeta  curj'd, 
Wheel  circlingi  ere   tho  whole   can  ctmnge   their 
E'en  thus  the  goodly  regiment  of  heaven,    [ground  [ 
Proceeding,  all  did  pass  ua,  ere  the  [tui 
Had  ^aped  his  beam.     Attendant  at  (he  wheels 
The  damsels  tum'd  ;  and  on  (he  Gryphon  moved 
The  sacred  burden,  with  a  pace  so  smooth. 
No  feather  an  him  trembled.     The  fair  dame, 
Who  through  the  wave  had  drawn  mo,  companied 
By  Statius  and  myself,  pursued  the  wheel, 
Whose  orbit,  rolling,  mark'd  a  Leaser  arch,      pilanie. 

Through  the  high  wood,  now  vrud  (the  more  her 
Who  by  the  serpent  was  beguiled)  I  pass'd. 
With  step  in  cadence  to  the  harmony 
AngeUc.     Onward  had  we  moped,  as  far. 

Full  win^d  had  sped,  when  from  her  station  down 

Descended  Beatrice.     With  one  voice 

All  rourmur'd  "  Adam ;"  circling  nest  a  jriant' 

1  TM^'tfafsit]    The  allsgoilca]  laurpntatlanafVel- 

Dodis.  "  Tbs  aadsnlaad^  Is  vmellma  »  inlsBlly  bb- 
^ged  Id  cofllemplHllnj  the  UifaL  at  tliiflne  troth  la  the  Scrip- 
torsi,  Ihkl  It  Incaiiwi  duzl^  and  li  outde  lois  cainbla  at 
— .^ 1  . ._.__  -■- -    If  n inul soogbt Bftar  11  wiih 


393  THK  VISION. 

DsBpoit'd  of  flowera  and  leaf,  on  every  bongh. 
Its  iTHBsea,'  spreadiog  nions  ns  more  iJiay  row, 
Were  audi,  as  'midsl  Iheir  foreal  wildfl,  for  heiehtrB 
Tbe  Indians'  might  have  gaied  at     "  Btegi9e<rthi 
GrypliDn  !'  whose  heak  hath  never  pluck'd  Ihal  ti 
Pleasant  to  taste :  for  hence  the  appetite 
Wbb  wajp'd  to  evil."     Round  the  stately  trunk 
ThicB  alionted  forth  the  rest,  to  wbooi  return'd 
Tho  auimal  twiee-gender'd :  "  Yea !  foe  aa 
Tho  generation  of  the  juM  are  saved." 
And  turning  (o  the  ohariot-potts,  to  fool 
He  drew  it  of  the  widuw'd  branch,  aiid  bound 
There,  left  unto  the  stock'  whereon  it  grew. 

As  when  largo  floods  of  radianoe'  from  aboi 
Stream,  with  that  radiance  mingled,  which  aace 
Next  after  setting  of  the  scaly  aign, 
Our  [diuits  then  burgein,  and  each  weara 
His  wonted  cotors,  ere  the  aun  have  yoke 


of  gDud  and  evil,  bl 


ss^KisrJ: 

ilended,  and  parMcnlaily  bi>  lnji 
I  the  lhln«  iSil  MB  QbW.."^ 
Ol,  .UctT  Danu  hei»  xenu. 

aMOfl 

„',.sas.r„"i 

WM  InBlilod  by  one 

in  MDify  tor  Itie  Ma 

I  of  all  men.    S«  turts  u  PubiIIib,  e. 

'«<«■ 

L 

i 

\ —      mi 

15.  PURGATOKY,  Canto  XXXIL  393 

Beneath  aaotbcr  Btiu  hie  flamy  Bteedg  ; 
Thus  putting  forth  a  bue  mora  faint  Ihan  rose. 
And  deapoi  than  the  violet,  WUB  reoew'd 
The  plant,  rrewhile  iu  all  its  braacheB  bare. 
Uoeirthly  was  the  hyinn,  which  then  aroee, 
I  imderBtood  it  not,  uor  to  the  «ud 

dared  the  harmony.     Hod  I  the  skiU 
pMicil  forth  how  closed  the  unpitying  eyea' 
Slumbering,  when  Syrinx  warbled,  (eyes  that  pud 
So  dearly  for  their  watching)  then,  like  punter, 
That  with  a  model  paintij,  I  taight  deai^ 
The  manner  of  my  falling  into  sleep. 
But  feign  who  will  the  slumber  cunningly, 
I  peaa  it  by  In  when  1  waked  ;  and  tell. 
How  saddenly  a  Hash  of  splendor  rent 
llie  curtam  of  my  Bleep,  and  one  cries  OQl, 
"Arise:  what  dost  thou?"     As  the  chosen  three. 
On  Tabor's  mount,  admitted  to  behold 
The  blossoming  of  thai  fair  tree,'  whose  fruit 
Is  coveted  of  angels,  and  doth  make 
Perpetual  foast  in  heaven ;  lo  tbemselves 
Retnming,  at  the  word  whence  deeper  sleeps' 
Were  broken,  ttiey  their  tribe  diminish'd  saw ; 
Both  Moses  and  Elias  gone,  and  changed 
The  stole  their  master  wore  ;  thu»  to  myself 
Retnmiug,  over  me  beheld  I  stand 
The  piteous  one,'  who,  cross  the  stream,  had  brongbt 
My  steps.     "  And  where,"  all  doubting,  I  exclaim'd, 
"  Is  BaatriccI" — "See  her,"  she  repUed, 
•'  Beneath  Che  fresh  leaf,  seated  on  its  roat. 
Behold  the  aseociata  choir,  that  circlea  her. 
The  others,  with  a  melody  more  sweet 
And  more  profound,  journeying  to  higher  realms, 
Upon  the  Gryphon  tend."     If  there  her  words 
Wera  closed,  1  know  not ;  but  mine  eyes  had  now 
Ta'en  view  of  her,  by  whom  all  other  thoaghts 
Were  barr'd  admittance.     On  the  very  ground 


•  Deatr  tldrpi.)    The 
ndST  or  the  Bynago^o'A 

*  Ttupttenu  0IU.1    M 


3Qi  THE  VISION.  OHX. 

Did  make  themselves  s  clniner  roaiid  about  hei  ] 
And,  in  their  hands,  upheld  those  lighls'  eecuK 
From  blast  septvntrioa  and  the  gusty  soutli. 

"  A  tittle  while  Ihou  xh^t  b?  forester  here ; 
And  citriea  ahalt  be,  for  ever  with  mo, 
Of  that  [rue  Rome,' wherein  Christ  dwells  a  Komaa, 
To  profit  the  misguided  world,  keep  now 
Thine  eyes  upon  tlie  cur ;  anil  what  thou  aee 
Take  heed  thou  writOi  returning  to  that  plaa 

TliuB  Beatrice :  at  whose  feet  inclined 
Devout,  at  h«r  behest,  my  thought  and  eyesi 
1,  as  she  bade,  directed.    Never  Hce, 
With  so  swift  motion,  forth  a  stormy  clond 
Leap'd  downward  from  the  welkin's  farthest  bound, 
As  1  beheld  the  bird  of  Jove*  descend 
Down  llirough  the  tree ;  and,  as  he  ruah'd,  the  rind 
Diapurting  crush  beneath  him  ;  buda  much  more, 
And  leaftels.    On  the  car,  with  all  his  might 
He  struck;  whence,  staggering,  like  a  ship  it  reei'd. 


I 


At  ri 


mdrii 


ence,  staggering,  like  a  shi 
'en,  to  stanioard  now,  o'erc< 


And  now  to  larboard,  by  the  vaulting 

Next,  springing  up  into  the  chariot's  womb, 
A  fox'  I  saw,  with  hunger  seeming  piii»d 
Of  all  good  fcwd.  But,  for  his  ugly  sins 
The  saintly  maid  rebuking  him,  away 
Scampering  he  tum'd,  fast  as  his  hide-bonnd 
Would  bear  him.  Neitt,  from  whence  before  ho  ■ 
I  saw  the  eagle  dart  into  the  hull 
O'  the  car,  and  leave  it  with  his  feathers  Uned  f 
And  then  a  voice,  like  that  which  issues  forth 
From  heart  witli  sorrow  rived,  did  issue  forth 
From  heaveu,  and,  "  O  poor  bark  of  mine  I"  i 
"  How  badly  art  thou  ftoighted."  Then  it  se 
That  the  earth  open'd,  between  either  wheel 
And  1  beheld  a  dragon'  issue  thence, 


4 


'■n., 

/.giM.i 

Th 

Upera  of  gold. 

J 

yifth 

Bl'o^rr 

tT'n 

""' 

■t6ci>™*n 

.u^ 

flta 

protablyl 

rep 

resenH 

~1Uh,d««IM 

/•Ufuili 

cr. 

(«<,]    In 

slln 

Ion  u 

■lie  doBUU 

131-157.       PUKGATORY,  Canto  XXXIII.         395 

That  through  the  chariot  fix'd  his  forked  train  ; 

And  like  a  wasp,  that  draggeth  hack  the  sting, 

So  drawing  forth  his  baleful  train,  he  dra^'d 

Part  of  the  bottom  forth  ;  and  went  his  way 

Exulting.    What  remained,  as  lively  turf 

With  green  herb,  so  did  clothe  itself  with  plumes,* 

Which  haply  had,  with  purpose  chaste  and  kind. 

Been  ofTer'd  ;  and  therewith  were  clothed  the  wheels, 

Both  one  and  other,  and  the  beam,  so  quickly, 

A  sigh  were  not  breathed  sooner.   Thus  transformed, 

The  holy  structure,  through  its  several  parts. 

Did  put  forth  heads  ;^  three  on  the  beam,  and  one 

On  every  side  :  the  first  like  oxen  hornM  ; 

But  with  a  single  horn  upon  their  front. 

The  four.     Like  monster,  sight  hath  never  seen. 

0*er  it'  methought  there  sat,  secure  as  rock 

On  mountain's  lofty  top,  a  shameless  whore, 

Whose  ken  roved  loosely  round  her.     At  her  side, 

As  'twere  that  none  might  bear  her  off,  I  saw 

A  giant  stand ;  and  ever  and  anon 

They  mingled  kisses.     But,  her  lustful  eyes 

Chancing  on  me  to  wander,  that  fell  minion 

Scourged  her  from  head  to  foot  all  o'er ;  then  full 

Of  jealousy,  and  fierce  with  rage,  unloosed 

The  monster,  and  dragged  on,^  so  far  across 

The  forest,  that  from  me  its  shades  alone 

Shielded  the  harlot  and  the  new-form'd  brute. 


CANTO   XXXIII. 


ARGUMENT. 

After  a  hymn  sung,  Beatrice  leaves  the  tree,  and  takes  with 
her  the  seven  virgins,  Matilda,  Statins,  and  Dante.    She 

1  With  plumes.']  The  increase  uf  wealth  and  lemiwral  do- 
minion, which  followed  the  supposed  gift  of  Constantino. 

>  Heads.']  By  the  seven  heads,  it  is  'supposed  with  suffi- 
cient probability,  are  meant  the  seven  capital  sins :  by  the 
three  with  two  horns,  pride,  anger,  and  avarice,  injurious  both 
to  man  himself  and  to  his  neighbor :  by  the  four  with  one 
horn,  gluttony,  gloominess,  concupiscence,  and  envy,  hurtful, 
at  least  in  their  primary  effects,  chiefly  to  him  who  is  guilty 
of  them.  Vellutello  refers  to  Rev.  xvii.  Landino,  who  is 
followed  by  Lombard!,  understands  the  seven  heads  to  signify 
the  seven  sacraments,  and  the  ten  horns  the  ten  command- 
ments.   Compare  Hell,  c.  xix.  113. 

>  O'er  it.]  The  harlot  is  thought  to  represent  the  state  of 
the  church  under  Boniface  VII [.,  and  the  giant  to  figure 
Philip  IV.  of  France. 

*  Dragged  on.]  The  removal  of  the  pope's  reftidence  ftoia 
Rome  to  Avignon  ia  pointed  at. 


I 


THE   VISION. 
;ii  dorklr  predlen  u  muFonB  «Kna 


1  oome  :"  reBpnnaive  IhoB, 
mody  b«gaii, 


" The henthon,' Lord! 

The  trinnl  now,  and  now 

(Jiinternion,  their  swspI  p 

Weeping;  and  Beatrice  I 

And  BJeliing.  to  the  aoag, 

ThM  Mniy,  HI  she  itood  bnde  Ihe  cross,  [plaeo 

Was  scarce  more  chonged.     Bnt  when  they  gsre  her 

To  Bpeak,  then,  risen  upright  on  her  feet, 

She,  with  a  color  glowing  bright  as  fire, 

Did  answer ;  "  Yet  a  Utile  while,'  and  ye 

Shall  see  me  not ;  and,  roy  beloved  eistera  '. 

Awin  a  little  while,  and  ye  shall  see  me." 

Before  her  Ihen  >he  manhall'd  all  the  seven  ; 
And,  beckoning  only,  motlon'it  me,  the  dame, 
And  that  remaining  eage,°  to  follow  her. 

So  on  she  pass'd ;  and  had  not  set.  I  ween, 
Her  tenth  step  to  the  ground,  when,  with  mine  i 
lier  eyea  encounter'd  ;  and,  with  visage  mild, 
"  So  mend  tby  pace,"  she  cried,  "  that  if  my  wi 
Aildreaa  thee,  thou  inuyat  etIH  be  aptly  placed 


I  duly  to 


I  now  bad  hasleu'd :  "Brother!"  she  began, 
"  Why  inakeet  thou  no  allempl  al  queslioninif. 
As  thus  we  walk  togeliier?"     IJke  to  thtxw 
Who,  speaking  with  loo  reuerenl  an  awe 
Before  their  betters,  draw  not  forth  the  voice 
Alive  unto  Iheii  lips,  befell  me  tlien 
That  I  in  sounds  imperfect  thus  began : 
"  Lady  !  what  1  have  need  of,  that  ibou  kuow'st ; 
And  what  will  suit  my  need."    She  answering  thua 
■'  Of  fcarfulnese  and  shame,  I  will  that  thou 
Henoeforth  do  rid  thee  ;  that  thou  speak  no  more, 
As  one  who  drDams.'     Thus  far  be  langht  of  me : 
The  vessel  which  thou  eaw'st  the  serpent  break, 


—  Se  parole  C 


n,  L.  L  ■.  4L       ^^^ 


^- 


74-92.  PURGATORY,  Canto  XXXm.         399 

And,  to  that  hardness,  spotted  too  and  stain'd, 

So  that  thme  eye  is  dazzled  at  my  word ; 

I  will,  that,  if  not  written,  yet  at  least 

Painted  thoa  take  it  in  thee,  for  the  cause,   [palm."^ 

That   one  brings  homo   his  staff  inwreath'd  with 

I  thus :  "  As  wax  by  seal,  that  changeth  not 
Its  impress,  now  is  stamp'd  my  brain  by  thee. 
But  wherefore  soars  thy  wish'd-for  speech  so  high 
Beyond  my  sight,  that  loses  it  the  more. 
The  more  it  strains  to  reach  it  ?" — "  To  the  end 
That  thou  mayst  know,"  she  answer'd  straight, "  the 
That  thou  hast  foUow'd ;  and  how  far  behind,  [school, 
When  following  my  discourse,  its  learning  halts : 
And  mayst  behold  your  art,^  from  the  divine 
As  distant,  as  the  disagreement  is  [orb." 

'Twixt  earth  and  heaven's  most  high  and  rapturous 

"  I  not  remember,"  I  replied,  "  that  e'er 
I  was  estranged  from  thee  ;  nor  for  such  fault 
Doth  conscience  chide  me."     Smiling  she  retum'd : 


1  7%at  one  brings  home  his  staff  invDreatVd  with  palm.'] 
"  For  the  same  cause  that  the  palmer,  returning  from  Pales- 
tine, brings  home  his  staff,  or  bourdon,  bound  with  palm," 
that  is,  to  show  where  he  has  been. 

Che  si  reca  '1  bordon  di  palma  cinto. 

"  It  is  to  be  understood,"  says  our  Poet  in  the  Vita  Nuova, 
"  that  people,  who  go  on  the  service  of  the  Most  High,  arc 
probably  named  in  three  ways.  They  are  named  palmers^ 
inasmuch  as  they  go  beyoncl  sea,  from  whence  they  often 
bring  back  the  palm.  Inasmuch  as  they  go  to  the  house  of 
Galicia,  they  are  called  pilgrims ;  because  the  sepulchre  of 
St.  James  was  further  from  his  country  than  that  of  any 
other  Apostle.  They  are  called  Romei,"  (for  which  I  know 
of  no  other  word  we  have  in  English  except  Roamers,)  "  in- 
asmuch as  they  go  to  Rome."  p.  275. 

"  In  regard  to  the  word  bourdon,  why  it  has  been  applied  to 
a  pilgrim's  staff,  it  is  not  easy  to  guess.  I  believe,  however, 
that  this  name  has  been  given  to  such  sort  of  staves,  because 
pilgrims  usually  travel  and  perform  their  pilgrimages  on  foot, 
their  staves  serving  them  instead  of  horses  or  mules,  then 
called  bourdons  and  burdones,  by  writers  in  the  middle  ages." 
Mr.  Johnes's  Translation  of  Joinville's  Memoirs,  Dissertation 
XV.,  by  M.  du  Cange,  p.  152,  4to  edit. 

The  word  is  thrice  used  by  Chaucer  in  the  Romaunt  of  the 
Rose. 

3  Mayst  behold  your  art.]  The  second  persons,  singular  and 
plural,  are  here  used  intentionally  by  our  author,  the  one 
referring  to  himself  alone,  the  second  to  mankind  in  general. 
Compare  Hell,  xi.  107.  But  I  will  follow  the  example  of 
Brunck,  who,  in  a  note  on  a  passage  in  the  Philoctetes  of 
Sophocles,  V.  369,  where  a  similar  distinction  requires  to  be 
made,  says  that  it  would  be  ridiculous  to  multiply  instances 
in  a  matter  so  well  known. 


=i 


1S7>1«.     PURGATORY,  Canto  XXXm.  401 

Liead  thither ;  and,  as  thoa  art  wont,  revive 

His  fainting  virtue."     As  a  courteous  spirit, 

That  proffeiB  no  excuses,  bat  as  soon 

As  he  hath  token  of  another's  will. 

Makes  it  his  own ;  when  she  had  ta'en  me,  thus 

The  lovely  maiden  moved  her  on,  and  call'd 

To  Statius,  with  an  air  most  lady-like : 

**  Come  thou  with  him."    Were  further  space  allow'dy 

Then,  Reader !  might  I  sing,  though  but  in  part, 

That  beverage,  with  whose  sweetness  I  had  ne'er 

Been  sated.     But,  since  all  the  leaves  are  full, 

Appointed  for  this  second  strain,  mine  art 

With  warning  bridle  checks  me.     I  retum'd 

From  the  most  holy  wave,  regenerate, 

E'en  as  new  plants  renew'd^  with  foliage  new, 

Pure  and  made  apt  for  mounting  to  the  stars. 

i  Renewed.] 

come  piante  novelle 

Rinnovellate  da  novella  fronda. 

So  new  this  new-borae  knight  to  battie  new  did  rise. 

Spenser,  J^iery  Queene,  b.  1.  c.  xl.  st.  34. 

"  Rinnovellate**  is  another  of  those  words  which  Chancer 
in  vain  endeavored  to  introduce  into  our  lanipiage  from  the 
Italian,  unless  it  be  supposed  that  he  rather  borrowed  it  flrom 
the  French.  "  Certes  ones  a  yere  at  the  lest  way  it  is  lawfhl 
to  ben  houseled,  for  sothely  ones  a  yere  all  things  in  the  earth 
renovelen.**    Tft«  Peraoiura  Tale. 

26 


V 


THE  VISION  OF  DANTE. 


PARADISE. 


DllBd.  "'-"  -"  '"  ™ 

HiH  glojy,  bj  whoee  might  all  tliingB  are  moved, 
nercea  ,li8  univeisc.'  and  in  ooe  part 
She*  mora  reiplendpncc  elBewh«ole»,    In  hea«n, 
That  largelieal  of  hia  light  partak™,  was  I, 
Witness  of  thiiigB,  which,  to  relate  aaaln. 
Surpaneth  power  of  him  wlio  comes  fmni  thonoo ; 
for  ihal,  so  near  approncliiiigits  denire, 
Ouriiittllectk  to  such  depth' absorb'd 
Thalmemorycannotfoilow,     NathleM  all. 
That  in  my  thouglila  I  of  that  sacred  realm 
Could  Wore,  sliall  now"  be  matter  af  my  song. 


",B,-a^^ 


401                        THE  VLSION.                      ^^| 

Beoign  Apollo :'  thia  last  labor  aid ;                ^^M 

Aud  miLke  me  aiich  ti  veBsel  of  Ihy  worth,            ^^H 

As  [hy  own  laurel  claima,  of  rae  beloved.            ^^1 

Thus  fur*  hath  one  of  steep  PBrnassus'  bro<»      ^^M 

Eotei  iulo  my  boaom.  and  there  breathe                ^^M 

So,  at.  when  MatByas*  by  thy  hand  was  dragg'd     ^^ 

Forth  froiD  Ills  limba,  uiuheathed.     0  power  difuie! 

If  thou  to  me  of  Uiine  unpart  ea  much. 

Timt  of  tbnt  happy  realm  the  shadowM  rami 

Traced  id  my  Ihoughts  I  may  set  forth  to  view; 

Thou  Hhail  behold  me  of  thy  favor-d  Irea                  ^H 

Come  to  the  fool,  and  crown  myself  witl»,InTe>i^H 
p-or  to  that  honor  Ihoo,  and  my  high  th^          ^H 

WiUfitme.     K but  seldom,  mighty  Sire!              ^H 

To  grace  lua  triumph,  gathers  thence  tt  wreath      ^^^ 

Cfflear,  or  bard,'  (more  ahame  for  human  wills                ] 

Depraved,)  joy  to  the  Delphic  god  muBt  apring 

1  BrAiffn  jipolh.]    Chanwr  hM  Irallitod  this  inroeUtoa      .' 

very  cloMly,  al  Ihe  boglonlng  of  tbc  Thlid  Booke  of  Fi 

Thatmmyhe^ymttrkBdLh 

ThouihallMDnieBOBibllva 

Unlu  the  ubiI  Lsuiel  I  ■». 

ADdttsMiCforitUUiylrBe. 

Now  ealre  Ihoo  my  breMl  uiooe. 

s  Tim  far.]    He  appesn  lo  mean  nolhlngoion  11^ 

portomlisnihBfcmBrT     "^''      '  S™*    '  " 

ntlcr  sorh  sonod  u  whoa  Uina  djdit  contend  wllb 

sysa. 

'  JVa^o..]    Ovitf,  Met,  lib.  vl.  (ih.  7.    Compm  B 
do,    IL  j'ilocopo.  III),  y.  p.  4J.  V.  U.  Edit  Fir.  Vkt. 

nel  mio  pelU)  entri,"  Ilc^"  May  he  eotei  my  bonNn,  « 

my  voice  BDund  like  bli  awn,  wben  he  mode  (hut  darlni 

•  Conr,  BT  iard.]    Bu  Felraicb.  S<m.  Far,  Prinm. 

Onnr  d'  Impenidori  e  dl  pooU. 

An,i  Preiii.    U  Qnodrir,,  lib,  lU,  cap,  W, 

1-  BllMO, 

AndSlKJUW.    P.a„b,Lc.l..l,9, 

Andpoeuiote. 

J 

31-53.  PARADISE,  Canto  I.  40f 

Ftom  the  Peaeimi  foliage,  when  one  bresBt 
la  with  auch  Ibirat  in^ired.     From  a  smnll  apark' 
Great  flniiie  halh  risen ;  Eifter  me,  perchanne, 
OlberB  witb  bEtCer  voice  may  pray,  and  gain, 
From  the  Cyrrbman  city,  answer  kind. 

Tbrougb  diveis  passages,  Ibe  world's  bright  lamp 
Rises  to  mortals  ;  but  Ibroitgli  that''  wbicb  joins 
"  "    '         ilb  the  threefold  cross,  in  best 


and  in  happiest  ci 


ilellation 


ioming  there,' 
Here  eve  was  well  oigh  by  Eueb  passage  made  ; 
And  whiteness  bad  o'erspread  that  hemisphere. 
Blackness  the  other  part ;  when  to  the  left' 
J  saw  Beatrice  tom'd,  and  on  the  sun 
Gazing,  as  never  eagle  fix'd  his  ken. 
As  from  the  first  a 
To  is  "      " 

Even  as  a  pilgrim  bent  on  bis  re 
So  of  her  act,  that  Ibrougb  the  eyesight  pass'd 
Into  my  fancy,  mine  was  form'd :  and  straight, 
BeyaQd  out  mortal  wont,  I  fix'd  mine  eyes 
Upon  the  sun.     Much  is  allow'd  ns  there, 


■tl 


B,  and  reflected  iii 


.Tassi, 


fllcat  tir  In  penigi1na.llaae  cDnilltutoi,  < 


406  THE  VISION. 

That  here  exceeds  our  power  j  Ihants  lo  the 
Mqde'  for  the  ilwelltug  of  tlie  human  hind. 

I  Bufiet'd  it  not  long ;  and  yet  so  long, 
That  1  beheld  it  bickering  sparks  arauntl. 
As  iron  Uiul  cornea  boiibig  from  the  fire.' 
And  suddenly  upoo  the  day  appeor'd' 
A  daj  new-risen  ;  as  he,  who  hath  iho  power. 
Had  witli  another  sun  bedecU'd  the  sky. 

Her  Byes  fast  fix'd  on  the  atemul  wheels,* 
Beatrice  stood  unmoved ;  siid  1  with  ken 
Fix'd  upoo  her.  froni  upward  ea^te  removed. 
At  tier  aspect,  such  inwardly  becaiuo 
As  Ulaucus,'  wile!)  he  tasted  uf  the  hsHi 
I'hat  niKdo  hitn  peer  among  tlie  oceaa  ^oda: 
Words  may  not  [ell  of  that  tranuhuman  cbange ; 
And  therefore  ivt  the  example  SFrre,  Uiough  weak, 
For  those  whom  grace  hath  bettu  proof  m  atore. 


^ 


«.iu,^3.    1 


E  pai  ch'  Bggiiiiiga.  on  aim  solo  bI  cielo. 

JH«H0,  O.  F.,  c.  t.  It  109. 

JfariitB,  JJdunt^,  c.  ll.  flt.  ^. 
auiiidei  n  vnro  col  bo)  ma  idu  lucenle 
L'annelu  gU  apparl  >ulL'  orienta.        Thsb,  O.  L..  c  L 

RU'n  on  mid-nixm,  MilUii,  F.  L..  b.  v.  311. 

Cmopore  Eurlpidea.    Ion.  ISSIK    'A^fl^Aiov  Fpfcwimr. 


BtBge,  when  he  savs  thU  "  Aoclai  conipues  ibi-  muI,  In 
dcKenl.  InTBsteil  wllh  gnvinK  pnjadLcei,  u>  tilnocq* 
dlTlng  to  Ihe  bnlloin  of  (he  >«i,  and  Ihens  conoBi^Ung  dlim 


1  jCf.]  "  Thou,  O  divine  Spirit,  knowest  whether  I  had  not 
risen  above  my  human  natare,  and  were  not  merely  such  as 
thou  hadst  then  formed  me.*' 

3  Harmony.]    The  harmony  of  the  spheres. 

And  after  that  the  melodie  herd  he 
That  Cometh  of  thilke  spcris  thryis  three, 
That  Welles  of  musike  ben  and  melodie 
In  this  world  here,  and  cause  of  hamionie. 

Chaucer,  The  .Aasemble  of  Fhules. 

In  their  motion  harmony  divine 

So  smooths  her  charming  tones,  that  God's  own  oar 
Listens  delighted.  Milton,  P.  L.,  b.  v.  627. 

*  So  much  o/ Aeaoen.]  The  sphere  of  fire,  as  Lombardi  well 
explfuns  it. 

<  Prom  hence  the  form.'\  This  order  it  is,  that  gives  to  the 
universe  the  form  of  umty,  and  therefore  of  resemblance  to 

CrOd. 


i! 

i: 


71-103.  PARADISE,  Canto  I.  407 

If  ^  I  were  only  what  thou  didst  create, 
Then  newly,  Love !  by  whom  the  heaven  is  ruled ; 
Thou  know*8t,  who  by  thy  li^ht  didst  bear  mo  up. 
When  as  the  wheel  which  thou  dost  ever  guide, 
Desired  Spirit !  with  its  harmony,^ 

Temper'd  of  thee  and  measured,  charm'd  mine  car  I  _ 

Then  seemM  to  me  so  much  of  heaven*  to  blaze  , 

With  the  sun*s  flame,  that  rain  or  flood  ne*cr  made  jl 

A  lake  so  broad  The  newness  of  the  sound, 
And  that  great  light,  inflamed  mo  with  desire 
Keener  them  e'er  was  felt,  to  know  their  cause.  | ' 

Whence  she,  who  saw  me,  clearly  as  myself, 
To  calm  my  troubled  mind,  before  I  ask'd, 
Open'd  her  lips,  and  gracious  thus  began : 
**  With  false  imagination  thou  thyself 
Makest  dull ;  so  that  thou  seest  not  the  thing, 
Which  thou  hadst  seen,  had  that  been  shaken  off. 
Thou  art  not  on  the  e£U*th  as  thou  be  lie  vest ; 
For  lightning,  scaped  from  its  own  proper  place. 
Ne'er  ran,  as  thou  hast  hither  now  retum'd." 

Although  divested  of  my  first-raised  doubt 
By  those  brief  words  accompanied  with  smiles. 
Yet  in  new  doubt  was  I  entangled  more. 
And  said :  "  Already  satisfied,  I  rest 
From  admiration  deep ;  but  now  admire 
How  I  above  those  lighter  bodies  rise." 

Whence,  after  utterance  of  a  piteous  sigh, 
She  towards  me  bent  her  eyes,  with  such  a  look. 
As  on  her  phrensied  child  a  mother  casts ; 
Then  thus  began :  "  Among  themselves  all  things 
Have  order ;  and  from  hence  the  form,*  which  makes 
The  universe  resemble  God.     In  this 


408  THE  VISION. 

Tba  higher  creaturcB  ne  the  ptioW  atsps 

Of  Ihat  eternal  nortb,  which  ia  the  cud 

Whitber  the  lino  JB  drawn.'     A  " 

In  this  their  order,  diversely;  Boine  a, 

Some  lese  upproaching  ta  their  primal  Bource. 

Thus  they  to  ditferent  huveita  arc  moved  an 

Through  the  vast  aea  of  being,  and  each  one 

With  iDBtinct  given,  that  beus  it  in  its  cou 

This  (D  the  lunar  sphere  directs  the  lire  j 

This  moves  the  hearts  of  moital  animals  ; 

This  the  hnite  earth  together  knits,  and  tu 

Nor  only  creatures,  vind  of  intellect. 

Are  aim'd  at  by  tliix  bow  ;  but  oven  those, 

That  have  intelligence  and  love,  are  [Bero 

That  Prowdeiice,  who  so  well  ordera  all. 

With  her  own  light  makes  ever  calm  the  heav     , 

In  which  the  subHtance,  that  halh  greatest  speed,*! 

Is  tum'd :  and  thither  now,  as  to  our  seat 

PredBBtined,  we  are  carried  by  the  force 

Of  that  strong  cord,  that  never  loosei  dart 

But  at  fair  aim  end  glad.    Yet  ia  it  trae, 

That  as,  oft-timeB,  but  ill  accords  the  larrn 

To  the  deeign  of  art,  through  Bluggishnesa' 


If  aahitance,  that  kath  ffftatat  apptd.]     The  ft 
•rasgk  tlnggisixas.] 


"The  wnrkrann  hiilli In  hlj heart  i 


thaaj^hl  niDTe  fully.    "  SrJendam.  tu.,"  lib,  IL  n^S.    ■ 
mind  thai  'la  of  the  udit.  In  Ihe  Instroinenl,  sad  Ir 


of  which  Lhn  d^mlllluda  of  (be  eternal  piddnen  Is  ul 
In  vuwblB  mAttei;  and,  sb  the  HrUst  belDg  parlecl,  sj 
InsIninK'nt  in  the  best  onler.  If  there  ia  say  AOlt  In  A 


196-137.  PARADISE,  Cakto  II.  409 

Of  nnreplyui^  matter ;  lo  this  conrae* 
Is  sometimes  quitted  by  the  creature,  who 
Hath  power,  directed  thus,  to  bend  elsewhere ; 
An  from  a  cloud  the  ftro  is  seen  to  fall. 
From  its  original  impulse  warp'd,  to  earth, 
Bv  vicious  fondnew).     Thou  no  more  udmire 
Thy  soaring,  (if  I  rightly  deem,)  than  lapse 
Of  torrent  downwards  from  a  mountain's  hei^t. 
There  would'  in  thee  for  wonder  be  more  cause, 
If,  free  of  hinderance,  thou  hadst  stay'd  below, 
As  living  fire  unmoved  upon  the  earth." 

So  said,  she  tum'd  toward  the  heaven  her  face. 


CANTO    II. 


'1 


ARGUMILNT. 

Dante  and  his  celestial  f^iile  enter  the  moon.    The  cause  at\ 
the  spots  or  shadows,  which  appear  Ln  that  body,  is  ex- 
plained to  hiin. 

All  ye,  who  in  small  bark^  have  following  sail'd, 
Eager  to  listen,  on  the  adventurous  track 
Of  my  proud  keel,  that  singing  cuts  her  way. 
Backward  return  with  speed,  and  your  own  shores 
Revisit ;  nor  put  out  U>  open  sea, 
Where  losing  me,  perchance  ye  may  remain 
Bewilder'd  in  deep  maze.     The  way  I  pass, 
Ne'er  yet  was  run  :  Minerva  breathes  the  gale  ; 
Apollo  guides  mo  ;  and  another  Nine, 


appears  from  what  we  know  by  philosophy  concerning  heav- 
en) it  remaineth  that  whatever  fault  is  in  inferior  things,  is  a 
fkult  of  the  matter  worlced  on,  and  clean  beside  the  intention 
of  God  and  of  heaven." 

1  This  course.]     Some  beings,  abusing  the  liberty  given 
them  by  God,  are  repugnant  to  the  order  established  by  llim. 

*  TTiere  would.]    Hence,  {icrhaps,  Milton  : 

in  our  proper  motion  we  ascend 

Up  to  our  native  seat :  descent  and  fall 

To  us  were  adverse.  P.  L.,  b.  ii.  v.  77. 

*  In  small  bark.] 

Con  la  barchetta  niia  cantando  in  rima. 

Pulci,  Morg.  JUagg.,  c.  xzviil. 
lo  me  n^andrb  con  la  barchetta  mia, 
Q,uanto  Tacqua  comporta  un  picciol  legno.  Ibid. 

Say,  shall  my  little  bark  attendant  sail  1 

Pope,  Essay  on  J\faii,  Tjp.  Vv. 


!! 


ii 


any  pnt  i 


They  iiva,  yel  never  kuow  Batiaty  ; 
Through  llie  deep  brine  ye  /earless  i 
Your  vessel ;  markiug  well  the  rurrow  Broad 
Before  you  in  tlie  wave,  that  oq  both  sides 
Equal  returns.     Tlioee,  glorioua,  who  psss'il  o' 
To  Colclioe,  WDuder'd  nol  as  ye  will  do, 
When  Ihey  saw  Jason  fnllowing  the  jrfough. 
The  iticretite  perpetual  thirat,'  that  draws 
TowRrd  the  realm  of  God's  own  form,  bora  as 


wift  al 


eheav 


Beatrice  upward  gsied,  and  I  oa  her ; 
And  in  such  space  as  oa  the  nnlch  a  dart 
Is  placed,  then  loooen'd  flies,  I  eaw  myself 
Arrived,  where  woudrous  thing  engaged  my  sight 
Whence  she,  to  whoiri  uo  care  of  laiae  was  hid, 
Tumiug  (0  me,  with  aspect  glad  as  fair, 
Beapake  ma ;  "  Gratefully  direct  thy  mind 
To  God,  through  whom  to  this  first  star"  w 


Meai 


idh!uic< 


Translucent, 

solid.  t> 

rm,  and  uolisli'd  bright. 

Like  adamant,  wliich  the  Bun"s  beam  hod  Bmil. 

Wilhili  itself  the  oye 

Hecaived  us ; 

as  the 

wave  a  ray  of  light 

Kecaives,  and 

rests  u 

inbroken..  If  I  then 

Was  of  corpo 

■Balfra. 

Our  weaker  tl 

liought 

Another  couk 

endur 

e,  which  needs  must  be 

If  body  enter 

body; 

Must  the  dcs 

roinfla 

me  us  lo  behold 

Thai  essence 

which 

discovan  by  what  moans 

God  and  our 

oin'dl     There  will  be  soen 

Tliat,  which  WB  hold  through  fnith ;  not  sbown  bv 

E'en  as  the  t 

mh-  th 

at  man  at  first  believes. 

I 


I 

II 

fJhTO.  PARADISE,  Canto  II.  411  |! 

I  answer'd :  "  Lady  !  I  with  thoafrhta  devout, 
Such  as  I  best  can  frame,  give  thanks  to  him,  || 

Who  hath  removed  me  from  the  mortal  world. 
But  tell,  I  pray  thee,  whence  the  gloomy  spots 
Upon  this  body,  which  below  on  earth 
Give  rise  to  talk  of  Cain'  in  fabling  quaint  V* 

She  somewhat  smiled,  then  spake :  "  If  mortals  err 
In  their  opinion,  when  the  key  of  sense 
Unlocks  not,  surely  wonder's  weapon  keen 
Ought  not  to  pierce  thee :  since  thou  ftnd'st,  the  wings 
Of  reason  to  pursue  the  senses'  flight  r 

Are  short.     But  what  thy  own  thought  is,  declare."  -  > 

Then  I :  "  What  various  here  above  appears. 
Is  caused,  I  deem,  by  bodies  dense  or  rare."^ 

She  then  resumed :  "  Thou  certainly  wilt  see 
In  falsehood  thy  belief  o'erwhelm'd,  if  well  ! 

Thou  listen  to  the  arguments  which  I  | 

Shall  bring  to  face  it.     The  eighth  sphere  displays 
Numberless  lights,^  the  which,  in  kind  and  size. 
May  be  remark'd  of  different  aspects : 
If  rare  or  dense  of  that  were  cause  alone, 
One  single  virtue  then  would  be  in  all ; 
Alike  distributed,  or  more,  or  less. 
Different  virtues  needs  must  be  the  fruits 


conjecture,  eUaaia"  I  cannot  resist  adding  a  passage  to  the 
like  effect  from  Hooker's  Ecclesiastical  Polity,  b.ii.  $7.  "The 
truth  is,  thut  the  mind  of  inau  desireth  evermore  to  know 
the  tnith,  according  to  the  most  infiillible  certainty  which 
the  nature  of  things  can  yield.  The  greatest  assurance 
generally  with  all  men,  is  that  which  we  have  by  plain  as- 
pect and  intuitive  beholding.  Where  we  cannot  attiin  unto 
this,  there  what  ap])eareth  to  be  true,  by  strong  and  invinci- 
ble demonstmtion,  such  as  wherein  it  is  not  by  any  way 
possible  to  be  deceived,  thereunto  the  mind  doth  neces- 
sarily assent,  neither  is  it  in  the  choice  thereof  to  do  other- 
wise. And  in  case  these  both  do  fail,  then  which  way 
greatest  probability  leadeth,  thither  the  mind  doth  evermore 
incline." 

1  Cain.]    Compare  Hell,  Canto  zx.  J23,  and  note. 

9  By  bodies  dense  or  rare.]  Lombardi  observes,  that  the 
opinion  resjKJcting  the  spots  in  the  moon,  wliich  Dante  repre- 
sents himself  as  hero  yielding  to  the  arguments  of  Beatrice, 
is  professed  by  our  author  in  the  Convito,  so  that  we  may 
conclude  that  work  to  have  been  composed  before  this  por- 
tion of  the  Dtvina  Commcdia.  "  The  shadow  in  the  moon 
is  nothing  else  but  the  nirity  of  its  body,  which  hinders  the 
rays  of  the  sun  from  terminating  and  being  reflected,  as  la 
other  parts  of  it"  P.  70. 

s  Jfumberless  lights.]  The  fixed  stars,  which  differ  both  in 
bulk  and  splendor. 


413 


TIIE  VISION. 


Of  formsl  prineipleB  ;  and  these,Baye  one,' 

Will  by  thy  renBonirg  be  deBtroy'd.     Beside, 

If  rnnly  were  af  that  dusk  tlie  cause, 

Which  thou  inquirert,  either  in  ■ome  part 

Tba[  plauet  must  Ihioiighant  be  void,  iior  fed 

With  its  own  mader;  or,  as  bodies  share 

Their  fst  and  leanuesa,  in  like  manner  Ihia 

Must  in  its  Totume  change  the  leaves.'     The  tiral, 

If  it  wei¥  Irue,  had  Ihrangh  the  aun'a  eclipse 

Bpen  mauifested,  hy  Cransparenoy 

Of  liKhl,  as  through  aught  rare  beridc  effused. 

But  this  is  not.     Tbererore  remiiina  to  see 

The  other  oauee :  and,  if  the  other  fall, 

Erroueous  so  must  prove  what  BBem'd  lo  Ihee. 

If  not  from  side  lo  side  this  rarity 

PoBB  through,  Ihere  needs  must  be  a  limit,  whence 

Its  contrary  no  farther  let«  it  pass. 

And  hence  the  beam,  that  from  without  proceeds. 

Must  he  pour'd  hack  ;  as  color  uomes,  through  ^an 

Reflected,  which  behind  it  lead  conceals. 

Now  wilt  (hon  say,  that  [here  of  murkier  hue, 

I  shown, 
By  being  thence  re'fraeted  farther  back. 
Fioni  this  perplexity  will  &ee  thee  soon 
Experience,  if  thereof  thou  trial  moke. 
The  fnuntahi  whence  your  arts  derive  then 
Three  mirrcrB  shalt  thou  take,  and  two  ren 
From  thee  aUke  ;  and  more  remote  the  third. 
Betwixt  the  fanner  pair,  shall  meet  thine  eyes; 
Then  tnm'd  toward  them,  causa  behind  Ihy  back  I 
A  light  to  stand,  that  on  the  three  shall  shmo, 
And  thus  reflected  come  (o  thee  from  all. 
Though  that,  beheld  most  distant,  do  not  atrelcb 
A  space  so  ample,  yet  iu  brightness  thou 
Wilt  own  it  equalling  the  rest     But  now. 


KW-130  PARADISE,  Canto  II.  413 

Ab  under  snow  the  ^rround,  if  the  warm  ray 

Smites  it,  remains  diHmuntled  of  the  Ime 

And  cold,  that  cover'd  it  before  ;  so  tliee, 

Dismantled  in  thy  mind,  I  will  infonn 

With  light  so  lively,  that  the  tremulous  beam 

Shall  quiver  where  it  fuIlH.     Within  the  heaven,* 

Where  peace  divine  inhabits,  circles  round 

A  body,  in  whose  virtue  lies  the  being 

Of  all  that  it  contauis.     The  following  heaven, 

That  hath  so  many  lights,  this  being  divides. 

Through  different  essences,  from  it  distinct. 

And  yet  contained  within  it.     The  other  orbs 

Their  separate  distinctions  variously 

Dispose,  for  their  own  seed  and  produce  apt. 

Thus  do  these  organs  of  the  world  proceed, 

As  thou  beholdest  now,  from  step  to  step ; 

Their  influences  from  above  deriving. 

And  thence  transmitting  downwards.    Mark  me  well ; 

How  through  this  passage  to  the  truth  I  ford. 

The  truth  thou  lovest ;  that  thou  henceforth,  alone, 

Mayst  know  to  keep  the  shallows,  safe,  untold. 

"  The  virtue  and  motion  of  the  sacred  orl)s. 
As  mallet  by  the  workman's  hand,  must  needs 
By  blessed  movers'  bo  inspired.     This  heaven,* 
Made  beauteous  by  so  many  luminaries. 
From  the  deep  spirit,^  that  moves  its  circling  sphere. 
Its  image  takes  and  impress  as  a  seal : 
And  as  the  soul,  that  dwells  within  your  dust. 
Through  members  different,  yet  together  form'd, 
In  different  powers  resolves  itself ;  e'en  so 
The  intellectual  efficacy  unfolds 
Its  goodness  multiplied  throughout  the  stars ; 
On  its  own  unity  revolving  still. 
Different  virtue^  compact  different 


1  Within  the  hcaren.^  According  to  our  Toct's  Kyfttcm, 
there  are  ten  heavens.  The  hcuven,  "  where  jM^acc  divine 
inhabit**,"  is  the  onipyroan  ;  the  body  within  it,  that  "  circles 
round,"  is  the  prinuiin  mobile ;  "  the  following  heaven,"  that 
of  the  fixed  stars ;  and  "  the  other  orbs,"  the  seven  lower 
heavens,  are  Saturn,  Jupiter,  Mars,  the  Sun,  Venus,  Mercury 
and  the  Moon.    Thus  Milton,  P.  L.,  b.  iii.  481 : 

They  pass  the  pi  mots  seven,  and  pass  the  fix'd. 
And  that  crj'stalline  sphere  whose  balance  weighs 
The  trepidation  talked,  and  that  first  moved. 

•  By  blessed  movrrs.^    By  angels. 

«  This  heaven.'\    The  heaven  of  fixed  stars. 
^  The  deep  spirit.]    The  moving  angel. 

•  Different  virtue.]    "  There  is  one  glory  of  the  sun,  vnifJi 
another  glory  of  the  moon,  and  another  glory  of  the  «\an*.  ^ot 


414  THE  VISIOS.  1 

MakcB  with  the  prBcioua  body  U  enlivens, 
With  wliich  it  knits,  as  life  in  yon  ia  knit. 
From  iU  original  imlura  full  of  jay. 
The  virtue  miugled'  Ihiough  the  body  BhineE. 
Ab  jny  through  pupl  of  the  liiing  eye. 
From  hence  proceede  tbct  which  from  light  Ic 
Seems  different,  and  not  irom  dense  or  rare. 
This  is  [be  formal  cauoe,  that  geueiatoa, 
PrDportion'd  to  its  power,  the  dusk  or  clear.'' 


C.\NTO   III. 


lini,  hod  Iweii  inmpelled  u>  v]iiliiHi  Ibefr  vowa;  and  ilia 

That  eun,"  which  erat  with  lovo  my  bosom  wann'di 
Had  of  fair  truth  unvoil'd  the  sweet  aspect, 
By  proof  of  right,  and  of  (he  false  reproof ; 
And  1,  to  own  myself  convmeed  and  free 
Of  douht,  as  much  ae  needed,  raised  my  head 
Erect  for  epeech.     But  hood  h  sight  nppear'd. 
Which,  eo  intent  to  mark  it.  beld  me  lu'd, 
That  of  confession  I  no  longer  thought. 

As  through  IraDslucent  and  smooth  gloaa,  or  wkf*    J 
Clear  and  lUimoved,  and  flowing  not  eo  deep  I 

Ab  that  its  bed  ie  dark,  the  shape  returoB  ■ 


That, 

on  while  forel 

end»e 

Come 

All  St 

etch-d  to  spea 

:;  fm 

m  whence  I  straight  eon- 

fhieh  raised,          [eeived, 

dfoui 

oiie.0. 

dill-™.),  ft™  B 

'"«t^'"S.-"ps;r'^S;^ 

hnvB  had  In  view  Ihronghoi 

ni.,.E<I.Bip.y,&.p.S«.    J 

1  Ti 

vinuinisflrd. 

Vlru 

SSb.,  lib.  Vl.  TS4,                  a 

Prlnclplo 

tw\am 

!.i.ti,|    Be».rlc 

JJ" 

M.w^.i    ■■Aotrr 

dtlho 

on[mr;[o>t»lorNiiKttn3 

l8-«0.  PARADISE,  Canto  II.  415 

Sudden,  as  I  perceived  them,  deeming  these 
Reflected  semblances,  to  see  of  whom 
They  were,  I  turn'd  mine  eyes,  and  nothin^r  saw ; 
Then  tum'd  them  back,  directed  on  the  ii^ht 
Of  my  sweet  guide,  who,  smiling,  shot  forth  beams 
From  her  celestial  eyes.     "  Wonder  not  thou," 
She  cried,  "  at  this  my  smiling,  when  I  see 
Thy  childish  judgment ;  since  not  yet  on  truth  ' 

It  rests  the  foot,  but,  as  it  still  is  wont. 

Makes  thee  fall  back  in  unsound  vacancy.  I 

True  substances  are  these,  which  thou  behold'st,  jj 

Hither  through  failure  of  their  vow  exiled.  I 

But  speak  thou  with  them  ;  listen^  and  believe,  '.', 

That  the  true  light,  which  fills  them  with  desire,  | 

Permits  not  from  its  beams  their  feet  to  stray."  1 1 

Straight  to  the  shadow,  which  for  converse  seem*d  ' 

Moat  earnest,  I  address'd  me  ;  and  began. 
As  one  by  over-eagerness  perplex'd : 
"  O  spirit,  born  for  joy !  who  in  the  rays 
Of  life  eternal,  of  that  sweetness  know'st 

The  flavor,  which,  not  tasted,  passes  far  ,1 

All  apprehension;  mo  it  well  would  please,  ■! 

If  thou  wouldst  tell  me  of  thy  name,  and  this 
Your  station  here."  Whence  she  with  kindness  prompt,  <  ■. 

And  eyes  glistering  with  smiles:  "  Our  charity,  ! 

To  any  wish  by  justice  introduced, 

Bars  not  the  door ;  no  more  than  she  above,  i| 

Who  would  have  all  her  court  be  like  herself.  ' 

I  was  a  virgin  sister  in  the  earth :  : ' 

And  if  thy  mind  observe  me  well,  this  form,  i 

With  such  addition  graced  of  loveliness,  '  [ 

Will  not  conceal  me  long;  but  thou  wilt  know  \> 

Piccarda,^  in  the  tardiest  sphere  thus  placed,  |j 

Here  'mid  these  other  blessed  also  blest,  '•  • 

Our  hearts,  whose  high  aflections  bum  alone  \ ' 

With  pleasure  from  the  Holy  Spirit  conceived,  !j 

Admitted  to  his  order,  dwell  in  joy.  i 

And  this  condition,  which  appears  so  low,  '.'• 

Is  for  this  cause  assign'd  us,  that  our  vows  \ ' 

Were,  in  some  part,  neglected  and  made  void." 

Whence  I  to  her  replied :  "  Something  divine 
Beams  in  your  countenances  wondrous  fair ; 
From  former  knowledge  quite  transmuting  you. 


,1 


1  Piccarda.]    The  sister  of  Corso  Donati,  and  of  Forcse, 
whom  we  have  seen  in  the  Purgatory,  Canto  xx\\\.    PelxwccAv 
has  been  supposed  to  allude  to  this  lady  in  li\s  TT\\iT[v\kYv  cv^ 
Chastity,  v.  160,  Ac. 


416  THE  VI8ION. 

Therefore  to  recollect  wu  I  w>  slow. 
But  what  thou  gayat  bath  lo  my  raemory 
Given  now  such  aid,  that  to  lelnice  yoiir  Td 
[b  easier.     Yet  intonn  mo,  ye,  who  here 
Are  boppy  ;  long  ye  for  a  hi^er  place, 
More  la  behold,  aod  more  in  love  to  dwell  1" 

She  with  Ihoao  other  apiOa  gently  Riniled ; 
Then  anuwor'd  with  such  glsdnesa,  that  she  asem'd 
With  love's  first  flune  lo  glow  :  "  Brother  •.  our  will 
Ib,  in  oompoaure,  settled  by  the  power 
Of  cbitrily,  who  makes  us  will  alone 
What  we  poswBs,  and  naught  beyond  desire: 
If  we  should  wisL^D  be  exalted  more, 
Then  niuet  our  wisbes  jar  with  the  high  will 
Of  him,  who  eels  us  here  ;  which  in  these  tubs 
Thou  wilt  conrese  not  possible,  if  here 
To  be  in  charity  must  needs  befall. 
And  if  her  nature  well  thou  contemplate. 
Aalher  it  is  inherent  in  this  elate 
Of  blessedness,  lo  keep  aurselves  within 
The  divine  will,  by  which  oui  wills  with  his 
Are  one.     So  that  as  we,  from  step  to  step, 
Are  placed  throughout  Ihis  kingdom,  pleases  all. 
Even  as  our  King,  who  in  us  plants  his  will ; 
And  in  liis  will  is  out  tranquillity ; 
It  is  the  lutghty  oceou,  whitlier  tendB 
Whatever  it  creates  and  nature  makes." 

Then  saw  I  clearly  how  each  spot  in  hsavee    i 
Is  Paradise,  though  with  like  gmcious  dew 
The  supreme  virtue  shower  not  over  aU. 

But  as  it  ohaucee,  if  one  sort  of  food 
Hath  satiated,  and  of  another  still 
The  appetite  remains,  that  this  is  aak'd, 
And  thanks  for  that  retum'd  ;  e'en  ao  did  I, 
In  word  and  motion,  bent  from  hei  to  leom 
What  wFb  it  was,'  through  which  she  hod  not  (ll 
The  shuttle  to  its  point.     She  thns  began: 
"  Exalted  worth  and  perfeotnes  of  life 
The  Lady'  higher  up  inshiinB  in  heaven, 
By  whose  puro  laws  upon  year  nether  oftrth 


M.)     ■ 


101-131.  PARADISE,  Canto  III  417 

The  robe  and  veil  they  wear ;  to  that  intent. 

That  e'en  till  death  they  may  keep  watch,  or  nleep, 

With  their  great  bridegroom,  who  accepts  each  vow, 

Which  to  his  gracious  pleasure  love  conforms. 

I  from  the  world,  to  follow  her,  when  young 

Escaped ;  and,  in  her  vesture  mantling  me, 

Made  promise  of  the  way  her  sect  enjoins. 

Thereafter  men,  for  ill  than  good  more  apt. 

Forth  snatch'd  me  from  the  pleasant  cloister's  pale. 

God  knows*  how,  after  that,  my  life  was  framed. 

This  other  splendid  shape,  which  thou  behold'st 

At  my  right  side,  burning  with  all  the  light 

Of  this  our  orb,  what  of  myself  I  tell 

May  to  herself  apply.     From  hcrr  like  mo 

A  sister,  with  like  violence  were  torn 

Tiie  saintly  folds,  that  shaded  her  fair  bro\vs. 

E'en  when  she  to  the  world  again  was  brought 

In  spite  of  her  own  will  and  better  wont, 

Yet  not  for  that  the  bosom's  inward  veil 

Did  she  renounce.     This  is  the  luminary 

Of  mighty  Constance,^  who  from  that  loud  blast, 


1  Ood  knoics.]  Rodolfo  da  Tos^ifinano,  Hist.  Sernph.  Rdig. 
P.  i.  p.  138,  as  cited  by  Loinhardi,  relates  the  following  le- 
gend of  Piccarda : — "  Her  hnnhcr  Corso,  inflamed  with  rage 
Against  his  virgin  sister,  having  joined  with  hiui  Farinata, 
an  infamous  assassin,  and  twelve  other  abandoned  rufii;ins, 
entered  the  monastery  by  a  ladder,  an<l  carried  away  his 
sister  forcibly  to  his  own  house ;  and  then  tearing  off  her 
religious  habit,  compelled  her  to  go  in  a  secular  garment  to 
her  nuptials.  Before  the  spouse  of  Christ  cumo  together 
with  her  new  husband,  she  knelt  down  before  a  crucifix  and 
recommended  her  virginity  to  Christ,  ii^oon  after  her  whole 
body  was  smitten  with  leprosy,  so  as  to  strike  grief  and 
horror  into  the  beholders ;  an<l  thus  in  a  few  days,  through 
the  divine  disposal,  she  passed  with  a  ])alm  of  virginity  to 
the  liOrd."  Perhaps,  adds  the  worthy  Franciscan,  our  Poet 
not  being  able  to  certify  himself  entirely  of  this  occurrence, 
has  chosen  to  pass  it  over  discreetly,  by  making  Piccarda 
say — 

God  knows  how,  after  that,  my  life  was  framed. 

3  Constance.]  Daughter  of  Ruggieri,  king  of  Sicily,  who 
being  taken  by  force  out  of  a  monastery  where  she  had  pro- 
fessed, was  married  to  the  Fimperor  Henry  VI.  and  by  him 
was  mother  to  Frederick  II.  She  was  fSfty  years  obi  or  more 
at  the  time,  and  'M)ecause  it  was  not  credited  that  she  could 
have  a  child  at  that  age,  she  was  delivered  in  a  pavilion,  and 
it  was  given  out  that  any  lady  who  pleased  was  at  liberty 
to  see  her.  Many  came,  and  saw  her;  and  the  su$!pici(m 
ceased."  Ricordano  Jtfalaspina  in  Jtfuratori,  Rer.  It.  Script., 
t.  viii.  p.  939 ;  and  O.  Viltani,  in  the  same  words,  Hist.,  lib.  v. 
C.16. 

The  French  translator  above-mentioned  speaks  of  her  hav- 
ing poisoned  her  hu.«hand.    The  death  of  Henry  y\.  \&  to 

27 


^mm 


418 


THE  VISION. 


Wliieh  blew  the  Becond'  ovct  Buabia'a  realm, 
That  power  produced,  which  was  Ihe  third  and  )bs1 

She  ceasrd  from  further  talk,  and  then  began 
"  Ave  Maria"  siagiag;  and  with  that  song 
Viiuiab'd,  aa  heavy  mibstance  through  duep  wavs.    j 

Mine  eye,  thai,  far  aa  it  wae  capsblB, 
Puisaed  her,  when  in  drnuios  she  waa  lost* 
Tuni'd  to  the  mark  where  greater  want  impelt'di 
And  baut  on  Beatrice  all  its  gazo. 
But  iihe,  aa  Ugbtiiing,  benin'd  upon  my  loolu; 
So  that  Ibe  Bight  aiutBlo'd  it  not  at  first. 
Whence  I  to  question  her  become  lesa  proinpL 


CANTO    IV. 


■nlu'B  or  cnnditlanal.    Hd  inqql™  wboiher  U  is  puuli 

Bktwekn  two  kinds  of  food,'  both  equally 
liemole  and  tenipting,  first  a.  man  might  die 
Of  hunger,  ere  he  one  could  freely  choaae. 
E'en  BO  would  stand  a  lamb  between  the  maw 
or  two  fierce  wolves,  in  dread  of  both  lilika : 
E'«u  BO  between  two  deei*  a  dog  would  stand. 
Wherefore,  if  1  wob  silent,  fault  iior  piaiae 
1  to  myeelf  impute  ;  by  equal  daubls 
Held  ill  suHpeime  ;  since  of  necessity 


cdrded  In  Ihe  C 


lEiD.  by  an  anonynHHH  n 
Inf  Ml  havinit  bcoa  poii 


PARADISE,  Canto  IV.  419 

t  happen'd.     Silent  was  I,  yet  desire 
..JVas  painted  in  my  looks ;  and  thus  I  spake 
-^fy  wish  more  earnestly  than  lan^iage  could. 

As  Daniel,'  when  the  haughty  kin^^  he  freed 
^rom  ire,  that  spurr'd  him  on  to  deeds  unjust 
And  violent ;  so  did  Beatrice  then. 

"  Well  I  discern,'*  she  thus  her  words  address'd, 
"  How  thou  art  drawn  by  each  of  these  desires  ;* 
So  that  thy  anxious  thought  is  iu  itself 
Bound  up  and  stifled,  nor  breathes  freely  forth. 
Thou  arguest :  if  the  good  intent  remain  ; 
What  reason  that  another's  violence 
Should  stint  the  measure  of  my  fair  desert  ? 

"  Cause  too  thou  find'st  for  doubt,  in  that  it  seems, 
That  spirits  to  the  stars,  as  Plato'  deemed, 
Return.     These  are  the  questions  which  thy  will 
Urge  equally ;  and  therefore  I,  the  first, 
Of  that^  will  treat  which  hath  the  more  of  gall.^ 
Of  seraphim'  he  who  is  most  enskied, 
Moses  and  Samuel,  and  either  John, 
Choose  which  thou  wilt,  nor  even  Mary's  self, 
Have  not  in  any  other  heaven  their  seats. 


^  Daniel.]  See  Daniel,  ii.  Beatrice  did  for  Dante  what 
Daniel  did  for  Nebuchadnezzar,  when  he  freed  the  king  from 
t)ie  uncertainty  respecting  his  dream,  which  had  enraged 
him  against  the  Chaldeans.  Lombardi  conjectures  that  "  Fo 
si  Beatrice"  should  be  read,  instead  of  "  Fcssi  Beatrice ;" 
and  his  conjecture  has  since  been  confirmed  by  the  Monto 
OBiSsino  MS. 

*  Bjf  each  of  these  desires.]  His  desire  to  have  each  of  the 
doubts,  which  Beatrice  mentions,  resolved. 

>  Plato.]  "EvffTi^aas  6i  k,  r.  X.  Plato,  Tinwus,  v.  ix.  p.  3-^i. 
Edit.  Bip.  "The  Creator,  when  he  had  framed  the  universe, 
distributed  to  the  stars  an  equal  number  of  souls,  appointing 
to  each  soul  its  several  star." 

*  Of  that.]    Plato's  opinion. 

»  Which  hath  the  more  of  gall.]  Which  is  the  more  dan- 
gerous. 

*  Of  Seraphim.]  "  He  among  the  Seraphim  who  is  most 
nearly  united  with  God,  Moses,  Samuel,  and  both  the  Johns, 
the  Baptist  and  the  Evangelist,  dwell  not  in  any  other  heaven 
than  do  those  spirits  whom  thou  hast  just  beheld ;  nor  does 
even  the  blessed  Virgin  herself  dwell  in  any  other:  nor  is 
their  existence  either  longer  or  shorter  than  that  of  these 
spirits."  She  first  resolves  his  doubt  whether  souls  do  not 
return  to  their  own  stars,  as  he  had  read  in  the  Timoius  of 
Plato.  Angels,  then,  and  beatified  spirits,  she  declares,  dwell 
all  and  eternally  together,  only  partaking  more  or  less  of  the 
divine  glory,  in  the  empyrean ;  although,  in  condescension  to 
human  understanding,  they  appear  to  have  diffeionl  sphcte^ 
aUatted  to  tbem. 


■r 


430 


THE  VISION. 


Thftii  haTe  UiosB  spirila  which  ao  late  thou  saw'sl 
Nor  more  oc  fewer  yeara  exist :  but  all 
Moke  the  fint  circle'  lieaateaus,  direraely 
Partaking  of  aweet  life,  bb  more  or  lea 
AMation  ofDtemal  blki  pervades  Ihem. 
Hero  wero  they  ahowii  thee,  not  [hat  fate  aaaigiu 
This  for  their  sphere,  hut  for  a  sign  to  Ifaee 
Of  that  celestial  faHhost  from  the  height. 
Thus  needa,  that  ye  may  apprehend,  we  apeak: 
Since  from  things  sensible  alone  ye  leani 
Thai,  which,  digested  rightly,  after  tnnis 
To  uiteilectuttl.     For  no  other  cause 
The  scripture,  condescending  graciously 
To  youi  perception,  handn  and  feet"  to  God 
AttrihutBB,  nor  an  meanH :  and  holy  church 
Doth  represent  with  ham  an  conntenancs 
Gabriel,  and  Michael,  and  hho  who  made 
Tohiss  whole.'     Unlike  what  here  thou  aeest. 
The  judgment  of  Timens,'  who  affirms 

BeUeving  it  lo  have  heen  taken  thence, 
When  nature  gave  it  to  inform  her  mould: 
Yet  lo  appearance  his  m 
Not  what  his  words  declare :  and  so  to  shun 
Derision,  haply  thns  he  Iiath  disguised 
His  true  opinion.'    If  his  meaning  be. 


u.]    InlheCDBVlIo.p.9S,«Br  Bulhot  spiin  I 

U  Is  In  order  lo  clve  llic  prererenco  la  Uu:  opinM 
i^^uB  II  tield  b;  AiiiUiltB. 
Hia  true  minion.]    In  like  ipiinnei.  out  leBrned  etllllnt 
:1  hu  proIeaEed  hlmtieir  "  «Hnewba.t  IncUniiblf  lo  tblBk 


1  That,  to  the  eye  of  man.]  "  That  the  ways  of  divine  jus- 
tice are  often  inscrutable  to  man,  ought  rather  to  be  a  motive 
to  faith  than  an  inducement  to  heresy."  8uch  appears  to  ine 
the  most  satisfactory  explanation  of  the  passage. 

2  TTiis  truth.]  That  it  is  no  impeachment  of  God's  justice, 
if  merit  be  lessened  through  compulsion  of  others,  without 
any  failure  of  goo<l  intention  on  the  part  of  the  meritorious. 
After  all,  Beatrice  ends  by  admitting  that  there  was  a  defect 
in  the  will,  which  hindered  Constance  and  the  others  from 
seizing  the  first  opportunity,  that  offered  itself  to  them,  of  re- 
turning to  the  monastic  life. 

»  iMurerice.]  Who  suffered  martyrdom  in  the  third  century. 

«  Scavola.)    See  Liv.  HisL,  D.  1,  lib.  ii.  12. 


ii 


58-M.  PARADISE,  Canto  IV.  421 

That  to  the  uifluencing  of  these  orbs  revert 
The  honor  and  the  blame  in  human  acts, 
Perchance  he  doth  not  wholly  miss  the  truth. 
This  principle,  not  understood  aright, 
Erewhile  perverted  well  nigh  all  the  world ; 
So  that  it  fell  to  fabled  names  of  Jove, 
And  Mercury,  and  Mars.     That  other  doubt. 
Which  moves  thee,  is  less  harmful ;  for  it  brings 
No  peril  of  removing  thee  from  me. 

"  That,  to  the  eye  of  mau,^  our  justice  seems 
Unjust,  is  argument  for  faith,  and  not 
For  heretic  declension.     But,  to  the  end 
This  truth^  may  stand  more  clearly  in  your  view, 
I  will  content  thee  even  to  thy  wish. 

"  If  violence  be,  when  that  which  suffers,  naught 
Consents  to  that  which  forceth,  not  for  this 
These  spirits  stood  exculpate.     For  the  will,  jl 

That  wills  not,  still  survives  unquencli'd,  and  doth, 
As  nature  doth  in  fire,  though  violence 
Wrest  it  a  thousand  times  ;  for,  if  it  yield 
Or  more  or  less,  so  far  it  follows  force. 
And  thus  did  these,  when  they  had  power  to  seek 
The  hallow'd  place  again.     In  them,  had  will 
Been  perfect,  such  as  once  upon  the  bars 
Held  Laurence'  firm,  or  wrought  in  Sccnvola* 
To  his  own  hand  remorseless  ;  to  the  path,      [back. 
Whence  they  were  drawn,  their  stops  had  hasten'd 
When  liberty  retum'd :  but  in  too  few. 
Resolve,  so  steadfast,  dwells.     And  by  these  words 
If  duly  weigh'd,  that  argument  is  void, 
Which  oft  might  have  perplex'd  thee  still.    But  now 
Another  question  thwarts  thee,  which,  to  solve. 
Might  try  thy  patience  without  better  aid. 
I  have,  no  doubt,  instill'd  into  thy  mind. 
That  blessed  spirit  may  not  lie  ;  since  near 


439 


THE  VISION. 


The  EDiirce  o(  primal  truth  it  dwalla  for  Sye  : 
And  thoD  migbtst  after  of  Ftccorda  leun 
That  Cooataaco  held  aJfectioD  to  the  veil ; 
Sd  that  she  BReniB  to  contradict  me  here. 
Not  seldom,  brother,  it  hath  chanced  for  men 
To  do  what  ihey  had  gladly  left  undone  ; 
Yet,  to  shun  peril,  Ihey  have  done  amias  '■ 
E'en  aa  AlcmBion,'  at  hu  falherV  suit 
Slew  his  own  mother  ;'  BO  made  pitiless. 
Not  to  lose  pity.     On  this  pomt  bethink  thee. 
That  force  and  will  are  blended  in  such  wise 


make  the  ofienc 

e  excusable. 

the  wrong 
ear  of  wo 

Piecarda  qinko,  and  '. 
K)  that  botli  hi 


Thus 

Ofth  , 

Such  wue  the  Sow  of  tlial  pure  rill,  that  wellv 
From  fartti  the  fountaJu  of  all  truth  ;  and  saoh  ' 
The  T«Bt,  that  to  my  wandering  llioaghts  I  foui 

"  O  thou,  of  primal  love  the  prime  delicti 
Uoddess  !''  I  Btraighl  replied,  "  whose  lively  wo 
Still  Bhed  new  heat  and  vigor  through  my  bouI;,, 
Afloclion  fails  me  to  requite  thy  grace 
With  equal  sum  of  gratitude ;  be  his 
To  recompense,  who  aeeH  and  can  reward  ll; 
Well  I  discern,  thnt  by  that  truth'  aloae 
Enlighten'd,  beyond  which  no  truth  may  le 
Our  mrnd  can  satisfy  her  thirst  to  know : 
lliereia  she  resteth,  e'en  as  in  his  lair 
The  wild  beast,  soon  as  ehe  hath  reach'd  tliattM 
And  she  hath  power  lo  reach  it ;  ebie  desire 
Were  given  to  no  ead.     And  thence  doth  doubt 
Spring,  like  a  shoot,  amnnd  the  stock  of  truth  ; 
And  it  is  nature  which,  from  height  to  hei^t. 
On  lo  the  summit  prompts  as.     This  invil    - 


-  J 

i 
I 


180-138.  PARADISE,  Canto  V.  423 

This  doth  aaBoie  me,  Lady !  reverently 

To  ask  thee  of  another  truth,  that  yet 

Is  dark  to  me.     I  fain  would  know,  if  man 

By  other  works  well  done  may  so  supply 

The  failure  of  hb  vows,  that  in  your  scale 

They  lack  not  weight."    I  spake  ;  and  on  mo  straight 

Beatrice  look'd,  with  eyes  that  sliot  forth  sparks 

Of  love  celestial,  in  such  copious  stream. 

That,  virtue  sinking  in  mo  overpowor'd, 

I  tum'd ;  and  downward  bent,  confused,  my  sight. 


CANTO   V. 


ARGUMENT. 

The  question  proposed  in  the  last  Canto  is  answered.    Dante 
ascends  wjth  Beatrice  to  the  planet  Mercury,  which  is  the  > 

second  heaven ;  and  here  he  finds  a  multitude  of  spirits, 
one  of  whom  offers  to  satisfy  him  of  any  thing  ho  may  de- 
sire to  know  from  them.  ; 

"  If  beyond  earthly  wont,*  the  flame  of  love  | 

Illume  me,  so  that  I  o'ercomo  thy  power 
Of  vision,  marvel  not :  but  Icam  the  cause 
In  that  perfection  of  the  sight,  which,  soon 
As  apprehending,  hasteneth  on  to  rcacli 
The  good  it  apprehends.     I  well  discern, 
How  in  thine  intellect  already  shines 
The  light  eternal,  which  to  view  alone 
Ne'er  fails  to  kindle  love  ;  and  if  aught  else 
Your  love  seduces,  'tis  but  that  it  shows 
Some  ill-mark'd  vestige  of  that  primal  beam. 

"  This  would'st  thou  know  :  if  failure  of  the  vow 
By  other  service  may  be  so  supplied. 
As  from  self-question  to  assure  the  soul." 

Thus  she  her  words,  not  heedless  of  my  wish. 
Began ;  and  thus,  as  one  who  breaks  not  off 
Discourse,  continued  in  her  saintly  strain. 
"  Supreme  of  gifts,'*  which  God,  creating,  gave 


1  If  beyond  earthly  wont.]  Dante  having  been  unable  to  sus- 
tain the  splendor  of  Beatrice,  as  we  have  seen  at  the  end  of 
the  last  Canto,  she  tells  him  to  attribute  her  increase  of  bright- 
ness to  the  place  in  which  they  were. 

•  Supreme  of  gifts.]  So  in  the  De  Monarchift,  lib.  i.  p.  107 
and  106.  "  Si  ergo  judicium  moveat,"  &c.  "  If  then  the 
judgment  altogether  move  the  appetite,  and  is  in  no  wise 
prevented  by  it,  it  is  free.  But  if  the  judgment  be  moved  by 
the  appetite  in  any  way  preventing  it,  it  cannot  be  free:  be- 
cause it  acts  not  of  itself,  hut  is  led  captive  by  anolYLei.   An.^ 


IMB. 


L 


434  TUE  VISIOJi. 

Of  hia  free  bouiily,  aign  raort  evident 
Of  goodneoB,  and  in  hia  accouut  moat  prized, 
Waa  liberty  of  will ;  the  boon,  whcrowilh 
All  intellectual  croaturea,  und  them  sole, 
He  hath  etidow'd.     HoncM)  now  Ihou  mnyst  i 
Of  what  high  worth  Ihe  tow,  which  bo  is  frai 
That  when  man  offers,  God  well  pleased  aqc 
For  in  the  compact  between  God  and  liini, 
Thia  treoBore,  such  as  I  describe  it  la  thee, 
He  makea  the  victim ;  and  of  his  own  act. 
What  compeasation  therefore  may  ha  find  ? 
If  that,  whereof  than  hast  oblalioa  made, 
By  omng  well  thou  tlunk'st  1o  consecrate, 
Thou  wouldBt  of  Ihoft'  da  charitable  deed. 
Thus  I  reaolve  thee  of  the  greater  point. 

'■  But  forasrauch  aa  holy  church,  herein 
Diepetuiiig,  aeema  to  coutradict  the  truth 
I  have  discovei'd  to  (liee,  yet  behooves 
Thou  rest  a  little  longer  at  Ihe  buutd, 
Ere  the  crude  aliment  which  thou  hast  ta'eu, 
Digoaled  filly,  to  nutrition  turn. 
Open  thy  mind  to  what  I  now  unfold  : 
And  give  it  inward  keeping.     Knowledge  con 
or  learning  well  retain'd,  imfruitful  else. 

"  This  sncriGce,  in  eaaence,  of  two  Ihing^ 
Cunsistoth :  one  is  that,  whereof  'tia  made ; 
The  covenant,  the  other.     For  the  laat, 
It  ne'er  is  canceli'd,  itnot  tept;  and  hence 
1  apake.  erewhile,  so  strictly  of  itu  force. 
For  this  it  wusenjohi'd  the  Israelites,' 


D  |i1k1b.  ilial  Ibis  liber 


>1  of  lisrt.l    "  LiMI  fur  de  fUrtn,"  . 

'■  -  123.    -AUhouBh  >  Ihiorshonl „. 

Men  irtvG  help  u  a  poor  miui,  ysi  la  A 


40-86.  PARADISE,  Canto  V.  425  :| 

Though  leave  were  given  them,  as  thou  know'st,  to  . : 

The  ofl^ring,  still  to  ofier.  The  other  part,     [change 

The  matter  and  the  substance  of  the  vow,  1 1 

May  well  be  such,  as  that,  without  ofllencc. 

It  may  for  other  substance  bo  exchanged. 

But,  at  his  own  discretion,  none  may  shift 

The  burden  on  his  shoulders ;  uiu^leased 

By  either  key,'  the  yellow  and  the  white. 

Nor  deem  of  any  change,  as  less  than  vain. 

If  the  last  bond'  bo  not  within  the  new 

Included,  as  the  quatre  in  the  six. 

No  satisfaction  therefore  can  be  paid 

For  what  so  precious  in  the  balance  weighs, 

Tliat  all  in  counterpoise  must  kick  the  l^ain. 

Take  then  no  vow  at  random :  ta'en,  with  faith 

Preserve  it ;  yet  not  bent,  as  Jcphthah  once,  j. 

Blindly  to  execute  a  rasli  resolve,  || 

Wliom  better  it  had  suited  to  exclaim, 

*  I  have  done  ill,'  than  to  redeem  his  pledge 

By  doing  worse  :  or,  not  unlike  to  him 

In  folly,  that  great  leader  of  tlie  Greeks  ; 

Whence,  on  the  altar,  Iphigenia  moum*d  j 

Her  virgin  beauty,  and  hath  since  made  mourn 

Both  wise  and  simple,  even  all,  who  hear  ■. 

Of  so  fell  sacrifice.     Be  ye  more  staid, 

O  Christians !  not,  like  feather,  by  each  wind  ■  1 

Removeable ;  nor  think  to  cleanse  yourselves  , , 

In  every  water.     Either  testament,  1 1 

The  old  and  new,  is  yours :  and  for  your  guide,  I 

The  shepherd  of  the  church.     Let  this  suffice 

To  save  you.     When  by  evil  lust  enticed. 

Remember  ye  be  men,  not  senseless  beasts ; 

Nor  let  the  Jew,  who  dwclleth  in  your  streets, 

Hold  you  in  mockery.     Bo  not,  as  the  lamb, 

That,  fickle  wanton,  leaves  its  mother's  milk. 

To  dally  with  itself  in  idle  play." 

Such  were  the  words  that  Beatrice  spake : 
These  ended,  to  that  region,'  where  the  world 


I 


1  Either  kqf.]    Purgatory,  Canto  ix.  108. 

*  Jfthe  last  bond.]  If  the  thing  substituted  be  not  ikr  mora 
precious  than  that  which  is  released. 

*  That  region.]  As  some  explain  it,  the  east:  according 
to  others,  the  equinoctial  line.  Lombardl  supposes  it  to 
mean  that  she  looked  upwards.  Monti,  in  his  Proposta, 
(Vol.  3,  pt«  2,  p.  Ixxix.  Milan,  1826,)  has  adduced  a  passage 
nrom  our  author's  Convito,  which  fixes  the  sense.  Dico  an* 
cora,  che  quanto  11  Cielo  d  piii  prosso  al  cerchlo  equatare, 
tanto  ^  piu  mobile  per  comparazione  all!  suoi ',  ^TOccYiib  YuB^  \«. 


Lpapath  unto 


426  THE  visio,\.  m-m. 

la  liveliest,  full  nf  fond  desire  she  turn'd. 

Tliough  mainly  prompt  new  question  to  propose, 
Her  silenco  and  changed  look  did  keep  me  dumb. 
Aud  OB  the  arrow,  ere  Ihe  cord  is  still, 
1  mark ;  so  on  we  sped 
realm.    There  I  beheld 
The  dame,  bo  jovoiiH,  culer,  that  the  orb 
Grew  brighter  nt  her  smites ;  aud,  if  the  star 
Were  moved  to  g-ladnesB,  what  then  was  my  ebeer, 
Whom  nature  hath  made  apt  for  every  change '. 

As  in  a  quiet  and  cIgot  lake  the  Geb, 
If  aught  approach  tbem  from  'withoat,  do  draw 
Towards  it,  deeming  it  their  food  ;  so  drew 
Full  more  than  thouBand  eplendors  towards  ub  ; 
Aud  in  each  one  was  beard :  '*  Lo  !  one  arrived 
To  multiply  our  loves  '."  aiid  as  each  came, 
Tile  shadow,  Btreamiug  forth  etFulgence  uew, 
Wiliiesa'd  augmented  joy.    Here,  Reader!  think, 
If  tliou  didst  iniHe  the  sequel  of  my  ittle. 
To  know  the  rest  how  aorely  thou  wouldst  crave; 
And  thou  shalt  see  what  vehement  desir 
Possess'd  me,  soon  as  Iheae  had  met  my 
I'o  know  their  state.     "  O  bom  in  happy  hour  1 
Thon,  to  whom  grace  vouchsafes,  or  ere  "' 
Of  HeBbly  warfare,  tn  behold  the  (broaes 
or  that  eternal  triumph  ;  know,  lo  us 
Tbe  light  commimicated,  which  Ibmngh  heaTMi  ' 
"         ■  ■  ■       .  ■         ■      Therefore,  if  aught 

t  borrow  for  thine  aid. 


Tliou  01 


TliuBofthosi 
And  Bealtice  nert  :  "  Say  on  ;  and  ttxist 
As  uuto  gods." — "  How  iu  the  light  Bupmna 
Thou  harbor'st,  and  from  thence  the  virtue  bn 
That,  sparkling  in  tliine  eyes,  denotes  thy  joy, 
I  mark :  but,  who  thon  art,  am  still  tu  see* 
Or  wherefore,  worthy  spirit !  for  thy  lot 
This  sphere'  assign'd,  that  oft  from  mortal  k 
la  vcii'd  by  other's  beams."     I  said  ;  and  tnni'dl 
Toward  the  lustre,  that  with  greeting  kind 
Ercwhilc  had  hsil'd  me.     Forthwith,  brighter 
Than  eral,  ii  wax'd;  and,  as  himself  Ihe  sun 


.  _     "^  ^  PARADISE,  Canto  VI.  427 

:^\«^      "through  exceae  of  light,  when  his  waim  gate' 
^Vw  ^  ^^J*  til©  mantle  of  thick  vapors  prey'd  ; 
^J^  "^^^^^  its  proper  ray  the  saintly  shape 

^\\^  *  through  increase  of  gladness,  thns  conceard  ; 

^'^  ^»  shrouded  so  in  splendor,  answer'd  me, 
*^  as  the  tenor  of  my  song  declares. 


CANTO    VI. 

ARGUMENT. 

^e  spirit,  who  had  offered  to  satisfy  the  inquiries  of  Dante, 
declares  himself  to  be  the  Eini)crnr  Justinian ;  and  after 
xpeaking  of  his  own  actions,  recounts  the  victories,  be- 
fore him,  obtained  under  the  Roman  Englc.  lie  then 
informs  our  Poet  that  the  soul  of  Romeo  the  pilgrim  is  in 
the  same  star. 

"  After  that  Constantine  the  eagle  tum'd" 
Against  the  motions  of  the  heaven,  that  roll'd 
Consenting  with  its  course,  when  he  of  yore, 
Lavinia's  spouse,  was  leader  of  the  flight ; 
A  hundred  years  twice  told  and  more,*  his  seat 
At  Europe's  extreme  point,*  the  bird  of  Jove 
Held,  near  the  mountains,  whence  he  issued  first ; 
There  under  shadow  of  his  sacred  plumes 
Swaying  the  world,  till  tlirough  successive  hands 
To  mine  he  came  devolved.     Ccpsar  I  was ; 
And  am  Justinian  ;  destined  by  the  will 
Of  that  prime  love,  whose  influence  I  feel. 
From  vain  excess  to  clear  the  incumber'd  laws.* 


1  fVhen  his  toarm  gaze.]  When  the  sun  has  dried  up  the 
vapors  that  shaded  his  l>rightness. 

a  ^fter  that  Conntantine  the  eagle  turn'd.]  Constantine,  in 
transferring  the  scat  of  empire  from  Rome  to  Byzantium, 
carried  the  eagle,  the  Imperial  ensign,  from  the  west  to  the 
east.  iEneas,  on  the  contrar>',  had,  with  Iwtter  augury, 
moved  ahmg  with  the  sun's  course,  wlien  he  passed  from 
Troy  to  Italy. 

8  A  hundred  years  twice  told  and  more.]  The  Emperor  Con- 
stantine entered  Byzantium  in  324  ;  and  Justinian  began  his 
reign  in  527. 

4  At  Europe's  extreme  point]  Constantinople  being  situ- 
ated at  the  extreme  of  Europe,  and  on  the  borders  of  Asia, 
near  those  mountains  in  the  neighborhood  of  Troy,  from 
whence  the  first  founders  of  Rome  had  emigrated. 

•  To  clear  the  incumber'd  laws.]  The  code  of  laws  was 
abridged  and  reformed  by  Justinian. 

Giustinlano  son  io,  disse  il  primajo, 
Che  M  troppo  e  '1  van  secai  for  delle  leggi, 
Ora  soggette  ail'  arme  e  al  denajo. 

Frezzi,  II  Quadrir.,  lib.  iv.  cap.  13. 


I 
I 


I 


43S 


THE  VISION, 


Or  ere  that  work  cngsged  me,  I  di4  hold 

In  Chrial  one  nature  ouly  ;'  with  such  failh 

Contented.     But  (ho  bleeBod  Agapete," 

Who  WOB  chief  ahephetd,  he  with  warning  tihco 

To  Ihe  true  faith  lecail'd  me.    I  believed 

His  words :  and  what  he  taught,  now  plainly  see, 

As  thoii  in  every  contmdiclion  eecst 

The  true  and  falee  opposed,     Soon  as  my  feel 

Were  to  the  cliurch  reclaim'd,  to  my  great  task, 

By  inBpiralion  of  God'B  grace  impell'd, 

I  gave  me  wholly  ;  aad  cooeign'd  mine  arms 

To  Belisariua,  with  whom  heavpn's  light  hand 

Was  linked  in  such  coDJoiDtmont,  ^twos  a  ^gn 

That  I  Bhould  rest.     To  thy  first  question  thui 

I  shape  mine  answer,  which  were  ended  here, 

But  that  its  tendency  doth  prompt  perforce 

To  uiuie  addition  ;  that  thou  well  mayat  mark, 

What  reawu  on  eaoli  side  they  hiive  to  plead, 

By  whom  that  holiest  banner  is  withEtood. 

Botli  wlio  pretend  its  power*  and  who  oppose.' 

"  Beginning  from  that  hour,  when  Pnllsa  died' 
To  give  it  rule,  behold  the  valorous  deeds 
Have  made  it  worthy  reverence.     Not  unknown' 
To  thi^e,  how  for  three  hundred  yeorg  and  mom 


Ildwi 


n  Alba 


uptc 


fell  111 


B  ^ffttpete-i  "  Agapfltna,  Bjghap  of  Ronie,  wtiose  Bchfdii 
tegln,  nddrmaefl  Iii  the  E^Dpemr  JuUniso.  pracnivd  hiia  t 
rlDGO  nmone  the  wlwil  hnd  most  JodlcLoufl  wjlion  of  tbii 
enuity-"    Ibid-,  cent.  vl.  p.  U.  cap.  U.  $  0.    Compaio  Failo 


the  Hcofld  tiDnfc  of  Ills  tmliie  De 
eedeKYon  to  pmvii  timt  Ihe  Roman 
ivem  the  wujld,  he  rsftnt  to  Ibek 

*'  he  rtffinns,  "  nlf  bl  tnly  SMf.  m 


I 


3»n56.  PARADISE,  Canto  VI.  429 

Where,  for  its  sake,  were  met  the  rival  three  ;' 
Nor  aij^ht  unknown  to  thee,  which  it  achieved 
Down^rom  the  Sabineu  wrong  to  Liicrece'  wo ; 
With  its  seven  kings  conquering  the  nations  round  j 
Nor  all  it  wrought,  by  Roman  worttiieH  liorne 
'Gainst  Brennus  and  the  Kpirot  prince,'  and  hosts 
Of  single  chiefs,  or  states  in  league  combined 
Of  social  warfare:  hence,  Torquatus  Ktern, 
And  Quintius'*  named  of  his  n<'glecte(l  locks. 
The  Decii,  and  the  Fabii  hence  acquired 
Their  fame,  which  1  with  duteous  zeal  embalm.^ 
By  it  the  pride  of  Arab  hordes"  was  quell'd. 
When  they,  led  on  by  Hannibal,  o'erpuss'd 
The  Alpine  rocks,  whence  glide  thy  currents,  Po! 
Beneath  its  guidance,  in  their  prime  of  days 
Scipio  and  Pompey  triumphed  ;  and  that  hill,' 
Under  whose  summit^  thou  didst  see  the  light, 
Rued  its  stem  bearing.     After,  near  the  hour,' 


1  The  rival  three.]    The  Horntii  nnd  Curiatii. 

a  Doien.'\  "  From  the  rape  ofllie  Sabine  women  to  the  vio- 
lation of  Lucrctiii." 

8  The  Epirot  prince.]    King  Pyrrhus. 

*  Quintius.]    Quintius  Cincinnatus. 

£  Cincinnato  dall*  inculta  chionia.  Petrarca. 

Compare  l>c  Monarchiik,  lib.  ii.  p.  121,  &c.  "  Itaqiic,  inqnit, 
et  majores  nustri,"  &c. 

*  Embalm.]  The  word  in  the  original  is  "  mirro,"  which 
some  think  is  put  for  "  miro,"  "  I  behold  or  regard ;"  and  oth- 
ers under:$tand,  as  I  have  rendered  it. 

«  ^rab  hordes.]  The  Arabians  seem  to  be  put  for  the  bar- 
barians in  general.  Jjombardi's  comment  is,  thiit  as  the 
Arabs  are  an  Asiatic  people,  and  it  is  not  recorded  that  Han- 
nibal had  any  other  troops  except  liis  own  countrymen  the 
Carthaginians,  who  were  Africans,  we  must  undersUind  that 
Dante  denominates  that  people,  Anibs,  on  account  of  their 
origin.  "  Ab  Ifrico  Arabia;  felicis  rege,  qui  omnium  primus 
hanc  tcrram  (Africam)  incoluissc  fertur,"  &c.  I^eo  Jlfricanus. 
JifriccB  Description  lib.  i.  cap.  i. 

'  That  hi//.]  The  city  of  Fesula?,  which  was  sacked  by  the 
Romans  after  the  defeat  of  Catiline. 

8  Under  whose  sumrnit.]  "  At  the  foot  of  which  is  situated 
Florence,  thy  birthplace." 

"  ^ear  the  hour.]  Near  the  time  of  our  Saviour's  birth. 
"The  immeasurable  goodness  of  the  Deity  being  willing 
again  to  conform  to  itself  the  human  creature,  which  by 
transgression  of  the  first  mfin  had  from  (Jod  <le\>arted,  and 
fallen  from  his  likeness,  it  was  determined  in  that  most  high 
and  closest  consistory  of  the  Codhead,  the  Trinity,  that  the 
Son  of  God  should  descend  upon  earth  to  make  this  agree- 
ment. And  because  it  was  behovcful,  that  at  tiis  coming, 
the  world,  not  only  tho  heaven  but  the  earth,  B\iou\d  \)e  va 


i; 

f 

i 


'I 


430  TIIE  VISION.  57-«9. 

When  heaven  was  minded  thai  o'er  all  the  world 

His  own  litep  calm  should  brood,  to  Csaar's  l)BDd 

Did  Rome  conaign  it ;  and  wliat  Ihea  it  wrought' 

FcoiD  Var  unto  the  Rhine,  eaw  Iwre's  Sood, 

Saw  lioire  and  Seine,  and  every  viUe,  that  tills 

The  tonent  Rhone.     What  after  that  it  wrought. 

When  Irom  Ravenna  it  came  forth,  and  leap'd 

The  Kubicon,  wag  of  bo  bold  a  flight, 

TliHl  tongue  nor  pen  may  follow  it    Towards  Bpaio 

It  wheel'd  its  hands,  then  toward  Dyrrachium  itnotOi 

Aud  on  Pbanalm,  with  eo  fierce  a  plunge. 

E'en  the  warm  Nile  was  conscious  to  llie  pang ; 

Its  native  Blmrea  Antajidroa,  and  the  streama 

OrSimoia  revieiled,  and  there 

Wliere  Hector  liea  ;  then  iU  for  Ptolemy 

His  pennons  ahook  again ;  lightning  theuce  fall 

On  Juba;  and  the  neit,  upon  your  west. 

At  Bomid  of  the  Fompeian  trump,  retnm'd. 

"  What  following,  and  in  its  neit  bearer'e  E"P*i' 
It  wrought,  is  UDW  by  CassiuB  and  Brutus 
Bork'd  of'  in  bell ;  and  by  Perugia's  Bona, 
And  Modeiia's,  was  mourn'd.     Uence  wecpeth  HiU 
Sad  Cleopatra,  who,  pursued  by  it, 
Took  from  the  adder  black  and  Budden  death. 
With  him  it  ran  e'en  to  the  Red  Sea  coast ; 
With  him  composed  liie  world  la  such  a  peace, 
That  of  his  temple  Janua  harr'd  the  door. 

"  But  all  the  mighty  standard  yet  had  wroDght, 
Aud  was  appomted  to  perform  thereafter, 
Throughout  the  mortal  kmgdom  which  it  Bway'd, 
Palls  iu  appearance  dwindled  and  obscured. 
If  one  with  steady  eye  and  perfect  thought 
On  the  tliird  Cfeaar*  look  ;  for  to  hig  bauds. 


peuplB  aad  Ibat  cltjr  for  the  Bccitii 
t  glorlDni  BoniB."  Qmn.'lD.  p.  13 
-epealed  at  the  cohcIobLod  of  (be  Or 

-    i-DeMoBi     


I   metliaiilicrmgla.]    [nlho  (bllowiiu 

d  Tor  the  altu^lana  kn  the  greater  pajl  of  Lhlfl  fipeedkKff; 
Ean'i,  I  mnsl  refer  Dif  reader  to  Lbs  hlHtoiy  ofltaaM- 
•  Iniunciil^arir't  e"P'-]    With  Aneo 
I  Borfd  (!/■.)         n.wM'lAajc™".     Bap/^oelim.  EltcO*. 
I  Ticliird  Caur.i    Tile  eagle  Id  Iho  haiil  ofTlbeiliB,! 


r'jW 


iO-107.             PARADISE,  CiNTO  VI.                  431 

Tho  living  Justice,  in  wliom  breath  I  move. 

To  emsoulB  the  yengcance  of  its  wrath.                                          ' 

■'  Hoar  now,  iLnd  wonder  at.  what  nan  I  tell. 

After  Willi  Tilua  it  was  sent  lo  wreak 

Vengeanco  for  yengeanco'  of  Iho  ancient  ain. 

And.  when  the  Lombard  tooth,  with  fang  impute, 

Did  gore  the  bomro  of  the  holy  ehuroh, 

Sped  to  her  Tcuue.    Judge  then  for  tbyself 

or  tbose,  wbom  I  erewhile  accoaed  to  thee. 

What  they  are,  and  how  grieyona  their  oSending, 

Who  are  the  cause  of  at]  yovn'  ilte.     The  one' 

Against  the  nniyersal  enagn  rears 

Tbe  yeUow  UUes;'  and  with  partial  aim, 

That,  to  himself,  the  other"  arrogales : 

So  that  'tis  hard  to  see  who  raoet  offends. 

cmclflUunoroDrlAcd.    TbiaKLointnrdi-isiiilhnBlloii ;  xad 

Pbjb.  Csnlo  Hill.  SO. 

'  Faurmna  fur  mramrt.']    Thl>  will  he  nrterWHtilii  bi- 
pblnedliv  <l>o  Poe<  IdioHtf.    See  oeil  Cidio,  r.  4T,  sad  now. 

orJuianlim  wu  lonti  prior  »  that  of  Ch»rlein»Ln  ^  liul  the 

spUll  of  Ihe  limier  emperor  la  reprewnled.  bnih  Jd  ihls  In- 

■luu»  nnd  to  whni  follDWi.  a<  caosclons  of  thu  events  thai 

hsduken  place  after  hli  own  Umc. 

1  im  mu.]    Tbe  Goelph  parCj-. 

•  -nt  vol'w  />Vi«.]    The  Freoch  em^gn. 

'■nUtOur.i    Tho  GhibelU OB  party. 

•  naUMIinii.'l    "Aolhora  dllTer  much  as  lo  the  bcfin- 

nlni  or  Ihese  lacUon^  and  the  oriela  of  the  namei  by  which 

gj^y  Bi  the  tioie  of  the  Emperor  Frslerl^  1.  In  hK  wel^ 

net    OUien  mime  Iheni  more  ancLenl,  dailog  ihem  from                  , 
ttw  rtf(n  of  the  Emperor  Henry  IV.  who  died  fn  IISS.    But 
11b  moit  ccunmoii  epSnlon  Im  IhBt  Ihev  irou  ia  the  centeiw 
betweea  the  Emperor  Fisderick  U.  onii  Pope  arstory  IS.,  nod                  , 

tbat  mill  EmpBror,  winhlng  lo  ascertain  who  wore  bis  own                  ' 

Mlbeniou.  and  who  tho«,  of  the  P..pB.  cnuied  the  former  lo 

Ihal of  Ooelphi.    III.  more  pmbahle,  h-.ivf.er,  ihm  the  Kir- 

nmaworesllhlitinioBllherrenewKil,  iir.liinwilni.irewiri,-. 

lY.Koa  Ibal  Uwlr  origin  wai  ef  »n  eniliiT  d<ite.  "liiire  11  it 

133 


THE  VISION. 


Beneath  auother  Btandnrd:  JJl  u  this 

Follow'd  of  him,  who  savers  it  and  jiietiee; 

And    M    not    witli   bis  Guplphs   tlio    uew-cmvn'i 

AssBil  it:  hut  those  (ulons  holdjn  dread,       [CbarlM 

Whicli  fmm  a  lion  of  more  lolly  port 

Have  rent  llio  casing.     Many  a  liniB  ere  now 

The  BOiis  liBve  for  tlio  wro'a  [ranagreSBion  wall'd : 

Nor  1ft  him  trust  the  fond  belief,  that  boaTcn 

Will  tmck  its  annor  for  hia  lilied  abield. 

"  This  little  Mai  h  fumish'd  with  good  spirits. 
Whose  mortal  lives  were  busied  to  that  end, 
Thai  honor  and  renown  might  wut  on  them  : 
And,  when  desin-a"  thus  err  in  their  intention. 
True  InvB  must  needs  ascend  with  slacker  beam. 
But  it  is  part  of  oul  delight,  to  measuiB 

(BntlenHn  In  Florence,  (leo  Pu.,  CnnU  ivl.  v.  ISB.)  Ibe  Bu 


brelhors,  who  were  Gerimuij,  Ih      ae  caUed  Gu    ph  a 
nihsr  Gibel,  who  being  Ibe  paniiuis  of  wo  powe  n 
in  Plsuii,ltie  PuciaUcliI,  ondlheCan  s  U  i1    h 

IngbeeDBjventolbeillHORUDtlutl  d       Ob 
piulHibllltr.  derive  IhsDi  &0O  Gu    ph  oiGn 

peruc  Cenrad  Ihe  Thjnl,  wu  ban     a  coowq 

A- D.  use.    Olhen  aulg'n  lo  111  lu  an    rigi  i 


Gblbeilides.  Dial  prince  being  den  nd  d  by  h 

Barlolo,  huTCBVcr,  In  bli  (mcuie  de     a    pb         o 

■sges  in  Scclulare.    'Blcul  Glbellns  nlerpt  a 

tndlnka,  km  Oibellinl  appellanlnr  confidenle  d   e 

ita  Ganlphi  iDIPTpretajitur  confid  nlcs        an    m  bu    wt  jm. 


1S3-136.  PARADISE,  Cahto  VI.  433 

Our  wag™  with  the  merit ;  and  admire 

Tlio  cloBo  proportion.     Hence  doth  hosvenly  juilica 

Temper  so  ei-enly  otFeclion  in  na, 

II  ne'er  can  waqi  to  any  wrongfulness. 
Ol'diveraa  Toicea  ia  aweet  rauaic  made: 
Sc  in  oor  life  the  different  dcgreeg 
Render  aweet  harmony  amotig  theae  wheela 

"  Within  the  pearl,  that  now  enoloselh  ufl, 
Shines  Romeo'a  light,'  whoae  goodly  deed  and  fair 
Mot  ill  acceptance.     But  the  Proven^alB, 
That  were  his  foea,  have  Utile  cause  for  mirth. 

III  ahapea  that  man  his  course,  who  makee  hlx  wrong 
Otother'a  worth.  Four  danghtcrB"  were  there  horn 
To  Raymond  Beienger  ;^  and  every  one 

meeiulnly.  Tbe  nnme  of  Konieo  'Ignllied.  ai  we  liave  Ken 
is  the  pole  Ptugn  Canlo  tlxlW.  v.  78.  ono  who  wenl  on  B  pLI- 

na  ihi>  MMerdon  chiefly  on  the  fuel  of  a  wrinln  Roidleu  de 

Isi  Islt  luge  posMnloni  behind  him,  u  sppean  by  his  wUI 
pteieiveil  in  the  aichlvss  of  Ihe  binhopiie  of  Venice.  Thnt 
Ihfly  an  right  as  (o  ihe  Ouna  at  leuc,  wonlil  appeu  ftom 
thfl  fblLowtiu  mnrglmtl  Bote  on  the  Uonte  Ga«iDa  US.    Bo- 

oUm  utminUiTnlDila  Rnyiqnndl  BelLngej]  ComlUa  de  F/dv1d- 

■0  BCHT  Ihv  time,  Bheuld  be  mlBinforjoed  in  ait  occarrence  ur 
BDcb  nolodety-  Accosdiog  to  titfiia.  alter  be  had  lung  been 
■  ftllhnil  ileward  to  Saymonil.  when  an  nriQnol  hbi  n- 
onjfedflwn  bloiof  Ihe  revcddea  which  hohsd  cntefltlly  hm- 
fudgd,  ud  hia  muiei  u  InvUhly  disbonsd.  "  ho  demanded 
Oe  llnls  omle,  Ihs  glid;  and  Iho  icrlp,  wilh  which  he  tiif 
Bm  enlend  into  Ihe  counl's  service,  a  ilmnger  pllphn  thiol 


Fiasce;  Elanaor,  lbs  neii,  u>  Henry  III.  oTEDelaiMl;  jtea- 
cha.  the  Ihiid.  id  Richard,  Henry's  biolher.  and  IClnR  Dme 
BDdWM:  and  ihe  yuungeit.  Bcauii,  lo  Cfanrlcs  I.,  Klpiof 

■  Xunuiid  BiTVagtr.}  ThU  pilDce,  the  lu(  of  Ibe  houne 
of  Bareelgna.  who  wag  Count  of  Provence,  died  in  I9IS.  He 
la  la  Uw  lilt  of  ProvsncBl  pneU.    Bee  Millol,  HIat.  Lilt,  dea 


434  THE  VISION.  137-lM. 

BecBiTiQ  a  queen :  snd  this  foi  him  did  Romea, 
Though  of  mean  alate  and  from  a  Toreign  lajid. 
Yet  envious  tongues  incited  biin  to  nek 
A  reckoning  of  that  just  one,  who  retum'd 
Twelve  fold  to  him  for  ten.     Aged  and  poor 
He  parted  ttience  :  and  if  [he  world  did  know 
The  heart  ho  had,  begging  his  life  by  moreels, 
'TwouJd  deem  the  piaiae  it  yields  him,  scantly  dealt," 


CANTO    VII. 

ARGUMENT. 


"HoaANN;t>  Sanctua  Dens  Sabaoth 
Superillustrana  claritato  tua. 
Felices  ignea  honun  mnlnliolh." 
Thuii  chanling  raw  I  turn  that  substanco  bright,' 
With  fourFold  lustre  la  its  orb  again, 
Revolving;  and  the  rest,  tmto  their  dance. 
With  it,  moved  also ;  andi  like  swiftest  sparks, 
In  sudden  distance  from  my  sight  were  veii'd.     [me, 

Me  doubt  posaesH'd !  and  "  Speak,"  it  whisper'd 
"Speak,  speak  unlo  thy  lady;  that  she  quench 
Thy  thirat  with  drops  of  sweolness."     Yet  blank  awe. 
Which  lords  it  o'er  me,  even  at  the  sound 
Of  Beatrice's  name,  did  bow  me  dowa 
As  one  in  stumber  held.     Not  long  that  mood 

As  miglit  have  made  one  blest  amid  the  flames,* 

"  Thou  in  thy  thought  art  pondering  (as  1  deem, 
And  what  I  deem  is  truth]  hov  just  revenge 
Could  be  with  justice  punisb'd:  from  which  doubt 
I  Boon  will  free  the« ;  so  thou  mark  my  words ; 
Fi^  they  of  weighty  matter  shall  posaesa  thee. 

i^MBniui.]    ■' Hosiann  hi4y  God  of  Sab        __ 

UnBdomi." 
*  Thar  tuiauncf  iritU.}    Joallnisn. 
■  J.  wigu  *i,Ki  M^i  »■>  «ul  tvM  l»e  jlawM-l    So  Bl 


w 


^ 


ll 


...v 


«      . ,. 


'.■;• 


▼engea  on  tne  Jew>  oy  uw  deftrncoon  oi  aecuwuom. 


\ 


*^.. 


Il 


S»-59.  PARADISE,  Canto  VII.  435 

Through  sufibring  not  a  curb  upon  the  power 

That  will'd  in  him,  to  his  own  profiting, 

That  man,  who  was  unborn,^  coudeinn'd  himielf ; 

And,  in  liimself,  all,  who  since  him  have  lived. 

His  o£&pring:  whence,  below,  the  human  kind  j' 

Lay  sick  in  grievous  error  many  an  age ; 

Until  it  pleased  the  Word  of  God  to  come 

Among  them  down,  to  liis  own  person  joining 

The  nature  from  its  Maker  far  estranged. 

By  the  mere  act  of  his  eternal  love. 

Contemplate  hero  the  wonder  I  unfold. 

The  nature  with  its  Maker  thus  conjoined. 

Created  first  was  blameless,  pure,  and  good  ; 

But,  through  itself  alone,  was  driven  forth 

From  Paradise,  because  it  had  eschewed 

The  way  of  truth  and  life,  to  evil  tum*d. 

NeVr  then  was  pi'uaity  so  just  as  that 

Inflicted  by  the.  cross,  if  thou  regard 

The  nut  lire  in  assumption  doom'd;  ne'er  wrong 

So  great,  iu  reference  to  him,  who  took 

Such  nature  on  him,  and  endured  the  doom. 

So  different  effects^  flow'd  from  one  act : 

For  by  one  death  God  and  the  Jews  were  pleased ; 

And  heaven  was  oj>enM,  though  the  earth  did  quake. 

Count  it  not  hard  henceforth,  when  thou  dost  hear 

That  a  just  vengeance'  was,  by  righteous  court, 

Justly  revenged.     But  yet  I  see  thy  mind. 

By  thought  on  thought  arising,  sore  perplexed ; 

And,  with  how  vehement  desire,  it  asks 

Solution  of  the  maze.     What  I  have  heard, 

Is  plain,  thou  sayst :  but  wherefore  God  this  way  i 

For  our  redemption  chose,  eludes  my  search.  ' 

"  Brother !  no  eye  of  man  not  perfected. 
Nor  fully  ripen'd  hi  the  flame  of  love, 
May  fathom  this  decree.     It  is  a  mark. 
In  sooth,  much  aim'd  at,  and  but  little  kenn'd : 
And  I  will  therefore  show  thee  why  such  way 


1  nat  man,  who  was  unborn.]    Adam.  j 

3  Different  effects.]  The  death  of  Christ  was  pleasing  to 
God,  inasiiuich  HH  it  sntislied  the  divine  justice;  and  to  the 
Jews,  becaate  it  gratified  their  malignity :  and  while  heaven 
opened  for  joy  at  the  rannom  of  man,  the  earth  trembled  j 

through  compassion  for  its  Malcer.  j 

>  j9  juH  vengeance.]  Tho  punishment  of  Christ  by  the 
Jews,  although  Jutt  as  far  as  regarded  the  human  nature  as- 
sumed by  him,  and  so  a  righteous  vengeance  of  sin,  yet  l>eing 
unjust  as  it  regarded  the  divine  nature,  was  itself  justly  re- 
venged on  tho  Jeu's  by  the  destruction  of  Jenuaiem. 


436  THE  VISION. 

Was  worthiest.     Tht  eeleslial  love 
All  Hnvying  in  ila  bountj',  in  itaelf 


as  »nd9  roilli 
>ua  Ihinga  utema!.  What  distill 
llience,  do  end  oT  being  kao' 
seal  imroutahly  impress'd. 


Immediatf 

Bearing  iti 

Whatever  thence  inunediale  fatia, 
Free  wholly,  uneontroUabJe  by  pgwer 
Of  each  thing  new :  by  euch  conformity 
More  grateful  to  ite  author,  whose  bri^l  bi 
Thau^  all  partake  llieir  iduning,  yet  ' 
Are  liveliest,  which  reeemble  him  the 
These  tokens  of  pre-eminence'  on  man 
Lai^ly  beetow'd,  if  any  of  them  fail. 
He  needs  must  forfeit  ius  nobility, 
No  longer  stainless.     Sin  alone  is  that, 
Which  doth  disfrnnchiae  him,  and  nuika  tu 
To  the  chief  good ;  for  thai  its  Ught  in  him 
U  darken'd.     And  to  dignity  thua  lost 

iless,  where  guill  makea  void, 

'0  pay  with  eigiiB)  pain. 
Yoor  nalnre,  whioli  entirely  in  its  seed 
Tiansgrew'd,  from  these  dislinctions  fell,  no  lea 
Than  from  ite  stale  in  Paradiso  ;  nor  means 
Foand  of  recovery  (search  all  methods  ont 
As  strictly  as  thou  may}  save  oue  of  these. 
The  only  fords  were  left  through  whici 
EJtlior,  that  God  had  of  his  courtesy 
Released  him  Dierety ;  or  else,  man  himself 
For  bis  Dwu  folly  by  himself  atoned. 

"  Fix  now  thine  eye,  intently  as  thou  canst, 
On  the  everiastlng  counsel ;  and  explore, 
Instructed  by  my  words,  the  dread  aliys. 


iU  mupemo 
lenlinai^sa 

In  iDugiu  ni 

proceeds  Ln 


M-ISS.  PARADISE,  Canto  VII.  437 

Of  satisfaction,  for  he  could  not  stoop 

Obeying,  in  humility  so  low, 

As  high,  he,  disobeying,  thoujrht  to  soar : 

And,  for  this  reason,  he  had  vainly  tried, 

Out  of  his  own  sufficiency,  to  pay 

The  rigid  satisfaction.     Then  bohooved 

That  God  should  by  Iuh  own  ways  lead  him  back 

Unto  the  life,  from  whence  he  fell,  restored : 

By  both  his  ways,  I  mean,  or  one  alone.^ 

But  nnce  the  deed  is  ever  prized  the  more, 

The  more  the  doer's  good  intent  appears ; 

Goodness  celestial,  whose  broad  signature 

Is  on  the  universe,  of  all  its  ways 

To  raise  ye  up,  was  fain  to  leave  out  none. 

Nor  aught  so  vast  or  so  maguiticent. 

Either  for  him  who  gave  or  who  received, 

Between  the  last  night  and  the  primal  day. 

Was  or  can  be.     For  God  more  bounty  show'd, 

Giving  himself  to  make  man  capable 

Of  his  return  to  life,  than  had  the  tenns 

Been  mere  and  unconditional  release. 

And  for  his  justice,  ever^-  method  else 

Were  all  too  scant,  had  not  the  Son  of  (iod 

Humbled  himself  to  put  on  mortal  flesh. 

"  Now,  to  content  thee  fully,  I  revert ; 
And  further  in  some  part^  unfold  my  speech. 
That  thou  mayst  see  it  clearly  as  myst^lf. 

"  I  see,  thou  sayst,  the  air,  the  fire  I  see, 
The  earth  and  water,  and  all  things  of  them 
Compounded,  to  corruption  turn,  and  soon 
Dissolve.     Yet  these  were  also  things  create. 
Because,  if  what  were  told  me,  had  been  true. 
They  from  corruption  had  been  therefore  free. 

"  The  angels,  O  my  brother !  and  this  clime 
Wherein  thou  art,  impassible  and  ])ure. 


1  By  both  Ms  ways,  I  mean,  or  one  alone]  Either  by  merry 
and  justice  united,  or  by  uicrcy  alone. 

«  In  some  part.]  She  reverts  to  that  part  of  her  diRCourso 
where  she  hiid  luiid  that  what  proceeds  iinmediati-ly  Trom 
God  "  no  end  of  being  Itnows."  She  then  proceeds  to  tell 
him  that  the  element^,  which,  thougli  he  knew  them  to  be 
created,  he  yet  khw  disHolved,  received  their  form  not  im- 
mediately from  God,  but  from  a  virtue  or  power  created  by 
God ;  that  the  soul  of  brutes  and  planti  is  in  like  nianntT 
drawn  forth  by  the  stars  with  a  combination  of  thoso  ele- 
ments meetly  tempered,  "  di  complession  potenziata ;"  but 
that  the  angels  and  the  heavens  mny  be  said  to  be  created  in 
that  very  mnnner  in  which  they  exist,  without  nny  interven- 
tion of  agency. 


438 


THE  VISION. 


I  call  cieHled,  even  bb  they  are 
III  theit  whole  being.     But  Ihe  cIcmeoLa, 
Which  tliou  haal  named,  ajid  what  af  Uieni  is  ioiAb, 
Ale  by  crealed  virtue  inform'd!  eroote,  « 

Their  BubstancH ;  and  create,  the  infomilug  virtiu  J 
In  these  bright  atars,  that  round  them  circling  moM 
The  soul  of  every  hrute  and  of  each  plaut,  ■ 

The  Toy  and  motion  of  the  Baered  lighla,  1 

Draw'  from  complexion  with  meet  power  endued. 
But  thuj  our  life  the  eternal  ^ood  taa]>lreB 
Immediate,  and  etiaraois  of  itaelf ; 
So  tbat  our  wielie«  rest  for  ever  here. 

"  And  hence  tliou  mayat  by  inference  coDoluda    i 
Our  resurrection  certain,'  if  lliy  iniud 
Coneider  how  the  human  flesh  was  framed. 
When  both  our  puenlii  at  tlie  first  were  made." 


CANTO 

vm.              1 

ARGUMENT. 

1 

The  Peel  usee 

ds  wilh  Beatrice 

■hird  heaven,  tthfl 

U  Ibe  plane 

1  the  aoul  orcu^ 

Hanel,  King 

of  Hungary,  wlio 

had 

beeaDaaie'iM««ai 

eulh,  HDd  » 

hoDon'.aneiepM 

kini 

unliildt  Itae  aas, 

why 

chlLdnn  SSbr  H  ilf 

p«IUDn  &a[^ 

'd™.]  1 

diibnnUy.  and  1  uK 

camplei  poleno 

ri  B|>pnm  10  mliule 
»:   ■'Wtolthodfttiii. 

*^^n'"he  e 

klDd,  lo  UKOn 

B.  of  Ihu  milh 

jhoHiriiJ^k 

Ih^l^ 

.  Into  Ihenomu 

he  cnDclnikia  tdsy  <» 

aodev«nmfl»ib|»' 

eeedi^d  imniei 

iBly™  m"G™l,  * 

bein 

reslored  lo  ifae  &>« 

eL'^j'ii?^, 

efor 

.Ln.  he  »™««Uyr^ 

:laiia  ID  huniGruL[ly  bv 
jnere  lamucb  in  thla  poeni  to  JDsuiy  lee  oacomimn  nuoD 
le  lonrnod  SalvLni  haa  posBcd  od  It.  when,  hi  AneplnLeb) 

es  of  lire  mlebl  be  better  leaiiied  thHn  Uifl  Greclaa  binL 
vm  fmm  tba  teanJierfl  of  cbe  porch  or  the  aondBiny.  IdBjt; 

Tlie  loaely  hoan  I  give  la  Danle-i  paj 
And  meet  inon  ucred  learning  In  hH 
Than  I  bad  goin'd  fmni  all  Ihe  ichaol 

Smdlando  lo  »lo  lung)  da  ibW  g11  lu 


1-94.  PARADISE,  Canto  VIII.  430 

The  worid^  was,  in  its  duy  of  peril  dark. 
Wont  to  believe  the  dotage  of  fond  love, 
From  the  fair  Cyprian  deity,  who  rolls 
In  her  third  epicycle,^  Hhed  on  men 
By  stream  of  potent  radiance :  therefore  they 
Of  elder  time,  in  their  old  error  blind, 
Not  her  alone  with  sacrifice  adored 
And  invocation,  but  like  honors  paid 
To  Cupid  and  Dione,  deem'd  of  them 
Her  mother,  and  her  son,  him  whom  they  feign'd 
To  sit  in  Dido's  bosom  :^  and  from  her. 
Whom  I  have  sung  preluding,  borrow'd  they 
The  appellation  of  that  star,  which  views 
Now  obvious,^  and  now  averse,  the  sun. 

I  was  not  ware  that  I  was  wafted  up 
Into  its  orb ;  but  the  new  loveliness, 
That  graced  my  lady,  gave  me  ample  proof 
That  we  had  entered  there.     And  as  in  flame 
A  sparkle  is  distinct,  or  voice  in  voice 
Discem'd,  when  one  its  even  tenor  keeps, 
The  other  comes  and  goes ;  so  in  that  liglit 
I  other  luminaries  saw,  that  coursed 
In  circling  motion,  rapid  more  or  less, 
As  theii^  eternal  vision  each  impels. 

1  The  world.]  The  Poet,  on  his  arrival  at  the  third  heaven, 
tells  Qs  that  the  world,  in  its  days  of  heathen  d.-irkness,  be- 
lieved the  influence  of  sensual  love  to  proceed  from  tlie  star, 
to  which,  under  the  name  of  Venun,  they  paid  divine  honors ; 
as  they  worshipped  the  supposed  mother  and  son  of  Vcnu^ 
under  the  names  of  Dione  and  Cupid. 

s  Epicycle.] 

the  sphere 

With  centric  and  eccentric  scribbled  o'er. 

Cycle  and  epicycle.  MUton,  P.  L.,  b.  vlii.  84. 

"  In  sni  dosso  di  questo  cerchio,"  &c.  Convito  di  Dante, 
p.  48.  "  Upon  the  back  of  this  circle,  in  the  heaven  of  Ve- 
nus, whereof  we  are  now  treating,  is  a  little  sphere,  which 
has  in  that  heaven  a  revolution  of  its  own  ;  w^hose  circle  the 
astronomers  term  epicycle." 

«  To  sit  in  Dido's  boaom.]    Virgil,  JEn.,  lib.  i.  718. 

*  JVbw  obvious.]  Being  at  one  part  of  the  year,  a  morning, 
and  at  another  an  evening  star.    So  Frezzi : — 

II  raggio  della  stella 

Che'l  sol  vagheggia  or  drieto  or  davantl. 

//  (^uadrir.,  lib.  1.  cap.  i. 

whose  ray, 

Being  page  and  usher  to  the  day. 

Does  mourn  behind  the  sun,  before  him  play. 

John  Hall. 

B  ^s  their.]  As  each,  according  to  their  several  deserts, 
partakes  more  or  less  of  the  beatific  vision. 


-i 


440 


THE  VISION. 


Never  was  blast  fTojn  Tapor  charged  » 
Whelbec  inviwbls  to  eye  or  no,' 
Dencended  with  such  speed,  il  had  not  se 
To  linger  in  dull  tudlDces,  compared 
To  thoee  celestial  lights,  that  towards  UB 
Leaving  the  circuit  of  their  joyous  riug. 
Conducted  by  the  loRj  BBraphim. 
And  after  them,  who  in  Iho  yan  appoar'c 
Such  an  Hosanna  sounded  as  hath  Ib& 
Desire,  ne'er  ainee  eilinct  in  me,  to  hear 
Renew'd  the  strain.     Then,  parting  from  tlie  mt,  1 
One  near  us  drew,  and  eale  began :  "  We  all 
Are  ready  ul  thy  pleasure,  well  dispoaeiJ 
To  do  thee  gentle  service.     We  are  they, 
To  whom  thou  in  Ihe  world  erewhile  didst  sing; 
" "        ■      '         mtelloclual  ministry" 


Mov 


Princedou 
That 


.plea 


iTPU  ;•  ya 


■B  of  lave  I 


-eroll, 


■  fun. 


A/lerir 

Sought  the  celestial  guide,  and  were  by  her 
Assured,  they  tum'd  again  unto  tlie  light. 
Who  had  so  largely  promised ;  and  with  Toiac 
That  bare  the  lively  proasare  of  my  zeal, 
■'  Tell  who  ye  are,"  I  cried.     Forthwith  it  gn 
In  «ie  and  splendor,  through  augmented  j«y; 
And  thus  it  anawer'd:  "  A  short  date,  below. 
The  world  poesess'd  me.     Had  the  time  been  m 
Much  evil,  that  will  come,  had  ni 
My  gladness  hides  thee  from  me,  which  dalh  shlnl 


uiilw 

1  wiih  ihta  a 


muking  the  tbioDGS  Ibe  moving  Inlelllgenca 

Charles  ll^tercrowned^KlDi!  of  UuliAVaadn^s^^^ 
n.,  KiDg  or  Knplei  and  SleUy.  u  wtalcti  dinolDlau,  ^^ 
hll   Ihlber'i   Jirelime,  be   did  not  tacncA.     Ttie   eA.  ij 

Mjinel.  was  LhsL  rea^dlsb^^e  wbirh  hln  brulher  Snbctv  Kon 


56-77.  PARADISE,  Canto  VIII.  44 1 

Aronnd,  and  shroud  me,  as  an  animal 
In  its  own  silk  enswath'd.     Thou  lovcdHt  me  wfll,' 
And  hadst  good  cause ;  for  hud  my  sojourning 
Been  longer  on  tho  earth,  the  love  I  bant  thee 
Had  put  forth  more  than  blossoms.    The  left  bank,' 
That  Rhone,  when  he  hath  mix'd  with  Sorga,  laves. 
In  me  its  lord  expected,  and  that  hum 
Of  fair  Ausonia,'  with  its  boroughs  old, 
Bari,  and  Crotou,  and  Gueta  pil<>d. 
From  where  tho  Trento  diw'mbogucH  his  waves, 
With  Verde  mingled,  to  tho  Hitlt-M>a  flood. 
Already  on  my  temples  l)eamM  the  crown, 
Which  gave  me  sovereignty  ov<*r  the  land^ 
By  Danube  wuHli'd,  whenas  he  strays  iM'yond 
The  limits  of  liis  (rerman  shores.     The  realm. 
Where,  on  the  gulf  by  stonny  Eurus  Iu»«h*d, 
Betwixt  PeloruH  and  Pachynian  heights. 
The  beautiful  Trinacria^  lies  in  gloom, 
(Not  through  Typhocus,®  but  the  vaiwry  cloud 
Bituminous  upsteumM)  that  too  did  look 
To  have  its  sceptre  wielded  by  a  race 
Of  monarchs,  sprung  through  me  from  Charles  and 
Rodolph ;' 


1  TTiou  loredst  me  well.]  Charles  Marti'l  might  have  been 
known  to  our  Poet  at  Florence,  whither  he  rnme  tu  meet  his 
father  in  1295,  the  year  of  his  death.  The  retinue  and  the 
habilinicnts  of  the  young  monarch  are  minutely  dcscril»ed 
by  G.  ViUanI,  who  adds,  that  "  he  remained  more  than  twenty 
days  in  Florence,  waiting  for  his  father  King  Charles  and  his 
brothers :  during  which  time  great  honor  was  done  him  by 
the  Florentines,  and  he  showed  no  less  love  towards  them, 
and  he  was  much  in  &vt)r  with  all."  Lib.  viii.  cap.  xiii. 
His  brother  Robert,  king  of  Naples,  was  tho  friend  of  J'o- 
trarch. 

*  The  left  bank.]    Provence. 

« That  horn 

Of  fair  ^usonia.]    The  kingdom  of  Naples. 

*  The  land.]    Hungary. 

*  The  beautiful  TVinacria.]  Sicily ;  so  called  from  its  three 
promontories,  of  which  Pachynus  and  Pelonis,  here  men- 
tioned, are  two. 

*  T)fphaus.]  The  giant,  whom  Jupiter  is  fabled  to  have 
ovenvhelmed  under  the  mountain  iEtna,  fVom  whence  he 
vomited  forth  smoke  and  flame. 

"*  Sprunff  through  me  from  Charles  and  Rodolph.]  "  Sicily 
would  lie  t<till  ruled  by  a  race  of  monarchs,  descended  through 
nie  from  Charles  I.  and  Ro<Iolph  I.,  the  limner  my  grand- 
father, king  of  Naples  and  Sicily  ;  the  latter,  eni))eror  of  (icr- 
many,  my  father-in-law ;"  both  celebrated  in  tho  Purgatory, 
Cunto  vii. 


M 


^^ 


449 


THE  VISION. 


Had  iiot  ill-tocding,^  which  dolh  deapetate  make' 
Thi-  people  eter.  iu  Palonno  raised 
The  ehout  of '  death,'  re-echood  loud  and  long. 
Had  bat  my  brother's  foresight'  kenn'd  aa  much, 
Ho  had  bijen  warier,  that  tba  p-oody  want 
Of  Cataiania  might  not  work  his  hale. 
And  iraly  Qeed  there  is  that  he  forecoat, 
Or  other  Tor  him.  lest  more  freight  be  laid 
On  hi»  already  over-lftden  bark- 
Nature  iu  hun,  from  bounty  fallen  to  thrift. 
Would  ask  the  guard  of  heaver  arme,  than  such 
As  only  csre  to  have  their  coSeta  fiU'd." 

"  My  liege  1  it  doth  enhance  the  joy  thy  words 
Infuse  iula  me,  mighty  as  it  is, 
To  think  my  gladness  manifest  lo  thes, 
As  to  myeelf,  who  own  it,  when  Ihoa  look'st 

■  e  source  and  Umit  of  all  good,  [spe 

where  thou  mnrkest  that  which  thou  dost 

i   prized  of  me  the  more.     Glad   thou 

ide  me: 
Now  moke  iutelligeul,  clearing  the  doubt 
Thy  speech  halh  raised  in  me  ;  for  much  I  ni 
How  bitter  can  Bpriag  up,'  vht 

I  thus  inquiring ;  he  ftorthwitli  replied ; 
■■  If  I  have  power  to  show  cue  truth,  noon 
Shall  (ace  thee,  which  thy  queMioniug  declarea 


— ^^ 

108-1S6.  PARADISE,  Canto  VIII.  443  { 

Behind  thee  now  conceal'd.     The  Good,^that  gruidefl 

And  blesBcd  makes  this  realm  which  thou  doet  mount, 

Ordains  its  providence  to  be  the  virtue 

In  these  great  bodies :  nor  the  natures  only 

The  all-perfect  mind  providoH  for,  but  with  them 

That  which  preserves  them  too ;  for  naught,  that  lies 

Within  the  range  of  that  unerring  bow. 

But  is  as  level  with  the  destined  aim, 

As  ever  mark  to  arrow's  point  opposed. 

Were  it  not  thus,  these  heavens,  thou  doet  visit. 

Would  their  effect  so  work,  it  would  not  be 

Art,  but  destruction ;  and  tliis  may  not  chance, 

If  th*  intellectual  powers,  that  move  these  stars. 

Fail  not,  and  who,  first  faulty  made  them,  fail. 

Wilt  thou  this  truth  more  clearly  evidenced  ?" 

To  whom  I  thus :  "  It  is  enough :  no  fear, 
I  see,  lest  nature  in  her  part  should  tire." 

He  straight  rejoin'd :  "  Say,  were  it  worse  for  man, 
If  he  lived  not  in  fellowship  on  earth  ?" 

"  Yea,"  answered  I ;  "  nor  here  a  reason  needs." 

"  And  may  that  be,  if  different  estates 
Grow  not  of  different  duties  in  your  life  ? 
Consult  your  teacher,^  and  he  tells  you  '  no.'  " 

Thus  did  he  come,  deducing  to  this  point. 


1  The  Good.]  The  Supreme  Being  nsos  the!«e  spheres  hs 
the  Intelligent  instruments  of  hi;*  provitlencc  in  the  conduct 
of  terrestrial  natures ;  so  that  these  natures  cannot  but  be 
conducted  aright,  unless  these  heavenly  bodies  should  them- 
selves fail  from  not  having  been  made  perfect  at  first,  or  the 
Creator  of  them  should  fail.  To  this  llante  replies,  that  na- 
tare,  he  is  satisfied,  thus  directed,  must  do  her  part.  Charles 
Martel  then  reminds  him,  that  he  had  learned  from  Aristotle, 
that  human  society  requires  a  variety  of  conditions,  and  con- 
sequently a  variety  of  qualifications  in  its  members.  Ac- 
conlingly,  men,  he  concludes,  are  born  with  different  powers 
and  capacities,  caused  by  the  influence  of  the  heavenly  bodies 
at  the  time  of  their  nativity ;  on  which  influence,  and  not  on 
their  parents,  those  powers  and  capacities  depend.  Having 
thus  resolved  the  question  proposed,  Charles  Martel  add:*,  by 
way  of  corollary,  that  the  want  of  observing  their  natural 
bent  in  the  destination  of  men  to  their  several  offices  in  life, 
is  the  occasion  of  much  of  the  disorder  that  prevails  in  the 
world. 

*  Consult  your  teacher.]  Aristotle,  ivei  i^  ivonolutv  fj  ndXny 
K,T.  A.  De  R^M  lib.  iii.  cap.  4.  "  Since  a  state  is  made  up 
of  members  differing  from  one  another;  (for  even  as  an  ani- 
mal, in  the  first  instance,  consists  of  soul  and  body;  and  the 
soul,  of  reason  and  desire ;  and  a  family,  of  man  and  woman ; 
and  property,  of  master  and  slave ;  in  like  manner  a  sUite 
consists  both  of  all  these,  and  besides  these  of  other  dissimi- 
lar kinds ;)  it  necessarily  follows,  that  the  excellence  of  ull 
the  members  of  the  state  cannot  be  one  and  the  same.*' 


444                        THE  VISION.                   1S7-1M. 

And  Ihen  eoncludpd:  "Forlhifl  causa  behooves. 

The  roots,  from  whence  youc  operationa  point, 

Must  differ.     Therofom  one  a  Solon  bom  ; 

Another,  Xenaii ;  and  MelchLacdec 

A  third ;  and  he  a  fourth,  wboee  airy  voyage                       1 

Ciwt  him  his  son.'     In  her  circuitous  course. 

Nature,  that  is  the  seal  to  mortal  wan. 

That  Esau  is  so  wide  of  Jacob :"  lience 

Quirinua'  of  so  base  a.  father  Bprines, 

He  dales  from  Mars  his  lineage.     Were  it  oot                    , 

That  Fiovidence  celestial  overruled,                         .  ^J 

Traced  by  the  generator  Mill  pursue                            ^^H 

UnBwerringly.     Thus  place  1  in  thy  sight                 ^^H 

That,  which  was  late  behind  thee.     But,  in  .ign      .^M 

Of  more  affection  for  thee,  'tis  my  will                           ^T^ 

Thou  wear  thia  corollary.     Nature  ever,                               " 

Fiadmg  discordant  fortune,  like  all  seed 

Out  of  its  proper  climate,  thrives  but  ill.                                1 

And  were  the  wortd  hclow  coiLleul  to  mart                         1 

It  would  DDt  lack  supply  uf  excellence.                   ^^H 

But  ye  perversely  to  religion  strain                              ^^^| 

Him,  who  was  bom  to  gird  on  him  the  sword.         ^^H 

Therefore*  your  steps  have  wander'd  from  tha  p*ti^^^^| 

CoKlhimM,.on.]    DsJ^ln-..                                         ^^M 

>  Emu  i>  n  <eiilf.  r>/ JxeU;.]     GeDSEl;,  iiv.  SX.    Twf^^H 

Usaies  ouc  Foel  tbr  HlKllag  an  Initanee,  ivbidi,  si'^^H 

and,  IhcrofDre.  if  lbs  nan  had  inv  lafluenee,  the  twotoM^^H 

dlsposlli'Ki.    Tbls  DbjecUim  is  weU  nnswered'^  LomtaiS^^^ 

who  qnulei  n  psnMie  (him  Eofier  Bkoii,  lo  shnw  ihil  Ai        ■ 

■mallest  dlver.Lly  of  place  was  beld  lo  uafat  ■  dlvsnllF  U 
the  Influence  of  ihe  Uenvcnly  bodies,  bo  ss  lo  OCMlsiDn  an  en- 

It  iimsi  be  lecollecleii,  Ihai  whHlever  power  msy  lie  sUrtlS-^B 

^ns'^^uTt  °nUi^r»^^or'tbB'^.r.D'nn''w!lir«  Om'S^H 

nierical  ss  hti  oplntoo  nppeani  lo  oi,  il  wiui,  In  ■  nonl  PI^^H 

t 

I 


1-«1.  PARADISE,  Caxto  IX.  445 


varied  their  inclinations  according  to  the  variety  of  artions 
to  be  performed  therein.  Which  they  who  consider  not, 
rudely  rushing  upon  professions  and  ways  of  life  uneqanl  to 
their  natures,  dishonor  not  only  themselves  and  their  func- 
tions, but  pervert  the  harmony  of  the  whole  w^orld."  Brown 
Ml  Vulgar  Errors,  b.  i.  ch.  5. 

1  Ofair  Clemema.]  Daughter  of  Charles  Martel,  and  sec- 
ond wife  of  Louis  X.  of  France. 

*  The  treachery.}  He  alludes  to  the  occupation  of  the  icing- 
dom  of  Sicily  by  Robert,  in  exclunion  of  his  brother's  son 
Carobert,  or  Charles  Robert,  the  rightful  heir.  See  U.  Villani, 
Ub.  viU.  c.  112. 

>  That  eaintly  light.]    Charles  Martel. 

*  Prove  thou  to  me.]  The  thoughts  of  all  created  minds 
being  seen  by  the  Deity,  and  all  that  is  in  the  Deity  lieing 
the  object  of  vision  to  lieatified  spirits,  such  spirits  must 
consequently  see  the  thoughts  of  all  created  minds.  Dante 
therefore  requests  of  the  spirit,  who  now  approaches  him, 
a  proof  of  this  truth  with  regard  to  his  own  thoughtx.    See 


CANTO    IX. 

ARGi:.MEXT. 

The  next  sfririt,  who  converses  with  our  Poet  In  the  planet 
Venus,  is  the  amorous  Cunixza.  To  her  succeeds  Foiro,  or 
Folques,  the  Provencal  banl,  who  declares  that  the  soul  of 
Rahab  the  harlot  is  them  also ;  and  then,  blaming  the  Pope 
for  his  neglect  of  the  holy  land,  prognosticates  some  levene 
to  the  papal  power. 

After  solution  of  my  doubt,  thy  diaries, 
O  fair  Clemcnza,*  of  the  treachery*  spake,  i 

That  must  befall  his  seed  :  but,  '<  Tell  it  not," 
Said  he,  "  and  let  the  destined  years  come  round."  ll 

Nor  may  I  tell  thee  more,  save  that  the  meed  II 

Of  sorrow  well-deserved  shall  quit  your  wrongs.  ,| 

And  now  the  visage  of  that  saintly  light' 
Was  to  the  sun,  that  fills  it,  turned  again. 
As  to  the  good,  whose  plentitude  of  bliss 
Sufficeth  all.     O  ye  misguided  souls ! 
Infatuate,  who  from  such  a  good  estrange 
Your  hearts,  and  bend  your  gaze  on  vanity, 
Alas  for  you  ! — And  lo !  toward  me,  next, 
Another  of  those  splendent  forms  approach'd, 
That,  by  its  outward  brightening,  testified 
The  will  it  had  to  pleasure  me.     The  eyes 
Of  Beatrice,  resting,  as  before. 
Firmly  upon  me,  manifested  forth 
Approval  of  my  wish.     "  And  O,"  I  cried, 
"  Blest  spirit !  quickly  be  my  will  performed ; 
And  prove  thou  to  me,^  that  my  inmost  thoughts 


446                          THE  VISION.                    aMO. 

I  can  reflect  on  thee."     Thereat  tbo  light, 

That  yet  wm  new  to  ma,  from  thp  recess, 

Where  it  before  was  singing,  thuH  hegao, 

As  one  who  joye  in  kiadnesa ;  "  In  thai  part'                       .  . 

Of  the  depraved  Italian  land,  wliicb  liea                               JJ 

Belween  Riallo  and  the  founlam-BpruigB                              D 

Of  Bronta  ajid  of  Piava,  there  dolh  rise,                               II 

But  (o  DO  lofly  enDhieaea,  a  hill,                                              H 

From  whence  erewhOe  a  firebrand  did  descend,                  II 

That  aorely  Bhoiil  tlio  regioD.     From  one  root                     ■ 

I  ond  it  sprung ;  my  name  on  earth  Cuniiiai'                    ■ 

And  here  I  glitter,  for  that  by  its  iight                                  M 

L 

This  alar  o'eroame  me.     Yet  1  naught  repine,"                     1 

1 

Nor  grudgo  myself  the  cause  of  this  my  lot ;                         1 

1 

Whioh  haply  vulgar  hearta  can  scarce  conceive.                  1 

1 

"  This'  jewel,  that  is  neit  me  in  our  heaven,                   1 

1 

LuBtTOUB  and  costly,  great  renown  hslli  left,                        | 

F 

And  not  to  perish,  ere  these  hnndred  yeare 

1 

Five  tunes'  absolve  their  round.    Consider  thou. 

IftlA.1     .«]    B«w™n  RWla  in  Ihe  VeoelLaa  l«M 

npd  the  Biufrm  uliho  riven  Bronui  and  Plavo.  iBiltuHdi 

cutle  cilled  Bonnwo.  Uw  Wnhptacs  of  the  Ounons  IpMl             1 

EtKDiInn  or  Aizollno,  the  braiber  of  Cnnlzza.  who  Ignnt 

lleLL,  Ganlol]!.  V.  110.                                                                                  1 

or  FhiIuu,  lib.  1.  cap.  3.  In  Mnnlorf.  Ber.  It.  Serlpl.,  ud.  iIU. 

p.  iva.    She  eloped  tnm  her  flr.il  husband.  Rlchnii  of* 
6onlftM,lo  the  company  of  Sontello,  («e  Porg.,  OiBLovl. 

ud  rfl..]  with  a-hom  Kbe  h  .nppoHd  lo  bave  eSbabliad  l«- 

1 

1 

wlfcwsi  llvloKal  Ibe  isms  time  lo  tbe  unie  clly;  sndci 

■ 

hli  being  oiunlered  by  ber  brolbpr  the  Irrani,  wu  bf  ha           ] 

1 

brother  married  to  >  oi^eonn  of  BragHQW :  l«(l,-.  wb^D  U 

I 

alwi  had  &llen  bf  the  Mine  band,  ihe,  alter  her  brothci't 

I 

death,  »u  uiulB  wedded  In  Veroaa. 

F 

>  ra  1  MufSt  rtfirn.]    ■■  I  am  not  dUsatUSed  thai  1  u 
not  ailollcd  8  higher  place." 

P 

'  TAn.l    Folco  nf  Genoa,  a  rolehrmled  rmTSBCal  Bnel;  MM- 

' 

Bionly  lemed  Folqnes  nf  MsrwIUu,  of  which  plug  bs  ns 

Rloi,  which  have  been  /oUowed  by  CreMhabeiil.  QnadiiChuJ          i 

Mlllol,  are  delected  by  ihe  dlllBonM  of  TIrabOKhl.     t.          1 

MBthlBB'ii  edlL,  V.  1.  p.  IB.    All  th«l  oppeiin  nrtain,  d  wkarl^H 

we  are  told  In  thin  Canto,  Ihsl  he  wai  or  Oeaw  i  and  by  Tf^^ 

trarch.  In  Ihe  Triomph  nf  Ixive.  c.  iv.,  ihal  ha  wu  MM^^H 

hnowoby  the  apiKllaUon  he  derived  rtuni  ManieUle(.u3a|^H 

lut  asinnied  the  nllBlou.1  baMI.                                          ^^^M 

One  of  hl<  verHii!  i>  died  by  Dante,  De  Vulg.  Eloq..  Ub.  4^^| 

i 

>Htc  liiM.]    The  n«  hundred  yeum  are  elapied :  i^^^| 

AH 

41-55.  PARADISE,  Canto  IX.  447 

If  to  excel  be  worthy  man^s  endeavor, 

When  such  life  may  attend  the  first.'    Yet  they 

Care  not  for  this,  the  crowd^  that  How  are  girt 

By  Adice  and  Taglianiento,  still 

Impenitent,  though  scourged.     The  hour  is  near* 

When  for  their  stubbomnesH,  at  Padua's  manh 

The  water  shall  be  changed,  that  laves  Vicenza.  | 

And  where  Cagnano  meets  with  Sile,  one*  ■■ 

Lords  it,  and  bears  his  head  aloft,  for  whom  I 

'I 

The  web*  is  now  a-warping.     Feltro"  too  ■ ! 

Shall  sorrow  for  its  godless  shepherd's  fault, 

Of  so  deep  stain,  that  never,  for  the  like,  ! 

Was  MaltaV  bar  unclosed.     Too  large  should  be 

The  skillet"  that  would  hold  Ferrara's  blood. 

And  wearied  he,  who  ounce  by  ounce  would  weigh  it,  i 


I, 


unleM  the  Provencal  MSd.  Hhonid  lie  brought  to  liiiht,  the  ;  i 

poetical  reputation  of  Foico  iiiUMt  reflt  on  the  mentioa  made  I 

of  him  by  the  more  fortunate  Italians. 

What  I  scarcely  ventured  to  h(>i)e  at  the  time  this  note 
was  written,  has  lieen  acromplishcd  by  the  great  learning 
and  diligence  of  M.  Raynouard.  See  his  Choix  des  Poesies 
des  Troubadours  and  Lcxiciue  Roman,  in  which  Folques  and  l! 

his  Proven9aI  brethren  are  awakened  into  the  second  life  ji 

augured  to  them  by  our  Poet.  j ' 

1  When  such  life  may  attend  the  first.]    When  the  mortal  | 

life  of  man  may  be  attrnded  hv  so  lasting  and  glorious  a  mem-  | 

(wy,  which  is  a  kind  of  second  life.  n 

*  The  crowd.]  The  })eople  who  inhabited  the  tract  of  coun-  '  j 
try  bounded  by  the  rivcnt  Tagliauicnto  to  the  east  and  AdIce  ij 
to  the  west.  j  j 

>  The  hour  is  near.]    Cuni7.za  foretells  the  defeat  of  Giaco-  j| 

po  da  Carrara  and  tht>  Paduans,  by  Can  Cirandc,  at  Vironzn, 
on  the  18th  September,  1314.    Hce  G.  Villani,  lib.  ix.  cap.  Vd. 

4  One.]  She  predicts  also  the  fate  of  RIccardo  da  (?anilno, 
who  is  said  to  have  been  murdered  at  Trevipi,  (where  the 
rivers  Sile  and  Cagnano  meet,)  while  he  was  engaged  in  play- 
ing at  chess. 

*  The  web.]  The  net,  or  snare,  into  which  he  is  destined  ., 
to  fall.  !| 

0  Flpltro.]  The  Bishop  of  Feltro  having  received  a  number 
of  fugitives  from  Fcrrara,  who  were  in  opposition  to  the  Pupe, 
under  a  promise  of  protection,  afterwards  gave  them  up ;  so 
that  they  were  reconducted  to  that  city,  and  the  great(>r  part 
of  them  there  put  to  death. 

7  Malta^s.]  A  tower,  either  in  the  citadel  of  Padua,  which, 
under  the  tyranny  of  Ezzolino,  had  been  '*  with  many  a  foul 
and  midnignt  murder  fed ;"  or  (as  some  say)  near  a  river  of 
the  same  name,  that  falls  into  the  lake  of  Rolscna,  in  which 
the  Pope  was  accustomed  to  imprison  such  as  liad  been 
guilty  of  an  irremissible  sin. 

«  The  shillet.]  The  blood  shed  could  not  be  coutaiued  la 
snrh  a  vflsttel,  if  it  wore  of  the  usual  size. 


448  THE  VISION.  Sfr- 

The  which  this  priert,'  ia  »how  of  party-ieal, 
CourteoUB  will  give  ;  nor  will  the  gift  ill  suit 
The  country's  cmrtoin.     We  deBcry"  above 
Mirron,  ye  call  Ihetn  ihroDfa,  from  which  to  i» 
Reflected  shine  the  judgrnenU  of  our  God : 
Whence  these  our  sayings  we  avouch  for  good." 

She  ended ;  and  appear'd  an  other  thoughts 
Intent,  re-cnlering  on  Ihe  wheel  she  late 
Had  lefl.     That  other  joyonce'  meanwhile  wux'd 

Like  choiooBt  ruby°  atiickon  by  the  sun. 
For,  in  that  upper  clime,  effulgence**  conieu 
Of  gladnen,  as  here  laughter:  and  below, 
As  the  mind  saddens,  murkier  grows  the  shade. 

"  God  seeth  all ;  and  in  liim  is  thy  sight," 
Said  I,  "  biert  spirit !  Therefore  will  of  his 
Cannot  to  thee  be  dait.     Why  then  delays 
Thy  voice  to  eatiafy  my  wish  untold  ; 
That  voice,  which  joins  Ihe  inexpceasire  song, 
Pastime  of  heaven,  the  which  those  ardors  siug 
That  cowl   Ihem   with  six  shadowing   wings'  g 


>  Till  r^eiU]    The  btihop.  vfhc 
at  IMrdsaaoritie  Pope,  hnd  cj — '- 

nme  nf  M^  tiilKaa  prelBU.    Tioys  csllii  Uin 


"  Tiai  oWUfjoymict.)    F« 


Icche  giojo  precLare. 


77-^.  PARADISE,  Canto  IX.  440 

I  wonld  not  wait  thy  asking,  wert  thou  known  : 

To  me,  as  throu^ly  I  to  thee  am  known."  ' ' 

He,  forthwith  answering,  thus  his  words  began : 
"  The  valley  of  waters,^  widest  next  to  that* 
Which  doth  the  earth  engarland,  shapes  its  coune, 
Between  discordant  shores,'  against  the  sun  .; 

Inward  so  far,  it  makes  meridian^  there,  j 

Where  was  before  the  horizon.  Of  that  vale 
Dwelt  I  upon  the  shore,  'twixt  Ebro's  stream 
And  Macra's,*  that  divides  with  passage  brief 
Genoan  bounds  from  Tuscan.     East  and  west  ■ 

Are  nearly  one  to  Begga*  and  my  land  ' 

Whose  haven''  erst  was  with  its  own  blood  warm. 
Who  knew  my  name,  were  wont  to  call  me  Folco ; 
And  I  did  bear  impression  of  this  heaven," 
That  now  bears  mine :  for  not  with  fiercer  flame 
Glow'd  Belus'  daughter,*  injuring  alike 
Sichffius  and  Creusa,  than  did  I, 


Ante  majestatis  ejas  gloriam  cherubim  senas  habentes  alas 
semper  adstantes   non   cessant   clamare  sanctni,  Banetu,  j 

sanctos.    Alberici  Visio,  $  39.  | 

six  wings  he  wore  to  shade 

His  lineaments  divine.  Milton^  P.  L.,  b.  v.  978. 

>  The  valley  of  waters.']    The  Mediterranean  sea 

*  ThaUl    The  great  ocean. 
3  Discordant  shores.']    Europe  and  Africa. 

*  Meridian.]  Extending  to  the  east,  the  Mediterranean  at 
last  reaches  the  coast  of  Palestine,  which  is  on  its  horizon 
when  it  enters  the  Straits  of  Gibraltar.  "  Wherever  a  man 
is,'*  says  Vellutello,  '*  there  he  has,  above  his  head,  his  own 
particular  meridian  circle/' 

» '  Twixt  Ebro's  stream 

And  Macraes.]  Ebro,  a  river  to  the  west,  and  Macra,  to 
the  east  of  Genoa  where  Folco  was  bom  ;  others  think  that 
Marseilles  and  not  Genoa  is  here  described;  and  then  Ebro 
must  be  understood  of  the  river  in  Spain. 

0  Begga.]    A  place  in  Africa. 

7  Whose  haven.]  Alluding  to  the  terrible  slaughter  of  the 
Genoe:ie  made  by  the  Saracens  in  936 ;  for  which  event  Vel- 
lutello  refers  to  the  history  of  Augustino  Giustiniani.  Those 
who  conceive  that  our  Poet  speaks  of  Marseilles,  suppose  the 
slaughter  of  its  inhabitants  made  in  the  time  of  Julius  Caessur 
to  be  alluded  to.  It  must  however  have  been  Genoa,  as  that 
place,  and  not  Marseilles,  lies  opposite  to  Buggea  or  Begga 
on  the  African  coast.  Fazio  degli  Uberti  describes  Buggea 
as  looking  towards  Majorca. 

Vidi  Buggea  che  v^  di  grande  loda ; 
Questa  nel  mare  Maiorica  guata. 

Dittamondo^  1.  v.  cap.  6. 
«  This  heaven.]    The  planet  Venus,  by  which  Folco  de- 
clares himself  to  have  been  formerly  influenced. 
*.Belus*  dawAter.]    Dido. 

29 


450 


THE  VISION. 


05-123. 


Long  Bs  il  niiled  the  unripen'd  doivn 

That  fledgBd  my  eltt*k ;  nor  oho  of  Rhodopi?,' 

Thai  was  beguiled  of  Deroophcwn ; 

Nor  Jovb'b  boh,'  wlien  the  charms  of  lole 

Were  ahiined  wilhio  hJB  heart.     And  yel  then  VOm 

No  Borrowful  repantance  here,  but  mirth. 

Not  for  the  fault,  (that  doth  not  come  to  mind.) 

But  for  the  virtue,  whose  o'emiling  away 

And  providence  have  wrought  thua  qunintlj.     Q«n 

The  nklll  ■>  look'd  Into,  that  faahioueth 

With  BHch  (Aeclual  working,'  and  the  good 

Dieoem'd,  aconiing  to  the  lower  world' 

From  this  above.     But  fully  to  content 

Thy  wishes,  all  that  in  Ihia  aphcre  have  birth, 

Demnnda  my  lurtbei  parte.     Inquire  thoii  wouldal, 

Who  of  Ihia  light  Is  deniien,  thai  here 

Beaide  me  sparkles,  as  the  sun-beani  doth 

On  the  clear  wave.     Know  then,  the  soul  of  RabtV 

Is  In  thftt  glsdHome  hsjboi ;  to  our  iHbe 

United,  and  the  foremost  rank  assign'd. 

She  to  tills  heaven,'  at  which  tlie  ahadaw  anda 

Of  your  sublunar  world,  was  taken  up, 

First,  in  Christ's  tnumph,  of  all  souls  r^deejn'd: 

For  well  behooved,  that,  in  some  port  of  heaven. 

She  should  remuin  a  Impliy,  to  declare 

The  mighty  conqiieiit  won  with  either  palm ;' 

For  that  ehe  fovor'd  Bml  tbe  high  exploit 

Of  Joshua  un  the  holy  land,  whereof 

The  Pope'  recks  little  now.     Thy  city,  plant 


1.*^..]    Phj-LiUi. 
.1    HmcalH. 


i  Of  him.]    Of  Satan. 

'  The  cursed  flower.]  The  coin  of  Florence,  called  the 
floren ;  the  covetous  desire  of  which  haa  excited  the  Pope  to 
so  much  evil. 

'  The  decretalgA  The  canon  law.  So  in  the  De  Monar- 
chic, lib.  iii.  p.  137.  '*  There  arc  uUo  a  third  set,  whom  they 
call  Docretiilists.  These,  alike  ignorant  of  theolofry  and  phi- 
losophy, relying  wholly  on  their  decretals,  (which  I  Indeed 
esteem  not  unworthy  of  reverence,)  in  tlie  hope  I  sup|KMe  of 
obtaining  for  them  a  {mramuunt  influence,  derogate  from  the 
authority  of  the  empire.  Nor  is  this  to  l)e  wondered  at, 
wlien  I  have  heard  one  of  them  saying,  and  impudently 
mHintaining,  th:it  traditions  are  the  foundation  of  the  lalih 
uf  the  church.*'  He  proceeds,  to  amfute  thin  opinl<»n,  and 
concludes  *'  that  the  church  does  not  derive  its  authority 
from  traditions,  but  traditions  from  the  church :"  "  neccss« 
est,  ut  non  ecclesis  a  trad itioni bus,  sed  ab  ecclesiu  tradi- 
tjonibus  accedat  authoritas."  In  acnmlance  with  the  senti- 
mental of  Dante  on  this  point,  the  Church  of  England  has 
framed  that  article,  so  well  worthy  of  tteing  duly  considered 
and  curried  into  practice,  which  begins :  "  It  is  not  necessary 
that  traditions  and  ceremonies  be  in  alt  places  one,  or  utterly 
like ;  for  at  ail  times  they  have  been  divers,  and  may  be 
changed  according  to  the  iliversity  of  countries,  times,  and 
men's  manners,  so  that  nothing  be  ordained  against  God's 
word."    Jlrticle  xxxiv. 

<  The  Vatican.]  He  alludes  either  to  the  death  of  Pope 
Boniface  VIII.,  or,  as  Venturl  supposes,  to  the  coming  of  the 
Emperor  Henry  VII.  into  Italy  ;  or  else,  according  to  the  yet 
more  probable  conjecture  of  Lombardl,  to  the  transfer  of  the 
holy  see  from  Rome  to  Avignon,  which  took  place  in  the 
pontificate  of  Clement  V. 


15M-137.  PARADIiSE,  Canto  X.  451 

Of  him,'  that  on  his  Maker  tiim*d  the  back, 
And  of  whose  envying  so  much  wo  hath  tipning, 
Engenders  and  expands  the  cursed  flower,^ 
That  liath  made  wander  both  the  sheep  and  lambsy 
Turning  tlie  shepherd  to  a  wolf.     For  this, 
The  gospel  and  great  teachers  laid  aside, 
The  decretals,"  as  their  stuflTd  margins  show, 
Are  the  sole  study.     Pope  and  Cardinals, 
Intent  on  these,  ne'er  journey  but  in  thought 
To  Nazareth,  where  Gabriel  oped  his  wings. 
Yet  it  may  chance,  ere  long,  the  Vatican,* 
And  other  most  selected  parts  of  Rome, 
That  were  the  grave  of  Peter's  soldiery. 
Shall  be  delivered  from  the  adulterous  bond." 


CANTO    X. 

—  r 

ARGUMENT.  || 

I 
Their  next  ascent  carries  them  into  the  sun,  which  is  the 

fourth  heaven.    Here  they  are  encompassed  with  a  wreath 


V 


~\ 


THE  VISION. 


LooKiNO  into  his  firet-boni  with  [he  lovo, 
Which  breathes  from  both  etemiii,  the  fiist  Mi^t 
Inefinble,  wherever  eyo  or  rain d 
Cbn  roam,  huth  in  such  order  ail  diepofied, 
As  none  may  see  and  fail  to  enjojr.     Raise,  IheB, 
O  render !   to  the  lofty  wheelg,  with  me, 
Thy  ken  directed  lo  Ihe  point,'  whereat 
One  motion  otrikee  on  the  other.     There  bepn 
Thy  wonder  of  the  migbly  AreliitBet, 
Who  loves  his  work  bo  inwardly,  his  eye 
Dotli  ever  watch  it.     See,  bow  thence  obliqo^ 
Branoheth  the  circle,  where  tlio  planets  mli 
To  pour  their  wished  influence  on  the  world ; 
Whose  path  not  bending  (bus,  in  heaven  above* 
Mucli  virtue  would  be  lost,  and  here  on  earth 
All  power  well  nigh  extinot;  or,  from  direct 
Were  itB  departure  distant  more  or  le«B, 
1'  the  univenal  ordrr,  great  defect 
MuBt,  botli  in  heaven  aud  here  beneath,  eusoe. 

Now  rest  thee,  reader !  on  thy  bench,  aud  muae 
Anticipalive  of  the  feast  to  oome  ; 
80  shall  delight  make  thee  not  (eel  thy  toil. 
Lo  !  I  have  set  before  thee ;  for  (hyseif 
Feed  now :  tho  matter  I  indite,  henceforth 
Demands  entire  my  thought.     Join'd  with  the  paili' 
Which  lalo  we  told  of,  the  great  minister' 
Of  nature,  thai  upon  the  world  imprints 

benvBDH  from  eaaL  lo  tvcHt  Duiy  be  asld  to  strike  wUk  cnvt 
CBt  forcn  AgalnHl  tiie  niutlon   pmperio  Itie  pJuieu:  and  All 


■  ONIguB.)    The  zodiac. 

t  fa  AiaEin  otorc]    If  the  planeu  did  not  pi 


InlerHclioa  of  Ob    ^ 

i 


=-^\ 


*  ^iong  the  spires.]  According  to  our  Poet's  system,  as  the 
earth  U  motion  less,  the  8iin  passes,  by  a  spiral  motion,  from 
one  tropic  to  the  other. 

»  fVkere.']  In  which  the  sun  rises  ever^'  day  earlier  after 
the  vernal  equinox. 

*  But  as  a  man.]    That  is,  he  was  quite  insensible  of  it. 

4  Fourth  famiijf.]  The  inhabitants  of  the  sun,  the  fourth 
planet. 

*  Of  his  spirit  and  of  his  offspring.]  The  person  of  the 
third*  and  the  generation  of  the  second  person  in  the  Tiiu- 
ity. 


98-M.  PARADISE,  Canto  X.  453 

The  virtue  of  the  heaven,  and  doles  out 

Time  for  us  with  his  beam,  went  circling  on 

Along  the  spires,*  wherc^  each  hour  sooner  comes; 

And  I  was  with  him,  wcetlem  of  ascent. 

But  as  a  man,'  that  weetM  him  come,  ere  thinking. 

For  Beatrice,  she  who  puMHcth  on 
So  suddenly  from  good  to  better,  time 
Counts  not  the  act,  oil  then  how  great  must  needs 
Have  been  her  briglitneus !  What  there  was  i'  tir  sun, 
(Where  I  had  euter'd,)  not  through  change  of  hue, 
But  light  transparent—did  1  summon  up 
Grenius,  art,  practice — I  might  not  so  speak, 
It  should  be  e'er  iniuginod  :  yet  believed 
It  may  be,  and  the  sight  be  justly  craved.  '• 

And  if  our  fantasy  fail  of  such  height,  j 

What  marvel,  since  no  eye  above  the  sun  I 

Hath  ever  travoll'd?     Such  are  they  dwell  here, 
Fourth  family*  of  the  Omnipotent  Sire,  i 

W^ho  of  his  spirit  and  of  his  of&pring^  shows ;  ! 

And  holds  them  still  enraptured  with  the  view. 
And  thus  to  me  Beatrice :  *'  Thank,  oh  thank 
The  Sun  of  angels,  him,  who  by  his  grace 
To  this  perceptible  hath  lifted  thee." 

Never  was  heart  in  such  devotion  bound, 
And  with  complacency  so  absolute 
Disposed  to  render  up  itself  to  God, 
As  mine  was  at  those  words :  and  so  entire 
The  love  for  Him,  that  held  me,  it  eclipsed 
Beatrice  in  oblivion.     Naught  displeased 
Was  she,  but  smiled  thereat  so  joyously. 
That  of  her  laughing  eyes  the  radiance  brake 
And  scattered  my  collected  mind  abroad. 

Then  saw  I  a  bright  band,  in  livelinesH 
Surpassing,  who  tliemselves  did  make  the  crown, 
And  us  their  centre  :  yet  more  sweet  in  voice. 
Than,  in  their  visage,  beaming.     Cinctured  thus, 
Sometime  Latona's  daughter  we  behold. 


4B4 


THE  TlSrON. 


When  Ihe  impregnate  ail  rebiiiu  the  thread 
That  weaves  her  lona.    In  the  celeatinl  court, 
WheacB  1  return,  are  many  jeHels  found. 
So  deal  and  beautiful,  Ihey  canoDt  bniak 
Tniaqiorting  from  tbat  realm :  and  of  tbeee  lighU 
Such  was  the  song.'     Who  doth  not  iwune  hs  wing 
To  BOUT  up  thither,  let  him'  look  from  thence 
For  lidiagH  from  Ihe  dumb.     When,  sinpng  Ihua, 
Those  burning  auns  had  circle  round  ua  thiice, 
A«  nearest  etara  around  the  fiited  pole  ; 
Thm  aoem'd  they  like  lo  ladies,  trom  Ihe  dsncs 
Not  ceoaing,  but  anaponse,  in  silent  pause. 
Listening,  till  they  have  caught  the  strain  mew : 
Suspended  so  they  stood:  and,  from  within, 
Thus  heard  I  one,  who  apake ;  "  Since  with  its  baim 
The  grace,  whence  true  love  lighteth  first  hia  flame, 
Thai  after  doth  increaae  by  loving,  shines 
So  multiplied  in  thee,  it  leads  thee  up 
Along  this  ladder,  down  whose  hallow'd  steps 
None  e'ei  descend,  and  mount  Ihem  not  a^tta; 
Who  from  his  vial  ahonld  refuse  thee  wine 
To  slake  thy  thirat,  no  leas  constrained'  were, 
Than  water  flowing  not  unto  tlie  sea.  [bloom 

Thou  fain  wouldst  hear,  what  plants  are  these,  thai 
In  the  bright  garland,  which,  admiring,  girds 
This   fair  dame  round,   who   Hlrengtheuu  thee  kt 
I,  tiien,'  was  of  the  lamba,  that  Dominic      [heavelL 
I*Bds,  for  his  saiully  flock,  along  the  way 
Where  well  they  thrive,  not  swoln  with  vanity- 
He,  nearest  on  my  ri^t  band,  brother  was, 
And  maWOT  to  me  ;  Albert  of  Cologne* 

1  Slid  Hu  Ui  iDiif .)  Tbe  long  of  Ibeae  iplriti  wa>  IneF- 
ruble.  It  ivuH  like  a  jewel  n  htghly  iiiixAd.  Ifaallheapv- 
cjiikno  of  It  lo  unuther  cnunlty  la  prohlbileil  by  law. 

'ttlAifll    1*1  Win  ni- ' — "— "-• 

tDfluvvutvan]s[hesea.si 
WU™.]    "Iwasorih . 

glngti!.^  Thurlll^B,  in  1103,  uid  iladied  al  pul>  sad  si 
Paiaii ;  Hi  Ihe  Istbu  nf  wb^di  plaun  be  enlerei]  lata  Ihe  Do- 
Dilnlcun  order.  He  iben  lingbt  Iheoloiy  In  variDUa  pun  of 
Gerimiiiy,  aod  uarUcululy  al  GDlDgoe.  Thomai  AqolBU 
wu  bl9  Ibvotlio  pupil.  In  1360,  he  nIneUBtly  HoepiHl  As 
blihoprlc  of  Rnlfaban,  and  la  two  yimrw  nftet  mlisned  tt 
and  reinrned  Id  his  cell  In  Cologne,  where  Ibe  reninlodn  of 


90-104.  PARADISE,  Canto  X.  455 

Is  this ;  and,  of  Aquiniini,  Thomas'  I. 
If  thou  of  all  the  rest  wouldst  be  aaeured, 
Let  thine  eye,  waiting  on  the  words  I  speak, 
In  circuit  journey  round  the  blessed  wreath. 
That  next  resplendence  issues  from  the  smile 
Of  Gratian,^  who  to  either  forum'  lent 
Such  help,  as  favor  wins  in  Paradise. 
The  other,  nearest,  who  adorns  our  quire, 
Was  Peter,*  he  that  with  the  widow  gave* 

having  dealt  in  the  magical  art  is  well  known  ;  and  his  bio- 
grapbera  take  aonie  pains  to  clear  him  of  IL  Scriptores  Or- 
dinis  PrKdicatorum.  by  Quctif  and  Echard.  Lut.  Pnr.  1719. 
foL  torn.  i.  p.  102.  Frezzi  places  Albertus  Magnus  next  in 
lank  to  Aristotle : 

Alberto  Magno  e  dopo  lui  M  secondo : 

Egli  suppli  11  meuibri,  e  M  vcsliuientu 

Alia  Filosofia  in  qucsto  mondo. 

II  Quadrir.,  lib.  iv.  cap.  0. 
1  CfjSquinunt,  TTkomas.]  Thomas  Aquinas,  of  whom  Bn- 
oer  is  reported  to  have  said,  "  Take  but  Thomas  away,  and  I 
will  overturn  the  church  of  Rome  ;'*  and  whom  HcN)k(>r  terms 
"  the  greatest  among  the  school  divines,"  (Reel.  Pol.,  b.  iii. 
$0,)  was  born  of  noble  parents,  who  anxiously  but  vainly  ■ 

endeavored  to  divert  him  fmm  a  life  of  celibacy  and  study.  - 

He  died  in  1274,  at  the  age  of  forty-seven.    Echard  and  Uue-  I  j 

tif.,  ibid.  p.  371.    See  also  Purgatory,  Canto  xx.  v.  67.    A  1 

modern  French  writer  has  collected  some  particulnr:*  relating  I 

to  the  influence  which  the  writing:!  of  Thomas  Aquinas  and  i 

Bnonaventura  hnd  on  the  opinions  of  Dante.    i**:e  the  third  , 

part  of  Ozananrs  Dante  et  la  Phllosophie  Cutholique  au  ' 

treisieme  siecle.    8°.  Par.  1839.  I 

*  Oratian.]  "  Gnitian,  a  Benedictine  monk  belonging  to 
the  convent  of  St.  Felix  and  Nabor,  at  Bologna,  and  by  birth 
a  Tuscan,  c«miposed,  about  the  year  113(1,  for  the  use  of  the 
schools,  an  abridgment  or  epitome  of  canon  law,  drawn  from 
the  letters  of  the  pontiffs,  the  decrees  uf  councils,  and  the 
writings  of  the  ancient  doctors."  Maclaine's  Jfoaheim,  v.  iii. 
cent.  xii.  part  ii.  cap.  i.  $  6. 

>  7V»  either  forum.]  ♦'  By  reconciling,"  as  Venturi  explains 
it,  **  the  civil  with  the  canon  Ihw." 

*  Peter.]  "  Pietn)  Lombardo  was  of  obscure  origin,  nor  is 
the  place  of  his  birth  in  Ijouibardy  ascertained.  With  a 
recommendation  from  the  Bishop  of  Lucca  to  Ht.  Bernard,  he 
went  Into  France  to  continue  his  studies ;  and  for  that  pur- 
pose remained  some  time  at  Rheinis,  whence  he  afterwards 
proceeded  to  Paris.  Here  his  reputation  was  so  preat,  that 
Philip,  brother  of  Louis  VII.,  I)cing  chosen  bishop  of  Paris, 
resigned  that  dignity  to  Pictro,  whose  pupil  he  had  been. 
He  held  his  bishopric  only  one  year,  and  died  in  liOO.  His 
Liber  Sententiarum  is  highly  esteemed.  It  contains  a  system 
of  scholastic  theology,  so  much  more  complete  than  any 
which  had  been  yet  seen,  that  it  may  be  deemed  an  original 
work."  TirabosehhUtoria  delta  Lett.  Ital.  torn.  iii.  lib.  iv.  cap. ii. 

*  That  with  the  tcidow  gave.]    This  alludes  to  the  begin- 
ning of  the  Liber  Sententiarum,  where  Peter  says:   "Cu- 
piens  aliqnid  de  penuri&  ac  tenultate  no6tx&  com  pauf^cculdi  \\ 
m  gaxophylacima  dominl  niittere,  (be.''*  \ 


45A 


THE  VISION. 


las-m. 


To  holy  church  his  tniuiuie.    The  fifth  light,' 

Goodliest  of  nil.  is  by  such  lave  inEpired, 

Thai  uU  your  world  crnves  lidrags  of  his  doom:" 

Within,  (here  a  the  lofty  light,  Bndow'd 

With  Bopicncp  BO  profouod,  if  Irulh  be  troth, 

Thai  nilh  a  ken  of  such  wide  ampliiude 

No  second  hath  arisen.     Neil  behold 

That  taper*!  radiance,'  la  whose  view  was  abown, 

ClEHi-lieat,  the  nalure  and  the  miiiiWry 

Angelical,  while  yet  in  flesh  it  dwelt. 

In  the  other  little  light  aerenely  smiles 

Thai  pleader*  for  the  Chnslian  temples,  he. 

Who  did  provide  Anguetui  of  his  lore. 

Now,  if  thy  mind'6  eye  pass  from  li^ht  to  11^, 

Upon  my  prtuses  following,  of  the  eighth* 

Thy  thirst  ia  next.    The  eainlly  soul,  that  shona 

The  world'a  decoitfubien,  to  all  who  hear  hitn, 

Ib,  wilh  the  eight  of  all  the  good  thai  is, 


L: 


•  Tluit  ttfer'i  rsiiancs.]    81.  Dtonysloi,  [he  A 
TAnafiaa  Ihe  Aimpiuilui,  dlulple  of  t^I.  Psnt.  Hnd 


one  Ziy  Bubilme  CDDLflmplHlEofli  ILved  oioal  probably  in  lU 
Qiary,  (ihe  iburth :)  LhoBEh  some  place  tdm  befbrc  nOm 

t'caT^T"  ""     ■  """    "      ■''■■™"-' 

e  RCtb  contary,  i>anlui 


[>f  ar|uinenl  was  panoed  by  Aueo'^J 
Orcntqa  Ik  clsued  iiy  Daale,  in  hla 


PrtKU- 

MboOkDtaA 

Dr  Vulg,  Ela^ 

lu  prooas."'— "  wlio  have  nrinen  nma 
inosg  oTalyle."    The  others  are  C^fcero. 


probabiljiy.  snppo«e  \\u 
hroHt  and  aol  Of  mi  us. 
•  TIU  i:iglia.i    BoHIIU 


(his  H 


fl,  about  470.   "lasathe 

ta  bsiai  esiafed  in  a  MI' 


193-14S.  PARADISE,  Canto  X.  457 

Blest  there.    The  Ihnbs,  whence  it  wa«  driven,  lie 
Down  in  Cieldanro ;'  and  from  martyrdom 
And  exile  came  it  here.     Lo !  further  on, 
Where  flames  the  arduous  spirit  of  Isidore  f 
Of  Bede  f  and  Richard/  more  than  man,  erewhile, 
In  deep  discernment     Lastly  this,  from  whom 
Thy  look  on  me  reverteth,  was  the  beam 
Of  one,  whose  spirit,  on  high  musings  bent, 
Rebuked  the  lingering  tardiness  of  death. 
It  is  the  eternal  light  of  Sigebert^ 
Who  'scaped  not  envy,  when  of  truth  he  argued, 
Reading  in  the  straw-litter'd  street"'     Forthwith, 
As  clock,  that  calleth  up  the  spouse  of  God^ 
To  win  her  bridegroom's  love  at  matin's  hour. 
Each  part  of  other  fitly  drawn  and  urged. 
Sends  out  a  tinkling  sound,  of  note  so  sweet. 
Affection  springs  in  well-disposed  breast ; 
Thus  saw  I  move  the  glorious  wheel ;  thus  heard 
Voice  answering  voice,  so  musical  and  soft, 
It  can  be  known  but  where  day  endless  shines. 


1  Ciddauro.]  Boutins  was  buried  at  Pavia,  in  the  monas- 
tery of  St.  Pietro  in  Ciel  d'oro. 

*  Isidore.]  He  was  Archbishop  of  Seville  daring  forty 
years,  and  died  in  635.    See  Mariana,  Hist.,  lib.  vi.  cap.  vii. 

Mosheim,  whose  critical  opinions  in  general  mnst  be  taken 
with  some  allowance,  observes,  that  "  his  grammatical,  theo- 
logical, and  historical  produdtions,  discover  more  learning  and 
pedanOry  than  judgment  and  taste." 

s  Bede.]  Bede,  whose  virtues  obtained  him  the  appellation 
of  the  Venerable,  was  bcnm  in  672,  at  Wermouth  and  Jarrow, 
in  the  bishopric  of  Durham,  and  died  in  735.  Invited  to  Rome 
lyy  Pope  Sergius  I.,  he  preferred  passing  almost  the  whole  of 
hk  life  in  the  seclusion  of  a  monastery.  A  catalogue  of  his 
niimerous  writings  maybe  seen  in  Kippis's  Biographia Britan- 
nica,  V.  ii. 

«  Richard.]  Richard  of  St.  Victor,  a  native  either  of  Scot- 
land or  Ireland,  was  canon  and  prior  of  the  monastery  of  that 
name  at  Paris;  and  died  in  1173.  "He  was  at  the  head  of 
the  Mystics  in  this  century;  and  his  treatise,  entitled  the 
Mjrstical  Ark,  which  contains  as  it  were  the  marrow  of  this 
kind  of  theology,  was  received  with  the  greatest  avidity." 
Maelaine'a  Mogheim,  v.  iii.  cent.  xii.  p.  U.  c.  ii.  ^  23. 

*  Siffebert.]  "  A  monk  of  the  abbey  of  Gemblonrs,  who  was 
In  high  repute  at  the  end  of  the  eleventh,  and  beginning  of 
the  twelfth  century."    Diet,  de  Moreri. 

*  7%e  straw-littered  street.]  The  name  of  a  street  in  Paris  S 
the  "  Rue  de  Fouarre." 

7  The  spouse  of  Ood.]    The  church. 


THE  VISION. 

CANTO   XL 

ARGUMENT, 


O  roNi>  anxiety  of  nujrtal  mm !' 
How  vain  and  ■□coooiuBiTe  argiunan 
Am  IllDse,  which  muke  thoa  boal  thy  wings  bolM 
For  ptatuteB  ono^  and  ono  for  aphoriaio^ 
Was  hunting ;  thia  Iho  priesUiood  foll(iw*d ;  tSlttM 
By  forco  or  sopliiitry,  anpired  to  rale ; 
To  Tob,  another ;  and  another  sought. 
By  civil  buainesB,  wealth  ;  one,  moiling;,  lay 
Tangled  in  net  of  Bensuai  delight ; 
And  one  to  wistless  indolencs  reaign'd  ; 
What  tune  from  all  these  empty  QiingB  a 
With  Beatrice.  I  (hiw  gloHously 
Was  raised  aloft,  and  made  tlie  guest  of  hearei 
'      They  of  the  circle  to  that  point,  each  one. 
Where  erst  it  was,  had  tum'd  ;  and  steady  ^ 
As  cnudlo  in  ha  Bocket.     Then  within 
The  lustre,'  that  ere  while  bespake  me,  smiling 
W*ith  merer  gladaesa,  heard  I  thus  begin : 

>'  E'en  as  liis  beam  illumes  me,  so  I  look 
Jntothe  eternal  light,  nnd  clearly  mark  [doubt, 

Thy  thoughts,  frran  whsnee  they  rise.     Thou  art  is 
And  wouldst  that  1  should  belt  my  words  flfre«b 
In  such  pi  am  open  phrase,  as  may  be  smooth 
To  thy  perception,  where  I  told  thee  Into 
That '  well  they  thrive ;"  and  that '  aa  Btcond  Bocli' 

"The  Providence,  that  gnvemelh  the  world. 
In  depth  of  counae)  by  created  ken 
Unfalhomable,  to  the  end  that  she,* 
Who  with  loud  cries  was  'spoused  in  precioos  blood. 
Might  keep  her  fooling  towards  her  well-beloTed,' 


:he  rplrll  otTboinu  Aqulnu. 
MriDf.']    See  ibe  lui  Cute.  V.  Bl 

J.l  'jeaiH  Christ. 


1 


SiMT.  PARADffiE,  Camto  XI.  459 

Safe  in  heraelf  and  constant  unto  him, 
Hath  two  ordain'd,  who  should  on  either  hand 
In  chief  eecort  her :  one,^  seraf^c  all 
In  fervency ;  for  wisdom  upon  earth, 
The  other,*  splendor  of  cherubic  light 
I  but  of  one  will  tell :  he  tells  of  both. 
Who  one  conmiendeth,  which  of  them  soe'er 
Be  taken :  for  their  deedd  were  to  one  end. 

"  Between  Tupino,'  and  the  wave  that  falb 
From  blest  Ubaldo's  chosen  hill,  there  hangs 
Rich  slope  of  mountain  high,  whence  heat  and  cold^ 
Are  wailed  through  Perugia's  eastern  gate : 
And  Nocera  with  Gualdo,  in  its  rear. 
Mourn  for  their  heavy  yoke.*^    Upon  that  side, 
Where  it  doth  break  its  steepness  most,  arose 
A  sun  upon  the  world,  as  duly  this 
From  Ganges  doth :  tlierefore  let  none,  who  speak 
Of  that  place,  say  Ascesi ;  for  its  name 
Were  lamely  so  delivered ;  but  the  East,* 
To  call  things  rightly,  be  it  henceforth  styled. 
He  was  not  yet  much  distant  from  his  rising. 
When  his  good  influence  'gan  to  bless  the  earth. 
A  dame,''  to  whom  none  openeth  pleasure's  gate 
More  than  to  death,  was,  'gainst  liis  father's  will,' 
His  stripling  choice :  and  he  did  make  her  his, 
Before  the  spu-itual  court,*  by  nuptial  bonds, 

1  One.]    Saint  Francis. 

s  T%e  other.]    Saint  Dominic. 

s  Tupino.]     Thomas  Aqainas  proceeds   to   describe  the 
birthplace  of  Saint  Francis,  between  Tupino,  a  rivulet  neat 
Assisi,  or  Ascesi,  where  the  saint  was  bom  in  1183,  and  Chi 
ascib,  a  stream  that  rises  in  a  mountain  near  Agobbio,  chosen 
by  Saint  Ubaldo  for  the  place  of  his  retirement. 

*  Heat  and  cold.]  Cold  from  the  snow,  and  lieat  from  the 
reflection  of  the  sun. 

»  Yoke.]  Vellutcllo  understands  this  of  the  vicinity  of  the 
mountain  to  Nocera  and  Gualdo;  and  Venturi  (as  I  have 
taken  it)  of  the  heavy  impositions  laid  on  those  places  by  the 
Peruvians.  For  giogo,  like  the  Latin  jv£um,  will  admit  of 
either  sense. 

•  The  East] 

This  is  the  east,  and  Juliet  is  the  sun.      Skakspeare. 

1  A  dame.]  There  is  in  the  under  church  of  St.  Francis,  at 
Assisi,  a  picture  painted  by  Giotto  from  this  subject.  It  if 
considered  one  of  the  artist's  best  works.  See  Kucler's 
Hand-book  of  the  History  of  Painting,  translated  by  a  lady. 
Land.,  1843,  p.  48. 

8  ^Gainst  his  father* s  tot//.]  In  opposition  to  the  wishes  of 
his  natural  father. 

»  Before  the  epiritual  court.]  He  made  a  vow  of  poverty 
In  the  presence  of  the  bishop  and  of  his  natural  father. 


4 


460                        TIIE  VISION.                     i8-«. 

And  in  his  talher'e  sight !  from  day  to  day, 

Then  loved  hor  more  devoally.    She,  bereaYed 

or  her  fust  husband,'  slighted  uid  obecure. 

Thousand  and  hundred  yeara  and  more,  remaia'd 

Without  a  single  suitor,  till  he  came. 

Nor  aught  avail'd,  that,  with  Amyclas,"  she 

Was  found  unmoved  at  rumor  of  his  voice,         [mm 

Who  shook  the  world :  nor  aught  her  constant  IbIiI- 

Whereby  with  Christ  she  mounted  on  the  ens. 
When  Mary  stay'd  beneath.     But  not  to  deal 

Thus  cloflsly  with  thee  longer,  take  at  large 

The  lovers'  titles— Poverty  and  Francis. 

Their  concord  and  glad  looks,  wonder  and  love,                 ,  ] 

And  sweet  regard  gave  birth  to  holy  tholigbls, 

So  much,  that  vouerable  Bernard'  firat 

Did  bare  his  feet,  and,  in  pniaiiit  of  peace 

So  heavenly,  ran,  yet  deem'd  his  fooling  slow. 

O  hidden  riches  1  U  proliRc  good  ! 

Egidins*  bares  him  next,  and  next  Sylvester,' 

And  fallow,  both,  the  biidegroom  :  so  the  bride 

Can  please  them.     Thenceforth  goes  he  on  his  vajr. 

The  father  and  the  master,  with  his  spousa. 

And  with  that  family,  whom  now  the  cord'                        .1 

Girt  bnmbly ;  nor  did  abjectaess  of  heart                             1 

Woigh  down  his  eyelids,  for  that  be  was  son                      j 

'  JIo-jTrirt  (MinKrf,)    ChrtlL                                                              '' 

'  .9ni»c/iw.J    Lucun  maku  Ctaar  erclBim,  on  witoimlii! 

Qu,  «cS«  pi,<:ns  of  Ite  fehB™«  Amrds.;- 

OvlKlutaftcnlB.                                      1 

r^Xj«XC'''qSll™bU^rg™  ^S.'X' 

Aulpolollmufu',  nnLotrepldttranuniiHu,          '              1' 

CipisreBpulMoldinaant                   Pluu-t^ab.t.Sll.     ^^ 

Siwres'.;.'."  nna™., ,     h 

Hsit  nor  the  cruFi  (Doller  Kek>  ti»  prey.                     ^^H 
Nor  rulhlen  aimlM  loJie  Ihdr  itnadM  war,  ka.         ^^H 

lt»M^H 

•  Es'di^!-]    Th«  Ihiri  of  his  disciples,  whoilMlniaa 

nil  Whrk, eallUeil  Verlui  Aiirea.iviu  pnMlihed  In  }Sii.U 

'''stlv«ttr.]    AnolharofhUoatLUHtaHodAlei. 

•  in«m  ncu  Ml  Mf^)    BiUni  FmnclJi  bonad  hit  body  wMh 

_^ 

i 

^^^^■^■H 

83-113.  PARADISE,  Canto  XI.  461 

Of  Pietro  Bemardone,'  and  by  men 

In  wondrouB  sort  despised.     But  royally 

His  hard  intention  he  to  Innocent* 

Set  forth ;  and,  from  him,  first  received  the  seal 

On  his  religion.    Then,  when  numerous  flocked 

The  tribe  of  lowly  ones,  that  traced  his  steps, 

Whose  marvellous  life  deservedly  were  sung 

In  heights  empyreal ;  through  Honorius"  hand 

A  second  crown,  to  deck  their  Guardian's  virtues. 

Was  by  the  eternal  Spirit  inwreath'd :  and  when 

He  had,  through  thirst  of  martyrdom,  stood  up 

In  the  proud  Soldan's  presence,^  and  there  preach'd 

Christ  and  his  followers,  but  found  the  race 

Unripen'd  for  conversion  ;  back  once  more 

He  hasted,  (not  to  intermit  his  toil) 

And  reap'd  Ausonian  lands.    On  the  hard  rock,* 

*Twixt  Amo  and  the  Tiber,  he  from  Christ 

Took  the  last  signet,"  wliich  his  limbs  two  yean 

Did  carry.     Then,  tlie  season  come  that  he, 

Who  to  such  good  had  destined  him,  was  pleased 

To  advance  him  to  the  meed,  which  he  had  eam'd 

By  his  self-humbling ;  to  his  brotherhood, 

As  their  just  heritage,  he  ^ve  in  charge 

His  dearest  lady  i"*  and  enjoin'd  their  love 

And  faith  to  her  ;  and,  from  her  bosom,  wilKd 

His  goodly  spirit  should  move  forth,  returning 

To  its  appointed  kingdom ;  nor  would  have 

His  body^  laid  upon  another  bier. 

"  Think  now  of  one,  who  were  a  fit  colleague 
To  keep  the  bark  of  Peter,  in  deep  sea, 


1  Pietro  Benuirdone.]    A  man  in  an  humble  station  of  life 
at  Assisl. 
3  Innocent.]    Pope  Innocent  III. 

*  Honorius.]  His  Hnccessor  Honorlns  III.  who  granted  cer- 
tain privileges  to  the  Franciscans. 

*  In  the  proud  Soldan'e  presence.]  The  Soldan  of  Egypt, 
before  whom  Saint  Francis  is  said  to  have  preached. 

*  On  the  karttroek.]  The  mountain  Alvema  in  the  Apea- 
nine. 

*  The  last  signet.]    Alluding  to  the  stigmata,  or  marks  re 
sembling  the  wounds  of  Christ,  said  to  have  been  found  on 
tiie  saint*s  body. 

'  His  dearest  lady.]    Poverty. 

6  His  bodtf.]  He  forbade  any  funeral  pomp  to  be  observed  at 
his  burial ;  and,  as  it  is  said,  ordered  that  his  remains  should 
be  deposited  in  a  place  where  criminals  were  executed  and 
interred. 


463  THE  VISION. 

Helm'il  to  right  point ;  and  audi  our  Paiiian 
Therefora  who  follow  him  ns  he  enjoins, 

'  1,  taXe  good  lading  in. 


Must  B])read  then 
The  Mraggli^iB  wander,  so  mocli  more  tliejr  com* 
Home,  lu  tliB  aheep-fbld,  deBtiluLe  of  luilk. 
There  are  ol  tbem,  in  troth,  who  fear  their  hum, 
And  to  tlie  Bhephard  cleave  ;  bot  these  so  few, 
A  little  fltiiff  may  faiaiiili  out  their  cloaks. 

"  Now,  if  tny  worda  be  clear ;  if  Ibon  liave  la'fin 
Good  lieed;  if  that,  wliiuh  I  have  told,  recoil 
To  miud ;  thy  wisli  may  be  in  part  fiilfiU'd ; 
,   For  thou  wilt  eve  Ilio  ]riant  from  wheuce  the;  tplil  I* 
And  he  shall  see,  who  girds  hioi,  what  that  ineBjs,' 
'  That  well  they  thrive,  iiot  swoln  with  vanity.'" 

CANTO    XII. 

ARGUMENT. 

aVBnlum,  who  li  one  (H*  Ibeiu.  csJetimlo  Uie  r">l« '' 
Halnt  Dominic,  anil  iitbrou  Danie  who  the  uOuit  elevN 
BIB.  Uul  ue  in  IhiB  «earad  eitcio  gr  prlanil. 
Soon  OB  its  final  word  the  blessod  Same' 
Had  raisi-d  for  utterance,  atrajghl  the  holy  mill' 
Begna  to  wheel ;  nor  yet  had  once  revolved. 
Or  ere  another,  circling,  compnsa'd  it. 
Motion  to  motion,  song  to  rang,  conjiMnmg  ; 
Song,  that  ns  much  our  muees  doth  excel. 
Our  Syrens  with  Iheir  tuneful  pipes,  as  ray 


Aquioube 


riarcJL.1    I 


•Jti  the  Domldtcuu  ufiglocl  (o  a^ 
I  iksU  ase,  wKa  eirdi  Un.  vital 


»-38.  PARADISE,  Canto  XII.  463 

Of  primal  flplendor  doth  its  faint  reflex. 

As  when,  if  Juno  bid  her  handmaid  forth, 
Two  arches  parallel,  and  trick'd  alike, 
Span  the  thin  cloud,  the  outer  taking  birth 
From  that  within,  (in  manner  of  that  Toice* 
Whom  love  did  melt  away,  as  sun  the  mist,) 
And  they  who  gaze,  presageful  call  to  mind 
The  compact  made  with  Noah,  of  the  world 
No  more  to  be  o'erflow*d ;  about  us  thus. 
Of  sempiternal  roses,  bending,  wreathed 
Those  garlands  twain  ;  and  to  the  innermost 
E*en  thus  the  external  answer'd     When  the  footing, 
Ajid  other  great  festivity,  of  song, 
Ajid  radiance,  light  with  light  accordant,  each 
Jocund  and  blithe,  had  at  their  pleasure  still'd, 
(E'en  as  the  eyes,  by  quick  volition  moved. 
Are  shut  and  raised  together,)  from  the  heart 
Of  one'  among  the  new  lights'  moved  a  voice. 
That  made  me  seem^  like  needle  to  the  star, 
In  turning  to  its  whereabout ;'  and  thus 
Began :  "  The  love,"  that  makes  me  beautiful. 


>  In  manner  of  that  voice.']  One  rainbow  givlnir  back  the 
image  of  the  other,  as  sound  is  reflected  by  Echo,  that 
nymph  who  was  molted  away  by  her  fondness  for  Narcissus, 
as  vapor  is  melted  by  the  sun.  The  reader  will  observe  in 
the  text  not  only  a  second  and  third  simile  witiiin  the  flrst, 
but  two  mythological  and  one  sacred  allusion  bound  up  to- 

Sther  with  the  whole.  Even  after  this  accumulation  of 
lagery,  the  two  circles  of  spirits,  by  whom  Beatrice  and 
Dante  were  encompassed,  are  by  a  bold  flguro  termed  two 
garlands  of  never-mdlng  roses.  Indeed,  there  is  a  fUlnexs 
of  splendor,  even  to  (Hrodigality,  throughout  the  beginning  of 
this  Canto. 

s  One-I  Saint  Buonaventura,  general  of  the  Franciscan 
(nrder,  in  which  he  effected  some  reformation;  and  one  of  the 
most  profound  divines  of  his  age.  •'  He  refused  the  archbish- 
opric of  York,  which  was  offered  him  by  Clement  IV.,  but 
afterwards  was  prevailed  on  to  accept  the  bishopric  of  Alba- 
no  and  a  cardinal's  hat.  He  was  born  at  Bagnoregio  or  Bag- 
norea,  in  Tuscany,  A.  D.  1221,  and  died  in  1274."  Diet.  His 
tar.  par  Chaudon  et  Delandine.  Ed.  Lyon.  1804. 

s  Among  the  new  lights.]  In  the  circle  that  had  newly  sur- 
rounded the  flrst. 

*  That  made  me  seem.]  "  That  made  me  turn  to  it,  as  the 
magnetic  needle  does  to  the  polo." 

•  To  its  whereabout.]    Al  suo  dove. 

The  very  stones  prate  of  my  whereabout. 

Shakspeare^  Macbeth,  act  ii.  sc.  I. 
«  T%e  love.]    By  an  act  of  mutual  courtesy,  Buonaventura, 
a  Franciscan,  is  made  to  proclaim  the  praises  of  St.  Dominic, 
as  Thomas  Aquinaa,  a  Dominican,  has  celebrated  XYiow  ol 


i64  TFE  VISION.  a»-5 

PrompU  me  lo  tell  of  tho  other  guide,  far  wfaom 
Sucb  goud  of  mine  is  spoken.     Where  one  is, 
The  otber  worthily  sbould  also  be  ; 
That  BS  tbeir  woifsie  vat  alike,  alike 
Should  be  tbeir  glory.     Ston,  and  full  of  doobt, 
And  with  tbia  rankH,  oilpr  Hb  banner  moved 
The  army  of  Chrieti  (wbieh  it  so  dearly  cost 
To  reappoint,)  when  its  imperial  Hsad, 
Who  reigueth  ever,  for  the  drooping  host 
Did  make  provision,  thoroogh  grace  alone, 
And  not  tbrougli  its  deserving.     At  tlion  heud'M,' 
Two  ohampLonB  to  the  Bucuor  of  bis  Bpou» 
He  sent,  who  by  tbeir  deeds  and  won^  might  jUa 
Again  bis  acatter^d  people.     In  that  climer 
Where  springs  the  pleasant  west-wind  to  onfoM 
The  fresh  leaves,  with  which  Europe  sees  benelf 
New-gnrmonteil ;  nor  [rora  those  billows'  far, 
Beyond  whose  chiding,  at\er  weary  course, 
The  BUQ  doth  sometimea*  hide  him  ;  safe  alndea 
The  happy  Callarogn,*  under  guard 
Of  the  great  shield,  wherein  the  lioo  liea 
Subjected  and  sapleme.     And  there  was  Iwni 
The  loving  minion  of  the  ChrisliuD  faith,' 

longed. 
Even  Mscehiayelli.  no  greil  Mend  lo  Ibe  cbnnh.  UUUiUM 


pie  uf  oui  relijioB.  wlilcli,  if  II  hnd  nol  bsen  dnwn  bus 
Id  piioupte  bv  BI.  Fiaocii  nnd  SI.  Daminlc,  would  be  oall 
eidngolsheit," 
i^tHumlHimril.]    eeelbelHitCBnlo,r.33. 

>  Tien  mii^ici.l    ThoAOmtle. 

•  Si}iiutiiiua.]    Daring  the  lummar  solatics. 

i  Callara^a.]    Belween  Osms  ud  Arsnda,  In  (»dOi 

•TkrhrnfmntisnefHicairitllaiftilk.]    DonlBlc  M 
bom  April  5,  1170.  and  died  Aogotl  G.  IKtl.     His  UrthplSf* 


^ 


.    ecrlplom  Ordloli  I 


S-TS.  PAEADI8E,  Cum  XIL  46S 

The  halliMi-'d  wrestler,  gcnlle'  to  hil  own. 

And  to  bi»  tiitniiea  Icrnblt-.     So  replele 

Hi»  Hiul  with  lively  virtue,  lliut  iviicn  iitst 

Created,  evau  m  tliu  molhet'H  womb,' 

It  propheaied.     Wlitu,  -at  tlm  rocred  fout, 

Tbe  HpouBuIa  were  complete  'twlit  faitli  and  him, 

Where  pledge  of  mutual  Bafety  waa  esehmiged, 

TiiB  dame,'  who  was  hiB  surety,  in  her  sleep 

Beheld  the  wondiouB  fruit,  that  niu  from  him 

And  from  his  beiis  to  issue.     And  thnt  such 

He  might  be  coaalrucd   an  indeed  he  WM, 

VVIiose  he  wb«  wliolly     aud  so  called  him  Dominic. 
And  I  speak  of  hioi,  im  the  laborer. 
Whom  Clmst  in  hia  own  garden  clioiM  to  be 
His  help-male.     Measenger  he  seem'd,  and  friend 
Fast-knit  to  Christ ;  and  the  HfBt  iove  he  show'd, 
Waa  after  the  first  oounsc^l*  that  Christ  gaTO. 
Many  a  time'  hia  nurM,  at  entering,  fouud 
That  he  had  riaeu  iu  silence,  and  was  proalrate, 
As  who  should  nay,  '  My  errand  waa  for  tliia.' 
O  happy  father  I  Felii'  rightly  named. 
O  favor'd  mother  '.  rightly  named  Joallllft ; 
If  that  do  ntba,  as  men  interpret  it. 


It  hc^foli,  ml  tO,tieir  (iucvi). 
ir  lo  IhoK.  that  lored  him  noc 


Um,  ii  oM  In  Iiave  lireaired  lUCibe  should  brTnc  ffltlh  a 
while  and  Mack  dofi  ivilb    Itghieil  torch  Id  hli  moeUi,  nhlrh 

TUJijxc]    HiiEodaioIher'silrBaniwBi.lhalhshBdniu 

•.4/brUijtr»».s.^.I      Jenunld^Dtolilni.irihoawtll 


Dftea  ftwBd  that  bs  had  left  Us  bed,  and  wi 
la  prayer. 

'  Ji  mm  inurpra  it.]    Grace  oi  gUI  of  Ih( 


\ 


3 


MrlJP.  PARADISE,  Canto  XII.  467 

And,  daahingr  'jrainst  the  stocks  of  heresy. 
Smote  fiercest,  where  resistance  was  most  stoat 
Thence  many  riyulets  have  since  been  tum'd, 
Over  the  garden  catholic  to  lead 
Their  living  waters,  and  have  fed  its  plants. 

"  If  such,  one  wheel'  of  that  two-yoked  car, 
Wherein  the  holy  church  defended  her. 
And  rode  triumphant  through  the  civil  broil ; 
Thou  canst  not  doubt  its  fellow's  excellence. 
Which  Thomas,*  ere  my  coming,  hath  declared 
So  courteoudy  unto  thee.     But  the  track," 
Which  its  smooth  felloes  made,  is  now  deserted : 
Tliat,  mouldy  mother  is,  where  late  were  lees. 
His  family,  that  wont  to  trace  his  path, 
Tom  backward,  and  invert  their  steps ;  ere  long 
To  rue  the  gathering  in  of  their  ill  crop. 
When  the  rejected  tares^  in  vain  shall  ask 
Admittance  to  the  bam.     I  question  not' 
But  he,  who  searched  our  volume,  leaf  by  leaf. 
Might  still  find  page  with  this  inscription  on*t, 
'  I  am  as  I  was  wont'    Yet  such  were  not 
From  Acquasparta  nor  Casale,  whence. 
Of  those  who  come  to  meddle  with  the  text, 
One  stretches  and  another  cramps  its  rule. 
Bonaventura's  life  in  me  behold. 
From  Bagnoregio ;  one,  who,  in  discharge 
Of  my  great  offices,  still  laid  aside 
All  fdnister  aim.     Illuminato  here. 
And  Agostiuo*  join  me :  two  they  were. 
Among  the  first  of  those  barefooted  meek  ones, 

1  One  tohed.']    Dominic ;  as  the  other  wheel  Is  Francis, 
s  Thomas.}    Thomas  Aquinas. 

*  But  the  track.\  **  Bat  the  rule  of  St.  Francis  i&  already 
deserted :  and  the  lees  of  the  wine  are  turned  into  mooldi- 
ness." 

*  Tares.]  He  adverts  to  the  parable  of  the  tares  and  the 
wheat 

*  /  queetion  not.]  "  Some  indeed  might  be  found,  who  still 
observe  the  rule  of  the  order :  but  such  would  come  neither 
firom  Casale  nor  Acquasparta."  At  Casale,  in  Monferrat, 
the  discipline  had  been  enforced  by  Uberto  with  unneces- 
sary rigor;  and  at  Acquasparta,  in  the  territory  of  Todi,  it 
had  been  equally  relaxed  by  the  Cardinal  Matteo,  general 
of  the  order.  Lucas  Waddingus,  as  cited  by  Lombardi,  cor- 
rects the  errors  of  the  commentators  who  had  confounded 
these  two. 

*  — —  Jllnminato  here^ 
.  And  JSgoatmo.]    Two  among  the  earliest  followers  of  St 

Ftancis. 


468  Tire  VISION.  m-m. 

Who  sought   God'a   friendaliip   in   the  card:  with 
them 

i'  Pietro  Mangindoro  ^ 


»■.]    1 


8I0N.  1S4-138.  I 

Miip   in   the  card:  with         I 

Pietro  Mangindoro  ^       ^^^M 
cive  volumes  shiuing;   ^^H 

nSirto  niAkct  him  of  PatIi;         T 
d  LomlunJl.  fDllnwlnB  Aln- 


bDoki,  UlQtUatlvB  i>f  iht  EolevUnL  MemrebfdflHoaTBlnttiis 
AnnpngilE.  Qcr-fmUnf  lo  tbe  tniulaUoci  oT  Joannes  Seoioi, 
are  InscriMd  id  King  LooU,  ua  of  LadIi  le  Onu.  by  irtwa 
lbs  loonulinj  had  beea  fouaded.  Ojiera  Sai.  de  8.  Vkt. 
ta\.  Piuli.  Liise,  UUP.  i.  3i».    "  A  nun  dliUagoLhed  *j  flu 


Dd  proboa  erodiSan  ItuI  wen 


bnrch  of  Peril.    Ha  roHngultlwd  Ih 


I  ihall  have  omuloa  lo  clle  la  Iha  Ham  H 

.]  "  To  Pajie  Adilan  V.  ancciwle 

especially  In  lorl':  and  °n  uwd 
n  tlie  anme  of  Pewr  nf  Bpaln 

parum  1>  nlenad  to  ie  Browa'a  \ 

d  lotm  SSI, 

ii2 

*  Cirfmtlom.i    The  elnqooBl  patriarch  of  d 
aetery  of  Bva  In  Normandv,  wbne  be  anarwudi  ^ — "* 

pjxhblBboprlcH  vacant  by  the  death  of  LanAanc  Ve 
lhl>  dliplty  nil  bij  deaUi.  In  1109,  thoueh  11  wu  fflili 
many  dluenalodii  wilh  Wllllain  II.  and  tleniy  ]..  n 

bnmnnltlM  and  InTMtlrarei,    The™  U  much  deMb . 

eldoa  in  his  IbeoldfrtfJil  world."  T'tnOBaiM,  etrr.Mlttt 


J89-135.  PARADISE,  Canto  XIII.  460 

To  put  his  hand  to  the  first  art,  Donatus.* 

Haban"  is  here  ;  and  at  my  side  there  shines 

Calabria's  abbot,  Joachim,'  endowed 

With  soul  prophetic.     The  bright  courtesy 

Of  friar  Thomas  and  his  goodly  lore. 

Have  moved  me  to  the  blazon  of  a  peer* 

So  worthy ;  and  with  me  have  moved  this  throng.' 


CANTO  XIII. 


f> 


ARGUMENT. 

Thomas  Aqninas  resumes  his  speech.  He  solves  the  other 
of  those  doubts  which  he  discerned  in  the  mind  of  Dante, 
and  warns  him  earnestly  against  assenting  to  any  proposi- 
tion without  having  duly  examined  it. 

Let  him,*  who  would  conceive  what  now  I  say. 
Imagine,  (and  retain  the  image  firm 
Ab  mountain  rock,  the  whilst  he  hears  me  speak,) 
Of  stars,  fifteen,  from  midst  the  ethereal  host 


Ibid.,  c.  V.  "  It  is  an  observation  made  by  many  modem 
writers,  that  the  demonstration  of  the  existence  of  God, 
taken  from  the  idea  of  a  Supreme  Being,  of  which  Des  Cartes 
is  thought  to  be  the  author,  was  so  many  ages  bacic  discover- 
ed and  brought  to  light  by  Anselm.  Leibnitz  himself  makes 
the  remarlE,  vol.  v.  Oper.,  p.  570.  Edit.  Genev.  1768." 

1  Donatus.]  iElius  Donatus,  the  grammarian,  in  the  fourth 
century,  one  of  the  preceptors  of  St.  Jerome. 
So  Fazio  degii  Uberti,  Uittamondo,  lib.  ii.  cap.  13. 

•  In  questo  tempo  Donato  vivea, 
Che  delle  arti  in  si  breve  volume 
L'uscio  n'aperse  e  la  prima  scalca. 

*  Raban.]  "  He  was  made  Archbishop  of  Mentz  in  847. 
His  Latino-Theotische  Glossary  of  the  Bible  is  still  preserved 
in  the  imperial  library  at  Vienna.  See  Lambesius,  Comment. 
de  Bibl.,  lib.  U.  pp.  416  and  932."  Oray'8  fVorks,  4to.  Lond. 
1814,  vol.  ii.  p.  33. 

^'Rabanus  Maurus,  Archbishop  of  Mentz,  is  deservedly 
placed  at  the  head  of  the  Latin  writers  of  this  age."  Mosheim^ 
V.  ii.  cent.  ix.  p.  2,  c.  2,  ^  14. 

s  Joachim.']  Abbot  of  Flora  in  Calabria ;  "  whom  the  mul- 
titude revered  as  a  person  divinely  inspired,  and  equal  to  the 
most  illustrious  prophets  of  ancient  times."  Mosheim,  v.  iii. 
cent.  xiii.  p.  2,  c.  2,  $  33. 

*  A  peer.]    St.  Dominic. 

»  Let  him.]  "  Whoever  would  conceive  the  sight  that  now 
presented  itself  to  me,  must  imagine  to  himself  fifteen  of  the 
brightest  stars  in  heaven,  together  with  seven  stars  of  Arctu- 
ms  Major  and  two  of  Arcturus  Minor,  ranged  in  two  circles, 
one  within  the  other,  each  resembling  the  crown  of  Ariadne, 
and  moving  round  in  oppoahte  directions." 


470 


THE  VISION. 


Selected,  that,  with  Uvely  i&y  lerene, 

O'ereoma  tim  mataen  air:  thereto  imagine 

Tlie  wain,  that,  in  Uie  boMin  of  oiir  sky, 

SpioB  ever  OD  ila  axle  night  au<l  day. 

With  the  bright  Buinmlt  of  thai  horn,  which  swell 

Due  from  the  pole,  round  which  the  firat  wheel  n 

To  have  ranged  themsolvEs  in  faahion  of  two  sign 

In  hOBTen.  Hlich  aa  Ariadne  made. 

When  death's  cbiU  seized  her;  and  that  one  of  Ih 

Uid  cDmpaee  in  the  other's  beam  ;  and  both 

In  Bucb  sort  whirl  around,  that  each  shoutd  tend 

With  oppoeitB  [notion:  and,  conceiving  Ihoa, 

Of  that  true  conMollation,  and  the  dance 

Twofold,  that  circled  me,  he  ehall  attain 

As  'twere  the  flhuduw  ;  for  things  there  as  much 

Surpas  our  usage,  hb  t)ie  swiflest  heuven 

Is  swifter  than  the  Cliiatio.'     There  was  sung 

No  Bacchus,  and  no  lo  Fa^on,  but 

Three  Persoiu  in  the  Godhead,  and  in  one 

Penwn  that  nature  and  the  human  joiu'd. 

The  BDng  and  round  were  meaaured :  and  to  ui 
Thoee  saintly  lights  attended,  happier  made 
At  each  new  ministering.     Then  silence  brake 
Amid  the  accordant  sons  of  Deity, 
That  luniioary,'  in  which  the  wondrous  lite 
Ot  the  meek  man  of  God'  was  told  lo  mo ; 
And  thus  it  spake ;  "Oueear*  o'lhe  harFestthrcdi'ill 
And  its  grain  safely  stored,  sweet  charity 
loTilefl  me  with  the  other  to  Uke  toil. 

"  Thon  know'sl,  that  in  the  bosom,'  whence  the  [ib 
Was  ta'en  lo  fashion  that  fair  cheek,  whose  tsstu 
AJI  the  world  pays  for  ;  and  in  that,  which  pierced    ■ 
By  (he  keen  lance,  both  after  and  before 


'  Tic  auii, 


i;  aimarJi  w^om 


Balnf  FrandA.    Bee  Chj 
llVBd  one  of  Lby  qncfltioliH,  E  m 

Than  Ihlnkeii  Uwa  Ibat  Adua 
led  with  alltbopertbclioa  DTvMcb 


M««t__l 

1 


J8-§».  PARADISE,  Caitto  Xin.  471 

Such  mtiBfactkni  offered  aa  oatweigfas 
Each  evil  in  the  scale ;  whatever  of  light 
To  human  natore  is  allow'd,  most  all 
Haye  by  hia  virtue  been  infuaed,  who  form'd 
Both  one  and  other :  and  thou  thence  admireat 
In  that  I  told  thee,  of  beatitudes, 
A  second  there  is  none  to  him  enclosed 
In  the  fifth  radiance.     Open  now  thine  eyes 
To  what  I  answer  thee  ;  and  thou  shalt  see 
Thy  deeming  and  my  saying  meet  in  truth, 
As  centre  in  the  romid.     That^  which  dies  not, 
And  that  which  can  die,  are  but  each  the  beam 
Of  that  klea,  which  our  Sovereign  Sire 
Engendereth  loving ;  for  that  lively  light  f 
Which  passeth  from  his  sj^endor,  not  disjoined 
From  him,  nor  from  his  love  triune  with  them," 
Doth,  throng  his  bounty,  congregate  itself, 
Mirrored,  as  'twere,  iu  new  existences  ;* 
Itself  unalterable,  and  ever  one. 

"  Descending  hence  unto  the  lowest  powers,* 
Its  energy  so  sinks,  at  last  it  makes 
But  brief  contingencies  ;  for  so  I  name 
Things  generated,  whicli  the  heavenly  orbs 
Moving,  with  seed  or  without  seed,  produce. 
Their  wax,  and  that  which  moulds  it,"  differ  much : 
And  thence  with  lustre,  more  or  less,  it  shows 
The  ideal  stamp  impress'd :  so  that  one  tree. 
According  to  his  kind,  hath  better  fruit. 
And  worse  :  and,  «t  your  birth,  ye,  mortal  men, 
Are  in  your  talents  various.     Were  the  wax 
Moulded  with  nice  exactness,  and  the  heaven'' 
In  its  disposing  influence  supreme, 

1  That.]  "Things,  corruptible  and  incorruptible,  are  only 
emanations  from  the  archetypal  idea  residing  in  the  Divine 
Mind." 

*  Ligkt.]    The  Word :  the  Son  of  God. 

*  His  love  triune  vfith  them.]    The  Holy  Ghost. 

*  JVeio  existences.]  Angels  and  human  souls.  If  we  roail 
with  some  editions  and  many  MSS.  "nove"  instead  of 
"  nuove,'*  it  should  be  rendered  ''  nine  existences,"  and  then 
means  "  the  nine  heavens ;"  and  this  reading  is  approved  by 
Lombardi,  Biagioli,  and  Monti.  In  the  terms  "  sussistenze/' 
and  "  contingenze,"  "  existences  and  contingencies,"  Danto 
follows  the  language  of  the  scholastic  writers,  which  I  have 
endeavored  to  preserve. 

A  The  lotoest powers.]    Irrational  life  and  brute  matter 
«  Their  wax,  and  that  which  movlds  it.]    Matter,  and  the 
vhrtue  or  energy  that  acts  on  it. 
f  The  heaven.)   The  influence  of  the  planetary  bod\.e%. 


472  THE  VISION.  70-04. 

Ths  biighineea  of  the  seal*  should  h«  compktp : 
But  nature  mode™  il  imperfect  over; 
RflBembling  Ibu9  the  nrtirt,  in  her  work, 
Whuae  fullering  hand  »  i^hlera  to  his  skill. 
Therefore,'  if  ferrent  loyo  diaposo,  and  mark 
The  lualrona  image  of  the  primal  virtup. 
There  &II  perfection  is  yoophsafed  ;  and  sneh 
The  clay'  wai  made,  accomplish'd  with  each  pfl, 
That  life  can  teem  with  ;  such  the  buideo  Rll'd 
The  virgin's  bosom  :  so  thel  I  commend 
Thy  jndgment,  thai  the  human  nature  ne'er 
Was,  or  can  be,  such  as  in  them  il  wok. 

■'  Did  I  Ddvance  no  further  than  this  poml ; 
'  How  then  bad  he  no  peerT'  Ihoii  might's!  replf. 
Bui,  Ihat  what  now  appeajB  not,  may  appear 
Uigbt  plainly,  ponder,  who  he  was,  and  what 
(When  be  was  hidden,  '  Ask,'}  the  motive,  sway'd 
To  his  requesting.     I  have  spoken  thus, 
That  lliou  mayst  see,  he  was  a  king,  who  wk'd* 
For  wisdnra,  to  the  end  he  might  be  king 
SufKoieiit:  not,  the  number'  to  search  oat 
or  the  celestial  movun;  or  lo  know. 
If  necessarj''  wiOi  contingenl  e'er 
Have  made  necMwly  ;'or  whether  that 
Bo  granted,  that  firal  motion''  is  ;  or  if. 


"  Tkmfure.']  DmiIeHo,  bh] 
pidty  in  reimrWiig  Ihsl  or 
Besfiiptlon  oT  Ibv  Trinlly: 


iial.]   The  brl(bUi«u  QflhsIHiW.'B 

,wiy9l>]inbqnll.liu  ahownblliW 

anr  Poet  Inlcndi  Ihli  An  ■  bfM 

Inllr:  the  prtmi.)  virtno  >ignlMn|  tt> 

Ittage.  Ibe  Sun:  Uie  ferveal  loi«,Al 


rf 

kingly  ofltar." 

•iiantir.i    Thb  qnestioB  Is  d 

cmaed  by  onrl 

'V 

urtlyln».wUI> 

m 

'  ri<U/r«  ««iiM.]    "Hwi 


05-121.  PARADISE,  Canto  XIII.  473 

Of  the  mid  circle,*  can  by  art  be  made 
Triangle,  with  its  comer  blunt  or  sharp. 

"  Whence,  noting  that,  which  I  have  said,  and  this. 
Thou  kingly  prudence  and  that  ken"  mayst  learn, 
At  which  the  dart  of  my  intention  aims. 
And,  marking  clearly,  that  I  told  thee, '  Risen,' 
Thou  shalt  discem  it  only  hath  respect 
To  kings,  of  whom  are  many,  and  the  good 
Are  rare.     With  this  distinction  take  my  words ; 
And  they  may  well  consist  with  that  which  thou 
Of  the  first  human  father  dost  believe, 
And  of  our  well-beloved.     And  lot  this 
Henceforth  be  lead  unto  thy  feet,  to  make 
Thee  slow  in  motion,  as  a  weary  man. 
Both  to  the  *  yea'  and  to  the  *  nay'  thou  seest  not 
For  he  among  the  fools  is  down  full  low, 
Whose  affirmation,  or  denial,'  is 
Without  distinction,  in  each  case  alike. 
Since  it  befalls,  that  in  most  instances 
Current  opinion  leans  to  false :  and  then 
Afiectlon  bends  the  judgment  to  her  ply. 

"  Much  more  than  vainly  doth  he  loose  from  shore. 
Since  he  returns  not  such  as  he  set  forth. 
Who  fishes  for  the  truth  and  wanteth  skill. 
And  open  proofs  of  this  unto  the  world 
Have  been  afibrded  in  Parmenides, 
Melissus,  Bryso,^  and  the  crowd  bcuside, 

1  Of  the  mid  eirde.]  "  If  in  the  half  of  the  circle  a  recti- 
linear triangle  can  be  described,  one  side  of  which  shall  be 
the  diameter  of  the  same  circle,  without  Its  forming  a  right 
angle  with  the  other  two  sides ;  which  geometry  shows  to 
be  impossible."    Lombardi. 

9  Ukat  ken.]    See  Canto  z.  110. 

>  fVhoae  affirmation  or  denial.] 

TiSv  yap  Spri  SeivSrepa  av  ris  SfioXoy^aeitt  fifi  irpocr^wv 
To7s  b^Haci  Tdv  vodif,  p  roiroXv  cidhfieda  lf>dvai  rt  kolL  Airap- 
vticVai,  Plato.  Thectetus.,  Ed.  Bip.,  v.  ii.  p.  97.  "  For  any 
one  might  make  yet  absurider  concessions  than  these,  not 
paying  strict  attention  to  terras,  according  to  the  way,  in 
which  we  are  for  the  most  part  accu^ttomed  both  to  afiurm 
and  to  deny." 

* PamunideSf 

JtelistUB,  Bryao.] 

For  the  singular  opinions  entertained  by  the  two  former  of 
these  heathen  philosophers,  see  Diogenes  Laertius,  lib.  ix., 
and  Aristot.  de  Ccelo,  lib.  iii.  cap.  i.,  and  Phys.,  lib.  i.  cap.  ii. 
The  last  is  also  twice  adduced  by  Aristotle,  (Anal.  Post.,  lib.  i. 
cap.  ix.,  and  Rhet,  lib.  iii.  cap.  ii.,)  as  affording  instances  of 
false  reasoning.  Our  Poet  refers  to  the  philosopher's  refuta- 
don  of  them  in  the  De  Monarchift,  lib.  111.  p.  138.  ^ee  «\v» 
Plato  in  the  Tbeaetetus,  the  Sophist,  and  the  PaimeTi^^ieft. 


474 


yd  on 


THE  VISION, 
uid  knew  not  i 


Who  joumciy'd 

SabelliuBf  Ariufi/  auu  \im  uiiici  iuuib, 
Wbo,  like  (D  cimeten'  reQected  buck 
The  leriplure-iniagB  by  diatorlion  marr'd. 

'^  Let  not  the  people  be  loo  Hwift  to  jodge ; 
Ai  one  wbo  reckons  on  Iha  blades  in  field, 
Or  o'er  the  crop  be  ripe.  For  I  have  eeen 
Tlie  tbom  frown  rudely  all  the  wmtei  long-, 
And  ttftet  bear  the  rage  upon  its  top ; 
And  bark,  tbut  all  her  way  acrosa  tho  sea 
Ran  straight  aud  speedy,  perish  at  the  last 

Another  bring  hia  oftering'  to  the  prieal, 
Let  not"  Dama  Birlha  and  Su'  Martin'  Oience 
Is  deem  that  they  can  pry: 
le  of  these  may  rise,  Uie  other  fall." 


7-45.  PARADISE,  Canto  XIV.  475 

And  Beatrice,  after  him,  her  words 

Resumed  alternate :  "  Need  there  is  (though  yet 

He  tells  it  to  you  not  in  words,  nor  e'en 

In  thought)  that  he  should  fathom  to  its  depth 

Another  mystery.     Tell  him,  if  the  light,  [you 

Wherewith  your  substance  blooms,  i^aU  stay  with 

Eternally,  as  now ;  and,  if  it  doth. 

How,  when'  ye  shall  regain  your  visible  forms, 

The  sight  may  without  hann  endure  the  change, 

That  also  tell."     As  those,  who  in  a  ring 

Tread  the  light  measure,  in  their  fitful  mirth 

Raise  loud  the  voice,  and  spring  with  gladder  bound; 

Thus,  at  the  hearing  of  that  pious  suit, 

The  saintly  circles,  in  their  tournaying 

And  wondrous  note,  attested  new  delight. 

Whoso  laments,  that  we  must  doff  this  garb 
Of  frail  mortality,  thenceforth  to  live 
Immortally  above ;  he  hath  not  seen 
The  sweet  refreshing  of  that  heavenly  shower.' 

Him,'  who  lives  ever,  and  for  ever  reigns 
In  mystic  union  of  the  Three  in  One, 
Unbounded,  bounding  all,  each  spirit  thrice 
Sang,  with  such  melody,  as,  but  to  hear. 
For  highest  merit  were  an  ample  meed. 
And  from  the  lesser  orb  the  goodliest  light  ,^ 
With  gentle  voice  and  mild,  such  as  perhaps 
The  angel's  once  to  Mary,  thus  replied : 
"  Long  as  the  joy  of  Paradise  shall  last. 
Our  love  shall  shine  around  that  raiment,  bright 
As  fervent ;  fervent  as,  ia  vision,  blest ; 
And  that  as  far,  in  blessedness,  exceeding, 
As  it  hath  grace,  beyond  its  virtue,  great. 
Our  shape,  regarmeuted  with  glorious  weeds 
Of  saintly  flesh,  must,  being  thus  entire. 
Show  yet  more  gracious.     Therefore  shall  increase 
Whate'er,  of  light,  gratuitous  imparts 
The  Supreme  Good ;  light,  ministering  aid, 
The  better  to  disclose  his  glory ;  whence. 
The  vision  needs  increasing,  must  increase 


1  fVhen.]  When  ye  shall  be  again  clothed  with  your  bod- 
ies at  the  resurrection. 

3  TViat  heavenly  shower.]    That  effusion  of  beatific  light. 

«  Him.]  Literally  translated  by  Chaucer,  Troilus  and 
Cresseide,  book  v. 

Thou  one,  two,  and  throe  eterne  on  live, 
That  raignest  ale  in  three,  two,  and  one, 
Uncircumscript,  and  all  moist  clrconscrlve. 

<  1^ g'oodliest  lijfkt.}    Solomon. 


476  THE  VISIOX.  «-! 

The  ienoi,  wluch  it  kindles ;  snd  tbat  too 
The  my,  Ihal  comsB  from  il.     But  as  Ibe  gleed 
Whicb  gives  out  flame,  yet  in  its  whitenem  shiiieB 
More  livelily  than  thai,  and  so  presenes 
Ita  proper  semblance ;  tbus  this  circling  sphere 
Of  B^^eudor  shall  lo  view  leas  radiant  Beem, 
Than  shall  our  Seshly  robe,  which  yonder  siith 
Now  covens.     Nor  will  such  eicoss  of  light 
O'ejpower  us,  in  corporeal  organs  made 
Firm,  aud  suaceplibie  of  all  dehght." 

So  ready  and  so  cordial  an  "  Amon" 
Follow'd  from  either  elioir,  as  pliunly  spoke 
Desire  of  their  dead  bodira ;  yet  porohanee 
Not  for  llieniselvBH,  but  for  their  kindred  dear, 
MolhocB  aud  airse,  and  those  whom  best  they  loToJi 
Ere  they  wore  made  iniperiahable  flame. 

And  lo  I  forthwLtli  there  rose  ap  round  sbool 
A  lustre,  over  Ihal  already  there  ; 
Of  equal  oleamBBa,  like  the  biightentug  up 
Of  the  horizon.    As  at  evenitig  hour 
Of  twilight,  Dew  appearances  through  beavea 
Peer  with  faint  glinuner,  doubtfully  descried ; 
So,  there,  new  substancps,  molhougbl,  began 
To  rise  in  view  beyond  the  other  twain,  _ 

And  wheeling,  eweep  their  ampler  circuit  wide.  1 

O  geniiine  glitter  of  eternal  Beam  '. 
With  what  a  sudden  wbltenese  did  it  flow, 
O'erpowering  vieion  in  me.     But  so  fair. 
So  passing  lovdy,  Beatrice  show'd, 
Mind  cannot  ibllow  it,  nor  words  expresa 
Her  inlinite  eweetneo.     Thence  mine  eyes 
Power  to  look  up ;  and  I  beheld  myself^ 
Sole  with  my  lady,  tn  more  lolly  blisH* 
Translated ;  for  the  star,  with  warmer  snuls 
Jmpnrpled,  well  denoted  our  ascenL 

With  all  the  heart,  and  with  that  longua  i 


ThoBB 

To  God,  befiltmg  the  new  grace  Touehssi'ed- 
And  from  my  biBom  bad  not  yet  npsteam'd 
The  fuming  of  that  incense,  when  I  knew 
The  rite  accepted.     With  such  mighty  alieen 
And  mantling  crimson,  in  two  listed  rays 
The  splendors  shot  before  me,  tliat  I  cried, 
"  God  of  Sahaoth  '.  that  doet  prank  them  thus!" 
As  leads  the  galaxy  from  pole  to  pole. 


91-108.  PARADISE,  Casto  XIV.  477 

DistingnishM  into  greater  lights  and  leas, 
Its  pathway,'  which  the  wisest  fail  to  spell ; 
So  thickly  studded,  in  the  depth  of  Mars, 
Those  rajTB  described  the  venerable  sign,* 
That  quadrants  in  the  round  conjoining  frame. 

Here  memofy  mociu  the  toil  of  genius.    Christ 
Beam'd  on  that  cross ;  and  pattern  fails  me  now. 
But  whoso  takes  his  cross,  and  follows  Christ, 
Will  pardon  me  for  that  I  leave  untold. 
When  in  the  flecker'd  dawning  he  shall  spy 
The  glitterance  of  Christ.     From  horn  to  horn. 
And  'tween  the  summit  and  the  base,  did  move 
Lights,  scintillathig,  as  they  met  and  passed. 
Thus  oft  are  seen  with  ever-changeful  glance. 
Straight  or  athwart,  now  rapid  and  now  slow, 
The  atomies  of  bodies,'  long  or  short, 
To  move  along  the  sunbeam,  whose  slant  line 
Checkers  the  shadow  interposed  by  art 

1  Its  patktoaj/.]  See  the  Convito,  p.  74.  "  E  da  sapere,  &c.** 
*'It  must  be  known,  that,  concerning  the  galaxy,  philoao- 
phers  have  entertained  different  opinions.  The  Pythago- 
reans say  that  the  sun  once  wandered  out  of  his  way ;  and 
passing  through  other  parts  not  suited  to  his  heat,  scorched 
the  place  through  which  he  passed ;  and  tiiat  there  was  left 
that  appearance  of  the  scorching.  I  think  they  grounded 
their  opinion  on  the  fable  of  Phaii'ton,  which  Ovid  relates  at 
the  beginning  of  his  Metamorphoses.  Others  (as  Anaxa- 
goras  and  Democritus)  said  that  it  proceeded  from  a  partial 
repurcossion  of  the  solar  light,  which  they  proved  by  such 
reasons  as  they  could  bring  to  demonstrate  it.  What  Aris- 
totle has  said,  cannot  well  be  known ;  because  his  meaning 
is  not  made  the  same  In  one  translation  as  in  another :  and 
I  think  it  must  have  been  an  error  in  the  translators ;  for,  in 
the  new,  he  seems  to  say  that  it  is  a  collection  of  vapors 
under  the  stars,  which  they  always  attract  in  that  part ;  and 
this  appears  devoid  of  any  true  reason.  In  the  old,  he  says 
that  the  galaxy  is  nothing  else  than  a  multitude  of  fixed 
stars  in  that  part,  so  small,  that  here  below  we  cannot  dis- 
tinguish them ;  but  that  they  form  the  appearance  of  that 
whiteness,  which  we  call  the  galaxy.  And  it  may  be,  that 
the  heaven  in  that  part  is  dense,  and  therefore  retains  and 
represents  that  light;  and  in  this  opinion  Avicen  and  Pto- 
lemy seem  to  agree  with  Aristotle."  M.  I^etronne's  remarks 
on  this  passage  of  the  Convito,  inserted  in  M.  Artaud's  His- 
toire  de  Dante,  (80.  Par.  1841,  p.  157,)  are  worth  consulting. 

3  The  venerable  siffn.]  The  cross,  which  is  placed  in  the 
planet  of  Mars,  to  denote  the  glory  of  those  who  fought  in 
the  crusades. 

'  The  atomies  of  bodies.] 

As  thick  as  motes  in  the  sun-beame. 

Chaucer,  Edit.  1G03,  fol.  35. 

As  thick  and  numberless. 
As  the  gay  motes  that  people  the  sunbeam. 

Milton f  II  Penseroso. 


478 


THE  VISION. 


ihe  chimo 


Against  the  noontida  heal 
Of  minalrel  music,  dulcimer,  aiiu  imri 
With  many  rtringi,  a  pleasant  djimrnj 
To  him,  who  hearelh  not  distincl  the  note  ; 
So  from  the  lights,  which  there  appear'd  to  mp, 
fJnlher'd  along  the  cross  ■  melody, 
That,  mdisliiictly  heard,  willi  cavishitient 
Possesa'd  me.     ¥el  1  niark'd  it  WHB  a  hymn 
Of  lolly  praiaea ;  for  (here  came  to  me 
"  Ariee,"  and  "  Conquer,"  aa  to  one  who  hears 
And  comprehends  not     Me  such  ecstasy 
O'ercame,  that  never,  till  that  hour,  was  thing 
Thai  held  me  in  so  sweet  unpriaonment. 
Pf rhapa  my  saying  overbold  appeals, 
Aocounling  less  the  jrfeasure  of  those  ey«, 
Wheftoii  to  look  fulfilleth  all  desira. 
But  he,'  who  is  awue  those  Irving  seals 
Of  every  beauty  wnrJi  Wilh  quicker  force. 
The  higher  tbey  are  risen  ;  and  that  there 
I  had  not  tnm'd  ine  to  them  ;  he  may  well 
Excuse  me  that,  whereof  in  my  eicuae 
I  du  Bceoae  me,  and  may  own  my  trotli ; 
That  holy  pleasure  here  not  yet  reveal' d," 
Wliicli  grows  in  lianeport  as  we  mount  olmfl 


CANTO    XV. 

AEGUMENT. 
Tlifl  aplrit  of  OnceiBgaJdo.  nu 
■Unpllcity  ot  Ihe  PLorGalliu 

True  love,  Ihst  ever  s 
In  hinduese,  ae  loose  aj 


a-38.  PARADISE,  Canto  XV.  479 

Silenced  that  lyre  haimonious,  and  still'd 
The  sacred  chords,  that  are  by  heaven's  right  hand 
Unwound  and  tightened.     How  to  righteous  prayen 
Should  they  not  hearken,  who,  to  give  me  will 
For  praying,  in  accordance  thus  were  mute  ? 
He  hath  in  sooth  good  cause  for  endless  grief, 
Who,  for  the  love  of  thing  that  lasteth  not, 
Despoils  himself  for  ever  of  that  love. 

Ab  oft  along  the  still  and  pure  serene, 
At  nightfall,  glides  a  sudden  trail  of  fire, 
Attracting  with  involuntary  heed 
The  eye  to  follow  it,  erewhile  at  rest ; 
And  seebis  some  star  that  shifted  place  in  heaven,' 
Only  that,  whence  it  kindles,  none  is  lost, 
And  it  is  soon  extinct :  thus  from  the  horn. 
That  on  the  dexter  of  the  cross  extends, 
Down  to  its  foot,  one  luminary  ran 
From  mid  the  cluster  shone  there  ;  yet  no  gem 
Dropped  from  its  foil :  and  through  the  beamy  list. 
Like  flame  in  alabaster,  glow'd  its  course. 

So  forward  stretch'd  him  (if  of  credence  aught 
Our  greater  muse'  may  claim)  the  pious  ghost 
Of  old  Anchises,  in  the  Elysian  bower. 
When  he  perceived  his  son.     "  O  thou,  my  blood ! 

0  most  exceeding  grace  divine !  to  whom. 
As  now  to  thee,  hath  twice  the  heavenly  gate 
Been  e'er  unclosed  1"   So  spake  the  light :  whence  I 
Tum'd  me  toward  him ;  then  unto  my  dame 

My  sight  directed :  and  on  either  side 
Amazement  waited  me ;  for  in  her  eyes 
Was  lighted  such  a  smile,  I  thought  that  mine 
Had  dived  unto  the  bottom  of  my  grace 
And  of  my  bliss  in  Paradise.     Forthwith, 
To  hearing  and  to  sight  grateful  alike, 
The  spirit  to  his  proem  added  things 

1  understood  not,  so  profound  he  spake : 

^  And  seems  some  star  that  shifted  place  in  heaven.] 
Pare  una  Stella  che  tramnti  loco. 

Frezzi,  It  Qnadrir.,  lib.  i.  cap.  13. 
Sspe  etlam  Stellas,  vento  impendente,  videbls, 
Pnecipltes  ccbIo  labi,  noctisque  per  umbrain 
Flammarum  longos  a  tergo  albescere  tractus. 

Fir^.,  Georg.j  lib.  i.  367. 
Compare  Arat.  Aiovriii.  194. 
*  Our  greater  muse.]    Virgil.,  ^n.,  lib.  vi.  684. 

Isque  ubi  tendentem  adversum  per  gramina  vidit 
iBnean,  alacris  palmas  utrasque  tetendit. 
Yenisti  tandem,  tuaque  spectata  parent! 
yidt  iter  dnnun  pietas  1 


480 


THETISIOM, 


x-n. 


Yet  not  of  clioice.  but  thtougli  ueceaBily, 

MyBtprioiia;  for  his  high  couception  soar'cl 

Beyond  th«  mark  of  mortals.     When  ihe  lliglil 

Of  holy  iTaDsport  hod  m  apenl  lis  r^e, 

That  nearer  lo  the  level  of  our  thought 

The  epecch  ileaceiided ;  the  Rrst  sounds  I  heard 

Were,  "  Blest  he  thou.  Tiiunid  Deitf  ! 

That  hast  such  favor  in  my  seed  youchaafci" 

Then  followed:  *'  No  nnpleuBDOt  tbifst,  though  langi' 

Which  look  mo  reading  iu  the  sacred  hook, 

Whose  leaves  or  while  or  dusky  never  change. 

Thou  hast  allay'd,  my  son  I  within  this  light,     lint, 

From  whence  my  voice  thou  hear'sl :  more  Ihsntnlo 

Who.  for  such  liri/ty  mounting,  has  with  plumes 

Begirt  Ihes.    Thou  drat  deem  thy  ihouehM  to  me 

From  Him  Irausmilted,  who  is  first  of  idl, 

E'en  UB  all  numben  ray  from  unity ;' 

And  Iberefote  doM  not  ask  me  who  I  am, 

Or  why  to  Ihee  more  joyous  I  appear, 

Than  any  other  in  this  gladsome  throng. 

The  truth  is  aa  thou  dcem'st ;  fur  in  this  life 

Botli  less  and  greater  in  that  mirror  look. 

In  which  Ihy  thoughts,  or  ere  Ihou  Ihiuk'Bl.aieshowii- 

But,  thai  the  love,  which  keeps  ma  wakeful  ever, 

Urging  with  sacred  thirsl  of  sweet  desire, 

May  he  contented  fully  :  let  thy  voice. 

Fearless,  and  fmnk,  and  jocund,  utter  forth 

Thy  will  distinctly,  utler  forth  tiie  wish. 

Whereto  my  ready  answer  BUnds  decrECd." 

I  lum'd  me  la  Beatrice ;  and  she  heard 
Ere  I  had  spoken,  emilini;  ai 
That  to  my  will  gave  winga ;  and  I  hegan : 
"  To  eoch  among  your  tribe,'  what  time  ya  kenn'd 


TO-IOI.  PARADISE,  CiSTO  XV.  j81 

The  nsture,  in  whom  naught  UQMiniil  dwells, 

Wisdam  and  tove  were  In  one  maaBure  dealt ; 

For  that  ihey  are  so  equal  in  tlie  ■un. 

From  whence  ye  drew  your  radiance  and  your  heat, 

Aa  makes  all  likene«  acaiil.     But  will  and  meuu, 

In  mortnl«,  tor  the  cauee  ye  well  discern, 

With  unlike  wings  are  fiedge.     A  mortal,  I 

Eiperienoo  inequality  like  this ; 

And  therefore  give  no  thanks,  hut  in  the  heart. 

For  Ihy  paternal  greeting.     This  howe'er 

I  ptay  thee,  living  topai !  that  ingemm'st 

This  preoious  jewel ;  let  nie  hear  thy  name." 

"  I  am  thy  root,'  O  leaf !  whom  to  expect 
Even,  hath  pleaged  me."     Thai  the  prompt  reply 
Freboing;,  next  it  added;  "  He,  of  whom' 
Thy  kindred  appellatioa  comes,  and  who. 
These  hundred  years  and  more,  on  ite  first  ledge 
Hath  circuited  the  mountain,  was  my  son. 
And  thy  great-grandsire.    Well  ttetits,  his  long 
Endnrauce  should  be  shorteu'd  by  thy  deeds. 

''  Florence,'  within  her  ancient  limit-mark, 
Which  calls  her  still'  lo  matin  prayera  and  noon, 
Was  chaste  and  sober,  and  ubode  in  peace. 
She  had  no  armlets  and  no  head-tires  then  ; 
No  purSed  dames ;  no  xoae,  tlmt  caught  the  eye 
More  than  the  petBOn  did.     Time  wis  not  yet. 
When'  at  his  daughter's  birth  tlie  sire  grew  pale, 
For  fear  the  age  and  dowry  should  exceed, 


*St,  at  wAan.]  "Thy  erasI-grandfiUhBi,  Allfbiori,  has 
eaa  la  llu  Brat  roaad  of  Fnrcaloiy  mure  Uikd  s  hnndnil 
esn ;  mad  It  1>  ill  Ihsl  Ibnu  by  iby  %a3A  dewru  sbnnldtt 
fhsl  ii  known  or  Allghlerl.  ■»  Fell).  Meniar.  Dpeie  dl  [tenia. 


aid. 

««■«» 

Whitt. 

nlli  hrr  •nil 

The  poblle  clock 

did  not  eif 

^Koolugeaponidi 

J  man 

were  aoi  ftmneily 

THE  VISICHS. 


)»-ll4 


Sardannpalue,'  to  exhibit  feala 

or  cbau^iet  praweKB.     lUoutamalo'  yet 

O'er  our  eubutban  turret*  iiwa  ;  as  muoli 

To  be  wirpaw'ri  in  fatl,  as  iu  ilsriBiug. 

I  m-v  BelJitiuiou  Bum'  wulk  abroad 

In  teithern  girdle,  and  a  claBji  of  bone  ; 

And,  wilb  no  arl/iii  coluriug  ou  lisr  cheelu, 

HIb  lad;  leuvtf  Ibe  gtuxa.     Tbe  soiu  1  saw 

Of  Neili,  Bud  o[  Veocliio,'  well  cout«nt 

Wilb  unrobed  jeiliiu  ;  and  tlieii  good  damoa  haudling 

Tlio  miiidle  mid  tlie  flax :  O  buppy  they  : 

EBcb'sim  of  burial  Iji  hei  native  lund. 

And  DOUB  left  desolato  a-bed  fuc  France. 


tecesiutfy  w 


PARADI8P.,  Curro  XVI. 
One  n-akfid  lo  luncl  the  cradK  himhinff  it 
With  Eounda  Hiat  Inll'd  Iho  imrenfe  iirfXncy: 
AnoLlwr,  with  her  iiisidHOB,  dnwiiiB  off 
The  tressea  Irom  Ihe  iliBlaD'.  I<?cliir.'d  tlieul 
Old  tales  of  Troy,  and  Femle,  aud  Same. 
A  Salterello  and  CmngliElla'  wo 
Had  beld  ob  aLraD|;^  a  aiarvel,  as  ft  would 
A  CiDeianatw  or  Oanielia  now. 


ir  eiiualiljf, 
In  so  BWeet  houBEhoId,  Mary'  at  my  birlb 
BcBtow'd  me,  cail'il  on  with  lopd  crits ;  and  thens 
In  yonr  old  baptistery.  I  waa  made 
Chiistiaii  at  Doceaud  CBi»:iaguida;  aawere, 
My  brathren  Elveo  and  Moronto. 

"  FroDi  Valdipado'  came  to  mo  ray  Bpomo ; 
And  henca  thy  samanre  grew.     I  follow'J  then 
Tha  Emperor  Conrad  !'  and  hw  kuiEhthood  ha 
Did  gird  on  me  ;  iu  Buch  good  part  he  look 
My  vaUaut  aervioe.     Aflsr  him  I  wenl 
To  teaUfy  again«t  that  evil  law, 
Whole  people,'  by  the  ahepherd'a  fault,  poaaeia 
Toot  right  uanrp'd.     There  I  by  thai  foul  crew 
Wag  disentangled  &am  the  Ireacheroua  world 
WbOOB  baio  aSectioD  many  a  apirit  hmIb  ; 
And  from  the  martyrdom  came  to  this  peace." 


CANTO   XVI. 


, —  J  ^^.,.      _.._._  ._ nei  br  Lapo  Snlurello 

CorUnclll'i  cadJecllDa,  prlnUil  wllh  llie  Bells  Mb^o.  Ed. 

«  Jf«j.J  ^e  ViiBin  w»»  Invoked  i  d  Ihe  pilni  of  cW 
HrUi.    Fncgslory.  Cudio  ii.  Si. 

'  FaliiimM  Cucclopi^iU'i  wife,  w  hoie  Hunlly  niiine  i 
Alliiliiert.  cntne  fVnni  Faniira,  culled  Vikl  di  Pado,  t'lom  LU 

4<hiiral.1  The  EaipRn  Conrad  Hr,,  who  dlid  In  11 
be  Q.  VUUa),  lib.  Ii.  34. 


ily  Land.  Uuough  il 


THE  VISION. 

•DbsoqaeDt  dlifncB, 


I  loluMlBd 


0  BuaBT  reaped  of  man's  nobiliEy  '. 
1  never  sh&U  account  it  marvelloiis. 
That  our  infirm  affecljaa  here  beJoir 
Tboa  niDvHt  to  boastiag ;  when  1  could  not  oboDM^I 
E'en  in  that  re«OD  of  unwarp'd  desire. 
In  heaven  itaeltV  tot  make  my  vaunt  in  thee. 
Yet  cloak  thou  art  man  ehorten'd  ;  for  ih&t  Tims,  j 
Unlus  thou  its  eked  out  from  day  to  day, 

Goes  round  IJiee  with  his  sh^Brs.    Resnminf  then. 

With  greeting'  such  as  Rome  wag  first  to  beiir, 

Bui  nnce  liath  dlsaccustom'd,  I  tiegan : 

And  Beatrice,'  that  a  little  apace 

Wet  Bever'd,  amiled  ;  remiudlog  me  of  her, 

Whoae  cough  embalden'd  (as  the  story  holdB} 

To  first  o^nce  the  doubling  Guenever.* 

"  You  are  my  eire,"  said  I ;  "  }oa  give  me  beaft 
Freely  to  speak  my  thought ;  above  myself 
Ton  raise  me.     Through  eo  many  Btreams  with  jay 
My  soul  i>  fill'd,  that  gladneee  wells  (torn  it ; 
Bo  thai  it  beam  the  mtgbty  tide,  and  butBts  not 
Saythen.myhonor'dstBm!  what auceslora    [mark'd 
Were  thoea  yon  gprang-  6xim,  a.nd  what  yean  weni 
In  yonr  first  childliDodf    Tell  me  of  the  fold,'  _ 

That  hath  Saint  John  (br  gnardian,  what  was  tben^l 
Its  state,  and  who  in  it  were  highest  seated  !"        ^| 

As  emlwiB,  at  the  breathing  of  the  wind,  ^| 

Theu-  Same  enhveo  ;  so  that  light  I  saw  ^ 

Shine  at  my  btandislunenta  ;  and,  as  It  ^rew 
More  fair  to  look  on,  so  with  voice  more  sweet. 

1  mtlifrBrliitr.]    Ttie  Poet,  nbo  lad  rMnnalauitfiiU. 
lot  knuwInB  him  Id  be  hi>  Bncsilor,  with  n  plain  "  Than." 

la  H  cuiloni  iDtruilaced  tmong  ibe  Romaailn  ibg  lansrUniEi 
of  the  eupln. 

'  Beatrice.]    Linnhudt  abiervM,  Ihnl  In  order  Id  ibow  of 
wilh  iorrcd  anbjocii*  Beatrice  it  4i 

la  adQjII  Lhe  fnediHiis  of  Lnticetul.    See  HtlL,  Cildio  v.  I 
'.The  fold.]    FlotenVEpur which  Jolin  lbs  BBpkstl 


tft 


ifii'Wi' 


^W 


""I"* 'Ik. 


It  J 


\ 


\ 


1 


3B-«k  PARADISE,  Ciirro  XVI.  48ft 

Yet  not  in  this  our  modem  phrase,  forthwith 
It  answer'd :  "  From  the  day,^  when  it  was  said 
*  Hail,  Virgin !'  to  the  throes  by  which  my  mother, 
Who  now  is  sainted,  ligtiten'd  her  of  me 
Whom  she  was  heavy  with,  this  fbe  had  come 
Five  himdred  times  and  fonrscore,  to  relume 
Its  radiance  underneath  the  burning  foot 
Of  its  own  lion.     They,  of  whom  I  sprang. 
And  I,  had  there  our  birthplace,  where  the  last* 
Partition  of  our  city  first  is  reach'd 
By  him  that  runs  her  annual  game.    Thus  much 
Suffice  of  my  forefathers :  who  they  were. 
And  whence  they  hither  came,  more  honorable 
It  is  to  pass  in  silence  than  to  tell. 
All  those,  who  at  that  time  were  there,  betwixt 
Mars'  and  the  Baptist,  fit  to  carry  arms, 

1  Fh^om  the  duff.]  From  the  incamatioa  of  cor  Lord  to  the 
birth  of  Cacciagulda,  the  planet  Mars  had  returned  five  hvm- 
dred  and  eighty  ttmes  to  the  conateUation  of  Leo,  with  which 
it  is  supposed  to  luive  a  congenial  influence.  As  Mars  then 
completes  his  revolation  in  a  period  forty-three  days  short 
of  two  years,  (Xcciaguida  was  bora  about  1090.  This  is 
Lombarai^s  conputatlon,  and  it  squares  well  both  with  the 
old  reading— 

clnqnecento  cinquanta 

E  trenta  fiate ; 

and  with  fbe  time  when  Cacciaguida  might  have  &llen  fight- 
ing undor  Conrad  IIL,  who  died  in  1153.  Not  so  the  ocnnpn- 
tation  made  by  the  old  commentators  in  general,  who,  reek- 
oniog  two  years  for  the  revolution  of  Mars,  placed  the  birtii 
at  Cacciaguida  in  lltiO ;  the  impossibility  of  which  being  per- 
ceived by  the  Academicians  della  Crusca,  (as  it  had  before 
been  by  Pietro,  the  son  of  our  Poet,  or  by  the  author  of  the 
commentary  which  passes  for  his,)  they  altered  the  word 
"trenta"  Into  "tre,"  "thurty"  into  "three;"  and  so,  stUl 
reckoning  the  revolution  of  Mars  at  two  years,  brought  Cac- 
ciaguida's  birth  to  1106.  The  way  in  which  Lombardi  has 
got  over  the  difiiculty  appears  preferable,  as  it  retains  the  old 
reading;  and  I  have  accordingly  altered  the  translation, 
which  before  stood  thus : — 

this  fire  had  come, 

Five  hundred  fifty  times  and  thrice,  its  beams 
To  reillumine  underneath  the  foot 
Of  its  own  lion. 

Knee  this  note  was  written,  Monti  has  given  his  assent  to 
Lombardl's  opinion.  See  his  Proposta  under  the  word  "  Rin- 
fiammare,"  t  ui.  pt«  ii.  210. 

s  7%e  last.]  The  city  was  divided  into  four  compartments. 
The  EUsei,  the  ancestors  of  Dante,  resided  near  the  entrance 
of  that,  named  from  the  Porta  S.  Piero,  which  was  the  last 
reached  by  the  competitor  in  the  annual  race  at  Florence. 
See  6.  Villani,  lib.  iv.  cap.  x. 

s  Mar*.]    The  Padre  d' Aquino  undexstands  thto  to  i«fet 


486 


THE  VISION. 


Were  but  the  fifth,  of  tbera  tbn  day  alive. 
Bui  then  Ihe  citizen's  Uood,  that  now  b  aux'i 
Frum  Canipi  and  Certaldo  and  Figbiue,' 
Ran  purely  through  Ihe  last  mechauic'a  veins. 
O  how  much  better  were  it,  that  these  people' 
Were  nwghbora  lo  yoii ;  and  that  at  Galluiio 
And  at  Treapiano  ye  should  have  your  boundary ; 
Than  (a  have  them  within,  and  bear  the  Blench 
Of  Aguglione's  hind,  and  Signa'a,'  him. 
That  liath  his  eye  already  been  for  bartering.' 
Had  not  the  people,'  which  of  ali  the  world 
Degenerates  most,  been  stepdaine  unto  C^sar, 
But,  ad  a  mother  (o  her  son  been  kind. 
Such  one,  as  hath  become  a  Florentine, 
And  trades  and  traffics,  had  beeu  lutu'd  adrift 
To  Simifonle,'  whore  hia  grandaira  plied 
Tha  beggar's  croft ;  the  Conti  were  posseai'd 
Of  Montemurlo'  stUl ;  the  Cerehi  iliil 
Were  in  Acone's  parish :  nor  had  haply 

to  tbs  populsllon  or  Flonnce  In  Gnido'i  Ume ;  ftw,  tctaiOl 
to  tiim.  "  UB  Mine  e'l  Batiila,"  Diean*  Uie  ipnu  telma 
lUe  BluInE  of  UuB  iduced  on  Oa  foaU  VeccfalD  snd  the  Bi^ 
IlBEf  ry;  and  LiHoliiudl  UHats  to  (bii  knterpTQiKlSon-  VbshiiI 
■oiipinei,  thai  the  pDrUon  of  Und  so  deierlliel  would  bin 
been  Infiufflcleat  to  hold  tha  poJiaLmlloii  wbiofa  Floreactf  cub- 
Uined  SI  the  aupposed  date  oT  [hit  poeni,  ilinl  Is.  In  Ihe  tai 

the  deujipUoD  sh  Telatlpa  lo  Unw  B-nd  not  to  ^ace.  and  u 
IndJcadDB  the  two  perldirB  of  htathenlHin  aiht  ChrEatluiEj. 


J  Cantpi  and  Certnlio  and  Fiffkint-\  Country  pliueA  mtf 
1  TTiia  tliaafBi^i.\  "TbBIIha  InbBbllaBti  of  tbeaboii- 
Oui  limlli  of  Fluroaeo  eilended  beyond  Quiiazm  and  Tre»- 

'  ^gvrtittnt'B  iiiti,  md  Sig^a'a.]    Baldo  of  AniillDllc  and 
UoninizrD  o/  Blgns. 
•  His  e^  a/rMoljr  *HTi/of  iarUrint-]    Bae  Bell,  CanloBi. 


J..]    I 


nillril- 


pDlluied  by  a  rttce  of  DpilarEB,  nor  Ldbi  Iho  mo«t  nrtmtiM^ 

'  Simifente.]    A  c&flllo  disniBDtlefl  by  the  FlorentlBB*-   G, 
VULaal.  lib.  V.  cap,  sa.    The  perton  hen  allai]«<i  Id  ii  00 

lu  Itul 


PARADISE,  Canto  XVI. 


Fiom  ValdiKiievc  pais'd  II 
Thp  city's  mttliidy  liiith  ai 
In  the  confuBim  of  LL^i  jier 
The  body's,  in  voricly  of  I 


Dolh  more  and  better  e;i<;cuiion, 
ThaD  fixe.    KLoA  Liuii ;  Urbisoglia'  msik; 
How  they  are  gone  ;  and  after  them  how  go 
Chiusi  and  Siniga^ia-*  and  'iwili  *um 

Ho  laii^r  new,  at  Strang  ta  thee,  ta  hear 

Tbat  fsmilieB  fail,  when  cities  have  their  end. 

All  tliiues  that  appertain  10  ye,  lite  yonnelvB^ 

Ate  mortal    but  mortality  iu  some 

Ya  mark  not ;  they  endure  so  long,  and  yoa 

PaiB  by  BO  Buddenly.     And  as  the  inoou' 

Doth,  by  the  rolling  of  Ler  heavenly  sphere. 

Hide  and  reveul  the  atraiid  uncoaungly  ; 

So  fortune  deals  with  Florence.     Heuco  adoura  I 

At  what  of  (hem     tell  tliee,  whose  renown 

Time  ooTtf*,  llie  first  FlorentuifH.     I  KtW 

The  tJghi,'  Calilinl,  and  Filippi. 

The  Alberiehi,  Greci,  »ud  Ormttimi, 

Now  in  theit  wane,  illustrious  citiieus; 


And  Ardinglil,  and  BoBlichi.     At  the  poop* 


I.  tL  ap.  lIU.    ■•  mipmn 


I.Xt^...r.A." 

«,  hat 

OMtahltontodeoy. 

•C»«*ia»JSin«'V"-l   The  same. 

*Ait]UtMtn.\    "ThfltMniieof  u.lhUan  Uw 

nn,<lDthaMiud  flo»  ike  ihe  tea.'      S*a*.i»a«, 

Hn^ 

T'a.H.K.a. 

rU  UfSQ   Whoevrr  H  cuiirrai  lo  konw  the 

hablB- 

^iin>  oT  tbBH  and  iho  olhcr  aarLsnl  Floreniliin',  may 

fl.Vlll«l,llb.l.. 

I  j(i  t*a  iMiiii  1  The  Cetchi,  D&nie'ieDeniiei,  hadin 

cteeded 

Id  Ihe  hoHK.  over  the  g»w  c.f  SdIm  Peler,  ftrmetly  1 

hublled 

bv  Lbe  BlVipiDllI   ""1  >1>«  CODDt  (KddD.      G.  VlllaD 

Sp.  10.    M*ny  Bdlllon.  reDH  ?«■«..  ■"  ■n»."-The  o. 
aphor  i.  fonnd  Id  «l(^hyl^^  Bnpp,,  Ss«,  sod  1>  lb 

Salw 

•caice  nodBmlood  6y  Ite  orilici. 

Alia  ri  ^pn-v  ■<>"[  M'  farifMl"!'. 

»espsctlhw«  wn»lh^  mai  Qown  yoor  eltj'i  poop. 

48a  THE  VISION.  M-ue. 

That  now  is  Ikden  vith  dfW  felony 

So  cumbrous  It  inny  apecdily  ank  the  buk. 

The  RaTi|rnani  ^ai,  of  whorn  B  sprung 

The  CooQly  Giiido,  and  wb(W>  hath  Kuca 

Hs  lltle  from  the  famed  BeUlscioa  la'en. 

Fair  gOTeniance  was  yet  an  art  well  pnied 

By  him  of  Prfssa;  Gaiignio ihow'd 

The  giJd«d  hilt  ood  pammcl,'  in  his  hoase ; 

The  column,  clothed  with  verrey,'  aCill  was  Men 

TJnabaken  ;  the  Sacchciti  Rill  were  great, 

Giouchi,  Slbuiti,  Galli,  and  Burned, 

With  Ibem'  who  blush  lo  hear  the  bushel  named. 

Of  Uio  Calfucci  Mill  the  branchy  tnuik 

Was  in  its  Blrength :  and,  to  the  curule  chaiti, 

Siiii  and  Anigncta'  yet  wore  drawn. 

How  mighty  them'  I  saw,  whom,  since,  their  prids 

Hath  undoae  1  And  Id  all  their  goodly  deeds 

Florence  was,  hy  the  hullets  of  bright  gold,' 

O'Biflonrish'd.     Such  the  aires  of  thoae,'  who  noB, 

Ab  surely  as  your  church  is  laeanl,  flock 

Into  her  coDilstory,  and  at  Icisura 

There  stall  them  and  grow  fat.     The  o'erwoemni 

brood,' 
That  playa  the  dragon  after  him  (hat  Seen, 
But  unto  such  as  turn  and  ehow  the  taotb. 
Ay  or  the  puise,  is  gentle  as  a  lamb. 


'  Sitii  and  JrrifneBi-i    '*  These  famlUfls  411J1  vblokneil  II 

>  Tflcn,]    The  tTtenl;  accanllDg  lo  the  Lalln  note  on  I 
Monle  CsMlno  MS,  wiih  wWch  ihs  editor  oTlbeetlrii 

•■nilmlltuiifbTiflilfold.]    Theamu  oTtlio  Ahbnn.M 
Ii  caDjflcLured;  or  of  the  Laaibflrti.  aceariUng  lo  (heauLho 

"OflheTfadoni 


ronnde 

;?;5,s; 

ThLD. 

w  tbt  gTrtiif  anolhe 

llT-133.  PARADISE,  Canto  XYI.  489 

Was  <m  its  rise,  bat  yet  so  slight  esteem'd, 

That  Ubertino  of  Donati  grudged 

His  father-in-law  should  yoke  him  to  its  tribe. 

Already  Cap<nisacco^  had  descended 

Into  the  mart  firom  Fesole :  and  Giuda 

And  Infangato*  were  good  citizens. 

A  thing  incredible  I  tell,  though  true :' 

The  gateway,*  named  from  those  of  Pera,  led 

Into  the  narrow  circuit  of  your  walls. 

Each  one,  who  bears  the  sightly  quarterings 

Of  the  great  Baron^  (he  whose  name  and  worth 

The  festival  of  Thomas  still  reyives) 

His  knighthood  and  his  privilege  retained ; 

Albeit  one,"  who  borders  them  with  gold. 

This  day  is  minted  with  the  common  herd. 

In  Borgo  yet  the  Gualterotti  dwelt. 

And  Importuni  i*  well  for  its  repose, 

1  Ckgtentaceo.]  The  fkmily  of  Caponsacchi,  who  had  re- 
moved  firom  Fesole,  lived  at  Florence  in  the  Mercato  Vecchlo. 

« Oiuda 

And  Infangato.]   Giuda  Goidi  and  the  family  of  Infkngatl. 

*  A  thing  incredible  1  tdly  though  true."] 

Id  dirb  cosa  incredibile  e  vera. 

.  'EycS  aoi  ip&y  l^i;,  &  ZoMcparer,  ditiarov  fiiv  v^  roht  Otobff 
iknOtt  St.     Plato,  Theage8.y  Bipont.  Edit.,  tom.  11.  p.  83. 

*  The  gateway.']  Landino  refers  this  to  the  smallness  of 
the  city :  Vellutello,  with  less  probability,  to  the  simplicity 
of  the  people  in  naming  one  of  the  gates  after  a  private 
fiunily. 

B  7%«  great  Baron.]  The  Marchese  Ugo,  who  resided  at 
Fkxence,  as  lieutenant  of  the  Emperor  Otho  III.,  rave  many 
of  the  chief  families  license  to  bear  his  arms.  See  G.  Vif> 
lani,  lib.  iv.  cap.  2,  where  the  vision  is  related,  in  consequence 
aS  which  he  sold  all  his  possessions  in  Germany,  and  founded 
seven  abbeys ;  in  one  whereof,  his  memory  was  celebrated 
at  Florence  on  St.  Thomas's-day.  "The  marquis,  when 
hunting,  strayed  away  from  his  people,  and  wandering 
through  a  forest,  came  to  a  smithy,  where  he  saw  black  and 
deformed  men  tormenting  others  with  fire  and  hammers; 
and,  asking  the  meaning  of  this,  he  was  told  that  they  were 
condemned  souls,  who  suflbred  this  punishment,  and  that 
the  soul  of  the  Blarquis  Ugo  was  doomed  to  suffer  the  same, 
if  he  did  not  repent.  Struck  with  horror,  he  commended 
himself  to  the  Virgin  Maiy;  and  soon  after  founded  the 
seven  religious  houses." 

"  One.]  Giano  della  Bella,  belonging  to  one  of  the  fami- 
Ues  thus  distinguished,  who  no  longer  retained  his  place 
amxmg  the  nobility,  and  had  yet  added  to  his  arms  a  bordure 
or.    See  Macchiavelli.  1st.  Fior.,  lib.  ii.  p.  86.  Ediz.  GioUto. 

T Oualterotti  dtodt, 

And  Importuni.]    Two  families  in  the  compartment  of 
the  city  called  Boi^o. 


4m 


IS«-IS1. 


Had  11  Btill  1»ck'd  of  npwer  neighborhood.'      [«pnng, 
The  houHc.'  from  whence  yonr  ten™  have  hnd  thm 
Throu^  the  juBt  ungnr.  tliot  halh  mnrder'd  jw 
And  put  a  period  to  your  gladsonio  daye. 
Was  honot'd  ;  it,  and  thonB  ooiBorted  wHh  ft. 
O  Buoiidelmonti !  whnl  ill  ooHBgelliDC 
PrevaU'd  on  thee  lo  hrcdk  the  plighted  bond? 
Many,  who  now  are  weejnng,  would  rejoice. 
Had  God  lo  EniB'  gJTCTi  Iheo,  the  firm  time 
Thou  nrar  our  city  CBme^     But  m  was  doom'd: 
Floreiioe  !  on  thai  maim'd  alone'  which  gusrdB  [hi 
The  riclira,  when  thy  penee  departed,  Ml.    [bridge, 

■'  With  thne  and  Dlhers  like  to  them.  I  raw 
FloteacB  in  such  nmiired  tranqiiitlity, 
She  had  no  oaase  Bt  whieh  lo  ^eve:  with  thesa 
Saw  her  so  glorioua  and  so  jusl,  «inl  ne'er 
The  lily"  from  the  lance  had  hong  reveret, 
Oi  Ihrougii  divinon  been  with  Tenneil  dTed." 


CANTO    XVIL 

ARfiL'MENT. 
aha  in  OUT  poM  hH  ei11«  and  tke  Trin 
aei;  viti,  lully,  eihoiu  lilai  lo  iMN 

Seen  Bs  the  youlh,*  wlio  came  lo  Clymene, 
To  certify  himself  of  Ibal  reproach 
Which  hod  been  faiiten'd  ou  him,  [he  wImh  enJ 
Stitl  makes  the  falhen  chery  to  their  boiu,) 
"'  '  1  i  nor  imobaerved  was  such 


fr^  PARADISE,  Cahtd  XVH.  40 

Of  Beatrice,  aaA  Ihti  snintiy  Inmpi' 

Who  had  uewhiJe  foi  me  his  MatLon  oMnrod ; 

When  thus  my  liuiy:  <■  Uive  Uiy  -wiafa  bsa  vhoIj 

That  it  may  iaaue,  hearuig  true  ipp«rt 

Of  ibe  mtnd'a  imprsBa:  uoL  that  iiughl  thy  wonln 

May  ta  mti  kuowledgfl  add,  but  to  the  etbd 

That  thou  mayet  use  UiyBtlf  to  owu  thy  thirst,' 

And  men  may  miuglo  for  Ihee  wlien  thay  heat." 

"O  plant,  fcoia  whence  I  spring  !  reTamd  aud  losed 
Who  •oai'sL  BO  high  a  pilch,  that  thou  as  eleor,' 
As  earthly  thought  delemiuieB  two  obtuw 
In  one  triangle  not  coutnui'd,  bo  clear 
Dost  see  coulmgeneies,  ere  in  themaelveB 
ExistcDt,  looking  at  the  pouil'  wlierelo 
All  tunes  are  present;  I,  the  whil-o  I  soslad 
With  Virgil  tliB  Boul-purifying  niouul' 
And  visited  the  nether  world*^of  wo, 
Tancbing  my  future  destiny  hale  heard 
Words  grieTDUB,  though  1  feci  me  on  all  wdeR 
WeU,  squared'  to  foKiine's  blows.     Therefors  my  wi 
Were  aatisiied  to  know  the  lot  awaits  ms. 
The  arroit,'  seen  beforehand,  staeks  bis  Oighl." 

So  Bald  1  ta  the  brightnoSH,  wliiah  erewhlle 
To  me  had  spoken ;  and  my  will  declurad. 
As  Baatiice  wiiTij,  explicitly. 
Nor  with  oracular  response  obscure, 

if  God  was  slain, 


Sucb  as,  or 
BeguUed  the 

The  spirit  of 

'er  the  Lam 
credulous  n 

paternal  lov 

enaBotnUoaVuirl 
>  Tlul  Chix  a>  cl^T. 
lbs  UDH  clesmcB  of 

t7»{iwA.t.l    Thedi 

vldei 
line 

(.nscfWH.]    A  line  re 
CbepHwaDllvi 


n 


THE  \ISION.  M-e; 

_  lo  apparent ;  and  thus  ipoke : 

"  Coutingancy,'  whoBe  verge  exlendeth  not 
Beyond  Ibe  tablet  of  yoor  mortal  mould, 
lu  all  depictured  in  the  eternal  aiglit; 
But  bsDce  detircth  not  neoesaity,' 
More  than  the  tali  ahip,  harried  donn  the  Smd, 
Ib  driven  hy  the  eye  that  looka  on  it. 
From  thence,*  as  to  the  ear  sweet  harznony 
From  organ  camea,  an  comes  before  mine  eye 
The  time  prepared  for  thee.     Such  as  driven  ont 
From  Athens,  by  hia  cruel  stepdame'S*  nileCi 
HippolytuB  departed;  such  tnuet  thou 
Depart  from  Florence.     This  they  wish,  and  Ihs 
Coalrive,  and  will  ere  loug  efleetiiate,  there,' 
Where  gainful  merchandise  la  made  of  Christ 
Thraughoul  the  liveloag  day.    The  coDimim  cry* 
Will.  OS  'tia  ever  wont,  affix  the  blame 
Unto  the  party  Injured  ;  but  the  truth 
Shall,  in  the  vengeance  it  dtspenseth,  find 
A  faithful  witness.     Thou  ehalt  leave  each  thu^ 
Beloved  most  dearly:  this  is  the  first  shaft 
Shot  from  the  bow  of  exile.     Thou  ahalt  pnive 
How  salt  the  savor  is  of  other's  bread ; 
How  hard  the  pnasage,  to  descend  and  climb 
By  other's  stairs.     But  that  shall  gall  thee  mort. 
Will  be  (he  worthlen  and  vile  company, 

'  Omtijtgenctt.] 

Lb  coDftpgena.  the  taor  Ael  qaadama 


plKnalion 


[  accordingly ; 


I 


lAinf-]    CoDipaie  Edripld.  Ftaniq 


PARADISE,  Canto  XVU.  493 

With  whom  thou  must  be  thrown  into  these  straits. 
For  all  ungrateful,  impious  all,  and  mad. 
Shall  turn  'gainst  thee :  but  in  a  little  while. 
Theirs,'  and  not  thine,  shall  be  the  crimson'd  brow. 
Their  course  shall  so  evince  their  brutishness. 
To  have  ta'en  thy  stand  apart  shall  well  become  thee. 

"  first  refuge  thou  must  find,  first  place  of  rest, 
In  the  great  Lombard's^  courtesy,  who  bears, 
Upon  the  ladder  perch'd,  the  sacred  bird. 
He  shall  behold  thee  with  such  kind  regard. 
That  'twixt  ye  two,  the  contrary  to  that 
Which  'falls  'twixt  other  men,  the  granting  shall 
Forerun  the  asking.     With  him  shalt  thou  see 
That  mortal,'  who  was  at  his  birth  impressed 
So  strongly  from  this  star,  that  of  his  deeds 
The  nations  shall  take  note.     His  unripe  age 
Yet  holds  him  from  observance ;  for  these  wheels 
Only  nine  years  have  compass'd  him  about. 
But,  ere  the  Gascon^  practise  on  great  Harry ,* 
Spukles  of  virtue  shall  shoot  forth  in  him. 
In  equal  scorn*  of  labors  and  of  gold. 
His  bounty  shall  be  spread  abroad  so  widely, 
As  not  to  let  the  tongues,  e'en  of  his  foes. 
Be  idle  in  its  praise.     Look  thou  to  him. 
And  his  beneficence  :  for  he  shall  cause 
Reversal  of  their  lot  to  many  people  ; 
Rich  men  and  beggars  interchanging  fortunes. 
And  thou  shalt  bear  this  written  in  thy  soul. 
Of  him,  but  tell  it  not :"  and  things  he  told 
Incredible  to  those  who  witness  them ; 
Then  added :  "  So  interpret  thou,  my  son, 

i  Theira.']  "  They  shall  be  ashamed  of  the  part  they  have 
taken  against  thee."  Lombardi,  I  think,  is  very  unhappy  in 
hUi  conjecture,  that  rotta  la  tempia,  a  reading  of  the  Nidobe- 
atlna  edition,  should  be  adopted,  and  that  it  may  mean  "  the 
ImAen  heads  of  his  companions." 

s  The  rreat  Lombard.]  Either  Bartolommeo  della  Scala  ;  or 
Albotno  nte  brother,  although  our  Poet  has  spoken  ambigu- 
onsly  of  him  in  his  Convito,  p.  179.  Their  cout  of  arms  was 
a  ladder  and  an  eagle.  For  an  account  of  the  rise  of  this  fam- 
ily tram  a  very  mean  condition,  see  G.  Villani,  lib.  xi.  cap.  94. 

*  T^at  mort€U.]  Can  Grande  della  Scala,  Imm  under  the 
influence  of  Mars,  but  at  this  time  only  nine  years  old.  He 
was,  as  the  other  two,  a  son  of  Alberto  della  Scala. 

*  The  Ghueon.]  Pope  Clement  V.  See  Hell,  Canto  ziz.  86, 
and  Note,  and  Par.  Canto  xxvii.  53,  and  Canto  zzx.  141. 

•  Great  Harry.]    The  Emperor  Henry  VII.    See  Canto 
XX.  135. 

•  In  equal  $eom.]    See  Hell,  Canto  1. 98. 


BmbUBbment  ^^^U 
Blrelch'd  f 


4gi  TIIE  VISION.  «-lS 

■WhBl  hnlh  been  lold  Ihee.— Lo  1  Iha 
That  a  few  circling  aeosods  hide  for  I 
Yotenry  not  Ihy  naighbora:  time  oxi 
Thy  span  buyond  their  treaaon'g  chos 
Soon  aa  Ihe  saintly  spnit,  by  Bilenci 
Completion  of  tliat  web,  which  I  had  Blrelch't 
Before  it,  wwp'd  for  weaving ;  I  began, 
As  one,  who  iu  perplexity  desires 
Counsel  of  otbei,  wise,  beutgn,  and  f^endly : 
*'  My  father  1  well  1  mark  how  tima  spurs  on 
Towiird  me,  ready  to  infltet  tlie  blow. 
Which  falls  most  heavily  on  him  who  most 
Abandonsth  hlmBelf.     TlierefotD  'tb  good 
I  ehould  forecast,  that,  driven  &ain  Ihe  place' 
Moat  dear  to  me,  I  may  not  lose  m}-fielf' 
All  other  by  my  song.     Down  through  the  wotld 
Of  infinite  moumuig  ;  and  along  the  mount. 
From  whose  fair  height  my  lody^s  eyea  did  lift  fne ! 
And,  after,  through  this  heaven,  from  light  to  light ; 
Have  I  learo'd  that,  which  if  I  tell  Bgaiii, 
It  may  with  many  wofully  disrelish ; 
And,  if  1  am  a  timid  friend  to  truth, 
I  fear  my  life  may  periKh  among  thOBo. 
To  whom  tlipae  days  shall  be  of  ancient  date." 
The    brighlneBa,    where    eucloeed    tho   tiwuue' 

Which  I  had  fouud  there,  first  shone  gliateriiigly> 

Like  to  a  golden  mirror  in  the  sun  ; 

Next  anBwer'd:  "  Conscience,  dimm'd  orby  iUOTra 

Or  olher'a  shame,  will  feei  thy  saying  aharp. 

Thou,  notwithatanding,  all  deceit  removed, 

8ee  the  whole  vision  be  made  manifest. 

And  let  them  wince,  who  have  theirwilheta  wrung 

What  though,  when  tasted  first,  thy  voice  ^aU  pMTS 

Unwelcome  :  on  diction,  it  will  turn 

To  vital  nourishmenL     The  cry  thou  raisest,* 


•  (*~ijiii.l  (m»  m^nr.]  "Thstlwlngftri™i  out  o(m) 
connlry,  I  iniiy  ool  ilopKso  mjsBir  of  Bverr  Hlh«  slua  »y 
Ihe  boldncg;  with  which  1  elpoie.  In  ms  wrlliBci.  Ilia  ^cM 


OfllKM^L... 

luvtunlly  loaamoveif  by  EaBlancea  adduced  from : 


1»-I3&.  PARADISE,  Civpo  XVIll. 

Shell,  ta  the  wind  dolh,  nnito  the  pnmdait  mm 
Whioli  in  uf  honor  no  hghi  nrguinent. 
For  Iha,  lliere  only  have  hpou  shown  In  thee, 
Throughout  lheE«  orbe.  ihe  itiounlBin,  and  thei 
Spirils,  whom  fame  liath  nole  or.     For  the  mln 
Of  him,  wlio  hean,  in  lalh  tu  acqniuwie 
And  Gi  its  faitli,  uiilew  lh«  iiulance  brought 
Be  paipable,  and  proof  apparuiit  urge." 


CANTO    xviri. 


IhiHe  who  hul  admlnlilerfMl  Juiiicc  r^Ut  In  the  world, 

clergy*  and  tipecUlly  ai  the  pope. 

Now'  ill  Ilia  word,  eoie,  mniinatiug,  joy'd 
That  blessed  spirit:  aiid  I  fed  on  mine, 
Temporing  the  sweet  witli  bitter.'    She  meuiwhils, 
Who  led  me  unto  God,  admoniahM;  "  Mute 
On  Mfaar  thonghli;  bethink  Iliee,  that  near  Him 
I  dwell,  wlio  recompenselli  erery  wrong." 

At  the  Bweet  Munda  of  comfort  atrai^t  I  lurn'd : 
And,  in  the  Baintly  eym  what  lore  woe  Been, 
I  leave  in  aileoce  here,  nor  through  dulniiil 
or  my  words  only,  bnl  thai  la  bucIi  hlisa 
The  mind  icmonntB  not  without  aid.     Thna  much 
Yet  may  I  apeak  ;  that,  ob  I  gaicd  on  her, 
Afiectioa  found  no  room  for  other  wish. 
While  the  everlasting  jrfeaanre,  that  did  full 
On  Beatrice  uhiae,  with  second  view 
From  her  fair  countenance  my  gladden'd  aoiU 
Centeuted  ;  vauquishiug  me  with  a  beam 
Of  her  soft  wnile,  she  spake  :  "  Turn  thee,  and  list. 
TtaeM  eyes  ani  UDl  tiiy  only  Paradise." 

Aa  bore,  we  sometimes  iii  the  looks  may  see 
The  affection  mork'd,  when  that  its  sway  hath  la'eD 


PIP 


498  THE  VBIOS. 

The  spirit  vihaUy  ;  thus  tbe  hallow'd  light,' 

To  whom  1  turn'd,  flaahing,  bawray'd  its  will 

To  talk  yet  further  with  me,  and  bwao : 

"  On  ihia  tifih  \odgiafnt  of  the  tiee,^w 

I»  from  iU  top,  whose  fruit  i>  ever  fair 

And  leaf  unwitheriug,  blewed  B|Mrlta  abide, 

That  were  below,  ere  tbey  arriTHl  in  heavei 

Bo  mighty  in  renown,  aa  eveiy  muse 

Might  graoe  her  Iriuiaph  with  Ibem.     On  the  hi 

Look,  therefore,  of  the  oross :  he  whom  I 

ShaU  there  enact,  as  doth  Id  summer  cloi 

Its  nimble  firs."     Along  the  cross  I  anw. 

At  tbp  repeated  name  of  JosbHH, 

A  splendor  gliding ;  nor,  the  word  was  u 

Of  the  great  Maccabee,'  another 

With  wbirling  speed  ;  and  gladness  wae  the  a 

Unto  that  top.    The  next  tor  Charlemain* 

And  for  the  peer  Orlanda,  two  my  gazo 

Furaued,  intently,  as  the  eye  pureues 

A  falcon  flying     Last,  along 

William,  and  Reaard,'  and  Duke  Godfrey'  drsv 


knoivn  hy  having  beon  celebmled  bf  Artodo,  in 
I  UiLte  Qt^r^.]    Godfrey  of  Boolllao. 

11  bnon  aace  GoKtOo, 


«tJIS.  PARADISE,  Canto  XVIU.  4ff7 

Mt  ken,  and  Robert  Guiscard.'      And  tho  nml. 
Who  qwke  with  me.  Bmong  tho  other  lig hW 
Did  move  away,  and  mii ;  and  wilh  the  quire 
Of  hesTenly  wngstera  proved  his  luoeful  akill. 

To  BealrioB  on  my  rifrht  I  beni, 
looking  for  intimation,  or  by  word 
Or  act,  what  next  beliooved  ;  and  did  doKiy 
Such  mere  offulgenoe  in  her  eyen,  mich  joy, 
It  jraa'd  all  former  wont.     And,  SB  by  MOsa 
Of  Dfnr  deiighl.  the  man,  who  penevena 
In  good  deedp,  doth  perceive,  from  day  to  day, 
Hia  virtue  growing ;  1  e'en  thus  perceived. 

The  circuit  widen'd  ;  noting  the  tncie™ 
Of  beBUly  in  that  wonder.     IJko  the  change 
In  a  brief  moment  on  lomo  maiden'a  cheek, 
Wtiioli.  from  its  fairnen,  doth  diacharge  the  weight 
Of  pudency,  that  atam'd  it ;  such  in  her. 
And  Id  mine  eyee  bo  andden  wna  the  change, 
Through  niivery'  whileuess  of  that  lempcratB  atoi, 
WhoBB  Biith  orb  now  eufolded  ua.      I  aaw. 
Within  thai  iavial  creaset,  the  clear  aparka 

Oar  language.    And  as  birds,  from  lirer  banks 

A^n,  now  in  round,  now  lenglhea'd  troop, 

Amy  them  in  their  flight,  gieeliug.  aa  seenis, 

Their  new-found  paaturea;  bo,  within  the  lights, 

The  saintly  creature  flying,  sang ;  and  made 

Now  D,  now  1,  now  h,  figured  i'  the  aii. 

FinA  smging  to  tlieir  Dnt,»  they  moved  ;  then,  one 

Becoming  of  these  Hgns.  a  little  while 

Did  reel  them,  and  were  mute.     O  nymph  divine,* 


498  THE  VISION.  M-Iia. 

Of  Pupmeaa  race  I  who  eonls,  which  Ihou 
Inppiresl,  raakBit  glorious  and  long-liepd,  aa  Ihwf 
Cities  and  realniB  by  Ihee  ;  Ihou  with  tbTeelT 
Inform  mo  ;  that  I  may  set  forth  the  obapiH, 
Ad  fancy  doth  present  Ihom :  be  thy  power 
Display'd  in  this  brief  Bong.     The  characlerB,' 
Vocal  and  conBonant,  were  tJTelold  seren. 
In  order,  each,  as  they  appear'd,  I  mark'd. 
Diligile  Juctitiom,  the  first, 

Both  verb  and  noon  all  blaxoo'd ;  and  the  i^iitreine, 
Qui  judicalis  terrun.     lu  the  M 
Of  the  fifth  word  they  held  Iheh  slal.ion  ; 
Making  the  alar  Beeni  silver  streah'd  with  ^Id. 
And  on  llie  ennnnit  of  the  M,  I  saw 
DesceDding  other  lig'hla,  tha(  re«teil  thero, 
Sinfiug,  uiethinka,  their  bliea  and  primal  good. 
Then,  as  at  ehaking  of  a  lighted  braiid. 
Sparkles  uiuumerable  on  all  aides 
Rise  Bcstler'd,  source  of  au^ry  to  the  iinwi«  f 
Thus  more  than  thousaud  twinkling  lustres  hepcs 
SoeiD'd  reuBOending ;  and  a  higher  pitch 
Some  mounting,  and  some  leas,  e'en  oa  the  son, 
Which  kindleth  them,  decreed.  And  when  each  out 
Had  settled  in  hia  place  ;  the  head  and  neck 
Then  saw  I  of  an  eagle,  livelily 
Graved  in  that  streaky  fire.     Who  painteth  tben,' 
Hath  none  to  giude  Him:  of  Himself  he  guides: 
And  every  line  and  texture  of  the  nest 
Doth  own  from  Hun  the  virtue  fasbioiu  i 
The  other  bright  beatitude,'  tliat  scem'd 
Erewhile,  with  iiliad  erowuing,  well  con 
To  over-canopy  the  M,  moved  forth. 
Following  gently  the  impress  of  the  bird- 
Sweet  star  I  what  glorious  and  thick-studdtd  gsM 
peclared  lo  me  our  Justice  on  the  earth 
To  be  the  effluence  of  that  heaven,  which  tfaau, 
Thyself  a  costly  jewel,  dost  inlay. 
Therefore  I  pray  the  Sovereign  Muid,  fram  wh< 

>  TKr<  ctarnacrt.]    DtllriM  JDiUUnm  qui  JaiHoUi  u 
"  Lava  rlebteuautesB.  yo  that  be  jad^ea  dT  (bs  earth-" 


^ 


114-133.  PARADISE,  Canto  XIX.  409 

Thy  motion  and  thy  virtue  are  began, 
That  He  would  look  from  whence  the  fog  doth  rise, 
To  vitiate  thy  beam ;  so  that  once  more^ 
He  may  put  forth  his  hand  "gainst  such,  as  drive 
Their  traffic  in  that  sanctuary,  whose  walls 
With  miracles  and  martyrdoms  were  built. 
Ye  host  of  heaven,  whose  glory  I  survey ! 

0  beg  ye  grace  for  those,  that  are,  on  earth, 
All  after  iU  example  gone  astray. 

War  once  had  for  his  instrument  the  sword : 
But  now  'tis  made,  taking  tlie  bread  away,' 
Which  the  good  Father  locks  from  none. — And  thon, 
That  writest  but  to  cancel,'  think,  that  they. 
Who  for  the  vineyard,  which  thou  wastest,  died, 
Peter  and  Paul,  live  yet,  and  mark  thy  doings. 
Thou  hast  good  cause  to  cry,  "  My  heart  so  cleaves 
To  him,^  that  lived  in  solitude  remote. 
And  for  a  dance"  was  dragg'd  to  martyrdom, 

1  wist  not  of  the  fisherman  nor  PauL" 


CANTO    XIX. 


ARGUMENT. 

The  eaf^le  speaks  as  with  one  voice  proceeding  from  a  nralti- 
tode  of  spirits,  that  compose  it ;  and  declares  the  cause  fiir 
which  it  is  exalted  to  that  state  of  glory.  It  then  solves  a 
doubt,  which  our  Poet  had  entertained,  respecting  the  pos- 
sibility of  salvation  without  belief  in  Christ ;  exposes  the 
inefficacy  of  a  mere  profession  of  such  belief;  and  prophe- 
sies the  evil  appearance  that  many  Christian  potentates 
will  make  at  the  day  of  judgment. 

Before  my  sight  appeared,  with  open  wings, 

>  T%at  once  more.]  "  That  he  may  again  drive  out  those 
who  buy  and  sell  in  the  temple.'* 

s  Taking  the  bread  away.]  '*  Excommunication,  or  interdic- 
tion of  the  eucharist,  is  now  employed  as  a  weapon  of  war- 
fiiie." 

*  That  writest  but  to  cancel.]  "  And  thou.  Pope  Boniface, 
who  writest  thy  ecclesiastical  censures  for  no  other  purpose 
than  to  be  paid  for  revoking  them." 

♦  To  him.]  The  coin  of  Florence  was  stamped  with  the 
impression  of  John  the  Baptist ;  and,  for  this,  the  avaricious 
pope  is  made  to  declare  that  he  felt  more  devotion,  than 
either  for  Peter  or  Paul.  Lombardi,  I  know  not  why,  would 
apply  this  to  Clement  V.  rather  than  to  Boniface  VIII. 

B  j9iu2  for  a  dance.]  I  am  indebted  to  an  intelligent  critic 
in  the  Monthly  Review,  1823,  for  pointing  out  iny  former 
nrroneons  translation  of  the  words  *'  per  salti,"  "  From  the 
wUds." 


8S-68.  PARADISE,  Canto  XIX.  501 

So  saw  I  move  that  stately  sign,  with  praisa 

Of  grace  divine  inwoven,  and  high  song 

Of  inexpressive  joy.     **  He,"  it  began, 

'*  Who  tum'd  his  compass^  on  the  worlds  extremoy 

And  in  that  space  so  variously  hath  wrought, 

Both  openly  and  in  secret ;  in  such  wise 

Could  not,  through  all  the  univeise,  display 

Impression  of  his  glory,  that  the  Word^ 

Of  his  omniscience  should  not  still  remain 

In  infinite  excess.     In  proof  whereof. 

He  first  through  pride  supplanted,  who  was  sum 

Of  each  created  being,  waited  not 

For  light  celestial ;  and  abortive  fell. 

Whence  needs  each  lesser  nature  is  but  scant 

Receptacle  unto  that  Good,  which  knows 

No  limit,  measured  by  itself  alone. 

Therefore  your  sight,  of  the  omnipresent  Mind 

A  single  beam,  its  origin  must  own 

Surpassing  far  its  utmost  potency. 

The  ken,  your  world  is  gifted  with,  descends 

In  the  everlasting  Justice  as  low  down. 

As  eye  doth  in  the  sea ;  which,  though  it  mark 

The  bottom  from  the  shore,  in  the  wide  main 

Discerns  it  not ;  and  ne'ertheless  it  is ; 

But  hidden  through  its  deepness.     Light  is  none. 

Save  that  which  cometh  from  the  pure  serene 

Of  ne'er  disturbed  ether :  for  the  rest, 

'Tis  darkness  all ;  or  shadow  of  the  flesh. 

Or  else  its  poison.     Here  confess  reveaPd 

That  covert,  which  hath  hidden  from  thy  search 

The  living  justice,  of  the  which  thou  madest 

Such  frequent  question ;  for  thou  saidst — *  A  man 

Is  bom  on  Indus'  banks,  and  none  is  there 

Who  speaks  of  Christ,  nor  who  doth  read  nor  write ; 

1  ffko  turtCd  his  eompasg.]  "  When  he  prepared  the  hea- 
vens, I  was  there :  when  he  set  a  compass  upon  the  face  of 
the  depth."    Proverbs,  viii.  27. 

In  his  hand 

He  took  the  golden  compasses,  prepared 
In  God*s  eternal  store,  to  circumscribe 
This  universe,  and  all  created  things. 

Milton,  P.  L.,  b.  vli.  227. 

*  TAe  Word.]  *'  The  divine  nature  still  remained  incom- 
prehensible. Of  this  Lucifer  was  a  proof;  for  he,  though 
the  chief  of  all  created  beings,  yet,  through  his  pride,  wait- 
ing not  for  farther  supplies  of  the  divine  illumination,  fell 
without  coming'  to  maturity."  Thus  our  author  in  the  De 
Yulgari  Eloquio,  spealcing  of  the  fallen  angels,  says,  "  divi- 
nam  cturun  perveiri  expectare  noluerunt."    L.  i.  c.  "2. 


503  THE  VISION.  63-11 

And  bII  his  incUnslians  nod  hie  ncla, 
As  for  Bs  liuman  resean  aeen,  are  good  ; 
And  he  atfindoth  not  in  word  or  deed: 
But  unbaptized  he  dies,  and  void  of  roith. 
Where  is  the  juMico  that  cODdomns  him  1  wliere 
His  blame,  if  he  behevetb  net  f— What  then. 
And  whu  art  thou,  that  on  tho  stool  wouldrt  art 
To  judge  at  difltance  of  b  thousand  inilee 
With  the  Hhotf-wghted  vision  of  a  spau  ? 
To  him,'  who  eubtillxea  thus  with  mc, 
Them  would  assuredly  be  room  for  doubt 
Even  lo  wonder,  did  not  [ha  safe  word 
Of  scripture  hold  supreme  authority. 

■'  O  animals  of  cluy !  O  spirits  gram '. 
Tho  primal  will,"  (lint  in  itself  is  good. 
Hath  from  itself,  tho  chief  Good,  ne'er  been  nun 
Justice  constate  in  consonance  with  il. 
Derivable  by  no  created  good, 
Whose  very  canse  depends  upon  ita  beam." 

As  on  her  nest  the  stork,  that  tiirue  abont 
Unto  her  young,  whom  lately  she  hath  fed. 
Whiles  they  with  upward  eyea  do  look  on  hm ; 
Bo  Ufted  I  my  gaze ;  and,  bending  bo, 
Tho  ever-blessed  image  waved  its  wines. 
Laboring  with  such  deep  counsel.     Whaelii 
It  warbled,  and  did  say ;  "  As  are  my  nolei 
To  thee,  who  underBtoad'sl  them  not;  snel 
The  elemat  judgment  unto  mortal  ken." 

Then  still  abiding  in  that  ensign  ranged, 
Wherewith  the  Romans  overawed  the  worid. 
Those  burning  gplendora  of  tlia  Holy  Spirit 
*"     '  jtrain ;  and  thus  it  spijie  again : 


"Nou 


hsthu 


4  to  tt 


Who  lialh  n 

ot  a  believer  been  in 

Clirist, 

Eilher  before  or  afl 

r  tlie  bless'd 

imbs 

Were  .mi!'d 

upon  the  wood.     But  lo  1  of  Uioso 

Wiio  call  ' 

Christ,"  th 

re  shall    be   IM^ 

founi 

Injudgmen 

furth 

r  off  from  hin 

by  far, 

■  r*«prfM 

>  tno  call 

ev«7  ««.  ii>i.t  adr 

UT-ISS.  PARADISE,  Cum)  XIX.  &0 

Than  mich  In  whoin  lib  name  waa  navet  known. 
Cbrietians  like  Ibese  Ibo  .Ethiop'  shall  condenui: 
When  tbat  (he  two  tustmblugea  sbaU  put; 
One  rich  eternally,  the  otlmr  poor- 

"  What  (nay  the  Pi^islsiu  aay  unta  yooi  kin^. 
When  lh?y  Bliall  see  that  voltuue.'  in  Uie  wbich 
All  their  di^rajse  is  writtru,  epiend  to  view  1 
There  utiidat  Alh«rtV  wotks  shall  that  be  read. 
Which  will  give  B[Kpdy  oiotiou  to  the  pea. 
When  Prague'  shall  luoum  her  deaolated  realm. 
There  shall  be  read  the  wo,  that  be'  doth  work 
With  hia  adulterate  money  on  the  Seine, 
Who  by  the  tuak  will  perish  ;  there  be  read 
The  Ihhating  pride,  that  makelh  foal  alike 
The  English  and  Scot,'  impatient  of  Ih^  bound. 
There  shall  be  seen  the  Spaniard'e  luxury  T 
The  delicate  living  there  of  the  Bohemian,' 
Who  still  to  worth  has  been  a  willing  stranger. 
The  bailer  of  Jerusalem'  shall  sea 
A  unit  for  his  virtue  ;  for  hia  ncea, 


<  ntl  vdxmL)    "  And  I  uw  Iba  JeuI.  inwll  and  (r»t, 
tud  1>er<m  tSail;  and  the  booln  wen  ppeneil :  and  uoUiec 

FBtfl  jadgeil  Dul  or  Ibou  tUbin  wlilcli  were  wiitten  ^  the 


operor  nbUlned  Ilui  Klniili^ai  tOr  his  nlileil  ion  RnOolph. 

•  Be]    Fblllp  IV.  of  Fcan'm.  altai  lbs  batlle  or  CDunrol, 
iiKi  Ihs  nmnlDBl  value  of  ih^  etdn!    ThU  ldii|  illail  In  cod- 

ilated  by  FBBhi  degtl  Uberll,  Duumaodo,  lib.  Iv.  up.  1!). 

•  TlH  Enfliak  nnJ  SDaL)    He  adverU  B>  lb*  dlipnWa  be- 
leaded  Id  the  FurgalDry,  Canla  viL  130. 
ilOBM  £T{t\ 


'f  9naLn.    II  teenii  ornboMa  thM  i 
nppniied,  of  hts  ejueme  inwmperancQ-    See  I 


iceslansll.  PmBsWrr.Caalo  vll.W. 
Jta.]  CbailH  U.  d(  KapLei  uul  Js- 
.    See  Nole  !□  Furgawry,  Canio  vil. 


r 


504  THE  VISION.  isi-n 

No  leiB  a  muk  than  million.    He,'  who  guards 
The  isle  of  tire  by  old  AnaliiHS  hoaor'd. 
Shall  find  hia  avorioo  there  and  cowardice ; 
And  lietler  lo  denote  hiB  littlenetB, 
The  writing  Riuit  be  letten  maini'd,  thai  speak 
Much  in  a  nrnrow  space.     All  there  shall  knon 
His  nncle'  and  his  biather'B'  filthy  doings, 
Who  so  renovra'd  a  nation  and  two  crowns 
Have  baalardized.*     And  they,  of  Portngal' 
And  Norway,*  thoro  shall  he  eipoaed,  witli  hira 
Of  RaUa,'  who  hath  counterfeited  iU 
The  cmn  of  Venice.     O  blesl  Hungary !' 
If  thou  uo  longer  patiently  aWdest 
Thy  ill-entrealing:  and,  O  blest  Nnvarro!*      flhe 
If  with  thy  mountsinouB  fprdle"  thou  nouldil  ar 


Pufjnlory,  Canlo 

!l.  lIT.'Tha'wB  of 

Uler  IB.  Kf  Aiuoa. 
Are  ii  SlcUr,  vbm 

^£ii;t'  • 

ame,,klngofSb)>.™ 

«n<IMlDom.,i™w 

Bm  piugsUiryTcB 

Jamet  II.  of  Aregon 

who  dlBl  la  JM. 

^._^a<.«rdi=rf^ 

"  Bome,"  Kceonlins  lo  Bemlio,  U  ■  pe> 
'  bsstaido  e  noo  legltlaio,"    DMi  Vili- 
B5.  Edi,.  l!iM.    Oih«r.h.veuoa.nu»dll 

of  PiKIUgal.    He 
Uie  rebel  llotu  son 

ratheUmoofDinle 
dlsd  in  1333,  arter  a 
m  teem  lo  bBYE  <le« 

Dlnny>lo>  tni  Un 
elEnofnesrlbnT-^ 
trved  the  <U|i»W 
V.  dap.  !S.  'fabaf 

•  JVbrraHF.]    Hs 

as  5". 

qnin,  kiBKafNnrwBf 

.i'jrsMrSi 

"  Biafimi.]  Tho  lElngrtom  of 
lime  diapuud  by  Carobeil.  ton  nr 
nnlBoi,  pilnre  of  Boberaln. 

eijlu  laaS)  iblioweU'cJH"! 
HI  ginlli.i    The  Prnnei 


if^•145.  PARADISE,  Canto  XX.  505 

In  eamest  of  that  day,  e'en  now  are  heard 
WailingB  and  eroans  in  Famagoata's  etieeto 
And  Nicosia's,  grudging  at  their  beast, 
Who  keepeth  even  footing  with  the  rest"* 


^N^^^^^^^^^^^^^^N^* 


CANTO  XX 


ARGUMENT. 


The  eagle  celebrates  the  praise  of  certain  kingSf  whote  do- 
rified  spirits  form  the  eye  of  the  bird.  In  the  papii  Is  Dn- 
Tid;  and,  in  the  circle  round  it,  Trajan,  HeieUah,  Coa- 
stantine,  William  II.  of  Sicily,  and  Riphens.  It  explains 
to  our  Poet,  how  the  souls  of  those  whom  he  supposed  to 
have  had  no  means  of  believing  in  Clsrlst,  came  to  be  In 
heaven;  and  concludes  with  an  admonitkm  against  pre- 
suming to  fathom  the  counsels  of  God. 

Whkn,  disappearing  from  our  hemisphere. 
The  world's  enlightener  vanishes,  and  day 
On  all  fides  wasteth ;  suddenly  the  sky, 
Erewhile  irradiate  only  with  his  beam. 
Is  yet  again  unfolded,  putting  forth 
Innumerable  lights  wherein  one  shines.' 
Of  such  vicissitude  in  heaven  I  thought ; 


1 Fhmagoata'a  streets 

jStuI  Jfieosia's.]  Cities  in  the  kingdom  of  Cyprus,  at  that 
time  ruled  by  Henry  II.,  a  pusillanimous  prince.  Vertot, 
Ifist.  des  Chev.  de  l^lte,  lib.  iii.  iv.  The  meaning  appears  to 
be,  that  the  complaints  made  by  those  cities  of  their  weak 
and  worthless  governor,  may  be  regarded  as  an  eamest  of  his 
eondemnation  at  the  last  doom. 

s  TTke  rest.]  "  Wise  Poet !"  thus  Landlno  concludes  his 
commentary  on  this  Canto ;  "  to  whom  the  human  race  owes 
obligations  for  having  thus  severely  reprehended  the  feults 
of  princes ;  since  these  are  not,  liice  the  errors  of  private 
persons,  harmful  to  one  or  a  few  only;  but  injure  all  the 
country  which  they  govern;  and  a  single  one  frequently 
causes  the  ruin  of  whole  nations."  Much  to  the  same  effect 
iB  a  memorable  sentence  of  Xenophon's  Agesilaus,  that  ex- 
cellent manual  for  princes,  xal  ras  niv  r&v  ISiutQv  iftap' 
rlas  irpdas  ^0epe,  ras  is  twv  dpxdvrwv  fLsydkai  ifys, 
Kolviov.  robs  liiv  6\tya,  roh^  Se  iroXAd  KaK&s  Siartdivai. 
C.  xi.  6.  Compare  also  ihe  opening  of  Demosthenes'  second 
Speech  against  Aristogiton. 

*  WTierein  one  shines.]  The  light  of  the  sun,  whence  he 
supposes  the  other  celestial  bodies  to  derive  their  light. 
Thus,  in  the  Convito,  p.  115.  "NuUo  sensibile,  &c."  •'No 
sensible  ol^ect  in  the  world  is  more  worthy  to  be  made  an 
example  of  the  deity,  than  the  sun,  which  with  sensible  light 
enlightens  first  itself  and  then  all  celestial  and  elementary 
bodies." 


\ 


Ab  tllQ  I 


THE  VISION. 

jrpal  sign,'  that  roaishaUBth  the  worid 
And  tbs  world's  leaden,  in  the  bleBsed  beak 
Whs  siloHl :  for  tliat  all  tboae  living  liglita, 
Waiing  in  splendor,  burst  forth  into  bodbb, 
Sach  as  from  memory  glide  and  fa 

Sweet  Love,  that  doBt  apparel  li 
IIdw  luetruus  was  (by  samUance  in  tlioee  sparklw 
Which  merely  ara  Imm  bnly  thonglila  inspin  ' 

Aftur"  ihe  [ireciouH  and  bright  beaming  «tc 
That  did  iugeoj  the  nxth  Uebt,  ceased  the  cl 
Of  Uieir  augelie  bella  ;  methooght  1  heard 
The  mumturiDg  of  a  river,  that  doth  foU 
From  rock  to  rock  tranapicuous,  making  kno 
The  richneaa  of  bis  apriug-head :  and  as  eooi 
Of  cittern,  at  tlie  ftet-board,  or  of  jripe, 
Is,  at  the  wind-bole,  modulatii  and  tiiued  ; 
Thua  up  the  iiecb,  na  it  were  hollow,  roae 
That  rannnuring  of  Iho  eagle  ;  and  forthwith 
Voiue  there  assumeit ;  and  thence  along  the  baak  ■ 
IsBued  in  form  of  words,  auoh  aa  my  heart 
Did  look  for,  on  whose  tablea  I  iitscribed  thei 

"  The  part'  in  me,  that  sees  and  beoia  ths  nm  | 
In  mortal  eRgles,"  it  began,  " 
Be  itoled  steadfastly  ;  for,  of  tlie  lires. 
That  figure  mi',  those,  gljtle  ' 
Arc  cliief  of  all  the  greatest. 
Midmost  for  pupil,  was  the  same  who*  sai 
The  Holy  Spirit's  song,  and  bare  about 
The  ark  from  town  to  (ownt  now  doth  he  kiuo  | 
The  merit  of  hia  soul-unpaaaion'd  sttaina 
By  tiieir  well-fitted  gaerdon.     Of  tha  five, 
That  mnke  the  circle  of  the  vision,  he,' 
Who  lo  the  heak  is  ueniesi,  comforted 
The  widon'  foe  her  son ;  now  doth  he  know. 
How  dear  It  costelh  not  to  follow  Christ ; 
Both  from  eiperience  of  this  pleasant  tife. 
And  of  lis  opposite,     fio  next,'  who  follows 
In  the  circuiufbrEncB,  for  tho  over-arch. 
By  true  repenting  slaek'd  the  pace  of  dealh ! 

'  TTiagTcatiigni    The  eagle.  Ihe  Iiupcrlal  en>l|B. 


agle  ii  nea  lo  prolite,  so  Ihst  oae  oyc  unJ] 
>  ffi.]    TrojRD.    See  rufgnlaty,  Culo  X. 


47-73.  PARADISE,  Canto  XX.  507 

Now  knoweth  he,  that  the  decrees  of  heaven' 

Alter  not,  when,  through  pious  prayer  below. 

To-day  is  made  to-morrow*s  destiny. 

The  other  following,^  with  the  laws  and  me. 

To  yield  the  shepherd  room,  pass'd  o'er*  to  Greece ; 

From  good  intent,  producing  evil  fruit : 

Now  knoweth  he,  how  all  the  ill,  derived 

From  his  well  doing,  doth  not  harm  him  aught ; 

Though  it  have  brought  destruction  on  the  world. 

That,  which  thou  seest  in  the  under  bow, 

Was  William,^  whom  that  land  bewails,  which  weeps 

For  Charles  and  Frederick  living :  now  he  knows. 

How  well  is  loved  in  heaven  the  righteous  king ; 

Which  he  betokens  by  his  radiant  seeming. 

Who,  in  the  erring  world  beneath,  would  deem 

That  Trojan  Ripheus,^  in  this  round,  was  set, 

Fifth  of  the  saintly  splendors  ?  now  he  knows 

Enough  of  that,  which  the  world  cannot  see ; 

The  grace  divine :  albeit  e'en  his  sight 

Reach  not  its  utmost  depth."     Like  to  the  lark, 

That  warbling  in  the  air  expatiates  long, 

Then,  trilling  out  his  last  sweet  melody. 

Drops,  satiate  with  the  sweetness ;  such  appeared 

That  image,  stamp'd  by  the  everlasting  pleasure, 

Which  fashions,  as  they  are,  all  things  that  be. 

I,  though  my  doubting  were  as  manifest. 
As  is  through  glass''  the  hue  that  mantles  it, 

1  7%e  decrees  of  heavenJ]  The  eternal  counsels  of  God  are 
indeed  immutable,  though  they  appear  to  us  men  to  be  altered 
by  the  prayers  of  the  pious. 

^  The  other  following.]  Constantine.  There  is  no  passage, 
in  which  Dante's  opinion  of  the  evil  that  had  arisen  from  the 
mixture  of  the  civil  with  the  ecclesiastical  power,  is  more 
unequivocally  declared. 

»  Passed  o'er.]  "  I/sft  the  Roman  state  to  the  Pope,  and 
transferred  the  seat  of  the  empire  to  Constantinople." 

4  jrUliam.]  William  II.  king  of  Sicily,  at  the  latter  part 
of  the  tweluh  century.  He  was  of  the  Norman  line  of 
sovereigns,  and  obtained  the  appellation  of  "the  Good;'* 
and,  as  the  Poet  says,  his  loss  was  as  much  the  subject  of 
regret  in  his  dominions,  as  the  presence  of  Charles  II.  of  An- 
jou,  and  Frederick  of  Aragon,  was  of  sorrow  and  complaint. 

6  Trojan  Ripheus.]  m 

Ripheus  justLssimus  unns 
Qui  fnit  in  Teucris,  et  servantissimus  cequi. 

Virff.,  JEn.,  lib.  ii.  427. 
Then  Ripheus  fell,  the  justest  far  of  all 
The  sons  of  Troy.  Pitt. 

«  Through  glass.]  This  is  the  only  allusion  I  have  re- 
marked in  our  author  to  the  art  of  painting  glass.  Tirabo- 
schi  traces  that  invention  in  Italy  as  far  back  as  to  the  end  of 


50B  THE  VISION, 

lo  ffllenco  visiled  not ;  fi>r  to  my  lips 
"  What  thlngB  are  Iheee?"  involuntary  todi'd, 
And  toiced  a.  pa»t^  out:  vtiereat  I  laark'ii 
A  sudden  Ughtening  and  new  revelry. 
The  eye  was  kindled ;  and  the  blesaed  sign, 
No  moie  lo  keep  me  wondcnng  and  Biupeoae, 
Replied :  "  I  see  that  thou  believes!  Ihase  tlung 
Because  I  loU  them,  bnt  diseera'Bt  not  how; 
80  that  thy  knowledge  waits  not  on  thy  fajtb: 
^Aa  onej  who  knowa  the  name  of  Ihinif  hy  rotej 
But  is  a  alranger  lo  iu  propertiea. 
Till  other's  tongue  toveai  them.     Fervent  love, 
And  lively  hope,  with  violence  aasail 
The  kingdom  of  the  heavens,  and  overcome 
The  wUI  of  the  Moot  High  ;  not  in  soch  wit 
Ab  maa  prevails  o'er  man :  but  conquera  it, 
Because  'tis  willing  to  be  conqnet'd  ;  still, 
Though  conquer'd,  by  its  mercy,  conqneriaE. 

"'nioee,  in  the  eye  who  live  the  finit  ijadEfUii 
Cauee  Ihee  lo  marvel,  in  that  thou  behold'it 
The  region  of  the  angels  deck'd  with  them. 
They  quilted  not  their  bodies,  as  thou  deem'ft 
Greatiles,  hot  Christians ;  in  firm  rooted  iiiilh, 
This,'  of  the  feet  in  fatmv  to  be  pierced, 
That,'  of  feet  naii'd  already  to  the  cross, 
One  from  (he  barrier  of  the  dark  abyas. 
Where  never  any  with  good  will  rettimB, 
Came  back  imto  his  booes.     Of  hvely  hope 
Such  was  tbo  meed ;  of  lively  hope,  that  wing'J 
The  prayers'  sent  up  lo  God  for  hia  releaw 


cl^bih  d> 


"    Hiatary  of  Bturlitk  Peary,  vol.  I 
■II  iMn  .uJowlng  puiBge  trom  the  DIlIanKiE 
ilcgU  OtHinl,  lib.  V.  cap.  3,  the  allaiioa  Ii  lo  mos 
E  pDDsa  s'  Hi  vodDlo  e  poBlD  coTB, 

NcIIb  jiJu  niilHl  panl  gW  loo  woipie, 
Kil  e  coQverflo  nel  men  gll  p^ii  SUDLI- 

I  TKia]    RlpliBus. 

:  7»«.]    TraJMi. 

°  Tkeprmirrt.^    The  pmyen  of  81.  Ore|[oty. 


104-140.  PARADISE,  Canto  XXI  509 

And  put  power  into  thorn  to  bend  His  will. 

The  glorious  Spirit,  of  whom  I  speak  to  thee, 

A  little  while  returning  to  the  flesh, 

Believed  in  him,  who  had  the  means  to  help ; 

And,  in  believing,  nourished  such  a  flame 

Of  holy  love,  that  at  the  second  death 

He  was  made  sharer  in  our  gamesome  mirth 

The  other,  through  the  riches  of  that  grace,  | 

Which  from  so  deep  a  fountain  doth  d^il,  ^  ' 

As  never  eye  created  saw  its  rising. 

Placed  all  his  love  below  on  just  and  right : 

Wherefore,  of  grace,  God  oped  in  him  the  eye 

To  the  redemption  of  mankind  to  come  ; 

Wherein  believing,  he  endured  no  more 

The  filth  of  Paganism,  and  for  their  ways 

Rebuked  the  stubborn  nations.     The  three  nymphs,' 

Whom  at  the  right  wheel  thou  beheld'st  advancing. 

Were  sponsors  for  him,  more  than  thousand  years 

Before  baptizing.     O  how  far  removed, 

Predestination  !  is  thy  root  from  such 

As  see  not  the  First  Cause  entire :  and  ye, 

O  mortal  men !  be  wary  how  ye  judge : 

For  we,  who  see  our  Maker,  know  not  yet 

The  number  of  the  chosen  ;  and  esteem 

Such  scantiness  of  knowledge  our  delight : 

For  all  our  good  is,  in  that  primal  good, 

Concentrate  ;  and  God's  wUl  and  ours  are  one." 

So,  by  that  form  divine,  was  given  to  me 
Sweet  medicine  to  clear  and  strengthen  sight 
And,  as  one  handling  skilfully  the  harp, 
Attendant  on  some  skilful  songster's  voice 
Bids  the  chord  vibrate  ;  and  therein  the  song 
Acquires  more  pleasure  :  so  the  whilst  it  spake. 
It  doth  remember  me,  that  I  beheld 
The  pair^  of  blessed  luminaries  move. 
Like  the  accordant  twinkling  of  two  eyes. 
Their  beamy  circlets,  dancing  to  the  sounds. 


CANTO    XXI. 


ARGUMENT. 

Dante  ascends  with  Beatrice  to  the  seventh  heaven,  which 
is  the  planet  Saturn ;  wherein  is  placed  a  ladder,  so  lofty, 

1  The  three  nymphs.]    Faith,  Hope,  and  Charity.    Purgato- 
ry, Canto  xxix.  116. 
>  7%«  pair.]    Riphens  and  Trajan. 


=^-( 


BDil  ends  W  decli 


In  ttioH  times. 


Again  mine  eyes  were  Gx*d  on  Beatrice  ; 
And,  with  mine  oypa,  iny  soul  that  in  her  ]i 
Found  nil  conlonlmenL     Yet  no  smile  she  i 
"And,  "  Did  I  smile,"  quoth  she,  "  thou  wooWsl  It 
Like  Seroele  when  into  asbro  tiim'd  :  [rtruight 

For,  mounting  these  etern&l  palaco-ctatis, 
My  beauty,  wliich  the  loftier  it  climbs. 
As  thou  hast  noted,  still  doth  kindle  more. 
So  shines,  thai,  wore  no  t(nn|iering  interposed, 
Thy  mortal  puiEEance  would  from  its  rays 
Shrink,  OB  the  leaf  dolh  &om  the  thuodecbolt 
Into  tlie  seventh  splendor'  are  we  wofted. 
That,  uuderneiLtb  the  buming  hon's  breast,' 
Beams,  in  this  hour,  commin^od  with  bis  might. 
Thy  mind  be  with  thine  eyes;  and,  in  them,  mimitff 
The  shape,  which  in  this  mirror  shall  be  sbown." 

WhoBo  can  deem,  how  fondly  I  hod  fed 
My  sight  upon  her  blissful  coimteaance, 
Mny  know,  when  to  new  thoughts  I  changed,  v 
To  do  the  bidding  of  my  heaveuly  guide ;  ' 

In  equal  balance,'  piKsiug  either  weight. 

Within  the  ciyelal,  which  records  the  name 
(As  its  remoter  circle  girds  the  worid) 
Of  that  loved  monitrch,'  in  whoso  happy  reign 
No  ill  had  power  to  harm,  I  saw  roar'd  np, 
In  color  like  to  sun-Illumined  gold, 
A  [adder,  which  my  ken  pursued  in  vain, 
Bo  lofty  was  the  summit ;  dawn  whose  stepB 
I  saw  tbe  splendora  in  aucli  multilade 


Bestirring  them  lo  dry  their  fentliers  chill, 

1  Tie  antnlh  tjilcadiit.]    Tbo  plane 

'  Tke  iuniing  lion;  hrsut.]    Tlio  c 

■/n«sin.m|-iTin-Ul    "  Lei  the  rnrm  which  Ihon  •lujl  «< 

bebalil  In  ihli  mirror, ''  the  planet,  IhnI  ii,  of  BsuUhJiM 

Ibr  I'lehl." 

<  Ik  KjMol  baianee-]    '*  My  iilnuuie  wu 
leg  with  ber  wUI.  u  Id  Inholdliic  bat  civ 


n-78.  PARADISE,  Canto  XXI.  511 

Some  speed  their  way  a-field ;  and  homeward  some 
Betuming,  croBs  their  fli^t ;  while  some  abide, 
And  wheel  around  their  airy  lodge :  bo  8eem*d 
That  glitterance,'  wailed  on  alternate  wing, 
As  upon  certain  stair  it  came,  and  clash'd 
Its  shining.     And  one,  lingering  near  us,  wax'd 
So  bright,  that  in  my  thought  I  said ,  "  The  love. 
Which  this  betokens  me,  admits  no  doubt" 

Unwilimgly  from  question  I  refrain ; 
To  her,  by  whom  my  silence  and  my  speech 
Are  ordei^d,  looking  for  a  sign :  whence  she, 
Who  in  the  sight  of  Him,  that  seeth  all. 
Saw  wherefore  I  was  silent,  prompted  me 
To  indulge  the  fervent  wish ;  and  I  began : 
"  I  am  not  worthy,  of  my  own  desert, 
That  thou  fehouldst  answer  me :  but  for  her  sake. 
Who  hath  vouchsafed  my  asking,  spirit  blest, 
That  in  thy  joy  art  shrouded  !  say  the  cause, 
Which  bringeth  thee  so  near :  and  wherefore,  say. 
Doth  the  sweet  symphony  of  Paradise 
Keep  silence  here,  pervading  with  such  sounds 
Of  rapt  devotion  every  lower  sphere  ?" 
'*  Mortal  art  thou  in  hearing,  as  in  sight ;" 
Was  the  reply :  "  and  what  forbade  the  smile' 
Of  Beatrice  interrupts  our  song. 
Only  to  yield  thee  gladness  of  my  voice. 
And  of  the  light  that  vests  me,  I  thus  far 
Descend  these  hallow'd  steps :  not  that  more  love 
Invites  me  ;  for,  lo  !  there  aloft,'  as  much 
Or  more  of  love  is  witnessed  in  those  flames : 
But  such  my  lot  by  charity  assigned, 
That  makes  us  ready  servants,  as  thou  seest. 
To  execute  the  counsel  of  the  Highest." 

"  That  in  this  court,"  said  I,  "  O  sacred  lamp  ! 
Love  no  compulsion  needs,  but  follows  free 
The  eternal  Providence,  I  well  discern : 
This  harder  find  to  deem ;  why,  of  thy  peers. 
Thou  only,  to  this  office  wert  foredoom'd." 

I  had  not  ended,  when,  like  rapid  mill. 
Upon  its  centre  whirl'd  the  light ;  and  then 

1  7%at  fflitterance.]  duello  sfavillar.  That  multitude  of 
shining  sj^ts,  who,  coming  to  a  certain  point  of  the  ladder, 
made  mose  different  movements,  which  he  has  described  as 
made  by  the  birds. 

s  TVTkat  forbade  the  smile.]  "  Because  it  would  have  over- 
come thee." 

•  T%ere  aloft.]    Where  the  other  souls  were. 


A\ 


613 


THE  vrsias. 


■ra-iM. 


The  love  Ihal  did  inhnlHt  there,  coplied  i 

"  Splendor  eternal,  piercing  through  thesp  Mik, 

Its  virtue  to  my  virion,  knits ;  and  thOB 

Supported,  lilifl  roo  eo  alwye  myself. 

That  on  the  soreTeign  eaence,  which  it  wtWs  froni, 

I  huve  the  power  to  gaze  :  and  hence  the  jay, 

Wherewith  1  sparkle,  equalling  with  my  blue 

The  keenness  of  my  sight.     But  not  the  soul,' 

That  ia  in  heaven  most  luBtrouB,  nor  the  seraph, 

That  hath  his  eyes  most  fix'd  on  God,  ehsll  solve 

What  thou  hast  aak'd :  for  in  the  tibyes  il  \'m 

or  th'  everiasting  statute  sunk  so  low, 

That  no  created  ken  may  fathom  it. 

And,  Ifl  the  mortal  world,  when  thou  retom'H, 

Bo  this  repotted ;  that  none  henceforth  dare 

Direct  his  footsteps  to  so  dread  a  bourn.  i 

The  mmd,  that  here  is  radiant,  on  the  eaitli 

Is  wrapt  in  mist-     Look  then  if  she  laay  do 

Below,  what  paseeth  her  ability 

When  she  is  ta'en  to  heaven."     By  words  like  tint 

Admonish'd,  I  the  ijuestion  urged  no  more ; 

And  uf  tho  spirit  humbly  sued  alone 

To  instruct  me  of  its  state.    "  'Twixt  either  shore' 

Of  Italy,  nor  dislaut  from  thy  land, 

A  stony  ridge'  ariseth  ;  in  such  sort, 

Tho  thunder  doth  not  lift  his  voice  so  hi^i. 

They  call  it  Calna  :*  at  whose  foot,  a  cell 

la  aacrod  to  the  lonely  Eremite  ; 

For  worship  set  apart  and  holy  rites." 

A  third  time  thus  it  spake  ;  then  added  ;  "  TlwH' 

So  Qrnily  to  God^s  service  1  adhered, 

Thai  with  no  costlier  viands  than  the  juii 


i 

I 

4 


Of  SI 


id  the 


''Ticia  rilAtr iHarc]  Belwceatiio  AilrlnUc  Eal(» 
'  Jl  tlaas  ridgt,]  A  pan  of  ItlH  Apennine.  KMHtsli 
ac  f  d^it.    Bbb  GsJarord's  Poene  Ulnom  GnRi,  t.  i.  p. 


100-124.  PARADISE,  Canto  XXI.  513 

To  render  to  these  heavens :  now  'tis  fallen 

Into  a  waste  so  empty,  that  ere  long 

Detection  must  lay  bare  its  vanity. 

Pietro  Damiano^  there  was  I  yclept : 

Pietro  the  sinner,  when  before  I  dwelt, 

Beade  the  Adriatic,^  in  the  house 

Of  our  blest  Lady.     Near  upon  my  close 

Of  mortal  life,  through  much  importuning 

I  was  constrained  to  wear  the  hat,'  that  still 

From  bad  to  worse  is  shifted. — Cephas*  came ; 

He  came,  who  was  the  Holy  Spirit's  vessel  ;* 

Barefoot  and  lean ;  eating  their  bread,  as  chanced, 

At  the  first  table.     Modem  Shepherds  need 

Those  who  on  either  hand  may  prop  and  lead  them, 

So  burly  are  they  grown  ;  and  from  behind, 

Others  to  hoist  them.     Down  the  palfrey's  sides 

^  Pietro  Damiano.]  *'  S.  Pietro  Damiano  obtained  a  great 
and  well-merited  reputation,  by  the  pains  he  took  to  correct 
the  abuses  among  the  clergy.  Ravenna  is  supposed  to  have 
been  the  place  of  his  birth,  about  1007.  He  was  employed 
in  several  important  missions,  and  rewarded  by  Stephen  IX. 
with  the  dignity  of  cardinal,  and  the  bishopric  of  Ostia,  to 
which,  however,  he  preferred  his  former  retreat  in  the  monas- 
tery of  Fonte  Aveliana,  and  prevailed  on  Alexander  II.  to 
permit  him  to  retire  thither.  Yet  he  did  not  long  continue 
m  this  seclusion,  before  he  was  sent  on  other  embassies.  He 
died  at  Faenza  in  1072.  His  letters  throw  much  light  on  the 
obscure  history  of  these  times.  Besides  them,  he  has  left 
several  treatises  on  sacred  and  ecclesiastical  subjects.  His 
eloquence  is  worthy  of  a  better  age."  THrahoachi,  Storia 
delta  ZtcU.  Ital.,  tom.  iii.  lib.  iv.  cap.  ii.  He  is  mentioned  by 
Petrarch  de  Vita  Solit.,  lib.  ii.  $  iii.  cap.  xvii.  "  Siquidem 
statum  ilium,  pompasque  sa;culi  suis  contribulibns  linquens, 
ipse  Italise  medio,  ad  sinistrum  Apennini  latus,  quietissimam 
solitudinem,  de  qua  multa  conscrlpsit,  et  quae  vetus  adhuc 
fontis  Avellane  nomen  servat,  perituris  honoribus  preferen- 
dam  duzit,  ubi  non  minus  gloriose  postmodum  latuit  quam 
innotuerat  primum  Rome,  nee  dedecori  illi  Aiit  alti  verticis 
rutilnm  decus  squalenti  ciiicio  permutasse."  Petrarcka 
Opera.  Basil.  1571,  p.  266. 

9  Beside  the  .Adriatic]  Some  editions  and  manuscripts 
have  "  fu,"  instead  of  "  fui."  According  to  the  former  of 
these  readings,  S.  Pietro  Damiano  is  made  to  distinguish 
himself  from  S.  Pietro  degli  Onesti,  sumamed  "II  Peccator," 
founder  of  the  monastery  of  S.  Maria  del  Porto,  on  the  Adri- 
atic coast,  near  Ravenna,  who  died  1119,  at  about  eighty  years 
of  age.  If  it  could  be  ascertained  that  there  was  no  religious 
house  dedicated  to  the  blessed  Virgin,  before  that  founded  by 
Pietro  degli  Onesti,  to  which  the  other  Pietro  might  have  be- 
longed, this  reading  would,  no  doubt,  be  preferable ;  but  at 
present  it  seems  very  uncertain  which  is  the  right. 

*  The  hat.]    The  cardinal's  hat. 

*  Cephas.]    St.  Peter. 

»  The  Holy  Spirit's  vessel.]  St.  Paul.  See  Hell,  Canto  ii.  30. 

33 


\ 


514  THE  VISION.  135-ias. 

Spread  their  broad  mantles,  n  OB  both  the  beasli 
Aid  coveted  witb  one  aliui.     O  patleuce  !  IhoD 
That  ionk'at  oa  this,  and  dnt  enduie  ao  long." 

1  at  thoae  accenta  bhw  Ihe  BpUndon  don-n 
From  step  to  step  alight,  and  wheel,  aud  wax, 
Each  circuiting,  more  beautiful.     Houud  Ihii' 
They  come,  and  stay'd  them ;  utter'd  then  a  ahoiil 
So  loud,  it  hath  no  Idteaeae  here ;  nor  I 
Wist  what  it  epake,  bo  deafening  was  the  Ihimder. 

CANTO   XXII. 

ABGUMSHT. 

flfl  tmholild  mjuiy  other  iplriLa  of  the  devont  and  nnlflmpli- 

live ;    ODtL  UDDnB  iheBd  it  addresBed   by  flainl  BnvJick 

tejn  of  bis  rampantona  in  bllu,  mplics  10  Ihe  requHt  zoidft 
by  onr  Pool  Ihal  he  iDlgbl  look  on  the  tana  or  IhenlU. 

and  Iben  pracaedi.  luUy,  Ig  inle^h  iimliial  lbs  corniiilbi 
nfibBDiaiika.  NaitDiinlBiuDaiitiwIth  hlihesvsnlrw 
itaciTBH  la  Ihe  sigtalh  beanu,  or  that  uT  Ihe  fiiEd  uiil 


3,  to  the  guardiun  of  my  steps 
I  lum  □  me,  like  Ihe  child,  who  always  runa 

And  sho  was  like  the  mother,'  who  her  son 
Beholding  pale  and  brealhlesa,  with  her  voice 
Sooths  him,  and  he  is  cheer'd  ;  for  thus  she  spakr, 
t^oolhing  mo  :  "  Enow'at  not  thou,  thou  art  in  hFiveu' 
And  know'at  not  thou,  whatever  ia  ui  heaven. 
Is  holy ;  Itnd  that  nothing  there  is  done, 
But  i»  dono  zealously  and  well  7     Deem  Don-, 
What  change  in  thee  Ihe  song,  and  what  my  umilc 
Had  wrought,  since  thna  the  shont  had  powM  I" 


16-38.  PARADISE,  Canto  XXII.  515 

The  sword  of  heaven  is  not  in  haste  to  smite, 
Nor  yet  doth  linger ;  save  unto  his  seeming, 
Who,  in  desire  or  fear,  doth  look  for  it. 
Bat  elsewhere  now  I  bid  thee  torn  thy  view  ; 
So  shalt  thou  many  a  famous  spirit  behold." 

Mine  eyes  directing,  as  she  will'd,  I  saw 
A  hundred  little  spheres,  that  fairer  grew 
By  interchange  of  splendor.     I  remained, 
As  one,  who  fearful  of  o'emiuch  presuming. 
Abates  in  him  the  keenness  of  desire, 
Nor  dares  to  question ;  when,  amid  those  pearls, 
One  largest  and  most  lustrous  onward  drew. 
That  it  might  yield  contentment  to  my  wish  ; 
And,  from  within  it,  these  the  sounds  I  heard. 

'<  If  thou,  like  me,  beheld'st  the  charity 
That  bums  among  us  ;  what  thy  mind  conceives. 
Were  utter'd.     But  that,  ere  the  lofty  bound 
Thou  reach,  expectance  may  not  weary  thee  ; 
I  will  make  answer  even  to  the  thought, 
Which  thou  hast  such  respect  of.     In  old  days, 
That  mountain,  at  whose  side  Cassino^  rests. 
Was,  on  its  height,  frequented  by  a  race^ 
Deceived  and  ill-disposed :  and  I  it  was,' 

1  Cassino.]  A  castle  in  the  Tenra  di  Lavoro.  "  The  learned 
Benedictine,  D.  Angelo  della  Noce,  in  his  notes  on  the  chron- 
icle of  the  monastery  of  Cassino,  (Not.  cxi.)  corrects  the 
error  of  Ciaverius  and  Eftenus,  who  describe  Cassino  as  situ- 
ated in  the  same  place  where  the  monastery  now  is ;  at  the 
same  time  conmiending  the  veracity  of  onr  author  in  this 
passage,  which  places  Cassino  on  the  side  of  the  mountain, 
and  points  oat  the  monastery  founded  by  Saint  Benedict  on 
Its  summit."    Lomhardi. 

>  Fregvented  by  a  race.]  Lombardi  here  cites  an  apposite 
passage  from  the  writings  of  Pope  Saint  Gregory.  "  Mons 
tria  millia,"  &c.  Dialog.,  lib.  ii.  cap.  8.  "The  mountain, 
rising  for  the  space  of  three  miles,  stretches  its  top  towards 
the  sky,  where  was  a  very  ancient  temple,  in  which,  after 
the  manner  of  the  old  heathens,  Apollo  was  worshipped  by 
the  foolish  rustics.  On  every  side,  groves  had  sprung  up  in 
honor  of  the  false  gods ;  and  in  these,  the  mad  multitude  of 
unbelievers  still  tended  on  their  unhallowed  sacrifices.  There 
then  the  man  of  Grod  (Saint  Benedict)  arriving,  beat  in  pieces 
the  idols ;  overturned  the  altar ;  cut  down  the  groves ;  and, 
in  the  very  temple  of  Apollo,  built  the  shrine  of  Saint  Mar- 
tin, placing  that  of  Saint  John  where  the  altar  of  Apollo  had 
stood ;  and,  by  his  continual  preaching,  called  the  multitude 
that  dwelt  round  about  to  the  true  faith." 

•  lit  was.]  "  A  new  order  of  monks,  which  in  a  manner 
absorbed  ail  the  others  that  were  established  in  the  west,  was 
instituted,  A.  D.  529,  by  Benedict  of  Nursia,  a  man  of  piety 
and  reputation  for  the  age  he  lived  in."  Maelaine'a  Mosheim. 
Eedea,  Hist.,  vol.  ii.  cent.  vi.  p.  2,  C.  2,  $  G. 


A 


f( 


518  Tlie  VISION.  aw 

Wbo  Uiithcr  cuiTicd  first  tlie  naiae  of  Him, 
Who  braugbt  the  Boul-eublimlug  truth  to  man. 
And  such  a  speeding  gmce  ebons  over  me, 
TliaC  from  thcii  impious  worship  1  reclaim'd 
Tbe  dwellen  rannd  about,  trho  with  the  waiii 
Were  in  dslunon  loat.    Tlieae  other  Qamee, 
The  Bpirils  of  men  contemplative,  were  all 
Enhven'd  by  that  warmth,  trhose  kindly  force 
GireB  birth  to  fiowera  and  fmifa  of  holinesi. 
Here  is  Macntins ;'  Romoaldo'  here ; 

Within  the  cloisters,  and  hi:ld  ^rm  their  heart" 

I  answering  tbns :  "  Thy  gentle  words  and  kuui, 
And  this  the  ehoerful  semblance  I  behold. 
Not  unobservant,  beaming  In  ye  all, 
HaTe  raised  assnrance  in  me  [  wakening  it 
Fnll-bloBsom'd  in  my  bosom,  as  a  rose 
Before  the  ann,  when  the  consummate  flower 
Has  spread  ta  utmost  amplitude.     Of  thee 
Therefon  entreat  I,  father,  to  declare 
If  I  may  gain  such  favor,  as  to  gaie 
Upon  thine  image  by  no  covering  veil'd." 

"  Brother  !"  lie  thus  raioiu'd,  "  in  the  IsA  sphen 
Eipeet  compielion  of  thy  loHy  aim : 
For  tlipre  on  each  desire  completion  waits. 
And  there  on  mine ;  where  every  aim  is  faand 
Perfect,  entire,  and  for  fuMbiicnt  ripe. 
There  all  things  are  as  they  have  ever  been: 
For  space  is  none  to  bound  ;  nor  pole  divides. 
Our  ladder  reaches  even  to  that  clime ; 
And  so,  at  giddy  distance,  mocks  thy  view. 
Thither  the  patriarcli  Jocob'  saw  it  stretch 


the  Grtt  muk  among  the  prartLcQl  wi^Len  of  Ihii 
Is  works  dEspLayed,  aoma  law  ttiEugi  excepted,  flip 
— '  — si  lovely  portTEitniB  of  MiiclKy  and  ^tloB-" 


71-110.  PARADISE,  Canto  XXU.  617 

Its  topmost  round ;  when  it  appeared  to  him 

With  angels  laden.     But  to  mount  it  now 

None  lifts  his  foot  from  earth :  and  hence  my  rule 

Is  left  a  profitless  stain  upon  the  leaves  ; 

The  walls,  for  abhey  rear'd,  tum'd  into  dens  ; 

The  cowls,  to  sacks  choked  up  with  musty  meal. 

Foul  usury  doth  not  more  lift  itself 

Against  God's  pleasure,  than  that  fruit,  which  makes 

The  hearts  of  monks  so  wanton :  for  whatever 

Is  in  the  church's  keeping,  all  pertains 

To  such,  as  sue  for  heaven's  sweet  sake ;  and  not 

To  those,  who  in  respect  of  kindred  claim, 

Or  on  more  vile  allowance.     Mortal  flesh 

Is  grown  so  dainty,  good  beginnings  last  not 

From  the  oak's  birth  unto  the  acorn's  setting. 

His  convent  Peter  founded  without  gold 

Or  silver ;  I,  with  prayers  and  fasting,  mine  ; 

And  Francis,  his  in  meek  humility. 

And  if  thou  note  the  point,  whence  each  proceeds, 

Then  look  what  it  hath  err'd  to  ;  thou  shalt  find 

The  white  grown  murky.    Jordan  was  tum'd  back  : 

And  a  less  wonder,  than  the  refluent  sea, 

May,  at  God's  pleasure,  work  amendment  here." 

So  saying,  to  his  assembly  back  he  drew : 
And  they  toff ether  cluster'd  into  one  ; 
Then  all  roll  d  upward,  like  an  eddying  wind. 

The  sweet  dame  beckon'd  me  to  follow  them : 
And,  by  that  influence  only,  so  prevail'd 
Over  my  nature,  that  no  natural  motion. 
Ascending  or  descending  here  below, 
Had,  as  I  mounted,  with  my  pennon  vied. 

So,  reader,  as  my  hope  is  to  return 
Unto  the  holy  triumph,  for  the  which 
I  oft-times  wail  my  sins,  and  smite  my  breast ; 
Thou  hadst  been  longer  drawing  out  and  thrusting 
Thy  finger  in  the  fire,  than  I  was,  ere 
The  sign,'  that  folio weth  Taurus,  I  behold. 
And  enter'd  its  precinct.     O  glorious  stars  ! 
O  light  impregnate  with  exceeding  virtue  ! 
To  whom  whate'er  of  genius  lifteth  me 


heaven :  and  behold  the  angels  of  God  ascending  and  descend 
ing  on  it."  Oen.  xxviU.  12.    So  Milton,  P.  L.,  b.  iii.  510. 

The  stairs  were  such,  as  whereon  Jacob  saw 
Angels  ascending  and  descending,  bands 
Of  guardians  bright 

^  The  sign.]    The  constellation  of  Gendid 


518 


TILE  VI810R. 


AboTB  Ibe  vulgar,  erateful  I  ri 
With  yn  tUo  parenl'  of  all  mon 


mortal  life 
Arwe  aiul  set,  when  I  did  ficst  iahale 
ThB  Tmciui  ill ;  aad  aftecwttrd,  when  gi 
Vaachaafed  me  entranco  (a  the  lofty  who 
That  in  iu  orb  impela  yo,  iato  deoreid 
My  passBgo  at  your  clima.     "Po  you  my  i 
Devoutly  aighB,  for  virtue,  evBQ  noiv. 
To  meet  the  hard  emprize  that  draws  me 

"  Thou  art  eo  near  the  earn  of  bleraodi 
Said  Beatrice,  "  thai  behoovea  thy  ken 
Be  vlgilaut  and  clear.     Aud.  to  this  end, 
Or  ever  thou  advance  thcG  further,  beoot 
Look  downward,  and  contemplate. 
Already  atretcii'd  under  our  foot  Ihi 
So  as  thy  heart  may,  ui  ila  blithsat 
Present  itself  to  the  Lriumphal  thrai 
Whicli,  Ihiougb  the    e  the  real  cum 

I  slraight  ohoy'd  ;  and  with  mine    _ 
Through  all  the  seven  sphoreB ;  and  aaw  ItiiB  globs'  % 
Ho  piliful  of  semblaoEe,  thai  perforce 
It  movedmy  amilos:  and  him  hi  truth  I  hold 
For  wisest,  wbo  esteems  it  least  j  whoee  Lhonghls 
Elsewhere  are  Gx^df  him  worthiest  call  aud  b 
I  saw  the  daughter  of  Lutona  ahine 
Without  the  riiadow.'  whereof  lale  I  dseiii*d 


That  dense  and  re 
The  vi 


Hen 


dove  Maiu  and  Diane  ;'  here  discern'd 
I  me  parmr.J  The  lUd  WHS  In  the  caiul 
I  The  left)  wtcsl.]  The  ei^lb  hesvea ;  Ih 
>  TMi  gliiii.]  So  Chancer,  TniUaa  and  Cn 
And  dows  ftoniihBniw  Auibsgnn  m 

AM  lbs  world  u  lo  mine  eye 
No  mon  Homed  (han  a  priko. 

Timplc  n/"  Ftna.  b, 
ominre  Cicero.  Soma.  Sdp.  "Jam  ipM,  lens  iDmlhlp 

<  ITifAoni  lie  .*iLiuB.]    See  CflJllD  U.  71. 


■F^ 


w. 


I 

I 


141-150.  PARADISE,  Canto  XXIII.  519 

Jove's  tempering  'twixt  his  sire  and  son  ;*  and  hence 
Their  changes  and  their  various  aspects. 
Distinctly  scann'd.     Nor  might  I  not  descry 
Of  all  the  seven,  how  bulky  each,  how  swift ; 
Nor,  of  their  several  distances,  not  learn. 
This  petty  area  (o'er  the  which  we  stride 
So  fiercely)  as  along  the  eternal  Twins 
I  wound  my  way,  appear'd  before  me  all, 
Forth  from  the  havens  stretch'd  unto  the  hills. 
Then,  to  the  beauteous  eyes,  mine  eyes  retum'd. 


CANTO    XXIII. 


ARGUMENT. 

He  sees  Christ  triumphing  with  his  church.  The  Saviour 
ascends,  followed  by  his  virgin  Mother.  The  others  re- 
main with  Saint  Peter. 

E'en  as  the  bu:d,  who  midst  the  leafy  bower 
Has,  in  her  nest,  sat  deurkling  through  the  night. 
With  her  sweet  brood ;  impatient  to  descry 
Then:  wished  looks,  and  to  bring  home  their  food. 
In  the  fond  quest  unconscious  of  her  toil : 
She,  of  the  time  prevenient,  on  the  spray, 
That  overhangs  their  couch,  with  wakeful  gaze 
Expects  the  sun ;  nor  ever,  till  the  daw  a, 
Removeth  from  the  east  her  eager  ken : 
So  stood  the  dame  erect,  and  bent  her  glance 
Wistfully  on  that  region,'*  where  the  sun 
Abateth  most  his  speed  ;  that,  seeing  her 
Suspense  and  wondering,  I  became  as  one. 
In  whom  dedie  is  waken'd,  and  the  hope 
Of  somewhat  new  to  come  fills  with  delight. 

Short  space  ensued ;  I  was  not  held,  I  say, 
Long  in  expectance,  when  I  saw  the  heaven 
Wax  more  and  more  resplendent ;  and  "  Behold," 
Cried  Beatrice,  "  the  triumphal  hosts 
Of  Christ,  and  all  the  harvest  gather'd  in, 
Made  ripe  by  these  revolving  spheres."     Meseem'd, 
That,  while  she  spake,  her  image  all  did  bum  ; 
And  in  her  eyes  such  fulness  was  of  joy, 
As  I  am  fain  to  pass  unconstrued  by. 

1 '  Twixt  his  sire  and  son."]    Betwixt  Saturn  and  Mars. 

«  That  region.]  Towards  the  south,  where  the  course  of 
the  sun  appears  less  rapid  than  when  he  is  in  the  east  or  \he 
west. 


J. 


^v 


530  THE  VISION.  Sm. 

Ab  ill  llie  calm  TuU  moon,  whaa  Tnvia'  smilee, 
In  peerless  lioauty,  'raid  the  etemaJ  Dympha,' 
Thai  paint  through  all  ils  gulb  the  blue  pcoraiinil  i 
In  brigtit  pre-emliience  to  aaw  I  there 
O'er  (oiUion  iompn  a  nm,  from  whom  all  drerr 
Their  ixdiance,  as  from  aun  the  etarry  Irain : 
Adc],  tlirongh  ihe  living  iigbl.  bo  IubUous  glow'cl 
TliH  Hubalonce,  tbot  my  ken  endured  it  nut. 

0  Beatrice  !  sweet  and  piedouB  guide. 
Wild  cbeer'd  me  with  her  corafort^e  wonla : 
"  Agsjnst  Che  virtue,  Ibal  o'erpaveretb  Ibae, 
Avails  oat  to  resist.     Here  is  the  Might,' 
And  here  (he  Wisdnm,  which  did  open  lay 
The  pstb,  that  had  been  yearned  tot  bo  long, 
Betwiit  the  heaven  and  enrtb."     Like  to  Ihe  Rre, 
That,  in  a  clond  imprison'd,  doth  break  oat 
Expansive,  so  that  from  iU  womb  enlarged, 

It  fallelh  against  natare  to  the  ground ; 
Tims,  in  (bat  bsavealy  banqueting,  my  soul 
OiilfTsw  heiEelf;  and,  in  the  transport  lost. 
Holds  now  remembrance  none  of  what  she  was. 

"Ope  then  thine  ayes,  and  mark  me!  thnu  hast  Mil 
Things,  that  empower  tbee  to  sustain  my  anule.* 

1  waa  as  ouc,  when  a  forgotten  dream* 
Doth  come  across  him,  and  ho  strives  in  vain 


Eurip-  Supp.,  905. 
Those  itarrr  nyniphii,  which  danco  ibgot  IhS  pOl» 

HoRitmvs  iinil  Harman  WDDld  dSimln  the  VMd  * 
"nympba,"  Iraip  lbi>  p«ihi«b1d  Eorl^det;  bnt  Ou  ai 
by  am  HDIhor  In  Ihe  wxt.  lends  to  prove  thai  11  |i  [fa* 
Ino  rendlnB:  and  ll  li  thos  that  poeli  of'tho  mon  t-,.., 
Biei,  anil  wlthuut  any  knowtedge  of  eSEta  otbal'*  wrlUM 
(Bit  we  can  uitiircoly  tuagina  DmIb  u  have  Tf'  ■'-  -'-^ 


ibM  tiaiUti,  hi  TheiEiltua  BDd  Tltallai.  an  ulsiBrv 

»  TSe  Jf^dt]    Oar  Saviour. 
*  J  /treatum  dn am.] 

Yob  nitghl  a»  >w.U 

Bool  halfa  day  Ibr  a  (brniluiB  dmam. 


50-85.  PARADISE,  Canto  XXIII.  521 

To  shape  it  in  his  fantasy  again : 

When  as  that  gracious  boon  was  proffer'd  me, 

Which  never  may  be  canceli'd  from  the  book 

Wherein  the  past  is  written.     Now  were  all 

Those  tongaes  to  sound,  that  have,  on  sweetest  milk 

Of  Polyhymnia  and  her  sisters,  fed 

And  fatten'd ;  not  with  all  their  help  to  boot. 

Unto  the  thousandth  parcel  of  the  truth, 

My  song  might  shadow  forth  that  saintly  smile, 

How  merely,  in  her  saintly  looks,  it  wrought 

And,  with  such  figuring  of  Paradise, 

The  sacred  strain  must  leap,  like  one  that  meets 

A  sudden  interruption  to  his  road. 

But  he,  who  thinks  how  ponderous  the  theme, 

And  that  'tis  laid  upon  a  mortal  shoulder. 

May  pardon,  if  it  tremble  with  the  burden. 

The  track,  our  venturous  keel  must  furrow,  brooks 

No  unribb*d  pinnace,  no  self-sparing  pilot. 

"  Why  doth  my  face,"  said  Beatrice,  "  thus 
Enamor  thee,  as  that  thou  dost  not  turn 
Unto  the  beautiful  garden,  blossoming 
Beneath  the  rays  of  Christ?    Here  is  the  rose,' 
Wherein  the  Word  Divine  was  made  incarnate ; 
And  here  the  lilies,^  by  whose  odor  known 
The  way  of  life  was  follow'd."     Prompt  I  heard 
Her  bidding,  and  encounter'd  once  again 
The  strife  of  aching  vision.    As,  erewhile. 
Through  glance  of  sun-light,  streamed  through  bro- 
ken cloud. 
Mine  eyes  a  flower-besprinkled  mead  have  seen ; 
Though  veil'd  themselves  in  shade :  so  saw  I  there 
Legions  of  splendors,  on  whom  burning  rays 
Shed  lightnings  from  above  ;  yet  saw  I  not 
The  fountain  whence  they  flow'd.   O  gracious  virtue ! 
Thou,  whose  broad  stamp  is  on  them,  higher  up 
Thou  didst  exalt  thy  glory,'  to  give  room 
To  my  o'erlabor'd  sight ;  when  at  the  name 


1  The  rose.]  The  Virgin  Mary,  who,  says  Lombardi,  is 
tenned  by  the  church,  Rosa  Mystica.  *'  I  was  exalted  like  a 
palm-tree  in  Engaddi,  and  as  a  rose-plant  in  Jericho."  Ee- 
elesiasticus,  xxiv.  14. 

9  The  lilies.]  The  Apostles.  "  And  give  ye  a  sweet  savor 
as  frankincense,  and  flourish  as  a  lily."  JEcclesiaatieuSf 
xxxix.  14. 

«  Thou  didst  exalt  thy  glorv.]  The  divine  light  retired  up- 
ward ;  to  render  the  eyes  of  Dante  more  capable  of  ew!i\aVD% 
the  apectacle  which  now  presented  Itself. 


Of  that  fair  floner,'  wliain  duly  I  invoke 
Both  mom  aud  eve,  my  soul  with  all  her  might 
Collected,  on  the  gaodlieat  oidai  Gi:'i]. 
And,  as  the  bngtit  dimeoBioiu  of  the  sisi 
[d  heaven  excelling,  as  odgs  here  on  eortli. 
Were,  in  my  eye-lialla  livelily  portray'd  ; 
Lo !  froai  within  the  sky  a  cresset'  fell, 
Citeliog  io  taahion  of  a  diadem  j 
And  girt  the  star ;  and,  hovering,  round  it  whei 

WhalevEr  melody  BOnnds  sweetest  here, 
And  draws  the  spirit  most  onto  itfielf. 
Might  seemiireQt  cloud,  when  it  grates  the  lliBi 
Compared  unto  the  fwnading  of  tliat  lyiCi* 
Wherewith  the  goodUeHt  sapphire/  that  inlays 
The  floor  of  heaven,  was  cmwu'd.     "  Angelic  1 
I  am,  who  thus  with  hovermg  flight  enwheel 
The  lofty  rapture  from  that  womb  inepired, 
Where  uur  deure  did  dwell :  aiid  round  thfe  eo, 
Lady  of  Heaven  !  will  hover ;  long  as  thcu 
Tliy  So[i  ehult  follow,  and  diviner  joy 
Shall  from  thy  presence  gild  the  highest  aidwre. 

Such  close  wan  (o  the  circling  melody: 
And,  as  it  ended,  all  the  other  lights 
Took  up  the  strain,  and  echoed  Maiy'a  nuM. 

The  robe,'  tliat  with  its  regal  folds  envtajB 
The  world,  and  with  the  nearer  breath  of  Gfld 
Doth  bum  and  quiver,  held  so  far  retired 
lU  itiner  hem  aiid  skirting  over  us. 
That  yet  no  glimmer  of  its  majesty 
Had  strf  am'd  ualo  me :  theielore  were  mina  q 
Unequal  to  pursue  the  crowned  flamB,' 
That  towering  rose,  and  sought  the  seed'  itbon. 
And  like  to  babe,  llml  stretches  forth  its  an 
^'or  very  eagerness  toward  the  breast. 
After  the  milk  is  token ;  so  outelretch'd 
Their  wavy  Bummits  all  the  fervent  band. 
Through  iiealous  love  lo  Mary;  then,  in  vie 


Of  ll^l /.iir  Jt<iti!in:]    The  narao  oflha  VUHn, 
>^c™m1.J    ThoMgelGalBtol. 
•  Thai  lnre.i    By  synocdoche,  (he  lyrelspntlWlliai 

'Tiirnmedjltiiuc.l    The  Virgin,  vrilh  «>•  »B(rt  1 


lsa-134.         PARADISE,  Canto  XXIV.  533 

There  halted ;  and  "  Regina  Cceli^'  sang 
So  sweetly,  the  delight  hath  left  me  never. 
Oh  I  what  o'erflowmg  plenty  is  up-piled 
In  those  rich-laden  coffers,^  which  below 
SowM  the  good  seed,  whose  harvest  now  they  keep. 
Here  are  the  treasures  tasted,  that  with  tears 
Were  in  the  Babylonian  exile*  won. 
When  gold  had  fail'd  them.     Here,  in  synod  high 
Of  ancient  council  with  the  new  convened, 
Under  the  Son  of  Meury  and  of  God, 
Victorious  he^  his  mighty  triumph  holds. 
To  whom  the  keys  of  glory  were  assign'd. 


CANTO    XXIV. 


ARGUMENT. 

Sahit  Peter  examines  Dante  touching  Faith,  and  is  contented 

with  his  answers. 

"  O  YE  I  in  chosen  fellowship  advanced 
To  the  great  supper  of  the  blessed  Lamb, 
Whereon  who  feeds  hath  every  wish  fulfilled ; 
If  to  this  man  through  God's  grace  be  vouchsafed 
Foretaste  of  that,  which  from  your  table  falls, 
Or  ever  death  his  fated  term  prescribe ; 
Be  ye  not  heedless  of  his  urgent  will : 
But  may  some  influence  of  your  sacred  dews 
Sprinkle  him.     Of  the  fount  ye  alway  drink, 
Whence  flows  what  most  he  craves."  Beatrice  spake ; 
And  the  rejoicing  spirits,  like  to  spheres 
On  firm-set  poles  revolving,  trail'd  a  blaze 
Of  comet  splendor :  and  as  wheels,  that  wind 
Their  circles  in  the  horologe,  so  work 
The  stated  rounds,  that  to  the  observant  eye 
The  first  seems  still,  and  as  it  flew,  the  last ; 
E'en  thus  their  carols^  weaving  variously, 

1  Regina  Os/t.]  "  The  beginning  of  an  anthem,  sung  by 
the  church  at  Easter,  in  honor  of  our  Lady."     Volpi. 

«  Tltoae  rich-laden  coffers.]  Those  spirits,  who,  having 
sown  the  seed  of  good  works  on  earth,  now  contain  the  fhiit 
of  their  pious  endeavors. 

>  In  the  Babylonian  exile.]  During  their  abode  in  this 
world. 

4  He.]  St.  Peter,  with  the  other  holy  men  of  the  Old  and 
New  Testament. 

<»  Their  carols.]  Carole.  The  annotatoi  on  the  Uoute  Qur 
aino  M8.  observes,   '^Carolee  dlcuntm  tx\pu(S^uni.  o^jOLOdidASBk 


534  "***■  viS'^'N-  i^w. 

They,  by  llio  ine«snre  paced,  or  swift,  or  alow, 
Made  me  to  rale  Iha  richee'  of  Iheir  joy. 

From  that,'  which  I  did  nolB  in  beauty  most 
Exc^lliDgi  saw  I  issue  forth  a  Same 
So  bright,  as  none  was  left  tnore  goodly  (here. 
Round  Beatrice  thrice  il  wheel'd  about, 
With  BO  divine  a  song.  Ihal  fancy's  ear 
Recordj)  it  not ;  and  Che  pea  passeth  an. 
And  loaves  a  blank  :  for  thai  our  mortal  apeech, 
Nor  e'en  tbo  inward  ahaping  of  the  brain. 
Hath  coloTB  fine  enough  to  tmce  auoh  folda.' 

"  O  saintly  BiBter  inme  1  Ihy  pmyor  deToot 
Is  with  BO  vehenioiit  affection  urged. 
Thou  dost  unbind  me  from  that  IJeanteoua  Bpherc." 

Such  wero  the  aoeeuta  towards  my  lady  breathed 

quod  Ht  BBlieodD,  Dt  NaiKillIanl  rai-lunl  et  dJcunt."  Tba 
wmil  bull  aUo  (bii  ilEolflcailDii,  which  ii  nnw  ihe  onlj  «• 
that  cainmiin  nm  alliwhe>  to  it.  "  Aa  Dan  Job  1!  •'a 
lanil,"  [Ihe  Uhk  or  (^rpiaa  coming  fioin  OntilerLiDry  lo  M- 

qn'il  vial  a  AJlmn ;  Da  (b  hA  H  tenqdti  et  naod  TdIhu  M 
Bolgiunn  uppareillAi  pour  ]o  recevo^r-    Ce  lut  nn  (UirHBCta 

Bejgaeur  ia  Coney  qal  ■'eflorull  4e  Uen  duwr  el  de  Hn 
thBDiBi  qnsnd  ua  Idar  vaaull,  tc."    JVjijMrl,  ml.  L  oip. 


Uiflnakudlon-unlBnltio: 

I 

A  ladle  karoted  hem,  thai  hight 

J 

■ 

Well  coBid  >ho  slug  »Dd  In^lely. 

m 

dancw,  Honairal  i/ 1*=  Rate,  I 

MLlfXa,IAm 

I  jiw  har  dauice  IS  aanmlT, 

^m 

DHuv.  TMi  DrsHu!^  BMki  of  a 

otciutn,mm. 

m,m,  "(lain  tklwiH,"  lailaad  of  -d,ll 

a  >lcol>eM,''*al 

ccoMIMMwU*' 

iDoorvolMliF^ 

^ 

1 

iSuchfulH.]    PiDilBr  hag  the  name  hold 

imago:           ■ 

CjiKJi.  wttx'h-    0. 1. 170 

1 

ihir.b  l»>lh  Ihe  SehoUast  nai  Heyae.  I 

hl>.k«K«<*4B 

Bi-atuTiS 

hat  poet  toUccleil  by  Mr.  St  Amana.  and 

•SATS 

odleiBn  Uhroiy,  Ns.  43.    "Noiandom 

Uubnam  IMW 

33-M,  PARADISE,  Canto  XXIV.  535 

To  whom  she  thus :  "  O  everlasting  light 
Of  him,  within  whoso  mighty  grasp  our  Lord 
Did  leave  th«  keys,  which  of  this  wondrous  bliss 

With  lighter  probe  or  deep,  touching  (he  foithj 

By  the  which  thou  didst  on  the  billows  walk. 

If  he  m  love,  in  hope,  and  in  belief, 

Be  steadfast,  is  not  bid  from  tbee :  tor  thou 

Hast  there  thy  kea,  whrie  all  tluugs  aie  b«held 

In  lirelieKl  poctraitore.     But  since  true  faith 

Has  peopled  thia  fair  realm  with  citizens ; 

Meet  is,  that  to  exalt  its  glory  more, 

Thou,  in  liis  audience,  sliouldst  tliereof  ilisconrse." 

Like  to  the  bachelor,  who  amis  himaelf, 
And  speaks  Dot,  till  the  niaater  have  proposed 
The  question,  to  approve,'  and  uot  to  ead  it ; 
So  I,  in  silence,  urm'd  me,  wliile  she  spake. 
Summoning  up  each  argument  to  aid  ; 
As  was  behooveful  for  aucb  questioner. 
And  anch  profession :  "  Aa  good  Christian  ought, 
Declare  thee,  What  is  faitlil"  Whereat  I  raisocJ 
My  forehead  to  the  light,  wbeoce  this  had  breathed  ; 
Then  tum'd  to  Beatrice ;  and  in  her  looks 
Approval  met,  that  from  Iheir  iumoBt  fount 
I  Bhonld  unlock  the  wnten.     "  May  tliB  grace. 
That  giveth  mo  the  captain  of  the  church 
For  confessor,"  said  I,  "  vouchsafs  to  me 
Apt  nttemnce  for  my  thoughts ;"  thcu  added :  "  Sice  I 
E'en  OS  set  down  by  the  unerring  style 
Of  thy  dear  brother,  who  with  thee  coOBpired 
To  bring  Rome  in  unto  the  way  of  life. 
Faith*  of  things  hoped  is  subetauce,  aud  the  proof 
Of  Ihin^  not  seeu ;  and  herein  dotb  consist 

•  TVnE.I    Tsnla.    The  word  "lenl."  Irs,  1b  aaei  bv  our 
oM  w-  ■      -   -     ■  -■  ■■ ■•- 


"  n  uplii  aw.)    "Petsppnibai 
f  XU  taeheks, «  djipaunl  In  the  icIiddI,  amis  or  ptepaiei 
UbhU  to  dlKBH  the  qnesllaa  nrnpassd  by  llie  niailer, 

iQlviVBUioa ;  ud  11  b&J  Itie  ntertl  of  lieliig,  at  leul,  mon 
iBMIDiaWe  Ihiui  IxiDbsrdi-i.  who,  wllhuul  nawn,  HFcqm 
Un  othei  eommenlalen.  cnept  VbdIuiI,  (wlune  eiplaoalioD 
hfl  iqjaels,)  oTpu^ng  over  the  dLdlcnIty' 


^r^* 


TiiE  vmoa. 


"  if  Ihou  well  dbcern,  wliy 
h  definod  il  BubBlancB,  and  then  proof 
"  Thfi   deep  things,"   I   replied,  "which  h( 

DiBtinotly,  arc  below  from  murlal  ejs 
"    ' " '  'en,  they  have  in  belief  alone 

;  on  whidli  EtedencB,  hope  subli 
d,  therefore  substance,  it  intends 
needs  infer 
uoh  belief  < 
To  otlier  view  eiclnded  ;  benee  of  proof 
Tlie  intention  in  derived."     Forthwith  I  heard 
"  If  thus,  whate'er  by  leaming 
Were  nudeistood  ;  the  Bophat  would  warn  kkuo 
To  cierciBD  Ids  wiL"     So  breathed  the  Bame 
or  love;  then  added:  "Current'  ia  the  coin 
Thon  utter'st,  Iwth  in  weight  and  in  alloy. 
But  toll  mo,  if  thou  hast  it  in  thy  purse." 

"  Even  so  glittering  and  bo  ronnd,"  nid  I, 
"  I  not  a  whit  misdoubt  of  its  asaay." 

Neit  isauod'  from  the  doep-imbowmi'd  aplenior: 
"  Say,  whence  the  CMtiy  jewel,  on  the  which 


Bighlly  host  thon  deemU" 
wdl  discern,  wliy  liM 
nee,  and  then  proof  || 

I   replied,  "which  heK^MH 

n  morlai  eye  ^^^| 

lelief  alone  ^^^| 

tcdeace,  hope  sublime  ^^^| 

ibstance.  it  intends  ^^^| 

st  needs  infer  ^^^| 

ioning,  all  respeal  ^^^| 

bence  of  proof  ^^H 

'     Forthwith  I  heard:  ^^^ 

iming  men  attain,  J 


■  Crnnt.]    "The  ■»>«-«  IJion  bill  Bi.ds. 

ilehl:  Hi 

"""JVoKiinwrf.]    "WeflDd  lliatlliBnKmnie 

dBoee  Iher  luva  tod  of  Ihe  tnuh  of  it,  anii  bee 

SFHWert- 

mmdiU) 

and  mtlonftlLF  pemraded  of  IL    To  snch  1  pni 
ionh  iwwecflil  evldHDceii  of  the  nutb  of  the  dodr 

HflfChAI 

Uy  Ilie  elftctnal  wotklnRa  of  Die  ipliil  at  Ond 

BDDlK,  Itast  Hll  otber  ■qnimenu,  u  u  Iheit  cnn 

n^Uhii. 

mayft]]  short  of  U««.    A.  Co  which.  tbo»  y: 

»«..CI1» 

nod  slifnlflcMl;  for  whea  he  had  Inltodnced 

vta 

c»rua°i«l 

Dslnrie  eilvil  si  Ince  pronuda 

au»  tlllc  BpleodGhal  pielioH  «m™. 

Uoii^^l 

»K  (0  diMovsr  that  divbe  I^th  to  the  world  « 

(With  doth  sand  m  on  lis  an™  roDBdniloii ;  bn 

Ai"«llo  iDos  on  to  Inqnlrs  how  tas  knew  Ihli  • 
fn,o,GoJ,hU«uwet.olhan,, 

iBjgapluvIa 

Spl^m<  auicU.  que  «il  difflisa 

Esl  Billoginmu.  Ille  qol  oom  mlhl  ueelMl 

80-105.  PARADISE,  Canto  XXIV.  527 

Is  founded  every  virtue,  came  to  thee." 

«  The  flood,"  I  answer'd,  "  from  the  Spirit  of  God 
Rain'd  down  upon  the  ancient  bond  and  new,* — 
Here  is  the  reasoning,  that  convinceth  me 
So  feelingly,  each  argument  beside 
Seems  blunt,  and  forceless,  in  comparison." 
Then  heard  I :  "  Wherefore  boldest  thou  that  each. 
The  elder  proposition  and  the  new. 
Which  so  persuade  thee,  are  the  voice  of  heaven  ?" 

"  The  works,  that  follow'd,  evidence  their  truth  ;" 
I  answer'd :  "  Nature  did  not  make  for  these 
The  iron  hot,  or  on  her  anvil  mould  them." 

"  Who  voucheth  to  thee  of  the  works  themselves," 
Was  the  reply,  "  that  they  in  very  deed 
Are  that  they  purport?  None  hath  sworn  so  to  thee." 

"  That  all  the  world,"''  said  I,  "  should  have  been 
To  Christian,  and  no  muracle  been  wrought,     [turn'd 


«'.  e.  That  the  Spirit  of  God  doth  so  fdlly  discover  itself  both 
in  the  Old  and  New  Testament,  that  all  other  arguments  are 
bat  dull  and  heavy  if  compared  with  this."  Siillingjleet,  Or. 
Sa.,  b.  ii.  chap.  ix.  sect.  xix.  $  4.  The  reader  will  perceive 
that  our  learned  divine  has  made  an  error  in  his  quotation 
of  this  passage. 

1  The  ancient  bond  and  new.]    The  Old  and  New  Testament. 

>  7%a£  aU  the  toorld.]  "We  cannot  conceive  how  the 
world  should  be  at  first  induced  to  believe  without  mani- 
fest and  uncontrolled  miracles.  For  as  Chrysostom  speaks, 
tl  irtJitd(ov  x^P^S  eireicraVf  iroAA^)  fiti^ov  rb  davfta  <paiviTai» 
It  was  the  greatest  miracle  of  all,  if  the  world  should  believe 
without  miracles.  Which  the  poet  Dantes  hath  well  ex- 
pressed in  the  twenty-fourth  canto  of  Paradise.  For  when 
the  Apostle  is  there  brought  in,  asking  the  Poet  upon  what 
account  he  took  the  Scriptures  of  the  Old  and  New  Testa- 
ment to  be  the  Word  of  God ;  his  answer  is, 

Probatio  qus  verum  hoc  mihi  recludit, 

Sunt  opera,  qus  secuta  sunt,  ad  quae  Natura 

Non  candefecit  ferrum  unquam  aut  percussit  incudem. 

i.  e.  The  evidence  of  that  is  the  Divine  Power  of  miracles 
which  was  in  those  who  deliver'd  those  things  to  the  world. 
And  when  the  Apostle  catechiseth  him  further,  how  he  knew 
those  miracles  were  such  as  they  pretended  to  be,  viz.  that 
they  were  true  and  divine ;  his  answer  is. 

Si  orbis  terne  sese  convertit  ad  Christianismum 

Inqniebam  ego,  sine  miraculis ;  hoc  unnm 

Est  tale,  ut  reliqua  non  sint  ejus  centesima  pars. 

t.  e.  If  the  world  should  be  converted  to  the  Christian  faith 
without  miracles,  this  would  be  so  great  a  miracle,  that  others 
were  not  to  be  compared  with  it.  I  conclude  this,  then,  with 
that  known  saying  of  St.  Austin,  Quisquis  adhuc  prodigia,  ut 
credat,  inquiret,  magnum  est  ipse  prodigium  qui  mundo 
credente  non  credit :  He  that  seeks  for  miracles  still  to  in- 
duce him  to  faith,  when  the  world  is  converted  to  the  Chris- 


599  THE  VISION.  108-13S. 

Would  in  ilseirte  such  s  miracle. 
The  rest  were  not  an  huadredlh  part  bo  great. 
E'eu  thou  vent'st  forth  in  poverty  and  buligcr 
To  set  the  gwdly  pluit,  thai,  from  the  vine 
It  oace  was,  now  is  grown  unsightiy  bramble." 

That  ended,  through  the  hiffh  celostiai  court 
Reeounded  nli  the  epherea,  "  Praise  ne  one  God !" 
In  Bons  of  most  unearthly  mplody. 
And  when  that  Worthy'  thus,  bom  branch  to  hrancb, 
EKaminlng,  had  led  me,  that  -wo  now 
Approached  the  topmost  bougb ;  he  straight  reaomad; 
"Thegracogthut  Iiolds  sweet  dalhiDce  with  tbyBODl, 
So  tar  diecroetly  bath  thy  lips  uneloeeil ; 
That  whatsoe'er  has  pateed  them,  I  conmieBd. 
Behoovee  thee  to  express,  what  thou  believeat. 
The  next ;  and,  nhereon,  thy  beUef  balb  givwn." 

"  O  saintly  nro  anil  spirit  1"  I  began, 
■'  Who  seest  that,  which  thou  didst  so  believe. 
As  to  aulsliip*  feet  younger  than  thine  own. 
Toward  the  sspalchre ;  thy  will  is  hero. 
That  I  the  tenor  of  my  creed  unfold  ; 
And  thou,  the  cause  of  it,  hast  likewise  utk'd. 
And  I  reply :  I  in  one  God  believe  ; 
Oqo  sola  Htpmal  Godhead,  of  whose  love 
All  lieaveu  is  moved,  hiniBelf  immoved  the  while. 
Nor  denioiiatration  physical  aloue, 
Or  more  inlelligential  and  Bbstraee, 
Feisuades  me  to  thia  faith:  but  from  that  truth 

Uan  fklEb,  be  needa  not  seek  Ibr  piotlifiea  Bbroad    ho  wnsH 
only  a  luoklog-Blii«  lo  dlseovBT  one.    For  Mho  goes  o  Cn£ 


1  so  sUnngeL;  Inrtsditilc  ai  IboH  wan  vt  h 
lia  ApoBlles  preicli'd  1"    ScaliKgJtitt.  Or  l> 

nne,  in  hJa  SenBona,  (vol.  II.  p.  SIS,  fill  ed  t,  iji 
arfHSiage  Eniin  AngiuLEne»aiia  applln  b>  the  d 
itiTules,  niade  by  Konian  CatttoLtoi  on  Prot»liui> 
■»tt(»'orlAr.)  QuelBiron.  la theaeitCanlo  *= 
....._  ..    ,    .    „  ■o,G.vi   N   10  » 


134-151.  PARADISE,  Canto  XXV.  629 

It  Cometh  to  me  rather,  which  is  shed 

Through  Moses ;  the  rapt  Prophets ;  and  the  Psalms ; 

The  Gospel ;  and  what  ye  yourselves  did  write, 

When  ye  were  gifted  of  the  Holy  Ghost 

In  three  eternal  Persons  I  believe  ; 

lissence  threefold  and  one ;  mysterious  league 

Of  union  absolute,  which,  many  a  time, 

The  word  of  gospel  lore  upon  my  mind 

Imprints :  and  firam  this  germ,  this  firstling  spark 

The  lively  flame  dilates  ;  and,  like  heaven's  star, 

Doth  ghtter  in  me."     As  the  master  hears, 

Well  pleased,  and  then  enfoldeth  in  his  arms 

The  servant,  who  hath  joyful  tidings  brought, 

And  having  told  the  errand  keeps  his  peace  ; 

Thus  benediction  uttering  with  song. 

Soon  as  my  peace  I  held,  compass'd  me  thrice 

The  apostolic  radiance,  whose  behest 

Had  oped  my  lips :  so  well  their  answer  pleased. 

CANTO   XXV. 

ARGUMENT. 

Saint  James  questions  our  Poet  concerning  Hope.  Next 
Saint  John  appears ;  and,  on  perceiving  that  I^nte  looks 
intently  on  him,  informs  him  that  he,  Saint  John,  had  left 
his  lx>dy  resolved  into  earth,  npon  the  earth ;  and  that 
Clulst  and  the  Virgin  alone  had  come  with  their  bodies 
into  heaven. 

If  e'er  the  sacred  poem,  that  hath  made 
Both  heaven  and  earth  copartners  in  its  toil. 
And  with  lean  abstinence,  through  many  a  year. 
Faded  my  brow,  be  destined  to  prevail 
Over  the  cruelty,  which  bars  me  forth 
Of  the  fair  sheepfold,*  where,  a  sleeping  lamb. 
The  wolves  set  on  and  fain  had  worried  me  ; 
With  other  voice,  and  fleece  of  other  grain, 
I  shall  forthwith  return ;  and,  standing  up 
At  my  baptismal  font,  shall  claim  the  wreath 
Due  to  the  poet's  temples :  for  I  there 
First  enter*!!  on  the  faith,  which  maketh  souls 
Acceptable  to  God  :  and,  for  its  sake,' 
Peter  had  then  circled  my  forehead  thus. 

Next  from  the  squadron,  whence  had  issued  forth 
The  first  fruit  of  Christ's  vicars  on  the  earth, 

1  7%«  fair  she^fold.]  Florence,  whence  he  was  banished. 
^Fbrits  sake.]    Fox  the  sake  of  that  faith. 

34 


530  THE  VISION.  n-3l 

Toward  us  mored  a.  liglit,  at  view  wlieteof 
My  Lady,  full  of  gladnem,  apake  to  me ; 
'■  Lo  :  [a',  bebotd  the  peer  ra  mickle  migbt. 
That  makes  Qalicia  throng'd  with  vtsitant^'" 
At  when  Che  riiif -dure  by  hia  mate  ahgbtH ; 
la  circtee,  ench  about  the  othei  wheels, 
And,  murmaring,  coos  his  rondne»;  thiusawl 
One,  of  the  other"  great  and  glorious  prince, 
Willi  kindly  ffreeting,  haii'd ;  eiloUing,  bolh. 
Their  heavenly  banqueting :  but  when  an  end 

Before  me  sst  (hey  down,  so  bnming  bright, 
I  could  not  look  upon  them.     SmiUngthen, 
Bentrice  spake  :  "  O  life  in  giory  shriaod  '. 
Who'  didst  the  largess'  of  our  kingly  court 

'  Qalicinaraiir'dieiat^ititmia.i    See  Uarisna.  Bln_  Ut 
Hpulchn  arote  spuule  St.  Jmies  wbi  dlKovemd.  tfae  dam 


dlflSrnLty  of  lie  tonroey.  by 
Iho»  pua,  DPd  Dy  the  lurur 


Uu  ronghiMuaad 


jf  Ibe  pLIgrturt.— The  CBaou  oTSL 


Eloy,  nnetwHrdi,  (       .  ... 

■Ire  of  Hioedylae  Dune  evtli,  built,  La  muiy  pUic«.  alou  Ois 
wtiole  iDad.  wUch  rBBched  u  ^  a>  Id  Fruica,  hupiU*  Bw 
tbe  rsoepuon  of  tbe  pOgfiaa."  In  the  Convlto,  p.  T4.  we 
find  "  i&  gBloseis,"  Ax.,  "  the  gala^,  that  U,  (be  nfaite  dttite 
which  the  coiuDioa  peo|^  u.11  the  way  uT  8abi(  Jwoes  ;'^  va 


* 


in  a  ibn  by  i^ht  to  pUgriiui,  who 
of  OsUela  1  asil  Ehli  Hrh>p>  uhb 


milky  way 
llhan  WallyninSt 


Jmnffimi, 


>  Wlui,]  The  Eidille  of  81,  Jemu  in  he: 
the  elder  apoiile  of  ihni  name,  whtKO  shrin 
p«lellB,  bi  QBllela.  Which  of  Iho  Iwpwm  i 
b  yet  dDUblful.  The  leaTneJ  snil  ceodld  Ml(_ 
very  forcibly  for  (Is  bavbii  beea  wriLUa  by  Joi 
Lardner reject!  Ibalnplnlonualniuil^  while. 
agalbJl  11.  lint  Ik  well  angwend  by  Mlcbaelii, ' 


3^5^.  PARAblsfe,  Canto  XXV.  531 

Set  down  with  faithful  peii ;  let  now  thy  voice, 
Of  hope  the  praises,  in  this  height  resound. 
For  well  thou  kndw'st,  who  figurest  it  as  oft,* 
As  Jesus,  to  ye  three,  more  bnghtly  shone." 

"  Lift  up  thy  head  ;  and  be  thou  strong  in  trust : 
For  that,  which  hither  from  the  mortal/v^orid 
Arriveth,  must  be  ripen'd  iii  our  beam." 

Such  cheering  accents  from  the  seconil  flame^ 
Assured  me  ;  and  mine  eyes  I  lifted  up^ 
Unto  the  mountains,  that  had  bow'd  them  late 
With  over-heavy  burden.     "  Sith  our  Liege 
Wills  of  his  grace,  that  thou,  or  e*er  thy  death, 
In  the  most  secret  council  with  his  lords 
Shouldst  be  confronted,  so  that  having  view'd 
The  glories  of  our  court,  thou  mayst  therewith 
Thyself,  and  all  who  hear.  Invigorate 
With  hope,  that  leads  to  blissful  end ;  declare, 
What  is  that  hope  ?  how  it  doth  flourish  in  thee  ? 
And  whence  thou  hadst  it  ?"    Thus,  proceeding  still, 
The  second  light :  and  she,  whose  gentle  love 
My  soaring  pennons  in  that  lofty  flight 
Escorted,  thus  preventing  me,  rejoin'd : 

Agrippa,  A.  D.  44,  (Acts  xii.,)  it  is  evident  that  he  was  not 
Hm  author  of  the  epistie  which  bears  the  name  of  James,  be- 
cause it  contains  passages  which  refer  to  a  later  period,  viz. 
V.  1-8,  which  intimates  the  then  immediately  approaching 
destruction  of  Jerusalem,  and  the  subversion  of  the  Jewish 
polity."  Introduction  to  the  Critical  Study  and  Knowledge  of 
the  Holy  Scriptures,  Ed.  1818,  vol.  ii.  p.  600. 

*  Largess.]  He  appears  to  allude  to  the  Epistle  of  James, 
chap.  i.  V.  5.  "  If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of 
God,  that  giveth  to  all  men  liberally,  and  upbraideth  not ;  and 
it  shall  be  given  him."  Or,  to  v.  17 :  "  Every  good  gift  and 
every  perfect  gift  is  from  above,  and  cometh  down  from  the 
Father  of  lights."  Some  editions,  however,  read  "  Tallegrez- 
za,"  "joy,"  instead  of  "la  larghezza." 

*  jJa  oft.]  Landino  and  Venturi,  who  read  "  Q,uanto,"  ex- 
plain this,  that  the  frequency  with  which  James  had  com- 
mended the  virtue  of  hope,  was  in  proportion  to  the  bright- 
ness in  which  Jesus  had  appeared  at  his  transfiguration. 
Velluteilo,  who  reads  "  Quante,"  supposes  that  James  three 
times  recommends  patient  hope  in  the  last  chapter  of  his 
Epistle ;  and  that  Jesus,  as  many  times,  showed  his  bright- 
ness  to  the  three  disciples ;  once  when  he  cleansed  the  lepers, 
(Luke,  V. ;)  again  when  he  raised  the  daughter  of  Ja'irus, 
(Mark,  v. ;)  and  a  third  time  when  he  was  transfigured.  As 
to  Lombard!,  who  also  reads  "  duante,"  his  construction  of 
the  passage  seems  to  me  scarcely  intelligible. 

3  7%e  second  flame.]    St.  James. 

«  /  lifted  up.]  "  I  looked  up  to  the  Apostles."  "  I  will  lift 
up  mine  eyes  unto  the  hills,  from  whence  cometh  my  help." 
Psalm  cxd.  1. 


&33 


THE  VKUON. 


"  Among  her  sodb,  not  one  more  full  of  hope, 
Hatli  the  church  milituil:  wi  't»  of  him 
Recorded  In  Ihe  Bnn,  whose  liberal  orb 
Eulightenelh  all  our  tribe ;  and  ere  his  lenn 
Of  warfare,  hence  peonitted  be  is  come, 
From  Egypt  to  Jerusalem,'  Co  see. 
The  utbec  points,  both  whicli'  thou  hast  inqiured, 
Not  for  more  knowledge,  but  that  be  nrn^  tell 
How  dear  Ibou  bold'et  the  virtue  ;  theae  to  hiin 
Iieave  I ;  for  he  ntay  answer  tbee  with  ease. 
And  withont  boaating,  bo  God  give  him  grace." 

Like  to  the  ecbolar,  proctiBed  in  his  task, 
Who,  willing  to  give  proof  of  diligence. 
Seconds  his  teacher  glodly ;  "  Hope,'"  said  I, 
"  Ib  of  the  joy  lo  come  a  sure  expectance, 
The  effect  of  grace  divine  and  merit  precedmg. 
This  light  from  many  a  star,  visits  my  heart ; 
But  flow'd  to  me,  the  first,  from  him  who  sang 
The  BongB  of  the  Supremo  ;  himself  supremo 
Among  his  luiiefu!  brethren.     '  Let  all  hope 
In  theo,'  so  spoke  his  antbcm,' '  who  have  luiowa 
Tby  name;'  and,  with  my  faith,  who  know  not  lliatl 
From  thee,  the  neil,  distilling  from  his  spring, 
In  thins  ejKstla,  fell  on  me  the  drops 
So  plenleoualy,  that  I  on  otherB  showor 
The  influence  of  tbeudcw."     WbUoas  I  spake, 
A  iani]Hng,  as  of  quick  and  volley'd  lightning. 
Within  the  bosom  of  that  mighty  Bbcen" 
Play'dlremulaus;  Chenforih  these  accents bruathed: 
"  Love  for  the  virtQe,  which  attended  me 
E'en  lo  Ibe  palm,  and  iaauing  &om  the  field, 
Glows  vigorous  yet  within  me  ;  and  inspires 


^  .tVffBl  Ejevpt   to   JtrKtt 


n.]    From 


•ffuaiH*™.]    "  They  Ihil  know  Ihint 
'  Tksz  nigklf  ibvn,]    The  iplill  of  Baini 


fl^ll2.  PARADISE,  Canto  XXV.  533 

To  ask  of  thee,  whom  also  it  delights. 

What  promise  thou  from  hope,  in  chief,  dost  win." 

"  Both  scriptures,  new  and  ancient,"  I  replied, 
"  Propose  the  mark  (which  even  now  I  view) 
For  souls  beloved  of  God.     Isaias'  saith, 
'  That,  in  their  own  land,  each  one  must  be  clad 
In  twofold  vesture  ;'  and  their  proper  land  ^ 

Is  this  delicious  life.     In  terms  more  full. 
And  clearer  far,  thy  brother^  hath  set  forth 
This  revelation  to  us,  where  he  tells 
Of  the  white  raiment  destined  to  the  saints." 
And,  as  the  words  were  ending,  from  above, 
"  They  hope  in  thee !"  first  heard  we  cried :  whereto 
Answer'd  the  carols  all.     Amidst  them  next, 
A  light  of  so  clear  amplitude  emerged. 

That  winter's  month*  were  but  a  single  day,  j 

Were  such  a  crystal  in  the  Cancer's  sign. 

Like  as  a  virgin^  riseth  up,  and  goes. 
And  enters  on  the  mazes  of  the  dance  ; 
Though  gay,  yet  innocent  of  worse  intent. 
Than  to  do  fitting  honor  to  the  bride : 
So  I  beheld  the  new  effulgence  come 
Unto  the  other  two,  who  in  a  ring 
Wheel'd,  as  became  their  rapture.     In  the  dance. 
And  in  the  song,  it  mingled.     And  the  dame 
Held  on  them  nx'd  her  looks ;  e'en  as  the  spouse, 
Silent,  and  moveless.     "  This^  is  he,  who  lay 

1  Isaias.]  "  He  hath  clothed  me  with  the  garments  of 
salvation,  he  hath  covered  me  with  the  robe  of  righteoos- 
ness.**    Chap.  Ixi.  10. 

«  7^y  Ifrother.]    St.  John  in  the  Revelation,  vii.  9. 

*  Winter*8  numth.]  *'  If  a  luminary,  like  that  which  now  i 
appeared,  were  to  shine  throughout  the  month  following  the  I 
winter  solstice,  during  which  the  constellation  Cancer  ap-  I 
pean  in  the  east  at  the  setting  of  the  sun,  there  would  be 
no  interruption  to  the  light,  but  the  whole  month  would  be 
as  a  single  day.*' 

*  Like  a$  a  virgin.]  There  is  a  pretty  counterpart  to  this 
simile  in  the  Q,uadriregio  of  Frezzi : 

Pol  come  donna,  che  fa  reverenza 
Lassando  11  ballo,  tal'  atto  fh  ella. 

Lib.  iv.  cap  v. 

Then  as  a  lady,  when  she  leaves  the  dance, 
Maketh  obeisance,  even  so  did  she. 

The  same  writer  has  another  more  like  that  In  the  text 

Come  donzella,  c'ha  a  guidar  la  danza, 

Che  a  chi  Tinvita  reverenzia  face, 

£  po'  incomlncia  vergognosa  e  manza. 
Cosi  colei,  &x.  Lib.  iv.  cap.  ii. 

B  Thi».\  St.  John,  who  reclined  on  the  bosom  of  our  Sa- 
viour, and  to  whose  charge  Jesus  recommended  hla  mothfit. 


534 

THE  VISION. 

Upontheboaomofaui 
This  he,  iulD  whom  kt 

lepng,  fron 

The  mighly  charge  was  givon."     Thus  ahe  Bpakt; 

Yel  tberafore  Danght  the  mors  ronioved  her  aighl 

From  marking  them :  or  o'sr  her  words  beeon, 

Or  when  Lhey  closed.    Aa  hv,  who  lookfl  iutent, 

And  atrivBB  with  Bearchiug  ken,  how  he  may  tee 

The  sun  in  his  ecUpse,  and,  through  desire 

Of  seeing,  lowth  power  of  sight ;  so  V 

Feefd  on  that  last  rcBplendeoce,  while  I  heonl;      ' 

"  Why  doizlest  Ihoa  Ihine  eyes  in  seeking  Ibol, 

Which  here  ahides  not  1     Garth  my  body  i>. 

In  oarth ;  and  Gball  be,  with  the  rest,  «t  long. 

Ab  till  our  number  equal  (he  decree 

Of  the  Most  High.     The  two'  that  have  asd 

In  this  oar  blessed  cloiater,  shine  alone 

With  (he  two  garments.     So  report  below." 


1,  for  ei 

Suspected  peril,  at 


9  of  labor,  oi 

1  whistle's  brentlt. 


The  oBi«,  erewhilo  < 

All  rest :  the  flamy  circle  at  that  voice 

So  rested  ;  and  the  mingling  sound  was  aim, 

Which  from  the  trinal  hand,  soft-breathing,  nM&. 

I  tum'd,  but  ah  1  how  trembled  in  my  thoag^l. 

When,  looking  at  my  side  again  to  see 

Beatrice,  I  descried  her  not ;  although. 

Not  distant,  on  the  happy  coast  she  stood. 


CANTO    XXVI. 


(^Uanlied 


nisM.)    ClirlMet 


•  nisM.) 
OmISiMChIo 


3-«. 


PARADISE,  Canto  XXVI. 


535 


Issued  a  breath,  that  in  attention  mute  [well, 

Detained  me ;  and  these  words  it  spake :  "  'Twere 

That,  long  as  till  thy  vision,  on  my  form 

O'enpent,  regain  its  virtne,  with  discourse 

Thou  compensate  the  brief  delay.     Say  then. 

Beginning,  to  what  point  thy  soul  aspires : 

And  meanwhile  rest  assured,  that  sight  m  thee 

Is  but  o'erpower'd  a  space,  not  wholly  quench'd ; 

Since  thy  fair  guide  and  lovely,  in  her  look 

Hath  potency,  the  like  to  that  which  dwelt 

In  Ananias'  hand."^     I  answering  thus : 

"  Be  to  mine  eyes  the  remedy,  or  late 

Or  early,  at  her  pleasure ;  for  they  were 

The  gates,  at  wluch  she  enter'd,  and  did  light 

Her  never-dying  fire.     My  wishes  here 

Are  centred :  in  this  palace  is  the  weal. 

That  Alpha  and  Omega  is,  to  all 

The  lessons  love  can  read  me."     Yet  agaui 

The  voice,  which  had  dispersed  my  fear  when  dazed 

With  that  excess,  to  converse  urged,  and  spsike : 

"  Behooves  thee  sift  more  narrowly  thy  terms ; 

And  say,  who  levell'd  at  this  scope  thy  bow." 

"  Philosophy,"  said  I,  "  hath  arguments. 
And  this  place  hath  authority  enough. 
To  imprint  in  me  such  love :  for,  of  constramt. 
Good,  masmuch  as  we  perceive  the  good. 
Kindles  our  love ;  and  in  degree  the  more, 
As  it  comprises  more  of  goodness  in  H. 
The  essence  then,  where  such  advantage  is. 
That  each  good,  found  without  it,  is  naught  else 
But  of  his  light  the  beam,  must  needs  attract 
The  soul  of  each  one,  loving,  who  the  truth 
Discerns,  on  which  this  proof  is  built.     Such  truth 
Learn  I  from  him,^  who  shows  me  the  first  love 
Of  all  intelligential  substances 
Eternal :  from  his  voice  I  learn,  whose  word 


1  Jinanias*  hand.]  Who,  by  pntting  his  hand  on  St.  Paal, 
restored  his  sight.  Jiets,  Ix.  17. 

s  fV-om  him.]  Some  suppose  that  Plato  is  here  meant, 
who,  in  his  Banquet,  malces  Phedras  say:  biio^oyeiTai 
h  "Eptas  h  Toii  irpta^vrdrots  elvaif  irp£ir(3vTdros  6i  Av, 
yLtytcmav  iyaOiav  fiuiv  aXridi  icrriv.  "  Love  is  confessedly 
among  the  eldest  of  beings ;  and  being  the  eldest,  is  the  cause 
to  us  of  the  greatest  goods."  Plat.,  Op.,  torn.  x.  p.  177,  Bip. 
ed.  Others  have  understood  it  of  Aristotle ;  and  others,  of 
the  writer  who  goes  by  the  name  of  Dionysius  the  Areopa- 
gite,  referred  to  in  the  twenty-eighth  canto. 


536  THE  VISION-  W-M 

Ii  truth  -,  that  of  himjiGU  to  Mosen  eajth, 
'  I  will  make'  all  my  good  before  thee  pam :' 
Liutly,  from  thee  I  lettm,  who  chief  pra«lauu'»t, 
E'eo  at  the  outset'  of  Uiy  heratding, 
In  mortal  eais  the  layelery  of  heaien." 

"  Through  human  wisdom,  and  tlie  authorily 
Therenilb  agreeing,"  heard  I  answer'd,  "  Iteep 
The  choicest  of  thy  love  for  God.     But  eay. 
If  thou  yet  other  oords  withiu  thee  feel'st, 
That  dniw  thee  towards  him  ;  so  that  thou  report 
How  many  are  the  fangs,  with  which  this  love 
Is  grappled  to  thy  soul.       I  did  not  mi», 
To  what  intent  the  eagle  of  our  Lord' 
Had  pointed  his  demand ;  yea,  Doted  well 
The  uvowul  whieh  ho  led  to  ;  and  resumed ', 
"  All  grappling  bonds,  that  knit  the  heart  to  God, 
Coni^derate  to  make  fast  our  charity. 
The  being  of  the  world ;  and  mino  own  being ; 
The  death  which  Ho  endured,  that  I  should  lire ; 
And  that,  which  ull  the  failhfiil  hope,  as  I  do  1 
To  the  foremention'd  lively  knowledge  join'd ; 
Have  from  the  sea  of  ill  love  saved  my  boil:. 
And  on  the  coast  secured  it  of  the  right. 
As  for  the  leaves,*  that  in  the  garden  bloom, 
My  love  for  them  is  great,  as  is  the  good 
Dealt  by  the  eternal  hand,  (hat  tends  them  ull." 

I  ended  ;  and  tberewilh  a  song  most  sweet 
Rang  through  the  spheres ;  and  "  Holy,  holy,  hoiyi" 
Accordant  with  the  rest,  my  lady  sang. 
And  as  a  sleep  is  broken  and  dispersed 
Through  sharp  encounter  of  (be  nimble  light. 
With  the  eye's  spirit  ruiming  forth  to  meet 
The  ray,  from  membrane  on  to  membrane  nrged ; 
And  the  upstarlled  wi^t  loathes  that  he  sees ; 
So,  at  his  sudden  waking,  he  misdeema 
Of  alt  around  him,  till  assurance  wails 


I 


OnhetterjudgmeDt:  thus  the  sa 

ntly  dame 

Irom  before  mine  eyes  thi 

Wilh  the  resplendeaee  of  )ier  own,  that  cast 

Thei 

snnd  miles  bsl<nv. 

Whence  1  my  vision,  clearer  than  beforB, 

er'd  ;  and  well-nigh  astonn 

ded,  Bsk'd 

^r  Kill  msie,]    Eiiidns,  I 

nlil.  IB. 

i.SMA.™(«l.]    JohD,l. 

•T*t««(.VMr£«nl.) 

St.  Joba 

"  7»B  Imort.]    Created  be 

OBS. 

81-113.  PARADISE,  Canto  XXVI.  537 

Of  a  fourth  light,  that  now  with  us  I  saw. 

And  Beatrice :  "  The  first  living  soul,^ 
That  ever  the  first  virtue  fi-amed,  admires 
Within  these  rays  his  Maker."     Like  the  leaf, 
That  bows  its  lithe  top  till  the  blast  is  blown ; 
By  its  own  virtue  reaPd,  then  stands  aloof: 
So  I,  the  while  she  said,  awe-stricken  bow'd. 
Then  eagerness  to  speak  embolden'd  me  ; 
And  I  began :  "  O  ft'uit !  that  wast  alone 
Mature,  when  first  engender'd ;  ancient  father ! 
That  doubly  seest  in  every  wedded  bride 
Thy  daughter,  by  affinity  and  blood ; 
Devoutly  as  I  may,  I  pray  thee  hold 
Converse  with  me :  my  will  thou  seest :  and  I, 
More  speedily  to  hear  thee,  tell  it  not.*' 

It  chanceth  oft  some  animal  bewrays, 
Through  the  sleek  covering*  of  his  furry  coat, 
The  fondness,  that  stirs  in  him,  and  conforms 
His  outside  seeming  to  the  cheer  within : 
And  in  like  guise  was  Adam's  spirit  moved 
To  joyous  mood,  that  through  the  covering  shone, 
Transparent,  when  to  pleasure  me  it  spake : 
"  No  need  thy  will  be  told,  which  I  untold 
Better  discern,  than  thou  whatever  thing 
Thou  hold'st  most  certain :  for  that  will  I  see 
In  Him,  who  is  truth's  mirror ;  and  Himself, 
Parhelion*  unto  all  things,  and  naught  else,        [God 
To  Him.    This  wouldst  thou  hear :   how  long  since 
Placed  me  in  that  high  garden,  from  whose  bounds 
She  led  me  up  this  ladder,  steep  and  long ; 
What  space  endured  my  season  of  delight ; 
Whence  truly  sprang  the  wrath  that  banish'd  me  ; 
And  what  the  language,  which  I  spake  and  framed. 

^  Tke  first  living  soul.]    Adam. 

s  Qnieriw.]  Lombardl*s  explanation  of  this  passage  is 
somewhat  mdicrous.  By  "un  animal  coverto,"  he  under- 
stands, not  an  animal  in  its  natural  covering  of  fur  or  hair, 
bat  one  dressed  up  with  clothes,  as  a  dog,  for  instance,  "  so 
clad  f<Mr  sport  ;*'  "  on  cane  per  trasttillo  coperto." 

Chancer  describes,  as  one  of  the  tokens  of  pleasure  in  a 
dof ,  "  the  smoothing  down  of  his  hairs." 

It  came  and  crept  to  me  as  low, 
Right  as  it  had  me  yknow. 
Held  down  his  head,  and  joyned  his  eares 
And  laid  all  smooth  downe  his  heares. 

T/ie  Dreame  of  Chaucer,  or  Booke  of  the  Duehesset 

Ed.  1602,  fol.  229. 

I  Parhelion.]  Who  enlightens  and  comprehends  all  things ; 
but  is  hLmselrenlightened  and  comprehended  by  none. 


636  THE  VISION  llHW. 

Not  thai  I  tasted'  of  the  iiee,  my  son, 

Was  in  ilnolf  thR  caase  of  that  exile, 

But  only  my  iranigrsBsing  of  the  mark 

AflBign'd  me.     Thore,  whence'  at  thy  lady"!  h«t 

The  Mantusn  moved  liun,  still  waa  I  dcban'd 

This  council,  tdl  the  mm  had  made  complete, 

Four  ihouimnd  and  three  hundred  roandi  and  twice, 

His  annual  jouniey  ;  and,  tliroug^i  every  Ught 

In  Ilia  bioad  pulhway,  etuw  1  him  return, 

Thouaand  save  seventy  times,  the  while  1  dwell 

Upon  the  earth.     The  language'  1  did  use 

Was  worn  away,  or  ever  Nimrod'a  race 

Their  unaccompliahoble  work  began. 

For  naught,'  that  man  iDcUnea  to,  e'er  vas  lasting ; 

Left  by  hie  reason  free,  and  varia.blB 

As  »  the  Bky  that  sways  him.    'That  he  speaks, 

l»  nature's  prompting :  whether  thos,  or  thos, 

She  leaves  to  you,  as  ye  do  moat  afiect  it. 

Ere  I  degceuded  into  hell's  abyss, 

El°  wae  tiie  name  on  earlli  of  the  Chief  Good. 

Wiiose  joy  eufolds  uiu :  Eli  then  'Iwas  mll'd. 

Nnn  noliiiiionle  per  eUBlM  dol  pomo; 
Ma  perch'  e'  IrapuM  dlUo  11  somuida. 

3  Htnuf.}    That  19.  fium  Umbo.    See  Bell,  CtDlo  U.  a 
lime  Df  bl>  dallvemnca,  which  Iblkrwed  Ibn  duUi  nrChiM. 

Uonem  Inrrls  Babel.    Ds  Vnlg.  Elon,.  lib.  I.  CKp.  vl,    -TUi 
bullillBg  of  (be  lower  of  Babel."  ' 
>  J^  tiavthti    There  li  a  almllar  pamce  In  Ibe  De  Valj , 


135-141.        PARADISE,  Canto  XXVH.  530 

And  80  beseemeth :  for,  in  mortals,  use' 
Is  as  the  leaf  upon  the  bough :  that  goes, 
And  other  comes  mstead.    Upon  the  mount 
Most  high  above  the  waters,  all  my  life,' 
Both  innocent  and  guilty,  did  but  reach 
From  the  first  hour,  to  that  which  cometh  next 
(As  the  sun  changes  quarter)  to  the  sixth.* 


CANTO    XXVII. 


** 


ARGUMENT. 

Sahit  Peter  bitterly  rebukes  the  covetousness  of  his  sacces- 
SOTS  in  the  apostolic  see,  while  all  the  heavenly  host  sym- 
pathize in  his  indignation:  they  then  vanish  upwards. 
Beatrice  bids  Dante  again  cast  his  view  below.  After- 
wards they  are  borne  into  the  ninth  heaven,  of  which  she 
shows  him  the  nature  and  properties;  blaming  the  per- 
verseness  of  man,  who  places  his  will  on  low  and  perish- 
able things. 

Then  "  Glory  to  the  Father,  to  the  Son, 
And  to  the  Holy  Spirit,"  rang  aloud 
Throughout  all  Paradise ;  that  with  the  song 
My  spirit  reel'd,  so  passing  sweet  the  stredn. 
And  what  I  saw  was  equal  ecstasy : 
One  universal  smile'  it  seem'd  of  all  things ; 
Joy  past  compare ;  gladness  unutterable  ; 
Imperishable  life  of  peace  and  love ; 
Exhaustless  riches,  and  unmeasured  bliss. 

Before  mine  eyes  stood  the  four  torches^  lit : 
And  that,"  which  first  had  come,  began  to  wax 
In  brightness ;  and,  in  semblance,  such  became, 
A4  Jove  might  be,  if  he  and  Mars  were  birds. 
And  interchanged  their  plumes.  '  Silence  ensued, 

\  Um,]    From  Horace,  Ars  Poet.  63. 

s  Ml  my  life.]  "  I  remained  in  the  terrestrial  Paradise 
only  to  the  seventh  hour."  In  the  Hlstoria  Scolastica  of 
Petms  Comestor,  it  is  said  of  our  first  parents :  "  anidam 
tradunt  eos  iiiisse  in  Paradise  septem  horas."  f.  9.  ed.  Par. 
1513»4to. 

>  One  unioersiU  smile.] 

Ivi  ogai  cosa  intomo  m*assembrava 
Un*  allegrezza  di  giocondo  riso. 

Frezzt,  R  <^widrir.,  lib.  iv.  cap.  ii. 

all  things  smiled. 

MilUm,  P.  X,.,  b.  viii.  365. 

*  Fmr  tprehea.]    St.  Peter,  St.  James,  St.  John,  and  Adam. 

*  ThfA.]  St  Peter,  who  looked  as  the  planet  Jupiter  wou^ 
if  it  awnuned  the  sanguine  appearance  of  Man. 


5tO 


THE  Vision. 


Through  Ihe  bleet  quire  ;  by  Him,  who  here  appnnti 

ViciBBitude  of  iDinlaUy,  enjoin'd  ; 

When  thus  I  hoard;  "  Wonder  nol,  If  my  lino 

Be  cbaoged  ;  (ac,  while  I  epeak,  these  sbali  thi 

All  m  like  manner  thmigo  with  me.     My  plac 

Ho'  who  BBUITJi  on  earlh,  (my  place,  ay,  loinB, 

Which  in  the  presence  of  the  son  of  God 

Is  void,)  the  suae  hath  made  my  cemetery 

A  CDitiTXion  sewor  of  pnddle  and  of  blood : 

The  more  helow  his  triumph,  who  from  hencK 

Malignant  fell."     Such  color,'  as  the  eaa. 

At  eve  or  momine,  jtainU  an  sdveme  cloud, 

Then  »aw  1  Bpiiukled  over  all  the  sky. 

And  as  the  unbleniislL'd  duma,  who,  inheiself 

Secure  of  censure,  yet  at  bare  report 

Of  other's  foiling,  Bhriuks  with  raaidcn  fear ; 

So  Beatrice,  in  her  semblance,  chaDgcd: 

And  auoh  eolipse  in  keaYeii,  melhinkfli  was  sern, 

When  the  Most  Holy  suffcr'd.     Then  the  worda 

Proceeded,  with  voice,  alter'd  from  itself 

So  clean,  the  BCmhlaQco  did  not  alter  more. 

"  Not  to  this  end  was  Christ's  spouse  with  my  blond. 

With  that  of  IduUB,  a.nd  of  Cletus,'  fed  ; 

That  she  might  serve  for  purchase  of  base  gold : 

But  for  the  puiahase  of  this  happy  life. 

Did  Keilns,  Pius,  and  Callixtus  bleed. 

And  DrbaQ  -,'  they,  whose  doom  wbb  not  witlioul 

Much  weeping  scal'd.     No  purpose  wna  of  ouis,' 


That 


right  h 


Fart  of  the  Christian  people  should  be  set. 
And  part  upon  their  left ;  nor  that  the  keys, 
Which  were  vouchsafed  me,  should  for  enrign  i 
Unto  the  bumeis,  that  do  levy  war 
On  the  bapUzed ;  nor  t,  for  sigil-maik, 


i 


PARADISE,  Can 


In  ih^plierd'a  clDlhlng,  greedy  wolves'  below 

Range  wide  o'er  all  Ihe  poalurce.     Aim  of  God  1 

Why  longer  ale?  p'nt  thou  ?     CahorsineB  and  Gbbcod^ 

Prepare  to  qualT  our  blood.     O  good  begiaaiag  1 

To  whet  a  vi!e  concluaion  must  thou  stoop. 

Bui  tbe  high  providenoo,  which  did  defend, 

Through  Scipio,  the  world's  empery  for  Rome, 

Will  not  delay  ila  succor:  and  thou,  son," 

Who  througli  Ihy  mortal  weight  shall  yet  again 

Return  below,  open  thy  lips,  nor  hide 

What  is  by  me  not  hidden."     Aa  a  flood 

Of  froion  vapoiB  Elreams  adowo  the  air. 

What  time  the  she-goat*  with  her  skiey  horn 

Touches  tho  sun  ;  so  saw  I  there  atreani  wide 

Ths  vapors,  who  with  us  had  linger'd  late, 

And  with  glad  triumph  deck  the  ethereal  cops. 

Onward  my  sight  Iheir  aemblauceo  pursued  ; 

So  far  pursued,  aa  till  the  apace  between 

From  its  reach  aevet'd  them ;  whereat  tbe  guide 

Celestial,  tnarkiug  nie  no  more  intent 

On  upward  gaiing,  said,  "  Jjook  down,  and  see 

What  circuit  thou  haat  compass'd."    From  the  honi' 

When  I  before  haJ  cast  my  view  beneath. 

All  the  fiist  region  overpass'd  I  Daw, 

Wbich  from  the  midmost  lo  the  boundary  winds ; 

That  onward,  theaee,  from  Gades,"  1  beheld 

The  unwise  passage  of  Lnertea'  son  ; 

And  hitherward  tbe  shore,'  where  thou,  Eumpa, 


Jtrw,] 


Won 


be  parcelv«il  Wvit  he  hful  puied  rrarn  the  meriihun  circle  \a 
Ihe  eOBlern  horiaon;  the  half  oraarhfimlip1ien,anll  a  qnnr- 

•  fWiH  OuiM.]    Bee  Hell.  Cula  iivl.  I<W. 

'  TluiMitre.]  Phqiiilcl».whereBofD[iii.lhBdiinghlBiQrAgB- 


A  oonstellBlio'a  off  uid  more,  had  tu'en 
Ills  pTogrem  in  the  indiuc  undenieath. 

Then  by  the  spirit,  that  doth  uever  Iotb 
Its  amoroiu  dalliaaCB  with  iny  lady'a  looks. 
Hack  with  lednubled  ardor  were  mine  eyes 
Led  uDio  her:  and  [ram  her  radiiuil  smilm, 

Did  [ightoD  on  ms,  thai  whatever  hair 

Or  art  or  nature  in  Die  liiioiBn  flesh, 

Or  ill  its  limn'd  reaembiaace,  can  cocnbine 

Through  greedy  eyea  to  take  the  soul  wilhd. 

Were,  to  Tier  beauty,  nothing.     Ila  boon  uiflue 

From  the  fait  neat  of  Ledn'  rapt  mo  forth. 

And  waBed  on  into  the  awifle*  heaven. 

What  place  tor  ealrance  Beatrice  chose, 
I  may  not  say ;  bo  uniform  was  all, 
Livoliegt  and  lotlieaL     She  my  sacret  wuh 


Hn  the  love,  which  mlelh  o'er  iU 
jlod,  and  the  virlne,  that  it  aheds 
ircle,  light  atid  love,  encinaping  it 


nod,  ita  limit  only  known. 
ited  nnlo  them  forth. 


i 


11^-135,         PARADISE,  Canto  XXVIL  ^3 

Look  elsewhere  for  the  leaves.     O  mortal  lust  { 

That  canst  not  lift  thy  head  above  the  waves 

Which  whelm  and  shik  thee  down.     The  will  in  ggtn 

Bears  goodly  blossoms ;  but  its  ruddy  promise 

Is,  by  the  dripping  of  perpetual  rain. 

Made  mere  abortion :  faith  and  innocence 

Are  met  with  but  in  babes  ;  each  taking  leave, 

Ere  cheeks  with  down  are  sprinkled :  he,  that  fasts 

While  yet  a  stammerer,  witn  his  tongue  let  loose 

Gluts  every  food  alike  in  every  moon : 

One,  yet  a  babbler,  loves  and  listens  to 

His  mother ;  but  no  sooner  hath  free  use 

Of  speech,  than  he  doth  wish  her  in  her  grave. 

So  suddenly  doth  the  fair  child  of  him,^ 

Whose  welcome  is  the  mom  and  eve  his  parting, 

To  negro  blackness  change  her  virgin  white. 

"  Thou,  to  abate  thy  wonder,  note,  that  none' 
Bears  rule  in  earth ;  and  its  frail  family 
Are  therefoi*e  wanderers.     Yet  before  the  date,* 
When,   through   the   hundredth   in  his  reckoning 
Pale  January  must  be  shoved  aside  [dropp'd, 

From  winter's  calendar,  these  heavenly  spheres 
Shall  roar  so  loud,  that  fortune  shall  he  fydu* 


Time,  and  the  heaven  that  turneth  o'er  oar  heads, 
Are  but  as  one ;  and  if  the  heaven  turn'd  not. 
That,  which  depends  on  time,  were  tiiru'd  away. 

1  The  fair  child  of  him.]  There  is  somethini?  very  similar 
in  our  author's  Treatise  de  Monarchia.  iib.  i.  p.  104.  "Hu- 
manum  genas  filius  est  coeii  quod  est  perfectissimum  in  omni 
opere  suo.  General  enim  homo  hominem  et  sol  juxta  secun- 
dum in  Naturali  Auditu."  This,  therefore,  is  intended  for  a 
philosophical  truth,  and  not  for  a  figure,  as  when  Pindar  calls 
"  the  day"  "  child  of  the  sun  :" 

*Afjiepav 
ira7S'  'AA/ov.  01.,  ii.  50. 

*  JV*<m«.]  Because,  as  has  been  before  said,  the  shepherds 
are  become  wolves. 

*  Before  the  date.]  "  Before  many  ages  are  past ;  before 
those  fractions,  which  are  dropped  in  the  reclconing  of  every 
year,  shall  amount  to  so  large  a  portion  of  time,  that  January 
shall  be  no  more  a  winter  month."  By  this  periphrasis  is 
meant  *'  in  a  short  time ;"  as  we  say  familiarly,  such  a  thing 
will  happen  before  a  thousand  years  are  over,  when  we  mean, 
It  will  happen  soon.    Thus  Petrarch: — 

Ben  sa  ch'  il  prova,  e  fiati  cosa  plana 

Anzi  mill'  anni.  TVionfo  HAmorty  cap.  i. 

*  Fortune  shall  be  fain.]  The  commentators,  in  general, 
suppose,  that  our  Poet  here  augurs  that  great  reform,  which 
he  vainly  hoped  would  follow  on  the  arrival  of  the  Empenor 
Henry  VII.  in  Italy.    Lombard!  refers  the  progaosticatioa  to 


THE  ViaOH. 


To  tnni  Ihe  poop,  wbare 
So  UiBl  lUe  fleel  tun  onv 
Expected  lang,  sIibU  ccd' 


13S-J3B. 
now  the  prow  ; 
the  bloom." 


CANTO     XKVIIL 


So  she,  who  doth  imparadiBe  my  soul. 
Had  drawn  the  veil  from  off  out  present  IH 
And  bared  the  truth  of  poor  tnortalitf : 


Hai 


id  turneth  to  resolve 
I  told  him  true,  an 


flamljeau  st  his  back, 
D  deem  of  lis  appmach, 

I  sees  the  record  faithful 


I  well  remember,  did  befall  to  me, 

Looking  upon  the  beauleaia  eyes,  whence  love 

Had  made  the  leasli  lo  take  me.    As  1  tum'd ; 

And  that  which  none,  who  in  thnt  volume'  loo 

Con  misa  of,  in  itself  apparent,  struck 

My  view ;  a  point  I  saw,  thai  dnned  light 

o_  _i _,  .'j^  unclosing,  may  bear  up 

.ennew.     The  least  fllar  Vfe  k 
From  henoB,  had  seein'd  a  moon  ;  set  by  il 
Aa  star  by  side  of  star.     And  bo  far  off, 
Ferclianne,  as  is  the  halo  from  Ibe  light 
Which  painls  it,  when.  moM  dense  the  vapor  sp 
There  wheel'd  about  the  point  a  circle  of  firo, 
More  rapid  than  the  motion  which  surronndj. 
Speediest,  the  world.      Another  this  enhDg'd; 
And  Ibat  a  third  ;  the  tljird  a  Iburlh,  and  Ibal 
A  fifth  encompass'd  ;  which  a  sixth 
And  over  this,  a  seventh,  followinff,  reoch'd 
Circumference  so  ample,  Ihot  its  bow. 


S9-M.  PARADISE,  Canto  XXVIU.  6^^ 

Within  the  q»an  of  Juno's  messenger, 
Had  scarce  been  held  entire.     Beyond  the  seventh) 
Ensued  yet  other  two.     And  every  one, 
As  more  in  number  distant  from  the  first, 
Was  tardier  in  motion :  and  that  glow'd 
With  flame  most  pure,  that  to  the  [^>arkle  of  trut|i, 
Was  nearest ;  as  partaking  most,  methinks, 
Of  its  reality.    The  guide  beloved 
Saw  me  in  anxious  thought  suspense,  and  ^ake : 
"  Heaven,  and  all  nature,  hangs  up<m  that  point.^ 
The  circle  thereto  most  conjoin'd  observe ; 
And  know,  that  by  intenser  love  its  course 
Is,  to  this  swiftness,  wing'd."     To  whom  I  thus : 
**  It  were  enough ;  nor  should  I  further  seek, 
Had  I  but  witness'd  order,  in  the  world 
Appointed,  such  as  in  these  wheels  is  seen. 
But  in  the  sensible  world  such  difference*  is, 
That  in  each  round  shows  more  divinity. 
As  each  is  wider  from  the  centre.     Hence, 
If  in  this  wondrous  and  angelic  temple. 
That  hath,  for  confine,  only  light  and  love. 
My  wish  may  have  completion,  I  must  knowy 
Wherefore  such  disagreement  is  between 
The  exemplar  and  its  copy  :  for  myself, 
Contemplating,  I  fail  to  pierce  the  cause." 
"  It  is  no  marvel,  if  thy  fingers  foil'd 


1  Heaven,  and  all  nature,  hangs  upon  that  point]  ix  rotaH- 
rrii  ipa  dpx^f  fjpnjTai  b  obpavbs  Koi  h  <fnaais.  Aristot.  Metaph^ 
lib.  xii.  c.  7.  "  From  thpit  beginning  depend  heaven  and  na- 
ture." 

s  Svuih  difference.]  The  material  world  and  the  intelUgen- 
tial  (the  copy  and  the  pattern)  appear  to  Dante  to  diflfer  in 
this  respect,  that  the  orbits  of  the  latter  are  more  swift,  the 
nearer  they  are  to  the  centre,  whereas  the  contrary  is  the 
case  with  the  orbits  of  the  former.  The  seeming  contradic- 
tion is  thus  accounted  for  by  Beatrice.  In  the  material 
world,  the  more  ample  the  body  is,  the  greater  is  the  good, 
of  which  it  is  capable ;  supposing  all  the  parts  to  be  equally 
perfect.  Bat  in  the  intelligential  world,  the  circles  are 
more  excellent  and  powerful,  the  more  they  approximate  to 
the  central  point,  which  is  Gk>d.  Thus  the  first  circle,  that 
of  the  seraphim,  corresponds  to  the  ninth  sphere,  or  primum 
mobile;  the  second,  that  of  the  cherubim,  to  the  eighth 
sphere,  or  heaven  of  fixed  stars;  the  third,  or  circle  of 
thrones,  to  the  seventh  sphere,  or  planet  of  Saturn ;  and  In 
like  manner  throughout  the  two  other  trines  of  circles  and 
spheres. 

In  orbs 

Of  circuit  inexpressible  they  stood. 

Orb  within  orb.  JlftZton,  P.  L.y  b.  V,  SQ6« 

35 


Me 


THE  VISION. 


Do  leave  Uie  knot  uatied :  so  hard  'i 
For  want  of  tenting."     TJlu*  abe  said  :  ■■  But 
Sbe  add«l,  "  if  lliaii  wbh  thy  cure,  my  wards, 
And  enterlain  tbem  sQbtlj.     Every  orb. 
Corporeal,  doth  proportlan  Hn  extent 
Unla  the  virtue  through  its  parts  diffused. 
Tlie  greater  lilesaednees  presetves  the  more. 
The  greater  ia  the  body  (if  nil  parts 
Sliaro  equally)  Iho  more  is  lo  preseive. 
Therefore  the  circle,  whose  swift  course  enirfai 

Which  is  EDprcDie  in  knowledge  and  in  love. 
Thus  by  Lhe  virtue,  not  the  seeming  breadth 
Of  Bubn'tance,  mensuring,  thou  ^alt  aee  the  heavs 
Each  to  the  intelligence  that  mleth  it, 
GrFBtei  to  more,  and  smaller  unto  lesa, 
Suited  in  strict  and  wondraos  hannony." 

Aa  when  Ihe  north'  blows  from  hia  imlder  cl 
A  blast,  that  scours  the  sky,  forthnith  onr  air, 
Clear'd  of  the  rack  that  hung  on  it  berore, 
(itilteiBi  and.  with  hhi  beauliee  all  unveii'd. 
The  finnament  looks  forth  serene,  and  smilaa: 
Siinh  was  mj  olieer,  when  Beatrice  drove 
With  clear  reply  tlie  ahadowa  back,  and  Imlh 
Was  manifested,  oa  a  atar  in  heaven^ 
And  when  the  woida  were  ended,  not  a&lika 
To  iron  in  Ihe  furnace,  every  cirque, 
Ebidlient,  shot  forth  acintiUating  fires : 
And  every  sparse  shivering  to  new  blase, 
in  number'  did  outmillion  Ihe  account 
Reduplicate  upon  thccbecker'd  board. 
Then  heard  I  echoing  on,  from  choir  to  ohoji, 
"  Hoaanna,"  lo  the  Bied  point,  that  holds. 
And  ahalt  for  ever  hold  them  to  then-  place. 
From  evetlaaling,  irremovable. 

Miiaing:  awhile  1  stood  :  and  she,  who  aaw 
My  inwiml  meditationa,  thus  began: 
"  In  the  first  circles,  they,  whom  thou  iMheld'at, 
Are  seraphim  and  cherubim.     Thus  swift 


SS-M.  ^^1 


94-127.  PARADISE,  Canto  XXVIH.  647 

Follow  their  hoops,  in  likeness  to  the  point, 
Near  as  they  can,  approaching ;  and  they  can 
The  more,  the  loftier  their  vision.     Those, 
That  round  them  fleet,  gazing  the  Godhead  next, 
Are  thrones ;  in  whom  the  first  trine  ends.     And  all 
Are  blessed,  even  as  their  sight  descends 
Deeper  into  the  truth,  wherein  rest  is 
For  every  mind.     Thus  happiness  hath  root 
In  seeing,  not  in  loving,  which  of  sight 
Is  aftergrowth.     And  of  the  seeing  such 
The  meed,  as  unto  each,  in  due  degree, 
Grace  and  good -will  their  measure  have  assigned. 
The  other  trine,  that  with  still  opening  buds  ^ 
In  this  eternal  springtide  blossom  fair. 
Fearless  of  bruising  from  the  nightly  ram,^ 
Breathe  up  in  warbled  melodies  threefold 
Hoeannas,  blending  ever ;  from  the  three, 
Transmitted,  hierarchy  of  gods,  for  aye 
Rejoicing  ;  dominations^  first ;  next  them. 
Virtues  ;  and  powers  the  third  ;  the  next  to  whom 
Are  princedoms  and  archangels,  with  glad  round 
To  tread  their  festal  ring  ;  and  last,  the  band 
Angelical,  disporting  in  then:  sphere. 
All,  as  they  circle  in  their  orders,  look 
Aloft ;  and,  downward,  with  such  sway  prevail, 
That  all  with  mutual  impulse  tend  to  God. 
These  once  a  mortal  view  beheld.     Desire, 
In  Dionysius,^  so  intensely  wrought. 
That  he,  as  I  have  done,  ranged  them ;  and  named 
Their  orders,  marshall'd  in  his  thought.     From  him, 
Dissentient,  one  refused  his  sacred  read. 
But  soon  as  in  this  heaven  his  doubting  eyes 
.Were  open'd,  Gregory*  at  his  error  smiled. 
Nor  marvel,  that  a  denizen  of  earth 

^  Fearless  of  bruising' from  the  nightly  ram.']  Not  injured, 
like  ttie  productions  of  onr  spring,  by  the  influence  of  an- 
turnn,  wlien  the  constellation  Aries  rises  at  sunset. 

a  Dominations.] 

Hear  all  ye  angels,  progeny  of  light, 

Thrones,  domkiations,  princedoms,  virtues,  powers. 

Milton,  P.  L.,  h.  v.  601. 

s  Dionvsius.]  The  Areopagite,  in  his  book  de  Ckslesti 
Bierarchk. 

*  Oregory.]  Gregory  the  Great.  "  Novem  vero  angelorum 
ordines  diximus ;  quia  videlicet  esse,  testante  sacro  eloqnio, 
seimus :  Angelos,  archangelos,  virtutes,  potestates,  principa- 
tnt,  dominationes,  thrones,  chembin  atque  seraphin."  Divi 
Ortjgorii,  Horn,  xxxiv.  f.  125,  ed.  Par.  1518,  fol. 


THE  VISION.  laa-IM." 

I  BBcret  tnith  ;  for  he  fa«d  learn'd' 
joh  hewdo  ot  IhesB  oar 
meas  to  lieaven'H  myiili 


-IJlt^^ 


CANTO  XXIX 

ARGUMENT. 


IhHilDglnn 


No  longer.'  IhDD  what  time  Latonn's  twins 
Covei'd  or  Libra  and  the  fleecy  star, 
Togelher  both,  girding  tiia  horiion  hang ; 
In  even  bslsmoe,  fiam  the  zenith  poised; 
Till  from  that  verge,  each,  changing  hrmisphen 
Part  the  nice  level ;  e'en  so  brief  a  epace 
Did  Beatrice's  silence  hold,    A  smile 
Sat  painted  m  her  cheek  ;  and  her  Rx'd  grna 
Bent  on  the  point,  at  which  my  vision  faird: 
WliUQ  thus,  her  words  reaumii^,  she  began ; 
"  I  speak,  nor  what  thou  woulcbt  inquire,  demuid; 
For  1  have  msTk'd  it,  where  all  time  aud  place 
Are  prosenl.    Not  for  inareise  to  liimaetf 
Of  good,  which  may  not  be  increased,  but  forth 
To  manifest  his  glory  by  its  bearae ; 
InhabituiE  hn  own  clemity, 
Beyond  time's  limit  or  what  bound  eoe'er 
To  circumscribe  Ilia  being ;  as  he  will'd. 
Into  new  natures,  like  iinlo  himself, 
EtcniEil  love  unfolded ;  nor  before. 


id  SiimyiLus  ibe  Am 


I  nf  IhB  »« 

1. 1,  p.  113,)  he  hfniMir  Iben  *H>lu'n> 
of  the  ar-venl  arden  in  the  rSaVf  - 
'orranud  in  doLsg  by  holy  BcFiptnre. 

henj]»pber«.  wbealheynra  nMudteLnoBeni- 
te  Duller  the  ilin  of  Anev.-sno  Ihe  ulJker  BBdcr 
oHhe  Minilb "''       '"™*      '^"^ 


i 


31-38.  PARADISE,  Canto  XXIX.  649 

As  if  in  dull  inaction,  torpid,  lay. 

For,  not  in  process  of  before  or  aft,^ 

Upon  these  waters  moved  the  Spirit  of  God. 

Simple  and  mix'd,  both  form  and  substance,'  forth 

To  perfect  being  started,  like  three  darts 

Shot  from  a  bow  three-corded.     And  as  ray 

In  crystal,  glass,  and  amber,  shines  entire, 

E*en  at  the  moment  of  its  issuing ;  thus 

Did,  from  the  eternal  Sovereign,  beam  entire 

His  threefold  operation,^  at  one  act 

Produced  coeval.     Yet,  in  order,  each 

Created  his  due  station  knew :  those  highest, 

Who  pure  intelligence  were  made ;  mere  power, 

The  lowest ;  in  the  midst,  bound  with  strict  league, 

Intelligence  and  power,  unsever'd  bond. 

Long  tract  of  ages  by  the  angels  past, 

Ere  the  creating  of  another  world. 

Described  on  Jerome's  pages,^  thou  hast  seen. 

1  JFbr,  not  in  process  of  before  or  aft.]  There  was  neither 
"  before  nor  after,"  no  distinction,  that  is,  of  time,  tiil  the 
creation  of  the  world. 

9  Simple  and  mt'xV,  both  form  and  substance.]  Simple  and 
unmixed  form  answers  to  "pure  intelligence,"  v.  33,  (puro 
atto,)  the  highest  of  created  l)eing;  simple  and  unmixed  sub- 
stance, to  " mere  power,"  v.  33,  (pura  potenzia,)  the  lowest; 
and  form  mixed  with  substance,  to  "  intelligence  and  power," 
V.  35,  (potenzia  con  atto,)  that  which  holds  the  middle  place 
between  the  other  two.  This,  which  appears  sufficiently 
plain,  Lombardi  has  contrived  to  perplex ;  not  being  aware 
of  the  high  sense  in  which  our  Poet  here  and  elsewhere 
uses  the  word  "  forma,"  as  the  Greeic  writers  employed  the 
term  uop^^,  and  particularly  Saint  Paul.  Philippians,  ii.  6. 
The  following  is  a  remarkable  instance  in  our  language :  "  A 
man,  though  he  have  one  form  already,  viz.  the  natural 
soul ;  it  hinders  not  but  he  may  have  also  another,  the 
quickening  Spirit  of  Grod."    Henry  More,  Disc.  xiii. 

s  His  threefold  operation.]  He  means  that  spiritual  beings, 
Inrute  matter,  and  the  intermediate  part  of  the  creation 
which  participates  both  of  spirit  and  matter,  were  produced 
at  once. 

For,  as  there  are  three  natures,  schoolmen  call 

One  corporal  only,  th*  other  spiritual. 

Like  single ;  so  there  is  a  third  commixt 

Of  body  and  spirit  together,  placed  betwixt 

Those  other  two.  Ben  Jonson.  Eupheme. 

*  On  Jerome's  pages.]  St.  Jerome  had  described  the  angels 
as  created  long  before  the  rest  of  the  universe :  an  opi^cm 
which  Thomas  Aquinas  controverted ;  and  the  latter,  as 
Dante  thinks,  had  scripture  on  his  side. 

"Sex  millia  nondum  nostrl  orbis  implentur  anni;  et 
quantas  prius  sternitates,  quanta  tempora,  quantas  secn- 
lorum  origines  ftiisse  arbitrandum  est,  in  quibus  Angeli, 
Throni,  Ik>minationes,  ceeterieque  Virtutes  servierint  DtBo; 


»so 


THE  VKION. 


But  that  what  1  diaclffiv  in  Ihee  le  Inie, 
ThOHB  poniuEQ,'  whom  Ihe  Holy  Spirit  movw), 
In  tntiuy  a  pasuge  of  their  eaered  book. 
Atteat ;  as  thou  by  diligent  ssereh  BhHlt  Cad. 
And  ressoii,*  in  Konm  sort,  disrenu  the  aaiDe, 
Who  Bcorce  wonld  grant  the  heavenly  nuniiil 
or  their  perfection  void,  eo  long  " 


1 


Thua 


where  t 


I  of  loye  wen  raadj 


Thou  know'al,  imd  how ;  and,  knowing,  hast  allay'd 

Thy  lliirai,  which  from  the  triplo  question'  rose. 
Ere  one  liad  reckon'd  twonly,  e'en  bo  booh. 
Fait  of  the  augelB  fell :  and,  in  thsir  rail, 
CoDfuHan  lo  your  aletneuU*  enaued. 
The  others  kept  thpir  Matiou :  aod  Ihia  task, 
Wherean  thou  kwk'st,  began,  with  such  delijifat, 
That  they  suroeaee  not  ever,  day  uor  ntgbt, 
Their  ciri:liiig.     Of  that  fatal  lapBe  the  cauae 
Was  the  CDiBBd  pride  of  him,  whom  thou  hast  sem 
Pent*  wfth  the  worid'a  uicnmbraiioe.     Thuee,  whum 
Thou  seeM,  were  lowly  Eo  confraa  theiriaelvM    (here 


ii."    TtuHsi  Jlfuimu,  SuNM  TAMfw-.  i,M 

•  fisMBii.]    The  hfavcnl/  mlniilera  [momrt)  w 

>  7»«  Irivie  i/ueiliim.]    He  bad  wished  lo  know  Hbno. 
when,  and  fanvr  the  nngelt  hud  been  creued.  ud  ibme  dm* 


:=z: 


SO-100.  PARADISE,  Canto  XXIX.  651 

Of  his  free  bounty,  who  had  made  them  apt 

For  mmistries  so  high :  therefore  their  views 

Were,  by  enlightening  grace  and  their  own  merit. 

Exalted ;  so  that  in  their  will  confirm'd 

They  stand,  nor  fear  to  fall.     For  do  not  doubt. 

But  to  receiye  the  grace,  which  Heaven  vonohsafee. 

Is  meritorious,^  even  as  the  soul 

With  prompt  affection  welcometh  the  guest 

Now,  without  further  help,  if  with  good  heed 

My  wordi  thy  mind  have  treasured,  thou  henceforth 

This  consistory  round  about  mayst  scan. 

And  gaze  thy  fill.     But,  since  thou  hast  on  earth 

Heard  vain  dispnters,  reasoners  in  the  schools. 

Canvass  the  angelic  nature,  and  dispute 

Its  powers  of  apprehension,  memory,  choice ; 

Therefore,  'tis  well  thou  take  from  me  the  truth, 

Pure  and  without  disguise ;  which  they  below, 

Equivocating,  darken  and  perplex. 

"  Know  thou,  that,  from  the  first,  these  substances, 
Rejoicing  in  the  countenance  of  God, 
Have  held  unceasingly  their  view,  intent 
Upon  the  glorious  vision,  from  the  which 
Naught  absent  is  nor  hid :  where  then  no  change 
Of  newness,  with  succession,  interrupts, 
Remembrance,  there,  needs  none  to  gather  up 
Divided  thought  and  images  remote. 

"  So  that  men,  thus  at  variance  with  the  truth. 
Dream,  though  their  eyes  be  open ;  reckless  some 
Of  error ;  others  well  aware  they  err. 
To  whom  more  guilt  and  shame  are  justly  due. 
Each  the  known  track  of  sage  philosophy 
Deserts,  and  has  a  by-way  of  his  own : 
So  much  the  restless  eagerness  to  shine, 
And  love  of  singularity,  prevail. 
Yet  this,  ofiensive  as  it  is,  provokes 
Heaven's  anger  less,  than  when  the  book  of  God 
Is  forced  to  yield  to  man's  authority, 
Or  from  its  straightness  warp'd :  no  reckoning  made 
What  blood  the  sowing  of  it  in  the  world 
Has  cost ;  what  favor  for  himself  he  wins, 
Who  meekly  clings  to  it.     The  aim  of  all 
Is  how  to  shine :  e'en  they,  whose  office  is 

__^ ' 

>  Meritorious.]  The  collator  of  the  Monte  Cassino  MS. 
boants  of  that  being  the  only  text  which  has  '*  meritorio,*' 
"  condstorio,"  and  "a<yatorio."  The  reading  is  probaUy 
Tight,  bnt  I  find  it  is  In  Landlno's  edition  of  1484,  and  Vel- 
latelle's  of  1544 ;  and  it  may,  perhaps,  be  ia  sunY  oth«ca« 


ssq: 


563  THE  VISION.  U 

To  preach  tlie  gospel,  let  the  gospel  slevp, 
And  paaa  their  own  inveatioiiB  off  inslead. 
One  tells,  how  at  Christ's  BU&ering  the  wan  mi 
Bent  biif^k  her  Qtepa,  and  shudowM  o'vt  the  eat 
With  intervenient  disk,  ua  she  withdrew : 
Another,  bow  the  light  shrouded  iteelf 
Within  iu  tabeinnclc,  and  left  dark 
The  SpBiiiardT  and  the  Indian,  with  tho  Jew^ 
Such  bblea  Florenco  iu  lier  pulpit  hears. 
Bandied  about  more  frequent,  than  the  names 
Of  Bindi  aiid  or  Lapi'  hi  her  Mreela. 
The  Bliecp,'  meanwhile,  poor  wLtlogs  onea,  reloi 
From  posture,  fed  with  wind :  and  who!  anails 
For  their  excuse,  thoy  do  not  eeo  their  bonnl 
Christ  said  not  to  hia  luat  oooTenticle, 
'  Go  forth  and  preach  impoetures  lo  tlie  world," 
But  gave  Ihcm  truth'  to  build  on  ;  and  tba  wui 
Was  mighty  on  their  lips:  nor  needed  they, 
Bende  the  Gospel,  other  ipeur  or  shield. 
To  aid  them  in  their  Warfai*  for  the  faith. 
The  preacher"  now  provides 


Ofjei 


id  gibes ;  and,  s 


lolack 


Of  laughter,  whilo  be  vents  them,  his  big 
Distendn,  and  he  baa  won  the  meed  he  Boagni: 
Conld  but  the  vulgar  catch  a  glimpse  the  whilo 
Of  thai  dark  lurd  which  nestles  in  his  hood. 
They  Bcarce  would  wail  to  hear  the  bleaenig  said, 
Which  now  the  dotardfl  hold  ill  such  esteem. 
That  every  eounlerfeil,  who  spreads  abroad 
The  bauds  of  holy  proiaiss,  finds  u  throng 
Of  credulous  fools  boneath.     Saint  Anlhony 
Fattens  with  this  his 


i 


ld&-150.  PARADISE,  Canto  XXX.  553 

Than  swine,  who  diet  at  his  lazy  board, 
Paying  with  tmstamp'd  metaP  for  their  fate. 

"  But  (for  we  far  have  wander'd)  let  ns  seek 
The  forward  path  again ;  so  as  the  way 
Be  shortened  with  the  time.    No  mortal  tongue. 
Nor  thought  of  man,  hath  ever  reach*d  so  far, 
That  of  these  natures  he  might  count  the  tribes. 
What  DanieP  of  their  thousands  hath  revealM, 
With  finite  number,  infinite  conceals.  [beams, 

The   fidontain,  at  whose  source  these  drink  their 
With  light  supplies  them  in  as  many  modes. 
As  there  are  splendors  that  it  shines  on :  each 
According  to  the  virtue  it  conceives. 
Differing  in  love  and  sweet  affection. 
Look  then  how  lofty  and  how  huge  m  breadth 
The  eternal  might,  which,  broken  and  dispersed 
Over  such  countless  mirrors,  yet  remains 
Whole  in  itself  and  one,  as  at  the  first." 


CANTO    XXX. 


ARGUMENT. 

Dante  is  taken  np  with  Beatrice  into  the  empyrean ;  and 
there  having  his  sight  strengthened  by  her  aid,  and  by 
the  virtue  derived  from  looking  on  the  river  of  light,  he 
sees  the  triomph  of  the  angels  and  of  the  souls  of  the 
blessed. 

Noon's  fervid  hour  perchance  six  thousand  miles* 
From  hence  is  distant ;  and  the  shadowy  cone 
Almost  to  level  on  our  earth  declines ; 
When,  from  the  midmost  of  this  blue  abyss. 
By  turns  some  star  is  to  our  vision  lost 
And  straightway  as  the  handmaid  of  the  sun 
Puts  forth  her  radiant  brow,  £tll,  light  by  light, 
Fade  ;  and  the  spangled  firmament  shuts  in, 

dignity  and  privileges  of  an  independent  congregation."  See 
Mosheim's  Eccles.  History,  in  Dr.  Maclaine's  Translation, 
V.  ii.  cent.  xi.  p.  2,  c.  2,  $  ^. 

1  With  unstamped  metal.]    With  fblae  indulgences. 

*  Daniel.]  "Thousand  thousands  ministered  unto  him, 
and  ten  thousand  times  ten  thonsand  stood  before  him.** 
Daniel,  vii.  10. 

*  Six  thousand  mUes.]  He  compares  the  vanishing  of  the 
vision  to  the  fading  away  of  the  stars  at  dawn,  when  it  is 
noonday  six  thousand  miles  off,  and  the  shadow,  formed  by 
the  earth  over  the  part  of  it  inhabited  by  the  Poet,  is  about 
to  disappear. 


iss 


55i  THE  VISIOK. 

E'en  to  tUe  loreliust  of  the  gUttering  throng. 
TbuB  VBniali'd  gradually  from  my  »ght 
The  triumph,  which  plays  etet  round  the  point. 
Thai  overcame  me,  eepming  (for  it  did) 
Engirt'  by  that  it  prdeth.     Wheretbro  love, 
With  loss  of  olher  object,  forced  me  bend 
Mine  eyes  on  Beatrice  once  again. 
If  all,  that  hitherto  it  told  of  her, 
Were  in  one  pr^e  concluded,  ^tworo  Loo  weak 
To  furniali  oat  this  turn.*     Mine  eyea  did  look 
On  beauty,  ^ucb,  ae  1  behave  in  sooth. 
Not  merely  to  exceed  our  bmnan ;  hut. 
That  save  its  Maker,  none  can  In  the  fhU 
Enjoy  it.     At  this  point  o'erpDwer'd  I  (aii; 
Unequal  to  my  theme  ;  ae  never  bard 
Of  buaklu  or  of  sock  bath  foil'd  bcfom. 
For  US  the  flun  doth  to  the  feeblest  sight. 

Hath  di^poHaesfl^d  my  epirit  of  itaclf. 
Not  from  that  day,  whan  on  this  earth  I  Gnt 
Beheld  hf^r  charma,  op  to  that  view  of  tbem. 
Have  1  with  Bong  applauaivB  ever  ceased 

My  course  here  bounded,  as  each  artdst^a  is, 
When  it  doth  touch  Ihp  limit  of  his  akilt- 

Slie,  (such  09  1  bequeath  her  to  the  bruit 
Of  louder  trmtip  thun  mine,  which  haMBoeth  oot    | 
Urging  its  aiduoae  matter  to  the  clou,) 
Her  wordH  resumed,  m  gesture  and  ia  roica 
Resembling  one  uceustom'd  to  command :  ' 

"  Forth'  from  tlie  last  coiporesl  arc  we  come 
Into  (he  heavi^n,  that  is  unbodied  light ; 
Light  iutelleclual,  replete  with  love  ; 
Love  of  true  happiness,  replete  with  Joy ; 
Joy,  tlint  (ransvends  all  sweolneEB  of  delij^t- 
Hero  shalt  thou  look  ou  either  mighty  hoit* 
Of  Puredise  ;  and  one  in  tliat  array. 
Which  in  the  fina]  judgment  thou  ahalt  see." 

1  SHjfirt-i    "A^ipHarkDg  to  t»  encompoMsd  by  Ihi 


*7-83.  PARADISE,  Canto  XXX.  555 

Afi  when  the  lightning,  in  a  sudden  spleen 
Unfolded,  dashes  from  the  blinding  eyes 
The  visive  spirits,  dazzled  and  bedimm'd ; 
So,  round  about  me,  fulminating  streams 
Of  living  radiance  play'd,  and  left  me  swath'd 
And  veil'd  in  dense  impenetrable  blaze. 
Such  weal  is  in  the  love,  that  stills  this  heaven ; 
For  its  own  flame'  the  torch  thus  fitting  ever. 

No  sooner  to  my  listening  ear  had  come 
The  brief  assurance,  than  I  understood 
New  virtue  into  me  infused,  and  sight 
Kindled  afresh,  with  vigor  to  sustain 
Excess  of  light  however  pure.     I  look'd ; 
And,  in  the  likeness  of  a  river,  saw 
Light  flowing,'  from  whose  amber-seeming  waves 
Flash'd  up  effulgence,  as  they  glided  on 
'Twixt  banks,  on  either  side,  painted  with  spring, 
Incredible  how  fair :  and,  from  the  tide, 
There  ever  and  anon,  outstarting,  flew 
Sparkles  instinct  with  life  ;  and  in  the  flowen 
Did  set  them,  like  to  rubies  chased  in  gold: 
Then,  as  if  drunk  with  odors,  plunged  agam 
Into  the  wondrous  flood ;  from  which,  as  one 
Re-enter'd,  still  another  rose.     "  The  thirst 
Of  knowledge  high,  whereby  thou  art  inflamed, 
To  search  the  meaning  of  what  here  thou  seest, 
The  more  it  warms  thee,  pleases  me  the  more. 
But  first  behooves  thee  of  this  water  drink. 
Or  e'er  that  longing  be  allay'd."     So  spake 
The  daystar  of  mine  eyes :  then  thus  subjoined : 
"  This  stream  ;  and  these,  forth  issuing  fh>m  its  gulf. 
And  diving  back,  a  living  topaz  each ; 
With  all  this  laughter  on  its  bloomy  shores ; 
Are  but  a  preface,  shadowy  of  the  truth* 
They  emblem :  not  that,  in  themselves,  the  things 
Are  crude  ;  but  on  thy  part  is  the  defect, 
For  that  thy  views  not  yet  aspire  so  high." 

1  For  its  oirn  flame.]    Thus  disposing  the  spirits  to  receive 
its  own  beatific  light. 

3  Light  flowing.]    "  And  he  shewed  me  a  pure  river  of 
water  of  life,  clear  as  crystal,  proceeding  out  of  the  throne 
of  God  and  of  the  Lamb.**    Rev.  xxii.  1. 
Underneath  a  bright  sea  flow*d 
Of  jasper  or  of  liquid  pearl. 

Milton,  P.  L.f  b.  iil.  518. 
*  Shadotoy  of  the  truth.] 

Son  di  lor  vero  ombriferi  prefazii. 

So  Mr.  Coleridge,  in  his  Religions  Musings,  v.  406. 

Life  is  a  vision  shadowy  of  trul^. 


6Sfi 


THE  TlSIOPi. 


It  did  b&be  thai  had  oalslept  bis  woot, 
Riish,  wilb  such  eager  Btramiog.  lo  the  milk. 
As  1  toward  the  water;  bfnding  me, 
Ta  tiialie  the  better  mirron  of  mine  eyea 

Of  mine  eyelids'  did  driuk  of  it,  forthwith 
Seciu'd  it  unto  me  Imn'd  from  length  to  roimd. 
Then  oa  a  troop  of  uiaEkers,  when  tliey  pnt 
Their  viaoTS  off,  look  otbec  tlion  before ; 
The  coiinterfeiled  setoblance  throwo  srade: 
So  into  greater  jubijee  were  changed 
Those  flowers  and  BjiarlileB  1  and  distinct  I  saw, 

O  prime  enllgbtenet !  thou  who  gavesl  mo  stt 
On  the  high  tiiuirv]^  of  Ihy  reahn  to  gaze ; 
OrauC  virtue  now  to  ullar  what  I  kenn'd. 

There  Is  in  bes,Teu  a  li^t,  whose  goodly  sbiiw 
Mokes  llie  Creator  vimhie  to  all 
Created,  that  in  eeeiiig  him  alone 
Have  iieace  ;  uud  m  »  circle  spreads  so  bx, 
That  the  uircumfoience  were  too  loose  a  zono 
To  ^idle  iu  the  suu.    All  la  one  beam, 
Kellecled  Erom  the  suuunit  of  the  firal. 
That  mores,  which  being  hence  aud  TlgDr  taket 
And  OB  some  cliff,'  thai  fram  the  botlora  efe« 
Hie  image  niirro^d  in  the  crs'stal  flood. 
As  if  to  admire  his  brave  appnrelling 
Of  verdmu  and  of  flowers;  so,  round  aboot, 
Eying  the  light,  on  more  than  raimiai  thranea. 
Stood,  eminent,  whatever  from  our  earth 
Has  lo  the  skies  retum'd.     How  wide  the  levm, 
Extended  lo  their  utmost,  of  the  roae, 
Whose  lowest  step  emboaoma  auch  a  space 
Of  ample  radioiieo  !     Yet,  nor  amplitude 
Nor  height  impeded,  but  my  view  with  ease* 
Took  in  the  full  diraenaions  of  that  joy. 

1,  what  there  avails,  v»bere  God 


121-146.         PARADISE,  Canto  XXXI.  667 

Immediate  rules,  and  Nature,  awed,  suspends 
Her  sway  ?     Into  the  yellow  of  the  rose 
Perennial,  which,  in  bright  expansiveness. 
Lays  forth  its  gradual  blooming,  redolent 
Of  praises  to  the  never- wintering  sun. 
As  one,  who  fain  would  speak,  yet  holds  his  peace, 
Beatrice  led  me ;  and,  "  Behold,"  she  said, 
"  This  fair  assemblage  ;  stoles  of  snowy  white, 
How  numberless.    The  city,  where  we  dwell. 
Behold  how  vast ;  and  these  our  seats  so  throng'd, 
Few  now  are  wanting  here.     In  that  proud  stall,' 
On  which,  the  crown,  already  o'er  its  state 
Suspended,  holds  thine  eyes — or  e'er  thyself 
Mayst  at  the  wedding  sup, — shall  rest  the  soul 
Of  the  great  Harry,'  he  who,  by  the  world 
Augustus  hail'd,  to  Italy  must  come. 
Before  her  day  be  ripe.     But  ye  are  sick. 
And  in  your  tetchy  wantonness  as  blind. 
As  is  the  bantling,  that  of  hunger  dies. 
And  drives  away  the  nurse.    Nor  may  it  be. 
That  he,'  who  in  the  sacred  forum  sways. 
Openly  or  in  secret,  shall  with  him 
Accordant  walk  :  whom  God  will  not  endure 
I'  the  holy  office  long ;  but  thrust  him  down 
To  Simon  Magus,  where  Alagna's  priest* 
Will  sink  beneath  him :  such  will  be  his  meed." 


CANTO    XXXI. 


ARGUMENT. 
The  Poet  expatiates  further  on  the  glorious  vision  described 

.1  In  that  proud  stall.]  "  Ostenditque  mihi  circa  Paradisum 
tectum  Claris  et  splendidissimis  operiiuentis  adomatnm — ^In  quo 
iecto  quendam  jacere  conspexi  cujus  nonien  ab  Apostolo  au- 
divi,  sed  prohibuit  ne  cui  illud  dicerem."  jllberici  Visio,  $  31. 

*  Of  the  great  Harry.]    The  Emperor  Henry  VIL,  who  died 
in  1313.    "  Henry,  Count  of  Luxemburgh,  held  the  imperial 

Sower  three  years,  seven  months,  and  eighteen  days,  from  his 
rst  coronation  to  his  death.  He  was  a  man  wise,  and  just, 
and  gracious ;  bravo  and  intrepid  in  arms  ;  a  man  of  honor, 
and  a  good  Catholic  ;  and  although  by  his  lineage  he  was  of 
no  great  condition,  yet  he  was  of  a  magnanimous  heart, 
much  feared  and  held  in  awe ;  and  if  he  had  lived  longer, 
would  have  done  the  greatest  things/'  O.  VUlani,  lib.  ix. 
cap.  1.  Compare  Dino  Compagni,  Muratori,  Rer.  Ital.  Script, 
torn.  ix.  lib.  iil.  p.  524,  and  Fazio  degli  Uberti,  Dittamondo. 
L.  ii.  cap.  30. 

»  He,']    Pope  Clement  V.    See  Canto  xxvli.  53. 

*  Alagna's  priest.]  Pope  Boniface  V  111.  He\V,CM!t\ftT\i..1?^ 


nnhili. 


Urn  thE  bleuodDeM  of  the  Vlrglo  Molbei. 
In  Tiubian,  ob  a  auow-white  nwe,  lay  tbeo 
Before  my  view  tlie  saintly  multitude, 
Which  ID  his  ornx  blood  Chrivt  eaponnd. 
Thai  other  host,''  that  aosi  aloH  to  gaze 
And  celebnile  his  glory,  whom  they  iove, 
Uover'd  aiomid  ;  and,  like  a  troop  o(  bees,' 
Amid  the  Temal  uweeta  alighting  now. 
Now,  eluBtering,  where  their  fragrant  labor  j^owi. 
Flow  downwaM  to  the  mighty  Boner,  or  rosB 
From  the  redundaul  potals,  atteamiu^  baei^ 
Unto  the  steadfast  dwelling  of  their  joy. 
Faces  had  they  of  Same,  and  winfp  of  goM  i* 
The  rest  was  whiter  than  the  driven  suow  ; 
And,  as  they  flitted  down  mto  Uie  Oowei, 
From  range  to  range,  fanning  their  plumy  laiWr 
WhiBpor'd  the  pence  and  ardor,  wiiicti  tbey  wuv 
From  tliut  soft  wiiuiowiiig.    Shadow  oovui,  tbs  nit 
Interpoeitiou  of  siioh  numerouji  Sig^t 
Cast,  from  above,  upon  the  flower,  or  view 
Ohstmctsd  aught.     For,  through  the  aaivenie, 
Wliererer  merited,  celestial  light 
(iUdes  freely,  and  no  obBlaclo  prevcnls. 

All  there,  who  reign  in  safety  and  in  UiBB, 
Ages  long  post  or  new,  on  one  sole  mark 
Tlieir  love  uud  vision  fii'd.     O  Irinal  beam 
Of  individual  star,  that  chalm'st  them  tlius! 
VoucliBofe  one  glance  to  gild  our  storm  below.' 

If  Ibe  grim  brood,'  from  AccI 


icsbores  that  coam'd, 


u'nl/y  iKlliYiufg.J    I 


I.  S7.  WJia.  JE 


(ho  middle  p«lr 

id  iblBhi  with  downy  (old. 

MilUn.  I*.  Z-,  !>. «. 
m  bilini.)    To  (uldc  HI  Ibnnili  tt 


«K0.  PARADISE,  Canto  XXXI.  5^^ 

(Where  Helice^  for  ever,  as  she  wheels. 
Sparkles  a  mother's  fondness  on  her  son,) 
Stood  in  mute  wonder  'mid  the  works  of  Rome, 
When  to  their  view  the  Lateran  arose' 
In  greatness  more  than  earthly ;  I,  who  then 
From  human  to  divine  had  pass'd,  from  time 
Unto  eternity,  and  out  of  Florence 
To  justice  and  to  truth,  how  might  I  choose 
But  marvel  too  ?     'Twixt  gladness  and  amaze, 
In  sooth  no  will  had  I  to  utter  aught, 
Or  hear.    And,  as  a  pilgrim,  when  he  rests 
Within  the  temple  of  his  vow,  looks  round 
In  breathless  awe,  and  hopes  some  time  to  tell 
Of  all  its  goodly  state  ;  e'en  so  mhie  eyes 
Coursed  up  and  down  along  the  living  light, 
Now  low,  and  now  aloft,  and  now  around, 
Yisituig  every  step.     Looks  I  beheld. 
Where  charity  in  soft  persuasion  sat ; 
Smiles  from  withm,  and  radiance  from  above ; 
And,  in  each  gesture,  grace  and  honor  high. 

So  roved  my  ken,  and  in  its  general  form 
All  Paradise  survey'd :  when  round  I  tum'd 
With  purpose  of  my  lady  to  inquire 
Once  more  of  things,  that  held  my  thought  suspense. 
But  answer  found  from  other  than  I  ween'd ; 
For,  Beatrice  when  I  thought  to  see, 
I  saw  instead  a  senior,  at  my  side. 
Robed,  as  the  rest,  in  glory.    Joy  benign 
Glow'd  in  his  eye,  and  o'er  his  cheek  diffused. 
With  gestures  such  as  spake  a  father's  love. 
And,  "  Whither  is  she  vanish'd  ?"  straight  I  ask'd. 

"  By  Beatrice  summon'd,"  he  replied, 

^  Heiiee.]  Callisto,  and  her  son  Areas,  changed  into  the 
constellations  of  the  Greater  Bear  and  Arctophylax,  or  Bootes. 
See  Ovid,  Met,  lib.  ii.  fab.  v.  vi. 

3  The  Lateran  arose.} 

quando  Laterano 

Alle  cose  mortali  andb  di  sopra. 

This  reminds  us  of  the  celebrated  passage  in  Akenside ; 

Mark  how  the  dread  Pantheon  stands, 
Amid  the  domes  of  modem  hands. 

Ode  zviii.  b.  1. 

It  is  remarkable  that  Dante  has  no  allusion  to  the  magnifi- 
cence of  Gothic  architecture,  which  was  then  in  so  much 
perfection,  and  which,  as  Tiraboschi  endeavors  to  show,  by  a 
passage  in  Cassiodorus,  describing  its  peculiar  character  of 
slender  columns  and  lanceated  arches,  was  introduced  into 
Italy  so  early  as  the  end  of  the  fifth  century.  See  Stor.  della 
Lett  Ital.,  torn.  iii.  lib.  i. 


500  THE  VreiON.  Bl-M. 

"  1  come  to  aid  thy  wish.     Ijooking  aloft 

loths  third  circle  from  the  higliMl,  there 

Behold  her  od  tha  Ihrone,  wherein  her  merit 

llntb  placed  her."     Aoawering  not,    mine    ey«s    I 

Aud  saw  her,  where  aloof  she  gat,  hnr  brow 

Unto  the  region  of  the  highest  thunder. 
As  was  my  ken  from  hen ;  and  yet  the  fonu 
Came    through    that    medium   down,  unmii'd    and 
pure. 

"  0  lady  I  thou  in  whom  mj  hopes  have  teat ; 
Who,  for  my  aafety,  host  not  scoru'd,  in  hell 
To  leave  the  traces  of  Ihy  foolatepB  mark'd  ; 
For  all  mine  eyea  hove  seen,  I  to  ihy  power 
And  goodnees,  virtue  owe  and  grace.     Of  slave 
Thoci  hael  to  freedom  brought  mo ;  and  no  means, 
For  niy  deliverance  apt,  hast  loft  untried. 
Thy  liberal  bounty  fltill  toward  me  keep : 
That,  when  my  spirit,  which  thon  madost  whole, 
la  loooen^d  from  this  body,  il  may  find 
Favor  with  Ihoe."     So  I  my  suit  preferi'dt 
And  she,  BO  difltujil,  as  appcnr'd,  look'd  donii. 
Aud  smiled  ;  then  towards  the  elema!  foanlain  lum'd. 

And  thus  tlio  senior,  holy  and  revered ; 
"  That  thou  at  length  mayst  happily  conclude 
Thy  voyage,  (to  which  end  I  was  dispatch'd. 
By  supplication  moved  and  holy  love,) 
Let  Ihy  upaoaring  ™ion  range,  at  Isree, 
This  garden  through  :  for  so,  by  ray  i^vine 
Kindled,  Ihy  ken  a  higher  6ighl  shall  mount ; 
And  from  heavou's  queen,  whom  fervent  I  adore. 
All  graciauH  aid  beiVicnd  us;  for  that  I 
Am  her  own  faithful  Bematd,'"     Like  a  wight. 


■iSw 


!  ''ooreptUia  of  Uie  Virgin.  aoJ 


91^118.  PARADISE,  Canto  XXXI.  561 

Who  ha|dy  from  Croatia  wends  to  see 

Oar  Veronica  ;^  and,  the  while  'tis  showS} 

Hangs  over  it  with  never-sated  gaze, 

And,  all  that  he  hath  heard  revolving,  saith 

Unto  himself  in  thought :  "  And  didst  thou  look 

E'en  thus,  O  Jesus,  my  true  Lord  and  God  ? 

And  was  this  semblance  thine  V*     So  gazed  I  then 

Adoring ;  for  the  charity  of  him,^ 

Who  musing,  in  this  world  that  peace  enjoy'd. 

Stood  livelily  before  me.   "  Child  of  grace !" 

Thus  he  began :  "  thou  shalt  not  knowledge  gain 

Of  this  glad  being,  if  thine  eyes  are  held 

Still  in  this  depth  below.     But  search  around 

The  circles,  to  the  furthest,  till  thou  spy 

Seated  in  state,  the  queen,'  that  of  this  realm 

Is  sovereign."  Straight  mine  eyes  I  raised ;  and  bright. 

As,  at  the  birth  of  mom,  the  eastern  clime 

Above  the  horizon,  where  the  sun  declines ; 

So  to  mine  eyes,  that  upward,  as  from  vale 

To  mountain  sped,  at  the  extreme  bound,  a  part 

Ezcell'd  in  lustre  all  the  front  opposed. 

And  as  the  glow  bums  ruddiest  o'er  the  wave, 

That  waits  Sie  ascending  team,  which  Phadton 

ni  knew  to  guide,  and  on  each  part  the  light 

Diminish'd  fades,  intensest  in  the  midst ; 

supposed  her  being  honored  with  a  privilege  which  belonged 
to  Christ  alone.*'  Dr.  Maelaine^a  MosKeim,  vol.  iii.  cent  zii. 
part  ii.  c.  iU.  $  19. 

*  Our  Veronica.] 

A  vemicle  had  he  sewed  upon  his  cappe. 

Chaucer,  Prol.  to  the  Cki,nterbury  Tales. 

"  Vemicle,  diminutive  of  Veronike,  Fr.  A  copy  in  minia- 
ture of  the  picture  of  Christ,  which  is  supposed  to  have  been 
miraculously  imprinted  upon  a  luindlcerchief  preserved  in 
the  church  of  St.  Peter  at  Rome.  Du  Ckinge  in  v.  Veronica, 
Madox,  Form.  Angl.  1.  p.  428,  Testam.  Jon.  de  Nevill.  an. 
1386.  Item  Domino  Archiepiscopo  Eborum  fratri  meo,  ves- 
timentum  rubeum  de  velvet  cum  le  verouike  (r.  Veronike) 
in  granis  rosarum  de  super  Brondata,  (r.  broudata.)  It  was 
tuual  for  persons  returning  from  pilgrimages,  to  bring  with 
them  certain  tokens  of  the  several  places  which  they  had 
visited ;  and  therefore  the  Pardoner,  who  is  just  arrived  from 
Rome,  is  represented  with  a  vemicle  sewed  upon  his  cappe. 
See  Pierce  Plowman,  28  b."  T^^nohitt^e  Oiossary  to  Chaucer. 
Our  Poet  alludes  to  this  custom  in  his  Vita  Niiova,  p.  275. 
"  Awenne  in  quel  tempo,"  &c.  "  It  happened,  at  that  time, 
that  many  people  were  going  to  see  that  blessed  image,  which 
Jesus  Christ  left  to  us  for  a  pattem  of  his  most  beautiful  form, 
which  my  lady  now  beholds  in  glory." 

s  Him.]    St.  Bemard. 

«  7%«  fueen.]    The  Virgin  Mary. 

36 


THE  VISION. 


Il»-u3^^^ 


Bo  bum'd  tbe  pencaful  oriflunb,'  and  Black'd 
On  every  side  the  living  flame  deeay'd. 
And  in  >hat  midst  their  sportive  pennoiia  waved 
ThouBandx  of  angels  ;  in  respleadence  each 
Distinct,  and  quaint  adornment.     At  llieir  ^ee 
And  caral,  smiled  the  Lovely  One  of  heBTen, 
That  joy  was  in  the  eyes  of  all  the  hlosL 

Had  I  a  tongue  in  eloquence  as  rich. 
As  is  the  coloring  in  fancy's  loom, 
""  "  "  le  least  part 


Of  lb 


It  on  her,  that 


When  he  saw  n: 
lann'd  him  ;    ' 


ANTO   XXXII 


iLr  MflX'Diat  UUDUBSi  the  o^ 


Feeglv  the  suge,  though  wrapt  in  mosin^  big) 
Assumed  the  lencher's  part,  and  mdd  began: 
"  The  wauud,  that  Mary  closed,  she'  opea'd  finl^il 
Who  ttits  i»  beautiful  at  Mary's  feel  " 

The  third  in  order,  imd^rtteath  her,  lo  1 
Bachel  wilh  Bealrioe:  Sarah  Hint ; 
Judith ;  Rebecca  ;  and  the  gleaner-maid, 
Meek  ancestrOBs'  of  him,  who  sang  the  aongi 
Of  sore  repeutancB  in  his  sorrowful  mood. 
All,  as  I  name  them,  down  from  leaf  to  l«af. 
Are,  in  gradaliou,  Ihronod  on  llie  rose. 
And  frein  the  seventh  step,  suooeusively, 
Adown  the  breathing  tresses  of  the  flower, 
^itill  dotli  Ihe  file  of  Hebrew  domes  proc«od. 
For  these  are  a  partition  wall,  whereby 

'  nriHaiKt.]    Menage  on  Ihi*  word  Ijonlos  iho  Brm 
Biiynpx  LignajiKOf  GqilLaume  Ohyon. 


16-56.  PARADISE,  Canto  XXXII.  563 

The  sacred  stairs  are  sever'd,  as  the  faith 
In  Christ  divides  them.     On  this  part,  where  blooms 
Each  leaf  in  full  maturity,  are  set 
Such  as  in  Christ,  or  e'er  he  came,  believed* 
On  the  other,  where  an  intersected  space 
Yet  shows  the  semicircle  void,  abide 
All  they,  who  look'd  to  Christ  already  come. 
And  as  our  Lady  on  her  glorious  stool, 
And  they  who  on  their  stools  beneath  her  sit. 
This  way  distinction  make  ;  e'en  so  on  his, 
The  mighty  Baptist  that  way  marks  the  line, 
(He  who  endured  the  desert,  and  the  pains 
Of  martyrdom,  and,  for  two  ycEirs,*  of  hell, 
Yet  still  continued  holy,)  and  beneath, 
Augustm  ;^  Francis  ;'  Benedict  ;*  and  the  rest, 
Thus  far  from  round  to  round.     So  heaven's  decree 
Forecasts,  this  garden  equally  to  fill. 
With  faith  in  either  view,  past  or  to  come,    [cleaves. 
Learn  too,   that   downward  from  the  step,   which 
Midway,  the  twain  compartments,  none  there  are 
Who  place  obtain  for  merit  of  their  own. 
But  have  through  others'  merit  been  advanced. 
On  set  conditions  ;  spirits  all  released. 
Ere  for  themselves  they  had  the  power  to  choose. 
And,  if  thou  mark  and  listen  to  them  well. 
Their  childish  looks  and  voice"  declare  as  much. 
"  Here,  silent  as  thou  art,  I  know  thy  doubt ; 
And  gladly  will  I  loose  the  knot,  wherein        [realm 
Thy  subtile  thoughts  have  bound  thee.     From  this 
Excluded,  chance  no  entremce  here  may  find ; 
No  more  than  hunger,  thirst,  or  sorrow  can. 
A  law  immutable  hath  stablish'd  all ; 
Nor  is  there  aught  thou  seest,  that  doth  not  fit. 
Exactly,  as  the  finger  to  the  ring. 
It  is  not,  therefore,  without  cause,  that  these, 
O'erspeedy  comers  to  immortal  life, 
Are  different  in  their  shares  of  excellence. 
Our  Sovereign  Lord,  that  settleth  this  estate 
In  love  and  in  delight  so  absolute. 
That  wish  can  dare  no  further,  every  soul. 
Created  in  his  joyous  sight  to  dwell, 

1  Thoo  years.]  The  time  that  elapsed  between  the  death 
of  the  Baptist  and  his  redemption  by  the  death  of  Christ. 

s  .augustin.]  Bishop  of  Hippo,  in  the  fourth  century' ;  the 
celebrated  writer  who  has  been  mentioned  before,Canto  x.  117. 

*  Francis.]    See  Canto  xi. 

*Baudiet.]    See  Canto  xxii. 


594  THE  TI810N.  iT-f 

Witli  gract,  at  pleaeure,  VBfioiKly'  endows. 

And  for  B  proof  the  effoel  may  well  suffice. 

And  'tis  moreoTtr  most  eipressly  mark'd 

In  holy  scriptoTe,'  where  the  ITrius  are  eaxi 

To  hare  atruggled  in  the  womb.  TheTefore,  lu  gre 

Inweavee  the  coronet,  bo  BVerj  brow 

WeaiBlh  il«  proper  hue  of  orifiil  light. 

And  merely  in  respeel  to  his  prime  gift, 

Not  in  reward  of  meritorioiU)  deed. 

HMth  each  hJB  Beveral  degree  aBagn'd. 

In  early  timea  with  their  Own  iDBocence 

More  woB  not  wDDliii^,  llun  the  parents*  full). 

To  save  them;  Ihotie  ntM  ages  pafs'd,  b^Mtved 

That  circumciBion  in  the  males  ahoiild  iipp 

The  Bight  of  innocent  winga :  hul  «nce  the  dfly 

or  nttce  hath  come,  without  baptismal  litM 

In  Christ  accompliah't!,  innoceace  herself 

Most  linger  yet  below.     Now  raise  thy  view 

Unto  the  visage  most  resembthig  Cbrst: 

For,  in  her  splendor  only,  shslt  thou  win 

The  power  to  look  on  him."     Forthirilli  I  saw 

Such  Soods  of  gladneeH  on  her  visage  sbower'd. 

From  holy  apirits,  winging  that  profooud ; 

Tliat,  whalsoEver  1  hod  yet  beheld, 

Had  not  so  moch  suspeuded  me  with  wonder. 

Or  shown  me  «uoh  simdilude  of  God. 

And  he,  who  bad  to  her  descended,  once. 

On  esrlh,  now  hail'd  in  heaven  ;  and  onpaaeA  w'a 

"  Ave,  Maria,  Gratia  Plena,"  aans: 

To  whose  aweet  authem  all  the  Uiaaful  coatt. 

From  all  parte  ans? 

Brooded  the  deep  se 


I 


89-132.  PARADISE,  Canto  XXXH.  56$ 

Who  deign'st,  for  me,  to  quit  the  pleasant  place, 
Wherein  thou  sittest,  by  eternal  lot ; 
Say,  who  that  angel  is,  that  with  such  glee 
Beholds  our  queen,  and  so  enamor'd  glows 
Of  her  high  beauty,  that  all  fire  he  seenos." 

So  I  again  resorted  to  the  lore 
Of  my  wise  teacher,  he,  whom  Mary's  charms 
Embellished,  as  the  sun  the  morning  star ; 
Who  thus  in  answer  spake :  "  In  hun  are  summ'd, 
Whate'er  of  buxomness  and  free  delight 
May  be  in  spirit,  or  m  angel,  met : 
And  so  beseems :  for  that  he  bare  the  palm 
Down  unto  Mary,  when  the  son  of  Grod 
VoucliBafed  to  clothe  him  in  terrestrial  weeds. 
Kow  let  thine  eyes  wait  heedful  on  my  words ; 
And  note  thou  of  this  just  and  pious  realm 
The  chiefest  nobles.     Those,  highest  in  bliss, 
The  twain,  on  each  hand  next  our  empress  throned, 
Are  as  it  were  two  roots  unto  this  rose : 
He  to  the  left,  the  parent,  whose  rash  taste 
Proves  bitter  to  his  seed ;  and,  on  the  right. 
That  ancient  father  of  the  holy  church. 
Into  whose  keeping  Christ  did  give  the  keys 
Of  this  sweet  flower ;  near  whom  behold  the  seer,^ 
That,  ere  he  died,  saw  all  the  grievous  times 
Of  the  fair  bride,  who  with  the  lance  and  nails 
Was  won.    And,  near  unto  the  other,  rests 
The  leader,  under  whom,  on  manna,  fed 
The  ungrateful  nation,  fickle  and  perverse. 
On  the  other  part,  facing  to  Peter,  lo ! 
Where  Anna  sits,  so  well  content  to  look 
On  her  loved  daughter,  that  with  moveless  eve 
She  chants  the  loud  hosanna :  while,  opposea 
To  the  first  father  of  your  mortal  kind. 
Is  Lucia,^  at  whose  best  thy  lady  sped. 
When  on  the  edge  of  ruin  closed  thine  eye. 

"  But  (for  the  vision  hasteneth  to  an  end) 
Here  break  we  off,  as  the  good  workman  doth. 
That  shapes  the  cloak  according  to  the  cloth ; 
And  to  the  primal  love  our  ken  shall  rise ; 
That  thou  mayst  penetrate  the  brightness,  far 
As  sight  can  bear  thee.    Yet,  alas !   m  sooth 
Beating  thy  pennons,  thinking  to  advance,    [gain'd ; 
Thou  backward  fall'st.    Grace  then  must  first  be 


^  TU  aeer.}    St  John. 

s  LueU,]    See  Hell,  Canto  ii.  97,  and  Purgatory,  ix.  50 


586  THE  VISION, 

Her  grace,  wlmse  might  cun  help  thee.     Thou  I 

Seek  her:  and,  with  affection,  wliile 
Attend,  and  yield  me  all  Itiy  heart." 
And  ihoB  the  s^otly  oriaoD  began. 


CANTO    XXXIIL 


iven  him  la  CDnlQIuplllle  Ibe  WfbU 
ilTtWhichia  nccotdlMtij  frvtlea-,  and  Db 
'  prafs  ID  Gnd  ftii  abillly  to  ibmr  Ibnb  at 
eeleoUd  glui;  In  lUi  nill1ii«t.    Lully.  bt  _ 
B  (Kuiine  of  Ibe  freii  mruety;  IbeTrinlv, 

"  O  viBaiN  mother,'  daughter  of  thy  San ; 
Created  beings  all  in  lawiineis 
Suipassing,  as  in  height  above  them  all ; 
Term  hy  the  eternal  counael  preordaia'd ; 
Ennoblec  of  thy  nature,  so  advanced 
In  thee,  that  its  great  Maker  did  col  « 


7-35.  PARADISE,  Canto  XXXIH.  667 

To  make  himself  his  own  creation ;' 

For  in  thy  womb  rekindling  shone  the  love 

Reveal'd,  whose  genial  influence  makes  now 

Tliis  flower  to  germin  in  eternal  peace : 

Here  thou  to  us,  of  charity  and  love. 

Art,  as  the  noonday  torch ;  and  art,  beneath. 

To  mortal  men,  of  hope  a  living  spring. 

So  mighty  art  thou,  lady,  and  so  great. 

That  he,  who  grace  desireth,  and  comes  not 

To  thee  for  aidance,  fain  would  have  desire' 

Fly  without  wings.     Not  only  him,  who  asks, 

Thy  bounty  succors ;  but  doth  freely  oft 

Forerun  the  asking.    Whatsoe'er  may  be 

Of  excellence  in  creature,  pity  mild. 

Relenting  mercy,  large  munificence. 

Are  all  combined  in  thee.     Here  kneeleth  one. 

Who  of  all  spirits  hath  reviewed  the  state, 

From  the  world's  lowest  gap  unto  this  height. 

Suppliant  to  thee  he  kneels,  imploring  grace 

For  virtue  yet  more  high,  to  lift  his  ken 

Toward  the  bliss  supreme.     And  I,  who  ne'er 

Coveted  sight,  more  fondly,  for  myself. 

Than  now  for  him,  my  prayers  to  thee  prefer, 

(And  pray  they  be  not  scant,)  that  thou  wouldst  drive 

Each  cloud  of  his  mortality  away,  [joy 

Through  thine  own  prayers,^  that  on  the  sovereign 

Unveil'd  he  gaze.     This  yet,  I  pray  thee.  Queen, 

Who  canst  do  what  thou  wilt ;  that  in  him  thou 

Wouldst,  after  all  he  hath  beheld,  preserve 

1  T\)  make  himself  his  own  creation."] 
Non  si  sdegnb  eft  farsi  sua  fattura. 
I  had  translated  this  line, 

Himself  in  his  own  work  enclosed  to  dwell, 

and  have  corrected  it  at  the  suggestion  of  my  friend,  the 
Rev.  William  Digby,  who  points  out  a  parallel  passage  in 
Bishop  Hoplcins,  on  the  Lord's  Prayer.  Ed.  1692,  p.  190.  "  In 
Him  omnipotence  became  weaic ;  eternity,  mortal ;  inno- 
cence itself,  guilty ;  God,  man ;  the  creator,  a  creature ;  the 
malcer  of  all,  his  own  workmanship." 
a  Desire.] 

Lo  his  desire  woll  flie  withouten  winges. 

Chaucer,  Troilus  and  0-es»eide,  lib.  iii. 
Che  'I  dcsiderio  sempre  move  Tale 
Dietro  all*  oggetto  della  mente  appreso. 

I>)-ezzi,  II  Quadrir,  lib.  Iii.  cap.  3. 
*  Through  thine  ovm  prayers.]    Here  again  I  am  indebted 
to  Mr.  Digby  for  noticing  the  omission  of  "  co'  prieghi  taoi" 
in  my  former  translation  of  the  passage  which  stood  thus : 
That  on  the  sovereign  pleasure  he  may  gaze. 
This  also  I  entreat  of  thee,  O  queen. 


3Sa  TIIE  VISION.  36-77. 

AffsDlion  sDimd,  and  htunan  psHions  quell. 
Lo!  wliera,  with  Beatrice,  msiiy  a  ttiol  [auil." 

btietch  their  claip'd  hands,  in  furlhersnce  of  m7 
The  eyes,  that  beavuii  witli  love  Had  awe  reganb, 
Fii'd  on  the  Builor,  wilDMs'd,  hon-  bmtga 
She  looki  on  pioua  prayarB :  then  fasten  d  they 
On  the  everlaating  light,  whefein  no  eye 
Of  creature,  as  may  well  be  thooght,  so  far 
Con  travel  inward.     I,  meanwhile,  who  dlvw 
Near  lo  the  limit,  wbero  oil  wishes  end, 
The  ardor  of  my  wish  (for  so  behooved) 
Ended  within  me.     Beckoning  amiled  Ihe  tage. 
That  1  shoidd  look  aloft ;  but,  ere  he  bade,   , 
Already  of  myself  aloft  I  lonk'd ; 
For  visual  strength,  refilling  more  and  more. 
Bare  me  <UId  the  ray  authenticel 
Of  sovereign  Ught,     Thenceforward,  what  I  saw, 
Was  not  for  words  to  apeak,  nor  memory's  sslf 
To  stand  against  such  ontrage  on  her  eltil). 

As  one,  who  &om  a  dream  awakenM,  strcdgbt, 
All  he  hath  seen  forgets ;  yet  still  relaina 
ItnpreBsion  of  the  feeling  in  his  dream ; 
E'en  such  am  I :  for  all  the  vision  dies, 
As  'twero,  away ;  and  yet  the  sense  of  snral, 
That  sprang  from  it,  still  trickiu  in  my  heart 
Thus  in  the  sun-thaw  is  the  snow  naseal'd ; 
Thus  in  the  winds  on  Sitting  leaves  was  lost 
The  Sibyl's  sentence.'     O  eternal  beam  1         [srar?> 
(WliDse  height  what  reach  of  mortal  thanght  oaf 
Yield  me  oguu  some  little  particle 
Of  what  thou  (hen  appearedst ;  give  luy  tODgm 
Power,  but  to  leave  one  spsikle  of  tiiy,  glory. 

Thy  triumph  wholly,  if  thou  walieu  aught 
Of  memory  in  me,  and  endure  to  hear 
The  record  somid  In  this  unequal  strStn. 

Such  keeaneHs"  from  the  living  ray  I  met, 
That,  if  mine  eyes  bad  tum'd  away,  methiaks, 
I  hud  been  lost ;  but,  so  enibolden'di  on 


.L-Xm.im. 


TO-JOt  PARADISE,  Cuno  XXXIIL  HQ 

Boldaesa  to  Hx  so  fiaraestlv  my  ken 

On  the  ■cverianling  Fplendor,  tliat  I  logk'd. 

While  Bighl  was  utifionBumed  ,  and,  lo  that  depth. 

Saw  ui  one  rolume  cliuip'd  of  lave,  tvbate'er 

Theaniveree  unfulda:  all  prop* nies" 

Of  substance  uod  of  accident,  licheld, 

Componaded.  yet  one  individual  lig-bt 

The  'whuie.     And  of  auch  bond  melhioks  I  MW 

The  miiversal  form    foi  that  whrae'er 

I  do  but  apEak  of  It,  my  soul  dilates 

Bsyond  )ier  proper  Belf,  and,  till  I  speak, 

Ono  niDmeut*  seetiui  a  longer  lethargy, 

Than  fi»o -and- twenty  ages  had  appew'd 

To  Ihat  Emprize,  thai  firel  mnde  Neptune  wonder 

At  Argo's  shadaw^  darkening  on  his  flood. 

With  filed  h-eed,  suspense  and  motionlpaB, 
"WonderinfT  I  gazed  ;  and  odniinition  Hlill 
Was  kindled  us  I  gazed.     It  inay  not  be. 
That  one,  who  looks  upon  (bal  light,  can  turn 
Tn  other  object,  willingly,  his  new. 
For  el]  the  good,  that  will  may  covet,  tbere 
I>  BUtnm'd ;  and  all,  eleewheia  delvctive  found. 
Complete.     My  tongue  shall  utter  now,  no  mors 
E'en  what  remembiBDCe  ket^ps,  tlinncouldthe  babe'a. 
That  yet  is  molsteii'd  at  hu>  mother's  breast. 
Not  that  the  semblance  of  the  living  light 
Was  tlianged  (that  evdl  as  at  first  remaui'd) 

1  jIU  jmvn-tiu.]    Thus  in  U»  FumBDldei  or  Plslo.  li  li 


iHTcFf  prapivieia  new  Inlerpreladoii  of  tliLi  dUBcall  pasi 
and  would  undentand  onr  anttur  lo  say  that  '*  one  mtn 
4lapw<l  aftnlhe  vlriDD,  oicuiotied  ■  Bmlei  farxemUnei 


I  venLDHam  pruflctdlt  oqocr 
'Nere!!le>ai^lraiite>. 


r 


570 


THE  VISION. 


lOS-lS 


But  thai  my  vision  qukkuning,  in  that  sole 
Appeurance,  Mill  new  miracleB  dracried, 
Aad  tiHl'd  me  with  tlie  chimge.     In  lliat  &bygs 
Of  radiance,  olcsT  aitd  lofty,  seemed,  rnetbough 
Throe  orba  of  triple  hue,  clipp'd  in  one  bonnd :' 
And,  from  another,  one  reflected  aeem'd, 
Ab  rainbow  ta  from  rainbow :  and  the  third 
Seera'd  fire,  breathed  eqnally  Stom  both.     O  spceoli 
Uuw  feeble  atid  how  faint  art  thou,  to  gire 
Conception  birth.     Yet  this  to  whnt  I  saw 
la  leas  than  liltLe.'     O  eternal  light ! 
Sole  in  thyself  Ihat  dwell'et;  and  of  thy«elf 
Sole  understood,  past,  present,  or  to  come ; 
Thou  Bmiledil.^  on  that  circling,'  which  in  Ihes 
Seem'd  as  [eS.ected  splendor,  while  I  mused; 
For  I  therein,  melhougbt,  in  its  ovm  hue 
Beheld  our  image  painted :  steadfastly 
I  therefore  ponS  upon  the  view.     As  one, 
Who  versed  in  geometric  lore,  would  fain 
Measure  the  chela ;  and.  (houeh  pondering  lon^ 
And  deeply,  that  begtuaing,  which  be  neeA, 
Finds  not :  e'en  such  was  I,  intent  to  soan 
The  novel  wonder,  and  truce  out  the  farm. 
How  to  (he  circle  fitted,  and  therein 
How  placed  :  but  the  flight  was  not  for  my  winfi 
Had  not  a  Hash  darted  athwart  my  mind. 
And,  in  the  spleen ,  unfolded  what  il  aon^t. 

Here  vigor  fail'ri  the  towering  fantasy ; 
But  yel  the  will  roli'd  onward,  like  a  wheal 
In  even  motion,  hy  the  love  impell'd. 
Thai  movea  lbs  sun  in  heaven  and  all  Ihe  Btan. 


INDEX  OF  PROPER  NAMES, 


EITHER   EXPRE88LT   MENTIONED,   OR   SUPPOSED   TO 
REFBRRBD   TO,   IN   THE   PRECEDING   POEM. 


Abba^liato,  H.  zxix.  139. 
Abbati,  Par.  xvi.  109. 
Abbati  degli,    Bocca.    H. 

xxxii.  105. 
Abbati  degli,  Buoso.  H.  xxv. 

131. 
Abel,  H.  iv.  53. 
Abraham,  H.  iy.  55. 
Absalom,  H.  xxviii.  133. 
Abydos,  Purg.  xxviii.  74. 
Accorso,  H.  xv.  110. 
Acconso  d',  Francesco,  H. 

XV.  111. 
Achan,  Purg.  xx.  107. 
Acheron,   H.   iii.  73;  xiv. 

111.    Purg.  ii.  100. 
Achilles,  H.  v.  65 ;  xii.  68 ; 

xxvi.  63;  xxxi.  4.    Purg. 

ix.  33  L  xxi.  93. 
Acone,  Par.  xvi.  64. 
Acquacheta,  H.  xvi.  97. 
Acquasparta,  Par.  xii.  115. 
Acre,  H.  xxvii.  84. 
Adam,  H.  iii.  107 ;  iv.  53. 

Purg.  ix.  9 ;  xi.  45  ;^  xxix. 

84;  xxxii.  37;  xxxiii.  63. 

Par.  vii.  33;  xui.  34,  77; 

xxvi.  83,  100;  xxxii.  108, 

1'23. 
Adamo  of  Brescia,  H.  xxx. 

GU,  103. 
Adice,  H.  xii.  4.    Purg.  xvi. 

117.    Par.  ix.  44. 
Adimari,  Par.  xvi.  113. 
Adrian  V.,  Purg.  xix.  97. 
Adriatic,  Par.  xxi.  114. 
iEgina,  H.  xxix.  58. 
^neas,  H.  ii.  34;  iv.  119; 

xxvi.  63,  93.    Purg.  xviii. 

135;  xxi.  98.    Par.  vi.  3; 

XV.  36. 
./Esop,  H.  xxiii.  5. 
iEthiop,    Purg.    xxvi.    18. 

Par.  xix.  108. 


AfricanuB.    See  Scipio. 
Agamemnon.  Par.  v.  69. 
Agapete  I.,  Par.  vi.  16. 
Agatho.  Purg.  xxii.  105. 
Aghinulfo  of  Romena,  H. 

xxx.  76. 
Aglauros,  Purg.  xiv.  143. 
Agnello.      See    Brunelles- 

chi. 
Agobbio,  Purg.  xi.  80. 
Agobbio  d',  Oderigi,  Purg. 

xi.  79. 
Agostino,  Par.  xii.  183. 
Aguf^lione  d',  Baldo,  Par. 

XVI.  54. 
Ahasuerus,  Purg.  xvii.  98. 
Ahitophel,  H.  xxviii.  133. 
Alagia,  Purg.  xix.  141. 
Alagna,  Purg.  xx.  86.    Par. 

xxx.  145. 
Alardo,  H.  xxviii.  17. 
Alba,  Par.  vi.  38. 
Alberichi,  Par.  xvi.  87. 
Alberigo.    See  Manflredi. 
Albero  of  Sienna,  H.  xxix. 

105. 
Albert  I.,  Purg.  vi.  98.  Par. 

xix.  114. 
Alberti  degli,  Alberto,  H. 

xxxii.  55. 
Alberti   degli,   Alessandio, 

H.  xxxii.  53. 
Alberti  degli,  Napoleone,  H. 

xxxii.  53. 
Altverto,  Abbot  of  San  Zeno, 

Ptirg.  xviii.  118. 
Albertus  Magnus,  Par.  x. 

95. 
Alcides,  H.  xxv.  30;  xxxi. 

133. 
AlcmsBon,    Purg.    xii.   46. 

Par,  iv.  100. 
Aktobrandesco,  Guf^^mo, 

Purg.  xi.  59. 


AUobnuutesco,      Omberto, 

Putg.  jri.  M,  07, 
AUobrandi,  Tegghioio,  H. 

Ak^lo/H-ii-M, 
AlHwrndio  of  SoineDB,  U. 


AWuidet  Ihs   Gnat.    IL 

AJeiaodria,  l^u-g.  vii.  1 

Alichino,  H.  ixi.  11B;  i 

AUghieri,  sou  of  Caccia 

AI^'^H.'^'?SS.^■ 
Alpine,     l^irg.     liv. 

xxxiii.  no.    Par.  vi,i-. 
Alouio  UL,  Idng  of    Ara- 

pui,  Porg.  \iL  116. 
Albnio  X.  of  ^iialD,  Par. 

Alvo^a,  Par.  li.  B8. 

Amala,  Purg.  xvii.  3*. 
Amidei,  Par.  xvi.  135. 
Amiihtanug,  H.  XI.  31.  Pii. 

AmphioQ,  H.  luii.  11. 
Amyclas.  Par.  li.  63. 
Auacreon,  Purg.  iiii.  l«a. 

Sapptura, 


Anastagio,  Purg,  i 


Aaohieeg,  d.i.K;  iv.  11 
iiFi.  Bt.  Par.  IV.  S 
ax.  lis. 

Andes,  Purg.  iriii.  84. 

Andren  da  rjant',  GlacoiT 

Angelo.    KoB  Cagnano. 

"■   '    ■■■']1M. 
i.  13S. 


Annaa,  li.  x. 
•     olin.  Par. 


Antatidrog,  Par.  vi.  89. 
Antenor,  Plug.  v.  7S. 

AnUgDnB.'Purg.uii.  108. 


Anthony,  Saint,  Par.  nii. 

Apennino,  H.  iri.  »6;  n. 

to.     Purg.T.  M;  uj.ST. 

Par,  Hi.  9V. 
Apollo,  Purg.  »[.  lar.    Pat. 

Apulia,  H.  uviii.  7.    Sea 

PoujiIb, 
Apnlian,  H.  uriu,  IS. 
AquahDB,  H.  aiv.  9. 


i.  113. 


1,  Pai.x 


.  Pitrg.T.  M,  Ua. 

ArdBlaHL    SseOtdelaffi. 

Ardjnglii,r 

104;  XIX.  33.    Purg. 

Argenti,  'Filippo,    H. 

Argia,  pBix.  xxli.  109, 

Alfo.f'ar.' 

ArguB,  Purg.  iiii.  01 ;  ti£L 

li-    17; 


Ariadne,  Far.  > 
Atiea,  Purg.  »iii 


83.    Purg,  T.  133;  xSt.SK. 

Anigo.    See  Fibnti. 
Arripuoci,  Par,  xri,  ICW. 


BiabsnL,  Pui«. 
BnncB.  Sw  1 
BniKli..  H.  xit 
Brenniia.  Par.  ■ 


INDEX. 

Ca^jiaiioi 


BremB,H.»v.B.  Pw.itSe.  I 
IbHcia,  H.  II. 
Bcwcian,  U.  (i 
BreUiaoro,  Pmi 


BneBlB,'90ii  of  Coonl  Ci 
lino  de'  GJioranlcaclii,  1 

Bnw  de  ja,  Feler,  Fuig. 


TItunetlo.    See  LAtini. 
BmliH,  jDDiDa,  the  expeller 

olTBmuia,  F   ' 

BratiiB,  Mucu 


Buon&coM,  PinaiQDiita,  H. 

Buouuggiuatn      Urbiciani, 
Purg.  iiiT.  SO,  twice. 

Buondelmouti,  ^r.  xri.  — . 
Buoadelmoati  de',  Buoudel- 

monle,  Psr.  ivi.  139 
Buoso.    See  Donoli. 


CaciH,  H.  I 
Cadmus,  a 

CiBCiliiui,  Pt 


130.   Puig.iviii.MjMvi. 
Cajniano,  the  river,  Psr. 


Callwli   da,  Bioiec),  Paig. 

liv.  Bl,  U. 
Calcabnua,   H.  xn.   Ul; 

iiii.  133. 

CalcliBi,  H.  XX.  IDS. 

Calraoci,  Par.  xri.  IM. 

CalJaiogB,  Pkt.  lii.  4 

Calliope,  Purg.  i.  a. 

.    CaUi«o,  .= ■ 

.    CalliituB... 

Camaldoli,  r  _ 

CHmiccioiie,    Alberta  i    iV 

Paui,  H.  naL  68. 
CainUlB,U.i.l<M;iv.lW. 
" — '  no  da,  Giteniido,  Pwg. 

10  Ja,  ^icxaldo,  1^. 

_.  16. 
CunooJca,  H.  XX.  41. 
CampBiaiBlicD,  FurK.  xL  M. 
OampaldiDa,  Purg.  v.  W. 
Campi,  Par.  xvL  U. 
Canaveae,  Pofe.  rii.  Ub. 
Cancel]  ieri  de'.FMaeei*,  B, 

CaneariPar. 

,    Capaneaa,  H.  xiv.  M. 

Cgpet,  Uuch,  Pmst  ik-w. 
..   Capocchio,   ij.  xaiS.    IMi 

Capoiuacca,  Par.  liv.  IV, 

" ILiiiiii.M. 

I.  Purg.  li.  5S.  Par. 

;  Caproni,  H.  ni.  Iff, 

CapuletB.  Porg.  »i.  107. 
.  Cariesoda,  H.  xixi.  IM, 
.  CarliiiD.    SeePazli. 

Carpigiia  di,  Guida  j  dajto- 
leftltra,  Purg,  xhf.  UOt 

CBirara,  H.  xx.  -H. 

Caaalo.lW.  lii.  lis. 

Cawilodi,  H.  a.  M. 

CBselia,  Purg.  iL  SB. 


loa. 


INDEX. 


575 


Casentino,  H.  xxx.  04.  Purg. 

V.  92 ;  xiv.  45. 
CaBsero  del,  Giacopo,  Purg. 

V.  73. 
Caaserodel,  Goido,  H.  xxviii. 

73. 
Caasino,  Par.  xxii.  36. 
Cassius,  H.  xxxiv.  62.    Par. 

vi.  76. 
Castello  da,  Guido,  Purg. 

xvi.  127. 
Castile,  Par.  xil.  49. 
Castrocaro,  Purs.  xiv.  118. 
Catalauo.    See  Malavolti. 
Catalonia.  Par.  viii.  83. 
Catilini,  Far.  xvi.  86. 
Cato,  H.  iv.  124;  xiv.  15. 

Purg.  i.  31 ;  ii.  113. 
Catria,  Par.  xxi.  99. 
Cattolica,  H.  xxviii.  77. 
Cavalcante,  Francesco  Gu- 

ercio,  H.  xxv.  142. 
Cavalcanti,  H.  xxx.  33. 
Cavalcanti  de',  Cavalcante, 

H.  X.  52. 
Cavalcanti,  Guido,  H.  x.  62. 

Purg.  xi.  96. 
Cecina,  H.  xiii.  10. 
CelestineV.,  H.  iii.  56 ;  xxvii. 

101. 
Centaurs,  H.    xii.  53,  103, 

116,  128;  xxv.  17.    Purg. 

xxiv.  120. 
Ceperano.  H.  xxviii.  14. 
Cephas,  Par.  xxi.  118. 
Cerbaia    da.  Count    Orso, 

Purg.  vi.  20. 
Cerberus,  H.  vi.  12,  22,  31 ; 

ix.  97. 
Cerchi,  Par.  xvi.  63. 
Ceres.  Purg.  xxviii.  52. 
Certaldo,  Par.  xvi.  48. 
Cervia,  H.  xxvii.  40. 
Cesena,  H.  xxvii.  50. 
Ceuta,  H.  xxvi.  109. 
Charlemain,   H.  xxxi.    15. 

Par.  vi.  98 :  xviii.  39. 
Charles  I.  of  Aiyou,  king  of 

Naples,  H.  xix.  103.  Pur§. 

v.  69;  vii.  114,  125;   xi. 

137 ;  XX.  59, 65.    Par.  viii. 

77. 
Charles  11.^  king  of  Naples, 

Purg.  vii.  125.    Par.  xix. 

125 ;  XX.  58. 
Charles  of  Lorraine,  Purg. 

XX.  52. 
Charles  Martel,   Par.  viii. 

50;ix.  1. 


Charles  of  Valois,  H.  vi.  69. 

Purg.    XX.    69.     Par.   vi. 

110. 
Charon.  H.  iii.  89, 101, 119. 
Charybdis,  H.  vii.  22. 
Chebar,  Purg.  xxix.  97. 
Chiana,  Par.  xiii.  21. 
Chiaramontesi,    Par.    xvi 

103. 
Chiarentana,  H.  xv.  10. 
Chiascid,  Par.  xi.  40. 
Chiassi,  Purg.  xxviii.  20, 
Chiaveri,  Purg.  xix.  99. 
Chiron,  H.  xii.  62,  69,  74,  95. 

Purg.  ix.  34. 
Chiusi,  Par.  xvi.  74. 
Christ,  Jesus,  H.  xxxiv.  110. 

Purg.  XX.  86 ;  xxi.  6 ;  xxiii. 

67;  xxvi.  121 ;  xxxii.  101. 

Pai.  vi.  15;  ix.  117;  xi. 

66,  99  ;  xii.  35,  66,  67,  68 ; 

xiv.  96,  98,  101 ;  xvii.  50 ; 

xix.  68,  10-2,    105    twice; 

XX.  42 ;  xxiu.  20,  71 ;  xxv. 

35;  xxvii.  36;  xxix.  103, 

115;  xxxi.  3,  99;   xxxii. 

17,  19,  22,  73,  75,  111. 
Christians,    H.    xxvii.    84. 

Purg.  X.  110 ;  xxii.  74,  90. 

P£u:.  V.  74;  XV.  128;  xix. 

108  J  XX.  96 ;  xxiv.  53, 105  ; 

xxvii.  44. 
Chrysostom,  Saint,  Par.  xii. 

128. 
Ciacco,  H.  vi.  52.  58. 
Ciamoolo,  H.  xxii.  47. 
Cianfa.    See  Donati. 
Cianghella,  Par.  xv.  120. 
Cieldauro,  Par.  x.  124. 
Cimabue,  Purg.  xi.  93. 
Cincinnatus.  See  Quintius. 
Circe,  H.  xxvi.  90.    Purg. 

xiv.  45. 
Ciriatto,  H.  xxi.  120;  xxii. 

54. 
Clare,  Saint,  Par.  iii.  99. 
Clement  IV.,  Purg.  iii.  122. 
Clement  V.,   H.    xix.   86. 

Purg.   xxxii.    155.     Par. 

xvii.  80;  xxvii.  53;  xxx. 

141. 
Clemenza,  Par.  ix.  2. 
Cleopatra,  H.  v.  62.     Par. 

vi.  79. 
Cletus.  Par.  xxvii.  37. 
Clio.  Purg.  xxii.  58. 
Clotho,  Purg.  xxi.  28. 
Cl3rmene,  Par.  xvii.  1. 
I  Coan,  Purg.  xxix.  133. 


CoRaniB,    tjnpteB, 

QNiatauce. 
CoBtanztt.  Qneen,  Purg,  iii. 

lis,  138:  *ii.  130, 
CrtuHu,  Purg.  xx.  ill. 


i.,un4uu,  rar.  vi,  ju. 

Curio,  H.ixyili.BT, 
Cynlliin,  Purg,  nix. ' 
Cyjjnau,  II,  uniii.  TS 

CyirtiffiBn,  Par,  i.  3S. 
CyruB,  Purg.  xii.  SI. 
Cythwea,  Purg.  xx7 


DamiaoD,  Pietio.  Pur.  i 
Dsmlita,  H.  xiv.  lUO, 


UioDyHin    the  Aieopanlc, 

Par.  X.  US;  xCTfii.  111. 
Dionyaius,  kiug  nf  Rntncali 

DiDnyeiua  the  tyrant,  H.  liL 

moKOiuIee,  H.  iv.  130. 
Ka,  H.  Tiii.  oe ;  n.  6B;  dl 


Buoso,  U.  xxr.  Ul ; 


Donati,  Ubertino,  Par.  i 

DoaalUB.Par.  xii.  ISO. 
Doha,  Branca,  H.  xx) 

Douay,  p'nrg.  ix.  <«. 


INDEX. 


5T7 


Daca  del,  Guido;  da  Bret- 
tinoro.  l*urg.  xiv.  83. 

Duera  da,  Buoso,  H.  xxxii. 
113. 

Dyirachium,  Par.  vi.  66. 

Ebro,  in  Italy,  Par.  ix.  85. 
Ebro,  in  Spain,  Purg.  xxvii. 

4. 
Echo,  Par.  xii.  12. 
Edwaid  I.,  king  of  England, 

Purg.  vii.  133.    Par.  xix. 

121. 
Egidius,  Par.  xi.  7G. 
Egypt,  Purg.  ii.  45.     Par. 

XXV.  59. 
Eleanor,  wife  of  Edward  I. 

of  England,  Par.  vi.  135. 
Elbe,  Purg.  vii.  96,  twice. 
Electra,  H.  iv.  117.        v 
El,  Par.  xxvi.  133. 
Ell,  Purg.  xxiii.  69.     Par. 

xxvi.  134. 
Elias,  Purg.  xxxii.  79. 
Eljjah,  H.  xxvi.  37. 
Eliseo,  Par.  xv.  129. 
Elisha,  H.  xxvi.  35. 
Elsa^  Purg.  xxxiii.  67. 
Elysian,  Par.  xv.  25. 
Ema,  Par.  xvi.  142. 
Empedocles,  H.  iv.  134. 
England,  Purg.  vii.  129. 
fbglish.  Par.  xix.  121. 
Eolus,  Purg.  xxviii.  21. 
Ephialtes,  H.  xxxi.  85, 99. 
Epicurus,  II.  X.  15. 
Epirot,  Par.  vi.  44. 
Ejictho,  H.  ix.  24. 
Eriphyle,  Purg.  xii.  46.  Par. 

iv.  102. 
Erisicthon,  Purg.  xxiii.  23. 
Erynnis,  H.  ix.  46. 
Eiythrsean,  H.  xxiv.  88. 
Esau,  Par.  viii.  136. 
Eate,  Purg.  v.  77. 
Este  da,  Azzo,  Purg.  v.  77. 
Este  da,  Obizzo,  H.  xii.  Ill ; 

xviii.  56. 
Esther,  Purg.  xvii.  29. 
Eteocles,  H.  xxvi.  55.  Purg. 

xxii.  57. 
Ethiopia,  H.  xxiv.  87. 
Euclid,  II.  iv.  139. 
Eve,  Purg.  viii.  98 ;  xii.  65 ; 

xxiv.  116.    Par.  xiii.  35; 

xxxii.  3. 
Eunoe,   Purg.  xxviii.    137; 

xxxiii.  126. 
Eupbratee,  Purg,  xxxiii.  112. 


Euripides,  Purg.  xxii.  105. 
Euryalus,  H.  i.  105. 
Eurypilus.  H.  xx.  ill. 
Europa,  Par.  xxvii.  78. 
Europe,  Purg.  viii.  121.  Par. 

vi.  6 ;  xii.  44. 
Eurus,  Par.  viii.  71. 
Ezekiel,  Purg.  xxix.  96. 

Fabii,  Par.  vi.  48. 
Fabricius,  Purg.  xx.  25. 
Faenza,  H.  xxvii.  46 ;  xxxii. 

120.    Purg.  xiv.  103. 
Falterona,  mountain,  Purg. 

xiv.  19. 
Falterona,  valley,  H.  xxxii. 

53. 
Famagoeta,  Par.  xix.  143. 
Fano,  H.  xxviii.  72.    Purg. 

V.  70. 
Fantolini,  Purg.  xiv.  125. 
Farfarello,  H.  xxi.  121 ;  xxii. 

93. 
Fariuata.    See  Uberti. 
Felice  Guzman,  Par.  xii.  73. 
Feltro,  H.  i.  102.    Par.  ix. 

50. 
Ferdinand   IV.    of   Spain, 

Par.  xix.  122. 
Ferrara,  Par.  ix.  54;    xv. 

130. 
Fesole,  H.  xv.  62,  73.    Par. 

vi.  54;  XV.  119 ;  xvi.  121. 
Fieschi,  Purg.  xix.  97. 
Fifanti  degli,  Arrigo,  H.  vi. 

81. 
Fighine,  Par.  xvi.  48. 
Fifippeschi,  Purg.  vi.  108. 
Filippi,  Par.  xvi.  86. 
Filippo.    See  Argenti. 
Flaccus,  H.  iv.  84. 
Flemings,  H.  xv.  4. 
Florence,  H.  x.  91 ;  xvi.  73 ; 

xxiv.  143 ;  xxvi.  1.    Purg. 

vi.  129;  xi.  114;  xii.  96; 

xiv.  53  ;  XX.  74  ;  xxiii.  94« 

Par.  XV.  92;  xvi.  23,  83, 

145,  147;  xvii.  48;  xxiz« 

109 ;  XXXI.  35. 
Florentine^  H.  viii.  60 ;  xvii. 

67;  xxxiii.  12.    Par.  xvi. 

59,  85. 
Focaccia.     See  Cancellieri. 
Focara,  H.  xxviii.  85. 
Folco,  Par.  ix.  90. 
Forese,  Purg.  xxiii.  44,  70; 

xxiv.  72. 
Forli,  H.  xvi.  99 ;  zxviL  41. 


37 


I,  BoTDanlin,  Puis. 


Traacraca.,  d  aughler  of  Gui 
<lu  NoYcUo  ds  Polenta 
H,  V.  113. 

Francis  .Saint,  H.  xxvii.  as. 

Franco  of  Bologua,  Piae. 
nedendc  L,  Etapenx,  Porg. 
Frederick  ri.,  Emperor,  U. 
Pnig.'ivi.  1*0.'  Pbi.  iii. 
Frederick  II.,  king  of : 


Par.  ) 


Ffene 


I,  H.M 


GadeB,  Ptti.  mil.  TA. 
GaMa,  Par.  viii.  M. 
Gaia,  Pore.  irt.  H4. 
GalenoBiJl.  iv.  140. 
Galicia,Par.  xxv.  SO. 
GaliniD,  Par.  xvi.  OS. 
Gslli,  Par.xvi.  IU9. 
Gallia,  Purg.  yii.  los. 
Gallura,  U.  uii.  HI.    Pi 

Gdlumo'.  Par.  xvi.  51. 
GanpUon,  H.  mitiL  US. 
Ganges,  Pu^,  ii,  S ;  Ki 

5.  Tar.  xi.  ia. 
Gatiymeile,  Pum,  is,  flj. 
GuJa,  U.  XX,  es. 


Gascony,  Pure,  d 
Gaville,  ll.  ixv.  1- 
GsnoBii,  Par.  ix.  B' 
Geaoeae,  H.  sxxiii 
Gvutilce,  Par.  xx.  I 
Oemucca,  Purg.i: 
Geri.    Nee  Balfo, 


Gbeat,  H.  iv.  5.     Plug.  a. 
Gliecardnchi  de^,  ITfatui' 


Coant,  U.  xxxiii.  U,  es. 
■- '-     See" — -- 

B,Pa 

Tbcc 


Gheranlo.  See  CaminD. 
Ghibellin^  Par,  vi.  107. 
Ghino  di  Tncco,  Purg. 

Glii«dB.H. 


See  Andrea  da, 

Gasyio.    See  Kaaticuooi. 
Giaaflgliiuai,  H.nii.  3T. 
GibralCar,  H.  uvL  100. 
Gideon,  PiuB-  nir.  l«. 
Gilboa,  Pmg.  lii.  37. 
GioUo,  Pare.  ^.  OS. 
Giavaaaa,  mothitr  of  Saint 

Doniinic,  Par.  «u.  71. 
GiovannB,  wife  Ot    Bwoh 

conLe     ila      MautefaUia, 

Pure.  T,  BB. 
Giovanna,  wife  at  Biocaido 

da  Camina,  Purg.  viiii  TI. 
Giuda,  Par.  xvi.  131. 
Giulisno,  K..  IL  xxxiii.  9t, 
Giaochi,  Par.  xri.  M 
Glaiictu,  Par.  i.  H. 
Gudtrey  of  B— '- — 


Grvcia,  H.  u.  lOT.     Par. 

Gralliaeaiie.   H.  xxi.  130: 

GraUan,  Par.  x.  101. 
Greoi,  ^BT.  KVi.  87. 
GrEcian.  Pnrg.  xjiii.  l«0, 
a^ek,  Pnrg.  iiii.  ISO. 
Greeks,  H.  jovi,  70.    Pi 

Gregori  the  Great,  Pnri 
"■     Par,  II.  lUi  ix 

iao  d'ArezsD,  H.  x 


GualterMli,  Far.  xvi.  119 
Guelpha,  Par.  vi.  110. 
GaeBeyer,  Par.  iri,  1$. 


iH 


8- 


INDEX. 


d70 


Guido.  Se«  Cavalcanti, 
Cassero.  Castello,  Duca, 
Guinicelli,  Novello,  Prata. 

Guido,  Conte,  Par.  xvi.  95. 

Guido  of  Roraena,  H.  xxx. 
76. 

Guidoguerra,  H.  xvi.  38. 

Guinicelli,  Guido,  Purg.  xi. 
96;  XXVI.  83. 

Gniscard,  Robert,  H.  xxviii. 
12.    Par.  xviii.  44. 

Guittone  d'Arezzo,  Purg. 
xxiv.  56;  xxvi.  118. 

Haman,  Pure.  xvii.  26. 
Hannibal,    H.    xxxi.    107. 

Par.  vi.  51. 
Haquin,  Par.  xix.  136. 
Hautefort,  H.  xxix.  28. 
Hebrews,  Purg.  xxiv.  123. 

Par.  xxxii.  14. 
Hector,  H.  iv.  118.    Par.  vi. 

71. 
Hecuba,  H.  xxx.  16. 
Helen,  H.  v.  63. 
Heiice,  Par.  xxxi.  29. 
Helicon,  Pure.  xxix.  38. 
Heliodorus,  Purg.  xx.  111. 
Hellespont,  Purg.  xxviii.  70. 
Henry,  nephew  of    Henry 

HI.  of  England,  H.  xii. 

119. 
Henry  VI.,  Emperor,  Par. 

iii.  122. 
Henry  VII.,  Emperor,  Purg. 

vi.  103.  Par.  xvii.  80 ;  xxx. 

135. 
Henry  11.^  king  of  England, 

H.  xxviii.  131. 
Heitfy  n.,  king  of  Cyprus, 

Par.  xix.  144. 
Henry  of    Navarre,   Purg. 

vii.  105. 
Henry  III.,  king  of  Eng- 
land, Purg.  vii.  131. 
Heraclitus,  H.  iv.  134. 
Hercules,  H.  xxvi.  106.  Par. 

ix.  98. 
Hesperian,  Purg.  xxvii.  4. 
Hezekiah,  Par.  xx.  44. 
Hippocrates,    H.    iv.    139. 

Pure.  xxix.  133. 
Hinpolytus,  Par.  xvii.  47. 
Holofemes,  Purg.  xii.  54. 
Homer,  II.  iv.  83.     Purg. 

xxii.  100. 
Houorius  IH.,  Par.  xi.  90. 
Horace.    See  Flaccus. 
HoratU,  Par.  yj.  39. 


Hungary,  Par.  viii.  68 ;  xix. 

138. 
Hugh.    See  Capet. 
Hugues.    See  Victor  Saint. 
Hypsipile,  H.  xviii.  90.  Pnig. 

xxii.  110. 
Hyperion,  Par.  xxii.  138. 

!  Jacob,  Par.  yiii.  136 ;  xxii. 

I     70. 

,  James  II.,  king  of  Aragon, 

Purg.  in.    113;   vii.    120. 

Par.  xix.  133. 
James,  king  of  Majorca  and 

Minorca,  Par.  xix.  133. 
James,   Saint;    the   elder. 

Par.  XXV.  20. 
January,  Par.  xxvii.  133. 
Janus,  Par.  vi.  83. 
Jarbas,  Purg.  xxxi.  69. 
Jason^   the    Argonaut,   H. 

xviii.  85.    Par.  ii.  19. 
Jason,  the  Jew,  H.  xix.  88. 
Ibaria,  H.  xxvi.  101. 
Icarus,  H.  xvii.  105.    Par. 

viii.  132. 
Ida,  H.  xiv.  93. 
Jepthah,  Par.  v.  64. 
Jerome,   Saint,  Par.  xxix. 

38. 
Jerusalem,  Purg.  xxiii.  26. 

Par.  xix.  125 ;  xxv.  59. 
Jesus.    See  Christ. 
Jews,  H.  xxiii.  126;  xxvii. 

83.    Par.  V.  81;  vu.  45; 

xxix.  108. 
Ilerda,  Purg.  xviii.  100. 
Iliou,  Purg.  xii.  57. 
Ilium,  H.  i.  71. 
Illuminato,  Par.  xii.  121. 
Imola,  H.  xxvii.  46. 
Importuni,  Par.  xvi.  133. 
Indian,     rurg.    xxvi.     18; 

xxxii.  41.    Par.  xxix.  108. 
Indus,  Par.  xix.  67. 
Infangato,  Par.  xvi.  122. 
Innocent  III.,  Par.  xi.  85. 
luo,  H.  xxx.  5. 
Interminei,  Alessio,  H.  xviii. 

120. 
Joachim,  Par.  xii.  131. 
Joanna,  Par.  xii.  74. 
Jocasta,  Purg.  xxii.  57. 
John  the  Baptist,  H.  xiii. 

145 ;  xxx.  73.    Purg.  xxii. 

148.     Par.  iv.  29 ;  xvi.  24, 

45 ;  xviii.  130 ;  xxxii.  26. 
John,  king  of  England,  H. 

xxviii.  1^. 


INDEX. 


581 


Lombardo,    Marco,    Purg. 

xvi.  46, 133. 
Lombarao.    See  Pietro. 
Lombardy.  H.    xxviii.    70. 

Purg.  XVI.  46,  117. 
Louis,  Pur^.  XX.  49. 
Lucan,  11.  iv.  85 ;  xxv.  85. 
Lucca,  H.  xxxiii.  30.   Purg. 

xxiv.  21,36. 
Lucia,  H.  ii.  97, 100.    Purg. 

ix.  51.    Par.  xxxii.  123. 
Lucifer,  H.  xxxi.  134 ;  xxxiv. 

82. 
Lucretia,  H.  iv.  124.    Par. 

vi.  41. 
Luke,  Purg.  xxi.  6;  xxix. 

131. 
Luni,  H.  XX.  44.    Par.  xvi. 

72. 
Lybia,  H.  xxiv.  83. 
Lybic,  Pure.  xxvi.  39. 
Lycurgus,  Purg.  xxvi.  87. 

Macarius,  Par.  xxii.  48. 
Maccabee,  Par.  xviii.  37. 
Maccabees,  H.  xix.  89. 
Machinardo.    See  Pagano. 
Macra,  Par.  ix.  86. 
Madiau,  Purg.  xxiv.  125. 
Maia,  Par.  xxii.  140. 
Malacoda,  H.  xxi.  74,  77. 
Malaspina,  Conrad,   Purg. 

viii.  65, 117. 
Malateetiuo.    See  Rimini. 
Malavolti  de',  Catalano,  II. 

xxiii.  105, 116. 
Malebolge,  H.  xviii.  2 ;  xxi. 

5:  xxiv.  37;  xxix.  39. 
Malta,  Par.  ix.  53. 
Manardi,  Arrigo,  Purg.  xiv. 

100. 
Manfredi,  Purg.  iii.  110. 
Manfredi  de',  Aiberigo,  H. 

xxxiii.  116,  152. 
Manfredi  de*,   Tribaldcllo, 

H.  xxxii.  119. 
Mangiadore,  Pietro,  Par.  xii. 

125. 
Manto,  II.  XX.  50. 
Mantua,  H.  ii.  59;  xx.  91. 

Purg.  vi.  72 ;  xviii.  84. 
Mantuan,  H.  i.  64.    Purg. 

vi.  74  ;  vii.  86. 
3Iarca  d'Aucona,  Purg.  v. 

67. 
Marcellus,  Purg.  vi.  127. 
Marcia,  H.  iv.  125.    Purg.  i. 

79,85. 
Marco.    See  Lombardo. 


Msu'cnuna,    II.    xxv.    18; 

xxix.  47.    Purg.  V.  132. 
Margaret,  wife  of  Louis  IX. 

of  Trance,  Purg.  vii.  129. 

Par.vi.  135. 
3Iarocco,  H.  xxvi.  102. 
Mars,  H.  xxiv.  144.    Purg. 

ii.   14 ;  xii.  27.    Par.  iv. 

64  ;  viii.  138 ;  xiv.  93 ;  xvi. 

45;  xxvii.  13. 
Marseilles,  Pur^.  xviii.  100. 
Marsjras.  Par.  i.  19. 
Martin,  Par.  xiii.  135. 
3Iartin  IV.,  Pur^.  xxiv.  23. 
Mary,  Purg.  xxiii.  26. 
Mary,   the   blessed  Virgin, 

Purg.  iii.  37;  v.  98;  viii. 

37 ;  XV.  87 ;  xviii.  98 ;  xxii. 

139 ;    xxxiii.  6.    Par.  iv. 

30;  xi.  67;  xiv.  33;  xv. 

125;    xxiii.  71,   109,    122, 

132 ;  xxv.  127 ;  xxxi.  124 ; 

xxxii.  3,  4, 95, 101 ;  xxxiii. 

1. 
Mary  of  Brabant,  Purg.  vi. 

24. 
Marzucco.  See  Scoruigiani. 
Mascheroni,      Sassol,      H. 

xxxii.  63. 
Matthias,  Saint,  II.  xix.  98. 
Matilda,  Purg.  xxviii.  41 ; 

xxxii.  82  ;  xxxiii.  119. 
3Iatteo,  Par.  xii.  111. 
Medea,  H.  xviii.  94. 
Medicina    da,    Piero,    H. 

xxviii.  69. 
3Iedusa,  H.  ix.  53. 
Megaera,  H.  ix.  47. 
Melchisidec,  Par.  viii.  130. 
Meleager,  Purg.  xxv.  22. 
Melissus,  Par.  xiii.  121. 
Menalippus,  II.  xxxii.  128. 
Mercabd,  H.  xxviii.  71. 
Mercury,  Par.  iv.  64. 
Metellus,  Purg.  ix.  130. 
3Iichael,    the    Archangel, 

Par.  iv.  48. 
Michel.    See  Zanche. 
Michol,  Purg.  x.  63,  65. 
Midas,  Purg.  xx.  105. 
Milan,  Purg.  viii.  80 ;  xviii. 

120. 
Mincius,  H.  xx.  76. 
Minerva,  Purg.  xxx.  67.  Par. 

ii.  8. 
Minos,  H.  V.  4, 20 ;  xiii.  99 ; 

XX.  33 ;  xxvii.  120 ;  xxix^ 

114.     V\«R.\.Tl. 
I  MvaotaxiX)  n..  tua..  "K*. 


I 

:  I 


I 


■I 


S.N 


Moldaw,  Purg.  vii.  99. 
MouHldi,  Punt.  vi.  103. 

Monlferral,  Purg.tii.  1 

Hoi.U«a>i?  See  Paici 
MpulagueH,  ParK.  vi. 
Aloatanerto,  H.  xxiii. 
MoQlefeltm,  Pncg.  V.  L.. 
Montefellra  da,  Guldo,  H. 

xxvii.  et. 
MoutcmalD,  Par.  jy.  103. 
Motltemuria,  Par.  lyi.  e3 
Haiileree^ODi  H.  ixxi.  3 
Hautfart  de,  Guy,  H.  : 

IIU;  xxxii.  IB. 
Mouloue,  H.  xvi.  Bl. 
Motdeoiu.  Purs,  ivii-  30. 
Mordnw.lT.nxii.  59. 
Homuto,  Pu.  XV.  las. 
Moaca.  See  Uberti. 
MouBBj  II,    iv.    S4.     Purg. 


Mjirha,  H,  xu.  39. 

Nebuctiadnexiar,    Par. 

13. 
Norads,  Purg.  xxxiii,  59. 
Nnplof,  Pure.  iii.  BC. 
NarciflHQ§,  if.  XXX.  IW. 

Kbh,  H.  IT.  83.    See  Ovid. 


H,   1 


Navan 
Purd 

JVaxarelh,  Par,  ix.  133. 
NeLla,  Pun.  xxiii.  eo, 
NBptnne.H.xxviu.79.  Pai 
nS^H' uiv.  143. 

Nffiaua,  ILnij'.  96;xiii.  I. 
NiccdIu.  Hee  Selimbeni. 
Nictiolaa,  Saint,  Purg.  n 

Nicholas  m.,  H.  xii.  71. 
Nicoaia,  Par.  lui.  in, 
Nile,  h".  iixiT.  41.    Puts 


id.n.xxxi.To,    Pure. 
-  ..  39,    Par.  xiri.  125. 
NiDD.    SeeViBcooti. 
:4inuB,  H,  V.  SB. 
Jiiohe,  Purg.  xii.  33. 
Nisiii,  H.  i.  105. 
Noah.  H.  iv.  53.    Par.  xik  | 

15.  ■ 

Nucera,  Par.  ».  *1. 

Xoruiaii,  II.  xxviii.  tl, 
Novara.  H.  xxvili.  Sfl. 


Novella,  Guide ;  da  PolenU, 
H,  IIVU.  38, 

Olniza,  See  &t:e. 
Octavlua.    8«e  Cssar,  Au- 

Oderigi.  See  Agobbio. 
OlvmpnB,  Pui^.  Ksiv.  IB, 
Orabeilo,  Purg.  xL  ST.  _ 

Ordolalfi,  or  Aidelaffi,  Sat- 1 
balilo.H.xxvU.  ■■  ^ 

Orestea,  Purg.  xiii. 
Orinco,  Purg.  v. » 
OriaiidD,  HTxxxi. 


Orrriieug,  H.  iv.  13T. 
Oraini,H.xix,  78. 
OiTO,  Count,  Purg.  ri.  W 
OaUense,  Par,  xii.  ~ 
Otlocar,  Purs.  vii. 


NSK). 

Parliynian,  Par.  viiL  TS. 
Padua,  Par.  ix.  Ifl, 
Haduau,  H.  xvii,  B7, 
Padu»[ia,II,  iv.T, 
PffiBO,  Par,  liii.  K. 
PaKsni,  Pure.  xiv.  lai. 
Pa^ano,    MaclDuardo,    Ft, 

Paloiio  da.  Coorad,  PiUB 

Palemio,  Par.  Tiii,  VB. 

Pallas,  Minerva,  Purg,  til 


INDEX. 


583 


Pallas,  eon  of  Evander,  Par. 

vi.  34. 
Paolo,  H.  V.  131. 
Parcitati  de',  JVIontagna,  H. 

xxvii.  44. 
Paris,  city,  Parg.  xi.  81 ;  xx. 

51. 
Paris,  son  of  Priam,  H.  v. 

66. 
Parmenides,  Par.  xiii.  120. 
Parnassus,  Par.  i.  15. 
Parnassian,  Purg.  xxii.  65; 

xxviii.  147. 
Pasipliae,  H.  xii.  14.    Purg. 

xxvi.  36,  78. 
Paul,  Saint,  H.  ii.  34.  Purjf. 

xxix.    135.      Par.    xvin. 

128, 132 ;  xxi.  119 ;  xxviii. 

130. 
Pazzi,  Carlino,  H.  xxxii.  66. 
Pazzo,  Kiniero,  H.  xii.  138. 
Pegaseean,  Par.  xviii.  76. 
Peleus,  H.  xxxi.  4.    Purg. 

xxii.  113. 
Pelorus,  Purg.  xiv.  34.  Par. 

viii.  72. 
Peneian,  Par.  1.  31. 
Penelope,  H.  xxvi.  95. 
Penestrino,  H.  xxvii.  98. 
Penthesilea,  H.  iv.  121. 
Pera.  Par.  xvi.  124. 
Perillus,  H.  xxvii.  7. 
Persians^ar.  xix.  111. 
Persius,  Purg.  xxii.  99. 
Perugia,  Par.  vi.  77 ;  xi.  43. 
Pescniera,  H.  xx.  69. 
Peter,  Saint,  H.  i.  130 ;  ii. 

26 ;  xviii.  34  ;  xix.  94,  97 ; 

xxxi.  54.    Purg.  ix.  119; 

xix.  97.    Par.  ix.  136 ;  xi. 

112 ;  xviii.  128,  132 ;  xxi. 

118;  xxii.  86;  xxiii.  133; 

xxiv.  35;  XXV.  14;  xxvii. 

11;  xxxii.  110, 118. 
Peter  of  Spain,   Par.   xii. 

126. 
Peter  III.  of  Spain,  Purg. 

vii.  113, 126. 
Pettin£igno,    Piero,    Purg. 

xiii.  119. 
PhsBdra,  Par.  xvii.  46. 
Phaeton,  H.xvii.  102.  Pur§. 

iv.  68.    Par.  xvii.  1 ;  xxxi. 

116. 
Pharisees,    H.    xxiii.    118; 

xxvii.  81. 
Phaisalia,  Par.  vi.  67. 
Philip  111,  of  France,  Purg. 

vii.  104. 


Philip  IV.  of  France,   H. 

xix.  91.     Purg.  vii.  Ill; 

XX.  85.    Par.  xix.  117. 
Phihpe,  Purg.  xx.  49. 
Phlegethon,  H.   xiv.     Ill, 

126. 
Phlegrsean,  H.  xiv.  55. 
Plilegyas,  H.  viii.  18, 23. 
Phtebus,  H.  xxvi.  115. 
Phoenicia,  Par.  xxvii.  78. 
Pholus,  H.  xii.  69. 
Photinus,  H.  xi.  9. 
Phrygian,  Purg.  xx.  113. 
Phyllis,  Par.  ix.  96. 
Pia,  Purg.  V.  131. 
Piava,  Par.  ix.  28. 
Piccarda,  Purg.  xxiv.   11. 

Par.  iii.  50 ;  iv.  94, 108. 
Piceuo,  H.  xxiv.  147. 
Pierian.  Purg.  xxxi.  141. 
Pietra  della,  Nello,  Purg.  v. 

133. 
Pietrapana,  II.  xxxii.  29. 
Pietro.    See  Mangiadore. 
Pietro  Lombardo,  Par.  x. 

104. 
Pigli,  Par.  xvi.  100. 
Pilate,  Purg.  xx.  91. 
Pinamonte.     See    Buona- 

cossi. 
Pisa,  H.  xxxiii.  30, 77.  Purg. 

vi.  18. 
Pisans,  Puig.  xiv.  55. 
Pisces,  II.  xi.  118.    Purg.  i. 

21. 
Pisistratus,  Purg.  xv.  95. 
Pistoia,  U.  xxiv.  124,  142; 

XXV.  9. 
Pius  I.,  Par.  xxvii.  40. 
Plato,  H.  iv.  131.    Purg.  iii. 

41.    Par.  iv.  24. 
Plautus.  Purg.  xxii.  97. 
Plutus,  il.  vi.  117 ;  vii.  2. 
Po,  H.  V.  97 ;  XX.  77.    Purg. 

xiv    95;   xvi.  117.     Par. 

vi.  52. 
Poitou,  Purg.  XX.  64.    . 
Pola,  H.  ix.  112. 
Polenta,  H.  xxvii.  38.    See 

Novello. 
Polycletus,  Purg.  x.  30. 
Polydorus,  H.  xxx.  19.  Purg. 

XX.  113. 
Polyhymnia,  Par.  xxiii.  55. 
Poly mnestor,  Purg.  xx.  112. 
Polynices,    H.     xxvi.     55. 

Purg.  xxii.  57. 
PolyxeuaL,  \1.  -xxx.  \^. 


Ponneal.  Par.  x 
Poaille,  Pnrg.  yi 


Provencal] 


Piirg.  xxviii.Sl. 
,  Par.  vi.  m. 
Purg.  yii.   m; 
'ar.  riii.  60. 
I.   See  SolTuii. 
nnamea,  H.  xxdii.  113. 
Ptoleiny,  H.  iv.  139. 
Ptolemy,    king  of    Eaypl. 

Paf.  n.  ll. 
PygmBlion.  Pnrg.  ii.  103. 
Pyratnus,  Purg.  nrii.  38 ; 

axiii.  M. 
Pyrrlius,  H.  xii.  IJ5.    Par. 

Quarniim.  H.  ix.  1(9. 
Qulntlua  Cmcinnatus,  Par. 


Rahab,  Par.  ik.  113. 
Riymaiuj.    See  Berenger. 
RaphaflK  Par.  ^   "^ 

H.  XxvU.'JT.  Par. 


Rinien.    See  CalboU,  CW- 

nrto,  Pbiio. 
Riphiean,  Pnig.  xcvi.  38. 
EinheUB,  Par.  xx.  M. 
Ilobert,  Purg.  XI.  SI. 
Robert,  king  of  »<icily.  Par. 

Robert,    See  Giuscsrd. 
Ro>lol[>h,  Emperor,  Puts.  tj. 

104;  Tli.  04.    Pac.TiS.TT. 
RomBSDa,  H.  isrfi.  35. 34  i 

icpLSi.  isa.    Purg.  t.  W; 

Roraaii,  Pu^  i.  ST ;  KKxQ. 

101.    Par.  Tl.  43. 
Roiaana,  Par.  11.  W. 
Romano  di,  AtwjIiiw,  H. 

Romans,  IJ.  xv.  T7 ;  irUL 

Ronie,  H.'i. 
lOo;  xxvi. 
Purg.  vi. 


lYiJi.  mi 


lucni,  Giacopo,  H. 

RuUi,  Par.  liodl.  T. 

SabelliUB,  Par.  lUi. 
.SabelluB,  M.  xxv.  B 
Sabinee,  Par.  vi.  41 
Sacchetti,  Par.  iri. 
SaladiD.    Sefl.HDlda 


OTi 

1 


Samaria,  Purg.  xxi.  9. 

-'- b1,  Par.iT.M. 

la,  wile  «r   Riotianl, 
"  '■     Roman*,  nr. 


SanteciiD,  ^1.  xxvii.  40. 
Sapia,  Puia^  liii.  101. 

Saracens,     H.    xxvii. 

Putg.  xxiii.  9T. 
Sarah,  Par.  mil.  fl. 
SardHnapalua,  Pol.  iv.  1 


Savena,  H.  iviii.  fll. 
Savio,  H.  xiiii.  30. 
Saul,  Purg.  xii.  U. 
SejBvola,  MutiuB,   Par.  iv. 

Scala  (tella,  AlboiDO,  Par. 

ScBla*iIeila,  Baitolommeo, 

Par.  xvii.  6». 
Scala  della    Can  Grande, 


txtnBj  f  amu'ii: 

ibTl,  Pw."^' 
ichsttu,  H.  V. 

ici]iBn,H.xn 
icily,  H.  lii. 


irg.v..iai;  xi. 113,1! 


SittDB,  da,  Boni&zio,  Far. 

Sile,  Par^  ix.  K. 
SilviuB,  H.  ii.  11. 
Similbnlp.  Par.  xvi.  81. 
SinioiB,  Par.  vi.  70. 
Simon    Magus,  H.  xii.  1. 


Sciancato,  Pucoio.  H.  XXV.  I  Socrates,  H.  k 

I3«.  I  Sodom,   H.    i 

Scipio,  H.  xxii.  loa.    Purg.       iivi.  3S,  72. 


Sclavonian,  Purg.  xn.  88. 
Sconiigiani  de',   Farinala, 
Piirg.,vi,,18. 


Poig.  vi.  IB. 
ScDcpian,  Pure,  xn 
Scot,  Michael  H.X 
Scot,  Par.  lix.  191. 
Scrovignt,  H.  ivii,  ( 
Semite,  Purg.  ii.  3S 


irtxii. 


S<don,  Pat.  viii.  I! 
Soraotc,  H.  ixvii. 
Sordello,  Purg.  v 


Spaniaiij,    Par.    lii.    I 
Sphinx,  Piiig.  nxiii.  11. 


Stecdien,  Saint,  Puig.  i 
Swicca,  H-  xiii~  Vitv . 


ValdimngTa,  H.  xxiv 

Pui^.  viii.  115. 
VslilipBdo,  Fai.  IT.  13 
Valen,  Sieui  <le.    See 

do. 
Vanni.    Sm  Fucci. 


DEX.  587 

.    UgdiDO.  See  Ghemrdcschi, 
and  Fantolini. 
Ugucciooe,  eon  of  Count 
UkoIuio  de'  Gtier&nleschi, 

Viceaza,  Par.  ii.  4T. 
Victor    Stmt,    IIuBue*  of. 

Par.  lii.  135. 
Victoi  Saint.    Itichanl  of, 


Ubaldiai   degli,    Ubaldina;  VisccniG   de',  GaleBZio,  of 

of  Pisa,  Purg.  iiiv.  M.  Milan,  Pure,  viii.eo,  IW. 

Ubaldini  degli,  Ugolino;  of  Viscoati  de',  Nino;  di  Gal- 

Aran,  PiWE.  xiv.  lOT.  liira,  II.  nxii.  m.     Pmg. 


i;of   Vi 

UtaWnf,  UroUdq  1  <rf' Faen-      i 
-   Paw.»».  IM 
do,  ^.  xi.  41. 


lIbbHaclii,H.xrli.  60. 
L'berti,"  —"  •- 
Uberti  < 


Visloraini.  A.r.  i»i.  IK 
Vitaliano.  SeeDenle. 
Ulyraes,  If .  xxvi.  M.    F 

II.  iiu.  xii.  31.    Par.  xiTii. ' 

Foriuata,  H.    Urania,  Purg,  ixii.  30. 


Ube'rti  deali,  Mosca,  II.  tl.    Urbici 

Ulica^i 


UbertiiLO,  Par.  lii.  115. 
UbertiDo.  See  Donati. 
Uberto,  Par.  xii.  ill. 
Uccellatpia.  P"-  xv.  1( 
Veooliio,Fai.XT.  110. 
Venedico.      See    Cacc 


lo,  H.  I 


WiUiam,  MamuiB  o(  Mont- 
lani-       ferral,  Purg.  vii.  136. 

William,  ol-  Orange,   Par, 

Venice,  Par.  lix.m.  William  11.  of  Sicily,  Par. 

Venua,  Plug,  iitvii.  M.  n.  si. 

Vercelli,  H.  ncviii.  71.  Wincealam.  II„  Pnrg.  vii. 

Venle,  Pnrg.  lii.  117.    Par.  1«3.    Par.  xii.  1S3. 

Tiii.  86. 

Verona,  H.  X7.  12*.    Pnrg.  Xerxeg,  Porg.   Jtiviii.   TO. 

iTiii.  11T.  Par.  viii.  13D. 


