% 


.^^'  ^^. 


A^^'  "^^• 


A         ^   «- 


''!/_.    v^' 


•^ 


XC 


A        ■'/ 


7. 


'^^'i0^  ~: 


A^^  '^r. 


V     i     ^ 


:    A^   ■'->.  - 


^4':'^^ 


0' 


-^^ 


'"A  V 


-^^ 


sc:^^^=    ^>  ''-p 


'-^ 


<y  . 


,^^^' 


y^     )f 


r>,V 


A' 


o.^' 


^^.  v^^ 


.;?^  '^ 


^^ 


^0  o,. 


•-<*#.- 


^   .%^ 


Hi5#- 


>/-    v-^^ 


^^A    S^ 


C^ 


,V    r-. 


,^^   "*^. 


"'    \^^ 


.^^ 


\-- 


^<^, 


^^^^  V^' 


^ 

v-^ 

V 

% 

/■ 

^ 

'Z 

^^^' 

^ 

\ 

.\\ 

■^^    ^ 

',     c 


^^  ^     ^0(lM>-. 


^c. 


^^    ^^^^'-'-^      * 


"^^Ni^^ 


v->* 

-A  ' 

•s. 

'-^z  %^"" 

,xx^-  % 

^.'^o 


X     ■^. 


V    n  A 


A- 


rP^  t. 


A"      V 


':s.  .A^ 


^'■•^. 


..~3 


A>'  </>. 


'>     f 
*     ^ 


c-Ta 


•A^^ 


-7 


-■r^,     ^' 


c*-. 


*^ 


s^ 


,0^-^' 


'^  ^    ^'^^_ 


^     ^ 


-Y    .^ 


.0  o 


K^ 


<^    '-^^ 


^<^  : 


fSrra^ 


^/  .vV 


^<^- 


TheWarof 
the  Worlds 

r>ij  ll.G.W'KLLS,  .///Mor 
of  ^^Thr    Time    Machine'' 


HARPER     At      BROIHKRS     PUBLISH  KkS 
NKW     YORK     AND     LONDON 


■     '■  -Si. 


Copyright,  1897,  by  H.  G.  Weixs, 


Copyright,  1898,  by  Harper  &  Brothers. 


PRINTED    IN    THE    UNITED    STATES    OF    AMERICA 


TO 

MY   BROTHER 

FRANK   WELLS 

TK.S   RENDERING 
OF 

HI&  IDEA 


**But  who  shah  dwellin  these  Worlds  if  they  he  inhabited  ?^ 
.  .  .  Are  we  o*-  they  Lords  of  the  World?  .  .  .  And 
how  are  all  things  made  for  man  ?*' 

Kepler  (quoted in  **  The  Anatomy  of  Melancholy"). 


CONTENTS 


JBooft  1 

THE   COMING  OF   THE   MARTIANS 

I.  The  Eve  of  the  War 3 

II.  The  Falling-Star 14 

III.  On  Horsell  Common 21 

IV.  The  Cylinder  Unscrews 26 

V.  The  Heat-Ray 32 

VI.  l^HE  Heat-Ray  in  the  Chobham  Road  .     .  39 

VII.  How  I  Reached  Home 44 

VIII.  Friday  Night 51 

IX.  The  Fighting  Begins 56 

X.  In  the  Storm 66 

XI.  At  the  Window 77 

XII.  What  I  Saw  of  the  Destruction  of  Wey- 

bridge  and  Shepperton 87 

XIII.  How  I  Fell  in  with  the  Curate      .     .    .  106 

XIV.  In  London 115 

XV.  What  had  Happened  in  Surrey    ....  134 

XVI.  The  Exodus  from  London 14S 

XVII.  The  **  Thunder  Child" 169 


CONTENTS 
JSooft  11 

THE    EARTH    UNDER    THE   MARTIANS 

PAGB 

I.  Under  Foot 187 

II.  What  We  Saw  from  the  Ruined  House  .  199 

III.  The  Days  of  Imprisonment 215 

IV.  The  Death  of  the  Curate 224 

V.  The  Stillness 232 

VI.  The  Work  of  Fifteen  Days 237 

VII.  The  Man  on  Putney  Hill 243 

VIII.  Dead  London 269 

IX.  Wreckage 283 


JSooIt  f 

THE  COMING  OF  THE  MARTIANS 


THE  EVE  OF  THE  WAR 

No  one  would  have  believed,  in  the  last  years 
of  the  nineteenth  century,  that  human  affairs 
Were  being  watched  keenly  and  closely  by  in- 
telligences greater  than  man's  and  yet  as  mor- 
tal as  his  own  ;  that  as  men  busied  themselves 
about  their  affairs  they  were  scrutinized  and 
studied,  perhaps  almost  as  narrowly  as  a  man 
with  a  microscope  might  scrutinize  the  tran- 
sient creatures  that  swarm  and  multiply  in  a 
drop  of  water.  With  infinite  complacency  men 
went  to  and  fro  over  this  globe  about  their  little 
affairs,  serene  in  their  assurance  of  their  empire 
over  matter.  It  is  possible  that  the  infusoria 
under  the  microscope  do  the  same.  No  one 
gave  a  thought  to  the  older  worlds  of  space  as 
sources  of  human  danger,  or  thought  of  them 
only  to  dismiss  the  idea  of  life  upon  them  as 
impossible  or  improbable.  It  is  curious  to  re- 
call some  of  the  mental  habits  of  those  depart- 
ed days.  At  most,  terrestrial  men  fancied 
there  might  be  other  men  upon  Mars,  perhaps 

3 


THE  WAR  OF  THE  WORLDS 

inferior  to  themselves  and  ready  to  welcome  a 
missionary  enterprise.  Yet,  across  the  gulf  cf 
space,  minds  that  are  to  our  minds  as  ours  are 
to  those  of  the  beasts  that  perish,  intellects  vast 
and  cool  and  unsympathetic,  regarded  this 
earth  with  envious  eyes,  and  slowly  and  surely 
drew  their  plans  against  us.  And  early  in  the 
twentieth  century  came  the  great  disillusion- 
ment. 

The  planet  Mars,  I  scarcely  need  remind  the 
reader,  revolves  about  the  sun  at  a  mean  dis- 
tance of  140,000,000  miles,  and  the  light  and 
heat  it  receives  from  the  sun  is  barely  half  of 
that  received  by  this  world.  It  must  be,  if  the 
nebular  hypothesis  has  any  truth,  older  than 
our  world,  and  long  before  this  earth  ceased  to 
be  molten  life  upon  its  surface  must  have  be- 
gun its  course.  The  fact  that  it  is  scarcely 
one-seventh  of  the  volume  of  the  earth  must 
have  accelerated  its  cooling  to  the  temperature 
at  which  life  could  begin.  It  has  air  and  water, 
and  all  that  is  necessary  for  the  support  of  ani- 
mated existence. 

Yet  so  vain  is  man,  and  so  blinded  by  his 
vanity,  that  no  writer,  up  to  the  very  end  of 
the  nineteenth  century,  expressed  any  idea 
that  intelligent  life  might  have  developed 
there  far,  or  indeed  at  all,  beyond  its  earthly 
level.     Nor  was  it  generally  understood  that 

4 


THE    EVE    OF    THE    WAR 

since  Mars  is  older  than  our  earth,  with  scarce- 
ly a  quarter  of  the  superficial  area,  and  remot- 
er  from  the  sun,  it  necessarily  follows  that  it 
is  not  only  more  distant  from  life's  beginning 
but  nearer  its  end. 

The  secular  cooling  that  must  some  day  over- 
take our  planet  has  already  gone  far  indeed 
with  our  neighbor.  Its  physical  condition 
is  still  largely  a  mystery,  but  we  know  now 
that  even  in  its  equatorial  region  the  mid-day 
temperature  barely  approaches  that  of  our 
coldest  winter.  Its  air  is  much  more  attenu- 
ated than  ours,  its  oceans  have  shrunk  until 
they  cover  but  a  third  of  its  surface,  and  as  its 
slow  seasons  change  huge  snow  caps  gather 
and  melt  about  either  pole  and  periodically  in- 
undate its  temperate  zones.  That  last  stage  of 
exhaustion,  which  to  us  is  still  incredibly  re- 
mote, has  become  a  present-day  problem  for 
the  inhabitants  of  Mars.  The  immediate  press- 
ure of  necessity  has  brightened  their  intellects, 
enlarged  their  powers,  and  hardened  their 
hearts.  And  looking  across  space,  with  instru- 
ments and  intelligences  such  as  we  have  scarce- 
ly dreamed  of,  they  see,  at  its  nearest  distance, 
only  35,000,000  of  miles  sunward  of  them,  a 
morning  star  of  hope,  our  own  warmer  planet, 
green  with  vegetation  and  gray  with  water, 
with  a  cloudy  atmosphere  eloquent  of  fertility, 

5 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

with  glimpses  through  its  drifting  cloud-wisps 
of  broad  stretches  of  populous  country  and 
narrow,  navy-crowded  seas. 

And  we  men,  the  creatures  who  inhabit  this 
earth,  must  be  to  them  at  least  as  alien  and 
lowly  as  are  the  nionkeys  and  lemurs  to  us. 
The  intellectual  side  of  man  already  admits 
that  life  is  an  incessant  struggle  for  existence, 
and  it  would  seem  that  this  too  is  the  belief  of 
the  minds  upon  Mars.  Their  world  is  far  gone 
in  its  cooling,  and  this  world  is  still  crowded 
with  life,  but  crowded  only  with  what  they  re- 
gard as  inferior  animals.  To  carry  warfare 
sunward  is,  indeed,  their  only  escape  from  the 
destruction  that  generation  after  generation 
creeps  upon  them. 

And  before  we  judge  of  them  too  harshly  we 
must  remember  what  ruthless  and  utter  de- 
struction our  own  species  has  wrought,  not  only 
upon  animals,  such  as  the  vanished  bison  and 
the  dodo,  but  upon  its  own  inferior  races.  The 
Tasmanians,  in  spite  of  their  human  likeness, 
were  entirely  swept  out  of  existence  in  a  war 
of  extermination  waged  by  European  immi- 
grants, in  the  space  of  fifty  years.  Are  we 
such  apostles  of  mercy  as  to  complain  if  the 
Martians  warred  in  the  same  spirit  ? 

The  Martians  seem  to  have  calculated  their 
descent  with  amazing  subtlety — their  mathe- 

6 


THE    EVE    OF    THE    WAR 

matical  learning  is  evidently  far  in  excess 
of  ours — and  to  have  carried  out  their  prep- 
arations with  a  well  -  nigh  perfect  unanim- 
ity. Had  our  instruments  permitted  it,  we 
might  have  seen  the  gathering  trouble  far 
back  in  the  nineteenth  century.  Men  like 
Schiaparelli  watched  the  red  planet — it  is  odd, 
by-the-by,  that  for  countless  centuries  Mars 
has  been  the  star  of  war — but  failed  to  inter- 
pret the  fluctuating  appearances  of  the  mark- 
ings they  mapped  so  well.  All  that  time  the 
Martians  must  have  been  getting  ready. 

During  the  opposition  of  1894  a  great  light 
was  seen  on  the  illuminated  part  of  the  disk, 
first  at  the  Lick  Observatory,  then  by  Perrotin 
of  Nice,  and  then  by  other  observers.  English 
readers  heard  of  it  first  in  the  issue  of  Nature 
dated  August  2d.  I  am  inclined  to  think  that 
the  appearance  may  have  been  the  casting  of 
the  huge  gun,  the  vast  pit  sunk  into  their 
planet,  from  which  their  shots  were  fired  at  us. 
Peculiar  markings,  as  yet  unexplained,  were 
seen  near  the  site  of  that  outbreak  during  the 
next  two  oppositions. 

The  storm  burst  upon  us  six  years  ago  now. 
As  Mars  approached  opposition,  Lavelle  of 
Java  set  the  wires  of  the  astronomical  ex- 
change palpitating  with  the  amazing  intelli- 
gence of  a  huge  outbreak  of  incandescent  gas 

7 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

upon  the  planet.  It  had  occurred  towards 
midnight  of  the  12th,  and  the  spectroscope,  to 
which  he  had  at  once  resorted,  indicated  a 
mass  of  flaming  gas,  chiefly  hydrogen,  moving 
with  an  enormous  velocity  towards  this  earth. 
This  jet  of  fire  had  become  invisible  about  a 
quarter  past  twelve.  He  compared  it  to  a 
colossal  puff  of  flame,  suddenly  and  violently 
squirted  out  of  the  planet,  ''  as  flaming  gas 
rushes  out  of  a  gun." 

A  singularly  appropriate  phrase  it  proved. 
Yet  the  next  day  there  was  nothing  of  this  in 
the  papers,  except  a  little  note  in  the  Daily 
Telegraphy  and  the  world  went  in  ignorance  of 
one  of  the  gravest  dangers  that  ever  threat- 
ened the  human  race.  I  might  not  have  heard 
of  the  eruption  at  all  had  I  not  met  Ogilvy, 
the  well-known  astronomer,  at  Ottershaw.  He 
was  immensely  excited  at  the  news,  and  in  the 
excess  of  his  feelings  invited  me  up  to  take  a 
turn  with  him  that  night  in  a  scrutiny  of  the 
red  planet. 

In  spite  of  all  that  has  happened  since,  I  still 
remember  that  vigil  very  distinctly  :  the  black 
and  silent  observatory,  the  shadowed  lantern 
throwing  a  feeble  glow  upon  the  floor  in  the 
corner,  the  steady  ticking  of  the  clockwork  of 
the  telescope,  the  little  slit  in  the  roof — an 
oblong  profundity,  with  the  star-dust  streaked 

8 


THE    EVE    OF    THE    WAR 

across  it.  Ogilvy  moved  about,  invisible  but 
audible.  Looking  through  the  telescope,  one 
saw  a  circle  of  deep  blue,  and  the  little,  round 
planet  swimming  in  the  field.  It  seemed  such 
a  little  thing,  so  bright  and  small  and  still, 
faintly  marked  with  transverse  stripes,  and 
slightly  flattened  from  the  perfect  round.  But 
so  little  it  was,  so  silvery  warm — a  pin's-head  of 
light !  It  was  as  if  it  quivered  a  little,  but 
really  this  was  the  telescope  vibrating  with  the 
activity  of  the  clockwork  that  kept  the  planet 
in  view. 

As  I  watched  the  little  star  seemed  to  grow 
larger  and  smaller,  and  to  advance  and  recede, 
but  that  was  simply  that  my  eye  was  tired. 
Forty  millions  of  miles  it  was  from  us — more 
than  forty  millions  of  miles  of  void.  Few  peo- 
ple realize  the  immensity  of  vacancy  in  which 
the  dust  of  the  material  universe  swims. 

Near  it  in  the  field,  I  remember,  were  three 
little  points  of  light,  three  telescopic  stars  in- 
finitely remote,  and  all  around  it  was  the  un- 
fathomable darkness  of  empty  space.  You 
know  how  that  blackness  looks  on  a  frosty 
starlight  night.  In  a  telescope  it  seems  far 
profounder.  And  invisible  to  me,  because  it 
was  so  remote  and  small,  flying  swiftly  and 
steadily  towards  me  across  that  incredible 
distance,  drawing  nearer  every  minute  by  so 

9 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

many  thousands  of  miles,  came  the  Thing  they 
were  sending  us,  the  Thing  that  was  to  bring 
so  much  struggle  and  calamity  and  death  to  the 
earth.  I  never  dreamed  of  it  then  as  I  watched  ; 
no  one  on  earth  dreamed  of  that  unerring  mis- 
sile. 

That  night,  too,  there  was  another  jetting 
out  of  gas  from  the  distant  planet.  I  saw  it. 
A  reddish  flash  at  the  edge,  the  slightest  pro- 
jection of  the  outline,  just  as  the  chronometer 
struck  midnight,  and  at  that  I  told  Ogilvy,  and 
he  took  my  place.  The  night  was  warm  and  I 
was  thirsty,  and  I  went,  stretching  my  legs 
clumsily,  and  feeling  my  way  in  the  darkness, 
to  the  little  table  where  the  siphon  stood,  while 
Ogilvy  exclaimed  at  the  streamer  of  gas  that 
come  out  towards  us. 

That  night  another  invisible  missile  started 
on  its  way  to  the  earth  from  Mars,  just  a  sec- 
ond or  so  under  twenty-four  hours  after  the 
first  one.  I  remember  how  I  sat  on  the  table 
there  in  the  blackness,  with  patches  of  green 
and  crimson  swimming  before  my  eyes.  I  wished 
I  had  a  light  to  smoke  by,  little  suspecting  the 
meaning  of  the  minute  gleam  I  had  seen,  and 
all  that  it  would  presently  bring  me.  Ogilvy 
watched  till  one,  and  then  gave  it  up,  and  we 
lit  the  lantern  and  walked  over  to  his  house. 
Down  below  in  the  darkness  were  Ottershaw 

10 


THE    EVE    OF    THE    WAR 

and  Chertsey,  and  all  their  hundreds  of  people^ 
sleeping  in  peace. 

He  was  full  of  speculation  that  night  about 
the  condition  of  Mars,  and  scoffed  at  the  vul- 
gar idea  of  its  having  inhabitants  who  were 
signalling  us.  His  idea  was  that  meteorites 
might  be  falling  in  a  heavy  shower  upon  the 
planet,  or  that  a  huge  volcanic  explosion  was 
in  progress.  He  pointed  out  to  me  how  un- 
likely it  was  that  organic  evolution  had  taken 
the  same  direction  in  the  two  adjacent  planets. 

*'The  chances  against  anything  man-like  on 
Mars  are  a  million  to  one,"  he  said. 

Hundreds  of  observers  saw  the  flame  that 
night  and  the  night  after,  about  midnight,  and 
again  the  night  after,  and  so  for  ten  nights,  a 
flame  each  night.  Why  the  shots  ceased  after 
the  tenth  no  one  on  earth  has  attempted  to 
explain.  It  may  be  the  gases  of  the  firing 
caused  the  Martians  inconvenience.  Dense 
clouds  of  smoke  or  dust,  visible  through  a  pow- 
erful telescope  on  earth  as  little  gray,  fluctu- 
ating patches,  spread  through  the  clearness  of 
the  planet^s  atmosphere  and  obscured  its  more 
familiar  features. 

Even  the  daily  papers  woke  up  to  the  dis- 
turbances at  last,  and  popular  notes  appeared 
here,  there,  and  everywhere  concerning  the 
volcanoes  upon  Mars.     The  serio-comic  peri- 

II 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

odical  Punchy  I  remember,  made  a  happy  use 
of  it  in  the  political  cartoon.  And,  all  unsus- 
pected, those  missiles  the  Martians  had  fired 
at  us  drew  earthward,  rushing  now  at  a  pace 
of  many  miles  a  second  through  the  empty 
gulf  of  space,  hour  by  hour  and  day  by  day, 
nearer  and  nearer.  It  seems  to  me  now  al- 
most incredibly  wonderful  that,  with  that  swift 
fate  hanging  over  us,  men  could  go  about  their 
petty  concerns  as  they  did.  I  remember  how 
jubilant  Markham  was  at  securing  a  new  pho- 
tograph of  the  planet  for  the  illustrated  paper 
he  edited  in  those  days.  People  in  these  latter 
times  scarcely  realize  the  abundance  and  en- 
terprise of  our  nineteenth-century  papers.  For 
my  own  part,  I  was  much  occupied  in  learning 
to  ride  the  bicycle,  and  busy  upon  a  series  of 
papers  discussing  the  probable  developments 
of  moral  ideas  as  civilization  progressed. 

One  night  (the  first  missile  then  could  scarce- 
ly have  been  10,000,000  miles  away)  I  went  for 
a  walk  with  my  wife.  It  was  starlight,  and  I 
explained  the  Signs  of  the  Zodiac  to  her,  and 
pointed  out  Mars,  a  bright  dot  of  light  creep- 
ing zenithward,  towards  which  so  many  tele- 
scopes were  pointed.  It  was  a  warm  night 
Coming  home,  a  party  of  excursionists  from 
Chertsey  or  Isleworth  passed  us  singing  and 
playing  music.    There  were  lights  in  the  upper 

12 


THE    EVE    OF    THE    WAR 

windows  of  the  houses  as  the  people  went  to 
bed.  From  the  railway  station  in  the  distance 
came  the  sound  of  shunting  trains,  ringing  and 
rumbling,  softened  almost  into  melody  by  the 
distance.  My  wife  pointed  out  to  me  the 
brightness  of  the  red,  green,  and  yellow  signal 
lights  hanging  in  a  framework  against  the 
sky.     It  seemed  so  safe  and  tranquil. 


II 

THE  FALLING -STAR 

Then  came  the  night  of  the  first  falling-star. 
It  was  seen  early  in  the  morning  rushing  over 
Winchester  eastward,  a  line  of  flame,  high  in 
the  atmosphere.  Hundreds  must  have  seen  it, 
and  taken  it  for  an  ordinary  falling-star.  Al- 
bin  described  it  as  leaving  a  greenish  streak 
behind  it  that  glowed  for  some  seconds.  Den- 
ning, our  greatest  authority  on  meteorites, 
stated  that  the  height  of  its  first  appearance 
was  about  ninety  or  one  hundred  miles.  It 
seemed  to  him  that  it  fell  to  earth  about  one 
hundred  miles  east  of  him. 

I  was  at  home  at  that  hour  and  writing  in 
my  study;  and  although  my  French  windows 
face  towards  Ottershaw  and  the  blind  was  up 
(for  I  loved  in  those  days  to  look  up  at  the 
night  sky),  I  saw  nothing  of  it.  Yet  this 
strangest  of  all  things  that  ever  came  to  earth 
from  outer  space  must  have  fallen  while  I  was 
sitting  there,  visible  to  me  had  I  only  looked 
up  as  it  passed.     Some  of  those  who  saw  its 

14 


THE    FALLING-STAR 

flight  say  it  travelled  with  a  hissing  sound.  I 
myself  heard  nothing  of  that.  Many  people 
in  Berkshire,  Surrey,  and  Middlesex  must  have 
seen  the  fall  of  it,  and,  at  most,  have  thought 
that  another  meteorite  had  descended.  No 
one  seems  to  have  troubled  to  look  for  the 
fallen  mass  that  night. 

But  very  early  in  the  morning  poor  Ogilvy, 
who  had  seen  the  shooting-star,  and  who  was 
persuaded  that  a  meteorite  lay  somewhere  on 
the  common  between  Horsell,  Ottershaw,  and 
Woking,  rose  early  with  the  idea  of  finding  it. 
Find  it  he  did,  soon  after  dawn,  and  not  far 
from  the  sand-pits.  An  enormous  hole  had 
been  made  by  the  impact  of  the  projectile,  and 
the  sand  and  gravel  had  been  flung  violently 
in  every  direction  over  the  heath  and  heather, 
forming  heaps  visible  a  mile  and  a  half  away. 
The  heather  was  on  fire  eastward,  and  a  thin 
blue  smoke  rose  against  the  dawn. 

The  Thing  itself  lay  almost  entirely  buried 
in  sand,  amidst  the  scattered  splinters  of  a  fir- 
tree  it  had  shivered  to  fragments  in  its  de- 
scent. The  uncovered  part  had  the  appear- 
ance of  a  huge  cylinder,  caked  over,  and  its 
outline  softened  by  a  thick,  scaly,  dun-colored 
incrustation.  It  had  a  diameter  of  about  thirty 
yards.  He  approached  the  mass,  surprised  at 
the  size  and  more  so  at  the  shape,  since  most 

IS 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

meteorites  are  rounded  more  or  less  complete- 
ly. It  was,  however,  still  so  hot  from  its  flight 
through  the  air  as  to  forbid  his  near  approach. 
A  stirring  noise  within  its  cylinder  he  ascribed 
to  the  unequal  cooling  of  its  surface  ;  for  at 
that  time  it  had  not  occurred  to  him  that  it 
might  be  hollow. 

He  remained  standing  at  the  edge  of  the  pit 
that  the  Thing  had  made  for  itself,  staring  at 
its  strange  appearance,  astonished  chiefly  at 
its  unusual  shape  and  color,  and  dimly  per- 
ceiving even  then  some  evidence  of  design  in 
its  arrival.  The  early  morning  was  wonder- 
fully still,  and  the  sun,  just  clearing  the  pine- 
trees  towards  Weybridge,  was  already  warm. 
He  did  not  remember  hearing  any  birds  that 
morning,  there  was  certainly  no  breeze  stirring, 
and  the  only  sounds  were  the  faint  movements 
from  within  the  cindery  cylinder.  He  was  all 
alone  on  the  common. 

Then  suddenly  he  noticed  with  a  start  that 
some  of  the  gray  clinker,  the  ashy  incrustation 
that  covered  the  meteorite,  was  falling  off  the 
circular  edge  of  the  end.  It  was  dropping  off 
in  flakes  and  raining  down  upon  the  sand.  A 
large  piece  suddenly  came  off  and  fell  with  a 
sharp  noise  that  brought  his  heart  into  his 
mouth. 

For  a  minute  he  scarcely  realized  what  this 

i6 


THE    FALLING-STAR 

meant,  and,  although  the  heat  was  excessive, 
he  clambered  down  into  the  pit  close  to  the 
bulk  to  see  the  Thing  more  clearly.  He  fancied 
even  then  that  the  cooling  of  the  body  might 
account  for  this,  but  what  disturbed  that  idea 
was  the  fact  that  the  ash  was  falling  only  from 
the  end  of  the  cylinder. 

And  then  he  perceived  that,  very  slowly,  the 
circular  top  of  the  cylinder  was  rotating  on  its 
body.  It  was  such  a  gradual  movement  that 
he  discovered  it  only  through  noticing  that  a 
black  mark  that  had  been  near  him  five  min- 
utes ago  was  now  at  the  other  side  of  the  cir- 
cumference. Even  then  he  scarcely  understood 
what  this  indicated,  until  he  heard  a  muffled 
grating  sound  and  saw  the  black  mark  jerk 
forward  an  inch  or  so.  Then  the  thing  came 
upon  him  in  a  flash.  The  cylinder  was  arti- 
ficial— hollow — with  an  end  that  screwed  out  ! 
Something  within  the  cylinder  was  unscrewing 
the  top  ! 

"Good  heavens  !"  said  Ogilvy.  "There's  a 
man  in  it — men  in  it !  Half  roasted  to  death  ! 
Trying  to  escape  !" 

At  once,  with  a  quick  mental  leap,  he  linked 
the  Thing  with  the  flash  upon  Mars. 

The  thought  of  the  confined  creature  was  so 
dreadful  to  him  that  he  forgot  the  heat,  and 
went   forward   to  the   cylinder  to   help  turn. 

B  17 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

But  luckily  the  dull  radiation  arrested  him  be- 
fore he  could  burn  his  hands  on  the  still  glow- 
ing metal.  At  that  he  stood  irresolute  for  a 
moment,  then  turned,  scrambled  out  of  the 
pit,  and  set  off  running  wildly  into  Woking. 
The  time  then  must  have  been  somewhere 
about  six  o'clock.  He  met  a  wagoner  and 
tried  to  make  him  understand,  but  the  tale  he 
told,  and  his  appearance,  were  so  wild — his  hat 
had  fallen  off  in  the  pit — that  the  man  simply 
drove  on.  He  was  equally  unsuccessful  with 
the  potman  who  was  just  unlocking  the  doors 
of  the  public -house  by  Horsell  Bridge.  The 
fellow  thought  he  was  a  lunatic  at  large,  and 
made  an  unsuccessful  attempt  to  shut  him 
into  the  tap  -  room.  That  sobered  him  a 
little,  and  when  he  saw  Henderson,  the  Lon- 
don journalist,  in  his  garden,  he  called 
over  the  palings  and  made  himself  under- 
stood. 

"  Henderson,"  he  called,  "  you  saw  that 
shooting-star  last  night?" 

"  Well  ?"  said  Henderson. 

"  It*s  out  on  Horsell  Common  now." 

"  Good  Lord  !"  said  Henderson.  "  Fallen 
meteorite !     That's  good." 

"  But  it's  something  more  than  a  meteorite. 
It's  a  cylinder — an  artificial  cylinder,  man! 
And  there's  something  inside." 

i8 


THE    FALLING-STAR 

Henderson  stood  up  with  his  spade  in  his 
hand. 

"  What*s  that  ?*'  he  said.  He  was  deaf  in 
one  ear. 

Ogilvy  told  him  all  that  he  had  seen.  Hen- 
derson was  a  minute  or  so  taking  it  in.  Then 
he  dropped  his  spade,  snatched  up  his  jacket, 
and  came  out  into  the  road.  The  two  men 
hurried  back  at  once  to  the  common,  and  found 
the  cylinder  still  lying  in  the  same  position. 
But  now  the  sounds  inside  had  ceased,  and  a 
thin  circle  of  bright  metal  showed  between  the 
top  and  the  body  of  the  cylinder.  Air  was 
either  entering  or  escaping  at  the  rim  with  a 
thin,  sizzling  sound. 

They  listened,  rapped  on  the  scale  with  a 
stick,  and,  meeting  with  no  response,  they 
both  concluded  the  man  or  men  inside  must 
be  insensible  or  dead. 

Of  course  the  two  were  quite  unable  to  do 
anything.  They  shouted  consolation  and  prom- 
ises, and  went  off  back  to  the  town  again  to 
get  help.  One  can  imagine  them,  covered  with 
sand,  excited  and  disordered,  running  up  the 
little  street  in  the  bright  sunlight,  just  as  the 
shop  folks  were  taking  down  their  shutters  and 
people  were  opening  their  bedroom  windows. 
Henderson  went  into  the  railway  station  at 
once,  in  order  to  telegraph  the  news  to  London. 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

The  newspaper   articles   had   prepared  men's 
minds  for  the  reception  of  the  idea. 

By  eight  o'clock  a  number  of  boys  and  un- 
employed men  had  already  started  for  the 
common  to  see  the  "dead  men  from  Mars." 
That  was  the  form  the  story  took.  I  heard  of 
it  first  from  my  newspaper  boy,  about  a  quar- 
ter to  nine,  when  I  went  out  to  get  my  Daily 
Chronicle.  I  was  naturally  startled,  and  lost 
no  time  in  going  out  and  across  the  Ottershaw 
bridge  to  the  sand-pits. 


Ill 

ON  HORSELL  COMMON 

I  FOUND  a  little  crowd  of  perhaps  twenty  peo- 
ple surrounding  the  huge  hole  in  which  the 
cylinder  lay.  I  have  already  described  the  ap- 
pearance of  that  colossal  bulk,  imbedded  in  the 
ground.  The  turf  and  gravel  about  it  seemed 
charred  as  if  by  a  sudden  explosion.  No  doubt 
its  impact  had  caused  a  flash  of  fire.  Hender- 
son and  Ogilvy  were  not  there.  I  think  they 
perceived  that  nothing  was  to  be  done  for  the 
present,  and  had  gone  away  to  breakfast  at 
Henderson's  house. 

There  were  four  or  five  boys  sitting  on  the 
edge  of  the  pit,  with  their  feet  dangling,  and 
amusing  themselves — until  I  stopped  them — 
by  throwing  stones  at  the  giant  mass.  After 
I  had  spoken  to  them  about  it,  they  began 
playing  at  'Houch"  in  and  out  of  the  group  of 
bystanders. 

Among  these  were  a  couple  of  cyclists,  a 
jobbing  gardener  I  employed  sometimes,  a  girl 
carrying  a  baby,  Gregg  the  butcher  and  his 

21 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

little  boy,  and  two  or  three  loafers  and  golf 
caddies  who  were  accustomed  to  hang  about 
the  railway  station.  There  was  very  little 
talking.  Few  of  the  common  people  in  Eng- 
land had  anything  but  the  vaguest  astronom- 
ical ideas  in  those  days.  Most  of  them  were 
staring  quietly  at  the  big  table-like  end  of  the 
cylinder,  which  was  still  as  Ogilvy  and  Hen- 
derson had  left  it.  I  fancy  the  popular  ex- 
pectation of  a  heap  of  charred  corpses  was 
disappointed  at  this  inanimate  bulk.  Some 
went  away  while  I  was  there,  and  other  people 
came.  I  clambered  into  the  pit  and  fancied  I 
heard  a  faint  movement  under  my  feet.  The 
top  had  certainly  ceased  to  rotate. 

It  was  only  when  I  got  thus  close  to  it  that 
the  strangeness  of  this  object  was  at  all  evi- 
dent to  me.  At  the  first  glance  it  was  really 
no  more  exciting  than  an  overturned  car- 
riage or  a  tree  blown  across  the  road.  Not  so 
much  so,  indeed.  It  looked  like  a  rusty  gas- 
float  half  buried  more  than  anything  else  in 
the  world.  It  required  a  certain  amount  of 
scientific  education  to  perceive  that  the  gray 
scale  of  the  Thing  was  no  common  oxide,  that 
the  yellowish-white  metal  that  gleamed  in  the 
crack  between  the  lid  and  the  cylinder  had  an 
unfamiliar  hue.  "  Extra-terrestrial "  had  no 
meaning  for  most  of  the  onlookers. 

22 


ON    HORSELL    COMMON 

At  that  time  it  was  quite  clear  in  my  own 
mind  that  the  Thing  had  come  from  the  planet 
Mars,  but  I  judged  it  improbable  that  it  con- 
tained any  living  creature.  I  thought  the  un- 
screwing might  be  automatic.  In  spite  of  Ogil- 
vy,  I  still  believed  that  there  were  men  in 
Mars.  My  mind  ran  fancifully  on  the  possi- 
bilities of  its  containing  manuscript,  on  the 
difficulties  in  translation  that  might  arise, 
whether  we  should  find  coins  and  models  in  it, 
and  so  forth.  Yet  it  was  a  little  too  large  for 
assurance  on  this  idea.  I  felt  an  impatience 
to  see  it  opened.  About  eleven,  as  nothing 
seemed  happening,  I  walked  back,  full  of  such 
thoughts,  to  my  home  in  Maybury.  But  I 
found  it  difficult  to  get  to  work  upon  my  ab- 
stract investigations. 

In  the  afternoon  the  appearance  of  the  com- 
mon had  altered  very  much.  The  early  edi- 
tions of  the  evening  papers  had  startled  Lon- 
don with  enormous  headlines  : 

"A  MESSAGE  RECEIVED  FROM  MARS/' 

"REMARKABLE  STORY   FROM  WOKING," 

and  so  forth.  In  addition,  Ogilvy's  wire  to  the 
Astronomical  Exchange  had  roused  every  ob- 
servatory in  the  three  kingdoms. 

23 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

There  were  half  a  dozen  flys  or  more  from 
the  Woking  station  standing  in  the  road  by  the 
sand-pits,  a  basket-chaise  from  Chobham,  and  a 
rather  lordly  carriage.  Besides  that,  there  was 
quite  a  heap  of  bicycles.  In  addition,  a  large 
number  of  people  must  have  walked,  in  spite  of 
the  heat  of  the  day,  from  Woking  and  Chert- 
sey,  so  that  there  was  altogether  quite  a  con- 
siderable crowd  —  one  or  two  gayly  dressed 
ladies  among  the  others. 

It  was  glaringly  hot,  not  a  cloud  in  the  sky, 
nor  a  breath  of  wind,  and  the  only  shadow  was 
that  of  the  few  scattered  pine-trees.  The 
burning  heather  had  been  extinguished,  but 
the  level  ground  towards  Ottershaw  was  black- 
ened as  far  as  one  could  see,  and  still  giving  off 
vertical  streamers  of  smoke.  An  enterprising 
sweet-stuff  dealer  in  the  Chobham  Road  had 
sent  up  his  son  with  a  barrow-load  of  green 
apples  and  ginger-beer. 

Going  to  the  edge  of  the  pit,  I  found  it  occu- 
pied by  a  group  of  about  half  a  dozen  men — 
Henderson,  Ogilvy,  and  a  tall,  fair-haired  man 
that  I  afterwards  learned  was  Stent,  the  As- 
tronomer Royal,  with  several  workmen  wield- 
ing spades  and  pickaxes.  Stent  was  giving 
directions  in  a  clear,  high-pitched  voice.  He 
was  standing  on  the  cylinder,  which  was  now 
evidently  much  cooler  ;  his  face  was  crimson 

24 


ON    HORSELL    COMMON 

and  streaming  with  perspiration,  and  some- 
thing seemed  to  have  irritated  him. 

A  large  portion  of  the  cylinder  had  been  un- 
covered, though  its  lower  end  was  still  em- 
bedded. As  soon  as  Ogilvy  saw  me  among  the 
staring  crowd  on  the  edge  of  the  pit  he  called 
to  me  to  come  down,  and  asked  me  if  I  would 
mind  going  over  to  see  Lord  Hilton,  the  lord 
of  the  manor. 

The  growing  crowd,  he  said,  was  becoming  a 
serious  impediment  to  their  excavations,  espe- 
cially the  boys.  They  wanted  a  light  railing 
put  up,  and  help  to  keep  the  people  back.  He 
told  me  that  a  faint  stirring  was  occasionally 
still  audible  within  the  case,  but  that  the  work- 
men had  failed  to  unscrew  the  top,  as  it  afford- 
ed no  grip  to  them.  The  case  appeared  to  be 
enormously  thick,  and  it  was  possible  that  the 
faint  sounds  we  heard  represented  a  noisy  tu- 
mult in  the  interior. 

I  was  very  glad  to  do  as  he  asked,  and  so 
become  one  of  the  privileged  spectators  within 
the  contemplated  enclosure.  I  failed  to  find 
Lord  Hilton  at  his  house,  but  I  was  told  he  was 
expected  from  London  by  the  six  o'clock  train 
from  Waterloo  ;  and  as  it  was  then  about  a 
quarter  past  five,  I  went  home,  had  some  tea, 
and  walked  up  to  the  station  to  waylay  him. 


IV 

THE   CYLINDER   UNSCREWS 

When  I  returned  to  the  common  the  sun 
was  setting.  Scattered  groups  were  hurrying 
from  the  direction  of  Woking,  and  one  or  two 
persons  were  returning.  The  crowd  about  the 
pit  had  increased,  and  stood  out  black  against 
the  lemon-yellow  of  the  sky — a  couple  of  hun- 
dred people,  perhaps.  There  were  a  number 
of  voices  raised,  and  some  sort  of  struggle  ap- 
peared to  be  going  on  about  the  pit.  Strange 
imaginings  passed  through  my  mind.  As  I 
drew  nearer  I  heard  Stent's  voice : 

"  Keep  back  !     Keep  back  l" 

A  boy  came  running  towards  me. 

"  It's  a-movin',''  he  said  to  me  as  he  passed 
— "  a-screwin'  and  a-screwin'  out.  I  don't  like 
it     I'm  a-goin'  'ome,  I  am." 

I  went  on  to  the  crowd.  There  were  really, 
I  should  think,  two  or  three  hundred  people 
elbowing  and  jostling  one  another,  the  one  or 
two  ladies  there  being  by  no  means  the  most 
active. 

26 


THE    CYLINDER    UNSCREWS 

"  He's  fallen  in  the  pit !"  cried  someone. 

"  Keep  back  !"  said  several. 

The  crowd  swayed  a  little,  and  I  elbowed 
my  way  through.  Every  one  seemed  greatly 
excited.  I  heard  a  peculiar  humming  sound 
from  the  pit. 

"  I  say !"  said  Ogilvy  ;  "  help  keep  these  idiots 
back.  We  don't  know  what's  in  the  confounded 
thing,  you  know  !" 

I  saw  a  young  man,  a  shop  assistant  in 
Woking  I  believe  he  was,  standing  on  the 
cylinder  and  trying  to  scramble  out  of  the 
hole  again.     The  crowd  had  pushed  him  in. 

The  end  of  the  cylinder  was  being  screwed 
out  from  within.  Nearly  two  feet  of  shining- 
screw  projected.  Somebody  blundered  against 
me,  and  I  narrowly  missed  being  pitched  on 
to  the  top  of  the  screw.  I  turned,  and  as  I 
did  so  the  screw  must  have  come  out,  and 
the  lid  of  the  cylinder  fell  upon  the  gravel 
with  a  ringing  concussion.  I  stuck  my  elbow 
into  the  person  behind  me,  and  turned  my 
head  towards  the  Thing  again.  For  a  moment 
that  circular  cavity  seemed  perfectly  black.  I 
had  the  sunset  in  my  eyes. 

I  think  every  one  expected  to  see  a  man 
emerge — possibly  something  a  little  unlike  us 
terrestrial  men,  but  in  all  essentials  a  man.  I 
know   I   did.     But,   looking,  I   presently   saw 

27 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

something  stirring  within  the  shadow:  gray- 
ish billowy  movements,  one  above  another,  and 
then  two  luminous  disks — like  eyes.  Then.some- 
thing  resembling  a  little  gray  snake,  about  the 
thickness  of  a  walking-stick,  coiled  up  out  of 
the  writhing  middle,  and  wriggled  in  the  air 
towards  me — and  then  another. 
'  A  sudden  chill  came  over  me.  There  was  a 
loud  shriek  from  a  woman  behind.  I  half 
turned,  keeping  my  eyes  fixed  upon  the  cyl- 
inder still,  from  which  other  tentacles  were 
now  projecting,  and  began  pushing  my  way 
back  from  the  edge  of  the  pit.  I  saw  aston- 
ishment giving  place  to  horror  on  the  faces  of 
the  people  about  me.  I  heard  inarticulate  ex- 
clamations on  all  sides.  There  was  a  general 
movement  backward.  I  saw  the  shopman 
struggling  still  on  the  edge  of  the  pit.  I  found 
myself  alone,  and  saw  the  people  on  the  other 
side  of  the  pit  running  off,  Stent  among  them. 
I  looked  again  at  the  cylinder,  and  ungovern- 
able terror  gripped  me.  I  stood  petrified  and 
staring. 

A  big  grayish,  rounded  bulk,  the  size,  per- 
haps, of  a  bear,  was  rising  slowly  and  painfully 
out  of  the  cylinder.  As  it  bulged  up  and 
caught  the  light,  it  glistened  like  wet  leather. 

Two  large  dark-colored  eyes  were  regarding 
me  steadfastly.     It  was  rounded,  and  had,  one 

28 


THE    CYLINDER    UNSCREWS 

might  say,  a  face.  There  was  a  mouth  under 
the  eyes,  the  lipless  brim  of  which  quivered 
and  panted,  and  dropped  saliva.  The  body 
heaved  and  pulsated  convulsively.  A  lank 
tentacular  appendage  gripped  the  edge  of  the 
cylinder,  another  swayed  in  the  air. 

Those  who  have  never  seen  a  living  Martian 
can  scarcely  imagine  the  strange  horror  of 
their  appearance.  The  peculiar  V  -  shaped 
mouth  with  its  pointed  upper  lip,  the  absence 
of  brow  ridges,  the  absence  of  a  chin  beneath 
the  wedge-like  lower  lip,  the  incessant  quiver- 
ing of  this  mouth,  the  Gorgon  groups  of  ten- 
tacles, the  tumultuous  breathing  of  the  lungs 
in  a  strange  atmosphere,  the  evident  heaviness 
and  painfulness  of  movement,  due  to  the  great- 
er gravitational  energy  of  the  earth — above 
all,  the  extraordinary  intensity  of  the  immense 
eyes — culminated  in  an  effect  akin  to  nausea. 
There  was  something  fungoid  in  the  oily 
brown  skin,  something  in  the  clumsy  delibera- 
tion of  their  tedious  movements  unspeakably 
terrible.  Even  at  this  first  encounter,  this 
first  glimpse,  I  was  overcome  with  disgust  and 
dread. 

Suddenly  the  monster  vanished.  It  had 
toppled  over  the  brim  of  the  cylinder  and  fall- 
en into  the  pit,  with  a  thud  like  the  fall  of  a 
great  mass  of  leather.     I  heard  it  give  a  pecul- 

29 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

iar  thick  cry,  and  forthwith  another  of  these 
creatures  appeared  darkly  in  the  deep  shadow 
of  the  aperture. 

At  that  my  rigor  of  terror  passed  away.  I 
turned  and,  running  madly,  made  for  the  first 
group  of  trees,  perhaps  a  hundred  yards  away  ; 
but  I  ran  slantingly  and  stumbling,  for  I  could 
not  avert  my  face  from  these  things. 

There,  among  some  young  pine-trees  and 
furze  bushes,  I  stopped,  panting,  and  waited 
further  developments.  The  common  round 
the  sand-pits  was  dotted  with  people,  standing, 
like  myself,  in  a  half-fascinated  terror,  staring 
at  these  creatures,  or,  rather,  at  the  heaped 
gravel  at  the  edge  of  the  pit  in  which  they  lay. 
And  then,  with  a  renewed  horror,  I  saw  a 
round,  black  object  bobbing  up  and  down  on 
the  edge  of  the  pit.  It  was  the  head  of  the 
shopman  who  had  fallen  in,  but  showing  as  a 
little  black  object  against  the  hot  western  sky. 
Now  he  got  his  shoulder  and  knee  up,  and 
again  he  seemed  to  slip  back  until  only  his 
head  was  visible.  Suddenly  he  vanished,  and  I 
could  have  fancied  a  faint  shriek  had  reached 
me.  I  had  a  momentary  impulse  to  go  back 
and  help  him  that  my  fears  overruled. 

Everything  was  then  quite  invisible,  hidden 
by  the  deep  pit  and  the  heap  of  sand  that  the 
fall  of  the  cylinder  had  made.     Any  one  coming 

30 


THE    CYLINDER    UNSCREWS 

along  the  road  from  Chobham  or  Woking  would 
have  been  amazed  at  the  sight — a  dwindling 
multitude  of  perhaps  a  hundred  people  or  more 
standing  in  a  great  irregular  circle,  in  ditches, 
behind  bushes,  behind  gates  and  hedges,  saying 
little  to  one  another,  and  that  in  short,  excited 
shouts,  and  staring,  staring  hard  at  a  few 
heaps  of  sand.  The  barrow  of  ginger -beer 
stood,  a  queer  derelict,  black  against  the  burn- 
ing sky,  and  in  the  sand-pits  was  a  row  of  de- 
serted vehicles  with  their  horses  feeding  out  of 
nose-bags  or  pawing  the  ground. 


THE   HEAT-RAT 

After  the  glimpse  I  had  had  of  the  Martians 
emerging  from  the  cylinder  in  which  they  had 
come  to  the  earth  from  their  planet,  a  kind  of 
fascination  paralyzed  my  actions.  I  remained 
standing  knee-deep  in  the  heather,  staring  at 
the  mound  that  hid  them.  I  was  a  battle- 
ground of  fear  and  curiosity. 

I  did  not  dare  to  go  back  towards  the  pit,  but 
I  felt  a  passionate  longing  to  peer  into  it.  I  be- 
gan walking,  therefore,  in  a  big  curve,  seeking 
some  point  of  vantage,  and  continually  looking 
at  the  sand-heaps  that  hid  these  new-comers  to 
our  earth.  Once  a  leash  of  thin  black  whips, 
like  the  arms  of  an  octopus,  flashed  across  the 
sunset  and  was  immediately  withdrawn,  and 
afterwards  a  fhin  rod  rose  up,  joint  by  joint, 
bearing  at  its  apex  a  circular  disk  that  spun 
with  a  wobbling  motion.  What  could  be  going 
on  there  ? 

Most  of  the  spectators  had  gathered  in  one 
or   two   groups — one   a   little   crowd   towards 

32 


THE    HEAT-RAY 

Woking,  the  other  a  knot  of  people  in  the 
direction  of  Chobham.  Evidently  they  shared 
my  mental  conflict.  There  were  few  near  me. 
One  man  I  approached — he  was,  I  perceived,  a 
neighbor  of  mine,  though  I  did  not  know  his 
name — and  accosted.  But  it  was  scarcely  a 
time  for  articulate  conversation. 

"  What  ugly  brutes  !''  he  said.  "  Good  God  ! 
what  ugly  brutes  !"  He  repeated  this  over 
and  over  again. 

"  Did  you  see  a  man  in  the  pit  ?"  I  said  ;  but 
he  made  me  no  answer  to  that.  We  became 
silent,  and  stood  watching  for  a  time  side  by 
side,  deriving,  I  fancy,  a  certain  comfort  in  one 
another's  company.  Then  I  shifted  my  posi- 
tion to  a  little  knoll  that  gave  me  the  advantage 
of  a  yard  or  more  of  elevation,  and  when  I 
looked  for  him  presently  he  was  walking  tow- 
ards Woking. 

The  sunset  faded  to  twilight  before  anything 
further  happened.  The  crowd  far  away  on  the 
left,  towards  Woking,  seemed  to  grow,  and  I 
heard  now  a  faint  murmur  from  it.  The  little 
knot  of  people  towards  Chobham  dispersed. 
There  was  scarcely  an  intimation  of  move- 
ment from  the  pit. 

It  was  this,  as  much  as  anything,  that  gave 
people  courage,  and  I  suppose  the  new  arrivals 
from  Woking  also  helped  to  restore  confidence. 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

At  any  rate,  as  the  dusk  came  on  a  slow,  in- 
termittent movement  upon  the  sand-pits  began, 
a  movement  that  seemed  to  gather  force  as 
the  stillness  of  the  evening  about  the  cylinder 
remained  unbroken.  Vertical  black  figures  in 
twos  and  threes  would  advance,  stop,  watch, 
and  advance  again,  spreading  out  as  they  did 
St)  in  a  thin  irregular  crescent  that  promised 
to  enclose  the  pit  in  its  attenuated  horns.  I, 
too,  on  my  side  began  to  move  towards  the 
pit. 

Then  I  saw  some  cabmen  and  others  had 
walked  boldly  into  the  sand-pits,  and  heard 
the  clatter  of  hoofs  and  the  gride  of  wheels. 
I  saw  a  lad  trundling  off  the  barrow  of  apples. 
And  then,  within  thirty  yards  of  the  pit,  ad- 
vancing from  the  direction  of  Horsell,  I  noted 
a  little  black  knot  of  men,  the  foremost  of 
whom  was  waving  a  white  flag. 

This  was  the  Deputation.  There  had  been 
a  hasty  consultation,  and,  since  the  Martians 
were  evidently,  in  spite  of  their  repulsive 
forms,  intelligent  creatures,  it  had  been  re- 
solved to  show  them,  by  approaching  them 
with  signals,  that  we,  too,  were  intelligent. 

Flutter,  flutter,  went  the  flag,  first  to  the 
right,  then  to  the  left.  It  was  too  far  for  me 
to  recognize  any  one  there,  but  afterwards  I 
learned   that    Ogilvy,  Stent,  and   Henderson 

34 


THE    HEAT-RAY 

^ere  with  others  in  this  attempt  at  communi- 
cation. This  little  group  had  in  its  advance 
dragged  inward,  so  to  speak,  the  circumference 
of  the  now  almost  complete  circle  of  people, 
and  a  number  of  dim  black  figures  followed  it 
at  discreet  distances. 

Suddenly  there  was  a  flash  of  light,  and  a 
quantity  of  luminous  greenish  smoke  came  out 
of  the  pit  in  three  distinct  puffs,  which  drove  up, 
one  after  the  other,  straight  into  the  still  air. 

This  smoke  (or  flame,  perhaps,  would  be  the 
better  word  for  it)  was  so  bright  that  the  deep 
blue  sky  overhead,  and  the  hazy  stretches  of 
brown  common  towards  Chertsey,  set  with 
black  pine-trees,  seemed  to  darken  abruptly 
as  these  puffs  arose,  and  to  remain  the  darker 
after  their  dispersal.  At  the  same  time  a  faint 
hissing  sound  became  audible. 

Beyond  the  pit  stood  the  little  wedge  of 
people,  with  the  white  flag  at  its  apex,  arrested 
hy  these  phenomena,  a  little  knot  of  small  ver- 
tical black  shapes  upon  the  black  ground.  As 
the  green  smoke  rose,  their  faces  flashed  out 
pallid  green,  and  faded  again  as  it  vanished. 
Then  slowly  the  hissing  passed  into  a  hum- 
ming, into  a  long,  loud,  droning  noise.  Slowly < 
a  humped  shape  rose  out  of  the  pit,  and  the 
ghost  of  a  beam  of  light  seemed  to  flicker  out 
from  it. 

35 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

Forthwith  flashes  of  actual  flame,  a  bright 
glare  leaping  from  one  to  another,  sprang  from 
the  scattered  group  of  men.  It  was  as  if  some 
invisible  jet  impinged  upon  them  and  flashed 
into  white  flame.  It  was  as  if  each  man  were 
suddenly  and  momentarily  turned  to  fire. 

Then,  by  the  light  of  their  own  destruction, 
I  saw  them  staggering  and  falling,  and  their 
supporters  turning  to  run. 

I  stood  staring,  not  as  yet  realizing  that  this 
was  death  leaping  from  man  to  man  in  that 
little  distant  crowd.  All  I  felt  was  that  it  was 
something  very  strange.  An  almost  noiseless 
and  blinding  flash  of  light,  and  a  man  fell  head- 
long and  lay  still ;  and  as  the  unseen  shaft  of 
heat  passed  over  them,  pine-trees  burst  into 
fire,  and  every  dry  furze-bush  became  with  one 
dull  thud  a  mass  of  flames.  And  far  away 
towards  Knaphill  I  saw  the  flashes  of  trees  and 
hedges  and  wooden  buildings  suddenly  set 
alight. 

It  was  sweeping  round  swiftly  and  steadily, 
this  flaming  death,  this  invisible,  inevitable 
sword  of  heat.  I  perceived  it  coming  towards 
me  by  the  flashing  bushes  it  touched,  and  was 
too  astounded  and  stupefied  to  stir.  I  heard 
the  crackle  of  fire  in  the  sand-pits  and  the  sud- 
den squeal  of  a  horse  that  was  as  suddenly 
stilled.     Then  it  was  as  if  an  invisible  yet  in- 

36 


THE    HEAT-RAY 

tensely  heated  finger  were  drawn  through  the 
heather  between  me  and  the  Martians,  and  all 
along  a  curving  line  beyond  the  sand-pits  the 
dark  ground  smoked  and  crackled.  Something 
fell  with  a  crash  far  away  to  the  left  where  the 
road  from  Woking  station  opens  out  on  the 
common.  Forthwith  the  hissing  and  humming 
ceased,  and  the  black,  dome-like  object  sank 
slowly  out  of  sight  into  the  pit. 

All  this  had  happened  with  such  swiftness 
that  I  had  stood  motionless,  dumfounded  and 
dazzled  by  the  flashes  of  light.  Had  that  death 
swept  through  a  full  circle,  it  must  inevitably 
have  slain  me  in  my  surprise.  But  it  passed 
and  spared  me,  and  left  the  night  about  me 
suddenly  dark  and  unfamiliar. 

The  undulating  common  seemed  now  dark 
almost  to  blackness,  except  where  its  roadways 
lay  gray  and  pale  under  the  deep-blue  sky  of 
the  early  night.  It  was  dark,  and  suddenly 
void  of  men.  Overhead  the  stars  were  muster- 
ing, and  in  the  west  the  sky  was  still  a  pale, 
bright,  almost  greenish  blue.  The  tops  of  the 
pine-trees  and  the  roofs  of  Horsell  came  out 
sharp  and  black  against  the  western  afterglow. 
The  Martians  and  their  appliances  were  alto- 
gether invisible,  save  for  that  thin  mast  upon 
which  their  restless  mirror  wobbled.  Patches 
of   bush    and    isolated   trees    here   and   there 

^7 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

smoked  and  glowed  still,  and  the  houses  towards 
Woking  station  were  sending  up  spires  of  flame 
into  the  stillness  of  the  evening  air. 

Nothing  was  changed  save  for  that  and  a  ter- 
rible astonishment.  The  little  group  of  black 
specks  with  the  flag  of  white  had  been  swept 
out  of  existence,  and  the  stillness  of  the  even- 
ing, so  it  seemed  to  me,  had  scarcely  been 
broken. 

It  came  to  me  that  I  was  upon  this  dark 
common,  helpless,  unprotected,  and  alone. 
Suddenly,  like  a  thing  falling  upon  me  from 
without,  came — Fear. 

With  an  effort  I  turned  and  began  a  stum- 
bling run  through  the  heather. 

The  fear  I  felt  was  no  rational  fear,  but  a 
panic  terror,  not  only  of  the  Martians,  but  of 
the  dusk  and  stillness  all  about  me.  Such  an 
extraordinary  effect  in  unmanning  me  it  had 
that  I  ran  weeping  silently  as  a  child  might  do. 
Once  I  had  turned,  I  did  not  dare  to  look  back. 

I  remember  I  felt  an  extraordinary  persuasion 
that  I  was  being  played  with,  that  presently, 
when  I  was  upon  the  very  verge  of  safety, 
this  mysterious  death — as  swift  as  the  passage 
of  light — would  leap  after  me  from  the  pit 
about  the  cylinder  and  strike  me  down. 


VI 

THE  HEAT-RAY  IN  THE  CHOBHAM  ROAD 

It  is  still  a  matter  of  wonder  how  the  Mar- 
tians are  able  to  slay  men  so  swiftly  and  so 
silently.  Many  think  that  in  some  way  they 
are  able  to  generate  an  intense  heat  in  a 
chamber  of  practically  absolute  non-conduc- 
tivity. This  intense  heat  they  project  in  a 
parallel  beam  against  any  object  they  choose 
by  means  of  a  polished  parabolic  mirror  of 
unknown  composition,  much  as  the  parabolic 
mirror  of  a  light-house  projects  a  beam  of  light. 
But  no  one  has  absolutely  proved  these  details. 
However  it  is  done,  it  is  certain  that  a  beam  of 
heat  is  the  essence  of  the  matter.  Heat,  and 
invisible,  instead  of  visible  light.  Whatever 
is  combustible  flashes  into  flame  at  its  touch, 
lead  runs  like  water,  it  softens  iron,  cracks 
and  melts  glass,  and,  when  it  falls  upon  water, 
incontinently  that  explodes  into  steam. 

That  night  nearly  forty  people  lay  under  the 
starlight  about  the  pit,  charred  and  distorted 
beyond   recognition,  and   all   night   long  the 

39 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

common  from  Horsell  to  Maybury  was  de- 
serted and  brightly  ablaze. 

The  news  of  the  massacre  probably  reached 
Chobham,  Woking,  and  Ottershaw  about  the 
same  time.  In  Woking  the  shops  had  closed 
when  the  tragedy  happened,  and  a  number  of 
people,  shop-people  and  so  forth,  attracted  by 
the  stories  they  had  heard,  were  walking  over 
Horsell  Bridge  and  along  the  road  between  the 
hedges  that  run  out  at  last  upon  the  common. 
You  may  imagine  the  young  people  brushed 
up  after  the  labors  of  the  day,  and  making  this 
novelty,  as  they  would  make  any  novelty,  the 
excuse  for  walking  together  and  enjoying  a 
trivial  flirtation.  You  may  figure  to  yourself 
the  hum  of  voices  along  the  road  in  the  gloam- 
ing. .  .  . 

As  yet,  of  course,  few  people  in  Woking  even 
knew  that  the  cylinder  had  opened,  though 
poor  Henderson  had  sent  a  messenger  on  a 
bicycle  to  the  post-office  with  a  special  wire 
to  an  evening  paper. 

As  these  folks  came  out  by  twos  and  threes 
upon  the  open,  they  found  little  knots  of  peo- 
ple talking  excitedly  and  peering  at  the  spin- 
ning mirror  over  the  sand-pits,  and  the  new- 
comers were,  no  doubt,  soon  infected  by  the 
excitement  of  the  occasion. 

By  half-past  eight,  when  the  Deputation  was 

40 


IN    THE    CHOBHAM    ROAD 

destroyed,  there  may  have  been  a  crowd  of 
three  hundred  people  or  more  at  this  place,  be- 
sides those  who  had  left  the  road  to  approach 
the  Martians  nearer.  There  were  three  po- 
licemen, too,  one  of  whom  was  mounted,  doing 
their  best,  under  instructions  from  Stent,  to 
keep  the  people  back  and  deter  them  from 
approaching  the  cylinder.  There  was  some 
booing  from  those  more  thoughtless  and  ex- 
citable souls  to  whom  a  crowd  is  always  an 
occasion  for  noise  and  horse-play. 

Stent  and  Ogilvy,  anticipating  some  pos- 
sibilities of  a  collision,  had  telegraphed  from 
Horsell  to  the  barracks  as  soon  as  the  Martians 
emerged,  for  the  help  of  a  company  of  soldiers 
to  protect  these  strange  creatures  from  vio- 
lence. After  that  they  returned  to  lead  that 
ill-fated  advance.  The  description  of  their 
death,  as  it  was  seen  by  the  crowd,  tallies  very 
closely  with  my  own  impressions  :  the  three 
puffs  of  green  smoke,  the  deep  humming  note, 
and  the  flashes  of  flame. 

But  that  crowd  of  people  had  a  far  narrower 
escape  than  mine.  Only  the  fact  that  a  hum- 
mock of  heathery  sand  intercepted  the  lower 
part  of  the  Heat-Ray  saved  them.  Had  the 
elevation  of  the  parabolic  mirror  been  a  few 
yards  higher^  none  could  have  lived  to  tell  the 
tale.     They  saw  the  flashes,  and  the  men  fall 

41 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

ing,  and  an  invisible  hand,  as  it  were,  lit  the 
bushes  as  it  hurried  towards  them  through  the 
twilight.  Then,  with  a  whistling  note  that 
rose  above  the  droning  of  the  pit,  the  beam 
swung  close  over  their  heads,  lighting  the  tops 
of  the  beech-trees  that  line  the  road,  and  split- 
ting the  bricks,  smashing  the  windows,  firing 
the  window  -  frames,  and  bringing  down  in 
crumbling  ruin  a  portion  of  the  gable  of  the 
house  nearest  the  corner. 

In  the  sudden  thud,  hiss,  and  glare  of  the 
igniting  trees,  the  panic-stricken  crowd  seems 
to  have  swayed  hesitatingly  for  some  mo- 
ments. Sparks  and  burning  twigs  began  to 
fall  into  the  road,  and  single  leaves,  like  puffs 
of  flame.  Hats  and  dresses  caught  fire.  Then 
came  a  crying  from  the  common.  There  were 
shrieks  and  shouts,  and  suddenly  a  mounted 
policeman  came  galloping  through  the  con- 
fusion with  his  hands  clasped  over  his  head, 
screaming. 

"They're  coming!"  a  woman  shrieked,  and 
incontinently  every  one  was  turning  and  push- 
ing at  those  behind,  in  order  to  clear  their  way 
to  Woking  again.  They  must  have  bolted  as 
blindly  as  a  flock  of  sheep.  Where  the  road 
grows  narrow  and  black  between  the  high 
banks  the  crowd  jammed,  and  a  desperate 
struggle   occurred.     All  that    crowd   did  not 

42 


IN  THE   CHOBHAM    ROAD 

escape;  three  persons  at  least,  two  women 
and  a  little  boy,  were  crushed  and  trampled 
there,  and  left  to  die  amid  the  terror  and  the 
darkness. 


VII 

HOW   I   REACHED   HOME 

For  my  own  part,  I  remember  nothing  of  my 
flight  except  the  stress  of  blundering  against 
trees  and  stumbling  through  the  heather.  All 
about  me  gathered  the  invisible  terrors  of  the 
Martians  ;  that  pitiless  sword  of  heat  seemed 
whirling  to  and  fro,  flourishing  overhead  be- 
fore it  descended  and  smote  me  out  of  life. 
I  came  into  the  road  between  the  cross-roads 
and  Horsell,  and  ran  along  this  to  the  cross- 
roads. 

At  last  I  could  go  no  farther ;  I  was  ex- 
hausted with  the  violence  of  my  emotion  and 
of  my  flight,  and  I  staggered  and  fell  by  the 
wayside.  That  was  near  the  bridge  that  cross- 
es the  canal  by  the  gas-works.  I  fell  and  lay 
still. 

I  must  have  remained  there  some  time. 

I  sat  up,  strangely  perplexed.  For  a  mo- 
ment, perhaps,  I  could  not  clearly  understand 
how  I  came  there.     My  terror  had  fallen  from 

44 


HOW    I    REACHED    HOME 

me  like  a  garment.  My  hat  had  gone,  and  my 
collar  had  burst  away  from  its  fastener.  A  few 
minutes  before  there  had  only  been  three  real 
things  before  me — the  immensity  of  the  night 
and  space  and  nature,  my  own  feebleness  and 
anguish,  and  the  near  approach  of  death.  Now 
it  was  as  if  something  turned  over,  and  the 
point  of  view  altered  abruptly.  There  was  no 
sensible  transition  from  one  state  of  mind  to 
the  other.  I  was  immediately  the  self  of 
every  day  again — a  decent,  ordinary  citizen. 
The  silent  common,  the  impulse  of  my  flight, 
the  starting  flames,  were  as  if  it  were  a  dream. 
I  asked  myself  had  these  latter  things  indeed 
happened  ?     I  could  not  credit  it. 

I  rose  and  walked  unsteadily  up  the  steep 
incline  of  the  bridge.  My  mind  was  blank 
wonder.  My  muscles  and  nerves  seemed 
drained  of  their  strength.  I  dare  say  I  stag- 
gered drunkenly.  A  head  rose  over  the  arch, 
and  the  figure  of  a  workman  carrying  a  bas- 
ket appeared.  Beside  him  ran  a  little  boy. 
He  passed  me,  wishing  me  good-night.  I  was 
minded  to  speak  to  him,  but  did  not.  I  an- 
swered his  greeting  with  a  meaningless  mum- 
ble and  went  on  over  the  bridge. 

Over  the  Maybury  arch  a  train,  a  billowing 
tumult  of  white,  firelit  smoke,  and  a  long 
caterpillar   of   lighted   windows,   went   flying 

4S 


THE   WAR  OF  THE  WORLDS 

south — clatter,  clatter,  clap,  rap,  and  it  had 
gone.  A  dim  group  of  people  talked  in  the 
gate  of  one  of  the  houses  in  the  pretty  little 
row  of  gables  that  was  called  Oriental  Ter- 
race. It  was  all  so  real  and  so  familiar.  And 
that  behind  me  !  It  was  frantic,  fantastic  ! 
Such  things,  I  told  myself,  could  not  be. 

Perhaps  I  am  a  man  of  exceptional  moods. 
I  do  not  know  how  far  my  experience  is  com- 
mon. At  times  I  suffer  from  the  strangest 
sense  of  detachment  from  myself  and  the 
world  about  me  ;  I  seem  to  watch  it  all  from 
the  outside,  from  somewhere  inconceivably  re- 
mote, out  of  time,  out  of  space,  out  of  the 
stress  and  tragedy  of  it  all.  This  feeling  was 
very  strong  upon  me  that  night.  Here  was 
another  side  to  my  dream. 

But  the  trouble  was  the  blank  incongruity 
of  this  serenity  and  the  swift  death  flying 
yonder,  not  two  miles  away.  There  was  a 
noise  of  business  from  the  gas-works,  and  the 
electric  -  lamps  were  all  alight.  I  stopped  at 
the  group  of  people. 

"  What  news  from  the  common  V  said  I. 

There  were  two  men  and  a  woman  at  the 
gate. 

"Eh ?"  said  one  of  the  men,  turning. 

"  What  news  from  the  common  ?"  I  said. 

**  'Ain't  yer  just  deen  there  ?"  asked  the  men- 

46 


HOW    I    REACHED    HOME 

"  People  seem  fair  silly  about  the  common," 
said  the  woman  over  the  gate.  "  What's  it  all 
abart  r 

"  Haven't  you  heard  of  the  men  from  Mars?" 
said  I — "  the  creatures  from  Mars  ?" 

"Quite  enough,"  said  the  woman  over  the 
gate.  "  Thenks ;"  and  all  three  of  them 
laughed. 

I  felt  foolish  and  angry.  I  tried  and  found 
I  could  not  tell  them  what  I  had  seen.  They 
laughed  again  at  my  broken  sentences. 

"You'll  hear  more  yet,"  I  said,  and  went  on 
to  my  home. 

I  startled  my  wife  at  the  doorway,  so  hag- 
gard was  I.  I  went  into  the  dining-room,  sat 
down,  drank  some  wine,  and  so  soon  as  I  could 
collect  myself  sufficiently  I  told  her  the  things 
I  had  seen.  The  dinner,  which  was  a  cold 
one,  had  already  been  served,  and  remained 
neglected  on  the  table  while  I  told  my 
story. 

"There  is  one  thing,"  I  said,  to  allay  the 
fears  I  had  aroused — "  they  are  the  most  slug- 
gish things  I  ever  saw  crawl.  They  may  keep 
the  pit  and  kill  people  who  come  near  them, 
but  they  cannot  get  out  of  it.  .  .  .  But  the 
horror  of  them  !" 

"  Don't,  dear  !"  said  my  wife,  knitting  her 
brows  and  putting  her  hand  on  mine. 

47 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

"Poor  Ogilvy !''  I  said.  "To  think  he  may 
be  lying  dead  there  !" 

My  wife  at  least  did  not  find  my  experience 
incredible.  When  I  saw  how  deadly  white  her 
face  was,  I  ceased  abruptly. 

"  They  may  come  here,"  she  said  again  and 
again. 

I  pressed  her  to  take  wine,  and  tried  to 
reassure  her. 

"  They  can  scarcely  move,*'  I  said. 

I  began  to  comfort  her  and  myself  by  re- 
peating all  that  Ogilvy  had  told  me  of  the  im- 
possibility of  the  Martians  establishing  them- 
selves on  the  earth.  In  particular  I  laid  stress 
on  the  gravitational  difficulty.  On  the  sur- 
face of  the  earth  the  force  of  gravity  is  three 
times  what  it  is  on  the  surface  of  Mars.  A  Mar- 
tian, therefore,  would  weigh  three  times  more 
than  on  Mars,  albeit  his  muscular  strength 
would  be  the  same.  His  own  body  would  be  a 
cope  of  lead  to  him,  therefore.  That,  indeed, 
was  the  general  opinion.  Both  the  Times  and 
the  Daily  Telegraphy  for  instance,  insisted  on 
it  the  next  morning,  and  both  overlooked, 
just  as  I  did,  two  obvious  modifying  influ- 
ences. 

The  atmosphere  of  the  earth,  we  now  know, 
contains  far  more  oxygen  or  far  less  argon 
(whichever  way  one  likes  to  put  it)  than  does 

48 


HOW    I    REACHED    HOME 

Mars.  The  invigorating  injfiuences  of  this 
excess  of  oxygen  upon  the  Martians  indisputa- 
bly did  much  to  counterbalance  the  increased 
weight  of  their  bodies.  And,  in  the  second 
place,  we  all  overlooked  the  fact  that  such 
mechanical  intelligence  as  the  Martian  pos- 
sessed was  quite  able  to  dispense  with  muscular 
exertion  at  a  pinch. 

But  I  did  not  consider  these  points  at  the 
time,  and  so  my  reasoning  was  dead  against 
the  chances  of  the  invaders.  With  wine  and 
food,  the  confidence  of  my  own  table,  and  the 
necessity  of  reassuring  my  wife,  I  grew,  by 
insensible  degrees,  courageous  and  secure. 

**They  have  done  a  foolish  thing,"  said  I, 
fingering  my  wineglass.  '^  They  are  dangerous, 
because,  no  doubt,  they  are  mad  with  terror. 
Perhaps  they  expected  to  find  no  living  things 
— certainly  no  intelligent  living  things. 

"A  shell  in  the  pit,"  said  I,  ^^if  the  worst 
comes  to  the  worst,  will  kill  them  all." 

The  intense  excitement  of  the  events  had  no 
doubt  left  my  perceptive  powers  in  a  state  of 
erethism.  I  remember  that  dinner-table  with 
extraordinary  vividness  even  now.  My  dear 
wife's  sweet,  anxious  face  peering  at  me  from 
under  the  pink  lamp-shade,  the  white  cloth 
with  its  silver  and  glass  table  furniture — for 
in  those  days  even  philosophical  writers  had 
D  49 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

many  little  luxuries — the  crimson-purple  wine 
in  my  glass,  are  photographically  distinct.  At 
the  end  of  it  I  sat,  tempering  nuts  with  a  cig- 
arette, regretting  Ogilvy's  rashness,  and  de. 
nouncing  the  short-sighted  timidity  of  the 
Martians. 

So  some  respectable  dodo  in  the  Mauritius 
might  have  lorded  it  in  his  nest,  and  discussed 
the  arrival  of  that  shipful  of  pitiless  sailors  in 
want  of  animal  food.  *^  We  will  peck  them  to 
death  to-morrow,  my  dear." 

I  did  not  know  it,  but  that  was  the  last 
civilized  dinner  I  was  to  eat  for  very  many 
strange  and  terrible  days. 


VIII 
FRIDAY   NIGHT 

The  most  extraordinary  thing,  to  my  mind, 
of  all  the  strange  and  wonderful  things  that 
happened  upon  that  Friday,  was  the  dovetail- 
ing of  the  commonplace  habits  of  our  social 
order  with  the  first  beginnings  of  the  series  of 
events  that  was  to  topple  that  social  order 
headlong.  If  on  Friday  night  you  had  taken 
a  pair  of  compasses  and  drawn  a  circle  with  a 
radius  of  five  miles  round  the  Woking  sand- 
pits, I  doubt  if  you  would  have  had  one  human 
being  outside  it,  unless  it  were  some  relation  of 
Stent  or  of  the  three  or  four  cyclists  or  London 
people  who  lay  dead  on  the  common,  whose 
emotions  or  habits  were  at  all  affected  by  the 
new-comers.  Many  people  had  heard  of  the 
cylinder,  of  course,  and  talked  about  it  in  their 
leisure,  but  it  certainly  did  not  make  the  sen- 
sation that  an  ultimatum  to  Germany  would 
have  done. 

In  London  that  night  poor  Henderson^s 
telegram  describing  the  gradual  unscrewing  of 

SI 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

the  shot  was  judged  to  be  a  canard,  and  his 
evening  paper,  after  wiring  for  authentication 
from  him  and  receiving  no  reply — the  man  was 
killed — decided  not  to  print  a  special  edition. 

Within  the  five-mile  circle  even  the  great 
majority  of  people  were  inert.  I  have  already 
described  the  behavior  of  the  men  and  women 
to  whom  I  spoke.  All  over  the  district  people 
were  dining  and  supping ;  working-men  were 
gardening  after  the  labors  of  the  day,  chil- 
dren were  being  put  to  bed,  young  people  were 
wandering  through  the  lanes  love  -  making, 
students  sat  over  their  books. 

Maybe  there  was  a  murmur  in  the  village 
streets,  a  novel  and  dominant  topic  in  the  pub- 
lic-houses, and  here  and  there  a  messenger,  or 
even  an  eye-witness  of  the  later  occurrences^ 
caused  a  whirl  of  excitement,  a  shouting,  and  a 
running  to  and  fro  ;  but  for  the  most  part  the 
daily  routine  of  working,  eating,  drinking, 
sleeping,  went  on  as  it  had  done  for  countless 
years — as  through  no  planet  Mars  existed  in 
the  sky.  Even  at  Woking  station  and  Horsell 
and  Chobham  that  was  the  case. 

In  Woking  junction,  until  a  late  hour,  trains 
were  stopping  and  going  on,  others  were  shunt- 
ing on  the  sidings,  passengers  were  alighting 
and  waiting,  and  everything  was  proceeding 
in  the  most  ordinary  way.     A  boy  from  the 

52 


FRIDAY    NIGHT 

town,  trenching  on  Smith's  monopoly,  was  sell- 
ing papers  with  the  afternoon's  news.  The 
ringing  and  impact  of  trucks,  the  sharp  whistle 
of  the  engines  from  the  junction,  mingled  with 
their  shouts  of  *' Men  from  Mars/'  Excited 
men  came  into  the  station  about  nine  o'clock 
with  incredible  tidings,  and  caused  no  more 
disturbance  than  drunkards  might  have  done. 
People  rattling  Londonwards  peered  into  the 
darkness  outside  the  carriage  windows  and 
saw  only  a  rare,  flickering,  vanishing  spark 
dance  up  from  the  direction  of  Horsell,  a  red 
glow  and  a  thin  veil  of  smoke  driving  across 
the  stars,  and  thought  that  nothing  more 
serious  than  a  heath  fire  was  happening.  It 
was  only  round  the  edge  of  the  common  that 
any  disturbance  was  perceptible.  There  were 
half  a  dozen  villas  burning  on  the  Woking 
border.  There  were  lights  in  all  the  houses 
on  the  common  side  of  the  three  villages,  and 
the  people  there  kept  awake  till  dawn. 

A  curious  crowd  lingered  restlessly,  people 
coming  and  going,  but  the  crowd  remaining, 
both  on  the  Chobham  and  Horsell  bridges. 
One  or  two  adventurous  souls,  it  was  after- 
wards found,  went  into  the  darkness  and 
crawled  quite  near  the  Martians  ;  but  they 
never  returned,  for  now  and  again  a  light-ray, 
like  the  beam  of  a  warship's  searchlight,  swept 

53 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

the  common,  and  the  Heat-Ray  was  ready  to 
follow.  Save  for  such,  that  big  area  of  com- 
mon was  silent  and  desolate,  and  the  charred 
bodies  lay  about  on  it  all  night  under  the  stars, 
and  all  the  next  day.  A  noise  of  hammering 
from  the  pit  was  heard  by  many  people. 

So  you  have  the  state  of  things  on  Friday 
night.  In  the  centre,  sticking  into  the  skin  of 
our  old  planet  Earth,  like  a  poisoned  dart,  was 
this  cylinder.  But  the  poison  was  scarcely 
working  yet.  Around  it  was  a  patch  of  silent 
common,  smouldering  in  places,  and  with  a  few 
dark,  dimly  seen  objects  lying  in  contorted 
attitudes  here  and  there.  Here  and  there  was 
a  burning  bush  or  tree.  Beyond  was  a  fringe 
of  excitement,  and  farther  than  that  fringe  the 
inflammation  had  not  crept  as  yet.  In  the  rest 
of  the  world  the  stream  of  life  still  flowed  as  it 
had  flowed  for  immemorial  years.  The  fever 
of  war  that  would  presently  clog  vein  and  ar- 
tery, deaden  nerve  and  destroy  brain,  had  still 
to  develop. 

All  night  long  the  Martians  were  hammering 
and  stirring,  sleepless,  indefatigable,  at  work 
upon  the  machines  they  were  making  ready, 
and  ever  and  again  a  puff  of  greenish-white 
smoke  whirled  up  to  the  starlit  sky. 

About  eleven  a  company  of  soldiers  came 
through  Horsell,  and  deployed  along  the  edge 

54 


FRIDAY    NIGHT 

of  the  common  to  form  a  cordon.  Later  a 
second  company  marched  through  Chobham 
to  deploy  on  the  north  side  of  the  common. 
Several  officers  from  the  Inkerman  barracks 
had  been  on  the  common  earlier  in  the  day, 
and  one,  Major  Eden,  was  reported  to  be  miss- 
ing. The  colonel  of  the  regiment  came  to  the 
Chobham  bridge  and  was  busy  questioning  the 
crowd  at  midnight.  The  military  authorities 
were  certainly  alive  to  the  seriousness  of  the 
business.  About  eleven,  the  next  morning^s 
papers  were  able  to  say,  a  squadron  of  hussars, 
two  Maxims,  and  about  four  hundred  men  of 
the  Cardigan  regiment  started  from  Aldershot. 
A  few  seconds  after  midnight  the  crowd  in 
the  Chertsey  road,  Woking,  saw  a  star  fall 
from  heaven  into  the  pine-woods  to  the  north- 
west. It  fell  with  a  greenish  light,  causing  a 
flash  of  light  like  summer  lightning.  This 
was  the  second  cylinder. 


IX 

THE  FIGHTING  BEGINS 

Saturday  lives  in  my  memory  as  a  day  of 
suspense.  It  was  a  day  of  lassitude,  too,  hot 
and  close,  with,  I  am  told,  a  rapidly  fluctuating 
barometer.  I  had  slept  but  little,  though  my 
wife  had  succeeded  in  sleeping,  and  I  rose 
early.  I  went  into  my  garden  before  break- 
fast, and  stood  listening,  but  towards  the  com- 
mon there  was  nothing  stirring  but  a  lark. 

The  milkman  came  as  usual.  I  heard  the 
rattle  of  his  chariot,  and  I  went  round  to  the 
side-gate  to  ask  the  latest  news.  He  told  me 
that  during  the  night  the  Martians  had  been 
surrounded  by  troops,  and  that  guns  were 
expected.  Then — a  familiar,  reassuring  note 
— I  heard  a  train  running  towards  Woking. 

"  They  aren't  to  be  killed,"  said  the  milkman, 
"  if  that  can  possibly  be  avoided." 

I  saw  my  neighbor  gardening,  chatted  with 
him  for  a  time,  and  then  strolled  in  to  break- 
fast. It  was  a  most  unexceptional  morning. 
My  neighbor  was  of  opinion  that  the  troops 

S6 


THE    FIGHTING    BEGINS 

would  be  able  to  capture  or  to  destroy  the 
Martians  during  the  day. 

"It's  a  pity  they  make  themselves  so  unap- 
proachable," he  said.  *'  It  would  be  curious  to 
learn  how  they  live  on  another  planet  ;  we 
might  learn  a  thing  or  two." 

He  came  up  to  the  fence  and  extended  a 
handful  of  strawberries,  for  his  gardening  was 
as  generous  as  it  was  enthusiastic.  At  the 
same  time  he  told  me  of  the  burning  of  the 
pine-woods  about  the  Byfleet  Golf  Links. 

"They  say,"  said  he,  "that  there's  another 
of  those  blessed  things  fallen  there — number 
two.  But  one's  enough,  surely.  This  lot  '11 
cost  the  insurance  people  a  pretty  penny  be- 
fore everything's  settled."  He  laughed  with 
an  air  of  the  greatest  good-humor  as  he  said 
this.  The  woods,  he  said,  were  still  burning, 
and  pointed  out  a  haze  of  smoke  to  me.  "  They 
will  be  hot  underfoot  for  days,  on  account  of 
the  thick  soil  of  pine-needles  and  turf,"  he 
said,  and  then  grew  serious  over  "poor  Ogilvy." 

After  breakfast,  instead  of  working,  I  de- 
cided to  walk  down  towards  the  common.  Un- 
der the  railway  bridge  I  found  a  group  of  sol- 
diers— sappers,  I  think,  men  in  small  round 
caps,  dirty  red  jackets  unbuttoned,  and  show- 
ing their  blue  shirts,  dark  trousers,  and  boots 
coming  to  the  calf.     They  told  me  no  one  was 

57 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

allowed  over  the  canal,  and,  looking  along  the 
road  towards  the  bridge,  I  saw  one  of  the  Car- 
digan men  standing  sentinel  there.  I  talked 
with  these  soldiers  for  a  time  ;  I  told  them  of 
my  sight  of  the  Martians  on  the  previous  even- 
ing. None  of  them  had  seen  the  Martians,  and 
they  had  but  the  vaguest  ideas  of  them,  so 
that  they  plied  me  with  questions.  They  said 
that  they  did  not  know  who  had  authorized 
the  movements  of  the  troops ;  their  idea  was 
that  a  dispute  had  arisen  at  the  Horse  Guards. 
The  ordinary  sapper  is  a  great  deal  better  ed- 
ucated than  the  common  soldier,  and  they  dis- 
cussed the  peculiar  conditions  of  the  possible 
fight  with  some  acuteness.  I  described  the 
Heat-Ray  to  them,  and  they  began  to  argue 
among  themselves. 

'*  Crawl  up  under  cover  and  rush  'em,  say 
I,"  said  one. 

"Get  aht!"  said  another.  "What*s  cover 
against  this  'ere  'eat  ?  Sticks  to  cook  yer  ! 
What  we  got  to  do  is  to  go  as  near  as  the 
ground  '11  let  us,  and  then  drive  a  trench." 

"  Blow  yer  trenches !  You  always  want 
trenches ;  you  ought  to  ha*  been  born  a  rab- 
bit, Snippy." 

"  'Ain't  they  got  any  necks,  then  ?"  said  a 
third,  abruptly  —  a  little,  contemplative,  dark 
man,  smoking  a  pipe. 

5S 


THE    FIGHTING    BEGINS 

I  repeated  my  description. 

"  Octopuses,"  said  he,  "  that's  what  I  calls 
'em.  Talk  about  fishers  of  men — fighters  of 
fish  it  is  this  time  !'* 

"  It  ain't  no  murder  killing  beasts  like  that," 
said  the  first  speaker. 

"  Why  not  shell  the  darned  things  strite  off 
and  finish  'em?"  said  the  little  dark  man. 
"  You  earn  tell  what  they  might  do." 

"  Where's  your  shells  ?"  said  the  first  speak- 
er. "There  ain't  no  time.  Do  it  in  a  rush, 
that's  my  tip,  and  do  it  at  once." 

So  they  discussed  it.  After  a  while  I  left 
them,  and  went  on  to  the  railway  station  to 
get  as  many  morning  papers  as  I  could. 

But  I  will  not  weary  the  reader  with  a  dis- 
cussion of  that  long  morning  and  of  the  long- 
er afternoon.  I  did  not  succeed  in  getting  a 
glimpse  of  the  common,  for  even  Horsell  and 
Chobham  church  towers  were  in  the  hands  of 
the  military  authorities.  The  soldiers  I  ad- 
dressed didn't  know  anything ;  the  officers 
were  mysterious  as  well  as  busy.  I  found  peo- 
ple in  the  town  quite  secure  again  in  the  pres- 
ence of  the  military,  and  I  heard  for  the  first 
time  from  Marshall,  the  tobacconist,  that  his 
son  was  among  the  dead  on  the  common.  The 
soldiers  had  made  the  people  on  the  outskirts 
of  Horsell  lock  up  and  leave  their  houses. 

59 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

I  got  back  to  lunch  about  two,  very  tired, 
for,  as  I  have  said,  the  day  was  extremely  hot 
and  dull,  and  in  order  to  refresh  myself  I  took 
a  cold  bath  in  the  afternoon.  About  half -past 
four  I  went  up  to  the  railway  station  to  get 
an  evening  paper,  for  the  morning  papers  had 
contained  only  a  very  inaccurate  description 
of  the  killing  of  Stent,  Henderson,  Ogilvy,  and 
the  others.  But  there  was  little  I  didn't  know. 
The  Martians  did  not  show  an  inch  of  them- 
selves. They  seemed  busy  in  their  pit,  and 
there  was  a  sound  of  hammering  and  an  al- 
most continuous  streamer  of  smoke.  Appar- 
ently they  were  busy  getting  ready  for  a 
struggle.  "Fresh  attempts  have  been  made 
to  signal,  but  without  success,"  was  the  stereo- 
typed formula  of  the  papers.  A  sapper  told 
me  it  was  done  by  a  man  in  a  ditch  with  a  flag 
on  a  long  pole.  The  Martians  took  as  much 
notice  of  such  advances  as  we  should  of  the 
lowing  of  a  cow. 

I  must  confess  the  sight  of  all  this  arma- 
ment, all  this  preparation,  greatly  excited  me. 
My  imagination  became  belligerent,  and  de- 
feated the  invaders  in  a  dozen  striking  ways ; 
something  of  my  school-boy  dreams  of  battle 
and  heroism  came  back.  It  hardly  seemed  a 
fair  fight  to  me  at  that  time.  They  seemed 
very  helpless  in  that  pit  of  theirs. 

60 


THE    FIGHTING    BEGINS 

About  three  o'clock  there  began  the  thud  of 
a  gun  at  measured  intervals  from  Chertsey  or 
Addlestone.  I  learned  that  the  smouldering 
pine-wood  into  which  the  second  cylinder  had 
fallen  was  being  shelled,  in  the  hope  of  destroy- 
ing that  object  before  it  opened.  It  was  only 
about  five,  however,  that  a  field-gun  reached 
Chobham  for  use  against  the  first  body  of 
Martians. 

About  six  in  the  evening,  as  I  sat  at  tea  with 
my  wife  in  the  summer-house  talking  vigorous- 
ly about  the  battle  that  was  lowering  upon  us^ 
I  heard  a  muffled  detonation  from  the  common, 
and  immediately  after  a  gust  of  firing.  Close 
on  the  heels  of  that  came  a  violent,  rattling 
crash,  quite  close  to  us,  that  shook  the  ground  ; 
and,  starting  out  upon  the  lawn,  I  saw  the  tops 
of  the  trees  about  the  Oriental  College  burst 
into  smoky  •red  flame,  and  the  tower  of  the 
little  church  beside  it  slide  down  into  ruin. 
The  pinnacle  of  the  mosque  had  vanished,  and 
the  roof-line  of  the  college  itself  looked  as  if  a 
hundred-ton  gun  had  been  at  work  upon  it. 
One  of  our  chimneys  cracked  as  if  a  shot  had 
hit  it,  flew,  and  a  piece  of  it  came  clattering 
down  the  tiles  and  made  a  heap  of  broken  red 
fragments  upon  the  flower-bed  by  my  study 
window. 

I  and  my  wife  stood  amazed.    Then  I  real- 

6i 


\ 

THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

ized  that  the  crest  of  Maybury  Hill  must  be 
within  range  of  the  Martians'  Heat-Ray  now 
that  the  college  was  cleared  out  of  the  way. 

At  that  I  gripped  my  wife's  arm,  and  with- 
out ceremony  ran  her  out  into  the  road.  Then 
I  fetched  out  the  servant,  telling  her  I  would 
go  up-stairs  myself  for  the  box  she  was  clam- 
oring for. 

"We  can't  possibly  stay  here,"  I  said  ;  and 
as  I  spoke  the  firing  reopened  for  a  moment 
upon  the  common. 

"  But  where  are  we  to  go  ?"  said  my  wife  in 
terror. 

I  thought,  perplexed.  Then  I  remembered 
her  cousins  at  Leatherhead. 

"  Leatherhead  !"  I  shouted  above  the  sudden 
noise. 

She  looked  away  from  me  downhill.  The 
people  were  coming  out  of  their  houses  as- 
tonished. 

"  How  are  we  to  get  to  Leatherhead?"  she  said. 

Down  the  hill  I  saw  a  bevy  of  hussars  ride 
under  the  railway  bridge ;  three  galloped 
through  the  open  gates  of  the  Oriental  Col- 
lege ;  two  others  dismounted,  and  began  run- 
ning from  house  to  house.  The  sun,  shining 
through  the  smoke  that  drove  up  from  the 
tops  of  the  trees,  seemed  blood-red,  and  threw 
an  unfamiliar  lurid  light  upon  everything. 

C2 


THE    FIGHTING    BEGINS 

"Stop  here,"  said  I;  "you  are  safe  here  ;'* 
and  I  started  off  at  once  for  the  Spotted  Dog, 
for  I  knew  the  landlord  had  a  horse  and  dog- 
cart. I  ran,  for  I  perceived  that  in  a  moment 
every  one  upon  this  side  of  the  hill  would  be 
moving.  I  found  him  in  his  bar,  quite  un- 
aware of  what  was  going  on  behind  his  house. 
A  man  stood  with  his  back  to  me,  talking  to 
him. 

"  I  must  have  a  pound,"  said  the  landlord, 
"  and  I've  no  one  to  drive  it." 

"  I'll  give  you  two,"  said  I,  over  the  stran- 
ger's shoulder. 

"  What  for  ?" 

"And  I'll  bring  it  back  by  midnight,"  I  said. 

"  Lord  !"  said  the  landlord ;  "  what's  the 
hurry?  I'm  selling  my  bit  of  a  pig.  Two 
pounds,  and  you  bring  it  back  ?  What's  going 
on  now  ?" 

I  explained  hastily  that  I  had  to  leave  my 
home,  and  so  secured  the  dog-cart.  At  the 
time  it  did  not  seem  to  me  nearly  so  urgent 
that  the  landlord  should  leave  his.  I  took  care 
to  have  the  cart  there  and  then,  drove  it  off 
down  the  road,  and,  leaving  it  in  charge  of  my 
wife  and  servant,  rushed  into  my  house  and 
packed  a  few  valuables,  such  plate  as  we  had, 
and  so  forth.  The  beech-trees  below  the  house 
were  burning  while  I  did  this,  and  the  palings 

63 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

up  the  road  glowed  red.  While  I  was  occu- 
pied in  this  way,  one  of  the  dismounted  hus- 
sars came  running  up.  He  was  going  from 
house  to  house,  warning  people  to  leave.  He 
was  going  on  as  I  came  out  of  my  front-door, 
lugging  my  treasures,  done  up  in  a  table-cloth. 
I  shouted  after  him  : 

"What  news?" 

He  turned,  stared,  bawled  something  about 
"  crawling  out  in  a  thing  like  a  dish  cover,'' 
and  ran  on  to  the  gate  of  the  house  at  the 
crest.  A  sudden  whirl  of  black  smoke  driv- 
ing across  the  road  hid  him  for  a  moment.  I 
ran  to  my  neighbor's  door,  and  rapped  to  sat- 
isfy myself,  what  I  already  knew,  that  his  wife 
had  gone  to  London  with  him,  and  had  locked 
up  their  house.  I  went  in  again,  according  to 
my  promise,  to  get  my  servant's  box,  lugged  it 
out,  clapped  it  beside  her  on  the  tail  of  the 
dog-cart,  and  then  caught  the  reins  and  jumped 
up  into  the  driver's  seat  beside  my  wife.  In 
another  moment  we  were  clear  of  the  smoke 
and  noise,  and  spanking  down  the  opposite 
slope  of  Maybury  Hill  towards  Old  Woking. 

In  front  was  a  quiet,  sunny  landscape,  a 
wheat-field  ahead  on  either  side  of  the  road, 
and  the  Maybury  Inn  with  its  swinging  sign. 
I  saw  the  doctor's  cart  ahead  of  me.  At  the 
bottom  of  the  hill  I  turned  my  head  to  look  at 

64 


THE    FIGHTING    BEGINS 

the  hill-side  I  was  leaving.  Thick  streamers  of 
black  smoke  shot  with  threads  of  red  fire  were 
driving  up  into  the  still  air,  and  throwing  dark 
shadows  upon  the  green  tree -tops  eastward. 
The  smoke  already  extended  far  away  to  the 
east  and  west — to  the  Byfleet  pine-woods  east- 
ward, and  to  Woking  on  the  west.  The  road 
was  dotted  with  people  running  towards  us. 
And  very  faint  now,  but  very  distinct  through 
the  hot,  quiet  air,  one  heard  the  whirr  of  a 
machine-gun  that  was  presently  stilled,  and 
an  intermittent  cracking  of  rifles.  Apparent- 
ly the  Martians  were  setting  fire  to  everything 
within  range  of  their  Heat-Ray. 

I  am  not  an  expert  driver,  and  I  had  imme- 
diately to  turn  my  attention  to  the  horse. 
When  I  looked  back  again  the  second  hill  had 
hidden  the  black  smoke.  I  slashed  the  horse 
with  the  whip,  and  gave  him  a  loose  rein  until 
Woking  and  Send  lay  between  us  and  that 
quivering  tumult.  I  overtook  and  passed  the 
doctor  between  Woking  and  Send. 


IN  THE  STORM 

Leatherhead  is  about  twelve  miles  from 
Maybury  Hill.  The  scent  of  hay  was  in  the 
air  through  the  lush  meadows  beyond  Pyrford, 
and  the  hedges  on  either  side  were  sweet  and 
gay  with  multitudes  of  dog-roses.  The  heavy 
firing  that  had  broken  out  while  we  were  driv- 
ing down  Maybury  Hill  ceased  as  abruptly  as 
it  began,  leaving  the  evening  very  peaceful 
and  still.  We  got  to  Leatherhead  without 
misadventure  about  nine  o'clock,  and  the  horse 
had  an  hour's  rest  while  I  took  supper  with 
my  cousins  and  commended  my  wife  to  their 
care. 

My  wife  was  curiously  silent  throughout  the 
drive,  and  seemed  oppressed  with  forebodings 
of  evil.  I  talked  to  her  reassuringly,  pointing 
out  that  the  Martians  were  tied  to  the  pit  by 
sheer  heaviness,  and,  at  the  utmost,  could  but 
crawl  a  little  out  of  it ;  but  she  answered  only 
in  monosyllables.  Had  it  not  been  for  my 
promise  to  the  innkeeper,  she  would,  I  think, 

66 


IN    THE    STORM 

have  urged  me  to  stay  in  Leatherhead  that 
night.  Would  that  I  had  !  Her  face,  I  re- 
member, was  very  white  as  we  parted. 

For  my  own  part,  I  have  been  feverishly  ex- 
cited all  day.  Something  very  like  the  war- 
fever  that  occasionally  runs  through  a  civil- 
ized community  had  got  into  my  blood,  and 
in  my  heart  I  was  not  so  very  sorry  that  I  had 
to  return  to  Maybury  that  night.  I  was  even 
afraid  that  that  last  fusillade  I  had  heard  might 
mean  the  extermination  of  our  invaders  from 
Mars.  I  can  best  express  my  state  of  mind  by 
saying  that  I  wanted  to  be  in  at  the  death. 

It  was  nearly  eleven  when  I  started  to  re- 
turn. The  night  was  unexpectedly  dark  ;  to 
me,  walking  out  of  the  lighted  passage  of  my 
cousins'  house,  it  seemed  indeed  black,  and  it 
was  as  hot  and  close  as  the  day.  Overhead  the 
clouds  were  driving  fast,  albeit  not  a  breath 
stirred  the  shrubs  about  us.  My  cousins'  man 
lit  both  lamps.  Happily,  I  knew  the  road  in- 
timately. My  wife  stood  in  the  light  of  the 
doorway,  and  watched  me  until  I  jumped  up 
into  the  dog-cart.  Then  abruptly  she  turned 
and  went  in,  leaving  my  cousins  side  by  side 
wishing  me  good  hap. 

I  was  a  little  depressed  at  first  with  the  con- 
tagion of  my  wife's  fears,  but  very  soon  my 
thoughts  reverted  to  the  Martians.     At  that 

67 


THE    WAR    OF   THE    WORLDS 

time  I  was  absolutely  in  the  dark  as  to  the 
course  of  the  evening's  fighting.  I  did  not 
know  even  the  circumstances  that  had  pre- 
cipitated the  conflict.  As  I  came  through 
Ockham  (for  that  was  the  way  I  returned, 
and  not  through  Send  and  Old  Woking)  I  saw 
along  the  western  horizon  a  blood  -  red  glow, 
which,  as  I  drew  nearer,  crept  slowly  up  the 
sky.  The  driving  clouds  of  the  gathering 
thunder-storm  mingled  there  with  masses  of 
black  and  red  smoke. 

Ripley  Street  was  deserted,  and  except  for  a 
lighted  window  or  so  the  village  showed  not  a 
sign  of  life  ;  but  I  narrowly  escaped  an  acci- 
dent at  the  corner  of  the  road  to  Pyrford, 
where  a  knot  of  people  stood  with  their  backs 
to  me.  They  said  nothing  to  me  as  I  passed. 
I  do  not  know  what  they  knew  of  the  things 
happening  beyond  the  hill,  nor  do  I  know  if 
the  silent  houses  I  passed  on  my  way  were 
sleeping  securely,  or  deserted  and  empty,  or 
harassed  and  watching  against  the  terror  of 
the  night. 

From  Ripley  until  I  came  through  Pyrford  I 
was  in  the  valley  of  the  Wey,  and  the  red  glare 
was  hidden  from  me.  As  I  ascended  the  little 
hill  beyond  Pyrford  Church  the  glare  came  into 
view  again,  and  the  trees  about  me  shivered 
with  the  first  intimation  of  the  storm  that  was 

6S 


IN    THE    STORM 

upon  me.  Then  I  heard  midnight  pealing  out 
from  Pyrford  Church  behind  me,  and  then  came 
the  silhouette  of  Maybury  Hill,  with  its  tree- 
tops  and  roofs  black  and  sharp  against  the  red. 

Even  as  I  beheld  this  a  lurid  green  glare  lit 
the  road  about  me  and  showed  the  distant 
woods  towards  Addlestone.  I  felt  a  tug  at  the 
reins.  I  saw  that  the  driving  clouds  had  been 
pierced  as  it  were  by  a  thread  of  green  fire, 
suddenly  lighting  their  confusion  and  falling 
into  the  fields  to  my  left.  It  was  the  Third 
Falling-Star  ! 

Close  on  its  apparition,  and  blindingly  violet 
by  contrast,  danced  out  the  first  lightning  of 
the  gathering  storm,  and  the  thunder  burst 
like  a  rocket  overhead.  The  horse  took  the  bit 
between  his  teeth  and  bolted. 

A  moderate  incline  runs  down  towards  the 
foot  of  Maybury  Hill,  and  down  this  we  clat- 
tered. Once  the  lightning  had  begun,  it  went 
on  in  as  rapid  a  succession  of  flashes  as  I  have 
ever  seen.  The  thunder-claps,  treading  one  on 
the  heels  of  another  and  with  a  strange  crack- 
ling accompaniment,  sounded  more  like  the 
working  of  a  gigantic  electric  machine  than 
the  usual  detonating  reverberations.  The 
flickering  light  was  blinding  and  confusing, 
and  a  thin  hail  smote  gustily  at  my  face  as  I 
drove  down  the  slope. 

69 


THE    WAR    OF   THE    WORLDS 

At  first  I  regarded  little  but  the  road  before 
me,  and  then  abruptly  my  attention  was  ar- 
rested by  something  that  was  moving  rapidly 
down  the  opposite  slope  of  Maybury  Hill.  At 
first  I  took  it  for  the  wet  roof  of  a  house,  but 
one  flash  following  another  showed  it  to  be 
in  swift  rolling  movement.  It  was  an  elusive 
vision — a  moment  of  bewildering  darkness,  and 
then,  in  a  flash  like  daylight,  the  red  masses  of 
the  Orphanage  near  the  crest  of  the  hill,  the 
green  tops  of  the  pine-trees,  and  this  problemat- 
ical object  came  out  clear  and  sharp  and  bright. 
And  this  Thing  I  saw  !  How  can  I  describe 
it?  A  monstrous  tripod,  higher  than  many 
houses,  striding  over  the  young  pine-trees,  and 
smashing  them  aside  in  its  career  ;  a  walking 
engine  of  glittering  metal,  striding  now  across 
the  heather ;  articulate  ropes  of  steel  dangling 
from  it,  and  the  clattering  tumult  of  its  pas- 
sage mingling  with  the  riot  of  the  thunder.  A 
flash,  and  it  came  out  vividly,  heeling  over  one 
way  with  two  feet  in  the  air,  to  vanish  and 
reappear  almost  instantly  as  it  seemed,  with 
the  next  flash,  a  hundred  yards  nearer.  Can 
you  imagine  a  milking-stool  tilted  and  bowled 
violently  along  the  ground?  That  was  the 
impression  those  instant  flashes  gave.  But  in- 
stead of  a  milking-stool  imagine  it  a  great 
body  of  machinery  on  a  tripod  stand. 
'  70 


IN    THE    STORM 

Then  suddenly  the  trees  in  the  pine-wood 
ahead  of  me  were  parted,  as  brittle  reeds  are 
parted  by  a  man  thrusting  through  them ;  they 
were  snapped  off  and  driven  headlong,  and  a 
second  huge  tripod  appeared,  rushing,  as  it 
seemed,  headlong  towards  me.  And  I  was 
galloping  hard  to  meet  it  !  At  the  sight  of  the 
second  monster  my  nerve  went  altogether. 
Not  stopping  to  look  again,  I  wrenched  the 
horse's  head  hard  round  to  the  right,  and  in 
another  moment  the  dog-cart  had  heeled  over 
upon  the  horse  ;  the  shafts  smashed  noisily,  and 
I  was  flung  sideways  and  fell  heavily  into  a 
shallow  pool  of  water. 

I  crawled  out  almost  immediately,  and 
crouched,  my  feet  still  in  the  water,  under  a 
clump  of  furze.  The  horse  lay  motionless  (his 
neck  was  broken,  poor  brute  !)  and  by  the  light- 
ning flashes  I  saw  the  black  bulk  of  the  over- 
turned dog-cart  and  the  silhouette  of  the  wheel 
still  spinning  slowly.  In  another  moment  the 
colossal  mechanism  went  striding  by  me,  and 
passed  uphill  towards  Pyrford. 

Seen  nearer, the  Thing  was  incredibly  strange, 
for  it  was  no  mere  insensate  machine  driving 
on  its  way.  Machine  it  was,  with  a  ringing 
metallic  pace,  and  long,  flexible,  glittering  ten- 
tacles (one  of  which  gripped  a  young  pine-tree) 
swinging  and  rattling  about  its  strange  body. 

n 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

It  picked  its  road  as  it  went  striding  along, 
and  the  brazen  hood  that  surmounted  it  moved 
to  and  fro  with  the  inevitable  suggestion  of  a 
head  looking  about  it.  Behind  the  main  body 
was  a  huge  mass  of  white  metal  like  a  gigantic 
fisherman's  basket,  and  puffs  of  green  smoke 
squirted  out  from  the  joints  of  the  limbs  as 
the  monster  swept  by  me.  And  in  an  instant 
it  was  gone. 

So  much  I  saw  then,  all  vaguely  for  the 
flickering  of  the  lightning,  in  blinding  high 
lights  and  dense  black  shadows. 

As  it  passed  it  set  up  an  exultant  deafen- 
ing howl  that  drowned  the  thunder — ''Aloo  ! 
aloo  !" — and  in  another  minute  it  was  with  its 
companion,  half  a  mile  away,  stooping  over 
something'  in  the  field.  I  have  no  doubt  this 
Thing  in  the  field  was  the  third  of  the  ten 
cylinders  they  had  fired  at  us  from  Mars. 

For  some  minutes  I  lay  there  in  the  rain  and 
darkness  watching,  by  the  intermittent  light, 
these  monstrous  beings  of  metal  moving  about 
in  the  distance  over  the  hedge-tops.  A  thin 
hail  was  now  beginning,  and  as  it  came  and 
went  their  figures  grew  misty  and  then  flashed 
into  clearness  again.  Now  and  then  came  a 
gap  in  the  lightning,  and  the  night  swallowed 
them  up. 

I  was  soaked  with  hail  above  and  puddle- 

72 


IN    THE    STORM 

water  below.  It  was  some  time  before  my 
blank  astonishment  would  let  me  struggle  up 
the  bank  to  a  drier  position,  or  think  at  all  of 
my  imminent  peril. 

Not  far  from  me  was  a  little  one -roomed 
squatter's  hut  of  wood,  surrounded  by  a  patch 
of  potato-garden.  I  struggled  to  my  feet  at 
last,  and,  crouching  and  making  use  of  every 
chance  of  cover,  I  made  a  run  for  this.  I  ham- 
mered at  the  door,  but  I  could  not  make  the 
people  hear  (if  there  were  any  people  inside), 
and  after  a  time  I  desisted,  and,  availing  my- 
self of  a  ditch  for  the  greater  part  of  the  way, 
succeeded  in  crawling,  unobserved  by  these 
monstrous  machines,  into  the  pine-wood  tow- 
ards Maybury. 

Under  cover  of  this  I  pushed  on,  wet  and 
shivering  now,  towards  my  own  house,  I 
walked  among  the  trees  trying  to  find  the 
footpath.  It  was  very  dark  indeed  in  the 
wood,  for  the  lightning  was  now  becoming  in- 
frequent, and  the  hail,  which  was  pouring  down 
in  a  torrent,  fell  in  columns  through  the  gaps 
in  the  heavy  foliage. 

If  I  had  fully  realized  the  meaning  of  all  the 
things  I  had  seen  I  should  have  immediately 
worked  my  way  round  through  Byfleet  to 
Street  Chobham,  and  so  gone  back  to  rejoin 
my  wife  at  Leatherhead.      But  that  night  the 

73 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

strangeness  of  things  about  me,  and  my  phys- 
ical wretchedness,  prevented  me,  for  I  was 
bruised,  weary,  wet  to  the  skin,  deafened  and 
blinded  by  the  storm. 

I  had  a  vague  idea  of  going  on  to  my  own 
house,  and  that  was  as  much  motive  as  I  had. 
I  staggered  through  the  trees,  fell  into  a  ditch 
and  bruised  my  knees  against  a  plank,  and 
finally  splashed  out  into  the  lane  that  ran  down 
from  the  College  Arms.  I  say  splashed,  for 
the  storm  water  was  sweeping  the  sand  down 
the  hill  in  a  muddy  torrent.  There  in  the 
darkness  a  man  blundered  into  me  and  sent 
me  reeling  back. 

He  gave  a  cry  of  terror,  sprang  sideways, 
and  rushed  on  before  I  could  gather  my  wits 
sufficiently  to  speak  to  him.  So  heavy  was  the 
stress  of  the  storm  just  at  this  place  that  I  had 
the  hardest  task  to  win  my  way  up  the  hill.  I 
went  close  up  to  the  fence  on  the  left  and 
worked  my  way  along  its  palings. 

Near  the  top  I  stumbled  upon  something 
soft,  and,  by  a  flash  of  lightning,  saw  between 
my  feet  a  heap  of  black  broadcloth  and  a  pair 
of  boots.  Before  I  could  distinguish  clearly 
how  the  man  lay,  the  flicker  of  light  had  passed. 
I  stood  over  him  waiting  for  the  next  flash. 
When  it  came,  I  saw  that  he  was  a  sturdy  man, 
cheaply   but   not   shabbily  dressed  ;  his   head 

74 


IN    THE    STORM 

was  bent  under  his  body,  and  he  lay  crumpled 
up  close  to  the  fence,  as  though  he  had  been 
flung  violently  against  it. 

Overcoming  the  repugnance  natural  to  one 
who  had  never  before  touched  a  dead  body,  I 
stooped  and  turned  him  over  to  feel  for  his 
heart.  He  was  quite  dead.  Apparently  his 
neck  had  been  broken.  The  lightning  flashed 
for  a  third  time,  and  his  face  leaped  upon  me. 
I  sprang  to  my  feet.  It  was  the  landlord 
of  the  Spotted  Dog,  whose  conveyance  I  had 
taken. 

I  stepped  over  him  gingerly  and  pushed  on 
up  the  hill.  I  made  my  way  by  the  police- 
station  and  the  College  Arms  towards  my  own 
house.  Nothing  was  burning  on  the  hill-side, 
though  from  the  common  there  still  came  a 
red  glare  and  a  rolling  tumult  of  ruddy  smoke 
beating  up  against  the  drenching  hail.  So  far 
as  I  could  see  by  the  flashes,  the  houses  about 
me  were  mostly  uninjured.  By  the  College 
Arms  a  dark  heap  lay  in  the  road. 

Down  the  road  towards  Maybury  Bridge 
there  were  voices  and  the  sound  of  feet,  but  I 
had  not  the  courage  to  shout  or  to  go  to  them. 
I  let  myself  in  with  my  latch-key,  closed,  lock- 
ed and  bolted  the  door,  staggered  to  the  foot 
of  the  staircase,  and  sat  down.  My  imagina- 
tion was  full  of  those  striding  metallic  mon- 

75 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

sters,  and  of  the  dead  body  smashed  against 
the  fence. 

I  crouched  at  the  foot  of  the  staircase  with 
my  back  to  the  wall,  shivering  violently. 


XI 

AT  THE  WINDOW 

I  HAVE  already  said  that  my  storms  of  emo- 
tion have  a  trick  of  exhausting  themselves. 
After  a  time  I  discovered  that  I  was  cold  and 
wet,  and  with  little  pools  of  water  about  me 
on  the  stair-carpet.  I  got  up  almost  mechan- 
ically, went  into  the  dining-room  and  drank 
some  whiskey,  and  then  I  was  moved  to 
change  my  clothes. 

After  I  had  done  that  I  went  up  -  stairs  to 
my  study,  but  why  I  did  so  I  do  not  know. 
The  window  of  my  study  looks  over  the  trees 
and  the  railway  towards  Horsell  Common.  In 
the  hurry  of  our  departure  this  window  had 
been  left  open.  The  passage  was  dark,  and,  by 
contrast  with  the  picture  the  window-frame 
enclosed,  that  side  of  the  room  seemed  impen- 
etrably dark.    I  stopped  short  in  the  doorway. 

The  thunderstorm  had  passed.  The  towers 
of  the  Oriental  College  and  the  pine  -  trees 
about  it  had  gone,  and  very  far  away,  lit  by  a 
vivid  red  glare,  the  common  about  the  sand- 

77 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

pits  was  visible.  Across  the  light,  huge  black 
shapes,  grotesque  and  strange,  moved  busily 
to  and  fro. 

It  seemed,  indeed,  as  if  the  whole  country 
in  that  direction  was  on  fire — a  broad  hill-side 
set  with  minute  tongues  of  flame,  swaying  and 
writhing  with  the  gusts  of  the  dying  storm, 
and  throwing  a  red  reflection  upon  the  cloud- 
scud  above.  Every  now  and  then  a  haze  of 
smoke  from  some  nearer  conflagration  drove 
across  the  window  and  hid  the  Martian  shapes. 
I  could  not  see  what  they  were  doing,  nor  the 
clear  form  of  them,  nor  recognize  the  black 
objects  they  were  busied  upon.  Neither  could 
I  see  the  nearer  fire,  though  the  reflections  of 
it  danced  on  the  wall  and  ceiling  of  the  study. 
A  sharp,  resinous  twang  of  burning  was  in  the 
air. 

I  closed  the  door  noiselessly  and  crept  tow- 
ards the  window.  As  I  did  so,  the  view  open- 
ed out  until,  on  the  one  hand,  it  reached  to 
the  houses  about  Woking  station,  and  on  the 
other  to  the  charred  and  blackened  pine-woods 
of  Byfleet.  There  was  a  light  down  below  the 
hill,  on  the  railway,  near  the  arch,  and  several 
of  the  houses  along  the  Maybury  road  and  the 
streets  near  the  station  were  glowing  ruins. 
The  light  upon  the  railway  puzzled  me  at  first; 
there  were  a  black  heap  and  a  vivid  glare,  and 

78 


AT    THE    WINDOW 

to  the  right  of  that  a  row  of  yellow  oblongs. 
Then  I  perceived  this  was  a  wrecked  train,  the 
fore-part  smashed  and  on  fire,  the  hinder  car- 
riages still  upon  the  rails, 

Between  these  three  main  centres  of  light, 
the  houses,  the  train,  and  the  burning  country 
towards  Chobham,  stretched  irregular  patches 
of  dark  country,  broken  here  and  there  by  in- 
tervals of  dimly  glowing  and  smoking  grounds 
It  was  the  strangest  spectacle,  that  black  ex- 
panse set  with  fire.  It  reminded  me,  more 
than  anything  else,  of  the  Potteries  when  seen 
at  night.  Of  people  at  first  I  could  distinguish 
none,  though  I  peered  intently  for  them.  Later 
I  saw  against  the  light  of  Woking  station  a 
number  of  black  figures  hurrying  one  after 
the  other  across  the  line. 

And  this  was  the  little  world  in  which  I  had 
been  living  securely  for  years,  this  fiery  chaos  ! 
What  had  happened  in  the  last  seven  hours  I 
still  did  not  know,  nor  did  I  know,  though  I 
was  beginning  to  guess,  the  relation  between 
these  mechanical  colossi  and  the  sluggish  lumps 
I  had  seen  disgorged  from  the  cylinder.  With 
a  queer  feeling  of  impersonal  interest  I  turned 
my  desk-chair  to  the  window,  sat  down,  and 
stared  at  the  blackened  country,  and  particular- 
ly at  the  three  gigantic  black  things  that  were 
going  to  and  fro  in  the  glare  about  the  sand-pits. 

79 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

They  seemed  amazingly  busy.  I  began  to 
ask  myself  what  they  could  be.  Were  they 
intelligent  mechanisms?  Such  a  thing  I  felt 
was  impossible.  Or  did  a  Martian  sit  within 
each,  ruling,  directing,  using,  much  as  a  man's 
brain  sits  and  rules  in  his  body  ?  I  began  to 
compare  the  things  to  human  machines,  to  ask 
myself  for  the  first  time  in  my  life  how  an  iron- 
clad or  a  steam-engine  would  seem  to  an  in- 
telligent lower  animal. 

The  storm  had  left  the  sky  clear,  and  over 
the  smoke  of  the  burning  land  the  little  fad- 
ing pin-point  of  Mars  was  dropping  into  the 
west,  when  a  soldier  came  into  my  garden.  I 
heard  a  slight  scraping  at  the  fence,  and  rous- 
ing myself  from  the  lethargy  that  had  fallen 
upon  me,  I  looked  down  and  saw  him  dimly, 
clambering  over  the  palings.  At  the  sight  of 
another  human  being  my  torpor  passed,  and  I 
leaned  out  of  the  window  eagerly. 

"  Hist  !*'  said  I,  in  a  whisper. 

He  stopped  astride  of  the  fence  in  doubt. 
Then  he  came  over  and  across  the  lawn  to 
the  corner  of  the  house.  He  bent  down  and 
stepped  softly. 

"Who's  there?"  he  said,  also  whispering, 
standing  under  the  window  and  peering  up. 

"  Where  are  you  going  V*  I  asked, 

"God  knows." 

80 


AT    THE    WINDOW 

**  Are  you  trying  to  hide  ?" 

"That's  it/' 

"  Come  into  the  house,"  I  said. 

I  went  down,  unfastened  the  door,  and  let 
him  in,  and  locked  the  door  again.  I  could 
not  see  his  face.  He  was  hatless,  and  his  coat 
was  unbuttoned. 

*'  My  God  !"  he  said,  as  I  drew  him  in. 

"  What  has  happened  ?"  I  asked. 

"What  hasn't?"  In  the  obscurity  I  could 
see  he  made  a  gesture  of  despair.  "They 
wiped  us  out  —  simply  wiped  us  out,"  he  re- 
peated again  and  again. 

He  followed  me,  almost  mechanically,  into 
the  dining-room. 

"  Take  some  whiskey,"  I  said,  pouring  out  a 
stiff  dose. 

He  drank  it.  Then  abruptly  he  sat  down 
before  the  table,  put  his  head  on  his  arms,  and 
began  to  sob  and  weep  like  a  little  boy,  in  q 
perfect  passion  of  emotion,  while  I,  with  a 
curious  forgetfulness  of  my  own  recent  de- 
spair, stood  beside  him,  wondering. 

It  was  a  long  time  before  he  could  steady 
his  nerves  to  answer  my  questions,  and  then  he 
answered  perplexingly  and  brokenly.  He  was 
a  driver  in  the  artillery,  and  had  only  come 
into  action  about  seven.  At  that  time  firing 
was  going  on  across  the  common,  and  it  was 
F  8i 


THE    WAR    OF   THE    WORLDS 

said  the  first  party  of  Martians  were  crawling 
slowly  towards  their  second  cylinder  under 
cover  of  a  metal  shield. 

Later  this  shield  staggered  up  on  tripod  legs 
and  became  the  first  of  the  fighting-machines 
I  had  seen.  The  gun  he  drove  had  been  un- 
limbered  near  Horsell,  in  order  to  command 
the  sand-pits,  and  its  arrival  it  was  that  had 
precipitated  the  action.  As  the  limber  gun- 
ners went  to  the  rear,  his  horse  trod  in  a  rabbit- 
hole  and  came  down,  throwing  him  into  a  de- 
pression of  the  ground.  At  the  same  moment 
the  gun  exploded  behind  him,  the  ammunition 
blew  up,  there  was  fire  all  about  him,  and  he 
found  himself  lying  under  a  heap  of  charred 
dead  men  and  dead  horses. 

"  I  lay  still,"  he  said,  "  scared  out  of  my  wits, 
with  the  forequarter  of  a  horse  atop  of  me. 
We'd  been  wiped  out.  And  the  smell — good 
God  !  Like  burnt  meat !  I  was  hurt  across 
the  back  by  the  fall  of  the  horse,  and  there  I 
had  to  lie  until  I  felt  better.  Just  like  parade 
it  had  been  a  minute  before  —  then  stumble, 
bang,  swish  ! 

"  Wiped  out !"  he  said. 

He  had  hid  under  the  dead  horse  for  a  long 
time,  peeping  out  furtively  across  the  common. 
The  Cardigan  men  had  tried  a  rush,  in  skir- 
mishing order,  at  the  pit,  simply  to  be  swept  out 

82 


AT    THE    WINDOW 

of  existence.  Then  the  monster  had  risen  to 
its  feet,  and  had  begun  to  walk  leisurely  to  and 
fro  across  the  common,  among  the  few  fugi- 
tives, with  its  headlike  hood  turning  about  ex- 
actly like  the  head  of  a  cowled  human  being. 
A  kind  of  arm  carried  a  complicated  metallic 
case,  about  which  green  flashes  scintillated, 
and  out  of  the  funnel  of  this  there  smote  the 
Heat-Ray. 

In  a  few  minutes  there  was,  so  far  as  the 
soldier  could  see,  not  a  living  thing  left  upon 
the  common,  and  every  bush  and  tree  upon  it 
that  was  not  already  a  blackened  skeleton  was 
burning.  The  hussars  had  been  on  the  road 
beyond  the  curvature  of  the  ground,  and  he 
saw  nothing  of  them.  He  heard  the  Maxims 
rattle  for  a  time  and  then  become  still.  The 
giant  saved  Woking  station  and  its  cluster  of 
houses  until  the  last ;  then  in  a  moment  the 
Heat-Ray  was  brought  to  bear,  and  the  town 
became  a  heap  of  fiery  ruins.  Then  the  Thing 
shut  off  the  Heat-Ray,  and,  turning  its  back 
upon  the  artilleryman,  began  to  waddle  away 
towards  the  smouldering  pine-woods  that  shel- 
tered the  second  cylinder.  As  it  did  so  a  sec- 
ond glittering  Titan  built  itself  up  out  of  the 
pit. 

The  second  monster  followed  the  first,  and 
at  that  the  artilleryman  began  to  crawl  very 

33 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

cautiously  across  the  hot  heather  ash  towards 
Horsell.  He  managed  to  get  alive  into  the 
ditch  along  by  the  side  of  the  road,  and  so 
escaped  to  Woking.  There  his  story  became 
ejaculatory.  The  place  was  impassable.  It 
seems  there  were  a  few  people  alive  there, 
frantic  for  the  most  part,  and  many  burned 
and  scalded.  He  was  turned  aside  by  the  fire, 
and  hid  among  some  almost  scorching  heaps 
of  broken  wall  as  one  of  the  Martian  giants  re- 
turned. He  saw  this  one  pursue  a  man,  catch 
him  up  in  one  of  its  steely  tentacles,  and  knock 
his  head  against  the  trunk  of  a  pine-tree.  At 
last,  after  nightfall,  the  artilleryman  made  a 
rush  for  it  and  got  over  the  railway  embank- 
ment. 

Since  then  he  had  been  skulking  along  tow- 
ards Maybury,  in  the  hope  of  getting  out  of 
danger  Londonward.  People  were  hiding  in 
trenches  and  cellars,  and  many  of  the  survivors 
had  made  off  towards  Woking  village  and  Send. 
He  had  been  consumed  with  thirst  until  he 
found  one  of  the  water  mains  near  the  railway 
arch  smashed,  and  the  water  bubbling  out  like 
a  spring  upon  the  road. 

That  was  the  story  I  got  from  him,  bit  by 
bit.  He  grew  calmer  telling  me  and  trying  to 
make  me  see  the  things  he  had  seen.  He  had 
eaten  no  food  since  mid-day,  he  told  me  early 

84 


AT    THE    WINDOW 

in  his  narrative,  and  I  found  some  mutton  and 
bread  in  the  pantry  and  brought  it  into  the 
room.  We  lit  no  lamp  for  fear  of  attracting  the 
Martians,  and  ever  and  again  our  hands  would 
touch  upon  bread  or  meat.  As  he  talked,  thinp^s 
about  us  came  darkly  out  of  the  darkness,  and 
the  trampled  bushes  and  broken  rose-trees  out- 
side the  window  grew  distinct.  It  would  seem 
that  a  number  of  men  or  animals  had  rushed 
across  the  lawn.  I  began  to  see  his  face, 
blackened  and  haggard,  as  no  doubt  mine  was 
also. 

When  we  had  finished  eating  we  went  softly 
up-stairs  to  my  study,  and  I  looked  again  out 
of  the  open  window.  In  one  night  the  valley 
had  become  a  valley  of  ashes.  The  fires  had 
dwindled  now.  Where  flames  had  been  there 
were  now  streamers  of  smoke  ;  but  the  count- 
less ruins  of  shattered  and  gutted  houses  and 
blasted  and  blackened  trees  that  the  night  had 
hidden  stood  out  now  gaunt  and  terrible  in  the 
pitiless  light  of  dawn.  Yet  here  and  there 
some  object  had  had  the  luck  to  escape  —  a 
white  railway  signal  here,  the  end  of  a  green- 
house there,  white  and  fresh  amid  the  wreck- 
age. Never  before  in  the  history  of  warfare 
had  destruction  been  so  indiscriminate  and 
so  universal.  And,  shining  with  the  growing 
light  of  the  east,  three  of  the  metallic  giants 

35 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

stood  about  the  pit,  their  cowls  rotating  as        | 
though   they   were   surveying  the  desolation 
they  had  made. 

It  seemed  to  me  that  the  pit  had  been 
enlarged,  and  ever  and  again  puffs  of  vivid 
green  vapor  streamed  up  out  of  it  towards 
the  brightening  dawn — streamed  up,  whirled, 
broke,  and  vanished. 

^  Beyond  were  the  pillars  of  fire  about  Chob- 
ham.  They  became  pillars  of  bloodshot  smoke 
at  the  first  touch  of  day. 


XII 


WHAT  I  SAW  OF  THE  DESTRUCTION  OF  WEY« 
BRIDGE  AND  SHEPPERTON 

As  the  dawn  grew  brighter  we  withdrew 
ourselves  from  the  window,  from  which  we 
had  watched  the  Martians,  and  went  very 
quietly  down-stairs. 

The  artilleryman  agreed  with  me  that  the 
house  was  no  place  to  stay  in.  He  proposed, 
he  said,  to  make  his  way  Londonward,  and 
thence  rejoin  his  battery — No.  12,  of  the  Horse 
Artillery.  My  plan  was  to  return  at  once  to 
Leatherhead,  and  so  greatly  had  the  strength 
of  the  Martians  impressed  me  that  I  had  de- 
termined to  take  my  wife  to  Newhaven,  and 
go  with  her  out  of  the  country  forthwith.  For 
I  already  perceived  clearly  that  the  country 
about  London  must  inevitably  be  the  scene  of 
a  disastrous  struggle  before  such  creatures  as 
these  could  be  destroyed. 

Between  us  and  Leatherhead,  however,  lay 
the  Third  Cylinder,  with  its  guarding  giants. 
Had  I  been  alone,  I  think  I  should  have  taken 

37 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

my  chance  and  struck  across  country.  But 
the  artilleryman  dissuaded  me  :  "  It's  no  kind- 
ness to  the  right  sort  of  wife/'  he  said,  "  to 
make  her  a  widow ;"  and  in  the  end  I  agreed 
to  go  with  him,  under  cover  of  the  woods, 
northward  as  far  as  Street  Chobham  before  I 
parted  with  him.  Thence  I  would  make  a  big 
detour  by  Epsom  to  reach  Leatherhead. 

I  should  have  started  at  once,  but  my  com- 
panion had  been  in  active  service,  and  he 
knew  better  than  that.  He  made  me  ransack 
the  house  for  a  flask,  which  he  filled  with 
whiskey  ;  and  we  lined  every  available  pocket 
with  packets  of  biscuits  and  slices  of  meat. 
Then  we  crept  out  of  the  house,  and  ran  as 
quickly  as  we  could  down  the  ill-made  road 
by  which  I  had  come  overnight.  The  houses 
seemed  deserted.  In  the  road  lay  a  group  of 
three  charred  bodies  close  together,  struck 
dead  by  the  Heat  -  Ray  ;  and  here  and  there 
were  things  that  the  people  had  dropped — a 
clock,  a  slipper,  a  silver  spoon,  and  the  like 
poor  valuables.  At  the  corner  turning  up 
towards  the  post-office  a  little  cart,  filled  with 
boxes  and  furniture,  and  horseless,  heeled  over 
on  a  broken  wheel.  A  cash-box  had  been  has- 
tily smashed  open  and  thrown  under  the  de- 
bris. 

Except  the  lodge  at  the  Orphanage,  which 


WEYBRIDGE  AND  SHEPPERTON 

was  still  on  fire,  none  of  the  houses  had  suffered 
very  greatly  here.  The  Heat-Ray  had  shaved 
the  chimney-tops  and  passed.  Yet,  save  our- 
selves, there  did  not  seem  to  be  a  living  soul 
on  Maybury  Hill.  The  majority  of  the  in- 
habitants had  escaped,  I  suppose,  by  way  of 
the  Old  Woking  road — the  road  I  had  taken 
when  I  drove  to  Leatherhead  —  or  they  had 
hidden. 

We  went  down  the  lane,  by  the  body  of  the 
man  in  black,  sodden  now  from  the  overnight 
hail,  and  broke  into  the  woods  at  the  foot  of 
the  hill.  We  pushed  through  these  towards 
the  railway  without  meeting  a  soul.  The 
woods  across  the  line  were  but  the  scarred  and 
blackened  ruins  of  woods  ;  for  the  most  part 
the  trees  had  fallen,  but  a  certain  proportion 
still  stood,  dismal  gray  stems,  with  dark-brown 
foliage  instead  of  green. 

On  our  side  the  fire  had  done  no  more  than 
scorch  the  nearer  trees  ;  it  had  failed  to  secure 
its  footing.  In  one  place  the  woodmen  had 
been  at  work  on  Saturday  ;  trees,  felled  and 
freshly  trimmed,  lay  in  a  clearing,  with  heaps 
of  sawdust,  by  the  sawing- machine  and  its 
engine.  Hard  by  was  a  temporary  hut,  de- 
serted. There  was  not  a  breath  of  wind  this 
morning,  and  everything  was  strangely  still. 
Even  the  birds  were  hushed,  and  as  we  hur* 

89 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

ried  along  I  and  the  artilleryman  talked  in 
whispers  and  looked  now  and  again  over  our 
shoulders.  Once  or  twice  we  stopped  to 
listen. 

After  a  time  we  drew  near  the  road,  and  as 
we  did  so  we  heard  the  clatter  of  hoofs  and 
saw  through  the  tree-stems  three  cavalry  sol- 
diers riding  slowly  towards  Woking.  We  hailed 
them,  and  they  halted  while  we  hurried  tow- 
ards them.  It  was  a  lieutenant  and  a  couple 
of  privates  of  the  8th  Hussars,  with  a  stand 
like  a  theodolite,  which  the  artilleryman  told 
me  was  a  heliograph. 

"You  are  the  first  men  I've  seen  coming 
this  way  this  morning,"  said  the  lieutenant. 
"What's  brewing?" 

His  voice  and  face  were  eager.  The  men 
behind  him  stared  curiously.  The  artillery- 
man jumped  down  the  bank  into  the  road  and 
saluted. 

"  Gun  destroyed  last  night,  sir.  Have  been 
hiding.  Trying  to  rejoin  battery,  sir.  You'll 
come  in  sight  of  the  Martians,  I  expect,  about 
half  a  mile  along  this  road." 

"  What  the  dickens  are  they  like  ?"  asked  the 
lieutenant. 

"  Giants  in  armor,  sir.  Hundred  feet  high. 
Three  legs  and  a  body  like  'luminium,  with  a 
mighty  great  head  in  a  hood,  sir." 

90 


WEYBRIDGE  AND  SHEPPERTON 

"Get  outr  said  the  lieutenant.  "What 
confounded  nonsense  !'* 

"  You'll  see,  sir.  They  carry  a  kind  of  box, 
sir,  that  shoots  fire  and  strikes  you  dead." 

"  What  d'ye  mean — a  gun  ?" 

"  No,  sir,"  and  the  artilleryman  began  a  vivid 
account  of  the  Heat-Ray.  Half-way  through 
the  lieutenant  interrupted  him  and  looked  up 
at  me.  I  was  still  standing  on  the  bank  by 
the  side  of  the  road. 

"  Did  you  see  it  ?"  said  the  lieutenant. 

"  It's  perfectly  true,"  I  said. 

"Well,"  said  the  lieutenant,  "I  suppose  it's 
my  business  to  see  it  too.  Look  here  " — to  the 
artilleryman  —  "  we're  detailed  here  clearing 
people  out  of  their  houses.  You'd  better  go 
along  and  report  yourself  to  Brigadier-General 
Marvin,  and  tell  him  all  you  know.  He's  at 
Weybridge.     Know  the  way?" 

"  I  do,"  I  said ;  and  he  turned  his  horse 
southward  again. 

"  Half  a  mile,  you  say  ?"  said  he. 

"At  most,"  I  answered,  and  pointed  over 
the  tree-tops  southward.  He  thanked  me  and 
rode  on,  and  we  saw  them  no  more. 

Farther  along  we  came  upon  a  group  of 
three  women  and  two  children  in  the  road, 
busy  clearing  out  a  laborer's  cottage.  They 
had  got  hold  of  a  little  hand-truck,  and  were 

91 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

piling  it  up  with  unclean-looking  bundles  and 
shabby  furniture.  They  were  all  too  assidu- 
ously engaged  to  talk  to  us  as  we  passed. 

By  Byfleet  station  we  emerged  from  the 
pine-trees,  and  found  the  country  calm  and 
peaceful  under  the  morning  sunlight.  We 
were  far  beyond  the  range  of  the  Heat-Ray 
there,  and  had  it  not  been  for  the  silent  de- 
sertion of  some  of  the  houses,  the  stirring 
movement  of  packing  in  others,  and  the  knot 
of  soldiers  standing  on  the  bridge  over  the 
railway  and  staring  down  the  line  towards 
Woking,  the  day  would  have  seemed  very  like 
any  other  Sunday. 

Several  farm  wagons  and  carts  were  mov- 
ing creakily  along  the  road  to  Addlestone, 
and  suddenly  through  the  gate  of  a  field  we 
saw,  across  a  stretch  of  flat  meadow,  six 
twelve-pounders,  standing  neatly  at  equal  dis- 
tances and  pointing  towards  Woking.  The 
gunners  stood  by  the  guns  waiting,  and  the 
ammunition  wagons  were  at  a  business-like 
distance.  The  men  stood  almost  as  if  under 
inspection. 

''  That's  good  !''  said  I.  "  They  will  get  one 
fair  shot,  at  any  rate." 

The  artilleryman  hesitated  at  the  gate. 

"  I  shall  go  on,'*  he  said. 

Farther  on  towards  Weybridge,  just  over 

Q2 


WEYBRIDGE    AND    SHEPPERTON 

the  bridge,  there  were  a  number  of  men  in 
white  fatigue  jackets  throwing  up  a  long  ram- 
part, and  more  guns  behind. 

"  It's  bows  and  arrows  against  the  lightning, 
anyhow,"  said  the  artilleryman.  ''  They  'aven*t 
seen  that  fire-beam  yet." 

The  officers  who  were  not  actively  engaged 
stood  and  stared  over  the  tree-tops  south- 
westward,  and  the  men  digging  would  stop 
every  now  and  again  to  stare  in  the  same 
direction. 

Byfleet  was  in  a  tumult,  people  packing,  and 
a  score  of  hussars,  some  of  them  dismounted, 
some  on  horseback,  were  hunting  them  about. 
Three  or  four  black  government  wagons, 
with  crosses  in  white  circles,  and  an  old  omni- 
bus, among  other  vehicles,  were  being  loaded 
in  the  village  street.  There  were  scores  of 
people,  most  of  them  sufficiently  sabbatical  to 
have  assumed  their  best  clothes.  The  soldiers 
were  having  the  greatest  difficulty  in  making 
them  realize  the  gravity  of  their  position.  We 
saw  one  shrivelled  old  fellow,  with  a  huge  box 
and  a  score  or  more  of  flower-pots  containing 
orchids,  angrily  expostulating  with  the  corpo- 
ral who  would  leave  them  behind.  I  stopped 
and  gripped  his  arm. 

**Do  you  know  what's  over  there?"  I  said, 
pointing  at  the  pine-tops  that  hid  the  Martians. 

93 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

"  Eh  ?'*  said  he,  turning.  "  I  was  explainin' 
these  is  vallyble." 

"  Death  !"  I  shouted.  "  Death  is  coming  ! 
Death  !'*  and,  leaving  him  to  digest  that  if  he 
could,  I  hurried  on  after  the  artilleryman.  At 
the  corner  I  looked  back.  The  soldier  had 
left  him,  and  he  was  still  standing  by  his  box, 
with  the  pots  of  orchids  on  the  lid  of  it,  and 
staring  vaguely  over  the  trees. 

No  one  in  Weybridge  could  tell  us  where 
the  headquarters  were  established  ;  the  whole 
place  was  in  such  confusion  as  I  had  never 
seen  in  any  town  before.  Carts,  carriages 
everywhere,  the  most  astonishing  miscellany 
of  conveyances  and  horseflesh.  The  respect- 
able inhabitants  of  the  place,  men  in  golf  and 
boating  costumes,  wives  prettily  dressed,  were 
packing,  riverside  loafers  energetically  help- 
ing, children  excited,  and,  for  the  most  part, 
highly  delighted  at  this  astonishing  variation 
of  their  Sunday  experiences.  In  the  midst  of 
it  all  the  worthy  vicar  was  very  pluckily  hold- 
ing an  early  celebration,  and  his  bell  was  jang- 
ling out  above  the  excitement. 

I  and  the  artilleryman,  seated  on  the  step  of 
the  drinking-fountain,  made  a  very  passable 
meal  upon  what  we  had  brought  with  us. 
Patrols  of  soldiers  —  here  no  longer  hussars, 
but  grenadiers  in  white — were  warning  people 

94 


WEYBRIDGE    AND    SHEPPERTON 

to  move  now  or  to  take  refuge  in  their  cellars 
as  soon  as  the  firing  began.  We  saw  as  we 
crossed  the  railway  bridge  that  a  growing 
crowd  of  people  had  assembled  in  and  about 
the  railway  station,  and  the  swarming  platform 
was  piled  with  boxes  and  packages.  The  or- 
dinary traffic  had  been  stopped,  I  believe,  in 
order  to  allow  of  the  passage  of  troops  and  guns 
to  Chertsey,  and  I  have  heard  since  that  a  sav- 
age struggle  occurred  for  places  in  the  special 
trains  that  were  put  on  at  a  later  hour. 

We  remained  at  Weybridge  until  mid-day, 
and  at  that  hour  we  found  ourselves  at  the 
place  near  Shepperton  Lock  where  the  Wey 
and  Thames  join.  Part  of  the  time  we  spent 
helping  two  old  women  to  pack  a  little  cart. 
The  Wey  has  a  treble  mouth,  and  at  this  point 
boats  are  to  be  hired,  and  there  was  a  ferry 
across  the  river.  On  the  Shepperton  side  was 
an  inn,  with  a  lawn,  and  beyond  that  the  tower 
of  Shepperton  Church — it  has  been  replaced 
by  a  spire — rose  above  the  trees. 

Here  we  found  an  excited  and  noisy  crowd 
of  fugitives.  As  yet  the  flight  had  not  grown 
to  a  panic,  but  there  were  already  far  more 
people  than  all  the  boats  going  to  and  fro 
could  enable  to  cross.  People  came  panting 
along  under  heavy  burdens  ;  one  husband  and 
wife   were   even   carrying    a    small    outhouse 

95 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

door  between  them,  with  some  of  their  house- 
hold goods  piled  thereon.  One  man  told  us 
he  meant  to  try  to  get  away  from  Shepperton 
station. 

There  was  a  lot  of  shouting,  and  one  man 
was  even  jesting.  The  idea  people  seemed  to 
have  here  was  that  the  Martians  were  simply 
formidable  human  beings,  who  might  attack 
and  sack  the  town,  to  be  certainly  destroyed  in 
the  end.  Every  now  and  then  people  would 
glance  nervously  across  the  Wey,  at  the  mead- 
ows towards  Chertsey,  but  everything  over 
there  was  still. 

Across  the  Thames,  except  just  where  the 
boats  landed,  everything  was  quiet,  in  vivid 
contrast  with  the  Surrey  side.  The  people 
who  landed  there  from  the  boats  went  tramp- 
ing off  down  the  lane.  The  big  ferry-boat  had 
just  made  a  journey.  Three  or  four  soldiers 
stood  on  the  lawn  of  the  inn,  staring  and  jest- 
ing at  the  fugitives,  without  offering  to  help. 
The  inn  was  closed,  as  it  was  now  within  pro- 
hibited hours. 

"  What's  that  ?"  cried  a  boatman,  and  "  Shut 
up,  you  fool  !"  said  a  man  near  me  to  a  yelp- 
ing dog.  Then  the  sound  came  again,  this 
time  from  the  direction  of  Chertsey,  a  muffled 
thud — the  sound  of  a  gun. 

The  fighting  was  beginning.     Almost  imme- 

96 


WEYBRIDGE    AND    SHEPPERTON 

diately  unseen  batteries  across  the  river  to  our 
right,  unseen  because  of  the  trees,  took  up  the 
chorus,  firing  heavily  one  after  the  other.  A 
woman  screamed.  Every  one  stood  arrested 
by  the  sudden  stir  of  battle,  near  us  and  yet 
invisible  to  us.  Nothing  was  to  be  seen  save 
flat  meadows,  cows  feeding  unconcernedly  for 
the  most  part,  and  silvery  pollard  willows  mo- 
tionless in  the  warm  sunlight. 

**  The  sojers  '11  stop  'em,"  said  a  woman  be- 
side me,  doubtfully.  A  haziness  rose  over  the 
tree-tops. 

Then  suddenly  we  saw  a  rush  of  smoke  far 
away  up  the  river,  a  puff  of  smoke  that  jerked 
up  into  the  air,  and  hung,  and  forthwith  the 
ground  heaved  underfoot  and  a  heavy  explo- 
sion shook  the  air,  smashing  two  or  three  win- 
dows in  the  houses  near,  and  leaving  us  aston- 
ished. 

**  Here  they  are  !"  shouted  a  man  in  a  blue 
jersey.  ^'Yonder  !    D'yer  see  them  ?   Yonder  !" 

Quickly,  one  after  the  other,  one,  two,  three, 
four  of  the  armored  Martians  appeared,  far 
away  over  the  little  trees,  across  the  flat  mead- 
ows that  stretch  towards  Chertsey,  and  strid- 
ing hurriedly  towards  the  river.  Little  cowled 
figures  they  seemed  at  first,  going  with  a  roll- 
ing motion  and  as  fast  as  flying  birds. 

Then,  advancing  obliquely  towards  us,  came 
G  97 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

a  fifth.  Their  armored  bodies  glittered  in  the 
sun  as  they  swept  swiftly  forward  upon  the 
guns,  growing  rapidly  larger  as  they  drew 
nearer.  One  on  the  extreme  left,  the  remotest, 
that  is,  flourished  a  huge  case  high  in  the  air, 
and  the  ghostly,  terrible  Heat-Ray  I  had  al- 
ready seen  on  Friday  night  smote  towards 
Chertsey  and  struck  the  town. 

At  sight  of  these  strange,  swift,  and  terri- 
ble creatures  the  crowd  near  the  water's  edge 
seemed  to  me  to  be  for  a  moment  horror- 
struck.  There  was  no  screaming  or  shouting, 
but  a  silence.  Then  a  hoarse  murmur  and  a 
movement  of  feet — a  splashing  from  the  water. 
A  man,  too  frightened  to  drop  the  portmanteau 
he  carried  on  his  shoulder,  swung  round  and 
sent  me  staggering  with  a  blow  from  the  corner 
of  his  burden.  A  woman  thrust  at  me  with 
her  hand  and  rushed  past  me.  I  turned,  too, 
with  the  rush  of  the  people,  but  I  was  not  too 
terrified  for  thought.  The  terrible  Heat-Ray 
was  in  my  mind.  To  get  under  water  !  That 
was  it  ! 

"  Get  under  water  !"  I  shouted,  unheeded. 

I  faced  about  again,  and  rushed  towards  the 
approaching  Martian,  rushed  right  down  the 
gravelly  beach  and  headlong  into  the  water. 
Others  did  the  same.  A  boatload  of  people 
putting   back   came   leaping  out  as  I  rushed 

98 


WEYBRIDGE    AND    SHEPPERTON 

past.  The  stones  under  my  feet  were  muddy 
and  slippery,  and  the  river  was  so  low  that  I 
ran  perhaps  twenty  feet  scarcely  waist-deep. 
Then,  as  the  Martian  towered  overhead  scarce- 
ly a  couple  of  hundred  yards  away,  I  flung  my- 
self forward  under  the  surface.  The  splashes 
of  the  people  in  the  boats  leaping  into  the  river 
sounded  like  thunder-claps  in  my  ears.  Peo- 
ple were  landing  hastily  on  both  sides  of  the 
river. 

But  the  Martian  machine  took  no  more  no- 
tice for  the  moment  of  the  people  running  this 
way  and  that  than  a  man  would  of  the  confu- 
sion of  ants  in  a  nest  against  which  his  foot 
has  kicked.  When,  half  suffocated,  I  raised 
my  head  above  water,  the  Martian's  hood 
pointed  at  the  batteries  that  were  still  firing 
across  the  river,  and  as  it  advanced  it  swung 
loose  what  must  have  been  the  generator  of  the 
Heat-Ray. 

In  another  moment  it  was  on  the  bank,  and 
in  a  stride  wading  half-way  across.  The  knees 
of  its  foremost  legs  bent  at  the  farther  bank, 
and  in  another  moment  it  had  raised  itself  to 
its  full  height  again,  close  to  the  village  of 
Shepperton.  Forthwith  the  six  guns,  which, 
unknown  to  any  one  on  the  right  bank,  had 
been  hidden  behind  the  outskirts  of  that  vil- 
lage, fired  simultaneously.     The  sudden  near 

99 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

concussions,  the  last  close  upon  the  first,  made 
my  heart  jump.  The  monster  was  already 
raising  the  case  generating  the  Heat-Ray  as 
the  first  shell  burst  six  yards  above  the  hood. 

I  gave  a  cry  of  astonishment.  I  saw  and 
thought  nothing  of  the  other  four  Martian 
monsters ;  my  attention  was  riveted  upon  the 
nearer  incident.  Simultaneously  two  other 
shells  burst  in  the  air  near  the  body  as  the 
hood  twisted  round  in  time  to  receive,  but  not 
in  time  to  dodge,  the  fourth  shell. 

The  shell  burst  clean  in  the  face  of  the 
Thing.  The  hood  bulged,  flashed,  was  whirled 
off  in  a  dozen  tattered  fragments  of  red  flesh 
and  glittering  metal. 

"  Hit !"  shouted  I,  with  something  between  a 
scream  and  a  cheer. 

I  heard  answering  shouts  from  the  people  in 
the  water  about  me.  I  could  have  leaped  out 
of  the  water  with  that  momentary  exultation. 

The  decapitated  colossus  reeled  Jike  a  drunk- 
en giant ;  but  it  did  not  fall  over.  It  recov- 
ered its  balance  by  a  miracle,  and,  no  longer 
heeding  its  steps,  and  with  the  camera  that  fired 
the  Heat  -  Ray  now  rigidly  upheld,  it  reeled 
swiftly  upon  Shepperton.  The  living  intelli- 
gence, the  Martian  within  the  hood,  was  slain 
and  splashed  to  the  four  winds  of  heaven,  and 
the  Thing  was  now  but  a  mere  intricate  device 

lOO 


WEYBRIDGE    AND    SHEPPERTON 

of  metal  whirling  to  destruction.  It  drove 
along  in  a  straight  line,  incapable  of  guidance. 
It  struck  the  tower  of  Shepperton  Church, 
smashing  it  down  as  the  impact  of  a  batter- 
ing-ram might  have  done,  swerved  aside,  blun- 
dered on,  and  collapsed  with  tremendous  force 
into  the  river  out  of  my  sight. 

A  violent  explosion  shook  the  air,  and  a 
spout  of  water,  steam,  mud,  and  shattered 
metal  shot  far  up  into  the  sky.  As  the  cam- 
era of  the  Heat-Ray  hit  the  water,  the  latter 
had  continently  flashed  into  steam.  In  an- 
other moment  a  huge  wave,  like  a  muddy  tidal 
bore,  but  almost  scaldingly  hot,  came  sweeping 
round  the  bend  up-stream.  I  saw  people  strug- 
gling shorewards,  and  heard  their  screaming 
and  shouting  faintly  above  the  seething  and 
roar  of  the  Martian's  collapse. 

For  the  moment  I  heeded  nothing  of  the 
heat,  forgot  the  patent  need  of  self-preserva- 
tion. I  splashed  through  the  tumultuous  wa- 
ter, pushing  aside  a  man  in  black  to  do  so,  until 
I  could  see  round  the  bend.  Half  a  dozen  de- 
serted boats  pitched  aimlessly  upon  the  confu- 
sion of  the  waves.  The  fallen  Martian  came 
into  sight  down-stream,  lying  across  the  river, 
and  for  the  most  part  submerged. 

Thick  clouds  of  steam  were  pouring  off  the 
wreckage,  and  through  the  tumultuously  whirl- 

lOI 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

ing  wisps  I  could  see,  intermittently  and  vague- 
ly, the  gigantic  limbs  churning  the  water  and 
flinging  a  splash  and  spray  of  mud  and  froth 
into  the  air.  The  tentacles  swayed  and  struck 
like  living  arms,  and,  save  for  the  helpless  pur- 
poselessness  of  these  movements,  it  was  as  if 
some  wounded  thing  were  struggling  for  its  life 
amid  the  waves.  Enormous  quantities  of  a 
ruddy-brown  fluid  were  spurting  up  in  noisy 
jets  out  of  the  machine. 

My  attention  was  diverted  from  their  strug- 
gles by  a  furious  yelling,  like  that  of  the  thing 
called  a  siren  in  our  manufacturing  towns.  A 
man,  knee-deep  near  the  towing-path,  shouted 
inaudibly  to  me  and  pointed.  Looking  back,  I 
saw  the  other  Martians  advancing  with  gigan- 
tic strides  down  the  river-bank  from  the  direc- 
tion of  Chertsey.  The  Shepperton  guns  spoke 
this  time  unavailingly. 

At  that  I  ducked  at  once  under  water,  and, 
holding  my  breath  until  movement  was  an 
agony,  blundered  painfully  along  under  the 
surface  as  long  as  I  could.  The  water  was  in  a 
tumult  about  me,  and  rapidly  growing  hotter. 

When  for  a  moment  I  raised  my  head  to  take 
breath  and  throw  the  hair  and  water  from  my 
eyes,  the  steam  was  rising  in  a  whirling  white 
fog  that  at  first  hid  the  Martians  altogether. 
The  noise  was  deafening.     Then  I  saw  them 

I02 


WEYBRIDGE    AND    SHEPPERTON 

dimly,  colossal  figures  of  gray,  magnified  by 
the  mist.  They  had  passed  by  me,  and  two 
were  stooping  over  the  frothing,  tumultuous 
ruins  of  their  comrade. 

The  third  and  fourth  stood  beside  him  in 
the  water,  one  perhaps  two  hundred  yards  from 
me,  the  other  towards  Laleham.  The  genera- 
tors of  the  Heat  -  Rays  waved  high,  and  the 
hissing  beams  smote  down  this  way  and  that. 

The  air  was  full  of  sound,  a  deafening  and  con- 
fusing conflict  of  noises — the  clangorous  din  of 
the  Martians,  the  crash  of  falling  houses,  the 
thud  of  trees,  fences,  sheds,  flashing  into  flame, 
and  the  crackling  and  roaring  of  fire.  Dense 
black  smoke  was  leaping  up  to  mingle  with  the 
steam  from  the  river,  and  as  the  Heat  -  Ray 
went  to  and  fro  over  Weybridge  its  impact 
was  marked  by  flashes  of  incandescent  white, 
that  gave  place  at  once  to  a  smoky  dance  of 
lurid  flames.  The  nearer  houses  still  stood  in- 
tact, awaiting  their  fate,  shadowy,  faint,  and 
pallid  in  the  steam,  with  the  fire  behind  them 
going  to  and  fro. 

For  a  moment,  perhaps,  I  stood  there,  breast- 
high  in  the  almost  boiling  water,  dumfounded 
at  my  position,  hopeless  of  escape.  Through 
the  reek  I  could  see  the  people  who  had  been 
with  me  in  the  river  scrambling  out  of  the 
water  through  the  reeds,  like  little  frogs  hur- 

IC3 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

rying  through  grass  from  the  advance  of  a 
man,  or  running  to  and  fro  in  utter  dismay 
on  the  towing-path. 

Then,  suddenly,  the  white  flashes  of  the  Heat- 
Ray  came  leaping  towards  me.  The  houses 
caved  in  as  they  dissolved  at  its  touch,  and 
darted  out  flames  ;  the  trees  changed  to  fire 
with  a  roar.  It  flickered  up  and  down  the 
towing  -  path,  licking  off  the  people  who  ran 
this  way  and  that,  and  came  down  to  the 
water's  edge  not  fifty  yards  from  where  I 
stood.  It  swept  across  the  river  to  Shepper- 
ton,  and  the  water  in  its  track  rose  in  a  boil- 
ing wheal  crested  with  steam.  I  turned  shore- 
ward. 

In  another  moment  the  huge  wave,  wellnigh 
at  the  boiling-point,  had  rushed  upon  me.  I 
screamed  aloud,  and,  scalded,  half  blinded, 
agonized,  I  staggered  through  the  leaping, 
hissing  water  towards  the  shore.  Had  my 
foot  stumbled,  it  would  have  been  the  end.  I 
fell  helplessly,  in  full  sight  of  the  Martians, 
upon  the  broad,  bare  gravelly  spit  that  runs 
down  to  mark  the  angle  of  the  Wey  and 
Thames.     I  expected  nothing  but  death. 

I  have  a  dim  memory  of  the  foot  of  a  Mar- 
tian coming  down  within  a  score  of  yards  of 
my  head,  driving  straight  into  the  loose  gravel, 
whirling  it  this  way  and  that,  and  lifting  again  ; 

104 


WEYBRIDGE  AND  SHEPPERTON 

of  a  long  suspense,  and  then  of  the  four  carry- 
ing the  debris  of  their  comrade  between  them, 
now  clear  and  then  presently  faint,  through 
a  veil  of  smoke,  receding  interminably,  as  it 
seemed  to  me,  across  a  vast  space  of  river  and 
meadow.  And  then,  very  slowly,  I  realized 
that  by  a  miracle  I  had  escapee. 


XIII 

HOW  I   FEIX.  IN  WITH  THE  CURATE 

After  giving  this  sudden  lesson  in  the 
power  of  terrestrial  weapons,  the  Martians  re- 
treated to  their  original  position  upon  Horsell 
Common,  and  in  their  haste,  and  encumbered 
with  the  debris  of  their  smashed  companion, 
they  no  doubt  overlooked  many  such  a  stray 
and  unnecessary  victim  as  myself.  Had  they 
left  their  comrade,  and  pushed  on  forthwith, 
there  was  nothing  at  that  time  between  them 
and  London  but  batteries  of  twelve  -  pounder 
guns,  and  they  would  certainly  have  reached 
the  capital  in  advance  of  the  tidings  of  their 
approach  ;  as  sudden,  dreadful,  and  destructive 
their  advent  would  have  been  as  the  earth- 
quake that  destroyed  Lisbon  a  century  ago. 

But  they  were  in  no  hurry.  Cylinder  fol- 
lowed cylinder  in  its  interplanetary  flight ; 
every  twenty  -  four  hours  brought  them  rein- 
forcement. And,  meanwhile,  the  military  and 
naval  authorities,  now  fully  alive  to  the  tre- 
mendous power  of  their  antagonists,  worked 

io6 


WITH    THE    CURATE 

with  furious  energy.  Every  minute  a  fresh 
gun  came  into  position,  until,  before  twilight, 
every  copse,  every  row  of  suburban  villas  on 
the  hilly  slopes  about  Kingston  and  Rich- 
mond, masked  an  expectant  black  muzzle. 
And  through  the  charred  and  desolated  area 
— perhaps  twenty  square  miles  altogether — 
that  encircled  the  Martian  encampment  on 
Horsell  Common,  through  charred  and  ruined 
villages  among  the  green  trees,  through  the 
blackened  and  smoking  arcades  that  had  been 
but  a  day  ago  pine  spinneys,  crawled  the  de- 
voted scouts  with  the  heliographs  that  were 
presently  to  warn  the  gunners  of  the  Martian 
approach.  But  the  Martians  now  understood 
our  command  of  artillery  and  the  danger  of 
human  proximity,  and  not  a  man  ventured 
within  a  mile  of  either  cylinder,  save  at  the 
price  of  his  life. 

It  would  seem  that  these  giants  spent  the  ear- 
lier part  of  the  afternoon  in  going  to  and  fro, 
transferring  everything  from  the  second  and 
third  cylinders — the  second  in  Addlestone  Golf 
Links  and  the  third  at  Pyrford — to  their  orig- 
inal pit  on  Horsell  Common.  Over  that,  above 
the  blackened  heather  and  ruined  buildings 
that  stretched  far  and  wide,  stood  one  as  sen- 
tinel, while  the  rest  abandoned  their  vast  fight- 
ing-machines   and    descended    into    the    pit. 

107 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

They  were  hard  at  work  there  far  into  the 
night,  and  the  towering  pillar  of  dense  green 
smoke  that  rose  therefrom  could  be  seen  from 
the  hills  about  Merrow,  and  even,  it  is  said, 
from  Banstead  and  Epsom  Downs. 

And  while  the  Martians  behind  me  were 
thus  preparing  for  their  next  sally,  and  in  front 
of  me  Humanity  gathered  for  the  battle,  I 
made  my  way,  with  infinite  pains  and  labor, 
from  the  fire  and  smoke  of  burning  Weybridge 
towards  London. 

I  saw  an  abandoned  boat,  very  small  and  re- 
mote, drifting  down-stream,  and,  throwing  off 
the  most  of  my  sodden  clothes,  I  went  after 
it,  gained  it,  and  so  escaped  out  of  that  de- 
struction. There  were  no  oars  in  the  boat,  but 
I  contrived  to  paddle,  as  well  as  my  parboiled 
hands  would  allow,  down  the  river  towards 
Halliford  and  Walton,  going  very  tediously, 
and  continually  looking  behind  me,  as  you  may 
well  understand.  I  followed  the  river,  because 
I  considered  that  the  water  gave  me  my  best 
chance  of  escape  should  these  giants  return. 

The  hot  water  from  the  Martians'  overthrow 
drifted  down-stream  with  me,  so  that  for  the 
best  part  of  a  mile  I  could  see  little  of  either 
bank.  Once,  however,  I  made  out  a  string  of 
black  figures  hurrying  across  the  meadows 
from  the  direction  of  Weybridge.     Halliford, 

1 08 


WITH    THE    CURATE 

it  seemed,  was  quite  deserted,  and  several  of 
the  houses  facing  the  river  were  on  fire.  It 
was  strange  to  see  the  place  quite  tranquil, 
quite  desolate  under  the  hot,  blue  sky,  with  the 
smoke  and  little  threads  of  flame  going  straight 
up  into  the  heat  of  the  afternoon.  Never  be- 
fore had  I  seen  houses  burning  without  the 
accompaniment  of  an  inconvenient  crowd.  A 
little  farther  on  the  dry  reeds  up  the  bank 
were  smoking  and  glowing,  and  a  line  of  fire 
inland  was  marching  steadily  across  a  late 
field  of  hay. 

For  a  long  time  I  drifted,  so  painful  and 
weary  was  I  after  the  violence  I  had  been 
through,  and  so  intense  the  heat  upon  the 
water.  Then  my  fears  got  the  better  of  me 
again,  and  I  resumed  my  paddling.  The  sun 
scorched  my  bare  back.  At  last,  as  the  bridge 
at  Walton  was  coming  into  sight  round  the 
bend,  my  fever  and  faintness  overcame  my 
fears,  and  I  landed  on  the  Middlesex  bank,  and 
lay  down,  deadly  sick,  amid  the  long  grass. 
I  suppose  the  time  was  then  about  four  or  five 
o'clock.  I  got  up  presently,  walked  perhaps 
half  a  mile  without  meeting  a  soul,  and  then 
lay  down  again  in  the  shadow  of  a  hedge.  I 
seem  to  remember  talking,  wanderingly,  to  my- 
self during  that  last  spurt.  I  was  also  very 
thirsty,  and  bitterly  regretful  I  had  drunk  no 

109 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

more  water.  It  is  a  curious  thing  that  I  felt 
angry  with  my  wife  ;  I  cannot  account  for  it, 
but  my  impotent  desire  to  reach  Leatherhead 
worried  me  excessively. 

I  do  not  clearly  remember  the  arrival  of  the 
curate,  so  that  I  probably  dozed.  I  became 
aware  of  him  as  a  seated  figure  in  soot-smudged 
shirt-sleeves,  and  with  his  upturned,  clean- 
shaven face  staring  at  a  faint  flickering  that 
danced  over  the  sky.  The  sky  was  what  is 
called  a  mackerel  sky — rows  and  rows  of  faint 
down-plumes  of  cloud,  just  tinted  with  the 
midsummer  sunset. 

I  sat  up,  and  at  the  rustle  of  my  motion  he 
looked  at  me  quickly. 

*'  Have  you  any  water  ?"  I  asked,  abruptly. 

He  shook  his  head. 

"  You  have  been  asking  for  water  for  the  last 
hour,"  he  said. 

For  a  moment  we  were  silent,  taking  stock 
of  each  other.  I  dare  say  he  found  me  a 
strange  enough  figure,  naked,  save  for  my 
water-soaked  trousers  and  socks,  scalded,  and 
my  face  and  shoulders  blackened  from  the 
smoke.  His  face  was  a  fair  weakness,  his  chin 
retreated,  and  his  hair  lay  in  crisp,  almost 
flaxen  curls  on  his  low  forehead  ;  his  eyes  were 
rather  large,  pale-blue,  and  blankly  staring.  He 
spoke  abruptly,  looking  vacantly  away  from  me. 

no 


WITH    THE    CURATE 

"  What  does  it  mean  ?"  he  said.  "  What  do 
these  things  mean  ?" 

I  stared  at  him  and  made  no  answer. 

He  extended  a  thin  white  hand  and  spoke  in 
almost  a  complaining  tone. 

"  Why  are  these  things  permitted  ?  What 
sins  have  we  done  ?  The  morning  service  was 
over,  I  was  walking  through  the  roads  to  clear 
my  brain  for  the  afternoon,  and  then — fire, 
earthquake,  death  !  As  if  it  were  Sodom  and 
Gomorrah  I  All  our  work  undone,  all  the 
work —    What  are  these  Martians  ?" 

"  What  are  we  ?"  I  answered,  clearing  my 
throat. 

He  gripped  his  knees  and  turned  to  look  at 
me  again.  For  half  a  minute,  perhaps,  he 
stared  silently. 

"  I  was  walking  through  the  roads  to  clear 
my  brain,"  he  said.  ''And  suddenly  —  fire, 
earthquake,  death  !" 

He  relapsed  into  silence,  with  his  chin  now 
sunken  almost  to  his  knees. 

Presently  he  began  waving  his  hand. 

"All  the  work — all  the  Sunday-schools — 
What  have  we  done  —  what  has  Weybridge 
done  ?  Everything  gone  —  everything  de- 
stroyed. The  church  I  We  rebuilt  it  only 
three  years  ago.  Gone  ! — swept  out  of  exist- 
ence !     Why  r 

III 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

Another  pause,  and  he  broke  out  again  like 
one  demented. 

"The  smoke  of  her  burning  goeth  up  for 
ever  and  ever  !"  he  shouted. 

His  eyes  flamed,  and  he  pointed  a  lean  finger 
in  the  direction  of  Weybridge. 

By  this  time  I  was  beginning  to  take  his 
measure.  The  tremendous  tragedy  in  which 
he  had  been  involved — it  was  evident  he  was  a 
fugitive  from  Weybridge — had  driven  him  to 
the  very  verge  of  his  reason. 

"Are  we  far  from  Sunbury?"  I  said,  in  a 
matter-of-fact  tone. 

"What  are  we  to  do  ?"  he  asked.  "  Are  these 
creatures  everywhere  ?  Has  the  earth  been 
given  over  to  them  ?" 

"  Are  we  far  from  Sunbury  ?" 

"  Only  this  morning  I  officiated  at  early  cele- 
bration— " 

"Things  have  changed,"  I  said,  quietly. 
"You  must  keep  your  head.  There  is  still 
hope." 

"  Hope !" 

"  Yes.  Plentiful  hope — for  all  this  destruc- 
tion !" 

I  began  to  explain  my  view  of  our  position. 
He  listened  at  first,  but  as  I  went  on  the  inter- 
est in  his  eyes  changed  to  their  former  stare, 
and  his  regard  wandered  from  me. 

112 


WITH    THE    CURATE 

"  This  must  be  the  beginning  of  the  end,"  he 
said,  interrupting  me.  *'  The  end  !  The  great 
and  terrible  day  of  the  Lord  !  When  men 
shall  call  upon  the  mountains  and  the  rocks 
to  fall  upon  them  and  hide  them — hide  them 
from  the  face  of  Him  that  sitteth  upon  the 
throne  !" 

I  began  to  understand  the  position.  I  ceased 
my  labored  reasoning,  struggled  to  my  feet, 
and,  standing  over  him,  laid  my  hand  on  his 
shoulder. 

"Be  a  man  !"  said  I.  **  You  are  scared  out 
of  your  wits !  What  good  is  religion  if  it 
collapses  at  calamity  ?  Think  of  what  earth- 
quakes and  floods,  wars  and  volcanoes,  have 
done  before  to  men  !  Did  you  think  God  had 
exempted  Weybridge?  He  is  not  an  insur- 
ance agent,  man." 

For  a  time  he  sat  in  blank  silence. 

"But  how  can  we  escape?"  he  asked,  sud- 
denly. "  They  are  invulnerable,  they  are  piti- 
less." 

"  Neither  the  one  nor,  perhaps,  the  other,"  I 
answered.  "And  the  mightier  they  are  the 
more  sane  and  wary  should  we  be.  One  of 
them  was  killed  yonder  not  three  hours  ago." 

"  Killed  !"  he  said,  staring  about  him.  "  How 
can  God's  ministers  be  killed  ?" 

"  I  saw  it  happen,"  I  proceeded  to  tell  him. 

H  113 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

**  We  have  chanced  to  come  in  for  the  thick  of 
it/'  said  I,  "and  that  is  all/' 

"  What  is  that  flicker  in  the  sky  ?"  he  asked, 
abruptly. 

I  told  him  it  was  the  heliograph  signalling — 
that  it  was  the  sign  of  human  help  and  effort 
in  the  sky. 

"We  are  in  the  midst  of  it,"  I  said,  "quiet 
as  it  is.  That  flicker  in  the  sky  tells  of  the 
gathering  storm.  Yonder,  I  take  it,  are  the 
Martians,  and  Londonward,  where  those  hills 
rise  about  Richmond  and  Kingston,  and  the 
trees  give  cover,  earthworks  are  being  thrown 
up  and  guns  are  being  placed.  Presently  the 
Martians  will  be  coming  this  way  again." 

And  even  as  I  spoke  he  sprang  to  his  feet 
and  stopped  me  by  a  gesture. 

"  Listen  !"  he  said. 

From  beyond  the  low  hills  across  the  water 
came  the  dull  resonance  of  distant  guns  and  a 
remote,  weird  crying.  Then  everything  was 
still.  A  cockchafer  came  droning  over  the 
hedge  and  past  us.  High  in  the  west  the  cres- 
cent moon  hung  faint  and  pale  above  the 
smoke  of  Weybridge  and  Shepperton  and  the 
hot,  still  splendor  of  the  sunset. 

"We  had  better  follow  this  path,"  I  said, 
"northward." 


XIV 
IN   LONDON 

My  younger  brother  was  in  London  when 
the  Martians  fell  at  Woking.  He  was  a  medi- 
cal student^  working  for  an  imminent  exami- 
nation, and  he  heard  nothing  of  the  arrival 
until  Saturday  morning.  The  morning  papers 
on  Saturday  contained,  in  addition  to  lengthy 
special  articles  on  the  planet  Mars,  on  life  in 
the  planets,  and  so  forth,  a  brief  and  vaguely 
worded  telegram,  all  the  more  striking  for  its 
brevity. 

The  Martians,  alarmed  by  the  approach  of  a 
crowd,  had  killed  a  number  of  people  with  a 
quick-firing  gun,  so  the  story  ran.  The  tele- 
gram concluded  with  the  words  :  "  Formida- 
ble as  they  seem  to  be,  the  Martians  have  not 
moved  from  the  pit  into  which  they  have 
fallen,  and,  indeed,  seem  incapable  of  doing  so. 
Probably  this  is  due  to  the  relative  strength 
of  the  earth's  gravitational  energy."  On  that 
last  text  their  leader-writer  expanded  very 
comfortingly. 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

Of  course,  all  the  students  in  the  crammer's 
biology  class,  to  which  my  brother  went  that 
day,  were  intensely  interested,  but  there  were 
no  signs  of  any  unusual  excitement  in  the 
streets.  The  afternoon  papers  puffed  scraps  of 
news  under  big  headlines.  They  had  nothing 
to  tell  beyond  the  movements  of  troops  about 
the  common,  and  the  burning  of  the  pine- 
woods  between  Woking  and  Weybridge,  until 
eight.  Then  the  5/.  James's  Gazette^  in  an 
extra  special  edition,  announced  the  bare  fact 
of  the  interruption  of  telegraphic  communica- 
tion. This  was  thought  to  be  due  to  the  fall- 
ing of  burning  pine-trees  across  the  line. 
Nothing  more  of  the  fighting  was  known  that 
night,  the  night  of  my  drive  to  Leatherhead 
and  back. 

My  brother  felt  no  anxiety  about  us,  as  he 
knew  from  the  description  in  the  papers  that 
the  cylinder  was  a  good  two  miles  from  my 
house.  He  made  up  his  mind  to  run  do^n 
that  night  to  me,  in  order,  as  he  says,  to  see 
the  Things  before  they  were  killed.  He  de- 
spatched a  telegram,  which  never  reached  me, 
about  four  o'clock,  and  spent  the  evening  at  a 
music-hall. 

In  London,  also,  on  Saturday  night  there 
was  a  thunder-storm,  and  my  brother  reached 
Waterloo    in  a  cab.     On   the    platform   from 

ii6 


IN    LONDON 

which  the  midnight  train  usually  starts  he 
learned,  after  some  waiting,  that  an  accident 
prevented  trains  from  reaching  Woking  that 
night.  The  nature  of  the  accident  he  could 
not  ascertain  ;  indeed,  the  railway  authorities 
did  not  clearly  know  at  that  time.  There  was 
very  little  excitement  in  the  station,  as  the 
officials,  failing  to  realize  that  anything  further 
than  a  breakdown  between  Byfleet  and  Wok- 
ing junction  had  occurred,  were  running  the 
theatre  trains,  which  usually  passed  through 
Woking,  round  by  Virginia  Water  or  Guild- 
ford. They  were  busy  making  the  necessary 
arrangements  to  alter  the  route  of  the  South- 
ampton and  Portsmouth  Sunday  League  ex- 
cursions. A  nocturnal  newspaper  reporter, 
mistaking  my  brother  for  the  traffic  manager, 
whom  he  resembles  to  a  slight  extent,  waylaid 
and  tried  to  interview  him.  Few  people,  ex- 
cepting the  railway  officials,  connected  the 
breakdown  with  the  Martians. 

I  have  read,  in  another  account  of  these 
events,  that  on  Sunday  morning  "  all  London 
was  electrified  by  the  news  from  Woking.*' 
As  a  matter  of  fact,  there  was  nothing  to 
justify  that  very  extravagant  phrase.  Plenty 
of  people  in  London  did  not  hear  of  the  Mar- 
tians until  the  panic  of  Monday  morning. 
Those  who  did  took  some  time  to  realize  all 

117 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

that  the  hastily  worded  telegrams  in  the  Sun- 
day papers  conveyed.  The  majority  of  people 
in  London  do  not  read  Sunday  papers. 

The  habit  of  personal  security,  moreover,  is 
so  deeply  fixed  in  the  Londoner's  mind,  and 
startling  intelligence  so  much  a  matter  of 
course  in  the  papers,  that  they  could  read 
without  any  personal  tremors  :  "  About  seven 
o'clock  last  night  the  Martians  came  out  of  the 
cylinder,  and,  moving  about  under  an  armor 
of  metallic  shields,  have  completely  wrecked 
Woking  station,  with  the  adjacent  houses,  and 
massacred  an  entire  battalion  of  the  Cardigan 
Regiment.  No  details  are  known.  Maxims 
have  been  absolutely  useless  against  their 
armor  ;  the  field-guns  have  been  disabled  by 
them.  Flying  hussars  have  been  galloping 
into  Chertsey.  The  Martians  appear  to  be 
moving  slowly  towards  Chertsey  or  Windsor. 
Great  anxiety  prevails  in  West  Surrey,  and 
earthworks  are  being  thrown  up  to  check  the 
advance  Londonwards."  That  was  how  the 
Sunday  Sun  put  it,  and  a  clever  and  remark- 
ably prompt  "hand-book"  article  in  the  Referee 
compared  the  affair  to  a  menagerie  suddenly 
let  loose  in  a  village. 

No  one  in  London  knew  positively  of  the 
nature  of  the  armored  Martians,  and  there  was 
still  a  fixed  idea  that  these  monsters  must  be 

ii8 


IN    LONDON 

sluggish:  "crawling/'  "creeping  painfully" — 
such  expressions  occurred  in  almost  all  the 
earlier  reports.  None  of  the  telegrams  could 
have  been  written  by  an  eye-witness  of  their 
advance.  The  Sunday  papers  printed  separate 
editions  as  further  news  came  to  hand,  some 
even  in  default  of  it.  But  there  was  practical- 
ly nothing  more  to  tell  people  until  late  in  the 
afternoon,  when  the  authorities  gave  the  press- 
agencies  the  news  in  their  possession.  It  was 
stated  that  the  people  of  Walton  and  Wey- 
bridge,  and  all  that  district,  were  pouring 
along  the  roads  Londonward,  and  that  was  all. 
My  brother  went  to  church  at  the  Foundling 
Hospital  in  the  morning,  still  in  ignorance  of 
what  had  happened  on  the  previous  night. 
There  he  heard  allusions  made  to  the  invasion^, 
and  a  special  prayer  for  peace.  Coming  out, 
he  bought  a  Referee.  He  became  alarmed  at 
the  news  in  this,  and  went  again  to  Waterloo 
station  to  find  out  if  communication  were 
restored.  The  omnibuses,  carriages,  cyclists, 
and  innumerable  pec^ple  walking  in  their  best 
clothes  seemed  scarcely  affected  by  the  strange 
intelligence  that  the  news-vendors  were  dis- 
seminating. People  were  interested,  or,  if 
alarmed,  alarmed  only  on  account  of  the  local 
residents.  At  the  station  he  heard  for  the  first 
time  that  the  Windsor  and  Chertsey  lines  were. 

119 


THE    WAR    OF  THE    WORLDS 

now  interrupted.  The  porters  told  him  that 
several  remarkable  telegrams  had  been  received 
in  the  morning  from  Byfleet  and  Chertsey  sta- 
tions, but  that  these  had  abruptly  ceased.  My 
brother  could  get  very  little  precise  detail  out 
of  them.  "There's  fighting  going  on  about 
Weybridge  "  was  the  extent  of  their  informa- 
tion. 

The  train  service  was  now  very  much  dis- 
organized. Quite  a  number  of  people  who 
had  been  expecting  friends  from  places  on  the 
South -Western  network  were  standing  about 
the  station.  One  gray-headed  old  gentleman 
came  and  abused  the  South-Western  Company 
bitterly  to  my  brother.  "It  wants  showing 
up/'  he  said. 

One  or  two  trains  came  in  from  Richmond, 
Putney,  and  Kingston,  containing  people  who 
had  gone  out  for  a  day's  boating,  and  found 
the  locks  closed  and  a  feeling  of  panic  in  the 
air.  A  man  in  a  blue -and -white  blazer  ad- 
dressed my  brother,  full  of  strange  tidings. 

"  There's  hosts  of  people  driving  into  Kings- 
ton in  traps  and  carts  and  things,  with  boxes 
of  valuables  and  all  that,"  he  said.  "  They 
come  from  Molesey  and  Weybridge  and  Wal- 
ton, and  they  say  there's  been  guns  heard  at 
Chertsey,  heavy  firing,  and  that  mounted  sol- 
diers have  told  them  to  get  off  at  once  because 

I20 


IN    LONDON 

the  Martians  are  coming.  We  heard  guns 
firing  at  Hampton  Court  station,  but  we 
thought  it  was  thunder.  What  the  dickens 
does  it  all  mean  ?  The  Martians  can't  get  out 
of  their  pit,  can  they  ?" 

My  brother  could  not  tell  him. 

Afterwards  he  found  that  the  vague  feeling 
of  alarm  had  spread  to  the  clients  of  the  un- 
derground railway,  and  that  the  Sunday  ex- 
cursionists began  to  return  from  all  the  South- 
Western  ''  lungs  " — Barnes,  Wimbledon,  Rich- 
mond Park,  Kew,  and  so  forth — at  unnaturally 
early  hours  ;  but  not  a  soul  had  anything  but 
vague  hearsay  to  tell  of.  Every  one  connected 
with  the  terminus  seemed  ill-tempered. 

About  five  o'clock  the  gathering  crowd  in 
the  station  was  immensely  excited  by  the 
opening  of  the  line  of  communication,  which 
is  almost  invariably  closed,  between  the  South- 
Eastern  and  the  South -Western  stations,  and 
the  passage  of  carriage  -  trucks  bearing  huge 
guns  and  carriages  crammed  with  soldiers. 
These  were  the  guns  that  were  brought  up 
from  Woolwich  and  Chatham  to  cover  King- 
ston. There  was  an  exchange  of  pleasan- 
tries :  "  You'll  get  eaten  !"  ''  We're  the  beast- 
tamers  !"  and  so  forth.  A  little  while  after 
that  a  squad  of  police  came  into  the  station 
and  began   to   clear  the  public  off  the  plat- 

121 


THE    WAR  OF    THE    WORLDS 

forms,  and  my  brother  went  out  into  the  street 
again. 

The  church  bells  were  ringing  for  evensong, 
and  a  squad  of  Salvation  Army  lasses  came 
singing  down  Waterloo  Road.  On  the  bridge 
a  number  of  loafers  were  watching  a  curious 
brown  scum  that  came  drifting  down  the 
stream  in  patches.  The  sun  was  just  setting, 
and  the  Clock  Tower  and  the  Houses  of  Par- 
liament rose  against  one  of  the  most  peaceful 
skies  it  is  possible  to  imagine,  a  sky  of  gold, 
barred  with  long  transverse  stripes  of  reddish- 
purple  cloud.  There  was  talk  of  a  floating 
body.  One  of  the  men  there,  a  reservist  he 
said  he  was,  told  my  brother  he  had  seen  the 
heliograph  flickering  in  the  west. 

In  Wellington  Street  my  brother  met  a 
couple  of  sturdy  roughs  who  had  just  rushed 
out  of  Fleet  Street  with  still  wet  newspapers 
and  staring  placards.  "  Dreadful  catastrophe  !" 
they  bawled  one  to  the  other  down  Wellington 
Street.  "Fighting  at  Weybridge !  Full  de- 
scription !  Repulse  of  the  Martians  !  London 
said  to  be  in  danger  !*'  He  had  to  give  three- 
pence for  a  copy  of  that  paper. 

Then  it  was,  and  then  only,  that  he  realized 
something  of  the  full  power  and  terror  of  these 
monsters.  He  learned  that  they  were  not 
merely  a  handful  of  small  sluggish  creatures, 

122 


IN    LONDON 

but  that  they  were  minds  swaying  vast  me- 
chanical bodies,  and  that  they  could  move 
swiftly  and  smite  with  such  power  that  even 
the  mightiest  guns  could  not  stand  against 
them. 

They  were  described  as  "vast  spider -like 
machines,  nearly  a  hundred  feet  high,  capable 
of  the  speed  of  an  express-train,  and  able  to 
shoot  out  a  beam  of  intense  heat/'  Masked 
batteries,  chiefly  of  field-guns,  had  been  plant- 
ed in  the  country  about  Horsell  Common,  and 
especially  between  the  Woking  district  and 
London.  Five  of  the  machines  had  been  seen 
moving  towards  the  Thames,  and  one,  by  a 
freak  of  chance,  had  been  destroyed.  In  the 
other  cases  the  shells  had  missed,  and  the  bat- 
teries had  been  at  once  annihilated  by  the 
Heat-Rays.  Heavy  losses  of  soldiers  were  men- 
tioned, but  the  tone  of  the  despatch  was  opti- 
mistic. 

The  Martians  had  been  repulsed  ;  they  were 
not  invulnerable.  They  had  retreated  to  their 
triangle  of  cylinders  again,  in  the  circle  about 
Woking.  Signallers  with  heliographs  were 
pushing  forward  upon  them  from  all  sides. 
Guns  were  in  rapid  transit  from  Windsor, 
Portsmouth,  Aldershot,  Woolwich — even  from 
the  north;  among  others,  long  wire  -  guns  of 
ninety -five  tons  from  Woolwich.    Altogether 

123 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

one  hundred  and  sixteen  were  in  position  or 
being  hastily  placed,  chiefly  covering  London. 
Never  before  in  England  had  there  been  such 
a  vast  or  rapid  concentration  of  military  ma- 
terial. 

Any  further  cylinders  that  fell,  it  was  hoped, 
could  be  destroyed  at  once  by  high  explosives, 
which  were  being  rapidly  manufactured  and 
distributed.  No  doubt,  ran  the  report,  the 
situation  was  of  the  strangest  and  gravest  de- 
scription, but  the  public  was  exhorted  to  avoid 
and  discourage  panic.  No  doubt  the  Martians 
were  strange  and  terrible  in  the  extreme,  but 
at  the  outside  there  could  not  be  more  than 
twenty  of  them  against  our  millions. 

The  authorities  had  reason  to  suppose,  from 
the  size  of  the  cylinders,  that  at  the  outside 
there  could  not  be  more  than  five  in  each 
cylinder — fifteen  altogether.  And  one  at  least 
was  disposed  of  —  perhaps  more.  The  public 
would  be  fairly  warned  of  the  approach  of  dan- 
ger, and  elaborate  measures  were  being  taken 
for  the  protection  of  the  people  in  the  threat- 
ened southwestern  suburbs.  And  so,  with  re- 
iterated assurances  of  the  safety  of  London 
and  the  confidence  of  the  authorities  to  cope 
with  the  difficulty,  this  quasi  -  proclamation 
closed. 

This  was  printed  in  enormous  type,  on  paper 

124 


IN    LONDON 

so  fresh  that  it  was  still  wet,  and  there  had  been 
no  time  to  add  a  word  of  comment.  It  was  curi- 
ous, my  brother  said,  to  see  how  ruthlessly  the 
other  contents  of  the  paper  had  been  hacked 
and  taken  out  to  give  this  place. 

All  down  Wellington  Street  people  could  be 
seen  fluttering  out  the  pink  sheets  and  read- 
ing, and  the  Strand  was  suddenly  noisy  with 
the  voices  of  an  army  of  hawkers  following 
these  pioneers.  Men  came  scrambling  off  buses 
to  secure  copies.  Certainly  this  news  excited 
people  intensely,  whatever  their  previous  apa- 
thy. The  shutters  of  a  map-shop  in  the  Strand 
were  being  taken  down,  my  brother  said,  and 
a  man  in  his  Sunday  raiment,  lemon  -  yellow 
gloves  even,  was  visible  inside  the  window, 
hastily  fastening  maps  of  Surrey  to  the 
glass.  ' 

Going  on  along  the  Strand  to  Trafalgar 
Square,  the  paper  in  his  hand,  my  brother 
saw  some  of  the  fugitives  from  West  Surrey. 
There  was  a  man  with  his  wife  and  two  boys 
and  some  articles  of  furniture  in  a  cart  such 
as  green-grocers  use.  He  was  driving  from 
the  direction  of  Westminster  Bridge,  and  close 
behind  him  came  a  hay  -  wagon  with  five  or 
six  respectable-looking  people  in  it,  and  some 
boxes  and  bundles.  The  faces  of  these  people 
were  haggard,  and  their  entire  appearance  con- 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

trasted  conspicuously  with  the  Sabbath -best 
appearance  of  the  people  on  the  omnibuses. 
People  in  fashionable  clothing  peeped  at  them 
out  of  cabs.  They  stopped  at  the  Square  as 
if  undecided  which  way  to  take,  and  finally 
turned  eastward  along  the  Strand.  Some  way 
after  these  came  a  man  in  work-day  clothes, 
riding  one  of  those  old-fashioned  tricycles 
with  a  small  front-wheel.  He  was  dirty  and 
white  in  the  face. 

My  brother  turned  down  towards  Victoria, 
and  met  a  number  of  such  people.  He  had  a 
vague  idea  that  he  might  see  something  of 
me.  He  noticed  an  unusual  number  of  police 
regulating  the  traffic.  Some  of  the  refugees 
were  exchanging  news  with  the  people  on  the 
omnibuses.  One  was  professing  to  have  seen 
the  Martians.  "Boilers  on  stilts,  I  tell  you, 
striding  along  like  men.'*  Most  of  them  were 
excited  and  animated  by  their  strange  ex- 
perience. 

Beyond  Victoria  the  public-houses  were  do- 
ing a  lively  trade  with  these  arrivals.  At  all 
the  street  corners  groups  of  people  were  read- 
ing papers,  talking  excitedly,  or  staring  at 
these  unusual  Sunday  visitors.  They  seemed 
to  increase  as  night  drew  on,  until  at  last 
the  roads,  my  brother  said,  were  like  Epsom 
High  Street  on  a  Derby  Day.     My  brother 

126 


IN    LONDON 

addressed  several  of  these  fugitives  and  got 
unsatisfactory  answers  from  most. 

None  of  them  could  tell  him  any  news  of 
Woking  except  one  man,  who  assured  him  that 
Woking  had  been  entirely  destroyed  on  the 
previous  night. 

"  I  come  from  Byfleet/'  he  said ;  "  a  man  on 
a  bicycle  came  through  the  place  in  the  early 
morning,  and  ran  from  door  to  door  warning 
us  to  come  away.  Then  came  soldiers.  We 
^ent  out  to  look,  and  there  were  clouds  of 
smoke  to  the  south — nothing  but  smoke,  and 
not  a  soul  coming  that  way.  Then  we  heard 
the  guns  at  Chertsey,  and  folks  coming  from 
Weybridge.  So  I've  locked  up  my  house  and 
come  on." 

At  that  time  there  was  a  strong  feeling  in 
the  streets  that  the  authorities  were  to  blame 
for  their  incapacity  to  dispose  of  the  invaders 
without  all  this  inconvenience. 

About  eight  o'clock  a  noise  of  heavy  firing 
was  distinctly  audible  all  over  the  south  of 
London.  My  brother  could  not  hear  it  for  the 
traffic  in  the  main  streets,  but  by  striking 
through  the  quiet  back-streets  to  the  river  he 
was  able  to  distinguish  it  quite  plainly. 

He  walked  back  from  Westminster  to  his 
apartments,  near  Regent's  Park,  about  two. 
He  was  now  very  anxious  on  my  account,  and 

127 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

disturbed  at  the  evident  magnitude  of  the 
trouble.  His  mind  was  inclined  to  run,  even 
as  mine  had  run  on  Saturday,  on  military  de- 
tails. He  thought  of  all  those  silent,  expectant 
guns,  of  the  suddenly  nomadic  country-side  ; 
he  tried  to  imagine  "  boilers  on  stilts  "  a  hun- 
dred feet  high. 

There  were  one  or  two  cart-loads  of  refugees 
passing  along  Oxford  Street,  and  several  in 
the  Marylebone  Road,  but  so  slowly  was  the 
news  spreading  that  Regent  Street  and  Port- 
land Road  were  full  of  their  usual  Sunday- 
night  promenaders,  albeit  they  talked  in  groups, 
and  along  the  edge  of  Regent's  Park  there 
were  as  many  silent  couples  ^'walking  out'* 
together  under  the  scattered  gas-lamps  as  ever 
there  had  been.  The  night  was  warm  and 
still,  and  a  little  oppressive  ;  the  sound  of  guns 
continued  intermittently,  and  after  midnight 
there  seemed  to  be  sheet  -  lightning  in  the 
south. 

He  read  and  reread  the  paper,  fearing  the 
worst  had  happened  to  me.  He  was  restless, 
and  after  supper  prowled  out  again  aimlessly. 
He  returned  and  tried  to  divert — but  in  vain 
— his  attention  by  his  examination  notes.  He 
went  to  bed  a  little  after  midnight,  and  he  was 
awakened  out  of  some  lurid  dreams  in  the  small 
hours  of  Monday  by  the  sound  of  door-knock- 


IN    LONDON 

ers,  feet  running  in  the  street,  distant  drum- 
ming, and  a  clamor  of  bells.  Red  reflections 
danced  on  the  ceiling.  For  a  moment  he  lay 
astonished,  wondering  whether  day  had  come 
or  the  world  had  gone  mad.  Then  he  jumped 
out  of  bed  and  ran  to  the  window. 

His  room  was  an  attic,  and  as  he  thrust  his 
head  out,  up  and  down  the  street  there  were  a 
dozen  echoes  to  the  noise  of  his  window-sash, 
and  heads  in  every  kind  of  night  disarray  ap- 
peared. Inquiries  were  being  shouted.  '^They 
are  coming !"  bawled  a  policeman,  hammering 
at  the  door  ;  *^the  Martians  are  coming  !'*  and 
hurried  to  the  next  door. 

The  noise  of  drumming  and  trumpeting 
came  from  the  Albany  Street  Barracks,  and 
every  church  within  earshot  was  hard  at  work 
killing  sleep  with  a  vehement  disorderly  toc- 
sin. There  was  a  noise  of  doors  opening,  and 
window  after  window  in  the  houses  opposite 
flashed  from  darkness  into  yellow  illumination. 

Up  the  street  came  galloping  a  closed  car- 
riage, bursting  abruptly  into  noise  at  the  cor- 
ner, rising  to  a  clattering  climax  under  the 
window,  and  dying  away  slowly  in  the  distance. 
Close  on  the  rear  of  this  came  a  couple  of  cabs, 
the  forerunners  of  a  long  procession  of  flying 
vehicles,  going  for  the  most  part  to  Chalk 
Farm  station,  where  the  North- Western  special 
I  129 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

trains  were  loading  up,  instead  of  coming  down 
the  gradient  into  Euston. 

For  a  long  time  my  brother  stared  out  of 
the  window  in  blank  astonishment,  watching 
the  policemen  hammering  at  door  after  door, 
and  delivering  their  incomprehensible  mes- 
sage. Then  the  door  behind  him  opened,  and 
the  man  who  lodged  across  the  landing  came 
in,  dressed  only  in  shirt,  trousers,  and  slippers, 
his  braces  loose  about  his  waist,  his  hair  dis- 
ordered from  his  pillow. 

"What  the  devil  is  it?"  he  asked.  ''A  fire? 
What  a  devil  of  a  row  !" 

They  both  craned  their  heads  out  of  the 
window,  straining  to  hear  what  the  policemen 
were  shouting.  People  were  coming  out  of 
the  side-streets,  and  standing  in  groups  at  the 
corners  talking. 

"  What  the  devil  is  it  all  about  ?"  said  my 
brother's  fellow-lodger. 

My  brother  answered  him  vaguely  and  be- 
gan to  dress,  running  with  each  garment  to 
the  window  in  order  to  miss  nothing  of  the 
growing  excitement  of  the  streets.  And  pres- 
ently men  selling  unnaturally  early  newspa- 
pers came  bawling  into  the  street : 

"  London  in  danger  of  suffocation  !  The 
Kingston  and  Richmond  defences  forced!  Fear- 
ful massacres  in  the  Thames  Valley  !" 

130 


IN    LONDON 

And  all  about  him  —  in  the  rooms  below, 
in  the  houses  on  each  side  and  across  the 
road,  and  behind  in  the  Park  Terraces  and 
in  the  hundred  other  streets  of  that  part  of 
Marylebone,  and  the  Westbourne  Park  dis- 
trict and  St.  Pancras,  and  westward  and 
northward  in  Kilburn  and  St.  John^s  Wood 
and  Hampstead,  and  eastward  in  Shoreditch 
and  Highbury  and  Haggerston  and  Hox- 
ton,  and,  indeed,  through  all  the  vastness  of 
London  from  Ealing  to  East  Ham — people 
were  rubbing  their  eyes,  and  opening  windows 
to  stare  out  and  ask  aimless  questions,  and 
dressing  hastily  as  the  first  breath  of  the  com- 
ing storm  of  Fear  blew  through  the  streets. 
It  was  the  dawn  of  the  great  panic.  London, 
which  had  gone  to  bed  on  Sunday  night  stupid 
and  inert,  was  awakened  in  the  small  hours  of 
Monday  morning  to  a  vivid  sense  of  danger. 

Unable  from  his  window  to  learn  what  was 
happening,  my  brother  went  down  and  out 
into  the  street,  just  as  the  sky  between  the 
parapets  of  the  houses  grew  pink  with  the 
early  dawn.  The  flying  people  on  foot  and  in 
vehicles  grew  more  numerous  every  moment. 
**  Black  Smoke  !"  he  heard  people  crying,  and 
again  "  Black  Smoke  !"  The  contagion  of  such 
a  unanimous  fear  was  inevitable.  As  my 
brother  hesitated  on  the  door-step,  he  saw  an- 

131 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

other  news-vender  approaching  him,  and  got  a 
copy  forthwith.  The  man  was  running  away 
with  the  rest,  and  selling  his  papers  for  a  shil- 
ling each  as  he  ran  —  a  grotesque  mingling  of 
profit  and  panic. 

And  from  this  paper  my  brother  read  that 
catastrophic  despatch  of  the  Commander-in- 
Chief  : 

"The  Martians  are  able  to  discharge  enormous 
clouds  of  a  black  and  poisonous  vapor  by  means  of 
rockets.  They  have  smothered  our  batteries,  de- 
stroyed Richmond,  Kingston,  and  Wimbledon,  and 
are  advancing  slowly  towards  London,  destroying 
everything  on  the  way.  It  is  impossible  to  stop  them. 
There  is  no  safety  from  the  Black  Smoke  but  in  in- 
stant flight." 

That  was  all,  but  it  was  enough.  The  whole 
population  of  the  great  six  -  million  city  was 
stirring,  slipping,  running  ;  presently  it  would 
be  pouring  e7i  masse  northward. 

"  Black  Smoke  !"  the  voices  cried.  "  Fire  !" 
The  bells  of  the  neighboring  church  made 
a  jangling  tumult,  a  cart  carelessly  driven 
smashed,  amid  shrieks  and  curses,  against  the 
water  -  trough  up  the  street.  Sickly  yellow 
light  went  to  and  fro  in  the  houses,  and  some 
of  the  passing  cabs  flaunted  unextinguished 
lamps.  And  overhead  the  dawn  was  growing 
brighter,  clear  and  steady  and  calm. 

132 


IN    LONDON 

He  heard  footsteps  ninning  to  and  fro  in 
the  rooms,  and  up  and  down  stairs  behind  him. 
His  landlady  came  to  the  door,  loosely  wrapped 
in  dressing-gown  and  shawl  ;  her  husband  fol- 
lowed ejaculating. 

As  my  brother  began  to  realize  the  import 
of  all  these  things,  he  turned  hastily  to  his  own 
room,  put  all  his  available  money — some  ten 
pounds  altogether — into  his  pockets,  and  went 
out  again  into  the  streets. 


XV 

WHAT  HAD   HAPPENED   IN    SURREY 

It  was  while  the  curate  had  sat  and  talked 
so  wildly  to  me  under  the  hedge  in  the  flat 
meadows  near  Halliford,  and  while  my  brother 
was  watching  the  fugitives  stream  over  West- 
minster Bridge,  that  the  Martians  had  resumed 
the  offensive.  So  far  as  one  can  ascertain  from 
the  conflicting  accounts  that  have  been  put 
forth,  the  majority  of  them  remained  busied 
with  preparations  in  the  Horsell  pit  until 
nine  that  night,  hurrying  on  some  opera- 
tion that  disengaged  huge  volumes  of  green 
smoke. 

But  three  certainly  came  out  about  eight 
o'clock,  and,  advancing  slowly  and  cautiously, 
made  their  way  through  Byfleet  and  Pyrford 
towards  Ripley  and  Weybridge,  and  so  came  in 
sight  of  the  expectant  batteries  against  the  set- 
ting sun.  These  Martians  did  not  advance  in 
a  body,  but  in  a  line,  each  perhaps  a  mile  and 
a  half  from  his  nearest  fellow.  They  commu- 
nicated with  one  another  by  means  of  siren- 

134 


IN    SURREY 

like  howls,  running  up  and  down  the  scale  from 
one  note  to  another. 

It  was  this  howling  and  the  firing  of  the 
guns  at  Ripley  and  St.  George's  Hill  that  we 
had  heard  at  Upper  Halliford.  The  Ripley 
gunners,  unseasoned  artillery  volunteers  who 
ought  never  to  have  been  placed  in  such  a 
position,  fired  one  wild,  premature,  ineffectual 
volley,  and  bolted  on  horse  and  foot  through 
the  deserted  village,  and  the  Martian  walked 
over  their  guns  serenely,  without  using  his 
Heat-Ray,  stepped  gingerly  among  them, 
passed  in  front  of  them,  and  so  came  unex- 
pectedly upon  the  guns  in  Painshill  Park, 
which  he  destroyed. 

The  St.  George's  Hill  men,  however,  were 
better  led  or  of  a  better  mettle.  Hidden  by  a 
pine -wood,  as  they  were,  they  seem  to  have 
been  quite  unexpected  by  the  Martian  nearest 
to  them.  They  laid  their  guns  as  deliberately 
as  if  they  had  been  on  parade,  and  fired  at 
about  a  thousand  yards  range. 

The  shells  flashed  all  round  the  Martian,  and 
he  was  seen  to  advance  a  few  paces,  stagger, 
and  go  down.  Everybody  yelled  together,  and 
the  guns  were  reloaded  in  frantic  haste.  The 
overthrown  Martian  set  up  a  prolonged  ulula- 
tion,  and  immediately  a  second  glittering  giant, 
answering  him,  appeared  over  the  trees  to  the 

135 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

south.  It  would  seem  that  a  leg  of  the  tripod 
had  been  smashed  by  one  of  the  shells.  The 
whole  of  the  second  volley  flew  wide  of  the 
Martian  on  the  ground,  and,  simultaneously, 
both  his  companions  brought  their  Heat-Rays 
to  bear  on  the  battery.  The  ammunition  blew 
up,  the  pine-trees  all  about  the  guns  flashed 
into  fire,  and  only  one  or  two  of  the  men  who 
were  already  running  over  the  crest  of  the  hill 
escaped. 

After  this  it  would  seem  that  the  three  took 
counsel  together  and  halted,  and  the  scouts 
who  were  watching  them  report  that  they 
remained  absolutely  stationary  for  the  next 
half-hour.  The  Martian  who  had  been  over- 
thrown crawled  tediously  out  of  his  hood,  a 
small  brown  figure,  oddly  suggestive  from  that 
distance  of  a  speck  of  blight,  and  apparently 
engaged  in  the  repair  of  his  support.  About 
nine  he  had  finished,  for  his  cowl  was  then 
seen  above  the  trees  again. 

It  was  a  few  minutes  past  nine  that  night 
when  these  three  sentinels  were  joined  by  four 
other  Martians,  each  carrying  a  thick  black 
tube.  A  similar  tube  was  handed  to  each  of 
the  three,  and  the  seven  proceeded  to  distribute 
themselves  at  equal  distances  along  a  curved 
line  between  St.  George's  Hill,  Weybridge,  and 
the  village  of  Send,  southwest  *of  Ripley. 

136 


IN    SURREY 

A  dozen  rockets  sprang  out  of  the  hills  be- 
fore them  so  soon  as  they  began  to  move,  and 
warned  the  waiting  batteries  about  Ditton  and 
Esher.  At  the  same  time  four  of  their  fighting 
machines,  similarly  armed  with  tubes,  crossed 
the  river,  and  two  of  them,  black  against  the 
western  sky,  came  into  sight  of  myself  and 
the  curate  as  we  hurried  wearily  and  painfully 
along  the  road  that  runs  northward  out  of 
Halliford.  They  moved,  as  it  seemed  to  us, 
upon  a  cloud,  for  a  milky  mist  covered  the 
fields  and  rose  to  a  third  of  their  height. 

At  this  sight  the  curate  cried  faintly  in  his 
throat,  and  began  running  ;  but  I  knew  it  was 
no  good  running  from  a  Martian,  and  I  turned 
aside  and  crawled  through  dewy  nettles  and 
brambles  into  the  broad  ditch  by  the  side  of 
the  road.  He  looked  back,  saw  what  I  was 
doing,  and  turned  to  join  me. 

The  two  Martians  halted,  the  nearer  to  us 
standing  and  facing  Sunbury,  the  remoter  being 
a  gray  indistinctness  towards  the  evening  star, 
away  towards  Staines. 

The  occasional  howling  of  the  Martians  had 
ceased  ;  they  took  up  their  positions  in  the 
huge  crescent  about  their  cylinders  in  absolute 
silence.  It  was  a  crescent  with  twelve  miles 
between  its  horns.  Never  since  the  devising 
of  gunpowder  was  the  beginning  of  a  battle  so 

137 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

still.  To  us  and  to  an  observer  about  Ripley 
it  would  have  had  preciselj^-  the  same  effect  — 
the  Martians  seemed  in  solitary  possession  of 
the  darkling  night,  lit  only  as  it  was  by  the 
slender  moon,  the  stars,  the  after-glow  of  the 
daylight,  and  the  ruddy  glare  from  St.  George's 
Hill  and  the  woods  of  Painshill. 

But  facing  that  crescent  everywhere — at 
Staines,  Hounslow,  Ditton,  Esher,  Ockham, 
behind  hills  and  woods  south  of  the  river,  and 
across  the  flat  grass  meadows  to  the  north  of 
it,  wherever  a  cluster  of  trees  or  village  houses 
gave  sufficient  cover — the  guns  were  waiting. 
The  signal  rockets  burst  and  rained  their 
sparks  through  the  night  and  vanished,  and 
the  spirit  of  all  those  watching  batteries  rose 
to  a  tense  expectation.  The  Martians  had  but 
to  advance  into  the  line  of  fire,  and  instantly 
those  motionless  black  forms  of  men,  those 
guns  glittering  so  darkly  in  the  early  night, 
would  explode  into  a  thunderous  fury  of  battle. 

No  doubt  the  thought  that  was  uppermost 
in  a  thousand  of  those  vigilant  minds,  even  as 
it  was  uppermost  in  mine,  was  the  riddle — how 
much  they  understood  of  us.  Did  they  grasp 
that  we  in  our  millions  were  organized,  disci- 
plined, working  together  ?  Or  did  they  inter- 
pret our  spurts  of  fire,  the  sudden  stinging  of 
our  shells,  our  steady  investment  of  their  en- 

138 


IN    SURREY 

campment,  as  we  should  the  furious  unanimity 
of  onslaught  in  a  disturbed  hive  of  bees  ?  Did 
they  dream  they  might  exterminate  us?  (At 
that  time  no  one  knew  what  food  they  needed.) 
A  hundred  such  questions  struggled  together 
in  my  mind  as  I  watched  that  vast  sentinel 
shape.  And  in  the  back  of  my  mind  was  the 
sense  of  all  the  huge  unknown  and  hidden 
forces  Londonward.  Had  they  prepared  pit- 
falls? Were  the  powder-mills  at  Hounslow 
ready  as  a  snare  ?  Would  the  Londoners  have 
the  heart  and  courage  to  make  a  greater  Mos- 
cow of  their  mighty  province  of  houses  ? 

Then,  after  an  interminable  time,  as  it  seemed 
to  us,  crouching  and  peering  through  the  hedge, 
came  a  sound  like  the  distant  concussion  of  a 
gun.  Another  nearer,  and  then  another.  And 
then  the  Martian  beside  us  raised  his  tube  on 
high  and  discharged  it,  gunwise,  with  a  heavy 
report  that  made  the  ground  heave.  The  Mar- 
tian towards  Staines  answered  him.  There  was 
no  flash,  no  smoke,  simply  that  loaded  detona- 
tion. 

I  was  so  excited  by  these  heavy  minute-guns 
following  one  another  that  I  so  far  forgot  my 
personal  safety  and  my  scalded  hands  as  to 
clamber  up  into  the  hedge  and  stare  towards 
Sunbury.  As  I  did  so  a  second  report  fol- 
lowed, and  a  big  projectile  hurtled  overhead 

139 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

towards  Hounslow.  I  expected  at  least  to  see 
smoke  or  fire,  or  some  such  evidence  of  its 
work.  But  all  I  saw  was  the  deep -blue  sky 
above,  with  one  solitary  star,  and  the  white 
mist  spreading  wide  and  low  beneath.  And 
there  had  been  no  crash,  no  answering  explo- 
sion. The  silence  was  restored  ;  the  minute 
lengthened  to  three. 

"  What  has  happened  ?"  said  the  curate,  stand- 
ing up  beside  me. 

"  Heaven  knows  !"  said  I. 

A  bat  flickered  by  and  vanished.  A  distant 
tumult  of  shouting  began  and  ceased.  I  looked 
again  at  the  Martian,  and  saw  he  was  now 
moving  eastward  along  the  river-bank,  with  a 
swift,  rolling  motion. 

Every  moment  I  expected  the  fire  of  some 
hidden  battery  to  spring  upon  him  ;  but  the 
evening  calm  was  unbroken.  The  figure  of 
the  Martian  grew  smaller  as  he  receded,  and 
presently  the  mist  and  the  gathering  night  had 
swallowed  him  up.  By  a  common  impulse  we 
clambered  higher.  Towards  Sunbury  was  a 
dark  appearance,  as  though  a  conical  hill  had 
suddenly  come  into  being  there,  hiding  our 
view  of  the  farther  country  ;  and  then,  remoter 
across  the  river,  over  Walton,  we  saw  another 
such  summit.  These  hill-like  forms  grew  lower 
and  broader  even  as  we  stared. 

140 


IN    SURREY 

Moved  by  a  sudden  thought,  I  looked  north- 
ward, and  there  I  perceived  a  third  of  these 
cloudy  black  kopjes  had  arisen. 

Everything  had  suddenly  become  very  stilL 
Far  away  to  the  southeast,  marking  the  quiet, 
we  heard  the  Martians  hooting  to  one  another, 
and  then  the  air  quivered  again  with  the  dis- 
tant thud  of  their  guns.  But  the  earthly  ar- 
tillery made  no  reply. 

Now  at  the  time  we  could  not  understand 
these  things,  but  later  I  was  to  learn  the 
meaning  of  these  ominous  kopjes  that  gath- 
ered in  the  twilight.  Each  of  the  Martians, 
standing  in  the  great  crescent  I  have  described, 
had  discharged,  by  means  of  the  gun-like  tube 
he  carried,  a  huge  canister  over  whatever  hill, 
copse,  cluster  of  houses,  or  other  possible 
cover  for  guns,  chanced  to  be  in  front  of  him. 
Some  fired  only  one  of  these,  some  two — as  in 
the  case  of  the  one  we  had  seen  ;  the  one  at 
Ripley  is  said  to  have  discharged  no  fewer 
than  five  at  that  time.  These  canisters 
smashed  on  striking  the  ground — they  did  not 
explode  —  and  incontinently  disengaged  an 
enormous  volume  of  a  heavy,  inky  vapor,  coil- 
ing and  pouring  upward  in  a  huge  and  ebony 
cumulus  cloud,  a  gaseous  hill  that  sank  and 
spread  itself  slowly  over  the  surrounding  coun- 
try.    And  the  touch  of  that  vapor,  the  inhal- 

141 


THE    WAR    OF   THE    WORLDS 

ing  of  its  pungent  wisps,  was  death  to  all  that 
breathes. 

It  was  heavy,  this  vapor,  heavier  than  the 
densest  smoke,  so  that,  after  the  first  tumultu- 
ous uprush  and  outflow  of  its  impact,  it  sank 
down  through  the  air  and  poured  over  the 
ground  in  a  manner  rather  liquid  than  gas- 
eous, abandoning  the  hills,  and  streaming  into 
the  valleys  and  ditches  and  water  -  courses, 
even  as  I  have  heard  the  carbonic  -  acid  gas 
that  pours  from  volcanic  clefts  is  wont  to  do. 
And  where  it  came  upon  water  some  chemical 
action  occurred,  and  the  surface  would  be  in- 
stantly covered  with  a  powdery  scum  that 
sank  slowly  and  made  way  for  more.  The 
scum  was  absolutely  insoluble,  and  it  is  a 
strange  thing,  seeing  the  instant  effect  of  the 
gas,  that  one  could  drink  without  hurt  the 
water  from  which  it  had  been  strained.  The 
vapor  did  not  diffuse  as  a  true  gas  would  do. 
It  hung  together  in  banks,  flowing  sluggishly 
down  the  slope  of  the  land  and  driving  re- 
luctantly before  the  wind,  and  very  slowly  it 
combined  with  the  mist  and  moisture  of  the 
air,  and  sank  to  the  earth  in  the  form  of  dust. 
Save  that  an  unknown  element  giving  a  group 
of  four  lines  in  the  blue  of  the  spectrum  is 
concerned,  we  are  still  entirely  ignorant  of  the 
nature  of  this  substance. 

142 


IN    SURREY 

Once  the  tumultuous  upheaval  of  its  disper- 
sion was  over,  the  black  smoke  clung  so  closely 
to  the  ground,  even  before  its  precipitation, 
that,  fifty  feet  up  in  the  air,  on  the  roofs  and 
upper  stories  of  high  houses,  and  on  great  trees, 
there  was  a  chance  of  escaping  its  poison  alto- 
gether, as  was  proved  even  that  night  at  Street 
Cobham  and  Ditton. 

The  man  who  escaped  at  the  former  place 
tells  a  wonderful  story  of  the  strangeness  of 
its  coiling  flow,  and  how  he  looked  down  from 
the  church  spire  and  saw  the  houses  of  the  vil- 
lage rising  like  ghosts  out  of  its  inky  nothing- 
ness. For  a  day  and  a  half  he  remained  there, 
weary,  starving  and  sun  -  scorched,  the  earth 
under  the  blue  sky  and  against  the  prospect  of 
the  distant  hills  a  velvet  black  expanse,  with 
red  roofs,  green  trees,  and,  later,  black-veiled 
shrubs  and  gates,  barns,  out-houses,  and  walls, 
rising  here  and  there  into  the  sunlight. 

But  that  was  at  Street  Cobham,  where  the 
black  vapor  was  allowed  to  remain  until  it 
sank  of  its  own  accord  into  the  ground.  As  a 
rule,  the  Martians,  when  it  had  served  its  pur- 
pose, cleared  the  air  of  it  again  by  wading  into 
it  and  directing  a  jet  of  steam  upon  it. 

This  they  did  with  the  vapor-banks  near  us, 
as  we  saw  in  the  starlight  from  the  window  of 
a  deserted  house  at  Upper  Halliford,  whither 

143 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

we  had  returned.  From  there  we  could  see 
the  search-lights  on  Richmond  Hill  and  Kings- 
ton Hill  going  to  and  fro,  and  about  eleven 
the  window  rattled,  and  we  heard  the  sound  of 
the  huge  siege  guns  that  had  been  put  in  po- 
sition there.  These  continued  intermittently 
for  the  space  of  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  sending 
chance  shots  at  the  invisible  Martians  at 
Hampton  and  Ditton,  and  then  the  pale  beams 
of  the  electric  light  vanished,  and  were  replaced 
by  a  bright  red  glow. 

Then  the  fourth  cylinder  fell  —  a  brilliant 
green  meteor  —  as  I  learned  afterwards,  in 
Bushey  Park.  Before  the  guns  on  the  Rich- 
mond and  Kingston  line  of  hills  began,  there 
was  a  fitful  cannonade  far  away  in  the  south- 
west, due,  I  believe,  to  guns  being  fired  hap- 
hazard before  the  black  vapor  could  over- 
whelm the  gunners. 

So,  setting  about  it  as  methodically  as  men 
might  smoke  out  a  wasps'  nest,  the  Martians 
spread  this  strange  stifling  vapor  over  the 
Londonward  country.  The  horns  of  the  cres- 
cent slowly  spread  apart,  until  at  last  they 
formed  a  line  from  Hanwell  to  Coombe  and 
Maiden.  All  night  through  their  destructive 
tubes  advanced.  Never  once,  after  the  Mar- 
tian at  St.  George's  Hill  was  brought  down, 
did  they  give  the  artillery  the  ghost  of  a  chance 

144 


IN    SURREY 

against  them.  Wherever  there  was  a  possi- 
bility of  guns  being  laid  for  them  unseen,  a 
fresh  canister  of  the  black  vapor  was  dis- 
charged, and  where  the  guns  were  openly  dis- 
played the  Heat-Ray  was  brought  to  bear. 

By  midnight  the  blazing  trees  along  the 
slopes  of  Richmond  Park  and  the  glare  of 
Kingston  Hill  threw  their  light  upon  a  net- 
work of  black  smoke,  blotting  out  the  whole 
Valley  of  the  Thames  and  extending  as  far  as 
the  eye  could  reach.  And  through  this  two 
Martians  slowly  waded,  and  turned  their  his- 
sing steam-jets  this  way  and  that. 

The  Martians  were  sparing  of  the  Heat-Ray 
that  night,  either  because  they  had  but  a  lim- 
ited supply  of  material  for  its  production  or 
because  they  did  not  wish  to  destroy  the  coun- 
try, but  only  to  crush  and  overawe  the  opposi- 
tion they  had  aroused.  In  the  latter  aim  they 
certainly  succeeded.  Sunday  night  was  the 
end  of  the  organized  opposition  to  their  move- 
ments. After  that  no  body  of  men  could  stand 
against  them,  so  hopeless  was  the  enterprise. 
Even  the  crews  of  the  torpedo-boats  and  de- 
stroyers that  had  brought  their  quick-firers 
up  the  Thames  refused  to  stop,  mutinied,  and 
went  down  again.  The  only  offensive  opera- 
tion men  ventured  upon  after  that  night  was 
the  preparation  of  mines  and  pitfalls,  and 
K  145 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

even  in  that  men's  energies  were  frantic  and 
spasmodic. 

One  has  to  imagine,  as  well  as  one  may,  the 
fate  of  those  batteries  towards  Esher,  waiting 
so  tensely  in  the  twilight.  Survivors  there 
were  none.  One  may  picture  the  orderly  ex- 
pectation, the  officers  alert  and  watchful,  the 
gunners  ready,  the  ammunition  piled  to  hand, 
the  limber  gunners  with  their  horses  and 
wagons,  the  groups  of  civilian  spectators  stand- 
ing as  near  as  they  were  permitted,  the  even- 
ing stillness,  the  ambulances  and  hospital  tents, 
with  the  burned  and  wounded  from  Weybridge ; 
then  the  dull  resonance  of  the  shots  the  Mar- 
tians fired,  and  the  clumsy  projectile  whirling 
over  the  trees  and  houses  and  smashing  amid 
the  neighboring  fields. 

One  may  picture,  too,  the  sudden  shifting  of 
the  attention,  the  swiftly  spreading  coils  and 
bellyings  of  that  blackness  advancing  head- 
long, towering  heavenward,  turning  the  twi- 
light to  a  palpable  darkness,  a  strange  and 
horrible  antagonist  of  vapor  striding  upon  its 
victims,  men  and  horses  near  it  seen  dimly, 
running,  shrieking,  falling  headlong,  shouts  of 
dismay,  the  guns  suddenly  abandoned,  men 
choking  and  writhing  on  the  ground,  and  the 
swift  broadening  -  out  of  the  opaque  cone  of 
smoke.    And  then  night  and  extinction — noth- 

146 


IN    SURREY 

ing  but  a  silent  mass  of  impenetrable  vapor 
hiding  its  dead. 

Before  dawn  the  black  vapor  was  pouring 
through  the  streets  of  Richmond,  and  the  dis- 
integrating organism  of  government  was,  with 
a  last  expiring  effort,  rousine  the  population  of 
London  to  the  necessity  of  &ighL 


XVI 

THE  EXODUS  FROM  LONDON 

So  you  understand  the  roaring  wave  of  fear 
that  swept  through  the  greatest  city  in  the 
world  just  as  Monday  was  dawning — the  stream 
of  flight  rising  swiftly  to  a  torrent,  lashing  in 
a  foaming  tumult  round  the  railway  stations, 
banked  up  into  a  horrible  struggle  about  the 
shipping  in  the  Thames,  and  hurrying  by 
every  available  channel  northward  and  east- 
ward. By  ten  o^clock  the  police  organization, 
and  by  mid-day  even  the  railway  organizations, 
were  losing  coherency,  losing  shape  and  effi- 
ciency, guttering,  softening,  running  at  last  in 
that  swift  liquefaction  of  the  social  body. 

All  the  railway  lines  north  of  the  Thames 
and  the  South-Eastern  people  at  Cannon  Street 
had  been  warned  by  midnight  on  Sunday,  and 
trains  were  being  filled.  People  were  fighting 
savagely  for  standing-room  in  the  carriages 
even  at  two  o'clock.  By  three,  people  were 
being  trampled  and  crushed  even  in  Bishops- 
gate   Street,  a   couple  of   hundred  yards,  or 

148 


THE  EXODUS  FROM  LONDON 

more,  from  Liverpool  Street  station  ;  revolvers 
were  fired,  people  stabbed,  and  the  policemen 
who  had  been  sent  to  direct  the  traffic,  ex- 
hausted and  infuriated,  were  breaking  the 
heads  of  the  people  they  were  called  out  to 
protect. 

And  as  the  day  advanced,  and  the  engine- 
drivers  and  stokers  refused  to  return  to  Lon- 
don, the  pressure  of  the  flight  drove  the  people 
in  an  ever  -  thickening  multitude  away  from 
the  stations  and  along  the  northward-running 
roads.  By  mid-day  a  Martian  had  been  seen 
at  Barnes,  and  a  cloud  of  slowly  sinking  black 
vapor  drove  along  the  Thames  and  across  the 
flats  of  Lambeth,  cutting  off  all  escape  over 
the  bridges  in  its  sluggish  advance.  Another 
bank  drove  over  Ealing,  and  surrounded  a 
little  island  of  survivors  on  Castle  Hill,  alive, 
but  unable  to  escape. 

After  a  fruitless  struggle  to  get  aboard  a 
North-Western  train  at  Chalk  Farm — the  en- 
gines of  the  trains  that  had  loaded  in  the  goods 
yard  there  ploughed  through  shrieking  people, 
and  a  dozen  stalwart  men  fought  to  keep  the 
crowd  from  crushing  the  driver  against  his 
furnace — my  brother  emerged  upon  the  Chalk 
Farm  road,  dodged  across  through  a  hurrying 
swarm  of  vehicles,  and  had  the  luck  to  be  fore- 
most in  the  sack  of  a  cycle  shop.     The  front 

149 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

tire  of  the  machine  he  got  was  punctured  in 
dragging  it  through  the  window,  but  he  got 
up  and  oflf,  notwithstanding,  with  no  further 
injury  than  a  cut  wrist.  The  steep  foot  of 
.  Haverstock  Hill  was  impassable  owing  to  sev- 
eral overturned  horses,  and  my  brother  struck 
into  Belsize  Road. 

So  he  got  out  of  the  fury  of  the  panic,  and, 
skirting  the  Edgware  Road,  reached  Edgware 
about  seven,  fasting  and  wearied,  but  well 
ahead  of  the  crowd.  Along  the  road  people 
were  standing  in  the  roadway,  curious,  wonder- 
ing. He  was  passed  by  a  number  of  cyclists, 
some  horsemen,  and  two  motor-cars.  A  mile 
from  Edgware  the  rim  of  the  wheel  broke,  and 
the  machine  became  unridable.  He  left  it  by 
the  road-side  and  trudged  through  the  village. 
There  were  shops  half  opened  in  the  main 
street  of  the  place,  and  people  crowded  on  the 
pavement  and  in  the  doorways  and  windows, 
staring  astonished  at  this  extraordinary  pro- 
cession of  fugitives  that  was  beginning.  He 
succeeded  in  getting  some  food  at  an  inn. 

For  a  time  he  remained  in  Edgware,  stood 
staring  on  the  front  path,  not  knowing  what 
next  to  do.  The  flying  people  increased  in 
number.  Many  of  them,  like  my  brother, 
seemed  inclined  to  stop  in  the  place.  There 
was  no  fresh  news  of  the  invaders  from  Mars. 

ISO 


THE  EXODUS  FROM  LONDON 

At  that  time  the  road  was  crowded,  but  as 
yet  far  from  congested.  Most  of  the  fugi- 
tives at  that  hour  were  mounted  on  cycles,  but 
there  were  soon  motor-cars,  hansom  cabs,  and 
carriages  hurrying  along,  and  the  dust  hung 
in  heavy  clouds  along  the  road  to  St.  Albans. 

It  was  perhaps  a  vague  idea  of  making  his 
way  to  Chelmsford,  where  some  friends  of  his 
lived,  that  at  last  induced  my  brother  to  strike 
into  a  quiet  lane  running  eastward.  Presently 
he  came  upon  a  stile,  and,  crossing  it,  followed 
a  foot-path  northeastward.  He  passed  near 
several  farm  -  houses  and  some  little  places 
whose  names  he  did  not  learn.  He  saw  few 
fugitives  until,  in  a  grass  lane  towards  High 
Barnet,  he  happened  upon  the  two  ladies  who 
became  his  fellow-travellers.  He  came  upon 
them  just  in  time  to  save  them. 

He  heard  their  screams,  and,  hurrying  round 
the  corner,  saw  a  couple  of  men  struggling  to 
drag  them  out  of  the  little  pony-chaise  in  which 
they  had  been  driving,  while  a  third  with  diffi- 
culty held  the  frightened  pony's  head.  One  of 
the  ladies,  a  short  woman  dressed  in  white,  was 
simply  screaming ;  the  other,  a  dark,  slender 
figure,  slashed  at  the  man  who  gripped  her 
arm  with  a  whip  she  held  in  her  disengaged 
hand. 

My  brother  immediately  grasped  the  situa- 

151 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

tion,  shouted,  and  hurried  towards  the  struggle. 
One  of  the  men  desisted  and  turned  towards 
him,  and  my  brother,  realizing  from  his  antag- 
onist's face  that  a  fight  was  unavoidable,  and 
being  an  expert  boxer,  went  into  him  forth- 
with and  sent  him  down  against  the  wheel  of 
the  chaise. 

It  was  no  time  for  pugilistic  chivalry,  and 
my  brother  laid  him  quiet  with  a  kick,  and 
gripped  the  collar  of  the  man  who  pulled  at 
the  slender  lady's  arm.  He  heard  the  clatter 
of  hoofs,  the  whip  stung  across  his  face,  a  third 
antagonist  struck  him  between  the  eyes,  and 
the  man  he  held  wrenched  himself  free  and 
made  off  down  the  lane  in  the  direction  from 
which  he  had  come. 

Partly  stunned,  he  found  himself  facing  the 
man  who  had  held  the  horse's  head,  and  be- 
came aware  of  the  chaise  receding  from  him 
down  the  lane,  swaying  from  side  to  side,  and 
with  the  women  in  it  looking  back.  The  man 
before  him,  a  burly  rough,  tried  to  close,  and 
he  stopped  him  with  a  blow  in  the  face.  Then, 
realizing  that  he  was  deserted,  he  dodged  round 
and  made  off  down  the  lane  after  the  chaise, 
with  the  sturdy  man  close  behind  him,  and  the 
fugitive,  who  had  turned  now,  following  re- 
motely. 

Suddenly  he  stumbled  and  fell ;  his  imme- 

152 


THE  EXODUS  FROM  LONDON 

diate  pursuer  went  headlong,  and  he  rose  to  his 
feet  to  find  himself  with  a  couple  of  antago- 
nists again.  He  would  have  had  little  chance 
against  them  had  not  the  slender  lady  very 
pluckily  pulled  up  and  returned  to  his  help. 
It  seems  she  had  had  a  revolver  all  this  time, 
but  it  had  been  under  the  seat  when  she  and 
her  companion  were  attacked.  She  fired  at 
six  yards'  distance,  narrowly  missing  my  broth- 
er. The  less  courageous  of  the  robbers  made 
off,  and  his  companion  followed  him,  cursing  his 
cowardice.  They  both  stopped  in  sight  down 
the  lane  where  the  third  man  lay  insensible. 

"  Take  this  !"  said  the  slender  lady,  and  she 
gave  my  brother  her  revolver. 

"  Go  back  to  the  chaise,"  said  my  brother, 
wiping  the  blood  from  his  split  lip. 

She  turned  without  a  word — they  were  both 
panting — and  they  went  back  to  where  the 
lady  in  white  struggled  to  hold  back  the  fright- 
ened pony. 

The  robbers  had  evidently  had  enough  of  it. 
When  my  brother  looked  again  they  were  re- 
treating. 

"  I'll  sit  here,"  said  my  brother,  "  if  I  may ;" 
and  he  got  upon  the  empty  front  seat.  The 
lady  looked  over  her  shoulder. 

"Give  me  the  reins,"  she  said,  and  laid  the 
whip  along  the  pony's  side.     In  another  mo- 

153 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

ment  a  bend  in  the  road  hid  the  three  men 
from  my  brother's  eyes. 

So,  quite  unexpectedly,  my  brother  found 
himself,  panting,  with  a  cut  mouth,  a  bruised 
jaw,  and  blood-stained  knuckles,  driving  along 
an  unknown  lane  with  these  two  women. 

He  learned  they  were  the  wife  and  the  young- 
er sister  of  a  surgeon  living  at  Stanmore,  who 
had  come  in  the  small  hours  from  a  dangerous 
case  at  Pinner,  and  heard  at  some  railway 
station  on  his  way  of  the  Martian  advance. 
He  had  hurried  home,  roused  the  women — 
their  servant  had  left  them  two  days  before — 
packed  some  provisions,  put  his  revolver  under 
the  seat — luckily  for  my  brother — and  told 
them  to  drive  on  to  Edgware,  with  the  idea  of 
getting  a  train  there.  He  stopped  behind  to 
tell  the  neighbors.  He  would  overtake  them, 
he  said,  at  about  half-past  four  in  the  morning, 
and  now  it  was  nearly  nine  and  they  had  seen 
nothing  of  him  since.  They  could  not  stop  in 
Edgware  because  of  the  growing  traffic  through 
the  place,  and  so  they  had  come  into  this  side 
lane. 

That  was  the  story  they  told  my  brother  in 
fragments  when  presently  they  stopped  again, 
nearer  to  New  Barnet.  He  promised  to  stay 
with  them,  at  least  until  they  could  determine 
what  to  do,  or  until  the  missing  man  arrived, 

154 


THE  EXODUS  FROM  LONDON 

and  professed  to  be  an  expert  shot  with  the 
revolver — a  weapon  strange  to  him — in  order 
to  give  them  confidence. 

They  made  a  sort  of  encampment  by  the 
wayside,  and  the  pony  became  happy  in  the 
hedge.  He  told  them  of  his  own  escape  out  of 
London,  and  all  that  he  knew  of  these  Mar- 
tians and  their  ways.  The  sun  crept  higher 
in  the  sky,  and  after  a  time  their  talk  died  out 
and  gave  place  to  an  uneasy  state  of  anticipa- 
tion. Several  wayfarers  came  along  the  lane, 
and  of  these  my  brother  gathered  such  news 
as  he  could.  Every  broken  answer  he  had 
deepened  his  impression  of  the  great  disaster 
that  had  come  on  humanity,  deepened  his  per- 
suasion of  the  immediate  necessity  for  prose- 
cuting this  flight.  He  urged  the  matter  upon 
them. 

"  We  have  money,"  said  the  slender  woman, 
and  hesitated. 

Her  eyes  met  my  brother's,  and  her  hesita- 
tion ended. 

"  So  have  I,"  said  my  brother. 

She  explained  that  they  had  as  much  as 
thirty  pounds  in  gold,  besides  a  five  -  pound 
note,  and  suggested  that  with  that  they  might 
get  upon  a  train  at  St.  Albans  or  New  Barnet. 
My  brother  thought  that  was  hopeless,  seeing 
the  fury  of  the  Londoners  to  crowd  upon  the 

I5S 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

trains,  and  broached  his  own  idea  of  striking 
across  Essex  towards  Harwich  and  thence  es- 
caping from  the  country  altogether. 

Mrs.  Elphinstone — that  was  the  name  of  the 
woman  in  white — would  listen  to  no  reasoning, 
and  kept  calling  upon  "George";  but  her  sis- 
ter-in-law was  astonishingly  quiet  and  delib- 
erate, and  at  last  agreed  to  my  brother's  sug- 
gestion. So  they  went  on  towards  Barnet, 
designing  to  cross  the  Great  North  Road,  my 
brother  leading  the  pony,  to  save  it  as  much 
as  possible. 

As  the  sun  crept  up  the  sky  the  day  became 
excessively  hot,  and  under  foot  a  thick,  whitish 
sand  grew  burning  and  blinding,  so  that  they 
travelled  only  very  slowly.  The  hedges  were 
gray  with  dust.  And  as  they  advanced  tow- 
ards Barnet  a  tumultuous  murmuring  grew 
stronger. 

They  began  to  meet  more  people.  For  the 
most  part  these  were  staring  before  them, 
murmuring  indistinct  questions,  jaded,  hag- 
gard, unclean.  One  man  in  evening  dress 
passed  them  on  foot,  his  eyes  on  the  ground. 
They  heard  his  voice,  and,  looking  back  at  him, 
saw  one  hand  clutched  in  his  hair  and  the 
other  beating  invisible  things.  His  paroxysm 
of  rage  over,  he  went  on  his  way  without  once 
looking  back. 


THE  EXODUS  FROM  LONDON 

As  my  brother's  party  went  on  towards  the 
cross-roads  to  the  south  of  Barnet  they  saw  a 
woman  approaching  the  road  across  some  fields 
on  their  left,  carrying  a  child  and  with  two 
other  children  ;  and  then  a  man  in  dirty  black, 
with  a  thick  stick  in  one  hand  and  a  small 
portmanteau  in  the  other,  passed.  Then  round 
the  corner  of  the  lane,  from  between  the  villas 
that  guarded  it  at  its  confluence  with  the  high- 
road, came  a  little  cart  drawn  by  a  sweating 
black  pony  and  driven  by  a  sallow  youth  in  a 
bowler  hat,  gray  with  dust.  There  were  three 
girls,  like  East  End  factory  girls,  and  a  couple 
of  little  children  crowded  in  the  cart. 

"  This  *11  tike  us  rahnd  Edgware  ?"  asked  the 
driver,  wild-eyed,  white-faced ;  and  when  my 
brother  told  him  it  would  if  he  turned  to  the 
left,  he  whipped  up  at  once  without  the  for- 
mality of  thanks. 

My  brother  noticed  a  pale  gray  smoke  or 
haze  rising  among  the  houses  in  front  of  them, 
and  veiling  the  white  fagade  of  a  terrace  be- 
yond the  road  that  appeared  between  the  backs 
of  the  villas.  Mrs.  Elphinstone  suddenly  cried 
out  at  a  number  of  tongues  of  smoky  red  flame 
leaping  up  above  the  houses  in  front  of  them 
against  the  hot,  blue  sky.  The  tumultuous 
noise  resolved  itself  now  into  the  disorderly 
mingling  of  many  voices,  the  gride  of  many 

157 


THE    WAR    OF   THE    WORLDS 

wheels,  the  creaking  of  wagons,  and  the  stac- 
cato of  hoofs.  The  lane  came  round  sharply, 
not  fifty  yards  from  the  cross-roads. 

**Good  heavens!"  cried  Mrs.  Elphinstone. 
"  What  is  this  you  are  driving  us  into  ?" 

My  brother  stopped. 

For  the  main  road  was  a  boiling  stream  of 
people,  a  torrent  of  human  beings  rushing 
northward,  one  pressing  on  another.  A  great 
bank  of  dust,  white  and  luminous  in  the  blaze 
of  the  sun,  made  everything  within  twenty 
feet  of  the  ground  gray  and  indistinct,  and 
was  perpetually  renewed  by  the  hurrying  feet 
of  a  dense  crowd  of  horses  and  of  men  and 
women  on  foot,  and  by  the  wheels  of  vehicles 
of  every  description. 

"Way!"  my  brother  heard  voices  crying. 
"  Make  way  !" 

It  was  like  riding  into  the  smoke  of  a  fire 
to  approach  the  meeting-point  of  the  lane  and 
road  ;  the  crowd  roared  like  a  fire,  and  the 
dust  was  hot  and  pungent.  And,  indeed,  a 
little  way  up  the  road  a  villa  was  burning  and 
sending  rolling  masses  of  black  smoke  across 
the  road  to  add  to  the  confusion. 

Two  men  came  past  them.  Then  a  dirty 
woman,  carrying  a  heavy  bundle  and  weep- 
ing. A  lost  retriever  dog,  with  hanging 
tongue,  circled  dubiously  round  them,  scared 

158 


THE  EXODUS  FROM  LONDON 

and  wretched,  and  fled  at  my  brother's 
threat. 

So  much  as  they  could  see  of  the  road  Lon- 
donward  between  the  houses  to  the  right  was 
a  tumultuous  stream  of  dirty,  hurrying  people, 
pent  in  between  the  villas  on  either  side ;  the 
black  heads,  the  crowded  forms,  grew  into  dis- 
tinctness as  they  rushed  towards  the  corner, 
hurried  past,  and  merged  their  individuality 
again  in  a  receding  multitude  that  was  swal- 
lowed up  at  last  in  a  cloud  of  dust. 

"  Gk)  on  !  Go  on  !"  cried  the  voices.  ''  Way  ! 
Way  I" 

One  man's  hands  pressed  on  the  back  of 
another.  My  brother  stood  at  the  pony's  head. 
Irresistibly  attracted,  he  advanced  slowly,  pace 
by  pace,  down  the  lane. 

Edgware  had  been  a  scene  of  confusion, 
Chalk  Farm  a  riotous  tumult,  but  this  was  a 
whole  population  in  movement.  It  is  hard  to 
imagine  that  host.  It  had  no  character  of  its 
own.  The  figures  poured  out  past  the  corner, 
and  receded  with  their  backs  to  the  group  in 
the  lane.  Along  the  margin  came  those  who 
were  on  foot,  threatened  by  the  wheels,  stum- 
bling in  the  ditches,  blundering  into  one  an- 
other. 

The  carts  and  carriages  crowded  close  upon 
one  another,  making  little  way  for  those  swifter 

159 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

and  more  impatient  vehicles  that  darted  for- 
ward every  now  and  then  when  an  opportunity 
showed  itself  of  doing  so,  sending  the  people 
scattering  against  the  fences  and  gates  of  the 
villas. 

"  Push  on  !"  was  the  cry.  ''  Push  on  !  They 
are  coming  !'* 

In  one  cart  stood  a  blind  man  in  the  uniform 
of  the  Salvation  Army,  gesticulating  with  his 
crooked  fingers  and  bawling,  "  Eternity  !  eter- 
nity !"  His  voice  was  hoarse  and  very  loud,  so 
that  my  brother  could  hear  him  long  after  he 
was  lost  to  sight  in  the  southward  dust.  Some 
of  the  people  who  crowded  in  the  carts  whipped 
stupidly  at  their  horses  and  quarrelled  with 
other  drivers  ;  some  sat  motionless,  staring  at 
nothing  with  miserable  eyes ;  some  gnawed 
their  hands  with  thirst,  or  lay  prostrate  in  the 
bottoms  of  their  conveyances.  The  horses* 
bits  were  covered  with  foam,  their  eyes  blood- 
shot. 

There  were  cabs,  carriages,  shop-carts,  wag- 
ons, beyond  counting ;  a  mail  -  cart,  a  road- 
cleaner's  cart  marked  "  Vestry  of  St.  Pancras,'* 
a  huge  timber -wagon  crowded  with  roughs. 
A  brewer's  dray  rumbled  by  with  its  two  near 
wheels  splashed  with  fresh  blood. 

"  Clear  the  way  !"  cried  the  voices.  "  Clear 
the  way  !" 

i6o 


THE  EXODUS  FROM  LONDON 

"Eter-nity!  eter-nity!'*  came  echoing  up 
the  road. 

There  were  sad,  haggard  women  tramping 
by,  well  dressed,  with  children  that  cried  and 
stumbled,  their  dainty  clothes  smothered  in 
dust,  their  weary  faces  smeared  with  tears. 
With  many  of  these  came  men,  sometimes  help- 
ful, sometimes  lowering  and  savage.  Fighting 
side  by  side  with  them  pushed  some  weary 
street  outcast  in  faded  black  rags,  wide-eyed, 
loud-voiced,  and  foul-mouthed.  There  were 
sturdy  workmen  thrusting  their  way  along, 
wretched,  unkempt  men^  clothed  like  clerks  or 
shop-men,  struggling  spasmodically;  a  wounded 
soldier  my  brother  noticed,  men  dressed  in  the 
clothes  of  railway  porters,  one  wretched  creat- 
ure in  a  night-shirt  with  a  coat  thrown  over  it. 

But  varied  as  its  composition  was,  certain 
things  all  that  host  had  in  common.  There 
were  fear  and  pain  on  their  faces,  and  fear 
behind  them.  A  tumult  up  the  road,  a  quarrel 
for  a  place  in  a  wagon,  sent  the  whole  host  of 
them  quickening  their  pace  ;  even  a  man  so 
scared  and  broken  that  his  knees  bent  under 
him  was  galvanized  for  a  moment  into  renewed 
activity.  The  heat  and  dust  had  already  been 
at  work  upon  this  multitude.  Their  skins  were 
dry,  their  lips  black  and  cracked.  They  were 
all  thirsty,  weary,  and  footsore.  And  amid  the 
L  i6i 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

various  cries  one  heard  disputes,  reproaches, 
groans  of  weariness  and  fatigue  ;  the  voices  of 
most  of  them  were  hoarse  and  weak.  Through 
it  all  ran  a  refrain  : 

"Way  !  way  !     The  Martians  are  coming  !" 

Few  stopped  and  came  aside  from  that  flood. 
The  lane  opened  slantingly  into  the  main  road 
with  a  narrow  opening,  and  had  a  delusive 
appearance  of  coming  from  the  direction  of 
London.  Yet  a  kind  of  eddy  of  people  drove 
into  its  mouth  ;  weaklings  elbowed  out  of  the 
stream,  who  for  the  most  part  rested  but  a 
moment  before  plunging  into  it  again.  A  little 
way  down  the  lane,  with  two  friends  bending 
over  him,  lay  a  man  with  a  bare  leg,  wrapped 
about  with  bloody  rags.  He  was  a  lucky  man 
to  have  friends. 

A  little  old  man,  with  a  gray  military  mus^ 
tache  and  a  filthy  black  frock-coat,  limped  out 
and  sat  down  beside  the  trap,  removed  his  boot 
— his  sock  was  blood-stained  —  shook  out  a 
pebble,  and  hobbled  on  again  ;  and  then  a 
little  girl  of  eight  or  nine,  all  alone,  threw 
herself  under  the  hedge  close  by  my  brother, 
weeping. 

"  I  can't  go  on  !     I  can't  go  on  !" 

My  brother  woke  from  his  torpor  of  astonish- 
ment and  lifted  her  up,  speaking  gently  to  her, 
and  carried  her  to  Miss  Elphinstone.     So  soon 

162 


THE  EXODUS  FROM  LONDON 

as  my  brother  touched  her  she  became  quite 
still,  as  if  frightened. 

"  Ellen  !"  shrieked  a  woman  in  the  crowd, 
with  tears  in  her  voice — '^  Ellen  !"  And  the 
child  suddenly  darted  away  from  my  brother, 
crying,  "  Mother  !" 

^'They  are  coming,"  said  a  man  on  horse- 
back, riding  past  along  the  lane. 

''  Out  of  the  way,  there  !"  bawled  a  coachman, 
towering  high  ;  and  my  brother  saw  a  closed 
carriage  turning  into  the  lane. 

The  people  crushed  back  on  one  another  to 
avoid  the  horse.  My  brother  pushed  the  pony 
and  chaise  back  into  the  hedge,  and  the  man 
drove  by  and  stopped  at  the  turn  of  the  way. 
It  was  a  carriage,  with  a  pole  for  a  pair  of 
horses,  but  only  one  was  in  the  traces.  My 
brother  saw  dimly  through  the  dust  that  two 
men  lifted  out  something  on  a  white  stretcher 
and  put  it  gently  on  the  grass  beneath  the 
privet  hedge. 

One  of  the  men  came  running  to  my  brother. 

"Where  is  there  any  water?"  he  said.  "He 
is  dying  fast,  and  very  thirsty.  It  is  Lord 
Garrick." 

"  Lord  Garrick  !"  said  my  brother — "  the 
Chief  Justice?" 

"  The  water  ?"  he  said. 

"  There  may  be  a  tap,"  said  my  brother,  "in 

163 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

some  of  the  houses.     We   have  no  water.     I 
dare  not  leave  my  people." 

The  man  pushed  against  the  crowd  towards 
the  gate  of  the  corner  house. 

"  Go  on  !"  said  the  people,  thrusting  at  him. 
"  They  are  coming  !     Go  on  !" 

Then  my  brother's  attention  was  distracted 
by  a  bearded,  eagle-faced  man  lugging  a  small 
hand-bag,  which  split  even  as  my  brother's 
eyes  rested  on  it,  and  disgorged  a  mass  of  sov- 
ereigns that  seemed  to  break  up  into  separate 
coins  as  it  struck  the  ground.  They  rolled 
hither  and  thither  among  the  struggling  feet 
of  men  and  horses.  The  man  stopped  and 
looked  stupidly  at  the  heap,  and  the  shaft  of  a 
cab  struck  .his  shoulder  and  sent  him  reeling. 
He  gave  a  shriek  and  dodged  back,  and  a  cart- 
wheel shaved  him  narrowly. 

"  Way  !"  cried  the  men  all  about  him. 
"  Make  way  !" 

So  soon  as  the  cab  had  passed,  he  flung  him- 
self, with  both  hands  open,  upon  the  heap  of 
coins,  and  began  thrusting  handfuls  in  his 
pocket.  A  horse  rose  close  upon  him,  and 
in  another  moment,  half  rising,  he  had  been 
borne  down  under  the  horse's  hoofs. 

"  Stop  !"  screamed  my  brother,  and,  pushing 
a  woman  out  of  his  way,  tried  to  clutch  the  bit 
of  the  horse. 

164 


THE  EXODUS  FROM  LONDON 

Before  he  could  get  to  it,  he  heard  a  scream 
under  the  wheels,  and  saw  through  the  dust 
the  rim  passing  over  the  poor  wretch's  back. 
The  driver  of  the  cart  slashed  his  whip  at  my 
brother,  who  ran  round  behind  the  cart.  The 
multitudinous  shouting  confused  his  ears. 
The  man  was  writhing  in  the  dust  among  his 
scattered  money,  unable  to  rise,  for  the  wheel 
had  broken  his  back,  and  his  lower  limbs  lay 
limp  and  dead.  My  brother  stood  up  and 
yelled  at  the  next  driver,  and  a  man  on  a  black 
horse  came  to  his  assistance. 

"  Get  him  out  of  the  road,"  said  he  ;  and, 
clutching  the  man's  collar  with  his  free  hand, 
my  brother  lugged  him  sideways.  But  he  still 
clutched  after  his  money,  and  regarded  my 
brother  fiercely,  hammering  at  his  arm  with  a 
handful  of  gold.  ''  Go  on  !  Go  on  I"  shouted 
angry  voices  behind.     "  Way  !     Way  !" 

There  was  a  smash  as  the  pole  of  a  carriage 
crashed  into  the  cart  that  the  man  on  horse- 
back stopped.  My  brother  looked  up,  and  the 
man  with  the  gold  twisted  his  head  round  and 
bit  the  wrist  that  held  his  collar.  There  was  a 
concussion,  and  the  black  horse  came  stagger- 
ing sideways,  and  the  cart-horse  pushed  beside 
it.  A  hoof  missed  my  brother's  foot  by  a  hair's 
breadth.  He  released  his  grip  on  the  fallen 
man  and  jumped  back.     He  saw  anger  change 

i6s 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

to  terror  on  the  face  of  the  poor  wretch  on  the 
ground,  and  in  a  moment  he  was  hidden  and 
my  brother  was  borne  backward  and  carried 
past  the  entrance  of  the  lane,  and  had  to  fight 
hard  in  the  torrent  to  recover  it. 

He  saw  Miss  Elphinstone  covering  her  eyes, 
and  a  little  child,  with  all  a  child's  want  of 
sympathetic  imagination,  staring  with  dilated 
eyes  at  a  dusty  something  that  lay  black  and 
still,  ground  and  crushed  under  the  rolling 
wheels.  "  Let  us  go  back  !'*  he  shouted,  and 
began  turning  the  pony  round.  "  We  cannot 
cross  this — hell,"  he  said  ;  and  they  went  back 
a  hundred  yards  the  way  they  had  come,  un- 
til the  fighting  crowd  was  hidden.  As  they 
passed  the. bend  in  the  lane  my  brother  saw  the 
face  of  the  dying  man  in  the  ditch  under  the 
privet,  deadly  white  and  drawn,  and  shining 
with  perspiration.  The  two  women  sat  silent, 
crouching  in  their  seats  and  shivering. 

Then  beyond  the  bend  my  brother  stopped 
again.  Miss  Elphinstone  was  white  and  pale, 
and  her  sister-in-law  sat  weeping,  too  wretched 
even  to  call  upon  "  George."  My  brother  was 
horrified  and  perplexed.  So  soon  as  they  had 
retreated  he  realized  how  urgent  and  una- 
voidable it  was  to  attempt  this  crossing.  He 
turned  to  Miss  Elphinstone,  suddenly  reso- 
lute. 

i66 


THE  EXODUS  FROM  LONDON 

"  We  must  go  that  way/*  he  said,  and  led  the 
pony  round  again. 

For  the  second  time  that  day  this  girl  proved 
her  quality.  To  force  their  way  into  the  tor- 
rent of  people,  my  brother  plunged  into  the 
traffic  and  held  back  a  cab-horse,  while  she 
drove  the  pony  across  its  head.  A  wagon 
locked  wheels  for  a  moment  and  ripped  a  long 
splinter  from  the  chaise.  In  another  moment 
they  were  caught  and  swept  forward  by  the 
stream.  My  brother,  with  the  cabman's  whip- 
marks  red  across  his  face  and  hands,  scram- 
bled into  the  chaise  and  took  the  reins  from 
her. 

"  Point  the  revolver  at  the  man  behind,"  he 
said,  giving  it  to  her,  "if  he  presses  us  too 
hard.     No  ! — point  it  at  his  horse." 

Then  he  began  to  look  out  for  a  chance  of 
edging  to  the  right  across  the  road.  But  once 
in  the  stream  he  seemed  to  lose  volition,  to 
become  a  part  of  that  dusty  rout.  They  swept 
through  Chipping  Barnet  with  the  torrent ; 
they  were  nearly  a  mile  beyond  the  centre  of 
the  town  before  they  had  fought  across  to  the 
opposite  side  of  the  way.  It  was  din  and  con- 
fusion indescribable  ;  but  in  and  beyond  the 
town  the  road  forks  repeatedly,  and  this  to 
some  extent  relieved  the  stress. 

They  struck  eastward  through  Hadley,  and 

167 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

there  on  either  side  of  the  road,  and  at  another 
place  farther  on  they  came  upon  a  great  mul- 
titude of  people  drinking  at  the  stream,  some 
fighting  to  come  at  the  water.  And  farther 
on,  from  a  hill  near  East  Barnet,  they  saw  two 
trains  running  slowly  one  after  the  other  with- 
out signal  or  order  —  trains  swarming  with 
people,  with  men  even  among  the  coals  behind 
the  engines — going  northward  along  the  Great 
Northern  Railway.  My  brother  supposes  they 
must  have  filled  outside  London,  for  at  that 
time  the  furious  terror  of  the  people  had  ren- 
dered the  central  termini  impossible. 

Near  this  place  they  halted  for  the  rest  of 
the  afternoon,  for  the  violence  of  the  day  had 
already  utterly  exhausted  all  three  of  them. 
They  began  to  suffer  the  beginnings  of  hun- 
ger ;  the  night  was  cold,  and  none  of  them 
dared  to  sleep.  And  in  the  evening  many 
people  came  hurrying  along  the  road  near  by 
their  stopping  -  place,  fleeing  from  unknown 
dangers  before  them,  and  going  in  the  direc- 
tion from  which  my  brother  had  come. 


XVII 

THE    "THUNDER   CHILD '' 

Had  the  Martians  aimed  only  at  destruction, 
they  might  on  Monday  have  annihilated  the 
entire  population  of  London,  as  it  spread  it- 
self slowly  through  the  home  counties.  Not 
only  along  the  road  through  Barnet,  but  also 
through  Edgware  and  Waltham  Abbey,  and 
along  the  roads  eastward  to  Southend  and 
Shoeburyness,  and  South  of  the  Thames  to 
Deal  and  Broadstairs,  poured  the  same  frantic 
rout.  If  one  could  have  hung  that  June  morn- 
ing in  a  balloon  in  the  blazing  blue  above  Lon- 
don, every  northward  and  eastward  road  run- 
ning out  of  the  infinite  tangle  of  streets  would 
have  seemed  stippled  black  with  the  streaming 
fugitives,  each  dot  a  human  agony  of  terror 
and  physical  distress.  I  have  set  forth  at 
length  in  the  last  chapter  my  brother's  account 
of  the  road  through  Chipping  Barnet,  in  order 
that  my  readers  may  realize  how  that  swarm- 
ing of  black  dots  appeared  to  one  of  those 
concerned.     Never  before  in  the  history  of  the 

169 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

world  had  such  a  mass  of  human  beings  moved 
and  suffered  together.  The  legendary  hosts 
of  Goths  and  Huns,  the  hugest  armies  Asia 
has  ever  seen,  would  have  been  but  a  drop  in 
that  current.  And  this  was  no  disciplined 
march ;  it  was  a  stampede — a  stampede  gigan- 
tic and  terrible — without  order  and  without  a 
goal,  six  million  people,  unarmed  and  unpro- 
visioned,  driving  headlong.  It  was  the  begin- 
ning of  the  rout  of  civilization,  of  the  massa- 
cre of  mankind. 

Directly  below  him  the  balloonist  would 
have  seen  the  network  of  streets  far  and  wide, 
houses,  churches,  squares,  crescents,  gardens — 
already  derelict — spread  out  like  a  huge  map, 
and  in  the  southward  blotted.  Over  Ealing, 
Richmond,  Wimbledon,  it  would  have  seemed 
as  if  some  monstrous  pen  had  flung  ink  upon- 
the  chart.  Steadily,  incessantly,  each  black 
splash  grew  and  spread,  shooting  out  ramifi- 
cations this  way  and  that,  now  banking  itself 
against  rising  ground,  now  pouring  swiftly 
over  a  crest  into  a  new  -  found  valley,  exactly 
as  a  gout  of  ink  would  spread  itself  upon  blot- 
ting-paper. 

And  beyond,  over  the  blue  hills  that  rise 
southward  of  the  river,  the  glittering  Martians 
went  to  and  fro,  calmly  and  methodically 
spreading  their  poison  -  cloud  over  this  patch 

170 


THE    '^THUNDER    CHILD'' 

of  country,  and  then  over  that,  laying  it  again 
with  their  steam  -  jets  when  it  had  served  its 
purpose,  and  taking  possession  of  the  con- 
quered country.  They  do  not  seem  to  have 
aimed  at  extermination  so  much  as  at  com- 
plete demoralization  and  the  destruction  of 
any  opposition.  They  exploded  any  stores  of 
powder  they  came  upon,  cut  every  telegraph, 
and  wrecked  the  railways  here  and  there. 
They  were  hamstringing  mankind.  They 
seemed  in  no  hurry  to  extend  the  field  of 
their  operations,  and  did  not  come  beyond 
the  central  part  of  London  all  that  day.  It 
is  possible  that  a  very  considerable  number 
of  people  in  London  stuck  to  their  houses 
through  Monday  morning.  Certain  it  is  that 
many  died  at  home,  suffocated  by  the  Black 
Smoke. 

Until  about  mid  -  day  the  Pool  of  London 
was  an  astonishing  scene.  Steamboats  and 
shipping  of  all  sorts  lay  there,  tempted  by  the 
enormous  sums  of  money  offered  by  fugitives, 
and  it  is  said  that  many  who  swam  out  to 
these  vessels  were  thrust  off  with  boat-hooks 
and  drowned.  About  one  o'clock  in  the  after- 
noon the  thinning  remnant  of  a  cloud  of  the 
black  vapor  appeared  between  the  arches  of 
Blackfriars  Bridge.  At  that  the  Pool  became 
a  scene  of  mad  confusion,  fighting,  and  coUi- 

171 


THE    WAR    OF   THE    WORLDS 

sion,  and  for  some  time  a  multitude  of  boats 
and  barges  jammed  in  the  northern  arch  of 
the  Tower  Bridge,  and  the  sailors  and  lighter- 
men had  to  fight  savagely  against  the  people 
who  swarmed  upon  them  from  the  river  front. 
People  were  actually  clambering  down  the 
piers  of  the  bridge  from  above. 

When,  an  hour  later,  a  Martian  appeared 
beyond  the  Clock  Tower  and  waded  down  the 
river,  nothing  but  wreckage  floated  above 
Limehouse. 

Of  the  falling  of  the  fifth  cylinder  I  have 
presently  to  tell.  The  sixth  star  fell  at  Wim- 
bledon. My  brother,  keeping  watch  beside  the 
women  sleeping  in  the  chaise  in  a  meadow, 
saw  the  green  flash  of  it  far  beyond  the  hills. 
On  Tuesday  the  little  party,  still  set  upon  get- 
ting across  the  sea,  made  its  way  through  the 
swarming  country  towards  Colchester.  The 
news  that  the  Martians  were  now  in  possession 
of  the  whole  of  London  was  confirmed.  They 
had  been  seen  at  Highgate,  and  even,  it  was 
said,  at  Neasdon.  But  they  did  not  come  into 
my  brother's  view  until  the  morrow. 

That  day  the  scattered  multitudes  began  to 
realize  the  urgent  need  of  provisions.  As  they 
grew  hungry  the  rights  of  property  ceased  to 
be  regarded.  Farmers  were  out  to  defend 
their  cattlesheds,  granaries,  and  ripening  root 

172 


THE    '^THUNDER    CHILD" 

crops  with  arms  in  their  hands.  A  number  of 
people  now,  like  my  brother,  had  their  faces 
eastward,  and  there  were  some  desperate  souls 
even  going  back  towards  London  to  get  food. 
These  were  chiefly  people  from  the  northern 
suburbs,  whose  knowledge  of  the  Black  Smoke 
came  by  hearsay.  He  heard  that  about  half 
the  members  of  the  government  had  gath- 
ered at  Birmingham,  and  that  enormous  quan- 
tities of  high  explosives  were  being  prepared 
to  be  used  in  automatic  mines  across  the  Mid- 
land counties. 

He  was  also  told  that  the  Midland  Railway 
Company  had  replaced  the  desertions  of  the 
first  day's  panic,  had  resumed  traffic,  and  was 
running  northward  trains  from  St.  Albans  to 
relieve  the  congestion  of  the  home  counties. 
There  was  also  a  placard  in  Chipping  Ongar 
announcing  that  large  stores  of  flour  were 
available  in  the  northern  towns,  and  that  with- 
in twenty-four  hours  bread  would  be  distrib- 
uted among  the  starving  people  in  the  neigh- 
borhood. But  this  intelligence  did  not  deter 
him  from  the  plan  of  escape  he  had  formed, 
and  the  three  pressed  eastward  all  day,  and 
saw  no  more  of  the  bread  distribution  than 
this  promise.  Nor,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  did 
any  one  else  see  more  of  it.  That  night  fell 
the  seventh  star,  falling  upon  Primrose  Hill. 

173 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

It  fell  while  Miss  Elphinstone  was  watching, 
for  she  took  that  duty  alternately  with  my 
brother.     She  saw  it. 

On  Wednesday  the  three  fugitives — they  had 
passed  the  night  in  a  field  of  unripe  wheat — 
reached  Chelmsford,  and  there  a  body  of  the 
inhabitants,  calling  itself  the  Committee  of 
Public  Supply,  seized  the  pony  as  provisions, 
and  would  give  nothing  in  exchange  for  it  but 
the  promise  of  a  share  in  it  the  next  day.  Here 
there  were  rumors  of  Martians  at  Epping, 
and  news  of  the  destruction  of  Waltham  Abbey 
Powder  Mills  in  a  vain  attempt  to  blow  up  one 
of  the  invaders. 

People  were  watching  for  Martians  here 
from  the  church  towers.  My  brother,  very 
luckily  for  him  as  it  chanced,  preferred  to  push 
on  at  once  to  the  coast  rather  than  wait  for 
food,  although  all  three  of  them  were  very 
hungry.  By  mid -day  they  passed  through 
Tillingham,  which,  strangely  enough,  seemed 
to  be  quite  silent  and  deserted,  save  for  a  few 
furtive  plunderers  hunting  for  food.  Near 
Tillingham  they  suddenly  came  in  sight  of  the 
sea,  and  the  most  amazing  crowd  of  shipping 
of  all  sorts  that  it  is  possible  to  imagine. 

For  after  the  sailors  could  no  longer  come 
up  the  Thames,  they  came  on  to  the  Essex 
coast,  to  Harwich   and  Walton  and  Clacton, 

174 


THE    ''THUNDER    CHILD^' 

and  afterwards  to  Foulness  and  Shoebury,  to 
bring  off  the  people.  They  lay  in  a  huge 
sickle-shaped  curve  that  vanished  into  mist  at 
last  towards  the  Naze.  Close  inshore  was  a 
multitude  of  fishing-smacks — English,  Scotch, 
French,  Dutch,  and  Swedish  ;  steam-launches 
from  the  Thames,  yachts,  electric  boats ;  and 
beyond  were  ships  of  large  burden,  a  multitude 
of  filthy  colliers,  trim  merchantmen,  cattle- 
ships,  passenger-boats,  petroleum-tanks,  ocean 
tramps,  an  old  white  transport  even,  neat 
white  and  gray  liners  from  Southampton  and 
Hamburg  ;  and  along  the  blue  coast  across 
the  Blackwater  my  brother  could  make  out 
dimly  a  dense  swarm  of  boats  chaffering  with 
the  people  on  the  beach,  a  swarm  which  also 
extended  up  the  Blackwater  almost  to  Mal- 
don. 

About  a  couple  of  miles  out  lay  an  ironclad, 
very  low  in  the  w^ater,  almost,  to  my  brother's 
perception,  like  a  water-logged  ship.  This  was 
the  ram  Thunder  Child.  It  was  the  only  war- 
ship in  sight,  but  far  away  to  the  right  over 
the  smooth  surface  of  the  sea — for  that  day 
there  was  a  dead  calm — lay  a  serpent  of  black 
smoke  to  mark  the  next  ironclads  of  the  Chan- 
nel Fleet,  which  hovered  in  an  extended  line, 
steam  up  and  ready  for  action,  across  the 
Thames  estuary  during  the  course  of  the  Mar- 

175 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

tian  conquest,  vigilant  and  yet  powerless  to 
prevent  it. 

At  the  sight  of  the  sea,  Mrs.  Elphinstone,  in 
spite  of  the  assurances  of  her  sister-in-law,  gave 
way  to  panic.  She  had  never  been  out  of  Eng- 
land before,  she  would  rather  die  than  trust 
herself  friendless  in  a  foreign  country,  and  so 
forth.  She  seemed,  poor  woman,  to  imagine 
that  the  French  and  the  Martians  might  prove 
very  similar.  She  had  been  growing  increas- 
ingly hysterical,  fearful,  and  depressed  during 
the  two  days'  journeyings.  Her  great  idea 
was  to  return  to  Stanmore.  Things  had  been 
always  well  and  safe  at  Stanmore.  They  would 
find  George  at  Stanmore. 

It  was  with  the  greatest  difficulty  they  could 
get  her  down  to  the  beach,  where  presently 
my  brother  succeeded  in  attracting  the  atten- 
tion of  some  men  on  a  paddle  steamer  from 
the  Thames.  They  sent  a  boat  and  drove  a 
bargain  for  thirty-six  pounds  for  the  three. 
The  steamer  was  going,  these  men  said,  to 
Ostend. 

It  was  about  two  o'clock  when  my  brother, 
having  paid  their  fares  at  the  gangway,  found 
himself  safely  aboard  the  steamboat  with  his 
charges.  There  was  food  aboard,  albeit  at 
exorbitant  prices,  and  the  three  of  them  con- 
trived to  eat  a  meal  on  one  of  the  seats  forward 

176 


THE     ^'THUNDER    CHILD" 

There  were  already  a  couple  of  score  of 
passengers  aboard,  some  of  whom  had  ex- 
pended their  last  money  in  securing  a  passage, 
but  the  captain  lay  off  the  Blackwater  until 
five  in  the  afternoon,  picking  up  passengers 
until  the  seated  decks  were  even  dangerously 
crowded.  He  would  probably  have  remained 
longer  had  it  not  been  for  the  sound  of  guns 
that  began  about  that  hour  in  the  south.  As 
if  in  answer,  the  ironclad  seaward  fired  a  small 
gun  and  hoisted  a  string  of  flags.  A  jet  of 
smoke  sprang  out  of  her  funnels. 

Some  of  the  passengers  were  of  opinion  that 
this  firing  came  from  Shoeburyness,  until  it  was 
noticed  that  it  was  growing  louder.  At  the 
same  time,  far  away  in  the  southeast  the 
masts  and  upper-works  of  three  ironclads  rose 
one  after  the  other  out  of  the  sea,  beneath 
clouds  of  black  smoke.  But  my  brother's  at- 
tention speedily  reverted  to  the  distant  firing 
in  the  south.  He  fancied  he  saw  a  column  of 
smoke  rising  out  of  the  distant  gray  haze. 

The  little  steamer  was  already  flapping  her 
way  eastward  of  the  big  crescent  of  shipping, 
and  the  low  Essex  coast  was  growing  blue  and 
hazy,  when  a  Martian  appeared,  small  and  faint 
in  the  remote  distance,  advancing  along  the 
muddy  coast  from  the  direction  of  Foulness. 
At  that  the  captain  on  the  bridge  swore  at  the 

H  177 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

top  of  his  voice  with  fear  and  anger  at  his  own 
delay,  and  the  paddles  seemed  infected  with 
his  terror.  Every  soul  aboard  stood  at  the 
bulwarks  or  on  the  seats  of  the  steamer  and 
stared  at  that  distant  shape,  higher  than  the 
trees  or  church  towers  inland,  and  advancing 
with  a  leisurely  parody  of  a  human  stride. 

It  was  the  first  Martian  my  brother  had 
seen,  and  he  stood,  more  amazed  than  terrified, 
watching  this  Titan  advancing  deliberately  tow- 
ards the  shipping,  wading  farther  and  farther 
into  the  water  as  the  coast  fell  away.  Then, 
far  away  beyond  the  Crouch,  came  another, 
striding  over  some  stunted  trees,  and  then  yet 
another,  still  farther  off,  wading  deeply  through 
a  shiny  mud-flat  that  seemed  to  hang  half-way 
up  between  sea  and  sky.  They  were  all  stalk- 
ing seaward,  as  if  to  intercept  the  escape  of 
the  multitudinous  vessels  that  were  crowded 
between  Foulness  and  the  Naze.  In  spite 
of  the  throbbing  exertions  of  the  engines  of 
the  little  paddle-boat,  and  the  pouring  foam 
that  her  wheels  flung  behind  her,  she  receded 
with  terrifying  slowness  from  this  ominous 
advance. 

Glancing  northwestward,  my  brother  saw  the 
large  crescent  of  shipping  already  writhing 
with  the  approaching  terror  ;  one  ship  passing 
behind  another,  another   coming  round  from 

178 


THE    ''THUNDER    CHILD" 

broadside  to  end  on,  steamships  whistling  and 
giving  off  volumes  of  steam,  sails  being  let 
out,  launches  rushing  hither  and  thither.  He 
was  so  fascinated  by  this  and  by  the  creeping 
danger  away  to  the  left  that  he  had  no  eyes 
for  anything  seaward.  And  then  a  swift  move- 
ment of  the  steamboat  (she  had  suddenly  come 
round  to  avoid  being  run  down)  flung  him 
headlong  from  the  seat  upon  which  he  was 
standing.  There  was  a  shouting  all  about 
him,  a  trampling  of  feet,  and  a  cheer  that 
seemed  to  be  answered  faintly.  The  steam- 
boat lurched  and  rolled  him  over  upon  his 
hands. 

He  sprang  to  his  feet  and  saw  to  starboard, 
and  not  a  hundred  yards  fromi  their  heeling, 
pitching  boat,  a  vast  iron  bulk  like  the  blade 
of  a  plough  tearing  through  the  water,  tossing 
it  on  either  side  in  huge  waves  of  foam  that 
leaped  towards  the  steamer,  flinging  her  pad- 
dles helplessly  in  the  air,  and  then  sucking  her 
deC^k  down  almost  to  the  water-line. 

A  douche  of  spray  blinded  my  brother  for  a 
moment.  When  his  eyes  were  clear  again  he 
saw  the  monster  had  passed  and  was  rushing 
landward.  Big  iron  upper-works  rose  out  of 
this  headlong  structure,  and  from  that  twin 
funnels  projected  and  spat  a  smoking  blast 
shot  with  fire  into  the  air.    It  was  the  torpedo- 

179 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

ram,  Thunder  Child^  steaming  headlong,  com- 
ing  to  the  rescue  of  the  threatened  shipping. 

Keeping  his  footing  on  the  heaving  deck  by- 
clutching  the  bulwarks,  my  brother  looked  past 
this  charging  leviathan  at  the  Martians  again, 
and  he  saw  the  three  of  them  now  close  to- 
gether, and  standing  so  far  out  to  sea  that 
their  tripod  supports  were  almost  entirely  sub- 
merged. Thus  sunken,  and  seen  in  remote 
perspective,  they  appeared  far  less  formidable 
than  the  huge  iron  bulk  in  whose  wake  the 
steamer  was  pitching  so  helplessly.  It  would 
seem  they  were  regarding  this  new  antagonist 
with  astonishment.  To  their  intelligence,  it 
may  be,  the  giant  was  even  such  another  as 
themselves.  The  Thunder  Child  fired  no  gun, 
but  simply  drove  full  speed  towards  them.  It 
was  probably  her  not  firing  that  enabled  her  to 
get  so  near  the  enemy  as  she  did.  They  did 
not  know  what  to  make  of  her.  One  shell, 
and  they  would  have  sent  her  to  the  bottom 
forthwith  with  the  Heat-Ray. 

She  was  steaming  at  such  a  pace  that  in  a 
minute  she  seemed  half-way  between  the 
steamboat  and  the  Martians  —  a  diminishing 
black  bulk  against  the  receding  horizontal  ex- 
panse of  the  Essex  coast. 

Suddenly  the  foremost  Martian  lowered  his- 
tube  and  discharged  a  canister  of  the  black 

i8o 


THE    ''THUNDER     CHILD'' 

gas  at  the  ironclad.  It  hit  her  larboard  side 
and  glanced  off  in  an  inky  jet  that  rolled 
away  to  seaward,  an  unfolding  torrent  of  Black 
Smoke,  from  which  the  ironclad  drove  clear. 
To  the  watchers  from  the  steamer,  low  in  the 
water  and  with  the  sun  in  their  eyes,  it  seemed 
as  though  she  were  already  among  the  Mar- 
tians. 

They  saw  the  gaunt  figures  separating  and 
rising  out  of  the  water  as  they  retreated  shore- 
ward, and  one  of  them  raised  the  camera-like 
generator  of  the  Heat-Ray.  He  held  it  point- 
ing obliquely  downward,  and  a  bank  of  steam 
sprang  from  the  water  at  its  touch.  It  must 
have  driven  through  the  iron  of  the  ship's  side 
like  a  white-hot  iron  rod  through  paper. 

A  flicker  of  flame  went  up  through  the  ris- 
ing steam,  and  then  the  Martian  reeled  and 
staggered.  In  another  moment  he  was  cut 
down,  and  a  great  body  of  water  and  steam 
shot  high  in  the  air.  The  guns  of  the  Thunder 
Child  sounded  through  the  reek,  going  off  one 
after  the  other,  and  one  shot  splashed  the 
water  high  close  by  the  steamer,  ricochetted 
towards  the  other  flying  ships  to  the  north, 
and  smashed  a  smack  to  match-wood. 

But  no  one  heeded  that  very  much.  At  the 
sight  of  the  Martian's  collapse  the  captain  on 
the  bridge  yelled  inarticulately,  and   all  the 

i8i 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

crowding  passengers  on  the  steamer's  stern 
shouted  together.  And  then  they  yelled  again. 
For,  surging  out  beyond  the  white  tumult 
drove  something  long  and  black,  the  flames 
streaming  from  its  middle  parts,  its  ventilators 
and  funnels  spouting  fire. 

She  was  alive  still ;  the  steering  -  gear,  it 
seems,  was  intact  and  her  engines  working. 
She  headed  straight  for  a  second  Martian,  and 
was  within  a  hundred  yards  of  him  when  the 
Heat-Ray  came  to  bear.  Then  with  a  violent 
thud,  a  blinding  flash,  her  decks,  her  funnels, 
leaped  upward.  The  Martian  staggered  with 
the  violence  of  her  explosion,  and  in  another 
moment  the  flaming  wreckage,  still  driving 
forward  with  the  impetus  of  its  pace,  had 
struck  him  and  crumpled  him  up  like  a  thing 
of  card-board.  My  brother  shouted  involun- 
tarily. A  boiling  tumult  of  steam  hid  every- 
thing again. 

"Two  !"  yelled  the  captain. 

Every  one  was  shouting.  The  whole  steamer 
from  end  to  end  rang  with  frantic  cheering  that 
was  taken  up  first  by  one  and  then  by  all  in  the 
crowding  multitude  of  ships  and  boats  that  was 
driving  out  to  sea. 

The  steam  hung  upon  the  water  for  many 
minutes,  hiding  the  third  Martian  and  the  coast 
altogether.   And  all  this  time  the  boat  was  pad- 

182 


THE     '^THUNDER    CHILD'' 

dling  steadily  out  to  sea  and  away  from  the 
fight ;  and  when,  at  last,  the  confusion  cleared, 
the  drifting  bank  of  black  vapor  intervened, 
and  nothing  of  the  Thunder  Child  could  be 
made  out,  nor  could  the  third  Martian  be  seen. 
But  the  ironclads  to  seaward  were  now  quite 
close  and  standing  in  towards  shore  past  the 
steamboat. 

The  little  vessel  continued  to  beat  its  way 
seaward,  and  the  ironclads  receded  slowly  tow- 
ards the  coast,  which  was  hidden  still  by  a 
marbled  bank  of  vapor,  part  steam,  part  black 
gas,  eddying  and  combining  in  the  strangest 
ways.  The  fleet  of  refugees  was  scattering 
to  the  northeast ;  several  smacks  were  sailing 
between  the  ironclads  and  the  steamboat. 
After  a  time,  and  before  they  reached  the 
sinking  cloud-bank,  the  warships  turned  north- 
ward, and  then  abruptly  went  about  and 
passed  into  the  thickening  haze  of  evening, 
southward.  The  coast  grew  faint,  and,  at  last, 
indistinguishable  amid  the  low  banks  of  clouds 
that  were  gathering  about  the  sinking  sun. 

Then  suddenly  out  of  the  golden  haze  of  the 
sunset  came  the  vibration  of  guns,  and  a  form 
of  black  shadows  moving.  Every  one  struggled 
to  the  rail  of  the  steamer  and  peered  into  the 
blinding  furnace  of  the  west,  but  nothing  was 
to  be  distinguished  clearly.     A  mass  of  smoke 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

rose  slantingly  and  barred  the  face  of  the  sun. 
The  steamboat  throbbed  on  its  way  through 
an  interminable  suspense. 

The  sun  sank  into  gray  clouds,  the  sky 
flushed  and  darkened,  the  evening  star  trem- 
bled into  sight.  It  was  deep  twilight  when 
the  captain  cried  out  and  pointed.  My  brother 
strained  his  eyes.  Something  rushed  up  into 
the  sky  out  of  the  grayness — rushed  slantingly 
upward  and  very  swiftly  into  the  luminous 
clearness  above  the  clouds  in  the  western  sky ; 
something  flat  and  broad  and  very  large,  that 
swept  round  in  a  vast  curve,  grew  smaller,  sank 
slowly,  and  vanished  again  into  the  gray  mys- 
tery of  the  night.  And  as  it  flew  it  rained  down 
darkness  upon  the  land. 


THE  EARTH  UNDER  THE  MARTIANS 


UNDER  FOOT 

In  the  first  book  I  have  wandered  so  much 
from  my  own  adventures  to  tell  of  the  experi- 
ences of  my  brother  that  all  through  the  last 
two  chapters  I  and  the  curate  have  been  lurk- 
ing in  the  empty  house  at  Halliford  whither 
we  fled  to  escape  the  Black  Smoke.  There  I 
will  resume.  We  stopped  there  all  Sunday 
night  and  all  the  next  day — the  day  of  the 
panic — in  a  little  island  of  daylight,  cut  off  by 
the  Black  Smoke  from  the  rest  of  the  world. 
We  could  do  nothing  but  wait  in  an  aching 
inactivity  during  those  two  weary  days. 

My  mind  was  occupied  by  anxiety  for  my 
wife.  I  figured  her  at  Leatherhead,  terrified, 
in  danger,  mourning  me  already  as  a  dead  man. 
I  paced  the  rooms  and  cried  aloud  when  I 
thought  of  how  I  was  cut  off  from  her,  of  all 
that  might  happen  to  her  in  my  absence.  My 
cousin  I  knew  was  brave  enough  for  any  emer- 
gency, but  he  was  not  the  sort  of  man  to  re- 
alize danger  quickly,  to  rise  promptly.     What 

187 


THE    WAR    OF  THE    WORLDS 

was  needed  now  was  not  bravery,  but  circum- 
spection. My  only  consolation  was  to  believe 
that  the  Martians  were  moving  Londonward 
and  away  from  her.  Such  vague  anxieties  keep 
the  mind  sensitive  and  painful.  I  grew  very 
weary  and  irritable  with  the  curate's  perpetual 
ejaculations  ;  I  tired  of  the  sight  of  his  selfish 
despair.  After  some  ineffectual  remonstrance 
I  kept  away  from  him,  staying  in  a  room — 
evidently  a  children's  school -room — contain- 
ing globes,  forms,  and  copy-books.  When,  at 
last,  he  followed  me  thither,  I  went  to  a  box- 
room  at  the  top  of  the  house  and,  in  order  to 
be  alone  with  my  aching  miseries,  locked  my- 
self in. 

We  were  hopelessly  hemmed  in  by  the  Black 
Smoke  all  that  day  and  the  morning  of  the 
next.  There  were  signs  of  people  in  the  next 
house  on  Sunday  evening — a  face  at  a  window, 
and  moving  lights,  and  later  the  slamming  of 
a  door.  But  I  do  not  know  who  these  people 
were,  nor  what  became  of  them.  We  saw 
nothing  of  them  next  day.  The  Black  Smoke 
drifted  slowly  riverward  all  through  Monday 
morning,  creeping  nearer  and  nearer  to  us, 
driving  at  last  along  the  roadway  outside  the 
house  that  hid  us. 

A  Martian  came  across  the  fields  about  mid- 
day, laying  the  stuff  with  a  jet  of  superheated 

1 88 


UNDER    FOOT 

steam  that  hissed  against  the  walls,  smashed 
all  the  windows  it  touched,  and  scalded  the 
curate's  hand  as  he  fled  out  of  the  front-room. 
When  at  last  we  crept  across  the  sodden  rooms 
and  looked  out  again,  the  country  northward 
was  as  though  a  black  snowstorm  had  passed 
over  it.  Looking  towards  the  river,  we  were 
astonished  to  see  an  unaccountable  redness 
mingling  with  the  black  of  the  scorched  mead- 
ows. 

For  a  time  we  did  not  see  how  this  change 
affected  our  position,  save  that  we  were  re- 
lieved of  our  fear  of  the  Black  Smoke.  But 
later  I  perceived  that  we  were  no  longer 
hemmed  in,  that  now  we  might  get  away.  So 
soon  as  I  realized  that  the  way  of  escape  was 
open,  my  dream  of  action  returned.  But  the 
curate  was  lethargic,  unreasonable. 

"  We  are  safe  here,"  he  repeated ;  "  safe 
here." 

I  resolved  to  leave  him — would  that  I  had ! 
Wiser  now  for  the  artilleryman's  teaching,  I 
sought  out  food  and  drink.  I  had  found  oil 
and  rags  for  my  burns,  and  I  also  took  a  hat 
and  a  flannel  shirt  that  I  found  in  one  of  the 
bedrooms.  When  it  was  clear  to  him  that  I 
meant  to  go  alone — had  reconciled  myself  to  go- 
ing alone — he  suddenly  roused  himself  to  come. 
And,  all  being  quiet  throughout  the  afternoon, 

189 


THE    WAR    OF   THE    WORLDS 

we  started  about  five  o'clock,  as  I  should  judge, 
along  the  blackened  road  to  Sunbury. 

In  Sunbury,  and  at  intervals  along  the  road, 
were  dead  bodies  lying  in  contorted  attitudes — 
horses  as  well  as  men — overturned  carts  and 
luggage,  all  covered  thickly  with  black  dust. 
That  pall  of  cindery  powder  made  me  think  of 
what  I  had  read  of  the  destruction  of  Pompeii. 
We  got  to  Hampton  Court  without  misadvent- 
ure, our  minds  full  of  strange  and  unfamiliar 
appearances,  and  at  Hampton  Court  our  eyes 
were  relieved  to  find  a  patch  of  green  that  had 
escaped  the  suffocating  drift.  We  went  through 
Bushey  Park,  with  its  deer  going  to  and  fro 
under  the  chestnuts,  and  some  men  and  women 
hurrying  in  the  distance  towards  Hampton, 
and  so  we  came  to  Twickenham.  These  were 
the  first  people  we  saw. 

Away  across  the  road  the  woods  beyond 
Ham  and  Petersham  were  still  afire.  Twick- 
enham was  uninjured  by  either  Heat-Ray  or 
Black  Smoke,  and  there  were  more  people 
about  here,  though  none  could  give  us  news. 
For  the  most  part  they  were  like  ourselves, 
taking  advantage  of  a  lull  to  shift  their  quar- 
ters. I  have  an  impression  that  many  of  the 
houses  here  were  still  occupied  by  scared  in- 
habitants, too  frightened  even  for  flight.  Here, 
too,  the  evidence  of  a  hasty  rout  was  abundant 

190 


UNDER    FOOT 

^long  the  road.  I  remember  most  vividly  three 
smashed  bicycles  in  a  heap,  pounded  into  the 
road  by  the  wheels  of  subsequent  carts.  We 
crossed  Richmond  Bridge  about  half-past  eight. 
We  hurried  across  the  exposed  bridge,  of  course, 
but  I  noticed  floating  down  the  stream  a  num- 
ber of  red  masses,  some  many  feet  across.  I 
did  not  know  what  these  were — there  was  no 
time  for  scrutiny — and  I  put  a  more  horrible 
interpretation  on  them  than  they  deserved. 
Here,  again,  on  the  Surrey  side,  were  black 
dust  that  had  once  been  smoke,  and  dead  bod- 
ies— a  heap  near  the  approach  to  the  station ; 
but  we  caught  not  a  sight  of  the  Martians 
until  we  were  some  way  towards  Barnes. 

We  saw  in  the  blackened  distance  a  group 
of  three  people  running  down  a  side  street 
towards  the  river,  but  otherwise  it  seemed  de- 
serted. Up  the  hill  Richmond  town  was  burn- 
ing briskly  ;  outside  the  town  of  Richmond 
there  was  no  trace  of  the  Black  Smoke. 

Then,  suddenly,  as  we  approached  Kew,  came 
a  number  of  people  running,  and  the  upper- 
works  of  a  Martian  fighting-machine  loomed 
in  sight  over  the  house  -  tops,  not  a  hundred 
yards  away  from  us.  We  stood  aghast  at  our 
danger,  and  had  he  looked  down  we  must  im- 
mediately have  perished.  We  were  so  terrified 
that  we  dared  not  go  on,  but  turned  aside  and 

191 


THE    WAR    OF   THE    WORLDS 

hid  in  a  shed  in  a  garden.  There  the  curate 
crouched,  weeping  silently,  and  refusing  to  stir 
again. 

But  my  fixed  idea  of  reaching  Leatherhead 
would  not  let  me  rest,  and  in  the  twilight  I 
ventured  out  again.  I  went  through  a  shrub- 
bery, and  along  a  passage  beside  a  big  house 
standing  in  its  own  grounds,  and  so  emerged 
upon  the  road  towards  Kew.  The  curate  I 
left  in  the  shed,  but  he  came  hurrying  after  me. 

That  second  start  was  the  most  foolhardy 
thing  I  ever  did.  For  it  was  manifest  the  Mar- 
tians were  about  us.  No  sooner  had  the  curate 
overtaken  me  than  we  saw  either  the  fighting- 
machine  we  had  seen  before  or  another,  far 
away  across  the  meadows  in  the  direction  of 
Kew  Lodge.  Four  or  five  little  black  figures 
hurried  before  it  across  the  green-gray  of  the 
field,  and  in  a  moment  it  was  evident  this 
Martian  pursued  them.  In  three  strides  he 
was  among  them,  and  they  ran  radiating  from 
his  feet  in  all  directions.  He  used  no  Heat- 
Ray  to  destroy  them,  but  picked  them  up  one 
by  one.  Apparently  he  tossed  them  into  the 
great  metallic  carrier  which  projected  behind 
him,  much  as  a  workman's  basket  hangs  over 
his  shoulder. 

It  was  the  first  time  I  realized  that  the  Mar- 
tians might  have  any  other  purpose  than  de- 

192 


UNDER    FOOT 

struction  with  defeated  humanity.  We  stood 
for  a  moment  petrified,  then  turned  and  fled 
through  a  gate  behind  us  into  a  walled  garden, 
fell  into,  rather  than  found,  a  fortunate  ditch, 
and  lay  there,  scarce  daring  to  whisper  to  each 
other  until  the  stars  were  out. 

I  suppose  it  was  nearly  eleven  o'clock  before 
we  gathered  courage  to  start  again,  no  longer 
venturing  into  the  road,  but  sneaking  along 
hedge -rows  and  through  plantations,  and 
watching  keenly  through  the  darkness,  he  on 
the  right  and  I  on  the  left,  for  the  Martians, 
who  seemed  to  be  all  about  us.  In  one  place 
we  blundered  upon  a  scorched  and  blackened 
area,  now  cooling  and  ashen,  and  a  number  of 
scattered  dead  bodies  of  men,  burned  horribly 
about  the  heads  and  trunks,  but  with  their  legs 
and  boots  mostly  intact ;  and  of  dead  horses, 
fifty  feet,  perhaps,  behind  a  line  of  four  ripped 
guns  and  smashed  gun-carriages. 

Sheen,  it  seemed,  had  escaped  destruction, 
but  the  place  was  silent  and  deserted.  Here 
we  happened  on  no  dead,  though  the  night 
was  too  dark  for  us  to  see  into  the  side  roads 
of  the  place.  In  Sheen  my  companion  sud- 
denly complained  of  faintness  and  thirst,  and 
we  decided  to  try  one  of  the  houses. 

The  first  house  we  entered,  after  a  little 
<ifl&culty  with  the  window,  was  a  small  semi- 

N  IQ2 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

detached  villa,  and  I  found  nothing  eatable 
left  in  the  place  but  some  mouldy  cheese. 
There  was,  however,  water  to  drink  ;  and  I  took 
a  hatchet,  which  promised  to  be  useful  in  our 
next  house-breaking. 

We  then  crossed  to  a  place  where  the  road 
turns  towards  Mortlake.  Here  there  stood 
a  white  house  within  a  walled  garden,  and  in 
the  pantry  of  this  domicile  we  found  a  store 
of  food — two  loaves  of  bread  in  a  pan,  an  un- 
cooked steak,  and  the  half  of  a  ham.  I  give 
this  catalogue  so  precisely  because,  as  it  hap- 
pened, we  were  destined  to  subsist  upon  this 
store  for  the  next  fortnight.  Bottled  beer 
stood  under  a  shelf,  and  there  were  two  bags 
of  haricot  beans  and  some  limp  lettuces.  This 
pantry  opened  into  a  kind  of  wash-up  kitchen, 
and  in  this  was  firewood  ;  there  was  also  a  cup- 
board, in  which  we  found  nearly  a  dozen  of 
burgundy,  tinned  soups  and  salmon,  and  two 
tins  of  biscuits. 

We  sat  in  the  adjacent  kitchen  in  the  dark — 
for  we  dared  not  strike  a  light — and  ate  bread 
and  ham,  and  drank  beer  out  of  the  same  bottle. 
The  curate,  who  was  still  timorous  and  rest- 
less, was  now,  oddly  enough,  for  pushing  on, 
and  I  was  urging  him  to  keep  up  his  strength 
by  eating  when  the  thing  that  was  to  imprison 
us  happened. 

194 


UNDER    FOOT 

"  It  can't  be  midnight  yet,'*  I  said,  and  then 
came  a  blinding  glare  of  vivid  green  light. 
Everything  in  the  kitchen  leaped  out,  clearly 
visible  in  green  and  black,  and  vanished  again. 
And  then  followed  such  a  concussion  as  I  have 
never  heard  before  or  since.  So  close  on  the 
heels  of  this  as  to  seem  instantaneous  came 
a  thud  behind  me,  a  clash  of  glass,  a  crash  and 
rattle  of  falling  masonry  all  about  us,  and  in- 
continently the  plaster  of  the  ceiling  came 
down  upon  us,  smashing  into  a  multitude  of 
fragments  upon  our  heads.  I  was  knocked 
headlong  across  the  floor  against  the  oven 
handle  and  stunned.  I  was  insensible  for  a 
long  time,  the  curate  told  me,  and  when  I 
came  to  we  were  in  darkness  again,  and  he, 
with  a  face  wet,  as  I  found  afterwards,  with 
blood  from  a  cut  forehead,  was  dabbing  water 
over  me. 

For  some  time  I  could  not  recollect  what  had 
happened.  Then  things  came  to  me  slowly. 
A  bruise  on  my  temple  asserted  itself. 

"Are  you  better?"  asked  the  curate,  in  a 
whisper. 

At  last  I  answered  him.     I  sat  up. 

"  Don't  move,"  he  said  "  The  floor  is  cov- 
ered with  smashed  crockery  from  the  dresser. 
You  can't  possibly  move  without  making  a 
noise,  and  I  fancy  they  are  outside." 

195 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

We  both  sat  quite  silent,  so  that  we  could 
scarcely  hear  each  other  breathing.  Every- 
thing seemed  deadly  still,  but  once  something 
near  us,  some  plaster  or  broken  brick  -  work, 
slid  down  with  a  rumbling  sound.  Outside 
and  very  near  was  an  intermittent,  metallic 
rattle. 

"That!"  said  the  curate,  when  presently  it 
happened  again. 

"  Yes,"  I  said.  ^  "  But  what  is  it  ?" 

"A  Martian  !"  said  the  curate. 

I  listened  again. 

"  It  was  not  like  the  Heat-Ray,"  I  said,  and 
for  a  time  I  was  inclined  to  think  one  of  the 
great  fighting-machines  had  stumbled  against 
the  house,  as  I  had  seen  one  stumble  against 
the  tower  of  Shepperton  Church. 

Our  situation  was  so  strange  and  incompre- 
hensible that  for  three  or  four  hours,  until  the 
dawn  came,  we  scarcely  moved.  And  then 
the  light  filtered  in,  not  through  the  window, 
which  remained  black,  but  through  a  triangu- 
lar aperture  between  a  beam  and  a  heap  of 
broken  bricks  in  the  wall  behind  us.  The  in- 
terior of  the  kitchen  we  now  saw  grayly  for 
the  first  time. 

The  window  had  been  burst  in  by  a  mass  of 
garden  mould,  which  flowed  over  the  table 
upon  which  we  had  been  sitting  and  lay  about 

196 


UNDER    FOOT 

'Our  feet.  Outside,  the  soil  was  banked  high 
against  the  house.  At  the  top  of  the  window- 
frame  we  could  see  an  uprooted  drain -pipe. 
The  floor  was  littered  with  smashed  hardware ; 
the  end  of  the  kitchen  towards  the  house  was 
broken  into,  and  since  the  daylight  shone  in 
there,  it  was  evident  the  greater  part  of  the 
house  had  collapsed.  Contrasting  vividly  with 
this  ruin  was  the  neat  dresser,  stained  in  the 
fashion,  pale  green,  and  with  a  number  of  cop- 
per and  tin  vessels  below  it,  the  wall-paper 
imitating  blue  and  white  tiles,  and  a  couple  of 
colored  supplements  fluttering  from  the  walls 
above  the  kitchen  range. 

As  the  dawn  grew  clearer,  we  saw  through 
the  gap  in  the  wall  the  body  of  a  Martian, 
standing  sentinel,  I  suppose,  over  the  still  glow- 
ing cylinder.  At  the  sight  of  that  we  crawled 
as  circumspectly  as  possible  out  of  the  twilight 
of  the  kitchen  into  the  darkness  of  the  scullery. 

Abruptly  the  right  interpretation  of  the 
things  dawned  upon  my  mind. 

"The  fifth  cylinder,"  I  whispered,  "the  fifth 
shot  from  Mars,  has  struck  this  house  and 
buried  us  under  the  ruins  !" 

For  a  time  the  curate  was  silent,  and  then 
he  whispered  : 

"  God  have  mercy  upon  us  !'* 

I  heard  him  presently  whimpering  to  himself. 

197 


THE   WAR   OF    THE    WORLDS 

Save  for  that  sound  we  lay  quite  still  in  the 
scullery  ;  I  for  my  part  scarce  dared  breathe, 
and  sat  with  my  eyes  fixed  on  the  faint  light 
of  the  kitchen  door.  I  could  just  see  the 
curate's  face,  a  dim,  oval  shape,  and  his  collar 
and  cuffs.  Outside  there  began  a  metallic 
hammering,  then  a  violent  hooting,  and  then 
again,  after  a  quiet  interval,  a  hissing,  like  the 
hissing  of  an  engine.  These  noises,  for  the 
most  part  problematical,  continued  intermit- 
tently, and  seemed,  if  anything,  to  increase  in 
number  as  the  time  wore  on.  Presently  a 
measured  thudding,  and  a  vibration  that  made 
everything  about  us  quiver  and  the  vessels  in 
the  pantry  ring  and  shift,  began  and  continued. 
Once  the  light  was  eclipsed,  and  the  ghostly 
kitchen  doorway  became  absolutely  dark.  For 
many  hours  we  must  have  crouched  there,  silent 
and  shivering,  until  our  tired  attention  failed 

At  last  I  found  myself  awake  and  very  hun- 
gry. I  am  inclined  to  believe  we  must  have 
spent  the  greater  portion  of  a  day  before  that 
awakening.  My  hunger  was  at  a  stride  so  in- 
sistent that  it  moved  me  to  action.  I  told  the 
curate  I  was  going  to  seek  food,  and  felt  my 
way  towards  the  pantry.  He  made  me  no  an- 
swer, but  so  soon  as  I  began  eating  the  faint 
noise  I  made  stirred  him  to  action,  and  I  heard 
him  crawling  after  me. 

198 


II 

WHAT  WE  SAW   FROM   THE   RUINED   HOUSE 

After  eating  we  crept  back  to  the  scullery, 
and  there  I  must  have  dozed  again,  for  when 
presently  I  stirred  I  was  alone.  The  thudding 
vibration  continued  with  wearisome  persist- 
ence. I  whispered  for  the  curate  several  times, 
and  at  last  felt  my  way  to  the  door  of  the 
kitchen.  It  was  still  daylight,  and  I  perceived 
him  across  the  room,  lying  against  the  trian- 
gular hole  that  looked  out  upon  the  Martians. 
His  shoulders  were  hunched,  so  that  his  head 
was  hidden  from  me. 

I  could  hear  a  number  of  noises,  almost  like 
those  in  an  engine-shed,  and  the  place  rocked 
with  that  beating  thud.  Through  the  aper- 
ture in  the  wall  I  could  see  the  top  of  a  tree 
touched  with  gold,  and  the  warm  blue  of  a 
tranquil  evening  sky.  For  a  minute  or  so  I 
remained  watching  the  curate,  and  then  I  ad- 
vanced, crouching  and  stepping  with  extreme 
care  amid  the  broken  crockery  that  littered 
the  floor. 

199 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

I  touched  the  curate's  leg,  and  he  started  so 
violently  that  a  mass  of  plaster  went  sliding 
down  outside  and  fell  with  a  loud  impact.  I 
gripped  his  arm,  fearing  he  might  cry  out, 
and  for  a  long  time  we  crouched  motionless. 
Then  I  turned  to  see  how  much  of  our  rampart 
remained.  The  detachment  of  the  plaster  had 
left  a  vertical  slit  open  in  the  debris,  and  by 
raising  myself  cautiously  across  a  beam  I  was 
able  to  see  out  of  this  gap  into  what  had  been 
overnight  a  quiet  suburban  roadway.  Vast, 
indeed,  was  the  change  that  we  beheld. 

The  fifth  cylinder  must  have  fallen  right 
into  the  midst  of  the  house  we  had  first  vis- 
ited. The  building  had  vanished,  completely 
smashed,  pulverized,  and  dispersed  by  the  blow. 
The  cylinder  lay  now  far  beneath  the  original 
foundations — deep  in  a  hole,  already  vastly 
larger  than  the  pit  I  had  looked  into  at  Wo- 
king. The  earth  all  round  it  had  splashed  un- 
der that  tremendous  impact — *' splashed"  is 
the  only  word — and  lay  in  heaped  piles  that 
hid  the  masses  of  the  adjacent  houses.  It  had 
behaved  exactly  like  mud  under  the  violent 
blow  of  a  hammer.  Our  house  had  collapsed 
backward ;  the  front  portion,  even  on  the 
ground  floor,  had  been  destroyed  completely  ; 
by  a  chance,  the  kitchen  and  scullery  had 
escaped,  and  stood  buried  now  under  soil  and 

200 


SEEN    FROM   THE    RUINED    HOUSE 

ruins,  closed  in  by  tons  of  earth  on  every  side, 
save  towards  the  cylinder.  Over  that  aspect 
we  hung  now  on  the  very  edge  of  the  great 
circular  pit  the  Martians  were  engaged  in 
making.  The  heavy  beating  sound  was  evi- 
dently just  behind  us,  and  ever  and  again  a 
bright  green  vapor  drove  up  like  a  veil  across 
our  peep-hole. 

The  cylinder  was  already  opened  in  the 
centre  of  the  pit,  and  on  the  farther  edge  of 
the  pit,  amid  the  smashed  and  gravel-heaped 
shrubbery,  one  of  the  great  fighting-machines, 
deserted  by  its  occupant,  stood  stiff  and  tall 
against  the  evening  sky.  At  first  I  scarcely 
noticed  the  pit  and  the  cylinder,  although  it 
has  been  convenient  to  describe  them  first, 
on  account  of  the  extraordinary  glittering 
mechanism  I  saw,  busy  in  the  excavation,  and 
on  account  of  the  strange  creatures  that 
were  crawling  slowly  and  painfully  across  the 
heaped  mould  near  it. 

The  mechanism  it  certainly  was  that  held  my 
attention  first.  It  was  one  of  those  complicated 
fabrics  that  have  since  been  called  handling- 
machines,  and  the  study  of  which  has  already 
given  such  an  enormous  impetus  to  terres- 
trial invention.  As  it  dawned. upon  me  first 
it  presented  a  sort  of  metallic  spider  with  five 
jointed,  agile  legs,  and  with  an  extraordinary 

20I 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

number  of  jointed  levers,  bars,  and  reaching 
and  clutching  tentacles  about  its  body.  Most 
of  its  arms  were  retracted,  but  with  three  long 
tentacles  it  was  fishing  out  a  number  of  rods, 
plates,  and  bars  which  lined  the  covering  of, 
and  apparently  strengthened  the  walls  of,  the 
cylinder.  These,  as  it  extracted  them,  were 
lifted  out  and  deposited  upon  a  level  surface  of 
earth  behind  it. 

Its  motion  was  so  swift,  complex,  and  perfect 
that  at  first  I  did  not  see  it  as  a  machine,  in 
spite  of  its  metallic  glitter.  The  fighting- 
machines  were  co-ordinated  and  animated  to 
an  extraordinary  pitch,  but  nothing  to  com- 
pare with  this.  People  who  have  never  seen 
these  structures,  and  have  only  the  ill-imag- 
ined efforts  of  artists  or  the  imperfect  descrip- 
tions of  such  eye-witnesses  as  myself  to  go 
upon,  scarcely  realize  that  living  quality. 

I  recall  particularly  the  illustration  of  one 
of  the  first  pamphlets  to  give  a  consecutive 
account  of  the  war.  The  artist  had  evidently 
made  a  hasty  study  of  one  of  the  fighting- 
machines,  and  there  his  knowledge  ended.  He 
presented  them  as  tilted,  stiff  tripods,  without 
either  flexibility  or  subtlety,  and  with  an  alto- 
gether misleading  monotony  of  effect.  The 
pamphlet  containing  these  renderings  had  a 
considerable  vogue,  and  I  mention  them  here 

202 


SEEN    FROM  THE    RUINED    HOUSE 

simply  to  warn  the  reader  against  the  impres- 
sion they  may  have  created.  They  were  no 
more  like  the  Martians  I  saw  in  action  than  a 
Dutch  doll  is  like  a  human  being.  To  my 
mind,  the  pamphlet  would  have  been  much 
better  without  them. 

At  first,  I  say,  the  handling-machine  did  not 
impress  me  as  a  machine,  but  as  a  crab -like 
creature  with  a  glittering  integument,  the 
controlling  Martian  whose  delicate  tentacles 
actuated  its  movements  seeming  to  be  simply 
the  equivalent  of  the  crab's  cerebral  portion. 
But  then  I  perceived  the  resemblance  of  its 
gray-brown,  shiny,  leathery  integument  to  that 
of  the  other  sprawling  bodies  beyond,  and  the 
true  nature  of  this  dexterous  workman  dawned 
upon  me.  With  that  realization  my  interest 
shifted  to  those  other  creatures,  the  real 
Martians.  Already  I  had  had  a  transient  im- 
pression of  these,  and  the  first  nausea  no 
longer  obscured  my  observation.  Moreover,  I 
was  concealed  and  motionless,  and  under  no 
urgency  of  action. 

They  were,  I  now  saw,  the  most  unearthly 
creatures  it  is  possible  to  conceive.  They  were 
huge  round  bodies — or,  rather,  heads — about 
four  feet  in  diameter,  each  body  having  in 
front  of  it  a  face.  This  face  had  no  nostrils — 
indeed,  the  Martians  do  not  seem  to  have  had 

203 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

any  sense  of  smell,  but  it  had  a  pair  of  very 
large,  dark-colored  eyes,  and  just  beneath  this 
a  kind  of  fleshy  beak.  In  the  back  of  this  head 
or  body — I  scarcely  know  how  to  speak  of  it — 
was  the  single  tight  tympanic  surface,  since 
known  to  be  anatomically  an  ear,  though  it 
must  have  been  almost  useless  in  our  denser 
air.  In  a  group  round  the  mouth  were  sixteen 
slender,  almost  whip -like  tentacles,  arranged 
in  two  bunches  of  eight  each.  These  bunches 
have  since  been  named  rather  aptly,  by  that 
distinguished  anatomist.  Professor  Howes,  the 
hands.  Even  as  I  saw  these  Martians  for  the 
first  time  they  seemed  to  be  endeavoring  to 
raise  themselves  on  these  hands,  but  of 
course,  with  the  increased  weight  of  terres- 
trial conditions,  this  was  impossible.  There 
is  reason  to  suppose  that  on  Mars  they  may 
have  progressed  upon  them  with  some  fa- 
cility. 

The  internal  anatomy,  I  may  remark  here,  as 
dissection  has  since  shown,  was  almost  equally 
simple.  The  greater  part  of  the  structure  was 
the  brain,  sending  enormous  nerves  to  the 
eyes,  ear,  and  tactile  tentacles.  Besides  this 
were  the  complex  lungs,  into  which  the  mouth 
opened,  and  the  heart  and  its  vessels.  The  pul- 
monary distress  caused  by  the  denser  atmos- 
phere and  greater  gravitational  attraction  was 

204 


SEEN    FROM    THE    RUINED    HOUSE 

only  too  evident  in  the  convulsive  movements 
of  the  outer  skin. 

And  this  was  the  sum  of  the  Martian  organs. 
Strange  as  it  may  seem  to  a  human  being,  all 
the  complex  apparatus  of  digestion,  which 
makes  up  the  bulk  of  our  bodies,  did  not  exist 
in  the  Martians.  They  were  heads — merely 
heads.  Entrails  they  had  none.  They  did  not 
eat,  much  less  digest.  Instead,  they  took  the 
fresh,  living  blood  of  other  creatures,  and  in- 
jected it  into  their  own  veins.  I  have  myself 
seen  this  being  done,  as  I  shall  mention  in  its 
place.  But,  squeamish  as  I  may  seem,  I  can- 
not bring  myself  to  describe  what  I  could  not 
endure  even  to  continue  watching.  Let  it 
suffice  to  say,  blood  obtained  from  a  still  living 
animal,  in  most  cases  from  a  human  being,  was 
run  directly  by  means  of  a  little  pipette  into 
the  recipient  canal.  .  .  . 

The  bare  idea  of  this  is  no  doubt  horribly 
repulsive  to  us,  but  at  the  same  time  I  think 
that  we  should  remember  how  repulsive  our 
carnivorous  habits  would  seem  to  an  intelli- 
gent rabbit. 

The  physiological  advantages  of  the  practice 
of  injection  are  undeniable,  if  one  thinks  of  the 
tremendous  waste  of  human  time  and  energy 
occasioned  by  eating  and  the  digestive  process. 
Our  bodies  are  half  made  up  of  glands  and 

205 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

tubes  and  organs,  occupied  in  turning  hetero- 
geneous food  into  blood.  The  digestive  proc- 
esses and  their  reaction  upon  the  nervous 
system  sap  our  strength  and  color  our  minds. 
Men  go  happy  or  miserable  as  they  have 
healthy  or  unhealthy  livers,  or  sound  gastric 
glands.  But  the  Martians  were  lifted  above 
all  these  organic  fluctuations  of  mood  and 
emotion. 

Their  undeniable  preference  for  men  as  their 
source  of  nourishment  is  partly  explained  by 
the  nature  of  the  remains  of  the  victims  they 
had  brought  with  them  as  provisions  from 
Mars.  These  creatures,  to  judge  from  the 
shrivelled  remains  that  had  fallen  into  human 
hands,  were  bipeds,  with  flimsy,  silicious  skele- 
tons (almost  like  those  of  the  silicious  sponges) 
and  feeble  musculature,  standing  about  six 
feet  high,  and  having  round,  erect  heads,  and 
large  eyes  in  flinty  sockets.  Two  or  three  of 
these  seem  to  have  been  brought  in  each  cyl- 
inder, and  all  were  killed  before  earth  was 
reached.  It  was  just  as  well  for  them,  for  the 
mere  attempt  to  stand  upright  upon  our  planet 
would  have  broken  every  bone  in  their  bodies. 

And  while  I  am  engaged  in  this  description, 
I  may  add  in  this  place  certain  further  details, 
which,  although  they  were  not  all  evident  to 
us  at  the  time,  will  enable  the  reader  who  is 

206 


SEEN    FROM    THE    RUINED    HOUSE 

unacquainted  with  them  to  form  a  clearer  pict- 
ure of  these  offensive  creatures. 

In  three  other  points  their  physiology  dif- 
fered strangely  from  ours.  Their  organisms 
did  not  sleep,  any  more  than  the  heart  of  man 
sleeps.  Since  they  had  no  extensive  muscular 
mechanism  to  recuperate,  that  periodical  ex- 
tinction was  unknown  to  them.  They  had 
little  or  no  sense  of  fatigue,  it  would  seem. 
On  earth  they  could  never  have  moved  without 
effort,  yet  even  to  the  last  they  kept  in  action. 
In  twenty  -  four  hours  they  did  twenty  -  four 
hours  of  work,  as  even  on  earth  is  perhaps  the 
case  with  the  ants. 

In  the  next  place,  wonderful  as  it  seems  in 
a  sexual  world,  the  Martians  were  absolutely 
without  sex,  and  therefore  without  any  of  the 
tumultuous  emotions  that  arise  from  that  dif- 
ference among  men.  A  young  Martian,  there 
can  now  be  no  dispute,  was  really  born  upon 
earth  during  the  war,  and  it  was  found  at- 
tached to  its  parent,  partially  budded  off,  just 
as  young  lily-bulbs  bud  off,  or  like  the  young 
animals  in  the  fresh-water  polyp. 

In  man,  in  all  the  higher  terrestrial  animals, 
such  a  method  of  increase  has  disappeared ; 
but  even  on  this  earth  it  was  certainly  the 
primitive  method.  Among  the  lower  animals, 
up  even  to  those  first  cousins  of  the  vertebrated 

207 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

animals,  the  Tunicates,  the  two  processes  occur 
side  by  side,  but  finally  the  sexual  method  su- 
perseded its  competitor  altogether.  On  Mars, 
however,  just  the  reverse  has  apparently  been 
the  case. 

It  is  worthy  of  remark  that  a  certain  specu- 
lative writer  of  quasi-scientific  repute,  writing 
long  before  the  Martian  invasion,  did  forecast 
for  man  a  final  structure  not  unlike  the  actual 
Martian  condition.  His  prophecy,  I  remem- 
ber, appeared  in  November  or  December,  1893, 
in  a  long  defunct  publication,  the  Pall  Mall 
Budget^  and  I  recall  a  caricature  of  it  in  a  pre- 
Martian  periodical  called  Punch,  He  pointed 
out — writing  in  a  foolish,  facetious  tone — that 
the  perfection  of  mechanical  appliances  must 
ultimately  supersede  limbs ;  the  perfection  of 
chemical  devices,  digestion — that  such  organs 
as  hair,  external  nose,  teeth,  ears,  and  chin,  were 
no  longer  essential  parts  of  the  human  being, 
and  that  the  tendency  of  natural  selection 
would  lie  in  the  direction  of  their  steady  dimi- 
nution through  the  coming  ages.  The  brain 
alone  remained  a  cardinal  necessity.  Only  one 
other  part  of  the  body  had  a  strong  case  for 
survival,  and  that  was  the  hand,  "  teacher  and 
agent  of  the  brain."  While  the  rest  of  the 
body  dwindled,  the  hands  would  grow  larger. 

There  is  many  a  true  word  written  in  jest, 

208 


SEEN    FROM  THE    RUINED    HOUSE 

and  here  in  the  Martians  we  have  beyond  dis- 
pute the  actual  accomplishment  of  such  a  sup- 
pression of  the  animal  side  of  the  organism 
by  the  intelligence.  To  me  it  is  quite  credi- 
ble that  the  Martians  may  be  descended  from 
beings  not  unlike  ourselves,  by  a  gradual  de- 
velopment of  brain  and  hands  (the  latter  giv- 
ing rise  to  the  two  bunches  of  delicate  tenta- 
cles at  last)  at  the  expense  of  the  rest  of 
the  body.  Without  the  body  the  brain  would, 
of  course,  become  a  more  selfish  intelligence, 
without  any  of  the  emotional  substratum  of 
the  human  being. 

The  last  salient  point  in  which  the  systems 
of  these  creatures  differed  from  ours  was  in 
what  one  might  have  thought  a  very  trivial 
particular.  Micro  -  organisms,  which  cause  so 
much  disease  and  pain  on  earth,  have  either 
never  appeared  upon  Mars,  or  Martian  sani- 
tary science  eliminated  them  ages  ago.  A 
hundred  diseases,  all  the  fevers  and  contagions 
of  human  life,  consumption,  cancers,  tumors, 
and  such  morbidities,  never  enter  the  scheme 
of  their  life.  And  speaking  of  the  differences 
between  the  life  on  Mars  and  terrestrial  life,  I 
may  allude  here  to  the  curious  suggestions  of 
the  red  weed. 

Apparently  the  vegetable  kingdom  in  Mars, 
instead  of  having  green  for  a  dominant  color, 
o  209 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

is  of  a  vivid  blood -red  tint.  At  any  rate,  the 
seeds  which  the  Martians  (intentionally  or  ac- 
cidentally) brought  with  them  gave  rise  in  all 
cases  to  red-colored  growths.  Only  that  known 
popularly  as  the  red  weed,  however,  gained 
any  footing  in  competition  with  terrestrial 
forms.  The  red  creeper  was  quite  a  transi- 
tory growth,  and  few  people  have  seen  it  grow- 
ing. For  a  time,  however,  the  red  weed  grew 
with  astonishing  vigor  and  luxuriance.  It 
spread  up  the  sides  of  the  pit  by  the  third  or 
fourth  day  of  our  imprisonment,  and  its  cactus- 
like branches  formed  a  carmine  fringe  to  the 
edges  of  our  triangular  window.  And  after- 
wards I  found  it  broadcast  throughout  the 
country,  and  especially  wherever  there  was  a 
stream  of  water. 

The  Martians  had  what  appears  to  have  been 
an  auditory  organ,  a  single  round  drum  at  the 
back  of  the  head-body,  and  eyes  with  a  visual 
range  not  very  different  from  ours,  except  that, 
according  to  Philips,  blue  and  violet  were  as 
black  to  them.  It  is  commonly  supposed  that 
they  communicated  by  sounds  and  tentacular 
gesticulations  ;  this  is  asserted,  for  instance, 
in  the  able  but  hastily  compiled  pamphlet 
(written  evidently  by  some  one  not  an  eye- 
witness of  Martian  actions)  to  which  I  have 
already  alluded,  and  which,  so  far,  has  been 

2IO 


SEEN    FROM  THE    RUINED    HOUSE 

the  chief  source  of  information  concerning 
them.  Now,  no  surviving  human  being  saw 
so  much  of  the  Martians  in  action  as  I  did. 
I  take  no  credit  to  myself  for  an  accident,  but 
the  fact  is  so.  And  I  assert  that  I  watched 
them  closely  time  after  time,  and  that  I  have 
seen  four,  five,  and  (once)  six  of  them  slug- 
glishly  performing  the  most  elaborately  com- 
plicated operations  together  without  either 
sound  or  gesture.  Their  peculiar  hooting  in- 
variably preceded  feeding  ;  it  had  no  modu- 
lation, and  was,  I  believe,  in  no  sense  a  signal, 
but  merely  the  expiration  of  air  preparatory 
to  the  suctional  operation.  I  have  a  certain 
claim  to  at  least  an  elementary  knowledge  of 
psychology,  and  in  this  matter  I  am  convinced 
— as  firmly  as  I  am  convinced  of  anything — 
that  the  Martians  interchanged  thoughts  with- 
out any  physical  intermediation.  And  I  have 
been  convinced  of  this  in  spite  of  strong  pre- 
conceptions. Before  the  Martian  invasion,  as 
an  occasional  reader  here  or  there  may  remem- 
ber, I  had  written,  with  some  little  vehemence, 
against  the  telepathic  theory. 

The  Martians  wore  no  clothing.  Their  con- 
ceptions of  ornament  and  decorum  were  neces- 
sarily different  from  ours  ;  and  not  only  were 
they  evidently  much  less  sensible  of  changes 
of  temperature  than  we  are,  but  changes  of 

211 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

pressure  do  not  seem  to  have  affected  their 
health  at  all  seriously.  But  if  they  wore  no 
clothing,  yet  it  was  in  the  other  artificial  addi- 
tions to  their  bodily  resources,  certainly,  that 
their  great  superiority  over  man  lay.  We  men, 
with  our  bicycles  and  road-skates,  our  Lilien- 
thal  soaring-machines,  our  guns  and  sticks,  and 
so  forth,  are  just  in  the  beginning  of  the  evo- 
lution that  the  Martians  have  worked  out. 
They  have  become  practically  mere  brains, 
wearing  different  bodies  according  to  their 
needs,  just  as  men  wear  suits  of  clothes,  and 
take  a  bicycle  in  a  hurry  or  an  umbrella  in  the 
wet.  And  of  their  appliances,  perhaps  noth- 
ing is  more  wonderful  to  a  man  than  the  curi- 
ous fact  that  what  is  the  dominant  feature  of 
almost  all  human  devices  in  mechanism  is 
absent  —  the  wheel  is  absent ;  among  all  the 
things  they  brought  to  earth  there  is  no  trace 
or  suggestion  of  their  use  of  wheels.  One 
would  have  at  least  expected  it  in  locomotion. 
And  in  this  connection  it  is  curious  to  remark 
that  even  on  this  earth  Nature  has  never  hit 
upon  the  wheel,  or  has  preferred  other  expe- 
dients to  its  development.  And  not  only  did 
the  Martians  either  not  know  of  (which  is  in- 
credible), or  abstain  from,  the  wheel,  but  in 
their  apparatus  singularly  little  use  is  made 
of  the  fixed  pivot,  or  relatively  fixed  pivot, 

212 


SEEN   FROM  THE    RUINED    HOUSE 

with  circular  motions  thereabout  confined 
to  one  plane.  Almost  all  the  joints  of  the 
machinery  present  a  complicated  system  of 
sliding  parts  moving  over  small  but  beauti- 
fully curved  friction  bearings.  And  while 
upon  this  matter  of  detail,  it  is  remarkable  that 
the  long  leverages  of  their  machines  are  in  most 
cases  actuated  by  a  sort  of  sham  musculature 
of  disks  in  an  elastic  sheath  ;  these  disks  be- 
come polarized  and  drawn  closely  and  power- 
fully together  when  traversed  by  a  current  of 
electricity.  In  this  way  the  curious  parallel- 
ism to  animal  motions,  which  was  so  striking 
and  disturbing  to  the  human  beholder,  was 
attained.  Such  quasi-muscles  abounded  in  the 
crab-like  handling-machine  which,  on  my  first 
peeping  out  of  the  slit,  I  watched  unpacking 
the  cylinder.  It  seemed  infinitely  more  alive 
than  the  actual  Martians  lying  beyond  it  in 
the  sunset  light,  panting,  stirring  ineffectual 
tentacles,  and  moving  feebly  after  their  vast 
journey  across  space. 

While  I  was  still  watching  their  feeble  mo- 
tions in  the  sunlight,  and  noting  each  strange 
detail  of  their  form,  the  curate  reminded  me 
of  his  presence  by  pulling  violently  at  my  arm. 
I  turned  to  a  scowling  face,  and  silent,  eloquent 
lips.  He  wanted  the  slit,  which  permitted 
only  one  of  us  to  peep  through  ;  and  so  I  had 

213 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

to  forego  watching  them  for  a  time  while  he 
enjoyed  that  privilege. 

When  I  looked  again,  the  busy  handling- 
machine  had  already  put  together  several  of 
the  pieces  of  apparatus  it  had  taken  out  of  the 
cylinder  into  a  shape  having  an  unmistakable 
likeness  to  its  own  ;  and  down  on  the  left  a 
busy  little  digging  mechanism  had  come  into 
view,  emitting  jets  of  green  vapor  and  work- 
ing its  way  round  the  pit,  excavating  and  em- 
banking in  a  methodical  and  discriminating 
manner.  This  it  was  which  had  caused  the 
regular  beating  noise,  and  the  rhythmic  shocks 
that  had  kept  our  ruinous  refuge  quivering.  It 
piped  and  whistled  as  it  worked.  So  far  as  I 
could  see,  the  thing  was  without  a  directing 
Martian  at  all. 


Ill 

THE  DAYS   OF  IMPRISONMENT 

The  arrival  of  a  second  fighting  -  machine 
drove  us  from  our  peep-hole  into  the  scullery, 
for  we  feared  that  from  his  elevation  the 
Martian  might  see  down  upon  us  behind  our 
barrier.  At  a  later  date  we  began  to  feel  less 
in  danger  of  their  eyes,  for  to  an  eye  in  the 
dazzle  of  the  sunlight  outside  our  refuge  must 
have  seemed  a  blind  of  blackness,  but  at  first 
the  slightest  suggestion  of  approach  drove  us 
into  the  scullery  in  heart  -  throbbing  retreat. 
Yet,  terrible  as  was  the  danger  we  incurred, 
the  attraction  of  peeping  was  for  both  of  us 
irresistible.  And  I  recall  now  with  a  sort  of 
wonder  that,  in  spite  of  the  infinite  danger  in 
which  we  were  between  starvation  and  a  still 
more  terrible  death,  we  could  yet  struggle 
bitterly  for  that  horrible  privilege  of  sight. 
We  would  race  across  the  kitchen  in  a  gro- 
tesque way  between  eagerness  and  the  dread 
of  making  a  noise,  and  strike  each  other,  and 
thrust  and  kick,  within  a  few  inches  of  exposure. 

215 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

The  fact  is  that  we  had  absolutely  incom- 
patible dispositions  and  habits  of  thought  and 
action,  and  our  danger  and  insolation  only  ac- 
centuated the  incompatibility.  At  Halliford  I 
had  already  come  to  hate  the  curate's  trick  of 
helpless  exclamation,  his  stupid  rigidity  of  mind. 
His  endless  muttering  monologue  vitiated  every 
effort  I  made  to  think  out  a  line  of  action,  and 
drove  me  at  times,  thus  pent  up  and  intensi- 
fied, almost  to  the  verge  of  craziness.  He  was 
as  lacking  in  restraint  as  a  silly  woman.  He 
would  weep  for  hours  together,  and  I  verily 
believe  that  to  the  very  end  this  spoiled  child 
of  life  thought  his  weak  tears  in  some  way  effi- 
cacious. A.nd  I  would  sit  in  the  darkness  un- 
able to  keep  my  mind  off  him  by  reason  of  his 
importunities.  He  ate  more  than  I  did,  and  it 
was  in  vain  I  pointed  out  that  our  only  chance 
of  life  was  to  stop  in  the  house  until  the  Mar- 
tians had  done  with  their  pit,  that  in  that  long 
patience  a  time  might  presently  come  when  we 
should  need  food.  He  ate  and  drank  impul- 
sively in  heavy  meals  at  long  intervals.  He 
slept  little. 

As  the  days  wore  on,  his  utter  carelessness 
of  any  consideration  so  intensified  our  distress 
and  danger  that  I  had,  much  as  I  loathed  doing 
it,  to  resort  to  threats,  and  at  last  to  blows. 
That  brought  him  to  reason  for  a  time.    But 

216 


THE    DAYS    OF    IMPRISONMENT 

he  was  one  of  those  weak  creatures  full  of 
shifty  cunning — who  face  neither  God  nor  man, 
who  face  not  even  themselves,  void  of  pride, 
timorous,  anaemic,  hateful  souls. 

It  is  disagreeable  for  me  to  recall  and  write 
these  things,  but  I  set  them  down  that  my 
story  may  lack  nothing.  Those  who  have 
escaped  the  dark  and  terrible  aspects  of  life 
will  find  my  brutality,  my  flash  of  rage  in  our 
final  tragedj^,  easy  enough  to  blame  ;  for  they 
know  what  is  wrong  as  well  as  any,  but  not 
what  is  possible  to  tortured  men.  But  those 
who  have  been  under  the  shadow,  who  have 
gone  down  at  last  to  elemental  things,  will 
have  a  wider  charity. 

And  while  within  we  fought  out  our  dark, 
dim  contest  of  whispers,  snatched  food  and 
drink,  and  gripping  hands  and  blows,  without, 
in  the  pitiless  sunlight  of  that  terrible  June, 
was  the  strange  wonder,  the  unfamiliar  routine 
of  the  Martians  in  the  pit.  Let  me  return  to 
those  first  new  experiences  of  mine.  After  a 
long  time  I  ventured  back  to  the  peep-hole,  to 
find  that  the  new-comers  had  been  reinforced 
by  the  occupants  of  no  fewer  than  three  of  the 
fighting -machines.  These  last  had  brought 
with  them  certain  fresh  appliances  that  stood 
in  an  orderly  manner  about  the  cylinder.  The 
second  handling-machine  was  now  completed, 

217 


THE    WAR  OF    THE    WORLDS 

and  was  busied  in  serving  one  of  the  novel 
contrivances  the  big  machine  had  brought. 
This  was  a  body  resembling  a  milk-can  in  its 
general  form,  above  which  oscillated  a  pear- 
shaped  receptacle,  and  from  which  a  stream 
of  white  powder  flowed  into  a  circular  basin 
below. 

The  oscillatory  motion  was  imparted  to  this 
by  one  tentacle  of  the  handling  -  machine. 
With  two  spatulate  hands  the  handling -ma- 
chine was  digging  out  and  flinging  masses  of 
clay  into  the  pear-shaped  receptacle  above, 
while  with  another  arm  it  periodically  opened 
a  door  and  removed  rusty  and  blackened  clink- 
ers from  the  middle  part  of  the  machine.  An- 
other steely  tentacle  directed  the  powder  from 
the  basin  along  a  ribbed  channel  towards  some 
receiver  that  was  hidden  from  me  by  the  mound 
of  bluish  dust.  From  this  unseen  receiver  a 
little  thread  of  green  smoke  rose  vertically  into 
the  quiet  air.  As  I  looked,  the  handling- ma- 
chine, with  a  faint  and  musical  clinking,  ex- 
tended, telescopic  fashion,  a  tentacle  that  had 
been  a  moment  before  a  mere  blunt  projection, 
until  its  end  was  hidden  behind  the  mound  of 
clay.  In  another  second  it  had  lifted  a  bar  of 
white  aluminium  into  sight,  untarnished  as  yet 
and  shining  dazzlingly,  and  deposited  it  in  a 
growing  stack  of  bars  that  stood  at  the  side  of 

2l8 


THE    DAYS    OF    IMPRISONMENT 

the  pit.  Between  sunset  and  starlight  this 
dexterous  machine  must  have  made  more  than 
a  hundred  such  bars  out  of  the  crude  clay,  and 
the  mound  of  bluish  dust  rose  steadily  until  it 
topped  the  side  of  the  pit. 

The  contrast  between  the  swift  and  complex 
movements  of  these  contrivances  and  the  inert, 
panting  clumsiness  of  their  masters  was  acute, 
and  for  days  I  had  to  tell  myself  repeatedly 
that  these  latter  were  indeed  the  living  of  the 
two  things. 

The  curate  had  possession  of  the  slit  when 
the  first  men  were  brought  to  the  pit.  I 
was  sitting  below,  huddled  up,  listening  with 
all  my  ears.  He  made  a  sudden  movement 
backward,  and  I,  fearful  that  we  were  observed, 
crouched  in  a  spasm  of  terror.  He  came  slid- 
ing down  the  rubbish  and  crept  beside  me  in 
the  darkness,  inarticulate,  gesticulating,  and 
for  a  moment  I  shared  his  terror.  His  gesture 
suggested  a  resignation  of  the  slit,  and  after  a 
little  while  my  curiosity  gave  me  courage,  and 
I  rose  up,  stepped  across  him,  and  clambered 
up  to  it.  At  first  I  could  see  no  reason  for  his 
terror.  The  twilight  had  now  come,  the  stars 
were  little  and  faint,  but  the  pit  was  illumi- 
nated by  the  flickering  green  fire  that  came 
from  the  aluminium  making.  The  whole  pict- 
ure was  a  flickering  scheme  of  green  gleams 

219 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

and  shifting  rusty  black  shadows,  strangely 
trying  to  the  eyes.  Over  and  through  it  all 
went  the  bats,  heeding  it  not  at  all.  The 
sprawling  Martians  were  no  longer  to  be  seen, 
the  mound  of  blue-green  powder  had  risen  to 
cover  them  from  sight,  and  a  fighting-machine, 
with  its  legs  contracted,  crumpled,  and  abbre- 
viated, stood  across  the  corner  of  the  pit.  And 
then,  amid  the  clangor  of  the  machinery,  came 
a  drifting  suspicion  of  human  voices,  that  I  en- 
tertained at  first  only  to  dismiss. 

I  crouched,  watching  this  fighting-machine 
closely,  satisfying  myself  now  for  the  first  time 
that  the  hood  did  indeed  contain  a  Martian. 
As  the  green  flames  lifted  I  could  see  the  oily 
gleam  of  his  integument  and  the  brightness  of 
his  eyes.  And  suddenly  I  heard  a  yell,  and 
saw  a  long  tentacle  reaching  over  the  shoulder 
of  the  machine  to  the  little  cage  that  hunched 
upon  its  back.  Then  something  —  something 
struggling  violently — was  lifted  high  against 
the  sky,  a  black,  vague  enigma  against  the 
starlight;  and  as  this  black  object  came  down 
again,  I  saw  by  the  green  brightness  that  it 
was  a  man.  For  an  instant  he  was  clearly  vis- 
ible. He  was  a  stout,  ruddy,  middle-aged  man, 
well  dressed ;  three  days  before  he  must  have 
been  walking  the  world,  a  man  of  considerable 
consequence.     I  could  see  his  staring  eyes  and 

220 


THE    DAYS    OF    IMPRISONMENT 

gleams  of  light  on  his  studs  and  watch-chain. 
He  vanished  behind  the  mound,  and  for  a  mo- 
ment there  was  silence.  And  then  began  a 
shrieking  and  a  sustained  and  cheerful  hooting 
from  the  Martians. 

I  slid  down  the  rubbish,  struggled  to  my 
feet,  clapped  my  hands  over  my  ears,  and 
bolted  into  the  scullery.  The  curate,  who  had 
been  crouching  silently  with  his  arms  over  his 
head,  looked  up  as  I  passed,  cried  out  quite 
loudly  at  my  desertion  of  him,  and  came  run- 
ning after  me. 

That  night,  as  we  lurked  in  the  scullery, 
balanced  between  our  horror  and  the  terrible 
fascination  this  peeping  had,  although  I  felt  an 
urgent  need  of  action,  I  tried  in  vain  to  con- 
ceive some  plan  of  escape;  but  afterwards, 
during  the  second  day,  I  was  able  to  consider 
our  position  with  great  clearness.  The  curate, 
I  found,  was  quite  incapable  of  discussion  ; 
strange  terrors  had  already  made  him  a  creat- 
ure of  violent  impulses,  had  robbed  him  of 
reason  or  forethought.  Practically  he  had 
already  sunk  to  the  level  of  an  animal.  But, 
as  the  saying  goes,  I  gripped  myself  with  both 
hands.  It  grew  upon  my  mind,  once  I  could 
face  the  facts,  that,  terrible  as  our  position 
was,  there  was  as  yet  no  justification  for  abso- 
lute despair.    Our  chief  chance  lay  in  the  posst 

221 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

bility  of  the  Martians  making  the  pit  nothing 
more  than  a  temporary  encampment.  Or  even 
if  they  kept  it  permanently,  they  might  not 
consider  it  necessary  to  guard  it,  and  a  chance 
of  escape  might  be  afforded  us.  I  also  weighed 
very  carefully  the  possibility  of  our  digging  a 
way  out  in  a  direction  away  from  the  pit,  but 
the  chances  of  our  emerging  within  sight  of 
some  sentinel  fighting-machine  seemed  at  first 
too  great.  And  I  should  have  had  to  do  all  the 
digging  myself.  The  curate  would  certainly 
have  failed  me. 

It  was  on  the  third  day,  if  my  memory 
serves  me  right,  that  I  saw  the  lad  killed.  It 
was  the  only  occasion  on  which  I  actually 
saw  the  Martians  feed.  After  that  experience 
I  avoided  the  hole  in  the  wall  for  the  better 
part  of  a  day.  I  went  into  the  scullery,  re- 
moved the  door,  and  spent  some  hours  digging 
with  my  hatchet  as  silently  as  possible  ;  but 
when  I  had  made  a  hole  about  a  couple  of 
feet  deep  the  loose  earth  collapsed  noisily,  and 
I  did  not  dare  continue.  I  lost  heart,  and  lay 
down  on  the  scullery  floor  for  a  long  time,  hav- 
ing no  spirit  even  to  move.  And  after  that  I 
abandoned  altogether  the  idea  of  escaping  by 
excavation. 

It  says  much  for  the  impression  the  Martians 
had  made  upon  me  that  at  first  I  entertained 

222 


THE    DAYS    OF    IMPRISONMENT 

little  or  no  hope  of  our  escape  being  brought 
about  by  their  overthrow  through  any  human 
effort.  But  on  the  fourth  or  fifth  night  I  heard 
a  sound  like  heavy  guns. 

It  was  very  late  in  the  night,  and  the  moon 
was  shining  brightly.  The  Martians  had  taken 
away  the  excavating  -  machine,  and,  save  for  a 
fighting -machine  that  stood  on  the  remoter 
bank  of  the  pit,  and  a  handling-machine  that 
was  busied  out  of  my  sight  in  a  corner  of  the 
pit  immediately  beneath  my  peep-hole,  the 
place  was  deserted  by  them.  Except  for  the 
pale  glow  from  the  handling-machine,  and  the 
bars  and  patches  of  white  moonlight,  the  pit 
was  in  darkness,  and,  except  for  the  clinking  of 
the  handling-machine,  quite  still.  That  night 
was  a  beautiful  serenity  ;  save  for  one  planet, 
the  moon  seemed  to  have  the  sky  to  herself.  I 
heard  a  dog  howling,  and  that  familiar  sound 
it  was  that  made  me  listen.  Then  I  heard  quite 
distinctly  a  booming  exactly  like  the  sound  of 
great  guns.  Six  distinct  reports  I  counted, 
and  after  a  long  interval  six  again.  And  that 
was  all. 


IV 

THE  DEATH  OF  THE  CURATE 

It  was  on  the  sixth  day  of  our  imprisonment 
that  I  peeped  for  the  last  time,  and  presently 
found  myself  alone.  Instead  of  keeping  close 
to  me  and  trying  to  oust  me  from  the  slit,  the 
curate  had  gone  back  into  the  scullery.  I  was 
struck  by  a  sudden  thought.  I  went  back 
quickly  and  quietly  into  the  scullery.  In  the 
darkness  I  heard  the  curate  drinking.  I 
snatched  in  the  darkness,  and  my  fingers  caught 
a  bottle  of  burgundy. 

For  a  few  minutes  there  was  a  tussle.  The 
bottle  struck  the  floor  and  broke,  and  I  desisted 
and  rose.  We  stood  panting,  threatening  each 
other.  In  the  end  I  planted  myself  between 
him  and  the  food,  and  told  him  of  my  deter- 
mination to  begin  a  discipline.  I  divided  the 
food  in  the  pantry  into  rations  to  last  us  ten 
days.  I  would  not  let  him  eat  any  more  that 
day.  In  the  afternoon  he  made  a  feeble  effort 
to  get  at  the  food.  I  had  been  dozing,  but  in 
an  instant  I  was  awake.     All  day  and  all  night 

224 


THE    DEATH    OF    THE    CURATE 

we  sat  face  to  face,''!  weary  but  resolute,  and 
he  weeping  and  complaining  of  his  immediate 
hunger.  It  was,  I  know,  a  night  and  a  day,  but 
to  me  it  seemed — it  seems  now — an  intermi- 
nable length  of  time. 

And  so  our  widened  incompatibility  ended 
at  last  in  open  conflict.  For  two  vast  days  we 
struggled  in  undertones  and  wrestling  contests. 
There  were  times  when  I  beat  and  kicked  him 
madly,  times  when  I  cajoled  and  persuaded 
him,  and  once  I  tried  to  bribe  him  with  the  last 
bottle  of  burgundy,  for  there  was  a  rain-water 
pump  from  which  I  could  get  water.  But 
neither  force  nor  kindness  availed ;  he  was 
indeed  beyond  reason.  He  would  neither  de- 
sist from  his  attacks  on  the  food  nor  from  his 
noisy  babbling  to  himself.  The  rudimentary 
precautions  to  keep  our  imprisonment  endur- 
able he  would  not  observe.  Slowly  I  began  to 
realize  the  complete  overthrow  of  his  intelli- 
gence, to  perceive  that  my  sole  companion  in 
this  close  and  sickly  darkness  was  a  man  insane. 

From  certain  vague  memories  I  am  inclined 
to  think  my  own  mind  wandered  at  times.  I 
had  strange  and  hideous  dreams  whenever  I 
slept.  It  sounds  strange,  but  I  am  inclined  to 
think  that  the  weakness  and  insanity  of  the 
curate  warned  me,  braced  me,  and  kept  me  a 
sane  man. 

p  225 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

On  the  eighth  day  he  began  to  talk  aloud 
instead  of  whispering,  and  nothing  I  could  do 
would  moderate  his  speech. 

"  It  is  just,  O  God  !"  he  would  say,  over  and 
over  again.  "  It  is  just.  On  me  and  mine  be 
the  punishment  laid.  We  have  sinned,  we 
have  fallen  short.  There  was  poverty,  sorrow  ; 
the  poor  were  trodden  in  the  dust,  and  I  held 
my  peace.  I  preached  acceptable  folly  —  my 
God,  what  folly  ! — when  I  should  have  stood 
up,  though  I  died  for  it,  and  called  upon  them 
to  repent — repent !  .  .  .  Oppressors  of  the  poor 
and  needy!  .  .  .  The  wine-press  of  God !" 

Then  he  would  suddenly  revert  to  the  matter 
of  the  food  I  withheld  from  him,  praying,  beg- 
ging, weeping,  at  last  threatening.  He  began 
to  raise  his  voice — I  prayed  him  not  to.  He 
perceived  a  hold  on  me  —  he  threatened  he 
would  shout  and  bring  the  Martians  upon  us. 
For  a  time  that  scared  me  ;  but  any  concession 
would  have  shortened  our  chance  of  escape 
beyond  estimating.  I  defied  him,  although  I 
felt  no  assurance  that  he  might  not  do  this 
thing.  But  that  day,  at  any  rate,  he  did  not. 
He  talked,  with  his  voice  rising  slowly,  through 
the  greater  part  of  the  eighth  and  ninth  days — 
threats,  entreaties,  mingled  with  a  torrent  of 
half-sane  and  always  frothy  repentance  for  his 
vacant  sham  of  God's  service,  such  as  made  me 

226 


THE    DEATH    OF    THE    CURATE 

pity  him.  Then  he  slept  awhile,  and  began 
again  with  renewed  strength,  so  loudly  that  I 
must  needs  make  him  desist. 

"Be  still  !"  I  implored. 

He  rose  to  his  knees,  for  he  had  been  sitting 
in  the  darkness  near  the  copper. 

"  I  have  been  still  too  long,'*  he  said,  in  a  tone 
that  must  have  reached  the  pit,  "  and  now  I 
must  bear  my  witness.  Woe  unto  this  unfaith- 
ful city  !  Woe  !  woe  !  Woe  !  woe  !  woe  !  to 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  by  reason  of  the 
other  voices  of  the  trumpet — " 

"Shut  up  !"  I  said,  rising  to  my  feet,  and  in 
a  terror  lest  the  Martians  should  hear  us. 
"For  God's  sake—" 

"  Nay  !"  shouted  the  curate,  at  the  top  of 
his  voice,  standing  likewise  and  extending  his 
arms.  "  Speak  !  The  word  of  the  Lord  is 
upon  me  !" 

In  three  strides  he  was  at  the  door  leading 
into  the  kitchen. 

"  I  must  bear  my  witness  !  I  go  !  It  has 
already  been  too  long  delayed." 

I  put  out  my  hand  and  felt  the  meat-chopper 
hanging  to  the  wall.  In  a  flash  I  was  after 
him.  I  was  fierce  with  fear.  Before  he  was 
half-way  across  the  kitchen  I  had  overtaken 
him.  With  one  last  touch  of  humanity  I  turned 
the  blade  back  and  struck  him  with  the  butt. 

227 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

He  went  headlong  forward  and  lay  stretched 
on  the  ground.  I  stumbled  over  him  and 
stood  panting.     He  lay  still. 

Suddenly  I  heard  a  noise  without,  the  run 
and  smash  of  slipping  plaster,  and  the  trian- 
gular aperture  in  the  wall  was  darkened.  I 
looked  up  and  saw  the  lower  surface  of  a  hand- 
ling-machine coming  slowly  across  the  hole. 
One  of  its  gripping  limbs  curled  amid  the  de- 
bris ;  another  limb  appeared,  feeling  its  way 
over  the  fallen  beams.  I  stood  petrified,  star- 
ing. Then  I  saw  through  a  sort  of  glass  plate 
near  the  edge  of  the  body  the  face,  as  we  may 
call  it,  and  the  large  dark  eyes  of  a  Martian, 
peering,  and  then  a  long  metallic  snake  of 
tentacle  came  feeling  slowly  through  the 
hole. 

I  turned  by  an  effort,  stumbled  over  the 
curate,  and  stopped  at  the  scullery  door.  The 
tentacle  was  now  some  way,  two  yards  or 
more,  in  the  room,  and  twisting  and  turning, 
with  queer  sudden  movements,  this  way  and 
that.  For  a  while  I  stood  fascinated  by  that 
slow,  fitful  advance.  Then,  with  a  faint,  hoarse 
cry,  I  forced  myself  across  the  scullery.  I 
trembled  violently  ;  I  could  scarcely  stand  up- 
right. I  opened  the  door  of  the  coal-cellar, 
and  stood  there  in  the  darkness  staring  at  the 
faintly  lit  door-way  into  the  kitchen,  and  lis- 

228 


THE    DEATH    OF    THE    CURATE 

tening.  Had  the  Martian  seen  me?  What 
was  it  doing  now  ? 

Something  was  moving  to  and  fro  there, 
very  quietly  ;  every  now  and  then  it  tapped 
against  the  wall,  or  started  on  its  movements 
with  a  faint  metallic  ringing,  like  the  move- 
ment of  keys  on  a  split-ring.  Then  a  heavy 
body  —  I  knew  too  well  what  —  was  dragged 
across  the  floor  of  the  kitchen  towards  the 
opening.  Irresistibly  attracted,  I  crept  to  the 
door  and  peeped  into  the  kitchen.  In  the  tri- 
angle of  bright  outer  sunlight  I  saw  the  Mar- 
tian, in  its  Briareus  of  a  handling  -  machine, 
scrutinizing  the  curate's  head.  I  thought  at 
once  that  it  would  infer  my  presence  from  the 
mark  of  the  blow  I  had  given  him. 

I  crept  back  to  the  coal-cellar,  shut  the  door, 
and  began  to  cover  myself  up  as  much  as  I 
could,  and  as  noiselessly  as  possible,  in  the 
darkness,  among  the  firewood  and  coal  therein. 
Every  now  and  then  I  paused,  rigid,  to  hear  if 
the  Martian  had  thrust  its  tentacle  through 
the  opening  again. 

Then  the  faint  metallic  jingle  returned.  I 
traced  it  slowly  feeling  over  the  kitchen.  Pres- 
ently I  heard  it  nearer — in  the  scullery,  as  I 
judged.  I  thought  that  its  length  might  be 
insufficient  to  reach  me.  I  prayed  copiously. 
It  passed,  scraping  faintly  across  the  cellar 

229 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

door.  An  age  of  almost  intolerable  suspense 
intervened  ;  then  I  heard  it  fumbling  at  the 
latch.  It  had  found  the  door  !  The  Martian 
understood  doors  ! 

It  worried  at  the  catch  for  a  minute,  perhaps, 
and  then  the  door  opened. 

In  the  darkness  I  could  just  see  the  thing — 
like  an  elephant's  trunk  more  than  anything 
else — waving  towards  me  and  touching  and 
examining  the  wall,  coals,  wood,  and  ceiling. 
It  was  like  a  black  worm  swaying  its  blind 
head  to  and  fro. 

Once,  even,  it  touched  the  heel  of  my  boot. 
I  was  on  the  verge  of  screaming  ;  I  bit  my 
hand.  For  a  time  it  was  silent.  I  could  have 
fancied  it  had  been  withdrawn.  Presently, 
with  an  abrupt  click,  it  gripped  something — 
I  thought  it  had  me  ! — and  seemed  to  go  out 
of  the  cellar  again.  For  a  minute  I  was  not 
sure.  Apparently,  it  had  taken  a  lump  of  coal 
to  examine. 

I  seized  the  opportunity  of  slightly  shifting 
my  position,  which  had  become  cramped,  and 
then  listened.  I  whispered  passionate  prayers 
for  safety. 

Then  I  heard  the  slow,  deliberate  sound 
creeping  towards  me  again.  Slowly,  slowly  it 
drew  near,  scratching  against  the  walls  and 
tapping  the  furniture. 

230 


THE    DEATH    OF   THE    CURATE 

While  I  was  still  doubtful,  it  rapped  smartly 
against  the  cellar  door  and  closed  it.  I  heard 
it  go  into  the  pantry,  and  the  biscuit-tins  rat- 
tled and  a  bottle  smashed,  and  then  came  a 
heavy  bump  against  the  cellar  door.  Then 
silence,  that  passed  into  an  infinity  of  suspense. 

Had  it  gone  ? 

At  last  I  decided  that  it  had. 

It  came  into  the  scullery  no  more  ;  but  I  lay 
all  the  tenth  day,  in  the  close  darkness,  buried 
among  coals  and  firewood,  not  daring  even  to 
crawl  out  for  the  drink  for  which  I  craved.  It 
was  the  eleventh  day  before  I  ventured  so  far 
from  my  security. 


THE   STILLNESS 

My  first  act  before  I  went  into  the  pantry- 
was  to  fasten  the  door  between  the  kitchen  and 
the  scullery.  But  the  pantry  was  empty;  every 
scrap  of  food  had  gone.  Apparently,  the  Mar- 
tian had  taken  it  all  on  the  previous  day.  At 
that  discovery  I  despaired  for  the  first  time. 
I  took  no  food,  or  no  drink  either,  on  the 
eleventh  or  the  twelfth  day. 

At  first  my  mouth  and  throat  were  parched, 
and  my  strength  ebbed  sensibly.  I  sat  about 
in  the  darkness  of  the  scullery,  in  a  state  of 
despondent  wretchedness.  My  mind  ran  on 
eating.  I  thought  I  had  become  deaf,  for  the 
noises  of  movement  I  had  been  accustomed  to 
hear  from  the  pit  ceased  absolutely.  I  did  not 
feel  strong  enough  to  crawl  noiselessly  to  the 
peep-hole,  or  I  would  have  gone  there. 

On  the  twelfth  day  my  throat  was  so  painful 
that,  taking  the  chance  of  alarming  the  Mar- 
tians, I  attacked  the  creaking  rain-water  pump 
that  stood  by  the  sink,  and  got  a  couple  of 

232 


THE    STILLNESS 

glassfuls  of  blackened  and  tainted  rain-water. 
I  was  greatly  refreshed  by  this,  and  embol- 
dened by  the  fact  that  no  inquiring  tentacle 
followed  the  noise  of  my  pumping. 

During  these  days,  in  a  rambling,  inconclu- 
sive way,  I  thought  much  of  the  curate  and  of 
the  manner  of  his  death. 

On  the  thirteenth  day  I  drank  some  more 
water,  and  dozed  and  thought  disjointedly  of 
eating  and  of  vague  impossible  plans  of  escape. 
Whenever  I  dozed  I  dreamt  of  horrible  phan- 
tasms, of  the  death  of  the  curate,  or  of  sump- 
tuous dinners  ;  but,  asleep  or  awake,  I  felt  a 
keen  pain  that  urged  me  to  drink  again  and 
again.  The  light  that  came  into  the  scullery 
was  no  longer  gray,  but  red.  To  my  dis- 
ordered imagination  it  seemed  the  color  of 
blood. 

On  the  fourteenth  day  I  went  into  the  kitch- 
en, and  I  was  surprised  to  find  that  the  fronds 
of  the  red  weed  had  grown  right  across  the 
hole  in  the  wall,  turning  the  half-light  of  the 
place  into  a  crimson-colored  obscurity. 

It  was  early  on  the  fifteenth  day  that  I 
heard  a  curious,  familiar  sequence  of  sounds  in 
the  kitchen,  and,  listening,  identified  it  as  the 
snuffing  and  scratching  of  a  dog.  Going  into 
the  kitchen,  I  saw  a  dog's  nose  peering  in 
through   a  break   among   the   ruddy   fronds. 

233 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

This  greatly  surprised  me.  At  the  scent  of 
me  he  barked  shortly. 

I  thought  if  I  could  induce  him  to  come  into 
the  place  quietly  I  should  be  able,  perhaps, 
to  kill  and  eat  him ;  and,  in  any  case,  it  would 
be  advisable  to  kill  him,  lest  his  actions  at- 
tracted the  attention  of  the  Martians. 

I  crept  forward,  saying  *'  Good  dog !"  very 
softly  ;  but  he  suddenly  withdrew  his  head  and 
disappeared. 

I  listened — I  was  not  deaf — but  certainly  the 
pit  was  still.  I  heard  a  sound  like  the  flutter 
of  a  bird^s  wings,  and  a  hoarse  croaking,  but 
that  was  all. 

For  a  long  while  I  lay  close  to  the  peep-hole, 
but  not  daring  to  move  aside  the  red  plants 
that  obscured  it.  Once  or  twice  I  heard  a  faint 
pitter  -  patter  like  the  feet  of  the  dog  going 
hither  and  thither  on  the  sand  far  below  me, 
and  there  were  more  birdlike  sounds,  but  that 
was  all.  At  length,  encouraged  by  the  silence, 
I  looked  out. 

Except  in  the  corner,  where  a  multitude  of 
crows  hopped  and  fought  over  the  skeletons  of 
the  dead  the  Martians  had  consumed,  there 
was  not  a  living  thing  in  the  pit. 

I  stared  about  me,  scarcely  believing  my 
eyes.  All  the  machinery  had  gone.  Save  for 
the  big  mound  of  grayish-blue  powder  in  one 

234 


THE    STILLNESS 

corner,  certain  bars  of  aluminium  in  another, 
the  black  birds,  and  the  skeletons  of  the  killed, 
the  place  was  merely  an  empty  circular  pit  in 
the  sand. 

Slowly  I  thrust  myself  out  through  the  red 
weed,  and  stood  upon  the  mound  of  rubble. 
I  could  see  in  any  direction  save  behind  me,  to 
the  north,  and  neither  Martians  nor  sign  of 
Martians  were  to  be  seen.  The  pit  dropped 
sheerly  from  my  feet,  but  a  little  way  along 
the  rubbish  afforded  a  practicable  slope  to  the 
summit  of  the  ruins.  My  chance  of  escape  had 
come.     I  began  to  tremble. 

I  hesitated  for  some  time,  and  then,  in  a  gust 
of  desperate  resolution,  and  with  a  heart  that 
throbbed  violently,  I  scrambled  to  the  top  of 
the  mound  in  which  I  had  been  buried  so 
long. 

I  looked  about  again.  To  the  northward, 
too,  no  Martian  was  visible. 

When  I  had  last  seen  this  part  of  Sheen  in 
the  daylight  it  had  been  a  straggling  street  of 
comfortable  white  and  red  houses,  interspersed 
with  abundant  shady  trees.  Now  I  stood  on  a 
mound  of  smashed  brickwork,  clay,  and  gravel, 
over  which  spread  a  multitude  of  red  cactus- 
shaped  plants,  knee-high,  without  a  solitary 
terrestrial  growth  to  dispute  their  footing. 
The  trees  near  me  were  dead  and  brown,  but 

235 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

further  a  network  of  red  threads  scaled  the 
still  living  stems. 

The  neighboring  houses  had  all  been  wreck- 
ed, but  none  had  been  burned ;  their  walls 
stood,  sometimes  to  the  second  story,  with 
smashed  windows  and  shattered  doors.  The 
red  weed  grew  tumultuously  in  their  roofless 
rooms.  Below  me  was  the  great  pit,  with  the 
crows  struggling  for  its  refuse.  A  number  of 
other  birds  hopped  about  among  the  ruins. 
Far  away  I  saw  a  gaunt  cat  slink  crouchingly 
along  a  wall,  but  traces  of  men  there  were 
none. 

The  day  seemed,  by  contrast  with  my  recent 
confinement,  dazzlingly  bright,  the  sky  a  glow- 
ing blue.  A  gentle  breeze  kept  the  red  weed 
that  covered  every  scrap  of  unoccupied  ground 
gently  swaying.  And  oh  !  the  sweetness  of 
the  air ! 


VI 

THE  WORK   OF  FIFTEEN  DAYS 

For  some  time  I  stood  tottering  on  the 
mound  regardless  of  my  safety.  Within  that 
noisome  den  from  which  I  had  emerged  I  had 
thought  with  a  narrow  intensity  only  of  our 
immediate  security.  I  had  not  realized  what 
had  been  happening  to  the  world,  had  not 
anticipated  this  startling  vision  of  unfamiliar 
things.  I  had  expected  to  see  Sheen  in  ruins 
— I  found  about  me  the  landscape,  weird  and 
lurid,  of  another  planet. 

For  that  moment  I  touched  an  emotion 
beyond  the  common  range  of  men,  yet  one 
that  the  poor  brutes  we  dominate  know  only 
too  well.  I  felt  as  a  rabbit  might  feel  return- 
ing to  his  burrow  and  suddenly  confronted  by 
the  work  of  a  dozen  busy  navvies  digging  the 
foundations  of  a  house.  I  felt  the  first  inkling 
of  a  thing  that  presently  grew  quite  clear  in 
my  mind,  that  oppressed  me  for  many  days,  a 
sense  of  dethronement,  a  persuasion  that  I  was 
no  longer  a  master,  but  an  animal  among  the 

237 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

animals,  under  the  Martian  heel.  With  us 
it  would  be  as  with  them,  to  lurk  and  watch, 
to  run  and  hide ;  the  fear  and  empire  of  man 
had  passed  away. 

But  so  soon  as  this  strangeness  had  been 
realized  it  passed,  and  my  dominant  motive 
became  the  hunger  of  my  long  and  dismal  fast. 
In  the  direction  away  from  the  pit  I  saw,  be- 
yond a  red  -  covered  wall,  a  patch  of  garden 
ground  unburied.  This  gave  me  a  hint,  and  I 
went  knee-deep,  and  sometimes  neck-deep,  in 
the  red  weed.  The  density  of  the  weed  gave 
me  a  reassuring  sense  of  hiding.  The  wall 
was  some  six  feet  high,  and  when  I  attempted 
to  clamber  it  I  found  I  could  not  lift  my  feet  to 
the  crest.  So  I  went  along  by  the  side  of  it, 
and  came  to  a  corner  and  a  rockwork  that 
enabled  me  to  get  to  the  top  and  tumble  into 
the  garden  I  coveted.  Here  I  found  some 
young  onions,  a  couple  of  gladiolus  bulbs,  and 
a  quantity  of  immature  carrots,  all  of  which  I 
secured,  and,  scrambling  over  a  ruined  wall, 
went  on  my  way  through  scarlet  and  crimson 
trees  towards  Kew — it  was  like  walking  through 
an  avenue  of  gigantic  blood-drops — possessed 
with  two  ideas  :  to  get  more  food,  and  to  limp, 
as  soon  and  as  far  as  my  strength  permitted, 
out  of  this  accursed  unearthly  region  of  the 
pit. 

238 


THE    WORK    OF    FIFTEEN    DAYS 

Some  way  farther,  in  a  grassy  place,  was  a 
group  of  mushrooms,  which  I  also  devoured, 
and  then  I  came  upon  a  brown  sheet  of  flow- 
ing shallow  water,  where  meadows  used  to  be. 
These  fragments  of  nourishment  served  only 
to  whet  my  hunger.  At  first  I  was  surprised 
at  this  flood  in  a  hot,  dry  summer,  but  after- 
wards I  discovered  that  this  was  caused  by  the 
tropical  exuberance  of  the  red  weed.  Directly 
this  extraordinary  growth  encountered  water 
it  straightway  became  gigantic  and  of  unparal- 
leled fecundity.  Its  seeds  were  simply  poured 
down  into  the  water  of  the  Wey  and  Thames, 
and  its  swiftly  growing  and  Titanic  water- 
fronds  speedily  choked  both  these  rivers. 

At  Putney,  as  I  afterwards  saw,  the  bridge 
was  almost  lost  in  a  tangle  of  this  weed,  and 
at  Richmond,  too,  the  Thames  water  poured 
in  a  broad  and  shallow  stream  across  the  mead- 
ows of  Hampton  and  Twickenham,  As  the 
waters  spread  the  weed  followed  them,  until 
the  ruined  villas  of  the  Thames  valley  were 
for  a  time  lost  in  this  red  swamp,  whose  margin 
I  explored,  and  much  of  the  desolation  the 
Martians  had  caused  was  concealed. 

In  the  end  the  red  weed  succumbed  almost 
as  quickly  as  it  had  spread.  A  cankering  dis- 
ease, due,  it  is  believed,  to  the  action  of  certain 
bacteria,  presently  seized  upon  it.      Now,  by 

239 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

the  action  of  natural  selection,  all  terrestrial 
plants  have  acquired  a  resisting  power  against 
bacterial  diseases — they  never  succumb  with- 
out a  severe  struggle,  but  the  red  weed  rotted 
like  a  thing  already  dead.  The  fronds  became 
bleached,  and  then  shrivelled  and  brittle.  They 
broke  off  at  the  least  touch,  and  the  waters 
that  had  stimulated  their  early  growth  carried 
their  last  vestiges  out  to  sea. 

My  first  act  on  coming  to  this  water  was,  of 
course,  to  slake  my  thirst.  I  drank  a  great 
deal  of  it,  and,  moved  by  an  impulse,  gnawed 
some  fronds  of  red  weed,  but  they  were  watery, 
and  had  a  sickly,  metallic  taste.  I  found  the 
water  was  sufficiently  shallow  for  me  to  wade 
securely,  although  the  red  weed  impeded  my 
feet  a  little ;  but  the  flood  evidently  got  deep- 
er towards  the  river,  and  I  turned  back  tow- 
ards Mortlake.  I  managed  to  make  out  the 
road  by  means  of  occasional  ruins  of  its  villas 
and  fences  and  lamps,  and  so  presently  I  got 
out  of  this  spate  and  made  my  way  to  the  hill 
going  up  towards  Roehampton  and  came  out 
on  Putney  Common. 

Here  the  scenery  changed  from  the  strange 
and  unfamiliar  to  the  wreckage  of  the  familiar : 
patches  of  ground  exhibited  the  devastation  of 
a  cyclone,  and  in  a  few  score  yards  I  would 
come  upon  perfectly  undisturbed  spaces,  houses 

240 


THE    WORK    OF    FIFTEEN    DAYS 

i?7ith  their  blinds  trimly  drawn  and  doors 
closed,  as  if  they  had  been  left  for  a  day  by  the 
owners,  or  as  if  their  inhabitants  slept  within. 
The  red  weed  was  less  abundant ;  the  tall  trees 
along  the  lane  were  free  from  the  red  creeper. 
I  hunted  for  food  among  the  trees,  finding 
nothing,  and  I  also  raided  a  couple  of  silent 
houses,  but  they  had  already  been  broken  into 
and  ransacked.  I  rested  for  the  remainder  of 
the  daylight  in  a  shrubbery,  being,  in  my  en- 
feebled condition,  too  fatigued  to  push  on. 

All  this  time  I  saw  no  human  beings,  and  no 
signs  of  the  Martians.  I  encountered  a  couple 
of  hungry-looking  dogs,  but  both  hurried  cir- 
cuitously  away  from  the  advances  I  made 
them.  Near  Roehampton  I  had  seen  two  hu- 
man skeletons  —  not  bodies,  but  skeletons, 
picked  clean — and  in  the  wood  by  me  I  found 
the  crushed  and  scattered  bones  of  several  cats 
and  rabbits  and  the  skull  of  a  sheep.  But 
though  I  gnawed  parts  of  these  in  my  mouth, 
there  was  nothing  to  be  got  from  them. 

After  sunset  I  struggled  on  along  the  road 
towards  Putney,  where  I  think  the  Heat-Ray 
must  have  been  used  for  some  reason.  And  in 
a  garden  beyond  Roehampton  I  got  a  quantity 
of  immature  potatoes,  sufficient  to  stay  my 
hunger.  From  this  garden  one  looked  down 
upon  Putney  and  the  river.  The  aspect  of  the 
Q  241 


THE   WAR   OF    THE    WORLDS 

place  in  the  dusk  was  singularly  desolate : 
blackened  trees,  blackened,  desolate  ruins,  and 
down  the  hill  the  sheets  of  the  flooded  river, 
red-tinged  with  the  weed.  And  over  all — 
silence.  It  filled  me  with  indescribable  terror 
to  think  how  swiftly  that  desolating  change 
had  come. 

For  a  time  I  believed  that  mankind  had  been 
swept  out  of  existence,  and  that  I  stood  there 
alone,  the  last  man  left  alive.  Hard  by  the  top 
of  Putney  Hill  I  came  upon  another  skeleton, 
with  the  arms  dislocated  and  removed  several 
yards  from  the  rest  of  the  body.  As  I  pro- 
ceeded I  became  more  and  more  convinced 
that  the  extermination  of  mankind  was,*  save 
for  such  stragglers  as  myself,  already  accom- 
plished in  this  part  of  the  world.  The  Mar- 
tians, I  thought,  had  gone  on  and  left  the 
country  desolated,  seeking  food  elsewhere. 
Perhaps  even  now  they  were  destroying  Berlin 
or  Paris,  or  it  might  be  they  had  gone  north- 
ward. 


VII 

THE   MAN   ON  PUTNEY   HILL 

I  SPENT  that  night  in  the  inn  that  stands  at 
the  top  of  Putney  Hill,  sleeping  in  a  made  bed 
for  the  first  time  since  my  flight  to  Leather- 
head.  I  will  not  tell  the  needless  trouble  I  had 
breaking  into  that  house — afterwards  I  found 
the  front  door  was  on  the  latch — nor  how  I 
ransacked  every  room  for  food,  until,  just  on 
the  verge  of  despair,  in  what  seemed  to  me  to 
be  a  servant's  bedroom,  I  found  a  rat-gnawed 
crust  and  two  tins  of  pineapples.  The  place 
had  been  already  searched  and  emptied.  In 
the  bar  I  afterwards  found  some  biscuits  and 
sandwiches  that  had  been  overlooked.  The 
latter  I  could  not  eat,  but  the  former  not  only 
stayed  my  hunger,  but  filled  my  pockets.  I  lit 
no  lamps,  fearing  some  Martian  might  come 
beating  that  part  of  London  for  food  in  the 
night.  Before  I  went  to  bed  I  had  an  interval 
of  restlessness,  and  prowled  from  window  to 
window,  peering  out  for  some  sign  of  these 
monsters.    I  slept  little.    As  I  lay  in  bed  I  found 

243 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

myself  thinking  consecutively — a  thing  I  da 
not  remember  to  have'  done  since  my  last 
argument  with  the  curate.  During  all  the  in- 
tervening time  my  mental  condition  had  been 
a  hurrying  succession  of  vague  emotional 
states  or  a  sort  of  stupid  receptivity.  But  in 
the  night  my  brain,  reinforced,  I  suppose,  by 
the  food  I  had  eaten,  grew  clear  again,  and  I 
thought. 

Three  things  struggled  for  possession  of  my 
mind  :  the  killing  of  the  curate,  the  whereabouts 
of  the  Martians,  and  the  possible  fate  of  my 
wife.  The  former  gave  me  no  sensation  of 
horror  or  remorse  to  recall ;  I  saw  it  simply  as 
a  thing  done,  a  memory  infinitely  disagreeable, 
but  quite  without  the  quality  of  remorse.  I 
saw  myself  then  as  I  see  myself  now,  driven 
step  by  step  towards  that  hasty  blow,  the 
creature  of  a  sequence  of  accidents  leading 
inevitably  to  that.  I  felt  no  condemnation  ; 
yet  the  memory,  static,  unprogressive,  haunted 
me.  In  the  silence  of  the  night,  with  that  sense 
of  the  nearness  of  God  that  sometimes  comes 
into  the  stillness  and  the  darkness,  I  stood  my 
trial,  my  only  trial,  for  that  moment  of  wrath 
and  fear.  I  retraced  every  step  of  our  con- 
versation from  the  moment  when  I  had  found 
him  crouching  beside  me,  heedless  of  my  thirst, 
and  pointing  to  the  fire  and  smoke  that  stream- 

244 


THE    MAN    ON    PUTNEY   HILL 

ed  up  from  the  ruins  of  Weybridge.  We  had 
been  incapable  of  co-operation — grim  chance 
had  taken  no  heed  of  that.  Had  I  foreseen,  I 
should  have  left  him  at  Halliford.  But  I  did 
not  foresee  ;  and  crime  is  to  foresee  and  do. 
And  I  set  this  down  as  I  have  set  all  this  story 
down,  as  it  was.  There  were  no  witnesses — 
all  these  things  I  might  have  concealed.  But 
I  set  it  down,  and  the  reader  must  form  his 
judgment  as  he  will. 

And  when,  by  an  effort,  I  had  set  aside  that 
picture  of  a  prostrate  body,  I  faced  the  prob- 
lem of  the  Martians  and  the  fate  of  my  wife. 
For  the  former  I  had  no  data ;  I  could  imagine 
a  hundred  things,  and  so,  unhappily,  I  could 
for  the  latter.  And  suddenly  that  night  be- 
came terrible.  I  found  myself  sitting  up  in 
bed,  staring  at  the  dark.  I  found  myself  pray- 
ing that  the  Heat  -  Ray  might  have  suddenly 
and  painlessly  struck  her  out  of  being.  Since 
the  night  of  my  return  from  Leatherhead  I  had 
not  prayed.  I  had  uttered  prayers,  fetich  pray- 
ers, had  prayed  as  heathens  mutter  charms 
when  I  was  in  extremity  ;  but  now  I  prayed 
indeed,  pleading  steadfastly  and  sanely,  face 
to  face  with  the  darkness  of  God.  Strange 
night !  strangest  in  this,  that  so  soon  as  dawn 
had  come,  I,  who  had  talked  with  God,  crept 
out  of  the  house  like  a  rat  leaving  its  hiding- 

245 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

place — a  creature  scarcely  larger,  an  inferior  an- 
imal, a  thing  that  for  any  passing  whim  of  our 
masters  might  be  hunted  and  killed.  Perhaps 
they  also  prayed  confidently  to  God.  Surely, 
if  we  have  learned  nothing  else,  this  war  has 
taught  us  pity — pity  for  those  witless  souls 
that  suffer  our  dominion. 

The  morning  was  bright  and  fine,  and  the 
eastern  sky  glowed  pink,  and  was  fretted  with 
little  golden  clouds.  In  the  road  that  runs 
from  the  top  of  Putney  Hill  to  Wimbledon 
was  a  number  of  pitiful  vestiges  of  the  panic 
torrent  that  must  have  poured  Londonward 
on  the  Sunday  night  after  the  fighting  began. 
There  was  a  little  two-wheeled  cart  inscribed 
with  the  name  of  Thomas  Lobb,  Green-grocer, 
New  Maiden,  with  a  smashed  wheel  and  an 
abandoned  tin  trunk ;  there  was  a  straw  hat 
trampled  into  the  now  hardened  mud,  and  at 
the  top  of  West  Hill  a  lot  of  blood-stained 
glass  about  the  overturned  water-trough.  My 
movements  were  languid,  my  plans  of  the 
vaguest.  I  had  an  idea  of  going  to  Leather- 
head,  though  I  knew  that  there  I  had  the 
poorest  chance  of  finding  my  wife.  Certainly, 
unless  death  had  overtaken  them  suddenly, 
my  cousins  and  she  would  have  fled  thence ; 
but  it  seemed  to  me  I  might  find  or  learn 
there  whither  the  Surrey  people  had  fled.     I 

246 


THE    MAN    ON    PUTNEY    HILL 

knew  I  wanted  to  find  my  wife,  that  my  heart 
ached  for  her  and  the  world  of  men,  but  I  had 
no  clear  idea  how  the  finding  might  be  done. 
I  was  also  clearly  aware  now  of  my  intense 
loneliness.  From  the  corner  I  went,  under 
cover  of  a  thicket  of  trees  and  bushes,  to  the 
edge  of  Wimbledon  Common,  stretching  wide 
and  far. 

That  dark  expanse  was  lit  in  patches  by 
yellow  gorse  and  broom  ;  there  was  no  red 
weed  to  be  seen,  and  as  I  prowled,  hesitating, 
on  the  verge  of  the  open,  the  sun  rose,  flood- 
ing it  all  with  light  and  vitality.  I  came  upon 
a  busy  swarm  of  little  frogs  in  a  swampy  place 
among  the  trees.  I  stopped  to  look  at  them, 
drawing  a  lesson  from  their  stout  resolve  to 
live.  And  presently,  turning  suddenly,  with 
an  odd  feeling  of  being  watched,  I  beheld 
something  crouching  amid  a  clump  of  bushes. 
I  stood  regarding  this.  I  made  a  step  towards 
it,  and  it  rose  up  and  became  a  man  armed 
with  a  cutlass.  I  approached  him  slowly.  He 
stood  silent  and  motionless,  regarding  me. 

As  I  drew  nearer  I  perceived  he  was  dressed 
in  clothes  as  dusty  and  filthy  as  my  own  ;  he 
looked,  indeed,  as  though  he  had  been  dragged 
through  a  culvert.  Nearer,  I  distinguished  the 
green  slime  of  ditches  mixing  with  the  pale 
drab  of  dried  clay  and  shiny,  coaly  patches. 

247 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

His  black  hair  fell  over  his  eyes,  and  his  face 
was  dark  and  dirty  and  sunken,  so  that  at  first 
I  did  not  recognize  him.  There  was  a  red  cut 
across  the  lower  part  of  his  face. 

"  Stop  !**  he  cried,  when  I  was  within  ten 
yards  of  him,  and  I  stopped.  His  voice  was 
hoarse.     "  Where  do  you  come  from  ?"  he  said. 

I  thought,  surveying  him. 

"  I  come  from  Mortlake,"  I  said.  ^*  I  was  buried 
near  the  pit  the  Martians  made  about  their  cyl- 
inder.  I  have  worked  my  way  out  and  escaped." 

"There  is  no  food  about  here,"  he  said. 
"This  is  my  country.  All  this  hill  down  to 
the  river,  and  back  to  Clapham,  and  up  to  the 
edge  of  the  common.  There  is  only  food  for 
one.     Which  way  are  you  going  ?" 

I  answered  slowly. 

"  I  don't  know,"  I  said.  "  I  have  been  buried 
in  the  ruins  of  a  house  thirteen  or  fourteen 
days.     I  don't  know  what  has  happened." 

He  looked  at  me  doubtfully,  then  started, 
and  looked  with  a  changed  expression. 

"I've  no  wish  to  stop  about  here,"  said  I. 
"I  think  I  shall  go  to  Leatherhead,  for  my 
wife  was  there." 

He  shot  out  a  pointing  finger. 

"It  is  you,"  said  he  —  "the  man  from  Wo- 
king.    And  you  weren't  killed  at  Weybridge  ?" 

I  recognized  him  at  the  same  moment. 

248 


THE    MAN    ON    PUTNEY   HILL 

"You  are  the  artilleryman  who  came  into 
my  garden." 

"  Good-luck  !"  he  said.  "  We  are  lucky  ones  ! 
FB.ncy  you/"  He  put  out  a  hand,  and  I  took 
it.  "I  crawled  up  a  drain,"  he  said.  "But 
they  didn't  kill  every  one.  And  after  they 
went  away  I  got  off  towards  Walton  across  the 
fields.  But —  It's  not  sixteen  days  altogether 
— and  your  hair  is  gray."  He  looked  over  his 
shoulder  suddenly.  '*  Only  a  rook,"  he  said. 
"One  gets  to  know  that  birds  have  shadows 
these  days.  This  ts  a  bit  open.  Let  us  crawl 
under  those  bushes  and  talk." 

"  Have  you  seen  any  Martians  ?"  I  said. 
"  Since  I  crawled  out — " 

"  They've  gone  away  across  London,"  he  said. 
"  I  guess  they've  got  a  bigger  camp  there.  Of 
a  night,  all  over  there,  Hampstead  way,  the 
sky  is  alive  with  their  lights.  It's  like  a  great 
city,  and  in  the  glare  you  can  just  see  them 
moving.  By  daylight  you  can't.  But  nearer 
—I  haven't  seen  them — "  (he  counted  on  his 
fingers)  "  five  days.  Then  I  saw  a  couple  across 
Hammersmith  way  carrying  something  big. 
And  the  night  before  last " — he  stopped  and 
spoke  impressively — "it  was  just  a  matter  of 
lights,  but  it  was  something  up  in  the  air.  I 
believe  they've  built  a  flying-machine,  and  are 
learning  to  fly." 

249 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

I  stopped,  on  hands  and  knees,  for  we  had 
come  to  the  bushes. 

"  Fly !" 

"Yes,"  he  said,  *^ fly." 

I  went  on  into  a  little  bower,  and  sat  down. 

"It  is  all  over  with  humanity,"  I  said.  "If 
they  can  do  that  they  will  simply  go  round  the 
world." 

He  nodded. 

"They  will.  But —  It  will  relieve  things 
over  here  a  bit.  And  besides — "  He  looked 
at  me.  "  Aren*t  you  satisfied  it  is  up  with  hu- 
manity ?     I  am.     We're  down  ;  we're  beat." 

I  stared.  Strange  as  it  may  seem,  I  had  not 
arrived  at. this  fact — a  fact  perfectly  obvious 
so  soon  as  he  spoke.  I  had  still  held  a  vague 
hope;  rather,  I  had  kept  a  lifelong  habit  of 
mind.  He  repeated  his  words,  "  We're  beat." 
They  carried  absolute  conviction. 

"  It's  all  over,"  he  said.  "  They've  lost  one— 
just  one.  And  they've  made  their  footing  good 
and  crippled  the  greatest  power  in  the  world. 
They've  walked  over  us.  The  death  of  that 
one  at  Weybridge  was  an  accident.  And  these 
are  only  pioneers.  They  keep  on  coming. 
These  green  stars — I've  seen  none  these  five 
or  six  days,  but  I've  no  doubt  they're  falling 
somewhere  every  night.  Nothing's  to  be  done. 
We're  under  !     We're  beat !" 

,  250 


THE    MAN    ON    PUTNEY    HILL 

I  made  him  no  answer.  I  sat  staring  before 
me,  trying  in  vain  to  devise  some  countervail- 
ing thought. 

"This  isn*t  a  war,"  said  the  artilleryman. 
"  It  never  was  a  war,  any  more  than  there's 
war  between  men  and  ants.** 

Suddenly  I  recalled  the  night  in  the  observa- 
tory. 

"  After  the  tenth  shot  they  fired  no  more — 
at  least,  until  the  first  cylinder  came." 

"  How  do  you  know  ?"  said  the  artilleryman. 
I  explained.  He  thought.  "  Something  wrong 
with  the  gun,"  he  said.  "  But  what  if  there  is  ? 
They'll  get  it  right  again.  And  even  if  there's 
a  delay,  how  can  it  alter  the  end  ?  It's  just 
men  and  ants.  There's  the  ants  builds  their 
cities,  live  their  lives,  have  wars,  revolutions, 
until  the  men  want  them  out  of  the  way,  and 
then  they  go  out  of  the  way.  That's  what  we 
are  now — just  ants.     Only — " 

"Yes,"  I  said. 

"  We're  eatable  ants." 

We  sat  looking  at  each  other. 

"  And  what  will  they  do  with  us  ?"  I  said. 

"That's  what  I've  been  thinking,"  he  said — 
"  that's  what  I've  been  thinking.  After  Wey- 
bridge  I  went  south — thinking.  I  saw  what 
was  up.  Most  of  the  people  were  hard  at  it 
squealing  and  exciting  themselves.     But  I'm 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

not  so  fond  of  squealing.  IVe  been  in  sight 
of  death  once  or  twice ;  I*m  not  an  ornamen- 
tal soldier,  and  at  the  best  and  worst,  death 
— it's  just  death.  And  it's  the  man  that  keeps 
on  thinking  comes  through.  I  saw  every  one 
tracking  away  south.  Says  I,  *  Food  won't  last 
this  way,'  and  I  turned  right  back.  I  went 
for  the  Martians  like  a  sparrow  goes  for  man. 
All  round  " — he  waved  a  hand  to  the  horizon — 
"they're  starving  in  heaps,  bolting,  treading 
on  each  other."  .  .  . 

He  saw  my  face,  and  halted  awkwardly. 

"No  doubt  lots  who  had  money  have  gone 
away  to  France,"  he  said.  He  seemed  to  hesitate 
whether  to  apologize,  met  my  eyes,  and  went 
on :  "  There's  food  all  about  here.  Canned 
things  in  shops  ;  wines,  spirits,  mineral  waters ; 
and  the  water  mains  and  drains  are  empty. 
Well,  I  was  telling  you  what  I  was  thinking. 
*  Here's  intelligent  things,'  I  said, '  and  it  seems 
they  want  us  for  food.  First,  they'll  smash  us 
up — ships,  machines,  guns,  cities,  all  the  order 
and  organization.  All  that  will  go.  If  we 
were  the  size  of  ants  we  might  pull  through. 
But  we're  not.  It's  all  too  bulky  to  stop. 
That's  the  first  certainty.'    Eh  ?" 

I  assented. 

"  It  is ;  I've  thought  it  out.  Very  well,  then — 
next ;  at  present  we're  caught  as  we're  wanted. 

252 


THE    MAN    ON    PUTNEY    HILL 

A  Martian  has  only  to  go  a  few  miles  to  get  a 
crowd  on  the  run.  And  I  saw  one,  one  day, 
out  by  Wandsworth,  picking  houses  to  pieces 
and  routing  among  the  wreckage.  But  they 
won't  keep  on  doing  that.  So  soon  as  they've 
settled  all  our  guns  and  ships,  and  smashed 
our  railways,  and  done  all  the  things  they  are 
doing  over  there,  they  will  begin  catching  us 
systematic,  picking  the  best  and  storing  us  in 
cages  and  things.  That's  what  they  will  start 
doing  in  a  bit.  Lord  !  they  haven't  begun  on 
us  yet.     Don't  you  see  that  ?" 

"Not  begun  !"  I  exclaimed. 

"  Not  begun.  All  that's  happened  so  far  is 
through  our  not  having  the  sense  to  keep  quiet 
— worrying  them  with  guns  and  such  foolery. 
And  losing  our  heads,  and  rushing  off  in  crowds 
to  where  there  wasn't  any  more  safety  than 
where  we  were.  They  don't  want  to  bother  us 
yet.  They're  making  their  things — making  all 
the  things  they  couldn't  bring  with  them,  get- 
ting things  ready  for  the  rest  of  their  people. 
Very  likely  that's  why  the  cylinders  have 
stopped  for  a  bit,  for  fear  of  hitting  those  who 
are  here.  And  instead  of  our  rushing  about 
blind,  on  the  howl,  or  getting  dynamite  on  the 
chance  of  busting  them  up,  we've  got  to  fix 
ourselves  up  according  to  the  new  state  of 
affairs.     That's  how  I  figure  it  out.     It  isn't 

253 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

quite  according  to  what  a  man  wants  for  his 
species,  but  it's  about  what  the  facts  point  to. 
And  that's  the  principle  I  acted  upon.  Cities, 
nations,  civilization,  progress  —  it's  all  over. 
That  game's  up.     We're  beat." 

"  But  if  that  is  so,  what  is  there  to  live  for  ?" 

The  artilleryman  looked  at  me  for  a  mo- 
ment. 

"There  won't  be  any  more  blessed  concerts 
for  a  million  years  or  so  ;  there  won't  be  any 
Royal  Academy  of  Arts,  and  no  nice  little  feeds 
at  restaurants.  If  it's  amusement  you're  after, 
I  reckon  the  game  is  up.  If  you've  got  any 
drawing-room  manners  or  a  dislike  to  eating 
peas  with  a  knife  or  dropping  aitches,  you'd 
better  chuck  'em  away.  They  ain't  no  further 
use." 

"  You  mean — " 

"I  mean  that  men  like  me  are  going  on 
living — for  the  sake  of  the  breed.  I  tell  you, 
I'm  grim  set  on  living.  And  if  I'm  not  mis- 
taken, you'll  show  what  insides  you've  got,  too, 
before  long.  We  aren't  going  to  be  exter- 
minated. And  I  don't  mean  to  be  caught, 
either,  and  tamed  and  fattened  and  bred  like 
a  thundering  ox.  Ugh  !  Fancy  those  brown 
creepers !" 

"  You  don't  mean  to  say — " 

**I   do.     I'm   going   on.     Under   their   feet. 

254 


THE    MAN    ON    PUTNEY    HILL 

I've  got  it  planned  ;  I've  thought  it  out.  We 
men  are  beat.  We  don't  know  enough.  We've 
got  to  learn  before  we've  got  a  chance.  And 
we've  got  to  live  and  keep  independent  while 
we  learn.     See  !     That's  what  has  to  be  done." 

I  stared,  astonished,  and  stirred  profoundly 
by  the  man's  resolution. 

"  Great  God  !"  cried  I.  "  But  you  are  a  man, 
indeed  !"     And  suddenly  I  gripped  his  hand. 

^'  Eh  !"  he  said,  with  his  eyes  shining.  ''  I've 
thought  it  out,  eh  ?" 

"  Go  on,"  I  said. 

"  Well,  those  who  mean  to  escape  their  catch- 
ing must  get  ready.  I'm  getting  ready.  Mind 
you,  it  isn't  all  of  us  that  are  made  for  wild 
beasts  ;  and  that's  what  it's  got  to  be.  That's 
why  I  watched  you.  I  had  my  doubts.  You're 
slender.  I  didn't  know  that  it  was  you,  you 
see,  or  just  how  you'd  been  buried.  All 
these — the  sort  of  people  that  lived  in  these 
houses,  and  all  those  damn  little  clerks  that 
used  to  live  down  that  way  —  they'd  be  no 
good.  They  haven't  any  spirit  in  them  —  no 
proud  dreams  and  no  proud  lusts  ;  and  a  man 
who  hasn't  one  or  the  other — Lord  !  what  is  he 
but  funk  and  precautions?  They  just  used  to 
skedaddle  off  to  work — I've  seen  hundreds  of 
'em,  bit  of  breakfast  in  hand,  running  wild  and 
shining  to  catch  their  little  season-ticket  train,. 

255 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

for  fear  they'd  get  dismissed  if  they  didn't ; 
working  at  businesses  they  were  afraid  to  take 
the  trouble  to  understand ;  skedaddling  back 
for  fear  they  wouldn't  be  in  time  for  dinner  ; 
keeping  in-doors  after  dinner  for  fear  of  the 
back  streets,  and  sleeping  with  the  wives  they 
married,  not  because  they  wanted  them,  but 
because  they  had  a  bit  of  money  that  would 
make  for  safety  in  their  one  little  miserable 
skedaddle  through  the  world.  Lives  insured 
and  a  bit  invested  for  fear  of  accidents.  And 
on  Sundays — fear  of  the  hereafter.  As  if  hell 
was  built  for  rabbits  !  Well,  the  Martians  will 
just  be  a  godsend  to  these.  Nice  roomy  cages, 
fattening  food,  careful  breeding,  no  worry. 
After  a  week  or  so  chasing  about  the  fields  and 
lands  on  empty  stomachs,  they'll  come  and  be 
caught  cheerful.  They'll  be  quite  glad  after  a 
bit.  They'll  wonder  what  people  did  before 
there  were  Martians  to  take  care  of  them. 
And  the  bar-loafers,  and  mashers,  and  singers 
— I  can  imagine  them.  I  can  imagine  them," 
he  said,  with  a  sort  of  sombre  gratification. 
**  There'll  be  any  amount  of  sentiment  and 
religion  loose  among  them.  There's  hundreds 
of  things  I  saw  with  my  eyes  that  I've  only 
begun  to  see  clearly  these  last  few  days. 
There's  lots  will  take  things  as  they  are — fat 
and  stupid ;  and  lots  will  be  worried  by  a  sort 

256 


THE    MAN    ON    PUTNEY    HILL 

of  feeling  that  it's  all  wrong,  and  that  they 
ought  to  be  doing  something.  Now,  when- 
ever things  are  so  that  a  lot  of  people  feel 
they  ought  to  be  doing  something,  the  weak, 
and  those  who  go  weak  with  a  lot  of  compli- 
cated thinking,  always  make  for  a  sort  of  do- 
nothing  religion,  very  pious  and  superior,  and 
submit  to  persecution  and  the  will  of  the  Lord. 
Very  likely  you've  seen  the  same  thing.  It's 
energy  in  a  gale  of  funk,  and  turned  clean  in- 
side out.  These  cages  will  be  full  of  psalms  and 
hymns  and  piety.  And  those  of  a  less  simple  sort 
will  work  in  a  bit  of — what  is  it  ? — eroticism." 

He  paused. 

"Very  likely  these  Martians  will  make  pets 
of  some  of  them  ;  train  them  to  do  tricks — 
who  knows  ? — get  sentimental  over  the  pet  boy 
who  grew  up  and  had  to  be  killed.  And  some, 
maybe,  they  will  train  to  hunt  us." 

"  No,"  I  cried,  "  that's  impossible  !  No  hu- 
man being — " 

**  What's  the  good  of  going  on  with  such 
lies  ?"  said  the  artilleryman.  "  There's  men 
who'd  do  it  cheerful.  What  nonsense  to  pre- 
tend there  isn't  !" 

And  I  succumbed  to  his  conviction. 

"If  they  come  after  me,"  he  said — "Lord! 
if  they  come  after  me  !"  and  subsided  into  a 
grim  meditation. 

R  257 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

I  sat  contemplating  these  things.  I  could 
find  nothing  to  bring  against  this  man's  rea- 
soning. In  the  days  before  the  invasion  no 
one  would  have  questioned  my  intellectual  su- 
periority to  his — I,  a  professed  and  recognized 
writer  on  philosophical  themes,  and  he,  a  com- 
mon soldier  ;  and  yet  he  had  already  formu- 
lated a  situation  that  I  had  scarcely  realized. 

"What  are  you  doing?"  I  said,  presently. 
"What  plans  have  you  made?" 

He  hesitated. 

"Well,  it's  like  this,"  he  said.  "What  have 
we  to  do?  We  have  to  invent  a  sort  of  life 
where  men  can  live  and  breed,  and  be  suffi- 
ciently secure  to  bring  the  children  up.  Yes 
— wait  a  bit,  and  I'll  make  it  clearer  what  I 
think  ought  to  be  done.  The  tame  ones  will 
go  like  all  tame  beasts  ;  in  a  few  generations 
they'll  be  big,  beautiful,  rich-blooded,  stupid — 
rubbish  !  The  risk  is  that  we  who  keep  wild 
will  go  savage — degenerate  into  a  sort  of  big, 
savage  rat.  .  .  .  You  see,  how  I  mean  to  live 
is  underground.  I've  been  thinking  about  the 
drains.  Of  course,  those  who  don't  know  drains 
think  horrible  things  ;  but  under  this  London 
are  miles  and  miles — hundreds  of  miles — and 
a  few  days'  rain  and  London  empty  will  leave 
them  sweet  and  clean.  The  main  drains  are 
big  enough  and  airy  enough  for  any  one.   Then 

258 


THE    MAN    ON    PUTNEY   HILL 

there's  cellars,  vaults,  stores,  from  which  bolt- 
ing passages  may  be  made  to  the  drains.  And 
the  railway  tunnels  and  subways.  Eh  ?  You 
begin  to  see  ?  And  we  form  a  band  —  able- 
bodied,  clean  -  minded  men.  We're  not  going 
to  pick  up  any  rubbish  that  drifts  in.  Weak- 
lings go  out  again." 

"  As  you  meant  me  to  go  ?" 
"Well— I  parleyed,  didn't  I?" 
"We  won't  quarrel  about  that.  Go  on." 
"  Those  who  stop  obey  orders.  Able-bodied, 
clean-minded  women  we  want  also — mothers 
and  teachers.  No  lackadaisical  ladies  —  no 
blasted  rolling  eyes.  We  can't  have  any  weak 
or  silly.  Life  is  real  again,  and  the  useless 
and  cumbersome  and  mischievous  have  to  die. 
They  ought  to  die.  They  ought  to  be  willing 
to  die.  It's  a  sort  of  disloyalty,  after  all,  to 
live  and  taint  the  race.  And  they  can't  be 
happy.  Moreover,  dying's  none  so  dreadful ; 
it's  the  funking  makes  it  bad.  And  in  all  those 
places  we  shall  gather.  Our  district  will  be 
London.  And  we  may  even  be  able  to  keep  a 
watch,  and  run  about  in  the  open  when  the 
Martians  keep  away.  '  Play  cricket,  perhaps. 
That's  how  we  shall  save  the  race.  Eh  ?  It's 
a  possible  thing  ?  But  saving  the  race  is  noth- 
ing in  itself.  As  I  say,  that's  only  being  rats. 
It's  saving  our  knowledge  and  adding  to  it  is 

259 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

the  thing.  There  men  like  you  come  in. 
There's  books,  there's  models.  We  must  make 
great  safe  places  down  deep,  and  get  all  the 
books  we  can ;  not  novels  and  poetry  swipes, 
but  ideas,  science  books.  That's  where  men 
like  you  come  in.  We  must  go  to  the  British 
Museum  and  pick  all  those  books  through. 
Especially  we  must  keep  up  our  science — learn 
more.  We  must  watch  these  Martians.  Some 
of  us  must  go  as  spies.  When  it's  all  working, 
perhaps  I  will.  Get  caught,  I  mean.  And  the 
great  thing  is,  we  must  leave  the  Martians 
alone.  We  mustn't  even  steal.  If  we  get  in 
their  way,  we  clear  out.  We  must  show  them 
we  mean  no.  harm.  Yes,  I  know.  But  they're 
intelligent  things,  and  they  won't  hunt  us 
down  if  they  have  all  they  want,  and  think 
we're  just  harmless  vermin." 

The  artilleryman  paused  and  laid  a  brown 
hand  upon  my  arm. 

"After  all,  it  may  not  be  so  much  we  may 
have  to  learn  before —  Just  imagine  this: 
Four  or  five  of  their  fighting-machines  sudden- 
ly starting  off — Heat-Rays  right  and  left,  and 
not  a  Martian  in  'em.  Not  a  Martian  in  'em, 
but  men — men  who  have  learned  the  way  how. 
It  may  be  in  my  time,  even — those  men.  Fancy 
having  one  of  them  lovely  things,  with  its 
Heat-Ray  wide  and  free  !     Fancy  having  it  in 

260 


THE    MAN    ON    PUTNEY    HILL 

control !  What  would  it  matter  if  you  smashed 
to  smithereens  at  the  end  of  the  run,  after  a 
bust  like  that  ?  I  reckon  the  Martians  '11  open 
their  beautiful  eyes  !  Can't  you  see  them,  man  ? 
Can't  you  see  them  hurrying,  hurrying — puff- 
ing and  blowing  and  hooting  to  their  other 
mechanical  affairs  ?  Something  out  of  gear  in 
every  case.  And  swish,  bang,  rattle,  swish  ! 
just  as  they  are  fumbling  over  it,  swish  comes 
the  Heat -Ray,  and,  behold!  man  has  come 
back  to  his  own." 

For  a  while  the  imaginative  daring  of  the 
artilleryman,  and  the  tone  of  assurance  and 
courage  he  assumed,  completely  dominated  my 
mind.  I  believed  unhesitatingly  both  in  his 
forecast  of  human  destiny  and  in  the  practica- 
bility of  his  astonishing  scheme,  and  the  read- 
er who  thinks  me  susceptible  and  foolish  must 
contrast  his  position,  reading  steadily,  with  all 
his  thoughts  about  his  subject,  and  mine, 
crouching  fearfully  in  the  bushes  and  listening, 
distracted  by  apprehension.  We  talked  in  this 
manner  through  the  early  morning  time,  and 
later  crept  out  of  the  bushes,  and,  after  scan- 
ning the  sky  for  Martians,  hurried  precipi- 
tately to  the  house  on  Putney  Hill  where  he 
had  made  his  lair.  It  was  the  coal-cellar  of  the 
place,  and  when  I  saw  the  work  he  had  spent  a 
week  upon — it  was  a  burrow  scarcely  ten  yards 

261 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

long,  which  he  designed  to  reach  to  the  main 
drain  on  Putney  Hill — I  had  my  first  inkling 
of  the  gulf  between  his  dreams  and  his  powers. 
Such  a  hole  I  could  have  dug  in  a  day.  But  I 
believed  in  him  sufficiently  to  work  with  him 
all  that  morning  until  past  mid-day  at  his  dig- 
ging. We  had  a  garden-barrow  and  shot  the 
earth  we  removed  against  the  kitchen  range. 
We  refreshed  ourselves  with  a  tin  of  mock- 
turtle  soup  and  wine  from  the  neighboring 
pantry.  I  found  a  curious  relief  from  the  ach- 
ing strangeness  of  the  world  in  this  steady 
labor.  As  we  worked,  I  turned  his  project 
over  in  my  mind,  and  presently  objections  and 
doubts  began  to  arise  ;  but  I  worked  there  all 
the  morning,  so  glad  was  I  to  find  myself  with 
a  purpose  again.  After  working  an  hour  I 
began  to  speculate  on  the  distance  one  had  to 
go  before  the  cloaca  was  reached,  the  chances 
we  had  of  missing  it  altogether.  My  imme- 
diate trouble  was  why  we  should  dig  this  long 
tunnel,  when  it  was  possible  to  get  into  the 
drain  at  once  down  one  of  the  manholes,  and 
work  back  to  the  house.  It  seemed  to  me,  too, 
that  the  house  was  inconveniently  chosen,  and 
required  a  needless  length  of  tunnel.  And  just 
as  I  was  beginning  to  face  these  things,  the  ar- 
tilleryman stopped  digging,  and  looked  at  me« 
"We're   working   well,"  he    said.     He    put 

262 


THE    MAN    ON    PUTNEY    HILL 

down  his  spade.  "  Let  us  knock  off  a  bit,"  he 
said.  ^*  I  think  it's  time  we  reconnoitred  from 
the  roof  of  the  house." 

I  was  for  going  on,  and  after  a  little  hesita- 
tion he  resumed  his  spade  ;  and  then  suddenly 
X  was  struck  by  a  thought.  I  stopped,  and  so 
did  he  at  once. 

"  Why  were  you  walking  about  the  Com- 
mon," I  said,  ''  instead  of  being  here  ?" 

''  Taking  the  air,"  he  said.  ''  I  was  coming 
back.     It's  safer  by  night." 

''  But  the  work  ?" 

*^  Oh,  one  can't  always  work,"  he  said,  and  in 
a  flash  I  saw  the  man  plain.  He  hesitated, 
holding  his  spade.  '*  We  ought  to  reconnoitre 
now,"  he  said,  "  because  if  any  come  near  they 
may  hear  the  spades  and  drop  upon  us  una- 
wares." 

I  was  no  longer  disposed  to  object.  We 
went  together  to  the  roof  and  stood  on  a  lad- 
der peeping  out  of  the  roof  door.  No  Martians 
were  to  be  seen,  and  we  ventured  out  on  the 
tiles,  and  slipped  down  under  shelter  of  the 
parapet. 

From  this  position  a  shrubbery  hid  the 
greater  portion  of  Putney,  but  we  could  see 
the  river  below,  a  bubbly  m.ass  of  red  weed, 
and  the  low  parts  of  Lambeth  flooded  and  red. 
The  red  creeper  swarmed  up  the  trees  about 

26  J 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

the  old  palace,  and  their  branches  stretched 
gaunt  and  dead,  and  set  with  shrivelled  leaves, 
from  amid  its  clusters.  It  was  strange  how 
entirely  dependent  both  these  things  were 
upon  flowing  water  for  their  propagation. 
About  us  neither  had  gained  a  footing  ;  labur- 
nums, pink  mays,  snowballs,  and  trees  of  arbor- 
vitae,  rose  out  of  laurels  and  hydrangeas,  green 
and  brilliant,  into  the  sunlight.  Beyond  Ken- 
sington dense  smoke  was  rising,  and  that  and 
a  blue  haze  hid  the  northwarrd  hills. 

The  artilleryman  began  to  tell  me  of  the 
sort  of  people  who  still  remained  in  Lon- 
don. 

**One  night  last  week,"  he  said,  "some  fools 
got  the  electric  light  in  order,  and  there  was  all 
Regent's  Street  and  the  Circus  ablaze,  crowded 
with  painted  and  ragged  drunkards,  men  and 
women,  dancing  and  shouting  till  dawn.  A 
man  who  was  there  told  me.  And  as  the  day 
came  they  beheld  a  fighting-machine  standing 
near  by  the  Langham  and  looking  down  at 
them.  Heaven  knows  how  long  he  had  been 
there.  He  came  down  the  road  towards  them, 
and  picked  up  nearly  a  hundred  too  drunk  or 
frightened  to  run  away." 

Grotesque  gleam  of  a  time  no  history  will 
ever  fully  describe ! 

From  that,  in  answer  to  my  questions,  he 

264 


THE    MAN    ON    PUTNEY    HILL 

came  round  to  his  grandiose  plans  again.  He 
grew  enthusiastic.  He  talked  so  eloquently  of 
the  possibility  of  capturing  a  fighting-machine 
that  I  more  than  half  believed  in  him  again. 
But  now  that  I  was  beginning  to  understand 
something  of  his  quality,  I  could  divine  the 
stress  he  laid  on  doing  nothing  precipitately. 
And  I  noted  that  now  there  was  no  question 
that  he  personally  was  to  capture  and  fight  the 
great  machine. 

After  a  time  we  went  down  to  the  cellar. 
Neither  of  us  seemed  disposed  to  resume  dig- 
ging, and  when  he  suggested  a  meal,,  I  was 
nothing  loath.  He  became  suddenly  very 
generous,  and  when  we  had  eaten  he  went 
away  and  returned  with  some  excellent  cigars. 
We  lit  these,  and  his  optimism  glowed.  He 
was  inclined  to  regard  my  coming  as  a  great 
occasion. 

"There's  some  champagne  in  the  cellar,"  he 
said. 

"  We  can  dig  better  on  this  Thames  -  side 
burgundy,"  said  I. 

"  No,"  said  he  ;  ''I  am  host  to-day.  Cham- 
pagne !  Great  God  !  we've  a  heavy  enough 
task  before  us !  Let  us  take  a  rest  and  gath- 
er strength  while  we  may.  Look  at  these  blis- 
tered hands  1" 

And  pursuant  to  this  idea  of  a  holiday,  he 

265 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

insisted  upon  playing  cards  after  we  had  eaten. 
He  taught  me  euchre,  and  after  dividing  Lon- 
don between  us,  I  taking  the  northern  side 
and  he  the  southern,  we  played  for  parish 
points.  Grotesque  and  foolish  as  this  will  seem 
to  the  sober  reader,  it  is  absolutely  true,  and, 
what  is  more  remarkable,  I  found  the  card 
game  and  several  others  we  played  extremely 
interesting. 

Strange  mind  of  man !  that,  with  our  species 
upon  the  edge  of  extermination  or  appalling 
degradation,  with  no  clear  prospect  before  us 
but  the  chance  of  a  horrible  death,  we  could 
sit  following  the  chance  of  this  painted  paste- 
board, and  playing  the  ^'  joker  '*  with  vivid  de- 
light. Afterwards  he  taught  me  poker,  and  I 
beat  him  at  three  tough  chess  games.  When 
dark  came  we  decided  to  take  the  risk,  and  lit 
a  lamp. 

After  an  interminable  string  of  games,  we 
supped,  and  the  artilleryman  finished  the  cham- 
pagne. We  continued  smoking  the  cigars.  He 
was  no  longer  the  energetic  regenerator  of  his 
species  I  had  encountered  in  the  morning.  He 
was  still  optimistic,  but  it  was  a  less  kinetic,  a 
more  thoughtful  optimism.  I  remember  he 
wound  up  with  my  health,  proposed  in  a  speech 
of  small  variety  and  considerable  intermittence. 
I  took  a  cigar,  and  went  up -stairs  to  look  at 

266 


THE    MAN    ON    PUTNEY   HILL 

the  lights  of  which  he  had  spoken,  that  blazed 
so  greenly  along  the  Highgate  hills. 

At  first  I  stared  unintelligently  across  the 
London  valley.  The  northern  hills  were 
shrouded  in  darkness  ;  the  fires  near  Kensing- 
ton glowed  redly,  and  now  and  then  an  orange- 
red  tongue  of  flame  flashed  up  and  vanished  in 
the  deep  blue  night.  All  the  rest  of  London 
was  black.  Then,  nearer,  I  perceived  a  strange 
light,  a  pale,  violet  -  purple  fluorescent  glow, 
quivering  under  the  night  breeze.  For  a  space 
I  could  not  understand  it,  and  then  I  knew  that 
it  must  be  the  red  weed  from  v/hich  this  faint 
irradiation  proceeded.  With  that  realization 
my  dormant  sense  of  wonder,  my  sense  of  the 
proportion  of  things,  awoke  again.  I  glanced 
from  that  to  Mars,  red  and  clear,  glowing  high 
in  the  west,  and  then  gazed  long  and  earnestly 
at  the  darkness  of  Hampstead  and  Highgate. 

I  remained  a  very  long  time  upon  the  roof, 
wondering  at  the  grotesque  changes  of  the  day. 
I  recalled  m.y  mental  states  from  the  midnight 
prayer  to  the  foolish  card-playing.  I  had  a  vio- 
lent revulsion  of  feeling.  I  remember  I  flung 
away  the  cigar  with  a  certain  wasteful  symbol- 
ism. My  folly  came  to  me  with  glaring  exag- 
geration. I  seemed  a  traitor  to  my  wife  and 
to  my  kind ;  I  was  filled  with  remorse.  I  re- 
solved   to    leave    this    strange    undisciplined 

267 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

dreamer  of  great  things  to  his  drink  and  glut- 
tony, and  to  go  on  into  London.  There,  it 
seemed  to  me,  I  had  the  best  chance  of  learn- 
ing what  the  Martians  and  my  fellow  -  men 
were  doing.  I  was  still  upon  the  roof  when 
the  late  moon  rose. 


VIII 

DEAD    LONDON 

After  I  had  parted  from  the  artilleryman,  I 
went  down  the  hill,  and  by  the  High  Street 
across  the  bridge  to  Lambeth.  The  red  weed 
was  tumultuous  at  that  time,  and  nearly  choked 
the  bridge  roadway,  but  its  fronds  were  already 
whitened  in  patches  by  the  spreading  disease 
that  presently  removed  it  so  swiftly. 

At  the  corner  of  the  lane  that  runs  to  Putney 
Bridge  station  I  found  a  man  lying.  He  was 
as  black  as  a  sweep  with  the  black  dust,  alive, 
but  helplessly  and  speechlessly  drunk.  I  could 
get  nothing  from  him  but  curses  and  furious 
lunges  at  my  head.  I  think  I  should  have 
stayed  by  him  but  for  the  brutal  type  of  his 
face. 

There  was  black  dust  along  the  roadway 
from  the  bridge  onwards,  and  it  grew  thicker 
in  Fulham.  The  streets  were  horribly  quiet. 
I  got  food — sour,  hard,  and  mouldy,  but  quite 
eatable — in  a  baker's  shop  here.  Some  way 
towards   Walham   Green   the  streets   became 

269 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

clear  of  powder,  and  I  passed  a  white  terrace 
of  houses  on  fire  ;  the  noise  of  the  burning  was 
an  absolute  relief.  Going  on  towards  Bromp- 
ton,  the  streets  were  quiet  again. 

Here  I  came  once  more  upon  the  black 
powder  in  the  streets  and  upon  dead  bodies. 
I  saw  altogether  about  a  dozen  in  the  length 
of  the  Fulham  Road.  They  had  been  dead 
many  days,  so  that  I  hurried  quickly  past  them. 
The  black  powder  covered  them  over,  and 
softened  their  outlines.  One  or  two  had  been 
disturbed  by  dogs. 

Where  there  was  no  black  powder,  it  was 
curiously  like  a  Sunday  in  the  City,  with  the 
closed  shops,  the  houses  locked  up  and  the 
blinds  drawn,  the  desertion,  and  the  stillness. 
In  some  places  plunderers  had  been  at  work, 
but  rarely  at  other  than  the  provision  and 
wine -shops.  A  jeweller's  window  had  been 
broken  open  in  one  place,  but  apparently  the 
thief  had  been  disturbed,  and  a  number  of  gold 
chains  and  a  watch  were  scattered  on  the  pave- 
ment. I  did  not  trouble  to  touch  them.  Far- 
ther on  was  a  tattered  woman  in  a  heap  on  a 
doorstep  ;  the  hand  that  hung  over  her  knee 
was  gashed  and  bled  down  her  rusty  brown 
dress,  and  a  smashed  magnum  of  champagne 
formed  a  pool  across  the  pavement.  She 
seemed  asleep,  but  she  was  dead. 

270 


DEAD    LONDON 

The  farther  I  penetrated  into  London,  the 
profounder  grew  the  stillness.  But  it  was  not 
so  much  the  stillness  of  death — it  was  the  still- 
ness of  suspense,  of  expectation.  At  any  time 
the  destruction  that  had  already  singed  the 
northwestern  borders  of  the  metropolis,  and 
had  annihilated  Ealing  and  Kilburn,  might 
strike  among  these  houses  and  leave  them 
smoking  ruins.  It  was  a  city  condemned  and 
derelict.  ... 

In  South  Kensington  the  streets  were  clear 
of  dead  and  of  black  powder.  It  was  near 
South  Kensington  that  I  first  heard  the  howl- 
ing. It  crept  almost  imperceptibly  upon  my 
senses.  It  was  a  sobbing  alternation  of  two 
notes,  '^  Ulla,  uUa,  ulla,  ulla,"  keeping  on  per- 
petually. When  I  passed  streets  that  ran 
northward  it  grew  in  volume,  and  houses  and 
buildings  seemed  to  deaden  and  cut  it  off 
again.  It  came  to  a  full  tide  down  Exhibition 
Road.  I  stopped,  staring  towards  Kensing- 
ton Gardens,  wondering  at  this  strange,  remote 
wailing.  It  was  as  if  that  mighty  desert  of 
houses  had  found  a  voice  for  its  fear  and  soli- 
tude. 

''  Ulla,  ulla,  ulla,  ulla,"  wailed  that  superhu- 
man note  —  great  waves  of  sound  sweeping 
down  the  broad,  sunlit  roadway,  between  the 
tall  buildings  on  each  side.      I  turned  north- 

271 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

ward,  marvelling,  towards  the  iron  gates  of 
Hyde  Park.  I  had  half  a  mind  to  break  into 
the  Natural  History  Museum  and  find  my  way 
up  to  the  summits  of  the  towers,  in  order  to 
see  across  the  park.  But  I  decided  to  keep  to 
the  ground,  where  quick  hiding  was  possible, 
and  so  went  on  up  the  Exhibition  Road.  All 
the  large  mansions  on  each  side  of  the  road 
were  empty  and  still,  and  my  footsteps  echoed 
against  the  sides  of  the  houses.  At  the  top, 
near  the  park  gate,  I  came  upon  a  strange 
sight — a  bus  overturned,  and  the  skeleton  of  a 
horse  picked  clean.  I  puzzled  over  this  for  a 
time,  and  then  went  on  to  the  bridge  over  the 
Serpentine.  The  voice  grew  stronger  and 
stronger,  though  I  could  see  nothing  above 
the  house-tops  on  the  north  side  of  the  park, 
save  a  haze  of  smoke  to  the  northwest. 

"Ulla,  ulla,  ulla,  ulla,"  cried  the  voice,  com- 
ing, as  it  seemed  to  me,  from  the  district  about 
Regent's  Park.  The  desolating  cry  worked 
upon  my  mind.  The  mood  that  had  sustained 
me  passed.  The  wailing  took  possession  of 
me.  I  found  I  was  intensely  weary,  footsore, 
and  now  again  hungry  and  thirsty. 

It  was  already  past  noon.  Why  was  I  wan- 
dering alone  in  this  city  of  the  dead  ?  Why 
was  I  alone  when  all  London  was  lying  in 
state,  and  in  its  black  shroud  ?     I  felt  intolera 

272 


DEAD    LONDON 

bly  lonely.  My  mind  ran  on  old  friends  that 
I  had  forgotten  for  years.  I  thought  of  the 
poisons  in  the  chemists'  shops,  of  the  liquors 
the  wine-merchants  stored  ;  I  recalled  the  two 
sodden  creatures  of  despair  who,  so  far  as  I 
knew,  shared  the  city  with  myself.  .  .  . 

I  came  into  Oxford  Street  by  the  Marble 
Arch,  and  here  again  were  black  powder  and 
several  bodies,  and  an  evil,  ominous  smell  from 
the  gratings  of  the  cellars  of  some  of  the 
houses.  I  grew  very  thirsty  after  the  heat  of 
my  long  walk.  With  infinite  trouble  I  man- 
aged to  break  into  a  public-house  and  get  food 
and  drink.  I  was  weary  after  eating,  and  went 
into  the  parlor  behind  the  bar,  and  slept  on  a 
black  horse-hair  sofa  I  found  there. 

I  awoke  to  find  that  dismal  howling  still  in 
my  ears,  '^Ulla,  ulla,  ulla,  uUa."  It  was  now 
dusk,  and  after  I  had  routed  out  some  biscuits 
and  a  cheese  in  the  bar  —  there  was  a  meat- 
safe,  but  it  contained  nothing  but  maggots — 
I  wandered  on  through  the  silent  residential 
squares  to  Baker  Street — Portman  Square  is 
the  only  one  I  can  name — and  so  came  out  at 
last  upon  Regent's  Park.  And  as  I  emerged 
from  the  top  of  Baker  Street^  I  saw  far  away 
over  the  trees  in  the  clearness  of  the  sunset 
the  hood  of  the  Martian  giant  from  which  this 
howling  proceeded.  I  was  not  terrified.  I 
s  273 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

came  upon  him  as  if  it  were  a  matter  of  course. 
I  watched  him  for  some  time,  but  he  did  not 
move.  He  appeared  to  be  standing  and  yell- 
ing, for  no  reason  that  I  could  discover. 

I  tried  to  formulate  a  plan  of  action.  That 
perpetual  sound  of  ''  Ulla,  ulla,  ulla,  ulla,"  con- 
fused my  mind.  Perhaps  I  was  too  tired  to 
be  very  fearful.  Certainly  I  was  more  curious 
to  know  the  reason  of  this  monotonous  crying 
than  afraid.  I  turned  back  away  from  the 
park  and  struck  into  Park  Road,  intending  to 
skirt  the  park,  went  along  under  shelter  of 
the  terraces,  and  got  a  view  of  this  stationary, 
howling  Martian  from  the  direction  of  St. 
John's  Wood.  A  couple  of  hundred  yards  out 
of  Baker  Street  I  heard  a  yelping  chorus,  and 
saw,  first  a  dog  with  a  piece  of  putrescent  red 
meat  in  his  jaws  coming  headlong  towards  me, 
and  then  a  pack  of  starving  mongrels  in  pur- 
suit of  him.  He  made  a  wide  curve  to  avoid 
me,  as  though  he  feared  I  might  prove  a  fresh 
competitor.  As  the  yelping  died  away  down 
the  silent  road,  the  wailing  sound  of  "  Ulla, 
uU^,  ulla,  ulla,"  reasserted  itself. 

I  came  upon  the  wrecked  handling-machine 
half-way  to  St.  John's  Wood  station.  At  first 
I  thought  a  house  had  fallen  across  the  road. 
It  was  only  as  I  clambered  among  the  ruins 
that  I  saw,  with  a  start,  this  mechanical  Sam- 

274 


DEAD    LONDON 

son  lying,  with  its  tentacles  bent  and  smashed 
and  twisted,  among  the  ruins  it  had  made. 
The  forepart  was  shattered.  It  seemed  as  if 
it  had  driven  blindly  straight  at  the  house, 
and  had  been  overwhelmed  in  its  overthrow. 
It  seemed  to  me  then  that  this  might  have 
happened  by  a  handling- machine  escaping 
from  the  guidance  of  its  Martian.  I  could  not 
clamber  among  the  ruins  to  see  it,  and  the 
twilight  was  now  so  far  advanced  that  the 
blood  with  which  its  seat  was  smeared,  and  the 
gnawed  gristle  of  the  Martian  that  the  dogs 
had  left,  were  invisible  to  me. 

Wondering  still  more  at  all  that  I  had  seen, 
I  pushed  on  towards  Primrose  Hill.  Far  away, 
through  a  gap  in  the  trees,  I  saw  a  second 
Martian,  as  motionless  as  the  first,  standing  in 
the  park  towards  the  Zoological  Gardens,  and 
silent.  A  little  beyond  the  ruins  about  the 
smashed  handling  -  machine  I  came  upon  the 
red  weed  again,  and  found  the  Regent's  Canal 
a  spongy  mass  of  dark-red  vegetation. 

As  I  crossed  the  bridge,  the  sound  of  "  Ulla, 
ulla,  ulla,  ulla,"  ceased.  It  was,  as  it  were,  cut 
off.    The  silence  came  like  a  thunder-clap. 

The  dusky  houses  about  me  stood  faint  and 
tall  and  dim  ;  the  trees  towards  the  park  were 
growing  black.  All  about  me  the  red  weed 
clambered  among  the  ruins,  writhing  to  get 

275 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

above  me  in  the  dimness.  Night,  the  mother  of 
fear  and  mystery,  was  coming  upon  me.  But 
while  that  voice  sounded  the  solitude,  the 
desolation,  had  been  endurable  ;  by  virtue  of 
it  London  had  still  seemed  alive,  and  the  sense 
of  life  about  me  had  upheld  me.  Then  sud- 
denly a  change,  the  passing  of  something — I 
knew  not  what— and  then  a  stillness  that  could 
be  felt.     Nothing  but  this  gaunt  quiet. 

London  about  me  gazed  at  me  spectrally. 
The  windows  in  the  white  houses  were  like  the 
eye-sockets  of  skulls.  About  md  my  imagina- 
tion found  a  thousand  noiseless  enemies  mov- 
ing. Terror  seized  me,  a  horror  of  my  temer- 
ity. In  front  of  me  the  road  became  pitchy 
black  as  though  it  was  tarred,  and  I  saw  a  con- 
torted shape  lying  across  the  pathway.  I  could 
not  bring  myself  to  go  on.  I  turned  down  St. 
John's  Wood  Road,  and  ran  headlong  from 
this  unendurable  stillness  towards  Kilburn. 
I  hid  from  the  night  and  the  silence,  until 
long  after  midnight,  in  a  cabmen's  shelter  in 
Harrow  Road.  But  before  the  dawn  my  cour- 
age returned,  and  while  the  stars  were  still  in 
the  sky  I  turned  once  more  towards  Re- 
gent's Park.  I  missed  my  way  among  the 
streets,  and  presently  saw,  down  a  long  avenue, 
in  the  half-light  of  the  early  dawn,  the  curve 
of  Primrose  Hill.     On  the  summit,  towering 


DEAD    LONDON 

up  to  the  fading  stars,  was  a  third  Martian, 
erect  and  motionless  like  the  others. 

An  insane  resolve  possessed  me.  I  would 
die  and  end  it.  And  I  would  save  myself  even 
the  trouble  of  killing  myself.  I  marched  on 
recklessly  towards  this  Titan,  and  then,  as  I 
drew  nearer  and  the  light  grew,  I  saw  that  a 
multitude  of  black  birds  was  circling  and  clus- 
tering about  the  hood.  At  that  my  heart 
gave  a  bound,  and  I  began  running  along  the 
road. 

I  hurried  through  the  red  weed  that  choked 
St.  Edmund's  Terrace  (I  waded  breast-high 
across  a  torrent  of  water  that  was  rushing 
down  from  the  water-works  towards  the  Al- 
bert Road),  and  emerged  upon  the  grass  before 
the  rising  of  the  sun.  Great  mounds  had  been 
heaped  about  the  crest  of  the  hill,  making  a 
huge  redoubt  of  it — it  was  the  final  and  larg- 
est place  the  Martians  had  made — and  from 
behind  these  heaps  there  rose  a  thin  smoke 
against  the  sky.  Against  the  sky-line  an  eager 
dog  ran  and  disappeared.  The  thought  that 
had  flashed  into  my  mind  grew  real,  grew  cred- 
ible. I  felt  no  fear,  only  a  wild,  trembling  ex- 
ultation, as  I  ran  up  the  hill  towards  the  mo- 
tionless monster.  Out  of  the  hood  hung  lank 
shreds  of  brown,  at  which  the  hungry  birds 
pecked  and  tore. 

277 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

In  another  moment  I  had  scrambled  up  the 
earthen  rampart  and  stood  upon  its  crest,  and 
the  interior  of  the  redoubt  was  below  me.  A 
mighty  space  it  was,  with  gigantic  machines 
here  and  there  within  it,  huge  mounds  of  ma- 
terial and  strange  shelter-places.  And,  scat- 
tered about  it,  some  in  their  overturned  war- 
machines,  some  in  the  now  rigid  handling- 
machines,  and  a  dozen  of  them  stark  and  silent 
and  laid  in  a  row,  were  the  Martians — dead! — 
slain  by  the  putrefactive  and  disease  bacteria 
against  which  their  systems  were  unprepared ; 
slain  as  the  red  weed  was  being  slain  ;  slain, 
after  all  man's  devices  had  failed,  by  the  hum- 
blest things  that  God,  in  his  wisdom,  has  put 
upon  this  earth. 

For  so  it  had  come  about,  as,  indeed,  I  and 
many  men  might  have  foreseen  had  not  terror 
and  disaster  blinded  our  minds.  These  germs 
of  disease  have  taken  toll  of  humanity  since 
the  beginning  of  things — taken  toll  of  our  pre- 
human ancestors  since  life  began  here.  But  by 
virtue  of  this  natural  selection  of  our  kind  we 
have  developed  resisting  power  ;  to  no  germs 
do  we  succumb  without  a  struggle,  and  to  many 
— those  that  cause  putrefaction  in  dead  matter, 
for  instance — our  living  frames  are  altogether 
immune.  But  there  are  no  bacteria  in  Mars, 
and  directly  these  invaders   arrived,  directly 

378 


DEAD    LONDON 

they  drank  and  fed,  our  microscopic  allies  be- 
gan to  work  their  overthrow.  Already  when  I 
watched  them  they  were  irrevocably  doomed, 
dying  and  rotting  even  as  they  went  to  and 
fro.  It  was  inevitable.  By  the  toll  of  a  billion 
deaths  man  has  bought  his  birthright  of  the 
earth,  and  it  is  his  against  all  comers  ;  it  would 
still  be  his  were  the  Martians  ten  times  as 
mighty  as  they  are.  For  neither  do  men  live 
nor  die  in  vain. 

Here  and  there  they  were  scattered,  nearly 
fifty  altogether,  in  that  great  gulf  they  had 
made,  overtaken  by  a  death  that  must  have 
seemed  to  them  as  incomprehensible  as  any 
death  could  be.  To  me  also  at  that  time  this 
death  was  incomprehensible.  All  I  knew  was 
that  these  things  that  had  been  alive  and  so 
terrible  to  men  were  dead.  For  a  moment  I 
believed  that  the  destruction  of  Sennacherib 
had  been  repeated,  that  God  had  repented, 
that  the  Angel  of  Death  had  slain  them  in 
the  night. 

I  stood  staring  into  the  pit,  and  my  heart 
lightened  gloriously,  even  as  the  rising  sun 
struck  the  world  to  fire  about  me  with  his 
rays.  The  pit  was  still  in  darkness ;  the 
mighty  engines,  so  great  and  wonderful  in 
their  power  and  complexity,  so  unearthly  in 
their   tortuous   forms,  rose   weird   and  vague 

279 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

and  strange  out  of  the  shadows  towards  the 
light.  A  multitude  of  dogs,  I  could  hear, 
fought  over  the  bodies  that  lay  darkly  in  the 
depth  of  the  pit,  far  below  me.  Across  the  pit 
on  its  farther  lip,  flat  and  vast  and  strange,  lay 
the  great  flying-machine  with  which  they  had 
been  experimenting  upon  our  denser  atmos- 
phere when  decay  and  death  arrested  them. 
Death  had  come  not  a  day  too  soon.  At  the 
sound  of  a  cawing  overhead  I  looked  up  at  the 
huge  fighting -machine,  that  would  fight  no 
more  forever,  at  the  tattered  red  shreds  of 
flesh  that  dripped  down  upon  the  overturned 
seats  on  the  summit  of  Primrose  Hill. 

I  turned  and  looked  down  the  slope  of  the 
hill  to  where,  enhaloed  now  in  birds,  stood 
those  other  two  Martians  that  I  had  seen 
overnight,  just  as  death  had  overtaken  them. 
The  one  had  died,  even  as  it  had  been  crying 
to  its  companions  ;  perhaps  it  was  the  last 
to  die,  and  its  voice  had  gone  on  perpetually 
until  the  force  of  its  machinery  was  exhausted. 
They  glittered  now,  harmless  tripod  towers  of 
shining  metal,  in  the  brightness  of  the  rising 
sun. 

All  about  the  pit,  and  saved  as  by  a  miracle 
from  everlasting  destruction,  stretched  the 
great  Mother  of  Cities.  Those  who  have  only 
seen  London  veiled  in  her   sombre   robes   of 

280 


DEAD    LONDON 

smoke  can  scarcely  imagine  the  naked  clear- 
ness and  beauty  of  the  silent  wilderness  of 
houses. 

Eastward,  over  the  blackened  ruins  of  the 
Albert  Terrace  and  the  splintered  spire  of  the 
church,  the  sun  blazed  dazzling  in  a  clear  sky, 
and  here  and  there  some  facet  in  the  great 
wilderness  of  roofs  caught  the  light  and  glared 
with  a  white  intensity. 

Northward  were  Kilburn  and  Hampstead, 
blue  and  crowded  with  houses  ;  westward  the 
great  city  was  dimmed  ;  and  southward,  be- 
yond the  Martians,  the  green  waves  of  Regent's 
Park,  the  Langham  Hotel,  the  dome  of  the 
Albert  Hall,  the  Imperial  Institute,  and  the 
giant  mansions  of  the  Brompton  Road  came 
out  clear  and  little  in  the  sunrise,  the  jagged 
ruins  of  Westminster  rising  hazily  beyond. 
Far  away  and  blue  were  the  Surrey  hills,  and 
the  towers  of  the  Crystal  Palace  glittered  like 
two  silver  rods.  The  dome  of  St.  Paul's  was 
dark  against  the  sunrise,  and  injured,  I  saw  for 
the  first  time,  by  a  huge  gaping  cavity  on  its 
western  side. 

And  as  I  looked  at  this  wide  expanse  of 
houses  and  factories  and  churches,  silent  and 
abandoned ;  as  I  thought  of  the  multitudinous 
hopes  and  efforts,  the  innumerable  hosts  of 
lives  that  had  gone  to  build  this  human  reef, 

281 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

and  of  the  swift  and  ruthless  destruction  that 
had  hung  over  it  all  ;  when  I  realized  that  the 
shadow  had  been  rolled  back,  and  that  men 
might  still  live  in  the  streets,  and  this  dear 
vast  dead  city  of  mine  be  once  more  alive  and 
powerful,  I  felt  a  wave  of  emotion  that  was 
near  akin  to  tears. 

The  torment  was  over.  Even  that  day  the 
healing  would  begin.  The  survivors  of  the 
people  scattered  over  the  country — leaderless, 
lawless,  foodless,  like  sheep  without  a  shepherd 
— the  thousands  who  had  fled  by  sea,  would 
begin  to  return  ;  the  pulse  of  life,  growing 
stronger  and  stronger,  would  beat  again  in 
the  empty  streets  and  pour  across  the  vacant 
squares.  Whatever  destruction  was  done,  the 
hand  of  the  destroyer  was  stayed.  All  the 
gaunt  wrecks,  the  blackened  skeletons  of  houses 
that  stared  so  dismally  at  the  sunlit  grass  of 
the  hill,  would  presently  be  echoing  with  the 
hammers  of  the  restorers  and  ringing  with  the 
tapping  of  the  trowels.  At  the  thought  I  ex- 
tended my  hands  towards  the  sky  and  began 
thanking  God.  In  a  year,  thought  I  —  in  a 
year  ... 

And  then,  with  overwhelming  force,  came 
the  thought  of  myself,  of  my  wife,  and  the  old 
life  of  hope  and  tender  helpfulness  that  had 
ceased  forever. 

282 


IX 

WRECKAGE 

And  now  comes  the  strangest  thing  in  my 
story.  And  yet,  perhaps,  it  is  not  altogether 
strange.  I  remember,  clearly  and  coldly  and 
vividly,  all  that  I  did  that  day  until  the  time 
that  I  stood  weeping  and  praising  God  upon 
the  summit  of  Primrose  Hill.    And  then  I  forget 

Of  the  next  three  days  I  know  nothing.  I 
have  learned  since  that,  so  far  from  my  being 
the  first  discoverer  of  the  Martian  overthrow, 
several  such  wanderers  as  myself  had  already 
discovered  this  on  the  previous  night.  One 
man — the  first — had  gone  to  St.  Martin's-le- 
Grand,  and,  while  I  sheltered  in  the  cabmen's 
hut,  had  contrived  to  telegraph  to  Paris. 
Thence  the  joyful  news  had  flashed  all  over 
the  world  ;  a  thousand  cities,  chilled  by  ghastly 
apprehensions,  suddenly  flashed  into  frantic 
illuminations  ;  they  knew  of  it  in  Dublin,  Edin- 
burgh, Manchester,  Birmingham,  at  the  time 
when  I  stood  upon  the  verge  of  the  pit.  Al- 
ready men,  weeping  with  joy,  as  I  have  heard, 

283 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

shouting  and  staying  their  work  to  shake  hands 
and  shout,  were  making  up  trains,  even  as  near 
as  Crewe,  to  descend  upon  London.  The  church 
bells  that  had  ceased  a  fortnight  since  suddenly 
caught  the  news,  until  all  England  was  bell- 
ringing.  Men  on  cycles,  lean-faced,  unkempt, 
scorched  along  every  country  lane  shouting  of 
unhoped  deliverance,  shouting  to  gaunt,  star- 
ing figures  of  despair.  And  for  the  food! 
Across  the  Channel,  across  the  Irish  Sea,  across 
the  Atlantic,  corn,  bread,  and  meat  were  tearing 
to  our  relief.  All  the  shipping  in  the  world 
seemed  going  Londonward  in  those  days.  But 
of  all  this  I  have  no  memory.  I  drifted — a 
demented  man.  I  found  myself  in  a  house  of 
kindly  people,  who  had  found  me  on  the  third 
day  wandering,  weeping,  and  raving  through 
the  streets  of  St.  John's  Wood.  They  have 
told  me  since  that  I  was  singing  some  inane 
doggerel  about  "  The  Last  Man  Left  Alive  ! 
Hurrah!  The  Last  Man  Left  Alive!"  Troubled 
as  they  were  with  their  own  affairs,  these  peo- 
ple, whose  name,  much  as  I  would  like  to  ex- 
press my  gratitude  to  them,  I  may  not  even 
give  here,  nevertheless  cumbered  themselves 
with  me,  sheltered  me,  and  protected  me  from 
myself.  Apparently  they  had  learned  some- 
thing of  my  story  from  me  during  the  days  of 
my  lapse. 

284 


WRECKAGE 

Very  gently,  when  my  mind  was  assured 
again,  did  they  break  to  me  what  they  had 
learned  of  the  fate  of  Leatherhead.  Two  days 
after  I  was  imprisoned  it  had  been  destroyed, 
with  every  soul  in  it,  by  a  Martian.  He  had 
swept  it  out  of  existence,  as  it  seemed,  without 
any  provocation,  as  a  boy  might  crush  an  ant- 
hill, in  the  mere  wantonness  of  power. 

I  was  a  lonely  man,  and  they  were  very  kind 
to  me.  I  was  a  lonely  man  and  a  sad  one,  and 
they  bore  with  me.  I  remained  with  them 
four  days  after  my  recovery.  All  that  time 
I  felt  a  vague,  a  growing  craving  to  look  once 
more  on  whatever  remained  of  the  little  life 
that  seemed  so  happy  and  bright  in  my  past. 
It  was  a  mere  hopeless  desire  to  feast  upon  my 
misery.  They  dissuaded  me.  They  did  all  they 
could  to  divert  me  from  this  morbidity.  But 
at  last  I  could  resist  the  impulse  no  longer, 
and,  promising  faithfully  to  return  to  them, 
and  parting,  as  I  will  confess,  from  these  four- 
day  friends  with  tears,  I  went  out  again  into 
the  streets  that  had  lately  been  so  dark  and 
strange  and  empty. 

Already  they  were  busy  with  returning  peo- 
ple ;  in  places  even  there  were  shops  open,  and 
I  saw  a  drinking-fountain  running  water. 

I  remember  how  mockingly  bright  the  day 
seemed  as  I  went  back  on  my  melancholy  pil- 

28s 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

grimage  to  the  little  house  at  Woking,  how 
busy  the  streets  and  vivid  the  moving  life 
about  me.  So  many  people  were  abroad  every- 
where, busied  in  a  thousand  activities,  that  it 
seemed  incredible  that  any  great  proportion  of 
the  population  could  have  been  slain.  But 
then  I  noticed  how  yellow  were  the  skins  of 
the  people  I  met,  how  shaggy  the  hair  of  the 
men,  how  large  and  bright  their  eyes,  and  that 
every  other  man  still  wore  his  dirty  rags.  The 
faces  seemed  all  with  one  of  two  expressions — 
a  leaping  exultation  and  energy  or  a  grim 
resolution.  Save  for  the  expression  of  the 
faces,  London  seemed  a  city  of  tramps.  The 
vestries  were  indiscriminately  distributing 
bread  sent  us  by  the  French  government. 
The  ribs  of  the  few  horses  showed  dismally. 
Haggard  special  constables  with  white  badges 
stood  at  the  corners  of  every  street.  I  saw 
little  of  the  mischief  wrought  by  the  Martians 
until  I  reached  Wellington  Street,  and  there  I 
saw  the  red  weed  clambering  over  the  but- 
tresses of  Waterloo  Bridge. 

At  the  corner  of  the  bridge,  too,  I  saw  one 
of  the  commxon  contrasts  of  that  grotesque 
time  —  a  sheet  of  paper  flaunting  against  a 
thicket  of  the  red  weed,  transfixed  by  a  stick 
that  kept  it  in  place.  It  was  the  placard  of 
the  first  newspaper  to  resume  publication — the 

286 


WRECKAGE 

Daily  Mail,  I  bought  a  copy  for  a  blackened 
shilling  I  found  in  my  pocket.  Most  of  it  was 
in  blank,  but  the  solitary  compositor  who  did 
the  thing  had  amused  himself  by  making  a 
grotesque  scheme  of  advertisement  stereo  on 
the  back  page.  The  matter  he  printed  was 
emotional ;  the  news  organization  had  not  as 
yet  found  its  way  back.  I  learned  nothing  fresh 
except  that  already  in  one  week  the  examina- 
tion of  the  Martian  mechanisms  had  yielded 
astonishing  results.  Among  other  things,  the 
article  assured  me  what  I  did  not  believe  at 
the  time,  that  the  "Secret  of  Flying"  was  dis- 
covered. At  Waterloo  I  found  the  free  trains 
that  were  taking  people  to  their  homes.  The 
first  rush  was  already  over.  There  were  few 
people  in  the  train,  and  I  was  in  no  mood  for 
casual  conversation.  I  got  a  compartment  to 
myself,  and  sat  with  folded  arms,  looking  gray- 
ly  at  the  sunlit  devastation  that  flowed  past 
the  windows.  And  just  outside  the  terminus 
the  train  jolted  over  temporary  rails,  and  on 
either  side  of  the  railway  the  houses  were 
blackened  ruins.  To  Clapham  Junction  the 
face  of  London  was  grimy  with  powder  of  the 
Black  Smoke,  in  spite  of  two  days  of  thunder- 
storms and  rain,  and  at  Clapham  Junction  the 
line  had  been  wrecked  again  ;  there  were  hun- 
dreds of  out-of-work  clerks  and  shopmen  work- 

287 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

ing  side  by  side  with  the  customary  navvies, 
and  we  were  jolted  over  a  hasty  relaying. 

All  down  the  line  from  there  the  aspect  of 
the  country  was  gaunt  and  unfamiliar  ;  Wim- 
bledon particularly  had  suffered.  Walton,  by 
virtue  of  its  unburned  pine- woods,  seemed  the 
least  hurt  of  any  place  along  the  line.  The 
Wandle,  the  Mole,  every  little  stream,  was  a 
heaped  mass  of  red  weed,  in  appearance  be- 
tween butcher's  meat  and  pickled  cabbage. 
The  Surrey  pine-woods  were  too  dry,  however, 
for  the  festoons  of  the  red  climber.  Beyond 
Wimbledon,  within  sight  of  the  line,  in  certain 
nursery  grounds,  were  the  heaped  masses  of 
earth  about  the  sixth  cylinder.  A  number  of 
people  were  standing  about  it,  and  some  sap- 
pers were  busy  in  the  midst  of  it.  Over  it 
flaunted  a  Union  Jack,  flapping  cheerfully  in 
the  morning  breeze.  The  nursery  grounds 
were  everywhere  crimson  with  the  weed,  a 
wide  expanse  of  livid  color  cut  with  purple 
shadows,  and  very  painful  to  the  eye.  One's 
gaze  went  with  infinite  relief  from  the  scorched 
grays  and  sullen  reds  of  the  foreground  to  the 
blue-green  softness  of  the  eastward  hills. 

The  line  on  the  London  side  of  Woking 
station  was  still  undergoing  repair,  so  I  de- 
scended at  Byfleet  station  and  took  the  road 
to  Maybury,  past  the  place  where  I  and  th^ 

288 


WRECKAGE 

artilleryman  had  talked  to  the  hussars,  and  on 
by  the  spot  where  the  Martian  had  appeared 
to  me  in  the  thunder-storm.  Here,  moved  by 
curiosity,  I  turned  aside  to  find,  among  a  tan- 
gle of  red  fronds,  the  warped  and  broken  dog- 
cart with  the  whitened  bones  of  the  horse, 
scattered  and  gnawed.  For  a  time  I  stood  re- 
garding these  vestiges.      .  . 

Then  I  returned  through  the  pine  -  wood, 
neck -high  with  red  weed  here  and  there,  to 
find  the  landlord  of  the  Spotted  Dog  had  al- 
ready found  burial,  and  so  came  home  past  the 
College  Arms.  A  man  standing  at  an  open 
cottage  door  greeted  me  by  name  as  I  passed. 

I  looked  at  my  house  with  a  quick  flash  of 
hope  that  faded  immediately.  The  door  had 
been  forced ;  it  was  unfastened,  and  was  open- 
ing slowly  as  I  approached. 

It  slammed  again.  The  curtains  of  my 
study  fluttered  out  of  the  open  window  from 
which  I  and  the  artilleryman  had  watched  the 
dawn.  No  one  had  closed  it  since.  The 
smashed  bushes  were  just  as  I  had  left  them 
nearly  four  weeks  ago.  I  stumbled  into  the 
hall,  and  the  house  felt  empty.  The  stair- 
carpet  was  ruffled  and  discolored  where  I  had 
crouched,  soaked  to  the  skin  from  the  thunder- 
storm the  night  of  the  catastrophe.  Our 
muddy  footsteps  I  saw  still  went  up  the  stairs. 
T  289 


THE    WAR    OF    THE    WORLDS 

I  followed  them  to  my  study,  and  found  lying 
on  my  writing-table  still,  with  the  selenite 
paper-weight  upon  it,  the  sheet  of  work  I  had 
left  on  the  afternoon  of  the  opening  of  the 
cylinder.  For  a  space  I  stood  reading  over  my 
abandoned  arguments.  It  was  a  paper  on  the 
probable  development  of  Moral  Ideas  with  the 
development  of  the  civilizing  process  ;  and  the 
last  sentence  was  the  opening  of  a  prophecy : 
"  In  about  two  hundred  years,"  I  had  written, 
"we  may  expect — ''  The  sentence  ended  ab- 
ruptly. I  remembered  my  inability  to  fix  my 
mind  that  morning,  scarcely  a  month  gone  by, 
and  how  I  had  broken  off  to  get  my  Daily 
Chronicle  from  the  newsboy.  I  remembered 
how  I  went  down  to  the  garden  gate  as  he 
came  along,  and  how  I  had  listened  to  his  odd 
story  of  "  Men  from  Mars." 

I  came  down  and  went  into  the  dining-room. 
There  were  the  mutton  ana  the  bread,  both  far 
gone  now  in  decay,  and  a  beer  bottle  over- 
turned, just  as  I  and  the  artilleryman  had  left 
them.  My  home  was  desolate.  I  perceived 
the  folly  of  the  faint  hope  I  had  cherished  so 
long.  And  then  a  strange  thing  occurred. 
"It  is  no  use,"  said  a  voice.  "The  house  is 
deserted.  No  one  has  been  here  these  ten 
days.  Do  not  stay  here  to  torment  yourself. 
No  one  escaped  but  you." 

290 


WRECKAGE 

I  was  startled.  Had  I  spoken  my  thought 
aloud  ?  I  turned,  and  the  French  window  was 
open  behind  me.  I  made  a  step  to  it,  and 
stood  looking  out. 

And  there,  amazed  and  afraid,  even  as  I 
stood  amazed  and  afraid,  were  my  cousin  and 
my  wife — my  wife  white  and  tearless.  She 
gave  a  faint  cry. 

"  I  came,'*  she  said.    "  I  knew — knew — " 

She  put  her  hand  to  her  throat — swayed.  I 
made  a  step  forward,  and  caught  her  in  my 
arms. 


THE   END 


.  ^  --^^m. 


<^  -'-r. 


^    ,A 


rP 


\< 


^^^    .<^^ 


V 


A 


"^^i^j^-^ 


■  0^ 


t') 


J-   \> 


C^ 


a\         ..  ^'  ^  k 


'/- 


A 


/    ^       '^b  0^ 

^5  -^.t. 

;::•/; 

■^' "%  °/'^  A>}^ .  -  ^ 


c«x: 


§^ 


00' 

.4   -/- 


^^~'    ^>. 


aX 


\'  -X' 


xy  -^r 


O 


V 


^^ 


s  ^   .A 


O' 


c:^'^ 


-r\ 


A^  .^^    ^   ^        '^'^ 


--^      <^' 


■^      ^  .      -  '^^'  ^  ^ 


Oo 


/- 


-y  , 


-^x 


-^^' 


#^" 


0  ^    c 


aV-^  -''f 


-> 


K>^        X 


^-^  -V 


/' 


.^> 


-^  ^^   ^ /:  ;■  ^ 

A-)o          -    ': 

\              ^.                    y        V 

^        ">•                        ^'         ^ 

-'if^-' 

r->           /          ^Jvv>r-       ^ 

o 

^  V 1  ^  - '  ^c^" 

.     ,  '^/.  *  •■  ^-  - 

A>~ 

v^^ 

^  ^           //      c^ 

.    .x''  .-; 

\.^#£%^^_''    -e. 

"^.%^" 

^^^•% 

^^^ 


C^.         /' 


^^•^ 


.^ 


/\^  -  ^    '    -^    *         '^. 


^^    C^ 


V  ^-: 


h.  ^^ 


