CKJorccstcr  £>olutcchnic  institute 
(Bcorgc  £.  Gordon  libraru 


.frii""  -»-*•*"■ 


[CROSSINGS 


if 

:  p. .  I L  ; 

|  -  !     ■    PP.  ■ 

i.^nis 

m    T 


JHW  f    Iff 


Wyman-Gordon  is  the  country's  out- 
standing producer  of  forged  compo- 
nents for  America's  key  industries. 
Wyman-Gordon  has  supplied  forgings 
for  virtually  every  aircraft  in  the  skies 
today,  as  well  as  for  the  Saturn  and 
other  space  boosters.  Equally  important 
is  its  production  of  vital  components 
for  nuclear  and  turbine  power  plants, 
sea  and  undersea  vessels,  trucks,  trac- 
tors and  construction  equipment. 

Research  is  a  hallmark  of  Wyman- 
Gordon;  its  Research  and  Development 
teams  have  long  been  recognized  as  in- 
dustry leadersinthedevelopmentof  new 
techniques  for  advanced  materials  such 
as  titanium  and  other  space-age  alloys. 


WYMAN  -  GORDON 


Worcester— North  Grafton— Millbury 
Midwest  Division:  Harvey,  Illinois 

Subsidiaries 

REISNER  METALS,  INC. 

South  Gate.  California 

ROLLMET,  INC. 

Santa  Ana,  California 

CAST  TECHNOLOGY,  INC. 

Schenectady,  N.Y. 

WYMAN-GORDON  INDIA,  LTD. 

Bombay.  India 

Sales  Offices  Worldwide 


journal 


Vol.  75,  no.  1 
October,  1971 


H.  Russell  Kay 

Editor 

Published  for  the  Alumni  Association 
by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 

Copyright  ©  1971  by 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 
All  rights  reserved. 


WPI  Alumni  Association   Officers 

President: 

I.  J.  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44 

Vice  Presidents: 

B.  E.  Hosmer,  '61 
W.J.  Bank,  '46 

Secretary-  Treasurer: 
S.J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President: 
R.  E.  Higgs,  '40 

Executive  Committee, 
Members -at- Large: 

C.  C.  Bonin,  '38;  F.  S.  Harvey,  '37; 
C.  W.  Backstrom,  '30;  L.  Polizzotto,  '70 

Fund  Board: 

G.  F.  Crowther,  '37;  A.  Kalenian,  '33; 
R.  F.  Burke,  Jr.,  '38;  L  A.  Penoncello, 
'66;  W.  J.  Charow,  '49;  H.  I.  Nelson,  '54 

Alumni  Office  Staff: 

Director,  Alumni-Development  Records 

and  Services:  Norma  F.  Larson 
Fund  Secretary:  Stephanie  A.  Beland 
Records  Secretary:  Helen  J.  Winter 
Secretary:  Dorothy  Y.  Gurney 


The  WPI  Journal  is  published  five  times  a  year 
in  October,  December,  February,  April,  August. 
Entered  as  second  class  matter  July  26,  1918, 
at  the  Post  Office,  Worcester,  Massachusetts, 
under  the  act  of  March  3,  1879.  Subscription 
two  dollars  per  year.  Postmaster:  Please  send 
form  3579  to  Alumni  Association,  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester,  Mass.  01609. 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


In  This  Issue 

Politicians  and  Pollution page  two 

A  brief  essay  on  the  relationships  between  pollution  control  and  politicians  —  the  good  and 
the  bad  that  have  been  done,  and  some  practical  suggestions  for  the  future;  by  Kenneth  H. 
Maymon,  '70. 


Indra  —  The  Thunder  and  Lightning  of  Joe  Goulart  page  six 

A  remarkable  automobile  and  its  equally  remarkable  builder. 

Intersession  1972 page  eight 

An  exciting  new  part  of  the  WPI   Plan,  with  over  150  three-day  mini-courses  in  January, 
open  to  all  alumni  at  a  special  price! 

Alumni  Office  Promotions         page  twenty 

Warren  Zepp  and  Stephen  Hebert  take  new  positions. 

The  Alumni  Fund  Report  page  twenty-two 

Last  year  the  Fund  set  a  new  record  in  alumni  giving,  at  $21 2,000.  Here  are  the  details. 

DEPARTMENTS 

Campus  Notes 11 

Varsity  Review  12 

Reunion  Roundup  13 

In  Memory 36 

Your  Class  and  Others  41 


PHOTO  CREDITS:  Cover:  Worcester  Telegram  &  Gazette;  p.  2:  AP 
Newsfeatures;  p.  4:  World  Book  Encyclopedia  Science  Service;  p.  5: 
Worcester  Telegram  &  Gazette;  pp.  6-7:  Russell  Kay;  p.  12:  The 
Peddler,  1971;  pp.  13-19,  21,  22:  Marvin  Richmond. 


POLITICIANS 


and 


POL 


We  have  a  serious  pollution  problem  in  this  country.  Our 
"friendly"  politicians  would  have  us  believe  that  the  only 
solution   is   to   spend  additional  huge  sums  of  money.  P 
maintain  that  a  bigger  problem  is  to  somehow  turn 
politician  of  today  into  a  fair-minded,  thinking  individu; 

Today  we  hear  a  lot  of  flowery  talk  and  eloquent 
rhetoric  concerning  pollution  from  the  halls  of  Congress. 
On  the  surface,  this  might  give  the  impression  of  sincere 
concern.  On  closer  examination,  however,  we  find  that 
while  expressing  concern  over  pollution  the  same  congress- 
men are  pushing  their  pet  projects  through  Congress  with 
little  thought  to  the  welfare  of  the  nation. 

Last  year  the  governor,  senators,  and  representatives  of 
the  state  of  New  Hampshire  were  shocked  and  upset  when 
the  federal  government  decided  not  to  spend  millions  of 
dollars  to  build  a  highway  through  the  White  Mountains.  It 
would  have  been  wasted  money,  1  feel,  and  would  have 
been  detrimental  to  the  present  wilderness  character  of  the 
region.  That  money  is  better  not  spent.  Who  would  have 
benefited  from  the  highway?  Businessmen  and  the  state 
economy?  I  doubt  this.  People  are  drawn  to  the  area  by  its 
tranquil  and  natural  beauty.  It  would  be  spoiled  by  the  rush 
of  superhighway  travel;  more  people  could  get  there 
quicker,  leave  their  trash,  and  get  out  just  as  quickly.  In 
time  the  area  would  lose  its  natural  attraction. 


by  Kenneth  H.  Maymon,  '"7( 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


The  Bureau  of  Public  Roads,  now  in  the  Department  of 
Commerce,  is  one  of  the  principal  instruments  of  highway 
extension.  The  bureau,  which  is  not  sensitive  to  conserva- 
tion needs,  is  the  source  of  much  mischief.  The  desire  to  get 
a  road  of  given  dimensions  through  an  area  at  the  lowest 
possible  cost  often  leads  to  cruel  sacrifice  of  our  resources. 
The  Black  Hills  of  South  Dakota  once  had  hundreds  of 
trout  streams;  highway  construction  has  destroyed  all  but 

160  miles  of  them. 

Congress  would  have  us  believe  that  the  solution  to  our 
problem  is  just  a  matter  of  money  and  legislation,  that 
people  and  business  are  the  main  offenders.  Actually,  the 
government  as  a  body  is  an  equal  partner  in  this  crime  of 
pollution. 

Government  owned  and  operated  facilities  pollute  our 
land,  air,  and  water.  In  1965,  Federal  installations  dis- 
charged 46  million  gallons  per  day  of  untreated  sewage 
directly  into  surface  water  or  on  the  ground.  Radioactive 
waste  from  uranium  ore  mills  is  becoming  a  serious 
problem.  These  are  operated  by  the  government.  Early  in 
1970  there  was  a  great  deal  of  concern  over  buried  tanks 
full  of  radioactive  waste  on  the  West  Coast.  Apparently  the 
decision  has  been  made  to  bury  this  "hot"  material  in  tanks 
underground.  The  idea  seems  reasonable  as  a  temporary 
measure  —  but  not  in  an  area  where  there  is  a  major  fault  in 
the  earth's  crust.  It  would  only  take  a  little  shifting  of  the 
earth  to  rupture  these  tanks  and  spill  the  radioactivity  into 
the  earth  and  ground  water.  In  1958  the  Animas  River  in 
New  Mexico  and  Colorado  was  found  to  be  running  at  high 
levels  of  radioactivity  from  the  mills  operated  for  the 
government  by  Vanadium  Corp.  of  America.  It  seems 
strange  that  a  government  which  can  spend  huge  sums  of 
money  to  study  peanuts  and  things  equally  trivial  is  not 
directing  its  attention  to  sponsoring  work  to  investigate 
ways  and  means  to  dispose  of  or  neutralize  radioactive 
materials.  Here  is  a  good  example  of  lobbyists  at  work.  We 
seem  to  be  more  interested  in  peanuts  than  in  the  best 
interests  of  our  country. 

There  are  now  better  than  30  different  federal  agencies 
and  commissions  concerned  with  water.  Some  of  these  are 
staring  at  the  same  problem  but  from  different  angles. 
There  are  some  interested  in  draining  farmland  and  swamps, 
Bothers  are  interested  in  irrigation  and  flooding.  Sometimes 
they  are  working  on  the  same  geographic  area.  With  these 
diametrically  opposed  postures  and  the  top-heavy  bureauc- 
racy, we  find  the  government  cannot  pull  itself  together 
and  move.  It  simply  stares  or  debates. 

In  1908,  President  Theodore  Roosevelt  said  that  the 
needs  of  river  improvement  should  be  met  without  further 
delay.  Here  we  are  in  1971  still  dilly-dallying  and  talking.  In 
this  6  3 -year  period  we  have  proceeded  to  almost  hopelessly 
pollute  our  rivers  and  streams.  Our  presidents  all  face  the 
same  problem  and  their  reactions  have  been  almost  uni- 
versally the  same:  appoint  an  advisory  committee.  The 
committees  usually  suggest  appointment  of  other  commit- 
tees, to  review  and  criticize  the  other  reports.  More 
high-paying  jobs,   more  talk   and   paper   with  no  action. 

IE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Maybe  part  of  our  solution  would  be  to  devise  some  means 
to  control  the  birth  rate  of  government  committees. 

Vote-hungry  opposing  politicians  will  promise  and  fight 
for  the  moon  if  they  feel  it  will  gain  them  votes.  Pork-barrel 
legislation  and  "function"  blinded  government  agencies  are 
at  the  heart  of  our  problem.  Some  politicians  seem  to  be  in 
Congress  for  only  one  thing:  to  perpetuate  themselves 
rather  than  to  work  for  a  better  nation.  Somehow  these 
men  must  be  weeded  out.  If  the  resources  expended  on 
wasteful  government  projects  and  studies  were  diverted  for 
pollution  abatement  and  control,  I  feel  that  the  additional 
cost  to  the  nation  for  an  effective  anti-pollution  campaign 
would  be  nominal. 

With  the  problem  before  us,  it  is  a  shame  to  see  billions 
of  dollars  being  spent  on  projects  for  purely  political, 
almost  frivolous  reasons.  The  Garrison-Diversion  project  of 
1965  is  a  good  example.  This  is  strictly  an  agricultural  deal 
to  divert  water  from  the  Missouri  river  to  irrigate  250,000 
acres  of  mostly  "class  3"  land  in  North  Dakota  at  a  cost 
of  $250  million.  This  is  the  poorest  land  considered  for 
irrigation.  What  does  it  mean  on  a  single  farm  basis?  On  a 
320  acre  farm,  which  is  the  maximum  amount  allowed 
under  irrigation  regulations  to  a  man  and  wife,  this  would 
require  spending  $256,000.  This  is  enough  to  give  an 
$8,000  gift  each  year  for  30  years  with  the  man  and  wife 
doing  nothing.  Actually  the  government  would  save  if  they 
gave  the  money  rather  than  irrigate  because  they  would 
then  not  have  to  pay  other  farmers  to  not  grow  the  same 
crops. 

Another  example  is  the  Frying  Pan  water  diversion 
project  in  Colorado  to  cost  $170  million.  This  project  is  for 
irrigation  to  increase  the  alfalfa  crop  of  Colorado.  This  is 
just  more  waste  because  there  are  about  a  million  acres  of 
alfalfa  in  the  soil  bank  that  no  one  is  allowed  to  cut.  It 
should  also  be  noted  that  alfalfa  is  a  notorious  water  hog. 

And  then  there  is  the  Arkansas  River  navigation  project, 
to  cost  $1.4  billion.  This  would  be  to  build  navigable  canals 
through  an  area  where  the  soil  is  extremely  fragile  and  will 
cause  silting.  This  project  was  justified  on  the  basis  of  a 
faulty  cost:  benefits  ratio.  Projected  barge  traffic  in  canned 
meat  of  12  times  the  then-present  total  barge  traffic  plus  a 
large  amount  for  increase  in  the  Arkansas  canned  fruit 
business  were  used  on  the  plus  side  of  the  cost:  benefits 
ratio.  Arkansas  has  no  canned  fruit  business  and  has  no 
plans  for  one.  Also,  this  type  of  project  is  usually  evaluated 
on  a  50-year  usable  life  basis.  This  one  was  evaluated  on  the 
basis  of  100  years.  Somebody  really  wanted  this  project; 
maybe  he  has  plans  for  cornering  the  canned  fruit  market  in 
Arkansas. 

In  the  mid-1960's  $41  million  was  spent  to  build  a 
deep-water  canal  to  nowhere  in  San  Francisco.  It  was 
promoted  to  provide  more  dockage  in  the  bay  area. 
Actually  what  is  needed  are  more  dockage  fees  in  San 
Francisco  bay  itself. 

Walter  Judd  of  Minnesota  used  to  brag  about  wheedling 
$30.3  million  from  the  federal  government  for  dams  and 


locks  to  hike  the  water  of  Saint  Anthony's  Falls  in 
Minnesota  for  a  purpose  that  defies  detection. 

The  role  of  the  federal  government  is  weak  and 
confused.  In  addition  to  the  waste  and  spoilage  caused  by 
many  of  their  projects,  the  many  tentacles  of  the  bureau- 
cratic federal  octopus  seem  to  be  working  against  one 
another  rather  than  together. 

The  public  health  service  traced  a  huge  fish  kill  in  the 
Mississippi  River  in  1960  to  DDT  and  similar  pesticides. 
The  secretary  of  agriculture  took  the  stand  that  the  farmer 
was  not  the  culprit.  He  found  it  easy  to  imply  that 
industrial  waste,  not  pesticides,  was  the  main  cause  and 
stated  that  if  any  pesticides  did  kill  any  fish  it  was  due  to 
the  mistakes  of  the  manufacturer.  Here  we  find  the 
Department  of  Agriculture,  the  Department  of  Health, 
Education  and  Welfare,  and  the  Department  of  Interior 
paralyzed,  each  spending  huge  sums  on  endless  investiga- 
tions to  clear  their  own  special  interest. 


The  Army  Corps  of  Engineers  has  a  mania  for  building 
hydroelectric  installations.  Many  of  these  cannot  be 
economically  justified  for  power  production  and  unless 
they  can  be  shown  to  be  flood  preventative  in  nature,  they 
represent  river  destruction  rather  then  conservation. 

For  180  miles  east  of  Fort  Benton,  Montana,  the  upper 
Missouri  now  flows  as  it  did  back  when  Lewis  and  Clark 
made  their  way  upstream.  The  Corps  of  engineers  is  now 
proposing  that  a  $243  million  dam  be  built  to  permit 
production  of  hydroelectric  power.  The  cost  per  kilowatt 
hour  would  exceed  that  of  a  conventional  steam  instal- 
lation. The  project  is  being  justified  on  the  basis  of  its 


added  capability  of  flood  prevention  and  control.  This 
seems  strange  because  there  has  been  no  past  history  of 
flooding  in  the  area  or  downstream.  Wasted  money?  Maybe. 

The  National  Park  Service  has  water  values  in  its  charge. 
The  Bureau  of  Reclamation  is  working  to  get  a  fluctuating 
reservoir  into  the  Kings  Canyon  National  Park  as  well  as 
dams  in  the  Dinosaur  National  movement.  If  these  are  put 
through,  our  national  parks  will  be  grievously  damaged. 

Repeated  conflict  has  prevailed  between  various  federal 
agencies  each  with  a  selfish  motive. 

Recently  a  Federal  air  pollution  team  visited  here  at 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute.  The  statement  has  been 
made  that  this  group  was  interested  only  in  air  pollution  — 
not  land,  water,  or  any  other  kind  of  pollution.  This  is 
ridiculous,  but  typical  of  the  government  approach.  The 
problems  of  pollution  are  not  separate.  A  systerns  approach 
is  required.  The  air,  water,  and  land  pollution  problems  are 
all  interrelated.  Disposal  of  solid  waste  can  cause  air  and 
land  pollution,  and  reduction  of  air  pollution  can  lead  to 
water  and  land  pollution. 

The  outfit  wielding  the  most  power  and  persuasion,  the 
biggest  staff  and  best  organized  lobby  gets  its  way. 
Powerful  lobbies  in  Congress  are  interested  in  promoting 
federal  spending  for  their  special  fields.  I  wonder  if,  as  they 
are  presently  set  up,  lobbies  operate  in  the  best  interest  of 
the  country  as  a  whole. 

Two  of  the  most  powerful  lobbies  in  Congress  are  the 
Rivers  and  Harbors  Congress,  which  is  an  outside  of 
government  torch  carrier  for  the  Corps  of  Engineers,  and 
the  National  Reclamation  Association  which  does  the  same 
for  the  Reclamation  Bureau.  They  are  dedicated  to  promot- 
ing the  type  of  operations  of  these  two  Federal  Agencies 
with  slight  regard  for  others. 

The  tendency  in  this  machine  age  on  federal,  state,  and 
local  levels  often  seems  to  be  to  wipe  out  every  acre  of 
original  wilderness.  And  with  modern  machines  and  atomic 
explosives  to  remake  the  face  of  the  earth,  the  meadows, 
the  swamps,  the  wooded  alcove,  and  their  inhabitants  must 
surrender.  This  must  stop. 

Walden  Pond,  made  famous  by  Thoreau  was  given  to 
Massachusetts  in  trust  to  preserve  in  perpetuity.  Today  it  is 
no  peaceful  pool  but  a  bathing  beach.  Across  the  road  are 
hot  dog  stands  and  trailer  camps.  The  commissioners  in 
charge  of  it  planned  further  "improvements"  such  as 
concrete  ramps  for  the  beach,  re-shaping  the  pond  and 
constructing  concrete  bath  houses.  Fortunately  the 
Supreme  Court  of  Massachusetts  stopped  these  "improve- 
ments." But  if  the  bureaucrats  had  their  way  we  would 
have  lost  another  scenic  treasure. 

Staten  Island,  home  of  the  260-acrc  Davis  wildlife 
refuge  is  being  developed  as  a  result  of  the  easy  access 
provided  by  the  Verrazaro-Narrows  Bridge.  The  wildlife  is 
gradually  being  choked  out.  The  Bureau  of  Reclamation  has 
blocked  off  free  passage  of  ocean  water  to  the  marshes  in 
the  area  and  water-fowl  will  not  live  in  a  stagnant  place. 

Our  federal  policies  arc  inconsistent.  We  spend  millions 
acquiring  the  Everglades,  a  swamp  national  park  in  Florida 


THE  WPI  JOURNA 


whose  very  existence  depends  on  the  flow  of  sweet  water. 
We  then  spend  more  millions  in  drawing  down  that  sweet 
water  to  serve  other  interests,  thereby  jeopardizing  the 
park. 

Resource  management  and  unification  of  effort  are 
sadly  lacking  in  our  present  arrangement.  Two  good 
examples  of  what  can  be  done  come  from  Europe. 

The  Ruhr  Association  was  formed  of  all  communities 
on  the  Ruhr  River.  Here,  they  have  established  effective 
control  of  pollution  rather  than  trying  to  establish  stand- 
ards or  treatment  requirements  and  trying  to  enforce  them. 
The  plan  is  that  every  town  and  industrial  plant  be  charged 
a  stiff  levy  or  tax,  proportional  to  the  amount  of  pollution 
they  deliver  to  the  river.  The  assay  is  based  on  the 
biomedical  oxygen  demand,  which  is  a  measure  of  the 
capability  of  a  given  stream  to  clean  itself.  We  now  find 
that  the  Ruhr  basin  has  cleaned  itself  up. 

The  other  case  is  in  Essen,  Germany.  The  solid  waste  is 
dried,  included  with  the  city's  normal  garbage  and  used  as 
Fuel  in  a  power  plant. 

Last  year  plans  were  unveiled  for  a  joint  study  project 
between  the  government  and  industry.  This  is  a  step  in  the 
right  direction.  This  project  is  to  design  and  build  a  unique 
for  America)  power  plant  at  General  Electric,  Lynn  River 
Works.  The  project  is  to  be  executed  by  General  Electric 
with  the  Cooperation  of  the  City  of  Lynn  and  the  U.S. 
Health,  Education  and  Welfare  Department.  It  will  look 
into  the  practicality  of  building  a  combined  refuse- 
mcineration  and  power-generation  plant  at  the  River  Works 
to  serve  both  General  Electric  and  the  city.  The  combined 
:rash,  480,000  pounds  per  day  would  fuel  a  refuse  boiler  to 
sroduce  10,000  KW  daily.  This  would  be  trash  disposal 
with  a  return.  The  refuse  power  plant  is  designed  with 
dectronic  precipitation  and  scrubbing  devices  that  keep 
loxious  gases  and  fly  ash  from  polluting  the  air. 

We  have  a  severe  pollution  problem,  but  the  directions 
riven  up  to  now  by  the  federal  government  are  in  the  wrong 


direction.  More  money  is  not  the  answer.  First,  the 
governmental  agencies  and  bureaus  must  be  reorganized  and 
restaffed  to  work  as  a  unified  team  in  the  interest  of  the 
nation  as  a  whole,  not  in  the  interest  of  the  bureau 
involved.  Second,  industry  should  be  enlisted  as  a  partner 
with  government  to  a  greater  extent  rather  than  being 
considered  the  enemy  in  this  war  on  pollution.  Third,  we 
should  consider  new  approaches  such  as  in  Essen  and  the 
Ruhr  basin.  If  we  measure  the  tax  of  an  industry  or 
community  by  the  amount  of  pollution  emitted,  I  am  sure 
we  would  be  surprised  at  the  job  that  can  be  done  by  that 
industry  or  area. 

Finally,  our  senators  and  representatives  along  with  our 
state  and  local  officials  must  change  their  way  of  thinking. 
Self-interest  and  regional  special  interests  should  be  made 
secondary  considerations.  Legislation  is  in  some  cases 
adding  to  our  pollution  problems  and  is  wasting  tremen- 
dous sums  of  money.  That  money  used  more  wisely  can  be 
the  lion's  share  of  the  expense  of  cleaning  up  our  nation. 
We  can  win  this  war  on  pollution  and  without  the  need  for 
huge  new  government  expenditures. 

Bibliography 

1.  A  Wilderness  Bill  of  Rights.  Encyclopedia 
Britannica,  Book  of  the  year  1965 

2.  Disaster  by  Default:  Politics  and  Water 
Pollution  by  Frank  Graham,  Jr.  Published  by 
M.  Evans  &  Co.  1966 

3.  Water  or  Your  Life.  By  Arthur  H.  Carhart  J. 
B.  Lippencott  Co.  1959 

4.  Death  of  the  Sweet  Waters.  Donald  E.  Carr 
W.  W.  Norton  1966 

5.  Pamphlet:  The  Environment  in  the  70s.  A 
mission  for  Industry  in  Massachusetts,  by  Gen- 
eral Electric  Co.  April  1970 

6.  Are  We  Beginning  to  End  Pollution?  (Arti- 
cle) by  Irwin  Hersery,  In  Engineering  Oppor- 
tunities. Fall  1969  Edition 

7.  Air  and  Water  Pollution.  Gerald  Leinwand 
1969 

8.  The  Struggle  for  Clean  Water.  U.S.  Dept.  of 
Health,  Education  and  Welfare.  PHS  publica- 
tion #958  (1962) 


I* 


v»N%* 


THE  THUNDER 
AND  LIGHTNING 
OF  JOE  GOULART 

T 

-LHE  STATE  of  Rhode  Island  has  one  registered  auto- 
mobile manufacturer.  The  automobile  is  a  160-mph,  two- 
seater  sports  car;  the  manufacturer  is  Joseph  F.  Goulart, 
who  received  his  mechanical  engineering  degree  from  WPI 
in  1967.  During  the  past  five  years,  Joe  has  invested  some 
7,000  hours  of  labor  and  some  $15,000  in  parts  in  the 
construction  and  development  of  the  car.  He  calls  it  Indra, 
after  a  Hindu  god  of  thunder  and  lightning.  "It's  a 
distinctly  male  car,"  Joe  says,  "and  I  named  it  after  a 
distinctly  male  god.  I  didn't  want  to  follow  the  Detroit 
practice  and  characterize  it  as  an  animal." 

Automobile  product  development,  says  the  27-year-old 
engineer,  "is  the  only  thing  I  ever  really  wanted  to  do.  It's 
the  reason  I  came  to  WPI  after  starting  out  as  a  math  major 
at  Providence  College."  After  graduation,  Goulart  worked 
for  Wyman-Gordon  as  a  product  development  engineer  for 
three  years,  but  every  evening  and  Saturday  were  spent 
working  on  the  car.  Ten  months  ago,  Joe  quit  his  job  to 
devote  full  time  to  the  Indra's  development. 

The  car's  fiberglass  body,  painted  a  rich  metallic 
copper-brown,  was  designed  while  Joe  was  a  WPI  student. 
He  and  a  friend  put  over  1,500  hours  into  building  a  1/8 


scale  model,  which  was  wind-tunnel  tested  on  campus.  All 
the  body  construction  and  molding  were  done  by  Goulart 
himself.  Underneath  the  body  is  a  highly  modified  Corvette 
frame.  An  American  Motors  390-cubic-inch  V-8  engine  sits 
behind  the  passenger  compartment  and  is  hooked  up  to  a 
$1,500  German-made  ZF  five-speed  transaxle.  All  four 
wheels  are  independently  suspended,  with  outboard  disc 
brakes  and  8-inch-wide  radial  tires. 

The  AM  engine  seems  a  strange  choice  to  some,  but  Joe 
picked  it  for  its  light  weight  and  high  torque  as  compared 
to  other  engines  of  similar  size.  Rated  at  315  hp  in  stock 
form,  the  engine  has  been  "blueprinted"  —  rebuilt  and 
rebalanced  to  its  design  specifications  (i.e.,  before  mass- 
production  tolerances)  —  and  slightly  modified  by  Joe,  and 
there  is  ample  power  to  drive  the  3000-pound  car.  A  few 
years  ago,  the  British  Aston  Martin  —  perhaps  best  known 
to  the  general  public  as  the  car  James  Bond  drove  in  the 
film  Goldfinger  —  was  advertised  as  able  to  do  0  to  100  and 
stop  in  24  seconds.  The  Indra  will  do  the  same  in  less  than 
20  seconds. 

Top  speed  is  estimated  as  160  mph,  although  Joe  has 
only  had  the  car  up  to  140.  An  amalgam  of  highway  car 
with  the  best  current  racing  technology,  the  Indra  has  been 
compared  favorably  with  the  $18,000+  Ferrari  and  the 
$10,000  de  Tomaso  Pantera. 

The  Indra's  designer/builder  gave  the  editor  a  short  ride. 
After  settling  down  behind  the  walnut  dashboard  and 
console,  buckling  on  the  racing-type  seat  belt  and  shoulder 
harness,  the  first  thing  one  notices  is  the  lowness  of  it  all. 
You  are  literally  looking  up  at  every  other  car  on  the  road 
Then  the  engine  is  fired  up,  just  about  a  foot  behind  your 
back,  and  the  Indra  moves  out.  That  the  car  is  fast  is 
obvious  and  expected;  but  the  combination  of  lowness, 
speed,  and  the  strange  rapping  of  the  engine  behind  you 
combine  to  produce  a  visceral  experience  that  leaves  you 
wanting  more. 

The  car  is  awesomely  stable,  whether  going  straight  or 
cornering  at  what  seem  impossible  speeds;  it  is  probably 
more  stable,  certainly  "safer"  and  more  mancuverable,  at 
85  than  the  average  American  passenger  car  is  at  25.  During 


THE  WPI  JOURN4 


the  ride,  Joe  explained  how  he  tried  five  different  sets  of 
front  springs,  three  sets  of  rear  springs,  as  well  as 
adjustments  on  the  Koni  shock  absorbers,  before  arriving  at 
the  present  set-up.  With  its  mid-engine  location,  the  car 
carries  54  percent  of  its  weight  on  the  rear  wheels,  an 
important  factor  in  its  precise  handling. 

The  ride  also  pointed  up  one  of  the  few  shortcomings 
of  the  Indra:  low  ground  clearance  and  limited  suspension 
travel,  combined  with  the  stiff  springing  and  ultra-low- 
profile  tires,  make  crossing  railroad  tracks  and  bumps  a 
painful  experience.  It  doesn't  hurt  and  isn't  physically 
uncomfortable,  mind,  but  the  sudden  shock  as  the  suspen- 
sion comes  up  against  its  stops  produces  a  sound  and  feeling 
that  is  unnerving  at  first.  But  in  spite  of  all  this,  the  Indra  is 
impressively  rattle-free. 

On  the  first  model  —  there  has  been  so  much 
development  work  in  the  past  year  that  Joe  now  calls  it  the 
Mk.  2  version  —  a  curious  problem  came  to  light. 
Transmission  fluid  was  dripping  on  the  driver's  left  foot, 
despite  the  fact  that  the  engine  is  behind  the  driver  and  the 
gearbox  behind  the  engine.  It  seems  that  the  fluid  was 
running  up  the  14-foot-long  speedometer  cable,  and  after 
the  speedometer  filled  up  the  fluid  leaked  out  and  onto  the 
foot!  Now  the  car  has  a  custom-built  electronic  speedome- 
ter (with  a  million-mile  odometer)  which  is  guaranteed  by 
its  Worcester  manufacturer  (Barbour-Stockwell)  for 
200,000  miles. 

Joe  seems  to  have  been  the  first  person  to  attempt  to 
register  an  independently  built  automobile  in  Rhode  Island, 
and  no  one  at  the  Registry  of  Motor  Vehicles  knew  what  to 
do  with  his  application.  He  was  passed  up  the  ladder  until 
he  was  finally  given  permission  to  assign  the  car  a  serial 
number  himself.  The  registrar  explained  that  serial  numbers 


are  usually  coded  to  show  such  things  as  country  and  date 
of  manufacture,  body  style,  etc.  So  Joe  put  together  a 
serial-number  code  so  complete  it  even  indicated  the  type 
of  camshaft  in  the  engine.  Unfortunately,  this  15-digit 
number  was  too  long  for  the  RMV's  computer,  which  could 
only  cope  with  13  digits.  Joe  calmly  pulled  the  application 
back  and  crossed  off  the  first  three  digits.  "The  chief 
investigator's  mouth  dropped,"  remembers  Goulart,  "but 
the  letter  I  had  from  the  registrar  was  authorization  enough 
to  satisfy  the  requirements."  The  car's  license  plate  reads, 
fittingly,  INDRA. 

Even  the  name  represents  a  bit  of  a  problem  now.  Joe 
has  been  working  on  Indra  for  some  five  years.  You  can 
imagine  his  surprise  when  the  Italian  firm  of  Intermeccanica 
announced  this  spring  it  was  marketing  a  sports  car  (with 
Opel  running  gear)  called  the  Indra.  Until  and  unless  the 
European  version  is  sold  in  the  United  States,  there  will 
continue  to  be  two  different  cars  called  Indra. 

Goulart  would  like  to  sell  the  car  and  build  more;  all  he 
needs  is  a  buyer.  He  had  someone  lined  up,  but  the 
would-be  purchaser  had  to  back  out  when  his  own  business 
was  hit  hard  by  the  economic  slump.  Joe's  future  plans  are 
indefinite.  He  would  like  to  remain  in  automotive  product 
development,  and  has  talked  with  certain  of  the  auto 
manufacturers,  but  things  are  still  up  in  the  air. 

There  are  few  graduate  engineers  around  who  would  be 
capable  of  building  a  car  such  as  the  Indra  alone.  Still  fewer 
of  those  who  could  would  even  begin  such  a  project.  But 
Indra  has  been  the  focal  point  of  Joe  Goulart's  life  to  date, 
and  every  detail  of  the  car  reflects  the  care  and  determina- 
tion of  the  builder.  Joe  refers  to  the  car  as  his  "three- 
dimensional  PhD.  .  .  Even  if  it  were  to  burn  down  tomor- 
row —  and  it  isn't  insured  against  that  —  I  would  still  feel 
that  it  was  worth  it,  and  I  would  do  it  all  over  again." 


IE  WPI  JOURNAL 


i nei  lexi iuu Tear/  p  ct  i  £ 

iCENCE  &TECHNIQUES  OF  CASTING  ^  §  §  3    Is 

Diomedical  instrumentation    -^  eS  I  2  G 

Air  Pollution  Measurements   0  0  si 

Block  Consciousness  si 

RACliOACTiVE  TRACER  Techniques 

THE  EARTH'S  CORE 


<7^7y  §fegt&yiggWte;tyl 


5/5 


LU 


(<r> 


I    STistoricol  Equipment   |  R 

-  * — i  Microscopic  Concepts  from  a  ULIIill   U  I  L1 1 

2Us    macroscopic     f     PERIPHERALS  ^ 

J  5  .§  viewpoint  /  H* 

i  ^  ,VJ0V  Ca    U,PI     3  H 


21      BjiH 


taINeerin, 


1  moUN  1  AII^E-HRIng   8 

S*   WINTER  EXPEDITION     Q 

Analvzin?  Football  I 


^ 


INTERSESSION  1972 


An  integral  part  of  the  WPI  academic  year,  Intersession  represents  a  bold  new  addition  to  WPI's  offerings. 
Furthermore,  participation  is  not  limited  to  WPI  students  but  is  open  to  the  interested  public.  A  special 
Alumni  Discount  rate  has  been  arranged  to  enable  alumni  to  pursue  their  interests  and  return  to  the  WPI 
campus. 

Intersession  is  intended  to  be  an  educational  experience  of  broad  scope,  wherein  participants  may  take 
short  courses  designed  to  further  their  professional  competence,  advance  their  avocational  interests,  offer 
intellectual  enrichment,  or  provide  personal  enjoyment.  During  the  three-week  period,  some  students  may 
wish  to  pursue  related  topics  while  others  sample  experiences  from  totally  different  categories. 

Many  Intersession  courses  carry  optional  credit  (1  credit  hour  per  course,  with  additional  work 
required). 

Most  courses  will  be  presented  in  concentrated,  three-day  sessions  starting  Tuesday  mornings  and 
ending  Thursday  afternoons  with  evening  sessions  on  Tuesday  and  Wednesday  evenings.  Some  courses  have 
different  schedules,  however,  so  be  sure  to  check  the  official  course  description.  Many  courses  have  limited 
enrollment,  and  these  are  filled  on  a  first-come  first-served  basis.  If  you  are  interested,  be  sure  and  inquire 
NOW. 

A  few  course  descriptions  are  given  below.  In  each  case,  the  letter  A,  B,  or  C  indicates  the  week  the 
course  is  offered.  (A-January  11-13;  B-January  18-20;  C-January  25-27.)  An  asterisk  (*)  indicates  that  the 
course  is  available  for  credit.  On  the  reverse  side  of  this  page,  a  complete  listing  of  all  course  titles  for  each 
week  is  given.  If  you  want  more  details  on  any  courses,  just  send  in  the  coupon  indicating  the  numbers  of 
the  courses  in  which  you  are  interested. 

REMEMBER;  January  11-13,  18-20,  25-27 

The  regular  non-WPI-student  rate  is  $110.00.  For  alumni,  the  price  is  only  $75.00  for  the 
first  course.  (For  certain  courses,  an  extra  fee  to  cover  special  materials  and/or 
transportation  is  assessed  all  participants.) 


Here  is  just  one  example  of  the  exciting 
and  interesting  courses  offered: 


C247* 

FINANCING  AND  MANAGING  A  BUSINESS 

Mancuso,  Hazzard,  Onorato,  Schwieger,  Zwiep,  Bradley  E. 
Hosmer  (Marketing  Action  Group,  Inc.)  and  represent- 
atives of  venture  capital  firms,  the  banking  industry, 
management  consultants.  Chamber  of  Commerce, 
Small  Business  Administration  and  a  number  of 
presidents  of  small  businesses. 

For:  Students  and  businessmen 

Purpose:  To  explore  the  problems  and  solutions  of  starting, 

financing  and  managing  a  small  business. 
Advance  Preparation  Expected: 

Reading  list  available  from  Prof.  Mancuso 
Credit  Work  Required:    Outside  reading 
Limit:  25  students,  50  businessmen 

Extra  Fee:      Meals  for  students  who  desire  to  dine  with  the  group 

on  Wand  Th. 
Schedule:        Tu  —  student  participants:  special  orientation  on  small 

business  operations,  8:00  am-9:00  pm 

W  — all  participants:  How  to  Finance  a  Small  Business, 

9: 00a  m-5 :00pm 

E  WPI  JOURNAL 


Please  send  me  information  on  the  following  courses: 


address. 


city. 


please  use  ZIP  code 


THE  FUTURE 

A214*  The  next  hundred  years 

ENGINEERING 
General 

ABC201  *        Fundamentals  of  fluidics 

B219*  Introduction  to  systems  engineering 

concepts 
ABC202  Refresher  course  for  EIT  examination 

B220  Remedial  and  basic  DC  and  AC  circuits 

A215*  Survey  of  control  engineering 


Biomedical 

B221  *  Biomedical  instrumentation 

C21 1  Hospital  safety  workshop 

C212*  Use  of  brain  waves  (EEG)  in 

behaviorai  studies 


Computer  Applications  and  Languages 

AB21 1  *  BASIC  programming 

C213*  Computer  peripherals 

B222*  Computer  simulation  of  physical 

systems 
C214  Hybrid  computation  use  of  EAI-680 

and  PDP-7 
A216*  Integrated  civil  engineering 

systems  (ICES) 
A21 7  Introductory  analog  computer 

programming 
BC214*  List  processing  with  SNOBOL 

A218  Management  information  systems 

B223*  Mini  computers 

Design 

C21 5  Cam  design 

A219  The  engineering  product  design 

process 
C216*  Mechanical  design  synthesis  with 

industrial  examples 


Processes 

A230* 


B236* 


Industrial  separation  and  recovery 
of  natural  salts 

Less  common  separation  techniques 
in  chemical  engineering 


Ecology  and 

C217* 
B224 

A220* 

B225* 
B226* 
C218 

A221* 

C219* 
B227* 
A203*,B203 


Electronics 

A222 
C220 

B228* 
C221 


B229 


B230* 
B231* 


Materials 
A223* 

BC215* 

A224" 
A225* 
B232* 
A226* 
A227* 
B233* 

Nuclear 

A228" 

B234 
A229 

Power  Syster 

B235 

C222 


Resource  Management 

Air  pollution  measurements 
Community  impact  of  large  scale 
civil  engineering  works 
Control  of  environmental  sound 
and  noise 

Environmental  problems 
Industrial  waste  treatment 
New  approaches  to  residential 
development 

Problems  of  urban  housing 
Solid  waste  management 
Theology  encounters  ecology 
*,C203*      Urban  car  development 


Basic  electronic  circuits 

Design  and  testing  of  M.F. 

directional  antenna  arrays 

High  quality  reproduction  of  sound 

Introduction  to  microwaves  and 

antennas 

Radio  communications  for  the 

amateur 

Television 

Topics  in  semiconductor  physics 

with  laboratory  demonstrations 


Experimental  stress  analysis 

workshop 

Introduction  to  materials 

processing 

Linear  viscoelasticity 

Photoelasticity 

Rheology  of  fluids 

Science  and  techniques  of  casting 

Techniques  of  analysis  for  defects 

X-ray  diffraction  analysis 

Nuclear  power  reactor  siting 
considerations 
Nuclear  technology 
Radioactive  tracer  techniques 
and  counting  procedures 

is 

Basic  applications  of  motors 
Power  generation  and  its  future 

'Available  for  credit 


INSTRUMENTATION 

A231  Electronic  distance  measuring 

instruments 
A232*  Fluid  metering 

C223*  Instrumentation  for  materials 

processing  applications 
C224*  Nuclear  magnetic  resonance  spectroscopy 

C225*  Organic  chromatographic  techniques 

A233  Practical  infrared  spectroscopy 

B237*  Use  of  chromatography  and  mass 

spectrometry 


SCIENCE 

Chemistry  and  Biology 

A234*  Chemistry  in  agriculture 

(or.  How  does  your  garden  grow?) 
A236*  Interpretation  of  phase  diagrams 

C226*  Morphological  crystallography 

B238*  Phase  equilibria  in  multi-component 

systems 
C227*  Qualitative  inorganic  analysis 

ABC204*        Qualitative  organic  analysis 
C228*  Scientific  principles  exemplified 

Earth  Sciences 

B239*  Clay  minerals 

BC216*  Earth  science  field  studies 

A236  The  earth's  core 

Mathematics 

C229 

B240* 

C230 
C231* 
B241* 
C232 

BC217* 

A237 
BC218* 


Game  theory 

A  geometric  study  of  the  real 
number  system 
Introduction  to  logic 
Introduction  to  number  theory 
Introduction  to  stability  theory 
Lattices,  logic  and  the  algebra 
of  switches 

Preparation  for  and  attendance 
at  mathematical  seminars 
Theory  of  Markov  processes 
Topics  in  applied  mathematics 


Physics  and  Astronomy 


B242* 

B243 

B244 

C233* 
B245 


A238 

C234* 

C235* 

C236 

C237* 

A239* 
A240 


Celestial  navigation 

Introduction  to  holography 

Investigation  of  a  pulsed  ruby 

laser 

Light  and  color 

Linear  and  non-linear  processes 

using  lasers:  introduction  to  some  uses 

of  coherence  properties  of  laser  light  in 

modern  technology 

Microscopic  concepts  from  a 

macroscopic  viewpoint 

Nuclear  activation  as  a 

nondestructive  method  of  analysis 

Observational  astronomy 

Physics  of  toys 

Principles  and  applications  of 

magnetism 

Special  relativity 

Vacuum  evaporation  and  thin  film 

techniques 


HUMANITIES 
Art 

B246*  Drawing  from  the  nude 

C238*  Looking  at  prints 

AB212  Modern  dance:  explorations 

in  movement 

Drama 

C239*  A  dramatic  production:  the  Tudor 

interlude 
A241  ■  Historical  figures  and  their 

portrayals  compared  in  drama 
History 
C240" 
B247" 
B248 
A242" 


Crisis 

Duty  and  dissent:  the  Mexican  War 
Isolationism  between  the  wars 
Technology  and  the  community: 
Old  Sturbridge  Village       a  case  study 
in  social  history 
A205\B205\C205\      WPI  archives  and  historical 
equipment 


Literature 

C241* 

A243* 
B249* 
A244* 
A245* 


Music 

A246 
B250 
A247 

A251 

C242 


C243 
A248 


The  English  novelette  and  the  traditior 

of  the  mystery  tale 

Fiction  into  films 

Introduction  to  playwriting 

Tolkien 

Wilderness  and  the  American  mind: 

an  ecological  view  of 

American  literature 

Choral  singing 

Electronic  music 

Ensemble  recorder  playing  of 

Baroque  and  Renaissance  music 

Melodic  structure  of  Indian 

classical  music 

The  role  of  acoustics  in  the 

production  and  sustaining 

of  a  musical  sound 

The  St.  Louis  Quartet 

Symphonic  workshop 


Philosophy  and  Ethics 

A249*  The  art  of  dying 

C244*  The  creative  imagination  in 

philosophy  and  poetry 
A250*  Ethics  of  the  "unethical" 

A206*,B206\C206*      Relevance  of  religion 

to  choice,  freedom  and 

responsibility 
B252  Science  and  social  responsibility 

A251  *  Sex  and  society 

C245*  What  is  science? 


SOCIAL  SCIENCES 
Economics  and  Law 

B253  Economics  of  power  systems 

A252*  Engineering  economy 

B254*  Legal  topics  for  engineers 

C246*  You  and  your  money 

Management  Techniques 
C247*  Small  business 

Sociology  and  Psychology 

A253  Black  consciousness 

A254*  Child  development:  the  making 

of  a  scientist 
A255*  Creative  group  problems 

B255*  Living  in  a  commune 

B256  Some  psychology  for  today 


ETCETERA 

C248  Analyzing  football 

A256  Astronomic  mirror  grinding  and 

telescope  making 
ABC207*  Auto  mechanics 
B257  Bachelor  cooking:  survival  to 

gourmet 
B258  Basketball  in  depth 

A257  Building  and  maintaining  a  home: 

carpentry,  plumbing  and  wiring 
B259  Career  development 

C249*  Careers  in  teaching 

B260  Construction  of  harpsichords 

and  clavichords 
C250"  Creative  color  photography 

C251  Glass  blowing  and  vacuum  techniques 

ABC208  Preparation  of  TV  tapes  showing 

lab  technique 
C252  Rifle  marksmanship 

B261  *  Scientific  and  technical  aspects 

of  the  photographic  process 
A258  Seminar  on  current  campus  research    ] 

projects 
AB213  Senior  life  saving 


A209.B209,C209       Skiing  for  beginners 


C253 


B262' 


C254 
B263 
A210*.B210 


10 


Technical  material  in  written  form: 
searching,  organizing  &  preparing 
Urban  simulation  gaming:  operation 
and  evaluation 

Winter  mountaineering  expedition 
Winter  mountaineering  workshop 
\C210*      Worcester  Science  Center 
projects 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


WPI  GLEE  CLUB  TOUR  OF  ENGLAND 


On    March    30,    1971,   members   of  the 

Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  Glee  Club 

and  the  WPI  Brass  Choir  left  Worcester 

I  for  a  12-day  concert  tour  of  England.  At 

la  short  ceremony  at  City  Hall,  the  key  to 

Ilthe  city  of  Worcester  and  letters  of 
[greeting  from  heads  of  government  in 
Worcester  and  Shrewsbury  were  given  to 

I  [the  groups  for  presentation  to  officials  of 
[their  sister  cities  in  England.  The  group 
then  left  by  bus  for  Boston's  Logan 
Airport  and  flew  to  London.  Under  the 
direction  of  Prof.  Louis  J.  Curran,  WPI 
musical  director,  concerts  were  given  in 
Oxford,  Worcester,  London,  Cambridge, 
and  Shrewsbury.  The  group  returned  on 
April  12  in  time  to  resume  classes  after 
the  spring  vacation. 

The  trip  was  funded  through  the 
:ollege's  annual  budget  allotted  to  musi- 
:al  organizations,  by  a  member-sponsored 
affle,  and  by  the  use  of  individuals' 
personal  funds.  Working  closely  in  plan- 
ling  the  tour  and  aiding  Prof.  Curran 
were  John  Minasian,  '72,  Glee  Club  presi- 
dent; Robert  Byrne,  '71,  tour  manager; 
David  Moonaw,  '73,  treasurer;  and  Dr. 
Thomas  Edwards  of  the  chemistry  dept., 
ftvho  sang  in  the  Glee  Club  bass  section 
ind  helped  in  preparing  some  of  the 
lingers. 

The  timing  of  the  tour  during  the 
Christian  Holy  Week  enabled  the  group  to 

THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


provide  music  for  week-day  Anglican 
masses  in  Oxford  and  Shrewsbury,  a  Palm 
Sunday  mass  at  Worcester  Cathedral,  and 
Catholic  and  Anglican  masses  on  Easter 
Sunday  in  Cambridge.  The  "Missa  Mater 
Patris"  by  Josquin  des  Pres,  a  15th 
century  composition  in  Latin  was  meticu- 
lously prepared  for  these  occasions.  Its 
performance  was  a  great  success  in 
Worcester,  where  the  local  newspaper 
lauded  the  American  collegians.  The  re- 
citals and  concerts  also  included  other 
sacred  works  as  well  as  secular  pieces 
from  around  the  world. 

The  highlight  of  the  tour  was  the 
Palm  Sunday  mass  followed  by  an  after- 
noon recital  at  Worcester  Cathedral,  an 
awesome  structure  that  was  begun  in  the 
eleventh  century.  The  day  included  a 
prelude  to  the  mass,  starting  a  sponsored 
fund-raising  walk  for  the  church  renova- 
tion fund,  played  by  the  WPI  Brass  Choir 
atop  the  high  bell  tower  of  the  cathedral. 
A  combination  of  wind,  ringing  bells,  and 
jittery  nerves  made  the  event  quite  excit- 
ing for  the  brassmen.  Among  those  in 
attendance  was  England's  Minister  of  the 
Environment,  who  was  on  hand  to  start 
the  walk. 

The  singers  and  players  had  some 
time  between  concerts  and  traveling  to 
make  private  tours  of  their  own.  Being 
based  in  hotels  on  the  outskirts  of  Lon- 


don, in  Blackheath,  was  an  excellent 
opportunity  for  many  to  take  day  trips 
into  the  city.  London,  like  most  large 
cities,  cannot  be  seen  in  just  a  few  days, 
and  it  was  difficult  to  budget  the  free 
time  available.  Others  ventured  to  distant 
points  of  interest,  via  car  and  train,  such 
as  Stonehenge,  Canterbury,  Dover,  and 
north  to  Scotland.  Some  were  able  to 
visit  with  relatives.  Fred  Kolack,  a  sopho- 
more member  of  the  Glee  Club,  traveled 
all  the  way  to  Germany  for  a  family 
reunion. 

The  caliber  of  music  at  WPI  has 
certainly  changed  in  recent  years.  The 
tour  was  the  climax  of  a  very  successful 
year  in  which  the  Glee  Club  and  Brass 
Choir  gave  several  other  fine  concerts. 
Much  credit  can  be  given  to  an  imagina- 
tive and  capable  director,  Prof.  Louis 
Curran.  Both  of  the  groups  are  now 
attracting  some  very  fine  talent,  and  hope 
to  make  more  tours  of  this  magnitude  in 
future  years.  With  the  new  direction  of 
education  at  WPI,  the  aims  of  the  musical 
organizations  and  the  college  should  com- 
plement each  other  well  in  the  years  to 
come.  Ask  any  member  of  this  year's  tour 
how  much  he  learned  about  other  people 
and  cultures  as  a  result  of  this  trip.  Let's 
all  join  in  giving  our  support  and  wishing 
them  the  best  of  luck  in  the  future. 

Robert  M.  Byrne,  '71 


11 


SATISFACTION 

Director  of  Athletics  Robert  Pritchard 
stated  that  during  1970-71,  WPI's  athletic 
teams  enjoyed  their  greatest  year  in  mod- 
ern athletics.  Over  all  sports,  64%  of 
contests  were  won. 

SOCCER 

Coach  Alan  King's  men  will  be  defending 
their  divisional  college  championship, 
which  they  took  last  year  with  a  9-1-1 
record. 

King  is  hopeful  of  repeating  the  tri- 
umph, but  he  notes  that  he  will  have  to 
reorganize  his  defense  due  to  the  gradua- 
tion in  June  of  Ail-American  Lionel  St. 
Victor  and  All-New-England  Tim 
Rooney.  Sophomores  Steve  Williams  and 
Bucky  Kashiwa  are  expected  to  carry  the 
load. 

FOOTBALL 

With  18  lettermen  returning,  Coach  Mel 
Massucco  faces  the  season  with  experi- 
ence in  most  positions.  The  Engineers' 
usual  problem,  lack  of  depth,  is  still 
around,  but  for  the  first  time  this  year 
Freshmen  are  eligible  for  varsity  football, 
and  this  should  help  out  considerably. 

Graduation  took  its  toll,  and  offen- 
sive captain  Mike  Santora,  fullback  Scott 
Dineen,  guards  Trent  Germano  and  Leo 
Gillis,  and  center  Jim  Fay  will  all  have  to 
be  replaced.  Last  year's  offensive  back- 
field,  sparked  by  quarterback  Steve 
Joseph  and  halfbacks  Charlie  Deschenes 
and  Wayne  Pitts  will  be  returning.  Coach 
Massucco  is  hopeful  that  Murray  Glazier, 
who  showed  a  great  deal  of  promise  last 
year,  will  fill  in  at  fullback,  but  he  will 
have  competition  from  sophomores  Gene 
Dejacome  and  Gary  Velozo. 


Last  year's  offensive  line  had  sopho- 
mores Don  Moquin,  Bruce  Beverly,  and 
Tom  Cawley,  who  will  be  carrying  the 
load  this  season.  Jimmy  Buell,  who 
missed  last  year  because  of  a  shoulder 
injury,  will  be  back  at  end;  he  is  an 
outstanding  pass  receiver.  Junior  Bill 
Cormier  will  be  center.  Other  returning 
offensive  line  starters  are  end  Tom  Staehr 
and  co-captain  Vin  Colonero. 

The  defensive  team  needs  a  complete 
overhaul,  according  to  Coach  Massucco. 
The  loss  of  Frank  Steiner  and  John 
Plonsky  leaves  only  one  experienced  line- 
backer returning:  co-captain  Jeff  Perry. 
The  secondary  will  miss  the  services  of 
Jarl  Linden  and  outstanding  safety  man 
Don  St.  Marie  (who  will  be  WPI  Director 
of  Sports  Information  this  year).  Defen- 
sive backs  Tom  Beckman  and  Kevin 
Crossen  are  returning,  and  heavy  duty 
will    be    expected    from    returning   ends 


Larry  Prickett  and  Mark  Dupuis,  tackles 
John  Cuth  and  Larry  Lavalle,  and  middle 
guard  Charlie  Kavanaugh.  Here  too,  Mas- 
succo expects  to  get  strong  support  from 
freshmen  and  sophomores  this  year. 

The  kicking  game  should  be  fairly 
solid,  with  Charlie  Deschenes  doing  the 
punting  and  Mark  Dupuis  the  place- 
kicking. 


JV  football  has  a  new  coach,  Dick  Heik- 
kinen,  who  will  also  be  working  with  the 
varsity  linemen.  After  the  football  season 
ends,  Heikkinen  will  move  over  to  be ' 
head  wrestling  coach,  replacing  Lenny 
Pollizotto. 

CROSS-COUNTRY 

Coach  Frank  Fannella  is  hopeful  of  re- 
peating his  winning  record  of  last  season. 
He  has  eight  members  of  last  year's  team 
returning,  as  well  as  a  number  of  promis- 
ing freshmen.  The  team  will  be  lead  by 
co-captains  Mike  Malone  and  Mark  Hoyt. 
Andy  Murch,  last  year's  outstanding  run- 
ner will  also  be  back.  Sophomores  Scott 
LePage,  Stan  Purington,  and  Joe  Gaff  en 
are  expected  to  strengthen  the  team. 


12 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


CLASS  OF  1906 

James  E.Smith  '06  entertained  Franklin 
Green,  '06,  Portland,  Oregon,  Leroy  N. 
Reeve,  '06,  Melborne  Beach,  Florida  and  the 
writer,  at  dinner  at  the  Holiday  Inn,  Friday 
evening,  June  4th.  The  evening  chats  proved 
very  interesting  and  entertaining.  We  were 
particularly  pleased  that  President  and  Mrs. 
Hazzard  were  with  us  for  a  nice  long  visit 
which  proved  must  enjoyable. 

Late  in  the  afternoon,  Jimmy  and  I 
visited  Charles  L.  Tucker,  '06,  now  at  the 
Wayside  Nursing  Home  on  Grove  Street. 
Neither  he  nor  Jerome  W.  Howe,  '09  are  bed 
patients,  but  sit  up  every  day.  It  was  a  visit 
that  all  four  of  us  will  remember  for  a  long 
time. 

Saturday  morning,  we  met  at  Tech  and 
while  Green,  Reeve  and  I  attended  the 
Luncheon,  Jimmy  grasped  the  opportunity 
to  drive  with  his  son  Morrison,  '37  to  his 
boyhood  home  in  Rochester,  New  Hamp- 
shire after  the  class  picture  was  taken. 

Illness  of  the  lady-folk  prevented  Mark 
Eldridge  and  Lance  Staughton  from  being 
with  us  at  this  reunion;  they  were  present  in 
1966. 

Roy  S.  Lanphear,  '06 

CLASS  OF  1912 

For  the  eighth  year  in  succession,  1912 
members  met  for  dinner  at  the  Marlboro 
Country  Club,  Friday,  June  4,  1971.  Those 
present  were  Joseph  and  Helen  Granger, 
Henry  and  Madeline  Rickett,  Edward  Tuck- 
er, Harrison  Brown,  and  we  were  pleased  to 
include  Mrs.  Herbert  F.  Taylor  and  Mrs. 
Harold  L.  Nickerson,  widows  of  two  of  our 
formerly  most  active  members. 

After  the  dinner  we  drove  to  the  nearby 
home  of  our  president,  Joe  Granger,  where 
we  disposed  of  business  matters  in  about  an 
hour. 

On  Saturday  morning  we  were  joined  by 
Eugene  and  Gertrude  Powers  making  seven 
at  the  Alumni  Luncheon. 

There  is  about  $2600  interest  available 
in  the  Herbert  Foster  Taylor  Student  Aid 
Fund;  the  principal  remains  unchanged. 

There  were  three  deaths  during  the  year: 
Frank  H.  Plaisted  and  Leon  H.  Treadwell, 
both  in  August,  1970,  and  Charles  L. 
Nevens,  just  four  weeks  before  our  reunion. 
James  P.  Hogan  died  in  1968;  the  confusion 
caused  by  a  report  by  the  town  clerk  that  he 
was  still  alive  resulted  from  his  reference  to 
the  son,  James  B.  Hogan.  Also  reported  was 
the  death  of  John  T.  Quinn  in  1969  but  no 
details  were  received.  With  these  five  gone, 
our  membership  is  now  29,  1 3  of  whom  are 
out  of  New  England. 

THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


CLASS  OF  1911 

The  survivors  of  the  class  of  1911, 
(about  35%)  had  their  annual  reunion  on 
Friday  evening,  June  4  at  the  Holiday  Inn  in 
Worcester.  Five  members,  their  wives  and 
two  guests  were  present:  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Dave 
Carpenter,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Howard  Chace,  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  William  Donath,  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Hugh  Reid,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Clarence  Taft  and 


two  guests,  Mrs.  Pat  Hanaver  and  her  sister. 
A  social   hour  and  dinner  were  enjoyed 
and    greetings    from    several    members  who 
could  not  attend  were  read. 

All  agreed  to  meet  at  the  reunion  on  the 
Tech  Campus  Saturday  if  possible. 

Howard  P.  Chace 
President,  Class  of  1911 


13 


It  was  gratifying  to  make  contact  this 
year  with  80%  of  our  members.  Of  the  six 
who  failed  to  answer  our  letter,  two  had 
recently  sent  in  long  letters.  While  distance 
and  weakness  are  common  reasons  for  not 
attending  reunions,  a  few  were  detained 
only  by  conflicting  appointments  such  as 
graduation  of  grandchildren. 

Eric  Benedict  is  still  in  good  health  but 
his  "line  voltage  seems  a  bit  lower."  He 
extends  an  invitation  to  any  who  may  visit 
the  Cape.  .  .  Bertram  Cleveland  still  goes  to 
business  and  plays  golf.  .  .  George  Clifford  is 
beginning  to  get  arthritis  and  now  realizes 
how  his  wife  has  suffered  for  some  years.  .  . 
J.  Francis  Granger,  our  President,  is  in  good 
health,  is  Chairman  of  Marlborough  Hospital 
Planning  Committee,  and  Secretary  of  Mas- 
sachusetts Highway  Association.  .  .  Guy 
Hawkins  is  doing  some  planting  on  eight 
acres  of  Arizona  desert  land.  Last  summer 
he  sent  in  an  account  of  his  experience  with 
Road  Runner  Cuckoo  birds  with  a  picture 
of  one  eating  out  of  his  hand.  This  was 
occasioned  by  a  note  in  the  Journal  (Spring 
1970)  from  George  Gilchrest.  We  forwarded 
it  to  George  with  the  hope  that  the  two 
might  get  together  over  the  100  miles 
separating  them.  .  .  Howard  King  fully  in- 
tended to  attend  both  Friday  and  Saturday 
but  a  last  minute  problem  delayed  his  arrival 
in  Worcester  until  late  Saturday  so  he 
continued  on  to  Scarborough,  Maine,  where 
he  spends  his  summers.  He  is  nearly  blind 
but  cheerful.  .  .  Alfred  Kinney  is  "studying 
the  art  of  doing  nothing,  alone,  after  a  heart 
attack  some  time  ago".  His  new  address  is 
Skyland  Motor  Inn  which  he  hopes  is 
temporary. 

Frank  McGowan  is  now  fully  retired.  A 
conflict  of  dates  was  all  that  kept  him  from 
the  reunion.  .  .  Fred  Munson  is  at  his  office 
every  working  day  but  retires  at  noon  to  his 
deep  woods  home  in  Leicester  with  a  pond 
in  the  back  yard  where  he  has  only  the  dog 
to  talk  to.  .  .  Carlton  Norton  plays  golf  and 
bridge  with  the  "Sons  in  Retirement",  to 
which  he  belongs.  The  exercise  keeps  him 
physically  fit.  His  oldest  son,  Carl  Jr.,  who 
was  with  the  FBI,  died  last  April.  .  .  Eugene 
Powers  is  as  lively  and  youthful  as  ever. 
With  the  mischievous  sparkle  in  his  eye  it  is 
hard  to  believe  he  has  finally  turned  80;  he 
was  the  last  of  us  to  reach  that.  .  .  Henry 
Rickett,  with  Madeline,  holds  the  record  for 
attending  all  nine  reunions  since  our  50th. 
He  is  still  interested  in  civic  service  and 
church.  .  .  James  Shea  still  keeps  up  his 
business  activities  but  has  some  difficulty  in 
walking.  .  .  Clinton  Smith  still  serves  as 
Transportation  Consultant  but  no  longer 
drives  a  car.  Mrs.  Smith  is  suffering  from  a 
1965  accident.  .  .  Harland  Stuart  is  the  real 
busy  bee.  He  is  fighting  the  battle  of 
Gettysburg  to  keep  a  300  foot  tower  from 
being  built  on  the  battlefield.  There  is 
plenty  of  activity  in  this  historic  town.  As 
chairman  of  a  committee,  he  is  identifying 


and  marking  civil  war  houses  —  over  220  so 
far.  The  Rotary  and  the  YWCA  know  to 
whom  they  can  go  when  they  want  action; 
and  the  First  Baptist  Church  has  made  him  a 
deacon.  .  .  Ernest  (Nibs)  Taylor  continues  to 
be  the  most  prolific  letter  writer.  Struggles 
with  the  typewriter,  the  weather,  shopping, 
card  parties,  grandchildren,  plants  and 
flowers  —  he  covers  many  subjects,  all 
sprinkled  with  humor.  He  has  decided  not 
to  furnish  the  ground  squirrels  with  more 
tulip  bulb  salad.  He  sent  a  picture  of  the 
electric  hoe  mentioned  last  year  in  the 
Journal.  It  can  also  mow  in  tight  corners 
and  polish  floors.  .  .  Edward  Tucker  doesn't 
drive  but  manages  to  get  around  depending 


upon  buses  and  his  daughter.  .  .  Holman 
Waring,  as  honorary  secretary  of  the 
Sanitary  Commission,  keeps  up  with  current 
practice  by  reading.  He  also  lectures  regu- 
larly at  the  University  and  to  other 
groups.  .  .  Other  reports  were  received  from 
Earl  Gleason,  August  Reinhard,  Roger 
Towne,  and  Guy  Whitney. 

Finally,  your  Secretary  bores  everyone 
by  boasting  of  being  secretary-treasurer  of 
four  organizations:  1912  Class,  Tech  Old- 
Timers,  Improvement  Society,  and  Men's 
Forum.  Life  never  gets  dull  when  you  have 
months'  undone  jobs  ahead. 

Harrison  G.  Brown,  Secretary 


CLASS  OF  1916 


The  55th  Reunion  of  the  Class  of  1916 
was  held  in  the  Holiday  Inn  in  Worcester  on 
Friday  evening  June  5,  1971  with  nine 
classmates  and  seven  wives  in  attendance. 

Previously  all  met  at  Daniels  Hall 
Lounge  and  were  conducted  on  a  tour  of 
several  new  buildings  by  one  of  next  year's 
clean-cut  seniors.  The  campus  is  beautiful 
and  the  changes  in  55  years  are  fantastic. 

Stoddard  Residence  Center  on  Institute 
Road  was  visited  first.  It  was  dedicated  last 
Fall  and  consists  of  three  separate  buildings, 
in  one  of  which  the  women  students  live  on 
the  third  or  top  floor  and  men  students  live 
on  the  lower  floors.  The  three  buildings  are 
heated  electrically  and  each  contains  a 
central  lounge  area  which  opens  onto  an 
outdoor  patio.  One  of  the  buildings  has  a 
seven  bed  infirmary. 

Harrington  Auditorium,  completed  in 
1968,  was  next.  It  seats  over  3000  people 
and  adjoins  the  Alumni  Gymnasium  which 
was  completed  in  1916.  It  is  my  recollection 
that  the  latter  was  used  for  the  first  time  for 
our  1916  Commencement  Exercises,  since 
which  time  the  student  body  has  tripled. 

The  George  C.  Gordon  Library  was 
visited    last.    It   is  very   imposing  from  the 


outside  and  very  beautiful  and  businesslike 
on  the  inside.  Air  conditioning,  carpeting, 
and  upholstered  furniture  all  add  to  its 
attractiveness.  Do  you  remember  that  at  our 
50th  Reunion  in  1966  our  class  contributed 
more  than  $23,000  for  new  books  for  this 
Library? 

From  the  Library  we  drove  to  Holiday 
Inn  where  friendships  were  renewed  and 
good  fellowship  prevailed,  all  helped  by  an 
excellent  accordion  player. 

Those  present  with  wives  were  Leslie 
Chaffee,  Wellen  Colburn,  Roland  Home, 
Robert  E.  Lamb,  Arthur  Nutt,  Roy  Storms 
and  Horace  Trull.  Carl  Burgess  was  alone  as 
his  wife  passed  away  in  1966.  Bud  Royal 
also  was  alone  as  his  wife  attended  an 
important  family  wedding  in  or  pear  Wash- 
ington, D.C.  Don  Maynard  missed  the  din- 
ner but  did  attend  the  alumni  Luncheon  on 
Saturday. 

The  Chaffees  from  Tacoma,  Washington 
came  the  greatest  distance  but  Mrs.  Lamb, 
before  returning  to  their  home  in  Deerfield 
Beach,  Florida  will  have  travelled  further. 
From  Worcester  she  and  Bob  were  to  drive 
to  Detroit,  Michigan.  From  there  she  was  to 
start    on    a    trip   around   the  world  with   a 


14 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL      •, 


group  sponsored  by  the  General  Federation 
of  Women's  Clubs.  Bob  was  to  drive  alone 
to  Florida. 

After  an  excellent  dinner  Bud  Royal, 
our  Class  President,  conducted  a  brief  busi- 
ness meeting.  The  first  item  was  a  moment 
of  silence  for  the  13  classmates  who  have 
passed  away  since  our  50th  Reunion. 

Next,  Bud  attempted  to  resign  as  Presi- 
dent but  was  unanimously  voted  down. 
Arthur  Nutt  was  continued  as  Vice  Presi- 
dent and  C.  LeRoy  Storms  as  Secretary- 
Treasurer.  Incidentally  we  have  a  little  over 
$100.00  in  our  account. 

Bud  then  asked  each  classmate  to  out- 
line briefly  his  activities.  All  had  been 
unusually  busy,  considering  their  youth! 

Our  attendance  was  smaller  than  antici- 
pated last  Fall  for  several  reasons: 

Arthur  Blair  was  hit  by  an  automobile 
while  crossing  a  street  in  his  home  town  of 
Haddonfield,  N.J.  on  March  15  and  serious- 
ly hurt.  Mrs.  Blair  writes  that  it  will  be  six 
months  before  Arthur  can  walk  again. 

Wally  Wallsten  had  surgery  in  March 
while  at  his  winter  home  in  Pinellas  Park, 
Florida  and  was  unable  to  attend. 

Aurelio  Zambarano  hurt  his  back  in  May 
and  could  not  come  up  from  Florida. 

Ralph  Farnum  died  suddenly  on  April 
13,  1971  while  in  St.  Petersburg,  Florida. 

Joe  Murphy  did  not  come  because  his 
wife  passed  away  in  her  sleep  on  May  18, 
1971  in  Armonk,  New  York. 

Si  Collier,  Phil  Cooke  and  Lawrence 
Jones  all  had  conflicts  on  that  date. 

Notes  from  several  classmates  were  read: 

Frank  Gifford  has  been  in  ill  health  for 
the  past  5  years.  He  requested  that  we  sing 
"loud  and  clear"  just  for  him,  an  old  time 
favorite  "On  the  Old  Fall  River  Line".  We 
were  happy  to  do  so  with  the  assistance  of 
our  accordion  player. 

Everett  Bragdon  will  soon  move  from 
West  Baldwin,  Maine  to  Lynchburg,  Va. 

Arthur  K.  Ingraham  of  Oakland,  Califor- 
nia sent  a  clipping  about  his  second  retire- 
ment this  past  March.  He  was  in  the 
Engineering  Dept.  of  the  Pacific  Gas  and 
Electric  Co.  in  San  Francisco  from  1923 
until  he  retired  in  1959.  During  that  period 
he  held  all  the  various  offices  in  the  Ameri- 
can Society  of  Mechanical  Engineers,  San 
Francisco  Section  and  also  served  eight 
years  with  the  Army  Engineers  as  a  Colonel. 
In  1959  he  started  another  career  in  the 
Public  Works  Department  at  the  U.S.  Navy's 
Treasure  Island  Station  in  San  Francisco 
Bay.  His  second  retirement  was  from  this 
position  in  March  1971 . 

James  C.  (Jimmy)  Walker,  a  member  of 
Tech's  Board  of  Trustees,  regretted  he  could 
not  be  with  us  as  he  would  be  in  France. 

After  hearing  about  our  classmates,  the 
evening  was  concluded  by  Bob  Lamb  show- 
ing some  movies  of  our  40th  Reunion  in 
1956  at  Toy  Town  Tavern  in  Winchendon, 
Mass.    and    of    an    extended    trip    through 

HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Switzerland  he  and  his  wife  took  a  few  years 
ago.  All  were  most  enjoyable  and  everyone 
agreed  that  Bob  is  an  excellent  photograph- 
er. 

One  additional  personal  note.  After  the 
Alumni  Luncheon  Mrs.  Storms  and  I  walked 
to  the  Higgins  home  which  has  just  been 
donated  to  Tech.  It  is  on  Salisbury  Street, 
was  built  in  1924,  and  is  modelled  after  an 
English   country   home.    It   is  beautiful  and 


most  intriguing  even  without  furniture.  We 
were  fortunate  in  joining  a  small  group  and 
having  a  personally  conducted  tour  of  the 
house  by  Mr.  Milton  P.  Higgins,  newly 
elected  Chairman  of  the  Board  of  Trustees 
of  WPI.  Approximately  5  acres,  I  believe,  of 
well  landscaped  grounds  will  be  added  to 
Tech's  campus. 

C.  LeRoy  Storms 
Secretary-Treasurer 


CLASS  OF  1921 


'21  "Had  a  Ball"  on  their  50th  reunion 
weekend  at  the  former  Toy  Town  Tavern 
(now  the  Winchendon  School)  and  at 
Worcester.  The  lucky  members  attending 
were:  Harold  and  Meta  Black;  Carleton  and 
Hellen  Bolles;  Spike  and  Harriet  Brown; 
Myron  and  Ruth  Chace;  Bob  and  Eva 
Chapman;  Irving  M.  Desper;  Bob  Eldred; 
Bud  and  Edra  Fisher;  Carroll  and  Dorothy 
Huntington;  Dr.  Cy  and  Mrs.  Israel;  Johnny 
and  Hazel  Johnson;  Jerry  and  Ruth  Martin; 
Stan  McCaslin;  Lyle  and  Betty  Morse;  Dick 
and  Janet  Penfield;  Earle  Pickering;  Ed  and 
Mrs.  Rose;  Paul  Sessions;  B.  C.  and  Phylis 
Shaw;  I.  R.  Smith;  Foster  and  Elizabeth 
Sturtevant;  Bud  Thayer;  Line  and  Anne 
Thompson;  Harold  and  Margaret  Whitmore; 
Alex  and  Victoria  Wilson;  Paul  and  Bertie 
Woodbury. 

Half  of  the  26  members  listed  above  and 
19  wives  arrived  Thursday  afternoon  in  time 
for  cocktails  on  the  porch.  After  a  delicious 
dinner,  we  spent  the  evening  reminiscing. 
With  Spike  and  Jerry  as  bartenders  and  Bud 
Thayer  as  entertainer,  the  time  passed  mer- 
rily. 

The  rest  of  the  gang  arrived  Friday.  Bud 
Thayer  escorted  the  "girls"  on  an  antique 
shop  trip  while  the  "boys"  again  recalled 
many  of  the  events  of  the  '17  to  '21  years. 
All  got  together  at  5:00  p.m.  for  cocktails. 

In  1921,  I.  R.  Smith  was  elected  our 
permanent  president,  but  in  as  much  as  he 
attends  reunions  only  every  50  years,  we 
fired  him  forty  years  ago,  and  have  elected 
officers  every  five  years.  The  present  offi- 
cers   are   as   follows:    President,    "Johnny" 


Johnson;  Vice-president,  "Line"  Thompson; 
Secretary,  "Carl"  Bolles;  Treasurer,  "Bob" 
Chapman;  Reunion  Committee:  officers 
plus  "Spike"  Brown,  "Cherub"  Chace, 
"Jerry"  Martin  and  "Honie"  Huntington. 

After  dinner  "Johnny"  called  the  meet- 
ing to  order.  A  moment  of  silence  was 
observed  in  memory  of  the  '21  class  mem- 
bers no  longer  with  us,  and  the  names  of  the 
eleven  deceased  since  our  last  reunion  were 
read  by  "Carl." 

Excerpts  from  letters  from  class  mem- 
bers who  could  not  attend  the  reunion  were 
read  by  "Johnny,"  as  follows: 

Jack  Williams,  Dept.  of  Chemistry,  Uni- 
versity of  Wisconsin  —  Jack  has  been  teach- 
ing Physical  Chemistry  at  the  University  of 
Wisconsin  for  many  years,  and  in  his  re- 
search activities  has  written  a  large  number 
of  papers  and  reports.  P.  K.  Davis,  Carmel, 
California  —  Phil  had  planned  to  be  with  us, 
but  when  Tech  changed  the  date  for  reunion 
to  June  3,  it  made  it  impossible  for  him  to 
attend.  Dick  Pereira,  Brazil  -  His  govern- 
ment says  "no"  to  his  spending  money  in 
the  U.S.A.  He  wished,  however,  to  be 
remembered  to  all.  George  Condit,  Mesa, 
Arizona  —  He  retired  to  Arizona  five  years 
ago,  and  has  kept  busy  with  National 
Service  Clubs,  Boy  Scouts,  Irrigation  Dis- 
trict, etc.,  etc.  Cal  Callahan,  Newburgh, 
N.Y.  -  He  doesn't  admit  it,  but  the  old 
politician  is  still  at  it.  He  is  busy  as  ever 
directing  functions  of  the  Land  Office.  Fred 
Pickwick,  Grand  Junction,  Colorado  —  Fred 
has  retired  from  the  Atomic  Energy  Com- 
mission, and  has  decided  to  stay  in  the  far 


15 


1926 


West.  Bill  Schuerman,  Monmouth,  Oregon  — 
Bill  is  still  consulting  in  the  Willamette 
Valley,  but  he  didn't  say  what  about.  Tessie 
Burleigh,  Tavares,  Florida  —  Tessie  phoned 
from  Tavares  to  wish  us  all  a  happy  reunion 
and  to  express  his  regrets. 

Jerry  Martin  reported  on  the  Fiftieth 
Anniversary  Gift  and  asked  Chuck  Ross  to 
give  us  the  good  news.  We  are  at  present  up 
to  the  $40,000  mark,  with  34  out  of  63 
members  listed.  Jerry  suggested  and  we 
voted  not  to  specify  the  use  of  our  gift,  but 
rather  to  have  it  applied  to  the  general  fund. 

Johnny  produced  a  leather-covered 
1921  commencement  program,  which 
brought  back  fond  memories  and  produced 
many  wise-cracks  from  the  audience.  He 
then  called  for  each  member  to  tell,  in  a  few 
short  sentences,  what  they  have  been  doing 
(omitting  any  references  to  children  or 
grandchildren).  The  reports  were  identical  — 
"Retired." 

On  Saturday  we  drove  to  WPI  to  join 
the  Fifty-Year  Associates  and  have  our  class 
picture  taken.  At  the  alumni  luncheon  we 
received  our  individual  Fifty-Year  Certifi- 
cates from  President  Hazzard,  and  won  the 
class  attendance  cup. 

We  "had  a  ball"! 

Carleton  F.  Bolles,  Secretary 


CLASS  OF  1926 

This  was  one  of  the  finest  turnouts  in 
years.  Forty-three  class  members  and  thirty- 


seven  wives  were  on  hand  for  Friday  night's 
festivities  at  the  Yankee  Drummer  Inn. 
Cocktail  hour  began  at  5:00  p.m.  with 
dinner  at  7:00  p.m.  so  there  was  plenty  of 
time  to  chat  with  everyone  before  the 
serious  business  of  eating.  An  excellent  roast 
beef  dinner  was  served.  After  dinner  Presi- 
dent Hap  Kallander  reviewed  some  of  the 
past  and  spoke  of  those  no  longer  with  us. 
Officers  for  the  next  five  years  were  elected 
being:  Emerson  A.  Wiggin,  Pres.,  Richard  P. 
Houlihan,  Vice  Pres.;  C.  Sture  Carlson, 
Sec.-Treas.;  Milton  E.  Bergland,  Chairman  of 
the  50  year  gift  fund;  and  Lawrence  S. 
Peterson,  Chairman  of  the  50th  reunion. 
Hap  then  introduced  Prof,  van  Alstyne  who 
enlightened  us  on  the  new  methods  of 
education  on  the  Hill.  This  was  most  inter- 
esting and  well  received.  Two  more  mem- 
bers arrived  for  Saturday's  activities  but  we 
lost  some  from  the  night  before  so  were  not 
able  to  win  the  attendance  prize.  This  will 
not  happen  at  the  50th. 

Emerson  A.  Wiggin 
Reunion  Chairman 


-jfiSt'^i 

•    >!§•*.  *•■       &B* 

**''a586 

*L*          •  Ml tfj'sH* ,  cTJCjIJiiliU 

*+&£<•       *&*g 

E?»&*i*- 

~w* 

Wb  ■      '"F  ^Mffl&f1  ■ jSI 

^^ft-**** 

>-.--- 

^•v,'*-    '    '•  f 

t£T"<  ■/■  ,■«.«- 

■•*'- ""•■ 

<W£?'W'W?t  -   "'■■ 

ESe*             •' •*  iT^Mrl*"*?  '"'"-'  "~* 

* 

■A  "- 

ST  |j*   ylijpuKJ  afe^?--'  j*H 

''"■:' 

rara^ral    B^W 

E5! 

1 

?    *    *  s'-b    m  &>  *' 

fajft~jtjL:Jtm^l0kjl 

Tm 

KM 

Pm 

Tt  f 

f*T 

AJ  * 

WEaf^ 

i\4'  >L3 

L^LJj25rsjKs?,'^& 

Ha  '^ 

>:  i 

IB'SIm 

II  <  Tg<  dkk. 

tmmm 

1931 

CLASS  OF  1936 

A  total  of  forty-five  members,  and 
wives,  including  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Albert 
Schwieger  really  "reunioned"  at  the  Coach 
and  Six  Restaurant  on  June  4,  to  celebrate 
and  reminisce  the  four  (or  more)  years  at 
WPI  and  the  35  years  since  then. 

Committees  of  wives  were  challenged  to 
make  decisions  about  members  of  the  class 
concerning  their  present  attributes.  After 
much  deliberation  these  committees  decided 
that  Brewster  Howard  was  the  "MOST 
TYPICAL  GRADUATE,"  Roger  Bruce,  the 


"BEST  PRESERVED,"  and  Art  Tripp,  the 
"MOST  MOD  DRESSER."  They  also  con- 
cluded that  Jack  Brand's  "Waistline  Had 
Changed  The  Least"  since  1936  (and  this 
you  can  believe)  and  Len  Johnson  had  the 
"Friendliest  Smile"  (you  know,  you  still 
like  him  immediately).  Appropriate  WPI 
prizes  were  awarded  for  each  of  these 
achievements. 

Ed  Wilcox,  Bob  Fowler  and  Carl  Benson 
were  the  recipients  of  WPI  attendance 
prizes. 

The    Committee    does  believe   that    our 


wives  helped  to  support  the  Tech  Bookstore 
by  these  purchases! 

It  was  most  interesting  to  hear  what  our 
members  had  been  doing  since  our  last 
reunion  and,  in  some  cases,  for  the  last  35 
years.  Len  Johnson  has  two  sets  of  twins 
(does  his  friendly  smile  contribute?)  and  Bill 
Maine  six  grandchildren;  Jack  Sacks  and 
Martin  Gowdy  have  retired  (lucky  fellows!) 
and  work  at  their  pleasure. 

This  was  Al  Ekberg's  first  return  in  35 
years  and  he  travelled  from  Albuquerque, 
New  Mexico  to  do  so,  the  longest  distance 


16 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


of  any  present,  for  which  he  received  an 
award.  He  says  it  is  wonderful  country,  and 
please  look  him  up  if  you're  in  the  area. 

Al  Schwieger  gave  an  interesting  and 
informative  talk  on  the  new  WPI  curricu- 
lum. It  certainly  is  challenging  and  we 
wonder  how  many  of  us  would  be  able  to 
graduate  in  the  approximately  three  years 
minimum  predicted.  How  about  lectures  on 
video-tape? 

Greetings  to  those  present  were  given 
for  our  Class  Officers  by  Jack  Brand,  Vice 
President.  Jack  hasn't  changed  much  either! 

Those  not  able  to  attend  (for  reasons  of 
college  graduations,  being  overseas,  or 
getting  married)  who  sent  messages  to  the 
Reunion  were  Don  Edmunds,  Hal  Burr, 
George  Chase,  Fred  Yeo,  Ted  Wyman,  Ben 
Smith,  Hal  Pomeroy,  Nelson  Marshall,  Clint 
Leech,  Joe  Hastings,  Ed  Guild  and  Jim 
Ethier. 

It  was  a  grand  reunion  —  now  on  to  the 
40th!  Those  at  the  reunion  included:  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Edward  Armstrong;  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Carl  Benson;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Leo  Benoit;  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  John  Brand;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Roger 
Bruce;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Earl  Curtis;  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Walter  Dahlstrom;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Alfred 
Ekberg;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robert  Fowler,  Jr.; 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Scot  Goodwin;  Mr.  and  Mrs. 


1936 


Alexander  Gordon;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Martin 
Gowdey;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Brewster  Howard; 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Leonard  Johnson;  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
William  Maine;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Foster  McRell, 
Jr.;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Reginald  Morrill;  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Jacob  Sacks;  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Albert 
Schwieger;    Mr.  and    Mrs.   George   Sherwin; 


Mr.  and    Mrs.    Headen   Thompson;  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Abbott  Wilcox. 

Walter  Dahlstrom 

Yngve  Nordstrom 

George  Sherwin 

(and  our  Wives) 

Reunion  Committee 


1941 


CLASS  OF  1941 

As  usual,  this  "great"  class  had  loads  of 
fun.  Our  30th?!  —  nobody  looked  their  age! 

Forty-one  classmates  and  wives  gathered 
on  Friday,  June  4th  at  the  Driftwood  Motor 
Inn  and  Lodge  in  Shrewsbury  for  a  splendid 
and  refreshing  renewal  —  lasting  till  late. 
Tasty  roast  beef  and  lobster  were  on  the 
menu. 

Carl  Koontz,  Professor  and  Head  of  Civil 
Engineering  and  wife  Sue  joined  us  for  this 
informal  evening  of  fun  and  merriment  — 
socializing,  singing,  talking,  dining  and 
dancing  to  the  swinging  "41  era"  music  of 
George  Adrian  and  his  orchestra.  And  — 
how  about  that  sing-a-long!  Packing  all  our 
cares  and  woes  —  "Bye  Bye  Blackbird",  — 
the  bells  were  ringing  —  "For  Me  and  My 
Gal"  —  who  is  —  "A  Million  Dollar  Baby"  — 
and  —  "As  Time  Goes  By"  —  "I  Can't  Give 
You  Anything  But  Love"  -  but  -  "Let  Me 
Call  You  Sweetheart"  —  and  "Ma,  He's 
(still)  Making  Eyes  At  Me"  -  then  —  "Ballin 
The  Jack"  -  and  "The  Red  Red  Robin"?!  - 
and  more. 

We  really  missed  all  those  who  couldn't 
come,  for  ever  so  many  important  reasons, 
at  this  busy  time  of  the  year.  Everyone 
participated  joyfully  telling  of  contacts 
maintained   with   other   members   and  their 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


17 


wives  —  indicating  where  and  how  they 
might  be  found  and  what  they  were  doing. 
Announcements  were  numerous,  for  our 
friends  are  world-wide  doing  great  things. 

Partiality  is  not  intended  by  singling  out 
a  few,  but  we  think  it's  important  to 
mention  that  Bud  and  Nita  Roberton  trav- 
eled from  Spokane,  Washington;  Stan  Majka 
and  wife  from  Orindo,  California;  and  the 
entire  Ed  Ryan  family  journeyed  from 
Washington.  How  nice  to  see  Ken  and 
Christine  Dresser  who  haven't  been  able  to 
make  it  for  a  long,  long  time  because  of  their 
travels  in  the  service.  But  our  warm  and 
ever-loyal  friends  the  Georges,  Muirs,  Green- 
woods, Harans,  Hoebels,  Koleshs,  Nystroms, 
Pecks,  Richardsons,  Whatakers,  Whites, 
McGuiness',  Wolkonowitzs,  McElroys,  Wil- 
sons and  the  McKeowns  were  there  too. 

Given  room,  we  could  say  something 
extra  nice  about  everyone,  thank  them  for 
coming  and  for  making  the  party  such  a 
joyful  one.  I  heard  it  said  that  "the  women 
still  looked  much  younger  than  the  men"  in 
spite  of  their  chores  and  responsibilities 
keeping  us  in  line. 

Charlie  Hoebel  and  wife  "Hutch" 
walked  off  with  the  golf  prizes.  They  sure 
enjoyed  the  game  at  Juniper  Hill.  Vic 
Kolesh,  golfing  and  fund-collecting-specralist 
and  Doug  McKeown,  "another  golfer,"  can 
attest  to  that. 

All  of  the  women  "walked  off"  with 
lovely  table  decorations.  Rightly  so,  since 
the  cute  little  vases  bearing  flowers  were 
mementos  for  the  women.  They  were 
pretty.  Fellow  classmates  received  the  Story 
of  Worcester  Tech  1865-1965,  "Two 
Towers"  —  a  pleasant  reminder  of  days  past. 

And,  there  were  door  prizes!  Many  won 
gifts  that  seemed  to  please. 

It  was  evident  that  Ros  McKeown  had  a 
special  hand  in  most  things  —  her  husband 
being  most  grateful.  Even  Vic  Kolesh  was 
astounded  that  "all  counts"  balanced  off  so 
well. 

With  our  '41  banner,  ribbons  and  smiles, 
picture-taking  time  on  Saturday  was  easy. 
So  —  have  a  look!  Unfortunately,  more 
conflicts  in  date  prevented  some  of  those 
attending  Friday  to  make  Saturday's 
picture. 

The  weekend  was  perfect!  We'll  do  it 
again!  Plan  now  for  the  next. 

Doug  McKeown 


CLASS  OF  1946 

The  class  of  1946  held  its  25th  reunion 
on  Friday,  June  4  during  Reunion  Weekend 
on  campus.  Some  80  members  of  the  class 
and  their  wives  had  the  privilege  of  holding 
the  first  social  event  in  the  old  Higgins 
mansion  located  behind  the  Olin  labora- 
tories and  the  old  gymnasium.  We  had 
perfect  weather  and  the  cocktail  hour  was 
held  in  the  garden,  followed  by  dinner  and 


dancing  in  a  beautiful  setting.  It  was  cer- 
tainly great  to  renew  acquaintances  and  to 
relive  the  days  of  the  past.  Everybody  was 
in  fine  spirit  and  needless  to  say,  a  great 
time  was  had  by  all.  So  much  so,  that  when 
it  came  to  one  a.m.  and  time  to  discontinue 
activities  at  the  Higgins  estate,  the  gang 
talked  the  band  into  moving  to  the  front 
steps  of  the  Daniels  dormitory  and  the  party 
continued  with  music  and  gaiety  for  a 
couple  of  more  hours.  The  class  of  1946  is 
undoubtedly  in  the  record  books  as  having 
outstanding  spirit  and  for  holding  the  first 
outdoor  dance  at  the  Daniels  dormitory, 
which  is  where  most  of  the  out-of-towners 
stayed  overnight. 

Charlie  McNulty,  whom  you  will  re- 
member as  a  Navy  Chief  Petty  Officer  and 
athletic  coach,  was  our  banquet  speaker.  He 
gave  a  very  amusing  dissertation  on  days 
gone  by  and  progress  at  Tech  since  our 
departure.  We  learned  more  about  what 
really  went  on  in  the  early  1940's  than  we 
ever  could  have  imagined  while  we  were 
there.  Following  his  outstanding  presenta- 
tion, the  class  unanimously  voted  Charlie 
McNulty  as  an  honorary  member  of  the 
class  of  1946.  President  Hazzard  and  his 
wife  made  a  brief  appearance  at  the  reunion 
and  met  most  of  the  classmates. 

Enclosed  is  another  biographical  form 
for  those  who  didn't  complete  one  original- 
ly. We  have  decided  that  if  those  of  you 
who  have  not  told  us  about  your  career  will 
get  on  the  ball  and  do  so  on  the  form,  we 
will  issue  a  collection  of  supplemental  sheets 
a  few  weeks  from  now  which  classmates  can 
incorporate  in  their  booklet.  For  those  of 
you  who  did  not  receive  the  printed  book- 
let, you  may  have  one  by  sending  S3  to  the 
Alumni  Office.  Those  of  you  who  could  not 
make  the  reunion  and  forgot  about  this 
summary,  please  do  it  right  away  and  mail  it 
to  Steve  Hebert  at  the  Alumni  Office.  Steve 
Hebert  has  just  been  appointed  our  new 
Alumni  Executive  Secretary  replacing  War- 
ren Zepp  who  has  been  promoted  to  a  new 
position  as  Special  Assistant  to  the  Vice 
President  of  University  Relations.  This 
change  occurred  at  the  reunion  weekend. 

At  the  reunion,  a  special  committee 
decided,  and  it  was  approved,  that  the  use 
of  our  25  year  class  gift  would  be  for  the 
purpose  of  advancing  WPI's  program  on 
their  multi-media  approach  to  education, 
primarily  in  the  audio-visual  area.  Upon  our 
arrival,  our  class  gift  had  totaled  $6300;  but 
before  the  Alumni  Luncheon  on  Saturday, 
we  had  been  able  to  increase  it  to  $7200. 
We  know  there  are  many  returns  which  did 
not  reach  us  in  time  and  we  announced  the 
objective  of  attaining  a  class  gift  of  $10,000. 
We  would  like  all  those  who  have  not  yet 
submitted,  or  who  would  like  to  increase  his 
gift,  to  do  it  immediately.  Remember,  that 
we  have  been  allowed  to  make  a  3  year 
pledge  and  that  this  pledge  to  our  class  gift 
at    this    time  would  also  be  considered  as 


your  gift  to  the  Alumni  Association  for  this 
3  year  period.  Please  send  your  pledges  to 
Steve  Hebert  on  the  forms  enclosed. 

You  will  be  interested  to  know  that  Bill 
Bergman  traveled  the  longest  distance  just 
for  the  reunion,  coming  in  from  Santa 
Barbara,  California.  Pat  and  George  Morin 
of  Keene,  New  Hampshire  have  the  largest 
family,  8  children.  You  would  never  have 
guessed  it  as  Pat  led  the  activities  in  all  types 
of  dancing  including  some  fancy  group 
Greek  numbers.  Joe  Johnson  had  a  son 
graduating  from  WPI  on  June  6  and  John 
Gagliardo  has  a  son  finishing  his  Sophomore 
year.  Attendees  received  a  Worcester  Tech 
mug  or  large  beer  glass  as  a  memento  of  the 
occasion.  The  class  picture  was  taken  in  the 
Higgins  estate  garden.  Classmate  Charlie 
Richardson  brought  back  old  memories  as 
he  joined  the  Orchestra  with  his  trumpet  a 
la  days  and  memories  of  the  Boyntonians. 
He  puffed  away  until  3  a.m. 

You  should  all  know  that  your  repre- 
sentatives and  reunion  attendees  have  agreed 
with  the  Alumni  office  that  for  reunion  and 
administrative  purposes  the  suffixes  A,  B,  C 
and  D  will  be  discontinued  and  we  will  be 
treated  as  one  class  of  1946.  We  have 
already  demonstrated  our  spirit  in  unison 
and  those  of  you  who  could  not  make  it 
missed  a  wonderful  weekend.  Our  next 
reunion  will  be  in  5  years,  when  we  join  for 
our  30th.  Let's  go  after  the  trophy  for  the 
highest  percent  attendance  and  for  another 
great  time.  You  may  be  interested  in  who 
made  it  this  time  so  a  list  of  attendees  is  also 
enclosed.  See  you  in  '76. 

Carl  Simon 


CLASS  OF  1951 

The  Class  of  1951  exchanged  experi- 
ences with  each  other  Saturday  morning  and 
at  lunch  and  had  our  group  picture  taken 
prior  to  a  very  enjoyable  evening  spent  at 
the  Driftwood  Motor  Lodge. 

This  we  all  agreed  was  our  best  get-to- 
gether to  date  and  vowed  that  the  next, 
25th,  would  be  even  better,  so  be  prepared 
and  start  making  plans  with  your  classmates 
that  you  see  and  haven't  seen  for  twenty 
years  to  help  be  with  us  for  the  big  one  in 
'76. 

A  very  enjoyable  social  hour  prior  to  a 
roast  beef  dinner  followed  by  a  song  fest 
and  Dixie  Land  jazz  band  made  up  our 
evening  activities.  Our  guests.  Bob  and  Jean 
Pritchard,  showed  us  their  dancing  style  and 
led  us  in  singing  our  favorite  songs.  The 
following  members  and  wives  who  attended, 
hope  to  see  all  of  the  Class  of  '51  in  the  year 
1976.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Mark  Baker,  Mr.  Don 
Corey,  Mr.  Rick  Ferrari,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ed 
Johnson,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Sid  Kessler,  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Hugh  Lovell,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Stan  Miller, 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Duncan  Monroe,  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Jim  Rich,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Larry  Scinto,  Mr. 
and    Mrs.    Vartkes    Sohigian,   Mr.  and   Mrs. 


18 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


1951 


Henry  Taylor,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Bob  Wolff,  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Jack  Writer,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ed 
Nahikian,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Roy  Olson,  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Neal  Peterson,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Merrill 
Spiller,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Charles  Pierce,  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  John  George,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Dick  Erick- 
son  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Louis  DelSignore. 


CLASS  OF  1961 

On  Saturday,  June  5,  the  Class  of  '61 
gathered  to  renew  old  friendships  after  10 
years  away  from  the  "Tute."  Daytime  activ- 
ities included  the  Alumni  Association  meet- 
ing and  a  tour  of  the  many  new  buildings 
and  facilities  on  campus,  including  the 
grounds  of  the  recently  acquired  Higgins 
Estate. 


The  evening  was  highlighted  by  an  excel- 
lent dinner,  dancing,  and  socializing  at 
Pleasant  Valley  Country  Club  in  Sutton. 
Twenty-three  couples  attended,  coming 
from  New  England,  New  York,  and  New 
Jersey. 

A  few  class  members  showed  signs  of 
thinning  hair  and  expanding  waistlines. 
However,  many  had  much  more  hair,  in- 
cluding moustaches  and  beards,  than  the 
crew-cut  and  "Princeton"  styles  of  our  col- 
lege days.  There  were  still  a  few  bachelors, 
with  dates,  but  most  men  were  married  with 
as  many  as  four  children.  The  wives  and 
dates  were  without  exception  chic  and 
attractive. 

There  was  a  good  cross-section  of  busi- 
ness,  industry,  and   education    represented. 


Jobs    range    from    self-employed   and  small 
consulting  firms  to  "Ma  Bell"  and  I.B.M. 

Those  attending  include  Dick  Adler,  Bill 
Calder,  Joe  Carpentiere,  Charlie  Cook,  Ron 
Delaripa,  Roger  Faulk,  Bob  Fitch,  Jack 
Gabarro,  Lee  Gazoorian,  Walt  Haller,  Brad 
Hosmer,  Stu  Kazin,  Hank  Kosiba,  Steve 
Lerman,  Charlie  Mello,  Jerry  Mullaney, 
Norm  Noel,  Yesugey  Oktay,  Dick  O'Shea, 
Ken  Parker,  Dave  Raab,  Moe  Rees,  Al 
Sherman,  and  Rich  Vogel. 

Morgan  Rees,  Chairman 


CLASS  OF  1966 

The  class  of  1966  held  its  fifth-year 
reunion  on  Saturday  evening,  June  5.  The 
evening  included  a  social  hour  on  the 
grounds  of  the  Higgins  Estate,  followed  by  a 
dinner-dance  at  Putnam  &  Thurston's.  Al- 
though the  turnout  was  small,  everyone  had 
a  good  time.  Those  present  were:  Tom 
Benoit,  John  Bowen,  Steve  Hebert,  Pete 
Kudless,  Skip  Kunz,  John  Lautherback, 
Larry  Penoncello,  Don  Ruef,  Mike  Salvini, 
Roman  Sywak,  Ron  Tata,  and  Len  Weckel. 
Larry  Penoncello,  President. 


-^:'-'h:'....:  ,  •■ 


1961 


1966 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


19 


ALUMNI  OFFICE  PROMOTIONS 


Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66, 
Becomes  Secretary-Treasurer 


Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66,  has  been  appointed  to 
succeed  Warren  B.  Zepp  as  secretary -treasurer  of 
the  Alumni  Association.  Hebert  had  been  assistant 
alumni  secretary  for  the  previous  two  years.  In 
making  the  announcement,  President  Hazzard  ex- 
pressed confidence  that  Hebert  would  carry  on  in 
continuing  to  help  in  increasing  alumni  participa- 
tion in  WPI  activities. 

Hebert,  a  1966  civil  engineering  graduate  of  the 
college,  had  taught  and  coached  at  the  Springfield, 
Vt.,  High  School  prior  to  working  for  the  associa- 
tion. As  assistant  alumni  secretary,  his  primary 
responsibility  had  been  in  chapter  meeting  pro- 
grams, the  alumni  fund  and  The  Journal.  With  the 
exception  of  The  Journal,  which  is  now  edited  by 
the  college  director  of  publications,  Russell  Kay, 
Hebert  will  be  continuing  in  his  past  responsibil- 
ities plus  the  general  administrative  duties  of  the 
association. 

A  rather  tall  individual,  Steve's  quick  smile  and 
wide  range  of  interest  provide  for  engaging  conver- 
sation, and  although  his  putting  on  the  golf  course 
may  leave  something  to  be  desired,  his  iron  game 
more  than  compensates.  Steve  enjoys  traveling,  and 
so  alumni  who  have  yet  to  meet  him  will  undoubt- 
edly have  the  opportunity  in  the  coming  year. 


20 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


WARREN  ZEPP 


MOVES  UP 


At  a  meeting  of  the  Alumni  Council,  held  on  June 
4,  President  Hazzard  announced  that  Warren  B. 
Zepp  had  been  appointed  special  assistant  to  the 
vice  president  for  university  relations.  In  his  new 
position,  Zepp  will  continue  working  with  alumni 
in  addition  to  organizing  a  second  career  program 
and  directing  a  revitalized  effort  in  deferred  giving. 

"Warren  Zepp's  service  to  WPI  as  secretary- 
treasurer  of  the  alumni  association  since  1954  has 
been  of  major  aid  to  the  college,"  said  President 
Hazzard.  "In  his  new  position  I  am  sure  that  he 
will  continue  to  make  important  contributions  to 
alumni  and  to  WPI." 

The  Alumni  Association  honored  Warren  on 
Saturday,  June  5,  at  the  annual  alumni  luncheon. 
He  was  presented  with  a  plaque  and  a  tape 
recorder.  Robert  E.  Higgs,  '40,  retiring  president  of 
the  association  said,  "This  token  can  hardly  repay 
you,  Warren,  for  all  the  things  you  have  done  for 
alumni  and  alma  mater.  I  do  note,  however,  that 
you  will  continue  your  work  at  WPI  in  the  coming 
years  and  thus  I'm  sure  there  will  be  another 
occasion  in  the  future." 

For  Zepp,  his  new  assignment  is  but  another 
benchmark  in  a  career  of  service  to  WPI.  Grad- 
uating in  1942  with  a  degree  in  mechanical 
engineering,  he  joined  the  faculty  of  the  college  the 
following  fall.  In  1947  he  was  appointed  an 
assistant  professor  and  in  1952  became  acting 
superintendent  of  the  Washburn  Shops.  The  shops 
were  in  their  declining  years  at  that  time,  having 
suffered  decreased  gross  sales  for  the  previous 
several  years.  Under  Zepp's  direction,  however, 
they  enjoyed  prosperity,  although  shortly  after  he 
left,  the  decision  was  reached  to  cease  their 
operation. 


The  Alumni  Association  appointed  him  secre- 
tary-treasurer in  1954  and  for  the  next  17  years  he 
continued  in  that  position.  Under  his  stewardship, 
the  association's  programs  expanded  at  a  steady 
pace.  Highlights  of  his  tenure  include  the  establish- 
ment of  a  complete  and  up-to-date  record-keeping 
system,  expansion  of  the  number  of  alumni  chap- 
ters and  frequency  of  meetings  and  the  expansion 
of  the  Alumni  Journal.  Also  during  this  period  the 
college  conducted  two  capital  gift  campaigns, 
raising  over  $24  million,  and  the  alumni  fund 
experienced  a  steady  growth,  climbing  from  an 
annual  income  of  $54,000  in  1954  to  $212,000 
this  past  year. 

Looking  back  on  it  all,  Zepp  can  undoubtedly 
recall  many  instances  of  special  satisfaction.  Being 
a  modest  man,  however,  he  declines  to  single  out  a 
specific  instance.  As  he  has  often  said,  half  to 
himself:  "It's  not  what  is  being  accomplished, 
although  that's  important.  It's  that  alumni  of 
different  generations  are  working  together,  getting 
to  know  each  other,  and  contributing  their  time 
and  skills  to  helping  WPI  become  a  better  college." 
Helping  to  make  that  possible  is  what  Warren  Zepp 
has  proved  very  skillful  at  these  past  17  years. 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


21 


The  19"7CK71  Annual  Alumni  Fund 


I 


Dear  WPI  Alumnus, 

Another  record  year,  with  total  alumni  gifts  and  pledges  of  $215,005,  plus  matching  gifts  of  $21,231.69,  totalling 
$236,236.69.  Despite  some  adverse  economical  and  sociological  factors,  our  record  shows  a  considerable  increase  in  support 
over  last  year.  My  pride,  I  am  certain,  is  shared  by  all  WPI  alumni  in  this  extraordinary  accomplishment.  This  was  not  the 
result  of  a  single  gift  or  chapter  but  rather  the  result  of  the  collective  efforts  of  over  750  alumni  volunteers  and  over  3000 
donors.  These  were  individuals  who  translated  their  love  and  loyalty  for  WPI  into  positive  action  —  action  that  will  greatly 
assist  the  college  in  meeting  the  needs  of  the  day  and  planning  for  the  future. 

It  was  particularly  gratifying  to  work  with  our  750  devoted  alumni  volunteers  who  made  many  sacrifices  to  make  the 
program  successful.  The  Fund  Keymen  are  to  be  congratulated  for  an  outstanding  organizational  effort,  as  are  the  Captains 
and  Contactmen  who  did  the  actual  soliciting. 

Looking  ahead  to  1971-72  a  goal  for  the  Alumni  Fund  of  $300,000  has  been  set  as  the  level  necessary  to  meet  needs 
which  are  very  real  and  ever  present.  I  am  confident  that  the  goal  can  be  attained.  It  will  be  a  difficult  assignment  and  it  will 
require  many  personal  sacrifices.  WPI  alumni,  however,  have  accepted  and  met  challenges  before  and  I  know  you  will  meet  this 
newest  challenge  to  help  WPI. 

3incerely, 


Irving  James  Donahue  Jr.,  '44 

Alumni  Fund  Board  Chairman,  1970-71 


Dear  WPI  Alumnus, 

1970-71  was  an  extraordinary  year  by  every  measure.  It  was  a  year  of  financial  crisis  for  colleges  throughout  the  cour 
which  the  media  have  been  busy  proclaiming.  WPI  has  been  no  exception,  but  we  have  met  a  test  and  have  come  through  v 
flying  colors.  The  loyalty  and  the  dedication  of  the  members  of  the  WPI  community  are  real  grounds  for  faith  in  the  futi 
and  confidence  in  all  that  WPI  has  done  and  will  be. 

This  faith  has  been  translated  into  action  on  the  part  of  many  —  in  fact,  self-sacrifice  as  well.  Our  faculty,  as  you  kn< 
accepted  a  year  of  wage  freeze,  a  difficult  thing  to  do  during  an  inflationary  economy.  They  did  so,  I  think,  with  a  real  se 
of  dedication  to  WPI  and  its  educational  role.  Alumni  made  similar  contributions  which  were  translated  into  an  Alumni  Fi 
exceeding  the  $200,000  level  for  the  first  time  in  the  history  of  the  college.  Foundations  have  also  exhibited  strong  confide 
in  WPI.  Major  grants  by  the  Carnegie  and  3loan  Foundations  in  support  of  our  programs  are  most  significant. 

Of  great  help  is  a  positive  admissions  picture  at  WPI  just  as  other  engineering  colleges  seem  to  be  getting  negative  resu 
The  WPI  Plan  and  the  personal  help  of  many  of  you  have  given  us  a  higher  than  usual  rate  of  acceptance  and  a  larger  freshn 
class  than  anticipated.  The  resulting  tuition  revenue  is  very  significant  in  our  financial  picture. 

The  generosity  which  you  have  demonstrated  and  which  brought  the  Fund  above  the  $200,000  level  is  deeply  apprecia 
by  everyone  on  the  Hill.  We  consider  it  a  vote  of  confidence  in  WPI  and  its  leadership  role  in  the  future.  The  Funds  will  ena 
us  not  only  to  provide  the  best  engineering  education  available,  but  to  continue  to  improve  WPI's  educational  program  : 
community.  Especially  important  are  the  Alumni  $cholarships  -  to  WPI  and  the  students  receiving  them. 

In  particular,  I  extend  my  sincere  thanks  to  Jim  Donahue,  the  entire  Alumni  Fund  Board,  and  the  hundreds  of  enthusia; 
and  devoted  alumni  volunteers  who  made  this  record-breaking  fund  possible. 


22 


George  W.  Hazzard 
President 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


VOLUNTEER  WORKERS 


Keymen 


.  Norman  Alberti 

•24 

■I.  Slayton  Altenburg 

•65 

3.  Albert  Anderson 

'51 

>aul  W.  Bayliss 

'60 

jabriel  O.  Bedard 

•28 

ames  Bush,  Jr. 

'46 

lenry  J.  Camosse 

•53 

Valter  J.  Charow 

'49 

Itephen  D.  Donahue,  Jr. 

'63 

'hilip  G.  Duffy 

•46C 

•heodore  J.  Englund 

'28 

talph  D.  Gelling 

'63 

).  Arnold  Hansen 

'25 

'hilip  J.  Hopkinson 

'66 

Seorge  Jeas 

'52 

)avid  A.  Johnson 

•60 

Idmond  H.  Judd 

'50 

ames  K.  Karalekas 

'58 

;nfried  T.  Larson 

'22 

rilliam  M.  Lloyd,  II 

'51 

harles  W.  Mello 

'61 

oseph  J.  Osvald 

'65 

.ichard  D.  Popp 

'54 

.aymond  J.  Remillard 

•49 

ames  E.  Rich 

'51 

ouis  J.  Rossi 

'61 

tephen  J.  Spencer 

'49 

.oger  W.  Swanson 

'51 

ohn  M.  Szymanski 

•62 

ictor  H.  Thulin 

'42 

leorge  A.  Walker 

'22 

aul  C.  Yankauskas 

'42 

CAPTAINS 

.obert  H.  Alberti 

'26 

obert  E.  Allen 

'42 

anathan  B.  Allured 

'42 

.  Curtis  Ambler 

'42 

hester  L.  Anderson,  Jr. 

'49 

Michael  Anderson 

'64 

William  W.  Asp 

'32 

Ihristian  S.  Baehrecke 

'56 

-arold  A.  Barnes 

'26 

[icholas  J.  Barone 

'65 

David  E.  Beach 

'53 

lharles  D.  Berry 

'42 

leter  K.  Bertsch 

'59 

Penis  K.  Berube 

'65 

tenneth  R.  Blaisdell 

'40 

|oy  F.  Bourgault 

'42 

111  G.  Braley,  Jr. 

'48 

Kugh  M.  Brautigam 

'43 

falter  H.  Bretthauer,  Jr. 

'51 

Bedney  B.  Brown 

'55 

laul  J.  Brown 

'50 

lllen  L.  Brownlee 

'33 

Ldward  J.  Burke 

'24 

ldward  F.  Cahalen 

'27 

frilliam  B.  Carpenter 

'50 

1.  Eugene  Center 

'30 

frilliam  C.  Clark 

'37 

Salter  F.  Conlin,  Jr. 

'46 

pseph  J.  Conroy,  Jr. 

'46C 

pseph  F.  Coveney 

'59 

ponald  G.  Craig 

'57 

[eil  J.  Crowley 

'50 

tordon  F.  Crowther 

'37 

Frederick  Deboer 

'53 

1.  Robert  Dieterle 

'48 

leter  C.  Dooley,  Jr. 

'44 

lobert  E.  Dunklee,  Jr. 

'40 

|«avid  R.  Ekstrom 

'63 

Inthony  E.  Engstrom 

•59 

lawrence  N.  Escott 

•63 

lharles  R.  Fay 

'30 

leland  H.  Fisler 

'30 

liale  E.  Flint 

'29 

l.afael  R.  Gabarro 

'51 

Irancis  J.  Gamari 

'54 

j.ichard  A.  Garvais 

'63 

l.obert  V.  Genereux 

'68 

Ihilip  D.  Giantris 

'65 

1/illiam  H.  Gill,  Jr. 

'61 

Pouglass  D.  Gladstone 

'61 

Lllan  Glazer 

'47 

1'.  Clark  Goodchild,  Jr. 

•40 

Ilichael  H.  Graham 

'61 

Lime  J.  Grenier 

'51 

tonald  J.  Grenier 

•55 

1..  Reed  Grimwade 

'50 

liarold  Gruen 

'49 

lacob  J.  Hagopian 

'39 

loseph  M.  Halloran,  Jr. 

'40 

Karle  A.  N.  Hallstrom 

'50 

Ifilliam  S.  C.  Henry 

•43 

lohn  H.  Herron 

'61 

lames  A.  HiUman 

'24 

leter  H.  Horstmann 

'55 

llarry  A.  Hoyen,  Jr. 

'63 

liarold  G.  Hunt 

'20 

■Vsjed  J.  Jalil 

'61 

tonald  E.  Jodoin 

'68 

loseph  H.  Johnson,  Jr. 

'46 

lirian  J.  Kelly 

'55 

l)onald  Kerr 

'65 

Robert  Kieltyka  '59 

Douglas  W.  Klauber  '68 

Victor  E.  Kohman  '43 

Robert  P.  Kostka  '63 

William  M.  Land,  Jr.  '48 

Richard  B.  Leon  '66 

Alfred  L.  Letoumeau  '49 

Walter  E.  Levine  '53 

Daniel  L.  Lintz  '49 

Linn  M.  Lockwood  '32 

John  B.  Lojko  '63 

Lester  H.  Longton,  Jr.  '49 

Roger  H.  Maddocks  '63 

Francis  W.  Madigan,  Jr.  '53 

Daniel  J.  Maguire  '66 

Stanley  J.  Majka  '41 

George  A.  Marston  '30 

Frank  L.  Mazzone  '46D 

Charles  F.  McDonough  '55 

Charles  W.  McElroy  '34 

Donald  M.  McNamara  '55 

Guy  D.  Metcalf  '49 

Donald  L.  Mongeon  '62 

Patrick  T.  Moran  '65 

Albert  N.  Narter  '30 

Howard  I.  Nelson  '54 

Henry  W.  Nowick  '56 

Edward  A.  Obermeyer  '65 

Thomas  P.  O'Connor  '53 

Roger  R.  Osell  '54 

John  C.  O'Toole  '49 

Joseph  F.  Paparella  '56 

Mahendrakumar  B.  Patel  '69 

Lawrence  A.  Penoncello  '66 

Neal  D.  Peterson  '51 

Chandler  P.  Pierce  '37 

Andrew  L.  Piretti  '68 

Edward  J.  Powers,  Jr.  '60 

Russell  D.  Purrington  '32 

Roger  E.  B.  Randall  '37 

William  C.  Reeves  '49 

Bernard  V.  Ricciardi  '58 

Hugh  M.  Robinson  '49 

Saul  Robinson  '20 

Donald  C.  Root  '61 

Melvyn  L.  Sack  '66 

John  D.  Saunier  '49 

Randall  P.  Saxton  '26 

George  W.  Schott  '46D 

Richard  B.  Scott  '54 

Paul  A.  Sharon  '62 

Edwin  Shivell  '54 

Brian  Sinder  '64 

Donald  R.  Skeffington  '49 

Dennis  E.  Snay  '63 

Vartkes  Sohigian  '51 

George  V.  Spires,  III  '64 

Mabbott  B.  Steele  '26 

J.  Larry  Stewart  '46 

Donald  F.  Stockwell  '51 

William  T.  Swanson,  II  '64 

Ronald  F.  Swenson  '59 

Norman  J.  Taupeka  '58 

Harry  Terkanian  '40 

Bernard  L.  Tetreault  '60 

Arthur  D.  Tripp,  Jr.  '36 

William  W.  Tunnicliffe  '43 

Walter  W.  Tuthill  '33 

Steven  A.  Udell  '70 
Richard  M.  Underwood,  Jr.    '46 

Henry  A.  VasU  '53 

Harold  K.  Vickery  '35 

Paul  R.  Vilandre  '58 

George  P.  Vittas  '63 

Spiro  L.  Vrusho  '57 

Richard  K.  Wagner  '63 

Gordon  E.  Walters  '55 

William  E.  Wiley  '41 

CONTACT  MEN 

George    T.    Abdow  '53 

James      S.      Adams  '49 

Dean       W.       Alden  '22 

Charles     C.      Allen  '49 

Walter  D.  Allen,  Jr.  '49 

Raymond  L.  Alvey,  Jr.  '50 

Clarence  W.  Anderson  '34 

Frederick  A.  Anderson         '42 
Gary  M.  Anderson  '66 

Gordon  C.  Anderson  '44 

Wlllson  C.  Applegate  '49 

Walter  G.  Arell  '63 

Richard  A.  Atwood  '48 

William  E.  Bachmann  '50 

William  H.  Bailey  '59 

Theodore  A.  Balaska  '46B 

Robert  C.  Balcer  '69 

Robert  A.  Balducci  '68 

Leon  H.  Bassett  '51 

Joseph  V.  Beaulac  '63 

Richard  G.  Bedard  '57 

Robert  D.  Behn  '63 

Albert  O.  Bell  '33 

John  B.  Bell,  Jr.  '41 

L.  Thomas  Benoit,  Jr.  '66 

Robert  A.  Berg  '59 


Paul  H.  Bergstrom  '38 

Gregory  F.  Berry  '65 

Donald  F.  Berth  '57 

Hamendra  R.  Bhatt  '69 

Max  Bialer  '40 

Robert  A.  Bierweiler  '43 

Wellington  H.  Bingham  '22 

William  R.  Bingham  '46B 

O.  William  Biomlund  '65 

Peter  G.  Bladen  '70 

Wayne  E.  Blanchard  '68 

Earl  M.  Bloom,  Jr.  '55 

Lester  A.  Bolton,  Jr.  '42 

Paul  W.  Booth  '34 

Lawrence  B.  Borst  '49 

Gary  E.  Bossak  '67 

Richard  S.  Boutelle  '26 

Robert  J.  Boyea  '58 

Edward  J.  Brabazon  '64 

Robert  L.  Bradley  '68 

John  J.  Braun  '66 
Daniel  F.  Brosnahan,  Jr.        '62 

Alan  D.  Burke  '55 

Clifford  W.  Burwick  '56 

John  K.  Busada  '39 

Edward  M.  Cahill  '55 

Martin  G.  Caine  '37 

William  Calder,  III  '61 

John  C.  Calhoun  '55 

Russell  H.  Callahan  '17 

Richard  A.  Calvert  '66 

John  F.  Campanella  '70 

Pasquale  Campanella  '68 

Richard  J.  Caprioli  '68 

Allan  E.  Carlson  '57 

Allen  W.  Case,  Jr.  '64 

Robert  R.  Cassanelli  '62 

Paul  M.  Castle  '66 

Leslie  J.  Chaffee  '16 

Robert  E.  Chapman  '21 

Allan  H.  Chase  '39 

Robert  A.  Chechile  '60 

Everett  S.  Child,  Jr.  '50 

Robert  Chin  '50 

Rasiklal  V.  Chokshi  '70 

Joseph  N.  Christian  '42 

Carroll  B.  Church  '49 

Marcel  H.  Clavien  '63 

Richard  W.  Cloues  '38 

John  W.  Cnossen  '55 

Robert  J.  Coates  '66 

Loring  Coes,  Jr.  '36 

Edwin  B.  Coghlin,  Jr.  '56 

Lawrence  J.  Cohen  '60 

Hubert  M.  Cole,  Jr.  '62 

Robert  J.  Collette  '68 

Arnold  M.  Cook  '29 

John  R.  Corf  '46 

Allan  J.  Costantin  '54 

James  D.  Coulopoulos  '55 

Leo  F.  Coumoyer  '59 

Robert  C.  Crawford  '61 

Frank  A.  Crosby,  Jr.  '40 

Ernest  M.  Crowell  '34 

Edward  L.  Cure  '64 

Thomas  J.  Curry  '66 

Paul  M.  Dalton  '58 

Bernard  R.  Danti  '56 

Rajnikant  P.  Dave  '63 

Clifford  H.  Daw,  Jr.  '59 

Walter  K.  Deacon  '42 

Francis  Defalco  '58 

Albert  M.  Demont  '31 

Lawrence  F.  Dennis  '55 

Harold  O.  Denzer,  Jr.  '58 

Ronald  J.  Dill  '67 

John  A.  Dillon,  Jr.  '51 

Fidele  L.  Dipippo  '60 

John  R.  Dobie  '29 

William  B.  Dodge  '42 

Frederick  E.  Drake  '55 

Ronald  W.  Dufries  '61 

Henry  J.  Dumas,  Jr.  '56 

Terrence  M.  Dupuis  '60 

Larry  Dworkin  '58 

Gerald  T.  Dyer  '56 

Magnus  J.  Einarson  '58 

David  M.  Elovitz  '53 

George  E.  Engman  '50 

Charles  R.  Ennis  '64 

Richard  E.  Epstein  '63 

Eric  W.  Essen  '42 

Michael  J.  Essex,  Jr.  '52 

Paul  E.  Evans  '48 

Lee  P.  Farnsworth  '43 

Francis  H.  Fay  '50 

Robert  G.  Ferguson  '48 

Albert  G.  Ferron  '57 

Theodore  L.  Fish  '31 

Warren  H.  Fitzer  '45 

Robert  W.  Fitzgerald  '53 

Frank  J.  Fleming  '28 

John  Ford,  Jr.  '42 

Carroll  D.  Forristall  '26 

Kendall  F.  Forsberg  '53 

Clifford  J.  Forster,  Jr.  '51 


Alan  S.  Foss 

'52 

Charles  S.  Frary,  Jr. 

'34 

J.  Perry  Fraser 

'43 

Earl  T.  Fratus 

'63 

Norman  M.  French,  Jr. 

'48 

Philip  M.  French,  Jr. 

'58 

Charles  I.  Friedman 

'57 

Seymour  L.  Friedman 

'57 

Michael  M.  Galbraith 

'58 

Bradley  T.  Gale 

'64 

Edward  L.  Gallini 

'57 

Frederick  A.  Gammans 

'48 

David  R.  Geoffroy 

'60 

J.  Howard  Germain 

'29 

William  F.  Gess,  Jr. 

'58 

Ralph  H.  Gilbert 

•30 

Donald  J.  Girard 

'46C 

Warren  P.  Gleason 

'26 

Irwin  L.  Goodchild,  Jr. 

'50 

Robert  W.  Goodfader 

'60 

Bennett  E.  Gordon,  Jr. 

'65 

Robert  E.  Gordon 

'43 

Saul  Gordon 

'50 

Robert  H.  Goretti 

•62 

Robert  A.  Green 

'48 

Allen  H.  Gridley,  Jr. 

'38 

Stephen  Z.  Gunter 

'57 

Charles  P.  Gure 

•50 

Gerald  A.  Gutman 

'64 

Donald  L.  Hager 

'26 

Raymond  R.  Hagglund 

'56 

Richard  G.  Haiec 

'56 

Robert  R.  Hale 

'61 

Jerald  N.  Hamernick 

'62 

John  P.  Harding.  Jr. 

'47 

Sheldon  C.  Harriman 

'57 

Sidney  R.  Harvey 

'53 

William  H.  Haslett,  Jr. 

'51 

Joseph  R.  Hastings 

'36 

Richard  E.  Hathaway 

'50 

Bradford  F.  Hawley 

'51 

Ronald  C.  Hayden 

66 

Herbert  J.  Hayes,  Jr. 

'51 

Roswell  J.  Heald 

'62 

Richard  L.  Healer 

'66 

Charles  M.  Healey,  Jr. 

'26 

David  G.  Healey 

'69 

Frederick  P.  Helm 

'67 

Carl  P.  Hershfield 

'48 

Lawson  T.  Hill,  Jr. 

'50 

Robert  W.  Hoag 

'59 

Ralph  Hodgkinson 

'31 

Allen  H.  Hoffman 

'63 

William  H.  Holmes 

'61 

Robert  J.  Horrigan 

'55 

Holbrook  L.  Horton 

'29 

Thomas  Houston 

'60 

Richard  E.  Howard 

'51 

Richard  B.  Hoyt 

'59 

John  W.  Hughes 

'39 

George  L.  Humphrey 

'65 

Thomas  F.  Humphrey 

'59 

Alfred  E.  Irelan 

'61 

Lionel  J.  Irvine 

'58 

William  A.  Jobert 

'65 

David  C.  Johnson 

'66 

John  W.  Johnson 

'61 

Stanley  F.  Johnson 

'26 

William  A.  Johnson 

'56 

Chandler  W.  Jones 

'26 

William  F.  Jordan,  Jr. 

'56 

Stephen  K.  Kaiser 

'66 

Ronald  D.  Kangas 

•58 

Samuel  B.  Kaplan 

•39 

Richard  A.  Kashnow 

•63 

Francis  E.  Kearney 

'50 

Paul  J.  Keating 

'64 

Averill  S.  Keith 

'43 

Alan  Kennedy 

'46B 

Francis  E.  Kennedy,  Jr. 

'63 

Owen  W.  Kennedy,  Jr. 

'45 

Donald  E.  Kirk 

'59 

Earl  C.  Klaubert 

'52 

Norman  G.  Klaucke 

'41 

Ronald  P.  Klay 

'64 

C.  Stanley  Knight 

'32 

Keith  L.  Knowlton 

'66 

Chester  S.  Kolaczyk 

'52 

Paul  S.  Krantz,  Jr. 

'64 

Donald  M.  Krauss 

'52 

Roger  R.  Lafontaine 

'60 

Erling  Lagerholm 

'44 

Stephen  J.  Lak,  Jr. 

'67 

Roderic  C.  Lancey 

•51 

Roger  W.  Lane 

'51 

Spencer  K.  Lang 

•40 

Michael  R.  Latina 

'68 

John  A.  Leach,  Jr. 

'40 

Luther  C.  Leavitt 

'34 

Joseph  D.  Leblanc 

'62 

John  W.  Lebourveau 

'44 

John  K.  A.  Leland 

'55 

John  B.  Lewis 

'61 

Frank  R.  Lindberg 

'41 

Charles  Lipson 

•60 

Thomas  Y.  Liu 

'67 

William  W.  Locke  '30 

S.  Paul  London  '54 

Calvin  F.  Long  '46 

George  H.  Long,  Jr.  '57 

Richard  A.  Loomis  '55 

Albert  H.  Lorentzen  '51 

Vilho  A.  Lucander  '56 

Edward  A.  Luiz  '49 

Peter  H.  Lukesh  '66 

Robert  G.  Lunger  '53 

James  S.  MacKay  '53 

Homer  E.  MacNutt,  Jr.  '49 

Francis  W.  Maher,  Jr.  '68 

Robert  M.  Malbon  '63 

John  M.  Malianian  '52 

Winthrop  S.  Marston  '26 

Peter  J.  Martin  '62 

James  S.  Mathews  '55 

Norman  B.  Maynard  '50 

F.  Douglas  McKeown  '41 

Peter  F.  McKittrick  '68 

Orren  B.  McKnight,  Jr.  '53 

William  R.  McLeod,  Jr.  '58 

Robert  W.  McMaster  '32 

Raymon  F.  Meader  '20 

William  E.  Meadowcroft  '48 

Hemant  D.  Mehta  '70 

Eustace  I.  Merrill  '27 

Richard  T.  Messinger  '40 

Richard  S.  Meyer  '60 

Ralph  V.  Miller,  Jr.  '64 

Stanley  L.  Miller  '51 

Allen  M.  Mintz  '48 

Robert  W.  Mitchell  '42 

William  P.  Mitnik  '34 

John  P.  Morrill  '53 

Stephen  P.  Mozden,  Jr.  '63 

Gerald  A.  Mullaney  '61 

Richard  M.  Murphy  '65 

William  J.  Museler  '64 

Arthur  Nedvin  '57 

Clifton  C.  Nickerson  '49 

Roland  L.  Nims  '35 
Donald  R.  Nitsche  '66 

John  Nizamoff  '32 

Elmer  E.  Nutting  '39 

Philip  J.  Nyquist  '50 

Daniel  F.  O'Grady  '30 

Reginald  J.  Odabashian         '28 
Daniel  F.  O'Grady,  Jr.  '61 

Michael  F.  Oliver  '65 

Richard  C.  Olson  '50 

William  J.  O'Neil  '58 

Bradford  W.  Ordway  '39 

Robert  A.  Padgett  '50 

Richard  H.  Palm  '69 

Cary  A.  Palulis  '69 

Benjamin  Pano  '52 

Alfred  G.  Parker  '33 

James  A.  Parker,  Jr.  '63 

John  R.  Parker  '30 

Russell  W.  Parks  '41 

Phillip  L.  Parmenter  '63 

Shashikant  M.  Patel  '69 

William  F.  Payne  '39 

Robert  W.  Pease  '42 

James  Z.  Peepas  '49 

W.  Harvey  Perreault  '33 

Eric  L.  Peterson  '51 

Herbert  S.  Peterson  '53 

Lawrence  S.  Peterson  '26 

Wayne  L.  Pierce  '68 

Murad  S.  Piligian  '49 

William  J.  Ploran  '49 

Donald  L.  Poggi  '51 

Gregory  E.  Pollack  '69 

Wayne  D.  Ponik  '65 

Stannard  M.  Potter  '41 

John  W.  Powers  '61 

David  A.  Pratt  '56 

Richard  A.  Prokop  '37 

David  W.  Prosser  '61 

Steven  A.  Quart  '56 

John  H.  Quinn,  Jr.  '42 

David  M.  Raab  '61 

Leonard  F.  Rago  '60 

William  M.  Rauha  '27 

William  J.  Remillong,  Jr.       '66 
Manuel  Renasco  '46D 

Lester  J.  Reynolds,  Jr.  '50 

Marcus  A.  Rhodes,  Jr.  '40 

Stanley  S.  Ribb  '41 

Frederic  D.  Riley  '63 

Samuel  Ringel  '47 

Kenneth  N.  Robbins  '64 

Roger  P.  Roberge  '45 

John  J.  Robinson  '44 

John  E.  Rogerson  '42 

Arthur  S.  Ross,  III  '63 

Thomas  H.  Rothwell  '53 

Paul  A.  Rougeau  '63 

Eugene  L.  Rubin  '53 

Edgar  P.  Rundlett,  Jr.  '66 

Robert  E.  Russell  '46B 

Merrill  Rutman  '61 

John  C.  Ryder  '64 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


23 


Malcolm  G.  Safford  '38 

Edward  P.  Saling,  Jr.  '50 

William  J.  Samborski  '35 

Edward  G.  Samolis  '52 

Richard  P.  Samolis  '53 

Donald  R.  Sanders  '49 

Eli  S.  Sanderson  '50 

Reynald  J.  Sansoucy  '55 

Vito  J.  Sarli,  Jr.  '52 

Edward  A.  Saulnier  '59 

Walter  C.  Scanlon  '50 

Ralph  P.  Schlenker  '57 

Richard  G.  Schmitt  '52 

Bruce  E.  Schoppe  '60 

Marc  E.  Schweig  '70 

Stephen  Selinger  '69 

Ralph  E.  Sellars,  Jr.  '58 

John  C.  L.  Shabeck,  Jr.  '33 


Burton  Shair  '65 

William  J.  Shepherd  '62 

Louis  Shulman  '50 

Eugene  Shumski  '34 

Robert  C.  Simmonds,  Jr.  '58 

John  H.  Sistare  '63 

Charles  T.  Smith  '26 

Harold  F.  Smith  '56 

Richard  D.  Souren  '61 

Nathan  M.  Southwick,  Jr.  '27 

Thomas  W.  Spargo  '64 

Thomas  E.  Stamoulis  '56 

George  E.  Stannard  '43 

Anthony  B.  Stefanov  '51 

A.  Kenneth  Stewart,  Jr.  '50 

Edward  C.  Stone  '60 

John  P.  Stone  '65 

Norman  P.  Stotz  '58 


Louis  E.  Stratton  '39 

David  E.  Stuart  '57 

Joseph  W.  Sullivan  '61 

Lawrence  N.  Sullivan  '67 

Robert  E.  Sullivan  '52 

Robert  B.  Sundheim  '58 

John  B.  Sutliffe  '37 

Eric  M.  Sweed  '67 

Sumner  B.  Sweetser  '33 

Bernard  D.  Szarek  '54 

Henry  D.  Taylor  '51 

Marshall  B.  Taylor  '68 

William  E.  Taylor  '27 

Robert  H.  Telzerow  '44 

John  A.  Templeton  '45 

Harry  W.  Tenney,  Jr.  '56 

Stanley  M.  Terry  '40 

Charles  J.  Thompson  '26 


George  T.  Thrasher  '67 

Howard  C.  Tinkham  '49 

Raymond  J.  Tivnan  '59 

Gerard  A.  Toupin  '66 

Robert  L.  Towne  '29 

Ralph  R.  Trotter  '61 

Joseph  P.  Tulka  '31 

William  J.  Tunney  '62 

John  G.  Underhill  '44 

Kenneth  S.  Vardion  '60 

Frank  A.  Verprauskus  '61 

Kenneth  J.  Virkus  '61 

Otto  A.  Wahlrab  '54 

Everett  L.  Walker  '59 

Bruce  R.  Webber  '65 

David  K.  Weiner  '48 

Robert  P.  Weis  '57 

Howard  P.  Whittle  '54 


Robert  C.  Whittum 
Philip  A.  Wild 
Charles  E.  Wilkes 
Robert  G.  Williams 
Samuel  W.Williams.  Jr. 
Richard  B.  Wilson 
Robert  F.  Wilson 
Joseph  R.  Winslow 
Wayne  T.  Wirtanen 
Russell  W.  Wood 
David  F.  Wright 
William  H.  Wyman 
Alan  P.  Zabarsky 
Robert  C.  Zahnke 
William  Zarr 
Arthur  Zavarella 
William  E.  Zetterlund 


CHAPTER 

Berkshire 

Boston    

Central  New  York 

Chicago         

Cincinnati  

Cleveland  

Connecticut  Valley 

Detroit  

Eastern  Connecticut         

Hartford 

Hudson-Mohawk  

Los  Angeles 

New  Haven 

New  York  

North  Shore 

Northern  California  

Northern  New  Jersey 

Pacific  Northwest 

Philadelphia 

Pittsburgh  

Rhode  Island  

Rochester-Genesee 

Southeastern  

St.  Louis 

Washington 

Western  New  York 

Wilmington 

Worcester  

Out  of  District 

Others  &  Honorary  

TOTALS 

Matching  Gifts  (Corporate  Gifts  To  WPI  To  Match 

Grand  Total 


District  Summary  —  Final  Report  1970-71  Annual  Alumni  Fund 


No.  in 

No.  of 

RANK 

Chpt. 

Gifts 

%  Giving 

21 

70 

19 

27 

16 

943 

292 

31 

13 

107 

36 

34 

26 

115 

27 

23 

3 

47 

25 

53 

2 

108 

58 

54 

10 

358 

133 

37 

7 

96 

42 

44 

29 

129 

27 

21 

18 

664 

194 

29 

12 

147 

51 

35 

18 

268 

77 

29 

26 

372 

84 

23 

20 

549 

152 

28 

24 

328 

81 

25 

5 

179 

85 

47 

4 

457 

229 

50 

16 

36 

11 

31 

23 

282 

74 

26 

9 

100 

41 

41 

11 

331 

120 

36 

8 

111 

47 

42 

25 

129 

31 

24 

5 

19 

9 

47 

14 

395 

126 

32 

1 

82 

47 

57 

21 

122 

33 

27 

14 

1.525 

491 

32 

28 

1,573 

342 

22 

— 

17 

17 

— 

9,299 

3,001 

32% 

Gifts  From  Alu 

mni). 

Average 

Total  Gifts 

Gift 

$    490.00 

$  25.79 

22,071.00 

75.59 

1,723.00 

47.86 

4,685.00 

173.52 

1,145.00 

45.80 

3,260.00 

56.21 

10,853.00 

81.60 

2,282.00 

54.33 

1,070.00 

39.63 

10,917.00 

56.27 

3,111.00 

61.00 

5,270.00 

68.44 

5,200.00 

61.90 

11,854.00 

77.99 

3,927.00 

48.48 

5,473.00 

64.39 

16,983.00 

74.16 

2,428.00 

220.73 

3,100.00 

41.89 

4,430.00 

108.05 

4,519.00 

37.66 

1.607.00 

34.19 

1,560.00 

50.32 

513.00 

57.00 

13.137.00 

104.26 

1.995.00 

42.45 

1.642.00 

49.76 

36,278.00 

73.89 

30,892.00 

90.33 

2,590.00 

— 

$215,005.00 

$  71.64 

21.231.69 

$236,236.69 

24 


THE  WPI  JOURNAI 


MEMBERS  OF  CLUBS 


THE  PRESIDENT'S  CLUB 

James  E.  Smith  '06 

James  J.  Shea  '12 

Earl  C.  Hughes  '14 

George  W.  Smith,  Jr.  '15 

Alfred  W.  Francis  '17 

Benjamin  Luther  '18 

John  W.  Coghlin  '19 

Howard  S.  Foster  '19 

Ray  W.  Heffernan  '19 

George  R.  Rich  '19 

Edward  I.  Burleigh  '21 

William  L.  Martin  '21 

Richard  P.  Penfield  '21 

Lincoln  Thompson  '21 

Harold  B.  Whitmore  '21 

William  E.  Hanson  '32 

Henry  B.  Pratt  '32 

Howard  G.  Freeman  '40 

Leonard  H.  White  '41 

Irving  J.  Donahue,  Jr.  '44 

James  J.  Clerkin,  Jr.  '45 

Michael  M.  Galbraith  '58 


THE  DEAN'S  CLUB 

Frederic  R.  Butler  '20 

Myron  D.  Chace  '21 

Robert  E.  Chapman  '21 

Philip  K.  Davis  '21 

E.  Daniel  Johnson  '21 

Lyle  J.  Morse  '21 

Paul  S.  Sessions  '21 

Wayne  E.  Keith  '22 

Helge  S.  Johnson  '24 

David  C.  Bailey  '25 

Chandler  W.  Jones  '26 

Russell  G.  Whittemore  '27 

Carl  W.  Backstrom  '30 

Albert  N.  Narter  '30 

Albert  M.  Demont  '31 

Francis  S.  Harvey  '37 

J.  Morrison  Smith  '37 

Charles  C.  Bonin  '38 

William  B.  Wadsworth  '39 

Raymond  J.  Forkey  '40 

Robert  A.  Muix  '41 

Howard  C.  Warren  '42 

John  E.  Hossack  '46 

Peter  B.  Myers  '46B 

Robert  C.  Wolff  '51 


THE  JOHN  BOYNTON  CLUB 
Louise  I.  Doyle 

Richard  J.  Dearborn  '03 

Edmund  K.  Brown  '13 

Ralph  M.  Johnson  '15 

Moses  H.  Teaze  '17 

Norman  P.  Knowlton  '18 

Edward  J.  P.  Fisher  '21 

Cyril  Israel  '21 

Edward  Rose  '21 

B.  Clark  Shaw  '21 

Irving  R.  Smith  '21 

Paul  D.  Woodbury  '21 

Donald  B.  Wilson  '24 

Milton  E.  Berglund  '26 

Dwight  E.  Jones  '28 

William  M.  Lester  '28 

J.  Kendall  Fullerton  '29 

William  R.  Hutton  '29 

Russell  C.  Wiley  '29 

M.  Lawrence  Price  '30 

Nicholas  S.  Sculos  '31 

Herbert  A.  Stewart  '31 

Waldo  E.  Bass  '33 

Arthur  E.  Smith  '33 

Dwight  J.  Dwinell  '34 

Philip  C.  Sherburne  '34 
Frederick  W.  Mclntyre,  Jr.  '35 

William  R.  Steur  '35 

Arthur  D.  Tripp,  Jr.  '36 

Richard  F.  Burke,  Jr.  '38 

Wilder  R.  Carson  '39 

Bilke  A.  Schmidt  '39 

Donald  R.  Bates  '40 

George  W.  Knauff  '41 

Fred  S.  Moulton  '44 

Olavi  H.  Halttunen  '45 

James  Bush,  Jr.  '46 
■George  E.  Comstock,  III       '46 

I  William  R.  Grogan  '46 


Hazen  L.  Hoyt,  III 
Robert  S.  Jacobson 
Edmund  S.  Oshetsky 
Thomas  M.  McCaw 
Francis  W.  Madigan,  Jr. 
Lawrence  L.  Israel 
John  J.  McDonnell 
Ivan  V.  Beggs 


THE  CENTURY  CLUB 
Ellery  B.  Paine 
Winthrop  G.  Hall 
Edwin  M.  Roberts 
Harold  B.  Larned 
Mark  Eldredge 
Percy  M.  Hall 
Arthur  J.  Knight 
Percy  C.  Smith 
Herbert  M.  Carleton 
Leon  W.  Hitchcock 
George  A.  Barratt 
Oliver  B.  Jacobs 
Daniel  H.  Reamy 
Edmund  M.  Flaherty 
Earl  W.  Gleason 
Frederick  S.  Carpenter 
David  G.  Howard 
Harry  B.  Lindsay 
Norris  D.  Pease 
J.  Arthur  Planteroth 
Leon  H.  Rice 
Farquhar  W.  Smith 
Ellwood  N.  Hennessy 
George  Ross 
William  W.  Spratt 
Benjamin  B.  D'Ewart 
John  W.  Gleason 
Everett  Hutchins 
Raymond  P.  Lansing 
Douglas  F.  Miner 
E.  Taylor  Warren 
Carl  H.  Burgess 
Leslie  J.  Chaffee 
Frank  G.  Gifford 
Roland  D.  Home 
Robert  E.  Lamb 
James  C.  Walker 
Selden  T.  Williams 
Aurelio  E.  Zambarano 
Arthur  E.  Gorman 
Ronald  E.  Greene 
John  M.  Leggett 
Warren  W.  Parks 
Philip  C.  Pray 
Henry  W.  Sheldrick 
John  R.  Wheeler 
Levi  E.  Wheeler 
Walter  B.  Dennen 
George  C.  Griffith 
Carl  I.  Benson 
Thomas  B.  Rutherford 
Robert  C.  Sessions 
Paul  M.  Abbott 
Arvid  E.  Anderson 
Harold  G.  Hunt 
Burton  W.  Marsh 
Carlton  J.  O'Neil 
Robert  A.  Peterson,  Sr. 
George  L.  White 
Harold  S.  Black 
Comeluis  A.  Callahan 
Irving  M.  Desper 
Ralph  L.  Draper 
Robert  M.  Eldred 
Carroll  A.  Huntington 
Robert  W.  Perry 
Carl  E.  Skroder 
Foster  E.  Sturtevant 
John  W.  Williams 
Earl  H.  Winslow 
Charles  I.  Babcock 
Charles  N.  Clarkson 
Robert  W.  Cushman 
Weston  Hadden 
Lawrence  K.  Hyde 
Lloyd  F.  McGlincy 
Edwin  L.  Sholz 
J.  Carleton  Adams 
Edwin  B.  Coghlin 
Judson  M.  Goodnow 
Kenneth  E.  Hapgood 
Percival  E.  Meyer 
Howard  S.  Nutting 
Richard  H.  V.  Shaw 
Richard  Walberg 
J.  Norman  Alberti 
Edward  G.  Beardsley 
Leslie  J.  Hooper 
Simeon  C.  Leyland 
John  N.  Styffe 
James  C.  Irish 
Luther  B.  Martin 
Henry  L.  Mellen 


'46B 

L.  Ivan  Underwood 

'25 

'46B 

Richard  S.  Boutelle 

•26 

'46B 

Leonard  C.  Calder 

'26 

•46D 

Phillip  R.  Delphos 

'26 

'53 

Charles  M.  Healey,  Jr. 

'26 

'61 

Archie  J.  Home 

'26 

'62 

Eugene  M.  Hunter 

'26 

'68 

John  S.  Miller 

'26 

Charles  M.  Moran 

'26 

Donald  F.  Sears 

'26 

George  J.  Heckman 

'27 

Robert  E.  Johnson 

'27 

Walter  G.  Johnson 

'27 

'97 

Charles  F.  Monnier 

'27 

'02 

Charles  S.  Moore 

•27 

'04 

Carleton  R.  Sanford 

'27 

'05 

Frederick  H.  Knight 

'28 

'06 

Alexander  L.  Naylor 

'28 

'07 

Arthur  M.  Tarbox 

'28 

'07 

Charles  A.  Warren 

'28 

'07 

Nathaniel  Clapp 

'29 

'08 

J.  Howard  Germain 

'29 

'08 

Holbrook  L.  Horton 

'29 

'09 

Frank  R.  Joslin 

'29 

'10 

Halbert  E.  Pierce,  Jr. 

'29 

'10 

Joseph  R.  Rogers,  Jr. 

'29 

'11 

E.  Waldemar  Carlson 

'30 

'12 

C.  Eugene  Center 

'30 

'13 

Charles  H.  Cole 

'30 

'13 

John  W.  Conley 

'30 

'13 

William  W.  Locke 

'30 

'13 

George  A.  Marston 

'30 

'13 

Daniel  F.  O'Grady 

'30 

'13 

Fred  P.  Peters 

'30 

'13 

Philip  M.  Seal 

'30 

'14 

Warren  C.  Whittum 

'30 

'14 

Edward  J.  Bayon 

'31 

'14 

Robert  Bumstead 

'31 

'15 
'15 

Paul  H.  Fittz 

'31 

Milton  D.  Gleason 

'31 

'15 

A.  Wallace  Gove 

'31 

'15 

Jay  M.  Harpell 

'31 

'15 

Oliver  B.  Merrill 

'31 

'15 

Trueman  L.  Sanderson 

'31 

'16 

A.  Francis  Townsend 

'31 

'16 

Robert  S.  Williamson 

'31 

'16 

William  W.  Asp 

'32 

'16 

Paul  E.  Nelson 

•32 

'16 

Donald  W.  Putnam 

•32 

'16 

Robert  E.  Ferguson 

•33 

'16 

Kenneth  E.  Gleason 

'33 

'16 

Gilbert  U.  Gustafson 

'33 

'17 

Edwin  L.  Johnson 

'33 

'17 

Aram  Kalenian 

'33 

'17 

Alfred  G.  Parker 

'33 

'17 

Jeremiah  H.  Vail 

'33 

•17 

George  G.  Gleisberg 

'34 

'17 

Clayton  E.  Hunt,  Jr. 

'34 

'17 

John  H.  Keenan 

'34 

'17 

Luther  C.  Leavitt 

'34 

•18 

Charles  W.  McElroy 

'34 

'18 

William  E.  Mesh 

•34 

'19 

Raymond  H.  Neubauer 

'34 

'19 

Everett  F.  Sellew 

'34 

'19 

Gordon  P.  Whitcomb 

'34 

'20 

Edward  J.  Abendschein 

'35 

'20 

John  B.  Coyle 

'35 

'20 

James  J.  Gushaw 

'35 

'20 

Leonard  G.  Humphrey,  Jr 

'35 

'20 

Roland  L.  Nims 

'35 

'20 

Raymond  J.  Quenneville 

'35 

'20 

Emerson  J.  Robinson 

•35 

'21 

M.  Kent  Smith 

'35 

'21 

B.  Leighton  Wellman 

'35 

'21 

Plummer  Wiley 

'35 

•21 

Carleton  W.  Borden 

'36 

'21 

John  R.  Brand 

•36 

'21 

William  R.  Hannah 

'36 

'21 

John  J.  O'Donnell 

'36 

'21 

Stedman  W.  Smith 

'36 

'21 

Philip  G.  Atwood 

'37 

•21 

Martin  G.  Caine 

'37 

'21 

Gordon  F.  Crowther 

'37 

•22 

C.  Chapin  Cutler 

•37 

'22 

Morton  S.  Fine 

'37 

'22 

Caleb  D.  Hammond 

'37 

•22 

Charles  R.  Michel 

•37 

•22 

Richard  J.  Donovan 

'38 

'22 

Richard  M.  Elliott 

'38 

'22 

Walter  E.  Knapp 

'38 

•23 

John  G.  Lawrence 

'38 

'23 

Daniel  G.  Mazur 

'38 

'23 

Paul  M.  Murphy 

'38 

'23 

Raymond  J.  Perreault 

'38 

'23 

Francis  B.  Swenson 

•38 

'23 

Robert  M.  Taft 

'38 

'23 

Walter  L.  Abel 

•39 

'23 

Jack  F.  Boyd 

'39 

'24 

George  E.  Feiker,  Jr. 

'39 

•24 

Jacob  J.  Hagopian 

'39 

'24 

Gleason  W.  Jewett 

'39 

'24 

Arthur  H.  Mallon 

'39 

'24 

Robert  W.  Martin 

'39 

•25 

Ward  D.  Messimer 

'39 

'25 

Albert  A.  Nims,  Jr. 

•39 

'25 

Frans  E.  Strandberg 

•39 

Ralston  E.  Bates 
Malcolm  S.  Burton 
Russell  A.  Lovell,  Jr. 
Philip  E.  Meany 
Peter  A.  Muto 
Lawrence  C.  Neale 
Raymond  B.  Shiora 
S.  Merrill  Skeist 
Stanley  M.  Terry 
Alexanders.  Chodakowski 
George  A.  Cowan 
Kenneth  R.  Dresser 
Joseph  P.  Jurga 

F.  Douglas  McKeown 
Herman  Medwin 
Donald  F.  Palmer,  Jr. 
Russell  W.  Parks 
William  C.  Richardson 
Donald  E.  Smith 
William  E.  Wiley 
Robert  E.  Allen 

Roy  F.  Bourgault 
Philip  J.  Hastings 
Richard  H.  Kimball,  Jr. 
Frederick  W.  Lindblad 
Charles  H.  Parker 
John  E.  Rogerson 
John  P.  Wells 
Samuel  W.  Williams,  Jr. 
Warren  H.  Chaffee 
Richard  F.  Dyer 
J.  Perry  Fraser 
Earl  G.  Page,  Jr. 
Herbert  Asher 
C.  Edward  Bean 
David  M.  Field 
John  P.  Newton,  Jr. 
Paul  I.  Pressel 
Kimball  R.  Woodbury 
Edwin  G.  Baldwin 
Carl  C.  Clark 
Paul  M.  Craig,  Jr. 
Robert  M.  Edgerly 
Anson  C.  Fyler 
Howard  D.  Gerring 
Owen  W.  Kennedy,  Jr. 
Paul  N.  Kokulis 
Robert  E.  Scott 
Edward  R.  Zieve 
Robert  C.  Appenzeller 
Nestor  Brown,  Jr. 
Rodney  S.  Chase 
Truman  S.  Dayton 
Alpheus  M.  Farnsworth 
Robert  H.  Farwell 
William  R.  Grogan 
William  M.  Hovenesian 
Joseph  H.  Johnson,  Jr. 
Frederick  W.  Marvin 
Charles  M.  Richardson 
Carl  F.  Simon,  Jr. 
Herbert  H.  Slaughter,  Jr. 
Theodore  A.  Balaska 
Robert  B.  Davis 
Garabed  Hovhanesian 
Harry  J.  Mehrer,  Jr. 
Malcolm  A.  Morrison 
Julius  A.  Palley 
Albert  E.  Rockwood,  Jr. 
Edward  H.  Smith 
John  E.  Wilson 
Joseph  P.  Manna 
George  W.  Schott 
David  J.  Wright 
Allan  Glazer 
John  P.  Harding,  Jr. 
Samuel  Ringel 
Kenneth  H.  Truesdell 
John  W.  Ebbs 
Niel  I.  Fishman 
Albert  S.  Goldberg 
Sameer  S.  Hassan 
Thomas  F.  Hunter 
Clark  L.  Poland 
Kenneth  E.  Scott 
James  M.  Genser 
Daniel  L.  McQuillan 
Stephen  J.  Spencer 
Donald  Taylor 
Burl  S.  Watson,  Jr. 
John  H.  Williams 
Richard  G.  Beschle 
John  P.  Burgarella 
Henry  S.  C.  Cummings,  Jr. 
William  C.  Griggs 
R.  Reed  Grimwade 
Francis  E.  Kearney 
Richard  C.  Olson 
John  W.  Peirce 
John  C.  Slonczewski 

G.  Albert  Anderson 
Gerald  F.  Atkinson 
Leon  H.  Bassett 
Martin  G.  Bromberg 
Robert  N.  Cochran 
Rafael  R.  Gabarro 


'40 

Frank  A.  MacPherson 

•51 

'40 

Donald  F.  Stockwell 

'51 

'40 

Charles  F.  Crathern,  III 

•52 

'40 

Philip  B.  Crommelin,  Jr. 

'52 

'40 

Richard  T.  Gates 

'52 

'40 

Joseph  Jiunnies 

'52 

'40 

Donald  M.  Krauss 

'52 

•40 

John  M.  Tracy 

'52 

•40 

Richard  J.  Hall 

'53 

'41 

Anthony  J.  Ruksnaitis 

'53 

'41 

George  E.  Saltus 

'53 

'41 

David  T.  Van  Covem 

'53 

'41 

Robert  C.  Woodward 

'53 

'41 

Michael  S.  Zucker 

'53 

'41 

Paul  R.  Alasso 

'54 

'41 

Harry  L.  Mirick,  Jr. 

'54 

•41 

Werner  M.  Neupert 

'54 

'41 

Walter  A.  Reibling 

•54 

'41 

Edwin  Shivell 

'54 

'41 

James  D.  Coulopoulos 

'55 

'42 

Kenneth  H.  Russell 

'55 

'42 

Tarek  M.  A.  Shawaf 

'55 

'42 

Joseph  J.  Alekshun,  Jr. 

'56 

•42 

Clifford  W.  Burwick 

'56 

'42 

Edwin  B.  Coghlin,  Jr. 

•56 

'42 

Raymond  R.  Hagglund 

'56 

'42 

John  M.  Nash 

•56 

•42 

Henry  W.  Nowick 

'56 

'42 

David  A.  Pratt 

'56 

'43 

Thomas  O.  Wright 

'56 

'43 

Donald  F.  Berth 

'57 

'43 

John  W.  Braley,  Jr. 

'57 

'43 

Richard  J.  Ferguson 

'57 

'44 

Edward  J.  Moineau 

'57 

'44 

Arthur  Shahian 

'57 

'44 

David  E.  Stuart 

'57 

•44 

Spiro  L.  Vrusho 

'57 

'44 

Philip  M.  French,  Jr. 

'58 

'44 

Marian  C.  Knight 

'58 

'45 

Robert  A.  Moore 

'58 

'45 

James  A.  Alfieri 

'59 

'45 

Robert  Kieltyka 

'59 

'45 

John  G.  Leonidas 

'59 

'45 

Paul  W.  Bayliss 

'60 

'45 

Dwight  M.  Cornell 

'60 

'45 

Sang  K.  Lee 

'60 

'45 

John  S.  O'Connell,  Jr. 

'60 

'45 

Bernard  L.  Tetreault 

'60 

'45 

Bradley  E.  Hosmer 

'61 

'46 

John  W.  Powers 

'61 

'46 

Frederic  A.  Stevens 

'61 

'46 

Richard  H.  Vogel 

'61 

'46 

Bruce  W.  Woodford 

'61 

'46 

Keyren  H.  Cotter,  Jr. 

'62 

'46 

David  L.  Goodman 

'62 

'46 

Walker  T.  Thompson 

•62 

'46 

John  R.  Tufano 

'62 

'46 

Robert  P.  Wilder 

'62 

'46 

Joseph  V.  Bucciaglia 

'63 

'46 

Robert  H.  Gowdy 

'63 

'46 

Robert  J.  Hermes 

'63 

'46 

Robert  M.  Malbon 

'63 

'46B 

Gordon  O.  Stearns 

'63 

'46B 

George  P.  Vittas 

'63 

'46B 

J.  Michael  Anderson 

'64 

'46B 

Thomas  S.  Baron 

'64 

'46B 

Thomas  J.  Modzelewski 

'64 

'46B 

Frederic  C.  Scofield,  III 

'64 

'46B 

Walter  J.  Ruthenburg,  III 

'65 

'46B 

David  M.  Schwaber 

'65 

'46C 

Stephen  J.  Hebert 

•66 

'46D 

Peter  G.  Stebbins 

•66 

'46D 

Robert  G.  Balmer 

•68 

'46D 

Gerard  E.  Caron 

'68 

'47 

Eric  K.  Durling 

'68 

•47 

Thomas  A.  Gelormino 

'68 

'47 

Craig  F.  Bradley 

'69 

•47 

Robert  W.  Mayer 

'69 

'48 

'48 

'48 

'48 

•48 

'48 

'48 

'49 

'49 

'49 

'49 

'49 

'49 

'50 

■50 

'50 

'50 

•50 

'50 

•50 

'50 

'50 

•51 

'51 

'51 

'51 

•51 

'51 

fHE  WPI  JOURNAL 


25 


DEGREE  DEPARTMENT  GIVING  ANALYSIS 


Percent 

Total 

Average 

Total  Alumni 

Contributors 

Participation 

Contributions 

Gift 

Civil  Engineering 

1,236 

400 

32.4 

$  24,440 

$  61.10 

Chemical  Engineering 

941 

262 

27.8 

10,695 

40.82 

Chemistry 

489 

187 

38.2 

20,334 

108.74 

Electrical  Engineering 

2,457 

779 

31.7 

67,231 

86.30 

General  Science 

18 

2 

11.1 

520 

260.00 

Management  Engineering 

114 

19 

16.7 

400 

21.05 

Mathematics 

163 

26 

16.0 

1,178 

45.31 

Mechanical  Engineering 

2,729 

976 

35.8 

73,646 

75.46 

Physics 

319 

69 

21.6 

3,397 

49.23 

Others 

13 

0 

0 

0 

0 

Totals 

8,479 

2,720 

32.1 

201,841 

74.21 

Non-Degree  Holders 

820 

281 

34.3 

13,164 

46.85 

Grand  Totals 

9,299 

3,001 

32.3 

$215,005 

$  71.64 

CONTRIBUTORS  TO  1970-1971  ANNUAL  FUND 


Honorary  Alumni 

IN  MEMORIAM 
George  H.  Haynes 


1889 

IN  MEMORIAM 
Myron  J.  Bigelow 


1897 

2  MEMBERS 
1  Contributor 
Eilery  B.  Paine 


1898 

1  MEMBER 
1  Contributor 
*Frank  C.  Harrington 

1901 

7  MEMBERS 

3  Contributors 
*Theo  Brown 

James  W.  Freeman 
*  George  K,  Howe 

1902 

4  MEMBERS 

1  Contributor 
♦Winthrop  G.  Hall 

1903 

10  MEMBERS 

2  Contributors 
Richard  J.  Dearborn 
Henry  J.  Potter 

1904 

4  MEMBERS 
2  Contributors 
Seth  R.  Clark 
Edwin  M.  Roberts 


1905 

7  MEMBERS 
2  Contributors 
•Harold  B.  Larned 
Ernest  C.  Morse 

1906 

13  MEMBERS 

5  Contributors 

Elbert  C.  Aldrich 

Mark  Eldredge 
•Sidney  W.  Farnsworlh 

Franklin  C.  Green 
•James  E.  Smith 

1907 

24  MEMBERS 

7  Contributors 

*P.  Alden  Beaman 

L.  Herbert  Carter 


Percy  M.  Hall 
♦Arthur  J.  Knight 
♦Donald  H.  Mace 

Wilbur  C.  Searle 
♦Percy  C.  Smith 

1908 

21  MEMBERS 
8  Contributors 
IN  MEMORIAM 
Robert  H.  Goddard 

Herbert  M.  Carleton 
*Royal  W.  Davenport 
Sumner  A.  Davis 
Robert  H.  Goddard 
Leon  W.  Hitchcock 
Forrest  G.  Kirsch 
100%  George  H.  Ryan 

Donald  D.  Simonds 

1909 

21  MEMBERS 
43%  9  Contributors 

George  A.  Barratt 
Fred  F.  Chapman 
Victor  E.  Friden 
Charles  F.  Goldthwait 
Dudley  Harmon 
Frank  E.  Hawkes 
25%       *Wilfred  F.  Jones 

Joseph  K.  Schofield 
Ralph  D.  Whitmore 


1910 

31  MEMBERS 

12  Contributors 

Charles  E.  Barney 
♦William  R.  Bell 

Ernest  W.  Bishop 

Millard  F.  Clement 

Ralph  G.  Gold 

Frank  W.  Green 

Alvan  L.  Grout 

Edward  A.  Hanff 

Karl  E.  Herrick 

Fred  L.  Hewes 
♦Oliver  B.  Jacobs 

Daniel  H.  Rcamy 

1911 
23  MEMBERS 
4  Contributors 
David  E,  Carpenter 
Edmund  M.  Flaherty 

Harold  R.  Frizzell 
A.  Hugh  Reid 

1912 
IN  MEMORIAM 
James  W.  Cunningham 
Herbert  F,  Taylor 
36  MEMBERS 
16   Contributors 
Eric  G.  Benedict 


38% 


Harrison  G.  Brown 
George  E.  Clifford 
Earl  W.  Gleason 
J.  Francis  Granger 
Eugene  H.  Powers 
August  J.  Reinhard 
Henry  A.  Rickett 

*  James  J.  Shea 
Clinton  D.  Smith 

*Harland  F.  Stuart 
Roger  P.  Towne 
Edward  J.  Tucker 
F.  Holman  Waring 

1913 

41  MEMBERS 
15  Contributors 
Clarence  A.  Brock 
Edmund  K.  Brown 

♦Frederick  S.  Carpenter 
George  E.  Chick 
Allen  H.  Gridley 
David  G.  Howard 

*Harry  B.  Lindsay 
Albert  J.  Lorion 

♦Norris  D.  Pease 
J.  Arthur  Planteroth 
Leon  H.  Rice 
Farquhar  W.  Smith 
Millard  C.  Spencer 
William  R.  Stults 
George  A.  Wightman 

1914 

48  MEMBERS 

18  Contributors 

James  L.  Atsatt 
♦Edward  C.  Bartlett 

Winthrop  B.  Brown 

Arthur  H.  Burns 

Albert  S.  Crandon 

Ray  C.  Crouch 

John  J.  Desmond 
♦Roland  H.  Dufault 

William  H.  Evans 
♦Franklin  C.  Gurley 

Ellwood  N.  Hcnnessy 

Asa  Hosmer 

Earl  C.  Hughes 
•Edward  T.  Jones 

George  Ross 

William  w.  Spratt 

Arthur  C.  Torrcy 

Clayton  R.  Wilcox 


1915 
51  MEMBERS 

25  Contributors 
Clarence  F.  Alexander 
Allen  M.  Atwater 
Howard  C.  Barnes 
William  J.  Becker 
John  M.  Bond 
Benjamin  H.  DTEwart 
David  H.  Filming 
Frank  Fonbanj 


John  W.  Gleason 
Robert  E.  Hancock 
Harrison  W.  Hosmer 
♦Russell  N.  Hunter 
Dr.  Charles  B.  Hurd 
Everett  Hutchins 
Winfield  S.  Jewell,  Jr. 
Ralph  M.  Johnson 
Raymond  P.  Lansing 
Carroll  M.  Lawton 
Douglas  F.  Miner 
Edward  R.  Nary 
George  W.  Smith,  Jr. 
Myron  M.  Smith 
Maurice  G.  Steele 
Cedric  E.  Thurston 
E.  Taylor  Warren 

1916 

IN  MEMORIAM 
Richard  W.  Young 
64  MEMBERS 
21  Contributors 
Carl  H.  Burgess 
Leslie  J.  Chaffee 
Wellen  H.  Colburn 

♦Simon  Collier 
Philip  N.  Cooke 
Frank  G.  Gifford 
Roland  D.  Home 

♦Robert  E.  Lamb 
Donald  B.  Mavnard 
Philip  P.  Murdick 
Joseph  E.  Murphy 
Chester  G.  Rice 
EUery  E.  Royal 
Clifford  W.  Sanderson 
Harold  G.  Saunders 

♦C.  Leroy  Storms 
Sidney  T.  Swallow 
James  C.  Walker 
Selden  T.  Williams 
Aurelio  E.  Zambarano 

1917 
74  MEMBERS 
35  Contributors 
Edward  M.  Brcnnan 
Russell  H.  Callahan 
EUcbard  M.  Daniels 
Clinton  S.  Darling 
Richard  B.  Davidson 
Wentworth  P.  Doulittle 
Clarence  E.  Pay 
•  Alfred  W.  Francis 
l.il.nul  A.  Gurdner 
Walter  H.  Gifford 
Arthur  F,  Gorman 
Ronald  E.  Greene 
Robert  C.  Hanckcl 
David  E.  Hartshorn 

I     h.u  I.    .    I'       J  li'VWIHid 

KriiliTu    I,    llolhrook 
I  H.I.   T.  Hubbard 
Kv.r.tt  B.  Janvrin 
Richard  D.  Lambert 
Kirke  B,  Lawton 
John  M.  Leggett 


♦Warren  W.  Parks 
Edgar  N.  Pike 
Philip  C.  Pray 

♦Hermon  F.  Safford 
Henry  W.  Sheldrick 
Russell  H.  Smith 
Francis  P.  Swallow 

♦Moses  H.  Teaze 
Clarence  B.  Tilton 
Robert  L.  Tomblen 
Max  W.  Tucker 
John  A.  C.  Warner 
John  R.  Wheeler 
Levi  E.  Wheeler 


1918 
50  MEMBERS 
20  Contributors 
Charles  C.  Alvord 
James  Apostolou 
John  O.  Archibald 
Howland  Buttler 
Walter  B.  Dennen 
Ervant  H.  Eresian 
Osborne  T.  Everett 
George  C.  Griffith 
Charles  S.  Howard 

♦Norman  P.  Knowlton 

♦John  F.  Kyes,  Jr. 
Heyward  F.  Lawton 
Lewis  F.  Lionvale 
Roger  M.  Lovell 
Francis  N.  Luce 

♦Benjamin  Luther 
Hobart  H.  Newell 
Maurice  W.  Richardson 
Winfred  D.  Wilkinson 
Frederick  E.  Wood 


1919 

16  MEMBERS 
23  Contributors 
James  E.  Arnold 
•Edwin  W.  Bcmis 
Carl  I.  Benson 
Everett  C.  Bryant 
Donald  T.  Canfu-ld 
Alden  G.  Carlson 
Roy  H.  Carpenter 
Roger  B.  Chaffee 
John  W.  Coghlin 
Cyril  W.  Dawson 
Eric  S.  Ericsson 
Howard  S.  Foster 
Ray  W.  Heffernan 
J  i  id  ah  H.  Humphrey 

Raymond  L.  Mathison 
Richard  S.  Morse 
H.  Bar!  Muni 
Richard  L,  Olaon 

George  i(    Rich 

I  homos  B.  Rutherford 

»  Robert  C.  Sessions 

Charles  W.  Staples 
Harold  W.  Thompson 


26 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


1920 

71  MEMBERS 

17  Contributors 

Jaul  M.  Abbott 

Chester  W.  Aldrich 
.  \rvid  E.  Anderson 

Raymond  D.  Bishop 

rlarold  D.  Boutelle 
.  Fohn  J.  Bums 

Frederic  R.  Butler 

ff.  Orrell  Davis 

Gorman  C.  Firth 

Harold  G.  Hunt 
t  3urton  W.  Marsh 

rtaymon  F.  Meader 

Carlton  J.  O'Neil 
I  Ernest  A.  Peel 

3ilbert  F.  Perry 
[Robert  A.  Peterson,  Sr. 

Saul  Robinson 

Hobart  D.  Sanborn 

Baalis  Sanford 

Salter  B.  Shear 
(Rudolph  C.  Stange 
i  Ernest  Thompson,  Jr. 

Henry  B.  Townsend 

Herbert  H.  Upton 

George  L.  White 
;  Lester  C.  Wightman 
»  Oliver  R.  Wulf 


1921 

.  68  MEMBERS 
33  Contributors 
Harold  S.  Black 

■  Carleton  F,  Bolles 
Edward  I.  Burleigh 
Cornelius  A.  Callahan 
Myron  D.  Chace 
Robert  E.  Chapman 
Philip  K.  Davis 
trving  M.  Desper 
Ralph  L.  Draper 
Robert  M.  Eldred 
Edward  J.  P.  Fisher 
Carroll  A.  Huntington 
2yril  Israel 
E.  Daniel  Johnson 
loseph  Kushner 
Lyman  C.  Lovell 
William  L.  Martin 
Lyle  J.  Morse 
Richard  P.  Penfield 
Robert  W.  Perry 
£arl  B.  Pickering 
£dward  Rose 
'aul  S.  Sessions 
3.  Clark  Shaw 
3arl  E.  Skroder 
Irving  R.  Smith 
Foster  E.  Sturtevant 
liincoln  Thompson 
Harold  B.  Whitmore 
lohn  W.  Williams 
Alexander  L.  Wilson 
Earl  H.  Winslow 
Paul  D.  Woodbury 


1922 

85  MEMBERS 
41  Contributors 
Leslie  M.  Abbe 
Dean  W.  Alden 
Charles  I.  Babcock 
Roy  G.  Bennett 
Wellington  H.  Bingham 
Alden  I.  Brigham 
Thaddeus  J.  Brusnicki 
Edward  L.  Campbell 
Charles  N.  Clarkson 
William  H.  Cooney 
Chester  P.  Currier 
Robert  W.  Cushman 
Emerson  B.  Donnell 
Russell  M.  Field 
Weston  Hadden 
William  S.  Hoar 
Wilfred  H.  Howe 
Solomon  Hurowitz 
Lawrence  K.  Hyde 
Wayne  E.  Keith 
Enfried  T.  Larson 
Kenneth  J.  Lloyd 
James  L.  Marston 
Frank  R.  Mason 
Lloyd  F.  McGlincy 
Carl  F.  Meyer 
C.  Warren  Page 
Philip  S.  Parker 
George  F.  Parsons 
Fred  Pickwick,  Jr. 
Harold  S.  Rice 
Henry  J.  Rives 
John  V.  Russell 
Ernest  M.  Schiller 


Edwin  L.  Sholz 
Luther  C.  Small 
38%  Stanley  M.  Townsend 

*George  A.  Walker 
*  Philip  H.  White 
♦Everett  G.  Wightman 
Robert  M.  Wilder 


1923 

70  MEMBERS 
29  Contributors 
J.  Carleton  Adams 
♦George  S.  Cary 

*  Edwin  B.  Coghlin 
Carl  R.  Cron 
Lincoln  A.  Cundall 
Andrew  Fiore 
Judson  M.  Goodnow 
Kenneth  E.  Hapgood 
William  J.  Harrington 

*C.  Freeman  Hawley 
Max  Hurowitz 
Edward  B.  Johnson 
Lewis  J.  Lenny 
Philip  W.  Lundgren 
Joseph  P.  Mason 
Donald  McAllister 
Percival  E.  Meyer 
Weston  Morrill 

♦Howard  S.  Nutting 
Roland  E.  Pardee 
Ralph  C.  Pierce 
Cortis  N.  Rice,  Jr. 
Frederick  H.  S  cheer 
Richard  H.  V.  Shaw 
George  B.  Snow 
Paul  R.  Swan 
Roger  T.  Waite 
Richard  Walberg 
Ralph  W.  White 

1924 

64  MEMBERS 
26  Contributors 

*J.  Norman  Alberti 
Clarence  E.  Anderson 
Edward  G.  Beardsley 
Milton  A.  Bemis 

♦Francis  C.  Bragg 
Edward  J.  Burke 
Godfrey  J.  Danielson 
George  D.  Estes 

*Warren  B.  Fish 
James  A.  Hillman 

♦Leslie  J.  Hooper 
Harry  L.  Hurd 

♦Helge  S.  Johnson 
Simeon  C.  Leyland 
Lionel  O.  Lundgren 
Douglas  B.  Martin 
Clarence  W.  McElroy 
Arthur  P.  Miller 
F.  Paul  Ronca 
Alfred  P.  Storms 
John  N.  Styffe 
Stephen  J.  Vouch 
Forrest  E.  Wilcox 
Raymond  G.  Wilcox 

♦Gordon  C.  Willard 

♦Donald  B.  Wilson 

1925 

75  MEMBERS 
26  Contributors 
♦David  C.  Bailey 
Charles  H.  Bidwell 
Roger  N.  Brooks 
Llewellyn  A.  Burgess 
Carl  F.  Carlstrom 
Louis  Corash 
John  V.  Fitzmaurice 
William  B.  Gould  III 
0.  Arnold  Hansen 
Arthur  V.  Houle 

*  Daniel  L.  Hussey 
James  C.  Irish 
Urban  R.  Lamay 

♦Luther  B.  Martin 
Donald  M.  McAndrew 
Henry  L,  Mellen 
David  J.  Minott 
Roy  B.  Payne 
Julian  B.  Pendleton 
Kenneth  H.  Pratt 
Norman  P.  Robie 
William  F.  Ronco 
L.  Ivan  Underwood 
Sigurd  R.  Wendin 
Lloyd  P.  Wilcox 


1926 

118  MEMBERS 

54  Contributors 

Robert  H.  Alberti 

♦Harold  A.  Baines 


35% 


Walter  R.  Bennet 

Milton  E.  Berglund 

Raymond  H.  Bjork 

Richard  S.  Boutelle 

Leonard  C.  Calder 

Ormond  J.  Chinnock 

Raymond  C.  Connolly 
♦Phillip  R.  Delphos 

Elmer  O.  Earnshaw 

Frederick  D.  Fielder 

Carroll  D.  Forristall 

F.  Ray  Green 

Donald  L.  Hager 

Arthur  W.  Haley 

Carl  G.  Hammar 
♦Charles  B.  Hardy 

Arnold  P.  Hayward 

Charles  M.  Healey,  Jr. 

Fred  H.  Hedin 

Archie  J.  Home 

Richard  P.  Houlihan 

Clyde  W.  Hubbard 
♦Eugene  M.  Hunter 

Stanley  F.  Johnson 

Chandler  W.  Jones 

Howard  G.  Lasselle 

Winthrop  S.  Marston 
♦Carleton  F.  Maylott 

Henry  G.  Mildrum 

John  S.  Miller 

Charles  M.  Moran 
♦John  A.  Morse 

Stanley  R.  Osborne 

Linwood  E.  Page 

Armand  L.  Paquette 

Arthur  C.  Parsons 

Lawrence  S.  Peterson 

George  I.  Pierce 

James  A.  Robertson 

William  A.  Russell 

Randall  P.  Saxton 

Donald  F.  Sears 

Charles  T.  Smith 

Mabbott  B.  Steele 

Harry  E.  Stratton 

Charles  J.  Thompson 
♦Howard  B.  Thomson 

Llewellin  W.  Wade 

Irvin  S.  Webster 

Axel  H.  Wendin 

Emerson  A.  Wiggin 

Alfred  D.  Wilson 

1927 

87  MEMBERS 

40  Contributors  4 

Richard  A.  Beth 

Richard  E.  Bliven 

George  L.  Bush 

Edward  F.  Cahalen 

Ellsworth  B.  Carpenter 

Chester  A.  Deane 

Harold  L.  Eastman 

Charles  H.  Fogg 

Louis  H.  Griff 

Chester  Haitsma 
♦George  J.  Heckman 
♦Victor  E.  Hill 

E.  Carl  Hoglund 

Richard  K.  Irons 

Lester  G.  Jaquith 

Robert  E.  Johnson 

Walter  G.  Johnson 

Edward  J.  Kearnan 

Donald  L.  King 

Leonard  W.  Lewis 

Charles  MacLennan 
♦Arthur  C.  Manning 

Dean  L.  Merrill 

Eustace  I.  Merrill 

Charles  F.  Monnier 
♦Charles  S.  Moore 

Robert  L.  Parker 

William  M.  Rauha 

Carleton  R.  Sanford 

Carl  H.  Schwind 

Donald  S.  Searle 

James  M.  Simmons 

Nathan  M.  Southwick,  Jr. 

Howard  F.  Stephenson 

Thomas  A.  Steward 

Paul  W.  Swenson 

William  E.  Taylor 
♦Emmett  A.  Thrower 
♦Russell  G.  Whittemore 

John  F.  Wood 


1928 

101  MEMBERS 
49  Contributors 
Lawrence  E.  Backlin 
Roderick  A.  Bail 
Gabriel  O.  Bedard 
Harold  G.  Butterworth 
♦Frank  E.  Buxton 
Bernard  N.  Carlson 


Frederick  R.  Cook 
Charles  H.  Decater 
Herbert  P.  Dobie 
John  E.  Driscoll 
Charles  G.  Durbin 
Theodore  J.  Englund 
Frank  J.  Fleming 
Paul  Henley 
Jacob  J.  Jaffee 

♦Dwight  E.  Jones 
Ralph  V.  Karlson 

♦Francis  H.  King 
Frederick  H.  Knight 

♦A  Everett  Lawrence 
Louis  F.  Leidholdt 
William  M.  Lester 
Clifford  S.  Livermore 
Ralph  H.  Lundberg 
William  A.  Manty 
Roland  C.  Mather 
James  H.  McCarthy 
Alexander  L.  Naylor 
Forrest  S.  Nelson 
Reginald  J.  Odabashian 
Harland  L.  Page 
Karl  W.  Penney 
Wilbur  H.  Perry 
Lincoln  H.  Peterson 
Stanley  H.  Pickford 

♦Donald  P.  Reed 
Gordon  E.  Rice 
Frederick  G.  Sandstrom 
Lester  H.  Sarty 
Roger  K.  Stoughton 
Milton  A.  Swanson 
Arthur  M.  Tarbox 
Harold  R.  Voigt 
Charles  A.  Warren 
Winslow  C.  Wentworth 
Andrew  L.  Wilkinson 
Julian  A.  Witkege 
Edward  N.  Wooding 
Alfred  W.  Young 

1929 

89  MEMBERS 
43  Contributors 
Frederick  G.  Baldwin 

♦Wayne  S.  Berry 
Charles  J.  Brzezinski 
Arthur  H.  Burr 
Carl  H.  Carlson 
Luther  Q.  H.  Chin 
Nathaniel  Clapp 
Laurence  F.  Cleveland 
Arnold  M.  Cook 
William  L.  Crosby 
Boris  Dephoure 
John  R.  Dobie 
Stephen  D.  Donahue 
Robert  M.  Eccles 
Frank  H.  French 

♦J.  Kendall  Fullerton 
J.  Howard  Germain 
Arthur  E.  Gilbert,  Jr. 
O.  Vincent  Gustafson 
Holbrook  L.  Horton 
William  R.  Hutton 
Francis  E.  R.  Johnson 
Frank  R.  Joslin 
George  V.  Kennedy 
Harold  P.  Kranz 
Milton  F.  Labonte 
Edward  E.  Lane 
Daniel  R.  Leamy 
John  H.  McCarthy 
John  L.  Mooshian 
Andrew  J.  O'Connell 
Halbert  E.  Pierce,  Jr. 
John  D.  Putnam 
Harold  P.  Richmond 
Joseph  R.  Rogers,  Jr. 
A.  Harold  Rustigian 
Lawrence  Silverborg 
Lothar  A.  Sontag 
Richard  J.  Stone 
Robert  L.  Towne 
Francis  Wiesman 

♦Russell  C.  Wiley 
James  H.  Williams 


1930 

122  MEMBERS 
48  Contributors 
Henry  O.  Allen 

♦Carl  W.  Backstrom 
Robert  S.  Bennett 
David  K.  Bragg 
John  W.  Burt 

♦E.  Waldemar  Carlson 
C.  Eugene  Center 
Joseph  H.  Coghill 
Charles  H.  Cole 
John  W.  Conley 
George  W.  Crossley 
Sherman  Dane 


Edward  R.  Delano 

Charles  R.  Fay 

Stanley  H.  Fillion 

Myrton  P.  Finney 

Thomas  F.  Flynn 

Ralph  H.  Gilbert 

Albert  M.  Goodnow 

Armando  E.  Greco 

Carmelo  S.  Greco 

Roger  T.  Griswold 

Lincoln  B.  Hathaway 

Robert  E.  Hollick 

Clifford  B.  Ives 

Irving  Joseph 

Francis  E.  Kennedy 
♦William  W.  Locke 

Aarne  A   Luoma 

Percy  F   Marsaw 
♦George  A.  Marston 

James  E.  McLoughlin 

Edward  C.  Milde 

Albert  N.  Narter 

Daniel  F.  O'Grady 

John  R.  Parker 

George  E.  Perreault 

Fred  P.  Peters 

Arthur  F.  Pierce,  Jr. 

Dean  M.  Lawrence  Price 

Warren  R.  Purcell 

Philip  M.  Seal 

Wesley  A.  Sheldon 

Harry  A.  Sorensen 

George  W.  Stratton 

Ellis  H.  Whitaker 
♦Warren  C.  Whittum 

Arthur  Zavarella 


1931 

122  MEMBERS 
49  Contributors 
Robert  E.  Barrett 
Edward  J.  Bayon 
Clifford  A.  Bergquist 
Robert  Bumstead 
Hilding  O.  Carlson 
Benjamin  R.  Chadwick 
Russell  V.  Corsini 
Harold  T.  Cutler 
Henry  N.  Deane 

♦Albert  M.  Demont 
William  P.  Dennison 
Theodore  L.  Fish 
Paul  H.  Fittz 

♦John  E.  Fletcher 
Milton  D.  Gleason 

♦A.  Wallace  Gove 
William  Graham 
Allan  G,  Hall 
Raymond  E.  Hall 
Jay  M.  Harpell 
Edwin  V.  Haskell 
Walker  T.  Hawley 
John  H.  Hinchliffe,  Jr. 
Ralph  Hodgkinson 
Frederic  C.  Holmes 
H.  Edwin  Hosmer 
Everett  E.  Johnson 

♦David  D.  Kiley 
Russell  J.  Libbey 
William  U.  Matson 
Oliver  B.  Merrill 
William  H.  Mill 
John  A.  Mott 

♦J.  Philip  Pierce 
Eben  H.  Rice 
Carl  F.  Sage 
Trueman  L.  Sanderson 
Nicholas  S.  Sculos 
Michael  C.  Sodano 

♦Herbert  A.  Stewart 
Hurant  Tashjian 

♦A.  Francis  Townsend 
Prescott  K.  Turner 
John  B.  Tuthill 
Charles  B.  Walker 
Carroll  N.  Whitaker 
Irving  S.  White 
Robert  S.  Williamson 
Charles  E.  Woodward 

1932 

113  MEMBERS 
38  Contributors 
N.  Albert  Anderson 
William  W.  Asp 
Arthur  W.  Backgren 
Clement  R.  Barlow 
Theodore  H.  Berard 
Fred  A.  Bickford 
Herbert  F.  Borg 
♦Dana  B.  Carleton 
Henry  E.  Carlson 
Marcel  A.  E.  Delys 
Arthur  Deslauriers,  Jr. 
Emile  R.  Dube 
C.  Milton  Ekberg 
David  Goldrosen 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


27 


Earle  E.  Green 

William  E.  Hanson 

Elliott  D.  Jones 

Howard  P.  Lekberg 

Eino  O.  Leppanen 

Lester  N.  Lintner 

Linn  M.  Lockwood 

Robert  W.  McMaster 

William  J.  Minnick 

Paul  E.  Nelson 

John  Nizamoff 

Olof  W.  Nyquist 

Constantine  J.  G.  Orfanos 

Edwin  L.  Pollard 
♦Henry  B.  Pratt 

Donald  W.  Putnam 

William  W.  Richardson 
♦Ellis  R.  Spaulding 
♦Francis  M.  Sullivan 

John  U.  Tillan 

John  R.  Tinker 

Edwin  C.  Tucker 

Frederick  F.  Whitford 

Clelan  G.  Winn 


1933 

126  MEMBERS 
58  Contributors 
Edward  K.  Allen,  Jr. 
Alexander  L.  Alves 
*William  A.  Anderson 
Henry  C.  Ashley 
Gordon  E.  Barnes 
Waldo  E.  Bass 
Albert  O.  Bell 
J.  Alfred  Bicknell 
Robert  W.  Blake 
Hugo  P.  Borgatti 
Charles  S.  Brewer 
Allen  L.  Brownlee 
Leo  Burwick 
William  H.  Clancey,  Jr. 
Raymond  B.  Crawford 
Guy  A.  Cummings,  Jr. 
Herbert  W.  Daniels,  Jr. 
George  Davagian 
Thomas  E.  Decker 
Herman  W.  Dom 
Cornelius  J.  Doyle 
J.  Roy  Driscoll 
John  J.  Dwyer 
Albert  H.  Ensor 
Kenneth  M.  Farnsworth 
Robert  E.  Ferguson 
Alden  H.  Fuller 
Robert  W.  Fulton 
'Kenneth  E.  Gleason 
Albert  B.  Glenn 

*  Gilbert  U.  Gustafson 
Linval  D.  Harvey 
Donald  W.  Haskins 
John  A.  Henrickson 
Leighton  Jackson 
Harry  T.  Jensen 

♦Carl  L.  Johnson 
Carroll  M.  Johnson 
Edwin  L.  Johnson 

♦Aram  Kalenian 
Albert  J.  Laliberte 
Harvey  F.  Lorenzen 
George  W.  Lyman 
Richard  T.  Merrell 
Alfred  G.  Parker 
W.  Harvey  Perreault 
Robert  C.  Peterson 
Franklin  B.  Roberts 

♦John  C.  L.  Shabeck,  Jr. 
Carl  G.  Silverberg 
Arthur  E.  Smith 
John  C.  Spence 

♦Chester  R.  Spielvogel 

♦Sumner  B.  Sweetser 
Eugene  J.  Ten- 
Walter  W.  Tuthill 

*  Jeremiah  H.  Vail 
Alberts.  White,  Jr. 


1934 

118  MEMBERS 
47  Contributors 

♦Bertil  H.  Anderson 
Clarence  W.  Anderson 
G.  Standish  Beebe 
Kenneth  E.  Bennett 
Charles  N.  Bissell 
Paul  W.  Booth 
John  H.  Bradbury 
William  E.  Burpee 
Ernest  M.  Crowell 

•Merrill  E.  Cutting 

•Dwight  J.  Dwinell 
Charles  J.  Egan 

♦Charles  S.  Frary.  Jr. 
George  G.  Gleisbcrg 
Roberts.  Grand 


G.  Donald  Greenwood 

Joseph  Haddad 

Carl  Hammarstrom 

Theodore  F.  Hammett 

Clayton  E.  Hunt,  Jr. 

George  Kalista 

John   H.  Keenan 

Luther  C.  Leavitt 
♦Edward  R.  Markert 

Charles  W.  McElroy 

John  A.  McMahon 

William  E.  Mesh 

William  P.  Mitnik 

Raymond  H.  Neubauer 

C.  Eugene  Parta 

Albert  T.  Phelps 

Louis  Press 

V.  Thomas  Ratkiewich,  Jr. 

Richard  W.  Rhodes 

Edmund  F.  Rothemich 
♦Everett  F.  Sellew 

Philip  C.  Sherburne 

Eugene  Shumski 

J.  Russell  Smith 

Warren  S.  Snow 

Howard  E.  Stockwell 

Paul  J.  Sullivan 

Michael  G.  Tashjian 

Donald  C.  Vibber 

Arthur  B.  Wentzel 

Gordon  P.  Whitcomb 

Howard  A.  Whittum 


1935 

133  MEMBERS 

63  Contributors  4' 

♦Edward  J.  Abendschein 

George  W.  Axelby 

George  P.  Beaulieu 

Carl  G.  Bergstrom 

Karl  H.  Bohaker 

Robert  M.  Branch 
♦B.  Austin  Coates   * 

Theron  M.  Cole 

Edward  J.  Cove 

John  B.  Coyle 

Lewis  D.  Cross 

C.  Marshall  Dann 

Phillip  S.  Dean 

William  A.  Dempsey 

Joseph  Glasser 

William  E.  Grubert 

James  J.  Gushaw 

Samuel  Hakan 

Allan  F.  Hardy,  Jr. 

Francis  L.  Harrington 

James  K.  Healy 

Eugene  S.  Henning 

Herbert  N.  Hoffman 

Leonard  G.  Humphrey,  Jr. 

Ladislaus  T.  Jodaitis 

Joseph  A.  Johnson,  Jr. 

Osmond  L.  Kinney 

Paul  S.  Krantz 

Theodore  R.  Latour 

Herbert  V.  Leckie,  Jr. 

Harold  A.  Leduc 

Lester  L.  Libby 

C,  Gordon  Lincoln 

Arvo  A.  Luoma 

George  A.  Makela 

Frederick  W.  Mclntyre,  Jr. 

George  A.  Mitchell 
♦Raymond  L.  Moeller 

John  J.  Molloy 

Homer  R.  Morrison 

Roland  L.  Nims 

Andrew  W.  Palm 

William  C.  Potter 

Charles  C.  Puffer 

Raymond  J.  Quenneville 

Emerson  J.  Robinson 

William  J.  Samborski 

Charles  S.  Smith 

Kingston  C.  Smith 

M.  Kent  Smith 

David  V.  Smyth 

Raymond  F.  Starrett 

William  R.  Steur 

Frederick  W.  Swan,  Jr. 

Gordon  S.  Swift 

J.  James  Tasillo 

Harold  K.  Vickery 

Max  H.  Voigt 

Douglas  L.  Watkins 

B.  Leighton  Wellman 
♦Harvey  W.  White 
♦Plummer  Wiley 

William  E.  Wyman 

111  MEMBERS 

40  Contributors  3€ 

Harry  T.  Anderson,  Jr. 

Leo  T.  Bcnoit 

Carl  F.  Benson 

Walter  F.  Beth 


Carleton  W.  Borden 

♦John  R.  Brand 
Perry  P.  Clark 
John  A.  Crane 
Gordon  H.  Creamer 

*Earl  M.  Curtis 
Walter  G.  Dahlstrom 
Donald  L.  Edmunds 
George  B.  Estes 
Robert  Fowler,  Jr. 
Thomas  C.  Frary 

♦Scott  K.  Goodwin 
Martin  C.  Gowdey 
William  R.  Hannah 
L.  Brewster  Howard 
Frederick  E.  Hyatt,  Jr. 
Leonard  W.  Johnson 
Richard  W.  Keenan 

♦Clinton  E.  Leech 
N.  Robert  Levine 

♦William  C.  Maine 
Edward  V.  Montville 

♦David  M.  Morley 
Reginald  A.  Morrill 
John  J.  O'Donnell 
James  W.  Phelps 
George  E.  Rocheford 
Jacob  A.  Sacks 
Louis  Sadick 
Alan  F.  Shepardson 
Benjamin  H.  Smith,  Jr. 
Stedman  W.  Smith 

♦John  H.  Thompson 
Arthur  D.  Tripp,  Jr. 
Abbott  D.  Wilcox 
Theodore  C.  Wyman 


1937 

110  MEMBERS 

52  Contributors 
♦Erving  Arundale 

Philip  G.  Atwood 
♦Lawrence  K.  Barber 

B.  Allen  Benjamin 
William  S.  Bushell 
Martin  G.  Caine 

♦William  E.  Carew,  Jr. 
William  C.  Clark 
John  H.  Covell,  Jr. 
Harold  N.  Cox,  Jr. 
Gordon  F.  Crowther 

C.  Chapin  Cutler 
Henry  C.  Dearborn 

♦Morton  S.  Fine 
C.  Kimball  Francis 

♦Paul  R.  Glazier 

♦Laurence  F.  Granger 
Caleb  D.  Hammond 
William  J.  Harmon 

♦Francis  S.  Harvey 
Daniel  J.  Hastings,  Jr. 
Ralph  H.  Holmes 
Harris  W.  Howland 
Stanley  L.  Hyman 

♦A.  Hallier  Johnson 
Ray  K.  Linsley 
Richard  J.  Lyman 

♦Francis  H.  Marchand 
Maxwell  E.  Marshall 
Rolland  W.  McMurphy 
Samuel  W.  Mencow 
Charles  R.  Michel 
James  F.  Moore 
Thomas  M.  Nolan 
Howard  W.  Osborn 
James  B.  Patch,  Jr. 
Chandler  P.  Pierce 
A.  Hamilton  Powell 
Foster  C.  Powers 
W.  Robert  Powers 
Richard  A.  Prokop 
Oliver  H.  Raine 
Roger  E.  B.  Randall 
Robert  S.  Rich 
Raymond  W.  Schuh 
J.  Morrison  Smith 
Paul  J.  Stone 
John  B.  Sutliffe 
Talbot  F.  Wentworth 
John  B.  Willard 
William  W.  Worthley 
Leonard  A.  Young 


1938 
137  MEMBERS 
59  Contributors 
Robert  B.  Abbe 
Gilbert  G.  Ashwell 
Paul  H.  Bergstrom 
Donald  R.  Bishop 
J.  Harper  Blaisdell.  Jr. 
♦Charles  C.  Bonin 
John  C.  Bradshaw 
*J.  Randolph  Buck 
•Richard  F.  Burke,  Jr. 
George  B.  Cattermole 


Donald  B.  Clark 

♦Richard  W.  Cloues 
Andrew  R.  Constant 

♦Leo  J.  Cronin 
Robert  P.  Day 
Albert  L.  Delude,  Jr. 
Allen  R.  Deschere 
Richard  J.  Donovan 

♦Richard  M.  Elliott 
Robert  A.  Evans 
Neil  A.  Fitzgerald 
Norman  M.  Gamache 
Perry  F.  Grenon 
AUen  H.  Gridley,  Jr. 
Howard  W.  Haynes 
J.  Adams  Holbrook 
William  D.  Holcomb 
Raymond  K.  Houston 
Walter  J.  Howard 
Donald  W.  Howe,  Jr. 
Walter  E.  Knapp 
Peter  P.  Koliss 
Albert  J.  Kullas 
M.  Leonard  Kuniholm 
John  G.  Lawrence 
A.  George  Mallis 
Daniel  G.  Mazur 
John  S.  Mudgett 
Richard  G.  Munson 
Paul  M.  Murphy 
Robert  W.  O'Brien 
Raymond  J.  Perreault 
Donald  F.  Pethybridge 
Maurice  Pressman 
William  S.  Proctor 
Henry  M.  Ritz 
Malcolm  G.  Safford 
Edward  A.  Sawtell 
John  B.  Scalzi 
Warren  H.  Schafer 
Philip  K.  Seaver 
Robert  L.  Somerville 
Dana  D,  Stratton 
Francis  B.  Swenson 

♦Robert  M.  Taft 
Edward  J.  Traynor 
Earle  R.  Vickery,  Jr. 
Murray  C.  Wilson 
Francis  L.  Witkege 

1939 

141  MEMBERS 
56  Contributors 
♦Walter  L.  Abel 

Charles  H.  Amidon,  Jr. 

Roland  N.  Anderson 

John  A.  Backes 

Robert  V.  Bergstrom 
♦Jack  F.  Boyd 

Harrison  K.  Brown 
♦Donald  M.  Bumess 
♦Wilder  R.  Carson 
♦Malcolm  R.  Chandler 

Allan  H.  Chase 

Arthur  N.  Cooley 

Ralph  E.  Dudley 

George  E.  Feiker,  Jr. 

George  C.  Graham,  Jr. 

Jacob  J.  Hagopian 
♦John  G.  HoUick 
♦Donald  E.  Houser 

John  W.  Hughes 

Harold  W.  Humphrey,  Jr. 
♦David  H.  Hunt 

Roger  L.  Iffland 

Gleason  W.  Jewett 
♦Samuel  B.  Kaplan 

Oiva  J.  Kama 

William  L.  Kay 
♦Carl  A.  Keyser 

John  H.  Lancaster 

Albert  M.  Lavan 

Carl  W.  Lewin 

Carl  J.  Lindegren,  Jr. 

Robert  S.  Lloyd 
♦Arthur  H.  Mallon 

Robert  W.  Martin 

Ward  D.  Messimer 

Robert  A.  Morse 

Albert  A.  Nims,  Jr. 

C.  Kenneth  Olson 

Bradford  W.  Ordway 

Norman  A.  Packard 

William  F.  Payne 

John  F.  Peavey 

Frederick  S.  Pyne 

Albert  J.  Raslavsky 

Burton  D.  Rudnick 
♦Biliie  A.  Schmidt 

William  J.  Sexton,  Jr. 

Norman  W.  Stewart 
•Frans  E.  Strandberg 

Louis  E.  Stratton 

Gordon  L.  Thompson 
♦Churles  W.  Thulin 

William  B.  Wadsworth 

Harold  E.  Whit* 

Richard  B.  Wilson 

George  W.  Yule 


1940 

155  MEMBERS 

61  Contributors  40%  } 

Clayton  H.  AUen 

Eric  S.  Anderson 
♦Donald  R.  Bates 

Ralston  E.  Bates 

Max  Bialer 

George  S.  Bingham 

Wilfred  T.  Blades 

Kenneth  R.  Blaisdell 

Malcolm  S.  Burton 

Frank  A.  Crosby,  Jr. 

Edward  D.  Cross 

Frank  J.  Delany 

S.  Carlton  Dickerman 

Robert  E.  Dunklee,  Jr. 
♦Raymond  J.  Forkey 
♦Kenneth  C.  Fraser 

Howard  G.  Freeman 

Clyde  L.  Gerald 

W.  Clark  Goodchild,  Jr. 
♦Frank  G.  Gustafson 
♦Joseph  M.  Halloran,  Jr. 
♦Robert  W.  Hewey 

Robert  E.  Higgs 
♦Albert  E.  Howell,  Jr. 

Harding  B.  Jenkins 

Fritz  E.  Johanson 

Stanley  W.  Kimball 

Arthur  R.  Koerber 

David  A.  Kuniholm 

Norman  U.  Laliberte 

Carl  W.  Larson 

John  A.  Leach,  Jr. 

Vernon  J.  Liberty 
♦Russell  A.  Lovell,  Jr. 
♦Noel  R.  Maleady 

Kenneth  H.  McClure 

Philip  E.  Meany 

Herbert  F.  Morse 

Peter  A.  Muto 

Lawrence  C.  Neale 
♦John  H.  Peters  III 

Marcus  A.  Rhodes,  Jr. 
♦Milton  E.  Ross 

Robert  S.  Roulston 

Alden  T.  Roys 

Richard  F.  S  charm  ami 

Raymond  B.  Shlora 

S.  Merrill  Skeist 

Everett  P.  Smith 

Joseph  V.  Smolinski 

Walter  H.  Sodano 

Frank  B.  Stevenson 

Francis  E.  Stone 
♦Lawrence  R.  Sullivan 

Walter  J.  Sydor 

Stanley  M.  Terry 

Daniel  W.  Von  Bremen,  Jr. 

Randall  Whitehead 

Charles  J.  Wilde 

Thomas  S.  Wingardner 

David  B.  Zipser 


1941 

156  MEMBERS 

60  Contributors  39 

Benjamin  S.  Bean 

Albert  G.  Bellos 

Earle  K.  Boyd 

Robert  B.  Brautigam 

Irving  A.  Breger 

William  J.  Carroll,  Jr. 

Paul  A.  Carullo 
♦Frederick  B.  Chamberlin 

Alexander  S.  Chodakowski 

Sidney  W.  Clark 

George  A.  Cowan 

Francis  W.  Crowley 

Thomas  R.  D'Errico 

Kenneth  R.  Dresser 

George  F.  George 

Richard  Goulding 

Lloyd  E.  Greenwood 

Gordon  T.  Gurney 

Marvin  Handleman 

John  T.  Haran 

Harry  A.  Haszard 
James  H.  Hirunan 

F.  Harold  Holland,  Jr. 
Stephen  Horbal 
Joseph  P.  Jurga 
•Norman  G.  Klaucke 
MHvin  H.  Knapp 
George  W.  Kn.uiff 
Victor  A.  Kolesh 
George  P.  Lentros 
Kr.mk  R.  Lindbcrg 
♦Stanley  J.  Majka 
James  E.  McGinnis 
F.  Douglas  McKcown 
Hcrmun  Mrdwin 
John  W.  Morse 
•Robert  A.  Mulr 
Paul  G.  Nyitrom 
Norman  II.  Osgood 


28 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Henry  Palley 

Donald  F.  Palmer,  Jr. 
♦Russell  W.  Parks 

George  K.  Peck 

Stannard  M.  Potter 

Stanley  S.  Ribb 

William  C.  Richardson 

Harold  E.  Roberton,  Jr. 

William  P.  Simmons 

Charles  0.  Smith 
♦Donald  E.  Smith 

Sidney  Soloway 

Ralph  W.  Stinson 

Robert  W.  Tuller 

Anton  J.  West,  Sr. 

Joseph  W.  Whitaker,  Jr. 

Leonard  H.  White 

William  E.  Wiley 
♦Robert  F.  Wilson 
♦Alfred  E.  Winslow 

John  M.  Wolkonowicz 

1942 

162  MEMBERS 

64  Contributors 
^Robert  E.  Allen 

Jonathan  B.  Allured 

E.  Curtis  Ambler 

Frederick  A.  Anderson 

John  M.  Bartlett,  Jr. 

Robert  M.  Bendett 
^Norman  C.  Bergstrom 
^Gerald  J.  Bibeault 

Joseph  W.  Blaine,  Jr. 

Lester  A.  Bolton,  Jr. 


Roy  F.  Bourgault 
Robert  C.  Chaffe,  Jr. 
Joseph  N.  Christian 

♦Harold  L.  Crane 
Harold  E.  Crosier,  Jr. 
Wilbur  H.  Day 
Walter  K,  Deacon 

♦Paul  C.  Disario,  Jr. 
Eric  W.  Essen 
James  Fernane 
Ralph  G.  Fritch 
Clinton  A.  Gerlach 
Haskell  Ginns 
Herbert  M.  Goodman 
Warren  G.  Harding 
Philip  J.  Hastings 
Edward  A.  Hebditch 
Robert  H.  Hodges 
Robert  L.  Holden 

♦Peter  P.  Holz 
James  D.  Houlihan 
William  S.  Jackson,  Jr. 
Richard  H.  Kimball,  Jr. 
Elmer  E.  Larrabee 
Frederick  W.  Lindblad 
A.  Cline  Mendelsohn 
Frederic  C.  Merriam 
F.  Gordon  Merrill 
Alexander  Mikulich 
Francis  J.  Oneglia 
Rodney  G.  Paige 
Charles  H.  Parker 

♦Robert  W.  Pease 
Russell  C.  Proctor,  Jr. 
John  H.  Quinn,  Jr. 
Gordon  H.  Raymond 


♦James  F.  Robjent 

♦John  E.  Rogerson 
Adolph  A.  Salminen 

♦Elton  J.  Sceggel 
Leonard  I.  Smith 
Victor  H.  Thulin 

♦Etienne  Totti,  Jr. 

♦NoelTotti,  Jr. 
Howard  C.  Warren 
J.  Richard  Weiss,  Jr. 
John  P.  Wells 
Samuel  W.  Williams,  Jr. 
Arthur  D.  Wilson 
Norman  A.  Wilson 
William  C.  Woods,  Jr. 
John  B.  Wright 
Paul  C.  Yankauskas 

♦Warren  B.  Zepp 


1943 

144  MEMBERS 
55  Contributors 

Everett  J.  Ambrose,  Jr. 
Robert  A.  Bierweiler 

♦Harold  W.  Brandes 
Hugh  M.  Brautigam 
Nelson  M.  Calkins,  Jr. 

♦Edwin  C.  Campbell 
Warren  H.  Chaffee 
Henry  C.  Durick,  Jr. 

♦Jackson  L.  Durkee 

♦Richard  F.  Dyer 

♦Lee  P.  Farnsworth 

♦J.  Perry  Fraser 


George  W.  Golding,  Jr. 
♦Robert  E.  Gordon 

Philip  J.  Gow 

Arthur  V.  Grazulis 

William  S.  C.  Henry 
♦Leonard  Hershoff 

Glennon  B.  Hill 

Franklin  K.  Holbrook 

Calvin  B.  Holden 

Chester  E.  Holmlund 

John  W.  Huckins 

Joseph  M.  Jolda 

Arnold  R.  Jones 

Averill  S.  Keith 
♦Friend  H.  Kierstead,  Jr. 
♦Victor  E.  Kohman 

Arthur  E.  Lindroos 

John  McLay,  Jr. 

Arthur  H.  Medine,  Jr. 
♦Behrends  Messer,  Jr. 

S.  Bailey  Norton,  Jr. 

Earl  G.  Page,  Jr. 

Robert  A.  Painter 

James  H.  Parliman 

Theodore  A.  Pierson  III 

Edward  H.  Peterson 
♦James  J.  Pezza 

Leon  H.  Rice 

Donald  M.  Roun 
♦Donald  H.  Russell 

Alan  N.  Sanderson 
♦Richard  B.  Shaw 

Ralph  L.  Smith,  Jr. 

Bruce  E.  Smyth 
♦Raymond  W.  Southworth 

George  E.  Stannard 


Frank  Szel 
♦William  W.  Tunnicliffe 
Alfred  Voedisch,  Jr. 
Pierre  Volkmar 
Rollin  M.  Wheeler 
Richard  Whitcomb 
Stanley  T.  Wolcott 

1944 

160  MEMBERS 

50  Contributors 

IN  MEMORIAM 
♦John  N.  Wholean 
♦Gordon  C.  Anderson 

Herbert  Asher 

C.  Edward  Bean 

Glen  R.  Betz 
♦John  A.  Bjork 

Harold  W.  Blake 
♦Norman  S.  Blodgett 

Philip  P.  Brown 
♦Richard  A.  Carson 

Charles  S.  Cooper 

Lee  G.  Cordier 

Calvin  M.  Davis 

Benjamin  B.  D'Ewart 

Irving  James  Donahue,  Jr, 

Peter  C.  Dooley,  Jr. 

Einar  A.  Eriksen 

David  M.  Field 

Irving  B.  Gerber 

Bruce  D.  Hainsworth 

Dwight  E.  Harris 
♦Raymond  E.  Herzog 

Richard  G.  Holden 


31% 


FRATERNITY  GIVING  ANALYSIS  1970-71 

Total 

Percent 

Total 

Average 

Alumni 

Contributors 

Participation 

Contributions 

Gift 

Alpha  Epsilon  Pi 

389 

111 

28.5 

$     4,847 

$  43.67 

Alpha  Tau  Omega 

671 

242 

36.1 

16,576 

68.50 

Delta  Sigma  Tau 

15 

4 

26.7 

85 

21.25 

Lambda  Chi  Alpha 

609 

230 

37.8 

12,127 

52.73 

Phi  Gamma  Delta 

577 

197 

34.1 

14,628 

74.25 

Phi  Kappa  Theta 

663 

195 

29.4 

15,210 

78.00 

Phi  Sigma  Kappa 

710 

252 

35.5 

34,595 

137.28 

Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon 

645 

227 

35.2 

22,631 

99.70 

Sigma  Pi 

59 

12 

20.4 

460 

38.33 

Sigma  Phi  Epsilon 

702 

245 

34.9 

19,646 

80.19 

Theta  Chi 

706 

261 

37.0 

16,866 

64.62 

Tau  Kappa  Epsilon 

151 

36 

23.8 

956 

26.56 

Totals 

5,897 

2,012 

34.1 

158,627 

78.84 

Non-Fraternity 

3,402 
9,299 

989 

29.1 
323 

56,378 
$215,005 

57.01 

3,001 

$  71.64 

Daniel  Koval 

♦Erling  Lagerholm 
George  A.  Latinen 
John  W.  Lebourveau 
John  A.  Lewis 
Robert  H.  Maass 
Lloyd  G.  Mann 

♦Vernon  A.  McLaskey 
Fred  S.  Moulton 
John  P.  Newton,  Jr. 
Douglas  G.  Noiles 

♦John  W.  Patterson 
C.  Raymond  Peterson 
William  E.  Powers,  Jr. 
Paul  I.  Pressel 
L.  Howard  Reagan 
Lynwood  C.  Rice 

♦John  J.  Robinson 
George  W.  Sargent 
Herbert  E.  Sheldon 
Charles  C.  Tanona 
Christopher  T.  Terpo 
Stephen  J.  Turek,  Jr. 
Robert  M.  Twitchell 

♦John  G.  Underhill 
Frankly n  Williams 

♦Kimball  R.  Woodbury 


1945 
144  MEMBERS 
45  Contributors 
Frank  C.  Baginski 
Edwin  G.  Baldwin 


♦Albert  C.  Berry 

Robert  M.  Buck 

Carl  C.  Clark 

James  J.  Clerkin,  Jr. 

Paul  M.  Craig,  Jr. 

Stanley  R.  Cross,  Jr. 
♦William  P.  Densmore 

Edward  J.  Dolan 

Robert  E.  Duffy 

Harris  J.  Dufresne 

Robert  M.  Edgerly 
♦Richard  S.  Fitts 

Warren  H.  Fitzer 
♦Harold  Fleit 

John  W.  Fondahl 

Anson  C.  Fyler 

Howard  D.  Gerring 

Irving  Goldstein 

Olavi  H.  Halttunen 

John  T.  E.  Hegeman 

John  R.  Horan 

John  P.  Hyde 

Russell  E.  Jenkins 

Charles  H.  Johnson 

Philip  B.  Jones 
♦Franklin  S.  June 

Owen  W.  Kennedy,  Jr. 

PaulN.  Kokulis 

Ernest  R.  Kretzmer 
♦Eugene  C.  Logan 

Robert  W.  Lotz 

John  B.  McMaster 
♦Charles  A.  Morse,  Jr. 

Roger  N.  Perry,  Jr. 

Robert  E.  Powers 


Roger  P.  Roberge 
Robert  E.  Scott 
James  J.  Shea 
Frank  J.  Stefanov 
Stanley  B.  Thomson 

♦George  V.  Uihlein,  Jr. 

♦Warren  H.  Willard 
Edward  R.  Zieve 


1946 

137  MEMBERS 

30  Contributors 

Philip  S.  Adams 

Robert  C.  Appenzeller 

Robert  L.  Ballard 

John  Lott  Brown 

Nestor  Brown,  Jr. 

James  Bush,  Jr. 

Rodney  S.  Chase 

George  E.  Comstock  III 

Truman  S.  Dayton 
♦Alpheus  M.  Farnsworth 

Robert  H.  Farwell 

William  R.  Grogan 

John  E.  Hossack 
♦Joseph  H.  Johnson,  Jr. 

Frederick  J.  Kull 

Calvin  F.  Long 

Kenneth  A.  Lyons 
♦James  H.  Maloney,  Jr. 

Frederick  W.  Marvin 
♦Norman  W.  Padden 


Charles  M.  Richardson 

Richard  L.  Rodier 

Carl  F.  Simon,  Jr. 

Herbert  H.  Slaughter,  Jr. 
♦J.  Larry  Stewart 

Richard  M.  Underwood,  Jr. 
♦Davis  S.  Watson 

William  T.  Wells 

Malcolm  K.  White 

Thomas  M.  Zajac 

1946B 

105  MEMBERS 

28  Contributors  27 

Theodore  A.  Balaska 

Walter  J.  Bank 

William  R.  Bingham 

Robert  F.  Budge 

James  R.  Davis 

Robert  B.  Davis 

Theodore  E.  Gazda 

Prescott  E.  Grout 

Garabed  Hovhanesian 

Hazen  L.  Hoyt  III 

Robert  S.  Jacobson 
♦Wilbur  C.  Jones 

Alan  Kennedy 

Harry  J.  Mehrer,  Jr. 

Malcolm  A.  Morrison 
♦Peter  B.  Myers 

Thomas  W.  O'Brien 

Edmund  S.  Oshetsky 

Julius  A.  Palley 

Joseph  F.  Pofit 

Daniel  J.  Rice 


♦Albert  E.  Rockwood,  Jr. 
John  E.  Runninger 
Edward  H.  Smith 
Donald  A.  Soorian 
Clay  B.  Wade 
Delbert  E.  Walton 
Floyd  A.  Wyczalek 

1946C 

12  MEMBERS 
6  Contributors 
Joseph  J.  Conroy,  Jr. 
Philip  G.  Duffy 
Robert  E.  Hull 
John  H.  Knibb,  Jr. 
Cecil  Walton,  Jr. 
John  E.  Wilson 


1946D 

63  MEMBERS 
15  Contributors 
Allen  Breed 
James  B.  Evans,  Jr. 
Leslie  Flood 
Jordan  Franklin 
J.  Myron  Johnson 
John  Lee 
Joseph  P.  Manna 
Thomas  M.  McCaw 
John  C.  Meade 
Walter  O.  Muller 
Orville  T.  Ranger 
Manuel  Renasco 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


29 


George  W.  Schott 
Adelbert  W.  Whitman 
David  J.  Wright 


1947 

77  MEMBERS 

24  Contributors  31% 

*Robert  E.  Begley 

Carrol  E.  Burtner 

Morrel  H.  Cohen 

Wilfred  L.  Derocher,  Jr. 

Robert  Fletcher 
*Allan  Glazer 

John  P.  Harding,  Jr. 

George  E.  Kent,  Jr. 

Edward  J.  Lemieux 

Daniel  G.  Lewis,  Jr. 

Teddy  J.  Morawski 

Paul  D.  O'Donnell 

Edward  C.  Perry,  Jr. 

V.  Lawrence  Petersen 

William  J.  Rice 

Samuel  Ringel 

Walter  A.  Skers 

Russell  M.  Smith 

Edward  T.  Swierz 

Kenneth  H.  Truesdell 

Milford  R.  Vandusen 

John  H.  Williams,  Jr. 

William  A.  Williams 

Vincent  A.  Zike 

1948 

191  MEMBERS 

63  Contributors  33% 

George  W.  Allen 
*  David  L.  Anthony 

Richard  A.  Atwood 

Robert  E.  Beauregard 
♦William  A.  Beers 

Eli  G.  Braley,  Jr. 

Saverio  D.  Caloccia 

Edward  H.  Coburn,  Jr. 
♦Samuel  W.  Cocks 

John  J.  Concordia 
♦William  D.  Coulopoulos 

Norman  L.  Diegoli 

F.  Robert  Dieterle 

Edmund  C.  Dowse,  Jr. 

Edmund  J.  Eager 

John  W.  Ebbs 
♦Paul  E.  Evans 
♦Robert  G.  Ferguson 
♦Niel  I.  Fishman 

Donald  E.  Flohr 
♦Frederick  A.  Gammans 

Albert  S.  Goldberg 

Malcolm  G.  Gordon 

Harold  B.  Guerci 

Gordon  E.  Hall 

Sameer  S.  Hassan 
♦Thomas  D.  Hess 

Lawrence  F.  Hine 

Frank  S.  Holby 

PaulC.  Holden 
♦Richard  K.  Home 
♦Robert  H.  Houghton 

Robert  E.  Hubley 

Thomas  F.  Hunter 

Otto  Kern,  Jr. 

Maclean  Kirkwood,  Jr. 

Russell  H.  Krackhardt 

Francis  X.  Lambert 

William  M.  Land,  Jr. 
♦Lynwood  W.  Lentell 

Robert  M.  Lerner 

Leon  Lipton 

Charles  L.  Loveridge,  Jr. 
♦James  G.  McKernan 
♦Albert  J.  Merlini 
♦Allen  M.  Mintz 

Robert  E.  Nowell 

Alan  R.  Pearlman 

Arthur  L.  Pike 

Clark  L.  Poland 
♦Edward  J.  Powers 

Alan  K.  Riedel 

Edmund  J.  Salate 

Grant  W.  Schleich 

Kenneth  E.  Scott 
♦Daniel  H.  Sheingold 
♦Bernard  Siegel 

Roger  C.  Staples 

Prescott  A.  Stevens 

George  Strunz,  Jr. 

Alfred  C.  Syiek 

John  S.  Wolanin,  Jr. 

RusseU  W.  Wood 


1949 

243  MEMBERS 

84  Contributors  35% 

♦Walter  D.  Allen,  Jr. 
•Chester  L.  Anderson,  Jr. 

Matthew  M.  Babinski 

Robert  A.  Bareiss 


Paul  H.  Beaudry 
Walter  L.  Beckwith,  Jr. 
♦Karl  R.  Berggren,  Jr. 
Francis  J.  Bigda 
Thaddeus  S.  Bonczyk 
Lawrence  B.  Borst 
Gordon  S.  Brandes 
Lawrence  C.  Brautigam 
Fred  J.  Brennan 
Eugene  S.  Briggs 
Richard  W.  Brown 
Philip  G.  Buffinton 
Thomas  R.  Carlin 


Norman  E.  Baker 
Roland  F.  Bedard 
Richard  G.  Beschle 
John  F.  Brierly 
Paul  J.  Brown 
♦John  P.  Burgarella 
♦Joseph  J.  Burgarella,  Jr. 
Richard  H.  Carlson 
Stanley  P.  Carlson 
♦William  B.  Carpenter 
Harvey  W.  Carrier 
Everett  S.  Child,  Jr. 
Robert  Chin 


CHAPTER  LEADERS  -  AVERAGE  GIFT 


Chapter 

1.  Pacific  Northwest 

2.  Chicago 

3.  Pittsburgh 

4.  Washington 

5.  Out-of-District 


♦Walter  J.  Charow 
Howard  R.  Cheney,  Jr. 
Carroll  B.  Church 
Robert  W.  Cook 

♦Thomas  J.  Coonan  III 
Earl  R.  Cruff 
Paul  D.  Curran 
Wellen  G.  Davison 

♦Walter  G.  Dick 
Paul  R.  Dulong 

♦Malcolm  E.  Fersorr 
Samuel  E.  Franc,  Jr. 

♦James  M.  Genser 
Charles  F.  Gerber 
Gerald  H.  Gleason 
Robert  N.  Gowing 
William  V.  Halishak 
Albert  Hardaker 
George  K.  Howe 

♦William  A.  Jacques 

♦Peter  A.  Kahn 

♦Peter  Kalil 
Charles  T.  Layton 
Robert  E.  Lazzerin,  Jr. 
Daniel  L.  Lintz 
John  I.  Logan 
Lester  H.  Longton,  Jr. 
John  W.  Luoma 

♦Sidney  Madwed 
William  C.  Marcoux 
Daniel  L.  McQuillan 
Guy  D.  Metcalf 
Harry  H.  Mochon,  Jr. 
Henry  G.  Mogensen,  Jr. 
Clifton  C.  Nickerson 

♦Henry  J.  Oletz,  Jr. 

♦James  F.  Oregan 

♦Albin  O.  Pearson 
Herbert  M.  Pettee 
Murad  S.  Piligian 

♦William  J.  Ploran 
Robert  K.  Quattrochi 
Edward  W.  Randall 
William  C.  Reeves 
Raymond  J.  Remillard 
Carl  W.  Ringquist,  Jr. 
Hugh  M.  Robinson 
Robert  A.  Rowse 
Ellsworth  M.  Sammet 
Malcolm  A.  Sanborn 
Donald  R.  Sanders 
John  D.  Saunier 
Arthur  J.  Sherman,  Jr. 
Donald  R.  Skeffington 

♦Carrol  G.  Smith 
Jeremy  W.  Smith 
Stephen  J.  Spencer 
Joseph  T.  Starr 
♦Alfred  Strogoff 
♦Donald  Taylor 
Howard  C.  Tinkham 
Stephen  J.  Ucich 
Harvey  E.  Vigneault 
♦Burl  S.  Watson,  Jr. 
Donald  G.  Weikman 
John  J.  Wheeler 
John  H.  Williams 


1950 
213  MEMBERS 
83  Contributors 
Raymond  L.  Alvey,  Jr. 
John  O.  Archibald,  .Jr. 
William  E.  Bachmann 
Henry  H.  Baker,  Jr. 


Average  Gift 
$220.73 
$173.52 
$108.05 
$104.26 
$  90.33 


John  T.  Cocker 

Richard  Connell 

Donald  B.  Crane 

Thaddeus  F.  Cromwick 

Neil  J.  Crowley 
♦Henry  S.  C.  Cummings,  Jr. 

David  W.  Danielson 

James  C.  Dean 

Donald  E.  Deming 
♦Donald  W.  Dodge 

George  E.  Engman 

Howard  S.  Ewing 

William  F.  Fitzmaurice 

Stanley  Friedman 

Donald  W.  Giles 

Irwin  L.  Goodchild,  Jr. 

Saul  Gordon 

Fred  W.  Grant,  Jr. 

William  C.  Griggs 
♦R.  Reed  Grim  wade 

Charles  P.  Gure 

Earle  A.  N.  Hallstrom 

Frank  W.  Harding  III 

Daniel  J.  Harrington,  Jr. 

Richard  E.  Hathaway 

Sumner  W.  Herman 

Lawson  T.  Hill,  Jr. 

David  J.  Hudson 
♦Arthur  W.  Joyce,  Jr. 

Edmond  H.  Judd 
♦Francis  E.  Kearney 

Walther  A.  Keyl 

G.  Willard  King,  Jr. 

Ernest  A.  LaRose 

John  C.  Margo,  Jr. 

Norman  B.  Maynard 

Richard  W.  McGraw 

Thomas  J.  McNamara 

James  H.  Meiklejohn,  Jr. 

Edmund  L.  Nichols 

Martin  Nisenoff 

Helge  V.  Nordstrom 

Paul  D.  Nyquist 

Richard  C.  Olson 

Robert  A.  Padgett 

Kenneth  W.  Parsons 

Frank  W.  Pease 

John  W.  Peirce 

Robert  C.  Proctor,  Jr. 

Lester  J.  Reynolds,  Jr. 
♦Eh  S.  Sanderson 

Walter  C.  Scanlon 

Paul  F.  Seibold 

Frank  J.  Sherman  III 

Louis  Shulrnan 

John  C.  Slonczewski 
♦Robert  E.  Smith 

James  C.  J.  Sullivan 

Edmond  T.  Suydam 

Edward  J.  Sydor 

John  R.  Taylor 

Donald  W.  Thompson 

Joseph  R.  Toegemann 

Robert  J.  Van  Amburgh 

Edgar  R.  Vollaro 

Jeremy  Welts 


1951 
194  MEMBERS  37% 

71  Contributors 

Warner  S.  Adams 
•G.  Albert  Anderson 

Walter  R.  Anderson 

Gerald  F.  Atkinson 
'Ralph  W.  Aucrbach,  Jr. 


♦Bruce  M.  Bailey 

William  T.  Baker 

♦Leon  H.  Bassett 

Guido  Biagini 

Martin  G.  Bromberg 

Ashton  B.  Brown 

Robert  A.  Busch 

Bernard  D.  Callahan 

Robert  N.  Cochran 

Richard  A.  Coffey,  Jr. 

Donald  J.  Corey 

Richard  Davis 

John  A.  Dillon,  Jr. 
♦H.  Stuart  Dodge 

Walter  A.  Finneran 

Rafael  R.  Gabarro 
♦John  C.  George 

Arthur  H.  Gerald,  Jr. 

Edward  A.  Green 
♦Aime  J.  Grenier 

Halsey  E.  Griswold 

Peter  Groop 
♦William  H.  Haslett,  Jr. 

Bradford  F.  Hawley 

Herbert  J.  Hayes,  Jr. 

Richard  E.  Howard 
♦Harvey  L.  Howell 

Carl  E.  Johnson 

Laurent  C.  Jutras 

John  R.  Keefe,  Jr. 

Roger  W.  Lane 
♦Leo  E.  Lemere,  Jr. 
♦Edward  L.  Lewis 

Stanley  R.  Lindberg 

Albert  H.  Lorentzen 

Robert  M.  Luce 

Dewey  R.  Lund 

Frank  A.  MacPherson 

Kenneth  E.  Mayo 
♦William  J.  McNeil 

Theodore  A.  Mellor 

Stanley  L.  Miller 

Edward  C.  Moroney,  Jr. 
♦Charles  F.  Mulrenan 
♦Duncan  W.  Munro 

Edwin  H.  Nahikian 
♦Roy  H.  Olson 

Irving  F.  Orrell,  Jr. 

Charles  C.  Peirce 

Neal  D.  Peterson 

Donald  L.  Poggi 

John  L.  Reid 
♦James  E.  Rich 
♦Robert  W.  Rodier 
♦Kurt  A.  Schneider 

Lester  A.  Slocum,  Jr. 

Vartkes  Sohigian 

A.  William  Spencer 

Anthony  B.  Stefanov 

Donald  F.  Stockwell 
♦Roger  W.  Swanson 

Henry  D.  Taylor 

Joseph  S.  Vitalis,  Jr. 

Alfred  J.  Wheeler 

Alan  E.  Willis 
♦Robert  C.  Wolff 


1952 

174  MEMBERS 

56  Contributors  329S 

♦Daniel  T.  Bernatowicz 

George  K.  Borski 

Albert  N.  Brauer 
♦Charles  F.  Crathern  III 

Philip  B.  Crommelin,  Jr. 

John  W.  Diachenko 

Monroe  M.  Dickinson,  Jr. 
♦Michael  J.  Essex,  Jr. 
♦David  R.  Fairbanks 

Edward  M.  Felkel 
♦Ray  N.  Fenno 

Alan  S.  Foss 

Richard  T.  Gates 

Richard  C.  Gillette 

Robert  H.  Goff 

Robert  A.  Heller 

Edward  A.  Hjerpe,  Jr. 

Eugene  A.  Jakaitis 

Walter  F.  Jaros,  Jr. 
♦George  Jeas 
♦Joseph  Jiunnies 
♦Robert  D.  Johnson 

Earl  C.  Klaubert 

Chester  S.  Kolaczyk 

Donald  M.  Krauss 

David  A.  Kujala 

Kenneth  T.  Lang 
•Elliott  W.  Lewis 

Joseph  D.  Lojcwski 

Leo  O.  Lut/ 

John  M.  M. it], mi. hi 

Harold  J.  Manley 

Philip  J.  O'Connor 
»Eve»tt  B.  Palmer 

Benjamin  Pano 

Charles  F.  Reichcrt 

H.  Burton  Kendall 


Warren  W.  Root 
♦Walter  H.  Rothman 
George  M.  Seidel 
Henry  Shapiro 
♦F.  Patterson  Smith 
Roland  R.  St.  Louis 
Robert  E.  Sullivan 
♦Charles  W.  Thrower 
Charles  P.  Toscano 
John  M.  Tracy 
♦Alden  F.  Tucker 
♦Robert  F.  Turek 
♦George  F.  Whittle 
♦Richard  B.  Will 
♦Gordon  C.  Willard 
Robert  G.  Williams 
Edward  A.  Wolfe 
Donald  B.  Youngdahl 
Richard  A.  Zeleny 


1953 

174  MEMBERS 

55  Contributors  i 

John  E.  Allen,  Jr. 

Conrad  M.  Banas 

Robert  T.  Baxter 
♦David  E.  Beach 

Robert  E.  Behringer 
♦John  R.  Black 

Henry  J.  Camosse 

Donald  R.  Campbell 

Joseph  W.  Carr 

Robert  E.  Chiabrandy 

Arthur  L.  Danforth 
♦Richard  A.  Davis 

Frederick  De  Boer 
♦Charles  O.  Dechand 
♦Ralph  J.  Digiovanni 
♦David  M.  Elovitz 

Robert  W.  Fitzgerald 

Charles  D.  Flanagan 

John  E.  Flynn 
♦Kendall  F.  Forsberg 

John  H.  Gearin,  Jr. 

Richard  J.  Hall 

David  B.  Hallock 

Sidney  R.  Harvey 

Randall  B.  Haydon 

Kenneth  M.  Healy 
♦Michael  N.  Hoechstetter 

David  G.  Holmes 
♦David  S.  Jenney 

Robert  G.  Lunger 
♦Francis  W.  Madigan,  Jr. 

William  G.  Mears 

John  P.  Morrill 

Herbert  P.  Narbeshuber 

Thomas  P.  O'Connor 

Donald  S.  Oliver 

Herbert  S.  Peterson 

Raymond  L.  Peterson 

G.  Raymond  Polen 

Robert  A.  Pratt 

Thomas  H.  Rothwell 
♦Eugene  L.  Rubin 
♦Anthony  J.  Ruksnaitis 

Leo  A.  Salmen 

George  E.  Saltus 
♦Philip  E.  Simon,  Jr. 

Hubert  G.  Stanton,  Jr. 

Henry  L.  Sundberg,  Jr. 

Donald  W.  Sundstrom 
♦David  T.  Van  Covern 

Henry  A.  Vasil 

William  M.  Walsh 

Robert  C.  Woodward 

Tauno  K.  Wuorinen 

Michael  S.  Zucker 


1954 

145  MEMBERS 
45  Contributors 

♦Paul  R.  Alasso 

♦Owen  F.  Allen 
W.  Richard  Byrnes 
Harry  F.  Chapell 
Allan  J.  Costantin 

♦Walter  H.  Dziura 
Joseph  J.  Fratino 
Francis  J.  Gamari 
David  F.  Gilbert 

•George  A.  Gingras 
Carl  A.  Hammar 

•Leigh  H.  Hickcox 
George  Idlis 
D.  Alden  Johnson 
.l.i.ik  Jurison 
Thomas  C.  Kee 
Jerome  W.  Kilburne 
King  D.  KUlin 

•Uirh.ird  D.  Kirk 
Walter  J.  Kirk 
Richard  w.  Undqulsl 
S.  Paul  London 

•Russell  R.  Lussicr 

•Douglas  B.  MacLorcn 


30 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Harry  L.  Mirick,  Jr. 
Stanley  P.  Negus,  Jr. 
Howard  I.  Nelson 
Werner  M.  Neupert 
James  J.  O'Connor,  Jr. 
Richard  V.  Olson 
Robert  F.  Oram 
Fabian  Pinkham 
Richard  D.  Popp 
Edward  J.  Power,  Jr. 
Walter  A.  Reibling 
Donald  E.  Ross 
Richard  B.  Scott 
William  A.  Seubert 
Edwin  Shivell 
Donald  W.  Smith 
Walter  M.  Stewart 
Bernard  D.  Szarek 
Wilfred  F.  Taylor 
Otto  A.  Wahlrab 
Howard  P.  Whittle 

1955 

136  MEMBERS 
45  Contributors  31 

Gerald  R.  Backlund 
Hans  Badertscher 
Roger  F.  Bardwell 
Hugh  C.  Bell 
Earl  M.  Bloom,  Jr. 
Edouard  S.  P.  Bouvier 
Gedney  B.  Brown 
Paul  W.  Brown,  Jr. 
Edward  M.  Cahill 
John  C.  Calhoun 
Dean  M.  Carlson 
J.  R.  Normand  Casaubon 
John  W.  Cnossen 
James  D.  Colopoulous 
iDavid  S.  Dayton 
iLawrence  F.  Dennis 
Frederick  E.  Drake 
Wilfrid  G.  Dudevoir 
J  Alan  W.  Ede 
Louis  A.  Gaumond 
Daniel  A.  Grant,  Jr. 
Robert  J.  Horrigan 
Peter  H.  Horstmann 
Robert  A.  Junior 
Brian  J.  Kelly 
Richard  C.  Lindstrom 
Richard  A.  Loomis 
James  S.  Mathews 
:Charles  F.  McDonough 
Donald  M.  McNamara 
Ralph  K.  Mongeon,  Jr. 
'Edwin  F.  Nesman 
Robert  E.  Olson 
Robert  H.  Pearce 
Walter  B.  Power,  III 
Richard  A.  Rader 
George  A.  Robbins,  Jr. 
Kenneth  H.  Russell 
Reynald  J.  Sansoucy 
^Robert  J.  Schultz 
Tarek  M.  A.  Shawaf 
Robert  C.  Stempel 
Allan  R.  Twitchell 
"Charles  F.  Walters 
Gordon  E.  Walters 

1956 

154  MEMBERS 

49  Contributors  3 

Joseph  J.  Alekshun,  Jr. 

Christian  S.  Baehrecke 

Albert  D.  Battista 

Clifford  W.  Burwick 
♦Edwin  B.  Coghlin,  Jr. 
♦Christopher  R.  Collins 

Joseph  J.  Concordia 

Bernard  R.  Danti 

Robert  M.  Delahunt 

Henry  J.  Dumas,  Jr. 

James  L.  Forand 

James  W.  Green 
:  Charles  E.  Gunn 

Raymond  R.  Hagglund 

Richard  G.  Hajec 

Lawrence  B.  Horrigan,  Jr. 

Robert  A.  Hoyt 
♦Allan  R.  Hunderup 
♦John  L.  Hyde,  II 

William  A.  Johnson 
i  Florian  J.  Jolda 

William  F.  Jordan,  Jr. 

Arthur  G.  Kennard 

Robert  E.  Kleid 

Hans  H.  Koehl 

Alan  G.  Larsson 

Donald  N.  Lathrop 

William  E.  Lloyd 

Vilho  A.  Lucander 

Raymond  J.  Lussier 

George  Marks 

Richard  J.  McBride 

Robert  E.  Mulno 

John  M.  Nash 


*Henry  W.  Nowick 
David  A.  Pratt 
James  K.  Prifti 
Steven  A.  Quart 
Lanny  E.  Remillard 
Roy  A.  Seaberg,  Jr. 
Harold  F.  Smith 
Irwin  J.  Smith,  III 
Winslow  M.  Spofford 
Peter  J.  Stephens 
Roger  H.  Tancrell 
John  A.  Taylor 

*Harry  W.  Tenney,  Jr. 
Ronald  A.  Venezia 
Thomas  O.  Wright 

1957 

211  MEMBERS 
69  Contributors 
Crosby  L.  Adams 
Edwin  R.  Ahlstrom 
Arthur  W.  Anderson 
John  H.  Atchison,  Jr. 
Thomas  E.  Baker 

♦Alfred  E.  Barry 
Robert  H.  Beckett 
Anthony  C.  Berg 
Donald  F.  Berth 
Rene  R.  Bertrand 
Charles  H.  Bidwell,  Jr. 
Louis  A.  Blanchard 
John  W.  Braley,  Jr. 
James  H.  Brigham 
Daniel  A.  Bundza 
John  L.  Buzzi 
Alan  J.  Carlan 
Allan  E.  Carlson 
James  A.  Cheney 
Donald  G.  Craig 
George  E.  Crosby 
Richard  A.  Dahlin 
Harry  Der  Harootunian 
Howard  C.  Dickson 
Edward  W.  Eidt,  Jr. 
Robert  P.  Engvall 
Richard  J.  Ferguson 
Albert  G.  Ferron 
Seymour  L.  Friedman 
Ronald  S.  Fuller 
Robert  F.  Galligan 
Edward  L.  Gallini 
Stephen  Z.  Gunter 
Alan  R.  Gustafson 
William  P.  Hennessey 
Kenneth  E.  Hermance 
John  M.  Hoban 
Charles  C.  Johnston 
Charles  H.  Kelsey,  Jr. 
Alvin  C.  Lanson 
George  H.  Long,  Jr. 
Frederick  P.  Mertens 
John  D.  Minott 
Paul  M.  Mitchell 
Edward  J.  Moineau 
Richard  F.  Moore 
Leon  A.  Morgan 
Arthur  Nedvin 
David  N.  Olson 
Alex  C.  Papaioannou 
David  C.  Penkus 
Collins  M.  Pomeroy 
Ronald  A.  Samiljan 
John  M.  Sarkisian 
Ralph  P.  Schlenker 
Arthur  Shahian 
Richard  M.  Silven 
Oscar  O.  St.  Thomas 
Michael  J.  Stephens 
David  E.  Stuart 
Alvin  E.  Tanner 
Leo  R.  Toomajian,  Jr. 
Charles  A.  Tyson 

*Spiro  L.  Vrusho 

♦  Joseph  J.  Weber 
D.  Carl  Webster 

♦Robert  P.  Weis 

♦Charles  A.  Whitney 
Ronald  Wilson 


1958 

219  MEMBERS 
67  Contributors 
Donald  D.  Abraham 
Donald  W.  Bean 
Robert  J.  Boyea 
Christopher  Brayton 
William  S.  Brower,  Jr. 
Robert  J.  Bugley 
Donald  J.  Butterworth 
Bernard  M.  Campbell,  Jr. 
Richard  H.  Campbell 
Richard  M.  Chapman 
David  S.  Crimmins 
Paul  Dalton 
Paul  M.  Dalton 
T.  Roger  Danielson 
♦Francis  DeFalco 


James  S.  Demetry 
♦David  B.  Denniston 

Harold  O.  Denzer,  Jr. 

Peter  C.  Dirksen,  Jr. 

Larry  Dworkin 

David  E.  Edfors 

Edward  C.  Fraser 

Philip  M.  French,  Jr. 

Michael  M.  Galbraith 

C.  Stewart  Gentsch 

William  F.  Gess,  Jr. 

Donald  R.  Grenon 
♦Richard  A.  Hammond 

David  A.  Helman 

Arthur  J.  Hesford 
♦William  H.  Hopf 

Perry  E.  Joslin 

Robert  M.  Kanen 
♦Ronald  D.  Kangas 
♦Marian  C.  Knight 

Joel  Korelitz 

Bertrand  J.  Leniieux 

Philip  C.  Lenz,  Jr. 

Fred  M.  Levin 

Robert  H.  MacGillivray 
♦William  R.  McLeod,  Jr. 

Robert  A.  Moore 

Philip  L.  Morse 

William  E.  Mullarkey 

William  J.  O'Neil 
♦Peter  J.  Ottowitz 
♦Sherman  K.  Poultney 

Joaquim  S.  S.  Ribeiro 

Bernard  V.  Ricciardi 

Harvey  M.  Robbin 

Harvey  G.  Roberts 

Joseph  R.  Russo 

Harry  R.  Rydstrom 

William  P.  Segulin 

Ralph  E.  Sellars,  Jr. 

Robert  C.  Simmonds,  Jr. 

Carlton  W.  Staples 

Howard  K.  Steves 

Norman  P.  Stotz 

Carl  A.  Strand 

Robert  B.  Sundheim 

Norman  J.  Taupeka 

Robert  W.  Thornton 

Robert  W.  Weinberg 

Robert  F.  Wolff,  Jr. 

Peter  J.  Zanini,  Jr. 

William  F.  Zavatkay 

1959 

260  MEMBERS 
78  Contributors 
James  A.  Alfieri 
Robert  A.  Allen 
William  H.  Bailey 
James  E.  Bean 
Robert  A.  Berg 
♦Peter  K.  Bertsch 
Robert  E.  Bober 


F.  William  Farnsworth 
George  M.  Fotiades 

♦Bradford  J.  Harper 

♦William  C.  Hees 
Michael  A.  Hertzberg 
Robert  W.  Hoag 
David  G.  Holloway 
Richard  B.  Hoyt 
Thomas  F.  Humphrey 
Chester  F.  Jacobson 
Robert  Kieltyka 
Donald  E.  Kirk 

♦Roger  W.  Kuenzel 
James  M.  Lawson 
John  G.  Leonidas 
Frederick  H.  Lutze,  Jr. 
Robert  H.  Lynn 
Robert  B.  Massad 
John  A.  McManus 
Donald  R.  Nelson 
Erdic  G.  Nichols 
Thomas  J.  O'Connor 

♦Arthur  Olsen,  Jr. 
Richard  S.  Orehotsky 
Roger  A.  Pekrul 
George  E.  Picard 
Alexander  L.  Pratt 

♦Robert  L.  Price 

♦Philip  H.  Puddington 
Frederick  W.  Reinhart 
Leon  Remer 
Donald  J.  Richards 
George  P.  Rizzi 
Richard  J.  Ronskavitz 

♦Edward  A.  Saulnier 
David  A.  Sawin 
Robert  V.  Sharkey 
Robert  D.  Smith 
Stanley  W.  Sokoloff 
Malcolm  G.  Stearns 
Paul  M.  Stone 
David  B.  Sullivan 
Ronald  F.  Swenson 
Alexander  Swetz,  Jr. 

♦Edwin  D.  Tenney 
Winthrop  M.  Wassenar 
John  L.  Wheeler 
Douglas  R.  Willoughby 

♦John  E.  Wolfe 
Geza  C.  Ziegler 

1960 

266  MEMBERS 
67  Contributors 

Ernest  W.  Arnold,  Jr. 

♦Paul  W.  Bayliss 
George  S.  Beebe 
Ronald  J.  Brochu 
Shepard  B.  Brodie 

♦Ronald  A.  Carlson 
Robert  A.  Chechile 
Dwight  M.  Cornell 
John  J.  Czertak,  Jr. 


25% 


Peter  A.  Lajoie 
Sang  K.  Lee 
Edward  E.  Lindberg 

♦Richard  A.  Loring 
Walter  S.  Lund 
Stuart  W.  Macomber 
Peter  H.  Manz 
Alfred  P.  Materas,  Jr. 
Kenneth  L.  Matson 

♦Richard  S.  Meyer 
James  P.  Modrak 
Derek  S.  Morris 
Warren  T.  Munroe 
Robert  R.  Nelson 
William  R.  Nimee 
John  S.  O'Connell,  Jr. 
Ronald  F.  Pokraka 
Robert  E.  Purpura 
Leonard  F.  Rago 
Norton  S.  Remmer 
Stuart  P.  Roberts 

♦Robert  A.  St.  Jean 

♦George  J.  Schoen 

♦Bernard  J.  Seastrom 
Franklin  Siegel 
Donald  Sieurin 
Fred  S.  Snively 
John  E.  Stauffer 
Paul  B.  Stewart 

♦H.  David  Sutton 
Kenneth  S.  Vardion 
Thomas  C.  Waage 
Robert  M.  Wallace 
Elbert  K.  Weaver 

♦David  J.  Welch 
Stanley  C.  Wells,  Jr. 

♦Bruce  G.  Willbrant 


1961 

304  MEMBERS 
90  Contributors 
Henry  P.  Allessio 
Edward  A.  Altieri 
Robert  R.  Beaudry 
William  C  alder.  III 
Thomas  K.  Caste 
Harold  A.  Christopher 
Charles  S.  Cook 
Robert  C.  Crawford 
Bradford  S.  Cushing 
Seymour  Davidson 
Richard  T.  Davis 
Robert  B.  Davis 
Ronald  W.  Dufries 
James  M.  Dunn 
Rick  L.  Duval,  Jr. 
Michael  V.  Economou 

♦Kenneth  R.  Engvall 
Richard  H.  Federico 

♦George  F.  Foxhall 
H.  Richard  Freeman 
Wayne  F.  Galusha 
William  H.  Gill,  Jr. 


CHAPTER  LEADERS - 
PERCENTAGE  PARTICIPATION 


CHAPTER 

1.  Niagara  Peninsula 

2.  Cleveland-Akron 

3.  Cincinnati 


%  PARTI- 
Ct  PA  TION 

57% 
54% 
53% 


4.  Northern  (Mew  Jersey      50% 

5.  Northern  California         47% 

6.  St.  Louis  47% 


KEY  MAN 

0.  Arnold  Hansen,  '25 

Richard  D.  Popp, '54 

Stephen  D.  Donahue,  Jr.,  '63 

George  A.  Walker,  '22 

Paul  W.  Bayliss, '60 

Raymond  J.  Remillard,  '49 

Herman  W.  Dorn, '33 


Paul  A.  Bonczyk 
Robert  L.  Bourget 
Richard  C.  Bourne 
Richard  L.  Bratt 
Frederick  G.  Broshjeit 
30%  Joseph  P.  Burger 

Neil  T.  Buske 
Frank  M.  Cohee,  Jr. 
Leo  F.  Cournoyer 
Lee  H.  Courtemanche 
Joseph  F.  Coveney 
William  F.  Curran 
David  G.  Daubney 
Clifford  H.  Daw,  Jr. 
John  L.  Dehnert 
Normand  P.  Depratti 
Thomas  J.  Downs 
Leonard  L.  Dutram 
EU  J.  Dworkin 
Anthony  E.  Engstrom 
♦David  A.  Evensen 


Fidele  L.  Dipippo 
Harry  F.  Dizoglio 
Edward  P.  Donoghue 
Carleton  D.  Driscoll 
Cornelius  J.  Enright,  Jr. 
Earl  G.  Erickson 
Douglas  O.  Farrand 
Russell  A.  Fransen 
David  R.  Geoffroy 
James  G.  Hackendorf 
Richard  P.  Harding 
Norman  M.  Hardy 
Eric   A.  Hauptmann 
W.  Kenneth  Hildick 
Thomas  Houston 
Henry  G.  Hyde 
Richard  P.  Ibsen 
David  A.  Johnson 
Carl  H.  Karlsson 
Robert  F.  Kasprow 
♦Francis  J.  Kaszynski,  Jr. 


Norman  I.  Ginsburg 
Martin  S.  Gordon 

♦Robert  R.  Hale 
John  H.  Herron 
Bradley  E.  Hosmer 
Richard  B.  Hosmer 

♦Lawrence  L.  Israel 
Asjed  A.  Jalil 
G.  Leonard  Johnson 
Walter  H.  Johnson 
Arthurs.  Kamlet 
Mel  G.  Keegan 
Peter  F.  Kuniholm 
Richard  W.  Lamothe 
Steven  H.  Lerman 
Roger  R.  Lesieur 
John  B.  Lewis 
Paul  A.  L.  Mannheim 
Charles  W.  Mello 
William  B.  Montgomery 
Richard  J.  Moore 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


31 


Geraid  A.  Mullaney 
*Richard  H.  Nelson 

John  F.  Ogorzalek 

Daniel  F.  O'Grady,  Jr. 

David  Q.  Olson 

John  J.  O'Meara 

Richard  L.  O'Shea 

Kenneth  I.  Parker 
*Thomas  E.  Postma 

Lloyd  W.  Pote 

John  W.  Powers 

David  W.  Prosser 

David  M.  Raab 

John  V.  Ridick 

Donald  C.  Root 

Alan  C.  Roseen 

Paul  B.  Roseen,  Jr. 

Louis  J.  Rossi 

Sheldon  W.  Rothstein 

Pierce  E.  Rowe 

Merrill  Rutman 

Donald  J.  Schulz 
♦Robert  E.  Seamon 
♦Allan  P.  Sherman 

Ralph  F.  Smith,  III 

Richard  D.  Souren 

Frederic  A.  Stevens 

Robert  Stewart 

Peter  J.  Sugda 

Joseph  W.  Sullivan 

Edward  A.  Sundburg,  Jr. 

James  W.  Swaine,  Jr. 
♦Richard  E.  Taylor 

John  Tomkins,  Jr. 

Ralph  R.  Trotter 

Frank  A.  Verprauskus 

Kenneth  J.  Virkus 

Richard  H.  Vogel 

Ronald  C.  Ward 

Robert  A.  Weiss 

Robert  C.  Whittum 

Charles  E.  Wilkes 
♦Stanley  L.  Wilson 

Bruce  W.  Woodford 

Joseph  N.  Wrubel 

George  M.  Yule 

Rimas  A.  Zinas 


1962 

244  MEMBERS 
59  Contributors 
Daniel  J.  Brosnihan,  III 
William  A.  Brutsch 
James  F.  Carrigan 
Robert  R.  Cassanelli 

♦Robert  A.  Cawood 

♦Robert  W.  Chapin 
Hubert  M.  Cole,  Jr. 
Keyren  H.  Cotter,  Jr. 

♦Richard  J.  Di  Buono 
Bruce  W.  Dudley 
Victor  P.  Dufault 
Robert  A.  Eddy 
Jacob  N.  Erlich 
James  L.  Forand,  Jr. 

♦George  H.  Forsberg 
Joel  N.  Freedman 
David  L.  Goodman 
Jerald  N.  Hamernick 
Wilfred  G.  Harvey,  Jr. 
Ralph  A.  Herrick 
Jay  P.  Hochstaine 
Neil  J.  Jorgensen 
William  A.  Krein 
Vaidotas  Kuzminskas 
Kenneth  J.  Lloyd 
David  A.  Luoma 
William  C.  MacDonald 
Frank  J.  Maher 
Peter  J.  Martin 
Roger  G.  Massey 
Casimir  J.  Matonis 
John  J.  McDonnell 
Howard  L.  McGill,  Jr. 
Robert  E.  Mcintosh,  Jr. 

♦Ray  S.  Messenger 
Donald  L.  Mongeon 
Michael  A.  Moses 
David  P.  Norton 
Bryce  A.  Norwood 

♦Brian  J.  O'Connell 
Stephen  B.  Osterling 

♦Peter  A.  Parrino 
Thomas  E.  Quinn 
Harry  T.  Rapelje 
♦Donald  F.  Sanger 
Richard  A.  Scott 
William  J.  Shepherd 
•David  K.  Smith 
Thomas  S.  Staron,  Jr. 
Stanley  J.  Strychaz,  Jr. 
Joseph  T.  Swartzbaugh 
Walker  T.  Thompson 
John  R.  Tufano 
•Thomas  J.  Tully 
Myron  R.  Waldman 
Stanley  M.  Wilbur 
Robert  P.  Wilder 


Richard  P.  Williamson 
♦Robert  H.  York 


1963 

249  MEMBERS 

62  Contributors  ' 

Richard  L.  Ailing 

Charles  M.  Beck,  II 

Robert  D.  Behn 

Peter  A.  Bizzigotti 

Joseph  V.  Bucciaglia 

Paul  E.  Cahalen 

Richard  T.  Dann 

Rajnikant  P.  Dave 

Stephen  D.  Donahue,  Jr. 
♦David  E.  Dunklee,  Jr. 

George  D.  Eldridge 

Richard  E.  Epstein 

Lawrence  N.  Escott 
♦Roger  D.  Flood 

John  H.  Geffken 

Ralph  D.  Gelling 

Charles  N.  Goddard 

Bruce  G.  Goodale 

Willard  W.  Goodwin,  Jr. 

Robert  H.  Gowdy 

Leslie  J.  Hart 

Robert  J.  Hermes 
♦Allen  H.  Hoffman 

Harry  A.  Hoyen,  Jr. 

George  B.  Hunt 

Richard  A.  Iacobucci 

Robert  D.  Jamaitis 

William  G.  Kanabis 

James  M.  Kelly,  Jr. 

Francis  E.  Kennedy,  Jr. 

David  A.  Kilikewich 

Robert  P.  Kostka 

Chi-Ming  Li 

Daniel  J.  Lizdas 

John  Machonis,  Jr. 

Robert  M.  Malb6n 
♦Howard  I.  McDevitt,  Jr. 
♦Roger  C.  McGee 

James  W.  McKenzie 

Charles  G.  Menzigian 
♦Joseph  J.  Mielinski,  Jr. 

Stephen  P.  Mozden,  Jr. 

David  G.  Nevers 
♦David  R.  Nordin 

Phillip  L.  Parmenter 

Daniel  J.  Pender 

Russell  E.  Person 

Edward  A.  Platow 

Edward  J.  Polewarczyk 

Frederic  D.  Riley 

Donald  B.  Robertson 

John  J.  Salerno 

John  H.  Sistare 

Warren  R.  Standley 

Gordon  O.  Stearns 

Nishan  Teshoian 

David  A.  Tone 
♦Paul  W.  Ulcickas 

George  P.  Vittas 

Gerald  D.  Waxman 

Allan  R.  Whittum 

David  E.  Woodman 


1964 

287  MEMBERS 
63  Contributors 
Douglas  W.  Anderson 
J.  Michael  Anderson 
Peter  Baker 
Robert  M.  Barned 
Thomas  S.  Baron 
Leon  S.  Bedard 

♦Stuart  P.  Bowen 
Joseph  B.  Brinkmann 
Martin  C.  Cosgrove 
William  A.  Cote 
Anthony  Croce 
Edward  L.  Cure 
Willard  R.  Davis 
Peter  L.  Domemann 

♦Raymond  G.  Dube 

♦James  E.  Gaffney 
Bradley  T.  Gale 
Robert  L.  Garrison  . 
David  L.  Gendron 
Stephen  A.  Harvey 
David  A.  Helming 
Larry  G.  Hull 
Bruce  M.  Juhola 
Paul  J.  Keating 

•Wayne  H.  Keene 
Eugene  S.  Killian 
Daniel  S.  King 
Ronald  P.  Klay 
Joseph  L.  LaCava 

•M.  Stephen  Lajoie 
Paul  A.  Lilh-nih.il 
Bruce  S.  Maccabee 
Thomas  G.  McGee 
Steven  D.  Mitlleman 
Thomas  J.  Mod/clcwski 


♦Harold  E.  Monde,  Jr. 
Robert  H.  Morse 
William  J.  Museler 
Thomas  B.  Newman,  Jr. 
Bruce  A.  Ochieano 
James  W.  Oldziey 

♦Robert  W.  Palmer 

♦Robert  E.  Parker 
Robert  A.  Peura 
William  R.  Phillips 
Alfred  R.  Potvin 
Kenneth  N.  Robbins 

♦Robert  Rounds,  Jr. 
John  C.  Ryder 
Frederic  C.  Scofield,  III 
William  E.  Shanok 
David  T.  Signori,  Jr. 
Thomas  W.  Spargo 
George  V.  Spires,  HI 
David  T.  Stone 
William  T.  Swanson,  II 
Gerald  E.  Tammi 
Peter  J.  Tancredi 
John  J.  Tasillo,  Jr. 
S.  William  Wandle,  Jr. 

♦James  C.  Ward,  Jr. 
Paul  B.  Watson 
Stephen  H.  Wilcox 


1965 

307  MEMBERS 

66  Contributors  21 

H.  Slayton  Altenburg 

Philip  I.  Bachelder 

Homer  J.  Belanger 

Richard  N.  Brown 

Randall  L.  Burr 
♦Alexander  B.  Campbell,  II 
♦Donald  C.  Carlson 
♦Richard  J.  Cavallaro 

Robert  E.  Cavallaro 

Ronald  H.  Chand 
♦Stephen  L.  Cloues 
♦David  B.  Cooley 

Gary  C.  Coram 
♦James  A.  Day 

James  T.  Dobrowolski 

Frederick  J.  Dunn 
♦Harry  S.  Forrest 

Richard  C.Fortier 

Bennett  E.  Gordon,  Jr. 

Ronald  G.  Greene 

Peter  A.  Heibeck 

William  F.  Hines,  Jr. 

George  W.  Holland 

Robert  A.  Howard 

Kenneth  J.  Hultgren 

Charles  F.  Hunnicut 

John  P.  Jacobson 

Donald  P.  Johnson 
♦John  J.  Josti 

James  A.  Keith 

Donald  L.  Kerr 

Sidney  S.  Klein 

Victor  J.  Knorowski 

Robert  J.  Kost 

Allan  W.  Low,  Jr. 
♦David  B.  Luber 


♦David  M.  Schwaber 
♦Henry  J.  Skonieczny 

Donald  C.  Sundberg 

Eugene  G.  Sweeney,  Jr. 

Alfred  G.  Symonds 
♦Kenneth  W.  Terry 
♦Jeffrey  W.  Thwing 
♦Russell  B.  Trask 
♦Bruce  R.  Webber 

Anton  J.  West,  Jr. 
♦John  T.  Wilson 

Ronald  W.  Wood 

William  H.  Wyman 

Bruce  C.  Yung 

John  G.  Zwyner 


1966 
303  MEMBERS 

78  Contributors 

♦Gary  M.  Anderson 
Brian  N.  Belanger 
L.  Thomas  Benoit,  Jr. 
Philip  S.  Blackman 
John  J.  Braun 
Wayne  M.  Brown 
Paul  M.  Bujak 
Richard  A.  Calvert 
John  H.  Carosella 
Paul  M.  Castle 
William  V.  Collentro 

♦Douglas  H.  Crowell 
J.  Ronald  Crump 
Bernard  F.  Duesel,  Jr. 
John  G.  Dyckman 

♦Joachim  W.  Dziallas 

♦William  F.  Elliott 
Donald  H.  Foley 
Stephen  J.  Formica 
Christopher  G.  Foster 
Brian  J.  Gallagher 
Brendan  J.  Geelan 
John  I.  Gilbert 
Richard  L.  Healer 
Stephen  J.  Hebert 
Carl  E.  Hellstrom 
Robert  M.  Holt 

♦Philip  J.  Hopkinson 
David  C.  Johnson 

♦David  L.  Jorczak 
David  R.  Klimaj 
Keith  L.  Knowlton 
Robert  P.  Kokernak 
Walter  S.  Kuczek,  Jr. 
Peter  J.  Kudless 

♦Ernest  J.  Kunz,  Jr. 

♦John  H.  Lauterbach 
Paul  R.  Lindberg 

♦Peter  H.  Lukesh 
John  V.  Magnano 
Daniel  J.  Maguire 
Paul  R.  Malnati 
Michael  R.  Mauro 
Alan  W.  Moksu 
Donald  J.  Mugnai 

♦Ronald  F.  Naventi 
Richard  B.  Nelson 
Donald  R.  Nitsche 

♦Harry  B.  Ogasian 


♦Peter  G.  Stebbins 
Robert  S.  Sternschein 
Richard  A.  Stone 
Ronald  Swers 
Ronald  A.  Tata 
Stephen  K.  Taylor 
Gerard  A.  Toupin 
Alfred  T.  Vasseur 
Leonard  J.  Weckel 
Malcom  C.  White,  Jr. 
Shelton  B.  Wicker,  Jr. 
David  E.  Wilson 
Eugene  B.  Wilusz 

♦Roger  J.  Zipfel 


1967 

330  MEMBERS 
70  Contributors  21% 

♦Stephen  R.  Alpert 
♦Arthur  F.  Amend 
John  F.  Armata,  Jr. 
Daniel  G.  Ballan 
Roger  V.  Bartholomew 
Charles  T.  Blanchard 
Peter  J.  Bondy 
Edward  S.  Ciarpella 
Joseph  J.  Cieplak 
William  E.  Cobb 
David  R.  Collette 
Stephen  B.  Cotter 
♦Richard  H.  Court,  Jr. 
Francis  L.  Dacri 
Robert  J.  Dashner 
Richard  E.  Degennaro 
Robert  V.  Delia 
Ronald  J.  Dill 
James  P.  Dunn 
John  A.  Facca 
♦John  B.  Feldman 

Emilio  J.  Fernandez 
♦Peter  N.  Formica 
Raymond  J.  Fortin 
Charles  T.  Foskett 
♦Steven  J.  Frymer 
♦Edward  A.  Gallo 

Lawrence  R.  Gooch 

Ronald  J.  Gordon 
♦Joseph  F.  Goulart 

Robert  F.  Hellen 
♦Frederick  P.  Helm 

Allen  J.  Ikalainen 
♦Bradford  A.  Johnson 

Ronald  A.  Jolicoeur 

Joel  B.  Kameron 

Marshall  A.  Kaplan 

Thomas  A.  Keenan 

Robert  A.  Kennedy,  III 
♦John  L.  Kilguss 

Richard  M.  King 

David  P.  Kokalis 
♦Stephen  J.  Lak,  Jr. 

Alan  E.  Larson 

Russell  A.  Lukes 

Robert  E.  Lundstrom 

James  W.  Manning 
♦Robert  G.  McAndrew 

William  O.  Messer 

John  W.  Miller 


CHAPTER  LEADERS  -  CONTRIBUTION  GOALS 


. 


TOTAL 

%0F 

CHAPTER 

CONTRIBUTIONS 

GOAL 

GOAL 

1.  Pacific  Northwest 

$  2,428 

$     800 

303 

2.  Chicago 

4,685 

3,500 

134 

3.  Northern  California 

5,473 

4,500 

122 

4.  Northern  New  Jersey 

16,983 

15,000 

113 

5.  Washington 

13,137 

12,000 

109 

6.  Cleveland 

3,260 

3,000 

109 

•Peter  E.  McCormick 

James  F.  Mills 

George  W,  Mitschang 
•Patrick  T.  Moran 

Edward  A.  Obermeyer 

Michacd  F.  Oliver 

Joseph  J.  Osvald 
•Paul  R.  Pearson 
•Thomas  E.  Pease 

James  W.  Pierce 

Wayne  D.  Ponik 

John  M.  Porter 

Harvey  J.  Roscnficld 

Walter  J.  Ruthcnburg.  Ill 

Paul  A.  Schuster 


Rein  Olvet 
Richard  J.  Pankoski 
Chester  J.  Patch,  111 
■Lawrence  A.  Penoncello 
Donald  W.  Petersen,  Jr. 
Paul  F.  Peterson 
Richard  J.  PluscM 
George  M.  Preston 
William  J.  Remillong,  Jr. 
Frank  P.  Robinson 
Donald  M.  Ruef 
Robert  E.  Shaw 
Paul  S.  Shelton 
Peter  J.  Singer 
Peter  K.  Sommer 


32 


Richard  C.  Olson 
Mukundray  N.  Palel 
John  J.  Perrone 
Noel  M.  Potter 
William  F.  Pratt 
George  H.  Rund.  Jr. 
Raymond  C.  Rogers 
John  E.  Rogozcnski,  Jr. 
John  S.  Romano 
Gary  S.  Rosen 
Edward  G.  Scmple 
Sudhir  A.  Shah 
Lester  L.  Small 
•John  E.  Sonne 
Gunnar  J.  Stalemark 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


(John  R.  Sundquist 
I  Alan  H.  Suydam 
■  Robert  P.  Tolokan 
■Elliot  F.  Whipple 

Wayne  T.  Wtrtanen 

1968 
399  MEMBERS 
Contributors 
Robert  A.  Balducci 
Robert  G.  Balmer 
David  C.  Baxter 
van  V.  Beggs 
Donald  P.  Bergstrom 
Gorman  A.  Bergstrom,  Jr. 
tenneth  R.  Blaisdell,  Jr. 
Vayne  E.  Blanchard 
Robert  L.  Bradley 
Gorman  E.  Brunell 
John  M.  Burns 
Sdward  F.  Cannon,  Jr. 
Gerard  E.  Caron 
tobert  J.  CoUette 

razier  P.  Colon 

►aniel  C.  Creamer 
lobert  H.  Deflesco,  Jr. 
John  C.  Demeo 
Hobert  R.  Demers 
vlichael  A.  Dipierro 
Eric  K.  Durling 
Pentti  O.  Elolampi 
Wayne  N.  Fabricius 
lobert  A.  Falciani 

ouglas  G.  Ferry 
lichard  A.  Formato 

idward  L.  Gallo 
•lobert  J.  Gallo 

eorge  F.  Gamache 


Thomas  A.  Gelormino 
Robert  V.  Genereux 
David  J.  Gumbley 

*Edward  M.  Harper 

*Robert  D.  Hickey 

♦John  H.  Holmes 
Robert  J.  Horansky 
Ronald  E.  Jodoin 
Chester  J.  Kasper 
18%  Gary  N.  Keeler 

Walter  A.  Kistler 
Douglas  W.  Klauber 
Charles  D.  Konopka 
John  J.  Kraska,  Jr. 
C.  David  Larson 

♦Michael  R.  Latina 

♦Andrew  A.  Lesick 
Rodney  W.  Logan 
Walter  C.  Lynick 

♦Israel  Mac 

♦John  D.  MacDougall,  Jr. 
Paul  D.  Matukaitis 
John  H.  McCabe 
Peter  F.  McKittrick 
Douglas  A.  Murray 
Robert  A.  Nichols 
Cary  A.  Palulis 
Stephen  W.  Petroff 

♦Roger  L.  Phelps 
Wayne  L.  Pierce 
Andrew  L.  Piretti 
Francis  J.  Posselt,  Jr. 
William  D.  Poulin 
Roger  W.  Pryor 
Raymond  F.  Racine 

♦David  H.  Rice 

♦Peter  A.  Saltz 
Timothy  J.  Schaffernoth 
Gregory  H.  Sovas 


Frankly n  H.  Taylor 
♦Marshall  B.  Taylor 
Firm  C.  Weaver 

1969 

332  MEMBERS 

56  Contributors  1 

♦Lawrence  R.  Areskog 

Normand  L.  Bachand 
♦Robert  C.  Balcer 

Craig  R.  Barrows 

James  F.  Baxendale 

William  A.  Bensch 

Kenneth  B.  Berube 
♦Craig  F.  Bradley 

Brian  D.  Chace 
♦George  G.  Davenport,  III 

Charles  T.  Doe 
♦Ralph  J.  Eschborn,  II 

Arthur  H.  Evans,  III 
♦Warren  F.  Follett 

Alfred  G.  Freeberg 
♦Douglas  J.  George 

Peter  T.  Grosch 

Thomas  M.  Gwazdauskas 
♦James  W.  Haury 

David  G.  Healey 

Steven  A.  Hunter 

Charles  A.  Kalauskas 

Chester  G.  Kasmarski 

Philip  M.  Kazemersky 
♦E.  David  Kuenzler 
♦David  A.  Kuniholm,  Jr. 

Gary  L.  Leventahl 

Craig  L.  Mading 

Alexander  R.  Malcolm 

Robert  W.  Mayer 

Thomas  F.  X.  McAuliffe 

Gordon  J.  Mears 


IMPROVEMENT  LEADERS  - 

PERCENTAGE  PARTICIPATION 

(From  Previous  Year) 

%  IMPROVEMENT 

From  1969-70  KEYMAN 


CHAPTER 

1.  Cincinnati  39% 

2.  Western  New  York  22% 

3.  Cleveland  16% 

4.  Wilmington  9% 

5.  Pacific  Northwest  7% 

6.  Northern  New  Jersey  7% 


Stephen  D.  Donahue,  Jr.,  '63 

0.  Arnold  Hansen,  '25 

Richard  D.  Popp,  '54 

Harold  E.  DeCarli, '52 

William  M.  Lloyd,  11/51 

George  A.  Walker,  '22 

Paul  W.  Bayliss,  '60 


Edward  A.  Mierzejewski 

Douglas  H.  Morash 
♦Wayne  Y.  Morse 
♦Stephen  F.  Nagy 

Matthew  T.  Neclerio 

Navnit  M.  Panchal 
♦John  F.  Poblocki 
♦Daniel  C.  Pond 
♦Ralph  W.  Rollo 

Robert  J.  Rose 

Stephen  Selinger 

Joseph  A.  Senecal 
♦Barry  N.  Shiffrin 
♦John  S.  Simpson 
♦Raymond  B.  Stanley 

Martin  Surabian 

John  J.  Szostek 

John  A.  Taylor 

Lucien  J.  Teig 

Robert  S.  Templin 
*B.  Lee  Tuttle 

Michael  J.  Wanczyk,  Jr. 

Leon  F.  Wendelowski 
♦David  A.  Zlotek 


1970 
340  MEMBERS 
36  Contributors 
Gregory  W.  Backstrom 
Peter  J.  Billington 
Peter  G.  Bladen 
David  R.  Brown 
Ralph  A.  Di  Iorio 
Dwight  S.  Dickerman 
Andrew  M.  Donaldson 
Paul  F.  Dresser 
Duncan  H.  Gillies 


Richard  H.  Goff 
William  J.  Hakkinen 
Donald  W.  Harding 
Thomas  D.  Heinold 
Paul  D.  Himottu 
Robert  C.  Keenan 
Roger  J.  Kern 
Lothar  W.  Kleiner 
James  M.  Lockwood 
Timothy  J.  Mackie 
Alan  H.  Miller 
Peter  R.  Miner 
George  P.  Moore 
Alan  J.  Nizamoff 
John  A.  Pelli 
Paul  A.  Perron 
Leonard  Polizzotto 
John  K.  Redmon 
John  J.  Ring,  Jr. 
Randolph  J.  Sablich 
E.  Richard  Scholz 
John  C.  Sexton 
David  L.  Valcore 
Ross  A.  Willoughby 
Alan  P.  Zabarsky 
Louis  W.  Zitnay 
Frank  J.  Zone,  Jr. 

OTHERS: 

Alumni  Wives  Club 
Anonymous 
Class  of  1916 
Miss   Louise  I.  Doyle 
John  M.  Hogg 

The  Otto  Konigslow  Mfg.  Co. 
Washington  Chapter 
Worcester  County  Alumni 
Association  Chapter 


ANNIVERSARY  CLASS  GIFTS 

Class  of  1921  -  50th  Anniversary  $36,61 1.74 

Class  of  1946  -  25th  Anniversary  $8,914.07 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


33 


34 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


HOMECOMING 


October  16, 1971 


ggKgH&H&ran^^ 


Friday,  October  15 

6 :00  Joint  Gathering  of  WPI  and  Wesleyan  alumni  for  a 

social  hour  and  dinner  at  the  Higgins  Estate  with 
football  coaches  from  both  colleges  as  speakers 

8:00  J.  Geils  —  Concert  ~  Alden  Memorial 

Saturday,  October  16 

9 :30- 1 1 :00       Homecoming  Registration  and  Coffee  Hour  -  -  Baseball 


11:00 

11 :30-l  :30 

2:00 
After  Game 
After  Game 

6:00 

8:00 

8:00 


Field 

Soccer  —  WPI  vs.  Clark 

Tailgate  Picnic  and  Barbeque  ~  Baseball  Field* 

Football  ~  WPI  vs.  Wesleyan 

Happy  Hour  for  alumni  and  friends  ~  Higgins  Estate 

Rope  Pull  ~  Institute  Pond 

Buffet  dinners  at  fraternities 

Al  Kooper  —  Concert  ~  Harrington  Auditorium 

Brass  Choir  --  Concert  —  Higgins  Estate 


|Sf!  In  case  of  rain,  registration,  coffee  hour,  and  barbeque  will  be  held  in  |p| 

|»H  Morgan  Hall.  ||jj| 

|E||  Park  on  the  baseball  field  for  tailgate  picnic.  ||2| 

E|[  *Buy  your  lunch  at  the  barbeque  or  bring  your  own.    An  award  for  the  g^* 

ffjfg  most  colorful  and  hospitable  tailgate  picnic  area  will  be  made.  1f!§ 

***** 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


35 


IN  MEMORY 


WILLIAM  F.  LYNCH 

We  note  with  sadness  the  passing  on 
August  13  of  William  F.  Lynch,  83,  who 
was  Director  of  Instrumental  Music  at  WPI 
for  32  years  prior  to  his  retirement  in  1966.- 
Bill  Lynch  was  a  professional  musician  all 
his  life,  playing  not  only  in  local  bands  but 
also  as  a  touring  musician  for  several  years. 
He  retired  a  year  ago  from  Walberg  &  Auge 
Co.,  a  well  known  Worcester  supplier  to 
musicians. 

Alumni  will  remember  Bill  Lynch  as  the 
jovial  leader  of  the  WPI  band  at  football 
games  and  other  athletic  events. 

THEOPHILUS  BROWN,  01 

Theo  Brown,  inventor  and  descendant 
of  the  first  settler  in  Worcester,  died  in 
Princeton,  Mass.  in  July,  1971. 

He  was  born  April  19,  1879  in  Worces- 
ter. While  attending  Classical  High  School 
there,  he  rowed  on  the  first  U.S.  high  school 
crew.  He  entered  WPI  in  1897  and  grad- 
uated in  1901  with  a  degree  in  mechanical 
engineering. 

After  school,  he  went  to  work  with 
Richardson  Mfg.  Co.  as  an  inventor  of 
agricultural  machinery.  In  1911,  he  worked 
for  John  Deere  Co.,  Moline,  III.  and  retired 
in  1952  having  received  patents  for  158 
inventions.  He  served  on  the  board  of 
directors  of  Deere  Co.  for  thirty  years. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  American 
Society  of  Mechanical  Engineers,  the  Ameri- 
can Society  of  Agricultural  Engineers  and 
had  belonged  to  the  National  Safety 
Council.  While  at  WPI,  he  was  a  member  of 
Phi  Gamma  Delta  fraternity. 

Mr.  Brown  received  numerous  honors. 
Among  them  were:  the  first  Cyrus  H. 
McCormick  Medal  for  outstanding  service  in 
agricultural  engineering;  the  Robert  H.  God- 
dard  Award  for  Outstanding  Professional 
Achievement,  and  Distinguished  Service 
Award  from  the  National  Safety  Council  for 
work  in  farm  safety. 

36 


EVARTS  G.  LOOMIS,  '01 

Evarts  G.  Loomis  died  in  March,  1971  at 
the  age  of  91 . 

Born  in  San  Rafael,  California  December 
13,  1879,  he  attended  Newton  (Mass.)  High 
School.  Entering  WPI  in  1897,  he  was 
graduated  in  1901  with  a  degree  in  mechani- 
cal engineering. 

He  spent  the  majority  of  his  business 
career  as  President  of  Evarts  Loomis  Co., 
Mechanical  Engineers  of  Newark,  New 
Jersey.  He  retired  in  1955.  Following  grad- 
uation from  WPI,  he  worked  for  Francis  H. 
Richards,  New  York  City,  as  a  draftsman 
and  then  as  an  engineer  and  assistant  manag- 
er for  Wildman  Mfg.  Co.,  Norristown,  Pa. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  American 
Society  of  Mechanical  Engineers. 

He  leaves  his  widow,  Amy  C.  (Brown) 
Loomis  and  two  sons,  Evarts  G.,  Jr.  and 
David  G. 

ENOCH  PER  KINS, '02 

Enoch  Perkins,  '02,  died  May  28,  1971, 
in  Westhampton,  Massachusetts.  He  was  94. 

Mr.  Perkins  was  born  in  Bloomfield,  Vt. 
on  Nov.  27,  1876,  and  attended  schools  in 
Northampton.  He  entered  WPI  in  1898. 

He  was  employed  as  assistant  super- 
intendent of  William  A.  Rogers  Ltd.  16 
years,  and  later  was  a  paymaster  at  the  West 
Boylston  Co.  in  Easthampton.  He  was  a 
member  of  Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon  fraternity. 

He  is  survived  by  his  widow,  Elizabeth 
(Gregory)  Perkins;  a  daughter,  Mrs.  Edwin 
Hayes  of  Westhampton;  three  grandchildren 
and  several  nieces  and  nephews. 


EDWARD  H.  GOODNOW,  '05 

Edward  H.  Goodnow,  '05,  passed  away 

February     19,     1971,     in     Santa     Barbara, 

California,  after  a  year's  illness.  He  was  87. 

Born  on  March  12,  1883,  in  Worcester, 

Mr.     Goodnow     attended     Classical      High 


School.  He  began  his  studies  at  WPI  in  1901 
and  graduated  in  1905  with  a  degree  in 
chemistry. 

Mr.  Goodnow  was  employed  as  a 
chemist  at  the  New  Hampshire  State  Experi- 
ment Station,  Durham,  N.H.;  at  Whitall- 
Tatus  Glass  Co.,  Milville,  N.J.;  and  the 
Bureau  of  Internal  Revenue,  Washington, 
D.C.;  and  at  the  Bureau  of  Chemistry, 
Washington,  D.C.  He  worked  as  chief  of  the 
St.  Paul  and  Minneapolis  stations  of  the 
Food  and  Drug  Administration  and  for 
thirteen  years  was  assistant  chief  of  the 
Central  Inspection  District  for  the  Food  and 
Drug  Administration,  Chicago,  III. 

ELBERT  C.  ALDRICH,  '06 

Elbert  C.  Aldrich,  89,  a  native  and 
benefactor  of  Granby,  Mass.,  died  there  July 
14,1971. 

He  attended  Granby  schools  and  grad- 
uated from  WPI  with  the  class  of  1906  with 
a  degree  in  civil  engineering. 

He  served  as  a  city  engineer  in  Auburn, 
N.Y.,  before  returning  to  Granby  where  in 
1917  he  dammed  up  Lake  Aldrich  and  built 
a  generating  station  which  supplied  power 
to  a  large  portion  of  Granby.  He  operated  a 
bathing  beach  and  roller  rink  in  Granby,  as 
well  as  owning  the  Winter  Palace  in 
Holyoke.  The  town  of  Granby  received  the 
lake  and  surrounding  lands  from  him  several 
years  ago. 

He  leaves  three  nephews  and  a  niece. 

LOUIS  H.  TROTT,  '08 
Louis  H.  Trott  died  April  20,  1971,  in 
Cincinnati,  Ohio  at  the  age  of  85. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester  January  12, 
1886,  and  went  to  Worcester  English  High. 
He  was  a  WPI  student  from  1904  to  1908, 
graduating  with  a  degree  in  chemistry. 

He  worked  five  years  for  the  Murphy 
Varnish  Co.,  Newark,  N.J.,  first  as  a  chemist 
and  later  as  a  chief  chemist.  He  was  a 
superintendent  at   McDougall   Varnish   Co., 

THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Montreal,  Canada  and  also  at  the  C.  H. 
Parker  Co.,  Valparaiso,  Indiana.  Beginning 
in  1923,  Mr.  Trott  was  employed  by  the 
New  Jersey  Zinc  Co.,  and  remained  with 
that  company  for  33  years. 

Mr.  Trott  was  a  member  of  Theta  Chi 
fraternity,  the  American  Chemical  Society 
and  the  American  Society  for  Testing  Mate- 
rials. 

WALTER  I.  BARROWS,  '09 

Walter  I.  Barrows  passed  away  January 
24,  1971,  at  the  age  of  83. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester  March  25, 
1887,  and  attended  South  High  School.  He 
began  his  studies  at  WPI  in  1905  and 
graduated  in  1909  with  a  degree  in  civil 
engineering. 

Mr.  Barrows  held  a  variety  of  positions 
with  the  I.W.  Jones  and  Milton  Co.,  N.H., 
working  up  to  chief  engineer.  He  worked  1 1 
years  with  the  Management  Engineering  and 
Development  Company,  Dayton,  Ohio.  He 
was  the  owner  of  W.I.  Barrows  &  Assoc, 
Engineers,  in  Dayton,  Ohio  and  was  a 
member  of  the  American  Society  of  Civil 
Engineers,  the  American  Society  of  Mechan- 
ical Engineers,  and  Sigma  Xi. 

EDMUND  M.  FLAHERTY,  '11 

Edmund  M.  Flaherty,  82,  who  was  at 
one  time  head  of  Marshall  Plan  efforts  to 
revitalize  Europe's  chemical  industry,  died 
August  2,  1971  in  Bay  Shore,  N.Y. 

He  was  a  native  of  Worcester,  born  Dec. 
10,  1888,  and  attended  Classical  High 
School  in  that  city.  A  chemistry  major,  he 
was  a  1911  graduate  of  WPI  and  was 
awarded  an  honorary  doctorate  degree  from 
the  College  in  1951. 

Following  graduation  from  WPI,  he 
began  work  for  E.I.  duPont  deNemours  & 
Co.,  Inc.,  remaining  with  them  for  35  years 
in  executive  positions  in  the  research,  manu- 
facture and  sale  of  automotive  and  industri- 
al finishes  and  coated  fabrics.  He  retired 
from  duPont  in  1946  to  serve  as  head  of  the 
chemical  division  for  the  Marshall  Plan.  He 
later  became  assistant  chief  of  the  industrial 
division  of  the  Economic  Cooperation  Ad- 
ministration. 

He  was  one  of  a  small  group  of  duPont 
chemists  credited  with  inventing  Duco  nitro- 
cellulose lacquer  and  was  issued  the  patent 
for  duPont  in  1927.  The  invention  of  the 
lacquer  allowed  painting  and  polishing  of 
automobiles  within  hours  instead  of  weeks, 
therefore  removing  one  of  the  last  barriers 
to  mass  production  of  cars. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  American 
Chemical  Society  and  Theta  Chi  fraternity. 
He  leaves  his  widow,  Anne  D.  Flaherty; 
a  son,  John  E.  of  Wilmington,  Del.;  two 
daughters,  Mrs.  Joseph  L.  Savage  of  Islip, 
N.Y.,  with  whom  he  was  visiting  when 
stricken  with  a  heart  attack,  and  Mrs. 
William  R.  Leathers  III  of  San  Francisco;  15 
grandchildren  and  six  great  grandchildren. 

THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


FRANK  H.  PLAISTED,  '12 

Mr.  Frank  H.  Plaisted  81,  died  August 
16,  1970.  He  was  born  August  15,  1890  in 
Worcester  and  was  graduated  from  Worces- 
ter South  High  School  in  1908,  entering 
WPI  that  year.  A  civil  engineering  major,  he 
graduated  in  1912. 

At  the  time  of  his  retirement  in  1958, 
he  was  the  University  of  New  Hampshire 
associate  director  of  extension  and  associate 
professor  of  industrial  management,  a  posi- 
tion he  had  held  for  eight  years.  Following 
graduation  from  WPI,  he  worked  ten  years 
as  an  office  engineer  for  C.C.C.  &  St.  Louis 
Railroad.  He  later  was  employed  as  a  presi- 
dent manager  of  the  Austin  Co.,  Portland, 
Ore.,  remaining  with  that  company  for 
thirteen  years.  Previous  to  his  position  at 
the  University  of  New  Hampshire,  he 
worked  for  the  Multnomah  Relief  Commis- 
sion as  managing  director;  for  the  Iron 
Fireman  Corp.  as  a  manager  for  Greater 
New  York,  for  the  American  Type  Founders 
Inc.  as  a  manager  and  director  (radar)  and  as 
a  consultant  to  the  Allen  Rogers  Corp., 
Laconia,  N.H. 

While  at  WPI  he  was  a  member  of  Theta 
Chi  fraternity  and  was  a  charter  member  of 
Skull.  He  belonged  to  the  Rotary  Inter- 
national and  was  on  the  YMCA  Board  of 
Directors.  He  was  also  director  of  the 
Community  Chest  and  Town  Moderator  in 
Brooklyn,  New  York. 

ALBERT  L.BROWN, '13 

Albert  L.  Brown  died  March  26,  1970  in 
Eustis,  Florida.  He  was  79. 

He  was  born  in  Brockton,  Mass.  Septem- 
ber 2,  1890,  and  attended  high  school  there. 
He  entered  WPI  in  1909  and  was  graduated 
in  1913  with  a  degree  in  chemistry. 

Mr.  Brown  worked  for  28  years  in  the 
sales  and  pollution-control  areas  of  the  coal 
industry,  joining  Consolidation  Coal  Co., 
Appalachian  Coals,  Inc.,  and  Bituminous 
Coal  Operators'  for  Smoke  Abatement.  Mr. 
Brown  was  also  employed  by  Worcester  Gas 
Light  Co.,  remaining  with  them  for  eight 
years.  He  retired  in  1953. 

He  was  a  member  of  Skull,  Sigma  Xi, 
and  Phi  Sigma  Kappa  fraternity.  He  also 
belonged  to  the  American  Chemical  Society, 
the  American  Gas  Association  and  the 
Masons. 

JULIAN  B.  GOUSE, '14 

Julian  B.  Gouse,  former  president  of  the 
Massachusetts  Trade  Shops  Schools  of 
Everett  and  Boston,  passed  away  August  5, 
1971  in  Newton,  Mass.  He  was  51 . 

A  native  of  Boston,  he  attended  Boston 
English  High  School  before  entering  WPI  in 
1940.  He  was  graduated  four  years  later 
with  a  degree  in  mechanical  engineering. 

He  was  the  president  of  Ford  Hill  Realty 
Co.  of  Newton,  and  had  previously  been 
president  and  treasurer  of  the  Master  Tool 


and  Electronics  Corp.,  and  treasurer  of 
Master  Electronics,  both  of  Boston. 

He  was  a  member  of  Temple  Israel  of 
Boston,  the  National  Association  of  Trade 
Technical  Schools;  and  the  Germania  Lodge, 
A.F.  &  A.M.,  the  32  degree  of  the  Scottish 
Rite,  and  was  also  a  member  of  the  Aleppo 
Temple,  all  of  Boston.  He  was  also  a  life 
member  of  Brandeis  University  and  joined 
the  American  Society  of  Mechanical  Engi- 
neers. His  fraternity  was  Alpha  Epsilon  Pi. 

He  served  as  an  engineering  officer  on  a 
fire  support  ship  during  World  War  II. 

He  leaves  his  widow,  Marci  Tuck  Gouse; 
two  sons,  Richard  and  Andrew,  of  Newton, 
and  a  sister,  Mrs.  Lillian  Waldfogel  of 
Swampscott. 

ERNEST  R.  HEDSTROM,  '14 

Ernest  R.  Hedstrom  died  in  Worcester 
February  25,  1 971 ,  at  the  age  of  70. 

Born  in  Worcester  June  10,  1891,  he 
attended  Worcester  English  High  and  en- 
tered WPI  in  1909.  He  graduated  in  1914 
with  a  degree  in  mechanical  engineering. 

He  worked  35  years  as  an  engineer  with 
Morgan  Construction  Co.,  retiring  in  1963. 
He  had  worked  earlier  for  Builders  Iron 
Foundry,  Providence,  R.I.,  Norton  Co.  and 
Riley  Stoker  Corp.,  both  of  Worcester.  He 
served  as  a  second  lieutenant  in  the  U.S. 
Army  during  World  War  I. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  Masons,  Quin- 
sigamond  Post  of  the  American  Legion,  St. 
John's  Episcopal  Church,  Aletheia  Grotto, 
and  North  Worcester  Aid  Society.  He  also 
belonged  to  Tau  Beta  Pi,  Sigma  Xi,  and  the 
American  Society  of  Mechanical  Engineers. 

GEORGE  A.  BARNARD,  II,  '15 

George  A.  Barnard,  a  partner  of 
Barnard,  Sumner  &  Putnam  Co.  in  Worces- 
ter, passed  away  in  Honolulu,  Hawaii,  April 
3,  1971.  He  was  77. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  was  born  May 
16,  1893,  and  attended  Worcester  English 
High  School.  In  1911  he  was  graduated 
from  high  school  and  entered  WPI. 

He  was  a  division  sales  manager  and 
general  purchasing  agent  for  the  Graton  & 
Knight  Co.,  where  he  worked  for  33  years. 

He  leaves  his  widow,  Grace;  a  son, 
George  A.  Ill,  and  brothers  Mason,  John 
and  Ruggles. 

CARROLL  MARTIN  LAWTON/15 

Carroll  M.  Lawton,  79,  passed  away 
June  10,1971. 

Born  Jan.  2,  1892  in  Brooklyn,  Conn., 
he  attended  Killingly  High  School,  Daniel- 
son,  Conn.,  before  entering  WPI  in  1911 . 

He  worked  more  than  forty  years  in  the 
Abrasive  &  Diamond  Wheel  Dept.,  Man- 
hattan Rubber  Division,  Raynestos- 
Manhattan  Inc.,  Passaic,  N.J.  Earlier,  he  had 
worked  for  Norton  Co.  in  Worcester  and 
N.Y.C.    and    the    Charter    Oak    Motor   Car 


37 


Corp.  of  Hartford,  Conn.  He  had  also  served 
in  the  U.S.  Army  Medical  Corps  and  was  a 
registered  professional  engineer  in  Conn. 

He  belonged  to  the  Society  of  Carbide 
Engineers,  the  Hartford  Engineers  Club,  the 
Masons,  and  was  a  charter  member  of  the 
Charter  Oak  Color  Slide  Association. 

ULRIC  J.  LEBOURVEAU,  '15 

Ulric  J.  Lebourveau  passed  away  April 
26,  1971  in  Somerville,  New  Jersey  after  a 
brief  illness.  He  was  78. 

A  native  of  Barre,  Vt.,  he  was  born  May 
23,  1892  and  attended  Spaulding  High 
School  in  Barre. 

Having  worked  7  years  for  Atlas  Powder 
Co.,  he  was  later  the  owner  of  the  Somer- 
ville  Hardware  Store.  He  sold  the  store  in 

1958  after  35  years  of  business. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  Valley  of 
Trenton,  Scottish  Rites  Masons;  the  First 
United  Methodist  Church;  the  Solomon 
Lodge,  F.  &  A.M.,  Sigma  Xi  and  Eta  Kappa 
Nu. 

Surviving  are  two  sons,  John  W.  of 
Needham,  Mass.  (WPI  '44)  and  Willis  A.  of 
Cincinnati,  Ohio;  one  daughter,  Mrs.  Ruth 
L.  Bolton  of  Williamstown,  Mass.  and  10 
grandchildren. 

JOHN  D.  MaclVER,'16 

John  D.  Maclver  died  May  17,  1971  in 
Northampton,  Mass.  He  was  80. 

Born  in  Quebec,  Canada,  February  12, 
1891,  he  was  graduated  from  Lowell  High 
School.  While  at  WPI  he  was  a  civil  engineer- 
ing major,  graduating  from  the  college  in 
1916. 

He  retired  in  1961  after  thirty  years  as 
an  industrial  safety  inspector  for  the  state  of 
Massachusetts.  He  served  in  the  U.S.  Army 
in  World  War  I  in  France  in  the  medical 
corps. 

He  belonged  to  Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon 
fraternity  and  Skull. 

Mr.  Maclver  is  survived  by  his  wife;  a 
daughter,  Mrs.  James  C.  Crabree  of  Delmar, 
N.Y.  and  two  grandchildren. 

DANA  F.  HIGGINS,  '17 

Dana  F.  Higgins,  76,  retired  funeral 
director  and  furniture  dealer,  died  March 
11,  1971  in  Athol,  Mass.,  after  a  short 
illness. 

Born  January  30,  1895  in  Boylston,  he 
attended  Athol  High  School  before  entering 
WPI.  He  was  graduated  from  the  college  in 
1917  with  a  degree  in  electrical  engineering. 

After  graduation  he  worked  briefly  for 
Westinghouse,   in    Pittsburgh.    He  retired  in 

1959  after  the  J.  F.  Higgins  Co.  funeral 
home,  which  he  operated  with  his  brother, 
was  sold  to  Donald  H.  Higgins  and  Charles 
W.  Higgins. 

He  was  a  member  of  Theta  Chi  fraterni 
ty  and  Tau  Beta  Pi,  and  was  a  Mason. 


Besides  his  widow  he  leaves  a  son,  Dana 
F.,  Jr.  of  Rome,  N.Y.;  two  daughters,  Mrs. 
Diane  Anderson,  wife  of  Walter  R. 
Anderson,  WPI  Class  of  1951,  of  York 
Beach,  Maine,  and  Mrs.  Deborah  Hergen- 
rother  of  Kwajalein  Island,  Marshall  Islands; 
his  brother,  H.  Howard  Higgins  of  Athol; 
and  nine  grandchildren. 

james  a.  Mcdonald,  'is 

It  has  been  reported  to  us  that  James  A. 
McDonald  died  in  July,  1970  in  Cambridge 
at  the  age  of  75.  He  was  born  in  Worcester 
May  6,  1895  and  was  graduated  from 
Holyoke  (Mass.)  High  School  in  1914.  He 
entered  WPI  that  same  year,  later  to  major 
in  electrical  engineering. 

He  was  employed  for  eight  years  by  the 
Flintkote  Co.  He  served  as  an  Ensign  in  the 
U.S.  Navy  and  also  attended  Stevens  In- 
stitute of  Technology. 

A  member  of  Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon 
fraternity  while  at  WPI,  he  also  belonged  to 
the  American  Legion. 

FREDERIC  W.  GUERIN,  '21 

Frederic  W.  Guerin,  71,  former  Worces- 
ter district  engineer  for  the  state  Depart- 
ment of  Public  Works,  died  April  3,  1971  in 
Worcester. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  was  a  graduate  of 
Classical  High  School  in  Worcester. 

He  began  his  studies  at  WPI  in  1917, 
graduating  in  1921  with  a  civil  engineering 
degree. 

He  worked  45  years  for  the  Massachu- 
setts Department  of  Public  Works,  holding 
various  engineering  positions.  He  served  as 
chief  district  engineer  from  the  1950's  until 
his  retirement  in  December,  1969. 

He  was  considered  in  Nov.  of  1963  by 
Governor  Peabody  for  appointment  to  the 
Governor's  Public  Works  Commission.  Mr. 
Guerin  was  a  member  of  the  National 
Engineers  Association  and  Lambda  Chi 
Alpha  fraternity. 

He  is  survived  by  his  widow,  Katherine 
W.  (Sullivan)  Guerin;  a  sister,  Mrs.  Frank 
Murphy  of  Shrewsbury  and  several  nephews. 

RICHARD  S.  LEONARD,  '21 

Richard  S.  Leonard,  75,  a  retired  electri- 
cal engineer,  died  July  22,  1971 . 

Born  June  7,  1896  in  Bellows  Falls,  Vt., 
he  attended  Bellows  Falls  High  School  and 
entered  WPI  in  1915.  He  was  an  electrical 
engineering  graduate  of  the  class  of  1921 
and  was  a  member  of  Theta  Chi  fraternity. 

He  worked  for  Bell  Telephone  Laborato- 
ries for  40  years,  retiring  in  1961 .  A  veteran 
of  World  War  I,  he  served  with  the  Signal 
Corps  in  France. 

Active  in  New  Jersey  boy  scouting,  he 
had  also  been  engaged  in  civil  defense  work 
and  was  a  member  of  King  Solomon  Temple 
Lodge  of  Masons. 


He  leaves  his  widow,  Lucretia  Meigs 
Leonard;  a  son,  Ralph  S.,  of  Berkeley 
Heights,  N.J.;  a  brother,  Col.  (Army  Ret.) 
Lawrence  C,  of  Williamsburg,  Va.;  three 
grandchildren,  and  a  nephew. 


GRANVILLE  R.  WHITCOMB,  '21 

Granville  R.  Whitcomb,  a  forty-year 
employee  of  the  New  York  Telephone  Co. 
of  Brooklyn,  has  died.  Mr.  Whitcomb  passed 
away  January  23,  1971  at  the  age  of  71. 
Born  in  Fitchburg  May  26,  1899,  he  attend- 
ed Worcester  Commerce  High  School  and 
entered  WPI  in  1917. 

He  was  a  member  of  Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon  fraternity. 


GEORGE  V.  UPTON,  JR.,  '22 

George  V.  Upton,  Jr.,  70,  a  former 
duPont  official,  died  suddenly  on  February 
6,  1971  in  Leominster,  Mass. 

He  was  born  Nov.  10,  1900  in  Fitch- 
burg, Mass.  and  attended  Fitchburg  High 
School,  graduating  there  in  1918.  A  me- 
chanical engineering  major,  he  entered  WPI 
in  1918  and  was  graduated  in  1922. 

Mr.  Upton  was  a  retired  personnel  and 
purchasing  agent  for  the  E.I.  duPont  de 
Nemours  &  Co.,  Inc.  of  Leominster.  He  had 
been  retired  since  1965.  He  had  earlier  been 
president  of  the  Fitchburg  Horn  Goods  Co., 
a  position  he  had  held  for  eleven  years. 

He  is  survived  by  his  widow,  Rachel 
Ware  Upton  of  Lunenburg,  Mass.,  a  daugh- 
ter, Miss  Judith  Upton  of  West  Hartford, 
Conn.,  a  son,  George  V.,  Ill  of  Wenham;  a 
brother,  Joseph  M.  of  Downingtown,  Pa.; 
two  sisters,  Miss  Dorothy  Upton  and  Mrs. 
Stowers  Curry,  both  of  Washington,  D.C., 
and  a  grandson. 


CARLS.  ROYS, '23 

Dr.  Carl  S.  Roys,  72,  retired  University 
of  Massachusetts  electrical  engineering  pro- 
fessor emeritus,  died  March  5,  1971,  in  his 
home  in  Leverett,  Mass. 

He  was  born  July  30,  1898  in  Shel- 
burne,  Mass.  and  attended  Greenfield 
(Mass.)  High  School.  He  entered  WPI  in 
1918,  and,  after  graduation  in  1923  with  a 
degree  in  electrical  engineering,  went  on  to 
do  graduate  work  at  Union  College  in 
Schenectady,  N.Y.,  and  at  the  University  of 
Wisconsin,  later  receiving  his  PhD  from 
Purdue  University. 

He  taught  44  years  at  Union  College 
Purdue  University,  Illinois  Institute  of  Tech 
nology,  Syracuse  University,  and  the  Univer 
sity  of  Massachusetts.  He  also  was  a  con 
sultant  for  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories 
N.H.,  General  Electric  Co.  and  Continental 
Electric  Co. 


38 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


He  was  a  former  Leverett  Town  modera- 
tor, selectman,  member  of  the  School  Com- 
mittee, and  a  constable.  He  was  a  member 
of  Eta  Kappa  Nu  as  well  as  Tau  Beta  Pi  and 
Sigma  Xi. 

He  leaves  his  widow,  Ursula  L. 
(Purinton)  Roys,  three  daughters,  Mrs.  Earl 
Viliton  of  North  Reading  (Mass.),  Mrs. 
Kenneth  Woodard  of  Millis  (Mass.),  and  Mrs. 
Thomas  Morrissey  of  Sandwich;  three  sons, 
Arthur  of  Brandon,  Fla.,  Robert  of  Juneau, 
Alaska,  and  Charles  of  Wilbraham,  and  a 
sister,  Mrs.  Richard  Smith  of  Hartford, 
Conn.,  and  a  brother,  John  of  Boca  Raton, 
Fla.,  and  21  grandchildren. 

JOHN  H.  SCHWARZ,  '26 

John  H.  Schwarz,  a  veteran  of  two 
world  wars,  died  April  13,  1971  at  the  age 
of  71. 

Born  Sept.  26,  1899  in  Niagara  Falls, 
N.Y.,  he  was  graduated  from  high  school 
there  before  entering  WPI  in  1922,  where  he 
majored  in  civil  engineering.  He  also  attend- 
ed Pratt  Institute. 

Among  the  service  ribbons  he  had  re- 
ceived were  the  Victory  medal  (World  War 
I),  American  Defense,  Philippine  Liberation 
and  the  Victory  medal  (World  War  II).  His 
work  experience  included  positions  with 
H.S.  Ferguson,  M.W.  Kellogg  Co.,  Linde  Air 
Products  Co.,  Mead  Corp.,  and  Shredded 
Wheat  Co. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  American 
Legion,  the  Knights  of  Columbus,  Rotary 
Club,  Retired  Officers  Association  and 
Theta  Chi  fraternity. 


JAMES  A.  THOMPSON,  JR.,  '26 

James  A.  Thompson,  owner  and  manag- 
er of  Leach,  Thompson  and  Adams,  florists, 
died  February  15,  1971  in  Providence,  R.I. 
He  was  66. 

A  native  of  Worcester,  he  was  born 
October  30,  1904  and  attended  Holden 
(Mass.)  High  School.  He  entered  WPI  in 
1922,  majoring  in  electrical  engineering. 

Besides  being  proprietor  of  the  Florist 
Co.,  Mr.  Thompson  had  worked  previously 
for  W.C.  Bliss  as  a  surveyor  and  for  Worces- 
ter Consolidated  St.  Railroad  as  an  assistant 
engineer. 

He  served  on  the  Board  of  Selectmen  in 
Seekonk,  Mass.,  having  acted  as  chairman  of 
the  board.  He  was  also  chairman  of  the 
Board  of  Water  Commissioners,  on  which  he 
was  a  member  for  many  years.  A  member  of 
the  Seekonk  Chamber  of  Commerce,  he  also 
belonged  to  the  New  York  and  Ohio  Florists 
Associations.  He  was  president  and  a  direc- 
tor of  Farmers  Production  Credit  of 
Taunton,  Mass. 

WILLIAM  J.  BREEN,  JR.,  '27 
William  J.  Breen,  who  was  cited  in  the 
37th  edition  of  Who's  Who  in  America,  died 

HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


April  30,  1971  in  Ft.  Lauderdale,  Fla.  He 
was  66. 

Born  in  Boston,  September  23,  1904,  he 
attended  Winchester  High  School  and  en- 
tered WPI  in  1923.  He  was  a  civil  engi- 
neering major. 

He  was  the  president  of  William  J. 
Breen,  Inc.,  Ft.  Lauderdale,  Fla.,  yacht 
brokers.  He  held  various  executive  account 
positions  with  Sherman  &  Marguette,  Inc., 
N.Y.C.,  McCann-Erickson,  Inc.,  N.Y.C.  and 
Lennen  &  Newell,  Inc.,  culminating  in  his 
being  named  senior  vice  president  and  man- 
agement account  supervisor  for  Lennen  & 
Newell.  He  had  been  employed  by  N.  W. 
Ayer  &  Son,  Inc.,  of  Phila.,  in  1929  and 
later  by  Young  &  Rubican,  Inc.,  N.Y.C.  He 
was  also  a  partner  in  Breen-Fisher  &  Assocs. 

Mr.  Breen  was  a  member  and  ex-presi- 
dent of  the  Southern  Yacht  Brokers  Associ- 
ation. He  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappa. 


HARRY  J.  KATHMAN,  '27 

Word  has  been  received  of  the  death  of 
Harry  J.  Kathman  at  the  age  of  67. 

A  native  of  Brookline,  Mass.,  he  attend- 
ed Commerce  High  School  in  Worcester 
before  entering  WPI.  He  received  his  degree 
in  civil  engineering  in  1927. 

His  most  recent  employment  was  at 
United  Engineering  Company  of  Phila- 
delphia as  a  structural  designer.  Other  work 
included  previous  positions  with  General 
Industries,  Boiler  Engineering  and  Supply, 
Bethleham  Steel  Co.  and  Phoenix  Bridge  Co. 
Mr.  Kathman  was  a  registered  professional 
engineer  in  Pennsylvania. 

While  in  attendance  at  WPI,  Mr. 
Kathman  became  vice-president  and  treasur- 
er of  the  student  chapter  of  the  American 
Society  of  Civil  Engineers. 

He  leaves  his  widow,  Gertrude  Campbell 
Webb  Kathman  and  two  children,  Winifred 
Anne  Thompson  and  John  C.  Kathman,  all 
of  Phoenixville,  Pa.;  a  stepson,  Paul  G.  Webb 
of  Pottstown,  Pa.;  five  grandchildren  and  a 
brother,  John  F.  Kathman  of  Worcester. 


CLIFFORD  G.  ENGSTROM,  '28 

Clifford  G.  Engstrom,  an  engineer  who 
worked  35  years  for  the  firm  of  Buck  & 
Buck  of  Hartford,  Conn.,  passed  away 
March  10,  1971  in  West  Hartford. 

A  life-long  resident  of  the  Hartford  area, 
he  attended  Hartford  High  School,  grad- 
uating in  1924  and  entering  WPI  that  year. 
He  was  graduated  from  WPI  in  1929  with  a 
degree  in  civil  engineering. 

Prior  to  his  employment  with  Buck  & 
Buck,  Mr.  Engstrom  worked  for  the  Metro- 
politan District,  Hartford  as  an  inspector 
and  draftsman;  for  the  Works  Progress  Ad- 
ministration; and  for  the  Springfield  Water 
Works,  Springfield,  Mass.  as  a  transitman 
and  inspector. 


He  was  a  member  of  the  American 
Society  of  Civil  Engineers  and  the  Connect- 
icut Society  of  Civil  Engineers.  He  had 
belonged  to  Lambda  Chi  Alpha  fraternity. 

LESTER  BRISK, '38 

Lester  Brisk,  55,  died  May  15,  1971  in 
Springfield,  Mass.  He  was  the  owner  of  the 
Feiner  Chemical  Co.  for  17  years. 

Born  Feb.  23,  1915  in  Springfield, 
Mass.,  he  attended  Classical  High  School  in 
Springfield  before  entering  WPI  in  1934. 

Besides  his  mother,  who  resides  in 
Springfield,  he  leaves  a  brother,  Seymour 
H.,  of  Longmeadow,  Mass. 


GEORGE  A.  LATINEN,  '44 

George  A.  Latinen,  49,  died  April  9, 
1971  in  Clearwater,  Fla. 

Born  in  Maynard,  Mass.,  March  18, 
1922,  he  was  well-known  in  engineering 
circles  for  having  developed  several  proc- 
esses for  work  with  polymers.  He  graduated 
from  Clinton  (Mass.)  High  School  in  1940 
and  received  his  bachelor  of  science  degree 
in  chemical  engineering  from  WPI  four  years 
later.  He  pursued  his  formal  education  at 
WPI,  receiving  a  master  of  science  degree 
from  the  college  in  1948.  He  obtained  a 
PhD  degree  from  Princeton  in  1951 . 

He  served  as  an  electronics  officer  in  the 
Navy  from  1944  to  1946,  joining  the 
research  department  of  the  Plastics  Division 
of  Monsanto  Co.  in  1952.  In  1959  he 
worked  his  way  up  to  become  a  research 
specialist,  and  in  1965  held  the  position  of 
technologist,  working  in  the  Technologist 
program,  later  renamed  the  Engineering 
Fellow  program. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  American 
Institute  of  Chemical  Engineers  and  Sigma 
Xi. 

He  leaves  his  widow,  Mrs.  Mary  Latinen. 


ELMER  B.  SEVERS,  JR.,  '45 

It  was  reported  to  us  that  Elmer  B. 
Severs,  Jr.  passed  away  in  the  fall  of  1970  at 
the  age  of  46. 

Born  in  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  July  31 ,  1924, 
he  graduated  from  Lower  Merion  High 
School  in  1943.  He  received  his  bachelor  of 
science  degree  from  WPI  in  1944  and  his 
master  of  science  degree  from  Purdue  in 
1948,  both  degrees  in  mechanical  engineer- 
ing. 

Beginning  in  1948,  he  held  a  variety  of 
positions  with  Babcock  &  Wilcox  Co., 
Barberton,  Ohio,  working  up  to  manager  of 
production  control.  He  was  also  a  projects 
manager  for  Forty-eight  Insulations  Inc. 
Prior  to  joing  Babcock  &  Wilcox,  he  had 
served  three  years  in  the  U.S.  Navy  as  a 
chief  engineering  officer. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  Masons,  the 
Elks,    the    Veterans    of    Foreign    Wars,    the 


39 


American  Legion  and  the  Young  Repub- 
licans. Also  he  belonged  to  the  American 
Society  of  Mechanical  Engineers  and  the 
Naval  Institute. 


JAMES  M.  MULLARKEY,  '48 

James  M.  Mullarkey,  assistant  vice- 
president  of  Chas.  T.  Main,  Inc.,  Consulting 
Engineers  of  Boston,  died  June  7,  1971  in 
Boston  at  the  age  of  45. 

Born  in  Boston,  March  9,  1926,  he 
attended  Quincy  High  School  before  enter- 
ing WPI.  Graduating  with  a  bachelor  of 
science  degree  from  WPI  in  1948,  the 
College  later  awarded  him  the  professional 
degree  of  civil  engineering.  He  was  a  mem- 
ber of  Tau  Beta  Pi. 

Prior  to  joining  Chas.  T.  Main,  Inc.,  he 
was  employed  by  Ebasco  Services  Inc.  of 
New  York  as  a  principal  civil  engineer.  A 
well-known  hydro-electric  engineer,  he  had 
participated  in  the  design  of  power  projects 
in  Turkey,  Brazil,  Colombia,  and  Ecuador 
and  in  the  U.S.  He  was  a  registered  profes- 
sional engineer  in  Mass.,  N.Y.,  and  several 
other  states. 


Mr.  Mullarkey  was  a  fellow  of  the 
American  Society  of  Civil  Engineers,  serving 
that  association  as  chairman  of  the  Power 
Division  publications  committee  and  as  sec- 
retary of  the  Power  Division's  executive 
committee.  He  also  belonged  to  the  Boston 
Society  of  Civil  Engineers  and  the  United 
States  Committee  on  Large  Dams,  as  chair- 
man of  the  Technical  Activities  Committee. 

He  leaves  his  wife,  Mary  L.  Collins 
Mullarkey;  two  sons,  James  C.  and  Peter  W.; 
a  daughter,  Katherine  M.;a  brother,  William 
E.  of  Geneva,  N.Y.,  and  two  sisters,  Mrs. 
Claire  Barry  of  Quincy,  Mass.  and  Mrs. 
Helen  Reynolds  of  Holbrook,  Mass. 

JOHN  GOWEN,  '64 

John  Gowen  died  May  27,  1971  at  the 
age  of  28. 

A  native  of  Washington,  D.C.,  he  at- 
tended Natick  (Mass.)  High  School  prior  to 
entering  WPI  in  1960.  He  was  graduated 
from  WPI  Sep.  8,  1964  with  a  degree  in 
mechanical  engineering  and  did  graduate 
work  at  the  University  of  Oregon.  He  was  a 
member  of  Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon  fraternity 
while  at  WPI. 


Mr.  Gowen  had  been  hired  by  the 
Research  Division  of  the  United  Shoe  Ma- 
chinery Corp.,  Beverly,  Mass.,  as  a  program- 
mer in  their  engineering  department. 

He  is  survived  by  his  parents,  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  John  K.  Gowen  III,  and  a  sister,  Miss 
Mary  Anne  Gowen  of  South  Natick,  Mass. 
His  maternal  grandparents  are  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
William  J.  Thatcher  of  Weymouth  and  his. 
paternal  grandmother  is  Mrs.  John  K. 
Gowen  II  of  Washington,  D.C. 


EDWARD  P.  FALCIONE,  '71 

Edward  P.  Falcione,  21  years  old,  died 
February  12,  1971  after  his  car  skidded  off 
Route  128  near  Route  1  in  Dedham,  Mass. 
and  burst  into  flames. 

Born  June  24,  1949,  he  was  a  native  of 
Medford,  Mass.  and  attended  Milton  High 
School  before  entering  WPI  in  June  of  1967. 
He  was  majoring  in  mechanical  engineering. 

He  leaves  his  parents,  Edward  J.  and 
Camille  Salvatore  Falcione  and  a  sister, 
Phyllis. 


40 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


YOUR  CLASS  AND  OTHERS 


1903 

HENRY  JAMES  POTTER  reports  that 
he  has  completed  21  years  of  retirement  and 
that  on  the  22nd  of  January  he  celebrated 
his  90th  birthday.  He  is  a  resident  of 
Mendham,  New  Jersey,  and  a  former  em- 
ployee of  the  Hartford  Accident  &  Indem- 
nity Company. 

1913 

North  Andover,  Mass.  is  the  location  of 
GEORGE  R.  BARKER,  where  he  is  owner 
and  operator  of  a  farm. 

1914 

WINTHROP  B.  BROWN  was  chosen  a 
Layman  of  the  Year  in  1970  by  the  Presby- 
tery of  South  Florida,  First  United  Presby- 
terian Church  in  the  U.S.A.  He  has  received 
the  more  recent  honor  of  being  elected 
moderator  of  the  Presbytery  of  South 
Florida  for  1971.  He  retired  in  1961  from 
the  Pittsburgh  Steel  Foundry,  where  he  was 
Corporate  secretary.  ..  HENRY  C. 

WHITLOCK  has  retired  as  city  engineer  of 
Waterbury,  Conn.,  where  he  has  worked  for 
55  years.  Whitlock,  at  78,  has  had  such  firm 
knowledge  and  control  over  Waterbury's 
public  works  that  Mayor  Victor  Mambruno 
said,  in  tribute,  "I  hope  he  is  leaving  a  map 
so  that  we  will  know  after  he  is  gone  where 
every  pipe  and  joint  is  in  the  city  since  he  is 
the  only  one  who  has  that  knowledge." 

1915 

WINFIELD  S.  JEWELL  is  very  active  in 
his  "retirement"  and  is  employed  as  a  Real 
Estate  agent  by  Maxon  Brothers,  Inc.,  of 
Grosse  Pointe,  Michigan,  where  he  is  also  a 
resident. 

1916 

ARTHUR  K.  INGRAHAM  has  retired 
for  the  second  time,  this  time  retiring  as  an 
electrical  and  hydraulic  engineering  director 
with  the  Public  Works  Department  of  the 
U.S.  Navy  at  Treasure  Island,  California.  He 
had  previously  served  from  1923  until  1959 
in  various  engineering  positions  with  the 
Pacific  Gas  and  Electric  Co. 

CLINTON  S.  DARLING,  of  Santa 
Barbara,  Calif.,  is  now  part-time  U.S.  repre- 
sentative for  SAFAA,  of  Paris,  France. 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


1920 

A  retired  Research  Chemist  and  former 
faculty  member  at  WPI,  CHARLES  A. 
GAMMAL  made  the  news  in  April  of  this 
year  when  he  urged  that  a  ban  on  salt  for 
highway  snow  removal  be  instituted.  He 
said,  "Pollution  is  increasing  at  such  a  rate 
that  it  will  not  be  too  long  before  the 
country  won't  be  fit  for  human  habitation." 
His  viewpoint,  however,  was  strongly  op- 
posed by  the  State  Department  of  Pulbic 
Works  and  the  Massachusetts  Highway  Asso- 
ciation. MR.  GAMMAL  is  a  resident  of 
Worcester. 

1922 

EDWARD  H.  COLESWORTHY,  A  self- 
employed  mechanical  engineer  in  Sarasota, 
Fla.,  now  lives  at  3360  Sheffield  Circle, 
Village  Green,  Sarasota  33580 

.  .  .  WILFRED  H.  HOWE,  currently  serving 
as  chairman  of  the  Board  of  Selectmen  of 
the  town  of  Sharon,  Mass.,  has  been  elected 
to  the  Board  of  Directors  of  Morgan  Memo- 
rial Goodwill  Rehabilitation  Centers  in 
Sharon.  With  more  than  50  patents,  techni- 
cal papers,  and  other  publications  to  his 
credit,  Howe  is  a  Fellow  of  the  Institute  of 
Electric  and  Electronic  Engineers,  an  honor- 
ary member  of  the  Instrumental  Society  of 
America,  and  a  senior  member  of  the 
American  Society  of  Mechanical  Engineers. 

GEORGE  F.  PARSONS  has  recently 
moved  to  Rye,  New  Hampshire.  .  .  ROY  G. 
BENNETT  also  moved  recently  and  is  now 
residing  in  Melrose,  Massachusetts. 

1923 

ANDREW  FIORE  writes  that  he  has 
retired  after  42  years  with  L.T.V.  Ling  Altec 
Inc.  as  vice  president  of  administration:  he 
is  now  residing  in  Leisure  World,  Laguna 
Hills,  Calif. 

1925 

JAMES  I.  CORNELL  reports  that  he  is 
employed  as  the  Acting  Assistant  Director 
for  Curriculum  for  the  Pinellas  County 
Board  of  Education  in  North  Clearwater, 
Florida.  He  resides  in  St.  Petersburg.  .  .  A 
newspaper  article  in  March  quoted 
WILLIAM  B.  GOULD,  3rd  as  saying  that 
retirement  has  made  him  "very  lazy."  Bill 
retired  two  years  ago  after  putting  in  30 
years  as  an  engineer  in  Fort  Monmouth, 
New  Jersey's  laboratories. 

1927 

After  30  years  with  L.T.V.  and  its 
predecessors,  CARL  H.  SCHWIND  has  re- 
tired and  is  enjoying  long-neglected  home 
chores,  reading,  travel,  nature  study  and 
observation,  and  hiking. 


1928 

After  42  years  of  service  with  the 
Western  Massachusetts  Electric  Company, 
WINSLOW  C.  WENTWORTH  has  retired. 
Mr.  Winslow  is  a  resident  of  Turners  Falls, 
Massachusetts. 

1929 

We  have  learned  that  ROGER  M.  L. 
RUSSELL  is  residing  in  Luquillo,  Puerto 
Rico,  where  he  is  Resident  Executive  Engi- 
neer for  the  Factory  Insurance  Association 
of  Hartford,  Connecticut.  .  .  FRANCIS 
WIESMAN  writes,  "I  am  retired  from  teach- 
ing (I)  did  some  programming  at  American 
Optical  Company  until  July,  '70  recession 
hit.  Have  been  professional  parliamentarian 
for  ten  years  —  still  enjoy  it  immensely." 
Mr.  Wiesman  is  a  resident  of  Worcester. 

RUSSELL  C.  WILEY  writes  that  since 
his  retirement  from  Pratt  &  Whitney  Air- 
craft he  is  busier  than  ever. 

1931 

JAY  M.  HARPELL,  chief  electrical 
engineer  for  the  firm  of  Daniel,  Mann, 
Johnson,  &  Mendenhall,  is  now  stationed  in 
Saigon,  Vietnam. 

EDWARD  S.  "TED"  COE,  JR.  reports 
that  he  is  a  resident  of  Rochester,  New  York 
and  has  been  retired  there  for  six  years.  He 
says  he  is  newly  married  for  1  Vi  years  and  he 
also  owns  and  operates  his  own  single  engine 
plane.  .  .  We  have  learned  that  THEODORE 
L.  WANSTALL  has  retired  from  the  General 
Electric  Company  and  is  now  residing  in 
Bethel,  Vermont. 

1932 

THEODORE  H.  BERARD  is  Guidance 
Director  at  the  800  student  Athol- 
Royalston  (Mass.)  Regional  High  School.  .  . 
CURTIS  M.  WHITE  is  residing  in  Crest- 
wood,  Illinois  and  is  working  in  Chicago, 
Illinois  where  he  is  with  General  Office 
Utilities. 

1933 

DR.  RAYMOND  B.  CRAWFORD,  who 
retired  from  the  National  Aniline  &  Chemi- 
cal Company  of  Buffalo,  New  York,  is 
employed  by  the  Central  School  District  of 
West  Seneca,  New  York  as  a  science  teacher. 
Dr.  Crawford  is  a  resident  of  Hamburg,  New 
York.  .  .  The  President  of  Mills  Pharmaceuti- 
cals, Inc.  &  Glencoe  Research,  Inc.  of  St. 
Louis,  Missouri,  is  DR.  HERMAN  W. 
DORN.  .  .  Worcester  County  National  Bank 
has  named  ARAM  KALENIAN  to  its  advi- 
sory board  for  its  Westboro  Branch.  Aram 
has  been  President  of  the  Vee  Arc  Corpora- 
tion of  Westboro,  since  1947.  ..  H. 
EDWARD  PERKINS,  JR.,  writes:  "I  retired 
from  Sikorsky  Aircraft  Division  of  United 
Aircraft  on  February  12,  1971,  after  38 
years  in  industry."  After  taking  a  few  weeks 


41 


of  vacation  in  the  sunny  south  he  has  taken 
up  residence  in  Plymouth,  Vermont  and 
says,  "We  shall  keep  busy  managing  and 
selling  portions  of  our  Vermont  land 
holdings  during  most  of  the  year,  and 
travelling  in  warmer  climes  during  the 
winter  months." 

JAMES  B.  RAFTER  is  now  District 
manager  for  sales  (New  York)  of  Armco 
Steel  Corp.  ..  GORDON  R.  "BUCK" 
WHITTUM  has  been  appointed  district  man- 
ager of  engineering  and  planning  for  U.S. 
Steel's  USS  Realty  Development  Division. 
He  will  have  prime  responsibility  for  negoti- 
ations with  prospective  tenants  interested  in 
the  industrial  park  on  USS  property  in 
Worcester. 

1934 

FREDERICK  A.  BOWERMAN  has  been 
elected  a  director  of  Narragansett  Electric 
Co.  In  addition,  he  is  president  of  Bower- 
man  Bros.  Inc.  and  a  director  of  Almacs, 
Inc.  and  a  trustee  of  Citizens  Savings  Bank 
of  Providence,  R.I. 

KENNETH  E.  BENNETT  reports  that 
his  oldest  daughter  is  a  student  at  Dfew 
University  in  Madison,  New  Jersey,  and  that 
his  youngest  daughter  is  a  senior  at  Fair- 
haven  High  School,  Fairhaven,  Massachu- 
setts. Kenneth  is  employed  by  the  Revere 
Copper  &  Brass  Company,  Inc.,  of  New 
Bedford,  Mass.  ..  WARREN  R.  BURNS  is 
director  of  Marketing  for  the  Florida 
Machine  Products  Division  of  Consolidated 
Foods  Corporation  in  St.  Petersburg, 
Florida.  He  is  a  resident  of  St.  Petersburg 
Beach,  Florida.  .  .  Gov.  Thomas  J.  Meskill  of 
Connecticut  named  H.  RAYMOND 
SJOSTEDT  as  Director  of  Civil  Defense  for 
the  State  of  Connecticut  in  March.  He  is  a 
former  executive  of  the  Watertown  Mfg. 
Company,  Watertown,  Connecticut.  .  .  In 
April,  1971  CHARLES  W.  McELROY  was 
elected  Vice  President  Sales  of  Safety  Elec- 
trical Equipment  Corporation  of  New 
Haven,  Connecticut.  The  company  is  heavily 
involved  with  Mass  Transit  Contracts 
throughout  the  world.  Charlie  is  a  resident 
of  Hamden,  Connecticut.  .  .  RICHARD  W. 
RHODES  retired  from  the  E.  I.  DuPont 
deNemours  &  Company  Inc.  on  August  31, 
1970. 

1935 

Fluor  Ocean  Services,  Inc.  of  Santa 
Barbara,  California,  employs  ALFRED 
CANTOR  as  a  Project  Manager.  .  .  Royal- 
Globe  Insurance  Company,  Ltd.,  of  New 
York,  N.Y.,  reports  that  WILLIAM  E. 
GRUBERT  retired  on  February  15th  of  this 
year.  He  had  been  a  senior  executive  of  the 
company  for  the  past  25  years  and  has 
recently  assumed  the  responsibilities  as  an 
Insurance  Consultant.  ..  VERNER  R. 
OLSON  is  Production  Superintendent  at  the 
Toledo  Plant  of  E.  I.  DuPont  de  Nemours  & 


Company,  Inc.  He  is  a  resident  of  Sylvania, 
Ohio.  .  .  Fiske  &  Gay,  Inc.  of  Orlando, 
Florida,  employs  S.  LINCOLN  PRICE  as  a 
mechanical  engineer.  Mr.  Price  is  a  resident 
of  Deltona,  Florida. 


JOSEPH  GLASSER  has  been  elected  a 
vice  president  of  Raytheon  Company.  He 
had  been  manager  of  the  firm's  largest  plant 
since  1967.  Glasser  has  been  active  in  civic 
affairs,  and  is  a  director  of  the  Greater 
Lawrence  (Mass.)  Chamber  of  Commerce, 
the  Greater  Lawrence  United  Fund,  the 
Greater  Lawrence  Chapter  of  the  American 
Red  Cross,  and  many  other  organizations. 

1936 

C.  JAMES  ETHIER  is  a  resident  of 
Dandridge,  Tennessee,  where  he  is  President 
of  Bush  Bros.  &  Company.  .  .  ARTHUR  D. 
TRIPP,  JR.,  a  past  president  of  the  WPI 
Alumni  Association,  has  incorporated  a 
counseling  service  in  the  area  of  finance, 
insurance  and  investments  under  the  name 
of  ARTHUR  D.  TRIPP,  JR.  &  ASSOCI- 
ATES, INC.  with  offices  in  Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania.  Art  is  also  Secretary-Treasurer 
of  District  730  of  Rotary  International  and 
is  President  of  the  Pittsburgh  Chapter  of 
WPI  Alumni  Association  .  .  JOHN  H. 
WYMAN  is  a  resident  of  Middletown,  New 
Jersey,  and  a  Sales  Engineer  with  Durakool, 
Inc.,  of  Elkhart,  Indiana.  ..  JACOB  A. 
SACKS  reports  that  he  retired  from  the 
Navy  Department  in  July,  1970  and  he  is 
currently  doing  part  time  consulting  work. 

1937 

JOHN  R.  CASEY  reports  that  he  is 
retired  after  serving  as  a  Regional  Vice 
President  for  the  General  Electric  Company. 
John  now  makes  his  home  in  Old  Saybrook, 
Connecticut. 

EDWARD  W.  OSBORN  retired  from  the 
Panama  Canal  Co.  on  May  29,  after  33 
years,  10  months,  and  3  days  of  service.  He 
will  be  living  in  Dudley,  Mass.  .  .  JAMES  B. 
PATCH  writes  that  his  son  James  Jr.  will  be 
a  senior  at  Ohio  Wesleyan  next  year,  major- 
ing in  economics.  His  son  William  will  be 
entering  the  pre-law  program  at  Columbia 
U. 

1938 
THEODORE    C.    ANDREOPOULOS    is 
now   president   of    Home   Tech  Products  in 
Wayland,   Mass.  .  .  DR.   GILBERT  G.  ASH- 
WELL   is  chief   of    the    Laboratory   of  Bio- 


chemistry and  Cellular  Metabolism,  National 
Institute  of  Arthritis  and  Metabolic  Dis- 
eases, at  the  National  Institutes  of  Health, 
Bethesda,  Md.  He  is  a  member  of  the 
editorial  board  of  three  professional  jour- 
nals. .  .  PETER  P.  KOLISS  is  a  department 
head  in  the  Telephone  Loop  Transmission 
Division  of  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories.  .  . 
ROBERT  L.  SOMERVILLE  is  an  independ- 
ent consulting  engineer  in  Neshanic,  N.J.    . 

ERNEST  E.  GUSTAFSON  is  employed 
as  a  Branch  Manager  in  the  New  Jersey 
Office  of  the  Heat  Transfer  Division  of 
American  Standard,  Inc.  .  .  IBM  Corpora- 
tion employs  PHILIP  K.  HATHAWAY  as  a 
Sr.  Customer  Engineer  in  Providence, 
Rhode  Island.  He  formerly  held  the  same 
position  in  the  Concord,  New  Hampshire 
offices  of  IBM.  Phil  resides  in  Sudbury, 
Massachusetts.  .  .  A.  GEORGE  MALLIS, 
President  and  Chief  Engineer  of  Mallis  Asso- 
ciates, Inc.  of  Springfield,  Massachusetts,  an 
architectural-engineering  firm  has  been  re- 
appointed by  Governor  Francis  Sargent  of 
Massachusetts,  to  the  Board  of  Registration 
of  Professional  Engineers  and  of  Land  Sur- 
veyors. .  .  MAURICE  PRESSMAN  was  cited 
in  February  for  "Special  Act  and  Service" 
by  the  U.S.  Army  Mobility  Equipment 
Research  and  Development  Center,  Fort 
Belvoir,  Virginia,  for  authoring  an  article 
concerning  efforts  to  reuse  waste  water.  Mr. 
Pressman  has  been  employed  at  the  Center 
since  1958  and  he  is  a  resident  of  Arlington, 
Virginia.  .  .  FRED  E.  WILEY  is  a  popular 
artist  in  Kennebunkport,  Maine  where  he 
makes  his  home.  .  .  DONALD  B.  CLARK  is 
a  Staff  Engineer  with  the  Caterpillar  Tractor 
Company  in  Mossville,  Illinois  and  is  a 
resident  of  Dunlap,  Illinois.  .  .  CHARLES  C. 
BONIN,  president  of  Chemico,  holds  an 
engineering  license  in  every  state  of  the 
union  as  well  as  the  District  of  Columbia, 
Puerto  Rico,  and  the  Canal  Zone. 


1939 
JAMES  L.  BARTLETT,  JR.  is  President 
of  Hydranautics  in  Goleta,  California  and  he 
is  a  resident  of  Santa  Ynez,  California.  .  . 
The  Microwave  and  Power  Tube  Division  of 
the  Raytheon  Company  employs  EDWARD 
C.  DENCH  as  a  staff  consultant  at  their 
Waltham,  Massachusetts  operation.  Mr. 
Dench  has  been  with  Raytheon  for  24  years, 
and  holds  more  than  sixty  patents  on 
microwave  tubes  and  in  associated  fields.  He 
is  a  resident  of  Annisquam,  Massachu- 
setts. .  .  HAROLD  E.  WHITE  continues  to 
be  employed  by  the  Norton  Company  in 
Worcester,  and  is  presently  Director  of 
Manufacturing  in  the  Abrasive  Materials 
Division.  .  .  RICHARD  B.  WILSON  reports 
that  he  is  currently  in  the  process  of 
organizing  a  consulting  engineering  service 
on  the  west  coast. 


42 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


1940 

EDWARD  E.  J.  HAFEY  is  manager  of 
the  San  Leandro,  Calif.,  branch  of  the  Farr 
Co. 

DONALD  S.  CHATFIELD  is  currently  a 
resident  of  Pemaquid  Harbor,  Maine,  where 
he  is  employed  by  George  H.  Brittain  & 
Sons,  Inc.  ..  ROBERT  H.  GIBBS  is  Presi- 
dent of  Video  Display  Devices,  Inc.  of 
Canton,  Massachusetts.  Bob  is  a  resident  of 
Medfield.  ..  ROBERT  E.  HIGGS,  im- 
mediate past  President  of  the  WPI  Alumni 
Association,  has  joined  the  Joy  Manufac- 
turing Company  in  Pittsburgh,  Pennsylvania 
as  Director  of  Data  Processing.  Bob  is 
residing  in  Upper  St.  Clair,  Pennsylvania.  .  . 
NOEL  R.  MALEADY  reports  that  he  has 
just  taken  retirement  from  the  General 
Electric  Company  after  30  years  of  service. 
He  has  held  major  R&D  management  posi- 
tions at  G.  E.  locations  throughout  the 
country.  He  says  he  will  now  devote  more 
time  to  interests  in  real  estate,  church  music 
and  hobbies.  Three  Maleady  children  are 
married,  a  fourth  has  completed  her  third 
year  at  the  University  of  Dayton,  and  the 
youngest  is  in  the  second  grade.  Noel  is  a 
resident  of  Clearwater,  Florida. 

1941 

ARTHUR  J.  JACKSON  is  located  in 
Southington,  Connecticut,  where  he  is  ex- 
ecutive vice  president  and  general  manager 
of  The  Peck,  Stow  &  Wilcox  Co.,  Division  of 
Veeder  Industries,  Inc.  Art  joined  the  com- 
pany in  February,  1970  after  serving  for 
many  years  with  the  Whitlock  Manufactur- 
ing Company  of  West  Hartford,  Connecti- 
cut. .  .  Brig.  Gen.  HARVEY  W.  EDDY, 
Air  Force  Systems  Command  Deputy  Chief 
of  Staff  for  Personnel,  has  retired  from  the 
U.S.  Air  Force  after  28  years  of  active 
military  duty.  Gen.  Eddy  was  presented  the 
Air  Force  Distinguished  Service  Medal  and 
was  cited  for  exceptionally  meritorious  serv- 
ice. .  .  as  commander.  Office  of  Aerospace 
Research.  .  .  and  as  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff 
for  Personnel,  Headquarters  Air  Force 
Systems  Command,  at  retirement  cere- 
monies at  Andrews  AFB,  Maryland.  .  . 
STANLEY  S.  RIBB  has  been  named  presi- 
dent of  the  Blackstone  Valley  Electric  Com- 
pany of  Lincoln,  Rhode  Island.  He  was 
formerly  vice  president  and  general  manager 
of    that   concern.  . . 


HILLIARD  W.  PAIGE 
has  been  elected  president  and  director  of 
General  Dynamics  Corporation  in  St.  Louis, 

THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Mo.  In  announcing  the  action,  the  chairman 
and  chief  executive  officer  said,  "Hilliard 
Paige  will  add  a  new  and  unique  dimension 
of  leadership  to  our  top  management  team. 
He  brings  to  General  Dynamics  a  wealth  of 
experience,  technical  and  managerial,  after 
serving  many  years  in  progressively  more 
responsible  positions  with  a  very  fine  and 
successful  company.  Paige,  who  has  been 
senior  vice  president,  corporate  executive 
staff,  at  General  Electric,  is  a  member  of  the 
National  Academy  of  Engineering  and  the 
Navy  League  of  the  United  States,  and  is  a 
fellow  of  the  American  Institute  of  Aero- 
nautics and  Astronautics.  He  received  an 
honorary  Doctor  of  Engineering  degree 
from  WPI  in  1962.  Paige  was  active  in  the 
Cincinnati  chapter  of  the  Alumni  Associa- 
tion as  president  and  treasurer  for  several 
years,  and  he  has  worked  on  the  Alumni 
Fund  and  Techni-Forum  in  various 
capacities. 

FRANK  R.  LINDBERG  has  three  - 
count  'em,  three!  —  children  entering  col- 
lege this  fall.  Twins  John  and  Jan,  both  17, 
and  brother  Bob,  18,  all  entered  the  Univer- 
sity of  Dayton  in  September.  Col.  Lindberg 
(USAF,  ret.)  is  a  federal  civil  service  engi- 
neer at  the  Technical  Management  and 
Operations  Office,  Aeronautical  Systems 
Division  (AFSC),  Wright-Patterson  AFB, 
Ohio. 

1942 

JOHN  H.  QUINN,  JR.,  has  moved  to  a 
new  home  in  Laguna  Niguel,  Calif.  He  is  a 
chief  project  engineer  on  the  Thor/Delta 
program  at  McDonnell-Douglas. 

ROGER  E.  COREY,  a  staff  engineer 
with  the  New  England  Tel.  &  Tel.  Co.  in 
Boston,  has  been  elected  vice  director  of  the 
New  England  Division  of  the  American 
Radio  Relay  League,  Inc.,  a  national  organ- 
ization of  amateur  radio  operators.  Roger  is 
a  resident  of  Westwood,  Massachusetts.  .  . 
The  Electrolux  Division  of  Consolidated 
Foods  employs  GORDON  H.  RAYMOND  in 
Old  Greenwich,  Connecticut  as  manager  of 
engineering  and  quality  control.  He  is  a 
resident  of  Southington,  Conn.  LEONARD 
I.  SMITH  is  a  Senior  Research  Engineer  with 
the  Norton  Company  in  Worcester.  .  . 
American  Optical  of  Southbridge,  Massa- 
chusetts has  announced  that  ERIC  W. 
ESSEN  has  been  appointed  planning  and 
inventory  control  manager  for  American 
Optical  Safety  Products  Division.  Prior  to 
joining  A.O.  Mr.  Essen  was  Director  of 
Product  Planning  &  Control  Manager  for 
L.G.  Balfour  Company,  Attleboro, 
Massachusetts.  .  .  ROBERT  E.  YAEGER  has 
been  appointed  Director  of  the  Analog 
Exchange  Laboratory  at  Bell  Telephone 
Laboratories  in  North  Andover, 

Massachusetts.  Mr.  Yaeger  joined  Bell  Labs 
in  1942  and  since  1965  has  been  Head  of 
the  Data  and  Digital  Systems  Department  at 
Bell  Labs,  in  North  Andover. 


1943 

FRANK  SZEL  is  a  mechanical  engineer 
with  HWH  &  Associates,  Consulting  Engi- 
neers, in  Cleveland. 

JOSEPH  M.  JOLDA,  dean  of  the  eve- 
ning division  of  Worcester  Junior  College, 
has  been  chosen  for  inclusion  among  Out- 
standing Educators  of  America.  Joe  is  a 
resident  of  Webster,  Mass.  .  .  BEHRENDS 
MESSER,  JR.  is  Manager-Marketing  Engi- 
neering with  the  Mobil  Research  and  Devel- 
opment Corporation  of  Princeton,  New 
Jersey.  .  .  Forest  D.  Snell,  Inc.  of  Florham 
Park,  New  Jersey  employs  JAMES  H. 
PARLIMAN  as  Associate  Research  Director. 
Jim  is  a  resident  of  Madison,  New  Jersey. 

1944 

Springfield,  Massachusetts  is  the  loca- 
tion of  JOHN  R.  FLEMING  where  he  is  a 
General  Foreman  with  Rex  Chainbelt,  Inc., 
and  a  resident  of  Longmeadow.  .  .  Another 
member  of  the  class  who  is  employed  in  the 
Rex  organization  is  ALFRED  F.  LARKIN, 
JR.  He  was  recently  elected  Executive  Vice 
President  of  Rex  International,  Inc.  and  was 
formerly  President  of  the  Conveyor  and 
Power  Transmission  Division  of  Rex  Chain- 
belt,  Inc.  He  is  a  resident  of  Mequon, 
Wisconsin,  and  has  been  employed  by  the 
Rex  organization  since  his  graduation  from 
WPI.  .  .  IBM  Corporation  employs  ALLAN 
R.  MANDELIN  in  Houston,  Texas,  as  an 
Advisory  Programmer.  .  .  JESSE  R.  WATT 
is  a  resident  of  Annapolis,  Maryland,  and  is 
employed  by  the  National  Highway  Traffic 
Administration  in  Washington  as  a  Physical 
Scientist. 

DR.  DANIEL  KOVAL  has  been  ap- 
pointed chairman  of  the  Mathematics  De- 
partment at  Pacific  Union  College,  Angwin, 
Calif. 

1945 

WILLIAM  P.  DENSMORE  has  been 
appointed  vice  president  and  general  man- 
ager,   Grinding    Wheel    Division,  of    Norton 


Company.  With  Norton  since  1946,  Dens- 
more  is  active  in  civic  and  educational 
affairs  and  in  1970  was  appointed  to  the 
Massachusetts  Board  of  Education.  .  . 
ANSON  C.  FYLER  is  chairman  of  the  board 
at  Arrow-Hart,  Inc.  ..  GEORGE  W. 
GREGORY  has  been  appointed  to  the 
Commission  on  Services  and  Expenditures 
in  Rhode  Island.  Gregory  is  assistant  re- 
search and  development  manager  at  Electric 

43 


Boat  Division  of  General  Dynamics.  .  . 
WILLIAM  C.  HOWARD,  divisional  vice 
president  of  sales  for  Norton  Company, 
graduated  in  August  from  the  Advanced 
Management  Program  of  the  Harvard  Uni- 
versity Graduate  School  of  Business  Admin- 
istration. The  13-week  course  was  covered 
in  two  summers.  .  . 


.  .  .  GEORGE  J.  KENNEDY 
has  been  named  special  executive  to  the 
Chairman  of  Emerson  Electric  Co.  .  . 
ROGER  N.  PERRY,  JR.,  Director  of  public 
relations  at  WPI,  was  awarded  the  Silver 
Anvil,  the  highest  accolade  of  the  Public 
Relations  Society  of  America,  for  outstand- 
ing achievement  in  "special  events"  public 
relations  for  his  coverage  of  WPI's  participa- 
tion in  the  1970  Clean  Air  Car  Race.  .  . 
ROBERT  E.  SCOTT  is  now  chairman  and 
managing  director  of  FM  Insurance  Co., 
Ltd.,  in  London,  England.  .  .  DR.  MITCH- 
ELL J.  TENEROWICZ  has  been  certified  as 
a  specialist  in  the  practice  of  family  medi- 
cine. .  .  ROBERT  L.  BALLARD  is  vice 
president-engineering  for  the  controls  divi- 
sion of  Singer  Co.,  in  Melrose  Park,  III. 

Standard  Oil  Company  (Kentucky) 
employs  JOHN  B.  McMASTER  in 
Pascagoula,  Mississippi  as  Manager  of 
Process  Engineering.  John  was  formerly 
with  Standard  Oil  Company  of  Califor- 
nia. .  .  Ohio  is  the  location  of  CHARLES  C. 
SHATTUCK  who  is  a  resident  of  N. 
Madison  and  Production  Manager  for  the 
Industrial  Control  Division  of  Hubbell  in 
Madison. 


1946 

The  President  of  Benny's  Inc.  of 
Esmond,  Rhode  Island  is  MALCOLM  C. 
BROMBERG.  .  .  ALVIN  Y.  BROVERMAN 
is  a  Research  Engineer  with  Kuhlman  Elec- 
tric Corporation  of  Crystal  Springs,  Missis- 
sippi and  a  resident  of  Jackson,  Mississippi. 

REV.  PRESCOTT  E.  GROUT  has  been 
appointed  the  new  minister  of  the  Moosup 
United  Methodist  Church,  Moosup,  Conn. 
Grout  is  also  assistant  professor  of  philoso- 
phy at  Nichols  College.  .  ,  DELBERT  E. 
WALTON  is  a  self-employed  sales  engineer 
in  London,  England. 


1946B 

JOHN  LEE  is  teaching  mathematics  at 
Plymouth-Carver  High  School,  Plymouth, 
Mass. 


1947 

LEO  W.  F.  GEARY  is  a  resident  of 
North  Stonington,  Connecticut  and  is 
employed  by  Technirite  Electronics,  Divi- 
sion of  Gulton  Industries  as  Chief  Engineer. 

PAUL  D.  O'DONNELL,  with  Westing- 
house  Electric  in  Pittsburgh,  has  just  com- 
pleted a  one-year  term  as  national  president 
of  the  American  Institute  of  Industrial 
Engineers.  He  was  listed  in  the  1970  publi- 
cation of  Engineers  of  Distinction. 

1948 

GORDON  E.  HALL  is  now  chairman  of 
the  math  department  at  St.  Andrews  School 
in  Barrington,  R.I.  .  .  Prentice-Hall  has  just 
published  Fundamentals  of  Electronic  Cir- 
cuits, by  ARTHUR  L.  PIKE.  He  had  worked 
on  the  textbook  for  seven  years.  .  .  CLARK 
L.  POLAND  has  been  named  vice  president 
for  operations  development  of  Consumer 
and  Service  Industries,  American  Can  Com- 
pany. 

LYNWOOD  W.  LENTELL  is  employed 
by  the  Division  of  Highways  in  the  State  of 
California  and  he  is  a  resident  of  Fresno.  .  . 
CLARK  L.  POLAND  of  New  Canaan,  Con- 
necticut has  been  named  vice  president  for 
operations  development  of  Consumer  and 
Service  Industries,  American  Can  Company. 
Clark  has  been  group  vice  president  in 
manufacturing  and  distribution  at  Howard 
Johnson  Company  for  the  past  two  years 
and  was  previously  at  General  Foods  Corpo- 
ration for  16  years.  ..  HERBERT  R. 
CAHOON,  JR.  is  self-employed  as  a  con- 
struction engineer  in  Centerville,  Massa- 
chusetts. .  .  ROBERT  E.  HUBLEY  reports 
that  he  is  now  Assistant  Vice  President- 
Intrastate  Regulatory  Matters  for  Western 
Union  Telegraph  Company  in  New  York 
City.  Bob  is  a  resident  of  Hawthorne,  New 
Jersey.  .  .  ALTON  S.  KELSEY,  JR.  is  ex- 
tremely busy  these  days.  He  is  a  staff 
assistant  in  Structural  Mechanics  with  the 
Grumman  Corporation  of  Bethpage,  L.I. 
and  is  also  president  of  Rel-Co  Publication 
Corporation  of  Plainview,  New  York.  He  is  a 
resident  of  Williston,  New  York. 

1949 

DEAN  P.  AMIDON  is  chief  district 
engineer  for  the  Massachusetts  Department 
of  Public  Works  in  Lenox,  Mass.,  and  he  was 
recently  appointed  to  the  DPW's  Environ- 
mental Action  Committee.  ..  PHILIP  G. 
BUFFINGTON,  vice  president  of  State 
Farm  Fire  and  Casualty  Company,  has  been 
re-elected  chairman  of  the  executive  com- 
mittee of  the  National  Flood  Insurers  Asso- 
ciation. .  .  HOMER  E.  MacNUTT,  JR.  is 
manager  of  manufacturing  for  Morgan  Con- 
struction Co.  of  Worcester.  He  has  held  the 
position  since  1965  and  before  that  was  vice 
president  of  Worcester  Valve  Co.  for  11 
years.  .  .  JOHN  C.  O'TOOLE  has  been  ap- 
pointed by  Massachusetts  Governor  Sargent 
to  a  Special  Commission  to  study  pollution 


controi  of  the  Connecticut  River  as  it 
applies  to  the  State.  John  is  chief  engineer 
for  Worcester  County  and  a  resident  of 
Clinton.  .  .  IBM  Corporation  employs 
MALCOLM  A.  SANBORN  as  an  Advisory 
Engineer  at  their  East  Fish  kill,  N.Y.  opera- 
tion. .  .  ALFRED  STROGOFF  reports  that 
he  left  his  position  as  Group  Executive  and 
President  of  the  Education  Group  of  Litton 
Industries,  Inc.  in  September  of  1970  and 
that  he  is  now  employed  as  executive  vice 
president  of  Sun  Chemical  Corporation  in 
New  York  City. 

THOMAS  J.  COONAN  III  is  located  in 
Illinois  where  he  is  a  general  marketing 
representative  in  the  Plastics  Department  for 
E.  I.  duPont  deNemours  &  Company,  Inc. 
He  is  a  resident  of  Northbrook.  .  .  JOHN  R. 
HUNTER  has  been  promoted  to  the  posi- 
tion of  Engineering  Director  at  the  Electric 
Boat  Division  of  General  Dynamics  Corpora- 
tion in  Groton,  Connecticut.  .  .  ROBERT  E. 
MILLER,  JR.  is  Transmission  and  Distribu- 
tion Superintendent  at  Connecticut  Light 
and  Power  Company  of  Hartford,  Con- 
necticut and  is  a  resident  of  Southington, 
Connecticut.  .  .JOHN  A.  SNYDER  is  with 
the  Union  Carbide  Corporation  Plastics 
Products  Division  in  New  York  City  and  is 
Market  Manager  of  Wire  and  Cable  Mate- 
rials. ..  We  have  just  learned  that  SMIL 
RUHMAN,  now  at  the  Weizmann  Institute 
of  Science  in  Israel,  was  awarded  the  Roths- 
child Prize  last  year  for  his  work  on  the 
design  and  construction  of  the  "Golem" 
computer.  The  Rothschild  Prize  is  regarded 
in  Israel  as  equivalent  to  a  Nobel  Prize. 

ROBERT  W.  COOK  is  branch  manager 
at  Gould  Inc.,  Brush  Division.  .  . 
RAYMOND  J.  REMILLARD  is  now  with 
Teledyne  Semiconductor  in  Mountain  View, 
Calif. 

1950 

ROBERT  B.  ALLEN  has  been  appoint- 
ed Director  of  engineering  at  New  Hamp- 
shire Ball  Bearing  Co.  ..  WALTER  R. 
ANDERSON  is  president  of  Leisure-Rama, 
Inc.,  in  Dover,  N.H.  .  .  CARL  E.  JOHANS- 
SON is  campaign  manager  for  James  Havi- 
land  II,  Republican  candidate  for  the  Con- 
necticut legislature.  Haviland  cited  Johans- 
son's background  and  knowledge  of  prob- 
lem areas  in  choosing  him.  .  .  KURT  A. 
SCHNEIDER  writes  that  since  last  November 
he  has  been  assigned  by  Sikorsky  Aircraft 
to  Siebel  in  Donauworth,  West  Germany, 
during  the  co-production  by  the  two  firms 
of  the  CH  53G  helicopter.  He  and  his  family 
have  enjoyed  living  in  the  historic  city  of 
Augsburg,  located  in  the  scenic  region  of 
Bavaria. 

STANLEY  FRIEDMAN  is  President  of 
Spaulding  Fibre  Company  and  a  Group  Vice 
President  of  Monogram  Industries,  Inc.  of 
Tonawanda,  New  York.  He  is  a  resident  of 
Williamsville,  New  York.  .  .  FRANK  W. 
PEASE,  formerly  with  American  Cyanamid 


44 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Company  is  now  with  Stauffer  Chemical 
Company  as  Manager  of  Purchasing  for  their 
Corporate  Engineering  Department  located 
in  Dobbs  Ferry,  New  York.  ..ANDRE 
JEAN  TASSO  reports  that  he  is  residing  in 
Montreal,  Quebec,  Canada  and  is  self  em- 
ployed as  a  Consultant  in  the  fields  of 
Information  Engineering  and  Communi- 
cations. 

1951 

LOUIS  G.  DELSIGNORE  is  a  Program 
Development  Engineer  with  the  U.S.  Air 
Force  at  Pease  AFB,  New  Hampshire  and  a 
resident  of  Dover,  New  Hampshire.  .  . 
WALTER  B.  DENNEN,  JR.  has  been  named 
Manager,  News  and  Information  for  RCA 
Solid  State  Division  with  headquarters  in 
Somerville,  New  Jersey.  Walter  is  also  Chair- 
man of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association's 
Journal  and  Publications  Committee.  .  . 
DONALD  A.  KNOWLTON  of  Rockport, 
Massachusetts  has  been  appointed  president 
of  Sprague  Industries,  Inc.,  in  Boston. 
Sprague  is  a  Boston  based  Real  Estate 
Development  and  Construction  Com- 
pany. .  .  DEWEY  R.  LUND  is  New  England 
District  Sales  Manager  of  Duriron  Co.,  Inc. 
with  headquarters  in  Needham,  Massa- 
chusetts. He  is  a  resident  of  Sudbury, 
Massachusetts.  WALTER  R.  ANDERSON  is 
president  of  Leisure-Rama,  Inc.  of  Dover, 
New  Hampshire  and  is  a  resident  of  York 
Beach,  Maine. 

1952 

BRUCE  S.  CAMPBELL  is  employed  in 
Mt.  Storm,  West  Virginia  by  Stone  &  Webster 
Engineering  Corporation  as  an  Assist- 
ant Superintendent  of  Construction.  He  is  a 
resident  of  Oakland,  Maryland.  .  .  Motorola 
Inc.  has  appointed  RICHARD  C. 
GILLETTE  Manager  of  Special  Systems  for 
Motorola's  Applied  Systems  Unit  in  Wash- 
ington, D.C.  .  .  ROLAND  R.  ST.  LOUIS  is 
located  in  Groton,  Connecticut  where  he  is 
employed  by  Charles  Pfizer  &  Company  as 
Senior  Supervisor  of  Chemical  Products.  .  . 
We  have  learned  that  F.  PATTERSON 
SMITH  is  Supervisory  Engineer  for  Narco 
Scientific,  Inc.  of  Fort  Washington,  Pennsyl- 
vania. He  is  a  resident  of  Dresher,  Pennsyl- 
vania. 

Married  -  GORDON  C.  WILLARD  to 
Miss  Alice  Corbley  Kern,  of  Richmond, 
Virginia,  on  February  20,  1971.  GORDON 
is  Director  of  International  Procurement  for 
the  Polaroid  Corporation  in  Waltham,  Mass. 
and  the  couple  is  residing  in  Waltham. 

1953 

DR.  ARNOLD  ALLENTUCH  is  a  Pro- 
fessor of  Mechanical  Engineering  at  Newark 
College  of  Engineering  in  Newark,  New 
Jersey.  He  resides  in  Huntington,  New 
York.  .  .WILLIAM  M.  WALSH  has  joined 
Tyrol  &  Wethey  Company,  Inc.,  of  Glaston- 
bury,   Connecticut.    The    Company    is    in- 


volved in  building  and  development.  Prior  to 
joining  the  Corporation  he  was  with  United 
Aircraft  Corporation  for  fifteen  years,  most 
recently  as  Supervisor  of  Professional  and 
Technical  Recruitment  for  the  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft  Division.  .  .  Kelly  Spring- 
field Tire  Company  has  appointed 
THEODORE  C.  FRITZ  JR.  to  the  position 
of  Section  Manager  Tire  Design.  Ted  is 
located  in  Cumberland,  Maryland. 

1954 

DUDLEY  REDDEN  is  presently  vice 
president  of  Property  Line  Surveys  and  a 
member  of  the  board  of  directors  of  Scho- 
field  Brothers,  Inc.,  Land  Surveyors  and 
Civil  Engineers  of  Framingham,  Massa- 
chusetts. ..  RICHARD  H.  WHEELOCK  is 
Vice  President  of  Marketing  for  the  Elgar 
Corporation,  San  Diego,  California.  .  .  New 
York  Telephone  Company  employs  ROY  H. 
WISE  as  a  Special  Representative  in  their 
Sales  Department.  Roy  is  a  resident  of 
Denville,  New  Jersey.  DR.  RICHARD  E. 
GILBERT  is  at  the  University  of  Nebraska 
in  Lincoln  where  he  is  a  professor  of 
Chemical  Engineering.  .  .  GILBERT  K. 
NERSESIAN  is  with  the  Army  Corps  of 
Engineers  in  New  York  City  where  he  is 
Chief  of  the  Beach  Erosion  &  Hurricane 
Section. 

1955 

HENRY  F.  SPADONI,  JR.  is  a  resident 
of  West  Springfield,  Massachusetts  and  is 
President  of  Customer  Savings  Corporation 
in  West  Springfield.  .  .  Army  Lt.  Col  DEAN 
M.  CARLSON  is  located  at  Ft.  Holabird, 
Maryland  where  he  is  Director,  Military 
Intelligence  Presentation  Team.  ..  Sanders 
Associates  Inc.  of  Nashua,  New  Hampshire 
employs  WILFRID  G.  DUDEVOIR  as  a 
Senior  Engineer. 

1956 

GUY  W.  NICHOLS,  JR.,  SIM  has  been 
promoted  to  President  of  the  New  England 
Electric  System.  Guy  is  a  resident  of  Need- 
ham  Heights,  Mass.  .  .  JOSEPH  F. 
PAPARELLA  is  assistant  secretary  of  The 
Foxboro  Company  and  manager  of  its  cor- 
porate legal  department.  He  joined  Foxboro 
in  1963  and  is  a  resident  of  Holliston.  .  . 
ROBERT  C.  SKELTON  recently  received  a 
Masters  Degree  from  George  Washington 
University  and  is  currently  in  the  U.S. 
Army,  stationed  in  Stuttgart,  Germany.  .  . 
Norton  Company  employs  ROY  F.  STONE 
in  Worcester  as  a  Data  Processing  Con- 
sultant. 

1957 

RICHARD  R.  ASHBAUGH  is  a  Project 
Engineer  with  AURA,  Inc.  of  Tucson, 
Arizona.  .  .  DAVID  W.  HOSKINSON,  chief 
mechanical  engineer  of  the  United  Illumi- 
nating Co.,  of  New  Haven,  Connecticut  has 


been  appointed  chairman  of  the  conserva- 
tion project  for  the  Quinipiac  Council,  Boy 
Scouts  of  America.  .  .  Vulcan  Materials 
Company  of  Baton  Rouge,  La.  employs 
JOHN  J.  KELLY,  JR.  as  their  Production 
Superintendent.  ..  ALBERT  G.  LANGILL 
reports  that  he  is  self  employed  and  is  a 
resident  of  Oxford,  Maine.  .  .  Shell  Oil  Com- 
pany employs  ARTHUR  R.  LAROCQUE  as 
a  District  Manager  in  Southfield,  Michigan 
and  Art  is  a  resident  of  Troy,  Michigan.  .  . 
THEODORE  F.  ROE,  MS  is  an  Associate 
Electrical  Engineer  at  Cornell  Aeronautical 
Labs,  Inc.  in  Buffalo,  New  York.  .  .  Vice 
President  and  General  Manager  of  the  Metal- 
lurgical Products  Division  of  the  Bundy 
Corporation  in  Warren,  Michigan  is 
RICHARD  M.  SILVEN.  .  .JAMES  R. 
CLARKE  III  is  a  Project  Engineer  with 
Carus  Chemical  Company,  Inc.  in  LaSalle, 
Illinois. 

1958 

PHILIP  M.  FRENCH,  JR.  is  a  Chief 
Product  Engineer  in  the  Avionics  Lab  of  the 
U.S.  Army's  Electronics  Command  at  Fort 
Monmouth,  New  Jersey.  .  .  New  England 
Telephone  Company  employs  THAYER  A. 
FRENCH  as  a  Commercial  Staff  Supervisor. 
He  is  a  resident  of  Merrimack,  New  Hamp- 
shire. .  .  Another  member  of  the  Class  who 
is  located  at  Fort  Monmouth  is  DR.  LARRY 
DWORKIN  who  is  an  Electrical  Engineer  in 
the  Communications-Automatic  Data  Proc- 
essing Laboratory  and  who  was  recently 
awarded  a  patent  for  "Pulse  Code  Modula- 
tion Terminal  with  Improved  Synchronizing 
Circuitry.".  .  .  West  Penn  Power  Company 
has  announced  that  DONALD  B.  HAY- 
WARD  has  been  named  engineering  super- 
visor of  their  Lincoln  Division.  Don  is  a 
resident  of  Greensburg,  Pennsylvania.  .  . 
HARVEY  A.  BERGER  is  a  Marketing  Man- 
ager in  Foster  City,  California. 

1959 

DAVID  L.  BACKLIN  of  Shelburne 
Falls,  Massachusetts  has  been  appointed 
senior  supervisor  for  secondary  education 
for  the  Worcester  regional  office  of  the 
Massachusetts  State  Department  of  Educa- 
tion. Dave  was  formerly  a  teacher  and 
adminstrator  at  Mohawk  Regional  School  in 
Shelburne  Falls.  .  .  RICHARD  N.  GUSTAF- 
SON  has  been  promoted  to  senior  engineer 
manager  at  IBM's  Systems  Development 
Division's  Poughkeepsie  (New  York)  Labo- 
ratory. He  has  been  employed  by  IBM  since 
has  graduation  from  WPI...  A  recent  re- 
cipient of  a  Master  of  Engineering  degree 
from  Penn.  State  University  is  WILLIAM  U. 
PURSELL,  JR.  Bill  is  a  resident  of  Ashe- 
ville.  North  Carolina  where  he  is  employed 
by  SKF  Industries,  Inc.  as  an  engineering 
manager.  .  .  ROBERT  F.  STRACHAN  is  an 
Underwriting  Manager  for  Kemper  Insur- 
ance Company  in  New  York  City  and  is  a 


'HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


45 


resident  of  Old  Greenwich,  Connecticut.  .  . 
GEZA  C.  ZIEGLER  is  a  resident  of  Stam- 
ford, Connecticut  where  he  is  employed  as  a 
senior  electrical  engineer  by  CBS  Labora- 
tories. 

1960 

GEORGE  H.  HETLEY,  JR.,  MS  is  a 
Principle  Development  Engineer  for  Honey- 
well Inc.  at  their  Radiation  Center  in  Lex- 
ington, Massachusetts.  .  .  SANG  Kl  LEE  is 
now  self-employed  as  a  Counsellor  at  Law 
and  is  located  in  New  York  City.  Sang  is 
President  of  the  Northern  New  Jersey  Chap- 
ter of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association.  .  . 
STEPHEN  LEVY  is  a  physicist  at  U.S. 
Army's  Electronics  Lab  at  Fort  Monmouth, 
New  Jersey.  Steve  is  also  Chairman  of  the 
Deal  Lake  (New  Jersey)  Research  Com- 
mittee of  Citizens  Against  Water  Pollution. 
Steve  is  a  resident  of  Asbury  Park,  New 
Jersey.  .  .  BRUCE  E.  SCHOPPE,  who  re- 
ceived a  MBA  degree  from  Western  New 
England  College  in  1970,  is  Manufacturing 
Superintendent  at  Monsanto  Company  in 
Springfield,  Mass.  Bruce  is  a  resident  of 
Wilbraham,  Massachusetts.  .  .  RCA  employs 
BERNARD  J.  SEASTROM  as  an  Engineer 
at  their  Computer  Systems  Center  in  Marl- 
borough, Massachusetts.  .  .  A  Senior  Electri- 
cal Engineer  for  Raytheon  Company  is  H. 
DAVID  SUTTON.  Dave  is  a  resident  of 
Newington,  New  Jersey.  .  .  An  Assistant 
Vice  President  of  Bankers  Trust  Interna- 
tional, Ltd.  of  London,  England  is  DAVID 
J.  WELCH.  .  .  SI  M.  KIM  is  a  Design  Section 
Engineer  in  the  Solid  State  Division  of  the 
RCA  Corporation  in  Somerville,  New 
Jersey.  .  .  Hooker  Chemical  Corporation  of 
Burlington,  New  Jersey  employs  ALEX- 
ANDER J.  KOWALEWSKI  as  a  Process 
Engineer.  .  .  Army  Maj.  LEONARD  S. 
STRZELECKI  is  located  in  Long  Beach, 
California  where  he  is  a  Senior  Advisor  with 
the  Long  Beach  Army  Reserve. 


1961 

DR.  NORMAN  F.  BOLYEA  is  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Engineering  Faculty  of  RPI  in 
Troy,  New  York  and  he  also  serves  as  an 
adjunct  professor  at  Union  College  in  Sche- 
nectady. .  .  BRADLEY  E.  HOSMER  is  em- 
ployed by  Marketing  Action  Group,  Inc.  of 
Fairfield,  Connecticut.  Brad  is  a  resident  of 
Washington  Depot,  Connecticut  and  serves 
the  WPI  Alumni  Association  as  one  of  its 
Vice  Presidents.  .  .  RAYMOND  P.  REC  is  a 
Technical  Staff  Engineer  at  the  Newport 
News  Shipbuilding  Division  of  the  Tenneco 
Corporation  in  Newport  News,  Virginia.  .  . 
ROBERT  F.  SCHUESSLER  is  in  Los  An- 
geles, California  where  he  is  a  resident 
manager  for  the  Fortifiber  Corporation.  Bob 
is  a  resident  of  Lakewood,  California.  .  . 
EDWARD  R.  DESPLAINES  is  located  in 
Stroudsburg,  Pennsylvania  where  he  is  As- 
sistant    to     the    Chief    Engineer    of    Inter- 


national Boiler  Works.  .  .  DR.  GORDON  M. 
PARKER  is  a  Senior  Research  Associate 
with  PPG  Industries  of  Springdale,  Pennsyl- 
vania. .  .  KENNETH  L.  TEBO  is  a  Systems 
Project  Engineer  for  Hobbs  Manufacturing 
Company  in  Worcester.  .  .  RIMAS  A. 
ZINAS  writes:  "I  am  still  employed  at 
Homer  Research  Labs,  of  Bethlehem  Steel 
Corporation,  Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania.  Re- 
cently, I  was  promoted  to  Supervisor,  Con- 
trol Computer  Applications  Group.  The 
family  now  consists  of  my  wife,  Natalie,  and 
two  sturdy  offspring,  Audrey,  51/2  and 
Vincent  4. 

1962 

Married:  BRADFORD  J.  BOOKER  to 
Miss  Ellen  Elizabeth  Risley  of  Fairfield, 
Connecticut  on  February  27,  1971.  Brad  is 
an  Engineer  with  Hamilton  Standard,  a 
division  of  United  Aircraft  Corporation,  in 
Windsor  Locks,  Connecticut.  The  couple  is 
residing  in  Windsor  Locks. 

Born:  Mr.  and  Mrs.  GEORGE  H.  FORS- 
BERG,  a  son  on  October  4,  1970.  The 
Forsbergs  reside  in  Pensacola,  Florida  where 
George  is  a  Senior  Engineer  in  Process 
Development  with  the  Monsanto  Company. 

JOEL  N.  FREEDMAN  recently  received 
a  MBA  degree  from  Boston  University.  Joel 
is  a  member  of  the  Technical  Staff  of  the 
Mitre  Corporation  of  Bedford,  Massa- 
chusetts and  is  residing  in  Waltham.  .  .  The 
Business  Systems  Markets  Division  of  East- 
man Kodak  Company  recently  announced 
that  they  have  appointed  KENNETH  J. 
LaLIBERTE  to  a  position  as  a  Regional 
Photographic  Specialist  serving  Kodak  cus- 
tomers in  Cleveland  and  Cincinnati,  Ohio, 
Detroit  and  Pittsburgh.  Ken  has  been  with 
Kodak  since  1964.  ..  DR.  JOHN  E. 
LUKENS  is  self-employed  as  a  consultant  in 
Jamestown,  Rhode  Island.  .  .  BERNARD  J. 
MEISTER  is  a  Research  Engineer  with  the 
Dow  Chemical  Company  in  Midland,  Michi- 
gan. .  .  Friendly  Ice  Cream  Corporation  of 
North  Wilbraham,  Massachusetts  employs 
BRYCE  A.  NORWOOD  as  a  planning  engi- 
neer. He  is  a  resident  of  Hampden.  .  . 
ROBERT  P.  WILDER  has  been  promoted  to 
Marketing  Manager  of  the  Data  Processing 
Division  of  the  IBM  Corporation  in  Port- 
land, Maine.  Bob  was  formerly  with  IBM  in 
Washington,  D.C.  and  has  now  moved  to 
Cape  Elizabeth,  Maine. 

ROBERT  J.  BAGDIS  is  an  Electrical 
Engineer  with  the  Norton  Company  of 
Worcester.  .  .  RONALD  C.  GAGNE  is  Sys- 
tems Engineer  with  the  General  Electric 
Company  in  Binghamton,  New  York  and  he 
resides  in  Vestal,  New  York.  .  .  Wiltek  Inc. 
of  Wilton,  Connecticut,  a  manufacturer  of 
data  communications  equipment,  has  pro- 
moted F.  SPENCER  POOLEY,  JR.  to  the 
position  of  vice  president,  Research  and 
Development.  Mr.  Pooley  joined  Wiltek  two 
years  ago  and  before  that  was  a  member  of 


the  Technical  Staff  of  Bell  Telephone  Labs 
at  Whippany,  New  Jersey. 

1963 

Married:  CHARLES  M.  BECK  II  to  Miss 
Charlotte  A.  Hastings  of  Topeka,  Kansas  on 
September  7,  1968.  Charlie  reports  that  he 
is  an  analytical  chemist  with  the  Depart- 
ment of  Water  Resources  of  the  State  of 
Maryland  and  that  he  resides  in  Annapolis, 
Maryland.  The  couple  has  one  son  John 
Charles  born  on  October  6,  1969.  .  . 
ROBERT  S.  MAGNANT  to  Miss  Rosemary 
Sullivan  of  Lowell,  Massachusetts  on  Janu- 
ary 2,  1971.  The  couple  is  residing  in 
Teheran,  Iran  where  Mr.  Magnant  is  on 
assignment  as  Senior  Engineer  for  the 
United  States  Army  STRATCOM  Field 
Office. 

Born:  Mr.  and  Mrs.  JOHN  H. 
GEFFKEN,  their  first  child,  a  daughter  on 
October  19,  1970.  John  is  a  Project  Engi- 
neer in  the  Materials  Handling  Systems 
Group  of  the  Westinghouse  Electrical  Cor- 
poration in  Buffalo.  He  is  President  of  the 
Niagara  Peninsula  Chapter  of  the  Alumni 
Association  and  the  couple  resides  in  Wil- 
liamsville.  New  York.  .  .  DR.  and  Mrs. 
HARRY  A.  HOYEN,  JR.,  a  son,  Andrew 
Thomas,  on  November  5,  1970.  Harry  is  not 
only  a  doctor  of  Engineering  but  also  a 
"medical"  doctor  as  he  delivered  the  baby 
at  home.  Aside  from  delivering  babies, 
Harry  is  a  Senior  Research  Scientist  with  the 
Eastman  Kodak  Company  in  Rochester, 
New  York. 

THOMAS  M.  DONEGAN  is  Financial 
Analyst  with  Trans  World  Airlines,  Inc.  and 
is  located  in  New  York  City.  .  .  Corning 
Glass  Works  has  announced  that  RICHARD 
A.  GARVAIS  has  been  appointed  Plant 
Manufacturing  Engineer  at  Coming's  Green- 
ville, Ohio  Plant.  Rick  joined  Corning  in 
1967  as  a  Process  Engineer  and  since  1968 
has  been  Supervisor  of  Process  Engineering 
in  Corning,  New  York.  .  .  ALLEN  H. 
HOFFMAN,  who  is  an  Assistant  Professor 
of  Mechanical  Engineering  at  WPI,  received 
his  PhD  from  the  University  of  Colorado  on 
December  21 ,  1970.  Al  also  continues  to  be 
active  athletically  and  was  a  participant  in 
the  1971  running  of  the  Boston  Mara- 
thon. .  .TIMOTHY  M.  SHEA  is  a  planning 
Engineer  with  Westinghouse  Electric  Inter- 
national, a  Division  of  Westinghouse  Electric 
Corporation  of  New  York  City. 

DR.  KENNETH  C.  BENTON  is  a  Group 
Leader  with  CPC  International.  Inc.,  of 
Argo,  Illinois.  .  .  PETER  A.  BIZZIGOTTI  is 
an  Assistant  Bridge  Engineer  with  the  State 
of  California,  Division  of  Highways  and  is 
presently  residing  in  Del  Mar,  California.  .  . 
MARCEL  H.  CLAVIEN  is  Sales  Manager  for 
Taft  Electrosystems  Inc.,  Metuchen,  New 
Jersey.  ..  JOSEPH  R.  deBEAUMONT  is 
with  the  IBM  Corporation  in  San  Jose, 
California  as  a  Senior  Associate  Engineer.  .  . 
Phoenix,      Arizona      is      the      location      of 


46 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


CHARLES  D.  EALAND  who  is  a  Flight 
Instructor  with  Sawyer  Aviation.  .  .  DR. 
DANIEL  J.  PENDER  is  now  located  in 
Gardner,  Massachusetts  and  is  associated 
with  Heywood  Memorial  Hospital  there.  .  . 
ALAN  E.  SCHERER  reports  that  he  was 
recently  assigned  as  the  Reactor  Engineering 
Project  Engineer  for  the  Fort  Calhoun  Nu- 
clear Power  Plant  in  Omaha,  Nebraska.  He  is 
employed  by  Combustion  Engineering  Inc. 
of  Windsor,  Connecticut. 

1964 

DR.  BRUCE  S.  MACCABEE  reports 
that  he  received  a  PhD  from  American 
University  in  August  1970.  ..  ERNEST  B. 
MERCER,  JR.  is  an  Electronic  Engineer 
with  the  Federal  Aviation  Administration  in 
Atlantic  City,  New  Jersey.  He  is  a  resident 
of  Northfield,  New  Jersey.  .  .  MARIO  M. 
TAMA,  JR.  is  located  in  Vermont  where  he 
is  an  Engineer  with  Poma  Aerial  Tramways, 
Inc.  of  Woodstock,  Vermont  and  is  a  resi- 
dent of  North  Pomfret,  Vermont.  .  .  CARL 
M.  YOUNGMAN  was  recently  honored  by 
being  selected  Manager  of  the  Year  for  the 
Boston  area  of  the  Boston  Chapter,  Society 
for  the  Advancement  of  Management.  Carl 
is  employed  by  Honeywell,  Inc.  of  Newton 
as  Director  of  Planning  and  Development, 
Division  of  Field  Engineering.  .  . 

Married:  THOMAS  J.  MODZELEWSKI 
to  Miss  Arlene  Frances  Flynn  of  Yonkers, 
New  York  on  April  17,  1971.  Tom  is  a 
resident  engineer  with  Leeds  &  Northrup 
Co.  and  is  currently  located  in  Louisville, 
Kentucky. 

Married:  DENNIS  W.  BALOG  to  Miss 
Sally  A.  Lampropoulos  of  Ipswich,  Massa- 
chusetts on  May  7,  1971 .  Dennis  is  Manager 
of  the  lamp  development  engineering  de- 
partment of  Sylvania  Electric  Products,  Inc. 
of  Salem,  Massachusetts.  The  couple  is 
residing   in   North   Andover,   Massachusetts. 

ROBERT  B.  BRIDGMAN,  who  is  em- 
ployed as  an  engineer  by  the  Boeing  Com- 
pany of  Seattle,  Washington,  is  a  resident  of 
Kent,  Washington.  .  .  Maryland  is  the  loca- 
tion of  DR.  WARREN  J.  ERESIAN,  JR.  He 
is  a  physicist  in  the  Applied  Physics  Lab.  of 
John  Hopkins  University  in  Silver  Spring, 
Maryland  and  he  is  a  resident  of  Glenelg, 
Maryland.  .  .  DONALD  A.  GHIZ  has  left  the 
Agrico  Chemical  Company  of  Carteret,  New 
Jersey  and  is  now  employed  as  a  Chemical 
Plant  Superintendent  with  the  National 
Lead  Company  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah.  .  . 
RICHARD  H.  RYCZEK  was  recently  certi- 
fied as  a  Professional  Engineer  in  the  State 
of  New  York.  Dick  is  employed  by  the 
Niagara  Mohawk  Power  Company  in  Albany 
and  is  a  resident  of  Niskayuna,  New 
York.  .  .  STANLEY  SZYMANSKI  continues 
to  be  employed  as  a  Sales  Engineer  for 
Hooker  Chemical  Corporation  and  is  resid- 
ing in  Golden  Valley,  Minnesota.  .  .  PAUL 
B.  WATSON  wrote  in  May  that  he  had  been 
promoted  to  the  rank  of  Captain  in  the  US 

THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Air  Force  and  that  he  was  rated  as  an 
instructor  pilot  on  the  C-141  jet  transport. 
He  is  based  at  Dover  Air  Force  Base,  Dover, 
Delaware. 

1965 

Married:  HAROLD  R.  CONNELL  to 
Miss  Maxine  Ann  Ashley  of  Swansea  on 
April  17,  1971.  Harold  is  a  member  of  the 
Planning  Board  of  the  Town  of  Fall  River, 
Massachusetts  where  the  couple  also  resides. 

Married:  JOHN  T.  HART  to  Miss 
Andrea  S.  Holland  of  Waltham,  Massa- 
chusetts on  March  27,  1971.  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Hart  are  both  employed  by  the  Medical 
Electronics  Division  of  the  Hewlett  Packard 
Company  in  Waltham,  Massachusetts  and 
they  are  residing  in  Burlington,  Massa- 
chusetts. 

Born:  Mr.  and  Mrs.  HENRY  J. 
SKONIECZNY,  a  son,  Stephen  Paul,  on 
October  15,  1970.  Mr.  Skonieczny,  who 
received  a  MS  degree  in  Mechanical  Engi- 
neering from  RPI  in  1968,  is  a  Senior  Test 
Engineer  at  the  Fafnir  Bearing  Company  in 
New  Britain,  Connecticut.  The  couple  re- 
sides in  Plainville,  Connecticut. 

Born:  Mr.  and  Mrs.  PHILIP  I. 
BACHELDER,  their  third  son  in  July  of 
1970.  Phil  reports  that  he's  working  part- 
time  toward  a  master's  degree  in  Manage- 
ment Science  at  RPI  and  that  he  was  was 
promoted  to  Manager  of  Process  Develop- 
ment Engineering  at  Scott  Graphics,  Inc.  of 
Holyoke,  Massachusetts. 

ROBERT  W.  ASPLUND  is  a  senior 
electronic  engineer  with  the  Sylvania  Divi- 
sion of  General  Telephone  and  Electronics 
in  Muncy,  Pennsylvania.  Bob  is  a  resident  of 
Williamsport,  Pennsylvania.  .  .  The  Com- 
monwealth of  Massachusetts,  Department  of 
Mental  Health  employs  JAMES  B.  CALVIN 
as  a  Special  Service  Assistant.  Jim  is  a 
resident  of  Plymouth,  Massachusetts.  .  . 
Hamilton  Standard  Division  of  United  Air- 
craft Corporation  employs  GEORGE  W. 
CORDES,  JR.  as  a  development  engineer  in 
Windsor  Locks,  Connecticut.  George  is  a 
resident  of  Westfield,  Massachusetts.  .  . 
ALBERT  L.  GIANNOTTI,  JR.  is  a  planning 
analyst  with  the  Babcock  and  Wilcox  Com- 
pany in  Barberton,  Ohio.  Al  is  a  resident  of 
Canton,  Ohio  and  is  a  recent  recipient  of  a 
MBA  degree  from  the  State  University  of 
New  York  at  Buffalo.  .  .  MORDECAI  GUT- 
MAN  has  received  his  discharge  from  US  Air 
Force  and  is  now  employed  in  Allen  Park, 
Michigan  as  a  Production  Supervisor  in  the 
Packaging  Area  of  Frito-Lay  Inc.  He  is  a 
resident  of  Southfield,  Michigan.  .  .  DR. 
DONALD  L.  KERR  reports  that  he  is 
employed  in  the  Research  Laboratories  of 
the  Eastman  Kodak  Company  in  Rochester 
since  the  fall  of  1969  and  that  the  couple's 
first  child,  a  daughter,  Elizabeth  Gail  was 
born  on  December  22,  1969.  .  .  Bell  Tele- 
phone Labs  continues  to  employ  HARRY 
A.    MILDONIAN,    JR.    as    a    member    of 


technical  staff  and  Harry  is  now  located  in 
North  Andover,  Massachusetts.  .  .  Agrico 
Chemical  Company,  division  of  Continental 
Oil  Company  of  Carteret,  New  Jersey,  con- 
tinues to  employ  WPI  graduate  as  their  plant 
manager.  JAMES  F.  MILLS  has  succeeded 
DONALD  GHIZ  in  that  position.  He  is  a 
resident  of  Woodbridge,  New  Jersey.  .  . 
RICHARD  M.  MURPHY,  who  is  an  Esti- 
mator for  the  Granger  Contracting  Com- 
pany, Inc.  of  Worcester,  is  now  a  resident  of 
Paxton,  Massachusetts.  .  .  After  receiving  a 
master's  degree  in  Physics  from  North- 
eastern University  in  1970,  S.  EDWARD 
NEISTER  has  moved  to  Wickenburg,  Ari- 
zona where  he  is  President  of  Phase-R 
Corporation.  .  .  JAMES  B.  NYSTROM  has 
received  a  PhD  degree  in  Mechanical  Engi- 
neering from  WPI.  ..  Providence,  Rhode 
Island  is  the  business  location  of  VIJAY  D. 
SHETH  where  he  is  employed  by  the 
General  Electric  Company.  Mr.  Sheth  is  a 
resident  of  Newtonville,  Mass.  .  .  DR.  WIL- 
LIAM P.  ZERONSA,  who  has  received  both 
a  Master's  and  a  Phd  degree  from  the 
University  of  Massachusetts,  is  a  staff  re- 
searcher for  Charles  Pfizer,  Inc.  in  Groton, 
Connecticut.  He  is  a  resident  of  Quaker  Hill, 
Connecticut. 

RICHARD  N.  BROWN  is  an  Engineer 
with  the  Naval  Underwater  System  Center 
at  Newport,  Rhode  Island.  .  .  CHARLES  H. 
DUFOUR  was  recently  promoted  to  the 
position  of  Assistant  to  the  Chief  Mechani- 
cal Engineer  for  the  Cottrell  Company, 
Westerly,  Rhode  Island.  ..  WILLIAM  F. 
HINES,  JR.  writes  that  he  graduated  from 
Wharton  Graduate  School  of  the  University 
of  Pennsylvania  with  an  MBA  in  1970  and 
that  since  then  he's  been  working  with  E.  I. 
dePont  deNemours  &  Company,  Inc.  in 
Wilmington,  Delaware  as  a  Technical  Rep- 
resentative. ..  JOHN  F.  KELLEY  III  is 
back  in  his  home  state  of  Maine  where  he  is 
an  Estimator-Project  Engineer  with  Stewart 
&  Williams,  Inc.  of  Augusta,  Maine.  .  .  An- 
other member  of  the  class  with  E.l.duPont 
&  deNemours  &  Company,  Inc.  is  JOHN  R. 
LEWIS.  He  is  a  Research  Chemist  in  Phila- 
delphia. .  .  RICHARD  W.  REYNOLDS  is  in 
Hawaii  where  he  is  at  the  University  of 
Hawaii  as  a  student  in  the  Department  of 
Oceanography.  .  .  RICHARD  K.  SEAVER 
is  a  Senior  Experimental  Engineer  with  the 
Hamilton  Standard  Division  of  the  United 
Aircraft  Corporation  in  Windsor  Locks, 
Connecticut. 

1966 

Army  1st  Lt.  PHILIP  S.  BLACKMAN  is 
currently  stationed  at  Fort  Riley,  Kan- 
sas. ..  GARNER  W.  DUVALL,  JR.  is  a 
Mechanical  Engineer  in  the  Design  and 
Construction  Division  of  the  General  Serv- 
ices Administration,  Washington, 
D.C.  .  .  DONALD  P.  GIVENS  has  received  a 
masters  degree  from  the  University  of  Mas- 
sachusetts and  has  accepted  a  position  with 
Envirotech  Corporation  of  Brisbane,  Califor- 


47 


nia...  .  DR.  MALCOLM  A.  MacGREGOR 
has  received  a  PhD  degree  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Connecticut  and  is  presently  a 
Research  Associate  in  the  Department  of 
Chemistry  at  the  University  of  Chicago.  .  . 
ERROLD  F.  MOODY,  JR.  is  in  El  Monte, 
California  where  he  is  a  Quality  Control 
Engineer  with  Ameron.  He  is  a  resident  of 
Pasadena.  .  .  JOHN  A.  STOCKHAUS  has  re- 
turned to  WPI  where  he  is  a  graduate 
student  in  the  Civil  Engineering  Dept.  under 
a  U.S.  Army  Grant. 


1966 

DENNIS  E.  APPLEYARD  has  received  a 
master  of  science  degree  in  Electrical  Engi- 
neering from  the  University  of  Colora- 
do. .  .  H.  JOHN  BRALEY  is  a  Lt.  in  the 
United  States  Air  Force  and  is  stationed 
with  the  Military  Airlift  Command  at  Scott 
Air  Force  Base,  Illinois.  Last  spring  he  was 
selected  as  Junior  Officer  of  the  Month  for 
services  with  the  air  command's  manage- 
ment office.  .  .  Raytheon  Company  employs 
JEFFREY  S.  CHEYNE  as  a  Logic  Design 
Engineer  in  Sudbury,  Mass.  Jeff  is  a  resident 
of  Mansfield,  Mass.  .  .  Located  out  on  the 
beautiful  coast  of  California  is  Naval  Lt. 
JAMES  A.  COCCI.  Jim  is  stationed  at  the 
U.S.  Naval  Postgraduate  School  at  Mon- 
terey, California.  .  .  General  Electric  Com- 
pany employs  WILLIAM  V.  COLLENTRO 
as  a  Chemical  Engineer  at  their  Knolls 
Atomic  Power  Lab  in  Windsor,  Connecticut. 
Bill  is  a  resident  of  Bloomfield,  Connecti- 
cut. .  .  Air  Force  Capt.  ROBERT  B. 
DOLAN  is  stationed  at  Wright-Patterson 
AFB,  Ohio.  .  .  DR.  RONALD  D.  FINN,  who 
received  a  PhD  degree  from  Virginia  Poly- 
technic Institute  in  1970,  is  a  Research 
Associate  with  the  U.S.  Government  Atomic 
Energy  Commission,  Brookhaven  National 
Laboratory,  in  Upton,  Long  Island,  New 
York.  .  .  PETER  GRAY  IV  is  an  Assistant 
Engineer  with  the  N.Y.  Telephone  Company 
and  works  and  resides  in  Poughkeepsie,  New 
York.  .  .  IZUMI  IKETANI,  MS,  is  an  In- 
formation Officer  of  Civil  Engineering  with 
the  Japan  Information  Center  of  Science 
and  Technology,  Tokyo,  Japan  where  he 
also  resides.  .  .  James  Hunter  Machine  Com- 
pany of  North  Adams,  Massachusetts  em- 
ploys DAVID  L.  JORCZAK,  MS,  as  a 
Project  Engineer.  ..  JOHN  J.  LENART  is 
residing  in  Reston,  Virginia,  and  is  a  Pro- 
grammer and  Data  Analyst  with  the  U.S. 
Coast  Guard,  National  Oceanic  &  Atmos- 
pheric Administration,  Test  &  Evaluation 
Lab  in  Sterling,  Virginia.  .  .  We  have  learned 
that  CHING  SOO  LIU,  MS,  continues  to  be 
employed  by  the  Charles  T.  Main  Company, 
Inc.  of  Boston,  Massachusetts  as  a  Structural 
Engineer.  ..  RICHARD  B.  NELSON  is  a 
graduate  student  at  the  University  of  Okla- 
homa and  at  the  same  time  is  self-employed 
as   a    Petroleum    Field    Engineer    .  .  .  South 


Bend,  Indiana  is  the  new  location  of  PAUL  F. 
PETERSON,  where  he  is  a  senior  systems 
programmer  with  Associate  Mkt.  &  Computer 
Services  Company,  Inc.  .  .  EARL  A.  SCOTT 
continues  to  be  employed  by  the  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft  Division  of  the  United 
Aircraft  Corporation  in  West  Palm  Beach, 
Florida,  where  he  is  a  Senior  Analytical 
Engineer.  .  .  We  have  learned  that  Stone  & 
Webster  Engineering  Corporation  of  Boston, 
Massachusetts  employs  LAURENCE  E. 
SHEA  as  a  Field  Engineer  and  Larry  is 
located  in  Oswego,  New  York.  .  .  Norden 
Division  of  the  United  Aircraft  Corporation 
employs  CHARLES  C.  SLAMA  as  an  engi- 
neer in  Norwalk,  Connecticut,  where  he  is 
also  a  resident.  .  .  JESSE  R.  STALKER,  JR. 
is  an  Engineer  in  the  Compounder  Develop- 
ment Department  of  the  Goodyear  Tire  & 
Rubber  Company  operation  in  Windsor, 
Vermont.  Jesse  resides  in  West  Lebanon, 
New  Hampshire.  .  .  An  Environmental  Engi- 
neer with  the  Stone  &  Webster  Engineering 
Corporation  of  Boston,  Massachusetts,  is 
LEONARD  J.  WECKEL.  Lennie  resides  in 
Winchester,  Massachusetts.  .  .  ROBERT  C. 
ZAHNKE  is  in  the  Syracuse,  New  York  area 
where  he  is  a  Project  Engineer  with  Allied 
Chemical  Corporation  in  the  Solvay  Process 
Division.  .  .  DONALD  H.  FOLEY  recently 
received  a  PhD  degree  in  Electrical  Engi- 
neering from  Syracuse  University. 

1967 

CLINTON  A.  INGLEE  is  a  Sales  Engi- 
neer with  the  Torrington  Company  in  Phila- 
delphia, Pennsylvania  and  he  is  a  resident  of 
Willingboro,  New  Jersey.  .  .  Lt.  RENE  B. 
LAPIERRE  is  a  Navigator  in  the  U.S.  Air 
Force  and  is  stationed  at  Mather  AFB, 
California.  .  .  An  Associate  Scientist  with 
the  Polaroid  Corporation  in  Cambridge, 
Massachusetts  is  ROBERT  H.  LORING.  .  . 
Consolidated  Edison  of  New  York  has 
named  STEPHEN  B.  STATZ  to  a  position  as 
Project  Engineer.  Steve  is  a  resident  of 
Valley  Stream,  New  York. 

Born:  Mr.  and  Mrs.  SUDHIR  A.  SHAH 
on  January  8,  1970  a  daughter,  Julie.  Mr. 
Shah  is  a  Project  Engineer  with  the  James  P. 
Purcell  Associates  of  Hartford,  Connecticut. 

MARCEL  R.  BENJAMIN,  SIM,  is  Man- 
ager of  Management  Training  and  Develop- 
ment for  the  American  Optical  Company  of 
Southbridge,  Massachusetts.  .  .  EARL  D. 
BERRY,  SIM,  has  been  named  Assistant 
Treasurer  of  Woodbury  &  Co.,  Inc.  of 
Worcester.  .  .  Loctite  Corp.  of  Newington, 
Connecticut  employs  EDWARD  J.  BOT- 
WICK  as  a  Process  Development  Engineer 
and  he  is  a  resident  of  West  Hartford.  .  . 
Continuing  his  education  at  the  University 
of  Connecticut  is  ALAN  C.  BOULEY.  Alan 
is  a  graduate  research  assistant  in  the  De- 
partment of  Physics.  .  .  FRANCIS  A.  GAY 
is  a  member  of  the  Technical  Staff  of  Bell 
Telephone    Labs    in    Naperville,    Illinois.  .  . 


Back  at  WPI  following  his  discharge  from 
the  service  is  RICHARD  C.  HOLLER.  Dick 
is  a  graduate  in  the  Computer  Science 
Department.  .  .  Another  member  of  the 
class  who  is  with  the  Bell  Telephone  Labs  in 
Naperville,  Illinois  is  ALAN  H.  MILLER.  .  . 
ROBERT  D.  RENN  is  an  Industrial  Engi- 
neer with  the  General  Dynamics  Corpora- 
tion in  Quincy,  Massachusetts.  .  .  Another 
member  of  the  class  pursuing  an  advanced 
degree  is  KENNETH  H.  REX.  Kennie  is  a 
student  in  the  Physics  Department  at 
RPI.  .  .  Army  1st  Lt.  THOMAS  A.  RICCHI 
received  the  Army's  Bronze  Star  Medal  in 
Vietnam  on  February  18.  He  received  the 
award  while  assigned  as  commanding  officer 
of  the  heavy  cable  construction  detachment, 
U.S.  Army  Strategic  Communications  Com- 
mand near  Phu  Bai,  Vietnam.  Prior  to 
entering  the  Service  Tom  was  with  the 
General  Electric  Company.  .  .  An  instructor 
in  the  Business  Division  at  Mt.  Wachusett 
Community  College,  Gardner,  Massachusetts 
is  RAYMOND  C.  ROGERS.  Ray  resides  in 
Winchendon,  Massachusetts.  .  .  Northeast 
Utilities  Service  Company  of  Meriden,  Con- 
necticut employs  PETER  G.  SHANLEY  as 
an  Assistant  Engineer  in  the  Mechanical  & 
Nuclear  Engineering  Department.  He  is  As- 
sistant Project  Engineer  on  the  company's 
largest  nuclear  power  plant,  Millstone  Unit 
No.  2.  ..CHARLES  M.  WOJEWODA  is 
with  the  Monsanto  Chemical  Corporation  in 
Springfield,  Massachusetts  as  a  Process  Engi- 
neer. Charlie  is  residing  in  Ludlow,  Massa- 
chusetts. 

1968 

Married:  JOHN  H.  HOLMES  to  Miss 
Margaret  Chang,  of  Saugus,  Mass.,  on  April 
18,  1970.  Jack  is  a  teacher  at  Eastern  Jr. 
High  School,  in  Lynn,  Mass.  and  is  a 
resident  of  Concord,  Mass.  .  .  JOHN  J. 
KRASKA,  JR.  to  Miss  Christine  L. 
Hryniewicz,  of  Millbury,  Mass.,  on  October 
11,  1970.  John  is  Manager  of  Kraska  Cor- 
poration, of  Worcester,  and  the  couple  is 
residing  in  Worcester.  .  .  MICHAEL  T. 
NOWAK  to  Miss  Sheila  M.  Clark,  of  New 
Haven,  Connecticut,  on  February  20,  1971. 

Born:  to  Lt.  and  Mrs.  DANIEL  C. 
CREAMER,  a  daughter  Jennifer  Anne,  on 
October  18,  1970.  Lt.  CREAMER  is  a 
Guided  Missile  Maintenance  Officer  with  the 
U.S.  Army  and  is  stationed  in  Giessen, 
Germany. 

Army  First  Lieutenant  ROBERT  E. 
ANDERSON  is  stationed  in  Sinop,  Turkey. 
Bob  recently  received  the  Army's  Merito- 
rious Service  Medal  for  "exceptionally  meri- 
torious service  as  commanding  officer  of  the 
U.S.  Logistics  Group,  169th  Detachment 
near  Sinop,  Turkey.".  .  .  ALAN  R.  BERG  is 
a  member  of  the  U.S.  Air  Force  and  is 
stationed  in  Manila,  Philippines.  .  .  GALO 
O.  CASCANTE-LOPEZ,  MS,  is  located  in 
Quito,  Ecuador,  South  America  where  he  is 
employed  in  the  Integration  Division  of  the 


48 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Industrial  Development  Center.  .  . 

EDWARD  M.  CHAUSZ  continues  to  be 
employed  by  E.  I.  duPont  de  Nemours  & 
Company,  Inc.  and  is  presently  located  in 
Deepwater,  New  Jersey.  .  .  KENNETH  A. 
CRAWFORD  is  employed  in  Circuit  Design 
by  the  Cogar  Corp.  of  Wappingers  Falls, 
New  York  where  he  is  also  a  resident.  .  . 
ERIC  K.  DURLING  has  been  promoted  to 
the  rank  of  Captain  in  the  U.S.  Army.  .  . 
FEREYDOON  FAMILY  is  back  in  Worces- 
ter where  he  is  a  graduate  student  at  Clark 
University.  .  .  Army  Captain  ROBERT  J. 
GALLO  recently  completed  an  engineer 
officer  construction  planning  course  at  Fort 
Belvoir,  Virginia  and  is  slated  for  a  tour  of 
duty  in  Vietnam.  .  .  Raytheon  Company  of 
Waltham,  Mass.  employs  MICHAEL  T. 
GLYNN  as  a  Quality  Control  Engineer. 
Mike  lives  in  Watertown,  Mass.  .  .  DAVID  H. 
HALL  is  Activity  Civil  Engineer  with  the 
U.S.  Naval  Reserve  Public  Works  Center  in 
Pensacola,  Florida.  .  .  DAVID  A.  HOPKIN- 
SON  is  working  in  Indian  Orchard,  Mass.  as 
a  Research  Engineer  with  the  Monsanto 
Company. 

ROBERT  V.  GENEREUX  is  a  Sales 
Services  Engineer  with  AMF,  CUNO  Divi- 
sion of  Meriden,  Conn.  Vinney  resides  in 
New  Britain.  .  .  CHARLES  D.  KONOPKA  is 
an  instructor  in  the  Math  Department  at  the 
University  of  Hartford,  Connecticut.  .  . 
JOHN  J.  KORZICK  is  a  Field  Engineer  with 
Cincinnati  Milacron  in  Arlington  Heights, 
Illinois.  .  .  JOSEPH  C.  NAPPI  is  a  graduate 
student  at  RPI  at  Troy,  New  York.  .  . 
SCOTT  W.  RAMSAY  has  been  named  As- 
sistant Power  Engineer  at  the  United  Illumi- 
nating Company  in  New  Haven,  Connecti- 
cut. ..  DANIEL  R.  ROY  continues  to  be 
employed  by  the  General  Electric  Company 
of  Lynn,  Massachusetts  and  is  presently  a 
Product  Design  Engineer.  .  .  Engineer  with 
E.  I.  DuPont  deNemours  &  Company  in 
Wilmington,  Delware  is  STEPHEN  C. 
SCHWARM.  .  .  GREGORY  H.  SOVAS  is 
currently  on  a  leave  of  absence  from  the 
New  York  State  Department  of  Environ- 
mental Conservation  while  he  is  a  graduate 
student  at  the  University  of  Massachusetts. 
He  expects  to  receive  his  MS  degree  in 
Environmental  Engineering  in  September, 
1971.  .  .  LEO  T.  SPRECHER  is  a  computer 
analyst  with  the  Computer  Sciences  Corpo- 
ration of  Moorestown,  New  Jersey. 

Born:  Mr.  and  Mrs.  JOHN  H.  McCABE, 
a  son,  Jason  Roe  on  April  29,  1971 .  Jack  is 
now  employed  by  Hammond  Plastics,  Inc. 
of  Worcester,  Massachusetts. 

Married:  DAVID  J.  GUMBLEY  to  Miss 
Mary  E.  Harold  of  Milford,  Connecticut  on 
May  1,  1971.  Dave  is  employed  by  the 
Campennella  Corporation  of  Warwick, 
Rhode  Island.  .  .  CHARLES  T.  KLEMAN 
has  received  an  MS  degree  in  Physics  from 
Michigan  State  University  and  is  employed 
by  the  U.S.  Government  at  the  Naval 
Weapons    Laboratory    in    Dahlgren,    Virgin- 

HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


ia...  RAYMOND  C.  LUNDGREN,  JR.  is 
Vice  President  &  Superintendent  of  The 
Henley-Lundgren  Company  of  Shrewsbury, 
Massachusetts.  Ray  is  currently  residing  in 
Buzzards  Bay,  Mass.  ..  WILLIAM  J. 
MCCARTHY  is  an  Actuarial  Associate  at 
State  Mutual  Life  Assurance  Company  of 
America,  in  Worcester.  ..  JOHN  E.  MER- 
RITT  is  a  PFC  in  the  U.S.  Army.  .  . 
DOUGLAS  A.  MURRAY  is  a  Microwave 
Design  Engineer  for  the  Raytheon  Com- 
pany's Missile  Systems  Division,  in  Andover, 
Massachusetts.  .  .  Becton,  Dickinson  &  Com- 
pany of  East  Rutherford,  New  Jersey  em- 
ploys FRANCIS  J.  POSSELT,  JR.  as  an 
Engineer.  ..  RICHARD  H.  SEYMOUR  is 
Chief  Engineer  at  the  Presmet  Corporation 
of  Worcester,  Massachusetts  and  he  is  a 
resident  of  Charlton,  Massachusetts. 

PAUL  F.  STASKO  is  a  General  Engineer 
at  the  Portsmouth  Naval  Shipyard,  Ports- 
mouth, New  Hampshire. 


1969 

Married:  STEPHEN  D.  COPE,  JR.  to 
Miss  Geraldine  A.  Hanney  of  Palmer,  Massa- 
chusetts on  January  16,  1971.  Steve  is 
employed  as  a  Field  Supervisor  by  the 
General  Electric  Company  and  is  presently 
awaiting  an  overseas  assignment.  The  couple 
is  making  their  home  in  Sunbury,  Pennsyl- 
vania. .  .  Air  Force  Lieutenant  DOUGLAS 
A.  NELSON  to  Miss  Marilea  G.  Robbins,  of 
Milford,  on  February  27,  1971.  Doug  is  a 
pilot  in  the  Air  Force  and  is  currently 
stationed  at  George  Air  Force  Base, 
California. 

ALFRED  A.  ALICANDRO  SIM  is  Presi- 
dent of  Entec  Plastic  &  Engineering  Corpo- 
ration of  Leominster,  Massachusetts.  .  . 
Army  1st  Lt.  FRANCIS  P.  ARCHAM- 
BEAULT  is  currently  stationed  in  Vietnam. 
On  March  15  Lieutenant  Archambeault  re- 
ceived his  second  award  of  the  Army  Com- 
mendation Medal.  .  .  Port  Arthur,  Texas  is 
the  location  of  JOSEPH  E.  FITZGERALD, 
JR.  Joe  is  an  Environmental  Engineer  with 
the  Gulf  Oil  Company.  ..  CHARLES  E. 
FORD,  JR.  is  employed  in  Field  Service 
work  with  the  Bailey  Meter  Company  and  is 
presently  residing  in  Euclid,  Ohio.  .  . 
JAMES  T.  HEINRICH  is  a  Field  Engineer 
with  the  Elliott  Company  in  Chicago,  Illi- 
nois. .  .  DAVID  E.  JERVIS  is  an  Electrical 
Engineer  for  the  Raytheon  Company  in 
Wayland,  Mass.  and  is  a  resident  of  Framing- 
ham,  Massachusetts.  ..  CHARLES  A. 
KALAUSKAS  is  presently  serving  with  the 
U.S.  Army  at  Fort  Stewart,  Georgia  while 
waiting  for  an  assignment  to  Vietnam.  .  . 
Another  of  the  class  in  the  Army  is  MARK 
H.  LePAIN.  He  is  currently  stationed  at 
Fort  Bliss,  Texas.  He  entered  the  Army  in 
October,  1970.  ..A  graduate  student  at 
MIT  is  RICHARD  H.  McCUE,  JR.  .  .  Alan 
M.  Voorhees  &  Associates  of  McLean,  Vir- 
ginia  Employs   EDWARD  A.  MIERZEJEW- 


SKI  as  an  Engineer/Planner.  Ed  recently 
received  a  master's  degree  from  MIT  and  he 
is  presently  living  in  Alexandria,  Virginia.  .  . 
Stationed  at  Fort  Benning,  Georgia,  with 
the  U.S.  Army  is  ROGER  W.  MILES... 
Xerox  Corporation  employs  JAMES  B. 
MYERS  as  an  Associate  Engineer  in  Web- 
ster, N.Y.  .  .  JAMES  V.  ROSSI  is  presently 
employed  in  Florida  by  the  Pratt  &  Whitney 
Aircraft  Division,  UAC  Corporation,  at  their 
Florida  Research  and  Development  Center 
in  West  Palm  Beach.  He  is  a  Facility  Design 
Engineer.  .  .  MARK  S.  SIMPSON  is  em- 
ployed as  an  Engineer  by  E.  I.  DuPont 
deNemours  &  Company,  Inc.  at  their  Jack- 
son Labs,  Chambers  Works,  in  Deepwater, 
New  Jersey.  .  .  Army  PFC  JOHN  S.  STAR- 
SIAK  is  currently  stationed  in  Vietnam. 

RONALD  L.  JONES  is  a  Development 
Engineer  with  Kelly  Springfield  Tire  Com- 
pany Division  of  Goodyear  Tire  &  Rubber 
Company  in  Fayetteville,  North  Caro- 
lina. .  .  PHILIP  M.  KAZEMERSKY  is  a  grad- 
uate student  at  Ohio  State  University  where 
he  received  a  MS  degree  in  1970.  .  .  KRIS  L. 
NELSON  is  a  private  in  the  U.S.  Army.  .  . 
GREGORY  E.  POLLOCK  has  received  a 
MBA  in  Marketing  from  C.W.  Post  College. 
Greg  is  a  resident  of  Carle  Place,  New 
York.  .  .  RAYMOND  B.  STANLEY  is  an 
engineer  with  Western  Electric  Company  in 
Winston-Salem,  North  Carolina.  .  .  Another 
member  of  the  class  with  the  Western 
Electric  Company  is  DAVID  W.  SWENSON. 
He  is  in  North  Andover,  Massachusetts  and 
is  an  Information  Systems  Engineer. 

Married:  KENNETH  B.  BERUBE  to 
Miss  Margaret  Ann  Withey  of  Middletown, 
Connecticut  on  April  24,  1971.  Ken  is  an 
engineering  supervisor  at  the  Worcester 
Works  division  of  United  States  Steel  Corpo- 
ration. The  couple  is  residing  in  Millbury, 
Massachusetts.  ..  Also  on  April  24,  1971 
CHESTER  D.  BLACKMAN,  JR.  married 
Miss  Diane  K.  Dembkoski  of  Charlton, 
Massachusetts.  He  is  a  candidate  for  a 
masters  degree  in  Metallurgy  at  RPI.  .  . 
ALVIN  B.  PAULY  to  Miss  Mary  Lynn 
Wilson  of  Reidsvill,  North  Carolina  on  May 
1,  1971.  Mr.  Pauly  is  a  Project  Engineer 
with  Westvaco  Corporation  of  Luke,  Mary- 
land and  the  couple  is  residing  in  Western- 
port,  Maryland. 

BRIAN  T.  ABRAHAM  is  a  1st  Lt.  with 
the  U.S.  Army  in  Vietnam.  .  .  KENNETH  C. 
AMEND  is  a  2nd  Lt.  with  the  U.S.  Air 
Force  in  Charleston,  S.C.  .  .  JAMES  P. 
ATKINSON,  a  preventive  medicine  special- 
ist in  the  U.S.  Army,  has  been  promoted  to 
Specialist  5.  .  .  ARTHUR  H.  EVANS,  III,  is 
a  sales  engineer  with  Goulds  Pumps,  Inc.,  in 
Natick,  Mass.  .  .  JAMES  W.  FOLEY  received 
his  MS  in  systems  engineering  last  June  from 
Case-Western  Reserve  University,  where  he 
is  continuing  his  studies  for  the  PhD.  James 
and  his  wife  Ella  Mae  had  a  daughter,  Aileen 
Ann,  last  October.  .  .2nd   Lt.  ALFRED  G. 


49 


FREEBERG  (USAF)  has  earned  the  silver 
wings  of  a  navigator.  .  .  JAMES  W.  HAURY 
is  now  assistant  to  the  superintendent  of  the 
roll  shop  at  Farrel  Co.,  division  of  USM 
Corp.  ..  WILLIAM  E.  HALLOCK  is  con- 
struction and  maintenance  supervisor  for 
Shell  Oil  in  Wellesley,  Mass.  .  .  JEFFREY  C. 
KNAPP  received  an  MS  in  business  adminis- 
tration from  the  University  of  New  Hamp- 
shire. .  .  EDWARD  A.  MIERZEJEWSKI  is 
now  a  traffic  operations  engineer  with  Alan 
M.  Voorhees  &  Associates  in  McLean, 
Va.  .  .  GORDON  R.  MILLER  was  promoted 
to  captain  in  the  U.S.  Army  while  serving  in 
Vietnam.  .  .  JOHN  J.  PACE  is  general  man- 
ager of  Lakeside  Heat  Treating  Company  in 
Solon,  Ohio.  .  .  RONALD  ROBERTS  and 
his  wife  Linda  had  their  first  son,  Jason 
Michael,  in  April.  Ron  is  employed  as  a 
development  engineer  with  Western  Electric 
in  No.  Andover,  Mass.  ..  JOHN  F. 
POBLOCKI  is  presently  on  leave  of  absence 
from  Metcalf  &  Eddy,  Inc.,  while  studying 
for  a  master's  degree  in  community  planning 
at  the  University  of  Rhode  Island.  .  . 
RICHARD  P.  ROMEO  was  awarded  an 
MBA  from  Dartmouth  College  in  June,  .  . 
KENT  F.  ROTHAMMER  is  a  technical 
service  chemist  with  National  Starch  & 
Chemical  Corp.  in  Chicago.  .  .  Air  Force  2nd 
Lt.  EARL  M.  SPINKS  has  graduated  from 
pilot  school,  and  has  been  assigned  to 
McCord  AFB,  Wash.,  where  he  will  fly  the 
C— 141  Starlifter  cargo-troop  carrier  with 
the  Military  Airlift  Command.  .  .  HENRY  S. 
SWEET  has  recently  been  promoted  to  1st 
Lt.  He  is  battalion  adjutant  and  public 
information  officer  with  the  65th  artillery, 
U.S.  Army  Defense  Command,  in  Key  West, 
Fla.  ..THOMAS  F.  TAYLOR  is  due  to 
graduate  from  Army  OCS  at  Fort  Sill,  Okla., 
in  November. 

Married:  STEPHEN  D.  FISCHER,  to 
Cheryl  L.  Molyn,  in  Enfield,  Conn.,  on  May 
22.  The  bride  is  a  graduate  of  Becker  Junior 
College.  Mr.  Fischer  is  employed  as  a  prod- 
uct support  manager  at  Hewlett-Packard.  .  . 
STEVEN  A.  HUNTER,  to  Martha  J.  Fuller, 
on  August  14  in  Worcester.  The  groom  is  an 
ME  graduate  student  at  WPI.  .  .  DUNCAN 
R.  LOOM  IS,  to  Diane  Irene  Holly,  at  a 
double-ring  ceremony  in  Mystic,  Conn.,  on 
May  22.  Loomis  works  at  United  Illuminat- 
ing Company. 


MORGAN 
CONSTRUCTION  CO, 

ENGINEERS  &  MANUFACTURERS 
WORCESTER,  MASSACHUSETTS  D1GD5 


1970 

MICHAEL  E.  ARSLAN  writes  he  is  a 
manufacturing  management  program  trainee 
with  General  Electric.  ..  GREGORY  W. 
BACKSTROM,  son  of  Carl  W.  Backstrom, 
'30,  is  an  associate  quality  control  engineer 
with  Xerox  Corp.  .  .  JOSEPH  BECHER  III  is 
now    farming     in     South     Paris,    Maine.  .  . 


RICHARD  E.  BERGERON  is  a  naval  en- 
sign. .  .  MARK  E.  BROWN  has  been  award- 
ed a  National  Science  Foundation  graduate 
traineeship  at  the  University  of  Minneso- 
ta. .  .  Ens.  PAUL  F.  DRESSER  is  in  training 
to  become  a  Navy  jet  pilot.  .  .  PAUL  D. 
HIMOTTU  is  an  associate  engineer  with 
Raytheon  Company.  .  .  PAUL  E. 

MEDEIROS  is  a  junior  engineer  with  the 
N.Y.  State  Dept.  of  Transportation  in 
Poughkeepsie.  .  .  GEORGE  P.  MOORE  is  a 
law  student  at  Suffolk  Univ.  .  .  BRUCE  E. 
SAMUELSON  is  a  sales  engineer  with  R.B. 
Taylor  Corp.,  Albany,  N.Y.  .  .  BOHDAN 
SYWAK  is  a  mechanical  engineer  with  the 
Ammunition  Development  &  Engineering 
Laboratories  of  the  U.S.  Army  Munitions 
Command  in  Philadelphia.  .  . 

Married:  2nd  Lt.  TERRENCE  F. 
BULGER,  and  Jean  Marie  Pietrzak  of 
Worcester,  on  July  10,  1971.  Lt.  Bulger  is 
stationed  with  the  Army  in  Newport  News, 
Va.  .  .  DENNIS  F.  DAMICO  and  Maryanne 
C.  Burak,  married  on  June  12  in  Worcester. 
Damico  is  a  graduate  student  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Illinois.  .  .  EDWARD  VINCENT 
JALOWIEC  and  Louise  Sargent,  in  Worces- 
ter, on  July  10.  Mr.  Jalowiec  is  employed  by 
American  Optical  Co.  in  Southbridge,  Mass. 
.  .  .  ROBERT  R.  MATTSON  and  Jean  Kelly, 
on  May  1  5,  1971 ,  in  Holden,  Mass.  Mattson 
is  a  products  engineer  for  Wyman-Gordon 
Co.  and  a  WPI  graduate  student.  .  .  JOHN  A. 
PELLI,  engaged  to  Marcia  Karen  Mitchell  of 
Cranston,  R.I.  An  October  wedding  is 
planned.  Pelli  is  a  dealer  consultant  for  the 
Trance  Company,  LaCrosse,  Wis.  ..  PHILIP 
C.  RADER  and  Marlene  M.  Serrell,  on  May 
1,  1971.  Rader  is  employed  by  Combustion 
Engineering,  Inc.,  of  Windsor,  Conn.  .  . 
RICHARD  B.  ROCK  and  Eileen  M. 
O'Brien,  on  June  19.  Rock  is  a  project 
engineer  for  United  Engineers  &  Con- 
structors, Inc.,  and  a  graduate  student  at 
Drexel  University  in  Philadelphia.  .  . 
RANDOLPH  J.  SABLICH  and  Marie 
Brozoski  on  May  23.  He  works  for  Grum- 
man Aerospace  Corp.  on  Long  Island. 


Air  Force  2nd  Lt.  FRANCIS  L. 
BELISLE,  JR.,  MS  is  stationed  at  Eglin  AFB, 
Florida.  .  .  ANDREW  J.  GIOKAS  is  a  2nd 
Lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Army.  .  .  FRED  H. 
TUTTLE,  JR.  is  a  Production  Supervisor 
with  Charles  Pfizer  &  Company  of  Groton, 
Connecticut.  ..  JAMES  H.  VERGOW  is  a 
member  of  the  U.S.  Air  Force  and  is 
stationed  at  Keesler  AFB,  Mississippi. 

Married:  Army  2nd  Lt.  ROBERT  C. 
COURNOYER  to  Miss  Diane  C.  Ravenelle 
of  Nashua,  New  Hampshire  on  March  12, 
1971.  Bob  is  currently  stationed  at  Fort 
Devens,  Massachusetts.  ..  STEPHEN  E. 
BERNACKI  to  Miss  Karen  E.  Jessie  of 
Worcester,  Massachusetts  on  April  25,  1971. 
The  couple  is  residing  in  Worcester.  .  .  Army 
2nd  Lt.  PHILIP  C.  RADER  to  Miss  Marlene 
M.  Serrell  of  Turners  Falls,  Massachusetts  on 
May  1,  1971.  Phil  is  a  Chemical  Engineer 
with  Combustion  Engineering,  Inc.  in  Wind- 
sor Locks,  Connecticut.  .  .  Army  Lt. 
MICHARL  E.  SANTOM  to  Miss  Cristine  M. 
Girard  of  Worcester,  Massachusetts  on  May 
8,  1971.  Mike  is  currently  stationed  at  Ft. 
Leonard  Wood,  Missouri. 

Married:  DAVID  R.  BROWN  to  Miss 
Ann  M.  Bundeff,  of  Worcester,  Mass.  on 
February  14,  1971.  Dave  is  employed  by 
the  Rodney  Hunt  Company  of  Orange, 
Massachusetts  as  a  Project  Engineer  and  the 
couple  is  residing  in  Spencer,  Massachu- 
setts. ..  WILLIAM  G.  HILLNER  to  Miss 
Helen  Lee  Thomas,  of  Rushville,  Missouri, 
October  10,  1970.  Bill  has  completed  a 
training  program  with  The  Trane  Company, 
in  LaCrosse,  Wisconsin,  and  is  now  located 
in  Boston  as  a  Sales  Engineer.  The  couple  is 
residing  in  Needham  Heights,  Massachu- 
setts. ..  CHARLES  E.  BASNER  is  a  High- 
way Engineer  Trainee  with  the  Federal 
Government's  Department  of  Transporta- 
tion in  Washington,  DC.  .  .  A  Development 
Engineer  with  the  Universal  Oil  Products 
Company  of  McCook,  Illinois,  is  BRAD- 
FORD L.  BJORKLUND.  .  .  Located  in 
Bloomfield,  Connecticut  is  JOHN  T.  BOK, 
where  he  is  an  industrial  Engineer  with  the 


50 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Allen  Mfg.  Company.  .  .  EDWARD  J. 
BOROWIEC  is  an  Ensign  in  the  U.S. 
Navy.  .  .  KENNETH  G.  CRAM  is  a  Pvt.  in 
the  U.S.  Army  and  is  stationed  at  Fort 
Knox,  Kentucky.  .  .  Pratt  &  Whitney  Air- 
craft Division  of  United  Aircraft  Corp. 
employs  JOHN  P.  DEMASE,  as  an  Experi- 
mental Engineer  in  East  Hartford,  Conn, 
where  he  resides.  Early  in  1971  PETER  J. 
DENONCOURT  was  commissioned  an  en- 
sign in  the  U.S.  Coast  Guard.  .  .  DWIGHT  S. 
DICKERMAN  is  an  Engineer  with  the  Linde 
Division  of  the  Union  Carbide  Corporation 
in  Tonawanda,  New  York.  .  .  Located  at 
WPI's  Alden  Research  Labs  as  a  graduate 
student   is    ROBERT  A.  DiDOMENICO.  .  . 

Six  members  of  the  class  in  the  U.S.  Army 
are:  JEFFREY  A.  FREELAND  A  PFC 
stationed  at  Redstone  Arsenal,  Alabama; 
2nd  LT.  MARK  W.  GEMBORYS  stationed 
at  Fort  Benning,  Georgia;  EDWARD  E. 
HOWE  a  Communications  Officer  in 
Europe;  2nd  Lt.  WILLIAM  M.  ROLYA 
stationed  at  Fort  Knox,  Kentucky;  SP  4 
ROBERT  W.  SOFFEL  a  Quartermaster  In- 
structor at  Fort  Lee,  Virginia;  and  2nd  Lt. 
PHILIP  C.  WARREN,  Platoon  Leader  sta- 
tioned in  Europe.  .  .  A  member  of  the  U.S. 
Navy  is  RICHARD  H.  SOMERS,  who  is  with 
the  Naval  Ship  Engineering  Center  at  Hy- 
attsville,  Maryland.  .  .  ROBERT  J.  GOOD- 
NESS is  an  Industrial  Engineer  with  the 
Plymouth  Rubber  Company,  of  Canton, 
Mass.  ..  WILLIAM     B.    HEALD    is    an    En- 


vironmental Analyst  with  the  Scientific  Co. 
Inc.  of  Windsor,  Connecticut.  .  .  THOMAS 
D.  HEINOLD  is  a  Manufacturing  Engineer 
with  the  Heald  Machine  Division  of  Cin- 
cinnati Milacron,  in  Worcester.  .  .  Another 
graduate  student  is  LEE  C.  MALBON  who  is 
in  the  Physics  Department  at  Boston  College 
as  a  graduate  assistant.  .  .  A  Marketing  Rep- 
resentative for  the  IBM  Corporation  in 
Waltham,  Massachusetts,  is  ALAN  H.  MIL- 
LER. .  .  A  Structural  Designer  for  the  B&M 
Corporation  of  Boston,  Mass.  is  VINAY  V. 
MUDHOLKAR.  He  is  a  resident  of  Somer- 
ville,  Massachusetts.  .  .  Employed  by  Ebasco 
Services,  Inc.,  at  the  Nuclear  Power  Plant  in 
Vernon,  Vermont,  as  an  Electrical  Inspector 
is  CHESTER  J.  NAPIKOSKI.  He  is  a  resi- 
dent of  Millers  Falls,  Massachusetts.  .  . 
Procter  and  Gamble  Company  employs  W. 
STUART  NICKERSON  in  Quincy,  Massa- 
chusetts as  a  Bar  Soap  Supervisor.  .  . 
WILLIAM  D.  PARENT  is  a  Teaching  Assist- 
ant at  the  University  of  California's  Santa 
Barbara  campus.  .  .  ALAN  S.  PRUCNAL  is 
in  Boston  where  he  is  employed  as  a 
Sanitary  Engineer  by  Camp,  Dresser  & 
McKee.  ..JOHN  K.  REDMON,  MS,  is 
located  in  Allentown,  Pennsylvania  where 
he  is  Education  Administrator  with  the 
Pennsylvania  Power  &  Light  Company.  .  . 
JOHN  J.  RING,  JR.  is  a  Process  Control 
Specialist  with  the  General  Electric  Com- 
pany in  Schenectady,  New  York.  .  .  Turner 
Construction  Company  of  New  York 
employs    JOSEPH    W.    SHAW.    Joe    is    cur- 


rently residing  in  Glendale  Heights,  Illi- 
nois. .  .  Another  member  of  the  class  who  is 
continuing  his  education  is  FRANCIS  A. 
VERNILE.  He  is  a  graduate  student  at  the 
University  of  Connecticut. 


1971 

THOMAS  J.  D'ANDREA  is  a  2nd  Lt.  in 
the  U.S.  Army  and  is  stationed  at  Ft.  Bliss, 
Texas.  ..  RONALD  K.  VANDER  KRUIK, 
MS  is  a  Microwave  Design  Engineer  with  the 
Raytheon  Company  in  Wayland,  Massa- 
chusetts. 

JOSEPH  B.  CARTER  is  a  student  at  the 
University  of  Minnesota  Medical  School.  .  . 
ERNEST  A.  EVANCIC,  MS  '71,  is  manager 
of  product  development  for  Simonds  Saw  & 
Steel  in  Fitchburg,  Mass.  .  .  BRUCE  A. 
HILLSON  is  an  assistant  engineer  for  the 
State  of  Maine  Highway  Commission.  .  . 
DONALD  M.  JOHNSON  is  an  industrial 
engineer  at  Cranston  Print  Works,  Webster, 
Mass.  .  .  JOSEPH  BARRY  KAYE  is  a  grad- 
uate student  at  Springfield  (Mass.)  Col- 
lege. .  .  ELAINE  S.  KOWALEWSKI,  MS  '71, 
is  a  visiting  instructor  in  the  Math  department 
at  WPI.  .  .  DOUGLAS  W.  KULLMAN  is  now 
employed  as  an  engineer  in  training  by  the 
department  of  Highways  of  the  State  of 
Ohio.  .  .  JOSEPH  E.  LAPTEWICZ,  JR.,  is  a 
graduate  fellow  at  Cornell  University.  .  . 
MICHAEL  S.  LATKA  is  an  assistant  engi- 
neer with  the  Factory  Insurance  Association 
in   Boston.  .  .  TOH-MING   LU,  MS  '71,  is  a 


Creative  Engineering  =  Precision    +    Productivity 


For  the  manufacturer  who  needs  a  machine 
for  long  or  short  runs,  for  sequential  or 
simultaneous  operations,  for  fast  setups,  low 
tooling  costs,  high  precision,  high  produc- 
tion and  extreme  versatility,  the  Heald 
Model  422A  NC  Borematic  fills  the  bill. 

It  was  designed  that  way  .  .  .  to  satisfy  all 
those  requirements.  Heald's  imaginative 
engineers  created  this  machine  to  do  a  wide 
range  of  things  well.  They  designed  it  to 
operate  by  numerical  control  for  speed, 
quality  assurance  and  flexibility. 

This  is  another  case  where  Heald  creative 
engineering,  combined  with  the  finest  preci- 
sion components  available,  has  solved  some 
of  the  more  complex  machining  problems  of 
manufacturers  the  world  over. 

The  422A  NC  offers  a  breakthrough  wher- 
ever a  variety  of  parts  are  to  be  machined. 

For  ingenuity  in  solving  all  kinds  of  machin- 
ing problems,  it  pays  to  come  to  Heald, 
where  metalworking  needs  meet  new  ideas! 


c 


CINCINNATI 
MILACRON 

Cincinnati  Milacron-Heald  Corp. 
Worcester,  Mass.  01606 


IE  WPI  JOURNAL 


51 


grad  student  in  physics  at  the  University  of 
Wisconsin.  ..  1st  Lt.  THEODORE  E. 
LYNCH,  MS  '71 ,  has  begun  a  five-year  tour 
of  duty  with  the  Air  Force.  He  will  work  in 
nuclear  research  in  New  Mexico.  .  . 
THOMAS  F.  MIRARCHI  is  working  with 
Goodyear  Tire  &  Rubber  in  Akron.  .  . 
JAMES  P.  MURPHY  is  with  Improved 
Machinery  Corp.  in  Nashua,  N.H.  .  . 
EUGENE  PETTINELLI  holds  a  teaching 
assistantship  and  grant  from  the  University 
of  California,  Berkeley,  where  he  is  studying 
for  a  master's  degree.  .  .  LAWRENCE  E. 
RAINVILLE  is  with  Raytheon  Company 
.  .  .  DONALD  P.  ST.  MARIE  is  sports  infor- 
mation director  at  WPI  this  year.  .  . 
RAYMOND  L.  SKOWYRA  is  a  field  engi- 
neer, installation  &  service  eng.  dept., 
General  Electric  Co.,  in  Schenectady, 
N.Y.  .  .  CHARLES  A.  SUMNER  is  a  design 
engineer  with  Newport  News  Shipbuilding  & 
Dry  Dock  Co.,  Va.  .  .  THOMAS  C.  HOWES, 
JR.,  works  for  Mohawk  Data  Sciences  in 
East  Herkimer,  N.Y.,  as  an  associate  engi- 
neer. .  .  PAUL  J.  TRUDEAU  is  in  a  training 
program  with  Stone  &  Webster  Engineering 
Corp.  in  Boston.  .  .  DAVID  TRUE  works 
for  New  England  Power  Co.  in  Somerset, 
Mass.  .  .  MICHAEL  J.  WINN  is  inn  manager 
for  John  Murphy,  Wellfleet,  Mass. 

Married:    RICHARD    A.    ARENA    and 
Carol  Anne  Halkerston,  on  June  13.  He  is  an 


engineer  for  Beacon  Construction  Co.  in 
Boston  .  .  ROBERT  ALTON  ANDERSON 
and  Beth  Edith  Parmenter.on  July  10.  He  is 
a  student  enrolled  at  the  University  of 
Connecticut  Graduate  School  of  Engineer- 
ing. .  .  THOMAS  R.  COPP  and  Mary  Jane 
Plank  of  Catskill,  N.Y.,  on  June  19,  1971. 
Copp  works  for  Surprenant,  Inc.,  of  Jaffrey, 
N.H.  .  .  ARTHUR  A.  JACKMAN  and  Jane  V. 
Giombetti  of  Ashland,  Mass.,  on  June  19. 
Jackman  is  teaching  mathematics  at  Norton 
(Mass.)  Junior-Senior  H.S.  ..  PHILIP  M. 
JOHNSON  and  Linda  Arline  Schmidtchen, 
on  July  10.  THOMAS  R.  COPP  was  best 
man,  and  ushers  included  NORMAN  W. 
SOUSA,  GERALD  GRISWALD,  RICHARD 
DYNIA,  and  FRANCIS  SCRILLO.  .  . 
Kathryn  Ann  Snyder  and  ALAN  JAY 
KAECHELE,  on  June  18  in  Bridgeport, 
Conn.  Both  bride  and  groom  are  employed 
by  the  Travelers  Insurance  Co.  .  .  JOHN  L. 
LANDALL  and  Nancy  Ruth  Martin,  on 
June  19  in  Worcester.  Among  the  ushers 
were  WILLIAM  MEDEIROS  and  BRUCE 
HILLSON.  Landall,  commissioned  a  2nd  Lt. 
in  the  U.S.  Army,  is  serving  with  the  Civil 
Engineers  Corps  in  Waltham,  Mass.  .  . 
BRUCE  E.  LEFFINGWELLand  Karen  Jean 
Nichols,  in  Waterbury,  Conn,  on  June  19. 
Mr.  Leffingwell  is  employed  as  a  salesman 
by  North  American  Urethanes.  .  .  PAUL  J. 
PAKUS    and    Dorothy   Carlson   of   Clinton, 


Mass.,  on  June  27.  .  .  JOHN  H.  READ  and 
Nancy  Jean  Gates,  on  June  26.  John  is  a 
grad  student  at  WPI  this  fall.  .  .  KENNETH 
ROBERTS  and  Diane  Wheeler  in  August. 
Wheeler  is  a  2nd  Lt.  with  the  Army  at  Fort 
Benning,  Ga.  ..  LAWRENCE  SNIEGOSKI 
and  Jean  Marie  Desjardins,  on  June  19.  The 
couple  is  now  living  in  Madison,  Wis.  .  . 
THORNTON  H.  WAITE,  MS  '71,  and 
Christine  Francis,  on  June  12.  Waite,  son  of 
Roger  T.  Waite,  '23,  is  doing  graduate  work 
in  nuclear  engineering  at  Cornell  Univer- 
sity. .  .  THOMAS  J.  WERB  and  Marsha 
Louise  Brown,  on  August  7. 


Class  of  1930 

The  Class  of  1930  has 
started  to  build  its  50th  year 
anniversary  gift.  As  a  starter 
we  hope  to  generate  $10,000 
or  more  prior  to  the  solicita- 
tion program  at  the  time  of 
our  50th  Reunion  in  1980.  So 
far  we  have  heard  from  the 
following: 

Backstrom,  Bowers,  Carl- 
son, Center,  Conley,  Cole,  Del- 
ano, Doyle,  Fay,  Goodnow, 
Hall,  Hathaway,  Hillis,  LeBos- 
quet,  Locke,  Luoma,  Marsaw, 
Marston,  O'Grady,  Peters,  Pur- 
cell,  Seal,  Tawter,  Wells,  Whit- 
tum. 

Why  not  send  in  your 
check  now  to  the  class  secre- 
tary-treasurer? 

Charlie  Fay,  President 
Gene  Center,  Vice  President 
Carl  Backstrom,  Secretary- 
Treasurer 


The 

Tech  Chair  . 

Perhaps  you  cant  endmv  one  .  . 
But  you  certainly  can  own  one  . . 

No.  341  214 
COLLEGE  SIDE  CHAIR 

Scat  to  top  of  back:  20" 
Price:  $29.00 


No.  183  214 
COLLEGE  BOSTON  ROCKER 

Scat  tn  tup  nf  back:  27  '■/' 
Price:  $36.00 


No.  342  214 
COLLEGE  ARM  CHAIR 

Scat  to  top  of  back:  21" 
Price:  $43.00     (Black  Arms) 

No.  342  218 
Price:  $44.00     (Cherry   Anno) 


Send  vour  remittance  anil  m.ikr  checks  payable  In 

\\  .P.I.    HiiukMurr 

Massachusetts  residents  add  3°,;  sales  tax. 
\ll  chairs  shipped  F.O.B.,  Gardner,  Mass. 


52 


THE  WPI  JOURNAl 


New  kind  of  group  insurance 
for  cleaning  room  profits 


You  don't  join  this  lively  group. 
You  depend  on  it  for  insurance  of  new 
capabilities  and  new  ways  to  cut  costs 
and  boost  productivity  in  your  key  cost 
center  — the  cleaning  room. 

It's  the  new  Norton  Foundry 
Products  Group.  A  heads-up  team  of 
20  technical  and  marketing  men  with 
plenty  of  savvy  about  foundries'  real 
snagging  needs. 

The  group  delves  deeply  into 
things  like  basic  research,  grinding  wheel 
design,  development,  cleaning  systems, 


manufacturing  and  marketing. 

This  task  force  has  as  its  aim 
advanced  grinding  wheels  and 
automated  equipment  that  assure  you 
the  lowest  total  cost  on  every  cleaning 
and  snagging  operation. 

The  group  also  has  some  mighty 
profitable  ideas  for  you  on  ways  to 


improve  cleaning  room  procedures. 

The  total  capabilities  of  this  new 
dynamic  group  are  yours  from  Norton  . . . 
Problem  Solvers  for  the  Foundry  Industry. 
The  company  that  innovated  the  first 
foundry-designed  snagging  wheel  — ZF, 
and  designed  the  first  automatic  floor 
stand  fixturing  device—  GATOR-MATIC. 

So,  if  you  have  the  kind  of 
problems  that  call  for  the  coverage  this 
group  plan  provides,  we'll  be  in  touch! 
Norton  Company,  Grinding  Wheel 
Division,  Worcester,  Massachusetts  0 1 606. 


NORTON 


GRINDIN6  I/I/HEEL  DMS/O/V 


Ability  and  performance  beyond  the 
ordinary.  Pacesetter.  Innovator.  Natural 
leader.  If  the  name  of  the  game  is  forging, 
the  superstar  is  Wyman-Gordon  E3 

Wyman-Gordon  Company.  Worcester.  Mass      •     Chicago.  Oetroit.  Daylon.  Los  Angeles.  Fori  Worth.  Seattle.  Bombay.  Geneva 


journal 


Vol.  75,  no.  2 
December,  1971 


In  This  Issue 


Athletics  at  WPI page  two 

In  which   Roger  Perry,  '45,  tells  a  bit  of  the  history  of  athletics  and  physical  education  at 
WPI. 


And  Now  —  A  Word  from  Our  Director         page  six 

Robert  W.  Pritchard,  Director  of  Physical  Education  and  Athletics,  explains  the  current  role 
of  sport  at  WPI  and  under  the  Plan. 


H.  Russell  Kay 

Editor 

Published  for  the  Alumni  Association 
by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 

Copyright©  1971  by 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 
All  rights  reserved. 


WPI  Alumni   Association   Officers 

President: 

I.  J.  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44 

Vice  Presidents: 

[B.  E.  Hosmer,  '61 

W.  J.  Bank,  '46 

Secretary-  Treasurer: 
S.J.  Hebert, '66 

Past  President: 
R.  E.  Higgs, '40 

Executive  Committee, 

Members -at- Large: 

C.   C.    Bonin,  '38;    F.   S.    Harvey,   '37; 

C.  W.  Backstrom,  '30;  L.  Polizzotto,  '70 

Fund  Board: 

G.  F.  Crowther,  '37;  A.  Kalenian,  '33; 

R.  F.  Burke,  Jr.,  '38;  L.  A.  Penoncello, 

i  '66;  W.J.  Charow, '49;  H.  I.  Nelson, '54 

Alumni  Office  Staff: 

Director,  Alumni-Development  Records 

and  Services:  Norma  F.  Larson 
Fund  Secretary:  Stephanie  A.  Beland 
Records  Secretary:  Helen  J.  Winter 
Secretary:  Dorothy  Y.  Gurney 
Journal  Secretary:  Ruth  Trask 


WHO? page  eight 

A  brief  look  at  the  members  of  the  physical  education  faculty. 

The  View  From  Down  Here  page  thirteen 

Alan  Dion,  '72,  offers  a  student  opinion  on  the  situation. 

Feedback       . page  thirty-three 

Remember  that  Letters  column  we  promised  you?  Here  is  the  first  installment. 


DEPARTMENTS 

Varsity  Review  14 

Campus  Notes  16 

Reunion  Roundup  17 

Completed  Careers         18 

Your  Class  and  Others         22 


The  WPI  Journal  is  published  five  times  a  year 
in  October,  December,  February,  April,  August. 
Entered  as  second  class  matter  July  26,  1918, 
|:at  the  Post  Office,  Worcester,  Massachusetts, 
under  the  act  of  March  3,  1879.  Subscription 
two  dollars  per  year.  Postmaster:  Please  send 
form  3579  to  Alumni  Association,  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester,  Mass.  01609. 


r  !  WPI  JOURNAL 


Athletics  at  W PI 


by  Roger  N.  Perry,  Jr.,  '45 


■  t's  quite  probable  that  under  your  chair  is  attached  a 
white  tag  bearing  the  threatening  message,  "Do  not  remove 
this  tag  under  penalty  of  law."  In  line  with  trends  in 
government  warnings,  they  might  add  to  that  message, 
"Caution:  Too  much  sitting  in  this  chair  may  be  hazardous 
to  your  health." 

No  less  an  authority  than  the  noted  heart  specialist  Dr. 
Paul  Dudley  White  has  been  quoted  as  saying,  "Don't  sit  on 
your  fatty  acids."  Dr.  White  advocates  regular  exercise  and 
moderation  in  eating  as  the  key  to  a  long,  productive  life. 

Because  the  sedentary  life  is  taking  such  a  toll  in  human 
lives  each  year,  the  athletic  and  physical  education  program 
at  WPI  must  be  considered  not  a  frill  of  higher  education 
but  rather  a  universally  needed  preparation  for  life, 
whatever  the  graduate  chooses  as  a  professional  career. 

When  the  late  Percy  R.  Carpenter  was  appointed  WPI's 
first  director  of  physical  education  and  athletics  in  1916,  he 
established  the  guidelines  which  are  still  followed  by  the 
department.  He  firmly  believed  that  a  man  needed  both  a 
good  mind  and  a  healthy  body.  While  the  rest  of  the  faculty 
developed  the  minds,  he  practically  singlehandedly  devel- 
oped the  physical  education  program.  His  recommendation 
that  physical  education  be  required  of  all  students  for  four 
terms  was  approved  and  this  is  still  the  case  today.  During 
the  frequently  lean  years  when  the  administration  looked 
toward  the  gymnasium  as  an  opportunity  for  further 
budget  paring,  he  was  successfully  able  to  defend  his 
beliefs. 

Under  "Doc"  Carpenter  and  his  only  successor,  Prof. 
Robert  W.  Pritchard,  WPI  has  developed  an  athletic  and 
physical  education  program  which  is  equaled  by  few 
colleges  of  WPI's  size  —  or  even  much  larger  institutions. 

Emphasis  in  the  program  has  changed  over  the  years.  In 
"Doc"  Carpenter's  time,  physical  education  frequently 
involved     calisthenics,    bar    bells    and    gymnastics.    Under 

Roger  Ferry  is  Director  of  Public  Relations  at  WIM.  A  self-described 

non-athlcie,  he  says.  "The  fact  that  I  was  able  to  be  part  of  the  WPI 
swimming  team  for  two  years  as  an  undergraduate  is  a  true 
indication  that  the  WPI  athletic  program  has  something  to  offer 
every  student." 


Coach  Pritchard  and  his  staff,  the  emphasis  is  on  teaching 
the  basic  skills  in  athletics  and  developing  in  the  student  an 
interest  in  sports  he  can  enjoy  throughout  life.  WPI  today 
fields  teams  in  ten  varsity  sports  and  six  club  sports.  But  its 
real  claim  to  fame  is  the  breadth  of  the  department's 
activities  which  offer  something  for  the  entire  student 
body. 

Athletics  at  WPI  are  almost  as  old  as  the  college  itself. 
In  the  late  Herbert  Taylor's  book  Seventy  Years  of  the 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  he  mentions  that  in  1870 
the  students  organized  a  baseball  and  a  football  team.  He 
also  mentions  that  the  administration  gave  no  support  to 
athletic  activities.  In  the  1880's,  students  built  their  own 
gym  in  a  grove  of  trees  behind  the  Washburn  Shops.  With 
the  official  attitude  one  of  toleration  rather  than  encour- 
agement, it  fell  to  the  students  and  the  young  alumni 
organization  to  develop  an  athletic  program.  The  first 
permanent  Athletic  Association  was  formed  in  1894.  Track 
was  the  sport  in  which  WPI  teams  did  best  in  those  early 
days.  An  annual  field  day  on  a  student-built  field  now  the 
site  of  a  parking  lot  on  Boynton  Street  was  one  of  the 
highlights  of  the  year. 

Among  the  athletes  of  that  period  were  Charles 
Harrington,  '95,  and  his  brother  Frank,  '98.  Both  were 
track  men  and  Charles  also  played  football.  In  later  years, 
they  often  recalled  to  the  athletic  staff  the  times  they 
cleared  rocks  from  the  student-created  field  so  the  game 
could  begin.  Their  interest  in  the  WPI  athletic  program 
never  flagged  and  in  1968,  their  desire  to  do  something  for 
WPI  athletics  took  the  form  of  the  gift  to  the  college  of  the 
Harrington  Auditorium. 

Another  alumnus  of  the  same  period,  George  C. 
Gordon,  '96,  had  two  favorite  recollections  of  his  under- 
graduate days:  one  was  the  kindness  of  Prof.  Leonard  P. 
Kinnicutt  to  him  on  several  occasions,  and  the  other  was  his 
experience  as  manager  of  the  baseball  team.  He  took  over  a 
deficit  ridden  team  and  finished  the  year  in  the  black.  His 
undergraduate  business  experience  was  a  fine  preparation 
for  his  future  career  in  the  forging  industry,  for  at  his  death 
in  1964,  he  left  his  alma  mater  $5  million.  The  baseball 
learn  is  still  solvent  so  the  funds  were  used,  in  part,  to  build 


the    library    which    bears    his    name    and    to    endow    the 
Kinnicutt  professorship. 

It  was  through  the  efforts  of  students  and  alumni  that 
Alumni  Field  was  built  in  1914  and  Alumni  Gymnasium 
begun  the  following  year.  President  Ira  Hollis,  who  took 
office  in  1913,  was  the  first  to  lend  official  support  to  WPI 
athletics  and  in  hiring  Doc  Carpenter  as  the  first  director  of 
physical  education  he  started  a  new  era  in  WPI  athletics. 

President  Ralph  Earle,  quoted  in  Mildred  Tymeson's 
Two  Towers,  said  "Your  physical  health  is  a  precious 
thing  —  guard  it  well.  The  athletic  team,  varsity  or  class,  is 
well  worth  all  the  time  you  can  give  it.  We  emphasize  sports 
here  and  urge  you  to  take  your  full  measure  of  it." 

The  turnabout  in  official  support  has  paid  off  by  giving 
WPI  one  of  the  finest  physical  education  programs  any- 
where. 

During  the  planning  which  resulted  in  the  development 
of  the  WPI  Plan,  each  campus  department  was  carefully 
scrutinized  to  determine  how  it  measured  up  to  its 
objectives,  and  what  changes  might  be  required  to  shift  over 
to  the  operation  of  WPI  under  the  Plan.  The  one  which  was 
found  to  have  its  program  for  the  Plan  already  in  operation 
was  the  Physical  Education  and  Athletics  Department. 

It's  worth  noting  that  although  courses  under  the  WPI 
Plan  are  all  considered  to  be  elective,  one  program  is  still 
required  of  all  students  for  four  terms.  .  .  physical  educa- 
tion. 

Coach  Pritchard  always  has  a  few  minutes  to  discuss  the 
WPI  physical  education  program  with  athletic  directors 
from  other  colleges  for  he  believes  that  although  Colleges 
may  compete  on  the  playing  fields,  the  coaches  are  all 
working  toward  the  same  goals  for  their  students. 

Andy  Laska,  Athletic  Director  at  Assumption  College, 
expressed  an  off-campus  professional  view  of  the  WPI 
program.  "I  grew  up  in  Tech's  neighborhood  and  was  even 
one  of  those  obnoxious  little  kids  who  sneak  into  the 
football  games  and  slide  down  the  grassy  slopes.  But  from 
those  early  days  and  later  in  my  21  years  of  involvement  in 
athletics  at  Holy  Cross  and  Assumption,  I've  developed  a 
great  respect  for  the  WPI  athletic  program.  It  is  geared  to 
the  entire  student  body,  for  the  real  athletes  and  for  the 
kids  who  just  want  to  have  the  fun  of  playing.  Although  at 
Assumption  we  don't  enjoy  the  scope  of  athletic  facilities 
which  WPI  has,  I'm  trying  to  pattern  our  physical  education 
program  after  Tech's,  with  its  emphasis  on  serving  the 
entire  college  through  physical  education,  intramural  sports 
j  and  intercollegiate  athletics.  As  Assumption  grows,  we'll 
have  the  athletic  plan  to  grow  with  it,  thanks  to  the  fine 
counsel  and  cooperation  I've  always  enjoyed  when  working 
with  Bob  Pritchard  and  his  staff." 

With  the  completion  of  the  Harrington  Auditorium,  the 
department  has  had  the  facilities  to  implement  a  long- 
desired  extension  of  the  skills  taught  into  the  so-called 
lifetime  sports.  Students  now  learn  the  fundmentals  of  golf, 
bowling,  handball,  squash,  tennis,  badminton  and  other 
sports   they   can   play   the   rest  of  their  lives.   In  a  25  th 


reunion  survey  of  the  Class  of  1945,  over  40%  reported  that 
golf  was  their  major  spare  time  activity  with  skiing  a  close 
second.  About  20%  played  tennis  regularly.  Instruction  in 
these  sports  was  something  they  all  had  to  acquire  outside 
of  the  college  physical  education  curriculum.  Not  so  today. 

A  typical  student  reaction  came  from  Harvey  Neilson, 
'74,  who  said  that  he  had  never  played  squash  before 
learning  the  game  in  a  gym  class.  "Now  I  play  as  often  as  I 
can  and  I'm  sure  it's  something  I'll  do  long  after  I've 
graduated."  Harvey's  real  body  building  passion  is  his 
ten-speed  bicycle  which  takes  him  everywhere.  During  the 
summer,  he  rode  over  2000  miles.  Since  school  opened,  he's 
added  a  few  hundred  more  miles,  mostly  on  weekends.  He's 
taken  part  in  a  13  mile  road  race,  finishing  seventh  against 
some  old  pros  on  the  circuit.  How  fast  does  he  travel? 
Harvey  travels  home  to  Leominster  frequently  by  bike 
covering  the  22  miles  in  about  55  minutes. 

Bicycles  are  making  a  comeback  on  campus  and  it's  not 
uncommon  to  see  several  chained  to  a  railing  outside  a  WPI 
building.  Perhaps  today's  students  have  been  inspired  by 
the  feat  of  Edward  R.  Delano,  '30,  who  rode  3200  miles  in 
35  days  from  his  home  in  California  to  his  40th  reunion  in 
1970.  Perhaps  it's  a  concern  for  air  pollution  which  has 
made  bicycles  fashionable  again.  It's  a  fact  that  cycle  shops 
are  unable  to  meet  demand  in  many  areas. 


It  was  Doc  Carpenter  who  insisted  on  faculty  status  for 
his  professional  staff.  Their  primary  function  was  and  still  is 
the  instruction  of  classes  in  physical  education.  Each 
member  of  the  staff  has  expertise  in  coaching  a  particular 
varsity  sport  but  unlike  college  coaches  who  work  under 
contract,  they  aren't  faced  with  relocation  nightmares 
during  a  losing  season.  Winning  is  always  sweet  but  without 
the  pressure  of  having  to  win  to  survive,  they  are  never 
tempted  to  put  their  own  professional  reputations  ahead  of 
the  interest  of  any  player  on  the  squad. 

WPI  coaches  all  suffer  from  one  handicap  which  is  not 
shared  by  most  of  their  counterparts  in  the  intercollegiate 
coaching  fraternity.  That  is  the  limited  amount  of  daily 
practice  time.  With  classes  and  laboratories  scheduled  until 
4:05,  it's  at  least  4:30  before  practice  sessions  really  get 
underway.  All  WPI  athletes  carry  the  same  demanding 
course  loads  of  their  fellow  students.  They  must  maintain 
their  grades  to  remain  on  the  teams. 

"Our  athletes  learn  one  important  skill,  whatever  their 
sport,"  says  Coach  Pritchard.  "They  learn  to  budget  their 
time.  Participation  in  athletics  doesn't  seem  to  affect  grades 
adversely.  In  fact,  over  the  years  we've  compared  the  grades 
of  all  students  with  those  on  our  various  teams  and  we  find 
that  as  a  group,  athletes  are  usually  a  few  percentage  points 
higher  than  the  school  average." 

WPI  has  had  its  share  of  great  athletes.  Harry  L. 
Dadmun,  '91,  established  WPI  records  in  every  running 
event  up  to  two  miles,  many  of  which  stood  unchallenged 
for  more  than  40  years.  He  achieved  national  prominence  in 
1890  when  he  won  the  national  half-mile  championship  in 
Washington.  The  following  summer,  he  toured  Europe  with 
a  group  of  U.S.  college  athletes,  winning  the  French 
National  800-meter  run. 


Richard  L.  Keith,  '14,  set  WPI  record  in  winning  the 
New  England  mile  title  in  1911  which  lasted  55  years 
before  being  broken  by  Cary  Palulis,  '68.  In  more  recent 
times,  Sid  Stayman,  '44,  set  a  college  record  of  9.9  seconds 
in  the  100-yard  dash  which  was  unchallenged  for  30  years 
until  tied  by  Tom  Fieldsend,  '74.  Some  other  long  standing 
school  records  still  stand.  For  example,  the  22  2V-i'  long 
jump  of  Al  DeLoid,  '49,  and  the  220-yard  record  of  21.6 
seconds  set  by  Edwin  Hatch,  '37,  have  not  been  equalled. 

WPI  has  had  two  undefeated  football  seasons,  1938  and 
1954.  They  also  played  one  entire  season  without  scoring  a 
point.  .  .  1941.  Soccer  enjoyed  undefeated  seasons  in  1938, 
and  1965.  Three  WPI  soccer  players  have  made  All-Ameri- 
can  —  Swang  Lee-Aphon  in  1960,  Ed  Cannon  (now  coach 
at  Worcester  Academy)  in  1966-67  and  Lionel  St.  Victor  in 
1970. 

There  have  been  several  undefeated  golf  and  track 
seasons. 

Although  a  college's  success  in  athletics  is  all  too  often 
measured  by  "How  did  the  football  team  do?",  it's  only 
fair  to  look  at  the  entire  spectrum.  In  1970-71,  WPI  varsity 
teams  won  63%  of  all  their  contests. 

WPI  teams  may  never  make  nationwide  headlines  for 
their  success  in  post-season  bowl  games,  but  how  many 
colleges  can  boast  that  one  student  in  five  is  a  member  of  a 
varsity  team? 

The  athletic  program  at  WPI  is  not  limited  to  students. 
Faculty  and  staff  are  also  encouraged  to  use  the  gymnasium 
facilities.  For  several  years,  the  department  has  reserved 
time  during  the  week  when  the  gyms  are  available  for 
faculty  to  work  out.  The  program  is  sometimes  referred  to 
as  the  "Faculty  Fat  Boys  Club"  by  those  who  are  trying  to 
stay  in  shape.  During  the  winter,  Saturday  mornings  at  the 


THE  WPI  JOURNAI  ^ 


swimming  pool  are  reserved  for  faculty  family  swimming. 
The  bowling  alleys  schedule  league  play  not  only  for 
students  but  for  teams  from  the  faculty  and  staff.  The 
Buildings  and  Grounds  department  league  is  one  of  the 
most  active.  There's  even  a  sauna  bath. 

A  few  of  the  faculty  and  staff  are  engaged  in  the 
particularly  active  life  in  their  spare  time. 

Dr.  Alan  Hoffman,  '63,  who  was  captain  of  the 
undefeated  1963  track  team,  hasn't  hung  up  his  track  shoes 
yet.  Last  spring,  WPI's  speedy  mechanical  engineering 
professor  competed  in  the  gruelling  26  mile  Boston 
Marathon  and  finished  the  course. 

Professor  Philip  Stevenson,  chemistry,  climbs  moun- 
tains. His  wife  shares  the  interest  in  the  sport  but  watched 
from  the  base  camp  while  he  climbed  the  Grand  Teton  in 
1969  on  the  last  day  of  their  honeymoon.  Phil  is  the 
faculty  advisor  of  the  recently  formed  WP1  Outing  Club. 

E.  Penn  Estabrook,  assistant  director  of  admissions,  is  a 
devotee  of  white  water  kayaking.  Wearing  a  warm  wet  suit, 
he  pursues  his  sport  even  in  February.  "A  lot  of. brandy 
helps,"  says  Penn  about  kayaking  in  winter.  He  placed  first 
in  his  class  in  two  major  events  last  summer  and  took  third 
in  another. 

Professor  Frank  DeFalco,  civil  engineering,  won  the 
Baghdad  doubles  tennis  championship  in  1969  while 
studying  in  Iraq  under  a  Fulbright  Scholarship. 

Dr.  Edward  N.  Clark,  director  of  research,  is  a  long 
distance  swimmer.  He  started  in  1963  as  part  of  a  Red 
Cross  sponsored  50  mile  swim  program.  He  surpassed  that 
mark  a  long  time  ago  and  now  has  logged  250  miles.  His 
interest  in  swimming  goes  back  to  his  days  as  a  varsity 
swimmer  at  Brown  University. 

New  York  Times  columnist  Arthur  Daley  last  Spring 
headed  his  column  with  "A  Plea  for  Students"  and  said, 
"It's  probably  a  half  a  century  since  any  college  authorities 
even  thought  of  returning  to  the  simplifications  and  the 
niceties  of  our  earliest  traditions.  Once  upon  a  time,  the 
members  of  all  athletic  teams  were  students  attending 
college  primarily  for  an  education." 

That  was  too  much  for  WPI  President  George  Hazzard 
to  let  pass  unchallenged.  In  his  letter  to  Mr.  Daley,  he  said, 
in  part,  "At  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,  we  have  never 
left  those  traditions.  WPI  is  not  a  minor  league  preparation 
for  professional  sports,  it  is  major  league  preparation  for 
life  itself.  .  .  About  400  students  (out  of  1800  undergrad- 
uates) participate  in  intercollegiate  sports  and  all  but  a  few 
take  part  in  some  phase  of  our  physical  education  program. 
The  program  is  guided  by  seven  full  time  and  eight  part 
time  coaches  with  an  operating  budget  (exclusive  of  salaries 
and  maintenance)  of  under  $100,000  a  year.  We  do  not 
seek  support  for  this  program  through  TV  receipts  or  bowl 
games,  for  it  is  an  integral  part  of  our  educational  program. 
We  find  that  the  playing  fields  do  contribute  to  more  than 
just  a  sound  body,  important  as  it  may  be.  They  teach 
dedication,  teamwork  and  sacrifice." 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


AND  NOW- A  WORD 
FROM  OUR  DIRECTOR 


ROBERT  W.  PRITCHARD 


Bhe  WPI  faculty,  in  its  considered  judgment  of  the  goals 
of  WPI,  voted  in  December  1969,  "It  is  the  fundamental 
purpose  of  WPI  to  impart  to  the  student  an  understanding 
of  a  sector  of  science  and  technology  and  a  mature 
understanding  of  himself  and  the  needs  of  the  people 
around  him."  Further,  the  goal  states:  "A  WPI  education 
should  develop  in  the  student  a  strong  degree  of  self-con- 
fidence, an  awareness  of  the  community  beyond  himself." 

How  does  the  Physical  Education  Department  and 
Athletics  contribute  to  these  worthy  goals?  Is  all  education 
academic?  Is  all  learning  confined  to  a  classroom?  Let's 
take  a  look  and  see  just  what  the  Department  of  Physical 
Education  and  Athletics  does  in  achieving  these  goals. 

Basically,  our  staff  are  college  educated  and  trained 
individuals  whose  interests  lie  in  working  closely  with 
young  people  in  a  controlled  atmosphere  of  teaching  skills, 
of  developing  talents,  of  appreciating  competition,  of 
demanding  discipline  and  of  working  constantly  in  a  team 
atmosphere  —  an  atmosphere  which  is  a  must  for  the  WPI 
Plan  to  succeed. 

There  are  three  areas  or  levels  of  activity  that  we 
sponsor  —  each  important  at  its  level  to  the  participant. 
And  in  all  these  three  —  Physical  Education,  Intramurals 
and  Intercollegiate  Program  —  the  following  opportunities 
and  values  are  inherent  with  increasing  degree  from  physical 
education  up  through  intercollegiate  athletics. 

1.  To  have  fun  —  enjoyment. 

2.  To  improve  health  and  physical  tones. 

3.  To  escape  from  everyday  tensions  —  which  no  one 
can  avoid. 

4.  To  become  more  alert  both  physically  and  mentally 
—  hence  a  better  student  and  campus  citizen. 

5.  To  experience  close  interpersonal  relationships. 

6.  To  test  and  develop  leadership  qualities. 

7.  To  derive  the  zeal  and  satisfaction  from  striving  for  a 
goal. 

8.  To  experience  and  learn  about  the  inevitable  stresses 
of  life's  situations. 

9.  To  learn  discipline  and  learn  to  sublimate  selfish 
desires  -  team  work. 


10.  To  test  character  in  a  game,  for  one  can  act 
honestly  or  dishonestly,  fair  or  unfair,  courageously  or 
cowardly  to  constantly  occurring  instances. 

11.  To  learn  self-reliance  and  to  gain  confidence. 

12.  To  share  and  feel  the  emotions  of  defeats  and 
victories. 

The  WPI  Plan  is  a  challenge  to  the  faculty  and  the 
students  and  no  department  has  reason  for  existence  if  it 
does  not  contribute  to  attaining  the  common  goals  of  the 
Plan. 

WPI's  physical  education  program  teaches  skills  in 
interesting  lifetime  sports  and  gives  the  decision  maker  — 
the  middle  and  upper  management  man  of  the  future 
healthful,  active,  life-extending  activities  that  he  can  pursue 
with  his  family  and  fellow  workers.  If  he  pursues  physical 
activity  in  his  maturing  years,  statistics  show  his  productive 
life  will  be  extended  and  enriched. 

WPI's  intramural  program  is  geared  to  the  slightly  more 
advanced  and  talented  individual  who  likes  the  invigorating 
fun  of  competing  in  situations  where  there  is  a  winner  and  a 
loser.  The  participant  is  a  member  of  a  team.  He  develops  a 
loyalty  and  he  knows  and  learns  about  team  work. 

The  third  area  of  the  department's  responsibility  is  the 
intercollegiate  program.  We  realize  that  whether  we  like  it 
or  not,  the  athletic  program  is  often  a  window  on  the 
college  and  it  is  through  this  window  that  outsiders  look 
and  make  judgments.  Therefore,  it  is  essential  that  an 
athletic  program  be  kept  in  proper  balance  and  perspective. 
The  place  of  the  athletic  program  reveals  the  college's 
priorities.  It  can  also  reveal  the  acquiescence  to  pressures. 
The  test  of  WPI's  athletic  program  lies  in  answer  to  the 
question  "What  docs  the  program  do  for  the  person?"  If 
the  participant  is  not  the  reason  for  the  existence  of  the 
program,  then  it  becomes  nearly  a  professional  program.  If 
the  purpose  of  the  program  is  to  make  money,  to  publicize 
the  school,  to  satisfy  the  alumni  ego  or  assuage  a  state 
legislature,  then  much  of  the  educational  value  of  an 
intercollegiate  program  is  lost. 

Physical  education,  recreation  and  intramurals  do  not 
fulfill    the    needs    of    all    students.    The    physically    more 

THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


talented  one,  the  one  who  loves  competition,  the  one  who 
likes  a  challenge  cannot  be  satisfied  with  recreational  and 
intramural  competition.  Just  as  in  academics  some  are 
spurred  on  to  a  higher  level  of  achievement  and  take  an 
overload  or  go  on  to  advanced  degrees,  so  also  is  the  need 
of  the  physically  talented  for  greater  challenges.  We  do 
need  more  recreational  opportunities  for  more  students  and 
staff,  but  recreational  opportunities  alone  do  not  satisfy  the 
athlete  or  potential  athlete. 

There  is  great  need  in  society  today  for  those  attributes 
that  can  be  best  taught  and  learned  in  a  balanced  athletic 
program.  Discipline  and  loyalty  were  once  successfully 
taught  in  the  home  and  church.  In  these  times  of  changing 
values,  the  athletic  field  is  one  of  the  few  remaining  places 
where  these  qualities  are  being  taught. 

Some  of  the  most  effective  teachers  and  counselors  are 
the  coaches.  They  were  the  first  to  begin  team  teaching  — 
to  break  things  into  smaller  components  and  then  to  bring 
skills  and  understanding  together  in  a  successful  route  to 
learning.  Coaches  are  excellent  teachers  because  they  do 
not  teach  the  easy  way.  There  is  no  easy  way  —  there  are  no 
short  cuts  in  coaching  —  you  can't  cut  corners.  They 
demand  and  get  hard  work  and  dedicated  interest.  For,  you 
see,  a  coach  and  a  team  are  at  a  disadvantage  when 
compared  to  a  classroom  situation.  In  a  game,  you  don't 
pass  the  course  with  a  60  or  70  percent  effort;  if  you  rate  a 
60  or  70,  you  don't  pass  —  you  don't  win.  There  are  no 
"Readers  Digest"  versions  in  athletics.  The  underachiever 
belongs  on  the  sidelines,  not  in  intercollegiate  athletics. 
Coaches  have  excellent  opportunities  to  counsel  students. 
Many  students  feel  freer  in  talking  to  a  coach;  there  is  less 
restraint  involved.  Coaches  are  constantly  in  situations 
where  emotions  are  rubbed  raw.  They  work  with  people  in 
real-life  situations  —  in  stress,  joy,  defeat,  frustration.  They 


develop  an  empathy  which  makes  them  excellent  coun- 
selors. 

The  Physical  Education  and  Athletic  Department  com- 
plements the  WPI  Plan.  To  reiterate  one  of  the  goals,  "A 
WPI  education  should  develop  in  the  student  a  strong 
degree  of  self  confidence."  We  know  of  no  better  labora- 
tory of  human  relationships  than  that  which  occurs  on 
athletic  fields  and  areas.  If  the  coach  mixes  the  wrong 
ingredient  here,  it  can  be  just  as  damaging  as  mixing  the 
wrong  ingredients  in  a  chemistry  laboratory.  He's  teaching 
fair  play,  honesty,  teamwork,  and  we  don't  expect  him  to 
teach  how  to  cheat,  how  to  beat  the  game,  or  how  to  sluff 
off  or  just  get  by. 

In  closing,  a  balanced,  in-proper-perspective  athletic 
program  can  provide  so  many  opportunities  for  a  student 
and  a  college  and  its  atmosphere.  Another  plus  is  that  the 
athletic  teams  provide  the  only  contact  WPI  has  with  many 
outstanding  colleges  in  New  England.  Further,  athletics  are 
a  challenge  (a  constant  challenge  to  one's  self-discipline  and 
determination),  it  tests  one's  emotions,  it  teaches  and 
demands  self-reliance,  confidence,  and  teamwork.  How 
many  other  courses  in  the  college  catalog  could  have  a 
course  description  like  this? 

Yes,  one  of  the  best  bargains  at  WPI  is  its  physical 
education  and  athletic  programs.  Perhaps  Frederick  L. 
Houde,  president  of  Purdue  University,  wrapped  it  all  up 
best  when  he  said  recently:  "It  seems  to  be  that  in  the 
management  of  the  affairs  of  men  in  this  society  and  all 
societies,  the  strain  is  always  on  the  character  and  never  on 
the  intellect  —  for  our  knowledge  is  great  about  man  and 
nature  and  society  and  all  the  things  we  need  to  know,  but 
our  ability  to  manage  our  affairs  puts  a  strain  on  the 
character  —  and  where  is  this  more  true  than  in  the  field  of 
the  management  of  intercollegiate  athletics." 


IE  WPI  JOURNAL 


WHO? 


The  WPI  Coaching  Staff 

All  full  time  members  of  the  coaching  staff  are 
accorded  full  WPI  faculty  status.  Their  profession  is 
teaching  and  they  work  at  it  throughout  the  college  year. 
Each  member  of  the  staff  teaches  physical  education  classes 
in  addition  to  coaching  varsity  and  J.V.  teams  in  their 
respective  sports.  In  addition  four  classroom  courses  for 
credit  will  be  offered  under  the  WPI  Plan. 

With  the  rest  of  the  faculty,  they  share  important 
committee  responsibilities  and  privileges,  including  tenure. 

Although  their  role  as  faculty  members  is  not  unique,  it 
is  not  widespread  in  college  circles.  Their  status  does  reflect 
the  WPI  attitude  that  the  physical  education  and  athletics 
program  is  part  of  the  overall  educational  program  of  the 
college. 

These  brief  biographical  sketches  give  the  highlights  of 
the  careers  of  the  men  who  guide  the  athletic  program 
throughout  the  year. 


Bob  Pritchard  first  appeared  on  the  WPI  campus  in 
1941  as  an  instructor  and  assistant  football  coach.  He  had 
previously  been  a  coach  at  Susquehanna  University  from 
which  he  graduated  in  1936.  He  also  earned  his  master's 
degree  at  Penn  State  during  that  period. 

Hardly  had  his  WPI  career  begun  when  he  was  called  to 
active  service  in  the  Air  Force  as  a  physical  education 
officer.  When  the  war  ended,  he  was  appointed  athletic 
director  and  football  coach  at  his  old  high  school  in 
Kingston,  Penn.  However,  in  1947,  he  accepted  the 
invitation  to  return  to  WPI.  In  1952,  he  succeeded  the 
retiring  Percy  Carpenter  as  head  of  the  department. 

Bob  also  served  as  head  football  coach  at  WPI  until 
1966  when  he  reluctantly  made  the  decision  to  give  up  the 
post  because  of  the  increasing  administrative  responsibilities 
in  his  growing  department.  He  coached  football  longer  than 
any  WPI  coach  and  won  more  games  than  any  previous 
coach,  including  an  undefeated  team  in  1954. 

Any  WPI  athlete  of  the  past  25  years  remembers  the 
Pritchard  humor  which  reaches  its  peak  at  the  sports 
banquets  each  year.  His  jokes  rival  the  best  of  the 
professional  comedians  but  few  in  his  audience  realize  how 
carefully  he  saves  those  jokes  from  all  sources  throughout 
the  year  for  those  one-night  stands. 

Coach  Pritchard  is  an  athletic  director  who  believes  in 
sharing  his  experiences  with  his  colleagues.  This  spirit  of 
cooperation  has  brought  him  many  honors.  He  is  a  past 
president  of  the  New  England  Intercollegiate  Athletic- 
Association,  a  past  executive  committee  member  of  the 
Eastern  College  Athletic  Conference,  past  president  of  the 
Quinsigamond  Regatta  Association  and  for  many  years  he 
has  been  chairman  of  the  Worcester  Red  Cross  Water  Safety 
Committee.  He  is  past  president  of  the  New  England 
College  Athletic  Conference  and  was  for  four  years  member 
of  NCAA  College  Committee. 

He  is  now  serving  as  vice  president  of  the  National 
College  Athletic  Association  and  serves  on  its  policy  making 
council.  He  is  chairman  of  the  NCAA's  Drug  Education 
Committee  and  he  has  written  a  foreword  to  a  drug 
information  booklet  distributed  this  fall  to  250,000 
coaches  throughout  the  country.  This  publication  was 
prepared  by  his  committee  in  cooperation  with  the  U.S. 
Bureau  of  Narcotics  and  Dangerous  Drugs.  At  the  last 
annual  NCAA  Convention  he  chaired  a  round  table  dis- 
cussion for  all  member  colleges. 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Alan  King  was  born  in  Newcastle,  England,  where  soccer 
s  the  national  sport.  After  a  tour  in  the  British  Army,  he 
worked  as  a  commercial  assistant  in  Singapore.  In  1953,  he 
:ame  to  the  United  States  to  enter  Springfield  College. 
Although  soccer  was  his  great  love,  he  was  ineligible  to  play 
n  college,  having  played  professionally  in  England. 

It  was  this  experience  however  that  brought  him  to  WPI 
n  1957  and  which  has  brought  winning  soccer  seasons 
ilmost  as  a  habit  since.  His  1965  team  was  undefeated,  and 
lis  teams  have  gone  on  to  post-season  tournament  play  in 
nany  seasons. 

He  retains  a  slight  and  pleasing  British  accent  which 
somehow  seems  a  bit  out  of  place  in  the  New  Hampshire 
nountains  when  he's  coaching  the  WPI  Ski  Club  team, 
however,  his  teams  do  as  well  on  the  slopes  as  they  do  on 
:he  soccer  fields.  In  the  spring  he  coaches  the  tennis  team, 
which  has  also  enjoyed  some  fine  seasons  in  recent  years. 

Alan  stills  plays  soccer  himself  as  a  member  of  the 
-lartford  Ukranians  which  at  press  time  was  enjoying  an 
undefeated  season  although,  he  added  with  a  wry  smile, 
'that  means  two  wins  and  five  ties." 

His  knowledge  of  soccer  has  made  him  in  great  demand 
is  a  lecturer  at  soccer  clinics  for  both  high  school  and 
:ollege  teams  as  well  as  at  summer  soccer  camps.  It  has  also 
Drought  him  a  rare  honor  in  his  selection  as  a  member  of 
:he  NCAA  Soccer  Rules  Committee  where  he  is  one  of  only 
lix  coaches  in  the  country  selected.  Due  recognition  for  a 
nan  whose  WPI  teams  have  won  the  New  England  college 
iivision  championship  four  out  of  the  past  seven  seasons, 
ncluding  the  1965  undefeated  season. 


The  1971  season  was  Associate  Professor  Melvin  Mas- 
succo's  fifth  year  as  Head  Coach  at  WPI.  His  playing  days 
started  at  Arlington  High  School  as  a  starter  for  3  years  in 
football,  hockey  and  baseball.  He  captained  the  football 
and  baseball  teams  his  senior  year.  Picked  on  the  Greater 
Boston  All-Scholastic  Teams  in  all  three  sports,  and  played 
in  the  Manning  Bowl  All-Star  Game  in  1943.  Selected  for 
the  Eastern  Mass.  Interscholastic  Sports  Writers  Association 
Most  Valuable  Player  Award. 

Entering  the  Army,  he  played  2  years  of  football  and 
baseball  in  Italy;  playing  for  the  M.T.O.  All-Stars  in  a 
post-season  game  in  Nice,  France. 

Later  entering  Holy  Cross,  he  played  3  years  as  starting 
halfback  and  team  punter.  Captained  his  senior  year  with 
the  team  finishing  8-2.  For  many  years  he  held  the  season 
and  career  rushing  record  for  Holy  Cross. 

Mel  was  picked  by  coaches  to  play  in  the  North-South 
Shrine  Game  December  of  1951.  He  was  also  selected  to 
many  All-New  England  and  All-East  teams  and  was  voted  as 
All-Catholic  All- American  by  a  board  of  coaches. 

The  Holy  Cross  Varsity  Club  elected  him  to  the  Holy 
Cross  Athletic  Hall  of  Fame  in  1969. 

He  was  drafted  by  the  Chicago  Cardinals  of  the 
National  Football  League  in  the  Spring  of  1952  but  after 
working  out  with  the  Cardinals  most  of  July  and  August, 
passed  up  pro-football  and  joined  Charles  O'Rourke  at  the 
University  of  Massachusetts  as  Freshman  Coach.  He  is  now 
in  his  20th  year  of  coaching  —  2  years  at  U.  Mass.,  11  as  an 
assistant  at  Holy  Cross,  and  2  as  Head  Coach  at  Holy  Cross. 


i  WPI  JOURNAL 


Merl  Norcross  is  in  his  18th  season  as  WPI  head  track 
coach.  He  earned  his  bachelor's,  and  master's  degrees  at  the 
University  of  North  Carolina.  While  in  college,  he  served  as 
assistant  coach  of  football  at  Edenton  and  Chapel  Hill,  N.C. 
high  schools.  After  graduation,  he  spent  a  year  at  Morres- 
ville,  N.C.  high  school  as  a  teacher  and  basketball  coach. 

Like  Bob  Pritchard,  he  is  an  alumnus  of  Kingston, 
Penn.,  High  School  and  it  was  this  connection  which 
brought  him  to  Pritchard's  attention  in  1952. 

His  1963  team  was  undefeated.  Co-captain  Jack  Mc- 
Grath's  records  for  the  high  jump  and  the  high  hurdles  still 
stand  as  college  records.  Under  his  coaching,  Cary  Palulis, 
'68,  won  the  New  England  880  yard  title  three  years 
straight  as  well  as  setting  several  other  unbroken  records. 

Merl  is  a  popular  after-dinner  speaker  on  the  Alumni 
and  luncheon  club  circuit. 

While  in  college,  Merl  played  halfback  in  both  the 
Cotton  Bowl  and  the  Sugar  Bowl  in  post-season  games. 
Although  track  is  his  major  interest  at  WPI,  he  also  serves  as 
assistant  football  coach.  In  his  spare  time,  he  heads  the 
department's  low-key  recruiting  effort  to  convince  high 
school  scholar-athletes  that  WPI  can  offer  just  what  they 
seek  in  a  college. 

Merl  was  recendy  selected  as  a  member  of  the  NCAA 
Track  and  Field  Rules  Committee. 


Charles  NcNulty  made  his  debut  on  the  WPI  campus  in 
the  uniform  of  a  Navy  Chief  Petty  Officer  when  the  Navy 
established  a  V-12  unit  on  campus  in  1943.  His  mellow 
voice  exhorted  the  sleepy-eyed  cadets  to  "put  a  little  more 
muscle  in  those  pushups"  during  crack-of-dawn  calisthenics. 

He  had  joined  the  Navy  as  a  physical  education 
instructor  after  graduation  from  Manhattan  College  where 
he  had  played  varsity  baseball  and  football  three  years. 
When  he  left  the  service  in  1945,  he  took  his  first  coaching 
job  at  LaSalle  Institute  in  Troy,  N.Y.  but  a  year  later 
accepted  the  invitation  to  join  the  WPI  staff,  this  time  as  a 
civilian. 

Charlie  is  the  baseball  coach  as  well  as  assistant  football 
coach.  He  was  pledged  and  initiated  by  the  WPI  chapter  of 
Phi  Kappa  Theta  fraternity  and  he  is  an  active  member  of 
the  Alumni  Corporation  which  owns  the  local  chapter 
house. 

Although  he  pushed  the  students-turned-sailors  hard 
during  those  war  years,  the  alumni  who  were  on  campus 
during  those  hectic  years  remember  him  fondly.  At  its  25th 
reunion  last  June,  he  was  the  guest  of  honor  of  the  Class  of 
1946.  They  all  remembered  the  steps  and  Charlie  called  out 
the  commands  while  the  troops  of  '46  marched  close  order 
drill  in  the  moonlight  on  the  lawn  of  the  Higgins  estate,  an 
area  off  limits  during  their  student  days. 


10 


THE  WPI  JOURNALS 


WtvB 

^B| 

t^^^H 

TOc 

1- 

. 

When  co-eds  became  part  of  the  WPI  scene,  the 
standard  physical  education  program  did  not  quite  meet 
their  needs.  Mrs.  Paula  Lantz  joined  the  staff  on  a  part  time 
basis  in  1969  with  a  free  hand  to  develop  a  girls'  program  in 
keeping  with  the  spirit  of  the  program  for  men. 

It  was  a  cooperative  venture  from  the  beginning  as  she 
and  the  girls  decided  what  to  cover  in  the  weekly  classes.  In 
her  first  class,  she  found  only  two  or  three  girls  out  of  24 
who  could  really  play  tennis.  This  became  the  first  sport  to 
master.  Later,  the  girls  asked  to  have  football  coach  Mel 
Massucco  give  a  lecture  on  how  to  watch  a  football  game 
intelligently. 

"Girls  need  an  understanding  of  sports  as  much  as 
men,"  says  Mrs.  Lantz.  "Many  of  the  lifetime  sports  are 
enjoyed  equally  by  men  and  women." 

The  girls  learn  the  fundamentals  of  tennis,  soccer,  field 
hockey,  bowling,  volley  ball,  swimming,  badminton,  table 
tennis  and  tumbling.  There's  been  some  resistance  to 
modern  dancing  but  she  hasn't  given  up  yet. 

She's  a  graduate  of  Bridgewater  State  College  and  is 
married  to  Clifford  Lantz,  a  former  member  of  the  WPI 
faculty  now  working  for  a  consulting  engineering  firm. 

WPI  isn't  ready  yet  to  field  intercollegiate  girls'  teams 
but  she  looks  forward  to  the  day  when  there  will  be  enough 
women  athletes  in  a  given  sport  to  make  this  possible. 


Swimming  Coach  Carl  Peterson  joined  the  WPI  staff  in 
1968  after  two  years  as  a  teacher  and  coach  at  Lewiston, 
Maine,  High  School.  He  received  his  degree  at  Bowdoin  in 
1966.  He  began  swimming  in  competition  in  high  school 
and  was  a  varsity  swimmer  at  Bowdoin. 

Although  developing  one  of  the  finest  WPI  swimming 
teams  in  recent  years  is  his  major  interest  professionally,  he 
has  also  encouraged  general  recreational  swimming  by 
keeping  the  pool  open  as  many  hours  a  day  as  possible. 
With  his  corps  of  trained  lifeguards,  he  also  conducts  Red 
Cross  Water  Safety  courses  as  a  certified  instructor. 

His  1971  team  tied  the  best  season  of  any  swimming 
team  in  the  college's  history  with  a  total  of  6  wins  against  2 
losses. 

Carl  is  vice  president  of  the  New  England  Swimming 
Coaches  Association. 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


11 


Jim  Herrion  added  a  new  spirit  to  the  basketball  team 
when  he  took  over  as  head  coach  in  1969.  During  that  first 
year,  he  was  still  a  teacher  at  Tantasqua  Regional  High 
School  in  Sturbridge.  The  following  summer  he  joined  the 
WPI  faculty  and  assumed  full  time  duties  in  the  department. 

He  graduated  from  Iona  College  in  1950  and  has  earned 
his  master's  degree  in  graduate  study  at  New  York 
University  and  Fordham.  His  first  position  after  graduation 
was  that  of  teacher,  coach  and  athletic  director  at  Sacred 
Heart  High  School  in  Yonkers,  N.Y.  where  he  served  14 
years.  From  there,  he  went  to  Pearl  River,  N.Y.,  High 
School  to  spend  a  year  as  a  teacher  of  biology.  In  1965,  he 
was  named  assistant  basketball  coach  at  Holy  Cross, 
remaining  there  until  he  resumed  high  school  teaching  at 
Tantasqua  in  1968. 

His  first  two  seasons  at  WPI  have  produced  teams  with 
overall  winning  records. 


The  newest  member  of  the  WPI  physical  education 
faculty  is  Richard  A.  Heikkinen  who  was  appointed  an 
instructor  July  1,  1971.  He  brings  to  the  post  of  wrestling 
instructor  five  years  of  secondary  school  coaching  experi- 
ence. His  first  post  was  at  Fryeburg  Academy,  where  he 
served  three  years  as  physical  education  instructor,  football 
and  wrestling  coach  and  for  the  past  two  years  as  head  of 
the  physical  education  department,  football  and  wrestling 
coach  at  Kennebunk  High  School  in  Maine.  He  did  his 
undergraduate  work  at  Springfield  College  and  also  studied 
at  the  University  of  New  Hampshire  and  the  University  of 
Maine. 

He  faces  his  first  season  as  a  college  wrestling  coach 
with  the  prospects  of  another  good  year  of  WPI  wrestling. 
The  team  last  year  had  its  best  season  ever  under  the 
coaching  of  graduate  student  Lennie  Polizzotto,  '70,  who 
was  himself  a  member  of  several  standout  WPI  wrestling 
teams  as  an  undergraduate. 

At  WPI,  he  is  also  an  assistant  football  coach  and  in  the 
spring  will  help  with  the  track  team. 


Part  Time  Coaches 

With  over  400  students  participating  in  varsity  sports, 
WPI  relies  on  the  services  of  many  part  time  coaching 
assistants  to  help  with  each  sport  in  season.  These  people 
also  share  in  the  credit  for  the  fine  showing  of  WPI  teams: 
FOOTBALL:  Tom  Heinold,  '70,  of  the  Heald  Machine 
Division;  Charles  Murphy,  a  teacher  in  Auburn. 
BASKETBALL:  Kenneth  Kaufman,  a  physical  education 
teacher  in  the  Worcester  Public  School  system. 
SOCCER:  James  MacKechnic  of  Norton  Company;  James 
Kaufman,  a  WPI  post  doctoral  student. 

WRESTLING:    Leonard    Polizzotto,    '70,   now   a  graduate 
student. 

GOLF:   Prof.   Herbert  Yankee  of  the  Mechanical  Engineer- 
ing Department. 

J.  V.  GOLF:  John  Gale.  '70,  WPI  graduate  student. 
CROSS     COUNTRY:     Frank    Sannella,     retired     supt.    of 
schools,  Oxford,  Mass. 


12 


Club  Sport  Coaches 

Some  WPI  intercollegiate  sports  are  sponsored  by 
student  clubs  and  receive  financial  support  from  the 
student  activities  fund  rather  than  from  the  Athletic 
Department  budget.  The  following  have  active  programs  at 
this  time. 

FENCING:  Coach,  Mrs.  Henrietta  Beyer  of  Norton  Co.; 
Faculty  Advisor,  Donald  Kievet,  assistant  director  of 
admissions 

CREW:  Coach,  Kenneth  Burns,  retired  Shrewsbury  police 
chief;  Faculty  Advisor,  Richard  Olson,  Mathematics  Depart- 
ment instructor. 

HOCKEY:  Coach,  Leonard  Bowen 
SKIING:  Coach  and  Faculty  Advisor,  Alan  King 
RIFLE:    Faculty  Advisor,  Walter  Kistler,  associate  profes- 
sor. Mechanical  Engineering 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


THE 


VIEW 


FROM 


DOWH 


HEME 


BY  ALAN  DION,  72 


^^^^  chronicler  attempting  to  recount  the  story  of 
athletics  at  an  engineering  college  might  believe  it  germane 
to  stick  to  statistics  and  scores.  Yet  to  me  the  significance 
of  the  WPI  sports  program  has  not  been  the  won-lost 
records  or  performances  but  a  series  of  impressions  left  over 
from  watching  events  and  people.  As  a  competitor,  spec- 
tator, manager,  and  reporter  of  various  Tech  sports  over  the 
past  few  years,  I've  been  exposed  to  many  views  of  an 
overall  picture  which  has  been  by  turns  both  confusing  and 
interesting. 

Take,  for  example,  the  fact  that  WPI  has  an  athletic 
program  at  all,  let  alone  one  which  I've  heard  boasted  of  as 
"larger  than  Notre  Dame's,"  with  seventeen  varsity  and 
club  team  sports.  As  an  institution  devoted  to  disciplining 
minds  to  function  in  rather  sedentary  jobs  as  engineers, 
scientists,  and  businessmen,  it  would  seem  that  physical 
advancement  lies  outside  Tech's  main  objectives.  Whether  it 
was  the  inscrutable  intentions  of  past  administrators  or  the 
proximity  of  the  Ivy  League  student-athlete  ideal  which  is 
responsible  for  the  present  situation,  it  does  remain  that 
about  a  third  of  all  WPI  students  compete  in  a  sports 
program  which  is  greater  in  scope  (if  not  in  size)  than  that 
of  the  Fighting  Irish  and  many  other  colleges. 

Consider  that  the  WPI  campus  has  no  social  center,  it 
houses  only  a  fraction  of  its  students,  and  yet  we 
nonetheless  fill  our  football  stands  on  alternate  Autumn 
Saturdays  —  more  often  than  not  to  see  the  WPI  engineers 
lose  to  other  undistinguished  teams. 

Or  ponder  the  fact  that  students  who  may  never  before 
have  seen  amateur  wrestling  now  crowd  what  was  once  an 
atrocious  basketball  court  (and  remains  an  acoustical 
horror)  to  lend  their  verbal  mayhem  to  the  conflicts  on  the 
mat.  One  can  marvel  at  the  fact  that,  of  all  those  seventeen 
teams,  one  of  the  most  successful  and  prestigious  is  the  club 
sport  of  crew,  which  is  entirely  dependent  upon  student 
support.  One  can  try  to  explain  the  case  of  a  progressive 
engineering  school  which  drops  all  course  requirements 
except  for  a  two-year  physical  education  program,  and  this 
has  sparked  some  student  resentment. 


It  doesn't  require  very  astute  observation  to  realize  that 
the  distinctive  athletic  program  of  WPI  gives  rise  to  some 
interesting  sports  stories.  Much  of  the  uniqueness  of  the 
situation  is  due  to  the  fact  that  the  program  is  intended  for 
the  students  rather  than  for  the  college.  At  no  other 
institution  I've  seen  is  there  so  much  opportunity  to 
compete.  Guys  who  didn't  have  the  interest  in  high  school 
(or  maybe  their  school  lacked  a  team)  try  out  for  sports 
that  are  new  to  them:  crew  and  soccer,  skiing  and 
swimming,  wrestling  and  fencing  and  perhaps  even  football. 
And  because  the  level  of  competition  may  not  be  high, 
novices  have  a  chance  to  compete  at  a  time  they  may  need 
a  physical  outlet. 

The  gym  at  WPI  belongs  not  only  to  the  jocks  but  to  all 
students.  Like  it  or  not,  everyone  gets  introduced  to  the 
place  through  required  P.E.  classes.  Some  get  turned  off  by 
being  compelled  like  children  to  exercise  for  their  own 
good.  Others  find  it  a  chance  to  try  and  hold  on  to  the 
physical  vigor  they  maintained  in  high  school  for  a  little 
while  longer. 

On  a  campus  which  lacks  any  real  social  center,  the  gym 
serves  a  significant  purpose  in  providing  a  place  to  hang  out 
in  interims  between  classwork  and  homework,  particularly 
for  commuting  students.  This  idea  of  providing  a  social 
focus  for  a  decentralized  campus  is  an  important  aspect  of 
the  entire  athletic  program  at  WPI.  One  of  the  rare  times 
fraternity  and  non-fraternity  students  associate  to  any  large 
degree  outside  the  classroom  is  when  they  compete  with 
each  other  in  intramural  sports,  or  when  they  support  a 
WPI  team  against  another  school. 

Herein  lies  the  raison  d'etre  of  the  athletic  program  at 
Tech  as  I  see  it.  Its  purpose  isn't  to  compel  freshmen  and 
sophomores  to  learn  a  "lifetime  sport,"  or  serve  as  a 
criterion  for  selecting  people  to  fraternities  or  honor 
societies.  Even  the  notion  of  providing  a  competitive  outlet 
isn't  that  important;  God  knows  there's  enough  competi- 
tion in  the  classroom.  What  athletics  really  provides  at 
Worcester  Tech  is  a  starting  point  on  which  to  build  a 
campus  community.  Sports  might  not  be  the  best  or  only 
way  of  accomplishing  this,  but  at  WPI  it's  a  good  start. 


13 


mm  mm 


Football  Leaders 

Passing 

Art. 

Comp. 

Int. 

Net  Yds. 

TD's 

Steve  Joseph 

176 

75 

13 

955 

9 

Rushing 

Car. 

Gain 

Loss 

Net  Yds. 

TD's 

Charlie  Deschenes 

115 

525 

12 

513 

1 

Wayne  Pitts 

93 

405 

20 

385 

-> 

3 

Steve  Slavick 

90 

377 

0 

377 

6 

Receiving 

Rec. 

Yds. 

TD's 

Jim  Buell 

42 

550 

4 

Wayne  Pitts 

23 

227 

5 

Punting 

Kick 

Yds. 

Ave. 

Ralph  N'oblin 

22 

766 

34.8 

Scoring 

TD 

Con 

PAT 

FG 

Points 

Wayne  Pitts 

8 

1 

0 

0 

50 

Steve  Slavick 

6 

0 

0 

0 

36 

Jim  Buell 

4 

0 

0 

0 

24 

Bob  Aubrey 

0 

0 

16 

2 

22 

FOOTBALL  (2-6) 

The  WPI  football  season  ended  on 
a  disappointing  note  with  a  22-18  loss 
to  Norwich.  The  really  bright  spot  of 
the  season  was  the  26-0  upset  win  over 
Wesleyan  on  Homecoming  Day.  That 
day  even-thing  seemed  to  work. 

Scores  don't  tell  the  whole  story. 
Over  eight  games,  the  Engineers'  total 
offense  covered  an  average  of  322 
yards  compared  with  302  for  the 
opponents.  In  the  scoring  column,  the 
one  that  counts,  WPI  averaged  a  field 
goal  less  than  the  opposition.  14  inter- 
ceptions and  10  of  15  fumbles  lost 
also  hurt. 

Quarterback  Steve  Joseph  and 
halfback     Charlie     Deschenes     played 


THE  WPI  JOURNA 


-i 


their  last  season.  Joseph  led  the  of- 
fense with  a  total  of  971  yards  this 
season.  Steve's  improved  passing  ac- 
counted for  9  touchdowns.  Deschenes 
was  a  key  to  the  WP1  running  game, 
averaging  4.5  yards  a  carry.  Tight  end 
Tom  Staehr  and  tackle  co-captain  Vin 
Colonero  are  the  other  seniors  on  the 
offensive  team.  The  defense  will  lose 
tackle  John  Cuth  and  line  backers 
co-captain  Jeff  Petry  and  John 
O'Donnell. 

However,  hopes  springs  eternal  in 
the  breast  of  a  football  coach  and  Mel 
Massucco  is  already  looking  to  1972 
when  a  host  of  talent  from  this  year's 
JV  team  (with  an  impressive  3-0  rec- 
ord) will  be  scrambling  for  the  vacated 
spots.  This  year's  varsity  veterans  will 
be  back  with  a  lot  more  experience 
and  a  little  pre-season  polishing  should 
turn  the  1972  team  into  one  which 
may  surprise  a  great  many  of  the 
experts. 

Season's  Record 
Opponent  WPI  Score 

UNION         28  20 

BOWDOIN         ....  35  14 

MIDDLEBURY       ...  35  17 

BATES  15  31 

WESLEYAN      ....     0  26 

COASTGUARD  .      .31  23 

RPI  28  21 

NORWICH         ....  22  18 


SOCCER  (5-5-1) 


Player 

Jack  Blaisdell 
Bill  Gemmer 
Bruce  Kern 
Gus  Boucher 


Leading  Point  Scorers 

Goals 
12 

7 


Opponent 

U HARTFORD       ...  4 

HOLY  CROSS        ...  3 

TUFTS  6 

MIT         4 

BU  o 

LOWELL  TECH  .      .  0 

CLARK 2 

ASSUMPTION        ...  0 

COASTGUARD  .      .  1 

UMASS 2 

AIC         0 

HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Assists 
3 
2 
6 
1 

WPI 

Score 
1 
4 
1 
3 
2 
6 
5 
4 
0 
2 
1 


HELP! 


In  order  to  complete  the  WPI  Archives,  the  Gordon  Library  needs  to  find 
copies  of  the  following  WPI  Aftermaths  and  Peddlers: 

1883  1887  1905 

1884  1889  1906 

1885  1898  1907 

1886  1904  1911 

In  addition,  the  Library  would  like  one  additional  copy  of  those  books  from 
the  following  years: 

1882  1896  1908 

1890  1897  1943 

Any  alumnus  or  friend  who  can  help  out  by  supplying  one  of  these  18 
volumes  will  be  performing  an  invaluable  service  to  WPI.  Contributions 
should  be  sent  (carefully  protected  against  the  ravages  of  the  mails)  to: 

Albert  G.  Anderson,  Jr.,  Librarian 
George  C.  Gordon  Library 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute 
Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609 


J 


CROSS  COUNTRY  (8-4) 


Frank  Sannella's  Cross  Country  team 
completed  this  last  season  with  a  fine 
8  and  4  record,  one  of  Tech's  best 
records  in  many  years.  And  as  seen 
with  other  fall  sports,  the  promise  of 
next  year  is  with  young,  up-and- 
comers  on  the  varsity  squad. 


Senior  co-captain  Mike  Malone  led 
Tech  runners  most  of  the  year.  The 
big  surprises  were  frosh  Chris  Keenan 
and  Fran  O'Connell  who  did  yeomen 
service  behind  Mike.  Returning  to 
back  these  frosh  are  juniors  Dick 
Filippetti,  Dick  Stockdale  and  Andy 
Murch. 


Season's  Record 


WPI 

MIT 

WPI 

WPI 

TUFTS 

WPI 

WPI       . 

WILLIAMS 

WPI       .      . 


.      .  15 

WORCESTER  STATE    40 

ASSUMPTION 

.65 

.      .  23 

RPI       .... 

.49 

WPI       .      .      .      . 

.  54 

.      .  24 

WESLEYAN 

.  35 

.      .  23 

BATES      .      .      . 

.  36 

.      .  21 

WPI      .... 

.  37 

.      .  23 

BRANDEIS 

.  32 

.      .  30 

AMHERST 

.40 

BENTLEY      .      . 

.  72 

18V2 

WPI      .... 

37'/2 

.      .  15 

TRINITY        .      . 

.45 

The  WPI  booters  finished  the  1971 
season  with  a  5-5-1  record.  The  season 
was  a  slight  letdown  from  last  year's 
New  England  College  Champs,  but  the 
experience  gained  by  this  year's  young 
team  should  be  of  valuable  help  when 
Coach  King  leads  them  on  the  '72 
campaign. 

The  offensive  punch  will  lack  the 
goal  scoring  of  senior  standout,  Jack 
Blaisdell,  but  sophomore  Bill  Gemmer 


seems  to  be  Jack's  likely  successor  at 
this  role.  Returning  scorers  will  also 
see  Gus  Boucher  and  Bucky  Kashiwa 
around  for  another  year's  service. 

The  defense  will  ably  back  up  the 
team  with  standouts  Steve  Williams 
and  Bill  Johnson  returning  to  aid 
promising  goal  tender  Marc  Frodyma. 
A  year  wiser,  Tech's  young  squad  will 
look  forward  to  improving  their  .500 
performance  of  this  season. 


15 


WPI  students  were  involved  in  a 
campus-wide  demonstration  November 
12  and  13.  It  was  a  demonstration  of 
concern  for  others  which  took  the 
form  of  a  marathon  basketball  for 
charity.  The  final  score  of  the  24  hour 
game  was  905  to  735  but  the  real 
winner  was  the  Worcester  Area  United 
Appeal  Fund  which  received  the 
$1600  raised  in  the  project. 

The  event  was  the  brainchild  of 
Steve  Baum,  '73,  Bill  Delphos,  '74, 
co-chairmen  of  the  game  committee 
and  Anthony  "Tim"  Longo,  '72,  presi- 
dent of  the  Interfraternity  Council. 

It  was  not  a  marathon  in  the  sense 
that  the  same  players  shuffled  around 
the  court  to  exhaustion.  The  12  WPI 
fraternities  fielded  teams  which  played 
in  rotation  against  a  variety  of  chal- 
lengers. The  opening  round  set  the 
stage  when  the  game  committee  wear- 
ing football  jerseys  and  shoulder  pads 
put  up  a  valiant  effort  against  a  team 
of  junior  co-eds.  They  were  followed 
by  a  team  of  deans  from  Worcester 
colleges  who  appeared  in  caps  and 
gowns  but  quickly  dispensed  with  the 
encumbering  costumes. 

The  extra  attractions  really  made 
the  game  memorable  for  the  crowds  in 
attendance.  Door  prizes,  generously 
donated  by  local  business  firms,  were 
awarded  every  half  hour.  Baked  goods 
contributed  by  campus  secretaries  and 
faculty  wives  were  sold  in  the  refresh- 
ment stand  or  auctioned  off.  There 
were  slave  auctions  in  which  volun- 
teers agreed  to  work  for  the  highest 
bidder  for  a  few  hours. 

These  were  some  of  the  memora- 
ble highlights:  Miss  Worcester  County 
judged  the  Hot  Pants  Contest  (for  men 
only).  Winner  was  popular  math  in- 
structor     Dick      Olson     who     hadn't 


planned  to  enter  until  M.  C.  Bill  Trask 
got  the  crowd  to  bid  $21  to  the  fund 
if  Ollie  would  allow  his  pants  to  be  cut 
off  at  the  knees  so  he  would  be 
eligible.  Father  Peter  Scanlon,  Catholic 
campus  chaplain,  later  made  the  high 
bid  when  Ollie's  shredded  pants  were 
auctioned  off. 

Sig  Ep  bought  the  services  of  Phi 
Kappa  Theta  and  Delta  Sigma  Tau  in 
the  slave  auction  and  ended  up  with 
the  cleanest  house  on  campus.  Prof. 
Alvin  Weiss  was  bought  at  auction  by 
ATO  and  later  was  high  bidder  for  the 
ATO  "slaves".  "I  had  to  protect  my 
interests,"  he  said. 

The  most  improbable  door  prize 
winner  was  the  girl  from  Rio  de 
Janeiro,  Brazil,  who  won  a  Flexible 
Flyer  sled. 

For  a  bid  of  $5,  Prof.  Harit 
Majmudar  did  a  one  minute  Indian 
Headstand  in  the  middle  of  Harrington 
Auditorium  to  the  delight  of  the 
crowd. 

Services  of  WPI  security  officers, 
custodians  and  electricians  were  all 
donated  for  the  game.  So  too  were  the 
services  of  professional  basketball  ref- 
erees and  guest  announcers. 

Among  the  players  were  teams 
from  other  Worcester  colleges  plus 
church  and  high  schools  teams.  Togo 
Palazzi,  former  Holy  Cross  All-Amcri- 
can  basketball  star  and  later  a  profes- 
sional in  the  National  Basketball  As- 
sociation, sparked  a  team  of  student 
nurses  from  Memorial  Hospital  against 
Sig  Ep.  The  Officers  of  the  ROTC 
unit,  including  a  full  colonel  and  three 
majors,  played  valiantly  but  were  no 
match  for  the  more  experienced  team 
from  Phi  Gam. 

Almost  300  people  played  on  the 
court   during   the  game  and  hundreds 


more  were  on  hand,  even  into  the 
small  hours  of  the  morning  to  cheer 
their  favorites.  "In  my  14  years  on  the 
campus,  I've  never  seen  a  project  that 
so  many  students  became  so  deeply 
involved  in  at  one  time,"  said  Dean 
Trask.  "They  are  already  starting  to 
plan  for  next  year's  game."  Maybe  by 
then,  Dean  Trask  will  have  his  voice 
back  after  his  24  hour  stint  as  master 
of  ceremonies,  auctioneer,  and  super 
star  on  the  dean's  team. 


16 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL  h 


Our  40th  reunion  was  held  at  the 
Yankee  Drummer  in  Auburn,  Mass.  on 
Friday  evening,  June  4,  1971.  Presi- 
dent and  Mrs.  Hazzard  shared  dinner 
with  us.  We  felt  honored  to  have  our 
college  president  for  at  least  a  portion 
of  our  reunion. 

The  principal  business  of  the  meet- 
ing was  a  report  by  Robert  Barrett, 
Chairman  of  our  50th  Reunion  Gift 
Committee.  His  report  indicates  that 
our  class  now  has  cash  contributions  in 
the  amount  of  $5,105  toward  this  gift 
with  $3,418  in  outstanding  pledges. 
This  amount  has  been  contributed  by 
25  of  our  120  class  members,  14  of 
whom  have  paid  their  pledges  in  full. 
We  have  reached  20  per  cent  of  our 
goal  in  the  past  five  years  since  this 
program  was  initiated  at  our  35th 
Reunion. 

Most  of  the  Class  members  partici- 
pated in  Alumni  Day  on  the  Hill  on 
Saturday. 

Those  who  were  able  to  come 
were: 

Frank  H.  Andrews 
Robert  and  Noriene  Barrett 
Edward  and  Ruth  Bayon 
Robert  and  Gertrude  Bumstead 
Benjamin  and  Marion  Chadwick 
Edward  S.  and  Mrs.  Coe 
Russell  and  Elizabeth  Corsini 
Harold  and  Anne  Marie  Cutler 
Albert  and  Doris  Demont 
William  and  Anne  Dennison 
Theodore  and  Martha  Fish 
Paul  and  Dorothy  Fittz 
Henry  and  Lucine  Friel 


CLASS  OF  1931 


M.  Dexter  Gleason 
Wallace  and  Mary  Gove 
Allan  and  Virginia  Hall 
Edwin  and  Barbara  Haskell 
John  and  Mary  Hinckcliffe 
Ralph  Hodgkinson 
Everett  E.  Johnson 
Trescott  and  Natalie  Larchar 
Otis  and  Mrs.  Mace 
John  and  Ruth  Maloney 
Richard  and  June  Marden 
Oliver  and  Margaret  Merrill 
Edward  and  Hazel  Rouse 
Trueman  L.  Sanderson 
George  and  Evelyn  Smith 
Herbert  and  Henrietta  Stewart 


Hurant  and  Anahid  Tashjian 
Robert  and  Marion  Taylor 
Francis  and  Nancy  Townsend 
Harry  and  Rita  Tyler 
Theodore  L.  Wanstall 
Robert  and  Ormell  Williamson 
Charles  and  Elizabeth  Woodward 
Gustav  E.  Mangsen 
Ben  Rice 

Russell  and  Mrs.  Libby 
Raymond  Guenther 
Frederick  A.  Farrar 


Edward  J.  Bayon 
Secretary 


aJhe  wpi  journal 


17 


COMPLETED  CAREERS 


Note:  Through  a  typographical  error, 
Julian  B.  Gouse  whose  obituary  was 
published  in  the  October  1971  issue  of 
the  Journal  was  identified  as  a  member 
of  the  Class  of  1914.  He  was  a  member 
of  the  Class  of  1944. 


JAMES  W.  FREEMAN,  '01 

James  W.  Freeman,  '01 ,  died  on  June  8, 
1971  in  W.  Hartford,  Conn.  He  was  94. 

Mr.  Freeman  was  born  in  Bangor,  Maine, 
March  7,  1877  and  attended  Moses  Brown 
and  Warren  High  Schools.  He  entered  WPI  in 
1897  and  was  graduated  in  1901  with  a 
degree  in  chemistry. 

Mr.  Freeman  was  a  high  school  teacher 
for  seven  years  and  in  1908  he  became 
principal  of  the  Noah  Webster  School  in 
Hartford  and  was  principal  of  the  West 
Middle  School  from  1914  until  his  retire- 
ment in  1944. 

He  leaves  a  daughter,  Miss  Sarah  Free- 
man, and  a  brother,  Arthur  W.  Freeman  of 
Chathamport,  Mass. 

LEWIS  E.  DICKINSON,  '03 

Lewis  E.  Dickinson,  88,  died  February 
12,  1971,  in  Boonton,  New  Jersey. 

Born  in  Whitinsville,  Mass.,  on  Novem- 
ber 19,  1882,  he  attended  Northbridge  High 
School  and  entered  WPI  in  1899.  An  electri- 
cal engineering  major,  he  was  graduated 
from  WPI  in  1903. 

He  was  employed  for  three  years  by  the 
General  Electric  Co.  Test  Dept.,  and  later  by 
General  Storage  Battery  Co.,  and  Westing- 
house  Storage  Battery  Co.  He  retired  in 
1948  from  Bell  Laboratories,  New  York, 
after  38  years  of  service. 

Mr.  Dickinson  was  a  member  of  the 
Telephone  Pioneers  of  America  and  was  on 
the  Board  of  Adjusters  and  the  Board  of 
Assessors  for  Boonton,  N.J. 

He  leaves  a  daughter,  Mrs.  Edward  Bald- 
win of  Boonton,  three  grandchildren  and 
four  great-grandchildren. 


P.  ALDEN  BEAMAN,  '07 

P.     Alden     Beaman     died     October     7, 
1971    in  Worcester,  Mass.,  a!  the  age  of  85. 


18 


Mr.  Beaman  was  born  at  Princeton, 
Mass.,  on  May  4,  1886.  After  attending 
Worcester  Academy  he  entered  WPI  in  1903 
and  graduated  with  a  BS  in  Mechanical 
Engineering  in  1907. 

He  served  as  an  engineer  with  the  Odell 
Manufacturing  Company  from  1907  to 
1909.  He  was  with  F.  P.  Sheldon  &  Co.,  for 
a  short  time  and  then  found  employment 
with  the  Willett  Sears  organization  from 
1909  to  1916.  George  W.  Prentiss  &  Co. 
named  him  superintendent  in  1916.  In  1928 
he  joined  the  Morgan  Construction  Co., 
retiring  from  that  company  in  1958  as 
department  manager. 

Mr.  Beaman  was  a  member  of  the 
American  Society  of  Mechanical  Engineers. 
While  in  retirement  in  Princeton,  Mass.,  he 
served  as  electric  light  commissioner  and 
library  trustee.  He  was  also  a  member  of  the 
Masonic  Order. 

He  is  survived  by  his  widow,  Charlotte 
M.  Beaman  and  daughter,  Mrs.  W.  B. 
Flanders  of  Babylon,  L.I.,  N.Y. 

CLIFTON  C.  QUIMBY,  '07 

Clifton  C.  Quimby  passed  away  on 
October  5,  1971  at  the  Blueberry  Lane 
Nursing  Home  in  Laconia,  N.H. 

Mr.  Quimby  was  born  in  Sandwich, 
N.H.,  on  February  17,  1884.  He  attended 
Worcester  English  High  and  entered  WPI  in 
1903.  After  graduating  from  WPI  in  1907 
with  a  degree  in  Electrical  Engineering,  he 
accepted  a  position  with  the  American 
Telephone  &  Telegraph  Company,  Long 
Lines  Dept.,  in  New  York  City.  He  remained 
with  A.  T.  &  T.,  throughout  his  working 
lifetime,  until  his  retirement  in  1950.  At 
retirement  he  was  general  superintendent  of 
motor  vehicles  and  supplies. 

Mr.  Quimby  was  a  member  of  Theta  Chi 
Fraternity.  From  1940  to  1947  he  was 
secretary  of  the  Selective  Service  Board  No. 
5  for  Essex  County,  N.J.  He  was  a  member 
of  the  Sons  of  the  American  Revolution. 

He  is  survived  by  his  widow,  Mrs. 
Beatrice  A.  Quimby. 

AVERY  SMITH, '08 
Avery  Smith  died  September  30,  1970, 
in   Kenmore,  New  York.  He  was  84  at  the 
time  of  his  death. 


Mr.  Smith  was  born  in  Grafton,  Mass., 
September  14,  1886  and  attended  Grafton 
High  School.  In  1904  he  entered  WPI  and 
graduated  in  1908  with  a  degree  in  chemis- 
try. 

He  was  employed  as  a  chemist  by 
Acheson  Graphite  Co.,  Niagara  Falls,  N.Y. 
In  December,  1908,  he  went  to  work  for  E. 
I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.,  a  career 
which  spanned  43  years. 

Mr.  Smith  was  a  member  of  the  F.  & 
A.M.,  the  R.A.M.  and  the  American  Chem- 
ical Society. 

JOHN  WOODCOCK,  '09 

John  Woodcock,  a  man  who  worked  39 
years  for  American  Telephone  &  Telegraph 
Co.,  has  passed  away  at  the  age  of  87.  He 
died  October  31,  1970  in  Andover,  N.J. 

A  native  of  Leicester,  Mass.,  he  attended 
Worcester  South  High  School  before  enter- 
ing WPI  in  1904,  where  he  majored  in 
electrical  engineering.  He  was  a  32nd  degree 
Mason. 

PHILIPC.  KNEIL, '11 

Philip  C.  Kneil  died  Sept.  13,  1971  in 
Napa,  California.  He  was  83. 

Mr.  Kneil  was  born  in  Ticonderoga, 
N.Y.,  on  April  24,  1888.  After  graduating 
from  Saratoga  Springs  High  School,  he 
entered  WPI  in  1907.  In  1911  he  received 
his  BS  degree  in  civil  engineering. 

During  his  lifetime  he  served  as  a  drafts- 
man for  B.  S.  Brown;  an  engineer  for  Smith 
&  Lovett  and  later  for  SMI  Engineering. 
From  1918  to  1919  he  was  a  sergeant  for 
the  U.S.  Army  in  France.  He  held  the 
positions  of  inspector,  fire  protection  repre- 
sentative, and  special  agent  for  the  Factory 
Insurance  Association  from  1919  until  his 
retirement  in  1956. 

Mr.  Kneil  was  a  member  of  Tau  Beta  Pi 
Scholastic  Honorary  and  the  Masonic  Order. 

He  is  survived  by  his  daughters,  Mrs. 
Mary  Sward  of  Napa,  California  and  Mrs. 
Jacob  Hotchkiss  of  Loudonville,  N.Y.;  a 
son,  Thomas  Kneil  of  Wichita,  Kan.;  a  sister, 
Miss  Caroline  Kneil  of  Dobbs  Ferry,  N.Y.; 
and  seven  grandchildren. 

CHARLES  L.  NEVENS,  '12 
Charles  L.  Nevens  died  May  7.  1971,  in 
Remsen,  New  York  at  the  age  of  81 . 

THE  WPI  JOURN 


., 


Born  on  December  31,  1889,  in  Lewis- 
ton,  Maine,  he  was  graduated  from  Lewiston 
High  School.  He  entered  WPI  in  1908  and 
received  a  degree  in  civil  engineering  in 
1912. 

He  worked  for  three  years  as  an  in- 
spector for  Factory  Insurance  Association  in 
Hartford,  Connecticut.  He  also  worked  for 
17  years  for  the  Hartford  Fire  Insurance 
Co.,  first  as  an  assistant  superintendent- 
special  risk  department;  and  later  as  a 
superintendent-special  risk  department  in 
the  Chicago  office.  At  the  time  of  his 
retirement  in  1956,  Mr.  Nevens  was  presi- 
dent of  the  General  Underwriters  Insurance 
Agency  where  he  had  worked  for  twenty- 
four  years. 

Mr.  Nevens  belonged  to  the  National 
Fire  Protection  Association,  the  Unitarian 
Church  and  the  Masons. 

NED  F.  NUTTER,  "13 

Ned  F.  Nutter  died  February  6,  1971  in 
Truro,  Nova  Scotia,  at  the  age  of  83. 

A  native  of  Farmington,  N.H.,  he  was 
I  born  on  June  13,  1887  and  attended  Port- 
I  land  (Maine)  High  School.  He  received  his 
(degree  from  WPI  in  1913  in  civil  engi- 
I  neering. 

He  worked  as  a  draftsman  for  Chicago  & 
IJoliet  Electric  Co.  and  as  an  inspector  for 
Western  Union  Telegraph  Co. 

He  was  a  member  of  Alpha  Tau  Omega 
(fraternity  and  was  a  registered  professional 
lengineer  in  Nova  Scotia. 

CARL  F.  FRITCH, '14 

Carl  F.  Fritch,  a  former  construction 
engineering  executive,  passed  away  on  June 
16,1971. 

He  was  born  June  30,  1892  in  Wollas- 
ton,  Mass.  After  graduating  from  Attleboro 
High  School  he  entered  WPI  in  1910.  Upon 
eceiving  his  BS  in  civil  engineering  in  1914 
he  accepted  a  position  with  the  National 
Fireproofing  Company,  New  York  City. 

His  next  employment  was  with  Westing- 
house,  Church,  &  Kerr.  From  1918  until 
1923  he  served  in  the  U.S.  Navy  at  the 
Bureau  of  Yards  &  Docks,  Navy  Dept., 
Washington,  D.C.  The  Turner  Construction 
Company,  New  York  City,  named  him 
purchasing  agent  and  project  manager  in 
1923,  positions  which  he  held  until  1946. 
Later  he  was  made  president  of  Federal 
Constructors,  Incorporated,         Chicago, 

Illinois.  In  1950  he  accepted  the  presidency 
of  the  E.  W.  Sproul  Construction  Company, 
Iso  in  Chicago.  Prior  to  his  death  he  was 
with  Pepper  Construction  Co. 

Mr.  Fritch  was  a  member  of  Skull  and 
Tau  Beta  Pi  Scholastic  Honorary.  He  also 
belonged   to    Alpha  Tau  Omega   Fraternity. 

Among  his  survivors  are  his  widow,  Mrs. 
Ida  Marble  Fritch,  and  two  sons,  Robert  F. 
Fritch  of  Palatine,  Illinois,  and  CARL  F. 
FRITCH  of  the  Class  of  1940. 


EARL  VAN  VLIET  HIGBEE,  '15 

Earl  V.  Higbee,  78,  retired  assistant  to 
the  general  manager  of  Stanley  Tools,  divi- 
sion of  the  Stanley  Works,  died  August  7, 
1971   in  Westerley,  R.I.  after  a  short  illness. 

A  native  of  Northampton,  Mass.,  he 
attended  Northampton  High  School  and 
entered  WPI  in  1911.  He  was  graduated 
from  Sheffield  Scientific  School  of  Yale 
University  in  1915.  He  worked  40  years  for 
Stanley  Tools  Co.,  beginning  work  on  pro- 
duction, engineering  and  special  manage- 
ment assignments  for  the  Stanley  Works 
Hardware  division  in  1920.  In  1925  he  was 
transferred  to  the  engineering  department  of 
Stanley  Tools,  and  later  that  year  to  a 
special  research  department,  where  he  was 
supervisor  for  several  years.  He  was  later 
appointed  as  head  of  the  engineering  depart- 
ment and  supervisor  of  maintenance  and  the 
tool  room.  In  1927,  he  became  supervisor  of 
several  other  factory  departments  and  was 
named  superintendent  in  1929  and  general 
superintendent  in  1943. 

During  World  War  I,  he  was  a  second 
lieutenant  in  the  Signal  Corps  and  Motor 
Transport  Corps,  and  during  World  War  II 
was  coordinator  of  Civil  Defense  for  New 
Britain  factories. 

A  member  and  one-time  president  of  the 
Rotary  Club,  he  was  also  an  incorporator  of 
New  Britain  General  Hospital  and  a  member 
of  the  YMCA.  He  had  been  a  member  and 
past  director  of  the  Yale  Club. 

He  leaves  his  wife,  Gertrude  Kadue 
Higbee. 

CARLTON  R.  SMITH,  '15 

Carlton  R.  Smith  died  June  5,  1971  in 
Enfield,  Conn. 

Born  in  South  Hadley  Falls,  Mass.,  on 
Sept.  23,  1893,  he  was  educated  at  Tech- 
nical High,  Springfield,  and  later  attended 
WPI. 

During  his  lifetime  he  saw  service  with 
Adams  and  Royton,  Inc.;  D.  O'Connell  & 
Sons;  and  the  State  Department  in  Spring- 
field, Mass.,  where  he  was  a  foreman.  Later 
he  was  with  Charles  D.  Farnsworth,  Inc.; 
Converse  Carlisle  Coal  Co.,  and  the  Spring- 
field Coal  Co. 

Mr.  Smith  was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma 
Kappa  and  the  Masonic  Order. 

He  is  survived  by  his  widow,  Mrs. 
Mildred  Lay  Smith,  and  two  daughters. 

RALPHS.  FARNUM, '16 

Ralph  S.  Farnum  died  April  13,  1971  at 
the  age  of  77.  Born  October  4,  1893  in 
North  Andover,  he  attended  Johnson  High 
School  there. 

He  worked  30  years  for  U.  S.  Rubber 
Co.,  first  in  Hartford,  Conn,  and  later  in 
Detroit,  Mich.  Prior  to  that  he  worked  for 
three  years  as  an  engineer  for  John  and 
Stevens  Co.  in  Lowell,  Mass.,  for  the  Fuller 
Brush  Co.  in  Hartford,  and  Reed  and  Prince 
Co.  in  Worcester.  He  was  a  sergeant  in  the 
U.S.  Army  and  a  World  War  I  veteran. 


fE 


WPI  JOURNAL 


A  member  of  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon  frater- 
nity, he  also  belonged  to  the  Society  of 
Technical  Safety  Engineers,  the  National 
Safety  Council,  the  American  Legion,  and 
the  Masons. 

THOMAS  W.  FARNSWORTH,  '16 

Thomas  W.  Farnsworth  died  in  October 
of  1971. 

He  was  born  in  Brookline,  Mass.,  on 
August  23,  1891  and  later  attended  the 
Tilton  School,  Tilton,  N.H.  In  1912  he 
entered  WPI  and  graduated  with  a  BS  in 
Mechanical  Engineering  in  1916. 

During  his  working  life  he  was  associ- 
ated with  Nordyke  and  Marmon  Co.,  Indian- 
apolis, Ind.;  served  from  1918  to  1920  in 
the  U.S.  Army  with  Near  East  Relief  in 
Turkey;  and  was  also  employed  by  the 
Hartford  Machine  Screw  Co.;  Fuller  Brush 
Co.;  Sea  Sled  Corporation;  and  Bendix 
Aviation  Corp.  After  retiring  from  Bendix  in 
1961  he  was  with  M.  G.  Steele  Co.,  Rome, 
N.Y. 

Mr.  Farnsworth  was  a  member  of  Alpha 
Tau  Omega,  the  Hartford  Engineers  Club, 
and  the  Society  of  Naval  Architects  and 
Marine  Engineers. 

He  is  survived  by  his  wife,  Mrs.  Margaret 
Mowbray  Farnsworth  and  two  sons,  Thomas 
Webster  and  Alpheus  Mowbray. 

WALFRED  A.  WALLSTEN,  '16 

Walfred  A.  Wallsten,  77,  died  September 
10  in  Worcester,  Mass. 

Born  in  Worcester  on  March  1,  1894,  he 
was  educated  at  South  High  School  and 
graduated  from  WPI  in  1916  with  a  degree 
in  Civil  Engineering.  Early  in  life  he  was 
employed  by  the  New  York,  New  Haven  & 
Hartford  Railroad  and  the  F.  T.  Ley  Co. 

Retiring  12  years  ago,  he  worked  39 
years  as  division  engineer  for  the  American 
Steel  and  Wire  Division,  U.S.  Steel  Corpora- 
tion, Worcester.  He  was  a  World  War  I  Army 
veteran,  having  served  as  a  lieutenant  in 
France  and  Germany  in  the  Engineering 
Corps. 

Mr.  Wallsten  was  a  member  of  the 
Worcester  Tech  Old  Timers  Club;  Shrews- 
bury Finance  Committee;  and  the  Morning 
Star  Lodge  of  Masons  from  which  he  re- 
ceived his  50-year  medal  this  year.  He  was 
also  a  member  of  the  Greendale  Retired 
Men's  Club  of  St.  Petersburg,  Fla.,  and  the 
Connecticut  Valley  Shell  Club. 

He  leaves  his  widow,  Mrs.  Hildur  Park 
Wallsten;  a  son,  Richard  P.  Wallsten  of 
Sudbury,  Mass.;  two  daughters,  Mrs.  Harry 
Drake  of  Franklin,  Ohio;  and  Mrs.  Wilbert 
T.  Moore,  Jr.,  Shrewsbury,  Mass.;  a  brother, 
George  B.  Wallsten  and  a  sister,  Mrs.  C.  R. 
Lindgren,  both  of  Holden,  Mass.;  and  six 
grandchildren. 

EDWARD  L.  KRANZ,  '18 

Edward  L.  Kranz,  75,  died  February  10, 
1971  in  Worcester,  where  he  had  lived  for 
45  years. 


19 


Born  in  Fall  River,  Mass.,  he  attended 
B.M.C.  Durfee  High  School  there.  He  gradu- 
ated in  1914,  at  which  time  he  entered  WPI. 
He  was  graduated  from  the  school  in  1918 
with  a  degree  in  civil  engineering. 

He  was  a  registered  professional  engineer 
in  Massachusetts.  For  42  years  he  was 
employed  by  Eastern  Bridge  Structural  Steel 
Co.,  and  for  the  last  three  years  by  United 
Structural  Steel  Co. 

He  was  a  member  of  First  Baptist 
Church  and  the  Kiwanis  Club.  He  also 
belonged  to  Tau  Beta  Pi  and  Sigma  Xi. 

His  wife,  Mrs.  Agnes  (Janson)  Kranz, 
died  in  1956. 

He  leaves  a  son,  Donald  J.  of  Wayland, 
and  a  brother,  Harold  P.  of  Squantum. 

ALDEN  G.  CARLSON,  '19 

Alden  G.  Carlson  passed  away  Sept.  28, 
1971   in  Worcester,  Mass.,  at  the  age  of  73. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester  on  July  2, 
1898,  attended  South  High  School,  and 
graduated  from  WPI  in  1919. 

Mr.  Carlson  was  a  licensed  electrical 
engineer  and  had  served  in  various  capacities 
throughout  the  years  with  John  A.  Stevens; 
Springfield  Ornamental  Iron  Works;  Eastern 
Bridge;  and  Richard  French  Iron  Works.  In 
1933  he  joined  Riley  Stoker  Corp., 
Worcester,  and  remained  there  as  a  struc- 
tural engineer  until  his  retirement.  He  was  a 
second  infantry   lieutenant  in  World  War  I. 

He  was  a  member  of  Alpha  Tau  Omega, 
Tau  Beta  Pi,  Skull,  the  Masonic  Order,  the 
Worcester  Engineers  Society,  and  the  Ameri- 
can Institute  of  Steel  Construction. 

ALLEN  D.  HAMMOND,  '19 

Allen  D.  Hammond,  74,  died  April  29, 
1971  after  a  year's  illness. 

He  was  born  February  23,  1897  in 
Brockton,  Mass.  In  1915  he  was  graduated 
from  Fairhaven  (Mass.)  High  School,  and 
later  that  year  began  his  studies  at  WPI, 
majoring  in  electrical  engineering. 

He  served  in  the  U.S.  Army  in  the  States 
and  in  England  during  World  War  I.  During 
his  business  career  he  was  a  cotton  salesman 
for  CO.  Foster  &  Co.,  New  Bedford,  Mass. 
and  later  as  a  supervisor  for  John  Hancock 
Mutual  Life  Insurance  Co.  of  Boston,  retir- 
ing from  that  company  in  1957. 

He  was  a  member  of  Lambda  Chi  Alpha 
fraternity. 

JOHN  S.  NASON,  '21 

John  S.  Nason  passed  away  January  4, 
1971  in  Otis,  Mass.  He  would  have  been  73 
last  February. 

Born  Feb.  3,  1898  in  Westboro,  Mass., 
he  attended  the  Pawling  School  in  N.H. 
before  entering  WPI  in  191  7. 

He  was  associated  with  the  J.S.  Nason 
Co.,  of  Westboro. 

Mr.  Nason  was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma 
Kappa  fraternity  and  was  a  Mason. 

His  wife,  Alice  Broadbent  Nason,  died  in 
1952. 


EDWARD  L.  CAMPBELL,  '22 

Edward  L.  Campbell,  executive,  died 
July  21 ,  1971  in  Guelph,  Ontario,  Canada  at 
the  age  of  70. 

He  was  born  in  Yonkers,  N.Y.,  on  March 
24,  1901  and  attended  Westfield,  Mass., 
High  School.  In  1922  he  graduated  from 
WPI  with  a  BS  degree  in  civil  engineering. 

From  1922  to  1926  he  worked  as  an 
engineer  for  the  Illinois  Division  of  High- 
ways. In  1966  he  retired  as  President  and 
General  Manager  of  Armco  Drainage  and 
Metal  Products  of  Canada,  Ltd.,  after  40 
years  of  service. 

Mr.  Campbell  was  a  member  of  Lambda 
Chi  Alpha,  the  Association  of  Professional 
Engineers  of  Ontario,  and  the  Engineers 
Club  of  Toronto.  He  was  past-president  of 
the  Guelph  Chamber  of  Commerce,  Guelph 
Rotary  Club,  Guelph  Country  Club,  Junc- 
tion Railway  Co.,  and  the  Corrugated  Metal 
Pipe  Institute. 

He  is  survived  by  his  widow,  Mrs.  Goldie 
Brierton  Campbell;  a  son,  Robert  E.  Camp- 
bell of  Toronto;  a  son,  William  L.  Campbell 
of  New  York;  daughter,  Mrs.  Malcolm 
MacKinnon  of  Short  Hills,  N.J.;  sisters,  Mrs. 
L.  D.  Carter  of  Charlestown,  N.H.  and  Mrs. 
B.  T.  Richardson,  Goshen,  N.H.;  and  six 
grandchildren. 

GEORGES.  LIEBECK, '23 

George  S.  Liebeck  died  in  DuPage,  III. 
on  August  23,  1970  at  the  age  of  69.  Born 
in  Holyoke,  Mass.  on  April  23,  1901,  he 
attended  High  School  in  Springfield,  Mass. 
and  Chester  (Pa.)  High  School.  He  entered 
WPI  in  1919,  graduating  four  years 
later  with  a  degree  in  electrical  engineering. 

For  thirty-seven  years,  Mr.  Liebeck 
worked  as  an  engineer  with  the  American 
Telephone  and  Telegraph  Co. 

Earlier  he  had  taught  electrical  engineer- 
ing at  the  University  of  Missouri,  the  Univer- 
sity of  Minnesota  and  the  University  of 
Nebraska. 

He  was  a  member  of  Sigma  Xi. 

RUSSELL  S.  DAVENPORT,  '24 

It  was  recently  reported  that  Russell  D. 
Davenport  passed  away  May  27,  1969  in 
Lexington,  Mass.,  at  the  age  of  67  years. 

Born  on  February  18,  1902,  he  attended 
Staunton  Military  Academy  and  WPI  in  later 
years.  He  was  self-employed  as  proprietor  of 
Davenport's  Garden  Center  &  Flower  Shop 
in  Lexington. 

Mr.  Davenport  was  a  member  of  Phi 
Gamma  Delta. 

ARTHUR  G.  RAND,  '26 
Arthur   G.    Rand,   self-employed   invest- 
ment  broker,   died   March   26,    1971    at  his 
home  in  Wellesley,  Mass.  He  was  68. 

A  native  of  Brooklyn,  N.Y.,  he  lived  in 
Portsmouth,  N.H.  34  years.  Graduating 
from  Portsmouth  (New  Hampshire)  High 
School   in   1922,  he  entered  WPI  that  year. 


In  addition  to  ownership  of  the  Arthur 
Rand  Co.,  he  had  worked  for  the  Boston 
Safe  Deposit  and  Trust  Co.  as  a  teller,  and 
for  Blyth  &  Co.,  Inc.  and  John  Calhoun  Co. 
as  a  salesman. 

While  at  WPI  he  was  a  member  of  Sigma 
Phi  Epsilon  fraternity. 

Mr.  Rand  leaves  a  son,  Dr.  Arthur  G.,  Jr. 
of  Kingston,  R.I.;  two  daughters,  Mrs. 
Martha  Nacke  of  Holyoke  and  Mrs.  Mary  C. 
Streb  of  Dobbs  Ferry,  N.Y.;  and  nine 
grandchildren. 

HOWARD  B.  SMITH,  '26 

Howard  B.  Smith,  once  president  of  The 
Middletown  Savings  Bank  in  Conn,  and  a 
man  active  in  civic  affairs,  died  February  4, 
1971  in  Old  Saybrook,  Conn,  after  a  long 
illness.  He  was  67. 

Born  in  Boston,  January  3,  1904,  he 
attended  South  High  School  in  Worcester. 
In  1922  he  entered  WPI,  majoring  in  civil 
engineering. 

He  worked  with  the  bank  for  22  years 
and  under  his  guidance  the  bank's  assets 
grew  from  $23  million  to  assets  exceeding 
$1 12  million  at  the  time  of  his  retirement  in 
1969.  Mr.  Smith  began  as  treasurer  and 
chief  executive  officer  of  the  institution  and 
after  four  years  was  elected  president  and 
chief  executive  officer,  remaining  in  that 
position  until  his  retirement  in  April,  1969. 

He  was  a  leader  in  the  savings  bank 
industry  for  many  years,  working  as  a 
member  of  the  faculty  of  the  graduate 
school  of  banking  at  Rutgers  University  for 
twelve  years  and  later  on  the  faculty  of  the 
graduate  school  of  savings  banking  at  Brown 
University  for  two  years.  He  belonged  to  the 
Savings  Banks  Association  of  Connecticut 
and  the  National  Association  of  Mutual 
Savings  Banks,  serving  on  several  com- 
mittees. 

He  lived  in  Middletown  for  22  years, 
during  which  time  he  was  active  in  numer- 
ous civic  activities.  He  was  president  and 
director  of  the  Northern  Middlesex  YMCA, 
general  campaign  chairman  and  president  of 
The  United  Fund,  and  was  a  director  of 
Middlesex  Memorial  Hospital,  Middletown 
Industrial  Development  Corp.  and  the  Rock- 
fall  Corp.  He  also  was  a  vice  president  and 
secretary  of  the  Midstate  Regional  Planning 
Agency,  serving  as  one  of  the  original 
agency  officers,  and  was  the  first  secretary 
of  the  Middletown  Parking  Authority.  In 
1968  he  was  named  Outstanding  Citizen  by 
the  Chamber  of  Commerce  for  his  business 
leadership,  community  contributions  and 
humanitarian  efforts.  He  served  several 
terms  on  the  Republican  Town  Committee 
and  was  party  candidate  for  the  State 
Legislature  in  1962. 

He  leaves  his  widow,  Florence  B.  Smith; 
a  son,  H.  Morton  of  Worcester;  two 
brothers,  J.  Frederick  of  Arlington,  Texas, 
and  Leslie  of  Tallahassee,  Fla.,  and  three 
grandchildren. 


20 


.) 


VERNE  K.  PITFIELD, '27 

Verne  K.  Pitfield,  manager  of  the 
Newark  branch  of  the  Great  Western  Life 
Assurance  Co.  for  24  years,  passed  away  this 
summer.  He  was  64. 

Born  July  9,  1906  in  Millis,  Mass.,  he 
attended  Classical  High  School  in  Worcester 
before  entering  WPI  in  1923.  He  was  gradu- 
ated with  the  class  of  1927  with  a  degree  in 
civil  engineering. 

He  was  a  member  of  Theta  Chi  frater- 
nity and  Sigma  Xi. 

He  leaves  his  wife.  Rose  Gallaher  Pit- 
field;  two  daughters,  Mrs.  Peter  Bayer  of 
Berwyn,  Pa.  and  Miss  Marjorie  Pitfield  of 
Maplewood,  N.J.;  two  sons,  David  of  West- 
field,  Mass.  and  Philip  of  New  York  City, 
and  five  grandchildren. 

EDWARD  S.  COURVILLE,  '29 

Edward  S.  Courville,  65,  passed  away 
September  1 ,  1971  in  Torrington,  Conn. 

He  was  born  October  27,  1905  in 
Cambridge,  Mass.,  and  attended  North  High 
School,  Worcester.  After  graduating  from 
WPI  in  1929  with  a  degree  in  mechanical 
engineering,  he  went  with  the  Hendey 
Machine  Company  for  two  years. 

In  1931  he  joined  Torrington  Company, 
retiring  as  plant  manager  of  the  Excelsior 
plant  in  1970  after  40  years  of  service. 

Mr.  Courville  was  a  member  of  the  B. 
P.O.E.,  City  Club,  and  Litchfield  County 
Engineers  Club. 

He  leaves  his  widow,  Mrs.  Irene  Lemire 
Courville;  two  brothers,  Charles  and  William 
Courville;  a  sister,  Mrs.  Charles  Casey,  all  of 
Worcester,  Mass.,  and  several  nieces  and 
nephews. 

J.  HOWARD  GERMAIN,  '29 

J.  Howard  Germain,  vice  president  of 
Johnson  &  Higgins,  New  York  City,  died 
October  7,  1971. 

He  was  born  on  August  13,  1906  in 
Worcester,  Mass.  He  attended  South  High 
School  and  graduated  from  WPI  in  1929 
with  a  degree  in  Mechanical  Engineering. 

After  serving  as  assistant  manager  of  the 
Factory  Insurance  Association,  he  became 
associated  with  Johnson  &  Higgins  in  1955, 
a  firm  for  which  he  was  an  executive  at  the 
time  of  his  death. 

Mr.  Germain  was  a  member  of  Sigma 
Alpha  Epsilon.  He  was  the  brother  of  JOHN 
E.  GERMAIN,  '38. 

OLIVER  B.MERRILL, '31 

Oliver  B.  Merrill,  manufacturer,  passed 
away  on  September  3,  1971  at  South 
Hampton,  N.H.  He  was  61 . 

He  was  born  Nov.  27,  1909  in  Ames- 
bury,  Mass.,  and  attended  Amesbury  High 
School.  After  receiving  his  Mechanical  Engi- 
neering Degree  from  WPI  in  1931,  he  was 
employed  by  the  Bailey  Co.,  where  by  1946 
he  was  advanced  to  the  position  of  assistant 

E  WPI  JOURNAL 


chief  engineer.  At  the  time  of  his  death  he 
was  president  and  treasurer  of  Warren  Manu- 
facturing Corporation,  Newfields,  N.H.  He 
was  also  a  founder  of  Warren  Corp.  which 
manufactures  parts  for  automobiles. 

Mr.  Merrill  was  a  member  of  Warren 
Lodge,  A.  F.  &  A.  M.,  the  South  Hampton 
Planning  Board,  and  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon.  He 
was  an  antique  car  enthusiast,  past  president 
of  the  Profile  Automobile  League  of  New 
Hampshire,  and  a  member  of  the  Rolls 
Royce  Owners  Club. 

Besides  his  wife,  Margaret  O'Neil  Merrill, 
he  leaves  a  son,  John  W.  Merrill,  South 
Hampton;  a  daughter.  Miss  Amanda  A. 
Merrill,  South  Hampton;  two  sisters,  Mrs. 
David  C.  Bailey,  Amesbury  and  Mrs.  William 
B.  Walker,  Northboro,  Mass.;  two  grandsons 
and  several  nieces  and  nephews. 

ESTUS  B.  HOWARD,  '32 

Estus  B.  Howard  died  on  April  18, 
1971 .  He  was  60  years  old. 

Born  on  December  8,  1910  in 
Worcester,  Mass.,  he  attended  Grafton, 
Mass.,  High  School  and  WPI.  After  holding 
several  jobs  as  a  foreman  in  the  Worcester 
area,  he  moved  to  Florida  in  the  1940's  and 
became  secretary-treasurer  of  the  Waverly 
Growers  Co-operative,  one  of  the  largest 
individual  co-operatives  in  the  United 
States. 

FREDERICK  F.  WHITE,  JR.,  '40 

Frederick  F.  White,  a  research  chemist 
with  the  electrochemical  department  of  the 
E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Co.,  died  March 
28,  1971   in  Niagara  Falls,  N.Y.  He  was  52. 

A  native  of  Aberdeen,  Mississippi,  he 
attended  Aberdeen  High  School.  He  was 
graduated  from  high  school  in  1937  and 
from  WPI  in  1940  with  a  degree  in  electrical 
engineering.  He  later  did  graduate  work  at 
the  University  of  Buffalo  and  Pennsylvania. 

He  began  work  for  du  Pont  in  1945 
after  serving  in  the  Army  Air  Corps  in  which 
he  had  been  a  pilot  from  1940.  Before  the 
war  he  worked  for  Virginia  Electric  &  Power 
Co.  in  Richmond,  Va.  as  a  distribution 
engineer. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  American 
Institute  of  Electrical  Engineers,  the  Re- 
search Society  of  America  and  the  Delaware 
Astronomical  Society.  He  was  a  brother  of 
Alpha  Tau  Omega  fraternity. 

Surviving  are  his  widow,  Mrs.  Marion 
White;  a  son,  Hudson  of  Toronto;  a 
daughter,  Bowden  Lou;  a  brother,  Arthur  H. 
of  New  Mexico;  and  his  mother,  Mrs. 
Judson  Chastain  of  Grenada,  Miss. 

JOHN  N.  WHOLEAN,  '44 

Word  has  been  received  of  the  death  of 
John  N.  Wholean  who  died  at  the  age  of  49 
in  Wise,  on  October  17,  1970. 

Born  June  7,  1921,  he  was  a  native  of 
Springfield,  Mass.  and  graduated  from  Mon- 
son   (Mass.)  Academy  before  entering  WPI. 


He  was  graduated  from  WPI  in  1947  with  a 
degree  in  mechanical  engineering.  While 
here,  his  activities  included  participation  in 
intramural  swimming  and  in  the  Nautical 
Association. 

He  served  with  the  United  States  Naval 
Reserve  from  1942  to  1946  and  rose  to  the 
rank  of  Quartermaster  2/c.  He  was  later 
employed  by  The  Torrington  Co.,  Bearing 
Divisions,  Milwaukee,  Wis. 

He  was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa 
fraternity  and  Skull. 

RICHARD  E.  CAVANAUGH,  '52 

Richard  E.  Cavanaugh,  vice-president  in 
charge  of  contracts  for  San-Vel  Concrete 
Corp.  in  Littleton,  Mass.,  died  Feb.  15, 
1971  in  Concord,  Mass.  after  a  brief  illness. 
He  was  40  years  old  at  the  time  of  his  death. 

A  native  of  Ware,  Mass.,  he  was  presi- 
dent of  his  senior  class  at  Palmer  High 
School  in  Palmer,  Mass.  before  entering  WPI 
in  1948.  A  graduate  of  the  class  of  1952,  he 
majored  in  civil  engineering  and  was  a 
member  of  Phi  Kappa  Theta  fraternity  and 
Pi  Delta  Epsilon.  While  at  WPI  he  joined  the 
Tech  News,  the  Newman  Club,  and  the 
Orchestra  and  Band  and  was  also  a  student 
member  of  the  American  Society  of  Civil 
Engineers. 

He  was  a  registered  professional  engineer 
in  Massachusetts  and  Iowa  and  was  a  mem- 
ber of  the  American  Society  of  Civil  Engi- 
neers. He  was  a  director  of  the  American 
Concrete  Institute,  chairman  of  the  Fire 
Rating  Committee  of  the  American  Con- 
crete Institute,  a  member  of  the  Fire  Rating 
Committee  of  the  Pre-Stressed  Concrete 
Institute,  and  treasurer  of  the  Pre-Stressed 
Concrete  Association  of  New  England. 
Active  in  civic  affairs,  he  was  a  charter 
member  of  the  Littleton  Rotary  Club,  a 
member  of  the  Littleton  Permanent  School 
Building  Committee  and  member  and  past 
chairman  of  the  Littleton  School  Planning 
Committee. 

He  leaves  his  widow,  Madeline  Guenther 
Cavanaugh  of  Palmer,  Mass.;  two  sons, 
Garrett  T.  P.  who  entered  WPI  in  the  fall  of 
1971,  and  Richard  E.  Cavanaugh,  Jr.,  both 
of  Littleton. 


21 


YOUR  CLASS  AND  OTHERS 


These  class  notes  are  based  on  information 
received  in  the  Alumni  Office  up  to  Novem- 
ber 10,  1971. 


1896 

CLIFFORD  RAYMOND  HARRIS  of 
the  Class  of  1896  has  reached  a  goal  that 
most  of  us  can  only  dream  about.  On 
October  12,  1971,  "Hink"  as  he  is  known 
by  his  friends  celebrated  his  100th  birthday. 

In  order  to  reach  this  goal  he  admits 
that  he  had  a  number  of  factors  in  his  favor. 
First  he  was  fortunate  to  have  "chosen" 
long-lived  grandparents.  He  also  decided 
early  in  life  not  to  tempt  fate  —  he  neither 
smokes  nor  drinks. 

"Hink",  who  has  been  a  resident  of 
Walnut  Creek,  Calif.,  since  1950,  was  born 
in  1871  in  York,  Nebraska.  A  few  years 
prior  to  his  birth  his  father  had  gone  to 
Nebraska  to  survey  and  help  lay  out  that 
state  and  had  subsequently  decided  to  settle 
there. 

The  family  moved  to  New  Hampshire 
when  Harris  was  still  a  youngster.  Later  he 
graduated  from  high  school  in  Clinton, 
Mass.  Following  graduation  he  worked  as  a 
clerk  for  a  time.  He  then  entered  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute  where  he  was  awarded 
a  degree  in  Mechanical  Engineering  in  1896. 

Soon  after  graduation  he  helped  to  build 
locomotives  in  Philadelphia,  Pa.  Later  he 
taught  at  WPI  for  several  years.  Worcester 
was  then  truly  his  home.  In  the  following 
years  he  held  a  series  of  jobs  in  the 
Worcester  area. 

After  his  teaching  stint  he  took  a  job  as 
chief  draftsman  for  the  Standard  Plunger 
Elevator  Co.  and  then  served  as  an  inspector 
for  American  Car  and  Foundry.  His  next 
Worcester  position  was  with  Ralph  Morgan, 
the  first  manufacturer  of  three-ton  trucks. 
While  at  the  latter  post  he  suffered  an  injury 
that  led  to  his  moving  to  a  150-acre  farm  in 
Millbury,  Mass.  There  for  41  years  he  raised 
peach  crops  and  Holstein  cattle. 

During  his  Millbury  residence,  "Hink" 
served  as  town  moderator  for  five  years. 
Finally,  in  1950,  he  sold  his  Millbury  farm 
and  moved  to  California  to  be  nearer  his 
family.  His  wife  of  59  years,  the  former 
Anna  Brown,  died  at  the  age  of  87  in  1959. 


Today  he  lives  in  his  own  quarters  at  the 
home  of  his  daughter,  Mrs.  Bess  MacKamey 
of  Walnut  Creek.  His  son,  JOSEPH  P. 
HARRIS,  '27,  lives  in  Los  Angeles. 

Harris  still  leads  an  active  life.  A  mem- 
ber of  his  local  senior  citizens'  club,  he 
participated  in  trips  to  Alaska,  Hawaii,  and 
Mexico  while  in  his  90's.  Although  a  recent 
fall  has  left  him  with  limited  walking  ability, 
he  continues  to  participate  in  the  club's 
meetings  and  card  games.  His  fellow  mem- 
bers often  mention  the  many  favors  that 
their  good  friend  "Hink"  has  done  for  them 
through  the  years. 

CLIFFORD  RAYMOND  HARRIS  at 
the  age  of  100  years  has  a  motto  that  others 
might  do  well  to  follow.  After  the  many 
changes  that  he  has  seen  during  his  lifetime 
he  says,  "I  don't  worry  much  about  things 
now." 

1907 

DONALD  H.  MACE  is  currently  residing 
in  Sarasota,  Florida. 

1912 

HARRISON  G.  BROWN  writes  that 
classmate  HARLAND  STUART  (and  Mrs. 
Stuart)  became  great  grandparents  in  July. 
Harl  is  now  a  deacon  and  member  of  the 
building  committee  of  his  church.  He  also 
keeps  in  good  physical  condition  repairing 
concrete  walks  for  his  neighbors.  .  .  F.  HOL- 
MAN  WARING  was  named  as  honorary 
member  of  the  Water  Pollution  Control 
Federation  in  October.  The  honor  came  in 
recognition  of  his  notable  career  as  a  sani- 
tary engineer  for  the  State  of  Ohio  for  35 
years.  A  life  member  of  the  Water  Pollution 
Control  Federation,  in  1960  he  received  the 
Federation's  Charles  Alvin  Emerson  Medal 
for  outstanding  service  to  the  field. 

1927 

ELLSWORTH  B.  CARPENTER  reports 
that  he  is  retired  but  does  see  part-time  duty 
as  Vice  President  and  Director  of  Utility 
Service  &  Maintenance,  Inc.  in  Clayton, 
Mo.  .  .  DONALD  DODKIN  is  retired  and 
living  in  Eastham,  Maine. 

1928 

JOSEPH  F.  EMONDS  has  been  ill  for 
several  months  and  would  greatly  appreciate 
hearing  from  his  classmates.  His  address  is: 
Laurec  Manor  Rest  Home,  Chestnut  Street, 
Manchester,  Conn.  06040.  .  .  FREDERICK 
H.  KNIGHT,  vice  president,  secretary 
and  corporate  counsel  of  Corning  Glass 
Works,  retired  on  October  6th.  He  will 
continue  to  serve  as  corporation  consultant. 


Prior  to  accepting  his  position  with  Corning 
he  was  a  test  engineer  for  General  Electric 
Company  and  also  a  patent  examiner  with 
the  U.S.  Patent  Office  in  Washington,  D.C. 
A  graduate  of  George  Washington  University 
Law  School,  he  has  been  admitted  to 
practice  before  the  United  States  Courts  for 
the  District  of  Columbia,  the  Supreme 
Court  of  the  United  States,  the  U.S.  Court 
of  Customs  and  Patent  Appeals,  and  the 
U.S.  Patent  Office.  .  .  Laconia,  N.H.,  is  the 
address  of  WALTON  P.  LEWIS,  who  is  now 
a  real  estate  agent  for  Eagles  Mere  Realty  in 
Gilford,  N.H. 

1929 

Congratulations  to  the  WAYNE  S. 
BERRYS  who  have  been  awarded  the 
Teddy  Roosevelt  award  for  1971  for  their 
long  and  devoted  volunteer  service  at  the 
Nassau  County  Medical  Center  in  East 
Meadow,  N.Y.  They  received  the  award 
prior  to  their  moving  to  Spring  Hill,  Florida 
.  .  .  HALBERT  E.  PIERCE,  JR.,  Director  of 
Planning  for  New  England  Power  Planning, 
West  Springfield,  Mass.,  now  lives  on  Bay- 
berry  Lane,  in  West  Millbury,  Mass. 

1930 

Having  retired  from  his  position  with 
the  Atlantic-Richfield  Co.,  NORMAN  A. 
BUTTERFIELD  now  resides  in  Mexico, 
N.Y.  .  .  After  retiring  from  the  General  Elec- 
tric Co.,  in  Bloomington,  Ind.,  JOHN  E. 
LAMPRON  has  moved  to  West  Springfield, 
Mass. 

1931 

TRUEMAN  L.  SANDERSON  has  retired 
after  serving  37  years  with  the  New  England 
Telephone  and  Telegraph  Co. 

1932 

Living  in  Cromwell,  Conn.,  is  HENRY 
E.  CARLSON,  who  is  a  sales  associate  with 
Kimball  Associates  of  Hartford. 

1933 
FRANK  F.  DODGE  reports  that  he  is 
consulting  actuary  and  vice  president  of 
Nelson  &  Warren,  Inc.,  of  Chicago.  .  .  We 
have  learned  from  J.  ROY  DRISCOLL  that 
he  has  retired  from  the  U.S.  Steel  Corp., 
following  37  years  of  service.  .  .  Recently 
named  manager  of  the  Metropolitan  District 
Commission  is  GILBERT  U.  GUSTAFSON 
of  West  Hartford,  Conn.  A  past  president  of 
the  Connecticut  Society  of  Civil  Engineers, 
he  received  the  organization's  H.  Jackson 
Tippet  Award  in  1969  for  extraordinary 
service  to  the  engineering  profession.  He  is  a 
fellow  of  the  American  Society  of  Civil 
Engineers  and  author  of  numerous  papers 
presented  before  engineering  groups  and 
service  clubs.  .  .  In  September  ARTHUR  E. 
SMITH  was  named  executive  committee 
chairman  of  United  Aircraft  Corp. 


22 


THE  WPI  JOURNA1 


1936 

The  vice  president  and  general  manager 
of  Armour-Porter  Co.,  Inc.,  JOHN  A. 
PORTER,  now  makes  his  home  in  Shrews- 
bury, Mass.  ..  GEORGE  P.  WOOD  writes 
that  he  is  staff  manufacturing  engineer  for 
Homelite  Division-Textron,  Inc.,  Gastonia, 
N.C. 

1937 

It  was  recently  announced  that 
FRANCIS  S.  HARVEY  was  one  of  seven 
persons  appointed  to  membership  on  the 
new  advisory  committee  for  the  Newman 
Division  of  the  Department  of  Education  of 
the  Roman  Catholic  Diocese  of  Worcester. 
The  committee  will  assist  in  developing 
channels  of  communication  and  cooperation 
in  educational  matters  between  the  colleges 
and  universities  in  Worcester  County  and 
the  diocese.  .  .  TALBOT  F.  WENTWORTH 
is  senior  vice  president  of  the  Federal 
Compress  &  Warehouse  Co.,  in  Memphis, 
Tenn. 

1938 

The  newly  elected  chairman  of  the  WPI 
Alumni  Fund  is  RICHARD  F.  BURKE,  JR., 
of  Worcester.  He  will  direct  the  solicitation 
of  alumni  contributions  to  the  college  dur- 
ing the  academic  year. 

1939 

RICHARD  B.  WILSON  reports  that  he 
is  principal  at  the  Bill  Reaser  Co.  in  New- 
port Beach,  Calif. 

1940 

The  University  of  Connecticut  at  Storrs 
employs  DR.  RONALD  S.  BRAND  as  a 
professor  of  mechanical  engineering  and 
head  of  the  department.  He  resides  in 
Eastford.  .  .  MARCUS  A.  RHODES,  JR., 
won  his  sixth  term  on  the  Taunton,  Mass., 
School  Committee  in  the  November  elec- 
tion. He  is  assistant  manager  and  treasurer 
of  M.  M.  Rhodes  &  Sons,  Inc.,  serves  as  a 
director  of  the  United  Fund,  and  as  vice 
president  of  the  Old  Colony  Historical 
Society.  Mr.  Rhodes  is  also  completing  his 
second  two-year  term  on  the  Bristol-Plym- 
outh Regional  Vocational  Technical  School 
Committee. 

1941 

After  years  of  service  as  chief  engineer 
with  the  American  Forces  Network-Berlin, 
MARVIN  HANDLEMAN  has  retired  and  is 
living  in  Berlin,  Germany.  .  .  The  Port 
Authority  of  Allegheny  County,  Pittsburgh, 
Pa.,  employs  LESLIE  B.  HARDING  as 
assistant  project  engineer.  Leslie  currently 
resides  in  Mt.  Lebanon,  Pa.  .  .  JOSEPH  W. 
WHITAKER,  JR.,  regional  product  manager 
for  the  Heald  Division,  Cincinnati  Milacron 
Co.,  has  moved  to  Troy,  Mich. 


1942 

In  residence  at  Long  Beach,  Calif.,  is 
PAUL  C.  YANKAUSKAS,  who  is  now 
self-employed  as  a  consultant. 


1943 

We  have  learned  from  COLIN  H.  HAND- 
FORTH  that  he  is  now  Director  of  Practice 
Development  for  Stevens,  Thompson  & 
Runyon,  Portland,  Oregon.  .  .  VICTOR  E. 
KOHMAIM  has  been  named  a  member  of  the 
programming  staff  at  American  Telephone 
and  Telegraph,  New  York  City.  His  home  is 
in  Verona,  N.J.  .  .  Torngren  Co.,  Billerica, 
Mass.,  employs  RAYMOND  H.  MAT- 
THEWS, manager  of  engineers.  He  lives  in 
Beverly. 

1944 

CHESTER  W.  AMBLER,  JR.,  who  re- 
sides in  Doylestown,  Pa.,  is  serving  as 
Director  of  Sales  Engineering  with  the  Penn- 
sylvania-Pacific Corp.  .  .  LEE  G.  CORDIER, 
JR.,  has  three  students  in  his  family.  His 
daughter,  Barbara,  is  a  junior  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  California;  son,  Lee,  a  freshman  at 
Arizona  State  University;  and  daughter, 
Carol,  a  junior  high  student  in  Sacramento, 
Calif.  Lee  is  Manager  of  Engineering  for 
Campbell  Soup's  West  Coast  plants. 


1945 

Dorr-Oliver,  Inc.,  of  Stamford,  Conn., 
has  a  new  vice  president  of  marketing  in 
HAROLD  FLEIT  who  recently  moved  from 
Wisconsin  to  Fairfield,  Conn...  PAUL  N. 
KOKULIS  is  a  partner  in  the  law  firm  of 
Cushman,  Darby  &  Cushman,  which  now 
has  its  offices  at  1801  K  Street,  N.  W., 
Washington,  D.C.  .  .  The  senior  development 
specialist  for  E.  I.  du  Pont,  Heat  Transfer 
Products,  Newport,  Del.  is  HARRY  W. 
SANDBERG.  .  .  It  has  been  reported  that 
ALBERT  P.  TALBOYS  is  again  in  the 
United  States  after  having  spent  some  time 
in  Peru.  He  is  with  the  Office  of  Inter- 
national Health,  OS,  DHEW,  Washington, 
D.C. 

1946 
DR.  JOHN  LOTT  BROWN,  professor  of 
psychology  and  visual  science  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Rochester,  has  been  appointed  Direc- 
tor of  the  Center  for  Visual  Science.  The 
new  director  is  a  leading  authority  on 
problems  in  visual  perception  during  space 
flights  and  on  color  vision  and  is  the  author 
of  over  70  papers  on  physical,  physiological, 
and  psychological  aspects  of  color  and  light. 
The  Center  which  he  now  heads  is  one  of 
the  few  in  the  world  dedicated  primarily  to 
basic  research  and  graduate  and  post-gradu- 
ate training  in  the  visual  sciences.  .  .  Vice 
president  of  AATO  Inc.,  Manchester,  N.H., 
is  DONALD  A.  FERGUSON,  who  makes  his 


home  in  Bedford,  N.H.  .  .  DR.  ROBERT  B. 
HAYWARD  is  a  registered  representative  for 
DeHaven  &  Townsend,  Crouter  &  Bodine, 
Philadelphia,  Pa.  He  resides  in  Ardmore, 
Pa.  ..  HAROLD  L.  SCHIMMACK  has 
moved  to  Alexandria,  Va.  He  is  director  of 
the  Regional  Operations  Division  at  the 
Health,  Education  and  Welfare  Office  in 
Washington,  D.C. 


1947 

VINCENT  A.  ZIKE  has  a  position  as 
product  line  engineer  with  The  Stanley 
Works,  strapping  systems  division.  New 
Britain,  Conn.  Plainville  is  his  home. 

1948 
ALFRED  D.  RIGGS,  JR.,  accounts  rep- 
resentative for  Wyman  Gordon  Co.,  has 
moved  to  Auburn,  Mass.  .  .  STURGIS  A. 
SOBIN  won  his  first  full  term  as  Mayor  of 
Ansonia,  Conn.,  in  November.  Prior  to  his 
election  the  candidate  said,  "I  know  that 
much  has  been  accomplished  under  this 
Republican  administration,  much  is  in  prog- 
ress and  there  is  still  more  to  do  in  the 
coming  two  years."  Sobin  was  a  member  of 
the  Board  of  Selectmen  before  he  was 
elected  to  the  Board  of  Aldermen  in  1969. 
He  served  as  chairman  of  the  aldermanic 
education  committee.  He  is  a  self-employed 
antiques  dealer  and  restorer,  is  married  and 
has  five  children.  .  .  DR.  ALBERT  H. 
SOLOWAY,  professor  of  medicinal  chem- 
istry at  Northeastern  University,  has  been 
awarded  three  separate  research  grants  total- 
ing $91,948.  "Boron  Protein  for  Chemo- 
Radiotherapy  of  Tumors"  is  his  most  recent 
grant.  It  was  awarded  by  the  Department  of 
Health,  Education,  and  Welfare,  National 
Cancer  Institute.  Dr.  Soloway  said  that  he 
and  his  colleagues  "are  trying  to  make 
certain  boron  compounds  that  will  localize 
in  brain  tumor  cells  without  destroying 
normal  brain  tissue."  The  second  grant,  also 
from  HEW,  is  entitled  "Chemical  Inhibitors 
of  Plaque  and  Calculus".  The  major  objec- 
tive of  this  research  is  to  find  chemicals  that 
could  be  attached  to  the  tooth  surface  and 
would  prevent  accumulation  of  plaque  and 
tartar.  The  third  research  project,  now  in  its 
fourth  year,  is  "Metabolic  Implications  in 
Hyperbaric  Systems",  the  object  of  which  is 
to  determine  how  oxygen  is  metabolized 
normally.  .  .  ELIOT  Z.  BLOCK  serves  as  a 
technical  systems  engineer  for  Computer 
Sciences  Canada,  Ltd.,  Montreal,  Que. 

1949 

Now  located  in  San  Francisco,  Cal., 
WILLSON  C.  APPLEGATE  is  manager  of 
Ground  Safety  for  United  Air  Lines.  .  .  Adar 
Associates,  Inc.,  of  Cambridge,  Mass.,  has 
named  FRANCIS  J.  BIGDA  as  marketing 
manager.  Lynnfield  is  his  home.  .  . 
LEONARD   W.    FISH  was  made  vice  presi- 


23 


dent  at  the  American  Gas  Association,  Inc., 
in  August.  He  also  retains  his  title  of 
Director,  Planning.  .  .  Holden  resident 
ROBERT  N.  GOWING  was  recently  ap- 
pointed director  of  commercial  sales  for  the 
New  England  Electric  System,  Westboro, 
Mass.  Prior  to  his  promotion  he  was  division 
sales  manager  in  Worcester,  a  post  he  held 
since  1968.  ..  Employed  as  a  supervisory 
aerospace  engineer  by  the  Electronic  Sys- 
tems Division  of  the  U.S.  Air  Force,  Han- 
scom  Field,  Bedford,  Mass.,  WILLIAM  A. 
JACQUES  makes  his  home  in  Newcastle, 
Maine.  ..  ELZEAR  J.  LEMIEUX  is  cur- 
rently manager  of  the  vessel  analytical  divi- 
sion of  M.  W.  Kellogg  Co.,  Houston,  Tex.  .  . 
DONALD  R.  SANDERS  is  associated  with 
Scientific  Components,  Inc.,  of  Linden, 
N.J.  ..  Vice  president  of  Rotron,  Inc., 
Woodstock,  N.Y.,  is  WILLIAM  G.  SLOANE. 

1950 

Serving  as  vice  president  of  marketing 
for  Southern  States,  Inc.  (Division  of  Gul- 
ton  Industries,  Inc.),  is  ROBERT  I.  CARL- 
SON of  Decatur,  Ga.  ..  GEORGE  -E. 
ENGMAN  is  director  of  engineering  for 
Dynarad,  Inc.,  Norwood,  Mass.  .  .  Vice  pres- 
ident of  Litton  Industries,  Inc.,  ROBERT  F. 
STEWART,  has  moved  to  Simsbury,  Ct. 

1951 

MIT  employs  BRUCE  M.  BAILEY  as 
chief  mechanical  engineer  in  the  Lab.  for 
Nuclear  Science,  Cambridge,  Mass.  .  .  H. 
STUART  DODGE  is  currently  manager- 
product  assurance  division.  Analog  Tech- 
nology Corp.,  Pasadena,  Calif.  His  residence 
is  in  La  Canada.  .  .  Project  engineer  for  H. 
H.  Scott,  Inc.,  Maynard,  Mass.,  is  AXELW. 
LINDER,  JR. 

1952 

Norton  Co.,  Worcester,  recently  an- 
nounced that  STANLEY  I.  BERMAN  has 
been  elected  to  the  new  position  of  vice 
president,  manufacturing,  abrasive  opera- 
tions. The  new  vice  president  will  also 
remain  vice  president,  manufacturing,  for 
Norton  International  Inc.,  a  company  sub- 
sidiary. His  latest  responsibility  will  be  to 
coordinate  engineering  and  manufacturing 
at  more  than  30  Norton  abrasive  facilities  in 
the  U.S.  and  in  16  foreign  countries.  .  . 
JOHN  EDWARD  FELDSINE,  JR.,  is  an 
assistant  professor  of  chemistry  at  Broome 
Community  College,  Binghamton, 

N.Y.  .  .  FRANK  L.  FLOOD  has  been  named 
chief  estimator  for  Dravo  Corporation's 
Eastern  Construction  Division.  The  Division 
which  he  now  helps  head  engages  in  a 
variety  of  heavy  construction  and  excava- 
tion projects  including  dams,  bridges,  dock 
and  port  facilities,  and  shafts  and  tunnels 
throughout  the  eastern  portion  of  North 
America  and  overseas.  .  .  Production  man- 
ager for  American  Cyanamid,  Linden,  N.J., 


is  STUART  R.  HATHAWAY.  .  .  In  June 
ALLAN  J.  ROWE  received  his  master  of 
science  degree  (EE)  from  Northeastern 
University's  Graduate  School  of  Engineer- 
ing. Allan,  a  nine-year  employee  of  Ray- 
theon Co.,  Bedford,  where  he  is  principal 
engineer,  lives  in  Burlington  with  his  wife, 
Anna,  and  their  SIX  children.  .  .  CHARLES 
W.  THROWER  is  sales  engineer  for  Inger- 
soll-Rand  Co.,  Wellesley,  Mass.  .  .  Martin 
Marietta  Corp.,  San  Francisco,  Cal.,  employs 
ROBERT  A.  MEYER,  operations  chief  for 
sprint  flight  test. 

1953 

Purer  New  England  waterways  may  yet 
become  a  reality  if  plans  set  in  motion  by 
VYTO  L.  ANDRELIUNAS  prove  successful. 
As  assistant  chief  of  operations  for  the  New 
England  Division  U.S.  Army  Corps  of  Engi- 
neers, he  has  been  charged  with  issuing 
permits  for  the  discharge  of  industrial  waste 
into  rivers.  The  Corps  has  estimated  that 
there  are  approximately  4,000  industries  in 
the  six-state  region  with  about  2,300  being 
expected  to  file  for  permits  under  the  Rivers 
and  Harbors  Act  of  1899.  .  .  Eckel  In- 
dustries, Inc.,  of  Cambridge,  has  announced 
the  promotion  of  JOHN  W.  FLOOD  to  the 
position  of  Manager,  Eckoustic  Division. 
The  new  division,  manager  will  be  respon- 
sible for  coordinating  the  research,  engineer- 
ing and  development,  and  sales  of  the 
company's  line  of  noise  control  products 
and  systems,  and  acoustic  research  and 
testing  enclosures.  .  .  KENDALL  F.  FORS- 
BERG,  systems  engineer  for  the  Connecti- 
cut Bank  &  Trust  Co.,  has  the  following 
business  address  -  1  Constitution  Plaza, 
Hartford,  Ct.  .  .  Residing  in  Sacramento, 
Calif.,  is  BUD  E.  FRANDEN,  who  is  a 
member  of  the  technical  staff  of  TRW 
Systems.  ..  JOHN  E.  FLYNN  reports  that 
he  is  General  Manufacturing  Superintendent 
for  Monsanto  Co.,  Kenilworth,  N.J.  .  .  The 
past  president  of  the  Worcester  Chapter  of 
the  WPI  Alumni  Association,  FRANCIS  W. 
MADIGAN,  JR.,  has  been  elected  president 
of  the  Associated  General  Contractors  of 
Massachusetts.  He  also  serves  as  president  of 
the  Worcester  General  Building  Contractors 
Association. 

1954 
CARL  A.  HAMMAR  is  Field  Engineer 
for  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft,  East  Hartford, 
Ct.,  and  lives  in  Yardley,  Pa.  .  .  One  of  the 
executives  graduated  from  the  Motorola 
Executive  Institute,  Oracle,  Arizona,  was 
THEODORE  J.  JAROS,  who  is  manager  of 
international  operations  support  with 
Motorola  in  Phoenix.  The  purpose  of  the 
one-month  development  course  is  to  provide 
the  top  quality  managers  needed  to  assure 
long  term  growth  for  the  widely  diversified 
electronics  firm.  .  .  Raytheon  Co.,  Missile 
Systems    Division,    of    Bedford,   Mass.,  em- 


ploys GARY  A.  KUNKEL  as  staff  engi- 
neer. .  .  WESLEY  D.  WHEELER  is  a  naval 
architect  and  marine  engineer  as  well  as 
coordinator  of  technical  studies  employed 
by  Plaza  De  La  Victoria  of  Cadiz,  Spain.  .  . 
WILLIAM  H.  HILLS  of  Satellite  Beach, 
Fla.,  is  the  president  of  Hills  Research  & 
Development,  Inc.,  of  Melbourne. 


1955 

The  president  of  Donald  Grenier  Associ- 
ates, Inc.,  New  York  City,  is  DONALD  J. 
GRENIER  who  resides  in  Carmel.  .  . 
RICHARD  L.  GOLDMAN  is  an  engineering 
specialist  with  Philco-Ford  Corp.,  Sierra 
Electronics  Operation,  Menlo  Park,  Calif.  .  . 
Professor  ROBERT  W.  HOLDEN,  who 
teaches  at  Grossmont  College,  El  Cajon, 
Calif.,  makes  his  home  in  San  Diego.  .  . 
JOHN  K.  HANKS  works  as  program  man- 
ager for  Dynamics  Research  Corp.,  Wilming- 
ton, Mass.,  and  makes  his  home  in  Hudson, 
N.H.  .  .  Massachusetts  Electric  Company  has 
appointed  FRANCIS  J.  HORAN,  JR., 
division  sales  manager-commercial  at  its 
Worcester  operations  center.  The  new  sales 
manager  lives  in  Shrewsbury,  Mass.  .  .  Not 
only  is  ARTHUR  W.  RUDMAN  a  mathe- 
matics teacher  in  the  Rockland,  Maine, 
District  High  School,  he  also  serves  as  head 
football  and  track  coach. 

Born:  To  PROF,  and  MRS.  ROBERT  J. 
SCHULTZ,  a  son,  John  Joseph,  on  October 
30,  1971.  Dr.  Schultz  is  a  professor  in  the  C. 
E.  Department  at  Oregon  State  University, 
Corvallis,  Oregon. 

1956 

Now  living  in  Houston,  Texas,  JOHN  F. 
BURNS  is  national  accounts  manager  for 
Shell  Chemical  Co.  .  .  ARNOLD  M.  HALL, 
vice  president,  engineering  for  Transporta- 
tion Technology,  Inc.,  Pawcatuck,  Ct.,  has 
moved  from  Irving,  Texas,  to  Bristol, 
R.I.  .  .  Employed  as  sales  manager  for 
Homewood  High  &  Dry  Marina,  Home- 
wood,  Calif.,  JOHN  L.  HYDE  now  lives  in 
Tahoe  City.  .  .  The  manager  of  the  Memory 
Systems  Dept.  for  INTEL  Corp.,  Mountain 
View,  Calif.,  is  WILLIAM  F.  JORDAN, 
JR.  .  .  It  was  recently  announced  that  WIL- 
LIAM P.  PETERSON  has  been  elected 
president  of  Case  and  Company,  Inc., 
Chicago,  Illinois.  Prior  to  becoming  presi- 
dent of  the  management  consulting  firm  he 
saw  twelve  years  of  experience  in  manage- 
ment information  systems,  financial  plan- 
ning, and  control  systems,  organizational 
analysis,  and  research  and  engineering  man- 
agement systems.  .  .  DR.  JOHN  A. 
TAYLOR,  assistant  professor  of  physics, 
Otterbein  College,  Westerville,  Ohio,  is 
spending  a  sabbatical  quarter  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Washington.  While  on  sabbatical  he  is 
class-testing  parts  three  and  four  of  his 
physics  problems  book  which  will  be  pub- 
lished by  Addison-Wesley. 


24 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


1957 

CROSBY  L.  ADAMS  has  the  position  of 
traffic  engineer  with  Wilbur  Smith  &  Associ- 
ates, Columbia,  S.C.  .  .  RICHARD  G. 
BEDARD  is  now  director  of  instructional 
media  for  the  City  of  Worcester  Public 
School  System.  .  .  The  director  of  marketing 
for  Bergman  Mfg.  Co.,  JOHN  W.  BRALEY, 
has  moved  from  San  Rafael,  Calif.,  to 
Richardson,  Texas.  His  company  head- 
quarters are  currently  located  ir  Garland.  .  . 
JOHN  M.  HOBAN  is  with  Honeywell,  Inc., 
Bala  Cynwyd,  Pa.  .  .  It  has  been  reported 
that  ALEX  C.  PAPAIOANNOU  has  been 
appointed  marketing  manager.  Food  In- 
dustry, for  Masoneilan  International,  Inc., 
Norwood,  Mass.  The  new  manager  will  be 
responsible  for  the  company's  marketing 
efforts  to  the  food  processing  industries.  He 
is  an  active  member  of  the  Food  Industries 
Division,  Instrument  Society  of  America, 
and  is  currently  serving  as  Program  Chair- 
man for  the  Division's  national  meeting  in 
Chicago.  ..  COLLINS  M.  POMEROY  is  a 
systems  planning  engineer  for  New  England 
Telephone  in  Boston. 

Married:  MICHAEL  SPIEGEL  to  Miss 
Sara  Valborg  Swanberg  of  Sandy  Hook, 
Conn.,  on  August  8,  1971.  Michael  is 
self-employed  and  raises  quarter  horses  and 
Appaloosas  which  he  breeds,  trains  and 
shows. 


1958 

Microsystems  International  Ltd.  of  Ot- 
tawa, Canada,  employs  JOSEPH  L. 
CHENAIL  as  product  manager.  ..  DAVID 
S.  CRIMMINS,  Sc.D.,  has  joined  the  Smith 
Kline  Surgical  Specialties  Department  of 
Smith  Kline  &  French  Laboratories  as  man- 
ager of  manufacturing  and  product  develop- 
ment. Prior  to  accepting  his  present  position 
he  was  manager  of  advanced  manufacturing 
engineering  for  Colt  Industries  and  research 
manager  for  the  Emhart  Corporation.  He 
also  served  as  a  faculty  member  at  the 
University  of  Denver  and  Northwestern 
University  Dental  School.  Among  the 
societies  to  which  he  belongs  are  the  Ameri- 
can Society  for  Metals,  American  Chemical 
Society,  American  Institute  for  Metal- 
lurgical Engineers  and  American  Society  for 
Testing  Materials.  .  .  Director  of  Counter- 
measures  and  Electronics  for  Tracor  Inc., 
Austin,  Texas,  is  EDWARD  C.  FRASER, 
PhD.  .  .  LCDR  EDWARD  L.  GALAVOTTI 
is  now  stationed  at  Fort  George  G.  Meade, 
Md.  ..WILLIAM  F.  GESS  has  been  pro- 
moted to  manager,  sonar  signal  processing, 
heavy  military  electronics  systems  at  Gener- 
al Electric  Co.,  Syracuse,  N.Y.  He  resides  in 
Liverpool.  .  .  In  August  JOSEPH  B.  GILL 
was  elected  to  the  position  of  executive  vice 
president  by  the  board  of  directors  at 
C.E.M.  Co.,  Inc.,  Danielson,  Conn.  Pre- 
viously he  served  as  vice  president  of  the 
sales    division    for    Kaydon    Division    Keene 


Corp.,  Mich.,  and  had  held  various  sales  and 
engineering  positions  at  the  Fafnir  Bearing 
Co.,  New  Britain,  Conn.  His  residence  is  in 
East  Greenwich,  R.I.  .  .  JACK  L.  GORR  is 
presently  employed  as  a  senior  systems 
analyst  at  Pratt  &  Whitney,  East  Hartford, 
Conn.  He  received  his  MS  degree  in  business 
management  from  Rensselaer  Polytechnic 
Institute,  Troy,  N.Y".,  in  June  of  1971. 
.  .  .  Sylvania  Electric  Products,  Needham, 
Mass.,  employs  ROBERT  LAPLUME  as  an 
engineering  specialist.  .  .  Serving  as  senior 
field  engineer  for  the  General  Electric  Co., 
Cordova,  III.,  is  ROBERT  H.  MACGILLI- 
VRAY  who  makes  his  home  in  Bettendorf, 
Iowa. 

JOAQUIM  S.  S.  RIBEIRO  has  been 
elected  vice  president  and  treasurer  of 
Jamesbury  Corp.,  Worcester,  Mass.  He  will 
be  responsible  for  all  finance  and  adminis- 
tration functions  of  the  corporation.  In 
Worcester  he  is  president  of  the  Society  for 
the  Advancement  of  Management,  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Board  of  Managers  of  the  Visiting 
Nurse  Association,  and  a  member  of  the 
Young  Businessmen's  Association.  He  also  is 
president  of  the  Princeton,  Mass.,  Tax- 
payers' Association  and  chairman  of  the 
Wachusett  Regional  School  Planning 
Board.  .  .  Ross  Europa,  a  Division  of  the 
Ross  Operating  Valve  Company  of  Detroit, 
Mich.,  has  appointed  WALTER  VEITH  to 
the  position  of  Technical  Director  in  charge 
of  research  and  development,  production, 
engineering,  drafting  and  patent  surveil- 
lance, with  headquarters  in  the  Frankfurt, 
Germany  area. 


1959 

Now  living  in  Moreland  Hills,  Ohio,  is 
BURNHAM  H.  BAKER,  who  is  director  of 
planning  for  the  Addressograph-Multigraph 
Corp.  of  Cleveland.  ..  CHARLES  N. 
CONIARIS,  JR.,  has  the  position  of  civil 
engineer  with  Saelectric  Transmission  Corp., 
New  York  City.  He  lives  in  Jackson  Heights 
...CLIFFORD  H.  DAW,  JR.,  assistant 
bridge  engineer  with  the  State  of  California 
Division  of  Highways  —  Bridge  Department, 
resides  in  Dublin,  Calif. 

Married:  DONALD  R.  FERRARI  to 
Miss  Lorraine  Marie  Marmonti,  of  Waltham, 
Mass.,  on  July  17,  1971.  Donald  is  head 
coach  of  football  and  baseball  at  Athol, 
Mass.,  High  School.  .  .  Assistant  trust  officer 
at  the  Broward  National  Bank,  Fort  Lauder- 
dale, Fla.,  is  MARSHALL  P.  KRUPNICK, 
who  makes  his  home  in  Hollywood.  .  . 
ROBERT  B.  PALMER  is  a  self-employed 
programmer-360  who  works  from  his  resi- 
dence in  Chatham,  Mass.  .  .  Now  residing  in 
Seekonk,  Mass.,  ALEXANDER  L.  PRATT 
serves  as  project  engineer  for  the  Grinnell 
Corp.  of  Providence,  R.I. 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  DOUGLAS  R. 
WILLOUGHBY,  their  third  child  and  first 
daughter,   Janine    Lynn,  on  July   14,  1970. 


Doug  is  a  development  engineer  at  the  IBM 
Systems  Development  Laboratory,  Pough- 
keepsie,  N.Y. 

1960 

PAUL  W.  BAYLISS  of  Omaha,  Nebras- 
ka is  assistant  manager,  industrial  engineer- 
ing for  Western  Electric  Co.  .  .  DAVID  R. 
GEOFFROY,  senior  design  engineer  for 
Coppus  Engineering  Co.,  Worcester,  Mass., 
has  recently  moved  from  Auburn  to  Prince- 
ton. .  .  Teaching  science  and  mathematics  at 
Weymouth,  Mass.,  High  School  is  JOHN  R. 
HAAVISTO.  ..  Residing  in  Williamsville, 
N.Y.,  CARL  H.  KARLSSON  serves  as 
process  project  engineer  at  the  Union  Car- 
bide Corp.,  Tonawanda.  .  .  SANG  Kl  LEE  is 
with  the  Patent  Dept.,  Xerox  Corp.,  Roches- 
ter, N.Y.  .  .  On  sabbatical  until  September 
1972,  EDWARD  E.  LINDBERG,  director  of 
the  computer  center  at  Western  New 
England  College,  will  be  completing  his 
requirements  for  a  PhD  degree  in  applied 
mechanics  at  the  University  of  Connecticut. 
He  is  a  member  of  the  American  Society  of 
Mechanical  Engineers,  the  American  Society 
for  Engineering  Education,  and  the  Analog/ 
Hybrid  Computer  Educational  Users  Group. 
His  residence  is  in  Springfield,  Mass.,  home 
of  Western  New  England  College. 

WALTER  S.  LUND,  owner  of  Lutronix, 
a  consulting  organization  specializing  in 
electronics,  is  also  senior  engineer  and  super- 
visor of  engineering  research  in  support  of 
high-energy  physics  at  Yale  University,  New 
Haven,  Conn.  .  .  Now  located  in  Cockeys- 
ville,  Md.,  ANDREW  R.  MILLS  serves  in  a 
marketing  capacity  for  AA1  Corp.,  of  Balti- 
more. ..CHRIS  F.  NILSEN  is  associate 
professor  of  mechanical  engineering  at 
Rochester  Institute  of  Technology,  Roches- 
ter, N.Y.  He  lives  in  E.  Lansing,  Mich.,  and 
is  on  leave  from  RIT  for  two  years,  during 
which  time  he  will  work  toward  his 
PhD.  ..  WILLIAM  R.  NIMEE  of  Framing- 
ham,  Mass.,  was  recently  promoted  to  the 
rank  of  Commander,  USNR.  He  received  the 
commission  via  the  NROTC  program  at 
Holy  Cross  College,  Worcester,  Mass.  Bill  is 
regional  sales  manager  for  Cambridge 
Memories,  Inc.,  of  Newtonville.  .  .  DR. 
ROBERT  K.  ROSENBERG  is  a  self-em- 
ployed dentist  practicing  in  McLean,  Va.  .  . 
Employed  by  the  U.S.  Army  as  a  test 
engineer,  THOMAS  R.  SOKOLOWSKI 
serves  at  Ft.  Belvoir,  Va.  .  .  JOHN  E. 
VANDERSEA  is  development  engineer  for 
IBM  Corp.,  East  Fishkill  Facility,  Hopewell 
Jet.,  N.Y.  He  lives  in  Poughkeepsie.  .  .  Work- 
ing as  a  product  support  specialist  for 
Information  Instruments,  Inc.,  Ann  Arbor, 
Mich.,  is  PETER  S.  ZILKO  who  also  makes 
his  home  in  Ann  Arbor. 

1961 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  ALLAN  P. 
SHERMAN,   a   second  son,  David  M.  Sher- 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


25 


man,  on  October  6,  1970.  Allan  is  still  with 
Hewlett-Packard  Co.,  Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  The 
1970  recipient  of  the  Jesse  H.  Neal  Editorial 
Achievement  Award  was  RICHARD  T. 
DAVIS,  Associate  Editor  of  Microwaves 
Magazine.  He  was  presented  the  award, 
given  annually  by  the  American  Business 
Press,  in  recognition  of  his  report:  ECM: 
Electronic  Counter/measures.  .  .  LARRY 

ISRAEL  and  his  associates  have  formed  a 
new  company,  Visualtek,  which  is  con- 
cerned with  the  manufacture  and  selling  of 
closed-circuit  TV  systems  designed  to  be 
placed  on  a  table  to  help  the  visually 
handicapped  to  read  and  write.  Larry  is 
president  of  the  firm  which  is  located  in 
Santa  Monica,  California.  .  .  Employed  by 
the  American  Tel.  &  Tel.  Co.,  New  York 
City,  as  assistant  engineering  manager  is 
JOSEPH  J.  JANIK,  a  resident  of  Morris- 
town,  N.J.  ..ALLEN  L.  JOHNSON  holds 
the  position  of  project  engineer  with  the 
National  Cash  Register  Co.,  Ithaca, 
N.Y.  .  .  Sales  engineer  for  the  General  Elec- 
tric Co.,  Bloomfield,  N.J.,  is  GERALD  E. 
KUKLEWICZ.  His  home  is  in  Point  Pleas- 
ant. .  .  The  Conographic  Corp.,  Woburn, 
Mass.,  employs  FRANK  MARRA  as  sales 
manager.  Frank  lives  in  Stoneham.  .  . 
THOMAS  E.  POSTMA  is  with  Delco  Elec- 
tronics, Division  of  General  Motors  Corp., 
Milwaukee,  Wise.  He,  his  wife,  and  their 
year-and-a-half  old  son,  Michael  Thomas, 
make  Oak  Creek  their  home.  .  .  DAVID  W. 
PROSSER  writes  that  he  is  senior  engineer 
for  the  New  York  State  Department  of 
Environmental  Conservation,  Syracuse, 
N.Y.  .  .  PAUL  S.  SLEDZIK  has  been  named 
manufacturing  manager  in  the  voltage  regu- 
lator business  section  of  General  Electric's 
commercial  distribution  transformer  depart- 
ment in  Pittsfield,  Mass.  Prior  to  his  ap- 
pointment he  was  manager  of  shop  opera- 
tions in  GE's  speed  variator  department  in 
Erie,  Pa.  .  .  Triangle  Conduit  &  Cable  Co.  of 
New  Brunswick,  N.J.  employs  KENNETH  J. 
VIRKUS,  chief  chemist.  ..  ROBERT  R. 
HALE  has  been  made  engineering  manager 
of  the  Hanovia  Lamp  Division  of  Compact 
Arc,  Princeton  Jet.,  New  Jersey. 


1962 

LAURENT  A.  BEAUREGARD  resides 
in  Santa  Monica,  California,  and  is  an 
assistant  professor  in  the  philosophy  depart- 
ment at  the  University  of  California  in  Los 
Angeles.  .  .  Serving  as  a  pediatrician  at  Fort 
Benmng,  Ga.,  is  DR.  CHARLES  F.  8E- 
LANGER,  JR.,  who  lives  in  Columbus.  .  . 
DR.  KEYREN  H.  COTTER,  JR.,  has  the 
position  of  chairman  of  the  board  and 
president  of  Western  Financial  Center,  Ltd., 
Long  Beach,  California.  Granada  Hills  is  his 
home.  .  .  The  regional  sales  manager  of 
Torin  Corp.,  Torrington,  Conn.,  is  JERALD 
NORTON  HAMERNICK.  ..  RALPH  G. 
JOHANSON  is  protect  manager  and  sanitary 


engineer  for  G.  Reynold  Watkins  (Consult- 
ing Engineers),  Lexington,  Ky.  .  . 
RICHARD  P.  LAJEUNESSE,  who  is  em- 
ployed by  General  Radio  Co.,  Chicago,  III., 
serves  as  a  regional  product  specialist.  .  . 
KENNETH  J.  LaLIBERTE  has  moved  from 
Pittsford,  N.Y.,  to  Medina,  Ohio.  ..  Since 
receiving  his  MSCE  at  Stanford  in  June 
1971,  LCDR  BRIAN  J.  O'CONNELL  has 
been  assigned  to  the  Seabees  at  Port 
Hueneme,  California.  .  .  Recently  trans- 
ferred to  Hartford,  Conn.,  was  THOMAS  S. 
STARON,  JR.,  who  is  chemical  engineering 
supervisor  for  the  Factory  Insurance  Associ- 
ation. His  residence  is  in  Glastonbury.  .  . 
CAPT.  JOHN  R.  TUFANO,  who  received 
his  MA  degree  in  government  and  interna- 
tional relations  from  the  University  of  Notre 
Dame  in  May  of  1971,  has  currently  been 
assigned  to  the  faculty  of  that  university's 
ROTC  detachment.  ..  The  Long  Island 
Lighting  Co.,  Hicksville,  N.Y.,  employs  WIL- 
LIAM J.  TUNNEY  in  the  capacity  of 
nuclear  physicist.  Bellport  is  home.  .  . 
ROBERT  H.  YORK  of  Concord,  California, 
is  a  soil  engineer  with  Gribaldo  Jones  & 
Assoc.  ..  JOSEPH  W.  FITZPATRICK,  JR., 
who  resides  in  Wilton,  Conn.,  is  the  vice 
president  and  treasurer  of  Wiltek  Corp., 
which  is  also  located  in  Wilton. 


1963 

Married:  RICHARD  M.  ROBBINS  to 
Miss  Mary  Virginia  Salce  of  Shelton,  Conn., 
on  May  23,  1971. 

CAPTAIN  RICHARD  B.  ALLEN  ac- 
cepted the  command  of  Headquarters  Com- 
pany, U.S.  Army  Garrison,  Ft.  Detrick,  Md., 
on  May  26,  1971.  Prior  to  coming  to  Ft. 
Detrick  he  was  assigned  to  Headquarters, 
6th  U.S.  Army  at  the  Presidio  of  San 
Francisco,  California.  .  .  Now  residing  in 
Liverpool,  N.Y.,  ROBERT  K.  ASANOMA  is 
employed  as  assistant  civil  engineer  at  the 
New  York  State  Department  of  Transporta- 
tion in  Syracuse.  .  .  STUART  D.  BAT- 
STONE,  director  of  admissions  at  Barring- 
ton  College,  Barrington,  R.I.,  recently  re- 
ceived the  Master  of  Divinity  degree  from 
Trinity  Evangelical  Divinity  School,  Deer- 
field,  Illinois.  Besides  his  college  responsi- 
bilities, he  is  active  in  community  activities 
and  has  served  on  the  Board  of  the  New 
England  Young  People's  Conference,  was  a 
founding  member  and  general  chairman  of 
the  Midwest  Young  Adult  Conference  and 
the  Northside  Chicago  Young  People's 
Council.  At  one  time  he  was  also  youth 
director  of  the  Arlington  Countryside 
Chapel,  Arlington  Heights,  Illinois.  .  . 
Officials  of  Crescent  Insulated  Wire  &  Cable 
Co.,  Inc.,  have  announced  the  appointment 
of  MARCEL  H.  CLAVIEN  to  the  position 
of  Manager  of  Marketing  for  the  company's 
rubber  and  plastic  product  lines.  The  new 
manager's  duties  will  include  the  administra- 
tion of  sales  representatives,  as  well  as  new 


product  planning  and  market  development 
for  expanded  activity  in  his  department.  For 
the  past  two  years  Clavien  was  sales  manager 
for  Taft  Electrosystems,  Inc.  ..  STEPHEN 
D.  DONAHUE,  JR.,  is  acting  Council  repre- 
sentative of  the  Cincinnati,  Ohio,  chapter  of 
the  WPI  Alumni  Association.  ..  Project 
manager  for  The  Badger  Co.,  Inc.,  Cam- 
bridge, Mass.,  is  ROGER  D.  FLOOD  of 
Medfield.  LEE  JAY  GLOBERSON,  who 
resides  in  South  Natick,  Mass.,  is  Switching 
Systems  Supervisor  for  the  New  England 
Telephone  Co.,  Waltham.  .  .  Wang  Labora- 
tories, New  York  City,  has  employed  JOHN 
B.  LOJKO  as  a  salesman.  John  lives  in  Rego 
Park,  New  York.  .  .  JOSEPH  R.  MANCUSO 
is  assistant  professor  of  management  engi- 
neering at  WPI.  He  also  serves  as  president 
of  Applied  Marketing,  Framingham, 
Mass.  .  .  DAVID  G.  NEVERS  is  a  Captain  in 
the  U.S.  Army  Corps  of  Engineers  and  is 
stationed  in  Metairie,  La.  .  .  The  U.S.  Army 
Nuclear  Effects  Lab.,  Edgewood  Arsenal, 
Md.,  employs  ANDRUS  NILLER  as  a  re- 
search physicist.  His  home  is  in  Bel  Air.  .  . 
EDWARD  J.  POLEWARCZYK  is  now  engi- 
neering services  manager  for  Dynamic  Con- 
trols Corp.,  Windsor,  Conn.  ..  DENNIS  E. 
SNAY,  local  sales  manager-commercial,  at 
the  Massachusetts  Electric  Co.,  Marlboro, 
resides  in  South  Berlin.  .  .  The  city  engineer 
of  Peabody,  Mass.,  ALAN  F.  TAUBERT, 
recently  won  the  praise  of  Peabody's  mayor 
for  the  preliminary  work  performed  by  his 
staff  which  resulted  in  a  great  saving  of 
money  to  the  city  on  the  $6.9  million 
sewerage  project  that  soon  will  be  started 
with  federal  funds.  Before  coming  to  Pea- 
body,  Taubert  was  senior  sanitary  engineer 
for  the  Division  of  Water  Pollution  Control 
in  the  Rhode  Island  Health  Department; 
engineer  for  the  Water  Resource  Planning 
Conservation  Department  for  the  State  of 
New  York  and  engineer  for  the  California 
Department  of  Water  Resources. 

ROBERT  J.  CRAIG,  operations  research 
analyst  for  Operations  Research,  Inc.,  Silver 
Spring,  Md.,  resides  in  Rockville.  .  .  Now  a 
patent  attorney  with  Brumbaugh,  Graves, 
Donohue  &  Raymond,  New  York  City, 
LESLIE  J.  HART  received  his  law  degree 
from  Suffolk  University  Law  School  last 
June  in  Boston.  .  .  JOSEPH  V.  BUC- 
CIAGLIA  was  on  assignment  in  Europe  last 
summer  for  the  U.S.  Rubber  Company  of 
Naugatuck,  Conn.  (UniRoyal,  Inc.). 


1964 
Married:  CARLETON  F.  KILMER,  JR., 
to  Miss  Faith  Alison  Crampton  of  Natick, 
Mass..  on  May  22,  1971.  Carleton  is  a 
management  consultant  for  Arthur  Ander- 
son Co.  of  Boston.  .  .  JOHN  T.  O'KEEFE  to 
Miss  Margaret  Jane  Lynch  of  East  Wey- 
mouth, Mass.,  on  June  13.  1971.  John  is  a 
manager-accounting  for  the  General  Electric 
Co.,  in  West  Lynn. 


26 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Born:  to  Captain  and  Mrs.  FREDERICK 
H.  SIFF,  a  daughter,  on  July  14,  1971. 
Capt.  Siff  is  now  an  assistant  professor  of 
computer  analysis  at  the  U.S.  Military  Acad- 
emy, West  Point,  N.Y. 

DR.  PAUL  G.  AMAZEEN,  who  received 
his    doctorate    in    philosophy   of   electrical 
engineering    at    WPI     in    June,    is    now   an 
associate  of  Vita  Co.,  a  company  which  has 
developed  a  prototype  of  a  heart-monitoring 
machine    currently    in    use    al    Peter    Bent 
Brigham    Hospital,    Boston.    Previously    Dr. 
Amazeen  was  an  instructor  at  WPI.  .  .  Serv- 
ing in  Saigon  as  a  market  analyst  for  Pacific 
Architects   &  Engineers,   Inc.,  of  San   Fran- 
cisco, Calif.,  is  PETER  BAKER.  .  .  JOHN  D. 
CAMERA   is  a  general  contractor  with  the 
Camera    Construction    Co.,    West   Hartford, 
Conn.  .  .  RICHARD  C.  CARLE  writes  that 
he  is  computer  analyst  for  the  Space  Divi- 
sion of  General  Electric  Co.,  Riverdale,  Md., 
and  is  working  on  his  Master  of  Engineering 
degee  at  Penn.  State.  .  .  One  of  the  principal 
speakers  at  the  10th  annual  Abrasives  Con- 
ference    held     in      Boston      in     June     was 
RICHARD    C.    DELONG,    senior    product 
engineer,   AVCO   Bay  State  Abrasives  Divi- 
sion, Westboro,   Mass.  The  speaker's  topic 
was  "Conditioning  Capabilities  —  Billet  and 
Slab   Grinding".   He  specializes   in   abrasive 
grinding   wheels  for  foundry  and  steel  mill 
applications   at   AVCO   Bay   State.  ..  MIT's 
Lincoln    Laboratory,   Lexington,  Mass.,  em- 
ploys   DR.    VICTOR    S.     DOLAT,    physi- 
cist. ..  Coast     Guard     LT.     RICHARD     F. 
HEALING  recently  participated  in  the  res- 
cue of  three  survivors  from  a  plane  crash  in 
New  Haven,  Conn.  He  and  other  members 
of   his   reserve  unit  served  as  guards  at  the 
site  of  the  crash  which  took  place  4,000  feet 
short  of  the   runway   near    New    Haven.  .  . 
MAJOR  DAVID  Y.  HEALY  is  an  instructor 
pilot    in    the    U.S.M.C,    Meridian,    Miss.  .  . 
Stanford    Law    School,    Calif.,    awarded    a 
degree     of     Doctor     of     Jurisprudence     to 
ALFRED    H.    HEMINGWAY,  JR.,  in  June. 
He  has  accepted  a  position  with  a  law  firm 
in       New      York      City.  ..  GEORGE       L. 
KLANDER    is   personnel   director  at  North 
Charles       General       Hospital,       Baltimore, 
Md.  ..CAPTAIN      CLIFFORD      M.      Mac- 
DONALD    is  employed   by   Drexel   Univer- 
sity, Philadelphia,  Pa.,  as  an  assistant  profes- 
sor of  military  science.  .  .  Teaching  science 
at  Dighton-Rehoboth  Regional  High  School, 
North    Dighton,    Mass.,    is    DAVID    D.   MC- 
CAFFREY        of        Swansea.  .  .CAPTAIN 
STEPHEN  C.  NOBLE,  who  serves  at  NASA- 
Ames  Research  Ctr.,  Calif.,  resides  in  Sunny- 
vale. .  .  ALFRED   R.   POTVIN  is  employed 
by    the    University    of    Texas,    Arlington, 
Texas,  as  an  associate  professor  of  bioengi- 
neering.  Currently  finishing  his  PhD  require- 
ments     in      bioengineering,      he      recently 
received  his  MS  in  bioengineering  as  well  as 
his   MS   in    Psychology.  .  .  The    position  of 
staff  engineer  at  MIT  Lincoln  Laboratory  is 
held    by     STEVEN     B.     SACCO,    Norwell, 


Mass.  .  .  Having  completed  the  requirements 
for  a  master  of  science  degree  in  nuclear 
engineering,  FREDERIC  C.  SCOFIELD  now 
holds  the  position  of  staff  engineer  with  the 
Omaha,  Neb.,  Public  Power  District.  Pres- 
ently he  is  working  on  the  technical  super- 
vision staff  for  the  Fort  Calhoun  Nuclear 
Power  Station  which  is  under  construction 
by  the  Power  District.  .  .  DR.  DAVID  T. 
SIGNORI,  JR.,  serves  as  a  research  staff 
member  at  the  Institute  for  Defense  Anal- 
ysis in  Arlington,  Va.  .  .  MASON  H. 
SOMERVILLE  writes  that  he  holds  the  post 
of  senior  engineer  for  Westinghouse-Bettis 
Atomic  Power  Lab.,  West  Mifflin,  Pa.  .  . 
Residing  in  Mountain  View,  Calif., 
GERALD  ERNEST  TAMMI  is  manager  of 
product  development,  for  the  Digital  In- 
tegrated Circuits  Division  of  Fairchild  Semi- 
conductor, Palo  Alto.  .  .  ROBERT  F. 
WHITE  reports  that  he  is  a  digital  systems 
engineer  for  BD-Spear  Medical  Systems 
which  is  located  in  Waltham,  Mass. 


1965 

Married:  ROBERT  A.  JUCKINSto  Miss 
Helen  A.  O'Byrne  of  Worcester,  Mass.,  on 
June  19,  1971.  Robert  is  a  mechanical 
engineer  at  Wyman-Gordon  Co.,  North 
Grafton. 

Born:  to  Dr.  and  Mrs.  JOHN  T.  WIL- 
SON, a  daughter,  Paige  Anne,  May  12, 
1971.  Dr.  Wilson  is  a  structural  engineer 
with  Paul  J.  Ford,  Columbus,  Ohio. 

ALEXANDER  B.  CAMPBELL  II  is  man- 
ager central  region,  special  systems  support, 
for  Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Northbrook, 
III.  .  .  LEE  A.  CHOUINARD  reports  that  he 
has  been  transferred  from  American  Oil 
Company's  Texas  City  Refinery  to  the 
research  and  development  department  of 
Amoco  Chemicals  Corp.,  Whiting,  Indi- 
ana. .  .  Systems  engineer  for  Singer-General 
Precision-Link  Division,  Houston,  Texas,  is 
DAVID  B.  COOLEY.  ..  GARRETT  H. 
DeVLIEG,  employed  as  an  engineer  by 
Boeing  Company,  Renton,  Washington, 
resides  in  Bellevue.  .  .  Living  in  Palo  Alto, 
Calif.,  is  JAMES  F.  FEE  who  serves  as  an 
application  engineer  for  Teradyne.  .  . 
RICHARD  C.  FORTIER  is  a  full  time 
doctoral  student  in  applied  mechanics  at 
Northeastern  University,  Boston,  Mass.  .  . 
JAMES  E.  FRAPPIER  is  with  The  Badger 
Co.,  Inc.,  Worcester,  Mass.  .  .  It  was  recently 
announced  that  JOHN  P.  IANNOTTI  has 
been  promoted  to  systems  analyst  in  Divi- 
sion Operations  Administration  at  the  Penn- 
sylvania Power  &  Light  Co.,  Allentown,  Pa. 
John,  an  industrial  sales  engineer,  started 
with  PP  &  L  in  Scranton,  in  1965.  He  is  a 
member  of  the  Industrial  Management  Club, 
the  Hazleton  Jaycees  and  is  a  commissioner 
for  the  Boy  Scouts  of  America  Council, 
Hazleton.  .  .  Assistant  manager  for  the 
Tibon  Hard  Chrome  Co.,  Batavia,  N.Y.,  is 
ROBERT  H.  JACOBY.  .  .  IBM  Corp.,  Ham- 


den,  Conn.,  employs  SIDNEY  S.  KLEIN, 
marketing  representative.  Sidney  resides  in 
Orange,  Conn.  ..  CLINTON  F.  KUCERA, 
JR.,  serves  as  industrial  engineer  in  the 
Large  Steam  Turbine  Dept.  of  the  General 
Electric  Co.,  Schenectady,  N.Y.  .  .  PAT- 
RICK T.  MORAN  is  a  marketing  representa- 
tive for  IBM,  Chicago,  Illinois.  .  .The  presi- 
dent of  Phase-R  Corporation,  S.  EDWARD 
NEISTER,  resides  in  Center  Barnstead,  N.H. 
His  company  is  located  in  Durham.  .  . 
THOMAS  E.  PEASE  is  employed  by  Con. 
Edison  of  New  York  City  as  an  ocean- 
ographer.  Project  coordination  for  hydraulic 
modeling  at  Alden  Research  Laboratories 
(for  Con.  Edison)  is  his  major  responsibility 
.  .  .  CAPTAIN  JOHN  M.  PORTER  serves  as 
staff  chemical  officer  for  the  Theater  Army 
Support  Command  for  the  U.S.  Army  in 
Europe.  .  .  In  June  DAVID  M.  SCHWABER 
received  his  PhD  from  the  University  of 
Akron's  department  of  Polymer  Science  in 
Ohio.  Dr.  Schwaber  is  employed  at  the 
Monarch  Rubber  Company,  Inc.,  in  Balti- 
more, Md.  .  .  Studying  as  a  graduate  student 
in  computer  science  at  the  University  of 
Connecticut,  is  RONALD  R.  SCHULTZ 
who  lives  in  New  Britain.  .  .  HOWARD 
SHERRY  serves  on  the  technical  staff  of 
Mitre  Corp.,  McLean,  Va.  His  home  is  in 
Fairfax.  ..  The  Factory  Insurance  Associa- 
tion of  Houston,  Texas,  employs  OJARS  M. 
SILARAJS,  chemical  engineer.  .  .  Field  serv- 
ice representative,  ALFRED  G.  SYMONDS, 
has  been  transferred  by  General  Electric 
Co.,  Ordnance  Systems  from  Pittsfield, 
Mass.,  to  Newport  News,  Va.  .  .  DEAN  K. 
WHITE  is  an  engineer  for  Alden  Research 
Laboratories,  WPI. 


1966 

Married:  GARY  M.  ANDERSON  to  Miss 
Barbara  Ruth  Brinkmann  of  Allston,  Mass., 
on  August  14,  1971.  Gary  is  mechanical 
engineer  at  Metcalf  &  Eddy,  Inc.,  Boston- 
...  STEPHEN  E.  ANDERSON  to  Miss 
Frances  Ellen  Opalach  of  Hartford,  Conn., 
on  August  7,  1971.  Stephen  is  employed  as 
project  engineer  with  Lee  Co.  in  West- 
brook.  .  .  LT.  JOHN  B.  TATA  to  Miss  Iris 
A.  Villa  of  Seattle,  Washington,  on  August 
8,  1971.  Lt.  Tata  is  currently  serving  as  an 
instructor  of  navigation  at  the  U.S.  Naval 
Academy,  Annapolis,  Md.  .  .  ROBERT  D. 
WILSON  to  Miss  Kathleen  Rogers  of  Mill- 
bury,  Mass.,  on  August  8,  1971.  Robert  is  a 
graduate  student  in  the  mechanical  engineer- 
ing department  at  WPI. 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  JOHN  H. 
CAROSELLA,  a  son,  David  Burton,  on 
August  2,  1970.  John  is  employed  by  Delco 
Electronics  Division,  General  Motors  Corpo- 
ration, Milwaukee,  Wisconsin,  as  senior  proj- 
ect engineer.  .  .  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  RONALD 
C.  HAYDEN,  a  daughter,  Margaret  Eliza- 
beth,   on    September    16,   1971.    Ronald   is 


rue  lAim    ir\i  idii  a  i 


27 


employed  as  a  sales  engineer  with  Foxboro 
Co.  in  Baltimore,  Md.  .  .  To  Dr.  and  Mrs. 
ROBERT  P.  KOKERNAK,  a  daughter, 
Christine,  in  May  of  1971.  Dr.  Kokernak  is 
assistant  professor  of  engineering  at  Mount 
Wachusett  Community  College,  Gardner, 
Mass. 

JAY  J.  BOTOP  is  studying  for  a  BS  in 
business  administration  as  well  as  his  MBA 
at  the  University  of  Alabama,  Birming- 
ham. .  .  Self-employed  as  a  management 
consultant  is  J.  WILLIAM  BOWEN  who 
received  his  MBA  from  Harvard  recently.  He 
resides  in  Rockville  Center,  New  York.  .  . 
CAPTAIN  HOWARD  J.  BRALEY  is  sta- 
tioned at  the  USAF  Eastern  Test  Range, 
Cape  Kennedy  Air  Force  Station,  Fla.  .  . 
The  Diesel  Construction  Co.,  New  York 
City,  has  employed  SIGMUND  S.  DICKER, 
project  manager.  Sig.  resides  in  Ronkon- 
koma.  .  .  LT.  EUGENE  R.  DIONNE  serves 
as  chief  subsystem  engineer  at  Wright-Patter- 
son AFB  in  Ohio.  .  .  WILLIAM  F.  ELLIOTT 
has  been  named  director  of  admissions  at 
Carnegie-Mellon  University,  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 
Prior  to  his  becoming  associate  director  .in 
September  of  1970,  Bill  was  assistant  direc- 
tor of  admissions  at  WPI  for  four  years.  He 
has  an  MA  in  guidance  and  counseling  from 
Clark  University,  Worcester,  and  is  a  mem- 
ber of  the  National  Association  of  College 
Admissions  Counselors.  .  .  Serving  as  a  mem- 
ber of  the  technical  staff  for  Bell  Telephone 
Laboratories,  Whippany,  N.J.,  is  STEPHEN 
J.  FORMICA  who  lives  in  Stanhope.  .  . 
CAPTAIN  CAMERON  W.  HYDE  was  re- 
cently awarded  the  U.S.  Air  Force  Com- 
mendation Medal  at  Kirtland  AFB,  New 
Mexico.  Captain  Hyde  distinguished  himself 
by  meritorious  service  as  a  project  officer  in 
the  nuclear  safety  division.  Air  Force  weap- 
ons laboratory  at  Kirtland.  According  to  the 
citation,  his  outstanding  professional  skill, 
knowledge  and  leadership  aided  immeasur- 
ably in  identifying  and  solving  problems  in 
the  field  of  nuclear  safety...  The  Public 
Service  Electric  &  Gas  Co.  of  Newark,  N.J., 
has  employed  PETER  J.  KUDLESS  as  an 
engineer  in  the  gas  engineering  depart- 
ment. ..  RONALD  I.  LONGWELL  is  a 
maintenance  and  renewal  engineer  in  the 
generator  department  of  the  General  Elec- 
tric Co.,  Schenectady,  N.Y.  ..  JAMES  A. 
MARONEY  holds  the  dual  positions  of 
president  and  treasurer  of  Francis  H. 
Maroney,  Inc.,  which  is  located  in  Haverhill, 
Mass.  .  .  Studying  for  his  PhD  in  behavorial 
science  at  Nova  University,  Ft.  Lauderdale, 
Fla.,  is  DENNIS  D.  MURPHY.  .  .  RONALD 
F.  NAVENTI  is  with  Stone  &  Webster 
Engineering  in  Boston,  Mass.  .  .  GERALD  J. 
PARKER  is  employed  as  a  chemical  engi- 
neer by  the  Environmental  Protection 
Agency,  Office  of  Air  Programs,  Bureau  of 
Stationary  Source  Control,  Division  of  Com- 
pliance in  Durham,  N.C.  .  .  American  Inter- 
national College,  Springfield,  Mass.,  has  em- 
ployed   FRANK    K.   PFEIFFER,   JR.,  as  a 


visiting  lecturer  in  finance.  Frank,  who  was 
an  instructor  at  Bentley  College  last  year, 
expects  to  receive  his  doctorate  in  business 
administration  from  the  University  of 
Massachusetts  in  January  of  1972.  .  . 
RICHARD  J.  PIASECKI  is  now  project 
manager  for  Karl  Koch  Erecting  Co.,  Car- 
teret, N.J.  .  .  Employed  by  Remington  Rand 
OMD  Division  of  Sperry  Rand  Corp., 
RONALD  F.  PICHIERRI  works  as  project 
engineer  for  company  headquarters  in  Blue 
Bell,  Pa.,  and  resides  in  Lansdale.  .  . 
MICHAEL  T.  PORTANOVA  is  a  graduate 
student  in  the  economics  department  of  the 
University  of  Massachusetts,  Amherst, 
Mass.  .  .  Office  engineer  for  EBASCO  Serv- 
ices, Inc.,  Sioux  City,  Iowa,  is  JOHN  M. 
SMITH,  a  resident  of  Sergeant  Bluff.  .  . 
Hooker  Chemical  Corp.,  Niagara  Falls,  N.Y., 
employs  EARL  C.  SPARKS  III,  chemical 
engineer.  ..  CAPTAIN  JOHN  A.  STOCK- 
HAUS  is  with  the  U.S.  Army  Engineers 
Corps,  Ft.  Belvoir,  Va.  .  .  DR.  DOUGLAS  L. 
VIZARD  has  the  position  of  Postdoctoral 
Fellow  in  the  physics  department  of  the 
M.D.  Anderson  Hospital  and  Tumor  Insti- 
tute located  in  Houston,  Texas.  .  .  Com- 
puter systems  engineer  for  RCA,  Honolulu, 
Hawaii,  is  DAVID  ERNEST  WILSON... 
EUGENE  H.  WILUSZ  teaches  chemistry  at 
New  Bedford  High  School,  New  Bedford, 
Mass.  He  is  also  PhD  candidate  in  polymer 
science  and  engineering  at  the  University  of 
Massachusetts,  Amherst. 


1967 

Married:  EDWARD  J.  BOTWICK  to 
Miss  Bonnie  Lee  Miller  of  Woodbridge, 
Conn.,  on  July  1 1 ,  1971 .  Edward,  who  is  a 
process  development  engineer  for  Loctite 
Corp.,  Newington,  also  attends  the  Univer- 
sity of  Connecticut  Law  School,  Night 
Division.  ..  DEAN  W.  SCHOENFELD  to 
Miss  Elizabeth  Orene  Vaughan  of  Bartow, 
Fla.,  on  July  3,  1971.  Dean  is  a  graduate 
assistant  in  the  department  of  electrical 
engineering  at  WPI  where  he  is  a  candidate 
for  his  master's  degree  in  electrical  engi- 
neering. 

DR.  STEPHEN  R.  ALPERT,  who  re- 
cently earned  his  PhD  in  mathematics  from 
Lehigh  University  in  Pennsylvania,  has  been 
employed  as  an  assistant  professor  in  the 
computer  science  department  at  WPI.  .  . 
Optical  engineer  for  Raytheon  Co.,  Bedford, 
Mass.,  is  WARREN  L.  CLARK,  who  resides 
in  Billenca.  ..  MICHAEL  F.  FLOOD  is  a 
postgraduate  student  at  Kent  State  Univer- 
sity, Kent,  Ohio  .  .  Employed  as  an  assist- 
ant professor  of  electrical  engineering  at 
Southeastern  Massachusetts  University, 
North  Dartmouth,  is  DR.  LEE  EDWARD 
ESTES,  a  resident  of  Mattapoisett.  .  .  JOHN 
E.  HITCHCOCK  is  an  estimator  with 
Dunlop  &  Johnston,  Inc.,  Cleveland,  Ohio 
...  1st  LT.  FRANK  T.  JODAITIS  has  been 


installed  as  commanding  officer  of  Com- 
pany 8,  181st  Engineer  Batallion,  Webster, 
Mass.,  National  Guard  unit  according  to 
information  released  in  July  of  1971.  He  is 
also  employed  as  a  civil  engineer  with 
Metcalf  &  Eddy,  Engineers,  of  Boston.  .  . 
Project  engineer  for  Monsanto  Co.,  Indian 
Orchard,  Mass.,  is  DONALD  G.  LUTZ  of 
West  Springfield.  .  .  FRANK  D.  MANTER  is 
with  the  Jackson  &  Moreland  Division, 
United  Engineers  &  Constructors,  Inc., 
Boston,  Mass.  .  .  Betz  Labs,  Inc.,  Trevose, 
Pa.,  employs  WILLIAM  0.  MESSER,  tech- 
nical specialist.  .  .JAMES  P.  O'ROURKE 
teaches  in  the  engineering  department  at 
Worcester  Junior  College.  He  received  his 
MS  from  WPI  in  1971 .  .  .  MUKUNDRAY  N. 
PATEL  is  with  Combustion  Engineering, 
Overseas,  Inc.,  located  in  Andhra  Pradesh, 
India.  .  .  Employed  by  the  General  Motors 
Tech.  Center,  Warren,  Mich.,  as  a  research 
chemist,  NOEL  M.  POTTER  makes  his 
home  in  Sterling  Heights.  .  .  ALAN  H.  SUY- 
DAM  tests  and  evaluates  helicopter  propul- 
sion and  weapons  systems  for  the  Navy  and 
Marine  Corps  at  the  Air  Test  Center  in 
Patuxent  River,  Md.  .  .  Texas  Instruments, 
Inc.,  employs  ROBERT  CARLTON 
YOUNG  as  a  field  sales  engineer  in  Chicago, 
III...  WAYNE  T.  WIRTANEN  is  an  engi- 
neering assistant  with  Metcalf  &  Eddy,  Inc., 
Boston,  Mass.  He  lives  in  Natick.  .  .  PETER 
M.  HERRON  is  with  Hughes  Aircraft  Co., 
Denver,  Colo. 


1968 

Married:  DONALD  C.  ALDRICH  to 
Miss  Lois  Ann  Toothaker  of  Winchendon, 
Mass.,  on  June  12,  1971 .  Donald  is  studying 
for  his  doctorate  in  chemical  engineering  at 
Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology, 
Cambridge.  .  .  COBB  S.  GOFF  to  Miss  Eliza- 
beth Anne  Hubbard  of  East  Brunswick, 
N.J.,  on  July  17,  1971.  ROBERT  TEMPLIN 
and  DOUGLAS  FERRY         ushered 

at  the  wedding.  Cobb  has  been  recently 
assigned  by  the  Eastman  Kodak  Company 
to  the  photographic  technology  division, 
Kodak  Park,  Rochester,  N.Y.  He  is  a  photo- 
graphic engineer  and  resides  in  Spencer- 
port.  .  .  PAUL  D.  MATUKAITIS  to  Miss 
Patricia  E.  Cournoyer  of  Worcester,  Mass., 
on  July  24,  1971.  Operating  supervisor  at 
Monsanto  Co.,  Springfield,  Paul  attends  the 
evening  division  of  Western  New  England 
College,  where  his  major  is  law.  .  .  DR. 
MICHAEL  R.  PAIGE  to  Miss  Paula  Winsor 
Davis  of  Danville,  Illinois,  on  June  27,  1971 . 
Dr.  Paige  is  presently  employed  on  the 
technical  staff  of  General  Research  Corpora- 
tion, Santa  Barbara,  California.  .  .  FRED- 
ERICK W.  WHITE  to  Miss  Karen  Jean 
Nichols  of  Framingham,  Mass.,  on  August 
22,  1971 .  Frederick  is  employed  by  the  U.S. 
Navy  at  the  U.S.  Navy  Underwater  Systems 
Center  in  New  London,  Conn 


28 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  ROBERT  A. 
FALCIANI,  a  daughter,  Lisa  Ann,  on  June 
2,  1971.  Robert  serves  as  assistant  manager- 
industrial  systems  for  Babcock  &  Wilcox 
Co.,  Barberton,  Ohio.  He  resides  in  Canton 
...  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  ROBERT  C.  GOSLING 
a  daughter,  Jennifa  Ann,  on  September  1, 
1971 .  Bob  is  with  the  Public  Service  of  New 
Hampshire  in  Manchester.  ..  To  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  EDWARD  M.  HARPER,  a  daughter, 
Melissa,  on  June  6,  1971.  Edward  is  em- 
ployed as  a  design  engineer  for  the  Harper 
Buffing  Machine  Co.,  East  Hartford, 
Conn...  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  RAYMOND  F. 
RACINE,  a  son,  Darren  Michael,  on  January 
15,  1971.  Raymond  has  been  assigned  to 
the  rotor  design  section  of  G.  E.'s  mechan- 
ical drive  turbine  department,  Fitchburg, 
Mass.  ..DAVID  E.  ANDERSEN  is  a  tech- 
nical representative  at  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 
Nemours  &  Co.,  Inc.,  Philadelphia  and 
makes  his  home  in  West  Chester.  .  .  Univer- 
sal Engineering  Corp.,  Boston,  Mass.,  has 
employed  ARNOLD  J.  ANTAK  as  a  com- 
munity planner.  Arnie  lives  in  Waltham.  .  . 
ROBERT  E.  BALMAT  has  been  named  a 
financial  analyst  for  North  American  Rock- 
well Corp.,  Autonetics  Division,  located  in 
Anaheim,  California.  .  .  CAPTAIN  IVAN  V. 
BEGGS  has  been  transferred  from  Vietnam 
and  expects  to  be  stationed  in  Germany 
soon.  .  .  Design  engineer  at  Garrett  Corp.  — 
AiResearch  Mfg.  Co.,  is  WILLIAM  R. 
BELISLE  of  Long  Beach,  Calif.  .  .  A. 
LEONARD  BERGQUIST  is  employed  as  a 
field  service  representative  for  Beckman 
Instruments,  Inc.,  Wakefield,  Mass.  .  .  A  res- 
ident of  Framingham,  Mass.,  EDWARD  H. 
BORGESON,  serves  as  an  engineer-group 
leader  at  Raytheon  Co.  of  Wayland.  .  . 
VICTOR  V.  CALABRETTA,  JR.,  is  pres- 
ently a  graduate  assistant  at  WPI...  State 
Mutual  of  America  recently  announced  that 
RICHARD  L.  COLLINS  has  been  appointed 
actuarial  associate,  actuarial  planning. 
Richard  makes  his  home  in  Shrewsbury.  In 
1971  he  received  his  master's  degree  in 
actuarial  science  from  Northeastern  Univer- 
sity, Boston.  .  .  NORMAN  W.  COOK  is  a 
partner  in  Cook  Builders'  Supply  Co.,  West 
Springfield,  Mass.  .  .  The  Naval  Ordnance 
Station,  Indian  Head,  Md.,  employs 
GREGORY  C.  COX,  chemical  engineer.  .  . 
DAVID  P.  CROCKETT  serves  as  a  sales 
engineering  trainee  for  Buffalo  Forge  Com- 
pany, Buffalo,  N.Y.  .  .  Babson  College, 
Babson  Park,  Mass.,  has  among  its  MBA 
students,  JEFFREY  A.  DECKER,  who  re- 
sides in  Auburndale.  .  .  ROBERT  R. 
DEMERS  is  an  anesthesia  research  assistant 
at  Rhode  Island  Hospital,  Providence, 
R.I.  ..  Serving  as  research  engineer  at 
Monsanto  Co.,  Indian  Orchard,  Mass.,  is 
ROBERT  N.  GARLICK  who  makes  his 
home  in  East  Longmeadow.  .  .  GEOFFREY 
L.  HARTUNG  is  an  engineer  with  UniRoyal 
Chemical,  Baton  Rouge,  La.  .  .  The  U.S. 
Naval     Underwater     Systems    Center,    New 


London,  Conn.,  employs  WILLIAM  A. 
HAWKINS,  electronics  engineer.  .  .  JOSEPH 
J.  KASABULA  writes  that  he  is  currently  a 
chemist  (supervisor  of  special  analysis  sys- 
tems) for  Uniroyal  Chemical,  Division  of 
Uniroyal  Inc.,  Naugatuck,  Conn.  .  .  Holings- 
worth  &  Vose  Co.,  West  Groton,  Mass., 
has  given  DOUGLAS  W.  KLAUBER  the 
position  of  research  chemist.  .  .  JOHN  J. 
KOKOSZKA,  a  lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Army, 
is  employed  by  DCSLOG-Ammo,  HQ.- 
USARV,  APO,  San  Francisco,  Calif.  .  .  A 
physicist  for  Ion  Physics  Corp.,  S.  Bedford 
St.,  Burlington,  Mass.,  is  ROBERT  A. 
LOWELL,  who  makes  his  home  in 
Lynn.  .  .  JOHN  E.  LUNNEY  serves  as  a  field 
service  representative  for  General  Electric 
Co.,  Ordnance  Systems,  Pittsfield,  Mass.  His 
residence  is  in  Newport  News,  Va.  .  .  Cur- 
rently an  instructor  at  the  U.S.  Army 
Engineer  School,  Fort  Belvoir,  Va.,  is  WAL- 
TER C.  LYNICK  of  Uncasville,  Conn. 

Born:  To  1/Lt.  and  Mrs.  ISRAEL  MAC, 
a  daughter,  Mellissa  Rebecca,  on  October  9, 


The  following  names  were  in- 
advertently left  off  the  1970-71 
Alumni  Fund  Report  in  the  last 
issue 

ADDITIONAL  PRESIDENT'S  CLUB 
CONTRIBUTORS: 

Charles  C.  Bonin,  '38 
William  A.  Schuermann,  '21 


ADDITIONAL      JOHN 

CLUB  CONTRIBUTOR: 

Alan  F.  Swenson,  '49 


BOYNTON 


ADDITIONAL  CONTRIBUTORS 
Clifford  Broker,  '29 
Arthur  E.  Nichols,  Jr.,  '54 
Harvey  L.  Pastan,  '49 
Wilford  A.  Sutthill,  '29 


THE  ALUMNI  BELOW  SHOULD 
HAVE    BEEN  LISTED  AS 
CONTINUOUS  CONTRIBUTORS 

TO  THE  ALUMNI  FUND: 

*Gordon  H.  Raymond,  '42 
*Harvey  L.  Pastan,  '49 
*William  A.  Schuermann,  '21 
*  Allen  R.  Deschene,  '38 


1970.  Lt.  Mac  is  an  instructor  at  the  U.S. 
Army  Engineer  School,  Ft.  Belvoir,  Va.  .  . 
JOHN  D.  MacDOUGALL,  JR.,  serves  as  a 
mechanical  engineer  at  Lipe-Rollway  Corp., 
Research  Division,  Syracuse,  N.Y.  ..WIL- 
LIAM J.  McCANN,  JR.,  who  was  promoted 
to  Captain,  USA,  in  June,  is  presently  in 
Vietnam  with  the  office  of  the  assistant 
chief  of  staff  for  maintenance,  Danang 
Support  Command.  He  and  Mrs.  McCann 
have  a  son,  William  J.  McCann  III,  who  was 
born  on  March  25,  1971 .  .  .  The  U.S.  Naval 
Underwater  Systems  Center,  Newport,  R.I., 
employs  STEVEN  MEDOFF,  electronics 
engineer.  .  .  JOHN  J.  ORCIUCH  works  as  a 
process  engineer  at  Uniroyal,  Inc.,  Nauga- 
tuck, Conn.  .  .  Research  &  development 
engineer  for  General  Dynamics  Electric  Boat 
Division,  Groton,  Conn.,  is  ALLEN 
PALMER.  .  .  JAMES  M.  PALMER  has  been 
employed  as  team  manager  for  Procter  & 
Gamble,  Foods  Division,  Jackson,  Tenn.  .  . 
Serving  as  an  Aircraft  Maintenance  Officer 
at  Whiteman  AFB,  Missouri,  is  1st/Lt. 
THOMAS  J.  PERARO  whose  home  address 
is  in  Enfield,  Conn.  .  .  RICHARD  G.  PER- 
REAULT,  who  has  been  stationed  in  Ger- 
many for  over  two  years,  was  promoted  to 
Captain  in  April  1971.  He  writes  that  he 
would  appreciate  hearing  from  his  former 
classmates.  His  address  is:  HHC  10th  Engi- 
neer Battalion,  Kitzinger,  Germany,  APO 
New  York,  N.Y.,  09701.  (Capt.  R.  G. 
Perreault  045361824).  ..  The  U.S.  Army 
Natick  Labs,  has  employed  RONALD  A. 
PORTER,  physicist.  .  .  ROGER  W.  PRYOR 
recently  received  his  MS  degree  at  The 
Pennsylvania  State  University,  University 
Park,  Pa.  .  .  STEPHEN  M.  PYTKA  has  em- 
ployment as  a  development  engineer  with 
Western  Electric  Co.,  Kwajalein  Atoll,  in  the 
Marshall  Islands.  .  .  Stationed  in  England 
and  working  as  a  weather  forecaster  is  LT. 
RONALD  D.  REHKAMP  who  has  been 
assigned  to  Bentwaters  RAF  Station.  Lt. 
Rehkamp  is  in  the  USAF.  .  .  It  was  recently 
announced  that  BERNARD  J.  ROMANIK 
was  promoted  to  Army  Captain  near 
Butzbach,  Germany.  Capt.  Romanik  is  the 
supply  officer  for  the  16th  signal  battalion's 
headquarters  located  in  the  Butzbach  area 
.  .  .  RICHARD  S.  SADOWSKI  works  as  a 
mechanical  engineer  at  Riley  Stoker  Corp., 
Worcester,  Mass.  .  .  Stone  &  Webster  Engi- 
neering Corp.  has  transferred  DAVID  R. 
SPEIRS  from  Boston  to  St.  Gabriel,  La.  He 
resides  in  Baton  Rouge.  ..  J.  KEVIN  SUL- 
LIVAN is  a  MBA  student  at  the  University 
of  California  at  Berkeley.  .  .  TELCOM,  Inc., 
of  McLean,  Va.,  employs  GEOFFREY  P. 
TAMULONIS,  engineer.  Geoffrey  received 
his  MSEE  from  New  York  University  in 
1971.  ..  MICHAEL  J.  TRUE  is  a  process 
and  product  development  engineer  at  Uni- 
royal Chemical,  Naugatuck,  Conn.  .  . 
Quality  control  engineer  for  General  Elec- 
tric Co.,  Fitchburg,  Mass.,  is  RICHARD  B. 
VAUGHN,  who  resides  in  Leominister. 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


29 


MORGAN 
CONSTRUCTION  CO, 

ENGINEERS  &  MANUFACTURERS 
WORCESTER,  MASSACHUSETTS  01605 


1969 

Married:  CAMERON  P.  BOYD  to  Miss 
Judith  Ann  Michael  of  Manchester,  N.H.,  on 
September  5,  1971.  Cameron  teaches  in  the 
Haverhill,  Mass.,  school  system.  .  .  JAMES 
W.  HAURY  to  Miss  Kathleen  Alane  Wood 
of  Ayer,  Mass.,  on  July  17,  1971.  James  is 
employed  by  Farrel  Co.,  Ansonia,  Conn.  .  . 
STEVEN  A.  HUNTER  to  Miss  Martha  J. 
Fuller  of  Worcester,  Mass.  on  August  14, 
1971.  Steven  is  a  candidate  for  his  master's 
degree  in  mechanical  engineering  at  WPI.  .  . 
MARK  H.  LePAIN  to  Miss  Cheryl  Pamela 
Turturro  of  Danvers,  Mass.,  on  August  29, 
1971.  Mark,  a  former  employee  of  the 
Westinghouse  Corp.  in  Washington,  D.C.,  is 
stationed  with  the  Army  on  Long  Island.  .  . 
RICHARD  H.  McCUE,  JR.,  to  Miss  Susan 
M.  Roling  of  Dubuque,  Iowa,  on  May  30, 
1971 .  Richard  serves  as  a  process  engineer  at 
Stone  &  Webster  Engineering  Corp.,  Boston, 
Mass.  ..  RICHARD  S.  SMITH  to  Miss 
Patricia  Ann  Cusson  of  Worcester,  Mass.,  on 
August  7,  1971.  Richard  is  a  mechanical 
engineer  at  Xerox  Corp.,  in  Webster, 
N.Y.  .  .  DAVID  A.  ZLOTEK  to  Miss  Nancy 
Carol  Dipersia  of  Worcester  on  June  26, 
1971.  David  is  a  graduate  teaching  assistant 
at  Purdue  University,  Lafayette,  Ind.,  where 
he  is  enrolled  in  the  PhD  program  in 
electrical  engineering. 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  RONALD 
GERALD  ROBERTS,  a  son,  Jason  Michael, 
on  April  3,  1971.  The  new  father  is  a 
planning  engineer  with  Western  Electric  Co., 
North  Andover,  Mass. 

Little  Falls  Central  School,  Little  Falls, 
N.Y.,  employs  RICHARD  D.  ALPERTasan 
instructor  in  mathematics  and  computer 
science.  .  .  2/LT.  WARREN  L.  ANDERSON 
has  been  transferred  from  USAF,  Reese 
AFB,  Texas,  to  Mather  Air  Force  Base, 
Sacramento,  Calif.,  where  he  serves  as  a 
pilot.  .  .  JEFFREY  C.  BERNARD  is  a  grad- 
uate student  at  the  University  of  Massachu- 
setts, Amherst.  .  .  The  U.S.  Army  Corps  of 


Engineers  employs  RICHARD  C.  CARL- 
SON, civil  engineer,  Waltham,  Mass.  .  . 
Down  in  Venezuela,  South  America  is 
RODNEY  A.  DAHLSTROM  who  is  a  proc- 
ess engineer  for  the  Orinoco  Mining  Co.  .  . 
RALPH  J.  ESCHBORN  II  has  an  engineer- 
ing position  in  the  pigments  department  of 
E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.,  Edge 
Moor,  Del.  .  .  The  Naval  Civil  Engineering 
Laboratory,  Port  Hueneme,  Calif.,  employs 
RICHARD  H.  GURSKE  as  a  sanitary  engi- 
neer. .  .  DONALD  G.  JOHNSON  is  director 
of  camping  for  the  New  England  Synod 
Lutheran^  Church  in  America,  Camp  Calu- 
met Luth'eran  in  West  Ossipee,  N.H.  .  !  Serv- 
ing as  assistant  bridge  engineer  for  the  State 
of  California  —  Division  of  Highways,  Sacra- 
mento, is  CHRISTOPHER  J.  MASKLEE 
who  resides  in  Panorama  City.  .  .  Safeguards 
Engineer  for  G.  E.'s  Knolls  Atomic  Power 
Lab.,  Schenectady,  N.Y.  is  ANDREW  T. 
PERREWULT.  .  .  E.  I.  du  Pont-Eichem 
Vinyls  employs  ROBERT  J.  ROSE,  task 
force  engineer  of  Houston,  Texas.  .  .  JAMES 
V.  ROSSI  holds  the  position  of  marine 
engineer  with  General  Dynamics,  Quincy, 
Mass.  ..  An  East  Providence,  R. I.,  resident, 
JOHN  J.  SZOSTEK,  is  an  associate  produc- 
tion engineer  for  New  England  Power  Co., 
Somerset,  Mass.  ..JOHN  S.  THOMPSON, 
JR.,  was  awarded  his  MBA  from  Harvard 
University  in  June  1971.  He  is  now  a 
Lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Army.  .  .  B.  LEE 
TUTTLE  is  a  Fellow  at  Penn.  State  Univer- 
sity, University  Park,  Pa. 


1970 

Married:  CHARLES  E.  BASNER  and 
Miss  Dawn  Lucille  Oakes  of  Lockport,  N.Y., 
on  Sept.  4,  1971.  The  couple  will  be  living 
in  Sunnyvale,  Calif.,  where  the  groom  is 
completing  his  training  program  with  the 
Department  of  Transportation  with  the 
Federal  Government.  .  .  HARRIS  C.  HOW- 
LAND   to    Miss    Elizabeth    Herrick   Shea   of 


STATEMENT  OF  OWNERSHIP, 
MANAGEMENT  AND  CIRCULATION 

(Act  of  October  23,  1962:  Section  4369, 
Title  39,  United  States  Code) 
1.  Date  of  filing.  September  28,  1971.  2. 
Title  of  publication.  THE  JOURNAL.  3. 
Frequency  of  issue.  Four  times  per  year.  4. 
Location  of  known  office  of  publication 
(Street,  city,  county,  state,  zip  code).  Insti- 
tute Road,  Worcester,  Worcester,  Massachu- 
setts 01609.  5.  Location  of  the  headquarters 
or  general  business  offices  of  the  publishers 
(Not  printers).  Institute  Road,  Worcester, 
Massachusetts  01609.  6.  Names  and  address- 
es of  publisher,  editor,  and  managing  editor. 
Publisher  (Name  and  address).  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester,  Massachu- 
setts 01609.  Editor  (Name  and  address).  H. 
Russell  Kay,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute, Worcester,  Mass.  01609.  Managing 
Editor  (Name  and  address).  None.  7.  Owner 
(If  owned  by  a  corporation,  its  name  and 
address  must  be  stated  and  also  immediately 
thereunder  the  names  and  addresses  of 
stockholders  owning  or  holding  1  percent  or 
more  of  total  amount  of  stock.  If  not 
owned  by  a  corporation,  the  names  and 
addresses  of  the  individual  owners  must  be 
given.  If  owned  by  a  partnership  or  other 
unincorporated  firm,  its  name  and  address, 
as  well  as  that  of  each  individual  must  he 
given.)  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute, 
Worcester,  Massachuestts  01609.  8.  Known 
bondholders,  mortgagees,  and  other  security 
holders  owning  or  holding  1  percent  or 
more  of  total  amount  of  bonds,  mortgages 
or  other  securities  (If  there  are  none,  so 
state).  None.  9.  For  completion  by  nonprof- 
it organizations  authorized  to  mail  at  special 
rates  (Section  132.122,  Postal  Manual).  The 
purpose,  function,  and  nonprofit  status  of 
this  organization  and  the  exempt  status  for 
Federal  income  tax  purposes  have  not 
changed  during  preceding  12  months.  (If 
changed,  publisher  must  submit  explanation 
of  change  with  this  statement.)  10.  Extent 
and  nature  of  circulation. 


Average  No. 
Copies  Each 
Issue  during 
Preceding     P 

A.  Total  no.  copies  printed  12  M°nths 
(Net  press  run). 

B.  Paid  circulation. 

1.  Sales  through 
dealers  and 
carriers,  street 
vendors  and 
counter  sales. 

2.  Mail  subscriptions. 

C.  Total  paid  circulation 

D.  Free  distribution 
(including  samples) 
by  mail,  carrier 
or  other  means. 

E.  Total  distribution 
(Sum  of  C  and  D). 

F.  Office  use,  left-over, 
unaccounted,  spoiled 
after  printing. 

G.  Total  (Sum  of  E  &  F  - 
should  equal 
net  press  run 
shown  in  A).  12,000 


12,000 


11,151 


11,152 


848 


Actual  Num! 

of  Copies  c 

Single  Issu 

ublished  Nea 

to  Filing  Da 

13,500 


11,608 
11,609 

1,891 
13,500 


I  certify  that  the  statements  made  by  me 
above  are  correct  and  complete. 

H.  Russell  Kay,  Editor 

Beverly  Farms,  Mass.,  on  September  11, 
1971.  Harris  is  field  engineer  for  the  General 
Electric  Co.,  Baltimore,  Md.  .  .  LT.  JEF- 
FREY C.  MANTY  to  Miss  Christine  Marie 


30 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL    . 


Nelson  of  Templeton,  Mass.,  on  August  20, 
1971.  Lt.  Manty  serves  with  the  U.S.  Army 
Ordnance  Corps  in  Bamberg,  Germany.  .  . 
GEORGE  P.  MOORE  to  Miss  Karen  Marie 
Brown  of  Grafton,  Mass.,  on  August  7, 
1971.  George  is  a  law  student  at  Suffolk 
University,  Boston,  Mass.,  his  residence 
being  in  Waltham.  .  .  BARRY  W.  SODEN  to 
Miss  Madeline  Jean  LaValley  of  Feeding 
Hills,  Mass.,  on  August  28,  1971.  The 
couple  will  reside  in  Marlborough.  Barry  is 
with  Boston  Edison  Co.,  Framingham. 

Married:  FRANCIS  A.  VERNILE  to 
Miss  Sally  Ann  Kalentkowski  of  New 
Britain,  Conn.,  on  August  21,  1971.  The 
groom  is  a  graduate  student  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Connecticut  in  Storrs. 

DAVID  D.  ANDRE  has  a  position  as 
actuarial  trainee  at  Mass.  Mutual  Life  Insur- 
ance Co.,  which  is  located  in  Springfield, 
Mass.  .  .  Sales  coordinator  for  Coppus  Engi- 
neering Corp.,  Worcester,  Mass.,  is  DANIEL 
K.  BREEN  of  Hopedale.  .  .2/LT.  ROBERT 
C.  COURNOYER  serves  as  watch  officer  for 
the  U.S.  Army  at  Vint  Hill  Farm  Station, 
Warrenton,  Va.  .  .  DINKAR  V.  DESAI 
works  as  senior  research  associate  at  Poly- 
technic Institute  of  Brooklyn,  N.Y.  .  .  The 
biomedical  engineering  dept.  at  WPI  em- 
ploys DR.  ROBERT  J.  HARVEY,  affiliate 
associate  professor.  .  .  Teaching  in  the 
Lebanon,    N.H.,    High    School    mathematics 


department  is  PHILIP  H.  JOHNSON  who 
makes  his  home  in  Lyme.  .  .  ROGER  L. 
JOHNSON  works  for  the  Medical  Systems 
Department  of  General  Electric  Co.,  Mil- 
waukee, Wise.  He  is  in  the  management 
training  program.  .  .  Now  working  in  pollu- 
tion control  research  at  Riley-Stoker  Co., 
Worcester,  is  STEPHEN  A.  JOHNSON  of 
Holden.  .  .  Western  Electric,  North  Andover, 
Mass.,  employs  ROBERT  C.  KEENAN.who 
resides  in  Salem,  N.H.  .  .  JONATHAN  W. 
LEAVITT  works  at  Alden  Research  Lab., 
WPI.  He  lives  in  Holden,  Mass.  .  .  New 
England  Electric  System,  Systems  Planning 
Dept.,  employs  JOHN  F.  MALLEY  as  an 
engineer  in  training.  .  .  Form  Roll  Die  Corp., 
West  Boylston,  Mass.,  has  named  ROLAND 
A.  MASON  as  assistant  general  manager.  He 
makes  his  home  in  Sterling  Jet.  .  .  LT.  WIL- 
LIAM R.  NAAS  is  stationed  with  the  U.S. 
Army  at  Ft.  Meade,  Md.  He  lives  in  Laurel 
...JOHN  P.  OBER  serves  in  the  62nd 
Engineer  Co.,  U.S.  Army,  overseas  in  Italy 
...  A  traffic  control  installer  for  C.  I.  R. 
Electrical  Contractors,  Hampden,  Mass.,  is 
RAYMOND  C.  PAULK,  one  of  the  founders 
of  the  firm.  .  .  F.  DAVID  PLOSS  is  with 
Trane  Co.,  Detroit,  Michigan.  .  .  Studying  at 
WPI  as  a  graduate  student  is  RICHARD  J. 
SCHWARTZ  who  resides  in  Worcester.  .  . 
Marine  Lance  Corporal  WILLIAM  D. 
SMITH    has    reported    for    duty    with    the 


Headquarters    &    Service   Co.   of   the   Third 
Marine  Division  on  Okinawa. 

Now  a  resident  of  State  College,  Pa., 
ROBERT  T.  STULA  studies  as  a  graduate 
student  at  Penn.  State  University,  University 
Park.  .  .  P  &  L  Biochemicals,  Milwaukee, 
Wise,  employs  JOSEPH  A.  TOCE,  chemist 
.  .  .  American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  — 
Long  Lines,  White  Plains,  N.Y.,  has  named 
STEVEN  A.  UDELL  as  accounting  opera- 
tions supervisor.  .  .  ROSS  E.  WEAVER 
works  in  the  capacity  of  field  engineer  for 
the  Factory  Insurance  Association,  Boston, 
Mass.  Derry,  N.H.,  is  his  home.  .  .  ROBERT 
PAUL  WHITFORD  serves  as  design  engineer 
for  the  General  Electric  Co.  in  Fitchburg, 
Mass. 


1971 

Married:  MARK  A.  AGLIO  to  Miss 
Michelle  Ann  Boulette  of  Whitinsville, 
Mass.,  on  August  28,  1971.  Mark  teaches  at 
Our  Lady  of  Providence  Preparatory  Semi- 
nary in  Providence,  R.I.  .  .  J.  LEE  CRISTY 
and  Mary  Ann  Therese  Melos  of  Rochester, 
N.Y.,  on  September  11.  The  groom  is  a 
consulting  systems  analyst  at  the  Fallon 
Clinic,  Inc.,  Worcester,  Mass.  .  .  LOREN  L. 
COMPSON  to  Miss  Joyce  Shepherd  of 
Vieedsport,  N.Y.,  on  July  31,  1971.  Loren 
serves    as    a    cost    engineer    for    Torrington 


Engineering  Ingenuity 

key  to  industrial  progress 


Doubling  production  doesn't  necessarily  have  to 
double  cost,  particularly  when  a  little  ingenuity  is 
applied.  This  two-spindle  attachment,  developed  by  our 
ACRACENTER  engineers,  finishes  two  identical  parts  at 
the  same  time  on  a  Heald  3-axis  N/C  contouring  ACRA- 
CENTER, yet  it  increases  the  equipment  cost  by  only  6%. 

The  two-spindle  attachment  is  used  for  numerically 
controlled  contour  milling,  drilling,  boring  and  reaming 
pairs  of  identical  parts.  The  unit  itself  can  be  aligned 
with  either  the  X  or  Y  axis,  can  be  removed  in  a  few 
minutes  and  the  ACRACENTER  again  becomes  a  single 
spindle  machine  for  larger  workpieces. 

When  it  comes  to  engineering  ingenuity  ...  it  pays 
to  come  to  Heald  .  .  .  where  metal  working  needs  meet 
new  ideas. 


#SY?  CINCINNATI 


MILACRON 

Cincinnati  Milacron-Hsald  Corp. 
Worcester,  Mass.  01606 

Made  in  U.S.A. 


;HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


31 


Construction  Co.,  Glens  Falls,  N.Y.  .  . 
JAMES  F.  CRITTENDEN  and  Miss  Pen- 
elope A.  Fuller  of  West  Hartford,  Conn.,  on 
Sept.  5,  1970.  Jim  is  a  partner  in  the 
Residential  Asphalt  Protection  Co.,  West 
Hartford.  He  lives  in  New  Britain.  .  . 
EDWARD  F.  CUNNINGHAM  to  Miss  Mary 
Ellen  Miller  of  Waterbury,  Conn.,  on 
October  2,  1971...  KEVIN  J.  DONAHUE 
and  Miss  Maria  Lee  Glennon  of  Worcester, 
Mass.,  on  August  1,  1971.  Kevin  works  as  a 
junior  engineer  for  the  City  of  Worcester, 
Municipal  Airport.  .  .  RICHARD  E.  DYNIA 
to  Miss  Patricia  Anne  Lucibello  of  Meriden, 
Conn.,  on  September  24,  1971.  Serving  the 
bridegroom  were  his  WPI  classmates  PHILIP 
JOHNSON,  best  man;  and  JOSEPH 
AUSANKA  and  THOMAS  COPP,  ushers. 
The  groom  is  a  design-manufacturing  engi- 
neer for  IONA  Mfg.  Corp.,  Manchester, 
Conn. 

Married:  DWIGHT  P.  EDDY  to  Miss 
Linda  Anne  Trombley  of  Haverhill,  Mass., 
on  July  25,  1970.  Dwight  is  a  data  process- 
ing design  manager  at  Norden  Division, 
UAC,  Norwalk,  Conn.  .  .  ERNEST  .R. 
JOYAL  and  Miss  Christina  Argo  of  Green- 
ville, R.I.,  on  May  28,  1971.  The  groom  is 
employed  at  the  U.S.  Naval  Ship  Engineer- 
ing Center,  Hyattsville,  Md.  .  .  PETER  A. 
SALIS  to  Miss  Susan  Marion  Harrington  of 
Nashua,  N.H.,  on  June  19,  1971 .  The  couple 
is  residing  in  Speedway,  Ind.  Peter  has  been 
employed  by  the  National  Starch  &  Chemi- 
cal Corp.,  Indianapolis.  .  .  DONALD  J. 
USHER  and  Miss  Lyn  Anne  Hudson  of 
Malvern,  Pa.,  on  June  12,  1971.  Don  is  a 
construction  engineer  with  Babcock  &  Wil- 
cox Co.,  Barberton,  Ohio.  .  .  ANDREW  J. 
GRIFFIN  and  Miss  Victoria  A.  Goucher  of 
Milford,  Mass.,  on  May  27,  1971.  The 
couple  resides  in  Millington,  Tenn...  WIL- 
LIAM A.  PHILBROOK  to  Miss  Dianne  M. 
Beaudoin  of  Millbury,  Mass.,  on  August  21, 
1971.  The  groom  is  a  test  technician  for 
Incoterm,  Marlboro. 

CARL  E.  GILMORE  is  currently  a 
graduate  student  studying  at  the  University 
of  Florida  which  is  located  in  Gainesville.  .  . 
JAMES  K.  ABRAHAM  is  the  manager  of 
the  environmental  testing  division  of  Com- 
mercial Testing  &  Engineering  Co.,  Chicago, 
Illinois.  His  residence  is  in  Evanston.  .  . 
Public  Service  Electric  &  Gas  Co.,  New 
Brunswick,  N.J.,  employs  JOHN  EDWARD 
ANDERSON  as  a  cadet  engineer.  .  .  PAUL 
B.  ASH  is  a  graduate  student  at  the  Univer- 
isty  of  Massachusetts,  Amherst,  Mass.  .  . 
Now  living  in  Biddeford,  Me.,  is  ROLAND 
R.  BATSON.  .  .  TODD  A.  BENJAMIN  has 
accepted  a  field  engineering  position  with 
General  Electric's  Installation  and  Service 
Engineering  Department,  Schenectady, 
N.Y.  .  .  The  New  Haven,  Conn.,  Water  Com- 
pany employs  GEORGE  E.  BLOCK,  JR., 
civil  engineer.  .  .  GLENN  E.  BRIER  is  with 
General  Data  Conn.  Industries,  Inc.,  in 
Norwalk,   Conn.  ..  PROFESSOR    JOHN    N. 


BRUSSEAU  of  the  engineering  department 
of  Western  New  England  College,  Spring- 
field, Mass.,  was  a  busy  man  in  October. 
During  that  month  he  spoke  at  the  meeting 
of  the  Connecticut  Chapter  of  the  Institute 
of  Electrical  and  Electronics  Engineers  in 
New  Haven,  the  title  of  his  talk  being 
"Spectrum  Analysis  of  EEG  Waves".  He  also 
spoke  at  the  Yale  faculty  club  and  was 
preparing  an  address  to  be  given  at  the 
national  conference  of  the  Institute  of 
Electrical  and  Electronics  Engineers  Profes- 
sional Group  for  Engineering  in  Medicine 
and  Biology  in  Las  Vegas,  Nev.  .  .  General 
Staff  Reporter  for  the  Worcester  Telegram 
&  Gazette,  Clinton,  Mass.,  office  is  PAUL  J. 
CLEARY.  .  .  Westinghouse  Electric  Corp., 
Philadelphia,  Pa.,  has  named  DANIEL  E. 
DEMERS  an  associate  engineer.  .  .  His 
brother,  DAVID  J.  DEMERS,  is  also  with 
Westinghouse,  but  is  located  with  the  sur- 
face division  in  Baltimore,  Md.  .  . 
GREGORY  S.  DICKSON  has  employment 
as  a  production  development  engineer  at 
Dow  Chemical,  Gales  Ferry,  Conn.  .  . 
DANIEL  T.  DONAHUE  is  serving  with  the 
Peace  Corps.  .  .  Dravo  Corp.,  Pittsburgh,  has 
named  STEPHEN  B.  DOUGLAS  an  associ- 
ate engineer.  He  lives  in  Emsworth,  Pa.  .  . 
DONALD  G.  FOGG,  JR.,  is  with  Procter  & 
Gamble  Co.,  Cincinnati,  Ohio,  and  resides  in 
Chester.  .  .  Navy  Airman  Apprentice 

ANDREW  J.  GRIFFIN  recently  completed 
the  28-day  recruit  phase  of  the  Navy's 
"Four-to-Ten-Month"  active  duty  program 
at  the  Naval  Air  Station,  Millington, 
Tenn.  .  .  JOHN  M.  GRIFFIN  has  been  em- 
ployed by  the  New  England  Telephone  and 
Telegraph  Company  of  Boston,  Mass.  His 
home  is  in  Braintree.  .  .  Working  as  a  design 
engineer  at  Hamilton  Standard,  Windsor 
Locks,  Conn.,  is  ROBERT  P.  HART.  .  . 
WILLIAM  E.  HELLIWELL,  JR.,  has  ac- 
cepted a  position  as  field  engineer  with 
Riley  Stoker  Corp.  of  Worcester,  Mass.  He  is 
presently  located  in  Columbia,  S.C.  .  . 
Studying  as  a  graduate  student  at  the 
University  of  Connecticut  at  Storrs,  is 
DOUGLAS  E.  HOLMES.  ..  LOUIS  R. 
HOWAYECK  serves  in  the  supply  inventory 
management  division  of  the  Air  National 
Guard.  .  .  Uniroyal,  Inc.,  of  Naugatuck, 
Conn.,  has  named  NORMAN  E.  JOHNSON 
as  a  junior  engineer.  .  .  Omnitech,  Inc., 
Dudley,  Mass.,  employs  PHILIP  M.  JOHN- 
SON, chemist.  ..  GERALD  J.  KERSUS  is 
an  electronics  engineer  with  U.S.  Naval 
Electronics  System  and  Evaluation  Facility, 
St.  Inigoes,  Md.  .  .  DANIEL  F.  KING  is  with 
the  New  England  Nuclear  Corporation, 
Boston,  Mass.  .  .  Serving  as  a  Peace  Corps 
Trainee  in  Jamaica,  W.I.,  is  MYLES  H. 
KLEPER  of  Hamden,  Conn.  ..  Chemical 
engineer  CLAUDE  P.  MANCEL's  business 
address  is  8  rue  Etienne  Jodelle,  Paris  18, 
France.  .  .  SCOTT  T.  McCANDLESS  works 
as  a  highway  engineer  for  Howard,  Needles, 
Tammen    &    Bergendoff,    Boston,    Mass.  .  . 


Agricultural  engineer  for  Duncan  Schil linger 
Farm,  Scottsville,  N.Y.,  is  WILLIAM  R. 
MELVILLE  III.  .  .  RAVINDRA  M.  NENE 
serves  as  a  field  engineer  for  Burroughs 
Corp.,  Boston,  his  residence  being  in  Somer- 
ville,  Mass.  .  .  DR.  SANDER  E.  NYDICK 
has  accepted  a  position  as  senior  develop- 
ment engineer  with  Thermo  Electron  Corp., 
Waltham,  Mass.  He  makes  his  home  in 
Stow.  .  .  The  Electric  Boat  Division,  General 
Dynamics  Corp.,  has  named  ROBERT  A. 
PACE  associate  engineer.  ..  VINCENT  T. 
PACE  is  an  electrical  construction  field 
engineer  for  Philadelphia  Electric  Co.,  Phila- 
delphia, Pa.  .  .  Residing  in  Gloversville, 
N.Y.,  JOHN  G.  PLONSKY  works  for  the 
General  Telephone  Co.  of  Upstate  N.Y.,  in 
Johnstown.  .  .  ANTHONY  SCHEPIS  has  ac- 
cepted the  position  of  industrial  engineer 
with  the  Sealy  Mattress  Co.,  of  Randolph, 
Mass.  .  .  STEPHEN  T.  SERGIO  is  a  2/Lt.  in 
the  U.S.  Army  at  Fort  Benning,  Ga.  .  . 
BRUCE  SODERMAN  writes  that  he  is  a 
Private  serving  with  the  Army  and  is  sta- 
tioned at  Ft.  Dix,  N.J.  .  .  Peace  Corps  volun- 
teer JOHN  F.  SPERANDIO  is  stationed  in 
Uganda,  Africa,  where  he  expects  to  spend 
the  next  two  years.  .  .  RONALD  C. 
STRAND  has  been  employed  by  Camp, 
Dresser  &  McKee,  Inc.,  Boston,  Mass.  .  . 
Granger  Construction  Co.,  Inc.,  has  named 
PAUL  R.  SWENSON  as  field  engineer  in 
Worcester,  Mass.  He  lives  in  Jefferson.  .  . 
RICHARD  V.  TINO,  JR.,  holds  the  position 
of  quality  control  engineer  for  Polaroid 
Corp.,  Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  BRUCE  R.  TOMP- 
KINS is  with  the  Torrington  Construction 
Co.,  Glens  Falls,  N.Y.  His  home  is  in  Lake 
George.  .  .  Among  the  graduate  students  at 
Duke  University,  Durham,  N.C.,  is  NOEL 
TOTTI  III  of  Puerto  Rico.  Noel  comes  from 
quite  a  line  of  WPI  graduates,  including  his 
grandfather,  Noel  Totti  of  the  class  of  191 1 ; 
his  father,  Noel  Totti,  Jr.,  '42;  his  grand- 
uncle,  Etienne  Totti,  '11  and  his  cousin, 
Etienne  Totti,  Jr.,  '42.  .  .  The  Philadelphia 
Electric  Co.,  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  employs 
THOMAS  O.  VANDEVENTER  of  Narberth 
.  .  .  RAVINDRA  K.  VORA  is  associate  engi- 
neer for  Otis  Elevator  Co.,  in  Yonkers, 
N.Y.  .  .  Serving  as  a  supervisory  assistant  for 
New  England  Tel.  &  Tel.  Co.,  Pittsfield, 
Mass.,  is  STEVEN  C.  WATSON.  .  .  Recently 
commissioned  as  an  Army  Second  Lieuten- 
ant at  Indiantown  Gap  Military  Reservation, 
Annville,  Pa.,  was  THOMAS  J.  WERB.  .  . 
GLENN  H.  WHITE  is  serving  as  a  Peace 
Corps  trainee  in  Washington,  D.C.  .  .  Curtis 
1000,  Inc.,  West  Hartford,  Conn.,  employs 
ROBERT  A.  WOOLLACOTT,  JR.,  manage- 
ment trainee.  ..  RONALD  L.  ZARRELLA 
has  a  position  as  production  supervisor  at 
Clairol,  Inc.,  Stamford,  Conn.  He  lives  in 
Waterbury.  .  .  MICHAEL  P.  ZARRILLI  re- 
ports that  he  is  a  graduate  student  at  the 
Wharton  School  of  Finance  &  Commerce 
(University  of  Pennsylvania),  in  Philadel- 
phia. 


32 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Feedback 


To  the  Editor: 


First  I  wish  to  offer  my  compliments 
on  a  fine  article  by  Ken  Maymon  in 
the  October  Journal.  Perhaps  recogniz- 
ing the  failure  of  the  federal  govern- 
ment to  cope  with  the  pollution  prob- 
lem is  the  first  step  toward  developing 
more  effective  programs. 

The  conclusions,  though,  are  very 
disturbing.  Mr.  Maymon  concludes 
that  we  need  reorganization  of  federal 
bureaucracy  and  a  "new  way  of  think- 
ing" for  our  politicians.  Our  country 
has,  however,  needed  these  changes  for 
many  years,  and  it  appears  that  noth- 
ing short  of  widespread  social  revolu- 
tion will  ever  change  the  way  politi- 
cians think. 

As  individual  engineers  and  scien- 
tists we  have  at  our  command  the 
most  powerful  of  all  weapons  against 
pollution  —  our  professional  integrity. 
It  is  machines  that  pollute;  engineers 
and  scientists  design  machines,  and 
politicians  and  businessmen  tell  engi- 
neers and  scientists  what  to  do.  Since 
businessmen  and  politicians  are  moti- 
vated primarily  by  money  and  the 
power  to  control  people,  and  since 
machines  have  no  morals,  it  seems  that 
the  only  way  to  break  this  chain  is  for 
the  engineers  and  scientists  to  exercise 
their  moral  judgment  and  refuse  to 
work  on  projects  which  are  detri- 
mental to  our  environment. 

The  A.M.A.  with  its  congressional 
lobbying  power  exercises  a  great  deal 
of  control  over  drug  legislation  and 
other  medical  matters.  But  where  are 
the  engineering  and  scientific  societies, 
the  alumni  associations,  and  the  tech- 
nical colleges  when  environmentally 
destructive  legislation  is  being  de- 
bated? While  our  politicians  are  pass- 
ing legislation  to  pay  scientists  and 
engineers  to  destroy  the  environment, 
our  professional  societies  seem  in- 
terested only  in  how  it  will  affect  the 
unemployment  rate. 


In  the  first  part  of  the  twentieth 
century,  WPI  alumni  were  leaders  in 
developing  the  technology  that  gave  us 
the  highest  standard  of  living  in  the 
world.  I  hope  that  the  last  part  of  the 
century  shows  WPI  graduates  as  the 
leaders  in  the  fight  to  save  our  environ- 
ment so  that  this  world  can  be  a  safe 
and  healthy  place  in  which  to  live. 

Peace. 

Steven  A.  Clarke,  '71 
Amhersc,  Massachusetts 


Sfoneblost 


Stoneblast  is  not  just  another  abrasive. 
It's  a  real  bargain  blast.  And  savings 
are  by  design,  because  performance, 
not  price,  is  the  real  buy  in  abrasives 
for  stone  lettering  and  design  work. 
It's  the  better  letterer. 

Dollar  for  dollar,  and  pound  for 
pound,  Norton  Stoneblast ,M  outper- 
forms anything  else  on  the  market.  In 
actual  field  use,  it  not  only  cut  faster 
than  standard  aluminum  oxide,  but 
lasted  three  times  longer,  and  pro- 
duced twice  as  many  monuments. 

Stoneblast  is  specially  blended  to 


make  it  faster,  longer-lived,  and  cleaner 
—  with  all  free  silica  eliminated  for 
operator  safety.  It  gives  good  contrast, 
so  there's  seldom  need  for  extra 
blasting  or  coloring.  Quality  control  is 
automatic.  And  its  one,  predictable,, 
tailor-made  grade  is  packaged  in  50-lb. 
cartons  for  easy  handling. 
Tip:  Use  Stoneblast  with  the  new  shorter, 


lighter,more  efficient  Norton  Norbide™ 
Monumental  Venturi  nozzle.  Although 
priced  slightly  higher  than  straight  bore 
Norbide  nozzles,  it  cuts  up  to  50% 
faster! 

Ask  your  nearby  Norton  Autho- 
rized Distributor  for  Form  1 48-2  or 
write  Norton  Company,  Abrasive 
Materials  Division,  New  Bond  Street, 
Worcester,  Mass.  0 1 606. 


ABRASIVE  MATERIALS 


i  iii  pi  n 

journal 


01  n 


4  in 

sd 

u  0 


Wyman-Gordon  is  the  country's  out- 
standing producer  of  forged  compo- 
nents for  America's  key  industries. 
Wyman-Gordon  has  supplied  forgings 
for  virtually  every  aircraft  in  the  skies 
today,  as  well  as  for  the  Saturn  and 
other  space  boosters.  Equally  important 
is  its  production  of  vital  components 
for  nuclear  and  turbine  power  plants, 
sea  and  undersea  vessels,  trucks,  trac- 
tors and  construction  equipment. 

Research  is  a  hallmark  of  Wyman- 
Gordon;  its  research  and  development 
teams  have  long  been  recognized  as  in- 
dustry leadersin  the  development  of  new 
techniques  for  advanced  materials  such 
as  titanium  and  other  space-age  alloys. 


Forging  form  and  function 
into  metal  


WYMAN  -  GORDON 


WORCESTER 

NORTH  GRAFTON      MILLBURY 

Midwest  Division:  Harvey.  Illinois 

Subsidiaries 

REISNER  METALS,  INC. 

South  Gate.  California 

ROLLMET.INC. 

Santa  Ana,  California 

CAST  TECHNOLOGY,  INC. 

Schenectady.  N.Y. 

WYMAN-GORDON  INDIA,  LTD. 

Bombay.  India 

Sales  Offices  Worldwide 


journal 


Vol.  75,  no.  3 
February,  1  972 


In  This  Issue 


The  Prospects  for  Our  Environment  page  three 

Russell    Train,   Chairman   of   the  President's   Council   on    Environmental    Quality,   takes   a 
probing  look  at  the  role  of  the  private  citizen  in  the  fight  to  save  our  environment. 


WPI :  A  Center  for  Environmental  Studies  page  nine 

Dr.  Edward  N.  Clarke,  WPI  Director  of  Research,  discusses  the  wide  range  of  environment- 
related  programs  at  WPI. 


H.  Russell  Kay 

Editor 

Ruth  A.  Trask 

Alumni  Information  Editor 

Publications  Committee 

Walter  B.  Dennen,  Jr.,  '51,  Chairman 

Robert  C.  Gosling,  '68 

Enfried  T.  Larson,  '22 

Rev.  Edward  I.  Swanson,  '45 

Richard  DeChard,  '56 

Published  for  the  Alumni  Association 
by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 

Copyright  ©1972  by 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 
All  rights  reserved. 


WPI  Alumni  Association   Officers 

President: 

I.  J.  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44 

Vice  Presidents: 

B.  E.  Hosmer,  '61 
W.J.  Bank, '46 

Secretary-  Treasurer: 
S.  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President: 
R.  E.  Higgs,  '40 

Executive  Committee, 
Members-at-Large: 

C.  C.  Bonin,  '38;  F.  S.  Harvey,  '37; 
C.  W.  Backstrom,  '30;  L  Polizzotto,  '70 

Fund  Board: 

G.  F.  Crowther,  '37;  A.  Kalenian,  '33; 
R.  F.  Burke,  Jr.,  '38;  L.  A.  Penoncello, 
'66;  W.  J.  Charow,  '49;  H.  I.  Nelson,  '54 


Whither  the  Automobile?  page  twelve 

A  brief  but  incisive  rundown  by  ME  Prof.  Roger  R.  Borden  of  the  problems  caused  by  the 
automobile  —  environmental,  sociological,  and  technical  —  with  a  summary  of  emission 
requirements  and  results. 


Art  Smith,  Man  At  the  Top page  twenty-seven 

A  profile  of  the  new  President  of  United  Aircraft,  WPI  '33. 

Alumni  Fund  Progress  Report        page  twenty-nine 

DEPARTMENTS 

Completed  Careers  23 

Your  Class  And  Others  25 


The  WPI  Journal  is  published  five  times  a  year 
in  October,  December,  February,  April,  August. 
Entered  as  second  class  matter  July  26,  1918. 
at  the  Post  Office,  Worcester,  Massachusetts, 
under  the  act  of  March  3,  1879.  Subscription 
two  dollars  per  year.  Postmaster:  Please  send 
form  3579  to  Alumni  Association,  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester,  Mass.  01609. 


A  Note  on  the  Cover:  The  cover  for  this  issue  has 
been  printed  on  100%  recycled  paper.  It  costs 
approximately  44%  more  than  our  usual  paper, 
which  is  itself  a  fine  and  expensive  paper. 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


% 


?*F:* 


■  t'-r'A 


The  Prospects 

for  our  Environment 


by  Russell  E.  Train 

Chairman,  Council  on  Environmental  Quality 


J.HE  CAUSE  of  the  environment  is  one  which  the  citizens 
have  made.  No  political  leader,  no  government  official  can 
take  sole  credit  for  putting  the  environment  on  the  national 
agenda.  Citizens  identified  problems,  organized  to  influence 
governmental  actions,  made  themselves  heard  at  public 
hearings,  brought  actions  before  administrative  agencies  in 
the  courts,  and  helped  the  press  to  interpret  their  concerns. 
They  did  all  this  in  the  face  of  the  massive  lethargy  of 
business-as-usual  bureaucracy.  Some  citizen  leaders  were 
ridiculed  for  their  efforts,  mocked  as  the  "birds  and 
bunnies  people,"  the  butterfly  chasers,  the  old  ladies  in 
tennis  shoes.  In  many  subtle  and  not  so  subtle  ways  they 
were  made  to  feel  that  they  were  not  in  the  American 
mainstream  of  bread  and  butter  progress,  that  theirs  was 
the  voice  of  reaction,  that  they  were  callous  to  the  people's 
need  for  jobs,  that  they  were  soft. 

The  first  hurdle  citizens  had  to  overcome  was  organiza- 
tion. Contrast  the  situation  just  ten  years  ago  when  three  or 
four  national  environmental  organizations  divided  up  a 
faithful  but  small  constituency  of  members,  with  the 
situation  today  which  sees  innumerable  national,  State  and 

Russell  E.  Train  is  a  graduate  of  Princeton  with  a  law  degree 
from  Columbia.  In  1970  WPI  awarded  him  an  honorary 
Doctor  of  Engineering  degree  in  recognition  of  his  concern 
for  the  environment  and  his  leadership  in  making  the 
technical  man  compatible  with  the  natural  world.  In  1969 
President  Nixon  appointed  him  Under  Secretary  of  the 
Interior.  He  was  appointed  to  his  present  position  in  1970. 
Russell  Train  is  our  country's  environmental  ombudsman. 


local  groups  with  large  and  growing  memberships  organized 
with  general,  specific  and  ad  hoc  objectives  of  every  kind. 

The  second  hurdle  citizens  had  to  overcome  was  the 
refusal  of  people  to  take  them  seriously.  This  refusal 
manifested  itself  in  the  ridicule  of  environmental  leaders, 
the  inability  to  attract  press  attention.  Most  significantly, 
there  was  a  barrier  between  the  concerned  citizen  and  the 
processes  of  law.  Although  the  contractor  hired  to  bulldoze 
a  woodland  or  level  a  hillside  could  go  to  court  to  keep 
people  from  standing  in  his  way  or  delaying  his  work,  the 
lifelong  resident  distressed  by  the  impending  destruction  of 
a  valued  part  of  his  community  could  not  even  be  heard  in 
a  court  of  law  because  of  constricted  legal  concepts  known 
as  "standing"  or  "government  immunity."  The  law,  truly 
reflecting  the  older  values  of  the  society  at  large,  put 
greater  stock  by  the  immediate  economics  of  a  situation 
than  it  did  by  the  longer-term  aesthetic  and  cultural 
implications.  Everywhere  it  seemed  as  though  the  part  was 
afforded  greater  rights  than  the  whole,  and  while  there  was 
no  lack  of  advocates  for  specific  dams,  airports,  highways 
and  power  plants,  the  fellow  who  dared  to  speak  out  for 
the  environment  could  scarcely  be  heard  above  the  roar  of 
the  "engine  of  progress." 

By  and  large  the  citizens  have  won  their  battle  to  be 
taken  seriously,  and  few  courts  turn  them  away  today.  The 
number  of  speeches  and  articles  exhorting  environ- 
mentalists to  be  responsible,  and  claiming  environmental 
requirements  are  delaying  needed  projects  and  putting 
people  out  of  jobs,  suggests  that  citizen  environmentalists 
are  now  being  taken  very  seriously  indeed. 


The  measure  of  citizens' 
strength  today  is  the 
government's  respect  for 
them. 

Finally,  citizens  have  had  to  learn  how  things  really 
work,  how  divergent  views  are  heard  and  reconciled  in 
administrative  tribunals  and  courts  and  in  the  political 
forum.  Shut  out  for  so  long,  it  has  been  difficult  to  adjust 
to  a  role  where  citizen  opinions  are  solicited  and  con- 
sidered, where  recommendations  are  invited.  But  this 
obstacle  has  also  been  largely  overcome,  and  there  is  less 
shrillness  among  environmentalists  today,  and  more  sen- 
sitivity to  the  complexity  of  government,  the  economy,  and 
the  needs  of  the  environment. 

The  measure  of  citizens'  strength  today  is  the  govern- 
ment's respect  for  them.  It  is  simply  inconceivable  that  any 
agency  of  government  or  elected  official  could  turn  back 
the  clock  and  ignore  the  environmental  concerns  of  citizens 
for  very  long  —  the  courts,  the  press,  and  the  people  simply 
would  not  allow  it. 

Now  that  some  of  the  great  battles  have  been  won  by 
citizens,  the  time  has  come  to  ask  "What  does  it  all  mean?" 
and  "Where  do  we  go  from  here?"  Let  me  offer  some 
tentative  answers. 

It  is  almost  a  third  of  a  century  since  the  beginning  of 
World  War  II,  and  over  40  years  since  the  start  of  the 
Depression.  Many,  if  not  most,  of  those  years  were 
characterized  by  deep  insecurity.  The  insecurities  of  the 
post-War  period  were  of  both  foreign  and  domestic  origin, 
for  the  instability  of  the  world  outside  was  mirrored  by 
social  divisions  here  at  home.  Since  then  much  has  changed, 
and  the  themes  that  people  once  marched  to  no  longer  stir 
them.  Where  once  we  were  confident,  aggressive,  unified 
and  outward  bound,  now  we  can  only  look  back  and 
wonder  at  those  days.  We  have  passed  through  several 
revolutions  —  of  rising  expectations,  civil  rights,  consumer 
rights  —  and  we  have  witnessed  the  coming  of  the  new 
politics,  the  new  technology,  the  new  consciousness,  the 
new  everything. 

Now  we  are  in  the  midst  of  yet  another  revolution,  a 
turning  inward.  How  much  the  war  has  been  the  cause,  or 
whether  we  are  just  entering  another  cycle  of  history  is 
debatable.  We  are,  however,  internalizing  our  ambitions, 
and  questioning  our  purposes.  One  can  measure  our  current 
mood  in  any  number  of  ways,  and  the  conclusion  is 
unmistakable.  We  are  showing  by  our  visits  to  parks  and 
museums,  our  purchases  of  books  and  sporting  goods,  our 
responses  to  polls  and  elections  that  we  arc  more  and  more 
concerned  with  personal  fulfillment,  with  productive  uses 
of  leisure,  with  the  life  of  the  mind  and  spirit  and  with  the 
outdoors. 


At  a  time  in  our  national  life  when  we  are  questioning 
traditional  goals  and  redefining  our  purposes,  we  have  come 
to  a  new  concern  with  the  quality  of  life.  I  do  not  believe 
that  this  concern  is  a  temporary  development.  In  the  words 
of  Jean  Revel: 

There  is  a  good  deal  more  to  the  ecological  movement  than  the 
effect  of  a  practical  determinism.  After  all,  for  thousands  of  years 
mankind  has  lived  (and  for  the  most  part  still  lives)  by  drinking 
contaminated  water,  and  he  has  survived  the  resulting  dysentery  and 
typhoid  epidemics.  Suffering  apparendy  is  not  enough  to  move  one 
to  fight  for  a  better  environment.  Malaria  has  never  caused  a 
revolution.  In  order  to  fight,  one  must  be  able  to  see  a  clear 
relationship  among  nature,  technology,  economic  power,  and 
political  power. 

One  must  also  be  able  to  rise  to  the  belief  that  nature  belongs  to 
every  man,  and  to  the  realization  that  an  oil  slick  on  the  ocean 
affects  one's  own  good  or  better,  one's  own  happiness.  The 
development  of  such  a  belief  therefore  implies  the  existence  of  a 
political  awareness  that  calls  for  the  reshaping  of  intra-social 
relations,  for  co-proprietorship,  for  co-dependence,  for  co- 
responsibility. 


We  are  in  the  midst  of  a 
fundamental  reordering 
of  our  values,  and  the 
citizens  who  have  worked 
to  stimulate  the  debate 
are  now  being  invited  to 
contribute  to  it.  They 
must  display  a  maturity, 
a  responsibility,  and  a 
staying  power  in  the  face 
of  the  inevitable  testing 
of  the  depth  of  the 
nation's  new 
commitment  by  those 
whose  business  is 
pollution  or  whose  values 
are  early  American. 


The  public  will  ultimately  pay  these  costs,  and  the 
public  is  entitled  to  know  the  relationship  of  the 
costs  it  is  paying  to  the  benefits  it  will  receive. 


There  are  two  arguments  that  will  increasingly  be  made 
in  one  form  or  another  against  moves  to  improve  the 
environment.  One  I  shall  call  the  argument  from  economics 
and  the  other  I  shall  call  the  argument  from  equity.  It  is 
essential  that  citizens  concerned  about  improving  the 
environment  leam  to  deal  with  these  arguments,  and  master 
the  complex  language  in  which  they  are  presented  and 
considered. 

There  is  no  question  of  the  continuing  need  to  do  a 
careful  and  thorough  job  of  economic  analysis  of  environ- 
mental problems  and  programs.  This  is  particularly  true  as 
environmental  standards  rise.  Attaining  low  levels  of  con- 
trol is  relatively  inexpensive  but  the  cost  rises  rapidly  as 
higher  levels  of  abatement  are  attained.  For  example,  in  one 
particular  industry  it  costs  less  than  $1  a  pound  to  reduce 
BOD  —  the  measure  of  oxygen  required  to  decompose 
organic  wastes  —  by  30  percent.  But  to  reduce  it  by  over  65 
percent  can  cost  over  $20  for  each  pound,  and  to  reduce  it 
beyond  the  95  percent  level  it  costs  over  $60  per  pound. 
Marginal  costs  of  controlling  such  air  pollutants  as  sulfur 
oxides  and  particulates  also  escalate  rapidly  at  high  levels  of 
control.  It  is  important  for  many  reasons  that  we  have  a 
clear  understanding  of  these  costs  before  making  far-reach- 
ing decisions.  The  public  will  ultimately  pay  these  costs, 
and  the  public  is  entitled  to  know  the  relationship  of  the 
costs  it  is  paying  to  the  benefits  it  will  receive.  Second, 
accurate  information  on  costs  is  important  because  there 
may  be  more  economical  and  more  efficient  ways  of 
achieving  the  same  environmental  objective.  Indeed,  there 
may  even  be  other  environmental  objectives  which  should 
receive  a  higher  priority.  Finally,  the  nation's  resources  are 
finite,    and    an    intelligent    allocation   of  those   resources 


among  an  almost  infinite  set  of  desirable  goals  demands 
careful  cost  analysis.  This  is  not  to  say  that  cost  must  be 
the  determining  factor  in  setting  environmental  standards. 
But  it  is  a  factor  that  must  receive  careful  analysis  if 
environmental  improvement  is  going  to  continue  to  have 
the  broad  support  of  the  American  public  which  I  believe 
essential. 

It  is  perfectly  fair  to  ask  an  environmentalist  to  deal 
directly  with  these  questions,  and  to  indicate  what  the 
trade-offs  will  be  for  a  quality  environment.  But  it  is  also 
fair  for  the  environmentalist  to  insist  on  a  rigorous 
acknowledgment  that  a  poor  environment  is,  in  the  crudest 
terms,  costing  us  money.  Part  of  what  we  give  up  by 
improving  the  environment  is  a  baggage  of  unnecessary 
expenses  to  which  dollar  values  can  be  broadly  assigned. 
Let  me  briefly  outline  some  of  these  costs  we  now  bear  for 
environmental  problems. 

To  be  able  to  deal  comprehensively  with  the  question 
we  really  need  a  better  environmental  balance  sheet  than 
we  now  have.  But  we  already  know  that  air  pollution,  for 
example,  is  costing  us  money.  There  is  a  growing  body  of 
evidence  which  indicates  that  the  long-term  effects  of 
exposure  to  low  concentrations  of  pollutants  can  adversely 
affect  health  and  result  in  chronic  diseases  and  premature 
death.  Major  illnesses  linked  to  air  pollution  include 
emphysema,  bronchitis,  asthma,  lung  cancer,  and  even  the 
common  cold.  One  evaluation  of  epidemiological  studies 
suggested  that  a  50  percent  reduction  in  air  pollution  would 
eliminate  damages  to  health  by  more  than  $2  billion  in  a 
single  year.  The  Environmental  Protection  Agency  has 
estimated  the  total  economic  costs  of  mortality  and 
morbidity  due  to  air  pollution  is  around  $6  billion 
annually. 


One  evaluation  suggested  that  a  50  percent  reduction 
in  air  pollution  would  eliminate  damages  to  health  by 
more  than  $2  billion  in  a  single  year.  .  .  .  The  total 
estimate  in  1968  of  the  direct  costs  of  air  pollution  in 
the  United  States  alone  —  not  taking  into  account 
discomfort,  anxiety,  or  aesthetic  degradation  —  was 
put  at  $16  billion  annually. 


Air  pollution  also  affects  property  values.  Studies  of  the 
willingness  of  people  to  pay  more  for  residences  in  areas 
having  cleaner  air  are  persuasive.  Data  showing  that  income 
levels  correlate  inversely  with  air  pollution  levels  in  large 
cities  —  the  poorer  you  are  the  more  you  are  affected  by  air 
pollution  —  suggest  that  heavy  air  pollution  may  result  in 
lowered  property  values,  and  lower  housing  costs.  One 
study  of  property  values,  based  on  data  from  three  cities, 
shows  that  increases  of  10  percent  in  air  pollution  levels  can 
result  in  decreases  of  $500  per  residential  property  tract. 

The  effect  of  air  pollution  on  vegetation  and  materials 
was  estimated  at  just  under  $5  billion  in  1968.  The  total 
estimate  in  1968  of  the  direct  costs  of  air  pollution  in  the 
United  States  alone  —  not  taking  into  account  discomfort, 
anxiety  or  aesthetic  degradation  —  was  put  at  $16  billion 
annually.  This  total  is  far  in  excess  of  abatement  costs. 

Economists  have  also  attempted  to  put  dollar  costs  on 
water    pollution,    taking    into    account    reduced    fishery 


if  such  an  engine  were  not  required  by  law;  that  85  percent 
would  be  willing  to  purchase  only  returnable  bottles  and 
pay  a  five  cent  per  bottle  deposit. 

In  a  broader  sense,  however,  while  the  balance  sheet 
approach  to  environmental  gains  and  losses  may  be  sug- 
gestive, I  think  it  is  inadequate.  Environmentalists  were 
among  the  first  early  to  sense  the  hidden  costs  of 
technology,  to  see  that  better  automobiles  and  highways 
and  dams  and  power  facilities  do  not  necessarily  add  up  to 
a  better  life  —  that  the  sum  of  the  parts  was  worth  less  than 
the  individual  values  of  each  one  of  them  would  suggest. 
Economics  has  not  yet  become  subtle  and  refined  enough 
to  allow  us  to  account  adequately  for  this  phenomenon, 
but  we  know  it  is  true.  We  know  that  the  plight  of  the 
modern  middle-class  American  compares  to  the  dilemma  of 
the  fellow  who  always  gets  what  he  wants  —  for  a  while  he 
goes  on  asking  for  more  —  more  appliances,  more  power, 
more  comfort  —  until  some  dark  night  alone  with  himself 


More.  More  power.  More  comfort.  Until  some  dark 
night,  alone  with  himself  man  is  moved  to  ask  Why? 
What  is  it  all  worth  if  the  animals  have  been 
decimated,  the  forests  reduced,  the  air  befouled,  and 
the  broad  oceans  themselves  debased? 


harvests,  diminished  recreation  opportunities  and  the  like, 
but  my  point  is  that  those  concerned  about  what  environ- 
mental reforms  are  costing  us  should  look  beyond  the  jobs 
provided  by  the  marginal  industry  which  is  allegedly 
squeezed  out  by  strict  environmental  standards  to  the 
broader  economic  interests  of  the  communities  who  share 
their  air  and  water  with  those  enterprises.  I  am  personally 
confident  that  we  would  find  a  net  economic  gain-,  indeed, 
that  we  would  also  find  that  many  more  will  gain  than  will 
lose  as  a  result  of  pollution  abatement. 

It  is  important  that  people  understand  that  protecting 
the  environment  is  going  to  entail  costs  and  that  it  is  they 
who  will  pay  those  costs  —  not  someone  else.  At  the  same 
time,  I  think  it  equally  important  that  the  public  not  be 
scared  away  by  inflated  descriptions  of  the  sacrifices 
involved.  It  has  been  my  strong  impression  that  those  who 
talk  the  loudest  about  the  heavy  costs  the  public  must  bear 
for  environmental  quality  are  often  those  who  are  providing 
the  public  with  products  most  closely  associated  with 
environmental  problems.  Could  it  be  that  they  arc  trying  to 
discourage  the  public  from  exercising  consumer  preferences 
that  might  adversely  affect  their  own  market?  A  Harris  poll 
reveals  that  the  people  of  New  York  are  willing  to  pay  to 
improve  the  environment,  that  60  percent  would  pay  an 
additional  $200  for  a  car  with  a  pollution-free  engine  even 


he  is  moved  to  ask  Why?  What  it  is  all  worth  if  the  animals 
have  been  decimated,  the  forests  reduced,  the  air  befouled, 
and  the  broad  oceans  themselves  debased? 

Intuitively,  we  have  always  understood  this  to  a  degree. 
While  we  have  historically  worked  hard  to  increase  goods 
and  services,  we  have  at  the  same  time  chosen  to  take  a 
portion  of  the  rewards  of  economic  productivity  in  the 
form  of  reductions  in  the  work  week.  In  the  span  of  several 
decades,  the  average  U.S.  work  week  has  declined  from  60 
hours  with  virtually  no  vacations  to  less  than  40  hours.  No 
one  has  been  moved  to  complain  about  what  we  have  given 
up  since  1900  in  productivity  foregone  because  they  agree 
so  readily  about  the  value  of  what  we  have  gained  —  20  or 
so  hours  more  of  leisure. 

The  movement  to  a  shorter  work  week  challenged  our 
economy  to  increase  hourly  productivity,  to  mechanize  and 
become  more  capital  intensive.  The  economic  challenges 
posed  by  environmental  quality  objectives  are  similar  in 
nature  but  far  less  in  scale  than  such  earlier  demands  as 
shorter  working  hours,  paid  vacations,  pensions  and  health 
care.  Yet  it  is  true  [hat  environmental  reforms  pose 
challenges  to  technology.  For  example,  we  have  designed 
our  proposed  tax  on  sulfur  emissions  so  that  the  tax  will 
become  more  burdensome  with  time,  rewarding  enterprises 
which  develop  new  techniques  for  eliminating  sulfur,  and 
penalizing  those  which  resist  change. 

THE  WPI  JOURNA 


The  reason  perhaps  why  we  are  slower  to  perceive  that 
our  continued  progress  as  a  people  now  demands  that  we 
improve  environmental  quality  just  as  a  quarter  century  ago 
social  justice  demanded  a  better  deal  for  the  working  man, 
is  that  the  benefits  we  are  now  striving  for  are  public,  not 
private.  Environmental  quality  generally  has  no  interest 
group,  no  lobby  to  whom  the  cause  means  dollars  and 
cents,  days  off,  or  sick  pay.  Americans  have  been  slow  to 

What  about  the  poor  — 
what's  in  it  for  them? 
What  about  social  justice 
and  equal  opportunity? 

differentiate  between  individual  goods  and  communal 
goods.  Many  of  this  country's  problems  have  been  aggra- 
vated by  our  historical  misunderstanding  of  the  communal 
nature  of  air  and  water.  Now  that  there  is  some  consensus 
in  those  areas,  the  task  of  the  environmentalist  is  to 
persuade  Americans  of  the  communal  nature  of  much 
private  land  use,  of  distinguished  historic  buildings  and 
architectural  masterpieces  and  valuable  ecosystems. 

Our  system  has  always  functioned  well  where  adversary 
interests  have  had  specific  objectives  and  a  strong  con- 
stituency. Where  the  cause  is  the  public  estate,  and  we  all 
stand  to  gain,  some  of  our  institutions  do  less  well.  But  we 
are  adapting  them.  Reduction  of  bond  requirements  and 
abandonment  of  the  rule  that  litigants  must  have  a  direct 
economic  stake  to  contest  public  agency  actions  are 
instances  where  the  courts  have  made  room  for  what 
Edward  Banfield  has  called  "the  public  regarding  citizen." 
The  citizen  is  more  and  more  being  invited  to  scrutinize  the 
quality  of  service  he  is  receiving  from  agencies  of  govern- 
ment and  to  challenge  it  directly,  by  commenting  on  its 
proposals  through  its  public  participatory  processes,  or  by 
challenging  it  directly  in  the  courts  when  he  finds  it 
wanting. 

All  very  well,  some  may  say,  but  the  public  regarding 
citizens  who  stand  to  gain  from  environmental  gains  are  the 
affluent  middle  classes.  What  about  the  poor  —  what's  in  it 
for  them?  What  about  social  justice  and  equal  opportunity? 
We  have  heard  talk  recently  of  "environmental  escapism," 
and  suggestions  that  as  a  people  we  are  abandoning  social 
objectives  and  priorities  —  a  decent  home  for  every 
American  family,  the  elimination  of  poverty  —  in  the  name 
of  less  exacting  goals  such  as  cleaner  air  and  water  and  more 
parks.  This  I  refer  to  as  the  argument  from  equity,  and 
since  it  questions  the  very  legitimacy  of  environmental 
reforms  it  is  essential  that  environmentalists  confront  and 
deal  with  it. 

I  believe  that  the  view  that  we  are  now  escaping  into  a 
world  of  middle  class  concerns  which  benefit  only  the 
affluent  makes  three  false  assumptions: 

HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


1.  That  alleged  neglect  of  social  priorities  is  in  some 
way  a  consequence  of  increased  support  for  en- 
vironmental programs.  We  are  simply  not  playing  a 
zero  sum  game  where  my  gain  is  your  loss  or  vice 
versa.  Economically  and  politically,  it  is  simplistic 
to  argue  that  better  air  for  all  of  us  has  meant  less 
money  for  the  poor. 

2.  That  although  the  poor  may  not  define  environ- 
mental improvements  as  their  primary  objectives, 
they  do  not  stand  to  gain  by  them.  On  the  contrary, 
we  have  data  that  indicate  that  the  poor  suffer  most 
from  air  pollution,  poor  waste  management,  and 
inadequate  recreational  opportunities.  For  example, 
in  our  annual  report  on  the  quality  of  the  nation's 
environment  last  year  we  cited  data  from  Chicago 
showing  that  the  lowest  income  neighborhoods  are 
in  the  areas  of  highest  air  pollution  concentrations. 
Studies  in  several  other  cities  show  a  similar  close 
correlation  between  low  income  and  high  air  pollu- 
tion levels. 

3.  Third,  I  believe  it  is  specious  and  perhaps  a  trifle 
guilt-ridden  to  argue  that  the  interests  of  the  great 
majority  of  Americans  who  are  showing  in  polls  and 
in  other  ways  that  they  care  very  deeply  about  the 
quality  of  their  natural  surroundings  are  to  some 
extent  illegitimate.  Galbraith  could  rationally  argue 
in  the  Affluent  Society  that  the  amount  of  money 
Americans  lavish  on  chromium  auto  fixtures  and 
cosmetics  was  a  misallocation  of  resources  in  view 
of  the  needs  of  the  public  estate.  But  the  environ- 
mental movement  is  precisely  directed  at  benefiting 
the  society  at  large. 

Citizens  organized  in  the  public  interest  have  been  so 
successful  that  they  now  are  virtually  a  fourth  branch  of 
government  when  they  care  about  an  issue.  If  this  new 
status  calls  for  a  new  sophistication  and  maturity  in  the 
face  of  subtle  and  sometimes  persuasive  skepticism,  it  also 
calls  for  a  spirit  of  conciliation  and  cooperation  with  others 
in  the  society  who  see  some  things  differently.  And  it  calls 
for  a  realistic  appraisal  of  what  is  involved. 

It  is  important  for  us  to  understand  that  many  of  the 
problems  we  have  —  poverty,  pollution,  inflation,  the  urban 
crisis  -  we  share  with  all  the  world.  Often  because  we  face 
them  first,  our  solutions  and  our  performance  become  the 
measure,  mould  the  expectations,  of  what  is  possible.  As 
Revel  has  pointed  out  the  fundamental  changes  that  are 
occurring  in  our  society  amount  to  "the  first  revolution  in 
history  in  which  disagreement  on  values  and  goals  is  more 
pronounced  than  disagreement  on  the  means  of  existence." 

While  so  much  proceeds  at  geometric  rates  of  increase 
these  days,  time  is  still  linear,  and  people  are  still  people. 
Although  our  mood  may  have  changed  and  our  needs  have 
become  more  subtle,  our  older  institutions  are  moving 
along  with  years  of  momemtum  behind  them.  Institutions 
are  less  flexible  than  people,  their  turning  arcs  are  wider, 
and  it  is  more  difficult  to  move  them  through  periods  of 
maximum  transition.   The  regular  scrutiny  by  citizens  of 


It  is  important  for  us  to  understand  that  many  of  the 
problems  we  have  —  poverty,  pollution,  inflation,  the 
urban  crisis  —  we  share  with  all  the  world.  Often 
because  we  face  them  first,  our  solutions  and  our 
performance  become  the  measure,  mould  the 
expectations,  of  what  is  possible. 


governmental  agencies  is  serving  to  energize  the  agencies 
themselves,  and  to  discourage  their  becoming  overly  preoc- 
cupied with  themselves  and  the  world  of  government.  In 
the  midst  of  uncertainties  over  which  areas  to  emphasize  or 
which  priorities  to  favor  in  an  era  of  information  overload, 
strong  citizen  concerns  have  the  effect  of  focusing  attention 
and  clarifying  alternative  options. 

It  is  the  task  of  the  national  administration  to  chart  an 
orderly  course  through  a  disorderly  time,  to  accommodate 
the  need  for  institutional  change  as  quickly  as  possible 
without  wrecking  what  is  essential  and  useful  in  our 
processes  of  government.  We  in  this  administration  are  fully 
committed  to  the  revolution  in  values  now  underway,  and 
to  the  reappraisal  of  the  goals  of  technology  and  its 
consequences.  At  a  time  when  there  is  so  much  that  divides 
people,  the  cause  of  the  environment  is  vibrant,  youthful 
and  full  of  hope  for  young  and  old,  rich  and  poor. 

Moving  forward  together  in  this  very  complex  time  will 
require  not  only  sophistication  but  also  conciliation, 
moderation,  and  respect  for  each  other's  deeply  felt  wishes 
and  desires.  A  posture  of  disciplined  application  to  the 
business  at  hand  is  difficult  to  maintain  in  an  atmosphere 
charged  with  passion,  but  it  is  the  only  approach  capable  in 
the  long  run  of  achieving  the  broad  goals  and  the  better 
quality  of  life  we  seek. 

Last  February,  when  President  Nixon  sent  to  the 
Congress  his  Environmental  Message  proposing  a  compre- 
hensive and  wide-ranging  set  of  environmental  initiatives,  he 
declared: 

".  .  .  Far  beyond  any  legislative  or  administrative  programs  that  may 
be  suggested,  the  direet  involvement  of  our  citizens  will  be  the 
critical  test  of  whether  we  can  indeed  have  the  kind  of  environment 
we  want  for  ourselves  and  for  our  children." 

There  is  no  question  in  my  mind  but  that  an  informed, 
concerned,  and  responsible  citizenry  is  the  crucial  factor 
upon  which  ultimately  ;ill  environmental  progress  must 
depend. 


THE  WPI  JOURN, 


WPI: 

A  Center  for 
Environmental  Studies 


by  Dr.  Edward  l\l.  Clarke 
Director  of  Research 


&®®&&%&%9%%9&%&%&&&%%%&^%*&& 


UNTIL  RECENTLY  ecology  was  a  professional  word  used 
and  understood  only  by  biologists.  Environment  was  a 
word  connected  with  the  study  of  human  behavior  to 
describe  the  influences  which,  along  with  heredity,  make 
people  behave  as  they  do. 

Today,  these  terms  are  household  words  even  though 
the  full  comprehension  of  their  meaning  is  often  little 
understood. 

Is  the  current  concern  for  our  environment  a  fad  which 
will  be  replaced  next  year  by  something  else?  Or  is  there  a 
real  problem  which  has  finally  been  recognized  by  the 
masses  to  the  extent  that  they  are  now  willing  to  support 
the  programs  necessary  to  improve  the  environment  in 
which  we  live?  The  broad-scale  involvement  of  WPI  faculty 
and  students  in  environmental  studies  and  projects  de- 
scribed in  this  issue  of  the  WPI  Journal  provides  evidence 
that  these  problems  are  both  real  and  critical. 

First  of  all,  what  do  we  mean  by  the  environment? 
Prof.  B.  Allen  Benjamin  of  civil  engineering  answers  that. 
"The  term  'environment'  means  different  things  to  differ- 
ent people,  even  here  on  campus.  Some  equate  it  with 
'pollution'  (which  is,  rather,  an  environmental  problem), 
others  with  'air  and  water  resources'  in  general;  still  others 
with  all  natural  resources,  of  which  land  (with  what  is 
under  and  on  it)  is  a  major  component.  But  in  the  broadest 
view,  and  the  one  I  favor,  is  that  the  'environment'  includes 
the  physical  works  of  man  as  well  as  the  elements  of  nature. 
Stated  another  way,  our  environment  is  composed  of 
interdependent  systems,  both  natural  and  man-made.  The 
abuse  of  one  system  jeopardizes  the  quality  of  the  others 
and  ultimately  the  survival  of  all." 

It  is  easy  for  the  public  to  point  a  finger  at  technology, 
saying  "you  are  to  blame  for  the  mess  in  the  environment." 
While  there  is  an  element  of  truth  in  this  accusation,  it  is  no 
more  applicable  to  technology  than  to  every  other  segment 
of   society.   All   of  us   businessmen,   politicians,   farmers, 


educators,  and  the  rest  of  the  citizenry  have  been  looking  at 
the  world  around  us  through  blinders  which  prevented  us 
from  seeing  beyond  our  own  special  interests. 

The  municipalities  which  dumped  raw  sewage  into 
rivers  without  passing  it  through  treatment  plants  should 
not  blame  technology  when  new  government  regulations 
demanded  treatment  to  improve  water  quality  for  those 
living  downstream.  Although  technology  was  available  to 
correct  the  problems  years  ago,  elected  officials  with  few 
exceptions  could  see  no  advantage  to  their  own  community 
in  undertaking  such  an  expensive  public  works  project. 
Even  if  they  had,  they  would  have  been  faced  with  the 
difficult  job  of  convincing  the  citizens  to  increase  their 
taxes  to  pay  for  the  project. 

The  businessman  who  found  it  economically  desirable 
to  dump  his  wastes  and  by-products  into  streams  or 
through  stacks  into  the  air  was  suffering  from  the  same 
limited  vision.  If  approached  by  local  officials  about 
stopping  the  practice,  his  answer  was  often  a  threat  to  leave 
town,  eliminating  jobs  for  local  citizens.  His  claim  was  that 
he  was  faced  with  the  necessity  of  making  a  profit  or  going 
out  of  business.  For  the  marginal  business,  this  might  have 
been  the  only  alternative.  However,  prosperous  businesses 
often  took  this  same  attitude. 

It's  easy  to  point  to  the  city  sewage  plant  or  the 
smoking  stacks  of  industry  as  sources  of  pollution,  but  until 
each  of  us  recognizes  his  own  contribution  to  the  overall 
problem  we  cannot  hope  to  solve  it.  Fortunately,  the  public 
is  being  made  aware  of  the  individual's  responsibilities. 

The  nation's  college  students  picked  up  the  torch  to 
crusade  for  a  better  environment  sometime  between  their 
crusades  for  civil  rights  and  the  end  of  the  war  in  Vietnam. 
Then  the  politicians  began  to  speak  on  the  perils  of 
pollution  with  the  result  that  new  laws  were  enacted  to 
protect  the  environment.  The  remaining  wetlands  received  a 
reprieve  from  the  real  estate  developers  as  people  finally 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


realized  that  they  are  a  part  of  the  natural  ecosystem  in 
which  man  lives.  Federal  standards  on  automotive  exhaust 
emissions  were  applauded  by  the  people,  if  not  by  the  auto 
makers.  They  couldn't  be  met,  said  Detroit,  but  teams  of 
college  students  from  all  over  the  country  including  five 
WPI  teams  proved  the  standards  could  be  met  in  the  1970 
Clean  Air  Car  Race. 

WPI  faculty  have  provided  national  leadership  in  en- 
vironmental research.  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  is,  in 
fact,  a  center  for  environmental  studies.  It  does  not  have  a 
separate  "environmental"  discipline  under  a  department 
head.  Rather,  these  studies  permeate  the  entire  program 
and  curriculum.  Because  the  problems  of  correcting  the 
misuse  of  the  environment  cut  across  the  lines  of  the 
traditional  academic  disciplines,  this  represents  a  logical 
approach. 

Environmental  problems  and  WPI's  response  to  those 
problems  have  had  a  major  impact  upon  education  and 
research  at  WPI.  There  has  been  a  nearly  ten-fold  increase  in 
sponsored  research  since  1965  at  WPI,  with  much  of  the 
growth  in  fields  related  to  the  environment.  A  major 
portion  of  the  sponsored  research  at  Alden  Research 
Laboratories  is  concerned  with  the  thermal  pollution  of 
rivers  and  other  water  systems.  Nearly  half  of  all  the 
sponsored  research  on  campus  is  related  to  air,  water,  and 
solid  waste  problems. 

WPI's  faculty  and  facilities  were  in  the  right  place  at  the 
right  time  to  work  on  environmental  problems  when  WPI 
made  the  decision  to  expand  its  research  program.  Instead 
of  following  the  more  traditional  engineering  college  path 
of  becoming  heavily  involved  with  defense  and  space 
research,  WPI  was  alert  to  the  then  (1965)  growing 
awareness  of  environmental  problems  and  proceeded  to 
grow  in  this  particular  socially-oriented  direction. 

The  present  concern  for  the  pollution  of  our  environ- 
ment was  first  brought  to  the  attention  of  most  people  by 
the  late  Rachel  Carson  in  her  book,  The  Silent  Spring. 
However,  the  problem  has  been  of  concern  to  others  for 
much  longer.  For  example,  research  into  the  problems  of 
thermal  pollution  of  streams  was  begun  in  1952  at  WPI's 
Alden  Research  Laboratories.  This  first  model  study  of  the 
Schuylkill  River  was  the  forerunner  of  twenty-five  studies 
on  the  problems  created  by  returning  heated  water  to 
streams  from  power  plants,  both  conventional  and  nuclear 
powered. 

The  faculty  at  WPI  recognized  the  dangers  of  continued 
pollution  before  it  became  a  national  concern.  In  1967,  the 
theme  for  a  day-long,  "Scientific  Briefing  for  Tomorrow" 
seminar  for  business  leaders  was  entitled  "Pollution:  Danger 
in 'our  Time."  This  program  featured  a  number  of  eminent 
authorities  describing  the  problem  of  pollution  and  steps 
already  being  taken  to  correct  the  problems. 

Perhaps  that  Scientific  Briefing  program  was  before  its 
time  for  the  topic  was  not  then  of  popular  concern. 
However,  for  the  businessman  who  attended,  it  was  a 
practical  forewarning  of  the  public  clamor  which  was  about 
to  descend  on  business  everywhere. 


WPI's  early  response  to  the  need  for  solutions  to 
environmental  problems  created  such  an  impression  on  the 
Sloan  Foundation  that  it  provided  a  three-year  grant  of 
$200,000  to  establish  an  Environmental  Systems  Study 
Program  for  undergraduate  students.  This  is  the  first  grant 
of  this  type  ever  given  by  the  Sloan  Foundation.  The  ESSP 
program  seeks  to  develop  the  methods  for  teaching  students 
to  approach  the  solution  of  environmental  problems  as  an 
interdisciplinary  effort.  The  program,  co-directed  by  Drs. 
Zwiebel  and  Keshavan,  deliberately  seeks  a  cross-section  of 
participating  students  and  faculty  from  many  departments. 

Students  in  ESSP  are  first  exposed  to  the  theoretical 
aspects  of  environmental  problems  to  help  them  recognize, 
understand  and  integrate  environmental  and  social  consider- 
ations into  a  project.  A  key  element  is  the  actual  project 
which  brings  students  and  faculty  into  a  close  working 
relationship  with  those  people  in  industry  and  government 
who  are  trying  to  solve  a  real  problem. 


10 


Working  in  small  groups,  ESSP  students  study  every 
aspect  of  their  selected  project  .  .  .  technological,  economic, 
and  social.  Only  by  recognizing  the  interrelationship  of  all 
these  areas  in  an  acceptable  solution  can  they  effectively 
act  on  the  problem. 

A  typical  project  now  in  progress  involves  the  discharge 
of  sewage  treatment  sludge  into  Boston  Harbor.  Another 
concerns  air  pollution  in  Worcester. 

Initially,  the  environmental  programs  on  campus  were 
primarily  in  the  hands  of  chemical,  civil,  and  mechanical 
engineers,  and  chemists,  often  with  a  single-discipline 
orientation.  The  electrical  engineer,  however,  has  come 
roaring  into  the  picture  recently,  primarily  because  of  an 
ability    to    work    on    problems    involving    large    systems. 

THE  WPI  JOURNA 


Professor  James  Demetry  has  a  new  sponsored  program  to 
educate  selected  health  boards,  planning  and  conservation 
commissions,  and  other  town  and  city  decision-makers  on 
the  environmental  issue.  Professor  Clements  has  submitted 
a  new  proposal  to  NSF  to  use  dynamic  state  estimation 
techniques  (originally  applied  to  aerospace  and  defense 
problems)  on  electric  power  systems  in  order  to  minimize 
fuel  consumption  (and  hence  pollution)  and  to  avoid 
system  instabilities,  brown-outs  and  black-outs.  Professor 
Harit  Majmudar  is  serving  as  program  manager  of  a  newly 
developing  proposed  program  concerned  with  power-plant 
siting,  a  subject  of  considerable  environmental  concern.  In 
the  latter  program,  Professor  Majmudar  will  manage  the 
program  and  the  use  of  research  results  obtained  from  the 
coordinated  efforts  of  political  scientists,  sociologists,  and 
economists,  as  well  as  engineers. 

The  civil  engineers  have  generally  viewed  the  environ- 
mental issue  in  its  broadest  sense,  i.e.,  the  aggregate  of  all 
external  conditions  and  influences  on  society.  Housing, 
transportation,  and  conditions  of  poverty  are  part  of  the 
broadly  conceived  environmental  problem.  Professor  Carl 
Koontz  is  planning  a  major  study  of  the  community  impact 
of  interstate  highways  1-91  and  1-291  in  the  Springfield, 
Massachusetts,  area.  In  the  past,  new  highway  location  has 
largely  been  determined  by  cost-benefit  analysis.  Currently, 
and  more  so  in  the  future,  social  effects  will  play  a 
dominant  role  in  highway  planning.  Professor  Koontz's 
research  will  provide  knowledge  for  better  highway  plan- 
ning in  the  future. 

Today,  it's  impossible  to  watch  television  or  listen  to 
radio  without  hearing  advertising  claims  for  washday 
products  which  proclaim  the  low  pollution  virtues  of  the 
sponsor's  product. 

The  claims,  the  speechmaking,  the  advertising,  and  the 
recendy  enacted  laws  have  all  served  to  arouse  the  public  to 
the  need  to  protect  the  environment  while  there's  still  time. 
At  the  same  time,  the  claims  and  counterclaims  have 
confused  people  to  the  extent  that  it's  often  difficult  to 
determine  what  is  truth.  It  is  at  this  point  that  the 
spokesmen  for  technology  must  speak  out.  For  too  long, 
this  group  has  been  silent.  To  engage  in  public  controversy 
was  "unprofessional"  according  to  the  ethics  of  a  genera- 
tion ago.  Not  so  today.  Perhaps  college  students  of  the  past 
decade  have  helped  to  change  this  attitude  and  for  good.  In 
the  change  from  the  apathetic  students  of  the  fifties  to  the 
concerned  students  of  the  sixties,  students  have  raised  the 
searching  questions  which  demand  that  professional  people 
take  a  stand. 


IE  WPI  JOURNAL 


11 


Whither 

the 

A  utomobile? 

by  Roger  R.  Borden  '61 


THE  AUTOMOBILE,  of  all  the  technological  innovations 
of  the  twentieth  century,  has  most  profoundly  affected  our 
pattern  of  living.  The  family  car,  once  a  luxury,  is  now 
taken  for  granted  as  a  necessity  of  life.  The  urban  sprawl  of 
most  North  American  metropolitan  areas  is  the  inevitable 
result  of  an  economy  based  upon  motor  vehicles  (cars  and 
trucks)  as  the  principal  form  of  available  transportation. 

Even  though  the  passenger  car  and  a  host  of  recrea- 
tional vehicles  have  made  it  convenient  to  pack  up  the 
family  and  travel  for  several  hundred  miles  on  vacations  for 
relaxation  and  enlightenment,  the  automotive  vehicle  as  the 
dominant  form  of  transportation  has  created  many  environ- 
mental problems: 

1.  Before  the  automobile  the  city  was  planned  along  the 
trolley  line  and  the  rich  and  the  poor  often  lived  within 
walking  distance  of  one  another.  It  would  be  naive  to  think 
that  there  was  once  a  "golden-age"  when  the  rich  and  poor 
socialized  with  one  another,  but  at  least  there  was  no 
geographical  separation. 

Today  the  suburban  youth  is  reared  with  others  of  a 
similar  socioeconomic  and  racial  background.  Many  young- 
sters going  through  the  typical  suburban  high  school  have 
almost  no  contact  with  a  poor  person,  especially  a  poor 
black  person.  This  geographical  separation  is  one  of  the 
by-products  of  the  automobile.  But  we  have  to  decide 
whether  it  is  the  best  way  to  raise  our  children.  On  the 
broader  plane,  can  such  economic  and  racial  isolation  really 
foster  a  democratic  society? 


Roger  R.  Borden  is  associate  professor  of  mechanical 
engineering.  He  was  faculty  advisor  to  two  of  WPl's  entries 
in  the  1970  Clean  Air  Car  Race  -  the  two  entries  which 
took  first  place  in  their  respective  classes. 


2.  Many  suburban  communities  are  so  situated  that  a 
second  car  is  a  necessity,  not  a  luxury.  The  man  needs  a  car 
to  get  to  work,  and  the  woman  needs  a  car  to  chauffeur  the 
children  and  run  errands.  As  one  cynic  has  said:  "If  you 
don't  buy  your  wife  the  second  car,  you'll  pay  the  same 
money  to  the  psychiatrist,  because  she  will  go  stir  crazy 
confined  to  her  suburban  house." 

3.  In  addition  to  the  more  than  50,000  Americans  killed 
each  year  in  automobile  accidents,  there  are  several  groups 
that  are  victims  of  the  automobile  explosion  —  the  poor, 


• 

jr. 

• 

* 

v 

• 

*                                , 

•   . 

MS, 

^*SJfij| 

i_ . 

% 

■H 

i 

...  \\t« 

»-»-..«.  fc 

v. 

'Jfe' 

•     '•;•' 

N.  U.  Patriots  Stadium/Worcester  Telegram 


12 


the  young,  and  the  aged.  The  poor  are  affected  in  several 
ways.  First,  many  do  not  have  cars,  and  when  they  do  the 
vehicles  are  unreliable  and  break  down  frequently.  In 
addition,  many  of  the  urban  poor  have  been  forced  to  leave 
their  homes  as  their  communities  are  disrupted  to  build 
new  highways  that  will  bring  more  cars  into  the  already 
congested  cities.  The  young,  particularly  in  the  suburbs, 
become  overly  dependent  on  their  mothers,  who  function 
as  chauffeurs.  These  youths  do  not  have  an  opportunity  to 
express  their  independence  until  they  reach  driving  age,  and 
for  the  suburban  teenager  the  automobile  has  thus  become 
a  symbol  of  liberation.  It  can  also  mean  a  third  or  fourth 
car  for  the  family.  The  elderly  who  cannot  or  do  not  want 
to  drive  are  unable  to  live  in  the  burgeoning  suburban  areas, 
where  life  necessitates  constant  access  to  the  automobile. 

4.  One  of  the  chief  contributors  to  air  pollution  in  urban 
centers  is  the  automobile.  Yet  rather  than  designing 
convenient  forms  of  mass  transportation,  we  encourage 
further  pollution  and  congestion  by  building  new  super- 
highways leading  into  our  cities.  In  addition,  the  auto- 
mobile is  a  key  contributor  to  space  pollution,  since  much 
urban  land  is  used  for  streets  and  parking. 

We  should  stop  treating  the  automobile  as  a  god.  It  is 
one  mode  of  transportation,  not  the  only  one.  There  are 
ethical  implications  to  the  secondary  consequences  of  the 
automobile,  and  a  host  of  questions  should  be  dealt  with:  Is 
it  just  that  the  federal  government  gives  huge  subsidies  to 
states  to  build  highways  but  pittances  to  develop  mass 
(public)  transit?  Cannot  the  highway  fund  be  diverted  to 
mass  transit?  What  about  the  effects  on  health  from  air 
pollution? 

5.  In  his  1965  book  Unsafe  at  Any  Speed,  Ralph  Nader, 
the  consumer  advocate,  claims  that  most  of  our  family 
automobiles  have  inadequate  mechanical  and/or  structural 
designs  for  safe  operation.  Although  there  is  much  con- 
troversy centered  on  the  details  of  Nader's  charges,  we  must 
admit  that  many  of  today's  cars  leave  much  to  be  desired 
from  the  standpoint  of  safe  operation  at  our  current  pace 
of  living.  It  would  appear  that  Detroit  has  sacrificed 
mechanical  and  structural  integrity  for  the  sake  of  styling 
and  pseudo-luxury. 


and  industrial  power  plants  in  the  U.S.  in  1971  is  400 
million  hp.  This  is  a  ratio  of  40  to  1.  Thus,  the  U.S.  with  6 
percent  of  the  world's  population  uses  30  percent  of  the 
world's  energy. 

The  air  pollution  from  this  energy  generation  and  use  is 
costly.  Dirty  air  costs  the  average  American  family  $309 
per  year:  health,  $117;  residential  property,  $100;  mate- 
rials, $90;  vegetation,  $2. 

Deaths  from  air  pollution  are  rising:  about  100  deaths 
per  100,000  of  the  population. 

Our  climate  is  changing.  Winter  temperatures  are  up  2 
to  3  degrees.  Cloudiness  is  up  5  to  10  percent.  Winter  fog  is 
up  100  percent.  Average  wind  speeds  are  down  20  to  30 
percent. 


The  Dilemma  of  the  Automobile 

The  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency  specifies  the 
emission  requirements  for  all  passenger  cars  and  eight 
trucks  under  6000  lb.  gross  vehicle  weight.  In  1970  there 
were  85  million  motor  vehicles  in  this  category  in  the 
United  States.  The  projection  for  1984  is  144  million.  Each 
year  we  have  a  net  gain  in  the  U.S.  population  of  2  million 
people,  but  we  add  4  million  passenger  automobiles. 

The  installed  horsepower,  in  1971,  for  all  motor 
vehicles  under  EPA  regulation  is  16  billion  hp.  For 
comparison,  the  installed  capacity  of  all  the  electric  utilities 


Clean  fuel  is  scarce.  We  have  left  a  13 -year  supply  of 
natural  gas,  a  35-year  supply  of  oil,  and  a  35-year  supply  of 
uranium. 

Our  known  mineral  reserves  (at  present  consumption) 
are  being  rapidly  depleted.  We  have  left: 

Zinc  for  20  years 

Lead  for  25  years 

Tin  for  30  years 

Copper  for  3  5  years 

Iron  ore  for  350  years 

Coal  for  450  years 


13 


The  Contribution  from  Automobiles  to  Air  Pollution 

The  1969  statistical  mean  values  for  automotive  engine  air  pollutants 
are  as  follows: 


Emissions  in  pounds  of 

pollutant 

per  pound  of  fuel  consumed 

Spark-ignition 

Carbon 

Un  burned 

Oxides  of 

Solid 

Oxides  of 

internal  combustion 

Monoxide 

Hydrocarbons 

Nitrogen 

Particulate 

Sulphur 

engines 

CO 

HC 

NOx 

Matter 

sox 

Los  Angeles 

0.500 

0.093 

0.024 

0.00022 

0.00014 

New  York 

0.972 

0.104 

0.018 

0.00018 

0.00014 

EPA  average  for 

0.560 

0.072 

0.031 

all  U.S.  cities 

Diesel  Engines 

Los  Angeles 

0.0045 

0.018 

0.018 

0.0045 

0.0045 

New  York 

0.0067 

0.020 

0.025 

0.0125 

0.0045 

Proposed  Clean 

Air  Power  Plants 

Rover  Gas  Turbine 

0.020 

— 

0.0003 

— 

0.002 

Thermo-Electron  RCE 

0.0002 

— 

0.0030 

— 

0.00045 

When  using  volatile  fuels  such  as  gasoline,  7  to  10  percent  of  the  total  fuel  input  is  vaporized  and  lost  before  reaching  the 
engine. 


Environmental  Protection  Agency  Emission  Requirements  as  of  July  1971 

CO  gm/m 
HC  gm/m 
NO  gm/m 


The  underscored  values  in  the  table  give  the  number  of  pounds  of  pollutant  per  pounds  of  fuel  consumed  at  an  average  of  15 
miles  per  gallon. 

*A  change  in  the  testing  procedure  allows  a  higher  numerical  value  indicating  lower  emissions. 

Resource  References: 

The  National  Wildlife  Federation:  National  Wildlife  Magazine,  Oct.-Nov.  1971  and  Dec-Jan.  1971-72. 
The  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency 
Moody's  Industrials 

Textual  Concepts: 

Tecb-nethics  by  Norman  J.  Faramelli,  Friendship  Press. 


Pre-1966  Base  Line 

1971 

1973 

1975 

1976 

86 

23 

39* 

3.4 

3.4 

0.44 

0.1176 

0.20 

15 

2.2 

3.4* 

0.41 

0.41 

0.007 

0.0113 

0.0174 

5 

4.0 

3.2 

3.0 

0.4 

0.0256 

0.0205 

0.0164 

Tln's<»   are   sonic   of   I  he    problem*.    Vow    we    iihikI    in  in    and    >c;ircli 
diligently  for  I  lie  answers. 


14 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL! 


Environmental  Progress  at  WPI 

This  Is  Where 
the  Action  Is! 


These  brief  descriptions  of  some  of  the  work  being  done  on 
the  WPI  campus  in  the  area  of  environmental  studies 
describe  typical  studies  and  are  by  no  means  a  complete 
listing.  They  are  included  here  to  indicate  the  scope  of 
interest  at  WPI  in  using  the  real  problems  of  environmental 
pollution  as  a  means  to  provide  a  sound  learning 
experience. 


thermal  pollution 

According  to  Prof.  Lawrence  C.  Neale,  director,  the  Alden 
Research  Laboratories  have  been  involved  in  studies 
concerned  with  environmental  problems  since  the 
Schuylkill  River  study  of  1952.  A  large  percentage  of  these 
studies  have  involved  the  thermal  effect  of  steam  power 
plants  with  "once  through"  cooling  systems.  From  this 
single  study  the  laboratory  activity  in  this  area  has 
expanded  to  include  a  total  of  over  twenty-five  studies,  of 
which  nine  are  active  at  the  present  time.  The  scope  of 
these  studies  has  ranged  from  a  simple  scale  model  with  a 
single  heated  discharge  to  automatic  tidal  models  including 
several  individual  plant  installations.  The  Indian  Point  III 
model,  as  an  example,  reproduces  a  14-mile  stretch  of  the 
Hudson  River  estuary  and  includes  plant  sites  for  four 
different  installations  with  modeled  warm  water  discharges. 
Instrumentation  has  advanced  from  mercury  thermometers 
read  infrequently  by  the  model  operator  to  data  retrieval 
systems  which  digitalize  data  from  as  many  as  300  sensors 
every  15  seconds  of  model  time  and  record  all  data  on 
magnetic  tape  for  remote  data  processing. 

In  all  of  the  thermal  studies  Alden  Research 
Laboratories  is  working  with  the  power  industry  to  develop 
combinations  of  operating  procedures  and  structural  design 
in  order  to  meet  various  government  standards  for  water 
quality.  In  the  final  analysis  the  studies  provide  environ- 
mentalists with  predictions  in  three  demensions  of  the 
temperature  distribution  in  the  receiving  body  due  the 
plant  operation.  In  the  same  category  of  thermal  problems 
a  presently  active  study  involves  a  combination  of 
pumped-storage  (hydroelectric)  with  nuclear  power  to 
utilize  the  upper  reservoir  as  a  heat  sink  and  thus  protecting 
the  lower  reservoir  and  the  associated  river  from  heavy  heat 
loads.  Other  studies  are  involving  straightforward  river 
situations,  natural  and  artificial  reservoirs,  and  in  some 
cases  open  seacoast. 

A  variation  from  the  river  model  type  of  study,  but  still 
aimed  at  the  heated  effluent  problem,  has  been  several 


WPI  JOURNAL 


15 


studies  of  spray  cooling.  One  study  for  a  Gulf  Coast  utility 
was  directed  at  the  optiming  action  of  spray  cooling  of  a 
flow  from  a  steam  power  plant  and  involved  an  experi- 
mental review  of  nozzle  design  and  operating  conditions.  A 
recent  study  (both  laboratory  and  field)  for  New  England 
Power  Company  has  covered  a  wider  range  of  parameters 
associated  with  spray  cooling.  In  addition  to  temperature 
reduction  efficiency  the  amount  of  spray  drift  interaction 
of  a  number  of  nozzles  and  associated  phenomena  have 
been  studied.  This  aspect  is  particularly  important  in 
situations  using  brackish  water  or  sea  water  and  thus  can 
produce  an  impact  on  adjacent  land  areas  and  the  possible 
uses  of  neighboring  lands. 

Associated  with  a  number  of  the  pumped-storage 
projects  the  flow  patterns  in  the  reservoirs  have  been 
studied  to  insure  minimum  velocities  compatible  with 
migratory  fish  movements.  Clear  passages  have  been 
maintained  or  developed  for  the  particular  design  of 
intake/outlet  structures.  This  has  also  been  developed  in 
terms  of  other  uses  of  the  water  body,  such  as  navigational 
and  recreational.  Water  velocities  at  the  bar  racks  and  other 
intake  sections  have  been  studied  and  patterns  developed  to 
minimize  the  entrapment  of  fish  and  other  swimming  life 
forms. 

In  the  hydraulic  machinery  field  several  studies  have 
been  performed  for  filters  and  screen  manufacturers.  This 
work  has  involved  new  types  of  equipment  designed  to 
improve  the  efficiency  of  such  equipment  as  used  in  the 
treatment  of  water  and  wastes  such  as  sewage. 

The  interaction  or  interrelation  of  power  production 
and  water  supply  has  generated  the  impetus  for  another 
model  study.  In  this  case  the  model  (at  a  rather  large  ratio 
—  1/4000)  of  Quabbin  Reservoir,  which  serves  Metropolitan 
Boston,  has  been  developed  to  review  possible  introduction 
sites  of  additional  water  sources  —  notably  the  Connecticut 
River  —  to  the  reservoir.  The  study  involves  density 
currents  and  travel  times  under  a  variety  of  conditions  and 
for  a  number  of  points  of  introduction.  The  aging  of  the 
reservoir  as  well  as  water  quality  are  involved  in  the 
problems  and  concerns  to  which  these  model  studies  are 
addressed. 


automotive  pollution 

After  reading  Professor  Roger  R.  Borden's  article  on  page 
12,  one  can  readily  appreciate  why  his  major  research 
efforts  are  being  directed  toward  the  development  of 
cleaner  automobile  engines.  His  first  efforts  in  this  field 
involved  about  60  students,  who  designed  and  modified  the 
five  WPI  entries  in  the  1970  Clean  Air  Car  Race.  WPI  teams 
took  two  first-place  awards  and  the  college  had  more 
entries  than  any  other  participating  institution. 

Since  the  1970  race,  a  second  generation  of  students 
has  taken  over  several  of  the  cars  and  are  working  to 
decrease  the  emissions  even  further. 

The  major  project  in  this  area  today  is  the  design  and 
construction  of  an  entry  for  the  1972  Urban  Vehicle  Design 
Competition.  The  competition  is  sponsored  by  SCORE, 
Inc.,  a  non-profit  organization  of  engineering  schools  whose 
purpose  is  to  promote  engineering  design  competitions  in 
socially  relevant  areas  of  engineering.  The  first  competition 
will  judge  the  efforts  of  student  teams  in  developing  an 
urban  vehicle  which  will  be  small,  safe,  and  will  produce 
minimum  pollution. 

Prof.  John  A.  Mayer  (mechanical  engineering)  is  faculty 
advisor  for  the  WPI  group,  which  now  numbers  about  50. 
students.  Although  most  arc  mechanical  engineering 
students,  there  are  several  from  other  departments.  Prof. 
Mayer  was  also  a  faculty  advisor  to  the  Clean  Air  SAAB 
team  in  the  1970  competition.  The  UVDC  team  began  its 
work  a  year  ago,  developing  an  initial  design  during  the 
spring  and  summer.  The  project  is  now  at  the  construction 
stage.  The  former  aero  laboratory  on  the  top  floor  of  the 
Washburn  Building  has  been  taken  over  by  the  team.  Here 
they  are  doing  their  final  designs,  building  the  molds  tor  the 
plastic  body,  and  working  on  smaller  components. 

The  vehicle  is  being  built  from  the  ground  up,  although 
many  standard  automotive  components  will  be  used.  It  will 
have  an  internal  combustion  engine  which  will  drive  the  car 
through  a  hydraulic  transmission  to  the  wheels. 


16 


THE  WPI  JOURNA 


food  and  fuel  synthesis 

Dr.  Alvin  H.  Weiss,  chemical  engineering,  began  his  work  in 
this  field  on  an  out-of-this-world  project.  It  began  with  a 
grant  from  the  National  Aeronautics  and  Space  Administra- 
tion for  the  development  of  a  process  of  creating  edible 
food  on  long  space  voyages.  Simply  stated,  Dr.  Weiss  was 
trying  to  develop  a  process  for  making  sugar  from  the 
exhaled  breath  of  the  astronauts. 

Behind  this  project  lies  the  fact  that  in  the  small  closed 
ecosystem  of  a  space  ship  it  becomes  impractical  to  carry 
large  supplies  if  the  recycling  of  material  within  the  ship 
can  accomplish  the  same  ends.  Experimental  results  have 
been  obtained  which  show  the  feasibility  of  producing  not 
only  potentially  edible  sugars  but  also  a  new  class  of 
branched  carbohydrates  that  do  not  occur  in  nature. 

Even  with  man's  space  flights  to  the  moon  already 
history,  the  concern  about  manufacturing  food  in  space 
may  not  seem  as  important  to  the  average  man  on  the  street 
as  some  of  the  more  current  problems  here  on  earth. 
However,  "current  population  growth  is  such  that  it  is 
predicted  that  the  manufacture  of  foods  will  be  required 
within  the  next  generation.  The  availability  of  carbon 
monoxide  from  natural  gas,  petroleum,  and  proposed  coal 
refineries  makes  CO  a  preferred  raw  material  for  producing 
both  carbohydrates  and  single-cell  protein,"  says  Dr.  Weiss. 
He  believes  that  large-scale  food  refineries  may  well  be  built 
in  the  foreseeable  future  to  produce  man-made  food.  These 
will  be  used  for  animal  feed,  thus  releasing  farm  land  for 
human  needs. 

Briefly,  the  process  for  creating  food  from  carbon 
monoxide  begins  with  converting  the  CO  into 
formaldehyde.  The  formaldehyde  can  then  be  converted  to 
"formose"  sugars,  which  in  turn  serve  as  substrate  for 
single-cell  protein  growth. 


Dr.  Weiss  and  his  team  of  researchers  are  also  working 
on  a  process  to  make  oil  from  solid  waste.  "Present 
methods  of  solid  waste  disposal  are  ineffective  and  will 
become  more  so  in  the  future,  due  to  the  sheer  volume  of 
materials.  Refuse  per  capita  is  expected  to  increase  much 
faster  than  population  growth,  and  therefore  more  effective 
means  of  disposal  must  be  explored  now."  His  process  is  to 
convert  the  cellulose  in  solid  waste  material  into  useful  oil. 
The  great  bulk  of  household  refuse  is  paper  and  paper 
products.  With  the  ban  on  burning  in  many  communities 
the  amounts  of  waste  have  multiplied  many  times.  In  his 
process,  which  Dr.  Weiss  described  on  the  NBC  Today 
Show  in  September,  the  waste  is  ground  up  to  fine 
particles.  These  fine  particles  are  then  mixed  with  a  liquid, 
probably  some  of  the  end-product  oil,  and  fed  into  a 
reactor  where  the  cellulose  is  hydrogenated.  The  resultant 
product  is  about  the  consistency  and  the  grade  of  crude 
petroleum. 

Dr.  Weiss  envisions  this  process  being  operated  in  larger 
municipalities.  Solid  waste  would  be  collected  from  the 
community  and  processed  in  a  central  plant.  The  resulting 
crude  oil  could  be  burned  in  power  plants  or  certain 
municipal  buildings.  More  likely,  however,  the  oil  would  be 
sent  to  a  commercial  refinery  where  it  would  be  processed 
in  the  same  manner  as  natural  crude  oil  to  produce  the 
various  fractions  which  might  be  needed. 

His  process  handles  not  only  waste  paper  but  also 
garbage,  tree  branches,  and  leaves.  He  envisions  a  processing 
plant  which  will  take  assorted  rubbish  and  mechanically 
separate  out  glass  and  metal  for  salvage  and  recycling.  Just 
about  everything  else  would  go  through  his  oil-making 
process.  This  will  help  solve  two  of  man's  pressing 
problems,  a  declining  reserve  in  fuels  and  a  mounting 
potential  of  rubbish  and  garbage.  And  about  the  only 
by-product  of  his  process  would  be  steam  going  into  the  air 
with  no  air  pollution. 


17 


urban  planning 


Since  the  principal  sources  of  the  pollution  of  the 
environment  result  from  the  urbanization  of  man,  the  civil 
engineering  department's  urban  planning  program,  headed 
by  Prof.  B.  Allen  Benjamin  and  Prof.  George  E.  Mansfield, 
is  deeply  involved  in  environmental  studies. 

Student  projects  in  the  program  for  the  past  seven  years 
have  involved  consideration  for  the  environment  as  students 
planned  hypothetical  new  communities,  investigated 
blighted  areas  suitable  for  redevelopment,  and  considered 
the  impact  of  a  new  jet  port  in  central  Massachusetts  (a 
proposal  made  and  since  dropped  by  public  officials). 

An  important  part  of  the  urban  planning  program 
involves  the  study  of  the  political  processes  by  which  things 
get  done  in  municipalities.  In  this  area,  members  of  other 
WPI  academic  departments  have  contributed  their  special 
expertise. 

A  new  program  has  just  been  funded  by  the  U.S. 
Department  of  Health,  Education  and  Welfare  to  provide 
off-campus,  non-credit  courses  for  public  officials 
concerned  with  urban  planning.  Directed  by  Dr.  James 
Demetry  of  electrical  engineering,  the  program  will  involve 
classes  conducted  in  area  communities  during  the  evening 
for  town  selectmen,  planning  board  members,  and  any 
other  public  officials  faced  with  the  problems  of  growing 
communities. 


oceanography 

The  public  is  slowly  awakening  to  the  fact  that  the 
seemingly  limitless  seas  of  the  world  are  also  affected  by 
pollution.  The  sea  has  been  a  vast  dumping-ground  for 
many  years,  and  there  is  ample,  visible  evidence  that  man 
cannot  continue  this  practice  without  causing  possibly 
irrevocable  damage. 

The  civil  engineering  department  is  offering  an 
advanced  undergraduate-graduate  course  in  oceanography 
to  acquaint  students  with  basic  knowledge  of  ocean 
processes.  Prof.  Armand  J.  Silva,  head  of  the  department, 
has  been  involved  in  research  with  the  Woods  Hole 
Oceanographic  Institute  for  more  than  two  years.  He  has 
been  analyzing  samples  obtained  by  boring  into  the  ocean 
floor.  Knowledge  of  the  ocean's  floor  is  essential  if  man  is 
to  anchor  structures  to  it.  At  the  present  time  these  are 
mainly  oil-drilling  platforms,  but  long-range  predictions 
suggest  that  man  may  someday  erect  bases  for  the  recovery 
of  minerals  or  for  power  generation  on  the  ocean  floor. 

"The  assessment  of  the  engineering  properties  of  marine 
sediments  is  vitally  important  to  the  design  of  structures  to 
be  founded  on  or  anchored  to  the  sea  bed,"  says  Prof.  Silva. 
"Proposals  have  been  made  to  build  rather  large  structures 
on  the  ocean  floor,  and  the  stability  of  these  depends 
largely  upon  the  support  provided  by  the  underlying 
sediments.  Thus,  it  may  at  some  time  become  feasible  to 
place  a  nuclear  power  plant  on  the  sea  floor." 

"Slumping  of  marine  sediments  on  even  very  gradual 
slopes  is  not  uncommon.  These  submarine  movements  can 
impart  tremendous  loads  to  structures  such  as  oil-drilling 
platforms,  and  the  result  may  be  the  collapse  of  the 
structure,  rupture  of  the  oil  line,  and  disastrous  oil  spills." 


1 

^r 

■ 

f2             '  /fl^V  nfl 

It  ^BftaR, 

THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


water  pollution  control 

The  main  thrust  of  WPI's  efforts  in  the  study  of  water 
pollution  is  now  centered  in  the  newly  built  Water  Quality 
Research  Laboratory  in  Kaven  Hall,  headed  by  Dr.  K. 
Keshavan,  civil  engineering.  This  laboratory  was  made 
possible  by  generous  support  from  the  George  F.  and  Sybil 
H.  Fuller  Foundation.  Facilities  are  available  to  both 
graduate  and  undergraduate  students. 

Water  pollution  studies  normally  involve  an  inter- 
disciplinary approach  between  the  civil  engineer,  the 
chemist  and  the  biologist.  A  typical  project  is  one  now 
investigating  the  possibilities  of  hazardous  chlorinated 
organic  compounds  (similar  to  DDT  and  other  pesticides) 
being  created  when  natural  run-off  water  is  chlorinated  in 
the  processing  of  water  for  general  use  or  in  the  treatment 
of  industrial  discharges.  Dr.  Keshavan  and  Dr.  Theodore  C. 
Crusberg,  chemistry,  are  directing  the  work  on  this  $44,000 
NSF-sponsored  project. 

Another  project  involves  the  development  of  a 
mathematical  model  to  determine  what  happens  when  both 
organic  and  thermal  pollution  are  simultaneously  dis- 
charged into  a  stream.  Here,  the  active  participation  of  Dr. 
George  C.  Sornberger,  mathematics,  and  the  facilities  of 
Alden  Research  Laboratories  have  been  essential. 


the  quality  of 
quinsigamond 


Worcester's  Lake  Quinsigamond,  once  a  summer  resort  for 
the  people  of  the  area,  has  become  badly  polluted.  In 
recent  years,  there  has  been  increasing  public  concern  and 
awareness  of  the  lake's  rapidly  deteriorating  suitability  for 
recreational  purposes.  This  lake  is  considered  one  of  the 
finest  courses  for  crew  racing  in  the  East,  and  for  several 
years  it  has  been  the  scene  of  the  annual  Eastern  Sprints 
regatta.  However,  crew  members  are  told,  only  partly  in 
jest,  "God  help  you  if  you  fall  in." 

During  the  past  summer,  a  comprehensive  study  was 
made  of  the  lake  by  a  team  of  four  students,  two  from  WP1 
and  two  from  Clark  University.  Working  under  Prof.  Leon 
S.  Graubard  (economics,  government,  and  business)  of  WPI 
and  Prof.  Terrance  Moody  of  Clark,  these  students  (one  an 
undergraduate)  investigated  the  lake's  pollution  from  all 
aspects,  including  the  economic  considerations,  to 
determine  what  future  actions  might  be  recommended. 

The  project  was  financed  by  a  grant  from  the  New 
England  Board  of  Higher  Education. 

The  study  was  planned  to  (1)  determine  the  subject  and 
scope  of  existing  studies,  (2)  determine  the  nature  of  the 
pollution  problem,  and  (3)  suggest  alternative  solutions  to 
the  problem  and  investigate  their  implications.  The  first 
two  of  these  objectives  were  accomplished  without  much 
difficulty. 

However,  the  heart  of  the  project  was  really  to 
determine  the  social  and  economic  considerations  which 
would  affect  any  corrective  action  that  should  be  taken. 
The  students'  conclusion  was  that  the  development  of  Lake 
Quinsigamond  and  the  surrounding  region  would  most 
probably  be  residential  and  recreational.  The  team 
recommended  that  pollution  abatement  should  be  directed 
toward  the  improvement  of  water  quality  to  meet  standards 
for  fishing  and  swimming.  They  determined  that  this  could 
be  accomplished  through  improved  sewage  handling  in  the 
surrounding  area  and  through  aeration  of  the  lake  itself  to 
increase  the  oxygen  content  for  fish  and  reverse  the 
eutrophication  process. 


E  WPI  JOURNAL 


19 


nuclear  power 
and  cleaner  air 


As  the  nation  moves  toward  a  recycle  economy,  striving  to 
reduce  waste  and  pollutants,  there  will  be  an  increasing 
need  for  electric  power.  At  the  present  time  a  1000 
megawatt  electric  generating  station  burning  coal  consumes 
about  160  railroad  cars  of  coal  every  day;  it  discharges  up 
to  250  tons  of  sulphur  dioxide  into  the  atmosphere  each 
day  along  with  80  tons  of  nitrogen  oxides  as  well  as 
particulate  matter.  Nuclear  power  plants  of  the  same  size 
use  only  a  few  tons  of  fuel  annually  and  have  negligible 
discharges  to  the  atmosphere.  On  the  other  hand,  nuclear 
plants  now  under  construction  will  require  more  cooling 
water  than  the  fossil-fuel-burning  plants.  The  dangers  of  a 
nuclear  accident  in  an  atomic  power  plant  are  extremely 
remote  though  not  impossible.  The  storage  of  waste  is  also 
a  major  problem. 

Proposals  to  build  nuclear  power  plants  have  generated 
a  storm  of  controversy  in  many  communities.  According  to 
Prof.  Leslie  C.  Wilbur,  director  of  the  WPI  nuclear  reactor 
facility,  some  of  the  arguments  advanced  are  based  on 
technical  data.  However,  all  too  frequently  opposition  to 
the  location  of  a  nuclear  power  plant  is  based  on  fear  and 
misunderstanding. 

To  help  provide  background  information  for  the  public, 
Prof.  Wilbur  is  now  giving  a  course  called"The  Nuclear  Power 
Controversy."  This  is  an  evaluation  of  the  risks  and  benefits 
associated  with  nuclear  power  plants.  Topics  include  the 
governing  principles  of  nuclear  reactors  and  matters  of 
public  concern  such  as  radiation  effects,  thermal  pollution 
problems,  and  accident  potentials. 

According  to  Prof.  Wilbur,  "the  active  participation  of 
the  public  in  controversial,  technologically  based  issues 
deserves  recognition  and  educational  support.  High  school 
teachers  are  often  no  more  knowledgeable  than  the  general 
public  concerning  the  basic  principles,  terminology,  and 
constraints  involved. 

"WPI  has  the  staff  expertise  to  readily  offer  evening 
graduate  courses  for  consortium  students  and  high  school 
teachers  in  topics  such  as  air-  or  water-pollution  control, 
urban  planning,  power  generation,  etc.  This  new  course 
dealing  with  the  nuclear  power  controversy  is  intended  to 
be  a  pilot  course  for  others  to  follow."  A  unique  feature  of 
this  course  is  that  James  Hensel,  associate  professor  of 
English,  will  assist  Prof.  Wilbur,  who  will  handle  the 
technical  aspects  of  the  issues.  Prof.  Hensel's  primary 
function  will  be  to  insist  on  lucid  and  objective 
presentation  compatible  with  the  academic  backgrounds  of 
those  not  specifically  trained  in  science  and  technology. 

The  new  course  is  being  assisted  by  a  grant  from 
Yankee  Atomic  Electric  Co.  However,  under  the  terms  of 
the  grant,  Yankee  Atomic  is  not  influencing  course 
material,  classroom  discussions,  or  conclusions. 


20 


Reunion  Weekend  1972 
June  9, 10,  and  11 

Make  Your  Plans  Now  to  Attend 
and  Enjoy  the  Fun  and  Festivities 


*  IS 


COMPLETED  CAREERS 


GILBERT  C.  LAMB,  SR.,  '08 

Gilbert  C.  Lamb,  Sr.,  former  navigator 
of  the  USS  Enterprise,  died  July  6,  1971  in 
Milwaukee,  Wisconsin  at  the  age  of  87  years. 

Mr.  Lamb  was  born  in  Franklin,  Con- 
necticut on  April  17,  1884  and  was  edu- 
cated at  Worcester  South  High  School  and 
WPI.  As  a  youth  he  was  a  cadet  on  the 
Enterprise  when  it  navigated  the  Neva  River 
in  Russia  and  at  that  time  he  was  permitted 
to  visit  the  winter  palace  of  the  Czar. 
Among  his  superior  officers  were  Admiral 
"Fighting"  Bob  Evans  and  Rear  Admiral 
Robert  E.  Coontz. 

After  eight  years  at  sea  he  worked  for 
the  Wisconsin  Electric  Manufacturing  Co. 
and  later  headed  Gilbert  C.  Lamb,  Inc., 
(Manufacturers'  Representatives).  He  was  a 
member  of  A.I.E.E.  and  was  active  in 
Masonic  organizations. 

Among  his  survivors  are  three  daughters, 
Mrs.  Lorraine  MacDonald,  Brown  Deer, 
Wise;  Mrs.  Douglas  Paust,  Wauwatosa, 
Wise;  and  Mrs.  Lee  Price,  Newport  News, 
Virginia;  and  one  son,  Gilbert,  Jr.  of  Mil- 
waukee. 

JEROME  W.  HOWE, '09 

Jerome  W.  Howe,  85,  dean  emeritus  of 
students  and  admissions  at  WPI,  passed 
away  on  November  16,  1971  in  Worcester, 
Massachusetts. 

Dean  Howe  was  born  in  Worcester  on 
October  12,  1886,  was  educated  at  English 
High  School,  and  graduated  from  WPI  in 
1909  with  a  degree  in  civil  engineering.  Prior 
to  World  War  I  he  taught  at  Pennsylvania 
Military  College  in  Chester,  Pa.,  and  was  a 
bridge  draftsman  for  Phoenix  Bridge  Co., 
Phoenixville,  Pa.  He  was  in  the  U.S.  Army 
from  1913  until  1924  when  he  retired  with 
the  rank  of  Major.  While  in  the  service  he 
received  two  Silver  Star  citations. 

In  1924  he  joined  the  WPI  staff  as  an 
assistant  professor  of  civil  engineering.  He 
was  promoted  to  professor  in  1926  and 
became  head  of  the  department  in  1933.  He 


was  appointed  dean  and  assistant  director  of 
admissions  in  1937,  posts  from  which  he 
retired  in  1953.  In  1944  he  was  awarded  an 
honorary  doctor  of  engineering  degree  from 
WPI. 

Dean  Howe  was  a  frequent  book  re- 
viewer and  authored  his  own  book  "Cam- 
paigning in  Mexico,  1916".  He  was  past 
president  of  the  Worcester  Society  of  Civil 
Engineers,  Sigma  XI,  Friends  of  the  Library, 
Tech  Old-Timers  Club,  and  was  a  developer 
of  the  WPI  Techniquest  program.  He  was 
also  a  former  deacon  and  treasurer  of  the 
Central  Congregational  Church. 

Besides  his  widow,  Mrs.  Helen  C.  Howe, 
Worcester,  he  leaves  a  son,  Jerome  W.  Howe, 
Jr.,  of  Baltimore,  Md.;  a  daughter,  Mrs. 
Beverly  Osborn  and  a  sister,  Mrs.  Florence 
Andrews,  both  of  Worcester;  and  four 
grandchildren. 

HAROLD  C.  HICKOCK,  '16 

A  retired  sales  manager  of  the  Westing- 
house  Electric  Company,  Harold  C.  Hick- 
ock,  died  in  La  Jolla,  California,  November 
3,1971. 

He  was  born  in  North  Adams,  Mass.,  on 
June  7,  1894  and  graduated  from  WPI  in 
1916  with  an  electrical  engineering  degree. 
Ten  years  ago  he  retired  from  Westinghouse 
after  45  years  of  service,  and  moved  to  La 
Jolla  where  he  was  a  trustee  of  the  Presby- 
terian Church  and  chairman  of  the  Town 
Council's  Mini-Bus  Committee.  He  was  a 
Navy  veteran  of  World  War  I. 

He  leaves  his  wife,  the  former  Ethel  M. 
Howard;  a  daughter,  Mrs.  Graves  of  Denver, 
Colo.;  and  five  grandchildren. 

FREDB.  CARLISLE, '17 

Fred  B.  Carlisle,  '17,  who  aided  in  the 
secret  development  of  an  armored  personnel 
carrier  scheduled  to  be  used  during  World 
War  II,  died  on  October  13,  1971  in  Los 
Gatos,  California. 

Born  in  Hillsboro,  Ohio,  he  was  edu- 
cated   at    Hillsboro    High    School    and    gra- 


duated from  WPI  with  a  Degree  in  Mechani- 
cal Engineering  in  1917. 

Mr.  Carlisle  was  a  retired  design  engineer 
for  Studebaker-Packard  Corp.  and  played  a 
major  role  in  the  development  of  the  con- 
troversial post-war  car,  the  bullet-nosed 
Studebaker  Champion.  He  was  with  Stude- 
baker  for  35  years  until  his  retirement  in 
1959.  He  was  a  member  of  Alpha  Tau 
Omega. 

Among  his  survivors  are  his  widow,  Mrs. 
Dolly  Holladay  Carlisle;  a  son.  Dr.  Frederick 
B.  Carlisle,  Jr.  of  Los  Gatos,  California,  and 
a  sister,  Mrs.  Ferris  Hughes  of  Ohio. 

HAROLD  W.  THOMPSON,  '19 

Harold  W.  Thompson  passed  away  on 
October  13,  1971  in  Needham,  Mass.  at  the 
age  of  76. 

Born  in  Brockton,  on  Sept.  25,  1895,  he 
attended  Brockton  High  School  and  grad- 
uated from  WPI  in  1919.  In  1960  he  retired 
from  the  New  England  Power  Service  Co. 
where  he  had  been  an  electrical  engineer  for 
over  42  years.  He  was  a  member  of  the 
Massachusetts  Society  of  Professional  Engi- 
neers and  was  a  Mason.  He  sang  with 
barbershop  quartets  in  Waltham,  Wellesley 
and  Newton. 

He  is  survived  by  his  widow,  Mrs.  Ruth 
Ives  Thompson;  three  sons,  Donald  W. 
Thompson  of  Shrewsbury,  John  Ives  of 
Schenectady,  N.Y.,  and  Frederic  Ives  of 
Hartford,  Conn.;  a  daughter,  Mrs.  Nancy 
Quinlan  of  Framingham;  a  brother,  Joel 
Thompson  of  East  Bridgewater,  and  three 
grandchildren. 

HOBART  A.  WHITNEY,  '19 

Hobart  A.  Whitney,  74,  passed  away  on 
October  7,  1971  in  Pensacola,  Florida. 

He  was  born  on  October  21,  1896  in 
Leominster,  Mass.,  and  attended  Leominster 
High  School,  Phillips  Exeter  Academy,  and 
WPI.  Mr.  Whitney,  a  retired  agent  for  the 
Metropolitan  Life  Insurance  Company,  was 
a  member  of  Theta  Chi. 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


23 


Among  his  survivors  are  his  widow,  Mrs. 
Margaret  Brown  Whitney;  two  daughters, 
Mrs.  Betty  Boll  of  Pensacola  and  Mrs.  Claire 
Ehlers  of  Atlanta,  Georgia;  two  sons,  Hobart 
A.  Whitney,  Jr.  of  Atlanta,  Georgia;  and  Lt. 
Col.  Richard  A.  Whitney,  USAF,  Vanden- 
burg  AFB,  California. 

WALTER  SMITH,  '20 

Walter  L.  Smith,  deputy  director  of 
Quincy  City  Hospital  from  1951  to  1964, 
died  suddenly  in  West  Harwich,  Mass.,  on 
September  30,  1971 .  He  was  72. 

Born  on  January  3,  1899  in  Whitinsville, 
Mass.,  he  attended  Northbridge  High  School 
and  WPI.  He  served  with  the  U.S.  Army  in 
World  War  I  and  was  later  employed  as  an 
auditor  by  Kaufmann's  Department  Store, 
Pittsburgh,  Pa. 

HAROLD  F.  TOUSEY,  '21 

Harold  F.  Tousey,  Branford  (Conn.) 
park  commissioner,  died  November  11, 
1971  in  New  Haven,  Connecticut.  He  was 
73  years  old. 

Born  at  Cowes,  Isle  of  Wight,  England, 
on  April  27,  1898,  he  attended  Bridgeport 
(Conn.)  High  School,  Lafayette  High 
School,  Buffalo,  N.Y.  and  graduated  with  a 
degree  in  mechanical  engineering  from  WPI 
in  1921. 

For  over  25  years  he  was  with  the 
Malleable  Iron  Fittings  Co.  of  Branford.  He 
retired  after  serving  as  office  manager  in 
1967.  At  the  time  of  his  death  he  was  with 
Ben  Nek  Holder,  Inc.,  Branford. 

Mr.  Tousey,  a  past  member  of  Alpha 
Tau  Omega,  is  survived  by  his  widow,  Mrs. 
Adeline  C.  Tousey;  a  son,  Richard  C. 
Tousey,  Guilford,  Conn.;  a  daughter,  Mrs. 
Richard  F.  Kilburn  of  Vestal,  N.Y. ;  a  sister, 
Mrs.  W.  Sherwood  Wilmont,  Bridgeport, 
Conn.;  and  five  grandchildren. 

EVERETT  E.  JESSUP,  JR.,  '26 

Everett  E.  Jessup,  Jr.,  68,  died  on 
December  5,  1971  in  Worcester,  Mass. 

He  was  born  in  Bridgeport,  Conn.,  on 
September  25,  1909,  studied  at  North  High 
School,  Worcester,  and  WPI.  A  Navy  veteran 
of  World  War  II,  he  served  as  a  First  Class 
Carpenter's  Mate  with  the  Seabees  in  the 
Pacific  area.  He  retired  in  1 967  as  a  cabinet- 
maker for  the  former  Franklin  Window  Co. 

Besides  his  father,  he  leaves  two  cousins, 
Charles  Piatt  of  Milford,  Conn.,  and  William 
Piatt  of  Stratford,  Conn. 


CLYDE  W.  HUBBARD,  '26 

Clyde  W.  Hubbard,  68,  a  former  assist- 
ant professor  of  hydraulics  at  WPI,  died  in 
Nahant,  Mass.,  on  November  12,  1971  after 
a  brief  illness. 

He  was  born  in  Holden  on  February  11, 
1903,  attended  North  High  School,  Worces- 


ter, and  graduated  from  WPI  in  1926  with  a 
degree  in  mechanical  engineering.  From 
1926  to  1941  he  was  an  assistant  professor 
at  WPI.  During  World  War  II  he  was  em- 
ployed in  the  research  department  at  the 
David  W.  Taylor  Model  Basin,  Washington, 
D.C.  and  later  served  in  the  Navy  as  a 
lieutenant  commander  in  ship  salvage  opera- 
tions in  the  Pacific  theater. 

After  the  war  he  was  affiliated  with  the 
Great  Northern  Paper  Co.,  Millinocket, 
Maine.  In  1949  he  joined  the  Boston  firm. 
Stone  and  Webster  Engineering  Corp.,  as 
a  hydraulic  engineer. 

Mr.  Hubbard  was  a  fellow  of  the  Ameri- 
can Society  of  Mechanical  Engineers  and 
was  a  commander  of  Mortimer  G.  Robbins 
Post,  American  Legion,  Nahant.  He  was  a 
member  of  Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon. 

Among  his  survivors  are  his  widow,  Mrs. 
Virginia  Haley  Hubbard;  two  daughters.  Dr. 
Dorothy  Gampel  of  Weston  and  Mrs.  Nancy 
Marden  of  Ticonderoga,  N.Y.;  a  brother, 
Edward,  of  Endicott,  N.Y.,  and  five  grand- 
children. 

FLOYD  C.  HUNTINGTON,  '28 

Floyd  C.  Huntington  died  October  12, 
1971  in  Denver,  Colorado.  He  was  64. 

A  native  of  Hardwick,  Vermont,  he 
attended  Hardwick  Academy  and  was  grad- 
uated from  WPI  in  1928  with  a  degree  in 
mechanical  engineering.  He  was  employed  as 
a  fire  protection  engineer  and  insurance 
broker.  At  the  time  of  his  death  he  was  vice 
president  of  Hiram  C.  Gardner,  Inc. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  Denver  Athletic 
Club,  Society  of  Fire  Protection  Engineers, 
Rocky  Mountain  Chapter  of  the  Chartered 
Property  Casualty  Underwriters,  Honorable 
Order  of  the  Blue  Goose  International, 
National  Association  of  Mutual  Agents, 
Colorado  Independent  Insurance  Agents, 
and  Phi  Sigma  Kappa  Fraternity. 

Among  his  survivors  are  his  widow,  Mrs. 
Florence  Ellanson  Huntington;  two  sons, 
Richard  R.  of  California  and  Clinton  W.  of 
Grafenoehr,  Germany;  a  brother,  Carroll 
Allen  of  Dover,  Mass.,  and  four  grand- 
children. 

CHARLES  S.  O'BRIEN,  '32 

Charles  S.  O'Brien  passed  away  suddenly 
of  a  heart  attack  on  February  9,  1971  in 
Palos  Verdes  Peninsula,  California  at  the  age 
of  61. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester,  Massachusetts 
on  July  29,  1919,  attended  Springfield 
Technical  High  School  and  graduated  from 
WPI  in  1932  with  a  degree  in  mechanical 
engineering. 

A  member  of  Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon,  he 
worked  in  various  capacities  for  the  U.S. 
Envelope  Company  and  Milton  Bradley  Co., 
both  of  Springfield,  Mass.,  before  becoming 
associated   with    the    Bemis  Co.,   Inc.,  Wil- 


24 


mington,  Calif.,  in  1946.  He  served  as 
manager  of  the  company  prior  to  his  death. 
Mr.  O'Brien  is  survived  by  his  widow, 
Mrs.  Mary  Kelly  O'Brien  of  Palos  Verdes 
Peninsula,  California. 


RICHARD  L.  GOODWIN,  '34 

A  recently  retired  building  contractor, 
Richard  L.  Goodwin,  died  in  Bay  Pines, 
Florida,  on  September  30,  1971.  He  was  58 
years  old. 

Mr.  Goodwin,  a  native  of  Springfield, 
Mass.,  was  educated  at  Springfield  Technical 
High  School,  and  graduated  from  WPI  in 
1934  with  a  degree  in  Electrical  Engi- 
neering. 

During  his  working  lifetime  he  was 
employed  by  the  Worcester  Industrial  Power 
Survey  Co.,  Graton  &  Knight  Mfg.  Co.,  and 
Logan,  Swift  &  Brigham  Co.,  all  of  Worces- 
ter. During  World  War  II  he  was  a  Lieuten- 
ant Commander  in  the  U.S.  Navy.  In  later 
years  he  was  president  of  Vega  Bolt  &  Nut 
Supply  Co.,  Worcester,  and  also  associated 
with  the  Dayton  Rubber  Co.,  Dayton,  Ohio. 
He  was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa. 

Among  his  survivors  are  a  son,  Clifford 
R.  Goodwin  of  Worcester;  a  daughter,  Mrs. 
Susan  E.  Anderson  of  Concord,  N.H.;anda 
brother,  Ross  W.  Goodwin,  Hadley,  Mass. 

MARTIN  G.CAINE, '37 

Martin  G.  Caine  died  on  October  25, 
1971  in  Maplewood,  N.J. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester,  Mass.,  on 
February  1,  1916  and  attended  Classical 
High  School.  After  graduating  from  WPI  in 
1937  with  a  Degree  in  Chemical  Engineer- 
ing, he  served  as  a  chemist  for  the  Siemon 
Co.  and  later  for  Monsanto  Chemical  Co.  He 
joined  Tenneco  Chemical,  Inc.,  in  1967  and 
in  1968  was  made  president  of  the  Tenneco 
Plastics  Division. 

Mr.  Caine  was  a  member  of  Alpha 
Epsilon  Pi,  the  Society  of  Plastics  Engineers; 
American  Chemical  Society;  and  the  Society 
of  Naval  Engineers. 


EDWARD  J.  CAVANAUGH,  '46 

Col.  Edward  J.  Cavanaugh  was  killed  in 
Vietnam  on  July  29,  1971 . 

Born  on  November  27,  1923  at  Worces- 
ter, Mass.,  he  attended  South  High  School 
and  WPI.  He  was  a  graduate  of  the  United 
States  Military  Academy  and  the  Army  War 
College  at  Carlisle  Barracks,  Pa. 

In  1968  he  received  his  second  Legion 
of  Merit  award.  The  distinction  came  while 
he  was  on  duty  at  the  Vietnam  Head- 
quarters of  the  U.S.  Army  near  Long  Binh. 
The  citation  was  for  "exceptionally  merito- 
rious conduct." 

Col.  Cavanaugh  had  previously  been 
awarded  the  Silver  Star,  the  Bronze  Star  and 
the  Purple  Heart  while  serving  in  Korea. 

THE  WPI  JOURNA 


YOUR  CLASS  AND  OTHERS 


These  items  are  based  on  information 
received  at  the  Alumni  Office  by  December 
15,  1971. 

1908 

ROYAL  W.  DAVENPORT'S  permanent 
address  is  South  Leisure  World  Blvd.,  Silver 
Spring,  Maryland. 

1917 

CHARLES  HOLLERITH  has  moved 
from  Jackson,  Michigan  to  Columbia,  S.C. 

1923 

HAROLD  H.  JUDSON  is  retired  and 
living  in  San  Antonio,  Texas. 

1926 

RANDALL  P.  SAXTON  has  moved 
from  Shelton,  Conn.,  to  Green  Valley, 
Arizona. 

1927 

Having  retired  as  a  Rear  Admiral, 
USNR,  BRADFORD  M.  BOWKER  is  now 
self-employed  as  a  civil  engineer  in  Las 
Vegas,  Nevada.  .  .  RUSSELL  G.  WHITTE- 
MORE  was  the  author  of  an  article  entitled: 
"The  Nonlacerative  Windshield:  Not  an  Im- 
possible   Dream"    which    appeared    in    the 

E  WPI  JOURNAL 


JAMES  J.  SHEA,  SR.,  '12,  announced 
his  retirement  as  chairman  of  the  board  of 
Milton  Bradley  Co.,  East  Longmeadow, 
Mass.,  at  the  quarterly  board  of  directors 
meeting  held  in  December.  He  is  82  years 
old. 

The  internationally  known  manufac- 
turer of  educational  toys  was  elected  chair- 
man emeritus  by  the  board  of  directors 
assembled  at  the  meeting.  In  1968  when  he 
was  elevated  to  chairman  of  the  board,  his 
son,  James  J.  Shea,  Jr.,  was  elected  presi- 
dent. 

Mr.  Shea  is  credited  with  saving  the  firm 
from  bankruptcy  after  joining  it  as  president 
and  chief  executive  officer  in  1941 .  He  built 
the  games,  puzzles  and  educational  materials 
business  into  a  worldwide  corporation.  In- 
cluded in  the  corporation  are  Playskool 
Manufacturing  Co.,  Chicago,  Illinois;  South 


Bend  Toy  Manufacturing  Co.  of  Indiana; 
Amasco  Industries,  Inc.,  Warminster,  Pa.; 
and  Lisabeth  Whiting  Co.  of  Jamaica,  L.  I., 
N.Y.  Under  his  leadership  the  company 
founded  MB  International  in  Holland  and 
subsidiaries  in  West  Germany  and  France. 

In  1963  he  received  an  Honorary  Doctor 
of  Engineering  Degree  from  WPI.  Always  a 
strong  supporter  of  the  WPI  Alumni  As- 
sociation, he  was  awarded  the  Herbert  F. 
Taylor  Award  for  outstanding  service  to  the 
Alumni  Association  in  1967.  He  served  as 
president  of  the  Association  for  two  years 
and  was  on  the  Board  of  Trustees  for  ten. 
He  was  active  as  a  Connecticut  Valley 
Chapter  Officer,  as  a  member  of  the  Alumni 
Council,  Fund  Board,  Techni-Forum  and  as 
a  program  chairman  of  WPI's  Centennial 
Gifts  Campaign. 


25 


October  issue  of  the  magazine.  Class  Digest. 
In  the  article  the  author  states,  "It  is  our 
best  judgment  that  future  safer  windshield 
developments  will  not  alter  the  present 
replacement  market."  He  also  went  on  to 
say,  "The  newest  windshield  does  have  to  be 
handled  somewhat  more  carefully.  We 
should  all  realize  that  strength  and  safety  in 
windshield  performance  are  not  necessarily 
related,  and  our  purpose  has  been  primarily 
to  develop  a  safer  windshield."  Mr.  Whitte- 
more  is  director/product  development/auto- 
motive sales,  Glass  Division,  Pittsburgh  Plate 
Glass  Industries,  Inc.,  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 

1928 

Now  living  in  retirement,  JAMES  A. 
MacNABB  is  located  in  Palo  Alto,  Califor- 
nia. 

1930 

HERBERT  D.  BERRY  has  retired  as 
vice  president  of  the  Thomas  Smith  Co., 
Worcester.  He  lives  in  Westboro,  Mass.  .  .  At 
Southeastern  Massachusetts  University, 
North  Dartmouth,  Mass.,  it  was  recently 
announced  that  DR.  ELLIS  H.  WHITAKER 
of  the  biology  department  has  been  pro- 
moted from  associate  professor  to  full  pro- 
fessor. Dr.  Whitaker  has  been  at  SMU  since 
1964. 


1931 

IDOF  ANDERSON,  JR.,  writes  that  he 
is  retired  and  living  in  Sandwich,  Mass.  .  . 
Having  retired  as  Boston  district  manager  of 
the  Jones  &  Lamson  —  Waterbury  Farrel 
division  of  Textron,  JOHN  H.  HINCH- 
CLIFFE  now  resides  at  Hilton  Head  Island, 
South  Carolina.  .  .  HARRY  N.  TYLER 
presently  makes  his  home  in  Pocasset,  Mass. 


1932 

DR.  WILLIAM  E.  HANSON  has  retired 
as  senior  scientist  and  executive  of  the  Gulf 
Research  &  Development  Co.,  Pittsburgh, 
Pa.,  and  is  planning  to  move  to  the  state  of 
Washington.  Bill,  the  immediate  past  chair- 
man of  the  WPI  Board  of  Trustees,  was  a 
leader  in  the  development  and  adoption  of 
the  WPI  Plan  for  education.  He  served  for 
eleven  years  as  a  trustee  of  the  College, 
three  of  which  were  as  chairman  of  the 
board. 

1934 
E.     LOVELL     SMITH,    JR.    resides    in 


Farmington,  Conn. 

1935 

The  director,  secretary  and  treasurer  of 
Gilbarco  Canada  Ltd.,  Brockville,  Ontario,  is 
HAROLD  A.  LeDUC. 


1936 

EDWARD  V.  MONTVILLE  has  moved 
from  Pittsburgh,  Pa.,  to  Madison,  Conn.  .  . 
JOHN  H.  WYMAN  writes  that  he  has  retired 
from  his  position  as  sales  engineer  with 
Durakool,  Inc.,  Elkhart,  Indiana.  He  now 
lives  in  Augusta,  Maine. 

1937 

Brewsters  of  Hartford  has  named 
ROBERT  S.  DENNING  as  sales  manager.  He 
makes  his  home  in  Windsor,  Conn. 

1939 

Associate  Professor  of  mechanical  engi- 
neering HOWARD  DUCHACEK  is  on  leave 
from  the  University  of  Vermont,  which  is 
located  in  Burlington.  Until  August  of  1972 
his  address  will  be  Fort  Collins,  Colo.  .  . 
Allen-Bradley  Co.,  Framingham,  Mass.,  em- 
ploys JOHN  C.  HARVEY,  JR.,  sales  repre- 
sentative. He  resides  in  Wellesley  Hills.  .  . 
JOHN  P.  MOLONY,  manager  of  technical 
services  for  Wyman-Gordon's  Eastern  Divi- 
sion, Worcester,  Mass.,  has  been  named 
chairman  of  the  Technical  Council  of  the 
American  Society  for  Nondestructive 
Testing. 

1941 

NORMAN  G.  KLAUCKE  reports  that 
he  has  three  sons  in  college  this  year.  Doug 
is  now  at  the  University  of  Vermont  Medical 
School;  Jeff  is  a  junior  at  Cornell  and  Brad, 
the  youngest,  started  Dartmouth  last  Fall. 
Norm,  an  executive  with  the  Acme  Chain 
Division  of  North  American  Rockwell,  re- 
sides in  Granby,  Mass.,  and  has  a  summer 
home  in  South  Dennis.  ..  WILLIAM  R. 
HIGGINS  serves  as  head  mechanical  engi- 
neer for  Dresser  Machinery  Ltd.,  Tokyo, 
Japan. 


1944 

JOHN  E.  ("Ned")  BIGELOW,  manager 
of  the  Terminal  and  Display  Program  of  the 
Information  Physics  Branch  of  the  General 
Electric  Co.,  in  Schenectady,  N.Y.,  cele- 
brated 25  years  of  service  with  the  company 
on  November  5th.  Ned  joined  GE  in  1946  as 
a  development  engineer.  Later  he  became 
senior  engineer  in  the  X-Ray  Department 
and  manager  of  the  department's  Advanced 
Engineering  and  Consulting  Lab.  A  regis- 
tered professional  engineer,  he  is  a  senior 
member  of  IEEE  and  a  member  of  the 
Society  for  Information  Display  and  Sigma 
XI.  He  holds  24  patents.  .  .  A  Des  Plaines, 
Illinois  resident,  CHARLES  S.  COOPER, 
works  as  product  manager  (development) 
for  Precision  Scientific  Co.,  Chicago.  .  . 
FRED  S.  MOULTON  has  changed  his  ad- 
dress from  London,  England  to  Denver, 
Colorado. 


1945 

EUGENE  C.  LOGAN  of  Trenton,  N.J., 
has  been  promoted  to  chief  engineer  in  the 
gas  department  of  Public  Service  Electric  & 
Gas  Co.,  Newark,  N.J.  Prior  to  his  promo- 
tion he  served  as  assistant  chief  engineer. 


1946 

JOSEPH  J.  CONROY  reports  that  he 
has  been  plant  manager  at  Whitney  Blake  (a 
Superior  Continental  Co.)  since  March  of 
1971.  The  company  is  located  in  Hamden, 
Conn.  .  .  It  was  recently  announced  that 
JOHN  E.  LAFFEY  has  been  named  vice 
president  and  general  manager  of  the  Aus- 
tin-Western Division,  Clark  Equipment  Com- 
pany, Aurora,  Illinois.  The  new  vice  presi- 
dent has  had  an  extensive  background  of 
experience  in  the  heavy  construction  equip- 
ment industry.  He  served  as  eastern  regional 
manager  of  the  Harnischfeger  Corporation, 
manufacturer  of  cranes  and  shovels,  and 
general  sales  manager  of  the  J.  I.  Case 
Construction  Equipment  Division,  manufac- 
turer of  crawler  tractors  and  wheel  loaders. 
The  Clark  Equipment  Company  manufac- 
tures construction  and  material  handling 
equipment.  .  .  The  Farrel  Co.,  Rochester, 
N.Y.,  employs  ROBERT  C.  TAYLOR,  man- 
ager-process development,  who  resides  in 
Fairport,  N.Y.  .  .  CARL  F.  SIMON,  JR.,  has 
moved  to  Erie,  Pa.,  where  he  is  program 
engineer  for  the  General  Electric  Company. 


1947 

ROBERT  C.  MARK,  manager  of  em- 
ployee and  community  relations  at  General 
Electric's  Lynchburg  (Virginia)  operations 
since  1960,  was  recently  made  manager  of 
non-union  and  new  plant  relations.  He  has 
been  with  the  company  for  nearly  25 
years.  .  .  In  December  PAUL  D.  O'DON- 
NELL,  director  of  Manufacturing  Planning 
and  Controls  for  the  Westinghouse  Corpora- 
tion of  Pittsburgh,  was  graduated  from  the 
Advanced  Management  Program  of  the  Har- 
vard University  Graduate  School  of  Business 
Administration  in  Boston,  Mass.  .  .  A  Need- 
ham,  Mass.,  resident,  EDWARD  F.  SUPPLE, 
has  been  awarded  the  Chartered  Life  Under- 
writer designation  at  National  Conferment 
Excercises  of  the  American  College  of  Life 
Underwriters  in  Chicago.  He  is  a  special 
agent  for  the  Prudential  Insurance 
Company. 

1948 

Ingersoll  Rand  Co.,  Mayfield,  Ky.,  re- 
cently named  ARNE  A.  KELLSTROM  as 
marketing  manager.  .  .  JEROME  ECKER- 
MAN  writes  that  he  is  technical  manager  at 
NASA/Goddard  S.F.C..  Greenbelt,  Md.  His 
home  is  in  Potomac. 


26 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Art  Smith, 


Man  at  the  Top 


by  Lesley  E.  Small,  '72 


Over  the  years  there  has  evolved  the  popular  miscon- 
ception that  WPI  graduates  seldom  achieve  professional 
success  greater  than  the  level  of  "middle  management." 
Possibly  this  notion  stems  from  the  belief  that  a  Tech 
engineer's  education  is  too  parochial,  too  practical.  How- 
ever, the  careers  and  achievements  of  many  Tech  alumni 
serve  to  dispel  this  myth.  Indeed,  WPI  boasts  a  truly 
impressive  list  of  eminent  alumni. 

Among  the  noteworthy  of  Worcester  Tech's  highly 
successful  graduates  is  Arthur  E.  Smith,  Chairman  of  the 
Executive  Committee  of  the  United  Aircraft  Corporation  in 
Hartford,  Conn.  Mr.  Smith,  who  received  his  Bachelor  of 
Science  degree  in  Mechanical  Engineering  (aero-option)  in 
193  3,  began  his  career  as  a  test  engineer  for  International 
Motors  in  Allentown,  Pennsylvania.  Two  years  later  he 
joined  the  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  Company,  a  division  of 
United  Aircraft.  By  1956  he  was  the  Executive  Vice-Presi- 
dent of  Pratt  &  Whitney.  After  serving  as  president  of  the 
division  for  one  year,  he  became  in  1968,  the  executive 
vice-president  and  then  president  of  the  entire  United 
Aircraft  Corporation.  Mr.  Smith's  latest  achievement,  ap- 
pointment to  the  position  of  chairman  of  the  executive 
committee,  became  effective  as  of  September  27  of  this 
year. 

In  1967  WPI  presented  Smith  with  the  Robert  H. 
Goddard  Award,  which  is  given  annually  to  an  alumnus  for 
"outstanding  professional  accomplishment  in  his  field."  On 
June  8,  1969,  he  was  awarded  an  honorary  degree  of  doctor 
of  engineering  by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 

In  a  recent  interview  with  Mr.  Smith,  he  indicated  that 
he  feels  the  WPI  Plan  is  the  "right  approach  to  an 
engineering  education"  but  like  many  others,  he  seems  to 
be  withholding  enthusiasm  until  the  Plan  has  substantially 
proven  itself.  He  noted  that  the  success  or  failure  of  the 
Plan  rests  largely  with  the  individual  advisors  —  and  most 
especially  with  the  problem  of  motivation.  Mr.  Smith  also 
indicated  that  communication  must  play  a  key  role  in  the 
success  of  the  Plan.  He  feels  that  the  school  has  a 
responsibility  to  better  acquaint  both  the  alumni  and  the 
business  world  with  the  workings  of  the  Plan. 

As  far  as  the  role  of  the  alumni  is  concerned,  Arthur 
Smith    maintains    that   they   have    an    obligation   "to  give 

Reprinted  from  Tecb  News. 


financial  support"  and  "to  take  part  in  the  direction  of  the 
school."  He  feels  however  that  the  alumni  should  not 
attempt  to  "run"  the  school.  On  the  other  hand,  he  feels 
that  the  students  should  not  run  the  school  either.  When 
asked  how  he  felt  about  having  a  student  member  on  the 
Board  of  Trustees,  Mr.  Smith  said  that  "a  student  does  not 
belong  as  a  voting  member,"  but  that  there  should  be  a 
student  advisory  group  to  insure  that  the  Trustees  are  aware 
of  student  concerns  and  opinions.  He  stated  that  it  is  "hard 
(for  students)  to  be  objective  about  the  long-term  interests" 
of  the  school. 

In  another  vein  of  conversation,  Mr.  Smith  expressed 
the  belief  that  athletics  play  an  important  role  in  the 
shaping  of  the  individual,  for  it  is  through  organized  sport 
that  one  learns  not  only  how  to  get  along  with  people  but 
also  to  accept  failures  along  with  success. 

When  asked  to  what  he  attributed  his  great  success,  Mr. 
Smith  said,  "I  suppose  you'd  like  me  to  say  my  education 
from  WPI?  After  assuring  him  that,  all  that  was  wanted  was 
an  honest  answer,  he  agreed  that  WPI  had  given  him  an 
excellent  background  but  that  he  attributed  his  success  to  a 
lot  of  hard  work  and  a  little  bit  of  being  in  the  right  place 
at  the  right  time. 

Smith  further  stated  that  five  years  after  graduation, 
where  you  are  is  determined  largely  by  what  you  have  done 
on  the  job  and  not  so  much  by  what  you  did  in  school.  He 
feels  that  the  education  itself  is  of  greatest  importance  in 
getting  offers  and  opening  the  right  doors. 

Mr.  Smith  does  not  feel  that  the  engineers  should  have 
to  take  all  the  blame  for  the  ecological  problems  of  today. 
"Engineers  have  always  responded  to  what  the  public 
wants."  Now  that  the  emphasis  is  on  clean  air  and  clean 
water,  Smith  is  assured  that  the  engineers  will  respond,  but 
that  there  is  bound  to  be  a  time  lag.  According  to  Smith, 
"People  know  what  they  want  but  are  not  able  to  evaluate 
what  they  want  to  pay  for  it." 

Smith  is  a  warm  and  personable  man  who  remains 
unaffected  by  his  tremendous  achievements.  Talking  to  Art 
Smith  is  like  talking  to  the  man  next-door.  He  is  truly  a 
credit  to  himself  and  a  credit  to  WPI. 


E  WPI  JOURNAL 


27 


ROBERT  F.  STEWART,  '50,  former 
vice  president  of  Litton  Industries,  Inc., 
Hartford,  Conn.,  has  been  named  president 
of  the  Industrial  Products  Group  of  North 
American  Rockwell  Corp.,  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  In 
addition  to  being  president  of  a  group,  Mr. 
Stewart  will  also  be  nominated  as  a  corpo- 
rate vice  president  at  the  next  meeting  of 
NR's  board  of  directors. 

The  Industrial  Products  Group  which  he 
now  heads  had  sales  in  the  fiscal  year  ended 
September  30,  1971  of  about  $435  million, 
or  nearly  20  per  cent  of  total  company 
sales.  It  is  one  of  four  major  groups  at  l\IR, 
the  others  being  the  aerospace,  automotive 
and  electronics  groups.  It  makes  and 
markets  a  wide  variety  of  products  including 
printing  and  textile  machinery,  gears  and 
other  power  transmission  products,  mechan- 
ical controls,  filters,  general  aviation  aircraft 
and  pleasure  boats. 

Mr.  Stewart  was  president  of  Royal 
Typewriter  Co.,  Hartford,  Conn.,  a  Litton 
Industries  company,  in  1969  and  1970.  He 
left  Royal  to  take  charge  of  Litton's  Ma- 
chine Tool  Group  in  Hartford,  which  in- 
cluded New  Britain  Machine  Co.  Prior  to 
joining  Litton  in  1964  he  had  been  presi- 
dent of  the  Gabriel  Electronics  Division  of 
Maremont  Corp.,  Millis,  Mass. 

The  WPI  Alumni  Association  awarded 
him  the  Robert  H.  Goddard  Award  for  his 
outstanding  professional  achievements  in 
June  of  1971.  It  is  the  highest  professional 
achievement  award  given  by  the 
Association. 

Active  in  community  affairs,  Mr.  Stew- 
art is  a  director  of  the  Greater  Hartford 
Chamber  of  Commerce,  the  Manufacturer's 
Association  of  Hartford  County,  and  the 
Society  for  Savings  in  Hartford.  He  is  also  a 
member  of  the  Economic  Club  of  New  York 
and  a  corporator  of  the  Institute  of  Living, 
Hartford. 


1949 

Attorney  EDWIN  E.  KAARELA  was 
officially  notified  in  November  that  he  had 
been  appointed  as  a  Finnish  consul.  He  was 
informed  of  his  appointment  by  the  Finnish 
Ambassador  to  the  United  States,  Olavi 
Munkki,  the  document  of  appointment 
being  accepted  on  behalf  of  the  United 
States  by  Secretary  of  State  William  Rogers. 
Mr.  Kaarela,  who  has  served  as  honorary 
vice-consul  of  Finland  since  1963,  lives  with 
his  wife  and  three  children  in  Westminster, 
Mass. 

1950 

HAMMOND  ROBERTSON,  a  member 
of  the  Queensbury  (N.Y.)  Town  Board  since 
1964,  was  honored  at  a  testimonial  dinner 
in  October.  The  affair  was  co-sponsored  by 
the  Queensbury  Republican  Committee  and 
Republican  Club.  Mr.  Robertson,  who  is 
now  located  in  Lincoln,  N.H.,  had  served  as 
a  director  of  industrial  relations  for  Finch, 
Pruyn  and  Company,  Inc.,  of  Glens  Falls, 
N.Y. 


1952 

H.  BURTON  RENDALL  has  employ- 
ment as  a  product  service  engineer  with 
Ethyl  Corp.,  Houston,  Texas.  .  .  GEORGE 
H.  SANDERSON  writes  that  he  is  still  with 
Sperry  Gyroscope,  Great  Neck,  N.Y.,  and 
enjoying  his  job  as  senior  research  section 
supervisor.  His  two  daughters  are  now  in 
school  and  he  and  his  wife  are  interested  in 
helping  to  make  their  local  educational 
system  more  "creative".  .  .  The  vice  presi- 
dent of  Incoterm  Corp.,  Marlboro,  Mass.,  is 
EDGAR  L.  VAN  COTT,  who  lives  in 
Weston. 

1953 

G.  RAYMOND  POLEN  resides  in  Parsip- 
pany,  N.J.,  and  serves  as  senior  development 
engineer  for  Boonton  Electronics  Corpora- 
tion. .  .  The  board  of  overseers  of  the 
Foundation  for  the  Advancement  of  Grad- 
uate Study  in  Engineering  at  Newark  Col- 
lege of  Engineering  announced  in  November 
that  DR.  ARNOLD  ALLENTUCH  has  been 
appointed  director  of  research  at  the 
college.  Dr.  Allentuch  is  a  professor  of 
mechanical  engineering  at  NCE  and  will 
maintain  that  rank  on  the  faculty.  Active  in 
research  and  the  development  of  graduate 
courses  at  the  college,  he  has  centered  his 
personal  research  in  ihe  area  of  hydrostat- 
ically-loaded,  stiffened  cylinders.  His  work 
has  been  supported  by  the  Office  of  Naval 
Research  under  contracts  totaling  more  than 
3100,000  since  he  joined  NCE.  .  .  JOHN  F. 
MITCHELL,  a  science  teacher  at  North 
Attleboro  (Mass.)  High  School,  has  been 
hired    by    the    North    Attleboro    Board    of 


Health  as  the  town's  new  full-time  health 
agent.  His  duties  will  include  responsibility 
for  the  administration  of  local  and  state 
health  regulations  and  laws. 

1954 

DONALD  E.  ROSS,  operations  manager 
of  the  Split  Ballbearing  Division  of  MPB 
Corporation,  Lebanon,  N.H.,  has  been 
named  to  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the 
National  Bank  of  Lebanon.  Mr.  Ross,  who 
has  a  background  in  manufacturing  sales, 
production  and  management,  is  a  past  presi- 
dent of  the  Lebanon  Chamber  of  Com- 
merce, member  of  the  executive  board  of 
the  Daniel  Webster  Council,  Boy  Scouts  of 
America,  and  Mary  Hitchcock  Memorial 
Hospital  Corporation.  He  is  also  a  director 
of  the  New  Hampshire  Technical  Institute  in 
Concord,  N.H.,  and  holds  memberships  in 
the  American  Ordnance  Association  and  the 
American  Helicopter  Association. 


1955 

It  was  recently  announced  that 
CHARLES  F.  McDONOUGH  of  Bridge- 
water,  N.J.,  would  be  chairman  of  the 
special  gifts  department  for  the  1972  United 
Fund,  Somerset  Valley  campaign.  Mr. 
McDonough  has  been  associated  with  the 
American  Cyanamid  Co.,  Bound  Brook, 
N.J.,  for  the  past  14  years  and  is  currently 
assistant  to  the  manager.  Refinery  Chemi- 
cals Department. 

1956 

RICHARD  N.  BAZINET  is  currently 
located  in  Houston,  Texas,  where  he  is 
employed  by  Singer,  General  Precision, 
Inc.  .  .  EDWIN  B.COGHLIN,JR.,of  Shrews- 
bury, Mass.,  has  been  elected  commissioner 
of  the  Mohegan  Council,  Boy  Scouts  of 
America.  Also  elected  to  the  council  board 
of  directors  was  DR.  RICHARD  BESCHLE, 
'50,  of  Auburn,  Mass.  ..  HENRY  J. 
DUMAS,  JR.,  is  the  new  senior  vice  presi- 
dent of  MFE  Corporation,  Wilmington, 
Mass.  .  .  In  November  1971  the  Hatco 
Chemical  Division  of  W.  R.  Grace  &  Co. 
announced  the  appointment  of  JOSEPH  G. 
WAHL  as  sales  manager.  The  firsm  is  located 
in  Fords,  N.J. 

1957 

DR.  JOHN  M.  MATUSZEK,  JR.  has 
been  named  director  of  the  Radiological 
Sciences  Lab.,  New  York  State  Department 
of    Health,    Albany,    N.Y.    He    resides    in 

Del  mar. 

1958 

JAMES  K.  KARALEKAS,  East  Provi- 
dence City  Traffic  Engineer,  presided  at  the 
Rhode  Island  WPI  Alumni  Chapter  meeting 
held   in    November  at  Seekonk.  He  lives  in 


28 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Vlumni  Fund  Progress  Report: 

Richard  F.  Burke,  Jr.,  '38,  Chairman  of  the  Alumni  Fund  Board,  reported  at  the 
mid-winter  meeting  of  the  Board  that  the  1971-72  Alumni  Fund  was  well  organized  with 
over  300  alumni  volunteers  visiting  or  calling  alumni  throughout  the  country.  Burke 
further  explained  that  this  is  a  unique  year  in  that  every  fund  gift  which  shows  an 
increase  will  be  matched  to  the  amount  of  the  increase  by  the  Challenge  Fund.  He  said 
early  returns  show: 

Total  Cash:  $107,666.30 

Total  Additional  Pledges:  $29,376.08 

Total  Contributors:  1,409 

%  Participation:  14.7% 

Average  Gift:  $97.26 
Burke  went  on  to  comment  that  several  leadership  gifts  have  been  received  from 
several  groups,  including: 
Alumni  Trustees: 

%  Participation:  76.2% 

Average  Gift:  $1,179.94 
Alumni  Association  Executive  Committee: 

%  Participation:  77.8% 

Average  Gift:  $600.00 
Alumni  Fund  Board: 

%  Participation:  100% 

Average  Gift:  $206.00 
Faculty  Alumni: 

%  Participation:  82.6% 

Average  Gift:  $73.82 
Walter  J.  Charow,  '49,  Chairman  of  the  Special  Gifts  Program  which  has  organized 
personal  solicitation  in  the  Northeast  and  Los  Angeles,  reported  that  his  program  showed 
the  following  level  of  activity: 

%  Participation:  27.4 

Average  Gift:  $447.13 
When  interviewed,  Charow  stated  that  the  Special  Gift  Committees  were  seeking  gifts  at 
the  $300  level  and  above.  He  went  on  to  state  that  when  alumni  fully  understood  the 
priorities  before  WPI  and  the  need  for  alumni  support  that  his  volunteers  were  met  with 
warm  and  generous  support. 


Special  Gifts  Region 

Worcester 

Boston 

Connecticut  Valley 

Hartford 

New  Haven 

Rhode  Island 

New  York 

Northern  New  Jersey 

Washington 

Los  Angeles 


Chairman 
Francis  W.  Madigan,  Jr.,  '53 
James  E.  Rich,  '51 
William  W.  Asp,  '32 
Robert  M.  Taft,  '38 
Charles  W.  McElroy,  '34 
Manuel  Renasco,  '46 
Spiro  L.  Vrusho,  '57 
Waldo  E.  Bass,  '33 
Leonard  G.  Humphrey,  Jr.,  '35 
Donald  R.  Bates,  '40 

Phonothons  were  reported  as  being  a  new  mechanism  of  follow-up  solicitation  and 
Mr.  Burke  noted  that  this  program  was  being  organized  by  Howard  I.  Nelson,  '54.  Nelson 
briefly  noted  that  an  enthusiastic  team  of  volunteers  had  been  enlisted  and  would  be 
conducting  phonothons  on  the  following  schedule: 

Chairman 
Peter  H.  Horstmann,  '55 
Daniel  J.  Maguire,  '66 
Gabriel  O.  Bedard,  '28 
Joseph  J.  Conroy,  Jr.,  '46 
Spiro  L.  Vrusho,  '57 
Kenneth  A.  Homon,  '62 
John  H.  Geffken,  '63 

Clifford  H.  Daw,  Jr.,  '59 
Donald  M.  McNamara,  '55 

In  conclusion,  Burke  praised  the  hard  work  of  the  alumni  volunteers  working  on  the 
program,  and  voiced  his  opinion  that  their  hard  work  would  produce  a  fund  of  record 
size  by  its  completion  date. 


Date 

Location 

February    7-8 

Worcester 

9-10 

Boston 

14-15 

Springfield,  Mass. 

16-17 

New  Haven 

22-23 

New  York  City 

23-24 

Washington 

28-29 

Buffalo 

March    1-2 

San  Francisco 

6-7 

Pittsburgh 

Riverside.  .  .  ROBERT  P.  MICHAUD  works 
as  associate  airport  development  specialist 
for  the  New  York  State  Department  of 
Transportation,  Albany.  His  home  is  located 
in  Guilderland,  N.Y.  .  .  Kewaunee  Scientific 
Engineering  Corp.  of  Adrian,  Michigan,  has 
announced  that  J.  CLIFFORD  WIERSMA  is 
now  vice  president  and  sales  manager  of  the 
corporation. 

1959 

Born:  To  Dr.  and  Mrs.  JOSEPH  D. 
BRONZINO,  a  daughter,  Marcella  Jo 
("Marcy"!,  on  October  27,  1971.  Joe  is  an 
associate  professor  in  the  engineering  de- 
partment at  Trinity  College,  Hartford, 
Conn.  He  and  his  family  reside  in  Simsbury. 

1960 

Shell  Chemical  Company,  Industrial 
Chemicals/Petrochemicals,  has  made  JAMES 
R.  BUCHANAN  district  manager.  The  new 
manager  makes  his  home  in  Cherry  Hill, 
N.J.  .  .  WILLIAM  J.  PALMER  writes  that  he 
is  manager  of  engineering  for  Jewell  Elec- 
tronic Instruments,  Manchester,  N.H.  He 
lives  in  Bedford. 

1961 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  LARRY 
ISRAEL,  a  daughter,  liana  Beth,  on  October 
6,  1971.  Larry  is  president  of  Visualtek 
which  is  located  in  Santa  Monica,  Calif. 

The  University  of  Virginia  Reactor 
Facility,  Charlottesville,  Va.,  has  added 
HAROLD  W.  BERK,  physicist,  to  its 
staff.  .  .  DR.  JAY  A.  FOX,  who  received  a 
PhD  in  Physics  from  the  University  of  South 
Carolina  last  year,  has  employment  as  a 
physicist  on  the  staff  of  the  U.S.  Army 
Mobility  Equipment  Research  and  Develop- 
ment Center,  Fort  Belvoir,  Virginia.  .  .  A 
Glastonbury,  Conn.,  resident,  RICHARD  L. 
HOLDEN,  has  been  appointed  Chairman  of 
District  II  for  the  Republican  party.  Em- 
ployed as  a  research  engineer  at  United 
Aircraft  Research  Laboratory,  he  is  cur- 
rently vice-chairman  of  the  Citizens  Ad- 
visory Committee  and  is  a  radio  officer  for 
Glastonbury  Civil  Defense.  ..  SVEND  E. 
PELCH  serves  as  manager  of  business  plan- 
ning for  the  International  Paper  Co.,  New 
York,  N.Y.  His  residence  is  in  Northport. 

1962 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  BRADFORD  J. 
BOOKER,  their  first  child,  a  daughter, 
Pamela  Jean,  on  October  4,  1971.  Brad  is  a 
design  engineer  with  Hamilton  Standard,  a 
division  of  United  Aircraft  Corporation  in 
Windsor  Locks,  Conn. 

RICHARD  W.  FROST  has  been  pro- 
moted from  assistant  to  superintendent  un- 
derground lines  to  assistant  superintendent 
overhead  lines  at  Narragansett  Electric  Co., 
Providence,     R.I.  ..  ROBERT     R.     CASSA- 


WPI  JOURNAL 


29 


NELLI  of  Yorktown  Heights,  N.Y.,  has 
been  awarded  a  patent  of  his  work  in  the 
development  of  a  process  for  multiple 
layered  gelatin  desserts.  He  is  a  group  leader 
in  the  Jell-0  research  division  at  General 
Foods'  technical  center  in  Tarrytown.  .  . 
THOMAS  J.  MERCHANT  is  appointed  to  a 
newly  created  position  of  environmental 
and  safety  coordinator  at  Bay  State 
Abrasives  Division  of  Dresser  Industries, 
Westboro,  Mass.  Company  officials  say  that 
Mr.  Merchant's  assignment  puts  the  firm  in  a 
position  to  act  directly  on  all  legislation 
relating  to  pollution  control,  occupational 
health  and  safety  and  other  related  fields. 
The  Westboro  resident  is  also  a  town  select- 
man and  previously  served  as  chairman  of 
the  advisory  finance  committee.  .  .  Texas 
Instruments  of  Attleboro,  Mass.  employs 
PAUL  L.  WESTERLIND,  manufacturing 
engineer,  who  resides  in  North  Attleboro. 

1963 

DOMINIC  J.  BUCCA  who  is  manager  of 
purchases  at  Jamesbury  Corp.,  Worcester, 
Mass.,  makes  his  home  in  West  Boylston.  .  . 
The  new  general  foreman  of  chemical  pro- 
duction for  the  Uniroyal  Chemical  Division 
of  Uniroyal,  Inc.,  is  JOSEPH  V.  BUC- 
CIAGLIA,  Beacon  Falls,  Conn.  Mr. 
Bucciaglia  has  been  with  the  Naugatuck  firm 
since  his  graduation  from  WPI  and  is  past 
vice  president  of  the  Uniroyal  Chemical 
Management  Club.  .  .  DAVID  R.  EKSTROM 
reports  that  he  is  manager-equipment  prod- 
uct development  for  Kenics,  Danvers, 
Mass.  .  .  NORMAN  FINEBURG  received  his 
law  degree  from  Boston  University  Law 
School  in  1971  and  now  serves  as  a  judicial 
law  clerk  for  the  Supreme  Court  of  Con- 
necticut in  Hartford.  He  makes  his  home  in 
Farmington.  .  .  The  Rodney  Hunt  Co.  of 
Orange,  Mass.  has  appointed  MICHAEL  A. 
LITTIZZIO  as  manager,  manufacturing  serv- 


ices. He  will  be  responsible  for  directing  and 
coordinating  the  services  of  maintenance, 
inspection,  shipping  and  industrial  engineer- 
ing on  a  company-wide  basis.  Until  recently 
he  was  a  unit  manager  in  Ashland  at  the 
General  Electric  plant.  .  .  Raytheon,  North 
Dighton,  Mass.  employs  JAMES  J. 
MAGALDI,  facilities  supervisor.  His  resi- 
dence is  in  Easton.  .  .  ROBERT  M. 
MALBON  writes  that  he  is  in  the  Peace 
Corps.  His  residence  is  in  Los  Altos,  Califor- 
nia. .  .  Among  the  instructors  at  the  business 
management  seminar  sponsored  by  the 
Leominster  (Mass.)  Chamber  of  Commerce 
last  fall  was  PETER  A.  MICHAELIAN, 
personnel  director  at  Foster  Grant  Co., 
Inc.  .  .  KENNETH  OLSEN,  a  student  at 
New  York  University  Law  School,  also 
works  as  an  engineer  for  Ebasco  Services, 
Inc.,  New  York.  Kenny  lives  in  Brook- 
lyn. .  .  Transportation  analyst  for  Washing- 
ton Metropolitan  Area  Transit  Authority, 
Washington,  D.C.  is  ROBERT  A.  PICKETT 
.  .  .  GORDON  M.  WARE  studies  at  the 
School  of  Architecture  at  the  University  of 
Oregon  which  is  located  in  Eugene,  Oregon. 

1964 

Married:  PETER  P.  BURKOTT,  JR., 
and  Miss  Diana  A.  Blandford  on  October  9, 
1971  in  Brewster,  N.Y.  The  bridegroom  is  a 
development  engineer  for  the  Norden  Divi- 
sion of  United  Aircraft  Corporation,  Nor- 
walk,  Conn. 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  ANTHONY 
CROCE,  a  daughter,  Daniella,  on  June  10, 
1971.  The  new  father  is  still  employed  by 
the  U.S.  Army  Weapons  Command  in  Rock 
Island,  Illinois.  He  and  his  family  make  their 
home  in  Davenport,  Iowa. 

RONALD  J.  ANASTASI  has  been 
named  assistant  director  of  Magnolia  Manor, 
a  health  spa  located  in  Gloucester,  Mass. 
Previously    he    was    with    the    Woods    Hole 


MORGAN 
CONSTRUCTION  CO, 

ENGINEERS  Si  MANUFACTURERS 
WORCESTER,  MASSACHUSETTS  01605 


30 


Oceanographic  Institute,  an  assistant  execu- 
tive   director   for    Scientology   Coordinated 
Services,    Los   Angeles,  Calif.,  and  an   effi- 
ciency     expert      for      Seafood      Kitchens, 
Gloucester.  .  .  ALLEN   W.  CASE,  JR.,  who 
was  recently  promoted  to  project  engineer 
for  General  Electric  Company,  Schenectady, 
N.Y.,  lives  in  Scotia.  .  .  The  New  York  firm 
of    Davis,  Hoxie,  Faithfull  &  Hapgood  em- 
ploys    ALFRED     H.     HEMINGWAY,    JR., 
patent    attorney.    Alfred    lives    on    Staten 
Island.  .  .  DAVID   G.  LARRABEE  is  a  stu- 
dent at  the  University  of  California,  Berke- 
ley.  He   lives   in   Albany,  Calif.  .  .  The  vice     I 
president  and  treasurer   of  Community  In- 
formation   Systems,   Chaska,  Minnesota,  is    I 
BRIAN    SINDER.  .  .  DR.   JOHN    A.  SPEN- 
CER  is  an  assistant  chemistry  professor  at    | 
Southern    Illinois    University,    Edwardsville, 
III.  .  .  DR.    PETER  C.  TROMBI   writes  that    I 
he    is   a    member  of  the   Institute  for  Ad- 
vanced     Study,    School     of     Mathematics, 
Princeton,    N.J.  .  .  USAF    CAPTAIN   PAUL    I 
B.  WATSON  is  on  duty  at  Cam  Ranh  Bay 
AB,  Vietnam.  He  serves  as  an  air  operations 
officer   and    is   assigned   to   a    unit   of   the 
Pacific    Air     Forces,    headquarters    for    air    I 
operations  in  Southeast  Asia,  the  Far  East 
and  Pacific  area. 

1965 

Akron    resident  JAMES    B.   CALVIN  is 
currently  working  toward  a  PhD  in  clinical 
psychology  at  Kent  State  University,  Kent, 
Ohio.  .  .  STEPHEN   L.  CLOUES  now  holds 
the    position    of    regional    planner    for   the     I 
Central  Midlands  Regional  Planning  Council, 
Columbia,     S.C.     He    recently    received    a     | 
Master    of    Planning    Degree    from    Georgia 
Institute  of  Technology.  .  .  LAWRENCE  A.    I 
HILL  is  a  science  teacher  at  Nashoba  Re- 
gional High  School,  Bolton,  Mass.  He  lives  in 
Lunenburg.  .  .  The    Mechanical     Drive    Tur-    I 
bine   Products    Dept.,  General   Electric  Co., 
Fitchburg,    Mass.,    employs    KENNETH    J. 
HULTGREN  as  a  turbine  controls  engineer 
...In    1971    PETER    E.    OBERBECK    was 
awarded  a  PhD  EE  from  the  University  of 
Illinois.  He  is  associated  with  the  National 
Cash  Register  Company  in  Dayton,  Ohio.  .  . 
RICHARD    S.    OLSON,    vice    president    - 
development    for     National     Realty     Enter- 
prises, Inc.,  Pittsburgh,  Pa.,  resides  in  Bethel 
Park.  .  .  DR.   DAVID  M.  SCHWABER,  who    I 
received   his    PhD   from   the   University   of 
Akron    in    1971,   is  with    Monarch    Rubber 
Co.,  Inc.,  of  Baltimore,  Md.  .  .  MICHAEL  D. 
SHAPIRO  serves  as  a  chemical  engineer  at 
The    Naval     Explosive    Ordnance    Disposal    | 
Facility  at  Indian  Head,  Md.  Oxon  Hill  is  his 
home. 

1966 

Married:    STEWART    W.    NELSON    to 
Miss  Carol  Ann  Cruz  in  November  1971  at    | 
Holyoke,  Mass.   Mr.  Nelson  is  a  sales  engi-    I 
neer  with  The  Trane  Co.,  Boston. 

THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Engineering  .  .  .  . 
for  a  world  in  need 


As  living  becomes  more  competitive  .  .  .  more  compact  .  .  .  and 
more  complex,  the  world  looks  with  increasing  frequency  to  science 
and  engineering  for  creative  solutions  to  its  wants  and  to  its  needs. 
And  at  the  Heald  Machine  Division  of  Cincinnati  Milacron,  creative 
research  and  development  engineers  thrive  on  the  daily  challenge  to 
provide  the  metalworking  industry  with  more  productive,  more  effi- 
cient and  more  reliable  machine  tools. 


In  the  past,  Heald  has  traditionally 
produced  machines  which  have  in 
many  cases  surpassed  industry's 
needs,  but  the  demands  are  be- 
coming greater  as  the  challenge 
continues.  So  Heald  engineers  con- 
tinue to  explore  new  techniques 
and  to  design  modern  machine 
tools  that  reflect  fresh  ideas  and 
creative  thinking. 

The  results  of  this  kind  of  engi- 
neering can  be  seen  in  the  Heald 
products  of  today.  Numerically 
Controlled  Acracenters  and  Bore- 
matics    that    literally    "think    for 


themselves"  while  producing  bet- 
ter quality  parts  in  far  less  time. 
Heald  Controlled  Force  internal 
grinders  prove  themselves  as  lead- 
ers by  consistently  attaining  new 
levels  of  productivity  and  quality. 

Heald's  newest  development,  a 
rotary  electro-chemical  machining 
process,  offers  industry  a  practical 
way  to  perform  precision  machin- 
ing operations  on  "difficult  to  ma- 
chine" conductive  materials  such 
as  high  strength,  high  temperature 
alloys.  Using  electro-chemical  ma- 
chining, stock  removal   rates  are 


unaffected  by  material  hardness  so 
production  rates  are  substantially 
increased. 

The  continuation  of  this  type  of 
creative  thinking  and  fresh  ideas 
will  be  spurred  on  by  the  chal- 
lenge of  the  1970's  and  the  need 
to  meet  the  ever-changing  require- 
ments of  our  shrinking  world. 


CINCINNATI 
MILACRON 

Heald  Machine  Division 
Worcester,  Mass.  01606 


EDWARD  S.  BILZERIAN,  Worcester, 
controller  for  Bay  State  Abrasives  Division 
of  Dresser  Industries,  Westboro,  Mass.,  is  the 
new  president  of  the  Worcester  Area 
Chapter,  National  Association  of  Account- 
ants. .  .  Speedring  Systems  —  Division  of 
Schiller  Industries,  Warren,  Michigan,  has 
recently  given  JOHN  H.  CAROSELLA  the 
position  of  senior  project  engineer.  John 
and  his  family  now  live  in  Rochester, 
Michigan.  ..  DR.  JAMES  I.  JOUBERT  is 
employed  as  chemical  research  engineer  for 
the  U.S.  Bureau  of  Mines,  Pittsburgh  Energy 
Research  Center,  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  .  .  A  native 
of  Whitinsville,  Mass.,  DAVID  LONGMUIR, 
has  been  named  vice  president  of  industrial 
relations  of  White  Consolidated  Industries, 
Inc.,  Cleveland,  Ohio.  Prior  to  his  pro- 
motion, Mr.  Longmuir  was  regional  director 
of  industrial  relations  for  the  corpora- 
tion ..  DR.  MALCOLM  A.  MacGREGOR 
was  recently  awarded  a  resident  research 
associateship  at  the  Naval  Research  Labora- 
tory, Washington,  D.C.  He  will  conduct 
research  in  the  chemistry  division  of  the 
laboratory.  Prior  to  his  appointment  he  was 
a  research  associate  at  the  University  of 
Chicago.  .  .  DR.  MARTIN  J.  MASTROI- 
ANNI  is  a  postdoctoral  research  associate 
for   Oak   Ridge   National    Lab.,   Oak  Ridge, 


Tenn.  .  .  The  new  town  planner  for  Vernon, 
Conn.,  is  JOSEPH  J.  PASTIC  who  was  until 
recently  a  Captain  with  the  U.S.  Army  in 
Germany.  His  work  in  the  Army  was  learn- 
ing "how  to  allocate  shortages,"  he  noted,  a 
problem  also  apparent  in  civilian  life.  Pastic 
has  a  wife  and  three  children. 

1967 

Married:  DAVID  A.  SALAD  to  Miss 
Bonny  Beth  Nezvesky  on  October  17,  1971 
in  Fairfield,  Connecticut.  David  is  an  ac- 
countant with  Drug  City  of  Watertown.  .  . 
ROBERT  D.  RENN  and  Miss  Nancy  Diane 
DelVecho  on  December  5,  1971  in  New 
London,  Connecticut.  The  groom  is  super- 
visor of  production  and  direct  labor  plan- 
ning at  General  Dynamics  Corp.,  Quincy 
(Mass.)  Shipyard. 

ROBERT  J.  BARON  has  been  employed 
by  the  Division  of  Compliance,  Environ- 
mental Protection  Agency,  Research 
Triangle  Park,  N.C...  Chief  Civil  Engineer 
RICHARD  F.  DeFALCO  is  associated  with 
the  Commonwealth  Survey  Corp.  and  makes 
his  home  in  Worcester.  .  .  RAYMOND  J. 
FORTIN  of  the  Mitre  Corp.  (Bedford, 
Mass.)  technical  staff  lives  in  Waltham, 
Mass.  .  .  U.S.  Army  CAPTAIN  EDWARD  A. 
GALLO,    who   is   now   serving   in   the   Ord- 


nance Corp.  in  Vietnam,  received  his  MS  in 
mathematics  from  the  University  of  Texas 
at  El  Paso  last  August.  .  .  GLEN  R. 
PARATH  is  with  Ostrow  Electric  of 
Worcester,  Mass.  .  .  GARY  K.  WILLIS  is  a 
candidate  for  one  of  two  three-year  terms 
on  the  School  Committee,  Mansfield,  Mass. 
He  is  president  of  the  Citizens  Scholarship 
Foundation  and  a  sales  engineer  for  Bailey 
Meter  Co.,  Boston. 

1968 

Married:  VICTOR  V.  C  A  LAB  R  ETTA, 
JR.  and  Miss  Judith  Anne  Reynolds  in 
Davisville,  R.I.  on  October  9,  1971.  The 
bridegroom  is  a  graduate  assistant  at  WPI. 
He  and  his  bride  make  their  home  in 
Attleboro,  Mass. 

Currently  serving  as  a  system  test  engi- 
neer with  the  U.S.  Army  Strategic  Com- 
munication Command  at  Ft.  Hauchuca, 
Arizona,  LT.  LUCIANO  J.  COVATI  expects 
to  be  transferred  to  Switzigin,  Germany  in 
the  near  future.  .  .  GEORGE  F.  GAMACHE 
is  assistant  project  manager  for  the  Beacon 
Construction  Co.,  Worcester,  Mass.  .  .  Now 
at  the  University  of  Illinois,  BERTON  H. 
GUNTER  writes:  "I  wish  you  (WPI)  every 
success  in  this  new  money  campaign.  WPI  — 
small,  unassuming  and  quiet  —  has  a  great 


E  WPI  JOURNAL 


31 


deal  to  offer,  and  it  would  be  tragic  if,  for 
want  of  money,  it  could  not  continue  to 
provide  the  sort  of  education  and  atmos- 
phere which  I  found  invaluable."  Bert  re- 
sides in  Urbana.  .  .  LAWRENCE  E.  JOHN- 
SON works  as  a  systems  programmer  for  the 
WPI  Computer  Center.  .  .  Although  he  re- 
sides in  Milford,  Conn.,  GARY  N.  KEELER 
serves  as  a  systems  representative  for  RCA, 
Data  Processing  Division,  which  is  located  in 
Fairfield.  ..  DR.  ROGER  L.  LUDIN  is 
presently  employed  as  an  assistant  professor 
at  Burlington  County  College,  Pemberton, 
N.J.  Medford  is  his  home.  ..  WILLIAM  J. 
KRIKORIAN  has  been  discharged  from 
active  duty  in  Vietnam  and  is  returning  to 
his  previous  civilian  employer,  Metcalf  & 
Eddy,  Inc.,  Boston,  where  he  will  serve  as  a 
structural  engineer.  .  .  WALTER  C. 

LYNICK,  who  was  recently  with  the  U.S. 
Army  Corps  of  Engineers,  has  returned  to 
work  for  the  New  York  State  Department 
of  Transportation,  Region  I,  Albany, 
N.Y.  ..ANDREW  L.  PIRETTI,  an  MBA 
student  at  the  University  of  Massachusetts, 
resides  in  Holyoke.  ..  Still  employed. by 
Pratt  and  Whitney  Aircraft  as  an  experi- 
mental test  engineer.  ..  WILLIAM  D. 
POULIN  has  moved  from  Riviera  Beach  to 
West  Palm  Beach,  Florida. 


1969 

Married:  RICHARD  C.  CARLSON  to 
Miss  Judith  E.  Noyes  on  November  7  in 
Walpole,  Massachusetts.  Richard  is  a  civil 
engineer  with  the  U.S.  Army  Corps  of 
Engineers,  New  England  Division,  Waltham. 
The  newlyweds  reside  in  North  Easton, 
Mass.  .  .  JAMES  L.  RICHEY,  JR.  and  Miss 
Frances  L.  Bryniarski  in  Orange,  Mass.  on 
October  9,  1971.  The  groom  was  a  lieuten- 
ant in  the  U.S.  Signal  Corps  in  Vietnam  and 
is  now  employed  as  an  electrical  engineer. 
The  bride  is  a  French  teacher  at  St.  Mary's 
High  School,  Lynn.  .  .  DONALD  W.  RULE 
to  Miss  Carleen  Elaine  Ruohonen  on 
November  27  in  Worcester,  Massachusetts. 
Mrs.  Rule  attended  Emmanuel  College  and 
is  a  graduate  of  Boston  University.  Her 
husband  is  a  candidate  for  his  doctoral 
degree  in  physics  at  the  University  of 
Connecticut,  Hartford. 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  JOSEPH  E. 
STAHL,  a  son,  Jameson  Thomas,  on  Octo- 
ber 24,  1971.  Joe  is  still  with  Moulded 
Products,  Easthampton,  Mass.  .  .  Teaching 
physics  at  Shrewsbury  (Mass.)  High  School 
is  CRAIG  R.  BARROWS  who  resides  in 
Spencer.  .  .  DOUGLAS  E.  BROWN  of 
Noank,  Conn,  is  a  mechanical  engineer  with 
the  Naval  Underwater  Systems  Center, 
Ocean  Engineering  Division,  New  London 
...U.S.  Army  CAPTAIN  MICHAEL  F. 
DELLEO,  JR.  has  been  awarded  his  second 
bronze  star  medal  near  Long  Binh,  Vietnam. 
Capt.  Delleo  received  the  award  while  as- 
signed   as    a    manpower    officer    in    Head- 


quarters, U.S.  Army  Engineer  Command 
having  "distinguished  himself  through 
meritorious  service  in  connection  with  mili- 
tary operations  against  hostile  forces  in 
Vietnam.".  ..  JOHN  M.  HISCOCK  is  cur- 
rently a  department  engineer  for  the  Second 
Taxing  District  Water  Dept.,  South  Nor- 
walk,  Connecticut.  Previously  he  was  with 
the  water  and  sewer  planning  unit  of  the 
Philadelphia  Water  Department.  .  .  E.  I.  du 
Pont  Experimental  Station,  Wilmington, 
Del.,  employs  THOMAS  F.  X.  McAULIFFE 
who  lives  in  Claymont.  .  .  Thiele-Engdahl, 
Inc.,  Elizabeth,  N.J.  recently  gave 
MICHAEL  T.  NOWAK  the  position  of  ink 
chemist.  Michael's  home  is  in  Beacon, 
N.Y.  .  .  PFC.  MICHAEL  G.  OUELLETTE 
has  completed  nine  weeks  of  special  training 
at  Ft.  Jackson,  S.C.  He  learned  the  tech- 
niques and  tactics  of  a  rifle  squad,  patrol- 
ling, and  individual  combat  operations.  .  . 
MARTIN  SURABIAN  works  as  a  mechani- 
cal engineer  for  Bechtel  Corp.,  Gaithersburg, 
Maryland. 

1970 

Married:  JOSEPH  M.  CHWALEK  and 
Miss  Donna  Valerie  Longe  on  October  30, 
1971  in  Springfield,  Mass.  The  bridegroom 
is  presently  serving  in  the  U.S.  Army  as  an 
electrical  engineer  in  the  Foreign  Science 
and  Technological  Center,  Charlottesville, 
Va.,  where  the  couple  resides.  .  .  EDWARD 
E.  HOWE  to  Miss  Joyce  Essie  May  Baldwin 
in  Highland  Falls,  N.Y.  on  September  20, 
1971.  They  will  make  their  home  in  Ger- 
many where  Edward  is  a  first  lieutenant  in 
the  U.S.  Army.  .  .  JOHN  A.  PELLI  and  Miss 
Marcia  Karen  Mitchell  on  October  23  in 
Providence,  R.I.  John  recently  joined  the 
Trane  Company's  Consumer  Products  Divi- 
sion sales  office  in  Springfield,  Mass.  Prior 
to  receiving  his  assignment  he  completed  the 
Trane  Graduate  Engineer  Training  Program, 
a  10-week  course  which  concentrates  on 
business  management.  .  .  PAUL  A.  PER- 
RON to  Miss  Mary  T.  Russell  in  Springfield, 
Mass.  on  November  27,  1971.  Paul  is  em- 
ployed as  a  chemist  by  Scott-Graphics,  Inc., 
in  Holyoke.  ..  RICHARD  J.  SCHWARTZ 
and  Miss  Beth  Ellyn  Goldman  on  November 
27  in  Worcester.  The  groom  is  a  candidate 
for  his  master's  degree  in  computer  science 
at  WPI. 

CRAIG  C.  CHASE  of  Clark,  N.J.,  has 
been  named  manager  of  the  Friendly  Ice 
Cream  and  Sandwich  Shop  on  Main  Street 
in  Madison,  N.J.  .  .  Army  2/LT.  JOSEPH  D. 
HENSEL  has  completed  a  12-week  field 
artillery  officer  basic  course  at  the  Army 
Field  Artillery  School,  Fort  Sill,  Oklahoma 
.  .WILLIAM  R.  NAAS  was  recently  pro- 
moted to  Army  First  Lieutenant  at  Fort 
George  O.  Meade,  Md.,  while  serving  with 
the  Army  Security  Agency's  support  group 
...2/LT.  MICHAEL  D.  VARDEMAN 
serves  as  Safety  Officer  with  the  U.S.  Army 
at  Fort  Hood,  Texas. 


1971 

Married:  THEODORE  A.  FRED- 
ERICKS to  Miss  Mary  Elizabeth  Martin, 
September  3  in  New  Haven,  Connecticut. 
The  couple  is  living  in  Worcester,  Mass.  .  . 
STEPHEN  P.  KATZ  and  Miss  Sandra  L. 
Northrop  in  Schenectady,  N.Y.,  on  October 
23,  1971.  Stephen  is  employed  by  the 
Morse  Shoe  Co.  in  Albany.  .  .  GERALD  J. 
KERSUS  to  Miss  Kathleen  M.  Dorsey  in 
Worcester,  Mass.,  on  October  2.  Mrs.  Kersus 
received  a  degree  in  executive  secretarial 
science  from  Quinsigamond  Community 
College,  Worcester,  and  was  formerly  a 
secretary  for  The  Thorn  McAn  Shoe  Co.  The 
groom  is  employed  by  the  Naval  Electronics 
Test  and  Evaluation  Facility,  St.  Indigoes, 
Maryland.  .  .  JOHN  A.  LIND  and  Miss  Linda 
Jean  Kelley  on  September  25th  in  East 
Haven,  Conn.  John  is  with  Harry  M.  Davis 
Bros.,  Inc.,  North  Haven,  Conn.  The  couple 
resides  in  West  Haven.  .  .  ANDREW  B.  LIS- 
TON  to  Miss  Stephanie  Ann  Bolton  October 
9,  1971  in  Cabot,  Vermont.  The  bride  is  a 
senior  at  the  University  of  Vermont,  Bur- 
lington, and  the  groom  is  a  civil  engineer  for 
Thompson-Liston  Associates,  Inc.,  in 
Worcester,  Mass. 

JOHN  A.  GIORDANO,  who  is  enrolled 
in  the   MBA  program  at  the  University  of 
Rhode   Island,  has  been  chosen  to  receive  a 
URI    Foundation   Graduate   Fellowship  for 
this  academic  year.  The  one-year  fellowship 
will  provide  $1,800  at  $200  a  month  for  the 
next  nine  months.  John  was  recommended 
for  the  award  on  the  basis  of  his  outstanding 
scholastic  record.  .  .  GARY  J.  LARSON  has 
been  appointed  assistant  chemical  engineer, 
Pilot  Plant,  Nepera  Chemical  Company,  Inc. 
in  Harriman,  N.Y.  He  resides  in  Crompond 
...Army    PFC    RICHARD    F.    LUKAS    is 
serving    with    the    5th    ADA    Regiment   at 
Bristol,  Rhode  Island.  He  is  a  crewman  with 
Battery  C,  3rd  Battalion  of  the  regiment.  .  . 
Graduate    Student    THOMAS   A.   McKEON 
attends    the    University    of    California    at 
Berkeley.  .  .  JOHN  S.  MESCHISEN  has  em- 
ployment with  the  Power  Authority  of  the 
State  of  New  York.  .  .  ABBAS  A.  SALIM  is 
studying  for  a  PhD  at  Polytechnic  Institute 
of     Brooklyn,     N.Y.  ..  GEORGE    M.    SIM- 
MONS reports  that  he  competes  in  motor- 
cycle races  and  is  working  on   Long   Island 
.  .  .  Peace  Corps  member  ROBERT  M.  SINI- 
CROPE  has  been  assigned  to  Montego  Bay, 
Jamaica.    He    teaches    mathematics   in    the 
West  Indies.  .  .  JAMES  H.  SNIDER  works  as 
a  research  engineer  at  WPI's  Alden  Research 
Labs.  He  lives  in  Worcester.  .  .  STEWART  T. 
STOCKING    has    joined    The   Trane   Com- 
pany's   Consumer    Products    Division    sales 
office  in  Boston,  Mass.  .  .  DAVID  A.  TRUE 
has    been    promoted    from   chemical    tech- 
nologist   at    Salem    Harbor    to   assistant    to 
chief    technologist    at    the    Brayton    Point 
facility  of  the  New  England  Power  Co.  The 
facility        is        located        in        Somerset, 
Massachusetts. 


32 


THE  WPI  JOURNAtI 


k  *9hVI& 


W.V; 


.?  .- 


*  /« 


^ft*V. 

P$&v 

vlt     -        fl 

,-.* . 


-*» 


^  '     V  ;i 


»-  -**t  * 


"^ 


EO: 


^: 


What's  Norton  doing 
for  the  economy? 


Let's  get  down  to  cases. 


Case  #  1 

Product:  Star  Tumblex® . . . 
a  new  line  of  Norton  mass 
finishing  abrasives  that  sub- 
stantially reduces  mass  finish- 
ing costs. 

Profile:  Even  as  it  wears 
down,  Star  Tumblex  retains 
its  unique  tapered  shape  and 
the  self-sharpening  points 
continue  to  smooth  and  polish  small  and  intricate  surfaces 
with  no  need  for  additional  smaller  shapes  or  sizes  to  do 
the  job. 

Performance:  Surface  conditioners  throughout  industry 
are  using  Star  Tumblex  to  achieve  faster  finishing  cycles 
with  less  abrasive  usage— as  much  as  2 V2  times  less  — 
and  a  lower  cost  per  part. 

Case  #3 

Product:  Resinall  Metalite® 
Type  LB  Belts  for  grinding 
stainless  steel  and  high  nickel 
alloy  parts  such  as  jet  engine 
blades. 

Profile:  A  special  built-in 
lubricant  reduces  grinding 
temperatures  up  to  500°F., 
thereby  preserving  the  sur- 
face integrity  of  the  metal 
and  increasing  belt  life  from  2  to  6  times. 
Performance:  Customers  find  that  this  new  abrasive  belt 
not  only  takes  the  heat  off  dry  grinding  but  actually  cools 
costs  up  to  25%.  Jet  blade  production  increased  by  as 
much  as  40%. 


Case  #2 

Product:  Norton  Abrasive 
Machining  System ...  a  new, 
high  speed  machining  sys- 
tem for  faster,  lower  cost 
metal  removal. 
Profile:  This  super-powered 
producer  drives  grinding 
wheels  up  to  1 6,000  sfpm 
and  increases  metal  removal 
rates  to  more  than  1 .00"  per  minute  on  diameter. 
Performance:  This  new  Norton  system  delivers  up  to 
V3  higher  metal  removal  rates  than  the  previous  record- 
breaking  Norton  system.  Castings  and  forgings  can. now 
be  ground  from  the  rough  with  savings  in  manpower, 
space,  and  extra  machines. 

Case  #4 

Product:  The  world's  largest 
commercial  abrasive  wheel 
. . .  provides  the  most  eco- 
nomical method  for  steel 
mills  to  convert  from  steel 
blades  for  cutting  large, 
rolled  metal  shapes. 
Profile:  Six  feet  tall  and 
tough  enough  to  cut  through 
jet  engine  alloy  rounds  1  1" 
thick  in  just  1 7  seconds,  this 
giant  wheel  has  a  cutting  speed  of  around  SVi  sq.  in. 
per  second. 

Performance:  Compared  with  metal  blade  cold  saws, 
the  new  Norton  cut-off  wheel  reduced  cutting  time  up  to 
66%  and  also  provided  substantial  savings  in  equipment 
maintenance  costs. 


These  are  just  a  few  examples  of  Norton's  total  abrasive  capability.  They  translate  into  greater  productivity  and  economy. 
Today,  all  over  the  world,  wherever  metals  are  removed,  smoothed,  finished,  polished,  machined  or  conditioned,  Norton 
customers  are  doing  it  faster,  easier,  more  profitably  than  ever.  Norton  Company:  World  Headquarters,  Worcester, 
Massachusetts  0 1 606. 


NORTON 


The  name  for  total  abrasive  capability 


Wyman-Gordon  is  the  country's  out- 
standing producer  of  forged  compo- 
nents for  America's  key  industries. 
Wyman-Gordon  has  supplied  forgings 
for  virtually  every  aircraft  in  the  skies 
today,  as  well  as  for  the  Saturn  and 
other  space  boosters.  Equally  important 
is  its  production  of  vital  components 
for  nuclear  and  turbine  power  plants, 
sea  and  undersea  vessels,  trucks,  trac- 
tors and  construction  equipment. 

Research  is  a  hallmark  of  Wyman- 
Gordon;  its  research  and  development 
teams  have  long  been  recognized  as  in- 
dustry leadersinthedevelopment of  new 
techniques  for  advanced  materials  such 
as  titanium  and  other  space-age  alloys. 


Forging  form  and  function 
into  metal 


WYMAN  -  GORDON 


WORCESTER 

NORTH  GRAFTON      MILLBURY 

Midwest  Division:  Harvey.  Illinois 

Subsidiaries 

REISNER  METALS,  INC. 

South  Gate.  California 

ROLLMET,  INC. 

Santa  Ana.  California 

CAST  TECHNOLOGY,  INC. 

Schenectady.  N  Y 

WYMAN-GORDON  INDIA,  LTD. 

Bombay.  India 

Sales  Offices  Worldwide 


journal 


Vol.  75,  no.  4 
April,  1972 


H.  Russell  Kay 

Editor 

Ruth  A.  Trask 

Alumni  Information  Editor 

Publications  Committee 

Walter  B.  Dennen,  Jr.,  '51,  Chairman 

Robert  C.  Gosling,  '68 

Enfried  T.  Larson,  '22 

Rev.  Edward  I.  Swanson,  '45 

Richard  DeChard,  '56 


In  This  Issue 

The  Next  100  Years page  two 

Ben  Bova,  science  and  science-fiction  writer,  gives  us  a  look  at  what  the  next  century 
may  hold,  both  technologically  and  socially. 

Intersession  1972 page  ten 

The  astonishing  variety  of  events  during  last  January's  new  program,  as  related  by 
Ruth  Trask. 

After  the  Fact page  twenty-two 

William  R.  Grogan,  '46,  offers  an  evaluation  of  Intersession  from  his  point  of  view  as 
Dean  of  Undergraduate  Programs. 

Intersession — An  Alumnus'  View page  twenty-three 

In  this  guest  editorial,  Jim  Donahue,  '44,  offers  his  comments  on  Intersession  as  it  relates 
to  alumni. 


Published  for  the  Alumni  Association 
by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 

Copyright©  1972  by 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 
All  rights  reserved. 


WPI  Alumni  Association   Officers 

!  President: 
I.  J.  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44 

;■  Vice  Presidents: 
IB.  E.  Hosmer,  '61 
IW.  J.  Bank, '46 

Secretary-  Treasurer: 
S.  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President: 
R.  E.  Higgs,  '40 

Executive  Committee, 

Members-at- Large: 

C.   C.    Bonin,  '38;   F.   S.    Harvey,  '37; 

C.  W.  Backstrom,  '30;  L.  Polizzotto,  '70 

Fund  Board: 

G.  F.  Crowther,  '37; 

R.  F.  Burke,  Jr.,  '38;  L  A.  Penoncello, 

'66;  W.  J.  Charow,  '49;  H.  I.  Nelson,  '54 


The  WPI  Journal  is  published  five  times  a  year 
in  October,  December,  February,  April,  August. 
Entered  as  second  class  matter  July  26,  1918, 
at  the  Post  Office,  Worcester,  Massachusetts, 
under  the  act  of  March  3,  1879.  Subscription 
two  dollars  per  year.  Postmaster:  Please  send 
form  3579  to  Alumni  Association,  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester,  Mass.  01609. 


DEPARTMENTS 

Varsity  Review 24 

Completed  Careers 25 

Your  Class  and  Others 27 

Feedback 33 


IE  WPI  JOURNAL 


The  next 


M 


I 


I  WOULD  LIKE  to  talk  about  some  of  the  things  that 
may  be  happening  over  the  next  several  years,  the  next  few 
decades,  perhaps  as  far  ahead  as  the  next  hundred  years. 

Science  fiction  is  often  equated  with  attempts  to 
predict  the  future.  This  isn't  exactly  right,  although  lots  of 
science  fiction  stories  have  made  very  marvelous  predictions 
—  practically  every  piece  of  technology  we  have  today 
appeared  in  a  science-fiction  story  at  least  twenty  or  thirty 
years  ago.  But  as  Frederik  Pohl  once  said,  "Science-fiction 
predictions  are  like  a  broken  clock;  even  a  broken  clock  is 
correct  twice  a  day."  And  so  many  things  have  been 
predicted  in  so  many  science-fiction  stories  that  they  can 
hardly  miss  —  it's  the  buckshot  approach.  The  game  in 
science  fiction  is  not  to  try  to  predict  what  actually  is  going 
to  happen  as  much  as  to  show  the  forces  at  work  and  show 
some  of  the  possibilities  of  the  future.  .  .  some  of  the  things 
that  we  are  all  going  to  have  to  live  with  or  die  with  over 
the  next  many  years. 

For  example,  for  many  years  now  science-fiction  stories 
have  been  worrying  about  problems  of  overpopulation. 
Harry  Harrison's  book  Make  Room,  Make  Room  deals  with 
a  New  York  City  where  the  population  is  over  twenty 
million.  It's  not  a  very  pleasant  place.  Actually,  in  the  real 
world  it  looks  like  the  population  explosion,  although  it  is 
continuing,  is  beginning  to  slow  down,  even  in  places  like 
Latin  America,  as  the  rate  of  increase  in  the  birth  rate  is 
tapering  off.  We  may  be  seeing  soon  what  Winston 
Churchill  said  regarding  the  Battle  of  Britain,  "This  may 
not  be  the  beginning  of  the  end,  but  it  is  the  end  of  the 
beginning." 

The  1972  Lawrence  Hull  Lecture  key  noted  the  entire 
Intersession  period  in  general  and  one  course  in  particular. 
Ben  Bova  is  editor  of  Analog,  the  nation's  most 
prestigious  science-fiction  magazine.  A  graduate  of  Temple 
University,  Bova  has  written  more  than  a  dozen  books  as 
well  as  works  for  motion  pictures  (THX  1 138),  educational 
services,  and  physical  science  study  committees.  He  has 
worked  with  some  of  our  country's  leading  scientists  and 
engineers  in  the  fields  of  lasers,  magnetohydrodynamics, 
and  artificial  hearts.  He  has  lectured  before  the  New  York 
Academy  of  Sciences  and  at  the  World  Science  Fiction 
Convention. 


Year/ 


by  Ben  Bova 


However,  population  pressures  are  still  a  very  serious 
problem.  Let's  assume  for  the  next  hundred  years  that 
somehow  we  get  to  manage  this.  We're  going  to  have  a  more 
crowded  world.  This  planet  has  enormous  resources  avail- 
able to  it,  and  I  think  we  can  feed  ten  times  the  number  of 
people  we  have  today.  The  real  question  is  not  their 
physical  survival  as  much  as  what  kind  of  a  society  is  this 
going  to  give  us?  I  think  many  of  the  political  problems  we 
have  today  in  the  international  arena,  especially  the  unrest 
in  the  so-called  Third  World  or  in  the  underdeveloped 
nations,  are  directly  attributable  to  the  enormous  increase 
in  population. 

We  also  have  a  population-related  problem  in  this 
country,  in  that  we  are  polluting  the  environment  to  an 
incredible  degree.  The  really  funny  thing  about  pollution  is 
that  the  problem  is  solvable  by  today's  technology.  There  is 
very  little  being  poured  into  the  atmosphere  and  into  our 
water  that  modern  technology  could  not  fix.  The  real 
problem  with  pollution  is  not  technological  so  much  as  it  is 
social.  For  centuries,  for  millennia,  the  problems  that 
mankind  has  faced  have  been  very  basic,  first-order  prob- 
lems: How  do  I  get  enough  to  eat?  How  do  I  keep  from 
freezing  to  death  in  the  winter?  We  have  reached  the  point, 
in  Western  civilization  at  least,  where  these  problems  are 
pretty  well  solved  for  most  people.  In  this  nation,  for 
example  —  although  there  are  many  people,  far  too  many, 
who  still  do  not  get  a  proper  diet  and  who  still  are  hungry 
—  most  of  us  spend  more  for  diet  foods  than  other  nations 
spend  on  food  itself. 

We  produce  an  enormous  amount  of  pollution  and  we 
very  often  blame  our  technology,  but  it's  really  a  social 
problem.  We  want  to  have  electricity  and  automobiles.  We 
like  the  ability  to  move  around;  we  base  our  whole  lives  on 
the  ability  to  zip  around  20,  50,  100  miles  quite  easily. 
Now  we  find  that,  having  obtained  this  ability,  we  have  to 
pay  a  price.  The  price  at  the  moment  is  pollution.  We  can 
have  automobiles  and  we  can  have  electrical  power  plants; 
we  can  have  the  kind  of  society  we  have  today,  without 
very  much  pollution;  but  then  we  have  to  pay  another  kind 
of  price.  For  example,  there's  absolutely  no  reason  for 
fossil-fueled  power  plants  (which  burn  coal  or  oil  or  natural 
gas)  CO  be  dumping  pollutants  into  the  atmosphere.  There 
arc  perfectly  straightforward  types  of  equipment  that  can 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


The  real  question  is  not,  Do  we  have  to 
choose  between  electricity  and  clean  air? 
The  question  is,  How  much  are  we  willing  to 
pay  for  electricity  with  clean  air? 

get  rid  of  most  of  the  pollutants  that  they  emit.  There  are 
new  forms  of  power  generation  that  are  inherently  low- 
pollution,  but  all  these  cost  money.  The  real  question  is 
not,  Do  we  have  to  choose  between  electricity  and  clean 
air?  The  question  is,  How  much  are  we  willing  to  pay  for 
electricity  with  clean  air? 

Over  the  next  hundred  years,  over  the  next  ten  years, 
we  must  learn  how  to  do  our  economic  bookkeeping  in  a 
new  way.  We  must  tote  up  all  the  costs  of  the  things  we  do. 
Mainly  because  our  world  is  getting  crowded,  we  no  longer 
have  the  luxury  of  dumping  our  wastes  wherever  it  is  most 
convenient.  We  must  find  out  just  how  to  handle  these 
systems,  who  is  going  to  pay  for  them,  and  how  they  are 
going  to  be  paid.  These  are  essentially  social  and  political 
problems,  and  the  thing  that's  interesting  is  this:  If  we  do 
develop  systems  for  carefully  controlling  the  pollution  of 
our  electrical  power  plants,  or  our  transportation  systems, 
or  ourselves  —  people  —  the  political  consequences  of  such 
control  could  be  almost  as  bad  as  the  pollution  itself, 
though  in  a  different  way. 

In  a  city  like  Worcester,  for  example,  right  now  we  have 
no  political  way  of  controlling  the  pollution  being  poured 
out  by  the  factories  and  homes  and  automobiles  and  busses 
in  the  city.  There's  no  single  political  authority  that  can 
march  in  and  tell  you  to  stop  polluting  or  else.  True,  there 
are  laws  aimed  in  this  direction.  But  suppose  we  wanted  as 
strong  a  pollution  control  as  possible,  and  we  did  elect  or 
devise  a  political  system  in  which  polluters  were  very 
quickly  and  efficiently  taken  out  of  the  system  —  jailed  or 
what  have  you.  This  is  the  kind  of  political  control  that 
could  cause  other  problems,  that  could  lead  or  be  a  step 
toward  a  totalitarian  situation  that  I  don't  think  any  of  us 
really  want. 

The  basic  factor  of  life,  of  all  nature  really,  is  that  you 
always  have  to  pay  a  price  for  anything  you  get.  Robert 
Heinlein,  in  his  novel  The  Moon  Is  a  Harsh  Mistress,  coined 
the  word  tanstaafl,  which  is  an  acronym  meaning  "There 
Ain't  No  Such  Thing  As  A  Free  Lunch."  Whatever  we  want 
we  will  have  to  pay  for,  one  way  or  another,  and  thanks  to 
the  second  law  of  thermodynamics  we  are  always  going  to 
have  to  pay  more  than  we  get  back. 

Now  pollution  and  population  problems  are  things  that 
many  people  are  worried  about  today  and  working  toward 
solutions  for.  Another  thing  we  can  look  forward  to  over 


Whatever  we  want  we  are  going  to  have 
to  pay  for,  one  way  or  another,  and  thanks 
to  the  second  law  of  thermodynamics  we  are 
always  going  to  have  to  pay  more  than  we 
get  back. 


the  next  century,  I  think,  is  the  slow  —  and  in  some  cases 
the  not-so-slow  —  demise  of  cities. 

The  very  term  civilization  carries  with  it  the  idea  of 
people  who  live  in  cities.  Archaeologists  tend  to  judge  the 
complexity  of  a  long-gone  culture  by  the  size  and  com- 
plexity of  the  cities  that  it  has  built.  We  think  in  terms  of 
city  dwellers  being  sophisticated,  urbane,  knowledgeable, 
and  the  people  who  live  out  in  the  rural  communities  being 
hicks.  But  I  think  what's  happening  in  most  of  our  cities  is 
something  similar  to  what  happens  to  stars.  A  star  is  born, 
goes  through  a  life-span,  and  then  eventually  dies.  The 
bigger  the  star,  the  more  spectacular  its  death.  The  very 
largest  stars  go  through  tremendous  explosions,  called 
supernovas,  and  eventually  disappear  completely  from  the 
universe.  Before  that  happens,  they  begin  to  swell;  the 
central  core  of  the  star  gets  hotter  and  hotter,  the  outer 
envelope  of  the  star  swells;  and  then  suddenly  the  whole 
thing  collapses.  If  the  star  is  large  enough,  the  collapse  is 
irreversible,  and  it  disappears  from  the  universe  into  what 
astronomers  have  started  to  call  a  black  hole. 


Without  attempting  to  make  a  pun,  I  think  this  is  what  is 
happening  to  our  larger  cities.  I  spend  several  days  a  week 
in  New  York,  and  it  is  interesting  to  watch  a  city  die  —  and' 
frightening.  At  the  moment,  New  York  is  still  going 
through  its  expansion  phase;  people  are  leaving  the  city  - 
anyone  who  can,  is.  Business  firms  are  leaving  the  city, 
sooner  or  later  the  Stock  Exchange  will  leave.  And  the 
people  who  are  being  left  behind  are  the  ones  who  can't  get 
out,  either  because  they  haven't  the  financial  resources  or 
the  knowledge  or  haven't  the  right  skin  color.  They  are 
stuck  there.  The  core  of  the  city  is  getting  wearier  and 
wearier,  hotter  in  a  sense,  and  eventually  it  is  going  to 
collapse. 

The  funny  thing  is,  from  the  technological  point  of 
view  we  may  have  reached  the  point  where  we  no  longer 
need  cities.  The  people  who  work  in  most  large  cities  now 
live  outside  the  city  proper.  They  jump  into  their  cars  in 
the  morning,  create  a  horrendous  traffic  jam,  congregate  in 
several  buildings  in  the  downtown  section,  shuffle  papers  all 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


day  long,  get  in  their  cars  at  night,  and  create  another  jam 
on  their  way  home.  What's  happening,  of  course,  is  that 
people  who  live  in  a  dispersed  area  come  into  a  central 
point  where  they  can  communicate  with  one  another, 
where  they  can  have  access  to  the  information  that  makes 
up  their  job.  With  modern  computer  technology  and 
communications,  we  can  foresee  an  era  not  too  far  in  the 
future  when  it  may  be  completely  unnecessary  for  people 
to  come  to  one  central  gathering  place. 

With  computer  terminals  and  large  time-sharing  com- 
puters, we  might  even  see  a  time  when  people  can  work  in 
their  own  homes  and  have  access  to  all  the  information 
they  would  ordinarily  get  in  their  offices.  In  fact,  we  can 
see  an  era  when  you  don't  need  paper  at  all,  paper  will 
literally  disappear.  You  don't  have  to  write  things  down  on 
a  piece  of  paper  and  file  it  in  a  drawer;  you  can  write  it 
with  a  light  pen  on  a  cathode  ray  tube  and  the  computer 
will  store  it  in  a  holographic  memory.  Certainly  the 
pocket-sized  memory  cores  of  computers  now  can  store 
much  more  information  than  the  average  file  cabinet,  and 
these  cores  are  going  to  look  very  large  and  clumsy 
compared  to  the  memory  cores  of  future-generation  com- 
puters. With  picture  telephones,  which  will  depend  largely 
on  very  broad-band  communications  —  maybe  laser  links 
from  phone  to  satellite  to  another  phone  —  I  think  we  can 
begin  to  see  that  we  can  sit  in  our  homes  and  attend  classes 
or  go  to  work"  without  ever  leaving  the  house.  At  most,  we 
will  go  to  one  suburban  central  area  where  a  few  blocks' 
worth  of  people  will  gather  and  conduct  this  kind  of 
operation.  The  whole  idea  of  moving  hundreds  of  thou- 
sands of  people  into  a  central-city  urban  area  for  eight 
hours  a  day  and  then  moving  them  out  again  can  just  about 
be  done  away  with  if  this  kind  of  technology  progresses  the 
way  we  think  it  might. 

With  computer  terminals  and  large  time- 
sharing computers,  we  might  even  see  a  time 
when  people  can  work  in  their  own  homes 
and  have  access  to  all  the  information  they 
would  ordinarily  get  in  their  offices. 

So  if  we  put  these  two  things  together,  the  fact  that 
people  are  abandoning  the  cities  and  leaving  behind  the 
poor,  the  Black,  and  the  other  minority  groups,  and  the 
fact  that  there  is  a  very  good  reason  why  we  may  not  need 
cities  any  more,  we  may  find  a  situation  which  is  new  to 
civilization.  In  bygone  eras  great  cultures  would  arise,  build 
cities,  and  then  be  swept  down  by  barbarians  who  lived 
outside  in  the  hills  or  the  steppes.  The  barbarians  would 
eventually  come  in  and  destroy  the  cities  and  the  whole 
cycle  would  begin  again.  What  we  may  be  going  through 
now  is  a  situation  where  we  are  abandoning  our  cities;  the 
civilized  people,  the  so-called  urbane  people,  are  moving 
out  into  what  used  to  be  the  countryside,  leaving  behind 
them  a  trapped  population  of  ghetto  dwellers  who  will 
some  day,  more  or  less  by  default,  become  the  new 
barbarians  —  and  I  don't  mean  the  term  barbarians  in  a 
derogatory  sense  at  all.  I  mean  people  who  are  have-nots 
and  who  are  willing  to  fight  to  get  what  the  rest  of  us  have. 


The  remedial  patchwork  that  is  going  on 
in  most  cities  is  far  too  little  and  may  be  far 
too  late  to  correct  what  could  become  an 
irreversible  collapse. 

If  that  situation  comes  to  pass,  there  is  going  to  be  a 
holocaust  of  enormous  proportions.  And  it  will  only 
happen  if  we  really  deserve  it,  because  God  knows  we  have 
the  brains  and  the  technology  and  the  wealth  to  correct  this 
situation.  But  unfortunately  I  don't  see  any  real  trends  now 
that  are  at  work  to  correct  it.  The  remedial  patchwork  that 
is  going  on  in  most  cities  is  far  too  little  and  may  be  far  too 
late  to  correct  what  could  become  an  irreversible  collapse. 
Certainly  I  think  a  city  the  size  of  New  York  has  had  it. 
Frankly,  so  do  many  many  business  firms  which  are  leaving 
New  York  and  moving  out. 

That's  a  gloomy  aspect  of  what  may  be  coming  up  in 
the  next  few  decades.  But  if  we  look  outside  of  our  cities, 
outside  of  our  own  planet,  we  may  find  something  much 
more  exciting  and  perhaps  much  more  cheerful. 

I  think  before  the  end  of  the  century  it  is  almost 
inevitable  that  we  will  find  strong  evidence  of  life  on  other 
worlds.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  several  investigators  have 
already  found  organic  chemicals  in  the  soil  returned  from 
the  moon.  This  does  not  mean  there  are  living  creatures  on 
the  moon,  or  even  that  there  once  were  living  creatures  on 
the  moon.  It  simply  means  that  the  necessary  building 
materials  are  there,  if  the  conditions  were  right,  for  a 
chemical  evolution  to  lead  to  the  formation  of  life.  Our 
Mariner  9  vehicle  is  getting  some  clear  pictures  from  Mars 
now  that  the  sandstorm  that  greeted  it  has  died  away. 
There  is  no  strong  evidence  yet  of  life  on  Mars,  but  there 
are  indirect,  nagging  kinds  of  questions:  Mars  has  seasons 
much  like  the  Earth,  although  Mars'  seasons  are  twice  as 
long  as  ours  because  its  year  is  twice  as  long.  In  the  Martian 
spring,  the  polar  cap  melts  (or  at  least  disappears)  and  some 
of  the  dark  patches  on  Mars  change  color  —  various 
astronomers  have  called  them  blue-green  or  greenish.  Some 
evidence  has  been  found  for  the  kinds  of  light  absorption 
that  come  from  green  plants,  on  Earth.  This  is  very  tenuous 
evidence  and  might  be  completely  wrong,  but  at  any  rate, 
there  are  some  indirect  hints  that  perhaps  what  we  may  be 
seeing  on  Mars  is  a  form  of  life. 

But  one  has  to  be  very  careful  about  this  sort  of  thing,    j 
A  few  years  ago,  a  couple  of  astronomers  using  the  Mount 
Wilson  telescope  —  a  100-inch  telescope  near  Los  Angeles  — 
found  strong  evidence  of  a  heavy  concentration  of  nitric 
oxide  in  the  atmosphere  of  Mars.  When  they  published  their 
findings,   they  concluded  that  obviously,  because  of  the   I 
dangerous  levels  of  nitric  oxide  in  the  atmosphere,  Mars  I 
would    not    be    a    fitting    abode    for    human    life.   Other  I 
astronomers  checked  their  results  and  found  out  that  the 


There  is  no  strong  evidence  yet  of  life  on 
Mars,  but  there  are  indirect,  nagging  kinds  of 
questions. 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Mount  Wilson  telescope  was  looking  through  the  atmos- 
phere above  Los  Angeles  and  the  nitric  oxide  it  saw  was 
from  the  automobile  pollution  in  Los  Angeles.  So  they 
concluded  that  obviously  Los  Angeles  is  not  a  fitting  abode 
for  human  life. 

But  looking  even  beyond  our  solar  system,  for  the  past 
ten  years  astronomers  have  been  getting  radio  signals  from 
large  clouds  of  interstellar  gas  and  dust.  These  radio  signals 
are  completely  natural  (they  are  not  intelligent  signals)  but 
they  are  the  kind  of 
radio  wavelengths  that 
would  be  emitted  natu- 
rally by  some  rather 
complex  molecules  — 
hydrocarbon  molecules 
principally,  also  water, 
ammonia,  and  some 
other  ingredients  that 
biochemists  get  excited 
about  because  these  are 
the  kinds  of  things  you 
need  to  make  living  crea- 
tures. It  appears  that  in 
these  large  clouds  of 
interstellar  gas  and  dust, 
the  necessary  chemicals 
for  life  are  present  quite 
naturally.  If  you  want  to 
take  the  kind  of  jump 
that  maybe  only  a 
science-fiction  writer 
would  take,  perhaps  this 
means  that  the  forma- 
tion of  life  is  as  com- 
pletely natural  an  event 
as  the  formation  of  a 
new  star.  If  that  is  true, 
then  the  chances  for  life 
are  enormous,  not  only 
within  our  solar  system 
but  in  other  solar  sys- 
tems all  over  the  Milky 
Way  galaxy  and  in  other 
galaxies  as  well. 

This  creates  some  interesting  puzzles.  Suppose  over  the 
next  one  hundred  years  we  get  some  unequivocal  evidence 
of  intelligent  life,  such  as  a  radio  message  that  is  clearly 
quite  artificial,  or  perhaps  an  actual  visit.  After  all,  people 
have  been  seeing  flying  saucers  since  Biblical  times  —  maybe 
they  really  are  something  from  off  this  planet,  although  at 
present  I  don't  think  anybody  has  produced  any  evidence 
at  all  that  shows  that  saucers  are  extraplanetary  objects. 

The  distances  between  stars  are  vast.  The  distance 
between  the  earth  and  the  sun  averages  out  to  about  93 
million  miles.  If  you  shrunk  down  to  an  inch,  the  nearest 
star,  Alpha  Centauri,  would  be  4  1/3  miles  away.  The  stars 
are  millions  of  times  farther  away  than  the  distances  within 
our  own  solar  system.  This  means  that,  living  with  what  we 
know  of  the  laws  of  physics,  it's  hard  to  envision  very  much 
commerce  between  the  stars.  If  there  is  any  travel  between 
one  star  and  another,  they  are  essentially  all  going  to  be 


one-way  trips.  Distances  are  so  vast  that  a  trip  to  Alpha 
Centauri  would  take  thousands  of  years  to  get  there  by  the 
kinds  of  rocket  systems  we  know  today.  Assume  that  you 
can  be  frozen  cryogenically  in  a  bath  of  liquid  helium  and 
then  awakened  and  brought  back  to  life  without  any 
damage  to  your  body;  you  could  sort  of  sleep  away  the 
years  in  transit  between  here  and  Alpha  Centauri.  You  get 
there  and  have  a  good  time  —  you  arrive  on  Saturday  night 
and  go  to  the  local  dance  —  and  you  come  back  again.  But 

thousands  of  years  have 
</"      ^^^    ff  passed   on    Earth.    Even 

>X    Jf- '      ,t \XZ  though  you  come  back 

to  your  starting  point, 
so  much  time  will  have 
elapsed  that  it's  a  totally 
different  world. 

Just  who  would  go 
on  suchjourneys?  We've 
all  read  lots  of  science- 
fiction  stories  about  star 
ships  blasting  out  among 
the  stars  and  the  far 
reaches  of  the  Milky 
Way  galaxy  and  even 
beyond.  But  let's  think 
about  it  in  realistic 
terms:  Who  would  actu- 
ally go  out  on  such  a  star 
mission?  I  tend  to  think 
the  same  kinds  of  people 
who  got  pushed  out  of 
Europe  for  various  polit- 
ical or  religious  reasons. 
Essentially,  you  have 
the  next  centuries'  ver- 
sions of  the  Puritans  or 
Pilgrims,  the  kinds  of 
people  who  founded 
this  country.  If  anyone 
goes  at  all,  it  will  be  the 
people  who  don't  intend 
to  come  back,  the  peo- 
ple who  want  to  build  a 
new  world. 

And  if  you  take  a  look  at  the  direction  this  world  is  going 
in,  in  the  next  generation  or  two  (unless  we  improve  things) 
it  might  be  quite  attractive  to  take  off  and  head  for  the 
stars;  it  might  be  the  thing  to  do.  Certainly  it  would  be  an 
interesting  form  of  protest. 

There  are  two  things  in  the  offing,  one  quite  close  and 
the  other  a  little  further  off,  that  could  seriously  change  the 
way  we  live  today.  The  first  one  is  the  laser.  You've  all  seen 
motion  pictures;  I  think  Goldfinger  was  the  laser  movie  par 


If  anyone  goes  to  the  stars,  I  think  it  will 
be  the  people  who  don't  intend  to  come 
back,  the  people  who  want  to  build  a  new 
world. 


iE  WPI  JOURNAL 


excellence,  in  which  James  Bond's  adversaries  use  a  laser  to 
melt  down  the  door  to  Fort  Knox.  Although  they  don't 
look  quite  the  same,  lasers  of  that  power  now  exist.  They 
don't  go  rattling  around  in  trucks,  they  are  too  big  and 
clumsy,  and  I  think  the  people  at  Fort  Knox  aren't  really 
losing  too  much  sleep  about  it.  On  the  other  hand,  efforts 
are  being  made  in  both  industry  and  the  military  to  see  just 
what  lasers  can  do  and  where  they  will  be  useful.  Back 
when  I  was  young,  we  all  read  Buck  Rogers  with  his 
handy-dandy  disintegrator  gun.  Recently  there  was  a 
cartoon  in  a  magazine  called  Laser  Focus  in  which  a 
white-coated  lab  technician  is  holding  a  pistol-like  affair 
and  he  says:  "At  last,  a  hand-held  laser  weapon!"  And  from 
the  stock  of  the  pistol  is  a  cord  that  leads  to  about  six  vans 
of  electronic  equipment.  That's  about  the  stage  of  laser 
technology  right  now.  But  it  won't  stay  that  way. 

The  Department  of  Defense  likes  to  drill 
holes  into  anything  that  walks,  flies,  moves 
—  that's  their  job,  that's  what  they  get  paid 
to  do,  and  lasers  will  help  them  do  it  better. 


Eleven  years  ago  there  were  no  lasers;  five  years  ago  the 
most  powerful  laser  you  could  produce  made  a  couple  of 
watts.  Today  in  the  unclassified  literature  there  are  papers 
that  show  lasers  of  60  kilowatts  of  continuous  output. 
Sixty  thousand  watts.  That's  enough  to  make  Ford  Motor 
Company  interested  in  devising  a  laser  system  that  will  weld 
the  complete  underbody  of  their  Montego  automobile  in 
thirty  seconds.  They  would  do  it  on  an  assembly  line,  just 
zap,  zap,  zap,  eight  hours  a  day.  Well,  most  lasers  don't 
work  eight  minutes  without  failing  in  one  way  or  another, 
but  they  are  getting  to  the  point  where  they  will  be 
industrially  useful.  The  Bureau  of  Mines  and  the  Depart- 
ment of  Transportation  both  like  to  drill  tunnels  through 
very  hard  rock,  and  lasers  may  be  the  way  that  they  do  it. 
The  Department  of  Defense  likes  to  drill  holes  into 
anything  that  walks,  flies,  moves  —  that's  their  job,  that's 
what  they  get  paid  to  do,  and  lasers  will  help  them  do  it 
better. 

There's  an  interesting  thing  here,  you  know.  We've  all 
been  under  a  pall  of  nuclear  threat.  We  are  within  thirty 
minutes  of  complete  wipeout.  There's  no  major  population 
center  in  this  country  that  is  not  targeted.  There  are 
Russian  missiles  and  there  will  be  Chinese  missiles  —  and 
God  knows  there  may  even  be  Mexican  missiles  some  day  — 
ready  and  aimed  at  our  cities;  and  of  course  we  have 
missiles  with  Russian  and  Chinese  names  on  them.  These 
missiles  are  to  date  the  ultimate  weapon.  Although  an 
enormous  amount  of  research  has  been  done  in  developing 
counter-systems,  anti-missile  systems,  no  one  has  seriously 
suggested  that  we  could  stop  a  deterlnined  Russian  missile 
attack.  And  I  think  that  the  Russians  know  that  they  could 
not  stop  a  determined  attack  of  ours.  The  offense  has  all 
the  cards  right  now,  or  at  least  enough  to  make  it  a 
one-sided  game. 

High-powered  lasers  are  going  to  be  much  too  expensive 
to  use  on  "soft"  targets,  targets  that  could  be  easily 
handled    by    other    weapons.    But    these    ICBM's   are   very 


difficult  targets,  and  it  may  be  that  high-powered  lasers  will 
be  the  kind  of  weapon  that  breaks  this  nuclear  deadlock. 
Whether  that  leads  to  a  better  world  or  a  more  difficult 
world  is  hard  to  predict.  Right  now  the  possibility  of  death 
in  thirty  minutes  has  kept  the  U.S.  and  Russia  carefully 
away  from  each  other.  The  wars  that  have  been  fought 
since  the  Second  World  War  have  all  been  in  the  under- 
developed nations,  proxy  wars.  Although  we've  sent  our 
own  troops  in  (because  we're  the  good  guys),  the  Russians 
(who  are  nefarious  and  Communist  and  atheistic)  have  been 
clever  enough  to  get  other  people  to  do  their  fighting.  Now 
if  this  nuclear  deadlock  were  broken,  if  either  the  U.S., 
Russia,  China,  or  any  combination  of  the  three  had  a 
missile  defense,  it's  interesting  to  speculate  on  just  what 
would  happen.  If  one  side  found  itself  fairly  safe  from 
missile  attack  and  thought  the  other  side  did  not  have  such 
a  defense,  they  might  be  very  sorely  tempted  to  pull  what 
the  Pentagon  calls  a  preemptive  war:  that  is,  blow  the  other 
man  out  of  the  water  before  he  can  do  anything  to  you.  On 
the  other  hand,  if  both  sides  develop  this  kind  of  defense 
simultaneously,  it  negates  the  whole  nuclear  holocaust 
business,  and  maybe  we  can  start  living  with  a  little  more 
freedom  and  a  little  less  fear. 

Years  ago  I  wrote  a  story  called  "The  Next  Logical 
Step"  in  which  something  like  this  was  posed.  The  purpose 
of  the  story  was  to  show  that  if  you  have  this  kind  of 
weapon  the  wisest  thing  is  to  make  sure  the  other  side  gets 
it  too.  In  the  story,  we  hired  a  spy  to  send  our  information 
over  to  Russia.  It's  much  too  dangerous  to  have  one  side 
ahead  in  this  kind  of  a  race. 

In  a  more  positive  vein,  we  can  envision  rockets  in 
which  the  main  boosting  power  for  lift-off  from  the  ground 
comes  from  a  very  high-powered  laser.  Envision  a  rocket 
vehicle  which  is  about  50  percent  payload  and  50  percent  a 
tank  of  hydrogen.  With  a  laser  to  heat  this  propellant  we 
can  achieve  a  much  higher  temperature  than  we  can  get 
from  combustion,  by  burning  the  hydrogen  with  oxygen. 
The  higher  temperature  will  give  a  higher  exit  velocity  and, 
if  things  are  worked  right,  more  thrust.  It  might  be  possible 
to  boost  very  large  vehicles  into  orbit  with  a  laser  system 
that  sits  on  the  ground.  Essentially  what  we've  done  is 
taken  the  first  stage  of  the  Saturn  rocket,  taken  the  energy 
that  that  gives  to  the  rest  of  the  rocket,  and  delivered  it  in 
the  form  of  a  laser  beam  so  that  a  lot  of  the  very  expensive 
and  bulky  equipment  stays  on  the  ground;  and  the  amount 
of  vehicle  that  actually  flies  can  have  much,  much  higher 
payload  ratios. 

We  have  already  started  as  of  January  7  what  might  be 
considered  the  second  generation  of  serious  rocketry.  The 
space  shuttle  is  an  effort  to  make  a  reusable  rocket. 
Currently  we  throw  away  almost  everything.  By  the  time 
we  get  our  men  back  from  the  moon,  there  is  very  little  left 
in  the  way  of  the  original  Saturn  vehicle.  Just  a  used-up 
reentry   vehicle,   the   command   module;  everything  else  is 


We  can  envision  rockets  in  which  the 
main  boosting  power  for  lift-off  from  the 
ground  comes  from  a  very  high-powered 
laser. 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


thrown  away.  The  space  shuttle  will  be  a  rocket  that  can  be 
reused  time  and  time  again.  Therefore,  the  cost  of  putting 
things  into  orbit  will  be  much  cheaper.  If  this  laser 
propulsion  scheme  ever  works,  the  cost  of  putting  things 
into  orbit  will  become  cheaper  still,  and  it  may  get  down  to 
the  point  where  it  is  as  cheap  as  an  airplane  ride.  At  that 
point,  lots  of  interesting  things  can  be  done  in  orbit, 
including  perhaps  putting  our  breeder  reactors  into  orbit, 
where  even  if  they  go  haywire,  they  won't  damage  the 
environment  here. 

A  breeder  reactor  takes  a  low-grade  fissionable  material, 
upgrades  it,  and  essentially  produces  more  fissionable 
material  than  you  started  with.  It's  an  attempt  to  get 
around  the  fact  that  there  is  only  so  much  uranium  in  the 
world  and  we're  going  to  use  it  all  up  unless  we  learn  how 
to  do  something  better.  If  we  really  are  worried  about  the 
dangers  of  breeder  reactors,  we  can  put  them  in  orbit,  but 
only  if  it's  cheap;  and  I  think  the  cost  of  putting  things  in 
orbit  can  go  down  enormously. 

As  we  improve  the  efficiency  of  rockets, 
perhaps  with  different  technologies,  the  cost 
of  doing  things  in  orbit  will  go  down.  Whole 
new  manufacturing  industries  might  begin  in 
orbit. 


In  fact,  Arthur  Clarke  made  a  calculation  once  that 
showed  all  it  really  costs  in  terms  of  energy  to  put  a  man  on 
the  moon  is  only  a  few  dollars.  He  figured  out  how  many 
kilowatts  of  energy  you  need  to  expend  to  lift  a  human 
being  from  the  earth  and  deposit  him  gently  on  the  moon, 
and  then  he  figured  how  many  dollars  it  cost  to  get  that 
energy  from  the  electric  company.  The  problem  is  that 
electricity  is  not  energy  in  a  usable  form.  We  use  some 
rather  inefficient  rockets  to  put  people  into  space.  As  we 
improve  the  efficiency,  as  we  learn  to  handle  this  whole 
problem  with  different  technologies  perhaps,  the  cost  of 
doing  things  in  orbit  will  go  down.  Whole  new  manufactur- 
ing industries  might  begin  in  orbit. 

Today,  for  example,  in  the  electronics  industry  we  pay 
an  enormous  amount  of  money  to  produce  vacuums.  It's 
hard  to  get  a  good  vacuum  here  on  Earth.  If  you  have 
worked  in  a  research  facility  where  you  need  a  vacuum 
chamber,  you  find  that  it's  expensive.  Just  a  hundred  or  so 
miles  over  our  heads  is  a  better  vacuum  than  we've  ever 
produced  on  the  surface  of  this  planet.  The  only  problem  is 
that  it's  expensive  to  go  there.  Well,  the  day  is  coming  when 
it  won't  be  so  expensive,  and  perhaps  large  segments  of  the 
electronics  industry  and  maybe  other  industries  will  be  put 
into  orbit.  Later  this  year  the  first  Skylab  missions  will 
begin.  This  is  an  attempt  to  see  just  what  men  can  do  on 
extended  orbital  missions.  Astronauts  will  be  up  for  two  or 
three  months  at  a  time.  There's  a  whole  range  of  tasks  that 
they  are  going  to  tackle,  including  trying  to  test  some 
manufacturing  methods.  You  know,  you  can  make  very 
nice  ball-bearings  in  a  zero-G  environment  out  of  molten 
metal  because  it  forms  perfect  little  spheres.  This  is  just  a 
little  trick,  but  a  lot  of  these  ideas  may  develop  into  new 


industries,  and  we  may  learn  how  to  do  a  number  of  things 
in  orbit  that  we  couldn't  ever  dream  of  doing  here  on  earth. 
Eventually  we  will  see  orbital  facilities  that  include 
large  hospitals.  There  are  a  large  number  of  people  here  on 
Earth  who  die  because  their  heart  muscle  is  not  strong 
enough  to  pump  blood  through  their  bodies.  If  that  blood 
didn't  weigh  anything,  these  people  might  live.  Now  we 
have  the  technical  means,  or  will  have  by  the  end  of  the 


It  gets  to  be  in  most  hospitals  that  the 
decision  on  when  a  person  is  dead  is  essen- 
tially when  do  you  turn  off  the  electricity. 
Here  technology  is  posing  a  problem  that 
people  have  never  really  had  to  face  before. 


century,  to  save  these  people,  providing  we  can  get  them  in 
orbit  without  overtaxing  their  hearts.  But  then  that  brings 
up  an  interesting  social  question:  when  do  you  allow 
somebody  to  die?  We  are  now  working  on  all  sorts  of 
medical  devices  —  artificial  hearts,  kidneys,  lungs,  and  what 
have  you.  In  most  hospitals  the  decision  on  when  a  person 
is  dead  is  essentially  a  question  of  when  do  you  turn  off  the 
electricity.  Here  technology  is  posing  a  problem  that  people 
have  never  really  had  to  face  before.  And  you  find  a  good 
way  to  get  a  lawyer  and  an  M.D.  arguing  is  to  ask  them  to 
define  death. 

Another  part  of  technology  that  is  going  to  change  the 
world  considerably  is  the  advent  of  nuclear  fusion.  Part  of 
the  electricity  generated  in  this  country  comes  from  nuclear 
fission  plants,  in  which  heavy  atoms  like  uranium  are  split 
and  energy  is  produced.  Nuclear  fusion  takes  light  atoms  of 
hydrogen,  puts  them  together  to  form  helium,  and  this 
releases  energy.  Fusion  is  the  process  that  causes  the  sun 
and  the  stars  to  shine.  The  only  thing  you  have  to  do  to 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


make  a  fusion  reactor  work  is  reproduce  here  on  Earth  the 
conditions  in  the  interior  of  the  sun.  Quite  a  trick!  You 
need  a  plasma  —  this  is  a  state  of  matter  that  is  different 
from  a  gas,  it's  an  electrically  conducting  gas  —  you  must 
produce  a  hydrogen  plasma  at  anywhere  from  20  million  to 
100  million  degrees  and  just  hold  it  together  somehow  (the 
usual  way  to  do  it  is  with  a  "magnetic  bottle"),  hold  it 
together  long  enough  so  its  gives  off  enough  power  to  make 
the  whole  thing  worth  doing.  The  best  physicists  in  the 
world  have  been  working  on  this  since  about  1945.  They 
are  trembling  on  the  edge  of  producing  a  sustained  fusion 
reaction  in  the  laboratory.  This  is  one  area  where  scientists 
from  all  over  the  world  are  cooperating.  Russian,  British, 
Indian,  American,  and  I  think  eventually  Chinese,  scientists 
are  all  working  together  and  sharing  their  results.  It  is  also 
an  area  that  is  curiously  underfunded  considering  the 
importance  of  the  results.  The  United  States  today  spends 
about  $150  million  per  year  on  fusion  research.  This  is 
about  the  cost  of  a  few  jet  fighters,  or  the  spare  parts  for 
the  Hawk  missile  per  year.  I  won't  even  compare  it  to  our 
"bubble  gum"  expenditures  —  say  cigarettes  —  there  is  no 
comparison  at  all. 

The  best  physicists  in  the  world  have 
been  working  on  this  since  about  1945. 
They  are  trembling  on  the  brink  of  produc- 
ing a  sustained  fusion  reaction  in  the  labora- 
tory. 


If  we  can  produce  a  fusion  reactor,  we  will  be  able  to 
take  its  "fuel"  from  the  ocean,  a  heavy  form  of  hydrogen 
called  deuterium,  and  produce  electricity  from  it.  There  is 
enough  deuterium  in  the  oceans  to  produce  a  million  times 
more  electricity  than  we  use  now  for  the  next  billion  years, 
so  that  fuel  will  be  relatively  cheap  and  abundant.  We  will 
be  able  to  revolutionize  the  way  we  live.  The  fusion  process 
is  rather  low  on  pollution;  most  of  the  radioactivity 
produced  is  contained  right  within  the  reactor  itself.  The 
major  waste-product  from  the  fusion  reactor  is  helium, 
which  we  can  use  to  blow  up  balloons  or  cool  down 
superconducting  magnets,  and  the  power  output  is  going  to 
be  staggering.  We  may  see  a  time  when  power  will  be  cheap 
enough  to  desalt  sea  water  in  California  and  pipe  it  inland 
to  the  Mohave  Desert. 

Something  else  that  is  important  is  that  we  will  be  able 
to  stop  digging  up  coal  and  drilling  oil  wells  and  even 
digging  uranium,  because  the  power  source  will  come  from 
the  sea  itself  and  can  be  had  very  easily.  More  than  that,  a 
couple  of  AEC  physicists  have  proposed  something  called 
the  fusion  torch,  which  essentially  takes  the  tremendous 
energy  of  the  fusion  plasma  and  uses  it  as  a  garbage-disposal 
unit.  But  here  the  garbage  could  be  anything  you  want. 
You  throw  in  an  automobile  (it's  a  little  more  complicated 
than  I'm  going  to  make  it  here)  and  you  produce  a  plasma 
of  iron  atoms,  chromium  atoms,  carbon  atoms,  what  have 
you,  which  can  then  be  separated  out  into  pure  elemental 
forms  so  you  end  up  with  a  box  of  pure  iron,  a  box  of  pure 
chromium,  and  whatever  else  is  there.  This  means  thai  we 
can  recycle  things  with  a  vengeance;  it  means  that  we  may 


With  the  fusion  torch,  we  may  not  need 
to  do  much  more  mining  for  resources, 
especially  for  metals.  We  can  recycle  things 
with  a  vengeance. 


not  need  to  do  much  more  mining  for  resources,  especially 
for  metals.  Even  if  it's  only  half  as  good  as  promised,  it 
could  have  a  decided  effect  on  the  way  we  handle  our 
economy  and  the  way  we  handle  our  environment. 

People  have  talked  about  fusion  as  being  a  source  of 
almost  limitless  power,  and  I  think  that  can  be  true.  It  will 
eventually  be  very  cheap  power  as  well,  and  I  think  this  is 
going  to  be  the  key  to  changing  the  way  we  live.  The 
important  thing  to  me  is  that  it  will  be  power  with  very, 
very  little  pollution,  and  this  I  think  will  be  the  really 
important  change.  We  may  have  reached  a  point,  if  we  can 
achieve  fusion,  where  we  have  broken  through  and  can  have 
the  kind  of  technology  that  we  want  without  gutting  the 
planet  any  further.  And  that  would  be  very  worthwhile 
doing. 

Now  all  of  this  is  very  interesting,  but  perhaps  the 
biggest  menace  that  we  face  is  something  going  on  right 
now  in  our  biology  and  chemistry  labs.  This  is  the 
potentiality  of  something  called  genetic  engineering.  Over 
the  past  twenty  years  the  biochemists  and  geneticists  have 
essentially  cracked  the  genetic  code.  They  know  now  how 
the  reproductive  material  in  your  body  works,  how  it 
produces  more  of  you.  If  you  watch  television  and  you  read 
the  papers,  you  see  advertisements  by  the  National  Dairy 
Council  on  how  "There's  a  new  you  coming  every  day," 
how  every  day  the  DNA  in  your  body  is  making  more  of 
you.  You  are  ingesting  all  sorts  of  things  (hopefully  milk), 
your  digestive  system  breaks  these  down  into  amino  acids, 
and  the  DNA  in  your  cells  realigns  these  amino  acids,  puts 


THE  WPI  JOURNAl 


them  together  like  a  different  jigsaw  puzzle  and  produces 
more  of  your  own  particular  kind  of  protein. 

Now  geneticists  and  biochemists  are  learning  how  to  do 
this  in  the  laboratory.  The  hope  is  that  eventually  they  will 
be  able  to  spot  defects  in  your  genes,  your  reproductive 
chemicals,  and  correct  them.  For  example,  there  are  some 
birth  defects  that  could  be  corrected  while  the  unborn  child 
is  still  just  a  couple  of  cells  big.  If  this  could  be  done  it 
would  be  a  tremendous  boon;  but  consider  the  conse- 
quences. 

It  may  be  possible  to  produce  a  perfect  human  being: 
physically  perfect,  mentally  as  brilliant  as  you  can  make 
him.  It  could  also  be  possible  to  produce  a  race  of  very 
muscular  but  dim-witted  slaves.  This  is  rather  far-fetched 
and  nobody  really  knows  how  to  do  it  today.  But  the 
possibility  is  there.  The  power  is  there,  when  we  can  begin 
to  tinker  with  our  own  heredity,  to  produce  the  kinds  of 
people  we  want  in  the  colors,  sizes,  and  shapes  that  we 
want.  This  may  be  more  power  than  any  political  system 
that  we  can  think  of  today  has  a  right  to  own. 


The  power  is  there,  when  we  can  begin 
to  tinker  with  our  own  heredity,  to  produce 
the  kinds  of  people  we  want  in  the  colors, 
sizes,  and  shapes  that  we  want.  This  may  be 
more  power  than  any  political  system  that 
we  can  think  of  today  has  a  right  to  own. 


If  we  turn  our  backs  on  technology, 
most  of  the  people  in  the  world  today  would 
die.  I  don't  think  there  is  any  road  back.  The 
question  is:  Where  do  we  go  from  here? 


I  don't  think  there  is  any  road  back.  The  question  is: 
Where  do  we  go  from  here?  We  can  find  many,  many 
potential  scenarios  for  what  the  future  is  like  in  science 
fiction.  Many  people  have  called  science  fiction  escape 
literature.  Isaac  Asimov  once  said,  "Science  fiction  is  escape 
literature.  It's  escape  into  reality.  It's  tomorrow's  reality." 
Not  all  of  those  stories  are  going  to  come  true,  but  some  of 
them  are  pretty  close  to  the  truth.  If  we  want  to  take  a 
look  at  what's  coming  up,  a  preview  of  coming  attractions, 
science  fiction  is  a  reasonable  place  to  look. 

Finally,  I  would  like  to  quote  something  that  Prof. 
Frederick  Smith  in  the  School  of  Design  at  Harvard  said 
once.  He  was  mumbling  about  the  dangers  of  pollution, 
overpopulation,  and  war,  many  of  the  things  I've  talked 
about  here,  and  someone  said:  "Well,  it  really  looks  like 
man  is  doomed."  And  Professor  Smith  said,  "Yes  .  .  .  but 
he's  doomed  to  live."  None  of  these  things  are  going  to  kill 
everybody,  and  since  we  are  going  to  live  we  had  better 
learn  how  to  do  it  the  best  we  can. 


Many  of  the  world's  leading  biochemists  and  geneticists 
are  already  asking  themselves  and  their  colleagues  and  even 
the  public:  What  should  we  do?  Should  we  continue  these 
lines  of  investigation?  How  do  we  handle  this  power  once 
we  have  it?  A  very  basic  question  arises  here,  on  how  we  are 
going  to  deal  with  the  science  and  technology  that  we  have 
developed. 

There  are  many  people  who  look  at  the  world  as  it  is 
today,  with  the  problems  of  war,  pollution,  population,  and 
everything  else,  and  say  that  technology  may  not  be  to 
blame  for  all  of  it  but  certainly  technology  and  science  have 
played  a  very  large  role  in  producing  these  problems  and 
therefore  should  be  turned  off.  I  don't  know  of  any  way  of 
turning  off  science  and  technology  without  killing  most  of 
the  people  alive  today.  This  planet  can't  support  three 
going  on  four  billion  people  without  the  kind  of  technology 
that  we  now  have.  We  have  grown  accustomed  to  a  very 
strong  technological  society.  We  eat  foods  that  are  brought 
from  thousands  of  miles  away,  we  wear  clothing  that  is 
produced  in  factories  rather  than  farms,  we  travel  and  live 
in  an  energy-rich  society.  We  live  longer,  eat  better,  are 
cured  of  diseases,  get  old  enough  to  pose  problems  such  as 
should  we  give  a  person  an  artificial  heart  or  let  him  die. 
These  are  all  new  problems  because  this  is  the  first  time 
people  are  living  this  long  in  large  numbers,  large  enough  to 
make  it  count.  If  we  did  turn  our  backs  on  technology, 
most  of  the  people  in  the  world  today  would  die;  they 
would  starve  or  die  of  disease. 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


"the  reality  was  better  than  the  dream  . . .  y 


INTERSESSION 

1972 

by  Ruth  Trask 


JANUARY  1972  WAS  NOT  a  usual  month  at  WPI.  Prof. 
David  P.  McKay  directed  musicians  playing  his  original 
musical  score  at  the  Higgins  estate.  Graduate  student 
Robert  C.  Rittenhouse  was  the  first  student  member  of  his 
mountaineering  group  to  reach  the  summit  of  Wildcat 
Mountain  in  the  White  Mountains  of  New  Hampshire. 
(Temperature  reading:  -11  degrees!)  And  college  trustee 
John  W.  Coghlin  of  the  class  of  1919  visited  the  Brother- 
hood of  the  Spirit  commune.  All  three  men  pursued  their 
diverse  activities  while  participating  in  one  of  the  brightest 
facets  of  the  WPI  Plan  —  Intersession  1972. 

By  any  method  of  measurement,  Intersession  (a  creative 
approach  to  learning)  was  an  astounding  success.  Critics  of 
the  Plan  in  general  and  Intersession  in  particular  might  well 
have  second  thoughts.  Their  basic  thesis  was:  "You'll  never 
be  able  to  get  undergraduates  to  do  anything  they  are  not 
specifically  required  to  do.  In  January  you'll  see  an  empty 
campus.  Everybody  will  be  in  Fort  Lauderdale." 

January  came  and  everybody  was  not  in  Fort  Lauder- 
dale. Over  70  percent  of  the  student  body  signed  up  to  take 
the  purely  voluntary  three-day-a-week  galaxy  of  courses 
that  constituted  Intersession.  Professors  who  were  worried 
about  "no-shows"  found  themselves  pleasantly  concerned 
with  "more-shows."  Prof.  Donald  N.  Zwiep  expected 
sixteen  students  for  his  "Refresher  Course  for  EIT  Exami- 
nations." Forty-two  showed  up!  Prof.  Donald  Johnson  and 
Prof.  Arthur  Back  had  to  provide  extra  last-minute  trans- 
portation for  the  overflow  of  people  who  appeared  to  take 
their  "Technology  and  the  Community:  Old  Sturbridge 
Village  —  A  Case  Study  in  Social  History." 

Sturbridge 

Enthusiasm  was  the  basic  thread  that  ran  through  all  of 
Intersession.  The  Sturbridge  trip  is  a  case  in  point.  A  more 
dismal  day  weatherwise  could  scarce!)  be  imagined  for  the 
outdoor  venture.  Fog  shrouded  the  Early  American 
community  as  the  WPI  contingent  slogged  through  boggily 
"authentic"  unpaved  streets  to  the  dist;mt  farm  site. 


Once  at  their  destination  the  group  members  attentively 
listened  to  a  sometimes  scholarly,  sometimes  witty,  and 
invariably  informative  dissertation  on  "Sheep  shearing  and 
wool  scouring  prior  to  1840."  (Would  anyone  present  ever 
forget  the  mind-flipping  fact  that  only  four  generations  ago 
sheared  wool  was  "washed"  in  boiling  animal  urine  which 
incredibly  forbearing  workers  agitated  in  a  huge  vat,  usually 
by  hand,  but  occasionally  by  foot?)  Their  enthusiasm 
dampened  neither  by  the  pungent  barnyard  lore  nor  the 
fine  falling  rain,  the  participants  made  their  way  to  the 
spinning  room. 

Following  a  detailed  discussion  of  hand  processes  and 
subsequent  mechanizations  utilized  in  the  early  days  of  the 
American  wool  industry,  the  group  toured  a  140-year-old 
wool-carding  mill  that  was  previously  located  in  Maine.  All 
were  amazed  to  learn  that  the  wood-rollered  carding 
machine  had  been  in  active  service  right  up  through  the 
1950's  and  was  still  in  workable  condition  today. 

Sturbridge,  with  its  meticulously  restored  buildings  and 
workable  artifacts,  was  an  exciting  and  memorable  intro- 
duction to  Intersession.  It  gave  the  "Now"  generation  an 
opportunity  to  see  how  things  were  actually  done  way  back 
"Then."  It  also  helped  to  create  a  better  understanding  of 
how  today's  industrial  society  came  into  being. 


Fiction  Into  Films 

Students  enrolled  in  Prof.  Arthur  Kennedy's  popular 
course,  "Fiction  Into  Films,"  were  treated  to  the  film 
version  of  John  Steinbeck's  powerful  novel.  East  aj  Eden, 
The  questions  posed  by  the  decades-old  novel  and 
seventeen-year-old  movie  still  seem  highly  relevant  to 
family  life  situations  today.  For  example  should  a  child  be 
made  to  feel  he  is  unloved  or  unwanted  because  he  is 
"different"  or  allegedly  "bad"?  What  about  showing 
favoritism  to  one  child  at  (he  expense  "I  .mother?  Can  .i 
parent's  fictionalizing  the  past  ever  be  justified? 


10 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


These  questions  made  up  the  warp  and  woof  of  the 
Steinbeck  novel  and  did  not  suffer  too  much  when 
somewhat  loosely  translated  into  the  stunning  film  version. 

The  film  forcibly  brought  the  trials  and  tribulations  of 
the  beleaguered  Trask  family  into  full  focus  for  the  rapt 
audience.  At  the  conclusion  of  the  film  nearly  everyone, 
from  football  player  to  co-ed,  walked  rapidly  and  misty- 
eyed  toward  the  exit. 

"Oh,"  a  girl  breathed.  "James  Dean.  He  was  wonder- 
ful." 

Some  of  the  older  feminine  observers  swallowed 
audibly.  A  half  a  generation  ago,  before  Dean  met  his 
untimely  death,  they  had  felt  exactly  the  same  way.  On  the 
subject  of  one  of  the  most  appealing  of  yesterday's  heroes 
there  appeared  to  be  no  generation  gap. 


Antennas 

After  a  directional  antenna  system  has  been  designed  and 
built  for  a  broadcasting  station,  the  FCC  requires  that  its 
performance  be  proved.  This  regulation  provided  an  excel- 
lent opportunity  for  the  students  in  Prof.  Donald  Howe's 
course,  "Design  and  Testing  of  M.  F.  Directional  Antenna 
Arrays,"  to  test  classroom  theory  against  the  natural 
elements  and  the  variable  and  often  unknown  factors 
encountered  in  real  life. 

The  second  day  of  the  course  was  devoted  to  determin- 
ing the  signal  strength  of  the  WORC  radiated  signal  in  a  due 
north  direction.  Since  the  strength  of  the  received  signal  at 
any  point  is  a  function  of  the  characteristics  of  the  terrain 
and  the  distance,  as  well  as  of  the  actual  signal  transmitted, 
the  group  had  to  make  many  measurements  at  distances 
from  one-half  to  twenty  miles  away. 

Prof.  Howe  was  scheduled  to  take  delivery  of  a  new 
measuring  instrument,  but  it  did  not  arrive  in  time.  Instead, 
the  tests  were  conducted  with  an  old  set  built  in  193  3  by 
Professor  Emeritus  Hobart  Newell,  '18,  for  radio  station 
WTAG. 

It  was  a  rather  strange  caravan:  two  cars  filled  with 
students  and  topographic  maps,  followed  by  Prof.  Howe's 
Saab  decked  out  with  an  old-fashioned  loop  antenna 
pivoted  on  the  outside  and  the  inside  crammed  so  full  of 
equipment  that  there  was  barely  room  for  a  second  person 
to  take  notes.  Whenever  the  lead  car  found  a  good  place  to 
measure  —  every  half  mile  or  so,  where  the  area  was  free 
from  overhead  wires  —  the  caravan  ground  to  a  halt.  Hasty 
conferences  were  held,  punctuated  by  the  emergence  of  a 
hand  from  the  Saab's  window  to  turn  the  loop  in  the 
process  of  measuring  the  field  strength. 

"It  was  quite  a  trip,"  Prof.  Howe  recounts.  "In  our  zeal 
to  keep  right  on  the  line,  we  went  through  a  pig  farm  and 
another  time  almost  got  mired  in  an  ice  covered  mud-hole 
on  a  narrow  wooded  road.  At  one  point  we  almost  had  to 
be  bailed  out  for  trespassing  on  a  private  road." 

As  the  group  made  its  last  measurement,  the  failing  sun 
allowed  some  sky-wave  flutter  to  interfere.  Exhausted  and 
satisfied,  the  group  made  a  bee-line  back  to  WPI  for  supper. 

The  results  were  plotted  that  evening,  and  they  hardly 
resembled  a  Sommerfeld  ground-wave  attenuation  curve  for 
New  England  "standard"  soil.  But  the  students  were  able  to 
support  WORC's  claim  that  their  antenna  was  now  radiating 


Melodic  Structure  of  Indian  Classical  Music. 


more  efficiently  than  when  it  was  originally  built.  And  the 
"bump"  on  the  curve  provoked  a  lot  of  discussion  of 
reasons  why  the  theory  is  inadequate  to  cover  actual 
operation  of  such  antennas. 

The  Commune 

A  hand-painted  sign  saying  No  Drugs,  No  Liquor,  No 
Smoking  greeted  students  taking  "Living  in  a  Commune"  as 
their  bus  pulled  up  before  the  purple  Colonial  house. 
Nearby  stood  a  huge  natural-wood  dormitory  roofed  with 
rainbow-colored  shingles.  Between  the  dormitory  and  the 
house  stretched  a  muddy  parking  area  scattered  with  a 
variety  of  nondescript  vehicles  in  various  stages  of  repair. 
The  bus  parked  and  31  representatives  of  WPI  got  out. 
After  a  circuitous  route  from  Worcester  to  Warwick,  Mass., 
they  had  finally  made  it  to  The  Brotherhood  of  the  Spirit 
Commune. 

"Ted,"  tall  and  tousled,  met  the  group  and  led  them 
into  the  dormitory  living  room  where  they  were  seated  on 
long  wooden  benches.  A  stunning  blue  and  purple  tapestry 
adorned  the  main  wall.  Open  balconies  ran  along  the  other 
sides  of  the  two-story  room. 

"We  built  this  place,"  one  of  the  bearded  members  said. 
"We  tore  down  a  barn  and  used  the  beams.  Even  the 
siding."  He  looked  proud,  as  he  had  a  right  to  be.  The 
building  was  rustic  and,  sanitarily  speaking,  downright 
primitive,  but  it  was  sound  and  quite  beautiful  with  its  old 
hand-hewn  atmosphere  deftly  highlighted  by  splashes  of 
modern  art. 

"Michael,"  who  appeared  to  be  one  of  the  major 
spokesmen  for  the  commune,  explained  what  The  Brother- 
hood of  the  Spirit  was  all  about.  He  said  that  three  years 
ago  an  18-year-old  drop-out  had  started  the  community  as 
an  alternative  to  American  life  as  we  know  it  today.  A 
spiritual  philosophy  (and  belief  in  reincarnation)  was  the 
basis  on  which  the  commune  was  built.  Anyone  in  the 
community  could  believe  in  whatever  "God"  he  wished  as 
long  as  love  and  brotherhood  were  the  cornerstones  of  his 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


11 


Living  in  a  Commune — photo  by  Kenneth  Johnson,  '73. 


belief.  If  anybody  had  any  gripes 
about  how  things  were  going  in 
the  community,  he  had  to  rid 
himself  of  them  in  encounter- 
type  discussions.  There  was  to  be 
no  violence  of  any  kind.  And  no 
competition. 

At  first  the  members  tried  to 
live  exclusively  to  themselves 
but  soon  discovered  that  they 
had  to  branch  out  in  order  to 
survive.  Their  most  successful 
"branch"  to  date  is  their  rock 
group,  Spirit  in  Flesh,  which  has 
appeared  on  national  television 
and  has  cut  a  number  of  hit 
records.  The  band  is  now  com- 
pletely self-supporting. 

Commune  members  also 
hold  part-time  jobs  in  surround- 
ing towns  to  help  bring  in  extra 
revenue.  They  grow  their  own 
vegetables,  keep  a  cow,  and  did 
have  some  laying  hens.  "When 
the  hens  stopped  laying,  we  had 
to  get  rid  of  them,"  a  girl  whis- 
pered. She  laughed.  "Tonight 
we're  having  chicken  soup!" 

Michael,  his  talk  finished, 
told  the  students  they  were  wel- 
come to  go  anywhere  they 
wished  on  the  premises.  They 
were  free  to  go  through  the 
living  quarters,  the  art  studio, 
the  jewelry  craft  room  or  over  to 
the  purple  house  where  the 
kitchen  and  dining  facilities  were 
located. 

Hospitality  was  extended  to 
the  students  everywhere  they 
went.  Ideas  flew  thick  and  fast 
between  the  young  wanderers 
who  had  had  to  flee  from  the 
pressure  of  established  society 
and  their  visitors  who  were 
trying  to  make  their  way  within 
it. 

"What  about  your  parents?" 
the  members  were  asked. 

"We  keep  in  touch,"  some 
replied. 

"How  do  they  feel  about 
your  being  here?" 

"Heart-broken,  but  better 
than  before." 

"Before,"  it  was  learned,  was 
when  they  were  on  drugs.  Vir- 
tually every  person  living  in  the 
commune  had  been  involved 
with  the  drug  scene  and  had 
come  to  Warwick  looking  for  a 
second  chance. 


12 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


"I  am  a  high  school  drop-out,"  a  pretty  blonde  in  the 
jewelry  room  said.  "I  lived  all  over  the  country  before  I 
heard  of  The  Brotherhood  of  the  Spirit."  She  smiled.  "I'm 
glad  I  found  it." 

A  vivacious  black  girl  wearing  a  blue  bandanna  told  a 
similar  story.  "One  day  I  came  up  from  New  York  City," 
she  said.  "I  just  stayed  on  and  never  went  back."  She 
pointed  to  an  orange  velvet  board  covered  with  striking 
multi-colored  jewelry.  "That's  what  they  taught  me  to  do 
here,"  she  went  on.  "I  never  knew  I  could  do  anything  like 
that  before." 

Up  in  the  artist's  loft  yet  another  tale  was  being  told. 
An  intense  young  man  with  deep-set  piercing  eyes  spoke 
quietly  yet  joyfully  about  the  success  of  the  band.  "Not 
that  I  care  about  seeing  my  puss  on  some  magazine  cover," 
he  explained.  "It's  just  that  I'm  glad  we're  working  things 
out  right  together.  Maybe,  somehow,  our  music  will  help 
spread  the  message  of  peace  and  love." 

His  attention  turned  to  his  female  assistant  and  the 
Christmas  card  samples  spread  out  on  the  work  table. 
Somebody  had  mentioned  how  uniquely  beautiful  they 
were. 

"We  had  to  stop  making  them,"  he  said.  "After  making 
and  selling  5,000  of  them  we  simply  couldn't  do  any 
more."  Again  the  feeling  of  accomplishment  was  apparent 
in  his  voice. 

So,  the  self-imposed  exiles  of  The  Brotherhood  of  the 
Spirit  are  making  it  in  their  own  way.  They  are  now  rushing 
toward  life  and  not  from  it.  Their  way  is  not  easy.  It  is 
bitter-sweet  at  best  —  devoid  of  creature  comforts  and 
primarily  unplanned  and  unpredictable.  But  there  is  a  spirit 
of  true   brotherhood   in   the    community.  And  the  com- 


The  Creative  Imagination  in  Philosophy  and  Poetry,  with  trustee 
H.  Ladd  Plumley  participating. 


^ 


Urban  Simulation  Gaming. 


munity  is  made  up  of  young  people  who  are  not  all  that 
different  from  those  we  see  every  day. 

WPI  trustee  John  W.  Coghlin  had  an  experience  at  the 
commune  that  aptly  illustrates  the  point.  Interested  and 
affable,  he  spoke  with  as  many  members  as  he  could 
throughout  the  afternoon  and  invariably  asked,  "Do  your 
parents  approve  of  your  being  here?" 

"No,"  was  the  usual  answer,  and  Coghlin  responded 
with  "Just  keep  in  touch  with  them." 

"And  what  about  you?  Is  it  all  right  with  your  folks 
that  you're  here?"  he  asked  the  long-haired  youth  standing 
next  to  him. 

"Yes  sir,"  the  boy  replied  with  a  grin. 

Coghlin,  taken  aback  at  this  development,  asked  the 
boy  how  long  he  had  been  at  the  commune. 

"About  twenty  minutes.  I  rode  up  on  the  bus  with 
you." 

It  was  time  to  go.  The  bus  pulled  out  of  the  parking  lot 
past  the  hand-painted  sign  saying  No  Drugs,  No  Liquor,  No 
Smoking.  Just  for  a  fleeting  moment  it  looked  as  though 
one  more  taboo  had  been  added  in  parentheses.  It  looked 
like  it  said  (No  Soap). 

Special  Relativity 

At  the  time  he  proposed  his  course  in  special  relativity, 
Prof.  Van  Bluemel  said,  "If  we  get  five  students  we'll  hold 
the  course;  if  we  only  get  two  we  should  cancel  it."  Prof. 
Bluemel's  expectations  received  a  severe  jolt  when  Inter- 
session  registration  was  completed:  seventy  students 
registered,  and  over  fifty  remained  throughout  the  course. 

Originally  planned  as  a  seminar,  Profs.  Bluemel  and 
Robert  Long  were  forced  into  more  of  a  lecture  pres- 
entation. 

"I  was  surprised,  though,  at  the  amount  of  really  fine 
give-and-take  that  developed.  Some  of  the  students  really 
didn't  seem  to  have  expected  much  from  us.  But  they  did 
seem  surprised  that  Bob  Long  and  I  would  sit  down  on  the 


•HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


13 


lecture  table  and  more  or  less  shoot  the  bull  with  the  kids 
about  the  subject,"  Bluemel  recounts.  "Of  course,  I  think  it 
helped  that  it  was  a  subject  in  which  the  students  could 
very  easily  come  up  with  questions  that  would  stump  the 
professors!" 

The  students  were  quite  interested  in  the  paradoxes  of 
relativity  theory,  such  as  the  increase  of  mass  and  what 
happens  to  clocks  when  traveling  near  the  speed  of  light. 
Prof.  C.  William  Shipman  commented,  "It's  too  bad  we 
can't  take  relativistic  field  trips  to  demonstrate  some  of 
these  phenomena." 


Construction  of  Harpsichords. 


Career  Development 

"I  didn't  realize  that  I  wave  my  hands  like  that  when  I 
talk,"  the  disgruntled  future  job-seeker  said.  "When  the 
recruiters  get  to  me  I'm  going  to  keep  my  hands  folded  on 
the  desk.  Or  in  my  lap."  He  looked  at  his  image  on  the 
closed-circuit  TV  set  with  considerable  disgust. 

"Your  voice  sounded  good,"  the  fellow  sitting  next  to 
him  remarked  encouragingly. 

"But  you  could  be  a  ventriloquist,"  observed  a  critic. 
"You  hardly  moved  your  lips.  I  could  hear  you  talking.  But 
I  couldn't  see  you." 

The  praise  and  the  criticism  were  all  part  of  Dean 
William  Trask's  "Career  Development"  course  which  was 
designed,  in  part,  to  help  students  see  themselves  as  others 
(especially  recruiters)  see  them.  Those  taking  the  course 
had  each  been  subjected  to  a  pseudo-job  interview  given  by 
Prof.  Lyle  Wimmergren  who  had  purposely  spared  no 
punches  in  his  probing  and  sometimes  highly  personal  line 
of  questioning.  "Have  to  keep  them  on  their  toes,"  he 
explained. 

The  results  of  the  televised  individual  interviews 
brought  a  number  of  truths  to  light. 

"You  answered  with  too  many  vague  generalities,"  a 
young  man  was  criticized.  "Know  your  strengths  and 
weaknesses.  Know  what  you  have  to  offer  a  company." 

"And  it  wouldn't  hurt  if  you  read  the  literature  the 
company  sent  you  more  thoroughly  before  going  to  the 
interview,"  another  added. 


"Did  I  do  anything  right?"  the  boy  asked  despairingly. 

"Your  clothes  looked  neat,  but  that  hair  ..."  came  the 
reply. 

"My  hair?"  he  groaned. 

"It  should  be  cut.  Most  recruiters  are  over  forty  and 
they  don't  like  long  hair.  I'm  not  sure  why.  They  just 
don't." 

The  boy  shook  his  head. 

At  last  the  morning  of  self-evaluation  was  over  and 
everyone  filed  out  into  the  hallway.  The  student  who  had 
been  particularly  distressed  over  his  TV  performance 
looked  surprisingly  happy.  Almost  smug. 

"What  happened?"-  he  was  asked.  "Did  you  just  get  a 
good  idea  on  how  to  handle  your  real  job  interview?" 

"Yes,"  he  beamed.  "I'm  going  to  graduate  school!" 

The  Tudor  Interlude 

Sixteenth-century  playwright  John  Heywood  would  have 
been  proud.  His  comic  interlude,  The  Play  of  the  Weather, 
was  performed  with  appropriately  irreverent  gusto  by 
drama  students  studying  "The  Tudor  Interlude"  during 
Intersession. 

Staged  in  the  great  baronial  hall  at  the  Higgins  estate, 
the  production  retained  much  of  the  atmosphere  of  the 
original  setting.  Music  specially  composed  and  directed  by 
Prof.  David  McKay  set  the  heraldic  mood  of  the  piece  and 
the  dazzling  period  costumes  also  added  flavor  and 
authenticity. 

The  Play  of  the  Weather  (1533)  is  a  mild  satire  on 
Henry  VIII  and  spotlights  the  absurdity  and  selfishness  of 
English  society  during  his  reign.  It  was  written  to  be 
performed  before  the  king  and  his  court. 


The  Tudor  Interlude. 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Students  had  a  relatively  free  hand  in  recreating  the 
work  as  there  are  no  surviving  stage  directions  or  produc- 
tion notes  for  the  play.  Under  the  direction  of  Prof. 
Theodore  Packard,  they  experimented  with  various  levels  of 
action  and  integrated  into  the  production  such  innovations 
as  the  canopied  platform  (the  acting  cart  of  strolling 
players).  They  also  assisted  with  the  staging,  costumes,  and 
lighting,  the  whole  project  being  coordinated  by  Prof. 
Edmund  M.  Hayes. 

The  end  result  of  all  these  efforts  was  a  glittering  and 
entertaining  performance  fit  for  a  king.  Yes,  John  Heywood 
surely  would  have  been  proud. 

Bachelor  Cooking 

Eleven  prospective  "Galloping  Gourmets"  developed  skill  in 
the  culinary  arts  (as  well  as  expanded  waistlines!)  while 
taking  "Bachelor  Cooking:  Survival  to  Gourmet." 

Under  the  creative  tutelage  of  Mrs.  Charlene  Sokal  and 
Dr.  Lance  E.  Schachterle,  the  eleven  students  learned  the 
basics    of   selecting,    preparing,    and   serving  a   number  of 

HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


interesting,  well-planned  meals.  The  emphasis  was  placed  on 
quality  but  there  was  always  a  generous  quantity  of  food 
available.  (Of  course  it's  only  a  malicious  rumor  that  during 
one  session  20  pounds  of  chicken  was  purchased,  prepared 
and  promptly  consumed!) 

One  of  the  first  on-site  lessons  took  place  in  a  local 
supermarket  where  students  were  instructed  in  the  why's 
and  wherefore's  of  shopping  for  meats  and  produce.  Later, 
in  a  spice  house,  they  were  introduced  to  the  heady  world 
of  herbs  and  spices  so  that  they  would  be  better  able  to 
understand  how  the  taste  of  a  dish  is  altered  by  substituting 
or  omitting  various  seasonings. 

To  more  aptly  illustrate  differences  in  taste,  a  cut  of 
beef  was  prepared  in  class  by  four  various  methods:  basic 
beef  stew,  beef  braised  in  beer,  boeuf  bourguignonne,  and 
beef  marinade.  The  "tasteful"  experiment  was  an  un- 
qualified success.  There  were  no  leftovers! 

Class  members  had  the  opportunity  to  work  with  a 
variety  of  materials  and  cookware,  including  cast  iron, 
porcelain,  stainless,  and  copper,  thereby  learning  from 
experience  which  material  was  best  suited  for  a  specific 
mode  of  cooking.  They  were  also  acquainted  with  catalogs 
for  gourmet  cookery  items  and  instructed  on  how  to 
interpret  recipes  and  understand  cookbook  phraseology. 

French  cooking  and  lavish  desserts  were  among  the  pet 
passions  of  the  up-and-coming  chefs.  "They  were  very 
serious  and  diligent  about  making  French  bread,  cherries 
jubilee,  and  a  chocolate  mousse,  the  success  of  which 
greatly  surprised  them,"  Mrs.  Sokal  said. 


The  Tudor  Interlude. 
15 


A  simple  dessert  with  a  gourmet  appearance  is  "Pears  in 
Red  Wine"  which  falls  into  the  same  general  category  as 
most  of  the  "Bachelor  Cooking"  concoctions.  It  is  not 
made  from  a  standard  cookbook  recipe. 


Pears  in  Red  Wine 

(Also  a  delicious  complement  for  roasted  meat) 

1  No.  2Vi  can  pear  halves 
IVi  cups  burgundy  wine 

or  enough  to  cover 

pears 
V2  cup  red  currant  jelly 

Vt  cup  sugar 

2  cinnamon  sticks 

Drain  pears  and  place  in  a  deep  bowl.  Heat  wine  to  a  simmer. 
Add  jelly  and  sugar  stirring  over  medium  heat  until  jelly  melts  and 
sugar  dissolves.  Add  cinnamon  sticks  and  pour  mixture  over  pears. 
When  cool,  cover  bowl  and  refrigerate.  The  pears  should  stand  a 
minimum  of  six  hours.  (Overnight  is  better.)  If  a  more  tart  taste  is 
desired,  omit  sugar.  Serves  four  to  six. 

Although  the  enjoying  of  fancy  cookery  was  usually 
uppermost  in  their  minds,  the  students  didn't  forget 
altogether  that  they  were  basically  scientists.  They  were 
very  inquisitive  as  to  why  some  recipes  worked  and  some 
didn't.  Also  they  were  genuinely  interested  in  learning  what 
preservatives  are  and  what  effect  they  have  on  the  taste  of 
food  and  the  end  result  of  a  recipe. 

Anyway,  from  all  reports,  "Bachelor  Cooking"  was  one 
course  the  participants  wouldn't  have  missed  for  anything. 
You  might  say  they  ate  it  up. 


Winter  Mountaineering  Expedition 

"Difficulties  made  the  trip,"  said  Dr.  Philip  E.  Stevenson 
upon  his  return  from  the  winter  mountaineering  expedi- 
tion. Neither  gale  force  winds  nor  sub-zero  temperature 
daunted  the  spirits  of  the  two  student  groups  which  he  and 
Dr.  Robert  E.  Wagner  led  into  the  frigid  embrace  of  New 
Hampshire's  White  Mountains  during  Intersession. 

Well  prepared  through  survival  procedures  discussed  and 
practiced  in  the  prerequisite  course,  "Winter  Mountain- 
eering Workshop",  the  near-novices  followed  their  veteran 
leaders  into  two  different  mountain  ranges.  Dr.  Wagner's 
12-man  group  climbed  the  Wildcat  Range,  survived  near- 
ninety-mile-per-hour  winds,  stayed  the  night,  and  de- 
scended the  next  day. 

Dr.  Stevenson's  7-man,  2-girl  group  made  a  three-day, 
two-night  expedition  into  the  Twin  and  Bond  Range. 
Although  they  stuck  to  well-marked  trails,  the  juggling  of 
50-pound  back  packs  and  the  maneuvering  of  unaccus- 
tomed showshoes  posed  somewhat  of  a  problem  in  the 
ascent  of  the  4,000  ft.  North  Twin.  Finally  the  climbers 
conquered  not  only  North  Twin  but  also  South  Twin  and 
the  windswept  Mt.  Guyot  their  first  day  out.  That  night 
they  slept  in  a  National  Forest  shelter  which  consisted  of 
3 Vi  sides,  a  roof,  and  a  large,  open  doorway.  "Dinner"  was  a 
back-pack  meal  cooked  on  portable  gasoline  stoves  and 
"drinking  water"  was  melted  snow. 

The  following  morning  (temperature,  —13  degrees; 
winds,  50  m.p.h.  in  the  open;  that's  .1  wind-chill  factor  of 
75  degrees  below  zero!)  Dr.  Stevenson  led  a  hardy  band  of 
four,  including  one  girl,  to  the  summits  of  Mt.  Bond,  the 
almost  inaccessible  West  Bond,  anil  Zealand  Mountain.  The 
rest  of  the  students  spent  a  day  of  rest  and  relaxation  back 
it  the  lean-to  where  the  returning  climbers  joined  them  for 
their  second  night  out. 


16 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Outfitting  for  the  White  Mountains. 


The  morning  of  the  third  day  the  high  winds  finally 
spent  themselves  and  the  mercury  rose  to  an  inviting  8 
degrees  above  zero.  At  5:15  a.m.,  without  any  prodding, 
everyone  rose,  fixed  breakfast,  and  broke  camp.  By  7:30 
a.m.  they  were  ready  to  tackle  the  downward  trail. 

On  their  way  down  one  of  the  girls  developed  a  knee 
problem  that  prevented  her  from  completing  the  full 
descent  by  herself.  Her  companions  placed  her  on  a  poncho 
and  pulled  her  over  the  snow  to  a  point  where  their  path 
intersected  a  snowmobile  trail.  She  felt  that  the  long  hike 
ahead  was  still  too  much  for  her,  so  Dr.  Stevenson  had  the 
crew  set  up  camp  for  her.  While  the  rest  of  the  crew  went 
out  for  help,  one  of  the  other  students  stayed  with  her  to 
look  after  her  overnight  needs. 

In  the  morning  when  the  Forest  Service  snowmobiles 
became  available,  rescue  squads  worked  their  way  over  the 
shallow  snow  cover  toward  the  pair  who  had  stayed  behind 
on  the  trail.  By  the  time  both  the  snowmobiles  and  hikers 
reached  them  they  discovered  that  they  had  already  broken 
camp  and  were  all  set  to  leave  for  the  trip  back  to 
civilization. 

At  last  the  "rescue"  was  completed  and  everybody  was 
together  again.  They  loaded  their  vehicles  (including  the 
Propane  Gasser  borrowed  from  WPI)  and  headed  for 
Worcester.  The  homeward  trip  was  highlighted  by  a  dinner 
stop  at  the  home  of  Garrett  T.  Cavanaugh,  '75,  in  Littleton, 


Mass.  (The  previous  night  they  had  stayed  at  the  home  of 
Outward  Bound  instructor  David  E.  Bull,  '74,  in  Littleton, 
N.H.)  There  was  lots  of  WPI  hospitality  along  the  way. 

And  the  way  for  the  young  adventurers  had  not  always 
been  easy.  There  were  cases  of  frostbite  (minor),  sore 
muscles,  and  bone  weariness.  But  there  was  reward  in 
hardship.  In  their  most  trying  moments  they  never  failed  to 
help  one  another.  There  was  a  warmth  of  spirit  kindled  on 
those  bleak,  forbidding  mountainsides  that  no  icy  wind 
could  penetrate.  And  that  spirit  cemented  friendships  and 
made  each  one  of  the  group  do  things  he  never  would  have 
believed  possible  only  a  few  short  days  before.  Still  sore, 
still  tired,  they  even  began  to  talk  about  "next  time".  They 
had  conquered  adversity  and  were  willing  to  face  up  to  it 
again.  The  near-novices  were  now  experienced  winter 
mountaineers. 

"Difficulties  made  the  trip,"  said  Dr.  Stevenson.  He 
should  know.  He  was  there. 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


17 


Celestial  Navigation 

While  the  televising  of  a  reenactment  of  a  noon  sunsight 
determining  the  latitude  and  longitude  of  Harrington 
Auditorium  may  have  been  one  of  the  brightest  moments 
for  students  taking  "Celestial  Navigation,"  the  assistant 
professor  of  physics  who  taught  the  course  received  a  reward 
of  another  kind. 

Prof.  George  Riley,  Ph.D.  '70,  observed,  midway  through 
the  three-day  session,  "the  students  (none  of  whom  had 
ever  operated  a  sextant  at  the  beginning  of  the  course)  .  .  . 
advanced  to  a  stage  of  competence  which  amazed  me.  .  .  It 
was  a  very  gratifying  experience  to  see  them  work  as 
diligently  as  they  did." 


At  the  conclusion  of  his  first  Intersession  experience, 
Prof.  Riley  was  moved  to  write:  "I  would  like  to  convey 
the  enthusiasm  exhibited  by  the  students  taking  this  course. 
I  have  never  seen  a  group  of  students  work  as  hard  in  all  of 
the  fourteen  years  that  I  have  been  teaching.  In  the  final 
survey  the  students  were  asked  if  credit  was  a  determining 
factor  in  their  choice  of  the  course  and  with  one  exception 
all  said  that  it  was  not.  Only  half  of  the  class  took  the 
course  for  credit  and  it  was  my  observation  that  everyone 
in  the  class  worked  equally  hard." 

One  student  commented  that  he  would  need  the 
knowledge  when  he  crosses  the  Atlantic  in  1975-76! 

Crisis 

"I  would  like  to  say  now  that  I  enjoyed  this  course  better 
than  any  I  have  ever  taken  here  at  Tech  or  any  place  else.  It 
should  definitely  try  to  be  incorporated  into  any  foreign 
policy  course  that  is  taught  to  lend  a  real  insight  into 
inter-nation  actions  and  the  under-the-counter  operations 
also.  As  an  Intersession  course  I  would  like  to  see  it  offered 
all  three  weeks.  It  is  the  type  of  course  advertised  in  the 
catalog  to  all  the  unsuspecting  incoming  students  hearing 
about  the  Plan,  but  the  only  one  I've  seen  yet  that  fulfilled 
that  idea." 

This  frank  appraisal  given  by  a  thoughtful  participant 
sums  up  the  opinion  of  almost  every  student  who  played 
the  Inter-Nation  Simulation  Game  in  Dr.  John  F.  Zeugner's 
stimulating  course,  "Crisis." 

The  game  involved  the  creation  of  five  countries,  each 
with  five  student  officers  of  state.  Each  country  occupied  a 
separate  room  on  the  top  floor  of  Salisbury  where  a  series 
of  ninety-minute  simulations  were  held.  The  simulations 
corresponded  to  one  year  of  diplomatic  maneuvering  in  the 
"real"  world.  The  maneuvering  was  restricted  by  each 
nation's  Main  Decision  Form  which  served  as  a  statement  of 
its   national   posture   at   the   beginning   and   end   of  each 


Child  Development — The  Making  of  a  Scientist. 


18 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


simulation  period.  Utilizing  thirteen  equations,  student 
leaders  were  able  to  trade  and  ally  with  or  make  war  upon 
one  another. 

At  first  the  game  was  quite  complicated,  and  the  initial 
simulation,  even  though  war  for  the  time  being  had  been 
ruled  out,  was  rather  chaotic.  However,  as  the  students  and 
the  director  got  their  bearings,  the  possibilities  of  the  game 
opened  up  and  enthusiasm  ran  high. 

In  addition  to  the  five  countries  a  world  newspaper 
"The  Daily  Planet"  was  established.  The  paper  became  the 
natural  method  of  communication  conveying  both  fact  and 
fiction  among  the  nations. 

The  game  required  certain  clarifying  rules,  even  though 
the  instruction  pamphlet  ran  forty  pages  long.  Also,  a 
number  of  students  proposed  the  following  changes: 

1.  Increasing   the  cost  of  production  or  purchase  of 
nuclear  weapons. 

2.  Integrating  guerrilla  warfare  into  the  game. 

3.  Allowing    the    Domestic    Opposition    Leader    of  a 
country  the  option  of  developing  guerrilla  revolt. 

Perhaps  the  game's  most  interesting  aspect  is  that  it 
drags  to  an  uncoverable  surface  the  nature  of  much 
international  negotiation.  As  one  student  put  it:  "I  think 
that  as  a  whole  the  participants'  interest  in  foreign  policy 
was  stimulated,  but  stimulating  young  minds  by  showing 
them  a  way  to  participate  in  international  fraud,  deceit,  and 
murder  is  promoting  a  value  system  which  is  contrary  to 
the  survival  of  man  and  the  Earth." 


The  work  of  J.  R.  Ft.  Tolkien. 


Building  and  Maintaining  a  Home 
The  mysteries  of  do-it-yourself  carpentry,  plumbing,  and 
wiring  were  unveiled  in  this  immediately  oversubscribed 
course.  Under  the  capable  supervision  of  Dr.  Raymond  R. 
Hagglund,  '56,  Dr.  James  S.  Demetry,  '58,  and  Jeffrey  A. 
Petry,  '72,  students  were  allowed  to  build  wall  sections 
(including  door  frames  and  windows)  and  install  plumbing, 
wiring,  and  insulation  in  the  house  frames  they  had  built. 

Some  of  the  30  young  people  participating  learned  a 
few  lessons  from  the  school  of  hard  knocks.  Nothing 
serious.  Just  one  banged  thumb,  one  sliver,  and  one  slightly 
burned  index  finger.  Perhaps,  for  them,  experience  was  the 
best  teacher! 

Nuclear  Activation  Analysis 

By  irradiating  a  sample  in  a  nuclear  reactor  or  accelerator,  it 
is  then  possible  to  measure  the  energy  of  gamma  rays  given 
off  by  the  newly  radioactive  substance  and  identify 
constituent  chemical  elements.  Under  the  coordination  of 
Prof.  Ben  VVooten,  six  students  used  the  technique  for 
individual  projects. 

One  student,  testing  American  gold  coins,  discovered 
that  the  metallurgy  changed  at  the  U.S.  Mint  between  185  3 
and  1926.  Another,  testing  the  Worcester  tap  water, 
reduced  four  gallons  down  to  50  cc  and  irradiated  the 
sample  for  an  hour.  It  became  radioactive  enough  to  send 
the  survey  meter  off-scale,  indicating  the  presence  of 
significant  amounts  of  material  that  wasn't  hydrogen, 
carbon,  or  oxygen.  So  far  the  student  has  identified  sodium 
and  chlorine  (surprise!),  and  tentatively  also  bromine, 
manganese,  and  zinc.  Because  of  the  progress  he  made 
during  the  three  day  period,  he  is  continuing  with  the 
project. 

Biomedical  Instrumentation  with 

Computer  Applications 

Prof.  Robert  Peura,  '64,  had  ten  of  twenty-seven  students 

signed  up  for  credit  for  his  course  which  would  illustrate  basic 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


19 


instrumentation  techniques  and  principles  and  demonstrate 
their  application  to  practical  problems  in  biology  and 
medicine.  However,  when  Prof.  Peura  explained  what 
would  be  necessary  for  credit  (an  instrumentation  project, 
or  a  review  of  five  papers  dealing  with  the  subject),  all  ten 
students  promptly  changed  their  minds  and  dropped  the 
credit  option! 

WPI  Archives  and  Historical  Equipment 

One  of  the  most  notable  things  to  emerge  from  History 
Prof.  Michael  Sokal's  group  were  the  freshman,  sophomore, 
and  junior  laboratory  reports  of  Robert  H.  Goddard. 
Although  these  do  not  represent  original  research,  these 
manuscripts  do  have  significant  antiquarian  value,  having 
been  written  in  Goddard's  hand.  They  were  given  to  WPI 
some  time  ago  by  Mrs.  Goddard,  but  in  the  process  of 
moving  the  library  from  Alden  Memorial  Hall  to  the  George 
C.  Gordon  Library  the  reports  disappeared  from  view. 

Much  of  the  course's  effort  was  devoted  to  examining 
some  of  the  older  equipment  and  instruments  of  the 
physics  department.  Prof.  Sokal  commented  that  "the 
students  found  the  course  very  interesting.  I  had  originally 
planned  to  concentrate  on  the  Archives,  but  the  students 
were  more  interested  in  the  instruments  than  in  documenta- 
tion. All  in  all,  I  think  that  they  were  given  a  pretty  good 
feel  for  historical  and  archival  work." 

Skiing  for  Beginners 

Fearless  publications  editor  Russell  Kay  didn't  have  a  thing 
to  worry  about  his  premiere  day  on  the  slopes.  At  10  a.m. 
he  buckled  on  the  three-foot  training  skis  (you  know,  the 
kind  that  are  safe  enough  for  kids)  and  prepared  to  attack 
Mt.  Wachusett.  But  Alt.  Wachusett  fought  back. 

At  1 1  a.m.  Russ's  feet  kept  going  while  the  rest  of  him 
didn't.  Result?  Tendonitis  and  a  shoulder  that  didn't  want 
to  move. 


"You're  a  first,"  the  instructor  informed  him.  "Nobody 
has  ever  been  injured  up  here  on  three-foot  skis  before." 

Wounded,  Russ  removed  his  "kid-safe"  skis,  shrugged 
his  shoulder  (the  unstrained  one)  and  walked  away.  Mt. 
Wachusett  had  been  victorious  this  day.  "But  I'll  get  back 
at  you,"  he  glowered  at  the  hulking  mass. 

Mother  Nature,  however,  stepped  in  to  prevent  such  a 
reencounter.  There  has  only  been  one  serious  snowstorm 
since  the  fearless  editor's  downfall  and  at  that  time  he  was 
too  busy  editing  this  issue  to  ski.  Some  people  have  all  the 
luck.  .  . 


*"  r  - 

Oceanographic  Research  Cruise,  aboard  the  R.  V.  Knorr  in 
Caribbean  waters. 


Something  Ventured 

Gratifying  experiences  with  Intersession  were  echoed  again 
and  again  among  professors  who  taught  other  courses,  and 
especially  among  the  students,  many  of  whom  remarked,  "I 
never  got  so  much  out  of  a  course  in  my  life",  or  "For  the  first 
time  I  felt  I  really  knew  my  professor." 

The  seers  who  designed  Intersession  to  be  an  integral 
part  of  the  WPI  Plan  and  the  Intersession  Committee  itself 
have  seen  the  first  test  of  their  "gamble"  pay  off 
handsomely.  They  worked  long  and  hard  for  its  success. 

Courses  offered  at  Intersession  were  culled  by  the 
Committee  from  some  600  ideas  suggested  by  students, 
faculty,  and  alumni.  A  number  of  courses  were  consoli- 
dated into  one  from  two,  three,  four  or  more  suggestions. 
Some  courses  were  seen  as  nonviable  or  too  expensive  by 
the  Committee.  The  culling  continued  until  the  goal  of  150 
courses  was  reached.  Every  course  was  given  by  a  faculty 
member  who  suggested  participation  in  the  course  himself. 


20 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL  i|. 


Eliminating  and  consolidating  suggested  courses  took  all 
last  year.  The  actual  scheduling  was  done  over  the  summer 
with  the  usual  last-minute  rush  ensuing. 

The  final  list  of  courses  offered  was  wide  and  varied. 
Students  with  musical  interests  could  enjoy  everything 
from  the  fabricated  strains  of  electronic  music  to  the 
stirring  renditions  of  the  prestigious  St.  Louis  Quartet. 
Geology  enthusiasts  with  a  yen  for  travel  had  it  made.  They 
were  offered  a  geology  field  trip  to  Puerto  Rico.  An 
impressive  battery  of  engineering  and  scientific  courses  was 
available,  i.e.,  "Minicomputers,"  "Photoelasticity,"  "Cam 
Design,"  and  dozens  more. 

Students  had  the  option  to  take  courses  for  credit  or 
not.  Although  quite  a  few  did  take  the  credit  option,  a 
good  many  didn't.  Some  said  that  they  enjoyed  learning  so 
much  without  pressure  that  they  decided  to  opt  for 
non-credit. 

Some  courses  were  so  popular  that  a  lottery  system  had 
to  be  devised  to  determine  who  was  enrolled.  "Building  and 
Maintaining  a  Home,"  "BASIC  Programming,"  "Drawing 
from  the  Nude,"  and  "Child  Development"  were  sell-outs 
immediately.  Others  with  open  enrollment  attracted  very 
large  numbers.  "Financing  and  Managing  a  Small  Business" 
led  the  list  with  193  enrolled,  while  "You  and  Your 
Money"  drew  110  and  "Observational  Astronomy" 
followed  closely  with  106  in  attendance. 

All  in  all,  1400  undergraduates,  75  graduate  students 


and  172  non-WPI  students  took  Intersession  courses.  This 
latter  number  included  about  60  Alumni  and  20  Con- 
sortium students. 

Something  Gained 

Dean  William  Grogan  had  this  to  say  about  Intersession: 
"Intersession  '72  demonstrated  beyond  anything  that  has 
ever  preceded  it  that  WPI  is  a  college  with  untapped 
potential  and  interests.  Out  of  Intersession  came  new 
intellectual  associations  between  faculty  and  students, 
faculty  and  other  faculty,  and  within  the  student  body.  The 
fact  was  established  that  when  properly  challenged  and 
motivated  the  WPI  student  will  eagerly  respond  without 
compulsion. 

"Our  faculty,  with  over  95  percent  participation,  came 
through  with  imagination  and  professional  zeal  to  establish 
the  most  exciting  learning  atmosphere  I  have  ever  seen  at 
WPI. 

"I  only  wish  more  alumni  had  been  able  to  join  us 
during  this  period.  We  shall  work  harder  next  year  to  make 
more  widely  known  the  opportunities  for  alumni  during 
Intersession." 

The  course  books  are  closed.  The  field  trips  have 
stopped.  The  speakers  have  left.  Intersession  1972  has  come 
and  gone.  But  the  enthusiasm  and  intellectual  excitement 
that  it  engendered  still  remain.  Neither  January  nor  any 
other  month  at  WPI  will  ever  be  the  same  again. 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


21 


After  the  Fact 

an  evaluation  by 

Dean  of  Undergraduate  Prograi 

William  R.  Grogan 


IT'S  VERY  HARD  to  compare  Intersession  with  past 
programs  and  experiences,  because  there's  never  been 
anything  at  all  like  it  here.  Two  major  things  emerged.  One 
was  the  feeling  of  accomplishment  by  many  of  the  faculty 
and  students  in  a  new  program  and  the  excitement  of 
participating  in  a  totally  different  educational  environment. 
The  other  was  the  relationship  between  faculty  and 
students. 

I  have  been  on  the  faculty  almost  twenty-five  years,  and 
1  have  never  seen  such  real  communication,  such  cordiality 
between  students  and  faculty.  I  think  the  faculty  during 
these  Intersession  weeks  tended  to  look  on  the  students 
very  much  as  individuals.  And  the  students  got  to  know 
faculty  members  as  people  with  real  and  exciting  interests, 
not  just  as  teaching  machines  that  lecture  at  them.  We  also 
had  combinations  of  faculty  working  together,  getting  to 
know  each  other  on  a  daily  basis,  which  just  doesn't  happen 
otherwise. 

I  think  that  Intersession  established  in  the  minds  of  our 
students  —  better  than  any  lecture,  any  paper,  any  formal 
presentation  could  have  done  —  that  one  of  our  educational 
objectives  is  to  help  develop  in  our  students  a  breadth  of 
personality  and  life  interests.  This  isn't  normally  possible; 
we  tend  to  cast  the  faculty  member  in  the  role  of 
professional  specialist,  and  I  think  we  sometimes  leave 
students  with  the  impression  that  that's  all  that  the  faculty 
do.  Students  naturally  build  models  for  themselves  and 
their  behavior  and  expectations  from  individual  faculty 
members,  more  or  less  subconsciously,  and  I  think  that 
sometimes  they  tend  to  limit  their  horizons  unnecessarily. 
What  Intersession  did  better  than  anything  we've  ever  done 
before  is  to  show  the  extremely  wide  range  of  interests  that 
the  faculty  possess.  We  had  electrical  engineering  professor 
Harit  Majmudar  teaching  Indian  music;  physics  professor 
Thomas  Keil  showing  how  to  build  a  harpsichord  from  a 
kit;  and  chemistry  professor  Herbert  Beall  introducing  a 
group  of  students  to  the  art  of  playing  the  recorder  (the 
flute,  not  the  tape  machine!).  In  the  long  run,  this  will  have 
a  profound  effect  on  many  students. 

(One  of  the  very  fine  things  we  found  was  that  merely  by 
offering  a  particular  Intersession  course  we  created  a  new 
social  or  interest  group.  For  example,  we  now  have  a 
full-fledged  outing  club  at  WPI,  and  this  happened  just 
because  Profs.  Philip  Stevenson  and  Bob  Wagner  are 
interested  in  hiking  and  climbing  and  offered  to  share  that 
interest  by  means  of  the  Winter  Mountaineering  course. 
Similarly,  the  recorder  group  that  met  for  Intersession  has 
decided  to  continue  as  an  organized  activity.) 


Many  faculty  members  became  involved  in  Intersession 
because  it  gave  them  the  chance  to  do  something  they 
wanted  to  do,  in  many  cases  something  they  had  wanted  to 
do  for  a  long  time.  We  had  more  than  300  people  from 
off-campus  participating  in  Intersession,  as  students  and 
guest  faculty,  and  the  infusion  of  new  ideas  and  thinking 
had  a  very  stimulating  effect  on  everyone.  Intersession  was, 
I  think,  one  of  the  best  things  we  have  ever  done  in  terms 
of  really  bringing  together  community  members  and  out- 
siders in  an  interesting,  educational  and  social  atmosphere. 
The  results  are  quite  intangible  and  difficult  to  measure. 
The  learning  that  took  place  was  very  concrete  in  many 
instances,  but  in  others  it  was  quite  different.  Only  time 
will  tell  the  long-term  benefits  of  this  period. 

Reaction  to  Intersession  has  been  incredibly  enthusi- 
astic. The  only  really  negative  comments  I've  heard  are 
from  faculty  and  students  who  didn't  much  participate  in 
the  program.  In  answer  to  a  general  questionnaire,  over  97 
percent  of  students  want  Intersession  repeated;  and  some 
98  percent  recommended  that  the  particular  course  they 
took  be  rerun.  Ninety-two  percent  felt  that  their  time  was 
well-spent.  The  breakdown  of  courses  was  rather  inter- 
esting; only  one-third  took  courses  related  to  their  major, 
and  another  one-eighth  related  to  their  minor.  The  great 
bulk  of  students  —  54  percent  —  took  courses  merely 
because  they  were  interested  in  the  subject.  Surprisingly, 
the  availability  of  credit  was  a  factor  in  the  choice  of 
courses  for  only  one  out  of  four  students. 

We  have  learned  a  lot  from  Intersession  this  year.  We 
have  learned  that  it  should  be  done  with  a  team-teaching 
approach.  If  only  one  or  two  people  taught  an  Intersession 
course,  they  found  it  an  extremely  exhausting  experience. 
For  many  students  and  faculty  the  evening  sessions  were 
too  much.  If  the  afternoon  was  used  for  field  trips  or  study 
or  some  form  of  hands-on  experience,  then  the  evening 
sessions  worked  well.  If  there  were  all-day-long  lectures, 
though,  evenings  were  quite  difficult.  We  learned  a  lot  about 
how  to  handle  an  all-day  program. 

I  think,  too,  that  we  should  involve  more  students, 
particularly  upperclassmen,  as  instructors. 

All  in  all,  though,  Intersession  was  a  great  success  I 
think  that  it  has  demonstrated  quite  significantly  that  at 
WPI  we  can  really  communicate  and  live  the  excitement  of 
learning.  That's  a  lot  of  what  the  WPI  Plan  is  all  about. 
And,  when  you  come  down  to  the  very  basics,  that's  what 
education  is.  It's  not  learning  facts  or  procedures.  It's  I 
learning  how  to  learn  -  and  enjoy  it. 


22 


THE  WPI  JOURNAl!]' 


INTERSESSION 

AN  ALUMNUS'  VIEW 


WPI's  first  Intersession  certainly  was  tremendously  success- 
ful, a  fine  testament  to  careful  and  thorough  planning  and 
execution.  But  from  an  alumnus'  viewpoint,  we  can  infer  a 
great  deal  more. 

We  hear  much  of  the  need  for  innovative  challenges  for 
youthful  minds,  for  evolutionary  educational  techniques 
geared  to  evolutionary  technology.  But  some  of  us  may 
sometimes  harbor  doubts.  We  may  speculate  that  perhaps 
we  encourage  too  much  challenge,  too  much  evolution. 
Intersession,  therefore,  may  have  provided  us  with  another 
measure  of  educational  change. 

Three  out  of  every  four  students  enrolled  at  WPI  signed 
up  for  one  or  more  Intersession  courses.  Students  thereby 
committed  themselves  to  spending  one,  two,  or  three  weeks 
voluntarily  attending  classes  —  generally  not  for  credit.  And 
in  so  doing  they  sacrificed  part  of  their  between-semesters 
vacation.  The  personal  commitments  by  some  1500  stu- 
dents clearly  attest  to  their  enthusiasm  for  the  program. 

Some  of  us  may  have  questioned  the  need  for  so  many 
courses  to  be  offered.  Yet  enrollment  was  so  high  that  one 
hundred  forty-six  courses  were  presented.  And  many 
students  were  frustrated  when  course  after  course  was 
booked  to  capacity.  The  course  on  building  and  repairing 
the  home,  for  example,  with  an  enrollment  limit  of  30 


students,     had     300    applicants.     Student    response    again 
provides  strong  testimony  to  Intersession's  value. 

From  the  vantage  of  a  month's  meditation  on  Inter- 
session's success,  it  is  easy  for  us  to  applaud  our  college's 
faculty  and  administration  for  their  perception  and  under- 
standing. It  may  have  been  more  difficult  for  us  to  have 
done  so  a  month  before  Intersession. 

What  then  can  we,  as  concerned  alumni,  conclude  from 
Intersession?  First,  we  can  recognize  the  excellence  of  our 
college's  educational  programs.  Second,  we  can  be  thankful 
that  those  who  guide  the  Institute's  future  are  developing 
innovative  changes  and  evolutionary  educational  techniques 
that  evoke  such  dramatic  response  from  the  student  body. 
And  finally,  we  look  to  the  future. 

A  college  that  evolved  the  WPI  Plan,  a  college  that 
developed  Intersession,  a  college  that  in  May  will  inaugurate 
an  annual  seminar  program  for  in-depth  analysis  of  contem- 
porary issues  is  a  college  with  firm  prospects  for  continuing 
educational  excellence. 

We  can  all  take  pleasure  in  being  a  part  of  the  heritage 
of  such  a  college  and,  through  our  Alumni  Association,  in 
being  contributors  as  well  as  beneficiaries  of  the  future. 

I.  J.  Donahue,  Jr.,  President 
WPI  Alumni  Association 


fry} 


Z*T&jX-iJ£cts 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


"It's  inspiring.  He  came  back  for  his  fiftieth  reunion 
and  simply  decided  to  stay.  " 

Drawing  by  Stevenson;  ©  1971  The  New  Yorker  Magazine,  Inc. 


23 


BASKETBALL 

Coach  Herrion's  hoopsters  experienced 
a  hard  time  the  first  half  of  this  year's 
season.  The  WPI  basketball  team 
found  the  early  going  plagued  by  the 
lack  of  team  cohesiveness  and  pa- 
tience, a  trait  lost  through  graduation 
of  last  year's  seniors.  The  Engineers 
managed  to  come  through  the  season 
in  fair  shape,  however,  finishing  with  8 
wins  and  10  losses. 

Leading  scorer  was  6  3  captain 
John  O'Brien,  with  an  average,  of  22 
points  per  game.  He  scored  30  points 
against  Tufts  on  January  17,  but  the 
team  could  not  pull  out  a  victory,  the 
final  being  95-8  3.  A  week  later,  John 
scored  34  points  against  Amherst, 
which  was  decisive  in  the  79-7  3  WPI 
victory.  For  that  performance,  O'Brien 
earned  a  spot  on  the  ECAC  All-Star 
Squad  of  the  week. 

Another  important  player  was  cen- 
ter Jim  Henderson,  leading  the  team 
with  an  average  of  14  rebounds  a 
game.  He  sprained  his  ankle  early  in 
the  season,  against  Wesleyan,  but  re- 
turned to  peak  performance  to  spark 
the  Engineers. 

The  worst  game  of  the  season  was 
against  Assumption.  A  rout  was  ex- 
pected, although  by  halftime  WPI  was 
only  9  points  behind,  thanks  to  poor 
shooting  by  the  opposition.  The  smell 
of  possible  victory  didn't  last  long, 
however,  for  Assumption  rallied  and 
finished  with  a  50  —  count  'em  —  50 
point  lead  over  the  hapless  Engineers, 
122-72. 

Down  but  not  out,  the  WPI  hoop- 
men  came  back  to  finish  the  season 
with  a  pair  of  wins  against  Clark  and 
Brandeis. 

WRESTLING 

The  WPI  wrestling  team  is  not  ex- 
periencing one  of  its  better  years.  So 
far,  the  grapplers  have  a  2-5  record 
with  wins  over  Hartford  and  Tufts. 
First    vear   coach    Dick   Heikkincn  has 


had  to  work  with  a  young  and  inex- 
perienced squad  who  have  come  up 
with  some  fine  individual  perform- 
ances. Vin  Colonero  and  John  Wyman 
have  to  be  given  a  lot  of  credit  for 
their  efforts  this  year.  Vin  has  been 
wrestling  heavyweight  and  John  118 
for  Tech  this  year  without  any  pre- 
vious varsity  experience  and  giving  a 
fine  account  for  themselves.  Along 
with  Vin  and  John,  Larry  Martiniano 
has  been  the  individual  leader  of  the 
matmen  with  5  pins  and  5  victories  in 
7  decisions. 


SWIMMING 

Tech's  swimmers  have  still  not 
launched  themselves  into  the  heart  of 
their  season.  Having  competed  in  only 
four  meets,  they  possess  a  .500  mark 
at  the  present.  The  team  was  surprised 
by  Babson  after  defeating  Holy  Cross 
in  its  first  encounter.  After  losing  to 
perennially  strong  Coast  Guard,  the 
mermen  beat  Keene  State. 

The  team,  as  a  whole,  is  proving  to 
be  a  potentially  fine  unit  as  proved  by 
its  recent  first  place  in  the  800-yard 
Breast  Stroke  Relay  at  the  Coast 
Guard  Relays.  Coach  Peterson  looks  to 
the  rest  of  the  season  with  guarded 
optimism  in  hopes  of  producing  a 
winning  slate. 


BASEBALL 

It  appears  that  Coach  Charlie  McNulty 
and  his  1972  edition  of  WPI's  baseball 
team  will  have  a  difficult  time  equaling 
last  season's  1 1-win  3-loss  record. 

One  of  the  most  important  reasons 
for  this  pessimistic  attitude  is  the  loss 
of  hurler  Bill  Bcloff  (7-0)  through 
graduation.  Returning  moundsmen  are 
co-captain  James  Kcefe,  Daniel  Eide 
and  newcomer  from  the  frosh  nine, 
James  Fountain.  These  three  men  will 
form  the  nucleus  of  the  pitching  corps. 


With  the  return  of  co-captain  Steve 
Buba  at  first  base  and  catcher  William 
Cormier  along  with  dependable  short- 
stop James  Buell,  the  infield  is  ex- 
pected to  equal  or  surpass  last  year's 
inner  defense. 

There  are  two  big  holes  in  the 
outfield  due  to  the  departure  of 
Robert  Johnson  (co-captain)  and 
College  Division  All  Star  centerfielder 
Dave  Sund.  Wayne  Pitts,  who  took 
over  the  rightfield  job  during  the 
season,  is  the  only  seasoned  outfielder 
returning. 

The  schedule  remains  about  the 
same.  The  only  thing  left  is  coopera- 
tion from  the  weather  man. 


TRACK  AND  FIELD 

Starting  his  18th  year  as  track  coach, 
Merl  Norcross  believes  his  1972  edi- 
tion will  be  relatively  strong  and  com- 
petitive. 

Balance,  lacking  in  1971,  will  be  a 
key  to  the  track  team's  success.  Depth 
will  improve  in  every  event  especially 
the  jumps  which  were  weak  last  year. 

A  number  of  top-notch  performers 
will  return,  including  Mark  Dupius, 
school  record  holder  in  the  shot  and 
discus,  and  James  Weber,  record 
holder  in  the  intermediates.  The  440 
yd.  relay  team  is  still  intact  with  Tom 
Fieldsend,  James  Weber,  Richard  Zepp 
and  Tom  Beckman. 

Upperclassmen  being  counted  on 
in  their  specific  events  are  Andy 
Murch  (mile),  Tom  Beckman 
(100-220),  Greg  Dunn  (high  jump)  and 
Robert  Urban  (pole  vault). 

Freshmen  will  be  counted  on 
heavily  in  many  events  especially  the 
jumps  and  hurdles.  Some  frosh  who 
show  promise  are:  Dave  Fowler 
(T.M.),  Jeff  Wnek  (mile),  Chris  Keenan 
(880),  Kurt  Lutgens  (440),  Dan 
Grover  (high  hurdles  and  long  jump). 

Some  opponents  seem  unbeatable, 
but  the  team  should  be  tough  to  beat. 


TENNIS 

Captain  elect  Andy  White,  '73,  is  the 
only  returnee  from  last  year's  squad. 
From  last  year's  JV  team,  Gene 
li.inkc  and  Tom  Burns  should  be 
leading  candidates  for  a  place  on  the 
team,  Inn  the  freshman  class  will  have- 
to  produce  some  "hidden  talent"  if 
the  team   is  to  lie  successful  this  vear. 


24 


THE  WPI  JOURNA 


COMPLETED  CAREERS 


NORRIS    D.    PEASE,   '13 

Norris  D.  Pease  passed  away  on  De- 
cember 22,  1971,  at  the  Nyack  (New 
York)  Hospital. 

Mr.  Pease  was  born  in  Plainville,  Conn., 

Ion     August     10,     1890.       He     attended 
Southington    High    School    and    entered 

I  WPI  in  1909.     In   1913  he  received  his 

i   degree  in  civil  engineering. 

After  working  briefly  for  the  Connect- 

,j  icut  Highway  Department  and  on  the  first 
subway  tunnel  under  the  East  River  in  New 
York  City,  he  joined  the  Long  Lines  De- 
partment of  the  American  Telephone  & 
Telegraph  Company,  serving  the  company 
for  forty  years  in  Philadelphia,  Cleveland, 
Columbus  and  New  York.  At  retirement 
in  1 955  he  held  the  post  of  Division  Traffic 
Engineer  in  New  York. 

Shortly  after  retirement,  Mr.  Pease 
participated  in  the  International  Geo- 
physical Year  as  communications  con- 
sultant with  the  Astrophysical  Laboratory 
of  the  Smithsonian  Institution  in  Cam- 
bridge, Mass.  He  then  spent  over  five 
years  with  the  Traffic  Department  of  the 
Alaska  Communications  System  in  Seattle 
and  traveled  extensively  in  Alaska.  Later 
he  did  consulting  work  with  I.T.&T.,  Com- 
munications Services,  Inc.  and  Universal 
Telephone,  Inc.  in  New  Jersey,  Virginia, 
and  Seattle. 

Always  a  strong  supporter  of  WPI,  Mr. 
Pease  was  also  active  in  the  Alumni  Asso- 
ciation and  was  president  of  the  Philadel- 
phia Chapter  and  a  Council  representative 
in  1926-27.  While  in  college  he  was  a 
member  of  Alpha  Tau  Omega  and  Skull. 

He  was  a  senior  member  of  the  Institute 
of  Electrical  and  Electronics  Engineers  and 
belonged  to  the  Armed  Forces  Communica- 
tions Association.  He  was  a  senior  master 
in  the  American  Contract  Bridge  League. 
During  World  War  I  he  served  as  a  Sergeant 
with  the  Corps  of  Engineers  with  the  A.  E.  F. 
in  France. 

He  is  survived  by  a  son,  FRANK  W. 
PEASE,  '50,  of  Woodcliff  Lake,  New 
Jersey. 


RODERICK   C.    HALL,   '14 

Roderick  C.  Hall,  78,  an  industrial 
chemical  salesman  for  the  former  Brewer 
Chemical  Co.  for  25  years,  died  January  4, 
1972  in  Holden,  Massachusetts. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester,  graduated 
from  South  High  School  and  attended 
WPI.  An  army  veteran  of  World  War  I,  he 
was  later  with  the  Standard  Oil  Co.  in 
China.  At  one  time  he  was  associated 
with  Chemical  Sales  and  Service  Co.,  Inc. 
A  resident  of  West  Boylston,  Mass.,  he 
was  a  member  of  the  American  Legion, 
Greendale  Retired  Men's  Club,  treasurer  of 
the  National  Gardening  Club  and  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Worcester  County  Bee  Associa- 
tion. He  also  belonged  to  Hope  Congre- 
gational Church. 

Among  his  survivors  are  his  widow: 
Mrs.  Marion  Jensen  Hall;  two  sons,  Rod- 
erick C.  Hall,  Jr.  of  Mansfield  Center, 
Conn.,  and  Richard  J.Hall  of  Grosse  Pointe, 
Mich.;  a  daughter,  Anne,  widow  of  Dr. 
Wilson  F.  Powell  of  Guilford,  Conn.;  a 
brother,  the  Rev.  Winthrop  G.  Hall  of 
Worcester;  two  sisters,  Mrs.  Marjorie 
Stauffer  of  Hightstown,  N.J.;  and  Mrs. 
Elizabeth  Heinsohn  of  Wichita,  Kan.;  nine 
grandchildren  and  one  great-grandson. 

LESTER    H.   ELKINS,  '16 

Lester  H.  Elkins  died  on  September  19, 
1971  inTakomaPark,  Md. 

Born  December  5,  1894  in  Westbrook, 
Maine,  he  was  educated  in  Westbrook 
schools.  He  graduated  from  WPI  in  1916 
with  a  degree  in  electrical  engineering. 

Before  retiring  in  1965  he  was  an  en- 
gineer in  electrical  design  at  the  Ports- 
mouth (N.H.)  Naval  Shipyard  where  he 
was  employed  for  fifteen  years. 

Among  his  survivors  are  his  widow, 
Mrs.  Lester  H.  Elkins. 

RAYMOND    M.    HICKS,   '17 

A  retired  patent  counsel  for  the  Naval 
Ordnance  Laboratory  in  White  Oak,  Md., 
Raymond  M.  Hicksdied  November  17,1971 
in  Silver  Spring,  Md.,  at  the  age  of  78. 


Born  in  East  Haddam,  Connecticut  on 
June  10,  1893,  he  studied  at  Suffield 
(Conn.)  Academy,  WPI  and  later  earned  a 
degree  in  Patent  Law  from  New  York 
University. 

Mr.  Hicks,  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma 
Kappa,  was  president  of  the  D.C.  Chapter 
of  the  Society  of  American  Magicians, 
International  Brotherhood  of  Magicians. 

He  is  survived  by  his  wife,  the  former 
Catherine  Bailey;  a  son,  David,  of  Cranford, 
N.J.;  and  two  grandchildren. 

LEVI   E.   WHEELER,   '17 

Levi  E.  Wheeler  of  Shrewsbury,  Mas- 
sachusetts, passed  away  in  December  of 
1971.     He  was  77  years  old. 

He  was  born  in  Bolton,  Mass.,  on 
January  28,  1894,  attended  Clinton 
(Mass.)  High  School,  and  graduated  from 
WPI  in  1917  as  a  mechanical  engineer. 
For  a  number  of  years  he  was  with  The 
Heald  Machine  Co.,  Worcester,  Mass.  He 
retired  in  1961. 

A  member  of  Tau  Beta  Pi,  he  also  was  a 
Mason,  belonging  to  the  Blue  Lodge 
Chapter,  Council  and  Commandery. 

RICHARD    M.   SEAGRAVE,   '21 

Richard  M.  Seagrave  died  of  a  heart 
attack  on  January  11,  1970  in  Mesa, 
Arizona.     He  was  71. 

Born  in  Pittsfield,  Mass.,  on  April  21, 
1898  he  attended  high  school  in  Dalton, 
Mass.,  and  later  studied  at  WPI. 

Retiring  in  1961,  he  was  with  the 
Pittsfield  branch  of  the  General  Electric 
Company  for  nearly  40  years.  He  was  a 
member  of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa. 

CARL  R.   CRON,  '23 

Carl  R.  Cron,  who  was  with  the  Morgan 
Construction  Co.,  Worcester,  Mass.,  for 
over  45  years,  died  on  January  10,  1972 
at  the  age  of  70  years. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  attended 
Classical  High  School  and  WPI.  During 
his  long  service  with  the  Morgan  Company 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


25 


he  worked  as  an  electrician  and  mainte- 
nance superintendent. 

He  was  a  member  of  Morning  Star 
A.F.M.  Lodge  in  Worcester. 

LLOYD   E.   MAGOON.  '28 

Lloyd  E.  Magoon,  66,  passed  away 
December  12,  1971,  in  Manchester,  Con- 
necticut. 

A  native  of  Worcester,  Mass.,  he  was 
educated  at  South  High  School  and 
graduated  with  a  degree  in  electrical  en- 
gineering from  WPI  in  1928.  Before  he 
retired  two  years  ago,  he  had  been  em- 
ployed for  twenty  years  as  a  supervisor  in 
the  assembly  division  of  Pratt  and  Whitney, 
Division  of  United  Aircraft  Corp.,  East 
Hartford,  Conn. 

His  survivors  include  his  widow,  Mrs. 
Eva  Bean  Magoon  and  a  daughter,  Miss 
Helen  Magoon,  both  of  Manchester,  Conn. 

FRANK  W.    LEE,  '39 

Frank  W.  Lee  of  North  Andover,  Mass., 
passed  away  in  May  of  1 971 . 

He  was  born  on  April  30,  1916  in 
Lawrence,  Mass.,  where  he  attended  high 
school.     Later  he  enrolled  at  WPI. 

During  his  lifetime  he  was  a  control 
engineer  for  Station  WLAW,  Lawrence; 
manager  of  the  Lawrence  Plate  Glass  Co.; 
and  was  associated  with  the  Eastern  Garage 
Door,  also  a  Lawrence  firm. 

He  is  survived  by  his  widow,  Mrs. 
Pauline  Howe  Lee,  and  two  children. 


FRANK  A.   CROSBY,   JR.,   '40 

Frank  A.  Crosby,  Jr.,  who  was  closely 
associated  with  the  introduction  and  pro- 
duction of  the  jet  engine,  died  December 
17,  1971  in  Hartford,  Connecticut.  He 
was  52  years  old. 

He  was  born  in  Springfield,  Massa- 
chusetts, on  October  12,  1918  and  gradu- 
ated from  WPI  with  a  degree  in  mechanical 
engineering  in  1940.  After  graduation 
he  taught  mechanical  engineering  at  WPI 
for  a  year  and  then  began  his  lifetime 
career  as  a  project  engineer  for  Pratt  and 
Whitney  Aircraft,  Division  of  the  United 
Aircraft  Corp.,  East  Hartford,  Conn. 

Mr.  Crosby,  who  lived  in  South  Glas- 
tonbury, Conn.,  was  a  member  of  Tau  Beta 
Phi  and  Alpha  Tau  Omega. 

Among  his  survivors  are  his  widow, 
Mrs.  Constance  McKerrow  Crosby;  his 
mother,  Mrs.  Marion  L.  Crosby  of  Spring- 
field, Mass.;  two  daughters,  Miss  Carolyn 
M.  Crosby  and  Miss  Pamela  E.  Crosby, 
South  Glastonbury,  Conn.;  a  brother, 
Robert,  of  Stamford,  Conn.;  and  a  sister, 
Mrs.  Ernest  A.  Phillips,  Jr.,  of  Winchester, 
Mass. 

LEONARD  T.  JANOWSKI,   '52 

Leonard  T.  Janowski  died  on  August 
23,  1971  in  Clinton,  Massachusetts. 

Mr.  Janowski  was  born  February  29, 
1924  at  Shrewsbury,  Mass.  and  attended 
Auburn  High  School.  In  1 952  he  received 
a  degree  in  electrical  engineering  from 
WPI. 

Following  graduation  he  accepted  an 
engineering  position  with  The  Heald  Ma- 
chine Co.  in  Worcester.  Later  he  joined 
the  General  Electric  Company  (Small 
Steam  Turbine  Department)  in  Fitchburg, 
Mass.,  where  in  1967  he  was  appointed 
manager  of  quality  control  of  the  Mechan- 
ical Drive  Department. 

Mr.  Janowski  was  a  registered  pro- 
fessional engineer  and  a  member  of  Sigma 
Alpha  Epsilon  and  Eta  Kappa  Nu.  He  was 
also  on  the  Town  of  Lancaster  (Mass.) 
Industrial  Development  Commission. 


J.    PARK   GILBERT,  '55 

J.  Park  Gilbert,  38,  general  insurance 
agent  with  Gilbert  and  Weston  Inc.,  Clare- 
mont,  N.H.,  died  January  15,  1972  in 
Hanover,  N.H.,  after  a  brief  illness. 

He  was  vice  president  of  Gilbert  Realty 
Co.  and  corporation  secretary  of  Gilbert 
and  Weston,  Inc.  He  was  also  a  member 
of  the  N.H.  Association  of  Independent 
Insurance  Agents  and  of  the  National 
Association.  A  Claremont  native  (born 
December  22, 1 933),  he  was  a  past  trustee 
of  the  First  Congregational  Church  of 
Claremont,  and  the  director  of  the  Clare- 
mont Chamber  of  Commerce. 

Following  graduation  from  Stevens 
High  School,  Mr.  Gilbert  enrolled  at  WPI 
and  graduated  in  1955  as  an  electrical  en- 
gineer. For  a  time  he  was  associated  with 
the  Factory  Insurance  Association  and 
Creth  &  Sullivan  Inc.  of  Philadelphia. 
Later  he  worked  for  Mackintosh  Inc., 
Claremont. 

He  was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa, 
the  Masons,  and  BPOE.  As  a  graduate  of 
the  American  Institute  for  Property  and 
Liability  Underwriters,  Inc.,  he  received 
the  designation  of  charter  property  casualty 
underwriter.  He  served  with  the  U.S. 
Army  from  1956  to  1958. 

Among  his  survivors  are  his  wife,  Mrs. 
Frances  H.  Gilbert  of  Claremont;  a  son, 
Jeffrey  K.  and  daughter  Sandi  L,  both  of 
Claremont;  his  parents,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  D. 
Kearns  Gilbert;  and  a  sister,  Mrs.  Leonard 
Rivenbury  of  Powell,  Ohio. 


26 


YOUR  CLASS  AND  OTHERS 


1906 

L.  NORMAN  REEVE  will  be  spending 
the  summer  months  in  Falmouth,  Mass. 

1907 

JAM  ES  B.  LOWELL,  now  retired  as  the 
owner  of  J.  B.  Lowell,  Co.,  Builders,  is 
living  in  Worcester,  Mass.  He  is  a  member 
of  the  American  Society  of  Civil  Engineers 
and  the  Boston  Society  of  Civil  Engineers. 

1909 

ROGER  B.  HUBBELL  currently  resides 
in  Rockville,  Md.  He  is  a  former  resident 
of  Medway,  Mass. 

1915 

Now  retired  as  a  self-employed  con- 
sultant, JOHN  W.  GLEASON  makes  his 
home  in  Leesburg,  Florida. 

1916 

Clearwater,  Fla.,  is  the  current  address 
of  HUBERT  H.  FRARY  .  .  .  JOSEPH  E. 
MURPHY  calls  Warwick,  R.I. , home. 

1918 

Married:  BENJAMIN  LUTHER  to 
Cressie  R.  Merriam  on  June  24,  1971. 

Formerly  with  the  Worthington  Corp. 
of  Harrison,  N.J.,  CHARLES  L.  WADDELL, 
now  retired,  lives  in  Fort  Lauderdale, 
Florida. 

1920 

Also  retired  and  living  in  Florida  is 
HERBERT  H.UPTON  of  Lake  Wales. 


1921 

EARL  B.  PICKERING  has  moved  from 
New  Ipswich,  N.H.,to  Palm  Beach,  Fla. 

1925 

DANIEL  L.  HUSSEY  was  recently  in- 
stalled as  president  of  the  Old  Guard  in 
Short  Hills,  N.J.  Mr.  Hussey,  whose  busi- 
ness career  totaled  40  years  of  service  with 
various  divisions  of  the  Standard  Oil  Com- 
pany throughout  the  world,  is  presently  a 
member  of  the  Cultural  and  Heritage  Com- 
mittee, a  workerfor  New  Eyesforthe  Needy 
and  the  Red  Cross.  He  is  past-chairman 
of  the  Delaware-New  Jersey  Red  Cross 
Conference.  For  several  years  he  also  has 
been  active  in  the  New  Jersey  Partners  of 
the  Alliance  Committee.  This  committee 
has  a  partnership  with  a  similar  committee 
in  Alagoas,  Brazil.  These  involve  self- 
help  programs  in  the  hospitals  and  in  edu- 
cational fields.  Mr.  Hussey  is  executive 
vice-president  of  the  group. 

1926 

CHARLES  M.  MORAN,  chairman  of 
the  Union  Hospital  (Fall  River,  Mass.) 
corporation,  was  honored  for  his  quarter- 
century  of  imaginative  planning  in  Decem- 
ber when  two  modern  structures,  a  new 
wing  and  power  plant,  which  were  built 
under  his  leadership,  were  dedicated  in 
ceremonies  at  the  hospital.  In  the  dedica- 
tory issue  of  the  Union  Hospital  Log  the 
tribute  to  him  reads:  "His  engineering 
skill  and  knowledge,  his  profound  knowl- 
edge of  hospital  needs  and  operation,  his 
foresight  and  cooperation  with  the  medical 
staff  and  administration,  have  been  of  in- 
estimable value  to  the  Union  Hospital  and 


E  WPI  JOURNAL 


27 


the  people  it  serves."  Also  in  his  honor 
the  new  wing  of  the  hospital  has  been 
named  The  Charles  M.  Moran  Building. 

1927 

BURTON  E.  KELLEY  is  president  of 
CBF  Systems,  Inc.,  Covina,  California. 

RUSSELL  G.  WHITTEMORE,  director 
of  product  development  for  the  automotive 
group  of  Pittsburgh  Plate  Glass  Industries' 
Glass  Division,  retired  in  December  after 
43  years  with  the  company. 

A  national  authority  on  automotive 
and  aviation  glass  products,  Mr.  Whitte- 
more  devoted  his  career  to  product  de- 
velopment at  PPG's  research  laboratories, 
manufacturing  facilities  and  corporate 
headquarters. 

He  joined  PPG  in  1928  and  participated 
in  the  development  of  laminated  safety 
glass,  the  forerunner  of  present  automotive 
windshields  and  other  laminated  glass 
products  used  throughout  the  world.  Sub- 
sequently he  served  in  various  technical 
and  supervisory  positions  at  PPG's  Creigh- 
ton,  Pa.,  safety  glass  fabrication  operations. 

During  World  War  II  Mr.  Whittemore 
served  as  the  Glass  Division's  West  Coast 
technical  representative,  dealing  primarily 
with  the  glass  needs  of  the  aircraft  industry. 
He  went  to  the  Pittsburgh  headquarters  in 
the  same  capacity  in  1946  and  five  years 
later  was  named  director  of  product  de- 
velopment for  the  division.  He  was 
appointed  director  of  product  development 
for  automotive  glass  in  1962,  with  primary 
responsibility  for  the  technical  aspects  of 
automotive  glass  usage  and  safety. 


1929 

RICHARD  L.  VERVILLE,  having  recent- 
ly retired  as  division  superintendent  for  the 
New  England  Electric  System,  Massa- 
chusetts Electric  Company  Division,  North 
Andover,  Mass.,  now  makes  his  home  in 
Bethel,  Maine. 

1931 

EDWARD  J.  BAYON  has  been  named 
president  of  Tighe  &  Bond,  Inc.,  Holyoke, 
Mass.  Mr.  Bayon,  one  of  three  owners  of 
the  firm,  was  formerly  executive  vice- 
president.  Prior  to  joining  the  corporation 
fifteen  years  ago,  he  was  General  Superin- 
tendent of  Public  Works  in  Holyoke.  He 
is  a  registered  professional  engineer  and 
land  surveyor.  The  company  which  he 
now  heads  operates  a  sanitary  engineering 
laboratory,  and  most  recently  has  been 
very  active  in  assisting  industries  with 
applications  to  the  U.  S.  Corps  of  Engi- 
neers for  1899  Refuse  Act  Permits.  It  has 
also  been  active  in  the  development  of 
water  supply  systems  and  water  pollution 
control  facilities  for  many  of  the  Western 
Massachusetts  cities  and  towns  .  .  .  TRUE- 
MAN  L.  SANDERSON  has  retired  and  is 
wintering  in  Deltona,  Florida. 

1933 

Officials  of  Sikorsky  Aircraft  Division  of 
United     Aircraft     Corporation,     Stratford, 


28 


Conn.,  have  announced  the  promotion  of 
HARRY  T.  JENSEN  from  engineering 
manager  to  division  vice-president — en- 
gineering. The  new  vice-president  will  be 
responsible  for  executive  control  and  di- 
rection of  all  engineering  activities.  He 
joined  Sikorsky  in  1 941  as  a  radio  and  elec- 
trical designer.  He  has  held  the  positions 
of  chief  test  engineer,  chief  of  design  and 
test  engineering  and  holds  patents  on 
aircraft  design  and  test  methods.  He  was 
elected  a  Fellow  in  the  Royal  Aeronautical 
Society  and  an  Associate  Fellow  in  the 
American  Institute  of  Aeronautics. 

1935 

SAMUEL  D.  EHRLICH  writes  that  he  is 
the  vice-president  of  manufacturing  for 
Engineering  Design  Associates,  Reston, 
Va. . . .  Having  retired  as  vice-president  and 
general  manager  of  Remco  Products  Corp., 
York,  Pa.,  J.  CLIFFORD  MARTINKA  now 
resides  in  Marathon,  Florida  during  the 
winter  months.  Hamilton,  Montana  is  his 
summer  address  .  .  .  EDWARD  TAVIDIAN 
serves  as  an  electronics  engineer  for  Red- 
man Electronics  Corp.,  Enfield,  Conn.  .  .  . 
PLUMMER  WILEY  recently  attended  a 
wine  and  food  taster's  meeting  in  Paris, 
France. 

1936 

The  current  address  for  ERNST  P. 
KRIPPENDORF,  now  retired,  is  Mirror 
Lake,  N.H.  .  .-.  Also  retired  is  HAROLD  C. 
WHITMAN  who  makes  his  home  in  Or- 
mond  Beach,  Fla.  He  was  formerly  ad- 
ministration manager  for  Raytheon  Co., 
Counter  Measures  Dept.,  Wayland,  Mass. 

1937 

W.  ROBERT  POWERS  played  a  prom- 
inent role  in  the  TV  presentation  "Fire- 
trap"  which  was  aired  last  December.  He 
is  superintendent  of  the  Fire  Prevention 
Bureau  and  public  relations  for  the  City  of 
New  York  and  secretary  to  the  New  York 
Board  of  Underwriters.  He  is  also  author 
of  a  book  on  fire  prevention  which  has  been 
translated  into  Japanese.  One  of  his  three 
sons,  John  D.  Powers,  is  a  senior  at  WPI  . . . 
"The  country  is  fantastically  beautiful;  the 
climate  outstanding;  and  the  people  are 
just  out  of  this  world,"  writes  FRANK 
ROLLINS  glowingly  from  his  new  home  in 
Richmond,  Nelson,  New  Zealand.  Frank 
works  part  time  as  a  college  instructor  but 
is  also  looking  forward  to  purchasing  a 
500-acrefarm. 

1938 

Johns-Manville  Corp.,  Denver,  Colo- 
rado, employs  EDMUND  M.  FENNER, 
Director,  Environmental  Control.  He  lives 
in  Evergreen. 

1939 

CHARLES  H.AM  I  DON,  JR.,  of  Holden, 
Mass.,  has  been  appointed  engineering 
director  for  the  David  Gessner  Co.,  Worces- 
ter, Mass.  He  previously  held  the  same 
post  with  Butterworth  Manufacturing  of 
Philadelphia. 


1940 

KENNETH  R.  B  LAIS  DELL,  president  of 
Tectrol  Associates,  West  Springfield,  Mass., 
was  the  guest  speaker  for  the  January 
meeting  of  the  Central  Connecticut  Chap- 
ter of  the  Society  of  Manufacturing  En- 
gineers in  Ansonia,  Conn.  His  topic  was 
"Valves  That  Think."  With  the  aid  of 
demonstration  units  he  illustrated  how  to 
save  at  least  50  per  cent  of  design  and  in- 
stallation time  and  60  per  cent  of  down  time 
on  many  valve  applications.  He  also  illus- 
trated how  quick  they  are  to  install  and  easy 
to  understand.  In  1956  he  was  chairman 
of  the  Connecticut  Valley  Chapter  of 
ASTME  and  later  was  membership  vice 
chairman  of  the  national  chapter  in  New 
England.  In  November  he  received  a 
patent  on  sequence  valving  without  limit 
switches.  He  has  been  a  consulting  en- 
gineer in  the  fluid  power  field  and  a 
specialist  in  automation  equipment  for 
the  past  18  years.  He  is  a  registered  pro- 
fessional engineer.  Mr.  Blaisdell  has  been 
active  in  the  WPI  Alumni  Association 
serving  first  as  secretary-treasurer  and 
then  president  of  the  Connecticut  Valley 
Chapter.  In  1 965  he  was  a  Council  repre- 
sentative .  .  .  Officials  of  the  American  Re- 
Insurance  Company,  New  York  City,  re- 
cently announced  that  HERBERT  W. 
SHAW,  JR.,  has  been  named  a  senior 
vice-president  of  the  firm.  Mr.  Shaw 
joined  the  company  in  1963  as  a  property 
facultative  underwriter,  became  assistant 
secretary  in  1964  and  vice-president  in 
1 966.  Previously  he  was  with  Springfield 
Fire  &  Marine,  Hutchinson,  Rivinus  &  Com- 
pany and  the  Factory  Insurance  Associa- 
tion. 

1943 

The  principal  structural  engineer  for 
the  Jackson  &  Moreland  Division,  U.E.  & 
C,  is  GEORGE  W.  GOLDING,  JR.  The 
company  is  located  in  Santurce,  Puerto 
Rico  .  .  .  FRANK  McNAMARA  has  been 
named  the  manager  of  sales  administration 
for  the  Caterpillar  Americas  Co.,  a  Cater- 
piller  subsidiary,  in  Peoria,  Illinois. 


1944 

SHERMAN  B.  CAMPBELL,  former 
manager  of  research  and  development  for 
Advanced  Digital  Systems,  Inc.,  Mohawk, 
N.Y.,  has  been  promoted  to  the  post  of 
vice-president  of  engineering.  Prior  to  his 
joining  ADS  in  February  of  1970,  he  was 
manager  of  the  Sterilizer  Product  Develop- 
ment Division,  American  Sterilizer  Com- 
pany, Erie,  Pa.  .  .  .  At  the  annual  meeting 
of  the  Consumers  Savings  Bank,  Worcester, 
Mass.,  IRVING  JAMES  DONAHUE,  JR., 
was  elected  to  the  board  of  trustees.  Jim 
is  president  and  treasurer  of  Donahue  In- 
dustries, Inc.,  Shrewsbury,  Mass.  He  is 
also  president  of  the  Central  Massachusetts 
Employers  Association,  vice-chairman  of 
the  Shrewsbury  Finance  Committee  and 
president  of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association 
.  .  .  FRED  S.  MOULTON,  now  a  self-em- 
ployed investment  manager,  resides  in 
Denver,  Colorado. 


THE  WPI  JOURN/l  | 


1946 

Vice-President  of  GTE  International 
Systems  Corp., Tehran,  Iran,  is  ROBERT  H. 
-ARWELL  .  .  .  RICHARD  M.  UNDER- 
WOOD of  New  Canaan,  Conn.,  has  been 
lamed  a  vice-president  of  Honeywell 
Inc.'s  computer  operations  with  head- 
quarters in  New  York  City.  He  is  re- 
sponsible for  the  marketing  of  the  firm's 
:omputer  equipment  and  services  through- 
Dut  the  northeast  portion  of  the  U.S., 
:overing  an  area  from  New  York  to  Ohio 
and  from  Maine  to  Delaware.  Mr.  Under- 
wood, who  joined  Honeywell  in  1 958,  had 
seen  a  director  of  field  marketing  since 
sarly  1970.  Before  moving  to  New  York 
ie  was  regional  director  in  Detroit,  and 
Drior  to  that,  branch  manager  in  Cleveland. 

1946B 

JOHN  W.  CARPENTER,  JR.,  district 
sales  manager  for  National  Homes  Corp., 
las  moved  his  business  headquarters  from 
3rand  Rapids  to  Walloon  Lake,  Michigan 
I  .  .  A  resident  of  Cohasset,  Mass.,  A. 
-EWIS  ROGERS,  JR.,  is  the  new  general 
sales  manager  at  Instrumentation  Labora- 
ory,  Inc.,  of  Lexington.  He  is  responsible 
or  sales  and  service  for  IL's  domestic, 
Canadian,  and  Mexican  markets.  He  will 
also  oversee  both  existing  and  newly- 
developing  product  lines.  Mr.  Rogers  was 
Dreviously  associated  with  Quantum  Com- 
Duter  Corp.  and  Honeywell,  Inc.,  before 
going  with  IL.  Instrumentation  Laboratory 
nc,  manufacturers  of  scientific  instru- 
nents  for  use  in  medicine  and  industry, 
naintains  plants  in  Lexington  and  Water- 
:own,  Mass.,  Milan,  Italy,  and  Hersel, 
West  Germany. 

1947 

GEORGE  W.  BROUGHTON  is  quality 
control  supervisor  for  the  Laminated  & 
boated  Products  Division  of  the  St.  Regis 
3aper  Company,  Attleboro,  Mass. 

1948 

NORMAN  L.  DIEGOLI  of  Middleboro, 
Vlass.,  is  one  of  three  candidates  seeking  a 
:hree-year  term  on  the  Middleboro  School 


Committee.  A  registered  professional 
engineer,  for  23  years  he  has  been  em- 
ployed by  the  Massachusetts  Department 
of  Public  Works.  He  is  a  member  of  the 
Middleboro  Municipal  Sites  Acquisition 
Board  and  the  Advisory  Staff  of  the  Mid- 
dleboro Planning  Board  ...  A  former 
selectman  of  New  Salem,  Mass.,  ROBERT 
W.  HENDERSON,  is  currently  serving  as 
town  moderator. 

1949 

Bostitch  Division  of  Textron  Inc.  has 
named  JOSEPH  R.  WINSLOW,  chief  plant 
engineer,  as  manager,  environmental  con- 
trol, for  plants  at  East  Greenwich,  R.I.,  and 
Clinton,  Conn.  Mr.  Winslow  joined 
Bostitch  in  the  fall  of  1969  after  service 
with  Kaiser  Aluminum  in  Baltimore,  Md., 
and  Wyman-Gordon  Co.,  North  Grafton, 
Mass. 

1950 

LT.  COL.  FRANK  W.  HARDING  III 
of  Garden  Grove,  Calif.,  is  currently  located 
at  the  USAF  Space  &  Missiles  Systems 
Organization  in  Los  Angeles.  He  was 
promoted  to  the  rank  of  Colonel  in  Novem- 
ber of  1971  ...  RICHARD  LYON,  JR.,  of 
Hubbardston,  Mass.,  is  seeking  a  third  term 
as  selectman  in  the  town  election.  He 
served  on  the  local  school  committee  for 
seven  years  and  on  the  Quabbin  Regional 
School  Committee  for  three  years.  He  is  a 
teacher  at  Quabbin  Regional  High  School 
...  It  was  recently  announced  that  HAM- 
MOND ROBERTSON,  JR.,  has  been 
appointed  vice-president  of  Franconia 
Manufacturing  Corp.,  Lincoln,  N.H. 

ROBERT  F.  STEWART,  newly  named 
president  of  the  industrial  products  di- 
vision of  North  American  Rockwell,  re- 
cently visited  the  Acme  Chain  Division  in 
Holyoke,  Mass.  Following  his  tour  he 
said  that  the  Holyoke  division  looked  good. 
"I'm  optimistic,"  he  said,  noting  it  looks  as 
if  there  will  be  a  continued  increase  in  the 
economic  picture. 

1951 

CDR.  CHARLES  G.  DARRELL,  who 
resides  in  Maryland,  serves  the  U.S.  Navy  at 
OFC,    NAV    Research    in    Arlington,    Va. 


MORGAN 
CONSTRUCTION  CO, 

ENGINEERS  &  MANUFACTURERS 
WORCESTER,  MASSACHUSETTS  01605 


.  .  .  The  former  president  of  Chemetron- 
Noury  Corporation,  GARY  GEISSLER, 
has  accepted  the  position  of  sales  man- 
ager for  the  Hooker  Chemical  Corporation, 
Niagara  Falls,  N.Y.  He  was  with  Merck 
&  Co.,  Rahway,  N.J. .from  1951  until  1963. 
Joining  Chemetron  Corporation  in  1963 
as  manager  of  commercial  development,  he 
subsequently  held  the  posts  of  assistant 
general  manager  and  general  manager  of 
organic  chemicals  .  .  .  USAF  CAPT. 
EDWARD  A.  KACMARCIK,  who  was  re- 
cently stationed  at  Stewart  Air  Force  Base, 
Newburgh,  N.Y.,  is  presently  serving  at 
Westover  Air  Force  Base  in  Massachusetts. 
.  .  .  The  president  of  Mackay  Paving  Co., 
Tryon,  N.C.,  is  STILLMAN  MACKAY  .  .  . 
DUNCAN  W.  MUNRO  of  Northboro, 
Mass.,  superintendent  of  Mount  Auburn 
Cemetery  in  Cambridge,  has  been  ap- 
pointed general  chairman  of  the  1972 
Management  Conference  of  the  American 
Cemetery  Association  slated  to  be  held 
April  23-27  in  Martinique,  French  West 
Indies.  Mr.  Munro  is  currently  a  director 
of  ACA  and  has  served  in  other  leadership 
posts.  He  has  been  superintendent  at 
Mount  Auburn  since  1 967.  At  the  present 
time  he  is  serving  as  president  of  the 
Massachusetts  Cemetery  Association  and 
as  a  director  of  the  New  England  Cemetery 
Association. 

1952 

LEO  0.  LUTZ  serves  as  chief  engineer 
for  the  Nashua  Corp.,  Nashua,  N.H. 

1953 

The  vice-president  of  United  States 
Radium  Corporation,  ROBERT  C.  WOOD- 
WARD, resides  in  Basking  Ridge,  N.J. 
His  business  is  located  in  Morristown. 

1954 

Meckler  Associates  Inc.,  of  Los  An- 
geles, of  which  MILTON  MECKLER  is 
president,  has  entered  a  joint  venture  with 
The  Engineers  Collaborative  of  Chicago, 
Illinois.  The  new  firm  is  known  as  The 
Engineers  Collaborative  of  California,  with 
offices  in  Chicago,  Los  Angeles,  and  St. 
Louis,  Mo.  Mr.  Meckler,  who  launched 
his  consulting  engineers  firm  in  1970,  has 
been  an  engineering  consultant  for  twelve 
years.  He  is  the  inventor  of  a  hydraulic 
structural  system  for  high-rise  buildings, 
has  lectured  extensively,  and  is  the  author 
of  technical  articles  on  a  variety  of  subjects. 
He  is  a  member  of  the  American  Society 
of  Mechanical  Engineers  and  holds  a 
Certificate  of  Qualification  issued  by  the 
National  Council  of  State  Boards  of  En- 
gineering Examiners. 

1956 

E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  of  Wilming- 
ton, Del.,  employs  RICHARD  J.  EMERY  as 
a  manufacturing  assistant  .  .  .  RONALD  A. 
VENEZIA  is  chief  of  the  office  of  land  use 
planning  for  the  Division  of  Control  Sys- 
tems at  the  Environmental  Protection 
Agency,  Research  Triangle  Park,  N.C. 


|  WPI  JOURNAL 


29 


1957 

DONALD  F.  BERTH  has  moved  from 
Ithaca,  N.Y.  to  Amherst,  Mass.     Berth,  the 


former  editor  of  the  Cornell  Engineering 
Quarterly  has  been  named  Director  of 
Development  and  Public  Relations  at 
Hampshire  College,  where  he  is  also 
secretary  to  the  Board  of  Trustees.  .  .  KURT 
H.  FRANCE,  a  project  engineer  for  CH2M- 
H ill.  Redding,  Calif.,  resides  in  Palo  Cedro. 
The  Frances  have  three  children:  daughter 
Kirsten  and  sons  Eric,  1 1,  and  Roger,  9  .  .  . 
It  was  recently  announced  that  ROBERT 
R.  PURPLE  has  been  named  assistant 
manager  of  the  filter  division  of  the 
Sprague  Electric  Company,  North  Adams, 
Mass.  Mr.  Purple  will  now  be  responsible 
for  the  division's  design,  material  manage- 
ment and  production  groups  related  to  the 
Marshall  St.  plant.  A  Sprague  Electric 
employee  since  May  1958,  he  has  held 
various  engineering  and  sales  posts.  Most 
recently  he  was  division  marketing  man- 
ager. 

1958 

ROGER  A.  JOLICOEUR  works  as 
program  manager  for  Sylvania  Electronics 
Systems,  Needham,  Mass.  .  .  .  Vice-presi- 
dent of  Electronic  Marketing,  Specialists, 
of  Van  Nuys,  Calif,  is  DOUGLAS  H.  REED 
of  Orange. 

1959 

Married:  DAVID  R.  BRAGG  to  Miss 
Andrea  Rose  Nichols  of  North  Branford, 
Conn.,  on  January  8,  1972.  The  groom  is 
employed  by  Cahn  Engineers,  Inc.,  of 
New  Haven.  The  bride  graduated  from 
the  New  Haven  Academy  of  Business. 
They  are  making  their  home  in  Guilford, 
Conn. 


30 


WILLIAM  A.  RABINOVITCH,  '58,  who 
is  making  quite  a  name  for  himself  in  the 
art  world,  had  a  one-man  exhibition  of 
large  paintings  at  the  Monterey  Jazz  Festi- 
val in  California  last  September. 

The  focal  point  of  the  exhibit  was  his 
massive  "Sky  City,"  a  7  ft.  by  1 2  ft.  painting 
done  in  oil  on  acrylic  on  linen. 

Mr.  Rabinovitch  has  won  a  number  of 
awards  for  his  paintings  and  has  shown  his 
work  throughout  this  country  and  in 
Europe.  He  was  awarded  first  prize  in 
graphics  and  second  prize  in  painting  at 
the  1970  Monterey  County  Fair.  In  1966 
he  received  first  prize  in  the  Naval  Post 
Graduate  School  Religious  Art  Contest. 

Alfred  Frankenstein,  senior  art  critic  of 
the  San  Francisco  Chronicle,  awarded  him 
first  prize  for  work  shown  at  his  one-man 
show  at  the  Monterey  Peninsula  Museum 
of  Art  in  1 965.  In  1 965  he  also  won  first 
prize  at  the  Monterey  Jazz  Festival. 

The  Pacific  Grove  (Calif.)  Art  Center, 
the  Avanti  Gallery  in  New  York  City,  and 
the  Silvermine  (Conn.)  Competitive  have 
accepted  his  paintings  for  exhibition  and 
judging.  In  1 968  he  had  a  one-man  show 
in  Madrid,  Spain,  which  was  sponsored 
jointly  by  the  American  Embassy  and  the 
"Associacion  Cultural  Hispano  Norte- 
americano."  He  has  shown  in  other  com- 
petitions and  group  shows  and  operated 
an  experimental  Art  Center  on  Cannery 
Row  for  several  years.  In  1971  he  was  on 
the  film  selection  committee  of  the 
Monterey  Film  Festival. 

After  graduating  from  WPI  in  1958 
with  a  degree  in  mechanical  engineering, 
Mr.  Rabinovitch  studied  painting  at  the 
Boston  Museum  School  of  Fine  Arts  and 
the  San  Francisco  Art  Institute.  Currently 
his  work  may  be  seen  in  the  Rental  Gallery 
of  the  Monterey  Peninsula  Museum  of  Art, 
the  Gilbert  Gallery  in  San  Francisco,  and  at 
his  studio  at  638  Lottie  Street  in  Monterey. 

1960 
ROBERT  J.  KANDALL  holds  the  posi- 
tion of  sales  representative  with  M.  W. 
Kellogg  Co.  of  Schiller  Park,  Illinois  .  .  . 
Bendix  Abrasives,  Jackson,  Mi.,  employs 
RICHARD  S.  MEYER,  senior  engineer  .  .  . 


JOHN  S.  O'CONNELL,  JR.,  who  has  been  Ccn 
studying  as  a  graduate  student  at  the  <  Ini-  sjo» 
versity  of  California  at  Berkeley,  has  moved  I  $ 
from  San  Jose  to  Oakland  .  .  .  BERNARD  J  ft 
L.  TETREAULT  is  Executive  Director  of  the  u> 
Montgomery  County  Housing  Authority  in     Hi: 

Silver  Spring,  Md JOHN  E.  VANDER-    L" 

SEA  serves  as  advisory  engineer  for  IBM     Jc 
in  France  .  .  .  Since  September  of  1971 
PETER  S.  ZILKO  has  been  employed  by    | 
Allen  Bradley  Co.  (Systems  Division),  in  I 
the    marketing    department    at    Highland 
Heights,  Ohio. 

1961 

A  Pennsylvania  resident,  GEORGE  F. 
FOXHALL,  has  been  promoted  to  head  of 
the  Integrated  Circuit  and  Models  De- 
partment at  Bell  Laboratories  in  Reading. 
He  will  be  responsible  for  the  design  and 
process  development  of  integrated  circuits. 
After  joining  Bell  in  1961,  he  became  en- 
gaged in  germanium  device  development 
and  devised  a  new  technique  for  the  dif- 
fusion of  arsenic  in  germanium  at  tempera- 
tures up  to  900  degrees  Centigrade.  Later 
he  was  involved  with  the  development  of  a 
variety  of  miniature  silicon  diodes.  Re- 
cently Mr.  Foxhall  has  been  concerned  with 
the  applications  of  ion  implantation  to  the 
fabrication  of  devices  .  .  .  DANIEL  D. 
GELLER  is  employed  as  director  of  the  Di- 
vision of  Equal  Opportunity,  U.S.  Environ- 
mental Protection  Agency,  Philadelphia, 
Pa.  He,  his  wife,  and  children,  Lara  41/4 
and  Jennifer.  3,  reside  in  Cherry  Hill,  N.J. 
.  .  .  U.S.  Army  Major  NORMAN  I.  GINS- 
BURG  has  moved  from  California  to  Geor- 
gia ..  .  DR.  PETER  J.  NATALE,  who  lives 
in  Canton,  Mass.,  is  a  biochemist  at  MIT 
in  Cambridge  .  .  .  Senior  programmer/ 
analyst  for  the  Depositors  Trust  Company, 
Augusta,  Me., is  DAVID  Q.  OLSON. 

THOMAS  J.  PEARSALL  of  Northford, 
Conn.,  works  as  plant  manager  for  RSC 
Industries,  Plasma  Division,  in  North 
Haven  .  .  .  ROBERT  W.  SCHOMBER  has 
employment  as  director  of  manufacturing 
with  Thunderbird  Products  Corp.,  North 
Miami,  Florida  ...  On  sabbatical  leave  from 
Berkshire  Community  College,  Pittsfield, 
Mass.,  is  ROGER  W.  STRICKLAND  who 
currently  resides  at  the  University  of  Cali- 
fornia at  San  Diego.  At  Berkshire  he  is 
director  of  the  Regional  Computer  Center 
and  also  chairman  of  the  Department  of 
Computer  Science  .  .  .  PROF.  WILLIAM 
B.  PEIRCE  is  an  associate  professor  at 
Cape  Cod  Community  College  in  West 
Barnstable,  Mass. 

1962 

DR.  KENNETH  J.  ANUSAVICE,  who 
has  been  serving  as  technical  analyst  for 
the  U.  S.  Atomic  Energy  Commission  at 
the  Savannah  River  Operations  Office  in 
Aiken,  S.C.,  now  lives  in  Augusta,  Georgia 
.  .  .  BERNARD  J.  MEISTER  who  used  to 
live  in  Midland,  Mich.,  has  moved  to 
Auburn.  He  is  with  the  Dow  Chemical  Co. 
in  Midland. 

1963 

ROBERT  M.  MELLOR  of  Northbridge,  U 
Mass.,  has  taken  out  nomination  papers    ». 


THE  WPI  JOURNA 


for  a  three-year  term  on  the  Town  Road 
Commission.  He  is  a  registered  profes- 
sional engineer  and  is  employed  as  assist- 
ant division  line  superintendent  with  the 
Mass.  Electric  Co.  in  Worcester.  A  former 
chairman  and  member  of  the  Northbridge 
High  School  Building  and  Site  Committee, 
he  is  also  a  member  of  the  Democratic 
Town  Committee. 

1964 

CAPT.  ROBERT  S.  NAJAKA  has 
graduated  from  the  Air  University's  Squad- 
ron Officer  School  at  Maxwell  AFB, 
Alabama.  He  was  specially  selected  for 
|:he  14-week  course  in  recognition  of  his 
potential  as  a  leader  in  the  aerospace  force. 
He  is  being  re-assigned  to  Vance  AFB, 
iDkla.,  as  an  aircraft  maintenance  officer, 
i^apt.  Najaka  has  served  in  Viet  Nam  .  .  . 
:HARLES  H.  PEIX,  JR.,  teaches  mathe- 
matics at  Canton  (Mass.)  High  School  .  .  . 
3AUL  J.  SROKA  is  an  engineer  with 
fransco  Products,  Inc.,  Venice,  Calif. 


1965 

The  appointment  of  THOMAS  P. 
XRCARI  to  the  position  of  engineer  in  the 
:ivil  engineering  department  at  Northeast 
Jtilities  Service  Co.,  Hartford,  Conn.,  was 
ecently  announced.  He  began  his  utility 
:areer  as  an  assistant  engineer  at  North- 
:ast  Utilities  in  1969  and  is  a  registered 
)rofessional  engineer.  Previously  he  was 
vith  Combustion  Engineering  of  Windsor, 
^onn.,  and  Sikorsky  Aircraft  in  Stratford. 
..DR.  RICHARD  N.JOHNSON  is  a  fellow 
n  biomedical  engineering  at  Johns  Hop- 
.ins  Medical  School,  Baltimore,  Maryland. 
. .  The  Public  Service  Co.  of  (Manchester) 
nI.H.  employs  PHILIP  C.  MARTIN,  assist- 
mt  relay  engineer  ...  A  Somerset,  Mass., 
lative,  GERALD  F.  MORRIS,  has  been 
lamed  an  assistant  treasurer  of  Textron 
nc.  of  Providence.  Since  he  joined  Textron 
h  July  of  1  970  he  has  served  as  assistant 
o  the  treasurer.  He  also  is  an  evening 
acuity  member  at  Bryant  College  Gradu- 
te  School.  Prior  to  his  joining  Textron  he 
vas  with  the  New  York  Telephone  Co. 

ROLLIN  K.  CORWIN  was  recently 
ppointed  as  the  Southwest  regional  man- 
ger of  Airpax  Electronics  in  Houston, 
'exas.  In  his  new  position  he  is  directly 
ssponsible  for  training,  technical  assist- 
nce  and  sales  supervision  for  the  Controls 
)ivision  product  lines  for  Texas,  Oklahoma, 
.ouisiana  and  Mississippi.  Mr.  Corwin 
as  been  in  electronics  as  a  service  en- 
ineer  for  both  analog  and  digital  control 
ystems  in  the  process  and  power  indus- 
•ies,  sales  engineer  in  the  petro-chemical 
idustry  and  later  had  sales  responsibilities 
3r  digital  computing  systems  in  South 
exas,  Louisiana  and  Arkansas. 

1966 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  PETER  J. 
.UDLESS,  a  daughter,  Noelle  Marie,  on 
lecember  24,  1971.  Peter  is  with  the 
ublic  Service  Electric  &  Gas  Co.  of  New 
ersey  in  Newark.  The  family  lives  in 
outh  Plainfield,  N.J. 


DR.  LIONEL  A.  CARREIRA  is  a  re- 
search associate  at  the  University  of  South 
Carolina  in  Columbia  .  .  .  RONALD  C. 
HAYDEN  holds  the  post  of  sales  engineer 
at  the  Foxboro  Co.,  Baltimore,  Md.  .  .  . 
JAMES  E.  LOOMIS  serves  as  resident  en- 
gineer for  Stone  &  Webster  Engineering 
Corp.,  Boston,  Mass.  .  .  .  Project  manager 
for  J.  M.  Rosa  Construction  Co.,  Norwich, 
Conn.,  is  JOHN  V.  MAGNANO  who  re- 
resides  in  Westbrook  .  .  .  JOHN  P. 
SEFERIADIS,  who  has  been  with  the  Field 
Office  at  Lake  Yellowstone  National  Park, 
Wyoming,  has  relocated  in  New  Bedford, 
Mass.  .  .  .  LRC,  Inc.,  of  Hudson,  N.H.,  has 
announced  the  appointment  of  HEYWARD 
S.WILLIAMS  of  Amherst  as  chief  engineer. 
He  brings  to  LRC,  Inc.,  a  depth  of  experi- 
ence in  signal  processing,  log  video 
amplifiers  and  miniature  power  supplies. 
Previously  he  was  a  design  engineer  on  the 
technical  staff  of  Sanders  Associates,  Inc., 
Nashua,  N.H. 


1967 

Married:  MATH  EOS  S.  KALFAYAN  to 
Miss  Nancy  G.  Bejian  in  New  York  City  on 
July  10,  1971.  ROUMEN  B.  KORDOF, 
'68,  was  best  man.  Since  receiving  his 
MBA  from  the  University  of  Pittsburgh  in 
1970,  the  groom  has  been  employed  by 
Inland  Steel  Company,  East  Chicago, 
Indiana.  The  newlyweds  are  living  in 
Griffith,  Indiana. 

"Estimating  the  Costs  of  Gas-Cleaning 
Plants"  is  the  title  of  the  article  which 
J.  R.  F.  ALONSO  wrote  for  the  December 
issue  of  the  magazine  Chemical  Engineer- 
ing. The  author  is  presently  completing 
his  Ph.D.  requirements  at  the  University  of 
Melbourne  in  Victoria,  Australia.  His 
professional  experience  includes  two  years 
in  the  computer  department  of  The  M.  W. 
Kellogg  Co.  and  one  year  as  an  IBM  re- 
search assistant  at  the  MIT  Computer 
Center.  He  has  also  been  a  demonstrator 
in  the  Department  of  Industrial  Science  at 
the  University  of  Melbourne  .  .  .  U.S.  Army 
Captains  EDWARD  A.  GALLO  and 
ROBERT  J.  GALLO,  '68,  are  both  currently 
serving  in  Viet  Nam.  Capt.  Edward  Gallo 
is  assigned  as  a  system  analyst  with  the 
directorate  of  public  safety,  Civil  Opera- 
tions and  Rural  Development  Support 
(CORDS)  and  is  stationed  in  Saigon.  He 
recently  completed  an  assignment  at  Fort 
Bliss,  Texas,  where  he  received  his  master's 
degree  in  mathematics  from  the  University 
of  Texas  at  El  Paso.  Capt.  Robert  Gallo  is 
assigned  as  an  engineer  staff  advisor  with 
Headquarters,  Second  Regional  Assistance 
Group  in  Pleiku.  He  was  formerly  em- 
ployed by  the  Connecticut  State  Highway 
Dept.  The  brothers  recently  spent  a  leave 
together  in  Saigon  .  .  .  STEPHEN  R. 
LUBER  is  a  student  at  the  University  of 
California  Medical  School,  San  Francisco, 
California  .  .  .  ERNEST  L.  SMITH,  JR., 
SIM,  has  announced  his  candidacy  for  re- 
election to  a  three-year  term  on  the  Auburn, 
Mass.  School  Committee.  A  23-year  service 
veteran  of  the  Cincinnati  Milacron-Heald 
Corp.,  Worcester,  he  is  presently  chief 
industrial  engineer.    Mr.  Smith  said  that  he 


is  seeking  re-election  "so  as  to  continue 
and  maintain  continuity  of  program,  and 
that  his  experience  should  offer  good 
balance  for  the  town  in  program,  budget 
knowledge  and  control." 

1968 

Married:  CHESTER  J.  KASPER  to  Miss 
Carol  E.  Hauger  of  Williamstown,  Ct.,  on 
November23,1971.  Mrs.  Kasper,  a  gradu- 
ate of  Ohio  University,  Athens,  Ohio,  is  a 
teacher  of  special  education  in  the  Glaston- 
bury schools.  The  groom  is  a  design  en- 
gineer for  Pratt  &  Whitney. . . .  STEPH  EN  W. 
PETROFF  to  Miss  Carla  Elaine  Oswald  on 
December  17,  1971  in  Portuguese  Bend, 
Calif.  Steve  is  an  assistant  highway  engi- 
neer for  the  State  of  California  Division  of 
Highways,   Los  Angeles. 

Purdue  University  Propulsion  Center 
has  employed  FRANCIS  L.  ADDESSIO 
as  a  research  assistant.  He  lives  in  West 
Lafayette,  lnd....Army  CAPTAIN  JOHN  A. 
CAPRIO  recently  was  assigned  to  the 
504th  Military  Police  Battalion's  Head- 
quarters Detachment  near  Da  Nang,  Viet 
Nam,  as  adjutant.  He  entered  the  army  in 
July  1969  and  was  last  stationed  in 
Germany.  He  holds  the  Army  Commenda- 
tion Medal . . .  1/LT.  GEORGE  DAVAGIAN, 
JR.,  who  taught  at  the  Engineer  School  at 
Fort  Belvoir,  Va.,  until  September  1971,  is 
now  stationed  in  the  Central  Highlands, 
Viet  Nam.  He  is  currently  in  charge  of  all 
the  surveying  in  a  road-building  project 
slated  to  be  finished  in  April  1972  .  .  . 
RICHARD  A.  FORMATO  of  Charlton, 
Mass.,  has  been  studying  as  a  graduate 
student  in  the  Department  of  Electrical  En- 
gineering at  MIT . . .  BERTON  H.  GUNTER, 
who  received  his  master's  degree  in  mathe- 
matics in  1 971 ,  works  as  a  graduate  teach- 
ing assistant  at  the  University  of  Illinois  .  . . 
PAUL  G.  LARINI  is  an  actuarial  assistant 
at  State  Mutual  in  Worcester .  .  .  JOHN  D. 
MacDOUGALL,  JR.,  has  accepted  a 
position  as  a  mechanical  engineer  with 
Mohasco  Industries,  Inc.,  Amsterdam,  N.Y. 
.  .  .  Purolator,  Inc.,  of  Rahway,  N.J.,  em- 
ploys JOHN  S.  MAZUR,  project  engineer. 

JACK  S.  SIEGEL  serves  as  a  plan  man- 
ager for  the  Environmental  Protection 
Agency,  Research  Triangle  Park,  N.C. 
.  .  .  Studying  for  his  MBA  at  the  University 
of  Massachusetts,  Amherst,  is  CARL  P. 
STEELE  who  shares  an  apartment  with 
ANDREW  L.  PIRETTI  in  Holyoke. 


1969 

Married:  EDWARD  L.  GRIFFITH,  JR., 
and  Miss  Barbara  McDermott  in  Man- 
hattan Beach,  California  on  September  18, 
1971.  Ed  is  a  civil  engineer  for  the  State 
of  California  Department  of  Highways, 
Los  Angeles.  The  couple  lives  in  Ingle- 
wood,  Calif.. .RICHARD  J.  WARREN  to 
Miss  Karen  C.  Ettinger  of  Ridgefield,  Con- 
necticut on  December  26,  1971.  RICH- 
ARD P.  ROMEO  served  as  best  man. 
The  bride  is  a  graduate  of  Ithaca  College, 
Ithaca,  N.Y.  Dick  is  employed  at  Electric 
Regulator  Corp.,  Norwalk,  Conn.,  where 
he  works  as  a  sales  representative.  He 
recently  received  his  MBA  degree  from  the 


WPI  JOURNAL 


31 


Amos  Tuck  School  of  Business  Adminis- 
tration at  Dartmouth  College,  Hanover, 
N.H. 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  STANLEY  J. 
GOLDMAN,  a  daughter,  Keri  Lynn,  on 
October  12,  1971.  Keri  joins  her  brother, 
Chad,  who  was  two  years  old  last  July. 
Stan  is  a  graduate  teaching  assistant  at 
Northeastern  University  and  will  receive 
his  master's  degree  in  political  science  in 
June. 

DAVID  H.  JOHNSON  was  discharged 
from  the  army  in  January  and  has  returned 
to  work  at  the  New  England  Telephone  and 
Telegraph  Co.  in  Springfield,  Mass.  .  .  . 
A  Laurel,  Md.,  resident,  RONALD  C. 
LEWIS,  has  the  position  of  staff  civil  en- 
gineer at  Leavitt  and  Sons,  Inc.,  Hyattes- 

ville,  Md ROGER  W.  MILES  has  been 

discharged  from  the  army  and  is  with  the 
General  Electric  Co.,  Ashland,  Mass.  A 
manufacturing  systems  engineer,  he  re- 
sides in  Plymouth  .  .  .  USAF  1/LT.  DOUG- 
LAS A.  NELSON  has  arrived  for  duty  at 
Kunsan  AB,  Republic  of  Korea.  Lt.  Nelson 
is  an  F-4  Phantom  fighter-bomber  pilot. 
He  previously  served  at  George  AFB, 
Calif.  He  was  commissioned  in  1969 
upon  graduating  from  Officer  Training 
School  at  Lackland  AFB,  Texas  .  .  .  LT. 
THOMAS  F.  TAYLOR,  USA,  has  com- 
pleted a  Field  Artillery  officer  basic  course 
at  the  Army  Field  Artillery  School  at  Ft. 
Sill,  Okla.  Lt.  Taylor  entered  the  army  in 
January  1971  ...  PHILLIP  R.  WILSEY, 
JR.,  is  a  mechanical  design  engineer  for 
Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft,  East  Hartford, 
Conn. 


1970 

Married:  ALAN  S.  BREITMAN  to 
Miss  Pamela  Rutman  of  Worcester,  Mass., 
on  November  21,  1971,  in  Chateau  Garod, 
Brookline.  Mrs.  Breitman,  a  senior  at 
Northeastern  University,  is  majoring  in 
nursing.  Alan  is  a  computer  programmer 
at  the  John  Hancock  Mutual  Life  Insurance 
Co.  in  Boston.  The  couple  lives  in  West 
Roxbury  .  .  .  JOHN  M.  GALVIN  and  Miss 
Constance  D.  Bruso  of  North  Brookfield, 
Mass.,  on  December  12,  1971.  Among 
the  ushers  were  JAMES  F.  FORD  and 
KENNETH  H.  MORGAN.  The  bride  is  a 
graduate  of  the  Memorial  Hospital  School 
of  Nursing,  Worcester,  and  is  a  staff  nurse 
at  the  hospital.  John  is  a  graduate  student 
at  Northeastern  University  where  he  is 
studying  actuarial  sciences.  He  also  is  an 
actuarial  assistant  for  State  Mutual  Life 
Assurance  Co.,  Worcester.  The  Galvins 
reside  in  Worcester.. .ROBERTJ.  MULCAHY 
to  Miss  Barbara  George  Rosenfeld  of  Law- 
ence,  Mass.,  on  December  4,  1971.  Mrs. 
Mulcahy,  a  graduate  of  Becker  Junior  Col- 
lege, has  been  employed  as  a  medical 
secretary  at  Bon  Secour  Hospital  in  the 
X-ray  department.  Her  husband  is  with 
Bell  Labs  Research  Center,  Cranford,  N.J. 
.  .  .  JOSEPH  CASCIO,  JR.,  works  as  a 
process  engineer  for  Arizona  Portland 
Cement  Co.,  Rillito,  Arizona  .  .  .  WILLIAM 
J.  HAKKINEN  and  his  wife  have  purchased 
a  home  in  Groton,  Conn.  .  .  .  LEONARD 


32 


POLIZZOTTO,  who  received  his  MS  from 
WPI  in  February,  is  with  the  American 
Telephone  &  Telegraph  Co.  (Long  Lines) 
in  New  York  City  ...  1/LT  DAVID  T. 
ROCKWELL  received  a  master  of  business 
administration  degree  recently  from  West- 
ern New  England  College,  West  Spring- 
field, Mass.  He  received  his  regular  Army 
commission  in  June  1970.  First  assigned 
to  the  Army  Finance  Corps,  he  was  given  a 
temporary  assignment  at  WNEC  to  com- 
plete his  MBA  degree.  He  is  now  await- 
ing orders  to  a  new  assignment.  While 
studying  at  WNEC  Lt.  Rockwell  assisted 
the  director  of  the  Community  Health 
Education  Commission  in  West  Spring- 
field. 

1971 

Married:  GEORGE  J.  BAKEVICH  and 
Miss  Joyce  E.  Leslie  of  Worcester,  Mass., 
on  June  19,  1971.  George,  who  was 
awarded  a  fellowship,  is  presently  a 
graduate  student  at  the  University  of  Utah 
where  he  is  working  for  his  master's  de- 
gree in  nuclear  engineering.  He  will  be 
doing  his  thesis  research  at  the  National 
Reactor  Testing  Station  in  Idaho  Falls, 
Idaho.  Currently  he  and  his  wife  reside 
in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  .  .  .  MICHAEL  H. 
TUREK  to  Miss  Sharon  Wagner  of  New 
Britain,  Conn.,  on  June  26, 1 971 .  Michael 
is  an  MBA  graduate  student  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Connecticut. 

JOHN  J.  BOURSY,  JR.,  is  employed 
as  an  electronic  engineer  in  the  Aural  New 
and  Changed  Facilities  Branch  of  the 
Broadcast  Facilities  Division  of  the  Broad- 
cast Bureau  of  the  Federal  Communications 


Commission  in  Washington,  D.C. .  .  .  Serv- 
ing as  a  graduate  teaching  assistant  in  the 
chemistry  department  at  the  University  of 
Virginia  is  STEPHEN  A.  DIMING  of 
Charlottesville,  Va.  Last  summer  he  did 
contraceptive  steroidal  drug  research  for 
F.    Hoffmann-LaRoche    &    Co.,    Ltd.,    in 

Basel,  Switzerland IOHN  L.  LANDALL 

serves  with  the  U.S.  Army  Corps  of  En- 
gineers, N.E.  Division,  Waltham,  Mass. 
.  .  .  ROBERT  H.  MANDEL  is  with  the 
Raytheon  Co.,  Sudbury,  Mass.  .  .  .  GARY 
R.  MASON  has  been  appointed  to  the 
School-Community  Council  in  Webster, 
Mass.  The  Council  will  advise  and  assist 
the  School  Committee  in  bringing  about 
a  quality  education  program  for  the  town. 
Gary  is  employed  by  Stevens  Linen  Asso- 
ciates in  a  production  management  ca- 
pacity .  .  .  SPAFFORD  A.  MARTINDALE, 
JR.,  works  for  Lyon  Bros.  Co.,  Inc.,  West 

Boylston,  Mass HERBERT  T.  NOCK  of 

Marblehead,  Mass.,  has  been  employed 
by  the  General  Electric  Medium  Steam 
Turbine  Department  in  Lynn  .  .  .  AJIT  S. 
PATEL  serves  as  a  mechanical  engineer  for 
Precision  Piping  Assoc,  Inc.,  Newton, 
Mass.  .  .  .  RICHARD  P.  SAN  ANTONIO, 
a  fellowship  student  at  MIT,  is  working  for 
his  master's  degree  in  electrical  engineering 
.  .  .  ROBERT  L  SIMONDS  writes  that  he 
has  accepted  a  job  offer  at  Jackson  and 
Moreland  International  Inc.,  Boston,  Mass., 
and  that  FRANK  D.  MANTER/67  is  also 
employed  by  the  same  company  .  .  .  NOR- 
MAN W.  SOUSA,  JR.,  is  with  the  Sousa 
Corp.,  West  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  DENNIS 
J.  STABA  works  for  Close,  Jenson  and 
Miller  of  Wethersfield,Conn. 


The 

Tech  Chair  .  . 

Perhaps  you  can't  endow  one  .  .  . 
But  you  certainly  can  own  one  . . . 

No.  341  214 
COLLEGE  SIDE  CHAIK 

Scat  to  top  of  back:  20" 
Price:  $29.00 


No.  183  214 
COLLEGE  BOSTON  KOCK.EU 

Scat  lo  top  of  hack:  27 '  ," 
Price:  $36.00 


No.  342  214 
COLLEGE  ARM  CHAIR 

Scat  to  top  of  back  :  -I " 
Price:  $43.00     (Black   \r.n>> 

No.  342  218 
Price:  $44.00     (Cherry    Vrms) 


Send  your  remittance  .m<l  make  checks  payable  t< 

\\  .P.I.  Bookstore 

Massachusetts  residents  add  3  ".  sales  tax. 

\ll  i  h.iir- -lii|>|i.-.l  E.o.B.,  Gardner,  Mais. 


THE  WPI  JOURN. 


eeclbacl 


To  the  Editor: 

Have  just  been  reading  the  fine  De- 
cember issue  of  the  Journal  with  its 
emphasis  on  athletics  at  WPI.  It 
brought  back  memories  of  other  days 
and  prompted  me  to  pull  out  my  old 
scrap  book  which  is  filled  with  me- 
mentoes of  the  191 1-1915  era.  There  in 
scrawled  longhand  was  the  text  of 
remarks  which  I  was  asked  to  make  at 
the  Freshman  banquet  of  the  Class  of 
1915.  This  affair,  which  was  held  in 
the  upstairs  dining  room  of  Putnam 
and  Thurston's  restaurant  on  Main 
Street,  was  undoubtedly  held  in  Janu- 
ary 1912,  sixty  years  ago. 

"I  also  want  to  say  just  a  few 
words  about  the  future  of  athletics  in 
general  at  Tech  and  the  relation  of  this 
class  to  them.  We  are  entering  Tech  at 
a  unique  time  in  the  history  of  her 
athletics.  It  seems  to  me  that  they  are 
about  to  undergo  a  radical  change.  In 
the  past  they  surely  have  not  been  of 
the  highest  order,  one  of  the  chief 
reasons  being  the  obvious  lack  of 
proper  equipment  such  as  a  suitable 
athletic  field  and  gymnasium,  but  if 
the  present  campaign  to  procure  such 
advantages  is  successful,  as  it  now 
promises  to  be,  I  can  see  no  reason 
why  Tech's  athletics  should  not  com- 
pare with  the  best." 

The  speech,  such  as  it  was,  was 
prophetic  if  nothing,  for,  less  than 
four  years  later  during  Commence- 
ment week  in  1915,  Alumni  Field  (our 
first  athletic  field)  was  formally  dedi- 
cated and  the  cornerstone  of  the  new 
gymnasium  was  laid. 

I  am  sending  the  above  to  you 
thinking  that  it  might  be  of  interest. 


To  the  Editor: 

This  has  been  my  first  opportunity  to 
thank  you  for  the  very  excellent  de- 
partmental presentation  in  the  latest 
Alumni  Journal.  We  appreciate  greatly 
this  presentation  which  I  thought  was 
both  accurate  and  complimentary. 
You  and  your  staff  are  to  be  congratu- 
lated. 

Sincerely, 

Robert  W.  Pritchard 
Head,    Department   of  Physical   Edu- 
cation and  Athletics 


Maurice  G.  Steele,  '15 
Rome,  New  York 


Norton  Aeration  Systems 
breathe  new  life  into  activate! 

sludge  plants* 


Norton  combines  its  ALUNDUM 
porous  ceramic  domes,  PVC  piping 
and  fixtures  into  a  complete  system  to 
assure  an  even  diffusion  pattern  of 
controlled  fine  bubbles  throughout 
the  aeration  tanks  and  distribution 
channels. 

The  outstanding  oxygen  transfer 
efficiency  of  the  Norton-ASL  Aeration 
System  makes  possible  the  production 
of  nitrified  effluents  with  a  constancy 
and  consistency  unmatched  by  any 
other  process.  Space  requirements 
may  be  drastically  cut  by  using  deep 
tank  designs  and  our  simpler  construc- 
tion reduces  installation  costs.  . 

Variable  in-line  spacing  of  domes 
and  multiline  capability  provides 


ridge  and  furrow  type  flow  evenly  dis- 
tributing fine  bubbles  to  all  parts  of 
the  aeration  tank.  Norton  Aeration 
Systems  will  transfer  in  excess  of  8  lbs. 
of  oxygen  per  horsepower  hour. 


Result:  ideal  aerobic  conditions 
throughout  the  entire  tank  and  consist- 
ent top-to-bottom  dissolved  oxygen 
levels. 

Norton  ALUNDUM  domes,  tubes 
and  plates  are  made  from  fused  alu- 
minum oxide  grain  —  one  of  a  family 
of  ceramics  created  by  Norton 
Ceramic  Technology.  A  large  number 
of  municipalities  are  already  enjoying 
the  many  benefits  of  these  Norton 
Aeration  Systems.  We  can  also  sub- 
stantially improve  the  performance 
and  operating  economy  of  your  pres- 
ent or  future  system.  Write  for  the 
complete  story.  Norton  Company, 
Industrial  Ceramics  Division,  New 
Bond  Street,  Worcester,  Mass.  01606. 


NORTON 


INDUSTRIAL  CERAMICS 


Ability  and  performance  beyond  the 
ordinary.  Pacesetter.  Innovator.  Natural 
leader.  If  the  name  of  the  game  is  forging, 
the  superstar  is  Wyman-Gordon  G3 


Wyman-Gordon  Company,  Worcester.  Mass. 


Chicago,  Detroit.  Dayton.  Los  Angeles.  Fort  Worth.  Seattle.  Bombay.  Geneva 


'/■ 

c 
I; 

fa 

0 


kg 

:■: 

It 

-■' 

v. 


■mm  I 

journal 


Vol.  76,  no.  1 
August,  1972 


Editor 

H.  Russell  Kay 

Alumni  Information  Editor 

Ruth  A.  Trask 

Publications  Committee 

Walter  B.  Dennen,  Jr.,  '51,  Chairman 

Donald  F.  Berth,  '57 

Robert  C.  Gosling,  '68 

Enfried  T.  Larson,  '22 

Rev.  Edward  I.  Swanson,  '45 

Richard  DeChard,  '56 

Pubiished  for  the  Alumni  Association 
by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 

Copyright©  1972  by 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 
All  rights  reserved. 


WPI  Alumni  Association  Officers 

President: 

I.  J.  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44 

Vice  Presidents: 

B.  E.  Hosmer,  '61 
W.J.  Bank, '46 

Secretary-  Treasurer: 
S.J.  Hebert, '66 

Past  President: 
R.  E.  Higgs, '40 

Executive  Committee, 
i  Members-at-Large: 

C.  C.    Bonin,  '38;   F. 


S.    Harvey,  '37; 
C.  W.  Backstrom,  '30;  L.  Polizzotto,  '70 

Fund  Board: 

G.  F.  Crowther,  '37;  A.  Kalenian,  '33; 
R.  F.  Burke,  Jr.,  '38;  L.  A.  Penoncello, 
'66;  W.  J.  Charow,  '49;  H.I.  Nelson,  '54 


The  WPI  Journal  is  published  five  times  a  year 
in  October,  December,  February,  April,  August. 
Entered  as  second  class  matter  July  26,  1918, 
at  the  Post  Office,  Worcester,  Massachusetts, 
under  the  act  of  March  3,  1879.  Subscription 
two  dollars  per  year.  Postmaster:  Please  send 
form  3579  to  Alumni  Association,  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester,  Mass.  01609. 


IN  THIS  ISSUE 

How  Dare  You  Change  My  Magazine! page  two 

Walter  B.  Dennen,  Jr.,  '51,  describes  what's  happening  with  the  Journal  and  the  Alumni 
Publications  Committee. 


GENETIC  ENGINEERING 

Man's  Responsibility  to  His  Future page  four 

Dr.  Hudson  Hoagland  introduces  the  subject  of  this  special  issue. 

The  Good  That  Can  Come page  five 

Dr.  James  F.  Danielli  offers  insights  into  some  of  the  benefits  we  may  expect  to  see  from 
genetic  engineering. 

By  Whom  and  For  What? page  eight 

Constitutional  lawyer  Paul  A.  Freund  raises  some  of  the  disturbing  legal  and  social 
questions  which  must  be  dealt  with. 

The  Morality  of  Manipulation page  eleven 

Princeton  theologian  Paul  Ramsey  explores  the  moral  and  ethical  dilemmas  of  "tinkering 
with  our  heredity." 

Probabilities  and  Practicalities .  page  fourteen 

Scientist  and  businessman  Dr.  Carl  Djerassi  comes  to  grips  with  the  hard-nosed  realities — 
not  what  might  be  but  what  probably  will  be,  at  least  in  the  foreseeable  future. 

Interplay Pa9e  eighteen 

Questions  and  panel  discussion. 

Reunion  Roundup page  twenty-two 

A  report  on  this  year's  big  bash. 

Hat  in  the  Ring Page  thirty-one 

Alumni  Trustees page  thirty-three 

Success  Is  Spelled  "1-2-3" page  thirty-six 

DEPARTMENTS 

Feedback      * 

Completed  Careers 2? 

Your  Class  and  Others 30 

On  the  cover:  Electron  micrograph  of  double  viral  DNA  rings  synthesized  in  the  test 
tube  at  Stanford  University  School  of  Medicine.  Actual  length  across  is  2  microns  (one 
micron  equalling  one-millionth  of  a  meter).  Photo  by  California  Institute  of  Technology. 

EDITOR'S  NOTE 

As  we  go  to  press,  we  have  just  learned  that  Science  and  Public 
Affairs  (formerly  known  as  The  Bulletin  of  the  Atomic  Scientists) 
is  going  to  reprint  the  genetic  engineering  material  from  this 
issue  of  the  WPI  Journal  in  their  November  issue. 


IE  WPI  JOURNAL 


How  Dare  You  Change  My  Magazine! 


F 


by  Walter  B.  Dennen,  Jr.,  '51 

Chairman,  Alumni  Publications  Committee 


JLHE  JOURNAL  these  days  just  isn't  the  magazine  it 
used  to  be.  The  articles  are  different  from  those  that  have 
traditionally  appeared  in  the  Journal.  Even  the  look  is 
different. 

"Why?"  you  may  be  asking.  Why  the  changes,  and 
where  is  the  Journal  headed? 

For  more  than  a  year  the  Alumni  Publications  Commit- 
tee has  been  working  with  the  editor,  and  under  the 
guidance  of  the  Alumni  Council,  to  evaluate  the  Journal. 
We  have  asked  ourselves  questions:  What  have  been  the 
goals  and  purpose  of  the  Journal  in  the  past,  and  how  well 
were  they  achieved?  What  should  those  goals  and  purposes 
be  for  the  present  and  future?  How  can  the  Journal,  or  any 
other  kind  of  publication,  best  serve  the  alumni,  the 
Alumni  Association,  and  WPI  itself? 

The  questions  are  difficult  and  sensitive.  We  are  still 
searching  for  some  of  the  answers.  But  the  broad  outlines 
of  the  Journal's  aims  and  future  direction  have  been 
worked  out  and  given  the  endorsement  of  the  Alumni 
Council  and  its  Executive  Committee. 


Alumni  Interest  and  Continuing  Education 

As  we  see  it,  the  WPI  Journal,  like  any  alumni  publication, 
has  two  reasons  for  being.  First,  it  is  the  primary  link 
between  WPI  and  most  of  the  alumni.  The  Journal, 
therefore,  is  an  essential  element  in  maintaining  alumni 
interest  and  involvement  in  the  Institute. 

Second,  the  Journal  is  a  prime  —  and  perhaps  some- 
times overlooked  —  vehicle  for  the  continuing  education  of 
alumni.  WPI  exists  to  educate  people  to  deal  with  science 
and  technology.  That  education  need  not,  and  should  not, 
stop  with  the  granting  of  a  degree  —  especially  in  today's 
dynamic  environment.  In  achieving  the  goal  of  contributing 
to  alumni's  continuing  education,  the  Journal  automatically 
contributes  to  the  first  goal,  that  is,  stimulation  of  alumni 
concern  for  and  identification  with  WPI. 

The  Alumni  Publications  Committee  has  adopted  a 
"theme  issue"  concept  as  a  means  of  strengthening  the 
Journal's  role  as  an  educational  tool.  In  general,  each  issue 
will  deal  with  a  single  subject,  usually  in  several  articles. 
Subjects  are  chosen  with  two  criteria  in  mind:  they  should 
be  interesting  and  meaningful  to  alumni,  and  they  should 
relate  directly  to  WPI. 


We  hope  to  deal  with  significant  issues  of  the  day, 
showing  how  the  issues  relate  to  WPI  people.  The  Journal 
will  depict,  moreover,  how  WPI  is  responding  to  current 
problems  in  terms  of  institutional  structure,  educational 
methods  and  concepts,  research  projects,  the  WPI  physical 
plant,  or  whatever  approach  may  be  most  appropriate  to 
the  subject. 

Of  course,  many  fine  articles  do  not  fit  the  theme 
concept,  yet  warrant  presentation.  Therefore,  we  willi 
periodically  break  the  theme  mold  with  a  catch-all  (or 
perhaps  we  mean  "catch-up")  issue  containing  a  potpourri 
of  articles  and  features. 

We  haven't  said  anything  about  specific  alumni  informa- 
tion, the  class  notes  section.  And  the  reason  is  that  we 
don't  plan  any  major  changes  in  the  section,  except  to 
spotlight  some  of  the  more  interesting  stories  about 
individual  alumni. 

Increased  Distribution 

Beginning  with  the  October  issue,  the  Journal  will  be 
distributed  on  campus  during  the  academic  year  to  all  WPI 
students.  This  move  is  long  overdue  and  should  afford 
students  a  better  understanding  of  what  the  Alumni 
Association  is  and  does.  In  other  words,  we  begin  to 
develop  alumni  identification  at  the  earliest  possible  stage. 

Genetic  Engineering 

This  issue  of  the  Journal  is  very  special  in  many  ways.  It  has 
a  theme  that  dramatically  demonstrates  how  the  Journal 
can  contribute  to  our  continuing  education.  The  topic, 
genetic  engineering,  may  disturb  us.  But  we  cannot  ignore  it 
merely  because  of  its  implications.  And  the  information 
presented  on  the  accompanying  pages  deals  with  implica- 
tions and  consequences,  not  with  the  mechanics  of  the 
subject. 

The  articles  represent  a  somewhat  condensed  publica- 
tion of  a  symposium  held  on  campus  on  May  2,  1972.  The 
symposium  was  in  conjunction  with  the  traditional  Honors 
Day  Convocation,  with  honors  extended  to  include  the  lour 
participants,  who  were  given  honorary  Doctor  of  Humane 
Science  degrees.  (One  result  of  this  changed  format  was  i 
that  honorary  degrees  were  not  awarded  at  Commencement 
this  year.  However.  Dr.  James  Danielli,  a  seminar  partici- 
pant, returned  to  deliver  the  Commencement  address.) 


THE  WPI  JOURNAU 


Simply  stated,  genetic  engineering  is  man's  ability  to 
liter  hereditary  processes  by  chemical  and  surgical  means. 
t  is  here  now,  in  laboratories  throughout  the  world,  in 
;xperimentation  with  microscopic  animals  and,  to  a  certain 
:xtent,  with  human  egg  cells.  The  inherent  moral  and  legal 
juestions  are  profound,  and  questions  cannot  be  over- 
ooked.  In  the  Journal's  April  issue,  Ben  Bova  said:  "The 
jower  is  there,  when  we  can  begin  to  tinker  with  our  own 
leredity,  to  produce  the  kinds  of  people  we  want  in  the 
:olors,  sizes,  and  shapes  that  we  want.  This  may  be  more 
jower  than  any  political  system  that  we  can  think  of  today 
las  a  right  to  own.  Many  of  the  world's  leading  biochemists 
ind  geneticists  are  already  asking  themselves,  their  col- 
eagues,  and  the  public:  What  should  we  do?  Should  we 
;ontinue  these  lines  of  investigation?  How  do  we  handle 
:his  power  once  we  have  it?  A  very  basic  question 
irises.  .  .  .  how  are  we  going  to  deal  with  the  science  and 
:echnology  that  we  have  developed?" 

In  a  recent  issue  of  its  journal,  which  appeared  just 
rtrior  to  the  May  symposium,  the  American  Medical 
\ssociation  stated  that  the  ethical  implications  of  experi- 
ments that  would  seek  to  implant  a  "test-tube  baby"  into 
:he  womb  of  a  woman,  and  other  experiments  in  genetic 
mgineering,  should  be  thoroughly  explored  before  such 
work  is  applied  to  man. 


It  is  interesting  to  note  that  the  April  issue  of  the 
Journal,  built  on  a  theme  of  the  1972  Intersession  program 
on  campus,  offered  a  natural  introduction  to  this  theme 
issue.  Such  was  not  our  intent.  But  perhaps  it  clearly  shows 
the  interrelations  that  exist  among  diverse  topics. 

WPI  has  recognized  and  anticipated  evolutionary 
changes.  The  Institute  is  becoming  increasingly  involved 
with  the  life  sciences.  Curricula  are  relating  technical 
studies  to  social  needs  and  problems.  At  the  same  time  a 
surprising  number  of  students  are  using  the  WPI  bachelor's 
degree  as  a  springboard  to  medical  school. 

It  is  therefore  fining  that  WPI  should  be  among  the  first 
educational  institutions  to  publicly  address  the  questions 
and  problems  inherent  in  genetic  engineering. 

Readership  Survey 

We  anticipate  that  alumni  will  benefit  from  the  "new  look" 
in  the  Journal.  But  the  Publications  Committee  is  a 
relatively  small  group  of  people.  And  we  want  to  be  certain. 
That  is  why  we  will  soon  be  conducting  a  readership  survey. 
We  hope  that  most  alumni  will  respond  and  make  their 
wishes  and  opinions  known  to  us.  We  will  publish  our 
findings  in  a  future  issue  of  the  Journal  and  will  be  guided 
in  our  decisions  by  alumni  sentiment.  H 


/-feedback 


To  the  Editor: 

The  April  issue  is  outstanding.  Inter- 
session '72  is  just  fantastic! 

From  a  layman's  standpoint  I'm 
involved  in  our  local  education  activi- 
ties. (I'm  president  of  the  Hatboro- 
Horsham  (Pa.)  Senior  High  School 
Home  and  School  Council.)  As  a 
parent  I  have  four  boys  in  school.  One 
of  my  boys  will  enter  our  new  open 
space  design  middle  school.  I  met  the 
;new  principal  last  week  (he's  from 
Fitchburg  High  School  and  Fitchburg 
State  College).  Some  of  the  ideas  of 
Intersession  '72  would  fit  into  his 
planned  program.  I'd  like  to  get  a  copy 
Df  the  April  Journal  for  him.  Would 
you  kindly  forward  it  to  me? 

I  enjoyed  "The  Next  100  Years" 
coo.  Keep  up  the  good  work! 

R.  W.  Nikander,  '48 


To  the  Editor: 

The  February  issue  of  the  Journal 
offered  interesting  and  valuable  infor- 
mation on  environmental  problems. 

But,  perhaps  the  most  significant 
aspect  is  that  it  was  printed  on  100% 
recycled  paper.  As  greater  amounts  of 
recycled  paper  are  used,  it  will  be 
economically  competitive  with  virgin 
fibers,  and  even  hopefully,  less  ex- 
pensive. 

David  J.  Gumbley,  '68 

Editor's  Note: 

Mr.  Gumbley  appears  to  have  been 
misled  by  the  note  which  appeared  on 
page  1  of  the  February  issue.  Only  the 
cover  was  printed  on  recycled  paper; 
the  remainder  of  the  issue  was  on  a 
nonrecycled  paper. 


To  the  Editor: 

Congratulations  on  your  last  two  Jour- 
nals. In  the  last  one  the  paper  was 
excellent  and  so  was  the  subject  mat- 
ter. Also  I  found  that  the  typography 
could  not  be  improved  upon.  You 
should  be  proud  of  this  issue. 

I  was  also  deeply  concerned  with 
the  Tech  News.  It  was  the  most 
horrible  example  of  subject  matter, 
and  no  effort  was  made  to  have  the 
printing  anywhere  near  correct.  Some- 
one ought  to  straighten  out  the  mat- 
ter. The  mourning  of  a  drug  addict's 
death  was  a  far  cry  from  news  of 
student  activities. 

But  this  latest  Journal  really  shows 
that  Tech  is  trying  to  bring  forth 
students  of  real  responsibility. 

Dana  S.  Greenlaw,  '24 
St.  Petersburg,  Florida 


WPI  JOURNAL 


Genetic  Engineering 

Man?s  Responsibility 
to  His  Future 

by  Hudson  Hoagland 


We 


e  humans  share  the  basic  mechanisms  of  biological 
evolution  with  all  living  things.  Evolution  by  natural 
selection  is  no  longer  a  theory  but  a  fact.  It  involves  chance 
changes  from  time  to  time  in  the  structure  of  the  molecules 
comprising  the  genetic  material.  This  material  is  made  up  of 
nucleic  acids  (DNA  and  RNA),  which  are  long  molecular 
strands  in  the  form  of  double  helixes  which  carry  informa- 
tion in  their  organized  structure  for  the  genetic  charac- 
teristics of  all  living  things  —  animals,  plants  and  even 
viruses.  DNA  located  in  the  nucleus  of  the  cell  acts  as  a 
template  to  produce  RNA  that  then  diffuses  from  the 
nucleus  into  the  cytoplasm  and  there  acts  itself  as  a 
template  to  link  together  some  20  amino  acids  to  form' the 
vast  variety  of  proteins  which  include,  of  course,  the 
thousands  of  enzymes  that  regulate  the  chemistry  of  living 
cells.  Changes  that  occur  from  time  to  time  in  DNA 
structures  are  called  mutations  and  may  result  from  effects 
of  high  energy  radiation,  including  cosmic  ray  hits  on  the 
molecules,  or  action  of  certain  ingested  chemicals,  or 
simply  copying  errors  when  cell  division  takes  place.  Such 
changes  in  the  DNA  germ  plasm  are  propagated  to  the  next 
generation  after  the  manner  of  a  scratch  in  a  master 
recording  of  a  Beethoven  symphony  that  serves  as  a 
template  for  reproducing  more  records.  The  flaw  will,  of 
course,  also  be  reproduced  on  the  copies. 

Over    99    per    cent    of    mutations    are    lethal    and    so 

DR.  HUDSON  HOAGLAND  and  a  colleague  at  Clark 
University  founded  the  Worcester  Foundation  for  Experi- 
mental Biology  in  1944,  in  a  barn  near  the  campus.  The 
Foundation  has  grown  to  a  world-famous  research  institu- 
tion employing  over  300  scientists  and  technicians,  study- 
ing cancer,  endocrinology,  neurobehavior,  and  reproductive 
biology.  Among  the  results  of  the  Foundation's  work  is  the 
birth-control  pill. 

Dr.  Hoagland  served  as  president  of  the  American 
Academy  of  Arts  and  Sciences  from  1961  to  1964  and  as 
president  of  the  Society  of  Biological  Psychiatry  in 
1967-68.  The  American  Humanist  Association  named  him 
Humanist  of  the  Year  in  1965,  and  WP1  awarded  him  an 
honorary  degree  the  following  year. 

With  an  internationally  known  broad  range  of  interest 
and  expertise  in  scientific  and  social  areas.  Hudson 
Hoagland  is  uniquely  qualified  in  moderate  this  sym- 
posium. 


self-eliminating  or  harmful  to  the  developing  organism. 
Only  a  tiny  fraction  of  1  per  cent  may  give  the  developing 
organism  a  survival  advantage  by  natural  selection  over  its 
competitors.  Biological  evolution  of  a  species  is  thus  a  very 
slow  and  wasteful  process,  usually  measured  in  millions  of 
years,  with  thousands  of  new  forms  perishing  for  each  one 
that  survives.  We  people  are  a  distillate  of  3  billion  years  of 
this  process  of  evolution. 

In  the  past  man  has  not  tampered  with  his  own 
biological  evolution  —  the  only  exception  I  know  of  is  his 
almost  universal  taboo  against  incest.  But  by  substituting 
artificial  selection  in  breeding  for  the  very  slow  processes  of 
natural  selection,  he  has  produced  a  vast  number  of 
domestic  plants  and  animals  with,  for  him,  desired  qualities. 
His  reluctance  to  practice  eugenics  on  himself  is  inherent  in 
much  of  his  ethical  and  religious  beliefs,  but  it  is  also  due  to 
ignorance  as  to  how  one  could  selectively  breed  for 
desirable  human  characteristics  without  at  the  same  time! 
producing  deleterious  characteristics. 

One  of  the  most  magnificent  advancements  of  science 
of  all  time  has  been  the  discovery  over  the  past  20  years  of 
the  chemical  nature  of  the  gene,  the  alphabet  and  sentence 
structure  of  DNA  and  RNA  as  a  remarkable  information 
system  —  a  blueprint  —  to  tell  the  developing  embryo  how 
to  make  a  copy  of  its  parents.  This  knowledge  has  also 
suggested  ways  to  modify  the  DNA  structure  to  eliminate 
errors  of  metabolism  that  cause  a  host  of  diseases. 
According  to  H.  V.  Aposhian  36  million  future  life  years] 
were  lost  in  1967  from  birth  defects  (primarily  genetic 
defects)  in  the  United  States.  This  is  4.5  times  as  many 
future  life  years  as  those  lost  annually  from  heart  disease,  8| 
times  as  many  as  those  from  cancer  and  10  times  as  many 
as  those  from  stroke.  The  new  knowledge  of  inheritance 
thus  has  great  potential  for  medicine  and  it  may  also  some 
day  offer  ways  to  improve  human  intelligence  and  other 
socially  desirable  qualities.  While  there  are  still  enormous 
gaps  in  our  knowledge  as  to  how  to  do  these  thing-*  fol 
man,  it  is  probable  that  in  a  few  decades  we  ■-hill  be  able  to 
do  some  of  them,  thus  producing  possible  great  benefits,  or 
perhaps  a  veritable  kettle  of  worms. 

A  unique  thing  about  man  is  that  he  is  the  only  animal 
that  has  now,  or  soon  will  have,  knowledge  to  direct  and 
control  his  own  luologic.il  evolution.  The  significance  ot 
this  in  terms  of  law.  medicine,  ethics,  and  human  values  is 
what  this  issue  of  the  Wl'l  Journal  is  about.  B 

THE  WPI  JOURNA 


Genetic  Engineering 


The  Good  That  Can  Come 


by  James  F.  Danielli 


ikjenetic  engineering  is  becoming  possible.  The  time  scale 

i   which   the   different   acts   in   this   scene   will  occur  is 

i  npredictable,  and  the  consequences  of  these  acts  are  also 

npredictable.    Therefore,    it's   entirely    desirable    that  we 

ihould    have    intensive    public    discussion    on    this    matter 

hefore    we   become    too    deeply    embedded    in    its    conse- 

:  uences.  Indeed,  one  may  say  that  of  all  the  topics  which 

■ught  to  be  in  the  public  rather  than  in  the  private  domain, 

nd  which  have  hitherto  lain  mainly  in  the  private  domain, 

i  enetic  engineering  is  perhaps  the  most  important  for  us  to 

onsider. 

In  general,  too  much  attention  has  been  paid  so  far  in 
'Ublic  debate  to  the  role  that  genetic  engineering  may  play 
|.i  changing  the  future  of  man  himself  and  too  little 
ttention  has  been  paid  to  the  other  uses  which  might  be 
lade  of  genetic  engineering.  I  shall  nevertheless  make  one 
omment  on  the  desirability  of  human  genetic  engineering. 
Evidence  appears  to  be  accumulating  that  our  civilization  is 
|.ow  operating  close  to  the  limit  of  human  capacity,  and  if 
we  expect  our  civilization  to  advance  beyond  the  point 
i/hich  it  has  already  reached,  then  it  may  be  necessary  to 
to  more  than  simply  abide  with  what  we  have  now. 
lowever,  although  we  have  these  grave  troubles  which  lead 
ne  to  say  that  we  are  perhaps  reaching  the  limit  of  our 
apacity,  I  think  we  should  not  blame  ourselves  too  much. 
These  troubles  arise  from  the  way  in  which  we  have 
Lvolved.  In  other  words,  we're  not  responsible  for  our 
■  volution,  although  we  are  to  some  extent  responsible  for 
/hat  we  do  now.  But  man  as  he  now  exists  did  not  evolve 
or  our  present  life. 

rhe  Evolution  Time  Scale 

The  time  scale  of  evolution,  for  a  significant  change  in  a 
jpecies  like  ourselves,  lies  somewhere  between  say  100,000 

\)R.  JAMES  F.  DANIELLI  and  his  team  of  researchers  at 
\he  State  University  of  New  York  at  Buffalo  have  success- 
wily  synthesized  living  cells  from  components.  While  he  has 
treat  confidence  in  man  s  ability  to  engineer  genes,  he 
hcognizes  the  scientist's  need  for  guidance  from  society  to 
yisure  that  the  application  of  such  knowledge  produces  an 
vnprovement  in  the  quality  of  life  for  all.  Dr.  Danielli  is  a 
\ative  of  England,  where  he  earned  three  doctorates  (in 
[hemistry,  physiology,  and  biochemistry)  from  the  univer- 
ities  of  London  and  Cambridge.  He  is  presently  director  of 
he  Center  for  Theoretical  Biology  at  SUNY/Buffalo. 

WPI  JOURNAL 


years  and  10,000,000  years.  Now,  man  moved  out  of  the 
food-gathering  stage  of  life  about  five  to  ten  thousand  years 
ago.  In  that  period  there  has  not  been  sufficient  time  for  a 
significant  alteration  in  the  genetic  structure  of  man. 
Therefore,  one  is  bound  to  conclude  that  the  genetic 
system,  and  the  structure  and  functions  we  operate  with 
now,  are  those  which  evolved  before  civilization  developed, 
before  men  began  to  live  together  in  communities  of  more 
than  a  few  dozen  people.  The  forces  of  natural  selection, 
which  have  determined  the  nature  of  the  human  genetic 
system  and  given  us  our  basic  aptitudes,  were  not  those  of 
civilized  life  but  those  operating  on  man  in  his  food- 
gathering  stage  of  existence.  And  it's  quite  an  extraordinary 
thing  that  we  do  as  well  as  we  do,  considering  the 
circumstances  in  which  we  arose.  If  we  are  to  move  into 
more  advanced  systems  of  civilization,  then  there  is 
probably  no  choice  but  to  study  the  techniques  of  genetic 
engineering  and  the  theory  of  genetic  engineering,  because 
natural  selection,  which  has  brought  us  to  where  we  are, 
operates  on  too  long  a  time  scale  to  be  effective  in  solving 
the  problems  with  which  we  are  now  confronted. 

I'd  like  to  give  some  sort  of  feeling  for  what  is  possible 
within  the  whole  domain  of  genetic  engineering.  What,  in 
other  words,  could  we  hope  to  achieve  by  artificial 
synthesis  of  life?  I  can  do  this  best  by  giving  a  few  figures. 
If  you  take  an  ordinary  protein  with  150  amino  acids  in  it, 
the  total  number  of  alternative  forms  of  that  protein  is 
1019S.  That  is  an  inconceivably  large  number.  In  fact,  it's  so 
inconceivably  large  that  one  can  only  begin  to  appreciate  it 
by  thinking  about  other  smaller  but  still  immensely  large 
numbers.  Now,  how  do  we  do  that?  Well,  suppose  we  take 


the  Big  Bang  Theory  of  the  origin  of  the  universe.  The 
latest  figure  that  I've  seen  for  the  duration  of  the  universe 
since  the  bang  is  1030  seconds.  Now  suppose  we  divide  10 
into  10195;  we  wind  up  near  enough  to  10150  different 
proteins  would  have  to  be  formed  every  second  in  order  to 
make  one  of  every  possible  protein  of  this  particular  chain 
length.  To  do  this,  an  inconceivably  large  number  of 
proteins  would  need  to  be  synthesized  every  second.  Could 
that  vast  number  have  been  synthesized?  Let's  say  they 
contain  just  one  electron  per  protein  (that's  of  course  a 
gross  over-simplification).  The  present  estimate  is  that  there 
are  about  1080  electrons  in  the  universe.  Now  if  we  divide 
1030  into  10150  (which  is  the  number  of  proteins  we  have  to 
make  every  second)  we  see  each  electron  would  have  to 
make  about  1070  proteins  per  second.  Chemistry  doesn't 
happen  at  that  rate. 

Now,  what  does  this  mean?  It  means  that  even  if  we 
consider  only  one  type  of  protein,  it  has  been  absolutely 
impossible  for  one  type  of  each  of  the  possibilities  to  have 
been  generated  through  the  whole  of  the  history  of  the 
universe.  And  this  in  turn  means  that  far  from  natural 
selection  having  been  able  to  operate  upon  all  the  possible 
variants  of  life  and  the  protein  structure  and  so  forth,  only 
the  most  minute  trace  of  the  possible  variants  could  ever 
have  existed.  This  situation  becomes  even  worse  when  we 
move  from  considering  proteins  to  considering  whole 
organisms.  Kim  Atwood  calculated  that  the  number  of 
variants  of  E.  Coli  bacteria  is  io2'000-000  If  we  make  the 
same  calculation  for  man,  it's  easier  to  express  it.  in  a 
different  way.  The  possible  variants  of  man  are  of  the  order 


10 


10 


n.  Now  that  is  an  even  more  inconceivably  large 
number  than  any  I've  mentioned  before.  In  other  words, 
the  prospects  opened  by  artificial  life  synthesis  and  genetic 
engineering  are  infinitely  far  beyond  the  range  of  human 
understanding  at  the  present  time  and  may  always  be 
beyond  the  range  of  human  understanding.  And  as  an 
experimental  science,  of  course,  genetic  engineering  cannot 
exist  in  its  own  right.  It  can  only  exist  as  a  feasible 
enterprise  in  the  light  of  an  appropriate  theoretical  science 
which  enables  us  to  select  from  this  infinite  range  of 
possibilities  those  which  might  be  most  worthwhile  investi- 
gating. And  we  must  bear  in  mind  that  even  if  the  universe 
goes  on  as  long  as  it  has  to  date  and  man  practices  genetic 
engineering  for  that  length  of  time,  we  could  make  only  a 
very  small  fraction  of  the  possible  organisms. 

Having  commented  on  the  scale  which  is  revealed  to  us, 
I  would  like  to  comment  on  some  issues  of  greater 
immediacy.  Too  much  attention  has  been  paid  to  genetic 
engineering  in  relation  to  man.  There  are  other  fields  in 
which,  for  the  time  being,  it  will  be  much  more  important 
—  for  example,  in  biological  industry.  Any  chemical  which 
can  be  made  by  a  biological  process  can  be  made  with  much 
less  pollution  and  very  often  with  much  less  cost  in  the  long 
run;  if  it's  a  complex  substance,  certainly  with  less  cost  and 
with  less  waste  than  by  present  chemical  engineering 
methods.  By  replacing  some  of  our  present  industries  with 
others  based  upon  organisms  developed  for  those  industries, 
we  can  reduce  the  scale  of  pollution  by  a  scale  of,  say,  10 
or  103  for  those  particular  processes.  Thereby  we  may  be 
able  to  continue  in  certain  ways  the  process  of  growl h  in 
our  industry.  This  will  certainly  not  be  feasible  if  we  arc 


I>bliged  to  rely  upon  the  type  of  industry  we  have  at  this 
ime. 

Another  field  where  we  might  well  benefit  is  genetic 
engineering  on  plants.  At  the  present  time,  plant  breeders 
an  only  produce  new  plants  by  acting  upon  those  genes 
vhich  are  already  contained  in  the  species.  Which  means 
hat  a  vast  number  of  genes  contained  in  other  species  are 
inaccessible.  But  as  far  as  genetic  engineering  is  concerned, 
•ny  gene  that  actually  exists  is  available  to  put  into  a  new 
jpecies  by  artificial  methods.  For  example,  it  is  probably 
)ossible  to  take  crops  like  rice  and  wheat  and  corn  and 
nsert  into  them  genes  for  proteins  which  will  raise  their 
jmtritional  value.  We  might  also  put  the  nitrogen-fixing 
nechanism  into  them  so  it  won't  be  necessary  to  synthesize 
litrogen  to  put  on  the  land  as  fertilizer.  One  can  foresee 
hat  there  are  possibilities  of  an  agricultural  revolution 
hrough  genetic  engineering. 

Then  there  are  possibilities  of  taking  cells  like  those 
rom  the  nervous  system  and  building  a  completely 
Jifferent  type  of  computing  and  calculating  mechanism, 
me  based  on  cellular  systems.  This  is  obviously  fairly  far  in 
he  future,  but  if  you  read  the  literature  dealing  with  nerve 
:ells,  you  will  see  that  the  first  steps  which  can  lead  to  this 
ort  of  thing  are  being  made. 


my  older  friends,  Sir  Joseph  Barcroft,  who  was  professor  of 
physiology  at  Oxford,  managed  this  very  neatly.  He  retired 
from  Oxford  and  established  the  Unit  for  Animal  Phys- 
iology at  Cambridge,  which  he  ran  very  successfully.  He 
went  home  to  lunch  with  his  wife  every  day.  One  day  he 
ran  to  catch  the  bus  to  go  home  for  his  lunch.  He  jumped 
for  his  bus,  he  sat  down,  he  died.  Now  that  is  a  very  good 
way  of  going  out  of  life.  And  if  we  could  all  do  that  at 
minimal  cost  it  would  save  much  money  and  much  grief. 

One  of  the  ways  of  finding  out  about  that  possibility  is 
by  taking  human  cells  apart  and  finding  out  what  makes 
them  grow  old.  And  it's  not  a  very  simple  process.  But  we 
do  know  that  human  cells,  many  of  them,  have  a  very 
limited  life-span.  They  can  go  on  for  so  many  divisions,  or 
so  much  length  of  time,  and  then  they  shut  down.  By  using 
the  techniques  of  genetic  engineering,  there  is  a  very 
reasonable  hope  that  we  can  find  out  what  the  basic  process 
is  that  determines  the  life-span  of  a  cell  and  of  an  organism 
and  thereby  see  whether  it's  possible  to  adjust  the  various 
sorts  of  clocking  devices  which  turn  on  in  our  tissues  at 
different  times  and  make  us  subject  to  the  diseases  of  old 
age.  ■ 


Aging 

I'll  conclude  by  remarking  about  a  study  I've  begun  to 
Knter  into  myself,  which  relates  to  the  problem  of  health 
fare.  If  one  looks  at  what's  going  on  in  the  world  of  health 
lare,  one  cannot  fail  to  be  impressed  by  the  rate  at  which 
Ihe  costs  are  rising  and  by  the  fact  that,  although  we  may 
|ind  cures  for  most  of  the  killing  diseases  of  the  present 
lime,  we  shall  not  much  extend  the  life-span  of  man. 
Indeed,  according  to  the  latest  calculation,  if  all  cases  of 
fancer  were  cured  instantaneously,  it  would  add  about  one 
|nd  one-half  years  to  the  expectation  of  life.  Now  we  could 
|o  much  better  by  stopping  smoking,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  or 
»y  taking  more  exercise.  If  all  the  main  killing  diseases  were 
polished  (presently  killing  diseases  that  is),  it  would  only 
idd  about  three  or  four  or  five  years  to  the  expectation  of 
fife  for  the  average  individual  in  western  Europe.  The 
Ijimple  reason  is  that  by  the  time  we  reach  the  age  of  70  or 
10  or  90,  we're  so  full  of  pathological  conditions  that  if  we 
lon't  die  of  one,  then  we  promptly  die  in  a  few  months  of 
(mother.  So,  you  see,  there's  absolutely  nothing  to  prevent 
he  cost  of  health  care  from  escalating  to  such  a  degree  that 
|t  is  bound  to  become  intolerable  in  due  course,  because 
Ivery  time  we  discover  how  to  cure  something,  we  also  add 
|o  the  cost. 

Now  there  appears  to  me  to  be  only  one  way  of 
Ipproaching  this  problem,  and  that  is  to  find  out  what  the 
Lging  process  is.  Of  this  we  are  at  present  totally  ignorant. 
|\.nd  then  take  a  look  at  whether  something  can  be  done 
Ibout  it.  For  example,  it  would  be  very  nice  if  instead  of 
having  tumors  and  rheumatism  and  respiratory  disorders 
'vhich  make  one's  health  decline  as  time  goes  on,  one  could 
Instead  have  these  disabilities  clocked  in  at  a  particular 
point,  say,  so  that  one  lived  at  a  good  level  of  health  and 
pen  there  was  a  precipitous  decline.  A  sharp  end  to  life 
Ivithout  previous  ill  health,  is  much  to  be  desired.  One  of 


«":  WPI  JOURNAL 


Genetic  Engineering 


and  For  What? 


by  Paul  A.  Freund 


W, 


hen  someone  says  that  we  must  improve  the  genetic 
inheritance  of  future  generations,  what  exactly  is  meant  by 
we}  Who  decides  which  questions,  by  what  standards, 
subject  to  what  checks?  Lawyers  are  accustomed  to 
differentiating  questions  of  fact  and  questions  of  law,  to 
define  the  roles  of  the  jury  and  the  judge;  here  it  is 
necessary  to  be  clear  about  the  difference  between  ques- 
tions of  science  and  technology  and  those  of  ethics  and 
policy. 

The  vision  of  a  greater  human  race,  the  vision  of 
positive  eugenics,  might  take  as  its  text,  ironically,  some 
lines  of  Walt  Whitman:  "The  pride  of  America  leaves  the 
wealth  and  finesse  of  the  cities  and  all  returns  of  commerce 
and  agriculture  and  show  of  exterior  victory  to  enjoy  the 
breed  of  full-sized  men,  or  one  full-sized  man  uncon- 
querable and  simple."  "Full-sized  men"  -  how  do  we 
recognize  them  (again  the  unanalyzed  "we"),  and  "simple" 
men  —  how  do  we  know  their  value  for  survival?  It  is  much 
easier  when  we  are  breeding  farm  animals,  for  milk  or  meat 
or  pulling  power.  During  World  War  II  there  was  a  shortage 
of  penicillin,  a  newly  discovered  drug,  in  the  North  African 
theatre  of  operations,  and  the  question  arose  whether 
priority  should  be  given  to  soldiers  suffering  from  battle 
wounds  or  to  those  afflicted  with  venereal  disease.  The 
commanding  officer,  against  the  advice  of  his  consultants, 
decided  to  give  priority  to  the  venereal  disease  sufferers, 
and  justified  his  decision  in  a  persuasive  way.  The  over- 
riding goal  of  his  command  was  to  put  the  maximum 
number  of  troops  on  the  front  line  in  the  shortest  possible 
time.  The  battle-wounded  would  require  a  longer  time  to 


One  of  the  nation's  most  distinguished  constitutional 
lawyers,  PAUL  A.  FREUND  began  his  legal  career  as  a  clerk 
for  the  late  Supreme  Court  Justice  Brandeis.  In  a  decade  of 
federal  service,  Freund  was  on  the  legal  staffs  of  the 
Treasury  and  Justice  departments.  Since  1940  he  has  held 
several  special  professorships  at  the  Harvard  Law  School.  A 
fellow  of  the  American  Academy  of  Arts  and  Sciences,  he 
succeeded  Hudson  Hoagland  as  its  president  from  1964  to 
1967.  He  has  written  several  books,  including  Ethical 
Aspects  of  Experimentation  with  Human  Subjects,  which 
probes  the  relationship  between  medical  researchers  and 
their  human  subjects. 


recuperate,  and  they  posed  no  danger  of  infection  to 
others;  therefore  their  claims  must  be  subordinated.  For 
better  or  worse,  the  goals  of  human  existence  are  rarely  so 
circumscribed  and  the  choices  so  readily  rationalized.  And 
the  further  we  peer  into  the  future  —  from  decades  to 
centuries  to  millennia  —  the  more  problematic  become  our 
priorities,  the  more  humble  our  pretensions  to  wisdom. 
Who  shall  choose,  even  for  the  sake  of  the  survival  of  the 
species,  between  artists  and  scientists,  poets  and  engineers, 
men  of  cognition  and  men  of  feeling? 

Perhaps  positive  eugenics  should  be  looked  at  in  a  closer 
perspective  of  time.  The  most  nearly  available  technique  for 
the  controlled  engineering  of  offspring  appears  to  be 
offered  by  the  prospect  of  cloning,  the  asexual  replication 
of  a  male  or  female  progenitor  with  no  interfusion  of 
chromosomes  from  a  second  parent.  Since  the  donor's 
chromosomes  are  embodied  in  all  his  or  her  somatic  cells, 
there  is  a  practically  limitless  supply,  subject  to  the 
availablilty  of  egg  cells  into  which  a  donor  cell  can  be 
nucleated  for  sustenance,  either  in  vivo  or  (conceivably)  in 
vitro.  Thus  we  may  be  facing  a  new  kind  of  nuclear 
explosion,  this  one  of  a  biological  nature.  Whether  the 
progeny  will  in  fact  turn  out  to  be  replicas  of  the  parent  is  a 
question  for  science;  possibly  mutations  will  occur,  possibly 
slight  changes  in  nourishment  and  environment  will  make  a 
substantial  difference,  and,  particularly  in  the  case  of  a 
genius  as  the  forebear,  the  line  between  creative  genius  and 
hapless  incompetence  may  prove  to  be  a  tenuous  one. 
Whether  the  aggregate  gene  pool  will  be  impoverished 
seriously  is  likewise  a  basic  scientific  question. 

But  the  ethical  issues  go  far  beyond  the  scientific  ones. 
What  the  xeroxing  of  human  beings  would  do  to  the 
fundamental  premises  of  personality,  moral  responsibility 
and  freedom  of  will,  must  give  us  great  pause.  The  mystery 
of  individual  personality,  resting  on  the  chance  combina- 
tion of  ancestral  traits,  is  at  the  basis  of  our  sense  of  mutual 
compassion  and  at  the  same  time,  of  accountability.  Within 
the  individual  the  mystery  is  a  wellspring  of  striving  and 
aspiration.  To  become  a  new  edition,  indeed  only  a  new 
imprint  of  a  parent,  could  undermine  these  expectations 
and  aspirations  and  produce  a  breed  of  passive  creatures 
waiting  for  the  familiar  ancestral  scenario  to  unfold,  a  breed 
for  whom  praise,  blame,  wonder,  and  fulfillment  would 
have  lost  their  meaning. 

THE  WPI  JOURN 


IK 

and 

inn 

OH 

deci 


ban 


case 
sym 
Nov 
and 
i 
so« 
tela 
k 
ion 
opt 

Ik 

bine 

be 
con 

ant 

Si 

the 

feci 
1 1 
tin 
Men 

i 
fom 

: 

Bit 

M 

En 


erhaps  this  is  the  destiny  of  the  race.  Perhaps  moral 
premises  will  themselves  have  to  alter  drastically  to  ac- 
commodate the  new  technologies.  If  so,  we  can  at  least  be 
:lear  about  it  and  speculate  on  what  the  new  morality  will 
>e  like.  Some  changes  have,  of  course,  already  occurred  in 
"esponse  to  scientific  advance.  Darwinism  presented  a  crisis 
"or  literal  religionists,  as  Copernicus  had  for  medieval 
heology.  But  these  shifts  left  it  possible  to  retain  the 
:ssential  moral  foundations  of  human  responses  to  human 
)eings;  agnostic  humanism  is  at  one  with  revealed  religion 
n  its  stress  on  humility  and  mystery,  and  the  intrinsic 
uiman  worth  that  emerges  from  these  avowals  of  self- 
imitation.  Indeed,  as  knowledge  has  grown  the  horizons  of 
he  still  unknown  have  kept  receding. 

The  issue  is  not  whether  the  search  for  knowledge 
hould  be  curtailed;  that  way  darkness  lies.  The  issue  is 
ather  whether  individual  human  beings  should  be  con- 
tracted with  a  set  of  preordained  traits,  and  indeed 
vhether  an  indefinite  number  of  such  identical  products 
;hould  be  engineered.  This  is  an  issue  that  transcends 
cientific  freedom,  the  freedom  to  inquire  and  to  know, 
11  ince  it  can  determine  for  future  generations  the  capacity 
J:  Ind  the  will  to  know,  no  less  than  the  possession  of  other 
raits  of  thought  and  feeling  that  we  regard  as  the  essence 
)f  the  human.  At  whatever  council  table  such  an  issue  is 
lecided,  there  should  be  spokesmen  for  the  future  genera- 
ions  in  whose  behalf  we  would  be  purporting  to  act, 
pokesmen  like  the  guardian  appointed  by  a  court  to 
epresent  unborn  heirs  or  infant  claimants. 

More  modest  proposals,  for  negative  eugenics,  do  not 
Jl  :scape  these  problems  of  standards  and  procedures  in 
9  lecision-making.  A  good  starting-point  for  discussion  is  the 
:ase  of  the  mongoloid  baby  which  was  the  subject  of  a 
ymposium  at  the  Kennedy  Foundation  in  Washington  last 
November.  At  a  leading  eastern  hospital  an  infant  was  born 
ind  diagnosed  as  suffering  from  Downs  syndrome  (mon- 
ploidism),  together  with  an  intestinal  obstruction  which 
tfould  be  fatal  in  a  matter  of  days  unless  corrected  by  a 
elatively  safe  surgical  operation.  The  facts  were  laid  before 
:he  parents,  who  decided,  in  the  interest  of  their  two 
I  lormal  children,  that  the  baby  should  not  have  the 
)peration  and  should  be  allowed  to  expire  in  the  hospital. 
The  pediatricians  took  the  position  that  this  decision  was 
jinding  on  them,  since  as  they  understood  the  law  it  would 
je  illegal  to  operate  on  a  child  without  the  parents' 
:onsent.  And  so  the  infant  was  permitted  to  linger, 
innourished,  until  death  came  within  some  two  weeks' 
:ime. 

The  first  point  of  interest  in  this  case  is  the  nature  of 
he  decision  to  be  made.  For  the  doctors  it  was  a  legal 
lecision,  controlled  by  the  parents'  wishes.  For  the  parents 
t  was  a  decision  conditioned  largely  on  the  assumption  that 
:he  care  of  the  child  would  devolve  upon  the  family. 
Neither  decision  can  be  said  to  have  been  made  with  full 
inderstanding.  It  is  true  that  one  parent  must  consent  to  a 
orm  of  surgery  for  a  child  where  there  is  a  genuine  choice 
jf  treatment;  but  when  the  choice  is  between  death  and  a 
ife-saving  intervention,  the  interests  of  the  child  cannot  be 
'inally  willed  away  by  the  parents;  there  are  a  number  of 
:ases  where  a  hospital,  seeking  instructions  from  a  court  in 
such  a  situation,  has  been  ordered  to  perform  an  operation 

$  i  WPI  JOURNAL 


over  parental  objection  based,  for  example,  on  religious 
scruples  against  blood  transfusion.  Those  cases,  to  be  sure, 
did  not  present  the  issue  of  a  mongoloid  child;  but  the 
doctors'  position  here  professed  to  be  based  on  a  general 
principle  of  law.  Likewise  the  parents'  decision  seems  to 
have  been  based  on  the  assumption  of  home  care,  without 
adequate  exploration  of  the  alternative  of  institutional  care 
(and  its  costs).  In  short,  there  was  lacking  any  forum  where 
all  the  interests  and  possibilities  could  be  explored.  When  it 
was  suggested  in  the  symposium  that  a  hearing  in  court 
should  have  been  arranged,  with  a  guardian  appointed  to 
represent  the  child,  objection  was  voiced  that  lawyers  and 
judges  are  not  experts  in  Downs  syndrome.  That,  of  course, 
misses  the  point,  namely  that  the  experts  should  have  their 
full  say  and  that  a  disinterested  arbiter,  taking  account  of 
the  experts'  testimony  and  also  of  moral  standards  of 
judgment,  should  make  the  ultimate  decision. 


What  are  these  moral  standards?  They  are  not  purely 
private;  they  can  be  educed  by  reasoning  from  analogy.  Is  it 
legitimate  to  put  another  human  being  to  death  in  order  to 
make  life  more  comfortable,  psychologically  and  economi- 
cally, for  the  survivors?  Is  the  case  like  that  of  the  care  of  a 
terminally  ill  patient,  when  extraordinary  supportive  meas- 
ures may  not  be  taken  and  the  patient  is  allowed  to  take 
leave  of  life  without  hindrance  —  are  the  prospects  of  the 
newly  born  and  the  aged  dying  patient  comparable  from 
the  standpoint  of  the  possibility  for  savoring  some,  if  not 
all,  of  the  wondrous  experiences  of  life  as  a  human  being? 
Is  there  a  point  at  which  this  prospect  in  the  newly-born  is 
so  attenuated  in  its  range  that  the  offspring  should  not  be 
regarded  as  a  person  (what  in  medieval  theology  was  termed 
a  monster,  not  "ensouled")?  If  the  condition  could  have 
been  discovered  prenatally,  and  if  abortion  would  then  have 
been  justified,  is  infanticide  similarly  justified?  If  not,  is 
there  an  obligation  on  the  part  of  the  state  to  assume  the 
care  of  the  child  when  the  parents  seek  to  renounce  it?  Is 
the  case  for  such  a  social  obligation  strengthened  where  the 
use  and  the  non-use  of  prenatal  diagnosis  tends  to  cor- 
respond to  the  social  class  of  the  mother? 


JLhe  question  about  social  class  is  a  reminder  that  lurking 
throughout  the  subject  is  the  problem  of  economic  and 
social  inequality  and  how  this  factor  would  relate  to  the 
various  measures  proposed.  In  legal  terms,  the  problem  is 
the  equal  protection  of  the  laws  —  the  principle  that 
classification  must  have  a  reasonable  basis,  and  that  where 
fundamental  human  values  are  involved  classification  must 
rest  on  a  compelling  public  need. 

The  problem  of  equal  protection  has  in  fact  arisen  in 
connection  with  negative  eugenics.  In  1927  the  Supreme 
Court  considered  a  case  under  a  Virginia  law  that  required 
the  sterilization  of  persons  in  state  institutions  who  were 
afflicted  with  a  hereditary  form  of  feeble-mindedness.  In  a 
summary  opinion,  Justice  Holmes  sustained  the  law,  closing 
his  opinion  with  the  quip  "Three  generations  of  imbeciles 
are  enough."  It  used  to  be  fashionable  to  quote  this  remark 
and  add:  "Mr.  Justice  Butler  dissented."  Today  we  are 
more  likely  to  be  embarrassed  by  Holmes'  jauntiness. 
Whether  such  sterilization  will  have  an  appreciable  effect  on 
the  prevalence  of  feeble-mindedness,  in  view  of  the  number 
of  apparently  normal  carriers,  is  a  question  for  the 
biostatisticians.  But  conceding  an  appreciable  effect,  the 
issue  of  equal  protection  remains  for  moralists  and  lawyers. 
Is  it  acceptable  to  enforce  sterilization  only  upon  those  in 
state-supported  institutions  —  manifestly  a  limitation  re- 
flecting differences  in  social  class?  In  1970  the  Supreme 
Court  came  close  to  reconsidering  the  1927  decision,  when 
it  granted  review  of  a  Nebraska  case  involving  a  law  that 
required  the  sterilization  of  mentally  deficient  persons  as  a 
condition  of  their  release  from  a  state  institution.  Fortu- 


nately or  unfortunately  the  law  was  repealed  before  the 
case  could  be  heard  by  the  Supreme  Court.  It  is  a  safe 
assumption  that  the  Court  would  have  had  more  trouble 
with  the  problem  than  did  Justice  Holmes  and  his  col- 
leagues (save  for  Justice  Butler). 

The  principle  of  equal  protection  embodies  an  impor- 
tant political  check,  apart  from  its  mandate  of  distributive 
justice  to  those  immediately  affected.  Politically,  a  control 
device  is  likely  to  receive  less  thorough  consideration  as  the 
class  of  those  affected  is  small  and  relatively  powerless.  A 
law  that  bears  equally  on  rich  and  poor,  scions  of  wealth 
and  wards  of  the  state,  will  receive  the  kind  of  scrutiny  in 
its  enactment  and  its  administration  that  the  gravity  of  the 
subject  requires. 

Similar  considerations  apply  when  we  consider  straight- 
forward proposals  to  encourage  population  control.  It  is 
attractive  to  search  for  the  middle  ground  of  incentives  and 
thereby  avoid  both  the  weakness  of  mere  persuasion  and 
the  heavy  force  of  legal  coercion.  In  a  market  economy, 
incentives  tend  naturally  to  be  economic  ones  —  subsidies 
for  family  limitation,  tax  burdens  for  family  expansiveness. 
Unless,  again,  the  result  is  to  be  fashioned  along  lines  of 
economic  class,  great  care  will  have  to  be  taken  to  see  that 
the  incentives  bear  equitably  upon  all  classes. 

And  so,  in  the  end,  whether  we  deal  with  positive 
eugenics  or  negative  eugenics  or  the  limitation  of  popu- 
lation growth,  what  is  possible  to  accomplish  is  more  than 
matched  in  difficulty  by  questions  of  what  it  is  right  to 
accomplish  and  what  are  the  right  means  to  employ.  As 
Einstein  said,  physics  is  so  much  easier  than  politics.  I 


10 


THE  WPI  JOURN 


Genetic  Engineering 


The  Morality  of  Manipulation 


by  R.  Paul  Ramsey 


JLhree  things  are  said  to  evidence  the  wisdom  and 
greatness  of  the  ancient  Chinese  people.  They  invented 
gunpowder  and  failed  to  invent  firearms.  They  invented 
printing  and  didn't  think  of  newspapers.  They  invented  the 
compass  and  failed  to  discover  America. 

A  similar  attitude,  I  want  to  say,  should  be  adopted 
toward  future  possible  applications  of  biomedical  knowl- 
edge. And  I  want  to  say  that  we  must  all  get  used  to  the 
idea  that  biomedical  technology  makes  possible  many 
things  we  should  never  do.  Yet  how  unlikely  it  is  that  we 
will  have  any  such  sense  of  limits  there  where  we  need  it 
most  —  namely,  where  technology  promises  mastery  over 
human  genesis,  and  the  alleged  perfectability  of  man's 
natural  endowments. 

I  might  begin  by  musing  over  what  happened  to  the 
title  of  this  symposium.  It  reads:  "Man's  Responsibility  to 
His  Future. "  Yet  in  a  letter  to  me  in  January,  President 
Hazzard  was  pondering  whether  seniors  and  others  today 
might  participate  more  knowledgeably  in  today's  discussion 
if  the  title  read  "Genetic  Engineering:  A  Humane  Tech- 
nology?" Or  perhaps,  he  said,  "The  Ethics  of  the  Unethi- 
cal. "  While  my  mention  of  this  may  violate  good  taste  and 
the  civil  tradition  within  a  learned  community,  I  want  only 
to  say  that  without  any  stolen  Pentagon  Papers  detailing 
the  decision-making  processes  around  here,  it  is  perfectly 
obvious  what  happened  in  the  evolution  of  that  title.  It  was 
honed  into  accord  with  the  most  basic,  silently  operating 
assumption  of  the  modern  age,  namely,  that  we  should  do 
whatever  we  can  do. 

Now,  genetic  engineering  is,  of  course,  a  metaphor. 
Only  by  adopting  a  limited  referent  for  that  expression  can 
we  make  clear  what  we  are  talking  about.  Following  the 

A  distinguished  theologian,  DR.  PAUL  RAMSEY'S  in- 
terests in  science  have  made  him  a  unique  intermediary 
between  the  two  fields.  A  prolific  author,  he  has  many 
times  expressed  his  concern  for  ethics  and  the  need  for 
theologians  and  others  to  review  their  traditional  views  and 
beliefs  in  the  light  of  new  scientific  knowledge. 

Paul  Ramsey  is  the  Harrington  Speare  Paine  Professor 
of  Religion  at  Princeton  University ,  a  trustee  of  the  Council 
of  Religion  in  International  Affairs,  former  president  of  the 
American  Theological  Society  and  the  American  Society  of 
Christian  Ethics.  For  two  years  he  served  as  the  Joseph  P. 
Kennedy  Jr.  Foundation  Visiting  Professor  in  Genetic 
Ethics. 


experimental  effort,  now  in  process,  to  change  the  genes  of 
two  small  German  girls  who  are  suffering  from  an  irrevers- 
ibly degenerative  disease  known  as  argininemia,  in  the 
future  it  may  be  possible  to  effect  gene-changes  in  many 
another  existing  individual  human  being  (whether  con- 
ceptus  or  infant):  to  alter  the  gene  deficiency  that  causes 
PKU,  or  cystic  fibrosis,  or  sickle-cell  anemia,  or  Tay-Sachs 
disease,  or  simply  to  tell  a  person's  pancreas  to  start  making 
insulin  (which  would  seem  to  be  a  better  remedy  for 
diabetes  than  injections).  All  such  gene  changes  will  be 
treatments.  We  should  call  those  procedures  as  a  class 
genetic  therapy,  in  order  to  locate  them  alongside  the 
non-genetic  treatments,  such  as  injections  for  diabetes,  now 
available  for  some  genetic  illnesses.  The  appropriate  meta- 
phor for  gene-change  treatment  when  and  as  it  becomes 
possible,  I  suggest,  should  be  genetic  surgery  (not  genetic 
engineering). 

For  that  makes  it  immediately  evident  that  treating  the 
genes  of  existing  patients,  born  or  unborn,  will  raise  no 
unusual  moral  questions,  no  issues  not  already  present  in 
investigational  therapeutic  trials  or  hazardous  or  other 
last-ditch  surgery  of  any  other  sort.  The  sole  exception  is 
the  complicating  factor,  which  I  will  not  go  into,  that 
gene-change  surgery  may  raise  serious  additional  moral 
questions  not  raised  in  other  sorts  of  surgery  because  of  its 
possibly  erratic  heritability. 

By  genetic  engineering,  however,  I  mean  gene  changes 
targeted  upon  the  sperm  and  ova  (or  their  precursor  cells) 
in  the  case  of  suspected  carrier  couples  with  the  objective 
of  preventing  the  transmission  of  life  suffering  from  serious 
genetic  defect.  Now  since  the  word  "gamete"  is  the  generic 
term  for  ova  and  sperm  and  their  precursor  cells,  we  might 
call  this  "genetic  engineering  by  gametic  manipulation." 
But  since  that's  a  large  mouthful,  let  us  simply  say  germinal 
engineering. 

This  is  a  stipulative  definition  of  our  topic.  Yet  I  hope 
it  is  a  persuasive  one  since  only  so  can  we  keep  clear  an 
important  distinction  between  genetic  engineering  of 
gametes  and  the  genetic  treatment  of  individual  patients, 
born  or  unborn,  and  since  only  in  this  way  can  we  make 
clear  the  serious  moral  issues  we  will  face  in  contemplating 
the  possibility  of  genetically  engineering  our  children  when 
they  are  nothing. 

For  it  should  be  immediately  evident  that,  as  a 
proposal,  genetic  engineering  (in  the  limited  meaning  I  give 
that  expression)  is  first  of  all  a  proposal  for  preventing  the 


-IE  WPI  JOURNAL 


11 


transmission  of  life  suffering  from  serious  genetic  defect. 
Such  a  new  procedure  would  have  to  be  compared  with 
available  alternatives  in  the  practice  of  preventive  genetic 
medicine,  would  have  to  be  compared  with  optional  uses  of 
our  rapidly  increasing  genetic  knowledge  in  responsible 
parenthood  or  responsible  non-parenthood.  Those  alterna- 
tives are,  to  mention  a  few,  genetically  conditioned 
prohibitive  marriage  licenses,  genetically  motivated  steriliza- 
tion, using  three  contraceptives  at  once,  abstinence,  or 
hieing  yourself  away  to  an  old-fashioned  Catholic  mon- 
astery or  nunnery  if  you  can  find  one. 


N 


I  ow  what  would  prompt  anyone  to  adopt  one  or 
another  of  those  seemingly  more  radical  preventions  as 
against  the  promise  of  germinal  engineering  that  we  can  go 
ahead  and  have  better  babies  anyway?  Or  what  would 
prompt  me  to  argue  that  genetic  engineering  cannot  be  the 
indicated,  or  even  a  choiceworthy,  application  of  our 
knowledge  of  genetics? 

Simply  because,  when  measured  by  the  principles  of 
sound  ethics  or  by  the  received  canons  of  medical  ethics, 
germinal  engineering  would  be  an  immoral  experiment  on 
the  child-to-be  —  immoral  because  not  consented  to  by  the 
primary  subject;  immoral  because,  when  he  is  not  yet,  the 
child  suffers  no  defect  which  could  justify  anyone  in 
consenting  on  his  behalf  medically,  or  justify  a  physician  in 
making  the  risk-filled  balancing  judgment  which  ordinarily 
warrants  investigational  trials  or  last-ditch  efforts  on  actual 
patients  (such  as  making  a  judgment  to  treat  an  uncon- 
scious patient  by  the  side  of  the  highway).  Rightly  ordered 
concern  for  the  child-to-be,  I  suggest,  would  compel  us  to 
conclude  that  we  ought  not  to  choose  for  another  the 
possible  procedurally  induced  hazards  he  alone  must  bear 
while  at  the  same  time  choosing  to  give  him  life  in  which  to 
bear  them,  in  which  to  suffer  our  chosen  experiments,  and 
to  be  the  vehicle  "progress"  whatever  the  consequences. 


When  pressed,  researchers  in  this  field  cannot  deny  that 
there  may  have  to  be  not  a  few  mishaps,  not  a  few 
monstrosities  discarded,  more  serious  defects  induced  in 
place  of  the  one  sought  to  be  prevented,  before  they  can 
even  get  to  know  how  to  perfect  the  technology  of 
germinal  engineering.  The  last  test  done  to  detect  induced 
damage  may  itself  be  injurious  or  may  have  to  be  omitted 
because  it  risks  greater  possible  damage;  the  same  for  the 
last  intrauterine  screening  or  scanning,  the  last  tap  of  the 
amniotic  fluid. 

The  rejoinder  that  will  be  forthcoming  is  as  follows. 
The  incidence  of  probable  risk  of  induced  damage  can  be 
kept  equal  to  or  below  the  incidence  of  probable  natural 
defect  calculated  from  the  genetic  histories  or  tests  of  the 
would-be  parents.  Moreover,  in  the  course  of  the  necessary 
close  attention  to  this  life,  the  necessary  testing  and 
scanning  of  its  development,  a  lot  of  other  unsuspected 
defects  or  accidental  damage  (as,  for  example,  from  its 
mother's  sleeping  pills)  may  be  discovered  along  the  way. 
These  too  can  be  dealt  with  or  their  subject  eliminated  by 
genetic  abortion.  That  is  the  rejoinder. 

But  the  life  we're  talking  about  would  not  have  been, 
and  therefore  would  not  have  been  subjected  to  those 
hazards,  had  he  not  first  been  produced  by  the  choice  of 
germinal  engineering  as  our  means  of  preventing  of  trans- 
mission of  genetic  defects.  You  cannot  justify  a  question- 
able procedure  by  appeals  that  in  thought  assume  it  has 
already  taken  place.  By  no  logic  can  this  new  sort  of  genesis 
be  made  to  bottom  on  itself,  or  be  justified  by  concomitant 
balancing  of  advantages  that  already  presuppose  the  experi- 
ment (which  was  in  question)  that  placed  the  child-to-be  at 
risk  of  both  induced  and  natural  damage.  The  sperm  and 
egg  are  in  need  of  no  physician;  nor  is  there  any  child  who 
has  consented  to  be  used  at  risk  to  cure  his  parents'  need 
for  a  child. 

It  is  therefore  one  thing  for  human  ingenuity  to  find  a 
way,  even  at  great  risk,  to  protect  an  unborn  child  or  an 
infant  from  more  serious  risk  by  developing  gene-change 
surgery  or  treatment.  But  it  is  quite  another  thing  for 
human  ingenuity  to  create,  at  the  risk  of  procedurally 
induced  damage,  a  human  life  thereafter  to  be  monitored 
for  those  same  damages. 

The  rejoinder  I  have  posed  to  my  argument,  however, 
breaks  down  and  analyzes  the  original  proposal  in  a  fine 
way.  It  shows  us  that  the  basic  idea  of  genetic  engineering 
or  germinal  manipulation  turns  human  procreation  into 
manufacture  of  our  progeny,  or  rather  replaces  the  trans- 
mission of  life  from  life  by  the  categories  of  manufactory 
(which  of  all  human  activities  is  most  concerned  with 
product  design,  and  with  doing  anything  at  all  to  improve 
the  product,  or  at  least  to  seem  to  do  so). 

Therefore,  the  proposal  to  engineer  sperm  and  ova  or 
their  precursor  cells  to  prevent  the  transmission  of  serious 
genetic  defects  contains,  in  its  rationale,  and  in  principle, 
the  use  of  biomedical  technology  to  eliminate  minor 
defects  as  well  as  serious  ones;  positive  eugenics  no  less  than 
negative;  the  introduction  of  i  gene  for  blond  hair,  if 
desired,  no  less  than  genes  for  greater  intelligence  or 
musical  ability;  the  delivery  to  people  of  a  child  with  the 
wanted  sex  no  less  than  producing  from  them  a  child 
without  cystic  fibrosis  1>v  manipulating  their  gametes;  the 
production  of  a  dwarf  if  I  need  one  in  the  circus  I  own  no 


12 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


less  than  a  potential  Horowitz  in  the  family;  the  mixture  of 
chromosomes  from  other  species  with  human  ova  and 
sperm  cultures  before  they  are  brought  together  in  the  final 
product  on  the  laboratory  assembly  line. 


Xhese  are  not  just  the  fancies  of  authors  of  articles  in 
popular  magazines  today  —  extrapolations  to  be  denied  by 
serious  scientists.  Joshua  Lederberg  of  Stanford  University 
begins  by  speculating  on  what  would  be  "the  effect  of 
dosage  of  the  human  twenty-first  chromosome  on  the 
development  of  the  brain  of  the  mouse  or  the  gorilla";  he 
ends  by  contemplating  "the  introduction  of  genetic  mate- 
rials from  other  spheres"  into  the  human.  And  Dr.  R.  G. 
Edwards  —  that  "brave"  pioneer  in  the  manipulation  of 
embryos  at  risk  —  asks  whether  medical  ethics,  having  been 
stretched  to  warrant  what  he  is  doing  in  in  vitro  fertiliza- 
tion and  embryo  transplantation,  can  be  further  stretched 
to  justify  "the  more  remote  techniques"  for  "modifying 
embryos,"  such  as  the  productions  of  "chimeras"  by  adding 
to  a  human  embryo  the  precursor  cells  for  organs  from 
other  blastocysts,  and  perhaps  from  other  species. 

The  speculation  that  most  appeals  to  me  is  the  idea  that 
I  might  have  been  created  with  a  contraption  for  photo- 
synthesis on  my  back,  so  that  like  a  plant  I  never  had  to 
eat.  .  .  but  still  had  a  penchant  for  philosophy.  In  any  case, 
the  radical  displacement  of  procreation  by  manufactory 
happens  long  before  we  begin  to  think  of  adding  to  future 
possible  human  beings  organs  and  capacities  not  their  own. 
That  begins  with  the  acceptance  of  genetic  engineering  as  a 
project.  With  that,  the  fundamental  moral  argument  for  all 
subsequent  steps  would  be  completed,  whether  we  take 
those  steps  or  not  or  whether  we  judge  them  to  be  worth 
taking  or  not. 

We  must  conclude  that  with  genetic  engineering  by 
gametic  manipulation  we  are  already  in  the  world  of  the 
Fertilizing  Stations  and  Decanting  Rooms  of  the  East 
London  Hatchery  in  Aldous  Huxley's  Brave  New  World. 
Huxley's  vision  of  a  pharmacological  and  genetic  Utopia,  we 
should  remember,  was  an  entirely  happy  society.  That 
means  that,  defendable  step  by  defendable  step,  we  shall  all 
be  happy  on  the  way  there.  Otherwise  Brave  New  World 
would  not  be  the  happy  place  its  prescient  author  predicted 
it  to  be. 

C.  S.  Lewis  is  another  author,  less  famous  perhaps,  who 
shares  with  Aldous  Huxley  the  prescience  of  having 
discerned,  under  the  very  shadow  of  Nazism,  that  genetics 
rather  than  the  misuse  of  political  power  constitutes  in  our 
era  the  greatest  danger  of  "the  abolition  of  man."  He  wrote 
in  the  book  of  that  title  in  1942  that  we  should  "not  do  to 
minerals  or  vegetables  what  modern  science  threatens  to  do 
to  man  himself."  Lewis  seemed  to  have  discerned  the  last 
citadel  from  which  technological  applications  are  apt  to  be 
excluded  or  where  we  will  discover  limits  we  will  agree  to 
defend  as  we  would  defend  our  lives  will  prove  to  be  the 
citadel  of  man's  nature  itself.  While  the  leopard,  the  great 
whale,  and  the  forests  are  to  be  protected  in  the  ecological 
ethic  of  our  day  by  restoring  to  mankind  a  proper  sense  of 
things,  man  as  a  natural  being  himself  may  be  given  no  such 
protection.  There  are  parameters  of  the  cheetah's  existence 
that  ought  not  to  be  violated.  .  .  but  scarcely  any  we  can 


think  of  of  man's.  Other  species  are  to  be  protected  in  their 
natural  habitat,  in  their  natural  functions,  and  in  their 
natural  courses  of  action,  but  man  is  doubtfully  to  be  left 
like  them. 

There  is  a  renewed  sense  of  the  sacredness  of  groves, 
and  of  the  fact  that  air  and  streams  should  not  be  violated. 
At  the  same  time  there  seems  to  be  no  abatement  of  the 
acceptance  of  the  view  that  human  parenthood  can  be 
taken  apart  and  reassembled  in  Oxford,  England;  New 
York;  or  Washington,  D.C.  And  of  course,  if  we  can 
disassemble  and  reassemble  human  procreation,  it  follows 
that  thereafter  human  nature  has  to  be  wrought  by 
Predestinators  in  the  Decanting  and  Conditioning  Rooms  of 
the  East  London  Hatchery  or  in  commercial  firms  bearing 
the  name  "Genetic  Laboratories,  Inc."  in  all  of  our 
metropolitan  centers.  Significantly,  that  latter  name  was 
the  one  chosen  for  a  commercial  sperm  bank  recently 
opened  in  New  York  City,  whose  ostensible  and  entirely 
praiseworthy  mission  is  simply  to  provide  men  with  a 
backstop  for  voluntary  vasectomy.  Yet  its  founders  called  it 
Genetic  Laboratories. 

The  reason  this  seems  to  me  our  future  is  that  the 
agents  of  these  vast  changes  are  the  authoritative  figures  in 
white  coats.  Defendable  step  by  defendable  step,  they  are 
deemed  by  the  public  to  be  not  so  much  researchers  or 
technicians  but  mainly  members  of  the  healing  profession, 
those  who  care  for  us,  who  tend  the  human  condition.  That 
being  so,  before  it  is  realized  that  the  objective  has  ceased 
to  be  respect  for  the  unborn  patient  and  tending  the  garden 
of  the  human  creation,  it  will  be  too  late  and  Huxley  will 
have  been  proved  true. 

Joshua  Lederberg,  speaking  of  how  public  policy  may 
be  determined  in  regard  to  clonal  reproduction,  ventured 
his  opinion  that  how  the  public  received  would  depend  on 
"the  accident  of  the  first  advertised  examples.  .  .  its  batting 
average,  or  public  esteem  of  the  clonant;  the  handsomeness 
of  the  parahuman  product.  .  .  " 

Perhaps  I  can  conclude  by  expressing  the  paradoxical 
and  macabre  "hope"  that  the  first  example  of  the  pro- 
duction of  a  child  by  the  genetic  engineering  of  its  parents' 
gametes  will  prove  to  be  a  bad  result  and  that  it  will  be  well 
advertised,  not  hidden  from  view.  /  do  not  myself  actually 
believe  that  the  good  to  come  from  vast  public  revulsion  in 
such  an  event  would  retroactively  justify  the  impairment  of 
that  single  child.  But  then,  for  the  same  reasons,  neither  do 
I  believe  that  germinal  manipulation  is  a  procedure  that  can 
possibly  be  morally  justified,  even  if  the  result  happened  to 
be  a  Mahalia  Jackson.  H 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


13 


Genetic  Engineering 


♦  "!♦.♦ 


*   .   « 


by  Carl  Djerassi 


X  have  an  advantage  over  the  other  speakers  in  this 
discussion  of  genetic  engineering.  I  weaf  two  hats  —  an 
academic  one  and  an  industrial  one  —  and  I  can  change 
these  hats  with  considerable  rapidity.  I  realize  that  this  is 
sometimes  disconcerting  and  unfair  in  discussions  or  argu- 
ments because  at  times  a  question  will  be  asked  of  me  from 
an  academic  viewpoint  and  I  will  reply  to  it  with  an 
industrial  slant,  or  vice  versa. 

In  my  brief  presentation  I  would  like  to  give  you  a 
fourth  view  of  the  question  of  genetic  engineering  and,  in 
particular,  the  possible  involvement  in  this  area  by  the 
scientific  industrial  community.  In  order  to  do  so,  we  first 
need  to  define  genetic  engineering,  at  least  from  the 
industrial  viewpoint.  One  convenient  way  of  dividing  the 
subject  is  to  refer  to  it  as  constructive  genetic  engineering, 
meaning  the  improvement  of  progeny,  and  preventive 
genetic  engineering,  which  would  concentrate  primarily  on 
avoiding  the  birth  of  undesirable  progeny. 

Professionally  I  am  not  a  geneticist,  but  I  have  spent  a 
great  deal  of  time,  both  in  my  own  research  work  and  in 
terms  of  policy  decisions,  on  a  subject  that  is  fairly  close  to 
today's  topic,  namely  the  question  of  birth  control.  The 
moral,  technical,  and  policy  questions  are  rather  similar  to 
those  posed  by  genetic  engineering,  and  I  would  like  to 
point  out  some  of  these  similarities. 


Abortion  and  Genetic  Engineering 

Preventive  genetic  engineering  leads  directly  to  the  question 


DR.  CARL  DJERASSI  reflects  the  viewpoint  of  social 
impact  of  the  advances  in  medical  science.  His  entire  career 
has  involved  research  since  he  became  a  research  chemist 
for  Ciba  Pharmaceutical  Products  in  1942.  In  1949,  he 
joined  Syntex  Corp.  as  associate  director  of  research  and  in 
1968  he  was  elected  its  president.  Since  1952,  he  has  served 
concurrently  as  a  professor  of  chemistry,  first  at  Wayne 
State  University  and  since  1959  at  Stanford  University.  Dr. 
Djerassi's  specialty  field  is  steroid  chemistry  which  is 
intimately  involved  in  the  study  of  human  biological 
processes.  He  has  published  a  great  number  of  technical 
papers  and  several  books.  He  serves  on  the  editorial  boards 
of  five  scientific  journals. 


of  abortion,  and  this  is  an  area  of  research  in  which  a  great 
deal  of  work  is  now  going  on  in  the  pharmaceutical 
industry.  I  myself  happen  to  be  a  strong  believer  in  the 
importance  of  such  research.  I  am  firmly  convinced  of  the 
great  importance  of  abortion,  and  I  consider  it  a  human 
right.  I  also  recognize  that  this  is  a  very  controversial  topic. 
Industry  is  involved  in  this  field  because  of  research  on 
abortifacient  agents  —  in  other  words,  chemicals  that  will 
produce  an  abortion.  If  it  is  a  very  early  one,  then  the 
question  of  abortion  becomes  almost  semantic.  Thus,  do  we 
consider  expulsion  of  the  fertilized  egg  after  one  or  two 
days  an  abortion?  If  not,  do  we  consider  it  after  ten  days, 
or  twenty  or  thirty  or  eighty?  In  the  Koran,  for  instance, 
life  is  supposed  to  start  only  around  day  eighty,  because  it 
is  then  that  the  fetus  is  supposed  to  acquire  a  soul. 
Therefore,  under  the  limitations  of  the  Muslim  religion, 
elimination  of  the  fertilized  ovum  during  most  of  the  first 
trimester  of  pregnancy  (incidentally,  by  far  the  safest  time 
from  a  clinical  standpoint)  would  not  be  considered  an 
improper  abortion. 

Professor  Freund  in  his  earlier  talk  raised  the  question 
of  legal  constraints  and  impositions  in  the  field  of  genetic 
engineering,  and  I  believe  that  he  considered  this  especially 
in  the  context  of  potential  human  cloning.  If  we  actually 
would  reach  that  particular  level  of  technical  competence 
when  human  cloning  is  actually  feasible,  then  I  have 
personally  great  doubts  about  the  efficacy  and  feasibility  of 
effective  legislative  coercion  in  that  field.  Let  me  cite  a 
fairly  simple  but  not  too  well  known  example  from  the 
field  of  abortion  to  substantiate  this  view. 

Abortion  is  in  many  respects  the  most  widely  practiced 
practical  form  of  birth  control.  It  is,  of  course,  not 
preventive  medical  practice,  but  rather  might  be  considered 
a  cure  for  a  "disease,"  if  one  actually  considered  an 
unwanted  pregnancy  to  be  a  disease.  In  many  countries, 
notably  in  eastern  Europe  since  World  War  II,  abortion  is 
available  free  on  demand.  Furthermore,  statistics  from 
these  countries  are  now  fairly  readily  available,  and  they 
indicate  that  in  several  instances  the  number  of  abortions 
greatly  exceeds  the  number  of  births.  This  appears  to  be 
also  true  in  a  number  of  western  European  countries, 
notably  the  predominantly  Catholic  nations  such  as  France, 
Belgium,  Austria,  and  Italy,  where  the  number  of  illegal 
abortions  apparently   also   exceeds  or  at    Ic.im    equals   the 


14 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


number  of  births.  Indeed,  it  is  very  likely  that  in  the  entire 
world  somewhere  on  the  order  of  forty  million  abortions 
occur  in  any  one  year,  which  would  mean  that  nearly  8  per 
cent  of  all  women  of  reproductive  age  undergo  an  abortion 
in  any  one  year.  From  these  staggering  statistics  one  can 
conclude  that  even  very  oppressive  legislation  is  unsuccess- 
ful in  stopping  a  practice  in  the  field  of  birth  control  when 
the  motivation  exists  to  use  it. 

Rumania  happens  to  be  the  country  in  which,  until 
fairly  recently,  the  number  of  abortions  per  capita  was 
higher  than  that  in  any  other  country  and  in  the  middle 
1960s  reached  a  level  of  approximately  four  abortions  per 
live  birth.  As  a  result,  the  birth  rate  in  Rumania  dropped  to 
the  second  lowest  level  in  Europe.  The  Rumanian  govern- 
ment became  concerned  with  the  situation  and,  in  the  fall 
of  1967,  suddenly  passed  a  very  drastic  anti-abortion  law 
under  which  legal  abortion  in  Rumania  became  almost  as 
difficult  as  that  in  any  other  European  country.  As  a  result, 
within  one  year  the  birth  rate  in  Rumania  more  than 
doubled,  which  is  a  spectacular  increase  and  would  tend  to 
support  Professor  Freund's  fear  that  issues  dealing  with 
birth  (quantitatively,  i.e.,  birth  control;  and  qualitatively, 
i.e.,  genetic  engineering)  can  be  legislated  and  manipulated. 

However,  within  two  years  of  the  initial  passage  of  the 
strict  anti-abortion  law,  the  Rumanian  birth  rate  had  again 
dropped  very  strikingly  and  started  to  approach  its  original 
level,  because  it  apparently  took  the  Rumanian  population 
only  about  that  long  to  adjust  to  the  changed  circumstances 
and  to  switch  over  predominantly  to  illegal  abortions.  The 
technical  facilities  for  such  abortions  were,  of  course, 
available,  and  it  was  simply  necessary  to  set  up  the  original 
system  in  an  illegal  manner.  While  I  am  not  aware  whether 
precise  data  are  actually  available,  I  would  suspect  that  the 
only  consequence  of  the  shift  was  probably  an  increase  in 
the  maternal  death  rate,  an  effect  which  the  government 
hardly  wanted  to  stimulate.  The  point  that  I  am  trying  to 
make,  and  which  is  equally  applicable  to  abortion  and  to 
genetic  engineering,  is  that  when  we  talk  about  such  basic 
issues  as  procreation  we  are  dealing  with  individual  deci- 
sions, and  there  really  are  no  legislative  and  legal  mechan- 
isms for  changing  them  in  a  fundamental  manner.  Edu- 
cation, public  relations,  religion,  or  appeals  to  chauvinistic 
and  nationalistic  motives  are  much  more  effective  means  of 
manipulating  the  quantitative  and  qualitative  issues  of 
birth. 


Industrial  Considerations 

Let  me  now  indicate  how  industry  would  consider  the 
question  of  whether  it  should  get  involved  to  any  major 
extent  in  the  field  of  genetic  engineering.  From  a  purely 
pragmatic  viewpoint,  the  industrial  manager  would  first 
carry  out  an  R.O.I,  (return  on  investment)  calculation.  The 
factors  that  would  be  taken  into  consideration  would  be, 
for  instance,  the  potential  market  (which  in  this  case  is 
essentially  unknown),  the  development  costs  (which  in  this 
instance  would  be  horrendous),  the  development  time 
(which  I  think  would  be  fantastically  long),  and,  finally,  the 
method  of  distribution  (which  probably  would  be  highly 
restricted).  Adding  up  all  these  factors,  one  would  reach  the 


almost  inevitable  conclusion  that  one  cannot  make  a  real 
case  for  any  industrial  organization  getting  involved  in 
"constructive"  genetic  engineering  unless  that  particular 
company  is  purely  interested  in  doing  basic  research  in 
genetics.  However,  to  convert  these  research  findings  in  the 
genetics  laboratory  into  widely  applicable  agents  for  final 
human  use  would  be  prohibitively  expensive  and  lengthy, 
and  probably  even  unfeasible.  It  is  for  this  reason  that  I 
believe  that  industry  is  very  unlikely  to  get  involved  in  this 
area. 


Government  Regulations 

There  is  a  second  factor  which  industry  would  obviously 
take  into  consideration  and  that  is  the  question  of  the  role 
that  government  regulatory  agencies  play  in  this  field.  I  am 
rather  surprised  that  Professor  Freund  did  not  address 
himself  to  this  topic  because  he  would  obviously  be  more 
competent  to  do  so  than  any  of  the  other  speakers  at  this 
symposium.  I  would  say  that  this  aspect  raises  another  very 
significant  barrier  to  research  in  this  field,  and  here  again 
there  is  a  considerable  amount  of  similarity  to  the  present 
situation  in  the  birth-control  field,  which  I  have  actually 
covered  in  two  articles  which  appeared  fairly  recently  in 
Science2,3  Thus,  while  there  is  more  and  more  concern 
worldwide  about  the  so-called  human  population  explosion 
and  about  the  desirability  of  carrying  out  more  research  in 
the  area  of  reproductive  biology  and  physiology,  especially 
as  it  applies  to  birth  control,  in  actual  fact  less  work  is 
being  done  currently  insofar  as  practical  applications  are 
concerned.  This  is  not  something  which  one  realizes  if  one 
reads  ordinary  newspapers  or  even  most  scientific  journals. 
More  and  more  money  is  apparently  being  spent  in  this 
field,  but  less  and  less  practical  work  is  actually  being  done 
and  fewer  results  achieved  from  such  endeavors.  Most  of 
the  interesting  advances  are  actually  effected  in  the 
laboratory  on  experimental  animals  and  less  and  less 
exciting  new  work  is  being  carried  out  with  humans  because 
of  the  tremendously  increased  restrictions  regarding  human 
experimentation.  I  am  not  passing  any  value  judgment  on 
these  restrictions  other  than  to  point  out  that  they  exist 
and  that  it  would  be  pointless  to  ignore  them. 


Let  me  offer  a  quotation  from  an  article  which  came 
out  recently  in  Science,  entitled  "Gene  Therapy  for  Human 
Genetic  Disease."4  The  authors  were  dealing  with  the 
way-out  genetic  engineering  that  everyone  is  afraid  about, 
notably  about  chemical  treatment  through  modified 
DNA's.  In  the  article  the  authors  make  what  apparently 
seemed  to  them  a  new  observation:  "If  synthetic  DNA 
molecules  are  to  be  used,  then  we  visualize  the  Food  and 
Drug  Administration  or  some  similar  organization  enforcing 
quality  standards  for  DNA  preparations  used  in  gene 
therapy."  Note  that  the  authors  use  the  word  "visualize." 
This  seems  to  ignore  the  fact  that  it  is  not  a  question  of 
"visualizing";  enforcing  quality  standards  for  DNA  prepara- 
tions is  already  the  current  duty  and  function  of  the  FDA. 
In  this  particular  instance  we  are  dealing  with  genetic 
treatment  through  chemical  agents,  and  DNA  is  just 
another  chemical.  There  is  no  question  whatsoever  that  any 
researcher  in  this  field,  if  he  wanted  to  work  on  human 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


15 


applications,   would   have  to  follow  already  existing  FDA 
regulations,  which  he  would  find  very  restrictive. 

The  same  authors  indicate  that,  in  their  opinion,  one 
should  first  carry  out  extensive  studies  on  animals  to 
evaluate  the  potential  therapeutic  benefits.  These  tests 
should  include  long-term  studies  of  the  possible  induction 
of  cancer  and  genetic  disturbances  in  experimental  animals, 
and  that  this  would  require  the  development  of  animal 
models  for  human  genetic  diseases,  etc.  Apparently  the 
authors  of  that  article  again  overlooked  the  fact  that  this  is 
exactly  what  already  needs  to  be  done  now  in  areas  of 
medicine  that  are  much  simpler  than  genetic  engineering.  In 
fact,  according  to  the  relatively  new  legislative  mandates  of 
the  FDA,  that  agency  has  to  approve  for  all  practical 
purposes  all  protocols  for  new  clinical  research  upon 
humans.  In  other  words,  if  the  experimenter  wishes  to  treat 
his  patient  with  any  chemical,  and  DNA  is  a  chemical,  he 
first  will  have  to  get  permission  from  the  FDA  to  do  so.  In 
my  opinion,  it  is  exceedingly  unlikely  that  any  employee  of 
that  agency  would  in  fact  have  the  courage  to  permit  any  of 
these  experiments  to  be  carried  out  at  this  time.  He  would 
not  necessarily  have  to  forbid  them,  but  he  could  procrasti- 
nate in  a  manner  which  would  make  such  experimentation 
legally  impossible.  In  my  opinion,  investigators,  whether 
they  are  academic  or  industrial  ones,  should  not  ignore  this 
reality. 

There  is  an  apparent  loophole  to  this  control  of  a 
government  regulatory  agency  and  of  the  impact  of  legal 
restraints  on  research.  Specifically,  it  is  an  area  where 
human  experimentation  is  easily  possible  and  where  experi- 
ments are  sometimes  carried  out  without  applying  all  of  the 
ethical  and  moral  considerations  that  might  be  exerted.  I 
speak  of  surgical  interventions  because,  in  the  absence  of 
drugs,  regulatory  agencies  cannot,  at  this  stage,  enter.  Thus, 
if  one  concerns  oneself  with  questions  of  tissue  transplanta- 
tion, one  does  not  require  any  government  approval,  or 
indeed  any  outside  approval.  The  surgeon,  if  he  so  wishes, 
can  decide,  essentially  on  his  won  within  the  confines  of 
the  regulations  that  exist  in  his  own  hospital  or  institution, 
to  perform  such  experiments.  This,  or  course,  is  what  has 
happened  in  the  case  of  heart  transplants.  However,  since 
almost  any  form  of  genetic  engineering  that  one  could 
conceive  of  at  this  stage  will  not  be  purely  surgical  but  will 
involve,  in  one  way  or  another,  chemical  manipulation,  1 
believe  that  the  tremendous  barrier  of  externally  imposed 
restraints  by  government  regulatory  agency  should  not  be 
ignored  and  that  this  will  probably  be  the  most  secure 
insurance  that  little,  if  any,  of  this  research  will  actually  be 
performed. 


Prospects  for  the  Future 

Until  now  I  have  essentially  covered  only  negative  factors 
and  you  might  ask  whether  there  are  any  positive  ones. 
Could  industry  conceivably  get  involved  in  the  area  of 
genetic  engineering  and,  if  so,  could  one  really  reach  some 
goals  in  the  foreseeable  future?  For  the  purposes  of  this 
talk,  "foreseeable  future"  might  be  considered  the  time 
when  the  grandchildren  of  the  class  of  1972  are  living. 

I    am    convinced    that  genetic  engineering  will  be  used 
relatively  soon  in  the  veterinary  Held,  and  Professor  Danielli 


16 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


has  already  addressed  himself  to  this  topic.  Moral  restraints 
do  not  enter  here,  and  neither  do  practical  restraints.  In  this 
instance  economic  considerations  are  probably  overriding, 
and  progress  in  the  field  is  such  that  marked  advances  can 
be  anticipated. 

What  about  applications  of  "preventive"  genetic  engi- 
neering in  humans?  Surely  there  are  some  areas  where  a 
consensus  on  the  part  of  scientists,  lawyers,  and  theologians 
can  easily  be  reached;  for  instance,  few  of  them  will 
probably  argue  the  point  that  the  prevention  of  mongolism 
in  babies  is  a  desirable  goal.  In  order  to  achieve  it,  advances 
in  diagnosis  at  an  early  stage  are  crucially  important. 
Technically  it  is  possible  to  aspirate  amniotic  fluid  and  to 
analyze  it.  If  one  developed  accurate  diagnostic  procedures, 
preferably  automated  ones,  it  would  provide  us  with 
information  on  a  wide  variety  of  potentially  deleterious 
genetic  diseases,  and  it  would  then  be  possible  to  inform 
the  pregnant  mother  of  that  fact  and  leave  up  to  her  the 
decision  whether  she  wants  to  terminate  pregnancy  through 
an  abortion.  This,  incidentally,  is  the  reason  why  abortion 
is  so  intimately  linked  with  genetic  engineering. 

In  fact,  Professor  Ramsey  in  his  book  Artificial  Man 
makes  the  explicit  statement  that  people  do  not  have  the 
God-given  right  to  have  children  and  that  he  is  prepared  to 
give  society  and  governments  the  decision-making  power  as 
to  who  should  and  should  not  have  them  under  certain 
conditions.  I  would  only  go  one  slight  step  further  and  state 
that  a  woman  who  happens  to  be  pregnant  and  is  informed 
unambiguously  that  her  child  will  be  a  mongoloid  should 
have  the  option  to  decide  by  herself  whether  she  wants  to 
give  birth  to  such  a  child.  If  you  agree  with  that  position, 
then  you  have  already  agreed  with  the  principle  that  it  is 
the  prospective  mother  that  should  make  the  decision 
whether  she  wishes  to  have  a  child  or  not  and,  con- 
sequently, that  the  decision  on  abortion  should  be  hers. 

This  brings  us  finally  to  the  spectre  of  human  cloning, 
and  I  really  feel  that  it  is  only  a  spectre.  It  is  a  topic  that 
lends  itself  to  sensational  magazine  articles,  but  the  chance 
of  this  really  happening  in  a  human  being  is  enormously  far 
away.  Professor  Ramsey  alluded  to  my  colleague,  Professor 
Joshua  Lederberg  of  the  Stanford  Genetics  Department, 
who  has  written  extensively  on  this  subject.  While  Leder- 
berg certainly  does  not  exclude  the  theoretical  feasibility  of 
this  being  demonstrated  in  higher  animals,  I  believe  that  he 
is  quite  convinced  that  the  lead  times  are  much  longer  than 
most  people  are  prepared  to  accept.  I  believe  that  no  one 
working  in  this  particular  aspect  of  human  engineering, 
namely  human  cloning,  has  ever  tried  to  construct  a  critical 
path  map.  This  is  something  that  academic  scientists  are  not 
accustomed  to  do,  whereas  industrial  scientists  find  this  an 
important  intellectual  discipline.  Let  me  again  cite  an 
example  from  the  birth  control  field. 

Two  years  ago  in  a  paper  in  Science  I  considered  what 
it  would  take  to  develop  an  ideal  birth  control  agent,  such 
as  a  once-a-month  pill  for  women  which  would  be  a  menses 
inducer.  A  woman  would  take  such  a  pill  once  a  month, 
and  this  would  induce  menstruation;  if  she  had  gotten 
pregnant  during  the  preceding  month,  the  pill  would 
initiate  what  we  might  call  a  microabortion,  because  she 
would  in  fact  have  been  pregnant  for  a  couple  of  weeks. 
When  I  constructed  a  critical  path  map  for  such  a 
hypothetical  agent,  I  reached  the  conclusion  that  the  lead 


times  involved  would  be  such  that  such  an  agent  could  not 
be  developed  until  the  mid-1980's  at  the  earliest.  This 
paper3  actually  generated  more  attention  than  any  of  the 
hundreds  of  other  scientific  articles  that  I  have  written,  and 
I  believe  that  in  part  this  was  due  to  the  fact  that  I  called 
attention  to  the  stark  realities  of  time  and  money  costs 
involved  in  developing  such  complicated  approaches  for 
human  application.  It  is  a  topic  that  academic  and 
government  scientists,  as  well  as  legislators  and  especially 
the  press,  like  to  ignore.  If  such  a  critical  path  map  is 
prepared  for  developments  in  human  cloning,  then  it  will 
become  perfectly  obvious  that  we  are  talking  about  a 
development  that,  even  if  it  got  major  scientific  and 
governmental  support,  could  not  be  developed  until  some- 
where in  the  next  century. 

The  statement  is  sometimes  made  that  these  are  only 
technical  problems  in  the  sense  that  the  fundamental 
scientific  questions  associated  with  cloning  have  already 
been  solved,  and  that  all  that  is  required  is  a  technological 
effort  to  apply  these  solutions  to  humans.  Here  again,  my 
colleague  Joshua  Lederberg  presents  a  very  good  answer  to 
this  simplistic  view.  He  stated  in  so  many  words  that,  while 
we  have  the  technical  knowledge  to  build  bridges,  it  does 
not  follow  that  we  are  able  to  build  a  bridge  from  San 
Francisco  to  Honolulu.  I  would  extend  Lederberg's  bridge- 
building  analogy  to  cloning  by  stating  that  this  is  not  even 
equivalent  to  building  a  bridge  from  San  Francisco  to 
Honolulu  but  rather  from  San  Francisco  to  Sydney,  or 
perhaps  even  across  the  Indian  Ocean.  I  rather  doubt  that 
the  chances  of  building  such  a  bridge  soon  are  very  good, 
even  for  the  highly  competent  engineers  that  graduate  from 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute.  B 


'C.  Djerassi,  "Fertility  Control  through  Abortion  —  An  Assessment 

of  the  Period  1950-1980,"  Bull.  Atomic  Scientists,  28  (No.   1),  9 

(1972). 

2C.  Djerassi,  "Prognosis  for  the  Development  of  New  Clinical  Birth 

Control  Agents,"  Science,  166,  468  (1969) 

3C.  Djerassi,  "Birth  Control  after  1984,"  Science,  169,  941  (1970). 

4T.   Friedmann  and  R.  Roblin,  "Gene  Therapy  for  Human  Genetic 

Disease,"  Science,  175,  949  (1972). 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


17 


Genetic  Engineering 


Interplay 


Questions  and  Panel  Discussion 


H, 


-ow  does  a  clone  differ  from  ordinary  tissue 
culture?  What  makes  cells  clone? 

DR.  DANIELLI.  In  a  clone,  the  genetic  composition  of  all 
the  cells  is  the  same,  whereas  in  ordinary  tissue  culture, 
there  is  a  good  deal  of  variation,  due  to  accidents  on  the 
way  before  the  stuff  gets  into  tissue  culture.  The  tissue 
culture  in  a  clone,  in  other  words,  is  a  slightly  refined 
ordinary  culture. 


wh 


ho  decides  on  value  systems  in  the  future?  Is 
anything  being  done  on  a  reasonable  scale  in  legal 
or  political  schools  to  address  the  question  of  who 
will  answer  these  critical  questions  and  how? 

DR.  FREUND.  Well,  there  certainly  is  growing  interest 
in  the  ethics  of  scientific  advance.  In  medical  schools,  and  I 
dare  say  even  engineering  schools,  certainly  in  law  schools, 
there  is  growing  interest  in  professional  ethics  in  a  basic 
sense.  I  don't  know  how  you  arrive  at  these  things.  There  is 
a  kind  of  Alphonse-Gaston  game,  with  the  scientists  and 
society  waiting  for  the  lawyers  and  judges  and  administra- 
tors to  prescribe  the  ground  rules,  while  the  lawyers  and 
judges  and  administrators  are  waiting  for  a  consensus  to 
develop  in  society. 

I  think  that  healthy  development  would  be  to  try  to 
arrive  at  a  consensus,  and  that  is  why  I  think  that  even 
though  advances  like  cloning  may  be  fifty  years  distant,  in 
the  age  of  grandchildren  rather  than  children  of  those 
present,  that  is  not  too  long  a  time  in  which  to  consider 
these  problems.  Symposia  like  this  are  a  modest  beginning, 
but  we  need  more  systematic  effort.  I  would  hope  that 
professional  associations  would  do  it  in  a  more  sympto- 
matic way. 

As  you  know,  there  are  institutes  now  that  do  issue 
publications  and  do  research.  The  Institute  of  Medicine  was 
set  up  by  the  National  Academy  of  Sciences.  The  Institute 
for  Life  Sciences  in  Hastings,  New  York,  is  doing  important 
and  interesting  work  both  in  research  and  in  publication. 

What  we  need  is  more  such  centers  and  more  such 
intermingling  of  the  disciplines. 


±.  he  behavioral  sciences  are  developing  ways  of 
exercising  control  over  the  individual  by  capitaliz- 
ing on  characteristics  which  may  not  always  be 
controlled  by  the  individual  himself.  Do  you  agree 
with  this,  and  how  do  you  categorize  such  research 
as  compared  to  that  of  chemical  alteration  of  the 
individual? 

DR.  RAMSEY.  I  think  I  have  no  real  competence  to 
answer  that  question.  It  is  in  the  general  department  of  the 
fact  that  there  seems  to  me  to  be  a  difference  of  kind,  not 
only  a  difference  of  degree,  into  which  we  are  moving  not 
only  in  the  genetic  alteration  of  the  future  of  the  race  on 
certain  suppositions,  but  pharmacological  alteration  or 
other  kinds  of  alteration  of  human  cells. 

It  is  certainly  arguable  that  every  environmental  change 
we  have  made  in  history  has  had  a  returning  impact  upon 
the  genetic  composition  of  the  individual  and  the  popula- 
tion. In  other  words,  we  have  been  altering  ourselves  all 
down  through  human  history,  but  throughout  most  of  this 
time  we  have  had  kickback.  We  could  stick  our  tongue  out 
at  it. 

The  measure  in  which,  I  think,  this  now  places  in  man's 
hands  the  ability  to  impose  chronological  and  genetic 
control  does  not  leave  room  for  that  reciprocity  of  freedom 
and  destiny  which  has  been  a  part  of  the  human  story  to 
this  point. 

I  may  have  misunderstood  the  question.  In  any  case,  I 
probably  don't  know  the  answer  to  it. 

XV re  you  hopeful  as  to  the  future  of  man? 
Would  you  care  to  comment  on  gene  changes  you 
expect? 

DR.  DANIELLI.  I  am  caught  as  ever  between  my 
optimistic  temperament  and  my  judgment.  It  seems  to  me 
that  human  beings  have  managed  to  wriggle  out  of  a  great 
many  tight  corners  in  the  past,  it  is  reasonable  to  hope  that 
they  will  do  so  in  the  future. 

However,  I  think  it  may  be  necessary  for  us  to  have  a 
drastic  reorganization  of  our  societ)  .  as  incurred,  shall  we 
say,  when  the  transition  from  food  gathering  to  agriculture 
took  place,  which  after  all  is  one  ol  the  must  profound 
changes  that  mankind  encountered. 


18 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


In  other  words,  what  may  be  necessary  to  look  with 
optimism  on  the  long-term  future  of  man  is  that  a 
consensus  will  need  to  be  established  between  the  different 
cultures  which  we  have  existing  in  the  world  at  the  present 
time.  We  will  have  to  agree,  first  of  all,  that  the  differences 
which  exist  between  ourselves  and  other  cultural  groups  of 
the  world  are  trivial  compared  with  the  problems  with 
which  we  shall  be  confronted  in  the  future,  and  that  we 
should  be  willing  to  lay  aside  our  differences  and  try  to 
work  out  some  appropriate  way  through  these  certainly 
immense  problems  with  which  we  are  clearly  going  to  be 
confronted  in  the  next  hundred  years. 

I  can't  say  when  one  looks  at  the  world  right  at  this 
moment  that  one  would  be  enthusiastic  about  the  pros- 
pects. But  after  all,  there  are  changes  of  heart  that  take 
place,  and  I  may  pull  Dr.  Ramsey's  leg  a  little  —  it's  only  a 
hundred  years  ago  that  evolution  was  not  respectable  as  far 
as  the  Church  was  concerned.  Only  a  hundred  years  ago, 
and  I  am  not  pulling  anyone's  leg,  very  few  people  went  to 
school.  Many  extraordinary  changes  take  place  without  our 
having  realized  what  happened,  and  I  think  it  may  well  be 
that  some  are  beginning  to  take  place  now  which  are  as 
essential  or  more  essential  than  those  that  have  taken  place 
in  the  past. 

Therefore,  let  me  say  one  should  not  base  one's  hopes 
entirely  upon  what  is  clearly  predictable.  It  is  a  good  thing 
to  be  hopeful. 


JLt  appears  to  me  that  the  average  quality  of  the 
human  genetic  pool  is  decreasing  because  modern 
technology  is  damping  natural  selection.  Please 
comment 

DR.  HOAGLAND.  In  a  sense  this  is  so,  because  it  is 
medical  procedures  and  medical  therapy  which  are  pre- 
serving the  lives  of  people  who  in  earlier  times  would  have 
died  because  of  the  illnesses  they  happened  to  have.  Take 
diabetes.  The  diabetic  was  fated  not  to  live  to  reproduction 
very  often  before  1922  and  the  advent  of  insulin.  With  the 
advent  of  insulin  and  its  use,  the  diabetic  can  live  pretty 
much  as  long  as  anyone  else. 

Diabetes  mellitus  is  a  disease  with  a  strong  genetic 
comport,  and  of  course  diabetics  who  then  proceed  to  have 
children  who  are  also  diabetics  are  increasing  the  number  of 
genes  for  diabetes  in  the  human  gene  pool  by  the  fact  that 
they  reproduce,  which  they  didn't  before  to  anything  like 
the  same  degree.  A  great  many  genetic  diseases  belong  in 
this  category,  where  medicine  is  making  people  live  longer 
to  be  able  to  reproduce,  which  they  didn't  before. 

This  is  all  part  of  a  humane  approach  to  these  problems, 
and  yet  the  gene  pool  is  certainly  deteriorating  under  the 
increased  number  of  defective  genes  that  are  being  carried 
on  as  recessive  or  even  dominant  genes. 

J.  H.  Mueller  was  one  of  the  people  most  concerned 
about  this  problem.  He  calculated  that  it  would  be  a 
considerable  number  of  generations  before  this  disastrous 
occurrence  would  be  clearly  in  evidence,  but  he  did  predict 
the  time  would  come  when  most  of  the  occupation  of 
human  beings  would  be  developing  prosthetic  devices  for 
each  other  as  a  result  of  accumulating  genetic  defects  which 


will  pile  up  over  a  period  of  many  generations.  So  there  is 
deterioration,  as  a  result  of  our  basic  humanity,  of  the  very 
things  that  we  think  are  important,  namely  to  save  lives  and 
to  prevent  suffering,  and  this  is  certainly  having  some 
impact  on  our  gene  pool. 

DR.  DJERASSI.  I  think  there's  an  oversimplification 
both  in  the  question  and  the  answer  that  Dr.  Hoagland 
gave.  That  is,  of  course,  true  as  far  as  it  goes,  but  there  are, 
as  you  pointed  out,  many  diseases  —  diabetes  being  a  very 
good  example  —  where,  by  keeping  diabetics  alive,  they  are 
creative  and  otherwise  exceedingly  productive  human 
beings,  and  the  contribution  that  one  diabetic  can  make  to 
the  future  of  the  world  can  be  enormous  compared  to  the 
harm  that  he  will  do  by  perpetuating  that  undesirable  gene. 

To  give  you  an  example,  suppose  Einstein  had  been 
diabetic?  There  is  no  question  whatsoever  he  would  have 
died  before  he  could  have  done  what  he  did.  If  Mozart  had 
been  a  diabetic,  what  then?  I  think  it  is  unreasonable 
therefore  to  simply  say  that  the  genetic  pool,  using  it  in 
that  context,  is  getting  worse.  In  certain  respects,  it  is 
improving  the  quality  of  life.  This  is  where  I  think  I  would 
use  preventive  genetic  engineering  as  a  very  important 
concept  and  define  very  carefully  which  particularly  un- 
desirable features  I  as  a  policy-making  scientist  or  physician 
would  be  concerned  about. 


wh 


hat  is  the  value  of  considering  whether  or  not 
genetic  engineering  is  morally  right  when  it  is 
inevitable?  Perhaps  the  more  important  question  is, 
how  can  or  should  man  adapt  to  this  science? 

DR.  RAMSEY.  The  question  asks  what  is  the  value  of 
considering  whether  anything  is  right  when  it  is  inevitable. 
The  questioner  assumes  that  one  can  derive,  I  think,  the 
right  or  the  value  of  human  reflection  from  a  description  of 
what  is  inevitable  —  a  description  of  fact. 

I  myself,  as  a  man  who  attempts  to  be  reflective  upon 
the  human  behavior  —  that's  the  definition  of  an  ethicist, 
which  means  each  of  you  is  an  ethicist  if  you  would  only 
let  yourself  go  and  be  one  —  I  would  have  to  say  that  one 
cannot  think  reflectively  about  the  right  and  wrong  of 
human  behavior  if  one  proceeds  to  derive  from  what  is 
hoped  to  be  from  what  is  inevitable  or  will  be.  Neither  can 
one  derive  what  will  be  from  what  "ought  to  be." 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


19 


So  a  provisional  answer  to  that  for  myself  would  simply 
have  to  be  that  it  seems  to  me  that  the  human  being  at  all 
above  the  level  of  the  beasts  of  the  field  would  want  to  be 
able  to  say,  if  he  is  the  last  man  around,  the  last  dying  being 
of  this  universe,  if  it  came  about  by  some  wrong  human 
action,  some  holocaust,  some  heinous  immorality,  he  would 
have  to  have  stature  enough  to  say,  though  he  knew  it  was 
inevitable  because  he  stood  there  —  he  would  want  to  be 
able  to  say  that  it  came  about  by  something  that  was 
wrong,  as  against  simply  a  program  of  adjusting  to  the 
inevitable  course  of  events. 


Gi 


riven  Western  civilization's  peculiar  attitudes 
towards  non-Caucasoids,  isn't  it  conceivable  that 
there  could  be  a  systematic  plan  to  mount  a 
campaign  of  ethnic  genocide? 

DR.  DANIELLI.  Well,  how  good  is  the  evidence  that 
the  attitudes  of  Caucasoids  toward  other  racial  groups  is 
different  from  that  of  any  of  the  racial  groups  to  all  other 
racial  groups?  There  is  very  little  difference  between  us 
except  in  the  means  we  have  of  expressing  our  dislike  of 
one  another. 

Elimination  of  one  group  is 'not  going  to  solve  any 
problems. 

DR.  HOAGLAND.  For  my  part,  I  cannot  conceive  of 
any  such  thing. 

DR.  DJERASSI.  I  will  give  you  my  conclusions,  for 
slightly  different  reasons.  If  some  person  really  wanted  to 
do  this,  he  would  only  be  able  to  accomplish  this,  even 
assuming  all  the  political  powers  he  would  have  to  do  it, 
within  the  very  narrow  confines  of  possibly  a  fraction  of 
one  country. 

It  is  simply  not  logistical  or  feasible  to  carry  this  out 
worldwide,  because  a  vast  majority  of  the  population,  of 
course,  is  not  Caucasian.  Unless  he  blew  up  literally 
four-fifths  of  the  world,  he  could  not  do  this. 

We  have  to  remember  that  nearly  one-third  of  the  world 
is  Chinese,  and  if  you  just  add  another  third  —  just  India 
and  a  few  other  surrounding  countries  —  there  is  more  than 
half  of  the  world's  population,  in  Asia,  which  is  not 
Caucasian.  So  it  is  totally  unfeasible. 

If  it  is  addressed  in  the  context  that  a  Californian  would 
like  to  reduce  the  number  of  Chicanos,  or  the  people  in 
Manhattan  would  like  to  have  fewer  Puerto  Ricans  or 
blacks,  that  is  theoretically  feasible,  but  I  think  even  in  this 
day  and  age  rather  difficult  to  accomplish.  And  it  is 
obviously  undesirable  to  really  accomplish. 


in  a  given  socio-political  system,  will  those  same 
groups  who  make  political  decisions  also  make 
genetic  decisions? 

DR.  FREUND.  This  really  breaks  down  into  a  formal 
answer  and  a  somewhat  more  sophisticated  answer. 

Formally,  the  question  would  be,  "Will  the  legislators 
and  courts  make  the  decisions  about  genetic  engineering  as 
they  do  about,  shall  we  say,  vaccination  or  quarantine?"  I 
suppose  in  the  end  that  will  be  so.  However,  remember  that 


it  is  one  function  of  public  lawmaking  to  decide  what 
sectors  shall  be  left  to  private  choice. 

In  other  words,  it  is  a  tricky  question  because  it  is  the 
legislature  that  decides,  for  example,  whether  there  shall  or 
shall  not  be  any  law  on  abortion.  But  in  a  still  more 
sophisticated  sense,  the  legislators  are  going  to  reflect  the 
consensus  of  their  constituents,  and  that  is  a  difficult 
question  to  answer. 

My  suggestion  was  that  the  more  broadly  affected  the 
population  is  by  any  proposals,  the  better  inherent  check 
we  have  on  a  decision-making  process.  Just  as  one  argument 
against  a  volunteer  army  is  that  we  might  be  readier  to  go 
to  war  if  the  sons  of  most  families  were  not  subject  to  be 
called. 

In  other  words,  there  isn't  a  real  consensus  if  a  measure 
is  adopted  that  burdens  a  very  small  and  special  class  which 
has  relatively  little  political  weight. 

So  that  all  I  can  say  is  that  I  think,  though  informed 
decisions  will  be  made  by  the  conventional  decision-making 
organs,  that  more  realistically  these  will  depend  on  what 
consensus  develops  in  society,  and  that  in  turn  may  be 
affected  by  how  widely  shared  any  programs  of  genetic 
engineering  are,  how  many  families  would  be  affected. 

That  seems  to  me  an  important  factor  in  assessing  the 
reality  of  a  consensus. 

DR.  RAMSEY.  Don't  you  think,  Dr.  Danielli,  about  the 
real  question  behind  that  research  you  are  doing  on 
discovering  the  nature  of  the  aging  process?  You  have  very 
charming  notions  as  to  what  usage  we  would  make  of  that 
—  the  value  to  the  individual  is  that  we  would  all  function 
at  a  high  level  and  suddenly  we  will  go  to  pieces  like  the 
one-horse  shay;  the  value  to  the  society  is  that  it  would  deal 
with  the  problem  of  health  care. 

Doctor,  don't  you  really  think  there  is  a  problem  as  to 
what  the  politicians  and  the  power  brokers  are  going  to  do 
with  the  knowledge  of  how  to  master  the  aging  process? 

I  think  they  are  going  to  want  to  live  a  long  time. 
They're  not  going  to  take  the  solution  you  propose. 

What  of  the  abuses  that  stand  close  to  the  elbow  of  the 
scientist?  The  question  that  is  really  in  the  minds  of  the 
audience  in  some  of  these  questions  concerns  the  political 
processes  by  which  one  is  going  to  even  imagine  how  wc 
could  do  anything  other  than  make  ourselves  worse  nil  by 
learning  to  master  the  aging  process  in  terms  of  the  actual 


20 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


use  that  would  be  made  by  the  people  with  decision-making 
power  —  or  all  of  us,  and  our  natural  desires. 

That  seems  to  me  to  be  an  issue  that  may  be  different 
between  you  and  me  temperamentally,  me  being  rather 
gloomy  and  you  being  rather  more  hopeful.  But  really,  the 
question  is,  how  does  one,  without  stopping  theoretical 
advance  of  knowledge,  move  a  society  into  the  actual  social 
applications?  We  can  all  think  of  desirable  applications;  we 
can  also  think  of  probably  many  more  probably  undesirable 
applications. 

DR.  DANIELLI.  I  think  there  is  little  doubt,  and  it  is 
by  no  means  certain  that  we  can  do  this,  but  if  we  do  learn 
to  adjust  the  rate  of  aging  of  individual  organ  systems  and 
so  forth,  we  may  improve  general  health  without  necessar- 
ily changing  the  life  span  of  man,  which  is  a  different  thing 
altogether,  irrespective  of  what  the  politicos  might  wish  or 
might  do  that  would  be  an  advantage. 

On  the  other  hand,  if  for  our  future  we  are  dependent 
upon  the  type  of  governmental  process  and  the  type  of 
relationship  between  different  communities  on  a  worldwide 
basis  which  we  see  going  on  now,  I  think  any  sensible 
human  would  necessarily  despair.  It  is  quite  obvious  that 
the  priorities  are  quite  wrong  in  terms  of  the  problems  that 
confront  us.  For  example,  I  suppose  that  on  what  is 
sometimes  called  "defense"  we  probably  spend  about  two 
thousand  billion  dollars  a  year. 

Now,  most  of  this  expenditure,  in  fact,  is  self-defeating 
in  that  everybody  does  the  same  thing  within  their  means, 
and  the  hope  is  that  we  end  up  in  a  stalemate. 

If  the  same  resources  were  devoted  to  more  serious 
problems,  I  think  one  would  feel  more  hopeful  about  it, 
but  quite  clearly  a  change  of  heart  is  necessary  before  that 
sort  of  transformation  takes  place,  and  that  is  basically  why 
I  say  that  most  of  the  major  problems  which  confront  us  in 
the  future  are  not  likely  to  be  solved  unless  there  is  a  new 
ordering  of  society. 

DR.  DJERASSI.  I  think  this  is  a  very  important 
question,  and  we  have  had  significant  comments  on  it.  I 
would  like  to  address  myself  to  it  from  a  different 
viewpoint. 

There  is  really  a  negative  feedback  group  in  this  which 
makes  it  fairly  unlikely  that  this  is  going  to  happen  very 
soon,  for  the  following  reasons. 

When  you  consider  the  narrow  question  of  aging  and 
deterioration,  which  certainly  is  perhaps  the  most  difficult 
one  in  medicine,  very  few  advances  have  been  made  on  a 
practical  basis,  and  there  are  really  not  any  just  on  the 
horizon  soon  in  terms  of  practicable  applicability. 

Let's  take  as  an  example  multiple  sclerosis,  which 
certainly  is  one  of  the  most  common  killers  of  men, 
particularly  males.  If  we  would  like  to  do  something  about 
this  in  terms  of  preventing,  let's  say,  a  deposition  of 
cholesterol  in  the  arteries  in  middle  age  and  later  on,  we 
really  ought  to  do  something  around  age  eighteen  or 
nineteen,  when  the  process  starts.  Theoretically  we  can 
indicate  that  if  we  give  something  to  young  men  around 
that  age,  and  they  keep  on  taking  that  particular  preventa- 
tive, then  it  is  likely  that  the  incidence  of  multiple  sclerosis 
at  the  age  of  fifty,  sixty,  or  so  on,  would  greatly  decrease, 
and  that  would  certainly  have  an  impact  on  longevity  —  and 
on  a  lot  of  other  things  as  well. 


However,  to  carry  out  this  particular  experiment  —  even 
if  we  in  fact  found  a  suitable  animal  model  —  we  would 
have  to  carry  out  these  experiments  for  twenty,  thirty,  or 
forty  years,  in  order  to  evaluate  them  statistically.  I  think 
you  yourselves  know  that  there  are  objections  to  this,  even 
in  the  area  of  contraceptives,  oral  contraceptives  in  women. 

A  statement  was  made,  quite  validly,  incidentally,  as  to 
what  happened  to  a  woman  who  was  given  something  for 
twenty  years?  The  only  answer  is  that  you  are  going  to  have 
to  carry  out  the  experiment  for  twenty  years,  and  if  you 
don't  want  to  then  you  can  never  know  with  absolute 
assurance. 

That  boils  down  to  the  risk/benefit  evaluation,  which 
we  are  exceedingly  poorly  equipped  to  handle.  This  applies 
to  politicians,  it  applies  to  I  think  even  scientists,  and  I 
think  this  is  the  very,  very  serious  restraining  factor  that 
extends  at  an  astronomical  rate  the  lead  time  between 
laboratory  discoveries  and  the  practical  applications,  and 
therefore  social  applications.  H 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


21 


© 


ieunion 


Constitution  and 
By-Laws  Changes 
Approved 

At  the  Annual  Meeting  of  the  WPI 
Alumni  Association,  called  to  order  at  the 
Reunion  Day  luncheon  on  Saturday,  June 
10,  1972  by  Association  President  Irving 
James  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44,  the  proposed 
changes  to  the  Constitution  and  By-laws 
of  the  Association  were  approved  unani- 
mously. Committee  reports  and  reports  of 
the  officers  were  waived  at  the  suggestion 
of  the  chairman,  as  Mr.  Donahue  noted 
these  were  all  on  file  with  the  minutes  of 
the  May,  1 972  Alumni  Council  meeting. 

The  vote  marked  the  culmination  of 
many  months  of  hard  work  which  began 
in  1969.  At  that  time  a  master  plan  com- 
mittee was  appointed  by  Association  Presi- 
dent Robert  E.  Higgs,  '40  and  the  com- 
mittee was  chaired  by  Professor  Malcolm 
S.  Burton,  '40.  Their  report  recommended 
that  the  activities  of  the  Alumni  Association 
be  tied  in  much  more  closely  with  the 
operations  of  the  College  itself  since  a 
stated  objective  of  the  Association  was  to 
work  for  the  betterment  of  WPI.  Following 
this,  Higgs  appointed  a  Reorganization 
Committee  of  eight  alumni  to  study  the 
recommendations  of  the  Master  Plan  Com- 
mittee and  to  recommend  a  course  of 
action.  This  committee  was  presided  over 
by  Vice-President  of  the  Association, 
Bradley  E.  Hosmer, '61. 


The  Reorganization  Committee  recom- 
mended in  its  report  that  basically  the 
Alumni  Association  should  continue  as  a 
policy-making  body  in  the  area  of  alumni 
affairs  at  the  college,  but  that  the  day-to- 
day operations  of  the  Association  should 
come  under  the  direct  guidance  of  the 
college  administration.  It  recommended 
nine  points  of  reorganization  and  those 
nine  points  were  approved  by  the  Alumni 
Council  and  the  Association  in  June  of 
1970  for  the  Association  to  operate  on  a 
one  year  trial  basis  under  the  reorganized 
set-up  during  the  1 970-71  year. 

During  the  1970-71  year,  Mr.  Higgs 
asked  Mr.  Hosmer  to  chair  a  three  member 
committee  to  develop  a  proposal  for  re- 
vision to  the  Constitution  and  By-laws  of 
the  Association  which  would  incorporate 
the  nine  points  of  reorganization.  This 
committee  did  develop  a  detailed  proposal, 
but  in  June  of  1971  the  Council  decided 
to  ask  the  Association  to  extend  the  trial 
period  of  operation  for  another  year, 
rather  than  to  vote  on  the  proposal,  so  that 
it  could  be  studied  and  developed  more 
fully.  The  Association  did  grant  this  ex- 
tension at  its  Annual  meeting  in  June  of 
1971. 

At  a  specially-called  meeting  in  October, 
1971,  the  Alumni  Council  devoted  an  en- 
tire Saturday  to  the  revision  and  refinement 
of  the  proposal  of  the  Hosmer  committee. 
In  the  end  a  final  proposal  was  developed 
and  at  the  February,  1972  meeting  of  the 
Council  it  was  approved  unanimously.  The 
Council-approved  proposal  was  then 
mailed  to  all  alumni  of  record  on  April 
19,  1972  and  the  vote  of  the  Association 


on  June  10,  1972  approved  the  proposal 
unanimously. 

In  commenting  on  the  vote.  President 
Donahue  said,  "We  feel  extremely  con- 
fident that  the  changes  voted,  which  are 
primarily  in  operating  procedures,  will  have 
a  very  positive  effect  on  improving  the 
efficiency  and  effectiveness  of  the  alumni 
program  at  WPI.  I  am  most  pleased  by  the 
overwhelmingly  affirmative  vote  given  by 
the  Association  to  the  changes  and  I'm 
confident  that  we  have  taken  a  major  step 
in  the  right  direction.  It  has  been  most 
gratifying  to  see  committee  members  and 
the  Council  work  so  conscientiously  on 
this  important  topic  and  I'd  like  to  thank 
each  and  every  one  of  them  for  their  help 
and  dedication." 

CLASS  OF  1912 

We  had  1 4  at  our  sixtieth  reunion,  Friday, 
June  9,  1972.  Included  were  Joseph  and 
Helen  Granger,  Frank  and  Beulah  Mc- 
Gowan,  Henry  and  Madeline  Rickett, 
Holman  and  Katherine  Waring,  Eugene 
and  Gertrude  Powers,  Marjorie  Nickerson, 
Howard  King,  Edward  Tucker,  and  Har- 
rison Brown.  The  Ricketts  hold  the  record 
for  attending  all  reunions  in  ten  years. 

As  usual,  we  had  dinner  at  the  Marlboro 
Country  Club  and  the  meeting  at  the  home 
of  our  President,  Joe  Granger. 

There  was  only  one  death  during  the 
year,  Bertram  Cleveland  on  May  16.  Our 
membership  is  now  28. 

Over  $3200  interest  is  available  in  the 
Herbert  Foster  Taylor  Student  Aid  Fund. 

Itwas  decided  to  hold  reunions  every  year 
as  long  as  there  are  any  who  want  to  come. 


1912 


1917 


22 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Officers  elected  for  the  next  five  years: 
President,  Joseph  Granger;  Vice  President, 
Henry  Rickett;  Secretary-Treasurer,  Har- 
rison Brown. 

Questionnaires  sent  out  again  this  year 
showed  that,  in  general,  our  members  are 
continuing  the  activities  previously  re- 
ported. The  number  of  descendants  re- 
ported added  to  31  children,  78  grand- 
children, and  32  great-grandchildren.  If 
you  add  to  these  the  living  offspring  of 
classmates  who  have  gone  along,  what  a 
nucleus  we  have  for  improving  the  stand- 
ards of  our  country! 

Jim  Shea  is  home  from  a  month  in  the 
hospital  and  is  recovering  slowly.  He  has 
difficulty  in  walking.  An  interesting  letter 
from  John  Beck  in  Florida  shows  he  is 
still  very  active.  Albert  Humphrey  is  in  a 
nursing  home  in  Middleboro  but  is  able  to 
get  around.  Ernest  (Nibs)  Taylor  writes  us 
long  letters  twice  a  year. 

Word  was  received  of  the  death  of  Mrs. 
James  (May)  Cunningham,  widow  of  the 
former  Tech  trustee.  She  had  written  sev- 
eral times  in  previous  years  that  she  and 
Jim  were  intensely  interested  in  Tech. 
Harrison  G.  Brown 
Secretary 

CLASS  OF  1917 

The  class  of  1917  met  for  its  55th  re- 
union, Friday  night,  June  9th,  at  the 
Worcester  Club.  A  social  hour  followed  by 
a  nice  dinner  were  enjoyed  by  all.  During 
the  evening  we  were  pleasantly  surprised 
by  a  visit  from  President  and  Mrs.  Hazzard 
and  Alumni  Secretary,  Stephen  Hebert. 

Those  present  at  the  dinner  were:  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Wentworth  Doolittle;  Alfred  W. 
Francis;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  William  H.  Green; 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Roland  E.  Greene;  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Robert  C.  Hanckel;  Charles  E.  Hey- 
wood  and  daughter;  Clyde  T.  Hubbard; 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Richard  D.  Lambert;  Major 
General  Kirke  B.  Lawton,  USA,  ret.;  Ralph 
Merritt;  Warren  Parks  and  son,  Russell,  '41 ; 
Glendon  M.  Pomeroy;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Henry 
W.  Sheldrick;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Russell  H. 
Smith;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Samuel  Thompson; 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Max  Tucker;  and  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Allen  D.  Wassail. 

Greetings  were  read  from  the  members 
of  the  class  who  were  not  able  to  attend. 

Saturday,  most  of  the  class  attended  the 
alumni  lunch  and  meeting  which  was  held 
in  Morgan  Hall. 

Russell  H.  Smith 

CLASS  OF  1922 

Several  fortunate  circumstances  com- 
bined to  make  the  50th  reunion  of  the 
Class  of  1922  the  best  ever  held  by  our 
class,  if  not  the  best  ever  held,  period.  First 
was  the  Institute's  decision  to  separate 
commencement  and  reunion  weekends; 
second  was  the  valuable  assistance  rend- 
ered by  Steve  Hebert  in  the  conception  and 
execution  of  the  program;  third  was  the 
Institute's  cooperation  in  making  their 
facilities  available  to  us;  and  last  was  the 
enthusiastic  response  of  the  members  of 
the  class. 

The  reunion  stretched  over  three  days, 
and    had  for  its   base   of  operations  the 


1922 


Yankee  Drummer  Inn  and  Motor  House  in 
Auburn.  Many  of  us  arrived  there  in  time 
for  lunch  on  Thursday,  June  8th,  and  spent 
the  afternoon  setting  up  headquarters, 
distributing  costume  hats  and  name  tags, 
playing  bridge  and  golf,  renewing  friend- 
ships, and  greeting  later  arrivals. 

By  the  time  we  had  travelled  by  bus 
(furnished  by  WPI)  to  join  the  Worcester- 
based  members  of  our  group  at  1  Drury 
Lane,  our  delegation  numbered  30  class- 
mates and  25  wives.  It  was  a  gala  reception 
and  cocktail  party,  hosted  by  George  and 
Jean  Hazzard,  both  qualified  candidates 
for  Doctor  of  Hospitality  degrees.  Then 
back  to  the  bus  for  a  five  minute  ride  in  the 
rain  to  Higgins  House  for  a  sumptuous 
repast  amidst  most  unusual  surroundings. 
After  the  meal,  President  Hazzard  gave  the 
class  advance  notice  of  the  Ellsworth 
Foundation  gift,  which  was  followed  by  a 
guided  tour  through  the  mansion  led  by 
Mrs.  Hazzard.  Our  faithful  bus  returned  us 
to  the  Yankee  Drummer,  and  everyone 
turned  in  early. 

Friday's  formal  activities  began  with  an- 
other bus  ride  to  Worcester  for  a  deluxe 
buffet  lunch  at  Morgan  Hall,  followed  by 
seminars  for  the  studious  on  the  WPI  plan, 
admissions  and  placements,  and  a  tour  of 
the  Worcester  Art  Museum  for  the  artistic. 
Our  official  reunion  banquet  was  held  at 
the  Yankee  Drummer  at  7  P.M.,  for  which 
we  mustered  47  classmates  and  35  wives, 
as  follows:  With  wives:  Abbe,  Aldrich, 
Barrington,  Batten,  Bennett,  Bingham, 
Brigham,  Brusnicki,  Carl  Carlson,  Clarkson, 
Colesworthy,  Cooney,  Russ  Cushing,  Ells- 
worth, Dick  Field,  Russ  Field,  Heffernan, 
Holden,  Bill  Howe,  Hurowitz,  Keith, 
Marston,  Meyer,  Page,  Parsons,  Pickwick, 
Richardson,  Russell,  Sholz,  Townsend, 
Turner,    Watchorn,   White,    Whitney,    and 


Wightman.  Without:  Alden,  Hadden,  Herr, 
Larson,  Lloyd,  Mason,  Murphy,  Parker, 
Schiller,  Snow,  Thayer,  and  Williams.  In 
addition,  Dick  Williamson  dropped  in  to 
say  "Hello",  and  Harold  Rice  with  his  wife 
joined  us  at  Worcester  on  Saturday. 
Howard  Carlson,  Red  Hyde,  and  George 
Walker  had  planned  to  be  present,  but  due 
to  unforeseen  circumstances  were  forced 
to  cancel. 

Preceding  the  banquet  class  pictures 
were  taken;  after  the  meal,  with  Pres.  Keith 
as  toastmaster,  Eddie  Sholz  gave  statistics 
on  our  50-year  gift  to  WPI,  and  Dean 
Grogan,  our  guest  of  the  evening  with  Mrs. 
Grogan,  spoke  briefly.  The  affair  concluded 
with  that  perennial  feature:  movies  of  past 
reunions. 

Saturday  at  Worcester,  after  our  induc- 
tion into  the  50-year  Associates,  we  as- 
sembled with  all  other  reunion  classes  at 
the  general  alumni  luncheon  in  Morgan 
Hall,  during  which  we  received  our  50- 
year  diplomas,  and  won  the  attendance 
award.  Pres.  Keith  received  the  Herbert  F. 
Taylor  Award  for  Outstanding  Service  to 
WPI,  and  later  delivered  the  class  message 
for  the  Class  of  1922. 

The  final  reunion  event  took  place  at  the 
top  of  Institute  Road,  where  a  ground- 
breaking ceremony  was  held,  symbolizing 
the  start  of  construction  of  the  Ellsworth 
Residence,  made  possible  by  a  gift  of 
$250,000  from  the  Ruth  and  Warren  Ells- 
worth Foundation.  Ground  was  actually 
broken,  by  our  classmate,  Warren,  at  the 
controls  of  a  bulldozer. 

Philip  H.  White,  Secretary 

CLASS  OF  1927 

From  a  prearranged  meeting  at  Alden 
Memorial  on  Friday,  June  9th,  about  half 
of  those  attending  our  45th  reunion  visited 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


23 


1927 

the  newer  buildings  on  campus.  Guided  by 
a  senior  student,  the  touring  members  were 
shown  these  fine  facilities,  which  for  most 
were  being  seen  for  the  first  time. 

Returning  to  Alden  they  joined  the  later 
arrivals  in  the  Music  Room,  where  a  Happy 
Hour  was  shortly  in  full  sway  with  24  mem- 
bers and  15  wives.  The  fun  of  trying  to 
remember  faces  was  made  more  confusing 
by  being  provided  with  a  dinner  menu  on 
which  was  a  list  of  names  and  the  caption 
"How  many  do  you  identify?" 

From  this  all  too  brief  and  pleasant 
gathering,  we  crossed  the  hall  to  the  Janet 
Earle  Room  to  enjoy  a  delicious  roast  beef 
dinner. 

That  the  "Admiral"  was  there,  smiling 
upon  us  from  his  painting,  seemed  most 
appropriate.  Captain  Earle  came  to  Tech 
while  we  were  students.  As  our  '27  year- 
book so  well  stated,  "this  man  of  action 
left  his  mark  of  achievement  on  the  life  of 
this  college."  Started  during  our  last  year, 
the  building  of  Sanford  Riley  Hall  was  the 
forerunner  of  the  expansion  program  we  so 
greatly  admire  today. 

With  class  officers  absent,  no  formal 
meeting  was  attempted.  Cliff  Fahlstrom, 
co-planner  with  Phil  MacArdle  of  the  45th 
reunion,  did  an  excellent  job  as  Master  of 
Ceremonies.  It  was  reported  that  of  the  87 
members  listed  in  the  last  Alumni  register, 
there  are  today  only  76  active  members. 
The  ranks  have  been  reduced  by  7  deaths 
and  4  whose  addresses  are  unknown  or 
inactive.  In  making  our  plans,  we  made 
contact  with  80  percent  of  our  members, 
36  of  whom  couldn't  make  it  because  of 
remote  distances,  conflicting  engagements, 
or  ill  health.  Cliff  then  asked  fof  a  moment 
of  silence  in  respect  for  those  who  can 
never  again  be  with  us,  with  particular 
reference  to  James  Rogers  and  Ellsworth 
Carpenter,  whom  we  lost  during  the  plan- 
ning of  our  45th. 

Of  those  who  wrote  advising  of  their  in- 
ability to  attend,  their  letters  and  comments 
were  read  at  the  dinner.  We  missed  them 
all,  but  were  happy  to  hear  that  God  willing 
most  of  them  planned  to  be  with  us  for  the 
50th. 


Cliff  called  the  roll  of  those  present  and 
each  responded  with  a  short  sketch  of  his 
activities,  numbers  of  children  and  grand- 
children, etc. 

Twenty-two  of  those  from  our  Friday 
festivities,  plus  three  that  joined  us  on 
Saturday  morning,  attended  the  Alumni 
luncheon  in  Morgan  Hall.  The  results  of 
this  reunion  can  best  be  summed  up  in  a 
quotation  from  Vic  Hill's  letter  just  received. 
It  reads  asfollows: 

"A  member  of  the  1 927  class  can  hardly 
return  to  WPI  without  being  greatly  im- 
pressed by  the  fantastic  expansion  of 
facilities  on  the  campus;  we  can  be 
proud  of  our  Alma  Mater.  A  great  debt 
of  gratitude  is  due  those  who,  over  the 
years,  have  built  WPI  to  its  present 
status.  I  have  the  greatest  respect  for 
Pres.  Hazzard  and  think  he  is  doing  a 
wonderful  job." 

Those  attending  included:  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Richard  E.  Bliven;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Edward  F. 
Cahalen;  C.  Sture  Carlson;  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Buell  S.  Dickinson;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Herbert 
P.  Dobie;  Clifford  I.  Fahlstrom;  Cecil  R. 
Furminger;  Albert  M.  Goodnow;  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Victor  E.  Hill;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  E.  Carl 
Hoglund;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Philip  A.  MacArdle; 
E.  I.  Merrill;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robert  L.  Parker; 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Nelson  E.  Parmelee;  Fred- 
erick C.  Pomeroy;  William  M.  Rauha;  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Carl  H.  Schwind;  Dr.  and  Mrs. 
Donald  S.  Searle;  James  M.  Simmons; 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Nathan  M.  Southwick;  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Howard  F.  Stephenson;  Thomas 
A.  Steward;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Emmett  A. 
Thrower;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Bernard  J.  Wahlin; 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Arthur  Manning;  and  Frank  E. 
Buxton,  '28,  who  arrived  on  Saturday. 

Philip  A.  MacArdle,  Co-chairman 

CLASS  OF  1932 

To  celebrate  our  40  years  out  of  Tech, 
the  Class  of  '32  returned  to  the  hill  on  June 
9.  During  the  afternoon  classmates  and 
their  wives  began  arriving,  some  to  renew 
old  friendships  on  the  golf  course,  some  to 
attend  the  informational  activities  at 
Gordon  Library,  and  others  to  view  ex- 
hibits at  the  Worcester  Art  Museum. 


1932 

Evening  found  our  group  of  54  gathered 
at  the  delightful  Higgins  House  for  banquet 
and  fellowship,  so  well  arranged  by  Bill 
Asp  and  Dave  Goldrosen.  We  were  honored 
to  have  with  us  for  a  portion  of  the  evening 
President  Hazzard,  who  brought  us  up  to 
date  on  new  activities  on  the  hill. 

At  the  alumni  luncheon  on  Saturday,  our 
class  initiated  the  40-year  gift  to  WPI  with 
a  substantial  sum,  especially  considering 
that  our  class  has  always  been  known  as 
the  depression  class. 

Paul  Nelson 

CLASS  OF  1937 

Nineteen  couples  were  on  hand  at  Tech 
for  the  35th  Reunion  of  the  Class  of  1 937 
on  Saturday,  June  10th.  President  Bill 
Carew  came  the  furthest  distance— from 
Wilmington,  Delaware — while  several  oth- 
ers made  the  trip  in  from  New  Jersey,  New 
York,  Connecticut,  and  elsewhere  around 
the  Commonwealth. 

Daytime  activities  included  the  tradi- 
tional class  picture,  special  Alumni  lunch- 
eon, ground  breaking  ceremonies  for  the 
new  Ellsworth  Residence  (dormitory)  and 
other  afternoon  festivities  (some  official 
and  others  not  quite  as  formal). 

In  the  evening,  we  gathered  in  the  Janet 
Earle  Room  (in  Alden  Memorial)  for  a 
spirited  social  hour,  followed  by  a  very 
delicious  roast  beef  dinner  in  the  adjoining 
Music  Room,  very  nicely  arranged  for  the 
occasion. 

In  line  with  the  relaxed  atmosphere  of  the 
reunion,  entertainment  consisted  of  noth- 
ing more  strenuous  than  the  reading  (with 
resulting  reminiscing)  of  interested  excerpts 
from  the  considerable  number  of  letters 
and  telegrams  received  from  classmates 
located  all  over  the  United  States  and  as 
far  away  as  New  Zealand  (Frank  Rollins). 

Also  we  were  honored  the  latter  part  of 
the  evening  by  the  presence  of  Steve 
Hebert  (Alumni  Secretary),  Jean  Hazzard 
and  her  husband  George  (President)  who 
chatted  informally  with  us  about  many 
aspects  of  life  on  and  off  the  Tech  campus 
these  days. 

Included  in  those  attending  were   Bill 


24 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


1937 

Carew,  Gordon  Crowther,  Chapin  Cutler, 
Mort  Fine,  Bill  Frawley,  Larry  Granger, 
Caleb  Hammond,  Fran  Harvey,  Wes  Hol- 
brook,  Ralph  Holmes,  Carl  Larson,  Dick 
Lyman,  Jim  Moore,  Bob  Powers,  Foster 
Powers,  Ray  Schuh,  Art  Schumer,  Paul 
Stone,  John  Sutliffe,  and  Bill  Worthley. 

With  this  nucleus  we  are  "off  and  run- 
ning" with  plans  for  our  Fortieth  in  1977. 
Gordon  Crowther,  Chairman 

CLASS  OF  1942 

The  class  of  1 942  held  its  thirtieth  re- 
union on  Friday  evening,  June  9,  1972.  It 
was  held  at  the  Mt.  Pleasant  Country  Club 
in  Boylston.  The  social  hour  with  fabulous 
hors  d'oeuvres  started  at  6  p.m.  followed 
by  dinner  at7:30. 

The  Al  Schwiegers  and  Ed  Higginbottom 
were  guests  of  the  class,  and  both  Al  and 
Ed  had  a  few  fine  words  to  say. 

Although  the  turnout  was  small,  every- 
one had  a  fine  time.  Those  present  were  the 
Bob  Aliens,  the  Curt  Amblers,  George 
Andreopoulos,  Ron  Borrup,  the  Bob 
Chaffes,  Hal  Crane,  Jim  Fernane,  the  Herb 
Goodmans,  the  Bob  Holdens,  the  Ed 
Jacobs,  Steve  Totti,  and  the  Warren  Zepps. 
Herbert  M.  Goodman,  Chairman 

CLASS  OF  1947 

Rearrangement  of  the  membership  of  the 
various  classes  immediately  following 
World  War  II   has  established  an  official 


membership  of  77  members  for  the  class  of 
1947.  Eleven  classmates  including  Bill 
Rice,  Carrol  Burtner,  Ed  Swierz,  Al  Glazer, 
Don  Thompson,  Sam  Ringel,  Ed  Lemieux, 
Norm  Feldman,  Ray  Laferriere,  Vince  Zike, 
and  John  Hambor  were  fortunate  to  be 
on  campus  for  the  reunion  activities. 

At  the  Alumni  Luncheon  John  Hambor 
presented  Dr.  Geo.  Hazzard  the  Class  Gift 
of  $7,035  establishing  "The  Student 
Scholarship  Fund  of  the  Class  of  1947." 
Later  in  the  afternoon  the  class  members 
had  a  delightful  time  at  the  Al  Glazer 
homestead.  Evening  festivities  included  a 
cocktail  hour  and  dinner  at  the  fabulous 
Higgins  Home.  Honored  guests  of  the 
class  were  Pres.  Hazzard  and  Mrs.  Hazzard, 
and  Coach  Charley  McNulty  and  Mrs.  Mc- 
Nulty. 

John  Hambor 

CLASS  OF  1957 

The  class  of  '57  began  an  active  1 5th  re- 
union weekend  with  a  cocktail  party  hosted 
by  Fred  and  Shirley  Barry  on  Friday  eve- 
ning, June  9th.  After  a  sparsely  populated 
class  picture  on  Saturday  morning,  a  class 
meeting  was  held  with  the  principal  topic 
of  discussion  being  our  25th  reunion  class 
gift  to  WPI.  Don  Rising  and  Bob  Yates 
presided  over  the  meeting.  It  was  agreed 
to  implement  a  ten-year  plan  to  raise  a  lump 
sum  to  be  donated  for  a  specific  purpose. 
Al     Papaioannou    suggested    the    motto 


1947 


1942 

"Twenty-five  for  the  Twenty-fifth"  with 
reference  to  a  twenty-five  dollar  annual 
donation  each  year  until  the  twenty-fifth 
reunion. 

After  the  alumni  luncheon  in  Morgan 
Hall,  the  afternoon  was  spent  touring  the 
new  campus,  visiting  local  friends,  or 
shopping  at  Spags!  Prize  winners  for  dis- 
tance travelled  to  attend  the  reunion  were 
George  Klimchak  from  Florida  and  George 
Prozzo  from  Indiana.  Most  exciting  job  had 
to  be  Don  Craig's.  He  is  flying  727's  for 
American  Airlines.  Some  class  members 
are  self-employed,  others  in  education,  and 
many  in  industry — all  doing  well! 

Saturday  evening  a  prime  rib  dinner  at 
Nick's  Colonial  Grille  was  followed  by  en- 
tertainment, dancing  and  socializing  in  the 
lounge.  Those  enjoying  the  evening  were: 
Don  and  Marcia  Rising,  Bob  and  Sue 
Yates,  Gerry  and  Cynthia  Finkle,  Al  and 
Valerie  Devault,  John  and  Deanna  At- 
chison, Paul  and  Marion  Kerrigan,  Bob 
and  Arlene  LeMay,  Bill  and  Ann  Rawstron, 
Herb  and  Mary  Hemenway,  Frad  and 
Shirley  Barry,  Al  and  Marcia  Papaioannou, 
Don  and  Nancy  Craig,  George  and  Ann 
Klimchak,  George  Prozzo,  and  Don  Berth. 
Alfred  E.  Barry,  Chairman 


1952 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


25 


\, 

! 

i^^^S 

■W  -  w^Hr- '  .^H 

WmM 

n  ^  J 

[fljLfmfPfc 

■psj  r .^  ».*Ttl 

I  Aj3 

jm  i"'  ,Bi 

BB^-JM^B  •  -    W'C 

1957 

CLASS  OF  1962 

The  tenth  anniversary  of  the  Class  of 
1962  graduation  was  observed  on  Satur- 
day, June  10,  with  relative  moderation. 
Possibly  a  better  choice  of  words  would  be 
that  the  occasion  was  met  with  a  great 
burst  of  apathy  by  the  class  majority. 
Fifteen  of  the  class  total  of  244  members 
attended  the  day's  proceedings. 

Fortunately  numbers  alone  don't  indicate 
the  success  of  an  occasion.  For  those  who 
were  present,  the  reunion  provided  good 
times  and  renewed  friendships.  Though 
most  came  from  Massachusetts,  Connec- 
ticut and  New  York,  Dave  and  Judy  Lyons 
drove  up  from  Virginia  to  attend. 


In  the  evening,  fourteen  couples  joined 
for  dinner  at  the  Holiday  Inn,  downtown 
Worcester.  At  dinner  and  during  the  accom- 
panying socializing,  the  whereabouts  and 
goings  on  of  each  was  learned.  The  even- 
ing was  highlighted  by  a  visit  from  Presi- 
dent and  Mrs.  George  Hazzard. 

Those  attending  included  Cliff  Engstrom, 
Jay  Fitzpatrick,  Rudy  Leistritz,  Dave  Lyons, 
Bill  MacDonald,  Pete  Martin,  Bob  Mc- 
intosh, Spence  Pooley,  Paul  Sharon,  John 
Szymanski,  Andy  Terwilleger,  Ed  Weber 
and  Dave  Woodman.  Verne  Viele,  who  was 
on  campus  during  the  day  with  his  family, 
was  unable  to  attend  the  dinner. 

Dick  DiBuono,  President 


1962 

CLASS  OF  1967 

After  a  cocktail  hour  at  the  Higgins 
House,  the  Class  of  '67  had  dinner  at 
Putnam  and  Thurston's. 

The  stragglers  then  proceeded  to  the 
Penthouse  for  dancing  'til  the  wee  hours  of 
the  morning. 

In  attendance  were  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Roger 
Binkerd,  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Ronald  Jolicoeur,  Mr. 
&  Mrs.  Paul  Kennedy,  Raymond  Fortin, 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  Frank  Manter,  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
John  Soulliere,  and  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Peter 
Tallman. 


* 

alii 

1* 

/ 

SP 
ft 
Poi 

mil 

yo 

/ 

fa 
list 
Cei 


ten 
In' 
and 

life 
van 
he: 
k 
mei 
Seii 


I 
Cor 

lit 


ol 

Pis: 
Glo 


26 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


COMPLETED  CAREERS 


WALTER  T.   GODDARD,  '03 

Walter  T.  Goddard  died  on  January  13, 
1972  following  a  long  illness. 

Born  on  January  19,  1880,  he  attended 
Webster  (Mass.)  High  School  and  gradu- 
ated as  an  electrical  engineer  from  WPI  in 
1903. 

After  working  as  a  graduate  assistant  at 
WPI,  he  joined  the  Locke  Insulator  Co.  in 
Victor,  N.Y.  Later  he  founded  the  Canadian 
Porcelain  Company,  Ltd.,  Hamilton,  On- 
tario, where  he  served  as  president  for  46 
years. 

Always  a  faithful  supporter  of  WPI,  Mr. 
Goddard  was  a  member  of  Sigma  XI  and 
also  belonged  to  AIEE  and  the  American 
Ceramic  Society. 

HAROLD   B.   LARNED,  '05 

Harold  B.  Larned,  89,  of  Glastonbury, 
Conn.,  passed  away  March  22,  1972. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester  in  1883  and 
graduated  from  WPI  in  1905  as  a  civil  en- 
gineer. For  47  years  he  was  employed  as  a 
structural  engineer  with  most  of  his  work 
being  centered  along  the  Eastern  Seaboard. 
In  1952  he  retired  from  United  Engineers 
and  Constructors  of  Philadelphia,  Pa.  A 
life  member  of  the  National  and  Pennsyl- 
vania Societies  of  Professional  Engineers, 
he  also  was  active  in  the  Darby  Creek  Joint 
Authority  for  Sewage  Disposal,  and  as  a 
member  of  the  Academy  of  Natural 
Sciences  and  the  Franklin  Institute  in 
Philadelphia. 

L.   BARRETT  CAMPBELL,  '07 

L.  Barrett  Campbell,  87,  of  Waterbury, 
Conn.,  died  November  24,  1971  following 
a  long  illness. 

Born  in  Bridgeport,  Conn.,  in  1884,  he 
graduated  from  Worcester  (Mass.)  Acad- 
emy and  later  studied  at  WPI. 

Mr.  Campbell,  a  life  member  of  ASME, 
worked  as  a  consulting  and  designing  en- 
gineer for  the  American  Chain  &  Cable  Co., 
Inc.,  for  43  years.  He  was  a  member  of 
Alpha  Tau  Omega  Fraternity. 

FRANK  A.   MARSTON,  '07 

A  past  president  of  the  American  Society 
of  Civil  Engineers,  Frank  A.  Marston, 
passed  away  on  February  22,  1972  in 
Gloucester,  Mass.  He  was  86  years  old. 


He  was  born  in  Worcester,  Mass.  He 
received  his  degree  from  WPI  in  civil  en- 
gineering in  1907.  That  same  year  he 
joined  the  Boston  engineering  firm  of 
Metcalf  and  Eddy.  He  was  a  partner  of  the 
firm  from  1  920  until  his  retirement  in  1  966. 
His  work  was  mainly  in  public  water  works 
and  sewerage  systems,  for  which  he  re- 
ceived wide  recognition  and  the  highest 
honors  of  his  profession.  In  1960  WPI 
awarded  him  an  honorary  Doctorate  of 
Engineering. 

Mr.  Marston  was  past  president  of  the 
Boston  Society  of  Civil  Engineers;  a  life 
member  of  the  New  England  Water  Works 
Association,  the  American  Water  Works 
Association,  and  the  American  Society  of 
Testing  Materials.  A  diplomate  of  the 
American  Academy  of  Environmental  En- 
gineers and  a  Registered  Professional 
Engineer  in  14  states,  he  served  as  chair- 
man of  the  board  of  engineers  for  the  Dis- 
trict of  Columbia. 

BRADFORD   B.   BINGHAM,  '08 

Bradford  B.  Bingham,  88,  pendulum 
designer,  passed  away  April  2  in  Athol, 
Mass. 

A  native  of  Willimantic,  Conn.,  he  grad- 
uated from  WPI  as  an  electrical  engineer  in 

1 908.  For  over  fifty  years  he  was  employed 
as  a  machine  designer  at  United  Twist 
Drill  Division,  UTD  Corp.,  in  Athol. 

In  1 964  he  received  national  recognition 
for  designing  a  version  of  a  Foucault 
pendulum  for  clocks  which  kept  time  with 
remarkable  accuracy. 

FRED   F.  CHAPMAN,  '09 

Fred  F.  Chapman,  85,  a  retired  assistant 
director  of  the  technical  division  of  the 
Du  Pont  Co.,  explosives  department,  died 
November  25,  1971  in  Wilmington,  Dela- 
ware. 

He  was  born  in  Westfield,  Mass.  After 
receiving  his  BS  in  chemistry  from  WPI  in 

1909,  he  joined  the  Du  Pont  Co.,  where 
he  remained  until  his  retirement  in  1951. 
His  duties  involved  process  work  on  chem- 
ical and  explosives  operations.  During 
World  War  II  he  was  involved  in  an  advisory 
capacity  in  the  development  of  explosives. 

Mr.  Chapman  was  a  member  of  Sigma 
Alpha  Epsilon  and  a  50-year  member  of 


the  American  Chemical  Society  and  of  the 
American  Institute  of  Chemical  Engineers. 

ELWIN    H.   KIDDER,  '09 

Elwin  H.  Kidder  died  January  2,  1972  in 
LaPorte,  Indiana. 

He  was  born  at  South  Wardsboro,  Vt. 
He  graduated  from  WPI  in  1909  as  a  civil 
engineer.  During  his  lifetime  he  worked 
with  the  Pennsylvania  Railroad,  the  St. 
Lawrence  Bridge  Co.,  and  Link-Belt  Co. 
In  1942  he  retired  from  his  duties  at  the 
American  Creosoting  Co.  in  Chicago. 

NORMAN    B.   POTTER,  '09 

Norman  B.  Potter,  85,  a  direct  de- 
scendant of  John  Brigham,  first  settler  of 
Northboro,  Mass.,  died  February  11,  in 
Marlboro,  Mass. 

Potter  began  his  banking  career  with 
the  Commonwealth  Trust  Co.  of  Boston. 
He  worked  40  years  for  the  Worcester 
County  National  Bank,  retiring  in  1952. 
He  also  served  as  Northboro  town  treas- 
urer and  a  director  of  the  Northboro  Na- 
tional Bank. 

ERNEST  W.    BISHOP,  '10 

Ernest  W.  Bishop  died  on  April  17  in 
Hamden,  Connecticut.  He  was  84. 

Born  in  Talladega,  Ala.,  on  October  14, 
1887,  he  later  studied  at  Mt.  Hermon.  In 
1 91 0  he  graduated  from  WPI  with  a  degree 
in  mechanical  engineering. 

After  working  for  the  American  Loco- 
motive Co.,  Schenectady,  N.Y.,  he  joined 
the  Western  Electric  Co.,  New  York  City, 
in  1917.  He  was  a  telephone  specialist  at 
the  time  of  his  retirement  in  1952. 

OTTO   H.   ESCHHOLZ.  '10 

Otto  H.  Eschholz  of  San  Marino,  Calif., 
passed  away  last  winter  at  the  age  of  82. 

He  graduated  from  WPI  in  1910  as  an 
electrical  engineer.  He  received  his  law 
degree  from  Duquesne  University  Law 
School  in  1929  and  was  later  admitted  to 
practice  before  the  Pennsylvania  Courts, 
U.S.  Supreme  Court,  and  U.S.  Patent 
Office. 

Mr.  Eschholz  was  employed  by  West- 
inghouse  Electric  and  Manufacturing  Com- 
pany from  1910  to  1951.  He  made  many 


"HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


27 


inventions  relating  to  arc  welding,  circuit 
breakers,  and  transformers.  Forty-eight 
patents  were  issued  in  his  name.  He  retired 
as  patent  department  manager  in  1951.  In 
1936  he  received  the  Westinghouse  Order 
of  Merit. 

He  was  active  in  the  Pittsburgh  Chapter 
of  the  Alumni  Association  and  a  faithful 
supporter  of  the  College. 

FRANK  W.  GREEN,  '10 

Frank  W.  Green  died  March  20  in  Clear- 
water, Florida.  He  was  85  years  old. 

Mr.  Green  was  born  in  Lye,  England. 
He  graduated  with  a  WPI  degree  in  me- 
chanical engineering  in  1910.  He  worked 
for  Technicolor  Motion  Picture  Co.,  Heald 
Machine  Co.,  and  Telechron,  Inc. 

DONALD    B.  WHEELER,  '10 

Donald  B.  Wheeler,  the  retired  president 
of  Shipmark  Co.,  Boston,  died  in  Glouces- 
ter, Massachusetts  on  December  27,  1 971 . 

He  was  born  in  Newtonville,  Mass.  He 
graduated  from  WPI  in  1 91 0  as  a  mechan- 
ical engineer.  He  was  with  Shipmark  for 
forty  years. 

F.   BERTRAM   CLEVELAND,  '12 

F.  Bertram  Cleveland,  83,  of  Barrington, 
Rhode  Island,  died  May  16,  following  a 
brief  illness. 

A  native  of  Woonsocket,  R.I.,  he  was  a 
member  of  Phi  Gamma  Delta  fraternity. 

For  thirty  years  he  was  the  owner  and 
proprietor  of  the  F.  B.  Cleveland  Rubber 
Company  in  Providence.  Later  he  was  a 
sales  representative  for  Barnes  Rubber  Co., 
Cranston. 

Mr.  Cleveland  was  a  past  president  of 
the  Rhode  Island  Chapter  of  the  Alumni 
Association. 

GEORGE   R.   BARKER,  '13 

George  R.  Barker,  80,  died  in  Lawrence, 
Mass.,  on  February  15  following  a  short 
illness. 

A  North  Andover  native,  he  graduated 
from  WPI  with  a  degree  in  electrical  en- 
gineering. He  was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma 
Kappa. 

For  more  than  50  years  he  operated  a 
dairy  and  produce  farm. 

A  member  of  the  New  England  Milk 
Producers  Association  since  1929,  he  was 
also  a  director  of  the  Essex  County  Co- 
operative Farming  Association. 

VINCENT  J.   MLEJNEK,  '13 

Vincent  J.  Mlejnek,  79,  died  February 
20  in  Worcester,  Mass. 

For  46  years  he  was  a  quality  control 
supervisor  for  the  Graton  &  Knight  Co.  of 
Worcester.  He  retired  15  years  ago. 

His  degree  was  in  chemical  engineering. 
He  was  a  50-year  member  of  the  American 
Chemical  Society  and  past  president  of  the 
American  Leather  Chemists  Association. 

GEORGE  A.  WIGHTMAN,   '13 
George   A.   Wightman   of    Bay   Village, 

Ohio,  died  December  24,  1971,  at  the  age 

of  80  years. 

He   was   born    in    Holyoke,    Mass.,   on 

June  6,  1891,  attended  Huntington  High 


School,  and  graduated  from  WPI  in  1913 
as  a  mechanical  engineer.  For  over  30 
years,  before  his  retirement  in  1 956,  he  was 
with  the  engineering  division  of  the  Asso- 
ciated Factory  Mutual  Fire  Insurance  Com- 
panies of  Boston.  A  registered  professional 
engineer  of  the  State  of  Ohio,  he  also 
served  in  World  War  I. 

BENJAMIN    B.   D'EWART,  '15 

Benjamin  B.  D'Ewart  passed  away  at  his 
home  in  Pasco,  Washington,  on  January 
30. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  graduated  as  a 
civil  engineer  from  WPI  in  1915.  He  was  a 
member  of  Phi  Gamma  Delta.  A  retired 
U.S.  Army  Lieutenant  Colonel,  he  was 
president  of  the  Franklin  Soil  and  Water 
Conservation  District  and  was  on  the  board 
of  directors  of  Bay  Bend  Electric  REA. 

ALFRED  W.   PRIDE,  '15 

Alfred  W.  Pride  passed  away  April  6, 
1972  in  Oakland,  Calif.,  at  the  age  of  78. 

For  37  years  he  was  with  the  Westing- 
house  Electric  Corporation.  In  1959  he 
retired  after  having  served  as  power 
transformer  commercial  engineer  and  di- 
vision representative  for  five  western  states. 

A  member  of  Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon  and 
Pi  Tau  Sigma,  he  was  also  a  California 
State  Professional  Engineer  and  a  Life 
Member  of  AIEE. 

WILFRED   D.   CHAPMAN,  '17 

Wilfred  D.  Chapman  of  Secane,  Pa., 
passed  away  recently  at  the  age  of  77 
years. 

After  studying  civil  engineering  at  WPI, 
he  accepted  a  position  with  the  Providence 
Water  Supply  Board.  He  retired  in  1958 
from  General  Electric  Company  in  Phil- 
adelphia, Pa. 

A  member  of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa,  he  was 
also  a  licensed  professional  engineer. 

STANLEY  G.   CHILSON,  '17 

The  official  police  photographer  for 
Franklin,  Mass.,  Stanley  G.  Chilson,  died 
March  17  in  Wrentham.  He  was  81  years 
old. 

After  attending  Dean  Academy  and  WPI, 
he  devoted  most  of  his  life  to  photography. 
He  was  official  fire  photographer  in  area 
towns,  and  his  films  are  well  known  to  the 
Boston  Firefighters  Association. 

RAYMOND   H.   SHAW,   '18 

Raymond  H.  Shaw,  77,  passed  away 
April  26,  in  Rutland,  Vermont. 

From  1916  until  his  retirement  in  1959, 
he  worked  as  a  senior  toll  testman  for  New 
England  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Co. 
His  interest  in  electronics  led  to  his  being 
one  of  the  several  East  Coast  crystal  radio 
operators  who  heard  the  cries  for  assistance 
from  the  ocean  liner  Titanic,  which  struck 
an  iceberg  off  the  coast  of  Newfoundland 
and  ultimately  sank  in  April  of  1912. 

EDWARD   J.    P.    FISHER,   '21 

Edward  J.    P.    Fisher  passed   away  on 

January  26,  1972  in  Riverside,  California. 

Professor    Fisher   was    born    in    Berlin, 


Germany  and  graduated  as  a  chemical  en- 
gineer from  WPI  in  1921. 

He  was  the  recipient  of  the  Wire  Asso- 
ciation Award  in  1 933  and  was  a  practicing 
metallurgical  consulting  engineer.  During 
his  22  years  with  the  Youngstown  Uni- 
versity (Ohio)  he  established  the  depart- 
ment of  metallurgical  engineering  and  was 
chairman  from  its  inception.  A  member  of 
Lambda  Chi  Alpha,  Prof.  Fisher  was  also 
an  active  member  of  the  Wire  Association, 
American  Society  for  Metals,  and  the 
American  Ordnance  Association. 

RALPH   G.   NOURSE,  '22 

Ralph  G.  Nourse  of  Providence,  Rhode 
Island,  passed  away  January  3  after  an 
extended  illness. 

Mr.  Nourse,  who  was  retired,  was  the 
former  owner  of  the  Carter  Insulation  Co., 
Providence. 

DANA  S.  GREENLAW,  '24 

Dana  S.  Greenlaw,  72,  passed  away  on 
April  1  in  St.  Petersburg,  Fla. 

An  electrical  engineering  graduate  of 
WPI,  he  was  a  former  district  manager  with 
Sonotone  Corp. 

Shortly  before  his  death,  Mr.  Greenlaw 
had  written  a  book  on  printing  for  amateurs. 
He  set  all  the  type  and  made  all  the  illus- 
trations himself,  and  privately  printed  it  on 
his  own  press  in  an  edition  of  30  copies. 
One  of  those  30  is  now  in  the  WPI  Library. 

JOHN    N.  STYFFE,  '24 

John  N.  Styffe,  the  retired  Director  of 
Building  for  S.  H.  Kress  &  Co.,  New  York 
City,  died  in  February  at  the  age  of  72. 

His  degree  in  civil  engineering  from 
WPI  led  him  to  jobs  with  Eastern  Bridge 
and  Structural  Co.,  Worcester;  Scofield 
Engineering  Co.,  Los  Angeles,  Calif.;  Aber- 
thaw  Construction  Co.,  Boston;  and  Post 
&  McCord,  New  York.  He  retired  in  1959. 

Mr.  Styffe,  who  was  active  as  a  WPI 
Alumni  Council  representative,  and  former 
treasurer  of  the  New  York  Chapter,  was  a 
member  of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa  Fraternity  and 
a  corporate  member  of  the  American  In- 
stitute of  Architects. 

VICTOR   CARADONNA,   '25 

Victor  Caradonna,  70,  passed  away  on 
February  14,  1972  in  Toms  River,  N.J. 

After  graduation  from  WPI  he  joined  the 
Consolidated  Edison  Co.,  New  York  City, 
where  he  worked  until  his  retirement.  Dur- 
ing World  War  II  he  served  in  the  Navy 
Engineer  Corps  in  Africa  and  Italy. 

ELLSWORTH    B.   CARPENTER,  '27 
Ellsworth    B.    Carpenter,    67,    a    retired 
railroad  supply  executive,  died  April  19  in 
Kirkwood,  Mo.,  after  a  long  illness. 

From  1  927  until  1  959  he  was  associated 
with  ACF  Industries  (formerly  American 
Car  &  Foundry  Co.)  as  vice  president  in 
charge  of  eastern  region  sales.  He  then 
joined  Alco  Products,  Inc.  (American 
Locomotive  Co.)  as  sales  manager  of  the 
spring  and  forge  division  until  his  retire- 
ment in  1 970.  Mr.  Carpenter  was  also  vice 
president  and  director  of  Utility  Service 
and  Maintenance,  Inc.,  Clayton,  Mo. 


28 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


JAMES   C.    ROGERS.  '27 

James  C.  Rogers,  the  former  superin- 
tendent— fire  training  for  the  Vocational 
Educational  and  Extension  Board,  Nassau 
County,  New  York,  died  March  18,  1972. 

He  was  born  in  Webster,  Mass.  His 
WPI  degree  was  in  mechanical  engineering. 
Mr.  Rogers  served  Nassau  County  in  a 
variety  of  positions  for  many  years.  Previ- 
ously he  was  a  plant  engineer  for  the  New 
York  Telephone  Co.,  and  a  designer  for  the 
Curtis  Aeroplane  Co. 

A  member  of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa,  he  also 
belonged  to  the  National  Fire  Protection 
Association. 

JOHN    F.  WOOD,   '27 

John  F.  Wood  of  Newton  Center,  Mass., 
passed  away  suddenly  December  26, 1 971 . 

An  electrical  engineering  graduate,  he 
worked  as  a  financial  analyst  with  Sheraton 
Corp.  of  America,  Investment  Trust  of 
Boston,  and  ITB  Management  Corp., 
Boston. 

He  was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa 
Fraternity. 

DWIGHT  E.  JONES,  '28 

Dwight  E.  Jones,  67,  a  former  WPI 
trustee  and  retired  vice  president  of  the 
Jones  Division  of  Beloit  Corp.,  Pittsfield, 
Mass.,  died  April  26,  1972  in  Arcadia, 
California. 

Mi.  Jones  was  born  in  Otis,  Mass. 
During  his  years  at  WPI  he  worked  sum- 
mers at  the  Jones  paper  machinery  mill. 
After  he  received  his  degree  in  mechanical 
engineering,  he  was  assigned  to  special 
cost  analysis  work.  Working  his  way  up  the 
ladder,  he  became  chief  engineer  and  di- 
rector in  1939.  In  1953  he  was  made  vice 
president  and  in  1956,  he  was  elevated  to 
executive  vice  president. 

He  was  issued  1 5  patents  on  ideas  he 
developed  for  improvements  in  equipment 
manufactured  by  the  company.  He  wrote 
a  number  of  technical  papers  and  a  history 
of  the  Jones  company. 

Active  in  civic  affairs,  he  was  the  former 
chairman  of  the  Pittsfield  Sewer  Com- 
mission; director  and  president  of  the 
YMCA;  director  of  the  Girls  Club;  and  past 
president  of  the  Y  Men's  Club.  He  also 
belonged  to  the  Kiwanis  and  Rotary  Clubs. 
In  1  959  he  received  the  annual  civic  award 
of  the  South  Congregational  Church 
Brotherhood.  Professionally  he  was  a 
member  of  ASME,TAPPI,Tau  Beta  Pi,  and 
Sigma  XI.  Last  winter  he  was  honored  by 
being  elected  a  WPI  Trustee  Emeritus  in 
recognition  of  his  active  service  on  the 
Board  from  1956  to  1966. 

HAROLD   L.   PARTRIDGE,  '28 

Harold  L.  Partridge,  66,  who  recently 
retired  as  chief  chemical  engineer  at 
Picatinny  Arsenal,  Dover,  N.J.,  died  April 
25,  1972  in  Newton,  New  Jersey. 

He  graduated  from  WPI  as  a  chemical 
engineer. 

Prior  to  his  association  with  the  Pica- 
tinny  Arsenal,  he  had  been  located  at 
various  arsenals  and  chemical  installations 
at  Washington,  Pa.,  Weldon  Springs,  Mo., 
and  Tamaqua,  Pa. 

HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


ALLEN    HASTINGS,  '29 

Allen  Hastings,  67,  died  May  6  at  his 
home  in  East  Douglas,  Massachusetts. 

Mr.  Hastings  was  a  design  engineer  at 
Collins  Brothers  Machine  Co.,  Pawtucket, 
R.I. 

LOTHAR  A.  SONTAG,  '29 

Lothar  A.  Sontag  died  April  17,  1972  in 
Tonawanda,  New  York.  He  was  64  years 
old. 

Born  in  Clinton,  Mass.,  he  graduated 
from  WPI  as  a  chemical  engineer.  For 
many  years  he  was  with  Hooker  Chemical 
Corporation,  Durez  Plastics  Division,  North 
Tonawanda,  N.Y.  A  senior  research  scien- 
tist, he  was  credited  with  making  major 
contributions  to  the  success  and  growth 
of  the  plastics  industry.  A  holder  of  six 
patents  issued  to  Durez,  he  produced  the 
first  mobilator,  a  patented  device  for  ac- 
curately measuring  critical  flow  of  phenolic 
resin  materials  in  molding  operations.  He 
also  developed  the  "cup  test"  for  measur- 
ing the  flow  or  plasticity  of  molding  com- 
pounds, a  test  that  was  adopted  for  the 
industry  by  the  American  Society  for  Test- 
ing Materials  and  which  is  still  a  standard. 

Mr.  Sontag  retired  in  1970.  He  was  a 
member  of  Sigma  Xi,  ACS,  AIC,  ASTM  and 
the  Masonic  Order.  Active  in  the  Alumni 
Association,  he  was  formerly  president  of 
the  Western  New  York  Chapter  and  was 
also  an  Alumni  Council  delegate. 

WARREN   C.  WHITTUM,  '30 

Warren  C.  Whittum,  former  president  of 
the  WPI  Alumni  Association  and  a  WPI 
trustee,  passed  away  February  1 7,  in  Derby, 
Conn.  He  was  63  years  of  age. 

Mr.  Whittum  was  born  Dec.  20,  1908 
in  Worcester,  Mass.  He  attended  North 
High  School  and  graduated  from  WPI  in 
1  930  as  a  civil  engineer. 

Until  retiring  several  years  ago,  he  had 
been  employed  as  director  of  engineering 
development  for  the  Farrel  Co.,  Ansonia, 
Conn.,  and  later  as  director  of  development 
and  research  for  the  City  of  Ansonia. 

Mr.  Whittum  was  past  president  of  the 
Ansonia  Community  Chest,  the  Ansonia 
Rotary  Club  and  YMCA,  and  the  Housa- 
tonic  Council  of  the  Boy  Scouts  of  America. 
He  was  a  director  of  the  Ansonia  Water  Co. 
and  the  Savings  Bank  of  Ansonia.  He  was 
also  an  honorary  trustee  of  Griffin  Hospital 
in  Derby,  a  member  of  the  Graduate  Club 
of  New  Haven,  Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon,  Tau 
Beta  Pi,  and  Sigma  XI. 

CLARENCE  W.  ASHCROFT,  '41 

Clarence  W.  Ashcroft  of  Massapequa, 
L.I.,  New  York,  died  December  25,  1971. 

Born  in  Lynn,  Mass.  on  November  2, 
1918,  he  graduated  from  Tilton  (N.H.) 
Academy  and  later  attended  WPI. 

He  was  formerly  with  the  Prebuilt 
Company. 

CAMERON    F.   CAMPBELL,  '48 

Cameron  F.  Campbell  of  Elizabethtown, 
Pa.,  passed  away  January  6,  at  the  age  of 
44  years. 

Mr.  Campbell,  an  associate  member  of 
AIEE  and  AISE,  was  an  electrical  engineer 


at  the  Naval  Ship  Engineering  Center, 
Mechanicsburg  Division,  Standardization 
Branch,  Mechanicsburg,  Pa. 

GORDON    E.   HALL,  '48 

Gordon  E.  Hall  of  Barrington,  Rhode 
Island,  passed  away  April  14  at  the  age  of 
50. 

He  was  chairman  of  the  mathematics 
department  at  St.  Andrews  School,  Bar- 
rington. Previously  he  had  been  a  resident 
master  of  Laurelcrest  Preparatory  School, 
Bristol,  and  the  owner-director  of  Creative 
Services,  a  commercial  art  agency  in 
Hartford.  He  had  also  been  with  The  Fac- 
tory Insurance  Association. 

A  member  of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa  and  Pi 
Delta  Epsilon,  he  also  had  served  as 
councilman  for  the  Town  of  Paramus,  N.J., 
and  on  the  Mayor's  Committee  for  Youth 
in  Hartford. 

THOMAS  J.    McNAMARA,  '50 

Thomas  J.  McNamara  passed  away  on 
November  26,  1971  at  Memorial  Hospital 
in  Worcester,  Mass.  He  was  42  years  old. 

Born  in  Worcester,  he  graduated  from 
WPI  with  a  degree  in  electrical  engineering. 

Mr.  McNamara,  a  member  of  Phi  Kappa 
Theta  and  Eta  Kappa  Nu,  was  a  sales  en- 
gineer for  Machinery  Electrification,  North- 
boro,  Mass. 

SIDNEY  J.   LAINER,  '58 

Sidney  J.  Lainer,  43,  died  in  Long- 
meadow,  Massachusetts  on  February  9. 

He  was  an  electronics  engineer  at 
Hamilton  Standard  and  later  at  the  Spring- 
field (Mass.)  Armory  for  six  years. 

EMERY  G.  SWARTZ,  SIM   '67 

Emery  G.  Swartz,  59,  manager  of  manu- 
facturing engineering  for  Crompton  & 
Knowles  Corp.,  Burlington,  North  Carolina, 
died  April  4, 1972. 

He  was  born  in  Pennsylvania  and  was 
educated  at  the  University  of  Kansas, 
Pennsylvania  State  University,  Swarth- 
more  College,  and  WPI's  School  of  In- 
dustrial Management. 

Until  last  fall  he  was  with  Crompton  & 
Knowles  in  Worcester  where  he  began  as 
chief  tool  engineer  in  1961.  Previously  he 
was  with  Curtiss-Wright  Research  Di- 
vision, Westinghouse  Aviation  Gas  Turbine 
Experimental  Division,  and  Westinghouse 
Electric  Corporation's  Aviation  Gas  Turbine 
and  Steam  Turbine  Divisions. 


29 


YOUR  CLASS  AND  OTHERS 


NOTICE! 

Items  appearing  in  Completed  Careers 
and  Your  Class  and  Others  are  based  on 
information  received  at  the  Alumni  Office 
by  June  1 ,  1 972.  Deadline  for  the  October 
issue  is  August  1. 


1908 

"Although  they  are  not  as  noisy  as  they 
used  to  be,  the  Class  of  1908  claims  they 
have  not  reached  the  point  where  they  can 
be  placed  in  the  category  of  extinct  species 
of  Techmen,"  writes  DONALD  D.  SI- 
MON DS,  secretary.  "There  are  only  1 6  of  us 
now  left,  including  ELLIOTT  A.  ALLEN, 
who  for  years  has  been  listed  in  the  Alumni 
Directory  as  'address  unknown,'  "  he  con- 
tinues. "1 908  is  getting  nearer  the  front  of 
the  Directory  each  year,  but  that  doesn't 
bother  us  for  we  were  always  up  front." 

Every  Sunday  afternoon  for  the  past  six 
years  Don  Simonds  has  been  calling  on 
HERBERT  P.  SAWTELL  at  the  Lincoln 
Nursing  Home,  299  Lincoln  St.,  Worcester, 
Mass.  01605.  (He  admits  that  perhaps  his 
attendance  there  has  been  more  regular 
than  at  church.)  Don  says  Herb  would 
greatly  appreciate  receiving  a  card  or  letter 
from  his  classmates  even  though  a  stiff 
hand  would  prevent  his  writing  a  reply. 
Herb  spends  most  of  his  days  in  a  wheel- 
chair solving  crossword  puzzles,  reading 
and  listening  to  the  radio. 

RICHMOND  W.  SMITH,  who  had  seven 
children,  now  has  twenty  grandchildren 
and  eight  great-grandchildren.  "Can  any 
other  class  compete  with  these  figures?" 
Don  asks. 

1910 

F.  LELAND  HEWES  writes  that  he  and 
his  wife  Mildred  are  kept  busy  sitting  with 
grandchildren  and  great-grandchildren. 
The  latest  addition  to  his  family  is  a  great- 
grandson,  David  Leland  Hanket,  born  in 
Newton,  Mass.  in  May  of  1971.  Fred  says 
he  still  drives  but  tires  after  200  miles. 
After  a  200-mile  drive,  who  doesn't?  .  .  . 
"HAP"  MARTIN  has  reported  to  class 
secretary  CHARLES  E.  BARNEY  that  he  is 
no  longer  called  "Hap" — now  it's  "Jerry." 
However  he  will  always  be  "Happy" 
Martin  to  1910  men. 


1912 

Through  Mrs.  HERBERT  F.  TAYLOR  we 
have  learned  of  the  death  of  Mrs.  JAMES 
W.  CUNNINGHAM  on  February  27,  1972 
in  North  Carolina.  Mr.  Cunningham,  who 
passed  away  in  1 961 ,  was  president  of  the 
Alumni  Association  from  1941  to  1943 
and  a  member  of  the  board  of  trustees  from 
1945  to  1955. 

1914 

WILLIAM  H.  MELLEN,  under  the  spon- 
sorship of  the  National  Huguenot  Society, 
will  take  a  six-week  jaunt  through  England 
and  France  this  fall — and  all  because  he  has 
devoted  his  lifetime  to  tracing  his  family 
tree.  During  his  lifetime  search  he  has  dis- 
covered that  he  is  a  descendant  of  the 
signers  of  the  Magna  Charta  in  1215, 
William  the  Conqueror,  Charlemagne,  and 
21  American  patriots  indluding  John  Alden 
of  the  Mayflower  and  colonial  clergyman 
Roger  Williams.  During  his  fall  trip  he  hopes 
"to  catch  up  with  some  loose  ends  and  fill 
in  the  gaps  in  the  family  tree." 

1921 

After  wintering  in  Palm  Beach,  Fla., 
EARL  B.  PICKERING  has  returned  to  his 
home  on  Old  Gibson  Rd.,  New  Ipswich, 
N.H. 

1923 

ERWIN  H.  MATTSON  has  retired  as 
manager  of  the  Union  Furniture  Co., 
Worcester.  .  .  .  ALBERT  H.  PENDLETON 
has  retired  as  a  partner  of  Pendleton,  Neu- 
man,  Williams  &  Anderson,  Chicago,  III. 
He  will  continue  in  active  practice  as 
counsel  to  the  firm.  .  .  .  After  44  years  of 
service,  JOHN  H.  TSUI  has  retired  from 
his  duties  at  Westinghouse  Electric  Corp., 
Sharon,  Pa. 

1924 

EDWARD  H.  GOODRICH  has  been 
awarded  the  first  Red  Shield  Award  ever 
presented  by  the  Bristol  (Conn.)  Salvation 
Army.  Mr.  Goodrich,  who  retired  in  1 965  as 
the  attorney  in  charge  of  the  Bristol  office  of 
General  Motors  patent  section,  has  been 
active  in  working  with  the  Salvation  Army 
Advisory  Board.  The  Red  Shield  Award  is 
presented  to  an  "outstanding  member  of 
the  community  in  recognition  of  faithful 
and  efficient  leadership."  Mr.  Goodrich 
has  also  served  the  Chamber  of  Commerce; 
Clock  Museum;  Kiwanis  Club  (as  president 
and  secretary);  the  Boy  Scouts  (for  which 


he  received  the  Silver  Beaver  Award);  and 
the  First  Congregational  Church  (as  deacon 
and  past  president  of  the  Men's  Service 
Club). 

1926 

CHARLES  B.  HARDY,  superintendent 
of  the  Worcester  Bureau  of  Water  and  a 
deputy  commissioner  in  the  Dept.  of  Public 
Works,  retired  Aug.  1.  He  has  been  super- 
intendent since  1942  and  was  named  a 
DPW  deputy  two  years  ago.  He  joined 
the  Worcester  DPW  in  1930  after  having 
served  1 2  years  with  the  Bureau  of  Sewers. 
City  Manager  McGrath  said  that  Hardy 
"has  been  a  credit  to  the  city — He  has 
an  established  reputation  as  one  of  the 
best  water  engineers  in  the  state."  .  .  . 
CHARLES  M.  HEALEY,  JR.,  has  been 
presented  the  Harry  J.  Graham  Memorial 
Award  in  appreciation  of  his  devotion  to 
the  purchasing  profession  by  the  Pur- 
chasing Management  Association  of  Bos- 
ton. Healey,  who  is  currently  the  executive 
director  of  the  Holyoke  Taxpayers  Asso- 
ciation, was  the  Springfield  (Mass.)  Pur- 
chasing Agent  for  22  years.  He  is  the  first 
municipal  purchasing  official  to  receive 
the  Graham  Award  and  is  also  the  first 
person  outside  the  Boston  area  to  be 
named.  In  1967  he  won  the  William 
Pynchon  Award  for  distinguished  civic 
service  while  the  previous  year  he  received 
the  Boy  Scout  Silver  Antelope  Award.  He 
was  the  first  Scouter  in  the  U.S.A.  to  re- 
ceive the  St.  George  Cross,  the  highest 
religious  award  the  Catholic  Church  be- 
stows on  a  Scout.  .  .  .  C.  HAROLD 
NORDSTROM,  retired  as  staff  director  of 
planning  and  control  in  the  government 
products  group  of  Avco  Corporation,  is 
now  the  permanent  chairman  of  the  Massa- 
chusetts Business  Task  Force  for  School 
Management,  Inc.  The  Task  Force,  which 
is  made  up  of  33  top  business  executives, 
has  studied  the  business  aspects  of  more 
than  200  school  departments,  including 
Worcester,  on  a  voluntary  basis.  Mr. 
Nordstrom,  as  chairman,  is  convinced  that 
the  principal  answer  to  soaring  public 
school  costs  lies  in  the  adoption  of  modern 
business  techniques  by  school  adminis- 
trations. 

1929 

IRVING  H.  CAMPBELL,  formerly  with 

the   U.   S.   Envelope  Co.,  Worcester,   has 

retired.    .    .    .    STEPHEN    D.    DONAHUE, 

business    and     financial     editor    of     the 


30 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Who  says  you  have  to  be  a  lawyer  or  a 
political  scientist  in  order  to  be  a  winner 
in  politics? 

If  David  F.  Emery,  EE  '70,  had  believed 
that  old  chestnut,  he  wouldn't  have  run 
for  a  seat  in  the  Maine  State  House  of 
Representatives — so,  of  course,  he  couldn't 
have  won.  But  he  did  run  and  he  did  win 
after  defeating  a  22-year  veteran  incumbent 
in  the  primaries  by  the  amazing  margin  of 
nearly  2  to  1. 

Dave,  a  communications  equipment  en- 
gineer, has  been  involved  in  Republican 
politics  in  his  home  town  of  Rockland  since 
he  was  15.  In  1968  he  attended  the  Re- 
publican convention  in  Miami. 

Now  a  duly  elected  representative,  he  is 


especially  interested  in  the  problem  of 
state  property  taxes  and  has  done  much 
research  in  preparation  for  his  presentation 
next  year  of  a  bill  to  revamp  the  present 
system. 

Already  with  an  eye  on  the  future,  he 
plans  to  campaign  again  next  term,  and  if 
reelected  he  hopes  to  run  for  the  position 
of  house  majority  leader.  If  all  goes  well  in 
this  venture,  he  would  be  pleased  to  try 
for  a  U.S.  House  seat  in  1974. 

David  Emery's  political  future  appears 
to  be  bright,  indeed. 

Another  EE,  Edwin  F.  Nesman,  '55, 
currently  a  staff  engineer  at  EG  &  G,  Inc., 
Bedford,  Mass.,  was  recently  elected  to  the 
Bolton  School  Committee.  A  member  of 
the  Bolton  Citizens  Association  for  three 
years  and  chairman  for  the  past  two,  he 
also  served  as  financial  secretary  of  the 
school  building  committee  during  the  con- 
struction phase  of  a  one-million  dollar 
addition  to  the  Emerson  School. 

A  former  design  engineer  for  the  Gen- 
eral Electric  Company,  high  school  science 
teacher,  and  present  director  of  science  for 
the  Braintree  (Mass.)  Public  Schools,  was 
a  successful  candidate  for  a  seat  on  the 


Georgetown  School  Committee  last  spring. 
Dr.  Charles  A.  Woodman,  PH,  '48,  the 
newly  elected  committee  member,  believes 
that  local  control  of  the  schools  should  be 
preserved  to  the  fullest  extent  permitted  by 
law  and  that  "we  must  maintain  a  balance 
between  desirable  educational  programs 
and  facilities  and  the  ability  of  the  town  to 
pay  for  them." 

Paul  W.  Snyder,  Jr.,  '53,  has  been  elected 
to  the  Pitman  (N.J.)  Board  of  Education. 
After  the  election  he  said,  "We  will  try  to 
do  what  we  can  to  provide  the  best  possible 
education  within  the  limits  of  our  tax 
capabilities."  Paul  is  with  Mobil  Corp., 
Paulsboro,  N.J.,  as  R  &  D  manager. 

In  the  November  elections  Marcus  A. 
Rhodes,  Jr.,  ME, '40,  treasurer  and  assistant 
manager  of  M.  M.  Rhodes  &  Sons,  Taun- 
ton, Mass.,  won  his  6th  term  on  the  Taunton 
School  Committee,  while  antiques  dealer, 
Sturgis  A.  Sobin,  '48,  won  his  first  full 
term  as  Mayor  of  Ansonia,  Conn. 

So,  a  growing  number  of  WPI  men  are 
channeling  their  lives  into  public  service 
and  meeting  a  variety  of  challenges.  They 
are  winners — in  every  sense  of  the  word. 


Worcester  Evening  Gazette,  has  retired 
after  more  than  40  years  as  a  reporter  and 
editor.  While  he  was  a  student  at  WPI  he 
began  his  newspaper  career  as  a  campus 
correspondent  for  the  Worcester  Telegram. 
In  1931  he  accepted  a  full-time  reporting 
job  with  the  Evening  Gazette.  While  serving 
as  city  editor,  his  home  was  destroyed  by 
the  1 953  Worcester  tornado.  The  next  day 
he  wrote  a  first-person  account  of  his  im- 
pressions of  the  disaster  which  won  second 
prize  in  the  New  England  Associated  Press 
News  Executive  Association  contest.  In 
1 959  he  was  awarded  the  certificate  of 
recognition  for  the  Continental  Air  Com- 
mand for  his  services  in  the  Air  Force 
Reserve,  from  which  he  retired  with  the 
rank  of  colonel  in  1967.  Mr.  Donahue  is 
Director  of  the  WPI  News  Bureau.  ...  J. 
KENDALL  FULLERTON  has  retired  from 
his  position  as  eastern  sales  manager  for 
the  Simonds  Saw  &  Steel  Division,  Wallace 
Murray  Corp.  .  .  .  GEORGE  V.  KENNEDY, 
former  manager  of  the  Massachusetts 
Electric  Co.  Division  in  Leominster,  was 
honored  at  a  retirement  dinner  given  in 
Shirley  in  March  following  his  43  years 
of  service  with  the  company.  The  225 
persons  present  at  the  testimonial  dinner 
saw  him  presented  with  a  chain  saw  from 
his  associates,  a  citation  from  the  state 
House  of  Representatives  and  a  plaque 
given  in  recognition  of  his  wide  range  of 
community  service  from  the  Mass.  Dept. 

of  Commerce EDWARD  E.  LANE  works 

as  regional  manager  for  NAPCO  Graphic 
Arts,  Inc.,  Milwaukee,  Wis. 

1930 

HERBERT  W.  DAVIS  has  retired  as  vice 
president,  research.  Triumph  Machinery 
Co.,  Hackettstown,  N.J.  Now  he  serves  as 
vice  president,  product  development,  Brunt 


Equipment  Co.,  Mt.  Holly,  N.J ALLAN 

L.  HALL  reports  that  he  has  retired  after 
32  years  with  the  U.S.  Post  Office  Dept., 
Portsmouth,  N.H. . . .  DANIEL  S.  HORGAN, 
SR.,  chief  engineer  of  the  (Mass.)  State 
Department  of  Public  Works,  was  the  key- 
note speaker  at  the  March  testimonial  held 
in  Framingham  for  retired  DPW  Com- 
missioner, Harry  P.  Loftus.  Horgan,  a 
personal  associate  of  Loftus  for  over  25 
years,  has  served  42  years  with  the  Com- 
monwealth since  graduating  from  WPI. 
Recently  he  received  the  seventh  annual 
Booster  Award  given  by  the  Auburn 
(Mass.)  Chamber  of  Commerce.  The 
award  is  presented  to  an  Auburn  resident 
who  has  given  outstanding  service  to  the 
community.  Horgan  was  active  in  Boy 
Scouting  for  over  30  years.  In  1947  he  be- 
came the  first  president  of  the  Auburn  High 
School  PTA.  He  has  served  as  a  commis- 
sioner of  the  Auburn  Water  District  and  on 
the  local  Board  of  Appeals  .  .  .  JOHN  J. 
LYONS  is  the  new  deputy  chief  engineer 
for  highway  maintenance  for  the  Mass. 
Dept.  of  Public  Works.  He  will  be  respon- 
sible for  the  maintenance  of  all  state  high- 
ways and  bridges,  including  snow  removal, 
roadside  development,  signs,  and  signal- 
ling, as  well  as  procurement  and  upkeep 
of  highway  equipment.  A  veteran  of  43 
years  with  the  DPW,  he  has  been  serving 
as  the  department's  research  and  materials 
engineer.  ...WARREN  R.  PURCELL  was  a 
staff  member  at  the  17th  Annual  Practical 
Statistical  Engineering  Institute  held  in 
June  at  The  University  of  Connecticut, 
Storrs.  Purcell  has  been  a  factory  engineer, 
quality  control  supervisor,  and  quality 
control  manager  for  the  Brown  Company. 
Until  recently  a  private  consultant,  he  is 
now  chief  of  Reliability  Engineering  and 
Quality  Control  for  Raytheon. 


1932 

Vice  Admiral  FRANCIS  J.  BLOUIN, 
US  Navy  (ret.),  has  been  chosen  Grand 
Marshall  for  the  Northbridge  (Mass.)  Bi- 
centennial Parade  slated  for  July  16. 
Admiral  Blouin,  during  36  years  of  com- 
missioned service,  saw  duty  with  the  Chief 
of  Naval  Personnel;  Commander  in  Chief, 
U.  S.  Pacific  Fleet;  Chief  of  Naval  Opera- 
tions; and  with  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff. 
In  June  1968  he  became  Deputy  Chief  of 
Naval  Operations  after  having  served  as 
Commander  of  the  Pacific  Fleet  Amphibi- 
ous Force.. ..JOHN  NIZAMOFF  writes  that 
he  has  time  for  reading  and  gardening  now 
that  he  is  retired  from  Engelhard  Industries, 
Newark,  N.J.  He  spends  the  summer 
months  at  the  Jersey  Shore. 

1933 

The  former  president  of  Mills  Pharma- 
ceuticals, Inc.,  and  Glencoe  Research,  Inc., 
St.  Louis,  Mo.,  DR.  HERMAN  W.  DORN, 
is  now  the  owner  and  director  of  Dorn  & 
Co.  (food  and  drug  consultants),  of 
Glendale,  Calif.  .  .  .  GEORGE  W.  NICOL- 
ETTI  serves  as  regional  manager  for  Gibbs 
Wire  &  Steel  Co.,  South   Bend,  Indiana. 

1934 

GORDON  S.  CRUIKSHANK  is  the  new 
vice  president  of  Gregory  &  Appel,  Indian- 
apolis, Ind.  He  has  spent  36  years  in  the  in- 
surance business.  Until  his  promotion  he 
served  as  secretary  of  the  firm. .  .  .  LUTH  ER 
C.  LEAVITT,  former  president  of  The  Otto 
Konigslow  Mfg.  Co.,  Cleveland,  Ohio,  has 
been  elected  vice  chairman  of  the  board  of 
the  company. 

1935 

ALFRED  CANTOR  serves  as  West  Coast 
area  manager  for  FLUOR  Ocean  Services, 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


31 


Inc.,  Santa  Barbara,  Calif.  .  .  .  THEODORE 
D.  McKINLEY,  a  pigments  department  re- 
search supervisor  at  Du  Pont's  Experimental 
Station,  Wilmington,  Del.,  has  been  elected 
president  of  the  Electrochemical  Society, 
Inc.  He  has  served  as  vice  president  twice 
and  five  terms  as  a  member  of  the  organiza- 
tion's board  of  directors.  The  society  is 
devoted  to  the  advancement  of  electro- 
chemistry, electrometallurgy  and  elec- 
tronics. Its  membership  of  5,000  is  drawn 
from  scientists  associated  with  industry, 
education,  and  government.  .  .  .  GEORGE 
H.  PERRY  has  been  named  manager  of 
finance  for  the  Warner  &  Swasey  Co., 
Grinding  Machine  Division.  It  is  a  newly 
created  position  at  the  Worcester  plant, 
which  was  recently  purchased  from  Norton 
Co.  Previously,  Perry  was  controller  of  the 
division  for  Norton. 

1936 

ROGER  W.  BRUCE  has  been  named  to 
the  Worcester  City  Planning  Board.  Now 
retired,  he  was  formerly  general  superin- 
tendent of  the  Worcester  Works  of  U.S. 
Steel  Corp. 

1937 

ERVING  ARUNDALE  has  retired  .from 
his  position  as  president  of  Esso  Research 
in  Europe  and  is  currently  living  in  South 
Yarmouth, 'Mass.  .  .  .  MORTON  S.  FINE 
has  formed  a  new  company,  Morton  S. 
Fine  &  Associates,  Inc.,  in  Bloomfield, 
Conn.  It  is  an  engineering,  surveying,  and 
landscape  architectural  firm.  Mr.  Fine  is 
also  the  present  chairman  of  the  Hartford 
Conservatory  of  Music.  ...  A.  HAMILTON 
POWELL  holds  the  post  of  director  of  en- 
gineering, Arrow-Hart,  Continental  Di- 
vision, Florence,  Ky. 

1938 

JOHN  G.  DESPO  has  been  promoted 
from  director  of  engineering  to  vice  presi- 
dent-engineering of  Granite  City  Steel 
Company,  Granite  City,  III.  Mr.  Despo  went 
to  Granite  City  Steel,  a  subsidiary  of  Na- 
tional Steel  Corporation,  in  1 970  as  director 
of  engineering  in  charge  of  the  Engineering 
Dept.  Previously  he  was  manager  of  con- 
struction for  the  Chicago  District  of  United 
States  Steel  Corporation.  Before  joining 
U.  S.  Steel  he  was  with  the  Massachusetts 
Highway  Dept.  and  Metropolitan  Boston 
Water  Supply  Commission.  .  .  .  DR.  JOHN 
B.  SCALZI,  coordinator  of  the  engineering 
program  at  Research  &  Technology,  U.  S. 
Dept.  of  HUD,  Washington,  D.C.,  resides 
in  Arlington,  Va. 


Despo  '38 


Burness  '39 


1939 

JACK  F.  BOYD  writes  that  he  is  semi- 
retired  as  chairman  of  the  board  of  the 
Nashua  (N.H.)  Brass  Co. ...  DR.  DONALD 
M.  BURNESS  has  been  appointed  as  a 
senior  research  associate  in  the  organic 
research  laboratory  at  the  Kodak  Research 
Laboratories,  Rochester,  N.Y.  He  joined 
Kodak  in  1 939  as  a  chemist  in  the  synthetic 
chemicals  division  and  in  1 942  participated 
in  a  national  defense  research  program  at 
the  University  of  Illinois.  In  1945  he  re- 
turned to  Kodak  as  a  research  chemist.  He 
was  appointed  a  research  associate  in  the 
chemistry  division  of  the  Kodak  Research 
Laboratories  in  1956.  .  .  .  EDWARD  C. 
DENCH,  a  Raytheon  Company  engineer, 
is  the  inventor  under  a  recent  patent  as- 
signed to  the  company  of  a  cold  cathode 
traveling  wave  tube  with  improved  oper- 
ating characteristics.  Traveling  wave  tubes 
are  used  in  microwave  radar  communica- 
tion and  other  electronic  systems.  The  in- 
ventor has  been  a  staff  consultant  in  Ray- 
theon's Microwave  and  Power  Tube  Di- 
vision in  Waltham,  Mass.  for  24  years.  A 
member  of  Sigma  Xi  and  Tau  Beta  Pi,  he 
holds  more  than  60  patents  on  microwave 
tubes  and  in  associated  fields. . . .  CARL  W. 
LEWIN  has  been  named  president  of  the 
International  Division  of  The  Austin  Com- 
pany, Cleveland,  Ohio.  Previously  he  was 
vice  president  and  sales  manager  re- 
sponsible for  coordination  of  sales  activities 
of  the  company's  overseas  subsidiaries. 
Mr.  Lewin  joined  the  company  in  1940  as 
an  assistant  project  engineer  in  the  Chicago 
district  where  he  played  an  important  role 
in  the  development  of  many  major  Austin 
projects  in  the  middle  west.  He  is  a  member 
of  the  American  Society  of  Chemical  En- 
gineers and  the  American  Management 
Association.  .  .  .  HAROLD  E.  WHITE  was 
recently  appointed  general  manager  of  the 
Bonded  Products  Division  of  Norton  Abra- 
sives Ltd.,  England.  White  joined  Norton 
in  1946  as  an  engineer  and  later  was  di- 
rector of  manufacturing  for  the  Abrasives 
Materials  Division,  Worcester. 

1940 

WILFRED  T.  BLADES  has  retired  as 
works  supervisor,  process  control,  at 
American  Steel  &  Wire  Co.,  Worcester. 
.  .  .  The  first  administrator  for  Atlantic 
County,  N.J.,  is  ROBERT  J.  CANNON. 
In  his  newly  created  position,  Cannon  will 
be  working  for  the  county  Board  of  Free- 
holders. He  has  spent  the  past  29  years  in 
federal  engineering  services. 

Lewin  '39 


1942 

ERIC  W.  ESSEN,  former  executive 
assistant  to  vice  president  of  manufactur- 
ing for  the  L.  G.  Balfour  Co.,  Attleboro, 
Mass.,  has  joined  General  Business  Serv- 
ices as  an  area  director  responsible  for 
activities  in  Attleboro,  North  Attleboro, 
Easton,  Norton,  and  Mansfield.  .  .  .  PAUL 
YANKAUSKAS  is  with  Thermco  Products, 
Orange,  Calif. 

1943 

S.  BAILEY  NORTON,  JR.,  has  been 
named  a  director  of  Daniel  O'Connell's 
Sons,  Inc.,  building  contractors,  of  Holy- 
oke,  Mass.  He  is  general  manager  of  Acme 
Chain  Division  of  North  American  Rockwell 
Corp.,  Holyoke. .  . .  ROBERT  S.  SCHEDIN, 
former  director  of  engineering  for  Cromp- 
ton  &  Knowles  Corp.,  Worcester,  has  been 
named  vice  president  of  Fairlawn  Hospital. 
He  will  be  responsible  for  preparing  and 
implementing  a  plan  to  enlarge  the  hos- 
pital's service  to  the  Worcester  community. 

A  technology  breakthrough  that  could  re- 
invigorate  the  SST-less  aerospace  industry 
has  come  from  the  planning  board  of  Dr. 
RICHARD  T.  WHITCOMB,'43,the  NASA 
scientist  who  discovered  the  "Coke  bottle 
shape"  design  that  made  supersonic  flight 
practical  in  the  1950's. 

Because  of  his  vision,  jet  airliners  may 
someday  cruise  20  per  cent  faster  on  the 
same  amount  of  power.  Promise  of  this 
bonus  in  speed  comes  from  NASA's  super- 
critical wing,  which  Whitcomb  designed. 
The  prototype  has  been  installed  on  a  Navy 
F-8  jet  and  test  flown  successfully  during 
the  past  year.  The  basically  new  airfoil 
shape  permits  aircraft  to  fly  at  increased 
speeds  before  encountering  a  significant 
rise  in  aerodynamic  drag. 

Theoretically,  jet  airliners  that  cruise  at 
about  550  m.p.h.  will  be  able  to  fly  con- 
siderably closer  to  the  sonic  barrier,  gain- 
ing over  100  m.p.h.  without  having  to  use 
more  powerful  engines.  This  would  shave 
at  least  two  hours  off  an  eight-hour  flight. 

The  innovative  wing  is  flatter  on  top  than 
are  conventional  wings,  and  has  a  curved 
trailing  edge.  As  an  extra  bonus,  engineers 
have  found  that  it  can  be  thicker,  allowing 
more  fuel  to  be  carried  and  thereby  in- 
creasing the  range  of  the  aircraft. 

The  Whitcomb  wing  may  help  the  U.  S. 
aerospace  industry  get  firmly  back  onto 
its  feet  again. 

1944 

"Electric  Power  and  a  Clean  Environ- 
ment— Can  We  Have  Both?"  was  the  title 
of  the  talk  given  by  JOHN  W.  LEBOUR- 
VEAU  at  the  March  meeting  of  the  Inter- 
national Management  Council's  Zone  52 
Chapters  held  in  Taunton,  Mass.  Lebour- 
veau,  who  is  manager  of  environmental 
research  for  the  New  England  Electric 
System,  is  responsible  for  technical  pro- 
grams of  environmental  effects  evaluation 
for  the  Massachusetts  Electric  Co.,  the 
New  England  Power  Co.,  and  the  Nar- 
ragansett  Electric  Co.  .  .  .  WALLACE  A. 


32 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL      '*■": 


UNDERWOOD  is  sales  manager  for  Mar- 
shall Marine  Corp.,  South  Dartmouth, 
Mass. 

1945 

JOHN  A.  TEMPLETON  holds  the  posi- 
tion of  senior  staff  engineer  with  TRW 
Systems  Group,  Norton  Air  Force  Base, 
San  Bernardino,  Calif. 

1946 

Principal  engineer  at  Westenhoff  & 
Novick  Consulting  Engineers,  Wheaton, 
III.,  is  ALFRED  J.WOOD. 

DONALD  H.  GILMORE  has  been 
appointed  sales  manager  of  Rodney  Hunt 
Company's  water  control  equipment  di- 
vision in  Orange,  Mass.  The  division  pro- 
duces sluice  gates  and  related  equipment 
for  water  pollution  and  flood  control 
projects.   A  former  research    assistant  at 


WPI's  Alden  Hydraulic  Laboratory,  Gilmore 
joined  Rodney  Hunt  in  1 952  as  a  technical 
sales  engineer  in  the  water  control  equip- 
mentdivision.  Priorto  his  recent  promotion, 
he  had  held  a  number  of  managerial  posts 
with  the  company. 

FRANK  L.  MAZZONE  serves  as  vice 
president  and  general  manager  of  Acres 
American,  Inc.,  an  engineering  and  con- 
sulting firm  that  is  currently  moving  from 
Niagara  Falls  to  new  quarters  in  Buffalo, 
N.Y. 

1947 

DR.  MORREL  H.  COHEN,  University  of 
Chicago  professor  in  the  James  Franck  In- 
stitute in  the  Departments  of  Physics  and 
Theoretical  Biology  and  in  the  college,  has 
been  appointed  the  Louis  Block  Professor 
of  Physics  and  Theoretical  Biology.  Cohen, 
who  has  written  more  than  125  research 


ALUMNI  TRUSTEES 


Fyler  '45 


Smith  '37 


Anson  C.  Fyler,  '45,  J.  Morrison  Smith, 
'37,  and  Charles  C.  Bonin,  '38,  Alumni 
Council  nominees  for  the  WPI  Board  of 
Trustees,  were  elected  to  serve  as  board 
members  June  3. 

Fyler,  who  was  elected  to  his  first  five- 
year  term  as  trustee,  is  chairman  of  the 
board  and  president  of  Arrow-Hart,  Inc. 
(manufacturers  of  electrical  wiring  and 
controls),  Hartford,  Conn.  He  is  also  di- 
rector of  Veeder  Industries,  Connecticut 
Bank  &  Trust  Co.,  and  Phoenix  Mutual 
Life  and  the  Manufacturers  Association  of 
Hartford  County.  A  resident  of  West 
Hartford,  he  is  married  and  has  two  sons. 

Smith,  also  a  first-term  trustee,  is  presi- 
dent of  National  Radio  Institute  (elec- 
tronics school),  Division  of  McGraw  Hill, 
Inc.,  Washington,  D.  C.  He  is  an  officer 
and  founder  of  the  Macamor  Foundation  of 
Washington;  chairman  of  the  Providence 
Savings  and  Loan  Association;  and  a  di- 
rector of  the  Washington  Society  for  the 
Blind,  Washington  YMCA,  and  Capital 
Radio  Engineering  Institute.  He  is  the  son 
of  James  E.  Smith,  '06  and  the  uncle  of 
Michael  Galbraith,  '58.  Married  and  the 
father  of  four  children,  Smith  resides  in 
McLean,  Va. 

Bonin  was  reelected  to  his  second  five- 
year  term  on  the  Board  of  Trustees.  He  is 
president  of  Chemical  Construction  Cor- 
poration, New  York  City,  a  subsidiary  of 


Bonin  '38 

Boise  Cascade  Corporation.  Since  joining 
Chemico  he  has  been  involved  in  the  en- 
gineering and  erection  of  plants  valued  at 
more  than  one  billion  dollars  in  the  United 
States  and  around  the  world.  He  is  the  only 
professional  engineer  to  hold  engineering 
licenses  in  all  the  54  states  and  territories. 
A  member  of  the  Executive  Committee  of 
both  the  Board  of  Trustees  and  the 
Alumni  Association,  he  is  married,  lives  in 
Mendham,  N.J.,  and  is  the  father  of  two 
children. 

Fifteen  WPI  trustees  who  have  at  various 
times  served  on  the  board  with  distinction 
were  elected  to  the  newly  created  position 
of  Emeritus  Trustee  at  the  winter  meeting 
of  the  Board  of  Trustees. 

Following  the  election,  Pres.  Hazzard 
said,  "We  are  pleased  that  we  can  continue 
to  enjoy  the  wise  counsel  of  these  men. 
We  look  forward  to  their  giving  continued 
leadership  and  support  to  WPI." 

Those  elected  were;  J.  Norman  Alberti, 
'24;  Phillip  R.  Delphos,  '26;  Sidney  W. 
Farnsworth,  '06;  Dr.  William  E.  Hanson, 
'32;  Frank  C.  Harrington,  '98;  Chandler  W. 
Jones,  '26;  Dwight  E.  Jones,  '28  (De- 
ceased April  1972);  Arthur  W.  Knight,  '29; 
Harry  B.  Lindsay,  '13;  Burton  W.  Marsh, 
'20;  Charles  R.  Michel,  '37;  Arthur  Nutt, 
'16;  Warren  W.  Parks,  '17;  George  W. 
Smith,  Jr.,  '1 5;  and  George  A.  Walker,  '22. 


Cohen  '47 


publications,  joined  the  university  as  an 
instructor  in  1952  and  became  a  full  pro- 
fessor in  1960.  From  1968  until  last  year 
he  was  director  of  the  James  Franck  In- 
stitute, an  association  of  scientists  with 
primary  interests  in  the  study  of  chemical 
physics  and  solid-state  physics,  especially 
the  condensed  states  of  matter.  He  is  a 
former  Guggenheim  Fellow  and  National 
Science  Foundation  Senior  Postdoctoral 
Fellow.  Currently  he  is  a  Fellow  of  the 
American  Physical  Society  and  a  member 
of  Sigma  Xi.  .  .  .  ROBERT  C.  MARK  is 
manager,  new  plant/non-union  relations 
for  the  corporate  employee  relations  staff 
at  General  Electric  Co.,  New  York  City.  .  .  . 
GEORGE  A.  SCHUPP  has  been  elected 
vice  president  and  chief  engineer,  color 
TV  products,  for  Zenith  Radio  Corporation, 
Chicago,  III.  He  joined  Zenith  in  1966  as 
staff  assistant  to  the  vice  president  and 
chief  engineer.  He  was  named  director  of 
television  engineering  in  1971  and  chief 
engineer,  color  TV  products,  earlier  this 
year.  Previously  he  was  vice  president  and 
director  of  operations  for  Trans-American 
Electronics,  International,  Inc.  For  three 
years,  he  was  chief  engineer  of  the  Mag- 
navox  Company.  He  was  with  G.  E.  from 
1948  to  1963.  .  .  .  Scan-Optics,  Inc.,  East 
Hartford,  Conn,  has  announced  the  ap- 
pointment of  DONALD  B.  THOMPSON 
as  board  chairman,  president  and  chief 
executive  officer  of  the  company.  After  20 
years  in  the  computer  industry,  Thompson 
comes  to  the  firm  from  Potter  Instrument 
Co.,  Long  Island,  where  he  was  vice 
president  and  a  member  of  the  board  of 
directors.  Prior  to  joining  Potter  in  1968, 
he  spent  17  years  with  IBM  holding  posi- 
tions in  advanced  systems  design  and 
general  management.  Scan-Optics,  which 
he  now  heads,  produces  optical  character 
recognition  systems. 

1948 

ROBERT  H.  ADAMS  has  been  appointed 
manager  of  the  Home  Entertainment 
Strategic  Planning  Operation  for  the  Gen- 
eral Electric  Company.  His  office  is  located 
at  Operation  headquarters.  .  .  .  ERNEST  P. 
FERNSTEN  serves  as  airways  facilities 
sector  manager  for  the  Federal  Aviation 
Administration  at  Buffalo  (N.Y.)  Interna- 
tional Airport ROBERT  W.  HENDER- 
SON has  been  promoted  to  vice  president 
of  marketing  at  Rodney  Hunt  Co.,  Orange, 
Mass.  Mr.  Henderson  will  be  responsible 
for  the  sales  activities  of  its  water  control 
equipment  division,  textile  machinery  di- 
vision, international  sales  division,  indus- 
trial rolls  division  and  advertising.  In  1956 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


33 


he  joined  the  firm  as  an  application  en- 
gineer. In  1962  he  advanced  to  product 
manager  and  to  division  manager  two 
years  later.  He  was  elected  vice  president 
and  manager  of  the  water  control  equip- 
ment division  in  1970. 

1949 

ROBERT  W.  BATCHELDER  has  been 
appointed  as  a  vice  president  of  Johnson 
&  Higgins  of  Pennsylvania,  Inc.  (Interna- 
tional   insurance    brokers    and    employee 


Batche/der  '49 


McComiskey  '51 


benefit  consultants).  He  joined  the  Phila- 
delphia office  in  1964  and  became  an  as- 
sistant vice  president  in  1 967.  He  has  been 
a  senior  account  executive  in  the  com- 
mercial department.  .  .  .  KARL  R.  BERG- 
GREN,  JR.,  is  manager  of  quality  control 
for  Buffalo  Forge  Company,  Buffalo,  N.Y. 
.  .  .  Capt.  JAMES  B.  MORIN,  USN,  is 
commanding  officer  of  the  USS  LaSalle, 
an  amphibious  transport  dock  of  the  At- 
lantic Fleet.  In  June  Capt.  Morin  was 
slated  to  take  the  LaSalle  to  the  island  of 
Bahrain  in  the  Persian  Gulf,  where  she  will 
become  the  flagship  for  the  Commander, 
Middle  East  Forces.  The  LaSalle  will  be 
the  U.S.  Navy's  only  representative  in  that 
part  of  the  world.  .  .  .  LEO  D.  ROSE  has 
recently  joined  Baldwin  Stewart  Building 
Systems  in  North  Haven,  Conn.,  where  he 
is  active  in  sales  promotion,  public  rela- 
tions, engineering  and  "design-build"  con- 
tracting. He  is  the  current  president  of  the 
Connecticut  Building  Congress,  Inc.  .  .  . 
ROBERT  A.  ROWSE  has  been  named  di- 
rector of  research  and  furnace  plants  for 
the  Norton  Co.  Abrasives  Division,  Worces- 
ter. Formerly  he  was  director  of  research. 
.  .  .  ELLSWORTH  M.  SAMMET  has  been 
promoted  to  District  One  Construction 
Engineer  at  the  Lenox  (Mass.)  office  of  the 
State  Dept.  of  Public  Works.  Previously  he 
served  as  the  District  Two  Maintenance 
Engineer  at  the  Northampton  office. 

1950 

Married:  ROBERT  L.  TAGEN  and  Miss 
Marie  Leonne  Couture  in  Gardner,  Massa- 
chusetts on  March  24,  1972.  Mrs.  Tagen 
is  assistant  treasurer  of  The  Gardner  News, 
Inc.  Her  husband  is  a  media  salesman  with 
J.  Bain,  Inc. 

LESTER  J.  REYNOLDS  has  been  ap- 
pointed manager  for  textile  dyes  and  textiles 
at  the  American  Cyanamid  Company, 
Bound  Brook,  N.J.  With  Cyanamid  since 
1956,  he  was  most  recently  manager  of 
marketing  research  in  the  commercial  de- 
velopment department.  ...  A.  KENNETH 
STEWART  has  been  named  general  man- 
ager of  Bendix  Corporation's  abrasives 
division  in  Jackson,  Michigan. 


34 


1951 

ROBERT  W.  BALDWIN  is  currently  em- 
ployed by  the  New  York  Division  of  AMF 
Incorporated,  York,  Pa.,  as  a  sales  repre- 
sentative. .  .  .  DEXTER  E.  CATE,  a  former 
electrical  engineer  with  Raytheon  in  Ports- 
mouth, R.I.,  manages  a  new  branch  of  The 
Reed  Elwell  Real  Estate  Agency  in  Tilton, 
N.H.  He  received  his  New  Hampshire 
realtor's  license  last  November.  .  .  .  NOR- 
RIS  H.  COREY  has  been  advanced  from 
system  operator  to  chief  system  operator 
atthe  REMVEC  Facility  of  the  New  England 
Electric  System.  He  was  one  of  the  original 
system  operators  at  the  facility. .  . .  THOM- 
AS A.  McCOMISKEY  has  been  appointed 
as  manager  of  construction  in  the  western 
district  of  Bethlehem  Steel  Corporation's 
fabricated  steel  construction  department. 
In  his  new  position  he  will  be  head- 
quartered at  the  firm's  Pinhole  Point  fabri- 
cating works  near  Richmond,  Calif.  Pre- 
viously he  had  been  project  engineer  in 
Bethlehem  Steel's  Central  erection  district 
in  Leetsdale,  Pa.  .  .  .  Capt.  CHARLES  G. 
DARRELL,  USN,  is  director,  underseas 
programs,  Office  of  Naval  Research, 
Arlington,  Va. . .  .  THEODORE  A.  MELLOR 
serves  as  quality  assurance  manager  for 
Riley  Stoker  Co.,  Worcester,  Mass. 

1952 

HAROLD  R.  ALTHEN  works  as  general 
sales  manager  for  the  Cochrane  Division  of 
the  Crane  Co.  in  King  of  Prussia,  Pa.  .  .  . 
RICHARD  H.  ENGLUND  now  serves  as 
pastor  of  the  Church  of  Our  Saviour 
(Evangelical  Lutheran)  in  Fond  Du  Lac, 
Wis. . . .  ROBERT  C.  HENEGAN  is  manager 
of  engineering  in  the  Capacitor  Division  at 
General  Instrument  of  Taiwan  Ltd.,  in 
Taipei. 

1953 

DR.  RAYMOND  P.  PORTER  has  ac- 
cepted a  position  with  Acushnet  Co.,  New 
Bedford,  Mass. 

1954 

DAVID  F.  GILBERT  is  works  manager 
for  E.  I.  du  Pont  De  Nemours  &  Co., 
Montague  Works,  Montague,  Mich.  .  .  . 
DUDLEY  REDDEN,  Holliston  (Mass.)  as- 


sessor of  taxes,  has  announced  that  he 
will  seek  the  Democratic  Party's  nomina- 
tion for  State  Representative  of  the  41st 
Middlesex  District  which  encompasses  the 
towns  of  Sherborn,  Ashland,  Hopkinton 
and  Holliston.  Redden  is  a  professional 
land  surveyor  and  holds  registration  in 
Massachusetts,  Connecticut,  Vermont, 
Maine,  and  Ohio.  He  is  a  vice  president 
and  a  member  of  the  board  of  Schofield 
Brothers,  Inc.,  land  surveyors  and  civil  en- 
gineers of  Framingham.  .  .  .  WALTER  A. 
REIBLING  has  been  named  plant  manager 
at  General  Machine  Shop,  Fall  Brook  Plant 
and  Components,  Inc.,  a  subsidiary  of 
Corning  Glass  Works,  Corning,  N.Y.  He  has 
been  production  superintendent  at  the 
plant  since  1970.  He  joined  the  company 
in  1964  as  a  senior  equipment  engineer  at 
Wellsboro,  Pa.,  where  he  was  named  super- 
visor of  equipment  engineering  in  1 965.  In 
1967  he  was  named  plant  manufacturing 
engineer  at  the  Parkersburg,  W.  Va.,  plant. 

1956 

PAUL  A.  CNOSSEN  has  purchased  an 
independent  hardware  store.  Center  Sup- 
ply, in  Uxbridge,  Mass.  The  business  sup- 
plies hardware,  paint,  plumbing  and  other 
products  to  the  public  as  well  as  servicing 
local    industries   on    a    six-day-per-week 

basis JOHN  K.  DERBY  holds  the  post 

of  assistant  manager  of  manufacturing  at 
Staley  Chemical  Division,  Marlboro,  Mass. 

IAMES  L  FORAND  is  a  self-employed 

consultant-transit  in  Kresgeville,  Pa. 

1957 

DR.  RENE  R.  BERTRAND  was  one  of 
the  authors  of  the  article,  "Sampling  and 
Analyzing  Air  Pollution  Sources"  in  the 
January  issue  of  the  magazine  Chemical 
Engineering.  Rene  is  a  senior  research 
chemist  with  the  Government  Research 
Laboratory  at  Esso  Research  and  Engi- 
neering Co.,  Linden,  N.J.  For  the  past  two 
years  he  was  project  leader  for  a  team  de- 
fining the  R&D  needs  in  air-pollution- 
measurement  techniques  and  the  market 
for  air-pollution  instrumentation,  under  an 
Environmental  Protection  Agency  contract. 
He  is  a  member  of  the  Air  Pollution  Control 
Association.    .    .    .   JOHN    J.    KELLY   has 


MORGAN 
CONSTRUCTION  CO, 

ENGINEERS  &  MANUFACTURERS 
WORCESTER,  MASSACHUSETTS  01B05 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


joined  the  staff  of  the  Grant  Chemical  Di- 
vision of  the  Ferro  Corporation,  Baton 
Rouge  (La.)  plant.  His  prime  responsibility 
is  in  the  design,  construction  and  operation 
of  Grant's  distillation  facilities.  He  was 
formerly  associated  with  Vulcan  Materials, 
Olin-Matheson  Chemical  Corporation  and 

Allied  Chemical  Corporation PHILIP  L. 

ROTONDO  works  for  Combustion  Engi- 
neering, Inc.,  as  a  stress  analyst  in  the  nu- 
clear department.  .  .  .  Maj.  RICHARD  A. 
STEVENS  currently  serves  at  Marine  Corps 
Air  Station,  El  Toro,  Calif. 

1958 

ANTHONY  J.  DiGIOVANNI  has  been 
appointed  general  superintendent  for  Mys- 
tic Valley  Gas  Company  in  Maiden,  Mass. 
He  joined  Mystic  Valley  in  1960  as  plan- 
ning engineer  after  moving  from  NEPSCO 
in  Worcester.  He  became  distribution  en- 
gineer in  1961  and  assistant  general  super- 
intendent in  1967.  .  .  .  BURTON  L. 
KEELER  is  now  a  contract  administrator 
for  the  General  Electric  Co.  in  Pittsfield, 

Mass Attorney  ARTHUR  P.  McGOW- 

AN,  JR.,  of  Canton,  Conn.,  has  become  a 
partner  in  the  Hartford  law  firm  of  Halloran, 
Sage,  Phelon  &  Hagarty.  A  former  em- 
ployee of  Electric  Boat  Division  of  General 
Dynamics  Corp.,  he  is  a  member  of  the 
Hartford  County,  Connecticut,  and  Amer- 
ican Bar  Associations.  .  .  .  WESLEY  W. 
PINNEY  serves  as  chief  engineer.  Royal 
Packaging  Equipment  Co.,  Maywood,  N.J. 
.  .  .  BERNARD  PODBERESKY  is  manager 
of  Business  Operations  at  General  Electric 
Co.,  Schenectady,  N.Y. 

1959 

CARL  M.  FROVA  is  vice  president  of 
sales  and  marketing  services,  Universal 
Interloc,  Inc.,  Santa  Ana,  Calif.  .  .  .  MOR- 
GAN M.  WHITNEY,  JR.,  is  material  utiliza- 
tion manager,  Ford  Motor  Co.,  Dearborn, 
Mich. 

1960 

Married:  ROBERT  J.  PAVANO  and  Miss 
Judith  T.  Barnhart  on  March  25,  1972  in 
Plainville,  Connecticut.  Mrs.  Pavano  is  a 
supervisor  of  the  business  teaching  depart- 
ment in  a  high  school  in  Columbus,  Ohio, 
where  the  couple  resides.  Mr.  Pavano  is  a 
sales  engineer  with  Borg-Warner  Mechan- 
ical Seals  Division. 

MARTIN  BECK  currently  works  as  a 
technical  service  representative  for  Cabot 

Corp.,  Seine,  France PAUL  M.  BRYON 

is  factory  manager  at  Fisher  Engineering 
Co.,  Rockland,  Me.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  F. 
HESTER  holds  a  new  position  as  manager- 
general  administration  at  Turbo  Power  and 


Whether  it's  creating  a  design  for  an  Earth 
Week  poster,  a  signage  system,  or  a 
futuristic  chess  set,  Robert  A.  Propper,  '57, 
of  the  designing  firm  of  Propper/Elman, 
New  York  City,  can  usually  come  up  with  a 
fresh  idea. 

Last  year  his  designing  firm  created  the 
green,  black,  and  white  Earth  Week  symbol 
which  was  adopted  by  New  York  State's 
Council  of  Environmental  Advisors.  His 
other  design  work  includes:  a  sign  system 
for  the  Memphis,  Tenn.  airport;  book 
jackets  for  major  publishers;  and  a  limited 
edition  plexiglas  chess  set  which  has  been 
featured  in  Industrial  Design  magazine. 

The  chess  set,  entitled  "Urban  Gambit," 
has  cut  and  polished  plexiglas  pieces  and 
a  mirrored  glass  board  imprinted  with 
squares. 

Mr.    Propper's  photographic  work  has 


appeared  in  many  publications  including 
The  New  York  Times,  Art  in  America,  Art 
News,  Architectural  Forum,  American 
Home,  House  &  Garden,  Museum  of 
Modern  Art  Bi-Annual  Report,  and  Archi- 
tectural League  of  New  York  publications. 

In  the  past  Propper  has  also  worked  as  a 
design  engineer  (mechanical  and  elec- 
trical), technical  writer  and  industrial 
photographer,  and  exhibition  designer  and 
photographer  for  the  New  Haven  Rede- 
velopment Agency. 

Propper  is  currently  teaching  corporate 
design  at  Parsons  School  of  Design,  New 
York  City.  He  graduated  from  Yale  Uni- 
versity's School  of  Art  and  Architecture 
with  a  BFA  and  MFA  after  receiving  his 
degree  in  electrical  engineering  from  WPI 
in  1957. 


Hester 


Marine  Systems,  Inc.,  Farmington,  Conn. 
He  will  have  charge  of  all  administrative 
functions  for  the  corporation.  Hester  joined 
Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  Division  as  an 
analytical  engineer  in  1960.  After  accept- 
ing a  series  of  increasingly  important  en- 
gineering assignments  in  the  analytical 
field,  he  moved  into  administration.  He 
transferred  to  Turbo  Power  and  Marine 
Systems  in  1 968. . . .  JOHN  S.  REISINGER 
has  been  promoted  to  district  equipment 
superintendent  by  the  Southern  New 
England  Telephone  Co.,  Manchester,  Conn. 
He  joined  the  firm  in  1960  as  an  assistant 
engineer.  .  .  .  Worcester  City  Manager 
Francis  J.  McGrath  has  appointed  NOR- 
TON S.  REMMER  to  fill  the  position  of 
plans  inspector  and  senior  building  in- 
spector in  the  Bureau  of  Public  Buildings. 
The  new  inspector  has  an  MS  Degree  from 
Oxford  University  in  England  where  pre- 
viously he  served  as  a  research  and  teach- 
ing assistant.  For  several  years  he  has  been 
a  senior  research  engineer  for  Norton  Co. 
....  STUART  P.  ROBERTS  is  a  salesman 
with  S  &  S  Electronics,  Inc.,  Chelmsford, 
Mass. 


1961 

EDWARD  J.  BAYON,  '31,  president  of 
Tighe  &  Bond,  Inc.,  consulting  engineers, 
has  announced  the  appointment  of  JOHN 
W.  POWERS  as  associate  with  the  Holyoke, 
Mass.  firm.  Powers  joined  Tighe  &  Bond  as 
a  project  engineer  in  1968  and  has  been 
responsible  for  design  of  civil  engineering 
projects  in  the  western  Massachusetts 
area.  He  has  been  most  recently  responsible 
for  the  development  of  the  design  of  East- 
hampton's  waste  water  treatment  program. 
Previously  a  sanitary  engineer  with  the 
Naval  Facilities  Engineering  Command  in 
Boston,  he  supervised  the  operation  of 
waste  water  treatment  facilities  for  various 
naval  installations  in  the  area.  .  .  .  IBM 
Corp.  of  Des  Plaines,  III.,  employs  PETER 
D.  BEEKMAN,  advisory  industry  marketing 
representative. .  . .  BRADLEY  E.  HOSMER, 
who  now  works  for  Marketing  Action 
Group  in  Fairfield,  Conn.,  as  a  consultant, 
has  moved  to  Redding  Center.  His  hobby  is 
building  and  refinishing  furniture.  His  wife, 
Jaunita,  works  out  of  their  home  as  a  free 
lance  designer  of  infants'  wear.  .  .  .  ALLAN 
MADNICK  has  employment  as  an  elec- 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


35 


tronic  engineer  with  the  Federal  Govern- 
ment at  Fort  Monmouth,  N.J.  .  .  .  JOHN  A. 
MATLEY  has  been  named  senior  systems 
analyst  at  Manufacturing  Management 
Sciences,  Burlington,  Mass.  .  .  .  DR. 
GORDON  M.  PARKER  is  manager— R  &  D 
— for  Akashi  Lab.,  Honny  Chemicals  Co. 
Ltd.,  Akashi,  Japan. 

1962 

JAMES  L.  FORAND,  JR.,  recently  re- 
ceived his  MBA  degree  from  Lehigh  Uni- 
versity. Jim  is  with  Homer  Research 
Laboratories,  Bethlehem  Steel  Corp.,  Beth- 
lehem, Pa.  .  .  .  DAVID  L.  GOODMAN  has 
acquired  an  industrial  electrical  concern, 
Beaudreau  Electrical,  Inc.  in  Waterford, 
Conn.  .  .  .  KENNETH  A.  HOMON  is  now 
manager  of  sensor  programs  at  IBM  Corp., 
Gaithersburg,  Md.  .  .  .  KENNETH  C. 
KRIKORIAN  is  a  professor  at  Quinsigamond 
Community  College,  Worcester.  .  .  .  LCDR 
(USN)  BRIAN  J.  O'CONNELL,  who 
received  his  master's  degree  in  civil  engi- 
neering at  Stanford  last  year,  is  now  execu- 
tive officer  of  the  Seabee  battalion,  Port 
Hueneme,  Calif.  .  .  .  RONALD  A.  PENQUE 
has  come  up  with  a  brand  new  recycling 
story.  Protected  by  patents,  Penque  pro- 
poses to  treat  ordinary  household  garbage 
by  chemical  and  mechanical  means  which 
will  convert  it  totally  into  usable  products. 
He  plans  to  accomplish  this  without  burn- 
ing, without  odor,  without  stream  or  air 
pollution.  He  says  his  Biocel  process  will 
produce  such  commercially  marketable 
items  as  paper  pulp,  iron  and  steel,  alumi- 
num, glass,  metals,  fertilizer,  and  building 
products.  The  president  of  Biocel  Cor- 
poration, he  also  owns  the  Land  Chemical 
Company,  Paterson,  N.J.  .  .  .  Assistant  De- 
partment of  (Mass.)  Public  Works  Com- 
missioner, PAUL  SHARON,  has  been 
appointed  to  serve  as  acting  commissioner 
until  a  permanent  replacement  is  found  for 
retiring  Harry  P.  Loftus.  The  acting  com- 
missioner is  a  member  of  the  Mass.  Regis- 
tered Professional  Engineer  Society;  Mass. 
Registered  Land  Surveyors;  Notary  Public; 
Municipal  Engineers  Assoc;  Highway 
Association;  Metropolitan  Area  Planning 
Council,  and  Central  Mass.  Conference  of 

football  officials STEPHEN  M.  WELLS 

works  for  ITT  as  a  senior  systems  consultant 
in  New  York.  .  .  .  The  product  manager  for 
Webster  &  Martin,  South  Burlington,  Vt., 
STANLEY  M.  WILBUR,  recently  was 
elected  president  of  the  Shelburne  Jaycees. 


SUCCESS  IS  SPELLED  "1-2-3" 


NEED  A  JOB? 

Don't  forget  that  the  resources  of  the  WPI 
Placement  Office  and  the  Alumni  Associa- 
tion are  available  to  you.  Contact  Warren  B. 
Zepp  at  WPI  for  information. 


When  Robert  R.  Cassanelli,  '62,  was  a 
chemistry  student  at  WPI,  he  probably 
never  dreamed  that  in  just  a  few  short  years 
he  would  be  awarded  a  Patent  for  a  prize- 
winning  product  that  is  currently  being 
marketed  coast  to  coast.  Back  then  "Cass" 
was  concerned  with  the  "Tech  News," 
the  "Peddler,"  R.O.T.C.  and  his  duties 
with  Lambda  Chi  Alpha  fraternity.  He  prob- 
ably didn't  think  twice  about  the  strawberry 
gelatin  that  was  occasionally  served  with 
his  meals. 


During  the  past  few  years  priorities  have 
changed,  and  gelatin  has  concerned  him 
virtually  all  of  his  waking  hours.  A  group 
leader  in  the  General  Foods  Jell-0  research 
division,  Tarrytown,  N.Y.,  Cassanelli  shares 
a  patent  for  his  work  in  the  development  of 
the  popular  gelatin  dessert,  "1  -2-3." 

He  recalls  that  "1-2-3,"  a  three-layered 
dessert  (topping,  chiffon,  and  gelatin), 
came  about  as  sort  of  a  happy  accident,  a 
laboratory  curiosity..  Somebody  was  whip- 
ping Jell-0  with  emulsified  vegetable  oil 
when  it  was  discovered  that  a  product  had 
been  created  that  developed  its  own  top- 
ping. From  then  on  ideas  sprouted  like 
mushrooms.  Interesting  textures  were 
looked  into  and  Jell-0  was  mixed  with 
other  ingredients. 


Although  chocolate  is  Cassanelli's  favor 
ite  flavor,  strawberry  took  precedence  over 
it  in  the  test  product.  (Jell-0  has  a  water 
base  that  does  not  bring  out  the  best  in 
chocolate.)  But  strawberry  is  his  second 
favorite  flavor  and  that  was  the  one  that 
was  used  in  the  new  product  shown  to  the 
marketing  new  products  committee. 

With  a  go-ahead  from  marketing,  small 
home-use  tests  were  scheduled.  Hundreds 
of  consumers  used  the  product  and  an- 
swered questionnaires.  The  consensus  was 
that  there  should  be  more  topping  and  that 
the  dessert  texture  and  taste  could  be  im- 
proved. After  the  formula  was  changed 
slightly  and  other  emulsifiers  were  evalu- 
ated, the  product  was  resubmitted  for  more 
consumer  testing.  Still  more  improvements 
were  suggested  and  made.  Ultimately  the 
dessert  was  named  "1-2-3,"  production 
methods  were  established,  and  it  was  put 
into  the  hands  of  the  marketing  and  ad- 
vertising men. 

When  it  came  time  for  Canner/Packer 
magazine  to  give  out  its  seventh  annual 
New  Foods  Awards,  "1  -2-3"  received  one 
of  the  top  seven  national  prizes.  "A 
tremendous  innovation  ...  a  very  unique 
approach  to  a  simple  everyday  dessert," 
were  some  of  the  judges'  reactions. 

"I  feel  fortunate  to  have  had  a  hand  in 
working  on  something  that  made  it," 
Robert  Cassanelli  says.  ("1-2-3"  has  now 
successfully  tempted  the  public  palate  in 
not  only  strawberry,  but  cherry,  raspberry, 
orange  and  lime.) 

He  declines  to  report  what  he  may  have 
bubbling  on  the  back  burner  at  present; 
but  he  claims  that  if  it  is  a  hot  dish  it  will 
definitely  not  be  called  the  "Cassanelli 
Casserole." 


1963 

Bom:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  DONALD  M. 
WOOD  II,  a  daughter,  Kara  Yvonne,  on 
August  1 2, 1 971 .  Don,  who  is  president  of 
his  own  company,  Wood's  Marine  Sup- 
plies, Inc.,  of  Lake  Park,  Fla.,  is  fast  be- 
coming the  largest  stocking  dealer  in 
Southern  Florida  for  sailboats  under  30  ft. 

STANLEY  J.  BELCINSKI,  JR.,  works  as 
a  quality  control  supervisor  for  the  Massa- 
chusetts Steel  Treating  Division  of  Presmet 
Corp.,  Worcester.  ...  DR.  ROBERT  M. 
DESMOND  has  just  been  made  head  of 
the  mechanical  engineering  department  at 
Rochester  (N.Y.)  Institute  of  Technology. 
.  .  .  EDWARD  J.  KALINOWSKI  now  serves 
as  a  senior  compensation  analyst  for  Eli 
Lilly  &  Co.,  Indianapolis,  Ind.  .  .  .  JAMES 
M.  KELLY,  JR.,  is  sales  engineer  for  the 
Dustex  Division,  American  Precision  In- 
dustries, Buffalo,  N.Y Prof.  JOSEPH  R. 

MANCUSO  has  been  appointed  head  of 
the  Department  of  Management  Engi- 
neering at  WPI.  He  succeeds  Dr.  Albert  J. 
Schwieger  who  is  retiring  after  42  years 


on  the  faculty.  Presently  Mancuso  is  com- 
pleting work  for  his  doctorate  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Massachusetts  as  well  as  teach- 
ing management  subjects  at  WPI.  He  is 
also  president  of  a  management  consult- 
ing firm,  Applied  Marketing,  Inc.,  of 
Framingham,  Mass.  ...  DR.  ROBERT  E. 
MURPHY  serves  as  assistant  astronomer 
and  assistant  professor  of  astronomy  at 
the  Institute  for  Astronomy,  University  of 
Hawaii.  ...  DR.  WILLIAM  J.  SAVOLA, 
JR.,  who  received  his  Ph.D.  in  physics  from 
the  University  of  Connecticut  last  year,  is 
currently  working  for  his  MBA  at  New 
York  University. 

1964 
Married:  DAVID  0.  ADAMS  to  Yvonne 
L.  Alexandre  in  Ogunquit,  Maine,  on  Jan- 
uary 29,  1972.  Mrs.  Adams,  who  attended 
Boston  University,  is  a  secretary  at  MIT 
in  Cambridge.  David  is  with  Sikorsky  Air- 
craft in  Stratford,  Conn.  The  couple  resides 
in  Newtown,  Conn.  .  .  .  PETER  DORNE- 
MANN  to  Miss  Penelope  Hebberd  of 
Boston,  Mass.  on  October  23,  1971. 


36 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL    f 


Born:  To  Capt.  and  Mrs.  ELLIOT  F. 
WYNER  their  second  child,  a  son,  Robert 
Harris,  on  April  8,  1972.  Wyner  has  been 
working  at  the  U.S.  Army  Natick  Labora- 
tories since  his  return  from  Korea. 

ALBIN  A.  HASTBACKA  has  been 
chosen  to  receive  RCA's  Engineer  of  the 
Month  Award  at  the  RCA  Aerospace 
Systems  Division,  Burlington,  Mass.  He 
received  the  award  in  recognition  of  his 
outstanding  work  as  the  system  architect 
of  a  command  and  control  computer  sys- 
tem for  the  Air  Force.  The  approach  that  he 
developed  was  a  major  factor  in  RCA's  re- 
ceiving a  multi-million-dollar  contract. 
Hastbacka  is  a  leader,  Technical  Staff,  in 
the  Command  Control  Program  Manage- 
ment Office RICHARD  F.  HEALING  is 

with  Frank  Healing  &  Son,  Easton,  Conn. 

IOHN  C.  RYDER,  who  since  1969  has 

been  a  senior  engineer  in  advanced  tire 
engineering  at  The  Firestone  Tire  &  Rubber 
Co.,  Akron,  Ohio,  has  been  promoted  to 
supervisor  of  private  brands  tire  engi- 
neering. ...  DR.  DAVID  H.  LAANANEN 
serves  as  a  project  engineer-aviation  safety 
at  Dynamic  Science,  Phoenix,  Arizona.  .  .  . 
WALTER  E.  LANKAU,  JR.,  is  senior  man- 
agement scientist  at  Management  Decision 
Systems,  Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  .  PETER 
MARSTON  has  been  named  engineer- 
electric  operations  in  the  Connecticut 
Light  and  Power  Company's  Willimantic 
district.  Marston  joined  the  firm  in  1964 
as  cadet  engineer  and  was  appointed 
junior  engineer  in  1965.  In  1966  he  was 
transferred  to  the  Berlin  office,  later  being 
reassigned  to  the  Willimantic  office  in  1 968 
as  assistant  engineer.  .  .  .  MASON  H. 
SOMERVILLE  received  his  Ph.D.  in  me- 
chanical engineering  from  Pennsylvania 
State  University  in  March.  .  .  .  GERALD  E. 
TAMMI  is  now  manager-automotive  prod- 
uct engineering  at  Fairchild  Semiconduc- 
tor, Mountain  View,  Calif.  .  .  .  SEYMOUR 
WILLIAMS  III  is  a  project  programmer  for 
Leeds  &  Northrup,  North  Wales,  Pa.  .  .  . 
DR.  ROBERT  A.  PEURA,  WPI  assistant 
professor  of  biomedical  and  electrical  en- 
gineering, will  read  his  paper,  "The  Meas- 
urement of  In  Vivo  Tissue  Transfer  Func- 
tions by  Cross  Correlation  Techniques  as 
it  Pertains  to  the  EKG  Conduction  System" 
which  he  prepared  with  STEEN  HAN- 
NIBAL (MS,  '72),  at  the  Third  Interna- 
tional Conference  on  Medical  Physics  in 
Gothenburg,  Sweden,  July  30-Aug.  4. 

1965 

DONALD  C.  CARLSON  is  bearing  en- 
gineering coordinator,  International  Di- 
vision, Torrington  Co.,  Torrington,  Conn. 
.  .  .  ALLEN  H.  DOWNS  is  an  electrical  en- 
gineer at  Electronic  Instrumentand  Special- 
ty Corp.,  Winchester,  Mass.,  where 
ROBERT  A.  PAINTER,  '43,  is  president. 
Al  says  to  be  sure  and  report,  "Al  Downs 
i finally  graduated — with  the  Class  of  1 971 1" 
He  also  writes,  "While  a  student  I  looked 
forward  to  graduating,  but  from  the  outside 
looking  back  in,  I  miss  WPI."  .  .  .  Area 
engineer  for  the  construction  division  of 
the  engineering  department  of  the  Du  Pont 
Co.,  Washington,  W.   Va.,  is   GLENN    P. 

IE  WPI  JOURNAL 


HURST.  .  .  .  JAMES  B.  KNITTER  is  one 
of  three  persons  who  founded  a  new  com- 
pany, Trimetrix,  Incorporated  on  March  1, 
1972  in  Norwood,  Mass.  Knitter,  who 
serves  the  company  as  vice  president  of 
engineering,  is  well  known  for  his  innova- 
tive analog  circuit  designs  used  in  over  36 
successful  modular  and  instrument  prod- 
ucts. He  has  authored  several  technical 
articles  and  has  two  patents  pending.  His 
previous  positions  include  manager  of 
analog  design,  Intronics,  Inc.;  design  group 
leader,  Teledyne  Philbrick  Co.;  project  en- 
gineer, Nexus  Research  Co.;  and  circuit 
designer,  Block  Engineering  Co. . . .  HENRY 
A.  SCHNECK  has  employment  as  a  civil 
engineer  in  the  planning  division  with  the 
Suffolk  County  Department  of  Public 
Works,  Long  Island,  N.Y. 

1966 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  SIGMUND  S. 
DICKER,  their  first  child,  a  daughter,  Lori 
Michele,  on  April  1 6,  1 972.  Sig  is  a  project 
manager  for  Diesel  Construction  Co.,  New 
York  City.  ...  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  J.  GARY 
DYCKMAN  a  daughter,  Jennifer  Anne,  on 
August  8,  1 971 .  Gary  is  an  engineer  in  the 
structural  division  of  Stone  and  Webster 
Engineering  Corp.,  Boston.  The  Dyckmans 
recently  purchased  a  home  in  Burlington, 
Mass.  ...  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  DONALD  W. 
PETERSON,  JR.,  a  son,  Kyle  Kirby,  in 
September  of  1971.  Don  is  a  systems  en- 
gineer with  IBM.  ...  To  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
LAWRENCE  A.  PENONCELLO,  a  son, 
Jamie  Lawrence,  on  May  1,  1972.  Larry  is 
a  general  foreman  at  the  Torrington  Co., 
Torrington,  Conn. 

L  THOMAS  BENOIT  is  treasurer  and 
sales  manager  of  Flame  Treating  and  En- 
gineering Co.,  West  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  . 
JOHN  W.  BENSON  II  is  with  U.  S.  Elec- 
trical Motors,  Milford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Presently 
employed  at  the  Electromagnetic  Com- 
patibility Analysis  Center  in  Annapolis, 
Md.,  is  JOHN  D.  CUTHBERTSON.  .  .  . 
ANDREW  J.  FISH,  JR.,  is  now  a  Captain 
in  the  U.S.  Air  Force.  .  .  .  GEORGE  H. 
FLYNN  is  with  Sanders  Corp.,  Nashua, 
N.H.  ...  DR.  JOHN  H.  LAUTERBACH 
currently  serves  as  a  project  supervisor  for 
the  Central  Technical  Evaluation  Group, 
National  Starch  &  Chemical  Corp.,  Plain- 
field,  N.J.  .  .  .  PAUL  R.  LINDBERG  of 
Augusta,  Me.,  is  self-employed  as  a  free- 
lance writer.  .  .  .  HUGH  R.  McMENAMY 
is  project  engineer  for  Esso  Research  & 
Engineering,  Florham  Park,  N.J.  .  .  .  JOHN 
P.  SEFER  IAD  IS  has  employment  as  a  senior 
civil  engineer  with  the  New  Bedford 
(Mass.)  Department  of  Public  Works.  .  .  . 
Professor  JOHN  D.  SHERRICK,  who  has 
been  on  the  faculty  of  Schenectady  (N.Y.) 
County  Community  College  since  1970, 
has  been  promoted  to  associate  professor 
in  the  department  of  science,  mathematics 
and  technology.  .  .  .  Mobil  Oil  Corp., 
Waltham,  Mass.,  employs  RONALD  A. 
TATA  as  district  engineer  in  the  Springfield 
area  where  he  also  resides.  .  .  .  DOUGLAS 
L.  VIZARD  recently  received  his  Ph.D.  in 
biophysics  from  Pennsylvania  State  Uni- 
versity where  he  pursued  a  DNA  sequence 


study  in  the  field  of  molecular  biology. 
Currently  residing  in  Houston,  Tex.,  he  is 
a  postdoctoral  fellow  in  the  department  of 
physics  at  the  M.  D.  Anderson  Hospital  and 
Tumor  Institute. 


1967 

Married:  JOSEPH  F.  KIERONSKI  and 
Miss  Roberta  Page,  February  19,  1972 
in  Middletown,  Connecticut.  The  bride 
teaches  mathematics  at  Pinkerton  Acad- 
emy, Derry,  N.H.  The  groom  is  a  civil  high- 
way engineer  with  the  Highway  and  Bridge 
Division  for  the  New  Hampshire  Depart- 
ment of  Public  Works.  .  .  .  JOHN  E. 
ROGOZENSKI,  JR.,  and  Judith  Ann  Fuller 
on  April  22,  1972  in  Medfield,  Massa- 
chusetts. The  bride  is  a  graduate  of  Colby 
Jr.  College.  Her  husband  received  a  degree 
from  the  University  of  Massachusetts 
Graduate  School  last  year. 

Capt.  HERBERT  R.  BROWN,  project 
engineer  with  the  6511th  Air  Force  Test 
Group  (Parachute)  at  the  El  Centro  Naval 
Air  Facility  (Calif.),  has  been  named  as  the 
group's  candidate  for  junior  officer  of  the 
year  award  given  annually  by  the  Air  Force 
Flight  Test  Center,  Edwards  Air  Force 
Base.  Officials  said  Capt.  Brown  was 
selected  for  this  honor  on  the  basis  of  his 
continuous,  outstanding  performance  in 
directing  the  testing  of  the  parachute  sys- 
tems to  be  used  in  the  crew  escape  capsule 
on  the  Air  Force's  new  B-1  bomber.  .  .  . 
Capt.  STEPHEN  B.  COTTER  has  been 
selected  Outstanding  Instructor  in  his  unit 
at  Moody  AFB,  Ga.  A  T-37  instructor  pilot, 
he  was  honored  for  his  effective  teaching 
techniques  and  exemplary  devotion  to  duty. 
He  is  assigned  to  a  unit  of  the  Air  Training 
Command  which  provides  flying,  technical 
and  basic  military  training  for  USAF  per- 
sonnel  RICHARD  E.  De  GENNARO  is 

an  MBA  candidate  at  the  Wharton  School, 
University  of  Pennsylvania  in  Philadelphia. 
. . .  RONALD  S.  GOSK  was  the  author  of  an 
article  concerned  with  pressurized  ink 
writing  for  graphic  representation  of  data 
which  recently  appeared  in  the  magazine, 
"Industrial  Research."  Presently  he  is 
analog  product  manager  for  Mechanics  for 
Electronics  Corp.  (MFE).  .  .  .  JOHN  M. 
KUENZLER  is  a  sales  engineer  with  The 
Foxboro  Company,  Foxboro,  Mass.  .  .  . 
ROY  P.  LINDQUIST  works  as  product 
engineer  for  Foxboro  Company,  Foxboro, 
Mass.  .  .  .  LEONARD  E.  ODELL,  assistant 
actuary  in  the  life  actuarial  department  at 
Aetna  Life  &  Casualty,  Hartford,  Conn.,  has 
been  designated  a  Fellow  in  the  Society  of 
Actuaries  upon  completion  of  all  the  ex- 
aminations. 

RICHARD  A.  ORMSBEE  has  been  em- 
ployed by  the  Best  Foods  Research  Center, 
Union,  N.J.  .  .  .  STANLEY  P.  PIETREWICZ 
is  systems  engineer  for  Tenneco,  Newport 

News,  Va ROBERT  E.  RICHARDSON, 

JR.,  is  an  engineer  at  the  Naval  Weapons 

Lab.,  Dahlgren,  Va SUDHIR  A.  SHAH 

has  employment  as  senior  structural  en- 
gineer at  James  P.  Purcell  Associates,  Inc., 
Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  RICHARD  SYMONDS 
is  with  Westinghouse  Electric,  Philadel- 
phia, Pa NELSON  F.  (SKIP)  THUNE 


37 


been  studying JOHN  S.  SIMPSON  to 

Miss  Jeanne  Marie  Drapeau  on  July  1, 
1972  in  Tiverton,  R.I.  Mrs.  Simpson  is  a 
teacher  in  the  Portsmouth  School  System. 
Her  husband  is  employed  at  the  Naval 
Underwater  Systems  Center  in  New- 
port. .  .  .  FRANCIS  W.  SKWIRA  to  Miss 
Gerald  Carreker  Fowler  on  June  24  in 
Atlanta,  Ga.  The  bride  has  received  a 
master's  degree  in  French  literature  from 
Emory  University  in  Atlanta.  The  groom  is 
employed  by  the  General  Electric  Co.,  San 
Jose,  Calif. 

RICHARD  D.  ALPERT  is  on  sabbatical 
leave  in  Europe.  . . .  STEPHEN  R.  ANDRU- 
CHOW  is  a  construction  engineer  for 
Stephen  Andruchow,  Inc.,  West  Warwick, 
R.I.  .  .  .  DAVID  W.  EATON  serves  as  sys- 
tems programmer  for  General  Electric 
Company,  Phoenix,  Arizona.  .  .  .  THOMAS 
C.  GURNEY  is  a  student  at  Central  Bible 
College,  Springfield,  Missouri.  .  .  .  ROY  C. 
JOHNSON,  JR.,  recently  received  his 
PhD  in  civil  engineering  from  Rice  Uni- 
versity, Houston,  Texas.  .  .  .  PHILIP  M. 
KAZEMERSKY  is  a  nuclear  engineer  for 
the  Tennessee  Valley  Authority  in  Chatta- 
nooga. .  .  .  Z.  RONALD  STELMAK  serves 
as  a  sales  engineer  for  Westinghouse  and 
is  currently  located  in  Syracuse,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
MICHAEL  W.  NOGA  has  employment 
with  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston.  .  .  .  CARL 
NOTHNICK  is  with  Westinghouse  Elec- 
tric, Baltimore,  Md.  .  .  .  STEPHEN  R. 
PHILLIPS  is  completing  his  thesis  for  his 
MS  in  industrial  design  at  the  Institute  of 
Design,  Illinois  Institute  of  Technology. 

GREGORY  E.  POLLACK  is  assistant 
marketing  manager  in  the  micrographic 
division  of  Canon  USA,  Inc.,  Lake  Success, 
N.Y.  .  .  .  GERALD  M.  ROBBINS  is  a 
graduate  student  in  the  department  of 
landscape  architecture  at  the  University  of 
Illinois.  .  .  .  RONALD  P.  ROSADINI  is  a 
teacher  in  the  Torrington,  Conn.  School 
System ROBERT  J.  SCOTT  is  a  gradu- 
ate student  in  city  and  regional  planning 
at  Cornell  University,  Ithaca,  N.Y. 

NEIL  M.  GLICKSTEIN  has  been  ap- 
pointed math-science  teacher  at  Home 
Base  School,  Watertown,  Mass. 

1970 

Married:  A.  PATTON  ABBE  II  to  Miss 
Christine  Driscoll  on  May  28,  1972  in 
Windham  Center,  Connecticut.  Abbe  is  the 
owner  of  Keats  Krafts  Clothing  Store  in 
Mystic,  Conn.  His  bride  is  employed  as  a 
model  for  the  portrait  painter,  Robert 
Brackman,  N.A.  of  Noank,  Conn.  .  .  . 
RICHARD  F.  ABRAMS  to  Miss  Jean  M. 
Parker  on  June  10  in  Spencer,  Mass.  The 
bride  is  an  elementary  art  teacher  in  the 
Spencer  schools.  Her  husband  is  with 
Artisan  Industries,  Waltham,  Mass. 

Married:  MARK  E.  BROWN  and  Miss 
Carolyn  Marie  Gilbertson  June  17,  1972 
in  Battle  Lake,  Minn.  Mrs.  Brown  has  com- 
pleted graduate  studies  in  social  work  at 
Washington  University,  St.  Louis.  Mr. 
Brown  is  a  candidate  for  a  doctorate  in 
chemical  engineering  at  the  University  of 
Minnesota,  Minneapolis.  .  .  .  RALPH 
DilORIO  to  Miss  Rosemary  Calcagno  in 


Seaford,  N.Y.  on  June  3.  Ralph  is  a  senior 
engineer  for  ATT  Long  Lines  Department. 

.  .  DUNCAN  H.  GILLIES  and  Miss 
Patricia  M.  Teczar  on  July  7,  1972  in 
Worcester,  Massachusetts.  The  bride 
teaches  at  Union  Hill  School.  The  bride- 
groom is  with  the  Massachusetts  Electric 
Co.  .  .  .  ROGER  P.  HENZE  to  Miss  Judy 
Lynn  Welch  in  North  Adams,  Massachu- 
setts on  July  15,  1972.  Mrs.  Henze  is  a 
student  at  North  Adams  State  College.  Mr. 
Henze  is  a  candidate  for  his  master's 
degree  in  city  and  regional  planning  from 
Cornell  University  this  year. 

KENNETH  C.  BASSMANN,  who  was 
recently  promoted  to  first  lieutenant  in  the 
U.S.  Air  Force,  has  received  an  award  for 
a  military  improvement  suggestion  which 
he  gave  at  Andrews  AFB,  Md.  He  is  a 
communication-electronics  officer  with 
the  Air  Force  Communications  Service.  .  .  . 
2/LT.  GERRY  A.  BLODGETT  has  com- 
pleted a  nine-week  ordnance  officer  basic 
course  at  the  Army  Ordnance  Center  and 
School,  Aberdeen  Proving  Ground,  Mary- 
land. .  .  .  JAMES  HANNOOSH  was 
awarded  a  master  of  science  degree  in 
mechanical  engineering  from  MIT  last 
June.  He  has  been  accepted  for  the 
doctoral  program  in  the  field  of  material 

behavior  at  MIT IERRY  L.  JOHNSON, 

who  received  his  MS  from  Holy  Cross  this 
year,  is  starting  his  PhD  program  at 
Dartmouth  College,  Hanover,  N.H.,  this 
fall.  .  .  .  PETER  F.  LALOR  was  recently 
awarded  his  master's  degree  in  metallurgy 
from  the  University  of  Connecticut.  .  .  . 
JOHN  J.  LYONS  is  a  systems  programmer 
for  WPI KALVIN  W.  NGOON  is  a  pro- 
gramming trainee  at  State  Mutual  Life 
Assurance  Co.,  Worcester.  .  .  .  1/LT. 
DENNIS  L  NOVAK  has  completed  the 
four-week  Army  Alaska  Summer  Leader's 
Course  at  the  Northern  Warfare  Training 
Center,  Ft.  Greely,  Alaska.  He  is  a  platoon 
leader  at  Ft.  Wainwright,  Alaska.  .  .  . 
GEORGE  E.  PHILIPPON  has  been  named 
systems  manager,  Identicard  division  of 
Management  Service  Associates,  Lan- 
caster, Pa. . . .  ROSS  A.  WILLOUGHBY  is  a 
sales  representative  for  Air  Way  Sales, 
Worcester. 

LAURENCE  P.  VALLEE  has  received 
his  MS  degree  in  civil  engineering  from 
the  University  of  Connecticut.  He  has 
accepted  a  position  with  the  structural  firm 
of  Stone  and  Webster  Engineering  Corp., 
Boston. 

1971 

Married:  ANTHONY  SCHEPIS  to  Miss 
Laura  Candace  Fabrizio  in  Quincy,  Massa- 
chusetts on  May  21,  1972.  Mrs.  Schepis, 
a  graduate  of  Forsyth  Dental  School  and 
Northeastern  University,  is  employed  as  a 
dental  assistant.  Her  husband  is  an 
industrial  engineer  at  Sealy  Mattress  Co., 
Randolph,  Mass. 

Married:  DAVID  P.  BUELOW  and 
Miss  Helen  M.  Laptewicz  on  June  10, 
1972  in  Westboro,  Massachusetts.  Mrs. 
Buelow  is  a  graduate  of  Salter  Secretarial 
School,  Worcester.  David  is  with  the  U.S. 
Army  Corps  of  Engineers  in  Waltham.  .  .  . 


STEVEN  G.  EMERY  to  Miss  Mary  Evelyn 
Jackman  July  15,  1972  in  New  Haven 
Connecticut.  The  bride  is  a  registerei 
nurse  with  the  Visiting  Nurse  Associatio 
of  Worcester.  The  groom  is  in  the  cardiolog 
department    at     St.     Vincent's     Hospital 

Worcester ROBERT  P.  HART  and  Mis: 

Elizabeth  T.  Cushwa  on  July  8  in  South 
Hadley,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Hart  is  a 
graduate  of  Framingham  State  College. 
Her  husband  is  a  design  engineer  at  Norden 
Company,  Norwalk,  Conn. 

Married:  DOUGLAS  E.  HOLMES  to 
Miss  Christine  F.  Holda  on  June  24,  1972 
in  Worcester,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Holmes 
is  a  kindergarten  teacher.  The  groom  is  a 
graduate  student  in  the  material  sciences 
division  of  the  University  of  Connecticut, 
Storrs.  .  .  .  JEFFREY  P.  LASSEY  and  Miss 
Lynne  K.  Maniero  on  June  25,  1972  in 
Worcester.  The  bride,  a  graduate  of 
Worcester  State  College,  is  a  teacher.  Her 
husband  is  with  New  England  Electrical 
Co.,  Weymouth,  Mass.  .  .  .  EDWARD  C. 
LOWE,  III  to  Miss  Judith  S.  Cogswell  on 
July  8,  1972  in  Longmeadow,  Massachu- 
setts. Mrs.  Lowe  is  a  French  teacher.  The 
bridegroom  is  a  sales  engineer  employed 
by  General  Electric  of  Schenectady,  N.Y. 
.  .  .  2/LT  PETER  J.  MARKUNAS  and 
Miss  Victoria  R.  Chicoine  on  May  1 3,  1 972 
in  Leicester,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Markunas 
is  a  graduate  of  Ward  Business  School. 
Her  husband  is  a  candidate  for  his  master's 
degree  in  mechanical  engineering  at  WPI. 
.  .  .  SPAFFORD  A.  MARTINDALE,  JR. 
and  Miss  Betteanne  Mitchell  in  Worcester,  i 
Massachusetts.  The  bride  is  an  alumna  of 
Anna  Maria  College. 

Married:  VINCENT  T.  PACE  and  Miss 
Maryann  Bagdis  on  June  10,  1972  in 
Grafton,  Massachusetts.  DONALD  TAN- 
ANA  and  FRANK  STEINER  were  ushers. 
Maryann,  a  former  WPI  student,  is  a 
senior  at  Drexel  Institute  of  Technology 
in  Philadelphia.  Her  husband  is  an  elec- 
trical engineer  at  Philadelphia  Electric  Co. 
.  .  .  RICHARD  B.  HOPEWELL  to  Miss 
Claudia  Louise  Secrist  July  1,  1972  in 
Needham,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Hopewell 
is  a  music  education  teacher.  The  bride- 
groom is  doing  graduate  work  at  WPI.  .  .  . 
NORMAN  W.  SOUSA,  JR.,  to  Miss 
Barbara  K.  Phillips  on  July  1,  1972  in 
Pearl  River,  N.Y.  EDWARD  J.  SHERMAN 
was  best  man.  The  bride  is  a  Becker 
Junior  College  graduate.  Her  husband  is 
with  the  Sousa  Corp.,  West  Hartford, 
Conn.  .  .  .  PAUL  R.  SWENSON  and  Miss 
Elaine  M.  Zoppo  on  June  24,  1972  in 
Paxton,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Swenson,  a 
graduate  of  Becker  Junior  College,  is  a 
senior  at  The  Memorial  Hospital  School  of 
Nursing.  The  bridegroom  is  a  field  engineer 
for  Granger  Contracting  Co.,  Worcester. 

Married:  JOHN  ANDERSON  and  Miss 
Josephine  Vanni  in  April  in  Ho-Ho-Kus, 
New  Jersey.  Mrs.  Vanni  is  a  graduate  of 
Newton  College  of  the  Sacred  Heart,  New- 
ton, Mass.  Her  husband  is  with  Public 
Service  Electric  and  Gas  Co.,  Newark,  N.J. 
EDWARD  "NED"  CUNNINGHAM  was 
best  man.  Ushers  were  GARY  MASON, 
PAUL  RUSSO,  and  ROBERT  KELLEY. 


■: 

si 
r 

L 

- 


r 

: 


: 


46 


THE  WPI  JOURNA' 


CHIA-SOON  KU  is  a  graduate  student 
in  the  Department  of  Chemical  Engineering, 
Pennsylvania  State  University,  University 
Park,  Pa.  .  .  .  ALAN  SHAPIRO,  who  is 
currently  home  on  leave  from  his  duties 
with  the  Peace  Corps  in  Ecuador,  expects 
to  return  soon  to  finish  out  his  two-year 
enlistment.  Recently  a  full  page  of  photos 
he  took  in  that  South  American  country 
was  published  in  the  Transcript,  North 
Adams,  Mass. 

PAUL  B.  ASH  has  earned  his  master  of 
arts  degree  in  teaching,  with  an  education 
major,  from  the  University  of  Massachusetts 
at  Amherst.  .  .  .  THOMAS  R.  BALL  is  em- 
ployed by  Astra  Pharmaceutical  Products, 
Inc.,  Worcester,  in  the  area  of  data  com- 
puter-research and  development.  .  .  . 
MICHAEL  J.  GRADY  is  a  software  systems 
engineer  at  Honeywell  Information  Sys- 
tems, Inc.,  Cambridge,  Mass.  .  .  .  UM- 
BERTO  MILANO  is  with  the  U.S.  Bureau 
of  Reclamation,  Denver,  Colo. . . .  MARTYN 
H.  STRONG  has  received  his  master  of 
engineering  in  electric  power  engineering 
at  RPI,  Troy,  N.Y.  He  is  returning  to  RPI 
this  year  to  study  for  his  master's  degree  in 
environmental  engineering.  .  .  .  JAMES  E. 
TROUTMAN,  JR.  is  currently  a  computer 
instructor  at  Lowry  AFB,  Colo. 


1972 

I  Married:  GARY  A.  FOOTE  and  Miss 
Catherine  E.  Bogard  on  May  27,  1972  in 
A/orcester,  Massachusetts.  The  bride  is  a 
graduate  of  the  University  of  Connecticut. 
.  .  MICHAEL  W.  THAYER  to  Miss  Cyn- 
:hia  Ellen  Roff  last  spring.  Mrs.  Thayer 
graduated  from  Wheaton  College.  .  .  . 
°ETER  A.  BERTASI  and  Miss  Janet  A. 
Juzwinski  in  New  Britain,  Connecticut  on 
June  17,  1972.  The  bride  has  been  study- 
ng  for  her  BS  degree  in  education  at 
Central  Connecticut  State  College.  The 
)ridegroom  is  a  graduate  student  in  busi- 
tess  administration  at  the  University  of 
Rochester,  N.Y.  .  .  .  DOUGLAS  E.  BEST  to 
i/liss  Claudia  J.  Taylor  in  East  Long- 
neadow,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Best  at- 
ended  Salem  State  College  and  graduated 
rom  Chandler  School  for  Women,  Boston, 
fer  husband  is  employed  by  Heald  Corp., 
Vorcester. 

I  Married:  CHARLES  J.  BRINE  and  Miss 
'atricia  Ann  Rimo  on  June  3, 1  972  in  New 
Srunswick,  N.J.  The  bride  is  an  alumna  of 
louglass  College  in  New  Brunswick.  Both 
he  and  her  husband  plan  to  attend  gradu- 
te  school.  The  groom  expects  to  enter  the 
College  of  Marine  Studies  (Chemical 
Iceanography)  at  the  University  of 
lelaware  where  he  will  enroll  in  the  PhD 
rogram.  .  .  .  MARK  C.  DUPUIS  and  Miss 
aren  F.  Fitzgibbon  in  Lunenburg,  Massa- 
husetts.  Mrs.  Dupuis  graduated  from 
itchburg  State  College.  The  groom  is  in 
roduction  management  at  Procter  and 
iamble  in  Quincy,  Mass.  .  .  .  LOUIS  A. 
ERRARESI,  JR.,  to  Miss  Susan  Ann 
ones  on  June  18,  1972  in  Worcester, 
lassachusetts.  Mrs.  Ferraresi  graduated 
om  Emmanuel  College,  Boston.  Her 
usband  is  a  controls-systems  engineer  for 


manufacturers  of 

Double-Seal  Ball  Valves 

Wafer-Sphere  Butterfly  Valves 

JFC  Control  Valves 

Jamesbury  Corp.  •  640  Lincoln  Street  •  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 


Stone     &     Webster     Engineering     Corp., 

Boston GEORGE  A.  OLIVER  and  Miss 

Barbara  Frances  Davis  on  June  10,  1972 
in  Bedford,  Massachusetts.  The  bride  is 
a  graduate  of  Westfield  State  College.  The 
bridegroom  is  attending  California  Insti- 
tute of  Technology,  Pasadena DONALD 

J.  POLONIS  and  Miss  Patricia  Ann 
Theresa  Yarusawych  in  Easthampton, 
Massachusetts  on  June  10,  1972.  The 
bridegroom  has  accepted  a  teaching  fellow- 
ship at  Union  College,  Schenectady,  N.Y., 
where  he  is  working  for  his  master's  degree 
in  operations  research  in  the  School  of 
Industrial  Administration.  .  .  .  MARCELLO 
A.  RANALLI  to  Miss  Diane  Rose  Bianco 
on  June  10,  1972  in  Worcester.  Mrs. 
Ranalli  is  a  casualty  rater  at  Travelers 
Insurance  Co. 

JOSEPH  BIANCA  is  working  for  Com- 
bustion Engineering,  Windsor,  Conn.  He  is 
a  research  and  product  development  engi- 
neer in  the  company's  Kreisinger  Develop- 
ment Laboratory.  .  .  .  ROBERT  A.  COLP  is 
a  graduate  student  at  the  University  of 
Wisconsin,  Madison.  .  .  .  Currently  DR. 
RAYMOND  M.  FISH  is  employed  by  the 
National  Institute  of  Health  in   Bethesda, 

Md ANDREW  J.  GLAZIER  is  with  the 

U.S.  Army  Corps  of  Engineers ROBERT 

L.  LYONS  is  with  the  field  service  support 
group   at    Leeds    &    Northrup   Co.,    North 

Wales,  Pa FRANK  D.  McMAHON  has 

employment  as  a  sales  trainee  for  W.  R. 
Grace,  Pontiac,  Mich.  .  .  .  ROBERT  I. 
PARRY  has  accepted  a  position  with  the 
Philadelphia  Electric  Company. 

ROBERT  M.  PASUCCI  is  a  transporta- 
tion planner  at  Raymond,  Parish,  &  Pine, 

White  Plains,  N.Y JEFFREY  A.  PETRY 

is  with  the  Torrington  Company,  Torring- 
ton.  Conn.  .  .  .  GARY  E.  RAND  serves  as 
an  associate  engineer  at  Raytheon  Co., 
Wayland,  Mass.  .  .  .  W.  J.  Megon  &  Co., 
Naugatuck,  Conn.,  employs  EDWARD  D. 
SCHRULL  as  assistant  project  manager. 
.  .  .  WALTER  J.  SMITH  was  commissioned 
an  ensign  in  the  U.S.  Navy  Reserve  in 
September.  He  has  been  at  the  Naval 
Officer  Training   Center  in   Newport,   R.I. 


.  .  .  KENNETH  R.  WADLAND  is  a  graduate 
assistant  in  the  math  department  at  the 
University  of  New  Hampshire. 

ROBERT  M.  BYRNE  has  employment 
at  The  Gazebo,  Torrington,  Conn.  He  is  also 
president  of  the  Torrington  Men's  Choral 
Club.  .  .  .  ROBERT  S.  AMES  plans  to  do 
graduate  work  in  mathematics  at  Syracuse 

University  this  fall GLENN  E.  CABANA 

has  been  employed  by  Western  Electric, 
North  Andover,  Mass.  .  .  .  DOUGLAS  B. 
HARRINGTON  is  a  technical  marketing 
program  trainee  at  the  General  Electric 
Company.  .  .  .  JOHN  D.  KALETSKI  holds 
the  position  of  manager  at  Clairol,  Stam- 
ford, Conn.  .  .  .  WALTER  R.  MclLVEEN 
serves  as  a  designer  for  Walter  Mcllveen 
Associates,  Avon,  Conn.  .  .  .  JOHN  C. 
MOORE  is  a  field  service  engineer  for  the 
power  division  of  Westinghouse,  Minne- 
apolis, Minn.  .  .  .  Uniroyal  Chemical  Divi- 
sion, Naugatuck,  Conn.,employsTHOMAS 
A.  REYNOLDS  as  a  process  engineer.  .  .  . 
MARK  F.  SAMEK  is  a  graduate  student  at 
WPI LESLEY  E.  SMALL  has  employ- 
ment as  a  staff  engineer  for  the  Southern 
New  England  Telephone  Co.,  New  Haven, 
Conn.  .  .  .  THOMAS  J.  TRACY  is  with 
Stone  &  Webster,  Boston.  Mass.  .  .  .  LT. 
STEPHEN  A.  WILKINSON  expects  to  be 
assigned  to  Ft.  Bragg,  N.C.  .  .  .  WALTER 
L.  BALLARD  recently  joined  Eastman 
Kodak  Company,  Rochester,  N.Y.  and  has 
been  assigned  as  a  development  engineer 
with  the  Apparatus  Division.  .  .  .  JOHN  G. 
CROFT,  JR.,  SIM,  is  assistant  purchasing 
manager,  Wyman-Gordon,  Worcester.  .  .  . 
HENRY  E.  HIRVI,  SIM,  is  a  project  leader 
at  Cincinnati  Milacron-Heald  Corp., 
Worcester.  .  .  .  GUS  L  SANNICANDRO, 
SIM,  serves  as  engineering  design  super- 
visor for  Fenwal,  Inc.,  Ashland,  Mass. 

HOWARD  H.  LEVINE  is  in  the  depart- 
ment of  physics  at  the  University  of 
Illinois.  .  .  .  JEFFREY  ASKANAZI  is  a 
medical  student  at  Upstate  (N.Y.)  Medical 
Center.  .  .  .    RICHARD  J.  WALLACE  is 

studying  at  WPI KURT  M.  WUSTER- 

BARTH  has  accepted  employment  at  the 
Goodyear  Tire  &  Rubber  Co. 


" 


WPI  JOURNAL 


47 


of  Engineering. . . .  JAMES  G.  GARRAHAN 
started  work  in  March  as  an  analyst  for  the 
Computer  Sciences  Corporation  in  the  Soft- 
ware Application  Division.  He  is  closely 
concerned  through  a  company  contract 
with  the  Goddard  Space  Flight  Center.  In 
this  capacity  he  uses  celestial  mechanics 
to  investigate  problems  that  a  satellite  in  a 
synchronous  orbit  might  incur  before  the 
1 973  actual  launch  date.  He  is  a  supporting 
member  of  the  launch  team.  .  .  .  LEO  R. 
GILLIS,  JR.,  is  an  engineer  in  training  at 
New  England  Power  Co.,  Westboro,  Mass. 
DOUGLAS  E.  HOLMES,  who  is  working 
for  his  Ph.D.  at  the  University  of  Con- 
necticut, is  a  teaching  assistant  in  the 
chemistry  department.  .  .  .  RICHARD  B. 
HOPEWELL  is  studying  for  his  master's 
degree  at  WPI.  .  .  .  Airman  LOUIS  R. 
HOWAYECK  has  graduated  from  the  U.S. 
Air  Force  supply  inventory  specialist 
course  conducted  by  the  Air  Training  Com- 
mand at  Lowry  AFB,  Colo.  The  airman", 
trained  to  inventory  supplies  by  use  of 
electronic  data  processing  machines,  is 
being  assigned  to  Otis  AFB,  Mass.,  for 
duty  with  a  unit  of  the  Tactical  Air  Com- 
mand which  provides  combat  units  for  air 
support  of  U.S.  ground  forces. .  . .  ERNEST 
R.  JOYAL  is  an  engineer  in  training'at  the 
Naval    Ship    Engineering    Center,    Hyatts- 


ville,  Md.  .  .  .  STEPHEN  P.  KATZ  is  em- 
ployed as  a  special  projects  supervisor  at 
Beechmont,  Inc.,  Canajoharie,  N.Y.  In  the 
evenings  he  attends  Union  College  where 
he  is  in  the  Industrial  Administration  De- 
partment. .  .  .  DOUGLAS  A.  KEILY  is  with 
the  Department  of  Environmental  Pro- 
tection, Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  DANIEL  F. 
KING  works  as  a  junior  chemist  for  New 
England  Nuclear  Corp.,  Boston.  .  .  . 
MICHAEL  S.  LATKA  is  fire  prevention  en- 
gineer for  Kemper  Insurance  Co.,  Boston. 
.  .  .  WILLIAM  G.  LIGHT,  who  is  studying 
for  his  master's  degree  in  chemistry  at  the 
University  of  California,  Berkeley,  expects 
to  start  on  his  Ph.D.  in  environmental 
health  sciences  in  the  fall  of  1 972.  . .  .  Cur- 
rently CLAUDE  P.  MANCEL  is  a  graduate 
student  at  WPI.  .  .  .  Sister  DONALD 
MARIE  SSJ  is  head  of  the  Mathematics 
Department  at  St.  Peter's  Central  Catholic 
High  School,  Worcester.  .  .  .  RICHARD 
J.  MATTES,  associate  engineer,  works  for 
New  England  Telephone,  Boston. 

ROBERT  A.  PACE  currently  holds  the 
position  of  design  engineer  at  Electric 
Boat,  Groton,  Conn.  .  .  .  PAUL  T.  POSCO 
studies  as  a  graduate  student  at  Cornell 
University.  .  .  .  Gordon  Library,  WPI,  em- 
ploys NORMAN  D.  POWERS,  program- 
mer. .  .  .  Army  Specialist  Four  JOHN  R. 


PRATT  recently  completed  with  honors  a 
28-week  tactical  microwave  systems  re- 
pairman course  at  the  Army  Signal  School, 
Ft.  Monmouth,  N.J.  .  .  .  Airman  1/c 
GORDON  R.  PETERSON  has  been  named 
Outstanding  Airman  of  the  Quarter  in  his 
Unit  at  Croughton  RAF  Station,  England. 
Peterson,  an  electrical  systems  repairman, 
was  selected  for  his  leadership,  exemplary 
conduct,  and  duty  performance.  .  .  .  ED- 
WARD J.  SHERMAN,  JR.,  is  in  the  Air 
Force.  .  .  .  PAUL  B.  SULLIVAN  is  with 
Western  Electric  Co.  (Bell  Labs),  Madison, 
N.J.  .  .  .  CALEB  H.  THOMAS,  JR.,  is  asso- 
ciated with  Mohawk  Data  Sciences,  East 
Herkimer,  N.Y.  .  .  .  Airman  JAMES  E. 
TROUTMAN,  JR.,  has  completed  basic 
training  at  Lackland  AFB,  Texas.  He  has 
been  assigned  to  Keesler  AFB,  Miss.,  for 
training    in    communications    electronics 

systems Dr.  RICHARD  A.  TUFT,  who 

has  been  a  senior  member  of  the  technical 
staff  at  RCA,  Burlington,  has  been  ap- 
pointed assistant  professor  of  physics  at 
WPI.  Dr.  Tuft  received  his  doctorate  in 
physics  from  WPI  last  year.  .  .  .  KENT  VAN 
HEUKELOM  serves  as  a  teacher  aide  in 
Central  Falls,  N.Y.  .  .  .  2/Lt.  PETER  B. 
WELLES  has  completed  a  nine-week 
ranger  course  at  the  U.S.  Army  Infantry 
School,  Ft.  Benning,  Ga. 


Engineering  .  .  .  . 
for  a  world  in  need 


As  living  becomes  more  competitive  .  .  .  more  compact  .  .  .  and 
more  complex,  the  world  looks  with  increasing  frequency  to  science 
and  engineering  for  creative  solutions  to  its  wants  and  to  its  needs. 
And  at  the  Heald  Machine  Division  of  Cincinnati  Milacron,  creative 
research  and  development  engineers  thrive  on  the  daily  challenge  to 
provide  the  metalworking  industry  with  more  productive,  more  effi- 
cient and  more  reliable  machine  tools. 


In  the  past,  Heald  has  traditionally 
produced  machines  which  have  in 
many  cases  surpassed  industry's 
needs,  but  the  demands  are  be- 
coming greater  as  the  challenge 
continues.  So  Heald  engineers  con- 
tinue to  explore  new  techniques 
and  to  design  modern  machine 
tools  that  reflect  fresh  ideas  and 
creative  thinking. 

The  results  of  this  kind  of  engi- 
neering can  be  seen  in  the  Heald 
products  of  today.  Numerically 
Controlled  Acracenters  and  Bore- 
matics    that    literally    "think    for 


themselves"  while  producing  bet- 
ter quality  parts  in  far  less  time. 
Heald  Controlled  Force  internal 
grinders  prove  themselves  as  lead- 
ers by  consistently  attaining  new 
levels  of  productivity  and  quality. 

Heald's  newest  development,  a 
rotary  electro-chemical  machining 
process,  offers  industry  a  practical 
way  to  perform  precision  machin- 
ing operations  on  "difficult  to  ma- 
chine" conductive  materials  such 
as  high  strength,  high  temperature 
alloys.  Using  electro-chemical  ma- 
chining, stock  removal   rates  are 


unaffected  by  material  hardness  so 
production  rates  are  substantially 
increased. 

The  continuation  of  this  type  of 
creative  thinking  and  fresh  ideas 
will  be  spurred  on  by  the  chal- 
lenge of  the  1970's  and  the  need 
to  meet  the  ever-changing  require- 
ments of  our  shrinking  world. 


c 


CINCINNATI 
MILACRON 

Heald  Machine  Division 
Worcester,  Mass.  01606 


40 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Coming 
Coming 

Coming 
Coming 
Home  Comini! 

October  14 


>  i 


We  found  the  right  combination 

for  Norton  Borazon  wheels. 

It  opens  up  a  lot  of  possibilities  for  you. 


Now  the  spectacular  grinding 
capabilities  of  Borazon  abrasive 
really  come  into  their  own. . .  in 
Norton  Borazon  wheels.  Norton 
research  engineers  have  unlocked 
the  full  potential  of  this  amazing 
abrasive  with  their  unique  custom- 
tailored  bonds.  Borazon  wheels 
save  more  time  and  money  than 
ever  on  today's  toughest  tool  steel 
grinding  jobs. 


Norton  custom-tailored  bonds 
area  precise  combination  of 
special  additives,  meticulously 
blended  and  processed  to  cope 
with  the  heat  generated  during 
grinding,  and  minimize  bond 
wear  by  the  material  being 
ground.  The  result?  High,  constant 
cutting  ability  in  a  wheel  that 
keeps  on  cutting. 

In  short,  you  can  do  more 
with  Borazon  when  you  do  it  with 
Norton  Borazon  wheels.  Use  them 


toputa  profitable  plus  in  your 
internal  grinding,  tool  sharpening 
and  wet  surface  and  cylindrical 
grinding  jobs. 

Get  the  complete  story  from 
your  nearby  Norton  Distributor. 
Norton  Company,  Grinding 
Wheel  Division,  Worcester, 
Massachusetts  0 1  606. 


NORTON 


GRINDING  WHEELS 


.  a  decade  of  progress  complete 


A 

different 

breed 


Ready  to  take  on  any  challenge.  Sure-footed 
ability.  Lean  and  hungry  for  the  chance  to 
solve  your  parts  problems  through  forging. 
That's  Wyman-Gordon 


Wyman-Gordon  Company,  Worcester,  Mass. 


Chicago.  Detroit,  Dayton.  Los  Angeles,  Fort  Worth,  Seattle.  Bombay,  Geneva 


■mm  ■ 

journal 


Vol.  76,  no.  3 
October.  1972 


Editor 

H.  Russell  Kay 

Alumni  Information  Editor 

Ruth  A.  Trask 

Publications  Committee 

Walter  B.  Dennen,  Jr.,  '51,  Chairman 

Donald  F.  Berth,  '57 

Robert  C.  Gosling,  '68 

Enfried  T.  Larson,  '22 

Rev.  Edward  I.  Swanson,  '45 

Richard  DeChard,  '56 

Published  for  the  Alumni  Association 
by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 

Copyright©  1972  by 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 
All  rights  reserved. 


WPI   Alumni  Association   Officers 

President: 

I.  J.  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44 

Vice  Presidents: 

B.  E.  Hosmer,  '61 
W.  J.  Bank,  '46 

Secretary-  Treasurer: 
S.  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President: 
R.  E.  Higgs,  '40 

Executive  Committee, 
Members -at- Large: 

C.  C.  Bonin,  '38;  F.  S.  Harvey,  '37; 
C.  W.  Backstrom,  '30;  L.  Polizzotto,  '70 

Fund  Board: 

G.  F.  Crowther,  '37;  R.  F.  Burke,  Jr., 
'38;  L.  A.  Penoncello,  '66;  W.  J. 
Charow,  '49;  H.  I.  Nelson,  '54 


IN  THIS  ISSUE 

A  Decade  of  Progress  Complete  page  two 

Roy  A.  Seaberg,  Jr., '56,  former  editor  of  the  Journal  and  now  a  member  of  the  WPI 
admissions  staff,  gives  an  overall  view  of  the  ten-year  development  program  which  began 
in  1  963  and  was  successfully  concluded  this  spring. 

Beyond  the  Bricks  and  Mortar page  six 

A  look  into  what  the  four  newest  buildings  at  WPI  have  meant  to  those  who  use  them. 

Chairs  Aren't  Always  to  Sit  In page  thirteen 

Ruth  Trask  interviews  the  holders  of  the  four  most  recently  endowed  professorships  at 
WPI. 

13  Big  Issues  Facing  Higher  Education page  sixteen 

A  special  report  about  the  general  concerns  of  higher  education  in  America  today. 

Directory  of  Alumni  Association  Chapter  Officers  .       .       .  page  thirty-five 

WPI  Alumni  Trustee  Positions page  thirty-seven 

The  Fiddle-Maker page  thirty-nine 

Help  for  Partially  Sighted          page  forty-five 

Alumni  Association  Recognition  inside  back  cover 

The  recipients  of  the  Goddard  and  Taylor  Awards  in  June,  plus  the  Class  of  1 922  50th 
Reunion  Gift. 

DEPARTMENTS 

Feedback 33 

Completed  Careers 36 

Your  Class  and  Others  38 


The  WPI  Journal  is  published  six  times  a  year 
in  August,  September,  October,  December, 
February,  April.  Second  class  postage  paid  at 
Worcester,  Massachusetts.  Postmaster:  Please 
send  form  3579  to  Alumni  Association, 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester. 
Mass.  01609. 


"HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


A  Decade  of 
Progress  Complete 


by  Roy  A.  Seaberg,  Jr.,  '56 


PRIDE  IN  OUR  PAST,  FAITH  IN  OUR  FUTURE  was 
the  slogan  which  keynoted  the  Centennial  Fund 
program  announced  in  1963.  Most  WPI  alumni 
probably  remember  that  three-year  drive.  And  most  have 
by  now  probably  forgotten  that  the  Centennial  Fund  was 
only  the  beginning  phase  of  a  ten-year,  $23  million 
development  program. 

Well,  we'd  like  to  bring  you  up  to  date.  As  of  now,  the 
original  program  has  met  and  surpassed  its  goal  by 
$500,000,  and  it  did  it  a  year  ahead  of  schedule. 


Beginnings  and  New  Beginnings 

"Although  we  formally  kick  off  the  Centennial  Fund 
tonight,"  said  Fund  Chairman  Philip  M.  Morgan  in  1964, 
"we  do  so  with  quite  a  running  start.  We  begin  our  efforts 
with  a  head  start  of  $3,085,869.90."  That  $3  million  was 
to  grow  to  $15,400,545.65  before  the  Centennial  Fund  was 
concluded  in  1967.  The  originally  announced  goal  for  the 
three-year  program  had  been  $15  million. 


y  y  We  begin  our 
efforts  with  a  head 
start. 

—  Philip  M.  Morgan 


This  past  June,  Milton  P.  Higgins,  chairman  of  the  WPI 
Board  of  Trustees,  announced  the  completion  of  the 
ten-year  program.  "The  faith  that  Phil  Morgan  and  all  of  us 
had  in  1964  when  we  set  out  upon  this  task  has  been 
renewed  again,"  said  Higgins.  "As  we  plan  for  the  next  ten 
years  we  can  do  so  with  increased  confidence  that  the 
progress  of  the  past  decade  has  placed  WPI  in  a  secure  but 


not  complacent  position.  Our  slogan  for  the  Centennial 
Fund  was  'Pride  in  our  Past,  Faith  in  our  Future.'  It  would 
seem  that  we  were  entirely  justified  in  that  faith." 


The  Accomplishments  .  .  . 

The  original  ten-year  plan  was  WPI's  most  ambitious 
undertaking.  Under  it,  the  following  achievements  were 
realized: 

•  Four  new  buildings  were  built  on  campus  (the  George  C. 
Gordon  Library,  the  Harrington  Auditorium,  the  Alden 
Research  Laboratories'  Building  Number  One,  and  the 
Stoddard  Residence  Center) 

•  Four  new  faculty  professorships  were  endowed  (the 
George  I.  Alden  Professor  of  Engineering,  the  George  F. 
Fuller  Professor  of  Mechanical  Engineering,  the  Harold 
J.  Gay  Professor  of  Mathematics,  and  the  Leonard  P. 
Kinnicutt  Professor  of  Chemistry) 

•  Improvements  were  made  to  eighteen  existing  campus 
buildings  and  other  facilities  (including  major  renovation 
to  Daniels  Commons,  Alumni  Field,  Salisbury  Labora- 
tories, and  most  of  the  previously  existing  departmental 
libraries) 

•  Funds  were  set  aside  for  increased  endowment,  faculty 
salaries,  financial  aid,  and  operational  expenses. 


And  the  Growth  .  .  . 

It  has  been  a  decade  of  unparalleled  growth  for  WPI.  At  the 

June  Trustees'  meeting,  President  George  W.  Ilazzard  gave 

this  breakdown: 

•  "WPI's  enrollment  grew  from  1294  students  (of  whom 
1191  were  undergraduates  and  103  were  graduate 
students)  to  last  September's  figures  which  showed 
1,945  undergraduates  and  295  graduate  students,  for  a 
total  enrollment  of  2.240  students."  This  represents  an 
increase  of  7  3  per  cent. 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


"The  full-time  faculty  has  grown  from  124  to  170." 
This  represents  an  increase  of  37  per  cent,  and  indicates 
that  the  student-faculty  ratio  has  gone  from  10:1  to 
13:1  during  the  nine-year  span. 

"The  college's  endowment  has  grown  from  $17  million 
to  $28.9  million,  including  appreciation  of  funds."  An 
increase  of  70  per  cent. 


And  the  Problems  .  .  . 

With  the  growth,  and  with  the  economic  and  social  changes 
that  affected  the  late  1960s,  WPI  has  experienced  its  share 
of  related  problems.  At  the  conclusion  of  the  Centennial 
Fund  in  1965,  President  Harry  Storke  reflected:  "We  now 
have  completed  phase  one,  and  for  this  we  are  all  thankful. 
But  where  do  we  go  from  here?  The  most  obvious  fact 
which  confronts  us  when  we  contemplate  tomorrow  from 
today  is  that  our  estimates  of  yesterday  were  less  than 
adequate." 

In  the  period  1967-1971,  WPI  along  with  virtually  every 
college  and  university  in  the  United  States  found  itself  in  a 
position  of  deficit  financing.  To  close  the  gap  between 
income  and  expenses,  a  number  of  steps  were  taken.  Budget 
controls  were  sharpened,  fund-raising  activities  were 
stepped  up,  tuition  was  raised  from  $2,100  to  its  current 
$2,650,  and  a  one-year  moratorium  on  wage  increases  was 
instituted. 

But  these  measures  were  simply  not  enough.  As 
Chairman  Higgins  reported,  nearly  $1  million  from  the 
Centennial  Fund  was  used  for  operational  purposes  prior  to 
1971.  That  money,  originally  intended  as  capital,  had  to  be 
used  to  pay  the  bills. 

As  President  Storke  had  noted  in  1967  when  he 
predicted  these  problems:  "It's  not  that  we  were  poor 
estimators,  or  that  we  were  overcautious.  .  .  It  is  simply, 
and  I  am  sure  that  this  comes  as  no  surprise  to  any  of  you, 
that  the  pace  of  scientific  progress  in  our  world  of  today 
has  accelerated  beyond  the  ability  of  any  of  us  to  foresee 
three  years  ago.  And  equally,  there  is  no  one  here  today 
who  does  not  fully  understand  that  this  accelerating  pace  of 
progress  has  been  accomplished  accompanied  by  escalating 
costs  of  the  education  of  engineers  and  scientists." 

The  string  of  deficits,  once  begun,  increased  every  year 
until  it  peaked  at  $398,007  in  1970.  Last  year,  however, 
President  Hazzard  was  able  to  announce  in  his  annual 
report  that  "It  was  a  turn-around  year,"  and  that  while  the 
college  still  showed  a  deficit  it  was  only  a  small  fraction  of 
the  preceding  year's.  Finally,  at  the  close  of  the  1971-72 
fiscal  year  the  string  was  broken.  For  the  first  time  in  six 
years  WPI  has  closed  its  books  on  black  ink  instead  of  red. 


And  the  Changes 


Increased  costs  are  easily  pinpointed,  but  to  eliminate  them 
without  lowering  educational  standards  was  not  a  very 
simple  task  or  one  very  lightly  undertaken.  And  so  for  this 
reason,  perhaps  more  than  any  other  (and  there  were 
indeed  others!),  President  Storke  appointed  the  President's 


yyW's  not  that  we  were  poor 
estimators,  or  that  we  were  over- 
cautious ...  It  is  simply  that  the 
pace  of  scientific  progress  has 
accelerated  beyond  the  ability  of  any 
of  us  to  foresee  .  .  . 

-  President  Harry  P.  Storke,  1967 


Planning  Committee  in  December  1968.  Supported  by 
more  than  $100,000  of  WPI  funds,  the  committee  spent  the 
next  eighteen  months  in  an  extensive  and  intensive  study  to 
resolve  the  dilemma  of  providing  an  educational  program  of 
distinction  at  WPI  which  was  at  the  same  time  economically 
feasible  in  the  light  of  then-current  and  future  financial 
resources. 

The  result  was  the  WPI  Plan,  a  landmark  in  American 
engineering  and  scientific  education.  The  story  of  the  Plan 
has  been  told  elsewhere,  as  well  as  the  support  which  it  has 
attracted.  The  Plan  is  bringing  about  a  much  closer  liaison 
with  industry  and  government  and  should  significantly 
improve  the  mutual  respect  among  students,  faculty, 
administration,  and  alumni.  WPI  Plan  graduates  will  con- 
tinue to  combine  the  theoretical  and  the  practical,  which 
has  been  a  hallmark  of  WPI  alumni,  and  they  will  do  it  in  a 
way  uniquely  fitted  to  the  problems  of  the  day. 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


1  ' 
mm 


J1 


2 

'- 

£ 

1 

1 

|fft 

■>/^v 

1 

'  * '  i , 

• 

'-J.,»  in**--— 

I 


THEN 

The  campus  as  it  appeared  a  decade 
ago.  The  only  exception  is  the 
Goddard  Hall  of  Chemistry  and 
Chemical  Engineering,  which  does 
not  appear  in  this  photograph. 


NOW 

The  campus  today,  showing  the 

Gordon  Library,  Harrington 

Auditorium,  and  Stoddard 

Residence  Center. 


^>:* 


And  the  Changes  Yet  to  Come  .  . 

WPI  planning  has  been  more  than  financial  and  educational. 
The  Institute  is  now  attacking  the  problems  of  using 
resources  and  facilities  in  the  most  effective  way.  In  1970 
WPI  commissioned  Charles  W.  Moore  Associates,  architects 
and  planners,  to  evaluate  WPI  facilities  and  make 
recommendations  concerning  the  college's  present  and 
future  problems  of  spatial  planning.  Their  $50,000  report 
(underwritten  by  a  grant  from  the  George  I.  Alden  Trust) 
was  submitted  in  1971.  A  trustee  committee  chaired  by 
Paul  Morgan,  son  of  Philip  Morgan  who  headed  up  the 
Centennial  Fund,  is  now  reviewing  the  Moore  proposals. 

"The  Resources  and  Planning  Committee,"  said  Chair- 
man Morgan,  "is  directing  its  studies  toward  better  student 
center  facilities  and  modifications  of  academic  buildings  to 
increase  educational  effectiveness,  particularly  in  the  light 
in  anticipated  learning-pattern  changes  brought  about  by 
the  WPI  Plan." 

What  amounts  to  the  first  step  of  the  plans  for  the 
future  was  announced  on  Reunion  Day  in  June,  when 
Warren  A.  Ellsworth,  '22,  climbed  onto  a  bulldozer  and 
broke  ground  for  the  Ellsworth  Residence,  which  will  house 
94  students  in  sixteen  townhouse  apartments.  A  gift  of 
$250,000  toward  this  residence  was  made  by  the  Ruth  H. 
and  Warren  A.  Ellsworth  Foundation,  and  it  nicely  coin- 
cided with  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  Warren  Ellsworth's 
graduation  from  WPI. 


Warren  A.  Ellsworth,  '22, 
breaking  ground  in  style 

Adjacent  to  the  Ellsworth  Residence  on  Institute  Road 
\will  be  the  George  Freeman  Fuller  Residence,  made 
possible  by  a  $250,000  gift  from  the  George  F.  and  Sybil 
H.  Fuller  Foundation.  Fuller,  a  noted  Worcester  industri- 
alist, former  president  of  Wyman-Gordon,  and  an  inventor 
\with  over  1,000  patents  to  his  credit,  was  long  a  benefactor 
of  the  college. 

Together,  the  Ellsworth  and  Fuller  residences  will  house 
196  students  in  29  townhouse  apartments  and  1 1  efficiency 
units.  This  will  go  a  long  way  toward  alleviating  the 
student-housing  shortages  at  WPI.  This  new  type  of  housing 
also  will  be  available  to  married  students  and  faculty. 

E  WPI  JOURNAL 


WHERE  IT  CAME  FROM 

Business  and  Industry   ...  $  2,518,744 

Alumni 8,210,491 

Friends 5,517,722 

Foundations 6,438,740 

Government 1,116,333 

Other 39,396 

$23,841,426 

WHERE  IT  WENT 

Endowment 

Professorships      ....      $  1,600,000 

Scholarship  Aid   ....  1,400,000 

Other  Restricted  ....  2,020,000 

Unrestricted 7,300,000 

New  Buildings 7,400,000 

Operations 

First  Phase 1,440,000 

Second  Phase     ....  2,640,000 

$23,800,000 


An  Optimistic  Look  Ahead 

As  WPI  looks  forward  to  its  next  ten  years,  there  is  a 
definite  spirit  of  optimism  which  is  shared  by  others.  This 
spring  the  National  Science  Foundation  awarded  WPI 
$73  3,400,  the  largest  grant  ever  given  under  its  College 
Science  Improvement  Program.  There  was  the  $200,000 
grant  from  the  Sloan  Foundation  in  1970,  $188,000  from 
the  Carnegie  Corporation  in  1971,  $40,000  from  the 
General  Electric  Foundation  in  1972,  and  the  recently 
announced  grant  of  $30,000  from  the  National  Endowment 
for  the  Humanities.  These  independent  judgments  of  WPI's 
educational  leadership  give  confidence  for  the  future. 

"We  intend  to  continue  our  efforts  in  trje  days  ahead," 
President  Hazzard  recently  said,  "to  insure  that  WPI  will 
remain  at  the  forefront  of  sound  educational  advance- 
ment." WPI  is  one  of  the  few  schools  of  its  kind  that  can 
make  that  statement  today.  M 

||we  intend  to  continue  our  efforts 
...  to  insure  that  WPI  will  remain  at 
the  forefront  of  sound  educational 
advancement. 

—  President  George  W.  Hazzard,  1972 


Beyond  the  Bricks 
and  Mortar 

What  New  Buildings  Mean  in  the  Life  of  a  College  Community 


FOUR  NEW  BUILDINGS  were  added  to  the  WPI  campus 
during  the  period  1967  to  1970.  When  they  appeared, 
the  story  of  the  bricks  and  mortar  was  told  —  the  pictures 
of  construction,  the  costs,  the  fearless  predictions  of  how 
wonderful  things  would  be  with  the  new  facility.  This 
article  will  not  repeat  those  things.  The  proper  questions  to 
ask  at  this  point  in  time,  when  all  have  been  in  use  for 
several  years,  are:  How  has  it  all  worked  out?  What 
difference  has  it  made  in  the  life  and  work  of  the  people 
who  use  those  buildings  every  day? 


George  C.  Gordon  Library 

What  was  it  like  on  campus  before  the  Gordon  Library  was 
built?  As  Albert  G.  Andersen,  Director  of  the  library,  puts 
it:  "Well,  we  had  departmental  book  collections  which 
ranged  from  adequate  to  excellent.  The  one  big  problem 
was  that  there  was  no  one  to  help  the  user  with  the 
material." 

One  may  well  ask  just  what  is  a  modern  library.  It  is 
certainly  books  and  journals;  these  are  a  prerequisite. 
Although  size  is  important,  the  quality  of  the  collection  is 
more  essential  than  the  number  of  volumes.  According  to 
Professor  Andersen,  the  110,000  volumes  in  the  Gordon 
Library  are  a  good  representation  of  the  degree  work  in 
engineering,  sciences,  and  the  humanities. 

"Next  in  rank,  and  in  some  ways  more  important,  is 
personnel,"  continues  the  director.  "Unless  a  library  has 
well-trained  and  informed  librarians,  no  matter  how  fine  a 
book  collection,  it  cannot  be  fully  utilized.  Informed  and 
willing  librarians  breathe  life  into  the  body  of  the  book 
collection.  It  is  essential  that  reference  works,  indexes,  and 
abstracts  be  interpreted  to  the  user.  The  professional 
librarian  can  suggest  new  paths  in  the  discovery  of 
information.  Our  Gordon  Library  staff  is  excellent." 


Library  No  Longer  Means 
Book-place 

Another  factor  that  makes  for  a  modern  library  is  the 
willingness  to  remain  modern.  Acceptance  of  new  ideas  and 
programs  as  they  are  introduced  with  new  forms  of 
information  storage  is  essential.  Nowadays  such  types  of 
information  storage  include  microform  and  microfiche, 
audio  tapes  and  cassettes,  films  and  film  loops,  video  tapes, 
slides,  and  other  visual  aids.  All  these  are  aspects  of  the  new 
meaning  and  importance  of  the  term  audio-visual,  and  they 
are  revolutionizing  the  library  and  its  potential  use. 
Through  access  to  computers,  data-storage  banks,  closed- 
circuit  television,  teletypes,  and  telefacsimile,  the  library 
takes  on  even  greater  potential  as  an  information  center. 

"Many  people  feel  the  term  library  (from  Latin  word 
for  book)  should  be  replaced  with  media  center,"  Professor 
Andersen  has  said.  "Personally,  I  see  no  reason  to  change 
names.  The  old  adage,  'By  yee  works  yee  shall  be  known,'  is 
still  a  good  statement.  If  you're  not  willing  to  experiment, 
no  matter  what  you  call  yourself,  then  you  are  always  going 
to  remain  the  same.  Thus  I  feel  that  the  term  library  has 
grown  to  become  an  ever  broadening  concept  of  infor- 
mation and  service." 


The  Audio-Visual  Room  in  use — 
8  videotape  players  and  no  noise! 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


BEFORE— The  library  facilities  of 
Alden  Memorial  Auditorium 


AFTER — A  typical  study  area  in 
Gordon  Library 


Things  That  Never  Were 

It  used  to  be  at  WPI  that  there  was  no  place  for  the  display 
of  things.  Traveling  exhibits,  creations  of  local  artists  and 
WPI  people  could  not  be  shown.  But  the  aesthetic  was  not 
forgotten  in  the  Gordon  Library.  The  display  areas  have 
proved  to  be  one  of  the  greatest  assets  of  the  building,  a 
means  of  introducing  art  in  its  many  forms  to  the  campus. 


A  related  and  significant  resource  is  the  Music  Room, 
which  is  an  area  designed  for  exclusive  use  of  the  WPI 
community  and  its  recreational  and  enjoyable  listening  — 
whether  it  be  classical,  folk,  or  hard  rock.  Its  facilities 
include  records,  tapes  and  cassettes,  FM  radio,  and  the 
equipment  needed  to  play  a  dozen  different  items  at  once 
for  as  many  listeners. 

The  library  also  houses  the  Institute's  Archives  and 
special  collections,  which  were  for  so  long  ignored. 


The  display  area  on  the  top 
floor  of  Gordon  Library 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Main  campus  entrance  to  the  library 


How  the  Library  Affects 
the  Campus 

In  many  ways  the  library  anticipated  and  paved  the  way 
toward  the  WPI  Plan.  "For  one  thing,"  according  to 
Professor  Andersen,  "here  all  the  departments  got  together 
in  a  major  cooperative  venture  in  centralizing  the  library 
services."  The  Gordon  Library  building  has  enabled  all  the 
information  resources  of  WPI  to  be  centralized,  and  to  be 
all  accessible  at  one  place.  Even  the  computer  center  is 
located  on  the  lower  floors  of  the  building! 

"Certainly  the  Plan  could  not  have  developed  as  fast  as 
it  has  without  the  Gordon  Library,  for  so  much  of  its 
success  is  predicated  upon  a  strong  and  readily  accessible 
collection,  staff,  audio-visual  materials,  and  equipment.  Use 
of  the  library  has  almost  doubled  each  year  for  the  past  five 
years.  When  seven-week  terms  were  instigated  in  Sep- 
tember, the  Library  was  booming  by  the  second  day  of 
classes." 

Flexibility  of  design  and  adaptability  is  another  impor- 
tant aspect  of  the  library  building.  Coeducation  and  the 
WPI  Plan  were  both  introduced  after  the  completion  of  the 
Gordon  Library,  and  both  have  been  easily  accommodated. 
And  changes  will  continue.  What  is  accepted  one  year  may 
be  outmoded  in  five.  Adaptability  of  internal  space  is 
needed,  and  this  was  taken  into  account  when  the  library 
structure  was  designed,  by  the  use  of  uniform  lighting,  few 
permanent  internal  walls,  and  ample  wiring.  The  building 
can  grow  as  needed  to  service  WPI  programs  as  they 
develop. 

"One  thing  is  certain,  the  printed  book  or  journal  will 
never  go  out  of  style.  Yet  we  must  be  willing  to  accept 
micro-reproduction  for  seldom  used  materials  and  for 
compactness  of  storage,"  Professor  Andersen  continues. 
"Today's  library  must  be  willing  to  add  and,  most  of  all, 
update  equipment  as  it  is  improved.  There  should  be  fewer 
reluctant  users  if  the  equipment  is  easy  to  use  and  is  easy 
on  the  eye." 


^J Certainly  the  WPI  Plan  could  not 
have  developed  as  fast  as  it  has 
without  the  Gordon  Library,  for  so 
much  of  its  success  is  predicated 
upon  a  strong  and  readily  accessible 
collection,  staff,  audio-visual 
materials,  and  equipment. 

-Librarian  Albert  G.  Andersen,  1972 


Harrington  Auditorium 

Harrington  Auditorium  is  a  unique  building.  It  is  an 
auditorium  and  a  gymnasium,  and  it  fulfills  these  disparate 
functions  with  ease.  It  has  space  for  2,500  spectators  at 
athletic  events,  and  all  the  facilities  needed  for  varsity  and 
club  sports  as  well  as  the  physical  education  programs. 
When  the  main  floor  is  used,  3,500  people  can  be  seated, 


Squash  facilities  at  Harrington- 
in  use! 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Harrington  Auditorium  from  the  quadrangle 


and  the  building  can  be  used  for  a  variety  of  functions. 
Equipped  with  a  press,  radio,  and  television  platform,  it  is 
one  of  the  few  halls  in  New  England  with  sufficient  lighting 
for  color  television. 

"It  is  no  exaggeration  to  say  that  the  Harrington 
Auditorium  has  exceeded  all  our  expectations  of  the  utility 
of  the  building,"  according  to  Professor  Robert  W.  Prit- 
chard,  head  of  the  Department  of  Physical  Education  and 
Athletics.  "The  erection  of  this  facility  has  permitted  the 
Physical  Education  Department  to  initiate  the  concept  of 
'lifetime  sports'  as  an  optional  choice  in  the  required 
program.  With  much  larger  freshman  and  sophomore 
classes,  we  can  now  use  Alumni  Gym  and  Harrington 
Auditorium  at  the  same  time.  New  opportunities  in  squash, 
handball,  volleyball,  badminton,  table  tennis,  golf,  and  so 
forth  are  being  taught,  among  other  sports  which  our 
decision-makers  of  the  future  can  learn  to  enjoy  and  pursue 
in  future  years." 

Among  the  many  athletic  events  which  have  been  held 
in  Harrington  Auditorium  have  been  a  New  England 
wrestling  tournament  and  several  district-  and  state-level 
high  school  basketball  tournaments.  According  to  Professor 
Pritchard,  these  are  rapidly  spreading  the  good  word  of  WPI 
all  over  New  England,  and  the  comment  that  "there  is  no 
more  beautiful  basketball  arena  anywhere"  is  heard  again 
and  again. 

Another  department,  Military  Science,  is  also  located  in 
Harrington,  and  they  find  the  building's  proximity  to  the 
athletic  fields  and  the  central  quadrangle  very  helpful. 

Social  events  make  up  a  significant  part  of  Harrington's 
life.  Concerts  are  held  there  throughout  the  year,  and  it  is 
not  unusual  to  have  up  to  4,000  students  (and  non- 
students)  inside  stomping  their  feet.  Whenever  the  Harlem 
Globetrotters  come  to  Worcester,  they  perform  in  Harring- 
ton, always  to  a  packed  house. 


^^The  Harrington  families  gave  us 
more  than  a  building  ...  a  mecca  for 
people  and  groups,  a  place  where 
healthy  bodies  are  trained,  a  place 
for  entertainment,  for  campus 
gatherings,  and  a  place  where  a 
social  and  athletic  atmosphere  can 
prevail. 

-  Professor  Robert  W.  Pritchard 


There  has  also  developed  what  Professor  Pritchard  calls 
a  "new  kinship"  with  local  industry,  as  they  have  dis- 
covered that  Harrington  offers  them  a  sizable  auditorium 
perfectly  suited  to  such  diverse  uses  as  service  banquets  and 
children's  Christmas  parties.  Professor  Pritchard  predicts 
this  type  of  use  will  increase. 

"The  Harrington  families  gave  us  more  than  a  building," 
says  Bob  Pritchard.  "Their  generosity  has  given  WPI  and  the 
community  a  mecca  for  people  and  groups  to  meet,  a  place 
where  healthy  bodies  are  trained,  a  place  for  entertainment, 
for  campus  academic  gatherings,  and  a  place  where  a  social 
and  athletic  atmosphere  can  prevail." 


4E  WPI  JOURNAL 


INFORMAL— Harrington 
Auditorium  in  its  normal,  everyday 
guise 


FORMAL— Harrington  as  it  is  set 

up  for  Commencement  and  other 

major  nonathletic  functions 


/  /  It  is  no  exaggeration  to  say  that 
Harrington  Auditorium  has  exceeded 
all  our  expectations  .  .  . 

—  Professor  Robert  W.  Pritchard 


10 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


A/den  Research  Laboratories  - 
Building  Number  One 

It  seems  like  such  an  unprepossessing  name  for  a  major 
facility  —  Building  Number  One.  Yet  behind  this  obscure 
title  is  the  most  versatile,  possibly  the  most  important 
building  on  the  entire  240  acres  of  the  Alden  Research 
Laboratories. 

It  serves  four  distinct  functions:  administration,  educa- 
tion, service,  and  research.  Building  Number  One's  office 
wing  houses  the  ARL  library,  two  classrooms,  and  a  small 
auditorium  which  has  been  used  for  such  things  as  thesis 
defense,  staff  conferences,  and  ASME  and  MSPE  profes- 
sional meetings.  In  the  same  wing  are  cubicles  for  twenty 
graduate  students  and  offices  for  the  ARL  administrative 
staff. 

The  engineering  wing,  the  Charles  M.  Allen  Experi- 
mental Laboratory,  has  seen  a  number  of  exciting  develop- 
ments. Student  demonstration  experiments  are  being  in- 
stalled in  a  new  environment  and  in  a  format  that  allows  for 
greater  flexibility  and  student  use.  Included  are  a  new 
self-contained  glass-sided  flume  with  variable  flow  and  a 
complete  pressure-drop  test  rig  with  a  variety  of  pipe  sizes 
and  configurations. 

There  is  one  small  room  devoted  to  weight-standards 
work.  It  has  the  capacity  of  doing  Class  A  work  on  weights 


up  to  50  pounds  as  traceable  to  the  Bureau  of  Standards. 
As  of  this  writing,  ARL  has  10,000  pounds  in  precision 
weights  for  checking  platform  scales. 

On  the  main  floor,  and  below,  of  the  experimental 
laboratory  a  complete  large  flow  calibration  loop  has  been 
developed.  The  power  generation  unit  will  drive  up  to  750 
horsepower  of  pumping  load.  The  pumps  have  a  range  of 
capacity  from  quite  small  to  20,000  gpm  with  heads 
varying  from  a  few  feet  to  700  feet  of  water.  The  weigh 
tanks  are  100,000  and  10,000  pound  capacity  and  the 
sump  beneath  the  flow  has  capacity  for  over  200,000 
gallons.  Because  of  a  heating  capability  for  the  water  in 
addition  to  the  pumping  capacity,  the  Reynolds  number 
potential  for  this  loop  has  put  ARL  back  in  the  forefront  in 
the  flow  measurement  field. 

A  new  facility  on  the  floor  of  the  laboratory  is  a  flume 
over  40  x  9  x  4  feet  with  a  built-in  wave  generator. 
Although  this  equipment  has  been  installed  for  a  specific 
project  and  client,  it  is  a  permanent  installation  and  will  be 
available  for  a  variety  of  student  and  sponsored  projects. 

Alden's  director,  Lawrence  C.  Neale,  summarizes  it  like 
this:  "In  all,  the  complete  building  (service  and  experi- 
mental wings)  has  provided  the  possibility  of  developing 
staff,  student  population  and  instruction  at  the  graduate 
and  undergraduate  level.  Professional  activities  supported 
by  ARL  have  been  enhanced.  Finally  the  technical  capabil- 
ity of  the  ARL  complex  has  been  substantially  improved." 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


11 


Jilt's  nice  here.  It's 
not  like  a  dorm,  really. 

-  Jack  Williams,  '73 


y  J  Daniels  is  like  a  jail 
by  comparison  —  blah! 

-  Bob  Levi,  '73 


Stoddard  Residence  Center 


To  many  students  a  dorm  is  a  dorm  is  a  dorm  and  that's  all 
there  is  to  it.  But  the  students  who  live  in  Stoddard  have  a 
very  different  feeling  about  their  college  home. 

Jack  Williams,  '73,  puts  it  this  way:  "We  were  next  to 
last  in  the  lottery  list,  and  we  had  an  apartment  all  lined  up, 
but  then  we  got  this  room  over  the  summer.  So  we  gave  up 
the  apartment  and  took  this.  It's  much  easier,  more 
convenient,  cheaper,  everything.  .  .  it's  nice  here.  It's  not 
like  a  dorm,  really.  If  they  had  said  we  could  have  a  room 
in  Morgan  or  Daniels,  I'd  think  twice  about  it  —  Riley, 
forget  it." 

Jack's  roommate,  Bob  Levi,  agrees:  "Daniels  is  like  a 
jail  by  comparison  —  blah!" 

Probably  the  best  appreciated  feature  of  life  at  Stod- 
dard is  the  quiet.  Mark  Mooradian,  '73,  who  is  resident 
advisor  to  the  Stoddard  "B"  building,  says  that  he  has  never 
had  a  complaint  about  noise  while  he's  been  at  Stoddard. 

"The  system  of  rooms  here  definitely  cuts  down  on  the 
noise.  For  one  thing,  a  lot  of  the  noise  in  dorms  comes 
from  kids  fooling  around  in  the  halls.  Here  there's  not  that 
much  room  to  fool  around  in,  maybe  ten  or  twenty  feet. 
Over  in  Daniels,  where  I  was  last  year,  it  was  a  lot  different. 


There  the  biggest  thing  is  frisbee  in  the  halls,  hockey  in  the 
halls,  running  up  and  down  the  halls,  track  meets  in  the 
halls,  bike  riding  in  the  halls,  everything  you  can  imagine. 
And  the  halls  there  are  nicely  set  up  for  all  that  sort  of 
thing  —  water  sliding,  everything. 

"Here  in  Stoddard  none  of  that  can  go  on,  and  that  cuts 
down  the  noise;  and  in  addition  to  that  there  are  the  rugs 
and  the  soundproofing  in  the  ceilings.  I've  never  heard 
anything  that  has  gone  on  upstairs  over  my  head,  and  I've 
never  had  one  complaint.  It's  great!" 

Jack  Williams  agrees  with  Mark.  "You  can't  hear 
anything.  There  are  only  four  double  rooms  to  a  section.  A 
kid  down  at  the  other  end  can  play  his  stereo  as  loud  as 
anything,  but  if  you  close  your  door  you  can't  hear  any  of 
it.  Sound  doesn't  travel." 

Lest  we  leave  you  with  the  impression  that  all  is  perfect 
at  Stoddard,  Jack  had  this  complaint  to  make:  "The  only 
thing  bad  here  is  the  carpets.  They  picked  the  wrong  kind, 
they  put  down  nylon  carpeting,  and  for  kids  who  smoke  it's 
terrible.  You  drop  an  ash  and  it  melts  the  carpet  and  costs  a 
fortune  to  fix." 

Residents  are  in  accord  that  they  like  Stoddard  and  the 
way  it  is  furnished.  However,  I  asked  Bob  Levi  if  the  small 
refrigerator  by  his  desk  came  with  the  room,  he  laughed 
and  said,  "No.  That's  a  great  convenience,  though.  We  don't 
know  how  we  survived  freshman  year  without  one."  I 


yy Over  there  in  the  other  dorms  the  big  thing  is  frisbee  in  the  halls, 
hockey  in  the  halls,  track  meets  in  the  halls,  bike  riding  in  the  halls  .  .  . 
water  sliding  .  .  .  Here,  I've  never  heard  anything  that  has  gone  on 
upstairs  over  my  head.  It's  great. 

—  Mark  Mooradian,  '73 


12 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Chairs 

Aren't  Always  To  Sit  In 


by  Ruth  Trask 


MANY  people  think  that  the  only  purpose  of  an 
endowed  professorship  is  to  pay  a  faculty  mem- 
ber's salary.  In  fact,  that  turns  out  to  be  one  of 
the  least  of  the  things  accomplished. 

Four  chairs  were  endowed  at  WPI  in  the  ten-year 
program.  The  latest  of  these  was  announced  less  than  a  year 
ago.  The  WPI  chairs  involve  an  additional  grant  to  the 
faculty  member,  to  be  used  to  broaden  his  professional  and 
personal  horizons.  The  thing  about  the  system  is,  it  works. 
On  the  following  pages  we  hope  to  show  you  through 
their  own  words  just  how  these  faculty  members  have  used 
their  new  resources,  and  what  the  endowed  chair  has  meant 
to  each  of  them.  It's  far  more  than  a  matter  of  money,  as 
you'll  see. 


IE  WPI  JOURNAL 


13 


"It's  a  great  feeling  to  know  that  I  have  control  over  a 
certain  amount  of  funds  that  enable  me  to  pursue  my 
professional  interests,"  says  Prof.  Kenneth  E.  Scott,  '48, 
who  was  awarded  the  first  George  I.  Alden  Chair  in 
Engineering. 

"So  far  the  grant  has  made  it  possible  for  me  to  attend 
several  meetings  and  workshops  in  my  field,"  Scott 
continues.  "Last  May,  for  example,  I  presented  a  paper  on 
the  use  of  multi  media  in  a  self-paced  (IPI)  course  in 
control  engineering  at  the  Northeast  Audio  Tutorial  Con- 
ference in  New  Jersey." 

Scott,  who  is  professor  of  mechanical  engineering  and 
Institute  Director  of  Audio-Visual  Development,  has, 
during  the  past  year,  put  on  a  workshop  and  presented 
papers  on  the  application  of  technology  to  teaching  at  the 
annual  meeting  of  the  American  Society  of  Engineering 
Education  in  Texas.  He  has  also  joined  the  National 
Association  of  American  Broadcasters  and  the  Association 
for  Educational  Communications  &  Technology. 

"Actually,  I'm  kept  pretty  busy  right  here  with 
teaching  and  advising,"  he  confessed. 

He  need  not  have  bothered  to  explain.  A  student,  one 
of  Scott's  advisees,  shuffled  through  a  pile  of  manila  folders 
on  a  table  by  the  office  door,  found  what  he  was  looking 
for,  and  walked  out,  leaving  the  door  open. 

"Maybe  you'd  better  shut  it,"  Scott  suggested.  "It 
probably  won't  do  much  good  though.  They  always  manage 
to  find  me.  .  .  "  He  laughed. 

(Perhaps  this  "availability"  to  those  who  need  him  is 
one  of  the  reasons  he  was  selected  as  WPI  Teacher  of  the 
Year  in  1971  and  why  the  students  dedicated  the  1970 
Peddler  to  him.  Perhaps,  along  with  his  outstanding 
teaching  ability,  it  is  one  of  the  reasons  he  was  awarded  the 
Alden  Chair.) 

"Getting  back  to  the  grant,"  he  said.  "It  has  helped  me 
to  pursue  my  recent  interests  in  the  application  of 
technology  to  education." 

The  phone  was  ringing  and  there  was  a  knock  at  the 
door.  With  his  hand  on  the  receiver  he  concluded,  "It  has 
let  me  take  advantage  of  opportunities  that  otherwise  I 
might  have  let  go  by." 


Associate  Professor  of  Mathematics  Bruce  C.  McQuarrie, 
who  holds  the  Harold  J.  Gay  Chair,  concurs  with  Prof. 
Scott. 

"Professional  travel  and  a  number  of  other  opportu- 
nities have  really  been  opened  up  for  me  this  year,"  he 
admits. 

"Last  February,  because  of  the  extra  funds  made 
available  through  the  grant,  I  was  able  to  present  a  paper  at 
the  International  Conference  for  Mathematicians  Interested 
in  Near  Rings  which  was  held  in  Oberwolfach,  Germany." 

He  smiled.  "And  my  wife,  Betty,  went  along  with  me. 
Oh,  she  paid  her  own  way,"  he  added.  "But  some  of  her 
expenses  were  at  a  reduced  rate.  And  she  didn't  cost  at  all 
extra  in  the  car  we  rented.  We  spent  1 1  days  over  there." 

He  smiled  again,  remembering. 

"In  March  I  went  to  another  conference,"  he  con- 
tinued. "This  time  to  the  Ontario  Mathematics  meeting  in 
Ottawa  where  I  gave  a  paper." 

Did  he  use  the  funds  for  anything  besides  travel? 

"Oh,  yes,"  he  said.  "I've  purchased  quite  a  few  new 
books  and  sponsored  a  speaker  for  the  department." 

And  for  the  future?  Prof.  McQuarrie  says  he  is  hoping 
to  attend  more  meetings  with  his  colleagues.  Because  he  has 
access  to  the  resources  incumbent  in  the  Harold  J.  Gay 
Chair,  his  hopes  will  undoubtedly  turn  into  reality. 


14 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


"The  Kinnicutt  has  helped  pay  for  research  and  travel 
primarily,"  says  Dr.  Herbert  Beall,  the  assistant  professor  of 
chemistry  who  sits  in  the  Leonard  P.  Kinnicutt  Chair. 

"At  the  time  I  received  this  particular  grant  some  of  the 
funds  were  channeled  into  the  purchase  of  X-ray  film  for 
X-ray  structure  work.  We  would  not  have  been  able  to 
continue  this  type  of  work  without  the  Kinnicutt."  He 
paused. 

"And,  then,  of  course,  there  was  the  trip  to  New 
York." 

"The  trip  to  New  York"  turned  out  to  be  a  meeting  of 
the  American  Chemical  Society  where  he  presented  a  paper. 
He  said  the  paper  came  about  as  a  direct  result  of  the 
research  he  had  been  able  to  do  through  the  grant. 

"I  also  did  something  else  while  I  was  in  New  York,"  he 
said.  "Some  sightseeing." 

"You  mean  the  Statue  of  Liberty  and  the  Empire 
State?"  he  was  asked. 

"I  knew  you'd  say  that,"  he  replied.  "But  you're 
wrong.  I  visited  railway  terminals.  I'm  a  railroad  buff." 

"Did  you  know  that  the  Jersey  Central  Terminal  is  the 
largest  abandoned  railway  terminal  in  the  world?"  he  asked 
suddenly.  "And  did  you  know  that  the  Hoboken  Terminal 
has  a  great  hot  dog  and  beer  stand  on  the  train  concourse 
where  you  can  sit  and  watch  the  comings  and  goings  of  the 
Erie  and  Lackawanna  cars?" 

"What  you  really  want,  though,  to  hear  is  some  more 
about  the  Kinnicutt,"  he  said. 

"Well,  we've  purchased  quite  a  lot  of  chemical  glassware 
and  new  chemicals,  so  far.  Looking  ahead,  a  couple  of  years 
from  now  I  expect  to  attend  the  International  Boron 
Chemistry  Symposium  which  will  probably  be  held  in 
England.  At  least  I  hope  it's  in  England,"  he  went  on.  "My 
mother  lives  there.  She's  a  good  baby  sitter." 

So  the  family  was  going,  too?  "Certainly,"  he  replied. 

He  didn't  volunteer  what  his  method  of  transportation 
would  be.  But  it  does  look  as  though  this  is  one  trip  he 
won't  make  by  train! 


There  are  at  least  two  trips  in  the  future  of  Dr.  Charles  C. 
Reynolds. 

Reynolds,  who  is  a  professor  of  mechanical  engineering, 
was  recently  named  the  George  F.  Fuller  Professor  of 
Mechanical  Engineering. 

"Actually,"  he  explained,  "I've  been  more  or  less 
conserving  part  of  the  funds  from  my  grant  so  that  I  can 
take  a  term  off  in  order  to  go  to  Europe  to  find  out  what 
the  new  developments  are  in  casting,  forging,  welding,  and 
plastics." 

Germany  would  be  one  of  his  destinations  he  said. 
There  he  will  be  mostly  concerned  with  metal  working.  In 
Birmingham,  England,  and  in  France  his  investigations  will 
turn  to  casting. 

"I  also  plan  to  look  up  some  former  graduate  students 
along  the  way,"  he  added.  "That  always  makes  things  more 
interesting." 

When  would  he  be  leaving? 

"Soon,"  he  said.  "I  already  have  my  passport." 

Was  he  planning  on  doing  any  travel  in  this  country? 

"Yes,"  he  replied.  "To  Cincinnati-Heald  and  other 
companies  in  the  Midwest  to  discuss  co-operative  programs 
concerning  student  projects." 

Had  being  selected  as  the  Fuller  professor  benefited  him 
in  any  other  ways? 

"Definitely.  I've  been  able  to  do  more  development 
work  in  the  audio-visual  field,"  Reynolds  explained.  "I've 
joined  several  additional  professional  organizations.  As  far 
as  new  books  go,  I  now  purchase  any  I  want  although  they 
are  expensive.  Some  cost  from  $35  to  $50  apiece." 

He  paused  for  a  minute.  He  looked  like  a  man  who  was 
happy  that  he  didn't  have  to  personally  pay  $35  for  each 
new  addition  to  his  library. 

"The  Fuller  has  meant  a  lot,"  he  said. 


•HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


15 


16 


A  NOTE  FROM  THE  EDITOR: 
WPI  is  an  institution  of  higher  edu 
cation.   It   is,  therefore,  subject  t 
most  of  the  pressures  being  put  oi 
modern  American  higher  educatior 
The  following  special  report  is  pre 
sented  as  a  general  view,  one  w> 
think  will  interest  most  of  you,  o1 
these   issues  which   affect  all  col  ] 
leges.  We  will  not,  here,  try  to  givi 
our  "answer"  to  each  of  the  point 
brought  out.  Because  we  try  to  d< 
that  consistently  in  the  Journal,  ii 
our  own  way.  Remember  "The  Edu 
cation  of  the  Idiot  Box"  which  ap 
peared  in  the  Spring  1971  Journal'. 
You'll  be  hearing  more  about  WPI'! 
teaching  methods  in  the  future,  too 
And  there  was  the  April  1972  Inter- 
session  issue.  And  the  continuing 
story   of    the    development   of    th< 
WPI  Plan.  As  a  part  of  the  main- 
stream of  modern  higher  education, 
we  at  WPI   aim  to   keep  you,  oui 
alumni,  students,  and  friends,  well 
informed  about  what  we're  doing 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


eeclbacl 

\\ 


To  the  Editor: 

One  of  the  fringe  benefits  of  being 
the  mother  of  a  doctoral  candidate  is 
receiving  the  WPI  Journal.  I  read  it 
assiduously  as  a  way  of  reducing  the 
generation  gap. 

But  your  April  Intersession  issue 
which  I  have  just  received  sent  me  off 
into  orbit  all  on  my  own.  The  combi- 
nation of  Ben  Bova's  "Next  100 
Years"  and  Ruth  Trask's  "Intersession 
1972"  (people  must  have  thought  of 
calling  it  Intercourse  1972?)  [Yes, 
they  did!  —  Ed.]  added  up  to  the  most 
stimulating  reading  I've  come  across 
for  many  a  long  day. 

Specifically,  they  hit  me  from  at 
least  three  directions.  For  one  thing  I 
stopped  despairing  of  where  technol- 
ogy is  taking  us  and,  with  all  those 
marvelous  things  Ben  Bova  says  can  be 
carried  on  in  outer  space,  for  the  first 
time  I  saw  some  sense  in  NASA.  Two, 
my  faith  in  the  validity  of  the  Ameri- 
can approach  to  higher  education  was 
recharged:  any  school  system  that  can 
come  up  with  the  theory  and  practice 
of  Intersession  can't  be  all  bad.  Final- 
ly, I  am  kicking  myself  for  getting 
born  when  I  did  and  thereby  missing 
so  much  excitement. 

Since  that   is  a  fact  of  life  that  I 

can't  change,  all  I  can  do  is  thank  you 

for  giving  me  a  vicarious  experience 

that  I  wouldn't  want  to  have  missed. 

Lois  Hackett 

Geneva,  Switzerland 

To  the  Editor: 

Congratulations  to  you,  to  the 
Publications  Committee,  and  to 
whomever  is  responsible  for  the  chal- 
lenging yet  informative  articles  on 
Genetic  Engineering  which  make  up 
your  August  issue. 

This  topic  which  will  be  a  major 
moral  and  social  consideration  for  the 
next  decade,  if  not  the  next  genera- 
tion, should  most  certainly  be  brought 


to  our  attention,  and  you  have  done  it 
most  effectively. 

Tech  has  long  been  known  for  its 
leadership  in  engineering  and  for  its 
conservatism  in  social  and  political 
areas  of  concern,  but  this  is  the  second 
or  third  time  the  Journal  has  been  the 
vehicle  for  bringing  friends  of  WPI  the 
story  of  technological  and  social  chal- 
lenge. Keep  it  up. 

I  was  on  the  Tech  faculty,  in  Al 
Schwieger's  department  [Economics, 
Government,  and  Business]  ,  while 
Walt  Dennen  was  editor  of  the  Tech 
News,  and  I  well  remember  his  re- 
sponse to  the  ASEE  —  ECPD  advocacy 
of  a  five-year  undergraduate  program 
in  engineering,  when  he  wrote  that 
"some  of  us  have  put  ourselves  on  a 
five-year  program  already." 

Ernest  D.  Phelps 
.    Nichols  College 

Dudley,  Massachusetts 

To  the  Editor: 

I  am  interested  in  obtaining  25 
copies  of  the  articles  on  "Genetic 
Engineering"  which  appear  in  your 
August  1972  issue  of  the  WPI  Journal, 
and  would  be  most  appreciative  of  any 
assistance  you  might  give. 

Douglas  J.  Berndt,  Rector 
St.  Paul's  Episcopal  Church 
Kingsport,  Tennessee 


A  Comment  from  the  Editor: 

Someone  recently  asked  why  it 
was  that  the  letters  which  appear  in 
Feedback  were  so  uniformly  positive 
and  congratulatory.  The  only  answer  is 
a  simple  yet  puzzling  one:  Those  are 
about  the  only  letters  we  receive  here, 
except  for  a  few  inquiring  (or  com- 
plaining) about  a  particular  listing  in 
Completed  Careers  or  Your  Class  and 
Others.  Obviously,  many  alumni  dis- 
agree with  individual  statements  made 
in  Journal  articles,  or  with  some  of 
those  "positive  and  congratulatory" 
letters  in  this  section.  But  they  haven't 
written  us.  If  we  get  it,  we'll  print  it. 
Feedback  is  meant  to  be  a  forum 
wherein  alumni  can  talk  back  to  the 
Journal  and  the  Alumni  Association 
and  each  other.  It's  your  space,  not 
ours. 


"HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


33 


You  liked  it  last  year, 
but  you'll  love  it  now. 

Last  year  we  told  you  a  little  bit  about 
Intersession  beforehand.  This  time  around  it's 
bigger,  and  it's  better,  and  we  couldn't  make  up 
our  minds  about  which  courses  to  advertise. 
So  we  sent  you  the  whole  catalog  —  some  160 
courses  strong. 

Remember — special  rate  for  alumni,  only  $75 
a  course  (regular  rate  $110)  (and  it  even  includes 
lunches). 

Remember  the  WPI  Calendar:  October, 
November,  December,  Intersession,  February  .  .  . 

(Note:  Most  alumni  were  sent  copies  of  the  Intersession 
Catalog.  If  you  didn't  receive  one  and  are  interested, 
iust  drop  us  a  line.) 


34 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


DIRECTORY  OF  CHAPTER   OFFICERS 


Berkshire 

President,  P.S.SIedzik/61 ,42  Bellmore  Dr.,  Pittsfield,  Mass.  01201 
Secretary-Treasurer,  R.  K.  Quattrochi,'49, 1 1  50  Holmes  Rd„  Pittsfield,  Mass.  01201 
Council,  F.J.  Gamari,'54,20Sand  Springs  Rd.,  Wiltiamstown,  Mass.  01  267 

Boston 

President,!.  F.  Humphrey, '59, 1  8  Larch  Rd.,Wellesley  Hills,  Mass.  021  81 
1st  Vice  President,  D.J.  Maguire/66,31  Charming  Dr.  S.W.,  Watertown.  Mass.  021  72 
2nd  Vice  President,  M.  B.  Steele, '26, 20  Buckskin  Path,  Centervilie,  Mass.  02632 
3rd  Vice  President,  A.  J.  Antak,  '68,  79  Central  St.,  Apt.  9,  Waltham,  Mass.  021  54 
Secretary-Treasurer,  D.J.  George,  '69, 121  Walker  Ln.,  Needham,  Mass.  02192 
Council,  W.  J.  Charow,  '49, 45  Woodlawn  Ave.,  Wellesley  Hills,  Mass.  021 81 
E.  Lagerholm,  '44, 1 00  Memorial  Dr.,  Cambridge.  Mass.  021 42 
R.  D.  Behn,  '63, 90  Ellery  St.,  Apt.  1 4,  Cambridge,  Mass.  021 38 
J.  B.  Nano,'67,  72  Prospect  St.,  Wellesley,  Mass.  02181 
T.  B.  Newman,  Jr., '64,  Emerson  Gardens,  Apt.  1 1 ,  Lexington,  Mass.  02173 

Central  New  York 

President,  D.  W.  Prosser,  '61,6  Florence  St.,  Auburn,  N .  Y.  1 3021 
Secretary-Treasurer.  N.T.  Buske,'59,408Sidgewick  Dr.,  Syracuse,  N.Y.  13203 
Council,  D.  W.  Prosser, '61 ,  see  above. 

Chicago 

Secretary-Treasurer,  W.  J.  Shephard,'62, 1  255  N.  Sandburg  Terr.,  Apt.  261 0, 

Chicago,  111.60610 
Council,  R.  A.  Berg,  '59,  301  Oakdale  Ave.,  Lake  Forest,  III.  60045 

Cincinnati 

President,  R.  W.  Parks, '41 ,  3736  Ashworth  Dr.,  Apt.  A,  Cincinnati,  Ohio 45208 
Secretary -Treasurer ,  S.  D.  Donahue,  Jr., '63, 440  Beech  Tree  Dr.,  Cincinnati, 

Ohio  45224 
Council,  S.  D.  Donahue,  Jr., '63,  see  above. 

Cleveland 

President,  R.  B.  Sundheim,'58,3642Traynham  Rd.,  Shaker  Heights,  Ohio  441 22 
Council,  R.  B.  Sundheim, '58,  see  above. 

Connecticut  Valley 

President,  J.  W.  Powers, '61 ,  R.F.D.  No.  1,  Mountainview  Circle, 

Southampton,  Mass.  01 073 
Vice  Presidents.?.  Mozden,  Jr., '63, 55  Lee  St.,  E.  Longmeadow,  Mass.  01 028 
Secretary,  E.  E.  Nutting, '39, 23  High  St.,  Haydenville,  Mass.  01 039 
Treasurer,  D.  G.  Healey,'69, 2  Harvard  St.,  Holyoke,  Mass.  01 040 
Council,  L.  E.  Stratton,'39, 74  Carlisle  St.,  Springfield,  Mass.  01 1 09 

A.  E.  Brownlee, '33,  Feeding  Hills  Rd.,  Westfield,  Mass. 01 085 

Detroit 

President,  E.  H.  Judd,  '50, 1 231  Linden  St.,  Plymouth,  Mich.  481 70 

Eastern  Connecticut 

President,  H.  N.  Harris,  Jr., '57, 32  Corey  Lane,  Niantic,  Conn.  06357 
Vice  President,  N.  M.  Carignan,  '58, 568  Cow  Hill  Rd.,  Mystic,  Conn.  06335 
Secretary-Treasurer.V.  P.  Dufault, '62, 28  Sequin  Rd.,  Noank,  Conn.  06340 
Council,  J.  M.  Danis,'67, 1  28  Providence  St.,Taftville,  Conn.  06380 

Hartford 

President,  G.  F.  Crowther,'37,  20  Bates  St.,  Hartford,  Conn.  061 14 
Vice  President,  L.  T.  Benoit,  '66, 40  Willard  St.,  Apt.  308,  Hartford,  Conn.  061 05 
Secretary,  D.  C.  Creamer, '68, 1 22  New  State  Rd.,  Manchester,  Conn.  06040 
Treasurer,  W.  L.  Brown, '60, 3  Redstone  Dr.,  Simsbury,  Conn.  06070 
Council,  L.  A.  Penoncello,'66,  Kellogg  Rd.,Torrington,  Conn.  06790 

E.  C.  Campbell/43, 1  5  Fairfield  Rd.,  W.  Hartford,  Conn.  061 1 7 
W.  R.  Ernst, '53, 1 59  Tobey  Ave.,  Windsor,  Conn.  06095 

Hudson- Mohawk 

President,  J.  J.  Osvald,'65, 1 1 38  Hendrickson  Ave.,  Schenectady,  N.Y.  1 2308 
Vice  President,  H.  A.  Christopher,  '61 , 1 05  Acorn  Dr.,  Scotia,  N.Y.  1 2302 
Council,  B.  A.  Podberesky,'58,  Schenectady,  N.Y.  1  2309 

Los  Angeles 

President,  P.  C.  Yankauskas, '42, 4508  Blackthorne  Ave.,  Long  Beach,  Calif.  90808 
Vice  President,  D.  R.  Bates,  '40, 2999  East  Ocean  Blvd.,  Apt.  1 1  20, 

Long  Beach,  Calif.  90803 
Council,  P.  C.  Yankauskas, '42,  see  above. 

New  Haven 

President,  J.  J.  Conroy,  Jr.,  '46C,  255  Riverside  Dr.,  Mt.  Carmel,  Conn.  0651 8 
Vice  President,  H.  S.  Altenburg,'65, 1  Cider  Tree  Lane,  Stamford,  Conn.  06903 
Secretary-Treasurer,  N.J.  Barone,  '65, 266  Chapel  St.,  Milford,  Conn.  06460 
Council,  J.  M.Halloran,Jr.,'40,63  MowrySt.,Hamden,Conn.06518 

New  York 

President,  R.  D.  Gelling, '63, 66  Roosevelt  Ave.,  Malverne,  N.Y.  1 1 565 
Vice  President,  R.  E.  Allen,  '42, 1  54  St.  Andrews  Ln.,  Glen  Cove,  N.Y.  1 1 542 
Vice  President,  J.  M.  Anderson,  '64, 345  E.  69th  St.,  New  York,  N.Y.  1 0021 
Secretary,  D.J.  Grenier,  '55, 1 8  West  Rd.,  Carmel,  N.Y.  1 051 2 
Treasurer,  S.  A.  Quart,  '56, 90  Sagamore  Dr.,  Syosset,  N.Y.  1 1 791 
Council,  S.  L.  Vrusho/57,  IBM  Corp.,  2  Penn  Plaza,  New  York,  N.Y.  1 0001 
G.  P.  Vittas/63, 21 01  Voorhies  Ave.,  Brooklyn,  N.Y.  1 1  235 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Niagara  Peninsula 

Presidents.  M.Kelly,  Jr.,  '63, 121  Old  Farm  Circle,  Williamsville,  N.Y.  1 4221 
Vice  President,  O.  A.  Hansen, '25, 40  Danbury  Ln.,  Kenmore,  N.Y.  1 421 7 
Secretary-  Treasurer,  F.  W.  Swan,  Jr., '35, 1  28  Church  St.,  East  Aurora,  N.Y.  1 4052 
Council,  R.  A.  Jolicoeur, '67, 1 0703  Holland  Glenwood  Rd.,  Holland,  N.Y.  1 4080 

Northern  California 

President,  W.  H.  Gill,  Jr.,  '61 ,7111  Westmoreland  Way,  Sacramento,  Calif.  95831 
Secretary-  Treasurer,  C.  H.  Daw,  Jr., '59, 681  6  Hyde  Ct.,  Dublin,  Calif.  94566 
Council,  J.  A.AIfieri,'59,22465  Rancho  Ventura  No.  B,  Cupertino,  Calif.  9501 4 

Northern  New  Jersey 
President,  V.  E.  Kohman, '43, 32  Summit  Rd.,  Verona,  N.J.  07044 
Vice  President,  S.  Ringel,  '47,  36  Brookside  Rd.,  West  Orange,  N.J.  07050 
Secretary,  W.  R.  Hopkins, '65, 37  West  Ruby  Ave.,  Palisades  Park,  N.J.  07650 
Treasurer,  H.  W.  Tenney,  Jr.,  '56, 74  Golf  St.,  West  Long  Branch,  N.J.  07764 
Council,  N.J.  Taupeka,  '58, 32  Surrey  Ln.,  Eatontown,  N.J.  07724 
J.  L.  Reid,'51 ,31  Spring  Garden  Dr.,  Madison,  N.J. 07940 

North  Shore 

Acting  President,  D.  R.  Ekstrom,'63, 1  6  Hathaway  Ave.,  Beverly,  Mass.  01  91  5 
Secretary- Treasurer,  W.  C.  Goodchild, '40, 1  Woodbury  Dr.,  Beverly,  Mass.  01 91 5 
Council,  J.  M.Szymanski, '62,  Paradise  Travel  Service,  lnc.,1  27  Harvard  St., 
Allston,Mass,02134 

Pacific  Northwest 

President,  P.J.  Topelian,  '39, 433  160th  Ave.,  S.E.,  Bellevue,  Wash.  98004 
Secretary-  Treasurer,  W.  M.Lloyd  1 1,  '51, 1571 4  S.E.  26th  St.,  Bellevue,  Wash.  98004 

Philadelphia 

President,  J.  R.  Taylor, '50, 324  Meadowbrook  Rd.,  North  Wales,  Pa.  1 9454 
Vice  President,  R.  E.  Roy,  '68, 6628  N.  8th  St.,  Philadelphia,  Pa.  1 91 26 
Secretary- Treasurer,  V.  T.  Pace,  '71 ,  428  Lombard  St.,  Philadelphia,  Pa.  1 91 47 
Council,  M .  P.  Zarrilli,  '71 ,  3600  Chestnut  St.,  Apt.  1 807,  Philadelphia,  Pa.  1 91 04 

Pittsburgh 

President,  A.  D.Tripp,  Jr., '36,  21  2  Connecting  Rd.,  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  1  5228 
Vice  President,  G.  B.  Brown, '55, 1 40  Sunset  Dr.,  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  1 5235 
Secretary-Treasurer,  J .  L.  Paquette,'68, 109  Greenlea  Dr.,  Coraopolis,  Pa.  1  5108 
Council,  D.  M.  McNamara,  '55, 804  Ella  St.,  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  1 521 6 

Rhode  Island 

President,  D.  A.  True,  '71, 473  Old  Fall  River  Rd.,  Swansea,  Mass.  02777 
Vice  President,  J.  K.  Karalekas,  '58,74  Ferncrest  Dr.,  E.  Providence,  R.I.  0291 4 
Secretary-Treasurer, H.  F.  DiZoglio,'60,  Foster  Center  Rd.,  R.F.D.  No.  1, 

Box7A,  Foster,  R.I.  02825 
Council,  W.  R.  McLeod,  Jr.,  '58, 1  28  Red  Chimney  Dr.,  Warwick,  R.I.  02886 

Rochester- Genesee 

President,  D.  L  Kerr,'65, 1 88  Long  Pond  Rd.,  Rochester,  N.Y.  1 461  2 
Vice  President,  P.J.  Bondy,'67, 1 88  Harvard  St.,  Rochester,  N.Y.  1 4607 
Secretary-Treasurer,  C.  E.  Hunt,  Jr., '34, 8  Birmingham  Dr.,  Rochester,  N.Y.  14618 
Council,  H.  A.  Hoyen,  '63, 593  St.  Rita's  Ct.,  Webster,  N.Y.  1 4580 

Southeastern 

President,  C.  Hammarstrom,  '34,  557  East  Wesley  Rd.,  N.  E.,  Atlanta,  Ga.  30305 
Secretary-Treasurer,  F.C.Bragg,  '24, 595  McAfee  St.,  N.W.,  Atlanta,  Ga.  3031 3 
Council,  C.  Hammarstrom, '34, seeabove. 

Washington  (D.C.) 

President,  D.  M.  Cornell,  '60, 9  North  Summit  Dr.,  Apt.  302,  Gaithersburg,  Md.  20760 
Vice  President,  H.  R.  Freeman, '61, 14700  Nadine  Dr.,  Rockville,  Md.  20853 
Council,  J.  M.  Smith, '37, 1 1  21  Crest  Lane,  McLean,  Va.  22101 

Wilmington 

President,  H.  F.  DeCarli,'52, 2405  Landon  Dr.,  Wilmington,  Del.  1 9803 
1  st  Vice  President,  R.  E.  Ferrari, '51 ,2404  Landon  Dr.,  Chalfonte, 

Wilmington,  Del.  19803 
2nd  Vice  President,  J.  D.  Lojewski/52,2403  Landon  Dr.,  Chalfonte, 

Wilmington,  Del.  19803 
Secretary,  D.  A.  Kujala,'52, 241 1  Sweet  Briar  Rd.,  Tarleton,  Wilmington,  Del.  1 9803 
Treasurer,  R.F.Smith,  111/61,3351  Altamont  Dr.,  Devonshire, 

Wilmington,  Del.  19083 
Members-at-large,  F.  B.  Chamberlin,'41 ,2526  Deepwood  Dr.,  Foulk  Woods, 
Wilmington,  Del.  19803 
C.  G.  Dahlstrom/34,2007  Beechwood  Dr.,Westwood  Manor, 
Wilmington,  Del.  19810 
Council,  P.  Michelman,'51 ,  241 0  Lori  Lane  South,  Tarleton,  Wilmington,  Del.  1 9803 

Worcester 

President,  C.  W.  Mello,  '61 ,  508  Pleasant  St.,  Paxton,  Mass.  01612 
Vice  President,  Thomas  P.  O'Connor,  26  Sorrento  St.,  Worcester,  Mass.  01 602 
Secretary,  P.  H.  Horstmann,'55,  Woodridge  Rd.,  Holden,  Mass. 01 520 
Treasurer,  J.  H.  McCabe/68,1 8  Viele  Ave.,  Worcester,  Mass.  01 605 
Council,  R.  A.  Seaberg,  Jr., '56, 462  Shrewsbury  St.,  Holden,  Mass.  01 520 
T.  P.  O'Connor/53,  see  above. 

J.J.  Dwyer,'33, 1 4  Sun  Valley  Dr.,  Worcester,  Mass.  01 609 
H.  O.  Painter,  Jr.,'58,  Sudbury  Rd.,  Stow,  Mass. 01 775 
P.  F.  Seibold/50, 6  Olean  St.,  Worcester,  Mass.  01 602 
F.  W.  Madigan,  Jr.,'53, 1 5  Mary  Jane  Circle,  Worcester,  Mass.  01 609 
P.  H.  Horstmann, '55, see  above. 
A.  A.  Jalil,'61 , 28  William  St.,  Worcester,  Mass. 01 609 


35 


COMPLETED 
CAREERS 


LAWRENCE   C.   JONES,   '16 

Attorney  Lawrence  C.  Jones,  78,  died 
July  9,  1972  in  Rutland,  Vermont. 

He  was  born  in  Rutland  and  later 
attended  WPI  where  he  was  a  member  of 
Phi  Sigma  Kappa  Fraternity. 

Mi.  Jones  was  a  former  five-term 
Vermont  attorney  general  and  three-term 
Rutland  County  state's  attorney.  He  was  a 
partner  in  the  law  firm  of  Jones  &  Jones. 

In  1 938  he  was  elected  president  of  the 
U.S.  Attorney  General's  Association.  His 
vice  president  was  California  Attorney 
General  Earl  Warren,  who  later  became 
Chief  Justice  of  the  U.S.  Supreme  Court. 

DONALD   H.   C.  TULLOCH,   "16 

Donald  H.  C.  Tulloch,  78,  passed  away 
June  1,  1972  in  Chadds  Ford,  Pa. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  moved  to 
Pennsylvania  27  years  ago.  For  a  number 
of  years  he  served  as  a  national  accounts 
representative  for  Union  Bag  Camp  Paper 
Corp.,  Philadelphia. 

Mr.  Tulloch,  who  was  a  chemical  engi- 
neer, was  a  member  of  Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon. 

WALTER    G.    FIELDER,   '21 

Walter  G.  Fielder  passed  away  April  21, 
1  972.  He  was  73  years  of  age. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester,  Massachu- 
setts and  graduated  from  WPI  in  1921 
with  a  degree  in  civil  engineering.  He  was 
the  retired  area  superintendent  for  Niagara 
Mohawk  Power  Corp.,  Syracuse,  N.Y. 
Previously  he  was  with  the  Illinois  State 
Highway  Dept.  and  the  U.S.  Coast  & 
Geodetic  Survey. 

A  member  of  ASCE,  he  also  belonged  to 
AIEE. 

A.   WILBUR    BARR,   '22 

A.  Wilbur  Barr,  71,  died  June  28,  1972 
in  Worcester,  Massachusetts. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  graduated  from 
WPI  in  1922  as  a  civil  engineer.  He  was  a 
member  of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa. 

Mr.  Barr  was  a  printer  and  part  owner 
of  the  former  King-Barr  Press  in  Worcester 
for  many  years  prior  to  his  retirement  in 
1967. 


JOHN   A.    MOTT,   '31 

John  A.  Mott,  63,  a  retired  civil  engineer, 
died  June  3,  1972  in  Tennessee. 

He  was  born  in  Orange,  N.J.  and  re- 
ceived his  BS  from  WPI  in  1931.  During 
his  career  he  was  employed  by  the 
Tennessee  Valley  Authority,  the  Container 
Corporation  of  America,  A.  F.  Hedman  & 
Associates  and  Gentry  Steel,  Inc.,  Chatta- 
nooga. 

Mr.  Mott  was  a  member  of  Sigma  Xi, 
Tau  Beta  Pi,  and  the  Tennessee  Society  of 
Professional  Engineers. 

BASIL   G.    CONSTANTINE,   JR.,   '58 

Basil  G.  Constantine,  Jr.,  died  May  27, 
1972  in  Beverly,  Massachusetts  at  the  age 
of  36  years. 

Born  in  Winchester,  he  graduated  from 
WPI  in  1  958  as  a  mechanical  engineer.  He 
was  the  president  and  major  stockholder 
of  Gurnard  Manufacturing  Co.,  Inc., 
Beverly.  A  pioneer  in  the  use  of  numerically 
controlled  machinery,  his  corporation 
manufactured  digital  components  for  lunar 
modules.  He  was  a  member  of  the  Nu- 
merical Control  Society,  ASME,  and  SESA. 

JAMES    L.    DeVENUTO,   '58 

James  L.  DeVenuto  passed  away  in 
June  in  Hammond,  Indiana,  following  a 
short  illness. 

He  was  born  in  Marlboro,  Mass., 
attended  WPI,  and  was  later  employed  by 
the  Progressive  Tool  Co.  of  Chicago,  III. 

BRIAN    M.    BUMPUS,    '71 

Pfc.  Brian  M.  Bumpus,  23,  an  Army 
reservist  taking  part  in  a  two-week  reserve 
training  session  at  Camp  A.  P.  Hill, 
Virginia,  was  killed  July  15  in  a  truck 
accident  near  Quantico. 

He  was  born  in  Rhode  Island  and  later 
studied  management  engineering  at  WPI. 
He  was  employed  by  The  Fair  Department 
Store  in  Auburn,  Mass. 


36 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


WPI 


ALUMNI 


TRUSTEE 


POSITIONS 


At  the  June  1972  annual  meeting 
of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association,  among 
the  articles  approved  in  the  revisions 
to  the  Constitution  and  By-laws  of  the 
Association  was  one  which  formed  a 
Trustee  Search  Committee  of  the  As- 
sociation. The  committee  is  composed 
of  five  members  representing  five  dec- 
ades of  alumni  and  they  are  charged 
with  the  responsibility  of  recom- 
mending annually  to  the  Alumni 
Council  the  name  of  at  least  one 
alumnus  for  each  alumni  vacancy 
which  exists  on  the  WPI  Board  of 
Trustees.  The  Alumni  Council  makes 
the  decisions  on  the  candidates  to  be 
nominated  for  the  positions  on  the 
Board  and  forwards  the  nominations 
to  the  Board  for  election. 

For  approximately  fifty  years  the 
Board  of  Trustees  of  WPI  has  granted 
to  the  Alumni  Association  the  priv- 
ilege of  recommending  to  the  Board 
three  candidates  per  year  for  positions 
on  the  Board.  Thus  there  are  always 
fifteen  Alumni  members  serving  on  the 
Board  as  Alumni  Trustees.  These  can- 
didates, when  elected  by  the  Board, 
serve  for  a  term  of  five  years  and  may 
be  re-elected  once. 

In  June  1973,  Dr.  John  Lott 
Brown,  '46,  Raymond  J.  Forkey,  '40, 
and  Morton  B.  Joselson  will  be  com- 
pleting their  terms  on  the  Board.  All 
three,  however,  are  eligible  to  be  re- 
elected. 

There  are  two  distinct  ways  in 
which  alumni  may  participate  in  the 
selection  of  alumni  members  of  the 
Board  of  Trustees.  First  is  the  actual 
proposal  of  the  alumnus  to  the  Alumni 
Council  for  consideration  for  an  Alum- 
ni Trustee  position.  As  stated  in  the 
By-laws  of  the  Alumni  Association, 
the  mechanics  of  proposal  are  three- 
fold and  include  alumni  chapters  pro- 
posing candidates  to  the  Alumni  Coun- 
cil by  submitting  a  signed  proposal, 
together  with  a  statement  by  the 
candidate  of  his  willingness  to  serve,  to 
the   Trustee   Search  Committee.  This 


proposal  must  contain  at  least  15 
signatures  of  chapter  members.  An- 
other method  is  for  any  group  of  at 
least  25  alumni  to  propose  a  candidate 
by  submitting  a  signed  proposal,  to- 
gether with  a  statement  by  a  candidate 
of  his  willingness  to  serve  to  the 
Trustee  Search  Committee.  For  1973 
these  proposals  must  be  received  by 
the  Secretary-Treasurer  of  the  Alumni 
Association  on  or  before  March  19, 
1973.  The  third  method  in  which 
candidates  may  be  formally  proposed 
is  by  the  Trustee  Search  Committee 
itself  which  has  the  responsibility  of 
proposing  to  the  Alumni  Council  at 
least  one  candidate  per  vacancy  each 
year.  Notice  is  hereby  given  that  peti- 
tions for  proposing  alumni  for  posi- 
tions on  the  Board  of  Trustees  are  now 
being  received  and  can  be  received  by 
the  Alumni  Secretary-Treasurer  at  any 
time  up  to  and  including  March  19, 
1973.  Sample  forms  for  the  proposal 
of  candidates  are  available  from  the 
Alumni  Secretary-Treasurer  upon  re- 
quest. 

The  second  way  for  alumni  to 
participate  is  by  suggesting  names  of 
alumni  to  the  Trustee  Search  Com- 
mittee for  future  consideration.  This  is 
an  important  input  of  candidates' 
names  to  the  committee  and  in  turn 
they  will  be  researched  and  cultivated 
by  the  committee  as  it  is  deemed 
appropriate.  It  is  the  hope  of  the 
committee  that  a  large  reservoir  of 
potential  candidates  who  should  be 
considered  and  who  would  be  honored 
by  this  consideration  can  be  devel- 
oped. Please  contact  any  member  of 
the  Committee  with  such  names  or 
submit  the  names  to  Stephen  J.  Hebert 
'66,  Alumni  Secretary-Treasurer,  c/o 
WPI  Alumni  Office. 

Committee:  Francis  S.  Harvey '37, 
Worcester,  Mass.,  C.  Eugene  Center 
'30,  Pittsburgh,  Pa.,  Robert  D.  Behn 
'63,  Cambridge,  Mass.,  William  A. 
Julian  '49,  McLean,  Virginia,  George 
E.  Saltus  '5  3,  Boulder,  Colorado. 


IE  WPI  JOURNAL 


37 


YOUR  CLASS  AND  OTHERS 


1925 

PROF.  EDWIN  HIGGINBOTTOM  has 
retired  as  Head  of  the  English  Department 
at  WPI.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  W.  YOUNG,  who 
resides  in  Concord,  Mass.,  is  a  self- 
employed  manufacturer's  agent. 

1926 

DONALD  A.  CALDER  has  retired  after 
a  "happy  and  prosperous  business  career" 
as  president  of  the  C.  S.  Brainin  Corp.  and 
as  vice  president  and  director  of  Stern 
Metals  Corp.,  Mount  Vernon,  N.Y.  Don, 
who  says  "retirement  is  great,"  is  vice 
president  of  a  "very  active  retirement  club 
of  120  members  with  all  sorts  of  activities 
five  days  a  week."  He  spends  his  winters 
in  Delray  Beach,  Fla.,  home  base  still  being 
in  Wyckoff,  N.J.  .  .  .  IRVIN  S.  WEBSTER 
retired  in  July  after  seeing  46  years  of 
service  with  the  Public  Service  Electric  and 
Gas  Company.  He  was  the  development 
engineer  in  the  Gas  Department,  General 
Office,  Newark,  N.J.  In  1926  he  started  as 
a  cadet  engineer  assigned  to  the  Summit- 
Morristown  District  as  assistant  to  the 
engineer.  Later  he  was  assigned  in  the 
same  capacity  to  the  Ridgewood  District 
in  1936.  Mr.  Webster  has  been  district 
superintendent,  Pompton  Gas  Distribution, 
and  has  served  in  a  number  of  other  re- 
sponsible positions.  He  was  named  service 
engineer  in  1960  and  development  engi- 
neer in  1970. 

1928 

FRANK  C.  TAYLOR  has  retired  as 
assistant  treasurer  and  assistant  secretary 
in  the  City  Investment  Department  of  the 
Mutual  Benefit  Life  Insurance  Company, 
Newark,  N.J.  Prior  to  joining  Mutual 
Benefit  in  1946,  he  had  been  with  the 
Irving  Trust  Company,  New  York,  the 
Prudential  Insurance  Company  in  Newark 
and  Chicago,  and  the  Brooklyn  Savings 
Bank.  .  .  .  RALPH  H.  LUNDBERG,  the 
former  vice  president  and  plant  manager 
of  Waltham  Grinding  Wheel,  Waltham, 
Mass.,  is  another  retiree. 

1929 

TAITO  K.  WALKONEN,  formerly  a  sales 
engineer  with    Consolidated    Edison    Co., 


New  York  City,  has  retired.  .  .  .  Also  retired 
is  PERCY  E.  NEWTON,  who  served  as  a 
project  engineer  for  Torrington  Co., 
Torrington,  Conn.  .  .  .  After  serving  nearly 
40  years  with  the  Connecticut  State  High- 
way Department,  WILFORD  A.  SUTTHILL 
has  retired.  He  says,  "I  enjoy  retirement  to 
the  utmost — fishing,  traveling,  swimming." 
..  .Another  retiree,  J.  BERNARD  JOSEPH, 
is  building  a  new  home  in  Cape  Coral,  Fla. 
He  retired  from  his  duties  with  the  U.S. 
Army  Materiel  Command,  Washington, 
D.C.,  last  February. . . .  CARL  H.  CARLSON 
has  retired  after  serving  28  years  as  plant 
engineer  at  Bay  State  Abrasives,  Division 
of  Dresser  Industries,  Inc.,  Westboro, 
Mass.  His  fellow  employees  recently 
honored  him  with  a  retirement  party  at 
which  he  was  presented  a  35  mm  projector. 

1930 

GEORGE  N.  SMITH  has  retired  from 
his  positions  as  industrial  engineer  and 
personnel  manager  at  Remington  Rand 
Division,  Middletown,  Conn.  Currently  he 
has  two  bovs  in  college. 

1931 

EDWARD  J.  BAYON  of  Tighe  &  Bond, 
Inc.,  Holyoke,  Mass.  has  announced  that 
The  Sippican  Corp.,  Marion,  will  purchase 
all  of  the  outstanding  stock  of  the  com- 
pany. Tighe  &  Bond  will  continue  under 
its  present  management,  become  a  division 
of  Sippican,  and  will  operate  as  a  part  of 
the  Francis  Associates  Consulting  Engi- 
neering Group.  .  .  .  EDWARD  J.  ODLUM 
was  recently  named  a  vice  president  for 
the  Hartford  region  of  the  Connecticut 
Chapter,  National  Employment  Associa- 
tion. 

1932 

HARRY  G.  MERRILL  has  retired  after 
working  for  many  years  at  Norton  Co., 
Worcester,  Mass.  . . .  BILL  AND  MARTHA 
ASP  were  seriously  injured  in  an  auto- 
mobile accident  in  Worcester  on  Friday 
night  of  Reunion  weekend.  Bill  says  they 
are  mending  well  after  he  spent  three 
weeks  himself  in  Worcester  City  Hospital 


38 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


with  a  concussion,  cracked  ribs,  phlebitis 
and  knee  problems.  Martha  spent  seven 
weeks  therewith  a  cracked  pelvis  and  in- 
ternal problems.  They  were  hit  late  at 
night  and  both  cars  involved  were  total 
wrecks.  Best  wishes  to  both  for  a  speedy 
recovery. 

1933 

GORDON  R.  WHITTUM  has  retired  as 
district  manager  of  engineering  and  plan- 
ning for  U.S.  Steel,  Realty  Development 
Division,  Worcester,  Mass.  ...  A.  ELMER 
PIHL  has  joined  Packaging  Ind's.,  Inc., 
Hyannis,  Mass.  .  .  .  CLARENCE  R. 
STREETER,  JR.,  is  the  president  of  Duko 
Mines,  Inc.,  Swansea,  Calif. 

1934 

FREDERICK  G.  WEBBER  serves  as  ad- 
ministrative assistant  to  the  vice  president 
of  engineering  at  F.  W.  Sickles  Division, 
Chicopee,  Mass.  .  .  .  PHILIP  M.  WAY  is 
now  with  Jarvis  Incinerator,  Newton  High- 
lands, Mass.  .  .  .  CAPT.  CHARLES  W. 
McELROY  was  recently  honored  at  a 
dinner  marking  his  retirement  from  32 
years  of  service  with  the  Navy  and  Naval 
Reserve.  Capt.  McElroy,  a  member  of  the 
WPI  Alumni  Council,  entered  the  Navy  in 
1940  and  saw  active  duty  with  the  Naval 
Construction  Forces  in  the  European  and 
Asiatic  theaters  of  war.  He  was  part  of  the 
amphibious  forces  that  invaded  France  on 
D-Day.  During  the  Korean  Emergency  he 
was  recalled  to  active  duty.  He  was  pro- 
moted to  the  rank  of  captain  in  1962 
following  reserve  duty  as  commanding 
officer  of  the  New  Haven  Naval  Reserve 
Construction  Battalion  and  as  public  works 
officer.  Currently  he  is  vice  president  of 
sales  at  Safety  Electrical  Equipment  Corp., 
Hamden,  Conn.  .  .  .  CURTIS  A.  HEDLER 
has  been  named  assistant  to  the  super- 
intendent of  production  operations  at  the 
Northeast  Utilities  Service  Company  in 
Berlin,  Conn.  Formerly  he  was  plant  super- 
intendent at  The  Connecticut  Light  and 
Power  Co.,  Montville  generating  station. 

1935 

ALLAN  F.  HARDY,  JR.,  is  administra- 
tive vice  president  of  Sin-Vel  Concrete 
Co.,  Littleton,  Mass. 

1936 

F.  STANLEY  WHITE  is  living  in  retire- 
ment in  Sherman  Oaks,  Calif.  Formerly  he 
was  with  Lockheed  Aircraft  Corp.,  Bur- 
bank.  .  .  .  HAROLD  N.  PIERSON  is  with 
Travelers  Insurance  Co.,  Hartford,  Conn. 

1937 

JOHN  J.  BALSAVAGE  is  currently  with 
Metallon,  Thomaston,  Conn.  .  .  .  WILLIAM 
E.  BROWN  serves  as  a  member  of  the 
technical  staff  at  North  American  Rock- 
well, Anaheim,  Calif.  .  .  .  HOWARD  W. 
OSBORN  has  retired  as  maintenance 
engineer  for  the  Panama  Canal  Co., 
Balboa,  Canal  Zone. 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


1938 

ROBERT  0.  ALEXANDER  works  at 
Union  Wadding,  Pawtucket,  R.I.  .  .  . 
NORMAN  A.  BOULEY  is  with  H.  F. 
Livermore  Corp.,  Boston. 


1939 

JOHN  A.  BACKES  serves  as  field  engi- 
neer for  Waterbury  Farrel,  Southfield, 
Mich.  .  .  .  JOHN  T.  RUSHTON  has  retired 
as  general  manager  of  Publishers  Forest 
Products  Co.,  Anacortes,  Washington.  .  .  . 
JOHN  F.  PEAVEY  is  now  process  engineer 
at     John     H.     Breck,     Inc.,     Springfield, 

Mass GEORGE  C.  GRAHAM,  JR.,  has 

employment  at  Warwick  Copy  Products, 
Inc.,  Warwick,  N.Y. 


1940 

DONALD  L.  STEVENS  is  with  White  & 
Bagley  Co.,  Worcester.  .  .  .  DONALD 
RAMAKER  serves  as  chief  design  engineer 
for  Hamilton  Standard  Division  (United 
Aircraft  Corp.),  Windsor  Locks,  Conn. 


1941 

CHARLES  L.  HOEBEL  is  assistant  to  the 
vice  president  of  Carrier  Corp.,  Syracuse, 
N.Y.  .  .  .  Bacon  Labs,  Watertown,  Mass., 
employs  EDWARD  W.  McGUINESS.  .  .  . 
GUSTAF  COONTZ  who  resides  in  Frank- 
furt, Germany,  serves  as  a  consul  for  the 
U.S.  Department  of  State.  .  .  .  K.  BLAIR 
BENSON  has  been  appointed  to  the  newly 
created  position  of  director  of  audio  and 
video  engineering  of  Goldmark  Communi- 
cations Corporation,  a  subsidiary  of  Warner 
Communications,  Inc.  Previously  he  was 
vice  president  of  electronic  video  recording 
technical  development  for  Columbia  Broad- 
casting System,  Inc.  He  also  served  as 
staff  consultant  of  advanced  technology 
for  CBS  television  network. 

1942 

ALBERT  S.  ASHMEAD  has  been  pro- 
moted to  needle  group  manufacturing 
manager  at  The  Torrington  Company's 
Needle  Division,  Torrington,  Conn.  He  will 
be  responsible  for  the  manufacture  of 
needle    products    throughout    the    world. 


THE  FIDDLE-MAKER 


Former  WPI  professor  Carl  F.  Meyer,  '22, 
currently  a  cellist  with  the  Florida  Sym- 
phony Orchestra,  thinks  that  the  violins  his 
father  made  may  one  day  rank  along  with 
those  of  Antonio  Stradivarius. 

The  Fiddle-Maker,  a  volume  which 
Meyer  had  published  in  1970,  provides  a 
number  of  persuasive  arguments  to  sub- 
stantiate that  belief. 

When  Carl's  father,  Reinhardt  Meyer 
(who  had  earlier  emigrated  to  this  country 
from  Germany),  moved  from  Lawrence  to 
Worcester  to  become  the  proprietor  of  a 
violin  repair  shop,  he  began  serious  ex- 
perimenting in  violin  making. 

Drawing  parallels  between  the  lives  of 
Stradivarius  and  his  father,  Meyer  writes: 
"Both  men  were  slow  to  attain  fame. 
.  .  .  Neither  maker  was  a  good  salesman  for 
his  own  violins.  .  .  .  Both  makers'  violins 
increased  in  value  and  quality  as  they 
matured  with  playing  and  aging." 

"Now,  after  more  than  200  years,  Strads 
carry  prices  of  thousands  of  dollars.  My 
father's  violins,  150  years  younger  than 
Strads,  are  valued  in  the  hundreds. 

"History  shows  that  many  of  the  violins 
of  the  master  makers  leave  their  active  life 
in  the  concert  hall  and  become  collectors' 


items.  They  pass  from  buyer  to  buyer  at 
ever-increasing  prices,  only  occasionally 
being  used  on  loan  to  performers." 

The  author  says  that  his  father  hoped 
that  his  violins  would  continue  to  be 
played.  He  also  suggests  that  they  might 
become  even  more  choice  to  collectors 
than  Amatis,  Guarneris  and  Strads  because 
there  are  far  fewer  of  them. 

By  1923,  he  continues,  his  father  was 
convinced  that  he  could  make  violins  as 
good  as  Strads.  His  violin-making  was 
well  publicized  at  the  time. 

Prof.  Meyer  was  already  an  author  be- 
fore he  wrote  The  Fiddle-Maker.  His  best- 
selling  college  text  book,  Route  Surveying 
and  Design  went  into  its  fourth  edition  in 
1969. 

In  1965  he  received  an  Honorary  Doctor 
of  Engineering  Degree  from  WPI  in  recog- 
nition of  his  distinguished  teaching  career 
and  outstanding  consulting  and  writing 
capabilities. 

During  his  41  years  as  professor  of  civil 
engineering  at  WPI,  cello-playing  was  an 
avocation  for  Carl  Meyer.  Since  retiring 
and  moving  to  Florida,  he  has  taken  it  up  in 
earnest.  This  is  his  sixth  season  as  a  mem- 
ber of  the  all-professional  Florida  Sym- 
phony Orchestra,  which  gives  about  75 
concerts  annually. 

And  he  has  discovered  that  he  is  truly 
his  father's  son.  He  thinks  that  the  skill  his 
father  had  in  instrument  repairing  has 
rubbed  off.  He  is  gradually  doing  more  and 
more  miscellaneous  repairing  of  stringed 
instruments  for  members  of  the  Symphony 
Orchestra  and  others. 

According  to  Prof.  Meyer,  who  is 
"actively"  retired,  "It  is  a  thrill  to  work  on 
valuable  old  Italian  violins!" 


39 


Previously  he  was  manufacturing  manager 
of  domestic  needle  divisions.  .  .  .  FRANCIS 
J.  ONEGLIA,  president  of  Oneglia  and 
Gervasini  Building  Construction,  Inc.,  has 
been  elected  to  the  board  of  directors  of 
Colonial  Bancorp,  Inc.,  and  its  subsidiary, 
the  Colonial  Bank  and  Trust  Co.  The  firm 
is  located  in  Torrington,  Conn.  .  .  .  JOHN 
M.  BARTLETT,  JR.,  has  been  appointed  as 
general  manager  of  the  American  Chain 
and  Cable  Company's  plant  in  Adrian, 
Mich.  For  the  past  two  years  he  has  been 
manager  of  ACCO's  plant  in  Monessen, 
Pa.  Previously  he  was  a  regional  sales 
manager  for  the  Wire  Machinery  Division 
of  the  Morgan  Construction  Company, 
Worcester.  .  .  .  ROBERT  H.  GRANT  is  the 
president  of  Grant  Corp.,  Newport  Beach, 
Calif. 


1943 

Currently  WILLIAM  E.  CURRIE  holds 
the  position  of  chief  engineer  for  Parker- 
Hannifin  Corp.,  Cleveland,  Ohio.  .  .  .  GAL- 
PIN  M.  ETHERINGTON  serves  as  manager 
of  process  control  and  product  develop- 
ment (Railroad  Products  Group),  Abex 
Corp.,  Calera,  Ala.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  M. 
WALKER  is  district  manager  for  The 
Torrington  Co.  (Bearings  Division),  TMeed- 
ham  Heights,  Mass.  .  .  .  KENNETH  W. 
MANSUR  has  been  appointed  to  the 
Auburn,  Mass.,  board  of  sewer  commis- 
sioners. He  is  the  manager  of  project 
engineering  for  the  Felters  Co.,  Millbury. 


1944 

STEPHEN  J.  TUREK,  JR.,  is  employed 
by  Grumman  Corp.,  Bethpage,  L.I.,  N.Y. .  . . 
ROBERT  M.  TWITCHELL  works  for  the 
Environmental  Protection  Agency,  Phila- 
delphia, Pa.  .  .  .  ROBERT  C.  BROWN,  a 
sales  service  representative  for  the  Oxford 
Paper  Division,  Ethyl  Corp.,  is  currently 
headquartered  at  Des  Plaines,  III.  .  .  . 
VLADIMIR  T.  DIMITROFF  was  co-author 
of  the  article:  "Steam  Turbine-Generator 
Control"  in  the  May  issue  of  the  magazine, 
Tappi.  He  is  the  manager  of  control  sys- 
tems engineering,  Medium  Steam  Turbine 
Generator  Product  Dept.,  General  Electric 
Co.,  Lynn,  Mass.  .  .  .  ROY  E.  BAHARIAN 
has  been  appointed  chief  engineer  of  the 
Research  and  Engineering  Division  of 
Diamond  International  Corporation.  He  will 
be  headquartered  at  the  Division's  Stam- 
ford, Conn,  office.  Previously  he  was 
assistant  director  of  manufacturing  for  the 
Diamond  Match  Division,  New  York  City, 
and  later  served  as  manager  engineering 
services  for  the  Match  and  Woodenware 
Division,  Stamford.  .  .  .  The  New  England 
Electric  System  publication.  Balance,  ran  a 
profile  of  JOHN  W.  LEBOURVEAU,  the 
manager  of  environmental  research  for  the 
System,  in  the  June  issue.  John  was 
named  manager  of  environmental  research 
in  1970.  His  responsibilities  include  the 
supervising  of  the  employees  and  con- 
tractors working  on  environmental  studies 
as  well  as  managing  the  air  pollution 
control  program. 


YOU  ATE  A  WHAT? 


Have  you  tried  a  good  steaming  cup  of 
dandelion  coffee  lately?  What  about  a 
plate  of  raccoon  pie  or  a  jar  of  sumac  jelly? 

Chances  are  that  you  haven't,  but 
Frederic  S.  Wackerbarth,  '40,  has — in  fact, 
he  makes  a  habit  of  it.  That's  because  he's 
answered  the  call  of  the  wild.  Wild  foods. 

Wackerbarth  eased  into  his  unique  diet 
a  couple  of  years  ago  while  serving  as  a 
Boy  Scout  leader  in  Granville,  Mass.  He 
knew  that  in  order  to  get  a  first  class  Boy 
Scout  rating  a  boy  was  supposed  to  find 
edible  plants.  He  decided  to  carry  things 
one  step  further  and  have  his  troop  eat  them 
after  he  had  made  a  trial  run  himself. 

The  trial  run  was,  in  a  word,  "Terrible." 
He  tried  cooking  milkweed  at  home  and 
made  the  disastrous  error  of  cooking  the 
entire  plant  instead  of  the  top  two  sets  of 
leaves. 

Going  from  milkweed  to  dandelions  was 
a  more  tasteful  experience.  He  learned  to 
dip  them  in  egg  batter,  fry  them,  roast  the 
roots  and  then  pulverize  them  to  make 
"coffee."  He  also  discovered  that  they 
make  fine  salad  greens. 

One  of  his  current  favorite  edible  plants 
is  the  red  stag  horn  sumac,  which  is  not  to 
be  confused  with  white  sumac.  He  makes 
jellies,  pies,  drinks,  vinegar,  soup,  and 
syrup  from  the  plant.  He  claims  that  20 
blossoms  will  make  50  quarts  of  juice,  and 
that  sumac  vinegar  is  a  good  meat  tender- 
izer  (at  least  for  bear  meat!).  His  sumac 
meringue  pie  has  proved  to  be  a  gastro- 
nomical  success. 

And  then  there  is  the  matter  of  the  acorns. 
If  the  squirrels  on  Wackerbarth's  property 


have  a  lean  and  hungry  look,  it  is  not  a  put- 
on.  Fred  is  an  inveterate  acorn  storer  and 
he  and  his  five  children  can  out-gather  the 
squirrels  any  time. 

Of  course,  he  doesn't  hoard  them  simply 
to  spite  the  squirrels.  He  boils  the  acorns 
until  the  water  is  clear.  (About  five  hours, 
to  take  out  the  poisonous  tannic  acid.) 
Then  he  proceeds  to  dry  out  the  meat  and 
grind  it  into  flour.  The  flour  is  ultimately 
transformed  into  acorn  pancakes,  muffins, 
and  bread,  which  is  reported  to  taste  like 
European  black  bread. 

For  the  adventuresome  —  A  Wacker- 
barth recipe! 


% 

cup  acorn  flour 

1  % 

cup  regular  flour 

4 

tbls.  baking  powder 

1 

tsp.  salt 

4 

tbls.  sugar 

1 

egg 

1 

cup  milk 

4 

tbls.  salad  oil 

Mix  ingredients  together  and  cook  at 

400  degrees 

for  one-half  hour  for  the  bread 

and  ten  min 

utes  for  the  muffins. 

And  how  does  Wackerbarth's  family  feel 
about  his  unusual  delicacies?  The  five 
children  sample  everything.  But  Mrs. 
Wackerbarth  samples  sparingly  and  ginger- 
ly. Her  husband  admits  that  she  is  repulsed 
"by  just  the  thought  of  some  of  them." 

Perhaps  it  was  the  porcupine  in  sour 
cream  that  did  it  for  Mrs.  Wackerbarth. 


1945 

JAMES  E.  BREED  has  taken  a  new  job 
with  Vitro  (Automation  Industries)  in 
Richland,  Wash.  He  works  in  a  quality 
assurance  group.  .  .  .  LIONEL  H.  SEC- 
COMBE  is  the  new  manager  of  the 
Product  and  Machine  Development  De- 
partment of  Textron's  Bostitch  Division. 
For  the  last  eight  years  he  has  been  super- 
intendent of  machine  design  for  the 
Stanley  Works  of  New  Britain,  Conn. 

1946 

WADE  E.  BARNES  is  an  associate 
member  of  Charles  T.  Main,  Inc.,  Pruden- 
tial Center,  Boston.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  W. 
STRIKER  has  employment  at  Honeywell 
Radiation  Center,  Lexington,  Mass.  .  .  . 
CARL  B.  PRITCHETT,  JR.,  serves  as  presi- 
dent of  Pritchett  Ford  Co.,  Albany, 
Ga.  .  .  .  WALTER  J.  BANK  is  a  marketing 
manager  for  Systems  Consultants,  Inc., 
Washington,  D.C.  .  .  .  NORMAN  W. 
PADDEN  is  eastern  region  sales  manager 
for  the  Singer  Co.,  Little  Falls,  N.J. 

1948 

ALAN  R.  PEARLMAN  has  been  ap- 
pointed chairman  of  the  board  of  directors 


and  director  of  Advanced  Research  and 
Development  of  ARP  Instruments,  manu- 
facturers of  electronic  musical  instruments. 
In  his  new  position  he  will  combine  overall 
company  planning  with  long-term  product 
development.  Formerly  he  was  president 
of  the  firm.  .  .  .  CHARLES  MOURADIAN 
serves  at  the  Naval  Air  Rework  Facility, 
Quonset  Point,  R.I.  .  .  .  EDWARD  R. 
WAINSHILBAUM  is  with  Hughes  Air- 
craft Co.,  Culver  City,  Ca.  .  .  .  ALBERT  E. 
RILEY  is  the  president  of  The  Hasbrook 
Corp.,  Rolling  Meadows,  III.  .  .  .  THOMAS 
H.  GROVE  has  been  promoted  from  senior 
engineer  to  engineering  associate  at 
Eastman  Kodak  Company's  Park  Division. 
Since  joining  Kodak  in  1  964  he  has  worked 
on  design  of  machinery  for  manufacturing 
film  base. 


1949 

JEREMY  W.  SMITH  was  recently  ap- 
pointed district  engineer  for  the  Massa- 
chusetts Electric  Co.,  Southbridge  Street 
operations  center,  Worcester.  He  joined 
the  Company  in  1952  as  a  junior  engineer 
and  served  most  recently  as  a  senior 
engineer.  .  .  .  BAR  Industries,  Waltham, 
Mass.,  employs  RAYMOND  B.  PHANEUF. 


40 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


1950 

JOSEPH  E.  LEMIRE  works  for  Kendall 
Co.,  Needham,  Mass.  .  .  .  John  Hancock 
Life  Insurance  Company,  Springfield, 
Mass.,  employs  ALBERT  H.  PERRY  as  an 
insurance  salesman.  .  .  .  B.  B.  KUPREWICZ 
is  a  supervisor  in  steam  design  at  DeLaval 
Turbine,  Inc.,  Trenton,  N.J. 

1951 

PHILIP  MICHELMAN  is  employed  by 
the  Film  Department  of  the  Diamond 
Shamrock  Chemical  Company,  Stratford, 
Conn.  .  .  .  Celanese  Plastics  Co.,  Belvidere, 
N.J.,  employs  ROBERT  W.  RIPLEY  as  a 
technical  superintendent.  .  .  .  ROBERT  D. 
FULMER,  manager  of  logistics  support 
planning  for  the  installation  and  service 
department  of  General  Electric  Co., 
Schenectady,  N.Y.,  was  recently  elected 
by  a  decisive  vote  to  the  Ballston  Spa 
(N.Y.)  Central  School  Board  of  Educa- 
tion. .  .  .  CHARLES  H.  BOUCHARD  is  a 
zone  manager  for  Westinghouse  Electric 
Corp.,  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 

1952 

ROBERT  L.  CUSHMAN  is  a  senior 
scientist  (computers-software)  at  Ray- 
theon, Bedford,  Mass ROY  G.  GULL- 
BERG  currently  serves  as  operations 
manager  for  DeLaval,  Inc.,  Houston,  Texas. 

1953 

MICHAEL  S.  ZUCKER  is  a  candidate 
for  the  Wappingers  Falls,  N.Y.,  School 
Board.  Zucker  is  a  senior  engineer  manager 
with  IBM,  Monansic.  Currently  he  is  chair- 
man of  an  informal  group  of  citizens 
studying  trends  in  the  quality  of  education 
provided  by  the  School  District.  He  also 
helped  organize  PAST,  a  community  group 
which  is  open  to  anyone  interested  in  im- 
proving education  in  the  Wappingers 
School  District.  .  .  .  FRANCIS  W.  MADI- 
GAN,  JR.,  has  been  elected  president  of 
the  Associated  General  Contractors  of 
Massachusetts.  He  is  treasurer  of  the  F.  W. 
Madigan  Co.,  Inc.,  Worcester.  He  is  also 
president  of  the  Worcester  General  Build- 
ing Contractors  Association,  a  director  of 
the  Kiwanis  Club,  and  serves  on  the  board 
of  management  of  the  YMCA.  ...RICHARD 
R.  CARLSON  is  now  employed  as  a  design 
engineer  for  Morgan  Construction  Co., 
Worcester.  .  .  .  PAUL  C.  MURRAY  works 
as  an  electrical  engineer  in  the  Geophysics 
Department,  Woods  Hole  Oceanographic 
Institute,  Woods  Hole,  Mass.  .  .  .  WALTER 
E.  LEVINE  is  manager  for  the  Bindicator 
Co.,  Port  Huron,  Mich. 

1954 

ANDREW  J.  MORGO  holds  the  posi- 
tion of  market  services  manager  at  Honey- 
well Information  Systems,  Phoenix,  Ariz — 
DEXTER  E.  SANFORD  is  senior  engineer 
(protection)  for  Northeast  Utilities  Service, 
Berlin,  Conn.  .  .  .  WESLEY  D.  WHEELER, 
a  naval  architect  and  marine  engineer,  is 
coordinator  of  technical  studies  at  Astil- 
leros  Espanoles,  S.A.  (Zona  Sur),  Plaza  De 


La  Victoria,  Cadiz,  Spain.  .  .  .  PAUL  A. 
WAGENKNECHT  is  a  senior  project  engi- 
neer for  Westvaco,  Wickliffe,  Ky.  .  .  . 
HENRY  M.  STRAGE  has  been  elected  a 
director  (senior  partner)  in  the  interna- 
tional management  consulting  firm  of 
McKinsey  &  Company,  New  York  City.  Mr. 
Strage,  who  has  worked  primarily  on 
McKinsey  studies  for  the  British  govern- 
ment in  London,  was  elected  a  principal 
(junior  partner)  in  1967, 

1955 

DAVID  H.  BAGLEY  is  a  sales  engineer 
for  New  England  Controls,  Inc.,  Natick, 
Mass.  .  .  .  ROBERT  E.  RASCOE  is  with 
New  Britain  Specialty,  New  Britain, 
Conn.  .  .  .  Co-owner  of  Mardi  Construction 
Co.,  West  Springfield,  Mass.,  is  HENRY 
F.  SPADONI,  JR.  .  .  .  DR.  ALAN  W.  EDE 
is  a  self-employed  electronics  engineer  in 
Corvallis,  Oregon.  .  .  .  BRIAN  J.  KELLY  is 
studying  for  one  year  at  MIT  on  a  Sloan 
fellowship.  He  is  with  the  Bell  Telephone 
Co.  of  Pennsylvania. 

1956 

Smyth  Manufacturing  Co.  of  Bloom- 
field,  Conn.,  employs  ROBERT  A.  FOISIE 
of  West  Hartford.  .  .  .  JOSEPH  A.  MAR- 
COTTE  works  for  Boston  Woven  Hose, 
Cambridge,  Mass.  .  .  .  JAMES  C.  KUBIK  is 
with  Missile  Systems  Division,  Raytheon 
Co.,  Bedford,  Mass.  .  .  .  RICHARD  G. 
HAJEC  currently  serves  as  marketing 
manager  for  Rotron,  Inc.,  Woodstock,  N.Y. 

1957 

GEORGE  P.  PROZZO  is  now  manager, 
tape  instrumentation  engineering,  Sangamo 
Electric  Company,  Springfield,  III.  .  .  . 
ROBERT  H.  BECKETT  serves  as  a  market- 
ing manager  for  Decision  Data  Computer 
Corp.,  Horsham,  Pa.  .  .  .  JOSEPH  C. 
GINKUS,  JR.,  is  with  Northeast  Beauty 
Distributors,  Inc.,  Worcester.  .  .  .  DANIEL 
J.  FISHER,  JR.,  holds  the  position  of 
project  engineer  for  Leesona  Corp.,  War- 
wick, R.I ROBIN  AW  is  with  the  Mand 

Carpet  Mills,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

1958 

Ensign  Bickford  Co.,  Simsbury,  Conn., 
employs  ROGER  W.  ANDERSON  as  a 
sales  engineer.  .  .  .  JOHN  D.  COLTON  is 
currently  employed  by  Automatic  Manufac- 
turing Co.,  Chicopee,  Mass.  .  .  .  ROLAND 
A.  CORMIER  is  with  IBM  Corp.,  Chicago, 
III.  .  .  .  JOHN  H.  PORTER  is  employed  by 
General  Cable,  New  York  City. 

1959 

JOHN  E.  McGINNIS  recently  joined 
Westinghouse  Security  System,  Windsor, 

Conn JOHN  H.  BRITT,  JR.,  is  a  child 

care  coordinator  for  the  state  of  Massachu- 
setts. ...  A.  DAVID  DICKERT,  manager  of 
market  development  in  the  coatings  de- 
partment for  Rohm  and  Haas  Company, 
was  co-author  of  the  article,  "A  Non- 
Metallic  Paint  Mildewcide  and  Can  Pre- 
servative For  the  Seventies"  which  ap- 
peared in  the  May  issue  of  American  Paint 
Journal.    .    .   .  WINDLE    B.    PRIEM,  vice 


president  of  the  Marine  Midland  Bank  in 
New  York,  has  been  appointed  the  U.S. 
Small  Business  Administration's  Deputy 
Regional  Director  for  New  York.  Priem  has 
served  as  Deputy  Head  of  the  Marine  Mid- 
land Bank's  Nassau  County  Regional 
office.  As  Deputy  to  the  Director  of  SBA's 
Region  II,  he  will  be  responsible  for  the 
territory  of  New  York,  New  Jersey,  and 
Puerto  Rico. 

1960 

RONALD    F.    POKRAKA    is    marketing 
manager  for  Industrial    Dynamics,   Penn- 

sauken,  N.J EDWARD  J.  RUSSELL  is 

an  operations  executive  with  ITT  Corp., 
New  York  City.  .  .  .  FIDELE  L.  DiPIPPO  is 
presently  employed  by  the  General  Elec- 
tric Co.,  Schenectady,  N.Y.  Previously  he 
served  the  company  in  Phoenix,  Ariz.  .  .  . 
JOHN  S.  VALE  has  joined  Polaroid  Corp., 
Cambridge,  Mass KENNETH  L.  MAT- 
SON  has  been  named  superintendent  of 
the  Audubon  district  of  Public  Service 
Electric  &  Gas  Co.,  Trenton,  N.J.  Formerly 
he  was  superintendent  of  the  Trenton 
district.  .  .  .  ROBERT  A.  CROOK  serves  as 
senior  engineer  for  IBM,  Essex  Junction, 
Vt.  .  .  .  DANIEL  Z.  GOULD  is  a  senior 
engineer  at  Fenwal  Electronics,  Framing- 
ham,  Mass. 

1961 

Married:  RICHARD  W.  JOHNSON  to 
Miss  Connie  Clifford  on  April  29,  1972  in 
Westport,  Connecticut.  The  groom,  who 
has  a  master's  degree  from  New  York 
University,  is  employed  by  Perkin  Elmer 
Company  of  Wilton. 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  THOMAS  E. 
POSTMA,  a  son,  David  J.,  on  April  24, 
1 972.  Postma  is  with  Delco  Electronics, 
Division  of  General  Motors,  Milwaukee, 
Wis. 

MAJOR  NORMAN  I.  GINSBURG  re- 
cently assumed  command  of  the  69th 
Signal  Battalion  of  the  Military  Assistance 
Command,  Vietnam.  (Communications 
Center  Company)  .  .  .  RICHARD  V. 
O'BRIEN,  (SIM),  has  been  named  indus- 
trial relations  manager  of  Bay  State  Abra- 
sives of  Westboro,  Mass.,  Division  of 
Dresser  Industries,  Inc.  He  joined  the  Com- 
pany in  1942  and  was  personnel  manager 
before  this  appointment.  .  .  .  RICHARD  E. 
TAYLOR  currently  works  as  assistant  chief 
engineer,  office  of  instructional  develop- 
ment. Harvard  University  School  of  Public 
Health.  .  .  .  JOHN  J.  GABARRO  recently 
received  his  PhD  from  Harvard  University. 
Presently  he  is  an  assistant  professor  at 
Harvard  Business  School.  .  .  .  PETER  K. 
BINGHAM  serves  in  the  nuclear  division 
of   the    General    Electric    Co.,   San    Jose, 

Calif DAVID  A.  FREDERICK  works  for 

the  New  York  Telephone  Co.,  Albany.  .  .  . 
DR.  PETER  J.  NATALE  is  now  a  research 
associate  at  MIT,  Department  of  Biology, 
Cambridge,  Mass.  .  .  .  WPI  PROF.  ROGER 
R.  BORDEN  has  been  named  pastor  of  the 
Methodist  Church,  Charlton  City,  Mass. . . . 
MARK  BRITANISKY  is  general  manager 
for  Service  Automatics,  Copiague,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
ROBERT  R.  HALE  is  program  manager  for 
Electron  Tube  Division,  Easton,  Pa. 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


41 


r 


General  Telephone  &  Electronics,  730  Third  Ave.,  New  York,  N.Y.  10017 


This  man 
will  never  die 

Headache,  dizziness,  and  double  vision;  it  could  be  a 
brain  tumor.  Fever,  and  an  elevated  white  blood  cell  count, 
with  a  shift  to  the  left;  it  could  be  meningitis.  Blood  pres- 
sure, 240/150;  itcould  be  malignant  hypertension. 

The  symptoms  are  real,  but  the  patient  isn't. 

Connected  to  terminals  in  classrooms  at  the  University 
of  Illinois  Medical  School,  a  Tempo  Communications  proc- 
essor, provided  by  GTE  Information  Systems,  acts  as  a 
super-efficient  secretary  to  the  main  computer,  accepting 
information  and  firing  out  answers. 

A  medical  student  considers  the  information  provided  by 
the  computer,  diagnoses  the  condition,  and  proposes  a 
course  of  treatment.  If  his  diagnosis  and  treatment  are  cor- 
rect, the  computer  gives  him  an  "A"  grade. 

If  he's  wrong,  the  computer  puts  the  pressure  on. 

The  hypothetical  patient  returns  with  additional  com- 
plaints. This  time,  the  student  doctor  has  less  theoretical 
help  at  hand.  Instead  of  seeing  the  patient  in  the  hospital 
emergency  room,  as  he  did  the  first  time,  the  computer 
tells  him  that  it's  3  a.m.  at  his  doorstep.  The  symptoms  ap- 
pear far  more  serious,  and  the  correct  diagnosis  is  that 
much  more  critical. 

If  he's  wrong  again,  nobody  dies. 

Teaching  medical  students  to  be  right  can't,  and 
shouldn't,  be  achieved  by  computers.  That's  the  work  of 
experienced,  dedicated  professors  of  medicine.  But  as  a 
trainingaid,  the  computer  has  a  lot  to  offer,  and  we're  proud 
of  the  contribution  to  this  program  that  General  Telephone 
&  Electronics  has  been  able  to  make. 

Before  he  begins  his  practice,  we'd  like  every  new  doctor 
to  practice  on  us.  ^j^^ 


GEnERALTELEPHOnE  G  ELECTROniCS 


MORGAN 

CONSTRUCTION  COMPANY 


15  Belmont  Street,  Worcester,  Mass.  01B05 

Serving  the  Ferrous  and  Non-Ferrous  World  Markets  since  1888  as 
Engineers  and  Manufacturers  of  Rolling  Mills,  Morgoil  Bearings, 
Wire  Drawing  Machinery  and  Furnace  Equipment 


1962 

WILLIAM  D.  HANNINEN  is  a  self- 
employed  contractor  in  Markville,  Minn.  .  . . 
ROGER  G.  MASSEY  has  been  appointed 
as  vice  president  and  works  manager  of 
Parker  and  Harper  Co.,  Worcester,  Mass., 
a  manufacturer  of  automatic  screw  machine 
products  and  assemblies.  He  is  treasurer  of 
the  New  England  Chapter  of  the  National 
Screw  Products  Association.  .  .  .  PHILIP 
M.  KEENAN  is  an  employee  of  Colt  Fire- 
arm, Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  GEORGE  W. 
HOLMAN  works  for  Holanan  Engineering 
Inc.,  Agawam,  Mass. . . .  DAVID  N.  LYONS 
is  a  sanitary  engineer  at  U.S.E.P.A., 
Washington,  D.C. . . .  PAUL  E.  ENGSTROM 
has  joined  The  Hartford's  life  insurance 
actuarial  staff  and  has  been  elected  an 
associate  actuary.  He  will  have  responsi- 
bilities for  individual  and  special  risk- 
health  insurance. . . .  WILLIAM  E.  C.  WARR 
III  is  with  Warr's  Marine,  Wareham,  Mass. 

1963 

DONALD  L.  CHAFFEE  received  his 
PhD  in  electrical  engineering  at  UCLA  in 
June.  .  .  .  IBM  Corp.,  Poughkeepsie,  N.Y., 
employs  ROBERT  M.  MARTINEZ.  .  .  .  G. 
WILLIAM  HARTMAN  has  joined  Meta 
Chemical  Co.,  Wheeling,  III.  .  .  .  ARTHUR 
F.  DARLEY  is  with  the  DPW,  Boston.  .  .  . 
CAPT.  JAMES  A.  VELEZIS  is  with  the 
Army  Corps  of  Engineers,  Ft.  Belvoir, 
Va.  .  .  .  JOHN  B.  LOJKO  is  a  salesman  for 
Wang  Laboratories,  Inc.,  New  York  City. 

1964 

ERNEST  E.  CHENOWETH  has  employ- 
ment as  an  instructor  at  Thayer  Academy, 

Braintree,  Mass ROBERT  R.  DANGEL- 

MAYER  is  with  Digital  Equipment,  Wal- 
tham,  Mass.  .  .  .  JAMES  C.  KNUDSON 
works  for  the  State  of  Washington,  Depart- 
ment of  Air  Pollution.  .  .  .  MDC  Systems 
Corp.,  New  York  City,  employs  WILLIAM 
S.  SHURBET.  .  .  .  CHRISTOPHER  R. 
ALMY  has  accepted  a  position  as  a 
structural  engineer  at  General  Electric's 
Knolls  Atomic  Power  Laboratory,  Sche- 
nectady, N.Y.  Formerly  he  was  with  the 
U.S.  Army  Electronics  Command  at  Fort 
Monmouth,  N.J.  .  .  .  THOMAS  M.  BOYLE 


is  a  systems  engineer  for  IBM  Corp., 
Washington,  D.C. . . .  STEVEN  T.  CH  URCH- 
ILL  has  employment  as  a  design  engineer 
for  Executone,  Stamford,  Conn.  .  .  . 
ALFRED  H.  HEMINGWAY,  JR.,  has  passed 
the  California  and  New  York  bar  examina- 
tions. He  was  graduated  from  the  law 
school  at  Stanford  University  in  California 
last  June.  .  .  .  PAUL  J.  KEATING,  vice 
president  of  P.  J.  Keating  Company,  pre- 
sided at  the  commencement  exercises  at 
Notre  Dame  High  School,  Fitchburg. 

1965 

RAJ  KUMAR  K.  BAJAJ  has  been  named 
chairman  of  the  sustaining  membership 
enrollment  for  the  Woodstock  (N.Y.) 
region  of  the  Boy  Scouts  of  America.  He  is 
a    project    manager    at    IBM,    Kingston, 

N.Y 0.  WILLIAM  BJORNLUND,  SIM, 

has  employment  with  Warner  &  Swasey 
Co.,  Grinding  Machine  Division,  Worces- 
ter. . . .  MICHAELS.  DEMBSKI  is  marketing 
manager  for  Continental  Can  Co.,  New 
York  City.  .  .  .  CHARLES  J.  DeSIMONE, 
JR.,  works  as  a  senior  credit  analyst  at 
Hartford  National  Bank  &  Trust,  Hartford, 
Conn.  .  .  .  HARRY  S.  FORREST  holds  the 
position  of  process  development  engineer 
in  the  fibers  technical  department  of  the 
American  Viscose  Division,  FMC  Corp., 
Marcus  Hook,  Pa.  .  .  .  Combustion  Engi- 
neering, Windsor,  Conn.,  employs  RAY- 
MOND C.  JACQUES.  .  .  .  STEPHEN  N. 
KIMANI  is  a  medical  student  at  the  College 
of  Human  Medicine,  Michigan  State  Uni- 
versity, East  Lansing.  .  .  .  PAUL  R.  PEAR- 
SON is  in  the  computation  and  program- 
ming department  of  the  Kearfott  Division 
of  the  Singer  Co.,  Wayne,  N.J.  .  .  .  USAF 
CAPTAIN  FRANCIS  J.  PINHACK,  JR.,  a 
T-38  Talon  instructor  pilot,  has  been 
assigned  to  a  unit  of  the  Air  Training  Com- 
mand at  Moody  AFB,  Ga.  .  .  .  PHILIP  B. 
RYAN  was  recently  appointed  to  the 
planning  board  of  the  city  of  Manchester, 
N.H.  He  is  principal  of  the  management 
services     department     of     Nathanial     F. 

Bigelow  and  Co EDWARD  R.  REGAN 

recently  received  his  master's  degree  in 
business  management  from  Northeastern 
University.  He  is  a  development  engineer 
with    USM    Corp.,    Beverly,    Mass.    .    .    . 


HALLETT  A.  WRIGHT  is  a  sales  engineer 
for  R.  L.  Stone  Co.,  Inc.,  Buffalo,  N.Y. 


1966 

MICHAEL  C.  NAPOLITANO  is  involved  I 
in    circuit    design    at    IdeaLab,    Franklin, 
Mass.  .  .  .  ROBERT  A.  FULOP  now  works  . 
for    J.    J.    Sullivan    Co.,    West    Hartford, 
Conn.  .  .  .  GERALD  J.  PARKER  is  a  unit  ! 
chief    for    the    Environmental    Protection 
Agency,  Research  Triangle  Park,  N.C.  .  .  .  ' 
GARY  M.  ANDERSON  is  studying  in  the 
civil  engineering  department  at  Duke  Uni- 
versity,  Durham,  N.C.  .   .   .    DONALD   E. 
MCCARTHY  is  with  the  U.S.  Navy  Engi- 
neering Command,  Navy  Yard,  Washington, 
D.C. 


1967 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  WAYNE  M. 
CHIAPPERINI  a  son,  Robert  Frank,  on 
September  20,  1 971 .  Wayne,  who  recently 
received  his  master's  degree  in  civil  engi- 
neering from  the  University  of  Connecti- 
cut, is  now  doing  research  and  develop- 
ment on  industrial  wastewater  treatment 
systems  for  FRAM  Corp.,  Providence,  R.I. 

RICHARD  M.  GUTKOWSKI  serves  as  a 
teaching  assistant  for  the  Department  of 
Civil  &  Environmental  Engineering,  at  the 
University  of  Wisconsin,  Madison.  .  .  . 
PAUL  B.  CHERUBINI  works  as  a  sales 
engineer  at  Standard  Sign  &  Signal  Co., 

Inc.,  Clinton,  Mass THOMAS  Y.  LIU  is 

a  technician  for  E.  I.  Du  Pont  Co.,  Saugus, 
Calif.  .  .  .  STANLEY  P.  PIETREWICZ  has 
employment  as  a  computer  analyst  at  New- 
port News  Shipyard  in  Virginia.  .  .  . 
BHOOPEN  K.  KURANI  is  a  project  engi- 
neer for  Souza  &  True,  Inc.,  Cambridge, 
Mass.  .  .  .  USAF  CAPT.  JONATHAN  P. 
WORTHLEY  has  entered  the  Air  Force 
Institute  of  Technology,  Wright-Patterson 
AFB,  Ohio,  where  he  will  study  toward  a 
master's  degree  in  electrical  engineering. 
. .  .  CHARLES  H.  GOODSPEED  III  recently 
received  his  PhD  in  Civil  Engineering  from 
the  University  of  Cincinnati.  He  was  also 
elected  to  Sigma  Pi.  Dr.  Goodspeed  has 
accepted  an  assistant  professorship  at 
Carnegie-Mellon  Institute,  Pittsburgh.  .  .  . 
JOSEPH  J.  CIEPLAK  has  been  appointed 
assistant  to  the  director  of  public  relations 
at  the  University  of  New  Haven.  In  June  he 
was  presented  the  Dean's  Award  for  out- 
standing service  to  the  University.  .  .  . 
FRANCIS  R.  CHIARILLO  is  with  Travelers 
Insurance,  Hartford,  Conn. 

CARMEN  DELLA  VECCHIA  has  re- 
ceived his  master's  degree  in  mathematics 
from  St.  Mary's  in  Texas. 


1968 
Married:  STEPHEN  M.  HOLUB  to  Mis: 
Sarah  T.  Dougherty  on  May  27  in  Ridge- 
field,  Conn.  The  bride  is  merchandising 
editor  of  House  and  Garden  Magazine.  The 
groom  is  a  chemical  engineer  for  Union 
Carbide  Corp.,  Molecular  Sieve  Division, 
Tarrytown,  N.Y.  .  .  .  SCOTT  W.  RAMSAY 
and  Miss  Gretchen  L.  Harris  in  Skowhegan, 


. 


44 


THE  WPI  JOURNAI 


Me.,  on  June  1 0.  Mrs.  Ramsay  is  employed 
as  communications  consultant  for  the  New 
England  Telephone  Co.,  Boston.  Scott  is  a 
candidate  for  an  MBA  degree  at  the 
Whittemore  School  of  Business,  University 
of  New  Hampshire,  Durham. 

Married:  A.  LEONARD  BERGQUIST  to 
Miss  Beatrice  Marie  Powell  in  Greenwich, 
Connecticut,  on  July  1,  1972.  MICHAEL 
LATINA  was  one  of  the  ushers.  Mrs. 
Bergquist,  a  graduate  of  the  University 
of  Connecticut,  is  a  teacher  in  the  Green- 
wich school  system.  Her  husband  is  a 
field  engineer  with  Beckman  Instruments 
Co.,  Inc.,  Wakefield,  Mass.  .  .  .  CAPT. 
RICHARD  G.  PERREAULT  and  Miss 
Helga  M.  Fink  on  May  27  in  Kitzingen, 
Germany.  Capt.  Perreault  has  served  in 
Germany  since  1 969. 

Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  KENNETH  H. 
TURNBULL  their  first  child,  a  son,  John  P. 
Turnbull,  on  July  9,  1972. 

CARL  R.  DUPRE  writes  that  he  is  a 
student  at  the  University  of  Massachusetts 
Graduate  School.  .  .  .  GEORGE  K.  FAIR- 
BANKS works  for  Tryon  Mfg.,  Shelton, 
Conn.  .  .  .  STEVEN  C.  HALSTADT  is  at 
Amos  Tuck  School,  Dartmouth  College, 
Hanover,  N.H.  .  .  .  Currently  JOSEPH  F. 
HILYARD  works  as  assistant  research 
engineer.  Highway  Safety  Research  Insti- 
tute, University  of  Michigan,  Ann  Arbor. 
.  .  .  HYMAN  S.  LOFCHIE  serves  as  a  de- 
signer for  C.  T.  Main,  S.  E.  Tower,  Pruden- 
tial Center,  Boston.  .  .  .  JOSEPH  S.  SATIN 
is  with  Joseph  Satin  Co.,  Shelton,  Conn. 
.  .  .  LEO  T.  SPRECHER  does  computer  re- 
:  search  for  the  General  Telephone  &  Elec- 
tronics Laboratory,  Bayside,  N.Y.  .  .  .  TER- 
RENCE  P.  SULLIVAN  is  a  stockbroker- 
retail  sales,  for  White  Weld  and  Co.,  Inc., 
Boston.  .  .  .  RONALD  G.  CUMMINGS  is 
at  Suffolk  Law  School,  Boston. 

DANIEL  R.   ROY  recently  received  his 
master's  degree,  with  honors,  from  North- 
eastern    University.     He    is    employed    at 
I  General  Electric,  Lynn,  Mass. 

KEITH  L.  VAN  BUSKIRK,  who  is  attend- 
ing Suffolk  Law  School,  is  president  of 
Land  Auction  Bureau,  Boston.  .  .  .  GREG- 
ORY H.  SOVAS  is  assistant  sanitary  engi- 
n  neer  for  the  New  York  State  Division  of 
Air  Resources,  Albany,  N.Y.  .  .  .  GEORGE 
R.  BAZINET  is  a  programmer  for  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft.  .  .  .  VICTOR  V.  CALA- 
BRETTA    has    been    employed    by    C.    E. 

Maguire,  Inc.,  Providence,  R.I ROBERT 

A.  FALCIANI  serves  as  a  stress  engineer 
for  Stone  &  Webster  Engineering  Corp., 
Boston. 

1969 

Married:  GORDON  J.  MEARS  and  Miss 
Donna  Elizabeth  Wise  on  May  20,  1972  in 

-Lunenburg,      Massachusetts.      MICHAEL 

iGAN  was  an  usher.  The  bridegroom  is 
employed  by  the  General  Electric  Co., 
Fitchburg,  Mass.  .  .  .  LESLIE  T.  HATCH  to 
Miss  Kathleen  P.  Nugent  in  Dorchester, 
Massachusetts,  November  5,  1971.  Hatch 
is  employed  by  Metcalf  &  Eddy,  Boston, 

I  where  he  is  involved  with  a  research  group. 

[Currently  he  is  running  an  industrial  waste 

f  pilot  plant  under  an  EPA  grant. 


HELP  FOR  PARTIALLY  SIGHTED 


A  new,  low-cost  system  which  can  help 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  legally  blind  per- 
sons to  read  and  write  again  has  been  in- 
troduced by  Visualtek,  Santa  Monica,  Calif. 

Larry  Israel,  '61,  president  of  the  firm, 
says  that  "with  this  system,  nearly-blind 
people  not  only  can  read  or  write  whatever 
they  want  —  without  assistance  —  they 
can  return  to  hobbies  and  jobs  they  had 
to  give  up  when  their  sight  failed.  They 
can  return  to  more  normal  lives." 

Known  as  the  Visualtek  Read/Write 
System  (RWS)  and  selling  from  $795  to 
$2,000,  the  portable  device  makes  use  of 
a  TV  camera  system  with  zoom  lens, 
special  high-illumination  lighting,  and  a 
viewing  table  for  scanning.  All  can  be  con- 
nected to  a  conventional  black  and 
white  TV  set  for  viewing. 

The  system  can  be  used  effectively  by 
any  partially  sighted  person  who  can  read 
two-inch  letters  at  close  range.  To  read, 
the  user  of  the  RWS  closed-circuit  TV 
system  merely  places  his  reading  material 
on  the  table  under  the  camera  lens,  adjusts 
magnification  and  light  intensity,  and 
operates  a  scanning  control,  while  read- 
ing the  enlarged,  brightened  words  on  the 
TV  screen.  To  write,  he  places  his  paper 
on  the  table  under  the  lens  and  writes, 
checking  his  progress  on  the  TV  screen.  Or, 
he  can  type  with  the  system  using  any 
conventional  manual  or  electric  type- 
writer. 


The  ingenious  "reading  machine,"  with 
magnification  of  up  to  30  times,  allows 
many  visually  handicapped  individuals  to 
read  and  write  with  ease  and  speed, 
even  with  visual  acuity  as  low  as  5/800  in 
their  better  eye. 

Based  on  concepts  developed  at  the 
Rand  Corporation  under  the  sponsorship 
of  the  U.  S.  Department  of  Health  and 
Welfare,  the  Visualtek  Read/Write  System 
is  being  rented,  leased  or  purchased 
principally  by  agencies,  institutions,  and 
nationwide  organizations.  Public  libraries 
and  some  veterans  administrations  have 
found  the  unit  especially  helpful.  The 
Perkins  School  for  the  Blind,  Boston,  and 
The  Florida  State  School  for  the  Blind  are 
among  the  special  schools  making  use  of 
the  equipment. 

Larry  Israel,  one  of  the  founders  of  the 
year-old  Visualtek  company,  has  dis- 
covered that  the  results  of  his  new  venture 
can  be  most  gratifying.  He  says,  "The 
testimonial  letters  we  get  from  satisfied 
customers,  expressing  such  immense  grat- 
itude at  their  new-found  ability  to  read 
and  write  as  they  have  never  been  able  to 
do  since  they  lost  their  sight,  is  truly  re- 
warding. It's  especially  heart-warming 
when  we  receive  information  about  a 
young  child,  or  a  high  school  or  college 
student  whose  life  has  been  altered 
markedly  because  of  our  Read/Write 
System." 


Married:  DAVID  J.  BARRETT  to  Miss 
Theresa  Ann  Monroe  on  June  10,  1972  in 
Worcester,  Mass.  David  is  a  service  engi- 
neer at  Riley  Stoker  Corp RENE  J.  ROY 

and  Miss  Gail  Ann  Kmiotek  on  June  10  in 
Whitinsville,  Mass.  Mrs.  Roy,  a  graduate  of 
North   Shore   Children's   Hospital,   is   em- 


ployed as  a  licensed  practical  nurse.  Rene 
has  employment  as  an  electrical  engineer 
at  Raytheon,  Bedford,  Mass.  .  .  .  JOHN  E. 
CONNELL,  JR.,  and  Miss  Birgitte  Nicolaj- 
sen  on  June  3  in  Kolind,  Denmark.  The 
bride  is  a  graduate  of  Arhus  University  in 
Arhus,  Denmark  where  the  groom  has  also 


TE  WPI  JOURNAL 


45 


been  studying.  .  .  .  JOHN  S.  SIMPSON  to 
Miss  Jeanne  Marie  Drapeau  on  July  1, 
1972  in  Tiverton,  R.I.  Mrs.  Simpson  is  a 
teacher  in  the  Portsmouth  School  System. 
Her  husband  is  employed  at  the  Naval 
Underwater  Systems  Center  in  New- 
port. .  .  .  FRANCIS  W.  SKWIRA  to  Miss 
Gerald  Carreker  Fowler  on  June  24  in 
Atlanta,  Ga.  The  bride  has  received  a 
master's  degree  in  French  literature  from 
Emory  University  in  Atlanta.  The  groom  is 
employed  by  the  General  Electric  Co.,  San 
Jose,  Calif. 

RICHARD  D.  ALPERT  is  on  sabbatical 

leave  in  Europe STEPHEN  R.  ANDRU- 

CHOW  is  a  construction  engineer  for 
Stephen  Andruchow,  Inc.,  West  Warwick, 
R.I.  .  .  .  DAVID  W.  EATON  serves  as  sys- 
tems programmer  for  General  Electric 
Company,  Phoenix,  Arizona.  .  .  .  THOMAS 
C.  GURNEY  is  a  student  at  Central  Bible 
College,  Springfield,  Missouri.  .  .  .  ROY  C. 
JOHNSON,  JR.,  recently  received  his 
PhD  in  civil  engineering  from  Rice  Uni- 
versity, Houston,  Texas.  .  .  .  PHILIP  M. 
KAZEMERSKY  is  a  nuclear  engineer  for 
the  Tennessee  Valley  Authority  in  Chatta- 
nooga. .  .  .  Z.  RONALD  STELMAK  serves 
as  a  sales  engineer  for  Westinghouse  and 
is  currently  located  in  Syracuse,  JM.Y.  .  .  . 
MICHAEL  W.  NOGA  has  employment 
with  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston.  .  .  .  CARL 
NOTHNICK  is  with  Westinghouse  Elec- 
tric, Baltimore,  Md.  .  .  .  STEPHEN  R. 
PHILLIPS  is  completing  his  thesis  for  his 
MS  in  industrial  design  at  the  Institute  of 
Design,  Illinois  Institute  of  Technology. 

GREGORY  E.  POLLACK  is  assistant 
marketing  manager  in  the  micrographic 
division  of  Canon  USA,  Inc.,  Lake  Success, 
N.Y.  .  .  .  GERALD  M.  ROBBINS  is  a 
graduate  student  in  the  department  of 
landscape  architecture  at  the  University  of 
Illinois.  .  .  .  RONALD  P.  ROSADINI  is  a 
teacher  in  the  Torrington,  Conn.  School 
System ROBERT  J.  SCOTT  is  a  gradu- 
ate student  in  city  and  regional  planning 
at  Cornell  University,  Ithaca,  N.Y. 

NEIL  M.  GLICKSTEIN  has  been  ap- 
pointed math-science  teacher  at  Home 
Base  School,  Watertown,  Mass. 

1970 

Married:  A.  PATTON  ABBE  II  to  Miss 
Christine  Driscoll  on  May  28,  1972  in 
Windham  Center,  Connecticut.  Abbe  is  the 
owner  of  Keats  Krafts  Clothing  Store  in 
Mystic,  Conn.  His  bride  is  employed  as  a 
model  for  the  portrait  painter,  Robert 
Brackman,  N.A.  of  Noank,  Conn.  .  .  . 
RICHARD  F.  ABRAMS  to  Miss  Jean  M. 
Parker  on  June  10  in  Spencer,  Mass.  The 
bride  is  an  elementary  art  teacher  in  the 
Spencer  schools.  Her  husband  is  with 
Artisan  Industries,  Waltham,  Mass. 

Married:  MARK  E.  BROWN  and  Miss 
Carolyn  Marie  Gilbertson  June  17,  1972 
in  Battle  Lake,  Minn.  Mrs.  Brown  has  com- 
pleted graduate  studies  in  social  work  at 
Washington  University,  St.  Louis.  Mr. 
Brown  is  a  candidate  for  a  doctorate  in 
chemical  engineering  at  the  University  of 
Minnesota,  Minneapolis.  .  .  .  RALPH 
DilORIO  to  Miss  Rosemary  Calcagno  in 


46 


Seaford,  N.Y.  on  June  3.  Ralph  is  a  senior 
engineer  for  ATT  Long  Lines  Department. 
.  .  .  DUNCAN  H.  GILLIES  and  Miss 
Patricia  M.  Teczar  on  July  7,  1972  in 
Worcester,  Massachusetts.  The  bride 
teaches  at  Union  Hill  School.  The  bride- 
groom is  with  the  Massachusetts  Electric 
Co.  .  .  .  ROGER  P.  HENZE  to  Miss  Judy 
Lynn  Welch  in  North  Adams,  Massachu- 
setts on  July  15,  1972.  Mrs.  Henze  is  a 
student  at  North  Adams  State  College.  Mr. 
Henze  is  a  candidate  for  his  master's 
degree  in  city  and  regional  planning  from 
Cornell  University  this  year. 

KENNETH  C.  BASSMANN,  who  was 
recently  promoted  to  first  lieutenant  in  the 
U.S.  Air  Force,  has  received  an  award  for 
a  military  improvement  suggestion  which 
he  gave  at  Andrews  AFB,  Md.  He  is  a 
communication-electronics  officer  with 
the  Air  Force  Communications  Service.  .  .  . 
2/LT.  GERRY  A.  BLODGETT  has  com- 
pleted a  nine-week  ordnance  officer  basic 
course  at  the  Army  Ordnance  Center  and 
School,  Aberdeen  Proving  Ground,  Mary- 
land. .  .  .  JAMES  HANNOOSH  was 
awarded  a  master  of  science  degree  in 
mechanical  engineering  from  MIT  last 
June.  He  has  been  accepted  for  the 
doctoral  program  in  the  field  of  material 
behavior  at  MIT. .  .  .  JERRY  L.  JOHNSON, 
who  received  his  MS  from  Holy  Cross  this 
year,  is  starting  his  PhD  program  at 
Dartmouth  College,  Hanover,  N.H.,  this 
fall.  .  .  .  PETER  F.  LALOR  was  recently 
awarded  hisma.ster's  degree  in  metallurgy 
from  the  University  of  Connecticut.  .  .  . 
JOHN  J.  LYONS  is  a  systems  programmer 
for  WPI KALVIN  W.  NGOON  is  a  pro- 
gramming trainee  at  State  Mutual  Life 
Assurance  Co.,  Worcester.  .  .  .  1/LT. 
DENNIS  L.  NOVAK  has  completed  the 
four-week  Army  Alaska  Summer  Leader's 
Course  at  the  Northern  Warfare  Training 
Center,  Ft.  Greely,  Alaska.  He  is  a  platoon 
leader  at  Ft.  Wainwright,  Alaska.  .  .  . 
GEORGE  E.  PHILIPPON  has  been  named 
systems  manager,  Identicard  division  of 
Management  Service  Associates,  Lan- 
caster, Pa....  ROSS  A.  WILLOUGHBYisa 
sales  representative  for  Air  Way  Sales, 
Worcester. 

LAURENCE  P.  VALLEE  has  received 
his  MS  degree  in  civil  engineering  from 
the  University  of  Connecticut.  He  has 
accepted  a  position  with  the  structural  firm 
of  Stone  and  Webster  Engineering  Corp., 
Boston. 

1971 

Married:  ANTHONY  SCHEPIS  to  Miss 
Laura  Candace  Fabrizio  in  Quincy.  Massa- 
chusetts on  May  21,  1972.  Mrs.  Schepis, 
a  graduate  of  Forsyth  Dental  School  and 
Northeastern  University,  is  employed  as  a 
dental  assistant.  Her  husband  is  an 
industrial  engineer  at  Sealy  Mattress  Co., 
Randolph,  Mass. 

Married:  DAVID  P.  BUELOW  and 
Miss  Helen  M.  Laptewicz  on  June  10, 
1972  in  Westboro,  Massachusetts.  Mrs. 
Buelow  is  a  graduate  of  Salter  Secretarial 
School,  Worcester.  David  is  with  the  U.S. 
Army  Corps  of  Engineers  in  Waltham.  .  .  . 


STEVEN  G.  EMERY  to  Miss  Mary  Evelyr. 
Jackman  July  15,  1972  in  New  Haven, 
Connecticut.  The  bride  is  a  registerec 
nurse  with  the  Visiting  Nurse  Association 
of  Worcester.  The  groom  is  in  the  cardiology, 
department    at     St.     Vincent's     Hospital-. 

Worcester ROBERT  P.  HART  and  Miss 

Elizabeth  T.  Cushwa  on  July  8  in  South. 
Hadley,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Hart  is  a 
graduate  of  Framingham  State  College. 
Her  husband  is  a  design  engineer  at  Norden 
Company,  Norwalk,  Conn. 

Married:  DOUGLAS  E.  HOLMES  to; 
Miss  Christine  F.  Holda  on  June  24,  1972 
in  Worcester,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Holmes 
is  a  kindergarten  teacher.  The  groom  is  a 
graduate  student  in  the  material  sciences 
division  of  the  University  of  Connecticut, 
Storrs.  .  .  .  JEFFREY  P.  LASSEY  and  Miss. 
Lynne  K.  Maniero  on  June  25,  1972  in 
Worcester.  The  bride,  a  graduate  of 
Worcester  State  College,  is  a  teacher.  Her 
husband  is  with  New  England  Electrical 
Co.,  Weymouth,  Mass.  .  .  .  EDWARD  C. 
LOWE,  III  to  Miss  Judith  S.  Cogswell  on 
July  8,  1972  in  Longmeadow,  Massachu- 
setts. Mrs.  Lowe  is  a  French  teacher.  The 
bridegroom  is  a  sales  engineer  employed 
by  General  Electric  of  Schenectady,  N.Y. 
.  .  .  2/LT.  PETER  J.  MARKUNAS  and 
Miss  Victoria  R.  Chicoine  on  May  1 3,  1 972 
in  Leicester,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Markunas 
is  a  graduate  of  Ward  Business  School 
Her  husband  is  a  candidate  for  his  master's 
degree  in  mechanical  engineering  at  WPI. 
.  .  .  SPAFFORD  A.  MARTINDALE,  JR 
and  Miss  Betteanne  Mitchell  in  Worcester, 
Massachusetts.  The  bride  is  an  alumna  of 
Anna  Maria  College. 

Married:  VINCENT  T.  PACE  and  Miss 
Maryann  Bagdis  on  June  10,  1972  in 
Grafton,  Massachusetts.  DONALD  TAN- 
ANA  and  FRANK  STEINER  were  ushers. 
Maryann,  a  former  WPI  student,  is  a 
senior  at  Drexel  Institute  of  Technology 
in  Philadelphia.  Her  husband  is  an  elec- 
trical engineer  at  Philadelphia  Electric  Co. 
.  .  .  RICHARD  B.  HOPEWELL  to  Miss 
Claudia  Louise  Secrist  July  1,  1972  in 
Needham,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Hopewell 
is  a  music  education  teacher.  The  bride- 
groom is  doing  graduate  work  at  WPI.  .  .  . 
NORMAN  W.  SOUSA,  JR.,  to  Miss 
Barbara  K.  Phillips  on  July  1,  1972  in 
Pearl  River,  N.Y.  EDWARD  J.  SHERMAN 
was  best  man.  The  bride  is  a  Becker 
Junior  College  graduate.  Her  husband  is 
with  the  Sousa  Corp.,  West  Hartford, 
Conn.  .  .  .  PAUL  R.  SWENSON  and  Miss 
Elaine  M.  Zoppo  on  June  24,  1972  in 
Paxton,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Swenson,  a 
graduate  of  Becker  Junior  College,  is  a 
senior  at  The  Memorial  Hospital  School  of 
Nursing.  The  bridegroom  is  a  field  engineer 
for  Granger  Contracting  Co.,  Worcester. 

Married:  JOHN  ANDERSON  and  Miss 
Josephine  Vanni  in  April  in  Ho-Ho-Kus, 
New  Jersey.  Mrs.  Vanni  is  a  graduate  of 
Newton  College  of  the  Sacred  Heart,  New- 
ton, Mass.  Her  husband  is  with  Public 
Service  Electric  and  Gas  Co.,  Newark,  N.J. 
EDWARD  "NED"  CUNNINGHAM  was 
best  man.  Ushers  were  GARY  MASON, 
PAUL  RUSSO.  and  ROBERT  KELLEY. 


THE  WPI  JOURN/>f 


CHIA-SOON  KU  is  a  graduate  student 
in  the  Department  of  Chemical  Engineering, 
Pennsylvania  State  University,  University 
Park,  Pa.  .  .  .  ALAN  SHAPIRO,  who  is 
currently  home  on  leave  from  his  duties 
with  the  Peace  Corps  in  Ecuador,  expects 
to  return  soon  to  finish  out  his  two-year 
enlistment.  Recently  a  full  page  of  photos 
he  took  in  that  South  American  country 
was  published  in  the  Transcript,  North 
Adams,  Mass. 

PAUL  B.  ASH  has  earned  his  master  of 
arts  degree  in  teaching,  with  an  education 
major,  from  the  University  of  Massachusetts 
at  Amherst.  .  .  .  THOMAS  R.  BALL  is  em- 
ployed by  Astra  Pharmaceutical  Products, 
Inc.,  Worcester,  in  the  area  of  data  com- 
puter-research and  development.  .  .  . 
MICHAEL  J.  GRADY  is  a  software  systems 
engineer  at  Honeywell  Information  Sys- 
tems, Inc.,  Cambridge,  Mass.  .  .  .  UM- 
BERTO  MILANO  is  with  the  U.S.  Bureau 

of  Reclamation,  Denver,  Colo MARTYN 

H.  STRONG  has  received  his  master  of 
engineering  in  electric  power  engineering 
at  RPI,  Troy,  N.Y.  He  is  returning  to  RPI 
this  year  to  study  for  his  master's  degree  in 
environmental  engineering.  .  .  .  JAMES  E. 
TROUTMAN,  JR.  is  currently  a  computer 
instructor  at  Lowry  AFB,  Colo. 


1972 

Married:  GARY  A.  FOOTE  and  Miss 
Catherine  E.  Bogard  on  May  27,  1972  in 
Worcester,  Massachusetts.  The  bride  is  a 
jgraduate  of  the  University  of  Connecticut. 
.  .  .  MICHAEL  W.  THAYER  to  Miss  Cyn- 
thia Ellen  Roff  last  spring.  Mrs.  Thayer 
^graduated  from  Wheaton  College.  .  .  . 
PETER  A.  BERTASI  and  Miss  Janet  A. 
Juzwinski  in  New  Britain,  Connecticut  on 
June  17,  1972.  The  bride  has  been  study- 
ng  for  her  BS  degree  in  education  at 
Central  Connecticut  State  College.  The 
aridegroom  is  a  graduate  student  in  busi- 
ness administration  at  the  University  of 
Rochester,  N.Y.  .  .  .  DOUGLAS  E.  BEST  to 
Vliss  Claudia  J.  Taylor  in  East  Long- 
neadow,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Best  at- 
ended  Salem  State  College  and  graduated 
i  rom  Chandler  School  for  Women,  Boston. 
Her  husband  is  employed  by  Heald  Corp., 
A/orcester. 

Married:  CHARLES  J.  BRINE  and  Miss 
Datricia  Ann  Rimo  on  June  3, 1  972  in  New 
Brunswick,  N.J.  The  bride  is  an  alumna  of 
Douglass  College  in  New  Brunswick.  Both 
;he  and  her  husband  plan  to  attend  gradu- 
ite  school.  The  groom  expects  to  enter  the 
College  of  Marine  Studies  (Chemical 
Dceanography)  at  the  University  of 
Delaware  where  he  will  enroll  in  the  PhD 
>rogram.  .  .  .  MARK  C.  DUPUIS  and  Miss 
Caren  F.  Fitzgibbon  in  Lunenburg,  Massa- 
chusetts. Mrs.  Dupuis  graduated  from 
:itchburg  State  College.  The  groom  is  in 
iroduction  management  at  Procter  and 
5amble  in  Quincy,  Mass.  .  .  .  LOUIS  A. 
:ERRARESI,  JR.,  to  Miss  Susan  Ann 
lones  on  June  18,  1972  in  Worcester, 
/lassachusetts.  Mrs.  Ferraresi  graduated 
■om  Emmanuel  College,  Boston.  Her 
usband  is  a  controls-systems  engineer  for 


manufacturers  of 

Double-Seal  Ball  Valves 

Wafer-Sphere  Butterfly  Valves 

JFC  Control  Valves 

Jamesbury  Corp.  •  640  Lincoln  Street  •  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 


Stone     &     Webster     Engineering     Corp., 

Boston GEORGE  A.  OLIVER  and  Miss 

Barbara  Frances  Davis  on  June  10,  1972 
in  Bedford,  Massachusetts.  The  bride  is 
a  graduate  of  Westfield  State  College.  The 
bridegroom  is  attending  California  Insti- 
tuteof  Technology,  Pasadena. . . .  DONALD 
J.  POLONIS  and  Miss  Patricia  Ann 
Theresa  Yarusawych  in  Easthampton, 
Massachusetts  on  June  10,  1972.  The 
bridegroom  has  accepted  a  teaching  fellow- 
ship at  Union  College,  Schenectady,  N.Y., 
where  he  is  working  for  his  master's  degree 
in  operations  research  in  the  School  of 
Industrial  Administration.  .  .  .  MARCELLO 
A.  RANALLI  to  Miss  Diane  Rose  Bianco 
on  June  10,  1972  in  Worcester.  Mrs. 
Ranalli  is  a  casualty  rater  at  Travelers 
Insurance  Co. 

JOSEPH  BIANCA  is  working  for  Com- 
bustion Engineering,  Windsor,  Conn.  He  is 
a  research  and  product  development  engi- 
neer in  the  company's  Kreisinger  Develop- 
ment Laboratory.  .  .  .  ROBERT  A.  COLP  is 
a  graduate  student  at  the  University  of 
Wisconsin,  Madison.  .  .  .  Currently  DR. 
RAYMOND  M.  FISH  is  employed  by  the 
National  Institute  of  Health  in  Bethesda, 

Md ANDREW  J.  GLAZIER  is  with  the 

U.S.  Army  Corps  of  Engineers.  . .  .  ROBERT 
L.  LYONS  is  with  the  field  service  support 
group   at    Leeds    &    Northrup    Co.,    North 

Wales,  Pa FRANK  D.  McMAHON  has 

employment  as  a  sales  trainee  for  W.  R. 
Grace,  Pontiac,  Mich.  .  .  .  ROBERT  I. 
PARRY  has  accepted  a  position  with  the 
Philadelphia  Electric  Company. 

ROBERT  M.  PASUCCI  is  a  transporta- 
tion planner  at  Raymond,  Parish,  &  Pine, 

White  Plains,  N.Y JEFFREY  A.  PETRY 

is  with  the  Torrington  Company,  Torring- 
ton,  Conn.  .  .  .  GARY  E.  RAND  serves  as 
an  associate  engineer  at  Raytheon  Co., 
Wayland,  Mass.  .  .  .  W.  J.  Megon  &  Co., 
Naugatuck,  Conn.,  employs  EDWARD  D. 
SCHRULL  as  assistant  project  manager. 
.  .  .  WALTER  J.  SMITH  was  commissioned 
an  ensign  in  the  U.S.  Navy  Reserve  in 
September.  He  has  been  at  the  Naval 
Officer  Training   Center  in   Newport,   R.I. 


.  .  .  KENNETH  R.  WADLAND  is  a  graduate 
assistant  in  the  math  department  at  the 
University  of  New  Hampshire. 

ROBERT  M.  BYRNE  has  employment 
at  The  Gazebo,  Torrington,  Conn.  He  is  also 
president  of  the  Torrington  Men's  Choral 
Club.  .  .  .  ROBERT  S.  AMES  plans  to  do 
graduate  work  in  mathematics  at  Syracuse 
University  this  fall. .  . .  GLENN  E.  CABANA 
has  been  employed  by  Western  Electric, 
North  Andover,  Mass.  .  .  .  DOUGLAS  B. 
HARRINGTON  is  a  technical  marketing 
program   trainee   at  the    General    Electric 

Company IOHN  D.  KALETSKI  holds 

the  position  of  manager  at  Clairol,  Stam- 
ford, Conn.  .  .  .  WALTER  R.  MclLVEEN 
serves  as  a  designer  for  Walter  Mcllveen 
Associates,  Avon,  Conn.  .  .  .  JOHN  C. 
MOORE  is  a  field  service  engineer  for  the 
power  division  of  Westinghouse,  Minne- 
apolis, Minn.  .  .  .  Uniroyal  Chemical  Divi- 
sion, Naugatuck,  Conn. .employs  THOMAS 
A.  REYNOLDS  as  a  process  engineer.  .  .  . 
MARK  F.  SAMEK  is  a  graduate  student  at 
WPI.  .  .  .  LESLEY  E.  SMALL  has  employ- 
ment as  a  staff  engineer  for  the  Southern 
New  England  Telephone  Co.,  New  Haven, 
Conn.  .  .  .  THOMAS  J.  TRACY  is  with 
Stone  &  Webster,  Boston,  Mass.  .  .  .  LT. 
STEPHEN  A.  WILKINSON  expects  to  be 
assigned  to  Ft.  Bragg,  N.C.  .  .  .  WALTER 
L.  BALLARD  recently  joined  Eastman 
Kodak  Company,  Rochester,  N.Y.  and  has 
been  assigned  as  a  development  engineer 
with  the  Apparatus  Division.  .  .  .  JOHN  G. 
CROFT,  JR.,  SIM,  is  assistant  purchasing 
manager,  Wyman-Gordon,  Worcester.  .  .  . 
HENRY  E.  HIRVI,  SIM,  is  a  project  leader 
at  Cincinnati  Milacron-Heald  Corp., 
Worcester.  .  .  .  GUS  L.  SANNICANDRO, 
SIM,  serves  as  engineering  design  super- 
visor for  Fenwal,  Inc.,  Ashland,  Mass. 

HOWARD  H.  LEVINE  is  in  the  depart- 
ment of  physics  at  the  University  of 
Illinois.  .  .  .  JEFFREY  ASKANAZI  is  a 
medical  student  at  Upstate  (N.Y.)  Medical 
Center.   .   .   .    RICHARD   J.  WALLACE   is 

studying  at  WPI KURT  M.  WUSTER- 

BARTH  has  accepted  employment  at  the 
Goodyear  Tire  &  Rubber  Co. 


■  WPI  JOURNAL 


47 


Chairs 

Aren't  Always  to  Sit  In 

.  .  .  but  we  have  some 
of  those,  too! 


The  Tech  Chair 

carefully  made  from  selected  hardwoods,  with  the 
WPI  seal  applied  by  hand. 

Send  your  order,  and  make  checks  payable  to,  WPI 
Bookstore,  Daniels  Hall,  Worcester,  Mass.  01609. 
Massachusetts  residents  must  add  3%  sales  tax. 

Prices  are  F.O.B.  Gardner,  Mass.  Chairs  are  shipped 
express  collect. 


II 


tin 


WPI  Side  Chair  $29.00  (No.  341 -214) 

WPI  Arm  Chair  (black  arms)  $45.00  (No.  342-214)  | 

WPI  Arm  Chair  (cherry  arms)  $46.00  (No.  342-218) 

WPI  Boston  Rocker  $37.00  (No.  183-214) 


Tradition  Takes  a  Step 
into  Time  I 

with  the  WPI  "Traditional"  Clock 


Custom  designed,  hand  crafted  and  hand 
screened,  this  beautiful  wall  clock  has  a  battery- 
operated  movement  (takes  one  size  D  battery). 
Size  is  20  inches  high,  11  inches  wide,  and  2V* 
inches  deep.  $37.95  delivered  anywhere  within 
the  continental  United  States. 

Send  your  order,  and  make  checks  payable  to, 
WPI  Bookstore,  Daniels  Hall,  Worcester,  Mass. 
01609.  Massachusetts  residents  must  add  3% 
sales  tax. 


THE  WPI  JOURN 


ALUMNI  ASSOCIATION  RECOGNITION 


he  Robert  H.  Goddard  Award 

presented  annually  for  outstanding  professional 
;hievement  and  is  named  in  honor  of 
obert  H.  Goddard,  '08,  father  of  the  rocket, 
ecipients  this  year  were  Howard  G.  Freeman,  '40; 
lay  W.  Heffernan,  '19;  and  Robert  H.  Grant,  '42 
not  pictured).  The  awards  were  presented  by 
Hilton  P.  Higgins,  chairman  of  the  WPI  Board 
I  Trustees. 


Howard  G.  Freeman,  '40 


Ray  W.  Heffernan,  '19 


he  Herbert  F.  Taylor  Award 

i  presented  annually  to  alumni  for  distinguished 
jrvice  to  their  alma  mater.  The  award  is  named 
i  honor  of  Herbert  Foster  Taylor,  '12,  first  full-time 
■cretary-treasurer  of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association. 
Iscipients  of  the  Taylor  Award  in  June  were 
'  ayne  E.  Keith,  '22,  and  Dr.  William  E.  Hanson, 
12.  The  awards  were  presented  by  Irving  James 
Ipnahue,  Jr.,  '44,  President  of  the  Alumni 
osociation. 


Dr.  William  E.  Hanson,  '32 


Wayne  E.  Keith,  '22 


At  Reunion  in  June,  Edwin  L 
Sholz,  '22,  presented  a  check  to 
Dr.  George  W.  Hazzard,  president 
of  WPI,  as  the  50th  Reunion  Gift 
of  the  Class  of  1922. 


We  found  the  right  combination 

for  Norton  Borazon  wheels. 

It  opens  up  a  lot  of  possibilities  for  you. 


Now  the  spectacu  la r  g  ri  nd  i  ng 
capabilities  of  Borazon  abrasive 
really  come  into  their  own. . .  in 
Norton  Borazon  wheels.  Norton 
research  engineers  have  unlocked 
the  full  potential  of  thisamazing 
abrasive  with  their  unique  custom- 
tailored  bonds.  Borazon  wheels 
save  more  time  and  money  than 
ever  on  today's  toughest  tool  steel 
grinding  jobs. 


Norton  custom-tailored  bonds 
area  precise  combination  of 
special  additives,  meticulously 
blended  and  processed  to  cope 
with  the  heatgenerated  during 
grinding,  and  minimize  bond 
wear  by  the  material  being 
ground.  The  result?  High,  constant 
cutting  ability  in  a  wheel  that 
keeps  on  cutting. 

In  short,  you  can  do  more 
with  Borazon  when  you  do  it  with 
Norton  Borazon  wheels.  Use  them 


to  put  a  profitable  plus  in  your 
internal  grinding,  tool  sharpening 
and  wet  surface  and  cylindrical 
grinding  jobs. 

Get  the  complete  story  from 
your  nearby  Norton  Distributor. 
Norton  Company,  Grinding 
Wheel  Division,  Worcester, 
Massachusetts  0 1  606. 


NORTON 


GRINDING  MffIS 


oeeefvsBER,  1372 

VOL.  7S,  S^O.  «« 


********* 
********* 

*J*  *  ** 

********* 
********* 

__                ^_______^____ 

Wyman-Gordon  is  the  country's  out- 
standing producer  of  forged  compo- 
nents for  America's  key  industries. 
Wyman-Gordon  has  supplied  forgings 
for  virtually  every  aircraft  in  the  skies 
today,  as  well  as  for  the  Saturn  and 
other  space  boosters.  Equally  important 
is  its  production  of  vital  components 
for  nuclear  and  turbine  power  plants, 
sea  and  undersea  vessels,  trucks,  trac- 
tors and  construction  equipment. 

Research  is  a  hallmark  of  Wyman- 
Gordon;  its  research  and  development 
teams  have  long  been  recognized  as  in- 
dustry leadersinthedevelopmentof  new 
techniques  for  advanced  materials  such 
as  titanium  and  other  space-age  alloys. 


Forging  form  and  function 
into  metal 


WYMAN  -  GORDON 


WORCESTER 

NORTH  GRAFTON      MILLBURY 

Midwest  Division:  Harvey,  Illinois 

Subsidiaries 

REISNER  METALS,  INC. 

South  Gate.  California 

ROLLMET,  INC. 

Santa  Ana,  California 

WYMAN-GORDON  INDIA,  LTD. 

Bombay,  India 

Sales  Offices  Worldwide 


■mm  ■ 

journal 


Vol.  76,  no.  4 
December,  1  972 


Editor 

H.  Russell  Kay 

Alumni  Information  Editor 

Ruth  A.  Trask 

Publications  Committee 

Walter  B.  Dennen,  Jr.,  '51,  Chairman 

Donald  F.  Berth,  '57 

Robert  C.  Gosling,  '68 

Enfried  T.  Larson,  '22 

Rev.  Edward  I.  Swanson,  '45 

Richard  DeChard,  '56 

Published  for  the  Alumni  Association 
by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 

Copyright©  1972  by 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 
All  rights  reserved. 


WPI   Alumni  Association   Officers 

President: 

I.  J.  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44 

Vice  Presidents: 

B.  E.  Hosmer,  '61 
W.  J.  Bank,  '46 

Secretary-  Treasurer: 
S.  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President: 
R.  E.  Higgs, '40 

Executive  Committee, 
Members -at- Large: 

C.  C.  Bonin,  '38;  F.  S.  Harvey,  '37; 
C.  W.  Backstrom,  '30;  L.  Polizzotto,  '70 

Fund  Board: 

G.  F.  Crowther,  '37;  R.  F.  Burke,  Jr., 
'38;  L.  A.  Penoncello,  '66;  W.  J. 
Charow,  '49;  H.  I.  Nelson,  '54 


The  WPI  Journal  is  published  six  times  a  year 
in  August,  September,  October,  December, 
February,  April.  Second  class  postage  paid  at 
Worcester,  Massachusetts.  Postmaster:  Please 
send  form  3579  to  Alumni  Association, 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute.  Worcester, 
Mass.  01609. 


IN  THIS  ISSUE 

"Oh,  to  be  in  England  Now  that  April  (or  August  or 

January)'s  there" page  two 

A  look  at  the  year-old  exchange  program  between  WPI  and  the  City  University  of  London 
through  the  eyes  of  the  students  involved. 

A  Story:  DeVilleroy  at  the  Drawbridge;  Orr, 

Watt's  in  Your  Name? page  fourteen 

An  anonymous  fable  concocted  out  of  whole  cloth  and  some  of  the  more  colorful, 
double-entendre  names  of  WPI  alumni. 

The  Hill  page  sixteen 

Homecoming page  eighteen 

Keeping  Up  with  the  Patels         page  twenty-seven 


DEPARTMENTS 

Completed  Careers 20 

Your  Class  and  Others 22 

Feedback 32 


EDITOR'S  NOTE 

We've  got  a  treat  in  store  for  you  coming  in  February:  a  cover 
dramatically  different  from  anything  the  Journal  has  had  before, 
and  a  redesigned  layout  inside,  all  intended  to  make  the  magazine 
more  readable  and  visually  more  appealing. 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


By  Ruth  Trask 


HE  BRITISH  ARE  COMING!  The  British  are 
coming!  In  fact,  some  of  them  have  already  landed  and 
established  a  beachhead  at  Stoddard  Residence.  But  all  is 
not  lost.  A  doughty  band  of  WPI  students  has  taken  over  a 
portion  of  the  campus  at  the  City  University  of  London 
without  even  firing  a  shot! 

These  friendly  invasions  were  brought  about  through 
the  recent  implementation  of  the  student  exchange  pro- 
gram at  WPI.  Started  just  last  spring,  the  program  has 
already  proved  to  be  a  remarkable  success. 

"WPI  students  participating  in  the  plan  couldn't  be 
more  enthusiastic,  especially  about  the  project  work  in 
London,"  says  William  R.  Grogan,  '46,  Dean  of  Under- 
graduate Studies.  "And  the  English  students  have  been 
outstanding.  All  of  the  first  group  that  came  to  WPI  earned 
honor  grades.  Three  of  them  remained  in  the  United  States 
during  the  summer  to  work  on  student  projects  involving 
environmental  pollution  problems  and  the  Urban  Car.  They 
really  got  involved." 

"All  students  whether  studying  under  WPI  Plan  degree 
requirements  or  not  are  encouraged  to  participate.  The  only 
extra  cost  is  the  Boston  to  London  student  air  fare," 
Grogan  continued. 

At  present  there  are  five  more  English  students  spend- 
ing a  term  at  WPI.  Although  they  have  been  here  only  a  few 
months,  they  have  plenty  to  say  about  WPI,  their  own 
univeristy,  and  the  American  way  of  life. 

Three  WPI  students,  recently  returned  from  England, 
answer  in  kind  about  City  University,  WPI,  and  the  British 
way  of  life. 

Some  of  their  remarks  may  sound  irreverent  or  mind 
boggling,  but  they  are  honest. 

Here  are  the  observations  of  eight  who  made  the  grc.n 
exchange. 


CERTAINLY  WOULDN'T  MIND  working  in  the 
USA,"  declares  George  Conabeer,  who  has  become  quite 
tuned  in  to  the  American  scene  after  spending  nearly  four 
months  on  the  hill. 

Conabeer,  a  born  adventurer,  is  partial  to  high-heeled 
boots  and  Indian  headbands.  At  17  he  dropped  out  of 
Hayes  Grammar  School  in  Middlesex  determined  to  "go  out 
into  the  real  world  of  industry." 

"I  was  sick  of  education  for  the  sake  of  education,"  he 
says.  "As  much  as  they  tried  they  couldn't  persuade  me  to 
stay  on  in  school  until  I  reached  18." 

George  became  employed  by  British  Overseas  Airways 
Corporation  (BOAC)  as  an  aircraft  electrical  engineering 
apprentice.  After  three  years  the  company  sent  him  to  City 
University  to  study  air-transport  engineering  under  the 
work-study  program.  At  present  he  is  working  toward  his 
Bachelor  of  Science-Honors  Degree,  a  five-year  course. 

Being  enrolled  at  a  university  has  not  diminished  his 
love  of  adventure  and  travel.  Last  December  he  "surprised" 
one  of  his  older  married  brothers  in  Sydney,  Australia,  by 
dropping  in  on  him  unexpectedly  over  the  Christmas 
holidays.  Adding  frosting  to  the  cake,  he  then  flew  off  to 
Singapore  in  time  to  spend  New  Year's  with  his  other 
brother  who  was  serving  there  with  the  Australian  Army. 

"1  hope  to  get  a  job  which  entails  travel,  cither  as  an 
engineering  representative,  flight  engineer,  or  overseas  base 
engineer,"  he  says. 

At  22  Conabeer  has  already  flown  to  places  many  of  us 
can  only  dream  about.  It  is  a  safe  bet  that  he'll  visit  a  lot 
more  far-away  places  in  Ins  lifetime. 

"What  1  really  want  to  he  is  the  chairman  of  BOAC.  II 
you  .um  high  and  fall  short  you  are  m ill  doing  well,"  he 
philosophized, 

THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Right  now  he  says  he  is  getting  a  lot  out  of  his 
experience  at  WPI.  He  admits  that  it  is  quite  a  change  from 
City. 

"Pressurized,"  was  his  description  of  WPI  after  he  was 
introduced  to  the  work  load  doled  out  by  the  professors. 
"City  University  is  tougher  regarding  the  content  of  the 
courses,  but  WPI  has  by  far  the  greater  bulk  of  work,"  he 
explains.  "But  it  doesn't  concern  me  too  much  as  we're  in 
America  for  only  one  term.  We  can  make  time  for  other 
things." 

How  does  he  rank  the  administrative  staff  and  the 
professors  of  the  two  schools? 

"Competence  is  equally  high  when  it  comes  to  evalu- 
ating the  staff  and  the  professors,"  he  continued.  "Both  are 
reasonably  informal.  However,"  he  hesitated,  "the  profes- 
sors in  England  are  not  as  friendly  as  they  are  here." 

Generally  he  feels  that  the  texts  used  are  comparable 
while  WPI  facilities  are  "slightly  better." 

When  asked  about  Gordon  Library,  he  replied,  "Oh,  it 
is  much  better  equipped  than  ours,  with  its  music  room  and 
tapes  and  everything." 

On  the  other  hand,  he  thinks  that  the  laboratories  are 
superior  at  his  English  university. 


George  Conabeer 
And  the  dormitories?  "At  City  we  all  have  single 
rooms,"  he  said.  "The  conditions  are  approximately  the 
same  in  both  places,  although  Stoddard  is  especially  nice. 
Actually,"  he  went  on,  "WPI  reminds  me  of  City  in  a 
number  of  ways.  Especially  in  one  respect." 


What  was  that? 

"The  number  of  girls  on  campus.  At  City  we  also  have 
only  a  few.  Not  enough  girls  on  either  side  of  the  Atlantic!" 

Then  he  prefers  a  co-ed  campus? 

"Yes,  yes,  yes,"  came  the  prompt  reply.  "U.S.  girls  are 
so  much  less  inhibited  than  English  girls,"  he  added, 
grinning. 

He  admitted  that  he  had  made  many  good  friends 
among  WPI  students.  There  was  something  about  the 
Americans  that  troubled  him,  though.  "They  take  sports  far 
too  seriously,"  he  remarked.  "Sports  are  much  more  fun  at 
home." 

By  sports  George  means  "beer  drinking,  girls,  and 
gliding.  In  that  order.  As  a  matter  of  fact,"  he  says,  "one  of 
the  other  exchange  students,  Nabil  Hamadeh,  is  a  drinking 
companion  of  mine." 

When  discussing  part-time  job  opportunities  over  here 
and  over  there  he  said,  "All  of  the  English  students  receive 
either  a  government  grant  or  a  salary  from  a  company  while 
they  are  enrolled  at  a  college  or  university.  At  City 
part-time  jobs  for  students  are  very  rare.  At  WPI  they  are 
good.  Off-campus  jobs  are  similar,  while  American  wages 
are  higher." 

How  was  he  taking  to  the  American  way  of  life?  "I'm 
enjoying  social  life  a  lot  more  here,"  he  admits. 

Perhaps  one  of  the  reasons  he  is  enjoying  himself  is  that 
he  is  favorably  impressed  with  Worcester.  He  says  that  it  is 
a  pleasant  change  from  central  London. 

American  food  he  is  not  terribly  impressed  with.  Of 
campus  food  he  says,  "When  it's  good,  it's  great,  but  when 
it's  bad  —  eck!" 

Off-campus  vittles  fare  somewhat  better,  especially 
those  from  the  fast  food  emporiums.  He  describes  those 
three-minute  delicacies  as  "appetizing,  different,  plentiful" 
and  admits  to  being  particularly  fond  of  grinders. 

American  TV?  "Too  many  commericals." 

Drugs?  "More  of  a  problem  on  American  campuses." 

Election?  "Carnival." 

George  Conabeer  is  doing  very  well  right  now  as  an 
exchange  student  at  WPI.  He  says  the  program  "has 
exceeded  my  expectations:  social  life  good;  people  friendly 
and  hospitable;  courses  very  good;  beer  palatable;  and  girls 
amiable." 

He's  even  been  trying  to  persuade  some  of  his  new 
American  friends  to  attend  City  University  for  a  term. 

Perhaps,  then,  because  of  his  progress  and  enthusiasm, 
he  can  be  forgiven  for  characterizing  WPI  as  pressurized. 
Particularly  since  he  classified  the  typical  English  college  as 
pre-ordained! 


OR  EIGHTEEN  YEARS  I  have  lived  in  a  village  on 
the  Wirral  peninsula  near  Liverpool  in  Cheshire,"  says 
20-year-old  Paul  Sparkes.  "Our  family  consists  of  my 
mother,  father  (a  master  mariner),  an  older  sister,  and,  of 
course,  myself." 


E  WPI  JOURNAL 


i 


[IJLHtJJ 


yW?*--." 


v 


we 


$ks£" 


••%'• 


w& 


:^**lK 


From  left,  George  Conabeer,  Paul  Sparkes,  John  Bertrand,  Nabil 
Hamadeh,  Derek  Lawrence 


Sparkes  attended  primary  school  until  he  was  eleven. 
Then  he  went  on  to  grammar  school  where  he  took 
ordinary  and  advanced  level  exams.  Three  years  ago  he 
moved  south  to  London  where  he  entered  the  City 
University  to  take  an  honors  degree  in  air-transport 
engineering. 

The  course  that  he  is  presently  taking  is  alternated  with 
periods  of  industrial  training  at  British  European  Airways, 
the  company  which  is  sponsoring  part  of  his  education. 

To  Paul  Sparkes,  WPI  appears  to  be  optimistic. 

He  thoroughly  agrees  with  George  Conabeer  about  the 
first-rate  quality  of  Gordon  Library.  He  calls  it  incredible. 

"At  City,  library  facilities  are  bare  at  best;  but  the  labs 
there  are  exceptionally  good." 

So  far  he  has  been  well  pleased  with  the  exchange 
program,  even  though  he  has  sensed  a  difference  in  the 
approach  to  education.  "The  systems  differ  greatly.  The 
American  professors  specify  more  work  to  be  done,  while 
the  English  professors  expect  the  work  to  be  done  without 
stating  it." 

He  describes  the  WPI  campus  as  "very  handsome  and 
somewhat  reminiscent  of  City.  But  it  is  the  people  who 
make  a  college  different,"  he  explained. 

People  such  as  girls?  he  was  asked.  Well,  he  did  like  a 
campus  where  there  were  girls.  "To  be  honest,  the 
American  girls  have  so  impressed  me  by  their  approach  I 
have  forgotten  what  English  girls  arc  like.  I  find  American 
girls  incredible,"  he  chuckled. 


His  comment  on  the  drug  problem  was,  "Americans 
don't  seem  to  care." 

Unlike  Conabeer,  with  whom  he  shares  an  apartment  in 
London,  he  finds  Worcester  and  the  surrounding  towns 
"not  too  attractive."  But  he  did  agree  that  the  off-campus 
eateries  did  have  better  food  and  much  better  service  than 
could  be  found  on  campus. 

Sparkes,  who  flies  as  a  hobby  and  dreams  of  becoming  a 
commercial  pilot,  apparently  has  discovered  that  WPI  can 
be  both  fun  and  academically  stimulating. 

"At  City,"  he  says,  "the  atmosphere  is  much  more 
restful." 

He  didn't  sound  one  bit  disappointed  that  somehow, 
WPI  had  been  different. 


£M 


'Y  FAMILY  was  a  little  worried  about  my 
coming  here,"  says  Derek  Lawrence.  "This  probably  Stems 
from  the  violent  image  American  life  has  in  England. 
However,  they  realized  that  it  was  probably  the  chance  <>t  a 
lifetime  and  for  this  reason  they  were  very  pleased  when  I 
was  selected  for  the  exchange  program,  My  friends  at  lirst 
thought  I  was  stupid,  but  when  they  realized  I  was  really 
coming  here.  1  began  to  nonce  some  envy." 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL    , 


Lawrence,  one  of  a  family  of  four  children,  is  the  only 
exchange  student  presently  on  campus  who  was  born  and 
raised  in  London.  His  father  is  employed  as  a  draughtsman 
in  the  electricity  supply  industry  and  his  mother  works  as  a 
shorthand-typist  in  a  school. 

He  went  directly  from  grammar  school  to  the  City 
University  to  study  electrical  and  electronic  engineering  on 
an  integrated  four-and-one-half-year  work-study  course.  His 
sponsor  is  British  Insulated  Callenders  Cables,  Ltd.  (BICC), 
a  company  which  makes  cables  and  associated  equipment. 
It  is  a  large  firm  employing  some  60,000  persons  in  Great 
Britain.  It  is  connected  with  the  General  Cable  Corp.  of 
America  and  owns  Phillips  Cables  of  Canada. 

The  21 -year-old  junior  says  that  he  first  heard  about  the 
exchange  program  through  an  advertisement  in  Newcity, 
which  is  the  City  University  equivalent  of  the  Tech  News. 
"I'm  glad  I  followed  up  on  that  advertisement,"  he 
admits.  "The  program  has  been  much  better  than  I  thought 
it  would  be.  The  big  surprise  to  me  has  been  the  friendliness 
of  everybody  we  have  met." 

After  several  months  of  study  in  America,  he  has  come 
to  believe  that  WPI  students  have  to  maintain  a  fast  pace 
because  of  the  seven-week  terms.  "At  City,"  he  continued, 
"the  student  gears  himself  to  the  examination  at  the  end  of 
the  semester." 

Would  English  students  spend  their  free  time  in  the 
same  way  as  American  students? 


"As  far  as  movies  go,  yes,"  he  replied.  "Actually,  we  go 
to  the  theater  more  often  because  it  is  cheaper  in  England. 
We  have  fewer  sports  and  do  little  camping  because  the 
weather  is  seldom  good  enough.  All  the  students  can  drink 
at  18,"  he  said,  "so  they  go  to  the  pubs.  Also  there  are 
more  discotheques  at  home,  which  are  popular  haunts,  too. 
Personally  I  enjoy  photography  and  doing  mechanical  work 
on  cars." 

When  queried  about  drugs  he  answered,  "Drugs  are  far 

easier  to  obtain  in  America  and  for  this  reason  more  people 
appear  to  take  safe  drugs.  The  situation  is  similar  in  both 
England  and  America  with  hard  drugs." 

Lawrence  believes  that  American  girls  are  more  out- 
wardly friendly.  "In  England,"  he  says,  "if  a  girl  has  a 
steady  boyfriend,  she  will  not  go  out  with  anybody  else, 
but  here  it  is  not  the  case.  The  American  girls  are  more 
independent.  They  seem  to  respond  faster  to  a  growing 
relationship." 

An  electrical  engineering  major,  Lawrence  hopes  some- 
day to  "find  a  job  that  I  enjoy  which  is  sufficiently 
rewarding  to  enable  me  to  enjoy  life."  He  intends  to  find 
that  job  outside  of  Great  Britain. 

He  appears  already  to  be  enjoying  his  visit  to  WPI.  In 
fact,  he  says,  "I  have  had  a  really  great  time  here  so  far  and 
I  wouldn't  think  twice  about  coming  back.  I  shall  certainly 
recommend  the  exchange  program  to  all  my  friends  at  City 
University." 


If 
Derek  Lawrence 


EOPLE  HERE  seem  to  enjoy  work  more,"  com- 
ments Nabil  Hamadeh,  a  junior  in  air-transport  engineering. 
"And  they  are  quite  mobile.  They  drive  long  distances  for  a 
weekend  or  even  a  day  out." 

After  making  the  second  observation  he  added  almost 
wryly,  "Cars  here  are  not  made  to  last  and  they  don't!"  (A 
thought  which  has  undoubtedly  crossed  most  Americans' 
minds!) 

Hamadeh  moved  to  England  from  Jordan  in  1968.  For 
two  years  he  studied  at  Blackpool  College  of  Technology 
and  Art.  At  Blackpool  he  played  on  the  varsity  basketball 
and  table  tennis  teams. 

Later  he  was  admitted  to  Manchester  University,  where 
he  studied  aeronautical  engineering  for  six  months.  Last 
year  he  transferred  into  the  air-transport  engineering  course 
at  City.  Although  at  Manchester  he  was  taking  the  straight 
three-year  course,  at  City  he  is  now  starting  out  on  the 
work -study  plan  and  is  awaiting  an  industrial  sponsor.  He  is 
not  eligible  for  a  government  grant,  so  he  is  currently 
paying  his  own  way  through  college. 

Hamadeh  is  fully  in  favor  of  the  student  exchange 
program.  But  he  disagrees  with  the  other  London  students 
when  it  comes  to  comparing  the  curriculums  of  City  and 
WPI. 


IE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Nabil  Hamadeh 

"Considering  the  amount  of  free  time  available  at  WP1, 
the  curriculum  is  much  more  rigorous  at  City.  Also,"  he 
continues,  "I'd  rate  the  facilities  here  as  only  good.  At 
home  they  are  very  good  to  excellent.  The  problem  at  WPI 
is  that  there  is  no  student  union  building.  We  have  a  good 
one  on  our  campus." 

All  in  all,  he  does  approve  of  WPI  in  particular  and  the 
Worcester  area  in  general.  "It  reminds  me  of  the  Surrey  area 
in  England,"  he  comments. 

When  comparing  English  and  American  girls,  Hamadeh 
notes:  "English  girls  are  more  formal,  especially  with  dress. 
American  girls  are  more  attractive  than  beautiful.  They 
have  slightly  masculine  features,  which  give  them  a  dif- 
ferent style." 

He  has  discovered  that  diversions  in  the  two  countries 
are  varied.  He  says,  "The  British  spend  more  time  in  the 
pubs.  The  Americans  spend  more  time  on  the  playing  field. 
I  myself  like  to  swim  and  play  soccer,  snooker,  and  tennis.  I 
also  like  to  drink  and  go  out  with  girls." 

Like  the  rest  of  his  fellow  students  from  the  City 
Univeristy,  he  was  interested  in  the  quality  of  beer  in  both 
countries.  While  the  majority  thought  that  American  beer 
was  palatable,  they  agreed  that  in  England  there  was  much 
more  variety  available. 

In  spite  of  this  "shortcoming,"  Nabil  Hamadeh  has 
found  the  exchange  program  "quite  impressive.  The  aca- 
demic and  social  life  have  been  outstanding  and  I  wouldn't 
hesitate  to  recommend  the  Plan  to  anyone." 


'HEN  John  Bertrand,  22,  announced  to  his 
family  and  friends  that  he  was  going  to  America,  they  were 
aghast. 

"We  think  you  have  courage,  but  what  about  your 
sanity?"  they  inquired. 

Undoubtedly  Bertrand  recalled  those  remarks  when, 
finally  in  America,  he  caught  sight  of  his  first  armed 
policeman.  (In  England  they  go  unarmed.)  But  he  stayed 
anyway,  and  he  has  not  been  disappointed. 

This  natty  dresser  from  Northampton  says  that  he  was 
"a  standard  English  kid."  At  16  he  received  his  general 
certificate  of  education  —  ordinary  level  and  at  18  he 
passed  the  advanced  level. 

At  City  he  is  taking  a  five-year  "thin  sandwich  course" 
which  includes  six  months  of  academic  work  alternating 
with  six  months  of  study  which  will  ultimately  lead  to  a  BS 
in  civil  engineering. 

During  his  industrial  period  he  works  for  a  contracting 
civil  engineering  firm.  The  company  pays  him  during  the 
work  portion  of  the  program.  During  the  academic  term  at 
City  his  expenses  are  paid  by  an  outright  government  grant, 
which,  he  is  happy  to  say,  does  not  ever  have  to  be  repaid. 

His  industrial  periods  have  taken  him  to  Coventry, 
Nottingham,  Cambridge,  and  to  his  own  home  town  of 
Northampton.  He  has  worked  on  reservoir,  subway,  sewer- 
age, and  large  water  tank  projects. 

Bertrand  considers  that  the  exchange  program  and  WPI 
have  been  very  good  experiences.  "The  program  has  made 
me  realize  the  differences  in  our  educational  systems,"  he 
says.  "Because  of  the  volume  of  knowledge  that  has  to  be 


John  Bertrand 


lorthampton  Hall,  City  University  of  London 


■IE  WPI  JOURNAL 


£ 


%$&.  t. 


covered  in  seven  weeks,  WPI  has  the  harder  curriculum,"  he 
continues.  "On  the  other  hand,  City  University  work  is 
more  difficult  in  terms  of  in-depth  consideration." 

He  agrees  with  his  countrymen  that  the  lack  of  a 
student  union  at  WPI  is  a  distinct  disadvantage. 

"At  City  our  student  union  is  excellent.  It  has  a 
bar-lounge  that  seats  250;  a  TV  room;  music  room;  dark- 
room; and  a  snooker,  table  tennis  and  billiard  area.  There  is 
an  art  center  and  student  information  desk.  The  building 
also  houses  the  offices  of  the  student-elected  committees 
that  organize  student  affairs." 

"The  double-room  dormitory  accommodations  at  WPI 
are  very  good,"  he  went  on.  "However,  I  prefer  the  single 
rooms  at  City.  Also  I  like  the  idea  of  having  sheets  and 
blankets  provided  free  like  they  are  at  home.  I  don't  like 
the  limited  visiting  hours  at  the  dorms.  (Nobody  is  allowed 
in  your  room  after  2  a.m.)  And  having  porters  at  the  dorm 
entrances  is  sometimes  good,  sometimes  bad." 

Afterhours,  according  to  Bcrtrand  the  average  Knglish 
student  is  more  likely  CO  be  found  quaffing  a  beer  at  a  pub 
or  competing  at  a  game  of  darts  than  engaging  in  the  rough 
and  tumble  sports  to  which  his  American  counterpart  is 
addicted. 


Across  Northampton  Square,  the  University  Building,  opened  in 
1970 


"We  rarely  engage  in  team  sports,"  he  says.  "It's  too 
difficult.  The  nearest  playing  field  is  five  miles  away  from 
the  campus. 

"All  of  us  enjoy  bird-watching,  though,"  he  smiled. 
"Even  the  WPI  students." 

Birds  like  robins  and  blue  jays?  he  was  asked.  "No.  Like 
blondes  and  brunettes." 

He  admitted  that  he  was  attracted  to  American  girls  but 
felt  there  was  too  much  similarity  in  their  manner  of  dress, 
"English  girls,"  he  explained,  "are  more  conscious  of  their 
clothing  and  themselves.  They  like  their  hair  and  makeup  to 
be  different  from  the  next  girl's." 

Some  of  Bertrand's  passing  remarks  about  the  American 
scene:  "There  is  a  vast  difference  between  English  and 
American  beer.  American  beer  is  like  German  lager  beer, 
less  fattening  than  the  twenty-ounce  servings  of  English 
beer,  which  is  made  from  hops.  -  American  drivers  like  to 
hear  their  tires  squeal.  -  Electrical  goods,  records,  and  jeans 
arc    cheaper    here.  In    America    the    days    seem   longer 

because  everyone  works  and  plays  harder." 

John  Bertrand  doesn't  seem  to  mind  the  length  of 
American  days      or  nights,  lie's  making  the  most  of  them, 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


VERYONE  ELSE  was  as  thrilled  as  I  was  when  I  was 
selected  as  an  exchange  student,"  says  Keith  Corman,  '73, 
one  of  the  first  WPI  participants  in  the  exchange  program. 

Keith,  whose  future  ambition  is  to  be  self-employed  in 
the  field  of  construction  and  development,  is  a  civil  engi- 
neering student  from  Bolton,  Mass. 

How  had  he  heard  of  the  exchange  plan? 

"One  day  a  professor  mentioned  the  program  to  me," 
he  explained.  "It  sounded  interesting  so  I  filled  out  an 
application.  After  being  interviewed  by  a  selection  com- 
mittee and  recommended  by  two  faculty  members,  I  was 
told  that  I  had  been  accepted.  Before  I  knew  it  I  was 
winging  my  way  to  the  City  University  of  London." 

"In  the  beginning  I  didn't  know  what  to  expect,"  he 
said.  "I  wanted  to  do  some  traveling.  I  wanted  to  meet 
people.  I  wanted  to  live  and  study  in  a  different  environ- 
ment. The  exchange  program  let  me  do  all  those  things.  It 
made  me  very  happy." 

Corman  lived  nearly  five  months  in  London.  He  had 
time  to  get  to  know  the  people  around  him,  time  to  get  to 
know  City  University. 

Comparing  City  to  WPI  he  says,  "City  is  apt  to  be  more 
tradition  bound.  WPI  is  more  inventive.  Engineering  sub- 
jects are  difficult  no  matter  where  they  are  taught.  Courses 
at  both  schools  seem  to  be  of  equal  depth.  But  WPI  has  a 
much  more  diverse  curriculum  by  far." 

At  City  he  was  interested  in  the  differences  and  simi- 
larities between  the  two  schools  that  he  noticed  almost 
daily.  One  of  those  differences  concerned  the  faculty. 

The  WPI  professors  are  definitely  better  according  to 
his  judgment.  He  found  the  professors  at  City  were 
reasonable  but  not  exceptional  when  it  came  to  attitude 
and  competence.  Keith  feels  that  they  probably  make 
better  engineers  than  teachers. 


He  has  kinder  words  for  the  English  textbook  system. 
He  says,  "In  general  English  students  are  not  required  to 
purchase  books.  The  instructor  will  usually  recommend 
several  texts  that  may  be  consulted  in  the  library.  These 
books  are  mostly  by  American  authors,  so  they  are  no 
better  or  worse  than  those  used  at  WPI." 

Corman  was  amazed  that  City  University,  which  is 
about  the  same  size  as  WPI,  has  the  capacity  to  house  twice 
as  many  students,  all  in  single  rooms.  "And  they  even 
provide  daily  maid  service  in  the  dorms,"  he  recalls. 

He  was  equally  enthusiastic  about  the  English  student 
union  (described  earlier),  which  seems  to  provide  almost 
every  diversion  any  hard-working  student  could  wish, 
including  daytime  movies  and  four  cafeterias. 

"Compare  that  with  Daniels  Snack  Bar,"  he  comments. 

Was  there  a  difference  in  attitude  between  students  at 
City  and  WPI?  "Particularly  in  the  area  of  student 
government,"  he  remarked.  "City  students  take  student 
government  participation  more  seriously  than  we  do  here," 
he  explained.  "Over  there  student  government  meetings 
draw  nearly  60  per  cent  of  the  student  population.  I  believe 
this  is  because  their  government  is  completely  independent 
from  the  administration.  Their  government  is  an  instrument 
of  the  students  and  not  an  instrument  of  the  administra- 
tion, as  it  is  here." 

Commenting  on  how  the  exchange  program  was  han- 
dled he  said,  "I  did  have  a  wonderful  time  and  I  did  learn  a 
lot,  but  things  could  be  improved." 

He  explained:  "Naturally  the  administrators  of  the 
program  are  interested  in  the  scholastic  angle.  I  believe  this 
should  be  played  down  a  bit.  London  is  a  beautiful  place. 
There  is  plenty  to  do  and  plenty  to  learn  from  just  being 
there.  If  future  exchange  students  have  the  chance  to  travel 
as  I  did  (Scotland,  Germany,  and  Scandinavia)  they  could 
learn  a  lot  more.  It's  a  once-in-a-lifetime  opportunity. 

"I  would  break  down  my  educational  experience  like 
this:  10  per  cent  in  the  classroom  and  90  per  cent  outside. 
Therefore  in  choosing  future  exchange  students,  scholastics 
should  be  a  lesser  factor.  Students  should  be  selected 
according  to  their  sincere  desire  to  go,  no  matter  what  the 
reasons." 


Keith  Corman 


IAMES  SHARON,  a  civil  engineering  major  whose 
career  goal  is  "to  be  a  registered  professional 
engineer  and  enjoy  my  job,"  has  found  that  while  "the  City 
University  is  slow,  WPI  is  difficult." 

Prior  to  entering  WPI  Sharon  attended  Marlborough 
(Mass.)  High  School.  Like  Corman  he  was  a  varsity  athlete, 
earning  letters  in  football,  baseball,  and  basketball. 

His  out-of-school  activities  included  billiards,  reading, 
golfing,  and  a  summer  job  with  the  Marlborough  Forestry 
Department. 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


At  WPI  he  played  baseball  as  a  freshman.  Now  a  senior, 
he  looks  back  on  his  months  in  London  mostly  with 
pleasure.  "The  atmosphere  at  City  was  decidedly  dif- 
ferent," he  says. 

In  spite  of  the  "difficult"  rating  he  gave  WPI,  he 
discovered  that  English  students  at  City  have  their  prob- 
lems, too.  For  example  they  have  very  little  choice  in 
deciding  what  courses  they  are  to  take.  "At  WPI  we  can  at 
least  choose  our  courses  more  freely." 

He  had  a  mixed  reaction  to  the  English  girls,  remarking 
that  "English  girls  aren't  as  pretty  as  American  girls  on  the 
average.  And  they  are  much  harder  to  get  to  know.  But 
once  you  do  get  to  know  them.  .  .  well,  that's  a  different 
story!" 

Sharon  felt  that  he  and  the  other  WPI  students  had 
been  well  received  on  campus  and  that  the  exchange 
program  had  been  beneficial  to  him,  both  academically  and 
otherwise. 

"I  managed  to  get  in  a  considerable  amount  of  traveling 
on  the  side,"  he  says.  "I  went  through  all  of  England, 
Scotland,  Belgium,  and  Holland,  which  was  an  education  in 
itself." 

He  says  he  would  recommend  the  program  to  a  friend 
"if  it  wasn't  an  important  semester  at  WPI.  But  if  he  were 
going  to  England,  there  is  one  thing  I'd  have  to  warn  him 
about." 

What  was  that? 

"The  weather.  It's  rainy." 

English-born  George  Conabeer  was  more  explicit  than 
that.  He  called  it  stinking! 


James  Sharon 


Ron  Boh  I  in 


WAS  AMAZED  at  the  poor  picture  they  [the 
English]  seem  to  get  of  what  the  U.S.  is  like,"  says  Ron 
Bohlin,  '73.  "It's  not  at  all  accurate.  I  was  surprised  by  the 
number  of  people  who  wouldn't  want  to  visit  America." 

Bohlin's  life  in  America  has  been  a  good  one.  A  small 
town  boy  (from  West  Boylston,  Mass.),  he  has  always 
immersed  himself  in  whatever  activities  were  available. 
While  a  student  at  West  Boylston  High  School,  he  ran 
cross-country  and  was  a  member  of  the  soccer  team  and  the 
chess  club.  He  also  belonged  to  the  Varsity  Club,  yearbook 
staff,  and  the  mathematics  club. 

He  even  found  time  for  a  job  as  a  ski  instructor  at  Ward 
Hill  in  Shrewsbury. 

Once  enrolled  at  WPI,  he  was  off  and  running  again  — 
this  time  in  freshman  track  and  football.  He  joined  Phi 
Gamma  Delta  Fraternity  and  the  ski  club.  Last  summer  he 
took  a  job  with  the  American  Telephone  &  Telegraph 
Company  in  Boston. 

Ron  Bohlin's  life  so  far  has  been  busy  and  varied.  He 
has  found  the  spirit  of  America  definitely  to  his  liking.  But, 
after  recovering  from  the  shock  of  what  the  British  thought 
of  his  country,  he  fitted  himself  rather  easily  into  campus 
life  at  City.  "Friendships  followed  a  very  natural  course  We 
weren't  special  and  we  weren't  odd-balls. 


10 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


"The  university  dormitories  were  exceptional,"  he 
continued.  "So  was  the  student  union.  But  the  rules  were  a 
bore.  At  home  the  dorms  are  lacking  in  facilities  for  both 
academic  and  free-time  pursuits;  however,  WPI  does  allow 
the  necessary  freedoms  to  make  up  for  it." 

City  University  itself  goes  in  for  ultraspecialization, 
which  is  not  good,  he  feels.  "At  WPI  we  have  a  better 
educational  experience,  but  we  do  not  get  as  much  specific 
knowledge,"  he  declared.  "Also  I  think  that  WPI  is  more 
demanding  in  the  course  work  required  and  in  the  actual 
time  spent  doing  mechanical  things.  The  City  University 
seemed  to  require  much  more  piecing-together  of  the 
relevant  aspects  of  the  theoretical.  This  is  a  direction  in 
which  WPI  appears  to  be  moving,  and  that  is  good." 

At  WPI  Bohlin  is  majoring  in  management  engineering. 
In  England  he  attended  the  Graduate  School  of  Business  at 
City.  His  ultimate  goal  is  to  end  up  in  the  field  of  business 
administration,    possibly    in    staff-nature    management    or 


consulting.  He  is  also  keeping  his  options  open.  He  may 
work  for  his  MBA  or  DBA  degrees  so  that  he  could  go  into 
college  teaching. 

Because  of  his  interest  in  teaching  he  took  a  hard  look 
at  the  professors  and  staff  at  City.  His  verdict?  "At  WPI 
they  seem  far  superior  in  every  respect." 

Regarding  textbooks  he  says,  "The  English  system 
appears  to  rely  much  less  on  textbooks  and  much  more  on 
lectures  and  related  research." 

Bohlin  is  a  sports  buff  (skiing,  tennis,  and  mountain 
climbing)  and  as  such  was  interested  in  the  sports  program 
at  City.  "Over  there  they  are  less  competitive,"  he  says, 
"and  not  well  organized,  but  they  do  encourage  participa- 
tion. At  WPI  we  are  more  competitive  and  organized,  but 
more  dedication  is  required,  too." 


High  Voltage  Engineering  Laboratory  and  electrical  and  electronic 
engineering  buildings.  City  University 


Comparing  the  habits  of  his  English  friends  with  those 
at  WPI  he  observes:  "The  English  do  not  travel  nearly  as 
much  as  we  do.  That's  the  most  obvious  thing.  Also  they 
tend  to  study  less  per  night  and  spread  things  out  more, 
even  to  the  point  of  studying  on  the  weekend.  [!  —  Ed.]  At 
WPI  we  will  cram  for  a  night  and  then  do  nothing  the  next 
night. 

How  does  he  feel  about  the  exchange  program  now? 

"I  got  from  the  program  everything  I  wanted  and 
expected,"  he  replied.  "It  did  require  a  bit  more  manipulat- 
ing on  my  part  than  I  had  bargained  for,  because  no  one 
was  really  ready  for  us  and  we  had  to  make  all  our  own 
arrangements." 

He  felt  that  the  British  students  had  somewhat  of  an 
edge  over  the  WPI  students  in  the  program.  "They  have 
sponsors  who  pay  for  their  expenses,"  he  explained.  "We 
had  to  pay  our  own  way.  Also  the  grades  they  received  at 
WPI  don't  count  toward  their  graduation.  The  grades  we 
received  at  City  do." 

He  laughed,  perhaps  a  bit  enviously.  "No  wonder 
they're  having  such  a  great  time  over  here."  But  he  thought 
for  a  moment  and  then  remarked:  "Oh,  well,  no  matter.  I 
had  a  great  time  over  there,  too." 


'S  THE  EXCHANGE  PROGRAM  moves 
into  its  second  year,  the  cross-pollination  of  ideas  between 
WPI  and  City  University  students  increases.  As  the  partici- 
pating students  have  noted,  the  exchange  program  offers 
them  a  unique  opportunity  to  expand  their  personal 
horizons,  partly  by  exposure  to  another  college  and  another 
educational  tradition,  but  mostly  by  the  fact  of  living  in  a 
different  country  and  being  able  to  experience  first-hand 
the  strengths  and  diversity  of  a  different  culture.  ■ 


12 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


Semester  Abroad 


"  NEXT  YEAR    I'M  GOING 
TO  TAKE  A  COURSE   IN 
ITALIAN   BEFORE  I  COME 
OVER   HERE." 


"I'VE  SEEN  ITALLONT.V. 


V,I'M  GETTING  A  LOT  OUT 
OF  THIS-"  LIVING  THE 
WAV  THE  NATIVES  DO." 


"  I'VE  GOT  SO  MANY 
PRESENTS  TO  BUY 
EOR  RELATIVES,  | 
DON'T   HAVE  TIME  TO 
GOTO  CLASSES." 


"HE  WANTS   EXTRA, 
CREDIT  BECAUSE   HE 
SAYS  SEEING   THE 
FOLLIES   BERGERE   IS 
AN  EDUCATIONAL 
EXPERIENCE." 


"NO  WONDER   WE 
AMERICANS   GET  f\  BAD 
NAME.  LOOK  HOW  THOSE 
TOUR\STS  ARE  DRESSED." 


"I  JUST  MET  THE 
DREAMIEST  &-UY  FROM 
STANFORD." 


a^ 


T   ^  .  '    Q  i 


"  E  WPI  JOURNAL 


13 


a^torg: 
BeWlerog  at  the  Bratobridge; 

©rr, 
fPatt's  in  gour  Bame? 


ie 


e-tn-cheek  a 

or  the 


•) 


B 


jeVILLEROY  and  his  HARDY  TROOP  sat 
DOWNE  on  the  LONG  STONE  BENSCH. 
The  WATERS  did  RIPPLE  AGIN  and  AGIN 
against  the  BANKS  of  the  POND  as  the  FURST 
STARR  ROSE. 

"I  PRAY  YULE  GRANT  us  the  WRIGHT  to 
HUNT  and  FISH  for  CHOW,  your  GRACE,"  said 
GALLANT  BARON  McDONALD.  "We've  had 
NARY  a  SWALLOW  since  DAY  began.  MAY  we 
go?" 

PRINCE  DeVILLEROY'S  PAN  showed  TRUE 
PAINE.  His  eye  did  PIERCE  the  VALE  of 
KNIGHT. 

"In  the  LITE  FROM  BURGER  CASTLE  on 
the  FARR  SHORE  I  CAN  see  the  KING,  his 
CHAMBERLAIN  and  the  SARGENT  DOWNING 
BACON,  BUCK,  and  BEERS.  They'll  be  FULOP 
on  the  MORROW.  They'll  POPP  their  ARMOUR 
and  we  SHELL  WIN  the  BATTLE." 

The  PRINCE  did  PRESS  McDONALD's  RIST. 
"As  for  you,  FRIEND,"  he  said,  "Take  the  BEST 
KADETS  to  that  BALDWIN  APPLEYARD  in  the 
VALLEE.     Fill     these    SACKS     with    LOTZ    of 


14 


PICKENS.  And  let  no  PERSON  UTTER  ORR 
HASZARD  a  sound.  KING  ARTHUR  and  his 
HENCHMAN  GAMBLE  that  we  are  WEEKS  WEST 
of  this  PARK.  Yet  NOTT  but  the  BLACK  of  this 
JUNE  KNIGHT  is  our  SANCTUARY." 

"OMAN,"  McDONALD  exclaimed.  "I'll  take 
BETTS  that  each  OFFICER  and  CADET  WILL 
AMEND  this  RULE  and  seek  to  SHAIR  MOORE. 
If  they  could  FIELD  a  DOE  -." 

DeVILLEROY's  TONE  was  CROSS.  "No 
SCHOTT  SHELL  be  HURD,"  he  said.  "  'Ere  you 
WILL  be  a  HUNTER  STUCKE  into  a  COFFIN 
with  the  ROYAL  KING  dancing  at  your  WAKE!" 

The  GROOP  LUEFT  and  were  LONG  gone. 
Upon  their  return  they  did  CARY  MOORE  THAN 
the  SACKS  that  were  expected. 

"The  BRANCH  PICKENS  were  WERME  and 
SAUER  but  these  FROM  the  BAKER's  dozen  were 
SWEET,"  explained  McDONALD.  "Meet  SYLVIA, 
PENNEY,  JOYCE,  and  GILDA,  your  GRACE. 
They  COOK." 

DeVILLEROY  laughed.  "Do  they  know  a 
GILL    FROM    a    FINN,"    he    TEAZEd.    "WATT 

THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


J 


BRASS,  McDONALD!  We  CAN  NOTT  COOK 
where  we'll  be  SEIN  by  the  COURT  ARCHERs. 
And  these  HUSSEYs  might  HOLLER  if  they  go. 
You  FOX!  I  should  KLAUBER  you!" 

The  ANGELL  with  the  BROWN  LOCKE 
POLKing  FROM  HERR  BONNET  smiled  and 
DeVILLEROY  was  a  MOODY  CRABB  no 
MOORE.  Even  his  JEALOUS  HAIGHT  of  the 
KING  who  had  stolen  his  JEWELL,  "It  EBBS,"  he 
thought. 

But  in  the  EARLY  GRAY  of  DAY,  the 
HAIGHT  returned.  He  did  LOVE  the  FAMILY 
DIAMOND  that  the  KING  did  HYDE  inside  the 
CASTLE  WAHL. 

In  a  LOW  BELLO  DeVILLEROY  commanded, 
"Let  each  ABEL  MANN  WAKE  and  so  to  BAT- 
TLE! Be  WARY  of  the  ROYAL  ARCHERs.  Sir 
HEBERT's  swimmers  will  HACK  the  DRAW- 
BRIDGE tethers  so  it  WILL  FALL  and  then  the 
TROOPs  CAN  FORD  the  WATERS.  Once  inside 
the  CASTLE  either  SLAUGHTER  ORR  CLAPP 
the  COURT  in  IRONS.  I'll  get  the  FAMILY 
JEWELL." 

The  swimmers  did  HACK  with  HAMMER  and 
STEELE  the  DRAWBRIDGE  BONDS  and  it  did 
FALL  open  half  WAY.  By  then  the  ARCHERs  on 


the  CASTLE  SPIRES  had  WOLK.  They  SCHOTT 
STORMS  of  arrows  among  the  KADETS.  The 
COURT  CANNON  roared,  but  no  BALL  or 
SHARP  SHANK  hit  one  MANN  beneath  the  CAPE 
of  FOGG. 

"Neither  our  KADETS  nor  the  ROYAL 
BRIDGMAN  CAN  get  the  DRAWBRIDGE  up 
ORR  DOWNE,"  reported  SWIFT  MESSINGER 
LENNY  LIGHTFOOT. 

"I  protest  the  LAK  of  LIBERTY  in  this 
BATTLE,  the  LAK  of  planning,  and  the  LAK  of 
food,"  interrupted  DeVILLEROY's  advocate, 
WILLIAMS  KUENZLER. 

"BUTTON  up,  BONE  HEAD,"  DeVILLEROY 
demanded.  "And  you,  McDONALD,  tell  the 
TROOP  to  break  CAMP.  In  MAY  when  the  FOGG 
lifts  and  the  DRAWBRIDGE  is  DOWNE,  we'll 
make  a  TRIPP  back.  By  that  time  the  BRAUNy 
Duke  of  NELSON-HALL  WILL  be  ABEL  to  join 
us  and  give  us  HART." 

"No  WARR  today?"  his  FRIEND  asked,  as  he 
did  PYLE  SHIELDS  on  a  STUMPP. 

"No  WARR  today,"  DeVILLEROY  replied. 
"The  PRICE  could  be  too  GRIMM." 

"AW  NUTTs,"  sighed  McDONALD  who 
WOOD  have  to  WAIT  a  while  to  be  GALLANT 
AGIN.  ■ 


,     nr-,      ^^y^v 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


15 


If  you  haven't  been  back  to  campus  in  the  past  couple 
of  months,  you  will  be  surprised  at  what's  happened 
to  Boynton  Hill.  The  city  of  Worcester  is  making  Insti- 
tute Road,  which  skirts  the  southern  edge  of  the 
campus,  into  a  major  traffic  artery.  To  cope  with  the 
increased  traffic  flow  and  increased  vehicular  speeds 
anticipated,  they  have  taken  over  a  part  of  the  base  of 
the  hill,  nearly  straightening  out  the  curve  at  that  point. 
The  photographs  on  these  pages  show  some  of  the 
stages  in  the  work  on  the  hill.  A  retaining  wall  is  to  be 
constructed  along  the  edge. 

This  is  a  move  which  all  of  us  at  WPI  were  concerned 
about,  but  determined  action  by  the  college  adminis- 
tration in  cooperation  with  city  officials  resulted  in  a 
compromise  that  successfully  retained  much  of  the 
|and— and  the  trees— originally  scheduled  for  removal. 

This  action  comes  at  a  time  when  WPI  has  petitioned 
the  City  Council  to  close  off  West  Street  at  Institute 
Road  (see  November  Newsbriefs),  in  order  to  reduce 
traffic  hazards  and  unify  the  two  campus  "islands"  on 
either  side  of  West  Street.  The  college  hopes  that  the 
closing  of  West  Street  and  the  takeover  of  part  of  the 
hill  will,  in  essence,  represent  an  exchange  of  land  in 
the  public  interest. 


m 


.>^js* 


16 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


A  remarkable  view  showing  the  extent  of  the  cut  — 
and  the  city's  reasons  for  wanting  to  straighten  out  the 
the  street. 


The  former  — 
and  future  — 
location  of 
Institute  Road 


"HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


17 


ecoming  1^2 


We  won  the  ball  game, 
and  everyone  had  a  ball. 


Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ken  Blaisdell,  '40, 
Winners  of  the  Tailgate  Picnic  Competition. 


18 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


19 


COMPLETED 
CAREERS 


WILLIAM   A.  JORDAN,    02 

William  A.  Jordan,  the  former  New  York 
sales  manager  for  Essex  Wire  Corp.  (Fort 
Wayne,  Ind.),  passed  away  in  New  York 
City  on  October  13,  1972. 

He  was  born  August  31 ,  1 876  at  Sutton, 
P.Q.,  Canada  and  graduated  in  1902  as  a 
mechanical  engineer  from  WPI  where  he 
was  a  member  of  Phi  Gamma.  Delta 
Fraternity. 

Prior  to  his  30-year  association  with 
Essex  as  New  York  manager,  he  saw 
service  as  a  sales  engineer  for  Anaconda 
Wire  &  Cable  Co.,  New  York  City.  At  one 
time  he  was  a  partner  in  Jordan  and  Wilds, 
Sales  Engineers,  New  York.  For  two  years 
he  was  also  vice  president.  United  Motors 
Service  Division,  General  Motors,  Detroit, 
Mich.  Other  companies  he  was  associated 
with  were  American  Vulcanizing  Fibre  Co., 
Wilmington,  Del.;  Charles  Warner  Co., 
Wilmington;  Stephen  T.  Williams  &  Staff, 
Industrial  Engineers,  New  York  City;  C. 
W.  Hunt  Company,  Staten  Island,  N.Y.; 
and  Sullivan  Machinery  Company,  Clare- 
mont,  N.H. 

From  1962  until  his  death  he  was  a 
consulting  sales  engineer  for  Essex  Wire 
Co. 

Mr.  Jordan,  who  was  a  former  president 
of  the  New  York  chapter  of  the  Alumni 
Association,  was  a  life  member  of  ASME. 
He  also  belonged  to  the  Empire  State 
Society,  Sons  of  the  American  Revolution 
and  the  New  York  Athletic  Club. 

CHARLES   L.  TUCKER,  '06 

Charles  L.  Tucker,  89,  died  August  13  in 
Worcester. 

A  North  Brookfield  native,  he  graduated 
from  WPI  and  was  later  employed  as  a 
chemist  for  Felton  &  Son  Distillery,  Boston, 
for  more  than  50  years  prior  to  his  retire- 
ment in  1954. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  American 
Chemical  Society  and  The  Tech  Old 
Timers  Club.  At  one  time  he  was  on  the 
Board  of  Managers  of  the  Boston  Chapter 
of  the  Alumni  Association. 

HOWARD    B.   WARREN,     09 

Howard  B.  Warren  passed  away  on  May 
7,  1972  in  Mobile,  Alabama. 


20 


He  graduated  from  WPI  as  a  chemist. 
After  working  for  a  time  as  a  chemist,  he 
took  over  the  operation  of  an  X-ray 
laboratory.  He  retired  in  1950. 

RALPH   D.  WHITMORE,  '09 

Ralph  D.  Whitmore,  84,  an  eminent 
mechanical  engineer  in  the  motion  picture 
industry  for  three  decades,  died  in  New 
York  City  on  October  1 3,  1 972  following  a 
long  illness. 

He  was  born  in  Sunderland,  Mass.  As  a 
student  at  WPI  he  was  president  of  his 
class  and  of  Theta  Upsilon  Omega,  now 
Sigma  Phi  Epsilon.  He  was  also  a  member 
of  Sigma  Xi  and  Tau  Beta  Pi. 

After  receiving  his  MS  in  engineering 
from  WPI  in  1911,  he  taught  at  Tsing  Hua 
College  in  Peking,  China,  until  1917.  Back 
in  the  U.S.A.  he  taught  engineering  at 
WPI.  From  1929  until  1960  he  was  in 
charge  of  machine  design  and  film  proc- 
essing in  the  New  York  laboratories  and 
in  research  and  development  of  20th 
Century-Fox  Film  Corp. 

In  1961  he  received  an  Academy  Award 
for  outstanding  technical  achievement  in 
the  conversion  of  Cinemascope  and  in 
1966  he  was  elected  a  Fellow  by  the 
Society  of  Motion  Picture  and  Television 
Engineers. 

During  World  War  II  he  served  as  chief 
of  design  section  at  Harvard  University  in 
the  Underwater  Sound  Laboratories  for 
the  U.S.  Navy. 

Mr.  Whitmore  was  a  civic  leader  in 
New  Rochelle,  N.Y.,  and  as  director  of  the 
Charter  League,  he  successfully  pressed 
for  civic  reform,  resulting  in  the  establish- 
ment of  the  city  manager  form  of  govern- 
ment. He  was  president  of  the  East  End 
Association  and  the  New  Rochelle  Schol- 
arship Fund. 

He  was  a  professional  engineer  in 
Massachusetts,  a  member  of  ASME,  and 
served  as  a  consultant  for  the  U.S.  Signal 
Corps  and  the  National  Film  Board  of 
Canada. 

FRED   W.   KENNEDY,   '11 

Fred  W.  Kennedy  passed  away  May  7, 1 972 
in  North  Carolina. 

He  was  born  June  3,  1888  in  Brockton. 
Mass.    He    graduated    from    WPI    as    a 


mechanical  engineer  and  worked  for 
American  Steel  and  Wire,  Worcester,  for 
four  years.  For  31  years  he  was  with  Graton 
&  Knight  Co.  Later  he  joined  Hans  Rees' 
Sons  in  Asheville,  N.C.,  as  a  superintendent. 
In  1956  he  retired  as  works  manager  from 
W.  E.  Byron  &  Sons  of  Maryland,  Williams- 
port,  Md. 

Mr.  Kennedy  was  a  member  of  Alpha 
Tau  Omega  Fraternity  and  Tau  Beta  Pi. 

ROGER   E.   KING,  '11 

Roger  E.  King,  84,  passed  away  September 
24,  1972  in  Worcester. 

A  Worcester  native,  for  many  years  he 
worked  in  the  former  Worcester  Bank  & 
Trust  Co.  Until  his  retirement  in  1950  he 
was  with  George  A.  Smith  Co. 

ERNEST   B.    NORTON,   '15 

Ernest  B.  Norton  died  May  2,  1972  in 
Eureka  Springs,  Arkansas. 

He  graduated  from  WPI  as  an  electrical 
engineer  in  1915.  For  a  number  of  years 
he  worked  as  a  purchasing  agent  for  the 
Milwaukee  &  Suburban  Transport  Corp. 
in  Wisconsin.  He  retired  in  1  961 . 

E.  TAYLOR  WARREN,   '15 

E.  Taylor  Warren,  78,  the  former  president 
of  the  U.S.  division  of  Tata  Iron  and  Steel 
Company,  New  York  City,  died  July  29, 
1972  in  Bridgeport,  Conn. 

Mr.  Warren  was  born  in  St.  Albans,  Vt. 
in  1894  and  was  later  graduated  from  WPI 
as  a  civil  engineer.  He  was  a  member  of 
Skull  and  Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon.  For  11 
years  he  was  a  blast  furnace  consultant 
for  the  Tata  Company  in  Jamshedpur, 
India.  While  in  India  he  was  financial 
chairman  of  the  Vellore  Christian  Medical 
College  and  Hospital. 

Mr.  Warren  was  a  past  president  of  the 
Pittsburgh  Chapter  of  the  Alumni  Associa- 
tion, and  a  member  of  AIME  and  the 
Eastern  States  and  Chicago  Blast  Furnace 
and  Coke  Oven  Association. 

HAROLD  M.  TOOMBS.  '16 
Harold  M.  Toombs,  78,  chief  engineer  at 
Chicago's  Conrad  Hilton  Hotel  for  28 
years,  died  in  October  in  Oak  Park,  Illinois. 
A  native  of  Brooklyn,  NY.,  he  graduated 
from  WPI  as  a  civil  engineer.  During  his 

THE  WPI  JOURNAL' 


lifetime  he  was  chief  engineer  at  three  of 
the  world's  largest  organizations  of  their 
kind:  The  Western  Felt  Works;  the  Chicago 
Division  of  Armour  &  Co.;  and  Chicago's 
Conrad  Hilton  Hotel. 

Mr.  Toombs  was  noted  throughout  his 
profession  as  an  expert  in  mechanical  re- 
frigeration. He  wrote  articles  on  the  subject 
for  the  National Provisioner  and  was  author 
of  a  textbook  used  in  a  home  study  course 
in  air  conditioning  and  refrigeration. 

He  was  a  member  of  Phi  Gamma  Delta, 
the  Chief  Engineers  Association,  and  the 
National  Association  of  Practical  Refrigera- 
tion Engineers. 

CHARLES   HOLLERITH,   '17 

Charles  Hollerith,  chairman  of  the  board  of 
Hollerith-Willis  Printing  Co.,  Jackson, 
Michigan,  died  March  29,  1972. 

He  was  born  in  Washington,  D.C.,  on 
December  30,  1893.  In  1917  he  received 
his  BS  in  mechanical  engineering  from 
WPI  where  he  was  a  member  of  Alpha  Tau 
Omega  Fraternity  and  Tau  Beta  Pi. 

During  his  career  Mr.  Hollerith  had  been 
president  of  the  Magnechase  Corporation, 
Jackson,  Mich.;  vice  president  of  Walstrom 
Products,  Inc.,  and  Walstrom  Marine,  Inc., 
Harbor  Springs,  Mich.;  vice  president  and 
director  of  Aeroquip  Corporation,  Jackson, 
Mich. 

He  had  also  been  associated  with  Hayes 
Industries,  Inc.,  in  Jackson,  Midwest 
Engine  Company  and  Nordyke  and 
Marmon,  Inc. 

Mr.  Hollerith  designed  products  and 
equipment  that  helped  to  revolutionize  a 
number  of  industries.  Millions  of  automo- 
tive mufflers  sold  by  Hayes  Industries  to 
leading  automotive  firms  included  one  or 
more  of  his  inventions.  The  Walstom  firm 
manufactured  the  marine  accessories  he 
designed  and  Aeroquip  marketed  a  break- 
away coupling  that  he  patented.  Aircraft 
wheels  and  brakes  and  other  parts  used 
exclusively  during  World  War  II  on  B-17, 
B-24,  B-29  and  B-32  bombers  were  his 
invention.  Hotpoint  took  out  a  license  to 
manufacture  the  Hollerith  dishwasher  and 
Yardman,  Inc.,  has  been  producing  power 
mowers  of  his  design  for  many  years. 

He  also  received  patents  on  cooking 
appliances,  printing  equipment,  and  dinghy 
and  davit  stabilizing  equipment  for  boats. 

In  1963,  having  75  patents  to  his  credit, 
he  was  honored  as  one  of  Michigan's  55 
outstanding  living  inventors.  In  1964  he 
received  the  Robert  H.  Goddard  award  for 
professional  achievement  from  the  WPI 
Alumni  Association. 

Mr.  Hollerith  was  a  member  of  the 
American  Institute  of  Aeronautics  and 
Astronautics,  the  Society  of  Automotive 
Engineers  and  ASME.  For  many  years  he 
was  a  leader  in  the  Junior  Achievement 
program  in  Jackson,  Mich. 

MALCOLM   J.    QUIMBY,   '20 

Malcolm  J.  Quimby,  75,  passed  away 
suddenly  on  August  6  in  New  Bedford, 
Massachusetts. 

Mr.  Quimby,  who  was  born  in  Wild- 
wood,  New  Jersey,  graduated  as  an  elec- 


trical engineer  from  WPI.  For  forty  years  he 
was  employed  by  the  New  England  Elec- 
tric Co.  and  the  New  England  Power  Co. 
As  a  resident  of  Sharon,  he  served  as  a 
water  commissioner  for  a  number  of  years. 

ALBERT  H.   PENDLETON,  '23 

Albert  H.  Pendleton,  a  retired  partner  in 
the  law  firm  of  Pendleton,  Neuman, 
Williams  &  Anderson,  Chicago,  passed 
away  October  10,  1972. 

He  was  born  in  Lebanon,  Conn.,  on 
March  15,  1901,  later  graduating  from 
WPI  as  an  electrical  engineer.  He  also 
graduated  from  Duquesne  Law  School  in 
1927. 

From  1923  to  1927  he  served  as  an 
associate  attorney  in  the  Patent  Depart- 
ment of  Westinghouse  Electric  &  Mfg.  Co., 
East  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  From  1927  to  1972 
he  was  a  partner  in  the  firm  of  Pendleton, 
Neuman.  Williams,  &  Anderson.  He  re- 
tired in  January,  but  remained  as  counsel. 

Mr.  Pendleton,  a  former  president  of  the 
Chicago  Chapter  of  the  Alumni  Associa- 
tion, was  a  member  of  the  American  Bar 
Association,  Chicago  Bar  Association, 
Patent  Law  Association  of  Chicago  (Presi- 
dent 1957),  Bar  Association  of  the 
Seventh  Federal  Circuit,  American  Patent 
Law  Association,  and  American  Judicature 
Society. 

URBAN    R.    LAMAY,   '25 

Urban  R.  Lamay,  68,  passed  away  in  July 
in  Drexel  Hill,  Pennsylvania. 

He  was  born  in  Holyoke,  Mass.,  and 
graduated  with  a  degree  in  electrical 
engineering  from  WPI  in  1925.  After 
graduation  he  joined  the  General  Electric 
Company  in  Schenectady,  N.Y.  He  retired 
in  1969  as  an  engineer  with  the  Philadel- 
phia division  of  the  company  following  43 
years  of  service. 

Mr.  Lamay  was  a  member  of  Theta  Chi, 
Skull,  and  the  Quarter  Century  Robert 
Good  Chapter  of  G.  E.  He  was  president 
of  the  Senior  Citizens  Club  of  Drexel  Hill. 

GEORGE   L.   SANDERS,  '26 

George  L.  Sanders,  68,  of  Natick,  Massa- 
chusetts, passed  away  last  summer. 

He  was  a  Western  Union  employee  for 
41  years.  He  was  also  a  Mason  and  a 
member  of  the  Natick  Square  Riggers. 

LESTER   G.  JAQUITH,   '27 

Lester  G.  Jaquith  died  suddenly  at  his 
summer  home  in  Annisquam,  Massachu- 
setts on  August  12,  1972.  He  was  67 
years  old. 

He  was  born  in  Clinton,  enrolled  at 
WPI,  and  was  graduated  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  New  Hampshire.  He  was  a 
member  of  Theta  Chi  Fraternity. 

Prior  to  his  retirement  in  1  969,  he  was  a 
mechanical  engineer  at  the  U.S.  Naval 
Shipyard  in  Charlestown. 

RALPH   V.    KARLSON,  '28 

Ralph  V.  Karlson,  68,  died  in  Bradenton, 
Florida,  on  August  17,  1972. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  graduated  from 
WPI  as  a  mechanical  engineer.  He  went  to 


work  for  the  Texas  Oil  Co.  in  1928.  In 
1969  he  retired  as  assistant  chief  engineer 
for  Texaco. 


LESTER   W.    FRANK,   '29 

Lester  W.  Frank,  65,  died  of  gunshot 
wounds  inflicted  by  an  apparent  would-be 
robber  in  Painesville,  Ohio,  on  September 
3,  1972. 

The  retired  director  of  rates  and  eco- 
nomic research,  Western  Massachusetts 
Electric  Co.,  Springfield,  he  was  born  in 
Boston  and  graduated  from  WPI  as  an 
electrical  engineer.  Mr.  Frank  was  a 
member  of  Lambda  Chi  Alpha  and  the 
former  president  of  the  Connecticut  Valley 
Chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association.  He  also 
was  a  member  at  large  from  that  chapter 
and  served  on  the  Fund  Board. 

A  registered  professional  engineer,  his 
professional  societies  included  the  Ameri- 
can Marketing  Association  and  the  Western 
Massachusetts  Engineering  Society. 

ROGER  T.   GRISWOLD,  '30 

Roger  T.  Griswold,  66,  died  September  1, 
1972  in  St.  Petersburg,  Florida. 

A  mechanical  engineer,  he  was  born  in 
Worcester  and  served  a  number  of  years  as 
a  design  engineer  at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Air- 
craft Corp.,  East  Hartford,  Conn.  Mr. 
Griswold,  who  was  retired  in  1967,  was  a 
former  trustee  of  Barrington  (R.I.)  Bible 
College. 

DR.  JOHN  J.   REARICK,  '35 

Dr.  John  J.  Rearick,  58,  a  physician  from 
Warren,  Mass.,  passed  away  in  Worcester 
on  October  10,  1972  following  a  long 
illness. 

He  was  born  in  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  and 
later  enrolled  at  WPI  where  he  studied 
mechanical  engineering.  In  1942  he  re- 
ceived his  MD  from  Temple  University. 

He  was  awarded  the  Bronze  Star  among 
other  decorations  for  his  heroic  service  as 
a  Captain  in  the  Army  Medical  Corps  in 
the  Asiatic  Pacific  area  in  World  War  II. 

At  the  time  of  his  death  he  was  engaged 
in  general  practice  in  Warren.  He  was  chief 
anesthetist  at  Mary  Lane  Hospital,  Ware. 
For  several  years  he  was  a  resident  physi- 
cian at  St.  Vincent  Hospital  in  Worcester. 

Dr.  Rearick  was  a  member  of  the 
Western  Massachusetts  Anesthesia  So- 
ciety. 

ROBERT   H.    HOOD.   '36 

The  president  of  R.  H.  Hood  Co.,  Phila- 
delphia, Robert  H.  Hood,  died  April  6, 1 972 
in  Pennsylvania. 

He  was  born  in  1915  in  Philadelphia  and 
attended  WPI  where  he  was  a  member  of 
Theta  Chi  Fraternity. 

Mr.  Hood  was  a  Mason  and  a  member 
of  the  Overseer  Board  of  Sturbridge 
Village,  Mass. 

ALBERT   L.    D'AMOURS,   JR.,   '57 

Albert  L.  D'Amours,  Jr.,  37,  passed  away 
August  27,  1972  in  Springfield,  Massa- 
chusetts following  a  long  illness. 

He  was  born  in  Holyoke,  studied  at 
WPI,  and  was  later  employed  by  Oriole 
Engineering  Co.,  Inc.,  of  New  England. 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


21 


YOUR  CLASS  AND  OTHERS 


1926 

WINTHROP  S.  MARSTON  has  retired 
from  the  National  Park  Service  in  San 
Francisco  where  he  served  as  an  electrical 
engineer. 

1928 

GIFFORD  T.  COOK  has  retired  after 
serving  30  years  as  a  civilian  employee 
with  the  U.S.  military  establishment.  He 
served  most  recently  with  the  Air  Force  in 
Washington,  D.C.,  where  he  was  engaged 
in  formulating  and  directing  the  military 
fire  protection  and  aircraft  ground  rescue 
programs  worldwide.  He  plans  to  spend 
the  winter  months  skiing  in  the  Austrian 
Alps. 

1929 

JOHN  E.  GILL  has  retired  from  his 
duties  as  a  manager  at  Buffalo  Forge  Co., 
Buffalo,  N.Y. 

1931 

FRANCIS  J.  BURGOYNE  was  recently 
chosen  to  fill  the  position  of  Clerk  of  the 
Works  for  the  New  Middle  School  which 
is  being  built  in  Lancaster,  Mass.  He  is  a 
former  Lancaster  building  inspector  and 
selectman  and  has  had  a  wide  experience 
in  construction  in  this  country  and  abroad. 
.  .  .  WARREN  N.  DOUBLEDAY  has  re- 
tired as  an  electrical  engineer  for  the  U.S. 

Air  Force HERBERT  A.  STEWART  has 

retired  as  vice  president  of  R.  E.  Phelon  Co., 
East  Longmeadow,  Mass.  He  currently  re- 
sides in  West  Tisbury.  .  .  .  RALPH  HODG- 
KINSON,  director  of  craft  demonstrations 
at  Old  Sturbridge  (Mass.)  Village,  was 
guest  speaker  at  the  August  meeting  of 
The  Sanbornton  (N.H.)  Historical  Society. 

1932 

RAYMOND  E.  NICHOLS,  who  is  a 
project  engineer  for  the  Kendall  Company 
(now  merged  with  Colgate  Palmolive  Co.), 
is  currently  located  in  Bethune,  S.C. 

1933 

ARTHUR  E.  SMITH  has  been  elected 
Chairman  of  the  Board  of  United  Aircraft 
Corp.,  East  Hartford,  Conn.  Last  year  he 


was  elected  chairman  of  the  UAC  execu- 
tive committee  after  serving  as  president 
and  chief  administrative  officer  since  1 968. 
He  joined  the  company  in  1935. 

1934 

ROBERT  B.  LOGAN  has  retired  as 
manager  of  maintenance  and  engineering 
at  St.  Vincent  Hospital,  Worcester,  Mass. 

1935 

DONALD  G.  MacMILLAN  was  recently 
appointed  full-time  superintendent  of  the 
Auburn  (Mass.)  Sewer  Department.  He 
has  served  as  a  member  and  chairman  of 
the  town's  Sewer  Commission.  He  retired 
as  a  senior  product  engineer  in  the  Elec- 
trical Cable  Division  of  U.S.  Steel  Corp., 
Worcester,  in  January  of  1972. 

1936 

ELWYN  A.  MURDOCK  has  retired  as 
owner  of  Murdock  Construction  Co.,  New 
Haven,  Conn.  .  .  .  JOHN  A.  PORTER  has 
been  named  a  machinery  sales  representa- 
tive for  the  Machinery  Division  of  Joseph 
T.  Ryerson  &  Son,  Inc.  He  will  represent 
the  division  throughout  the  New  England 
states,  with  the  exception  of  Connecticut. 

1937 

ROLLAND  W.  McMURPHY  has  been 
named  assistant  construction  division 
engineer  of  turnpikes  for  the  New  Hamp- 
shire State  Highway  Department.  He  had 
been  district  construction  engineer  since 
1958. 

1938 

FRED  B.  BANAN  is  a  consulting  systems 
specialist  for  General  Electric  Co.,  Bethesda, 
Md. . . .  J  RANDOLPH  BUCK  has  recently 
been  named  manager,  Reservoir  Engineer- 
ing Dept  ,  Michigan  Consolidated  Gas  Co., 
Detroit.  .  .  .  ROBERT  B  KEITH,  a  former 
industrial  engineer  for  U.S.  Steel  Corp., 
Pittsburgh,  Pa.,  has  retired. 


1939 

ELMER   E.   NUTTING 
Wesson,     division     of 
Springfield,  Mass. 


is  with  Smith  & 
Bangor     Printer. 


22 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL   :-< 


1940 

PROF.  LAWRENCE  C.  NEALE,  direc- 
tor of  the  Alden  Research  Laboratories, 
has  been  made  a  Fellow  of  the  American 
Society  of  Mechanical  Engineers.  Prof. 
Neale  is  widely  known  for  his  work  in 
modeling  of  civil-engineering-type  hy- 
draulic systems  ranging  from  fluid  machin- 
ery through  calibration  of  flow  meters  to 
large-scale  water  transport  systems.  He 
has  been  instrumental  in  keeping  Alden 
Laboratory  in  the  forefront  of  those  installa- 
tions conducting  research  in  experimental 
hydraulics.  ...  DR.  MICHAEL  WALES 
currently  serves  as  a  chemist  for  Shell 
Development  Co.,  Houston,  Texas.  .  .  . 
David  B.  Zipser  is  general  manager  of  the 
Wilmington  Coil  Division  of  Singer  Co., 
Wilmington,  N.C. 

1941 

EARLE  F.  WEBSTER  is  a  technical 
superintendent  for  Unilok,  the  Belting 
Division  of  Georgia  Duck  and  Cordage 
Mill,  Atlanta,  Ga. 

1942 

E.  C U  RTIS  AM  B  LE R  has  been  appointed 
manager  of  corporate  product  research  for 
The  Stanley  Works,  New  Britain,  Conn. 
He  has  been  project  manager,  corporate 
product  development  department,  since 
1970.  In  1967  he  joined  Stanley  as 
manager  of  research  and  product  engineer- 
ing for  the  Power  Tools  Division.  .  .  . 
ALLAN  G.  ANDERSON  is  a  project  man- 
ager at  Bell  Aerospace  Co.  (Division  of 
Textron),  New  Orleans,  La.  .  .  .  RALPH  A. 
FRASER  is  a  staff  engineer  for  Amoco 
Production  Co.,  New  Orleans,  La.  .  .  . 
RALPH  D.  WHITMORE,  JR.,  chief  of 
design  engineering  with  the  Hollywood 
Film  Equipment  Co.,  has  been  elected  a 
Fellow  of  the  Society  of  Motion  Picture 
and  Television  Engineers.  The  current  issue 
of  the  Society's  Journal  features  a  special 
section  on  recent  principal  developments 
in  film-handling  equipment.  Much  of  the 
equipment  illustrated  was  credited  to  the 
Hollywood  Film  Equipment  Co. 


1945 
JOHN  P.  HYDE  has  been  appointed  as 
vice  president  and  general  manager  of  the 
Soda  Products  Division,  at  Diamond 
Shamrock  Chemical  Company,  Cleveland, 
Ohio.  Previously  \he  served  as  general 
manager  of  the  division.  He  joined  the 
company  in  1951  as  a  staff  process  engi- 
neer, moving  up  to  manager  of  operations, 
Soda-Chrome  Products,  by  1963.  He  was 
named  general  manager  in  1  970. 


1946 

JOHN  C.  METZGER,  JR.,  has  been 
appointed  assistant  general  manager  of  the 
du  Pont  Company's  Polymer  Intermediates 
Department,  Wilmington,  Del.  He  has  been 
director  of  the  Fluorocarbons  Division  of 
the  Plastics  Department  since  January. 
Previously,  when  du  Pont  undertook  the 
Savannah  River  Project,  he  was  assigned 


as  manufacturing  supervisor  at  the  heavy- 
water  production  facilities  at  the  Dana 
plant  in  Newport,  Ind.  Since  joining  the 
company  in  1946,  he  has  also  been  asso- 
ciated with  the  Organic  Chemicals  Depart- 
ment, Development  Department,  Building 
Products  Division,  and  Poromeric  Products 
Division  of  the  Fabrics  and  Finishes  De- 
partment. .  .  .  RICHARD  F.  PROPST  holds 
the  position  of  manager-product  develop- 
ment and  marketing,  at  Maydwell  & 
Hartzell,  Inc.,  San  Francisco,  Calif.  .  .  . 
D ELBERT  E.  WALTON  is  currently  a  self- 
employed  sales  representative  in  London, 
England. 


1948 

BRUCE  NAGLER  has  been  appointed 
as  divisional  superintendent  of  the  Water 
Department  in  Needham,  Mass.  Previously 
he  was  employed  by  Metcalf  &  Eddy.  .  .  . 
R.  J.  VENTRES  has  been  named  a  group 
vice  president  of  the  Chemical  Division  of 
Borden,  Inc.,  Leominster,  Mass.  He  will  be 
responsible  for  the  division's  thermo- 
plastics, petrochemicals,  and  organic 
chemicals  operations. 


1949 

FRED  BESSELIEVRE  is  a  design  engi- 
neer with  North  American  Rockwell,  Los 
Angeles,  Calif RICHARD  J.  COUGH- 
LIN  was  recently  appointed  director  of 
stores  and  services  in  Boston  Edison 
Company's  newly  formed  Procurement 
Service  and  Commercial  Organization.  He 
started  his  career  with  the  Company  in 
1949.  In  1961  he  became  the  Laboratory's 
chief,  and  just  prior  to  his  latest  promotion, 
he  was  assistant  superintendent  of  engi- 
neering. .  .  .  ROBERT  E.  MILLER  has  been 
named  general  superintendent  of  opera- 
tions for  the  Connecticut  Light  and  Power 
Co.  Most  recently  he  was  superintendent 
of  transmission  and  distribution  at  Berlin. 
Prior  to  that  he  was  division  superintendent 
at  Waterbury  and  at  CL  &  P's  Northern 
division.  .  .  .  HERBERT  M.  PETTEE  has 
been  appointed  to  the  post  of  chief  engi- 
neer at  Fowler  Products  Company  (soft 
drink  machinery  suppliers)  in  Athens,  Ga. 
He  will  be  concerned  with  the  engineering 
and  manufacturing  of  a  high  speed  de- 
capping  machine  for  the  removal  of 
aluminum  screw  caps  from  the  returnable 
thread  finish  soft  drink  bottles. . . .  DONALD 
V.  SHATTUCK  is  now  division  general 
manager  for  Ingersoll-Rand  Co.,  Wood- 
cliff  Lake,  N.J WILLIAM  G.  SLOANE 

has  been  appointed  as  associate  campaign 
chairman  for  the  1 973  United  Way  Appeal 
in  Kingston,  N.Y.  He  is  vice  president  of 
manufacturing  for  Rotron,  Inc.  .  .  .  NOR- 
MAN F.  TAYLOR  is  vice  president  of 
TADCO  Construction  Co.,  Inc.,  Jackson- 
ville, Fla STEPHEN  J.  UCICH  was  co- 
ordinator of  the  Democratic  Town  Com- 
mittee which  supported  the  candidacies  of 
McGovern  and  Shriver  in  the  Wethersfield, 
Conn.,  area.  He  is  a  mathematics  teacher 
at  Hartford  Public  High  School  and  a 
former  member  of  the  Wethersfield  School 
Building  Committee. 


1950 

LT.  COL.  AHARON  AHARONIAN 
(USAF)  currently  serves  as  deputy  chief, 
Systems  Definition  Directorate,  deputy  for 
reentry  systems,  at  Los  Angeles  Air  Force 
Station.  .  .  .  The  New  England  Telephone 
and  Telegraph  Co.,  Boston,  employs 
STUART  G.  LEONARD,  JR.,  as  a  technical 
services  engineer.  .  .  .  HAMMOND 
ROBERTSON,  JR.,  has  been  named 
general  manager  of  Mechanical  Electrical 

Systems,  Inc.,  Glens  Falls,  N.Y PHILIP 

A.  WILD  is  now  assistant  manager  of 
marketing  at  Stone  &  Webster  Engineering 
Corp.,  Boston. 

1951 

HUGH  C.  LOVELL  is  assistant  purchas- 
ing agent  at  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  & 
Co.,  Wilmington,  Del. . . .  DEWEY  R.  LUND 
is  assistant  pump  products  manager  at 
Duriron  Co.,  Inc.,  Dayton,  Ohio. 

1952 

ELLIOTT  W.  LEWIS  has  been  elected  to 
the  Board  of  Directors  of  Stellar  Industries, 
Inc.,  Newport  Beach,  Calif.  He  is  president 
of  Stellar  Housewares  Division. 

1953 

THEODORE  C.  FRITZ  is  now  director  of 
product  development  in  the  corporate 
research  and  development  division  of  the 
Armstrong  Rubber  Co.,  New  Haven,  Conn. 
Previously  he  was  employed  by  The 
Goodyear  Tire  &  Rubber  Co.  and  Kelly- 
Springfield  Co....  MARSHALL  J.  KIDDER 
is  a  research  chemist  for  Philips  Labora- 
tories, Briarcliff  Manor,  N.Y HERBERT 

P.  NARBESHUBER  is  general  manager  of 
Bauer  Gearmotors,  Ltd.,  and  is  presently 
located  in  Oakville,  Ontario,  Canada. 

1954 

OTTO  A.  WAHLRAB  was  recently 
named  chairman  of  the  Massachusetts 
Republican  State  Committee.  He  is  vice 
president  of  the  John  P.  Slade  and  Son 
Insurance  Agency,  Inc.,  Fall  River. 

1955 

CHARLES  F.  McDONOUGH  has  been 
appointed  chairman  of  the  Merchant's 
Department  of  the  1 973  United  Fund  in  the 
Somerset  Valley  region  of  New  Jersey. 
He  is  currently  manager  of  sales  develop- 
ment at  American  Cyanamid  Co.  in  Bound 
Brook. . . .  ROBERT  J.  SCHULTZ,  professor 
of  civil  engineering,  has  been  named  out- 
standing teacher  in  the  School  of  Engi- 
neering at  Oregon  State  University  for 
1972.  In  1966  he  was  one  of  47  OSU  pro- 
fessors to  receive  $1,000  merit  awards  for 
teaching  excellence.  Schultz,  who  is  con- 
sidered a  national  authority  in  surveying 
and  photogrammetry,  has  been  chairman 
for  a  National  Surveying  Teachers  Confer- 
ence, American  Society  for  Engineering 
Education. 


1956 

ROBERT  S.  ALLEN  is  a  partner  in  AJIen- 
Herzol  Associates,  Framingham,  Mass. 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


23 


Chairs 

Aren't  Always  to  Sit  In 

.  .  .  but  we  have  some 
of  those,  too! 

The  Tech  Chair 

carefully  made  from  selected  hardwoods,  with  the 
WPI  seal  applied  by  hand. 

Send  your  order,  and  make  checks  payable  to,  WPI 
Bookstore,  Daniels  Hall,  Worcester,  Mass.  01609. 
Massachusetts  residents  must  add  3%  sales  tax. 

Prices  are  F.O.B.  Gardner,  Mass.  Chairs  are  shipped 
express  collect. 


NOTE: 

By  March  1st,  1973,  the 
WPI  side  chair  will  no 
longer  be  available,  as  the 
manufacturer  is  discon- 
tinuing it.  If  you  have  been 
thinking  of  getting  one  or 
more  (they  make  fine  din- 
ing room  chairs),  act  now! 
This  is  really  your  last 
chance. 


WPI  Side  Chair  $29.00  (No.  341 -214) 

WPI  Arm  Chair  (black  arms)  $45.00  (No.  342-214) 

WPI  Arm  Chair  (cherry  arms)  $46.00  (No.  342-218) 

WPI  Boston  Rocker  $37.00  (No.  183-214) 


Tradition  Takes  a  Step 
into  Time 

with  the  WPI  "Traditional"  Clock 


Custom  designed,  hand  crafted  and  hand 
screened,  this  beautiful  wail  clock  has  a  battery- 
operated  movement  (takes  one  size  D  battery). 
Size  is  20  inches  high,  11  inches  wide,  and  2Va 
inches  deep.  $37.95  delivered  anywhere  within 
the  continental  United  States. 

Send  your  order,  and  make  checks  payable  to, 
WPI  Bookstore,  Daniels  Hall,  Worcester,  Mass. 
01609.  Massachusetts  residents  must  add  3% 
sales  tax. 


24 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


How  to  call 
a  stereo  buff's 

bluff. 


A  buff  will  probably  tell  you  you've  got  to  drop 
a  bundle  to  get  a  really  great  stereo  system. 

Nonsense. 

Stereo  is  all  in  the  ear.  It's  how  it  sounds, 
not  how  it  costs,  that  makes  a  stereo  system 
great. 

So  next  time  some  buff  handsyou  that  old  line 
■call  his  bluff.  See  if  he  can  figure  out  how  much 
you  paid  foryourSylvania  matched  component 
stereo  system.  Just  by  listening. 

Pick  your  favorite  record.  Put  it 
on  the  BSR  micro-mini  turntable. 
(If  tape's  your  thing,  slip  one  into 
the  8-track  cartridge  playback.) 

Then  balance  the  bassand 
treble  on  the  FM  stereo 
FM  /AM  tuner 
and  amplifier. 
And  let 
ihim  have  it. 

Make  sure  he 
digs  those  round 
low  notes  from  the 
two  six-inch  woofers. 
And  those  high  sweet 
ones  from  the  two 
three-inch  tweeters. 
They're  all  air- 
suspension  speakers, 
so  they  sound  as  good  as  standard 
speakers  two  sizes  larger. 

Your  buff  won't  have  a  chance.  He'll  stand 
there,  surrounded  by  sound,  completely  bluffed 
Trying  like  crazy  to  figure  out  how  much  you  laid 
out  for  a  stereo  that  sounds  that  great. 

But  don't  tell  him. 

After  all,  you  just  want  to  call  his  bluff.  Not  destroy  his  ego 


fnT3  SVLVANIA 


1957 

ALLAN  E.  CARLSON  is  now  assistant 
manager,  thin  film  devices,  Western  Elec- 
tric Co.,  North  Andover,  Mass ROBERT 

P.  ENGVALL  holds  the  position  of  super- 
intendent, production  services,  at  Astra 
Pharmaceutical,  Worcester. . . .  EDWARD  L. 
GALLINI  is  a  project  engineer  at  Acushnet 
Co.,  Golf  Division,  Acushnet,  Mass.  .  .  . 
HARRY  DER  HAROOTUNIAN  serves  as 
manager-director  of  Food  Service  System 

at  Norton  Co.,  Worcester LEONARD  L. 

KRASNOW  is  a  self-employed  consultant 
in  Worcester.  ...  DR.  FREDERICK  P. 
MERTENS,  a  physical  chemist,  has  been 
transferred  from  Texaco's  Beacon  (N.Y) 
Research  Laboratories  to  Port  Arthur  Re- 
search Laboratories  in  Texas.  He  joined 
Texaco  in  1964  and  has  held  a  succession 
of  assignments  in  fundamental,  catalysis, 
and  surface  chemistry  research.  At  Port 
Arthur  he  will  be  engaged  in  corrosion  and 
metallurgical  research  as  a  project  chemist. 
.  .  .  THEODORE  F.  ROE  is  an  associate 
electrical  engineer  at  Cornell  Aeronautical 
Laboratory,  Inc.,  Buffalo,  N.Y. . . .  WILLIAM 
C.  ROGLER  serves  as  an  inventory  control 
and  planning  manager  at  Monsanto  Co., 
Creve  Coeur,  Mo. 

1958 

Army  Reserve  CAPT.  ANDREW  A. 
SZYPULA  recently  completed  the  first 
phase  of  the  associate  logistics  executive 
development  course  for  reserve  compo- 
nents at  the  Army  Logistics  Management 
Center,  Ft.  Lee,  Va.  He  is  employed  as  an 
assistant  technical  manager  by  Bethlehem 
Steel  Corp.,  Marine  Division,  Sparrows 
Point,  Md.  .  .  .  PETER  J.  OTTOWITZ  is 
president  of  Glamour  Care,  Inc.,  Hudson, 
Mass. 

1959 

THOMAS  J.  DOWNS  has  been  pro- 
moted to  college  employment  supervisor 
by  Southern  New  England  Telephone, 
New  Haven,  Conn.  He  joined  the  company 
in  1959  as  an  assistant  engineer  and  was 
construction  supervisor  in  Waterbury  at 
the  time  of  his  recent  promotion.  .  .  . 
ROGER  E.  MILLER  resigned  from  his  posi- 
tion with  Radiation  Incorporated  last  year 
and  went  to  Brazil  where  he  did  inde- 
pendent missionary  work.  Back  in  the  U.S. 
he  is  now  preparing  to  enter  a  seminary 
to  become  an  Episcopal  priest.  .  .  .  LEE  D. 
SMITH,  JR.,  is  assistant  to  the  production 
manager  at  du  Pont,  Wilmington,  Del.  .  .  . 
MA'J.  ROBERT  D.  SMITH  currently  serves 
as  a  staff  development  engineer  at  the  U.S. 
Air  Force  Development  Center  in  Rome, 
N.Y.  .  .  .  JOHN  E.  WOLFE  has  joined 
Adams  Russell  Co.,  Inc.,  Waltham,  Mass., 
as  business  manager. 


1960 
Married:  JOHN  W.  BIDDLE  and  Miss 
Susan  M.  Jones  on  August  19,  1972  in 
Worcester.  Mrs.  Biddle  was  a  personnel 
assistant  at  Worcester  County  National 
Bank.  Her  husband  is  a  superintendent  in 
the  engineering  and  construction  services 
division  of  Norton  Co. 


LAWRENCE  C.  BERGER  serves  as  a 
research  engineer  at  Mechanics  Research 
Institute,  McLean,  Va.  .  .  .  DR.  ROBERT 
A.  CONDRATE,  associate  professor  of 
spectroscopy  at  the  New  York  State 
College  of  Ceramics,  Alfred  University, 
Alfred,  N.Y.,  was  invited  to  present  a 
technical  paper  in  his  field  at  the  3rd 
International  Conference  on  Raman  Spec- 
troscopy Sept.  8-13  in  Reims,  France.  His 
paper  presented  the  results  of  spectro- 
scopic research  on  chemical  compounds 
known  as  zirconates.  His  trip  was  partially 
underwritten  by  a  National  Science  Foun- 
dation grant,  and  he  served  as  the  NSF's 
official  observer  at  the  Reims  conference. 
Currently  he  is  on  leave  of  absence  from 
Alfred  to  the  Los  Alamos  National  Labo- 
ratory in  New  Mexico.  .  .  .  RICHARD  A. 
KISCHELL,  a  senior  engineer  at  Southern 
New  England  Telephone  Co.,  is  serving  as 
a  loaned  executive  in  the  United  Way's 
campaign  in  New  Haven,  Conn.  .  .  . 
KENNETH  L.  MATSON  has  received  his 
MBA  from  Rider  College,  Lawrenceville, 
N.J.  He  is  district  superintendent  of  the 
Hudson  Gas  District,  Public  Service  Elec- 
tric &  Gas  Co.  of  New  Jersey EDWARD 

J.  SAPPET  is  manager,  photofabrication, 
at  Radiation,  Melbourne,  Fla. 

1961 

STEPHEN  B.  BRODYworksasa  process 
engineer  for  Southeastern-Kusan,  Green- 
ville, S.C DR.  HAROLD  A.  CHRISTO- 
PHER has  been  promoted  to  liaison 
scientist  at  theResearch  and  Development 
Center,  General  Electric  Company,  Sche- 
nectady, N.Y.  He  will  be  responsible  for  a 
two-way  flow  of  information  between 
G.E.'s  components  and  materials  group 
and  the  Center.  Previously  he  was  the 
principal  investigator  and  contract  program 
manager  of  several  government-sponsored 
R&D  battery  programs. 

1962 

ANTHONY  R.  BIANCANIELLO  recently 
received  his  MBA  from  Harvard.  .  .  .  DR.  K. 
H.  COTTER  is  a  member  of  the  C-5  Review 
Team  for  the  USAF,  Wright- Patterson  AFB, 

Ohio DR.  MICHAEL  E.  GORDON  is  a 

scientist  at  Polaroid,  Cambridge,  Mass.  .  .  . 
DAVID  LYONS  has  been  presented  the 
Kenneth  B.  Allen  Award  by  the  New  York 
Water  Pollution  Control  Association.  His 
prize-winning  technical  paper  was  en- 
titled: "The  Methodology  For  Solving  A 
Food  Processing  Plant's  Wastewater  Treat- 
ment Problems".  He  is  employed  by  the 
USEPA  as  Chief  of  the  Wood  and  Other 
Products  Section — Effluent  Guidelines  and 
Standards  Development. 

1963 

ANTHONY  E.  ALLEGREZZA,  JR.,  has 
received  his  Doctorate  in  Chemical  Engi- 
neering from  the  University  of  Massachu- 
setts. He  is  now  associated  with  the  re- 
search department  of  the  University  of 
Wisconsin  at  Madison.  .  .  .  JOSEPH  V. 
BUCCIAGLIA  has  been  named  superin- 
tendent of  chemical  production  for  the 
Uniroyal  Chemical  plant,  Naugatuck,  Conn 
Previously  he  was  general  foreman  of  the 


26 


chemical  facilities  which  manufacture 
chemicals  for  the  rubber  and  plastic  indus- 
tries and  chemicals  for  agriculture.  .  .  . 
TIMOTHY  M.  SHEA  is  a  project  planner  at 
Westinghouse  Electric,  New  York  City.  .  .  . 
MARVIN  F.  WOODILLA  is  a  high  school 
physics  teacher  in  Laconia,  N.H. 

1964 

Married:  GERALD  E.  TAMMI  and  Miss 
Patricia  Eve  Assad  in  Worcester  on  July 
23,  1972.  Mrs.  Tammi,  a  teacher,  is  doing 
graduate  work  at  San  Jose  State  College 
in  California.  Her  husband  is  manager  of 
automotive  production  engineering  at 
Fairchild  Semiconductor  Co.,  Mountain 
View,  Calif. 

PETER  BAKER  is  chief  of  engineering, 

AMPAC,  Bangkok,  Thailand WILLIAM 

C.  KRANS  is  a  senior  programmer  at 
American  Optical,  Southbridge,  Mass. 

1965 

Married:  JAMES  A.  KEITH  to  Miss 
Nancy  J.  Morgan  in  Georgetown,  Maine 
on  August  12,  1972.  The  bride  is  a  regis- 
tered dietitian.  Her  husband  is  a  senior 
design  engineer  with  Sanders  Associates, 
Nashua,  N.H. . . .  JOHN  J.  VYTALand  Miss 
Linda  H.  Vytal  last  summer  in  Cambridge, 
Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Vytal  is  a  Bridgewater 
State  College  graduate. 

ROBERT  H.  CAHILL  has  received  his 
master's  degree  from  the  Wharton  School 
of  Finance  &  Commerce,  University  of 
Pennsylvania.  Previously  he  served  in  the 
Seabees  as  a  company  commander  in 
Vietnam  and  later  as  the  aide  to  a   Rear 

Admiral PETER  D.  CHRISTENSEN  is  a 

science  and  math  teacher  at  Lake  Region 
High  School,  Bridgton,  Me.  .  .  .  DAVID  S. 
CLAYTON  is  an  investment  banker  with 
Piper,  Jaffray  &  Hopwood,  Minneapolis, 
Minn.  .  .  .  JOHN  T.  HART  is  a  product 
support  engineer  for  Hewlett  Packard, 
Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  .  JOHN  F.  HENDRICK- 
SON  presently  holds  the  post  of  depart- 
ment chief  at  Western  Electric  Co.,  Greens- 
boro, N.C.  .  .  .  JOHN  P.  JACOBSON  has 
been  employed  as  an  assistant  marine 
scientist  at  Virginia  Institute  of  Marine 
Science,  Gloucester  Point,  Va.  He  recently 
received  his  MS  in  Ocean  Engineering 
from  the  University  of  Massachusetts.  .  .  . 
RONALD  R.  SCHULTZ  is  a  software 
engineer     for     Texas     Instruments,     Inc., 

Houston,  Tex EUGENE  G.  SWEENEY, 

JR.,  is  now  area  manager  for  the  Dow 
Industrial  Service  Division  of  the  Dow 
Chemical  Co.,  Richmond,  Va. . . .  RUSSELL 
B.  TRASK  is  currently  an  electronics  engi- 
neer at  Sperry  Gyroscope  Co.,  Great  Neck, 
LI.,  N.Y. 

1966 
CAPT.  HOWARD  J.  BRALEY  has  been 
graduated  from  the  Air  University's  Squad- 
ron Officer  School  at  Maxwell  AFB, 
Alabama.  He  is  presently  assigned  to 
Patrick  AFB,  Fla.,  as  a  special  development 

engineer WILLIAM  V.  COLLENTRO  is 

a  lead  engineer/site  chemistry  and  shielding 
at  GE's  Knolls  Atomic  Power  Lab,  Windsor, 
Conn.   .   .   .   CARL   E.   HELLSTROM   is  a 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


senior  planner,  Planning  and  Community 
:  Development,  for  the  City  of  Worcester.  .  .  . 
j  LAWRENCE  E.  PIHL  has  received  his  MBA 
jfrom  Northeastern  University,  Boston.  He 
is  employed  by  Raytheon  in  Bedford, 
Mass.  .  .  .  STUART  R.  ROSELLE  is  a 
mechanical  engineer  (Projects)  for  the 
South  Carolina  Public  Service  Authority. . . . 
JTHOMAS  SHEPELRICH  is  a  project  co- 
ordinator at  J.  A.  Jones  Construction  Co., 
jTampa,  Fla. . . .  PETER  K.  SOMMER  has  re- 
ceived his  Juris  Doctor  from  American 
University,  Washington,  D.C.  He  is  a 
patent  attorney  with  Sommer  &  Weber, 
Buffalo,  N.Y.  .  .  .  ROBERT  C.  ZAHNKE  is 
technical  supervisor  at  Allied  Chemical 
Corp.,  Morristown,  N.J. 

1967 

Married:  RICHARD  A.  ORMSBEE  to 
Miss  Irene  R.  Thomas  on  August  12  in 
Floral  Park,  N.Y.  Mrs.  Ormsbee  is  an  ex- 
ecutive secretary  at  Best  Foods  where  her 
husband  is  a  research  chemist. 

ROGER  V.  BARTHOLOMEW  is  a  novice 
in  the  Society  of  Jesus,  New  Orleans,  La., 

Province STEPHEN  B.  COTTER  serves 

as  a  pilot  in  the  Maine  Air  National  Guard. 
.  .  .  PHILIPPE  P.  COUSTEAU  is  director, 
chief  photographer  and  diver  for  "The 
Undersea  World  of  Jacques  Yves 
Cousteau".  (His  father  is  the  famed 
oceanographer  and  co-inventor  of  the 
aqualung.)  In  1966,  after  training  in  cine- 
matography, Philippe  became  the  director 
of  his  father's  Paris-based  film  production 
corporation,  Les  Requins  Associes,  of 
which  he  is  today  vice  president.  .  .  . 
CARMEN  DELLA  VECCHIA  is  a  sales 
representative  for  Procter  and  Gamble 
Distributing  Co.,  Jacksonville,  Fla.  .  .  . 
RICHARD  F.  DEFALCO  is  currently  an 
engineering  consultant  and  president  of 
the  National  Environmental  Planning  and 
Control  Corp.  (NEPCC)  of  Worcester.  .  .  . 
CHARLES  N.  DIMAN  is  a  project  engineer 

for  W.  R.  Grace  &  Co.,  Burlington,  Mass 

JOHN  B.  FELDMAN  received  his  MS 
degree  in  Environmental  Health  from 
Harvard  last  June.  .  .  .  JOSEPH  F.  GOUL- 
ART  who  built  Indra,  the  fiberglass-bodied, 
mid-engine  sports  car  described  in  the 
October  1 971  Journal,  has  moved  to 
Michigan  where  he  is  a  project  engineer, 
environmental  systems,  at  the  General 
Motors  Proving  Ground.  .  .  .  RICHARD  C. 
HOLLER  who  is  presently  completing  his 
MS  in  Computer  Science  at  WPI,  has 
employment  as  a  systems  analyst  at 
Hooker  Chemical  Corp.,  Niagara  Falls, 
N.Y.  .  .  .  BRADFORD  A.  JOHNSON  is  a 
recovery  systems  engineer  at  Goodyear 
Aerospace  Corp.,  Akron,  Ohio.  .  .  .  CAPT. 
PETER  W.  MULLIN  has  received  the  Air 
Force  Commendation  Medal  at  Los 
Angeles  Air  Force  Station,  Calif.  He  was 
decorated  for  meritorious  service  as  a 
:project  engineer  while  assigned  to  the 
iSpecial  Projects  Program  Office  at  Hans- 
corn  Field,  Mass CALVIN  E.  PHILLIPS 

is  with  the  Nuclear  Energy  Division  of 
General  Electric  at  San  Jose,  Calif.  .  .  . 
HOWARD  H.  SHORE  recently  received  his 
Juris  Doctor  from  the  University  of  San 
Diego  (Calif.)  Law  School.  He  is  spending 


KEEPING  UP  WITH  THE  PATELS 

If  you  took  a  wild  guess  about  the  most  common  last  name  among  WPI 
alumni,  you'd  probably  say  Smith  or  Jones.  Well,  Smith  it  is,  with  92  alumni 
Smiths. 

But  restrict  the  time  period  to  the  last  ten  years,  including  current  students, 
and  the  odds  are  you'd  never  guess  the  most  common  name.  It's  Patel.  It 
seems  that  since  1966  WPI  has  graduated  46  Patels,  and  there  are  18  cur- 
rently studying  at  the  Institute. 

The  Patels  all  come  from  west-central  India,  and  many  recent  students 
may  have  wondered  about  this  parade,  how  they  found  their  way  to  WPI, 
halfway  around  the  world. 

No  one  really  knows  for  sure,  but  Pratim  Patel,  '72,  thinks  he  might  have 
the  answer. 

"It  probably  has  something  to  do  with  what  happened  generations  ago  in 
India,"  he  says.  "Originally  all  the  Patels  were  part  of  a  caste  that  consisted 
mainly  of  small  farmers  and  businessmen.  They  lived  in  or  near  small  villages. 
The  head  of  each  village  was  called  a  Mukhi,  or  Patel. 

"Gradually  they  prospered  and  many  left  India  to  take  over  larger  businesses 
in  England,  Singapore,  Hong  Kong,  and  the  African  countries  of  Kenya  and 
Uganda.  Uganda,"  he  explained,  "is  where  many  of  the  foreign  businessmen, 
including  Patels,  are  being  sent  out  of  the  country." 

He  went  on  to  say  that  as  the  Patels  improved  their  lot  in  life  they  saw  to  it 
that  they  did  the  best  they  could  for  their  children.  Naturally  that  included 
higher  education  for  the  sons. 

But  why  did  so  many  come  to  WPI? 

"The  vast  majority  of  Patels  are  graduate  students,"  he  explained.  "But 
even  at  graduate  schools  on  other  campuses,  I'd  almost  guarantee  that  about 
40  percent  of  the  Indian  students  are  named  Patel,"  he  said. 

Are  the  Patels  all  related? 

He  laughed.  "No,"  he  replied.  "I'm  living  with  three  other  Patels  on  West 
St.  right  now  and  none  of  us  are  related.  Patel  is  a  very  common  name  in  the 
Indian  state  of  Gujarat.  Practically  everyone  there  is  called  Patel." 

How  had  he  personally  heard  of  WPI? 

"My  father  comes  to  this  country  almost  every  year  and  when  he's  here 
he  usually  visits  an  American  friend  in  Leominster,"  he  said.  "That  is  how 
we  heard  of  WPI  and  why  I  transferred  from  St.  Xavier's  in  Bombay  a  couple 
of  years  ago. 

"That  Leominster  family  treats  me  almost  like  their  own  son,"  he  continued. 
"I  can  visit  them  any  time  I  wish  and  they  make  me  feel  welcome." 

Do  he  and  the  other  Patels  go  back  to  India  for  a  visit  while  they  are  studying 
in  this  country? 

"No,"  he  replied.  "It  costs  our  families  about  $4,500  a  year  to  send  each 
one  of  us  here,  so  while  we're  at  WPI  we  stay." 

He  said  that  the  average  yearly  income  of  many  families  he  knew  was 
about  1 5,000  rupees.  "It  costs  35,000  rupees  to  send  a  son  to  WPI,"  he  said, 
"so  most  of  the  Indian  students  have  to  be  quite  well  off  financially." 

Pratim  Patel  is  a  very  articulate  young  man  who  since  graduating  in  June 
has  taken  up  graduate  study  in  the  chemical  engineering  department  at  WPI. 
Currently  he  is  working  on  a  hydrogenation  of  sugar  project. 

"I  would  like  to  be  able  to  get  a  job  in  this  country,  just  for  the  experience, 
before  returning  to  India.  But  at  present  U.S.  laws  forbid  it,"  he  says. 

Even  though  this  door  to  opportunity  is  presently  closed  to  him,  Patel 
returns,  not  too  unhappily,  to  his  sugar  project.  There  will  be  a  time,  later, 
for  experience. 

Meanwhile,  the  ever-growing  parade  of  Patels  keeps  knocking  at  the  door 
of  opportunity  that  is  open  to  all  of  them — a  WPI  education. 


IE  WPI  JOURNAL 


27 


the  1972-73  academic  year  at  London 
School  of  Economics  and  Political  Science, 
working  toward  his  Master  of  Laws  in 
International  Law. 

1968 

Married:  FRANCIS  L.  ADDESSIO  to 
Miss  Barbara  Anne  Kobelka  on  July  22  in 
Little  Falls,  N.J.  The  bride  attended 
Bethany  (W.  Va.)  College.  Her  husband  is 
currently  a  candidate  for  his  PhD  in  jet 
propulsion  at  Purdue  University,  La- 
fayette, Indiana JOHN  J.  KOKOSZKA 

to  Miss  Ingeborg  Elaine  Karen  Kobashigawa 
on  July  1,  1972  in  Aberdeen,  Maryland. 
The  groom  is  an  area  engineer  (engineering 
division)  for  Eastman  Kodak  Company, 
Kodak  Park,  Rochester,  N.Y.  .  .  .  ROBERT 
T.  PLEINES  and  Miss  Susan  A.  Morrissey 
on  August  12,1 972  in  Auburn,  Massachu- 
setts. Mrs.  Pleines  is  a  teacher.  Her  husband 
is  with  Monsanto  Co.,  Springfield.  .  .  . 
PAUL  W.  REMIJAN  and  Miss  Paulette  E. 
Lucier  in  Fiskdale,  Massachusetts  on 
September  2, 1 972.  The  bride  is  a  graduate 
of  St.  Vincent  Hospital  School  of  Nursing, 
Worcester.  The  groom,  who  has  received  a 
master's  degree  in  optical  science  from  the 
University  of  Arizona  in  Tucson,  is  cur- 
rently attending  the  University  of  Rochester 
in  New  York. 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  RONALD  E. 
JODOIN  a  daughter,  Christine  Marie,  on 
March  28,  1972.  Ron  is  now  working  for 
his  PhD  in  Physics  at  the  University  of 
Rochester. 

WARREN  BENTLEY  serves  on  the  In- 
formation Systems  Staff  at  Western  Elec- 
tric, Cockeysville,  Md. . . .  JOHN  M.  BURNS 
is  a  law  student  at  the  University  of  San 
Diego,  Calif.  He  is  also  associate  engineer 

at  San  Diego  Gas  &  Electric  Co DAVID 

A.  FARR  is  a  civil  engineer  at  Hamilton 
Engineering  Associates,  Nashua,  N.H.  .  .  . 
GEORGE  F.  GAMACHE  has  been  ap- 
pointed project  engineer  in  the  construction 
department  of  Star  Markets.  .  .  .  DAVID  L. 
GRADWELL  is  currently  an  industry 
development  analyst  for  IBM  in  Kansas 
City.  .  .  .  RICHARD  HAMPSON  is  now  a 
senior  associate  engineer  at  IBM  Corp., 
Endicott,  N.Y.  .  .  .  PHILLIP  LaROE,  who 
recently  received  his  master's  in  physics  at 
Rice    University,   is  a   science  teacher  at 


Yutan  (Neb.)  High  School.  .  .  .  LOUIS 
MANONI  has  employment  with  the  De- 
fense Communications  Agency,  The  Pen- 
tagon, Washington,  D.C.  He  is  a  mathema- 
tician. .  .  .  DAVID  MOORE  is  a  teacher  at 
Nashoba  Regional  High  School,  Bolton, 
Mass.  .  .  .  SUNG  I.  PAIK  is  a  mechanical 
design  engineer  at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Air- 
craft, East  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  J. 
RASKU,  who  was  recently  married  to  Miss 
Mary  Jane  Lucas,  is  teaching  chemistry  at 
Wachusett  Regional  High  School,  Holden, 
Mass.  He  has  received  his  Master  of  Edu- 
cation degree  from  Worcester  State  College 
and  a  National  Science  Foundation  grant 
for  the  In-Service  Institute  for  Secondary 
School  teachers  held  at  WPI  in  September. 
.  .  .  FREDERICK  F.  REED  is  a  development 
engineer    at    GTE    Sylvania,    Inc.,    CATV 

Operation,  Seneca  Falls,  N.Y JEFFREY 

E.  SHAW  has  been  named  director  of 
graduate  and  career  plans  at  WPI.  After 
graduating  from  WPI,  he  received  a 
master's  degree  in  metallurgy  and  materials 
science  from  Lehigh  University.  For  four 
years  he  has  been  a  development  engineer 
for  Western  Electric  Co.  Shaw  succeeds 
William  F.  Trask,  who  was  recently  named 
associate  dean  of  student  affairs.  .  .  . 
ROBERT  SMITH  and  wife,  Alice,  set  sail 
from  Shelburne  Bay  in  Vermont  on 
September  1  "to  see  the  world's  people 
and  places."  They  are  crewing  their  own 
Hinckley  36.  Bob,  who  is  on  leave  from  his 
job  at  IBM,  says  they  may  purchase  a 
larger  boat  when  they  reach  the  Caribbean. 
.  .  .  E.  WAYNE  TURNBLOM  has  received 
his  PhD  in  organic  chemistry  from  Colum- 
bia University.  He  joined  the  faculty  of 
Princeton  University  in  September  as  an 
instructor  in  organic  chemistry.  Recently 
he  traveled  to  Heidelberg  where  he  con- 
ducted research  and  to  Brussels  where  he 
delivered  a  talk  as  the  recipient  of  a  Louis 
P.  Hammett  Fellowship. 

1969 

Married:  RONALD  L.  JONES  to  Miss 
Wanda  Lee  Barkhurst  in  Fayetteville,  North 
Carolina  on  August  19,  1972.  The  bride- 
groom is  a  candidate  for  a  master's  degree 
in  business  administration  at  the  University 

of  Hartford RON  L.  WENDELKEN  and 

Miss  Jane  Lester  on  August  4,  in  Buxton, 


MORGAN 

CONSTRUCTION  COMPANY 


15  Belmont  Street,  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 

Serving  the  Ferrous  and  Non-Ferrous  World  Markets  since  1888  as 
Engineers  and  Manufacturers  of  Rolling  Mills,  Morgoil  Bearings, 
Wire  Drawing  Machinery  and  Furnace  Equipment 


STATEMENT   OF    OWNERSHIP, 
MANAGEMENT   AND    CIRCULATION 

(Act  of  October  23,  1962:  Section  4369, 
Title  39,  United  States  Code) 
1.  Date  of  filing.  September  29,  1972.  2.  Title  of 
publication.  WPI  JOURNAL.  3.  Frequency  of  issue. 
Five  times  per  year  (October,  December,  February, 
April  and  August).  4.  Location  of  known  office  of 
publication  (Street,  city,  county,  state,  zip  code). 
Institute  Road,  Worcester,  Worcester,  Massachusetts 
01609.  5.  Location  of  the  headquarters  or  general 
business  offices  of  the  publishers  (Not  printers). 
Institute  Road,  Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609. 
6.  Names  and  addresses  of  publisher,  editor,  and 
managing  editor.  Publisher  (Name  and  address), 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester,  Massa- 
chusetts 01609.  Editor  (Name  and  address).  H. 
Russell  Kay,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute, 
Worcester,  Mass.  01609.  Managing  Editor  (Name 
and  address).  None.  7.  Owner  (If  owned  by  a 
corporation,  its  name  and  address  must  be  stated 
and  also  immediately  thereunder  the  names  and 
addresses  of  stockholders  owning  or  holding  1  per- 
cent or  more  of  total  amount  of  stock.  If  not  owned 
by  a  corporation,  the  names  and  addresses  of  the 
individual  owners  must  be  given.  If  owned  by  a 
partnership  or  other  unincorporated  firm,  its  name 
and  address,  as  well  as  that  of  each  individual  must 
be  given.)  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,  Worces- 
ter, Massachusetts  01609.  8.  Known  bondholders, 
mortgagees,  and  other  security  holders  owning  or 
holding  1  percent  or  more  of  total  amount  of  bonds, 
mortgages  or  other  securities  (If  there  are  none,  so 
state).  None.  9.  For  completion  by  nonprofit  organi- 
zations authorized  to  mail  at  special  rates  (Section 
132.122,  Postal  Manual).  The  purpose,  function, 
and  nonprofit  status  of  this  organization  and  the 
exempt  status  for  Federal  income  tax  purposes  have 
not  changed  during  preceding  12  months.  (If 
changed,  publisher  must  submit  explanation  of 
change  with  this  statement.)  10.  Extent  and  nature 
of  circulation. 


Actual  Number 
Average  No.         of  Copies 
Copies  Each        of  Single 
Issue  during  Issue  Published 


Preceding 

Nearest  to 

12  Months 

Filing  Date 

A 

Total  no.  copies 
printed  (Net  press 

run). 

14,049 

15.022 

B. 

Paid  circulation. 
1 .  Salesthrough 
dealersand 
carriers,  street 
vendors  and 

counter  sales. 

0 

0 

2.  Mailsubscriptions. 

1 

0 

C 

Total  paid  circulation 

1 

0 

D 

Free  distribution  by 
mail.carrieror 
other  means. 
1 .  Samples, 
complimentary,  and 

other  free  copies. 

12.787 

13.912 

2.  Copies  distributed 

to  news  agents,  but 

not  sold. 

0 

0 

E. 

Total  distribution 

(SumofCandD). 

12.788 

13,912 

F. 

Officeuse. left-over, 
unaccounted,  spoilec 

after  printing. 

2 

1.110 

G 

Total  (Sumof  E& 
F  — should  equal 

net  press  run 

shownin  A). 

14,049 

15.022 

I  certify  lhat  the  statemonts  modo  by  mo  abovo  aro 
correct  and  complete. 

H.  Russoli  Kay.  Editor 


28 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL  ■ 


Engineering  Ingenuity 

key  to  industrial  progress 


Doubling  production  doesn't  necessarily  have  to 
ouble  cost,  particularly  when  a  little  ingenuity  is 
pplied.  This  two-spindle  attachment,  developed  by  our 
^CRACENTER  engineers,  finishes  two  identical  parts  at 
he  same  time  on  a  Heald  3-axis  N/C  contouring  ACRA- 
, ENTER,  yet  it  increases  the  equipment  cost  by  only  6%, 

The  two-spindle  attachment  is  used  for  numerically 
ontrolled  contour  milling,  drilling,  boring  and  reaming 
>airs  of  identical  parts.  The  unit  itself  can  be  aligned 
vith  either  the  X  or  Y  axis,  can  be  removed  in  a  few 
hinutes  and  the  ACRACEIMTER  again  becomes  a  single 
pindle  machine  for  larger  workpieces. 


1  When  it  comes  to  engineering  ingenuity  ...  it  pays 
io  come  to  Heald  .  .  .  where  metal  working  needs  meet 
'lew  ideas. 


#5Y?Cl''"'  IIMM  ffl 


MILACRON 

Cincinnati  Milacron- Heald  Corp. 
Worcester,  Mass.  01606 


Maine.  The  bride  is  a  graduate  of  Becker 
Junior  College,  Worcester.  Her  husband  is 
associated  with  his  father  as  a  painting 
contractor  in  the  Saco,  Me.,  area. . . .  JOHN 
E.  WILSON,  JR.,  to  Miss  Lynda  Morin  on 
August  13,  1972  in  Easthampton,  Massa- 
chusetts. Mrs.  Wilson  attended  Holyoke 
Community  College. 

NORMAND  L.  BACHAND  has  enrolled 
at  Wayne  State  University,  Detroit,  Mich. 
...  J.  MICHAEL  BOYD  is  a  sales  engineer 
at  James  K.  Boyd  Co.,  East  Providence, 

R.I BRIAN  D.  CHACE  is  with  Sylvania 

Electronic  Systems,  Needham,  Mass.  .  .  . 
JOSEPH  F.  FITZGERALD,  JR.,  has  em- 
ployment as  a  marine  engineer  at  General 
Dynamics,  Quincy,  Mass.  .  .  .  JOHN  S. 
GRANT  is  now  employed  as  a  mechanical 
purchasing  agent  for  Digital  Equipment 
Corporation,  Maynard,  Mass.  .  .  .  JAMES 
T.  HEINRICH  serves  as  regional  sales 
manager  for  Elliot  Company,  Chicago,  III. 
. .  .  DAVID  E.  KILPATRICK  is  with  the  U.S. 
Submarine  Force,  New  London,  Conn.  .  .  . 
JAMES  P.  MILLS  now  has  employment 
with  the  Chassis  Division  of  the  Ford 
Motor  Co.,  Sterling  Heights,  Mich.  This 
year  he  received  his  MS  in  mechanical 
engineering  from  RPI,  Troy,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
ALVIN  B.  PAULY  is  a  process  engineer  for 
Brown  Co.,  Berlin,  N.H.  .  .  .  FREDERICK 
G.  SPRETER  holds  the  position  of  associate 


engineer  at  Bailey  Meter  Co.,  Charlotte, 
N.C.  .  .  .  ROBERT  L.  STESSEL  is  self- 
employed  at  River  Rat  Marine  Radio, 
Danvers,  Mass.  .  .  .  DAVID  A.  ZLOTEK  is  a 
senior  design  engineer  at  GTE  Sylvania, 
Needham  Heights,  Mass. 

1970 

Married:  JAMES  F.  BAG  AG  LI  0  and 
Miss  Janet  Lee  Ceddia  on  August  20, 1  972 
in  Milford,  Massachusetts.  The  groom  is 
working  toward  his  master's  degree  in 
medical  chemistry  at  the  University  of 
Pittsburgh.  . . .  JAMES  F.  CRONIN  to  Miss 
Kathy  Sherlyn  Ann  Landry  on  August  26 
in  Lafayette,  La.  The  bride  is  a  graduate  of 
the  University  of  Southwestern  Louisiana. 
The  bridegroom  is  a  field  representative  for 
Babcock  &  Wilcox  Power  Generation 
Division,  Richardson, Texas.  .  .  .  FRANK  B. 
POPE  to  Miss  Pauline  M.  Willus  last 
summer  in  Medford,  Massachusetts. 
ROLAND  BATSON,  '71,  was  an  usher. 
The  bride  is  a  teacher.  Her  husband  is  with 
Stein  Associates,  Waltham. 

GREGORY  W.  BACKSTROM  has  taken 
a  leave  of  absence  from  Xerox  to  pursue 
an  MBA  at  the  University  of  Michigan  at 
Ann  Arbor.  Prior  to  his  leaving  Xerox,  he 
had  been  promoted  to  quality  control 
engineer.  .  .  .  STEPHEN  E.  BERNACKI  re- 
ceived his  master  of  science  degree  from 


Harvard  University  last  June STEPHEN 

R.  CROSBY  is  a  graduate  student  at  the 
University  of  Connecticut,  Storrs.  .  .  . 
LAWRENCE  B.  COHEN  serves  as  an  intern 
in  the  chemistry  department  at  North  Shore 
Community  College,  Beverly,  Mass.  .  .  . 
DANIEL  A.  CZERNICKI  is  with  the  Naval 
Underwater  Systems  Center,  Newport,  R.I. 
.  .  .  EDWARD  P.  FOSTER  has  been  named 
manager  of  Tampella  Systems  with  the 
industrial  and  marine  division  of  The 
Babcock  &  Wilcox  Company's  power 
generation  group  in  Barberton,  Ohio.  He 
will  be  responsible  for  developing  the 
Tampella  process  (a  patented  chemical  re- 
covery process  which  recovers  sodium  and 
sulfur  from  recovery  boiler  smelt  used  in 
the  pulp  and  paper  industry)  for  sale  in 
North  America.  Foster  is  presently  working 
for  his  MBA  at  Kent  State  University,  Kent, 
Ohio.  ...  J.  RANDALL  HUBER  is  a  junior 
engineer  at  Bay  State  Engineering  Corp., 
Winchester,  Mass.  .  .  .  ROBERT  D. 
PLANTE  was  recently  commissioned  an 
Army  second  lieutenant  upon  graduation 
from  the  Artillery  Officer  Candidate  School 

at  Ft.  Sill,  Okla F.  DAVID  PLOSS  III  is 

currently  working  for  Norton  Co.  in 
Worcester,  and  he  is  also  rowing  coach  at 
WPI.  Last  summer  he  served  as  a  rowing 
coach  at  the  Olympic  games  in  Munich, 
Germany.   .   .   .    PAUL   C.   WILSON    is  a 


HE  WPI  JOURNAL 


29 


xsMunvsni 


manufacturers  of 

Double-Seal  Ball  Valves 

Wafer-Sphere  Butterfly  Valves 

JFC  Control  Valves 

Jamesbury  Corp.  •  640  Lincoln  Street  •  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 


graduate  assistant  at  the  University  of  New 
Hampshire  where  he  is  in  the  PhD  program 
in  theoretical  and  applied  mechanics.  .  .  . 
DAVID  A.  QUAGLINI,  JR.,  is  a  structural 
design  engineer  at  Combustion  Engineer- 
ing, Inc.,  Windsor,  Conn.  .  .  .  J.  F.  WEISZ 
is  a  teaching  assistant  at  the  University  of 
Kansas. 

1971 

Married:  ROBERT  A.  CHILDS  to  Miss 
Lois  Ann  Baldwin  on  September  9, 1 972  in 
Worcester.  The  groom  is  a  controls  engi- 
neer at  Riley  Stoker  Corp LT.  JAM  ES  L. 

DeLARYto  Miss  Susan  Rachel  Harting  on 
July  1 5, 1 972  in  Roslindale,  Massachusetts. 
The  bride  graduated  from  Framingham 
State  College  in  June.  Her  husband  is 
serving  with  the  armed  forces  in  Germany 
where  the  couple  will  live  for  the  next  two 
years.  .  .  .  DOUGLAS  C.  FAY  and  Miss 
Pamela  J.  Elmer  on  July  22  in  Holden, 
Massachusetts.  The  bridegroom  is  a  com- 
puter operator  at  Hendries  Refrigerated 
Storage,  Southboro.  .  .  .  MICHAEL 
MURPHY  and  Miss  Donna  M.  Janowski 
on  September  3, 1 972  in  Worcester.  Among 
the  ushers  were  JAMES  BAGAGLIO,  '70 
and  JOHN  GIORDANO,  71.  Mrs.  Murphy 
is  a  registered  nurse  at  St.  Vincent  Hospital. 
Her  husband  is  a  data  communications 
consultant  for  New  England  Telephone  Co., 
Boston. 

ANTHONY  RUSCITO  to  Miss  Patricia 
Murtha  on  July  28, 1 972  in  Fairfield,  Conn. 
ROBERT  MERRITT,  '70,  ushered.  Mrs. 
Ruscito  is  a  Becker  graduate. . . .  FRANCIS 
M.  SCRICCO  and  Miss  Pamela  M. 
Strombom  on  August  26, 1 972  in  Worces- 
ter. The  bride  is  a  graduate  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  Massachusetts.  Her  husband  is  a 
graduate  student  at  Columbia  University, 

New  York  City DANIEL  P.  SMITH  and 

MJss  Karen  D.  Chojnacki  on  August  26, 
1 972  in  Worcester.  Mrs.  Smith  is  a  student 
at  Quinsigamond  Community  College.  The 
groom  is  employed  by  Riley  Stoker  Corp. 
.  .  .  BRUCE  SODERMAN  to  Miss  Cynthia 
Novey  on  Sept.  1  in  Worcester.  Mrs. 
Soderman  is  a  graduate  of  Becker  Junior 

College ROBERT  J.  TRACHIMOWICZ 

and  Miss  Patricia  A.  O'Neil  on  September 
9,  1972  in  Worcester.  The  bride  is  a  staff 


30 


nurse  at  Worcester  City  Hospital  School  of 
Nursing.  The  bridegroom  is  an  electrical 
engineer  for  Ebasco  Services  of  New  York, 
working  for  Houston  Lighting  and  Power, 
Houston,  Texas. 

PAUL  B.  ASH,  who  recently  received 
his  MAT  from  the  University  of  Massachu- 
setts, is  currently  a  chemistry  teacher  at 
the  Amherst  (Mass.)  Regional  High  School 
and  Hillcrest  Elementary  School.  .  .  . 
ASHOK  K.  BADJATNYA  is  self  employed 
in  India....  ROLAND  R.  BATSON  has  been 
named  assistant  general  manager  at  Ace 
Traveler  Co.,  Alfred,  Me.  In  his  new  posi- 
tion he  will  be  in  charge  of  sales,  engineer- 
ing, manufacturing,  and  purchasing  activ- 
ities. .  .  .  ALAN  E.  BEDARD  is  an  associate 
engineer  with  New  England  Telephone  and 
Telegraph  Co.,  Fitchburg,  Mass.  .  .  . 
JOSEPH  P.  BELLINO  is  a  pre-sales  engi- 
neer for  Riley  Stoker  Corp.,  Worcester.  .  .  . 
PAUL  H.  COOPER,  JR.,  has  been  ap- 
pointed a  civil  engineer  trainee  in  the  U.S. 
Army  Engineer  Division,  New  England,  at 
Waltham,  Mass.  He  will  receive  assign- 
ments in  planning,  design,  construction, 
hydrology,  and  related  fields.  .  .  .  SCOTT 
DINEEN  has  joined  the  Trane  Company's 
commercial  air  conditioning  division  sales 
office  in  New  York  City.  .  .  .  DAVID  L 
GREENHALGH,  a  second  lieutenant  in  the 
Army,  is  presently  stationed  at  Ft.  Knox, 
Ky. . . .  RICHARD  V.  GROUT  is  with  United 
Engineers  &  Constructors,  Boston,  Mass. 
.  .  .  STEEN  HANNIBAL  is  head  of  the  bio- 
medical engineering  department,  Copen- 
hagen County  Hospital,  Copenhagen, 
Denmark.  .  .  .  RUSSELL  F.  HARRIS 
teaches  at  Algonquin  Regional  High 
School,  Northboro,  Mass.  ...  DR.  JAMES 
A.  KAUFMAN  is  currently  a  Post  Doctoral 
Fellow  in  the  Chemical  Engineering  De- 
partment at  WPI.  .  .  .  JOSEPH  E.  LAPTE- 
WICZ  recently  received  his  MS  degree  in 
chemical  engineering  from  Cornell  Univer- 
sity, Ithaca,  N.Y.  He  now  is  a  process 
engineer  for  Pfizer,  Inc.,  Groton,  Conn.  .  .  . 
JOHANNES  LARSEN  is  employed  at 
Alden  Research  Laboratories,  Holden, 
Mass.  .  .  .  JAMES  P.  LAVALLEE,  JR.,  has 
employment  with  Chicks  Construction  Co., 
Clinton,  Mass.  .  .  .  JARL  D.  LINDEN  is  a 
consulting  engineer  at  C.  A.  Paterson,  Inc., 


Sarasota,  Fla.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  J.  MULVEY 
serves  as  a  design  engineer  for  Sikorsky 
Aircraft,  Stratford,  Conn.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  C. 
PALMER  is  working  for  his  MBA  at  Duke 
University,  Durham,  N.C.  .  .  .  JOHN  H. 
READ  is  an  assistant  structural  engineer  at 
B  &  M  Corp.,  North  Billerica,  Mass.  .  .  . 
DR.  PATRICK  V.  ROMANO  is  an  assistant 
professor  at  Westfield  (Mass.)  State  Col- 
lege. .  .  .  RICHARD  P.  SAN  ANTONIO  has 
been  accepted  at  the  Washington  Univer- 
sity School  of  Medicine,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 
This  year  he  receives  his  MS  degree  from 
MIT.  .  .  .  ALFRED  B.  SCARAMELLI,  JR., 
has  received  his  MS  in  civil  engineering 
from  the  University  of  Massachusetts.  The 
University  has  awarded  him  a  research 
assistantship  and  he  is  currently  working 
for  his  doctorate  in  environmental  engi- 
neering. .  .  .  WILLIAM  A.  SHERMAN  is  a 
draftsman  for  Cosentini  Associates,  Cam- 
bridge, Mass.  .  .  .  JAMES  H.  SNIDER  is 
with  Alden  Research  Laboratories.  .  .  . 
JOHN  F.  SPERANDIO,  JR.,  was  one  of 
several  Peace  Corps  volunteers  who  was 
arrested  in  Uganda  in  September  and  later 
released.  He  had  been  teaching  physics  at 
Kiria  College  in  Ginja  and  was  traveling 
when  he  was  arrested  in  the  warring 
African  country.  .  .  .  2/LT.  PETER  B. 
WELLES  is  with  the  U.S.  Army  in  Germany. 
.  .  .  ROBERT  D.  WILLIAMS  has  been  ap- 
pointed to  the  position  of  district  scout 
executive  of  the  Watatic  District,  Nashua 
Valley  Council,  Boy  Scouts  of  America. .  . . 
FREDERICK  WOZNIAK  is  with  Stone  & 
Webster  Engineering,  Boston. 


1972 

Mawec/VPAULW.ANDRUCKIEWICZto 
Miss  Carol  M.  Kingston  on  August  26, 1 972 
in  Northfield,  Vermont.  The  bride  is  an 
elementary  school  teacher  in  the  Worcester 
school  system.  Her  husband  is  a  graduate 
student  at  MIT. . . .  JAMES  M.  CISKOWSKI 
and  Miss  Alice  B.  Lefebvre  on  July  29, 
1972  in  Worcester.  Mrs.  Ciskowski  is  a 
school  teacher.  The  bridegroom  is  doing 
graduate  work  at  Duke  University,  Durham, 
N.C,  where  he  is  a  teaching  assistant  in 
the  Gross  Chemical  Laboratory.  .  .  .  DAVID 
S.  CUMMINGS  and  Miss  Bonnie  Lee 
Herrmann  on  June  17,  1972  in  West 
Boylston,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Cummings 
isadental  assistant..  ..JOHN  R  FERRARO 
to  Miss  Cynthia  L.  Woods  on  September  9, 
1972  in  Springfield,  Massachusetts.  The 
groom  is  with  Northeast  Utilities  Service 
Co.,  in  Berlin,  Conn.  .  .  .  DANIEL  GAC- 
CETTA,  JR.,  to  Miss  Janet  M.  Eastman  on 
August  19,  1972  in  Bethel,  Maine.  Mrs. 
Gaccetta  is  a  graduate  of  the  University  of 
Maine.  Her  husband  is  employed  by 
Factory  Insurance  Association,  Worcester. 
.  .  .  MURRAY  GLAZER  and  Miss  Karen 
Joan  McClutchy  on  July  30  in  Falmouth, 
Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Glazer  teaches  in  the 
Weymouth  school  system.  The  groom  has 
employment  with  Universal  Prestressed 
Concrete  Co.,  Inc.,  Plympton.  .  .  .  DAVID 
T.  HAYHURST  to  Miss  Elizabeth  J.  Friend 
on  August  5,  1972  in  North  Attleboro, 
Massachusetts.  A  Wheaton  College  gradu- 
ate, Mrs.  Hayhurst  is  a  teacher  in  North 
Attleboro.  Her  husband  is  doing  graduate 
work  at  MIT.  .  .  .  GEORGE  KARAPETIAN 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL  i 


and  M.  Meline  Khodjian  on  September  24, 
1972  in  Worcester.  .  .  .  RICHARD  N. 
PANTON  and  Miss  Deborah  C.  Turansky 
on  August  26  in  West  Hartford,  Connecti- 
cut. Mrs.  Panton  is  a  Becker  graduate.  Her 
husband  is  with  du  Pont  in  Richmond,  Va. 

. . .  LT.  JOH  N  D.  POWERS  to  Miss  Elizabeth 
C.  Ulrich  on  September  23  in  Berkeley 
Heights,  New  Jersey.  Mrs.  Powers  attended 
Bethany  College.  Lt.  Powers,  who  is  with 
ithe  Army  Adjutant  General  Corps,  is 
presently  stationed  at  Furth,  Germany.  .  .  . 
JOHN  E.  SWANSON  to  Miss  Kathleen 
M.  Knight  on  September  2  in  Concord, 
New  Hampshire.  JOHN  DEMASE,  '70, 
was  an  usher.  The  bride,  a  Becker  gradu- 
ate. Works  for  the  N.  H.  Technical  Institute 
in  Corcord.  Her  husband  is  in  Officers 
Preparatory  Academy  in  Alcoa,  Tenn. 

DWIGHT  B.  ALLEN  serves  as  a  junior 
aeronautical  engineer  for  Itek,  Lexington, 
Mass.  .  .  .  DONALD  J.  BLACHOWICZ  is  a 
chemical  operator  at  Humphrey  Chemical 
iCo.,  North  Haven,  Conn.  .  .  .  FRANCIS  B. 
COSTA  is  a  graduate  assistant  at  the  Uni- 


versity of  Miami RICHARD  L.  COTTER 

is  a  research  chemist  at  Waters  Associates, 
Inc.,  Framingham,  Mass.  .  .  .  ANDREW  J. 
CUCCHIARA  is  doing  graduate  work  at 
the  University  of  Oklahoma  Medical 
Center,  Oklahoma  City.  .  .  .  LINDA  M. 
DUPONT  has  employment  as  a  systems 
analyst  at  Wright  Line,  a  Division  of  Barry 
Wright  Corp.,  Worcester.  .  .  .  F.  JEAN 
FRASER  is  at  Bradford  College,  Institute 
of  Urban  Studies,  Bradford,  Mass.  .  .  . 
THEODORE  A.  FREDERICKS  is  a  service 
engineer  for  Riley  Stoker  Corp.,  Worcester. 
...  DR.  ALBERTA.  HEANEY  is  an  associate 
professor  of  electrical  engineering  at 
Andrews  University,  Berrien  Springs, 
Mich.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  J.  KLEIN,  JR.,  serves 
as  a  night  shift  supervisor  at  Boxmakers, 
Inc.,  Westfield,  Mass.  .  .  .  RCA  of  Burling- 
ton, Mass.,  employs  ANDREW  G.  MAY- 
SHAR  as  an  associate  member  of  the 
technical  staff.  .  .  .  BARRY  M.  MORAN  is 
an    educator    at    The     Loomis    Institute, 

Windsor,  Conn FRED  MULLIGAN  is  a 

purchasing  agent  for  Herbert  Engineering, 
Worcester.  .  .  .  EDWIN  L.  PACE  has  the 


position  of  manager — thermodynamic  de- 
sign engineering,  at  General  Electric  Co., 

Fitchburg,  Mass BHOGILAL  L.  PATEL 

holds  the  post  of  product  manager  at 
Environmental  Control  System,  Inc., 
Minneapolis,  Minn.  .  .  .  RICHARD  S. 
PODOLNY  is  employed  as  a  chef  at  the 
Brewster  Inn,  Brewster,  Mass.  .  .  .  DR.  A. 
E.  SAPEGA  is  a  professor  at  Trinity  College, 
Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  DINESH  V.  SHAH 
works  as  a  mechanical  engineer  for  Matz 
Corporation,  Holyoke,  Mass.  .  .  .  ELLIOTT 
STRIZHAK  is  a   staff  engineer  at   MIT's 

Lincoln  Labs JAMES  W.  TARPEY  has 

joined  the  'Electrical  Engineering  Depart- 
ment of  Orange  &  Rockland  Utility  Co., 
Spring  Valley,  N.Y.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  S.  WAY 
is  a  technical  representative  at  Kemper, 
Boston,  Mass.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  R.  WHIT- 
WORTH  is  superintendent  of  industrial 
packaging  at  Maryland  Plastics,  Inc., 
Federalsburg,  Md.  .  .  .  JOHN  ZORA- 
BEDIAN,  JR.,  is  a  manufacturing  manage- 
ment trainee  at  General  Electric  Co., 
Pittsfield,  Mass. 


OOPS!  As  hard  as  we  try,  errors  still  creep 
in  occasionally.  We  apologize  for  the  errors 
which  occurred  in  the  report  of  the  1  971  -72 
Annual  Alumni  Fund,  and  we  want  to 
sincerely  recognize  the  thoughtfulness  and 
generosity  of  the  following  contributors: 


Charles  Bonin  '38 
William  R.  Grogan  '46 
Kim  Woodbury  '44 
Otto  Konigslow  Co. 
William  Schuermann  '21 
B.  LeeTuttle  '69 


President's  Club 
Century  Club 
Century  Club 

President's  Club 


E  WPI  JOURNAL 


31 


/-Feedback 


To  the  Editor 

My  heartiest  congratulations  to  you 
and  to  the  Alumni  Publications  Com- 
mittee on  the  new  approach,  and  "new 
look"  being  developed  in  The  WPI 
Journal  —  at  least  as  evidenced  by  the 
August  1972  issue,  which  1  have  read 
from  cover  to  cover  (and  re-read  sever- 
al parts).  The  editing  of  the  material 
presented  at  the  symposium  held  on 
the  campus  on  May  2,  1972  was  an 
outstanding  job.  The  whole  idea  of  a 
"theme  issue"  concept,  meaningful  to 
alumni  and  relating  directly  and  cur- 
rently to  Tech,  is  not  only  sound  but 
should  lead  to  a  more  conscious  re- 
action of  alumni  that  their  Alma  Mater 
is  a  vibrant,  living  and  significantly 
important  institution  in  the  edu- 
cational world  today.  Keep  up  the  fine 
work! 

I  like  the  WPI  NEWSBRIEFS  also 
as  they  are  issued  from  time  to  time. 
The  September  issue  was  particularly 
newsworthy.  The  change  in  the  Ad- 
missions Policy  is  certainly  a  move  in 
the  right  direction  provided  the  ad- 
missions staff  can  give  it  the  man- 
hours  needed  for  effective  application. 
It  has  always  been  my  view  that 
"College  Board"  grades  were  some- 
thing the  admission  officer  was  wont 
to  hide  behind  for  lack  of  time  or 
energy  or  desire  to  really  find  out 
what  made  the  applicant  "tick". 

But  I  was  appalled  at  the  article 
"Parents  Surveyed".  1  cannot  accept 
the  statement  that  87  replies  out  of 
591  inquiries  was  "a  good  response". 
The  education  of  their  son  or  daugh- 
ter, at  very  substantial  cost,  is  one  of 
the  two  or  three  of  the  major  events  in 
a  parent's  lifetime.  The  expenditure 
alone  is  probably  the  second  (next  to  a 
home)  largest  capital  investment  those 
parents  will  make.  A  questionnaire  of 
this    type    should    be    addressed    in    a 


"personal"  manner,  either  from  the 
Dean  of  Admissions,  or  better  yet 
from  the  President.  I  assume  it  was. 
What  important  questions  were  pre- 
sented! That  less  than  15%  of  parents 
should  have  responded  to  the  question 
of  whether  Tech  was  providing  the 
right  environment  for  their  son  or 
daughter  —  or  how  that  educational 
environment  might  be  improved  is 
absolutely  appalling.  It  vividly  points 
up  a  very  serious  communications  gap 
with  the  President's  office.  I  cannot 
understand  it. 

GORDON  C.  WILLARD  '24 

North  Chatham,  Mass. 


Public  Relations  Director  Roger  Perry, 
who  also  serves  as  executive  secretary 
of  the  WPI  Society  of  Families,  replied 
to  Mr.  Willard  explaining  why  this  was 
considered  a  good  response.  Briefly,  he 
noted  that  "the  response  to  mail  sur- 
veys, direct  mail  advertising  and 
questionnaires  rarely  exceeds  the  per- 
centage response  of  this  particular 
survey  and  generally  is  less.  Since  the 
questionnaire  in  question  was  part  of  a 
mailing  which  included  an  issue  of  the 
Parents'  Newsletter,  many  people  con- 
sidered that  a  reply  was  optional 
(which  it  was). 

"The  questionnaire,  in  our  opin- 
ion, served  the  purpose  for  which  it 
was  sent  in  that  it  provided  parents 
wishing  to  make  comments  or  ask 
questions  the  opportunity  to  do  so. 
Many  returns  resulted  in  letters  or 
telephone  calls  back  to  parents  to 
clarify  particular  situations. 

"The  questionnaire  and  the  pat- 
ents' newsletters  serve  to  establish  a 
communications  link  with  parents  who 


often  call  Mr.  Perry's  office  when  they 
are  not  sure  who  to  contact.  He  is  able 
to  direct  their  inquiries  to  the  right 
person  on  campus,  or  when  confidence 
is  requested,  to  obtain  the  needed 
information  himself.  " 


To  the  Editor 

Over  the  years  I  have  enjoyed  receiving 
the  Journal  and  generally  found  my- 
self reading  about  members  of  my , 
class  and  those  classes  that  were  close 
to  me.  Occasionally,  there  were  arti- 
cles of  interest,  however,  I  must  admit 
that  consistently  over  the  years  the 
Journal  was  of  moderate  interest. 

Walter  B.  Dennen's  article  was 
"right-on"  and  I  want  to  compliment 
you  and  your  staff  with  respect  to  the 
issue  on  genetic  engineering.  This  Jour- 
nal was  read  by  me  cover-to-cover. 
Keep  up  the  good  work. 

HAROLD  FLE1T  '45 
Stamford.  Conn. 


To  the  Editor: 

It  was  very  gratifying  and  encouraging 
to  note  in  your  article  that  the  "Jour- 
nal" will  be  distributed  to  under- 
graduates. I've  always  voiced  the 
opinion  that  if  better  Alumni  interest 
and  participation  is  to  be  realized  it's 
got  to  start  during  the  undergraduate 
years.  I've  always  felt  that  ["ech  his 
been  remiss  in  this.  This  step  is  certain- 
ly m  the  right  direction, 

JOHN  F.  BRIERLY  'SO 
Glenview,  Illinois 


32 


THE  WPI  JOURNAL 


taaiatummail 


5 


H3S, 


imuntsip 


Vol.  76,  No.  5 


February,  1973 


~j }  i 


Sj&%^ 


Vg?  all  WW$j£m&*r$i 

33  «a    2g  »  sS  as  g£  f£  fe  5-/W 

S^fe  Si        '<*A        Si-       3**     ft£     %    ^>    *■     A-.^':"     ■<"■     3 

^  8  ii  slililf^ffil  t 

^ff  **     **     *fj   ^*2  ;*£  k*  ^S  33  w  lEt     S  i_ 


n»^ilifi 


i^i 


mm 


6S£a 


J'M 


^ — » 

»    ■      JMM 


w 


TUBS  »rai  ■ 


ggfjgj^j;  SS3.  ^   ;. 


js»; 


m 


"  .j^ 


in:  lip 


Vol.  76,  No.  5 


February,  1973 


1 

2 

12 

20 
33 


Involving  You  and  Us — an  editorial 


Seven  Weeks  at  the  Jail — a  WPI  student  teaches 
English  at  the  oldest  jail  in  the  country. 


Bill  and  the  Brother  Machine — a  WPI  student  who 
has  found  himself  70  little  brothers — and  a  lot  of 
personal  satisfaction. 


SKYLAB— two  WPI  alumni  and  their  very  different 
kinds  of  work  with  the  U.S.  space  program. 


The  New  Look — a  word  from  the  editor  about  the 
revised  Journal  format. 


Departments 

A  C£  Completed  Careers 

A  O  Your  Class  and  Others 

OO  Feedback 

The  Cover:  This  month's  cover  started  out  as  a  black-and-white 
photograph  of  the  Worcester  County  Jail  taken  by  the  editor.  From 
this  original  print  he  produced  the  four-color  posterization.  For  a  few 
words  on  the  new  Journal  logotype,  see  page  33. 


Editor:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Alumni  Information  Editor:  Ruth  A.  Trask 

Publications  Committee:  Walter  B.  Dennen, 
Jr.,  '51,  Chairman;  Richard  DeChard,  '56; 
Robert  C.  Gosling,  '68;  Enfried  T.  Larson, 
'22;  Roger  N.  Perry,  Jr.,  '45;  Rev.  Edward 
I.  Swanson,  '45 

Design:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Typography  and  printing:  Davis  Press, 
Worcester.  Massachusetts. 

Address  all  correspondence  regarding 
editorial  content  or  advertising  to  the 
Editor,  WPI  Journal,  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute,  Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609 
(phone  617-753-1411). 


The  WPI  Journal  is  published  for  the 
Alumni  Association  by  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute.  Copyright©  1973 
by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute;  all 
rights  reserved. 


The  WPI  Journal  is  published  six  times  a 
year  in  August,  September,  October, 
December,  February,  and  April.  Second 
Class  postage  paid  at  Worcester, 
Massachusetts.  Postmaster:  Please  send 
form  3579  to  Alumni  Association, 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester. 
Massachusetts  01609 


WPI  Alumni  Association 

President:  I.  J.  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44 

Vice  Presidents:  W.  J.  Bank,  '46; 
L.  Polizzotto,  '70 

Secretary-Treasurer:  S.  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President:  R.  E.  Higgs,  '40 

Executive  Committee  Members  at  target 

C.  C.  Bonin,  '38;  F.  S.  Harvey,  '37; 

C.  W.  Backstrom,  '30;  B.  E.  Hosmer,  '61| 

Fund  Board:  R.  F.  Burke.  Jr..  '38,  Chairrmj 

W.  J.  Charow,  '49,  Vice  Chairman; 

L.  H.  White,  '41;  H.  I.  Nelson, '54; 

P.  H.  Horstmann,  '55;  D,  J.  Maguiru,  '66 


Hvolving  You  and  Us 


re  a  young  alumnus  who  is  unhappy  with  your  employ- 
and  want  to  make  a  change.  Or  perhaps  you've  been  out 
liege  for  twenty-five  years  and  suddenly  one  day  find 
self  unemployed  and  with  no  real  concept  of  any 
tion  to  turn.  Or  maybe  you're  looking  to  better  yourself 
laking  an  employment  change.  Any  one  of  these  cases  can 
■ont  an  alumnus  at  some  point  in  his  career.  We  feel  it  is 
responsibility  of  the  Alumni  Association  and  WPI  to 
de  assistance  to  alumni  who  find  themselves  in  one  of 
:  sometimes  traumatic  situations.  We  feel  you  should  be 
e  of  what  is  available  to  you. 

new  effort  of  the  Office  of  Graduate  and  Career  Plans 

nerly   the  Placement  Office)  is  rapidly  taking  shape.  An 

1  mailing  to  over  7,500  alumni  in  December  has  generated 

ater  than  expected  number  of  inquiries  regarding  the  new 

am.    In    the    first    two   weeks  over   500   responses  were 

ved.  (Incidentally,  it's  not  too  late  to  respond.)  The  key 

ent  of  the  service  is  a  new  publication  titled  "Opportuni- 

It  will  be  prepared  monthly  by  the  Office  of  Graduate 

Career  Plans  and  it  will  contain  job  descriptions,  including 

ion,     requirements,    salary,    and    other    pertinent    facts. 

■her  information  on  the  various  positions  will  be  available 

an     request.    The    first    issue    on    February    1     contained 

■oximately  125  listings  of  positions  currently  available  and 

■  mailed  to  all  who  responded.  The  Office  of  Graduate  and 
■er  Plans  is  conducting  an  active  program  to  expand 
lloyer  inputs  and  the  listing  of  available  positions.  As 
mloyers  become  aware  of  the  service,  it  is  anticipated  that 

■  increase  will  be  dramatic.  An  additional  twelve  issues  will 
vailable  for  a  service  charge  of  five  dollars.  We  have  every 
:  that  we  will  be  able  to  satisfactorily  assist  alumni  of  WPI 
lis  way. 

Help  is  needed  though  and  you  can  provide  it.  The  success 
he  program  will  depend  to  a  great  extent  on  the  listings 
:ained  in  "Opportunities."  Perhaps  you  or  your  employer 
[immediate  openings  for  professional  people.  An  alumnus 
yPI  might  meet  the  job  description.  A  single  note  or  call  to 

Office  of  Graduate  and  Career  Plans  could  result  in  a  job 
r  which  could  have  mutual  benefit  to  another  alumnus, 
employer,  and  perhaps  you  personally.  It's  an  easy  way 
et  a  great  deal  of  satisfaction. 

This  alumni  placement  program  is  but  one  example  of  the 
mni  Association  and  WPI  working  to  serve  the  needs  of  its 
luates.  There  are  many  other  ways,  too,  and  we  need  to 
w  what  is  most  important  and  relevant  to  you.  We  need  to 
:  communication  with  you  and  have  your  involvement.  It 

require  little  or  no  effort.  Write  a  letter  to  the  editor  of 


the  Journal  and  express  your  views  on  a  topic.  Call  the  Office 
of  Graduate  and  Career  Plans  when  you're  looking  for  a  new 
employee.  Contact  the  Alumni  Director  when  you  think 
there's  a  possibility  your  Alma  Mater  can  assist  you.  Sponsor  a 
project  to  help  educate  an  undergraduate.  Further  your 
knowledge  and  perspective  by  enrolling  in  an  Intersession 
course  or  a  regular  seven-week  course.  Interest  a  high  school 
student  in  attending  WPI.  Attend  a  Chapter  Meeting.  Become 
involved.  It's  easy.  CD 


'---■•     '~~'       -"■»"■-'- 


">"'"V  ■'  '■  '  "  - : . 


iuimi 


'■■■&:' 


JUL 

mm 
lira 

MM 


J 


Mass: 


Hi 
llllllllil 
llllllll" 


m&£'J*? 


[JMI 

Hi!! 


■ .  ■■ 


III 

eh  e 


■■ 


ml 


mm 


•ft 


.IB 


' 

•'  1  c 

1 

••• ., 


1 


». 


-,>'V. 


naBiSBZJF-, 


■ 


H£ 


-A*, 


SEVEN  WEEKS  ATTHE  JAI 


I  teaching  diary 
Robert  A.  Manes,  '73 


be  Worcester  County  Jail,  built  in  1 789,  is  the  oldest 
ctional  institution  in  the  nation.  Because  a  new  jail  is 
r  construction,  all  funds  to  the  jail  have  been  re-routed  to 
project.   The  building  at  the  current  location  is  left  only 

bare  essentials,  and  consequently  the  physical  structure  is 
'ly  deteriorating.  The  third  floor,  for  example,  houses  a 
her  of  partitioned  sections  called  classrooms,  weight- 
g  facilities,  a  pool  table,  offices,  and  a  chapel  (also  used 
lassroom  space);  it  has  been  condemned  for  several  years. 
'he  English  Department  of  WPI  is  cooperating  with  the 
itional  program  at  the  jail,  which  is  under  the  direction  of 
lin  Donald  R.  Bird,  for  the  purpose  of  offering  courses 
be  inmates.  I  was  the  first  student  from  WPI  to  undertake 

roject  for  course  credits. 

taught  a  "Short  Literature"  course  (incorporating  mainly 
hort  story,  poetry,  and  some  student  writing),  to  inmates 
had  a  high  school  diploma,  and  desired  to  take  part  in  a 
sre  level  course. 

\y  class  met  in  the  rear  of  the  chapel,  a  terrible 
'Sphere  in  which  to  teach  or  learn.  Despite  its  flaking  walls 
its  broken  pews,  however,  it  was  actually  better  than  the 
ar  classroom  space  in  that  it  was  relatively  quiet;  it  was 

warm    on    cold    nights.    Class   meetings   were    Tuesday, 
lesday,   and   Thursday  from   6.30  to   8:30  P.M.    with  a 
m-minute  break  at  the  end  of  the  first  hour. 
Vb at  follows  are  some  observations  and  descriptions  of  the 
riences  I  encountered  in  my  seven-week  adventure. 

would  like  to  thank  Captain  Bird,  Director  of  Education 
e  Worcester  County  Jail,  for  his  enthusiasm  under  severe 
itions,  in  welcoming  student  teachers  to  conduct  classes 
be  inmates. 

J  would  also  like  to  thank  Dr.  Lance  Schachterle  of  the 
English  Department,  supervisor  of  the  jail  teaching 
ct,  whose  perseverance  and  kind  attention  helped  me 
gh  the  perils  I  met,  and  made  my  adventure  immensely 
'.  enjoyable. 


Preparation 

Captain  Bird  asked  me  to  submit  a  probable  syllabus  for  the 
course  so  that  the  jail  officials  could  see  exactly  what  was 
planned.  It  accounted  only  for  the  weeks  up  to  October  16, 
because  Term  A  at  WPI  ended  on  October  24.  He  had 
expected  my  course  to  continue  all  winter,  however,  in 
association  with  his  regular  classes  involving  preparation  for 
High  School  Equivalency  Tests.  I  explained  that  this  was 
impossible  for  me  because  of  coursework  I  was  required  to 
take  during  Term  B.  Professor  Schachterle  and  I  assured 
Captain  Bird  that  we  would  make  all  efforts  to  find  a  student 
to  take  my  place  for  Term  B. 

The  jail  has  no  book  supply,  so  it  was  my  duty  to  provide 
the  text.  I  could  get  no  idea  as  to  how  many  students  I  would 
begin  with.  I  set  out,  then,  to  find  what  I  felt  would  be  a 
sufficient  number  of  texts:  ten  copies  of  Short  Story 
Masterpieces,  an  anthology  edited  by  Robert  Penn  Warren  and 
Albert  Erskine.  The  area  book  supplier,  Atlas  News  in 
Boylston,  had  no  copies  in  stock.  I  searched  the  book  stores  in 
Worcester  and  was  able  to  locate  seven  copies  of  the  text.  I 
was  assured  that  I  would  be  reimbursed  for  the  money  I  spent. 
As  it  turned  out,  however,  I  was  not  reimbursed  for  those 
books  for  which  I  could  not  present  sales  slips.  In  the  end,  I 
had  donated  $2.45  to  the  Worcester  County  Jail. 

Tuesday,  September  12 

This  first  night  of  classes  saw  three  obviously  misled  students 
present.  One  was  attending  in  the  hopes  that  he  could  acquire 
college  credit.  When  he  found  none  available,  he  left.  Another 
student,  Dale,  heard  that  a  "college  course"  was  to  be  offered; 
he  expected  to  cover  a  number  of  different  subjects  (hopefully 
scientific)  at  the  college  level.  The  third  student,  Larry,  came 
for  something  to  do.  At  this  point,  I  abandoned  my  plans  for 
the  basic  format  of  the  course.  Finding  that  Larry  wanted  to 
work  on  his  creative  talents  in  writing  while  Dale  desired  to 
develop  an  acceptable  style  of  writing  in  order  to  write  a  letter 
for  a  Commissioner's  Release,*  I  decided  to  let  the  students 
pursue  their  individual  wishes. 

I  asked  each  student  to  write  a  paragraph  explaining  what 
he  hoped  to  receive  from  the  course,  so  that  I  could  have  a 
sample  of  their  writing.  Dale's  example  was  not  written  as 
poorly  as  he  told  me  it  was,  but  Larry  was  quite  redundant  in 
his  phraseology. 


ert  A.  Manes  is  a  WPI  senior  majoring  in  Humanities  and 
inology  -  English.  He  is  from  Litchfield,  Connecticut. 


*A  Commissioner's  Release  is  a  supervised  parole  available  to  inmates 
with  certain  charges,  at  half  the  duration  of  their  sentence. 


- 

si! 

4 


I  had  originally  planned  to  lecture  briefly  about  the 
history  of  the  short  story,  then  to  show  how  the  form  was 
accepted  with  open  arms  by  the  Determinist  writers  in  the 
later  nineteenth  century.  My  first  assignment,  then,  was  going 
to  include  a  Stephen  Crane  story  ("The  Bride  Comes  to 
Yellow  Sky"),  "Impulse"  by  Conrad  Aiken,  and  "Soldier's 
Home"  by  Hemingway.  In  the  discussion  the  following  day,  I 
had  hoped  to  talk  about  the  latter  two  in  the  light  of  the 
Deterministic  attitude  of  the  first,  and  thus  partially  view  the 
heritage  of  the  Deterministic  school  of  writing.  Finding  the 
form  of  the  course  dropping  away,  and  desiring  to  begin  with 
stories  I  was  sure  would  hold  the  students'  attention,  I  decided 
to  assign  only  "Impulse"  and  "A  Bottle  of  Milk  for  Mother" 
by  Nelson  Algren.  "The  Bride  Comes  to  Yellow  Sky,"  I  felt, 
would  not  have  been  exciting  enough  to  hold  their  attention. 
The  two  stories  I  did  assign,  however,  dealt  with  the  arrest  and 
conviction  of  a  man  —  a  subject  the  students  could  obviously 
relate  to.  I  knew  both  stories  would  be  interesting  to  them, 
and  they  could  easily  be  compared  and  contrasted  with  each 
other  in  a  discussion. 


Wednesday,  September  13 

Dale  came  in  announcing  that  he  had  read  the  two  stories  and 
that  he  had  enjoyed  "Impulse"  much  more  than  "A  Bottle  of 
Milk  for  Mother"  because  it  was  easier  to  understand.  Larry, 
on  the  other  hand,  had  not  done  his  readings  because  he 
worked  all  day  in  the  Jail's  kitchen.  I  carried  on  a  very  good 
discussion  with  Dale  and  told  Larry  that  in  order  to  write 
creatively  he  must  learn  to  express  deeply  felt  feelings.  I  asked 
him  to  write  during  class  about  someone  he  really  loved, 
specifically  how  that  person  makes  him  feel.  On  the  other  side 
of  the  paper  I  asked  him  to  write  about  a  person  he  could  not 
stand.  On  the  first  side  he  wrote  of  his  girlfriend  and  their 
relationship.  The  person  he  hated,  interestingly  enough,  was 
himself,  for  his  mistreatment  of  his  girlfriend.  I  told  him  he 
had  the  makings  of  a  fine  short  story  and  suggested  that  he 
develop  his  ideas  further,  changing  it  to  a  third-person 
narrative. 

I  reviewed  the  students'  first  writing  assignments.  I  told 
Dale  he  needed  more  confidence,  and  Larry  that  he  needed  to 
conserve  on  words.  Dale  asked  me  questions  about  the 
difference  between  commas,  parentheses,  and  dashes.  I  as- 
signed "The  Egg"  by  Sherwood  Anderson,  "Soldier's  Home" 
by  Hemingway,  and  "The  Use  of  Force"  by  William  Carlos 
Williams.  I  asked  Dale  to  choose  and  write  on  his  favorite  story 
ot  those  he  had  read.  I  was  trying  to  get  Dale  CO  write  wli.u  he 


felt  was  the  author's  meaning  in  the  story,  and  not  just  to  j 
a  synopsis  as  he  tends  to  do  in  his  discussions. 

Larry  volunteered  to  continue  to  work  on  his  short  st< 


:j 


Thursday,  September  14 

Tonight,  we  spent  the  first  hour  discussing  "Soldier's  Hon 
and   "The   Use   of  Force."   Larry  had   not  done  the  read! 
because  of  work,  but  he  read  the  brief  short  story,  "The 
of  Force,"  during  class  and  was  able  to  join  in  the  discuss] 
of  it.  Dale  had  singled  out  a  number  of  colons  in  the  story  ; 
asked  me  to  explain  the  colon  and  its  use. 

During    the   break   time,    I    spoke   with    Dale   about 
problems  he  found  living  in  jail.  When  class  reconvened,  l 
discussion     continued.     I    assumed    that    the    inmates    coi 
unburden  themselves  to  few  people:   other  inmates  do 
desire  to  hear  their  problems,  and  the  guards  (from  what 
students    told    me)    are    quite    unsympathetic.    Contrary 
Captain  Bird's  advice,  then,  I  let  the  students  "take  over" 
discussion.  The  discussion  was  very  informative,  and  I  thi 
equally  important  to  all  three  of  us. 

I    assigned    three    new   stories:    "Torch   Song"   by   Ji 
Cheevers,  "The  Bride  Comes  to  Yellow  Sky,"  and  "Win   .. 
Dreams"  by  F.  Scott  Fitzgerald.  Dale,  who  hadn't  been  able 
do  his  writing  assignment,  said  that  he  would  write  on  "1 
Egg"  over  the  weekend.  Larry  would  continue  his  short  sto    . 

k 


Tuesday,  September  19 

This  evening,  Larry  told  how  his  parole  had  been  postponed 

seems  that  on  the  same  day  he  was  to  meet  his  parole  board 

was   called   to  court  for  the  purpose  of  having  three  mt 

warrants  connected  to  his  original  crime  served  to  him.  He  is 

the  process  of  appeal  now,  and  must  await  the  outcome  befc 

meeting   the   parole   board   again.  He  began  writing  his  sin 

story:  his  personal  experience  as  a  heroin  addict  and  its  resu 

He  is  writing  the  account  in  the  third  person,  which  is  c.is 

for  a  beginner  to  handle  than  the  first  person.  At  this  poii 

Larry  is  unsure  of  his  position  in  jail:  he  could  receive  a  long 

sentence   as   easily   as   parole.   The   protagonist    in   his  sto 

obviously    has    the    same    problem.    Larry    has    consequent 

decided    to    fabricate    an    ending    to    his  Story,   releasing   C 

character  from  his  problems,  and  making  it  possible  for  Lar 

to  begin  another  writing  experiment. 

Dale's  paper  on  "The  Egg"  posed  three  separate  ideas  b'  i 
i:..i.  .  i    .  i. l i    .u:_i.    i...    i i.  ..    1..  ' 


K 


he  never  linked  them  together.  I  think  he  knows  wli.it  lu 
i.ilking  about  .is  far  as  this  story  is  concerned,  so  I  outlined  h  U 


cakes  and   told  him  to  rewrite  the  paper  following  those 

lelines. 

During  class,  Dale  and  I  discussed  "Torch  Song"  and  "The 

"  further.  After  break,  Dale  showed  me  some  sentences  he 

te  using  the  comma,  the  dash,  and  the  parentheses.  (They 
quite  good).  He  then  asked  me  some  more  specifics  about 
mar  and  we  spent  the  rest  of  the  time  working  on 
pies  of  sentence  structure.  Before  1  left,  I  assigned  him  a 

ading  of  "Winter  Dreams"  and  "Witch's  Money"  by  John 

ier. 


I  planned  to  undertake  some  more 
grammar  review  with  Dale,  but  he 
asked  me:  "Now  that  you've  been  here 
a  couple  of  days,  what  do  you  think 
of  the  jail?" 


nesday,  September  20 

ght,  Larry  attended  a  "Fellowship"  (group  encounter) 
ing  instead  of  class. 
Dale  came  in  stating  he  had  worked  all  day,  but  that  he 
read  "Witch's  Money."  We  ventured  into  the  discussion 
I  could  see  he  had  read  only  the  first  few  pages  of  it.  He 
he  didn't  feel  well:  he  had  terrible  indigestion  pains.  When 
:ame  back  from  the  evening  break,  I  planned  to  undertake 
:  more  grammar  review  with  Dale,  but  he  asked  me:  "Now 
you've  been  here  a  couple  of  days,  what  do  you  think  of 
jail?"  I  stated  that  I  felt  that  it  was  a  place  meant  for 
:less,  hardened  criminals  (if  indeed  there  is  such  a  thing) 
it  was  horrible  to  think  of  is  as  a  "rehabilitation  center" 
Deople  who  went  astray.  I  feel  that  this  type  of  person  will 
ond  much  more  effectively  to  love  and  understanding, 
t  prevails  most  in  this  jail's  atmosphere  is  hate. 


irsday,  September  21 

fessor  Schachterle  advised  me  to  make  it  known  to  Dale 
I  was  no  psychologist  or  social  worker.  I  could  not  think 
way  to  apologize  for  leaving  Dale  the  previous  evening  in 
a  state  of  dismay,  and  sick  when  the  medical  dispensary 
closed.  When  1  first  saw  him  before  class,  I  asked  him  if  he 
better.  He  said  his  pains  were  gone  by  morning.  I 
erated  the  fact  that  he  must  accept  that  he  was  in  jail  for 
ing  caught  doing  something  wrong  and  his  term  in  jail  was 
pay  for  that  wrong.  I  explained  that  everyone  must  pay 
lehow  when  they  hurt  someone  else  or  society,  and  Dale's 
ment,  right  or  wrong,  was  in  the  Worcester  County  Jail.  If 
earns  to  accept  this  fact,  all  the  inadequacies  in  the  jail  and 
inmates  would  bother  him  less.  He  simply  nodded  his 
d. 

Larry  did  not  come  to  class  tonight.  When  we  entered  the 
sroom,  Dale  announced  that  he  wanted  to  do  the  grammar 
had  planned  to  do  the  previous  night.  I  told  him  that  I 
ited  to  do  or  talk  about  anything  that  he  wanted.  He  also 
I  his  revision  of  the  paper  on  "The  Egg."  We  spent  the  first 


issumed  that  the  inmates  could 
iburden  themselves  to  few  people: 
:  her  inmates  do  not  desire  to  hear 
lieir  problems,  and  the  guards  (from 
■hat  the  students  told  me)  are 
Lite  unsympathetic. 


hour  discussing  his  writing  form,  sentence  structure,  and  word 
choice.  We  rewrote  the  paper  again,  this  time  together.  He 
seemed  to  get  something  out  of  this. 

After  break,  Dale  talked  of  himself,  saying  that  although 
he  could  never  tell  me  what  his  crime  was,  part  of  the  reason 
he  was  in  jail  was  due  to  his  own  sexual  imbalance;  that  he  had 
led  a  very  secluded  and  reserved  younger  life.  The  conversation 
swung  to  the  topic  of  vulgarity,  and  how  was  he  supposed  to 
judge  a  girl  who  used  profanity,  after  he  had  been  brought  up 
to  believe  that  cursing  was  unfeminine  for  women. 

This  evening,  1  planned  to  stay  as  late  as  possible.  Contrary 
to  my  plans,  once  again,  Captain  Bird  came  over  at  8:30  and 
told  me  that  three  more  men  who  had  just  passed  their  High 
School  Equivalency  exams  would  join  the  class  Tuesday,  and 
made  Dale  and  me  leave.  I  then  asked  Dale  to  write  for  me  his 
feelings  on  vulgarity.  I  tried  to  tell  him  that  a  person  molded 
by  society  isn't  necessarily  the  true  person.  I  posed  the 
question:  On  the  intellectual  level,  is  there  any  difference 
between  men  and  women?  Dale  said  that  he  enjoyed  talking  to 
me  because  I  was  the  only  person  there  with  whom  he  could 
carry  on  a  sensible  conversation.  I  admonished  him  that  I 
could  only  offer  suggestions  and  opinions  of  the  way  /  see 
things  and  that  if  I  try  to  act  as  a  psychologist  or  social 
worker,  I  may  hurt  him  more  than  help  him  —  he  nodded  in 
agreement.  I  left  him  abruptly  again,  but  in  much  better  spirits 
tonight. 

1  think  I  have  been  going  at  Dale's  problem  too  negatively 
by  telling  him  it  is  wrong  to  get  nervous  or  afraid;  that  other 
inmates  are  >zo»-sensible.   I  must  try  to  picture  myself  in  his 

position:   "I  imagine  it  must  be  difficult  being  in  jail I 

would  be  bothered  by  pesty  inmates it  would  be  difficult 

to  laugh  them  off." 

With  three  new  students  coming  in,  however,  I  don't 
expect  to  have  such  intimate  conversations  with  Dale  any- 
more. What  will  happen  only  remains  to  be  seen.  Perhaps  I  will 
visit  Dale  personally  during  the  day  if  he  desires.  I  would 
rather  be  his  friend  than  simply  his  "teacher." 


Tuesday,  September  26 

Due  to  complications  with  the  equivalency  tests,  the  three  new 
students  cannot  enter  the  class  until  next  week.  Larry  came 
again  tonight,  and  continued  working  on  his  paper.  Professor 
Schachterle  was  there,  and  talked  with  Larry  and  other 
inmates  who  happened  to  come  in. 

I  reviewed  the  adverb,  adjective,  preposition,  and  con- 
junction with  Dale.  He  also  asked  me  questions  about  specific 
grammatical  constructions  he  came  across  in  the  stories.  After 


Meeting  eleven  students  was  a 
frightening  experience,  but  a  good 
lesson:  I  was  not  prepared  for  the 
unexpected  although  I  should  have 
learned  by  now.  Worse,  I  panicked 
and  gave  up. 


■  Dpi 

I  0 


the  break,  we  talked  about  Dale's  time  in  the  Army,  and 
compared  it  to  the  one  he  is  now  leading  in  jail.  I  tried  to 
approach  the  topic  from  a  more  positive  attitude  than  I  had 
been  showing.  I  think  it  is  a  much  more  effective  viewpoint. 

Dale  said  he  would  see  his  social  worker  tomorrow,  and 
that  he  might  be  able  to  write  for  his  Commissioner's  Release 
very  soon.  He  will  have  served  half  his  term  on  October  11. 


Wednesday,  September  27 

Dale  and  1  went  over  the  paper  He  handed  in  on  his  reaction  to 
vulgarity.  It  was  well  organized  and  fairly  well  supported  and 
written.  In  his  continuation  of  the  revision  of  "The  Egg," 
however,  he  still  hadn't  developed  his  point  sufficiently;  I'm 
sure  he  understands  the  story,  as  he  has  expressed  it  verbally.  I 
just  have  to  get  him  to  write  these  things  down.  I  think  he's 
afraid  to  waste  paper. 

Dale  had  already  prepared  his  letter  to  the  commissioner, 
requesting  the  suspension  of  the  second  half  of  his  term  on  the 
condition  that  he  will  remain  an  outpatient  in  a  psychiatric 
clinic.  It  appears  that  Dale  had  already  been  committed  to 
mental  institutions  for  two  21 -day  periods  in  the  past  for 
actions  connected  with  his  problem.  Obviously,  these  terms 
did  little  good.  Dale  feels,  however,  that  the  experience  of 
being  in  jail  has  already  cured  him  of  his  problem.  The 
counseling  times  at  the  clinic,  he  feels,  will  insure  confidence 
in  the  fact  that  he  has  overcome  his  problem,  and  will  act  as  a 
better  guide  to  his  future  than  another  45  days  in  the 
nonproductive  atmosphere  of  prison. 


Thursday,  Septe?nber  28 

Captain  Bird  reimbursed  me  for  four  of  the  six  dollars  I  had 
spent  on  books  for  the  course.  He  also  informed  me  that  he 
had  readvertised  the  course  to  all  inmates  and  that  there  may 
be  a  large  response;  there  may  be  10  to  15  new  men  in  next 
week.  This  is  a  large  jump  —  from  a  one-to-one  tutorial 
relationship  to  a  full  class.  It  will  require,  once  again,  that  I 
revamp  all  my  plans  and  go  out  and  buy  new  books.  Captain 
Bird  assured  me  that  I'll  have  the  money  for  the  new  books 
before  I  buy  them  this  time.  He  also  asked  me  if  I  had  found 
anyone  to  take  over  after  I  left;  I  told  him  we  were  still 
looking. 

Larry  came  with  some  progress  on  his  story  —  it  looks 
interesting.  I  gave  him  a  few  more  hints.  He  promises  me  he'll 
have  it  completed  by  Tuesday,  the  day  before  he  leaves  jail  on 
parole.    Henry,   a   new   student,  picked  up  a  book   and   the 


assignment  for  Monday  (Sinclair  Lewis's  "Virga  Vay  and  . 
Cedar,"  and  "Flight"  by  John  Steinbeck). 

Most  of  the  class  was  spent  helping  Dale  revise  his  lette 
send  to  his  probation  officer.  Captain  Bird  has  to  atten 
meeting  by   8:00   P.M.  and  had  to  lock  the  school  area, 
moved  Dale  and  me  to  the  visitors  room  so  we  could  conth| 
working. 

Larry  promised  Dale  he  would  talk  to  the  chaplain  who 
turn  would  recommend  Dale  for  release  to  the  commission 

The  regular  jail  school  schedule  begins  next  week:  M< 
day,  Tuesday,  and  Thursday  from  6:30  to  8:30  P.M.  I  v 
receive  three  new  students  Monday  night.  I  am  happy  tha, 
was  able  to  work  singly  with  Dale,  and  that  we  have  finish 
his  important  letter  to  the  County  Commissioner  and 
probation  officer.  Now,  a  greater  number  of  students  v 
obviously  curtail  any  lengthy  individual  relationships  w 
students.  I  am  interested,  however,  in  experiencing  this  ful 
class  situation. 


^dy's  design  was  to  see  how  much 
npathy  he  had  among  his  classmates. 

Vien  he  found  he  had  none,  he  felt 
easy  and  decided  he  could  not  get 
lat  he  wanted  out  of  the  course. 

i  left. 


nday,  October  2 

e  again,  my  plans  were  foiled.  I  expected  five  students 
ee  new  ones)  and  instead  found  eleven.  I  had  only  two 
e  books;  I  panicked.  I  explained  about  the  course  and 
:d  each  one  what  they  wanted  to  do.  I  expected  this  to 

up  some  time;  it  did  —  about  three  seconds  worth,  it 
ned.  I  thought  of  handing  out  pencils  and  paper  and  having 
inmates  write  their  intentions  for  a  sample  of  their  writing; 
scovered  that  I  only  had  four  pencils.  I  asked  Captain  Bird, 

happened  to  come  in  at  that  time,  if  I  could  dismiss  the 
s  until  I  bought  books. 

Fortunately,  however,  Professor  Schachterle  was  there  and 
volunteered  his  service  to  help  me  through  the  evening.  He 
ated,  more  coherently,  what  I  had  said  and  asked  if  there 

any  questions.  He  tried  to  make  Larry  read  his  short 
'y,  to  start  a  discussion  about  creative  writing.  Larry 
ised,  but  instead  volunteered  to  tell  what  a  short  story 
nt   to    him.    He   spoke    negatively    about   William    Carlos 


Williams's  "The  Use  of  Force,"  the  only  story  in  the  text  he 
had  read.  Since  the  story  was  only  four  pages  long,  1  asked 
Larry  to  read  it  aloud.  He  did,  and  a  good  discussion  ensued. 

After  this  discussion,  Larry  asked  if  Professor  Schachterle 
would  continue  with  the  class  and  if  I  would  help  him  end  his 
short  story.  His  short  story  is  by  no  means  a  masterpiece,  but 
is  still  quite  good  in  that  it  evokes  the  reader's  sympathy  for 
the  protagonist. 

On  my  return  after  break,  the  students  were  writing  about 
what  they  wanted  from  the  course.  I  collected  these  writing 
samples  at  the  end  of  class.  Meeting  eleven  students  was  a 
frightening  experience,  but  a  good  lesson:  I  was  not  prepared 
for  the  unexpected  although  I  should  have  learned  by  now  to 
be  prepared.  Worse  than  that,  I  panicked  and  gave  up.  A 
teacher  should  always  have  on  reserve  a  few  relevant  topics  for 
discussion  to  utilize  during  lulls  in  classroom  conversation. 
Quite  often  these  ideas  and  discussions  can  be  very  informa- 
tive. Professor  Schachterle  advised  me  to  make  a  list  of  these 
things  and  incorporate  them  in  my  journal.  Those  he  sug- 
gested, along  with  others  I  have  thought  of,  are  as  follows: 

1.  What  is  Literature? 

2.  Why  do  writers  write? 

3.  For  whom  do  writers  write? 

4.  Is  what  they  write  the  truth? 

5.  Is  it  open  to  criticism? 

6.  What  do  writers  seem  to  write  about  most?  Why? 

7.  What   is  the  difference  between  a  short  story  writer 
and  an  orator;  a  clergyman;  a  poet? 

8.  What   are   the   different   ways   of  telling   a   story  — 
(points  of  view)?  Why  choose  one  over  the  other? 

9.  What  is  the  importance  of  writing? 

10.  What  are  some  of  the  problems  of  writing? 

11.  Name  a  famous  (favorite)  writer  —  What  about  him; 
his  style?  the  period? 

12.  Ask  students  to  write  on  a  topic  of  their  choice. 

13.  Have  a  good,  brief,  short  story  or  poem  handy  to  read 
aloud  and  discuss. 

Many  of  these  topics  appear  to  have  obvious  answers  but 
many  times  the  course  of  the  discussion  of  one  topic  will  lead 
to  another  topic.  I  must  reiterate  that  this  manner  of 
discussion  should  only  be  used  as  a  last  resort.  By  no  means 
should  the  teacher  rely  on  the  students  to  carry  on  the 
instruction:  students  are  more  at  ease  if  they  are  told  facts, 
and  will  at  times  be  unreceptive  to  venturing  their  own 
thoughts. 


There  came  a  point  while  I  was  reading 
a  poem  aloud,  where  one  student  was 
trying  to  burn  another's  clothes  with  a 
cigarette.  Everyone  was  laughing. 


Tuesday,  October  3 

A  few  uninterested  students  did  not  return  tonight.  Professor 
Schachterle  and  I  were  able  to  secure  five  copies  of  the  texts 
from  other  WPI  professors  and  friends. 

Those  students  who  had  books  were  prepared  for  the 
discussion  of  "Impulse."  A  black  student  named  Eddie  wanted 
to  read  to  the  class  some  poetry  he  had  written  that  day.  He 
did:  the  poetry  was  controversial.  One  poem  related  to  bad 
treatment  of  the  blacks,  another  to  his  escape  from  the 
problems  of  being  black  through  drugs,  and  the  third  of  how 
"laws  were  written  by  whites -for  whites."  The  poetry  was 
good,  and  very  moving.  There  was  no  student  response, 
however,  for  fear  of  being  judged  improperly  by  other 
inmates.  A  person  disagreeing  that  blacks  are  maltreated,  for 
example,  feared  the  possible  response  from  the  black  popu- 
lation in  jail  if  his  position  were  made  known. 

Eddie's  design  was  to  see  how  much  sympathy  he  had 
among  his  classmates.  When  he  found  he  had  none,  he  felt 
uneasy  and  decided  he  could  not  get  what  he  wanted  out  of 
the  course.  He  left. 

I  now  have  eight  students  and  enough  books  for  all  of 
them.  I  handed  out  the  books  and  assigned  two  stories  to  read 
for  Monday.  1  also  mentioned  that  I  had  read  their  writing 
samples  and  that  I  would  assign  a  writing  practice  so  that  we 
could  overcome  their  elementary  weaknesses. 


Thursday,  October  5 

Discussion  went  well  tonight.  Students  reacted  enthusiastically 
to  "Torch  Song"  and  "Virga  Vay  and  Allan  Cedar"  —  more  to 
the  first  than  the  second.  One  student,  Rich,  shows  consider- 
able intelligence  —  he  has  completed  l'/i  semesters  of  college 
and  reads  various  college  texts  while  he  is  in  prison.  He  began  a 
discussion  of  the  psychology  of  Cheever's  characters  and  asked 
if  Joan  in  "Torch  Song"  were  actually  a  psychic  character,  or 
if  her  existence  were  merely  symbolic. 

After  break,  we  talked  about  prison  life.  It  seems  as  if  only 
the  strong  survive  here.  1  assigned  three  stories  for  the 
weekend,  and  asked  the  students  to  choose  one  story  out  of  all 
those  we  had  read,  and  to  write  about  what  they  thought  the 
author's  point  was.  1  specified  that  they  should  not  rehash  the 
story  but  examine  coherently  the  author's  idea. 


Monday,  October  9 

No  school  —  Columbus  Day  holiday 


Tuesday,  October  10 

Doctor  Charles  Heventhal  came  with  me  tonight  to  obsei 
everything  went  quite  well.  An  older  man  wanted  to  sit  do 
with  us,  and  although  he  hadn't  read  the  stories  he  was  qu 


Tie 
to  expand  upon  the  points  of  life  brought  up.  For  exam|l!li 
Eloise  in  "Uncle  Wiggly  in  Connecticut"  talked  about  how  il« 
male  ego  desires  to  be  fed  to  insure  its  supremacy.  "That's  f  ' 
sure  —  I  know  that  for  a  fact.  When  my  wife  tells  me.  .  .  "  l|-" 
man  would  interject.  p 

Doctor  Heventhal  pointed  out  to  me  that  the  studelf 
were  definitely   of  college   level   intelligence.   The  stories    i< 
discussed   this  evening  were  quite  difficult,  but  the  studei  Jjt 
interpreted   their  meaning   and  were   quite  willing  to  disci 
them.  I  handed  out  four  poems  which  we  were  to  discuss 
Thursday   and   collected   the  writing  assignments  from  th(| 
who  had  them. 

Doctor  Heventhal  brought  me  to  a  local  pub  later,  and 
discussed  how  the  program  should  be  continued.  He  was  qu 
intrigued  and  asked  me  a  lot  of  questions. 


« 


Thursday,  October  12 

I  first  handed  back  the  writing  assignments  and  discussed  sol 
of  the  structural  errors  common  to  all.  Most  errors  occurred 
long  sentences  or  incoherent  paragraphs.  The  thought  contt 
in  the  papers,  however,  was  excellent. 

The  students  began  to  be  bored  with  the  grammar  review  1. 
said  that  I  didn't  know  how  a  high  school  teacher  instruct!  I. 
students  in  grammar  each  day  could  maintain  a  sane  class  I . 
admitted  that  it  would  be  futile  to  try  to  be  a  disciplinary  L 
An  authoritarian  does  not  cure  boredom  but  only  antagonill 
students. 

I    didn't    know    then,    however,   that   the   fooling   arouil 
which  commenced  during  the  boring  grammar  review  wasll 
continue    through    our   discussion    of  the   poetry.    I    tried  l. 
ignore  the  interruptions  as  much  as  possible,  but  had  to  lailL 
with  the  students  at  some  of  the  things  that  were  happcnial. 
There   came   a   point,   however,   while   I   was  reading  a  poql 
aloud,  where  one  student  was  trying  to  burn  another's  clothii 
with  a  cigarette.  Everyone  was  laughing.  I  looked  up  and  sail 
(I  really  can't  remember  exactly)  something  to  the  cltcct  th. 
they   could   fool   around   anytime,  but   asked  \vhv  thev  well 
doing  it  in  class,  wasting  my  time.  I  told  them  it  was  not  cast, 
speaking  to  the  air.  My  tone  was  not  severe  but  they  knew  tIL 
I  was  upset.    They  immediately  settled  down.  May  I  suggest  t'| 
my    successors,    as    long    as    you    are    sure    that    you   are   tfcj 
students'  friend,  that  showing  the  student   he  has  upset  y<M 


rrived  at  the  jail  and  was  informed 
at  school  had  been  canceled  because 
ore  was  no  heat  in  the  jail. 


tonally,  not  simply  you  as  the  teacher,  is  an  effective  way 
egain  the  attention  of  amiable  students.  At  least  it  was  for 

The  poetry  was  a  bit  more  complex  for  the  students  than  I 
anticipated.  1  had  assigned,  among  others,  the  poems 
cause  I  Could  Not  Stop  for  Death"  by  Emily  Dickinson 
"Winter  is  Another  Country"  by  Archibald  MacLeash, 
ch  are  concerned  mainly  with  death.  The  students  ques- 
ted the  poets'  exploitation  of  this  topic,  feeling  it  is  morbid 
perverse.  1  tried  to  explain,  however,  that  poets  choose 
th  as  a  subject  because  of  its  mystique;  since  it  is  the  only 
lg  they  are  certain  to  encounter,  they  care  to  speculate  on 

"To  A  Waterfowl"  was  difficult  only  because  of  its  archaic 

uage.  Once  we  went  over  it  stanza  by  stanza  the  students 

its  meaning  readily. 

I  mentioned  the  structure  of  these  poems  but  did  not  feel 
it  is  very  important  to  go  into  that  subject  in  depth.  The 

t's  meaning  is  most  important  in  a  course  such  as  this. 

'Mending  Wall"  by  Robert  Frost  was  the  poem  I  expected 
(receive  the  largest  response  from,  but  it  seemed  to  be  the 
Kt  difficult  for  the  students  to  grasp.  Its  subject  did, 
JL'ever,  lead  us  into  an  enjoyable  discussion  of  living 
l  ^pendently  in  the  woods  as  opposed  to  living  in  the  city. 

\mday,  October  16 
light,  I  read  aloud  to  the  class  "The  Secret  Life  of  Walter 
ty"  by  James  Thurber.  We  discussed  the  story;  the  students 
ired  to  hear  another  one.  I  let  Dale  read  them  the  short 
y  "If  Grant  Had  Been  Drinking  at  Appomatox,"  which  was 
y  entertaining. 

For  the  second  hour,  I  asked  the  students  to  write  an 
:lass  theme  on  a  topic  of  their  choice.  Two  students 
shed  before  class  was  over,  and  I  discussed  their  work  with 
m  individually.  The  expression  was  quite  good.  There  were 
le  basic  mechanical  problems,  but  these  students  are 
isive;  the  atmosphere  of  the  jail,  I  would  venture  to  say,  has 
ch  to  do  with  this.  The  other  themes  I  read  later  were 
lally  as  good. 
For  Tuesday,  I  assigned  two  more  stories. 

esday,  October  1 7 

lust  admit  that  I  am  saddened  by  the  fact  that  this  is  my 
ct-to-last  meeting  with  the  students.  The  term  has  certainly 
:n  a  valuable  experience.  Professor  Schachterle  and  two 
dents  who  hope  to  pick  up  the  program  when  I  leave  were 


present.  We  discussed,  for  the  first  hour,  "Soldier's  Home"  by 
Hemingway  and  "You  Could  Look  it  Up"  by  Thurber.  The 
discussion  was,  as  usual,  good. 

For  the  second  hour,  although  I  had  planned  to  read  the 
class  an  Ambrose  Bierce  story,  "An  Occurrence  at  Owl  Creek 
Bridge,"  we  discussed  various  life  styles  under  the  pressures  of 
society.  It  was  altogether  informative  and  worthwhile,  and  fit 
in  well  with  the  themes  of  many  of  the  stories  we  have  been 
reading. 

For  Thursday,  I  assigned  two  more  stories. 


Thursday,  October  19 

I  arrived  at  the  jail  and  was  informed  that  school  had  been 
canceled  because  there  was  no  heat  in  the  jail.  I  volunteered  to 
come  back  Monday  to  collect  books  and  pick  up  on  loose 
ends. 

I  received  a  note  Friday  stating  that  Monday's  classes  were 
canceled  due  to  the  Veterans'  Day  holiday. 

When  I  finally  was  able  to  meet  my  class  again  on  Tuesday, 
there  was  a  film  scheduled  for  the  second  hour  of  class.  We 
just  talked  for  the  first  hour,  and  enjoyed  the  film  after  the 
break.  I  was  certain  to  say  good-by  to  each  student  in- 
dividually and  wish  him  my  best. 


Conclusion 

The  teaching  program  at  Worcester  County  Jail  was  one  of  the 
most  informative  educational  experiences  that  I  have  ever  had. 
My  seventeen  meetings  provided  me  with  a  dual  insight.  First, 
I  was  able  to  learn  more  about  living  conditions  in  a  prison, 
and  of  the  dire  need  for  prison  reforms.  The  physical  structure 
of  the  Worcester  County  Jail  is  atrocious;  the  walls  lack  paint, 
the  windows,  glass.  The  fact  that  my  last  scheduled  class  was 
canceled  due  to  lack  of  heat  in  the  jail  is  typical  of  the 
degenerated  environment  imposed  on  inmates.  I  question  how 
a  man  is  supposed  to  be  "rehabilitated"  in  such  a  forboding 
environment. 

Far  worse  than  these  environmental  discomforts,  however, 
is  the  physical  and  mental  stress  on  the  inmates.  Many  of  the 
more  aggressive  prisoners  constantly  test  their  counterparts, 
single  out  those  who  offer  only  an  emotional  response,  and 
continually  ridicule  and  torment  them.  This  atmosphere  of 
hatred  and  violence  is  so  intense  that  one  of  my  students,  a 
relatively  fearless  man  who  is  able  to  work  daily  outside  the 
jail  on  a  farm,  still  suffers  from  nervous  anxiety  and  fits  of 
depression.  The  Worcester  County  Jail  houses  inmates  serving 
up  to  two  year  sentences,  and  prisoners  transferred  in  from 


I  encountered  over  and  over  the  fact 
that  I  could  not  rely  on  long-range  plans. 
But  in  the  long  run  I  found  what  was 
accomplished  equaled  or  surpassed 
what  I  had  planned  to  accomplish. 


other  prisons  for  the  final  few  months  of  a  longer  term.  I  have 
been  told  repeatedly  that  conditions  at  this  jail  are  excellent 
compared  with  the  larger  institutions  such  as  Bridgewater  and 
Walpole.  I  could  not  imagine  what  would  have  happened  to  a 
person  such  as  Dale  had  he  been  incarcerated  with  criminal 
deviants  serving  life  terms. 

Secondly,  I  learned  quite  a  bit  about  the  process  of 
teaching.  I  was  happy  to  be  able  to  work  for  part  of  the  time 
in  a  tutorial  situation  as  well  as  part  of  the  time  with  a  larger 
class.  I  found  that  a  relaxed  atmosphere,  in  which  the  teacher 
sits  within  a  circle  of  students,  thus  becoming  part  of  the  class, 
is  an  effective  means  of  stimulating  conversation.  The  teacher 
in  this  situation  is  not  alienated  from  the  student;  the  student 
feels  on  a  more  equal  basis  with  the  teacher,  and  is 
consequently  more  apt  to  ask  questions.  The  teacher  must  not, 
however,  try  to  evoke  discussion  to  the  degree  that  the 
1Q  discussion  becomes  a  game  of  giving  correct  answers  to  the 

teacher's  initial  questions.  This  leads  to  boredom  and  disin- 
terest in  the  continuance  of  a  discussion. 

I  encountered  over  and  over  the  fact  that  I  could  not  rely 
on  long-range  plans.  The  course  of  events  often  disputed  my 
expectations,  but  in  the  long  run  I  found  what  was  accom- 
plished equaled  or  surpassed  the  learning  experience  I  had 
planned  to  accomplish.  I  had  planned,  for  example,  a  relatively 
rigid  course  of  instruction  —  giving  examinations  and  adhering 
to  a  prescribed  syllabus.  This  format  was  suggested  to  me  on 
the  basis  that  inmates  who  wanted  to  reform  themselves  would 
logically  seek  out  some  sort  of  order  to  bring  to  a  like  that 
lacked  order.  My  real  wish,  on  the  contrary,  to  conduct  a  freer 
class  in  which  the  student,  through  reading  and  questioning, 
prescribes  what  he  wants  to  learn.  I  was  quite  relieved,  then, 
when  I  saw  that  the  ordered  curriculum  would  have  been 
futile.  I  was  able  to  conduct  the  course  at  my  pleasure,  and 
judging  from  both  oral  and  written  response  the  students 
received  something  from  the  course.  The  net  result  of  my 
involvement  in  the  course  was  valuable  experience  in  teaching, 
preparation,  discipline,  and  understanding  people.  I  was  also 
able  to  read  many  interesting  short  stories;  the  discussions  of 
the  stories  provided  many  insights  I  might  have  never  received 
by  myself. 

Many  inmates  at  the  Worcester  County  Jail  are  interested  in 
continuing  their  education,  if  for  no  other  reason  than  to 
break  up  the  monotonous  routine  of  prison  life.  Captain  Bird 
and  the  inmates  are  consequently  eager  to  continue  programs 
such  as  this,  not  only  in  English  Literature,  but  in  foreign 
languages,  Mathematics,  Science,  History,  Philosophy,  etc.  The 
opportunity  can  only  be  beneficial  to  all  involved.  The  crucial 
requisite  is  interested,  competent  student  volunteers.  I — I 


lot  rain  or  snow  or  hail  or  sleet  or 
<ark  of  night  .  .  . 

I  case  you've  ever  missed  getting  a  copy  of  the  Journal  or  Newsbriefs,  you 
r  y  have  blamed  it  on  WPI,  or  the  Alumni  Association,  or  the  mails. 

(t  sometimes,  you  know,  it  isn't  any  of  those  things.  And  the  mail  services 
ci  try  pretty  hard  to  deliver  something  before  they  give  up.  Witness  this  copy 
i.  Newsbriefs,  mailed  to  an  alumnus  in  India  on  July  10,  1972.  A  careful 
unt  shows  18  Indian  post  office  stamps  on  the  back  side,  as  well  as  an 
iieterminate  number  of  forwarding  addresses  written  (in  three  shades  of  red 
i  and  five  shades  of  blue)  on  the  front,  each  crossed  off  in  turn  as  it  proved 
\ong.  The  envelope  finally  returned  to  the  WPI  public  relations  office  on 
.  luary  3,  1973.  It  was  much  the  worse  for  wear,  but  someone  along  the  line 
Id  wrapped  it  nicely  with  string. 

I).  If  anyone  out  there  knows  the  whereabouts  of  Mahendrakumar  K.  Patel, 
1 5  '71 ,  would  he  please  let  us  know  .  .  . 


11 


Bill  and 

the  Brother  Machine 


by  Russell  Kaj 


X  t  all  started  around  the  end  of  my  first  year.  I  was  getting 
pretty  bored  with  just  classes  —  so  I  finally  decided  to  do 
something.  I  went  down  to  the  Worcester  Volunteer  Action 
Center  and  1  discovered  that  there  are  some  3,500  fatherless 
children  in  Worcester  County,  and  that  got  to  me." 

William  Delphos,  74,  the  21 -year-old  director  of  Student 
Programs  for  Urban  Development,  Inc.  (SPUD),  heads  up  a 
cadre  of  over  300  student  volunteers  working  in  several  major 
programs  in  the  Worcester  community.  The  project  closest  to 
Bill's  heart,  though,  is  the  Big  Brother  program. 

From  the  Volunteer  Action  Center,  Bill  found  his  way  to 
the  Worcester  branch  of  Big  Brothers  of  America.  This 
organization  was  formed  to  provide,  on  a  one-to-one  basis, 
male  companionship  —  a  father  figure  —  to  fatherless  boys. 

But  then  things  ground  to  a  halt  for  Bill.  The  Big  Brother 
organization  was  against  the  idea  of  using  college  students  as 
big  brothers  because  the  students  were  only  around  for  nine 
months  a  year  and  would  normally  be  involved  in  the  program 
for  no  more  than  two  to  four  years. 

Persistence  paid  off,  though,  and  this  was  an  idea  whose 
time  had  come.  Delphos  won  a  trial  of  what  was  called  the 
"Associate"  Big  Brother  program,  and  then  started  advertising 
at  WPI  for  volunteers.  Within  a  short  time  he  had  75 
applicants. 

The  method  used  to  pair  big  brothers  and  little  brothers  is 
a  careful  and  sometimes  slow  process  of  matching  interests 
and,  hopefully,  personalities.  First  of  all,  contact  is  made  with 
the  child's  mother,  to  ensure  that  nothing  is  against  her  wishes 
—  that  would  only  aggravate  an  already  complicated  situation, 
to  the  child's  detriment.  With  the  mother's  approval,  the  child 
is  tentatively  matched  with  a  volunteer. 

By  serving  as  a  sort  of  secretary  in  the  Big  Brother 
organization,  Delphos  was  introduced  to  the  matching  process, 
and  to  the  need  for  care  right  at  the  beginning.  Within  four 
weeks  or  so,  they  had  matched  some  forty  students  with  little 
brothers. 

Actually,  according  to  Bill,  there  is  a  unique  advantage  to 
using  college  students  as  big  brothers.  Because  of  his  age,  the 
student  is  more  like  a  real  big  brother  and  can  relate  to  his 
little  brother  in  a  way  that  is  probably  denied  to  someone 
older.  He  can  be  a  friend,  pretty  much  on  the  little  brother's 
own  level. 

Bill  worked  on  the  program  for  nearly  a  year,  matching  up 
big  and  little  brothers,  "policing"  the  volunteers  to  make  sure 
that  they  were  spending  enough  time  with  their  charges  (the 
usual  expectation  is  a  couple  of  hours,  one  visit  a  week). 


Last  May,  while  organizing  a  SPUD  banquet,  Bill  was: 
the  office  of  a  local  businessman.  Talking  with  his  secretary 
Bill  discovered  that  she  was  separated  and  had  a  twelve-yea  j 
old  son.  "Up  to  that  time,  1  had  felt  that  I  had  too  much  I 
do,  organizing  the  program,  to  take  on  a  little  brother  myselj 
But  at  this  point  I  thought  that  maybe  I  could  handle  it, ; 
least  on  a  limited  basis."  He  got  approval  from  the  Big  Brothi 
office  and  that  weekend  took  his  little  brother  to  the  WPI  gyi 
to  play  basketball,  wrestle,  and  in  general  just  enjoy  some  tim 
together. 

"You  know,  you  can  do  some  pretty  screwy  things  an 
have  fun.  When  we  were  in  the  showers,  we  started  playin 
hockey  with  a  bar  of  soap  and  our  bare  feet  —  and  we  kept 
up  for  45  minutes!"  Bill  goes  on: 

"He  talked  sports  with  me  for  a  long  time  —  talking  aboi 
the  teams,  and  big  names,  and  scores  and  things.  It  reminde 
me  of  the  way  I  used  to  talk  with  my  older  brother.  There 
just  about  the  same  age  difference." 

Athletics  and  sports  play  a  big  part  in  the  program 
because  most  boys  are  interested  in  them  and  they  form  . 
readily  accessible  common  ground.  One  of  the  first  thing 
Delphos  did  after  organizing  the  program  was  to  see  Professo 
Robert  Pritchard,  head  of  the  WPI  department  of  physic.! 
education  and  athletics,  to  arrange  for  free  passes  for  the  littli 
brothers  in  the  program.  This  enables  the  student  big  brother 
to  offer  more  to  their  little  brothers  with  no  hardship  tt 
themselves.  Free  admission  to  movies  sponsored  by  Lens  as 
Lights  Club  was  also  arranged,  along  with  meals  in  thi 
cafeteria. 

There  have  been  some  problems  with  the  project.  Sonx 
students  volunteered  with  not  the  best  intentions,  seeing  thi 


"When  we  were  in  the  showers,  we 
started  playing  hockey  with  a  bar  of 
soap  and  our  bare  feet— and  we  kept 
it  up  for  45  minutes." 


"He  told  me  that  he  thought  I  was 
terrible  the  first  time  we  met,  but  he 
got  to  like  me  more  as  time  went  on 
until  he  liked  me  so  much  he  really 
couldn't  say  it  well." 


brother  as  some  kind  of  project,  material  for  a  social 

ice  term  paper,  a  ready-made  case  study.  Volunteers  like 

:  are  assiduously  weeded  out;  the  volunteer's  commitment 

:  be  to  the  little  brother,  not  to  some  other  motivation. 

're  not  trying  to  play  God,  but  we  just  can't  allow  the  kids 

[jie  program  to  be  hurt,"  says  Delphos.  "We  don't  have  any 

ti mous  objection  to  a  volunteer  writing  a  paper  about  his 

I    brother,  but  that  can  never  be  the  reason  the  volunteer 

4  into  the  program.  The  child  —  and  concern  and  friendship 

mim  —  always  comes  first." 

jThe  little  brothers  are  screened  somewhat,  too.  "We  have 
■  iy  away  from  the  kid  with  severe  emotional  hangups,  the 
I  delinquents.  As  big  brothers,  we're  not  really  social 
G^ers;  the  emphasis  is  low-key,  based  on  trying  to  develop  a 
I friendship  between  two  people." 

'Another  thing,  you  have  to  be  consistent.  You  can't  say 
r  thing  today  and  then  try  and  qualify  it  tomorrow.  If 
Be's  anything  phony,  those  kids  will  spot  it  right  away.  You 
a:  to  set  a  sincere  example,  because  your  little  brother  needs 
3  e  able  to  depend  on  you. 

'You  know,"  says  Bill,  "1  see  a  lot  of  myself  in  this 
n;ram.  If  you  hit  it  off  at  all,  then  after  a  while  your  little 
iti  hers  starts  to  reflect  you  a  little  bit  —  starts  to  show  your 
pence.  At  one  point,  I  told  my  little  brother  I  thought  I 
al  changed  a  lot  during  the  eight  months  we  had  been 
I  ther.  I  was  more  interested  in  people  and  had  been  giving 
i  aght  to  my  career  plans.  He  said  that  he  had  changed  a  lot, 
y  that  at  the  beginning  he  had  not  liked  people  very  much 
n  had  few  friends  at  school  —  but  that  just  the  previous 
Ik  he  had  formed  a  club  of  boys  and  was  president.  He  told 
l  that  he  thought  I  was  terrible  the  first  time  we  met,  but  he 
c  to  like  me  more  as  time  went  on  until  he  liked  me  so  much 
e  really  couldn't  say  it  well.  I  thought  this  was  really 
Tortant  since  he  talked  so  openly  about  himself.  This  was 
h  first  time  he  had  done  this. 

'We  share  a  lot  of  good  times,  my  little  brother  and  I.  And 
wstimes  I  can  do  something  for  him  that's  really  nice.  For 
ttfc.nce,  his  birthday  is  four  days  after  Christmas,  and  he  just 
ued  thirteen.  This  was  kind  of  a  not-so-pleasant  birthday 
Miim  this  year  —  no  one  seemed  to  know  what  to  get  him, 
ro  I  was  away.  Well,  he's  a  real  nut  on  basketball,  so  I  got 
it  a  ticket  to  the  Celtics  game  and  mailed  it  from  Chicago.  I 
g  I  could  have  been  there  to  see  him  open  it;  his  mother 
:t  me  he  really  lit  up.  Now  he  can't  wait  until  next 
/«nesday,  when  we're  going." 


A  short  while  after  Bill  started  the  Associate  Big  Brother 
program,  he  was  approached  by  a  student  from  Holy  Cross,  a 
leader  in  a  group  called  Student  Programs  for  Urban  Develop- 
ment, Inc.  —  SPUD  —  who  volunteered  the  backing  and 
resources  of  SPUD  in  exchange  for  Bill's  becoming  the  WPI 
representative  of  SPUD,  publicizing  its  activities  on  campus 
and  helping  recruit  new  members. 

"I  was  kind  of  leery  at  first.  .  .  .  you  get  awfully  conscious 
of  the  possibility  of  being  exploited.  .  .  .  but  it  seemed  as  if  it 
would  work  out  well  for  both  our  groups,"  remembers  Bill. 

SPUD  actually  began  at  the  College  of  the  Holy  Cross  in 
1965,  a  period  when  student  social  involvement  in  community 
affairs  was  at  a  peak,  when  if  you  were  a  student  it  was  the 
"in"  thing  to  do  —  a  successor  to  the  student-oriented  civil 
rights  movement  in  the  early  sixties,  a  predecessor  to  the 
political  activism  that  was  to  shake  the  nation  in  the  late 
sixties  because  of  the  war  in  Viet  Nam.  SPUD  started  off 
oriented  toward  urban  problems.  It  worked  with  tenants 
associations  concerned  with  public  housing,  with  tutoring 
projects,  with  a  number  of  "street"  problems. 

Gradually,  SPUD's  attention  began  focusing  on  work  with 
children  —  and  usually  children  from  the  same  urban  areas 
SPUD  had  previously  worked  in:  the  Model  Cities  area,  and 
the  Great  Brook  Valley  and  Plumley  Village  subsidized- 
housing  projects.  And  with  all  of  this,  it  outgrew  Holy  Cross 
and  brought  in  significant  participation  from  students  at  WPI, 
Clark  University,  and  other  schools  in  the  Worcester  Con- 
sortium. Naturally,  when  they  heard  about  the  growing 
Associate  Big  Brother  program,  they  were  interested  in 
affiliating  the  two. 

SPUD  (which  is  entirely  student-run)  has  some  funding  of 
its  own  -  a  small  part,  in  fact,  from  the  WPI  Student  Affairs 
budget  —  and  it  has  used  this  in  several  ways  to  benefit  the  Big 
Brother  program.  Last  year,  the  Big  Brother  association  held  a 
Christmas  party  for  all  the  participants;  SPUD  dipped  into  its 
pocket  and  furnished  Bozo  the  clown  and  a  magician  for 
entertainment.  Other  resources  are  SPUD's  two  vehicles,  which 
are  available  to  big  brothers  to  take  their  little  brothers  on 
excursions. 

When  Delphos  was  asked  how  many  students  are  involved 
in  SPUD,  he  reluctantly  said  "around  300."  He  was  quick  to 
qualify  that:  "It's  really  hard  to  say.  The  program  is  kind  of 
self-expanding.  Just  last  week  I  matched  up  a  seventh-grade 
girl  with  a  student  math  tutor.  Now  the  girl  has  a  friend  who 
would    also    like    to    be   tutored,   and   the  student   tutor  has 


arranged  for  one  of  her  friends  to  do  that.  So  that  they're  both 
really  a  part  of  SPUD,  but  I  almost  didn't  know  about  the 
second  one." 

"A  lot  of  our  volunteers  are  WPI  students;  a  lot  are  from 
Holy  Cross.  Clark  has  many  of  its  own  programs,  which  are 
organized  differently  from  SPUD's.  The  Big  Brother  program 
alone  has,  1  would  guess,  some  sixty  to  seventy  students 
involved  now.  I  think  this  will  probably  continue  to  grow  for 
at  least  another  couple  of  years  before  any  leveling-off  takes 
place." 

Big  Brothers  is  but  one  of  several  programs  included  in 
SPUD,  which  also  acts  as  a  kind  of  clearing-house  for  other 
volunteer  action  groups,  including  the  Worcester  Tenants 
Association  and  The  Great  Brook  Valley  Child  Care  Compre- 
hensive Service. 

The  other  main  project  centers  are  located  at: 

1.  Worcester  Detention  Center 

Here,  ten  volunteers  each  spend  one  night  a  week  providing 
supervision  for  swimming,  bowling,  ice-skating,  movies,  and 
other  kinds  of  recreation.  French  and  Spanish-speaking  volun- 
teers are  available  for  tutoring.  "It's  kind  of  hard  to  say  how 
many  people  SPUD  reaches,"  says  Bill.  "At  the  Detention 
Center,  no  one  is  kept  there  longer  than  fourteen  days.  .  .  the 
turnover  is  terrific.  Our  volunteers  keep  at  it,  and  they  come  in 
contact  with  hundreds  of  new  people  every  month.  Who  can 
say  how  many  in  the  several  years  this  program  has  been  in 
operation?" 

2.  Woodland  Community  School 

Volunteers  are  presently  working  in  such  areas  as  tutoring  in 
math,  reading,  and  English  as  a  second  language.  The  after- 
school  program  encompasses  such  interests  as  dramatics, 
meteorology,  cooking,  ceramics,  typing,  music,  athletics,  arts 
and  crafts,  creative  play  activities,  or  any  other  thing  which 
the  children  and  volunteers  are  interested  in. 

3.  Green  Island 

A  tutoring  program  here  involves  remedial  work  and  behavior 
modification  in  conjunction  with  the  Worcester  public  school 
system.  Also  included  are  a  drop-in  center  and  an  arts  and 
crafts  program.  A  free  breakfast  program  runs  in  conjunction 
with  this  project  in  the  Kelly  Square  area. 

4.  Worcester  Rehabilitation  Center 

For  this  program,  volunteers  are  trained  to  work  with  visually 
and  physically  handicapped  children  up  to  twelve  years  of  age. 
Working  on  a  one-to-one  basis,  the  volunteers  pick  up  in  the 
evening,  two  nights  a  week,  the  work  begun  during  the  day, 
carrying  it  along  in  the  child's  home. 


Bill  Delphos 

5.  South  Worcester 

Volunteers  provide  a  number  of  different  services  he 
tutoring,  recreational  activities,  and  special  interest  grou 
such  as  a  science  club  and  stamp  collecting. 

"The  South  Worcester  program  is  really  phenomena 
according  to  Delphos.  "A  year  ago  it  started  with  may 
twenty  kids  from  the  community.  Now  there  are  over  r 
hundred,  and  they've  had  to  go  to  split  sessions!  Bernie  Con 
(Holy  Cross,  '74),  who  is  co-director  of  SPUD,  has  don< 
really  fantastic  job  in  South  Worcester.  One  thing  that  I 
really  worked  out  well  is  to  insist  that  the  parents  of  the  k 
spend  some  time  on  a  regular  basis  with  the  program.  Some 
them  come  kind  of  grudgingly,  but  they  usually  get  turned 
by  something  and  add  considerably  to  the  value  of  I 
project." 


"You  have  to  be  consistent.  If  there's 
anything  phony,  those  kids  will  spot 
it  right  away." 


"We  didn't  need  the  money,  really;  we 
just  wanted  to  let  people  know  about 
us.  But  I  am  firmly  convinced  that  if 
you  can  get  someone  not  just  to  come 
but  to  also  invest  ten  or  twenty 
dollars  of  his  own  money,  then  he 
will  remember  you  a  lot  longer." 


E  DINNER 

i  of  the  standout  events  in  SPUD's  seven-year  history  was  a 

Rner  held  last  May.  It  served  to  announce  SPUD's  presence 
the  Worcester  community,  and  it  raised  over  $3,000  for  the 
anization.  It  was  in  large  measure  the  work  of  Bill  Delphos. 

When  the  concept  was  formulated,  Bill  had  some  definite 
as  of  how  the  dinner  should  be  handled.  "We  didn't  need 

money,  really;  we  just  wanted  to  let  people  know  about 
But  I  am  firmly  convinced  that  if  you  can  get  someone  to 

just  come  but  to  also  invest  ten  or  twenty  dollars  of  his 
n  money,  then  he  will  remember  you  a  lot  longer." 

So  the  dinner  began.  First  of  all,  Bill  got  a  hall  in  the  new 
rcester  Center  donated.  Then  he  went  to  grocery  distribu- 
:1s,  meat  packers,  wine  wholesalers,  asking  for  donations. 
')  tried  getting  all  of  them  into  the  act  by  saying  'well 
;cind-so  gave  us  three  cases  of  canned  peas,  and  we're  going 
:cbe  thanking  them  in  the  program  for  it.  Would  you  like  to 
}«  there  too?'  "  And  the  snowball  kept  rolling.  "A  rental 
ctnpany  lent  us,  free,  650  place  settings,  plus  ash  trays, 
i€ving  pieces,  the  works.  The  guy  said:  'Look,  I'm  letting  you 
*e  over  $1,800  worth  of  rental  equipment  here.  Could  you 
K  rinse  it  off  a  little  afterwards  so  it's  not  all  caked  on?' 
ml,  we  took  everything  back  to  my  fraternity  house 
ifcrwards,  and  everyone  chipped  in  and  we  washed  every- 
:lng.  We  had  racks  of  dishes  everywhere,  drying,  until  we 
:|ild  take  them  all  back!" 

j  With  all  of  this,  there  still  remained  the  task  of  getting 
pople  to  come.  Here,  Bill  used  his  tried  and  proven  tactics. 
Id  go  to  see  one  company  in  town,  and  they'd  maybe  agree 
ti  buy  a  few  seats.  And  I'd  say,  'Gee,  the  XYZ  company 
bught  a  whole  table.  You  know,  these  are  recognition  tables, 
ad  the  company's  name  will  be  put  on  it,  and  everyone  there 
(111  know  about  their  commitment  to  the  goals  of  SPUD.'  "  It 
wrked  just  fine  .  .  .  and  over  two  hundred  tickets  were  sold. 

I  After  plans  were  well  under  way,  the  SPUD  dinner  also 
trned  into  WPI's  first  interactive  project.  He  was  discussing  it 
vth  John  van  Alstyne,  dean  of  academic  advising,  one  day, 
«ien  Dean  van  Alstyne  asked:  "You're  studying  on  the  WPI 
tin.  aren't  vou?  This  is  a  perfect  example  of  an  interactive 
poject  [a  project  outside  the  student's  major  field,  which 
rates  his  studies  to  social  needs]."  And  so  it  was  that  the 
cmer,  which  Bill  was  committed  to  anyway,  turned  out  to 
flfill  one  of  his  degree  requirements.  In  order  to  meet  project 
iquirements,  Bill  had  to  devise  a  title  for  the  dinner  in  25 
liters  or  less.  The  result:  Selling  a  Share  in  Youth. 


Bill  Delphos  has  obviously  already  made  a  mark  at  WPI. 
Majoring  in  business,  his  primary  interest  now  is  in  organiza- 
tional structure,  and  he  intends  for  his  qualifying  project  in  his 
major  field  to  do  a  study  of  institutional  effectiveness  among 
small  New  England  colleges.  Later  on,  he  would  like  to  look  at 
the  effects  of  Russian  technology  on  the  fishing  community  of 
Gloucester,  Massachusetts.  He  has  been  thinking  of  going  to 
England  next  year  to  study.  .  .  and  maybe  even  to  Russia  (he 
taught  himself  Russian  a  few  years  ago).  Bill  is  the  son  of 
Philip  R.  Delphos,  '26,  a  WPI  trustee  emeritus  who  lives  in 
Falmouth,  Massachusetts. 

"While  I'm  not  quite  sure  just  what  I  want  to  do,  I  have 
decided  that  I  am  going  to  play  the  organizational  game  for  a 
while,"  Bill  says.  Do  you  suppose  we  ought  to  warn  the 
Russians  he's  coming?  LJ 


Completed 
Careers 


16 


RICHARD  J.  DEARBORN!.  '03 

Richard  J.  Dearborn  died  November  20  in 
Morristown,  New  Jersey.  He  was  90. 

Mr.  Dearborn,  who  was  born  in  Man- 
chester, N.H.,  graduated  as  an  electrical 
engineer  from  WPI  and  later  received  his 
law  degree  from  Chicago  School  of  Law.  A 
retired  patent  attorney,  he  had  been  a  partner 
in  the  law  firm  of  Cooper,  Dunham,  Dear- 
born, and  Henninger. 

For  a  number  of  years  he  was  associated 
with  Texaco-lnc,  and  had  been  president 
and  director  of  many  of  the  firm's  affiliates. 

A  member  of  the  American  Bar  Associa- 
tion and  the  American  Patent  Law  Associa- 
tion, Mr.  Dearborn  was  the  author  of 
"Patents".  He  was  also  active  in  the  Alumni 
Association  and  at  one  time  served  as  vice 
president  of  the  Pittsburgh  chapter.  In  1963 
he  received  the  Robert  H.  Goddard  Award 
from  the  association  in  recognition  of  his 
professional  achievements. 

EDWIN  M.  ROBERTS,  '04 

Edwin  M.  Roberts,  92,  died  on  October  18, 
1972  in  Hyannis,  Massachusetts. 

A  native  of  Andover,  he  graduated  as  a 
mechanical  engineer  from  WPI  in  1904. 
From  1922  until  his  retirement  in  1949  he 
was  a  teacher  of  industrial  arts  in  Worcester 
high  schools.  Earlier  he  had  taught  at 
Lebanon,  N.H.;  Governor  Dummer  Acad- 
emy; Stamford,  Conn.;  and  at  Holyoke  and 
Lowell,  Mass. 

Following  World  War  I  he  joined  the  re- 
habilitation programs  at  Saranac  Lake,  N.Y., 
as  a  Veteran's  Bureau  training  officer. 

SIDNEY  W.  FARNSWORTH,  '06 

Sidney  W.  Farnsworth,  a  WPI  trustee 
emeritus,  died  in  December  in  New  Jersey. 

The  retired  chairman  of  the  board  of 
Torrington  (Conn.)  Mfg.  Co.,  he  was  born 
in  Lancaster,  Mass.  on  October  23,  1886. 
After  receiving  his  BS  in  electrical  engineer- 
ing from  WPI,  he  became  associated  with 
Underwriters  Laboratory,  Inc.,  Chicago,  and 
later  with  Westinghouse  Electric  in  Pitts- 
burgh. In  1917  he  became  an  associate 
scientific  attache  serving  the  American  Em- 
bassy in  London. 

After  holding  positions  as  chief  engineer 
for  the  U.S.  Post  Office  Department,  Wash- 
ington. D.C.,  and  vice  president  of  Case- 
Pomeroy  &  Company,  New  York  City,  he 
created  the  New  York  investment  and 
management  firm  of  S.  W.  Farnsworth,  Inc. 


He  also  became  president  of  Amos  L.  Be 
Company,  Inc.,  served  with  the  OPM 
Washington,  D.C.,  and  acted  as  a  membei 
the  Navy  Price  Adjustment  Board  in  N' 
York. 

In  1945  he  joined  the  Torrington  Compa 
as  president  and  in  1953  he  became  cha 
man  of  the  board. 

Mr.  Farnsworth,  who  was  a  member 
Alpha  Tau  Omega  and  Sigma  Xi,  complet 
the  full  four-year  course  at  WPI  at  the  a 
of  19,  the  youngest  graduate  ever  record 
at  the  college.  From  1952  to  1962  he  w 
an  active  trustee.  In  1967  he  received 
honorary  doctorate  of  engineering  degi 
from  WPI. 

PERCY  C.  SMITH,  '07 

Percy  C.  Smith  died  in  East  Orange,  Nf 
Jersey  on  September  7,  1972. 

Mr.  Smith,  who  was  born  on  Feb.  7,  18i 
at  Amherst,  Mass.,  studied  electrical  eni 
neering  at  WPI.  Following  graduation 
became  associated  with  the  Ohio  Bra 
Company,  Mansfield,  Ohio,  the  Unit 
States  Patent  Office,  and  Roberts,  Robe 
&  Cushman,  Boston. 

For  30  years  he  was  a  patent  attorney  I 
Western  Electric  Co.  and  Bell  Telepho 
Laboratories,  New  York  City.  He  retired 
1950. 


WILLIAM  R.  WOOD,  '07 

William  R.  Wood  passed  away  on  Augi 
2,  1972  in  Atlanta,  Georgia. 

He  was  born  on  April  1,  1877  in  W< 
Martinsburg,  N.Y.,  and  later  studied  ela 
trical  engineering  at  WPI.  After  working  I 
the  Brooklyn  (N.Y.)  Rapid  Transit,  and  tl 
Third  Ave.  Railway  Co.,  New  York  City, 
moved  to  Brazil  where  he  was  associati 
with  the  Rio  de  Janeiro  Tramway  L  &  P  C 
and  the  Sao  Paulo  Tramway  from  19' 
until  his  retirement  in  1950. 

Mr.  Wood  belonged  to  the  Americi 
Electric  Railway  Association  and  the  Amei 
can  Chamber  of  Commerce  in  Sao  Paul 
Brazil. 

ALFRED  E.  GALE,  '13 

Alfred  E.  Gale  died  November  15,  1972 

his  home  in  Penney  Farms,  Florida. 

He  was  born  in  Newport.  Vt.,  on  Man 
2,  1889.  He  was  a  mechanical  engineerif 
student  at  WPI  and  a  member  of  Theta  C 
Fraternity. 


sr  39  years  he  was  an  employee  of  New 
and  Fire  Insurance  Rating  Association, 
:on,  Mass.  He  retired  in  1  959. 

LIP  P.  MURDICK,  "16 

ip  P.  Murdick,  77,  died  September  16, 
32  in  St.  Petersburg,  Florida. 

e  was  born  in  Rutland,  Vt.,  and  attended 
V'  where  he  graduated  as  a  chemist  in 
95.  For  38  years  he  was  a  bio-chemist 
i/|i  the  New  York  State  Department  of 
1c Ith  in  Albany. 

,lr.  Murdick  was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma 
;a|oa  and  the  American  Chemical  Society. 

U.PH  N.  S.  MERRITT,  SR.,  '17 

icih  N.  S.  Merritt,  Sr.,  78,  passed  away  on 
(fiber  4,  1972  in  Lake  Worth,  Florida. 

e  was  born  in  Cohoes,  N.Y.,  and  in  1 91 7 
eraduated  as  a  mechanical  engineer  from 
tfi  where  he  was  a  member  of  Tau  Beta 
'i.'Sigma  Xi,  and  Skull. 

or  34  years  he  was  a  product  safety 
rtneer  at  Norton  Co.,  Worcester,  retiring 
l  959.  He  was  also  a  retired  Navy  Com- 
uder  and  had  served  in  World  War  II. 
i  earlier  years  he  was  associated  with 
Irnpton  and  Knowles  and  Heald  Machine 
fWorcester  and  Nordyke  &  Marmon, 
>anapolis. 

Ir.  Merritt,  who  was  a  former  secretary- 
■€5urer  of  the  Worcester  Chapter  of  the 
ilnni  Association,  was  a  member  of  ASM  E, 
rthe  Massachusetts  and  National  Society 
f  rofessional  Engineers.  He  was  a  registered 
ressional  engineer  in  the  state  of  Massa- 
ftsetts. 

IHRLES  A.  THRASHER,  "17 

)lrles  A.  Thrasher  passed  away  August 
>1972  in  Greenville,  South  Carolina. 

e  was  born  in  Buckland,  Mass.  on  Sept. 
,  891.  He  received  his  BS  in  civil  engi- 
eing  from  WPI.  He  was  a  member  of 
2ibda  Chi  Alpha  Fraternity. 

ntil  his  retirement  Mr.  Thrasher  served 
iTiany  years  as  vice  president  and  chief 
rineer  at  Daniel  Construction  Company, 
li,  Greenville,  S.C.  He  belonged  to  the 
cth  Carolina  Society  of  Professional 
rineers. 

lPRED  A.  FIGENBAUM,  '24 

.hd  A.  Figenbaum  of  Teaneck,  N.J., 
a;ed  away  recently. 

native  of  West  Springfield,  Mass.,  he 


later  studied  electrical  engineering  at  WPI 
where  he  was  a  member  of  Alpha  Tau 
Omega. 

He  retired  as  personnel  director  at  New 
York  Telephone  Co.,  New  York  City  after 
more  than  thirty  years  of  service.  Formerly 
he    was    district    traffic    superintendent. 

PAULA.  DAVIS,  '25 

Paul  A.  Davis,  69,  died  in  Red  Bank,  New 
Jersey  last  October. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  received  his  BS  in 
electrical  engineering  from  WPI  in  1925. 
He  was  associated  with  Electronics  Asso- 
ciates, Inc.,  West  Long  Branch,  N.J.  for 
many  years  and  was  directly  involved  in  the 
formation  of  the  company.  Prior  to  his  retire- 
ment in  1968  he  held  the  position  of  coor- 
dinator for  international  marketing. 

From  1940  until  1952  he  was  employed 
as  administrative  director  of  the  New  Equip- 
ment Introductory  Staff,  Office  of  the  Chief 
Signal  Officer,  U.S.  Army,  at  the  Pentagon, 
Washington,  D.C. 

Mr.  Davis  was  formerly  president  of  the 
New  Haven  Chapter  of  the  Alumni  Associ- 
ation. 

RICHARD  P.  HOULIHAN,  '26 

Richard  P.  Houlihan,  former  president  of  the 
Gavitt  Wire  and  Cable  Co.,  died  November 
11,  1972  in  East  Brookfield,  Massachusetts. 
He  was  68. 

He  was  born  in  Springfield.  In  1926  he 
graduated  from  WPI  as  an  electrical  engineer. 

In  1936  he  joined  Gavitt  Wire  and  Cable 
Co.,  where  he  was  appointed  general 
manager  in  1954,  vice  president  in  1957, 
and  president  in  1959.  He  retired  in  January 
of  1972.  Previously  he  had  worked  for 
Westinghouse  Electric,  Erie  Resistor  Corp. 
and  United  American  Bosch  Corp. 

During  World  War  II  he  was  a  Marine 
lieutenant  colonel. 

HARRY  B.  ZACKRISON,  '26 

Harry  B.  Zackrison,  68,  who  retired  two 
years  ago  as  chief  of  the  engineering 
division  for  military  construction  of  the 
Army  Corps  of  Engineers,  died  November 
16,  1972. 

Mr.  Zackrison  was  a  pioneer  in  improved 
design  of  military  construction.  In  1970  The 
American  Concrete  Institute  awarded  him 
the  Turner  Gold  Medal  in  recognition  of  his 
outstanding  contributions.  He  also  received 
the    1970    F.    Stuart    Fitzpatrick    Memorial 


Award  from  the  leading  professional  societies 
in  the  construction  industry.  It  was  the  first 
time  the  Fitzpatrick  award  was  made  to  an 
engineer  and  government  official. 

In  1969  he  was  named  by  Engineering 
News-Record  as  one  of  the  outstanding 
men  in  construction  for  his  role  in  establish- 
ing the  Corps  Construction  Engineering  Re- 
search Laboratory.  His  achievements  have 
also  been  cited  by  Lt.  Gen.  F.  J.  Clarke, 
chief  of  engineers. 

He  was  born  in  Bridgeport,  Conn.,  and 
graduated  from  WPI  as  a  civil  engineer.  He 
was  a  member  of  Tau  Beta  Pi  and  Sigma  Xi. 


EVERETT  D.  GIBBS,  '28 

Everett  D.  Gibbs,  vice  president  of  Com- 
munication Associates,  Inc.,  Huntington 
Station,  New  York,  passed  away  January 
13,1972. 

He  was  born  in  Clinton,  Mass.,  on  May 
14,  1907.  In  1928  he  received  his  BS  in 
electrical  engineering  from  WPI  where  he 
was  a  member  of  Alpha  Tau  Omega  Fra- 
ternity. 

Prior  to  joining  the  Associates  in  1  959, 
he  was  affiliated  with  Erco  Radio  Labs, 
Garden  City,  N.Y.;  Radio  Receptor,  Inc., 
New  York  City;  and  Bendix  Radio  Corp. 

Mr.  Gibbs  was  a  member  of  IRE  and  the 
U.S.  Power  Squadron. 

CHARLES  L.  LAVEZZOLI,  '38 

Charles  L.  Lavezzoli  passed  away  in  Connect- 
icut on  June  20,  1972,  at  the  age  of  56. 

Born  in  Chester,  Conn.,  he  later  graduated 
from  WPI  with  a  degree  in  civil  engineering. 
He  served  as  a  bridge  engineer  with  the 
Connecticut  State  Highway  Department 
and  had  been  with  the  department  since 
1938. 

He  was  a  member  of  Phi  Kappa  Theta 
and  Sigma  Xi. 

EDWARD  J.  BOROWIEC,  '70 

Navy  Ensign  Edward  J.  Borowiec,  23,  was 
killed  in  a  bus-car  accident  in  the  Philippine 
Islands  on  October  19,  1972. 

He  was  born  in  Chicopee,  Mass.,  and 
later  received  his  bachelor  of  science  degree 
in  civil  engineering  from  WPI.  He  enlisted 
in  the  Navy  in  1970  and  received  his  com- 
mission at  Newport,  R.I.,  in  July  of  1971. 

Ensign  Borowiec,  who  was  only  recently 
assigned  to  the  Philippine  Islands,  was  a 
member  of  Phi  Kappa  Theta  Fraternity. 


Ymr  Class 
and  Others 


1908 


DONALD  D.  SIMONDS,  class  secretary,  is 
now  located  at  2  Alexander  Ave.,  Nutley, 
N.J.  07110. 


1915 


FREDERIC    R.    COX    currently    resides 
Vincentown,  N.J. 


1926 


EDMUND  J.  McGARRELL,  formerly  wi 
Newport  News  (Va.)  Shipbuilding,  has  t 
tired.  .  .  .  ARMAND  L.  PAQUETTE  has  r 
tired  as  marketing  manager,  missile  launchii 
and  handling  department,  Westinghou 
Electric  Corp.,  Sunnyvale,  Calif. . . .  WILLIA 
J.  WILLIAMSON  is  with  Niagara  Front 
Travel  Service,  Niagara  Falls,  N.Y. 


18 


1918 


MAURICE  W.  RICHARDSON  has  retired 
again.  For  the  past  twelve  years  he  has  been 
executive  director  of  the  Amsterdam  (N.Y.) 
Community  Chest  but  as  of  January  he  con- 
cluded his  duties.  Previously  he  was  retired 
as  manager  of  engineering  for  Mohasco 
Industries. 


1919 


GEORGE  W.  RORABACK,  JR.,  is  retired  as 
vice  chairman  of  the  board,  H.  B.  Smith  Co., 
Westfield,  Mass. 


1922 


JOHN  V.  RUSSELL,  the  former  chairman 
and  president  of  Philadelphia  Manufacturers 
Mutual  Insurance  Co.,  Philadelphia,  is  now 
retired. 


1925 


DAVID  J.  MINOTT  has  retired  as  chief, 
specification  section,  U.S.  Army  Electronics 
Command,  Ft.  Monmouth,  N.J. 


1927 


EUSTACE  I.  MERRILL  is  a  retiree.  He  hi 
been  associated  with  Johns-Manville  Pro' 
ucts  Corp.,  Manville,  N.J.  .  .  .  THOMAS 
STEWARD  has  retired.  He  was  with  Electi 
Assembly  Products. 


1928 


LYMAN  W.  CROSS  has  retired  from  tl 
U.S.  Envelope  Co.,  Springfield,  Mass.,  whe 
he  was  manager.  .  .  .  DR.  EDGAR  \ 
FLINTON,  former  dean  of  graduate  studi 
at  State  University  of  New  York,  Albany, 
now  retired.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  M.  LESTER  h 
retired  as  president  and  chief  executl 
officer  of  Pyro  Plastics  Corporation,  Py 
Park,  Union,  N.J.  (A  subsidiary  of  Gatews 
Kansas  City,  Mo.)  Mr.  Lester  is  a  we 
known  plastics  engineer  and  inventor 
injection  molding  and  die  and  pressu 
casting  equipment.  He  is  the  founder 
Pyro  Plastics  and  has  been  with  the  cor 
pany  for  more  than  33  years.  He  will  rema 
as  consultant  to  the  firm  and  will  also  op< 
a  practice  of  engineering  and  consulting 
the  industry.  .  .  .  HARLAND  L.  PAGE  tl 
retired  as  personnel  manager  and  purcha 
ing  agent  at  Lunt  Silversmiths,  Greenfiel 
Mass. 


1929 


GALE  E.  FLINT  has  retired  from  Unili 
Illuminating  Co.,  New  Haven,  Conn.,  whe 
he  served  as  executive  assistant  vice  prei 
dent  of  engineering  and  planning. . . .  EDSO 
L.  MERRILL,  former  director  of  training  ar 


cities  at  Litchfield  Farm  Shops,  Inc., 
I  irbury.  Conn.,  is  now  retired  and  living 
.ifferson,N.H....  NICHOLAS  J.  RUBERTI 
a  etired  as  a  research  chemist. 


1)30 


:;  ! 


ARD  R.  DELANO,  or  "Foxy  Grandpa" 
's  known  in  the  world  of  bicycle  racing, 
the  news  again.  This  time  the  Oct.  9, 

issue  of  Sports  Illustrated  recorded 
ixploits  in  the  four-day  Italian  Swiss 
ny  100,  a  series  of  time  trials  held  in 
lern  California.  Racer  Delano  ground 
!07  miles  in  six  hours  in  a  rain  storm, 
jomplained  afterwards:  "Makes  me 
ier  than  hell;  my  average  was  17.995 
l.  I  wanted  to  hit  18!" 
VRMELO  GRECO  has  retired  after  34 
i  of  service  to  education  in  the  state  of 
lecticut.  During  his  career  he  served 
rector  of  Wilcox  Technical  School  and 
Jorwalk  and  Waterbury  State  Technical 
utes.    He    was    also    an    instructor    at 

Technical  Institute,  Hartford,  while  he 
with  the  state  department  of  educa- 
For  the  past  seven  years  he  has  been  a 
ling  officer  in  the  office  of  the  state 
lical  colleges.  He  was  a  consultant  in 
lesign  of  the  New  Hampshire  Technical 
:ute  and  the  educational  planning  of  the 
lington  (D.C.)  Technical  Institute.  .  .  . 
TNEY  F.  SCHUKA  has  been  appointed 

building  inspector  for  the  town  of 
ham,  Mass.  .  .  .  CLYDE  T.  SMITH  has 
sd  as  a  radio  transmitter  engineer  for 

Global  Communications,  Inc.,  Rocky 
t,  N.Y.,  and  has  moved  to  Santa  Rosa, 
.  .  .  .  HAROLD  G.  WILLIAMSON  re- 
ly retired  from  the  Federal  Department 
ransportation.  Formerly  he  was  chief, 
surements  branch,  National  Aviation 
ity  Experimental  Center,  Atlantic  City, 

Now  he  and  his  wife  live  at  Merritt 
id,  Fla.  .  .  .  CHARLES  L.  WRIGHT  is 
intly   self   employed    in    Merchantville, 


1931 


JOHN  F.  DEVANEY  has  retired  from  his 
duties  with  the  U.S.  Army,  Civil  Defense,  at 
the  Pentagon  in  Washington,  D.C.  .  .  . 
MICHAEL  C.  SODANO  now  holds  the  posi- 
tion of  president  of  Asian  Economic  and 
Technical  Services  Company,  Tokyo,  Japan, 
Branch.  .  .  .  HARRY  N.  TYLER,  the  former 
vice  president  of  Mead-Morrison  Co., 
Cambridge,  Mass.,  has  retired. 


1932 


JOHN  D.  LANE  has  been  named  as  assist- 
ant assessor  for  the  City  of  Worcester. 
While  working  for  the  city  he  is  discontinuing 
his  private  real  estate  business. 


1933 

EDWARD  G.  CONWAY  has  employment 
with  Pratt  &  Whitney,  East  Hartford,  Conn. 
...  DR.  RAYMOND  B.  CRAWFORD  has 
retired  as  a  science  teacher  at  West  Seneca 
(N.Y.)  Central  School.  Previously  he  was  a 
group  leader  for  National-Aniline  Division 
of  Allied  Chemical  Corp.,  Buffalo,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
THOMAS  E.  DECKER  is  with  County  Photo 
Compositing  Corp.,  Holden,  Mass. 

GILBERT  U.  GUSTAFSON  is  retiring  as 
manager  of  the  Metropolitan  District  Com- 
mission in  Hartford,  Conn.,  after  38  years  of 
service.  He  was  appointed  deputy  manager 
for  engineering  for  the  Water  Bureau  in  1 961 
and  five  years  later  received  the  additional 
appointment  of  deputy  district  manager.  In 
1971  he  was  appointed  district  manager.  In 
1969  he  received  the  H.  Jackson  Tippett 
award  by  the  Connecticut  Society  of  Civil 
Engineers  for  extraordinary  service  to  the 
civil  engineering  profession  and  to  the 
society. 

DONALD  W.  HASKINS  has  been  elected 
chairman  of  the  Salt  Lake  (Utah)  section  of 
the  American  Society  for  Quality  Control. 
Recently  he  was  promoted  from  senior  reli- 
ability engineer  to  associate  scientist  on  the 
Poseidon  Fleet  Ballistic  Missile  Program  at 
Thiokol  Chemical  Corporation.  He  writes: 
"Within  the  next  two  years  75%  of  the 
nuclear  submarine  fleet  will  have  the  older 
Polaris    missiles    replaced    with    the    larger 


Poseidon  missile.  Advanced  systems  known 
as  the  Trident  are  being  developed  here  to 
replace  Poseidon  eventually." 


1934 


DWIGHT  J.  DWINELL,  the  former  manager 
of  equipment  design  at  Sylvania  Electric, 
Salem,  Mass.,  has  retired. 


1935 


HERBERT  V.  LECKE,  JR.,  currently  has  em- 
ployment with  The  Parker  Company,  Detroit, 
Mich. 


1937 


PHILIP  G.  ATWOOD  has  retired  from  his 
duties  with  the  New  England  Telephone  & 
Telegraph  Co.,  Boston.  Formerly  he  was  a 

staff  engineer LAWRENCE  K.  BARBER 

has  been  appointed  director  of  manufactur- 
ing at  the  A.  C.  Lawrence  Leather  Co., 
Peabody,  Mass.  He  has  been  with  the  com- 
pany since  1937  and  has  held  a  variety  of 
responsible  positions.  Prior  to  his  promotion, 
he  was  director  of  plant  operations.  .  .  . 
GORDON  C.  EDWARDS,  the  former  execu- 
tive director,  facilities  requirements  and 
readiness  department,  USG,  Naval  Commu- 
nications  Command,    Bailey's    Crossroads, 

Va.,  is  now  retired ARTHUR  J.  LEARY 

has  retired  from  Millers  Falls  Co.,  Greenfield, 
Mass. 


1938 


ROBERT  M.  TAFT  is  currently  assistant 
general  manager  at  the  Factory  Insurance 
Association,  Hartford,  Conn. 


SKYLAB,  Space, 

and 

Harrison  Brown 


HARRISON  K.  BROWN,  '39,  was  not  an  adviser  for  the  elegant 
Hollywood  space  epic  "2001",  but  he  might  well  have  been.  For 
more  than  a  decade  his  life  has  been  dedicated  to  the  U.S.  space 
program.  His  accomplishments  with  the  National  Aeronautics  Space 
Administration,  culminating  in  the  successful  flight  of  Apollo  11, 
were  noted  on  the  floor  of  Congress  and  written  into  the  Congres- 
sional Record  (July  17,  1969). 

From  1961  until  his  retirement  in  July  of  1972,  Brown  was  with 
NASA's  Marshall  Space  Flight  Center,  Huntsville,  Ala.  At  Huntsville 
he  served  as  systems  engineering  manager — Agena  launch  vehicles; 
study  manager — advanced  space  systems;  and  systems  engineer — 
space  shuttle  propulsion  systems. 

Although  retired,  he  still  takes  a  lively  interest  in  what  is  going  on 
or  "up"  in  the  space  program.  Currently  he  is  enthusiastic  about 
Skylab,  the  manned  orbital  scientific  space  station  which  is  slated 
for  launching  in  May. 

Harrison  Brown  detailed  his  role  in  the  space  program  in  a  talk  to 
the  Tech  Old-Timers: 

"In  1961,  when  NASA  was  starting  to  orbit  unsophisticated 
satellites  and  only  thinking  about  the  moon  and  planetary  missions, 
I  joined  the  Agency  in  Huntsville  which  was  responsible  for  guidance 
of  the  Atlas/ Agena.  Our  first  mission  was  the  Ranger  which  crash 
landed  an  instrumentation  package  on  the  moon.  The  package  was 
encased  in  crushable  material  that  absorbed  the  shock  and  broke 
away  to  expose  the  instrumentation.  The  instruments  were  weighted 
to  roll  into  a  position  that  would  point  their  antennae  towards  the 
earth.  It  took  seven  failures,  but  three  successful  Ranger  missions 


provided  NASA  with  the  needed  preliminary  lunar  surface  data  fora 
manned  landing. 

"The  Atlas/Agena  also  launched  the  Mariner  I  mission,  a  Venus 
fly-by  that  came  close  enough  to  the  planet  to  prove  its  surface  was 
too  hot  for  man  (800°F)  and  its  atmosphere  so  dense  that  it  would 
crush  him  to  death  regardless  of  protective  coating.  This  mission  re- 
quired three  months  of  agony  as  the  space  craft  developed  numerous 
internal  problems  in  transit  all  of  which  by  some  miracle,  cor- 
rected themselves.  One  example  was  the  light  sensor  that  locked 
onto  the  moon  instead  of  the  earth  which  would  have  prevented  data 
transmission  from  the  planet.  However  a  micrometeoroid  collided 
with  the  space  craft,  broke  the  moon  lock,  and  after  a  search,  it 
correctly  locked  onto  the  earth.  The  worry  time  was  increased  to  six 
months  when  a  Mars/Mariner  fly-by  mission  determined  the  planet 
to  be  desolate  and  practically  devoid  of  atmosphere,  but  capable  ol 
manned  landings  similar  to  the  moon. 

"In  1 963  I  was  given  the  responsibility  to  define  a  system  to  make 
practical  use  of  the  developed  Apollo  hardware.  Since  it  was  obvious 
that  the  moon  has  no  practical  civilian  or  military  use  because  of  its 
great  distance,  we  concentrated  on  earth  orbit.  The  system  originally 
proposed  was  an  orbiting  workshop  using  the  empty  liquid  hydrogen 
tank  of  the  second  stage  of  the  small  Saturn  after  it  had  burned  itself 
into  a  270  mile  high  orbit.  The  furnishings  and  test  equipment, 
packaged  in  a  box  on  the  forward  end  of  the  vehicle,  would  be 
moved  into  the  workshop  and  set  up  by  the  three  astronauts  who 
would  come  up  on  a  second  Saturn  flight  in  an  Apollo  Command 
Module.  Later  studies  proved  it  to  be  more  practical  to  build  the 
workshop  on  the  ground  and  launch  it  with  the  large  Saturn  V  which 
is  used  for  the  Apollo  missions.  At  this  point  the  program  was  named 
'Skylab'. 

"The  Skylab  workshop  is  built  into  the  liquid  hydrogen  fuel  tank 
of  a  surplus  Saturn  SIVb  stage  from  which  all  propulsion  and  control 
systems  have  been  removed.  It  is  twenty-two  feet  in  diameter  and 
has  two  levels.  The  first  level  is  for  astronaut  living  and  contains 
kitchen,  dining  and  toilet  facilities.  The  crew  will  eat  earth-type  food 
prepared  aboard.  They  will  have  toilet  facilities  similar  to  those  on 
earth  and  have  a  shower  bath,  both  of  which  required  ingenious 
design  because  of  weightlessness.  The  men  sleep  in  a  vertical  posi-' 


H  strapped  to  a  slab-type  bed  which  is  best  in  zero  gravity.  They 
ilso  have  an  extensive  exercise  program  to  combat  the  "bed- 
n"  effect  of  long-time  weightlessness. 

he  second  level  contains  most  of  the  scientific  instrumentation 
s  the  work  area.  Power  is  provided  by  a  bank  of  solar  cells  that 
art  the  sun's  energy  into  electrical  power.  Batteries  are  installed 
Dwer  when  the  Skylab  is  in  the  earth's  shadow.  In  addition  to 
asic  workshop  there  is  an  airlock  to  permit  excursions  outside 
ehicle,  and  a  docking  adapter  to  which  the  Command  Module 
the  three  astronauts  will  dock.  Also  attached  to  the  cluster  is 
,TM  (Apollo  Telescope  Module)  which  consists  of  a  group  of 
:opes  mounted  in  a  common  barrel  that  will  be  used  for  study- 
haracteristics  of  the  sun. 

here  will  be  three  missions  on  the  Skylab  each  involving  a 
ate  crew  of  three  astronauts.  The  first  mission  will  last  28  days 
:he  other  two  56  days  with  the  Skylab  shut  down  between 
ons.  The  first  mission  and  launch  of  the  Skylab  cluster  is  scheduled 
oring  1973. 

he  first  mission  will  stress  medical  aspects  primarily  to  deter- 
the  effect  on  the  astronauts  of  that  length  of  time  in  weightless- 
The  first  crew  will  consist  of  a  medical  doctor,  an  engineer, 
in  experienced  pilot. 

he  second  mission  of  56  days  will  also  study  the  medical 
:ts  under  a  larger  time  of  weightlessness,  but  will  concentrate 
jdying  the  sun  using  the  ATM.  Its  crew  will  also  include  a  medical 
>r,  a  technical  man,  and  a  pilot. 


"Since  the  Skylab  will  fly  over  90  percent  of  the  earth's  populated 
areas,  the  third  mission  will  concentrate  on  determining  usefulness 
of  space  for  solving  earth's  problems  in  such  areas  as  agriculture, 
pollution,  environmental  control,  weather  prediction,  sea  state  warn- 
ings, fish  concentration,  navigation,  etc. 

"In  mid  1974  the  Skylab  will  be  abandoned  and  its  orbit  will 
gradually  decay  because  of  atmospheric  impact.  It  will  eventually 
reenter  and  burn  up  in  the  earth's  atmosphere." 

Brown  didn't  start  out  his  career  with  the  moon  as  his  goal.  Follow- 
ing graduation  from  WPI,  he  worked  for  Narragansett  Electric  Co., 
Providence,  R.I.,  as  a  junior  electrical  engineer.  Later  he  was  con- 
cerned with  ship  design  at  Mare  Island  Naval  Shipyard,  Vallejo, 
Calif.  From  1946  to  1957  he  was  responsible  for  the  complete  elec- 
trical system  and  equipment  on  submarines  in  the  U.S.  fleet  while 
he  was  with  the  Navy  Department,  Bureau  of  Ships,  Washington, 
D.C.  In  1 957  he  joined  the  Army  Rocket  and  Guided  Missile  Agency 
in  Huntsville,  Ala.,  where  he  was  electronics  engineer  on  the  Talos 
and  Mauler  missile  systems. 

Brown  is  the  son  of  Harrison  G.  Brown,  '12,  of  Worcester.  The 
senior  Brown  was  fourteen  years  old  when  the  Wright  brothers 
took  off  in  the  first  flimsy  but  successful  powered  airplane  at  Kitty 
Hawk,  N.C.,  back  in  1903. 

His  son,  Harrison  K.,  who  has  been  instrumental  in  getting  our 
astronauts  to  the  moon  and  back,  has  just  become  a  brand  new 
grandfather.  What  celestial  horizons  will  that  grandchild  be  able  to 
reach  in,  say,  the  year  2001?  j 


bwn  the  drain  with  the 
face  program 

>imay  not  be  able  to  find  a  flush  toilet  at  a  public  campground 
in  on  earth,  but  thanks  to  the  efforts  of  Joseph  E.  Swider,  '59, 
•twill  be  able  to  find  one  in  outer  space. 

ivider,  who  admits  that  this  civilizing  touch  is  due  largely  to  the 
cable  participation  of  women  in  future  orbiting  laboratories,  has 
svloped  the  device  under  a  $73,000  contract  from  the  National 
smautics  and  Space  Administration. 

'hen  the  space  shuttle  was  given  the  green  light,  the  people  at 
6^i  knew  the  old  way  was  outmoded,  he  says.  Cramping  two 
>;n  people  into  a  spacecraft  with  virtually  no  privacy  was  out  of 
e  uestion.  The  strapped-on  tubes,  bags,  and  diapers  endured  by 
estronauts  just  had  to  go. 

Ii,  for  the  space  shuttle,  which  is  being  developed  by  North 
rican  Rockwell,  Swider  has  designed  a  new  commode.  "It  will 
;63recisely  controlled  air  currents  to  compensate  for  the  lack  of 
aty,"  he  explains. 

\  bit  drafty,"  he  concedes. 

lit  according  to  preliminary  ground  tests  using  room-temperature 
r,  eople  do  get  used  to  it. 

ie  complete  system  will  weigh  about  120  pounds,  including 
ige  for  waste  matter.  Urine  will  be  stored  in  its  original  form  but 
I  the  addition  of  an  anti-bacterial  agent.  Solid  waste  will  be 
le-dried  to  kill  the  germs. 

'  e  device,  which  looks  remarkably  like  the  first  modern  flush 
I,  won't  appear  to  be  much  different  from  those  installed  in 
'lines.  At  least  five  are  planned  for  the  shuttle. 
'  e  prototype  was  installed  in  a  rest  room  at  Hamilton  Standard 
fcion  of  United  Aircraft  Corporation,  Windsor  Locks,  Conn., 
foe  Swider  is  headquartered. 

'Jobody  was  very  eager  to  try  it  out,"  he  confesses,  "and  the 
itaries  just  laughed." 

■  vider  himself  participated  in  the  weightless  testing  phase  and 
■the  opportunity  of  experiencing  zero  G,  but  only  for  a  few 
•ids. 

'he  problem,"  he  says,  "was  that  the  KC-135  aircraft  we  used 
ii  only  maintain  the  weightless  state  for  about  30  seconds.  That 
it  give  us  much  time  for  testing." 

i  number  of  Air  Force  nurses  and  technicians  have  volunteered 
'rip  out  if  future  tests  are  necessary. 

tior  to  developing  the  space  age  toilet,  Swider  worked  on  the 
snpack  system  for  the  Apollo  program.  [3 


Swider  and  his  commode 


1939 


1946 


1949 


DR.  WILLIAM  L.  KAY  has  retired  as  a  re- 
search chemist  for  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours 
&  Co.,  Inc.,  Newport,  Delaware.  .  .  .  ELMER 
C.  LINDQUIST  is  design  engineer  for  the 
King-tool  Division  of  the  Kingsbury  Machine 
Tool  Corp.,  Keene,  N.H.  .  .  .  BURTON  D. 
RUDNICK  is  an  industrial  real  estate  broker 
at  B.  Dexter  Corp.,  Brookline,  Mass.  .  .  . 
LOUIS  E.  STRATTON  has  employment  at 
Western  New  England  College,  Springfield, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Prof.  FRED  N.  WEBSTER  has 
retired  from  the  mechanical  engineering 
department  at  WPI. 


1940 


RAYMOND  B.  SHLORA 
H.  Brown  Shoe  Co.,  Inc., 


is  president  of  H. 
New  York  City. 


1942 


DR.  FRANK  T.  BODURTHA,  JR.,  holds  the 
position  of  senior  consultant  at  E.  I.  du  Pont 
de  Nemours  &  Co.,  Wilmington,  Del. 


1943 


COL.  PAUL  G.  ATKINSON,  JR.,  has  retired 
from  his  duties  with  the  U.S.  Air  Force.  .  .  . 
WARREN  H.  CHAFFEE  is  a  self-employed 
investment  counselor  in  Longwood,  Fla.  .  .  . 
GEORGE  F.  FAIRHURST  has  been  ap- 
pointed manager,  product  assurance,  for 
RCA's  Electromagnetic  and  Aviation  Sys- 
tems Divisions,  Van  Nuys,  Calif.  He  will  be 
responsible  for  the  product  assurance  and 
quality  control  of  the  division's  electronic 
warfare,  drum  memory  systems,  and  aircraft 
communications  products.  Fairhurst  has 
been  with  RCA  since  1965.  Previously  he 
was  with  Litton  Industries  and  IBM.  .  .  . 
GLENNON  B.  HILL  is  a  sales  manager  for 
Garlock,  Inc.,  Palmyra,  N.Y.  .  .  .  LT.  COL. 
CHARLES  A.  JENKINS,  JR.,  serves  as  Perio- 
dontics Chief  at  the  USAF  Regional  Hospital, 
Davis-Monthan  AFB,  Arizona.  .  .  .  DR. 
ARTHUR  E.  LINDROOS  is  vice  president  of 
The  Techni-Chem  Co.,  Wallingford,  Conn. 
. .  .  HERBERT  W.  MARSH  serves  as  a  senior 
design  engineer  for  Offshore  Power  Systems, 
Jacksonville,  Fla. 


1944 


NICHOLAS  N.  ECONOMOU,  president  and 
general  manager  of  the  Western  Road  Ma- 
chinery Company,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  has 
been  appointed  to  serve  the  rest  of  the  year 
as  senior  vice  president  and  treasurer  of 
Associated  Equipment  Distributors.  He  will 
direct  the  affairs  of  the  Association  including 
programs  designed  to  establish  the  highest 
standards  of  business  operations  for  dis- 
tributors of  construction  machinery.  .  .  . 
DAVID  M.  FIELD  is  employed  by  the  Vertol 
Division  of  Boeing  Co.,  Ridley  Park,  Pa. 


WILLIAM  R.  GROGAN,  dean  of  under- 
graduate studies  at  WPI,  was  author  of  the 
article,  "New  Approach  to  Engineering  Edu- 
cation Is  Implemented  at  WPI"  which  ap- 
peared in  a  recent  issue  of  The  Chemist.  .  .  . 
GARY  HOVHANESIAN  has  been  named 
quality  control  manager  at  the  General  Elec- 
tric plant  in  Ashland,  Mass.  Previously  he 
was  president  and  managing  director  of  the 
GE  housewares  plant  in  Singapore,  a  timer 
product  planning  specialist  at  Ashland,  and 
manager  of  engineering  for  the  Housewares 
Division's  Universal  product  line. .  . .  ALLAN 
E.  RAYMOND  is  with  the  New  York  Depart- 
ment of  Environmental  Conservation. 


1947 


CARROL  E.  BURTNER  is  now  with  Naval 
Ship  Systems  Command,  Washington,  D.C. 
.  .  .  JOHN  G.  HAMBOR  currently  serves  as 
president  of  M  &  H  Electronics,  Long  Branch, 
N.J.  .  .  .  DANIEL  G.  LEWIS  has  been  named 
the  director  of  a  new  national  power  survey 
for  the  Federal  Power  Commission,  Wash- 
ington, D.C.  Previously  he  was  general  man- 
ager of  Control  Data  Corporation's  profes- 
sional services  unit  in  Washington  and  a 
data  processing  manager  for  General 
Electric  in  Schenectady,  N.Y. 


1948 


G.  EUGENE  BOND  is  the  president  of  Bond 
Consulting  Services,  Inc.,  Longmeadow, 
Mass.  The  service  assists  the  business  and 
professional  community  in  financial  areas, 
i.e.,  employee  benefit  plans,  pensions,  and 
estate  planning.  .  .  .  ARNE  A.  KELLSTROM 
is  currently  general  manager,  tool  &  hoist- 
marketing,  at  Ingersoll  Rand  Co.,  East 
Brunswick,  N.J.  .  .  .  KEL-Co  Publishing 
Corp.,  East  Williston,  N.Y.,  employs  ALTON 
S.  KELSEY.  .  .  .  RICHARD  N.  NOBLE  cur- 
rently serves  as  senior  industrial  engineer  at 
The  Barden  Corp.,  Danbury,  Conn. 

BENJAMIN  D.  RICHTER  has  been  named 
vice  president  of  Ashland  (Ky.)  Resources 
Company.  In  his  new  post  he  will  be 
especially  concerned  with  market  analysis, 
acquisition  negotiations  and  personnel 
matters.  Ashland  Resources,  a  division  of 
Ashland  Oil,  Inc.,  has  extensive  interests  in 
the  highway  paving  and  construction  field, 
in  construction  materials  supply  and  in  the 
coal  mining  industry. 

Prof.  KENNETH  E.  SCOTT,  who  is  Alden 
professor  of  mechanical  engineering  at  WPI. 
has  received  one  of  the  two  1972  Western 
Electric  Fund  Awards  given  by  the  New 
England  Section  of  the  American  Society 
for  Engineering  Education.  The  award  is 
given  for  excellence  in  the  instruction  of 
engineering  students.  .  .  .  DANIEL  H. 
SHEINGOLD  has  employment  with  Analog 
Devices,  Inc.,  Norwood,  Mass. 


HENRY  G.  MOGENSEN   currently  hole 
position     with     Warner     &     Swasey 

Cleveland,  Ohio JOHN  O.  YAEGEi. 

presently  employed  by  Fischer  &  Porter 
Warminster,  Pa. 


1950 


RICHARD  E.  AMIDON  was  recently  elec 
a  vice   president  of   New   Hampshire  I  j 
Bearings,  Inc.,  Peterborough,  N.H.  Form 
he    was    manager    of    manufacturing.  I 
joined  the  company  in  1957.  .  .  .  WILLIi 
COLLINGS    is    a    chemical    engineer  v| 
Ciba-Geigy  Corp.  .  .  .  DAVID  W.  FLOOI 
with  Bovano  of  Cheshire.  .  .  .  DAVID 
HUMPHREY    is     a     sales     engineer, 
utilities,  for  Textron-Sprague  Meter,  Brid 
port,  Conn. . . .  DR.  JOHN  C.  ORCUTTser 
as     principal     development     engineer 
Stauffer  Chemical  Co.,  Dobbs  Ferry,  N.Y. 
JOHN  W.  PUTNEY  has  been  promoted 
assistant  trust  officer  for  Union  Trust  ( 
Wallingford,  Conn.  .  .  .  HENRY  STYSK, 
JR.,  currently  works  as  general  managei 
Infoton,  Incorporated,  Burlington,  Mass. 
PHILIP    J.    NYQUIST    is    a    Peace    Co 
volunteer  in  Malaysia  where  he  is  a  lectu 
in    mechanical    engineering    at    Politek 
Ungku  Omar  Ipoh,  Perak. 


1951 


ROBERT  B.  ALLEN  has  been  elected  a  v 
president  of  New  Hampshire  Ball  Bearin 
Inc.,  Peterborough,  N.H.  He  joined  the  co 
pany  in  1957  and  since  1971  has  be 
director  of  engineering.  .  .  .  HARVEY 
HOWELL  is  president  and  chief  execut 
officer  of  J.  L.  Thomson  Co.  (subsidiary 
International  Basic  Economy  Corp.),  W 
tham,  Mass.  .  .  .  STANLEY  R.  LINDBEI 
has  been  promoted  to  superintendent 
forming,  organic  products,  at  Norton  Coi 
pany's  Grinding  Wheel  Division,  Worcest 
He  was  superintendent  of  engineerif 
organic  products.  In  1956  he  joined  Nort 
as  a  manufacturing  control  engineer 
organic  products.  .  .  .  GEORGE  K.  TUCKI 
is  currently  with  Stanford  Research  Institif 
Menlo  Park,  Calif. 


1952 


RICHARD  C.  BOUTIETTE,  director  of  tt 
department  of  public  works  in  Wakefiel 
Mass.,  since  1961,  was  recently  elect! 
president  of  the  New  England  Public  Worl 
Association.  Presently  he  is  serving  as  chai 
man  of  the  technical  advisory  committee  f' 
solid  waste  disposal  (or  the  Metropoliti 
Area  Planning  Council.  .  .  .  KARL  C  DEI' 
MER  is  now  superintendent  of  engineerif 
for  organic  products  in  Norton  Company 
Grinding  Wheel  Division,  diamond  ai 
organic  departments,  Worcester.  .  .  .  EMAI 
UEL  J  PAPPAS  is  a  mechanical  engines 
estimator  specialist  for  General  Servio 
Administration,  Washington.  D.C.  .  .  PAL 
P.  SPAULDING,  JR..  has  employment  wi 
McGrath  Davis,  Inc..  Hartlord,  Conn. 


We  do  more 
than  gobble  up 
dimes* 


There  are  General  Telephone  op- 
erating companies  in  34  states. 
And  even  though  we'll  ad- 
mit that  has  to  add  up  to  a  lot 
of  phones,  we'd  like  to  take 
this  opportunity  to  remind  you 
that  General  Telephone 


is 


J^? 'only  our  first  name. 

V  Our  last  name  is  Electronics. 

And  that  covers  a  lot  of  ground. 

It  covers  GTE  Sylvania,  which,  as 
you  probably  know,  manufactures 
everything  from  flashcubes,  flashbulbs, 
and  lightbulbs,  to  television  sets  and 
stereo  systems. 

But  did  you  also  know  that  GTE 
Sylvania  makes  hundreds  of  elec- 
tronic components  for  business 
industry?  r-Js 

ItcoversGTEAutomatic    ^* 
Electric,a  major  manufac- 
turer of  telephone  equip- ,-v 
ment  in  the  U.S.,  whose  \*3 
products  include   new 
computerized  electronic 
switching  equipment  for 
telephone  exchanges 


an< 


And  it  certainly  covers  the  people 
who  specialize  in 
solving  the  problem 
of  easy  access  to 
computer-stored 
information:  GTE  In- 
formation Systems. 

And  GTE  International,  not  only  a 
world  leader  in  the  construction  of 
microwave  transmissions  systems  and 
satellite  communications  earth  stations, 
but  with  manufacturing  and  marketing 
operations  in  29  countries  to  meet  the 
demands  of  home  entertainment,  light- 
ing and  business  communications  mar- 
kets outside  the  U.S. 

And  GTE   Len- 

kurt,  another  one  of 

our  companies  that 

specializes  in  the 


* 


manufacture  and  installation,  all  over 
the  world,  of  microwave,  multiplex,  car- 
rier, and  coaxial  transmission  systems 
for  video,  voice,  and  data  telecommu- 
nications. 

That  should  give  you  a  brief  idea 
of  what  we're  doing  when  we're  not 
gulping  down  all  those  dimes. 

And  why  we'd  like  to  be  known  by 
ourfull  name,  ^l  j  ^ 

GEnERALTELEPHOnE  &  ELECTROFIICS 


1953 


JOHN  E.  FLYNN  is  currently  director  of 
operations  at  Plymouth  Rubber  Co.,  Canton, 
Mass ROBERT  J.  HASNERL  is  director- 
reliability  and  quality  assurance,  automotive 
aftermarket  operations,  for  Bendix,  South 
Bend,  Ind.  .  .  .  KENNETH  W.  SHIATTE  is 
with  the  New  York  State  Department  of 
Transportation.  .  .  .  HUBERT  G.  STANTON 
has  retired  as  an  aerospace  munitions  officer 

with  the  U.S.  Air  Force SEYMOUR  M. 

VERSHON  isdirectorof  financeand  planning 
at  a  division  of  Tenneco  Chemicals  in  San 
Francisco,  Calif.  .  .  .  MICHAEL  S.  ZUCKER 
is  currently  with  IBM  in  Poughkeepsie,  N.Y. 
Recently  he  was  elected  to  the  Wappingers 
Falls  (N.Y.)  School  Board  for  a  five-year 
term. 


1954 


W.  RICHARD  BYRNES  is  now  employed 
by  Air  Products  &  Chemicals,  Inc.,  Wayne, 

Pa RICHARD  A.  FERRERO  is  associated 

with  Analog  Devices,  Inc.,  Norwood,  Mass. 
.  .  .  KING  D.  KILLIN  serves  as  principal 
project  engineer  at  Kaiser  Engineers,  Inc., 

Chicago,  III IOHN  F.  MALLORY,  JR.,  is 

presently  employed  by  the  Town  of  West- 
field,  N.J.  ...  DR.  WERNER  M.  NEUPERT 
is  an  astrophysicist  at  Goddard  Space  Flight 
Center  (NASA),  Greenbelt,  Md. .  .  .  DEXTER 
E.  SANFORD  was  the  author  of  "Theory 
and  Application  of  Ground  Distance  Relays," 
in  the  September  issue  of  Transmission  and 
Distribution.  Currently  he  serves  as  a  senior 
engineer  in  the  electrical  engineering  depart- 
ment at  Northeast  Utilities  Service  Co.  .  .  . 
PAUL  A.  WAGENKNECHT  has  been  pro- 
moted to  the  newly  created  position  of 
engineering  superintendent  at  Westvaco 
Corporation's  fine  papers  mill  at  Wickliffe, 
Ky.  He  will  be  responsible  for  the  engineer- 
ing services  function  at  the  pulp  and  paper 
installation  including  capital  improvements, 
design,  construction,  installation  and  costs. 
He  joined  the  company  in  April  of  last  year. 
.  .  .  R.  KINGMAN  WEBSTER  is  executive 
vice  president  of  H.  K.  Webster  Company, 
Lawrence,  Mass. 


Wagenknecht,  '54  Gentsch,  '58 


1955 


Born:  To  Prof,  and  Mrs.  ROBERT  J. 
SCHULTZ,  their  third  child,  a  daughter, 
Georgeanne,  on  November  1,  1972.  Prof. 
Schultz  is  in  the  civil  engineering  depart- 
ment at  Oregon  State  University,  Corvallis, 
Oregon. 

WALTER  B.  POWER  III  is  a  senior  sales 
engineer  for  McGraw-Edison  Power  Sys- 
tems Division,  Belmont,  Mass. 


1956 


JOHN  K.  DERBY  is  assistant  manager  of 
manufacturing  at  Staley  Chemical  Division 
of  A.  E.  Staley  Co.,  Kearny,  N.J.  .  .  .  JAMES 
L.  FORAND,  SIM,  has  retired  from  the  Pull- 
man Company  and  is  residing  in  Kresgeville, 
Pa.  .  .  .  JOHN  L.  HYDE  is  regional  sales 
manager  at  Singer  Instrumentation,  Palo 
Alto,  Calif. 


1957 


Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  KEITH  0.  PRESTON, 
their  first  child,  a  son,  Kerrick  Scott,  on  July 
8,  1 972.  Keith  is  employed  as  plant  manager 
for  Owens-Corning  Fiberglas  Corporation 
in  the  Foam  Products  Division,  Bloomington, 
III. 

JOHN  P.  DENSLER  serves  as  director  of 
manufacturing  engineering  at  Codex  Corpo- 
ration, Newton,  Mass.  .  .  .  S.  E.  GREEN- 
FIELD is  now  employed  by  General  Electric 
in  Schenectady,  N.Y. 


MORGAN 

CONSTRUCTION  COMPANY 


15  Belmont  Street,  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 

Serving  the  Ferrous  and  Non- Ferrous  World  Markets  since  1888  as 
Engineers  and  Manufacturers  of  Rolling  Mills,  Morgoil  Bearings, 
Wire  Drawing  Machinery  and  Furnace  Equipment 


1958 

Prof.  JAMES  S.  DEMETRY  was  chaif 
of  a  panel  on  the  evaluation  of  new  inslii 
tional  methods  at  the  50th  annual  fall  n»l| 
ing  of  the  New  England  Section  of  Amer 
Society  for   Engineering   Education,  w] 
was  held  in  Boston.  .  .  .  MICHAEL  G. 
BRAITH     is    assistant    plant    manager 
DeSoto,    Inc.,  Pennsauken,    N.J.    .    .    . 
STEWART  GENTSCH  has  been  promote' 
operations  manager  of  the  Worcester  , 
Springfield    (Mass.)    plants    of   the    R< 
Chain  Division  of  Rex  Chainbelt,  Inc.  I 
viously  he  was  factory  manager  of  R' 
Bearing    Division,   Downers  Grove,   III. 
joined  the  company  in  1958  as  a  sales  ( 
respondent. . . .  DONALD  W.  ILLINGWOF 
is  corporate  insurance  manager  for  Herci 
Incorporated,  Wilmington,  Del.  .  .  .  WAL1 
JANAS,  JR.,  a  senior  engineer  for  Boe 
Co.,   is   located    in    Cheyenne,  Wyo.   . 
RONALD   D.  KANGAS  works  for  the  |, 
partment     of     Transportation,     Cambric 
Mass.  .  .  .  ROBERT  H.  MacGILLIVRAI 
temporarily  at  Pilgrim  Nuclear  Station,  Pl\ 
outh,  Mass.,  where  he  serves  as  a  ser 
field  engineer  for  General  Electric  Co.  . 
WILLIAM  R.  McLEOD  is  now  maintenai 
manager  at  Ciba-Geigy  Corporation,  Cn 

ston,  R.I HARVEY  M.  ROBBIN  is  w 

Sherry     Plumbing     &    Heating     Co.,    Ir 
Hartford,  Conn. 


1959 


JAMES  A.  ALFIERI,  who  received  his  Ik 
in  civil  engineering  (structures)  from  Ca 
fornia  State  University  at  San  Jose  last  ye 
is  associate  bridge  engineer  for  the  State 
California  Division  of  Highways,  Sacr 
mento.  .  .  .  RICHARD  G.  EDWARDS,  wl 
holds  a  professional  engineering  license, 
a  regional  traffic  engineer  for  the  New  Yo 
State  Department  of  Transportation,  Home 
N.Y.  .  .  .  F.  WILLIAM  FARNSWORTH 
assistant  division  superintendent  at  E.  I.  < 
Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.,  Parkersburg,  W.  V 
.  .  .  RAYMOND  J.  TIVNAN  currently  serv 
as  president  of  McMahon  &  Co.,  Ii» 
Worcester. . . .  LAWRENCE  WHITE  holds tl 
position  of  vice  president  at  the  Leath 
Group,  Inc.,  Johnstown,  N.Y. 


1960 


WILLIAM  J.  FIRLA  is  presently  located 

Surrey,  England LEON  HUSISIAN  no 

owns   Home   Improvement   Specialists,  I 

mira,  N.Y HENRY  G.  HYDE  has  emplo 

ment  as  manager-property  protection 
Stauffer  Chemical  Co.,  Westport,  Conn.  . 
DOUGLAS  0.  KENDRICK  has  been  nami 
vice  president  of  engineering  at  Incotw 
Corp.,  Natick,  Mass.  He  joined  the  firm  i 
manager  of  the  engineering  department 
1969.  Last  year  he  was  promoted  to  direct 


When  the  pack  comes 

down  the  chute  at  Indy 

we'll  be  there  in  spirit. 

The  Norton  Spirit. 


That's  the  name  we've  chosen 
forthe  championship  race  car  we'll 
be  campaigning  on  some  of  the 
world's  toughest  testing  grounds... 
a  lean,  tough  rolling  projectile 
crammed  to  the  throttle  with  850 
horses  of  double  overhead  cam 
turbo-super-charged  power! 

Sponsored  by  various  divisions 
of  Norton  Company  whose  products 
are  closely  linked  to  the  manufac- 
ture and  fabrication  of  most  auto- 
motive parts,  this  sleek  racing 


Norton  grinding  wheels  are 

depended  on  for  precision 

grinding  and  finishing  of  critical 

engine  components,  transmission 

parts,  drive  shafts,  steering  gear 

and  front  wheel  suspension  parts. 

Norton  coated  abrasive  belts, 
sheets  and  discs  play  an 
important  part  in  grinding  brake 
shoes,  crankshaft  lapping  and  in 
the  preparation  and  finishing  of 
all  types  of  metal  and  fiberglass 
automotive  panels. 

Because  they  grip  curved  and 
irregular  surfaces  tightly  and 
strip  off  quickly  and  cleanly, 
Norton  pressure  sensitive  mask- 
ing tapes  are  used  extensively 
in  the  preparation  and  final 
painting  of  automotive  bodies. 


machine  will  hit  the  U.S. A.C.  cham- 
pionship trail  from  Indianapolis  to 
Ontario,  from  the  Pocono  500  to 
the  Michigan  200. 

Our  entry  in  this  internationally 
renowned  sports  event  underscores 
the  important  role  Norton  products 
play  in  the  automotive  industry.  It 
also  reflects  the  combined  talents, 
ski  I  Is  and  competitive  spi  rit  of 
Norton's  1 8,000  employees.  It  is  this 
same  spirit  of  endeavor  and  a 
genuine  desire  to  excel  that  has 


made  Norton  the  world's  largest 
and  best  known  manufacturer  of 
abrasives  and  a  prime  supplier  of 
industrial  ceramics,  pressure- 
sensitive  tapes  and  plastics  and 
synthetics. 

Keep  your  eye  on  the  new 
Norton  Spirit...  an  exciting  symbol 
of  a  company  and  people  that  are 
on  the  move!  Norton  Company,- 
World  Headquarters,  Worcester, 
Massachusetts  0 1 606. 


Norton  industrial  ceramics, 
including  refractory  cements, 
are  widely  used  to  line  melting 
furnaces  in  which  automotive 
engine  blocks  and  other 
components  are  cast. 

Norton  abrasive  materials  are 
selected  for  their  long  life  and 
increased  productivity  on  a 
variety  of  automotive  produc- 
tion applications  including  the 
deburring  and  finishing  of  gears, 
carburetor  parts,  connecting 
rods,  ball  joints,  butterfly 
valves  and  thermostats. 

Norton  TYGON®  tubing  is 
ideal  for  low  pressure  fuel, 
vent  and  refueling  lines  where 
high  visibility  is  required. 


NORTON 


Nobody  has  a  better  track  record. 


of  engineering ROGER  R.  LaFONTAINE 

is   general    manager   at    Salvi    Ford    Sales, 

Cambridge,  Mass ROBERT  J.  MERCER 

has  become  associated  with  Leisure  Tech- 
nology Corp.,  Lakewood,  N.J.  .  .  .  HAROLD 
J.  PIERCE  is  a  senior  test  engineer  for  the 
U.S.  Army  Test  &  Evaluation  Command, 
Aberdeen,  Md.  .  .  .  NORTON  S.  REMMER 
serves  as  a  visiting  lecturer  in  the  civil 
engineering  department  at  WPI —  RONALD 
J.  RICHARD  is  assistant  professor  of 
physics  at  Benedictine  College,  Atchison, 
Kansas.  .  .  .  GEORGE  G.  WILSON  now 
works  for  Singer/Tele-Signal,  Woodbury, 
N.Y. 


1961 


WILLIAM  CALDER  III  has  been  appointed 
as  technical  consultant  on  the  development 
and  engineering  staff  of  the  Foxboro  Com- 
pany, Foxboro,  Mass.  In  his  new  position 
he  will  be  active  in  the  company's  focus 
on  product  safety  for  its  line  of  industrial 
process  controls.  He  joined  the  company  in 
1963  and  was  promoted  to  senior  product 
engineer  in  1969.  He  has  been  concerned 
with  electrical  codes  and  safety  on  national 
and  international  levels.  He  has  written 
papers  on  the  subject  and  is  currently  serv- 
ing as  a  U.S.  delegate  on  several  Interna- 
tional Electrotechnical  Commission  com- 
mittees relative  to  hazardous  area  operations. 

PHILIP  M.  CRIMMINS  was  recently  ap- 
pointed eastern  manager  of  fine  papers  in 
Brown  Company's  Specialty  Papers  Division 
and  will  be  headquartered  at  Englewood  Cliffs, 
N.J....  DR.  ARTHURF.  GREEN  Eisa  physicist 
with  National  Accelerator  Lab.,  Batavia,  III. 
.  .  .  BRADLEY  E.  HOSMER  holds  the  posi- 
tion of  general  manager-systems  group,  at 
Branson  Sonic  Power  Co.,  Danbury,  Conn. 
. . .  VINCENT  KOST  is  with  United  Illuminat- 
ing Co.,  New  Haven,  Conn.  .  .  .  WARD  D. 
MacKENZIE  currently  serves  as  European 
sales  manager  for  Digital  Equipment  Corp. 
in  Geneva,  Switzerland.  .  .  .  NORMAND  L. 
NOEL  works  for  Gilbane  Building  Co., 
Providence,  R.I.  .  .  .  SVEND  E.  PELCH  is 
with  the  International  Division  of  Bristol- 
Myers,  New  York  City.  .  .  .  THOMAS  E. 
POSTMA  has  been  named  senior  project 
engineer  at  Delco  Electronics,  Goleta,  Calif. 

ROBERT  W.  SCHOMBER  has  been  ap- 
pointed vice  president  of  manufacturing  for 
Thunderbird  Products  Corp.,  Miami,  Fla. 
For  the  past  year  he  has  served  as  director 
of  manufacturing.  Thunderbird,  a  Fuqua 
Industries  subsidiary,  manufactures  Thunder- 
bird  and  Formula  boats,  leading  names  in 
the  boating  industry.  .  .  .  KENNETH  J. 
VIRKUS  presently  works  as  an  assistant 
plant  manager  at  Princeton  Chemical  Re- 
search, Inc.,  Rocky  Hill,  N.J.  .  .  .  ROBERT 
ZIMMERMAN  is  with  Acme  Viking  Fire 
Protection  Corp.,  New  Britain,  Conn. 


Calder,  '61 


1962 


RICHARD  0.  ALLEN  is  a  master  of  radia- 
tion biology  at  Blair  Academy,  Blairstown, 
N.J. ...  LAURENT  A.  BEAUREGARD  serves 
as  assistant  professor  of  philosophy  at  Reed 
College,  Portland,  Ore.  .  .  .  JAMES  L. 
FORAND,  JR.,  is  now  with  the  sales  engi- 
neering department  at  Bethlehem  Steel 
Corp.,  Bethlehem,  Pa ROBERT  A.  HAN- 
SEN works  for  Real  Time  Geophysics, 
Norwood,  Mass.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  A.  KREIN  is 
manager-financial  operations  analysis,  power 
generation  group  finance  operation  at 
General  Electric  Co.,  New  York  City.  .  .  . 
RICHARD  P.  La  JEUNESSE  is  assistant 
product  marketing  manager  for  General 
Radio  Co.,  Concord,  Mass.  .  .  .  PRABODH 
SHAH,  who  recently  received  his  MBA  from 
Boston  University,  now  serves  as  a  senior 
market  analyst  at  Corning  Glass  Works, 
Corning,  N.Y.  .  .  .  STEPHEN  E.  WINER  has 
been  appointed  manager  of  commercial 
development  for  the  Washine  Division, 
Mallinckrodt  Chemical  Works,  New  York 
City.  He  will  be  responsible  for  the  develop- 
ment of  new  products,  business  opportuni- 
ties, custom-  manufacturing,  and  the  para- 
aminophenol  market. 


1963 


KURT  D.  ANDERSON  is  currently  with  the 
State  of  New  York  Atomic  &  Space  Develop- 
ment Authority,  Malta,  N.Y.  .  .  .  RALPH  D. 
GELLING  is  an  attorney  with  Morgan, 
Finnegan,  Durham  &  Pine,  New  York  City. 
.  .  .  PAUL  P.  HAUSNER  works  for  Interna- 
tional Heating  &  Air  Conditioning  Company, 
Utica,  N.Y.  .  .  .  ROBERT  E.  MAYNARD,  JR., 
serves  as  general  manager-N.H.,  for  R.H. 
White  Construction  Co.,  Inc.,  Merrimack, 
N.H.  .  .  .  ALFRED  A.  MOLINARI  is  with 
Analogic,  Inc.,  Wakefield,  Mass.  .  .  .  ALAN 
R.  ROBERTS  presently  works  at  Sperry 
Research  Center,  Sudbury,  Mass. 


1964 


Married:  PAUL  B.  WATSON  and  Miss  Susan 
B.  Morton  on  November  1 8  in  Cape  Porpoise, 
Maine.  Mrs.  Watson  is  a  graduate  of  the 
University  of  Maine.  Portland. 


DR.  MARTIN  A.  BARONE  is  an  associ 
research  engineer  at  General  Motors  Tej 
nical    Center,    Warren,    Mich.    He    recei 
received   his   PhD  in  civil  engineering  ft 
the  University  of  Illinois.  .  .  .  RICHARD 
BROWN  is  a  public  relations  specialist  1 
Data  General  Corp.,  Southboro,  Mass.  . 
RICHARD  D.  CASE,  JR.  works  as  an  ef 
tronic   engineer  at  the    Naval    Underwi 
Systems  Center,  New  London,  Conn.  . 
ALAN  R.  GROSS  is  a  management  consi 
ant  at    Harmin    Management.  .  .  .    Koel 
Mfg.    Co.,    Marlborough,    Mass.,    empli 
JOHN  E.  GULLIKSEN,  project  engineer. 
E.  JAMES  HANNA  III  is  a  self-emploi 
business  consultant  with  General  Busin 
Services,    Rathdrum,    Idaho.    .    .    .    DR. 
RICHARD     LUNDGREN,    JR.,    holds 
position  of  assistant  professor  in  the  matl 
matics    department    at   Allegheny    Colle 
Meadville,  Pa.  .  .  .  THOMAS  B.  NEWM/  'l 
JR.,  who  is  a  reliability  manager  at  R, 
theon,  Bedford,  Mass.,  recently  received 
MBA  from  Babson  College.  .  .  .  MICH/sfr 
P.  PENTI  serves  as  chief  office  engineeil 
J.   A.   Jones    Construction    Co.,   Somer!; 

Mass ROBERT  ROUNDS,  JR.,  preserl 

holds  the  position  of  district  sales  mana 
for  Moog,  Inc.,  Glen  Ellyn,  III. 


::. 


1965 


KENNETH    B.  ADRIAN   serves  as  systt 
analyst  at  Damon  Corp.,  Needham  Heig 
Mass.  .  .  .  WAYNE  E.  EDDY  is  recreation 
sources    specialist   for   the    State    of    N 
Hampshire    Department    of    Resources 
Economic  Development,  Concord,  N.H. 
RONALD    G.    GREENE,   who   received 
MSEE    from    Northeastern    University 
year,  is  a  senior  member  of  the  technical  s 
at  RCA  Aerospace  Systems  Division,  B 
lington,  Mass.  .  .  .  IBM  Electronic  Syste 
Center,  Owego,  N.Y.,  employs  DONALD; 
GREGOIRE    as    a    development    engine 
manager.   .  .   .  WILLIAM    R.    HOPKINS1 
currently  with  Stone  &  Webster.  .  .  .  DA\ 
B.  LUBER  is  on  the  technical  staff  at  E 
Telephone    Lab.,    Murray    Hill,    N.J.    . 
WAYNE   D.   PONIK  currently  has  emplc 
ment  with  Teradyne,  Inc.,  Sunnyvale,  Ce 
.  .  .  FRANK  RAINER  and  his  wife,  Sigrid,  i 
taking  a  12-month  trip  around  the  wot 
Frank  writes  that  they  recently  spotted 
WPI  sticker  on  a  car  outside  of  the  Emer; 
Buddha  Temple  in  Bangkok,  Thailand,  . 
RICHARD  E.  RICE  is  studying  at  the  Ui 
versity  of  Montana.  .  .  .  ERIC  W.  ZINK  h 
joined   Environmental  Sciences  Associati 
Inc.  (ESA),  Burlington,  Mass.,  as  chemU 
applications  engineer.  He  will  be  responsit 
for  developing  advanced  methodology  I 
detecting    and    measuring    trace    metals 
blood,  soil,  air,  water,  and  other  matrici 
He  is  presently  completing  requirements  I 
his  PhD  at  the  University  of  Massachuset 
Amherst. 


66 

ed:  PAUL  R.  MALNATI  and  Miss  Mary 
R(  Gettinger  of  Mount  Holly,  N.J.,  on 
mber  23,  1972.  STEVEN  J.  ERHARD, 
vas  best  man.  Ushers  were  ELLIOT  F. 
3PLE,  '67  and  GEORGE  H.  RAND,  '67. 
ati  presently  serves  as  a  senior  project 
leer  with  Applied  Information  Industries, 
•estown,  N.J. 

MAN  N.  BELANGER  is  electrical  design 
leer  at  Norden  Division  of  United  Air- 
Norwalk,   Conn.    .    .    .   WILLIAM    N. 
TLEY,    who    received    his     MEd    from 
e  (N.H.)  State  College  in  1972,  is  a 
ce  teacher  in  Gorham,  N.H.  .  .  .  CAPT. 
ENE  R.  DION  NE  has  received  his  second 
d  of  the  U.S.  Air  Force  Commendation 
\\  at  Los  Angeles  AFS,  Calif.  He  was 
for  his  meritorious  service  as  an  arma- 
systems  engineer  at  Wright- Patterson 
Ohio.  Currently  he  is  serving  in  Los 
iles  as  a  development  engineer  with  the 
e  and    Missile   Systems   Organization. 
GEORGE  M.  ELKO  now  works  for  the 
York  Telephone  Co.,  New  York  City. 
Dr.  RONALD  D.  FINN  has  accepted  a 
ion    as    associate    chemist    with    the 
ics  department  of  Brookhaven  National 
ratory.  .  .  .  RICHARD  E.  GOODELL  is 
It  engineer  for  Pfizer,  Inc.,  Adams,  Mass. 
,DR.  MALCOLM  A.  MacGREGOR  is  an 
•;tant  professor  at  Massachusetts  Mari- 
•  Academy.  .  .  .  RICHARD  B.  NELSON, 
t  is  presently  an  independent  oil  and  gas 
iucer  in  Oklahoma  City,  has  been  named 
Irector  of  Superior  Electric  Co.,  Bristol, 
In. . .  .  DONALD  R.  NITSCHE's  employer 
ravelers  Insurance  Co.,  Hartford,  Conn. 
■  CHARLES  W.  PIKE  is  a  student  at  the 
fcol  of  Forestry  &  Conservation,  Univer- 
lof  California  at  Berkeley.  .   .  .  Senior 
Inical  adviser  at  the  Environmental  Pro- 
Ion     Agency,     Washington,     D.C.,     is 
)RGE  R.  STEVENS. 


)67 


).■  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  JOHN  E.  SONNE,  a 
Ethan  Leben,  on  September  21,  1972. 
n  has  been  a  student  at  the  School  of 
irinary  Medicine,  University  of  Pennsyl- 
a. 

CHARD  H.  COURT,  JR.,  is  an  analytical 
mist  at  Ciba-Geigy  Corp.,  Ardsley,  N.Y. 
Systems  analyst  for  Millipore  Corpora- 
,  Bedford,  Mass.,  is  ROBERT  J.  DASH- 
.  .  JOHN  FIORE,  JR.,  works  at  Gibbs 
(ill.  Inc.,  New  York  City.  .  .  .  MICHAEL 
:LOOD  teaches  at  Aurora  (Ohio)  High 
,ool.  .  .  .  LAWRENCE  R.  GOOCH  works 
the  New  York  District,  Corps  of  Engi- 
irs,  Northern  New  Jersey  Field  Office.  .  . . 
TER  M.  HERRON  is  with  Hughes  Air- 
ft  Co.,  and  is  currently  residing  in  Denver, 
.  .  .  WALTER  A.  JOHNSON,  JR.,  has 
ployment  as  a  senior  programmer  at  IBM, 
/ego,  N.Y.  .  .  .  MARSHALL  KAPLAN  is 
f-employed  as  stores  manager  at  Clinton 
3ss  Shop,  Clinton,  Mass.  .  .  .  JOHN  B. 
\NO,  JR.,  received  his  MBA  from  North- 
stern  University  last  year.  Presently  he  is 
;hnical  superintendent  in  the  Dewey  & 
my  Chemical  Division  of  W.  R.  Grace  & 


manufacturers  of 

Double-Seal  Ball  Valves 

Wafer-Sphere  Butterfly  Valves 

JFC  Control  Valves 

Jamesbury  Corp.  •  640  Lincoln  Street  •  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 


Dionne,  '66 


Co.,  Chicago.  .  .  .  JOHN  E.  ROGOZENSKI, 
JR.,  works  as  operations  research  analyst  at 
U.S.  Army  Natick  (Mass.)  Laboratories.  .  .  . 
Union  Carbide  Corp.,  Bound  Brook,  N.J. 
employs  KENNETH  G.  SCHURZKY,  devel- 
opment engineer. . . .  CHARLES  J.  SISITSKY 
is  planning  director  for  the  City  of  Medford, 
Mass.  .  .  .  HARRY  E.  TAYLOR  is  a  student 
at  Harvard  Business  School.  .  .  .  Vail  Asso- 
ciates, Inc.,  Vail,  Colo.,  employs  JAMES  L. 
VIELE  as  a  real  estate  engineer.  .  .  .  GARY 
K.  WILLIS  has  been  named  manager  of 
Bailey  Meter  Company's  Boston  District 
sales  office.  He  joined  the  company  in  1 967 
and  has  held  a  number  of  sales  positions.  He 
ran  unopposed  for  school  committeeman  in 
Mansfield,  Mass.,  last  year. 


1968 


Married:  ALAN  R.  BERG  to  Miss  Kathleen 
A.  Navickas  on  November  19,  1972  in 
Worcester.  Among  the  ushers  were  ED- 
WARD McNAMARAand  STANLEY  PIETRE- 
WICZ,  JR.  Mrs.  Berg  is  a  teacher.  Her  hus- 
band is  a  graduate  student  at  WPI.  .  .  . 
KENNETH  A.  GMINSKI  to  Miss  Ruthanne 
Hazelton  in  Medford,  Massachusetts  on 
October  21,  1972.  ARNOLD  J.  ANTAK  was 
an  usher.  The  bride  is  secretary  to  the 
principal  of  Stoneham  Junior  High  School. 
The  groom  is  a  loss  prevention  field  engineer 
for  Factory  Mutual  Engineering  in  Norwood. 


.  .  .  LOUIS  MANONI  to  Miss  Joan  Scalise 
on  October  8  in  North  Loudonville,  N.Y. 
Mrs.  Manoni  is  a  medical  secretary.  Manoni 
is  a  mathematician  for  the  Defense  Commu- 
nications Agency  at  the  Pentagon,  Wash- 
ington, D.C. . . .  DOUGLAS  A.  MURRAY  to 
Miss  Donna  Lee  Hughes  on  October  1, 1972 
in  Millbury,  Massachusetts.  The  bride  is  a 
graduate  of  Northeast  Essex  Community 
College.  The  groom  is  an  electrical  engineer 
with  Raytheon  Co.,  North  Andover,  Mass. 
.  .  .  WILLIAM  R.  O'NEIL  to  Miss  Charlotte 
A.  Cooper  in  Ft.  Belvoir,  Virginia  on  Novem- 
ber 18.  CARL  STEELE  was  an  usher.  Mrs. 
O'Neil  is  a  graduate  of  Oklahoma  State  Uni- 
versity. Mr.  O'Neil  is  employed  by  the  U.S. 
Department  of  Commerce  as  a  geophysicist. 
He  is  chief  of  the  Barrow  Observatory  in 
Alaska.  .  .  .  RICHARD  F.  SIMONEAU  and 
Miss  Kathleen  E.  McNamara  on  October  7, 
1972  in  Bristol,  Connecticut.  GEOFFREY 
HARTUNG  was  best  man  and  WALTER 
SACKMANN  was  an  usher.  The  bride  is  a 
registered  nurse.  The  groom  is  working 
toward  his  MBA  at  RPI. 

JOSEPH  S.  ADAMIK,  JR.,  is  now  em- 
ployed by  Westinghouse  Electric  Corp., 
Richmond,  Va.  .  .  .  DAVID  E.  ANDERSEN 
works  as  a  technical  representative  for  E.  I. 
du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.,  Inc. . . .  ROBERT 
E.  ANDERSON  currently  has  employment 
with  Southern  New  England  Telephone, 
New  Haven,  Conn.  .  .  .  ARNOLD  J.  ANTAK 
is  a  water  resources  planner  at  Howard, 
Needles,  Tammen  &  Bergendoff,  Boston. . .  . 
WILLIAM  R.  BELISLE  has  received  his  MS 
in  mechanical  engineering  from  California 
State  University  at  Long  Beach.  He  has  been 
associated  with  Garrett  Corp.,  Torrance,  as  a 
development  engineer  in  aerospace  systems, 
since  his  release  from  the  Army —  STEPHEN 
J.  BRODEUR  currently  serves  with  NASA 
at  Goddard  Space  Center,  Greenbelt,  Md. 
.  .  .  FRANK  T.  CHECK,  JR.,  is  with  Pitney 
Bowes,  Inc.,  Stamford,  Conn.  .  .  .  GEORGE 
DAVAGIAN,  JR.,  has  employment  with 
Sutton  Corp.,  Belmont,  Mass.  .  .  .  JOHN  P. 
DUBIEL  is  with  Boston  Edison  Co.,  Boston. 
.  .  .  ROBERT  J.  GALLO  has  been  discharged 
as  a  captain  from  the  Army  and  is  now 
employed  by  the  Connecticut  Department 
of  Transportation,  Wethersfield,  Conn.  .  .  . 
Ace-Lon  Cellophane  Products  Co.  of 
Maiden,  Mass.,  employs  HARRYT.  GENTILE 


90  years  of  growth  with/in 
worcester..and  more  coming 


til 
is 
ft 
'1 


::: 


& 


fOKSSTSH  POP  FORME  WORKS. 


*v* 


<&     ^     WYMAN  &  GORDON, 


JjtL  "/fc  And  Gold  St.  ft., 


COR.  BRADLEY  STREET 
Parts  of 
Machines  of 
all   kinds.   Fire 
Arms,  Machine  Tools, 
Carriage,  Agricultural 
Hardware,  Ac,  and  all  Iron  and 
Steel  Forcings  received  In  large  numbers. 


'0KS 


^ 


WORCESTER, 
Mass. 


*fe 


«i 


« 


Orders  RtlnidrO  1o  |>runipfl.t .  mid  Ksli Irs  given  on   recolpl 

"I    K|I1II|»I,>. 

(Company's  first  advertisement,  in  Worcester  Directory) 


Leaders  in  service  to  the  community  . . .  and 
to  industry: 

Aircraft  •  Automotive  •  Diesel  Engines  •  Air- 
craft Turbine  Engines  •  Space  Vehicles  • 
Nuclear  Powerplants  •  Ship  Construction  • 
High  Pressure  Fittings  •  Marine  Powerplants  • 
Undersea  Vessels  • 


WYMAN  -  GORDON 
COMPANY 


Worcester  •  Grafton  •  Millbury 

Chicago  •  Los  Angeles  •  Bombay 

SALES  OFFICES  WORLDWIDE 


reduction  manager.  .  .  .  RONALD  F. 

JSZEWSKI  has  been  employed  by  CNA 

|:ial   Corp.,  Chicago.   .   .   .   DAVID   H. 

]  is    a    product    design    engineer    for 

>  Operations,   Ford   Motor  Co.,   Dear- 

jjlVlich.  .  .  .  RICHARD  W.  HEDGE  was 

jly  promoted  to  Coast  Guard  Lieuten- 

junior    grade)    at    the    Coast    Guard 

i  in  New  Orleans.  He  is  a  shipyard  plans 

:tor.  .  .  .  JEFFREY  J.  HULTMAN  is  a 

er  of  the  technical   staff  at   Hughes 

-t  Company,   Culver  City,  Calif.  .  .  . 

N.  KEELER  works  for  Digital  Equip- 

Porporation,  Meriden,  Conn. . . .  JOHN 

iRZICK  is  with    Cincinnati    Milacron, 

Valley,  Minn IAMES  M.  PERKINS 

as  an  analyst-methods  of  equipment 
apment,  Carboloy  Systems,  General 
c,  Detroit,  Mich.  .  .  .  ROGER  W. 
R  received  his  PhD  in  physics  from 
State  in  December.  He  will  assume 
isition  of  member  of  the  technical  staff 
Laboratories  in  the  near  future.  .  .  . 
;OLM  B.  WITTENBERG  received  his 
agree  from  George  Washington  Uni- 
t  Law  School  last  year.  He  is  a  member 
Virginia  Bar  Association  and  plans  to 
Practicing  law  next  June.  Currently  he 
h  the  U.S.  Patent  Office  in  Arlington, 


69 

\  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  THOMAS  M. 
EDAUSKAS  a  son,  Michael  Joseph,  on 
J5,  1972.  Tom  writes  that  he  is  in  his 
r  position  as  a  chemical  engineer  for 
|>le  Oil  &  Refining  Co.  at  their  Bayway 

t)  refinery To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  DUNCAN 

l)OMIS  a  daughter,  Jennifer  Ann,  on 
imber  10,  1972. 

JG  BRUCE  L.  CARLSON  is  serving 
Ithe  U.S.  Navy  in  the  Pacific.  .  .  . 
I'ARD  W.  DeLAND  is  a  machinist  mate 
nuclear)  in  the  Navy  on  the  USS  Bain- 
Is,  San  Francisco,  Calif DR.  EMAN- 

I'F.  FURST  has  the  position  of  assistant 
tssor  of  electrical  engineering  and  bio- 
bal  engineering  at  University  Hospital, 
r:rsity  of  Arizona,  Tucson.  .  .  .  MARK  S. 
I3ER  serves  as  a  graduate  research  asso- 
rt Ohio  State  University,  Columbus. . .  . 
fJLEY  J.  GOLDMAN  is  an  academic 
rant  at  the  University  of  Texas  in  Austin. 
CHARD  H.  GURSKEworksasa  project 
fieer-solid  waste,  VTN  Corp.,  Engineers 
Ichitects,  Bellevue,  Wash.  .  .  .  JAMES 
'ILLS  is  a  product  design  engineer  at 
lester  Controls  Corp.,  West   Boylston, 

'valuation  of  Four  Semesters'  Experience 
!  IPI  Course  in  Control  Engineering,"  a 
I'  prepared  by  STEVEN  A.  HUNTER,  Dr. 
(ERTA.  PEURA,'64and  Prof.  KENNETH 
[:OTT,  '48,  was  discussed  in  the  October 
I  of  Engineering  Education.  Hunter  is  a 
Late  teaching  assistant  in  the  WPI 
lianical  engineering  department,  where 
!:  also  teaches.  Dr.  Peura  is  assistant 
(ssor  in  the  electrical  engineering  and 
(sciences  departments  at  WPI.  .  .  . 
j-lUR  T.  KATSAROS  is  a  development 
iieer  at  Union  Carbide  Corp.,  Tarrytown, 
I.  .  .  LAWRENCE  KATZMAN  works  as  a 


senior  engineer  at  Walden  Research  Corp., 
Cambridge,  Mass. . . .  DAVID  A.  KUNIHOLM, 
JR.,  has  taken  a  leave  of  absence  from  his 
position  with  New  England  Telephone  & 
Telegraph  Co.  and  is  traveling  extensively 
through  Europe. . . .  GARY  L.  LEVENTHAL  is 
a  graduate  student  at  Northeastern  Univer- 
sity, Boston.  .  .  .  HENRY  E.  McGUIRE  re- 
ceived his  MS  in  environmental  engineering 
from  Loyola  University  in  Los  Angeles  last 
June.  Currently  he  is  enrolled  as  a  PhD 
student  in  environmental  engineering  at 
Vanderbilt  University,  Nashville,  Tenn.  He 
was  previously  with  the  City  of  Los  Angeles 
as  an  environmental  engineer.  .  .  .  ROGER 
W.  MILES  has  been  named  director  of  the 
Memorial  Press  in  Plymouth,  Mass.  Since 
joining  the  Press  six  months  ago  he  has 
introduced  a  4%-day  work  week  and  has 
physically  streamlined  production  in  the 
interest  of  greater  efficiency.  .  .  .  RICHARD 
H.  PALM  is  a  software  specialist  for  Digital 
Equipment  Corporation,  Syracuse,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
RAMESHBHAI  N.  PATEL  is  employed  by 
Advanced  Digital  Systems,  Inc.,  Mohawk, 
N.Y.  .  .  .  CHARLES  E.  TRENT  serves  as  a 
dye  stuff  supervisor  for  Inmont  Corp., 
Hawthorne,  N.J. 


1970 


Married:  ALAN  J.  NIZAMOFF  to  Miss 
Diana  Rea  on  August  26,  1972  in  Orange, 
New  Jersey.  The  bride  is  a  senior  at  Newark 
State  College  where  she  is  majoring  in 
elementary  education.  Her  husband  is  a 
project  engineer  with  Esso  Research  & 
Engineering,  Florham  Park,  N.J. . . .  ROBERT 
J.  SWITZER  to  Miss  Marilyn  C.  O'Brien  on 
October  21,  1972  in  Weymouth,  Massa- 
chusetts. GEORGE  HOMME,  '71  was  an 
usher.  Mrs.  Switzer  is  an  administrative 
assistant  at  Cabot  Corp.,  Billerica.  The  groom 
is  a  computer  programmer  for  Morton  Shoe 
Co.,  Boston. 

BRADFORD  L  BJORKLUND  is  a  tech- 
nical service  engineer  at  Universal  Oil  Prod- 
ucts Co.,  Riverside,  III.  .  .  .  GARRETH  J. 
COOKE  is  a  research  assistant  at  WPI.  .  .  . 
KENNETH  G.  CRAM  currently  serves  as  an 
experimental  engineer  for  Pratt  &  Whitney 
Aircraft,  East  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  DAVID  B. 
DAMER  is  assistant  mechanical  engineer  at 
United  Illuminating  Co.,  New  Haven,  Conn. 
.  .  .  BERNARD  J.  DODGE  has  been  working 
as  an  assistant  in  the  projects  office  at  WPI. 
.  .  .  DAVID  A.  FAGUNDUS,  associate  engi- 
neer, works  at  New  England  Telephone, 
Boston.  .  .  .  ROGER  P.  HENZE  is  a  planner 
at  C.  E.  Maguire,  Inc.,  Wethersfield,  Conn. 
...JOHNS.  KEENAN  works  for  the  Connect- 
icut Light  and  Power  Co.  .  .  .  2/LT.  FRANK 
B.   POPE,  JR.,  recently  completed  a  field 


Prucnal,  '70 


artillery  officer  basic  course  at  the  Army 
Field  Artillery  School,  Ft.  Sill,  Okla. . . .  ALAN 
S.  PRUCNAL  has  been  promoted  to  first 
lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Army.  He  is  a  staff 
member  on  the  Merrimack  River  Waste- 
water Study,  New  England  Division  Corps 
of  Engineers,  Waltham,  Mass.  Presently  he 
is  working  towards  his  MS  in  Sanitary 
Engineering  at  Northeastern  University.  .  .  . 
ERIK  M.  ROY,  who  received  his  MS  in  in- 
dustrial administration  from  Union  College, 
Schenectady,  N.Y.,  last  year,  is  now  a  staff 
industrial  engineer  at  Mohasco  Industries, 
Inc.,  Amsterdam,  N.Y.  .  .  .  JEFFREY  H. 
THURSTON  is  a  second  lieutenant  in  the 
U.S.  Army. 


1971 


Married:  JOHN  A.  GIORDANO  to  Miss 
Cynthia  A.  Kuklierus  on  October  1 4,  1 972  in 
North  Grafton,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Gior- 
dano is  a  certified  operating  room  technician 
at  St.  Vincent  Hospital,  Worcester.  Her 
husband  is  working  for  his  MBA  at  the 
University  of  Rhode  Island,  Kingston.  .  .  . 
WILLIAM  J.  MULVEY  and  Miss  Debra  J. 
Yoxall  on  October  21  in  South  Glastonbury, 
Connecticut.  URMAS  E.  VOLKEand  RALPH 
H.  REDDICK  were  ushers.  Mrs.  Mulvey 
attended  Manchester  Community  College. 
The  bridegroom  is  a  design  engineer  at 
Sikorsky  Aircraft,  Stratford. . . .  LT.  KENNETH 
R.  PERKINS  to  Miss  Yvonne  M.  LaMothe 
on  October  7,  1972  in  Modesto,  California. 
The  bride,  a  teacher,  has  a  master's  degree 
from  Stanford  University.  The  groom  is  in 
the  signal  corps  at  Ft.  Bragg,  N.C.  .  .  . 
RICHARD  S.  PIETRYKA  to  Miss  Paula  J. 
Kusha  on  November  11,  1972  in  Palmer, 
Massachusetts.  The  bridegroom  is  employed 
at  Westinghouse  International  in  New  York 
City.  .  .  .  DONALD  P.  St.  MARIE  to  Miss 
Linda  J.  Schmidt  on  September  17  in  Put- 
nam, Connecticut.  FRANK  STEINER  was 
best  man.  Mrs.  St.  Marie  is  a  junior  at  WPI. 
Her  husband  is  a  graduate  assistant  in  the 
WPI  civil  engineering  department. . .  .  MARK 
F.  St.  PIERRE  to  Miss  Christine  G.  Esten 
on  September  30, 1972  in  Hartford, Connect- 
icut. The  bride  attended  Becker  Junior 
College.  Her  husband  is  a  designer  at  Riley 
Stoker  Corp.,  Worcester.  .  .  .  PAUL  R. 
SMITH  to  Miss  Ann  Clarizia  on  November 
25  in  Waterbury,  Connecticut.  The  bride  is  a 
graduate  of  Grahm  Junior  College,  Boston. 

ROBERT  J.  ALLARD,  JR.,  is  a  market 
research  analyst  (real  estate)  forZayre  Corp., 
Natick,  Mass.  .  .  .  BARRY  F.  BELANGER  is 
doing  graduate  work  at  the  University  of 
Michigan,  Ann  Arbor.  .  .  .  ROBERT  C. 
BLAISDELL  works  for  New  England  Power 

Co.,  Westboro,  Mass STEVEN  S.  CHAN 

has  employment  at  Alden  Research  Labora- 
tories, Holden,  Mass PHILIP  M.  JOHN- 
SON is  a  chemist  with  Gentex  Corp.,  Simp- 
son, Pa.  .  .  .  EDWARD  C.  LOWE  III  is  with 
General  Electric  Co.,  Schenectady,  N.Y.  .  . 
THOMAS  F.  MIRARCHI  studies  as  a  gradu- 
ate student  at  Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute of  Connecticut  in  Hartford.  .  .  .  R. 
ANDREW  MUIR,  JR.,  presently  has  employ- 
ment with  Donald  J.  Seifert,  Inc.,  Kansas 
City,  Mo.  .  .  .  AMRIK  S.  PABLEY  is  self- 
employed     at     India     Trading     Company, 


29 


Chicago,  III PAUL  J.  PAKUS,  an  ensign 

in  the  U.S.  Navy,  is  stationed  at  Coronado, 
Calif.  .  .  .  JOHN  G.  PLONSKY  is  an  AD&D 
engineer  at  Sikorsky  Aircraft,  Stratford,  Conn. 
.. .  ROBERT  SHEIMAN  is  stationed  with  the 
Army  in  Germany.  .  .  .  ROBERT  SLAVIN 
works  as  a  radio  announcer  at  station  WBCN, 
Boston FRANK  W.  STEINER  is  a  gradu- 
ate assistant  at  Alden  Research  Labs.  .  .  . 
JOSEPH  A.  THOMAS  holds  the  position  of 
project  engineer  at  Westinghouse  Heat 
Transfer  Division,  Lester,  Pa.  .  .  .  BRUCE  R. 
TOMPKINS  serves  as  a  construction  engi- 
neer for  the  Massachusetts  State  Bureau  of 
Building  Construction  at  the  construction 
site  of  Mt.  Wachusett  Community  College, 
Gardner.  .  .  .  LT.  THOMAS  J.  WERB  is 
presently  assigned  as  a  communications 
platoon  leader  and  communications  officer 
at  Ft.  Carson,  Coio. 


1972 


Married:  JOSEPH  D.  BIANCAto  Miss  Mary 
I.  Jones  on  October  14,  1972  in  Feeding 
Hills,  Massachusetts.  DAVID  L.  LeBLANC 
was  best  man.  The  bride  is  a  Becker  gradu- 
ate. The  groom  is  employed  in  the  research 
and  development  department  of  Combus- 
tion Engineering,  Windsor,  Conn.  .  .  .  RAY- 
MOND E.  CANNING  and  Miss  Catherine 
Daly  on  September  30,  in  Waterbury,  Con- 
necticut. WILLIAM  KLEIN  was  best  man  and 
MICHAEL  CORBY  was  an  usher.  The  bride 
graduated  from  Anna  Maria  College,  Paxton, 


Mass FRANCIS  B.  COSTA  to  Miss  Gail 

A.  Goraj  of  Chicopee.  Massachusetts  on 
August  26,  1972.  DUNCAN  CREASER  and 
DAVID  MARTIN  were  ushers.  Mrs.  Costa 
attended  Bridgewater  State  College.  Her 
husband  is  doing  graduate  work  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Miami  in  Florida. . .  .  LT.  ANDREW 
J.  GLAZIER  to  Miss  Janet  L.  Bunten  on 
September  1,  1972  in  Woodbridge,  Virginia. 
Mrs.  Glazier  is  a  graduate  of  McConnell  Air- 
line School  in  Minnesota.  Her  husband  is  in 
Georgia  at  Airborne  School.  After  comple- 
tion of  his  studies  the  couple  will  reside  in 
Germany  for  two  years  where  Lt.  Glazier 
will  be  stationed....  RICHARD  S.  PODOLNY 
to  Miss  Susan  Lee  Dawson  on  October  1  in 
Rockport,  Massachusetts.  BRUCE  HALL 
was  an  usher.  Mrs.  Podolny  was  a  junior  at 
WPI.  Her  husband  is  employed  at  the 
Brewster  Inn.  .  .  .  ROBERT  E.  ROGERS  to 
Miss  Deborah  L.  Dunton  on  September  30, 
1972.  JOSEPH  BIANCA  and  PATRICK 
LAFAYETTE  were  ushers.  Rogers  is  a  design 
engineer    at    Pratt    Whitney    Aircraft,    East 

Hartford,  Conn IRA  H.  WEISSMAN  and 

Miss  Alison  R.  Swartz  on  October  14,  1972 
in  Worcester.  Mrs.  Weissman  is  a  graduate 
of   Chandler   School   for  Women,    Boston. 


Dion,  '72 


The    groom    is    a    programmer    at    Di 
Observatory,  Albany,  N.Y. 

MICHAEL  CORBY  is  a  system  prograr 
at  State  Mutual  Life  Insurance  Co.,  Wo 
ter.  .  .  .  PETER  E.  DAUPERN  is  a  grac 
student  at  WPI.  .  .  .  Army  Private  AL> 
DION  recently  completed  eight  weel 
basic  training  at  Ft.  Leonard  Wood,  M< 
received  instruction  in  drill  and  ceremc 
weapons,  and  combat  tactics.  Presentl 
is  on  active  duty  for  the  National  Guarc 
JOHN  D.  FOLEY  is  a  structural  engine 
General  Dynamics-Electric  Boat,  Gn 
Conn TERRY  A.  FULLER  is  a  part- 
instructor  in  the  life  sciences  departme 

WPI GEORGE  S.  KACZOWKA  wort 

a  graduate  research  assistant  at  V 
Alden  Labs.  .  .  .  GEORGE  KARAPETIA 
with  Stone  &  Webster  Engineering 
Boston.  .  .  .  ROBERT  J.  LEDUC  work.- 
Westinghouse  Electric  Corp..  Pittsburgh 
.  .  .JOHN  A.  MINASIAN  is  manager  of. 
cation,  research,  and  development  sen 
at  the  Worcester  Area  College  Compute 
Center,  located  in  Gordon  Library  at  WPI 
2/LT.  DONALD  A.  TAFT  is  with  the  C 
of  Engineers,  U.S.  Army.  He  was  rect 
assigned  to  the  Army  Engineer  School 
Belvoir,  Va.  .  .  .  2/LT.  GLENN  A.  Y 
recently  completed  a  nine-week  trans 
tation  officer  basic  course  at  the  / 
Transportation  School,  Ft.  Eustis,  Va 


1973  ENGINEERING  GRADUATES  (AE,  ME,  EE) 


Sikorsky  and  Connecticut 
...a  superb  setting  for  getting 
your  career  off  the  ground 
faster. 


The  famous  American  Shakespearean  Festival 
Theatre  in  Stratford,  Conn. 


Start  the  life  you'll  want  to  live  for  a  long  time— 
and  the  career  that  makes  it  possible— with  Sikorsky. 
In  the  picturesque  Southern  Connecticut  countryside  off 
Long  Island  Sound,  where  living  still  means  breathing 
deeply  and  being  able  to  stretch  out  to  satisfactions  that 
are  meaningful.  With  forests,  streams  and  rolling 
countryside  as  near  to  your  door  as  the  famed  Shakespeare 
Theatre  at  Stratford . . .  and  New  York  City's  attractions 
within  easy  reach. 

You  will  find  equal  stimulation  and  opportunity  in 
your  work— using  your  creative  engineering  abilities  to 
help  take  VTOL  aircraft  into  their  dynamic  future.  The 
truly  unique  capabilities  of  these  craft  are  being  increasingly 
recognized  daily. To  bring  access  where  none  existed. 
To  help  build  bridges,  dams,  oil  rigs,  transmission 
towers,  plants  and  a  host  of  other  structures,  by  hauling 
and  setting  major  components  in  place.  For  exploration, 
firefighting,  lifesaving  and  a  whole  new  range  of 
commercial  as  well  as  military  applications.  And  you  can 


look  ahead  with  confidence  to  continuing  growth  with 
Sikorsky— for  no  other  company  is  so  strongly  committed 
and  so  deeply  involved  in  the  effort  to  develop 
advanced  VTOL  technology. 

Our  ongoing  long-term  programs  offer  a  wide  range 
of  positions  for  Aeronautical,  Mechanical  and  Electrical 
Engineers.  Areas  include  DESIGN  (aircraft  structures; 
propulsion  systems;  transmissions;  rotor,  hydraulic  &  flight 
control  systems;  electrical/electronic  systems); 
TEST  and  ANALYSIS  (structural,  loads,  dynamic,  stress, 
mass  properties,  reliability/maintainability;  electrical/ 
electronic  systems;  technical  computing)  as  well  as 
MANUFACTURING  ENGINEERING  (planning,  methods, 
processes).  Salaries  are  highly  competitive,  fringe 
benefits  extremely  fine. 

For  further  information,  see  your  Placement  Director  tor 
a  copy  of  our  brochure  and  for  the  date  of  our  scheduled 
campus  interviews.  Or  write  directly  to  Mr.  Leo  J.  Shalvoy, 
Professional  Placement. 


Sikorsky  Rircraft 

STRATFORD,  CONNECTICUT    06602     An  Equal  Opportunity  Employer  M&F 


u 

•JITED  Al 

PL 


DIVISION  OF  UNITED  AIRCRAFT  CORP. 


Feedback 
tbd< 


kcabdeeF 
Feedback 


32 


Chapter  Listing  Errors 

The  October  1972  issue  of  the  WPI  Journal 
does  not  contain  the  correct  list  of  officers 
for  1972-73  for  the  Northern  New  Jersey 
Chapter. 

The  correct  list  of  officers  is  as  follows: 
President:  V.   E.   Kohman,  '43,  32  Summit 

Road,  Verona,  N.J.  07044 
1st  Vice  President:  H.  W.  Tenney,  Jr.,  '56, 

74  Golf  Street,  West  Long  Branch,  N.J. 

07764 
2nd  Vice  President:  G.  C.  Anderson,  '44,  71 

Sycamore  Avenue,  Berkeley  Heights,  N.J. 

07922 
Secretary:    J.    H.    Lauterback,    '66,    1022 

Helene  Place,  Raritan,  N.J.  08869 
Treasurer:  J.  E.  Anderson,  '71,  924  Kearney 

Drive,  North  Brunswick,  N.J.  08902 
Council:  N.  J.  Taupeka,  '58,  32  Surrey  Lane, 

Eatontown,  N.J.  07724;  J.  L.  Reid,  '51, 

31    Spring  Garden   Drive,  Madison,  N.J. 

07940. 

John  H.  Lauterback,  '66 


Genetic  Engineering  Revisited 

There  was  some  blank  space  in  the  October 
issue,  in  the  Feedback  section,  and  that  was 
due  to  my  procrastination  in  writing  about 
the  most  excellent  series  of  articles  in  the 
August  issue.  In  particular,  the  manner  of 
presentation  was  particularly  effective,  and 
represented  real  perspective  on  the  progress 
and  the  training  of  the  advances  now  being 
made  and  the  inevitability  of  the  change.  It 
will  challenge  all  our  thinking  to  cope  with 
this  advance  in  "revelation." 

Perhaps  you  are  not  planning  another 
version  of  this  in  another  year  or  two  (or 
whatever  rate  things  are  changing  signifi- 
cantly today  and  tomorrow),  but  it  will  be 
absolutely  a  fascinating  and  important  item 
to  help  those  of  us  following  the  progress  to 
get  such  a  comprehensive  update  in  some- 
thing like  "Genetic  Engineering  Revisited." 

George  M.  Dew/re,  '49 


How  about  "Son  of  Genetic  Engineering"? 
—Ed. 


The  New  Look 

Although  some  of  you  may  not  have  noticed  any  differ- 
ence at  all,  the  Journal's  layout  has  been  completely 
revised  with  this  issue.  Type  styles  and  sizes  are  un- 
changed, but  the  column  widths  and  margins  have  been 
increased  slightly  to  correct  some  problems  both  visual 
and  technical  that  had  appeared  in  the  old  format — 
which,  like  Topsy,  "jest  grew." 

The  new  layout  consolidates  available  white  space 
more,  providing  relief  for  the  eye,  and  helps  make  the 
placement  of  photographs  and  other  illustrations  more 
appealing. 

The  standing  departmental  headlines  have  been  rede- 
signed to  complement  each  other  better.  The  numerals  for 
classes  in  "Your  Class  and  Others"  have  been  enlarged 
and  set  in  a  different  type  style,  to  make  a  more  pleasing 
and  readable  page.  The  contents  page  has  been  exten- 
sively revamped  to  make  it  a  more  attractive  and  fitting 
introduction  to  the  magazine. 

The  Journal  logotype  has  also  been  redesigned.  Of  the 
new  nameplate  its  designer,  Lee  Rand  of  Princeton, 
Massachusetts,  says:  "What  our  eyes  expect  to  see  conflicts 
with  the  design,  creating  an  illusion  of  sorts.  The  close- 
cropped  background  tempts  us  to  try  and  'read'  the  dark 
areas  as  fetters,  but,  when  we  read  the  white  space, 
JOURNAL  appears.  Imagination  provides  the  missing  top 
and  bottom  of  each  letter.  Look  at  it  a  while  and  the  white 
letters  appear  to  float  in  front  of  the  dark  background.  The 
lettering  is  a  mix  of  capital  and  lower-case  letters  known 
as  'biform.' " 


W'\^%^p^-    .«" 


- ,,  .,ii.i.ir_Tft»ji6ni 


■in  iiJTiVi"*ji» 


ji*nfWHi|<#,l'Qllw'«wiiniiMii>im»^ 


ftisas^jnr 


id  1973 


iinininip 


vWvfr- 


iinuaitsip 


Vol.  76,  No.  6 


April,  1973 


3( 


A    Before   and   After — The   Student-Alumni    Relation- 
■'■  ship — a  guest  editorial  by  Leonard  Polizzotto,  '70. 

2  Learning  How  to  Teach  How  to  Learn — a  comprehen- 
sive guide  to  the  technological  tools  of  learning  at  WPI, 
by  Kenneth  E.  Scott,  '48,  and  Russell  Kay. 

©   The  Face  on  the  Classroom  Wall — the  present  and  fu- 
"  ture  of  computer  graphics,  by  Stephen  R.  Alpert,  '67. 

A  C   The  Passing  of  Physics  One — the  end   of  a   campus 
■""   tradition. 

4D    Of  Cats  and  Cowls  and  Witches'  Covens — Ruth  Trask 
takes  an  irreverent  look  at  some  Intersession  happenings. 

Q/fl    Where  Are  You?? — a    plea    for    help    with    the    record- 

**         keeping. 


Departments 

QA    Completed  Careers 
OO  Your  Class  and  Others 
OO  Feedback 

The  Cover:  That's  Mrs.  Fred  Parke  on  the  cover  this  month — at 
least  it's  a  computerized  representation  of  her.  For  more  details,  see 
page  8. 


Editor:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Alumni  information  Editor:  Ruth  A.  Trask 

Publications  Committee:  Walter  B.  Dennen, 
Jr.,  '51,  Chairman;  Donald  F.  Berth,  '56; 
Richard  DeChard,  '56;  Robert  C.  Gosling, 
'68;  Enfried  T.  Larson,  '22;  Roger  N.  Perry, 
Jr.,  '45;  Rev.  Edward  I.  Swanson,  '45 

Design:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Typography  and  printing:  Davis  Press, 
Worcester,  Massachusetts. 

Address  all  correspondence  regarding 
editorial  content  or  advertising  to  the 
Editor.  WPI  Journal,  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute,  Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609 
(phone  617-753-1411). 


The  WPI  Journal  is  published  for  the 
Alumni  Association  by  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute.  Copyright  ©  1973 
by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute;  all 
rights  reserved. 


The  WPI  Journal  is  published  six  times  a 
year  in  August,  September,  October, 
December,  February,  and  April.  Second 
Class  postage  paid  at  Worcester, 
Massachusetts.  Postmaster:  Please  send 
form  3579  to  Alumni  Association, 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester, 
Massachusetts  01 609 


WPI  Alumni  Association 
President:  I.  J.  Donahue.  Jr., 


'44 


Vice  Presidents:  W.  J.  Bank,  '46; 
L.  Polizzotto,  '70 

Secretary-Treasurer:  S.  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President:  R.  E.  Higgs,  '40 


Executive  Committee  Members -at -Large: 

C.  C.  Bonin,  '38;  F.  S.  Harvey,  '37; 

C.  W.  Backstrom,  '30;  B.  E.  Hosmer,  '61 

Fund  Board:  R.  F.  Burke.  Jr..  '38,  Chairme 

W.  J.  Charow.  '49,  Vice  Chairman; 

L.  H.  White,  '41;  H.  I.  Nelson,  '54; 

P.  H.  Horstmann.  '55:  D.  J.  Maguire,  '66 


efore  and  After 


IE  STUDENT-ALUMNI   RELATIONSHIP 


WPI     Community    embraces    several    groups,    including 

nts,  faculty,  and  administration.  There  is  another,  equally 

brtant  group,  namely  alumni,  which  is  an  integral  part  of 

otal  community.  Since  most  alumni  are  not  on  campus  as 

as    the    others,    they    are    frequently    overlooked    by 

ents  and  innocently  forgotten  as  a  part  of  WPI. 

Students  usually  find  it  difficult  to  relate  to  the  fact  that 

flgday    they    are   going    to   be   alumni   of  WPI   themselves. 

Inmost  in  the  minds  of  undergraduates  are  the  thoughts  of 

Buating,  of  finding  some  form  of  placement  and  beginning 

Ir  new  endeavors,  but  few  thoughts  are  directed  towards 

iir  relationship  to  or  contact  with  WPI  once  they  graduate. 

1/  after  being   away   from   the  Hill  for  a  while  do  recent 

puates  start  to  think  of  their  roles  as  alumni.  But  this  is 

ly  too  late.  Students  should  be  aware  of  alumni,  and  the 

that  they  will  someday  join  the  Alumni  Association,  while 

'    are    still    undergraduates    on   campus.   The   attitudes   of 

y  older   alumni   towards  WPI  are  developed  during  their 

ergraduate  years.  It  is  therefore  extremely  important  that 

proper  knowledge  and  attitudes  between  the  school  and 

nni  be  inculcated  while  students  are  still  on  campus. 

In    addition   to    undergraduates   being    aware    of   alumni, 

nni  must  also  be  aware  of  students,  of  new  campus  trends, 

|  of  current  college  life.  Students  and  alumni  should  have  a 

jd  mutual  understanding,  generally  referred  to  as  "Student 

Jumni  Relations." 

The  big  question  both  students  and  alumni  might  be  asking 
Why  should  we  care?"  But  for  just  a  minute  let's  think  of 
school  as  a  manufacturer,  the  students  as  raw  materials, 
the  alumni  as  the  finished  products.  As  in  business,  all 
:e  elements  must  be  of  high  quality  and  must  interact  with 
h  other  to  be  successful.  Returning,  then,  to  the  school, 
v  can  students,  alumni,  faculty,  and  administration  best 
:ract  for  maximum  mutual  benefit? 

Alumni  help  to  determine  school  policy,  as  alumni  term 
mbers  of  the  Board  of  Trustees.  The  Alumni  Association 
.  all  alumni  give  both  financial  and  non-financial  support  to 
I,  without  which  it  would  be  extremely  difficult  for  the 
lege  to  operate. 

Alumni,  in  turn,  benefit  through  good  fellowship  and, 
;n  needed,  second  careers  placement.  Alumni  can  be 
rumental  in  organizing  projects  with  their  companies  for 
dents  on  the  WPI  Plan.  They  can  also  give  guidance  to 
-hunting  seniors. 

Several  new  programs  to  further  student  —  alumni  re- 
ons  are  in  either  the  planning  or  implementing  stages.  A 
)klet  is  being  prepared  for  undergraduates  which  will 
cribe  the  basic  purpose,  organization  and  function  of  the 


Alumni  Association.  This  will  help  to  make  the  undergraduates 
more  knowledgeable  and  perhaps  better  alumni.  An  alumni 
counseling  program  is  in  the  organizational  stages  and  will  list 
those  alumni  who  are  willing  to  give  help  to  students  in 
particular  areas,  whether  academic  or  non-academic.  For 
example,  one  category  might  be  student  activities.  There 
would  be  a  list  of  alumni  who  were  active  as  students  in 
campus  activities  and  who  could  be  consulted  by  students 
currently  involved.  Another  category  might  be  career  coun- 
seling in,  say,  sales  engineering  etc.  A  student  who  aspires  to  a 
career  in  sales  could  ask  an  alumnus  active  in  the  field  what 
life  is  really  like.  To  build  these  files,  we  will  need  alumni  who 
are  willing  to  be  contacted  by  students.  Another  program  is  an 
already  existing  alumni  column  in  the  Tech  News  where 
alumni  can  write  articles,  students  can  interview  alumni,  and 
articles  can  be  published  informing  students  of  current 
happenings  with  the  Alumni  Association.  These  are  but  a  few 
of  the  programs  now  under  consideration,  implementation,  or 
operation.  But  we  need  more. 

Ideas  and  programs  are  fine  but  support  and  action  are 
what  is  really  needed  to  further  student  —  alumni  relations.  In 
order  to  develop  good  future  alumni,  students  must  be 
informed  while  still  on  campus  as  to  the  concepts  of  the 
Alumni  Association.  Much  interaction  is  needed  between 
alumni  and  students  to  bridge  any  possible  (oh,  the  old 
expression!)  generation  gap.  The  more  communication,  the 
better  the  understanding,  and  it  will  hopefully  benefit  the 
entire  WPI  community. 

Leonard  Polizzotto  '70 

Chairman,  Student-Alumni  Relations  Committee 

WPI  Alumni  Association 


by  Kenneth  E.  Scott,  '48 
and  Russell  Kay 


Courses  and  classwork  just  ain't  what  they  used  to  be.  To 
be  sure,  there  are  still  lectures  in  big  halls,  and 
laboratories  too,  but  a  revolution  is  sweeping  the  classrooms  at 
WPI. 

A  Carnegie  Corporation  study  called  it  "The  Fourth 
Revolution:  Instructional  Technology  in  Higher  Education." 
The  Simmons  Review  put  it  better:  "The  lamp  of  learning  is 
wired  for  sight  and  sound." 

In  the  past  three  years  at  WPI,  instructional  procedures 
have  undergone  some  drastic  modifications  and  alterations, 
starting  from  the  traditional  classroom  lecture  and  fixed 
laboratory  programs  and  adding  in  increasing  amounts  of 
modern  technology. 

It    may    seem    a    bit    strange    that    a    college   geared    to 
education  for  technology  should  wait  until  the  1970s  to  really 
begin  education  using  technology.  This  timing  is  probably  due 
to  two  factors.  First  was  the  renewal 
of  the  college  with  the  adoption  and 
implementation  of  the  WPI  Plan.  Re- 
thinking the  basic  structure  of  educa- 
tion for  a  technologically  based  world 
inevitably   led   to   a   reexamination   of 
teaching     methods     and     procedures. 

New  demands  on  faculty  and  students  alike  led  to  a  search  for 
ever  more  efficient  ways  of  using  available  time,  people,  and 
other  resources. 

The  second  reason  that  new  instructional  technology  hit  so 
hard  at  this  time  was  that  the  technology  itself  for  effecting 
the  changes  was  ready  —  it  was  available,  affordable,  and  its 
possibilities  were  just  beginning  to  be  realized  across  the 
country. 


Where  Have  All  the  Slide  Rules  Gone? 

It  used  to  be  a  campus  cliche,  especially  at  large  universities, 
that  you  could  always  tell  an  engineering  student  by  the 
leather  slide-rule  holster  dangling  from  his  belt.  While  that  is 
probably  still  true  right  now,  in  a  few  years  the  slide  rule  may 
become  a  collectors'  item.  The  reason,  of  course,  is  the 
pocket-sized  electronic  calculator.  It  is  taster,  more  accurate, 
easier  to  use,  it  remembers  decimal  points  —  and  it  costs  more. 
But  not  all  that  much  more,  and  the  prices  keep  coming  down. 
Mechanical  Engineering  Department  Head  Donald  Zwiep  is 
working  on  a  program  (still  in  the  planning  stages)  that  would 
make  one  of  these  "electronic  slide  rules"  available  to  each 
entering  student  (beginning  next  fall)  for  an  annual  fee  "l 
perhaps  $25  -  and  on  graduation  the  total  rental  the  student 


has  paid  will  be  applicable  to  the  purchase  of  the  instru  I 
Right  now,  calculators  are  available  for  general  use  aj[ 
Gordon  Library,  and  WPI  Bookstore  manager  Harry  Tl  1 
son  says  he  plans  to  carry  calculators  in  stock  immediatel 

The  Coming  of  the  Computer 


Someone   recently   made   the   statement   that   in  five  ye 
knowledge  of  computer  programming  would  be  as  basic  at 
to  the  average  student  as  typing  is  today.  A  lot  of  publicit  I 
been  given  in  the  last  year  to  Dartmouth  College's  large  t 
computer   center  and   the   fact  that   it   is  widely  used  bla 
facets  of  their  student  body.  Well,  perhaps  that  is  unusu; 
Dartmouth.  At  WPI  there  have  been  time-sharing  terminal 
computer    time    available    to    students    since    1969,    at 
student's  ability  to  use  the  computer  is  taken  for  granted. 


LEARNING 


Those  original  time-sharing  capabilities  were  embodii  I 
the    RCA    (now    Univac)    Spectra    70/46,    which    was 
primarily    for   batch    processing.    At    that   time   the   avai 
terminals  were  located  in  WACCC  (the  Worcester  Area  Co 
Computation   Center)   itself.   Temporary   hookups  were 
made    that    allowed    terminals    to    be    placed    in    Salis 
Laboratories    and    Kaven    Hall,    but    these   have   since 
superseded    by    a    permanent    underground    communical 
network  installed  last  summer. 

In  January  of  1972  a  new  computer,  the  DEC  sy: 
10-50,  was  installed  for  exclusive  time-sharing  use.  As  of  i 
writing  there  are  sixteen  hardwired  computer  terminals  a  i 
able  on  campus  at  five  different  locations,  including  one  w  I 
is  open  twenty-four  hours  a  day.  In  addition  to  these,  thenfl 
many  other  terminals  on  campus  which  tie  in  by  acousil 
coupler  and  telephone.  The  DEC  10  has  a  capability* 
handling  48  terminals,  and  to  make  better  use  of  the  comp  | 
several  other  area  colleges  are  also  tied  in. 

To    help    his    students  become   accustomed   to   using  \ 
computer.    Professor    A.    F.   Chalabi   of  the   civil   enginee  i 
department  regularly  uses  a  terminal  during  class  time  for 
courses    in    "Matrix    Computer    Analysis    of  Structures" 
"Design  of  Reinforced  Concrete  Structural  Systems."  He  pli 
CO  expand  t  h is  type  of  use.  To  be  sure,  there  is  some  dangC 
this    because    students    have    been    known    to    rely    on 


J 


leth  E.  Scott,  '48,  is  professor  of 
lanical  engineering,  Institute 
tor  of  audiovisual  development, 
George  I.  Alden  professor  of 
leering.  Russell  Kay  is  Director  of 
ications. 


lsN5uter  to  solve  problems  that  would  be  better  —  and  faster 
■f   ndled  with  a  few  minutes  at  a  small  calculator. 
!  T  Training  in  the  use  of  the  computer  is  aided  by  several 
'^•fltaped  programs,  which  teach  operation  of  certain  ancil- 

ii  equipment  and  aspects  of  some  of  the  commonly  used 

router  languages. 


eo,  Stage  One 


single  biggest  factor  in  the  learning  revolution  at  WPI  has 
television  —  videotaped,  closed-circuit,  cable-connected, 
Mup-access.  Video  on  campus  is  used  extremely  widely  — 
niklfor  entertainment,   not   for  training  future  broadcasters. 


LOW  tO 

jeach 
low  to 
earn 


for  solid  instruction  in  just  about  every  field  of  study  WPI 
■rs. 

The  beginnings  of  television  at  WPI  were  told  in  the  spring 

1   WPI  Journal,  in  "The  Education  of  the  Idiot  Box."  At 

lit  time  there  was  a  rudimentary  video  studio,  and  a  few 

ulty  members  were  exploring  the  possible  pedagogical  uses 

the   medium.   There   was   one  viewing  station  available  to 

dents  in  the  library. 

Television  use  and  Individually  Prescribed  Instruction  (IPI, 
box)  developed  side  by  side  here.  In  order  to  be  successful, 

;reat  deal  of  planning   and   preparation   must  go  into  the 
''elopment  of  an  IPI  course,  and  this  normally  includes  the 

paration  of  videotapes.  Dr.  Harit  Majmudar  of  the  electrical 


engineering  department  pioneered  the  use  of  videotapes  to 
support  work  in  a  power  engineering  course.  Although  it  was 
not  considered  an  IPI  course  at  the  time,  it  had  many  of  the 
earmarks  of  the  IPI  approach. 

One  of  the  earliest  IPI  courses,  one  which  brought  about 
perhaps  the  biggest  changes,  was  in  the  area  of  control 
engineering.  For  several  years  various  faculty  members  had 
considered  giving  a  single,  cross-discipline  course  sequence  in 
control  engineering,  but  this  never  came  to  pass  for  the  usual 
variety  of  reasons.  With  the  emergence  of  IPI,  however,  and 
with  the  incentive  for  innovation  which  the  WPI  Plan  created, 
the  usual  objections  were  now  overturned  and  a  cross- 
disciplinary  IPI  course  was  instituted. 

This  course  placed  heavy  reliance  on  multimedia  instruc- 
tional aids.  The  most  useful  and  valuable  instructional  tool 
proved  to  be  videotape.  Although  some  tapes  were  prepared  in 
advance  to  present  certain  types  of  material,  the  instructors  of 
the  course  found  an  unexpected  student  demand  for  many 
more  short  videotapes.  Students  wanted  tapes  to  clarify 
points,  explain  principles,  or  just  to  detail  a  shortcut  approach. 
Because  of  this,  two  distinct  types  of  viewing  stations  were 
needed.  There  were  those  in  the  library  for  general  use,  and 
there  were  specific  stations  in  the  laboratory,  adjacent  to  such 
equipment  as  the  analog  computer  and  servo  kits. 


Video,  Stage  Two 

During  that  spring  1971  semester,  there  was  one  viewing 
station  in  the  library.  Only  a  few  courses  were  being  offered 
using  IPI,  and  these  involved  perhaps  200  students.  At  that 
time  the  use  of  video  was  still  considered  experimental. 

More  courses  were  planned  for  IPI,  and  during  the  summer 
of  1971  many  more  videotapes  were  produced.  In  May  1971, 
Professor  Kenneth  Scott  of  the  mechanical  engineering  depart- 
ment was  appointed  half-time  to  administer  and  direct  the 
Institute's  development  of  audiovisual  resources.  In  July  of 
that  year  Herman  Dumas,  an  electronics  technician,  was  hired 
to  supervise  the  studio,  maintain  the  equipment,  and  assist  the 
audiovisual  program  in  general.  The  studio  in  Higgins  Lab  was 
updated,  and  significant  new  equipment  was  added.  (By  the 
way,  there  is  no  truth  to  the  rumor  that  Scott  and  Dumas  are 
referred  to  now  as  Captain  Video  and  the  Video  Ranger.  .  .  .  ) 

A  small  room  in  the  library  was  prepared  to  accommodate 
viewing  stations;  by  spring  1972  five  of  these  were  in  constant 
use  and  the  roorrTwas  overcrowded.  Over  last  summer  a  much 
larger  learning  center  was  created  in  the  library,  capable  of 
holding   up   to   fifteen  viewing  stations.  Right  now  there  are 


The  IPI  Revolution 

In  spring  of  1971  several  courses  were  first  offered  in  a  new 
format,  called  Individually  Prescribed  Instruction  (IPI). 

The  IPI  method  represents  a  complete  change  from  the 
usual  lecture-instructor-classroom-centered  instruction  to  a 
student-centered,  self-paced  learning  format.  Each  student 
works  at  his  own  pace,  mastering  the  course  material  in  a  pre- 
arranged sequence,  one  unit  at  a  time.  The  only  requirement 
is  that  he  must  demonstrate  his  ability  in  one  unit  before  he  is 
allowed  to  move  on  to  the  next  unit  and  more  advanced  ma- 
terial. When  the  student  feels  ready,  he  comes  to  a  learning 
laboratory  where  he  takes  an  assessment  (once  upon  a  time 
it  would  have  been  called  a  test)  on  that  unit.  The  assessment 
is  immediately  corrected  in  a  one-to-one  student-instructor 
relationship.  If  the  student  demonstrates  mastery  of  the  ma- 
terial, he  is  passed  and  immediately  goes  on  to  the  next  unit 
of  instruction.  If  not,  he  goes  back  over  the  same  unit  until  he 
masters  it  and  passes  a  different  assessment.  The  beauty  of 
the  system  is  that  a  student  is  never  allowed  to  get  in  over  his 
head.  Student-to-student  tutoring  is  an  important  part  of  the 
IPI  program. 

Each  IPI  study  unit  contains  an  introduction,  a  well-defined 
set  of  objectives,  a  list  of  instructional  aids,  illustrative  prob- 
lems, study  problems  with  answers,  and  the  types  of  response 
expected  of  the  student.  The  instructional  aids  may  include  a 
primary  course  textbook,  reference  texts,  programmed-learn- 
ing  manuals,  videotapes,  audio  tapes,  and/or  computer  pro- 
grams. The  student  has  a  high  degree  of  freedom  with  respect 
to  choosing  how,  what,  where,  and  when  he  studies.  The 
responsibility  for  learning  is  where  it  must  be,  squarely  oh  the 
shoulders  of  the  student  himself. 

But  what  about  the  students'  point  of  view?  There  are  con- 
flicting feelings,  and  a  small  minority  of  students  seem  unable 
to  adjust  successfully  to  the  kind  of  self-discipline  required  in 
an  IPI  course.  Most  students,  though,  are  in  favor  of  the 
system. 

"IPI  changes  the  student  from  a  passive  to  an  active  learner. 
It  is  relatively  easy  to  sit  in  class  and  listen  to  three  lectures  a 
week.  In  IPI  you  have  to  make  an  active  commitment  to  the 
material  if  you're  going  to  get  anywhere.  You  can't  just  barely 
pass — you  have  to  master  each  increment  of  the  material.  You 
build  up  confidence  with  the  material  because  you  learn  on 
your  own.  You  also  get  more  out  of  the  instructor  because  you 
are  working  on  a  one-to-one  basis.  You  get  to  use  the  faculty 
member  more  to  your  advantage.  IPI  is  more  in  line  with  the 
way  things  are  in  the  real  world.  You  take  on  a  real  project  and 
know  what's  expected  of  you  at  the  end  of  the  term.  It  takes 
initiative,  but  you  progress  at  your  own  rate."  That's  what  Ed 
Peczynski,  '73,  had  to  say  after  taking  his  first  two  IPI  courses 
last  year  and  tutoring  one  other.  He  continues: 

"Tutoring  a  course  helps  the  tutor  as  much  as  the  tutee. 
You  have  to  really  know  and  master  the  material  to  tutor.  You 
get  to  see  things  from  a  different  point  of  view  than  when  you 
first  studied  the  material  and  thought  you  had  mastered  it. 
Students  seem  more  responsive  to  their  peers  as  tutors  rather 
than  faculty  members." 

"You  get  lots  of  confidence  out  of  learning  on  your  own. 
You  learn  a  lot  about  yourself  and  about  how  to  attack  the 
course.  I  will  take  as  many  IPI  courses  as  are  available.  Not 
every  course  should  be  taught  this  way,  but  it  provides  a  good 
balance  in  your  program.  It  makes  for  a  more  varied  and 
interesting  atmosphere  to  combine  various  methods  of 
learning." 


eleven  stations  in  operation  in  that  room.  The  center  is  c] 
fifteen  hours  a  day,  but  even  so  there  are  not  enough  vie\ 
stations  to  satisfy  needs  in  the  immediate  future.  This  I 
approximately  twenty  courses  were  taught  in  the  IPI  fori 
involving  some  3,000  students.  At  present  over  400  videoti 
are  available  in  the  library  learning  center  for  student 
During  Term  A  this  year,  an  average  of  97  students  viewe 
least  one  videotape  every  day  (including  Sundays)  at 
learning  center. 

Videotapes  are  also  being  used  in  many  traditional  for 
courses.  Some  faculty  members  videotape  solutions  to  ho 
work  problems;  others  tape  answers  to  examinations, 
make  these  tapes  available  immediately  after  the  exam, 
advent  of  seven-week  terms  at  WPI  has  meant  the  comp 
revision  of  many  courses,  and  the  problems  of  adapting  to 
new  timetable  have  been  many.  One  beneficial  result  of 
has  been  the  determined  search  for  more  efficient  ways  to 
available  time.  Video  has  been  one  significant  means 
increasing  efficiency  and  learning. 


Other  Media.  .  . 

Video  is  not  the  only  audiovisual  aid  being  used.  One  faci 
member  is  employing  audio-tutorial  methods  to  teach 
laboratory  course  in  sanitary  engineering.  He  prepares  au 
cassette  tapes  which  are  used  to  direct  students  perforrr 
experiments  in  the  laboratory.  Other  faculty  are  using  au 
cassettes  as  a  means  of  giving  directions  to  students  as  t 
begin  laboratory  work.  In  all  cases,  the  use  of  audio-tuto 
methods  has  made  it  possible  for  students  to  come  to 
laboratory  when  they  are  ready  to  perform  the  work. 

Other  faculty  are  experimenting  with  the  use  of  synch 
nized  sight/sound  equipment,  using  2x2  color  slides  ; 
audio  cassettes. 


Video,  Stage  Three:  The  Cable 

The  next  logical  step  in  the  development  of  educational  vie 
is  the  setting  up  of  a  campus-wide  closed-circuit  cable 
system.  During  the  summer  of  11'72  the  WPI  campus  v 
wired  for  learning.  Underground  conduits  and  cables  conni 
all  campus  buildings  to  provide  for  present  and  future  nee 
for  closed-circuit  cable  TV  and  for  hardwired  remote  CO 
puter  terminals. 

Right  now  a  skeleton  cable  TV  system  is  being  instalU 
The    learning    laboratory    in    Higgins    Lab    is    now    using 


'imental  "dial-up"  system:  the  instructor  telephones  the 
udio  and  requests  a  specific  videotape,  which  is  broadcast 
the  studio  to  a  monitor  in  the  learning  lab.  There  is  great 
itial  for  this  type  of  use  of  the  cable;  Oral  Roberts 
rsity  in  Oklahoma  has  an  extensive  computer-organized 
>m-access  video  cable  system  which  works  in  similar 
Dn,  though  on  a  much  larger  and  more  sophisticated  scale, 
here  are  many  other  projected  uses  for  the  cable  system, 
munications  on  campus  need  improving,  and  the  cable 
m  can  enable  the  broadcast  of  general  information, 
uncements,  and  messages.  Video  could  be  transmitted 
any  location  on  campus  to  the  TV  studio  for  taping.  A 
;nt  access  channel  can  be  established,  for  discussion, 
stations,  editorials,  and  entertainment.  (There  exist,  by 
way,  several  vigorous,  student-oriented  "underground" 
orks  based  on  the  use  of  '/2-inch  videotape.  Recent 
rams  from  one  of  these  agencies  have  included  appear- 
s  by  such  diverse  and  controversial  people  as  Lieutenant 
am  Calley  and  Abbie  Hoffman,  Ralph  Nader  and  Berna- 
:  Devlin,  Julian  Bond  and  Dick  Gregory,  not  to  mention 
ns  for  Consenting  Adults."  WPI  does  not  subscribe  to  any 
lese  services.) 

There   are   also   untapped    possibilities   for  interfacing  the 
puter  system  and  the  video  network. 


!ucational"  TV  Off  the  Campus 

ng  spring  1972  a  course  entitled  "The  Nuclear  Power 
troversy"  was  videotaped  with  a  live,  participating  audi- 
:  (consisting  mostly  of  high-school  teachers).  The  resulting 
s  were  edited  down  to  eighteen  hours  of  video  and  since 
.  have  been  distributed  widely  as  discussion  material.  As  of 
writing  nearly  forty  other  schools  have  requested  the  use 
:hese  tapes.  The  course  was  sponsored  by  the  Atomic 
rgy   Commission   and   the   Yankee   Atomic   Electric  Com- 


Another  course,  entitled  "Marketing  Management,"  was 
also  videotaped  with  a  live  class.  This  course  will  be  used 
off-campus  as  part  of  WPI's  continuing  education  program. 
Video  now  enables  WPI  to  easily  offer  a  course  at,  for 
example,  an  industrial  plant  in  Pennsylvania.  The  tapes  are 
sent  on  a  weekly  basis,  and  the  WPI  faculty  member  who  is 
teaching  the  course  needs  only  to  make  a  few  trips  to  attend 
the  class  in  person.  This  helps  keep  costs  down  and  it  enables 
the  influence  of  WPI  to  be  spread  much  farther.  Another 
bonus  of  videotape  is  that  the  material  normally  can  be  used 
over  again  with  only  minor  revision  and  updating,  and  this  too 
frees  up  faculty  time  and  helps  increase  the  overall  efficiency 
of  the  instructional  process. 


Labs  and  Learning  Labs 

It's  easy  to  see  how  videotapes  can  replace  lectures.  But 
laboratories? 

Video  has,  in  fact,  proved  to  be  a  significant  addition  to 
the  time-honored  laboratory  approach  to  science  and  engineer- 
ing education.  It  does  not  replace,  but  it  most  certainly  has 
revolutionized  the  process. 

The  lab  experience  started  in  early  1970,  when  enrollment 
in  a  control  engineering  course  increased  to  the  point  where  it 
was  impossible  to  schedule  an  analog  computer  laboratory  in 
the  traditional  manner.  There  just  wasn't  enough  time  and 
enough  computer  capability  under  the  normal  time  restrictions 
of  1:00  to  4:00  on  Tuesday  and  Thursday  afternoons. 

So  the  mechanical  engineering  department  took  a  daring 
step  and  decided  to  allow  students  to  use  the  analog  lab 
whenever  they  wished,  on  a  twenty -four  hour  a  day  basis. 
Video  was  brought  in  as  a  means  of  answering  the  myriad 
questions  that  inevitably  arise  when  a  student  patches  a  board 
and  operates  the  computer  for  the  first  time.  The  normal 
introductory  lectures  and  instruction  on  the  use  of  the  TR-20 
computer  were  still  given,  but  now  students  could  reserve  the 
computer  whenever  they  wished  by  signing  out  a  key  for  the 
laboratory.  By  careful  scheduling  of  assigned  problems,  it  was 
possible  to  accommodate  up  to  100  students  in  the  one  analog 
lab  with  only  one  TR-20  analog  computer. 

A  television  viewing  station  was  set  up  in  the  lab,  and  a 
special  videotape  was  created.  A  student  could  review  the 
whole  tape  before  starting  an  assignment,  or  he  could  dive 
right  in  and  refer  to  particular  sections  of  the  tape  to  answer 
specific  questions  as  they  arose,  because  the  tape  is  indexed  by 
subject.  Even  though  instructors  were  available  during  normal 
hours,   students  were  encouraged   to   use   the  tape  to  obtain 


Technical  Talk 

Videotapes  produced  in  the  WPI  studio  are  recorded  on  1  -inch 
and  Vz-inch  tape  simultaneously.  The  1-inch  tape  provides  a 
good  quality  master  which  is  later  used  to  make  multiple  Vz- 
inch  copies  as  needed  for  student  use.  Usually  a  Vs-inch  copy 
is  kept  as  a  file  master  and  the  1-inch  tape  is  reused.  Until 
recently,  the  only  copy  in  existence  was  the  one  being  used  at 
the  viewing  stations.  This  was  done  in  order  to  minimize  costs. 

The  standard  WPI  viewing  station  consists  of  a  Sony  AV- 
3600  videocorder  and  a  18-inch  monitor.  These  videocorders 
are  of  the  reel-to-reel  type  and  have  proven  to  be  very  re- 
liable in  use;  maintenance  costs  have  been  quite  low.  Video- 
cassette  systems  have  been  explored,  but  the  varying  lengths 
of  current  productions  and  the  need  for  new  playback  equip- 
ment have  so  far  mitigated  against  the  cassette. 

The  television  system  at  WPI  is  strictly  black-and-white, 
primarily  for  economic  reasons — color  recorders  and  monitors 
are  only  marginally  more  expensive  than  for  b/w,  but  the  cost 
of  decent  quality  color  cameras  is  out  of  sight.  (Worcester 
State  College,  however,  has  recently  opened  a  color  studio  on 
its  campus.) 

A  viewing  station  costs  approximately  $900,  including 
necessary  wiring.  New  %-inch  videotape  costs  less  than  $20 
for  a  one-hour  reel.  WPI  studio  costs  normally  run  about  $50 
per  hour.  The  total  cost,  therefore,  to  make  an  original  30- 
minute  tape  is  less  than  $40,  riot  including  faculty  preparation 
time.  Duplicate  30-minute  tapes  cost  $15.  Most  faculty 
members  spend  about  the  same  amount  of  time  preparing  for 
a  30-minute  tape  as  they  would  preparing  for  a  normal  lecture. 


answers  to  their  questions.  The  availability  of  the  tapes 
permitted  round-the-clock  operation  of  the  laboratory  seven 
days  a  week.  This  simultaneously  increased  the  operating 
efficiency  of  the  computer  and  improved  the  quality  of  the 
learning  experience,  because  each  student  was  able  to  spend  as 
much  time  as  he  wanted  or  needed  learning  to  program  and 
operate  the  analog  computer. 

This  first  experiment  in  using  video  aids  for  laboratories 
was  immensely  successful.  It  was  also  favorably  regarded  by 
students.  Among  other  things,  the  lending  of  keys  seemed  to 
increase  the  students'  feelings  of  responsibility  in  using  the 
equipment  and  helped  to  reduce  maintenance  costs.  This  was 
the  first  "hands-on"  use  of  videotape  equipment  by  students, 
and  it  quickly  spread  to  other  uses  in  other  labs. 

Professor  Leslie  C.  Wilbur,  who  teaches  a  basic  laboratory 
course  in  nuclear  engineering,  normally  had  to  spend  many 
hours  detailing  the  use  of  the  radiation  analyzer  and  other 
sophisticated  radiation-detection  devices,  either  to  small 
groups  of  students  or,  often,  to  individuals.  He  put  his 
instructions  on  videotape,  and  a  viewing  station  was  placed  in 
the  nuclear  laboratory  near  the  instruments.  After  this, 
Professor  Wilbur  was  freed  from  the  repetitive  drudgery  and 
had  more  time  to  devote  to  personal  contact  with  his  students. 


The  Continuous  Lab 

Recently  the  life  sciences  department  instituted  a  whole  new 
concept  in  laboratory  procedure,  the  continuous  laboratory,  in 
a  move  designed  to  optimize  student  learning  efficiency  ill  i 
laboratory    area    which    was    limited    both    in    space    and    in 


equipment.  For  courses  in  "Biological  Science"  and  "Gei 
Physiology,"  a  variety  of  laboratory  exercises  were  requi 
but  there  was  only  one  room  with  limited  facilities  availabl 
video  viewing  station  was  established  and  a  number  of  \ 
made,  and  these  were  relied  on  heavily  to  explain 
objectives  of  each  laboratory  exercise,  detail  the  operatio: 
the  equipment  involved,  and  in  some  cases  show  the  re: 
expected.  This  open  laboratory  now  has  different  stul 
working  simultaneously  on  many  different  exercises,  wl 
consequent  savings  in  the  amount  of  equipment  req 
(elimination  of  duplicate  setups)  and,  best  of  all,  no  deci 
in  learning. 

As  an  example  of  the  continuous  biology  lab  in  opera' 
one  exercise  has  students  view  a  videotape  detailing] 
dissection  of  the  frog  sciatic  nerve  and  gastrocnemius  mil 
while  they  perform  their  own  dissections.  The  tape  also  sh 
the  students  how  to  operate  the  stimulator  and  oscillosc 
used  for  the  display  of  nerve  action  potentials. 

Before  the  video-aided  continuous  lab,  the  instructors 
to  spend  inordinate  amounts  of  time  helping  students  \ 
routine  operations  and  problems.  Now  they  are  availabli 
respond  to  more  specialized  and  individualized  questions  f 
students.  Another  benefit  is  that  students  need  to  spend 
time  with  difficult  experimental  procedures  and  are  abli 
move  more  rapidly  through  each  experiment. 


Project  Applications 

Increasing  importance  is  being  given  to  project  work 
students  at  WPI.  One  aspect  of  project  administration  thai 
emerged  is  the  need  of  students  to  acquire  certain  skill 
areas  of  knowledge  quickly,  particularly  with  regard 
measurements  and  instrumentation.  To  help  out  student 
this  situation,  Professor  Kenneth  Scott  has  inaugur 
PIMELL,  a  shorter  way  of  saying  Project  Instrumental  ion 
Measurement  Experimental  Learning  Laboratory. 

The  first  of  the  PIMELL  modular  setups  deals  with 
measurement  of  humidity.  Prepared  programmed  male 
guide  the  student  in  the  use  of  such  instruments  as  an  A 
Dewpointer,  a  sling  psychrometer,  and  a  hygrometer,  while 
use  and  handling  of  the  devices  arc  graphically  illustratec 
videotape.  Once  the  student  has  become  familiar  with 
methods  available  to  him  to  measure  humidity,  he  may  ch< 
the  method  appropriate  to  his  needs  and  sign  out 
instrument  for  project  activity.  Other  PIMELL  module] 
being  established  or  the  measurement  of  temperature,  p 
sure,  flow,  and  so  forth. 


'.ran  Dumas  in  the  control  room  of  the 
P/ideo  studio 


Responsibility  From  the  Bottom  Up 


The  overriding  trend  in  educational  practice  today  is  toward 
more  freedom:  freedom  in  picking  the  method,  the  time,  the 
place  of  learning.  To  be  successful,  this  freedom  must  be 
accompanied  by  an  increase  in  individual  student  and  faculty 
responsibility.  The  heavy  use  of  television  and  other  advanced 
technological  aids  at  WP1  has  helped  provide  students  with  this 
new  freedom,  and  it  has  given  them  an  opportunity  to 
demonstrate  increased  responsibility.  As  the  focus  of  activity 
leans  more  strongly  to  project  work  and  the  open  laboratory 
format,  learning  now  becomes  the  constant  factor  and  time 
and  method  are  variables. 

An  important  factor  in  the  success  of  the  new  methods  is 
the  support  they  have  received  from  everyone  —  students, 
faculty,  and  administration.  At  some  colleges,  large  and 
expensive  television  systems  have  been  installed,  but  they  are 
scarcely  used.  The  reason  is  that  only  a  few  people  saw  —  or 
see  —  any  worth  in  those  systems.  There,  considerations  and 
opinions  of  students  and  faculty  were  not  an  integral  part  of 
the  planning. 

At  WP1  everything  has  grown  from  the  bottom  up.  Faculty 
saw  a  need,  initiated  the  use,  created  the  demand;  only  then 
was  significant  investment  made  in  the  systems  currently  being 
used.  Faculty  have  found  new  outlets  for  creative  teaching 
efforts;  students  have  readily  accepted  the  new  approaches;  all 
over  campus  the  interest  and  excitement  of  learning  are 
accelerating. 

Technology,  at  last,  is  beginning  to  pay  back  some  of  its 
debt  to  the  educational  process  that  has  nurtured  it  for  so 
long.  i — I 


Ia  I  e  are  l°°king  over  a  second  grader's  shoulder  d 
|r  \|  reading  and  spelling  lesson.  The  year  is  1980.  T 
age  7,  is  seated  before  a  20-inch  color  television 
equipped  with  a  typewriter  keyboard  and  a  lightpen  (sijei 
like  a  small  flashlight  that  can  be  pointed  at  the  sag] 
indicate  an  answer).  His  instructor's  face  appears 
screen,  cordially  greets  him  and  asks  his  name.  After  1m 
types  it  out,  the  instructor  says:  "Well,  Tommy,  are  yoi 
to  begin?"  The  instructor  now  asks  him  to  spell 
Tommy  slowly  types  the  letters,  which  instantly  appear 
screen.  If  he  is  correct,  he  is  praised  and  then  promjsd 
spell  a  harder  word,  and  so  the  lesson  continues.  If  In 
was  wrong,  the  instructor  will  attempt  to  help  Tomjy 
where  he  went  wrong. 


.11      .11      all 


.11      .11      .11 


.11     .11      .11 


THE  TOE 

MTHE 


.11    .11    .11    .11    .11 


.11    .11    .11    .11 


CLflSSHQDIYl  WflLL 


.11 


by  Stephen  R.  Alpert,  '67 


During  this  entire  lesson,  Tommy  will  be  the  only 
involved.  The  "instructor"  is  a  computer,  which  will  g. 
the  face  on  the  screen,  supply  the  voice,  and  guide  the 
throughout.  The  results  of  the  entire  episode  will  be 
out  later  for  Tommy's  "real"  teacher  (a  live  human  be 
examine  and  use  in  gauging  Tommy's  progress,  to  po 
those  areas  where  Tommy  may  need  extra  help  or  drill. 

What  makes  this  a  lesson  in  1980  rather  than  one 
advanced  classroom  today  is  the  face  on  the  screen.  It  i 
videotaped  picture,  for  that  could  not  be  readily  adap 
different  responses  from  Tommy.  Instead  it  is  an  an 
face  generated  by  the  computer  itself.  The  use  of  a  fi 
face  (and  other  types  of  animation)  will,  naturally, 
Tommy  much  more  excited  and  eager  to  interact  w 
mechanical  instructor  —  a  big  step  over  a  simple  prere> 
audio  message. 

The  Face 


- 


Ii 


Stephen  R.  Alpert,  "67,  is  assistant 

professor  of  computer  si  ience  Jl  WPl. 


The  face  on  the  screen  is  one  of  the  more  exciting  aspc 
the  field  known  as  computer  graphics.  Ever  since  man  >|rl 
to  scratch  marks  onto  the  wall  of  a  cave,  he  has  con* 
searched  for  more  advanced  tools  to  aid  him  in  v 
expressing  his  ideas.  In  recent  years,  computers  have  b< 
an  important  aid  to  many  artists.  In  fact,  the  n' 
computer  and  its  graphic  display  possibilities  may  I 
artist's  most  interesting  tool  since  the  advent  ot  oil  paint 
What  problems  must  be  overcome  to  produce  con 
animation  of  the  sort  mentioned  earlier?  The  first  prob 
that  of  storing  the  face  in  digital  form  in  the  com] 
memory.  At  this  stage  of  the  art,  at  least,  a  basic  compi 
is  made.    The  face  is  considered  as  .1  sencs  of  polygons,  u 


10 


a  maximum  of  six  sides,  attached  together  just  like  a 
er's  web.  Such  a  face  is  depicted  on  the  cover  of  this  issue. 
So  far,  things  are  relatively  simple.  However,  when  one  or 
e  points  move,  for  instance  when  an  eye  blinks,  these 
ions  exert  forces  on  the  entire  network  of  lines  and  the 
must  distort  in  the  proper  direction  and  to  the  degree  that 
uman  face  does.  For  each  line  in  the  figure,  many 
illations  must  be  made  to  determine  in  which  direction 
connecting  line  moves  and  how  far  it  stretches, 
sider:  the  lines  toward  the  middle  of  the  cheek  must  be 
y  elastic,  while  those  on  the  forehead  are  much  more  rigid, 
computer  has  to  take  all  this  into  account  if  the  animation 
be  realistic.  Many  millions  of  calculations  and  a  second  or 
ter,  the  face  appears  on  the  screen  transformed  to  its  new 
:ion. 

The  spider's  web  of  lines  that  we  have  now  does  not  look 

a  face,  so  we  next  add  hair,  eyes,  eyebrows,  a  mouth,  and 

At  the  same  time  we  add  a  source  of  light  in  front  of  the 

and  shade  the  polygons  according  to  their  angle  relative  to 

light   source   (Figure   1).  We  now  have  a  face  that  looks 

e-dimensional,  but  it  has  the  appearance  of  being  roughly 

|-ed  from  wood.  So  we  apply  some  computerized  sandpaper 

hading  algorithm)  to  smooth  off  the  sharp  ridges,  and  the 

lit  is  a  face  with  a  much  more  lifelike  appearance  (Figure 

All  of  these  calculations  must  be  done  at  each  step  in  order 
create  animation.  In  practical  terms,  this  means  that  most 
iputer-generated  "movies"  are  filmed  a  frame  at  a  time  and 
In  speeded  up  to  simulate  the  actual  movement.  Because  of 
I  time  scale  involved,  only  the  simplest  of  pictures  can  be 
Ived  directly  off  a  computer  display  screen  and  still  give  a 
Bse  of  life.  But  with  increasing  computer  speeds  and  program 

■  histication,  this  problem  will  be  eliminated  over  the  next 
r  years. 

i  Anyway,  now  that  we  have  generated  a  face  that  moves, 

■  "simply"  add  a  voice  to  the  face  and  the  computer  will  talk 
lus,  eye  to  eye!  Computer  animation  of  this  type  will  serve 
la  prime  tool  in  computer-aided  instruction  for  elementary 
lool  children  in  years  to  come. 

1  The  animation  of  the  face  illustrated  here  was  done  by 
Id  Parke  at  the  University  of  Utah.  The  face  is,  in  fact,  that 
1  his  wife,  and  Parke's  young  daughter  recognized  her 
jimmy  on  the  screen. 


Interactive  Graphics 

Computer  graphics  have  applications  for  grown-ups,  too. 
Representative  of  the  work  being  done  in  many  places  are  two 
projects  developed  at  Sanders  Associates  in  Nashua,  New 
Hampshire. 

The  first  project  is  typical  of  the  uses  of  interactive 
graphics  systems  in  the  command  and  control  situation.  Figure 
3  shows  the  geographic  boundaries  of  the  various  divisions  of 
the  Los  Angeles  Police  Department.  A  dispatcher  at  a  display 
console  can  select  any  given  division,  and  then  one-mile-square 


11 


Figure  3 


Figure  2 


subdivisions  for  closer  inspection.  Figure  4  illustrates  a 
detailed  street  map  and  incident-reporting  format  as  an 
emergency  vehicle  dispatcher  would  see  it.  Three  different 
types  of  vehicles  have  been  highlighted  to  show  their  current 
location.  The  function  boxes  at  the  bottom  of  the  screen  are 
quick-action  buttons  that  will  perform  a  predetermined 
operation.  For  example,  if  the  dispatcher  selects  the  DISP 
AMB  box,  an  ambulance  will  be  automatically  dispatched  to 
the  address  reported  in  the  incident-reporting  section  of  the 
screen. 

Another  application  with  many  future  uses  is  as  a  part  of 
computer  simulation.  Figure  5  shows  a  typical  air  traffic 
control  pattern  as  it  would  appear  on  a  radar  screen.  Each  data 
block  on  the  screen  represents  an  aircraft  under  the  direction 


of  a  particular  air  traffic  controller.  History  tracks 
indicated  as  slash  lines;  up  to  six  of  these  history  lines  can  h 
shown  at  once.  The  tabular  information  at  the  right  preset^ 
the  current  situation  in  text  form.  With  the  use  of  this  systel 
air  traffic  controllers  can  be  trained  under  realistic  COnditifl 
without  endangering  the  lives  of  air  passengers.  If  a  mistake 
made  here,  no  real  crashes  and  no  disruption  of  air  traffic  wi 
result. 


13 


liphics  at  WPI 

^rk  is  being  done  at  WPI  in  several  fields  of  study,  notably 
eiputerized  plotting.  Stereographic  projections  can  be  drawn 
fcive  a  three-dimensional  view  of  many  atomic  and  molecu- 


lar structures.  Some  of  the  beauty  and  symmetry  of  mathe- 
matics can  be  seen  in  graphs  generated  by  simple  equations 
(Figure  6),  which  are  computer-drawn  in  a  few  minutes.  A 
person  would  require  several  hours  to  produce  the  same 
picture. 


I 


Figure  7 


Figure  t 


Another  technique  is  called  "interrupted  line"  plotting. 
This  produces  perspective  drawings  of  three-dimensional  sur- 
faces (Figure  7)  with  a  precision,  accuracy,  and  speed  that 
would  make  any  draftsman  jealous  —  and  obsolete. 

At  the  moment,  three  WPI  students  are  attempting  to  use 
the  computer  to  simulate  the  composition  of  music.  This  may 
sound  old-hat,  but  these  students  want  the  computer  to  go 
farther  than  merely  typing  out  the  letters  of  the  notes.  They 
want  the  computer  to  produce  its  composition  in  full  musical 
notation  (Figure  8).  They  have  not  yet  found  a  volunteer  to 
play  their  creations. 

These  are  but  a  few  examples  of  the  exciting  work  being  done 


in  computer  graphics  today.  With  the  cost  of  computer 
and  display  equipment  decreasing  rapidly,  prospects  are  brig 
for  even  more  mind-boggling  uses  of  computer  graphics  in  the 
future. 

Perhaps  you  remember  some  of  the  space-ship  scenes  from 
Stanley  Kubrick's  film,  2001 ,  where  often  dozens  of  displaf 
screens  would  be  in  front  of  the  astronauts,  each  screen  giviA 
a  constantly  changing  animated  display  of  one  sort  ofd.ua  or 
another.  Kubrick  faked  it  for  the  film,  with  16mm  movial 
rear-projected  on  to  each  of  those  screens.  But  the  day  I 
coming  when  that  may  be  the  best  way  to  present  a  pilot  with 
the  split-second  information  he  needs.  The  technology  for  thai 
will  soon  be  a  reality. 


Ihe  Passing  of 
physics  One 


With  the  coming  of  spring  this  year  at  WPI,  one  of  the 
1  common  memories  of  generations  of  WPI  graduates  has 
ej  passed  into  the  realm  of  memory.  General  Physics,  the 
s|  course  which  used  to  be  required  of  all  undergraduates, 
llj.o  longer  be  the  same  because  of  the  departure  of  the  two 
enAfho  watched  over  it  for  those  many  years.  Professor  Kurt 
ftiyer  died  suddenly  on  February  22,  stricken  with  a  heart 
tic  while  talking  with  a  student  in  his  office.  Edwin 
icrson,  the  physics  lecture  assistant  who  set  up  demonstra- 
ji3  and  maintained  lab  equipment  for  44  years,  retired 
;biary  1. 


<JRT  MAYER  was  not  a  man  easily  forgotten.  Walter  B. 
Dennen,  Jr.,  '51,  spoke  with  several  people  about  him 
cscitly.  "When  I  asked  if  they  remembered  him,  everyone 
nd  in  fond  remembrance.  Some  could  not  offer  specific 
;>nnents,  but  they  nevertheless  remembered  enough  to 
ii  ." 

■  layer  was  a  native  of  Germany  who  joined  the  WPI 
ajty  in  1942.  Professor  Allan  Parker,  head  of  the  physics 
:prtment  from  1949  to  1972,  talked  about  Mayer's  relation- 
ijwith  his  students.  "When  a  student  came  to  him  for  help, 
1  ould  give  him  quite  a  lot  of  help.  But  he  wanted  the 
a«:nt  to  learn  to  think  for  himself,  and  Mayer  would 
aaially  draw  out  the  student  so  that  he  would  end  up 
sering  his  own  question. 

jl'He   was    most    concerned    with    teaching,   and   with   the 

ii>sophy  of  physics.  And  though  he  was  a  philosopher,  he 

lia  deep  belief  in  the  experimental  method.  He  was  really 

eiliked    by    his    students,    as    an   advisor   and   a   counselor, 

cgh   in  his  earlier  days  at  WPI   he  was  best  known  as  a 

Jrer,  the  most  colorful  lecturer  at  WPI." 

;  5 ill    Lupoli,    '61,    reminisced    about    Mayer's    classroom 

•;nce.  "Professor  Mayer  would  scan  the  lecture  hall,  smiling 

llie  while,  and  suddenly  call  out  your  name  and  ask  you  a 

ation.  I  always  felt  that  he  was  not  trying  to  involve  us  in 

lectures  as  much  as  he  was  attempting  to  keep  us  alert. 

In  we  entered  his  classroom  or  lecture  hall,  we  would  find 

^blackboards  filled  with  his  outline  and  equations.  If  we 

t  our  time  copying  the  material  rather  than  listening  to 

we  had  to  be  losers  since  his  tests  were  always  based  on 

1  :  he  said.  He  was  a  tough  man  to  keep  pace  with." 

\z  times,  Mayer  did  seem  to  have  a  fearsome  reputation 

ng   the   student  body.  Vince  Pace,  '71,  commented  that 

seemed  to  enjoy  overwhelming  the  freshmen,  keeping  us 


off  balance.  I'll  always  picture  him  entering  the  classroom  with 
that  massive  volume  of  Newton's  Laws  under  his  arm.  I  finally 
concluded  it  was  just  a  stage  prop,  but  it  sure  worked  on  us." 

The  Rev.  Ed  Swanson,  '45,  has  a  colorful  memory  of 
Mayer's  first  year  at  WPI.  "I  remember  vividly  and  with  much 
appreciation  being  in  one  of  Dr.  Mayer's  first  physics  sections. 
I  was  a  freshman  at  WPI,  it  must  have  been  in  the  spring  of 
1942,  and  he  had  only  recently  come  to  this  country.  He 
spoke  with  a  thick  German  accent  which  sometimes  made  us 
smile,  and  his  syntax  left  something  to  be  desired.  On  one 
occasion,  when  he  caught  us  smiling  at  one  of  his  expressions, 
he  said:  'Gentlemen,  please  do  not  laugh  at  me.  I  have  not 
been  in  this  country  yet  a  long  distance. '  That  really  broke  us 
up.  He  was  a  good,  kindly  man,  and  I  remember  him  with 
great  fondness." 

One  of  his  students,  Dr.  Robert  E.  Seamon,  '61,  now  on 
the  staff  of  the  Los  Alamos  Scientific  Laboratory,  held  Mayer 
in  special  regard.  He  summed  up  his  feelings  in  this  manner: 

"Perhaps  the  principal  advantage  to  be  derived  from 
attending  a  small  college  like  WPI  is  the  opportunity  for  close 
contact  with  members  of  the  faculty,  among  them  tremendous 
personalities  like  Kurt  L.  Mayer,  who  holds  a  prized  spot  in 
the  memories  of  many  whose  lives  he  touched.  He  was  an 
unforgettable  person;  no  one  could  have  worked  or  studied 
with  him  without  realizing  his  love  for  physics  and  the  joy  and 
enthusiasm  with  which  he  approached  his  academic  responsi- 
bilities. 


Prof.  Mayer  at  his  physics  lecture — from, 
endpapers  of  the  1960  Peddler 


"Professor  Mayer  was  the  best  teacher  under  whom  I  ever 
studied  —  a  master  from  the  viewpoint  of  his  understanding  of 
good  pedagogy.  His  thoroughness  as  an  instructor  provided  me 
with  a  good  foundation  in  classical  physics  which  was  most 
important  to  me  in  graduate  school.  I  believe  he  was  most 
successful  as  a  teacher  because  of  his  realization  that  one 
learns  best  through  practice  and  repetition.  He  would  give  us 
problem  set  after  problem  set,  most  of  which  he  graded 
himself.  How  often  that  little  note  —  'See  me!  KLM' 
appeared  on  his  students'  papers  —  just  one  measure  of  the 
hours  of  time  he  was  willing  to  spend  in  personal  conference 
with  them.  Those  who  took  advantage  of  all  the  extra  effort 
he  put  forth  were  undoubtedly  the  beneficiaries. 

"We  can  remember  him  for  many  things:  his  immaculate 
appearance,  his  sharp  dress,  his  use  of  practically  every 
conceivable  demonstration  in  P-3  lectures,  his  mechanics  notes 
with  which  he  would  fill  the  blackboards  on  three  walls,  his 
pride  in  having  walked  to  the  Institute  and  arrived  promptly 
on  the  snowiest  of  mornings;  but  most  of  all  his  concern  for 
the  physical,  emotional,  and  educational  well-being  of  his 
students.  Those  who  kept  in  contact  after  they  left  the 
Institute  realize  how  pleased  he  was  to  hear  from  his  former 
students,  his  pleasure  in  seeing  their  names  among  (he  authors 
of  scholarly  and  technical  articles,  and  his  joy  in  receiving 
reprints  of  their  work.    He   always  would  inquire  about  my 


classmates  by  name  and  be  disappointed  if  I  had  nothing  m 
to  report. 

"As  far  as  I  am  aware,  his  greatest  professional  concern 
recent  years  was  to  maintain  Tech's  reputation  as  an  01 
standing  undergraduate  institution  rather  than  to  eomjfl 
with  the  large  universities  in  graduate  education.  Profess 
Mayer  was  convinced  that  the  finest  contribution  WPI  coo 
make  to  the  scientific  and  engineering  communities  was 
produce  college  graduates  who  could  be  counted  on  to  do  Ml 
in  their  careers  -  to  stand  among  the  best. 

"Often  we  fail  to  tell  others  how  much  they  have  meant) 
us  until  suddenly  it  is  too  late.  I  hope  Professor  Mayer  realij] 
that  he  had  a  profound  influence  on  my  life,  for  in  addition] 
all  that  he  taught  me  he  urged  me  into  graduate  work  ai 
helped  me  find  an  acceptable  and  realistic  accommodation! 
interests  in  physics  and  music.  Besides  being  grateful,  I  a 
proud  that  I  feel  able  to  acknowledge  him  as  having  been  n 
friend." 

Kurt  Mayer's  passing  was  deeply  felt  on  campus.  A  meeting 
faculty  and  students  who  knew  him  decided  that  the  best  wi 
to  honor  his  memory,  in  view  ot  Ins  lifelong  dedii 
teaching,  is  to  establish  a  scholarship  fund  in  his  name,  Alum 
who  wish  to  contribute  to  the  fund  may  do  so  in  care  of  tl 
University  Relations  Office  ai  WPI. 


Pi's  Gadget  Man  Packs  In  His  Tools 

Ernest  Gutierrez 


the   aisle  of  electricity,  Edwin  Anderson  rubbed  a  thick 
ss  rod  with  rabbit  fur  and  slowly  swept  the  rod  over  the 
I  <  of  his  hand.  "Static  electricity,"  he  proclaimed,  as  the 
i  s  on  the  back  of  his  hand  reached  up  for  the  rod. 
I  As  a  physics  lecture  assistant,  Edwin  Anderson  has  spent 
|  ^ears  setting  up  experiments  for  WPI  students  to  prove  the 
tence  of,  and  to  measure,  light  and  sound,  heat  and  cold, 
tricity  and  magnetism,  and  other  elemental  forces. 
He   pointed   out   instruments   as  though   introducing   old, 
^ble  friends.  Many  are  no  longer  used,  victims  of  progress. 
■-  shift  in  WPI  curriculum  from  a  structured  program  to  the 
fljl  Plan  stressing  student  initiative,  plus  a  shorter  term,  have 
a  down  on  lectures. 

But  Anderson  remembers  years  of  busier  days  when  his 
;ieriments  regularly  proved  basic  physics  principles.  "These 
Bigs,"  he  gave  a  sweeping  gesture  to  the  shelves  crammed 
wh  instruments,  "were  all  used  for  dozens  of  different 
:»eriments.  The  basics  are  the  same.  Some  of  these  instru- 
flnts  really  haven't  been  improved.  The  basic  principles  of 
i/sics  stay  the  same." 

|  In  the  beginning,  Anderson  intended  the  lecture  assistant 
a  to  be  temporary  and  hoped  to  continue  his  formal 
Sication.  "But  the  depression  came,"  he  said.  "I  know  the 
lie  principles,  but  I  never  got  the  higher  mathematics." 
I  On  a  middle  shelf  in  an  aisle  of  mixed  instruments, 
^jlderson  leafed  through  a  dusty  pile  of  barometric  pressure 
lirts.  He  found  the  one  he  was  looking  for  —  the  day  of  the 
frricane  of  1938.  Next  to  the  charts  were  a  dozen  dusty 
Ifometers.  "We  used  to  have  the  boys  carry  them  up  to 
licroft  Tower  to  measure  the  difference  in  barometric 
Assure  as  you  get  higher." 

I  "I  collect  antiques.  Some  of  these  instruments  are  an- 
lues.  Some  were  old  when  I  came  here."  He  stopped  near  a 
I  old  black  projector  that  took  large  glass  slides.  It  carried  a 
Ite  saying  it  was  donated  by  the  Class  of  1897  in  1928.  On  a 
krby  table  Anderson  pointed  out  the  modern  slide  projector 
Id  today.  The  old  projector  was  gathering  dust. 
!  Anderson  said  he  will  avoid  the  old  projector's  fate.  After 
I  years  of  the  science  of  physics,  Anderson  will  devote  much 
(  his  retirement  time  to  photography.  "I  really  enjoy 
jotography.  So  far,  I've  been  taking  mostly  color  slides." 


He  said  he  will  be  using  some  of  the  skills  acquired  in  his 
work  for  his  own  pleasure.  "You  have  to  be  everything  to  do 
this  job  —  an  audio  man,  a  carpenter,  an  electrician." 

In  the  busier  days,  Anderson  preferred  to  build  rather  than 
buy  equipment  when  possible.  Two  of  his  amplifiers  were 
being  used  in  a  lecture  while  he  was  being  interviewed.  "I  built 
them  15  years  ago,  and  they're  still  working." 

Will  he  miss  the  job? 

"I  suppose  I  will.  I've  enjoyed  working  with  the  kids.  I  call 
them  kids,  but  I  probably  shouldn't.  They're  wonderful 
people." 

"I  told  them  I'd  come  back  if  they  needed  help  with 
anything,  but  not  on  the  first  day  of  retirement.  I  want  to 
sleep  until  9  a.m.  for  a  change." 


Reprinted  from  the  Worcester  Evening  Gazette 


□ 


of  CAT! 


and  JJOJJJii 


^ 


i) 


and 


18 


by  Ruth  Trask 


It  was  Intercession  again  (described  by  someone  at  Wl lit 
"January  diversion  from  normality"),  and  there  were  sort 
strange  doings  on  and  around  the  campus.  About  165  cout  P(C 
were  offered  in  the  catalog,  and  some  180  were  actually  gii|p- 
(!)  —  that's  one  of  the  interesting  things  that  happens  when.jf'f 
one  is  compelled  to  do  anything.  P 

A  year  ago  the  WPI  Journal  offered  a  wide-ranging  lookP 
the  variety  of  subjects  explored.  This  time  we're  going  to  l|>- 
you  about  three  courses  —  courses  which  might  be  groups 
(quite  loosely)  under  the  general  heading  of  religion. 


r 


Introduction  to  Yoga 

The    heat    in    the    windowless  wrestling   room  at   Harringj 
Auditorium  rose  to  a  stifling  80  degrees. 

"The  atmosphere  in  here  is  not  exactly  conducive  to 
practice    of   good    yoga,"    announces   Margaret    Kranich, 
instructor  of  the  course  along  with  her  husband,  Dr.  WilnJ 
Kranich,  the  George  C.  Gordon  Professor  of  Chemical  E( 
neering  and  department  head  at  WPI. 

"But  we'll  manage,"  she  continues.  "Everybody  relax 
the  mats  while  we  listen  to  a  lecture  on  Hinduism  and  Yogi 

Dr.  Kranich  talks  about  the  concept  of  Hinduism,  reino 
nation,  and  the  yoga  philosophy.  He  says  that  Hindus  belis 
that  people  are  reborn  again  and  again  into  either  higher! 
lower  life  forms,  and  that  how  one  lives  his  life  determin 
whether  he  will  have  a  good  or  bad  karma.  (According  to  d 
Hindu  explanation,  any  apparently  undeserved  pleasure  i 
pain  comes  as  a  result  of  deeds  done  in  a  previous  existena 

He  explains  that  priestly  asceticism  has  been  of  prin 
importance  in  India.  Cutting  onself  off  from  the  endless  whi 
of  life,  death,  and  rebirth  in  order  to  be  at  one  with  d 
universal  spirit  becomes  the  be-all  and  end-all  of  a  Hindu  yog 
existence.  Some  yoga  practitioners  are  able  to  meditji 
unceasingly  for  days,  weeks,  even  years  at  a  time. 

Yogi  ascetics  live  alone  and  exercise  complete  control  oil 
their  minds  and  bodies.  They  have  no  valuable  earti 
possessions,  believing  that  desire  is  the  key  to  evil.  In  order| 
meditate  undisturbed  they  find  a  firm  place  to  sit  an 
concentrate.  Assuming  the  cross-legged  lotus  position  wft 
head,  neck,  and  spine  erect  and  vision  indrawn,  a  y0| 
transports  himself  to  ultimate  peace. 

Dr.  Kranich's  talk  is  over.  The  students  who  are  lyit 
down  sit  up  on  the  floor  mats.  The  seated  students  stretch  01 
their  legs  and  shake  them. 

Mrs.  Kranich  tells  the  class  to  stand  up  and  get  ready  fi 
yoga  exercises,  warning  everyone  not  to  push  too  hard.  After 
number  of  stretching  exercises  and  a  series  of  knee-stretchB 
bends,  she  feels  that  the  students  are  ready  for  the  ploiJ 
position. 

The  young  yoga  enthusiasts  lie  on  their  backs  and  pu 
their  feet  up  over  their  heads  with  legs  straight.  About  eight  ( 
the  twenty-five  present  manage  to  touch  their  toes  CO  th 
floor. 

"Not  bad,"  comments  Mrs.  Kranich.  "Now  do  the  fish." 

The  students,  still  on  their  backs,  arch  up  their  chests  M 
rest  the  tops  of  their  heads  on  the  floor. 

"A  good  lung  stretcher,"  observes  the  instructor,  wh 
takes  time  out  to  teach  the  class  yoga  breathing. 

"Don't  breath  COO  deeply  or  too  long,"  she  cautiol 
"There's  a  danger  that  you  can  become  super  oxygenated  ■ 
take  off  on  a  trip  that  you  don't  expect." 

After  the  breathing  exercises  she  has  everyone  writhing! 


'( 


intal  position  mimicking  cobras.  When  the  "cobras"  turn 
•""cats"  the  exercise  period  is  over. 

'erspiration  drips  off  the  participants,  but  no  one  is 
plaining  of  the  heat  or  sore  muscles.  In  fact,  most  feel  in 
ap  condition,  their  limbs  limbered,  mental  cobwebs 
>ved,  and  their  spines  made  more  supple. 
Ars.  Kranich  tells  them,  "You  are  as  young  as  your  spine." 
dng  at  the  lithe  and  lively  instructors  (who,  incidentally, 
i  on  their  heads  each  evening),  the  class  has  to  agree. 


Joseph's  Abbey 

iks  are  "holier  than  thou."  Monks  have  no  sense  of  humor. 

Iks  are  an  anachronism  in  this  age  of  men  on  the  moon. 

|pght? 

tVrong!     At    least    at    St.    Joseph's    Abbey,    a    Christian 

lastic  commune  in  Spencer,  Mass. 

Brother  Basil  (the  Reverend  M.  Basil  Pennington),  garbed 

i  long  white  robe,  black  tunic,  and  hooded  bench-warmer 

let,  greeted  Prof.  Donald  Johnson's  Intersession  group  in 

It  of  the  abbey  church. 

He  smiled,  even  though  the  students  were  a  few  minutes 

i   (Their  very  large  bus  had  become  unexpectedly  trapped 

de  a  very  small  walled  courtyard,  but  an  expert  bus  driver 

itually  jockeyed  it  out.) 

"Welcome   to   St.   Joseph's,"   said    Brother  Basil.  "You're 

in  time  for  the  guitar  service." 

He  ushered  the  group  into  a  semienclosed  section  of  the 

rch  where  the  astonishingly  modern  and  beautiful  guitar 

ice  could  be  heard  but  not  seen.  The  singing  and  playing 

id  about  fifteen  minutes  during  which  time  the  class  could 

reciate  the  handsome  stone  architecture  and  stained  glass 

dows  which  were  visible  over  the  top  of  the  barrier  wall. 


Following  the  service  the  women  were  gently  but  firmly 
segregated  from  the  men. 

"I'm  sorry,"  Brother  Basil  explained,  "but  the  ladies  will 
have  to  go  with  Brother  Raphael  while  the  men  are  shown 
through  the  main  parts  of  the  cloister  and  the  abbey." 

When  asked  why,  he  answered:  "Because  women  aren't 
prospective  monks." 

So  Brother  Raphael  led  his  flock  to  a  charmingly  paneled 
room  where  he  told  them  about  communal  living  as  experi- 
enced at  the  Trappist  community.  He  explained  that  a  monk's 
day  starts  at  3:15  a.m.  and  ends  at  8:00  p.m.  Worship  services, 
private  meditation,  and  prayer  are  interspersed  with  periods  of 
work  and  silence. 

Work  could  be  teaching  scripture,  making  vestments  and 
jams,  or  doing  maintenance  jobs. 

He  smiled.  "Sometimes  we  do  things  that  are  not  quite  up 
to  our  potential,"  he  said.  "For  instance  for  several  years  one 
of  the  brothers,  who  was  a  well-known  artist  outside,  worked 
as  a  bricklayer  when  he  joined  the  order.  We  needed 
bricklayers  more  than  artists  at  the  time." 

Hoping  not  to  give  the  wrong  impression,  he  explained 
further.  "We  usually  do  find  a  niche  where  our  talents  fit  in 
best.  And  we  are  not  poured  into  a  strict  mold.  Religiously 
speaking,  for  example,  we  range  from  the  far  left  to  the  far 
right." 

"Where  do  most  of  the  monks  come  from?"  he  was  asked. 

"From  the  city,"  he  replied.  "The  median  age  of  the 
brothers  is  38  and  we  have  a  waiting  list.  Actually,"  he 
continued,  "a  widower  usually  finds  that  he  can  adapt  more 
readily  to  our  way  of  life.  He  has  already  learned  how  to  live 
with  others." 

Brother  Raphael  went  on  to  say  that  the  brothers  were 
allowed  to  visit  their  homes  if  their  parents  were  ill  and  could 
not  travel  to  visit  them  at  the  abbey.  Sometimes  travel  was 
allowed  for  study  or  to  aid  in  the  construction  of  a  new  abbey. 

It  was  time  to  meet  the  men  for  a  slide  show  which  was  to 
be  presented  by  Brother  Gerald.  Along  the  way  Brother 
Raphael  asked,  "What  do  you  suppose  this  stone  structure  is?" 

"It  looks  like  a  high  well,"  a  girl  replied. 

"It  was  a  windmill  once,"  he  said.  "We  had  a  meeting  and 
everyone  thought  that  it  would  be  a  great  place  to  put  pigeons. 
For  three  days  everyone  thought  that.  Then  somebody 
remembered  what  pigeons  do.  .  .  " 

The  visit  to  St.  Joseph's  was  nearly  over.  But  the  students 
couldn't  leave  without  a  stop  at  the  abbey  gift  shop.  There 
they  stocked  up  on  the  sinfully  rich  jam  and  fudge  whipped  up 
by  the  brothers  during  their  work  periods. 

With  each  purchase  the  monk  at  the  cash  register  gave  a 
gift  in  return.  He  said,  "God  bless  you." 


19 


Continued  overleaf 


* 


"^s^ 


"That  Old  Black  Magic.  .  .  " 

Who  lives  in  a  black  house  in  the  woods,  has  a  tombstone  in 
the  yard,  and  a  skull  inside  the  house? 

If  you  guessed  a  witch,  you'd  be  right.  But  if  you  thought 
it  was  a  lady  witch,  you  were  wrong. 

This  witch  is  blond,  has  a  pierced  ear,  deep  blue  eyes,  and 
his  name  is  Ted  Rabouin.  Although  he's  billed  as  the  Warlock 
of  Westboro  (Mass.),  he  prefers  to  be  called  a  male  witch 
rather  than  a  warlock.  He  admits  to  being  the  head  of  the 
witches'  cult  in  New  England. 

As  one  of  the  speakers  in  TProf.  Thomas  Keil's  witchcraft 
class,  he  fascinated  his  audience  with  tales  of  his  psychic 
abilities,  his  use  of  tarot  cards  in  telling  fortunes,  and  his 
unusual  home  life. 

He  explained  that  electricity  interferes  with  his  natural 
powers  so  he  does  all  his  clairvoyant  work  and  readings  by 
candlelight.  Mostly  women  and  young  people  seek  his  services. 

Rabouin  loves  cats  and  has  a  house  full  of  them. 

"Not  because  I'm  a  witch,"  he  says.  "I  just  like  to  have 
them  around." 

His  real  affection  for  cats  is  one  reason  he  refuses  to 
participate  in  black  magic,  because  this  type  of  witchcraft 
requires  the  sacrificing  of  animals.  He  is,  in  fact,  a  staunch 
supporter  of  the  Antivivisection  Society. 

He  also  has  strong  feelings  about  conveying  his  authentic- 
ity as  a  witch.  Known  nationally,  he  has  appeared  on  the 
David  Frost  television  show  and  has  met  with  a  number  of 
experts  in  psychic  circles. 

Another  local  witch,  Ron  Parshley  of  Worcester  radio 
station  WAAB,  spoke  about  witchcraft  as  a  religion.  He 
believes  that  it  frees  a  person's  mind  and  offers  him  limitless 
opportunity.  Ritual  magic,  he  says,  is  the  manipulation  of 
energy  and  can  be  done  by  anyone.  A  witch,  however,  must  do 
the  more  formal  ceremonies. 

According  to  Parshley,  harmony  is  the  main  purpose  of  the 
practice  of  witchcraft.  It  can  help  heal  an  ill  person  or  boost 
someone  up  the  ladder  of  success.  This  process  is  called  white 
magic  and  is  one  of  the  positive  facets  of  witchcraft. 

"I  suppose  you've  heard  about  the  nudity  and  orgies  that 
take  place  at  our  ceremonies,"  he  said.  "The  only  reason  for 
the  nudity,"  he  explained,  "is  to  help  each  member  of  the 
coven  receive  increased  psychic  energy.  Clothes  get  in  the  way 
by  interrupting  the  energy  process.  I'm  not  saying  that  there  is 


no  sex  at  our  meetings.  After  all  witchcraft  is  based  on  8 
concept  of  fertility.  But  when  there  is  sex,  it  is  responsib 

He  laughed.  "If  you  still  have  inhibitions,  you  can  alt 
join  a  cult  that  wears  bathing  suits  during  the  ceremoi 
That's  the  thing  about  wicca  (witchcraft).  You  can  do  aln 
anything  you  want." 

Mrs.  Enid  Hoffman,  from  the  University  of  Connecti 
told  a  remarkable  story  of  how  she  exorcised  a  bad  spirit  fi 
a  bookcase  wall  in  a  student's  apartment.  The  ghost  had 
gall  to  follow  Mrs.  Hoffman  home,  gaze  at  her  during  her  b: 
and  glower  at  her  from  her  bedside. 

She    finally    tired    of    this    ritual    and     confronted 
unwelcome  female  guest,  psychically,  face  to  face. 

"O.K.,  ghost,  I'm  stronger  than  you  are,"  she  said.  I 
compassionate.  You  are  not.  You  are  evil.  Leave  this  place, 
where  you  belong.  You  don't  belong  here." 

The  ghost,  seemingly  hesitant  for  a  moment,  was  repoi 
to  have  said,  "I'm  sorry."  Then  she  vanished  and  was  ni 
heard  from  again. 

"Exorcism  is  only  a  minor  part  of  witchcraft  and  mag 
Mrs.  Hoffman  explained.  "Actually  some  of  the  grea 
practitioners  of  magic  are  the  kahunas  or  Hawaiian  medii 
men.  Many  are  said  to  be  able  to  change  the  weather  and  I 
with  departed  spirits  who  live  again  in  other  forms." 

She  warned  of  the  psychic  vampires  among  us.  She  .< 
that  this  type  of  vampire  is  full  of  expressed  or  unexpres 
self-pity.  Such  a  person  drains  psychic  energy  from  everyi 
he  encounters,  leaving  his  victims  mentally  and  physio 
exhausted. 

Mrs.  Hoffman  noted  a  number  of  psychic  methods  t 
can  result  in  healing.  One  is  a  mind  control  method  in  wh 
people  are  trained  to  become  more  psychically  aware.  Migra 
headaches  have  reportedly  been  cured  through  this  process, 
another  method,  subjects  or  patients  are  taught  to  control  a 
bodily  function,  including  their  heartbeat,  so  that  severe  he 
attacks  can  be  automatically  averted. 

The  class  was  interested  in  the  theory  of  rein  earn  atk 
Mrs.  Hoffman,  who  is  quite  convinced  in  the  validity  of  tl 
theory  herself,  gave  the  students  a  quick  awareness  techniq 
for  mind  regression,  one  that  nearly  always  works. 

So  if  a  VVPI  student  suddenly  roars  like  a  lion  or  talks Ij 
William  the  Conqueror,  don't  blame  Aztec  Gold  or  jl 
Barleycorn.  And  don't  call  Worcester  State  Hospital 
probably  just  discovering  who  he  was.  .  .  . 


lie 


SELMA  S.  JEPPSON 

elma  S.  Jeppson,  widow  of  George 

jppson,    '97,    former    president    and 

an    of    the    board    of    Norton    Co., 

ister,   died    in   January.    In    1941    the 

pns    presented    their    home    at    One 

I  Lane  to  WPI.  It  is  now  the  official 

iqnce  of  WPI's  president. 

Pl'IS  WILLIAMS.   '07 

I  Williams  passed  away  on  January  1 3, 
7  following  a  very  long  illness, 
■iwas  born  in  Foxboro,  Mass.,  on  March 
384.  He  received  his  BS  in  mechanical 
peering  from  WPI  in  1 907.  After  serving 
inber  of  years  as  president  of  Standard 
Bit  Seal  Corp.,  New  York  City,  he  retired 
ilecame  a  consulting  engineer. 
■I  was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa 
Inity. 

LLAN    KING.   '11 

Ulan    King    of    Pompton    Plains,    N.J., 
;^d  away  on  January  19,  1973. 
-  was  a  native  of  Washington,  D.C.  In 
I    he    received    his    BS    in    electrical 
jeering  from  WPI. 

1 1 954  he  retired  from  Western  Electric 
.[Kearny,  N.J.,  where  he  had  been  a 
«  inspector  since  1936.  Earlier  he  had 
I  associated  with  U.S.  Resettlement 
rjnistration  in  Pennsylvania;  Consoli- 
I  Gas  Co.,  New  York;  and  United 
jieers  &  Constructors. 
I!  King  was  a  life  member  of  the  Tele- 
He  Pioneers  of  America  and  the  American 
lute  of  Electrical  Engineers.  He  was  a 
«ber  of  Tau  Beta  Pi  and  also  had  served 
lice  president  of  the  Northern  New 
ly  chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association. 
1  was  the  brother  of  Howard   P.  King, 


)VARD  S.    MARTIN.   '14 

lard  S.  Martin  died  January  5,  1973  in 

i:ester.  He  was  82. 

I  r  many  years  he  worked  as  a  mechanical 

jieer  at  Norton  Co.  and  Morgan  Con- 

tion  in  Worcester. 

'  Worcester  native,  he  was  a  50-year 
i  ber  of  Montacute  Lodge  of  Masons  and 
i st  master  of  all  levels  of  the  Scottish 
I  of  Masons.  He  also  belonged  to  the 
irican  Legion, 
jring  World  War  I  he  was  with  the  29th 

neers  at  Fort  Meyers,  Va.,  and  served 

them  for  a  year  in  France. 


ELLERY   E.    ROYAL,   '16 

Ellery  E.  Royal,  78,  former  superintendent  of 
the  Belmont  Home  in  Worcester,  died 
January  18,  1973  in  Sarasota,  Florida. 

He  was  born  in  Harvard,  Mass.  After 
graduating  as  a  mechanical  engineer,  he 
worked  for  Reed  &  Prince  Mfg.  Co.;  became 
president  of  U.S.  Screw  &  Stamping  Co.; 
and  later  became  affiliated  with  the  City  of 
Worcester  from  1932  until  1968. 

He  devised  mechanical  equipment  used 
by  patients  at  the  Belmont  Home  and  was 
responsible  for  the  transfer  from  the  Home 
Farm  to  Belmont  Home. 

Mr.  Royal  was  a  World  War  I  Army 
veteran  and  served  with  the  Ordnance 
Corps.  He  was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma 
Kappa  and  a  former  member  of  the  Alumni 
Council. 

CLAYTON  T.    PIERCE,   '20 

Clayton  T.  Pierce,  77,  passed  away  Decem- 
ber 25,  1972  in  Massachusetts. 

He  was  born  in  Dalton,  Mass.,  on  Sept. 
28,  1895  and  later  studied  at  WPI  where  he 
was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa  Fra- 
ternity. 

Prior  to  his  retirement  he  was  a  self- 
employed  insurance  agent  in  Dalton. 

ALFRED    H.   WESSLEN.   '24 

Alfred  H.  Wesslen,  71,  a  retired  industrial 
engineer,  died  January  19,  1973  in 
Worcester. 

At  his  retirement  party,  held  in  1966,  he 
was  feted  by  the  Ware  Knitters  25-year  Club 
as  being  the  first  employee  on  the  payroll 
when  the  firm  was  founded  in  1  938. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  graduated  as  a 
mechanical  engineer  from  WPI  in  1924.  He 
worked  for  Crompton  &  Knowles;  Gilbert  & 
Barker  Co.,  West  Springfield;  U.S.  Finishing 
Co.,  Pawtucket,  R.I.;  American  Woolen  Co., 
Lawrence;  Ware  Valley  Manufacturing  Co., 
and  E-Z  Mills,  Bennington,  Vt.,  before  join- 
ing Ware  (Mass.)  Knitters,  Inc.,  as  a  con- 
sulting engineer. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  Republican  Town 
Committee  in  West  Brookfield. 

BURTON    E.    KELLEY,   '27 

Burton  E.  Kelley,  president  of  CBF  Systems, 
Inc.,  Covina,  Calif.,  died  on  January  4, 1 973. 
He  was  67. 

Mr.  Kelley  was  born  in  Springfield,  Mass., 
and  later  studied  at  WPI  where  he  was  a 
member  of  Phi  Gamma  Delta.  Prior  to  his 
latest  position,  he  had  been  associated  with 
Commonwealth  Management  Consultants; 
U.S.  Plywood-Champion  Papers,  Inc.; 
Ebasco  Services,  Inc.;  and  Best  Foods,  Inc.; 
all  of  New  York  City. 

He  was  past  president  of  the  American 
Society  of  Insurance  Management,  Inc.,  and 
served  as  an  insurance  lecturer  at  eight 
universities.  He  also  held  the  chairmanship 
of  the  American  Management  Association 
Insurance  Division  of  Conferences  and 
Seminars. 


CLARE   S.    RILEY,   '28 

Clare  S.  Riley,  67,  former  manager  of 
district  sales  with  Hartford  Empire,  now 
Emhart  Corp.,  Bloomfield,  Conn.,  died 
January  6,  1973  in  Clearwater,  Florida. 

He  was  born  in  Northampton,  Mass.  and 
later  studied  at  WPI.  During  his  career  he 
was  director  of  purchases  for  Metro  Glass 
Bottle  Division  of  National  Dairies  until  his 
retirement  in  1  970. 

Mr.  Riley  was  a  member  of  Alpha  Tau 
Omega. 

DONALD    C.    CONVERSE,   '31 

Donald  C.  Converse,  64,  died  on  January 
3  in  Hyannis,  Massachusetts  following  a 
long  illness. 

He  was  born  in  Bridgeport,  Conn.  After 
studying  at  WPI  and  MIT,  he  was  employed 
at  Builders  Iron  Foundry  in  Providence,  R.I., 
and  later  in  Philadelphia. 

He  then  moved  to  Hyannis  where  he 
worked  for  the  Colonial  Candle  Company. 
During  his  lifetime  he  also  owned  and 
operated  a  gift  shop  in  Hyannis  and  a 
restaurant  in  South  Yarmouth;  founded  the 
West  End  Businessmen's  Association  of 
Hyannis;  operated  his  own  construction 
business;  and  was  employed  as  a  mechanical 
engineer  at  Cape  Cod  Hospital. 

Mr.  Converse  was  a  member  of  Sigma 
Alpha  Epsilon  Fraternity  and  a  past  president 
of  the  Hyannis  Rotary  Club. 

CLINTON    E.    LEECH,   '36 

Clinton  E.  Leech  of  Summit,  New  Jersey 
recently  passed  away. 

A  mechanical  engineering  graduate,  he 
was  born  in  Springfield,  Mass.  on  May  27, 
1914.  At  WPI  he  was  a  member  of  Sigma 
Phi  Epsilon,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  and  Skull. 

For  many  years  he  was  with  the  Public 
Service  Electric  &  Gas  Co.,  Newark,  N.J., 
where  he  was  a  planning  and  consulting 
engineer. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  American  Gas 
Association,  the  New  Jersey  Gas  Associa- 
tion, and  the  Society  of  Gas  Operators,  New 
York  City. 

PAUL  M.    RUSSO,  '71 

Paul  M.  Russo,  23,  died  on  January  1 ,  1 973 
in  Thorndike,  Massachusetts. 

He  was  born  in  Palmer.  In  1971  he  re- 
ceived his  BS  in  civil  engineering  from  WPI 
where  he  was  a  member  of  Phi  Kappa 
Theta  Fraternity. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  American  Society 
of  Civil  Engineers  and  was  employed  by 
Tighe  &  Bond,  Inc.,  Holyoke,  Mass. 


21 


Your  Class 
and  Others 


22 


1907 


Married:  L.  HERBERT  CARTER  and  Mrs. 
Helen  Rollins  on  January  7,  1973  in  Menlo 
Park,  Calif. 


1910 


CHARLES  E.  BARNEY  writes  that  he  re- 
ceived a  lot  of  news  concerning  his  class- 
mates over  the  Christmas  holidays  for 
which  he  was  most  grateful.  From  Mrs. 
WILLIAM  R.  BELL  he  learned  that  her  hus- 
band is  ill  and  cannot  write  personally.  She 
says  that  they  fly  to  Paxton  and  Holden  in 
the  summer  and  spend  winters  in  their 
"ideal"  location  in  Sarasota,  Fla.  .  .  .  ALVAN 
L.  GROUT  of  Largo,  Fla.,  who  was  the  only 
1910  man  at  the  '71  reunion,  hopes  to  see 
more  at  the  65th.  He  writes  that  he  hasn't 
seen  snow  for  years.  .  .  .  EDWARD  A. 
HANFF  and  his  wife,  Tex,  of  Pittsburgh,  are 
both  well  and  enjoying  retirement.  .  .  .  FRED 
L  HEWES  of  Old  Bridge,  N.J.,  poses  the 
question,  "Would  you  like  to  go  around 
again?  I  wonder."  Recently  he  saw  CARL 
ATHERTON  at  the  Kimball  Towers  in 
Springfield,  Mass.  Carl  is  alone  but  "philo- 
sophical." Fred  also  visited  the  Barneys  in 
South  Hadley.  .  .  .  LEONARD  W.  HOWELL, 
Eastham,  Mass.,  retired  from  the  insurance 
business  last  May  and  now  lives  with  his 
daughter  on  the  Cape.  .  .  .  OLIVER  0. 
JACOBS  is  enjoying  life  and  looking  for- 
ward to  the  65th  class  reunion.  .  .  .  IRVING 
L.  PETERS  summers  on  the  Cape.  His  four 
children  are  college  graduates,  as  are  five  of 
his  ten  grandchildren  to  date.  .  .  .  DANIEL 
H.  REAMY  of  Fort  Myers  is  enjoying  life  in 
Florida.  He  writes  that  he  has  twice  traveled 
the  world  both  east  and  west.  .  .  .  PAUL  E. 
TWISS,  Orlando,  Fla.,  still  drives  on  short 
shopping  trips.  He  and  his  wife  celebrated 
their  55th  wedding  anniversary  last  Septem- 
ber. .  .  .  MILLARD  CLEMENT  is  "trying  not 
to  give  up  to  old  age."  Mr.  Barney  says, 
"The  same  goes  for  the  Charles  Barneys  in 
South  Hadley." 


1923 


FREDERICK  H.  SCHEER,  the  former  super- 
visor, engineering  technical  services,  West- 
inghouse  Electric  Co.,  Metuchen,  N.J.,  has 
retired. 


1925 


HARRY  G.  STANGE  has  retired  from  Public 
Service  Electric  &  Gas  in  New  Jersey. 


1927 


ROBERT  L.  PARKER  writes  that  he  is  re- 
covering nicely  from  a  twenty-foot  fall  from 
the  roof  of  a  barn  he  was  repairing.  Injuries 
included  a  fractured  hip  and  four  pelvic 
fractures.  He  expects  to  resume  his  consult- 
ing work  in  Boston  soon. 


1928 


FRANK  E.  BUXTON  has  retired  from1 
duties  with  New  England  Power  Serv 
Co.,  Westboro,  Mass.  .  .  .  ANDREW, 
TOUSSAINT  has  also  retired.  He  wasfij 
Transport  Equipment  Co.,  South  Norvti 
Conn. 


1929 

DIRAN   DERANIAN  is  retired.    He  wasM 
Heald  Machine  Co.,  Worcester. 


1930 

THEODORE  W.  JONES  has  retired  at 
forty-four  years  of  service  with  the  fi 
Haven  (Conn.)  Trap  Rock  Company,  w)i 
he  was  vice  president  for  administralio 
During  his  career  he  designed  a  stc 
crusher  and  worked  as  a  safety,  materia 
and  blasting  engineer.  Later  he  becai 
production  manager  and  construction  s» 

ices  vice  president PAUL  E.  REYNOLt 

has  retired  from  Civil  Service,  Edgewa 
Arsenal,  Md.  He  is  a  retired  lieutew 
colonel,  U.S.  Army  Reserve,  Chen 
Corps. 


1932 


ELLIS  R.  SPAULDING  is  branch  head) 
Calspan  Corp.,  Buffalo,  N.Y. 


1933 


HENRY  C.  ASHLEY  has  retired  as  manac 
applications  engineering.  Chase  Brass 
Copper  Co.,  Cleveland,  Ohio.  .  .  .■ 
Engineer  EUGENE  TEIR  of  Gardner,  Mas 
is  now  retired  after  31  years  of  service.  !• 
plans  to  do  some  free-lance  engineering' 
private  firms. 


1934 

J.  LEONARD  BURNETT  is  product  ma 
at  Contempo  Company,  Cambridge, 
.  .  .  CHARLES  S.  FRARY,  JR.,  is  no 
American  Biltrite  Rubber  Co. 


/  * 


1935 


C.  MARSHALL  DANN,  chief  patent  coi* 
for  the  du  Pont  Company,  is  the  new  p» 
dent  of  the  American  Patent  Law  AssOOl 
tion.  .  .  .  WALTER  B.  EKLUND  owns* 
operates  Eklund  Associates,  Wilbrafl 
Mass. 

Retiring  early  from  a  lifetime  of  prol» 
sional    engineering    with    the    governn 
LADISLAUS   T    JODAITIS   has   shifte 
his  parallel  avocation  to  complete  a 
outlining   his  breakthroughs  concerning 


t  :oric  evolution  of  languages.  Circum- 
it  g  taboos  and  comparative  linguistics, 
mary  research  data  were  the  expres- 
rlof  natural  science  (in  its  broadest 
which  persist  in  words  of  living 
djiges  composed  in  prehistoric  times. 
d  is  resides  in  Milton,  Mass. 


jpii 


1941 


1944 


£38 


gjERICK  J.  BURG,  vice  president  of 
:di:t  planning  for  Salton,  Inc.,  New  York 
Jwas  the  idea  man  behind  Salton's 
a^jr  egg  cooker,  bun  warmer,  and  the 
:aily  introduced  pizza  keeper  and  yogurt 
iki.  According  to  a  recent  issue  of  Ap- 
aie  Manufacturer,  Fred  has  been 
.  a;ed  six  patents  on  product  components 
d  Mother  on  the  egg  cooker  design  since 
ssrted  out  with  Salton  13  years  ago.  .  .  . 
EMY  M.  RITZ  was  recently  honored  at  a 
in  marking  his  35  years  as  president  of 
ii  Plumbing  Supply  Corp.,  Worcester. 
^S\NCIS  L.  WITKEGE  has  retired  as 
•oi/  assistant  chief  topographic  engineer 
r  ans  and  programs  development  with 
e  IS.  Geological  Survey.  Upon  retirement 

reived  a  special  achievement  award  in 
cohition  of  his  contributions  as  an 
gi|3er-administrator  in  the  field  of  topo- 
ap'c  mapping.  Previously  he  was  pre- 
nyl the  meritorious  service  award  of  the 
epitment  of  Interior.  He  was  also  granted 
liftnembership  in  the  American  Congress 

'.  rveying  and  Mapping.  Frank  and  his 
fe-orraine,  are  looking  forward  to  trailer- 
3  hroughout  the  U.S.,  Canada,  and 
■>  o. 

I 

$39 

te26  years  of  service  with  the  AEC  and 
■oi  haven  National  Laboratory,  JOHN  H. 
FASTER  has  Jeft  to  become  project 
anger  and  assistant  director  of  the  $76 
illh  VLA  (Very  Large  Array)  radio  tele- 
0||  project  slated  to  be  constructed  in 
evj  Mexico.  He  joined  Brookhaven  in 
34  as  chief  of  the  engineering  and  con- 
ruion  branch  in  the  area.  Later  he  became 
irriistrative  officer  of  the  $30  million 
ite!  ating  Gradient  Synchotron  Project  and 
asilso  in  charge  of  the  $48  million  AGS 
on=rsion  Project.  Currently  he  is  em- 
oyd  by  the  National  Radio  Astronomy 
as  vatory. 


i 


140 


-M^E  BOYD,  who  was  a  fellow  engineer 
Wstinghouse  Electric  Corp.,  Baltimore, 
dletired  in  March. . . .  LEONARD  GOLD- 
V|H  currently  serves  as  program  manager 
S  ger-Kearfott  Division,  Wayne,  N.J.  .  .  . 
EIJETH  H.  McCLURE  works  for  K.  H. 
'dure  &  Co.,  Inc.,  Stamford,  Conn.,  where 

chairman SUMNER  MEISELMAN 

th   the    national    headquarters   of  the 
(rr  ican  Automobile  Association  in  Wash- 

ig  i,  D.C ROBERT  B.  NEWTON  cur- 

n    is  employed  by  Westinghouse  Electric 
oi,  Madison,  Pa. 


NORMAN  G.  KLAUCKE  has  retired  as 
manager  of  manufacturing  and  engineering 
at  Acme  Chain  Division  of  North  American 
Rockwell,  Holyoke,  Mass.  Currently  he  is 
living  on  the  Cape  where  he  plans  to  pur- 
sue his  hobbies  in  real  estate  and  commer- 
cial fishing HILLIARD  W.  PAIGE,  presi- 
dent of  General  Dynamics  Corporation,  was 
the  featured  speaker  at  the  annual  meeting 
of  the  South  Shore  Chamber  of  Commerce 
in  Braintree,  Mass.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  F.  PAUL- 
SEN has  been  made  an  engineering  fellow 
at  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Co.,  Wilmington, 
Del. 


1943 


JAMES  H.  PARLIMAN  and  his  family  have 
realized  a  dream — they  have  moved  to 
Woodstock,  Vt.,  and  purchased  their  own 
craft  and  hobby  shop,  "The  Whippletree." 
Recently  Jim  resigned  from  Booz,  Allen  & 
Hamilton  as  an  associate  research  director. 


o 


4&. 

Baharian,  '44 


Freese,  '46 


Gorman,  '46 


ROY  E.  BAHARIAN  has  been  elected  cor- 
porate vice  president  in  charge  of  engineer- 
ing and  purchasing.  Diamond  International 
Corporation,  and  will  be  headquartered  in 
Stamford,  Conn.  In  1956  he  joined  Diamond 
as  a  project  engineer.  In  1963  he  became 
assistant  director  of  manufacturing  for  the 
New  York  Division.  Later  he  was  a  manager, 
Woodenware  Division  in  Stamford.  Last 
year  he  was  appointed  chief  engineer  for 
research  and  engineering  for  Diamond  Inter- 
national. .  .  .  ALAN  C.  GAULT  has  retired 
from  his  duties  as  a  U.S.  Navy  captain  with 
the  Civil  Engineer  Corps.  .  .  .  GEORGE  D. 
WILLIAMS  recently  joined  New  England 
Gas  &  Electric  Association,  Cambridge, 
Mass. 


1945 


ANSON  C.  FYLER  has  been  named  honorary 
chairman  of  the  1973  Greater  Hartford 
(Conn.)  Open  Golf  Tournament,  Aug.  31 
through  Sept.  3.  He  is  chairman  of  the  board 
and  president  of  Arrow-Hart,  Inc.,  and  a 
WPI  trustee.  .  .  .  JOSEPH  F.  TIVNAN,  JR., 
is  with  Paper  Trading  Corp.  of  Worcester. 


1946 


PAUL  V.  FREESE  has  been  appointed  vice 
president  of  the  Washington,  D.C.  office  of 
Camp  Dresser  &  McKee,  Inc.,  environ- 
mental consulting  engineers.  Recently  he 
was  director  of  the  Washington  Water  Re- 
sources Management  Administration,  which 
is  responsible  for  water  and  wastewater 
control  in  the  nation's  capital.  In  his  new 
post  he  will  be  working  on  his  firm's  munic- 
ipal engineering  in  the  area,  in  addition  to 
responsibilities  in  connection  with  CDM 
federal  and  international  projects.  In  1958 
Freese  received  the  National  Capital  Award 
as  the  outstanding  young  engineer  of  the 
year. 

PAUL  F.  GORMAN  has  been  elected 
vice  president-power  (Boston)  and  general 
manager   of  the    Boston    office   of    United 


J'amesbury 
manufacturers  of 
Double-Seal  Ball  Valves 
Wafer-Sphere  Butterfly  Valves 
JFC  Control  Valves 

Jamesbury  Corp.  •  640  Lincoln  Street  •  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 


24 


Where  Are  You  ?  ? 

With  the  current  roster  of  WPI  alumni  at 
around  10,300,  it's  probably  inevitable  that 
we  can't  keep  track  of  them  all.  There  are 
some  300  or  so  alumni  whose  whereabouts 
we  don't  know,  and  this  means  that  we 
can't  send  them  the  WPI  Journal  or  WPI 
Newsbriefs.  The  list  on  this  page  represents 
about  half  the  people  we've  lost  touch  with. 
If  you  can  give  us  information  to  help  locate 
any  of  them,  we  would  be  most  grateful. 
(The  second  half  of  the  list  will  run  in  the 
August  issue.) 


James  H.  Clancy  1890 

Frederic  H.  Leland  1895 

Robert  H.  Taylor  1895 

Edward  L.  Cullen  1896 

Charles  V.  Walter  1896 

Edward  G.  Beckwith  1897 

Roy  G.  Lewis  1900 

Harry  W.  F.  Dunklee  1901 

Winfred  M.  Adams  1902 

Chester  A.  Bacon  1903 

Herbert  W.  Tufts  1903 

Elipidio  De  L.  Werneck  1903 

Manuel  G.  Rosado  1905 

Ralph  S.  Forsstedt  1906 

Walter  P.  Ingham  1906 

George  G.  Whitney  1907 

Elliott  A.  Allen  1908 

Gilbert  C.  Lamb  1908 

James  G.  Goodell  1910 

Stephen  M.  Poutier  1910 

James  F.  Thompson  1910 

Ralph  H.  Bowers  1911 

Martin  H.  Jachens  1911 

Arvid  I.  Perterson  1911 

William  I.  Randall  1911 

Royal  B.  Libby  1912 

Robert  W.  Mungall  1912 

Franklin  Wyman  1912 

Stanley  M.  Gunn  1913 

Charles  0.  Snow  1913 

Edward  H.  Vance  1913 

Harry  D.  Stephens  1914 

Arthur  L.  Thurston  1914 

Thomas  W.  Farnsworth  1916 

Gilbert  M.  Ireland  1916 
Joaquim  De  R.  Junqueira         1916 

Raymond  H.  Page  1916 

Fred  B.  Carlisle  1917 

Herbert  C.  Kelly  1917 

Walter  I.  Stearns  1917 

Edward  L.  Anton  1918 

Frank  J.  Murphy  1918 

Conant  L.  Starr  1919 

Hobart  A.  Whitney  1919 

George  A.  Bijur  1921 

Forest  M.  Douglass,  Jr.  1921 

Milton  W.  Graff  1921 

Joseph  F.  Scanlan  1921 

Joseph  T.  Fanning  1922 

Francis  W.  Harney  1922 

Charles  E.  Martin  1922 

Edward  J.  Witt  1922 

Willard  A.  Gallotte  1924 

Richard  F.  Whitcomb  1924 

Kenneth  G.  Broman  1925 

Tzu-Hzu  Chou  1925 

Charles  E.  Crang  1925 

John  J.  Hynes  1925 


Thomas  F.  Plummer  1925 

Charles  F.  Stevens  1925 

George  C.  Chow  1927 

Yat  W.  Chow  1 927 

Ronald  E.  Jones  1927 

Maxwell  L.  Stoughton  1927 

Donald  S.  Bliss  1928 

Gordon  N.  McColley  1928 

Leo  J.  Melican  1928 

Alvar  O.  Ericson  1930 

Edward  T.  Fox,  Jr.  1930 

Francis  O.  Carlstrom  1931 

Lewis  S.  Haskins  1931 

James  McWhirter,  Jr.  1931 

Arthur  B.  Brainerd,  Jr.  1932 

Edward  F.  Donohue  1932 

Eino  O.  Leppanen  1932 

George  E.  Oman  1932 

Chester  A.  Werme  1932 

Ellis  R.  Brown  1933 

Stephen  S.  Haynes  1933 

Thomas  A.  Hyde,  Jr.  1 933 

Wright  H.  Manvel  1933 

Thomas  F.  McLoughlin  1933 

John  J.  Molloy,  Jr.  1933 

Charles  H.  Newsome  1933 

William  A.  Michalek  1934 

Raymond  G.  Desrochers  1935 

Alvaro  A.  Silva  1935 

Louis  D.  Soloway  1935 

Edward  Tavidian  1935 

Russell  H.  Wood  1935 

William  F.  Atwood,  Jr.  1936 

Thomas  J.  Healey,  Jr.  1  936 

William  Miseveth  1936 

Jacob  A.  Sacks  1936 

John  H.  Chapman  1937 

Frank  Ellsworth  1937 

Iver  T.  Rosenlund  1937 

Arthur  A.  Davis  1938 

Russell  Jennings  1938 

Thomas  E.  O'Neil  1938 

Irving  W.  Forde  1939 

Laurence  M.  Howarth  1939 

Fred  J.  Kraemer,  Jr.  1939 

William  F.  Payne  1939 

Raymond  B.  Piper  1939 

Charles  S.  Stevens  1939 

Dr.  Ronald  S.  Brand  1940 

Lennart  Brune  1940 

Robert  J.  Cannon  1940 

Jeremie  Lafrance,  Jr.  1940 

Judson  D.  Lowd  1940 

Joseph  J.  Platukis  1940 

Bernard  Polonsky  1940 

Joseph  C.  Putelis  1940 

Harry  E.  Stirling  1940 

Alfred  F.  Andersen  1941 

Burgess  P.  Brownson  1941 

Lyle  W.  Carpenter  1941 

Jerome  E.  Schread  1941 
Chamroon  Tishyanandana  1941 

Frederick  J.  Bargiel  1942 

Morris  C.  Chu  1942 

David  L.  Hartwell  1942 

Kenneth  T.  Hunt  1942 

John  M.  Townsend,  Jr.  1942 

John  J.  Tyner  1942 

William  S.  Allan,  Jr.  1943 

George  Cagen  1943 

Everett  W.  Dunlap  1943 

Reed  C.  Fulton  1943 

Herbert  W.  Hope,  Jr.  1943 

Clifford  B.  Moller  1943 

Harold  E.  O'Malley  1943 

Marshall  B.  Raybin  1943 

Dr.  George  P.  Scott  1943 

Louis  J.  Baldini  1944 


Richard  T.  Brown  1944 

Dr.  Daniel  Koval  1944 

Harold  A.  Krieger  1944 

Peter  E.  Talley  1944 

David  M.  Trotsky  1944 

Donald  M.  Campbell  1945 
Cmdr.  Kenneth  B.  Hofstra  1945 

Clifford  E.  Lanigan  1945 

Leonard  F.  Moore  1945 

James  Taylor  III  1945 

Alvi  T.  Twing,  Jr.  1945 

Richard  T.  Walsh  1945 

Bernard  L.  Beisecker,  Jr.  1946 

Irwin  G.  Benkert  1946 

Gaetano  Biuso  1946 

John  M.  Considine  1946 

Anthony  L.  Daoundakis  1946 

Wilton  A.  Ericson  1946 

Robert  N.  Gregoroff  1946 

Walter  H.  Hatch  1946 

Christopher  A.  Herbert  1946 

William  M.  Hovenesian  1946 

William  J.  Kelly  1946 

Dr.  Myer  Krulfeld  1946 

John  J.  Landers  1946 

Alan  Y.  Levine  1946 

Philip  R.  Loshin  1946 

Dr.  Karl  M.  Mayer  1946 
Howard  F.  McCormick,  Jr.        1946 

Allan  W.  McCoy  1946 

Peter  M.  McKinley  1946 

Elton  K.  Morice,  Jr.  1946 

A.  Lewis  Rogers,  Jr.  1  946 

Alvin  M.  Ross  1946 

Sidney  S.  Sperling  1946 

Edward  Stokel  1946 

Miczyslaw  J.  Waclawek  1946 

Jack  Wexler  1946 

Maurice  I.  Young  1946 

Jose  R.  Biamon  1947 

August  L.  Flotteron,  Jr.  1947 

Roland  H.  Guay  1947 

Ernest  E.  Kimball  1947 

William  Longmuir  1947 

Vaikunth  C.  Thakar  1947 

Benjamin  B.  Barker,  Jr.  1948 

David  I.  Caplan  1948 

Neil  H.  Gebhardt  1948 

Charles  A.  Heyelman  1948 

Julian  H.  Jacobs  1948 

Birger  D.  Lund,  Jr.  1948 

Paul  J.  Martin  1948 

Ronald  A.  Moltenbrey  1948 

William  R.  Olha  1948 

Shou  L.  Pan  1948 

Frederick  R.  Paul  1948 

Leonard  D.  Rood  1948 

Kenneth  E.  Whatmore  1948 

Thomas  H.  Wyllie,  Jr.  1948 

Kinsley  A.  Ball,  Jr.  1949 

John  H.  Beckwith  1949 

Russell  P.  Bradlaw  1949 

Norman  E.  Cotnoir  1949 

Edward  Foley  1949 

Elmer  R.  Griffith,  Jr.  1949 

Frederick  S.  Jenkins,  Jr.  1949 

William  A.  Julian  1949 

John  E.  McCarthy  1949 

Tsu-Yen  Mei  1949 

William  H.  B.  Parr  1949 

Harry  J.  Rogers  1949 

Vernon  H.  Russell  1949 


eers  &  Constructors,  a  subsidiary  of 
eon  Company.  He  became  associated 
he  firm  in  1 946  as  an  assistant  project 
gnical  engineer.  After  becoming  a 
t  manager,  he  was  promoted  to 
ger  of  the  Power  Department  in  1966 
amed  a  vice  president  of  the  Jackson 
Ireland  Division  in  1969.  A  registered 
jsional  engineer,  he  is  also  a  lecturer 
wer  plant  economics  and  design  on  the 
y  of  Northeastern  University's  Gradu- 
;hool  of  Engineering. 
aCOLM  A.  MORRISON  recently  re- 
j  a  silver  medal  from  Secretary  of  Com- 
>  Peter  G.  Peterson  for  his  accomplish- 
as  a  supervisory  primary  examiner 
the  Patent  Office.  He  was  cited  for  his 
onstrated  outstanding  initiative  and 
I  in  leading  his  art  unit  toward  mean- 
examination  of  applications  for 
ts  in  the  computer  area." 
)NALD  L.  NICHOLS  has  been  named 
or   for    engineering    at    the    Newport 

Laboratory  of  the  Naval  Underwater 
r.  In  his  new  position  he  supervises 
/  650  professional  engineers,  techni- 
,  and  administrative  support  personnel. 

ned  the  New  London  laboratory  as  an 
onic  engineer  in  1946.  Besides  pub- 
g  reports  dealing  with  sonar  systems 
ology  and  low  frequency  electromag- 
noise,  he  has  filed  seven  patent  appli- 
es for  underwater  sources  and  receiving 

.5. 

fjOYD  A.  WYCZALEK  presently  works  as 

chnical    advisor,    experimental    safety 

e,  General  Motors  Corp.,  Detroit,  Mich. 


49 


MOND    A.    BRANDOLI    is    operations 

ijger  at  Universal  Photo,  Schenectady, 

.  .  .  CHARLES  C.  CHASE  works  as  a 

rvisorfor  U.S.  Steel  Corp.,  Fairless  Hills, 

.  .  ROBERT  W.  COOK  serves  as  branch 

ager  at  Gould,  Inc.,  Instruments  Systems 

;ion,  Burlington,  Mass.  .  .  .  JAMES  M. 

SER  has  been  named  assistant  to  the 

rager  of  engineering  and  maintenance  at 

t-Geigy    Corp.,    Mcintosh,    Ala.    .    .    . 

.3ED  HAPGOOD,  JR.,  has  been  named 

:uct  group  manager,  lenses  and  machin- 

Ifor   the    optical    products    division    of 

►rican  Optical  Corp.  He  joined  the  firm 

949  and  was  later  named  director  of 

lity  control  and  was  appointed  lens  plant 

fager  in  1960.  .  .  .  GEORGE  K.  HOWE 

jrrently  an  associate  professor  of  co- 

iative  education  at  Northeastern  Univer- 

in  Boston. 


150 


IN  N.  JUREIDINI  is  with  the  Interna- 
al  Licensing  Department  of  General 
trie  Co.,  New  York  City.  .  .  .  HAROLD 
CHMUCKI  is  a  senior  electrical  engineer 
'arner  &  Swasey,  Worcester.  ...CHARLES 
BEAVER  serves  as  director  of  physical 
t,    Wright    State     University,     Dayton, 

d PHILIP  A.  WILD  has  been  elected 

ce  president  of  Stone  &  Webster  Engi- 


MORGAN 

CONSTRUCTION  COMPANY 


15  Belmont  Street,  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 

Serving  the  Ferrous  and  Non- Ferrous  World  Markets  since  1888  as 
Engineers  and  Manufacturers  of  Rolling  Mills,  Morgoil  Bearings, 
Wire  Drawing  Machinery  and  Furnace  Equipment 


neering  Corp.,  Boston.  He  was  also  ap- 
pointed manager  of  marketing  for  the 
company's  power  industry  group.  He  joined 
the  firm  in  1956  and  has  served  in  various 
geotechnical  and  structural  engineering 
areas  as  well  as  marketing. 


1951 


WILLIAM  T.  BAKER  is  business  manager  for 
Bondstrand  Products,  a  division  of  Ameron, 
Inc.,  Brea,  Calif.  .  .  .  H.  STUART  DODGE  is 
employed  by  the  Space  Systems  Products 
Dept.  of  General  Electric  Co.,  Valley  Forge, 
Pa.  .  .  .  LESTER  A.  SLOCUM,  JR.,  is  chief- 
architect-engineers,  liaison  branch,  for  the 
department  of  environmental  services,  gov- 
ernment of  the  District  of  Columbia. 


1952 


PHILIP  B.  CROMMELIN  has  been  named 
product  manager,  utility  precipitators,  at 
Research-Cottrell,  Inc.,  Bound  Brook,  N.J. 
In  his  newly  created  position  he  will  ad- 
minister and  promote  liaison  between 
customers  and  company  field  personnel. 
Since  joining  Research-Cottrell  in  1954  he 
has  been  service  engineer,  application  engi- 
neer, chief  products  engineer  and  manager 
of  turnkey  operations.  He  is  a  member  of  the 
Air  Pollution  Control  Association. 


*"*»«► 


Olson,  '55 


1953 


VYTO  L.  ANDRELIUNAS  has  been  ap- 
pointed chief,  operations  division,  of  the 
U.S.  Army  Engineers  in  New  England.  He  is 


responsible  for  the  operation  and  mainte- 
nance of  $300  million  worth  of  federal  flood 
control  reservoirs,  four  hurricane  protection 
barriers,  and  the  Cape  Cod  Canal.  ...  Dr. 
ROBERT  FITZGERALD,  associate  professor 
of  civil  engineering  at  WPI,  is  a  new  member 
of  the  Worcester  Public  Library  board  of 
directors.  Fitzgerald,  the  author  of  a  text- 
book entitled,  Strengths  of  Materials,  be- 
longs to  the  American  Society  of  Civil 
Engineers,  American  Society  for  Engineering 
Education,  and  the  Society  of  Plastics  Engi- 
neers. .  .  .  JOSEPH  A.  HOLMES  is  with 
G.E.'s  television  components,  Syracuse,  N.Y. 


1954 


NEIL  R.  GLEBERMAN  has  been  appointed 
manager  of  the  Oil  City,  Pa.,  plant  of  Koppers 
Organic  Materials  Division.  He  had  been 
chief  engineer  at  the  Follansbee  plant  since 
1969.  He  joined  Koppers  in  1954.  .  .  . 
JOACHIM  HERZ  is  director,  corporate 
product  and  market  planning,  North  Ameri- 
can Philips  Corp.,  New  York  City.  .  .  . 
LAURENCE  I.  SANBORN  is  with  the  Semi- 
conductor Products  Dept.,  General  Electric 
Co.,  Syracuse,  N.Y. 


1955 


ROBERT  E.  OLSON  has  been  named 
manager  of  the  fluid  dynamics  laboratory  at 
United  Aircraft  Research  Laboratories,  East 
Hartford,  Conn.  He  will  be  responsible  for  a 
variety  of  research  programs  related  to  gas 
turbine  engines,  noise  reduction  and  pollu- 
tion control.  Previously  he  was  chief  of  the 
gas  dynamics  section.  .  .  .  KENNETH  H. 
RUSSELL,  a  chemical  engineer  with  the 
ammunition  development  and  engineering 
directorate,  Picatinny  Arsenal,  Dover,  N.J., 
was  recently  presented  a  special  achieve- 
ment award  for  "exemplary  performance  of 
duty"  while  assigned  to  Radford  Army  Am- 
munition Depot.  As  a  member  of  a  "should 
cost  study  team,"  his  recommendations  for 
improved  operations  resulted  in  a  govern- 
ment saving  of  $3.5  million. 


1956 


PHILIP  P.  BEDARD  is  a  research  associate 
at  Nova  University,  Dania,  Fla.  .  .  .  CHARLES 
E.  GUNN  has  been  appointed  Mayor  of 
North  Branford,  Conn.  He  has  served  as 
deputy  mayor  since  being  elected  to  the 
council  in  1971  and  was  designated  mayor 
to  complete  the  unexpired  term  of  the  pre- 
vious mayor  until  town  elections  are  held 
this  year.  Charlie  writes  that  his  new  post 
is  part-time  and  unpaid  and  that  he  keeps 
"bread  on  the  table"  by  continuing  as  senior 
test  engineer  at  United  Illuminating  Co.,  in 
New  Haven.  .  .  .  GEORGE  P.  STROM  was 
recently  appointed  director  of  manufacturing 
of  Ortho  Diagnostics  in  Raritan,  N.J.  He  will 
be  responsible  for  biochemical  production, 
processing,  packaging,  and  process  develop- 
ment. Strom  joined  Johnson  &  Johnson  in 
Chicago  in  1967  as  superintendent  of  dis- 
tribution. Since  1970  he  has  held  his 
present  position  as  chief  engineer,  Eastern 
Surgical  Dressings  plant. 


1957 


JOHN  M.  BANDARRA,  JR.,  is  plant  man- 
ager at  Kendall  Co.,  North  Windham,  Conn. 
.  .  .  ROBERT  F.  I.  CONTE  is  with  Ladas, 
Parry,  Von  Gehr,  Goldsmith  &  Deschamps. 
.  .  .  Currently  EDWARD  M.  DENNETT  is 
sales  manager,  Oliver  Division,  Sangamo 
Electric  Co.,  Atlanta,  Ga.,  as  well  as  sales 
promotion  manager  for  Sangamo  in  all  50 
states.  During  his  fifteen  years  with  the 
company  he  has  been  assistant  regional 
manager  in  Atlanta;  sales  manager,  automo- 
tive and  industrial  division,  Springfield,  III.; 
and  district  manager  and  sales  engineer  in 
Birmingham,  Ala. 

RICHARD  P.  JOHNSON  is  with  Harveys 
of  Falmouth,  Inc.,  Falmouth,  Mass.  .  .  . 
ROBERT  V.  LEMAY,  manufacturing  man- 
ager,   works    at    Data    Interface,    Danbury, 

Conn PAUL  M.  MITCHELL,  SIM,  serves 

as  regional  marketing  manager  at  Dresser 
Industries,  Inc.  (tool  group),  in  Cincinnati, 
Ohio. 

LEON  A.  MORGAN  has  been  appointed 
to  the  post  of  general  operations  manager 
at  the  United  Illuminating  Co.,  New  Haven, 
Conn.  He  began  work  for  the  company  fol- 
lowing graduation  and  has  served  in  a 
number  of  engineering  positions.  In  1968 
he  was  named  engineering  manager.  .  .  . 
THEODORE  F.  ROE  is  now  an  associate 
electrical  engineer  at  Calspan  Corp.,  Buffalo, 
N.Y.  .  .  .  ROBERT  D.  TENT  is  division 
engineer,  Undersea  Services  Division  (div- 
ing), at  Fluor  Ocean  Services,  Inc.,  Houma, 
La. 


1958 


PERRY  E.  JOSLIN  is  currently  the  owner 
and  president  of  Joslin  Dodge,  Inc.,  Pitts- 
field,  Mass.  For  the  past  seven  years  he  was 
chief  project  engineer  with  the  National 
Aeronautics  and  Space  Administration  pro- 
gram at  Hamilton  Standard  Co.,  Windsor 
Locks,  Conn.  .  .  .  MICHAEL  P.  MULLO  is 
now  with  General  Systems,  Waltham,  Mass. 


WILLIAM  A.  RABINOVITCH  has  been 
selected  as  one  of  eighteen  students  to  join 
the  Whitney  Museum  of  American  Art 
Independent  Study  Semester  Program  in 
New  York  City.  Upon  completion  of  the 
program  he  will  receive  his  MFA  in  painting 
from  the  San  Francisco  (Cal.)  Art  Institute. 
Rabinovitch  is  slated  to  be  listed  in  the  1  973 
edition  of  Who's  Who  in  American  Art.  .  .  . 
DAVID  A.  RYAN  is  with  Martin-Marietta 
Corp.,  Orlando,  Fla. 


1959 


The  name  and  biography  of  DR.  JOSE 
D.  BRONZINO,  associate  professor  of  en 
neering  at  Trinity  College  and  director  of 
bioengineering  program  at  Rensselaer  Prj 
technic  Graduate  Center,  Hartford,  Ccri 
have  been  selected  to  appear  in  the  1!jj 
edition  of  Community  Leaders  of  Amen 
The  book  is  published  annually  to  recogn 
outstanding  persons  who  have  contribui 


Hear!  Hear! 


a  cii 


In  1 961  Ralph  Guertin  received  his  BS  in  physics  from  WPI  where  he  graduated  summa 
laude  at  the  head  of  his  class.  By  1969  he  had  completed  his  doctoral  thesis  at  Yale.  Tod 
he  can  be  found  teaching  theoretical  physics  to  graduate  students  at  Rice  University 
Houston,  Texas. 

A  nice  success  story  as  far  as  it  goes.  An  outstanding  student  has  developed  into  an  on 
standing  professor. 

But  Dr.  Guertin's  story  is  more  than  a  success.  It  is  a  miracle.  He  is  the  first  totally  de 
person  in  this  country,  and  possibly  the  world,  to  hold  a  full-time  professorship  in  a  hearii 
college. 

How  can  a  man  who  lost  his  hearing  at  the  age  of  seven  hold  such  a  demanding  position 
one  that  requires  the  verbal  give-and-take  intrinsic  in  a  classroom  situation? 

"It's  because  of  the  women  in  my  life,"  he  says.  "Whatever  success  I  have  had  is  due 
them," 

He  admits  quite  candidly  that  he  owes  his  normal  speaking  voice  to  his  mother,  Mrs.  Irei 
Nash  Guertin.  After  a  disastrous  childhood  bout  with  meningitis  and  measles  which  result' 
in  his  hearing  loss,  it  was  she  who  kept  him  talking  naturally  and  corrected  him  when  he  errs 

According  to  his  colleagues  at  Rice  University,  today  Dr.  Guertin  speaks  normally  durii 
his  lectures.  He  even  finds  time  for  spirited  question-and-answer  periods  answering  whatev 
questions  his  students  may  fire  at  him.  (An  A+  for  Mrs.  Guertin  and  her  speech  lessons!) 

Another  woman  who  helped  him  along  the  road  to  success  was  Miss  Chiyona  Kinoshi 
who  taught  him  lip-reading  at  Clarke  School  for  the  Deaf  in  Northampton,  Mass.  When  I 
entered  the  school  in  1  947  he  knew  nothing  about  lip-reading  whatsoever  and  at  first  refusi 
to  try  it,  always  insisting  that  his  hearing  would  return  some  day.  But  Miss  Kinoshita  w. 
patient,  determined,  and  compassionate.  In  the  end  she  won  and  so  did  young  Ralph  Guerti 

Now  he  reads  lips  so  proficiently  that  he  often  has  the  feeling  that  he  can  actually  he; 
And  people  with  whom  he  is  speaking  are  astonished  because  after  they  say  a  couple 
words,  he  can  comprehend  the  whole  sentence  before  they  finish. 

His  academic  excellence  and  his  unusual  ability  to  communicate  led  him  to  a  number* 
interesting  jobs  after  his  graduation  from  WPI.  For  several  summers  he  worked  as  a  solid  stff 
physicist  at  the  U.S.  Naval  Ordnance  Laboratory  in  Maryland  and  at  the  National  Bureaui 
Standards  in  Washington,  DC.  Later  he  served  as  a  research  assistant  in  the  physics  depar 
ment  at  the  Middle  East  Technical  University  at  Ankara,  Turkey,  and  as  a  research  assistB 
at  the  University  of  Nijmegen  in  The  Netherlands. 

Language  was  no  barrier.  He  learned  Turkish  and  could  lip-read  it  in  no  time.  He  diol 
have  to  learn  Dutch  because  they  spoke  English  at  the  university  where  he  was  employe® 

Dr.  Guertin  can  also  lip-read  French.  He  is  even  able  to  understand  an  Argentine  studl 
in  one  of  his  classes  who  speaks  with  a  Spanish  accent. 

Oddly,  the  toughest  accent  for  him  to  lip-read  is  British.  He  says,  "It  shows  on  their  lips 

Following  his  stint  in  Europe  and  after  receiving  his  PhD  from  Yale,  he  became  a  pc 
doctoral  fellow  at  the  Lawrence  Radiation  Laboratory  at  the  University  of  California  at  Berke 
While  there,  Prof.  Geoffrey  Chew  recommended  him  to  officials  at  Rice. 

Any  doubts  the  Rice  representatives  may  have  had  about  their  new  teaching  prosp 
promptly  disappeared  after  they  heard  him  deliver  a  lecture.  They  were,  in  a  word,  impresi 

Any  lingering  doubts  that  Dr.  Guertin  may  have  had  also  have  disappeared  since  he 
been  at  the  university.  He  is  quite  convinced  that  he  has  no  further  communication  probl 
to  surmount.  He  plans  to  make  teaching  his  career. 

Should  he  waver,  he  has  two  more  ladies  to  turn  to.  One  is  his  wife,  Nu  Nu  Mae,  whom 
met  at  Yale  while  she  was  earning  her  masler's  in  international  relations  and  teaching 
native  Burmese.  And  the  other  is  their  four-year-old  daughter  who  was  born  in  The  Neth 
lands. 

As  things  stand  now,  it  looks  as  though  Dr.  Ralph  Guertin  has  already  decided  exac 
where  he  is  going  and  how  to  get  there.  If,  indeed,  he  isn't  there  already. 


1883-1973 

90  years  of  growth  with/in 
VWorcester..and  more  coming 


& 


WOHCESTER  DROP  FORGIHG  WOEKS. 


% 


%X 


WYMAN  &  G-ORDON, 


frl+o 


Parts  of 

Machines  of 

all   kinds.   Fire 

Arms,  Machine  Tools, 

Carriage,  Agricultural 

Hardware,  Ac,  and  all  Iron  and 

Steel  Formings  received  In  large  numbers. 


%£ 


COR.  BRADLEY  STREET 

And  Uold  St.  It., 

WORCESTER, 


^ 


Mass. 


Wi 


% 


« 


Onh'rn  ill  1,-11,1,  ,1  lo  pntiiipl  I,  .  nii,l  KNtimillr.s  bUch  un  rccrlpl 

•  >i    Sn  III  |,|. 

(Company's  first  advertisement,  in  Worcester  Directory) 


Leaders  in  service  to  the  community  ...  and 
to  industry: 

Aircraft  •  Automotive  •  Diesel  Engines  •  Air- 
craft Turbine  Engines  •  Space  Vehicles  • 
Nuclear  Powerplants  ®  Ship  Construction  • 
High  Pressure  Fittings  •  Marine  Powerplants  • 
Undersea  Vessels  • 


27 


WYMAN  -  GORDON 
COMPANY 


Worcester  •  Grafton  •  Millbury 

Chicago  •  Los  Angeles  •  Bombay 

SALES  OFFICES  WORLDWIDE 


a' 


to  the  life  of  their  community,  state,  or  nation 
through  professional,  community  or  civic 
activities.  .  .  .  ANDREW  P.  CUERONI  holds 
the  position  of  president  and  treasurer  of 
Builders  Realty  Corp.  of  Massachusetts  in 
Framingham.  .  .  .  WILFRID  J.  HOUDE  is 
currently  customer  service  manager,  Hewlett 
Packard,  Cupertino,  Calif. 

THOMAS  F.  HUMPHREY  has  been  ap- 
pointed Director  of  the  Bureau  of  Trans- 
portation, Planning  and  Development  of  the 
Massachusetts  Department  of  Public  Works. 
Previously  he  helped  develop  planning  and 
budgetary  procedures  for  DOT  agencies 
when  he  was  in  the  office  of  the  Secretary 
of  the  Federal  Department  of  Transporta- 
tion. He  was  also  a  cofounder  of  a  trans- 
portation planning  consulting  firm  whose 
clients  included  federal,  state,  local,  and 
private  agencies. 

RICHARD  P.  KEATS  is  currently  em- 
ployed by  Pro  Electronics,  Inc.,  Syosset, 
N.Y.  .  .  .  RICHARD  J.  RONSKAVITZ  has 
been  named  traffic  engineer  for  the  City  of 
Hartford,  Conn.  Since  1968  he  has  served 
the  city  as  assistant  traffic  engineer.  He 
joined  the  Connecticut  State  Highway  Dept. 
in  1959.  In  1964  he  became  traffic  operations 
engineer  for  the  City  of  Hartford. 


1960 


Married:  JOHN  B.  CLARK  and  Miss 
Despina  Chatis  in  Lawrence,  Massachusetts 
in  December.  Mrs.  Clark  teaches  piano  and 
organ  to  private  students.  Mr.  Clark  is  now 
head  of  the  engineering  department  at 
Williams  and  Hussey  Machine  Corp.,  Mil- 
ford,  N.H. 

PETER  PIECUCH  recently  became  editor 
of  the  Journal  of  the  Water  Pollution  Control 
Federation,  Washington,  D.C.  Since  1970 
he  had  been  associate  editor.  Earlier  he  was 
an  assistant  editor  of  Environmental  Science 
and  Technology,  a  publication  of  the 
American  Chemical  Society. 


1961 


JOHN  M.  BUCKLEY  is  with  Buckley  & 
Company,  Wellesley  Hills,  Mass.  ...WILLIAM 
D.  HOOVER  presently  serves  as  a  project 
engineer  at  Decora,  Fort  Edward,  N.Y. 

Lt.  Cdr.  LEONARD  E.  PICKENS  has  been 
appointed  as  commanding  officer  of  the 
NOAA  ships  Rude  and  Heck  according  to  a 
recent  announcement  made  by  the  National 
Oceanic  and  Atmospheric  Administration  of 
the  U.S.  Department  of  Commerce.  The 
90-ft.  sister  ships  are  the  only  ones  of  their 
kind  in  the  nation  designed  to  obtain  in- 
formation through  wire  dragging  for  under- 
water navigational  hazards  such  as  sunken 
wrecks,  rocks,  etc.  Pickens  assumed  com- 
mand of  the  ships  on  which  he  was  previously 
executive  officer,  at  the  Atlantic  Marine 
Center,  Norfolk,  Va. 


Piecuch,  '60 


1962 


Married:  FRANCIS  L.  CORDEN  to  Miss 
Priscilla  J.  Jenkins  on  December  2,  1972  in 
Bloomfield,  New  Jersey.  The  bride  is  a 
graduate  of  Vassar  College.  The  bridegroom 
is  a  member  of  the  Norwich  (Conn.)  Power 
Squadron  and  is  president  of  Destinations 
Unlimited,  Inc.,  of  Connecticut. 

RICHARD  J.  Di  BUONO  presently  works 
as  chief,  water  quality  section,  New  England 
Division,  Corps  of  Engineers,  Waltham, 
Mass.  .  . .  LEWIS  W.  HUNTOON  is  a  chemist 
at  Benilite  Corp.  of  America,  Corpus  Christi, 
Texas.  .  .  .  NELSON  E.  PARMELEE,  JR.,  is 
employed  by  IBM  Corp.,  in  La  Grangeville, 
N.Y.  .  .  .  JAMES  N.  PEISTRUP  is  a  metal- 
lurgist at  Cessna  Aircraft  Co.,  Hutchinson, 
Kan.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  S.  PROPERZIO  works 
with  the  U.S.  Public  Health  Service,  depart- 
ment of  environmental  engineering,  at  the 
University  of  Florida,  Gainesville. 

DR.  KENNETH  ROETTGER,  who  usually 
teaches  chemistry  at  Ottumwa  Heights 
College  in  Iowa,  recently  tried  his  hand  at 
teaching  a  witchcraft  course.  He  says  that 
"Basically,  white  witchcraft  is  nothing  more 
than  the  teaching  of  positive  thinking." 


1963 


GEORGE  D.  ELDRIDGE,  who  has  been 
senior  transmission  engineer  at  United 
Illuminating,  New  Haven,  Conn.,  is  now 
chief  electrical  engineer.  .  .  .  Prof.  JOSEPH 
R.  MANCUSO,  head  of  the  management 
engineering  department  at  WPI,  was  recently 
appointed  to  a  three-year  term  as  a  director 
of  the  Worcester  Cooperation  Council,  Inc. 
.  .  .  HOWARD  K.  McDEVITT  is  now  man- 
ager-optical engineering  at  Acuity  Systems, 
McLean,  Va.  .  .  .  Currently  JOHN  P.  PISI- 
NISKI,  JR.,  works  as  manufacturing  manager 
at  Union  Camp  Corp.,  Richmond,  Va.  .  .  . 
ALAN  R.  ROBERTS  is  an  editor  at  Sperry 
Rand  Research  Center,  Sudbury,  Mass. 


1964 


ANTHONY  CROCE  is  presently  with  the 
mechanical  engineering  technical  support 
activity  at  the  U.S.  Army  Electronics  Com- 
mand, Ft.  Monmouth,  N.J.  .  .  .  Frankel 
Enterprises,  Philadelphia,  employs  DANIEL 
F.  GORMAN.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  J.  HEALY  has 
employment  with  the  Hermetic  Motor 
Products  Dept.  of  General  Electric  Co.  in 
Holland,  Mich.  .  .  .  EUGENE  S.  KILLIAN  has 
joined  Crawford  &  Russell,  Inc.,  Stamford, 
Conn.  .  .  .  BRUCE  W.  LARSEN  works  as 
staff  engineer-long  range  planning.  New 
England  Telephone  &  Telegraph  Co.,  Provi- 
dence, R.I. 


DAVID  E.  MONKS  has  been  na 
general  supervisor,  production  machii 
in  the  Kodak  Apparatus  Division  of  Eas| 
Kodak  Company,  Rochester,  N.Y.  He  J 
Kodak  in  1 964.  At  one  time  he  was  a  pri 
manufacturing  engineer  coordinating  I 
with  the  Kodak  pocket  Instamatic  cam|i 
Last  August  he  became  the  technical  as' 
ant  to  the  superintendent  of  consumer  pi 
ucts  assembly.  .  .  .  STEVEN  B.  SACCI 
with  MIT's  Lincoln  Laboratory.  .  .  .  Curre 
WILBUR  W.  WATERS,  JR.,  is  an  empk 
of  General  Electric  Co.,  Syracuse,  N.Y.  | 


1965 


RICHARD  J.  AIMONE  is  a  project  engii 
with  the  Air  Correction  Division  of  Unive 
Oil  Products,  Darien,  Conn.  .  .  .  GREGC 
F.  BERRY  is  with  G.E.'s  Machinery  AB 

ratus,  Schenectady,  N.Y AYNUR  CA 

is  a  self-employed  civil  engineer  (exd 
import)  in  Istanbul,  Turkey.  .  .  .  WALTER 
CHANG  works  for  General  Electric  Co., 9 
Mass.  .  .  .  LEONARD  G.  FELDMAN  is  v 
Precision  Control  Products  Corp.,  Walth 
Mass.    .    .    .    JAMES    L.    HAMMETT, 
serves    as    project    engineer   for    Esso 
search  &  Engineering,  Florham  Park,  N.j 
CHARLES  F.  HUNNICUTT  now  world 
supervisor-advanced   switching  systems 
Bell  Telephone   Labs.,   Naperville,  III.  1 
KENNETH    E.  JOHNSON   is  with    Cullii 
Engineering   Co.,   Inc.,  Auburn,   Mass.  . 
RICHARD  G.  MOORE  teaches  at  Tim! 
lane  Regional  High  School,  Plaistow,  h 
.  .  .  RICHARD  K.  SEAVER  is  a  senior  er 
neer  at  Hamilton  Standard  Division,  U 
Windsor  Locks,  Conn.  .  .  .  MADHUKAF 
VORA  has  been  promoted  to  senior  engir 
atthe  International  Business  Machines  Cc 
System     Products     Division     Facility,    i 
Fishkill,  N.Y.  In  1 962  he  began  work  at  ll 
as  a  junior  engineer  working  on  advan> 
devices.  .  .  .  BRUCE  C.  YUNG  is  a  gradu 
student    at    the    University    of    Virginia 
Charlottesville. 


1966 


Capt.  ROLAND  C.  BOUCHARD,  develc 
ment  engineer,  is  stationed  at  Hill  fit 
Utah.  Currently  he  is  working  for  his  Mi 
electric  power  engineering  at  RPI.  . 
ROBERT  COATES  is  presently  working! 
the  Torrington  (Conn.)  Company  in 
knitting  machine  needle  department.  Hi 
supervisor  of  two  production  departme 
Last  summer  he  received  his  MS  in  manffl 
ment  science  from  Rensselaer  PolytecN 
Institute  at  the  Hartford  Graduate  Cental 
PHILIP  J.  HOPKINSON  has  been  I 
pointed  manager  of  advanced  developm 
engineering  at  G.E.'s  distribution  tra 
former  department  with  headquarters 
Hickory,  N.C.  He  began  work  with  the  cc 
pany  in  1966.  .  .  .  CHESTER  J.  PATCH 
now  works  as  a  senior  field  engineer 
Bechtel  Corp.,  San  Francisco,  Calif.  . 
MICHAEL  F  SALVINI  is  a  wire  mill  sup 
intendent  for  Interspace  Corp.,  in  Sol 
Ohio.  .  .  .  Currently  ROBERT  A.  SINUC 
employed  as  a  project  engineer  in  the  plas 
department  at  General  Electric,  Selkirk,  t 


Tjineering  .  .  .  . 
la  world  in  need 


zing    becomes    more    competitive  .  .  .  more    compact  .  .  .  and 

complex,  the  world  looks  with  increasing  frequency  to  science 
i  ngineering  for  creative  solutions  to  its  wants  and  to  its  needs. 
dit  the  Heald  Machine  Division  of  Cincinnati  Milacron,  creative 
|'ch  and  development  engineers  thrive  on  the  daily  challenge  to 

Je  the  metalworking  industry  with  more  productive,  more  effi- 

and  more  reliable  machinetools. 


r  past,  Heald  has  traditionally 
Seed  machines  which  have  in 
H  cases  surpassed  industry's 
JL  but  the  demands  are  be- 
Ttig  greater  as  the  challenge 
Tliues.  So  Heald  engineers  con- 
Jto  explore  new  techniques 
i  o  design  modern  machine 
tl.-i  that  reflect  fresh  ideas  and 
■ave  thinking. 


siesults  of  this  kind  of  engi- 
Ing  can  be  seen  in  the  Heald 
>c,'icts  of  today.  Numerically 
njolled  Acracenters  and  Bore- 
is    that    literally    "think    for 


themselves"  while  producing  bet- 
ter quality  parts  in  far  less  time. 
Heald  Controlled  Force  internal 
grinders  prove  themselves  as  lead- 
ers by  consistently  attaining  new 
levels  of  productivity  and  quality. 

Heald's  newest  development,  a 
rotary  electro-chemical  machining 
process,  offers  industry  a  practical 
way  to  perform  precision  machin- 
ing operations  on  "difficult  to  ma- 
chine" conductive  materials  such 
as  high  strength,  high  temperature 
alloys.  Using  electro-chemical  ma- 
chining, stock  removal   rates  are 


unaffected  by  material  hardness  so 
production  rates  are  substantially 
increased. 

The  continuation  of  this  type  of 
creative  thinking  and  fresh  ideas 
will  be  spurred  on  by  the  chal- 
lenge of  the  1970's  and  the  need 
to  meet  the  ever-changing  require- 
ments of  our  shrinking  world. 

<^Y?  CINCINNATI 
i^Kh  MILACRON 

Cincinnati  Milacron-Heald  Corp. 
Worcester,  Mass.  01606 


Jli'ANT  T.  THAKKER  is  design  engineer 
I..  Comstock  Co.,  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  .  .  . 
.  OSEPH  E.  WHALEN  is  a  member  of 
Ibhnical  staff  at  Computer  Sciences 
I  Silver  Spring,  Md.  He  received  his 
Jin  physics  from  the  University  of 
ri(  last  year. 


K7 


md:  DONALD  G.  LUTZ  and  Miss  Susan 
fwrdock  of  West  Springfield,  Mass.  on 
:nber  30,  1972.  Mrs.  Lutz  is  a  graduate 
\Astfield  Teachers  College.  Mr.  Lutz  is 
[Jj/ed  by  Monsanto  Chemical  Corp., 
infield. 

■ORGE  E.  C  BATTEN,  JR.,  presently 
m  as  director  of  Bi  State  Community 
all  Project,  Hanover,  N.H.  .  .  .  EDWARD 
I^RPELLA,  after  a  year's  study  at 
■  Institute  of  Technology,  Chicago, 
;.  sturned  to  Tiverton  (R.I.)  Junior- 
I  High  School  as  an  instructor  in 
tlrnatics.  .  .  .  Ramapo  College,  Mahwah, 
llsmploys  JOEL  B.  KAMERON  as  an 
Bint  professor.  .  .  .  ALAN  E.  LARSON  is 
jtor  of  computer  services  at  Clark  Uni- 
I,  Worcester.  .  .  .  ROBERT  J.  LOCK- 
ED is  now  a  system  engineer  at  Ray- 
iCo.,  Fremont,  Calif.  .  .  .  EDUARDO  A. 
:I)EZ  holds  the  post  of  vice  president 
Measurer  of  Contreras  &  Mendez  Con- 
jlon  Corp.,  Ponce,  Puerto  Rico.  .  .  . 
T?}  R.  PICARD  serves  as  assistant  area 
eer  for  the  Federal  Highway  Adminis- 
i,    Columbia,   S.C    .    .    .   WILLIAM    F. 


PRATT  has  employment  with  New  England 
Telephone,  Warwick,  R.I.  .  .  .  JOHN  SOUL- 
LIERE  is  presently  with  the  Boston  office  of 
the  Foxboro  Company.  .  .  .  ALAN  H.  SUY- 
DAM  is  product  design  engineer,  Product 
Development  Group,  Ford  Motor  Company, 
Dearborn,  Michigan. 


1968 


ALBERT  J.  ATTERMEYER,  naval  architect, 
works  at  Boston  Naval  Shipyard,  Boston. 
.  .  .  MICHAEL  J.  BABIN  has  accepted  the 
position  of  project  engineer  with  Chemelex, 
Redwood  City,  Calif.  The  company  deals 
with  electrical  heat  tracing  systems  and 
water  bed  heaters.  .  .  .  ROBERT  G.  BALMER 
is  at  the  Purdue  University  graduate  school. 
West  Lafayette,  Indiana.  .  .  .  EDWARD  F. 
CANNON,  JR.,  has  been  named  assistant 
director  of  athletics  at  Worcester  Academy. 
He  is  also  a  member  of  the  school's  Science 
Department.  .  .  .  CARL  G.  R.  CARLSON, 
JR.,  has  received  his  PhD  in  mathematics 
from  Stanford  University  in  California.  .  .  . 
GREGORY  C  COX  is  a  chemical  engineer 
for  the  U.S.  Navy  at  Naval  Ordnance  Station, 
Indian  Head,  Md.  .  .  .  DANIEL  C.  CREAMER 
works  for  the  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft 
Division  of  United  Aircraft  Corp.,  East 
Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Esso  Research  & 
Engineering  Co.,  Florham  Park,  N.J. .employs 
JOHN  D.  CUNIC  as  a  project  engineer. 

STEVEN  C.  HALSTADT,  who  is  a  second- 
year  student  at  Amos  Tuck  School  of  Busi- 
ness Administration  at  Dartmouth  College, 


has  been  elected  an  Edward  Tuck  Scholar. 
The  award  is  the  highest  academic  recogni- 
tion granted  by  the  school  prior  to  gradua- 
tion. .  .  .  THEODOR  A.  HEIDT  is  an  ensign 
with  the  Civil  Engineer  Corps  (U.S.  Naval 
Mobile  Construction)  out  of  San  Francisco, 

Calif U.S.  Army  Capt.  and  Mrs.  JOHN  R. 

HILYARD,  who  have  been  living  in  Panama 
for  over  a  year,  are  the  parents  of  two 
children,  John  K.,  2,  and  Chrisanne,  4 
months.  John's  twin  brother,  JOSEPH  F. 
HILYARD,  is  assistant  research  engineer  for 
highway  safety  at  the  University  of  Michigan. 
GARY  B.  LARSON  works  for  General 
Electric  Co.,  Utica,  N.Y.  .  .  .  EUGENE  L 
MURPHY  is  a  planning  assistant  at  the 
Massachusetts  Science  of  Technology  Foun- 
dation, Wakefield,  Mass.  .  .  .  THOMAS  J. 
PERARO,  systems  analyst,  currently  works 
for  Aetna  Life  &  Casualty,  Hartford,  Conn. 
.  .  .  CHARLES  A.  RINALDI  is  with  Northeast 
Utilities  Service  Co.,  Berlin,  Conn.  .  .  .  LEO 
T.  SPRECHER  serves  as  a  computer  research 
analyst  at  GTE  Labs,  Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  . 
JOHN  R.  TRUDEAU  is  with  General 
Electric  Co.,  R&D,  Schenectady,  N.Y. 


29 


1969 


Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  PAUL  S.  WOLF, 
their  first  child,  Howard  Philip,  on  November 
13,1972. 

VESA  I.  AUNIO  works  at  General  Electric 
Co.,  Fitchburg,  Mass.  .  .  .  ANTHONY  J. 
BAGLINI  is  with  Turn-of-the-Century  An- 
tiques, Cambridge,  Mass.  .  .  .  JEFFREY  C. 


JACK  H.  McCABE,  '68  and  RONALD  J.  GORDON.  '67  recently  joined  forces  and  came  up 
with  some  leading  edge  work  that  has  led  to  the  implementation  of  a  computer  package, 
Mini-Plan,  that  is  now  being  sold  by  IBM  to  businesses  throughout  the  country. 

The  work  was  performed  at  Hammond  Plastics,  Inc.,  Worcester,  where  McCabe  is  director 
of  management  information  systems. 

Their  accomplishment  is  considered  significant  because  it  is  the  first  time  that  a  small 
company  with  a  small  computer  has  been  able  to  perform  the  same  type  of  financial  analysis 
previously  attempted  only  by  large  companies  with  large  computers.  In  fact,  practical  planning 
models  at  Hammond  can  now  be  implemented  on  a  System/3  computer  as  well  as  on  a  more 
recently  initiated  disc-based  version. 

At  first  it  wasn't  known  if  such  a  plan  was  feasible.  But  when  Hammond  decided  to  estab- 
lish a  corporate  objective  of  increasing  revenues  by  20  percent  across  the  board  in  1971,  it 
looked  to  its  System/3  as  a  possible  tool  to  reduce  the  repetitive  manual  calculations  involved. 

Gordon,  who  is  a  systems  engineer  for  IBM,  developed  the  conceptual  model  for  Hammond 
Plastics'  income  projections. 

"We  proved  this  on  a  System/360  model  50,"  says  McCabe.  "And  then  we  developed 
simplified,  open-ended  routines  to  express  the  profit  and  loss  parameters  in  the  English-like 
language  of  System/3.  Ultimately  we  were  able  to  program  balance  and  cash  flow  projections 
directly  in  the  RPG  II  language  without  any  need  for  conversion." 

Now  Hammond  has  converted  to  a  disc  system  and  implemented  Mini- Plan  which  offers 
a  simple  method  for  organizing  planning  data,  for  establishing  computational  logic  to  apply 
to  the  data,  and  for  generating  reports. 

According  to  McCabe  Mini-Plan  makes  it  easier  to  make  inquiries  and  extends  the  range 
of  "what-if"  questions  the  company  can  pose  to  the  system.  One  such  "what-if"  question 
resulted  in  a  $5,000  savings  on  a  resins  order  that  Hammond  made. 

The  accuracy  of  the  company's  new  financial  models  runs  to  within  3  to  5  percent  of  their 
projections.  "This  is  accurate  enough  to  be  extremely  useful,"  McCabe  concludes. 

Plastics  World  and  dp/Solutions  recently  featured  articles  highlighting  the  work  done  by 
McCabe  and  Gordon. 


1971 


I 


Married:  l-CHIEH  EDGAR  WANG  to 
Da-Ching  Patricia  Ma  on  January 
Worcester.  The  bride  is  a  candidate  \ 
master's  degree  in  computer  sciend 
WPI,  where  her  husband  is  a  doc 
candidate. 

MARK  A.  AGLIO  now  serves  as  aril 
sistant  statistician  for  the  Federal  Conci 
tion    and    Mediation    Service,   Washing 
D.C.  .  .  .  GEORGE  E.  BLOCK,  JR.,  I 
for  New  Haven  (Conn.)  Water  Co. . . .  J( 
W.    CAPITAO    is    with    G.E.'s    Mecharj 
Drive  Turbine    Products,    Fitchburg,   IV 
.   .   .   JOHN    G.   CLIFT  works  for   Bent;! 
North  Falmouth,  Mass.  .  .  .  CORNELIU 
COLLINS  has  employment  with  New  l|i 
land    Power  Service   Company,  Worce* 
.  .  .  STEPHEN   B.  DOUGLAS  is  prese 
located  in  Venezuela,  South  America.  I 
WILLIAM    N.    IULIANO    is    with    Gerl 
Electric  Co.,  Fitchburg,  Mass.  .  .  .  ROBj 
H.    MANDELL    is    employed    by    Dae 
Hudson,  Mass.  .  .  .  PAUL  B.  POPINCH. 
has  a   position   with   General    Electric 

Wellesley,  Mass JOHN  R.  SHOTLIF 

a  graduate  assistant  at  WPI.  .  .  .  STEVEI 
WATSON  works  for  New  England  T 
phone,  Springfield,  Mass.  .  .  .  ELDEf 
YORK  is  an  electrical  field  engineer  with 
Philadelphia  Electric  Co. 


\ 


30 


BERNARD  serves  as  assistant  physicist  at 

Calspan  Corp.,  Whippany,  N.J HEMEN- 

DRA  R.  BHATT  is  employed  by  United 
Engineers,  Boston,  Mass.  .  .  .  ALAN  C. 
CHAMBERLAIN  is  with  GTE  Sylvania  Elec- 
tronic System,  Needham  Heights,  Mass.  .  .  . 
ROGER  J.  DASHNER  is  employed  by  Boston 
Edison  Co.  .  .  .  Currently  DAVID  W.  EATON 
is  a  programmer  on-site  in  Annaba,  Algeria 
for  General  Electric  Co.  .  .  .  ALFRED  FREE- 
BERG  works  for  General  Electric  Co.,  Pitts- 
field,  Mass.  .  .  .  PETER  T.  GROSCH  is  a 
customer  service  representative  for  Exxon 
Company  and  is  located  in  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 
. . .  GLENN  E.  HARKNESS  is  a  transportation 
planner  for  Alan  M.  Voorhees  &  Assoc,  Inc., 
Boston.  .  .  .  RICHARD  P.  ROMEO  is  section 
chief  at  Western  Electric,  North  Andover, 
Mass.  .  .  .  ROBERT  TEMPLIN  is  now  a 
claims  attorney  with  the  Travelers  Insurance 
Co.,  Hartford,  Conn. . . .  JAMES  R.  WALKER, 
JR.,  presently  has  employment  with  General 
Electric  Co.,  Wellesley,  Mass. 


1970 


FRANCIS  L.  BELISLE,  JR.,  has  been  pro- 
moted to  the  rank  of  captain  in  the  U.S.  Air 
Force.  He  is  assigned  to  the  armament 
development  and  test  center  at  Elgin  AFB, 
Fla.,  as  the  center  mathematical  computer 
programmer.  .  .  .  JOHN  R.  BOYD  is  a  bio- 
medical engineer  at  St.  Vincent  Hospital, 
Worcester,  Mass. . . .  WILLIAM  S.  COBLENZ 
is  with  General  Electric  Co.,  Ceramics 
Branch,  Metallurgy  and  Ceramics  Labora- 
tory, Schenectady,  N.Y.  .  .  .  DONALD  A. 
COLANGELO  of  Harland  Bartholomew  & 
Assoc,  is  located  in  Memphis,  Tenn.  .  .  . 
ROBERT  C.  COURNOYER  teaches  at 
Bishop  Guertin  High  School.  Nashua,  N.H. 


...DOUGLAS  J.  DAYTON  is  with  General 
Electric,  Pittsfield,  Mass. . . .  PAUL  F.  DRES- 
SER was  recently  promoted  to  Navy  lieu- 
tenant (j.g.)  while  serving  with  Attack 
Squadron  125  at  the  Naval  Air  Station, 
Lemoore,  Calif. ...  JOHN  N.  DUCIMO  is 
a  sales  representative  with  U.S.  Steel  Corp., 
Electrical  Cable  Division,  Worcester. 

JOHN  "JACK"  GALE,  assistant  golf  pro- 
fessional at  Green  Hill  Golf  Club,  Worcester, 
recently  led  his  team  to  victory  in  a  pro- 
member  tournament  at  the  Port  Malabar 
Country  Club,  Melbourne,  Fla.  The  team 
finished  with  a  14-under  par  57.  .  .  .  JAMES 
J.  LAMBERT  is  with  General  Electric's 
Mechanical  Drive  Turbine  Products,  Fitch- 
burg, Mass.  .  .  .  PAUL  R.  LaPLANTE  serves 
as  a  research  physicist  at  the  U.S.  Army 
Electronics  Command,  Ft.  Monmouth,  N.J. 
.  .  .  KENNETH  H.  MAYMON  works  for 
General  Electric  Co.,  in  Fitchburg,  Mass.  .  .  . 
MICHAEL  T.  MOYLAN  is  an  engineering 
representative  at  Aetna  Life  and  Casualty, 
Boston.  .  .  .  BRADFORD  F.  MYRICK  serves 
with  the  U.S.  Army  in  Germany. 

CHARLES  R.  PICKETT,  JR.,  is  an  engi- 
neer at  Nuclear  Power  School,  General  Elec- 
tric Co.,  Knolls  Atomic  Power  Laboratory, 
Schenectady,  N.Y.  .  .  .  RICHARD  H. 
STEEVES,  JR.,  works  as  plant  supervisor  for 
Dewey  and  Almy  Chemical  Division  of  W.R. 
Grace  &  Co.,  Woodbury,  N.J.  .  .  .  ROBERT 
T.  STULA  has  received  his  MS  in  chemical 
engineering  from  Penn.  State  University.  .  .  . 
GARDNER  D.  TARBELL  works  for  the 
Connecticut  Department  of  Transportation  in 

Hartford MICHAEL  D.  VARDEMAN  is  a 

graduate  student  at  Colorado  State  Univer- 
sity, Fort  Collins FRANCIS  A.  VERNILE. 

who  received  his  MS  degree  in  structural 
engineering  from  the  University  of  Connec- 
ticut last  year,  is  now  employed  by  the 
structural  engineering  firm  of  Fraioli- 
Blum-Yesselman  of  New  England,  Hartford, 
Conn, 


1972 


Married:  LEONARD  C.  ANDREOZZI  to 
Judith  Ann  Boyle  in  West  Barring 
Rhode  Island,  on  December  30,  1972. 
bride  is  a  graduate  of  Clark  University, 
bridegroom  is  a  doctoral  candidate 
chemical-physics  at  West  Virginia  Uni 
sity.  .  .  .  SAMUEL  T.  DAVIS  and  Miss  I 

B.  Alexander  on  November  25,  1973" 
Maynard, Massachusetts.  JOSEPH  SZL0: 
was  best  man.  WILLIAM  SINGLETON, 
and  MARK  St.  PIERRE,  '71,  and  ED  SH 
MAN,  '71,  were  ushers.  Mrs.  Davis  atten 
Becker  Junior  College.  Her  husband  is  i 
ployed  at  General  Electric  Co.,  Erie,  Pa. 
DANIEL  J.  HARRINGTON  III  to  Miss  L 

C.  Wentzell  in  Jefferson,  Massachusetts 
November  10,  1972.  The  bride  is  emplo 
by  Warner  &  Swasey  Co.  Mr.  Harringto 
a  salesman  for  Sunnyside  Motor  I 
Holden. 

JAMES  G.  BROOKS,  JR.,  is  a  nuc 
steam  supply  system  engineer  at  Comj 
tion  Engineering,  Windsor,  Conn.  .  .  .  JAi 
A.  BRUCKNER  is  assistant  professol 
mathematics  at  Atlantic  Union  Colli 
South  Lancaster,  Mass.  .  .  .  JOHll 
BURKE  is  employed  by  the  City  of  Wore  J 
.  .  .  MARK  A.  FRITZ  teaches  mathematil 

Berlin  (N.H.)  Junior  High  School id 

P.  GALLIEN  is  employed  at  GTE  Sylv 
Danvers.  Mass.  .  .  .  Lt.  STEVEN  H.  LUT 
a  platoon  leader  with  the  68th  Engineer 
Ft.  Bliss,  Texas. .  .  .  DAVID  A.  MEYER  s( 
as  assistant  manager,  production  contr< 
American  Optical,  Southbridge,  Mass. 
ANIL  N  MODI  works  as  an  assistant  b 
in  the  purchasing  department  for  the  Ci 
Worcester.  .  ROBERT  F.  WEIR  is  a  ! 
engineer  for  General  Electric  Co.,  Fitcha 
Mass. 


BEFORE  YOU  BUY 
IONEER,  KLH, 
IARANTZ,  FISHER... 

TO  THIS. 

circuitry.  Plenty  of  power  (50  watts 
RMS  per  channel  into  8  ohms  with 
both  channels  driven  simultaneously 
at  1  kHz  for  Model  CR2743A).  And 

plenty  of  controls  for  all  functions. 
Our  changers  are  the  best  there 
are,  because  they're  made  by  the 
bestthereare— Dual,  Garrard  &  BSR 
McDonald.Andthey'remadewithall 
the  right  features— viscous-damped 
cue-pause  control,  calibrated  anti- 
skate  control,  magnetic  cartridges, 
and  diamond  styli. 

If  this  sounds  like  the  kind  of  audio 
equipment  you're  lookingfor,  go 
see  your  local  Sylvania  dealer. 

And  listen  to  the  Sylvania  audio 
component  systems.  Depending 
upon  the  features  you  want,  prices 
start  as  low  as 
$279.50**. 

Which  just  goes  to 
prove,  it  pays  to  listen. 


We  don't  feel  you  have  to  pay  a  lot 

get  the  high  quality  audio  sound 

d  features  you  want. 

Just  listen  to  us. 

You'll  be  surprised  at  how  good 

e  Sylvania  audio  component 

istem*  pictured  below  sounds. 

.iOurspeakers  have  a  lottodo  with 

tThey're  the  air-suspension  type 

:|at  deliver  solid,  natural  bass 

Minds.  Each  of  those  cabinets 

:  ntains  a  12"  bass  woofer,  a  VA" 

i)me  mid-range, and  a  T'dome 

leeter.  And  their  fidelity  is 

Imarkable.  Even  a  leading  stereo 

lagazine  agrees.  They've 

*ven  our  speakers  rave  reviews. 

[When  it  comes  to  features,  we 

:(,el  that  our  receivers 

";atch  up  with  th 

ppular  models  i 

:ieir  price  categ 

blid-state.  FET 

[isramic  filters. 

Lining  meter.  F 

Inction  jack  pa 

Built-in  four-cha 

fish-level  matrixi 


■ania  Entertainment 
ducts  Group,  Batavia,  N.Y 


above  includes  receiver  CR2743A, 
T2705W,  and  speakers  AS125A. 
;ested  list  price  $659.50. 
ested  list  price. 


f^TTa  SVLVANIA 


Feedback 
abdeeJ 


kcabdeeF 
Feedback 


32 


Covers 

Congratulations  on  your  December  1972 
issue.  When  I  received  it,  I  set  it  aside 
thinking  it  was  an  international  magazine  to 
which  I  subscribe,  and  which  I  usually  take 
along  on  business  trips  to  read  more  thor- 
oughly. Imagine  my  surprise  to  open  it  on 
the  Metroliner  to  Washington  and  learn  the 
significance  of  the  flags  and  our  exchange 
students  from  City  University. 

I  read  every  word  of  the  students'  com- 
ments, because  I  love  London,  and  we  have 
entertained  British  friends  who  had  never 
been  in  America  and  they  also  had  some 
weird  ideas  about  our  country. 

I  also  enjoy  your  "Feedback"  section. 
Good  old  Tech  is  certainly  becoming  a 
leader  in  engineering  education. 

Arthur  C.  Manning,  '27 
Upper  Montclair,  N.J. 


The  Brother  Machine 

As  the  mother  of  a  freshman  at  WPI 
very  pleased  to  receive  the  WPI  Jourm 
read  with  tremendous  interest  your  an 
about  "Bill  and  the  Brother  Machine, 
was  particularly  interested  as  I  work  pi 
time  for  the  Beverly  Public  School  Depi 
ment  in  one  of  the  grammar  schools  i 
know  of  young  boys  who  could  use 
help  of  a  "Big  Brother." 

Yesterday,  when  our  adjustment  counsi 
came  to  visit  the  "problem"  children  in 
school  I  showed  him  the  article  and 
shared  my  interest  in  the  program,  as| 
have  four  colleges  in  the  immediate  ai 
He  asked  me  if  it  would  be  possible 
obtain  a  copy  of  this  article  for  him,  i 
this  is  the  purpose  of  my  writing  to  you. 

Louise  E.  Menesaie 
Beverly,  Mass. 


REUNION  197) 


SPECIAL  REUNION  CLASSES 
1018       1021       1028       1011 
1018       1041       1048       1051 
1058       1061       1068 


When  the  pack  comes 

down  the  chute  at  Indy 

we'll  be  there  in  spirit. 

The  Norton  Spirit. 


That's  the  name  we've  chosen 
for  the  championship  race  car  we'll 
be  campaigning  on  some  of  the 
world's  toughest  testing  grounds. . . 
a  lean,  tough  rolling  projectile 
crammed  to  the  throttle  with  850 
horses  of  double  overhead  cam 
turbo-super-charged  power! 

Sponsored  by  various  divisions 
of  Norton  Company  whose  products 
are  closely  linked  to  the  manufac- 
ture and  fabrication  of  most  auto- 
motive parts,  this  sleek  racing 


Norton  grinding  wheels  are 

depended  on  for  precision 

grinding  and  finishing  of  critical 

engine  components,  transmission 

parts,  drive  shafts,  steering  gear 

and  front  wheel  suspension  parts. 

Norton  coated  abrasive  belts, 
sheets  and  discs  play  an 
important  part  in  grinding  brake 
shoes,  crankshaft  lapping  and  in 
the  preparation  and  finishing  of 
all  types  of  metal  and  fiberglass 
automotive  panels. 

Because  they  grip  curved  and 
irregular  surfaces  tightly  and 
strip  off  quickly  and  cleanly, 
Norton  pressure  sensitive  mask- 
ing tapes  are  used  extensively 
in  the  preparation  and  final 
painting  of  automotive  bodies. 


machine  will  hittheU.S.A.C.  cham- 
pionship trail  from  Indianapolis  to 
Ontario,  from  the  Pocono  500  to 
the  Michigan  200. 

Our  entry  in  this  internationally 
renowned  sports  event  underscores 
the  important  role  Norton  products 
play  in  the  automotive  industry.  It 
also  reflects  the  combined  talents, 
skills  and  competitive  spirit  of 
Norton's  1 8,000  employees.  It  is  this 
same  spirit  of  endeavor  and  a 
genuine  desire  to  excel  that  has 


made  Norton  the  world's  largest 
and  best  known  manufacturer  of 
abrasives  and  a  prime  supplier  of 
industrial  ceramics,  pressure- 
sensitive  tapes  and  plastics  and 
synthetics. 

Keep  your  eye  on  the  new 
Norton  Spirit. . .  an  exciting  symbol 
of  a  company  and  people  that  are 
on  the  move!  Norton  Company; 
World  Headquarters,  Worcester, 
Massachusetts  01 606. 


Norton  industrial  ceramics, 
including  refractory  cements, 
are  widely  used  to  line  melting 
furnaces  in  which  automotive 
engine  blocks  and  other 
components  are  cast. 

Norton  abrasive  materials  are 
selected  for  their  long  life  and 
increased  productivity  on  a 
variety  of  automotive  produc- 
tion applications  including  the 
deburring  and  finishing  of  gears, 
carburetor  parts,  connecting 
rods,  ball  joints,  butterfly 
valves  and  thermostats. 

Norton  TYGON®  tubing  is 
ideal  for  low  pressure  fuel, 
vent  and  refueling  lines  where 
high  visibility  is  required. 


NORTON 


Nobody  has  a  better  track  record. 


