HJorccBtcrgoliitechnic  BnBtitute 
6eorgc  £.  6ordon  ILibrarg 


fia"""  •'  "  "-^"" ' 


Summer  1981 


lX>jAfcfc,TQj\yHOMfTHtESE.  RHESE>TS^  SHAfcfc.GO^KE;;. 


tVtUB,  THERE  HAS   BEEN   PRESENTED   TO  THE 
(Jommissioner  of  Paf emfs  ana  TraaemarKs 

A  PETITION  PRAYING  FOR  THE  GRANT  OF  LETTERS  PATENT  FOR  AN  ALLEGED 
NEW  AND  USEFUL  INVENTION  THE  TITLE  AND  DESCRIPTION  OF  WHICH  ARE  CON- 
TAINED IN  THE  SPECIFICATIONS  OF  WHICH  A  COPY  IS  HEREUNTO  ANNEXED  AND 
MADE  A  PART  HEREOF,  AND  THE  VARIOUS  REQUIREMENTS  OF  LaW  IN  SUCH  CASES 
MADE  AND  PROVIDED  HAVE  BEEN  COMPLIED  WITH,  AND  THE  TITLE  THERETO  IS, 
FROM  THE  RECORDS  OF  THE  PATENT  AND  TRADEMARK  OFFICE  IN  THE 
ClaIMANT(s)  INDICATED  IN  THE  SAID  COPY,  AND  WhEREAS,  UPON  DUE  EXAMI- 
NATION MADE,  THE  SAID  ClaIMANT(s)  IS  (ARE)  ADJUDGED  TO  BE  ENTITLED  TO 
A  PATENT  UNDER  THE  LaW. 

Now,  THEREFORE,  THESE  Lefters  Pafenf   ARE  TO  GRANT  UNTO  THE  SAID 

ClaIMANT(s)  and  THE  SUCCESSORS,  HEIRS  OR  ASSIGNS  OF  THE  SAID  ClAIMANT(s) 

FOR  THE  TERM  OF   SEVENTEEN   YEARS  FROM  THE  DATE  OF  THIS  GRANT,  SUBJECT 

THE  PAYMENT  OF  ISSUE  FEES  AS  PROVIDED  BY  LaW,  THE  RIGHT  TO  EXCLUDE 

lERS  FROM  MAKING,  USING  OR  SELLING  THE  SAID  INVENTION  THROUGHOUT  THE 

:D  States. 


©rabrmark  (§fftr^  ^o  ^  a/p'a:ec/a///e    (Oi^ 
o/ ymi/f/ia/o/i- //id.  fifteenth  c/a^ 

oJ^     November       m/Aeaca/'o/^oa/''^£o/'</o/ie     || 
//io//da/ic/ /ime Au/f (//'€(/ a/i(/    seventy-seven,     |i 
f/o/^Me  (Jvi^e/^e/ic/e/icc  o/^/Ae    oo/ie/ea  C/iia/ed    ||«; 
o/fS*me/'(ca  Me  /uno  /a/if//<e(//A  a/i</    second . 


►^:«xrs*c^j^3Sc:cac:^feC«r23c::ss 


^a^m^Mm 


^ttati^gtmmm^kk 


GPO     197i     O   2^'3   4SJ 


Vol.  85,  No.  1 


1  Alumni  Attitudes:  Some  Answers 

Preliminary  results  from  the  recent  survey  of  alumni  attitudes 
and  opinions. 

2  EUREKA!  an  inventor's  point  of  view 

Bob  Brass,  '57,  discusses  the  joys  and  the  sorrows  of  being  an 
inventor.  Those  may  be  toys,  but  they're  certainly  not  child's 
play! 

10       Technology  is  the  answer— but  that's  not  the  question 

Melvm  Kranzberg,  historian  of  technology  from  Georgia  Tech, 
discusses  the  place  of  WPI  in  the  history  of  engineering  educa- 
tion in  his  1981  Commencement  Address. 

14        "Daddy  Wags  " 

Although  he  can  be  as  hard  as  the  rocks  and  mountains  he 
loves  to  climb.  Chemical  Engineering  professor  Robert  Wagner 
can  also  be  a  real  softy  when  it  comes  to  "his  kids." 

16       Chet  Inman:  Not  afraid  to  talk  up! 

40  years  without  a  voicebox  certainly  haven't  silenced  this 
alumnus. 

18       REUNION 

That  word  pretty  much  says  it  all,  but  1981  was  one  of  the 
most  enthusiastic  reunions  the  WPI  campus  has  ever  seen. 

26  Your  class  and  others 

27  Chapin  Cutler  receives  IEEE  Edison  Medal 
39       Completed  careers 

41        Notes  from  the  Editor 


Editor  H   RiJSSEU.  Kav 

Alumni  Information  E4iitoT:  Ruth  S  Trask 

Designer:  H  RussEti  Kay 

Typeseitiny  County  Photo  Compositing, 
Inc  ,  Icfferstm,  Mass. 

Printing:  Davis  Press,  Inc  ,  Worcester,  Mass 

AJumru  Publications  Committee  Donald  E 
Ross,  '^,  chairman,  Rohfjit  C  Cosunc,  '6ft, 
Sidney  Maijwu),  '49,  Samuei  W  Mencow, 
'37;  Stanley  R  NEcirs,  |b  ,  '^4;  UmY  NrrscH, 
'7$ 


Address  all  correspondence  to  the  Editor,  The 
WPI  journal.  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute, 
Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609.  Telephone 
16I71  T^?>-\A\\ 

The  WPI  juumai  is  published  tor  the  WPI 
Alumni  A.ssociation  by  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute.  Copyright  ^    1981  by  Worcester 
F'olytcchnic  Institute  All  rights  reserved. 

The  WPI  loumal  (dsps  i.ssn  no.  0148-6128)  is 
published  live  times  a  year,  quarterly  plus  a 
catalog  issue  | identified  as  no  2'  in  Septem- 
ber. Second  Class  p(»stage  paid  at  Worcester, 
Massachusetts 


WPI  ALUMNI  ASSOCIATION 

President:  Peter  H.  Hor.stmann,  '<;s 

Senior  Vice  President:  Cij\rk  Poi^xNf),  '48 

Vice  President:  Harry  W.  TfeNNEY,  JR.,  '^6 

Secretary-Treasurer:  Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President   Iohn  H  McCabe,  '68 

Executive  Committee  mcmhers-atlaige: 
Phild'  B  Ryan,  '6s;  Donaid  E.  Ross,  'S4; 
An.son  C.  Fyier,  '4S;  Walter  Lankau,  '64 

Fund  Hoard  Hinry  Styskal,  [r.,  '^O,  chair- 
man, Ric  hard  B   Kennedy,  '6s,  vice 
chairman;  Gerald  Finkle,  's7;  Philip  H. 
Pdddincton,  '<iy;  Richard  A.  Davis,  '53; 
C.  John  Lindegren,  '39;  )ohn  H.  Tracy,  '52 


Alumni  Attitudes:  Some  Answers 


THE  WPI  alumnus:  how  does  he  or 
she  feel  about  WPI  in  general 
and  about  the  alumni  program  in 
particular? 

The  WPI  Alumni  Association,  in  or- 
der to  strengthen  and  improve  its  overall 
program,  wanted  to  leam  the  answers  to 
these  questions.  In  March,  alumni  atti- 
tudinal  surveys  forms  were  mailed  to 
11,716  WPI  alumni,  and  the  preliminary 
results  have  been  very  gratifying.  By  the 
April  20th  deadline,  2,874  replies  had 
been  received.  An  excellent  response! 
(Another  250  replies,  as  yet  not  ana- 
lyzed, were  received  after  the  April 
deadline.) 

The  strong  25%  response  to  the 
Alumni  Attitudinal  Survey  is  indicative 
of  the  interest,  concern,  and  support  for 
WPI  and  the  alumni  program  found  in 
the  alumni  body. 


A^fD  WHAT  ABOUT  Current  alumni? 
Who  actually  mailed  back  the 
questionnaires?  The  distribu- 
tion of  responses  to  the  survey  pretty 
well  followed  the  general  alumni  popu- 
lation, whether  by  class,  age,  or  sex.  In 
all,  2,743  men,  89  women— and  another 
42  who  apparently  weren't  sure- 
responded  to  the  svirvey.  The  heaviest 
response  came  from  the  1971-80 
classes,  who  account  for  36%  of  all  WPI 
alumni  and  whose  responses  were  35% 
of  the  total  received.  Just  vmder  half 
those  who  retiimed  questiormaires  cur- 
rently live  within  200  miles  of  WPI. 

In  the  occupational  category,  the 
greatest  number  of  replies  came  from 
engineers  (30%),  followed  by  managers 
(28%),  and  retired  persons  (13%)). 
Alumni  engaged  in  sales  and  marketing 
accounted  for  7%  of  the  responses. 

The  most  prevalent  salaries 
reported  by  alumni  were  in  the  $25,000 
to  $50,000  range  (52%),  with  19%  in 
the  $15,000-$25,000  bracket  and  12%  in 
the  $50,000  to  $75,000  category.  Sixty- 
five  persons  listed  an  income  of  over 
$100,000. 


TURNING  TO  the  qualitative  judg- 
ments expressed  by  the  respon- 
dees,  the  college  fared  well  in 
terms  of  general  image,  reputation,  and 
prestige.  For  example,  1,118  alumni,  or 
38.9%,  gave  WPI  a  "One  of  the  Best" 
rating.  49%  said  above  average,  while 
7%  graded  WPI  as  average.  Only  48 
people  (just  1.7%)  felt  WPI  was  below 
average. 

A  similar  pattern  evolved  when 
alumni  were  asked  how  they  would  rate 
their  WPI  education  when  compared  to 
that  received  by  other  engineering  or 
science  graduates.  Nearly  90%  rated 
their  WPI  education  as  superior.  And 
two-thirds  would  definitely  recommend 
a  WPI  education  to  a  relative. 

When  asked  about  WPI's  relation- 
ship with  its  alumni,  22%  of  respon- 
dents felt  it  was  excellent,  57%  good, 
13%  fair,  and  only  1.6%  poor 

On  the  financial  side  of  the  picture, 
84%  of  the  respondees  had  contributed 
financially  to  WPI,  with  69%  contribut- 
ing annually  and  23%  intermittently. 
64%  replied  they  would  be  willing  to  in- 
crease (or  begin)  contributions  in  order 
to  keep  WPI  a  small,  high  quality  pri- 
vate college. 

The  quantity,  quality,  and  effective- 
ness of  WPI  alumni  mailings  received 
Jiigh  marks.  Most  felt  the  quantity 
was  about  right,  with  25%  noting  its 
quality  was  excellent  and  62%  good. 
Overall,  70%  believed  the  mailings 
were  effective. 

Alumni  news  won  the  popularity 
contest  as  the  topic  alumni  most 
wanted  to  see  in  college  publications, 
being  mentioned  2,134  times.  Educa- 
tional topics  drew  1500  replies;  campus 
life,  1475;  faculty  profiles,  1357;  and 
technical  topics,  1257.  Interest  was  also 
shown  in  athletics,  851,  and  financial 
information,  740. 

There  seemed  to  be  a  general  im- 
pression that  alumni  received  more 
fund-raising  mail  than  was  actually  the 
case.  During  a  12-month  period,  a  typi- 
cal non-donor  may  receive  7  pieces  of 
fund-raising  literature  from  WPI,  out  of 
a  total  of  approximately  28  pieces  of 
alumni  mail.  While  56%  believed 
(accurately)  that  one-fourth  was  fund- 
oriented,  another  27%  thought  fund- 
raising  accounted  for  up  to  half  of 
alumni  mail. 


IN  ORDER  TO  SUMMARIZE  and  analyze 
the  questionnaires  received,  the  sur- 
vey committee,  chaired  by  Paul  Ken- 
nedy, '67,  enlisted  the  support  of  the 
statistical  group  of  the  WPI  mathemati- 
cal sciences  department.  WPI  Seniors 
Bonnie  Cook  and  Tom  Hryniewicz  pro- 
vided the  computer  programming, 
which  incidentally,  produced  a  printout 
eight  inches  thick!  They  used  informa- 
tion provided  by  a  group  of  ten  under- 
graduate students  who  input  the 
responses  into  the  computer. 

Barbara  Ziff,  manager  of  informa- 
tion and  support  services  in  WPI's  Uni- 
versity Relations  office,  reports  that  "it 
was  interesting  to  watch  the  attitude 
and  enthusiasm  of  these  students,  for 
not  only  did  they  enjoy  what  they  were 
doing,  they  also  showed  considerable 
pride  in  WPI  and  reacted  quite  strongly 
when  alumni  responded  with  negative 
comments  that  they  thought  were 
inappropriate. "Adds  Chairman  Ken- 
nedy: "Perhaps  this  speaks  well  for  the 
pride  and  concern  being  instilled  in  our 
undergraduates.  Hopefully,  it  will  carry 
over  into  their  alumni  days." 


THESE  ARE  ONLY  the  preliminary 
findings  of  the  Alumni  Attitudi- 
nal Survey.  They  show  some  defi- 
nite trends,  and  different  patterns  based 
on  geography  and  age  breakdowns.  (One 
member  of  the  Class  of  1928  set  a  prece- 
dent, if  not  a  trend.  He  included  an  un- 
solicited $1000  gift  to  the  Alumni  Fund 
with  his  completed  svirvey!) 

In  the  next  issue  of  the  Journal, 
more  complete  data  from  the  survey  and 
the  essay  questions  will  be  analyzed. 
Even  at  this  preliminary  stage,  reliable 
data  has  been  obtained  which  will  ulti- 
mately help  in  the  reevaluation  of  the 
WPI  alumni  program.  Information  re- 
ceived from  the  Alumni  Attitudinal 
Survey  is  expected  to  provide  the 
foundation  and  basis  for  increased  effec- 
tiveness of  alumni  activities  in  the 
months  and  years  to  come. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  I'^Hl 


EUREKA! 

an  inventor's  point  of  view 


by  Robert  Brass,  '57 


THE  QUESTIONS  THAT  POP  into  everyone's  mind  when 
talking  with  an  inventor  are:  How  do  you  get 
ideas?  Once  you  have  an  idea,  how  do  you  sell  it? 
Why  are  you  an  inventor?  Why  do  you  risk  this?  To  an- 
swer some  of  these,  I'd  like  to  recount  some  significant 
events  that  have  shaped  my  recent  decision  to  cut  the 
umbilical  cord  to  the  corporate  world  and  become  an  in- 
dependent inventor. 

I  did  my  first  inventing  at  the  age  of  15,  when  I  in- 
vented three  board  games,  which  I  considered  better 
than  the  commercial  board  games  my  friends  and  I  sat 
around  playing.  Youth  has  a  certain  amount  of  enthusi- 
asm which  is  never  dulled  by  reality.  One  of  these 
games,  called  "Pirates,"  I  submitted  to  Milton  Bradley 
about  20  years  later— with  the  expected  result.  They 
sent  it  back  to  me  and  said  "Sorry,  but  we've  seen  this 
one  before" — in  nicer  terms,  of  course. 

My  first  significant  invention — a  mechanized 
homecoming  display — came  while  I  was  at  WPI.  For 
homecoming  at  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon,  we  created  a  rather 
large  conveyor  belt  with  a  dummy  of  a  Tech  student, 
who  went  from  station  to  station  to  station,  one  for 
each  year  of  college.  The  junior  station  had  a  large  screw 
that  gradually  descended  into  the  student  and  then 
withdrew.  Then  the  senior  station,  entitled  "industry," 
was  in  fact  just  a  cliff.  That  was  my  first  "public" 
invention. 

I  spent  the  summer  of  my  junior  year  working  at 
Bell  Laboratories,  where  there  were  people  whose  names 
I  had  read  about  in  books,  people  like  Bodie,  Nyquist, 
Shocklcy,  etc. — all  the  so-called  key  names  at  that  time. 
I  did  two  significant  things  that  summer — making  a  toy 
and  joining  the  $10,000  Club. 

I  have  to  explain  about  the  $10,000  Club.  When 
transistors  were  first  delivered  from  Western  Electric, 
they  charged  $100,000  per  shipment.  I  was  there  at  Bell 
Labs  the  summer  the  first  shipment  came  in,  with  10 
transistors  in  it.  I  had  the  distinction  of  dropping  one  on 
the  floor.  For  the  induction  ceremony  to  the  exclusive 
$10,000  club,  I  had  to  feed  a  goldfish  to  the  pet  piranha. 


Through  a  curious  series  of  circumstances,  I  ended 
up  as  a  computer  designer.  I  want  to  state  that  up  front, 
because  there  was  no  such  thing  as  computer  science 
back  in  1957.  In  fact,  there  was  just  that  funny  company 
up  in  Poughkeepsie  that  kept  coming  up  with  these 
things  called  digital  computers.  At  WPI  it  was  the  ana- 
log people  vs.  the  digital  people. 

We  were  working  on  something  called  electronic 
switching,  where  we  used  transistors  to  perform  the 
switching  functions  previously  done  by  relays.  Very 
primitive  by  today's  standards.  I  was  asked  to  teach  a 
course  in  designing  what  we  call  multifunctional  cir- 
cuits. A  gentleman  named  Clarence  Lovell  was  listed  as 
the  instructor.  I  didn't  realize  that  merely  meant  he 
would  choose  the  instructor.  I  was  very  thrilled  about 
taking  the  course,  but  he  called  me  in  one  day  and  said. 


2  /  Summer  1981  /  The  WPI  Jnumal 


"By  the  way,  congratulations;  you're  teaching  it."  I  re- 
ally didn't  know  anything  about  the  subject,  so  there  I 
was  in  the  fabled  position — keeping  just  one  lecture 
ahead  of  the  class.  To  make  it  things  even  more  diffi- 
cult, these  students  were  my  classmates. 

At  Bell  Labs  our  three-year  program  included  two 
years  to  get  a  master's  degree.  My  master's  degree  took 
one  extra  year.  And  since  I'm  talking  about  what  inven- 
tors are  like,  I  have  to  tell  you  why  it  took  me  that  extra 
year.  When  I  was  in  school,  one  of  my  most  difficult 
challenges  was  to  concentrate  on  learning.  What  I  really 
wanted  to  do  was  to  go  out  and  create. 

When  I  graduated  from  WPI,  my  goals  for  the  sum- 
mer were  enjoying  myself  and  going  to  the  movies  in 
the  middle  of  the  week.  Like  everybody  else  in  this  class 
entering  Bell  Labs,  I  was  told  I  didn't  have  sufficient 
mathematical  background  so,  guess  what,  I  was  to  have 
a  six  week,  high-pressure  course  to  learn  real  and  com- 
plex variables. 

But  I  was  determined  to  enjoy  my  summer  as 
planned,  so,  while  everyone  else  prepared  for  real  and 
complex  variables,  I  worked  on  various  electronic  de- 
vices. As  a  result,  I  had  to  spend  an  extra  year  making 
up  that  course. 

This  characteristic,  in  a  sense,  is  a  part  of  the  curse 
of  being  an  inventor.  It's  very  difficult  to  accept  what  is. 
As  a  matter  of  fact,  the  key  to  being  an  inventor  is  that 
you  have  to  reject  what  already  exists.  You  have  to  look 
at  something  and  say,  "I  reject  that.  It's  inadequate.  I 
can  make  something  better."  It  takes  a  certain  amount 
of  arrogance  sometimes,  certainly  a  bit  of  ego,  to  think 
you  can  do  something  better — because  most  of  the  time 
it  doesn't  work  out  that  way. 

Because  I  was  still  studying  in  that  third  year,  I  got 
to  take  courses  not  then  offered  in  colleges — the  design 
of  computer  circuits  was  a  good  example.  This  subject 
simply  was  not  being  taught  in  any  college  in  the  North- 
east. So,  suddenly  here  I  was  teaching  how  to  design 
computer  circuits. 

When  I  was  through  with  that  course,  I  was  asked 
to  work  on  a  little  thing  called  an  Autonomous  Call 
Module.  Now,  in  digital  electronics,  a  flip-flop  is  one 
memory  unit.  Nowadays  we  have  chips  the  size  of  your 
thumb  which  have  16,000  or  64,000  memory  units  in 
them.  The  device  I  was  working  on  then  had  75  flip- 
flops  in  it.  Since  I  knew  how  to  design  computer  cir- 
cuits, I  got  the  assignment  of  designing  this.  It  was  a 
very  low  priority  item  at  the  time,  but  it  turned  out, 
through  a  series  of  flukes,  that  this  one  little  thing  with 
75  flip-flops  ended  up  being  a  computer  all  by  itself.  And 
that's  what  really  began  my  career  of  serious  invention. 


I  TALKED  BEFORE  ABOUT  REJECTING  WHAT  ALREADY  EXISTS. 
There's  another  way  in  which  rejection  plays  a  key 
role  in  the  life  of  an  inventor.  Nine  out  of  ten  of  the 
inventions  that  I  have  submitted  have  been  turned 
down— politely,  usually.  At  first  this  was  very  emotion- 
ally difficult  to  accept.  Being  able  to  live  with  rejection 
is  one  of  the  things  that  is  necessary  for  invention. 

You  may  have  played  a  machine  game,  called  "Ski 
and  Score,"  where  you  stand  on  top  of  a  pedal-controlled 
device  and  monitor  a  little  skier.  As  you  move  your  feet 
back  and  forth,  the  little  skier  moves  back  and  forth 
along  the  surface  of  a  rapidly  moving  carpet.  This  was 
originally  designed  as  a  full  sized  unit  called  "Ski 
Deck."  The  investor  behind  the  large  device  thought  it 
would  be  great  to  turn  that  big  deck  into  a  little  deck, 
put  little  people  on  it,  and  turn  it  into  a  coin-op  game. 
That  hit  the  market  in  1962. 

The  royalties  from  "Ski  and  Score"  were  the  first 
tangible  reward  for  any  of  my  inventions.  I  netted  15 
percent  of  all  the  money  that  came  in.  Considering  all  of 
the  time  I  put  into  developing  the  device,  I  ended  up 
making  something  like  $2  an  hour.  But  it  whetted  my 
appetite. 

I  was  still  enjoying  working  life  at  Bell  Labs.  But  I 
had  had  a  few  promotions,  and  the  next  logical  step  be- 
camme  going  into  management.  I  took  that  step  reluc- 
tantly, because  I  was  then  accepting  less  time  to  invent 
and  more  time  taking  care  of  other  people's  problems. 


The,  WPIfoumal  /  Summer  1981/3 


After  eight  years  of  managing,  I  felt  that  the  fun  had 
gone  out  of  Bell  Labs.  An  entrepreneurial  spirit  began  to 
push  at  me.  I'd  always  wanted  to  be  independent.  So  I 
decided  to  leave  Bell  Laboratories,  albeit  with  a  great 
deal  of  regret. 

So  I  left.  Realizing  that  Bell  Laboratories  was  really 
an  extension  of  college,  that  I  did  not  truly  have  an  un- 
derstanding of  what  the  outside  world  was  like,  I  de- 
cided to  go  into  consulting.  I  joined  a  small  company 
called  Auerbach  in  Philadephia  and  was  a  principal  con- 
sultant with  them  for  two  and  a  half  years.  I  left  them 
for  Xerox  corporate  headquarters  in  Stamford. 


AT  ABOUT  THE  SAME  TIME,  a  very  significant  event 
occurred.  I  completed  my  first  prototype  board 
game,  called  "Coverup,"  a  title  which  has  since 
grown  to  mean  something  different  from  what  I  origi- 
nally envisioned.  I  have  to  share  with  you  my  reaction 
when  I  first  realized  that  I  had  licensed  it  to  Parker 
Brothers  in  Canada.  The  dominant  question  in  my  mind 
was,  what  was  I  going  to  do  with  my  $10  million,  be- 
cause Coverup  was  going  to  be  a  second  Monopoly. 

Parker  Canada,  on  the  other  hand,  remembers  the 
game  very  well  for  two  reasons.  One,  it  was  not  terribly 
exciting.  Two,  there  turned  out  be  another  Canadian 
game  named  Coverup.  Here  I  was  faced  with  my  first  re- 
ality of  the  world  of  inventing:  just  because  you've 
signed  a  contract  and  just  because  you  can  say,  "that's 
my  invention  sitting  on  the  shelf,"  your  problems  aren't 
over.  Your  problems  are  just  beginning. 

I  got  a  call  asking,  "What  are  we  going  to  do?  The 
other  company  is  suing?  So  I  hired  a  lawyer.  My  first 
$1,000  in  legal  fees  uncovered  the  fact  that  the  other 
company's  Coverup  was  originally  stolen  from  Parker 
Brothers!  That  took  care  of  the  problem.  That  game  was 
sold,  incidentally,  on  a  night  when  three  friends,  with  a 
quart  bottle  of  Dcwar's  on  one  side  of  them  and  my 
game  on  the  other,  decided  my  game  was  the  best  thing 
they  had  ever  played.  Luckily,  one  of  the  three  was  the 
chairman  of  the  board  of  Parker  Canada. 

One  of  the  problems  in  life  is  knowing  when  to 
quit,  and  after  the  game  bombed  on  the  market,  he  re- 
vived it,  maybe  recapturing  his  own  initial  reaction. 
This  was  two  years  after  the  Nixon  situation.  But  the 
name  of  the  game  stayed  the  same.  Not  only  did  this 
game  fail  once,  it  failed  twice. 


The  first  toy  I  ever  licensed  traces  how  an  inventor 
gets  an  idea.  I  went  to  a  small  toy  company  named 
Pressman.  (You  may  know  them  for  making  Triomi- 
noes.)  I  was  introduced  to  them,  by  the  way,  by  the  gen- 
tleman who  poured  the  drink  for  the  chairman  of  Parker 
Canada.  Pressman  had  a  preschool  line  and  after  the  pre- 
vious year's  production  they  found  themselves  with 
200,000  little  wheels  with  nowhere  to  roll.  Could  I  in- 
vent a  toy  that  would  use  those  wheels?  That  was  the 
most  imusual  request  I've  ever  had.  Imagine,  200,000 
wheels!  I  told  them  I'd  think  about  it. 

I  went  home  and  I  came  up  with  a  toy.  Now,  any- 
one who  is  in  the  business  of  inventing  and  who  imder- 
stands  the  toy  industry  as  I  do  now  would  probably  get 
hysterical  over  what  I  produced.  It  was  made  with  two 
thick  sheets  of  acrylic,  which  is  very  expensive,  and 
some  wood.  The  whole  thing  was  rather  large.  What 
you  did  with  it  was  to  put  the  wheels  in  a  slot  at  the 
top,  and  as  you  turned  a  crank  it  would  pick  up  one 
wheel,  drop  it  in  another  slot,  and  the  wheel  would  go 
shooting  across  the  floor.  Not  exactly  thrilling  and  excit- 
ing, but  I  brought  it  to  a  very  desperate  company  that 
had  200,000  wheels  sitting  aroimd.  They  would  have 
done  anything  to  get  rid  of  those  wheels.  Or  so  I 
thought. 

I  demonstrated  my  creation  in  the  board  room.  The 
chairman  was  there,  the  top  executives,  all  six  of  them. 
They  said  "Oh,  that's  tremendous.  That's  fantastic. 
That's  great."  And  immediately  in  their  minds  200,000 
wheels  were  rolling  out  the  factory  doors. 

Then,  all  of  a  sudden,  someone  said,  "Well, 
wouldn't  the  kids  get  kind  of  bored  with  it?" 

By  the  time  half  an  hour  had  gone  by,  the  world's 
greatest  idea  was  teetering  on  the  edge  of  disaster  An- 
other half-hour  and  it  was  dead. 

This  board  meeting  took  place  on  5th  Avenue  and 
23rd  Street.  I  decided  to  walk  back  to  Grand  Central  Sta- 
tion to  think  it  over  What  else  could  I  do?  After  having 
imagined  another  million  dollars  net  with  this  ridicu- 
lous little  thing,  I  was  a  pauper  again. 

I  was  tmdging  along,  when  suddenly  another  use 
for  the  mechanism  occurred  to  me:  Why  not  a  bank?  I 
completely  forgot  about  the  200,000  wheels,  which  I 
knew  I  couldn't  use,  and  up  came  Cranky  Bank.  This 
was  even  more  extravagant  in  its  use  of  materials,  but  at 
least  it  was  a  little  bit  of  fun.  You  would  put  some  plas- 
tic coins  into  various  tunnels,  turn  the  crank,  and  it 
would  go  through  the  exciting  routine  of  making  noise 
and  dropping  the  coin  in. 

When  I  showed  Cranky  Bank  to  the  people  at  Press- 
man, they  were  ecstatic.  The  heck  with  the  200,000 
wheels.  They  wanted  to  build  a  preschool  line  and  here 


4  /  Summer  1981  /  The  WPl  fnumal 


was  just  the  ideal  machine  for  them.  This  toy  hved 
about  45  minutes — until  someone  realized  that  children 
really  don't  like  to  save.  Suddenly  the  toy  was  a  host  of 
problems.  It  wasn't  educational;  it  might  jam;  it  might 
break.  I  was  really  in  trouble. 

Again,  I  decided  on  the  therapeutic  walk  back  to 
Grand  Central.  At  about  35th  Street  I  said  "Aha!  I  know 
what  kids  love  to  do.  They  love  to  telephone."  (Even  at 
this  stage  I  was  still  using  the  same  slot  idea.)  We  added 
a  little  more  play  value  with  three  slots — a  nickel,  a 
dime,  a  quarter.  You  filled  the  slots,  turned  a  crank,  and 
watched  the  coin  come  around,  hit  the  bell,  and  get  de- 
posited. The  slot  gets  filled,  you  turn  a  crank,  the  coin 
comes  around,  hits  the  bell  and  deposits.  On  this  toy  I 
hit  a  bullseye. 


AT  Xerox  I  started  on  the  Information  Systems 
staff  and,  because  I  had  done  some  programming 
as  a  consultant,  I  came  in  as  a  software  expert. 
(By  the  way,  that's  a  very  important  point.  If  you  can 
maneuver  yourself  in  industry  to  a  title  just  before  you 
leave,  you  can  then  enter  the  next  company  as  an  expert 
in  that  title.)  I  was  involved  with  market  planning  and 
in  critiquing  other  people's  work.  This  was  not  exactly 
tough  for  me  to  do.  I  would  harden  myself  and  I  could 
say,  "Well,  that's  a  terrible  thing."  However,  since  my 


entire  corporate  career  started  out  as  a  critiquing  func- 
tion, I  balanced  my  personal  equilibrium  by  putting 
more  and  more  time  into  inventing. 

Up  to  today,  I  probably  have  close  to  50  patents, 
and  of  those  maybe  three  or  four  products  are  still  on 
the  market.  I  would  not  patent  anything  unless  I  had 
somebody  to  sign  the  license.  I  take  a  slight  chance,  of 
course,  that  my  designs  may  appear  under  someone 
else's  name,  and  that  has  happened  to  me  several  times. 
On  the  other  hand,  I  save  an  enormous  amount  of 
money,  since  only  one  out  of  ten  of  my  ideas  becomes 
successful.  If  I  patented  everything,  I  would  now  have 
500  patents  and  probably  quite  a  few  lou's. 

So,  I  started  inventing  and  putting  in  a  lot  of  time — 
evenings  and  weekends  and  vacations.  Being  indepen- 
dent became  more  and  more  important.  Then  came  the 
first  of  two  events  occurred  that  changed  my  mind  and 
my  life.  First,  the  Arabs  turned  off  the  oil.  As  I  had  be- 
gun to  be  more  experienced  in  pre-school,  my  toys  be- 
gan to  get  larger  and  larger.  Suddenly  I  realized  that  all 
of  my  inventing,  all  of  my  approaches,  had  dealt  with 
plastic  as  though  it  were  free.  And  suddenly  I  knew  that 
plastic  was  going  to  be  very  expensive  from  then  on.  Ev- 
erybody was  talking  about  economic  disaster,  and  since 
the  toy  industry  exists  on  people's  "extra"  money,  I 
thought  it  would  experience  problems.  I  felt  as  if  I  had 
just  begun  to  understand  the  game  when  somebody 
changed  the  rules. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1981/5 


One  day  I  sat  back  one  day  and  asked  myself, 
"What  can  I  invent  with  very  Httle  plastic  in  it?"  I'd  like 
to  share  with  you  a  couple  of  things  that  emerged.  I  de- 
cided to  invent  items  with  relatively  small  proportions 
of  plastic  to  keep  costs  down.  One  was  called  "Lost 
Gold",  a  game  that  featured  a  little  device  called  a  gold 
finder,  inside  of  which  was  a  detector.  The  "gold"  nug- 
gets which  you  hid  underneath  the  platform  were  mag- 
netic, and  as  the  detector  went  over,  it  would  flip  into 
one  position.  You'd  track  the  playing  field  to  determine 
whether  you'd  imcovered  gold  or  not — very  much  like  a 
modem  version  of  Battleships.  I  was  very  excited  about 
this  game. 

I  remember  at  one  point  I  thought  that  all  I  would 
really  like  to  do,  for  my  own  self-fulfillment,  was  to 
have  one  game,  just  one  game,  licensed  with  Parker 
Brothers.  As  far  as  I'm  concerned,  they  are  the  best  toy 
company  in  the  United  States — in  terms  of  their  ethics, 
their  approach,  their  professionalism.  I  got  that  game  li- 
censed with  Parker  Brothers,  and  it  was  my  first  real 
break.  Even  though  the  price  was  high,  himdreds  of 
thousands  of  the  games  were  sold,  providing  some  nice 
royalty  income.  I  had  licensed  quite  a  few  things  with 
Pressman,  but  now  this  was  the  big  time. 

Another  game  I  invented  at  that  time  was  a  plat- 
form board  that  rotated,  with  a  series  of  magnets  under- 
neath. When  a  turtle  (which  had  a  piece  of  metal  in  it) 
went  over  the  magnet,  his  head  popped  in  and  the  turtle 
"went  to  sleep." 


►  On  designing  toys  for  children: 

I  don't  design  toys  for  children.  That 
isn't  my  focus.  I  design  them  for  me.  I 
have  never  designed  a  doll,  because  I 
don't  enjoy  playing  with  dolls.  I  in- 
vented these  things  I've  talked  about  be- 
cause I  enjoyed  the  concept  of  them. 
Maybe  that's  why  nine  out  of  ten  are 
rejected — I  liked  them  but  the  children 
didn't. 

►  On  royalties: 

How  does  an  inventor  get  paid?  Royal- 
ties are  the  key.  Royalties  are  a  delight — 
when  you  get  them.  The  United  States 
was  built  on  the  concept  of  the  individ- 
ual inventor.  The  tax  structure  and  the 
patent  structure  favor  the  individual  in- 
ventor, because  the  inventor  makes  cap- 
ital gains.  If  you  can  possibly  avoid  it, 
you  never  sell  an  invention.  You  license 
it.  And  when  you  license  an  invention, 
the  normal  terms  are  S  percent  of  the 
gross  sales— not  profit,  but  gross.  This  is 
all  treated  as  capital  gains. 


►  On  what  you  need  to  know: 

To  me,  the  toy  business  is  a  microcosm 
of  American  industry.  Product  develop- 
ment cycles  are  about  a  year  and  a  half 
long.  Every  single  process  in  making  an 
automobile,  for  example,  is  found  in 
some  of  the  smaller  toys.  Some  of  them 
get  very  sophisticated  and  very  complex. 
If  you're  going  to  be  involved  in  invent- 
ing, you  should  know  law,  accounting, 
taxes,  you  should  be  able  to  sit  and 
work  practically  every  machine  tool. 
I  took  a  summer  course  where  I 
learned  how  to  use  every  machine  tool 
in  Washburn  Shops.  The  more  informa- 
tion you  can  get  about  how  industry 
works,  every  aspect  of  industry,  includ- 
ing marketing,  the  better  it  is  for  you. 


►  On  how  to  find  out  what  you  need  to 
know  as  an  inventor  (such  as  what  sort 
of  rubber  to  use  in  making  Riviton 
rivets): 

I  read  a  lot,  and  I  ask  a  lot  people  a  lot  of 
questions.  Shell  Oil  has  somebody 
called  the  Shell  Answer  Man,  whom 
you  can  call  and  say,  "I'm  interested  in 
a  plastic  that  does  the  following."  If  he 
doesn't  know,  he'll  connect  you  to  the 
people  in  the  company  who  do  know. 

Any  information  you  want  can  gen- 
erally be  gotten  within  five  telephone 
calls.  There's  always  somebody  willing 
to  give  it  to  you.  You  can  go  to  the  fed- 
eral government — they're  often  very 
helpful,  if  you're  willing  to  flatter  some 
of  the  people  there.  On  the  other  hand,  I 
have  found  that  private  industry  is  ex- 
tremely interested  in  helping. 


6  /  Summer  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


To  give  you  an  idea  of  the  fickleness  of  the  invent- 
ing business,  I  brought  "The  Great  Turtle  Race"  to  my 
friend  v^ho  was  vice  president  of  research  at  Parker 
Brothers.  He  liked  it  immediately.  I  started  counting  my 
royalty  checks  again.  Although  the  game  lasted  on  the 
Canadian  market  for  three  or  four  years,  it  never  ap- 
peared in  the  United  States.  The  reason  was  that  there 
was  no  established  market  at  that  time  for  a  relatively 
high  priced  children's  game. 

This  are  both  positive  and  negative  aspects  to  in- 
venting. One  of  the  easiest  ways  to  invent  is  to  make 
something  that  resembles  another  item.  For  example, 
after  Mastermind  came  out,  there  were  copies  all  over. 
Lots  of  people  copied  Scrabble.  Rubik's  Cube  is  now  a 
very  popular  game,  and  we'll  be  seeing  all  sorts  of  varia- 
tions and  versions.  For  some  reason,  everybody  feels 
safe  doing  that.  On  the  other  hand,  me-too  products  of- 
ten become  disasters.  It  is  up  to  the  inventor  to  con- 
vince companies  to  go  into  totally  tmcharted  areas. 


'/:9 


►  On  having  ideas  stolen: 

I'm  aware  of  at  least  two  inventions 
that  were  stolen  from  me.  I  have  two 
ways  of  dealing  with  it.  First,  in  making 
a  large  number  of  inventions,  I  assume 
some  will  be  stolen.  Second,  I  deal  only 
with  people  I  know  are  ethical.  Now, 
how  do  I  know  that?  I  find  out  when 
they're  not  ethical. 

The  industry  I  have  dealt  primarily 
with,  the  toy  industry,  has  to  thrive  on 
ethics.  As  soon  as  a  company  is  known 
as  non-ethical,  the  independent  inventor 
does  not  go  there. 

The  two  ideas  stolen  from  me  were 
not  taken  by  companies.  Although  you 
can  say  a  company  is  not  ethical,  it  is 
more  often  individuals  within  the  com- 
pany who  are  the  real  culprits.  I  brought 
an  idea  to  a  major  toy  company.  An 
R&JD  person  working  for  that  company 
saw  the  idea,  quit,  suddenly  became  an 
independent  inventor,"  and  sold  that 
idea  to  another  company.  It  came  out  in 
the  exact  same  configuration,  and  he 
even  used  the  same  name  I  had  chosen. 


I  did  not  bother  to  pursue  that  one,  be- 
cause unfortunately  it  just  wasn't  worth 
it.  On  the  other  hand,  if  you  have  one 
good  idea,  like  a  Chester  Carlson  (inven- 
tor of  the  electrostatic  photocopier),  the 
best  thing  to  do  is  to  either  get  someone 
to  underwrite  you  so  you  can  get  protec- 
tion, or  just  deal  with  people  you  know 
are  ethical.  As  I've  said,  the  problem  is 
more  often  with  individuals  than  com- 
panies, and  I  really  don't  know  how  to 
handle  that.  Being  an  inventor  is  some- 
times tough. 

I  go  to  only  five  or  six  companies, 
and  in  them  I  have  personal  friends  I 
see.  I  trust  those  people  as  individuals. 
One  happens  to  be  president  of  Schaper 
(the  Cootie  company),  another  is  a  vice 
president  at  Parker  Brothers.  These  are 
usually  key  people  whom  I  know  and 
trust  on  a  personal  basis. 


The  first  time  I  go  to  any  company, 
I  will  never  bring  something  I  think  is 
really  exciting.  I  always  give  something 
that  isn't  quite  as  exciting  to  see  what 
the  reaction  is.  If  you  trust  your  in- 
stincts towards  people,  and  you  deal 
with  people  you  trust,  you  have  a  pretty 
good  shot. 

►  When  a  toy  is  rejected: 

I  normally  design  a  toy  or  game  with  a 
particular  company  in  mind.  Every  com- 
pany has  a  personality.  Quite  often  if  I 
get  rejected  I  just  stop  right  there.  I'd  say 
half  of  my  inventions  are  submitted  to 
just  one  company.  The  rest  of  the  time, 
I  may  try  a  second  company;  I've  never 
gone  to  more  than  three.  There  are  just 
so  many  bruises  I  can  take! 


The  WPIfoumal  /  SummeT  1981/7 


AT  THIS  TIME  I  should  mention  the  significant 
event  that  changed  my  life.  It  involved  a  toy 
called  Riviton.  Let  me  describe  Riviton,  how  it 
was  created,  what  happened  to  it,  and  why  it  signifi- 
cantly altered  my  life— and  why,  because  of  Riviton,  I'm 
here  today. 

I've  always  enjoyed  construction  sets.  When  I  was 
yoimg,  I  just  couldn't  wait  for  the  newest  Erector  Set  to 
come  out.  I  made  the  parachute  jump,  and  the  walking 
robot,  and  I  thought  they  were  just  terrific.  A  few  years 
ago  I  got  aroimd  to  looking  at  the  available  construction 
sets,  and  it  seemed  as  if  the  Erector  Set  was  the  only  re- 
ally flexible  one.  I  said  to  myself,  "Gee  whiz,  there's  not 
much  around." 

The  inspiration  came  one  very  hot  day,  when  I  was 
having  some  beer  from  a  quart  bottle.  After  drinking 
half  a  glass,  I  decided  I  really  didn't  want  any  more. 
How  could  I  seal  the  bottle?  If  you've  every  tried  to  put 
beer  back  into  the  refrigerator  to  drink  the  next  day,  you 
know  the  problem.  Well,  there  is  a  handy  little  device, 
made  of  rubber,  looks  something  like  the  top  end  of  a 
hypodermic  needle.  You  depress  in  the  top,  insert  the 
stopper  into  the  bottle,  release  the  top,  and  the  lower 
part  expands.  Eureka!  Why  not  use  that  technique  as  a 
fastening  device  for  an  erector- type  set? 


Four  years  elapsed  between  that  decision  and  its 
coming  out  on  the  market.  The  Riviton  set  used  little 
rubber  rivets  and  plastic  plates,  with  an  erector  set  con- 
figuration. It  was  very  easy  to  use.  A  little  fastening  tool 
would  grab  the  rubber  rivet,  pull  it  back,  stretch  it  and 
make  it  thiimer.  When  you  put  it  into  the  hole  and  re- 
leased it,  the  rivet  would  expand. 

Parker  Brothers  introduced  that  set  in  1976.  It  was 
one  of  the  most  successful  introductions  of  a  product  in 
the  company's  history.  25,000  people  wrote  in  imsolic- 
ited  comments  which  were  99  percent  favorable.  Parker 
Brothers  was  headed  toward  a  huge  sellout  in  the  next 
year,  and  all  of  a  sudden  my  dreams  for  what  I  wanted  to 
do  were  really  about  to  be  realized.  Now  my  financial 
needs  would  be  taken  care  of.  Now  I  could  go  out  and  be 
independent. 

Riviton  came  out  in  1976,  and  was  a  huge  sellout  at 
Christmas.  Then  in  January,  when  I  was  working  on  the 
next  year's  models,  a  Parker  Brothers  manager  called  me 
in  to  say  we  had  a  slight  problem.  We  couldn't  tell  if  it 
would  be  serious.  A  child  had  swallowed  a  rivet,  along 
with  some  food.  It  got  into  the  child's  throat,  then 
lodged  in  the  limg,  and  the  child  died.  At  that  point  the 
tragedy  hit  me  just  a  little  bit.  I  guess  I  rationalized  it  to 
myself,  thinking  it  happened  with  food,  the  so-called 
restaurant  syndrome.  The  problem  really  came  home  to 
roost  later  that  year.  A  phone  call  three  days  before 
Thanksgiviing  told  me  a  second  child  had  inhaled  a  rivet 
and  died. 

Needless  to  say,  a  lot  of  things  evaporated  right 
then.  First  was  my  so-called  financial  freedom,  my 
ticket  to  do  whatever  I  wanted  to  do.  Second,  I  had  to 
deal  with  the  thought  of  being  indirectly  responsible  for 
the  deaths  of  two  children.  Third,  my  shot  at  immortal- 
ity was  gone. 

Riviton  sales  were  heading  towards  the  $10  million 
mark  the  second  year  alone,  when  my  whole  world 
came  to  a  screeching  halt.  At  that  point,  Parker  Brothers 
asked  me  to  stop  receiving  royalties.  They  withdrew  the 
game  from  the  market  and  offered  a  refund  to  everyone 
who  owned  the  game.  General  Mills  took  an  $11  mil- 
lion write-off.  That,  plus  two  human  lives,  was  the  cost 
of  Riviton. 

I  can  talk  about  it  in  a  relaxed  way  now,  but  for  a 
year  I  couldn't  talk  about  it  at  all.  I  couldn't  go  into  a 
toy  store,  I  couldn't  consider  inventing  anything.  But 
time  soothed  me,  and  I  finally  stopped  worrying  about 
it.  I  began  to  think  about  all  the  implications  of  my  in- 
ventions, and  why  I  was  so  distraught.  Were  my  dreams 
of  independence  destroyed  simply  because  a  single  toy 
didn't  make  it?  So  I  did  what  a  good  pilot  will  do  after 
he  crashes:  get  back  into  an  airplane.  I  promised  myself 
to  invent  another  construction  toy  immediately. 

I  did  it,  and  I  brought  the  constmction  set  to  a  toy 
company.  I  feel  very  comfortable  that  it  is  not  dan- 
gerous, or  I  would  not  have  done  it.  I  called  them  today, 
hoping  I  would  be  able  to  .say  in  this  talk  that  they  ei- 
ther accepted  it  or  rejected  it— and  I'm  very  proud  to  an- 
nounce they  said  they'd  tell  me  on  Friday. 


8  /  Summer  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


MEANWHILE  I  HAD  MADE  somc  dccisions  mysclf .  I 
wanted  to  go  out  and  be  an  independent  inven- 
tor. This  whole  process  of  having  a  huge  suc- 
cess which  turned  into  a  huge  failure  shook  me  right  to 
my  foundations.  It  made  me  realize  what  I  really 
wanted  to  do,  that  I  wasn't  getting  any  younger,  and 
that  now  was  the  time  to  do  it.  So  what  if  I  couldn't  ex- 
ist from  now  until  I  retire  and  then  some,  even  if  I  never 
invented  another  thing.  It  would  be  imreasonable  to  as- 
sume that  there  would  be  no  risk  in  future  invention.  So 
as  a  result,  I  made  the  decision. 

On  December  18  last  year  I  started  doing  my  first 
electronic  toy.  I  said  to  myself,  "Look,  you  started  out 
as  an  engineer;  why  don't  you  go  back  to  being  one?" 

This  dungeons  and  dragons  type  of  game  did  not 
sell.  What  I  want  to  tell  you,  though,  is  that  it  was  an 
intense  learning  experience  for  me.  I  went  literally  from 
December  18  to  January  18,  one  full  month,  giving  my- 
self a  total  immersion  course  releaming  electronics,  re- 
leaming  how  to  program  (in  hexadecimal).  I  emphasize 
this  because  it  is  a  very  important  point.  If  you  want  to 
be  an  inventor,  this  is  the  kind  of  commitment  you 
have  to  make — immerse  yourself  for  a  month  to  leam  a 
new  area  or  refresh  an  old  one.  And  I  mean  getting  up  at 
7  o'clock  and  working  right  through  to  11  or  12  or  1 
o'clock  in  the  morning.  You  may  recall  that  Christmas 
fell  in  that  interval  I'm  talking  about,  as  did  New  Years. 
I  think  I  took  New  Year's  Eve  and  Christmas  morning 
off,  but  that's  all.  I  wanted  to  get  finished  in  time  for 
what  I  call  "silly  season,"  the  time  when  the  manufac- 
turers sign  on  their  new  toys  and  games. 

The  primary  areas  I'm  going  into  now  have  nothing 
to  do  with  toys  and  games.  When  I  received  the 
royalties  from  Riviton,  I  decided  it  was  time  to  retain  a 
tax  attorney,  who  suggested  a  legitimate  shelter,  solar 
energy.  Up  to  that  point,  I  had  not  been'involved  in  solar 
energy  at  all.  I  became  involved,  I  became  fascinated  by 
it,  I  began  to  believe  in  it.  And  finally  I  founded  a  com- 
pany, became  an  investor  in  solar  energy.  One  of  the 
areas  I  plan  to  invent  in,  and  I'm  creating  a  laboratory 
for,  is  solar  energy.  I  will  be  beginning  that  May  1 . 

Other  areas  are  computers  and  computer  printing. 
Fortunately,  and  again  through  knowing  people,  I  have 
been  able  to  get  advances  on  royalties  for  things  I  have 
not  yet  done.  This  is  an  ideal  way  for  an  inventor  to  op- 
erate, because  it  removes  some  of  the  risk.  I'm  in  the 
process  of  forming  a  new  company  to  get  involved  in  the 
computer  area,  a  company  that  I  will  have  nothing  to  do 
with  once  it's  formed.  This  is  an  ideal  option  for  an  in- 
ventor. If  I  can't  find  the  company  that  can  handle  a 
problem,  I'll  form  the  company.  That's  the  approach 
now.  I  hope  it  works. 


ONE  OF  THE  MOST  IMPORTANT  THINGS  I  derived 
from  working  a  decade  at  corporate  headquar- 
ters at  Xerox  is  an  understanding  of  the  way 
American  business  works.  Sooner  or  later,  every  inven- 
tor has  to  face  the  chairman  of  the  board  of  some  com- 


pany, or  face  major  segments  of  the  corporation,  and  it's 
very  nice  to  know  how  they  operate,  nice  to  have  the 
confidence  of  being  able  to  stand  up  there  knowing 
you've  done  it  a  hundred  times  before.  I  think  that's  a 
very  important  attribute  for  any  inventor. 

The  motivation  behind  leaving  the  corporate  world 
was  90  percent  positive,  in  the  sense  that  I'm  going 
somewhere  I  want  to  go.  Only  10  percent  of  the  reason 
is  negative,  leaving  something  I  didn't  like.  I  want  to 
emphasize  those  ratios  before  I  describe  the  things  I 
found  I  didn't  like  in  corporations.  (I  don't  mean  in  any 
way  to  denigrate  Xerox,  which  is  an  excellent  company, 
as  are  Bell  Labs  and  Auerbach.) 

The  longer  I  was  there,  and  the  higher  I  went  in 
management,  format  became  more  and  more  important 
and  content  had  less  and  less  value.  I  saw  around  me 
something  I  refer  to  as  the  "velvet  coffin":  the  higher 
someone  went  in  the  company,  the  more  dependent 
they  became  on  the  company,  the  less  flexibility  they 
had  to  make  independent  decisions.  I  was  very  fortunate 
at  Xerox  in  having  a  steady  source  of  income  from  out- 
side the  company,  so  that  if  I  were  suddenly  fired  it 
wouldn't  be  a  crushing  blow.  But  very  few  people  in 
corporations  have  that  kind  of  security.  As  a  result, 
what  they  say,  how  they  think,  what  they  do,  what  they 
propose  or  don't  propose,  has  job  security  as  a  very  fun- 
damental element. 

I  wanted  to  do  two  things.  I  wanted  to  invent  for 
myself,  yes,  but  I  wanted  also  to  create  an  environment 
in  which  inventors  could  flourish,  an  environment  with 
a  very  special  aspect.  The  longer  an  individual  was 
there,  the  more  independent  he  or  she  would  become. 

I've  always  given  a  percentage  of  my  gross  revenue 
to  the  people  who  have  helped  me  in  my  inventing — 
and  there  have  been  a  lot  of  them:  people  who  have 
done  graphic  design  and  machining.  These  people  love 
to  work  for  me,  and  they're  devoted.  The  longer  I've 
known  them,  the  larger  the  percentage  I  have  given 
them. 

It  occurred  to  me  that  this  would  be  a  wonderful 
way  to  structure  an  organization.  I  realize  inventing  is 
somewhat  unique,  because  success  or  failure  is  not  a  di- 
rect function  of  the  number  of  hours  you  invest,  but  a 
function  of  how  good  the  idea  is  and  how  well  it  sells.  It 
is  now  my  intention  to  create  what  I  call  an  Inventors 
Guild:  to  create  an  environment  to  attract  and  nurture 
good  inventors.  It  will  be  a  place  where  they  can  start 
off  working  for  salary,  then  salary  plus  a  percentage  of 
the  gross  from  what  they've  worked  on,  and  gradually 
build  up  until  they're  getting  a  significant  portion  of  the 
gross.  I  want  to  provide  administrative  services  that 
they  need  at  cost. 

This  would  accomplish  two  things.  First,  the  em- 
phasis is  definitely  where  it  belongs — on  content,  not 
format.  But  second  and  most  important,  the  more  that 
people  work,  and  the  more  time  they  spend  on  what 
they're  doing,  the  more  independent  they  will  become 
rather  than  more  dependent.  That  has  been  an  impor- 
tant element  in  my  life.  It's  the  kind  of  legacy  I  would 
like  to  be  able  to  pass  on  to  others. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1981/9 


Technology  is  the  answer- 
but  that's  not  the  question 


by  Melvin  Kranzberg 

Callaway  Piofessoi  of  the  History  of  Technology 

Georgia  Institute  of  Technology 


IT  IS  HTTiNG  TO  LOOK  AT  engineering  education  in  his- 
torical perspective,  to  show  WPI  graduates  where 
they  fit  into  the  continuum  of  the  engineering 
profession — past,  present,  and  future.  The  history  of  the 
Institute  is  extremely  informative  in  that  regard,  be- 
cause WPI  has  played  a  major  role  in  engineering  educa- 
tion during  the  115  years  since  its  founding. 

The  Worcester  Free  Institute  of  Industrial  Science, 
as  it  was  called  in  1865,  was  involved  from  its  very  be- 
ginnmg  in  a  controversy  over  what  was  the  best  kind  of 
practical  training  for  young  men — not  young  women — 
in  an  America  which  was  rapidly  industrializing.  The 
controversy  was  between  the  advocates  of  what  were 
known  as  the  "shop  culture"  and  the  "school  culture." 
This  latter  view  was  represented  by  institutions  such  as 
Stevens  Institute  and  mit,  and  where  the  focus  was  on 
mathematics,  theoretical  science,  and  original  research 
as  the  major  elements  in  engineering  education.  Worces- 
ter belonged  to  the  "shop  culture,"  stressing  practical 
shopwork  and  producing  graduates  who  would  work  as 
machinists  and  shop  foremen,  but  who  would  not  be  es- 
pecially trained  in  engineering  analysis. 

Robert  H.  Thurston,  a  leader  in  the  mechanical  en- 
gineering profession  at  the  time,  based  the  distinction 
between  the  two  cultures  on  the  argument  that  there 
were  two  different  classes  of  people,  requiring  different 
kinds  of  education:  one  group,  "brilliant  of  intellect," 
was  best  suited  for  intellectual  pursuits  and  the  profes- 
sions; the  other,  endowed  with  what  Thurston  called 
"constructive  faculties,"  consisted  of  individuals  suited 
for  work  with  their  hands. 

In  establishing  the  Washburn  Shops,  where  students 
were  almost  wholly  engaged  in  practical  training, 
Worcester  became  the  national  model  for  the  shop  cul- 
ture. It  was  a  "trade"  school,  as  distinguished  from  what 
Thurston  labeled  the  "technical"  school.  "The  machine 
|was|  the  principal  text  book"  in  the  shop  culture,  and 
items  made  by  students  in  the  shop  were  sold  to  procure 
income  for  the  school. 

10  /  Summer  1981  /  The  WPI  foumal 


So  great  was  the  success  of  the  Worcester  Free  Insti- 
tute's Washburn  Shops  that,  when  the  state  of  Georgia 
decided  that  there  was  need  for  a  technical  institution  to 
build  up  the  industrial  base  of  Henry  Grady's  "New 
South,"  a  delegation  of  prominent  Georgian  officials  and 
educators  visited  the  outstanding  technical  institutions 
in  the  Northeast  and  decided  to  follow  the  Worcester 
model  in  creating  the  Georgia  School  of  Technology.  At 
its  opening  ceremonies  in  1888,  one  of  the  orators  con- 
trasted the  type  of  education  to  be  offered  at  Georgia 
Tech  with  that  provided  at  the  University  of  Georgia  in 
Athens,  exclaiming:  "The  head  is  in  Athens;  the  hands 
are  here  [in  Atlanta].  We  have  here  work  versus  thought; 
practice  against  theory;  the  shop  against  the  study; 
the  hammer  against  the  book;  the  blouse  against  the 
cutaway." 

Alas,  Georgia  Tech's  efforts  to  copy  the  WPI  model 
ended  in  failure.  For  one  thing,  while  Worcester  drew 
students  from  a  well-developed  system  of  public  high 
schools,  Georgia's  secondary  schools  were  so  deficient 
that  Georgia  Tech  had  almost  immediately  to  initiate  a 
sub-freshman  class  for  remedial  work,  simply  to  bring 
its  entering  students  up  to  a  collegiate  level.  Further- 
more, the  school  did  not  succeed  in  luring  to  Atlanta 
those  first-rate  professors  who  had  developed  the 
Washbum  Shops  which  had  made  the  Worcester  model 
so  enticing.  Also,  the  construction  shop  system  antago- 
nized the  local  manufacturers  in  Georgia,  who  objected 
to  the  competition  from  state-subsidized,  student-made 
goods.  By  the  close  of  the  1890s,  Georgia  Tech  was 
forced  to  abandon  the  Worcester  model  and  turn  to  the 
"school  culture"  type  of  engineering  education. 

But  in  that  respect,  too,  Georgia  Tech  was  again 
copying  Worcester.  Because  a  few  years  previously,  the 
transition  from  a  trade  school  to  a  college  of  engineering 
had  begun  in  Worcester.  By  1896,  the  Washbum  Shops 
abandoned  the  hydraulic  elevator  business,  hitherto 
their  chief  source  of  profit,  and  WPI  was  taking  the  lead- 
ership in  the  "school  culture"  which  emerged  trium- 
phant in  engineering  education. 


In  the  period  from  the  beginning  of  this  century 
through  the  Second  World  War,  the  old  dichotomy  be- 
tween "school"  and  "shop"  educations  disappeared,  and 
WPI,  in  common  with  nearly  all  other  engineering 
schools,  produced  the  stereotypical  engineer  of  the 
times.  He  was  a  man  who  wore  a  mackinaw  and  hip- 
boots,  who  built  dams,  bridges,  mines,  electric  motors, 
transmission  lines,  industrial  machinery,  and  factories. 
He  had  become  an  engineer  upon  receiving  his  bache- 
lor's degree  from  an  engineering  school,  where  his  time 
was  spent  on  good,  practical  courses,  such  as  surveying, 
mechanical  drawing,  machine  design,  electrical  circuits, 
and  the  like. 

However,  during  and  since  World  War  n,  the  scope 
of  engineering  practice  enlarged  greatly.  Although  we 
still  need  engineers  to  do  all  the  things  which  engineers 
did  before,  they  are  also  involved  in  lasers,  solid-state 
circuits,  and  advanced  electronic  equipment.  Specialist 
engineers  design  nuclear  reactors,  synthesize  elaborate 
chemical  and  biochemical  compounds,  rearrange  the 
molecules  in  the  genetic  code,  devise  sensitive  teleme- 
tering systems.  Their  work  ranges  from  subatomic  parti- 
cles to  the  boundless  realms  of  space,  from  mining  the 
ocean's  riches  to  gathering  energy  from  the  sun. 


THESE  NEW  FIELDS  required  engineers  to  solve  differ- 
ent problems  than  they  had  faced  only  a  few  years 
earlier.  The  result  was  that  the  substantive  con- 
tent of  engineering  education  was  transformed  following 
World  War  n.  Mathematics  and  physics,  with  which  the 
engineer  had  needed  but  a  passing  acquaintance,  became 
part  of  the  basic  core,  while  practical  courses  in  survey- 
ing and  mechanical  drawing  became  subordinate  or 
were  relegated  to  sub-professional  or,  more  accurately, 
paraprofessional,  technical  institutions — which  now  of- 
fer degrees  in  what  is  called  "engineering  technology." 


Many  of  the  problems  with  which  engineers  con- 
cemed  themselves— such  as  energy,  the  environment, 
transportation— were  seen  to  have  a  "soft"  side— to 
have  social  and  human  components.  Hence  the  humani- 
ties and  social  sciences,  only  a  miniscule  part  of  engi- 
neering education  before  World  War  H,  became 
recognized  as  essential  to  a  complete  engineering 
education. 

hi  the  1970s,  realizing  that  the  world  was  changing 
and  that  engineers  functioned  in  a  social  context  which 
affected  their  engineering  practice,  WPI  again  took  on  a 
pioneering  role  by  systematically  revising  the  traditional 
approach  to  engineering  education  through  the  WPI 
Plan.  Not  only  were  curriculum  requirements  trans- 
formed, but  a  new  project  approach  to  learning  was  in- 
stituted, one  "designed  to  develop  a  greater  awareness  of 
the  relationship  between  science  and  engineering  on  one 
hand  and  social  concern  and  human  values  on  the 
other." 

Does  such  an  approach  make  sense?  Well,  let  us 
look  at  some  of  the  problems  which  current  graduates 
will  confront  in  the  future.  Among  the  most  important 
is  the  growth  in  the  world's  population,  affecting  the  ra- 
tio of  population  to  resources.  During  Classical  Antiq- 
uity, there  were  probably  fewer  than  200  million  people 
on  the  entire  earth— and  it  had  taken  millennia  to  reach 
that  figure.  By  1650  it  had  grown  to  one-half  billion,  and 
scientific  and  technical  developments  allowed  it  to  dou- 
ble to  one  billion  aroimd  about  1830.  But  then,  with  ad- 
vancing industrialization,  things  began  moving  faster. 
By  the  beginning  of  this  century,  the  world's  population 
had  soared  to  over  1.5  billion.  Then  it  took  only  eighty 
years  to  more  than  double  to  today's  4.4  billion,  and  it 
is  expected  to  double  again  in  the  next  35  years.  Indeed, 
a  projected  increase  of  2.26  billion  between  1975  and 
2000  means  that  the  population  rise  during  our  present 
quarter-century  would  equal  the  entire  world  population 
increase  from  the  time  of  Christ  to  1950! 

A  short  time  ago,  our  demographers  reported  some 
heartening  news:  a  "perceptible  decline"  in  the  rate  of 
increase  in  the  world's  population.  Instead  of  growing  at 
1.9  percent  per  year,  as  during  the  1960s,  the  world's 
population  increased  only  at  the  rate  of  1.88  percent  per 
year  in  the  late  1970s.  Sounds  great,  doesn't  it?  But  that 
still  amounts  to  80  million  more  people  each  year.  So, 
instead  of  doubling  every  35  years,  the  world's  popula- 
tion will  now  double  every  37  years.  Big  deal! 

Providing  food,  clothing,  and  shelter  for  this  unpre- 
cedentedly  rapid  population  growth  will  put  great 
strains  on  our  natural  resources.  At  current  rates  of  con- 
sumption, some  resources  are  already  being  exhausted. 
What  will  happen  when  an  exploding  world  population 
with  a  growing  expectation  of  material  goods  begins  us- 
ing up  resources  faster  than  ever?  Obviously,  great  chal- 
lenges will  be  posed  to  technology  to  eke  out  existing 
supplies,  to  recycle,  and  to  develop  substitutes. 

And  don't  think  that  this  population  problem  af- 
fects only  people  in  far-off  places — in  the  Third-World 
countries  of  Asia,  Africa,  and  South  America.  It  is  press- 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1981/11 


ing  upon  our  borders  right  now.  Our  neighbor  Mexico 
has  a  population  growth  rate  three  times  that  of  the 
United  States;  its  present  68  milHon  people  might  rise 
to  134  million  by  2000.  Already  we  are  concerned  about 
the  problem  of  illegal  immigrants  to  this  country,  most 
of  them  coming  from  Mexico,  and  we  are  wrestling 
with  the  problems — social,  economic,  education,  and 
political — raised  by  this  latest  wave  of  immigration. 


OUR  CITIES  ARE  IN  TRANSITION  ALSO.  While  many 
older  cities  strive  to  bring  about  a  reversal  of 
the  urban  deterioration  of  the  past  two  decades, 
the  situation  in  the  rest  of  the  world  appears  to  be  get- 
ting worse.  A  study  by  the  World  Bank  points  out  that 
more  crowding  will  take  place  in  the  world's  poorer 
cities,  just  exactly  the  places  which  can  least  afford  it. 
In  1950  only  29  percent  of  the  world's  population  lived 
in  urban  areas,  but  slightly  over  half  will  be  living  in 
cities  by  the  year  2000.  Some  of  the  predictions  boggle 
the  imagination,  such  as  the  one  that  Mexico  City  may 
have  a  population  of  30  million  by  the  end  of  this 
century. 

If  the  world's  urban  centers  grow  as  predicted,  not 
only  will  there  be  great  strain  on  urban  services — on 
transportation,  sewage,  housing,  medical  facilities,  and 
the  like— but  there  will  also  have  to  be  tremendous  agri- 
cultural development  just  to  feed  the  growing  number  of 
people  no  longer  engaged  in  food  production  on  farms. 

The  changing  demographic  profile  in  our  own  coun- 
try will  also  present  technological  problems.  According 
to  the  1980  census,  the  average  age  of  Americans  is 
higher  than  ever  before.  The  median  age  is  now  30,  and 
it  is  expected  to  rise  sharply  over  the  next  three  decades. 
This  changing  age  distribution  of  our  population  has 
major  social  and  financial  ramifications — already  evi- 
dent in  the  problems  regarding  the  funding  of  the  Social 
Security  system.  But  it  has  important  technological  im- 
plications as  well,  for  it  will  impact  upon  our  use  of  re- 
sources and  our  nation's  productivity. 

Another  problem  involving  population  and  the  re- 
source base  is  the  growing  need  for  water.  The  world's 
population  grows  by  almost  200,000  people  per  day, 
each  requiring  500  tons  of  water  per  year.  Last  year's 
population  increase  alone  created  an  additional  annual 
demand  of  36  billion  tons  of  water,  or  the  equivalent  of 
a  medium-sized  river. 

Docs  anyone  seriously  believe  that  we  can  meet  our 
future  water  needs  by  cursing  technology?  Or  does  any- 
one truly  object  to  our  encouraging  our  technology  so 
that  wc  can  meet  the  energy  and  food  needs  of  today 
and  tomorrow? 

Nevertheless,  some  prf)ponents  of  a  "new  con- 
sciousness," or  a  "counter-culture,"  turned  their  backs 
on  technology  a  dozen  years  ago.  They  gave  us  tren- 
chant criticism  of  our  current  society,  but  they  didn't 
tell  us  what  to  do  when  the  flowers  broke  through  the 
concrete  pavement.  They  advocated  a  lifestyle  which 
was  very  beguiling  and  appealing  to  affluent  college 

12  /  Summer  19H1  /  The  WPl  Journal 


youth.  But  they  did  not  tell  us  how  this  lifestyle  would 
solve  problems  like  poverty  and  medical  care  distribu- 
tion and  resource  depletion  and  air  pollution  and  the 
hunger  of  most  of  the  people  throughout  the  world. 

The  problems  have  one  thing  in  common:  We  need 
engineers  to  solve  them,  but  the  engineers  cannot  solve 
them  alone.  For  these  are  "interface"  problems.  There  is 
the  interface  between  science  and  technology  on  the  one 
hand,  and  society  and  humanity  on  the  other.  These 
problems  can  only  be  resolved — if  they  can  be  solved  at 
all — with  the  aid  of  scientific  knowledge,  technical  ex- 
^pertise,  social  comprehension,  and  humane  compassion. 

You  see,  technology  is  the  answer,  but  it  is  only 
part  of  the  answer.  The  real  question  is.  What  do  we 
value  in  our  lives  and  do  we  possess  the  national  will  to 
act  upon  these  values?  Once  we  have  answered  that 
question,  we  can  ask  which  technology  or  technologies 
will  best  meet  our  needs. 

Our  modem,  highly  sophisticated  technology  gives 
us  many  different  technological  options  wc  can  use  to 
cope  with  the  many  problems  which  beset  us.  Unlike 
earlier  days,  when  the  level  of  technology  was  so  low 
that  mankind  could  make  only  limited  use  of  resources, 
we  now  have  many  technical  opportunities  before  us. 
Which  opportunities  we  grasp  will  depend  upon  our 
value  system,  the  institutions  which  embody  our 
values,  and  our  willingness  to  make  the  necessary  trade- 
offs and  decisions  among  competing  social  and  eco- 
nomic pressures. 


THE  INTRUSION  OF  SOCIAL  AND  VALUE  QUESTIONS 
into  the  practice  of  engineering  has  blasted  engi- 
neers out  of  their  smug  complacency  about  the 
triumphs  of  modem  technology.  For  many  years  engi- 
neers could  point  out  how  they  had  increased  productiv- 
ity, provided  food,  clothing,  and  shelter,  quickened 
transportation,  heightened  communication,  and  the 
like.  But  over  a  decade  ago  there  began  a  critical  on- 
slaught on  technology,  questioning  its  benefits  to 
mankind. 

When  engineers  could  no  longer  shrug  off  questions 
about  the  worth  of  technology  to  the  contemporary 
world,  their  professional  societies  sought  to  demonstrate 
that  engineers  are  truly  concerned  about  society's  wel- 
fare. Sensitive  to  public  opinion  and  social  pressures,  en- 
gineering societies  within  the  past  decade  have  gone  to 
considerable  trouble  to  strengthen  their  ethical  codes 
and  show  their  social  concern.  But  when  I  ask  the  offi- 
cers of  engineering  professional  associations  if  they  have 
ever  disciplined  anyone  for  violating  their  beautiful  new 
ethical  codes,  I  discover  that  the  only  reason  they  ever 
kick  a  member  out  is  for  non-payment  of  dues! 

The  second  reaction  of  engineers  to  the  public  ques- 
tioning of  technology  was  just  what  you  might  expect; 
namely,  advocating  more  technology  in  order  to  over- 
come the  troubles  which  had  been  brought  about  by 
technology  in  the  first  place,  hi  otherwords,  they  have 
sought  a  "technological  fix,"  remedying  matters  by  the 
application  of  more  or  better  technology. 

It  is  not  surprising  that  engineers  should  seek  solu- 
tions for  problems  from  their  own  field.  After  all,  past 
technical  solutions  had  resolved  many  problems  of  food 
and  material  production,  transportation  and  commimi- 
cation,  and  so  forth.  Yet  each  solution  seemed  to  call 
forth  new  and  unforeseen  problems  because  engineers 
remained  blissfully  unaware  of  the  social  implications  of 
their  actions  or  of  the  possibility  that  a  benign  technol- 
ogy might  somehow  turn  sour  when  applied  on  a  vast 
scale. 

Let  me  give  you  an  example  of  how  the  scale  of  use 
can  turn  a  technical  panacea  into  a  new  disease.  At  the 
turn  of  this  century  the  automobile  was  extolled  as  a  so- 
lution to  the  pollution,  congestion,  and  safety  problems 
posed  by  horse-drawn  transportation.  That  was  the  time 
when  in  New  York  City  alone  horses  deposited  some  2.5 
million  pounds  of  manure  and  60,000  gallons  of  urine  in 
one  day.  The  automobile  promised  relief  from  these 
problems,  but,  as  we  all  know,  pollution,  congestion, 
and  safety  problems  returned  in  altered  and  heightened 
form  as  a  result  of  the  large-scale  use  of  the  automobile. 
So  what  do  we  do?  We  angrily  demand  that  Detroit 
employ  a  "technological  fix"  by  changing  engine  design 
in  order  to  do  away  with  the  dangerous  exhaust  and  at 
the  same  time  use  less  fuel. 

But  such  technical  solutions  give  us  only  a  tempo- 
rary respite  from  further  problems,  unless  our  technol- 
ogy is  applied  with  some  understanding  and  compre- 
hension of  the  social  context  in  which  it  will  be  em- 
ployed. 

This  means  that  we  have  a  tremendous  educational 


job  on  our  hands.  In  addition  to  educating  engineers  to 
an  understanding  of  society— which  we  have  begun  to 
do  through  such  programs  as  the  WPI  Plan— we  have 
the  even  more  difficult  task  of  educating  non-scientists 
and  non-engineers  to  an  understanding  of  science  and 
technology  and  their  role  in  society.  For  solutions  of  the 
interface  problems  of  the  future  problems  will  require 
the  efforts  of  all  of  us,  not  just  scientists  and  engineers. 

Do  we  have  the  courage  to  make  difficult  choices? 
Or  have  we  become  a  nation  of  materialistic  hedonists, 
as  some  critics  say,  unwilling  to  forego  material  goods 
and  creature  comforts  regardless  of  the  effects  upon 
others  now  and  in  the  future? 

It  might  well  be.  Indeed,  Archibald  MacLeish,  the 
poet,  once  said:  "America  was  promises." 


AMERICA  was  promises"?  Have  we  lost  the  ability 
to  fulfill  the  great  promise  that  was  America? 
I  believe  that  America  is  still  promises.  One 
reason  I  believe  that  is  that  I  am  an  historian  of  technol- 
ogy, and  technological  history  has  always  been  on  the 
side  of  the  optimist.  After  all,  we  call  ours  a  man-made 
world.  If  that  is  so,  I  claim  that  man  can  remake  it.  We 
will  need  an  enlightened  technology  to  do  so,  one  en- 
lightened by  awareness  of  and  sensitivity  to  human  and 
social  parameters.  This  means  that  technology  is  indeed 
the  answer — but  the  real  question  is  what  kind  of  world 
do  we  want  our  technology  to  make. 

The  second  reason  I  believe  that  America  is  still 
promises  is  I  teach  young  scientists  and  engineers.  I  am 
impressed  with  their  concern  for  the  good  of  mankind. 
Sure,  they  want  well-paying  jobs,  but  they  also  want  to 
make  the  world  a  better  place  to  live  while  pursuing 
their  personal  goals.  This  is  exactly  the  same  combina- 
tion of  idealism  and  practicality  which  motivated  the 
builders  of  our  nation. 

That  gives  me  confidence  that  we  can  meet  the 
problems  of  the  future,  even  though  I  recall  that  Alfred 
North  Whitehead,  the  great  British  philosopher,  once 
said:  "It  is  the  business  of  the  future  to  be  dangerous."  I 
think  that  we  can  accept  the  risks  with  composure  and 
confidence  if  we  can  educate  our  college  graduates  to 
make  our  technology  contribute  to  the  achievement  of 
our  human  goals  and  the  solution  of  the  problems  of  our 
social  and  natural  ecology. 

If  we  professors  have  done  our  jobs  properly,  then 
our  graduates  should  be  able  to  do  theirs.  I  think  that 
they  can  solve  the  socio-technical  problems  of  the  fu- 
ture. I  am  sure  that,  in  so  doing,  their  success  will  be 
only  partial.  They  will  create  more  problems  for  their 
successors,  even  as  my  generation  has  done  for  them.  I 
think  their  successors  will  also  solve  those  problems, 
and  in  tum  create  new  ones,  and  so  history  will  be 
made.  And,  as  an  historian  of  technology,  let  me  con- 
clude by  reminding  you  that  the  lesson  of  that  history 

is  HOPE. 


The  WPI  loumal  /  Summer  1981  /  13 


ii 


Daddy  Wags'' 


by  Ruth  Trask 


THERE  IS  LITTLE  DOUBT  how  StudcntS 
feel  about  him.  The  nameplate 
on  his  cluttered  desk  in  Goddard 
says  it  all:  'Daddy  Wags.' 

Officially,  Dr.  Robert  E.  Wagner 
is  professor  of  chemical  engineering. 
For  31  years,  he  has  taught  many 
courses  at  WPI,  but  his  favorites  are 
"Unit  Ops"  and  "Thermo".  He 
advises  60  students.  But  it  is  the 
unofficial  side  of  Bob  Wagner,  his 
genuine,  warm  concern,  which  has 
drawn  a  generation  of  students 
to  him. 

He  received  his  nickname  some  ten 
years  ago  while  giving  impromptu  lec- 
tures on  the  evils  of  drugs.  One  student, 
as  deeply  committed  as  Wagner,  kept 
punctuating  his  points  with,  "That's 
right!  You  got  it,  Daddy  Wags!"  The 
name  stuck. 

"Last  summer,  my  commuters  pre- 
sented me  with  the  'Daddy  Wags'  name- 
plate,"  he  says.  "They  also  gave  me  a 
birthday  party  I'll  never  forget.  I'd  been 
mountain  climbing  all  day,  and  fell  into 
bed  before  midnight.  At  1:30  a.m.,  the 
doorbell  rang,  and  I  answered  it  in  my 
shorts.  There  on  the  front  lawn  stood  20 
commuters.  Well,  we  partied  and  shot 
off  fireworks  until  4  a.m.  Luckily,  my 
wife  Ruth  had  warned  the  neighbors!" 
To  say  that  Wagner  loves  climbing 
with  a  passion  is  an  understatement. 
His  enthusiasm  for  the  sport  is  conta- 
gious, and  over  the  years  many  of  his 
students  have  caught  the  bug,  especially 


during  the  treks  he  leads  at  Intersession. 
'This  past  January  we  had  a  ball,"  he  re- 
ports. "In  spite  of  the  upcoming  compe- 
tency exam,  about  16  of  us  decided  to 
climb  in  Crawford  Notch.  The  weather 
was  terrible.  About  20  below  most  of 
the  time,  but  the  air  was  crystal  clear. 
We  managed  to  climb  three  Presiden- 
tials:  Adams,  Madison,  and  Clinton.  We 
also  took  the  bridle  path  to  the  ridge  be- 
low Lafayette.  Once  on  the  ridge,  all 
the  chatter  about  girls  and  good 
times  suddenly  ceased.  Before  us 
was  the  panorama  of  Liberty,  Hay- 
stack, and  Lafayette.  The  sight  was 
breathtaking!" 


glaciers,  and  climbed  out  of  Zermatt. 
Along  the  way,  they  admired  great  wa- 
terfalls, summer  snow  fields,  Alpine 
flowers,  unique  formations  of  soft  lime- 
stone, and  from  afar,  the  Matterhom. 
("Hope  to  climb  it  next  time.") 


Wagner,  a  registered  professional  engi- 
neer with  degrees  from  Drexel  and 
Princeton,  is  not  always  climbing 
mountains  or  teaching.  For  17  years,  he 
served  as  coordinator  for  the  New  Eng- 
land Gas  Association  School  at  WPI,  and 
he's  been  a  consultant  for  Common- 
wealth Gas  for  24  years. 


Active  with  the  Appalachian  Moun- 
tain Club  (amc),  Wagner  has  served  as  a 
vice  president  of  the  amc  in  Boston  and 
as  past  chairman  of  the  Worcester  chap- 
ter. He  also  belongs  to  the  4000-Footers 
Club,  having  often  climbed  the  46 
4,000-ft.  peaks  in  the  White  Mountains, 
as  well  as  seventeen  others  in  Maine 
and  Vermont,  in  summer  and  winter.  An 
experienced  guide,  in  1971  he  led  eight 
people  from  the  East  on  a  14-day  trek 
through  Teton  National  Park  in  Wyo- 
ming. "In  12  days,  we  did  nine  major 
summits,"  he  says,  "including  the 
Grand  Teton,  a  14,()00-ft.  peak. 

Four  years  ago,  Wagner  took  the  va- 
cation of  his  dreams.  He  and  Ruth  flew 
to  Europe  and  camped  in  beautiful  loca- 
tions throughout  the  Alps  for  $3  a  night. 
In  mid-vacation  they  were  joined  by  a 
climbing  companion  and  his  wife. 
While  the  wives  toured  in  their  new 
Audi,  Bob  and  iiis  friend  did  the  Do- 
lomites and  Austrian  Alps,  tramped  over 


His  profession  combined  with  dec- 
ades of  outdoor  life  have  made  Wagner 
an  expert  on  the  dangers  of  camping 
equipment,  especially  lightweight 
stoves,  which  he  has  tested  extensively. 
Back  Packer  magazine  has  published 
two  articles  about  camp  stoves  written 
by  Wagner  and  former  WPI  colleague 
Joseph  Kohler. 

"The  main  danger  is  the  lethal  level 
of  carbon  monoxide  given  off  by  back- 
packing stoves  in  normal  use,"  he  ex- 
plains. "And  cooking  inside  a  closed 
tent  only  exacerbates  the  problem. 
Cooking  should  always  be  done  in  a 
level,  safe,  well-ventilated  area."  Some 
other  Wagner  hints  for  safe  stove  use: 
'Test  the  stove  at  home  following  man- 
ufacturer's directions;  don't  overfill  or 
overprimc;  use  correct  fuel  and  right- 
size  potS;  turn  the  stove  off  if  it's  not 
working  properly;  and,  above  all,  keep 
cool!  If  something  goes  wrong,  think 
before  you  act!" 


14  /  Summer  19H1  /  The  WPI  Journal 


In  the  beginning,  Wagner  was  not  a 
booster  of  the  WPI  Plan.  "But  my  black 
hat  is  gradually  turning  to  gray,"  he  con- 
fides, flashing  his  quick  smile.  "For  cer- 
tain math  and  engineering  courses,  I'm 
against  the  seven- week  term,  hi  a  sur- 
vey we've  discovered  that  90  percent  of 
students  feel  the  same  way." 

According  to  Wagner,  students  cur- 
rently have  too  much  freedom  in  course 
selection.  For  example,  only  33  sopho- 
mores out  of  73  took  organic  lab  this 
year,  the  excuse  being  that  it  is  too 
time-consuming.  "There  are  some  sub- 
jects that  should  be  required." 

He  feels  that  grading  under  the  Plan 
is  another  problem,  hi  order  to  graduate 
with  high  distinction,  a  student  must 
receive  an  ad  (acceptable  with  distinc- 
tion) on  both  qualifying  projects,  the 
sufficiency,  and  on  the  competency  ex- 
amination. To  graduate  with  distinc- 
tion, the  student  must  get  ad's  on  three 
of  the  four  degree  requirements. 

"Note  the  inequity,"  he  comments. 
"It's  possible  for  a  student  to  graduate 
with  honors  without  having  ever  re- 
ceived a  single  distinction  (ad)  in  any  of 
his  regular  courses  over  a  four-year  pe- 
riod. Is  this  fair  to  the  consistently  out- 
standing student  who  has  earned  a 
majority  of  distinctions  in  his  regular 
courses  over  the  years,  but  who  has  an 
off-day  on  his  competency?" 

The  students,  Wagner  believes, 
quickly  realize  the  heavily  weighted  im- 
portance of  the  projects  and  the  compe- 
tency and  tend  to  gravitate  toward 
professors  who  are  easy  graders  in  these 
areas.  "I  also  have  difficulty  equating 
the  final  selection  of  those  who  graduate 
with  distinction  with  those  who  were 
chosen  earlier  on  the  basis  of  their  regu- 
lar class  work  into  honor  societies  such 
as  Tau  Beta  Pi,"  he  continues.  He  opens 
a  couple  of  folders.  "Look  at  the  records 
of  these  two  former  students,"  he  says. 
"Both  graduated  with  distinction."  One 
record  is  notable  for  its  parade  of  ad's 
and  lone  ac  (acceptable).  The  other  is 
notable  for  its  single  ad,  lost  in  a  sea  of 
Ac's.  "Now,"  he  says,  "in  spite  of  the 
'distinction'  which  appears  on  each  di- 
ploma, which  graduate  do  you  think  a 
prospective  employer  would  prefer  to 
hire?" 


When  it  comes  to  projects,  how- 
ever, Wagner  jumps  on  the  Plan  band- 
wagon. "Projects  are  the  best  part  of  the 
Plan,"  he  enthuses.  "They  are  interest- 
ing and  generally  fun.  The  motivated 
students  make  them  very  worthwhile." 
This  year  he  advised  30  students  with 
their  projects.  "This  means  that  I  have 
to  carry  a  lot  of  things  home,  but  I  truly 
enjoy  the  work,  as  well  as  my  associa- 
tion with  the  kids." 

.  A  member  of  Skull  and  the  acs,  Wagner 
has  been  commended  for  "his  26  years 
of  outstanding  leadership  and  devotion 
as  advisor  for  the  aiche  student  chapter 
at  WPI.  Another  certificate  on  his  wall 
recognizes  him  as  "WPI  Teacher  of  the 
Year — 1972."  The  teaching  award  is  not 
surprising.  Bob  Wagner  has  always  had 
an  open-door  policy  in  regard  to  his 
teaching  and  advisory  duties.  In  class, 
he  takes  the  time  to  explain  difficult 
theories  thoroughly,  and  to  answer  any 
lingering  questions.  His  office  door  is 
never  closed.  In  his  busy  schedule,  he 
makes  time  for  students  and  colleagues 
alike. 

There  is  little  doubt  about  how  Bob 
Wagner  feels  about  his  "kids."  He 
speaks  of  them  with  affection  and 
teaches  them  with  dedication.  In  a  nut- 
shell, 'Daddy  Wags'  loves  teaching.  "I 
couldn't  have  picked  a  nicer,  happier 
way  of  life." 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summei  1981  /  IS 


Chet  Inman: 
Not  afraid  to 
talk  up! 


CHESTER  Inman,  '14,  who  ad- 
mits that  he's  "going  on  89," 
lectures  to  student  nurses 
and  medical  personnel  in  Worcester 
area  hospitals. 

Is  it  so  remarkable  that  a  per- 
son of  those  years  is  still  on  the  lec- 
ture circuit?  Is  it  surprising  that  a 
man  of  his  age  should  look  so 
young?  Well,  what  makes  this  al- 
most unbelievable  is  that  this  octo- 
genarian has  spent  a  good  part  of  his 
life  talking  without  benefit  of  a 
voice  box! 

Back  in  1940,  cancer  attacked 
Inman's  vocal  cords,  necessitating 
the  removal  of  both  his  vocal  cords 
and  larynx.  The  operation  saved  his 
life,  but  his  voice  might  have  been 
silenced  forever.  During  his  recuper- 
ation, Inman  decided  that  he 
wanted  to  communicate  more  di- 
rectly than  with  the  note-writing 
that  he  had  to  endure.  He  was  de- 
termined to  speak,  somehow.  He 
drew  strength  from  his  family  phi- 
losophy, "Know  what  you're  up 
against  and  never  give  up." 

Inman  reports  that  his  opera- 
tion and  recuperative  period  took 
several  weeks.  His  diseased  vocal 
cords  and  voice  box  were  removed 
and  a  small  opening  was  left  in  the 
throat  where  air  is  drawn  into  the 
lungs.  A  special  bib  was  used  to 
cover  the  opening  (stoma)  to  pre- 
vent dust  or  water  from  entering. 

Following  the  operation,  he 
used  a  mechanical  aid,  called  a  reed 
larynx,  in  order  to  speak.  The 
gadget  could  be  fitted  into  his 
mouth  and  throat  whenever  he 
needed  to  say  something.  It  had  a 


reed  that  vibrated,  making  a  noise, 
and  his  lips  and  mouth  would  form 
words.  Of  this  device,  Inman  says: 
"It  was  awkward  and  conspicuous, 
of  course,  but  worst  of  all,  it  would 
get  stuck  every  once  in  a  while  and 
fail  me  right  in  the  middle  of  a 
sentence." 

Being  an  engineer,  Inman  set 
out  to  improve  his  gadget.  It  took 
him  a  year  to  design  a  base  plate 
that  wouldn't  lock.  After  that,  he 
got  along  all  right.  Whenever  he 
wanted  to  talk,  he'd  whip  out  the 
aid,  plug  it  in  at  his  throat,  and 
have  his  say.  It  was  a  nuisance,  but 
it  worked. 

For  ten  years,  he  used  his  me- 
chanical aid,  telling  himself  that  he 
was  too  busy  to  leam  to  talk  with- 
out it.  Finally,  just  before  a  trip  to 
Bermuda,  and  with  the  encourage- 
ment of  his  wife  and  friends,  he  de- 
cided to  look  into  a  method  called 
"esophageal  speech." 

He  began  learning  this  non- 
mechanical  method  of  speaking  by 
taking  lessons  with  the  late  Mrs. 
Mary  Doehler  at  the  Massachusetts 
Eye  and  Ear  Infirmary  in  Boston.  A 
speech  and  reading  teacher  who  un- 
derwent a  larynx  operation,  Mrs. 
Doehler  taught  herself  to  speak 
again,  perfected  the  method,  and 
produced  nationwide  guidelines  for 
speech  therapists.  Her  program  still 
continues  in  Boston. 


Learning  to  speak  again  was 
very  frustrating  for  Inman.  Persis- 
tence and  practice  were  the  by- 
words. Although  esophageal  speech 
is  probably  the  most  natural 
method  available  to  one  without  a 
larynx,  it  is  also  the  most  difficult 
to  leam.  It  involves  inhaling  air  into 
the  esophagus  and  then  emitting  it 
in  what  Inman  describes  as 
"burps."  The  walls  of  the  upper 
esophagus  vibrate,  creating  sounds 
which  can,  with  much  practice,  be 
formed  into  words  and  phrases. 

"A  speech  therapist  is  usually 
necessary,"  he  says.  "And  a  laryn- 
gectomee can  more  successfully 
teach  another  laryngectomee,  be- 
cause he's  been  through  it."  Inman, 
a  widower,  used  to  practice  his 
speech  behind  closed  doors  trying  to 
say  "Baaa"  or  "Mary  had  a  little 
lamb." 

His  present  speech  is  strong, 
rather  than  husky,  and  easily  under- 
stood. If  you  listen  closely,  you  can 
hear  the  sigh  of  his  breathing  in  the 
background. 

The  new  method  of  speech  in- 
spired Inman  to  do  things  that  he 
would  never  have  done  otherwise, 
such  as  helping  others  in  the  same 
boat.  "One  of  the  best  things  that 
ever  happened  to  me."  Talking  and 
lecturing,  Inman  is  representative  of 
many  laryngectomees  who  make  up 
the  Worcester  Nu  Voice  Club,  to 


16  /  Summer  1981  /  The  WPI  loumal 


which  he  belongs.  These  extraordi- 
nary men  and  women  help  and  sup- 
port each  other,  or  anyone  like 
them,  who  needs  friendship  and 
help.  They  are  members  of  an  ex- 
clusive group — persons,  who  be- 
cause of  cancer  or  accident,  have 
had  their  voice  boxes  removed. 

In  his  personal  desire  to  help, 
Inman  has  made  a  part-time  career 
of  his  retirement  speaking  to  medi- 
cal personnel.  He's  talked  to  more 
than  1,000  student  nurses,  and  to 
groups  of  over  100  persons,  for  up  to 
two  hoiurs  at  a  time.  He  says,  "peo- 
ple even  30  feet  away  understand 
me,  with  no  microphones." 

Since  completing  a  series  of 
four  lectures  for  student  nurses  at 
Hahnemann  Hospital,  he  is  cutting 
down  on  road  trips.  However,  he 
continues  to  help  individuals  faced 
with  the  same  difficulties  he  has  en- 
countered. He  and  other  members 
of  the  Worcester  Nu  Voice  Club  of- 
fer the  human,  personal  touch  as 
medicine  for  the  emotional  trauma 
suffered  by  laryngectomees.  "We've 
been  there.  We  understand." 

Today,  Chet  himan  counts  his 
blessings,  which  include  four  chil- 
dren, nine  grandchildren,  and  seven- 
teen great-grandchildren.  And  he 
can  look  back  on  a  lifetime  of  ac- 
complishment that  few  can  match. 

Professionally,  he  served  as  a 
partner  in  Pratt  &.  Inman,  Worces- 
ter, hom  1923  to  1946,  having 
joined  the  firm  in  1917.  A  mechani- 
cal engineer,  he  instituted  the  first 
theoretical  metallurgical  course  at 
WPI,  where  he  was  an  instructor  in 
1921-22. 

The  1922  Aftermath  said  of  hi- 
man: "He  knows  the  ins  and  outs  of 
the  heat  treatment  game  from  his 
outside  experiences  in  connection 
with  steel,  and  is  well  able  to  make 
his  course  interesting." 


His  connection  with  WPI  did 
not  end  in  the  classroom.  His  uncle, 
Edward  Moore  (deceased),  graduated 
from  WPI  in  1911;  his  son-in-law, 
Frederick  Swan,  Jr.,  in  1935;  his 
son-in-law.  Prof.  Owen  Kennedy,  Jr. 
in  1945;  and  his  son,  Chester  In- 
man, Jr.  in  1952. 

In  1974,  he  received  the  Her- 
bert F.  Taylor  Award  for  distin- 
guished alumni  service  from  the 
WPI  Alumni  Association.  His  cita- 
tion reads  in  part:  "You  have 
worked  for  the  good  of  your  College 
as  a  concerned  critic,  as  an  officer 
(president)  of  the  Worcester  County 
Chapter  and  as  a  delegate  to  the 
Alumni  Council.  For  almost  a  quar- 
ter of  a  century,  you  managed  the 
investment  program  of  the  Worces- 
ter County  Chapter  which  has  re- 
sulted in  scholarships  for  numerous 
Worcester  County  students.  Your 
concern  for  improving  the  invest- 
ment return  of  Association  funds 
has  been  constant  and  consistent. 
The  investment  policy  of  the  Asso- 
ciation is  the  result  of  your  dedi- 
cated labors.  For  all  this,  we  proudly 
and  gratefully  honor  and  salute 
you." 

Inman,  along  with  Herb  Taylor, 
'12,  and  Alfred  Rankin,  '04,  helped 
establish  the  Alumni  Fund,  in- 
■  augur ated  in  1924.  Also,  he  worked 
tirelessly  for  the  Investment  Com- 
mittee of  the  Alumni  Association 
since  its  inception  in  1973  through 
1976. 

In  1919,  he  assisted  in  the 
founding  of  the  Worcester  chapter  of 
the  American  Society  for  Metals 
(asm),  of  which  he  is  a  charter 
member.  For  35  consecutive  years, 
he  served  on  the  chapter  executive 
committee.  In  1945,  he  was  named 
chairman  emeritus  of  the  Worcester 
chapter,  and  in  1979,  he  received 
his  60-year  membership  plaque. 

He  was  elected  a  fellow  in  the 
ASM  in  1970,  being  one  of  the  first 
200  elected  as  fellows  out  of  a  what 
was  then  a  nationwide  membership 
of  45,000.  The  asm  cited  him  as  "a 
pioneer  in  educational  and  technical 
society  activities  and  in  the  man- 
agement of  metallurgical  business." 


Civic-minded,  Inman  has  been 
busy  with  Kiwanis  and  church 
work,  as  well  as  with  his  most  im- 
portant "retirement"  duties  as  a 
speaker  and  teacher  in  the  cause  of 
the  laryngectomee.  For  many  years, 
he  has  been  active  with  the  Cancer 
Society,  living  proof  that  cancer  can 
be  conquered.  He  has  taken  his 
message  of  hope  to  numerous 
public  forums. 

Through  all  the  difficult  times, 
he  has  followed  the  philosophy  of 
his  grandfather  whose  last  words 
were:  "This  is  the  way  of  life.  Do 
not  go  into  mourning.  Continue  on 
as  usual." 

Chet  Inman,  although  visited 
by  adversity,  has  continued  on  as 
usual.  He  doesn't  know  how  to 
give  up. 

For  50  years  he  has  kept  the  fol- 
lowing oath  and  prayer  of 
Maimonides  in  his  desk  drawer  and 
refers  to  it  often:  "Grant  me  the  op- 
portunity always  to  correct  what  I 
have  acquired,  always  to  extend  its 
domain,  for  knowledge  is  immense 
and  man  can  enrich  himself  daily 
with  new  requirements.  Today  he 
can  discover  his  errors  of  yesterday 
and  tomorrow  he  may  obtain  a  new 
light  on  what  he  thinks  himself 
sure  of  today." 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1981/17 


REUNION  1981 


1926's  55th  Reunion 


The  Class  of  1926  observed  its  55  th  re- 
union on  June  5th  and  6th  with  festivi- 
ties held  on  the  campus.  On  Friday 
evening,  dinner  was  served  in  the  dining 
room  of  the  Wedge  in  Morgan  Hall  with 
19  classmates,  17  wives,  and  one  guest 
in  attendance.  A  social  hour  preceded 
the  dinner,  which  featured  roast  beef  or 
swordfish  as  entrees. 

Following  the  meal.  President 
Harold  A.  Baines  conducted  a  brief  busi- 
ness session  when  new  officers  were 
elected  to  serve  for  the  next  five  years. 
They  are:  James  A.  Robertson,  presi- 
dent; Archie  J.  Home,  vice  president; 
and  Raymond  H.  Bjork,  secretary.  Emer- 
son A.  Wiggin  was  the  nominating  com- 
mittee chairman. 


Harold  and  others  brought  us  news 
about  members  of  the  class  with  whom 
they  had  personal  contacts.  We  were 
saddened  to  learn  of  the  loss  of  29  class- 
mates since  our  50th  reunion  in  1976. 
Get  well  cards  were  signed  to  be  sent  to 
Phillip  Delphos  and  Howard  Thomson, 
who  had  planned  to  come  but  couldn't 
because  of  illness. 

Archie  was  chairman  of  the  reunion 
committee  composed  of  Worcester 
alumni.  On  Saturday,  we  joined  with 
other  alumni  for  various  events  sched- 
uled during  the  morning  before  the 
campus  parade,  followed  by  luncheon  in 
the  Harrington  Auditorium. 

Present  on  Friday  night  were:  Doris 


and  Harold  Baines;  Christine  and  Ray- 
mond Bjork;  Sally  and  Donald  Hager; 
Phyllis  and  Charles  Hardy;  Elsa  and 
Fred  Hedin;  Marion  and  Archie  Home; 
Chandler  Jones;  Jane  and  Harold  Kallan- 
der;  and  Marion  and  Carleton  Maylott, 
and  his  sister,  Alice  Terrill. 

Also,  Helen  and  Charles  Moran; 
Alice  and  John  Morse;  Beatrice  and  Lin- 
wood  Page;  Betty  and  Armand  Paquette; 
Miriam  and  Arthur  Parsons;  and  Ethel 
and  Lawrence  Peterson.  Also,  Helen  and 
James  Robertson;  Thelma  and  Francis 
Snow;  Mabbott  Steele;  and  Beatrice  and 
Emerson  Wiggin.  On  Saturday,  Doris 
and  Carl  Bormer  joined  the  group. 

—Raymond  H.  Bjork,  Secretary 


1 93  Ts  50th  Reunion 


The  soth  Reunion  of  the  Class  of  1931 
provided  a  wonderful  three  days  for  the 
41  class  members  and  31  wives  (and 
lady  friends)  who  attended.  It  was  a  real 
fun  time,  as  the  years  were  forgotten 
and  we  became  "kids"  on  the  Hill 
again.  The  Sheraton-Lincoln  provided 
excellent  facilities  for  reunion  headquar- 
ters and  for  the  class  banquet  on  Friday 
evening,  June  5th.  The  hospitality  room 
there  seemed  as  a  great  mixer. 

We  are  most  grateful  to  President 
and  Mrs.  Cranch  for  their  part  in  mak- 
ing the  reunion  a  great  success.  The  re- 
ception at  their  home  on  Thursday 
evening  and  the  welcome  dinner  party 
that  evening  at  the  Higgins  House  will 
long  be  remembered   President  Cranch 
awarded  fifty-year  diplomas  after  the 
dinner  These  will  be  cherished  for  our 
lifetims  along  with  our  1931  diplomas. 


We  are  deeply  indebted  to  Ted  Coe 
and  his  lady,  Mary  Jane,  for  the  striking 
and  unique  uniforms  each  of  us  wore 
from  moming  to  night  for  the  three 
days.  Hopefully,  our  maroon  and  gray 
pork  pie  hats  will  become  traditional  at 
Tech. 

Ted  also  was  master  of  ceremonies 
for  the  banquet.  All  kinds  of  prizes  were 
awarded,  several  of  which  ended  in  ties. 
One  of  the  knots  between  Cliff  Berquist 
and  Phil  Pierce  (both  of  whom  drove 
from  Califomia)  was  broken  when  sharp 
Phil  announced  he  lived  on  the  east  side 
of  the  street. 

Ed  Odium  (with  the  help  of  his 
Mary)  put  together  a  superb  fiftieth  an- 
niversary booklet  which  records  class 
details  over  the  years,  with  pictures  of 
many  of  our  reunions  and  reminders  of 
oiu  days  on  the  Hill. 


We  enjoyed  greatly  the  general  re- 
union parade  on  Saturday.  We  only  wish 
that  the  gypsy  moth  caterpillars  had  not 
driven  the  luncheon  from  the  Higgins 
House  lawn  for  then  the  parade  would 
have  been  longer.  Harrington  Audito- 
rium provided  an  excellent  substitute 
location,  however.  The  spectators  ap- 
peared to  enjoy  our  maroon  and  gray 
uniforms.  We  discerned  their  surprise, 
however,  at  the  levity  and  youthful 
spirit  of  our  group. 

Bob  Barrett,  long  term  chairman  of 
the  50-year  gift  committee,  made  the 
presentation  at  the  general  reunion 
luncheon  on  Saturday.  When  the  gift 
committee  was  originally  organized  at 
our  35th  reunion  in  1966,  the  motto 
was  $31, ()()()  for  '31 .  As  we  approached 
our  5()th,  and  considering  the  amoimts 
pledged,  our  motto  was  changed  to 
$31,000  and  $.50,000  for  '31  in  '81.  We 


18  /  Summer  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


^^ 


V  . 


'.i'df 


••••gJA.- 


-~T|  4  •'»•*' 


not  only  reached  this  new  goal,  but  Bob 
announced  that  the  class  gift  amounted 
to  $192,000.  This  amount  was  realized 
through  contributions  hom  many  of  our 
class  members  and  through  the  generos- 
ity and  love  for  our  alma  mater  of  one  of 
our  recently  deceased  class  members 
and  the  widows  of  other  well- 
remembered  active  members  of  the 
class. 

We  were  saddened  when  we  learned 
through  our  telethon  of  May  3rd,  that 
several  of  our  classmates  could  not  at- 
tend the  reunion  because  of  their  inca- 
pacities or  the  Ulnesses  of  their  wives. 
Our  thoughts  and  best  wishes  were  with 
all  of  them  during  the  reunion. 

Those  attending  were: 

Mr.  Idof  Anderson,  Jr.  (Idof ) 
Mr.  Frank  H.  Andrews*  and  Mary  Faith 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robert  E.  Barrett*  (Bob/ 
Noriene) 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Edward  J.  Bayon*  (Ed/Ruth) 
Mr.  Clifford  A.  Berquist  (Cliff} 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Benjamin  R.  Chadwick  (Ben/ 
Marion) 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  F.  Dudley  Chaffee  (Dud/Jean) 
Mr.  Joseph  D.  Chelauski 
Mr.  Edward  S.  Coe,  Jr.*  (Ted/Mary  Jane  But- 
tles) 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Everett  D.  Collins  (Everett/ 
Arline) 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Albert  M.  Demont*  (Al/ 
Phyllis) 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  F.  Devaney  (John/Kathryn) 


Mr.  and  Mrs.  Warren  N.  Doubleday  (Bun/ 

Sigrid) 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Frederick  A.  Farrar*  (Fred/ 

Lillian) 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  E.  Fletcher  (John/Arlene) 

Mr.  Milton  D.  Gleason  (Dex) 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  A.  Wallace  Gove  (Wally/Mary) 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Raymond  H.  Guenther  (Ray/ 

Hilda) 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Edwin  V.  Haskell  (Ed/Barbara) 

Mr.  John  H.  Hinchliffe,  Jr.  (John) 

Mr.  Ralph  Hodkinson  (Ralph) 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Everett  E.  Johnson  (Everett/ 

Betty) 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Charles  A.  Kennedy  (Charlie/ 

Marion) 

Mr.  Trescott  B.  Larchar  (Tres) 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Otis  E.  Mace  (Otie/Eleanor) 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Gustav  E.  Mangsen  (Gus/ 

Bemice) 

Mr.  Richard  G.  Marden  (Dick) 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Roger  W  Mills  (Roger/Marian) 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Edward  J.  Odium*  (Ed/Mary) 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  J.  Philip  Pierce  (Phil/Irma) 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Carl  E.  Rylander  (Carl/Mary) 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Carl  F.  Sage  (Carl/Valerie) 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  George  W  Smith  (George/ 

Evelyn) 

Mr.  Michael  C.  Sodano  (Mike) 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Hurant  Tashjian  (Hurant/ 

Diane) 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robert  D.  Taylor*  (Bob/Marion) 

Mr.  A.  Francis  Townsend*  (Fran) 


Mr.  and  Mrs.  Oliver  R.  Underbill,  Jr.*  (Red/ 

Patricia) 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Charles  B.  Walker  (Charlie/ 

Lucille) 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robert  S.  Williamson  (Bob/ 

Ormell) 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Charles  E.  Woodward  (Chick/ 

Elizabeth) 

Mr.  Trueman  L.  Sanderson  (Sandy) 

Although  John  Tuthill  and  Russ  Libbey 
had  planned  on  being  with  us,  illnesses 
prevented  their  attendance. 

It  was  a  great  reunion.  We  are  look- 
ing forward  to  our  next. 

—Ed  Bayon,  Class  Secretary 
Reunion  Committee  Chairman 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1981/19 


Counterclockwise,  beginning  at 
the  bottom  of  this  page:  Highlights 
of  Reunion,  featuring  the  Grand  Re- 
union Parade  of  the  classes  around 
the  WPI  quadrangle  to  the  Reunion 
Luncheon  in  Harrington  Audito- 
rium. The  original  route  would 
have  ended  up  on  the  lawn  of  Hig- 
gins  House,  but  we  were  driven  in- 
doors this  year  by  the  gypsy  moth 
caterpillars.  The  parade  was  led  by 
the  pipes  and  drums  of  the  Spring- 
field Kilty  Band  and  by  (what  else?) 
a  goat  wearing  the  WPI  banner  and 
colors!  (Goat  and  goat-handlers 
courtesy  of  Prof.  James  Demetry.) 


20  /  Summer  1981  /  The  WPI  foumaJ 


r 

The  WPIfoumal  /  Summer  1981  /  21 


1 941  's  40th  Reunion 


All  70  class  members  who  attended 
made  our  40th  a  wonderhil  success.  No 
distance  of  place  or  lapse  of  time  les- 
sened the  friendships  renewed  back  at 
Tech.  Many  traveled  far.  The  happy 
faces  shown  in  our  class  picture  attest  to 
the  fim  that  we  had  over  the  gala  three 
days  in  early  Jime.  Some  of  the  early  ar- 
rivals (Bud  &.  Irene  Boyd,  Texas;  Bill  & 
Shirley  Simmons,  California;  Bud  & 
Nita  Roberton,  Spokane,  Washington; 
and  Stan  and  Peggy  Majka,  California) 
enjoyed  a  bit  of  New  England  again  prior 
to  reimion  time. 

Some  35  classmates,  most  with 
their  wives,  enlivened  two  dinner  ban- 
quets, dancing,  receptions,  limcheons, 
parades,  and  hospitality-suite  time  that 
carried  into  the  wee  hours  of  the  morn- 
ing following  afternoon  and  late  evening 
gatherings,  as  time  permitted.  Time 
flew  much  too  fast,  for  there  was  much 
to  do  and  more  to  talk  about. 

4rers  really  performed,  parading 
with  colorful  umbrellas  and  handy 
ladies'  tote  bags  behind  a  Kilty  band  and 
live  goats  to  the  all-alumni  reimion 
luncheon,  where  a  record  turnout  of 
more  than  700  WPI  alumni,  with  their 
families  and  friends,  gathered  for  the 
celebration  and  festivities.  The  Class  of 
4rs  contribution  to  the  College  was 
$100,000,  presented  most  warmly  by 
Jim  McGinnis,  who  worked  hard  along 
with  others  to  ensure  it.  We  were  proud 
of  our  own  Len  White,  who  received  the 
Herbert  F.  Taylor  Award  for  Outstanding 
Service  to  WPI. 

Our  '41  paraphernalia,  favors, 
prizes,  gifts,  and  more  were  well  re- 
ceived. Anne  Bcllos  and  Peggy  Majka 
won  prizes  at  golf  competing  with  wives 
from  other  classes.  Husbands  Al  Bellos 
and  Stan  Majka  should  have  won,  judg- 
ing from  the  scores  wc  heard  they  had. 

Marianne  and  Prof.  Charlie 
McNulty  were  our  guests.  He  brought 
the  class  up-to-date  at  our  banquet, 
speaking  primarily  of  activities  in  sports 
and  changes  brought  about  with  female 
sports  on  campus. 

Everyone's  participation  throughout 
the  entire  weekend  was  something  spe- 
cial, and  it  appeared  that  everyone  had  a 
real  g(K)d  time.  The  many  who  were  un- 
able to  attend  were  sorely  missed,  and 
yet  we  had  the  time  to  pass  along  all  the 
messages  and  best  wishes  received  by 
telegram,  letter,  and  phone  calls  from 
the  numerous  friends  wc  heard  from. 


What  a  memorable  weekend  you  imfor- 
timately  missed!  Your  chance  will  come 
again,  though.  Another  five  years  or  ten 
and  we  expect  to  see  everyone  there. 

We  owe  thanks  to  Bill  Bowne  of 
Schenectady,  N.Y.,  for  the  200  feet  of 
8mm  movies  taken  during  imdergradu- 
ate  years  on  campus  and  shovm  several 
times  during  reunion. 

We  thought  of  those  no  longer  with 
us.  The  list  is  far  too  long. 

Your  committee  is  grateful  to  all  of 
the  following  who  made  such  a  fine  ef- 
fort to  attend,  making  our  40th  the  great 
weekend  it  was.  Space  does  not  permit 
our  mentioning  the  most  interesting 
bits  of  information  we  would  like  to  in- 
clude about  each  and  every  one  of  you. 
It  was  great  to  see  so  many  friends  enjoy 
so  much  over  so  short  but  so  eventful  a 
weekend,  and  we  do  hope  you  all  keep 
in  touch. 

—F.  Douglas  McKeown 

1941  Attendees: 

Andy  Anderson,  Worcester 

Al  &  Anne  Bellos,  Glens  Falls,  N.Y. 

Bud  &.  Irene  Boyd,  Corpus  Christi,  Texas 

Jake  &  Dorothy  Boyle,  Shawnee  Mission, 

Kansas 

Irv  &.  Ruth  Breger,  Silver  Spring,  Maryland 


Alex  Davidson,  Fair  Haven,  N.J. 
Ray  &.  Marie  Delisle,  Lunenberg,  Mass. 
Ken  &.  Barbara  Dresser,  Burlington,  Vt. 
Lloyd  &  Marcia  Greenwood,  Sun  City  West, 
Arizona 

Gordon  &.  Claire  Gumey,  Holden,  Mass. 
John  &.  Ann  Haran,  Needham,  Mass. 
Les  &.  Pat  Harding,  Atlanta,  Georgia 
Harold  &  Ruth  Holland,  New  London,  N.H. 
Vic  &  Vickie  Kolesh,  Holden,  Mass. 
Mac  and  Peg  MacLeod,  Centerville,  Mass. 
Stan  &.  Peggy  Majka,  Walnut  Creek,  Califor- 
nia 

Jim  &.  Ruth  McGinnis,  Cohasset,  Mass. 
Cout  &  Ros  McKeown,  Worcester 
Hank  &.  Eileen  Medwin,  Pebble  Beach,  Cali- 
fornia 

Henry  Palley,  Worcester 
George  &  Cleo  Peck,  Needham,  Mass. 
Rich  &  Eleanor  Ramsdell,  Culver  City,  Cali- 
fornia 

Bud  &  Nita  Roberton,  Spokane,  Washington 
Ed  &.  Jane  Ryan,  Alexandria,  Virginia 
Fred  &  Harriet  Sherwin,  Hampton,  N.H. 
Bill  &.  Shirley  Simmons,  San  Rafael,  Califor- 
nia 

Chas  (cosine)  &.  Mary  Smith,  Omaha,  Ne- 
braska 

Sid  &  Rhoda  Soloway,  Norwalk,  Conn. 
Len  &  Arm  White,  Worcester 
Bill  &.  Esther  Wiley,  Waltham,  Mass. 
Bob  &.  Jeanne  Wilson,  Longmeadow,  Mass. 
John  &  Pauline  Wolkonowicz,  Worcester 
Paul  CaruUo,  Torrington,  Coim. 

Your  Committee: 

Andy  Anderson 

Ray  Delisle 

Vic  Kolesh 

Len  White 

John  Wolkonowicz 

and  Doug  McKeown,  chairman. 


22  /  Summer  19H1  /  The  WPI  journal 


Honors  and  Awards  at  Reunion 

At  right:  Walter  J.  Bank,  '46,  receives 
the  Herbert  F.  Taylor  Award  for  service 
to  WPI. 

Below:  Len  White,  '41,  shown  with  Carl 
Backstrom,  '30,  chairman  of  the  Cita- 
tions Committee,  receives  his  Taylor 
Award. 

At  light:  Paul  S.  Morgan,  chairman  of 
the  Board  of  Trustees,  presents  the  Ro- 
bert H.  Goddard  Award  for  professional 
achievement  to  John  Metzger,  '40,  and 
Harold  S.  Black,  '21,  as  WPI  President 
Edmund  T.  Cranch  looks  on. 
At  right,  below:  Edwin  B.  Coghlin,  Jr., 
'56,  and  Harry  W.  Teimey,  Jr.,  56,  accept 
their  Taylor  Awards  with  characteristic 
enthusiasm. 


At  left:  Incoming  Alumni  Association  President  Peter  H. 
Horstmarm,  '55,  is  welcomed  to  office  and  congratulated  by 
his  predecessor,  John  H.  McCabe,  '68. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1981/23 


1956's  25th  Reunion 


The  true  success  of  the  weekend  be- 
longs to  each  classmate  who  made  that 
Uttle  extra  effon  to  participate.  For  the 
first  time  in  WPI  Reunion  History,  the 
25th  Reunion  Class  earned  the  prized 
Attendance  Cup,  for  the  largest  percent- 
age of  members  attending.  To  the  Com- 
mittee, to  the  Alumni  Office,  to  the 
Class  Officers,  to  the  great  Class  of 
1956,  heany  congratulations. 

The  festivities  began  with  Dave  and 
Jill  Pratt  and  Bob  and  Norma  Allen  tee- 
ing off  late  Friday  morning  at  Worcester 
Country  Club.  The  festivities  ended 
with  many  classmates  reluctant  to  de- 
part Sunday  morning,  as  Joe  Wahl  and 
Dick  McBride  completed  their  challenge 
tennis  match  under  the  cloudless  skies 
which  made  the  weekend  weather  per- 
fect for  our  occasion.  In  between  the 
sporting  events,  friendships  were  re- 
newed, actions  good  and  bad  were  re- 
called, and  the  Class  Yearbook 
thoroughly  perused.  Some  of  us  have 
changed,  and  yet  others  were  instantly 
recognizable  as  we  walked  through  the 
doors  of  the  Hospitality  Suite  or  into 
Morgan  Hall's  registration  area. 

Arnold  Hall,  our  termis  captain, 
said  he  had  not  had  a  termis  racket  in 
his  hand  for  sometime  but  he  certainly 
managed  to  exhibit  his  old  form  as  he 
led  the  tennis  players  onto  the  court. 
Hank  Nowick's  Chowder  hour  was  an 
outstanding  success.  For  over  eight 
months  the  Planning  Committee  had 
kidded  Hank  about  his  chowder  hour, 
but  Hank  turned  the  tables  on  us  by 
serving  very  delicious  chowder  along 
with  cocktails  and  snacks  at  the  Hospi- 
tality Suite.  The  Hospitality  Suite  in  the 
Fuller  Residence  was  so  crowded,  in 
fact,  that  we  spilled  out  onto  Schussler 
Road  and  the  surrounding  porches  and 
terraces.  The  accommodations  for  our 
class  were  excellent.  Many  continued 
visiting  into  the  wee  hours  after  a  deli- 
cious clambake,  including  clams,  lob- 
ster, com  on  the  cob,  and  all  the  fixings. 

The  entertainment,  after  dinner  and 
in  the  Sanford  Riley  Pub,  was  provided 
by  the  Ragtime  Rowdies,  a  banjo  band. 
At  various  times,  classmates  with  a  mu- 
sical flare  went  up  to  the  bandstand  and 
participated.  Memories  of  fraternity  par- 
tics  and  class  events,  where  our  talented 
musicians  made  great  music,  returned 
as  they  played. 

Saturday  morning  some  slept  in, 
while  others  were  up  bright  and  early  to 
return  to  the  Hospitality  Suite,  to  do 


some  more  visiting,  or  to  tour  the 
campus  and  learn  all  about  the  WPI 
plan.  The  Reunion  Limcheon  was  very 
well  attended.  Highlights  of  the  limch- 
eon came  in  two  parts,  the  first  as  WPI 
recognized,  with  the  Herbert  Taylor 
Award  for  service  to  the  College  and  the 
Association,  Harry  Tenney  and  Ted 
Coghlin,  and  then  when  Jack  McHugh 
and  Ted  Coghlin  were  called  to  the  stage 
to  accept  from  Steve  Hebert  the  WPI 
Class  of  1917  silver  loving  cup,  includ- 
ing champagne,  for  the  greatest  degree 
of  reimion  attendance — 46  percent. 

President  and  Mrs.  Cranch  hosted 
1956  at  a  cocktail  reception  in  the  presi- 
dent's home  on  Saturday  evening.  We 
then  attended  the  Class  Dinner  Dance 
at  Worcester  Covmtry  Club,  on  the  ter- 
race under  the  tent.  Bemie  Danti,  the 
class  officers,  Hank  Nowick,  Jack 
McHugh,  Paul  Schoonmaker  and  Jerry 
Dyer  along  with  the  other  committee 
members,  really  made  the  Dirmer 
Dance  outstanding.  The  meal  was  su- 
perb, the  speeches  short,  the  prizes  and 
recognitions  to  classmates  very  appro- 
priate. Everyone  there  had  a  great  time. 


The  goat's  head  spent  the  weekend 
with  the  class.  Satiu-day  night  it  disap- 
peared. Thanks  to  some  good  detective 
work.  Jack  McHugh  thinks  that  he 
knows  where  the  goat's  head  went.  You 
might  be  interested  to  know  that  after 
the  Class  of  56  took  part  in  goat's  head 
competition,  the  goat's  head  was 
eliminated  from  campus  life.  A  tradition 
started  by  the  Class  of  93  was  finished 
during  the  Class  of  56's  years  at  WPI.  It 
has  been  suggested  that  maybe  a  tradi- 
tion missirig  for  25  years  should  be  re- 
vived. 

The  25th  Yearbook,  given  to  all 
classmates  who  came,  will  be  mailed  to 
everyone  who  was  unable  to  make  the 
reimion.  As  you  look  through  the  year- 
book, you  get  to  know  your  classmates 
and  their  families  just  a  little  better.  To 
those  who  did  not  forward  profiles,  we 
certainly  would  welcome  hearing  from 
you.  The  Reunion  Committee  and  class 
officers  were  voted  to  continue  in  office. 
Maybe  the  attendance  cup  should  be  re- 
tired by  the  Class  of  1956,  by 
continuing  to  have  outstanding  atten- 
dance at  future  Reunions. 


24  /  Summer  1981  /  The  WPI  loumal 


This  reunion  did  not  just  happen. 
Many  people  devoted  hours  of  time  and 
energy  to  make  it  a  success.  The  Hospi- 
tality Committee,  chaired  by  Marcia 
Tenney,  was  given  great  assistance  by 
Bob  and  Jean  Farrar,  Jim  and  Dot  Prih;i, 
Win  and  Dotty  Spofford,  Roger  Tancrell, 
and  the  25  classmates  and  spouses  who 
acted  as  hosts  and  hostesses  during  var- 
ious times  that  the  Hospitality  Suite 
was  open.  The  special  Class  Gifts  Com- 
mittee was  ably  charred  by  George 
Strom. 

The  class  gift  was  outstanding.  The 
leadership  in  giving  provided  by  Bob  and 
Janet  Foisie  and  all  of  the  other  contrib- 
utors meant  that  nearly  70  percent  of 
the  class  took  part  in  making  a  gift  of 
over  $87,000.  The  money  will  be  used 
to  help  WPI  remain  in  the  forefront  of 
technology,  by  providing  space,  facil- 
ities, and  renovations  to  the  Computer- 
vision  CAD/CAM  Laboratories  which 
will  be  located  in  Higgins.  The  Compu- 
tervision  firm  gave  $300,000  of  equip- 
ment, which  will  be  greatly  enhanced 
by  the  use  of  our  class  gift  to  provide  the 
peripheral  equipment  and  facilities 


which  will  enable  students  to  properly 
and  effectively  use  the  equipment. 

Sunday  morning,  tired,  weary  yet 
sparkling  faces  greeted  one  another  as 
we  departed  for  home.  Many  classmates 
who  had  only  planned  on  coming  for  a 
short  time  stayed  through  Saturday  eve- 
ning, and  the  Worcester  area  classmates 
were  very  much  in  evidence  Svmday 
morning  at  the  brunch,  to  say  their  last 
goodbyes. 

We  had  a  super  weekend.  The  com- 
ments about  the  activities  were  all  ex- 
cellent. Next  reimion  we  will  plan  an 
extra  day,  in  order  that  those  who  can 
get  away  early  will  have  just  that  much 
more  time  to  enjoy  being  with  their 
classmates. 

A  list  of  all  who  attended  the  re- 
union is  appended  to  this  report.  Some 
of  our  classmates  unfortunately  are 
missing.  If  any  one  knows  the  where- 
abouts off  the  missing  classmates,  Steve 
Hebert  or  the  Committee  would  greatly 
appreciate  hearing.  Three  of  our 
classmates— Seth  Ballard,  Tony  Chur- 
buck,  and  Les  Keffe — have  passed  away. 
Use  the  updated  directory  of  classmate 


addresses  and  information  to  keep  in 
contact.  We  hope  to  see  even  better  at- 
tendance at  our  next  reunion.  Mean- 
while, to  you  and  your  family,  from  all 
at  WPI,  best  wishes  for  a  great  decade  of 
the  1980's. 

—Ted  Coghlin 

1956  25th  Reunion  Attendance 

Mr.  &.  Mrs.  Alan  M.  Adamson 

Mr.  Raymond  K.  Agar 

Mr.  &.  Mrs.  Robert  S.  Allen 

Mr.  &.  Mrs.  Christian  S.  Baehrecke 

Mr.  Richard  N.  Bazinet 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  David  S.  Becker 

Mr.  Philip  R  Bedard 

Mr.  &.  Mrs.  Ernest  Bernstein 

Mr.  Edward  A.  Blakeslee 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Howard  H.  Brown 

Mr.  &.  Mrs.  Edwin  B.  Coghlin,  Jr. 

Mr.  &.  Mrs.  Christopher  R.  Collins 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Joseph  J.  Concordia 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Bernard  R.  Danti 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Henry  J.  Dumas,  Jr. 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Gerald  T  Dyer 

Mr.  &.  Mrs.  Robert  H.  Farrar 

Mr.  &.  Mrs.  Robert  A  Foisie 

Mr.  James  W.  Green 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Michael  G.  Gordon 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Charles  E.  Gunn 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Raymond  R.  Hagglund 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Richard  G.  Hajec 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Arnold  M.  Hall 

Mr.  Allan  C.  Hamilton,  Jr. 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Thomas  W.  Hansen 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Charles  R.  Healy 

Mr.  &.  Mrs.  Robert  R.  Heath 

Mr.  &.  Mrs.  Lawrence  B.  Horrigan,  Jr. 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  William  A.  Johnson 

Mr.  &.  Mrs.  James  C.  Kubik 

Mr.  Sk  Mrs.  Alan  G.  Larsson 

Mr.  &.  Mrs.  Fred  H.  Lohrey 

Mr.  &.  Mrs.  Vilho  A.  Lucander 

Mr.  &.  Mrs.  Raymond  J.  Lussiei 

Mr.  &.  Mrs.  Robert  W.  Matchett 

Mr.  Richard  J.  McBride 

Mr.  &.  Mrs.  John  M.  McHugh 

Mr.  &.  Mrs.  Henry  W.  Nowick 

Mr.  &.  Mrs.  Joseph  F.  Paparella 

Mr.  &.  Mrs.  Bruce  F.  Paul 

Mr.  William  P.  Peterson 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Halbert  E.  Pierce  lU 

Mr.  &.  Mrs.  David  A.  Pratt 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  James  K.  Prifti 

Mr.  Robert  Robinson 

Mr.  &.  Mrs.  John  H.  Rogers,  Jr. 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Richard  L.  Rotelli 

Rev.  &.  Mrs.  Paul  D.  Schoonmaker 

Mr.  Roy  A.  Seaberg,  Jr. 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Harold  F.  Smith 

Mr.  &.  Mrs.  Winslow  M.  Spofford 

Mr.  &.  Mrs.  Peter  J.  Stephens 

Mr.  &.  Mrs.  George  P.  Strom 

Mr.  &.  Mrs.  Charles  A.  Sullivan,  Jr. 

Dr.  Roger  H.  Tancrell 

Mr.  &.  Mrs.  Harry  W.  Tenney,  Jr. 

Mr.  &.  Mrs.  William  C.  Van  Keuren 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Joseph  G.  Wahl 

Mr.  Edward  R.  Wiot 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summei  1981/25 


1903 


Henry  Potter  of  West  Dennis,  Mass.  cele- 
brated his  100th  birthday  on  Feb.  22,  1981. 
He  was  honored  by  seventeen  friends  and  rel- 
atives at  a  party  held  at  his  daughter's  home. 
Mr.  Potter  retired  in  1949  following  35  years 
with  the  Hartford  Insurance  Group.  In  1938, 
he  served  as  master  of  Washington  Lodge  No. 
70  in  Windsor,  Conn.  He  has  two  sons,  a 
daughter,  seven  grandchildren,  and  three 
great-grandchildren . 


I9I2 


F.  Holman  Waring  suffered  a  stroke  early  in 
lanuary  after  shoveling  snow.  His  speech, 
right  arm,  hand,  and  leg  were  affected,  but  he 
is  now  able  to  get  around  using  a  walker. 


1915 


Correction:  In  the  spring  issue,  the  late  Prof. 
Carleton  Haigis  was  inadvertently  referred  to 
as  Prof  "Haig." 


I9I6 


Robert  Lamb  was  the  only  member  of  the 
class  to  attend  the  dual  funeral  service  for 
Harold  Nutt  and  his  wife  last  fall. 


1930 


A  few  classmates  returned  for  our  51st  and 
we  had  a  good  time.  Hope  we'll  see  more 
next  year  (June  51. 

Bill  Davidson  is  spending  the  summer  of 

'81  in  Alaska Ed  Delano  says  he  is 

getting  in  shape  for  the  Social  Security  set's 
non-stop  cross  country'  cycling  relay  sched- 
uled for  fime.Bob  HoUick  writes  from  Cam- 
bridge, England:  "Here  I'm  continuing  my 
education  and  seeing  cousins  and  other  rela- 
tives for  the  first  time.  It's  been  a  great  trip 
and  I'll  return  directly  to  San  Francisco." 

George  Marston  says:  "Now  it's  time  for 
our  51st  reunion.  Never  had  time  to  feel  old 
at  our  50th,  especially  after  talking  with  Ed 
Delano."   ....  Jim  McLoughlin  hopes  to 
make  one  of  our  reunions.  (Let's  plan  on  the 
55th,  Jim.  I   ....   Ed  Milde  reports  he  "en- 
joyed the  50th,"  and  probably  would  have  at- 
tended the  51st  if  he  lived  nearer  WPI. 
....   Dan  O'Grady's  son,  Dan,  Jr.,  is  a 
member  of  the  Class  of  1961,  which  cele- 
brated its  20th  reunion  this  year. 

Fred  Peters  writes  that  his  wife  passed 

away  on  April  21st Pete  Topelian 

had  a  hip  replacement  in  February.  "Still 
working  at  Boeing  and  enjoying  every  minute 
of  it." 

The  following  wanted  to  come  back,  but 
couldn't  make  it:  Ralph  Gilbert,  Norm  But- 
terfield,  John  Conley,  Christ  Orphanides,  Bill 
Locke,  Paul  Reynolds,  Carm  Greco,  Stan  Pil- 
lion, Henry  Pearson,  John  Wells,  and  Ray 
Lewis. 

—Coil  BackstTom,  Class  Secretary 


reunion:  JUNE  3-6,  1982 

1932 

George  Barks  v^ites  from  Oceanside,  Calif. 

that  he  has  retired  twice,  "but  will  start 
something  again."  He  and  Barbara  were  mar- 
ried in  April  of  1980. 


1934 


Carl  Hammarstrom  was  recently  elected  as  a 
director  of  the  National  Society  of  Profes- 
sional Surveyors,  a  part  of  the  American  Con- 
gress on  Surveying  and  Mapping. 

George  Kalista  just  returned  from  seven 
weeks  in  Florida.  He  is  retired  from  his  old 
position  after  ^7  years. 


1935 


26  /  Summer  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


Richard  Merriam  has  retired  as  controller  of 
the  I'l.iiit  Iiigincering  Division  at  the  Stanley 

Works,  New  Britain,  ("onn Harvey 

White  has  been  a  property  risk  manager  for 
Risk  Consultants,  Inc.  since  last  November 


1938 


Currently,  Theodore  Andreopoulos  is  a  con- 
sultant on  aeronautical  structures  for  the 
New  Japan  Aircraft  Co.,  Ltd.,  Tokyo,  Japan. 
'A  new  career  step." 

Robert  Day  retired  as  chief  project  engi- 
neer at  Industrial  Risk  Insurers  on  April  29th 
following  more  than  42  years  of  service  with 
the  company.  He  started  at  mj  in  1938  after 
graduating  from  WPI  as  an  electrical  engineer. 
During  his  career,  he  was  a  resident  engineer 
in  Albany,  N.Y.  and  Allentown,  Pa.;  chief  en- 
gineer of  the  eastern  regional  office  in  the 
1960s;  and  a  member  of  the  mi  national  staff 
since  1976.  Headquartered  in  Hartford, 
Conn.,  nu  is  a  leading  international  imder- 
v^iter  of  commercial  property  insurance. 

Amet  Powell  recently  returned  from  a 
business  and  pleasure  trip  to  Japan  and  Aus- 
tralia. "It  added  up  to  a  trip  aroimd  the  world 
with  other  major  stops  in  Hong  Kong, 
Greece,  and  Egypt." 


1939 


Donald  Houser  has  retired  from  usm  Corp. 
....   John  Peavey  retired  in  February  after 
35  years  as  a  process  engineer  with  John  H. 
Breck/Shulton,  a  division  of  American 
Cyanamid  in  West  Springfield.  In  March,  he 
moved  into  a  new  seven-room  brick  ranch  on 
a  mountainside  in  Hendersonville,  N.C.  The 
basement  is  big  enough  for  him  to  set  up 
power  tools  in  a  woodworking  shop.  He 
v^Tites:  "Hendersonville  is  a  very  active  com- 
munity. Good  climate.  2000  feet  above  sea 
level."  Peavey  is  a  retired  lieutenant  colonel 
in  the  usar. 


1940 


Howard  Freeman,  president  and  board  chair- 
man of  the  Jamesbury  Corp.,  was  awarded  an 
honorary  degree  by  Central  New  England 
College,  Worcester,  at  commencement  exer- 
cises in  June. 

Edward  Goodrich  writes  that  he  plans  to 

retire  at  the  end  of  the  year Bob 

Higgs  is  now  manager  of  contract  services  at 
Joy  Manufacturing  Company,  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 

Presently,  Benedict  Kaveckas  serves  as  a 
fixture  design  engineer  for  printed  circuit 
board  automatic  component  insertion  equip- 
ment at  Wang  Labs,  Tewksbury,  Mass. 

Norman  La  Liberte  retired  last  July  after 
33  years  with  the  American  Optical  Co., 
where  he  was  a  senior  research  chemist.  "I 
have  been  enjoying  the  lazy  life  ever  since  in 
Woodstock,  Conn."  At  AC),  he  was  actively 
involved  in  the  development  of  the  plastic 
lens  that  is  common  and  useful  today.  In  re- 
tirement, he  is  a  tennis  buff  and  likes  playing 
at  home  as  well  as  during  winter  vacations  in 
Florida   He  and  his  wife  have  three  daughters 
and  four  grandsons. 


Chapin  Cutler 
receives 
IEEE  Edison 
Medal 


The  accomplishments  of  Thomas  Alva 
Edison  inspired  the  creation  of  the  Edi- 
son Medal,  which  has  been  awarded  this 
year  by  the  Institute  of  Electrical  and 
Electronics  Engineers  to  C.  Chapin 
Cutler,  '37. 

The  Edison  Medal  has  a  distin- 
guished heritage,  the  first  one  created  in 
1904  to  commemorate  25  years  of  elec- 
tric lighting  following  the  invention  of 
the  electric  light  bulb  by  Thomas  Edi- 
son. According  to  the  founders  of  the 
award,  "The  Edison  Medal  .... 
should  serve  as  an  honorable  incentive 
to  scientists,  engineers,  and  artisans  to 
maintain  by  their  works  the  high  stan- 
dard of  accomplishment  set  by  the  illus- 
trious man  whose  name  and  feats  shall 
live  while  human  intelligence  continues 
to  inhabit  the  world." 

Since  1909,  68  people  have  been  se- 
lected by  their  contemporaries  to 
receive  this  award,  which  consists  of  a 
small  replica  of  the  Edison  Medal,  a  cer- 
tificate, and  $10,000,  in  addition  to  the 
medal  itself. 

This  year,  Chapin  Cutler  received 
the  Edison  Medal  "in  recognition  of  his 
creative  contributions  to  microwave 
electronics,  space  communications, 
and  technology  of  communication 
systems." 

Except  for  two  short  academic  sab- 
baticals, he  was  engaged  in  research  at 
Bell  Laboratories  in  New  Jersey  from 
1937  until  1979.  His  research  included 
contributions  to  short  wave  radio  tech- 
nology for  overseas  communication,  mi- 
crowave radar  antennas,  microwave 
amplifiers,  satellite  communication, 
digital  signal  coding,  and  the  Pic- 
turephone®.  He  holds  over  70  patents, 
including  fundamental  patents  on  dif- 
ferential pulse  code  modulation.  In 
some  circles,  he  is  known  as  the  inven- 
tor of  the  Cutler  rear  feed  horn  for  para- 
bolic antennas,  a  device  that  was  used 
widely  in  both  theaters  of  World  War  H. 

Cutler  is  less  well  known  as  the  in- 
ventor of  the  corrugated  wave  guide; 
cormgated  antenna  feed  systems;  and  of 
a  variety  of  multimode  antenna  feeds, 
because  his  work  in  these  areas  was  not 


declassified  by  the  U.S.  government  for 
many  years.  In  his  work,  he  received  in- 
spiration and  guidance  from  his  associa- 
tion with  John  Schelleng,  who  had 
contributed  so  much  to  the  imderstand- 
ing  of  short  wave  radio  propagation.  He 
is  particularly  grateful  to  Professor 
Emeritus  Hobart  Newell  of  WPI  for 
stimulating  his  interest  in  electronics 
and  radio,  both  in  the  classroom  and 
outside. 

Following  World  War  n,  he  worked 
on  microwave  amplifiers:  first  on  cir- 
cuits using  close-spaced  triodes;  and 
then  on  traveling  wave  tubes.  His  close 
association  with  Rudolf  Kompfner,  who 
invented  the  traveling  wave  tube,  and 
with  John  Pierce,  who  contributed 
strongly  to  the  theory  of  its  operation 
and  who  invented  the  Pierce  electron 
gun,  was  an  important  factor  in  Cutler's 
success. 

In  1957,  with  the  advent  of  Sput- 
nik, his  interests  turned  to  the  possibili- 
ties of  satellite  radio  relay  systems.  He 
shared  in  the  management,  design,  and 
operation  of  Project  Echo,  the  passive 
satellite  experiment  (1969)  and  of  the 
Telstar  active  satellite  (1962). 

In  1952,  he  was  named  head  of  the 
Electronics  Research  Department  at  Bell 
Labs,  where  he  was  responsible  for  work 
on  microwave  electron  tubes.  Later,  he 
was  appointed  assistant  director  of  the 
Electronics  and  Radio  Research  Labora- 
bory;  then  director  of  Electronics  Sys-  . 
terns  Research;  and  finally,  director  of 
Electronic  and  Computer  Systems  Re- 
search. In  1979,  he  retired  from  Bell  to 
become  professor  of  applied  physics  at 
Stanford  University. 

His  two  sabbaticals  were  spent  at 
the  University  of  California  at  Berkeley 
(1957)  and  at  Stanford  (1975).  He  was 
associate  editor  of  the  Transactions  on 
Electron  Devices  for  many  years,  and 
editor  of  IEEE  Spectrum  for  two  years. 
In  1975,  he  received  an  honorary  doctor 
of  engineering  degree  from  WPI.  He  is  a 
fellow  of  the  ieee  and  was  chairman  of 
the  Awards  Board  of  the  Institute  in 
1975-1976.  He  is  a  fellow  of  Sigma  Xi, 
and  a  member  of  the  National  Academy 


of  Engineering,  and  the  National  Acad- 
emy of  Sciences. 

In  spite  of  the  demands  of  a  busy 
career.  Cutler  has  always  found  time  to 
enjoy  hiking  and  moimtaineering.  Other 
interests  are  canoeing,  gardening,  and 
skiing,  and  working  with  gadgets.  He 
has  held  most  of  the  local  posts  of  re- 
sponsibility in  the  Christian  Science 
Chtorch,  and  has  served  WPI  as  a  class 
agent,  and  his  community  as  a  Boy 
Scout  volunteer. 

Presently,  he  and  his  wife,  Virginia, 
reside  in  Palo  Alto,  Calif.,  home  base  for 
another  of  his  pastimes,  bicycling.  This 
year  he  bicycled  100  miles  on  the  Coast 
Highway,  all  the  way  from  Carmel  Val- 
ley to  San  Simeon! 

"We  are  loving  our  new  life  in  Cali- 
fornia," he  reports,  "although  it  is  not 
really  relaxing."  But  then,  it  should  be 
obvious  that  Chapin  Cutler  prefers  an 
active  rather  than  a  passive  life,  both  in- 
side and  outside  the  laboratory. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1981  /  27 


I94I 


Dt  George  Cowan,  former  associate  director 
for  chemistrv',  earth  and  life  sciences,  has 
been  named  a  senior  fellow  at  Los  Alamos 
National  Laboratory  in  New  Mexico.  In  1965, 
he  was  the  recipient  of  an  E.  O.  Lawrence 
Memorial  Award  for  "meritorious  contribu- 
tions in  the  field  of  atomic  energy'."  He  is  an 
authority  on  applying  radiochemistry  tech- 
niques to  bomb  debris  for  weapon  diagnosis. 
Also,  he  was  one  of  the  pioneers  in  using  nu- 
clear explosives  as  a  neutron  source  for  scien- 
tific experiments,  and  he  played  a  key  role  in 
the  first  atomic  bomb  project.  In  1945,  he 
joined  the  laboratory'  for  one  year  and  re- 
turned to  stay  in  1949,  progressing  from  a 
staff  member  in  the  radiochemistry  group  to 
his  current  position.  As  a  fellow,  Cowan  will 
be  free  to  devote  a  large  portion  of  his  time  to 
research  topics  of  his  choice.  He  will  also  be 
available  to  assist  and  advise  others  on  se- 
lected research  projects,  thus  allowing  the  sci- 
entific commimity  to  reap  the  benefits  of  his 
expenise.  He  holds  a  doctor  of  science  degree 
in  chemistry  from  the  Carnegie  Institute  of 
Technology. 

Graham  Douglass  holds  the  position  of 
manager  of  electric  utilities  at  Pinehurst, 
Inc.,  Pinehurst,  N.C.  He  is  a  retired  colonel 
in  the  Marines. 


reunion:  (une  3-6,  1982 
1942 

|ohn  Bartlett  has  been  named  district  sales 
manager  for  the  New  England  area  by  Preci- 
sion Kidd  Steel  Co.  The  former  general  man- 
ager of  New  England  High  Carbon  Wire 
Corp.,  Millbury,  Mass.,  he  will  now  be  in 
charge  of  the  Pennsylvania  company's  sales 
of  cold  drawn  and  cold  finished  carbon,  alloy 
and  tool  steels.  He  attended  Becker  Jimior 
College  and  received  a  bsme  degree  from  WPI. 


1945 


William  Densmore  was  recently  appointed  as 
senior  vice  president  of  engineering  and  infor- 
mation systems  at  Norton  Company,  Worces- 
ter For  the  past  two  years,  he  has  been 
Norton's  vice  president  for  abrasive  opera- 
tions in  the  US.  and  Canada  In  his  new 
post,  he  will  supervise  the  company's  corpo- 
rate engineering  and  construction  services, 
manufacturing  standards,  computer  systems 
and  services,  and  purchasing  and  transporta- 
tion Also,  he  will  support  continuing  im- 
provements in  productivity  and  efficiency  in 
all  aspects  of  Norton  operations,  and  will  be- 
come a  member  of  Norton's  Corporate  Man- 
agement Committee  A  graduate  of  WPI's 
SchfMil  of  industrial  Management,  he  received 
the  Albert  |   Schwieger  Award  for  outstanding 
achievement  in  1976  He  is  a  registered  pro- 
fessional engineer  in  Massachusetts. 


Densmore  joined  Norton  in  1946  and 
held  several  industrial  engineering  positions 
before  being  named  director  of  engineering 
and  construction  services  in  1961.  He  was 
elected  a  Nonon  vice  president  and  became 
general  manager  of  its  Industrial  Ceramics 
Division  in  1965  and  general  manager  of  the 
Grinding  Wheel  Division  in  1971  before  being 
named  to  his  current  position  in  1979.  A  di- 
rector of  the  Worcester  Heritage  Preservation 
Society,  he  has  also  been  a  member  of  the 
Massachusetts  State  Board  of  Education  and  a 
director  of  the  Worcester  Area  Chamber  of 
Commerce. 


1946 


Currently,  Richard  Anschutz  holds  the  post  of 
accoimt  executive  with  E.F.  Hutton  &.  Co.  He 
is  located  in  Tequesta,  Fla.  For  many  years  he 
was  with  Pratt  &.  Whitney  Aircraft,  East 
Hanford,  Conn.,  where  he  rose  to  executive 
assistant  to  the  division  president.  He  serves 
as  a  trustee  of  Florida  Institute  of  Technology, 
as  a  director  of  the  Civic  Opera  of  the  Palm 
Beaches  and  of  the  Greater  West  Palm  Beach 
Chamber  of  Commerce,  and  as  a  vice  presi- 
dent of  the  National  Defense  Transportation 
Association.  Formerly,  he  was  vice  mayor  of 
Jupiter  Inlet  Colony  in  Florida 
Bob  Appenzeller  uTites:  "Beautiful  wife,  two 
beautiful  kids,  a  beautiful  mutt  named 
"Chester",  and  a  beautiful  mortgage.  Kids 
will  be  getting  married  this  summer  taking 
mutt,  but  leaving  wife  and  mortgage."  Bob  is 
president  of  a  100-man  company  which  engi- 
neers, designs,  and  manufactures  special  ma- 
chinery and  does  business  world  wide.  He 
enjoys  his  job,  golf,  fishing,  and  flying. 

Ted  Balaska's  children  are  settling  in 
Colorado  and  Utah,  so  he  and  "Bobbie"  are 
looking  for  a  western  retirement  site.  During 
his  career,  he  has  been  with  Hartford  Electric 
Co.,  Long  Island  Lighting,  and  Phelps  Dodge. 
In  1971,  he  joined  Bishop  Electric,  where  he 
is  now  director  of  engineering  services.  He  is 
very  active  with  the  ieee,  serving  on  several 
committees.  Besides  golf  and  swimming, 
travel  takes  up  about  75  percent  of  his  time. 

Presently,  Waher  Bank  is  an  alumni  term 
trustee  on  the  WPI  Board  of  Trustees  and  na- 
tional chairman  of  WPI  Alumni  Admissions. 
From  1973  to  1975,  he  was  president  of  the 
Alumni  Association.  In  January,  he  became 
director  of  marketing  at  DCS  Corp., 
Arlington,  Va.,  where  he  is  concerned  with 
R&D  in  electro-optical  systems  (infrared,  la- 
sers, etc.)  Previously,  he  was  with  Systems 
Consultants,  Inc.,  Control  Data  Corp.,  Tri- 
dent Laboratories,  and  Sylvania  Electric. 


Surf  fishing,  woodworking,  and  garden- 
ing are  Bernard  Beisecker's  favorite  hobbies. 
He  ser\-es  as  director  of  manufacturing  for  In- 
dustrial Fasteners  on  Long  Island.  Earlier,  he 
had  been  with  U.S.  Steel,  Booz  Allen  &  Ham- 
ilton, and  Central  Screw.  Last  year,  after 
nearly  five  years  in  Kentucky,  the  family 
moved  back  East. 

For  21  years.  Gushing  Bozenhard  contin- 
ued in  the  construction  business.  In  1979,  he 
sold  the  building  in  Worcester  "for  the  good 
life  of  early  retirement."  Since  his  "retire- 
ment," he's  become  so  involved  in  construc- 
tion consulting  that  he's  tr>'ing  to  figure  out 
how  to  retire  again.  Two  of  his  hobbies  are  es- 
pecially unique:  collecting  rare  books  (which 
he  rebinds  in  leather  and  cloth);  and  plans  to 
take  up  bee-keeping.  He  still  sails  the  same 
Pearson  35  out  of  Marion,  Mass.  "Have  made 
five  or  six  ocean  trips,  to  and  from  Bermuda, 
Virgins  to  Bermuda,  etc.  A  different  kind  of 
sailing  and  challenging  to  mind  and  body." 


1948 


In  January,  Malcolm  Gordon  retired  from  the 
Chemical  Systems  Lab.,  Aberdeen  Proving 
Groimd,  Md.  Presently,  he  is  an  independent 
technical  consultant  to  several  industrial 
companies  which  have  contracts  with  various 
organizations  on  Aberdeen  Proving  Ground. 
Most  of  the  work  involves  engineering  anal- 
yses of  the  technical  productivity  and  direc- 
tion of  R*iD  programs. 


1950 


George  Bama  was  recently  promoted  to  vice 
president  of  Government  Simulation  Systems 
at  Singer-Link  Co.  He  has  responsibility  for 
operations  in  Simnyvale,  Calif.,  Houston, 
Tex.,  and  Binghamton,  N.Y. 

Francis  Kearney  has  been  tr;msferred  by 
Monsanto  from  plant  manager  of  the  Bircham 
Bend  plant  in  Springfield,  Mass.  to  director  of 
environmental  operations  for  Monsanto  Plas- 
tics and  Resins  Co.  in  St.  Louis,  Mo 

Frank  Pease  continues  to  work  for  Stautfer 
Chemical  Company  as  manager  of  purchasing 
for  the  corporate  engineering  department  in 
Dobbs  Ferry,  N.Y. 


1951 


Bruce  Bailey  writes  that  over  the  past  twenty 
years  he  has  logged  about  70, ()()()  miles  bicy- 
cling, "much  of  it  commuting  between 
Milton  and  Camhridge."  He  also  enjoys 
tennis  and  singing  in  the  local  Episcopal 
Church  choir.  Both  he  ami  his  wife,  Mary,  are 
active  in  church  work.  One  of  his  three  .sons, 
Brownell,  received  a  degree  in  urban  and  re- 
gional planning  from  WPI  in  1980  after  re- 


28  /  Summer  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


ceiving  an  ab  in  fine  arts  from  Union  College 
and  teaching  in  France. 

After  two  years  at  nasa's  Langley  Labora- 
tory, Bailey  spent  six  very  interesting  years 
working  in  cryogenics  with  Arthur  D.  Little, 
Inc.,  where  he  had  the  opportunity  to  co- 
author and  present  to  the  American  Vacuum 
Society  the  first  paper  to  have  the  term  "cry- 
opumping"  in  its  title.  ("We  had  used  a  he- 
lium refrigerator  to  freeze  nitrogen  at  20 
degrees  K  in  near-vacuum  to  drive  a  hyper- 
sonic wind  tunnel  requiring  very  little 
power.")  In  1959-60,  he  was  assistant  to  the 
director  of  research  and  development  at  Air 
Products  &.  Chemicals  developing  in-house 
research  programs  for  the  company.  In  1960, 
he  joined  the  staff  of  the  Laboratory  for  Nu- 
clear Science  (lns)  at  mit  as  chief  mechanical 
engineer,  and  he's  been  there  ever  since.  Dur- 
ing that  time,  he  was  also  a  research  fellow  in 
mechanical  engineering  at  Harvard;  devel- 
oped and  taught  the  first  graduate  courses  in 
cryogenic  engineering  at  Northeastern  Uni- 
versity; managed  the  mechanical  engineering 
for  MIT-initiated  projects  at  Stanford  Linear 
Accelerator  Center  in  Palo  Alto,  Argorme  and 
Fermi  National  Accelerator  Laboratories  out- 
side Chicago,  Brookhaven  National  Labora- 
tory on  Long  Island,  N.Y.,  the  European 
nuclear  research  laboratory  (cern)  at  Geneva, 
and  the  German  Electron  Synchrotron  (desy) 
in  Hamburg,  as  well  as  mit's  linear  accelera- 
tor laboratory  in  Middleton,  Mass.  The  mit 
experiment  at  Brookhaven  from  1972  to  1975 
won  for  its  leader,  Prof.  S.  C.  C.  Ting,  the 
1976  Nobel  Prize  in  physics. 

Throughout  his  first  18  years  at  lns, 
Bailey  enjoyed  a  deeply  rewarding  collabora- 
tion with  Cy  Tourtellotte,  '40,  who  retired 
from  MIT  in  1978  after  more  than  30  years  of 
leadership  in  the  design-drafting  area  of  the 
laboratory.  In  1975,  Bailey  received  his  msme 
from  Northeastern. 

Although  he  says  that  many  of  the  WPI 
faculty  are  memorable  to  him.  Prof.  K.  G. 
Merriam  was  the  most  memorable  of  all.  He 
writes:  "He  truly  inspired  me  to  follow  a  ca- 
reer in  engineering-research  which  turned  out 
to  be  deeply  satisfying." 

Walter  Dennen  serves  as  manager  of 
commimications  and  information  at  RCA  Na- 
val Systems  Information  Department  in 

Moorestown,  N.J John  George  has 

joined  Bernard  E.  Lynch  &  Associates  in 

Worcester Carl  Johansson  says  that 

he's  back  in  Connecticut  after  six  years  in 
California  and  Chicago.  His  daughter,  Greta, 
graduated  from  Stanford  on  Father's  Day  last 
year.  Daughter  Lisa  has  been  married  for  two 
years.  Presently,  Johansson  is  doing  pharma- 
ceutical plant  design  with  Crawford  &.  Rus- 
sell. He  recalls  that  Bob  Weiss,  WPI's  head 
football  coach,  "was  my  high  school's  foot- 
ball coach." 

Vartkes  Sohigian  is  now  with  Wang  Lab- 
oratories in  Lowell,  Mass.,  where  he  is  in  cor- 
porate persoimel  administration.  He 
continues  to  teach  a  course  in  WPI's  evening 

program Bernard  Ziobrowski  is  an 

RfiiX)  chemist  at  Ciba-Geigy  in  Glens  Falls, 
N.Y. 


reunion:  JUNE  3-6,  1982 
1952 

Donald  Adams  has  been  elected  senior  vice 
president  of  Allendale  Insurance,  Johnston, 
R.I.  He  joined  the  Factory  Mutual  System  in 
1952  as  a  loss  prevention  engineer.  During  his 
Allendale  career,  he  advanced  to  hold  a  num- 
ber of  management  positions,  including  vice 
president-manager  of  Canadian  operations, 
group  vice  president  of  regional  operations, 
and  his  most  recent  position  of  group  vice 
president  of  administration.  Allendale  Insur- 
ance is  an  international  organization  spe- 
cializing in  loss  control  engineering  and 
industrial  property  insurance. 

Stanley  Berman  was  recently  named  vice 
president  for  Asia  and  Pacific  in  Norton  Com- 
pany's Abrasives  Group,  Worcester.  Formerly, 
he  was  vice  president  of  abrasives  manufac- 
turing. The  Abrasives  Group  has  been  re- 
structured into  four  major  operating  units  to 
strengthen  worldwide  coordination  and  plan- 
ning. 

Charles  Reichert  has  had  his  own  con- 
sulting business,  Rikert  Engineering  Co.,  for 
three  years.  He  writes:  "I  enjoy  the  varied 
work  that  I  get  involved  with."  The  Reicherts 
have  five  children  and  three  grandchildren. 


1953 


Formerly  with  nrl  in  Washington,  D.C.,  Wil- 
lard  Bascom,  who  has  a  pho  from  Catholic 
University,  is  now  manager  of  composite  re- 
search at  Hercules,  Inc.  in  Magna,  Utah. 

Dave  Estey  writes  that  he's  still  with  ge 
in  the  Washington,  D.C.  area,  but  now  serves 
as  district  sales  manager,  Washington-Data 
Communications . 

In  April,  Ray  Giguere  became  a  grandfa- 
ther for  the  first  time,  when  his  granddaugh- 
ter was  bom. 

Dave  Hathaway  sends  word  from  Lexing- 
ton, Mass.  He  completed  21  years  in  the 
Navy  with  some  pleasant  memories:  Taipei, 
Norfolk,  Va.,  and  even  L.A.  Less  pleasant 
memories  are  associated  with  Guantanamo 
Bay,  Cuba,  and  Viet  Nam.  He's  now  a  hospi- 
tal engineer  in  charge  of  the  physical  plant  of 
a  200-bed  hospital.  Son  Stephen,  23,  is  finish- 
ing the  Co-op  program  at  Northeastern. 
Daughter  Jeanne  is  a  top  student  at  unh  and 
is  probably  headed  for  medical  school.  Dave 
sounds  like  a  very  proud  father.  The  Hatha- 
ways  are  a  "gunkholing  family — using  Dark 
Harbor,  Maine,  as  our  home  port"  for  excur- 
sions in  their  Mariner.  More  recently,  they've 
had  the  boat  out  to  Long  Island  and  to  Mar- 
tha's Vineyard  and  from  Kittery  to  the  Isle  of 
Shoals.  Dave  was  headed  for  Worcester  in 
Jime  for  a  fairly  unique  event — a  grand  re- 
imion  of  choirs  over  the  past  30  to  40  years  at 
the  Baptist  Church. 

Dr.  Mike  Hoechstetter  has  been  with 
Ashland  Chemical  in  Columbus,  Ohio  since 
1974.  His  two  oldest  children.  Rick  and 
Sharon,  are  in  college,  whole  Lisa  is  in  high 
school.  Most  of  the  family  is  actively  in- 
volved in  camping,  skiing,  and  sailing.  The 
family  "yacht"  is  a  4.5  meter  Super  Porpoise. 


A  typical  camping/sailing  outing  involves 
towing  the  boat  behind  an  Airstream  trailer 
which  is  towed  behind  the  Olds,  to  a  lake  on 
the  Pennsylvania  border.  The  rig  is  17  meters 
from  bumper  to  stem. 

Bob  Menard  writes  from  Richmond,  Va., 
that  he  is  still  with  the  corporate  sales  group 
of  Nalco  Chemical.  His  job  is  calling  on  the 
executive  level  of  the  paper  industry — lots  of 
travel  and  entertainment  in  which  his  wife, 
Betty,  is  involved  much  of  the  time.  Both 
children  attend  vpi  in  Blacksburg.  Mason  is  a 
junior  in  chemical  engineering  and  daughter, 
Kelly,  is  a  freshman  in  the  business  school. 
Both  were  ranked  tennis  players  in  Virginia 
before  college,  but  studies  have  been  more  de- 
manding, so  they  have  played  only  intramu- 
ral tennis  at  vpi.  Bob  and  Betty,  with  the 
youngsters  gone  much  of  the  time,  have 
moved  into  a  condominium  in  Richmond  and 
have  concluded  that  was  a  good  decision. 
Their  main  hobby  is  also  tennis,  so  "bring 
your  racquet  when  you  come  through  town." 

Don  Post  is  a  good  deal  closer — in  Au- 
burn, Mass.,  although  just  back  from  a  Ha- 
waii vacation,  "our  favorite  comer  of  the 
world!"  Don  is  director  of  marketing  for  the 
Plastics  Division  of  American  Hoechst  Corp. 
(formerly  Foster  Grant).  At  the  same  time, 
Sylvia  and  the  three  children  have  developed 
a  livestock  farm  where  they  raise  purebred 
Polled  Herefords.  Oldest  son.  Bob,  is  married, 
has  an  mba  from  Northwestern,  and  is  in  Illi- 
nois with  Kraft  Foods.  Gary  graduated  from 
the  University  of  Massachusetts  and  is  in 
management  training  with  Consumer  Value 
Stores,  while  raising  feeder  pigs  on  the  farm. 
Cindy  is  a  student  at  Assumption,  and  has 
her  own  flock  of  cheviot  sheep  at  the  farm. 

Alexander  Skopetz,  msee,  reports  that  he 
is  now  classified  as  an  aerospace  electronics 
systems  engineer  with  Reliability  and  Stan- 
dards at  nasa/gsfc  in  Greenbelt,  Md.  Alex, 
who  has  been  with  nasa  since  '63,  worked  on 
the  Aerobee  rocket  and  orbiting  solar  observa- 
tory before  moving  into  the  standards  office. 
He  and  his  wife  Louise  stay  busy  with  house, 
yard,  car,  church  and  commimity  chores  and 
with  two  dogs.  ("Well  dispositioned  and  do- 
mesticated. Know  anyone  who'd  like  two 
nice  dogs?") 

Paul  Snyder  sent  his  business  card  from 
Tokyo,  Japan.  He's  a  "venture  technical  man- 
ager" for  Mobil.  He  writes  that  they  should 
be  in  Japan  "imtil  about  this  time  next  year 
when  our  project  should  move  to  Yanbu, 
Saudi  Arabia  on  the  Red  Sea."  Mobil  is  a  50/ 
50  partner  with  Saudi  Arabia  on  a  250,000 
barrel  a  day  refinery  to  be  constructed  along 
with  several  other  major  petrochemical  facil- 
ities out  of  the  desert  just  east  of  the  fishing 
village  of  Yanbu.  "Our  three  children  are  out 
in  the  world  making  their  own  living.  One  is 
a  lawyer,  one  a  chemist,  and  another  a  copy- 
writer. This  appeared  an  ideal  time  in  our  life 
to  take  on  an  assignment  of  this  type.  I  ex- 
pect to  be  involved  in  the  construction,  train- 
ing of  Saudis,  start-up  and  operation  of  the 
refinery  for  the  next  three  or  four  years.  We 
are  enjoying  Japan  while  we  are  here,  learning 
why  they  are  so  productive  and  competitive 
as  well  as  enjoying  their  imbelievable  friendli- 
ness and  gracious  hospitality." 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1981  /  29 


Tauno  Wuorinen  has  sent  a  moving  ac- 
count of  his  career,  his  family,  and  his  retire- 
ment. Tauno  worked,  since  graduation  at 
CambridgeElectric  Light,  taking  early  retire- 
ment at  age  61  in  1978.  He  still  drops  iii  to 
visit  the  place,  and  is  gratified  to  see  systems 
he  introduced  being  appreciated.  He  married 
Aino  while  at  WPI.  Aino  was  a  dedicated 
evangelist,  speaking  in  smaller  Pentecostal 
churches  across  the  U.S.  and  Canada,  and  pe- 
riodically in  Finland.  She  was  taken  by  cancer 
in  1965.  In  a  subsequent  trip  to  Finland, 
Tauno  met  and  in  three  days  became  engaged 
to  his  "new"  wife,  (since  1967),  Kristi.  Kristi 
and  Taimo  have  been  blessed  with  three 
handsome  children,  Erika,  12,  Anna,  11,  and 
Philip,  9.  The  family  is  all  involved  in  church 
activities,  and  with  retirement,  Tauno  enjoys 
the  less  structured  pace.  "I  usually  walk  from 
the  post  office,  and  if  a  mockingbird  sere- 
nades me,  I  stop,  listen,  and  thank  another  of 
God's  wonderful  creatures  for  allowing  me  to 
share  its  joy." 

Mike  Zucker  is  now  a  senior  engineer  at 
IBM  in  Austin,  Texas.  He  writes:  "We  moved 
to  Texas  in  October  of  1980.  Love  it  here.  I 
staned  flying  single-engine  land  planes  in 
1977,  and  am  currently  a  commercial  pilot, 
instrument  rated." 


1955 


1954 


In  March,  Owen  Allen  started  a  new  job  as 
project  manager  in  the  rail  transportation 
group  at  Sanders  &  Thomas,  Inc.  in  Potts- 
town,  Pa. 

Ouri  Cannil  is  director  of  sales  and  plan- 
ning for  the  electronics  division  of  Israel  Air- 
craft Industries,  Ltd.,  Israel.  He  and  Devora 

have  four  children Harry  Mirick 

now  serves  as  European  comtroller  of  field 
service  manufacturing  for  Digital  Equipment 
Corp.  in  the  Netherlands,  a  three-year  assign- 
ment. He  holds  an  accoimting  degree  from 
Franklin  &  Marshall  College. 

Dr.  Werner  Neupert,  o.ss-i  mission  scien- 
tist at  Goddard  Space  Flight  Center,  Green- 
belt,  Md.,  edited  Office  of  Space  Sciences- 1 
Experiment  Investigation  Descriptions.  He 
has  long  been  concerned  with  shuttle  pay- 
loads  integration  and  the  rocket  experiment 
project. 

In  February,  Richard  Olson,  professor  of 
mathematics  at  WPI  and  scholastic  advisor 
for  Alpha  Chi  Rho,  was  honored  by  the 
brothers  on  the  occasion  of  the  2Sth  anniver- 
sary of  his  initiation  into  the  fraternity.  Two 
years  ago,  as  faculty  advisor  for  the  former  lo- 
cal fraternity.  Delta  Sigma  Tau,  he  spear- 
headed the  local  group's  joining  with  the  na- 
tional fraternity.  Alpha  Chi  Rho.  The  national 
secretary  of  the  fraternity  was  a  guest  at  the 
recognition  dinner  at  which  Ollie  received  a 
commemorative  plaque. 


lames  Clampett  is  employed  as  manager  of 
process  engineering  at  Fluor  E&C  in  Irvine, 
Calif. 

Art  Rudman  has  taken  a  new  post  as 
football  coach  at  Madison  High  School  in 
Madison,  Me.  Previously  he  coached  at 
Cheverus  High  School  in  Portland,  at  Rock- 
land High  School,  North  Yarmouth  Academy, 
Millbrook  (N.Y.)  High  School  and  at  Worces- 
ter Academy,  where  for  five  years  he  also 
coached  track  and  wrestling  and  taught  math- 
ematics. Earlier,  he  served  in  the  Army  (avia- 
tion) and  was  a  flight  tester  at  Sikorsky 
Aircraft  in  Connecticut.  Last  August  the  Rud- 
mans  purchased  "The  Elms,"  a  boarding 
home  for  the  elderly  in  North  Anson,  Me. 
One  of  the  Rudman  children,  Carl,  and  his 
wife,  help  operate  the  home.  Daughter  Karen 
is  finishing  her  junior  year  at  Ithaca  College 
in  New  York.  Daughter  Pam  is  in  Augusta, 
where  her  brother.  Bill,  also  lives  and  works. 


1956 


Donald  Behringer  was  re-elected  to  a  three- 
year  term  on  the  Ashbiunham  (Mass.|  Mu- 
nicipal Light  Board  in  April.  He  is  a  senior 
engineer  at  GE  in  Fitchburg,  and  has  been 
with  the  company  since  1956.  He  is  a  regis- 
tered professional  engineer.  The  Behringers 
have  five  children. 

John  Derby  has  been  appointed  vice  pres- 
ident of  operations  of  StanChem,  Inc.  in  East 
Berlin,  Conn.  Previously,  he  was  with  Air 
Products  and  Chemicals,  Inc.,  Allentown, 
Pa.,  where  he  directed  overall  efforts  in  mar- 
keting, sales,  manufacturing,  and  research 
and  development  in  two  major  business 
areas.  He  also  worked  in  the  production,  mar- 
keting and  operations  fields  for  A.E.  Staley 
Manufacturing  Company,  the  Borden  Chemi- 
cal Company,  and  U.S.  Rubber  Company.  He 
has  an  mba  from  Northeastern  and  belongs  to 
the  American  Institute  of  Chemical  Engi- 
neers. Other  activities  include  the  Jaycees 
and  the  Commimity  Chest  Fimd  Drive.  Stan- 
Chem manufactures  coatings  and  polymers 
for  the  industrial  trade.  The  firm  includes 
three  divisions:  Albi  that  produces  fire  retar- 
dant  paints  and  fireproofing  coating  systems; 
Designed  Products  that  produces  paints  and 
coatings  for  New  England  manufacturers;  and 
Polymers  that  produces  water-based  polymers 
for  the  paint,  paper,  textile  and  adhesives 
industries. 

David  Gilda  holds  the  post  of  manager  of 
resident  engineering  at  GE  in  Allentown,  Pa. 
He  and  Justine  have  two  children  and  live  in 

Emmaus Larry  Horrigan  has  been 

named  vice  president  of  fossil  power  plant 
construction  by  Houston  Lighting  &  Power 
Company  in  Texas  In  1978,  he  joined  HL&.P 
after  working  20  years  for  Ebasco  Services, 
Inc.,  of  New  York  City.  He  had  managed 
power  plant  constrtiction  for  Ebasco,  includ- 
ing a  number  of  HL&.P  projects  After  gradu- 
ating from  WPI  in  1956,  he  served  for  a  time 
with  the  Army  ("orps  of  Engineers.  Presently, 


he  is  a  member  of  the  Houston  Business 
Roimdtable.  With  over  one  million  cus- 
tomers, HL&P  is  the  sixth  largest  electric 
utility  in  the  nation  in  terms  of  electricity 
sales. 

Donald  Olsen  spoke  on  the  subject: 
'Conversion  to  Coal,  A  Topic  of  Interest  to 
All"  at  the  Amherst  (Mass.|  Commimity  Fo- 
rum in  May.  A  generation  mechanical  engi- 
neer supervisor,  he  has  been  with  Northeast 
Utilities  for  12  years.  Cim-ently,  he  is  respon- 
sible for  managing  the  company's  efforts  to 
modify  generating  plants  to  use  coal,  rather 
than  oil  for  fuel. 


reunion:  JUNE  3-6, 1982 

1957 

Robert  Galligan  was  recently  honored  by  the 
National  Conference  of  Christians  and  Jews 
for  outstanding  leadership  in  human  relations 
and  community  service  in  Des  Moines,  Iowa. 
He  is  vice  president  of  Gibbs-Cook  Equip- 
ment Co.,  president  of  the  Dowling-St.  Jo- 
seph Board  of  Education,  and  a  trustee  of  the 
Catholic  Diocese  of  Des  Moines.  In  addition, 
he  is  a  director  at  the  Mercy  Hospital  Medical 
Center,  the  Central  Iowa  Health  Association, 
and  the  Des  Moines  Area  Hospital  Consor- 
tium. A  board  member  of  the  National  Con- 
ference of  Christians  and  Jews,  Galligan  also 
is  a  vice  chairman  of  the  Diocesan  Commit- 
tee on  Parish  Coimcils,  president  of  the  Em- 
bassy Club  board,  and  a  sponsor  in  the 
Vietnamese  Refugee  Resettlement  Program. 
He  holds  a  master's  degree  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Coimecticut. 


1959 


Robert  Allen  has  been  promoted  to  captain  in 
the  U.S.  Navy  and  reassigned  to  the  staff  of 
the  Chief  of  Naval  Operations  in  Washington, 
D.C. 

Robert  Basil  is  president  of  Basil  Co., 
Inc.,  Milford,  Conn.  He  and  Sandra  have  four 

children Wilfrid  Houde  has  been 

named  general  manager  of  the  personal  com- 
puter systems  division  of  Apple  Computer, 
Inc.  Previously,  he  was  director  of  distribu- 
tion and  service  operations.  In  1979,  he  joined 
Apple  after  15  years  of  management  experi- 
ence in  engineering,  marketing  and  opera- 
tions with  Hewlett-Packard,  Inc.  Also,  he  had 
worked  for  the  Bell  System  in  New  Jersey. 

Philip  Peirce  serves  as  quality  control 
manager  for  the  Worcester  Group,  Worcester, 
Mass.  The  Peirces,  who  have  two  children, 

reside  in  Brookfield Ed  Saulnier 

writes  that  he  is  still  with  ibm  in  the  Worces- 
ter area,  where  he  serves  as  a  senior  systems 
engineer  in  the  Data  Processing  Division. 


30  /  Summer  198}  /  The  WPI  Journal 


Gordon  Sigman,  Jr.  has  joined  Norden 
Systems  as  vice  president  of  systems  and 
technology.  Previously,  he  v^as  deputy  direc- 
tor for  advanced  technology  at  the  Defense 
Advanced  Research  Projects  Agency  in 
Arlington,  Va.  At  Norden,  a  subsidiary  of  utc 
in  Norwalk,  Conn.,  Sigman  will  help  plan  re- 
search and  development  programs  for  the 
company,  v/hich  is  concerned  v^ith  military 
electronics  and  space  systems.  He  holds  a  de- 
gree from  Drexel  University  and  was  respon- 
sible at  DAPRA  for  advanced  technology 
programs  in  such  areas  as  tactical,  strategic, 
and  air  vehicles  technology.  He,  his  wife,  and 
four  children  reside  in  Ridgefield. 


i960 


Kevin  Burke  heads  the  congressional  policy 
section  for  the  U.  S.  Navy  at  the  Pentagon. 
....  David  Haley  has  been  named  as  a 
new  trustee  at  Monson  Savings  Bank.  Pres- 
ently, he  is  manager  of  Squier  &  Co.,  Mon- 
son, Mass.  A  chemical  engineer,  previously 
he  was  associated  with  Sprague  Electric  Com- 
pany, North  Adams,  and  Scott  Paper  Com- 
pany in  South  Hadley.  He  has  a  master's 
degree  in  public  administration  from  Western 
New  England  College. 

Correction:  In  the  spring  issue  of  the 
Journal,  Peter  Zilko's  name  was  incorrectly 
spelled. 


I96I 


Currently,  Dr.  Jack  Gabano  holds  the 
position  faculty  chairman  of  Harvard's  Center 
for  International  Senior  Management  Studies 
in  Mont-Pelerin,  Switzerland,  "an 
assignment  which  has  provided  a  wonderful 
personal  and  family  experience  as  well  as  a 
challenging  professional  one."  He  is  on  the 
boards  of  several  academic  journals  and  pro- 
fessional societies  and  consults  or  serves  as  a 
board  member  to  a  number  of  business  organ- 
izations. Recent  awards  include  the  McKin- 
sey  Foundation  Prize  and  Xerox's  "Best  of 
Business"  Award,  both  for  contributions  to 
the  management  literature.  Jack  and  his  wife, 
Marilyn,  a  graphic  designer,  have  two  chil- 
dren, Jana,  II,  and  Jordy,  2.  Their  present  ad- 
dress is:  Avenue  du  Temple  21  b,  I0I2 
Lausaime,  Switzerland. 
Al  Irelan's  12-year-old  daughter,  Lisa,  quali- 
fied for  the  Eastern  Ski  Meet,  Jimior  Division, 
in  March.  She  has  been  skiing  since  the  age 
of  five,  has  collected  a  number  of  medals  and 
trophies,  and  shows  promise  of  being  Olym- 
pic material.  Her  father,  an  industrial  engi- 
neer at  Hollingsworth  and  Vose  Co.,  West 
Groton,  Mass.,  took  part  in  skiing  competi- 
tion while  he  was  a  student  at  WPI.  Cur- 
rently, Betty,  a  nurse  for  the  Groton- 
Dunstable  Regional  School  System,  comes  in 
handy  when  there  are  cuts  and  bruises.  Peter 
IS  a  member  of  the  local  Jimior  Hockey  squad 
and  also  skis  competitively.  Mad  River  Run  in 
Vermont  is  the  family's  favorite  ski  resort. 


Joseph  Janik  has  been  named  division 
manager  in  Network  Systems  at  the  Ameri- 
can Telephone  &  Telegraph  Co.,  Basking 
Ridge,  N.J.  In  1 96 1,  he  began  his  career  as  as- 
sistant engineer  with  Southern  New  England 
Telephone.  In  1971,  he  became  engineering 
manager  at  at&t  in  New  York  City.  He 
moved  with  the  company  in  1975  to  Basking 
Ridge,  where  he  now  lives  with  his  wife  and 
three  children.  He  holds  a  master's  degree  in 
management  from  Pace  University. 

Jim  Kachadorian  has  been  named  by  the 
selectmen  to  fill  a  vacancy  on  the  Woodstock 
(Vt.)  Union  High  School  Board.  Jim,  who  is 
the  owner-president  of  Green  Moimtain 
Homes,  Inc.,  holds  a  bsce  from  WPI  and  an 
MSCE  from  MIT.  He  belongs  to  Tau  Beta  Pi, 
Sigma  Xi,  and  was  a  founder  and  charter 
member  of  Chi  Epsilon.  After  graduating 
from  MIT,  he  served  with  the  U.S.  Army  in 
Germany,  and  rose  to  the  rank  of  captain.  He 
has  been  active  as  a  member  of  the  Wood- 
stock Finance  Committee. 

Timothy  Meyers,  Jr.,  who  has  a  dds  from 
Howard  University,  is  presently  an  assistant 
professor  in  the  Department  of  Orthodontics 
at  the  Emory  University  School  of  Dentistry 
in  Atlanta,  Ga.  He  also  has  a  private  practice 
in  Atlanta. 

Kenneth  Parker  is  currently  self  em- 
ployed as  a  construction  marketing  consul- 
tant and  "enjoys  it."  He  says  that  he  is  in  reg- 
ular contact  with  Norm  Noel,  Hank  Allessio, 
John  Powers,  Len  Johnson,  Pete  Natale, 
Svend  Pelch,  and  Ed  Wozniak.  His  son.  Matt, 
hopes  to  be  a  member  of  the  class  of  1985  at 
WPI. 

Husein  Pothiawala  serves  as  production 
service  manager  at  Pfizer,  Inc.,  in  New  York 
City.  He  has  an  ms  from  Northeastern  Uni- 
versity  Dr.  Charles  Wilkes  has  been 

named  director  of  corporate  research  for  the 
B.F.  Goodrich  Company.  From  the  firm's  re- 
search and  development  facility  in  Breck- 
sville,  Ohio,  he  will  coordinate  all  long-range, 
multidisciplinary  research  into  new  technolo- 
gies, products  and  processes  that  support 
bfg's  strategic  business  goals.  He  joined 
Goodrich  as  a  chemist  in  1964.  Since  then, 
he  has  held  increasingly  responsible  positions 
in  the  areas  of  chemical  physics  research  and 
technological  assessment.  A  member  of  the 
American  Chemical  Society,  he  holds  a  doc- 
torate in  physical  chemistry  from  Princeton. 


HOMECOMING  OCT.  2-3 


1962 


Charles  Burdick,  Jr.  holds  the  position  of 
manager  of  manufacturing  analysis  and  con- 
tracts in  test  fibers  at  du  Pont  in  Wilmington, 
Delaware. 

Robert  Goretti  has  been  named  general 
manager  of  Lee's  Manufacturing  Company, 
North  Providence,  R.I.  In  his  new  post,  he 
will  be  in  charge  of  all  operations  at  the  plant, 
a  manufacturer  of  jewelry  components. 


....  Vaidotas  Kuzminskas  is  employed  as 
an  assistant  project  engineer  at  United  Tech- 
nologies Corp.,  Power  Systems  Division, 
South  Windsor,  Coim.  He  and  Gloria  have 
two  children  and  reside  in  Glastonbury. 

Peter  Martin  was  recently  promoted  to 
vice  president  of  the  Heavy  Division  of  J.F. 
White  Contracting  Co.,  Newton,  Mass.  The 
firm  has  subway  tunnels  valued  at  $150  mil- 
lion under  construction  in  Boston  and  Phila- 
delphia  Bruce  Simmon  serves  as 

director  of  business  planning  and  analysis  at 

CSC  in  El  Segundo,  Calif Stanley 

Strychaz  is  managing  editor  of  R.S.  Means 
Co.,  Inc.  in  Kingstowm,  Mass. 

John  Szymanski  has  been  elected  presi- 
dent of  the  New  England  chapter  of  the 
American  Society  of  Travel  Agents  (asta).  He 
was  installed  by  the  national  chairman  of  the 
society  at  the  International  Congress  of  asta 
last  winter  in  Manila,  Philippines.  He  is  pres- 
ident of  Paradise  Travel  Service,  Inc.  of  All- 
ston,  Mass. 


1963 


►  Married:  Dr.  William  J.  Savola,  Jr.  to  Deb- 
orah F.  Laprade  in  Longmeadow,  Massachu- 
setts on  May  9,  1981.  Mrs.  Savola  attended 
Springfield  Technical  Community  College 
and  is  employed  as  a  general  office  manager 
and  private  secretary  by  the  First  Pentecostal 
Church.  Her  husband  has  an  ms  and  pho  in 
physics  from  the  University  of  Connecticut, 
Storrs,  and  an  mba  from  New  York  Univer- 
sity. He  is  a  chartered  financial  analyst  and  a 
partner  in  WJS  Associates  in  Longmeadow. 

Laurence  Bascom  serves  as  development 
associate  at  du  Pont  in  Richmond,  Va.  He 
holds  an  mba  from  the  University  of  Tennes- 
see in  Chattanooga.  The  Bascoms  have  two 
children. 

Thomas  Chechile  is  employed  at  Pratt  &. 

Whitney  in  Jupiter,  Fla David  Kilike- 

wich  is  head  of  the  test  engineering  section  at 
Pearl  Harbor  Naval  Shipyard  in  Hawaii. 
....  Roger  Maddocks  holds  the  post  of  su- 
perintendent of  the  Sensitizing  Division  at 
Eastman  Kodak,  Windsor,  Colorado.  He  and 
his  wife,  Carole,  are  the  parents  of  six  chil- 
dren. 

Joseph  Mancuso,  who  heads  the  Center 
for  Entrepreneurial  Management,  Worcester, 
was  in  Dallas,  Texas  when  cem  seminars 
were  being  held  in  May.    ....  Donald  Ro- 
bertson works  as  a  construction  superintend- 
ent for  McNiff  Company  in  Gloucester, 
Mass.  He  has  an  mba  from  Western  New  Eng- 
land College,  is  married,  and  the  father  of 
three  children. 

Harold  Taylor  serves  as  program  manager 
at  the  Hamilton  Standard  Division  of  United 

Technologies  in  Farmington,  Corm 

Henry  Torcellini  is  employed  as  chief  engi- 
neer at  Gardner  &.  Peterson  Assoc,  in  Tolland, 
Conn.  He,  his  wife  Dottie,  and  two  sons, 

Paul  and  Robby,  reside  in  Eastford 

Mitch  Weingrad  is  self  employed  in  insurance 
in  East  Rockaway,  N.Y. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1981/31 


1964 


1966 


Dennis  Balog  has  been  appointed  general 
manager  of  miniature  lighting  products  for 
GTE  Lighting  Products  in  Hillsboro,  N.H.  He 
will  be  responsible  for  engineering,  manufac- 
turing, and  marketing  of  a  broad  line  of  lamps 
for  the  automobile,  aircraft,  electronic,  tele- 
phone, computer  and  other  industries.  In 
1964,  he  joined  gte's  operations  in  Waltham, 
Mass.,  as  a  field  engineer  and  he  has  held  a 
series  of  increasingly  responsible  engineering 
posts.  In  1972,  he  was  promoted  to  technical 
general  foreman,  and  four  years  later  became 
materials  manager  of  miniature  lighting  prod- 
ucts. He  has  been  plant  manager  of  gte  Light- 
ing Products  automotive  headlamp 
manufacturing  facility  in  Seymour,  Ind.  since 
1978.  His  memberships  include  the  ieee  and 
the  Illimiinating  Engineering  Society. 


1965 


Phil  Baker  was  recently  promoted  to  product 
manager  of  industrial  products  at  Polaroid 
Corporation  in  Cambridge,  Mass.  This  post, 
Ln  the  Tech  Photo  Marketing  Division,  fol- 
lows his  previous  positions  within  the  Engi- 
neering Division.  Phil  lives  in  West  Peabody, 
Mass.  with  his  wife,  )ane,  and  two  children, 
Karen  and  Danny. 

Leo  DeBlois,  Jr.,  a  senior  engineer  in  Po- 
laroid's international  division,  received  a 
master's  degree  in  business  administration 
from  Boston  University's  School  of  Manage- 
ment on  May  17th.  He  also  holds  a  master's 
degree  from  the  B.U.  College  of  Engineering. 
He  is  a  member  of  the  American  Society  for 
Quality  Control  and  the  Society  of  Photo- 
graphic Scientists  and  Engineers. 

Dick  Kennedy  has  been  promoted  to  vice 
president  and  general  manager  of  the  Vitrified 
Grinding  Wheel  Division  at  Norton  Com- 
pany, Worcester.  Formerly,  he  was  director  of 
computer  systems  and  services.  He  is  vice 
chairman  of  the  WPI  Alumni  Fund  Board  as 
well  as  chairman  of  the  Class  Agent  Program. 

Henry  Schneck  continues  to  work  for  the 
Suffolk  County  Department  of  Public  Works, 
where  he  is  principal  civil  engineer  in  charge 
of  traffic  engineering  and  construction  super- 
visor  William  Shields  and  his  wife 

have  moved  from  Beacon  Hill  in  Boston  to 
Manomet,  just  south  of  Plymouth,  Mass. 
They  now  have  a  S.Vacre  plot  with  two  work- 
ing cranberry  bogs  and  plan  to  plant  vinifera 
grapes  in  the  near  future. 

Steve  Sutker  has  loined  Hazcltinc  Corpo- 
ration, Grcenlawn,  NY.,  where  he  is  national 
sales  manager  of  Computer  Terminal  Equip- 
ment  Previously,  he  was  the  mid-Atlantic  re- 
gional manager  of  the  General  Distribution 
Division  for  Data  General  (Corporation.  He, 
his  wife  Carol,  his  dog,  Oliver,  and  son, 
Nolan,  reside  in  North  Syosset,  New  York. 


Robert  Levine  is  vice  president  and  general 
manager  of  Huck  Manufacturing  Co.,  King- 
ston, N.Y.  He  has  an  ms  from  Northeastern 
University,  is  married,  and  has  two  children. 

John  Petrie  holds  the  position  of  manager 
of  applications  and  business  development  at 
ITT  Nonh  Microsystems  in  Deerfield  Beach, 

Florida Lawrence  Pihl  serves  as  a 

manufacturer's  representative  at  bbc  in 
Chelmsford,  Mass.  He  received  his  mba  from 

Northeastern Bob  Shaw  ovms  Lisa's 

Auto  Sales  in  Worcester. 

Thomas  Shepelrich  holds  the  post  of 
chief  estimator  at  Metric  Constructors,  St. 
Petersburg,  Fla.  He  and  Carol  Lou  have  one 

child  and  live  in  Tampa Earl  Sparks 

has  been  transferred  to  the  fertilizer  group  of 
International  Minerals  &.  Chemical  in  Chi- 
cago. He  is  a  senior  project  engineer  working 
on  an  ammonia  transport  project  that  in- 
volves two  35-mile  pipelines,  a  50,000-ton 
storage  tank,  and  a  12,500-ton  ocean-going 
barge  to  move  ammonia  from  Louisiana  to 
Florida. 

Robert  Stemschein  is  now  employed  as 
manufacturing  manager  at  Easco  Hand  Tools 
in  Springfield,  Mass.  He  and  Norma  Jean 
have  three  children  and  live  in  Simsbury, 
Corm. 

Maj.  John  Stockhaus  is  now  post  civil  en- 
gineer at  Camp  Edwards.  Formerly,  he  held 
the  same  post  at  Camp  Grayling,  Michigan. 
In  his  new  position,  he  will  be  responsible  for 
the  maintenance  and  repair  of  facilities  and 
will  oversee  construction  of  minor  projects  at 
Camp  Edwards.  Maj.  Stockhaus  is  a  veteran 
of  18  years,  eight  of  those  in  the  National 
Guard.  He  served  two  years  in  Vietnam  with 
the  1st  Cavalry  Division.  He  and  Becky  have 
two  children. 

Roman  Sywak,  who  has  an  mba  from 
Western  New  England  College,  is  a  senior 
product  support  engineer  at  Pratt  &.  Whitney 
Aircraft,  East  Hartford,  Conn. 


HOMECOMING  OCT.  2-3 

1967 

Charles  Blake  holds  the  position  of  manager 
of  the  Atlanta,  Ga.  office  of  Clayton  Environ- 
mental Consultants  in  Marietta. 

James  Braithwaite  is  a  staff  engineer  at 
Hercules-Aerospace  Division  in  Cumberland, 

Md Fernando  Castillo  was  recently 

named  manager  of  the  Performance  Analysis 
Section  at  Riley  Stoker  Corp.,  Worcester. 
With  the  company  since  1970,  he  had  been 

supervisor  of  engineering  standards 

In  February,  Richard  Court,  Jr.  was  promoted 
to  manager  of  quality  control  services  for 
Boehringer  Ingelhcim  Ltd.  of  Danbury,  Conn. 
His  daughter,  Katherine,  was  a  year  old  in 

May John  Facca  is  a  self-employed 

sales  representative  in  New  Britain,  Conn. 


Richard  Gutkowski,  associate  professor 
of  civil  engineering  at  Colorado  State  Univer- 
sity, has  wTitten  a  textbook,  Structure:  Fun- 
damental Theory  and  Behavior,  recently 
published  by  Van  Nostrand  Reinhold.  The 
book  outlines  for  engineers  the  theory  of 
structural  analysis  procedures,  mathematical 
operations  and  storage  techniques  of  com- 
puter programs,  and  offers  new  explanations 
of  fimdamental  theorems  and  assumptions 
that  underlie  the  science.  Gutkowski  has  a 
master's  degree  from  WPI  and  a  doctor's  de- 
gree from  the  University  of  Wisconsin,  Madi- 
son. He  joined  the  Colorado  State  University 
faculty  in  1973.  Formerly,  he  was  a  structural 
designer  and  computer  programmer  at  Harvey 
and  Tracy,  Worcester. 

Frank  Jodaitis  received  his  mba  from  rpi 
last  August. 

James  Lawson,  Jr.  holds  the  post  of  man- 
ager, MIS,  at  Simplex  Time  Recorder  Co., 

Gardner,  Mass Denis  McQuillen  has 

a  new  position  as  vice  president  of  engineer- 
ing for  a  division  of  Gulf  &.  Westem  Corpora- 
tion at  their  New  York  City  headquarters.  In 
this  capacity,  he  will  be  responsible  for  corpo- 
rate engineering  projects.  His  backgroimd  in- 
cludes broad  engineering  project  management 
responsibility  on  a  diversity  of  construction 
projects  throughout  the  world.  For  the  past 
five  years  with  E.R.  Squibb  &  Sons  in  Prince- 
ton, N.J.,  he  was  a  senior  project  manager  and 
managed  multi-million  dollar  pharmaceutical 
projects  in  New  Jersey,  Puerto  Rico,  and 
South  Africa.  Most  recently,  he  began  a  pro- 
ject for  the  People's  Republic  of  China. 
Denis,  who  lives  with  his  wife  Susan  and 
their  two  children  in  Lawrenceville,  N.J.,  has 
been  listed  in  the  1981-1982  edition  of  Who's 
Who  in  the  East. 

John  Sonne  v^ites:  "I  have  been  a 
partner  in  our  practice  for  over  a  year.  I've 
also  enjoyed  doing  public  affairs  for  the  area 
veterinarians  by  writing  news  releases  for  ra- 
dio and  newspapers,  as  well  as  doing  a  num- 
ber of  TV  interviews." 


1968 


►  Married:  Michael  J.  True  and  ludith  A. 
Baker  in  Woodfords,  Maine  on  May  2,  1 98 1. 
Mrs.  True  graduated  from  Portland  High 
School  and  is  employed  by  New  England  Tel- 
ephone. Her  husband,  who  also  studied  at  the 
University  of  New  Haven  and  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Southern  Maine,  is  with  Overhead 
Door  Co.  of  Portland,  a  division  of  Maine 
Building  Specialties. 


32  /  Summer  1981  /  The  WPI  foumal 


Dr.  Donald  Aldrich  is  a  research  supervi- 
sor at  du  Font's  Troy  Laboratory  in  Michigan. 
He  has  a  phofrom  mix,  is  married,  and  has 

two  children Recently,  Kurt  Benson 

became  associated  with  the  law  firm  of  Salter 
and  Michaelson  in  Providence,  R.I.  The  firm 
is  concerned  with  patent,  trademark,  and 
copyright  kw. 

Robert  Edge,  vice  president  of  Edge 
Wallboard  Machinery  Company, 
DowningtovkTi,  Pa.,  was  elected  secretary- 
treasurer  of  the  Pulp  &.  Paper  Machinery 
Manufacturers'  Association  (ppmma)  at  its  an- 
nual meeting  in  March.  Edge,  the  outgoing 
president  of  the  nationwide  trade  organiza- 
tion, was  cited  for  his  initiative  in  new  mem- 
bership development,  the  increased  activity 
of  PPMMA  in  product  liability  reform,  and  the 
increased  activity  of  the  organization's  board 
of  directors  and  executive  committee.  He 
lives  in  Romansville,  Pa.  with  his  wife,  Patri- 
cia, and  two  children. 

Kenneth  Ekstrom  works  as  an  elec- 
tronics engineer  at  Comm-Term  Corp.,  May- 

nard.  Mass Robert  Falciani  holds 

the  post  of  area  office  manager  at  ees.  Inc.,  in 
San  Francisco.  He  has  an  msme  and  an  mba 
from  Northeastern. 

Bert  Gunter  is  a  member  of  the  technical 

staff  at  RCA  Labs  in  Princeton,  N.J 

Gerald  Junevicus  has  resigned  as  assistant 
professor  at  the  Higher  Institute  of  Technol- 
ogy in  Brack,  Libya.  He  holds  a  master's  and 
a  doctor's  degree  from  the  University  of  Vic- 
toria, Canada Robert  Lowell,  a  pro- 
ject physicist  in  electromagnetic  technology 
at  TRW  Defense  &.  Space  Systems,  Redondo 
Beach,  Calif. ,  is  also  working  on  his  msee  in 
commimications  at  the  University  of  South- 
em  California. 

Edward  O'Hara  serves  as  a  senior  piping 
engineer  at  rrr  Grinnell  Industrial  Piping, 
Inc.,  Lycoming,  N.Y.  He  and  Debra  have  one 

child  and  reside  in  Oswego Last 

September,  Richard  Perreault  left  the  Army. 
Presently,  he  is  a  project  engineer  with  the 
Flood  Control  District  of  Maricopa  County  in 
Phoenix.  ("Yes!  It  does  flood  in  the  desert!") 

Richard  Sadowski  was  a  featured  speaker 
at  the  69th  annual  convention  and  power 
show  of  the  New  England  States  Association 
of  Power  Engineers  held  in  Sturbridge,  Mass. 
in  May.  In  his  talk,  he  described  how  more 
and  more  industrial  plants  in  New  England 
are  reintroducing  coal  as  a  more  affordable 
fuel  at  a  time  when  energy  costs  are  a  priority 
matter. 

Stephen  Schwann  is  newly  employed  as 
a  principal  research  engineer  at  the  Foxboro 
(Mass.)  Co.  He  is  involved  in  corporate  re- 
search  Robert  Smith  serves  as  a 

computer  management  consultant  with 
Computer  Partners  in  Wellesley  Hills,  Mass. 
....  John  Starsiak,  Jr.,  who  holds  an  ms  in 
chemistry  from  Northeastern,  is  presently  a 
student  at  the  University  of  Kansas. 

Charles  Trent  has  been  appointed  as 
market  development  manager  for  basic  dyes 
by  the  Dyes  and  Chemicals  Division  of 
Crompton  &  Knowles  Corporation,  Char- 
lotte, N.C.  In  his  new  position,  he  will  coor- 
dinate all  marketing  activities  for  c&k's  line 
of  Sevron®  basic  dyes  which  were  formerly 
made  by  du  Pont.  Previously  a  technical  serv- 
ices supervisor  for  the  company  at  its  Read- 
ing, Pa.,  laboratories,  Trent  will  now  be  based 
at  the  division's  marketing  headquarters  in 


Charlotte.  He  joined  Crompton  &  Knowles  as 
an  analytical  chemist  in  1974,  and  holds  an 
MBA  from  Lehigh  University.  A  member  of 
the  American  Association  of  Textile 
Chemists  and  Colorists,  he  also  belongs  to 
the  American  Chemical  Society,  c&k's  Dyes 
and  Chemicals  Division  is  a  major  supplier  of 
dyes  and  chemicals  used  by  the  textile  indus- 
try for  synthetic  and  natural  fibers.  Crompton 
and  Knowles  manufactures  specialty  chemi- 
cals and  special  industry  machinery. 

Peter  Walsh  serves  as  associate  director 
("head  hunter")  for  Engineering  Career  Asso- 
ciates, Burlington,  Mass.  Last  year,  he  re- 
ceived his  MBA  from  Suffolk  University.  He 
and  Marybeth  live  in  Plymouth,  Mass.  and 
are  the  parents  of  three  children. 


1969 


Richard  Check  is  employed  as  a  project  man- 
ager at  CH2M  Hill  Engineers  in  Atlanta,  Ga. 
Presently,  he  is  involved  in  the  design  and 
construction  of  water  and  wastewater  facil- 
ities. He  has  an  msce  from  Northeastern  Uni- 
versity, is  married,  and  resides  in  Stone 
Mountain. 

Michael  Hart  continues  as  a  senior  engi- 
neer at  Raytheon's  Missile  Systems  Division 

in  Bedford,  Mass Recently,  Arthur 

Katsaros  was  named  nitration  products  busi- 
ness manager  for  Air  Products  and  Chemi- 
cals, Inc.,  Allentown,  Pa.  He  is  responsible 
for  overseeing  performance  of  Air  Products' 
nitrations  business.  The  company  produces 
dinitrotoluene  (dnt)  and  toluene  diamine 
(tda) — intermediate  materials  used  to  manu- 
facture toluene  diamine  diisocyanate — at  its 
plant  in  Pasadena,  Texas.  Prior  to  his  appoint- 
ment, Katsaros  was  business  development 
manager  of  nitration  products  for  the  com- 
pany, which  he  joined  in  1973.  He  holds  an 
"MBA  from  Lehigh. 

Edward  Mierzejewski  was  a  co-author  of 
'Impacts  of  Elderly  and  Handicapped  Transit 
Fare  Policies",  which  appeared  in  the  March 
issue  of  the  ITE  foumal.  Recently,  he  was 
named  director  of  transportation  programs  at 
Henningson,  Durham  &  Richardson  in  hdr's 
Alexandria,  Va.  office,  hdr  is  a  nationwide  ar- 
chitectural, engineering,  and  planning  firm. 
In  1973,  he  joined  crw,  where  he  had  broad 
responsibilities  in  transportation  and  environ- 
mental planning,  including  proposal  prepara- 
tion, technical  studies,  client  coordination, 
and  report  preparation  and  presentation.  He 
has  an  msce  (Transportation  Systems  Divi- 
sion) from  MIT.  He  writes:  "Together  with 
Aline  and  children,  Sara,  9,  and  Mark,  6,  we 
are  continuing  to  enjoy  the  good  life  in  Vir- 
ginia, where  we  have  been  for  ten  years." 

Joel  O'Rourke  is  a  computer  scientist  at 
Computer  Sciences  Corp.,  Hemdon,  Va.  He 
writes:  "Working  on  Saudi  Arabian  mis  pro- 
ject." He  and  his  wife,  Kathy  (Meehan), 
whom  he  married  last  October,  reside  in  Fair- 
fax, Va. 


Dr.  Donald  Rule  is  now  working  for  the 
Navy  Department  in  the  Naval  Surface 
Weapons  Center  in  White  Oak,  Md.,  where 
he  does  research  in  nuclear  physics.  He  and 
other  members  of  his  team  have  been  devel- 
oping a  particle  beam  weapon  for  defense  pur- 
poses. The  particle  beam  is  a  stream  of  highly 
energetic  atomic  or  subatomic-size  particles 
such  as  electrons,  protons,  hydrogen  atoms, 
or  ions.  Laser  beams,  conversely,  consist  of 
radiant  energy  photons.  An  electron  beam 
would  resemble  a  lightning  bolt,  while  a  laser 
beam  would  be  an  intense  beam  of  heat.  The 
major  component  for  the  beam  weapon  is  the 
accelerator,  which  functions  in  a  manner 
similar  to  a  tv  electron  gun,  although  much 
more  powerfully.  Rule,  who  works  on  the 
material  response  interaction  team,  received 
his  doctorate  in  physics  from  the  University 
of  Cormecticut. 

Last  October,  Joseph  Senecal  joined  the 
corporate  research  department  at  Cabot  Cor- 
poration, Billerica,  Mass Joe  Stahl  is 

now  engineering  manager  for  the  Pro  Brush 
Division  of  Rexall  Co.  in  Florence,  Mass. 


1970 


►  Bom:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Roger  Henze  their 
first  child,  Brian  Matthew,  on  August  2, 
1980.  Wife  Judy  is  an  English  instructor  at  Sa- 
vaimah  State  College. 

Paul  Akscyn  serves  as  a  consulting  engi- 
neer at  Crawford  &  Russell  in  Houston, 

Texas Henry  Block  is  a  real  estate 

associate  at  Jack  Thomas,  Inc.,  Miami,  Fla. 
He  and  Cathy  have  two  children. 

Kenneth  Brown  has  received  his  doctor 
of  engineering  degree  in  mechanical  engineer- 
ing from  RPI,  Troy,  N.Y.  Currently,  he  is  a  re- 
search engineer  in  the  structures  technology 
group  of  the  Commercial  Products  Division 
of  Pratt  &.  Whitney  Aircraft,  a  division  of 
United  Technologies.  His  wife  is  studying 
clinical  dietetics  at  the  University  of  Con- 
necticut. 

Ganeth  Cooke  serves  as  a  design  engi- 
neer at  ge's  Aircraft  Instrument  Division  in 

Wilmington,  Mass Daniel 

Czemicki  serves  as  a  project  engineer  at  Nfusc 
in  Newport,  R.I.  He  and  Mary  Beth  have  one 
child  and  live  in  Saunderstown. 

Mark  Gemborys  is  a  research  chemist  at 
Sterling  Winthrop  in  Rensselaer,  N.Y. 

"The  Electric  Disco  Chicken",  an  ani- 
mated short  by  Bob  Goodness  of  Shrewsbury, 
Mass.,  represented  the  U.S.  at  the  1981 
Cannes  International  Film  Festival.  It  was  se- 
lected by  the  director  of  the  festival  from 
films  in  international  competition  and  was 
the  only  super  8mm  film  from  the  U.S.  se- 
lected to  be  screened  there  this  year.  Super 
8mm  films  have  not  been  shown  at  Cannes 
in  the  past.  Bob's  film  has  previously  won 
awards  at  the  1980  Toronto  Super  8  Film  Fes- 
tival and  the  1980  New  England  Film  Festi- 
val. It  has  also  been  screened  at  a  number 
of  festivals  throughout  North  America  and 
Europe. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Slimmer  1981  /  33 


Jeffrey  Manty  has  been  named  division 
engineer  of  the  Saucon  Mills  Division  of  the 
Bethlehem  Steel  Corporation.  Saucon  Mills 
Division  is  the  largest  single  structural  steel 
shapes  producing  and  shipping  complex  in 
the  free  world.  Manty's  wife,  Christine,  is  an 
officer  and  branch  manager  of  the  Nazareth 
National  Bank.  The  Mantys  and  their  two 
children  reside  at  Little  Acre  Estates  in  Naz- 
areth, Pa. 

Robert  Mulcahy  holds  the  post  of  district 
manager  at  New  England  Telephone  in  Bos- 
ton. The  Mulcahy s  reside  in  Manchester, 

Mass.  and  have  one  child Wah  Sing 

Ng  continues  as  a  management  consultant 
with  Stone  and  Webster,  New  York  City. 

Robert  Rosenberg  holds  the  position  of 
president  at  Roben  A.  Rosenberg,  Inc., 
Quincy,  Calif.  He  is  a  graduate  of  the  Realtors 

Institute Erik  Roy  has  joined  the  ge 

Research  and  Development  Center,  Schenec- 
tady, as  a  specialist  in  technology  transfer 
services.  Prior  to  his  Center  appointment,  he 
served  for  eight  years  with  the  Mohasco  Cor- 
poration, first  as  an  industrial  engineer  and 
later  as  manager  of  licensing  operations.  He 
has  a  master's  degree  in  industrial  adminis- 
tration from  Union  College. 

Robert  Spiro,  who  is  with  DuBois  Chem- 
icals of  Cincinnati,  sells  both  process  and 
maintenance  products  to  industrial  market- 
places in  maniifacturing,  food,  and  transpor- 
tation. Also,  he  is  into  water  treatment, 
including  boilers,  cooling  towers,  and  effluent 
water,  "not  to  mention  polymer  and  syn- 
thetic energy-saving  lubricants  and  equip- 
ment." He  is  located  in  Worcester.  During 
the  summer,  he  crews  on  a  40-h.  racing  sail- 
boat on  Narragansett  Bay,  and  in  winter  he 
enjoys  Killington. 


1971 


►  Bom:  to  Barbara  and  David  Winer,  a  son, 
Jesse  Lee,  on  June  29,  1980. 

Andrew  Griffin  works  as  a  project  engi- 
neer at  Tau-Tron  in  Chelmsford,  Mass. 
....  Dr.  David  Hobill,  who  holds  an  msc 
from  the  University  of  Calgary  and  a  pho 
from  the  University  of  Victoria,  both  in  Can- 
ada, is  currently  a  post  doctoral  fellow  in  the 
Laboratory  Physique  Theorique,  at  Institute 
Henri  Poincare  in  Paris,  France. 

Ken  Kowalchek  is  budget  and  manage- 
ment officer  for  the  Department  of  State  in 
Washington,  DC.  He  has  an  mba  from 
UMass,  is  married,  and  has  two  children. 
.  Edward  Lowe  III  has  been  promoted 

to  manager  of  marketing  programs  for  the  In- 
stallation &(.  Service  Engineering  Division  of 
CF  in  Schenectady,  N.Y. 

Gary  Mason  has  the  position  of  execu- 
tive vice  president  of  Stevens  Linen  Assoc, 
Inc  ,  Webster,  Mass  The  Masons  live  in  Dud- 
ley and  have  one  child Joe  Moia,  Jr. 

is  employed  at  Hughes  Aircraft  Co.  as  a 
member  of  the  technical  staff  in  El  Scgundo, 
Calif Robert  Payne  is  project  man- 
ager of  business  development  for  the  Standard 
Oil  Co.-Vistron  Corp.  in  Cleveland,  Ohio 


William  St.  Hilaire  holds  the  post  of 
regional  environmental  engineer  for  Metro- 
politan Boston/Northeast  Region,  Common- 
wealth of  Massachusetts,  in  the  Department 
of  Environmental  Quality  Engineering,  Wo- 
bum,  Mass.  He  and  Diane  have  three  chil- 
dren and  reside  in  Clinton. 

Francis  Scricco  has  been  named  staff  ex- 
ecutive for  strategic  planning  and  develop- 
ment in  the  ge  consumer  products  section, 
Fairfield,  Conn.  He  joined  the  company  in 
1979  as  manager  of  strategic  planning  and  de- 
velopment. Formerly,  he  worked  for  the  Bos- 
ton Consulting  Group,  Inc.,  a  management 
consulting  company.  He  holds  an  mba  from 
Columbia  and  lives  in  Redding,  Cotm. 

Bob  Sinicrope  teaches  at  Milton  Acad- 
emy. He  earned  his  master's  degree  in  mathe- 
matics education  at  Boston  University.  The 
Sinicropes  and  their  two  children  reside  in 
Milton,  Mass Frank  Steiner  was  re- 
cently elected  treasurer  of  Energy  Manage- 
ment and  Control  Company,  a  consulting 
firm  specializing  in  industrial  gas  turbines. 
He  is  located  in  Marlboro,  Mass. 

Frederick  Szufnarowski  is  now  a  project 
engineer-generation  in  the  civil  engineering 
department  at  Northeast  Utilities,  Hartford, 

Conn Bruce  Tompkins  works  as  a 

construction  superintendent  for  C.H.  Nicker- 
son  &  Co.,  Inc.,  of  Torrington,  Conn.,  and  is 
concerned  with  water  pollution  control. 
....   Michael  Weill  works  as  a  senior  engi- 
neer at  Union  Carbide  Corp.,  Tarrytown, 
N.Y. 

Glenn  White  v^rites:  "I  finally  completed 
my  pho  in  atmospheric  sciences  at  the  end  of 
January.  The  thesis  was  entitled  'A  Compari- 
son of  the  Summertime  and  Wintertime  Cir- 
culations of  the  Extra  Tropical  Northern 
Hemisphere.'  I  am  now  a  postdoctoral  re- 
search associate  here  at  the  University  of 
Reading  (England)  and  hope  to  stay  through 
the  end  of  1982.  I  am  working  on  the  global 
circulation  of  the  atmosphere  and  every  two 
weeks  calculate  several  statistics  describing 
the  state  of  the  atmosphere  during  the  pre- 
vious two  weeks.  The  computing  is  done  at 
the  European  Centre  for  Medium-Range 
Forecasts." 


HOMECOMING  OCT.  2-3 


1972 


►  Married:  Adrien  Gaudreau  and  Linda  Hole- 
man  of  Portland,  Oregon  on  August  8,  1980. 
Mrs.  Gaudreau  has  a  bs  in  forest  science,  a  bs 
in  recreation  planning,  and  an  ma  in  environ- 
mental planning.  She  works  for  the  Bureau  of 
Land  Management  in  Alaska,  where  she  is 
concerned  with  environmental  impact  stud- 
ies  James  H.  Purington  and  Chris- 
tine A.  McHiigh  in  Waltham,  Mas.sachusetts 
recently.  The  bride  received  her  chemical  en- 
gineering degree  from  Tufts  University,  Med- 
ford.  Her  husband,  who  has  an  ms  in 
environmental  engineering  from  Colorado 
State  University,  is  with  Recycling  Industries 
in  Braintree. 

►  Bom:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Joseph  G. 
Harkins  a  son,  Joseph  Gerald  III,  on  July  I, 
1980.  Sister  Kimberly  Anne,  is  now  fotir. 
Harkins  is  manager  of  the  Large  Systems  Di- 
vision for  Manufacturer's  Business  Systems, 
Inc  ,  a  Worcester-based  iiw  consulting  firm. 


David  Bailey  is  employed  by  General  Dy- 
namics in  Groton,  Conn Charles 

Brine  is  currently  a  senior  research  chemist  at 
FMC  Corporation  in  Princeton,  N.|.  He  has  a 
pho  from  the  University  of  Delaware. 

Gordon  Chess  is  dean  of  the  faculty  of 
engineering  science  at  the  University  of  West- 
em  Ontario  in  London.  He  and  Margaret  have 

three  children Walter  Mcllveen 

serves  as  chief  mechanical  engineer  at  Diaz, 
Seckinger  Assoc,  Tampa,  Fla.  He  has  an 
MSME  from  RPi  and  an  mba  from  Wayne  State 
University,  Detroit,  Michigan. 

David  Meyer  presently  serves  as  manager 
of  Arthur  Young  &  Co.  in  San  Francisco. 
....  Robert  Pascucci  is  now  overseeing  the 
construction  of  the  sixty-imit  senior  citizen 
apartment  complex  now  imderway  on  Glen 
Street  in  Glen  Cove,  N.Y.  He  is  a  vice  presi- 
dent of  the  Jobco  Realty  and  Construction 
Company  of  Great  Neck,  redevelopers  of  the 
Glen  Street  property.  He  has  a  law  degree 
from  St.  John's  University.  At  one  time,  he 
was  associated  with  a  New  York  City  con- 
struction company,  and  was  later  an  engineer 
for  the  Glen  Cove  Urban  Renewal  Agency.  He 
rejoined  the  Jobco  firm  in  July  of  1980. 


1973 


►  Bom:  to  Bonnie  and  Chris  Broders  their 
first  child,  Sarah  Elizabeth,  on  November  25, 

1980 to  Donna  and  Dr.  John  H. 

Ward  a  daughter,  Jessica  Elizabeth,  on  May  2, 
1981. 

Tom  Bileski  is  district  sales  manager  at 
Texas  Instruments  in  St.  Louis,  Mo.  The  Bi- 
leskis  have  a  daughter,  Lara  Ann,  and  reside 

Ln  Ballwin Peter  Conti  works  as  a 

lead  geotechnical  engineer  for  Stone  &.  Web- 
ster in  Cherry  Hill,  N.J.  The  Contis  live  in 

Laurel  Springs Kevin  Crossen  serves 

as  a  chemist  for  the  Food  and  Drug  Adminis- 
tration in  Silver  Spring,  Md. 

William  Elliott  serves  as  manager  of  pro- 
gram development  in  the  International  Pro- 
jects Department  at  ge  in  New  York  City. 
Last  year,  he  received  his  mba  from  Columbia 

University Jon  Franson  continues 

with  the  iJSAF  Weather  Data  Requirements 
Section  at  raf  Croughton,  United  Kingdom. 

Robert  Haywood  holds  the  post  of  direc- 
tor at  Tcdelex  Far  East,  Ltd.,  in  Hong  Kong. 
....   Next  fall,  Glen  Johnson  will  rejoin 
the  faculty  at  Vanderbilt  University  as  an  as- 
sociate professor  of  mechanical  engineering. 
He  is  married  to  the  former  Kathryne  A.  De- 
Loach  of  lackson,  Tenn.  They  have  two  sons, 
Edward  and  Eric 

Christopher  Kralik  is  a  process  design  en- 
gineer at  C.E.  Lummus,  Hloomficld,  N.J. 

...   Since  February,  Peter  McDermott  has 
been  employed  as  a  patent  attorney  in  the 
Patent  Law  Section  of  the  Office  of  the  Gen- 
eral C^ounsel  at  Ford  Motor  Co.,  Dearborn, 
Mich.  He  holds  a  in  from  Suffolk  University 
Law  School. 


34  /  Summer  1981  /  The  WPI  fouma] 


Kenneth  Muccino  has  been  promoted  to 
senior  engineer  at  Northeast  Utihties  in  Hart- 
iord,  Conn.  He  joined  the  Connecticut  Light 
and  Power  Company,  an  nu  subsidiary,  as  a 
cadet  engineer  in  Norwalk  in  1973.  He  held 
positions  of  increasing  responsibility  in  the 
Norwalk  district  and  in  the  utility's  southern 
region  headquarters  office,  Stamford,  before 
transferring  to  >nj's  general  offices  in  Berlin  in 
1979.  At  the  time  of  the  move,  he  was  pro- 
moted to  engineer  in  the  Engineering  and  Op- 
erations Capital  and  Expense  Management 
Department.  A  registered  professional  engi- 
neer in  Connecticut  and  a  member  of  the 
IEEE,  Muccino  also  holds  an  mba  from  the 
University  of  Connecticut.  He  is  married  and 
the  father  of  a  son,  Kenneth  M.  Muccino. 

Paul  Parulis  now  works  for  Northeast 
Utilities  Service  Co.  in  the  betterment  con- 
struction group  at  Connecticut  Yankee 

Atomic  Power  Station Daniel  Prior 

in  was  recently  appointed  to  supervisor  of 
work  methods  at  New  England  Electric, 

Westboro,  Mass Rand  Refrigeri  has 

qualified  as  a  professional  engineer  in  Massa- 
chusetts. Presently,  he  is  employed  with  the 
Carlson  Corporation  of  Cochituate,  Mass., 
where  he  is  a  mechanical  engineer. 
Mark  Richards  owns  Pizza  Transit  Authority 
m  Durham,  N.C.  He  v^nrites:  "We  have  re- 
cently purchased  the  Durham  franchise  of 
P.T.A.  and  are  enjoying  the  pleasures  of  self- 
employment."  ....  Wayne  Schweiden- 
back  is  an  electrical  control  engineer  at  Stone 
&  Webster,  Boston.  He  and  feannette,  who 
have  three  children,  live  in  Norfolk,  Mass. 
....  Russell  Smith,  Jr.  is  a  project  engineer 
at  Texon,  Inc.,  South  Hadley,  Mass. 

Presently,  Steve  Turo  holds  the  post  of 
process  development  engineer  at  Fiber  Indus- 
tries, Inc.,  a  manufacturer  of  polyester  fila- 
ment yam  in  Greenville,  S.C Ralph 

Veenema,  Jr.  has  a  new  job  in  coal  gasification 
development  with  Combustion  Engineering 

Power  Systems  Group,  Windsor,  Ct 

Robert  Yesukevich  holds  the  post  of  superin- 
tendent of  oil  processing  operations  for  UOP, 
Inc.,  Des  Plaines,  111.  He  is  presently  located 
at  the  Riyadh  oil  refinery  in  Saudi  Arabia. 


1974 


►  Married:  Capt.  Donald  W.  Gross  and  Tracie 
F  Tudor  in  McLean,  Virginia  on  April  11, 
1981.  The  bride  graduated  from  American 
University.  The  groom  serves  as  a  pilot  for 

the  U.S.  Air  Force Bruce  Lackey  to 

Ferry al  Ghovanlou  in  Newport  Beach,  Cali- 
fomia  on  November  29,  1980.  Mrs.  Lackey 
attended  Chapman  College  and  the  Univer- 
sity of  California,  Irvine,  and  currently  works 
tor  Gucci.  Her  husband  is  a  senior  account 
manager  and  regional  analytical  specialist  for 
Taylor  Instrument  Company.  The  couple  is 
residing  in  the  San  Francisco  East  Bay  area. 


►  Bom:  to  Belinda  and  James  Asaro  their 
second  child,  Jason  Alexander,  in  Jime  of 
1980.  Asaro  is  temporarily  a  warehouse  su- 
pervisor for  Pepsi-Cola  in  Long  Island  City, 
N.Y.,  pending  a  flight  officer  position  with  a 

commuter  airline to  William  and 

Paula  Fragassi  Delaney,  '76  a  daughter,  Kate 
A.  Delaney,  on  December  4,  1980.  Last  No- 
vember, Bill  transferred  to  Norton  in  Worces- 
ter as  a  pilot  plant  engineer to  Pat 

and  David  Packard  a  son,  Brian  David,  on 
January  29,  1981.  David  is  an  engineer  in  the 
Production  Division  of  the  Public  Service  Co. 
of  New  Hampshire.  Pat  is  now  a  full-time 
mother. 

Douglas  Borgatti  holds  the  position  of 
process  control  engineer  for  the  Passaic  Valley 
Sewage  Commission.  This  year  he  receives 
his  pliD  from  Notre  Dame.  In  1976,  he  re- 
ceived his  MSEE  from  Manhattan  College. 
....  Robert  Cikatz  serves  as  a  quality 
control  engineer  at  NE  Nuclear  Energy  Co., 
Waterford,  Conn.  He  and  Mary  reside  in 
Fitchville. 

Richard  Corey,  a  former  U.S.  Postal  Serv- 
ice employee,  has  written  a  book  to  help  po- 
tential postal  service  employees  score  high  on 
their  competitive  examinations.  His  book, 
The  Guide  to  Postal  Examinations-,  was  re- 
cently published  by  Reston  Publishing  Co. 
Written  exclusively  for  postal  service  clerk- 
carrier  and  machine  clerk  exams,  the  127- 
page  guide  offers  study  and  practice  exercises, 
as  well  as  tips  designed  to  increase  a  person's 
speed  and  accuracy  on  the  tests.  His  Corey 
method  of  numeric  translation  is  a  system  of 
remembering  two-digit  numbers.  He  used  it 
to  speed  his  former  work  as  a  mail  sorter,  and 
it  is  aimed  straight  at  developing  high  scores 
in  the  memory  section  of  postal  examina- 
tions. By  using  his  method,  he  scored  100  on 
the  memory  sections  of  tests  given  at  White 
River  Junction,  Vt.,  Newark,  N.J.,  and  in 
Winsted  and  Hartford,  Conn.,  and  was  offered 
postal  jobs  at  each  location.  Currently,  Corey 
owns  a  company  that  installs  burglar  alarms. 

Bill  Gemmer  is  now  an  accotint  engineer 
for  Industrial  Risk  Insurers  in  Hartford,  Conn. 
Bill,  Lisa,  and  their  daughter  Lindsay  Rose  re- 
side in  Canton Edward  Gordon  is  a 

systems  programmer  FV  at  Racal-Milgo  in  Ft. 
Lauderdale,  Fla.  He  is  also  working  for  his 

MSCS  at  Villanova  University 

Dennis  Howard  received  his  master's  degree 
in  civil  engineering  from  Tennessee  Techno- 
logical University  in  March. 

Capt.  Thomas  Kielick,  military  science 
professor  at  Siena  College,  has  been  awarded 
the  Meritorious  Service  Medal  for  outstand- 
ing service  to  the  U.S.  Army.  A  resident  of 
Watervliet,  N.Y.,  he  has  been  on  the  Siena 

faculty  staff  since  August  of  1980 

Skip  Leanna  is  employed  as  a  construction 
project  engineer  at  East  Kentucky  Power, 
Winchester,  Ky. 

Ronald  L'Heureux  serves  as  a  reliability 
engineer  at  RCA  Automated  Systems  in 

Burlington,  Mass David  Nickless 

has  graduated  from  law  school  and  is  now  as- 
sociated with  the  Boston  firm  of  Marullo  and 
Bames,  where  he  is  hoping  to  specialize  in 
energy  law,  especially  as  it  relates  to  small- 
head  hydroelectric  facilities  and  cogeneration 
agreements.  His  wife,  Debbie  Phillips,  will  be 
teaching  at  Suffolk  Law  School  next  year. 
They  live  in  Billerica,  where  Dave  is  active  in 
the  local  youth  soccer  program. 


Mary  Bollino  Petry,  who  is  married  to 
Jeff  Petry,  '72,  writes  from  Brighton,  Mich, 
that  Jeff  is  now  7,  Tony,  almost  6,  and 
Laural,  4. 

Matteo  Solitro  is  a  project  engineer  at 
Mobay  Chemical  Corp.,  Pittsburgh.  He  and 
Clelia  have  three  children  and  live  in  Cora- 

opolis.  Pa Peter  Walworth  works  as 

a  senior  facilities  engineer  for  Applicon,  Inc., 
Burlington,  Mass. 


1975 


►  Married:  Jon  T.  Anderson  and  Elizabeth  A. 
Dennis  in  Dallas,  Texas  on  March  7,  1981. 
The  bride  holds  a  ba  in  Spanish  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  Texas  and  graduated  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  Texas  School  of  Law  in  1978.  She  is 
an  Assistant  Attorney  General  for  the  State  of 
Vermont.  Her  husband  graduated  from  Yale 
Law  School  in  1978.  He  is  a  lawyer  with  the 
firm  of  Paterson,  Gibson,  Noble  &.  Goodrich 
in  Montpelier,  Vt. 

►  Bom:  to  Judy  and  Joseph  DelPonte 
their  first  child,  Jonathan  Armand,  on  January 
12,  1981.  DelPonte  is  a  physicist  at  Boeing 
Military  Airplane  Co.,  Huntsville,  Alabama. 

Michael  Amaral  is  an  electronics  engi- 
neer at  the  Naval  Underwater  Systems 
Center  in  New  London,  Conn.  He  has  an  ms 

from  the  University  of  Connecticut 

Robert  Apkarian  serves  an  an  electron  micro- 
scopist  at  the  University  of  Louisville  in 
Kentucky.  In  January,  he  completed  his  MA 

requirements  at  Clark  University 

Ronald  Ballinger  is  an  assistant  professor  at 

MIT. 

H.  Scott  Bicknell  is  now  a  senior  indus- 
trial engineer  in  the  General  Motors  Assem- 
bly Division  in  Warren,  Mich.  He  and  Brenda 

live  in  Sterling  Heights William 

Booth,  who  has  an  ms  from  Cornell  and  a  jd 
from  George  Washington  University,  is  pres- 
ently an  associate  attorney  with  Fish  &  Rich- 
ardson in  Boston,  Mass. 

Steven  Goes  holds  the  post  of  adminis- 
trative assistant  in  the  town  of  Seabrook, 
N.H.  He  and  his  wife,  Betsyanne  reside  in 

Newfields Fred  Cordelia  is  currently 

employed  at  Cullinan  Engineering  in  Auburn, 

Mass Dr.  Bruce  Croft,  who  has  a 

doctor  of  podiatric  medicine  from  the  Chi- 
cago (111.)  College  of  Podiatric  Medicine,  now 
has  two  offices:  one  in  Worcester  and  another 
in  Cambridge,  Mass. 

Currently,  William  DiBenedetto  works 
as  a  production  manager  in  the  field  service 
manufacturing  operation  at  Digital  Equip- 
ment Corporation. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1981  /  35 


In  March,  Judith  Nitsch  Donnellan  was 

chosen  by  the  Southeast  District  of  the  Mas- 
sachusetts Federation  of  Business  and  Profes- 
sional Women's  Clubs,  Inc.,  as  its  candidate 
for  Young  Career  Woman.  She  represented  the 
district  at  the  state  convention  held  in  New- 
ton in  May,  and  is  a  member  of  the  Attleboro 
Area  Business  and  Professional  Women's 
Club,  Inc.  She  serves  as  vice  president  of 
Freeman  Engineering  Company  of  Attleboro. 
A  registered  professional  engineer  in  Massa- 
chusetts, she  also  belongs  to  the  Boston  sec- 
tion of  the  ASCE  and  the  Society  of  Women 
Engineers  |swe).  In  conjimction  with  the  swe, 
she  often  lecttires  to  groups  of  girls  on  engi- 
neering as  a  career.  She  is  co-author  of  a  col- 
oring book,  "Terry's  Trip,"  which  introduces 
engineering  careers  to  grade  school  girls. 

Martin  Fugaidi  has  accepted  the  position 
of  vice  president  of  engineering  at  the 
O.  A.  Peterson  Construction  Co.,  Montclair, 
N.J.  The  firm  specializes  in  industrial,  com- 
mercial, and  institutional  design  and 
construction. 

James  Law,  a  civil  engineer,  is  with  the 
U.S.  Corps  of  Engineers  in  Waltham,  Mass. 
He  and  his  wife,  Elaine,  live  in  West  Boyls- 

ton Dr.  Joseph  LeBritton  v^ites  that 

he  has  taken  a  new  job  as  senior  research  fel- 
low in  elementary  particle  physics  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Arizona  in  Tucson.  His 
experimental  work  will  be  performed  at  the 
National  Accelerator  Lab.  in  Batavia,  Illinois. 

Philip  Ledoux  serves  as  a  research  scien- 
tist at  Fisher  Scientific  Co.,  Orangeburg,  N.Y. 
He  and  Katherine  have  three  children  and  live 

in  Spring  Valley Richard  Murray  is 

with  Aerojet  Electro  Systems  in  Azusa,  Cal- 
if  David  Salomaki  holds  the  position 

of  engineering  project  manager  at  Hewlett- 
Packard,  Cupertino,  Calif Jeff  Web- 
ber is  a  mechanization  requirements  analyst 
for  GE  Ordnance  in  Pittsfield,  Mass.,  where  he 
lives  with  his  wife  and  one  child. 


1976 


►  Married:  William  P.  Casey  and  Rhonda  L. 
Johnson  on  April  25,  1981.  The  bride  gradu- 
ated from  Quinsigamond  Commimity  Col- 
lege, Worcester,  and  is  a  secretary  for  Riley 
Stoker  Corp. 

►  Bom:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Dick  Crahs 
their  first  child,  a  daughter,  Johanna  Marie, 
on  October  21,  1980.  Dick  is  now  superin- 
tendent at  Occidental  Chemical's  Swift 
Creek  sulfuric  acid  plants  in  White  Springs, 
Fla. 

Richard  Allen  of  New  Hampshire  and 
Michael  Schultz,  '75  of  Cambridge,  Mass. 
have  formed  the  partnership  of  Allen  61 
Schultz  to  be  headquartered  in  Lyme,  N.H. 
TTie  newly  established  firm  will  offer  civil, 
environmental,  and  geotcchnical  consulting 
cngmeering  serves  to  clients  throughout  the 
Northeast  Allen,  who  also  graduated  from 


the  University  of  Washington,  has  had  re- 
search experience  at  McGill  University,  regu- 
latory agency  experience  with  the  epa,  and 
consulting-engineering  experience  with  firms 
in  New  England  and  the  Pacific  Northwest. 
Schultz  has  a  degree  from  mit  and  has  had  re- 
search and  consulting  experience  including 
project  work  in  New  England,  the  Pacific 
Northwest,  Alaska,  and  the  Middle  East. 
With  the  inclusion  of  two  other  principals, 
the  firm  holds  professional  engineering  regis- 
tration in  the  States  of  Maine,  New 
Hampshire,  Vermont,  Massachusetts,  Con- 
necticut, and  Washington. 

Gary  Anderson  is  a  sales  proposal  engi- 
neer for  CLncinnati  Milacron-Heald,  Worces- 
ter  Raymond  Calabro,  Jr.  holds  the 

post  of  supervisor  of  pipe  support  engineering 
at  Daniel  Construction,  Jenkinsville,  S.C. 
....  Bill  Clark  has  made  a  recent  job 
change.  Presently,  he  works  for  dbx.  Inc.  in 
Newton,  where  he  is  approvals  engineer.  The 
company  is  a  manufacturer  of  professional 
and  consumer  audio  equipment. 

Tony  Clawson  holds  the  post  of  financial 
manager  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Acton, 
Mass David  Cordelia  is  now  em- 
ployed as  a  senior  engineer  in  the  mass  stor- 
age department  at  Data  General  in  Westboro, 
Mass.  He  is  manied,  lives  in  Worcester,  and 
has  two  children:  a  daughter,  nearly  5,  and  a 

son,  18  months Val  Danos  holds  the 

position  of  manager  of  the  Planning  &  Pro- 
gram Development  Unit  at  Arizona  Depart- 
ment of  Health  Services  in  Phoenix.  "Still 
moving  arotmd  like  a  gypsy." 

Chris  Ford,  who  joined  Procter  &  Gam- 
ble last  November,  now  serves  as  a  team 
manager  at  P&.G  Paper  Products,  Cape  Girar- 
deau, Mo.  He  left  the  Army  as  a  captain  in 
October  The  Fords  are  the  parents  of  a  son, 

Michael,  who  is  almost  a  year  old 

James  Fountain  is  an  associate  engineer  for 
Northeast  Utilities  Service  Company,  Water- 
ford,  Corm Richard  Isaacs,  who 

works  for  the  Boeing  Company,  is  pursuing 
his  MBA  at  the  Albers  School  of  Businesss  at 
Seattle  University  in  Washington. 

Stephen  Jennette  has  been  promoted  to 
senior  systems  programmer  for  the  Computer 

Services  Department  at  Norton  Co 

Thomas  May  is  a  district  engineer  at  the  Tor- 

rington  Co.  in  Dallas,  Texas Robert 

Milk,  Jr.  serves  as  a  system  engineer  for  Elec- 
tronic Data  Systems,  Dallas.  He  and  Elaine 
have  one  child  and  live  in  Garland,  Texas. 

Kestutis  Pauliukonis,  who  received  his 
MD  from  Georgetown  University  last  year,  is 
presently  an  anesthesia  resident  for  the  U.S. 
Navy  at  the  National  Naval  Medical  Center 
in  Bethesda,  Md. 

James  Roberge  recently  received  an  msme 
from  the  University  of  Rhode  Island.  He  is 
employed  by  ge,  and  is  located  in  Erie,  Pa. 
....   Edward  Sawicki  serves  as  a  staff  engi- 
neer at  ees,  Inc.  in  Boston.  He  and  fanis  have 
two  children  and  live  in  Norton,  Mass. 

Ashokkumar  Shah  holds  the  position  of 
New  York  branch  manager  at  Digital  Equip- 
ment Corporation Brian  Swanson  is 

employed  as  manager  of  the  finishing  plant  at 

Norton  Co.,  Himtsville,  Alabama 

Tom  Wimbrow  holds  the  position  of  design 
engineer  at  Brown  &.  Root  in  Houston,  Texas. 
Also,  he  is  working  for  his  mha  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Houston Capt   Neal  Wright 

was  stationed  in  Korea  in  April  and  will  re- 
main there  until  July  of  1982. 


HOMECOMING  OCT.  2-3 

1977 

Ed  Acciardi  is  a  senior  design  engineer  at 
Data  General  Corporation  in  Westboro,  Mass. 
He  works  in  the  mass  storage  division  of  cor- 
porate research  and  development. 

Stephen  Akers,  who  received  his  ms  in 
ocean  engineering  from  uri  last  year,  is  now  a 
civil  engineer  for  the  usae  Waterways  Experi- 
ment Station  in  Vicksburg,  Miss - 

Brian  Belliveau  serves  as  a  sales  engineer  at 
New  Hampshire  Ball  Bearings,  Inc.,  Peterbor- 
ough, N.H.  He  and  Brenda  have  two  children 
and  reside  in  Jaffrey. 

Richard  Blauvelt  continues  as  director  of 
marketing  at  Tme  Trace  in  Whittier,  Calif. 
....  Gary  Bujaucius  has  been  promoted  to 
actuarial  associate  within  the  actuarial  organ- 
ization at  the  Hanover  Lnstirance  Company, 
Worcester.  Following  graduation,  he  joined 
the  company  as  an  actuarial  assistant. 
....   Gerard  Chase  serves  as  a  boiler  design 
engineer  at  Combustion  Engineering  in  Wind- 
sor, Conn.  He  and  Cynthia  live  in  West 
Suf  field. 

Wayne  Civinskas  is  now  a  design  engi- 
neer in  the  Digital  Systems  Development 
Group  at  rca  Automated  Systems  in 
Burlington,  Mass.  He  has  an  msee  from  WPI. 

Dr  Ismael  Colon  was  recently  advanced 
to  project  scientist  in  the  Coatings  Materials 
Division  of  Union  Carbide  Corporation's 
Botmd  Brook  research  facility  in  New  Jersey. 
He  holds  a  pho  from  WPI  and  a  bs  from  Fair- 
field University.  Prior  to  joLning  Union  Car- 
bide in  1977,  he  was  an  assistant  professor  of 
chemistry  at  WPI. 

Bill  Cunningham  has  a  summer  job  as  a 
marketing  consultant  to  the  computer  and 
telecommimications  industries  at  Pactel,  Inc. 
in  Princeton,  N.J.  He  attends  Tuck  School  at 

Dartmouth Michael  DiMascio  is  a 

fire  protection  engineer  for  the  City  of  Red- 
wood City  in  California Richard 

Garstka  was  recently  promoted  to  systems 
consultant  within  the  systems  organization  at 
State  Mutual  Life  Assurance  Company  of 
America,  Worcester.  He  joined  the  company 

last  year  as  a  senior  systems  analyst 

John  Harvey  continues  as  construction  man- 
ager at  Francis  Harvey  &  Sons,  Inc., 
Worcester.  He  and  Elizabeth  have  two 
children. 

John  Hjort  serves  as  an  associate 
engineer-programmer  at  ibm  in  Essex  Jimc- 
tion,  Vermont Jeri  Hodsdon  is  em- 
ployed as  senior  manufacturing  engineer  at 
Data  Packaging  Corp.  in  Cambridge,  Mass. 
....  Robert  Hyland  is  a  research  associate 
at  Temple  University  in  Philadelphia.  He 
holds  an  ma  in  biophysics  from  |ohns 
Hopkins. 

Rafael  Lai  serves  as  ingeniero  inspector 
for  the  City  of  Ciudad  Bolivar  in  Venezuela. 
Last  year,  he  received  his  msc:e  from  WPI. 


36/  Summer  I9H1  /  The  WPI  Journal 


....  Norman  Marshall  is  a  graduate  re- 
search assistant  at  Thayer  School  of 

Engineering,  Dartmouth  College 

Fred  Sowa  is  a  senior  project  engineer  at 

Clairol,  Stamford,  Conn Currently, 

Brian  Sttatouly  works  as  a  design  engineer  at 
Santa  Fe  Engineering  Service  Co.  in  Orange, 
Calif. 

)er-Shi  Ting  holds  the  position  of  manag- 
ing director  at  K.  Cotton  &l  Gauze  Co.,  Ltd., 

Bangkok,  Thailand George  Whitwell 

writes  that  he  has  one  more  year  at  Cornell 
before  receiving  his  pho  degree  in  inorganic 
chemistry. 

McRea  Willmert  serves  as  a  process  engi- 
neer at  Great  Western  Silicon,  Chandler, 
Arizona. 


1978 


►  Bom:  to  Marcy  and  Ronald  E.  Fish  their 
first  child,  Seth  David,  on  Jantiary  31,  1981. 
Fish  is  currently  employed  as  an  avionics  de- 
sign engineer  by  Northrop  Corp.,  Hawthorne, 
Calif. 

Lt/jg  Bramwell  Arnold,  Jr.  continues  as  a 
pilot  with  the  U.S.  Navy.  Presently,  he  is  fly- 
ing a  Navy  A-7E  on  board  the  uss  Midway, 

homeported  in  Yokuska,  Japan 

1/Lt,  Richard  Bourgault  serves  as  an  execu- 
tive officer  for  the  U.S.  Army  in  West  Ger- 
many  Richard  Carpenter  is  a  senior 

project  engineer  at  Hamilton  Test  Systems, 
Tucson,  Arizona. 

Jayne  Franciose  holds  the  post  of  biomed- 
ical engineer  at  the  Hospital  for  Special  Sur- 
gery in  New  York  City.  Last  year,  she  received 

j    her  MS  from  WPI John  Freebum,  Jr. 

I     works  as  an  electrical  design  engineer  at 
'     Coulter  Biomedical  in  Concord,  Mass.  He 
and  Mary  reside  in  Cherry  Valley. 

Peter  Gibbons  is  employed  as  a  develop- 
j     ment  engineer  at  McLaren  Engines,  Livonia, 

I    Michigan Jeffrey  Hovhanesian  is 

i     employed  at  the  Naval  Underwater  Systems 

Center  in  New  London,  Conn 

William  Kaknes  is  a  graduate  student  and 
;     teaching  assistant  in  the  Department  of 
;     Mathematics  and  Statistics  at  the  University 
of  Massachusetts,  Amherst. 

Dennis  Kelly  works  for  Bechtel  Corp., 

Gaithersburg,  Md Bob  Kerry  works 

as  a  project  engineer  for  the  Professional  Serv- 
ices Group  in  Forestville,  Md.  He  is  involved 
in  sewer  system  evaluation  surveys  and  flow 
I     monitoring  programs  in  Washington,  D.C., 

'     Virginia,  and  Maryland Francis  Lut- 

tazi  works  as  a  structural  engineer  at  Camp 
Dresser  &  McKee,  Boston. 

Stephan  Mezak  is  now  manager  of  soft- 
ware development  for  Compact  Engineering- 
Comsat,  in  Palo  Alto,  Calif Rory 

O'Connor  is  a  senior  software  editor  at  Com- 
puter Business  News  in  Palo  Alto,  Calif. 


....  Robert  Pierce,  Jr.  continues  as  an 
associate  engineer  at  Babcock  &l  Wilcox,  Bar- 

berton,  Ohio Wiebe  Postema  still 

works  with  Rockwell  International  as  a  mem- 
ber of  Technical  Staff  n  on  components  re- 
lated to  energy  production. 

Robert  Raslavsky  now  serves  as  a  trans- 
portation plarmer  in  the  Anne  Anmdel 
County  planning  and  zoning  office  in  Anna- 
polis, Md.  Formerly,  he  was  pedestrian  safety 

coordinator  for  Baltimore  City 

Kermeth  Rass  works  as  a  shift  technical  advi- 
sor at  Mississippi  Power  &  Light  in  Port 
Gibson,  MS.  He  and  Susan  have  two  children 
and  reside  in  Vicksburg. 

Newell  Stamm,  Jr.  recently  moved  back 
to  Connecticut  to  join  the  family  business, 
Stamm  Construction.  He  is  chairman  of  con- 
tinuing education  for  the  Cormecticut  section 

of  the  ASCE Dan  Tarpley  is  a  marine 

engineer  at  Bath  Iron  Works,  Bath,  Maine. 

Currently,  Bettina  Tuttle  serves  as  a  re- 
search engineer  at  Exxon  Research  &  Devel- 
opment Laboratories  in  Baton  Rouge,  La. 
....  Wesley  Wheeler  is  returning  to 
Florham  Park,  N.J.  to  work  for  Exxon  Re- 
search 61  Engineering  Co.  after  completing 
two  years  in  London.  He  was  responsible  for 
preliminary  project  planning  and  contractor 
foUowup  for  Esso  refinery  projects  in  Europe. 

Steven  Wolfe  is  an  O.S.  engineer  at  hds 
Research  in  San  Carlos,  Calif.  Last  year  he  re- 
ceived his  MS  in  computer  science 

Randall  Wyatt  is  an  application  engineer  at  ge 
in  Schenectady. 

Sandra  Wyman  has  joined  Air  Products 
and  Chemicals,  Inc.  in  Allentown,  Pa.,  where 
she  is  a  development  engineer  in  the  applied 

R&D  group Greg  Yeo  works  for  Exxon 

Chemical  Co.,  Florham  Park,  N.J.  He  and  his 
wife  reside  in  East  Hanover. 


r979 


In  January,  John  Arnold  joined  Digital  Equip- 
ment Corporation  as  a  programmer-analyst  in 
the  Distribution  Systems  Group  located  in 

Northboro,  Mass Stephen  Clarkin  is 

a  project  engineer  for  Exxon  Chemical  Co., 
Florham  Park,  N.J. 

Richard  Durand,  Jr.  is  a  second-year  graduate 
student  pursing  his  PhD  in  chemistry  at  Cali- 
fornia Institute  of  Technology  in  Pasadena. 
....  Mary  Farren  is  studying  for  her  mba  at 

Union  College Eugenia  Fernandez 

works  as  a  technical  representative  n  for 
Kemper  Group  in  Southfield,  Mich. 

John  Fitzgerald  is  a  self-employed  engi- 
neer with  Erin  Associates  in  Shelton,  Conn. 
....  Michael  Foisey  is  a  wastewater 
consultant  at  the  Providence  wastewater 
treatment  plant,  affiliated  with  Charles  J. 
Krasnoff  &.  Associates,  Providence,  R.I. 
....  Robert  Hart  serves  as  a  sales  engineer 
at  Trane  Co.,  City  of  Industry,  Calif.  He  is 
chairman  of  the  Los  Angeles  Jimior  Chamber 
Pro-Star's  basketball  committee. 

Paul  Henderson,  who  is  married  to  Lisa 
Rawstron,  daughter  of  William  Rawstron, 
'57,  is  a  research  and  development  engineer 
at  Raytheon  Co.,  Equipment  Division,  Way- 
land,  Mass James  Hosford  works  for 

Western  Electric  in  AllentovkTi,  Pa 


Christine  Ingalls  works  as  a  junior  analysis 
engineer  at  itt  Grinnell  in  Providence,  R.I. 

Joseph  Kintz  is  employed  as  a  staff  met- 
allurgist at  Mass.  Materials  Research  in  West 

Boylston,  Mass Robert  Lamoureux 

holds  the  post  of  vice  president  of  engineering 
at  Omni  Computer  Resources,  East  Provi- 
dence, R.I Henry  Lapa  is  presently  a 

student  Naval  flight  officer  in  Pensacola,  Fla. 

In  April,  James  MiDer  received  his  msee 
from  Stanford  University  in  California.  Pres- 
ently, he  is  a  member  of  the  technical  staff  at 

TASC,  Reading,  Mass Peter  Morico  is 

employed  as  a  components  engineer  at 
Hughes  Aircraft  in  Culver  City,  Calif. 
....  Stephen  Olson  is  an  associate  engi- 
neer for  Thiokol  Corp.  in  Promontory,  Utah. 

John  Osborne  is  concerned  with  market- 
ing at  GE  in  Roanoake,  Va Stephen 

Prawdzik  works  as  a  sales  engineer  for  ge  in 
Denver Maria  Rico  is  a  graduate  stu- 
dent in  biomedical  engineering  at  WPI. 

Formerly  with  Texas  Instruments  in 
Houston,  Glenn  Robertson  was  recently  pro- 
moted to  senior  engineer  at  National  Semi- 
conductor in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Thomas  Soszynski,  a  pilot  with  the  usaf,  is 
being  assigned  to  Plattsburgh  afb,  N.Y.  in 
July.  Last  March,  he  received  his  aeronautical 
rating  at  Columbus  afb.  Miss. 

David  Tellier  works  as  an  estimator- 
project  manager  at  AC  and  S  Contracting  in 

Wethersfield,  Conn David  West 

holds  the  post  of  assistant  track  supervisor  at 
Conrail.  He  is  located  in  Rutherford,  N.J. 
....  Karen  Wright  is  employed  as  a  soft- 
ware engineer  at  Simmonds  Precision,  Inc., 
Vergennes,  Vt. 


1980 


►  Married:  Michael  T.  Bergeron  to  Kathleen 
M.  Flanagan  on  May  2,  1981  in  Barrington, 
Rhode  Island.  The  bride  has  a  degree  in  social 
service  from  Becker.  She  is  employed  by  the 
Old  Grist  Mill  Tavern.  The  bridegroom  is 
with  Leominster  Tool  Company,  Inc. 
....  Constance  P.  Creedon  and  Robert  J. 
Bartelson  in  Worcester  on  December  27, 
1980.  Mrs.  Bartelson  holds  a  degree  in  coun- 
seling from  Worcester  State  College  and  a 
master's  degree  in  mathematics  from  WPI. 
She  is  a  mathematics  teacher  at  Shrewsbury 
Senior  High  School.  The  bridegroom  has  a 
master's  degree  from  Worcester  State,  and 
also  studied  at  Holy  Cross,  Newton  College 
of  the  Sacred  Heart,  and  Clark  University.  He 
teaches  science  at  Medway  High  School. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summei  1981  /  37 


neer  at  E.D.S.  Nuclear,  a  subsidiary  of  Impel! 
Corp.,  San  Francisco. 

Ethan  Luce  is  employed  as  a  design  analysis 
engineer  at  Sikorsky  Aircraft,  Stratford,  CT. 

Brian  McLane  works  as  a  design  engineer  at 
Lexidata  Corporation  in  Billerica,  MA. 

Jennifer  Pollard  is  an  assistant  civil  engineer 
for  the  New  York  State  Dept.  of  Transporta- 
tion. 

Stephen  Superson  is  a  design  engineer  for 
Teledyne  Engineering  Services,  Waltham,  MA. 

Gary  Sylvestre  serves  as  a  project  manager 
at  Barclay's  American  Business  Credit,  Inc., 
East  Hartford,  CT. 

Jeffrey  Wakefield  is  product  manager  at 
Data  Terminal  Systems,  Maynard,  MA. 


1979 


MARRIED:  Gary  Doyle  and  Janet  Stark  last 
September.  Both  are  senior  associate  engi- 
neers at  IBM  in  Essex  Junction,  VT.  .  .  .  Earl 
B.  Ingham  and  Cheryl  L.  Nugent  on  January 
9,  1982  in  Granby,  MA.  The  bride,  an 
ophthalmic  technician  for  Dr.  Robert  Dono- 
hue,  graduated  from  Holyoke  Community  Col- 
lege. Earl  is  employed  by  Aetna  Life  and  Cas- 
ualty Co.,  Springfield,  MA.  .  .  .  George  R. 
Tompsett,  III,  and  Carla  Ann  Ranney  in  Broad 
Brook,  CT,  on  April  24,  1982.  Mrs.  Tompsett 
graduated  from  Windsor  Locks  High  School 
and  is  an  operations  clerk  for  Hamilton  Stan- 
dard Division  of  United  Technologies,  Wind- 
sor Locks,  CT.  George  is  a  process  and  meth- 
ods engineer  at  Hamilton  Standard. 

BORN:  to  Andrea  and  William  R.  Herman 
a  son,  Bryan  William,  on  March  31,  1981.  Her- 
man is  now  a  senior  staff  member  at  Arthur 
Andersen  Company,  Hartford,  CT. 

Jeff  Boike  continues  as  a  manufacturing 
process  engineer  at  UOP  in  McCook,  IL.  He 
and  his  wife,  Mary  Lynn,  reside  in  Hinsdale. 

Glenn  Braunstein  holds  the  post  of  devel- 
opment engineer  at  Goodyear  Tire  &  Rubber 
Co.,  Akron,  OH. 

John  Donahue  is  employed  as  an  electric 
studies  engineer  at  Niagara  Mohawk  Power 
Company,  Syracuse,  NY. 

Donna  Graves  is  systems  marketing  manager 
at  Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Merrimack,  NH. 

Bruce  Jenket,  who  was  promoted  to  It.j.g. 
last  November,  has  returned  from  deployment 
in  which  he  visited  Japan,  Guam,  Hong  Kong 
and  the  Philippines.  Currently  he  is  an  assistant 
in  the  Reactor  Controls  Division  of  the  U.S. 
Navy,  stationed  at  Pearl  Harbor. 

Donald  Larson  works  as  a  product  marketing 
specialist  at  GCA  Corporation.  He  is  located 
in  Bedford,  MA. 

Jeff  Mills  designs  oil  refineries  for  UOP,  Inc. 
He  resides  near  Chicago. 

Gary  Pearson  serves  as  New  England  sales 
representative  for  Priam  Corporation  of  Need- 
ham,  MA. 

Ronald  Roth  is  employed  as  a  product  en- 
gineer at  Honeywell  in  Lexington,  MA. 

Lt.  Jason  Tuell  serves  as  a  numerical  pre- 
diction meteorologist  for  the  USAF  at  Offutt 
AFB,  NE. 

George  Wespi  continues  as  an  associate  en- 
gineer at  Riley  Stoker  Corp.,  Worcester. 

Priscilla  Young  is  studying  for  her  master's 
degree  in  environmental  engineering  at  Cor- 
nell University. 


1980 


MARRIED:  Robert  W.  Dreyfoos  and  Martine 
B.  Vray  in  Worcester  on  September  26,  1981. 
Mrs.  Dreyfoos,  a  graduate  of  Worcester  State 
College,  is  an  inspector  for  the  Palm  Beach 
(FL)  County  Health  JDepartment.  He  is  a  de- 
sign engineer  for  Photo  Electronics  Corp.,  West 
Palm  Beach. 

Mihran  Aroian  is  a  research  technician  at 
WPI. 

Theodore  Crowley  holds  the  post  of  manager 
of  language  products  at  C.S.P.  Inc.,  Billerica, 
MA. 

David  Fox  works  as  a  software  engineer  at 
Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Merrimack,  NH. 

Currently,  Richard  Goldman  is  a  student  at 
the  University  of  Connecticut  School  of  Law 
in  West  Hartford. 

Michael  Herberg  continues  with  GE  in  Sche- 
nectady. Earher  he  had  been  assigned  to  the 
Waterford  plant. 

Arthur  Haggard,  process  engineer  at  Mon- 
santo Plastics  &  Resins,  Springfield,  MA,  re- 
cently received  the  Monsanto  Employee 
Achievement  Award. 

Stephen  Kmiotek  is  a  chemical  engineer  at 
Cabot  Corp.  He  is  located  in  Billerica,  MA. 

Kenneth  Mandile  holds  the  position  of  vice 
president  at  J.B.M.  Swiss  Screw  Co.,  Inc., 
Waltham,  MA. 

John  Roche,  still  with  Micro  Networks,  is 
now  thin-film  engineering  supervisor  at  the 
Worcester  firm. 

Doreen  Savieira  holds  the  post  of  planning 
engineer  at  Western  Electric  Co.,  North  An- 
dover,  MA. 

Jeffrey  Smits  continues  as  a  member  of  the 
technical  staff  at  Bell  Labs  in  Holmdel,  NJ. 

Mike  Stone  continues  as  associate  editor  of 
Car  &  Driver's  Buyers  Guide  and  Cars  mag- 
azine. He  is  also  vice  president  of  TMS  Com- 
puter Services  and  the  author  of  two  books: 
Mopedaller's  Handy  Manual  and  Your  Four,  a 
guide  to  four-cylinder  motorcycles.  The  Stones 
reside  in  Danbury,  CT. 

David  Sulkin  serves  as  a  design  engineer  at 
Hamilton  Standard,  Windsor  Locks,  CT. 

James  Torrey,  Jr.,  serves  as  a  maintainabil- 
ity engineer  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp. ,  Marl- 
boro, MA. 

Marianne  Wessling  continues  as  a  doctoral 
candidate  in  the  department  of  biophysics  and 
theoretical  biology  at  the  University  of  Chi- 
cago. 

Lisa  Wylie  is  a  staff  member  at  Western 
Electric  Co.,  North  Andover,  MA. 


1981 


MARRIED:  Richard  F.  Condon,  Jr.,  and  Linda 
J.  Michaud  in  Townsend,  MA,  on  April  24,  1982. 
Rich  is  a  photographic  engineer  at  Kodak,  Roch- 
ester, NY.  .  .  .  David  R.  Lamborghini  to  Helen 
Aadland  in  Fairhaven,  MA,  on  January  9,  1982. 
Mrs.  Lamborghini  graduated  from  Fairhaven  High 
School.  David  is  with  Procter  &  Gamble,  Ouincy. 
.  .  .  Steven  M.  McDonald  and  Pamela  J.  Loftus 
on  January  16,  1982  in  Worcester.  The  bride  is 
a  student  at  Becker  Junior  College.  Steve  is  with 
Data  General  in  Westboro.  .  .  .  Joseph  P.  Nor- 
man, III,  and  Susan  A.  Bish  in  Springfield,  MA, 
on  December  27,  1981.  The  bride  has  an  AS 


degree  in  medical  assisting  from  Becker  Junior 
College.  Joe  is  a  structural  engineer  at  McDer- 
mott.  Inc.,  New  Orleans,  LA.  .  .  .  Scott  A.  Sar- 
gis  and  Karen  L.  Richardson  in  Leominster,  MA, 
on  February  5,  1982.  Mrs.  Sargis  graduated  from 
Becker.  Scott  is  a  mechanical  engineer  with 
Chevron  Chemical  Corp.  in  New  Orleans. 

Anthony  Cabral  is  a  student  at  Carnegie- 
Mellon  University,  Pittsburgh,  PA. 

Cindy  Canistro  works  as  a  project  engineer 
at  GE  Plastics  in  Pittsfield,  MA. 

James  Connor  is  a  sales  engineer  for  Ad- 
vanced Micro  Devices  in  Sunnyvale,  CA. 

Dan  Doherty,  Jr.,  works  as  a  senior  technical 
marketing  specialist  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp., 
Marlboro,  MA. 

Ethan  Foster  holds  the  post  of  programmer/ 
analyst  at  the  Laboratory  of  Computer  Sci- 
ence, Massachusetts  General  Hospital,  Bos- 
ton. 

Currently,  James  Geib  is  a  design  engineer 
at  Winchester  Electronics.  He  is  located  in 
Watertown,  CT. 

Robert  Hess  has  joined  the  Methods/Facili- 
ties Branch  in  the  Production  Department,  De- 
partment of  the  Navy,  Norfolk  Naval  Shipyard, 
Portsmouth,  VA. 

Peter  Hinckley  has  been  employed  as  a  prod- 
uct engineer  at  The  Torrington  Company,  Tor- 
rington,  CT. 

Keith  Mazzarese  works  as  a  field  engineer 
for  Stone  &  Webster  in  Waterford,  CT. 

William  Miller  holds  the  post  of  sales  engi- 
neer at  Westinghouse  Electric  in  Framingham, 
MA. 

David  Oriol  is  now  an  associate  at  Manufac- 
turer's Business  Systems,  Inc.,  Worcester. 

Frank  Polito  is  part  of  the  technical  staff  as- 
signed to  the  digital  lines  department  at  Bell 
Laboratories,  North  Andover,  MA. 

Timothy  Shea  works  as  a  scheduling  engineer 
for  Crawford  &  Russell,  Inc.,  of  Stamford,  CT. 

Jeffrey  Smith  is  a  planning  and  systems  an- 
alyst-manager at  Dresser  Atlas  in  Houston,  TX. 

Peter  Tiziani  is  a  design  engineer  for  Com- 
bustion Engineering  in  Windsor,  CT. 

David  'Valardi  serves  as  a  field  engineer  at 
Dresser  Atlas  in  Rayne,  LA. 

Robert  Wright  holds  the  post  of  assistant  en- 
gineer at  New  England  Power  Service  Com- 
pany in  Worcester. 


School  of 

Industrial  Management 

Clifford  Pontbriand,  '58,  continues  as  manager 
of  frame  operations  at  Pennsylvania  Optical 
Co.,  Reading,  PA.  ..  .  William  Barlow,  '65, 
has  been  elected  executive  vice  president  at 
Wyman-Gordon  in  Worcester.  He  joined  the 
company  in  1943  and  has  worked  in  engineer- 
ing, manufacturing  and  senior  management 
jobs.  .  .  .  Leo  St.  Denis,  '65,  has  been  pro- 
moted to  manager  of  quality  control  at  An- 
derson Operations-Bay  State  Abrasives  Divi- 
sion, Worcester.  He  has  an  associate's  degree 
in  mechanical  engineering  from  Worcester 
Junior  College.  .  .  .  Ernest  Anger,  Jr.,  '78,  has 
been  appointed  manager  of  system  develop- 
ment at  Bay  State  Abrasives  Division,  Dresser 
Industries,  Westboro,  MA.  He  graduated  from 
Wentworth  Institute  and  joined  Bay  State  in 
1958  as  an  engineering  technician. 


38 


WPI  lOlJRNAL 


Natural  Science 
Program 


In  January  Worcester  State  College  physics 
professor  Robert  Kelley,  '60,  courtesy  of  the 
U.S.  Navy,  joined  36  college  instructors  from 
all  over  the  country  at  Cape  Canaveral  to  get 
a  firsthand  look  at  the  "new  nuclear  Navy." 


One  of  the  highlights  of  the  visit  was  an  op- 
portunity to  witness  a  simulated  missile  launch 
from  a  nuclear-powered  submarine.  .  .  .  Ralph 
Southwick,  '66,  teaches  science  at  Jefferson 
(MA)  Middle  School.  .  .  .  Philip  Wilson,  '78, 
continues  teaching  at  Lynnfield  High  School, 
Lynnfield,  MA.  .  .  .  William  Johnson,  Jr.,  '81, 
is  a  teacher  at  Rockport  High  School,  Rock- 
port,  MA. 


COMPLETED  CAREERS 


David  E.  Carpenter,  '11,  of  Agawam,  MA,  a 
long-time  employee  of  Westinghouse,  died  on 
April  1,  1982  at  the  age  of  93. 

Except  for  four  years  with  Buckeye  Prod- 
ucts, Mr.  Carpenter  was  with  Westinghouse 
Electric  Corp.  from  1911  until  his  retirement. 
He  earned  the  company's  highest  honor,  the 
Silver  "W"  Order  of  Merit,  and  held  a  patent 
on  a  winding  machine  to  automate  the  winding 
of  motor  stators  and  rotors.  In  1955  he  retired 
as  a  consulting  manufacturing  engineer. 

A.  Hugh  Reid,  '11,  of  Worcester,  class  vice 
president,  passed  away  recently. 

He  was  born  on  July  7,  1889  in  Worcester. 
Graduated  from  WPI  as  a  mechanical  engi- 
neer, he  was  retired  from  CF&I  Steel  Corp. 
and  belonged  to  the  Tech  Old  Timers  and  Sigma 
Xi. 

Alfred  R.  Kinney,  '12,  of  Blacksburg,  VA,  a 
long-time  employee  of  the  U.S.  Forest  Service, 
died  February  3,  1982.  He  was  92. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  received  a  BSCE 
from  WPI.  During  his  career  with  the  U.S. 
Forest  Service,  he  served  as  examiner  of  sur- 
veys in  West  Virginia,  Virginia  and  Pennsyl- 
vania and  as  chief  land  examiner  in  the  Unaka 
and  Pisgah  National  Forests  situated  in  Vir- 
ginia, Tennessee  and  North  Carohna. 

Roland  H.  Dufault,  '14,  of  Wellesley  Hills,  MA, 
president  of  the  Class  of  1914,  died  on  January 
31,  1982. 

"Mike"  graduated  with  his  BS  in  chemistry 
from  WPI,  then  worked  for  three  years  at  J. 
Russel  Marble  &  Co. ,  Worcester.  During  World 
War  I  he  was  a  major  in  the  U.S.  Army.  From 
1919  until  1953  when  he  retired  as  branch  man- 
ager in  New  York  City,  he  was  with  du  Pont. 

He  had  been  a  member  of  the  New  York 
Board  of  Trade,  the  Chemists  Club  of  New 
York,  Tau  Beta  Pi  and  Sigma  Xi.  A  native  of 
Spencer,  MA,  he  was  89.  He  was  a  former  WPI 
Alumni  Council  representative  from  Philadel- 
phia and  a  member  of  the  Tech  Old  Timers. 

William  J.  Becker,  Jr.,  '15,  of  Kansas  City, 
MO,  passed  away  recently.  He  was  89. 

During  his  career,  he  was  employed  by  But- 
terworth  Judson,  Midwest  Refining  Co.,  Gen- 
eral Engineering  and  Maintenance  Corp.  and 
Trojan  Engineering  Corp.  From  1932  until  he 
retired  in  1957,  he  was  with  Long  Island  Light- 
ing Co.,  where  he  rose  to  superintendent. 

Mr.  Becker,  a  Mason,  was  also  a  past  pres- 
ident of  his  local  Rotary  Club.  For  15  years  he 
was  active  with  the  BSA,  advancing  to  district 
director.  He  belonged  to  Theta  Chi  and  was  a 
World  War  I  Army  veteran. 


Simon  Collier,  '16,  a  retired  executive  from 
Johns-Manville  Corporation  and  resident  of  Los 
Angeles,  passed  away  in  December. 

Following  his  graduation  as  a  chemist  from 
WPI,  he  joined  the  Boston  Belting  Company. 
Later  employers  were  the  National  Bureau  of 
Standards,  Washington,  DC,  Johns-Manville, 
from  which  he  retired  as  director  of  quality 
control  in  1959,  and  UCLA,  where  he  was  an 
associate  professor-lecturer.  A  nationally  known 
authority  in  the  field  of  industrial  quality  con- 
trol, he  specialized  in  quality  control  consulting 
in  asbestos  fiber  and  products.  Papers  on  his 
specialty  were  published  in  various  profes- 
sional magazines. 

Mr.  Collier  was  born  on  June  1 ,  1894  in  Salem, 
MA. 

Edwin  W.  Bemis,  '19,  of  Brick  Town,  NJ,  died 
recently. 

After  graduating  as  an  electrical  engineer, 
he  did  part-time  graduate  work  at  WPI.  From 
1920  to  1962  he  was  on  the  headquarters  staff 
at  American  Telephone  &  Telegraph  Co.  He 
joined  ITT  in  1962  and  retired  in  1968. 

Mr.  Bemis  was  born  July  19,  1897  in  Hol- 
yoke,  MA.  He  was  a  senior  member  of  IEEE 
and  belonged  to  Tau  Beta  Pi  and  Sigma  Xi. 
He  served  as  secretary  of  the  Class  of  1919.  He 
was  a  former  secretary  of  the  New  York  Chap- 
ter of  the  WPI  Alunini  Association. 

Roy  H.  Carpenter,  '19,  of  Wooster,  OH,  died 
on  July  4,  1981. 

He  was  born  on  September  11,  1897  in  War- 
ren, MA,  and  graduated  with  a  BS  in  chem- 
istry. In  1929  he  received  his  MA  from  Colum- 
bia University. 

After  teaching  in  several  high  schools  in 
Maryland,  Massachusetts  and  Connecticut,  he 
taught  at  Ossining  (NY)  High  School  from  1929 
to  1945.  From  1945  to- 1964,  when  he  retired, 
he  was  principal  at  Roosevelt  School  in  Ossin- 
ing. Mr.  Carpenter  belonged  to  the  Masons 
and  to  the  Ossining  Board  of  Education. 

Dana  D.  Goodwin,  '19,  of  Fitchburg,  MA,  the 
retired  president  of  W.  C.  Goodwin,  Inc.,  died 
April  17,  1982. 

A  Fitchburg  native,  he  was  born  on  October 
5,  1897  and  later  studied  electrical  engineering 
at  WPI.  During  his  career,  he  was  affiliated 
with  the  Rock  Island  (IL)  Arsenal  and  Simonds 
Mfg.  Co.  For  many  years  he  was  the  self-em- 
ployed president  of  W.  C.  Goodwin,  Inc.,  a 
retail  shoe  store  in  Fitchburg. 

Mr.  Goodwin  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappa 
and  the  Masons.  He  was  a  former  vice  presi- 
dent of  the  Worcester  County  Alumni  Club  of 
the  WPI  Alumni  Association. 


Arthur  W.  Bassett,  '20,  of  Lititz,  PA,  passed 
away  on  January  29,  1982. 

In  1962  he  retired  as  chief  of  power  engi- 
neering at  Armstrong  World  Industries,  where 
he  had  been  employed  since  1929.  Previously, 
he  was  with  Pennsylvania  Power  and  Light  Co. 
and  New  Jersey  Zinc  Co. 

He  was  born  on  January  4,  1897  in  Heath, 
MA,  and  received  a  BSME  from  WPI.  He  be- 
longed to  the  Masons,  the  Shrine,  the  National 
Association  of  Professional  Engineers  and  Sigma 
Phi  Epsilon.  Formerly  he  served  as  president 
of  the  local  chapter  of  the  American  Business 
Club. 

David  W.  Dimmock,  '22,  died  Christmas  Day 
at  his  home  in  Hatchville,  MA,  following  a  long 
illness.  He  was  80. 

Before  retiring  in  1959,  he  taught  mathe- 
matics in  the  Falmouth  school  system  for  15 
years.  For  40  years  he  operated  a  farm  in 
Hatchville.  He  was  born  on  February  21,  1901 
in  Pocasset,  MA. 

Austin  J.  Ball,  '25,  died  March  9, 1982  in  Hack- 
ettstown,  NJ,  at  the  age  of  78. 

A  native  of  Clinton,  MA,  he  was  born  on 
May  28,  1903.  In  1925  he  graduated  as  an  elec- 
trical engineer  from  WPI.  For  many  years  he 
was  employed  by  Consolidated  Edison  of  New 
York  City.  He  retired  in  1975. 

John  J.  McAuliffe,  '25,  of  Walnut  Creek,  CA, 
passed  away  recently. 

A  native  of  Massachusetts,  he  was  born  on 
January  31,  1903.  He  graduated  from  WPI  as 
an  electrical  engineer.  For  a  number  of  years 
he  was  with  General  Electric  in  Schenectady, 
NY,  and  Westinghouse  in  Sunnyvale,  CA.  At 
his  retirement  he  was  an  operations  analyst  at 
Stanford  Research  Institute  in  Menlo  Park.  He 
belonged  to  ATO  and  Skull. 

Theodore  D.  Schoonmaker,  '26,  of  Northboro, 
MA,  a  retired  sales  manager  for  Massachusetts 
Electric  Co.,  died  on  February  16,  1982  in 
Marlboro  Hospital.  He  was  79. 

Following  his  graduation  as  an  electrical  en- 
gineer, he  joined  Maiden  Electric  Co.  From 
1940  to  1944  he  was  an  appraisal  engineer  for 
the  North  Central  District  of  the  New  England 
Electric  System.  Later  he  was  associated  with 
the  power  sales  department  and  then  became 
commercial  sales  manager.  He  retired  from 
Massachusetts  Electric  in  1967. 

Mr.  Schoonmaker  was  a  member  of  the  Ma- 
sons, Trinity  Church  (former  deacon)  and  the 
Tech  Old  Timers.  He  had  served  on  the  Mu- 
nicipal Code  and  Bylaw  Committee  of  North- 
boro. He  was  the  father  of  Paul  Schoonmaker, 
'56,  and  was  bom  on  February  18,  1902  in  Hyde 
Park,  MA. 

Albert  A.  Baron,  '30,  a  retired  manager  for 
U.S.  Envelope  Co.,  died  on  March  16,  1982  at 
his  home  in  Alhambra,  CA. 

He  joined  the  Kellogg  Division  of  U.S.  En- 
velope in  1929  and  was  made  plant  manager  in 
Springfield,  MA,  when  the  plant  had  over  1000 
employees.  He  also  was  plant  manager  in  At- 
lanta, GA,  and  Worcester  and  had  been  pro- 
duction control  manager  for  the  firm  in  Los 
Angeles,  as  well  as  western  region  sales  rep- 
resentative. 

Mr.  Baron,  a  member  of  AEPi,  was  born 
March  10,  1907  in  Bristol,  RI.  He  received  his 


AUGUST  1982 


39 


Clarence  A.  R.  Lundquist,  '23,  a  retired  gen- 
eral superintendent  of  Thompson  Wire  Co., 
died  in  St.  Petersburg,  Florida  on  October  7, 
1980. 

After  receiving  his  bsm£  in  1923,  he 
joined  Wickwire  Spencer  Steel  Corp.  as  de- 
partment superintendent.  From  1925  to  1961 
he  was  general  superintendent  at  Thompson 
Wire  Co.,  Worcester. 

He  belonged  to  the  Worcester  Engineer- 
ing Society,  the  Nonh  Worcester  Aid  Society, 
the  Masons,  and  the  Elks.  A  native  of  Worces- 
ter, he  wiLS  bom  on  Jime  1,  1901. 

Clarence  E.  Anderson,  '24,  died  in  Charlottes- 
ville, Virginia  on  April  16,  1981. 

In  1965,  he  retired  as  general  sales  man- 
ager of  the  Virginia  Electric  and  Power  Co. 
He  began  in  1926  as  the  business  manager  for 
Virginia  Public  Service.  When  that  company 
merged  with  Virginia  Electric  and  Power  Co. 
in  1944,  he  became  the  director  of  commer- 
cial and  industrial  sales  for  the  company's 
western  and  nonhem  divisions. 

After  serving  as  a  systems  director  in 
Richmond,  Va.,  in  1956  he  became  manager 
of  sales  promotions.  Later,  he  was  made  gen- 
eral sales  manager.  Early  in  his  career,  he  had 
been  with  ge  and  ConsoUdated  Power  & 
Light. 

Mr.  Anderson  was  bom  on  July  23,  1900 
in  Worcester,  and  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma 
Kappa.  At  one  time,  he  was  vice  president  of 
the  Washington  chapter  of  the  WPl  Alumni 
Association. 

Kenneth  G.  Broman,  '25,  of  New  Boston, 

New  Hampshire  died  on  April  5,  1981. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  Class  of  1925. 
During  his  career,  he  was  with  Matthews 
Mfg.  Co.,  Worcester,  and  Miniature  Precision 
Bearing  Co.,  Keene,  N.H. 

Merle  E.  Hutchins,  '25,  died  unexpectedly 
while  visiting  in  San  Francisco,  California  on 
May  7,  1981. 

He  was  bom  on  Jan.  28,  1903  in 
Haverhill,  Mass.  In  1925,  he  graduated  as  a 
mechanical  engineer  from  WPI.  From  1926  to 
1934  he  was  a  metallurgist  for  the  Aluminum 
Co.  of  America,  New  Kensington,  Pa.  He  was 
then  chief  metallurgist  for  Mirro  Aluminum 
Co.,  Manitowoc,  Wise,  from  which  he  re- 
tired in  1968. 

Active  in  Masonic  work,  he  was  thrice  il- 
lustrious master,  an  eminent  commander, 
and  a  recipient  of  the  Honorary  Degree, 
Knights  of  the  York  Cross  of  Honour.  A  Royal 
Arch  Knight  Templar  Priest,  he  wrote  a  book 
about  his  local  hxlgc,  A  Century  of  Masonry 
I18S&1956)  He  belonged  to  Theta  Chi.  In 
1926,  he  received  his  ms  from  mix 

John  S.  Miller,  '26,  passed  away  in  Tor- 
rington,  Connecticut  on  May  17,  1981    He 
was  77  years  old. 

IXiring  his  lifetime,  he  was  employed  by 
the  New  York,  New  Haven  &.  Hartford  Rail- 
road and  the  Alfred  B   King  Steel  Erectors  Co. 
in  New  Haven   Prior  to  his  retirement,  he 
had  been  assistant  manufacturing  manager  in 
the  bearing  division  of  The  Tomngton  Co 

Mr  Miller  was  bom  on  April  20,  1904  in 
Worcester,  and  graduated  with  his  bsf.f  in 
1926  He  was  a  former  director  of  the  United 
Way  and  the  Tomngton  C'ountry  Club,  as 
well  as  treasurer  of  the  Northwestern  Con- 
necticut Girl  Scout  Council 


Clarence  W.  Titus,  '28,  a  retired  chemical  en- 
gineer, died  March  4,  1981  in  New  Haven, 
Connecticut  at  the  age  of  75. 

He  was  bom  on  Ian.  5,  1906  in  Morris, 
Conn.,  and  later  became  a  member  of  the 
WPI  Class  of  1928.  Before  retiring  in  1968,  he 
had  been  chief  engineer  with  the  former  Con- 
necticut Koppers  Coke  Co.  for  over  40  years. 

Mr.  Titus  belonged  to  the  Republican 
Town  Committee,  the  Congregational 
Church,  and  the  National  Grange. 

Carl  F.  H.  Au,  '29,  of  Fon  Lauderdale,  Florida 
died  of  a  heart  attack  on  October  12,  1980. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  was  bom  on  lime 
6,  1903.  After  graduating  as  a  mechanical  en- 
gineer, he  worked  for  W.  &.  L.E.  Gurley,  then 
Carl  H.  Au  &  Son.  From  1931  to  1960,  when 
he  retired,  he  was  with  the  U.S.  Department 
of  Defense  in  Washington,  D.C. 

Clyde  T.  Smith,  '30,  of  Santa  Rosa,  California 
died  on  January  6,  1981. 

A  native  of  Rah  way,  N.I.,  he  was  bom  on 
April  2,  1907,  and  in  1930  received  his  BSME 
from  WPI.  For  four  years,  he  traveled  for 
Conde  Nast  selling  a  new  trade  and  fashion 
service  to  leading  department  stores  through- 
out the  country,  and  subsequently  became  a 
management  specialist.  At  one  time,  he  was 
associated  with  B.  Altman  in  New  York,  as 
well  as  with  Emerson  Engineers,  where  he 
was  a  consultant. 

Eventually,  he  became  shift  engineer, 
then  a  radio  transmitter  engineer  for  rca 
Global  Commimications  in  Rocky  Point, 
N.Y.  In  1972,  he  retired  from  rca. 

A  member  of  spe  and  The  American  Mar- 
keting Association,  Mr  Smith  also  belonged 
to  the  Toastmasters'  Club.  Hobbies  included 
a  part-time  vending  business,  stock  and  com- 
modity trading,  and  sailing. 

Francis  M.  Sullivan,  '32,  a  research  chemist 
who  perfected  vegetable  oils,  died  in 
Wilmington,  Delaware  on  April  27,  1981  at 
the  age  of  7 1 . 

His  career  centered  upon  chemical  and 
engineering  research,  desisn  and  develop- 
ment. Major  contributions  included  advances 
in  technology  of  the  processing  of  vegetable 
oils  for  conversion  to  food  products,  while  he 
was  with  Lever  Bros.  Co.  and  developments 
in  the  manufacture  of  Vitamin  Bl  and  Vita- 
min C,  while  with  Hoffman  LaRoche,  Inc. 

Other  firms  with  which  he  was  asso- 
ciated were  Allied  Chemical  Corp.,  du  Pont, 
and  Robertshaw  Controls.  After  retirement, 
he  was  a  self-employed  consultant.  He  was  a 
member  of  the  ajche,  American  Chemical  So- 
ciety, National  Society  of  Professional  Engi- 
neers, and  Phi  Kappa  Theta. 

He  was  bom  in  Springfield,  Mass.  on 
March  15,  1910.  In  1932,  he  received  his  bs  in 
chemistry  from  WPI,  and  in  1933,  his  ms 
from  MIT.  He  was  a  former  president  of  the 
nonhem  New  Jersey  chapter  of  the  WPI 
Alumni  A.ssociation. 


Robert  C.  Stickle,  '38  of  Parma  Heights,  Ohio 
passed  away  on  Febmar>'  11,  1981. 

In  1938,  he  graduated  as  a  civil  engineer. 
His  employers  included  Florence  Stove  Co., 
Niles  (Ohio)  Rolling  Mill  Co.,  and  the  Dow 
Chemical  Co.,  Midland,  Mich.  At  Dow,  he 
progressed  from  junior  engineer,  to  senior  de- 
sign engineer,  then  to  project  engineer  in  the 
engineering  section. 

He  belonged  to  the  nspe.  Midland  Engi- 
neering Society,  and  the  Society  of  American 
Military  Engineers.  He  was  bom  on  Jan.  31, 
1917  in  Brooklyn,  N.Y. 

Harold  L.  Crane,  '42,  a  former  aeronautical 
engineer  from  nasa's  Langley  Research  Cen- 
ter, died  in  Hampton,  Virginia  on  January  20, 
1981. 

He  retired  in  the  fall  of  1980,  having 
completed  38  years  at  naca-nasa.  He  worked 
in  the  stability  and  control  section  of  the 
Flight  Research  Division  and  was  responsible 
for  handling  qualities  studies  on  a  number  of 
World  War  H  fighters  and  bombers.  Most  re- 
cently, he  was  concerned  with  instrument 
flight  studies  on  general  aviation  aircraft.  His 
own  experience  as  a  private  pilot  helped  him 
evaluate  the  problems  encoimtered. 

Mr.  Crane  enjoyed  running  and  com- 
pleted two  half  marathons  last  year.  He  com- 
peted in  and  ran  many  model  airplane  events. 
He  also  played  golf,  sang  in  the  Methodist 
Church  choir,  and  played  the  piano  in  the 
Men's  Bible  Class  for  25  years. 

He  belonged  to  aiaa,  the  Academy  of 
Model  Aeronautics,  spe,  and  Sigma  Xi.  A 
Worcester  native,  he  was  bom  on  Aug.  8, 
1920.  In  1942,  he  received  his  bsme  from  WPI. 

James  M.  Femane,  '42,  died  February  16, 
1981  at  his  home  in  Washington,  D.C.  He 
was  63  years  old. 

From  1942,  imtil  he  retired  in  1976,  he 
served  as  an  electrical  and  radio  engineer  with 
the  Federal  Commimications  Commission  in 
Washington.  He  was  a  charter  member  of  the 
Washington  ymca  and  a  life  member  of  the 
American  Legion  and  the  Rifle  Association  of 
America. 

He  was  bom  on  December  11,  1917  in 
Worcester.  In  1942,  he  received  his  bsee  from 
WPI.  A  World  War  II  Navy  veteran,  he  be- 
longed to  the  Veterans  of  Foreign  Wars.  Also, 
he  was  a  member  of  the  National  Society  of 
Professional  Engineers,  Aircraft  Owners  and 
Pilots  Association,  the  Elks,  and  the  Knights 
of  Columbus. 

Dr.  Raymond  Wynkoop,  '42,  a  former 
director  of  corporate  research  at  Sun  Oil  Co. 
of  Philadelphia,  passed  away  at  his  home  in 
West  Barnstable,  Massachusetts  on  March  12, 
1981. 

After  graduating  as  a  chemical  engineer 
from  WPI,  he  subsequently  received  his  doc- 
torate as  a  Shell  fellow  from  Princeton  in 
1948.  He  belonged  to  .sae,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  and 
Sigma  Xi.  Also,  he  was  a  member  of  the 
American  Association  for  the  Advancement 
of  Sciences,  the  acs,  and  the  Society  of  Auto 
Engineers,  among  others.  He  was  past  presi- 
dent of  the  Philadelphia  Harvard  Business 
School  Club. 


40  /  Summer  1981  /  The  WPI  Inumal 


On  the  Cape,  he  belonged  to  the  Barnst- 
able Radio  Club,  the  Harvard  Club  of  Cape 
Cod,  and  the  Museum  of  National  History. 

During  his  career.  Dr.  Wynkoop  was 
with  Publicker  Industries  of  Philadelphia;  S. 
D.  Hicks  &.  Son  Co.,  Boston;  and  Tufts  Col- 
lege, Medford,  where  he  was  an  associate  pro- 
fessor. He  attended  DePaul  University  Law 
School  at  night  and  completed  all  of  the  de- 
gree requirements  except  for  the  final  disser- 
tation. Later,  he  attended  Harvard  University 
as  a  member  of  the  Advanced  Management 
Program. 

In  1958,  he  joined  Sun  Oil,  after  having 
served  as  assistant  to  the  president  of  the  for- 
mer Houdry  Process  Corporation  and  as  man- 
ager of  sales  for  Catalytic  Construction 
Company.  He  had  also  been  with  National 
Distillers  and  Chemical  Corporation  and 
Standard  Oil. 

While  with  Sun  Oil,  he  was  assistant  di- 
rector of  Petrochemicals  and  retired  as  direc- 
tor of  corporate  research,  moving  to  Cape 
Cod  in  1977.  He  was  bom  on  Aug.  3,  1916  in 
Bethayres,  Pa. 

Lawrence  F.  McNamara,  '43,  a  former  presi- 
dent of  Firematic  Sprinkler  Devices  of 
Shrewsbury,  Mass.,  died  in  Naples,  Florida, 
on  December  20,  1980. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  was  bom  on  luly 
3,  1920.  He  received  his  bs  in  chemical  engi- 
neering in  1943.  During  his  career,  he  was 
with  Rockwood  Sprinkler  of  Worcester,  fore- 
runner of  Firematic  Sprinkler,  which  he  later 
served  as  president.  He  owned  Astra  Sprin- 
klers, Ltd.,  of  Sherbrooke,  Quebec,  and 
Guardian  Automatic  Sprinkler  Co.  of 
Nashville,  Tenn. 

Mr.  McNamara  beloned  to  Phi  Kappa 
Theta  and  was  a  past  president  of  the  Lions 
Club.  He  was  a  registered  professional  engi- 
neer in  Massachusetts.  A  veteran  of  World 
War  n,  he  was  an  Army  Air  Force  intelligence 
officer.  He  was  a  former  veterans'  service  offi- 
cer in  Leicester,  Mass. 

Peter  E.  Talley,  '44  of  Pocono  Summit,  Penn- 
sylvania, passed  away  recently. 

He  was  bom  in  Wilmington,  Delaware 
on  Oct.  6,  1921.  In  1944,  he  received  his  bs  in 
chemical  engineering  from  WPI.  He  had  pre- 
viously attended  Lafayette.  For  many  years, 
he  was  a  salesman  for  du  Pont. 

Clinton  C.  Boone,  '46,  an  intemational  util- 
ity consultant  with  Ebasco  Services,  Inc.,  for 
the  past  33  years,  died  of  heart  failure  on  Feb- 
ruary 7,  1981  m  New  York. 

Boone,  a  member  of  the  Class  of  1946, 
graduated  from  Yale  University  m  1947  and 
received  his  master's  degree  from  New  York 
University.  He  also  attended  Brov^oi  Univer- 
sity and  the  Polytechnic  Institute  of 
Brooklyn. 

He  was  bom  April  7,  1922  in  Brooklyn, 
N.Y.  A  volunteer  for  service  in  World  War  n, 
he  was  assigned  to  motor  torpedo  boat  duty 
in  the  Atlantic.  He  was  promoted  to  radio- 
man first  class,  selected  for  officer's  training, 
and  served  in  the  Navy  v-i2  until  1946. 

While  employed  as  an  engineering  con- 
sultant for  Ebasco,  he  traveled  to  Turkey, 
Greece,  Venezuela,  and  throughout  the  U.S. 
He  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappa. 


Nestor  Brown,  Jr.,  '46,  a  26-year  employee  of 
Carrier  Air  Conditioning  Corp.,  passed  away 
on  February  3,  1981  at  his  home  in  East  Syra- 
cuse, New  York.  He  was  56  years  old. 

A  native  of  Springfield,  Mass.,  he  was 
bom  on  Oct.  10,  1924,  and  later  received  his 
BSME  from  WPI.  He  attended  Columbia  Uni- 
versity. From  1946  to  1954  he  was  with  the 
Van  Norman  Co.  in  Springfield.  After  serving 
in  the  Navy  in  World  War  H,  he  joined  Car- 
rier. At  the  time  of  his  death,  he  was  manager 
of  the  Engineering  Systems  Division.  He  be- 
longed to  Lambda  Chi  Alpha  and  the 
ASHRAE.Normand  R.  Poirier,  '48,  a  veteran 
journalist,  died  in  New  York  City  on  February 
1,  1981  following  a  two-month  illness.  He 
was  53  years  old. 

He  was  bom  in  Worcester  on  April  14, 
1927.  He  attended  WPI  imtil  his  education 
was  interrupted  for  Navy  cadet  pilot  training. 
For  a  time,  he  was  a  reporter  for  the  Worces- 
ter Telegram  and  Gazette.  Later,  he  graduated 
from  Cornell.  In  1950,  he  began  work  as  a 
publicist  in  Los  Angeles.  Then,  he  was  a  re- 
porter for  newspapers  in  Lafayette,  La.,  Pott- 
stown  and  Reading,  Pa.,  before  joining  the 
New  York  Post  in  1961. 

Mr.  Poirier  also  wrote  for  The  Saturday 
Evening  Post,  Look,  and  Esquire.  At  the  time 
of  his  death,  he  was  a  copy  editor  for  News- 
day,  the  Long  Island  daily.  He  was  a  member 
of  Phi  Kappa  Theta. 

William  T.  Mehalick,  '52,  died  at  his  home  in 
Orange,  Texas  on  February  9,  1981. 

After  graduating  as  a  mechanical  engi- 
neer, he  joined  du  Pont,  where  he  spent  his 
career.  He  had  been  foreman,  supervisor,  and 
area  supervisor  for  the  company.  One  of  his 
last  assignments  was  with  the  Sabine  River 
Works. 

He  belonged  to  Phi  Kappa  Theta  and 
Skull  and  had  served  with  the  U.S.  Navy.  A 
native  of  Elmira  Heights,  N.Y,  he  was  bom 
on  June  4,  1927. 

David  A.  Helman,  '58,  was  stricken  and  died 
April  30,  1981,  while  leaving  work  at  his  San 
Francisco  office. 

He  was  bom  on  Aug.  12,  1936  in  Pitts- 
burgh, Pa.,  and  graduated  as  a  mechanical  en- 
gineer in  1958.  During  his  career,  he  was 
with  Sperry  Gyroscope,  the  U.S.  Army, 
lamesbury  Corp,  the  Torrington  Co.,  and  Ap- 
plied Radiation  Corp.  At  the  time  of  his 
death,  he  was  the  vice  president  for  adminis- 
tration for  the  Institutes  of  Medical  Sciences 
in  San  Francisco.  He  was  a  member  of  spe. 

John  F.  Highman,  '76  was  killed  in  a  one-car 
accident  in  Holliston,  Massachusetts  on 
March  17,  1981,  when  his  car  struck  a  tree. 
Three  years  ago,  his  brother,  Henry,  was  also 
killed  in  a  similar  accident  on  the  same 
street. 

Bom  m  Framingham,  Mass.  on  Sept.  1, 
1954,  Highman  later  attended  WPI.  In  1976, 
he  received  his  mscs  with  distinction.  During 
his  career,  he  was  a  systems  assistant  at  Trav- 
elers Insurance  in  Hartford,  Conn.,  and  an  as- 
sembly language  programmer  at  Analogies, 
Inc.  in  Wakefield,  Mass.  He  belonged  to  Phi 
Kappa  Theta  and  Tau  Beta  Pi. 


Notes  from  the  editor 


Several  sharp-eyed  readers  have  written 
in  to  comment  on  the  cover  of  the  Win- 
ter issue  of  the  Joumal,  a  photograph 
which  was  identified  as  a  snow  scene 
near  Higgins  House.  It  was,  of  course, 
nothing  of  the  kind.  It  was  a  snow  scene 
near  Skull  Tomb. 

A  word  about 
typographical  errors: 

Over  the  course  of  the  last  year  and  a 
half,  typesetting  of  the  WPI  Journal  has 
been  transformed,  from  the  traditional 
'send  the  raw  manuscript  copy  off  to 
the  printer"  to  the  point  where  now  vir- 
tually all  copy  is  directly  input  by  Jour- 
nal editorial  staff  on  a  word-processing 
computer  located  in  the  University  Re- 
lations Office.  Typesetting  codes  are  in- 
serted, the  floppy  disk  is  sent  off,  and 
the  foumal  copy  is  directly  converted  to 
typeset  output. 

However,  at  the  time  we  changed 
our  procedures  we  inadvertently 
eliminated  one  very  important  proof- 
reading step  right  at  the  end.  Most  of 
the  time,  little  harm  was  done,  but  the 
mistake  finally  caught  up  with  us  in  the 
course  of  producing  the  Spring  issue  of 
the  Journal.  Far  too  many  errors  crept 
in,  and  they  were  either  not  caught  or 
not  corrected.  Apologies  are  especially 
due  TtcH  Old  Timers,  because  the 
article  on  their  organization  contained 
an  egregious  number  of  errors. 

In  the  wake  of  that  typographical 
disaster,  new  procedures  have  been  in- 
stalled so  that  we  do  not  overlook  proof- 
ing a  piece  of  copy.  My  sincere  apologies 
to  all  those  who  were  affected  by  the 
errors. 

—Russell  Kay 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1981  /  41 


00 


^ 


/ 

^ 


*^ 


^ 


V3  o  , 


«> 


198^ 


HOMECOMING  1981  October  2  3 


\Un 


Friday,  October  2: 

Saturday,  October  3: 
morning 


afternoon 


evening 


Evening  Concert 

Atwater  Kent  open  house,  tours,  and  Rededication 

Reunion  Brunches— Classes  of  1966,  1971,  1976 

WPI  Alumni  Soccer  Game 

WPI  Alumni  Crew  Race 

Tailgate  picnic  and  barbeque 

Varsity  Football— WPI  vs.  Colby 

5th  Annual  Alumni  Road  Race 

Rope  Pull 

Happy  Hour  for  Alumni  and  friends  at  Higgins  House 
Concert 


Night  Club  Entertainment  in  Harrington  Auditorium 

HOMECOMING  1981 


FaU  1981 


UIPp 


o 


HHuiin 


I  ft  V 


j.-infU 


Editor:  In  your  recent  survey  of 
alumni,  I  indicated  a  superior  rating 
for  Tech's  publications.  The  most 
recent  publication  with  a  featured 
article  on  a  so-called  "inventor"  ap- 
palled me. 


In  my  opinion,  the  article  was 
an  expose  of  a  patent  seeker.  As  a 
holder  of  world-wide  patents  for  ba- 
sic high  speed  taping  systems 
mainly  used  in  the  wire  industry, 
it  is  repugnant  to  me 
to  denigrate  the  role  of  a  true  inven- 
tor whose  patented  achievements 
sufficiently  add  to  the  world's  tech- 
nology base  to  warrant  acceptance 
of  royalty  based  licences  throughout 
the  world. 

Your  article,  again,  in  my  opin- 
ion, did  an  extreme  disservice  to  en- 
gineering students  and  young 
graduate  engineers.  While  there  cer- 
tainly is  a  warranted  historical  place 
in  industry  for  leisure  games,  and 
fine  national  and  foreign  firms  enjoy 


large  markets  for  such  products, 
most  electronic  games  and  toys  are 
seemingly  more  representative  of 
marketing  applications  of  various 
assemblies  and  packaging  of  basic 
components  wherein  the  fundamen- 
tal technology,  or  inventiveness 
exists. 

Finally,  what  especially  exas- 
perates me  is  my  view  that  the  en- 
tire article  could  be  construed  as  a 
sales  pitch  for  the  author's  planned 
new  endeavors. 

Constructively,  please  consider 
a  future  article  based  on  the  contri- 
butions Worcester  Tech  alumni  true 
inventors  have  added  to  the  world's 
technology  base.  A  little  research 
will  give  you  quite  a  list. 

—John  M.  Townsend,  '42 
Guilfoid,  Connecticut 


Trustee  nominations  sought 

Every  year,  the  WPI  Alumni  Associ- 
ation has  the  opportunity  to  nomi- 
nate three  alumni  to  serve  as 
alumni  term  members  of  the  WPI 
Board  of  Trustees.  Paul  W.  Bayliss, 
'6(3,  of  Harrington,  111.,  chairman  of 
the  Association's  Trustee  Search 
Committee,  announces  that  the 
committee  is  now  receiving  peti- 
tions for  consideration  and  nomina- 
tion for  8-year  terms  beginning  in 
July  1982. 


1982  marks  the  second  year  of 
transition  to  the  new  8-year  alumni 
trustee  term.  Two  trustees,  Len 
White,  '41  and  Dick  Davis,  '53,  will 
be  completing  their  first  five-year 
terms  in  June  1982.  In  accordance 
with  the  by-laws  as  revised  in  June 
1980,  both  have  elected  to  seek  sec- 
ond five-year  terms  and  have  the 
recommendation  of  the  Trustee 
Search  Committee  of  the  Alumni 
Association.  Anson  Fyler,  '45,  com- 
pletes his  second  five-year  term  in 
June  1982  and  is  not  eligible  for  an- 
other term.  The  Committee  will 
recommend  a  candidate  for  an  8- 
year  term  to  succeed  Mr.  Fyler. 

Until  1989  when  the  transition 
to  eight-year  trustee  terms  will  be 
complete,  the  Committee  will  en- 
deavor to  assure  that  at  least  one 
alumni  term  tnistceship  will  com- 
plete each  year  thereby  assuring  reg- 
ular and  orderly  introduction  of  new 
members  to  the  board  under  the 
new  term  arrangements. 


The  Committee  seeks  your 
suggestions  concerning  candidates 
for  consideration  for  alumni  trustee- 
ships. Alumni  may  submit  petitions 
on  or  before  December  1,  1981,  and 
they  should  be  mailed  to  Mr.  Bay- 
liss c/o  the  WPI  Alumni  Office, 
Boynton  Hall,  WPI,  Worcester,  MA 
01609.  Any  questions  regarding  pro- 
cedures for  the  formal  submission 
of  proposals  should  be  directed  to 
Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66,  alumni 
secretary-treasurer,  at  WPI 
(617-793-5600). 


The  WPI  journal  /  FaU  1981  /  I 


lUPpXlMIlMJ 

Fall  1981  Vol.  85,  No.  2 


2     AWPI  asset  who's  concerned  with  liabilities  .... 
product  liabilities,  that  is 

An  interview  with  Mechanical  engineering  professor 
Ray  Hagglund,  '56,  who  has  added  a  second  career  in  the 
courtoom  to  his  first  career  in  the  classroom. 

12     Basically  Bemie 

A  profile  of  the  man  who  has  run  student  activities  at 
WPI  for  the  last  decade. 

14  Your  class  and  others 

15  It's  in  the  bag  for  him 
31     Completed  careers 

1    Alumni  Association 
1    Feedback 


Cover:  This  mysterious-looking  photograph  of  Boynton 
Tower  was  taken  by  Mechanical  Engineering  technician 
George  Schmidt  through  a  special  prism  lens. 


An  important  note  to  Journal 
readers: 

This  is  the  48TH  and  last  issue  of  the 
WPI  Journal  which  will  be  edited  by 
H.  Russell  Kay.  Russ  has  submitted 
his  resignation  to  accept  a  position 
with  the  Computer  Security  Insti- 
tute in  Northboro,  Massachusetts, 
effective  December  1,  1981. 

During  the  past  eleven  years  as 
Director  of  Publications  at  WPI  and 
as  editor  of  the  WPI  Journal,  the 
quality  and  scope  of  our  college 
publications  has  increased  im- 
mensely. A  style  has  been  developed 
which  has  been  easily  recognizable, 
aesthetically  pleasing,  and  editori- 
ally effective,  thanks  to  Russ's  care- 
ful nurturing  of  the  myriad  number 
of  publications  he  has  been  respon- 
sible for.  In  fact,  during  his  years  at 
WPI  the  number  of  publications  he 
has  produced  annually  has  increased 
from  approximately  50  to  nearly 
300  this  past  year. 

We  congratulate  and  thank 
Russ  for  the  excellent  job  he  has 
done  for  WPI  and  for  the  WPI  Jour- 
nal and  we  wish  him  much  success 
in  his  new  position. 

—Donald  E.  Ross,  '54 

Chairman, 

WPI  Publications  Committee 


Editor:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Alumni  Information  Editor:  Ruth  S.  Trask 

Designer:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Typesetting:  County  Photo  Compositing, 
Inc.,  Jefferson,  Mass. 

Printing:  Davis  Press,  Inc.,  Worcester,  Mass. 

Alumni  Publications  Committee:  Donald  E. 
Ross,  '54,  chairman;  Robert  C.  Gosling,  '68; 
Sidney  Madwed,  '49;  Samuel  W.  Mencow, 
'37;  Stanley  P.  Negus,  Jr.,  '54;  Judy  Nitsch, 
'75- 


Address  all  correspondence  to  the  Editor,  The 
WPI  foumal,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute, 
Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609.  Telephone 
(617)  753-1411. 

The  WPI  foumal  is  published  for  the  WPI 
Alumni  Association  by  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute.  Copyright  ©  1981  by  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute.  All  rights  reserved. 

The  WPI  foumal  (usps  issn  no.  0148-6128)  is 
published  four  times  a  year,  quarterly.  Second 
Class  postage  paid  at  Worcester,  Massachu- 
setts. 


WPI  ALUMNI  ASSOCIATION 

President:  Peter  H.  Horstmann,  '55 

Senior  Vice  President:  Clark  Poland,  '48 

Vice  President:  Harry  W.  T^nney,  Jr.,  '56 

Secretary-Treasurer:  Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President:  John  H.  McCabe,  '68 

Executive  Committee  members-at-large:  Phi- 
lip B.  Ryan,  '6$;  Donald  E.  Ross,  '54;  Anson 
C.  Fyler,  '45;  Walter  Lankau,  '64 

Fund  Board:  Henry  Styskal,  Jr.,  '50,  chair- 
man; Richard  B.  Kennedy,  '65,  vice 
chairman;  Gerald  Finkle,  '57;  Philip  H.  Pud- 

DINGTON,  '59;  RlCHARD  A.  DaVIS,  '53;  C.  JOHN 

Lindegren,  '39;  John  H.  Tracy,  '52 


Ray  Hagglimd: 

AWPI  asset 

who's  concerned  with  liabilities 

•  •  •  product  liabilities,  that  is. 


MENTION  THE  WORDS  products  liability  to  some- 
one in  the  manufacturing  industry,  and 
chances  are  you  '11  get  a  reaction  of  pain 
and  frustration.  Although  it  has  been  around  for  quite  a 
while,  only  in  recent  years  has  products  habihty — what 
might  be  called  manufacturing  malpractice— occupied  a 
prominent  place  in  American  civil  htigation.  Because  it 
is  so  recent  a  phenomenon,  many  engineers  and  man- 
agers don 't  have  much  experience  to  go  on,  and  they 
have  to  rely  on  instinct.  That  can  be  a  dangerous  course 
of  action  when  entering  the  territory  of  the  law. 

Mechanical  engineering  professor  Raymond  R. 
Hagglund,  '56,  has  more  experience  in,  more  knowl- 
edge of  this  new  area  than  most  engineers  or  educators 
will  ever  dream  of.  Hagglund  comes  at  products  habihty 
from  a  unique  perspective— the  consulting  technical  ex- 
pert who  testifies  in  court,  a  veteran  of  more  than  300 
cases  in  the  past  decade. 

In  the  interview  which  follows,  what  is  perhaps 
most  interesting — even  more  than  some  of  his  "war 
stories"— is  the  way  in  which  Hagglund  uses  his  experi- 
ence to  further  his  teaching  at  WPI;  how  he  helps  ensure 
that  the  next  generation  of  engineers  will  be  better  able 
to  cope  with  the  legal  implications  of  their  professional 
work. 


2  /  Fall  1981  /  The  WPI  loiirnal 


X^«  How  did  you  first  get  involved  with  products 
liability? 

I  have  always  been  interested  in  consulting  on  technical 
problems,  that  is,  applied  problems  rather  than  prob- 
lems involving  pure  research.  I'm  interested  in  systems, 
also — not  just  the  calculations  for  a  shaft,  but  the  whole 
machine.  That's  just  my  nature.  I  handle  systems  which 
are  interdisciplinary  in  their  nature;  I  apply  a  lot  of  tech- 
nological knowledge,  and  where  I  don't  have  the  knowl- 
edge required,  of  course,  I  can  get  someone  to  consult 
with  me.  That's  how  I  like  to  address  problems— wide 
open.  I've  always  been  that  way. 

I  have  worked  as  a  consultant  since  I  graduated 
from  WPI  in  1956.  (Of  course,  you're  kind  of  limited  in 
what  you  can  do  at  that  point  in  your  career,  and  people 
don't  call  you  because  you  can't  do  very  much,  but 
you're  young;  you  live  through  it.)  But  I  did  find  work, 
and  I  was  successful  at  it,  and  I  had  fun  too. 

In  1962,  another  teacher  at  WPI  started  a  business 
called  Massachusetts  Materials  Research.  I  agreed  to 
work  with  him,  and  so  I  got  involved  with  a  lot  of  con- 
sulting. There  came  a  time  when  I  had  to  make  a  deci- 
sion, whether  to  go  with  the  company  full-time  or  stay 
in  teaching.  I  decided  to  stay  at  WPI,  and  the  company 
hired  a  technical  director.  I'm  still  a  consultant  to  them. 

These  were  mostly  quite  technical  problems  that 
I  encountered  from  1962  to  1968  or  so.  A  few  of  these 
consulting  problems  involved  failure  of  a  machine  or 
an  accident,  where  I  had  to  go  to  a  factory,  determine 
what  happened,  and  make  a  report  (perhaps  suggesting 
a  design  change) — which  would  go  to  an  insurance 
company. 

Then  a  couple  of  those  reports  ended  up  in  lawyer's 
hands  too,  and  I  found  myself  being  requested  to  appear 
in  court.  Even  though  products  liability  law  had  been 
around  for  a  long  time,  there  was  very  little  happening 
with  it  until  the  middle  1960s,  when  it  started  to  be- 
come active.  It  didn't  become  a  major  area  of  law  until 
the  early  1970s,  and  at  that  time  there  were  still  very 
few  lawyers  in  this  field. 

X^«  What  was  your  first  major  products  liability 
case  like? 

In  1970, 1  was  engaged  to  look  at  an  automobile  that  had 
been  involved  in  a  rear-end  collision.  It  was  a  1970  Ford 
Maverick,  and  it  had  what  is  known  as  a  drop-in  fuel 
tank  at  the  rear  of  the  vehicle.  The  gas  tank  drops  into  a 
hole  in  the  trunk  floor  and  therefore  becomes  part  of  the 
stmctural  strength  of  the  rear  of  the  car.  By  doing  this. 
Ford  saved  a  piece  of  metal,  which  saved  some  money. 
But  in  a  rear-end  collision,  after  the  bumper  gets  hit,  it 


doesn't  take  much  to  start  hitting  the  trunk  floor,  which 
starts  squeezing  the  fuel  tank,  which  then  shears,  tears, 
and  dumps  raw  gasoline  into  the  trunk.  The  filler 
plumbing  is  located  in  the  trunk,  and  that  also  separates 
to  dump  more  gasoline  into  the  trunk. 

I  declared  that  this  was  terrible  design,  and  I  backed 
my  statement  with  "state  of  the  art"  research  that  Ford 
itself  had  funded  in  1967,  where  they  found  that  this 
was  bad  design.  Yet  three  years  later  they  were  still 
making  the  1970  Maverick  in  the  old,  bad  way. 

This  sat  for  quite  a  while,  and  I  didn't  think  any- 
thing more  of  it.  But  then,  in  1973,  it  came  to  trial  in 
Providence,  Rhode  Island.  Suit  was  filed  on  behalf  of  the 
16-year  old  who  had  died  in  that  accident.  This  became 
known  as  the  Turcotte  case,  and  it  was  the  first  major 
trial  I  was  involved  in. 

I  explained  to  the  jury  that  this  particular  fuel  tank 
design  was  bad  design,  was  negligent  design.  There  were 
experts  on  the  other  side  saying  it  wasn't.  The  jury 
made  a  finding  for  the  plaintiff,  awarding  the  estate 
$500,000.  This  was  an  important  case,  and  it  hit  the 
newspapers  across  the  country.  The  case  was  appealed, 
and  the  reviewing  judge  ruled  that  the  original  finding 
and  award  would  hold.  This  case  set  a  legal  precedent  in 
what  is  known  as  "second  collision"  theory.  I  made  the 
grand  sum  of  about  $300  on  that  one. 

But  my  name  began  to  be  known,  and  I  started  re- 
ceiving phone  calls  from  all  over — Virginia,  Alabama, 
Texas — anywhere  someone  had  a  similar  accident  case. 


Did  all  these  cases  involve  Fords? 

No,  in  fact  all  of  these  others  involved  American  Motors 
Corporation  Gremlins,  which  had  fuel  tank  designs  that 
were  much  worse  than  the  Fords.  You  know,  at  one 
time  I  got  scared;  I  thought  that  amc  might  put  out  a 
Mafia  contract  on  me,  because  I  was  involved  in  so 
much  litigation  against  them. 

The  AMC  Gremlin  had  a  terrible  design.  The  fuel 
fnier  neck  is  in  the  back  of  the  car.  When  the  car  is  hit 
at  15  miles  an  hour,  the  plastic  upholstery  will  pop  off 
and  the  rubber  cormection  will  separate.  At  a  little 
higher  speed,  the  gas  tank  gets  crushed  against  the  dif- 
ferential, and  the  nozzle  inside  the  car,  pointing 
forward,  will  spray  gasoline  on  the  driver  and  the  pas- 
sengers. The  wires  in  the  taillight,  scraping  against 
metal,  will  fray  and  spark.  In  seconds  there  will  be  an 
explosion  and  a  fire. 

Sometime  later  in  my  products  liability  career,  I 
flew  down  to  Alabama  to  prepare  for  one  trial  against 
AMC.  My  first  job  was  to  gear  up  the  trial  attorney 
By  this  time,  I  knew  what  the  attorney  has  to  do  for 
opening  statements  and  trial  organization.  I  selected. 


from  material  I  had  brought  with  me,  documents  for 
him  to  read  and  bum  into  his  memory.  I  explained  the 
important  pieces  of  the  documents,  and  then  he  could 
decide  whether  to  incorporate  that  into  his  opening 
statements. 

On  Wednesday,  when  the  trial  was  proceeding, 
the  defense  thought  they  had  me  in  a  comer.  I  was 
asked,  "Professor  Hagglimd,  you  said  there  was  a  fire  in 
the  vehicle." 

I  said,  "There  surely  was  a  fire;  some  of  this  mate- 
rial has  been  damaged." 

"But  the  fire  was  at  the  front  of  the  vehicle, 
wasn't  it?" 

I  said,  "No,  it  was  in  the  rear  of  the  vehicle  also." 

He  continued,  "Look  at  this  photograph."  It  was  a 
picture  of  the  area  to  the  left  of  the  filler  neck.  "The 
floor  paint  isn't  even  touched  by  fire.  Therefore  there 
could  not  have  been  fire  there.  Would  you  not  agree?" 

"No,"  I  said,  "that's  faulty  reasoning.  There  was  a 
fire  above  the  paint.  The  fire  did  not  touch  the  paint.  It 
didn't  bum  there  because  there  was  too  much  gasoline. 
The  gasoline  sloshed  over  there,  and  too  much  gasoline 
doesn't  bum.  Flammable  vapors  have  to  exist,  and  that 
means  you  have  to  have  a  certain  proportion  of  gasoline 
to  air  to  have  a  fire.  Too  much  is  like  a  flooded  car. 
When  you  try  to  start  your  car,  the  engine  won't  fire. 
Too  little  is  like  an  empty  gas  tank.  You  have  to  be  in 
the  right  range." 

My  attorneys  were  shocked.  They  had  never  heard 
this  before,  and  they  got  scared.  They  came  up  to  me  as 
the  day  ended,  asking  what  was  I  doing? 

"You  don't  understand  what  I'm  talking  about, 
do  you?"  I  replied. 

"No  way,  it  couldn't  possibly  be  true.  Gasoline 
bums;  everyone  knows  that." 

"Listen,"  I  said  back  to  them.  "You're  not  going 
to  believe  what  I  tell  you.  Before  we  do  any  more  work 
tonight,  I  want  you  to  get  in  touch  with  the  local  fire 
marshal.  Ask  him  some  questions  and  see  what  he  says. 
Then  we'll  talk." 

They  did  that,  and,  to  their  amazement,  found  out  I 
was  right.  When  they  came  back,  we  started  work  on 
how  to  cross-examine  the  amc  expert.  "You  have  to  box 
him  into  that  same  comer,"  I  told  them.  I  laid  out  the 
questions  they  had  to  ask.  We  talked  and  talked,  and 
they  couldn't  quite  grasp  everything,  hut  at  least  they 
had  the  questions,  the  essence  of  what  I  was  saying. 
They  got  the  amc  expert  on  the  stand  the  next  day,  and 
they  kept  working  and  working  on  him,  and  finally,  af- 
ter three  hours,  got  the  man  to  agree  with  me.  At  that 
point  the  case  was  settled,  instantly. 


V^«  You  do  a  lot  of  work  with  automobile  cases.  Why 
is  that? 

These  early  cases  were  automobile-related.  Once  started 
in  this  sort  of  thing,  I  became  an  "expert"  I  happen  to 
have  a  keen  interest  in  cars  and  in  working  on  them;  I 
do  all  my  own  car  repairs,  for  example.  I  understand  a 
lot  about  automobile  systems,  and  I  can  match  what  I 
see  with  engineering  theory. 


\^«  In  all  this  work  with  the  legal  system,  in  court- 
rooms and  lawyers'  offices,  how  did  you  cope  as  an 
engineer  without  legal  training? 

Because  of  my  courtroom  work,  I  became  fascinated 
with  law.  I  started  to  collect  and  read  law  books,  be- 
cause the  lawyers  I  dealt  with  were  talking  a  language  I 
didn't  understand.  What  was  worse,  I  didn't  understand 
the  logic  of  what  was  going  on.  So  I  started  my  own  law 
library  in  this  new  field  of  products  liability,  reading— 
with  considerable  effort  at  first— all  the  major  books. 


4  /  Fall  1981  /  The  WPI  foumal 


V^«  Can  you  discuss  a  non-automotive  products 
liability  case? 

I  went  up  to  St.  Johns,  New  Brunswick,  where  the  Er- 
ving  Pulp  and  Paper  Mill  had  a  small  pulp  mill.  (Small 
in  this  context  means  that  it  only  cost  $200  million  and 
uses  3,000  cord  of  wood  a  day;  big  ones  use  12,000 
cord!)  This  mill  had  a  $30  million  boiler  that  generated 
steam  for  the  process.  In  this  boiler  was  an  economizer, 
a  section  that  preheats  water  going  into  the  boiler.  This 
is  a  big  bank  of  tubes — two  inches  in  diameter,  spaced 
just  one  inch  apart,  jammed  together  into  a  small  area. 
The  mill  was  experiencing  tube  failures,  which  meant 
water  leaks,  hi  this  particular  type  of  boiler,  when  you 
have  a  serious  leak  you  can  have  a  violent  explosion 
which  will  level  the  entire  building  and  kill  everyone  in 
it.  It's  important  not  to  have  leaks. 

Two  years  after  the  boiler  had  been  installed,  these 
leaks  were  now  coming  once  and  twice  a  week.  Each 
time  it  would  take  24  to  48  hours  to  correct  the  prob- 
lem. This  meant  shutting  down  the  system,  finding  the 
leak,  cutting  away  good  tubes  in  order  to  get  to  the  leak- 
ing tube,  then  rewelding  the  bad  tube  and  all  the  ones 
that  had  to  be  cut  to  get  in  there.  It  probably  cost  the 
company  $250,000  a  day,  money  they  could  never  re- 
cover again. 

When  I  was  called  in  to  look  at  this,  I  made  some 
calculations  and  determined  that  the  tubes  failed  in  fa- 
tigue because  of  a  very  sophisticated  vibration  problem. 
Gas  flow  through  the  tubes  was  leaving  vortices  behind 
each  tube — like  eddies  in  a  stream — and  the  vortex  fre- 
quencies matched  the  tubes'  natural  resonant  frequency, 
and  also  matched  the  "organ-pipe"  frequency  across  the 
walls.  This  created  serious  vibration,  and  it  stressed  the 
tubes  until  they  started  failing. 

I  was  there  to  solve  a  problem.  There  were  another 
20  people  from  around  the  world,  who  were  there  not 
really  to  solve  this  problem  but  to  save  their  asses  be- 
cause they  had  helped  build  this  boiler  which  kept 
leaking. 

My  work  on  that  case  expanded  over  the  next  three 
years.  I  put  together  a  major  report  in  which  I  advised 
the  company,  on  the  basis  of  my  calculations,  to  forget 
about  welding  and  rewelding  the  tubes;  but  instead  to 
make  some  changes  and  install  a  new  $2  million  tube 
module,  after  which  they  would  have  no  trouble.  (And 
indeed  they  have  not.)  Then  I  advised  them  to  enter  a 
products  liability  suit  against  Babcock  &  Wilcox,  Ltd., 
in  London,  who  had  designed  this  boiler  and  done  it 
improperly. 

To  follow  up  on  that,  I  had  to  go  back  and  conduct 
major  studies  because  there  were  so  many  different  peo- 
ple involved,  and  each  had  a  different  viewpoint.  I  did 
mathematical  analyses,  ran  experiments  on  the  boiler 
system,  and  made  videotapes.  I  went  to  London  and  met 


with  B&W  people,  and  then  I  presented  my  report.  The 
first  part  of  the  report  contains  all  my  base  calculations; 
the  appendices  contain  what  is  called  the  "state  of  the 
art."  This  is  what  was  known  and  published  about 
boiler  tube  vibration,  and  prediction  of  boiler  tube  vibra- 
tion, at  the  time  the  boiler  was  made  in  1972. 1  found 
that  B&w  did  not  use  the  state  of  the  art— I  think,  in 
fact,  that  they  just  guessed  at  what  they  were  doing. 

I  was  able  to  do  all  this  for  the  paper  mill  because  I 
had  been  studying  law.  I  knew  the  structure  of  the  law; 
the  logic  of  law.  Now  I  could  produce  a  report  suitable 
to  be  handed  directly  to  an  attorney.  There  is  now  a  $4 
or  $5  million  damage  suit  pending  in  London.  The 
mill's  attorneys  drafted  a  "complaint"  (which  details 
the  particulars  of  the  suit)  and  sent  it  to  me  for  com- 
ment. I  rewrote  it  completely,  to  eliminate  technical  er- 
rors and  misunderstandings,  and  returned  it  to  London.  I 
expect  I  will  have  to  go  to  London  to  testify  before  this 
case  is  finished. 

This  is  a  case  that  involves  every  discipline  of  me- 
chanical engineering  that  you  could  put  together;  now  I 
use  the  problem  in  my  courses  here  at  WPI  as  a  vehicle 
for  teaching. 


V^«  How  do  you  do  that?  What  do  you  carry  over  from 
that  case  into  the  classroom? 

In  the  Interactive  Qualifying  Projects  (iqp)  I  advise,  I 
have  my  students  read  a  legal  book  on  products  liability, 
including  case  studies  that  I  have  developed.  I  want  to 
get  them  accustomed  to  the  strange  and  dense  language 
of  the  legal  literature.  I  give  them  reports  like  the  one 
on  the  boiler  tubes  to  look  at,  and  we  discuss  these  in 
class.  Then  I  give  them  a  simple  case  and  ask  them  to 
determine  whether  a  particular  product  is  reasonably  or 
defectively  designed  and  manufactured.  We  discuss  that 
case  and  suddenly  begin  to  see  very  different  opinions  in 
the  classroom.  I  bring  in  a  judge  to  discuss  his  role  in  a 
products  liability  case,  then  a  plaintiff's  attorney,  a  de- 
fense attorney,  and  maybe  an  insurance  company  repre- 
sentative, each  presenting  their  sides  of  products 
liability.  Then  we'll  go  to  an  actual  court  case — visit  a 
trial  in  progress,  if  possible.  I'll  have  them  sit  in  on  ac- 
tual depositions  to  see  what  is  involved. 

Finally,  I'll  give  my  students  the  raw  material  of  a 
new  case,  perhaps  something  I've  worked  on  which  has 
already  been  to  court,  and  they  each  have  to  produce  an 
expert's  report. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  FaU  1981  /  5 


Products  Liability — 
definitions  and  a  few 
recommendations 


IN  ORDER  TO  clcarly  understand 
some  of  the  things  mentioned  in 
this  interview  please  note  some 
of  these  key  concepts  which  are  in- 
voked in  products  Habihty  htiga- 
tion: 

WHAT  IS  PRODUCTS  LIABIUTY? 

Products  Uability  is  the  name  for  a 
special  branch  of  law  which  deals 
with  suits  alleging  injury  to  a  per- 
son (or  his  own  product)  as  a  result 
of  an  alleged  defect  in  a  product. 

NEGUGENCE. 

If  the  product  was  poorly  designed 
or  manufactured  because  care 
wasn't  taken,  then  the  manufac- 
tiu-er  can  be  held  responsible  due  to 
his  negligence. 

STRICT  LIABILITY. 

No  matter  what  the  reason  for  the 
product's  failure,  no  matter  how 
many  precautions  were  taken  by 
the  manufacturer,  he  might  be  held 
responsible  under  the  doctrine  of 
strict  liability  if  the  defect  was 
in  the  product  when  it  left  the 
manufacturer. 

IMPLIED  WARRANTY. 

The  fact  that  an  item  is  offered 
for  sale  is  an  implicit  statement  that 
it  will  do  its  job  and  that  it  is  rea- 
sonably safe.  This  doctrine  of  im- 
plied warranty  helps  protect  the 
consumer. 

EXPRESS  WARRANTY. 

Anytime  the  manufacturer  or  seller 
makes  a  specific  statement  of  a 
product's  properties  or  capabilities, 
this  can  be  held  to  be  an  express 
warranty  applicable  to  that  product. 


6  /  Fall  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


BASED  ON  HIS  WORK,  Profcssor 
Hagglund  suggests  that  any 
person  involved  in  product 
development  or  manufacturing  con- 
sider these  4  critical  questions: 

1.  How  will  the  product  be  used? 

2.  In  what  unusual  but  foreseeable 
ways  will  the  product  be  used? 

3.  How  could  a  person  be  hurt 
while  using  the  product? 

4.  How  could  another  company's 
product— a  system— be  damaged 
as  a  result  of  a  defect  in  a  com- 
ponent product? 


IN  ADDITION,  Hagglimd  lists  the 
following  10  common  charges  of 
negligence  often  encountered  in 
the  product  development  cycle.  He 
notes  that  if  these  are  considered 
early  on  in  the  design  and  manufac- 
turing processes,  the  chances  of  suc- 
cessful product  liability  litigation 
against  the  manufacturer  are  signifi- 
cantly reduced. 

Creating  a  design: 

1 .  The  designer  did  not  foresee 
possible  alternative  use  of  the 
product. 

2.  The  design  did  not  incorporate 
proper  safety  devices. 

Analyzing  the  design: 

3.  The  product  was  defectively  de- 
signed. Examples— improper 
calculations;  no  calculations; 
improper  use  of  codes  and  stan- 
dards; current  state  of  the  art 
not  used;  improper  selection  of 
materials. 

Preparing  the  design  for  manu- 
facturing: 

4.  The  product  was  not  tested 
prior  to  being  released  to 
manufacturing. 


Manufacturing  the  product: 

5.  The  product  was  defectively 
manufactured.  Examples — 
improper  welding;  improper 
fasteners;  defective  materials; 
improper  heat  treatment. 

Testing  the  product: 

6.  The  product  lacked  sufficient 
quality  control  testing. 
Examples — dimensions  out  of 
tolerance;  a  lower-quality  sub- 
stitute component  incorpo- 
rated; no  x-ray  testing;  no 
testing  of  the  final  product  as  it 
will  actually  or  foreseeably  be 
used. 

Selhng  the  product: 

7.  The  product  was  improperly 
advertised.  Examples — 
misleading  claims;  over- 
energetic  salesperson. 

8.  Instructions  for  proper  and  safe 
use  of  the  product  were  not 
given. 

9.  The  product  lacked  proper 
warning  signs. 

Post  sales: 
10.  The  manufacturer  did  not  no- 
tify all  owners  of  the  products 
that  new  safety  devices  were 
available  or  that  a  design  modi- 
fication hadbeen  made  to  im- 
prove the  safety  of  the  product. 


SUGGESTED  FURTHER 
READING: 

General: 

Alvin  Weinstein,  et  al..  Products  lia- 
bility and  the  reasonably  safe  prod- 
uct (John  Wiley  &  Sons,  1978). 

Legal: 

E.N.  Swartz,  "Hazardous  products 
litigation,"  Chapter  n  of  Theories  of 
liability  (Lawyers  Cooperative, 
1973). 

Harry  M.  Philo,  Lawyer's  Desk  Ref- 
erence, volumes  I  and  n. 

Codes  and  Standards: 

Accident  prevention  manual  for  in- 
dustrial operations  (National  Safety 
Council,  1974). 

American  National  Standards  Insti- 
tute (ANSI),  1430  Broadway,  New 
York.  NY  10018 


V^*  In  your  products  liability  work,  do  you  usually 
work  for  the  defense? 

Of  all  the  cases  I  look  at,  I  would  say  they  divide  up 
pretty  evenly — about  one-third  of  the  time  I  work  for 
the  defense,  one-third  for  the  plaintiff,  and  the  remain- 
ing one-third  I  don't  see  a  case  to  be  made,  so  I  don't  go 
any  further. 


V^«  How  involved  do  you  get  with  the  legal  proce- 
dures involved  in  suits,  other  than  just  testifying? 

Look  at  a  current  case  I'm  working  on.  A  well-drilling 
rig  had  been  working  on  top  of  a  mountain  in  Vermont. 
The  driver  started  to  take  the  rig  down  the  hill  when  he 
heard  an  air  leak  in  the  cab.  He  felt  around,  trying  to 
find  the  source  of  the  leak.  What  it  was,  of  course,  was 
the  air  brakes,  but  the  leak  wasn't  big  enough  to  trigger 
the  automatic  emergency  brakes.  The  driver  tried  to  re- 
gain control  of  his  truck;  he  was  still  traveling  only  15 
miles  an  hour.  But  with  a  15-speed  transmission,  you 
can't  just  downshift  and  upshift  whenever  you  want. 
The  driver  couldn't  get  control.  The  main  ("service") 
brakes  wouldn't  slow  the  truck,  and  the  driver  couldn't 
downshift  ...  he  had  to  upshift,  in  fact,  which  only 
made  matters  worse,  because  it  let  the  truck  go  even 
faster.  The  trucker  had  a  mile  to  go  down  the  hill.  After 
he  began  really  moving,  he  pushed  the  button  to  apply 
the  emergency  brakes.  But  this  didn't  slow  him  down 
much.  He  was  driving  this  44,000  pound  well-drilling 
rig  down  the  mountain,  no  brakes,  taking  turns  on  two 
wheels,  with  the  speedometer  pegged  at  80  miles  an 
hour.  He  finally  made  it  down  the  mountain  to  face  a  T- 
intersection.  He  saw  ahead  of  him  a  field,  so  he  went 
straight  ahead.  But  it  wasn't  a  field;  what  he  thought 
were  bushes  were  the  tops  of  trees.  He  went  down  a  70- 
foot  drop,  about  300  feet  into  the  woods. 

I  went  up  to  Vermont  and  ran  physical  tests  using  a 
comparable  rig  on  those  same  mountains.  It  turned  out 
the  braking  system  for  that  truck  was  totally  inade- 
quate; it  had  been  defectively  designed.  This  was  a  1965 
truck,  and  the  accident  occurred  in  1976,  only  two 
months  after  the  truck  had  been  refurbished  and  resold. 
I  declared  that  it  was  refurbished  improperly,  because 
the  brakes  had  never  been  touched.  On  level  ground, 
this  truck  took  90  feet  to  stop  from  20  miles  per  hour. 
(And  with  the  emergency  brake  it  went  almost  200 
feet.)  All  laws  require  that  a  vehicle  stop  in  no  more 
than  40  feet  from  that  speed  using  the  service  brake. 


I  had  to  construct  the  entire  legal  case:  the  basic  el- 
ements of  the  demand  and  the  interrogatories — 
questions  to  the  companies  being  sued  for  the  purpose  of 
getting  information  which  I  needed  and  which  should  be 
available.  By  law,  they  have  to  answer  these  within  30 
days.  I  prepare  these,  and  then  the  lawyers  put  in  the 
necessary  legal  language  at  the  beginning  and  the  end, 
but  they  leave  the  technical  material  the  way  I  write  it. 

I  word  these  interrogatories  so  they  are  quite  spe- 
cific, so  there  is  a  definite  answer  which  must  be  given. 
For  this  case  I  put  together  perhaps  100  questions.  After 
reviewing  the  answers  to  this  first  set  of  interrogatories, 
I  put  together  a  second  set,  aiming  at  getting  more  re- 
fined answers.  In  this  case  we  have  not  received  the 
signed  answers  to  the  second  set,  because  they  will  not 
answer  one  of  my  questions— and  they  don't  want  to  do 
it  because  their  answer  will  nail  together  my  entire 
case. 

Depositions  are  another  area.  After  you  know  a  lit- 
tle about  a  case,  you  want  to  find  out  specifically  what 
the  expert  at  a  particular  company  knows  about  what 
that  company  did.  So  a  deposition  is  taken  from  that  ex- 
pert, under  oath,  and  it  can  be  used  in  the  courtroom.  I 
prepare  the  attorneys  carefully  for  each  deposition.  I 
write  out  the  questions  for  them  to  ask.  We  talk  about 
what  they  want  to  cover,  get  the  logical  framework 
right,  then  I  sit  with  them  at  the  deposition  to  hear  the 
answers.  Based  on  the  answers,  I  write  out  subques- 
tions,  where  we  need  further  probing.  This  way  we  get 
the  information  we  need,  on  target.  Most  depositions 
which  are  taken  by  an  attorney  alone,  without  technical 
support,  are  so  broad  and  ramble  all  over  the  place,  that 
the  information  is  often  of  no  use.  When  I  see  that,  I 
wish  they  could  take  another  deposition;  but  under  the 
law  they  only  get  one  chance  at  it.  Technical  backup  is 
extremely  important  here. 


X^«  In  a  case  like  this,  who  is  actually  being  sued? 

Here  we  first  have  a  company  that  sold  a  drilling  rig 
consisting  of  a  drilling  unit  mounted  on  a  truck.  To 
produce  this  they  needed  a  truck,  which  they  ordered 
from  a  track  manufacturer  according  to  their  own  speci- 
fications. For  example,  no  front  brakes.  For  example, 
emergency  brakes  only  on  one  of  the  two  rear  axles.  For 
example,  the  small  size  of  the  brakes  to  be  used.  Yet  the 
company  which  issued  these  specifications  had  no  ex- 
pertise whatsoever  in  brake  technology  or  in  the  stop- 
ping of  vehicles. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  FaU  1981  /  7 


The  truck  maker  builds  the  truck.  Now  we're  deal- 
ing with  ethical  questions.  Is  it  proper  for  the  truck 
maker  to  build  the  truck  according  to  the  specifications 
of  the  purchaser,  knowing  full  well  that  this  vehicle  will 
be  driven  on  the  roads  of  the  United  States  and  that  it 
does  not  meet,  and  has  no  chance  of  meeting,  any  state 
requirements  for  braking  performance?  The  maker  of  the 
truck  is  negligent.  He  should  not  have  taken  that  order 
unless  he  convinced  the  customer  to  do  things  differ- 
ently. It  iust  happens  that  truck  maker  built  trucks  of  a 
similar  type  for  other  companies  during  that  same  year, 
1965,  and  in  those  other  trucks  it  employed  the  best 
brake  technology  available  at  that  time. 

So  the  truck  maker  is  at  fault.  The  company  that 
ordered  the  truck  and  put  on  the  drilling  unit  is  at  fault. 
Now  another  company  comes  into  the  picture,  some 
eleven  years  later.  In  1976  we  have  an  old  truck,  with  an 
old  drilling  package.  This  latest  company  painted  the 
old  truck  and  put  a  brand  new  drilling  package  on  it. 
This  truck  is  sold,  again  to  be  driven  on  the  highways, 
but  it  has  no  chance  of  being  properly  registered  in  any 
state.  The  braking  system  doesn't  even  begin  to  comply 
with  the  newer,  more  stringent  requirements  in  effect 
for  truck  braking  systems. 

This  company  says  that  they  don't  build  trucks, 
so  it's  not  really  their  problem.  But  I  say  that  they  sold 
the  truck,  and  they  should  have  had  the  brakes  repaired 
and  upgraded,  because  it  was  possible  to  do  so.  This  rig 
sold  for  $100,000  in  1976,  and  it  would  have  cost  only 
an  additional  $240-$500  to  upgrade  the  braking  capacity 
of  that  truck  so  that  it  would  have  been  able  to  stop 
properly. 


\^*  You've  talked  about  the  technical  side  of  your 
cases.  What  happens,  though,  when  these  cases  come  to 
court?  How  do  the  attorneys  on  the  other  side  counter 
your  testimony? 

If  you  know  the  system,  you're  really  in  business.  I 
went  to  Sandusky,  Ohio,  to  testify  about  an  accident 
that  took  place  in  Worcester.  A  boy  was  hurt  in  a  shear- 
grmding  machine  which  required  that  the  operator  place 
his  hand  very  near  the  grinding  wheel  when  he  turned  it 
on.  It  took  four  seconds  for  the  machine  to  grind  off  two 
fingers.  To  expose  a  person  to  this  kind  of  injury  is  bad 
design. 

I  arrived  in  Sandusky  to  discover  that  the  trial  attor- 
ney had  just  been  selected,  and  he  didn't  know  anything 
about  the  case.  I  met  with  him  on  Sunday  to  prepare 
him  to  make  his  opening  statements  to  the  jury  on 
Monday.  I  had  to  be  sure  that  he  knew  what  to  ask  of 
witnesses,  to  elicit  the  right  answers  which  would  to  set 
the  basis  of  fact  on  which  I  could  then  speak  and  render 
an  opinion.  If  the  factual  base  isn't  set  right,  then  no 
opinions  can  he  given 


I  worked  with  the  attorney  through  Tuesday,  when 
the  case  hit  a  severe  snag.  The  law  of  Massachusetts  had 
to  be  applied  there  in  Ohio,  and  they  didn't  know  which 
law  that  was.  Fortimately  I  had  my  law  books  with  me, 
and  I  could  give  them  the  proper  legal  citations  so  they 
could  find  the  actual  law.  The  case  continued  without 
delay. 

I  was  on  the  stand  testifying,  when  this  question 
was  put  to  me:  "Professor  Hagglund,  wouldn't  a  reason- 
ably prudent  person  have  pressed  the  stop  button?"  'Rea- 
sonably prudent'  are  the  magic  keywords  here— you  just 
have  to  know  that.  I  said  "No";  and  it  happened  that 
the  judge  recessed  the  trial  until  the  next  day.  The  de- 
fense attorney  came  over  to  me  and  said  that  he  was  not 
going  to  call  me  in  the  morning,  and  that  I  was  free  to 
return  to  Massachusetts.  I  could  leave  that  night,  in 
other  words.  I  knew  this  had  to  be  a  set-up,  so  I  quickly 
went  to  see  my  trial  attorney.  I  told  him,  "I  guess  I'm 
going  home  tonight,  Tom,  because  I've  just  been  given 
permission  to  leave."  He  almost  flipped  because  of  the 
imethical  nature  of  that  defense  attorney's  behavior. 

Of  course  I  didn't  leave.  I  stayed  to  tell  the  jury  my 
side  of  the  case,  and  it  resulted  in  an  award  of  $60,000, 
which  was  a  big  award  then  for  two  fingers.  This  case, 
after  review,  set  a  legal  precedent  in  the  area  of  machine 
design. 

V^*  The  other  side  doesn't  always  want  you  to  be 
there,  do  they? 

No.  That  was  one  tactic  that  has  been  used  to  get  me 
out  of  the  courtroom.  A  different  one  was  used  in  the 
Turcotte  case  in  Rhode  Island.  I  was  asked  to  identify 
the  accident  car  in  some  photographs  handed  me  by  the 
defense  attorney.  I  had  taken  my  own  photographs  in 
the  case,  some  three  years  earlier,  but  I  hadn't  looked  at 
them  in  a  long  time.  So  I  told  the  judge  I  needed  more 
time  to  study  the  pictures  before  I  could  give  my  an- 
swer. The  defense  attorney  pressed  hard  for  an  immedi- 
ate answer,  but  I  said  I  needed  to  compare  these  new 
pictures  with  the  ones  I  had  taken,  looking  at  scratches 
and  so  forth.  The  judge  recessed  the  jury  to  give  me 
time  to  study  the  pictures.  They  were  pictures  of  a  dif- 
ferent car,  not  the  one  involved  in  this  case  at  all. 
Clearly,  the  defense  attorney  wanted  me  to  identify  the 
pictures  as  showing  the  accident  vehicle,  and  then  he 
could  discredit  my  identification  and  thus  all  of  my 
testimony. 

Another  case  happened  in  Worcester.  An  attorney 
whom  I'd  run  into  before  didn't  want  me  to  testify  in  a 
punch  press  case.  He  brought  in  his  own  expert,  who 
worked  for  the  maker  of  the  punch  press.  This  lawyer 
then  asked  his  witness,  "By  the  way,  this  machine  was 
made  in  1943.  When  were  you  bom?"  And  the  fellow  re- 
plied, 1937.  "My  gracious,  then  you  were  how  old  when 


this  machine  was  built?  Six  years  old?  You  didn't  have 
an  engineering  degree  then,  did  you?  Did  you  know  very 
much  about  engineering?  Did  you  do  any  engineering  at 
that  time?"  Well  of  course  the  answers  were  all  No.  He 
then  looked  at  the  judge  and  said,  "Your  honor,  I  move 
that  my  witness,  my  own  expert,  be  discredited,  dis- 
qualified, for  he  did  not  know  anything  about  the  prac- 
tice of  engineering  at  the  time  this  machine  was  built." 
The  judge  said,  "Of  course." 

Then  I  was  called  to  the  stand.  "Professor  Hagg- 
lund,  when  were  you  bom?"  1934.  "How  old  were  you 
in  1943?  Did  you  have  a  degree?  Did  you  practice  engi- 
neering? Were  you  employed  by  any  engineering  com- 
panies?" Of  course  not.  "Judge,  I  move  that  this  witness 
be  disqualified."  I  was  off  the  stand  in  a  flash. 

That  brought  the  case  into  a  state  of  limbo.  There 
were  no  witnesses  to  testify.  How  could  the  case  go  on? 
It  either  had  to  be  settled,  or  there  had  to  be  a  motion 
for  a  new  trial.  I  recommended  a  settlement  in  this  case. 
But  it  certainly  was  a  cute  tactic. 


I  think  what  the  system  needs  is  more  people  from 
the  academic  world,  who  don't  make  their  entire  living 
this  way,  and  who  therefore  can  be  more  objective,  more 
free  to  take  a  position  or  not  take  a  position  .  .  .  and 
they  also  have  more  expertise  than  most  of  the  experts  I 
see.  The  only  trouble  is,  the  academic  people  don't  want 
to  get  involved  because  of  the  pressures  that  accompany 
the  legal  process.  Some  people's  emotional  systems  can- 
not stand  that  pressure.  I  happen  to  have  the  chemistry, 
the  temperament,  to  take  it  and  give  it  back.  I  enjoy  the 
confrontation.  I  wish  we  had  more  people  who  did. 

About  1975  or  76, 1  thought  seriously  about 
quitting  WPI  and  going  to  law  school.  I  could  sense  that 
I  had  an  affinity  for  the  legal  work,  and  I  knew  I  could 
put  it  together  with  my  engineering  background.  But 
that  would  have  involved  three  years  of  law  school,  and 
then  I'd  have  to  start  to  build  a  law  practice  from 
scratch.  I  decided  not  to  become  a  lawyer,  finally,  be- 
cause I  enjoyed  and  was  successful  at  what  I  was  already 
doing. 


V^«  It  sounds  as  if  you  really  enjoy  the  cut  and  thrust 
of  the  courtroom. 

I  do,  and  I  can  accept  the  pressures.  My  absolute  rule, 
whether  I'm  working  for  the  plaintiff  or  the  defense,  is 
that  I  handle  my  own  case  completely,  with  no  restric- 
tions from  anybody  imposed  on  me.  And  when  I  take  a 
position — which  might  be  'there  is  no  case  here' — that's 
it.  If  I  decide  there  is  a  case,  then  I  insist  it  has  to  be 
fully  developed,  with  no  loose  ends  at  all.  And  good  at- 
torneys only  want  it  that  way. 

The  problem  is  that,  when  you  do  a  thorough  job,  it 
costs  money.  However,  if  you  don't  do  a  thorough  job, 
you're  made  to  look  like  a  fool,  and  I  don't  like  that.  I 
won't  be  made  to  look  a  fool.  I  won't  even  touch  a  case 
unless  I  have  full  rein. 

I  have  a  lot  of  respect  for  attorneys.  Some  of  them 
are  incredibly  brilliant,  super  people.  A  lot  of  engineers 
take  the  position  that  they  don't  like  attorneys;  there- 
fore they  won't  work  with  attorneys.  They  won't  do 
products  liability  work. 

Well,  I've  worked  with  attorneys  all  over  the  coun- 
try, and  I  would  say  that,  out  of  several  hundred,  there 
are  only  three  I  have  encountered  who  are  unethical  in 
the  way  they  handle  things.  I  cannot  say,  on  the  other 
hand,  that  I  have  seen  many  ethical  experts.  Instead, 
I've  seen  unethical  and  unprepared  experts,  people  who 
are  simply  not  qualified.  There  are  many  experts — I 
could  name  names — who  will  give  you  any  opinion  you 
want  so  long  as  you  pay  for  it.  That's  terrible.  And  they 
are  engineers. 


V^*  Are  there  times  when  your  technical  findings  are 
ignored  or  not  used  by  your  clients? 

There  was  a  fire,  outside  of  Yosemite  National  Park, 
where  a  person  was  terribly  burned,  and  it  was  charged 
that  an  improperly  designed  gas  hot  water  heater  control 
was  at  fault.  I  flew  to  St.  Paul,  Minnesota,  to  look  at  the 
actual  control  and  take  photographs.  I  could  see  that 
this  control  had  been  totally  abused.  Abuse  is  a  valid  de- 
fense. An  engineer  has  no  obligation  to  build  a  totally 
accident-proof  device,  but  he  does  have  to  build  a  rea- 
sonably safe  product. 

The  plaintiff,  I  knew,  would  argue  that  the  product 
was  defective  and  unsafe.  I  would  argue  that  it  had  been 
abused  and  was,  in  fact,  safe.  I  did  tests  to  show  that. 
Then  I  met  over  a  weekend  with  the  defense  attorney 
from  San  Francisco.  We  talked  the  case  through,  and 
knew  there  was  a  solid  defense  case.  But  he  called  me 
back  at  1:30  in  the  morning  and  said,  "Ray,  I've  thought 
about  it,  and  we're  not  going  to  have  you  deposed.  We 
don't  want  to  put  the  plaintiff's  attorney  through  col- 
lege. They  have  called  in  five  experts,  who  are  not 
knowledgeable  at  all.  They  have  done  no  testing,  they 
don't  have  any  theory  about  how  the  accident 
happened,  they  just  contend  that  anything  made  out  of 
plastic  is  bad.  That's  their  position.  Since  they  don't 
have  a  theory,  and  since  they  don't  have  any  physical 
test  evidence,  and  since  their  lawyer  doesn't  even  seem 
to  know  just  where  he  is  going,  all  we  could  do  with 
this  type  of  defense  would  be  to  educate  our  opponents. 

"And  besides,  even  if  this  attorney  doesn't  use  the 
information  in  this  case,  we  know  that  he  will  seek  out 
other  gas  hot  water  heater  cases  just  so  that  he  can 
make  use  of  it." 


Therefore  I  was  not  deposed.  On  that  Monday 
morning,  the  plaintiff's  attorney  of  the  questionable 
ethics  telephoned  me  and  wanted  me  to  five  him  a  sum- 
mary of  what  I  would  have  said  if  we'd  gone  through 
with  the  deposition.  That  is  totally  unethical  behavior. 
I've  run  into  this  man  two  times,  and  he  has  acted  un- 
ethically twice. 

hi  this  case,  the  court  strategy  is  rather  strange  to 
me:  we  have  a  solid  case,  but  we  don't  want  to  use  it 
because  it  would  give  the  plaintiff  attorney  ideas  for  his 
next  case,  and  my  testimony  would  become  public  in- 
formation. However,  the  defending  company  attorneys 
know  how  to  cross-examine  the  other  side,  based  on 
what  I  have  explained  to  them  in  private,  and  so  here  I 
am  retained  strictly  as  a  consultant.  Conceivably,  at 
trial  time  I  could  fly  to  California  to  consult  with  them 
and  help  direct  the  attorney  in  his  cross-examination  of 
the  witnesses.  We'll  have  to  see. 


V^«  In  the  cases  you've  been  discussing  so  far,  they 
appear — the  way  you  present  them — to  be  fairly  clear- 
cut  examples  of  liability  or  not,  even  though  some  in- 
volve fairly  sophisticated  technical  knowledge.  Do  you 
find  most  cases  are  this  way? 

When  I  look  at  a  case,  if  I  find  there  is  a  legitimate  de- 
fense, I  will  work  for  them.  If  I  find  there  is  not  a  good 
case,  I  will  advise  them  to  get  out  and  settle.  I  iust  call 
it  as  I  see  it. 

Once  I  decide  there  is  a  case,  I  do  my  utmost  to  pull 
together  the  complete  logic  that  will  be  used  in  the 
courtroom,  to  show  the  clarity  of  the  case.  Remember, 
there  is  somebody  on  the  other  side  who  is  (hopefully) 
doing  the  same  kind  of  thing.  Because  of  these  two 
viewpoints,  the  case  may  become  quite  unclear  now  to 
the  jury.  It  isn't  black  and  white.  In  fact,  if  a  case  is  to- 
tally black  and  white  after  everyone  has  done  their 
homework,  the  case  will  settle  outside  of  the  court. 
Through  depositions,  the  defense  and  the  plaintiff  each 
have  a  pretty  good  idea  of  what  the  other  side  is  going  to 
say.  If  they  can  all  see  that  it  will  work  to  the  advantage 
of  the  plaintiff,  there  will  be  a  settlement.  If  it  will 
work  for  the  defense  side,  the  trial  may  go  on,  or  there 
may  still  be  a  settlement  (a  lower  one).  But  if  both  sides 
are  well  balanced,  and  they  each  believe  in  their  cases, 
it  will  go  to  trial  and  the  jury  will  make  the  final  deter- 
mination. 


That's  another  ball  game,  of  course,  because  of  the 
jiny.  They  have  no  special  skills  in  calculation,  no  spe- 
cial knowledge  of  technology  or  whatever  else  may  end 
up  being  introduced  into  that  courtroom.  They  generally 
don't  take  notes,  and  a  long  products  liability  trial  can 
last  three  to  six  weeks.  They  can't  even  talk  to  one  an- 
other during  the  trial  until  the  very  end,  when  they  de- 
liberate. An  awful  lot  of  testimony  must  get  lost  in  the 
process,  because  they  can't  possibly  remember  all  the 
important  statements.  I've  been  on  the  stand  for  as  long 
as  four  days  in  a  row.  That's  a  lot  of  testimony.  How 
can  jurors  possibly  retain  all  that's  important?  They 
can't,  of  course,  and  so  it  becomes  more  an  issue  of  the 
witness's  credibility. 

For  example,  take  an  accident  case  that  occmred  in 
New  Hampshire,  where  a  motorcycle  hit  a  Cadillac.  Af- 
ter examining  the  police  report,  I  was  able  to  calculate 
that  the  motorcycle  hit  the  Cadillac  at  84  miles  per 
hour,  and  that  it  was  accelerating  at  the  time.  I  did  this 
on  the  basis  of  the  trajectory  of  the  simglasses  the  mo- 
torcyclist had  been  wearing. 

This  was  a  $1  million  lawsuit.  When  we  went  to 
trial,  I  gave  the  jury  a  course  in  calculus  and  a  course  in 
dynamics.  I  derived  every  single  equation  that  I  used.  I 
explained  fully  to  the  jury  that  I  didn't  expect  them  to 
follow  what  I  was  doing  to  the  point  where  they  would 
become  engineers,  but  I  wanted  them  to  sec  that  there 
was  logic  behind  all  the  final  equations,  and  the  other 
expert  was  free  to  shoot  them  down  if  he  could.  Either 
they  had  to  show  Isaac  Newton  was  wrong,  or  I  made  an 
error. 

We  won  that  case.  It  took  a  major  amount  of  effort, 
and  the  jury  surely  didn't  imderstand  all  they  heard,  but 
they  had  somehow  to  believe  in  what  I  was  doing.  So 
they  were  in  college  for  four  days. 


10  /  Fall  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


V^«  It  sounds  like  the  fact  that  you're  a  professor  and 
used  to  teaching  is  a  distinct  advantage  at  times. 

I  think  that's  true  when  you're  trying  to  explain  some- 
thing to  a  jury.  Trials  can  be  very  complicated.  Products 
liability  is  one  type  of  thing,  and  accident 
reconstruction  is  another,  but  they  kind  of  blend  to- 
gether in  motor  vehicle  cases,  where  you  need  to  use  dy- 
namical calculations  and  mathematics  to  determine  the 
speeds  of  vehicles.  The  real  question  often  is,  was  it  the 
speed  of  the  vehicle  or  the  defect  in  the  automobile  that 
really  led  to  the  injury?  In  most  of  these  accident  recon- 
struction cases,  or  cases  involving  calculations,  some 
lawyers  really  get  lost — particularly  the  ones  who  ma- 
jored in  English  or  history,  hi  those  cases,  I  write  out  all 
the  questions  the  attorney  is  to  ask,  then  I  give  them 
the  answers  they  should  expect,  and  if  they  don't  get  the 
right  answer,  then  they  have  to  probe  around  until  they 
do  come  up  with  the  answer  we  need.  That  kind  of  di- 
rection helps  even  a  non-skilled  witness  come  across  in 
a  convincing  way,  because  the  questions  have  an  order 
to  them  that  makes  things  work  out. 

I  don't  want  you  to  get  the  impression  I'm  always 
on  the  winning  side.  I  lose  cases  too,  and  that  takes  get- 
ting used  to.  Juries  can  be  quite  peculiar.  As  firmly  as  I 
may  believe  the  facts  point  inescapably  to  one  conclu- 
sion, sometimes  I  know  the  jury  finds  the  other  way  out 
of  sympathy  for  the  person  involved.  That's  hard  on  me 
as  an  engineer  and  as  a  person,  because  it  seems  to  vio- 
late everything  I  stand  for.  When  I  lose  a  case  like  that,  I 
get  kind  of  depressed  and  discouraged,  but  I  have  to  be 
able  to  get  back  to  work  and  pull  myself  out  of  it,  and  in 
a  couple  of  weeks  the  depression  will  pass. 


X^*  You  seem  to  do  just  about  everything,  don't  you? 
does  that  make  you  the  "technological  humanist"  we 
talk  about  at  WPI— the  person  who  can  temper  his  tech- 
nical skills  with  judgment,  and  relate  his  professional 
work  in  a  meaningful  way  to  social  concerns  and 
human  values? 

Maybe.  I  do  know  that  I  have  a  lot  of  respect  for  the  In- 
teractive Qualifying  Project  (iqp)  which  we  require  of  all 
WPI  undergraduates.  In  the  iqp  we  have  our  students  do 
a  project  where  they  have  to  relate  their  technical  skills 
to  the  real  needs  of  society.  Sometimes  I'm  not  sure  just 
how  many  students  or  even  professors  really  understand 
what  the  iqp  is  all  about.  But  I  consider  myself  to  be  an 
acting  professional  in  the  field  of  iqps  (in  the  area  of 
products  liability).  It's  an  exact  match  of  technology  to 
law  to  IQP  to  what  we  do  here  at  WPI.  I  think  my  work 
provides  an  example,  a  role  model,  of  what  one  person 
at  WPI  can  do,  what  the  iqp  is  in  the  technology-law 
area,  what  one  engineering  professional  does  in  this  field 
as  a  consultant. 

My  iqp  students  do  their  projects  in  the  field  of 
products  liability,  and  they  leam  all  that  that  entails. 
Humanities  Professor  Tom  Shannon  teaches  a  course  on 
ethics,  and  I  visit  that  class  and  talk  about  what  I  do: 
the  tough  professional  decisions,  the  ethical  decisions 
you  have  to  make  when  you  can't  use  equations — the 
judgment  calls. 

A  few  years  ago,  I  presented  a  talk  at  the  University 
of  Massachusetts  on  ways  of  introducing  products  liabil- 
ity into  engineering  education.  It  frightened  the  profes- 
sors I  addressed  even  to  consider  this  a  part  of  their 
responsibility.  They'd  never  thought  about  it.  It  wasn't 
their  job. 

As  far  as  I'm  concerned,  it's  an  important  part  of 
my  job. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  FaU  1981  /  11 


Basically  Bemie 


by  Ruth  Trask 


a 

comm^fre 


UOTE  FROM  A  PARENT  of  an  in- 

reshman  after  attending 
the  newly  instituted  WPI  parent- 
student  summer  orientation  pro- 
gram held  on  campus  in  Jime:  "I 
posed  a  question  to  the  program  di- 
rector [Dean  Brown],  which  he  had 
to  research  and  answer.  He  sought 
me  out  among  the  crowd  and  an- 
swered my  question.  I  thought  to 
myself,  'Now  that's  incredible.'  " 

Add  approachable,  imaginative, 
and  irmovative  to  that  parent's  'in- 
credible,' and  you'll  get  the  basic 
Bernard  H.  Brown,  Dean  of  Stu- 
dents at  WPI.  During  Bemie's  15- 
year  career  at  WPI,  he's  had  plenty 
of  opportunity  to  display  his  many 
talents,  but  perhaps,  never  to  such 
advantage  to  WPI  as  this  summer 
during  his  shepherding  of  the  all- 
new  orientation  program. 

"The  program  was  purely  vol- 
untary," Bemie  explains.  "We  se- 
lected a  cross-section  of  150 
incoming  freshmen  and  their  par- 
ents to  spend  a  weekend  on 
campus.  Among  the  people  who 
spoke  to  the  parents  and  students 
during  the  weekend  were  staff 
members  from  Student  Affairs,  var- 
ious department  heads,  professors, 
and  project  advisors.  Of  special  im- 
portance were  the  student  orienta- 
tion leaders,  who  were  available  to 
give  first-hand  information  from  the 
student  perspective  about  WPI's  ac- 
ademic program,  the  faculty,  staff, 
and  student  life  in  general." 

On  two  consecutive  weekends, 
different  sets  of  parents  and  stu- 
dents were  housed  in  separate  resi- 
dence hails  and  served  traditional 
meals.  They  attended  orientation 


sessions  and  engaged  in  lively  post- 
lecture  discussions.  One  of  the 
most  popular  features  was  a  non- 
scripted  video-taped  session  dealing 
with  typical  campus  situations, 
such  as  roommate  adjustment,  peer 
pressures,  academic  concerns,  and 
parents'  anxieties.  (A  number  of 
parents  had  not  attended  college, 
and  they  found  the  tapes  as  infor- 
mative as  did  their  sons  and  daugh- 
ters.) The  tapes  were  created  by  the 
Instructional  Media  Center  on 
campus  with  WPI  students  from 
theater-related  courses  role-playing 
the  various  situations. 

The  orientation  effort  was  the 
initial  step  in  a  totally  new  parents' 
program  which  will  include  a  com- 
plete Parents'  Day  in  November, 
communications  throughout  the 
year  to  parents,  and  a  Parents' 
Handbook  to  assist  in  their  under- 
standing of  WPI  and  the  environ- 
ment their  son  or  daughter  is  about 
to  experience. 

The  summer  program  will  be 
evaluated  by  the  Office  of  Student 
Affairs,  and  a  recommendation 
given  to  the  President's  Advisory 
Council  some  time  this  fall.  Says 
Bemie,  "The  problem  with  creating 
a  successful  program  like  this  is 
that  it  puts  greater  demands  on  an 
aheady  overworked  staff  to  do  an 
even  better  job  the  next  time." 

Overall  comment  following  the 
fledgling  program  was  highly  favor- 
able. Over  60  percent  of  the  parents 
and  incoming  students  returned 
evaluation  questionnaires.  One  par- 
ent wrote:  "Everyone  involved  was 
most  helpful  ....  We  felt  privi- 
leged to  be  a  part  of  it  ....  It 
was  the  most  rewarding  and  profit- 
able one-and-a-half  days  that  we've 
spent  in  a  long  time."  Another  said: 
"The  manner  in  which  the  faculty 
and  students  conducted  themselves 
is  excellent  advertising  for  WPI  and 
gives  parents  a  nice  feeling  about 
the  school." 

The  incoming  freshmen  were 
also  impressed.  Said  one,  "There 
was  an  unusual  atmosphere  of 
friendliness  in  everyone  I  met."  An- 
other agreed:  "One  of  the  best  parts 
of  the  program  was  meeting  new 
people,  both  staff  and  students."  Yet 


another  summed  up  what  most  of 
the  prospective  students  indicated: 
"I  feel  the  summer  orientation  pro- 
gram is  an  excellent  idea  and  should 
continue  to  be  offered  ....  I 
learned  a  great  deal  about  the  aca- 
demics, programs,  activities,  and 
student  life.  If  I  had  not  partici- 
pated, I  think  I  would  be  like  a 
chicken  running  around  without  its 
head  in  the  fall." 

According  to  the  evaluation 
sheets,  the  number  of  headless 
chickens  at  WPI  should  be  far  fewer 
this  fall,  thanks  to  Bemie  Brown's 
progressive-looking  orientation 
program. 


A 


.N  EARLIER  BrOWN  VENTURE  is 

Cinematech,  a  program  in  which 
many  of  the  best  contemporary  in- 
ternational films  available  are 
shown  free  to  the  campus  and 
Worcester  community.  "Actually, 
one  of  our  early  social  chairmen  ap- 
proached me  with  the  idea  about 
eleven  years  ago,"  he  says.  "He  was 
interested  in  showing  some  interna- 
tional films,  and  had  discovered  a 
'gem'  by  the  name  of  Minnie 
Levenson,  who  had  previously  been 
affiliated  with  films  at  the  Worces- 
ter Art  Museum.  Minnie  has  been 
with  us  ever  since.  The  first  couple 
of  years  we  had  to  drag  students  in 
as  they  passed  by  Alden  Memorial 
Auditorium.  This  past  season  was 
Cinematech 's  finest  hour,  as  we  had 
two  showings  of  all  the  films  and 


J2/FaU  1981  /  The  WPI  loumd 


turned  people  away  practically  ev- 
ery showing.  The  program  has  such 
a  good  reputation  now,  thanks  to 
Minnie  Levenson's  expertise  and 
hard  work,  that  the  Canadian  con- 
sulate has  offered  us  a  film  for  this 
year's  series  at  no  charge.  They 
want  very  much  to  be  a  part  of  such 
a  prestigious  program." 

Besides  using  his  innovative 
touch  with  the  orientation  program 
and  Cinematech,  Bemie  has  helped 
inject  new  ideas  into  the  1981-82 
Student  Handbook.  "Last  year  we 
scrapped  the  freshman  directory, 
at  least  the  kind  we  used  to  have," 
he  says.  "We  opted  for  an  all- 
student  type  of  publication  which 
would  serve  the  entire  campus. 
And  this  year  we've  added  a  touch 
of  humor." 

A  perusal  of  the  new  handbook, 
which  Bemie  has  worked  on  with 
Charlotte  Wharton,  graphic  designer 
from  Publications,  proves  his  point. 
Interspersed  with  nuts  and  bolts  rn- 
formatipn  about  everything  on 
campus  from  academics  to  activi- 
ties, are  off-beat  illustrations  and 
old-time  movie  photos  with  new, 
WPI-related  captions.  For  example, 
under  a  photo  of  Laurel  and  Hardy 
costumed  as  elves  in  Santa's  work- 
shop runs  the  caption:  "The  Project 
Center  is  open  every  weekday  eve- 
ning for  students  to  research  their 
IQP's." 


Along  with  his  recent  promo- 
tion, Bemie,  who  came  to  WPI  via 
Springfield  College  and  the  Univer- 
sity of  Connecticut,  continues  with 
his  long-term  responsibilities  for  in- 
ternational students  and  student 
government.  "I  have  always  advised 
the  international  students,"  he  re- 
ports. During  the  Iranian  crisis,  he 
helped  Iranian  students  who  had 
difficulty  getting  money  out  of  their 
country,  and  who  had  lost  contact 
with  their  families.  "We  had  an  ob- 
ligation to  them.  We  still  do." 

Currently,  Bemie  is  involved  in 
establishing  an  international  house 
for  students  on  campus.  "We  should 
be  able  to  use  a  school-owned  house 
adjacent  to  the  campus  by  Novem- 
ber," he  says.  "It  is  one  of  the  most 
exciting  opportunities  we  have  had 
and  should  allow  for  an  easier  as- 
simulation  to  our  culture  and  our 
way  of  life  for  the  international 
population." 

At  present,  there  are  about  230 
international  graduate  and  under- 
graduate students  at  WPI.  They 
come  from  different  backgrounds, 
and  have  different  needs  and  con- 
cerns: English  as  a  second  language; 
orientation  to  our  academic  process; 
culture  shock;  housing  and  medical 
information.  Bemie  helps  the  stu- 
dents prepare  for  any  eventuality. 

He  still  heads  the  club  sport 
program,  which  now  includes  22 


various  clubs,  many  with  coaches  of 
their  own.  The  crew  team  partici- 
pated at  the  Henley  Royal  Regatta 
in  England  this  summer.  A  few 
years  ago,  the  WPI  club  bowling 
team  won  the  national  collegiate 
championship,  and  the  lacrosse 
team  has  recently  had  a  number  of 
successful  seasons.  The  club  sport 
program  has  come  a  long  way.  At 
present,  over  400  participants  are 
enjoying  a  competitive,  healthy, 
athletic  experience,  which  could 
lead  to  a  lifetime  of  recreational 
sports  participation. 

Bemie's  recent  promotion  to 
dean  means  that  he  can  concentrate 
on  planning  and  on  the  more  crea- 
tive areas,  while  still  retaining  some 
association  with  his  former  activi- 
ties. He  continues  to  advise  the  stu- 
dent government  and  the  officers  of 
all  four  classes,  and  he  oversees  all 
the  activities  of  the  Senior  Class. 

There  have  been  other  recent 
changes  in  the  Office  of  Student  Af- 
fairs (osa).  Currently,  Bemie  reports 
to  Robert  Reeves,  Vice  President  for 
Student  Affairs,  who  joined  WPI 
two  years  ago.  Janet  Begin  is  Assis- 
tant Dean  of  Students,  and  Glenn 
DeLuca,  Assistant  Director  of  Stu- 
dent Activities.  Both  report  to  Ber- 
nie.  Additionally,  Patty  Lewis, 
Coordinator  of  Residence  Opera- 
tions, also  reports  to  the  osa. 

As  Dean  of  Students,  Bemie 
deals  with  some  student  counseling 
and  a  variety  of  other  situations  in 
his  campus  office,  but  he  doesn't 
have  to  be  there  to  know  what  is 
going  on.  Since  last  year  the  office 
has  installed  a  'beeper'  system  to  be 
able  to  keep  in  constant  touch  with 
everyone,  to  take  care  of  breaking 
developments  and  emergencies,  no 
matter  where  they  might  be.  "Just 
ask  my  wife,  Gayle,  about  the  new 
system,"  he  says.  "I  forgot  to  tell 
her  I  had  the  beeper  at  home  one 
weekend,  and  when  it  went  off,  she 
thought  it  was  the  smoke  alarm  and 
started  to  rush  the  kids  out  of  the 
house.  It's  that  loud!" 

He  chuckles.  "Looks  like 
the  beeper  is  one  Student  Affairs 
innovation  that  still  needs  some 
refining." 


The  WPI  journal  /  Fall  1981  /  13 


I9I7 


Russell  Callahan  writes  that  he  still  sings 
tenor  in  the  church  choir.  He  also  serves  as 
music  committee  chairman  and  deacon  for 
the  church. 


1930 


Carl  Backstrom,  long-time  chairman  of  the 
Citations  Committee  has  stepped  down  from 
being  top  man  to  a  committee  member. 
'Time  for  a  yoimger  man,"  he  says.  Prof.  Ken 
Scott,  '48  will  be  the  new  chairman.  As  the 
father  steps  down,  the  son  steps  up.  Carl's 
son,  Gregory,  '70  is  now  the  president  of  the 
Worcester  County  Chapter  of  the  WPI 
Alumni  Association. 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Harold  Williamson  cele- 
brated their  fiftieth  wedding  anniversary  on 
June  28th  at  a  reception  planned  by  their 
daughter  and  son-in-law  at  the  Florida  Insti- 
tute of  Technology  in  Mclboiune. 


1931 


Warren  Doubleday  and  Roger  Lonergan,  were 

not  only  classmates  at  WPI,  they  both  be- 
came closely  associated  with  the  Quabbin 
Reservoir  project  in  Massachusetts  during  the 
Depression.  I>)ubleday,  who  lost  his  family 
home  when  the  town  of  Dana  was  flooded  to 
make  way  for  the  reservoir,  worked  as  a  civil 
engineer  on  the  project  starting  in  19.13.  He 
was  sad  about  the  loss  of  his  home,  but  in  the 
depth  of  the  Depression,  he  really  needed  the 
job.  "I  always  |{K)ked  at  it  from  an  engineer- 
ing standpoint.  There  was  no  question  it  was 
a  g(Kxl  place  to  put  a  reservoir"  For  the  last 
two  years,  Lonergan  has  served  as  the  MDC 
supervisor  of  the  reservoir  His  involvement 
in  the  project  began  in  1928  with  a  summer 
job,  and  he  has  worked  as  an  engineer  for  the 
MDC  ever  since.  He  is  also  a  town  clerk  for 
four  towns. 


Phil  Pierce,  who  came  the  greatest  dis- 
tance (drove!)  to  attend  his  50th  reunion  this 
summer  writes:  "Two  others  came  from  Cali- 
fornia, Red  Sage  and  Cliff  Bergquist,  but  I  was 
introduced  to  spherical  trigonometry  by 
'Happy'  Gay,  and  I  believe  that  'great  circle' 
distances  would  prove  me  correct  even 
though  I  do  live  on  the  east  side  of  our  street 
here." 

He  says  that  he  and  his  wife  Irma,  "en- 
joyed the  50th  golden  reunion  beyond 
words— one  of  life's  memorable  highlights." 


1932 


Constantine  Orfanos'  yoimgest  daughter  re- 
cently graduated  from  the  University  of  Cali- 
fornia at  Irvine.  She  received  a  BA  in  fine  arts. 

Leon  Skuropat  is  still  located  in  Sao 
Paulo,  Brazil. 


1933 


In  May,  Alexander  Alves  was  awarded  an  hon- 
orary doctor  of  engineering  degree  during 
commencement  ceremonies  at  Tri-State  Uni- 
versity in  Angola,  Indiana.  Bom  in  Brazil,  he 
earned  his  bachelor's  degree  in  mechanical 
engineering  from  Tri-State  in  1931,  and  re- 
ceived his  second  BSME  from  WPI  in  1933. 
Alves,  who  is  chairman  of  the  board  of  Engi- 
neered Sinterings  and  Plastics,  Inc.,  has 
published  a  number  of  technical  papers  on 
sintered  metals,  including  magnetic  proper- 
ties of  sintered  powder  and  on  plastics.  He 
served  as  secretary  and  chairman  of  the 
American  Society  of  Mechanical  Engineers, 
Waterbury,  Conn,  section,  and  has  been  listed 
in  Who's  Who  in  New  England  and  Who's 
Who  in  Engineering.  In  1974,  he  received  the 
Distinguished  Service  Award  from  the  Tri- 
State  National  Alumni  Association. 

Bill  Slagle  writes  that  he  is  in  over  his 
head  in  church  work.  He  serves  as  church 
clerk  and  had  to  prepare  reports  and  statistics 
for  the  annual  April  meeting.  Also,  he  has 
served  as  chairman  of  a  committee  rewriting 
the  church  by-laws  and  as  chairman  of  the 
music  committee.  He  is  located  in  Mcdford, 
Mass. 


1937 


In  lune,  Gordon  Crowther  retired  after  com- 
pleting nearly  44  years  of  service  with  Indus- 
trial Risk  Insurers,  formerly  the  Factory 
Insurance  Association,  a  leading  international 


underwriter  of  commercial  property  insiu'- 
ance.  He  joined  IRI  following  his  graduation 
from  WPI,  and  has  held  a  variety  of  engineer- 
ing supervisory  positions  throughout  his  long 
career,  culminating  with  his  post  as  engineer- 
ing personnel  administrator  in  the  home  of- 
fice. Recently  inducted  into  the  Society  of 
Fire  Protection  Engineers,  Gordon  has  long 
been  associated  with  the  Honorable  Order  of 
the  Blue  Goose  International  (an  insurance 
group),  which  he  served  as  a  past  Most  Loyal 
Grand  Gander  (i.e.,  president).  He  has  been 
active  with  the  WPI  Alumni  Association  in 
many  capacities,  including  that  of  executive 
committee  member,  fimd-raising  committee 
member,  and  president  of  the  local  alumni 
chapter.  In  1977,  he  received  the  Herbert  F. 
Taylor  Award  "in  recognition  of  distinguished 
service  to  WPI."  In  retirement,  Gordon  and 
his  wife  Ivye  will  continue  to  live  in  Hart- 
ford, Conn.  Although  they  have  already  vis- 
ited 49  states  and  much  of  Canada,  Greece, 
Bermuda,  and  England,  they  hope  to  do  more 
traveling,  principally  on  the  North  American 
continent.  Gordon  plans  to  remain  active 
with  the  Masons,  ATO,  and  with  WPI  alumni 
activities. 

Dana  Woodward  continues  as  president 
of  American  Shoe  Machinery  Co.  His  firm  de- 
veloped the  American  Tru-Fit  Shank  System, 
a  machine  which  automatically  cuts  the  ma- 
terial to  the  correct  length,  positions  it  on  the 
insole  to  an  exact  fit,  then  bonds  it  and  cures 
it  with  heat,  making  it  a  rigid  shank.  The  sys- 
tem quickly  became  recognized  and  accepted 
by  most  major  shoe  manufacturers,  one  rea- 
son being  that  it  cut  the  cost  of  the  shanking 
operation.  Currently,  the  company  is  the  U.S. 
agent  for  shoe-making  equipment  produced  in 
Germany,  Denmark,  Italy,  and  Mexico. 


1938 


John  Despo  is  now  retired  and  lives  in  West- 
lake,  Ohio. 


1939 


George  Yule  recently  sold  the  long-time  fam- 
ily business,  Leominster  (Mass.)  Granite  and 
Marble  Works.  Over  the  years,  the  firm  de- 
signed and  built  a  number  of  monuments  in 
Leominster,  including  the  World  War  I  vet- 
erans' monument,  the  Spanish  War  veterans' 
monument,  the  Johnny  Applcseed  monu- 
ment, and  the  Indian  mortar  monument.  A 
bell  commemorating  the  Korean  War  was  de- 
signed by  Cieorge. 


14  /  FaU  1981  /  The  WPI  journal 


I940 


Herbert  Morse  writes:  "In  February  GE  asked 
me  to  consider  working  at  a  new  satellite 
plant  in  Wilmington,  N.C.  This  plant  is  start- 
ing to  make  components  for  jet  engines  that 
were  previously  machined  in  Cincinnati.  I 
had  worked  with  these  parts  in  a  similar  ca- 
pacity for  over  25  years,  and  the  experience  in 
systems,  methods,  problem  areas  and  unique 
operations  was  needed  in  this  new  facility." 
Currently,  he  holds  the  post  of  senior  engi- 
neer for  quality  control  in  Wilmington.  "This 
is  an  interesting  phase  of  the  business  with 
many  challenges  and  opportimities  to  apply 
past  experience  to  a  growing  area.  The  move 
to  a  totally  different  climate,  farther  south 
and  near  the  ocean,  is  a  noticeable  change 
and  is  very  rewarding."  Morse  expects  to  be 
in  North  Carolina  for  two  years,  and  then  re- 
tire to  Cinciimati. 


1941 


Robert  Brautigam  continues  as  technical 
manager  for  Durez  Plastics  Division  of  Cana- 
dianOxy  Chemicals,  Ltd.  in  Ft.  Erie,  Ontario, 
Canada.  The  firm  is  concerned  with  phenolic 
molding  compounds  and  resins.  Bob,  who 
says  he  enjoys  excellent  health,  plays  golf  and 
teimis,  and  hopes  to  take  up  skiing  again,  hi 
the  summer,  he  and  his  family  vacation  in 
their  rustic  cabin  at  Georgian  Bay  on  Lake 
Huron.  Last  year,  he  had  an  exciting  reimion 
with  his  brothers,  Mike,  '43,  and  Lawrence, 
'49,  and  their  families  in  Frankfurt,  Germany. 
Stanley  Ribb  has  been  named  senior  vice 
president  at  Blackstone  Valley  Electric  Co., 
where  he  recently  stepped  down  as  president. 
It  is  expected  that  he  will  retire  later  this 
year.  Blackstone  is  a  subsidiary  of  Eastern 
Utilities  Associates.  Ribb  was  president  of  the 
utility  for  the  past  ten  years.  A  resident  of 
Cumberland,  R. I.,  he  is  married  and  the  fa- 
ther of  two  sons. 

For  career-long  excellence  in  teaching  de- 
sign. Dr.  Charles  Smith,  former  professor  of 
engineering  at  the  University  of  Nebraska, 
has  been  awarded  the  first  Fred  Merryfield 
Design  Award  from  ASEE.  The  award  is  spon- 
sored by  CH2M  Hill.  Smith,  whose  career  in 
education  spans  40  years,  is  credited  with  a 
pioneering  program  at  the  University  of  De- 
troit that  "raised  engineering  design  educa- 
tion to  the  master's  and  doctoral  levels."  A 
former  student  said  Smith's  design  courses 
differed  from  the  traditional  ones  by  his  use 
of  unstructured  real-world  issues.  Ln  addition, 
the  majority  of  his  courses  enlisted  outside 
clients,  who  brought  not  only  their  problems 
to  the  classroom  but  also  their  active  partici- 
pation in  the  design  process.  The  City  of  De- 
troit was  a  client.  Smith  wrote  nearly  90 


research  papers  and  15  ASEE  engineering  case 
studies,  ranging  from  "To  Pinch  or  Not  to 
Pinch"  to  "Problem  of  the  Perverse  Pinion." 
His  recently-received  award  consists  of 
$1,000,  a  plaque,  and  a  $500  stipend  for  travel 
to  the  Annual  Conference.  In  addition,  his 
former  department  at  Nebraska  will  receive 
$500.  This  fall,  he  will  take  up  a  new  post  on 
the  faculty  of  Rose-Hulman  Institute  of  Tech- 
nology in  Terre  Haute,  Indiana. 


1942 


Bob  Allen  is  with  the  Pump  Group  at 
higersoll-Rand  in  Phillipsburg,  N.J. 


1943 


Robert  Schedin  continues  as  president  and 
chief  executive  officer  at  Fairlawn  Hospital, 
Worcester.  Fairlawn  is  one  of  three  hospitals 
in  Worcester  which  pioneered  same-day  sur- 
gery. Although  the  smallest  hospital  in  the 
city,  it  has  by  far  the  busiest  same-day  pro- 
gram in  the  area.  Schedin,  who  promoted  the 
irmovative  program,  has  an  unlikely  back- 
groimd  for  hospital  administration.  Prior  to 
joining  Fairlawn  in  1972,  he  had  designed 
looms  at  Crompton  &  Knowles  Corp.  for  28 
.years,  rising  to  director  of  engineering. 


1944 


In  June,  Earl  Harris  was  honored  by  the  board 
of  directors  of  Rodney  Himt  Co.  following  his 
25  years  of  service  as  president  of  the  firm. 
The  board  presented  him  with  a  resolution 
acknowledging  his  contribution  as  chief  exec- 
utive officer  to  the  success  and  growth  of  the 
company,  his  service  to  the  community,  and 
his  contribution  to  the  cause  of  professional 
management.  He  joined  Rodney  Himt  in 
1946  and  became  president  in  1956.  He  at- 
tended Dartmouth,  MIT,  WPI,  Babson  histi- 
tute,  Lowell  Tech,  and  the  University  of  West 
Virginia.  During  World  War  E,  he  served  in 
the  U.S.  Army  with  overseas  service  in  the 
China-Btirma-India  theater.  Currently,  he  is  a 
director  of  the  Blue  Shield  of  Massachusetts 
and  a  member  of  the  Business  Advisory 
Coimcil  of  the  University  of  Massachusetts. 
Also,  he  is  a  trustee  of  the  Orange  Savings 
Bank.  Formerly,  he  served  as  director  of  the 
American  Management  Association,  director 
of  the  Presidents'  Association  of  AMA,  and 
treasurer  of  the  New  England  Chapter  of  the 
Young  Presidents'  Association. 


It's  in  the  bag 
for  him 

WPI  Trustee  Ray  Forkey,  '40,  walked  off 
with  some  handsome  luggage  at  the  Bel- 
leview  Biltmore  Hotel  in  Clearwater, 
Florida  last  April.  But  instead  of  beiaig 
arrested,  he  was  applauded! 

The  story?  Ray  and  his  partner,  Flo- 
ridian  Dr.  George  Dickinson,  won  sec- 
ond prize  at  the  Southern  Seniors  Golf 
Association  54  Holes  Team  Stroke 
Championship  held  on  the  Biltmore  golf 
cotirses.  Their  team  of  two,  best  ball, 
gross  score  was:  70-72-69,  for  a  total  of 
211.  "We  finished  just  one  stroke  higher 
than  the  winners." 

Ray,  who  is  chairman  of  the  current 
WPI  Capital  Program,  has  played  in  this 
particular  tournament  before,  but  this 
was  the  first  time  he  took  home  a  prize. 
This  year,  the  second  prize  winners 
were  awarded  large  flight  bags. 

Previously,  Ray  has  won  the 
Worcester  Country  Club  Golf  Club 
Championship  twelve  times.  Recently, 
he  qualified  for  the  Massachusetts  State 
Amateur  Championship,  which  is  slated 
for  mid-July  at  the  Taconic  Golf  Club  in 
Williamstown,  Mass. 

The  Southern  Seniors  Golf  Associa- 
tion accepts  members  who  are  55  and 
over.  It  has  a  membership  of  1,800.  The 
Association  sponsors  a  number  of  tour- 
naments annually  throughout  the 
South.  Tournaments  are  scheduled  this 
year  in  Southern  Pines,  North  Carolina, 
Pine  Mountain,  Georgia,  and  Orlando, 
Florida. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Fall  1981  /  15 


1946 


Willaid  Adams  continues  as  general  manager 
of  operations,  eastern  region,  of  the  American 
Telephone  &  Telegraph  Co.,  Long  Lines, 
Oakton,  Virginia. 

Last  year,  John  Lott  Brown  was  elected 
to  the  board  of  directors  of  the  Public  Broad- 
casting Service.  He  is  president  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  South  Florida. 

George  Button  II  writes  that  he  has 
switched  from  wholesale  office  machines  to 
building  and  investing  in  Florida  real  estate. 
Located  in  Boca  Raton,  he  still  collects  and 
restores  antique  automobiles. 

John  Carpenter,  Jr.  is  a  manufacturers' 
representative  in  Walloon  Lake,  Mich.  Pres- 
ently, he  represents  Wick  Homes  of  Mazoma- 
nie,  Wis.  in  North  Dakota,  South  Dakota, 
Montana,  Wyoming,  Idaho,  Utah,  and  Colo- 
rado. He  enjoys  world  travel,  especially  in  the 
Orient.  Last  year  he  went  to  China  for  the 
third  time. 

Ken  Chafin  serves  as  major  project  direc- 
tor in  the  corporate  engineering  department 
at  Monsanto  Company  in  St.  Louis.  Recently, 
he  spent  18  months  in  Florida  and  six  months 
in  Australia. 

Henry  Chin  is  vice  president  at  Drexel, 
Bumham,  Lamben  in  Los  Angeles,  a  member 
of  the  New  York  Stock  Exchange.  He  belongs 
to  the  Shrine  and  is  a  post  commander  for  the 
American  Legion.  Last  year,  he  toured  in 
Scandinavia. 

Robert  Davis  has  spent  all  of  his  career  as 
a  member  of  a  family  commercial  printing 
company,  Davis-Delaney-Arrow,  in  New  York 
City.  He  has  been  president  since  1968.  He 
writes:  "Had  a  marvelous  trip  on  Auggie  Kel- 
lemian's  sailing  yacht.  He's  a  great  captain, 
but  I  kept  my  eye  on  the  shoreline!" 

Currently,  Wilton  Ericson  serves  as 
principal  process  engineer  at  Blaw-Knox 
Co.,  Chemical  Plants  Division,  where  he 
started  as  a  process  engineer  in  1946.  The 
firm  is  now  pan  of  Dravo  Engineers  and 
Constructors. 

fames  Evans,  Jr.,  who  has  been  with  Bell 
Telephone  Labs  since  1949,  has  been  supervi- 
sor since  1958.  He  enjoys  amateur  radio  He 
and  his  wife  have  four  boys  and  four  girls  and 
live  in  Andover,  Mass.   "The  two  years  my 
family  and  I  spent  in  Iran  for  GTE  building 
the  national  microwave  system  were  perhaps 
the  most  exciting  we  have  had,"  writes 
Robert  Farwcll  of  Stamford,  Conn  At  the 
present  time,  he  is  vice  president  of  market 
development  in  the  Ciommunications  Prod- 
ucts Group  at  GTE,  He  has  served  on  the 
school  committee  and  participated  in  many 
civic  and  church  activities,  especially  in  Lex- 
ington, Mass.,  where  the  family  lived  for  28 
years 

Leslie  Flood  holds  the  post  of  vice  presi- 
dent of  Hutton  I'ubiishing,  which  is  a  small 
company  specializing  in  annual  catalog/ 
directories   H<-  !•-  located  m  Ndrifi  Kings- 
town, R.I 


Howard  France  is  president  of  Wood  In- 
dustrial Products  Company,  Conshohocken, 
Pa.,  manufacturers  of  pressure  vessels,  a  post 
he  has  held  since  1971.  Active  in  community 
affairs,  he  is  director  and  past  president  of  the 
local  Chamber  of  Commerce;  past  vice  chair- 
man and  director  of  the  Conshohocken  Bi- 
centennial Commission;  and  past  president  of 
the  Northampton  Township  Civic  Associa- 
tion. He  was  appointed  to  a  subcommittee  of 
a  committee  of  the  ASME. 

Last  year,  Donald  GUmore  retired  from 
Rodney  Hunt  Co.,  Orange,  Mass.,  after  nearly 
30  years  of  service.  He  is  a  registered  profes- 
sional engineer  in  Massachusetts  and  past 
master  of  a  Masonic  Lodge.  "At  50  I  became  a 
motorcycle  enthusiast."  In  four  years  he  and 
Althea  toured  through  40  states  and  five  Ca- 
nadian provinces  on  his  R/90  BMW,  ulti- 
mately chalking  up  some  50  thousand  miles. 
Paul  Gorman  is  director  and  group  vice 
president  of  engineering  and  design  at  Chas. 
T  Main,  Inc.,  Boston.  Besides  being  a  cor- 
porator of  Wentworth  Institute  of  Technology 
and  of  Peoples  Savings  Bank  of  Brockton,  he 
is  a  member  of  the  Executive  Club  of  the 
Greater  Boston  Chamber  of  Commerce. 

William  Grogan,  dean  of  undergraduate 
studies  at  WPI,  was  recently  appointed  a 
member  of  the  Board  of  Investment  at  Bay 
State  Savings  Bank,  Worcester.  He  has  been  a 
trustee  since  1973. 

Since  February  of  1979,  the  Rev.  Prescott 
Grout  has  entered  "active  retirement"  from 
pastoral  ministry.  He  is  a  design  drafter  at  Ri- 
ley Stoker  in  Worcester.  The  Grouts  live  on  a 
9-acre  farm  in  Dudley,  where  they  raise  beef 
cattle  and  chickens,  keep  horses,  and  tend  a 
garden. 

Since  1948,  Walter  Hatch  has  been  with 
Exxon  Research  and  Engineering  Co.  Follow- 
ing overseas  duty  in  the  1960's  and  early 
'70's,  he  is  currently  licensing  coordinator  in 
the  petroleum  department  of  ER&E  in  the 
main  engineering  offices  in  Florham  Park, 
N.j.  He  enjoys  skiing. 

Robert  Hayward  says  that  he  has  served 
20  years  as  a  Presbyterian  clergyman  and  10 
years  as  an  investment  advisor  and  director  of 
several  companies.  Civic  minded,  he  has 
been  a  board  member  for  numerous  commu- 
nity and  educational  institutions. 

Gary  Hovhanesian,  over  the  years,  has 
served  GE  in  many  capacities,  including  that 
of  design  engineer,  laboratory  supervisor,  de- 
velopment engineer,  and  product  planner.  At 
one  time  he  was  president  and  managing  di- 
rector of  a  housewares  manufacturing  plant 
in  Singapore.  "Planned,  built,  staffed,  and  op- 
erated from  ground  up."  Back  in  Bridgeport, 
he  has  been  involved  with  overseas  support 
operations,  and  worked  as  product  quality 
manager,  and  quality  systems  manager.  He  is 
a  registered  professional  engineer  in  Massa- 
chusetts, a  Mason,  and  a  Sunday  School 
principal. 


Family  histor>'  and  genealogy  are  the  ma- 
jor hobbies  of  Robert  Hull.  He  owns  an  Apple 
n  computer  for  word  processing,  and  he  is 
now  in  the  process  of  writing  three  books  and 
publishing  a  Hull  family  newsletter.  At  Pratt 
&.  Whitney  and  Lockheed  he  has  made  a  ca- 
reer out  of  the  propulsion  engineering  end  of 
aircraft  and  missiles.  "I  designed,  analyzed, 
and  programmed  for  the  propulsion  imits  for 
two  out  of  three  legs  of  the  Triad."  Now  he  is 
engaged  in  the  preliminary  design  for  Trident 
n  solid  rocket  motors.  He  has  invented  sev- 
eral fuel  control  systems,  some  of  which  are 
still  in  use  on  most  commercial  planes  flying 
today.  Hull's  wife,  Barbara,  is  a  member  of 
the  Sweet  Adelines,  an  international  champi- 
onship barbershop  chorus  (Mission  Valley 
Chapter),  San  Jose,  Calif. 

Foster  Jacobs  is  director  of  planning  and 
plant  at  Southeastern  Massachusetts  Univer- 
sity in  North  Dartmouth.  He  says  that  he's 
still  pursuing  a  life-long  interest  in  philology. 

A  professional  engineer  in  California,  Al- 
lan Johnson  belongs  to  the  Society  of  Fire  Pro- 
tection Engineers.  During  his  career,  he  has 
served  as  senior  vice  president  and  director  of 
Kemper  International  Insurance  Co.  and  of 
the  American  Prot.  Insurance  Co.  Currently, 
he  is  located  in  Libertyville,  111. 

Joe  Johnson  is  in  his  35th  year  with  Pratt 
&.  Whitney  Aircraft /United  Technologies, 
where  he  holds  the  post  of  group  supervisor  of 
support  equipment  engineering.  He  is  in- 
volved with  solar  house  designs  for  a  Cape 
Cod  retirement  home. 

For  18  years,  Wilbur  Jones  has  been  asso- 
ciated with  what  is  now  the  Federal  Energy 
Regulatory  Commission  in  Washington,  D.C. 
His  present  post  is  that  of  public  utilities  spe- 
cialist. He  collects  sports  publications  for  a 
hobby. 

August  Kellermann  is  vice  president  of 
international  operations  at  Conoco  Chemi- 
cals Company  in  Stamford,  Conn.  For  pas- 
times he  enjoys  golf,  sailing,  swimming,  and 
tennis,  as  well  as  dining.  "Am  master  of  my 
own  boat." 

Since  1967,  John  Knibb,  Jr.  has  been  pas- 
tor of  Hampton  |Va.)  Christian  Church.  He 
still  loves  to  fly  in  all  kinds  of  aircraft,  includ- 
ing Navy  torpedo  bombers,  DC-9's,  Cessna 
150's,  Piper  Cherokees,  gliders,  Boeing  747's, 
and  the  Concorde  SST  In  1978,  he  flew  north 
of  the  Arctic  Circle  over  Baffin  Island.  He  is 
listed  in  a  number  of  editions  of  Who's  Who. 

As  a  result  of  the  missile  and  space  cut- 
back, Frederick  Kull  changed  jobs  and  is  now 
administrator  of  the  grade  crossing  signaliza- 
tion  program  for  the  Southern  Railway  Co. 
He  is  a  liaison  between  the  railroad  and  states 
on  the  programs  in  the  13  Southeastern 
states.  Among  his  hobbies  are  gardening  and 
travel. 

This  is  M.  Daniel  Lacedoni^'s  25th  year 
at  Hamilion  Standard  Division/United  Tech- 
nologies, Windsor  Locks,  Cxmn.  For  the  last 
decade,  he  has  been  chief  of  materials  control 
and  test  Active  in  civic  affairs,  he  has  been 
involved  with  the  ambulance  service,  various 
town  committees,  and  the  Lions  Club.  He 
writes:  "Frustrated  Red  Sox  fan!" 


For  33  years,  Arthur  Lagadinos  has  been 
with  ISO  (Insurance  Services  Office),  Boston, 
where  he  is  staff  supervisor  of  pricing  serv- 
ices. He  is  on  the  national  board  of  trustees  of 
the  Order  of  AHEPA,  the  board  of  directors  of 
St.  Spyridon's  Greek  Orthodox  Church,  and 
he  does  part-time  teaching  of  fire  science 
covirses  at  Quinsigamond  Community  Col- 
lege. His  wife,  Helen,  is  secretary  for  the  bio- 
medical engineering  department  at  WPI. 

Richard  Lawton  is  president  and  trea- 
svirer  of  Buell  Automatics,  Inc.,  an  automatic 
screw  machine  products  company  specializ- 
ing in  high-volume  work  l/8"-3/4"  diameter. 
Buell  currently  employs  53  people,  with  sales 
approaching  $3  million  spread  throughout  the 
country  to  automotive,  business  machine,  ap- 
pliance, ordnance,  and  ball  bearing  firms. 
Lawton  serves  as  director  of  the  Rochester 
Automatic  Training  Center. 

Bo  Lutts  is  owner-publisher-editor  of 
"The  Cabot  Market  Letter",  a  financial  news- 
letter relating  to  the  stock  market.  Lutts, 
who  is  located  in  Salem,  Mass.,  writes  that 
he  is  still  playing  the  clarinet,  usually  in  a 
couple  of  local  traditional  jazz  bands.  He  and 
Nancy  have  five  children. 

With  the  Foxboro  Company  since  1967, 
Kenneth  Lyons  is  now  a  systems  specialist  in 
the  human  resource  function  of  EDP.  He  was 
involved  in  the  organization  of  Sigma  Phi  Ep- 
silon  chapters  at  MIT  and  BU.  Active  with 
the  Masons,  BSA,  and  teaching  data  process- 
ing at  Chamber layne  Junior  College,  he  also 
serves  as  director  of  the  Braintree  Historical 
Society.  He  served  on  former  Gov.  Volpe's 
(Mass.)  Management  Engineering  Task  Force. 
He  is  a  10th  generation  descendant  of  John 
Alden,  and  has  become  a  member  of  the 
Mass.  Society  of  Mayflower  Descendants  and 
the  Alden  Kindred  of  America. 

Jim  Maloney  holds  the  post  of  area  man- 
ager of  the  marketing  department  at  Geo.  J. 
Meyer  Manufacturing  in  New  Jersey.  He 
keeps  several  of  his  owm  horses  at  his  horse 
farm  in  Moorestown. 

After  25  years  with  Hughes  Aircraft, 
Frederick  Marvin  has  retired,  and  has  started 
full  time  with  Hughes  Helicopters,  a  com- 
pletely separate  company  from  the  aircraft 
company.  He  is  doing  liaison  engineering  on 
the  missile  firing  system  of  the  YAH-64  2- 
place  attack  helicopter,  which  is  due  to  go 
into  production  for  the  U.S.  Army  by  1982. 
He  keeps  busy  with  church  work,  too,  rides 
his  bike  to  work,  and  jogs  several  times  a 
week.  He  has  served  recently  as  a  WPI  class 
agent. 

Pont  for  35  years,  is  now  a  vice  president  re- 
sponsible for  the  company's  worldwide  opera- 
tions in  photographic  materials,  products  for 
the  electronics  industry,  and  instruments, 
mostly  for  the  health  care  and  research  fields. 
He  is  on  the  national  board  of  directors  of 
Junior  Achievement. 


Stanley  Morris  continues  as  director  of 
engineering  at  Columbus  Coated  Fabrics,  a 
division  of  Borden  Chemical,  in  Columbus, 
Ohio.  He  and  Gail  have  six  children  and 
three  grandchildren. 

Wah  MuUer  has  completed  32  years  with 
the  Chevrolet  Division  of  General  Motors 
Corporation.  During  those  years  he  has  lived 
in  many  areas  of  the  coimtry,  including  To- 
ledo, Ohio;  Massena,  N.Y.;  and,  Detroit, 
Mich.  Currently,  he  is  at  the  Chevrolet  Cen- 
tral Office,  where  in  1977  he  was  promoted 
to  regional  plant  manager.  He  is  responsible 
for  the  operation  of  five  plants  located  in 
Michigan,  Ohio,  and  Indiana.  The  plants 
assemble  trucks,  manufacture  axles,  and 
produce  manual  and  automatic  transmis- 
sions. Muller  and  his  wife  enjoy  traveling, 
especially  overseas. 

Donald  Nichols  has  retired  as  associate 
technical  director,  Naval  Underwater  Systems 
Center,  and  has  moved  to  Oxford,  Me.  He  is 
a  free-lance  consultant  in  management  and 
engineering,  and  part-time  lecturer  at  Mohe- 
gan  Commtmity  College,  Norwich,  Conn. 
Old  house  restoration,  woodworking,  garden- 
ing, and  nmning  are  among  his  pastimes. 

Edmund  Oshetsky  was  recently  pro- 
moted to  senior  vice  president  of  operations 
at  Erving  Paper  Mills,  Erving,  Mass.  He  will 
continue  to  serve  as  a  member  of  the  execu- 
tive committee.  He  joined  the  firm  in  1977  as 
general  manager  of  the  Manufacturing  Divi- 
sion. Previously,  he  had  held  a  variety  of 
posts  with  Lincoln  Pulp  &l  Paper,  Boise  Cas- 
cade, and  Scott  Paper.  In  1978,  he  was  pro- 
moted to  the  new  post  of  vice  president  of 
operations  and  was  appointed  to  the  Erving 
executive  committee.  The  Oshetskys  and 
daughter,  Ellen,  reside  in  Greenfield.  Erving  is 
a  leading  manufacturer  and  converter  of  paper 
products,  including  napkins,  towels,  printed 
specialties,  health  care  products,  and  pack- 
aged industrial  papers.  It  maintains  operating 
facilities  in  eight  states. 

Norman  Padden  serves  as  eastern  re- 
gional marketing  manager  for  Singer-Kearfott, 
Little  Falls,  N.J.  He  is  involved  with  aircraft 
navigation  systems,  communications,  and 
computers. 

Julius  Palley  continues  with  the  family 
business.  Commonwealth  Stationers,  in 
Worcester  (Fuller  Office  Furniture  in  Con- 
necticut). Also,  Commonwealth  Manage- 
ment acquires  old  industrial  buildings  for 
redevelopment.  "Trade  association  and  WPI 
functions  are  about  my  only  extras.  We  have 
acquired  several  acres  of  marsh  and  riverside 
areas  in  Centerville  on  Cape  Cod.  Cultivating 
and  restoring  this  beautiful  area  has  brought 
us  back  to  days  of  the  good  healthy  outdoor 
life  and  it's  a  great  homing  area  for  our 
family." 

Thomas  Passanisi  holds  the  position  of 
principal  engineer  for  Raytheon  in  Wayland, 
Mass.  For  the  past  16  years,  he  has  been  in- 
volved with  facilities:  reviewing  construction 
plans  and  specs  and  monitoring  construction. 
Cabinet-making  is  one  of  his  hobbies. 


Carl  Pritchett,  Jr.  continues  as  president 
of  his  Ford  dealership  in  Albany,  Ga.  He  likes 
tennis  and  model  ship  construction. 

Dick  Propst  is  vice  president  of  market- 
ing for  Maydwell  &.  Hartzell  in  Brisbane, 
Calif.  The  firm  sells  electric  power  equip- 
ment to  utilities.  The  Propsts  like  to  travel, 
but  also  find  their  home  area  25  miles  south 
of  San  Francisco  "fantastic." 

Melvin  Rabinovitz  holds  the  position  of 
president  of  Chelsea  Bottle  Co.,  Inc.,  Waban, 
Mass.  The  company  distributes  plastic  and 
glass  containers. 

Allan  Raymond  is  now  employed  as  an 
environmental  engineer  by  the  South  Caro- 
lina Department  of  Health  and  Environmen- 
tal Control.  He  is  singles  champ  of  "B"  Club 
tennis  at  Coldstream  Country  Club. 

Daniel  Rice  serves  as  marketing  manager 
for  Advanced  Electronic  Warfare  Programs  at 
Westinghouse.  He  is  located  in  Columbia, 
Md.,  and  says  he  belongs  to  the  Association 
of  Old  Crows. 

Charlie  Richardson  was  slated  to  present 
a  talk  at  the  national  conference  of  the  Read- 
ing Reform  Foundation  in  Houston  in 
August.  In  January,  he  had  an  article 
published  in  the  "Journal  of  Leaming  Disabil- 
ities." In  1970,  he  started  his  own  business  as 
a  franchisee  of  Learning  Foundations  Intema- 
tional.  Charlie,  who  is  located  in  Huntington 
Station,  N.Y.,  has  a  patent  on  a  self-bagging 
attachment  for  lawnmowers,  which  accumu- 
lates leaves  and  cuttings  directly  in  a  dispos- 
able plastic  trash  bag.  ("Still  looking  for 
means  of  manufacturing  and  marketing.") 

Ten  years  ago,  Donald  Soorian  left  indus- 
try. Currently,  he  teaches  full  time  at 
Wentworth  Institute  of  Technology,  where  he 
is  a  full  professor.  His  courses  include 
Control  Systems,  Transistor  Circuits,  Applied 
Field  Theory,  Linear  Circuits,  and  Active  Fil- 
ter Design.  For  the  past  18  years  he  has  been 
building  a  cottage  (weekends)  in  the  Buz- 
zard's Bay  area. 

James  Sullivan  is  vice  president  of  In- 
ryco,  Inc.,  Milwaukee,  Wise,  a  wholly- 
owned  subsidiary  of  Inland  Steel  Company. 
He  is  a  member  of  the  board  of  directors  at 
Inryco.  Also,  he  is  chairman  of  the  Metal 
Building  Manufacturers  Association,  which 
he  also  serves  on  the  executive  committee. 

E.  G.  Tamulevich  is  retired  and  living  in 
Paxton,  Mass.  Irving  Versoy  is  the  owner- 
president  of  Faire  Harbour,  Ltd.,  a  company 
which  he  foimded.  He  is  located  in  Scituate, 
Mass.  Among  his  hobbies  are  orchid  growing, 
antique  restoration,  and  clock  building. 

Del  Wahon,  of  D.  E.  Walton  Co.,  is  a 
self-employed  manufacturer's  representative. 
This  year  he  visited  Africa,  again,  the  perfect 
locale  for  one  who  enjoys  photographing  wild 
animals  and  insects,  and  studying  their  char- 
acteristics. M.  J.  Waclawek  serves  as  director 
of  engineering  at  B&M  Automotive  Products 
in  Chatsworth,  Calif.  He  and  Marcella  reside 
in  Thousand  Oaks. 


The  WPIfoumal  /  Fall  1981  /  17 


lack  Wexler  is  manager  of  public  affairs 
at  ESSO  Eastern  Inc.,  Houston,  Texas.  Frank 
Wotton  continues  with  White-Westinghouse 
Corp.  He  belongs  to  the  Wilbraham  (Mass.) 
Tennis  Club  and  the  Holyoke  Canoe  Club. 
Thomas  Zajac,  chief  of  materials  and  struc- 
tural integrity  at  Hamilton  Standard /UTC, 
believes  that  he  must  have  the  longest  title  in 
the  division.  The  company  is  involved  with 
propellers  and  various  aircraft  components 
and  systems,  in  space  from  the  limar  program 
to  the  current  shuttle.  This  year  he  expects  to 
see  their  first  250-ft.  diameter  all  glass 
filament-woimd  wind  turbine  blades  generat- 
ing electricity  in  Sweden. 


1947 


Russell  Smith  attended  the  annual  meeting  of 
the  International  Electrotechnical  Commis- 
sion in  Montreux,  Switzerland  in  Jime.  Russ 
is  the  U.S.  delegate  to  the  committee  on  elec- 
tric traction.  He  currently  is  manager  of  ad- 
vanced locomotive  systems  engineering  for 
GE  in  Erie,  Pa.  Skiing  and  sailing  are  his  two 
avocations.  He  lives  with  his  wife,  Allene,  in 
Nonh  East  Pa.  His  daughters,  Penny  and 
Tracy,  are  both  married. 


1948 


Paul  Evans  was  recently  elected  as  new  direc- 
tor and  chairman  for  Region  I  of  the 
American  Society  of  Heating,  Refrigeration 
and  Air  Conditioning  Engineers  for  a  one-year 
term.  (Region  I  includes  New  England,  New 
York  State,  and  Northern  New  Jersey.)  A 
member  of  the  Society  since  1970,  Evans  has 
served  in  various  offices  for  the  Western  Mas- 
sachusetts Chapter,  including  president.  Na- 
tionally, he  was  chairman  for  the  Research 
Promotion  Committee  and  a  member  of  the 
Long  Range  Planning  Committee.  A  regis- 
tered professional  engineer  in  Massachusetts, 
he  serves  as  vice  president  for  Hammill- 
McCormick  Associates,  Inc.,  in  Springfield, 
Mass 

Edward  Wainshilbaum  is  manager  of  the 
equipment  design  department  in  the  RF  Sys- 
tems Lab.  at  Hughes  Aircraft  Co.,  Los 
Angeles. 


1949 


Dean  Amidon  has  resigned  as  commissioner 
of  the  Depanment  of  Public  Works  in  Massa- 
chusetts. He  plans  to  return  to  his  former  po- 
sition as  district  highway  engineer  in  western 
Massachusetts  near  his  home  town  of  Monte- 
rey. Recently  he  was  elected  vice  president  of 
the  Northeast  Association  of  State  Highway 
and  Transportation  Officials  (NASHTO)  for 
1982.  NASHTO  is  the  regional  representative 
of  the  American  Association  of  State  High- 
way Transportation  Officials.  Amidon,  a  32- 
year  career  employee  with  the  Mass.  DPW, 
received  the  American  Public  Works  Associa- 
tion Award  as  one  of  the  country's  top  ten 
public  works  leaders  last  year. 


1950 


Carl  Davis  has  retired  as  a  psychologist  from 
Perkins  School  for  the  Blind  in  Watertovm, 
Mass.  He  writes:  "Recent  publication  - 
Perkins-Binet  Tests  of  Intelligence  for  the 
Blind."  The  Davises  now  reside  in  West 
Burke,  Vermont. 


1951 


Thomas  McComiskey  has  been  promoted  to 
division  general  manager  of  the  Buffalo  Tank 
Division  in  Bethlehem  Steel  Corporation's 
steel  operations  department,  Bethlehem,  Pa. 
Following  his  graduation  from  WPI,  he  joined 
the  firm  as  a  field  engineer  in  the  former  fab- 
ricated steel  construction  division.  In  1953, 
he  received  a  military  leave  of  absence  to 
serve  in  the  U.S.  Army,  from  which  he  was 
discharged  in  1955  as  a  staff  sergeant.  After 
serving  as  a  field  engineer  for  Bethlehem  in 
Pottstown,  Pa.,  McComiskey  held  various 
engineering  and  management  positions  with 
the  fabricated  steel  construction  division  in 
Chicago,  San  Francisco,  and  Los  Angeles,  as 
well  as  in  Bethlehem.  In  1976,  he  joined  the 
corporation's  Buffalo  Tank  Division,  subse- 
quently holding  sales  and  management  posi- 
tions in  Chicago,  Towson,  Dunellen,  N.f., 
and  in  Buffalo,  N.Y. 


1953 


George  Abdow  has  opened  a  new  Abdow's 
Big  Boy  Restaurant  in  Westboro,  Mass.,  the 
twelfth  in  the  chain  owned  by  him  and  his 
brother,  Ronald.  The  brothers  also  own  the 
Ivanhoe  Restaurant  in  Springfield,  Mass. 

Walter  Levine  was  the  author  of  "New 
Developments  in  Spray  Nozzles  .  .  .  The  038 
Story",  which  appeared  in  the  May-June  issue 
of  Die  Casting  Engineer.  Presently,  he  is  man- 
ager of  spray  products  for  Acheson  Colloids. 
Previously,  he  worked  as  a  research  engineer 
for  Worthington  Corp.  and  as  project  engineer 
for  Edwards  Co.  before  switching  to  market- 
ing with  Dresser  Industries,  and  then  to  Con- 
solidated Controls.  Before  joining  Acheson  in 
1979,  he  moved  to  Port  Huron  as  engineering 
manager  for  Bindicator  Co. 


1954 


W.  Richard  Byrnes  has  founded  a  company 
called  Chemex,  Inc.,  located  in  Wayne,  Pa. 
The  company  buys  and  resells  products,  pri- 
marily in  the  plastics  industries,  and  offers 
materials  worldwide. 

Richard  Scott  holds  the  post  of  senior 
lead  estimator  at  Mellon-Stuart  Co.,  Pitts- 
burgh, Pa.  He  previously  obtained  a  state  of 
Rhode  Island  professional  engineer's  license. 


1955 


Since  graduation,  Dave  Bagley  has  been  in- 
volved in  control  engineering.  In  1971,  he 
joined  New  England  Controls,  hi  addition  to 
specific  account  responsibilities,  he  is  power 
systems  application  specialist  for  the  finn.  He 
is  concerned  mostly  with  the  Boston  area  and 
northern  Massachusetts. 

Richard  Sieron,  vice  president  of  R&D 
at  Dual-Lite,  Inc.,  Newton,  Conn.,  v^Tote 
'Improve  Emergency  Light  Design  With 
Lumens/Sq.  Ft.  Method",  which  appeared  in 
the  May  issue  of  Specifying  Engineer.  A 
member  of  the  Illuminating  Engineering  Soci- 
ety, Sieron  has  considerable  experience  in  au- 
dio and  power  engineering  and  is  a  frequent 
lecturer  on  a  variety  of  lighting  subjects.  Pre- 
viously, he  was  Dual-Lite's  chief  engineer. 


1952 


Paul  O'Neil  is  presently  plant  manager  for 
du  Pont-Berg  Electronics,  in  New  Cumber- 
land, Pa. 


18  /  FaU  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


1956 


Currently,  Alan  Adamson  manages  the  New 
York  Power  Pool  planning  staff,  which  plans 
generation  and  transmission  facilities  for  the 
next  15-year  period.  Before  joining  NYPP  ten 
years  ago,  he  worked  with  the  Long  Island 
Lighting  Co.  Besides  managing  Little  League 
teams,  he  has  been  involved  with  the  YMCA 
Indian  Guides. 

loseph  Alekshun,  Jr.  is  a  graduate  student 
in  the  School  of  Engineering  and  Applied  Sci- 
ence at  the  University  of  California  in  Los 
Angeles.  During  his  career,  he  has  served  as  a 
patent  attorney  for  Instrumentation  (Draper) 
Laboratories  and  as  a  consultant  in  environ- 
mental areas.  In  1978,  he  returned  to  elec- 
tronics, joining  Litton  Industries  in  Calfomia. 

Robert  Allen  is  the  president-owner  of 
Robert  S.  Allen  Associates,  Inc.,  Wichita, 
Kansas.  The  company  does  professional  de- 
sign engineering  for  the  refining,  chemical, 
petrochemical  industry.  He  holds  several  pat- 
ents and  is  listed  in  Who's  Who  in  Engineer- 
ing. 

Christian  Baehiecke  holds  the  post  of 
president  of  the  R.  L.  Whipple  Co.,  Inc., 
Worcester.  He  was  project  manager  of  the  AIA 
award  winning  projects  at  Shepherd  Knapp 
School,  Boylston,  in  1972  and  at  Mechanics 
Hall,  Worcester  in  1979.  He  specializes  in  res- 
toration work  and  in  design/build  projects. 
Active  in  Paxton  community  affairs,  he  also 
has  served  on  United  Way  and  church  com- 
mittees. 

David  Becker  is  program  manager  for 
the  GTE  Sylvania  Systems  Group,  Commu- 
nications Systems  Division,  in  Needham, 
Mass.  With  Sylvania,  since  1959,  he  also  did 
some  consulting  work  for  four  years  for 
Sanders  Associates.  He  has  a  PhD  in  solid 
state  physics  from  MIT.  His  work  has  in- 
cluded space  cabin  design  and  much  simula- 
tion. He  has  served  as  chairman  of  the  youth 
committee  at  his  temple  and  on  the  local 
BSA  troop  committee. 

Ernest  Bernstein  is  engineering  manager 
for  the  United  Technologies  Power  Systems 
Division  in  Farmington,  Conn.  After  gradua- 
tion, he  joined  UAC  and  did  nuclear  applica- 
tions research  for  a  space  vehicle.  He 
obtained  a  patent  for  a  once  through  potas- 
sium boiler.  Later,  he  was  involved  with  gas 
turbines  in  land-based  applications.  'Tlying 
has  really  become  a  thing  with  me."  He  re- 
ceived his  license  a  couple  of  years  ago  and  is 
now  working  on  his  instrument  ticket. 

Laurence  Blomstrom  continues  as  man- 
ager of  environmental  engineering  of  the 
General  Electric  Space  Division  in  Philadel- 
phia. He  holds  an  MSME  from  the  University 
of  Southern  California,  and  enjoys  golf,  spec- 
tator sports,  and  community  affairs. 


Howard  Brown  holds  the  position  of 
Dean  of  the  School  of  Business  at  Ithaca  Col- 
lege, Ithaca,  N.Y.  Previously,  he  taught  and 
chaired  the  Management  Department  at 
Southeastern  Massachusetts  University  for 
five  years.  He  is  rebuilding  a  three  manual 
Mason  and  Hamlin  reed  organ  at  home. 

John  Bums  has  spent  25  years  with  Shell 
U.S.A.:  12  years  with  Shell  Oil  Company  in 
marketing  and  13  years  in  Shell  Chemical  in 
marketing  and  sales  management.  For  the 
past  four  years,  he  has  been  manager  of  Shell 
Chemical's  Eastern  Region  in  West  Orange, 
N.J.  He  is  active  in  the  Drug,  Chemical  &  Al- 
lied Trades  Association  of  New  York  and  the 
National  Paint  &.  Coatings  Association. 

Clifford  Burwick  is  vice  president  of  au- 
tomation planning  for  Bank  of  America  in 
San  Francisco.  Earlier,  he  was  with  IBM, 
Space  General  Corp.,  and  Shell  Oil  Co.  Out- 
side interests  are  backpacking,  running, 
tennis,  investments,  and  real  estate. 

William  Casey,  an  employee  of  the 
Badger  Co.  for  18  years,  is  now  assistant  to 
the  vice  president  of  European  &.  Middle  East 
Operations  in  Cambridge.  He  has  managed 
several  projects  for  engineering,  procurement, 
and  construction  of  petroleum  and  petro- 
chemical projects.  A  member  of  the  Concord 
Band  Association,  he  plays  the  baritone  horn. 

Ted  Coghlin,  Jr.,  chairman  of  the  25th  re- 
union committee,  was  named  as  a  recipient 
of  the  Herbert  F.  Taylor  Award  in  Jime.  (The 
Class  of  '56  had  the  largest  attendance  for  a 
25th  reimion  to  date  at  WPI.)  Ted  has  been 
with  Coghlin's,  Inc.,  Worcester,  the  family 
business  since  graduation,  and  now  serves  as 
president.  During  the  years,  he  has  been  pres- 
ident of  Shepherd  Engineering  and  Fred  Wal- 
ters Commimications  Company,  both  of 
which  are  now  sold.  Long  associated  with  the 
BSA,  he  has  served  as  Coimcil  president,  and 
has  been  involved  with  Boys'  Club  work.  He 
was  president  of  the  Worcester  Coimty 
Alumni  and  the  Poly  Club,  as  well  as  the 
Young  Businessman's  Association.  He  is  the 
current  president  of  the  Worcester  Engineer- 
ing Society,  director  of  the  Mechanics  Bank  of 
Worcester,  and  a  corporator  of  the  Worcester 
Science  Museum.  Among  his  awards  are  the 
Outstanding  Young  Man  Award  from  the  Jun- 
ior Chamber  of  Commerce;  the  Silver  Beaver 
and  St.  George  Medal  from  the  BSA;  and  the 
Honor  Service  Medal  from  the  Boys  Club. 

"An  on-going  hobby  is  our  house,  which 
we  built  in  1968  and  are  still  finishing," 
writes  Chris  Collins,  who  resides  in  Arnold, 
Md.  He  is  a  fellow  engineer  for  Westinghouse 
Oceanic  Division  in  Annapolis,  and  was  re- 
sponsible for  sonars  on  the  Navy  MK  27  tar- 
get torpedo.  Besides  coaching  soccer,  he  is 
currently  on  the  board  of  directors  of  the 
Greater  Arnold  Recreation  Association.  He 
and  his  family  live  on  Chesapeake  Bay  and 
enjoy  sailing,  crabbing,  and  crewing  in  races. 

For  the  past  ten  years,  James  Colton  has 
been  a  maintenance  mechanic  at  Phillips  Exe- 
ter Academy,  Exeter,  N.H.  Previously,  he  was 
with  the  U.S.  Army  in  Korea,  and  two  years 
in  the  Peace  Corps  in  India.  Among  his  out- 
side interests  are  ballet,  baroque  music, 
snowshoeing,  and  motorcycling. 


Bemie  Danti  writes  he  is  "king"  of 
Bernard  R.  Danti,  Inc.,  Bedford,  Mass.  The 
company  is  involved  with  product  and  ma- 
chinery development.  "Still  searching  for  the 
perfect  wave."  Earlier,  he  was  with  Millipore, 
Polaroid,  and  Pneumatic  Scale.  Son,  Greg,  19, 
is  studying  mechanical  engineering  at  WPI. 

Robert  Delahunt  continues  as  corporate 
vice  president  at  Polaroid  Corp.,  Waltham, 
Mass.  He  and  his  wife,  Jean,  have  two  daugh- 
ters: Caren,  18,  and  Susie,  14;  and  a  son, 
Bob,  17. 

Robert  Diamond  is  president  and  owner 
of  Robert  Diamond,  Inc.,  an  electronic  sales 
company  in  Bayside,  N.Y.  The  family  has  a 
home  at  Stratton  Moimtain  in  Vermont  and 
enjoys  skiing  and  tennis. 

Distance  skating  and  photography  are 
among  the  hobbies  of  Henry  Dumas,  Jr.,  He 
serves  as  vice  president  of  sales  at  General 
Scanning,  Inc.,  Watertown,  Mass.,  where  he 
is  responsible  for  the  sale  of  precision  electro- 
mechanical and  electro-optical  systems  de- 
sign. He  is  a  full  member  of  Sigma  Xi. 

After  sixteen  years  with  Polaroid,  Gerald 
Dyer  is  now  involved  in  the  firm's  chemical 
marketing  activity  as  part  of  Polaroid's  diver- 
sification activities.  He  is  programs  manager 
of  the  Chemicals  Division.  Previously,  he 
was  with  National  Starch  for  ten  years.  Out- 
side interests  include  tree  farming,  wood 
burning  stove,  and  solar  energy.  His  daughter, 
Cindy,  graduated  from  WPI  in  biochemistry 
in  1980. 

Robert  Edsall  writes  that  he  and  his  wife, 
Barbara,  have  two  "homemade"  children  and 
five  adopted  children  of  various  racial  back- 
grounds. They  live  in  Perkiomenville,  Pa. 
"on  five  acres  in  the  woods  giving  lots  of 
room  for  our  children,  four  dogs,  four  cats, 
and  two  goats."  Currently,  he  is  a  supervising 
engineer  engaged  in  related  studies  for  ballis- 
tic missile  defense  for  GE  in  Philadelphia. 

Norman  Fischer,  a  project  superintendent 
for  Turner  Construction  Company,  is  now 
building  a  $38.5  million  hospital  in  Brooklyn, 
N.Y.  for  the  firm.  He  plays  and  teaches  the 
trumpet  and  is  director  of  church  music  min- 
istry when  at  home  in  Tennessee. 

Robert  Foisie  holds  the  position  of  presi- 
dent at  Matik  North  America,  West  Hartford, 
Conn.  He  formerly  was  with  Technical  Tape, 
Inc.,  Smyth  Manufacturing  Co.,  John  Marsh 
Co.,  and  United  Technologies.  For  a  number 
of  years  he  was  associated  with  the  West 
Hartford  Boys  Football  League. 

Arthur  Freedberg  is  executive  vice 
president  of  Newman  Data  Services  in 
Wayne,  N.J. 

For  the  past  four  years,  Mike  Gordon 
has  served  as  director  of  marketing  at  The 
Singer  Co.-Kearfott  Division,  Little  Falls, 
N.J.  He  says,  "This  is  a  high  technology  in- 
dustry dealing  in  guidance,  navigation,  and 
control  systems  for  aircraft,  space,  surface 
and  missile  systems.  Essentially  government 
contracts." 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Fall  1981/19 


Charles  Gunn  has  worked  for  United  II- 
luminating  Co.,  New  Haven,  Conn,  since 
graduation,  except  for  four  years  at  RPI  where 
he  was  an  instructor  and  obtained  his  MSEE. 
Currently,  he  is  senior  test  engineer  for  the 
electric  utility,  his  duties  including  revenue 
metering  and  testing  of  equipment.  He  is  a 
member  of  the  Planning  and  Zoning  Com- 
mission in  Nonh  Branford,  which  he  has 
served  as  Town  Cotmcil  member  and  mayor. 
Hobbies  include  fumittire  making  and  re- 
storing his  '34  Ford  sedan. 

Richard  Hajec  writes:  "My  entire  career 
has  been  devoted  to  moving  air  and  gases." 
He's  been  involved  in  designing,  building, 
selling,  and  planning  fans,  compressors,  and 
exhausters  of  all  sizes  and  shapes.  He  likes 
golf,  skiing,  hiking,  sailing  and  plain  walking. 

Still  a  senior  search  specialist  for  Man- 
agement Recruiters,  Inc.,  Arnold  Hall  also 
performs  engineering  consulting  and  manages 
his  own  yacht  brokerage,  "Seacure,"  part 
time.  Earlier  in  his  career,  he  was  with  Elec- 
tric Boat  Division,  Groton,  Coim.,  where  he 
was  technical  director  in  a  Navy  surface  effect 
ship  configuration  development  program.  He 
helped  form  Hovermarine  Transport  Ltd.,  an 
international  shipbuilding  company.  He  sings 
bass  in  a  chorus  and  choir,  likes  carpentry, 
and  is  a  member  of  the  Watch  Hill  Yacht 
Club. 

Allan  Hamilton,  Jr.  has  been  with  West- 
em  Electric  since  1956.  He  is  now  depart- 
ment chief  of  plant  and  facilities  planning 
engineering  for  the  company  in  Richmond, 
Va.  He  says  of  his  early  career,  "After  my 
stint  in  development,  I  found  that  trenches 
were  much  more  to  my  liking  and  I  am  now 
responsible  for  the  latest  expansion  at  our 
Richmond  works."  During  the  last  eleven 
yeara,  he  has  been  associated  with  the  manu- 
facture of  printed  circuitry.  He  holds  a  certifi- 
cate of  completion  of  the  half-marathon  from 
the  1980  Richmond  Newspapers  Marathon. 

Charles  Healy  is  active  with  commtmity 
affairs  and  his  church  council.  Since  1978  he 
has  worked  in  the  Philippines,  where  he  is  a 
project  manager  for  Ebasco  Overseas  Corpora- 
tion. For  many  years  he  was  involved  with 
electric  power  generation  and  design  with  the 
U.S.  Army  Corps  of  Engineers.  "Moved  1 1 
times  to  date." 

[ust  before  his  present  assignment,  Rob- 
ert Heath  was  program  manager  of  the  large 
format  camera  built  for  NASA-JSC  to  be  car- 
ried on  the  Space  Shuttle.  One  9"  x  18" 
frame  can  cover  all  of  Massachusetts,  Con- 
necticut, and  Rhode  Island,  and  resolve  every 
house!  Heath,  director  of  aircraft  systems  for 
Itek  Optical  Systems,  Lexington,  Mass.,  is 
now  responsible  for  both  domestic  and  for- 
eign programs,  building  aircraft  cameras  from 
6"  to  72"  focal  length  for  reconnaissance,  sur- 
veillance, and  mapping  He  is  a  numismatist 
and  has  published  catalogs  of  Massachusetts 
and  New  Hampshire  commemorative 
medals. 


Often  busy  with  church  work,  Lawrence 
Horrigan,  Jr.  and  his  wife  also  enjoy  golf. 
"The  Texas  climate  permits  us  to  enjoy  the 
sport  year  'rotmd."  After  graduation  he  went 
with  Ebasco  Services  in  New  York,  where  in- 
side 22  years,  he  rose  to  construction  man- 
ager. He  then  joined  Houston  Lighting  and 
Power  Company  in  the  same  position.  Cur- 
rently, he  is  general  manager  of  the  power 
plant  construction  department. 

John  Hyde  is  a  salesman  for  Avantek  in 
Santa  Clara,  Calif.,  doing  sales  and  marketing 
for  high  technology  companies.  He  also  sails, 
teaches,  and  coimsels. 

John  Jolda  is  director  of  engineering  at 
Geo.  J.  Meyer  Mfg.  Division  in  West  Boyl- 
ston,  Mass.  Before  joining  Meyer  in  1967,  he 
worked  at  Hamilton  Standard  in  Connecticut 
for  11  years.  He  teaches  evenings  at  Central 
New  England  College. 

William  Jordan,  Jr.  serves  Synertek,  Santa 
Clara,  Calif.,  as  vice  president.  Pastimes  in- 
clude skiing  and  tennis. 

Kevin  Joyce  is  a  partner  in  Cushman, 
Darby,  &.  Cushman  in  Washington,  D.C.  He 
is  a  patent,  trademark,  and  unfair  competi- 
tion practitioner.  Ice  hockey,  horses,  and 
farming  are  among  his  outside  interests.  The 
Joyces  reside  in  Davidsonville,  Md. 

Gardening  and  raising  livestock  (hogs, 
chickens,  steer]  are  pastimes  of  William 
Knoblock,  who  has  a  coimtry  home  near 
Bowling  Green,  Ohio.  He  is  project  engineer 
at  Cambpell  Soup  Co.,  Napoleon.  At  the 
present  time,  he  is  number  2  man  in  the  engi- 
neering department  at  the  largest  of  the 
Campbell  soup  plants,  which  has  2300  em- 
ployees. 

Hans  Koehl  serves  as  trustee  of  the  Con- 
necticut Public  ExpenditLU'e  Cotmcil;  director 
of  Connecticut  Business  and  Industry  Associ- 
ation; and  director  of  Danielson  Federal  Sav- 
ings &  Loan  Association.  He  is  chairman  of 
Spirol  International  Corporation,  Danielson, 
Conn.,  where  he  has  been  employed  since 
graduating  from  law  school  in  1959. 

Alan  Larsson,  who  has  been  20  years  at 
Raytheon,  Waltham,  Mass.,  is  now  depart- 
ment manager  of  the  airborne  department 
in  EEG,  Power  Tube  Division.  Wife  Dorothy 
is  a  member  of  the  technical  staff  at  Mitre. 
"We  divide  our  time  between  Sudbury  and 
our  vacation  home  in  Moultonboro,  N.H." 
This  year,  he  is  commodore  of  their  sailing 
association. 

Last  year,  Donald  Lathrop  went  on  a 
three-week  tour  of  Soviet  cities  and  met  with 
five  Soviet  Peace  Committees.  Since  his  re- 
turn, he  has  had  extensive  speaking  engage- 
ments. He  is  professor  of  philosophy  and 
peace  studies  at  Berkshire  Commtmity  Col- 
lege, Pittsfield,  Mass. 

William  Lloyd  has  been  with  Bethlehem 
Steel  in  Johnstown,  Pa.  since  1956.  Today  he 
is  mechanical  foreman  in  the  coke  depart- 
ment. "The  flood  of  1977  wiped  out  80%  of 
our  coke  operation."  The  plant  is  now  install- 
ing an  electric  steelmaking  facility  which  will 
eliminate  the  coke  department,  the  blast  fur- 
naces, and  the  open  hearth  department. 


Fred  Lohrey  writes  that  he  is  conducting 
a  life-long  experiment  to  see  how  long  some- 
one can  play  golf  without  getting  any  better 
at  it.  For  22  years,  he  has  been  with  IBM  near 
Poughkeepsie,  N.Y.  and  is  now  advisory  engi- 
neer. He  does  circuit  and  semiconductor  logic 
chip  design. 

Vilho  Lucander,  a  registered  professional 
engineer,  is  supervisor  of  results  engineering 
at  New  England  Power  Co.,  Westboro,  Mass. 
Formerly  he  taught  math  in  the  Worcester 
Jtmior  College  evening  division.  He  is  active 
with  the  Masons,  the  Shrine,  and  town  and 
church  affairs. 

Louis  Marsella  holds  the  post  of  senior 
vice  president  at  Guardian  Packaging  Corp., 
Newark,  Calif.  He  is  concerned  with  flexible 
packaging  R&D,  manufacturing,  and  general 
management.  In  his  leisure  time,  he  enjoys 
flying. 

Robert  Matchett  is  president  of  Fibre- 
dyne,  Inc.,  Dover,  N.H.  The  filter  cartridges 
produced  by  his  company  are  sold  to  OEM's 
and  stocking  distributors  for  both  residential 
and  electroplating  applications,  usually  on  a 
private  label  basis.  New  construction  is  imder 
way  to  double  Fibredyne's  capacity.  Previ- 
ously, while  with  Hammermill  Paper,  Mat- 
chett developed  a  process  (at  home)  for 
wet-molding  activated  carbon  filter  cartridges 
and  in  1972  incorporated  Fibredyne  to 
produce  the  units.  When  he  finds  the  time, 
he  likes  to  golf,  fish,  and  cross-county  ski. 

"Carpenter's  elbow  is  much  worse  than 
tennis  elbow,"  says  Richard  McBride,  who  is 
into  house  renovation  and  tennis,  as  well  as 
competitive  swimming.  With  Communica- 
tions Satellite  Corp.,  Washington,  D.C,  for 
16  years,  he  is  glad  that  his  new  assignment 
as  director  of  project  management  will  keep 
him  more  or  less  desk  botmd  for  the  near  fu- 
ture. "No  longer  travel  all  over  the  world. 
Thank  goodness!" 

At  present,  John  McHugh  is  the  owner 
and  president  of  Royal  Screw  Machine  and 
Waterbttry  Carbide  Tool  in  Waterbury,  Conn. 
Earlier,  he  had  been  a  test  engineer  at  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft  for  five  years.  He  is  past 
president  of  Smaller  Mfgs.  Business  Associa- 
tion and  Exchange  Club  of  Waterbtiry.  He  re- 
ceived the  Outstanding  President's  Award  for 
the  Exchange  Club  in  1976. 

Joseph  Morgan,  Jr.  serves  as  senior  mis- 
sile dynamics  engineer  at  Raytheon  in  Bed- 
ford, Mass.  Weapons  systems  experience 
includes  the  Spartow,  Hawk,  and  Sidewinder, 
missiles  and  the  F-18  fighter  aircraft.  He 
heads  Pyramid  Coins,  a  part-time  Egyptian 
coins  business,  which  he  plans  to  go  into  full 
time  after  retirement.  "The  most  complete 
inventory  of  minor  milliemes  and  piastres 
this  side  of  the  pyramids." 


20  /  fail  198}  /  The  WPI  Journal 


Since  1959,  Henry  Nowick  has  worked 
for  Monsanto  in  various  assignments  in  man- 
ufacturing and  technology.  Currently,  he  is  a 
senior  specialist  for  the  firm  in  Indian  Or- 
chard, Mass,  He  has  traveled  extensively 
throughout  the  world,  and  entered  into  some 
technical  negotiations  in  Russia.  At  the 
present  time,  he  is  hazardous  waste  coordina- 
tor and  the  Associated  Industries  of  Massa- 
chusetts representative  on  the  Massachusetts 
Hazardous  Waste  Facility  Safety  Siting  Coim- 
cil.  Recently  Nowick  studied  environmental 
engineering  at  Berkeley  on  a  Monsanto  tech- 
nical academic  assignment.  During  the  fam- 
ily's year  in  Fremont,  Calif.,  they  visited  a 
nvmiber  of  WPI  alumni  and  enjoyed  a  variety 
of  side  trips. 

Joseph  Paparella  serves  as  general  man- 
ager of  Latin  American  Operations  for  the 
Foxboro  Company,  Foxboro,  Mass.  He  joined 
Foxboro  in  1963,  and  started  12  new  overseas 
operations  for  the  company,  traveling  over 
two  million  miles.  His  present  operation  has 
factories  in  Mexico,  Brazil,  and  Argentina. 

Bruce  Paul  is  director  of  plant  engiiieer- 
ing  and  energy  specialist  for  the  USM  Ma- 
chinery Group-Emhart  Corp.,  Beverly,  Mass. 
He  has  served  on  the  boards  of  the  Beverly 
Area  YMCA  and  of  the  Merrimac  Valley  Tex- 
tile Museum.  In  Ipswich,  he  has  been  active 
with  the  Energy  Advisory  Commission  and 
the  Industrial  Development  Commission. 

William  Peterson,  an  adjimct  professor  at 
the  College  of  St.  Francis,  is  also  president  of 
William  R  Peterson  &  Associates,  Inc.,  Nar 
perville.  111.  During  his  career,  he  has  been  a 
"slide  rule  pushing"  engineer,-  has  had  a  stint 
in  contract  research  and  development;  and 
another  in  management  consulting.  For  five 
years  he  was  with  the  DOE,  becoming  a  re- 
gional representative  of  the  secretary,  Region 
V.  He  was  named  to  the  White  House 
speakers  program  (energy  and  anti-inflation). 
In  1979,  he  returned  to  his  engineering  and 
management  consulting  practice. 

Continuously  involved  with  church  ac- 
tivities, Robert  Philhower  has  been  a  ruling 
Elder  in  the  Presbyterian  Church,  a  Sunday 
school  teacher,  and  a  chairman  of  several 
committees.  He  was  director  for  the  Newark 
Day  Nursery  and  helped  to  start  a  day  care 
center  in  Wilmington.  Also,  he  has  received 
photography  awards.  A  senior  specialist  engi- 
neer for  du  Pont  in  Wilmington,  Delaware, 
for  the  past  three  years  he  has  been  project 
leader  for  the  Auto-trol  Interactive  Graphic 
System. 

With  Hooker  Chemical,  Niagara  Falls, 
since  1956,  Halbert  Pierce  is  now  manager  of 
energy  conservation.  He  received  the  Scout- 
master's Key  from  the  BSA,  likes  cross- 
country skiing,  and  was  a  former  chairman  of 
the  Industrial  Division  of  the  local  United 
Way 


After  spending  four  years  with  Standard 
Oil  of  Ohio,  Dave  Pratt  joined  L.  H.  Waldrip 
Company,  and  is  still  with  the  firm,  although 
it  is  now  called  M.A.  Blankenburg  &  Co. 
Blankenburg  is  a  manufacturers'  representa- 
tive firm  in  chemical  process  equipment  cov- 
ering northern  Ohio.  Although  Pratt  nms 
some  1500  miles  a  year,  he  says,  "No  interest 
in  marathons." 

James  Prifti  is  a  supervisory  mechanical 
engineer  in  the  Food  Systems,  Equipment  Di- 
vision at  the  U.  S.  Army  Natick  Labs,  in  Mas- 
sachusetts. "We  work  on  improving  the 
methods  and  equipment  used  to  feed  our  mil- 
itary troops."  He  has  an  MSME  from  North- 
eastern University. 

Richard  Rodin  serves  as  chairman  of  the 
science  department  at  Montclair  (N.J.)  High 
School.  He  belongs  to  the  Montclair  Society 
of  Engineers  and  has  invented  an  instruc- 
tional chemistry  game  which  is  marketed  na- 
tionally. The  Rodins  have  three  children. 

Richard  Rotelli  holds  the  position  of  de- 
partment manager  for  Raytheon  in  the  Mis- 
sile Systems  Division,  Bedford,  Mass.  During 
his  career  he  has  been  with  Macalaster  Scien- 
tific Co.,  Metrologic  Instruments,  Inc.,  and  a 
small  company  in  Littleton,  Mass.  He  hopes 
to  MTite  a  book  in  retirement.  "I  am  fasci- 
nated with  the  origins  of  everyday  expres- 
sions with  obscure  beginnings." 

Describing  himself  as  a  "corporate  wan- 
derer" for  du  Pont,  Anthony  Scancella,  now  a 
plant  manager  for  the  firm  in  South  San  Fran- 
cisco, says  that  he  previously  was  headquar- 
tered in  Connecticut,  Tennessee, 
Pennsylvania,  and  New  Jersey. 

The  Rev.  Paul  Schoomnaker  writes  that 
sons  Peter,  '80  and  Stephen,  '84  "have  fol- 
lowed their  father  and  grandfather  to  WPI." 
Recently,  with  some  help  from  his  sons,  he 
built  a  hybrid  electric  car.  Two  years  ago  he 
received  the  "Rosa  O.  Hall  Award"  from  the 
American  Baptist  Churches.  In  1977,  his 
book.  The  Prison  Connection  (Judson  Press) 
was  published.  He  is  pastor  at  the  Royersford 
Baptist  Church  in  Pennsylvania. 

Winslow  Spofford  holds  the  post  of  vice 
president  and  treasurer  at  Wachusett  Engi- 
neering in  Holden,  Mass.  "Have  worked  from 
designing  looms  to  testing  flow  meters  at  Al- 
den  Labs.  Also  built  houses  and  have  been  in- 
volved with  weldments."  He  is  a  registered 
professional  engineer  and  land  surveyor  in 
Massachusetts.  Also,  he  is  a  licensed  firearms 
dealer  and  enjoys  collecting  Civil  War  vintage 
guns. 

George  Strom  continues  as  vice  president 
of  operations  at  Speidel  in  Providence,  R.I.,  a 
position  he  has  held  for  two  years.  Previously, 
he  was  with  Johnson  &  Johnson,  Procter  &. 
Gamble,  and  Honolulu  Iron  Works. 

Recently,  Dr.  Roger  Tancrell  lectured  at 
Harvard  Medical  School.  He  is  principal  sci- 
entist at  Raytheon  Research  Division  in  Wal- 
tham,  Mass.,  has  been  granted  several 
patents,  and  has  published  a  number  of  tech- 
nical papers  and  textbook  chapters.  Some  of 
his  projects  were  surface  acoustic  waves  for 


radar;  medical  electronics;  and  coded  aper- 
tures for  imaging  in  nuclear  medicine.  Early 
in  his  career,  when  he  was  at  MIT  Lincoln 
Labs,  he  worked  on  the  first  transistorized 
computer.  Active  with  the  IEEE,  he  is  on  the 
committee  planning  the  annual  Ultrasonics 
Symposium.  During  his  free  time,  he  teaches 
basic  reading  to  English-speaking  adults  who 
have  low  reading  ability.  He  helped  organize 
and  officially  incorporate  the  all-volunteer 
reading  group. 

"I'm  the  only  guy  I  know  who  has 
worked  for  three  different  companies  without 
changing  jobs,"  writes  Harry  Tenney,  Jr.,  of 
the  WPI  Alumni  Executive  Committee.  Cur- 
rently, he  is  director  of  marketing  for  the 
Polymer  Materials  Division  of  Georgia-Pacific 
in  Newark,  N.J.  Earlier  he  was  with  XCEL 
Corp.  (acquired  by  G-P),  and  Celanese  Plas- 
tics, which  later  became  XCEL  Corp.  He  has 
served  as  chairman  of  the  West  Long  Branch 
Zoning  Board  of  Adjustment;  as  director  of 
the  Shore  Area  YMCA;  and  past  president  of 
the  Northern  New  Jersey  Chapter  of  the  WPI 
Alumni  Association. 

Edward  Wiot  serves  as  coordinator  of  fuel 
cycle  licensing  for  NUS  Corporation  in  Rock- 
ville,  Md.  During  his  career,  he  has  been  a 
consulting  nuclear  reactor  safety  engineer 
specializing  in  nuclear  reactor  safety  and  li- 
censing. Also,  he  has  been  involved  in  other 
aspects  of  the  nuclear  fuel  cycle.  Among  his 
outside  interests  are  singing  with  the 
Oratorio  Society  of  Washington,  D.C.  and 
with  the  Montgomery  County  chapter  of  the 
Barbershop  Harmony  Society.  Wife  Lou  is  a 
member  of  the  Sweet  Adelines. 

Thomas  Wright  continues  as  senior  sys- 
tems engineer  for  IBM  in  Montoursville,  Pa. 
He  spent  over  seven  years  in  management  po- 
sitions with  Western  Union,  "then  switched 
from  Morse  Code  to  computer  code  and  have 
been  in  systems  engineering  with  IBM  ever 
since." 


1957 


After  22  years  of  working  as  an  engineer,  Mi- 
chael Spiegel  decided  to  get  his  PhD  in  order 
to  teach  at  a  university.  He  enrolled  at  West- 
em  Connecticut  State  College  and  is  now  at 
Oregon  State  University  in  Corvallis.  During 
his  engineering  years,  he  also  pursued  a  side- 
line of  raising,  training,  and  showing  horses, 
so  his  new  direction  in  school  is  in  animal 
science  and  more  specifically  genetics  and  re- 
productive physiology.  The  Spiegels  have 
three  children:  Jessica,  9;  Zachary,  6;  and  Ca- 
leb, almost  5. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Fall  1981  /  21 


1958 


C.  Stewart  Gentsch  is  now  division  president 
of  the  Roller  Chain  Division  of  Rexnord,  Inc., 
Springfield,  Mass.  He  first  joined  the  com- 
pany in  1958  as  a  sales  correspondent.  He 
was  factory  manager  of  the  bearing  division 
in  Downers  Grove,  111.  from  197 1  to  1972, 
and  was  promoted  to  operations  manager  of 
the  Roller  Chain  Division  in  1972.  He  be- 
came president  of  the  division  in  1978.  Ear- 
lier, he  attended  the  Carnegie  Mellon 
University  Program  for  Executives. 


1959 


Robert  Berg  has  been  elected  president  and 
chief  executive  officer  of  Wesley  Manufactur- 
ing Company,  Inc.,  Scottdale,  Ga.  Earlier,  he 
had  senior  management  positions  with 
Scovill,  Inc.,  American  Standard  Inc.,  and 
Rexnord,  Inc.  He  holds  an  MBA  from  the 
University  of  Chicago.  Wesley  is  an  intema- 
tional  marketer  and  manufacturer  of  material 
handling  equipment  including  Pallet  Mule, 
Pallet  trucks,  and  the  Crusader  electric 
vehicles. 

Frank  Cohee  holds  the  position  of  direc- 
tor of  quality  assurance  and  management  sys- 
tems at  Eldec  Corp.,  Lynnwood,  WA.  He  has 
an  MBA  from  Harvard. 

Michael  Hertzberg,  president  of  Michael 
A.  Hertzberg  Consulting  Engineers,  Inc., 
Waitsfield,  Vt.,  has  been  appointed  a  director 
of  the  American  Consulting  Engineers  Cotm- 
cil  Research  and  Mangement  Foimdation  in 
Washington,  D.C.  He  will  also  serve  as  a  vice 
president  of  the  Council,  and  will  oversee  re- 
search projects  of  the  Foundation.  Of  particu- 
lar current  interest  is  a  major  national  study 
of  building  regulations.  The  analysis,  which 
is  being  conducted  for  the  National  Institute 
of  Building  Sciences,  Washington,  DC,  will 
document  the  proliferation  of  federal  codes, 
rules,  etc.,  which  affect  the  design  and  con- 
struction of  new  and  renovated  buildings. 
Hcrtzbcrg's  Waitsfield  firm  specializes  in  me- 
chanical, electrical,  alternate  energy  and  en- 
ergy conservation  engineering  services.  A  past 
president  of  ACEC/Vermont,  his  firm  re- 
ceived awards  for  engineering  excellence  from 
the  state  consulting  engineering  organization 
in  197S  for  the  lighting  and  mechanical  engi- 
neering design  of  the  Berlin  branch  of  the 
Howard  Bank,  and  in  1978  for  the  mechani- 
cal engineering  design  of  the  domestic  hot 
water  generation  and  distribution  systems  at 
the  Vermont  State  Hospital  in  Waterbury. 


John  Wolfe  was  recently  named  senior 
vice  president  of  North  American  operations 
for  EG&.G  Sealol,  Inc.  In  his  new  position,  he 
will  be  responsible  for  all  U.S.  operating  divi- 
sions as  well  as  EG&G  Sealol  Canada.  Previ- 
ously, he  was  vice  president  and  general 
manager  of  the  Engineered  Products  Division. 
EG&G  Sealol,  based  in  Warwick,  R.I.,  manu- 
factures and  m.arkets  mechanical  seals,  valves 
and  bellows  devices.  It  has  three  plants  in  the 
U.S.  and  manufacturing  facilities  in  ten  other 
countries. 


i960 


The  William  Bontas  make  their  home  in 
Phoenix,  Md.  Bill  is  with  the  Federal  Bureau 
of  Air  Quality  and  has  recently  seen  his  re- 
sponsibilities expanded  into  other  environ- 
mental areas.  One  of  the  Bontas'  two 
children  is  a  budding  track  star. 

Don  Cloud  of  Guilford,  Conn,  has  sold 
out  his  first  condo  development  and  is  devel- 
oping another. 

Donaldson  Dow  is  a  senior  engineer  at 
AIDE  in  Richmond,  Va.  His  daughter,  Julie, 
who  has  finished  jiuiior  college,  was  married 
in  lime. 

Ken  Halvorsen  serves  as  a  senior  supervi- 
sor with  the  Naval  Ship  Engineering  Center. 
Recently,  he  was  associated  with  the  Cruise 
missile  program.  The  Halvorsens  have  five 
children  and  a  son  in  medical  school. 

Ivan  Kirsch  has  completed  17  years  at 
Analogic  in  Wakefield,  Mass.  His  son,  Robert, 
just  graduated  from  MIT  and  is  going  to  the 
UMass  Medical  School.  His  middle  daughter, 
Ellen,  is  a  junior  at  Framingham  State.  His 
yoimger  son,  Stuart,  is  a  sophomore  at 
Harvard. 

Dick  Kischell  is  responsible  for  radio  and 
TV  transmission  engineering  for  Southern 
New  England  Telephone. 

Pete  Lajoie  holds  the  position  of  national 
sales  manager  for  Disc  Instruments,  a  firm 
specializing  in  optical  encoders  for  the  OEM 
market.  He  travels  a  great  deal  while  building 
a  national  sales  force  for  the  fast  growing 
business.  The  Lajoies  arc  located  in  Mission 
Viejo,  Calif. 

David  Westling  serves  as  a  sales  repre- 
sentative at  National  Standard  Co.  in  Santa 
Fe  Springs,  Calif. 


I96I 


Hank  Allessio  continues  as  supervisor  in  the 
New  York  office  of  Hayes/Hill,  Inc.  The  firm 
provides  corporate  long-range  strategy,  mar- 
keting and  new  product  development,  acqui- 
sition planning,  and  executive  compensation. 
Automotive  components  have  been  a  'pel.'" 


His  various  assignments  have  taken  him 
around  the  world,  and  Forbes,  Business 
Week,  and  the  Wall  Street  Journal  have  used 
quotes  from  several  of  his  speeches.  About 
twice  a  year  Hank  and  his  family  get  together 
with  several  other  WPI  alums  and  their  fami- 
lies for  an  informal  reunion. 

Last  year.  Bob  Beaudry  was  named  direc- 
tor of  the  design  office  for  the  Federal  High- 
way Administration,  Delmar,  N.Y.  Leisure 
time  activities  include  skiing,  biking,  wood- 
craft, the  theater,  and  travel. 

William  Calder  ID,  manager  of  corporate 
quality  assurance  at  the  Foxboro  Company,  is 
the  vice  president-elect  of  the  Standards  and 
Practices  Department  of  the  Instrument  Soci- 
ety of  America  |ISA).  His  most  significant 
professional  involvement  has  been  in  design 
problems  associated  with  the  use  of  Foxboro 
products  in  explosive  atmospheres.  This  spe- 
cialty has  brought  about  a  patent,  worldwide 
travel,  teaching  for  the  ISA,  and  representing 
the  USA  on  several  international  committees. 
In  1975,  he  was  selected  Yoimg  Engineer  of 
the  Year  at  Foxboro.  He  has  two  PE  licenses. 
The  Calders  have  four  children,  imd  have  re- 
stored an  old  New  England  house. 

A  year  ago,  Joe  Calzone  was  promoted  to 
manager  of  advanced  engineering  at  GE  in 
Utica,  N.Y.  Except  for  a  term  in  the  Army,  he 
has  been  with  GE  since  1961.  In  his  spare 
time,  he  enjoys  skiing,  fishing,  and  racquet- 
ball. 

Since  1975,  Joseph  Carpentiere  has  been 
self-employed  as  a  software  consultant.  Re- 
cently, he  formed  Decisions,  Inc.,  a  consult- 
ing firm  with  two  partners  and  "expanding." 
Besides  their  two  daughters,  Marcella  and 
Christa,  the  Carpentieres  have  a  Colombian 
son,  Carlos,  who  joined  them  as  an  AFS  ex- 
change student  in  1974,  and  who  now  holds  a 
degree  from  the  University  of  New  Haven. 
Besides  serving  as  chairman  of  the  Planning 
&.  Zone  Commission,  Carpentiere  has  taught 
religious  education. 

Currently,  Richard  Davis  is  involved  in 
strategic  planning  for  the  Military  Products 
Group  and  is  product  marketing  manager  for 
the  military  microprocessors  and  peripherals 
at  Intel,  which  has  just  relocated  to  the  Phoe- 
nix, Arizona  area.  Earlier,  as  editor  for  the 
electronics  magazine  "Micro  Waves",  he  won 
a  Neal  Award,  the  trade  press  equivalent  of  a 
Pulitzer  prize,  for  his  iu-tiele  on  Electronic 
Countermeasures.  While  serving  as  executive 
editor  for  EW  Communications,  he  received 
his  MBA  from  Pepperdinc  University  in  Cali- 
fornia. 

Edward  Desplaines  is  now  employed  by 
t:-E  Incorporated,  a  manufacturer  of  fossil 
fired  power  boilers  and  nuclear  reactors.  Pre- 
viously, while  chief  engineer  of  the  Interna- 
tional Boiler  Works  Co.,  he  designed  some 
unique  tubular  heating  boilers  from  scratch. 
Flying,  hunting,  and  fishing  are  among  his 
pastimes. 

After  a  stint  with  GE,  Nino  Dipilato 
joined  his  present  employer,  IBM,  m  1965. 
During  his  IBM  career  he  has  had  assign- 
ments in  Germany,  Fishkill,  N.Y.,  and  Char- 
lotte, N.C. 


22  /  Fall  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


Currently,  Kenneth  Engvall  serves  as  a 
selectman  in  Boylston,  Mass.  For  a  number 
of  years,  he  was  on  the  town  finance  commit- 
tee. He  is  involved  with  a  small  civil 
engineering-land  surveying  firm  doing  varied 
things  from  straight  survey  to  sanitary  design 
and  from  site  planning  to  subdivision  design. 
Robert  Fitch  holds  the  post  of  business 
systems  manager  at  Collyer  Insulated  Wire, 
Lincoln,  R.I.,  where  he  is  developing  comput- 
erized manufacturing  systems.  "Oh,  yes.  I 
once  took  a  first  class  'red-eye'  from  LA  to 
NY.  In  the  seat  in  front  of  me  was  Paul  New- 
man. We  both  slept  all  the  way!" 

Bill  Gill  enjoys  the  California  lifestyle 
and  most  outdoor  activities  including  camp- 
ing and  hiking.  Active  with  the  youth  soccer 
league  and  the  BSA,  he  also  has  been  presi- 
dent of  the  local  section  of  the  ASCE  and 
chairman  of  the  California  State  Council  of 
Civil  Engineers.  He  helped  co-foimd  Gill  &. 
Pulver  Engineers  Inc.,  (water  development, 
etc.),  which  he  serves  as  president. 

Martin  Gordon  heads  up  the  patient 
monitoring  group  at  Analogic  Corp.,  a  firm  he 
joined  four  years  ago.  Previously  he  was  with 
Transition  Corp.,  Digital  Equipment  Corp., 
and  EG&G.  He  is  located  in  Wayland,  Mass. 
Stuart  Kazin  was  recently  named  general 
manager  of  the  Burlington  Center  of  Foxboro 
Analytical  in  Burlington,  Mass.  He  joins  Fox- 
boro from  Dynamics  Research  Corporation  in 
Wilmington,  where  as  general  manager  of  the 
Precision  Measurement  Division,  he  was  re- 
sponsible for  marketing,  engineering,  manu- 
facturing, quality,  service,  and  controller 
functions.  Previously,  he  was  a  group  leader 
for  the  MIT  Instrumentation  Laboratory  of 
Cambridge,  Mass.  In  1967,  he  received  his 
MS  in  aeronautics  and  astronautics  from 
MIT.  A  former  lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Army 
Signal  Corps,  he  is  married  and  the  father  of 
two  children. 

Digital  Equipment  Corporation,  May- 
nard,  Mass.,  has  annoimced  the  promotion  of 
Ward  MacKenzie  to  vice  president  of  the 
Technical  Volume  Group.  This  new  group  is 
comprised  of  Digital's  Technical  OEM  and 
Microcomputer  Groups.  MacKenzie  also  be- 
comes a  member  of  Digital's  Operations 
Committee.  He  started  at  the  firm  in  1967  as 
DECsystems-IO  operations  manager.  He  has 
held  a  number  of  posts  in  Digital's  U.S.  and 
European  operations,  including  that  of  Euro- 
pean marketing  manager,  and  later,  that  of 
European  manufacturing  manager.  Prior  to 
his  recent  promotion,  he  was  technical  OEM 
Product  Group  manager. 


1963 


1962 


Bruce  Dudley  continues  with  the  Rome  Air 
Development  Center,  at  Griffiss  Air  Force 
Base. 

John  Rupprecht  holds  the  post  of  presi- 
dent of  Sullair  of  New  Mexico  in  Albuquer- 
que. The  company  sells  industrial,  mining, 
,  and  construction  equipment  in  New  Mexico, 
West  Texas,  and  in  Juarez,  Mexico. 


Stuart  Batstone  is  senior  vice  president  of  The 
Giving  Tree  in  Houston,  Texas.  He  has  a  new 
position  with  a  franchise  opening  Christian 
bookstores  in  major  malls  nationwide.  He  has 
an  MA  and  a  master's  of  divinity  degree. 

Harry  Hoyen  is  ctirrently  in  the  Research 
Labs  at  Eastman  Kodak,  Rochester,  N.Y.  Dur- 
ing the  past  year,  he  was  invited  to  deliver  a 
plenary  lecture  at  an  international  sympo- 
sium in  Varna,  Bulgaria,  as  well  as  in  the  cap- 
ital, Sofia.  He  has  travelled  extensively  in 
Europe,  having  given  papers  in  England, 
France,  Belgium,  and  Switzerland.  In  July,  he 
was  general  chairman  of  an  international 
symposium  in  Lake  Placid  involving  over  100 
scientists  carrying  out  research  in  photo- 
graphic science  and  light  induced  effects  at 
semiconductor  interfaces.  Technically,  the 
meeting  was  a  resounding  success,  with  ap- 
proximately forty  presentations  and  with  rep- 
resentation from  over  thirteen  coimtires.  The 
social  highlight  of  the  meeting  was  a  wine- 
tasting  atop  the  Olympic  ski  jump. 

John  Machonis,  Jr.  has  been  promoted  to 
the  newly-created  position  of  manager  of  new 
polymers  R&JD  for  Chemplex  Company,  Roll- 
ing Meadows,  111.  Previously,  he  was  assistant 
manager.  In  his  new  post,  he  will  be  responsi- 
ble for  all  new  polymer  research  activity  for 
the  company  and  will  continue  to  direct  the 
research  efforts  for  Plexar,  a  proprietary  adhe- 
sive resin.  He  started  with  Chemplex  in  1968 
as  a  senior  research  engineer.  He,  his  wife, 
and  two  children  reside  in  Schaumburg,  111. 

Presently,  Robert  Mellor  serves  as  district 
superintendent  of  the  North  Shore  District  of 
the  Massachusetts  Electric  Co. 

Charles  Menzigian,  a  planning  engineer 
for  Western  Electric  in  North  Andover,  Mass., 
is  presently  on  a  three-year  temporary  assign- 
ment with  AT&T  Long  Lines  in  El  Segundo, 
Calif. 


1964 


Peter  Baker  serves  as  an  alcohol  counselor 
at  Howard  Mental  Health  in  Burlington,  Vt. 
He  holds  an  MBA  from  the  University  of 
Cincinnati. 

Recently,  Wflliam  Kaszeta  was  elected  to 
the  board  of  directors  of  the  Radiation  Divi- 
sion of  the  American  Section  of  the  Interna- 
tional Solar  Energy  Society. 

Sterling  McFee  is  employed  as  manager 
of  packaged  products  production  at  Marathon 
Oil  Company,  Robinson,  111. 

Jack  Ryder  holds  the  post  of  chief  engi- 
neer at  Maier  &  Assoc,  in  North  Canton, 
Ohio. 


George  Spires  works  as  a  senior  mechani- 
cal engineering  consultant  at  Brown  &  Root 
in  Houston,  Texas.  He  has  an  MBA  from 
Northeastern. 

Frank  Stone  is  vice  president  of  engineer- 
ing for  Automata  in  Reston,  Va. 


1965 


>■  Married:  Desha  Beamer  and  Matireen  De- 
long  on  February  28,  1981  in  San  Francisco, 
California.  Al  DiPietro,  '66  served  as  best 
man.  Al  and  his  wife  Karin  flew  in  from 
Pennsylvania  to  attend  the  wedding. 

At  the  present  time,  Maj.  David  Coombe 
is  a  student  at  the  U.S.  Army  Command  &. 
General  Staff  College  in  Ft.  Leavenworth,  Ks. 

U.S.  Air  Force  Major  Gene  Dionne  has 
been  reassigned  from  SAMSO-Space  and  Mis- 
sile Systems  Operations  in  Redondo  Beach, 
Calif,  to  a  totir  at  the  Air  Force  Command 
and  Staff  College  in  Montgomery,  Alabama. 
From  there.  Gene,  his  wife.  Peg,  and  their 
son,  Jeremy,  will  move  to  his  next  assign- 
ment at  the  Pentagon. 

Dr.  Bennett  Gordon,  Jr.  has  been  pro- 
moted to  associate  professor  of  mechanical 
engineering  at  WPI. 

Pat  Moran  writes  that  about  a  dozen  WPI 
alums  attended  a  cookout  held  in  honor  of 
the  Paul  Covecs',  '64  rettim  from  their  recent 
ten-month  sailing  adventure.  (They  sailed  in 
their  Morgan  46-ft.  ketch  from  San  Francisco 
to  Boston.)  The  celebration  was  held  at  the 
home  of  Bill  Shields  in  Manomet,  Mass.  in 
July.  Among  those  attending  besides  the 
Covecs  were  Dave  McCaffrey,  Walt  Lankau, 
Duke  Gale,  Dick  Ryczek,  and  Stan  Szy- 
manski,  all  of  the  Class  of  1964.  Also,  from 
the  Class  of  '65  were  Host  Bill  Shields,  Pat 
Moran,  Jim  Fee,  and  Paul  Giusti.  Malcolm 
MacGregor  and  Mike  Portanova  represented 
'66.  According  to  Moran,  the  Shields'  house 
is  similar  to  "an  updated  Higgins  House." 

Gerald  Morris  has  been  elected  vice  pres- 
ident and  treasurer  of  the  Foxboro  Company, 
having  come  from  a  post  as  assistant  vice 
president  and  director  of  corporate  planning 
at  Textron,  Inc.,  Providence,  R.I.  Earlier,  he 
had  served  as  Textron's  corporate  assistant 
treasurer.  Foxboro's  new  chief  financial  offi- 
cer received  his  MBA  from  Harvard  in  1970. 
He  belongs  to  the  North  American  Society  for 
Corporate  Planning.  The  Morrises  have  two 
daughters  and  a  son. 

Dr.  Richard  Reynolds,  who  has  his  PhD 
in  oceanography  from  the  University  of  Ha- 
waii, is  now  an  oceanographer  for  the  Na- 
tional Weather  Service  (NOAA)  in 
Washington,  D.C. 

Dr.  Bruce  Yung,  who  received  his  PhD  in 
biomedical  engineering  from  the  University 
of  Virginia  this  year,  is  currently  a  resident 
engineer  at  Armak  Co.,  McCook,  111. 


The  WPI  journal  /  Fall  1981  /  23 


1966 


Ron  Hayden  continues  with  New  England 
Controls,  which  he  joined  in  1976.  Previ- 
ously, he  was  an  assistant  sales  manager  with 
Fisher  Controls  with  ten  years  of  control  ap- 
plication experience.  His  specialty  is  digital 
systems.  His  profile  appeared  in  a  recent  New 
England  Controls  promotional  brochure. 

|ohn  Kopchik  works  as  strategic  planner 
and  director  of  United  Vintners  in  San  Fran- 
cisco. He  and  Diane  have  two  children  and 
Uve  in  Walnut  Creek. 


1967 


>■  Married:  Alan  W.  Couchon  to  Paula  L. 
Smith  in  Milford,  Connecticut  on  May  16, 
1981.  The  bride  has  a  BS  degree  from  South- 
em  Cormecticut  State  College  and  is  a 
bookkeeper.  Her  husband  serves  as  a  manu- 
facturer's representative. 

Joseph  Cieplak  continues  as  product 
manager  in  the  Measurment  Systems  Divi- 
sion at  ACCO  Industries,  Bridgeport,  Conn. 
This  year  he  received  his  MA  in  communica- 
tions from  Fairfield  University. 

David  Collette  of  South  Hadley,  Mass. 
has  been  selected  by  District  No.  2  Prudential 
Board  as  water  commissioner.  A  registered 
professional  engineer,  he  has  worked  as  a 
maintenance  construction  supervisor  at  Mon- 
santo Co.  in  Springfield  since  1977.  He  will 
serve  in  the  post  until  the  next  district  elec- 
tion in  February. 

Allen  Griswold  is  product  manager  for 
Ocean  Research  Equipment,  Inc.,  Falmouth, 
Mass. 

Mitchell  Koziol  holds  the  position  of 
president  at  Mitchell  Machine  Screw  Co., 
Glastonbury,  Conn   He  and  Hannelore  have 
three  children  and  live  in  Colchester. 

Jack  Rahaim  is  now  corporate  manager  of 
personnel  admmistration  at  Digital  Equip- 
ment Corporation  in  Maynard,  Mass.  He  is 
responsible  for  providing  quality  data 
methods  and  support  procedures. 

Thomas  RJcchi  serves  as  a  computer  ap- 
plications engineer  at  GE  Ordnance  Systems, 
Pittsfield,  Mass. 


1968 


Robcn  Bradley  serves  as  vice  president  of 
manufacturing  at  OZ/Ciedney  Co.,  Terryviilc, 
Conn.  The  firm  is  a  subsidiary  of  General 
Si>^al. 


24  /  FaU  1981  /  The  WPI  loumal 


Dr.  Richard  Formato  continues  as  princi- 
pal engineer  in  electromagnetics  at  Data  Gen- 
eral in  Westboro,  Mass.  In  March,  he  received 
a  U.S.  patent  on  an  apparatus  and  method  for 
measuring  the  velocity  of  a  moving  dielectric 
(poorly  conducting)  material.  The  invention 
constitutes  a  means  for  measuring  the  veloc- 
ity of  a  moving  dielectric  material  from 
which  a  flow  determination  may  be  made.  In 
May,  he  was  issued  another  patent  on  an  im- 
proved automotive  ignition  system.  The  in- 
vention is  a  non-mechanical  system  whereby 
the  high  voltage  pulses  in  a  multi-cylinder 
spark-fired  engine  are  selectively  distributed 
to  the  individual  spark  plugs  in  time  with  en- 
gine operation.  Both  inventions  are  being 
evaluated  by  industry  and  are  slated  to  be 
subjects  of  upcoming  magazine  articles.  Dr. 
Formato  is  also  associated  with  Orion  Associ- 
ates of  Shrewsbury,  Mass. 

Paxson  Gifford  was  recently  appointed  as 
manager  of  trading  at  Texaco  Oil  Trading  and 
Supply  Company  in  Harrison,  N.Y.  He  has  a 
master  of  management  degree  from  North- 
westem  (Ill.|  University.  In  1968,  he  joined 
Texaco  as  a  process  engineer  in  the  U.S.  refin- 
ing department  at  Port  Arthur,  Tex.  After  as- 
signments in  Eagle  Point,  N.J.,  Lockport,  111., 
and  in  New  York  City,  he  received  several 
promotions,  and  was  named  a  senior  coordi- 
nator in  1979. 

Dr.  Roger  Pryor  has  been  named  manager 
of  physical  sciences  for  Pitney  Bowes  corpo- 
rate operations.  He  joined  the  company  in 
1976  as  senior  physicist  for  its  mailing  sys- 
tems division.  He  went  with  the  advance 
mailing  machine  and  meter  systems  depart- 
ment in  1978,  and  was  appointed  group  man- 
ager of  that  department  in  1979.  Dr.  Pryor, 
who  has  had  several  articles  published  in 
technical  journals,  received  his  master's  and 
doctorate  degrees  in  physics  from  Pennsylva- 
nia State  University.  He  belongs  to  the  Amer- 
ican Physical  Society,  Sigma  Xi,  and  the  New 
York  Academy  of  Sciences. 

Richard  Scaia  is  district  manager  of  the 
Torrington  Co.  in  Dayton,  Ohio. 

Did  you  happen  to  catch  the  picture  of 
Marshall  Taylor  on  the  back  cover  of  the  Au- 
gust 3rd  issue  of  Business  Week^  Ryder,  the 
big  name  in  truck  rentals,  was  featiu-ed  in  a 
Continental  Bank  ad,  and  two  Ryder  execu- 
tives (including  Taylor)  were  pictured.  Marsh 
holds  the  post  of  vice  president  and  treasiu-er 
of  Ryder  System,  Inc. 

Michael  True  holds  the  position  of  vice 
president  at  Maine  Building  Specialties,  a  di- 
vision of  Overhead  Door  Company  in  Port- 
land, Maine. 

Ken  Tumbull  serves  as  fire  safety  engi- 
neer at  Texaco,  Houston,  Texas. 

Malcolm  Wittenberg  is  an  attorney  with 
Limbach,  Limbach  <lf<.  Sutton  in  San  Fran- 
cisco. He  holds  a  ]ut\s  Doctor  degree  from 
George  Washington  University.  The  Wiltcn- 
bergs  and  their  three  children  reside  in  Corie- 
madera. 


1969 


Alfred  Freeberg  is  now  at  the  Naval  Postgrad- 
uate School  in  Monterey,  Calif. 

This  fall,  Stephen  Legomsky  joined  the 
Washington  University  School  of  Law  faculty 
as  an  assistant  professor.  He  teaches  courses 
in  torts,  criminal  law,  and  restitution,  as  well 
as  a  seminar  on  immigration  law.  Since  April 
of  1980,  he  has  served  as  chief  of  Division  n. 
Central  Legal  Staff  of  the  U.S.  Court  of  Ap- 
peals for  the  Ninth  District,  San  Francisco. 
His  responsibilities  included  general  supervi- 
sion and  editorial  review  of  all  v^itten  work 
of  the  legal  staff  assigned  to  Division  H.  He 
also  drafted  bench  memoranda  and  proposed 
opinions  and  performed  varied  administrative 
duties.  Previously,  he  was  court  law  clerk  for 
the  U.S.  Court  of  Appeals,  Ninth  Circuit, 
from  September  1979  until  April  1980.  hi 
1977,  he  received  his  JD  degree  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  San  Diego,  graduating  first  in  a 
class  of  237.  After  graduation,  he  studied  at 
Oxford  University,  where  he  was  in  residence 
from  1977  to  1979.  He  expects  to  receive  his 
PhD  in  comparative  immigration  and  com- 
parative administrative  law  next  year.  He  is 
an  associate  in  the  Society  of  Actuaries,  and 
was  employed  earlier  by  John  Hancock  Mu- 
tual Life  Insurance,  Boston,  and  by  the  Pacific 
Fidelity  Life  Insurance  Company,  Los 
Angeles. 

Michael  Nowak  is  now  analytical  group 
leader  for  Sinclair  &.  Valentine  in  West  St. 
Paul,  Minn. 

Dr.  Mahendra  Patel,  P.E.,  was  recently 
elected  to  the  office  of  treasurer  by  the  Engi- 
neering Societies  of  New  England.  He  is  a 
mechanical  engineer  in  the  Engineering,  Plan- 
ning and  Research  Department  at  Boston  Edi- 
son Company,  where  he  has  been  associated 
with  engineering,  design,  constmction  and 
management  of  projects  in  fossil  fueled  power 
plants  since  1969.  Also,  he  has  been  involved 
with  studies  in  air  pollution  control,  environ- 
mental regulations,  and  fuels.  Active  with  the 
Boston  section  of  the  ASME,  he  currently 
serves  as  chaimian  of  honors  and  awards  in 
ASME's  Region  1. 

Robert  Perkins  works  as  a  senior  systems 
programmer  at  Guy  F.  Atkinson  in  South  San 
Francisco,  Calif. 


1970 


Dr  Maria  Alio  is  assistant  professor  of 
surgery  at  tlic  University  of  Colorado  Health 
Sciences  C'enter  in  Denver.  She  received  her 
Ml)  from  the  University  of  Michigan  Medical 
School. 


i 


David  Brown  has  been  elected  vice  presi- 
dent of  engineering  at  Rodney  Hunt  Co.,  Or- 
ange, Mass.  He  joined  the  company  in  1971 
as  a  project  engineer  in  the  Water  Control 
Equipment  Division.  In  1977,  he  became 
chief  product  engineer  and  in  1978  was  pro- 
moted to  manager  of  Water  Control  Equip- 
ment Engineering.  Last  year,  he  w^as 
appointed  director  of  engineering  with  overall 
responsibilities  for  Rodney  Himt's  application 
engineering,  quality  assurance,  field  service 
and  product  engineering.  He  is  also  a  member 
of  the  company's  executive  group.  Currently, 
he  is  completing  work  for  his  MS  in  engineer- 
ing management  at  WPI.  The  Browns,  who 
have  a  son  and  daughter,  live  in  Holden. 

John  Galvin  was  recently  promoted  to 
senior  systems  consultant  within  the  systems 
organization  at  State  Mutual  in  Worcester.  He 
became  associated  with  the  firm  as  an  actuar- 
ial assistant  in  1970,  and  was  named  systems 
analyst  in  1972.  In  1976,  he  was  promoted  to 
senior  systems  analyst,  and  in  1978,  was 
named  systems  consultant.  He  has  an  MBA 
from  Clark  University. 

William  HilLner  is  now  senior  project  en- 
gineer at  Exxon  Co.,  U.S.A.  in  Houston, 
Texas. 

Kalvin  Ngoon  is  a  senior  systems  analyst 
at  Syntex,  Inc.,  Palo  Alto,  Calif. 


1971 


^-Married:  Daniel  E.  Demers  to  Judy  A. 
Ouellette  on  Jime  6,  1981  in  Marion,  Massa- 
chusetts. The  bride,  a  home  economics 
teacher  at  the  Greater  New  Bedford  Regional 
Vocational  Technical  High  School,  graduated 
from  Framingham  State  College.  Her 
husband  is  employed  by  the  Aircraft  Engine 
Group  at  GE  in  Lynn. 

>-Bom:  to  Mary  and  David  A.  True  a 
son,  Joshua  David,  on  November  18,  1980.  In 
June,  True  was  named  as  chief  chemist  at 
Narragansett  Electric  Co.,  Providence,  R.I. 
Previously,  he  was  chief  chemical  technolo- 
gist for  New  England  Power  Co.,  Bray  ton 
Point  Station. 

J.  Lee  Cristy  works  as  a  quality  engineer 
at  Litton-Amecom  in  College  Park,  Md.  He 
has  been  elected  recording  secretary  by  the 
Order  of  the  Sons  of  Italy  in  Laurel. 

Dr.  George  Gardner  holds  the  post  of 
clinical  automation  officer  at  Walter  Reed 
Army  Medical  Center  in  Washington,  D.C.  hi 
1979,  he  received  his  PhD  firom  WPI,  after  re- 
ceiving his  MA  from  Assumption  College. 

Michael  Gitlen  serves  as  a  senior  auditor 
at  Kaman  Corporation  in  Bloomfield,  Conn. 

Charles  Harrison  continues  as  a  methods 
and  procedures  analyst  at  Union  Camp  Cor- 
poration in  Wayne,  N.J. 

Capt.  and  Mrs.  Chris  Johnson  are  now 
stationed  on  the  Presidio  in  San  Francisco, 
Calif.  Chris  is  the  chief  of  quality  assurance 
at  Letterman  Army  Institute  of  Research. 


John  Landahl  holds  the  post  of  project 
manager,  NATO  Project  Section,  Corps  of  En- 
gineers, Europe  Division.  Located  in  West 
Germany,  he  is  presently  working  as  a  civil- 
ian employee  managing  the  design  of  various 
facilities  for  NATO  forces  in  Europe.  He  and 
Nancy  have  two  children. 

Scott  McCandless  is  a  partner  in  HMM 
Associates,  Waltham,  Mass.  He  has  a  mas- 
ter's in  urban  affairs  from  BU. 

Dr.  Richard  San  Antonio  is  now  an  in- 
ternist and  cardiology  fellow  for  the  U.S. 
Army  at  Brooke  Army  Medical  Center,  Fort 
Sam  Houston,  Texas.  He  and  Pamela  have 
two  children. 

Stephen  Sergio,  a  U.S.  Army  captain  f>ta- 
tioned  in  West  Germany,  was  married  on 
April  1 1th.  He  has  an  MS  in  chemistry  from 
the  University  of  Delaware  and  an  MBA  from 
Florida  Institute  of  Technology. 

Dr.  Noel  Totti  III  is  a  pulmonary  disease 
fellow  at  Bames  Hospital  in  St.  Louis,  Mis- 
souri. He  v^rrites:  "Finally  out  of  the  Air 
Force.  Have  become  board  certified  in  inter- 
nal medicine."  The  Tottis  have  two  children 
and  reside  in  St.  Louis. 

Currently,  Donald  Usher  holds  the  post 
of  regional  representative  at  Babcock  &. 
Wilcox  in  Houston,  Texas.  To  date.  He  and 
Annie  have  two  children. 

Steve  Watson  serves  as  a  controller  for 
DEC  in  Geneve,  Switzerland.  He  received  his 
MBA  from  Harvard. 

Currently,  Robert  Wright  is  employed  at 
Central  Labs  in  Worcester. 


1972 


^Bom:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Neil  C.  Herring  a 

daughter,  Kate,  on  Valentine's  Day,  198 1. 
Last  year.  Herring  was  elected  vice  president 
of  finance  at  Path  Lab.,  Inc.,  Portsmouth, 
N.H. 

John  Burke  is  a  hydraulic  engineer  for 
the  U.S.  Bureau  of  Reclamation  in  Boulder 
City,  Nevada. 

Robert  Dorf  continues  as  a  logistics  plans 
officer  with  the  U.S.  Army.  He  is  located 
with  the  HQ  Atlantic  Command  in  Norfolk, 
Va.  He  and  Deborah,  who  reside  in  Virginia 
Beach,  have  two  children. 

Bill  Kamb  still  works  for  Turner  Con- 
struction in  Cleveland. 


1973 


^Married:  Stephen  P.  Cole  and  Susan  J.  Geist 
recently  in  Roslindale,  Massachusetts.  Mrs. 
Cole  graduated  from  Northeastem-Tufts  Den- 
tal Assisting  Program  and  is  a  dental  office 
manager  in  West  Roxbury.  The  bridegroom 
was  an  employee  of  Hartford  Hospital. 


....  Peter  C.  Conti  to  Carol  Latta  on  June 
27,  198 1  in  Fairfax,  Virginia.  The  bride,  a 
dental  hygienist,  graduated  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Vermont  School  of  Dental  Hygiene  in 
Burlington.  Her  husband  is  a  geo-technical 
engineer  for  Stone  &  Webster  Engineering 

Co.,  Cherry  Hill,  N.J John  F.  Sta- 

saitis  and  Ann  M.  Brown  in  Shrewsbury, 
Massachusetts  on  May  30,  1981.  Mrs.  Sta- 
saitis,  who  works  at  the  University  of  Massa- 
chusetts Medical  Center,  Worcester, 
graduated  from  Providence  College.  The 
bridegroom  is  with  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston. 

Peter  Bonaccorsi  is  employed  with  the 
planning  and  engineering  division  of  Fairfax 
Co.  Water  Authority  in  suburban 
Washington,  D.C.  A  professional  engineer,  he 
also  has  a  master's  degree  from  George  Wash- 
ington University. 

Formerly  with  Digital  Equipment  Corp., 
Ron  Bohlin  recently  joined  the  management 
consulting  firm  of  McKinsey  &.  Company.  He 
now  works  in  McKinsey's  Stamford,  Corm. 
office,  and  spends  a  lot  of  time  in  the  firm's 
New  York  City  office. 

Thomas  Ferguson  serves  as  a  senior  for- 
mulations engineer  at  Eli  Lilly  &  Co.,  Green- 
field, Indiana.  This  year  he  received  his  PhD 
from  Iowa  State  University. 

Bruce  Foster  is  a  development  engineer 
with  GE  Ordnance  Systems,  Pittsfield,  Mass. 

Greg  Stamper  continues  as  a  pilot  with 
United  Air  Services.  He  is  located  in  Char- 
lottesville, Va. 

John  Weigele  is  a  medical  student  at  the 
School  of  Medicine,  University  of  Pennsylva- 
nia, Philadelphia.  He  holds  a  PhD  in  bio- 
chemistry from  the  University,  and  expects  to 
receive  his  MD  next  May. 

Michael  Zack  holds  the  position  of  man- 
agement consultant  at  Touche  Ross  &.  Co., 
Boston.  He  has  an  MBA  from  Northwestem. 


1974 


Bom:  to  Gretchen  Lapidus  Lobo  and  Ricardo 

Lobo  a  son,  Rodrigo  Javier,  on  April  22,  1981. 
The  Lobos  still  work  for  the  Metropolitan 
University  in  Mexico  City. 

Alden  Bianchi  has  resigned  his  position 
as  an  associate  in  the  Washington,  D.C.  law 
firm  of  Rivkin,  Sherman  &  Levy  to  open  a 
practice  of  his  ov^m  in  Worcester.  Presently, 
he  is  located  at  390  Main  St.,  Suite  659. 

Gary  Carver  is  a  member  of  the  research 
staff  at  Westem  Electric,  Princeton,  N.J.  Last 
year,  he  received  his  PhD  in  optical  sciences 
from  the  University  of  Arizona. 

During  the  past  few  months,  Steve  Dacri 
has  appeared  with  the  Mills  Brothers  in  Den- 
ver, with  Tony  Orlando  at  Caesers  Palace,  At- 
lantic City,  N.J.,  and  on  the  Mike  Douglas 
TV  show.  In  October  and  November  he  will 
entertain  at  the  Magic  Castle  in  Hollywood, 
Calif. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Fall  1981  /  25 


The  White  House  has  named  William 
Delphos  vice  president  of  operations  and  mar- 
keting of  the  Overseas  Private  Investment 
Corporation  (OPICI.  As  part  of  this  newly- 
created  position,  Bill  will  be  responsible  for 
the  operations  of  the  insurance  and  finance 
departments,  marketing,  and  operations  stra- 
tegic planning.  OPIC  is  the  self-sustaining 
government  agency  that  provides  political 
risk  instirance  and  finance  services  to  encour- 
age U.S.  private  investment  in  more  than  90 
developing  nations.  During  the  past  two 
years,  the  Corporation  has  issued  $1,929  bil- 
lion in  insurance  and  made  commitments  for 
proiect  financing  totalling  over  $244  million. 
In  fiscal  1980,  OPIC's  net  income  was  $65.8 
million.  Prior  to  joining  OPIC,  Bill  held  a 
number  of  key  management  positions  with 
Gould  Inc.  of  Chicago,  most  recently  that  of 
managing  director-international  for  the  Indus- 
trial Products  Group. 

Charlie  Dodd  has  been  promoted  from 
manufacturing  engineer  V  to  the  position  of 
senior  manufacturing  engineer  at  Hitchiner. 
He  joined  Hitchiner  in  1977  after  having  been 
employed  with  Connecticut  Investment  Cast- 
ing Company. 

Donald  Gross,  who  is  stationed  at 
Homestead  AFB,  Florida,  is  a  captain  in  the 
Air  Force. 

Robert  Hodgson  holds  the  post  of  mar- 
keting specialist  at  Wang  Laboratories  in  Lo- 
well, Mass.  He  has  an  MBA  hom  Amos  Tuck 
School,  Dartmouth  College. 

David  Lapre  serves  as  manager  of  product 
design  and  development  at  American  Can 
Co.,  Greenwich,  Conn. 

Dr.  Mark  Mahoney  is  an  emergency 
room  physician  at  Parkwood  Hospital  in  New 
Bedford,  Mass.  He  holds  an  MD  from  the 
University  of  Connecticut.  He  and  Kathryn 
have  one  child  and  reside  in  Mattapoisett. 

William  McBride,  a  project  engineer  in 
instrumentation  for  the  Engineering  Division 
of  VECO,  Inc.,  Anchorage,  Alaska,,  has  just 
spent  ten  months  working  at  Pmdhoe  Bay  on 
contract  to  ARCO-North  Slope  Projects  Qual- 
ity Assurance  Group:  Functional  Checkout 
Group.  He  spent  the  summer  building  a  cabin 
laltemative  energy-technology  dwelling)  in 
Oregon.  In  September,  he  was  slated  to  spend 
a  week  back  East. 

Harvey  Neilson,  who  received  his  MBA 
h-om  BU  this  year,  is  presently  with  IBM 
Corp.,  Burlington,  Vt. 

Stephen  Rubin  continues  as  president  of 
Computer  Control  Systems,  Inc.  in  Norton, 
Mass. 

Michael  Tanca  is  now  a  coal  gasification 
process  development  unit  project  engineer  for 
Combustion  Enginecrmg  of  Windsor,  Conn. 

Dr  Stephen  Thibodeau  has  been  selected 
by  the  science  committee  of  the  American 
AssfKiation  for  Clinical  Chemistry  to  share 
the  1981  Young  Investigator  Award  for  his-re- 
search  involving  breast  cancer  therapy  He 
was  cited  for  his  development  of  a  hormone 
receptor  assay  that  will  aid  physicians  in  pre- 
dicting the  success  of  a  mode  of  therapy  for 
breast  cancer  patients  He  was  recently  a 


postdoctoral  fellow  in  the  clinical  chemistry 
training  program  at  the  Mayo  Clinic.  Along 
with  others  at  the  clinic,  he  developed  a  new 
test  which  is  a  modification  of  several  exist- 
ing hormone  receptor  assays.  In  the  new  test, 
the  concentration  of  both  the  estrogen  and 
progesterone  receptors  are  measured  simulta- 
neously and  used  to  establish  the  hormone- 
dependency  of  the  tumor.  The  Young 
Investigator  Award,  sponsored  by  Boehringer 
Mannheim  Diagnostics,  Inc.,  consists  of  a 
scroll  and  honorarium.  Ctirrently,  Dr.  Thibo- 
deau is  associated  with  Children's  Hospital, 
Denver,  Colorado. 

Mark  Wendell  works  for  Dell  Mfg.  Co., 
Farmington,  Conn.  He  has  an  MSEE  from 
WPI.  The  Wendells  reside  in  Avon. 


Frank  Sundermeyer  is  a  design  engineer 
at  Siemens  Medical  Systems,  Cheshire, 
Conn. 

Jeffrey  Yu  holds  the  position  of  general 
manager  for  King  Machinery,  Inc.,  Compton, 
Calif. 


1975 


^Married:  Geoffrey  R.  Chester  to  Lauren  L. 
Adkins  on  May  16,  1981  in  Rowayton,  Corm. 
The  bride  holds  a  BA  from  Fairfield  Univer- 
sity and  an  MA  in  demography  from  George- 
town Graduate  School.  Currently,  she  is  with 
the  Population,  Health,  and  Nutrition  De- 
partment at  the  World  Bank  in  Washington, 
D.C.  Her  husband  works  for  the  National  Air 
and  Space  Museum  at  the  Smithsonian  Insti- 
tution  lames  K.  Garvey  and  Lynelle 

M.  Kolwicz  in  Danbury,  Connecticut  on 
April  25,  1981.  Mrs.  Garvey  graduated  from 
Danbury  High  School  and  is  a  secretary  at 
Consolidated  Control  Corp.,  Danbury.  The 
groom  serves  as  an  engineer  and  group  super- 
visor for  Perkin-Elmer  Corp.,  Optical  Tech- 
nology Division,  also  located  in  Danbury. 
....  Walter  H.  Wiegert,  ]i.  to  Regina  R. 
Peretti  on  June  13,  1981  in  West  Springfield, 
Massachusetts.  The  bride  has  a  BS  in  biology 
degree  from  Westfield  State  College.  She  is 
with  the  Old  Saybrook  Press,  Saybrook, 
Conn.  Her  husband  is  a  metallurgist  for 
United  Nuclear  Corp.,  Norwich.  He  has  an 
MS  degree  in  metallurgy  from  WPI. 

^Bom:  to  Santa  and  Norton  Bonaparte, 
Jr.  a  son,  Norton  Nathaniel  ID,  on  May  23, 
198 1.  Bonaparte  serves  as  director  of  program 
development  with  the  American  Society  for 
Public  Administration  in  Washington,  D.C. 

Marty  Burgwinkle  is  with  Turner  Con- 
struction, Cleveland,  Ohio. 

On  June  22,  Mark  Drown  joined  Coordi- 
nated Systems,  Inc.,  a  consulting  engineering 
firm  in  West  Hartford,  Conn. 

Peter  Hatgelakas  is  a  geologist- 
geophysicist  with  Peoples  Natural  Gas  of 
Pittsburgh.  Currently,  he  is  drilling  gas  wells 
in  Pennsylvania 

Gordon  Henley  serves  as  a  system  engi- 
neer at  Intermetrics,  Inc.,  Cambridge,  Mass. 
He  and  Carol  Ann  live  in  Sudbury. 

Leo  Letendre  is  a  senior  research  chemist 
at  Monsanto  Agricultural  i'roducts  Co.,  St. 
Louis,  Mo.  This  year,  he  received  his  PhD  in 
chemistry  from  Harvard. 


1976 


►  Married;  Lloyd  A.  Boyden  ID  and  Patricia  L. 
Gancarz  on  July  18,  1981  in  Holden,  Massa- 
chusetts. The  bride,  a  library  clerk,  attended 
the  University  of  Massachusetts.  Her  hus- 
band works  for  the  Newport  News  Shipbuild- 
ing, Atomic  Power  Division Bruce 

G.  Haffty  and  Theresa  M.  Malloy  on  Jime  14, 
1981  in  Worcester.  The  bride,  a  registered 
nurse,  graduated  from  St.  Vincent  Hospital 
School  of  Nursing.  The  bridegroom  is  a  medi- 
cal student  at  Yale  University,  New  Haven, 
Conn. 

^Bom:  to  Ellen  and  Michael  Menesale 
twin  daughters,  Sarah  Ann  and  Arm  Marie, 
on  March  1,  1981.  Menesale,  who  has  an 
MBA  from  the  University  of  New  Haven,  is 
employed  as  a  wire  rope  engineer  at  U.S. 

Steel  Corp.,  Trenton,  N.J to 

Kathleen  and  William  Ruoff  a  son,  Bryan  Mil- 
lard, on  June  2,  198 1. 

Charles  Bohling  works  as  a  senior  ana- 
lyst at  Weathercaster,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

Susan  Valinski  Bryan  is  a  process  engi- 
neer for  Uniroyal  Chemical  in  Naugatuck, 
Conn.  The  Bryans  have  one  child  and  live  in 
Middlefield. 

Continuing  with  Turner  Constmction, 
John  Dewine  is  now  with  the  firm  in  Charles- 
ton, West  Virginia,  where  he  holds  the  post  of 
project  superintendent. 

Stephan  Divoll  serves  as  a  product  spe- 
cialist at  Texas  Instalments  in  Attleboro, 
Mass. 

John  Hamilton  continues  with  Raymond 
International  Builders  in  Saudi  Arabia.  He  is  a 
project  manager  for  the  cement  mortar  lining 
of  steel  pipes  used  for  the  Riyadh  water  trans- 
portation system.  The  twin  pipe  line  will  ex- 
tend from  the  port  city  of  Jubail  and  carry 
desalinated  sea  water  to  the  capital  city  of 
Riyadh  471  KM  away 

Kevin  Hastings  was  recently  promoted  to 
engineer  at  Northeast  Utilities  |NU|  in  Hart- 
ford, Conn.  He  joined  NU  in  1979  as  an  assis- 
tant engineer  and  was  named  associate 
engineer  in  1980.  Currently,  he  is  studying  for 
his  MS  degree  in  management  at  the  Hartford 
Graduate  Center 

Sulekh  lain  holds  the  position  of  techni- 
cal director  at  Beaumont  Well  Works  Co., 
Houston,  Texas. 

Peter  Krupinsky,  a  graduate  of  Loyola 
Law  School,  is  a  public  defender  for  Los 
Angeles  t bounty  in  California. 

M.  |.  McGuirc  is  a  marketing  consultant 
at  GE  in  Bridgeport,  C^onn. 


26  /  Fall  1981  /  The  WPI  Inumal 


Kathleen  Morse  now  holds  the  position 
of  principal  software  engineer  at  Digital 
Equipment  Corp.,  Nashua,  N.H.  "Just  bought 
a  house.  Finally  got  a  sportscar — an  Alfa- 
Romeo.  Have  traveled  to  Australia  and  Eu- 
rope for  work." 

Charles  Moulter  works  as  a  quality  con- 
trol engineer  in  system  testing  at  GE  in  Pitts- 
field,  Mass. 

Delmar  Salomon  heads  R&lD  at  Esquim, 
S.A.,  Cuemavaca,  Mexico. 

Peter  Tordo  is  a  senior  loss  prevention 
representative  for  Liberty  Mutual  Insurance 
Co.,  Norwich,  Corm. 

Andrea  Tyson  has  been  named  market 
manager  of  professional  services  for  the 
Carlson  Group,  Inc.,  an  international  engi- 
neering, architectural  and  construction  man- 
agement firm  headquartered  in  Cochituate, 
Mass.  Her  responsibilities  include  develop- 
ment, management,  and  promotion  of  the 
professional  services  market  of  the  various 
Carlson  companies.  A  registered  landscape 
artist,  she  received  her  BS  from  UMass  and 
her  MSCE  from  WPI.  She  has  lectured  for  the 
ASCE,  WPI,  and  for  the  Center  for  Profes- 
sional Advancement  in  East  Brunswick,  N.J. 
Also,  she  has  been  a  visiting  critic  and  lec- 
turer at  Harvard  University,  Radcliffe  Insti- 
tute. At  Carlson,  she  has  been  involved  in  all 
projects,  including  major  national  and  inter- 
national industrial,  commercial,  and  medical 
facilities. 


1977 


^-MaiTied:  Daniel  A.  Funk  and  Jill  Samp- 
son of  Cincinnati,  Ohio  last  November.  In 
April,  they  traveled  to  Switzerland,  where 
Dan  studied  under  a  surgeon  who  specializes 
in  fracture  fixation  with  implantable  devices. 
In  June,  he  returned  to  this  coimtry  to  receive 
his  medical  doctor  degree  from  the  University 
of  Cincinnati.  In  July,  he  started  his  residency 
in  orthopedic  surgery  at  the  Mayo  Clinic. 
....  Kim  M.  Mohanty  and  Carolyn  C. 
Meinecke  on  July  25,  1 98 1  in  Stillwater,  Min- 
nesota. The  bride,  a  teaching  assistant,  is 
studying  for  her  MS  degree  as  an  oboist  at  the 
State  University  at  Stony  Brook,  N.Y.  She  re- 
ceived her  BA  degree  in  music  in  1978.  Her 
husband  is  a  scientific  computer  programmer 
on  the  Isabelle  Project  at  Brookhaven  Na- 
tional Laboratory.  He  plans  to  study  for  his 

doctorate  in  physics Linda  S.  Weiss 

and  Paul.  B.  Makowski  in  Fairfax,  Virginia  on 
July  25,  1981.  The  bride  received  her  MSCE 
from  Virginia  Polytechnic  Institute  and  State 
University  this  year.  The  groom  has  a  BSCE 
from  Northeastern  and  works  for  the  Illinois 
Institute  of  Natural  Resources,  State  Water 
Survey  Division,  Champaign,  111. 

Currently,  Joan  Adamaitis  broadcasts 
news  beginning  at  5  a.m.  for  radio  station 
WHEB,  Portsmouth,  N.H.  Formerly,  she 


worked  for  a  Worcester  radio  station  and 
taught  high  school  in  the  Worcester  area.  (She 
holds  teaching  certificates  in  English,  French, 
Spanish,  and  Russian.)  Widely  traveled,  she 
was  once  a  govemess  for  a  Massachusetts 
couple  who  taught  at  the  Anglo-American 
School  in  Leningrad. 

Raymond  Baker  is  a  chemical  engineer 
for  utilities  at  Coming  Glass  Works,  Com- 
ing, N.Y. 

Mark  Breton  works  as  an  estimator  at 
Gilbane  Building  in  Clinton,  N.J. 

Richard  Clapp  has  taken  a  permanent 
transfer  from  du  Pont's  Engineering  Services 
Division-field  engineering  section  to  the  Engi- 
neering Services  Division-constiltant  section 
in  Nashville.  He  is  responsible  for  supplying 
materials  engineering  assistance  to  du  Pont 
plants  in  Louisville,  Ky,  Montague,  Mich., 
and  Belle,  West  Virginia.  "Phi  Kappa  Theta 
grads  are  about  everywhere."  The  plant  man- 
ager at  Montague  is  a  WPI  Kap.  Dan  Kenne- 
fick,  '79  is  an  engineer  at  Louisville  and  Bob 
Yule,  '80  is  an  engineer  at  Belle. 

Thomas  Cloft  works  for  Sundstrand 
Fluid  Handling  in  Arvada,  Co.  In  May,  he  re- 
ceived his  MSME  from  RPI.  He  and  Penny  re- 
side in  Denver. 

Asta  Dabrila  serves  as  a  pipe  support  de- 
signer at  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston. 

Chuck  Johnson  has  just  graduated  from 
Cornell  University  Graduate  School  of  Busi- 
ness, where  he  received  his  MBA.  Currently, 
he  is  employed  as  a  product  specialist  at 
Texas  Instruments  in  Attleboro,  Mass. 

Henry  LeBlanc  is  currently  on  leave  of 
absence  from  his  job  with  Mobil  Chemical, 
and  is  now  working  in  the  promotions-PR 
department  of  the  Summer  Repertory  Theatre 
in  Santa  Rosa,  Calif.,  about  an  hour  from  San 
Francisco.  As  a  promotions  assistant,  he's 
been  doing  a  lot  of  fund  raising,  group  sales 
promotions,  and  TV  interviews.  Active  in 
theater  at  WPI,  since  graduation  he  has  acted 
in  numerous  commimity  theaters  and  dinner 
theaters  on  both  coasts.  "Fortunately  for  me, 
Mobil  was  kind  enough  to  release  me  from 
my  responsibilities  for  the  summer  so  I  could 
try  something  new  here  at  SRT"  He  says  that 
the  company  of  31  actors,  aged  17  to  24,  will 
each  perform  in  three  of  six  shows  this  season 
for  over  50,000  people.  Shows  include  "West 
Side  Story,"  "The  Crucible,"  and  "Chicago." 
He  writes  that  Santa  Rosa  is  in  the  heart  of 
the  wine  tasting  coimtry,  and  that  he's  be- 
come a  familiar  face  on  the  wine-tasting 
circuit. 

James  Lunney  is  a  field  engineer  for  GE 
Ordnance  Systems,  assigned  to  Holy  Loch  in 
Scotland. 

Scott  Shurr  holds  a  new  post  as  systems 
analyst  with  the  business  systems  group  of 
Atex,  Inc.,  Bedford,  Mass. 

Scott  Sieburth  works  as  a  research 
assistant  at  Stanford.  He  holds  an  MA  from 
Harvard. 


1978 


►Marned;  Rodney  C.  Dill  and  Sally  Arm 
Stredny  in  Nashua,  New  Hampshire  on  June 
6,  1981.  The  groom  serves  as  a  field  engineer 
for  GE  Ordnance  Systems  and  is  currently  lo- 
cated at  Portsmouth  Naval  Shipyard 

Karen  E.  Hayes  and  Willie  F.  Althammer  in 
Fairhaven,  Massachusetts  on  July  18,  1981. 
Mrs.  Althammer  is  an  engineering  systems 
analyst.  The  bridegroom,  an  aerospace  engi- 
neer, graduated  from  the  University  of  Mary- 
land  Harold  L.  Jacobs  to  Susan 

Stratton-Crooke  in  Scarsdale,  New  York  on 
July  12,  1981.  The  bride,  a  graduate  of  Katha- 
rine Gibbs  School,  is  a  legal  secretary.  Her 
husband  is  with  the  family  business,  A.  Ja- 
cobs Industries,  in  Westchester  and  New  York 
City.   ....  Douglas  R.  Parsons  to  Karen  E. 
Lucey  on  May  9,  1981  in  Enfield,  Cormecti- 
cut.  The  bride  graduated  from  Thompson 
School  of  Nursing,  Brattleboro,  Vt.,  and  is 
employed  by  Choate  Memorial  Hospital,  Wo- 
bum,  Mass.  The  bridegroom  serves  as  a 
programmer-analyst  for  the  EDP  Corporation, 
Needham,  Mass. 

Robert  Brown  is  employed  as  a  project 
engineer  at  Harris  Corp.  in  Dover,  N.H. 

Ralph  Chapman  is  a  programming  con- 
sultant at  Baha'i  World  Centre,  Haifa,  Israel. 

Currently,  Andy  Corman  works  for 
Turner  Constmction  in  Columbus,  Ohio. 

George  Fredette  holds  the  post  of  district 
engineer  for  Halliburton  in  Cortland,  Ohio. 

Frank  Leahy,  who  has  his  master's  degree 
in  operations  research  from  the  University  of 
California,  Berkeley,  is  now  designing  a  new 
planning  system  to  coordinate  production,  in- 
ventory and  marketing  at  Intel  Corp.,  where 
he  is  a  senior  planner. 

Paul  Lefebvre  is  a  mechanical  engineer  at 
the  Naval  Underwater  Systems  Center  in 
Newport,  R.I. 

Dimitrios  Promponas  holds  the  post  of 
senior  computer  analyst  at  Prime  Computer, 
Inc.,  Natick,  Mass. 

Stephen  Robichaud  is  manager  of  printer 
production  at  Data  Printer  Corp.,  Maiden, 
Mass.  The  Robichauds  live  in  Gardner. 

Barry  Rogers  is  with  the  Austin  Com- 
pany in  Cleveland,  Ohio. 

Reginald  Roome  n  is  a  structural  engi- 
neer at  LeMessurier  Assoc,  Cambridge, 
Mass.  This  year  he  received  his  MS  from 
WPI. 

Currently,  Margaret  Stanik  holds  the  po- 
sition of  senior  systems  analyst  at  State  Mu- 
tual in  Worcester.  She  and  her  husband, 
Harry,  have  two  children  and  reside  in 
Holden. 

Brian  Timura  has  completed  his  second 
year  at  Tufts  Medical  School  in  Boston,  and 
has  begim  his  rotations  as  a  clerk  at  Boston 
area  hospitals.  Among  the  various  clerkships 
are:  surgery.  New  England  Medical  Hospital; 
psychiatry.  Veterans'  Administration  Hospi- 
tal; and  medical,  Newton-Wellesley  Hospital, 


The  WPI  journal  /  Fall  1981  /  27 


1979 


>•  Married:  Keith  C.  Bonn  and  Emily  N. 
Strohm  in  Chappaqua,  New  York  on  May  30, 
1981.  The  bride  graduated  hom  State  Univer- 
sity at  Delhi Jeffrey  Bouyea  and  De- 
bra  G.  Calaf  on  May  23,  1981  in  Springfield, 
Massachusetts.  The  groom  ser\'es  as  a  project 
manager  for  Wackworth  Properties  in  Hous- 
ton, Texas Arthur  A.  Foutsitzis  and 

StavTOula  Pappas  on  March  8,  1981  in 
Worcester.  The  bride  graduated  from  Worces- 
ter State  College  and  was  a  foreign  languag*. 
teacher  in  the  Nonh  Middlesex  commimity 
schools,  Townsend,  Mass.  Her  husband,  who 
holds  a  master's  degree  from  WPI,  is  em- 
ployed as  a  development  engineer  by  Univer- 
sal Oil  Products,  Process  Division,  Chicago, 

111 Robert  E.  Guigli  and  Charlene  M. 

Tagliamonte  on  Jime  7,  1981  in  Wellesley 
Hills,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Guigli  graduated 
from  Boston  College.  The  groom  is  employed 
by  Ernest  Guigli  and  Sons,  excavating  con- 
tractors, in  Wellesley. 

►  Married:  David  E.  Largesse  and  Judy 
Bagdis,  '77,  in  Grafton,  Massachusetts  on 
April  11,  1981.  The  bride  is  an  electrical  engi- 
neer at  Polaroid  in  Cambridge,  Mass.  The 
bridegroom  holds  the  post  of  New  England 
district  manager  of  Balston,  Inc.,  Lexington. 
....   Peter  Simonson  to  Lynne  S.  Barriere 
on  [une  6,  1981  in  Sterling,  Massachusetts. 
Mrs.  Simonson,  formerly  a  pasteup  artist  for 
Achom  Graphics,  Worcester,  graduated  from 
Arma  Maria  College.  Her  husband  is  an  elec- 
trical engineer  for  Sanders  Associates, 

Nashua,  N.H Edward  C.  Tidman  III 

to  Cheryl  Ann  Bagdonovich  on  August  8, 
1981  in  Worcester.  The  bride  graduated  from 
Assumption  College  and  is  personnel  coordi- 
nator at  Medical  Personnel  Pool.  The  groom, 
a  group-insurance  underwriter  at  State  Mu- 
tual and  editor  of  the  Worcester  Airport 
Newsletter,  is  studying  for  his  MBA  at  Bab- 
son  College,  Wellesley Hans  Van  De 

Berg  to  Carrie  L.  Davis  on  August  8,  1981  in 
Newington,  Connecticut.  Mrs.  Van  Dc  Berg 
graduated  from  Briarw(H)d  College  Her  hus- 
band is  employed  by  Combustion  Enginecr- 

mg.  Power  Systems,  Windsor Robert 

Wroblewski  and  Karen  Ann  Adamski  in 
Ludlow,  Massachusetts  on  lune  20,  1981. 
Mrs  Wroblewski  graduated  from  Notre 
Dame  High  Schf)ol  and  works  as  a  reception- 
ist for  the  Credit  Bureau  of  Western  Massa- 
chusetts. The  gr(K)m  is  employed  as  an 
electrical  engineer  for  Honeywell,  Inc  , 
Lexington 

Diane  Curren  Bird,  who  visited  the  me- 
chanical engineering  department  at  WPI  on 
June  3()th,  reports  that  she  is  still  with  Wes- 
tinghouse  in  the  manufacturing  engineering 
division  working  on  reactor  c(M)ling  pumps 
She  IS  the  lead  engineer  for  controlled  linkage 
seals  She  and  her  husband,  an  Episcopal  min- 
ister, are  both  planning  additional  graduate 
study  at  Duquesne  University  starting  this 
fall. 


Richard  Bonci  works  as  a  process  engi- 
neer at  Burlington  Industries  in  Clarksville, 
Virginia.  He  and  Karen  have  two  children. 

Gail  D'Amico  has  been  accepted  at  Tufts 
University  in  the  School  of  Veterinary  Medi- 
cine, where  she  will  pursue  a  degree  in  large 
animal  medicine  and  research.  Currently,  she 
is  a  doctoral  student  in  pharmacology  at 
Moimt  Sinai  School  of  Medicine  in  New  York 
City. 

Thomas  Dinan  is  a  research  assistant  at 
the  University  of  Illinois  in  Urbana. 

Dan  Grossman  is  now  a  software  engi- 
neer in  the  network  products  group  at  Codex 
Corp.,  Manfield,  Mass.  He  lives  in  Attleboro. 

Steve  Kapurch  has  begun  his  fourth  as- 
signment in  the  third  and  final  year  of  the 
Navy  Logistics  Engineering  Program.  The  last 
year  will  be  spent  at  the  Fleet  Weapons  Engi- 
neering Directorate,  Pacific  Missile  Test  Cen- 
ter at  Point  Mugu  (Calif. |  Naval  Air  Station. 
'Point  Mugu  may  be  best  knouTi  as  the  Na- 
val Air  Station  which  President  Reagan  flies 
to  for  his  western  vacations  in  Santa  Bar- 
bara." Earlier  this  year,  Steve  was  stationed  at 
the  Naval  Technical  Representative  Office  at 
Inter  State  Electronics  Corporation  in  Ana- 
heim, with  assignments  including  a  review  of 
engineering  changes  on  the  FBM  submarine 
(Polaris,  Poseidon,  Trident]  subsystems.  Pre- 
viously, he  was  assigned  to  the  Naval  Plant 
Representative  Office  in  Burbank  at  the  Lock- 
heed Aircraft  Corporation  and  at  the  Fleet 
Analysis  Center  in  Corona,  where  he  began 
his  engineering  intern  program. 

David  Mangini  works  as  a  staff  assistant 
at  Southern  New  England  Telephone  in  New 
Haven,  Conn. 

Michael  McDonald  is  employed  as  a  nu- 
clear engineer  II  at  Combustion  Engineering. 
He  resides  in  Palmer,  Mass. 

Jeff  Michaels  is  now  a  process  engineer  at 
Borden  Chemicals  in  Leominster,  Mass. 

Having  received  his  MBA  from  Babson 
College  last  year,  David  Smith  continues  as  a 
manufacturing  operations  analyst  at  GcnRad, 
Inc.,  Bolton,  Mass. 

Marine  second  lieutenant  Gregory  Van 
Houten  has  reported  for  duty  with  the  2nd 
Amphibian  Tractor  Battalion,  Marine  Corps 
Ba.se,  Camp  Lejeuene,  N.C.  He  joined  the 
Marine  Corps  in  1978. 


1980 


>■  Married:  Timothy  A.  Andrews  to  Valerie  I. 
Cummings  in  Dighton,  Massachusetts  on 
lime  21,  1981.  The  bride  is  a  clinical  psychol- 
ogist with  McLean  Hospital  and  Mystic  Val- 
ley Mental  Health  (xnter  She  graduated 
from  Dartmouth  and  Indiana  University  of 
Pennsylvania.  C'urrently,  she  is  doing  ad- 
vanced doctoral  work  at  Harvard  The  groom, 
who  also  graduated  from  Dartmouth,  has  an 
MS  from  WPI   I W  is  doing  grailuate  work  at 


Sloan  School  of  Management  at  MIT.  He  is 
employed  by  Honeywell  Information  Sys- 
tems, Billerica,  where  he  holds  the  post  of 

senior  programmer Robert  F.  Berlo 

and  Eve  L.  Martin  on  fune  6,  1981  in  Wey- 
mouth, Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Berlo  graduated 
from  Salve  Regina  College  and  is  an  RN  at 
Quincy  City  Hospital.  Her  husband  works  as 
a  sales  engineer  at  Hinds  &  Coon  Company 
of  Boston. 

>- Married:  Timothy  M.  D'Arcy  and  Pa- 
tricia Ann  Leemann  in  Somers,  Connecticut 
on  Jime  6,  1981.  Mrs.  D'Arcy  graduated  from 
the  University  of  Connecticut  School  of 
Nursing  and  is  employed  by  Hartford  Visiting 
Nurse,  Hartford.  The  groom  holds  the  post  of 
territory  manager  for  Parker  Hannifin  Corp., 

Cleveland,  Ohio Peter  J.  Foha  and 

Kathleen  M.  Kennedy  on  Jime  26,  1981  in 
Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Folta  attended  Holyoke 
Community  College  and  is  a  manager  for 
Burger  King  in  Springfield.  The  groom  is  a 
rate  engineer  at  Commonwealth  Energy. 
....   Anthony  E.  Jaimetta  and  Catherine  A. 
Jeffords  on  June  6,  1981  in  New  London,  Con- 
necticut. The  bride  graduated  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  Connecticut  School  of  Pharmacy  in 
Storrs.  Her  husband  is  with  Harris  RF  Com- 
munications in  Rochester,  N.Y 

Robert  J.  Pearson  to  Jamie  E.  Giguere  on  May 
16,  1981  in  Worcester.  The  bride  is  a  student 
at  Assumption  College.  The  bridegroom  is  a 
chemical  engineer  for  Pfizer,  Inc.,  Groton, 

Conn Mark  S.  Tino  to  Pamela  Hig- 

gins  in  South  Easton,  Massachusetts.  Mrs. 
Tino  attended  Aquinas  Junior  College.  The 
bridegroom  is  a  systems  consultant  for  Arthur 
Andersen  &.  Company. 

Michael  Aghajanian  is  associated  with 
manufactiuing  management  at  GE  in 
Chicago. 

Theresa  Metcalf  Catanach  continues  as  a 
financial  analyst  at  Norton  Co. 

Raymond  Cronin  serves  as  a  sales  engi- 
neer and  technical  accounts  representative 
at  Megatest  in  Whitehall,  Pa.  He  is  opening 
a  new  district  office  for  the  finn  in  Pennsyl- 
vania. 

Thomas  Egan  is  employed  as  an  engi- 
neering staff  member  at  Rocketdyne  Division 
of  Rockwell  International  in  Canoga  Park, 
Calif.  Also,  he  is  president  of  High  End 
Boardsailing,  Sailboard  Sales  (!k  Lessons. 

David  Gura  works  as  a  field  logging  engi- 
neer for  Schlumberger  of  Corpus  Christi, 
Texas. 

Daniel  hse  is  an  associate  engineer  at  Ri- 
ley Stoker  in  Worcester. 

Pat  Keough  serves  as  a  staff  biochemical 
engineer  at  Merck  t^hemical,  Danville,  Pa. 

Garcth  Kucinkas  is  employed  as  an  appli- 
cations engineer  al  tlie  Lee  Co.,  Westbrook, 
Conn. 

John  Letoumeau,  who  has  received  his 
MS  degree  from  USt!,  is  now  a  member 
of  the  technical  staff  at  Bell  Labs  in  Piscata- 
way,  N.|. 


Donald  May  holds  the  post  of  field  engi- 
neer for  Raymond  International  Builders  of 
New  Jersey. 

Fred  Mirabelle  continues  as  a  design  en- 
gineer for  Harris  Corp.,  Dover,  N.H.  "Recent 
business  move  from  Harris/Westerly,  R.I.  to 
Harris/Dover.  Division  split." 

Marguerite  O'Keefe  serves  as  an  indus- 
trial territorial  sales  engineer  for  Westing- 
house  Electric  Corp.,  Hillside,  N.J.  She  is 
located  in  Roslindale,  Mass. 

Mark  Pankoski  is  a  programmer-analyst 
for  the  American  Society  of  Civil  Engineers  in 
Nevkf  York  City. 

Touiadj  Pourrahimi  is  with  Macrodata 
Corp.,  Woodland  Hills,  Calif. 

Angelo  Scangas  works  as  a  maintenance 
supervisor  for  National  Starch  &.  Chemical  in 
Plainfield,  N.J. 

Philip  Suomu  is  a  telecommunications 
section  chief  at  AVCO,  Wilmington,  Mass. 

William  Taber  works  as  a  process  engi- 
neer at  Fairchild  in  South  Portland,  Me.  He 
and  Margaret  reside  in  Yarmouth. 

John  Tasse  is  employed  as  a  reactor  per- 
formance engineer  at  Knolls  Atomic  Power 
Labs  in  Schenectady. 

John  2^ara  works  as  a  system  engineer 
at  Bunker  Ramo,  Trumbull,  Cotm. 


1981 


>■  Married:  Ruth  Adams  to  Manuel  Teixeira 
in  Norton,  Massachusetts  on  Jvme  20,  1981. 
The  bride  is  a  structural  engineer  for  Stone  &. 
Webster,  Boston.  Her  husband  graduated  from 
Norton  High  School  and  is  employed  in  the 
shipping  department  of  the  Foxboro  Com- 
pany  Scott  T.  Cloyd  and  Rose  Mary 

Jackson  on  August  22,  1981.  The  bride,  a 
graduate  of  Southern  Illinois  University,  is  a 
high  school  business  education  teacher.  The 
groom  is  an  associate  engineer  with  the  Water 
Reactor  Division  of  Westinghouse  Electric 

Corporation,  Pittsburgh,  Pa Steven 

Dupont  and  Andrea  Nelson  in  Mattapoisett, 
Massachusetts  on  July  5,  1981.  Mrs.  Dupont 
graduated  from  Becker  and  attended  South- 
eastem  Massachusetts  University.  She  is  a 
physical  therapist  assistant. 

^Maiiied:  David  E.  Green  and  Roberta 
M.  Lepak  in  Massachusetts  on  June  27,  1981. 
The  bride,  a  graduate  of  Mount  Holyoke  Col- 
lege, is  a  graduate  student  in  psychology  at 
the  University  of  Massachusetts,  Amherst. 
The  groom  is  with  S.  R.  Green  and  Sons,  Ho- 
lyoke  Leon  J.  Laviolette  and  Pamela 

Lynch  on  Jime  12,  1981  in  Thomdike,  Massa- 
chusetts. Mrs.  Laviolette  graduated  from 
Palmer  High  School.  Her  husband  is  a 
contact  engineer  with  Exxon  Corp.  in  Bay- 
town,  Texas Bruce  W.  MacLeod  and 

Lynne  Goldworthy  on  July  11,  1981  in  South 
Ponland,  Maine.  The  bride  graduated  from 
Portland  High  School.  The  bridegroom  is  a 


civil  engineer  for  Los  Angeles  (Calif.) 

Coimty Francis  G.  Polito  to  Paula  L. 

Bisson  in  Worcester  on  June  20,  1981.  Mrs. 
Polito  graduated  from  Assumption  College, 
and  through  New  York  University,  spent  her 
junior  year  at  the  Sorbonne  in  Paris.  The 
bridegroom  is  a  teaching  assistant  enrolled  in 
the  MS /PhD  program  at  Comell  University. 

Raymond  Aubert  has  joined  the  Tor- 
rington  (Conn.)  Company,  where  he  is  a  bear- 
ing engineer. 

Currently,  Daniel  Beliveau  is  a  second 
lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Army  Infantry.  From 
March  through  May,  he  attended  the  Ranger 
course  given  at  Ft.  Benning,  Ga.  In  May,  he 
was  stationed  at  Ft.  Stewart,  also  in  Georgia. 

David  Briggs  is  with  International  Data 
Sciences,  Lincoln,  R.I Richard  Buck- 
ley works  for  Harris  Corporation-RF  Comm. 
Division  in  Rochester,  N.Y 

Radian  Corporation,  Durham,  N.C.  has 
employed  Suzanne  Call  as  a  chemical  engi- 
neer. 

Currently,  Paul  Chetham  is  studying  for 
his  MD  at  the  University  of  Massachusetts 
Medical  School,  Worcester. 

Thomas  Clark  has  begun  work  for  Bell 
Telephone  Laboratories,  Naperville,  111. 

Katherine  Coghlan  serves  as  a  second 
lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force. 

Bonnie  Cook  is  with  the  Air  Force  at  the 
Pentagon  in  Washington,  D.C. 

Thomas  Cotton  has  been  serving  as  a 
teaching  assistant  in  the  WPI  electrical  engi- 
neering department. 

Eleanor  Cromwick  has  been  employed 
by  Turner  Construction,  Boston. 

Scott  Grossman  holds  the  post  of  applica- 
tions engineer  at  Fafntr  Bearing,  New  Britain, 
Conn. 

Robert  Daley,  Jr.  works  for  Brown  & 
Sharpe  Mfg.  Co.,  North  Kingstown,  R.I. 

Richard  Darcy  works  for  Eastman  Kodak 
Co.  He  is  located  in  Pittsford,  N.Y. 

Daretia  Davis,  who  currently  resides  in 
Houston,  Texas,  works  for  Exxon  Production 
&.  Research. 

Laurence  Dean  is  an  associate  engineer 
for  Westinghouse  Power  Generation  Group  in 
Lester,  Pa. 

Norman  Delisle  was  recently  named  as  a 
software  research  engineer  at  Tektronix,  Inc., 
Beaverton,  Oregon.  He  holds  an  MSCS  from 
WPI. 

Michael  DiCostanzo  is  a  graduate  stu- 
dent at  WPI. 

Currently  located  in  Dallas,  Texas,  John 
Eagan,  Jr.  has  been  employed  by  Texas  Instru- 
ments, Inc. 

Beverly  Elloian  works  as  a  civil  engineer 
at  Bechtel  Northem  Corporation.,  Gaithers- 
burg,  Md. 

Robert  Endres  has  been  hired  as  an  elec- 
trical engineer  by  du  Pont  in  Ingleside,  Texas. 

Lisa  Feam  is  employed  by  Varian/Extrion 
Division,  Gloucester,  Mass. 

At  the  present  time,  Patricia  Ficociello 
serves  as  a  process  engineer  at  Coming  Medi- 
cal &  Scientific.  She  is  headquartered  in  East 
Walpole,  Mass. 


The  U.S.  Department  of  Defense,  Wash- 
ington, D.C.  employs  Paul  Filosa  as  a  mathe- 
matician. 

Mark  FitzMaurice  has  been  named  an 
electrical  design  engineer  at  Texas  Instru- 
ments in  Dallas,  Texas. 

Walter  Flanagan  HI  is  a  structural  engi- 
neer at  Camp  Dresser  &.  McKee,  Boston. 

William  Fletcher  is  now  with  Hewlett- 
Packard.  He  is  located  in  Lexington,  Mass. 

Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Maynard, 
Mass.,  has  employed  Catherine  Giiouard  as  a 
quality  control  engineer. 

Mary  Goodrow  works  for  GE  in  Schenec- 
tady, N.Y. 

Anestis  Halkidis  has  joined  Digital 
Equipment  Corp.,  Maynard,  Mass. 

A.  Kent  Hamois  is  currently  a  main- 
tainability engineer  at  DEC  in  Marlboro, 
Mass. 

John  Harris  holds  the  post  of  develop- 
ment engineer  at  American  Hoechst  Corp., 
Leominster,  Mass. 

Robert  Hawkins,  who  is  located  in 
Shreveport,  La.,  works  for  Schlumberger  Well 
Services. 

John  Healy  works  for  Anaconda  Metal 
Hose,  Waterbury,  Conn. 

Dick  Hennessy  is  currently  employed  by 
Brown  &  Sharpe  Mfg.  Co.  in  North  Kings- 
town, R.I.  He  is  in  the  management  training 
program  in  the  Manufacturing  Engineering 
Department. 

Lee  Hevey,  a  mechanical  engineer  for 
Coming  Glass  Works,  resides  in  Painted  Post, 
N.Y. 

Peter  Hicks  has  been  named  as  manufac- 
turing engineer  for  the  Connector  Systems 
Division  of  Texas  Instruments  in  Mansfield, 
Mass. 

Leonard  Hinds  is  a  product  quality  engi- 
neer at  Eastman  Kodak. 

Susan  Hoffma  works  for  Badger  America, 
Inc.,  in  Cambridge,  Mass. 

Joseph  Horvath  is  now  with  Hughes  Air- 
craft Company's  Ground  System  Group,  lo- 
cated in  Fullerton,  Calif.  A  member  of  the 
technical  staff,  he  has  a  programming  assign- 
ment with  the  System  Development  pro- 
gram. The  II,000-man  Hughes  Fullerton 
facility  specializes  in  defense  programs  for  the 
U.S.  military. 

Litton  Data  Systems  has  named  Dennis 
Houle  as  a  design  engineer  in  Van  Nuys, 
Calif. 

David  Ireland  is  a  member  of  the  techni- 
cal staff  at  Bell  Labs  in  North  Andover,  Mass. 

David  Jacobs  has  been  with  the  depart- 
ment of  physics  at  WPI,  serving  as  a  research 
assistant. 

Deborah  Johnson  is  a  graduate  teaching 
assistant  at  the  University  of  Michigan,  Ann 
Arbor. 

Donna  Johnston  is  a  design  engineer  for 
du  Pont,  Wilmington,  Delaware. 

Roger  Keilig  has  been  accepted  at 
Camegie-Mellon  University  in  Pittsburgh, 
where  he  will  pursue  his  MS  in  geo-technical 
engineering. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Fall  1981  /  29 


William  Kiczuk  has  joined  the  Equip- 
ment Group  at  Texas  Instruments  in  Dallas. 

Hone>'w'ell  Information  Systems  has 
named  Deborah  Kinne  as  a  member  of  the 
Advanced  Engineering  Program  in  Billerica, 
Mass. 

Brian  Klinka  works  for  Westinghouse  in 
Philadelphia. 

Robert  Kuldlnski  is  a  student  actuary  for 
Simlife  of  Canada,  Wellesley  Hills,  Mass.  His 
wife,  Anne  Haselton  Kuklinski,  '80,  works 
for  Chas.  T.  Main,  Boston. 

David  LaPotin,  who  has  received  his 
MSEE  from  WPI,  is  a  design  engineer  with 
GTE  Laboratories,  Waltham,  Mass.  He  gradu- 
ated with  a  BSEE  from  Temple  University, 
Philadelphia. 

Glenn  Lawton  serves  as  an  associate  de- 
velopment engineer  at  Honeywell-Electro  Op- 
tics Operations,  Lexington,  Mass. 

Stephen  Leslie  has  joined  Travelers  Insur- 
ance, Hartford. 

Mark  Malenbaum  is  a  second  lieutenant 
in  the  U.S.  Air  Force. 

Jim  McCall  is  employed  as  a  professional 
research  engineer  by  Chevron  in  California. 

Richard  Molongoski  serves  as  environ- 
mental engineer  in  Boston  at  Camp  Dresser 
&  McKee,  Inc. 

Bernard  Mongilio  has  been  named  sys- 
tems analyst  at  State  Mutual,  Worcester. 

Peter  Nemiroff  holds  the  position  of  di- 
rector of  research  and  development  at  The 
Nemiroff  Corporation,  New  York  City.  He  be- 
longs to  the  New  York  Academy  of  Sciences, 
the  American  Association  for  the  Advance- 
ment of  Science,  and  the  Sons  of  the  Ameri- 
can Revolution. 

Scott  Nisula  has  accepted  a  post  as  pro- 
fessional research  engineer  at  Chevron  Re- 
search Co.,  Richmond,  Calif. 

Douglas  Norton  is  with  the  International 
Systems  Corp.  at  GTE  in  Waltham,  Mass., 
where  he  is  an  associate  systems  applications 
engineer. 

lay  Norwood  has  joined  Chevron.  He  is 
located  m  California. 

Dave  Patrick,  who  works  for  Texas  In- 
struments, resides  in  Dallas. 

Raymond  Perigard  has  been  named  as  a 
chemical  engineer  at  Union  Carbide  Corp., 
Tarrytown  (NY.)  Technical  Center. 

Automation  Inc.,  Burlington,  Mass.,  has 
employed  Gregory  Phipps  as  an  applications 
engineer 

Marylou  Place  is  with  Exxon  Research 
and  Engincermg  Co  ,  Florham  Park,  N.j. 

Michael  Pugh  works  as  an  associate  engi- 
neer for  NBI  in  Boulder,  Colorado. 

Roland  Roberge  is  a  field  engineer  at  GE. 

Kurt  Ross  contmucs  at  WPI,  where  he  is 
going  to  graduate  sch(K)l. 

Fred  Rucker  has  accepted  the  post  of  op- 
crations  supervisor  at  ATficT  Long  Lines  in 
Manchester,  N  H 

Richard  Rykosky  has  joined  Gatx  Temii-- 
nals  as  a  proiect  engineer.  The  firm  is  located 
m  Chicago. 


Jeffrey  Smith  is  associated  with  opera- 
tions engineering  at  Dresser  Atlas  Industries, 
Houston,  Texas. 

Greg  Stanford  is  attending  Carnegie- 
Mellon  University,  Pittsburgh. 

James  Steele  continues  at  WPI,  where  he 
is  studying  for  his  master's  degree  in  mechan- 
ical engineering. 

Brian  Stoffers  works  for  Honeywell/ 
Small  Systems  and  Terminal  Division,  Bil- 
lerica, Mass. 

Combustion  Engineering  has  employed 
Peter  Tiziani  as  an  engineer  I.  The  company 
is  located  in  Windsor,  Conn. 

Jeff  Trask  is  a  professional  research  engi- 
neer at  Chevron  Research  Co.  (Standard  Oil) 
in  Richmond,  Calif.  He  lives  in  Rodeo. 

Jeffrey  Wade  serves  as  a  product  manager 
at  Adage,  Inc.,  Billerica,  Mass. 

Andre  Walker  has  been  named  a  develop- 
ment engineer  at  UOP,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

Mali  Weiderpass  serves  as  a  second  lieu- 
tenant in  the  U.S.  Army. 

Thomas  Woodbury  has  joined  Fluor  Engi- 
neers &  Constructors,  Irvine,  Calif. 

Dennis  Wysocki  is  now  a  project  engi- 
neer at  Clairol  in  Stamford,  Conn. 


School  of 
Industrial 

Management 

Frank  Ashe,  '68,  recently  received  the  Presi- 
dent's Award  as  sales  specialist  of  the  year  for 
American  Optical's  safety  products  business. 
He  serves  as  manager  of  special  accounts,  and 
came  to  AO  in  1945.  In  1946,  he  joined  the 
Safety  Products  Division.  He  has  held  his  cur- 
rent post  since  1972.  He  is  a  member  of  the 
American  Society  of  Safety  Engineers,  the 
American  Industrial  Hygiene  Association,  and 
the  Veterans  of  Safety. 

On  July  1st,  Samuel  Sotir,  '72,  opened 
his  own  business.  The  Office  Center,  a  com- 
pany offering  office  space  and  business  serv- 
ices in  Auburn,  Mass.  The  center  provides 
such  administrative  services  as  secretarial 
help,  mini-computer  operations,  telephone 
answering,  mail  service,  and  Telex  transmis- 
sion. It  also  rents  office  space,  including  re- 
ception and  conference  rooms,  with  furniture 
and  equipment  being  available.  The  company 
caters  to  consultants,  regional  sales  persons, 
researchers,  and  job  hunters  who  need  part- 
time  office  space  and  help,  and  to  businesses 
which  need  additional  office  space  to  accom- 
modate peak  work  loads.  Sotir  is  also  founder 
and  president  of  The  Phoenix  Corp.  of  Au- 
burn, a  financial  management  consulting 
company.  He  lectures  on  financial  manage- 
ment at  Assumption  Ciollege. 


Natural  Science 
Program 

>-BoTn:  to  Edwina  and  Michael  E.  Lewan- 
dowski,  '74  a  son,  Brian  Michael,  on  July  12, 
1981.  The  Lewandowskis,  who  live  in  Somer- 
set, Mass.,  have  another  son,  Scott,  3. 

Charles  Ferris,  '74  has  been  appointed 
the  new  headmaster  and  manager  of  the  high 
and  middle  schools  in  Shrewsbury,  Mass.  He 
will  be  responsible  for  overseeing  the  transi- 
tion from  the  current  jimior  high  and  high 
school  system  to  one  comprising  middle  and 
high  schools.  Formerly  guidance  department 
chairman  at  Shrewsbury  Senior  High  School, 
he  helped  coordinate  the  self-help  for  achiev- 
ing personal  excellence  and  the  sex  education 
life  in  the  family  programs  at  the  high  school. 
Also,  he  served  as  chairman  of  the  staff  devel- 
opment and  drug  abuse  committees  and 
wrote  the  "Counselor's  Appointment  and  Ac- 
tivity Guide."  He  received  degrees  from 
Clark  University  and  has  attended  Worcester 
State  College.  He  is  enrolled  in  an  educa- 
tional leadership  and  administration  program 
at  Worcester  State. 

Richard  Stevens,  '81,  continues  as  a  sci- 
ence teacher  at  East  Jr.  High  School,  Andover, 
Mass. 


30/  Fall  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


Ronald  E.  Greene,  '17,  died  in  Royal  Oak, 
Michigan  on  April  26,  1981. 

A  native  of  Stow,  Mass.,  he  was  bom  on 
March  1,  1893.  He  graduated  as  an  electrical 
engineer  from  WPI  in  1917.  Following  gradua- 
tion, he  served  as  an  ensign  in  the  U.S.  Navy 
during  World  War  1. 

For  seven  years,  he  worked  for  GE  in 
Schenectady,  N.Y.  In  1926,  he  joined  the  De- 
troit Edison  Co.,  and  remained  with  the  firm 
until  his  retirement  as  assistant  manager  of 
construction  in  1958. 

Mr.  Greene  belonged  to  Tau  Beta  Pi, 
Theta  Chi,  the  AIEE,  and  the  Engineering  So- 
ciety of  Detroit,  as  well  as  to  the  Economic   ' 
Club  of  Detroit  and  the  American  Legion. 

James  Apostolou,  '18,  of  Pittsburgh,  Pennsyl- 
vania, a  long-time  employee  of  Westinghouse, 
died  on  February  19,  1981  at  the  age  of  88. 

He  was  bom  on  Dec.  28,  1892  in 
Kavalla,  Greece.  In  1918  he  received  his  BSEE 
from  WPI.  During  his  career,  he  was  with 
Westem  Electric  and  Westinghouse  Electric 
in  East  Pittsburgh,  Pa.,  and  Buffalo,  N.Y.  He 
had  served  as  a  general  electrical  engineer, 
application  engineer,  and  sales  engineer  in 
various  locations.  In  1958,  he  retired  from 
Westinghouse. 

Howard  L.  Brooks,  '19,  a  former  chairman  of 
the  board  of  Ferro  Enameling  Co.,  Oakland, 
Califomia,  died  on  May  3,  1981. 

He  majored  in  chemistry  at  WPI,  and 
later  became  a  member  of  the  Class  of  1919. 
Early  in  his  career,  he  was  with  Lewis  She- 
pard  Co.,  manufacturing  engineers  in  Boston, 
Mass.  In  1918  he  served  as  a  seaman  second 
class  in  a  special  detail  of  chemical  engineer- 
ing (chemical  warfare). 

Mr.  Brooks,  who  also  studied  at  MIT, 
was  a  member  of  Phi  Gamma  Delta.  He  was 
bom  on  Aug.  9,  1896  in  West  Springfield, 
Mass. 


Joseph  J.  Morrow,  '25,  a  retired  vice  president 
of  Pitney-Bowes,  Inc.,  died  in  Atlanta,  Geor- 
gia on  June  21,  1981.  He  was  78  years  old. 

During  his  25  years  with  Pitney-Bowes, 
he  served  as  director  of  personnel  relations, 
was  elected  vice  president  for  personnel  rela- 
tions in  1958,  and  then  promoted  to  vice 
president  for  administration  in  1963.  As  an 
administrator,  he  helped  the  firm  extend  fair 
employment  opportunities  to  blacks,  and  as 
an  Urban  League  board  member,  he  made  na- 
tionwide speeches  on  the  subject  of  imple- 
menting a  program  to  integrate  blacks  in 
industry.  In  1968,  he  retired  from  Pitney- 
Bowes. 

Civic-minded,  he  was  officially  asso- 
ciated with  the  National  Conference  of  Chris- 
tians and  Jews,  the  Cormecticut  Equal 
Employment  Opportunity  Council,  and  the 
Business  Equipment  Manufacturers'  Associa- 
tion. The  late  President  Johnson  appointed 
him  to  serve  on  the  National  Citizens'  Com- 
mittee for  Community  Relations.  In  1958,  he 
was  named  Citizen  of  the  Year  in  Stamford, 
Conn. 

Mr.  Morrow  was  bom  on  March  15,  1903 
in  Greenwich,  Conn.,  and  later  became  a  stu- 
dent at  WPI  and  MIT.  At  one  time  he  oper- 
ated his  own  building  contracting  firm.  He 
belonged  to  ATO. 

Arthur  S.  Chavoor,  '28,  died  in  Cambridge, 
Massachusetts  on  May  27,  1981  following  a 
long  illness. 

A  native  of  Syria,  he  was  bom  on  Aug. 
16,  1904.  He  enrolled  as  a  civil  engineering 
student  at  WPI.  For  41  years  he  was  with  the 
Metropolitan  District  Commission  in  Boston, 
which  he  served  as  associate  civil  engineer 
and  assistant  director  of  engineering  in  the 
Sewerage  Division.  He  helped  design  the 
Deer  Island  pumping  station,  and  retired  as 
chief  engineer  of  the  division. 

Mr.  Chavoor  was  a  professional  civil  en- 
gineer and  land  surveyor  in  Massachusetts. 
He  was  active  with  the  Society  of  Massachu- 
setts State  Engineers,  the  Professional  Engi- 
neers Association,  and  the  Boston  Society  of 
Civil  Engineers,  as  well  as  the  Engineering 
Societies  of  New  England. 

Arthur  W.  Olcott,  '28,  retired  vice  president 
of  the  Property  Owners'  Service  Corp.,  died 
in  Damariscotta,  Maine  on  July  12,  1981.  He 
was  76  years  old. 

After  studying  civil  engineering  at  WPI, 
he  joined  the  New  England  Power  Co.  for  two 
years.  From  1930  to  1965  he  was  employed 
by  the  Highway  Department  of  the  State  of 
Connecticut,  where  for  three  years  before  his 
retirement,  he  served  as  director  of  the  Bu- 
reau of  Rights  of  Way. 

During  his  retirement,  he  was  a  consul- 
tant for  real  estate  appraisal  in  Connecticut 
and  became  vice  president  of  the  Property 
Owners  Service  Corp.  of  Farmington,  retiring 
again  in  1976.  He  was  chairman  of  the  board 
of  tmstees  of  the  Central  Baptist  Church, 
Hartford,  Conn.,  and  a  member  of  SAE.  He 
enjoyed  making  stained  glass  lamps  as  a 
hobby. 


A  Hartford  native,  he  was  bom  on  June 
4,  1905.  At  one  time,  he  was  consultant  for 
the  beautification  program  for  highways  in- 
spired by  Lady  Bird  Johnson. 

Dr.  James  H.  Williams,  '29,  a  developer  of 
sulfa  drugs,  died  at  his  home  in  Ridgewood, 
New  Jersey  on  June  11,  1981  following  a  long 
illness. 

He  was  bom  on  Jan.  1,  1908  in  Manches- 
ter, England,  and  came  to  the  U.S.  in  1921.  In 
1929,  he  graduated  from  WPI  with  his  BS  in 
chemistry,  and  in  1933,  he  received  his  PhD 
in  organic  chemistry  from  New  York  Univer- 
sity He  was  a  member  of  Tau  Beta  Pi,  Sigma 
Xi,  and  Lambda  Chi  Alpha. 

Early  in  his  career,  he  was  employed  by 
the  Patent  Division  of  Allied  Chemical  Corp. 
In  1937,  he  joined  the  American  Cyanamid 
Co.  research  laboratories  in  Stamford,  Conn. 
In  1945,  he  was  transferred  to  the  Lederle 
Laboratories  Division  of  American  Cyanamid 
in  Pearl  River,  N.Y,  where  he  was  adminis- 
trative director  of  research,  hi  1948,  he  was 
named  director  of  research  of  Lederle  Labora- 
tories, including  the  pharmaceutical  and  me- 
dicinal research.  He  retired  in  1973. 

Dr.  Williams  participated  in  and  contrib- 
uted to  the  development  of  sulfa  drugs,  folic 
acid,  and  Aureomycin,  among  many  other 
life-saving  products.  He  is  credited  with  hav- 
ing named  the  drug,  Aureomycin. 

In  1945,  he  was  chosen  as  one  of  200  top 
U.S.  scientists  by  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff  to 
study  conditions  in  the  chemical  and  pharma- 
ceutical industries  in  Europe  immediately  fol- 
lowing World  War  H.  For  this  service,  he  was 
awarded  a  Certificate  of  Appreciation  by  the 
U.S.  Army  in  recognition  of  his  accomplish- 
ments as  a  technical  observer. 

In  1958,  Dr.  Williams  was  awarded  a 
Certificate  of  Appreciation  for  his  assistance 
with  the  American  program  for  the  Brussels 
Universal  and  International  Exhibition  held 
that  year  in  Belgium.  The  award,  presented 
by  the  U.S.  Commissioner  General  of  the  Ex- 
hibit, particularly  cited  him  for  his  arrange- 
ment, organization,  and  direction  of  the 
displays  and  backgroimd  material  featuring 
achievements  on  behalf  of  the  U.S.  pharma- 
ceutical industry. 

He  was  a  life  fellow  in  the  New  York 
Academy  of  Sciences,  a  fellow  of  the  Ameri- 
can Institute  of  Chemists,  a  fellow  in  the 
American  Association  for  the  Advancement 
of  Sciences,  and  a  50-year  member  of  the 
American  Chemical  Society. 


The  WPI  journal  /  Fall  1981  /  31 


Dr.  Herman  W.  Dom,  '33,  of  Champaign,  Illi- 
nois passed  away  on  June  11,  1981. 

He  was  bom  on  Sept.  14,  1911  in  New 
York  City.  After  studying  chemistry  at  WPI, 
he  later  received  his  AB,  MA,  and  PhD  from 
Clark  University.  He  was  a  post-doctorate  fel- 
low in  biochemical  engineering  at  the  State 
University  of  Iowa  in  1943-44. 

During  his  career,  he  was  associated  with 
International  Minerals  &  Chemical  Corp., 
Owens-Illinois  Glass  Co.,  h^in,  Neisler  & 
Co.,  Picttire  Craft  Co.,  and  the  U.S.  Army 
Chemical  Research  &.  Development  Labs. 
Also,  he  was  employed  by  Lanpar  Company 
and  Parmae  Labs,  Mills  Pharmaceuticals, 
Physicians'  Medical  Laboratory,  Inc.,  and 
Glencoe  Research.  For  a  number  of  years,  he 
was  president  of  his  own  company,  Dom  &. 
Co.,  St.  Louis,  Mo.  (food  and  drug  consul- 
tants). 

A  registered,  professional  chemical  engi- 
neer, Dr.  Dom  was  a  fellow  of  the  American 
Association  for  the  Advancement  of  Science, 
the  American  Institute  of  Chemists,  and  the 
New  York  Academy  of  Sciences.  He  was  also 
hsted  in  a  number  of  Who's  Who  publica- 
tions. He  had  served  as  president  of  the  Fro- 
zen Food  Institute  of  New  York  City  and 
belonged  to  numerous  professional  societies. 

Edmund  M.  Fenner,  '38,  who  officially  retired 
from  lohns-Manville  in  January,  died  in  Den- 
ver, Colorado  on  April  4,  1981,  following  a 
long  illness. 

With  the  company  since  1940,  he  retired 
as  director  of  the  Department  of  Environmen- 
tal Control,  hi  1949,  after  four  years'  service 
with  the  Navy,  where  he  rose  to  Lt.  Com- 
mander, he  was  promoted  to  chief  of  JM's  Re- 
search Mechanical  Section.  In  1962,  he 
became  project  manager  in  the  Plant  Engi- 
neering Department,  a  post  he  held  until  his 
final  appointment. 

Mr.  Fenner  was  a  registered  professional 
engineer  in  New  Jersey.  He  was  a  member  of 
Theta  Chi,  and  was  bom  on  Jan.  4,  1916  in 
Orange,  N.J.  In  1938,  he  graduated  as  a  me- 
chanical engineer  from  WPI. 


Robert  H.  Field,  '38,  president  of  Field  Con- 
crete Pipe  Co.,  Inc.  and  a  civic  leader,  died 
unexpectedly  on  July  26,  1981  at  his  home  in 
Brooklyn,  Connecticut.  He  was  66. 

Bom  in  Brooklyn  on  July  1,  1915,  he  be- 
came a  member  of  the  Class  of  1938.  During 
his  lifetime,  he  was  with  Wickwire  Spencer 
Steel,  and  the  American  Thermos  Bottle 
Company,  prior  to  founding  Field  Concrete 
Pipe  Co.,  Inc.,  Wauregan,  Conn.,  about  25 
years  ago.  The  company  also  has  plants  in 
Rhode  Island  and  New  Hampshire. 

He  was  a  former  director  and  president  of 
the  American  Concrete  Pipe  Association,  and 
chairman  of  the  American  Society  of  Testing 
Metals.  Previously,  he  was  president  and  di- 
rector of  Day  Kimball  Hospital  in  Putnam, 
and  chairman  of  its  building  and  planning 
committees.  He  founded  the  Mortlake  Fire 
Company.  Active  with  the  Boy  Scouts,  he 
also  had  served  on  the  Brooklyn  Board  of 
Finance. 

Mr.  Field  belonged  to  PSK.  He  had  been  a 
member  of  the  President's  Advisory  Council 
at  WPI  and  had  been  involved  in  several  WPI 
ftmd  raising  programs. 

Morey  L.  Hodgman,  '50,  died  in  Westwood, 
New  Jersey  on  March  23,  1981. 

His  employers  included  Garden  Turn, 
Long  Island,  N.Y.;  Chance- Vought,  Dallas, 
Texas;  and  Bendix  Aviation  Corp.,  Teterboro, 
N.J.  He  belonged  to  SPE.  During  World  War 
n,  he  served  as  a  pilot  with  the  U.S.  Army  Air 
Force. 

A  native  of  Richmond  Hill,  N.Y.,  he  was 
bom  on  Jtme  27,  1920.  hi  1950,  he  graduated 
as  a  mechanical  engineer  from  WPI. 

J.  R.  Normand  Casaubon,  '55,  a  retired  elec- 
trical engineer  for  the  New  England  Tele- 
phone Co.,  died  July  2,  1981  at  his  home  in 
Wellesley,  Massachusetts  at  the  age  of  49. 

He  was  bom  on  Jan.  11,  1932  in 
Southbridge,  Mass.  In  1955  he  received  his 
BSEE  from  WPI.  He  had  been  employed  by 
Bell  Telephone  Co.  of  New  Jersey,  AT&.T,  and 
New  England  Telephone.  His  posts  included 
that  of  business  research  analyst  and  assistant 
engineering  manager. 

George  E.  Hammond,  '64,  passed  away  in 
Plymouth,  Massachu.sctts  on  July  18,  1980. 

In  1964,  he  graduated  with  his  BS  in 
physics  from  WPI.  He  received  his  MS  degree 
from  Northeasiem  University  in  1967.  He 
was  bom  on  April  13,  1942  in  Worcester. 


32  /  Fall  1981  /  The  WPI  loumal 


WPI  winter  sports  schedule 


BASKETBALL 

TRACK 

Alumni 

Dec.  2 
Dec.  4CI 
Dec.  4-5CI 

Wesleyan 

City  tournament 

Nichols,  Clark,  Worcester  State 

Dec.  2 
Dec.  6 
Feb.  10 

Tufts 
MIT 
Worcester  State,  Holy  Cross 

Basketball 

Dec.  lOri 

Thomas 

•«-¥-«                 f 

Dec.  12CI 

Bowdoin 

hhaht 

Dec.  15 

Amherst 

1  \1XJ-L  L 

Dec.  191*1 

St.  loseph's 

^m^                                                             ^ 

Ian.  9 

Springfield 

X  /I f"!  7 TVl /IT 7 

Jan.  12 

Babson 

SWIMMING 

ouiuiuciy 

Jan.  15 

Middlebury 

y^ 

Ian.  16 

Norwich 

Dec.  1 

Babson 

t/ />  K^f*f  "f /^TT T    /^ 

Ian.  21|'| 

Connecticut  College 

Dec.  40 

Holy  Cross 

rt^UIuury  O 

Ian.  23C) 

Bates 

Dec.  9(*) 

Boston  College 

•^ 

Ian.  28r) 

Brandeis 

Dec.  11 

Clark 

Ian.  30C) 

Lowell 

Jan.  23 

Lowell 

/  '/''~7T\ 

Feb.  2 

Trinity 

Ian.  30 

Coast  Guard 

h)(  0  ) 

Feb.  50 

Coast  Guard 

Feb.  40 

Trinity 

L;v_vLy 

Feb.  6C) 

Colby 

Feb.  6 

Southeastern  Massachusetts 

Feb.  IOC) 

Williams 

Feb.  11 

Brandeis 

Feb.  13 

Tufts 

Feb.  13(*) 

Tufts 

Feb.  18 

MIT 

Feb.  20O 

Keene  State 

Feg.  200 

Suffolk 

Feb.  230 

Nichols 

Feb.  27 

Clark 

WRESTLING 

Dec.  20 

Bowdoin 

WOMEN'S  BASKETBALL 

Dec.  80 

Boston  College 

Dec.  120 

Harvard,  New  Hampshire,  Mass  Maritime 

Dec.  lO 

Framingham  State 

Dec.  16 

Brown 

Dec.  4 

City  tournament 

Ian.  16 

Williams,  RPl 

Dec.  5 

Clark,  Holy  Cross,  Worcester  State 

Ian.  20 

Amherst,  Union 

Dec.  7 

Merrimack 

Ian.  25 

Western  New  England 

Dec.  lOO 

Connecticut  College 

Jan.  30O 

Lowell 

Dec.  120 

Emmanuel 

Feb.  3 

MIT 

Dec.  14 

Western  New  England 

Feb.  6 

Wesleyan,  Hartford 

Ian    10 

Fitchburg  State 

Feb.  90 

Coast  Guard 

Ian  21 

Gordon 

Feb.  16 

Trinity 

Ian,  230 

MIT 

Feb.  18 

NECCWA  tournament 

Ian   25 

Coast  Guard 

Feb.  25 

NCAA  Division  in  tournament 

Ian.  270 

Anna  Maria 

jan   29 

Trinity 

Feb.  lO 

Suffolk 

Feb.  20 

Wheaton 

Feb  S 

North  Adams 

Feb  6 

RI'I 

O  indicates  a  home  game.  For  more 

informa- 

Feb   10 

Brandeis 

tion  on  times  and  places,  please  contact  the 

Feb   120 

Babson 

WPI  Department  of  Physical  Education  and 

Feb   16 

Amherst 

Athletics,  (617)  793-5243. 

Feb.  I80 

Nichols 

Feb  220 

Clark 

Feb  25 

Curry 

Feb  27 

MAIAW  tournament 

Winter  1982 


1 

.  ■  ::: 

/ 

*5 

-i 

> 

i 

An  Editorial 


IN  THE  PAST  DECADE,  there  havc 
been  only  a  few  editorials  of  any 
kind  in  the  pages  of  the  WPI  four- 
nal.  I  wrote  my  first,  by  way  of 
introduction,  for  the  very  first  issue 
I  produced,  Spring  1971.  This  one 
will  be  my  last,  and  its  purpose  is  to 
say  goodbye. 

A  magazine  is  a  strange  thing.  It 
prints  the  work  of  many  people — 
writers  and  photographers,  faculty 
and  staff,  alumni  and  outsiders.  It  is 
shaped  by  the  character  of  its  audi- 
ence and  by  the  nature  of  the  or- 
ganization which  publishes  it.  And 
yet,  if  a  magazine  is  to  be  successful 
from  any  standpoint,  it  also  reflects 
the  character  and  personality  of  its 
editor. 

As  announced  in  the  last  issue 
of  the  Journal  I  have  left  WPI  after 
eleven  years  as  director  of  publica- 
tions. The  new  editor.  Ken  McDon- 
nell, will  introduce  himself  in  due 
course.  I  am  very  conscious,  as  I 
write  this,  not  only  that  am  I  saying 
goodbye  to  my  readers  .  .  .  but  that 
"my"  magazine  is  also  saying  good- 
bye, fournals  to  come  will  surely  be 
different  than  I  could  or  would  pro- 
duce, because  they  will  reflect  the 
presence  of  a  new  editor.  I  wish  him 
well. 

THIS  MAGAZINE  in  your  hand  is 
the  49th  and  last  issue  of  the 
WPI  lournal  on  which  I  have 
served  as  editor.  That's  a  lot  of 
pages,  a  lot  of  stories,  and  a  lot  of 
years.  It  has  been  a  significant  part 
of  my  career  and  of  my  personal  and 
professional  growth. 

During  that  time,  I  have  been 
helped  by  a  great  many  people,  and  I 
would  like  to  express  my  thanks  to 
a  few  of  them  at  this  time: 

to  Roger  Perry,  '45,  WPI  direc- 
tor of  public  relations,  who  was  an 
unfailing  source  of  counsel  and  con- 
solation over  the  years; 


to  Steve  Hebert,  '66,  with 
whom  I  shared  many  a  late-night 
and  weekend  conversation  as  we 
both  worked  strange  and  long 
hours; 

to  Ann  McCrea,  Pat  Korch,  and 
Charlotte  Wharton,  three  capable 
and  delightful  assistants  who 
helped  make  my  work  on  the  Jour- 
nal possible  by  keeping  up  with  so 
many  other  WPI  publications; 

to  Ruth  Trask,  who  has  so  care- 
fully compiled  the  class  notes — 
probably  the  most  important  job  on 
the  magazine,  and  certainly  the 
hardest  as  well; 

to  Ralph  Kimball  and  the  late 
Bob  Kerr  of  Davis  Press,  who  have 
so  capably  printed  the  Journal  for 
many  years,  often  pulling  the  fat  out 
of  the  fire  at  the  last  minute; 

to  Jim  Reidy  and  Kathy  Swift  at 
CPC,  who  were  so  patient  in  help- 
ing me  implement  the  typesetting 
of  the  Journal  from  word-processing 
equipment,  and  who  never  lost 
their  cool,  even  when  my  instruc- 
tions resulted  in  setting  an  entire 
article  in  36-point  boldface  headline 
type; 

to  the  members  of  the  Alumni 
Publications  Committee  over  the 
years,  particularly  Bob  Gosling,  '68, 
a  member  from  the  first  meeting; 
Larry  Larson,  '22,  an  unfailing  yet 
constructive  critic;  and  Don  Ross, 
'54,  current  chairman  of  the  com- 
mittee and  a  good  man  to  work 
with; 

and  finally,  very  special  thanks 
to  Walter  B.  Dennen,  Jr.,  '51,  first 
chairman  of  the  Alumni  Publica- 
tions Committee,  critic  and  confid- 
ant, who  demanded  from  me  the 
very  best  magazine  I  could  produce, 
and  who  for  so  many  years  was  the 
perfect  liaison  between  the  WPI 
Journal  and  the  WPI  Alumni  Asso- 
ciation. 

IT  WAS  Walter  Dennen  who  pointed 
out  recently  that  the  time  I  came 
to  WPI  and  to  the  Journal  marked 
the  confluence  of  a  great  many 
changes  taking  place  at  WPI  and 
within  the  Alumni  Association. 
The  WPI  Plan  was  being  conceived, 
adopted,  and  implemented,  mark- 
ing a  radical  break  with  educational 


tradition.  Women  undergraduates 
had  been  admitted  to  WPI  for  just  a 
couple  of  years.  The  Alumni  Asso- 
ciation was  in  the  process  of  merger 
with  the  college  administration. 
Many  alumni  were  concerned  over 
the  future  of  the  college  and  of  the 
Association,  and  the  Journal's  im- 
portance as  a  communications  ve- 
hicle was  recognized  by  all. 

The  new  editor — me — was  the 
first  non-alumnus  to  hold  that 
position — and  I  wasn't  even  an  en- 
gineer, either.  Those  differences, 
together  with  the  events  of  the 
times,  helped  put  me  in  the  glare  of 
a  spotlight  that  wasn't  always  fa- 
vorable. The  Alumni  Publications 
Committee  was  formed  in  those 
turbulent  days  to  provide  a  kind  of 
sea  anchor  for  the  Journal  to  help 
keep  it  on  course.  In  the  eleven 
years  since,  the  college  has  pros- 
pered and  gained  a  national  recogni- 
tion unparalleled  in  its  history;  the 
Alumni  Association  has  also  pros- 
pered, with  increased  activities  and 
participation  by  alumni,  and 
record-setting,  award-winning 
alumni  funds  year  after  year.  As  for 
the  Journal  .  .  .  you  be  the  judge. 

The  WPI  Journal  has  been  a 
source  both  of  frustration  and  of 
pride  for  me.  It  has  called  for  more 
energy,  more  agony,  and  ultimately 
more  creative  inspiration  than  any 
other  part  of  my  career  at  WPI.  I 
have  cursed  its  unrelenting  de- 
mands, issue  by  issue,  and  then  sat 
back  to  take  pride  in  the  finished 
product  and  the  awards  it  won  from 
time  to  time  (though  there  were 
some  real  clunkers  in  there  too,  in 
eleven  years).  It  will  be  a  kind  of 
relief  for  me,  knowing  there  won't 
be  any  more  Journals  to  make  .  .  . 
and  yet  in  many  ways  I'll  miss  it.  It 
has  been  too  big  a  part  of  my  life,  too 
long,  for  things  to  be  otherwise. 

So  goodbye, /onrncj/  readers.  I 
wish  you  well  too. 

-Russell  Kay 


UIPp 


O 


Vol.  85,  No.  3 


Winter  1982 


2    A  Homecoming  for  Atwater  Kent  Laboratories 

A  remarkable  old  building  is  made  even  more  remarkable. 

12    The  alumni  attitudinal  survey:  A  final  report 

Steve  Hebert  discusses  what  you  had  to  say  about  WPI, 
the  Alumni  Association,  and  more. 

15    You  went  to  WPI  to  become  a  doctor? 

Ruth  Trask  examines  the  growing  number  of  WPI 
graduates  who  go  on  to  careers  in  the  medical  professions. 

24     Your  class  and  others 

39     Completed  careers 


Guest  Editor:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Alumni  Information  Editor:  Ruth  S.  Trask 

Typesetting  and  Printing:  Davis  Press,  Inc., 
Worcester,  Mass. 

Alumni  Publications  Committee:  Donald 
E.  Ross,  '54,  chairman;  Robert  C.  Gosling, 
'68;  Sidney  Madwed,  '49;  Samuel  W. 
Mencow,  '37;  Stanley  P.  Negus,  Jr.,  '54; 
Judith  B.  Nitsch,  '75. 


Address  all  correspondence  to  the  Editor, 
The  WPI  Journal,  Worcester  Polytechnic  In- 
stitute, Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609. 
Telephone  (617)  793-5600. 

The  WPI  Journal  is  published  for  the  WPI 
Alumni  Association  by  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute.  Copyright  ©  1982  by 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute.  All  rights 
reserved. 


The  WPI  Journal  (usps  issn  no.  0148-6128)  is 
published  four  times  a  year,  quarterly.  Sec- 
ond Class  postage  paid  at  Worcester,  Mas- 
sachusetts. 


WPI  ALUMNI  ASSOCIATION 

President:  Peter  H.  Horstmann,  '55 

Senior  Vice  President:  Clark  Poland,  '48 

Vice  President:  Harry  W.  Tenney,  Jr.,  '56 

Secretary-Treasurer:  Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President:  JohnH.  McCabe,  '68 

Executive  Committee  members-at-large: 
Philip  B.  Ryan,  '65;  Donald  E.  Ross,  '54; 
Anson  C.  Fyler,  '45;  Henry  P.  Allessio,  '61 

Fund  Board:  Henry  Styskal,  Jr.,  '50,  chair- 
man; Richard  B.  Kennedy,  '65,  vice  chair- 
man; Gerald  Finkle,  '<;7;  Philip  H.  Pud- 

DINGTON,  '59;  RlCHARD  A.  DaVIS,  'S3;  C. 

John  Lindegren,  '39;  John  H.  Tracy,  '52 


sii  \r  Kciscnthal 


2  /  WwtcT  i9H2   The  Wl'l  lournal 


A  Homecoming  for 
Atwater  Kent  Laboratories 


By  Russell  Kay 


THIS  WAS  THE  YEAR,  1 98 1,  when  "Homecoming" 
meant  something  extra  special  for  the  Electrical 
Engineering  and  Computer  Science  departments 
at  WPI.  The  major  event  of  the  day  was  the  official 
rededication  of  Atwater  Kent  Laboratories,  which  had 
been  vacant  for  all  of  1980-8 1  while  being  renovated. 

Featured  speaker  at  the  rededication  ceremonies  on 
Homecoming  Saturday,  October  4,  was  Dr.  Joseph  Ker- 
win,  a  physician  and  NASA  astronaut  who  took  part  in 
the  Skylab  missions.  Dr.  Kerwin,  a  philosophy  graduate 
of  cross-town  neighbor  Holy  Cross,  spoke  of  his  delight 
in  reading  about  WPI's  educational  program,  seeing  it  as 
just  the  sort  of  program  that  this  nation  needed.  Ker- 
win's  remarks  were  delivered  to  an  enthusiastic 
audience — so  large,  ironically,  that  the  ceremonies  had 
to  be  moved  to  Alden  Memorial  Auditorium.  Not  even 
the  refurbished  and  renamed  Hobart  Newell  Lecture 
Hall  in  Atwater  Kent  could  accommodate  the  hundreds 
of  people  who  turned  out. 

The  new  Atwater  Kent 

Atwater  Kent  has  been  changed  dramatically,  both 
inside  and  out.  The  architects  who  masterminded  the 
transformation — Goody,  Clancy  &.  Associates,  Inc.,  of 
Boston — radically  changed  the  inside  and  also  created  a 
brand  new  addition  to  the  building  for  faculty  offices. 
The  addition,  situated  on  what  used  to  be  the  "back 
end"  of  the  building,  facing  Salisbury  Laboratories,  is  a 
striking  piece  of  work.  It  echoes  the  older  two-story- 
high  arched  windows  that  lined  the  original  trolley 
barn,  but  it  makes  them  an  even  stronger  design  ele- 
ment (as  they  play  against  the  modern,  less  embellished 
brickwork)  than  they  were  in  the  original  structure.  The 
sides  of  the  addition,  done  in  square  panels  of  black 
glass,  reflect  dimly  the  ends  of  the  older  section  of  the 
building.  Taken  together,  the  new  and  the  old,  Atwater 
Kent  Laboratory  is  (in  the  author's  opinion)  the  hand- 
somest building  on  the  WPI  campus  except  for  Boynton 
Hall. 


The  WPI  Journal  I  Winter  198213 


The  old  meets  the  new,  above,  as  the 
Atwater  Kent  addition  is  spliced  into 
the  original's  roof.  On  the  facinfi  pa^e, 
the  addition  is  wrapped  up  like  a  gigan- 
tic Christmas  present,  as  work  pro- 
ceeded through  the  winter  on  the  reno- 
vation. 


The  inside  of  the  building  is  a  far  cry  from  the  old 
Atwater  Kent,  which  was,  in  recent  years,  characterized 
by  awkward  large  spaces  that  could  not  always  be  used 
effectively  . .  .  and  by  older,  sometimes  seedy  small 
offices  and  labs  that  also  were  not  as  useful  as  they  could 
have  been.  Remember  that  Atwater  Kent  was  originally 
built  to  handle  the  engineering  of  such  things  as  large 
electric  generators  and  motors — and  the  famous  trolley 
car,  of  course — which  were  extraordinarily  large  pieces 
of  equipment  to  be  housed  and  cared  for. 


i 


4  .  Winter  19H2  '  The  Wl'l  Imirnal 


While  those  motors  and  generators  are  still  an 
important  part  of  the  world  of  electrical  engineering, 
there  has  been  a  significant  impact  on  the  discipline 
made  by  the  electronic  computer  revolution.  Work  in 
the  areas  of  computer  engineering  and  programming, 
control  systems,  instrumentation,  and  communica- 
tions is  centered  around  ever-smaller  pieces  of  equip- 
ment, down  to  the  fingernail-size  integrated  circuits 
and  microprocessors  that  run  everything  from  digital 
watches,  stereo  radios,  and  auto  ignitions  (shades  of  A. 
Atwater  Kent's  days!)  to  spacecraft  control  and  satellite 
monitoring  systems.  The  new  Atwater  Kent  takes  full 
advantage  of  these  trends  to  offer  a  variety  of  medium- 
scale  laboratories  for  the  study  of  modern-day  electrical 
engineering  and  computer  science. 

For  EE,  Homecoming  8 1  marked  the  return  to  a 
modernized,  more  effective  version  of  the  home  they 
had  occupied  for  73  years.  For  Computer  Science,  Atwa- 
ter Kent  is  the  first  real  home  they  have  ever  had,  from 
their  start  in  makeshift  quarters  in  the  basement  of 
Salisbury,  then  to  makeshift  quarters  in  Higgins 
Laboratories,  then  to  the  second  floor  of  Washburn.  This 
rapidly  growing  department  finally  has  room  for  its 


people  and  room  in  which  to  develop  effective  labora- 
tory work.  (And  the  recent  arrival  of  a  Data  General 
MV/8000  32-bit  computer,  a  gift  from  the  manufacturer, 
will  add  significantly  to  that  laboratory  capability,  too.) 

Atwater  Kent  was  a  priority  goal  of  WPI's  current 
Capital  Program,  which  seeks  to  raise  $16  million  in 
new  capital  resources,  chiefly  to  provide  physical 
facilities  commensurate  with  the  quality  of  WPI's  cur- 
riculum. Major  contributors  to  the  Atwater  Kent  project 
included  the  George  I.  Alden  Trust,  the  Kresge  Founda- 
tion, WPI  trustees  and  others,  the  classes  of  1929,  1930, 
1941,  1954,  and  1955,  plus  numerous  friends  in  the 
corporate  and  industrial  community. 

Noting  the  exemplary  generosity  of  corporate  and 
business  donors,  campaign  chairman  Raymond  J.  For- 
key,  '40,  said  that  members  of  his  committee  were 
enthusiastically  received  by  most  corporate  executives, 
who  expressed  their  universally  high  regard  for  WPI 
graduates  employed  by  their  companies.  Most  of  them 
indicated  that  WPI's  excellent  reputation  was  a  signifi- 
cant factor  in  their  decisions  to  support  the  Atwater 
Kent  renovation. 


The  WPI  Journal  I  Winter  198215 


IJH     • 
II     • 


A  historical  perspective 

Atwater  Kent  Laboratories  is  an  important  part  of  the 
WPI  campus.  Only  Boynton,  Washburn,  and  SaHsbury 
are  older. 

Shortly  after  the  turn  of  the  century,  The  Worcester 
Magazine  reported  that  "the  trustees  of  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute  have  recently  taken  a  most  impor- 
tant step  in  deciding  upon  the  immediate  erection  of  a 
new  building  to  be  used  exclusively  for  electrical  en- 
gineering purposes." 

The  decision  came  none  too  soon  for  the  faculty  of 
the  young  department,  which  had  started  as  a  branch  of 
the  Physics  Department  in  1897  and  soon  found  itself 
caught  between  burgeoning  enrollments  and  inade- 
quate facilities.  By  1905,  the  number  of  students  major- 
ing in  electrical  engineering  equalled  the  total  number 
m  all  other  departments,  and  the  faculty  was  sub- 
sequently forced  to  "limit"  the  number  of  departmental 
course  offerings.  In  the  same  year.  Professor  Harold  B. 
Smith  wrote  a  dramatic  report  to  Institute  President 
Edmund  Engler  in  which  he  suggested  that  "complete 
strangulation"  of  his  young  department  was  imminent. 

"It  IS  my  hope,"  he  wrote,  "that  the  first  decade  of 
this  department  may  be  closed  by  the  dedication  of  a 
suitable  building  and  equipment  for  the  work  of  this 
department." 

Fortunately  for  him  (and  for  WPI  today),  that  hope 
was  fulfilled.  The  Institute's  1907  Commencement 
exercises  were  held  in  the  new  (and  nameless)  building, 
which  was  constructed  in  the  shape  of  a  symbolic  "E". 
Faculty,  students,  and  visitors  enthusiastically  pro- 
claimed the  new  facility  "the  largest  and  best  in  the 
world." 

It  was  built  at  a  cost  of  $  1 2.S,000. 


THE  NEW  electrical  engineering  laboratory  was  a 
genuine  showplace  of  its  era.  It  housed  the  most 
modem  equipment  of  the  day — a  traveling  crane; 
balconies  of  dynamos  and  motors;  and,  best  of  all,  a  40 
foot  trolley  car  named  "1907".  This  car  was  fully 
equipped  to  test  speed,  voltage,  current,  and  resistance 
automatically,  along  with  a  variety  of  other  tasks.  The 
"Tech  Trolley"  eventually  tested  nearly  4,000  miles  of 
New  England's  extensive  network  of  electric  railways 
before  it  was  scrapped  in  1937.  Until  then,  probably  no 
piece  of  laboratory  equipment  had  ever  been  so 
valuable — or  so  much  fun — for  students  and  faculty 
alike. 

Carefully  planned  and  handsomely  equipped,  the 
new  laboratories  fulfilled  the  fondest  hopes  of  Professor 
Smith  and  his  colleagues.  Designed  for  the  large  space 
requirements  of  that  era's  electrical  and  power 
technologies,  it  served  the  college's  needs  adequately 
for  50  years.  In  1958,  work  began  on  extensive  renova- 
tions which  provided  more  than  7,000  square  feet  of 
additional  space  for  laboratories  in  the  emerging  fields 
of  electronics,  computers,  servomechanisms,  micro- 
waves, and  high  frequency  circuits. 

When  the  building  was  reopened  in  1959,  two  new 
floors  had  been  added  in  the  open  space  above  the  old 
electrical  machinery  laboratory;  there  was  laboratory 
space  that  would  eventually  house  WPI's  first  educa- 
tional computer;  faculty  offices  had  been  altered  and 
redecorated,  classrooms  modernized,  all  new  heating, 
lighting  and  ventilation  installed;  and  there  was  a  new 
entrance  on  the  south  side  of  the  building,  facing  the 
main  campus.  Honored  guest  at  the  ceremonies  of  the 
day  was  A.  Atwater  Kent  Jr.,  son  of  the  benefactor  whose 
generosity  had  made  possible  those  sweeping  im- 
provements. 

But  the  changes  made  then  have  been  completely 
overshadowed  by  the  latest  renovation  of  the  building. 
The  total  cost  of  the  remodeling  of  Atwater  Kent  last 
year  was  $3.2  million. 

It  seems  appropriate  to  consider  this  outlay  a  pru- 
dent investment  in  the  future,  much  as  did  the  Insti- 
tute's trustees  who  authorized  construction  of  the  orig- 
inal building  in  1907.  Their  foresight,  conviction,  and 
courage  has  been  more  than  amply  rewarded,  for  WPI 
graduates  have  been  on  the  cutting  edge  of  devel- 
opments which  have  led  to  contemporary  "high 
technology." 

If  we  agree  with  Shakespeare  that  "What's  past  is 
prologue,"  then  the  reopening  of  Atwater  Kent 
Laboratories  may  well  mark  the  start  of  another  era  of 
technological  progress  whose  accomplishments  will 
beggar  the  imagination. 


/S    Winirr  1W2    11)1- WI>1  lournal 


Steve  Rosenthal 


The  WPI  Journal  I  Winter  19H2I7 


An  architect's  perspective 
on  Atwater  Kent 


The  original  1907  "Electrical 

Laboratory,"  with  its  handsome 
facade,  large  arched  windows, 
and  expansive  interior,  presented 
Goody,  Clancy  &.  Associates 
with  a  sound  basis  with  which  to 
satisfy  the  needs  of  WPl's  Com- 
puter Science  and  Electrical  En- 
gineering departments — as  well 
as  a  challenge. 

Over  the  years,  the  need  for 
the  high  open  space  used  in  the 
great  laboratory  for  work  and 
practical  instruction  on  such 
equipment  as  electric  street  rail- 
way cars  and  turbines  dimin- 
ished. So  gradually,  the  space  was 
partially  divided  with  floors  and 
walls  to  create  room  for  newer, 
specialty  areas  such  as  elec- 
tronics and  computers.  When 
WPI  made  the  decision  to  house 
both  Computer  Science  and  Elec- 
trical Engineering  in  this  fine  old 
building,  it  was  obvious  that  it 
would  have  to  be  made  more  effi- 
cient and  that  a  new  addition  of 
several  thousand  square  feet  was 
needed. 

A  major  design  goal  from  the 
beginning  was  to  preserve  the 
character  and  quality  of  the  orig- 
inal Peabody  and  Stearns  build- 
ing. The  north  facade  of  Atwater 
Kent  Laboratories,  facing  Salis- 
bury Street,  marks  a  major  en- 
trance to  the  WPI  campus.  In 
addition,  it  is  laden  with  WPI 
tradition:  in  the  college's  early 
years  the  front  entrance  and 
stairs  were  an  important  meeting 
place  for  students — important 
enough  to  be  held  off-limits  to 
freshmen — and  for  decades  class 
pictures  were  taken  there. 

Working  closely  with  the 
WPI  administration  and  facuhy, 
and  after  numerous  studies. 
Goody,  Clancy  &.  Associates  de- 
veloped a  design  that  placed  the 
new  addition  on  the  south  side  of 
the  building,  creating  a  new  en- 
trance (across  the  building  from 
the  original)  facing  into  the  cam- 
pus and  accessible  to  the  major 


*AA^^^   '^  ^   ^     ^    #% 


flow  of  student  traffic.  The  brick 
window  arches  along  the  length 
of  the  building  were  retained  as 
interior  corridor  walls,  and  the 
rhythm  of  those  two-story-high 
arches  was  echoed  on  the  ex- 
terior, in  more  contemporary 
form,  as  part  of  a  new  masonry 
wall  pulled  out  from  the  existing 
building  and  enclosing  the 
addition. 

Faculty  offices  were  pro- 
vided in  the  new  space  adjacent 
to  the  labs  in  the  existing  build- 
ing, allowing  closer  supervision 
of  student  projects.  The  third 
floor  was  more  efficiently  used, 
vdth  additional  laboratory  and 
office  space  placed  beneath  a 
new,  raised  roof.  To  facilitate  fu- 
ture changes  and  maintenance, 
service  ducts,  pipes,  conduits, 
and  equipment  were  left  exposed 
and  accessible.  The  entire  build- 
ing was  made  energy-efficient, 
with  careful  attention  being 
given  to  the  new  thermal  win- 
dows, both  in  the  addition  and 
the  old  building,  to  ensure  their 
aesthetic  compatibility. 

GC&A  is  proud  of  the  result- 
ing design  of  the  new  Atwater 
Kent  Laboratories,  which  has 
preserved  its  architectural  heri- 
tage while  bringing  it  up-to-date, 
creating  a  pleasant  and  efficient 
environment  for  the  continua- 
tion of  WPI's  high  educational 
standards  for  many  years  to 
come. 

-Goody,  Clancy  &) 

Associates,  Inc. 

Boston,  Massachusetts 


Steve  Rosenthal 


Steve  Rosenthal 


Above,  the  student  lounge,  highlighted 
by  the  old  power  distribution  panel,  no 
longer  used  for  its  original  purpose  but 
still  effectively  tying  the  building  to  its 
past.  Also  contributing  to  the  feeling  of 
the  old  building  are  the  second-floor 
arches,  once  window  tops.  On  the  fac- 
ing page,  two  more  aspects  of  Atwater 
Kent:  faculty  offices  and  laboratories. 


H  I  Winter  I9H2    The  Wl'l  lournal 


;% 


i 


mi 


At  left,  Henry  Styskal,  Jr.,  '50  waves  the 
CASE-U.S.  Steel  award  (that's  three  in 
a  row), to  an  appreciative  crowd  at  the 
Homecoming  football  game,  while 
university  relations  vice  president  Tom 
Denney  congratulates  him  for  the 
award-winning  Alumni  Fund. 


jL.__£. 


At  top,  Harold  S.  Black,  '21,  inventor  of 
the  negative  feedback  concept  and 
honorary  chairman  of  the  rededication 
festivities,  unveils  the  plaque  with 
Raymond  f .  Forkey,  '40,  chairman  of 
the  Capital  Program  which  raised 
funds  for  the  renovation.  At  right  top. 
Dr.  Black  is  shown  along  with  retired 
EE  Professor  Hobart  Newell,  who  was 
responsible  for  introducing  electronics 
into  WPPs  EE  curriculum  and  after 
whom  the  Atwater  Kent  lecture  hall  is 
named,  and  Prof essor  Donald  Eteson. 
At  left  and  above,  NASA  astronaut  Dr. 
Joseph  Kerwin  addresses  the  audience 
of  alumni  and  students. 


The  WPI  Journal  I  Winter  19H2  I  U 


The  alumni  attitudinal  survey: 
A  final  report 


By  Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66 

In  the  Summer  1981  issue  of  the 
Journal,  a  preliminary  report  sum- 
marized statistical  results  of  the 
Alumni  Attitudinal  Survey  directed 
by  Paul  Kennedy,  '67,  and  Jack 
McCabe,  '68.  Since  then,  the  writ- 
ten comments  have  been  sum- 
marized and  they  have  added  depth 
and  breadth  to  the  statistical  re- 
sponses. 

By  definition  and  necessity,  a 
significant  portion  of  the  com- 
munication for  WPI's  alumni  pro- 
gram is  through  the  mail.  Thus,  one 
of  the  early  questions  in  the  survey 
focused  on  an  evaluation  of  the 
quality,  quantity,  and  effectiveness 
of  that  mail.  Approximately  800 
people  responded  v/ith  written 
comments.  Many  thought  the 
quantity  was  appropriate,  although 
one  person  said  it  could  be  cut  in 
half,  and  a  few  people  even 
suggested  it  could  be  increased.  In 
terms  of  quality,  there  were  a  few 
superior  comments,  while  most 
rated  the  quality  of  the  publications 
as  good  to  excellent. 

Several  alumni  felt  there  is  too 
much  fund-raising  material,  and 
these  comments  correlated  well 
with  the  statistical  results.  Some 
people  felt  that  50  to  75  percent  of 
all  WPI  mail  asks  for  a  gift.  To  the 
contrary,  approximately  75  percent 
of  all  WPI  mail  to  alumni  is  non- 
fund-raising  in  its  purpose,  includ- 
ing the  loLirnal  and  Newsbriefs. 


Some  100  people  commented 
on  the  Journal.  About  half  said  it 
was  excellent  but  the  other  half 
appealed  for  a  broadening  of  the 
scope  of  the  quarterly  magazine.  In 
general,  the  comments  were  posi- 
tive and  constructive  such  as:  "[I] 
would  appreciate  more  in-depth  re- 
porting on  faculty  activity  and 
alumni  actions,"  while  on  the  other 
side  of  the  coin  was  the  comment 
that  "communications  show  a  lack 
of  sensitivity."  That  last  statement 
targets  an  area  we  must  work  on. 

The  survey  was  originally  con- 
ceived to  determine  alumni  at- 
titudes and  impressions  with  the 
hope  that  the  alumni  programs — 
and  perhaps  the  operations  of 
WPI — could  be  improved  as  a  result. 
Thus,  a  question  about  how  WPI 
could  improve  its  alumni  relations 
was  logical.  Two  major  ideas 
emerged.  A  surprising  response — 
surprising  at  least  to  Alumni  Asso- 
ciation officers  and  staff  people — 
was  that  regional  programs  and  ac- 
tivities should  be  improved  and  ex- 
panded upon.  In  recent  years,  re- 
gional activities  have  tended  to  be 
somewhat  informal,  but  it  seems 
clear  from  the  response  that  there  is 
renewed  interest  in  this  area.  Thus, 
we  have  already  taken  steps  to  fos- 
ter and  promote  the  regional  club 
program.  Only  time  will  tell  if  the 
response  will  justify  the  renewed 
emphasis,  but  initial  indications  are 
very  positive. 

A  greater  concern  than  the  re- 
gional alumni  program  was  the  de- 
sire of  a  large  segment  of  our  re- 
spondents that  WPI  should  be  more 


widely  recognized  by  the  general 
public.  There  was  a  strong  expres- 
sion of  desire  to  expand  and  im- 
prove the  WPI  public  relations  pro- 
gram to  place  WPI's  name  in  front  of 
more  people  with  greater  frequency. 
This  would,  at  least  partially,  an- 
swer the  question  heard  so  fre- 
quently outside  New  England: 
What's  WPI?"  It  is  clear  from  the 
survey  that  our  alumni  are  very 
proud  of  their  Alma  Mater,  they 
want  WPI  to  be  recognized,  and  they 
believe  WPI  as  an  institution  should 
be  known  and  respected  by  a 
broader  spectrum  of  the  general 
public.  Thus,  an  effort  is  underway 
to  enhance  the  public  image  of  WPI 
and  its  alumni. 

Along  the  lines  of  improving 
the  image  and  profile  of  WPI,  one 
person  responded  that  there  is  "a 
need  to  build  loyalty  in  the  current 
student  body  in  the  hope  that  the 
investment  will  pay  off  in  a  few 
years."  Similarly,  "wider  press 
coverage — i.e.,  national  news  and 
business  magazines — is  especially 
important  in  telling  alumni  (and 
non-alumni,  too)  about  the  unique- 
ness and  excellence  of  the  WPI 
Plan."  Others:  "Stimulate  and  re- 
port local/regional  clubs — provide 
programs  on  current  activities  on 
the  Hill  and  tie  in  with  Alumni 
Admissions  recruiting.  (Make]  a 
special  effort  to  involve  recent 
grads."  One  person  said,  "some 
years  ago  I  complained  that  WPI 


«0  /  U/.n>«>    lOUO  I  TUt,  \A/I>I  l/wirn^/ 


lack  McCabe,  '68,  and  Paul  Kennedy,  '67,  pore  over  survey  questionnaires  and  computer  printouts. 


was  generating  high  quality  'tech- 
nicians,' not  engineers.  The  Plan 
bias  gone  [a  long  way]  toward  im- 
proving that  situation,  but  I  believe 
more  can  be  done  . .  .  Alumni  are  a 
powerful  source  of  well-informed 
help.  Exploit  us!"  Finally,  someone 
said,  "increase  personal  letters  from 
the  President  to  alumni."  It  was 
clear  from  the  responses  that 
alumni  want  to  be  involved,  they 
want  to  know  what's  going  on,  and 
they  want  their  Alma  Mater  to  be 
appropriately  recognized  by  every- 
one. 

Another  item  that  surfaced  was 
the  expressed  desire  to  know  more 
about  individual  alumni.  Expand- 
ing class  notes  m  the  fournal  and  a 
new  issue  of  the  Alumni  Directory 
were  popular  suggestions. 

The  larger  question  of  the  col- 
lege itself  and  its  perceived 
strengths  and  weaknesses  evoked 
the  largest  response  in  the  ques- 
tionnaire. More  than  two-thirds  of 
all  respondents,  or  over  2,000 
people,  wrote  an  answer  to  this 
question. 


A^      ^ 


Significantly,  respondees  cited 
WPI  strengths  much  more  fre- 
quently than  weaknesses.  Over  half 
of  the  responses  acknowledged 
WPI's  reputation  as  a  basic  strength. 
Another  25  percent  mentioned  the 
quality  of  the  education,  the  dedica- 
tion of  the  faculty,  the  student- 
faculty  ratio,  the  small  size  of  the 
institution,  and  the  WPI  Plan  as 
very  real  strengths.  The  perception 
of  the  Plan  as  a  strength  varied 
somewhat  with  age.  That  might 
normally  be  expected,  since 
younger  graduates  have  actually 
experienced  the  Plan,  while  people 
who  graduated  prior  to  the  1970s 
perceive  it  according  to  what  they 
have  heard  and  read  about  the  Plan, 
or  how  they  have  had  contact  with 
it  through  working  with  Plan 
graduates,  or  by  knowing  someone 
who  studied  under  the  Plan. 


Most  people  who  responded  to 
the  strengths  question  listed  at  least 
two  strengths.  Some  people  actu- 
ally omitted  weaknesses.  However, 
about  one-sixth  of  the  respondents 
mentioned  the  same  point  (the 
largest  single  weakness  cited),  say- 
ing that  WPI  does  not  receive 
enough  recognition,  that  the  school 
is  not  well  enough  known.  This 
response  seemed  more  prevalent 
the  further  people  live  from 
Worcester.  Other  items  suggested 
as  weaknesses  were  the  high  cost  of 
a  WPI  education  today,  athletic 
support,  the  WPI  Plan,  the  size  and 
quality  of  the  graduate  program,  the 
humanities  program,  the  current 
grading  system,  and  social  life  on 
the  WPI  campus. 

Perhaps  the  most  striking  as- 
pect of  these  answers  was  their  sur- 
prising consistency:  there  was  very 
httle  contradiction.  490  people 
thought  the  WPI  Plan  was  a 
strength  sufficient  enough  to  be 
mentioned  by  name,  while  only  75 
individuals  mentioned  the  Plan  as  a 


77?^  WPI  kmrnal    Wmtfr  19H?  I  Hi 


weakness.  Still  another  241  cited  a 
good  curriculum  as  a  WPI  strength. 
If  nothing  else,  this  may  indicate 
the  continuing  need  to  describe  the 
workings  and  philosophy  of  the  WPI 
Plan  to  all  alumni — and  the  general 
populace — so  they  might  better 
evaluate  its  impact  and  effective- 
ness as  the  educational  philosophy 
of  their  Alma  Mater  today. 

Some  comments  from  the 
strengths  and  weaknesses  question 
included,  as  strengths:  "The  educa- 
tional trainmg,  tradition,  faculty, 
expertise  and  career  counseling"; 
"WPI  treats  undergraduates  with  a 
great  deal  of  respect  and  under- 
graduate placement  is  super";  and 
"the  academic  stimulation  poten- 
tial of  the  Plan."  Under  the  weak- 
nesses section,  one  comment  of- 
fered was  "the  way  the  competency 
exam  is  handled."  This  has  been 
recognized  as  a  problem  in  some 
departments  and  has  been  ad- 
dressed and  hopefully  resolved. 
Other  mentioned  weaknesses: 
"The  advisor  system — too  many 
holes  and  cracks  to  fall  through";  "a 
stronger  graduate  program  is 
needed";  and  "improved  promo- 
tional efforts  should  be  made." 
Many  of  the  weaknesses  described 
raise  valid  points,  while  others  re- 
flect situations  which  have  long 
since  been  addressed  and  corrected. 


This  attitudinal  survey  is  only 
a  beginning.  According  to  Paul 
Kennedy,  '67,  "it  gives  us  much  to 
consider  and  evaluate  as  we  deter- 
mine directions  for  the  alumni  pro- 
gram in  the  months  and  years 
ahead.  I  was  extremely  pleased  by 
the  total  response  to  the  program; 
the  3,000  responses  far  exceeded  our 
best  expectations.  We  might  ques- 
tion the  validity  of  these  results, 
because  they  were  so  positive,  but  I 
have  every  reason  to  believe  they 
accurately  reflect  the  views,  opin- 
ions, and  attitudes  of  the  WPI 
alumni  body  in  1981.  We  believe 
that  every  alumnus  who  wanted  to 
had  the  chance  to  respond,  to  air  his 
or  her  views.  We  appreciate  the 
time  everyone  took  to  answer  the 
survey.  We  hope  our  actions  in  re- 
sponse to  your  comments  will  be 
judged  by  everyone  to  be  positive 
and  significant,  and  we  welcome 
your  ongoing  commentary,  input, 
and  advice." 

In  reflecting  upon  the  survey. 
Alumni  Association  President 
Peter  H.  Horstmann,  '55,  indicated 
that  several  steps  have  been  ini- 
tiated to  address  areas  of  concern 
identified  in  the  survey.  Among 
these  steps  is  the  formation  of  two 
task  forces.  One  is  addressing  the 
regional  program  and  its  impact 
throughout  the  country.  That  task 
force  is  chaired  by  Harry  W.  Ten- 
ney,  Jr.  '56,  vice  president  of  the 
WPI  Alumni  Association.  He  ex- 
pects to  present  a  final  report  and 
specific  recommendations  to  the 
March  1982  meeting  of  the  WPI 
Alumni  Council. 

The  area  of  image  and  public 
relations  is  a  much  broader  topic 
and  is  being  addressed  by  a  task 
force  chaired  by  Philip  B.  Ryan,  '65. 
It  is  expected  this  will  take  much 
longer  to  complete  than  will  the 
regional  task  force  assignment. 


However,  their  end  results  may  be 
more  extensive  and  have  a  greater 
impact  for  WPI  over  the  longer 
term.  Said  Mr.  Horstmann,  "I'm  en- 
thused by  the  activity  of  these  two 
groups,  and  I  expect  some  very  posi- 
tive action  from  them.  They  have 
been  meeting  now  for  several 
months,  and  I  look  forward  to  re- 
porting the  results  of  their  activity 
to  all  alumni." 

To  address  the  concern  of 
alumni  to  know  more  about  their 
fellow  alumni,  a  new  edition  of  the 
WPI  Alumni  Directory  is  currently 
being  initiated.  A  questionnaire  to 
verify  biographical  information  on 
file  was  mailed  to  all  alumni  in 
early  January,  and  the  book  will  be 
available  for  distribution  by  June  1. 
The  Directory  will  be  available  for 
sale  to  all  alumni  and  can  be  ordered 
directly  through  the  Alumni  Office 
or  through  the  questionnaire  which 
was  sent  to  each  alumnus. 

Horstmann,  in  conclusioi;!,  said 
that  he  and  the  entire  Association 
Executive  Committee  was  stimu- 
lated by  the  response  of  everyone 
and  he  encouraged  their  continued 
involvement,  interest,  and  partici- 
pation. We're  all  working  to  make 
WPI  a  better  and  stronger  institu- 
tion, and  a  strong  and  active  alumni 
body  is  a  key  ingredient  in  that 
process." 


f/t   I  \A/,r,l..r    lOUO      TU..   \A/ni   //.iirn^/ 


You  went  to  WPI 
to  become  a  doctor? 


By  Ruth  Trask 


FOR  OVER  A  CENTURY,  WPI  has  graduated  engineers 
who  have  helped  keep  the  wheels  of  industry  turn- 
ing; plan  cities,  dams,  and  highways  on  an  interna- 
tional scale;  and  contribute  to  advancements  in  science. 
For  the  last  ten  years,  WPI  has  also  been  graduating 
students  who  entered  the  college  already  knowing  that 
engineering  was  not  their  life  goal,  or  who  changed  their 
minds  along  the  way.  Many  of  these  graduates  ulti- 
mately went  on  to  professional  schools,  and  many  are 
now  doctors,  dentists,  or  veterinarians. 

The  following  article  tells  the  story  of  several  of 
these  graduates  who  marched  to  different  drummers.  It 
also  tells  how  WPI  helped  shape  their  careers. 


WHEN  David  Hubbell,  '73,  first  set  foot  "on 
the  hill"  as  a  freshman,  going  to  medical 
school  was  not  uppermost  in  his  mind.  "I  was 
going  to  be  an  electrical  engineer,"  he  says.  It  was  WPI's 
wide-ranging  curriculum  and  the  advent  of  the  Plan,  he 
believes,  that  eventually  led  him  into  medicine. 

"I  started  out  as  an  electrical  engineering  student 
under  the  old  [pre-Plan]  system,"  he  reports.  "At  the  end 
of  the  first  year,  I  began  to  get  interested  in  biomedical 
engineering,  then  a  new  department  at  WPI.  At  the 
beginning  of  my  junior  year,  I  made  the  decision  to  apply 
to  medical  school.  By  that  time,  I  was  a  WPI  Plan 
participant. 

"It  was  when  I  participated  in  my  major  Plan 
project — sensory  aids  (electronic)  for  the  blind — that  I 
realized  how  much  interest  I  had  in  medicine  in  general, 
an  interest  I  had  not  recognized  before.  If  I  had  been 
stuck  in  a  traditional  engineering  curriculum,  I  would 
not  have  had  the  opportunity  to  make  this  discovery." 

Hubbell  says  the  Plan  was  helpful  in  other  ways. 
The  less  structured  course  selection  allowed  him  the 
freedom  to  quickly  get  the  rest  of  his  premed  require- 
ments out  of  the  way  so  that  he  had  plenty  of  time  to 
apply  to  medical  school.  When  WPI  lacked  premed 
courses  that  he  needed,  he  took  them  at  Clark  and  Holy 
Cross  through  the  Worcester  Consortium. 

"Most  importantly,"  he  explains,  "my  participa- 
tion in  an  engineering  school  and  more  specifically,  the 
unique  aspects  of  the  Plan,  afforded  me  a  definite 
advantage  in  the  medical  school  admissions  game.  I  am 
firmly  convinced  that  with  the  huge  numbers  of  appli- 
cations to  medical  school,  one  needs  a  'gimmick' — a 
way  to  have  one's  application  stand  out  from  the  crowd. 

"Every  place  I  interviewed,  I  was  asked  to  explain 
my  Plan  project  in  detail.  It  was  easy  to  tell  that  the 
interviewers  were  impressed  with  the  Plan  and  with  my 
involvement  in  it.  Satisfactory  performance  at  WPI 
under  the  Plan  means  the  ability  to  operate  indepen- 
dently and  to  work  through  a  real  problem  in  the  real 
world.  Medical  schools,  as  well  as  other  professional 
schools,  look  very  favorably  on  this  concept." 

Once  in  medical  school,  Hubbell  found  the  course 
work  tedious  but  relatively  easy.  He  feels  it  was  easy  for 
him  because  his  scientific  background  at  WPI  "more 
than  stood  up  to  the  test." 


Dave  HubbelL  73 


Hubbell  gives  credit  to  Dr.  Robert  Peura,  '64,  coor- 
dinator of  WPI's  biomedical  engineering  program,  for 
facilitating  his  entrance  into  medical  school.  "He  was 
my  advisor  and  assisted  me  with  my  project,  course 
selection,  and  medical  school  application  process.  I 
have  since  been  associated  with  several  other  colleges 
and  medical  schools,  and  I  can  honestly  say  that  I  have 
not  seen  the  kind  of  personal  attention  and  dedication 
that  WPI's  faculty  demonstrated." 

In  1973,  Hubbell  graduated  from  WPI  with  the  first 
class  to  include  Plan  participants.  In  1977,  he  graduated 
from  Boston  University  School  of  Medicine.  From  1977 
to  1981  he  did  an  internship  and  residency  in  obstetrics 
and  gynecology  m  San  Diego,  Calif.  Currently,  he  is  a 
staff  obstetrician  and  gynecologist  at  the  Naval  Re- 
gional Medical  Center  in  the  Philippines. 

Recapping  the  value  of  his  WPI  premed  experience, 
Dave  Hubbell  says,  "I  feel  that  a  college  should  teach  a 
person  how  to  approach  problems  and  to  work  them 
through  logically  and  creatively.  The  specifics  of  any 
particular  course  are  lost  with  time  unless  they  are 
continually  reinforced.  It  is  not  the  course  material  per 
se  that  IS  important,  but  this  process  of  acquiring  and 
applying  new  knowledge.  I  believe  that  WPI's  program 
affords  a  unique  environment  in  which  this  process  can 
be  mastered.  Given  this  key  to  continued  learning  and 
creative  thinking,  I  believe  that  a  successful  WPI  stu- 


dent is  prepared  for  the  pursuit  of  any  field.  I  believe  that 
WPI's  past  and  future  performance  will  bear  this  out. 

"In  short,  I  would  say  that  a  WPI  education  serves  as 
an  excellent  background  to  the  field  of  medicine,  and  its 
unique  educational  program  can  act  as  a  key  to  open  the 
door." 


RAYMOND  Dunn,  '78,  like  Dave  Hubbell,  believes 
that  the  flexibility  of  the  WPI  curriculum  turned 
him  in  the  direction  of  medical  school. 

"In  retrospect,"  he  says,  "I  feel  that,  had  I  attended 
an  institution  with  a  structured  premed  curriculum,  I 
would  not  have  chosen  to  go  to  medical  school." 

After  discussing  undergraduate  education  with 
several  of  his  colleagues,  he  concludes  that  their  more 
traditional  curriculum  (basic  medical  sciences)  "did  not 
allow  them  other  educational  experiences  which,  I 
believe,  are  more  critical  in  the  long  run  for  the  clinical 
years  in  medical  school  and  subsequent  residency  train- 
ing and  practice." 

Dunn,  who  is  at  Albany  Medical  College,  believes 
that  WPI's  basic  educational  philosophy  forced  him  to 
think  on  his  own  and  mature  as  a  student.  "Independent 
thinking,"  he  comments,  "is  paying  off  now  and  will 
continue  to  do  so." 

He  says  that  his  WPI  advisor  was  very  helpful  with 
his  application  to  medical  school  and  in  outlining  his 
basic  course  requirements,  although  a  few  extra  under- 
graduate courses  might  have  helped  him  during  his  first 
year  at  med  school.  All  in  all,  Raymond  Dunn  is  very 
happy  with  the  preparation  he  received  at  WPI. 

So  is  Dr.  Francis  Kiernan,  '75,  a  senior  resident  in 
internal  medicine  at  Hartford  Hospital,  Hartford,  Conn. 
He  reports,  "I  feel  that  the  rather  concentrated  seven- 
week  courses  under  the  WPI  Plan  are  similar  in  struc- 
ture to  the  courses  at  medical  school,  which  consist  of 
studying  one  particular  area  of  medicine  (i.e.  biology  or 
cardiology,  etc.)  in  a  concentrated  fashion  for  a  few 
weeks." 

Also,  his  school,  the  University  of  Connecticut 
School  of  Medicine,  required  each  student  to  complete  a 
research  project  prior  to  graduation.  "This  project  was 
in  many  respects  similar  to  the  major  qualifying  project 
(MQP)  required  at  WPI." 

Kiernan  did  his  MQP  at  St.  Vincent  Hospital, 
Worcester,  where  he  studied  abnormalities  in  red  blood 
cells  caused  by  an  enzyme  deficiency  and  used  WPI's 
scanning  electron  microscope  (SEM)  to  observe  the 
surface  morphology  of  defective  cells.  He  spent  so  much 
time  with  the  SEM  that  his  project  advisor,  the  associate 
director  of  hematology  at  the  hospital,  once  remarked, 
"Kiernan  has  become  more  proficient  than  I  and  most 
other  faculty  in  its  operation." 

Following  his  current  training  in  internal  medicine 
in  Hartford,  Kiernan  will  begin  a  fellowship  in 
cardiology. 


/6    Winter  l'^H2    The  Wl'l  loinnal 


BESIDES  HuBBELL,  DuNN,  AND  KiERNAN,  there  are 
numerous  other  WPI  graduates  who  have  gone  on 
to  professional  schools  and  careers.  Dr.  Daniel 
Funk,  '11 ,  for  instance,  is  now  a  resident  in  orthopedic 
surgery  at  the  Mayo  Clinic,  Rochester,  Minn.  "My 
interest  in  engineering  continues,  since  this  program 
has  an  outstanding  biomechanics  laboratory  which  spe- 
cializes in  joint  replacement,"  he  says.  Funk  received 
his  MD  from  the  University  of  Cincinnati  in  198 1 . 
Recently  he  returned  from  Switzerland,  where  he 
studied  under  a  surgeon  who  specializes  in  fracture 
fixation  with  implantable  devices. 

He  says  of  his  WPI  premed  background,  "During 
my  first  two  years  of  medical  school,  I  was  unprepared 
for  letter  grades,  fourteen- week  semesters,  and  final 
exams." 

Believing  that  the  study  of  medicine  does  not  stop 
with  the  classroom.  Funk  continues,  "It  is  in  this  regard 
that  the  Plan  has  greatly  helped  me  to  compete  in  the 
professional  world.  Daily  I  have  to  make  decisions  for 
which  there  are  no  answers,  choosing  among  options 
that  aren't  listed  in  a  textbook.  I  use  communication 
skills  constantly,  both  in  presenting  cases  to  colleagues 
and  in  consulting  patients  and  families.  It  is  not  the 
knowledge  of  medicine  which  enables  me  to  'compete' 
in  this  sense,  but  rather  the  way  I  make  decisions  and 
how  efficiently  I  use  my  time.  And  these  are  the  skills 
that  are  intrinsic  to  the  educational  process  of  the  Plan." 
He  says  that,  in  some  respects,  the  preprofessional 
program  at  WPI  is  not  as  adequately  directed  or  financed 
as  it  is  at  some  other  schools.  "This  is  understandable 
when  examined  by  supply-side  economics.  It  is  impos- 
sible for  WPI  to  provide  the  same  backing  for  candidates 
as  those  colleges  which  rely  on  professional  school 
placement  for  a  large  percentage  of  their  graduates.  WPI 


does  not  need  this,  because  the  majority  of  alumni 
establish  immediate  careers  after  graduation;  the  or- 
ganization to  help  those  graduates  seems  active, 
healthy,  and  politically  powerful."  Almost  as  an  after- 
thought he  adds,  "there  are  times  when  I  wish  WPI  had 
an  Old  Boy  network  like  the  Ivy  League  schools." 

One  of  Dan  Funk's  classmates,  Bruce  Minsky,  '11 , 
feels  somewhat  differently  about  WPI's  preprofessional 
setup.  "WPI  is  not  a  premed  factory  like  some  colleges," 
he  says.  "I  like  the  idea  of  its  not  having  a  premed 
committee  to  screen  applicants.  It's  to  the  advantage  of 
the  goal-oriented  individual  not  to  be  prescreened,  not 
to  be  judged  on  an  arbitrary  grade  scale." 

Being  goal-oriented  himself,  Minsky  also  approves 
of  the  more  or  less  unstructured  premed  advising  avail- 
able at  WPI.  "It  gives  the  motivated,  self-starting  stu- 
dent more  options  in  the  end." 

Minsky,  who  has  been  attending  the  University  of 
Massachusetts  Medical  School  in  Worcester,  will  soon 
begin  his  residency  in  radiation  oncology  at  the  Harvard 
Joint  Center  for  Radiation  Therapy,  which  coordinates 
cancer  treatment  for  most  Harvard  teaching  hospitals. 

"Radiation  therapy  is  a  very  technical  field,"  he 
says.  "And  even  though  I  was  a  life  sciences  major,  I 
learned  a  lot  of  physical  principles  by  'osmosis'  at  WPI. 
My  technical  background  has  definitely  helped  me  all 
along  the  line.  For  example,  I  was  recently  involved 
with  the  Massachusetts  General  Hospital  cyclotron 
project  in  which  cancer  patients  receive  proton  beam 
therapy."  He  also  feels  that  WPI's  compact,  seven- week 
terms  forced  him  to  form  good  study  habits  that  have 
carried  over  into  medical  school. 

"One  of  the  most  rewarding  facets  of  my  under- 
graduate education  was  the  project  work,"  he  declares. 
For  one  project,  he  performed  a  transmission  electron 


Bruce  Minsky,  77 


The  WPI  journal  I  Winter  1982117 


microscopy  study  of  urinary  bladder  fusiform  mem- 
brane vesicles  and  their  dependence  upon  urine  concen- 
trating ability.  A  report  of  that  work  was  published  in 
the  Journal  of  Cell  Biology.  In  1977,  another  article 
concerning  summer  research  he  did  in  the  Department 
of  Radiation  Therapy  at  Harvard  Medical  School  ap- 
peared in  an  issue  of  Radiation  Research. 

"Every  medical  school  application  I  filled  out  in- 
quired about  projects  and  publications,"  Minsky  re- 
ports. "At  WPI I  was  privileged  to  have  been  involved 
with  both.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  some  of  the  work  I  did  in 
medical  school  was  based  on  my  early  WPI  papers  and 
projects." 


PAUL  Johnson,  '79,  another  WPI  graduate  at  the 
University  of  Massachusetts  Medical  School 
(UMMS),  says,  "With  so  many  applications,  medi- 
cal school  admission  committees  tend  to  seek  criteria 
with  which  to  distinguish  candidates.  I  feel  that  the 
project-oriented  WPI  curriculum  plus  the  competency, 
exam  gave  me  an  edge  in  the  premed  competition. 
Furthermore,  the  individualized  plan  of  study  stressed 
at  WPI  prepared  me  nicely  for  medical  school  studies. 
Much  of  the  first  two  years  of  basic  science  as  well  as 
present  and  future  clinical  endeavors  is  self-learned. 
Medicine  is  a  continually  evolving  specialty  requiring 
constant  learning  and  review.  WPI  provided  me  with  the 
essence  of  this  self-discipline  and  motivation,  and  I  will 
be  ever  grateful." 

While  at  WPI,  Johnson's  project  work  was  involved 
with  American  literature,  practice  teaching  in  music, 
and  diabetes  research,  the  latter  being  carried  out  with  a 
staff  member  at  the  biochemistry  department  at 
UMMS,  and  Dr.  D.  T.  Browne  (chemistry)  and  Dr.  T.  C. 
Crusberg  (life  sciences)  on  campus.  "Dr.  Crusberg  also 
did  a  superb  job  as  my  premed  advisor,"  he  adds. 

At  the  present  time,  Johnson  is  a  third-year  student 
at  UMMS.  Recently,  he  completed  a  summer  clerkship 
in  anesthesia  at  Massachusetts  General  Hospital.  He 
extended  his  WPI  project  work  on  diabetes  during  his 
freshman  summer  (1980),  and  it  has  just  been  accepted 
for  publication  by  Metabolism .  Earlier,  his  MQP  results 
were  presented  at  the  International  Diabetes  Federation 
Meetings  in  Vienna,  Austria.  "Obviously,  the  research 
experience  offered  at  WPI  has  been  invaluable  in  devel- 
opmg  both  my  scientific  interest  and  clinical  attitude." 


MARK  Mahoney,  MD,  74,  believes  that  going  to 
n  small  college  was  to  his  advantage  because 
at  WPI  individual  attention  is  given  to  stu- 
dents trying  to  get  into  med  school.  "Although  I  may 
have  needed  a  bit  more  guidance  in  course  selection 
from  my  specific  department  advisor,  Dr.  Crusberg  was 
most  helpful  as  my  premed  advisor.  Also,"  he  con- 
tinues, "at  WPI  there  isn't  that  high  degree  of  cutthroat 
rivalry  that  exists  m  colleges  with  larger  premed  pro- 
grams." 


He  feels  that  the  freedom  of  the  Plan  allowed  him  to 
tailor  a  curriculum  that  prepared  him  for  medicine.  "At 
the  same  time,  I  learned  enough  biochemistry  so  that  I 
could  have  gone  on  to  graduate  work,  had  I  not  gotten 
into  medical  school." 

After  graduating  from  the  University  of  Connect- 
icut School  of  Medicine  in  1978,  Mahoney  did  a  three- 
year  family  practice  residency  in  Abington,  Pa.,  just 
outside  of  Philadelphia.  During  his  final  year,  he  served 
as  the  chief  resident.  Since  July,  he  has  been  living  in 
Mattapoisett,  Mass.  and  working  as  the  director  of 
emergency  services  at  Parkwood  Hospital  in  New  Bed- 
ford, as  well  as  the  part-time  campus  physician  at 
Southeastern  Massachusetts  University. 

"In  a  year  or  so  I'll  be  going  into  private  practice 
with  a  friend  in  the  New  Bedford  area." 


CURRENTLY,  Gail  D'Amico,  '79,  is  in  her  first  year 
at  the  Tufts  University  School  of  Veterinary 
Medicine  in  Boston.  Since  competition  for  ad- 
mission to  veterinary  school  is  exceptionally  keen,  her 
preprofessional  advisor  at  WPI  suggested  that  she  begin 
applying  several  years  before  she  actually  planned  to 
enroll. 

Prior  to  her  admittance  to  veterinary  school, 
D'Amico  entered  a  PhD  program  in  pharmacology  at  the 
Mount  Sinai  School  of  Medicine  in  New  York  City, 
where  she  was  an  N.I.H.  trainee.  During  her  second  year 
at  Mount  Sinai,  she  applied  to  Tufts,  where  she  was 
accepted  the  second  time  around. 

She  reports,  "I  regretted  leaving  before  completing 
my  PhD,  but  I  decided  to  enter  Tufts  since  it  was  likely 
to  be  a  once-in-a-lifetime  offer.  Mount  Sinai  graciously 
awarded  me  a  master's  degree  in  pharmacology  and  a 
leave  of  absence  should  I  decide  to  return  at  a  later  date." 

D'Amico  gives  her  WPI  advisors  a  lot  of  credit  for 
guiding  her  into  veterinary  school.  "They  helped  me 
plan  my  undergraduate  program  and  tailor  my  projects 
towards  medicine.  They  compiled  a  composite  pre-vet 
recommendation  from  a  committee  of  12,  which  was 
praised  during  many  of  my  graduate  and  vet  school 
interviews." 

She  found  a  few  drawbacks  with  her  WPI  Plan 
background,  however.  "I  was  at  a  disadvantage  with 
respect  to  my  background  in  premedical  basic  science 
courses,  as  compared  to  other  applicants.  In  this  respect, 
I  do  not  feel  that  seven-week  courses  are  adequate  in 
providing  the  depth  and  amount  of  subject  coverage  that 
most  students  obtain  in  semester-length  courses." 

She  also  had  to  get  used  to  board-type  exams  in  both 
graduate  and  veterinary  schools.  Since  most  of  her 
exams  at  WPI  were  take-home  research  types,  she  was 
unfamiliar  with  the  typical  exams  used  at  most  medical 
schools. 


18  i  Winter  I9H2   The  WI>1  hnirnal 


Gail  D'Amico,  79 


"However/'  she  goes  on  to  explain,  "I  was  able  to 
really  push  the  advantages  of  WPI  in  my  essays,  as  well 
as  in  my  interviews.  I  feel  that  the  individuality  of  my 
program  added  considerably  to  the  strength  of  my 
application.  My  research  projects  were  much  more 
extensive  than  those  of  most  other  applicants,  and  I  was 
already  familiar  with  standard  'protocol'  in  literature 
searches,  as  well  as  with  presentation  of  scientific 
material.  Because  of  this,  I  was  able  to  converse  in  a 
sophisticated  manner  with  my  interviewers  in  many 
related  research  fields,  and  I  was  aware  of  many  current 
problems  facing  medicine  and  basic  science  research." 


Finally,  D'Amico  feels  that  WPI  contributed  to  her 
independence  as  a  student  in  science.  "It  taught  me  how 
to  find  answers,  where  to  find  them,  how  to  contact 
people  who  would  know.  I  consider  this  more  important 
than  rote  memorization  of  course  work,  since  there  is 
such  a  high  probability  of  obsolescence  in  a  fast-paced 
discipline  like  medicine." 


The  Wri  journal  I  Winter  1982119 


I  OHN  Smith,  '76,  is  now  attending  the  State  Univer- 
I  sity  of  New  York  (SUNY)  at  Buffalo  (PhD  1982)  and 
J  SUNY  at  Stony  Brook  (MD  1984).  In  Buffalo,  he  is 
completing  a  doctoral  degree  in  the  Department  of 
Experimental  Therapeutics  at  Roswell  Park  Memorial 
Institute,  the  comprehensive  cancer  institute  of  New 
York  State.  He  has  finished  research  on  his  project 
regarding  the  effects  of  cancer  chemotherapeutic  agents 
on  human  immune  responses  and  is  currently  writing 
papers  for  publication  ...  as  well  as  his  doctoral  thesis. 

Smith  says,  "Roswell  Park  receives  approximately 
100  applications  for  its  five  funded  graduate  positions 
each  year.  All  accepted  applicants  must  have  done 
undergraduate  research.  At  WPI,  I  worked  on  two  differ- 
ent projects.  The  first,  with  Dr.  Peura  in  biomedical 
engineering,  studied  the  feasibility  of  impedance 
plethysmography  in  diagnosing  peripheral  vascular  dis- 
ease. On  this  project  I  was  a  member  of  the  clinical 
testing  team  which  interacted  directly  with  the  pa- 
tients." 

His  other  project  involved  the  preparation  of 
human  erythrocyte  vesicles  [small  fragments  of  red 
blood  cell  membrane]  under  the  direction  of  Dr.  Theo- 
dore Crusberg  m  life  sciences.  "This  particular  project 
provided  a  smooth  transition  into  graduate  school,  as  I 
became  involved  in  an  application  of  this  work — the  use 
of  erythrocyte  [red  blood  cell]  vesicles  to  carry  drugs.  I 
found  my  academic  advisor,  the  late  Dr.  Richard 
Beschle,  and  my  project  advisors  very  supportive  of  my 
plans  to  go  on  to  graduate  and  medical  school." 

A  second-year  medical  student  at  Stony  Brook, 
Smith  also  serves  on  the  admissions  committee.  "The 
committee  likes  to  see  evidence  of  interest  m  medicine 
beyond  the  classroom.  This  is  usually  satisfied  by  an 
undergraduate  research  project  and/or  clinical  exposure. 
My  projects  at  WPI  gave  me  both." 

Smith's  present  plans  are  to  complete  a  residency  in 
medicine  following  graduation  and  possibly  to  continue 
on  for  subspecialty  traming.  Eventually  he  hopes  to 
combine  clinical  practice  with  part-time  research 
and/or  teaching. 


ONE  FORMER  WPI  PREl'ROFESSIONAL  STUDENT,  Dr. 
Bruce  Croft,  '7S,  has  branched  out  into  a  unique 
area  of  medical  practice.  He  recently  opened 
offices  in  Worcester  and  Holden  for  the  practice  of 
podiatry,  sports  medicine,  and  surgery  of  the  foot.  He 
graduated  from  the  Illinois  College  of  Podiatric 


Medicine  in  Chicago  and  completed  his  surgical  resi- 
dency at  Edward  J.  Hines  Veterans  Administration 
Hospital,  Chicago,  where  the  hospital's  chief  of  surgery 
appointed  him  senior  podiatric  resident. 

The  author  of  several  articles  regarding  his  spe- 
cialty. Croft  says  it  was  largely  due  to  the  WPI  plan  that 
he  completed  a  fellowship  program  at  Worcester  Foun- 
dation for  Experimental  Biology  in  Shrewsbury. 

"While  working  on  my  MQP,  I  was  offered  a  Junior 
Fellowship  at  the  Foundation,"  he  explains.  "Later  I 
received  a  full  fellowship."  His  experience  at  the  Foun- 
dation led  him  to  a  stronger  interest  in  medicine  and 
finally  to  his  chosen  profession  of  podiatry. 

Bruce  Croft  feels  that  his  WPI  preprof essional  back- 
ground has  been  an  important  stepping  stone  in  his 
medical  career. 

Paul  Chenard,  '79,  believes  that  his  involvement  with 
the  preprofessional  curriculum  at  WPI  was  a  positive 
one.  "My  project  work  resulted  in  my  being  given  much 
more  responsibility  and  independence  in  conducting 
the  research  project  on  which  I  worked  throughout  my 
recent  stay  at  Yale,"  he  reports.  "In  addition,  it  was  easy 
for  me  to  settle  into  the  project-oriented  environment  I 
found  myself  in  there.  ...  I  strongly  believe  that  my 
performance  at  this  research  job  and  the  subsequent 
recommendation  I  received  from  my  employer  influ- 
enced my  being  accepted  to  medical  school." 

At  the  present  time,  Chenard  is  a  medical  student 
at  the  University  of  Connecticut,  where  he  was  ac- 
cepted last  year.  Prior  to  his  acceptance,  he  worked  as  an 
assistant  in  research  in  a  laboratory  at  Yale  University 
School  of  Medicine,  where  he  did  research  in  renal 
physiology.  He  was  hired  as  an  assistant  in  research  at 
Yale  a  month  after  graduating  from  WPI,  and  he  re- 
mained there  until  he  entered  medical  school. 

Chenard  says  that  his  WPI  preprofessional  back- 
ground was  a  definite  plus.  "I  don't  think  I  could  have 
received  better  premed  training  anywhere." 

Brian  Timura,  '78,  agrees.  "WPI  was  extremely 
beneficial,  not  only  in  helping  me  gain  entrance  into 
medical  school,  but  also  in  helping  me  obtain  the  best 
from  my  medical  education." 

Currently,  a  third-year  student  at  Tufts  University 
School  of  Medicine,  he  admits  that  medical  school 
admissions  officers  were  not  always  aware  of  what  WPI 
has  to  offer  the  preprofessional.  Invariably  he  was  asked 
during  his  interviews,  "knowing  in  high  school  that  you 
wanted  to  enter  medical  school,  why  did  you  choose 
WPI  for  your  undergraduate  education?" 

Timura  had  the  answer.  Basically,  he  was  attracted 
to  WPI  because  of  its  unique  curriculum.  "All  three 
projects,  as  well  as  the  competency  exam  were  valuable 
and  challenging,"  he'd  explain.  "The  general  experience 
of  planning  my  own  curriculum,  tailored  to  my  project 
work,  and  not  having  to  choose  courses  to  merely  fulfill 
credit  hours,  as  is  true  in  most  colleges,  was  an  educa- 
tional experience  in  itself." 

Timura  appreciated  his  advisor's  efforts  in  assisting 
[iim  with  his  program  plan.  "He  encouraged  me  to  do  at 


20    Winter  1W2    The  Wl'l  lotirnal 


least  one  project  in  a  hospital  setting.  This  enabled  me 
to  become  familiar  with  physicians  outside  of  the  WPI 
community  and  allowed  me  to  ask  pertinent  questions 
about  gaining  entrance  into  medical  school."  Since  the 
physicians  Brian  worked  with  were  in  academic 
medicine,  associated  with  the  University  of  Mas- 
sachusetts Medical  School,  Timura  was  able  to  get 
first-hand  knowledge  about  medical  education. 

Timura  reveals  that  his  experience  of  taking  the 
competency  exam  at  WPI  has  been  a  decided  asset. 
Much  of  his  work  takes  place  in  hospital  wards,  where 
he  has  to  take  a  history  and  perform  a  physical  exam  on  a 
patient,  and  then,  in  a  limited  amount  of  time,  write  a 
report  and  read  up  on  his  patient's  problems. 

"Because  of  the  limited  time,  I  have  to  be  selective 
in  what  to  read,"  he  reports.  "Then,  I  may  have  to 
present  the  patient's  history  and  physical  to  a  group  of 
physicians.  I  sometimes  have  to  answer  their  questions 
about  the  history  of  the  patient,  as  well  as  questions 
about  his  or  her  diseases.  This  procedure  is  many  ways 
similar  to  taking  and  preparing  for  the  WPI  competency 
exam.  I  am  grateful  that  I  had  that  opportunity  as  an 
undergraduate." 


BESIDES  THE  "hands-on"  EXPERIENCE  gained 
through  the  projects  and  the  competency,  there  are 
many  other  opportunities  for  the  preprofessional 
student  at  WPI,  according  to  Dr.  Theodore  C.  Crusberg 
of  the  Department  of  Life  Sciences,  who  is  the  premedi- 
cal  advisor.  The  student  is  made  aware  right  from  the 
beginning,  that  he  may  pursue  any  degree  program  at 
WPI.  If  necessary,  he  may  take  specific  courses  for 
admission  to  the  professional  school  of  his  choice. 

"There  are  no  hidebound  rules  concerning  majors 
for  the  preprofessional  student  at  WPI,"  Dr.  Crusberg 
says.  "Not  everyone  who  plans  to  go  on  in  the  medical 
field  concentrates  in  chemistry,  biology,  or  the  life 
sciences.  Just  last  year,  for  example,  Nancy  Berube,  '8 1, 
graduated  with  a  degree  in  humanities  (dramatic  litera- 
ture). She  is  now  at  the  University  of  Massachusetts 
Medical  School." 

Generally,  students  planning  a  premedical,  preden- 
tal,  or  preveterinary  education  at  WPI  take  two  courses 
each  in  life  sciences,  physics,  introductory  chemistry, 
organic  chemistry,  English  composition,  and  calculus, 
all  of  which  are  typical  admissions  requirements  at 
most  medical  schools.  Additional  specific  courses,  such 
as  psychology,  biochemistry,  genetics,  embryology,  and 
certain  laboratory  courses  may  be  required  by  various 
medical  schools. 

"Veterinary  schools  may  also  require  that  under- 
graduate students  work  with  both  small  and  large 
animals  in  addition  to  their  normal  college  experience," 
Crusberg  adds.  "We  try  to  let  our  advisees  know  early  on 
just  what  courses  and  experiences  are  necessary  so  they 
can  plan  their  curriculum  accordingly." 


Nancy  Berube,  '81 


^MM     ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 

■ 

I^^HHA   ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^K  4 

^ 

1 

There  are  a  number  of  criteria  used  by  professional 
schools  in  making  admissions  decisions.  "Documenta- 
tion of  scholastic  ability  is  one  important  aspect,"  says 
William  R.  Grogan,  '46,  dean  of  undergraduate  studies 
at  WPI.  "Grades  in  courses  for  sophomore  through 
junior  years  are  most  important,  since  applications  are 
usually  filed  between  the  junior  and  senior  years.  At 
WPI,  preprofessional  students  should  set  a  goal  of  at 
least  50  percent  distinctions  in  grades  for  medical  and 
dental  schools  —  as  a  minimum  effort." 

Although  WPI  does  not  use  a  traditional  grading 
system,  the  registrar,  if  necessary,  will  compute  a 
nationally-recognized  Quality  Point  Average  (Accepta- 
ble =  2.75;  Distinction  =  4.0)  and  forward  it  to  the 
medical,  dental,  or  veterinary  school  to  which  the 
student  applies.  Grades  in  specific  courses,  especially  in 
organic  chemistry,  may  often  be  considered  important 
criteria  by  medical  schools  in  making  a  decision  on  a 
student's  application.  Completion  of  all  preprofessional 
course  requirements  is  advised  during  the  student's  first 
three  years  as  an  undergraduate,  so  that  he  or  she  may 
take  the  standardized  examination  required  of  virtually 
every  applicant  to  professional  school. 


The  WPI  Journal  I  Winter  1982121 


Prof.  Ted  Crusberg 


Another  criterion  by  which  an  aspiring  professional 
is  judged  is  his  or  her  score  on  the  Medical  College 
Admissions  Test  (MCAT);  the  Dental  Aptitude  Test 
(DAT);  the  Veterinary  Aptitude  Test  (VAT);  or  the 
Graduate  Record  Examination  (GRE).  These  tests  are 
the  only  criteria  which  serve  as  common  yardsticks  for 
all  applicants  and,  as  such,  may  be  considered  important 
in  decision-making  by  many  admissions  committees. 

How  do  WPI  students  score  on  these  difficult, 
standardized  tests?  "Remarkably  well,"  comments 
Crusberg.  "I  recently  received  a  summary  of  the  latest 
MCAT  results.  Students  who  earned  their  BS  at  WPI  and 
took  the  test  were  consistently  above  the  national 
average  in  every  single  area:  biology,  chemistry, 
physics,  science  problems,  reading  skills,  and  quantita- 
tive skills.  What  particularly  impresses  me,"  Crusberg 
remarks,  "is  that  the  average  reading  skills  score  is  15 
percent  above  the  national  average,  which  indicates  this 
is  a  very  literate  group  of  young  people.  So  far,  those 
taking  the  test  and  applying  to  medical  schools  have 
been  exemplary." 


22    Winter  I9H2    The  Wl>l  loiirnal 


BESIDES  TESTING,  letters  of  recommendation  are 
another  important  factor  in  the  apphcation  pro- 
cess. During  terms  C  or  D  of  the  junior  year, 
students  meet  with  the  preprofessional  advisor  and 
estabhsh  a  committee  consisting  of  several  faculty. 
This  committee  is  usually  made  up  of  the  academic 
advisor,  the  IQP  advisor,  the  MQP  advisor,  and  the 
sufficiency  advisor.  Also  included  are  other  faculty, 
acquaintances,  and  supervisors  who  have  been  able  to 
observe  the  student  under  a  variety  of  conditions. 

The  number  of  people  serving  as  the  student's 
committee  is  determined  by  the  student.  Off-campus 
people,  including  professionals  (doctors,  dentists,  vet- 
erinarians), may  be  committee  members.  After  deter- 
mining the  committee,  the  preprofessional  advisor  con- 
tacts each  person  directly  and  provides  a  form  on  which 
a  paragraph  or  two  concerning  the  student's  personality, 
motivation,  character,  creativity,  integrity  and  several 
other  qualities  is  written.  From  these  forms  a  final, 
single  letter  of  recommendation  is  generated. 

"These  letters  are  a  prime  element  in  the  admis- 
sions process,"  Crusberg  says.  "They  give  the  profes- 
sional school  admissions  officer  personal  evaluations 
that  don't  show  up  in  the  student's  transcript  or  MCAT 
score." 

The  application  process  itself  is  not  too 
difficult — merely  tedious.  Most  medical  and  dental 
schools  now  demand  that  the  student  apply  through  the 
American  Medical  Colleges  Application  Service  or  the 
American  Association  of  Dental  Schools  Application 
Service.  These  services  permit  a  student  to  make  out  a 
single  application,  report  his  or  her  MCAT  or  DAT 
scores,  and  submit  one  transcript.  That  information  is 
then  sent  to  each  medical  or  dental  school  as  designated 
by  the  student. 

After  reviewing  credentials,  a  professional  school 
may  wish  to  have  the  student  visit  for  an  interview.  The 
interview  is  generally  conducted  by  faculty,  clinicians, 
and  students  of  the  host  school,  and  the  format  can  be 
variable  and  often  unpredictable. 

Crusberg  advises:  "The  student  should  have  several 
experiences  related  to  medicine  such  as  working  as  a 
medical  or  hospital  technician,  or  service  in  a  public 
agency  or  other  relevant  people-oriented  activity  to 
discuss.  Project  efforts,  especially  in  the  area  of 
medicine,  should  also  be  spotlighted." 

Following  the  interview,  the  applicant  may  have  to 
wait  from  a  few  days  to  several  months  before  learning 
of  the  decision  of  the  professional  school  admissions 
committee.  For  almost  everyone,  rejections  far  out- 
number acceptances.  For  every  two  qualified  candi- 
dates, one  is  rejected  in  medicine,  and  there  is  even  a 
smaller  acceptance  rate  at  veterinary  schools.  The  com- 
petition for  dental  schools  is  not  as  intense,  and  the 
chances  of  admission  there  are  better. 


Since  only  one  out  of  two  qualified  applicants  is 
accepted  to  medical  school,  planning  an  alternative 
career  is  essential.  About  70  percent  of  those  from  WPI 
who  receive  the  highest  recommendations  are  accepted 
into  medical  school.  "This  is  why,"  says  Crusberg, 
"each  preprofessional  student  should  be  concerned 
about  other  career  plans,  which  might  include  graduate 
school,  teaching,  or  business." 

The  future  for  seniors  who  are  not  accepted  right 
away  at  medical  school  can  have  a  silver  lining.  Many 
WPI  students  find  that  admission  is  possible  after  two  or 
three  years  of  graduate  school  or  research  activity.  Also, 
a  few  WPI  students  have  entered  foreign  medical 
schools  in  Mexico,  Greece,  Poland,  and  the  Dominican 
Repubhc,  with  the  hope  of  returning  to  the  U.S.  to 
complete  their  clinical  training  or  as  residents  or 
interns. 

"Financial  need  should  not  deter  a  student  from 
obtaining  a  medical  or  dental  education,"  Crusberg 
continues.  "Funds  may  come  through  family  resources, 
loans,  and  scholarships.  More  than  half  of  all  students 
enrolled  in  U.S.  medical  schools  receive  financial  as- 
sistance. There  is  money  available  for  those  wanting  to 
go  into  medicine." 


AND  THOSE  STUDENTS  who  find  their  way  into 
medicine  along  the  preprofessional  route  at  WPI, 
will  discover  that  their  "untraditional"  premed 
background  can  make  them  more  adaptable  to  change. 
Not  only  will  they  have  been  well  versed  in  the  basic 
sciences,  they  will  have  had  to  face  and  master  the 
unpredictables  that  inevitably  crop  up  in  project  work 
and  in  the  competency  exam.  In  a  world  of  expanding 
medical  technologies,  the  WPI  premed  student  turned 
doctor  may  be  less  likely  than  most  to  suffer  from  future 
shock. 

"Technology  is  here  to  stay,"  says  Ted  Crusberg. 
"Ten  years  from  now,  medicine  will  be  profoundly 
changed  by  advancements  in  engineering  and  computer 
science.  I  feel  a  doctor  needs  an  engineering  type  of 
education  to  keep  up  with  the  state  of  the  art." 


The  WPI  jouinal  I  Winter  1982123 


I9i8 


Currently,  George  Gove,  who  is  retired  from 
Behr-Manning  Corp.,  resides  in  Holden, 
Mass.  His  wife,  Helen,  passed  away  in  Au- 
gust. She  was  the  sister  of  the  late  Ned 
Nutter,  '13. 

The  Atwater  Kent  lecture  hall  has  been 
named  the  Newell  Lecture  Hall  as  a  tribute 
to  Professor  Emeritus  Hobart  H.  Newell, 
who  served  on  the  WPI  electrical  engineering 
faculty  from  192 1  to  1965  and,  who  since  his 
retirement,  has  served  as  consultant  to  the 
Alden  Research  Laboratories.  Throughout 
his  professional  career.  Prof.  Newell  was  a 
well-known  consultant  to  radio  stations.  He 
is  credited  with  developing  the  electrical 
engineering  department's  program  in  elec- 
tronics. 


1927 


Charles  Moore  recently  received  a  450-mile 
Red  Cross  certificate  for  swimming  450 
miles  in  Cleveland's  Cudell  Recreation  Cen- 
ter pool.  He  swam  that  distance  in  the  pool 
between  October  of  1971  and  [une  of  1 98 1 . 


1928 


The  John  Driscolls  visited  Bermuda  last  fall. 
While  on  vacation,  they  enjoyed  swimming. 
John  writes:  "Peg  and  I  were  in  the  water 
mommgs  at  eight  to  whet  our  breakfast 
appetites." 

Charley  Durbin  says,  "Looking  forward 
to  'H.3  and  our  55th."  He  and  Sue  exhibited 
antiques  at  16shows  this  year,  down  from  19 
last  year.  "The  economy  is  hurtmg  the  an- 
tique business."  They  did  most  of  their 
traveling  around  the  New  England  States, 
but  did  get  to  the  Heisey  collectors'  conven- 
tion in  Newark,  Ohio  last  June. 

In  addition  to  such  hobbies  as  gardening, 
woodworking,  and  furniture  refinishing, 
Mildred  and  Ted  Englund  continue  to  travel. 
In  I9H0  they  visited  their  son,  Paul,  and  his 
family  in  Nairobi,  Kenya.  "Paul  was  on  loan 


from  the  Johns  Hopkins  Medical  School  at  a 
research  lab  in  Kenya."  While  visiting  their 
son,  the  Englunds  had  an  opportunity  to 
enjoy  several  safaris  "which  turned  out  to  be 
fantastic  experiences."  During  the  past 
summer,  they  spent  several  days  in 
Montreal,  Ottawa,  and  Toronto,  and  con- 
tinued by  train  to  Jasper,  and  through  the 
Canadian  Rockies  to  Glacier  National  Park. 
"A  truly  marvelous  trip!" 

W.  Bigelow  Hall  and  his  wife  are  living 
in  retirement  in  Redington  Beach,  Fla., 
where  "Big"  spends  much  of  his  time  golfing, 
tending  20  rose  plants,  bird  carving,  and 
walking  the  beautiful  gulf  beach  between 
swims.  He  has  served  as  the  head  of  the  local 
civic  association,  as  chairman  of  a  commit- 
tee to  rewrite  the  town  charter,  and  for  the 
past  two  and  a  half  years  as  chairman  of  the 
town  park  board.  "We  summer  in  Winchen- 
don  every  year  or  two.  This  year  we  went  to 
the  canyon  country  in  Arizona  and  Utah." 
The  Halls  have  been  married  for  over  52 
years. 

Frank  King  continues  as  president  of  the 
Massachusetts  Municipal  Wholesale  Elec- 
tric Company  (MMWEC),  and  is  currently 
concerned  with  the  nearly  completed  Stony 
Brook  Intermediate  Project  in  the  Ludlow 
area.  The  first  municipally-owned  power 
plant.  Stony  Brook  is  large  enough  to  light  up 
the  cities  of  Springfield  and  Worcester  com- 
bined and  is  a  milestone  in  New  England's 
electric  power  industry.  It  is  reported  that 
the  plant  will  be  able  to  supply  municipali- 
ties with  power  priced  20  percent  lower  than 
that  from  private  utilities.  King  says  that  the 
plant  will  also  save  New  England  thousands 
of  gallons  of  fuel  because  of  the  efficiency  of 
its  new  combined  cycle  turbines. 

Early  on,  the  plant  came  under  criticism 
when  it  was  learned  that  it  would  be  using 
No.  2  oil,  a  commodity  considered  both 
expensive  and  not  always  plentiful.  King 
noted.  He  pointed  out,  however,  that  the 
plant's  technology  actually  reduces  the 
amount  of  oil  being  used  by  New  England 
utilities  because  of  its  efficiency.  He  esti- 
mated that  for  every  one  percent  conserved 
through  efficiency,  about  $  1  million  is  saved. 

When  the  plant  is  fully  operational  by 
the  end  of  1982,  it  will  be  able  to  provide 
enough  power  to  run  one  million  automatic 
washing  machines,  or  more  than  five  million 
100  watt  light  bulbs.  It  was  dedicated  in 
November  by  Gov.  Edward  J.  King  in  a  cere- 
mony attended  by  a  host  of  dignitaries. 

In  October,  Fred  Knight  rounded  out  ten 
years  of  retirement,  and  says  "have  become 
so  happy  with  it  that  I  don't  miss  my  job  in 
the  least,  much  as  I  enjoyed  it  for  34  years." 
He  and  his  wife  take  part  in  home  town 
activities.  They  escape  from  Coming,  N.Y. 
to  southern  California  for  the  three  worst 
months  of  winter. 

Ralph  Lundberg  has  been  doing  consult- 
ing work  ever  since  he  retired.  He  also  serves 
as  a  volunteer  helping  some  of  the  neigh- 
borhood widows  with  their  house  and  yard 
problems.  He  is  on  the  board  of  directors  of 
his  neighborhood  association  and  is  in  charge 
of  the  neighborhood  road  committee,  which 
IS  responsible  for  keeping  area  roads  in  good 
shape.  Periodically,  he  serves  on  the  night 
watch  in  his  vicinity.  Weather  permitting,  he 
does  a  lot  of  biking,  walking,  swimming, 
golfing,  bowling,  gardening,  and  house  paint- 
ing. He  and  his  wife  have  traveled  to  Scan- 


dinavia, California,  Florida,  and  Bermuda, 
among  other  places.  This  winter,  they  plan  to 
go  to  Florida. 

Andy  Maston  plays  golf  several  times  a 
week.  "But  already,  this  fall,  I've  started 
shoveling  snow.  Three  inches  yesterday. "  He 
also  walks  and  exercises.  He  has  been  in- 
volved for  some  time  with  local  politics,  and 
has  spent  a  few  years  on  the  local  hospital 
board.  He  has  five  children,  with  two  being 
engineers  and  three,  teachers.  A  couple  of 
years  ago  he  served  as  an  Alcoa  consultant  for 
seven  weeks  at  the  same  GE  plant  in 
Pittsfield,  Mass.,  which  his  class  had  visited 
when  he  was  an  EE  student  at  WPI. 

James  McCarthy  sends  his  best  to  all 
who  plan  to  make  the  reunion.  His  wife  is  an 
invalid  and  requires  much  care.  "No  travel 
time  forme." 

Karl  Penney  reports  that  the  following 
class  members  regularly  attend  Tech  Old- 
Timers  meetings:  Ted  Englund,  Karl  Penney, 
Les  Sarty,  Roger  Tarbox,  Chet  Doe,  Forrest 
Nelson,  and  Donald  Reed.  "Gabe  Bedard 
comes  from  Springfield  at  least  once  a  year  to 
check  on  the  treasurer  of  the  1928  55th 
Reunion  Fund." 

Hal  Voigt's  wife,  Helen,  passed  away 
last  September.  In  December,  he  was  slated 
to  leave  Dayton  to  visit  his  daughter  and 
grandchildren  in  Burbank,  Calif.  He  was  also 
planning  to  visit  his  son  and  grandchildren  in 
Portland,  Oregon.  He  hopes  to  attend  the 
55th. 

Winslow  Wentworth  has  just  started  his 
eighth  term  as  president  of  the  Franklin 
County  Home  Care  Corporation  which 
serves  the  26  Franklin  County  towns  and 
four  towns  in  Worcester  County.  In  addition, 
he  is  a  trustee  of  the  Farren  Memorial  Hospi- 
tal, where  he  is  chairman  of  the  building  and 
maintenance  committee. 


1929 


Wayne  Berry  writes  from  Spring  Hill,  Fla. 
that  there  are  so  many  activities  in  his 
apartment  complex  "there  are  no  dull  mo- 
ments." He  serves  as  editor  of  the  Evergreen 
Woods  News,  which  comes  out  once  a 
month.  He  and  his  wife,  Julia,  have  a  one- 
bedroom  apartment  in  the  planned  retire- 
ment community. 

The  couple  enjoys  the  social  and  group 
activities  at  the  retirement  center,  including 
monthly  birthday  parties  and  wedding  an- 
niversaries. (They  celebrated  their  50th  in 
1980.) 

Before  moving  to  Evergreen  Woods, 
Wayne  taught  Sunday  School  at  the 
Methodist  Church.  He  plans  to  resume  some 
teaching  soon  at  the  complex.  His  booklet 
summary  of  Henry  George's  book.  Progress 
and  Poverty,  is  now  in  its  second  printing. 

Until  his  retirement  a  few  years  ago, 
Wayne  was  an  electrical  engineer  at  Under- 
writers Laboratories  for  40  years.  During  his 
last  25  years  with  UL,  he  and  his  wife  were 
volunteer  workers  at  Long  Island's  Nassau 
County  Hospital  for  eight  years,  and  in  1971 
they  received  a  plaque  as  the  hospital's  out- 
standing volunteers.  Wayne  was  awarded  a 
gold  pin  for  1,000  hours  of  service. 


4^4  .  Winter  19H2   The  WPI  lournal 


I930 


Charlotte  and  Charles  Cole  celebrated  their 
golden  wedding  anniversary  on  August  23, 
1981  in  the  same  setting  as  their  marriage  in 
1931  in  HoUiston,  Mass.  The  house,  now  the 
Holliston  Historical  Society,  was  formerly 
the  home  of  the  bride's  family.  Mrs.  Cole 
graduated  from  Mount  Holyoke  College .  Her 
husband  graduated  from  WPI  and  Harvard 
Business  School.  For  many  years  he  was  with 
Standard  Oil  of  New  Jersey.  In  1950  he 
moved  his  family  to  Venezuela  to  become 
head  of  the  Creole  Petroleum  Corp.,  a  sub- 
sidiary of  Standard  Oil  Co.,  now  Exxon.  The 
Coles  have  four  children  and  1 1  grandchil- 
dren. Mrs.  Cole  has  long  been  interested  in 
sculpture  in  stone  and  steel,  oil  painting,  and 
ceramics,  and  has  had  several  one- woman 
shows.  She  is  the  current  wdnner  of  a  first 
place  in  sculpture  at  the  Hyannis  Members' 
Art  Show  and  an  honorable  mention  winner 
in  the  New  England  Show  at  Hyannis.  Her 
husband  was  active  in  church  and  civic  af- 
fairs. Since  his  retirement,  he  has  become  an 
enthusiastic  tennis  player,  woodcarver,  and 
carpenter. 

The  four  daughters  of  Mabel  and  Pete 
Maisaw  held  a  reception  on  August  29,  198 1 
in  Worcester  in  honor  of  their  parents'  50th 
wedding  anniversary.  Over  150  people  at- 
tended the  celebration.  Pete  is  still  doing 
some  consulting  work. 

J.  Lloyd  Richmond  (Jack)  writes  that  he 
was  responsible  for  recruiting  Cookie  Price, 
'30  for  WPI  in  1925.  Both  Jack  and  Cookie 
were  from  West  Palm  Beach,  Fla.  Jack  is  now 
back  in  the  same  function  as  area  chairman 
of  the  Miami  Alumni-Admissions  program. 
He  is  charged  with  overseeing  the  admis- 
sions recruitment  activities  of  Miami 
alumni. 

Dan  O' Grady  and  Carl  Backstrom  repre- 
sented the  Class  of  1930  at  the  dedication  of 
the  new  Atwater  Kent  building  on  Oct.  2, 
1981. 

You  will  recall  that  our  50th  anniversary 
gift  was  to  be  used  for  a  new  classroom  in  this 
building.  A  very  nice  plaque  is  on  the  wall  of 
this  large  second  floor  classroom  marked: 
"Given  by  the  Class  of  1930  on  the  occasion 
of  their  50th  anniversary."  Make  sure  you 
visit  the  new  modem  Atwater  Kent  building 
on  your  next  visit  to  WPI,  and  check  on  our 
room. 

After  our  50th  banquet  in  June  1980,  we 
had  a  few  dollars  left  over  and  they  have  been 
on  deposit  in  the  bank.  Since  the  alumni 
office  will  take  care  of  any  mailing  we  wish 
to  put  out,  I  have  talked  to  Dan  O'Grady  and 
we  decided  to  close  the  account,  and  donate 
the  money  to  the  WPI  alumni  fund  for  1981- 
82.  So,  with  a  little  help  from  Dan  and  me,  we 
will  show  a  $100  gift  to  the  fund  from  our 
class. 
Call  Backstrom,  Class  Secretary-TreasureT 


1931 

Phyllis  and  Al  Demont  were  injured  in  a 
head-on  crash  with  a  car  load  of  teenagers  on 
Sept.  5th,  but  are  recovering  nicely.  Al  suf- 
fered, among  other  things,  five  broken  ribs 
and  multiple  bruises.  He  says,  "Phyllis  was 
bruised  severely,  from  the  seat  belt,  proba- 
bly, but  with  little  doubt  would  have  been 
pitched  through  the  windshield  without  the 
belt."  Both  are  now  home  from  the  hospital. 


1933 


John  Magee  continues  with  his  consulting 
and  research  assignments  with  Elevator  Re- 
search Co.,  New  York  City.  He  holds  four- 
teen elevator  patents. 


1934 


Luther  Leavitt,  who  has  served  as  vice 
chairman  of  Melrnz  Industries  since  1977, 
also  likes  to  create  speeches.  His  "Biggest 
Little  Battle  Bunker  Hill"  has  been  given 
many  times  in  the  New  England  and  Cleve- 
land areas. 

Paul  Sullivan  spends  his  winters  in  En- 
glewood,  Florida  and  his  summers  in  South 
Harwich,  Mass. 


1935 


Alfred  Cantor  owns  Altun  Enterprises  in 
Greenbrae,  San  Rafael,  Calif. 

Guests  may  find  it  a  bit  difficult  to  sleep 
or  even  sit  at  the  home  of  Sue  and  Ted 
McKinley  in  Wilmington,  Delaware.  That's 
because  every  available  inch  of  space  is  filled 
with  McKinley's  retirement  hobby, 
strawflowers  that  he  grows  at  the  back  of  his 
large  plant-filled  yard.  And  35,000  individual 
strawflowers  set  in  white  plastic  tubs  would 
certainly  take  up  plenty  of  room. 

By  the  time  of  the  first  killing  frost, 
McKinley  will  have  picked  more  than 
150,000  flowers  from  nearly  900  plants, 
placed  in  long  rows  and  held  in  place  by  more 
than  three  miles  of  twine. 

McKinley  says  he  got  into  strawflowers 
because  his  wife  was  in  charge  of  flower 
arranging  at  a  nearby  museum.  Now,  what 
started  as  a  hobby,  has  grown  into  a  business 
called  Barley  Mill  Bouquet.  And  what  a  busi- 
ness! His  strawflowers  can  be  found  at 
Longwood  Gardens,  Colonial  Williamsburg, 
and  Old  Sturbridge  Village,  to  name  a  few 
places.  One  Main  Line  flower  arranger  orders 
about  1,500  flowers  a  week. 

Of  some  300  test  plants,  McKinley  has 
18  new  varieties  that  he  is  testing.  He  plans 
to  introduce  six  next  year,  but  they  won't 
appear  on  the  market.  He  wants  to  keep  them 
for  himself. 


The  McKinleys  separate  their  flowers 
into  two  groups,  the  color-coordinated  ones 
and  the  mixed  bouquets,  which  are  sold  to 
various  museums  and  gardens.  Serious 
flower  arrangers  buy  the  former  group,  pay- 
ing up  to  $78  a  thousand,  plus  transportation. 
Most  customers,  however,  pick  them  up  at 
the  McKinleys'.  Along  with  the  strawflow- 
ers, McKinley  raises  German  statice  in 
another  plot  and  harvests  about  300  pounds 
of  this  popular  flower  for  drying. 

Ted  McKinley  retired  as  a  pigments  re- 
search supervisor  for  du  Pont  some  time  ago, 
but  he  never  did  stop  working. 


1936 


Scott  Goodwin  writes  that  he  is  very  busy 
taking  care  of  his  own  place,  helping  build  a 
two-car  garage  for  his  son-in-law,  and  help- 
ing the  Hartford  Insurance  Group  on  a  design 
and  construction  problem.  He  also  works 
with  the  American  Nuclear  Insurance  Co.  on 
occasion. 

Ed  Guild  is  employed  part  time  at  the 
Reynolds  Metals  Co.  fabrication  plant  which 
is  part  of  the  can  division.  The  plant  makes 
equipment  to  manufacture  millions  of  cans 
for  the  beer  and  soft  drink  industries. 


1937 


William  Carew,  president  of  the  Class  of 
1937,  has  been  elected  president  of  the  Na- 
tional Council  of  Engineering  Examiners. 
Also,  he  recently  received  the  NCEE  Distin- 
guished Service  Award. 


1938 


Recently,  Louise  and  Dick  Burke  retumed 
from  a  trip  to  Acapulco,  the  Panama  Canal, 
Columbia,  Santo  Domingo,  BVI,  St.  Thomas, 
and  San  Juan. 

Warren  Spofford  has  retired  as  account 
executive  from  Norton  Co.  and  is  residing  in 
Nashua,  N.H. 


1939 


John  Backes  retired  last  August  from  Water- 
bury  Farrel-Textron  and  currently  lives  in 
Mesa,  Arizona. 

Robert  Hamilton,  former  manager  of 
fleet  sales  for  Mobil  Oil  Corp.,  retired  re- 
cently. He  is  currently  located  in  Bridgton, 
Maine. 

OJ.  Kama  is  a  senior  project  manager  at 
Rust  Engineering  Co.,  Birmingham, 
Alabama. 


The  WPI  Journal  I  mntei  1982125 


I940 


Richard  Mayer  retired  in  August  and  is  now  a 
resident  of  Intervale,  N.H.  He  had  been  a 
purchasing  specialist  for  Monsanto. 


1941 


William  Carroll,  Jr.  is  retired  and  living  in 
Tarpon  Springs,  Flonda. 

George  George  and  his  son,  Doug 
George,  '69,  have  taken  over  the  manage- 
ment of  the  new,  totally  renovated  "9-20" 
Motel  in  Northboro,  Mass.  and  of  the  West 
Boylston  Motel  in  West  Boylston.  The  "9- 
20"  features  hght  housekeeping  units  and 
Diamond  Jim's  Restaurant,  as  well  as  a 
heated  indoor  pool  and  can  clearly  be  seen  by 
driving  on  Rte.  9.  The  Georges,  who  manage 
other  properties  in  eastern  Massachusetts, 
are  also  home  builders. 


1942 


WPI  Prof.  Roy  Bourgault  has  been  selected  by 
the  Michelin  Tire  Company  to  provide  his 
failure  analysis  expertise  in  accident  cases 
involving  their  tires. 


1943 


Arthur  Grazulis  holds  the  post  of  principal 
process  control  engineer  at  Diamond  Sham- 
rock Corp.,  PainesviUe,  Ohio. 


1944 


Dr.  Kenneth  Cashin  resigned  as  associate 
dean  of  engineering  at  UMass  in  August.  He 
will  return  to  the  Chemical  Engineering  De- 
partment for  three  more  years. 

John  Chandler  has  been  named  a  vice 
president  of  Borg- Warner  Corporation's 
York-International  operation.  He  is  respon- 
sible for  all  marine,  military  and  government 
sales  of  the  company's  air  conditioning  and 
refrigeration  equipment  in  the  U.S.  and  in 
international  markets.  Additionally,  he 
heads  York's  government  relations  activities 
in  Washington,  DC.  He  loined  the  York 
division  of  the  firm  in  1944  and  has  served  in 
increasingly  responsible  capacities.  Most  re- 
cently, he  was  director  of  York-Inter- 
national's  Marine,  Military  and  Government 
IX'partment. 


Chandler  is  active  in  several 
Washington  area  professional  and  commu- 
nity organizations,  including  the  Govern- 
ment Contracts  Council  of  the  Machinery 
and  Allied  Products  Institute.  He  is  a  director 
and  chairman  of  the  government  relations 
committee  for  the  Alliance  for  a  Responsible 
Chlorofluorocarbon  Policy.  Also,  he  is  a 
member  of  the  Society  of  Naval  Architects 
and  Marine  Engineers,  the  American  Society 
of  Naval  Engineers,  and  the  American  Soci- 
ety of  Heating,  Refrigeration  and  Air  Condi- 
tioning Engineers. 

Associated  with  the  Kiwanis,  he  directs 
the  activities  of  that  organization's  or- 
thopedic chnic  at  Sibley  Hospital.  He  serves 
as  treasurer  of  the  University  Club  of 
Washington,  D.C.  and  belongs  to  the  New- 
comen  Society  of  North  America,  the  U.S. 
Navy  League,  and  the  Propeller  Club. 

Harold  Davis  continues  as  president  and 
general  manager  of  Electro-Flex  Heat,  Inc., 
Bloomfield,  Conn.  His  firm  has  concentrated 
on  two  specific  types  of  flexible  heating 
elements:  flat  elements  and  molded  ele- 
ments, both  stock  and  custom.  It  provides  a 
complete  line  of  drum  and  pail  heaters,  based 
on  well  developed  capabilities  in  the  flexible 
heating  element  area.  It  also  offers  a  series  of 
indicating  and  non-indicating  temperature 
controllers  for  the  precise  control  of  pro- 
cesses to  500  degrees  P. 

There  are  many  applications  for 
Electro-Flex  heating  elements  in  industry. 
For  example,  Rockwell  installs  flexible 
neoprene  rubber  heating  elem.ents  on  some 
of  its  aircraft  at  the  duct  inlet  point  to  keep 
the  generator  cooling  duct  open  when  icing 
conditions  are  encountered  in  flight.  A  flexi- 
ble silicone  rubber  blanket  on  the  Better 
Pack  555  Electric  Tape  Machine  (Better 
Packages,  Inc.),  makes  gummed  tape  glue 
stickier.  A  molded  silicone  rubber  heater 
used  by  Martin  Marietta  on  the  Viking 
spacecrafts  ensured  the  maintenance  of  the 
fuel  temperature.  Electro-Flex  heaters  are 
also  used  in  personal  products,  such  as  foot- 
baths. 

Everett  Johnson,  manager  of  the  Beacon 
Research  Laboratories  of  Texaco,  Inc.,  has 
been  elected  to  the  board  of  directors  of  the 
United  Way  of  Dutchess  County  in  New 
York  State.  He  will  assist  in  making  policy 
decisions  that  will  affect  the  operations  of 
the  United  Way,  including  the  allocation  of 
funds,  and  community  planning.  In  other 
areas,  Johnson  serves  as  director  of  the 
Council  of  Industry  of  Southeastern  New 
York  and  has  been  busy  with  a  number  of 
civic,  social,  political,  and  religious  organi- 
zations. He  belongs  to  the  Society  of  Au- 
tomotive Engineers  and  to  the  Southern 
Dutchess  County  Chamber  of  Commerce. 

Eriing  Lagerholm's  corporate  offices 
(Norwood  Group  International)  have  been 
moved  from  Boston  to  Bedford,  N.H. 

Paul  Pressel  serves  as  a  senior  staff  en- 
gineer for  Bendix  Electric  in  Sidney,  New 
York. 

Dr.  Jack  Queijo  has  been  named  director 
of  the  NASA  Langley  Visitor  Center  in 
Hampton,  Va.  He  retired  from  NASA's 
Langley  Research  Center  in  1980  after  .^6 
years  of  service,  and  brings  a  wealth  of  expe- 
rience to  his  new  post.  In  the  early  days  of 
America's  space  program,  he  worked  closely 
with  the  original  seven  astronauts  and  to 


some  extent  with  Dr.  Wernher  von  Braun.  At 
NASA  he  played  a  key  role  in  determining 
lunar  orbit  rendezvous  techniques,  worked 
with  the  earliest  simulated  lunar  landings 
and  was  involved  with  simulations  for  the 
Gemini  missions.  Later,  he  dealt  with  re- 
search in  aerodynamics  of  swept-wing  air- 
craft, stall/spin  problems  and  unsteady 
aerodynamics. 

Queijo  finds  his  new  position  "ex- 
tremely interesting  because  of  all  the 
changes  and  advances  that  are  still  occurring. 
The  most  impressive  thing  about  the  Visitor 
Center  is  that  it's  a  living  organism  rather 
than  a  museum.  It's  constantly  being 
changed  and  kept  up-to-date."  He  looks  for- 
ward to  "making  the  public  more  aware  of 
Langley  and  NASA-wide  contributions  to 
aeronautics,  to  technology  and  to  the  econ- 
omy." 

Bill  Raymond  has  held  his  current  post 
as  chief  of  Gannett  Fleming's  Traffic  Section 
since  1967,  following  a  three-year  stint  as 
manager  of  the  firm's  Pittsburgh  office,  and 
years  of  highway  design  work.  He  will  soon 
be  celebrating  his  25th  anniversary  with  the 
company.  One  of  his  duties  during  the  past 
fifteen  years,  has  been  keeping  careful  plot- 
tings  of  traffic  volumes  on  the  South  Bridge 
in  Harrisburg,  Pa.  He  gets  quarterly  data  on 
traffic  counts  for  other  areas  througliout 
Pennsylvania,  and  wanted  to  see  how  the 
volume  would  grow. 

Initially,  three  alternate  schemes  for 
traffic  maintenance  were  developed  for  the 
bridge.  The  plan  eventually  adopted  required 
fewer  changes  in  traffic  patterns.  Says  Bill, 
"People  get  used  to  the  traffic  patterns.  If 
patterns  are  constantly  being  changed, 
there's  more  chance  for  confusion." 

Last  year.  Bill  served  as  a  member  of  the 
conference  committee  at  the  Specialty  Con- 
ference on  Rehabilitation  and  Reconstruc- 
tion of  Major  Highways  held  in  New  Or- 
leans, La. 


1945 


John  Bayer,  as  a  guest  columnist,  wrote  an 
article  about  the  American  automobile  in- 
dustry for  the  Patriot,  a  newspaper  in  Web- 
ster, Mass.  in  August.  He  is  president  of 
Bayer  Motors,  Inc.  and  treasurer  of  the  Bayer 
Leasing  Corp.  of  Dudley.  Currently,  Bayer's 
GM  dealership  is  one  of  the  oldest  GM  out- 
lets in  New  England.  He  handles  Cadillacs, 
Pontiacs,  Oldsmobiles,  as  well  as  American 
Motors  vehicles. 

Robert  Buck,  who  retired  from  the  Fed- 
eral Aviation  Administration  in  1979,  re- 
sides in  Bethesda,  Md.  He  holds  a  master's 
degree  from  George  Washington  University. 

Burton  Hinman  serves  as  vice  president 
of  Parajett  AB  of  Landskrona,  Sweden.  He  is 
located  in  Palatine,  Illinois. 

Roger  Perry,  director  of  public  relations 
at  WPI,  has  been  elected  a  regional  director  of 
the  New  England  chapter  ot  the  Public  Rela- 
tions Society  of  America.  He  recently  be- 
came a  certified  giaphoanalyst,  receiving  his 
diploma  from  the  International 
Graphonana lysis  Society. 


26  .  Winter  l'>fH2   The  WPI  hnirnal 


1946 


1952 


1953 


Rodney  Chase  is  with  Rodel,  Inc.,  Newark, 
Delaware. 

Alfred  Wood  serves  as  a  bridge  engineer 
for  the  Southern  Pacific  Transportation  Co., 
San  Francisco. 


1947 


John  Hambor  is  now  president  of  his  own 
company,  HV  Component  Associates,  Inc., 
in  Howell,  N.f.  The  company  just  finished  a 
very  successful  first  year  manufacturing  high 
voltage  rectifiers  and  multipliers  for  use  on 
CRT's  and  X-ray  machines,  and  other 
equipment. 


1948 


Harold  Devlin  serves  as  a  project  manager  at 
Brown  &  Root,  Inc.,  Houston,  Texas. 


1949 


John  Yaeger  has  been  named  manager  of 
marketing  communications  in  the  Modicon 
Division  at  Gould,  Inc.,  Andover,  Mass.  In 
this  post  he  supervises  all  advertising,  sales 
promotion,  market  research,  visual  aids,  in- 
dustry shows,  and  technical  exhibits.  Ini- 
tially, he  joined  the  Modicon  Division  as 
manager  of  marketing  communications. 
Previously,  he  was  account  executive  for  an 
advertising  agency  in  Philadelphia  for  five 
years.  From  1954  to  1967  he  was  on  the 
corporate  marketing  staff  of  Ametek,  Inc., 
performing  market  research  and  product 
planning  for  the  company's  line  of  mechan- 
ical testing  equipment  and  fluid  controls. 


1950 

James  O'Connor  holds  the  post  of  vice  presi- 
dent of  finance  at  Hill  Holiday  Connors 
Cosmopolos  in  Boston. 


Frank  Flood,  Jr.  is  chief  estimator  at  Perini 
Corporation  in  Framingham,  Mass. 

Lee  Tuomenoksa  has  been  elected  vice 
president  of  Customer  Services  II,  Area  44,  at 
Bell  Laboratories.  In  this  newly-created  post, 
he  will  be  responsible  for  developing  busi- 
ness communication  products  and  services 
for  the  Bell  System.  He  joined  Bell  Labs  in 
1954,  developing  the  database  and  switching 
network  control  for  an  experimental  elec- 
tronic central  office  in  Morris,  111.  In  1966,  he 
was  named  head  of  the  Electronic  Switching 
Maintenance  Planning  Department,  and 
oversaw  the  design  of  program  and  circuit 
facilities  for  detecting  and  analyzing  troubles 
in  No.  1  ESS.  After  becoming  assistant  direc- 
tor of  the  No.  4  ESS  Switching  System  Labo- 
ratory in  1974,  he  was  promoted  to  director 
of  the  laboratory  in  1976.  Subsequently  he 
was  named  director  of  the  local  ESS  Applica- 
tions Laboratory,  director  of  the  Digital 
Terminal  Laboratory,  and  executive  director. 
Transmission  Terminals  and  Maintenance 
Division.  In  1979,  he  was  appointed  execu- 
tive director  of  Data  Communications,  the 
post  he  held  prior  to  his  most  recent  ad- 
vancement. 

As  a  new  vice  president,  Tuomenoksa 
says  that  he  has  two  goals  for  his  company: 
"To  work  more  closely  with  Western  Elec- 
tric and  AT&T  and  to  become  known  as 
leaders  in  good  management  and  leaders  in 
how  well  we  treat  people."  Earlier  in  his 
career,  while  working  as  a  department  head 
responsible  for  No.  4  ESS  system  design  and 
operational  program  development,  he  be- 
came aware  of  how  critical  "people"  issues 
are.  "I  started  to  realize  the  technical  prob- 
lems were  often  a  lot  easier  to  solve  than 
were  the  people  problems." 

Possessed  of  a  wry  sense  of  humor, 
Tuomenoksa  has  put  out  a  16-page  guideline 
for  achieving  a  project  failure.  One  guideline 
is  "Always  establish  a  schedule  before  you 
know  what  the  project  requirements  are." 
Another  is  "When  people  come  to  you  with 
their  problems,  make  it  clear  that  you  do  not 
want  to  hear  them." 

Married  and  the  father  of  three,  he  tries 
to  keep  his  weekends  open  for  sailing  (a 
16-footer),  building  doll  houses,  and  photog- 
raphy. "I  try  to  limit  my  hours  at  work  so  I 
leave  time  for  other  things.  I  can  be  more 
effective  that  way." 

Lee  Tuomenoksa  reflects  with  emotion 
on  his  rise  at  Bell  Labs.  "To  come  to  America 
(from  Helsinki,  Finland)  not  knowing  any 
English  and  with  only  20  bucks  in  my 
pocket,  and  I'm  now  a  vice  president  of  Bell 
Labr!  I'm  flabbergasted!  Not  in  any  other 
country  in  the  world  could  this  happen, 
except  America." 


Dr.  John  Coupe  has  been  appointed  as  vice 
president  for  finance  and  administration  at 
the  University  of  Maine  at  Orono.  He  has 
been  serving  as  acting  vice  president  since 
October  1,  1979.  In  that  capacity,  he  is  re- 
sponsible for  the  overall  financial  affairs  and 
the  non-academic  administrative  affairs  of 
UMO.  He  also  supervises  the  operations  of 
the  physical  plant,  police  and  safety,  em- 
ployee relations,  public  information  and  cen- 
tral services  and  the  business  manager  while 
maintaining  a  financial  responsibility  in 
physical  education  and  athletics.  He  first 
became  a  member  of  the  faculty  in  1 958,  and 
holds  the  academic  rank  of  professor  of  eco- 
nomics. From  1969  to  1976  he  served  as 
chairman  of  the  economics  department.  In 
1961-62  he  was  an  assistant  professor  of 
economics  at  Kent  State  University.  He 
holds  a  master's  degree  and  PhD  in  econom- 
ics from  Clark  University. 

Dick  Davis  is  now  president  of  CCI,  Inc., 
Waterford,  Conn.  He  is  a  WPI  trustee. 

Phil  Simon  writes  that  he  is  in  his  24th 
year  with  IBM  and  loves  it.  "I  hit  the  com- 
puter business  just  at  the  right  time."  Cur- 
rently, he  has  responsibility  for  all  of  IBM's 
business  with  Rockwell  nationally  and  in- 
ternationally. The  job  keeps  him  traveling. 
He  has  quite  a  few  salesmen,  technical  sup- 
port personnel,  and  managers  working  with 
him.  He  says  that  he  and  his  wife,  Pat,  are 
golf  nuts.  "We  will  go  anywhere  to  play  in  a 
tournament."  They  particularly  enjoy  play- 
ing in  Hawaii. 

Donald  Taylor  is  the  self-employed  pres- 
ident of  his  own  business  in  Bumsville,  N.C. 


1954 


Robert  Labonte  serves  as  associate  depart- 
ment head  at  Mitre  Corp.  in  Bedford,  Mass. 

Robert  Luoma  continues  as  a  senior  sys- 
tems engineer  at  GE  in  Sunnyvale,  Calif.  He 
and  his  wife,  Alice,  now  reside  in  San  Jose. 

Donald  E.  Ross  has  been  promoted  to 
executive  vice  president  and  chief  operating 
officer  of  MPB  Corp.,  Keene,  N.H.  He  joined 
the  company  in  1962,  most  recently  serving 
as  vice  president  and  general  manager  of 
MPB's  split  ball  bearing  division  in  Lebanon. 
He  is  a  director  of  the  National  Bank  of 
Lebanon  and  of  the  Lebanon  Industrial  De- 
velopment Association.  Also,  he  is  a  corpo- 
rate member  of  the  Mary  Hitchcock  Memo- 
rial Hospital.  A  past  president  of  the  Lebanon 
Chamber  of  Commerce,  he  has  been  a  direc- 
tor of  the  Upper  Valley  United  Way  and  of 
the  local  Boy  Scout  Council,  as  well. 


195 1 


Dr.  Robert  Zimmerer  serves  as  a  consultant 
at  Scientech,  Inc.,  Boulder,  Colorado.  He 
writes:  "I  have  retired  from  an  active  role  in 
the  company  I  founded  in  1968." 


The  WPI  journal  I  Winter  1982127 


1955 


Brian  Kelly  was  recently  appointed  vice  pres- 
ident of  customer  services  at  Bell  Telephone 
Company.  In  his  new  post  he  directs  some 
18,000  employees  in  construction,  engineer- 
ing, installation,  repair,  and  business  offices. 
He  is  headquartered  in  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  Previ- 
ously, Kelly  was  Bell's  vice  president  and 
general  manager  of  its  western  Pennsylvania 
region.  He  now  is  in  charge  of  all  of  Pennsyl- 
vania for  the  company,  an  area  which  ser- 
vices some  eight  million  Bell  telephones.  In 
1955  he  joined  Bell  and  was  subsequently 
promoted  to  various  posts.  He  holds  a  mas- 
ter's degree  from  MIT  and  attended  LaSalle 
College  and  Cornell  University.  Earlier  he 
served  in  the  Army  Signal  Corps.  Currently 
he  is  a  captain  in  the  Army  Reserves. 


1957 


Dr.  Robert  Crane  serves  as  research  professor 
of  engineering  at  Thayer  School  of  Engineer- 
ing, Dartmouth  College,  Hanover,  N.H. 

Stuart  Hamilton  has  been  appointed 
product  manager  of  Aritech  Corp.  in  Fra- 
mingham,  Mass.  He  comes  to  Aritech  from 
Fenwal  where  he  was  a  project  engineer 
involved  in  smoke  and  fire  detection.  Prior  to 
that  he  operated  his  own  alarm  installation 
company.  Aritech  manufactures  intrusion 
detection  systems  and  equipment  and  a  wide 
range  of  other  burglar  and  fire  alarm  prod- 
ucts. 

lames  Richards  serves  as  president  of 
Flo-Lube  Inc.,  Sanderson,  Fla. 

Richard  Silven  was  recently  appointed 
group  vice  president  for  components  of 
Bumdy  Corporation,  Norwalk,  Conn.  In  his 
position  he  is  responsible  for  world-wide 
operations  of  the  company's  Components 
Group,  which  designs  and  manufactures 
electronic  connectors  for  commercial,  con- 
sumer, and  industrial  products.  Formerly,  he 
was  international  group  vice  president  for 
Harvey  Hubbcll.  Before  joining  Hubbell,  he 
was  vice  president  and  general  manager  for 
Bumdy  in  Detroit.  He  has  an  MBA  from 
Harvard  Business  School. 


1958 


Prof,  fames  Demetry,  chairman  of  the  divi- 
sion of  interdisciplinary  affairs  and  professor 
of  cicctncal  engineering  at  WPI,  was  recently 
elected  selectman  in  Holden  from  a  field  of 
five  candidates.  The  special  election  was  for 
the  eight  months  left  in  the  three-year  term 
of  a  selectman  who  resigned  for  health  rea- 
sons. In  his  first  bid  for  elective  office,  [im 
received  599  votes,  224  more  than  the  second 
plate  candidate  Previously,  he  was  a 
member  of  the  Holden  Planning  Board  for 
nine  years. 


Carlton  Staples,  professor  of  mechanical 
engineering  at  WPI,  is  on  leave  of  absence  at 
the  Colorado  School  of  Mines.  During  the 
summer,  he  attended  seminars  in  Salt  Lake 
City,  worked  on  computer  graphics  software 
at  the  University  of  Utah  and  Brigham  Young 
University,  and  spent  time  at  the  Air  Force 
Academy  and  the  University  of  Colorado. 

William  Wesolowski  holds  the  post  of 
section  manager  for  Raytheon  Co.  in  Sud- 
bury, Mass. 


1961 


1959 


Dr.  Mohammad  Amin  serves  as  supervisor  of 
the  stress  and  probabilistic  analysis  section 
for  Sargent  and  Lundy  Engineers,  Chicago, 
111. 

William  Bailey  is  an  account  manager  at 
Lubriquip  in  Cleveland,  Ohio. 

Roberto  Jaramillo  holds  the  position  of 
ambassador-consul  general  for  the  Colom- 
bian government  in  New  York  City. 

Don  Kirk,  on  a  year's  sabbatical  leave 
from  his  post  as  chairman  of  the  electrical 
engineering  department  at  the  Naval  Post- 
graduate School  in  Monterey,  Calif.,  is  now 
at  MIT's  Lincoln  Laboratory.  He  writes:  It 
has  been  enjoyable  and  educational  for  my 
three  daughters,  Kara,  18,  Valerie,  15,  and 
Dana,  13,  to  leam  about  New  England  after 
having  grown  up  in  California." 

Peter  Peloquin  currently  serves  as  glue 
room  supervisor  at  Seaboard  Folding  Box 
Corp.,  Fitchburg,  Mass. 

Lee  Smith,  Jr.  is  assistant  plant  manager 
for  du  Pont  in  Ft.  Madison,  Iowa. 

Edwin  Tenney  continues  as  manager, 
mechanical  collector  market,  at  GE  En- 
vironmental Services,  Lebanon,  Pa. 


i960 


Paul  Johnson  is  still  regional  director  of  the 
MIT  Alumni  Association.  He  has  an  AB  from 
Colgate  University  and  a  master's  degree 
from  Boston  University.  He  also  attended  the 
Harvard  School  of  Business,  from  which  he 
holds  a  certificate. 

Raymond  Levesque  is  now  employed  as 
plant  and  manufacturing  manager  in  the 
Engineered  Products  Department  at  Ameri- 
can Cyanamid,  Havre  De  Grace,  Md. 

Robert  Norton  of  the  WPI  mechanical 
engineering  department  attended  the 
Hewlett-Packard  Seminar  dealing  with 
Dynamic  Analysis  Equipment  in  September. 


Prof.  Roger  Borden  of  the  WPI  mechanical 
engineering  department  has  received  a  cer- 
tificate of  advanced  professional  studies  in 
religion  from  Assumption  College  for  the  ten 
courses  and  thesis  which  he  has  completed 
beyond  his  master's  degree  in  religious 
studies. 

James  Fogarty  is  president  of  Plastic 
Engineering  Assoc,  Inc.,  Boca  Raton,  Fla. 

Currently,  Brad  Hosmer  holds  the  post 
of  vice  president  of  group  services  at  AMF, 
White  Plains,  N.Y.  Previously,  he  was  with 
Branson  Sonic  Power  Company,  Booz  Allen 
&.  Hamilton,  and  Kodak.  Active  with  the 
WPI  Alumni  Association,  Brad  also  has  been 
busy  with  community  affairs,  serving  as 
chairman  of  the  Church  Council.  In  1976  he 
was  elected  to  the  school  board  in  West 
Redding,  Conn.  His  wife,  Nita,  has  had  her 
own  business  as  a  freelance  fashion  designer 
since  1967. 

Larry  Israel's  company,  Visualtek  of 
Santa  Monica,  Calif.,  is  the  world  leader  in 
the  electronic  reading  aid  market.  His  prod- 
uct, an  electronic  magnifier,  is  used  by  the 
"legally  blind."  Currently,  Visualtek,  has 
over  $4,000,000  in  annual  sales.  "It's  been 
nice  to  have  a  successful  small  business,  but 
it's  especially  nice  to  simultaneously  be  able 
to  bring  such  a  blessing  to  thousands  of 
visually  impaired  individuals  around  the 
world."  Among  those  people  are  a  world- 
famous  trial  attorney,  a  well-known  actor,  a 
number  of  judges,  etc.  "But  the  most  plea- 
sure comes  from  helping  someone  you 
know." 

Asjed  Jalil  continues  as  a  senior  engineer 
in  the  rolling  mill  department  at  Morgan 
Construction  Co.,  Worcester.  Early  in  his 
career,  he  worked  as  a  sales  engineer  for 
ESSO  in  India.  Outside  interests  include  his 
association  with  technical  societies,  com- 
munity affairs,  tennis,  and  travel.  The  Jalils, 
who  reside  in  Holden,  have  one  child,  a 
daughter. 

Currently,  G.  Leonard  Johnson  holds  the 
post  of  director  of  generation  engineering  at 
Northeast  Utilities  Service  Company  in 
Connecticut.  He  is  responsible  for  numerous 
projects  on  operating  nuclear  units,  coal 
conversion  of  several  fossil  plants  currently 
burning  oil,  and  a  few  hydroelectric  projects. 
He  joined  Northeast  as  a  "charter  member" 
in  1966  when  the  company  was  formed. 

The  James  Kachadorians  of  Woodstock, 
Vt.  recently  returned  from  a  trip  to  England, 
France,  and  Switzerland.  While  on  tour,  |im 
presented  a  paper  on  passive  solar  energy  at 
the  World  Solar  Forum  in  Brighton,  England. 
During  the  forum,  representatives  from  74 
countries  met  and  exchanged  ideas  and  pur- 
sued common  interests  in  methods  of  utiliz- 
ing solar  energy.  The  trip  was  highlighted  by 
visits  to  a  family  friend  in  Bath,  England,  and 
to  relatives  in  St.  Cyr-Lyon,  France.  |im's 
wife,  who  does  all  of  the  advertising  for  his 
manufactured  passive  solar  home  business, 
holds  the  U.S.  unofficial  record  for  vertical 
feet  skied  in  one  day  by  a  woman.  Last  year 
|im  bagged  two  bucks  in  the  same  season.  He 
also  enjoys  travel,  skiing,  camping,  fishing, 
and  engaging  in  community  activities. 


28  !  Wmlct  19H2    The  Wl'l  lourruil 


Wood  chopping,  hiking,  and  cross  coun- 
try skiing  are  favorite  pastimes  of  Peter 
Kuniholm,  who,  with  his  wife  and  children, 
usually  resides  in  Pound  Ridge,  N.Y.  Cur- 
rently, he  writes:  "Enjoying  an  interesting 
experience  in  Egypt  working  on  long  range 
planning  and  doing  a  design  study  for 
waste-water  systems  in  cities  along  the  Suez 
Canal.  Will  be  here  for  18  months,  but  we'll 
be  glad  to  be  back  in  New  York  next  fall. "  He 
is  with  Malcolm  Pirnie,  Inc.,  Consulting 
Environmental  Engineers. 

Charlie  Mello  continues  as  a  facilities 
planner  and  plant  engineer  for  Coppus  En- 
gineering. A  resident  of  Paxton,  Mass.,  he 
enjoys  town  politics  and  youth  activities,  as 
well  as  tennis.  He  is  married  to  Ann  Mcin- 
tosh (sisterto  Bob,  '62 )  and  has  four  children . 
His  career  has  sent  him  to  Rio  de  Janeiro  and 
Lisbon.  "Hope  to  spend  more  time  in 
Europe." 

For  the  past  14  years  Dick  Miczek  has 
been  with  The  Fort  Miller  Co.,  Inc.,  a  manu- 
facturer of  precast  concrete  products.  He  is 
now  executive  vice  president  of  the  firm, 
which  has  branched  out  into  commercial  and 
residential  fencing  products  (Anvil  Fence  & 
Supply  Co.).  Activities  include  vegetable 
gardening,  ice  fishing  on  Lake  George,  and 
involvement  with  church  activities.  "Have 
volunteered  many  years  of  time  in  girls' 
Softball,  serving  on  the  board  of  directors, 
coaching,  managing  and  winning  a  iew 
trophies  to  boot." 

John  Ogorzalek  is  currently  employed  as 
a  production  manager  at  Henkel  Corp., 
Hawthome,  Calif.  He  holds  a  JD  from  West- 
em  State  University  and  he  passed  the 
California  bar  exam  in  1976,  although  he 
does  not  now  practice  law.  Active  in  support 
of  various  handicapped  associations,  in  1976 
he  was  named  Man  of  the  Year  for  California 
Communities  Pool  for  the  Handicapped. 

Yesugey  Oktay  serves  as  division  head 
in  charge  of  civil  and  structural  engineering 
at  Boston  Edison  Company.  Also,  he  teaches 
structural  steel  design  at  Northeastem  Uni- 
versity. Oktay's  wife,  Shirley,  is  a  pediatri- 
cian associated  with  Boston  University  Med- 
ical School.  They  have  a  four-year  old  son, 
David. 

Won  Park  writes  from  Seoul,  Korea,  that 
he  enjoys  relaxing  at  his  wonderful  home  in 
the  suburbs  with  its  mountain  view.  For  the 
past  eleven  years,  he  has  served  as  managing 
and  planning  director  of  the  Duksung  School 
Foundation.  The  Foundation,  which  in- 
cludes a  women's  college,  a  girls'  middle  and 
high  school,  and  a  kindergarten,  recently 
celebrated  its  61st  aimiversary.  Park's  wife 
teaches  at  the  women's  college.  The  couple 
has  a  daughter,  Elisa,  11.  "We  also  have  15 
dogs." 

Ken  Parker's  son,  Matt,  is  a  freshman  at 
WPI.  After  working  for  U.S.  Steel,  Gilbane 
Building  Co.,  and  Fletcher-Thompson,  Inc., 
he  became  a  real  estate  investor- 
entrepreneur  in  1978.  "The  hours  are  longer, 
but  I  love  the  freedom."  At  last  count  his 
firm,  Monmat  Enterprises,  Inc,  Warwick, 
R.I.,  owned  or  operated  70  apartments,  seven 
offices,  two  shops,  and  a  laundromat. 


Bill  Peirce  teaches  full  time  at  Cape  Cod 
Community  College,-  teaches  part  time  at 
Northeastern;  and  serves  as  director  of  de- 
velopment for  Falmouth  Academy,  while  he 
and  his  wife,  Marilyn,  continue  to  run  a  small 
consulting  business  on  the  side.  The  Peirces 
and  their  children  enjoy  life  on  Cape  Cod. 
They  sail  Hobie  16's  in  national  and  interna- 
tional competition,  as  well  as  lasers,  sunfish, 
and  windsurfers.  They  continue  competing 
in  water  skiing.  (In  1964,  Bill  and  Marilyn 
won  the  U.S.  National  championships  in 
mixed  doubles  water  skiing.) 

John  Powers  continues  as  assistant  chief 
engineer  at  Tighe  &.  Bond,  Springfield,  Mass. 
He  has  been  responsible  for  the  preliminary 
planning,  final  design,  and  construction 
supervision  of  numerous  sanitary  engineer- 
ing projects  including  sewers,  pumping  sta- 
tions, and  wastewater  treatment  plants, 
water  distribution  and  treatment  systems. 
His  wife,  Julie,  has  a  BA  in  social  work  and  is 
a  registered  nurse. 

John  Quagliaroli,  who  founded  Fowler, 
Anthony  &  Co.  in  1976  (mergers,  venture 
capital,  etc.)  has  recently  started  a  second 
operation  to  set  up  national  marketing 
facilities  for  high-technology  startups  in  re- 
turn for  equity/cash.  Previously,  he  was  with 
EBM,  Multitone  Electronics,  an-d  F.L.  Mannix 
&.  Co.,  Inc.  He  has  published  over  200  pages 
of  marketing/financial  studies  and  has  served 
on  the  board  of  directors  of  private  firms  as 
well  as  a  children's  home.  Fie  is  listed  in 
"Who's  Who",  as  is  his  wife,  an  IBM  manager 
and  1980  finalist  for  a  White  House  Fellow- 
ship. 

David  Raab  now  works  for  C.S.  Draper 
Lab.,  in  Cambridge,  Mass.  He  returned  to  his 
home  in  Belmont  recently  after  more  than 
two  years  assigned  as  a  field  engineer  at 
Rockwell  in  Downey,  Calif.  Earlier  he  had 
taught  for  two  years  at  Wentworth  Institute. 
One  year  he  backpacked  around  Europe  from 
the  North  Cape  of  Norway  to  the  southern 
tip  of  Israel,  with  an  excursion  to  Leningrad 
.and  a  ski  trip  in  the  Swiss  Alps.  He  writes, 
"Most  of  my  activities  in  California  centered 
around  the  schedule  of  the  Sierra  Club." 

Still  with  his  wife's  family  oil  business 
in  Maine,  Leo  Robichaud  is  also  busy  as  a 
member  of  the  Caribou  planning  board  and 
as  a  director  for  the  local  Rotary  Club.  In 
business  he  is  in  charge  of  all  construction 
and  maintenance  and  manages  a  branch  of- 
fice. "I  enjoy  this,  because  I  design  all  the 
projects  and  build  them  acting  as  superin- 
tendent." From  1961  to  1973,  he  worked  for 
the  USDA's  Forest  Service. 

Sheldon  Rothstein  practices  corporate 
law  with  Polaroid  Corporation.  Early  in  his 
career,  he  was  a  patent  examiner  at  the  U.S. 
Patent  Office.  In  1965,  he  received  his  JD 
from  Georgetown  University.  He  says,  "Lori 
keeps  busy  managing  the  family  vineyards  in 
the  Rhone  Valley  and  overseeing  our  homes 
m  Framingham  and  Antibes."  The  Roth- 
steins  have  three  children. 

Since  joining  The  Burke  Co.  seven  years 
ago,  Ned  Rowe  has  managed  sales  and  distri- 
bution organizations,  worked  in  marketing, 
and  is  now  selling  heavy  construction 
equipment.  He  enjoys  travel,  and  took  a 
six-month  trip  around  the  world,  later  going 
to  Russia  and  Africa.  "I've  worked  on  the  ski 
patrol,  and  used  to  be  kind  of  fanatic  about 
skiing,  but  it  gets  increasingly  difficult  to 
make  the  time  for  it."  He  is  located  in 
Oakland,  Calif. 


Golf,  tennis,  racketball,  and  paddle  ball 
are  some  of  the  pastimes  of  Robert  Ruberti. 

He  and  his  family  also  like  camping,  cross 
country  skiing,  and  travel.  Currently,  he  is 
chief  of  the  Command  Intelligence  Section 
at  Rome  Air  Development  Center,  Griffiss 
AFB,  N.  Y.,  where  he  has  worked  since  gradu- 
ation. He  helps  develop  intelligence  infor- 
mation systems,  including  the  new  intelli- 
gence component  of  the  Space  Defense 
Center  in  Colorado  and  the  National  MiH- 
tary  Intelligence  Center  at  the  Pentagon. 

John  Ryerson  has  worked  at  IBM  in 
various  staff  and  management,  technical  and 
planning  jobs  for  20  years.  Now  headquar- 
tered in  White  Plains,  N.Y.,  he  is  concemed 
with  marketing  requirements.  He  serves  as  a 
deacon  and  trustee  for  the  Baptist  Church  in 
Suffern,  N.Y.  The  family  is  involved  with 
children's  sports. 

Bob  Schomber  serves  as  T&D  manager 
for  the  southeastern  division  of  Florida 
Power  &.  Light,  a  position  controlling  550 
employees  and  a  $20  million  expense  budget. 
Previously  he  had  been  with  Fuqua  Indus- 
tries Company  and  Owens  Coming  Fi- 
berglas,  serving  the  boating  market.  He  has 
been  active  as  vice  chairman  of  the  school 
board  audit  committee.  "We  live  on  the 
water  and  are  all  addicted  to  the  fishing, 
diving,  water  skiing  and  camping  activities 
in  Florida." 


1962 


Dr.  Michael  Davis  is  currently  professor  of 
radiology  and  nuclear  medicine  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Massachusetts  Medical  School  in 
Worcester. 

Clifford  Engstrom  has  been  employed  as 
general  manager  of  the  Massena  (N.Y.)  Elec- 
trical Department.  He  says,  "I  started  Sept. 
1st  as  the  first  general  manager  of  Massena 
Electric.  Massena  is  the  first  new  municipal 
electrical  system  created  in  many  years.  I 
have  to  start  the  business  almost  from 
scratch." 

Richard  Frost  holds  the  position  of  dis- 
trict superintendent  and  transmission  and 
distribution  at  Narragansett  Electric  Co., 
Providence,  R.I. 

Philip  Pilibosian  was  recently  named 
assistant  vice  president  in  sales  by  Pacific 
Telephone.  In  his  new  post,  he  is  responsible 
for  sales  activities  in  the  professional  ser- 
vices and  utilities  market  in  Southern 
California.  He  began  his  Bell  System  career 
in  1975  at  AT&T  in  the  marketing  depart- 
ment. He  served  as  an  industry  manager  and 
was  responsible  for  accounts  in  the  printing 
and  publishing  field.  He  held  several  mana- 
gerial positions  at  AT&.T  before  joining  New 
England  Telephone's  marketing  department 
in  1980.  Until  he  assumed  his  current  as- 
signment, he  was  a  division  manager  for  the 
company's  accounts  in  the  health  care  and 
lodging  segment.  He  has  an  MBA  from  Clark 
University. 


The  WPI  Inurnal  I  Winter  19H2I29 


1963 


Dr.  Robert  Behn  continues  as  an  associate 
professor  at  Duke  University  Institute  of 
Policy  Sciences  in  Durham,  N.C. 

WPI  Prof.  Allen  Hoffman  placed  second 
in  the  Frank  Sannella  Alumni  Race  held  Oct. 
3rd. 

Russell  Hokanson  is  a  design  liaison 
supervisor  at  du  Pont  in  Newark,  Delaware. 

Dr.  Stephen  Nagy  has  joined  the  senior 
professional  staff  at  the  Mary  Imogene  Bas- 
sett  Hospital,  CooperstowTi,  N.Y.,  where  he 
is  a  radiation  physicist.  His  primary  respon- 
sibility is  treatment  planning  and  dosimetry 
for  the  Radiation  Therapy  Department.  He 
also  serves  as  radiation  safety  officer  for  the 
institution.  He  received  his  MS  and  PhD 
degrees  from  the  University  of  Connecticut. 
From  1969  until  1975,  he  was  an  assistant 
professor  of  physics  at  the  University  of 
Vermont. 


as  well  as  other  countries.  In  addition,  he  has 
accepted  an  assignment  to  act  as  special 
liaison  for  Occidental  Petroleum,  Hooker's 
parent  organization  in  Poland  and  Hungary. 


1964 


Stuart  Bowen  is  the  owner-manager  of  Len- 
ora  Restaurant  on  Massachusetts  Avenue  in 
Cambridge,  Mass.  He  holds  a  BSCE  from 
Northeastern  and  a  PhD  from  the  University 
of  Massachusetts.  The  Bowens  live  in  Win- 
chester and  have  two  children. 

William  Cote  holds  the  position  of  vice 
president  and  general  manager  at  TRC-Env. 
Consultants  in  Englewood,  Colorado. 

Harry  Pager,  Jr.  is  chief  of  a  management 
office  for  the  USAF  at  Tinker  AFB  in  Ok- 
lahoma. 

Ronald  Gemma  works  as  a  market  de- 
velopment manager  at  Digital  in  Merrimack, 
N.H.  He  has  an  MBA  from  Babson. 

|.  Richard  Lundgren  is  now  an  associate 
professor  at  the  University  of  Colorado  at 
Denver.  He  has  an  MS  and  PhD  from  Ohio 
State  University.  He  and  Linda  live  in 
Lakewood  and  have  two  children. 

Dr.  Robert  Peura,  coordinator  of 
biomedical  engineering  at  WPI,  was  the  au- 
thor of  a  paper  presented  at  Kyoto  (lapan) 
Medical  School  in  August.  It  was  titled:  "A 
Biomedical  Engineering  Analysis  of  Impe- 
dance Plethysmographic  Measurements  of 
the  Extremities — The  Nature  of  the 
Physiological  Signal  and  the  Impedance 
Samplmg  Field."  Currently,  Peura  is  on  sab- 
batical leave  until  next  September.  Dunng 
the  academic  year  he  will  be  at  MIT  studying 
under  an  NSF  faculty  professional  develop- 
ment grant. 

Stan  Szymanski  has  been  appointed 
manager  of  Chlor-Alkali  Systems  in  the 
newly  formed  Technology  Licensing  De- 
partment of  the  Industrial  Chemicals  Ciroup 
at  Hooker  Chemical  Company,  Niagara 
Falls,  N.Y.  The  new  department  will  be  re- 
sponsible for  technology  licensing  and  acqui- 
sition in  the  Industrial  Chemicals  Clroup's 
maior  business  areas  of  chlor-alkali,  sodium 
chlorate,  and  specialty  chemicals.  Stan  will 
have  responsibility  for  marketing,  sales,  and 
technical  service  for  his  division  His  previ- 
ous worldwide  responsibilities  as  interna- 
tional business  development  manager,  have 
taken  him  to  Norway,  Tanzania,  and  Russia, 


1965 


^■Married:  James  F.  Fee  to  loan  Frelich  in  St. 
Louis,  Missouri  on  August  16,  1981.  The 
bride  has  a  BA  from  Skidmore  College  and  a 
master's  degree  from  Boston  University.  She 
works  as  a  therapist  at  Beaverbrook  Child 
Guidance  Center  in  Waltham,  Mass.  Her 
husband  continues  as  a  product  manager  at 
Accutest  in  Chelmsford,  Mass. 

Marvin  Berger  has  joined  the  manage- 
ment consulting  group  of  Bigelow  &  Com- 
pany, Manchester,  N.H.  He  previously  had 
been  with  several  major  corporations,  in- 
cluding IBM,  where  he  held  sales,  marketing, 
and  management  positions.  He  has  an  MBA 
from  Amos  Tuck  School  at  Dartmouth. 

Denis  Berube  holds  the  post  of  manager 
of  advanced  engineering  at  GE  in  Bingham- 
ton,  N.Y.  He  has  an  MSEE  from  Union  Col- 
lege. 

Michael  Boyd  continues  as  a  senior  pro- 
grammer at  Sperry  Univac  in  Roseville, 
Minnesota.  He  holds  both  his  master's  and 
doctor's  degrees  from  the  State  University  of 
New  York  at  Binghamton. 

Tolga  Cubukcu  works  as  a  structural 
engineer  for  the  Pyramid  Companies  in  De- 
witt.  New  York. 

George  Mitschang,  a  commander  with 
the  U.S.  Navy,  is  currently  located  in 
Washington,  D.C.  He  holds  an  MS  from 
Cornell  and  a  PhD  from  the  Naval  Post- 
graduate School. 

Gerald  Morris,  vice  president,  treasurer, 
and  chief  financial  officer  of  the  Foxboro 
(Mass.)  Company,  was  recently  elected  to  the 
Boston  chapter  of  the  Financial  Executive 
Institute.  The  Institute  is  a  professional  or- 
ganization of  over  1 2,000  executives  repre- 
senting more  than  6,000  firms  in  the  U.S.  and 
Canada.  Morris  has  a  degree  from  Harvard 
Business  School.  Before  joining  Foxboro,  he 
was  assistant  vice  president  of  the  Textron 
Corp. 

Burton  Shair  is  involved  with  project 
management  at  Stone  dk  Webster,  Houston, 
Texas.  He  is  a  registered  professional  en- 
gineer in  Massachusetts,  Connecticut,  New 
York,  Texas,  and  Alaska. 


1966 


Walter  Chang  is  employed  as  manager  for  Far 
East  Market  Development  at  AEG,  General 
Electric  C^o.,  Lynn,  Mass. 

Alan  George  holds  the  position  of  divi- 
sion training  manager  at  Teradyne,  Inc., 
Northbrook,  Illinois. 

Keith  Knowlton  serves  as  vice  president 
of  Fiberoptics  Technology  in  I'omfret,  Conn. 
He  helped  found  the  company  and  is  also  a 
partner. 


Jan  Moren,  who  returned  from  Belgium 
in  November  of  1980,  is  now  at  Fort  Mon- 
mouth in  New  fersey.  His  wife,  Ann,  is  a 
physical  therapist  at  Monmouth  Rehabilita- 
tion Hospital. 

Laurence  Shea  holds  the  position  of  su- 
perintendent of  engineering  for  Stone  & 
Webster  at  Nine  Mile  Pt.  2  Nuclear  Power 
Station,  Lycoming,  New  York.  He  has  an 
MBA  from  Northeastern. 

Robert  Zahnke  holds  the  post  of  man- 
ager of  engineering  development  at  Pepsico, 
Inc.,  White  Plains,  N.Y. 


1967 


>■  Married:  Joseph  R.  Pyzik  and  Mary  E. 
Cahillane  in  Northampton,  Massachusetts 
on  August  1,  1981.  Mrs.  Pyzik  graduated 
from  Elms  College  and  received  a  master's 
degree  in  education  of  the  deaf  from  Smith 
College.  She  is  employed  by  the  Capital 
Region  Education  Council  for  the  Hearing 
Impaired  in  Wethersfield,  Conn.  Her  hus- 
band has  a  master's  degree  in  business  ad- 
ministration from  the  University  of 
Hartford.  He  is  an  engineering  account 
executive  for  The  Travelers  Insurance  Com- 
pany. 

Ron  Gordon  works  as  a  product  strategy 
and  planning  engineer  for  IBM.  Currently  he 
is  holding  a  temporary  position  with  the 
company  in  Germany. 

Charlie  Proctor  continues  as  president 
of  The  Ski  and  Scuba  Shoppe,  a  retail  busi- 
ness specializing  in  instruction,  sales,  repairs 
of  scuba  and  cross  country  ski  equipment. 
Recently  he  was  promoted  to  program  man- 
ager of  all  T53/TS5  commercial  aviation  and 
marine  turbines  for  AVCO  Lycoming.  Previ- 
ously he  was  in  charge  of  production  en- 
gineering support.  He  has  completed  his 
MBA  at  the  University  of  Bridgeport  and  is 
now  enrolled  in  the  ID  of  law  program.  In  his 
spare  time,  he  enjoys  diving,  fishing,  and 
hunting  with  his  Labrador  retriever.  "Of 
course  I'm  still  building  high  performance 
vehicles.  The  latest  is  a  1954  military  jeep 
with  a  fuel-injected  Chevy  350  and  the  usual 
hne-up  of  goods." 

Deputy  District  Attorney  Howard  Shore 
has  been  named  the  first  prosecutor  to  head 
the  California  State  Bar's  15-member  com- 
mission on  correction.  An  expert  in  psychi- 
atric issues  in  criminal  trials,  he  has  said  the 
reported  link  between  nutrition  and  violent 
behavior  will  draw  top  priority  for  examina- 
tion by  the  commission  in  the  upcoming 
year.  He  says,  ".  .  .  our  goal  is  to  help  reduce 
violence  in  state  prisons  through  changes  in 
prison  diet."  Previously,  Shore  had  been  on 
the  panel  for  the  last  three  years,  last  year 
serving  as  vice  chairman.  The  commission  is 
charged  with  examining  issues  concerning 
jails  and  prisons,  and  making  recom- 
mendations to  the  state  Bar  and  its  legisla- 
tive representative. 

Shore  has  been  with  the  DA's  office 
since  1974,  Also,  he  is  a  professor  in  the 
University  of  San  Diego's  graduate  law  pro- 
gram, teaching  classes  in  scientific  evidence 
and  advanced  evidence. 


.W  I  Wintt'r  /VKP    Thf  Wl>l  Imirnul 


Charles  Sisitsky  has  been  named  the 
permanent  planning  director  of  Natick, 
Mass.  Previously,  he  was  a  city  planner  in 
Medford  for  eleven  years,  and  had  served  as 
assistant  planning  director,  planning  direc- 
tor, and  community  development  coor- 
dinator. He  has  a  master's  degree  in  planning 
from  the  University  of  Rhode  Island. 

John  Yang  is  a  senior  engineer  at  Lock- 
heed Electronics  Co.  in  Plainheld,  N.J. 


1968 


1. 


^-Married:  Dr.  John  J.  Hudak  and  Ann  C 

Lermardtz  in  Worcester  on  October  24,  1 
The  bride,  a  reference  librarian  at  the 
Worcester  Public  Library,  has  a  BS  degree 
from  the  University  of  Minnesota,  as  well  as 
a  master's  degree  in  library  science.  Her 
husband  is  a  physicist  with  the  Department 
of  Defense  in  Washington,  D.C.  He  has  a 
doctorate  degree  in  solid  state  physics  from 
the  University  of  Maryland. 

^Born:  to  Betty  and  Bob  Meader  a 
daughter,  Rebecca,  on  August  28,  1981.  Bob, 
a  civil  engineer  (study  manager)  with  the 
U.S.  Army  Corps  of  Engineers,  has  returned 
to  Mobile,  Alabama  following  a  year  of  spe- 
cial training  in  Washington,  D.C. 

Ivan  Beggs  has  been  promoted  to  assist- 
ant general  supervisor  of  cup  and  cone  grind- 
ing at  the  Timken  Company's  Canton,  Ohio 
bearing  plant.  He  holds  master's  degrees  in 
both  industrial  engineering  and  business 
administration  from  Ohio  State  University. 
In  1979,  he  joined  Timken  as  a  manufactur- 
ing analyst  in  bearing  operations,  the  posi- 
tion he  held  prior  to  his  recent  promotion. 

Robert  Hickey  holds  the  post  of  princi- 
pal software  engineer  at  Honeywell  in  Den- 
ver, Colo. 

Ali  Koseatac  is  now  the  principal  en- 
gineer at  International  Engineering  Co.,  Inc., 
Darien,  Conn. 

Gary  Palulis  was  the  winner  of  the 
Frank  Sannella  Alumni  Race  held  at  WPI  in 
October. 

Frank  Posselt  works  for  TAD  Tech  in 
Cynwyd,  Pa. 

Raymond  Racine  serves  as  assistant 
coordinator  in  the  alternate  energy  depart- 
ment at  Texaco,  Inc.  in  White  Plains,  N.Y. 

Scott  Ramsay  is  now  a  merchandising 
manager  for  Shaw's  Supermarkets,  Inc.  in 
Newington,  N.H. 

Geoffrey  Tamulonis  holds  the  post  of 
manager  of  applications  marketing  at  Digital 
Communications  Corp.,  Germantown,  Md. 
He  is  working  for  his  MBA  at  George 
Washington  University. 

Bruce  Tupper  is  currently  a  resident  in 
the  department  of  surgery  at  the  University 
of  Florida  in  Gainesville.  He  holds  an  MSEE 
from  Stanford  University.  He  has  just  re- 
ceived his  MD  from  Rutgers  Medical  School. 

Stan  Urbanowski  works  as  a  senior  en- 
gineer at  Yankee  Atomic  Electric  Co., 
Framingham,  Mass.  He  and  Claire  have  three 
children  and  hve  in  Sutton. 


1969 


Warren  Anderson  was  recently  promoted  to 
major  in  the  USAF  and  transferred  to  Hick- 
am  AFB  in  Hawaii.  Previously,  he  was  a  pilot 
instructor  for  the  C-5  Galaxy,  the  world's 
largest  aircraft. 

Francis  Archambeault  has  been  named 
associate  professor  of  electronic  engineering 
at  Central  New  England  College,  Worcester. 
He  has  been  with  the  college  for  eight  years. 

James  Atkinson  is  assistant  director  of 
legislation  in  the  Office  of  Policy  Analysis  at 
the  New  Jersey  Department  of  Transporta- 
tion in  Trenton.  He  has  a  Juris  Doctor  degree. 

Ralph  Eschborn  II  works  as  a  senior  sales 
representative  at  du  Pont  in  San  Francisco.  In 
1980,  he  received  his  LLD  from  Delaware 
Law  School.  He  and  Ellen  have  one  child  and 
reside  in  Laguna  Hills. 

Arthur  Evans  has  been  appointed  project 
manager  for  Arabian  American  Oil  Co. 
(Aramco),  of  Goulds  Pumps,  Inc.,  Seneca 
Falls,  N.Y.  He  will  be  responsible  for  the 
preparation  of  all  proposals  to  Aramco,  as 
well  as  acting  as  the  coordinator  of  the 
worldwide  sales  efforts  to  this  account. 


Doug  George  and  his  father,  George 
George,  '41,  have  taken  over  the  manage- 
ment of  the  "9-20"  Motel  in  Northboro, 
along  with  the  West  Boylston  Motel  and 
other  properties  in  eastern  Massachusetts. 
"We  have  completed  a  total  rehab  of  all  the 
'9-20'  rooms,  function  space  and  restaurant," 
Doug  says.  Their  construction  business  has 
slowed,  but  is  still  doing  well  "despite  the 
economy."  The  Georges,  who  have  a  daugh- 
ter, Jamie  Lynne,  3,  are  active  with  the  Con- 
gregational Church. 

Dr.  Roy  Johnson  is  employed  as  an  as- 
sociate engineer  at  Mobil  Research  &.  Devel- 
opment Corp.,  Dallas,  Texas.  Formerly,  he 
was  associate  professor  of  civil  engineering 
at  Auburn  University  in  Alabama. 

Dennis  Murphy  serves  as  a  system  en- 
gineer for  ESL,  Sunnyvale,  Calif. 


The  WPI  lournal  I  Winter  1982131 


I970 


I97I 


^Married:  Daniel  B.  Bentley  to  Daria  B. 
Eckle  in  Guilford,  Connecticut  on  Sep- 
tember 17,  1 98 1 .  The  bride  graduated  from 
Sacred  Heart  University,  Bridgeport.  The 
bridegroom  is  employed  as  a  field  engineer 
for  the  Riley  Stoker  Corporation. 

Last  year  William  Coblenz  received  his 
PhD  m  ceramics  from  MIT,  where  he  re- 
ceived his  master's  degree  in  1977.  He  has 
taken  a  job  as  a  ceramic  engineer  vdth  the 
Naval  Research  Laboratory  in  Washington, 
D.C. 

James  Ford  was  recently  promoted  to 
associate  actuary  within  the  pension  actua- 
nal  orgamzation  at  State  Mutual  Life  Assur- 
ance Company  of  America,  Worcester.  He 
earned  an  MS  in  actuanal  science  degree 
from  Northeastern  in  1973.  In  1977,  he  re- 
ceived the  fellow.  Society  of  Actuaries  pro- 
fessional designation.  After  joining  State 
Mutual  as  an  actuarial  assistant  in  1970,  he 
became  an  actuarial  associate  in  1972.  In 
1975,  he  was  named  senior  actuarial  as- 
sociate and  was  promoted  to  assistant  ac- 
tuary in  1977. 

T.J.  Lelek  holds  the  post  of  national  sales 
manager  for  Gill  &  Duffus  Chemicals,  New 
York  City. 

Cyril  Musson  is  a  mechanical  process 
engineer  at  R.M.  Parsons  Co.,  Pasadena, 
Calif. 

Chet  Napikoski  works  as  an  electrical 
engineer  for  Arizona  Public  Service, 
Phoenix. 

Craig  Olmsted  has  been  appointed  direc- 
tor of  engineering  at  Cutler  Associates,  Inc., 
Worcester.  Previously,  he  worked  for  Chas. 
T.  Main,  Inc.  and  Stone  and  Webster  En- 
gineenng  Corp.  A  registered  professional  en- 
gineer in  Massachusetts,  he  holds  both  a 
bachelor's  and  master's  degree  from  WPI. 

Currently,  Lenny  Polizzotto  holds  the 
post  of  director  of  research  and  development 
at  Bnox  Technologies,  Inc.,  Worcester. 

Laurence  Vallee  is  employed  as  a  project 
manager  at  Cygna  Energy  Services  in  Boston. 
He  says,  "Am  presently  managing  Cygna's 
site  office  at  the  Midland  nuclear  power 
station,  Midland,  Michigan." 

Hans  Van  Den  Biggelaar,  who  holds  a 
PhD  from  WFI,  was  recently  named  a  profes- 
sor of  computer  science  at  St.  Anselm  Col- 
lege, Manchester,  N.H.  Previously,  he  was  a 
member  of  the  faculty  at  Southeastern  Mas- 
sachusetts University,  Skidmore  College, 
andRPI. 

Ross  Weaver  continues  as  president  of 
Gurncy  Engineering  Corp.,  Millbury,  Mass. 
He  writes,  "New  house  under  construction." 


^MaTued:  Thomas  F.  Mirarchi  to  Ellen  T. 
Murley  in  Worcester  on  luly  18,  1981.  Mrs. 
Mirarchi  graduated  from  the  University  of 
Massachusetts,  Amherst,  and  received  her 
master's  degree  from  Worcester  State  Col- 
lege. She  is  an  assistant  education  supervisor 
of  the  Head  Start  Program  in  Worcester.  The 
bridegroom,  who  has  a  master's  degree  from 
RPI,  is  a  senior  development  engineer  at 
Amencan  Optical  Corp.,  Southbridge,  Mass. 

>-Boin:  to  Beverly  and  Paul  Ash  a  daugh- 
ter. Dawn  Marisa,  on  September  17,1981.... 
to  Annie  and  Donald  Usher  their  third  child, 
Cory  Denis,  on  November  13,  1981.  Don  is 
now  a  regional  representative  for  Babcock  & 
Wilcox  in  Houston,  Texas. 

Recently,  William  Beloff  was  promoted 
to  the  position  of  associate  at  Goldberg- 
Zoino  &  Associates,  Inc.,  a  geotechnical  and 
geohydrological  consulting  engineering  firm 
in  Newton  Upper  Falls,  Mass.  Since  joining 
the  ftrm  in  1973,  he  has  been  involved  in  a 
variety  of  geotechnical  instrumentation  pro- 
grams for  rapid  transit  systems,  underground 
powerhouses,  nuclear  power  plants,  and  deep 
foundations.  He  has  worked  in  26  states  and 
in  Panama,  Colombia,  Venezuela,  and 
Paraguay.  As  associate,  he  will  be  in  charge  of 
all  the  firm's  work,  which  includes  a  study  of 
ground  subsidence  over  a  full  extraction  coal 
mine  in  West  Virginia.  He  will  also  continue 
in  his  capacity  as  chief  engineer.  A  registered 
professional  engineer  in  Massachusetts,  he 
belongs  to  numerous  professional  societies 
and  has  published  several  papers  in  the  field 
of  geotechnical  instrumentation. 

Paul  Cleary,  who  graduated  from  the 
University  of  Tulsa  Law  School  last  May, 
was  sworn  in  as  a  member  of  the  Oklahoma 
bar  in  October,  however,  he  is  not  practicing 
law.  Previously  the  political  editor  of  the 
Tulsa  World,  he  was  recently  named  as  an 
editorial  writer  at  the  newspaper.  He  joined 
the  "World"  as  a  part-time  reporter  while 
attending  the  University  of  Tulsa,  later  be- 
coming a  full-time  reporter  and  political 
editor.  His  wife  graduated  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Missouri  Journalism  School  and  "cov- 
ers the  courthouse  beat  for  the  paper." 

Paul  Furcinitti  serves  as  a  research  as- 
sociate in  biophysics  for  Columbia  Univer- 
sity, Radiological  Research  Accelerator 
Facility/Brookhaven  National  Laboratories, 
Upton,  New  York.  He  has  an  MS  and  PhD  in 
physics  from  the  University  of  New  Hamp- 
shire. 

Jack  Greenshields  holds  the  post  of  divi- 
sion purchasing  manager  at  Monsanto  in  St. 
Louis,  Mo.  He  has  an  MBA  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  New  Haven. 

Dr.  Amrik  Pabley  is  an  ophthalmology 
resident  at  U.C.  Davis  Center,  Sacramento, 
Calif.  He  received  his  MD  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Louisville  in  Kentucky  in  1980. 

Thomas  Pandolfi  works  as  a  develop- 
ment engineer  at  Hewlett-Packard  in  Palo 
Alto,  Calif. 

John  Petrillo  participated  in  the  place- 
ment seminar  held  at  Wl'i  in  November.  He 
IS  district  market  manager  for  AT^T  Long 
Lines. 


Paul  Popinchalk,  who  just  returned  from 
Nebraska,  is  now  a  mechanical  designer  for 
Dubin-Bloome  Asso.,  West  Hartford,  Conn. 
He  and  his  wife,  Nancy  Wood  Popinchalk, 
'73,  live  with  their  two  children  in  Norwich. 

Edward  Sherman  has  been  promoted  to 
product  manager  of  Lighting  Products  at 
American  Sterihzer  Company  (AMSCO), 
Erie,  Pa.  His  product  responsibilities  include 
AMSCO's  surgical  lighting  product  line,  au- 
diovisual systems,  and  AMSCOPE  support 
columns.  He  joined  AMSCO  Systems  Divi- 
sion in  1974  as  a  field  superintendent  and 
subsequently  served  as  manager  of  special 
projects  and  product  manager  of  building 
systems.  His  most  recent  position  was  that 
of  assistant  product  manager,  Sterilizer 
Products  Department.  He  has  an  MBA  from 
Gannon  University. 

Thomas  Weil  is  employed  as  a  project 
engineer  at  Badger  America,  Inc.,  Cambridge, 
Mass.  He  has  an  MBA  from  the  University  of 
Houston  and  an  MS  from  UMass. 


1972 


>-Married:  Dr.  Roy  Lindblad  and  Mary- 
Margaret  Bayko  of  Garfield  Heights,  Ohio  on 
September  19,  1981.  The  groom  is  a  dentist 
in  Cleveland.  In  1980  he  received  his  DDS 
from  Case  Western  Reserve  University.  .  .  . 
Bradshaw  B.  Lupton,  Jr.  to  Paula  S.  Jakubiak 
in  Shrewsbury,  Massachusetts  on  June  12, 
198 1 .  The  bride  graduated  from  Quin- 
sigamond  College  and  UMass,  Amherst.  She 
is  conservator  of  works  of  art  on  paper  for  the 
Yale  University  Art  Gallery  and  Yale  Center 
for  British  Art,  New  Haven,  Conn.  Her  hus- 
band serves  as  a  software  analyst  for  Hon- 
eywell Information  Systems,  Billerica,  Mass. 

David  Cummings  has  been  elected 
executive  vice  president  of  the  Lowell  Cor- 
poration, Worcester.  He  is  a  fifth  generation 
family  member  of  the  firm's  founder.  In  1977 
he  joined  Lowell  and  has  been  serving  as 
treasurer  and  director.  He  has  a  master's 
degree  in  business  administration  from  Bab- 
son  College. 

Jean  Eraser  continues  as  a  senior  planner 
for  Land  Use  Consultants  in  London,  En- 
gland. 

William  Kamb  is  a  job  superintendent  at 
Turner  Construction  in  Cleveland,  Ohio. 

David  Meyer  is  now  employed  as  a 
senior  consultant  for  Rath  &.  Strong,  Inc., 
Lexington,  Mass. 

George  Oliver  works  as  a  senior  engineer 
at  Exxon  in  Florham  Park,  N.J. 

Wesley  Pierson  is  employed  as  a  clinical 
research  associate  at  du  Pont  -  Biochemicals 
in  Wilmington,  Oelaware. 

Brian  Savilonis  of  the  WPI  ME  depart- 
ment took  third  place  in  the  Frank  Sannella 
Alumni  Race  at  WPI  in  October. 


32  I  Winter  1982  1  The  Wl'l  lournal 


1973 


^■Married:  Thomas  P.  Cawley  and  Maureen 
I.  Sullivan  in  Dorchester,  Massachusetts  on 
September  26,  1981.  Mrs.  Cawley  is  a  teacher 
and  holds  a  master's  degree  in  education 
hom  Boston  State.  The  groom  continues 
with  Stone  &  Webster  of  Boston. .  .  .  Philip 
N.  Ciarlo  and  Lisa  B.  Plonski  in  Erie, 
Pennsylvania  on  September  4,  1981.  Mrs. 
Ciarlo  is  a  student  at  Gannon  College  in 
Pennsylvania.  The  bridegroom  is  a  manager 
of  materials  at  GE  in  Erie. .  .  .  John  F.  Cirioni 
and  Diana  E.  Gather  in  Massachusetts  re- 
cently. The  bride  graduated  from  Leicester 
Junior  College  and  Northeast  Missouri  State 
University.  She  is  director  of  recreation  for 
the  City  of  Pompano  Beach,  Florida.  Her 
husband  serves  as  a  supervisor  for  Cumber- 
land Farms  Stores  in  Pompano  Beach.  .  .  . 
John  F.  DiGregorio  to  June  A.  Soldato  on 
October  24,  1981  in  Pittsfield,  Mas- 
sachusetts. The  bride  attended  Berkshire 
Community  College.  The  groom  is  a  super- 
visor of  Pittsfield  projects  at  GE  plastics 
technology  department.  Besides  WPI,  he  at- 
tended the  University  of  Evansville  in  In- 
diana and  Union  College. 

^■Manied:  Timothy  Jurzynski  to  Kath- 
leen Franzis  in  Seymour,  Connecticut  on 
November  7,  1981.  Mrs.  Jurzynski  graduated 
from  New  Haven  Academy  of  Business  and  is 
a  secretary  for  Naugatuck  Glass  Co.  Her 
husband,  who  has  an  MBA  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Bridgeport,  is  an  operations  analyst  for 
Naugatuck  Glass.  .  .  .  Kenneth  Lexier  and 
Sue  D.  Jordan  in  Attleboro,  Massachusetts 
on  September  5,  198 1.  The  bride  graduated 
from  the  University  of  Maine  and  was  a 
teacher  in  Attleboro.  The  groom  began  his 
new  post  as  principal  of  Wells  Elementary 
School  in  Maine  last  July. .  .  .  Warren  F. 
Smith  to  Jill  Carpenter  on  August  8,  198 1  in 
Teaneck,  New  Jersey.  The  bride  graduated 
from  Duquesne  University  and  has  a  master 
of  social  work  degree  from  Rutgers.  She  is 
employed  by  the  Continental  Insurance 
Company  as  a  computer  programmer.  Her 
husband  has  an  MS  in  management  science 
and  engineering  from  WPI.  He  is  a  senior 
engineer  with  Air  Cruisers  Company. .  .  . 
Francis  J.  Yopak  and  Mary  Ellen  Reed  on  June 
27,  1981  in  Massachusetts.  The  bride 
graduated  from  St.  Anselm's  College  and  is  a 
graduate  student  in  nursing  at  the  University 
of  Connecticut.  The  groom  works  for  United 
Technologies  Research  Center  in  East 
Hartford,  Corm. 

>-BoTn:  to  Stephen  and  Deborah  La- 
plante  Goodwin  a  son,  Matthew,  on  August 
4,  1981.  Beth  is  5  and  Andrew  is  nearly  3. 
Steve  is  still  employed  as  a  project  engineer 
at  J.E.  Sirrine.  The  family  is  busy  at  home,  at 
church,  and  with  other  activities.  ...  to 
JoArm  and  Richard  Silvestris  a  son,  Jeffrey 
Robert,  on  August  27,  1981.  Jeffrey  has  an 
older  sister,  Julie  Marie.  Silvestris  holds  the 
post  of  production  engineer  in  the  Chemical 
Division  at  Polaroid  in  Waltham,  Mass. 

Thomas  Beckman  continues  as  a  struc- 
tural engineer  for  Gilbert  Associates  of  Read- 
ing, Pa.  He  and  Donna  have  two  children  and 
reside  in  Richland,  Washington. 

Nora  Blum  is  a  senior  engineer  at 
Bechtel  Power  Corp.,  Norwalk,  Calif. 


David  Cirka  is  currently  on  leave  from 
his  post  with  Public  Service  Co.  of  New 
Hampshire,  while  working  on  his  master's 
degree  at  RPI. 

Rick  Garagliano  is  a  senior  process  en- 
gineer at  Thiokol/Dynachem  in  Tustin, 
Calif. 

Glen  Johnson  is  an  associate  professor  at 
Vanderbilt  University,  Nashville,  Term.  He 
has  an  MSME  from  Georgia  Tech  and  a  PhD 
from  Vanderbilt. 

Joel  Loitherstein  serves  as  a  project  en- 
gineer at  Coffin  &  Richardson,  Inc.,  Boston. 

Last  May,  Stephen  Martin  graduated 
from  the  University  of  Rochester  School  of 
Medicine  and  Dentistry.  He  received  his  MD 
and  his  PhD  in  biochemistry,  and  was 
elected  to  Alpha  Omega  Alpha,  a  medical 
honor  society.  His  PhD  work  has  been  pub- 
lished in Biochimica  et  Biophysica  Acta. 
Currently,  Steve  is  doing  an  internship  in 
internal  medicine  at  Rochester  General 
Hospital.  He  will  begin  a  residency  in  oph- 
thalmology at  the  university's  Strong 
Memorial  Hospital  in  July.  His  wife,  Cheryl, 
is  teaching  in  a  gifted  program  for  grades  3-6 
in  a  Rochester  suburb. 

Dr.  Bill  Penney,  assistant  professor  of 
biomedical  engineering  at  WPI,  was  co- 
author of  "An  Overview  of  the  Theory  and 
Some  Applications  of  Impedance  Plethys- 
mography," which  was  presented  at  the  3rd 
Annual  Conference  of  IEEE  Engineering  in 
Medicine  and  Biology  Society,  Frontiers  of 
Engineering  in  Health  Care,  in  Houston  last 
September. 

Michael  Peterson  is  a  consumer  services 
engineer  at  Massachusetts  Electric  Co., 
Leominster,  Mass. 

William  Rutherford  serves  as  a  con- 
struction engineer  for  Stone  and  Webster  in 
Shippingsport,  Pa.  at  the  Beaver  Valley  nu- 
clear site. 

Charles  Scopelitis  was  recently  pro- 
moted to  computer  operations  supervisor  at 
Northeast  Utilities  (NU),  Millstone  Station. 
•  In  1974,  he  joinedNU  as  assistant  engineer  at 
Millstone.  Later  he  was  promoted  to  as- 
sociate engineer  and  engineer.  He  is  a  regis- 
tered professional  engineer  in  Connecticut 
and  a  licensed  electrical  contractor.  He  be- 
longs to  the  IEEE  and  NU's  Nuclear  Speakers 
Bureau.  In  the  community,  Scopelitis  serves 
as  secretary  of  the  Mohegan  Volunteer  Fire 
Company  and  is  a  past  member  of  the 
Montville  (CT)  Board  of  Education.  He  coor- 
dinates internship  programs  at  Millstone  for 
local  high  school  students  who  are  interested 
in  engineering  careers,  and  coordinates  and 
teaches  educational  programs  for  junior  and 
senior  high  school  students. 

Robert  Sykes  is  a  project  engineer  at 
Foster-Miller  Associates,  Inc.,  Waltham, 
Mass 


1974 


Garry  Balboni  took  part  in  the  fall 
placement  seminar  held  at  WPI.  He  is  project 
manager  at  Perini  Corp.,  Framingham,  Mass. 

Erik  Brodin  now  holds  the  post  of  senior 
industrial  engineer  in  the  assembly  division 
at  General  Motors  in  Warren,  Michigan.  The 
Brodins  have  a  daughter,  Christina,  2. 

Paul  Colby  is  a  research  assistant  in  the 
physics  department  at  the  University  of  Wis- 
consin in  Madison. 

Richard  Corey,  who  recently  came  out 
with  a  successful  system  for  achieving  high 
postal  exam  scores,  is  now  writing  a 
consumer- oriented  book  about  security 
alarm  systems.  (He  has  his  own  security 
alarm  business.)  For  five  years  he's  been 
working  on  a  police  projectile  gun  to  disable 
the  electrical  system  of  any  vehicle  being 
pursued  by  authorities.  Doc"  thinks  he's 
close  to  having  it  perfected  and  ready  for 
marketing. 

Last  fall,  Steve  Dacri  performed  at  the 
Magic  Castle  in  Hollywood;  at  Maxine's  in 
Worcester;  and  with  Red  Buttons  in 
Anaheim,  Calif. 

Mathew  DiPilato  has  been  appointed  as 
district  manager  at  Goldberg- Zoino  &.  As- 
sociates, Inc.,  a  geotechnical-geohydro- 
logical  consulting  firm  in  Newton  Upper 
Falls,  Mass.  Since  joining  the  firm  in  1977,  he 
has  been  associated  with  deep  and  shallow 
foundations  projects,  slope  stabihty  and  pro- 
tection problems,  seepage,  dewatering,  and 
groundwater  control  projects.  He  was  re- 
sponsible for  the  geotechnical  aspects  of  de- 
sign and  construction  of  the  surface  and 
cut-and-cover  sections  of  the  Buffalo  Light 
Rail  Rapid  Transit  Project.  He  was  the  prin- 
cipal author  for  a  recently  completed  re- 
search report  for  the  U.S.  Department  of 
Transportation,  entitled  "Design  and 
Analysis  for  Railroad  Track  Substructures." 
A  member  of  the  ASCE,  he  also  belongs  to 
the  Boston  Society  of  Civil  Engineers,  and 
the  National  Water  Well  Association.  He  is  a 
registered  professional  engineer  in  Mas- 
sachusetts. 

Joe  Downey  serves  as  a  product  market- 
ing specialist  at  Foxboro  Analytical  in 
Plymouth,  Mass. 

Bob  Foley  now  holds  the  post  of  man- 
ufacturing supervisor  at  Texas  Instruments 
in  Attleboro,  Mass.  He  recently  left  the  U.S. 
Marine  Corps  following  seven  years  of  ser- 
vice. 

Bill  Frazier  is  a  design  engineer  for  Vir- 
ginia Electric  &.  Power  Co.  in  Richmond,  Va. 

Thomas  Frink  continues  as  an  electrical 
engineer  at  Maiden  Mills,  Inc.,  Lawrence, 
Mass. 

James  Grenier  is  currently  a  math 
teacher  at  Sunapee  (N.H.)  High  School.  He 
holds  an  MS  in  mathematics  from  WPI. 

Leon  Kassel  holds  the  post  of  senior  vice 
president  at  Multibanco  Comermex  in 
Mexico  City. 

Bruce  Lyon  serves  as  an  analyst  for 
Schlumberger  in  Houston,  Texas. 

David  McGuigan  continues  as  a 
member  of  the  technical  staff  at  Bell  Tele- 
phone Labs  in  Holmdel,  N.J. 


>-BoTn:  to  Anne  and  Christopher  Cigal  their 
first  child,  Stephen  Matthew,  on  May  19, 
1981.  Chris,  an  Army  captain,  has  been  an 
assistant  professor  of  military  science  at 
Washington  &.  Jefferson  College  in 
Washington,  Pa.,  since  1979. 


The  WPI  loiiwal  I  Winter  1982133 


David  Nickless  was  recently  admitted  to 
the  Massachusetts  bar,  after  receiving  his 
Juris  Doctor  degree  from  Suffolk  University 
School  of  Law.  Previously,  he  spent  nearly 
five  yeais  in  the  U.S.  Army  from  which  he 
resigned  as  a  captain.  Currently,  he  is  a 
member  of  the  firm  of  Marullo  and  Barnes  in 
Boston. 

Mark  Ostergren  is  an  engineering  coor- 
dinator at  Babcock  &.  Wilcox,  North  Canton, 
Ohio. 

Stanley  Purington  is  an  engineer- 
programmer  at  Kentron  International  in  San 
Diego,  Calif. 

Lawrence  Saint,  Jr.  holds  the  position  of 
plant  manager  for  George  Schmitt  ik  Co., 
Suffolk,  Va. 

Glenn  Yee  is  commercial  manager  for 
the  Asia-Pacific  region  of  Continental  Can 
International  Corp.,  a  wholly-owned  sub- 
sidiary of  Continental  Group,  Inc.  He  is 
located  in  Hong  Kong  as  an  expatnate  on  an 
overseas  assignment. 


1975 


^Married:  Allen  G.  Downs  and  Donna  M. 
Mericnyak  on  August  29,  198 1  in  Hun- 
tington, Connecticut.  Mrs.  Downs  attended 
the  University  of  New  Haven,  West  Haven. 
The  groom  is  a  student  at  Harvard  Business 
School.  He  has  a  master's  degree  in  chemical 
engineering  from  the  University  of  Pennsyl- 
vania. 

Kent  Berwick  holds  the  post  of  manager 
of  customer  service  at  Aviation  Simulation 
Technology,  Bedford,  Mass.  He  is  also  a 
C- 130  pilot  and  lieutenant  in  the  USAF  Re- 
serve. 

Richard  Bloom  was  recently  elected 
president  of  Independent  Glass  Company  of 
Rhode  Island,  Inc.  With  the  firm  for  seven 
years,  he  has  been  vice  president  for  the  last 
four.  Also,  he  is  president  of  Auto  Security 
Systems  of  Rhode  Island  and  a  general  part- 
ner in  Independent  Realty  Company.  Inde- 
pendent Glass  is  located  in  Providence. 

Louis  Christoforo  works  for  Tech  HiFi 
in  Randolph,  Mass. 

Bradford  Esten  is  an  actuarial  associate 
at  Transamcrica-Occidental,  Los  Angeles, 
Cahf. 

Henry  Fitzgerald  holds  the  position  of 
program  manager  at  Data  Packaging  Corp., 
Cambndge,  Mass.,  for  the  consumer  and 
medical  divisions. 

David  Giddings  serves  as  a  research 
chemist  at  Ferro  Corp. Technical  Center  in 
Bedford,  Ohio.  He  will  soon  receive  his  PhD 
from  Brandcis. 

Steven  Harvey  is  a  first-year  MBA  stu- 
dent at  the  Wharton  School  at  the  University 
of  Pennsylvania. 

Robert  Hickey  is  a  program  analyst  at 
GE  in  Springfield,  Va. 

Louis  Isgur  serves  as  a  senior  manufac- 
turing engineer  at  McDonnell  Douglas  Corp. 
Astronautics  C'o  ,  Huntington  Beach,  Cahf. 
He  has  an  MBA  from  Suffolk  University 
Graduate  School  of  Business. 


Gary  Kiontke  has  been  elected  assistant 
actuary  at  Monarch  Life  Insurance  Co., 
Springfield,  Mass.  He  joined  the  actuanal 
department  in  1977.  Previously,  he  was 
senior  actuarial  assistant.  Recently  named  a 
fellow  of  the  Society  of  Actuaries,  he  is  also  a 
member  of  the  American  Academy  of  Ac- 
tuaries. He  attended  the  University  of  Con- 
necticut's School  of  Insurance. 

Stephen  Murphy  is  employed  as  a  sys- 
tems engineer  at  GTE  in  Needham,  Mass. 

Peter  Schwartz  holds  the  position  of 
director  of  marketing  at  MFE  Corp.  in  Salem, 
N.H. 

Margaret  St.  John  continues  as  a  re- 
search assistant  at  the  University  of  Ne- 
braska Medical  School.  She  is  doing  research 
in  cancer. 

Paul  Varadian,  who  has  a  degree  in  con- 
struction management  from  WPI,  is  working 
with  a  partner  and  several  investors  (North 
High  Associates)  in  Worcester  converting 
the  former  North  High  School  into  con- 
dominium units.  Renovations  were  sched- 
uled to  start  in  late  November  with  a  ten- 
month  construction  schedule  planned. 
When  complete,  Varadian  says  that  the  $5.6 
million  renovation  project  will  yield  54  lux- 
ury condominiums  selling  from  $90,000  to 
$190,000  each.  The  showpiece  unit  will  be 
the  one  that  includes  the  tower  of  the  old 
building,  which  will  boast  18-ft.  ceilings. 
The  development  will  be  called  North  High 
Gardens. 

David  Williams  works  as  a  transporta- 
tion planner  for  the  city  and  county  of  Den- 
ver, Colorado.  He  has  been  with  the  Denver 
planning  office  since  last  March. 


1976 


^■MaTried:  Mark  P.  Barry  to  Michelle 
Nejaime  recently  in  Goshen,  Connecticut. 
The  bride  graduated  from  Becker  and  is  em- 
ployed at  Formley  and  Martin  in  Boston.  The 
bridegroom  currently  attends  Northeastern 
University. .  .  .  Robert  R.  Cormier  and 
Donna  M.  Larose  in  Nashua,  New  Hamp- 
shire on  September  19,  1 98 1 .  The  bride,  a 
graduate  of  Nashua  High  School,  is  em- 
ployed as  a  sales  correspondent  by  Nashua 
Corp.  Her  husband  is  a  civil  engineer  at  Allan 
H.  Swanson,  Inc.  .  .  .  Kevin  B.  Hastings  to 
Kathleen  Kelly  in  Princeton,  Massachusetts 
on  August  23,  1981.  Mrs.  Hastings  graduated 
from  Assumption  College  and  is  a  nursing 
student  at  St.  Francis  School  of  Nursing, 
Hartford,  Conn.  The  bridegroom,  a  student 
at  Hartford  Graduate  Center  of  RPI  in  Gro- 
ton.  Conn.,  serves  as  a  contracts  adminis- 
trator at  Northeast  Utilities  Service  Co., 
Waterford. 

>Married:  Joseph  T.  Martowski  to 
Dawn  M.  Baird  recently  in  Gilbertvillc,  Mas- 
sachusetts. Mrs.  Martowski  attended  Si- 
mons Rock  College  and  graduated  with  a  BA 
in  psychology  from  North  Adams  State  Col- 
lege. She  was  employed  by  Valley  Human 
Services  in  Ware  as  a  caseworker,  and  is 
currently  a  representative  of  the  Mutual  of 
Omaha  insurance  Co.  Her  husband  is  a  qual- 
ity control  engineer  forGE  in  I'lttsfieki, 
Mass.  .  .  ,  James  A.  Morocco  and  loAnn 
Berthiaume  on  lune  6,  198  I  in  Worcester. 


Mrs.  Morocco  graduated  from  the  former  St. 
Peter's  Central  Catholic  High  School  and  is 
employed  in  the  accounting  department  of 
Home  Federal  Savings  &  Loan  Association. 
Her  husband  is  a  civil  engineer  with  the  U.S. 
Army  Corps  of  Engineers  in  Waltham,  Mass. 
.  .  .  Michael  P.  Petrishen  and  Debora  M. 
Abraham  in  Salem,  Massachusetts  on  Sep- 
tember 12,  198 1.  Mrs.  Petrishen  graduated 
from  North  Shore  Community  College.  She 
is  lead  singer  in  "Portraits  in  Sound,"  a 
general  business  band.  The  bridegroom  is  a 
computer  programmer  at  Massachusetts 
Mutual  Life  Insurance  Company  and  is  also  a 
sax  player  for  the  same  band.  .  .  .  William  B. 
Wood  to  Elizabeth  A.  Hanlon,  '78  on  June  6, 
198 1  in  Worcester.  The  bride  is  with  the 
research  and  development  department  at 
Sylvania  Corp.,  Needham,  Mass.  The  groom 
works  as  a  civil  engineer  at  J.M.  Cashman 
Co.,  Weymouth. 

William  Baker,  a  major  in  the  U.S. 
Army,  is  currently  assigned  as  a  full-time 
student  in  the  master's  program  at  Florida 
Institute  of  Technology,  Ft.  Lee  branch. 

Charles  Bellemer  is  employed  as  a 
chemical  process  engineer  at  Multiwire, 
Nashua,  N.H. 

Noreen  Borys  serves  as  a  senior  project 
engineer  for  Exxon  USA  in  Los  Angeles, 
Cahf. 

William  Burke  is  currently  employed  at 
the  Lahey  Clinic  Foundation  Department  of 
Neurosurgery  in  Burlington,  Mass.  He  holds 
a  BS  as  a  physician's  associate  from  the 
George  Washington  University  School  of 
Medicine  and  Health  Sciences,  Washington, 
D.C. 

John  Casey  works  as  a  general  foreman 
at  Electric  Boat/General  Dynamics  in  Gro- 
ton.  Conn.  Last  year  he  received  his  MBA 
from  RPI. 

Mark  Coulson  is  a  staff  engineer  at 
PSNH,  Seabrook  Station,  Seabrook,  N.H. 

David  DeMeo  is  a  first-year  student  at 
Wharton  Graduate  School  of  Business,  Uni- 
versity of  Pennsylvania,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Richard  Enos  is  an  associate  planner  for 
Brevard  County,  Fla.,  Merritt  Island.  He  and 
Marsha  hve  in  Cocoa. 

Bruce  Lamarre  works  as  a  project  en- 
gineer at  Roy  F.  Weston,  Inc.,  Concord,  N.H. 
He  and  Julie  have  three  children  and  reside  in 
Boscawen. 

Wayne  Lundblad  is  employed  as  man- 
ager of  engineering  at  R.D.  Brew  Co.,  Inc., 
Conord,  N.H. 

Thomas  McAloon  is  now  a  senior  sani- 
tary engineer  at  the  New  Hampshire  Water 
Supply  and  Pollution  Control  Commission. 
He  is  actively  involved  in  ballet  and  theatre, 
the  most  recent  production  being  "Gypsy" 
with  the  Concord  Community  Players. 

William  Mullen  is  a  hydraulic  engineer 
for  the  U.S.  Geological  Survey,  Lakewood, 
Colorado. 

Dr.  Earl  Myers  is  president  and  founder 
of  Precision  Materials,  Inc.,  Rochester,  N.Y. 
The  firm  was  incorporated  on  May  19,  1981. 
It  deals  with  laser  systems  for  use  in  heat 
treating,  cutting,  drilling,  welding,  alloying, 
cladding,  and  similar  types  of  materials  pro- 
cessing activities.  Currently,  it  is  in  the 
process  of  purchasing  a  $  1 .5  million  laser 
system,  and  it  expects  to  spend  around  three 
million  dollars  more  on  equipment  in  the 
next  few  months.  The  company  employs 
engineers,  mamifactunng  people,  and  tech- 


34  I  Winter  19H2   The  Wl'l  lournal 


nicians.  It  plans  to  have  about  130  people  on 
the  payroll  with  a  12  to  15  million  dollar 
gross  business  within  the  next  year. 

Raymond  Robey  serves  as  a  senior  re- 
search engineer  at  Air  Products  and  Chemi- 
cals in  Allentown,  Pa.  He  leads  a  technical 
program  in  supercritical  fluids  extraction 
technology  at  the  company. 

James  Russo  is  a  project  manager  at 
Charles  Jewett  Corp.,  Glastonbury,  Conn. 

Dr.  David  Sawyer  works  as  a  senior 
research  engineer  in  the  Solar  Energy  Divi- 
sion at  Chevron  Research  Co.,  Richmond, 
Cahf. 

Steven  Schoen  is  employed  as  assistant 
group  actuary  at  Sun  Life  of  Canada  in 
Wellesley  Hills,  Mass.  After  becoming  a  fel- 
low of  the  Society  of  Actuaries  in  1980,  he 
was  promoted  to  his  present  post  in  February 
of  1981. 

James  Sieminski  is  a  computer  systems 
consultant  for  Computec  in  Simi  Valley, 
Cahf. 

Paula  Stratouly  holds  the  post  of  as- 
sociate mechanical  engineer  at  Fluor  En- 
gineers &  Constructors,  Houston,  Texas. 

Kevin  Wall  is  now  a  student  at  Yale 
University.  He  has  a  master's  degree  from 
RPI. 

Edward  Wright  serves  as  a  research  en- 
gineer for  Caterpillar  Tractor  Co.  in  Peoria, 
111. 

Yinmin  Yang  is  currently  a  graduate 
student  at  Carnegie-Mellon  University, 
Pittsburgh,  Pa.,  where  he  is  working  for  his 
PhD. 


1977 

^Married:  William  L.  Collier  to  Janice  E. 
Caminiti  m  Portland,  Maine  on  October  10, 
1 98 1 .  The  bride  graduated  from  Deering 
High  School  and  works  for  Bar  Harbor  Air- 
Unes.  Her  husband  is  employed  at  Collier's 
Nursing  Home,  Ellsworth. .  .  .  Paul  D.  Curdo 
and  Joy  M.  House  in  Westford,  Mas- 
sachusetts. Mrs.  Curdo  graduated  from  Bur- 
bank  Hospital  School  of  Nursing,  Fitchburg 
and  is  an  RN  at  Kaiser  Permanente,  San 
Diego,  Calif.  Her  husband  is  a  structural 
engineer  with  General  Dynamics,  San  Diego. 
.  .  .  David  Kinder  and  Cynthia  Bouvier, '78  in 
Webster,  Massachusetts  on  August  30,  1981. 
The  bride  was  formerly  with  the  North 
Carolina  Department  of  Transportation.  The 
groom,  who  had  been  with  Data  General,  is 
now  a  senior  apphcations  engineer  for  Intel 
Corp.,  Alhoa,  Oregon. .  .  .  Ralph  Sacco  to 
Carol  Bliss  in  Cranston,  Rhode  Island  on 
September  20,  1 98 1.  Mrs.  Sacco  graduated 
from  Rhode  Island  Junior  College  and  is 
employed  by  Co-Op  Tech.  Her  husband  is 
with  Westinghouse  of  Framingham.  .  .  . 
Michael  L.  Wagner  and  Eileen  B.  Brill  in 
Burhngton,  Vermont  on  September  12,  1981. 
The  bride  attended  Edinburgh  University  in 
Scotland  and  graduated  from  Cornell  Uni- 
versity. She  is  a  free-lance  writer.  The  groom 
is  a  development  engineer  at  Honeywell 
Electro-Optics  Center,  Lexington,  Mass. 


>Born:  to  Claire  and  Albert  DeFusco  a 
son  on  April  24,  198 1  in  Burlington,  Ver- 
mont. DeFusco,  who  received  his  PhD  in 
chemistry  from  the  University  of  Vermont 
last  June,  has  received  a  National  Research 
Council  post-doctoral  award  at  the  China 
Lake  Naval  Weapons  Center,  China  Lake, 
California. 

John  Albernaz  is  an  R&D  engineer  for 
GTE  Sylvania,  Waltham,  Mass.,  and  is  cur- 
rently working  on  site  at  Kwajalein  in  the 
Marshall  Islands. 

Fred  Baker  has  been  promoted  to  CRT 
design  engineer  at  Tektronix,  Inc.  His  job 
involves  developing  low  cost  manufacturing 
methods  for  portable  oscilloscope  tubes. 
Also,  he  is  pursing  an  MS  degree  in  applied 
physics  at  the  Oregon  Graduate  Center.  "In 
my  spare  time,  I  am  raising  sunflowers  and 
ducks." 

David  Bolin  is  a  senior  scientist  at 
Hoffmann-LaRoche,  Nutley,  N.J.  He  re- 
cently received  his  PhD  from  MIT. 

Leonard  Clow  is  a  freshman  student 
doctor  at  the  New  England  College  of  Os- 
teopathic Medicine  in  Biddeford,  Maine. 
Previously,  he  received  a  master's  degree  in 
biochemistry  from  Kansas  State  University, 
Manhattan,  Kansas. 

Stephen  Coleman  was  recently  pro- 
moted to  senior  actuarial  associate  within 
the  group  pension  actuarial  organization  at 
State  Mutual  in  Worcester.  Following  his 
graduation  from  WPI,  he  began  work  at  State 
Mutual  as  an  actuarial  assistant.  In  1978  he 
was  promoted  to  actuarial  associate. 

Bill  Cuimingham,  Ron  Howard,  and 
Henry  LeBlanc  participated  in  the  placement 
seminar  held  on  campus  in  November.  Bill  is 
at  Amos  Tuck  School,  Dartmouth.  Ron  is 
president  of  DatabiHty  Software  Systems, 
New  York  City,  and  Henry  is  project  man- 
ager at  Mobil  Oil's  Chemical  Division  in 
Macedon,  New  York. 

Asta  Dabrila  is  now  a  naval  architect  at 
Portsmouth  (N.H.)  Naval  Shipyard. 

Kurt  Eisenman  serves  as  a  product  sales 
manager  at  Parker  Hannifin  in  Metamora, 
Ohio. 

William  Farrell,  Jr.  is  with  Exxon  Co. 
USA  in  Houston,  Texas. 

Subash  Ganguli  works  as  a  program 
manager  at  PS  Ltd.  in  Fairfield,  N.J. 

Stephen  Golden  is  employed  as  a  direc- 
tor at  Highland  Imports,  hic,  Marlboro, 
Mass. 

Capt.  Michael  Gregory  has  graduated 
v/ith  honors  from  U.S.  Air  Force  pilot  train- 
ing and  has  been  awarded  his  silver  wings  at 
Holloman  AFB,  New  Mexico.  He  will  now 
fly  the  F- 1 5  at  Holloman. 

John  Nyquist  continues  with  Procter  & 
Gamble  in  Cincinnati.  He  holds  a  master's 
degree  in  chemical  engineering  from  the 
University  of  Michigan. 

Judith  O'Brien  serves  as  a  coordinator  of 
electronic  controls  at  GE  in  Columbia,  Md. 
Ron  O'Connor  works  as  a  research  as- 
sistant at  St.  Vincent  Hospital,  Worcester. 
Last  May  he  received  his  master  of  pubhc 
health  degree  from  the  University  of  Michi- 
gan. 

Mark  Puputti  continues  as  a  production 
engineer  at  Polaroid  Corp.,  Waltham,  Mass. 
H.  P.  Ruefenacht  is  assistant  vice  presi- 
dent at  SGI,  Consulting  Engineers,  Geneva, 
Switzerland. 


Edward  Smith  works  as  a  senior  project 
engineer  at  Astra  Pharmaceutical  Products, 
Inc.,  Worcester. 

Theodore  Tamburro  works  as  a  systems 
engineer  at  IBM  in  Waltham,  Mass.  Last  year 
he  received  his  MS  from  American  Univer- 
sity in  Washington,  D.C. 

Mike  Thorogood,  who  was  married  last 
April,  is  currently  a  research  engineer  (R&.D) 
at  National  Steel  Corp.  in  Weirton,  West 
Virginia.  He  recently  completed  a  three-year 
tour  as  an  Army  officer. 

Linda  Weiss  is  currently  in  the  PhD 
program  at  the  University  of  Illinois  with  a 
research  assistantship  through  the  Illinois 
State  Water  Survey. 

John  Zimmerman  works  at  the  Marine 
Sciences  Research  Center  at  SUNY,  Stony 
Brook,  N.Y. 


1978 


^Married:  Kevin  S.  Ingle  and  Sandra  L. 
Pisarski  in  Worcester  on  August  8,  1981. 
Mrs.  Ingle  graduated  from  Becker  and 
Worcester  State  College.  She  is  a  sales  secre- 
tary at  Commonwealth  Gas  Co.,  Southboro, 
Mass.  The  bridegroom  serves  as  a  financial 
and  electronic-data-processing  analyst  at 
Jamesbury  Corp.  He  has  just  completed  his 
MBA  at  Babson  College. .  .  .  Steven  McLaf- 
ferty  and  Leslie  Anderson  in  Northampton, 
Massachusetts  on  September  12,  1981.  The 
bride,  who  holds  a  BA  in  Spanish  and  English 
from  the  University  of  New  Hampshire,  is  a 
marketing  specialist  for  major  accounts  at 
Wang  Laboratories,  Inc.,  Lowell,  Mass.  Her 
husband  holds  the  post  of  electrical  design 
engineer  at  CSPI  in  Billerica. .  .  .  Paul  A. 
Peterson  to  Mary  Ann  Keefe  in  Worcester  on 
June  20,  1981.  Mrs.  Peterson  graduated  from 
Assumption  College  and  is  a  day-care 
teacher  at  the  Living  and  Learning  School. 
The  groom  serves  as  a  chemical  engineer  at 
American  Hoechst  Corp.,  Leominster. .  .  . 
Reginald  Roome  II  and  Susan  J.  Santora  on 
September  12,  1981  in  North  Grafton,  Mas- 
sachusetts. The  bride,  a  graduate  of  the 
Memorial  Hospital  School  of  Nursing, 
Worcester,  is  a  student  at  Worcester  State 
College.  She  was  an  RN  at  Memorial  Hospi- 
tal. Her  husband  serves  as  a  structural  en- 
gineer at  LeMesseurier  Associates,  Cam- 
bridge. .  .  .  David  Tate  and  Linda  Fisk  on 
September  19,  1981  in  Amherst,  New  Hamp- 
shire. The  bride  graduated  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  New  Hampshire  and  from  Framing- 
ham  State,  where  last  year  she  received  her 
MS  in  nutrition.  She  is  employed  at  the 
Manchester  Veterans  Administration  Medi- 
cal Center.  The  groom  works  as  a  senior 
software  engineer  at  Sanders  Associates, 
Nashua,  N.H. 


The  WPI  Journal  I  Winter  1982135 


William  Alexander  continues  as  a  proj- 
ect engineer  at  Cincinnati-Milacron,  Heald 
Division,  Worcester. 

Michael  Almeida  is  an  engineer- 
estimator  at  Perim  Corp.,  Framingham, 
Mass. 

Paul  Avakian  is  now  senior  product 
marketing  engineer  for  NEC  Electronics 
U.S.A.,  Inc.,  in  the  Microcomputer  Division 
inNatick,  Mass. 

Michael  Beaudoin  is  a  student  at  Purdue 
University,  West  Lafayette,  Ind.  He  has 
taken  a  leave  of  absence  from  Golden  Assoc. 
in  Atlanta,  Ga.  to  pursue  his  master's  degree 
in  civil  engineering. 

Ralph  Castriotta  is  a  student  at  the  Med- 
ical University  of  South  Carolina  in 
Charleston. 

Mae  Wright  Dameron  is  the  new  Energy 
Roundtable  program  manager  at  Westing- 
house  Corp.  in  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  Pnor  to  her 
current  appointment,  she  was  a  participant 
in  Westinghouse's  Campus  America  Pro- 
gram and  technical  advisor  at  the  Salem 
nuclear  plant  in  New  Jersey. 

Mary  Donovan  was  recently  appointed 
to  the  Conservation  Commission  in  Acton, 
Mass.  For  the  past  two  years  she  has  been  a 
civil  engineer  with  the  Army  Corps  of  En- 
gineers. Earlier,  she  was  a  member  of  Mary- 
land's Soil  Conservation  Service. 

Mark  Duchesne  works  as  a  project  en- 
gineer at  Harris  Corp.,  NPD,  Dover,  N.H. 

Pierre  Fleurant  is  now  an  electrical  en- 
gineer in  the  products  development  depart- 
ment at  High  Voltage  Engineering,  Bur- 
lington, Mass.  He  is  also  a  category  IV  senior 
in  the  United  States  Cycle  Federation 
(USCF),  and  rides  with  the  New  England 
Bicycle  Club  (NEBC).  He  finished  ninth  out 
of  nearly  100  racers  in  the  New  England 
Championships  held  in  Charlestown,  R.I. 
over  Labor  Day. 

Dean  Giacopassi  has  left  his  position  as 
a  lead  engineer  in  CAD  CAM  at  the  Boeing 
Commercial  Airplane  Company,  Seattle, 
Washington,  to  return  to  WPI  as  a  teaching 
assistant.  He  is  studying  for  his  master's 
degree  in  mechanical  engineering. 

Herbert  Holmes  continues  as  a  highway 
engineer  for  the  Federal  Highway  Adminis- 
tration in  Tallahassee,  Florida. 

David  Jones  serves  as  a  liaison  engineer 
for  du  Pont  in  Wilmington,  Delaware.  At  the 
present  time,  he  is  working  on  renovations  to 
restart  a  mothballcd  defense  nuclear  reactor. 

Carlton  Klein  has  been  working  as  a 
strategy  analyst  at  GE  in  Fairfield,  Conn.  In 
September  he  took  a  leave  of  absence  to 
finish  his  last  year  at  Harvard. 

Ruth  Lipman,  a  graduate  student  at  WPI, 
attended  the  Symposium  on  Ocular  and  Vis- 
ual Development  m  Philadelphia  last  lune. 
That  same  month  she  also  attended  the  Tis- 
sue Culture  Association  meeting  in 
Washington. 

Robert  Lundin  received  his  doctor  of 
dental  medicine  degree  from  Tufts  Univer- 
sity in  lune.  Currently,  he  is  a  general  dental 
officer  for  the  Department  of  Health  and 
Human  Services,  Public  Health  Service,  in 
Rockville,  Md 

Francis  Marchand  works  as  a  product 
engineer  at  MPB  Corp  in  Keene,  N.H. 

David  Markey  is  a  research  engineer  at 
Wyman-Gordon,  North  Cirafton,  Mass.  Last 
year  he  received  his  MS  from  RPL 


Joseph  Maslar  continues  as  an  MBA  stu- 
dent at  the  University  of  California  at 
Berkeley. 

I  Lt.  Marc  McCalmont  has  reported  for 
duty  with  the  Marine  All  Weather  Attack 
Squadron  224,  Marine  Corps  Air  Station, 
Cherr>'  Point,  N.C.  He  joined  the  Marine 
Corps  in  1978. 

Lou  Nay  is  CSSE  manager  for  Digital 
Equipment  Corp.,  Marlboro,  Mass.  The  Nays 
live  in  Wayland  and  have  two  children. 

Woodrow  Saccoccio  has  been  promoted 
to  associate  engineer  at  Northeast  Utilities 
in  Connecticut.  He  joined  NU  last  year  as  an 
assistant  engineer  in  the  generation  en- 
gineering instrumentation  and  control  de- 
partment. Besides  WPI,  he  attended  Ripon 
College  in  Wisconsin. 

Last  year,  Joseph  Sage  received  his  mas- 
ter's degree  in  architecture  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Wisconsin  at  Milwaukee.  He  is  now 
an  architect-planner  for  the  Ehrenkrantz 
Group,  New  York  City. 

John  Vestri,  Jr.  works  as  a  production 
control  administrator  at  Hughes  Aircraft 
Co.,  Fullerton,  Calif. 

Dean  Wilcox  is  one  of  the  first  four 
employees  of  the  Electric  Boat  Division  of 
General  Dynamics  selected  to  participate  in 
a  new  executive  training  course  called  the 
Advanced  Career  Development  Program. 
The  program  is  designed  to  support  the  ship- 
yard's upper  management  needs  and  re- 
quirements. In  the  two-and-a-half  year  pro- 
gram, the  participants  will  undertake  three 
special  assignments  with  assistant  general 
managers  and  two  shipyard  assignments  in 
such  areas  as  trades,  testing  and  engineering. 
At  the  conclusion  of  the  program,  they  will 
be  placed  in  key  shipyard  management  posts 
at  headquarters  in  Groton,  Conn.  Wilcox 
joined  Electric  Boat  in  1978. 


1979 


^■Married:  Annemarie  Bernard  to  Ernest  G. 
Nelson  on  October  10,  1 98 1 .  The  bride  is  a 
programmer/analyst  at  Norton  Co.,  and  is 
studying  for  her  MBA  at  WPI.  Her  husband  is 
an  industrial  engineer  at  Norton.  He  has  a  BS 
in  engineering  from  Lowell  Tech  and  an 
MBA  from  Clark.  .  .  .  Douglas  C.  Clark  and 
Deborah  Megill  in  Naugatuck,  Connecticut 
on  September  26,  198 1 .  Mrs.  Clark  graduated 
from  Becker  with  a  degree  in  physical 
therapy.  Formerly,  she  was  employed  in  the 
office  of  American  Refining  and  Chemical. 
The  bridegroom  is  a  computer  design  en- 
gineer for  Pratt  &.  Wliitncy  Aircraft  in  East 
Hartford. .  .  .  Thomas  O.  Converse  and  Hol- 
lie  I.  Guettler  on  June  20,  1 98 1  in  Adams, 
Massachusetts.  The  bride  attended  Berkshire 
Community  College,  Pittsfield.  Her  husband 
is  with  W.C.  Grace  &  Co.  .  .  .  William  P. 
Donoghue  toMary  E.  Morelli  in  New  Britain, 
Connecticut  on  October  17,  198 1 .  The  bride 
graduated  from  St.  Joseph  College  and  is 
employed  in  the  Office  of  Grants  Adminis- 
tration and  Welfare  Department  for  the  City 
of  New  Britain.  The  groom  serves  as  an 
electrical  design  engineer  for  Hamilton 
Standard,  Windsor  Locks. 


^Married:  William  H.  Englemann  and 

Phyllis  Ann  White  in  Arlington,  Mas- 
sachusetts. The  bride  graduated  from  Ar- 
lington High  School  and  is  employed  by 
Raytheon  Corp.,  Lexington.  The  groom 
works  for  Analog  Devices,  Norwood,  Mass. 
.  .  .  Thomas  McCoU  to  Beth  DiMaggio  on 
August  22,  198 1  in  NorwichtowTi,  Connect- 
icut. The  bride  graduated  from  Assumption 
College,  Worcester,  Mass.  The  groom  is  with 
Electric  Boat-General  Dynamics  in  Groton, 
Conn.  .  .  .  Donald  O.  Patten,  Jr.  and  Janice  L. 
Costello  on  August  29,  198 1  in  Morris,  New 
York.  Mrs.  Patten  graduated  from  Becker  and 
has  been  studying  for  her  BS  degree  in  physi- 
cal therapy  at  the  University  of  Connecticut 
at  Storrs.  Her  husband  is  employed  in  man- 
ufacturing management  by  Procter  & 
Gamble. 

^■Marned:  Jeffrey  L.  Sauer  to  Deborah  F. 
Spear  in  Danbury,  Connecticut  on  October 
24,  198 1.  The  bride  graduated  from  Westem 
Connecticut  State  College  with  a  BS  in  biol- 
ogy and  secondary  education.  She  teaches 
science  at  Westhill  High  School,  Stamford. 
The  groom  is  with  Perkin-Elmer  Corp.  in 
Danbury. .  .  .  Lt.  Thomas  H.  Soszynski, 
USAF.  and  Lt.  Christine  M.  Aziz  in  Leomin- 
ster, Massachusetts  on  August  22,  1981.  The 
bride  graduated  from  Leicester  Junior  Col- 
lege, received  her  BS  from  Worcester  State, 
and  was  enrolled  in  the  ROTC  program  at 
Holy  Cross,  where  she  received  her  commis- 
sion in  1980.  The  groom  earned  his  wings  in  a 
USAF  ceremony  in  Columbus,  Miss,  last 
March,  and  previously  received  his  ROTC 
commission  at  Holy  Cross.  Currently,  he  is 
stationed  with  the  Strategic  Air  Command 
in  Plattsburgh,  N.Y. 

^Married:  Craig  H.  Thompson  and 
Shari  A.  Anable  in  Westboro,  Massachusetts 
on  August  29,  1981.  The  bride,  a  graduate  of 
Westboro  High  School,  was  a  nurse's  aide  at 
Westboro  Nursing  Home.  Her  husband  is  a 
student  at  Syracuse  University.  He  was  em- 
ployed by  Bigelow's  Nursery,  Northboro. .  .  . 
Susan  M.  Turner  and  William  C.  Dass  in 
Auburn,  Massachusetts  on  October  10,  1981. 
Mrs.  Dass  holds  a  master's  degree  in 
geotechnical  engineering  from  Cornell  Uni- 
versity. She  is  a  geotechnical  engineer  for 
D'Appolonia  in  Albuquerque.  The  bride- 
groom has  a  master  of  engineering  degree 
from  Cornell  and  is  a  research  geotechnical 
engineer  for  Apphed  Research  Associates, 
Albuquerque. 

Bob  Avarbock  serves  as  a  senior 
firmware  engineer  at  Digital  in  Hudson, 
Mass. 

Phil  Cameron,  who  is  with  Clairol  in 
Stamford,  Conn.,  took  part  in  the  placement 
seminar  held  at  WPI  last  fall. 

Jih-Tseng  Chang  served  as  a  guide  and 
interpreter  for  Prof.  Donald  Zwiep  in  August 
when  he  was  in  Taipei,  Taiwan  for  the 
ASME. 

Tony  Doornweerd  is  a  highway  engineer 
for  C.E.  Maguirc,  New  Britain,  Conn. 

For  the  next  three  years.  Ken  Fast  will  be 
doing  missionary  work  in  Europe. 

General  Electric  in  Hendersonville, 
N.C.  employs  Michael  Galierani  as  a  spe- 
cialist in  management  enginccnng. 


36  /  Winter  19H2   The  Wl'l  lournal 


Recently,  Jim  Grant  completed  the  Edi- 
son Engineering  Program  at  GE  in  Schenec- 
tady, N.Y.  The  two-year  program  consists  of 
rotating  engineering  assignments  and  tech- 
nical education  through  GE's  Advanced 
*  Course  in  Engineermg.  He  calls  the  program 
"demanding,  but  worth  it."  A  product  design 
engineer,  he  is  also  finishing  up  his  master's 
degree  at  RPI. 

Kevin  Grealish  now  works  for  Martin- 
Marietta  Co.,  Denver,  Colorado. 

1/Lt.  Robert  Gregorio  serves  as  a  platoon 
leader  for  the  U.S.  Army  at  Ft.  Irwin,  Cahf. 
"In  the  middle  of  the  Mojave  Desert." 

Richard  Keirstead  is  currently  pursuing 
his  master's  degree  at  WPI. 

Stephen  Lefemine  is  a  field  sales  en- 
gineer at  Warren  Pumps,  Inc.,  Atlanta,  Geor- 
gia. He  and  Francyne  reside  in  Dunwoody. 

David  Lodigiani  is  a  technical  service 
engineer  at  Loctite  Corporation  in  Aurora, 
111. 

Eugene  Ogborn  has  been  promoted  to 
senior  project  manager  in  the  systems  devel- 
opment organization  of  State  Mutual  Life 
Assurance  Company  of  America.  He  joined 
State  Mutual  as  a  systems  analyst  in  1972 
and  was  promoted  to  senior  systems  analyst 
in  1975  and  to  project  manager  in  1978.  He 
has  a  master's  degree  in  management  from 
WPI. 

Paul  Peterson  is  a  senior  underwriter  at 
State  Mutual,  Worcester. 

Bill  Razeto  is  employed  as  a  stress  en- 
gineer on  the  757  program  at  the  Boeing  Co. 
in  Seattle,  Washington. 

Robert  Schifiliti,  a  systems  consultant 
for  Mass  Fire  Alarms,  Lowell,  Mass.,  is  pres- 
ently enrolled  in  the  WPI  master's  degree 
program  in  fire  protection  engineering. 

Joseph  Silva  works  for  GE  in  Wil- 
mington, Mass. 

Jack  Tracy,  Jr.  works  as  an  operations 
analyst  at  Exxon  in  Norwalk,  Conn. 

Felix  Vargas  continues  as  a  test  equip- 
ment design  engineer  at  Prime  Computer, 
Inc.,  Framingham,  Mass.  He  has  an  MSEE 
from  WPI. 

Neil  Volkmar  is  an  appUcations  en- 
gineer for  GE  Information  Service,  Oakland, 
Cahf. 


1980 


> Married:  Keith  J.  Backman  and  Shaileen 
Zukowski  on  August  22,  1981  in  Milford, 
Connecticut.  Mrs.  Backman  holds  a  scholar- 
ship for  graduate  study  at  Catholic  Univer- 
sity for  her  master's  in  social  work.  She 
graduated  from  Assumption  College.  Her 
husband  is  a  civilian  engineer  for  the  U.S.  Air 
Force  in  the  Washington,  D.C.  area. .  .  .  Brian 
F.  Biemacki  and  Lucille  D.  Lovely  in  Worces- 
ter. The  bride,  formerly  a  recorder  in  the 
registrar's  office  at  WPI,  graduated  from 
Quinsigamond  Community  College.  The 
bridegroom  is  a  field  engineer  at  Dresser 
Atlas  Wireless  Services  in  Seminole,  Ok- 
lahoma. .  .  .  Charles  H.  Crowley  to  Linda  M. 
Martin  in  Hudson,  Massachusetts  on  August 
1, 1981.  Mrs.  Crowley  graduated  from  Becker 
and  is  an  administrative  assistant  at  Business 
Journals,  Inc.,  Norwalk,  Conn.  The  bride- 
groom serves  as  a  chemical  engineer  at  Poly- 
cast  Technology  Corp.,  Stamford,  Conn. 


^■Married:  Michael  J.  Herberg  and 

Cheryl  A.  Pettis  in  Aubum,  Massachusetts 
on  August  15,  1981.  Mrs.  Herberg  attended 
Fitchburg  State  College  and  is  now  a  student 
at  Russell  Sage  College,  Troy,  N.Y.  Her  hus- 
band is  a  chemical  engineer  for  GE  in 
Schenectady  and  a  student  at  RPI. .  .  . 
Stephen  A.  Kossakoski  to  Eileen  M.  Cole  in 
Glastonbury,  Connecticut  on  August  1, 
198 1 .  The  bride  graduated  from  Keene  (N.H. ) 
State  College.  The  groom  graduated  from 
Keene  State  College  last  year.  They  are  both 
teachers  in  Kingston. .  .  .  Robert  J.  Martinek 
to  Laurie  E.  Benjamin  on  October  10,  198 1  in 
Torrington,  Connecticut.  The  bride  attended 
Mattatuck  Community  College  and  Western 
Connecticut  State  College.  Her  husband 
serves  as  a  design  engineer  at  the  Raytheon 
Company  in  Sudbury,  Mass. 

^Married:  Rosemary  A.  Murphy  and 
Timothy  C.  O'Brien  in  Housatonic,  Mas- 
sachusetts on  September  19,  1 98 1.  The  bride 
is  a  process  development  engineer  for  Arthur 
D.  Little,  Inc.,  Cambridge,  Mass.  The  bride- 
groom holds  the  post  of  project  engineer  at 
Stone  &.  Webster  Engineering,  Boston.  He 
graduated  from  RPI.  .  .  .  Elaine  C.  O'Neill  to 
Michael  S.  Yamall  in  Needham,  Mas- 
sachusetts on  August  22,  1981.  The  bride- 
groom graduated  from  RPI  as  a  chemical 
engineer.  Both  the  bride  and  groom  work  for 
Clairol  in  Stamford,  Conn.,  and  attend 
graduate  school:  she  at  the  University  of 
Connecticut  and  he  at  New  York  University. 
.  .  .  Aivars  Reks  to  Christine  O'Malia  in 
Norton,  Massachusetts  on  August  15,  1981. 
Mrs.  Reks  attended  Dean  Junior  College.  Her 
husband  is  employed  by  Hughes  Aircraft  in 
California. 

Douglas  Beller  works  as  an  associate 
engineer  at  Yankee  Atomic  Electric  Co., 
Framingham,  Mass. 

John  Caola  of  the  WPI  mechanical  en- 
gineering department  attended  the  Virginia 
Polytechnic  Institute  and  Virginia  State 
University  Conference  program  co- 
sponsored  by  NASA  Lewis  Laboratories  in 
September. 

Garry  Crane  is  with  General  Electric  in 
Utica,  N.Y. 

Grace  Crooker  currently  works  for  the 
EPA  in  Denver,  Colorado  and  is  concerned 
with  hazardous  waste.  Before  her  transfer, 
she  was  with  the  EPA  in  Lexington,  Mass. 

John  Cybulski  continues  as  a  supervisor 
in  the  manufacturing  and  management  pro- 
gram with  GE  in  Holland,  Michigan. 

J.A.  DeMauro  holds  the  post  of  division 
manager  at  AT&.T  in  Lisle,  Illinois. 

Paul  Doherty  is  a  graduate  student  at  the 
University  of  Michigan  in  Ann  Arbor. 

In  August,  Bill  Durkin  broke  his  ankle 
while  climbing  Mt.  Washington  in  New 
Hampshire.  He  was  climbing  the  6,288-foot 
mountain  with  David  Beech.  Durkin  man- 
aged to  complete  the  trip  by  tightening  the 
straps  on  his  boots  even  though  the  fall 
occurred  more  than  a  mile  from  the  end  of 
the  hike. 

Perry  Esposito  now  holds  the  post  of 
operational  service  engineer  at  Matsco  Fermi 
II,  Monroe,  Mich. 

Edward  Johnson  continues  as  a  sales 
engineer  at  Torrington  Co.,  South  Bend,  In- 
diana. 

Chandrashekhar  Joshi  recently  received 
his  MSME  from  MIT.  He  is  with  Thermo 
Electron  Corp.,  Waltham,  Mass. 


John  Kennedy  is  a  technical  staff 
member  at  Charles  Stark  Draper  Lab.,  Cam- 
bridge, Mass. 

David  Konieczny  works  for  Bechtel 
Power  Corp.,  Berwick,  Pa. 

Peter  LaBelle  serves  as  an  electrical 
software  design  engineer  at  Texas  Instru- 
ments in  Dallas,  Texas. 

James  Lafferty  is  employed  as  a  product 
engineer  at  Foster  Pump  Works,  Westerly, 
R.I. 

Don  Maki  works  as  a  resins  production 
supervisor  at  Borden  Chemicals,  Inc.,  Fay- 
etteville,  N.C. 

John  Moriarty  recently  accepted  a  trans- 
fer from  the  Victoria  plant  to  the  Deer  Park, 
Texas  plant  at  du  Pont. 

John  Neilon  is  a  planning  technician  for 
Dade  County  Planning  Department  in 
Miami,  Fla. 

Eric  Northrop  is  a  member  of  the  techni- 
cal staff  at  Bell  Labs,  Naperville,  111.  In 
December  he  was  slated  to  receive  his  MSEE 
from  Purdue. 

Capt.  Thomas  Nowak  serves  as  a  project 
engineer  for  the  Army  Corps  of  Engineers, 
Dayton,  Ohio. 

Richard  Stephens  is  a  sales  engineer  in- 
volved with  mobile  fluid  product  sales  at 
Dana  Corp.,  Paramus,  N.J. 

Louis  Travaglione  works  as  an  associate 
engineer  at  Lockheed  Missiles  &  Space  Co., 
Sunnyvale,  Calif. 

Chuong  Le  Vu  serves  as  a  member  of  the 
advanced  engineering  program  at  Honeywell 
Information  Systems,  Billerica,  Mass.  He  is 
slated  to  receive  his  MS  in  computer  sci- 
ence from  BU  in  1982. 

Francis  Walsh,  Jr.  is  a  plant  engineer  lor 
W.R.  Grace  &.  Co.,  Chicago. 

Mary  Westberg  serves  as  an  industrial 
engineer  at  Rochester  Products,  Division  of 
GM,  Rochester,  N.Y. 


1981 


^■Married:  Jeffrey  C.  S.  Alexander  and  Pa- 
tricia M.  Pinette  in  East  Falmouth,  Mas- 
sachusetts on  August  29,  1981.  The  bride 
attended  Bridgewater  State  College.  Her 
husband  is  an  industrial  engineer  with 
Hughes  Aircraft  in  Fullerton,  Califomia. .  .  . 
Robert  R.  Breault  to  Doreen  A.  Rossi  in 
Pawtucket,  Rhode  Island  on  September  19, 
1981.  Mrs.  Breault  graduated  from  Bryant 
College  and  is  employed  in  the  CPA  office  of 
Keenan,  Tripp,  and  Company,  Ltd.,  Provi- 
dence. The  groom  serves  as  a  junior  indus- 
trial engineer  at  Chesebrough-Ponds,  Inc., 
Clinton,  Conn. .  .  .  Mark  J.  Burzynski  and 
Cynthia  J.  Lunt  on  September  26,  1981  in 
Southbridge,  Massachusetts.  The  bride 
graduated  from  Eastern  Connecticut  State 
College  and  Worcester  State  College.  She  is  a 
special  education  teacher  at  Laurel  Hill 
School,  Norfolk,  Conn.  Her  husband  works 
for  Torrington  (Conn.)  Co. .  .  .  Robert  C. 
Fuller  and  Mary  E.  Whitelaw  on  August  15, 
1981  in  Centerville,  Rhode  Island.  Mrs.  Ful- 
ler attends  Holy  Cross.  Her  husband  is  with 
G.M.  Industries  in  Seekonk. 


The  WPI  loarnal  I  Winter  1 982  1 37 


^Maihed:  Richard  E.  Grimley  to  Donna 
M.  Sansoucie  in  Northbridge,  Massachusetts 
on  August  22,  1981.  The  bride,  a  registered 
nurse,  attended  Worcester  State  College  and 
graduated  from  City  Hospital  School  of 
Nursing.  The  groom  is  a  production  engineer 
at  IBM  Corp.,  Manassas,  Va. .  .  .  Trevor  Jones 
and  Lori  Vertucci  in  Trumbull,  Connecticut 
on  September  26,  1981..  .  .  James  D.Lafferty 
II  and  Elizabeth  A.  Rososky  in  Westboro, 
Massachusetts  on  July  11,  1981.  The  bride  is 
a  student  at  Southeastern  Massachusetts 
University,  North  Danmouth.  The  groom 
serves  as  a  mechanical  engineer  at  General 
Dynamics,  Electric  Boat,  Groton,  Conn.  .  .  . 
Jeffrey  F.  Regan  and  Mary  Beth  Koran  in 
Monson,  Massachusetts  on  August  1,  1981. 
The  bride,  a  registered  nurse,  is  employed  in 
the  coronary  thoracic  intensive  care  unit  at 
UMass  Medical  Center. 

>Mained:  Alan  M.  Rodrigues  and 
Donna  E.  Jobson  on  September  12,  1981  in 
Wilbraham,  Massachusetts.  The  bride,  who 
graduated  from  Holyoke  Community  Col- 
lege, has  been  an  assistant  manager  for  The 
Gap  Stores,  Inc.,  Enfield.  The  bridegroom 
works  as  a  mechanical  engineer  in  El 
Segundo,  Calif. .  .  .  Joseph  M.  Sobol  and 
Barbara  A.  Anderson,  '80  on  October  17, 
1981  in  Rochdale,  Massachusetts.  The  bride 
is  a  civil  engineer  with  Elson  P.  Killam 
Associates,  Inc.,  Millbum,  N.J.  Her  husband 
works  as  a  geotechnical  engineer  with 
Mueser,  Rutledge,  Johnston  &.  DeSimone 
Consulting  Engineers,  New  York  City.  .  .  . 
James  Waclawski  to  Joan  E.  Shoaf  in 
Wethersfield,  Connecticut  on  August  21, 
1981.  Mrs.  Waclawski  graduated  from  Clark 
University.  The  groom  is  an  associate  en- 
gineer with  Westinghouse  in  Baltimore, 
Maryland. 

Currently,  Nancy  Berube  is  a  first-year 
medical  student  at  the  University  of  Mas- 
sachusetts Medical  School  in  Worcester.  She 
is  married  to  John  F.  Stevens  of  Ontario,  New 
York. 

Valerie  Boynton  works  in  the  informa- 
tion systems  department  at  Pratt  &  Whitney 
Aircraft,  East  Hartford,  Conn. 

James  Bozeman  serves  as  a  teaching 
assistant  at  the  University  of  California  in 
Santa  Barbara. 

Gary  Brown  has  accepted  a  post  as  pro- 
duction engineer  at  Allied  Corp.  in 
Hopewell,  Va. 

Mark  Caldwell  serves  as  an  ensign  in  the 
U.S.  Navy.  He  is  based  at  the  Naval  Aviation 
Schools  Command,  Pensacola,  Fla. 

Joe  Colangelo  has  been  employed  as  an 
electncal  design  engineer  at  Texas  Instru- 
ments in  Dallas,  Texas. 

Steve  Dellaporta,  who  recently  received 
his  PhD  from  WPI,  has  accepted  a  research 
post  at  Cold  Spring  Harbor  Research 
Laboratones  on  Long  Island  in  New  York. 

Joseph  Desjardins  has  joined  Motorola 
in  Ft  Lauderdale,  Fla. 

For  the  next  two  years,  David  Dom- 
browski  plans  to  study  for  his  MSME  at  MIT, 
where  he  serves  as  a  graduate  research 
assistant. 

Continuing  with  Bechtel  Power  Corp., 
Beverly  Elloian  is  currently  working  on  the 
Three  Mile  Island  protect. 

Joseph  Gionfrtddo  serves  as  a  team  man- 
ager for  Procter  &.  Gamble  in  Mehoopany,  Pa 

Mary  Goodrow  is  now  with  GE  in  leffer- 
son,  Ohio. 


Casey  Gordon  continues  as  a  develop- 
ment chemist  at  Hercules,  Inc.,  Wilmington, 
Delaware. 

Timothy  Gottlieb  works  as  a  field  en- 
gineer at  Schlumberger  Well  Service,  Laredo, 
Texas. 

Marshall  Houskeeper  has  been  em- 
ployed by  Dresser  Atlas  as  an  operations 
engineer  in  Houston,  Texas. 

David  Ireland,  a  member  of  the  techni- 
cal staff  at  Bell  Laboratories,  North  Andover, 
Mass.,  is  currently  a  student  at  Stanford 
University. 

Amanullah  Khan  is  a  teaching  assistant 
at  WPI  in  the  ME  department. 

Lisa  Kosciuczyk  is  a  civil  engineering 
assistant  for  the  Los  Angeles  County  Flood 
Control  District  in  California. 

Bruce  MacLeod  serves  as  an  assistant 
civil  engineer  for  the  County  of  Los  Angeles, 
Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

Ralph  Malboeuf  works  at  General  In- 
strument of  Fiicksville,  N.Y. 

Steven  McDonald  holds  the  post  of  as- 
sociate test  engineer  at  Data  General  Corp., 
Westboro,  Mass. 

Anthony  Napikoski  has  accepted  a  post 
as  a  distribution  protection  engineer  at 
United  Illuminating  in  New  Haven,  Corm. 

Brita  Nelson  has  been  appointed  to  a 
process  engineering  position  with  Interna- 
tional Paper  Company's  Hudson  River  mill, 
Corinth,  N.Y. 

Ali  Reza  Paravar  is  studying  for  his  PhD 
in  the  chemical  engineering  department  at 
Cleveland  State  University,  Cleveland, 
Ohio. 

Thomas  Perry  is  employed  as  a  mechan- 
ical engineer  at  Norfolk  Naval  Shipyard  in 
Portsmouth,  Va. 

Gary  Poole  works  as  a  research  engineer 
at  Eastman  Kodak  in  Rochester,  N.Y. 

Lisa  Reis  has  joined  Eastman  Kodak  as  a 
manufacturing  engineer  in  Rochester,  N.Y. 

Richard  Rempe  is  employed  by  Exxon 
Corp.,  Houston,  Texas. 

James  Ricci  has  been  employed  as  a 
plant  manager  by  Eastman  Kodak. 

Roland  Roberge  has  accepted  a  field  en- 
gineering position  with  GE's  Installation  and 
Service  Engineering  Division  (I&.SE)  in 
Schenectady,  N.Y.  He  will  receive  technical 
training  at  I&.SE's  Field  Engineering  Devel- 
opment Center  and  on-the-job  assignments 
with  I&.SE  and  GE  products  departments  as  a 
member  of  the  company's  field  engineering 
program. 

Scot  Robertson  has  been  named  as  a 
design  engineer  at  Texas  Instruments  in 
Houston. 

Richard  Rodgers  continues  as  a  teaching 
assistant  in  the  mechanical  engineering  de- 
partment at  WPI. 

Frederick  Rook  is  studying  for  his  MS  in 
electrical  engineering  at  the  University  of 
Virginia  in  Charlottesville. 

Frank  Silveira  has  joined  Polaroid  Corp., 
Cambridge,  Mass. 

Bradford  Steinka  works  as  an  associate 
engineer  at  Codex  Corporation  in  Mansfield, 
Mass. 

Grant  Swan  serves  as  a  cost  engineer  at 
IBM  in  San  lose,  Calif. 

Anne-Marie  Sylvia  is  employed  as  a 
manufacturing  engineer  at  IBM  in  Charlotte, 
N.C. 

Michael  Teague  works  as  a  process 
supervisor  at  Pfizer,  Inc.,  Groton,  Conn. 


James  Thurber  has  been  named  an  as- 
sociate engineer  at  Baltimore  Gas  &  Electric, 
Baltimore,  Md. 

William  Ure  is  a  second  lieutenant  in 
the  U.S.  Air  Force  out  of  Dayton,  Ohio. 

Richard  Urella  works  as  a  purchasing 
manager  at  U.S.  Gasket  &.  Shim  Corp., 
Danielson,  Conn. 

For  the  past  three  years,  William  Waller 
has  been  employed  as  a  science  writer  at  the 
Harvard-Smithsonian  Center  for  Astro- 
physics in  Cambridge  and  at  Northeastern 
University  in  Boston.  Prior  to  that  he  re- 
ceived his  BS  from  the  University  of  Arizona. 
He  recently  received  his  MS  in  physics  from 
WPI,  and  is  now  pursuing  a  doctoral  program 
in  astronomy  at  the  University  of  Mas- 
sachusetts, Amherst. 

Thomas  Wamick  serves  as  an  associate 
manufacturing  engineer  at  Honeywell  Elec- 
tro Optics  in  Lexington,  Mass. 

Dave  White  has  been  named  an  electri- 
cal designynuclear  engineer  I  at  Combustion 
Engineering,  Inc.,  Windsor,  Conn. 


School  of 
Industrial 

Management 

Paul  Mitchell,  '57  holds  the  post  of  product 
manager  at  Dresser  Industries,  Monrovia, 
Calif. 

Theodore  Strojny,  '61,  has  been  named 
executive  vice  president  and  general  man- 
ager of  Anderson  Operations  (Bay  State  Abra- 
sives) in  Worcester.  He  has  been  manufactur- 
ing manager  at  Anderson  since  last  year.  In 
19,S0,  he  joined  Bay  State  Abrasives.  During 
his  career,  he  has  served  as  plant  manager 
and  managing  director  of  the  company's 
manufacturing  plant  in  Steinsel,  Luxem- 
bourg. The  Anderson  Operation  makes  wire 
brushes,  hole  saws,  and  non-woven  abrasive 
wheels. 


Master  of  Natural 
Science  Program 

William  Morse,  '68  has  been  appointed  as  a 
physics  teacher  in  the  Science  [department  at 
Pinkerton  Academy,  Salem,  N.H.  He  holds  a 
PhD  in  natural  science  from  Brownell  Uni- 
versity and  has  14  years'  teaching  experi- 
ence, the  last  three  of  which  have  been  at 
Nute  High  School.  He  also  has  a  B.Ed,  from 
Keene  State. 

Ralph  Wordcn,  '74  was  recently  pro- 
moted to  safety  director  for  Kingsbury  Ma- 
chine Tool  Corp.  of  Keene,  Nil.  He  will 
continue  as  environmental  protection  coor- 
dinator, a  job  he  has  held  since  )oiningthe 
company  last  year. 


.3«    Winter  l'^H2    The  WPI  lotimal 


Frank  Sannella,  long-time  cross  country  and 
track  coach  at  WPI,  died  on  August  26,  198 1 
in  Webster,  Massachusetts  at  the  age  of  82. 

For  29  years,  he  served  as  cross  country 
coach  at  WPI.  From  1945  to  1954  he  was 
track  coach.  In  recognition  of  his  many  years 
of  service,  the  alumni  road  race  held  during 
Homecoming  in  October,  was  renamed  the 
"Frank  Sannella  Alumni  Fun  Run." 

Mr.  Sannella  was  bom  in  Italy  and  lived 
in  Oxford,  Mass.  for  51  years.  He  attended 
Bates  College  in  Maine  where  he  was  a 
member  of  the  track  team.  In  1926  he  was 
named  a  teacher-coach  at  Oxford  Senior- 
Junior  High  School.  He  coached  all  sports, 
including  varsity  and  junior  varsity  and 
junior  high  basketball  and  baseball. 

He  helped  organize  a  small  school  debat- 
ing league.  Also,  he  coached  drama,  debating, 
and  public  speaking,  continuing  after  he  be- 
came principal  of  Oxford's  senior-junior  high 
school  in  1930. 

Mr.  Sannella  did  graduate  work  at  sev- 
eral colleges  and  received  a  diploma  for  foot- 
ball and  basketball  coaching  at  Washington 
and  Lee  University.  In  1937  he  received  his 
master's  degree  in  school  administration 
from  Boston  University  and  was  certified  by 
the  State  Department  of  Education.  He  did 
further  graduate  work  at  Calvin  Coolidge 
College  in  Boston. 

In  1954,  he  became  superintendent  of 
the  Oxford  schools,  after  serving  as  high 
school  principal  for  24  years.  In  1965  he 
retired  as  superintendent. 

He  was  on  a  research  committee  that  led 
to  the  construction  of  the  Southern  Worces- 
ter County  Regional  Vocational  School  in 
Charlton.  Civic-minded,  he  was  active  with 
the  Lions  Club,  the  Red  Cross,  District  Nurs- 
ing Association,  Learned  Entertainment 
Committee,  and  the  Oxford  Chapter  for  the 
Prevention  of  Cruelty  to  Children.  He 
pioneered  the  Oxford  playground  and  recrea- 
tion program. 

For  several  years  he  was  educational 
advisor  to  Hahnemann  Hospital  School  of 
Nursing.  He  was  a  past  president  of  the 
Worcester  County  Teachers'  Federation  and 
of  the  Worcester  County  Principals'  Associa- 
tion, as  well  as  a  former  area  chairman  of  the 
Committee  on  Athletics  for  the  Mas- 
sachusetts Principals'  Association. 

Mr.  Sannella  was  a  founder  and  first 
chairman  of  what  is  now  the  Clark  Univer- 
sity Basketball  Tournament,  and  he  orga- 
nized the  first  league  for  track  and  cross 
country  for  small  schools  in  the  Worcester 
area. 


Harold  M.  Somerville,  a  former  research 
technician  at  WPL  died  on  September  8,  1981 
in  Worcester.  He  was  74. 

From  1938  to  1965  he  owned  and  oper- 
ated the  Lake  Ripple  Garage  in  North  Graf- 
ton. Until  his  retirement  in  1975,  he  was  a 
research  technician  in  mechanical  engineer- 
ing in  the  intemal  combustion  laboratory  at 
WPI. 

A  well  known  chinchilla  breeder,  in 

1969  he  won  the  Breeder's  Award  Plaque  for 
18  prize  winners  out  of  20  entered  at  the 
Standard  Live  Animal  Show  in  Boston.  In  a 

1970  newspaper  article,  he  was  described  as 
one  of  the  biggest  New  England  breeders  of 
the  top-flight  fur.  Empress  chinchilla. 

Mr.  Somerville  was  a  member  of  the 
Episcopal  Church,  the  Masons,  and  the 
Mendelssohn  Singers.  He  was  a  native  of 
Windsor,  Vt.  A  resident  of  North  Grafton  for 
43  years,  for  the  last  two  years  he  lived  in 
West  Bradenton,  Fla. 

Paul  E.  Twiss,  '10  died  in  the  Americana 
Health  Care  Center,  Winter  Park,  Florida  on 
October  21,  1981. 

Before  retiring  in  1948,  he  was  a  devel- 
opment and  design  engineer  for  General 
Electric  Co.,  West  Lynn,  Mass.  for  38  years. 
He  was  a  50-year  member  of  the  Masons  and 
belonged  to  the  AIEE  and  the  Odd  Fellows. 

In  1910  he  graduated  with  his  BSME 
from  WPI.  He  was  bom  in  Jaffrey,  N.H.  on 
April  7,  1888. 

Frank  M.  McGowan, '  12,  a  retired  owner  and 
treasurer  of  William  M.  Bailey  Company, 
died  in  a  nursing  home  in  Brain  tree,  Mas- 
sachusetts on  September  12,  1 98 1 .  He  was  9 1 
years  old. 

He  was  a  trustee  emeritus  of  New  En- 
gland Deaconess  Hospital  in  Boston,  and  a 
recipient  of  the  BSA  Silver  Beaver  Award.  A 
trustee  of  the  King  Family  Trust  of  Quincy, 
he  also  belonged  to  the  ASCE  and  Theta  Chi 
and  was  a  50-year  member  of  All  Souls  Men's 
Club  in  Braintree.  He  was  a  32nd  degree 
Mason. 

Mr.  McGowan  was  bom  on  March  5, 
1 890  in  Swansea,  Mass.  He  received  his 
BSCE  from  WPI  in  1912  and  was  a  profes- 
sional engineer  in  Massachusetts.  He  was  a 
World  War  I  Army  veteran. 

J.  Arthur  Planteroth,  '13  of  Hightstown,  New 
Jersey  passed  away  recently. 

He  was  bom  on  June  1 1,  1886  in  New 
York  City.  In  19 13  he  graduated  as  an  electri- 
cal engineer  from  WPI,  after  having  received 
his  BA  from  the  College  of  the  City  of  New 
York  in  1906.  He  also  was  a  student  at  the 
University  of  Chicago,  Adelphi  College  of 
Brooklyn,  and  Columbia  University. 

During  his  career,  Mr.  Planteroth  was 
with  New  York  &  Queens  Electric  Light  & 
Power  Co.  and  Consolidated  Edison  Co., 
New  York  City.  For  several  years  he  taught 
in  the  New  York  public  school  system. 


Charles  S.  Howard,  '18  of  Los  Altos,  Califor- 
nia died  on  October  28,1981. 

A  native  of  Townsend,  Mass.,  he  was 
bomonJuly21,  1896. In  19 18  he  graduated  as 
a  chemist  from  WPI.  In  1957  he  retired  from 
the  U.S.  Geological  Survey  after  37  years.  He 
had  served  as  district  chemist  for  the  Survey. 

Dr.  Howard,  who  received  his  MS  and 
PhD  in  chemistry  from  American  Univer- 
sity, Washington,  D.C.,  was  known  as  an 
authority  on  the  chemical  quality  of  water  of 
the  Colorado  River  and  on  the  sediment  load 
of  the  Colorado  and  other  southwestern 
streams. 

He  was  the  co-author  of  a  series  of  papers 
dealing  with  density-current  flows  in  Lake 
Mead  and  he  prepared  many  other  papers  for 
publication  by  technical  journals  and  the 
Geological  Survey.  During  his  lifetime  he 
was  in  charge  of  the  water  resources  labora- 
tory in  Albuquerque,  N.M.  He  belonged  to 
Phi  Sigma  Kappa,  the  American  Chemical 
Society,  the  ASCE,  American  Water  Works 
Association,  and  the  American  Association 
for  the  Advancement  of  Science.  He  was  a 
veteran  of  World  War  I. 

Lewis  F.  Lionvale,  '18  died  in  the  Veteran's 
Hospital  in  Reno,  Nevada  on  July  21,  1981, 
following  a  long  illness. 

He  was  bom  on  Feb.  8,  1897  in  Hartford, 
Conn.  In  1918  he  graduated  from  WPI  as  a 
mechanical  engineer,  then  joined  the  U.S. 
Navy  and  served  as  a  lieutenant-chief  en- 
gineer on  a  minesweeper.  Later,  he  was  em- 
ployed by  U.S.  Rubber  Co.,  S.I.  Ward  &  Co., 
Shell  Co.  of  California,  General  Petroleum 
Corp.,  and  Associated  Oil  Corp. 

From  1933  to  1963  he  was  an  adminis- 
trative assistant  and  fire  prevention  engineer 
in  the  office  of  the  California  State  Fire 
Marshal.  He  belonged  to  the  National  Fire 
Protection  Association,  the  Society  of  Fire 
Protection  Engineers,  and  Tau  Beta  Pi. 

He  was  a  past  president  of  the  Golden 
Gate  Angling  Club  (San  Francisco)  and  of  the 
State  Men's  Club  in  Sacramento.  He  enjoyed 
fishing  in  the  Northwest  and  foreign  travel. 

Herbert  E.  Brooks,  '20,  former  chairman  of 
the  board  and  owner  of  the  Conant  Ball 
Company,  Gardner,  Massachusetts,  died  in 
Henry  Heywood  Memorial  Hospital  on  Oc- 
tober 23,  1981.  He  was  83. 

Mr.  Brooks  was  associated  with  the  fur- 
niture manufacturing  firm  for  61  years,  hav- 
ing joined  the  company  in  1920  as  assistant 
superintendent.  From  1933  to  1936  he  was 
assistant  treasurer.  In  1936,  along  with  other 
family  members,  he  purchased  control  of  the 
business.  He  served  as  president  from  1936  to 
1949,  and  became  company  treasurer  when 
his  father  retired  in  1949.  He  was  chairman 
of  the  board  from  1974  until  his  retirement  in 
1979. 

A  Gardner  native,  he  was  bom  on  May 
12,  1898.  He  graduated  as  a  mechanical  en- 
gineer from  WPI  in  1 920  and  belonged  to  SAE 
and  Skull.  He  was  an  Army  veteran  of  World 
War  I. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  New  England 
Association  of  Fumiture  Manufacturers, 
which  he  had  served  as  director.  A  leader  in 
his  field,  he  was  called  to  testify  before  the 
World  War  II  Price  Control  Board  in 
Washington,  D.C. 


The  WPI  lourng]  I  Winter  1982139 


Mr.  Brooks  was  a  former  vice  president 
of  the  Worcester  Chapter  of  the  WPI  Alumni 
Association,  as  well  as  a  representative  to  the 
Alumni  Council.  Active  in  the  community, 
he  was  affiliated  with  the  Boy  Scouts  and 
had  belonged  to  the  Monomonoc  Sporting 
Club,  the  Rotary  Club,  and  the  Congrega- 
tional Church.  He  was  a  director  of  the  First 
National  Bank  of  Gardner  and  a  past  presi- 
dent of  the  Gardner  Home  for  Elderly  People, 
and  of  the  local  United  Fund.  He  was  a 
50-year  Mason  and  the  father  of  Stephen 
Brooks,  '46. 

E.  Daniel  Johnson,  '21  died  in  a  Nashua,  New 
Hampshire  hospital  on  October  6,  1981  fol- 
lowing a  brief  illness.  He  was  82  years  old. 

In  1965  he  retired  after  41  years  as  New 
England  sales  engineering  representative  for 
Buffalo  Forge  Company,  working  out  of  the 
Boston  regional  office.  Prior  to  joining  Buf- 
falo Forge,  he  was  with  AT&T. 

Mr.  Johnson  served  with  the  U.S.  Navy 
during  World  War  I  and  later  in  the  Naval 
Reserve.  He  was  a  Mason,  a  Shriner,  and  a 
director  of  Lions  International,  as  well  as  the 
founder  and  first  chairman  of  the  Mas- 
sachusetts Lions  Eye  Research  Foundation. 

He  was  a  trustee  of  the  Amherst  Library 
and  a  volunteer  clerk  for  the  Wilkins  School 
additions.  A  member  of  the  Congregational 
Church,  he  also  was  active  on  numerous 
Amherst  town  committees.  He  belonged  to 
SPE  and  Tau  Beta  Pi,  was  a  former  president 
of  the  Boston  Chapter  of  the  Alumni  Associ- 
ation, and  a  past  member  of  the  Executive 
Committee,  the  Fund  Board,  and  the  Alumni 
Council. 

A  native  of  Manchester,  N.H.,  Mr. 
Johnson  was  bom  on  Jan.  1,  1899.  In  1921  he 
graduated  from  WPI  as  an  electrical  engineer. 


Roy  G.  Bennett,  '22  of  Melrose,  Mas- 
sachusetts recently  passed  away. 

He  was  bom  on  Sept.  15,  1900inGroton, 
Mass.  In  1922  he  received  his  BSME  from 
WPI.  For  43  years  he  was  with  General  Elec- 
tric, spending  his  last  twenty  years  in  the 
marine  sales  office  in  Boston.  He  retired  in 
1965. 

A  member  of  the  Society  of  Naval  Ar- 
chitects and  Marine  Engineers  and  the  Amer- 
ican Society  of  Naval  Engineers,  Mr.  Bennett 
also  belonged  to  the  Masons,  SPE,  and  Tau 
Beta  Pi.  He  had  been  president  of  the  Specta- 
cle Pond  Association  and  a  deacon  of  the 
Congregational  Church.  He  was  a  former 
president  of  the  Boston  Chapter  of  the 
Alumni  Association,  and  an  Alumni  Council 
representative. 


I.  Norman  Alberti,  '24,  a  WPI  trustee 
emeritus,  died  in  East  Harwich,  Mas- 
sachusetts on  August  20,  1 98 1 .  He  was  80 
years  old. 

Besides  serving  WPI  as  a  trustee,  Mr. 
Albcrti  had  also  been  a  member  of  the  Fund 
Board  and  the  Alumni  Council  He  was  a  past 
chairman  of  the  development  program  for 
the  Connecticut  Valley  area,  and  past  presi- 
dent of  the  Connecticut  Valley  Chapter  of 
the  WPI  Alumni  Association.  He  was  class 
gift  chairman  for  his  50th  reunion. 

In  1966,  following  42  years  with  General 
Electric,  he  retired  as  Springfield  manager  of 
the  firm  He  belonged  to  the  GE  management 
group,  the  Elfun  Society.  He  was  a  former 


president  of  the  Springfteld  YMCA  and  Ro- 
tary Club.  For  many  years  he  served  as  water 
commissioner  in  Longmeadow. 

He  was  an  officer  of  the  Engineering 
Society  of  Western  Massachusetts,  the  AIEE, 
and  Goodwill  Industries.  Other  community 
involvements  were  with  the  Chamber  of 
Commerce,  Junior  Achievement,  and  the 
United  Fimd,  as  well  as  with  the 
Longmeadow  Men's  Club. 

A  50-year  member  of  the  Old  First 
Church,  Mr.  Alberti  was  active  as  a  church 
moderator,  deacon,  and  teacher.  Also,  he  was 
chairman  of  the  financial  board  and  was  on 
the  Board  of  Education  and  World  Services. 
He  belonged  to  the  building  and  music 
committees. 

Mr.  Alberti  was  a  vice  president  of  the 
Springfield  Council  of  Churches  and  served 
on  the  Council's  Board  of  Finance  and  Urban 
Ministry  Committee.  At  one  time  he  was 
vice  president  of  the  former  MacDowell 
Male  Choir. 

He  was  bom  in  Greenfield,  Mass.,  and 
received  his  BSEE  h-om  WPI  in  1924.  He 
belonged  to  Theta  Chi  and  was  a  registered 
professional  engineer. 

Stephen  J.  Vouch,  '24  of  Vero  Beach,  Florida 
died  on  November  1,  1981  after  a  brief  ill- 
ness. He  was  79  years  old. 

From  1924  to  1964,  when  he  retired,  he 
was  with  General  Electric  Company,  Erie, 
Pa.,  where  he  served  as  a  sales  engineer. 

He  graduated  with  his  BSEE  in  1924.  A 
native  of  Peekskill,  N.  Y.,  he  was  bom  on  Jan. 
13,  1902. 

Harold  Hansen,  '25,  a  long-time  employee  of 
Champion  International,  died  in  Canton, 
North  Carolina  on  October  20,  1981. 

He  was  bom  on  April  23,  1902  in  Kro- 
ken,  Sweden  and  came  to  America  at  age  5.  In 
1 925  he  received  his  BSEE  from  WPI.  Follow- 
ing graduation,  he  worked  for  Riley  Stoker  in 
Worcester  for  three  years.  In  1928  he  joined 
the  Champion  Fibre  &  Paper  Co.  (now 
Champion  International)  where  he  was  em- 
ployed until  his  retirement  as  superintend- 
ent of  the  firm's  steam  and  power  plant  in 
Canton. 

Mr.  Hansen  belonged  to  the  Engineering 
Club  of  Western  North  Carolina,  the  Ameri- 
can Pulp  and  Paper  Superintendents'  Associ- 
ation, Tau  Beta  Pi,  and  the  Knights  of 
Pythias,  which  he  served  in  various  offices. 
He  was  a  registered  professional  engineer  in 
North  Carolina  and  Ohio,  and  a  former 
member  of  the  Western  North  Carolina  Air 
Pollution  Control  Board. 

After  retiring  in  1 964,  the  Hansens 
traveled  in  Europe  and  throughout  the  U.S. 
Mr.  Hansen  enjoyed  gardening.  Besides  writ- 
ing and  editing  an  outline  for  a  two-year 
vocational  course  in  practical  electricity,  he 
contributed  brief  articles  to  Power  and 
Power  Plant  Engineering. 


Vahan  B.  Kurkjian,  '26,  a  retired  engineer  for 
NASA,  passed  away  in  New  Haven,  Con- 
necticut on  July  12,  1981  at  the  age  of  8 1 . 

He  was  bom  on  Jan.  1,  1900  in  Arabkir, 
Armenia.  He  graduated  from  WPI  with  a  BS 
in  electrical  engineering.  Before  retiring  in 
1969,  he  worked  for  the  U.S.  Navy  for  25 
years  in  Cleveland,  Ohio,  and  Washington, 
D.C.  His  last  assignment  was  as  contracting 
officer  for  the  Naval  Ordnance  Systems 
Command. 

Earlier  in  his  career,  Mr.  Kurkjian 
worked  for  Dennison  Mfg.  Co.,  American 
Tube  Works,  the  Massachusetts  Department 
of  Public  Safety,  and  the  War  Department. 


Arthur  M.  Cheney,  Jr.,  '28,  a  retired  engineer 
from  Heald  Machine  Co.,  died  on  November 
6,  1981  in  Worcester  at  the  age  of  75. 

A  native  of  Orange,  Mass.,  he  was  bom 
on  Sept.  7,  1906  and  later  received  his  BSME 
from  WPI.  During  his  career  he  was  with 
Rodney  Hunt  Machine  Co.,  SW  Card  Co., 
and  Heald  Machine-Cincinnati  Milacron, 
from  which  he  retired  in  1968  following  27 
years  of  service. 

Mr.  Cheney  belonged  to  SPE  and  the 
Massachusetts  Professional  Engineers  Soci- 
ety. He  was  a  past  master  of  the  Masons  and  a 
former  member  of  the  Westboro  Finance 
Committee  and  of  the  Episcopal  Church 
building  fund  committee.  In  World  War  II  he 
served  in  the  U.S.  Army. 

Donald  C.  McLeod,  '34  died  unexpectedly  on 
October  31,  1 98 1  at  his  home  in  Dartmouth, 
Massachusetts.  He  was  70. 

Bom  in  South  Dartmouth,  Mass.,  he 
later  became  a  member  of  the  Class  of  1934. 
Until  his  retirement,  he  was  a  tool  engineer 
at  Morse  Cutting  Tools.  He  belonged  to  the 
Grange,  the  Masons,  and  the  Society  of  Man- 
ufacturing Engineers. 

For  20  years  he  was  treasurer  and  for  30 
years  the  organist  for  the  Smith  Neck  Friends 
Meeting.  Also,  for  20  years  he  was  clerk  of 
the  Sandwich  quarterly  meeting  of  Friends  of 
New  England  yearly  meetings. 

Richard  W.  Rhodes,  '34  died  in  a  rest  home  in 
Signal  Mountain,  Tennessee  on  September 
15,  1981  at  the  age  of  69. 

He  was  head  chemist  for  Dupont  Bis- 
coloid  Co.,  Chattanooga  before  retiring  in 
1970.  He  belonged  to  the  ACS. 

Mr.  Rhodes,  a  member  of  Sigma  Xi,  was 
bom  on  May  12,  1 9 1 2  in  Worcester  and 
received  his  BS  in  chemistry  in  1934.  In 
World  War  II  he  was  a  second  lieutenant  with 
the  U.S.  Navy  stationed  in  Washington,  D.C. 
Later  he  was  a  lieutenant  commander  in  the 
USNR. 

Philip  W.  Stafford,  '34,  a  retired  U.S.  Navy 
engineer,  died  on  October  26,  1981  at  Cape 
Cod  Hospital,  Hyannis,  Massachusetts  fol- 
lowing a  lengthy  illness.  He  was  68. 

For  nearly  40  years  he  was  a  naval  en- 
gineer for  the  U.S.  Navy  Department  Bureau 
of  Ships.  During  World  War  II,  he  was  with 
the  Navy  in  the  Pacific. 

He  belonged  to  the  Society  of  Naval 
Engineers,  the  Wandcrbirds  Hiking  Club  of 
Washington,  DC,  and  Tau  Beta  Pi.  He  was 
bom  on  Jan.  5,  1913  in  Middleboro,  Mass.  In 
1 934  he  graduated  from  WPI  as  a  mechanical 
engineer. 


40 1  Winter  19H2  /  The  WPI  journal 


Preston  H.  Hadley,  Jr.  '35  died  of  ALS  (Lou 
Gehrig's  Disease)  at  his  home  in  Crofton, 
Maryland  on  August  22,  1 98 1 .  He  was  68  and 
a  native  of  Bellows  Falls,  Vt. 
^  He  joined  Gibbs  &  Cox,  Inc.  (naval  ar- 

chitects and  engineers)  in  1935  after  receiv- 
ing his  BSME  from  WPI.  He  participated  in 
the  design  of  the  "S.S.  America"  as  well  as 
many  U.S.  destroyers,  and  during  World  War 
II  was  involved  in  the  design  and  production 
of  British  cargo  ships,  several  classes  of  U.S. 
Navy  ships,  and  the  U.S.  Coast  Guard  WIND 
Class  icebreakers. 

After  World  War  II,  he  worked  on  the 
design  and  engineering  development  of  the 
"S.S.  United  States"  until  1947  when  he 
joined  Almon  A.  Johnson,  Inc.,  as  a  marine 
engineer,  later  becoming  the  firm's  general 
manager  in  1950.  He  continued  with  the 
latter  firm  until  1959. 

Mr.  Hadley  then  returned  to  Gibbs  & 
Cox  as  a  special  assistant  to  the  president, 
subsequently  being  appointed  vice  president 
in  1 96 1 .  As  vice  president  he  was  responsible 
for  surveying  Canadian  shipyard  capabilities 
to  build  destroyers,  among  other  important 
projects.  Later,  after  having  helped  establish 
the  firm's  Washmgton  area  office,  he  became 
vice  president  for  marketing.  In  1978  he 
retired. 

A  member  of  Phi  Gamma  Delta,  Mr. 
Hadley  also  belonged  to  the  American  Soci- 
ety of  Naval  Engineers,  which  he  served  two 
terms  on  the  National  Council.  He  was  a 
former  chairman  of  the  Society's  New  York 
Metropolitan  Section,  as  well  as  past  presi- 
dent of  the  Westfield  (N.J.)  Glee  Club. 

Thomas  J.  Healey,  '36  passed  away  recently. 
He  was  bom  Nov.  5,  1912  in  Worcester. 
In  1936  he  graduated  as  an  electrical  engineer 
from  WPI.  Formerly,  he  was  with  New  En- 
gland Telephone  &.  Telegraph  Co.  He  be- 
longed to  SAE  and  was  a  veteran  of  World 
War  II. 


Charles  C.  Tanona,  '44,  an  engineering 
executive  at  Union  Carbide  Corp.,  died  on 
October  2,  1981  in  Charleston,  West  Vir- 
ginia. He  was  58. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  was  bom  on 
November  21,  1922.  He  graduated  from  WPI 
as  a  chemical  engineer  and  received  his  MS 
in  1948.  An  associate  director  of  engineering 
in  the  hydrocarbon  division  of  Union  Car- 
bide, South  Charleston,  he  was  employed 
there  for  33  years. 

Mr.  Tanona  joined  Union  Carbide  in 
1948  and  spent  most  of  his  time  with  the 
engineering  department  of  the  Chemicals 
and  Plastics  Division.  Over  the  years  he  held 
a  number  of  posts  including  that  of  group 
leader  in  engineering  and  engineering  man- 
ager for  silicones.  He  belonged  to  ACS, 
AIChE,  and  he  was  a  registered  professional 
engineer  in  California,  Texas,  and  West  Vir- 
ginia. He  was  an  Army  veteran  of  World  War 
II. 


David  E.  Estey,  '53  died  at  the  home  of  his 
sister  in  Natick,  Massachusetts  on  October 
1,  1981. 

He  was  a  district  manager  for  General 
Electric  in  Washington,  D.C.,  where  he  had 
been  employed  since  1962.  Early  in  his  career 
he  was  a  sales  engineer  for  Minneapolis  Hon- 
eywell. 

In  1953  he  graduated  as  a  chemical  en- 
gineer from  WPI.  He  belonged  to  the  Congre- 
gational Church,  and  he  served  in  the  U.S. 
Army  from  1953  to  1955.  He  was  bom  in 
Worcester  on  May  28,  1929. 

Lt.  Col.  Howard  D.  Stephenson,  '60  of  the 

U.S.  Air  Force,  for  many  years  reported 
missing  in  action,  has  recently  been  declared 
dead. 

He  was  bom  on  Oct .  6,  1 93  7  in  Concord, 
Mass.  In  1960  he  graduated  with  a  BSME 
from  WPI.  Following  graduation  he  entered 
the  U.S.  Air  Force  Officer  Training  School. 
During  his  career  he  was  a  navigator  and  an 
electronic  warfare  officer  and  instructor  at 
Castle  AFB  in  California. 

Bruce  R.  Webber,  '65  died  September  12, 
1981  at  Preston  Beach,  Swampscott,  Mas- 
sachusetts in  a  scuba  diving  accident.  He  was 
38  years  old. 

Police  reported  that  Webber  was  diving 
for  lobsters  with  four  other  divers,  when  he 
became  separated  from  the  group.  The  body 
was  later  discovered  washed  up  on  the  beach. 
Following  an  autopsy,  Webber  was  ruled  to 
have  died  of  drowning. 

For  the  past  13  years  he  was  employed  as 
an  electrical  and  computer  engineer  at  the 
Vermont  Yankee  nuclear  power  plant  in 
Vernon,  Vt.  A  resident  of  Greenfield,  Mass. 
he  was  past  president  of  the  local  YMCA 
Men's  Club  and  of  Parents  Without  Partners. 
He  was  a  former  town  meeting  member  and 
Greenfield  Minor  Leagues  assistant  man- 
ager. Also,  he  belonged  to  a  snowmobile 
club,  the  Elks,  and  was  a  manager  for  the 
.Babe  Ruth  Baseball  League. 

In  1978  he  was  the  recipient  of  the 
Rotary  Foundation  Group  Study  Exchange 
trip  to  Norway.  Active  with  the  BSA,  he  was 
a  troup  treasurer. 

Webber  was  bom  on  March  28,  1943  in 
Worcester.  In  1965  he  received  his  BSEE.  He 
belonged  to  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon  and  the  IEEE. 

Ronald  Gusowski,  '77  of  Westboro,  Mas- 
sachusetts died  unexpectedly  in  August  fol- 
lowing a  two-day  illness. 

He  was  bom  on  Feb.  10,  1954  in  New 
York  City.  In  1977  he  graduated  from  WPI  as 
an  electrical  engineer.  He  was  a  design  en- 
gineer at  Data  General,  where  he  had  been 
employed  since  graduation. 

William  W.  Demont,  '78,  a  student  at  the 
University  of  Massachusetts,  Boston  cam- 
pus, died  July  6,  1981  in  Carney  Hospital, 
Dorchester,  Massachusetts  at  the  age  of  24. 
He  was  bom  in  Gardner  and  later  was  a 
student  at  WPI.  He  belonged  to  the  Episcopal 
Church. 


.                  STATEMENT  OF  OWNERSHIP.  MANAGEMENT  AND  CIRCULATION                                j 

THE  WPI  JOUSHAL 

1JJ_"]   j     LJ     I         3  »«v..^r°198l 

Quarterly  *  SeDtombar                                                 1    "'"'"■'■'     5              \     """       5. 00 

West  Street,  Worcester,  WoreeBter,  Masaachuaotto  OI6O9 

West  Street,   Worcester,  Worceat^r,  Mk'ssach'iIJetts'*Ol'609'*'""*    •"™'"" 

Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester,  HaasachuflottB  OI609 

H.    Russell  Kav.  Worceeter  Polrtachnic  Institute,  Worcester,  Haaeacbiuetts  OI6O9 

nnn« 

liof*/.  o»»lflf  « tuMIni  1  pt"«ii «  -Kw  of  •oitl  tmoimi  of  «(«*,  Ifmlow^fl  b,  >  mpowioi.  iMf  n»w<  ixJ  tddHMu,  of  m,  mdlndml 
Ml-int-  If  "11  publlailo-  n  putlMrJ  by  ,  ii«pn>fli  ern^,:„K,x.  In  ««c  «ni  ,Mr,u  muii  bf  tuM.i                                    '           ""'  ** 

Woppentei-  Polvtechnlc   Inafcitute 

Worcester,  Haseachuaatts  U1b09                       | 

*    -NOW-  '°''''^'°;-^\l\'^iy^';^^^^^^^^                                                               °-  "<•"' «'     1 

H.Ma 

.OOI»» 

~~:^~~ 

,.,>.,  .«o  ..,„..  0,  „„»..„„. 

.  „......„.. — „,..„™>.., 

20,1112 

20,502 

■  ■■:VZv>Hv.vv.v;.*u".s "•" 

" 

0 

,    ..,..„..„,...o.. 

0 

0 

.  ,„.....„..,.^,.„„...,,.„^,..„ 

0 

0 

'  ::::5^"7.;;"/j,r,;,v.*.''-.;:".",'.".v.v.'.".'.V".".-" 

I8,7"t8 

18.666 

^Q,1US, 

1B,666 

•  f  °:'.-.%-.°:.".'v.-;;  V.?.,  ...„...,„...,.„ 

1.66it 

l,8l6 

. ." 

0 

0 

.,.,.. ».. .,  .„  w  ^,...„ .._.., ... 

20,1*12 

20,502 

■ 

The  WPI  Journal  I  Winter  1982141 


mMj- 


.-^ 


w 


l^'.W!>^.!il^!^'^^#iT*w.» 


^^Bi 

i 

i 

^B|s*^^Kefl|H 

l#L 


-«« 


'•}■■ 


f  .*.^ , 


WPI  Journal 

WORCESTER  POLYTECHNIC  ^INSTITUTE 


VOLUME  85        NO  4 


APRIL  1982 


Staff  of  The  WPI  Journal 

Editor,  Kenneth  L.  McDonnell 
Alumni  Information  Editor,  Ruth  S.  Trask 

Alumni  Publications  Committee:  Donald  E. 
Ross,  '54,  chair;  Robert  C.  Gosling,  '68;  Sidney 
Madwed,  '49;  Samuel  W.  Mencow,  '37;  Stanley 
P.  Nesus,  Jr.,  '54;  Judy  Nitsch,  '75. 

The  WPI  Journal  (ISSN  0148-6128)  is  pub- 
lished quarterly  for  the  WPI  Alumni  Associ- 
ation by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  in  co- 
operation with  the  Alumni  Magazine 
Consortium,  with  editorial  offices  at  the  Johns 
Hopkins  University,  Baltimore,  MD  21218. 
Pages  I-XVI  are  published  for  the  Alumni 
Magazine  Consortium  (Franklin  and  Marshall 
College,  Johns  Hopkins  University,  Rensse- 
laer Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester  Polytech- 
nic Institute)  and  appear  in  the  respective  alumni 
magazines  of  those  institutions.  Second  class 
postage  paid  at  Worcester,  MA  and  additional 
mailing  offices.  Pages  1-12,  29-40  ©  1982, 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute.  Pages  I-XVI 
©  1982,  Johns  Hopkins  University. 

Sta^  of  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consortium:  Ed- 
itor, Elise  Hancock;  Business  Manager,  Rob- 
ert Hewes;  Production  Coordinator,  Wendy 
Williams;  Associate  Editor,  Mary  Ruth  Yoe; 
Designer,  Allen  Carroll;  Magazine  Fellow, 
Kevin  Bjerregaard;  Contributing  Editor,  Gina 
Maranto;  Editorial  Assistant,  Elaine  Langlois. 

Advisory  Board  for  the  Alumni  Magazine  Con- 
sortium: Franklin  and  Marshall  College:  John 
Synodinos  and  Judy  Durand;  Johns  Hopkins 
University:  Ross  Jones  and  Elise  Hancock; 
Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute:  Lynn  Holley 
and  Robert  M.  Whitaker;  Worcester  Polytech- 
nic Institute-:  Thomas  J.  Denney  and  Kenneth 
L.  McDonnell. 

Acknowledgments:  Typesetting,  Foto  Typeset- 
ters, Inc.;  Printing,  John  D.  Lucas  Printing 
Company;  Mailing,  Circular  Advertising  Com- 
pany. 

Opinions  expressed  in  this  publication  are  those 
of  the  individual  authors  and  not  necessarily 
policies  of  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 
Address  correspondence  to  the  Editor,  The  WPI 
Journal,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute, 
Worcester,  MA  01609.  Telephone  (617)  793- 
5609.  Postmaster:  If  undeliverable  please  send 
form  3579  to  the  address  above.  Do  not  return 
publication. 


CONTENTS 


Cleaning  Up  the  Campus         6 

WPI  uses  chemicals  by  the  hundreds 
for  research   and   education. 
What  happens  to  the  wastes? 
Kenneth  L.  McDonnell 


Hazardous  Wastes         I 

Dangerous  by-products  of  U.S.  industry, 
hazardous  wastes  can't  be  buried  and  forgotten 

James  C.  Wood 


An  Almanack  of 

(Almost)  Mundane  Objects         IX 

Or  why  you  shouldn't  take  chairs,  salt, 

ball  bearings,  toilet  paper,  and  more  for  granted. 


Ways  to  Photograph  the  World 
In  his  lab  at  WPI,  George  Schmidt 
photographs  microstructures  in 
black-and-white.  Outside,  he  turns  to  color. 


Departments 

News  from  the  Hill        3 
Projects        10 
Case  in  Point        12 
Alumni  Notes        30 
Ampersand        Inside  back  cover 


Ui 


On  the  cover:  A  study  of  light  and  texture.  The 
dynamic  portrayal  of  Higgins  House  by  WPI's 
George  Schmidt. 


APRIL  1982         1 


Make  Plans  Now 
to  Attend 

mm 

HOMECOMING 
1982 

September  24-26 


From  Donald  E.  Ross,  '54, 
Publications  Committee  Chair 


It  is  indeed  a  pleasure,  on  behalf  of  the 
Publications  Committee  and  the  entire 
WPI  Alumni  Association,  to  welcome 
Kenneth  L.  McDonnell  to  WPI  as  Direc- 
tor of  Publications.  In  addition  to  pro- 
ducing myriads  of  catalogs,  brochures  and 
other  WPI  publications.  Ken  has  the 
enormously  important  responsibility  of 
serving  as  Editor  of  the  Journal. 

Ken  comes  to  WPI  from  the  Wharton 


School's  Applied  Research  Center,  the 
University  of  Pennsylvania,  where  he  was 
Senior  Editor.  A  graduate  of  the  Penn- 
sylvania State  University  with  additional 
training  in  journalism  and  graphic  design, 
he  brings  much  very  appropriate  experi- 
ence to  his  new  position  at  WPI. 

Please  join  me  in  welcoming  Ken 
McDonnell  aboard  and  wishing  him  suc- 
cess as  a  member  of  the  WPI  community. 


A  Note  from  the  New  Editor 


Let  me  first  thank  you  for  your  continuing 
interest  in  the  WPI  Journal.  In  taking  over 
as  editor.  I  am  impressed  with  the  fine 
tradition  established  by  my  predecessors 
and  the  opportunities  presented  to  me. 
Credit  for  much  of  the  Journal's  quality 
must  go  to  Russell  Kay,  who,  for  11  years 
was  instrumental  in  bringing  to  the  Jour- 
nal sustained  improvements  in  both  con- 
tent and  style. 

Inevitably,  a  change  at  the  helm  of  any 
magazine  carries  with  it  a  change  in  the 
look  and,  to  a  greater  or  lesser  degree,  in 
the  focus  of  the  publication.  Throughout 
the  change  process,  however,  continuity 
in  the  direction  of  the  Journal  is  a  com- 
mitment I  intend  to  maintain. 

As  a  change  agent,  I  am  dedicated  to 
upholding  WPI's  tradition  of  excellence 
as  well  as  to  breaking  new  ground.  With 
this  issue,  we  join  with  three  other  col- 
leges in  a  collaborative  venture  to  pro- 
duce our  respective  alumni  magazines.  This 
Alumni  Magazine  Consortium  embraces 
Johns  Hopkins  University,  Baltimore, 
where  the  magazines  will  be  produced; 
Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute,  Troy, 
New  York;  Franklin  and  Marshall  Col- 
lege, Lancaster,  Pennsylvania;  and  now, 
WPI.  Economy  of  scale  is  one  advantage 
of  the  consortium  arrangement.  In  addi- 
tion the  member  schools  are  working  co- 
operatively to  produce  material  for  a  16- 
page  "core"  which  becomes  part  of  each 
school's  magazine. 

Here's  how  it  works.  In  the  Journal 
your're  holding,  for  example,  pages  1-12 
are  printed  only  for  the  WPI  Journal,  as 
are  pages  29-40.  Obviously,  publishing 
material  specific  to  WPI,  like  alumni  news 
and  profiles,  in  any  other  school's  alumni 
magazine  would  be  ludicrous.  But  readers 
from  each  consortium  school  are  at  this 


moment  browsing  the  very  same  articles 
that  appear  on  pages  I-XVI — the  core — 
of  this  issue  of  the  Journal. 

Much  of  this  issue,  for  example,  ad- 
dresses the  topic  of  hazardous  waste  man- 
agement, an  issue  which  affects  each  of 
us  in  one  way  or  another.  You'll  find  ar- 
ticles that  deal  with  this  controversial  sub- 
ject written  from  perspectives  that  are  both 
broad-based  and  specific  to  the  interests 
of  WPI. 

We  believe  you'll  like  what  you  see. 
But  please,  let  us  know  what  you  think 
of  this  arrangement.  And  if  you  have  an 
idea  begging  for  a  forum  that  reaches  far 
beyond  the  Journal's  audience,  let's  talk 
about  it.  It  may  find  a  home  in  the  core 
of  a  future  issue. 

Communication,  if  it  is  to  be  effective, 
must  be  a  two-way  street.  I  invite  your 
suggestions  regarding  topics  of  interest  and 
editorial  focus — suggestions  that  you  be- 
lieve will  help  us  in  our  drive  to  become 
an  even  better  WPI  Journal. 

Editor 


2        WPI  JOURNAL 


NEWS  FROM  THE  HILL 


Worcester  Consortium's 
Economic  Impact  Reported 

Employment  of  6,744  and  expenditures  of 
$575  million.  These  are  the  figures  re- 
ported recently  by  the  Worcester  Con- 
sortium for  Higher  Education  in  the  re- 
port, "Economic  Impact  of  Worcester 
Higher  Education,  1981."  Collectively,  the 
nine  colleges  or  universities  and  one  med- 
ical school  that  make  up  the  Consortium 
are  the  second  largest  employer  in 
Worcester  after  the  city  of  Worcester  it- 
self, according  to  the  study. 

The  operating  budgets  of  the  Consor- 
tium's members  amounted  to  more  than 
$230  million  during  academic  year  1981- 
82.  A  significant  portion  of  the  revenues 
necessary  to  sustain  these  budgets  was 
generated  from  out-of-state  sources,  e.g., 


federal  grants,  contracts,  private  gifts  and 
tuition  from  out-of-state  students. 

The  Consortium  report  details  employ- 
ment as  consisting  of  5,492  full-time  and 
1,252  part-time  facuhy  and  staff  mem- 
bers. WPI's  portion  of  these  totals  is  re- 
ported to  be  504  full-time  and  40  part- 
time  employees,  or  8  percent  of  the  Con- 
sortium's total  employment. 

The  magnitude  of  the  Consortium's  im- 
pact on  the  area's  economy  is  most  im- 
pressive if  viewed  in  relation  to  overall 
figures  for  the  area.  For  example.  Con- 
sortium employees  constitute  7  percent  of 
Worcester's  (92,000)  total  workforce. 

Revenues  and  the  employment  they 
generate  are  vital  statistics  in  an  assess- 
ment of  economic  impact.  But  they  tell 
only  part  of  the  story.  Typically,  revenues 
and  employment  are  considered  direct  im- 
pacts or  benefits.  But  since  most  revenues 


and  salaries  are  spent  by  Consortium  in- 
stitutions and  their  employees  in  and 
around  Worcester,  indirect  or  "spillover" 
benefits  to  the  community's  economy — 
revenues,  salaries  and  expenditures  of  the 
industries  and  merchants  which  serve  the 
Consortium,  as  well  as  the  antecedent 
businesses  serving  those  firms — amount 
to  far  more  than  the  $230  million  in  rev- 
enues reahzed  by  Consortium  members; 
thus  the  $575  million  reported  in  the  study's 
findings.' 

Often,  "impact"  studies  also  explore  the 
consequences  of  removing  the  specified 
contributions  from  the  economy.  The 
Consortium's  report,  however,  makes  no 


'  Total  impact  is  measured  by  applying  an 
economic  multiplier^n  this  case  2.50 — to 
the  direct  contributions  figure. 


1981  Economic  Impact  Statistics* 

1981                           1981  Faculty/Staff  Students 

Operating                   Capital  Full           Part  Full             Part 

Budget                      Budget  Time         Time  Time           Time 


Annual 

Visitors 


Capital 
Expense 
1965-1981 


Anna  Maria  College 

$    3,412,904 

$1,202,548 

64 

161 

457 

1,152 

2,600 

$    3,799,548 

Assumption  College 

10,982,000 

190,000 

179 

129 

1,550 

1,124 

10,000 

5,060,000 

Becker  Junior 
College 

4,600,000 

350,000 

95 

35 

1,302 

150 

4,500 

7,000,000 

Central  New 
England  College 

3,900,000 

350,000 

61 

110 

701 

1,125 

12,000 

4,233,000 

Clark  University 

24,586,000 

2,900,000 

474 

130 

2,334 

900 

20,000 

18,700,000 

College  of  the 
Holy  Cross 

26,965,000 

500,000 

670 

75 

2,510 

0 

185,000 

22,250,000 

Quinsigamond 
Community  College 

5,163,000 

0 

190 

80 

2,266 

3,527 

10,000 

9,623,000 

University  of 
Massachusetts 
Medical  Center 

111,000,000 

1,500,000 

2,925 

487 

442 

5,900 

83,000 

135,000,000 

Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute 

31,768,000 

2,500,000 

504 

40 

2,457 

300 

58,000 

24,084,323 

Worcester  State 
College 

7,790,000 

0 

330 

5 

2,735 

3,130 

2,250 

14,300,000 

Totals 

$230,166,904 

$9,492,548 

5,492 

1,252 

16,754 

17,308 

387,350 

$244,049,871 

'Institutional  data  are  self-reported. 


APRIL  1982 


mention  of  these  hypothetical  events.  Nor 
does  it  specifically  address  the  indirect  ef- 
fects of  expenditures  by  the  more  than 
34,000  full-  and  part-time  students  at- 
tending the  Consortium  institutions. 

WPI's  operational  budget,  as  reported 
in  the  report,  was  nearly  $31  million  in 
1981-82,  or  14  percent  of  the  Consor- 
tium's total.  Only  the  budget  of  the  Uni- 
versity of  Massachusetts  Medical  Center 
was  larger.  In  fact,  the  Center  accounted 
for  almost  50  percent  of  both  the  Con- 
sortium's overall  budget  and  its  total  em- 
ployment. 

Expenditures  for  capital  goods  among 
Consortium  institutions  totaled  $9.5  mil- 
Uon  in  1981-82.  By  comparison,  in  1980, 
the  most  recent  year  for  which  statistics 
are  available,  Worcester-area  firms  in- 
vested over  $158  million  in  land  and  new 
buildings  and  equipment.  What's  more, 
between  1965  and  1981  Consortium  mem- 
bers spent  some  $244  million  for  capital 
items — nearly  a  quarter  of  a  billion  dol- 
lars. 

But  what  of  the  more  qualitative  im- 
pacts of  education  on  the  community?  John 
W.  Ryan,  the  Consortium's  director,  calls 
the  Consortium  "a  most  desirable"  mem- 
ber of  the  community.  Few  would  argue 
this  point.  Education  is  an  environmen- 
tally clean,  labor-intensive  industry.  The 
Consortium  provides  Worcester-area  res- 
idents with  outstanding  opportunities  for 
art,  music  and  the  humanities.  And  it  of- 
fers counsel  and  assistance  to  all  Worces- 
ter citizens  through  community  services 
and  continuing  education  programs. 

Since  its  inception  in  1967,  the  Worces- 
ter Consortium  for  Higher  Education  has 
been  recognized  throughout  the  nation  as 
a  leading  example  of  cooperation  among 
institutions  of  higher  learning.  Cross-reg- 
istration, free  shuttle  bus  transportation 
and  collaborative  academic  programs  in 
medicine,  engineering,  business,  law,  ed- 
ucation and  communications  distinguish 
the  Consortium  arrangement.  In  addi- 
tion, the  three  million  volumes  housed  in 
the  libraries  of  Consortium  institutions 
serve  as  a  vital  community  resource. 

"And  an  element  that's  too  often  over- 
looked," says  Ryan,  "is  the  contribution 
in  time  and  effort  given  by  Consortium 
students,  faculty  and  staff  as  volunteers 
and  appointed  and  elected  officials  at  lo- 
cal schools,  hospitals  and  agencies  serving 
the  handicapped  and  aged.  These  are  im- 
pacts which  don't  lend  themselves  well  to 
econometric  analysis,  but  they  are  essen- 
tial to  the  well-being  of  the  community 
and  the  myriad  publics  which  we  serve." 

—  KLM 


Winter  Sports  Update 

WPI's  star  continues  to  rise  on  the  athletic 
horizon.  Last  fall  the  football  team  (6-2) 
and  the  field  hockey  team  (12-7,  sixth  in 
the  nation)  reached  meteoric  heights,  at- 
taining respect  and  admiration  through- 
out New  England  and  beyond. 

As  we  went  to  press,  the  men's  bas- 
ketball, hockey  and  wrestling  teams  were 
also  enjoying  sustained  successes. 

Men's  basketball,  under  the  direction 
of  coach  Ken  Kaufman,  got  off  to  the 
fastest  start  in  the  school's  64-year  history 
of  the  sport.  The  Engineers  won  their  first 
five  games,  including  an  88-78  victory  over 
Clark  in  the  finals  of  the  first  annual 
Worcester  Four  Tournament,  hosted  by 
WPI.  That  opening  season  streak  cata- 
pulted the  Engineers  to  the  top  of  the 
Division  III  polls,  ranking  WPI  No.  1  in 
New  England  and  No.  13  in  the  nation! 

But  after  a  spectacular  start,  the  team 
slipped,  losing  two  of  their  next  three 
games  (one  to  Springfield,  the  nation's 
No.  14  Division  II  team).  However,  with 
a  6-2  record,  WPI  was  still  ranked  No.  3 
in  New  England  and  No.  17  in  the  coun- 
try. 

In  statistics,  the  Engineers  are  led  by 
six-feet  five-inch  center  Russ  Philpot,  a 
sophomore  mechanical  engineering  ma- 
jor from  Somerville,  Massachusetts.  He 
is  averaging  20  points  and  nine  rebounds 
per  game.  But  as  everyone  knows,  one 
player  doesn't  make  a  team.  Four  players 
are  averaging  double  figures,  and  the  team 
leads  the  country  in  offensive  output  with 
89.5  points  a  game. 

"The  first  part  of  the  season  has  been 
very  enjoyable,"  says  Kaufman.  "We  won 
our  first  five  games,  won  our  own  tour- 
nament, and  we've  been  included  with  the 
best  teams  in  the  country.  It's  gratifying 
to  see  WPI  receive  that  kind  of  noto- 
riety." 

The  hockey  team  has  not  gotten  the 
same  national  attention,  but  it  has  be- 
come a  dominant  force  in  the  newly  formed 
New  England  Small  College  Hockey  As- 
sociation. Despite  the  fact  that  as  a  club 
sport,  the  WPI  hockey  team  competes 
against  varsity  competition,  the  Engi- 
neers are  currently  enjoying  a  perfect  9- 
0  record. 

Led  by  a  trio  of  seniors  from  Hudson, 
Massachusetts — right  wing  Pete  Millett, 
center  Jim  O'Keefe  and  defcnseman 
George  Oliver — WPI  has  outscored  its 
opponents  by  nearly  three  goals  per  game. 

"We've  been  blessed  with  some  out- 
standing talent,"  says  coach  Len  Bowen, 
"We  have  people  who  can  skate,  check. 


handle  the  puck  and  score.  I  don't  know 
if  we  can  continue  to  win  at  this  pace,  but 

1  feel  we  have  one  of  the  best  teams  in 
the  league." 

As  expected,  WPI's  wrestling  team  is 
off  to  another  good  start.  The  perennially 
strong  Engineers  are  right  where  coach 
Phil  Grebinar  expected  them  to  be  at  this 
point  in  the  season — 4-2  and  ranked  No. 

2  among  Division  III  New  England  teams. 
Both  losses  came  at  the  hands  of  Division 
I  schools:  Harvard  (rated  No.  1  in  New 


Russ  Philpot  (20),  WPI's  All-New 
England  center,  against  Clark  at 
Harrington  Auditorium. 

England)  and  the  University  of  New 
Hampshire  (No.  9). 

"We're  off  to  a  start  similar  to  past  sea- 
sons," says  Grebinar,  whose  team  fin- 
ished just  3/4  point  out  of  first  place  a 
year  ago  in  the  New  England  College 
Conference  Wrestling  Association  Cham- 
pionships. "Now  we're  going  into  the  Di- 
vision III  part  of  our  schedule,  and  we'll 
be  setting  our  sights  on  the  best  possible 
dual  meet  season  and  a  victory  in  the  tour- 
nament." 

Halfway  through  the  season,  the  swim- 
ming team  is  1-3,  women's  basketball  is 
3-4,  and  indoor  track  is  2-4. 

Mark  Mandel 
Sports  Information  Director 


WPI  JOURNAL 


WPI  Engineers  Spring  1982  Sports  Schedule 

DATE 

Sport 

Opponent 

Time 

April  2 

Golf 

Coast  Guard  Academy  at  Clark 

1:00  p.m. 

Baseball 

Bates 

3:00  p.m. 

3 

Baseball 

at  Wesleyan 

2:00  p.m. 

Tennis 

Bentley 

2:00  p.m. 

5 

Softball 

Assumption 

4:00  p.m. 

6 

Golf 

Bentley  at  Providence 

1:30  p.m. 

Baseball 

Lowell 

3:00  p.m. 

7 

Softball 

at  Clark 

4:00  p.m. 

Tennis 

at  Holy  Cross 

3:00  p.m. 

8 

Baseball 

Clark 

3:00  p.m. 

Softball 

Coast  Guard  Academy 

4:00  p.m. 

9 

Golf 

Babson/MIT  at  Babson 

12:30  p.m. 

10 

Baseball 

Hartford 

2:00  p.m. 

Tennis 

at  Babson 

2:00  p.m. 

Track 

Wesleyan/Eastern  Connecticut  at  Wesleyan 

1:00  p.m. 

12 

Softball 

at  Merrimack 

4:00  p.m. 

13 

Baseball 

A.I.C. 

3:00  p.m. 

Tennis 

at  Clark 

2:00  p.m. 

Golf 

Holy  Cross/Assumption  at  Holy  Cross 

1:00  p.m. 

Track 

Holy  Cross/Assumption/Clark/ 
Worcester  State  at  Holy  Cross 

14 

J.V.  Tennis 

at  Clark 

3:00  p.m. 

Softball 

at  Nichols 

4:00  p.m. 

Baseball 

Alvernia 

3:00  p.m. 

15 

Golf 

at  Mass.  State 

16 

Track 

M.l.T. 

4:00  p.m. 

Softball 

Anna  Maria 

4:30  p.m. 

Golf 

Clark/Tufts 

1:00  p.m. 

17 

Baseball 

Amherst  Double-Header 

1:00  p.m. 

Tennis 

Suffolk 

2:00  p.m. 

20 

Softball 

at  M.l.T. 

4:00  p.m. 

Golf 

Lowell 

1:00  p.m. 

Tennis 

Bates 

3:00  p.m. 

Baseball 

at  Trinity 

3:00  p.m. 

21 

Softball 

Stonehill 

3:30  p.m. 

Track 

at  Coast  Guard  Academy 

3:00  p.m. 

22 

Tennis 

Nichols 

3:00  p.m. 

Baseball 

at  Assumption 

3:00  p.m. 

23-24 

Softball 

M.A.l.A.W. 

24 

Tennis 

Assumption 

1:00  p.m. 

Baseball 

at  Coast  Guard  Academy  Double-Header 

1:00  p.m. 

27 

Softball 

Bryant 

4:00  p.m. 

28 

Tennis 

at  Lowell 

2:00  p.m. 

Track 

at  Trinity 

3:00  p.m. 

29 

Softball 

Regis 

4:00  p.m. 

JV  Tennis 

Becker  at  Leicester 

3:00  p.m. 

Golf 

Springfield 

1:00  p.m. 

Baseball 

Suffofk 

3:30  p.m. 

May  1 

Track 

Tufts/Brandeis 

1:00  p.m. 

Softball 

Holy  Cross  Double-Header 

10:30  a.m. 

Tennis 

at  Brandeis 

2:00  p.m. 

Baseball 

at  M.l.T.  Double-Header 

1:00  p.m. 

3 

Softball 

at  Brandeis 

4:00  p.m. 

Golf 

A.I.C./Nichols 

1:00  p.m. 

4 

Baseball 

at  Tufts 

3:00  p.m. 

5 

JV  Tennis 

at  Dean  JR. 

3:30  p.m. 

6 

Softball 

Curry 

4:30  p.m. 

Tennis 

A.I.C. 

3:00  p.m. 

7 

Baseball 

Mass.  Maritime 

3:00  p.m. 

Golf 

at  Trinity 

1:00  p.m. 

8 

Softball 

Emmanuel  Double-Header 

10:30  a.m. 

10 

Baseball 

at  Bentley 

3:00  p.m. 

12 

Baseball 

at  Northeastern 

4:00  p.m. 

14 

Baseball 

Brandeis 

3:00  p.m. 

Critical  Acclaim 
for  Menides 

"A  lover  of  poetry" 
is  how  she  describes 
herself.  Laura  Meni- 
des is  that  and  more. 
She's  a  noted  poetry 
critic,  author  of  chil- 
drens'  books,  an 
English  Professor  in 
WPI's  Humanities 
Department — and  a 
poet.  Two  of  her  recent  poems  will  be 
published  in  the  forthcoming  Anthology 
ofWomens'  Poetry,  the  Laurel  Press. 

Recently,  Professor  Menides  was  elected 
president  of  the  Worcester  County  Poetry 
Association.  In  a  recent  interview  she  de- 
scribed the  Association  as  a  local  group 
begun  11  years  ago  in  order  to  sponsor 
poetry  readings  and  other  special  events. 
The  Association  is  sponsored  in  part  by 
the  Massachusetts  Council  on  the  Arts  and 
Humanities. 

Archibald  MacLeish,  Donald  Hall, 
Carol  Oles  and  Maxine  Kumin,  each  an 
internationally  recognized  poet,  have  read 
their  work  locally  through  Association 
sponsorship,  as  have  local  poets  Fran 
Ouinn,  David  Barron,  Louise  Monfredo 
and  Malcolm  Parkinson,  himself  a  teacher 
in  WPI's  Humanities  Department. 

In  addition,  WPI  and  the  Association 
recently  co-sponsored  an  evening  of  po- 
etry and  music:  poems  by  Emily  Dickin- 
son and  e.e.  cummings  set  to  music  by 
WPI  Professor  David  McKay.  Spring  pro- 
grams will  include  appearances  by  Carlos 
and  Gloria  Fuentes  and  Czeslaw  Milocz. 

Commenting  on  the  receptiveness  of 
WPI  students  to  poetry  in  general,  Laura 
Menides  says,  "Given  a  chance — they're 
very  bright  people — many  get  caught  up 
in  the  poetry,  sometimes  in  spite  of  them- 
selves. 

Besides  poetry.  Professor  Menides 
teaches  advanced  essay  writing — "today 
it's  typically  crisp  and  breezy,  but  without 
neglect  for  vocabulary;"  American  liter- 
ature, her  specialty;  and  Existentialism. 
Previously  she  taught  at  Holy  Cross,  the 
University  of  Chicago,  Finch  College,  and 
New  York  University,  where  she  earned 
her  PhD. 

Her  stories  for  children  have  appeared 
in  Basic  Reading,  a  Harper  and  Row  pub- 
lication. 

Her  favorite  poet?  T.S.  Eliot.  "His  work 
is  intellectual  as  well  as  passionate.  It's 
that  combination  that  attracts  me." 

— KLM 


APRIL  1982 


Cleaning  Up  the  Campus 

Is  WPI  becoming  a  wasteland  of  hazardous  materials 

and  procedures?  Those  in  the  know  offer  a  resounding  reply. 

By  Kenneth  L.  McDonnell 


I  sat  upon  the  shore 
Fishing,  nith  the  plain  behind  me 
Shall  I  at  least  set  my  lands  in  order? 

— T.S.  EUot' 

^^  ^k  s  I  recall,  I'd  been  at  a  New 
/  ^  England  Patriots  game  that 
JL  JLafternoon.  When  I  returned 
home  I  got  a  call  from  campus  security. 
'Better  get  down  here,  Al.  We've  got  a 
leak  of  something  out  back  of  God- 
dard.'  " 

The  incident,  a  chemical  spill  from  a  5- 
gallon  barrel,  brought  Worcester  fire 
fighters,  state  and  federal  officials,  and 
curious  students  rushing  to  the  scene.  To 
the  scene  also  rushed  Allan  F.  Harper, 
WPI's  Business  and  Academic  Technical 
Services  Administrator  and  member  of  the 
Campus  Safety  Committee  (CSC),  which 
for  months  had  been  systematically  re- 
moving chemical  wastes  from  many  aca- 
demic departments.  For  Harper,  the  Pa- 
triots' win  that  day  quickly  lost  its  shine. 

But  when  the  scene  had  cleared  and  the 
panic  subsided,  Harper's  analysis  showed 
that  far  from  being  overly  hazardous,  the 
spill  amounted  to  no  more  than  three  gal- 
lons of  ethylene  glycol — common  anti- 
freeze— awaiting  pickup  and  disposal  by 
a  contractor  licensed  by  the  Environmen- 
tal Protection  Agency  (EPA). 

It's  no  secret  that  WPI — no  less  than 
the  companies  and  government  agencies 
for  which  many  of  our  graduates  later 
work — utilizes  chemical  substances  by  the 
hundreds  for  education  and  research.  Many 
of  these  chemicals  EPA  calls  "hazard- 
ous." And,  like  the  private  and  public 


'  From  "The  Waste  Land"  in  Collected 
Poems  190H-1962  by  IS.  Eliot,  copyright 
C  1936  by  Harcourt  Brace  Jovanovich.  Inc. 
copyright  €  1%3.  1964  by  T.S   Eliot.  Re- 
printed by  permission  of  the  publisher. 


organizations  that  use  or  manufacture 
hazardous  materials,  teaching  and  re- 
search often  produce  chemical  by-prod- 
ucts which,  again,  EPA  labels  hazard- 
ous— in  common  parlance,  hazardous 
wastes. 

It  is  reasonable,  then,  to  probe  the  haz- 
ardous materials  situation  at  WPI  as  well 
as  the  larger  issue  of  safety  on  campus. 
These  are  aspects  of  the  college  experi- 
ence which  are  demanding  ever  greater 
attention  by  administrators,  faculty,  stu- 
dents, parents  and  friends  of  nearly  every 
academic  institution.  At  WPI,  the  issue 
hits  especially  close  to  home. 

We  need  to  ask  questions  like: 

•  To  what  extent  does  the  quality  of  the 
WPI  experience  depend  on  the  use  of  haz- 
ardous materials  and  procedures? 

•  What  safeguards  are  in  place  to  en- 
sure safe  acquisition,  storage,  handling  and 
disposal  of  chemicals  and  radioactive  ma- 
terials by  students  and  faculty? 

•  What  is  WPI's  future  with  respect  to 
the  hazardous  materials  issue? 

•  Is  WPI  becoming  a  wasteland  of  haz- 
ardous materials? 

Chemical  waste  management  has 
long  been  an  issue  of  concern  at 
WPI.  As  early  as  1968  the  mem- 
ber schools  of  the  Worcester  Consortium 
for  Higher  Education  saw  the  need  for 
conscientious  long-term  management  of 
hazardous  wastes  generated  by  the  mem- 
ber schools.  Collectively,  they  attempted 
to  enlist  the  good  offices  of  the  City  of 
Worcester  to  designate  a  site  to  be  used 
specifically  for  hazardous  waste  disposal. 
The  Consortium's  cradle-to-grave  system 
would  have  predated  even  that  of  EPA. 
Unfortunately,  the  proposal  fell  on  deaf 
ears  at  City  Hall. 

The  inception  in  1970  of  the  WPI  Plan 
and  its  consequent  changes  in  academic 


requirements  boosted  the  school's  han- 
dHng  and  generation  of  hazardous  mate- 
rials. Formerly,  a  limited  number  of  de- 
partments required  a  senior  research 
project.  "But  the  Plan  changed  all  that," 
says  Harper.  "It  led  to  a  logarithmic  in- 
crease in  the  number  of  students  partici- 
pating in  project  work."  Conservative  es- 
timates indicate  that  35  to  40  percent  of 
undergraduates  are  now  engaged  in  Ma- 
jor Qualifying  Projects  (MQPs)  and  In- 
teractive Qualifying  Projects  (IQPs)  at  any 
one  time. 

Says  Dennis  J.  Lipka,  Projects  Admin- 
istrator and  CSC  chairperson.  "That's  lit- 
erally hundreds  of  projects  going  on  si- 
multaneously, utilizing  virtually  every  piece 
of  equipment  on  campus."  And,  as  proj- 
ect topics  cut  more  and  more  across  the 
bounds  of  academic  disciplines  and  the 
scope  of  students'  "majors,"  the  potential 
for  exposure  to  hazardous  materials  jumps. 

This  implication  of  the  Plan  soon  sur- 
faced. Growth  in  project  work  was  ex- 
panding the  need  for  greater  varieties  and 
quantities  of  chemicals  on  campus.  More- 
over, as  never  before,  the  school  was  pro- 
moting an  open-door  policy  on  supervised 
use  of  laboratories  and  workshops.  But 
far  from  merely  reacting  to  the  conse- 
quences of  this  shift,  WPI's  then-presi- 
dent George  Hazzard  and  others  recog- 
nized that  failing  to  anticipate  and  influence 
change,  failing  to  monitor  the  types  and 
quantities  of  hazardous  materials  ac- 
quired and  generated  on  campus,  might 
be  courting  disaster.  To  avoid  this  situa- 
tion, the  college  instituted  a  safeguards 
program  based  on  instruction,  supervi- 
sion, secure  storage,  and  proper  disposal. 

Today,  the  safety  program  looks  and 
works  much  as  it  did  ten  years  ago.  Its 
strength  lies  in  the  level  at  which  it  is  di- 
rected— professors  and  staff  who  work  with 
students.  Beyond  this,  key  individuals  in 


WPI  JOURNAL 


each  department  are  designated  to  man- 
age any  chemical  wastes  until  they  can  be 
properly  disposed. 

Although  the  focus  of  project  work  var- 
ies as  much  as  the  disciplines  involved, 
the  program  is  based  on  the  following 
broad  guidelines.  Prior  to  beginning  any 
project,  each  student  is  counseled  in: 

•  The  scope  of  the  project,  in  detailed 
terms 

•  The  maximum  types  and  amounts  of 
chemicals  to  be  used  as  well  as  appropri- 
ate standards  for  handling  and  storage 

•  What  to  expect  should  utility  services 
shut  down  during  an  experimental  pro- 
cedure 

•  The  proper  disposal  of  all  end  prod- 
ucts 

•  Other  concerns,  as  called  for  in  each 
project 

Many  academic  departments  have  also 
adopted  guidelines  for  after-normal-hours 
access  to  buildings,  such  as  a  buddy  sys- 
tem and  periodic  checks  by  campus  po- 
lice. In  addition,  unneeded  end  products 
can  sometimes  be  utilized  by  other  de- 
partments. 

^^  ^k  s  we  see  it,  safety  is  really  a 
^i^k  question  of  risk,"  says  Lipka. 
JL  jL"Appropriate  risk  for  one 
person  may  not  be  appropriate  for  some- 
one else." 

As  Projects  Administrator,  Lipka  is  in 
an  ideal  position  to  observe  the  magni- 
tude and  diversity  of  MQPs  and  IQPs  pro- 
posed, under  way  and  completed.  And  in 
dealing  with  so  many  students  and  faculty, 
he  gets  a  close  look  at  the  many  elements 
of  safety  on  campus.  Little  wonder  he  was 
named  to  head  CSC  when  the  committee 
convened  its  first  meeting  last  December. 

CSC  identifies  and  develops  solutions 
to  the  broad  issues  of  day-to-day  safety 
and,  to  some  extent,  security  on  campus. 
These  range  from  responding  to  random 
comments  from  campus  and  community 
residents  concerning  safety;  to  developing 
campus-wide  policy  recommendations  on 
toxic  waste  management  and  use  of  fa- 
cilities; to  encouraging  safer  working  hab- 
its among  WPI's  many  constituencies. 

"Here's  the  situation  confronting  us," 
says  Lipka.  "We  have  in  our  shops  and 
labs  the  same  types  of  equipment  found 
in  many  industrial  settings.  But  often,  rel- 
atively few  incoming  undergraduates  have 
extensive  experience  with  this  equip- 
ment." Plus,  projects — IPQs  in  particu- 
lar— can  require  students  to  use  proce- 
dures which  they  may  not  soon  replicate. 
All  this  can  lead  to  a  potentially  hazard- 
ous situation.  It's  the  job  of  CSC  to  man- 


**Safety  is  a  state  of 
mind,  to  be  nurtured  in 
all  students,  faculty 
and  staff." 

— Dennis  Lipka, 

Campus  Safety  Committee 


age  this  risk.  "Short  of  simply  barring  use 
of  a  lab  or  workshop,  we  must  try  to  pro- 
tect everyone  who  has  access  to  these  and 
our  many  other  facilities." 

That  CSC  even  exists  is  the  result,  in 
part,  of  the  Goddard  Hall  spill.  Before 
the  incident,  says  Lipka,  there  had  been 
no  real  vehicle  for  addressing  specific  safety 
issues  as  they  arose.  "Suddenly,  we  be- 
came aware  that  any  number  of  problems 
could  show  their  heads,  and  we  found  that 
a  variety  of  safety  and  security  concerns 
didn't  have  a  home."  Issues  like  these  have 
come  before  CSC: 

•  Cases  of  students  working  alone  in 
machine  shops  or  laboratories 

•  Availability  of  telephone  service  be- 
tween labs  and  campus  police 

•  Updating  safety  and  instructional 
manuals 

•  Incorporating  WPIC,  the  campus  tel- 
evision system,  into  a  security  monitoring 
unit 

Add  to  these  and  numerous  other  con- 
cerns the  question  of  security  in  places 
like  dormitories  and  public  areas,  and  you 
begin  to  realize  the  magnitude  of  the  is- 
sues to  be  managed. 

Lipka  points  out,  however,  that  normal 
security  is  the  domain  of  the  Campus  Po- 
lice Department.  "Duly  appointed  and 
well-trained,"  he  says,  "day-to-day  se- 


curity matters  reside  logically  in  Stratton 
Hall." 

As  Derinis  Lipka  and  Allan  Harper  will 
quickly  tell  you,  cooperation  is  the  name 
of  the  game  in  the  safety  business.  But 
too  often,  says  Anthony  Ruksnaitis,  Cam- 
pus Engineer,  WPI  Safety  Officer  and  CSC 
member,  the  campus  community  has  paid 
little  more  than  lip  service  to  past  safety 
campaigns.  In  his  25  years  at  WPI,  he's 
seen  safety  committees  come  and  go. 
Usually  they've  resembled  old  warriors, 
he  says.  They  kick  up  a  lot  of  dust,  but 
in  the  end  are  still  toothless. 

All  that  may  be  changing,  however.  Late 
in  1981,  CSC  set  out  to  investigate  am- 
bient air  lead  levels  at  the  Alumni  Gym- 
nasium rifle  range.  The  findings  of  a  U.S. 
Army  analysis  of  the  situation  confirmed 
the  suspicions  of  Col.  Roger  Carney,  head 
of  Military  Science  at  WPI:  Due  to  sub- 
standard ventilation  in  the  old  facility,  lead 
levels  in  the  air — the  result  of  countless 
bullets  being  fired — were  unacceptably 
high.  Confronted  with  this  situation,  CSC 
faced  the  first  real  test  of  its  authority. 

The  outcome?  Following  CSC  recom- 
mendations, the  range  was  closed  for  two 
months  while  lead  levels  were  systemat- 
ically reduced  in  accordance  with  govern- 
ment guidelines.  Recalls  Lipka,  "On  this 
one  we  expected  a  real  tug  of  war — peo- 
ple telling  us  their  lungs  and  blood  are 
their  business,  not  ours."  However,  he 
says,  cooperation  couldn't  have  been  bet- 
ter. 

But  hand-holding  is  not  the  role  Lipka 
sees  as  the  best  casting  for  CSC.  "Safety 
starts  with  the  facility  users,"  he  believes. 
"The  most  effective  long-term  impact  we 
can  have  is  to  make  the  WPI  community 
more  aware  of  the  importance  of  safety, 
appreciate  the  risks  that  may  accompany 
use  of  our  facilities,  and  help  develop  pol- 
icies for  operating  safely  in  this  environ- 
ment." The  track  record  of  faculty  and 
technicians,  he  says,  is  outstanding,  but 
with  students  moving  through  in  four-year 
cycles,  ensuring  safety  and  security  is  an 
ongoing  campaign. 

Faced  with  the  fact  that  the  work  of 
many  teachers,  students  and  re- 
searchers at  WPI  often  requires  the 
use  of  hazardous  materials,  should  we  as- 
sume that  we  have  a  hazardous  waste 
problem  on  our  hands? 

"The  chemicals  we  use  here,"  says 
Lipka,  "number  in  the  hundreds."  WPI 
has  declared  itself  a  generator  of  hazard- 
ous materials  and  now  participates  in  fed- 
eral regulations  of  toxic  wastes.  "We  han- 
dle many  of  the  substances  to  which  these 


APRIL  1982        7 


regulations  apply,  but  not  in  significant 
volumes." 

Theodore  C.  Crusberg.  Associate  Pro- 
fessor of  Life  Sciences,  sees  things  this 
way:  "Our  work  calls  for  the  use  of  scores 
of  chemicals.  But  we  don't  generate  enough 
chemical  wastes — not  even  close — to 
qualify  under  even  Massachusetts  regu- 
lations." 

The  state  guidelines  to  which  Crusberg 
refers  call  for  generators  of  over  100  Kgm 
per  month  to  obtain  a  state  Hazardous 
Wastes  Disposal  Permit.  Federal  regula- 
tions call  for  similar  licensing,  but  the 
threshold  is  ten  times  the  state  level. 

Says  Harper,  who  manages  hazardous 
wastes  at  WPI.  whether  or  not  the  college 
qualifies  under  the  state  regulations  de- 
pends on  whether  or  not  Professor  Al 
Weiss  of  Chemical  Engineering  is  oper- 
ating his  coal  degasification  project  in  a 
given  month.  When  in  operation,  this 
project  alone  puts  out  more  than  100  Kgm 
of  chemical  wastes  a  month. 

Prior  to  obtaining  these  permits,  recalls 
Harper,  the  college  had  decided  to  meas- 
ure its  chemical  wastes.  This  effort — cam- 
puswide  collection,  identification,  label- 
ing and  disposal — began  in  June  1981.  The 
materials  outside  Goddard  Hall,  those  that 
leaked  from  a  sun-drenched  and  thus 
overheated  steel  container,  were  part  of 
that  clean-up  program.  The  spill,  he  says. 
had  an  interesting  effect  on  the  normally 
slothlike  EPA  licensing  procedure.  Fol- 
lowing the  Goddard  incident,  a  telephone 
call  from  Harper  to  EPA  netted  a  verbal 
authorization  that  WPI  had  been  granted 
a  disposal  permit  number.  But  to  date. 


no  permit  has  been  received  by  WPI  of- 
ficials. 

Crusberg's  policy  for  handling  hazard- 
ous materials  in  his  labs  is  one  of  caution. 
Consider,  for  example,  the  work  done  on 
bacteria.  "Our  philosophy  is  to  treat 
everything  as  a  pathogen,  more  like  Esch- 
erichia sp.  than  Salmonella  sp."  When 
students  are  handling  any  bacteria,  an  ex- 
perienced professor  or  graduate  student 
is  always  on  hand.  "And  it's  a  policy  we 
enforce." 

Beyond  self-management,  many  pro- 
jects in  Life  Sciences  are  overseen  by  WPI's 
Biohazards  Safety  Committee  (BSC), 
headed  by  Professor  Douglas  T.  Browne, 
Associate  Professor  of  Chemistry.  Some 
observers  believe,  however,  that  the  ef- 
fectiveness of  BSC,  a  federally  estab- 
lished body,  may  face  setbacks  due  to 
budget  cutting  by  the  Reagan  Adminis- 
tration. 

While  hazardous  materials  man- 
agement is  a  major  concern  of 
CSC,  management  of  radio- 
active materials  is  an  animal  of  a  different 
breed. 

Dr.  Raymond  Goloskie.  Associate  Pro- 
fessor of  Physics,  chairs  WPI's  Radiation, 
Health  &  Safeguards  Committee  (RHSC). 
He  is  also  his  department's  CSC  repre- 
sentative. When  he  holds  up  NRC-10- 
CFR20,  the  four-inch-thick  bible  of  the 
Nuclear  Regulatory  Commission  (NRC), 
you  get  the  distinct  impression  that  the 
NRC  means  business.  It's  the  job  of  the 
four-member  RHSC  to  ensure  WPI's 
compliance  with  the  guidelines  so  pains- 


takingly detailed  in  NRC-10-CFR20. 

Most  use  of  radioactive  materials  on 
campus,  he  says,  takes  place  in  Life  Sci- 
ences, Physics  and,  of  course,  the  nuclear 
reactor.  For  his  part,  Professor  Goloskie 
conducts  research  in  intermediate  particle 
physics,  a  pursuit,  he  says  with  tongue  in 
cheek,  that  helps  keep  physicists  off  the 
street. 

According  to  Goloskie,  radiation  is  "not 
particularly  problematic"  at  WPI .  In  fact, 
he  says,  a  single  battery  of  X-rays  exposes 
an  individual  to  more  radiation  than  WPI's 
reactor  or  laboratory  procedures  possibly 
can. 

But  NRC's  acceptable  radiation  levels 
are  very  low.  Case  in  point:  During  a  rou- 
tine inspection  in  his  own  lab,  the  Com- 
mission found  unacceptable  amounts  of 
radioactive  dust  on  ceiling  and  walls.  The 
problem,  explains  Goloskie,  was  the  re- 
sult of  a  long-term  procedure  using  trit- 
ium, the  radioactive  isotope  of  hydrogen, 
where  it  mixed  with  dust  and  adhered  to 
most  surfaces  in  the  several  rooms  of  the 
laboratory.  Tritium  is  not  an  overly  dan- 
gerous isotope,  and  the  measured  levels 
of  radiation  were  not  great,  he  says,  but 
NRC's  stringent  guidelines  called  for  a 
moratorium  on  use  of  the  facility  while  it 
received  a  thorough  scrubdown. 

The  work  of  Crusberg  and  his  associ- 
ates and  students  often  calls  for  low-level 
radioactive  isotopes  as  well.  For  example, 
isotopes  are  an  integral  part  of  procedures 
for  labeling  certain  portions  of  DNA  chains 
in  plants.  "The  major  problem  we  have 
with  these  substances,"  he  says,  "is  or- 
dering them  in  small  enough  quantities  to 
meet  our  needs."  All  such  substances  are 
stored  and  labeled  in  the  proper  con- 
tainers, and  their  use  is  restricted  to  a 
controlled  environment  in  the  lab. 

A  key  figure  on  RHSC  is  Thomas  P. 
White.  He  serves  as  WPI's  Radiological 
Safety  Officer  (RSO)  as  well  as  Nuclear 
Specialist  in  Mechanical  Engineering.  He's 
also  senior  operator  of  WPI's  nuclear  re- 
actor. As  RSO  he  oversees  all  procure- 
ment, use  and  disposal  of  radioactive  ma- 
terials on  campus.  "That's  a  lot  of 
responsibility,"  says  Goloskie. 

But  White  seems  up  to  the  task.  He 
trained  as  a  nuclear  reactor  operator 
aboard  a  U.S.  Navy  submarine,  before 
serving  as  a  nuclear  quality  assurance  in- 
spector for  Yankee  Atomic  Electric  Com- 
pany. 

NRC,  he  says,  runs  a  tight  ship,  "They 

c 

s   Splittinfi  Atoms.  WPI's  nuclear  reactor  is 
X  open  to  the  public. 


WP!  JOURNAL 


inspect  our  reactor  facilities  unan- 
nounced, and  their  guidelines  are  among 
the  toughest  ever  devised."  But  the  re- 
sponsibility for  safe  operation  of  nuclear 
reactors,  he  adds,  really  rests  with  the  op- 
erator. "In  many  cases,  our  own  policies 
are  even  more  strict  than  those  of  NRC, 
but  not  to  the  extent  that  we  hamper  the 
process  of  federal  approval  of  WPI's  pro- 
curement of  radioactive  materials." 

The  heart  of  the  radioactive  materials 
question  is  most  likely  the  issue  of  waste 
disposal.  But  because  of  the  specific  types 
and  amounts  of  materials  on  campus. 
White  explains,  "We  can  hardly  call  dis- 
posal a  problem."  Legally,  he  says,  many 
radioactive  substances  can  be  put  down 
the  drain  or  out  in  the  trash.  Sulfur  35, 
for  example,  is  an  isotope  used  commonly 
in  Life  Sciences.  But  the  quantities  on 
hand — only  microcuries — and  its  charac- 
teristics— including  a  half-life  of  only  86.7 
days — allow  its  users  to  dispose  of  it  like 
household  garbage.  Similarly,  though  it 
has  a  half-life  of  5730  years,  the  quantities 
of  Carbon  14  utilized  on  campus  can  be 
legally  disposed  of  in  the  sameway. 

"In  fact,"  says  White,  "we  have  a 
household-sized  Sears  kitchen  compactor 
at  the  reactor.  If  a  radioactive  substance 
is  spilled  somewhere  on  campus,  we  com- 
pact the  cleaning  cloths  and  containers, 
store  the  material  in  steel  cylinders,  and 
eventually  put  it  out  with  the  trash."  The 
compactor  hasn't  been  run  since  1973. 

White  acknowledges  the  controversy 
surrounding  nuclear  power.  But  he  be- 
lieves that  while  the  college  prefers  a  low-- 
profile  approach  to  publicizing  the  facil- 
ity, it  is  in  the  best  interest  of  both  WPI 
and  the  public  to  clarify  any  misconcep- 
tions people  may  entertain  concerning  nu- 
clear power.  White:  "Some  people  think 
we  heat  WPI's  swimming  pools  or  light 
buildings  or  power  the  stoves  at  food  serv- 
ice. But  on  guided  tours  of  the  facility — 
by  some  1,000  visitors  last  year  alone — 
we  do  out  best  to  dispel  such  misunder- 
standings while  satisfying  people's  curi- 
osity." (See  box  on  this  page.) 

"Low  profile"  describes  the  facility  it- 
self, a  10  Kw  open-pool  research  reactor. 
"Ten  kilowatts  is  about  the  electricity 
drawn  by  two  pop-up  toasters,"  he  says. 

Although  WPI  doesn't  offer  a  degree 
program  in  nuclear  power,  many  students 
as  well  as  faculty  use  the  reactor  for  proj- 
ect work.  For  example,  MQPs  and  IQPs 
often  call  for  examination  of  materials 
under  the  influence  of  a  radioactive  field. 
This  procedure  provides  students  with 
hands-on  experience  with  a  reactor,  val- 
uable credentials  for  employment  after 


graduation.  Still,  utilization  of  the  reactor 
is  relatively  light.  It  operates  for  only  three 
to  four  hours  per  week.  Other  times,  it  is 
completely  shut  down. 

Since  it  went  critical  in  1959,  the  reactor 
facility  has  been  directed  by  Dr.  Leslie  C. 
Wilbur.  The  fuel  enlisted  in  1959,  says 
White,  is  the  same  fuel,  Uranium  235, 
you'll  find  here  today,  so  little  has  the 
reactor  been  used.  At  today's  rate  of  uti- 
lization, this  same  fuel  should  last  another 
300  years.  Corrosion  of  other  parts  of  the 
reactor  will  occur  long  before  the  need  to 
transport  and  dispose  of  any  spent  fuel. 
In  practical  terms,  this  situation  exempts 
the  college  from  the  myriad  regulations 


governing  the  disposal  of  nuclear  waste. 

Today,  the  facility's  license  to  operate 
is  due  to  be  renewed  for  another  20  years. 
But  of  late,  small  research  reactors  like 
t^at  at  WPI  have  been  placed  on  the  back 
burner  at  NRC,  what  with  all  the  atten- 
tion focusing  on  Three  Mile  Island. 

But  White  has  every  reason  to  believe 
that  his  operation  will  comply  with  the 
Commission's  increasingly  exacting 
standards.  To  be  licensed,  the  operator 
must  demonstrate  in  a  simulated  emer- 
gency that  the  reactor  can  be  shut  down 
in  600  milliseconds.  Says  White,  "The 
grades  we've  gotten  from  NRC  have  al- 
ways been,  let  us  say,  glowing." 


Lunch,  Anyone? 

"Our  most  popular  exhibit,"  says  Thomas 
P.  White,  Senior  Operator  and  Nuclear 
SpeciaUst  of  WPI's  nuclear  reactor  facil- 
ity, "could  be  as  close  as  your  own  pan- 
try." 

In  the  early  1900s,  reports  White,  var- 
ious uranium  compounds  were  used  to 
produce  brilliant  orange-red  glazes  for  ce- 
ramic ware.  The  best-known  brand,  Fies- 
taware,  was  manufactured  by  the  Homer 
Laughlin  China  Company  of  East  Liver- 
pool, Ohio,  at  one  time  the  largest  pottery 
plant  in  the  world.  Due  to  its  rugged  con- 
struction, Fiestaware  could  be  found  in 
countless  homes  across  the  country  before 
World  War  II.  But  when  the  war  effort 
placed  stringent  controls  on  uranium  ores, 
the  company  was  forced  to  halt  produc- 
tion of  the  orange-red  dishes.  The  com- 
pany went  out  of  business  in  1973. 

Today,  Fiestaware  is  a  prized  collect- 
able. And  because  uranium  presented 
certain  production  problems,  the  orange- 
red  plates,  cups,  saucers,  etc.  are  espe- 
cially valuable. 

Official  studies  make  little  mention  of 
any  risk  these  ceramics  present  to  their 
users,  because  most  of  the  radioactivity 
emitted  is  beta  particles,  and  the  dose  is 
normally  confined  to  the  hands. 

But,  says  White,  "We  have  found  that 
many  of  these  dishes  have  become  worn, 
which  increases  the  chances  of  ingestion 
of  some  of  the  glazes."  On  contact  each 
plate  reads  about  6  millirems  per  hour  on 
the  Geiger  counter.  "You  can  compare 
this  to  the  200  or  so  millirems  that  mem- 
bers of  the  general  public  receive  each 
year — to  the  entire  body — from  normal 
background  sources. 

"We  emphasize  to  our  visitors  that  these 


"Look  at  but  don't  eat  from  orange 
Fiestaware  dishes,"  cautions  Tom  White. 


dishes  are  no  longer  in  production  and 
that  today  any  use  of  radioactive  sub- 
stances is  strictly  controlled  by  the  Nu- 
clear Regulatory  Commission  with  the 
public's  safety  always  in  mind." 

He  recommends  that,  although  no  im- 
mediate health  hazards  exist  due  to  Fies- 
taware, people  who  use  these  ceramics — 
the  orange-red  colored  variety  only — might 
consider  replacing  them  with  another  color, 
but  not  necessarily  discarding  them.  "They 
are  valuable  collectors'  items,"  White  adds, 
"but  any  unnecessary  exposure  to  radia- 
tion should  be  minimized." 


APRIL  1982 


PROTECTS 


A  review  of  MQPs,  IQPs  and  research 
by  WPl  faculty  and  visiting  professors 


Whether  at  the  undergraduate,  graduate  or 
faculty  level,  projects  play  an  integral  role 
in  the  WPI  experience.  Projects  help  in- 
dividuals learn  to  evaluate  information, 
identify  problems  and  implement  solu- 
tions. Mastering  this  process  is  marked  by 
growth  in  experience,  self -discipline,  re- 
sourcefulness and  self-confidence.  In  this 
and  subsequent  issues  of  the  Journal  we 
will  feature  the  projects  of  several  members 
of  the  WPI  community .  We  hope  you  will 
find  these  briefs  thought-provoking  and 
helpful  in  the  endless  process  of  solving 
problems  in  the  real  world — a  process  we 
all  share  in. 

Hazardous  Wastes 

at  Boston  Edison: 

The  Impact  of  Coal  Firing 

By  Michael  P.  Brousseau,  '83,  ME; 
and  William  J.  Thorpe,  '83,  ME 
Prof.  K.  Keshavan,  CE,  Advisor 

Residual  fuel  oil  is  now  the  nation's  most 
widely  used  fuel  for  the  generation  of 
electrical  power.  Since  1970,  however,  the 
cost  of  oil  has  shot  up  from  $2  to  over  $30 
per  barrel,  making  fuel  costs  over  50  per- 
cent of  the  total  cost  of  oil-fired  electricity 
generation.  Due  to  this  better  than  fif- 
teen-fold jump  in  oil  prices,  many  power 
companies  are  investigating  the  relative 
costs  and  benefits  of  alternative  fuels.  A 
leading  candidate,  especially  in  the 
Northeast,  is  coal.  Boston  Edison  is  but 
one  of  many  energy  producers  consider- 
ing the  switch — in  part  or  entirely — to  this 
cheap  and  plentiful  fuel. 

But  while  coal  offers  major  advantages 
in  cost  and  availability  to  producers  in 
New  England  and  elsewhere,  the  threat 
of  environmental  contamination  from 
burning  coal  can  be  significantly  greater 
than  that  from  oil  firing.  Consequently, 
more  elaborate  and  costly  pollution-con- 
trol measures  are  necessary  to  meet  cur- 
rent federal,  state  and  local  regulations. 
And  as  coal  replaces  oil,  the  additional 


disposal  costs  and  site  demands  also  rise. 
Very  soon,  coal's  luster  may  begin  to  fade. 

To  help  Boston  Edison  evaluate  the  en- 
vironmental and  economic  feasibility  of 
converting  its  Mystic  Station  in  Everett, 
Massachusetts,  from  oil  to  coal  firing,  two 
WPI  students  are  investigating  the  many 
facets  of  this  controversial  and  far-reach- 
ing issue.  Their  interdisciplinary  ap- 
proach includes  not  only  a  cost-benefit 
analysis  of  alternative  pollution-control 
and  waste-disposal  technologies,  but  also 
a  thorough  consideration  of  the  regula- 
tions pertaining  to  coal  firing. 

Coal  firing  itself  can  present  problems 
of  type  as  well  as  degree.  It  creates  three 
kinds  of  wastes:  bottom  ash,  or  unburned 
coal;  fly  ash,  minute  particles  drawn  into 
the  atmosphere  by  exhaust  gases;  and 
scrubber  sludge,  a  precipitate  of  calcium 
sulfate  or  calcium  sulfite  resulting  from 
the  processing  of  flue  gases  before  they 
leave  the  plant.  Fly  ash  and  bottom  ash 
are  common  to  both  oil-  and  coal-burning 
processes,  but  coal  produces  much  greater 
amounts  of  this  by-product  than  oil. 

Collecting  and  disposing  of  coal-fired 
by-products  would  not  be  so  costly  if  one 
technique  could  accommodate  all  three 
wastes.  Unfortunately,  this  is  not  the  case. 
On  top  of  all  this,  current  regulations  dic- 
tate with  amazing  specificity  what  proc- 
esses can  be  used  to  dispose  of  each  type 
of  waste. 

Taken  together,  the  problem  facing 
Boston  Edison  and  Brousseau  and  Thorpe 
can  be  structured  as  a  three-by-three  ma- 
trix, where  waste  collection,  processing 
and  disposal  each  impact  upon  and  are 
influenced  by  economic,  technological  and 
regulatory  issues. 

Untangling  this  web  of  confounding 
variables  requires  a  solid  grounding  in  each 
element  of  the  matrix.  The  project  will 
incorporate  close  communication  be- 
tween WPI  and  Boston  Edison,  with  a 
thorough  analysis  of  waste  amounts  gen- 
erated, collection  and  disposal  techniques 
and  locations  available,  the  short-  and  long- 
term  economic  and  environmental  im- 


pacts of  each  alternative,  and  the  nuances 
of  the  Resource  Conservation  and  Re- 
covery Act.  Finally,  Brousseau  and  Thorpe 
will  present  their  findings  and  recommen- 
dations to  Boston  Edison. 


Monitoring  Hazardous 
Wastes  in  Wobum 

By  John  F.  Paladino,  '83,  EE;  John 
Summers,  '83,  ME;  and  Michael 
Treglia,  '83,  CE 

Prof.  Malcolm  FitzPatrick,  CE,  and 
Prof.  Richard  V.  Olsen,  Mathematical 
Sciences,  Advisors 

In  its  formative  years,  Woburn,  Massa- 
chusetts, grew  rapidly  as  a  center  for  in- 
dustry and  commerce,  due  largely  to  the 
completion  in  1803  of  the  Middlesex  Canal, 
connecting  Lowell  with  Boston.  Woburn 
sat  at  the  midpoint  of  this  waterway.  Easy 
access  to  the  Boston  and  Maine  Railroad 
also  contributed  to  the  town's  growth. 

The  next  century  was  to  see  chemical 
and  tanning  firms  lead  Woburn's  eco- 
nomic expansion.  But  it  was  not  until  the 
end  of  the  nineteenth  century  that  the  fed- 
eral government  acted  to  regulate  the 
growing  volume  and  diversity  of  industrial 
waste  products.  For  many  years  the  Ref- 
use Act  of  1899  provided  for  permits  for 
the  burial  of,  for  example,  animal  hides 
and  tanning  chemicals.  Conventional  wis- 
dom at  the  time  had  it  that  industrial  by- 
products thus  disposed  would  simply  de- 
compose and  be  acted  upon  by  the  good 
earth's  natural  filtration. 

But  as  business  and  populations  grew 
in  Woburn  and  countless  other  eastern 
industrial  cities,  so  too  did  industrial 
wastes.  The  legacy  of  this  growth  and  the 
realization  that  early  disposal  methods 
were  pitifully  inadequate  are  only  now  be- 
ginning to  surface. 

In  fact,  in  1979  the  EPA  ordered  two 
of  Woburn's  supplies  of  drinking  water 
closed  due  to  trace  amounts  of  carcino- 
genic substances  found  in  them.  And  not 


10        WP!  JOURNAL 


long  ago,  toxic  materials  containing  ar- 
senic and  lead  were  found  in  a  lagoon  near 
the  old  Merimac  Chemical  Company  site. 

Recognizing  the  potential  for  repeated, 
perhaps  even  more  insidious  scenarios 
throughout  the  nation,  WPI  students  John 
Paladino,  John  Summers  and  Michael 
Tregha  decided  to  respond  with  some 
strong  medicine.  Currently  they  are  de- 
veloping a  practical  method  for  tracking 
the  production,  transportation  and  dis- 
posal of  hazardous  wastes  in  Woburn.  They 
intend  to  apply  this  model  to  the  problems 
of  other  communities. 

The  WPI  model  utilizes  the  Standard 
Industrial  Classification  (SIC)  system  to 
categorize  potential  and  known  hazard- 
ous waste  producing  industries  and  spe- 
cific firms  therein.  Interviews,  investiga- 
tions of  company  records,  and  on-site 
inspections  will  yield  a  list  of  industries 
and  companies  by  SIC  code  which  gen- 
erate regulated  amounts  of  hazardous 
wastes. 

After  further  case-by-case  analysis,  the 
model  will  enable  investigators  to  identify 
systematically,  quickly  and  accurately  the 
factors  which  distinguish  known  from 
merely  potential  producers.  In  the  end, 
the  WPI  team  believes  the  model  will  en- 


hance regulatory  activities  by  providing 
an  effective  tracking  method  at  minimal 
cost  to  government — and  to  the  public. 

Ocean  Waste  Disposal 
in  the  New  York  Bight 

By  Stephen  M.  LaFrance,  '83  CE 
Prof.  Malcolm  FitzPatrick,  Advisor 

For  nearly  100  years  the  principal  means 
of  disposing  of  New  York  City's  wastes 
has  been  ocean  dumping.  Each  year  an 
estimated  1.2  x  10^  cubic  meters  of  mu- 
nicipal wastes,  sewage  sludge,  dredge  spoils 
and  acid  wastes  are  dumped  at  sea.  Only 
recently  have  the  environmental  impli- 
cations of  ocean  waste  disposal  begun  to 
emerge. 

The  area  of  ocean  known  as  the  New 
York  Bight — roughly  the  sea  from  Mon- 
tauk  Point,  Long  Island,  to  Cape  May, 
New  Jersey — is  one  ofthe  nation's  most 
important  coastal  regions.  The  Bight  not 
only  contains  vital  shipping  routes  and 
major  fishing  banks;  it  also  provides  boat- 
ing, recreational  fishing,  beaches  and 
swimming  waters  for  20  million  people. 

One  more  point  about  the  Bight:  It, 


Student  projects — MQPs  and  IQPs — can  lead  to  new  and  exiciting  endeavors. 


and  specifically  its  2,500  square  mile 
northwestern  corner  near  the  City, — the 
apex — contains  the  designated  dumpsites 
for  the  whole  of  New  York  City. 

There's  more.  On  top  of  New  York's 
waste  dumping  in  this  area  is  added  sew- 
age from  outfalls  and  heavy  shipping  traffic. 
But  these  dumpings  are  difficult  to  mon- 
itor, and  little  baseline  data  exist  on  aquatic 
life  and  water  quality.  Hence  determining 
the  short-  and  long-term  effects  of  heavy 
metals,  coliform  bacteria  and  other  chem- 
icals and  toxins — the  more  hazardous  ele- 
ments of  dumpings — has  been  effectively 
frustrated.  But  the  impacts  of  these  ma- 
terials continue  unabated:  drastic  reduc- 
tions in  photosynthetic  productivity,  det- 
rimental increases  in  nitrogen  and 
phosphate,  lower  oxygen  content  of  the 
water,  wholesale  death  to  ocean  and  pos- 
sibly land  life  of  all  kinds. 

Last  summer,  WPI's  Stephen  LaFrance 
set  out  to  build  a  body  of  knowledge  on 
the  effects  of  ocean  dumping  on  the  Bight. 
From  aboard  the  research  vessel  West- 
ward, operated  by  the  Sea  Education  As- 
sociation of  Woods  Hole,  Massachusetts, 
LaFrance  collected  water  samples  to  test 
for  concentrations  of  copper,  various  nu- 
trients, dissolved  oxygen,  turbidity  and 
coliform  bacteria.  His  findings,  which  agree 
with  those  of  other  researchers,  revealed 
that  ocean  dumping  has  made  a  significant 
contribution  to  ocean  pollution  in  the  apex 
of  the  Bight.  How  far  beyond  the  apex 
these  effects  are  felt  was  not  within  the 
scope  of  this  project. 

LaFrance  also  compiled  data  on  the  en- 
vironmental impact,  cost  and  technolog- 
ical feasibility  of  alternative  disposal 
methods.  Land  filling,  incineration,  com- 
posting and  land  spreading  were  the  op- 
tions evaluated.  As  might  be  expected, 
tradeoffs  among  these  techniques  can  be 
enormous,  not  only  economically  and 
environmentally,  but  politically  and  emo- 
tionally as  well.  Presently,  the  several  land- 
based  disposal  options  appear  to  be  prom- 
ising. But  considering  the  premium  placed 
on  land  in  and  around  New  York,  it  is 
difficult  to  consider  these  as  serious  al- 
ternatives. 

Authorities  expect  New  York's  wastes 
to  triple  by  the  year  2000.  Hence  the  cor- 
roborating findings  of  LaFrance  and  others 
like  him  make  New  York's  waste  disposal 
decision  only  slightly  less  wrenching. 
Nevertheless,  as  he  plot  thickens,  it  is  this 
type  of  research  that  will  enable  decision 
makers  to  cast  prudent,  cost-effective  reg- 
ulatory policies — policies  which  may  in- 
pact  upon  aquatic  and  land  populations 
far  from  the  Big  Apple. 


APRIL  1982 


11 


CASE  IN  POINT 


Toxic  Wastes  in  Massachusetts: 
The  View  of  One  Citizen-Engineer 

By  John  R.  Mortarelli,  79,  MS.  BE 


An  honest  solution  to  the  toxic  waste  dis- 
posal problem  should  not  jeopardize  the 
pristine  lands  left  in  this  or  any  other  state. 
But  in  Massachusetts,  legislation  on  the 
books  does  not  adequately  address  this 
concern.  As  a  biomedical  engineer  and 
Massachusetts  resident.  I  am  deeply  con- 
cerned about  the  state's  ability,  through 
its  regulatory  agencies,  to  guarantee  ef- 
fective and  appropriate  safeguards  for  the 
health  and  well-being  of  its  citizens. 

As  a  state,  our  solution  to  hazardous 
wastes  must  tackle  the  issue  at  its  roots, 
at  the  source  of  generation.  This  means 
discouraging  unnecessary  production  of 
toxic  materials.  Today,  however,  we  have 
no  enforceable  "carrot  and  stick"  legis- 
lation to  induce  industry  to  alter  produc- 
tion methods  and  materials  to  include  less- 
or non-toxic  materials. 

Still,  in  a  statewide  environmental  im- 
pact report  released  in  1981,  the  Massa- 
chusetts Department  of  Environmental 
Management  (DEM)  predicted  that  a  50 
percent  reduction  in  the  generation  of 
hazardous  wastes  could  be  achieved  in  ten 
years.  In  fact,  some  industries  were  re- 
ported promising  to  reduce  such  wastes 
by  80  percent  in  that  time.  But  in  the 
absence  of  effective  financial  incentives. 
is  it  reasonable  to  expect  achievement  of 
these  goals?  Incorporating  disposal  costs 
into  the  market  prices  of  products  is  one 
solution,  and  an  approach  suggested  by 
the  Environmental  Protection  Agencv 
(EPA). 

Whatever  the  solution  to  toxic  waste 
disposal,  it  should  embrace  only  those 
technologies  which  are  at  the  outset 
deemed  most  safe  rather  than  least  costly. 
For  to  "treat"  a  waste  is  not  necessarily 
to  detoxify  it.  Consider,  for  example,  so- 
lar evaporation,  a  relatively  inexpensive 
procedure  that  greatly  reduces  the  vol- 
ume of  a  material,  but  which  also  allows 
the  volatile  components  ot  the  waste  to 
be  evaporated  into  the  atmosphere.  The 
remaining  sludge  has  been  treated  but  may 
well  be  more  toxic  following,  rather  than 
prior  to,  disposal  processing. 

Toxic  waste  facilities  have  never  been 


good  neighbors.  As  recently  as  Septem- 
ber 1981,  the  General  Accounting  Office 
released  a  report  evaluating  the  perform- 
ance of  hazardous  waste  facilities  oper- 
ating under  EPA  interim  status.  The  re- 
port concluded  that  interim  status,  under 


which  Massachusetts  has  disposed  of  its 
toxic  wastes  since  1980,  "...  cannot  rea- 
sonably be  expected  to  provide  the  gen- 
eral public  with  necessary  health  and  en- 
vironmental assurances."  But  when  state 
officials  conducted  similar  inspections,  they 
did  not  identify  as  serious  problems  such 
items  as  leaking  drums,  storage  of  incom- 
patible wastes,  or  containers  stored  with- 
out leachate  collection  systems. 

In  effect,  then,  the  Massachusetts  Haz- 
ardous Waste  Siting  Law  (MGL-21D)  puts 
the  fox  in  charge  of  the  hen  house.  It 
assumes  that  a  hazardous  waste  industry 
allowed  to  compete  in  a  free  market  econ- 
omy is  presently  endowed  with  sufficient 
expertise  and  adequate  technologies  to 
dispose  properly  of  hazardous  wastes. 
Operating  under  this  premise,  the  legis- 
lation encourages  industry  to  site  any- 
where in  the  state. 

What's  more,  M(}L-21Ddoes  not  man- 
date that  only  enough  facilities  be  created 
to  match  projected  Massachusetts  off-site 
disposal  needs.  To  date,  three  companies 
have  been  granted  "feasible  and  deserv- 
ing" status  as  developers  of  toxic  waste 
treatment  centers.  But  a  brief  look  at  waste 


magnitudes  generated  nationally  should 
raise  a  bright  red  flag.  Of  the  nearly  40 
million  dry  metric  tons  of  toxic  wastes 
generated  in  the  United  States  annually, 
some  60  percent  is  produced  by  only  ten 
states.  Not  one  of  these  is  a  state  in  New 
England. 

If  a  substantial  hazardous  waste  indus- 
try develops  in  Massachusetts,  more  than 
likely  it  will  process  great  amounts  of  ma- 
terials generated  well  beyond  our  bor- 
ders. In  fact,  the  rotary  kiln  incinerator 
proposed  by  one  of  these  "deserving"  de- 
velopers will  operate  with  a  nominal  feed 
stock  of  about  15  tons  per  hour.  This  is 
an  amount  so  large  relative  to  our  pro- 
jected needs,  that  for  every  ten  barrels 
incinerated,  roughly  nine  must  come  from 
out  of  state.  What's  more,  the  firm's  no- 
tification of  intent  (NOI)  states  that  it  is 
proposing  a  de  facto  regional  facility. 

Obviously,  nobody  wants  a  toxic  waste 
facility  in  his/her  backyard.  But  is  Mas- 
sachusetts, New  England's  most  populous 
state,  the  best  site  for  one?  Is  this  the  most 
appropriate  place  to  build  a  $100  million 
plant,  the  largest  in  the  nation,  when  we 
produce  so  little  of  the  wastes  that  would 
be  needed  to  make  this  operation  cost- 
effective?  Do  we  want  to  handle  300,000 
to  400,000. tons  of  hazardous  wastes  a  year, 
being  fed  by  a  convoy  of  100  to  200  trucks 
a  day  traveling  over  rural  roads? 

Our  state  is  sometimes  referred  to  in 
jest  as  Taxachusetts.  Would  the  joke  be 
less  biting  if  we  were  known  as  Toxachu- 
setts?  Because  toxic  waste  management 
is  so  controversial  an  issue,  a  politically 
expedient  solution  is  at  least  as  likely  as 
a  well-conceived,  prudently  engineered 
one.  especially  in  an  election  year.  But  in 
our  eagerness  to  do  what  is  right  and  just, 
we  must  guard  against  taking  an  irrever- 
sible plunge  into  a  toxic  waste  water  stream 
without  a  sufficiently  buoyant  legislative 
lifejacket. 

Case  in  Point  is  a  forum  for  discussion; 
therefore  its  contents  do  not  necessarily  re- 
flect the  views  of  Worcester  Polytechnic  or 
the  staff  of  The  WPI  Journal.  Please  write. 


12        WPI  JOURNAL 


Midnight 
dumping  is  not 
the  heart  of 
the  problem. 
Dealing  with 
hazardous 
wastes  is 
tougher  than 
catching  the 
outlaws. 


United  States  industries  generate 
many  millions  of  tons  of  waste 
each  year — slag,  ash,  scrap  ore, 
solvents,  paper,  and  what  have  you.  Of 
this  total,  some  10  to  15  per  cent  is  haz- 
ardous— poisonous,  carcinogenic,  in- 
flammable, reactive,  or  corrosive.  In  1980, 
according  to  the  Environmental  Protec- 
tion Agency  (EPA),  hazardous  wastes 
came  to  at  least  57  million  wet  metric  tons. 
Most  commonly  the  materials  are 
dumped  or  buried.  Some  are  in  landfills 
approved  by  local  health  departments, 
some  in  "temporary  storage"  in  55-gallon 
drums,  and  some  dumped  by  the  wayside. 
Hazardous  wastes  are  not  necessarily 
exotic  substances.  They  are  often  an  in- 
tegral part  of  industries  producing  items 
that  we  use  every  day,  such  as  cellophane, 
chrome  coatings,  leather  goods,  news- 
papers, ice  cream  and  asphalt.  Such  prod- 
ucts— and  their  wastes — are  obviously  a 
permanent  part  of  modern  living.  What 
is  to  be  done  about  them? 

Ambiguity  is  the  operative  word. 
It  is  uncertain  how  much  haz- 
ardous waste  is  in  fact  gener- 
ated. That  57  million  metric  tons  is  a  brave 
guess,  but  only  a  guess.  Under  EPA  reg- 
ulations that  came  into  effect  in  Novem- 


HAZARDOUS 
WASTES 


By  James  C.  Wood 


ber  1980,  all  hazardous  wastes  must  be 
tracked  "cradle-to-grave"  by  a  system  of 
manifests,  which  is  supposed  to  ensure 
that  all  wastes  go  to  appropriate  sites. 
Manifests  work  much  like  shipping  re- 
ceipts, copies  of  which  wind  up  at  state 
agencies.  But  not  all  states  have  enforced 
uniform  reporting  procedures:  Maryland, 
for  example,  began  a  manifest  system  in 
1977,  while  New  York  State  did  not  re- 
quire manifests  until  January  1982  and 
Virginia  has  no  system  of  manifests. 

Even  in  states  with  such  systems,  man- 
ifests are  not  required  for  material  that 
stays  on-site,  often  in  a  "pit,  pond,  or 
lagoon"  near  the  factory.  If  the  pit  or  pond 
is  deeper  than  it  is  wide,  it  is  called  an 
injection  well.  Nobody  knows  how  much 
waste  is  in  pits,  ponds,  lagoons,  or  injec- 
tion wells,  or  what  it  is,  or  how  serious  a 
problem  it  will  create,  if  any.  Some  of  it 
has  been  there  for  years,  on  abandoned 
industrial  properties,  and  nobody  even 
knows  it's  there.  Old  dumpsites  can  look 
innocuous,  a  bit  of  bumpy  ground  over- 
grown with  grass. 

Also,  even  the  most  accurate  counts  on 
toxic  wastes  do  not  account  for  all  envi- 
ronmental toxins.  Such  things  as  Drano, 
gasoline,  motor  oil,  road  salt,  nitrates  from 
fertilizers,  and  trichloroethylene  (a  de- 
greaser  that  is  still  sometimes  used  to  un- 
clog  septic  tanks):  all  these  find  their  way 
into  groundwater  and  drinking  supplies, 
not  because  someone  is  directly  disposing 
of  them  but  via  normal  runoff,  leakage, 


f^'iM 


and  household  use.  Exposure  is  critical, 
for  toxic  chemicals  are  no  threat  to  biota 
or  human  populations  unless  there  is  op- 
portunity for  direct  contact. 

How  might  that  contact  occur?  Toxic 
chemicals  can  move  to  the  surface  if  a 
disposal  trench  is  flooded,  in  which  case 
exposure  could  occur  through  direct  phys- 
ical contact.  Some  hazardous  wastes  are 
volatile,  and  nearby  people  and  animals 
might  breathe  contaminated  air.  Or  the 
wind  can  stir  up  dust  and  fumes  from  a 
landfill.  These  airborne  particles  could 
settle  out  nearby  and  accumulate  in  the 
soil  and  food  chain.  If  the  disposal  site  is 
located  near  a  stream  or  pond,  an  acci- 
dent or  spill  could  contaminate  the  water — 
perhaps  a  source  of  water  supply.  Or  per- 
haps the  dumpsite  percolates  all  too  well, 
like  an  old  gravel  pit.  In  that  case,  con- 
tamination of  groundwater  would  be  the 
major  long-term  exposure  route.  The  po- 
tential health  damage  would  result  from 
drinking  contaminated  water. 

Exposure  then  requires  a  pathway  and 
a  population.  Given  these  two  conditions, 
the  effects  would  depend  on  the  concen- 
tration of  the  toxic  material  at  the  point 
of  exposure. 

Of  all  these  possibilities,  contam- 
inated groundwater  is  in  some 
ways  the  worst  possible  case,  be- 
cause it  is  so  intractable. 

Groundwater  is  one  part  of  the  earth's 
water  circulatory  system — the  hydrologic 
cycle — and  can  be  thought  of  crudely  as 
underground  conduits  and  reservoirs.  It 
occurs  in  the  void  spaces  between  sub- 
surface particles.  Groundwater  moves 
slowly  under  pressure  until  it  reemerges 
at  the  surface  in  springs  or  through  dis- 
charge to  rivers  and  streams.  From  place 
to  place,  both  pressure  and  the  under- 
ground materials  vary  widely.  Clay,  for 
instance,  consists  of  extremely  small  par- 
ticles which  leave  very  little  room  for  water; 
clay  is  virtually  impermeable.  In  gravel, 
on  the  other  hand,  groundwater  moves 
extremely  fast.  In  rock  it  moves  at  speeds 
varying  with  the  type  and  geologic  struc- 
ture of  the  rock,  varying  again  with  pres- 
sure. 

An  aquifer  is  any  subsurface  formation 
that  yields  significant  amounts  of  water  to 
wells  and  springs.  Aquifers  are  not  self- 
contained,  like  tanks  of  water  held  un- 
derground; rather,  groundwater  moves  in 
and  out  of  aquifers,  and  between  aquifers, 
by  complex  routes. 

Approximately  50  per  cent  of  all  U.S. 
residents  rely  on  aquifers  as  their  primary 
source  of  drinking  water — more  so,  nat- 


Aerial  view  of  a  licensed  landfill:  At  Maryland's  Solley  Road  dump,  waste  haulers 
hand  over  manifests  before  dumping  their  hazardous  cargo  in  the  site's  active  portion 
(upper  left).  Trees  buffer  the  dump  from  nearby  neighborhoods.  Note  the  clay  cap 
on  the  older  landfill  (lower  right).  Rising  40  feet,  it  keeps  moisture  from  entering  the 
landfill.  Nothing  will  grow  on  the  cap  until  a  layer  of  topsoil  is  added. 


urally,  in  rural  areas  where  wells  are  still 
used.  But  many  urban  communities  also 
depend  on  aquifers.  Some  regions  of  the 
country  have  no  alternative  water  source. 
Long  Island's  2.5  million  residents  get  all 
their  water  from  three  aquifers. 

Once  contaminants  enter  an  aquifer  they 
may  remain  for  long  periods  of  time — 
decades  to  geologic  time.  Conditions  vary, 
but  groundwater  may  move  from  one  to 
100  feet  a  year,  carrying  the  contamina- 
tion with  it. 

Treatment  methods,  still  crude,  consist 
of  pumping  out  and  filtering  the  contam- 
inated water,  or  simply  of  pumping  until 
the  measured  concentration  of  contami- 
nants reaches  lower  levels.  For  example, 
when  two  water  supply  wells  in  Pennsyl- 


vania showed  contamination  from  chro- 
mium (VI)  in  concentrations  at  .35  mil- 
ligrams per  liter,  it  was  necessary  to  pump 
half  a  million  gallons  each  day  for  two  and 
a  half  years.  That  brought  contaminant 
levels  below  .02  milligrams  per  liter. 

In  a  more  expensive  form  of  cleanup, 
however,  a  waste  treatment  facility  must 
be  constructed  at  the  site.  The  pumped- 
up  liquid  is  filtered  through  activated  car- 
bon, which  removes  organic  contami- 
nants. Such  an  effort  is  extremely  expen- 
sive and  is  normally  avoided  by  closing 
the  wells.  In  such  a  case  the  pollutant  plume 
will  remain  in  the  aquifer,  movin^g  invis- 
ibly underground.  It  may  possibly  con- 
taminate other,  deeper  aquifers  or  may 
discharge  into  streams  and  rivers. 


II  ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


Although  the  best  solution  is  dif- 
ficult to  identify,  it  is  possible  to 
^characterize  the  alternatives, 
which  are  not  simple.  For  example,  the 
Allied  Chemical  Company  in  Baltimore 
generates  over  100,000  tons  a  year  of 
chrome  ore  sludge,  classified  as  a  hazard- 
ous substance  because  it  contains  1.3  per 
cent  by  weight  of  chromium  (VI) — chro- 
mium in  its  positive  six-valence  state,  which 
seems  to  be  associated  with  cancer  and 
renal  damage. 

The  chrome  ore  sludge  is  the  residue 
from  extraction  of  elemental  chromium 
from  chromite.  The  dry  sludge  is  a  black, 
granular  material  with  the  consistency  of 
sand.  It  is  non-burnable,  so  incineration 
is  not  possible.  Additional  processing  to 
extract  the  chromium  (VI)  residue  offers 
httle  promise,  which  is  the  very  reason 
Allied  considers  the  sludge  a  waste  and  is 
willing  to  pay  for  disposal.  Is  there  a  pro- 
cess that  will  solidify,  stabilize,  and  en- 
capsulate the  solid  material  so  that  the 
hexavalent  chromium  won't  leach  out? 
There  are  claims  of  such  techniques. 

However,  at  a  Maryland  Environmen- 
tal Service  Laboratory,  lab  workers  have 
tested  samples  that  were  "encapsulated" 
and  "stabilized"  by  various  methods,  and 
they  have  been  unable  to  confirm  that  any 
technique  really  works.  The  samples  rest 
in  rows  of  glass  containers  that  had  been 
filled  with  distilled  water;  the  water  has 
now  turned  yellow,  showing  the  presence 
of  chromium  (VI)  ion  in  solutiorj. 

Another  alternative  is  to  produce  less 
waste.  Allied  Chemical  is  now  changing 
its  production  process  to  a  form  that  should 
reduce  the  annual  waste  by  over  a  third. 
The  most  radical  alternative  is  to  eliminate 
or  restrict  the  use  of  chromium — the  less 
ore  is  processed,  the  less  waste.  But  con- 
sider the  consequences:  chromium  im- 
parts heat  and  corrosion  resistance  to 
stainless  steels,  plumbing,  hardware,  and 
metal  trim.  Could  we  do  without  it? 

This  example  illustrates  all  four  major 
alternatives  to  land  disposal:  resource  re- 
covery, incineration,  physical  or  chemical 
treatment,  and  source  reduction.  And  in 
this  example,  we  are  left  with  an  irreduc- 
ible minimum  of  material  that  must  be 
disposed  of  on  land.  Although  new  tech- 
nologies are  being  developed,  this  dis- 
concerting answer  generally  holds  true. 

Physical  or  chemical  treatment:  Stabi- 
lization is  a  treatment  often  advocated  for 
wastes  like  mixed  heavy  metal  sludges, 
which  contain  concentrations  of  zinc, 
chromium,  lead,  or  copper  sufficient  to 
make  them  hazardous  wastes.  (Especially 
hazardous  because  heavy  metals  accu- 


mulate in  body  tissues.)  The  sludges  are 
in  a  sense  already  solidified:  they  often 
result  from  treatment  of  liquid  waste,  re- 
quired under  clean  water  regulations. 
There  are  ways  to  "mine"  sludges  and 
extract  the  small  concentration  of  metals 
remaining,  but  for  sludges  with  multiple 
contaminants  such  processes  remain  at  the 
laboratory  stage.  Solidification  involves 
mixing  the  materials  with  cement  or  ash 
or  other  materials  to  make  them  more 
solid,  which  slows  down  the  leaching 
process  when  wastes  encounter  water. 
However,  the  effect  is  not  permanent.  It 
merely  delays  the  eventual  escape  of 
leachate.  Normally,  stabiHzation  makes 
the  material  both  heavier  and  more  bulky, 
and  it  must  still  be  disposed  of  on  land. 

Chemical  detoxification  treatments  for 
wastes  include  oxidation,  precipitation, 
and  acid  neutralization.  For  example, 
through  an  oxidation  reaction,  adding 
bleach  to  liquid  cyanide  solution  yields 
nitrogen,  carbon  dioxide,  and  a  sodium 
chloride  salt — all  harmless.  Heavy  metals 
can  be  precipitated  out  of  cleaning  waters. 
Acids  can  sometimes  be  neutralized  (al- 
though the  result  may  still  be  toxic).  These 
techniques  are  already  widely  used  in  in- 
dustry; major  companies  normally  treat 
vast  quantities  of  chemical  waste  on  site, 
so  that  it  never  enters  calculations  on  toxic 
waste. 

Resource  recovery:  In  some  cases,  wastes 
generated  by  one  firm  might  be  useful  to 
another  in  Heu  of  virgin  chemicals.  As 
Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute  engineer 
William  Shuster  cautions,  however,  "Only 
specific  waste  streams  are  candidates  for 
resource  recovery."  Among  these  are  spent 
acids,  solvents,  and  dilute  solutions  of 
heavy  metals. 

Sometimes  material  can  be  directly  re- 
covered. For  example  solvents  become 
wastes  only  because  they  have  been  con- 
taminated; if  the  contaminant  can  be  re- 
moved, the  solvent  is  ready  for  use  again. 
Nitric  acid  wastes,  a  by-product  of  etching 
silicon  wafers  in  the  electronics  industry, 
can  be  neutralized  and  detoxified  with  lime 
to  produce  calcium  nitrate,  a  high-grade 
Hquid  fertilizer. 

Resource  recovery  is  not  always  more 
costly  than  landfilling,  nor  does  it  require 
new  techniques.  But  most  industry  ob- 
servers believe  that  the  best  of  such  op- 
portunities have  already  been  realized,  at 
least  within  particular  industries.  Be- 
tween industrial  groups,  the  problem  is 
that  Firm  A  rarely  knows  what  uses  its 
waste  could  have  for  Firm  B.  An  exper- 
imental waste  exchange  clearinghouse  in 
the  San  Francisco  Bay  area  has  been  suc- 


cessful, however,  and  New  York  State's 
plan  for  centraHzed  treatment  and  recov- 
ery should  increase  such  opportunities. 

Incineration:  The  alternative  that  raises 
the  most  passion  is  high-temperature  in- 
cineration, burning  at  600-800°C.  It  is 
commonly  thought  that  perhaps  all  wastes 
should  be  burned.  Why  not  just  get  rid  of 
them?  Why  leave  them  around  in  a  land- 
fill for  future  generations  to  worry  about? 
High  temperature  incineration  breaks  apart 
toxic  organic  hydrocarbons  into  harmless 
substances.  Incineration  reduces  the 
amount  of  wastes  we  have  to  dispose  of. 
This  seems  to  be  the  way  to  go,  people 
often  think. 

A  closer  look  indicates  some  problems. 
For  one,  not  everything  burns.  Solvents 
burn  well.  But  waste  oils,  which  would 
appear  to  be  good  candidates,  pose  a 
problem:  one  reason  they  are  hazardous 
substances  is  that  they  are  contaminated 
with  trace  metals — and  metals,  of  course, 
do  not  bu/n. 

Incineration  can  be  extremely  expen- 
sive: the  EPA  estimates  that  the  process 
can  cost  from  $75  to  $2,000  a  ton.  Why 
the  variation?  Costs  vary  with  fuel  costs 
and  air  pollution  control  costs.  Burning 
material  with  low  energy  content  means 
much  higher  fuel  consumption.  And  some 
materials  require  a  more  elaborate 
"scrubber"  system  to  ensure  that  no  toxic 
gases  escape.  (Scrubbing  itself  generates 
a  sludge,  which  is  a  hazardous  waste  that 
will  require  land  disposal.)  Perhaps  most 
important,  the  method  is  not  foolproof. 
If  incineration  is  incomplete,  toxic  gas  can 
escape. 

At  our  present  state  of  technology,  there 
is  no  single  recovery  method  that  works 
for  an  entire  class  of  wastes,  far  less  for 
all  wastes.  Alternative  methods  can  re- 
duce the  burden  on  landfill,  but  for  the 
foreseeable  future  they  cannot  eliminate 
it.  Landfill,  then,  becomes  a  topic  of  some 
urgency. 

In  1972  a  municipal  landfill,  licensed 
to  receive  septic  tank  wastes  and  sew- 
age sludge,  opened  in  Jackson  Town- 
ship, New  Jersey.  By  1976  residents  of  the 
surrounding  community  (four  square  miles) 
complained  of  foul-smelling  and  bad-tast- 
ing water.  Some  people  got  rashes  after 
they  showered. 

Most  homes  drew  water  from  shallow 
wells,  30  to  50  feet  deep.  After  testing  by 
the  New  Jersey  Department  of  Public 
Health  found  heavy  metals  and  organic 
hydrocarbons  at  levels  that  violated  state 
drinking  water  criteria,  the  state  ordered 
the  community  to  close  its  wells. 


APRIL  1982    III 


A  hydrogeologic  analysis  shows  that  the 
Jackson  dumpsite  rests  on  sandy,  highly 
permeable  soil.  Moisture  in  the  form  of 
runoff  or  precipitation  can  enter  the  site 
and  move  through  the  toxic  chemicals, 
dissolving  and  carrying  off  hazardous  res- 
idues. The  contaminated  liquid,  also  called 
leachate.  then  moved  easily  through  the 
porous  soil  into  the  shallow  aquifer  that 
gave  the  community  its  drinking  water. 
At  Jackson  Township,  no  cleanup  is  under 
way.  The  community  now  gets  water  from 
a  well  into  a  deeper  aquifer,  while  the 
contaminant  plume  remains,  moving  sldwly 
through  the  groundwater. 

Contamination  of  groundwater  is  not 
the  only  risk  from  improper  hazardous 
waste  disposal.  At  Love  Canal  contami- 
nated fluids  moved  to  the  surface,  then 
sidled  into  the  basements  of  homes  bor- 
dering the  site.  Soil  condition  reports  from 
the  site  show  that  the  top  1.2  to  1 .8  meters 
of  soil  consist  of  relatively  permeable  silt 
and  sand,  the  next  9  to  12  meters  of  rel- 
atively impermeable  clay.  Migration  oc- 
curred through  the  soil's  top  layer.  People 
living  nearby  were  exposed  either  through 
physical  contact  with  surface  chemicals, 
or  when  volatile  organics  were  present  in 
the  basement  air  of  affected  homes. 

Love  Canal  is  perhaps  the  most  cele- 
brated case  of  improper  handling  of 
chemical  wastes.  In  1953,  one  year  after 
Hooker  Chemical  Company  ceased 
dumping  chemical  wastes  into  the  aban- 
doned canal,  construction  began  on  an 
elementary  school  at  the  site's  border. 
(Hooker  argued  against  the  plan,  and  sold 
the  land  to  the  school  board  for  one  dollar 
only  after  it  became  clear  that  otherwise 
the  site  would  be  condemned  and  ac- 
quired anyway.)  During  construction,  the 
dumpsite's  clay  cap,  important  in  con- 
taining the  wastes,  was  disturbed.  Soon  a 
suburban  community  surrounded  the  old 
canal. 

All  seemed  well  for  more  than  20  years, 
but  in  1977,  after  a  series  of  heavy  rains, 
residents  began  to  complain  of  strange  and 
pungent  smells  in  their  basements,  and  of 
a  high  rate  of  cancer,  birth  defects,  and 
general  malaise.  The  New  York  State  De- 
partment of  Health  investigated  and  de- 
clared the  site  an  "environmental  disas- 
ter." Residents  were  evacuated. 

Spurred  by  the  atmosphere  of  emer- 
gency, a  number  of  groups  began  studies 
to  document  health  damage,  but  in  the 
flurry  the  truth  seems  to  have  fallen  be- 
tween the  cracks.  An  EPA-sponsored 
study,  for  example,  claimed  to  show  ge- 
netic damage  but  sparked  immediate  con- 


troversy. Not  all  cytogeneticists  agreed  that 
the  data  proved  chromosome  breaks.  And 
even  if  the  original  interpretation  was 
correct,  it  was  not  clear  that  there  were 
more  breaks  than  "normal";  there  was  no 
control  group;  measles  can  cause  chro- 
mosomal breaks,  too.  These  objections 
proved  well-founded. 

There  were  other  epidemiological  stud- 
ies, testing  for  excess  risks  of  cancer.  To 
date,  even  well-controlled  studies  have 


Edward  Beutner,  a  Franklin  and  Mar- 
shall College  geologist,  belongs  to  a  citi- 
zens' committee  in  Pennsylvania  formed 
to  keep  an  eye  on  a  firm 's  plans  for  a 
hazardous  wastes  landfill. 


been  unable  to  prove  that  exposure  to 
chemicals  at  the  dumpsite  has  definitely 
damaged  the  health  of  any  former  resi- 
dents. Meanwhile,  many  of  the  former 
residents  of  Love  Canal  have  become  so 
demoralized  and  disgusted  that  they  will 
no  longer  participate  in  medical  studies. 
So  monitoring  for  long-term  effects — such 
as  cancer — will  be  difficult  if  not  impos- 
sible. Residents  still  do  not  know  what 
health  effects  they  may  face  in  the  future, 
and  the  studies  did  not  diminish 
public  concern,  but  rather 
increased  it. 


In  1980  the  Tennessee  Department  of 
Public  Health  approached  environ- 
mental scientists  at  the  Johns  Hop- 
kins School  of  Hygiene  and  Public  Health 
with  an  urgent  request:  Residents  of  a 
Memphis  neighborhood  feared  the  health 
effects  of  living  near  an  abandoned  chem- 
ical landfill,  the  North  Hollywood  dump — 
one  contaminated  with  pesticides.  Could 
Hopkins  design  a  valid  study  to  determine 
the  actual  health  risks?  The  Hopkins  group, 
aware  of  deficiencies  in  the  Love  Canal 
health  studies,  wanted  to  draft  an  ap- 
proach that  recognized  the  immediate 
concerns  of  the  community,  while  also  es- 
tablishing groundwork  for  identifying  long- 
term  health  effects. 

The  Velsicol  Chemical  Company  had 
used  a  parcel  of  land  in  North  Hollywood 
to  dispose  of  pesticide  manufacturing  res- 
idues. People  in  the  neighborhood,  a  black 
working-class  community,  had  lived  by  the 
dumpsite  for  years,  unaware  of  potential 
health  risks.  Yet  EPA  environmental 
sampling  at  the  site  has  located  more  than 
20  priority  pollutants,  principally  chlori- 
nated hydrocarbons  and  heavy  metals,  at 
concentrations  of  more  than  10  parts  per 
million.  Identified  chemicals  include 
chlordane,  heptachlor,  and  endrin.  All 
have  recognized  toxic  effects. 

These  toxic  substances  were  found  in 
surface  soil  samples,  in  water  from  the 
Wolf  River  which  flows  along  one  edge 
of  the  site,  and  in  several  ponds  on  the 
dumpsite  property.  However,  EPA  sam- 
pling did  not  provide  enough  detail  to  tell 
the  team  exactly  how  the  substances  mi- 
grated from  the  site.  Who  was  exposed? 
Did  sampling  detect  all  potentially  harm- 
ful substances?  What  was  the  most  likely 
exposure  route? 

Identifying  health  effects  can  be  diffi- 
cult, even  if  you  know  for  sure  what's  in 
the  site.  There  were  no  records  kept  at 
North  Hollywood  dump,  so  the  team  didn't 


know  everything  buried  there.  Even  if  the 
site  could  be  meticulously  mapped,  pro- 
ject head  Morton  Corn  says,  "There  is 
still  the  question  of  exposure.  Once  you 
know  what's  on  the  lot,  you  need  to  know 
what's  getting  off.  That  requires  an  inti- 
mate knowledge  of  the  possible  pathways 
of  every  chemical  dumped." 

Yet  complete  knowledge  of  the  way 
chemicals  moved  off  the  site  would  not 
eliminate  the  problem  of  detecting  ex- 
posed individuals.  For  instance,  chlori- 
nated hydrocarbons  such  as  chlordane  were 
found,  which  are  likely  to  cause  liver  dys- 
function if  ingested.  A  blood  test  for  cer- 
tain liver  enzymes  should  therefore  indi- 
cate exposure  to  the  dump.  "Anything 
you  measure,  though,  is  likely  to  show  up 
in  some  of  the  people,"  says  Allen  Kim- 
ball, a  Hopkins  biostatistician.  The  resi- 
dents could  have  been  exposed  to  chlor- 
dane someplace  else;  the  question  is 
whether  any  damage  that  shows  up  is  re- 
lated specifically  to  the  dump. 

And  what  about  people  who  have  moved 
away,  or  people  who  have  recently  moved 
into  the  area?  Should  they  be  included  in 
the  study,  and  if  so,  how?  It's  nearly  im- 
possible to  reconstruct  a  neighborhood  as 
it  has  existed  for  20  years  or  more,  but 
without  such  perspective,  it's  unlikely  that 
the  long-term  effects  of  chemicals  can  be 
spotted. 

And,  as  with  any  epidemiological  study, 
a  control  group  is  needed.  Memphis  is  a 
chemical  manufacturing  center,  and  aer- 
ial photos  have  revealed  200  to  300  in- 
dustrial disposal  sites,  some  40  to  60  of 
which  may  contain  toxic  chemicals.  So  the 
chances  of  finding  an  unexposed  popu- 
lation are  slim.  But  without  such  a  control 
group,  statisticians  cannot  satisfy  them- 
selves that  there  are  more  miscarriages, 
or  bad  livers,  or  cancers,  or  birth  defects 
among  people  who  live  near  the  North 
Hollywood  dump  than  are  "normal"  for 
Memphis  residents  of  comparable  age, 
class,  and  racial  mix. 

Whatever  the  city  of  Memphis  decides 
to  do,  the  Hopkins  effort  has  highlighted 
the  difficulties  of  dealing  with  toxic  chem- 
icals. The  group  has  designed  a  study  with 
a  well-defined  goal,  to  see  if  people  living 
within  a  certain  distance  of  the  North  Hol- 
lywood dump  show  specific  signs  of  ex- 
posure to  chemicals:  elevated  tissue  levels 
of  chlorinated  hydrocarbon  pesticides  and 

James  C.  Wood  is  a  doctoral  student  in 
the  Department  of  Geography  and  Envi- 
ronmental Engineering  at  the  Johns  Hop- 
kins G.W.C.  Whiting  School  of  Engi- 
neering. 


heavy  metals,  or  higher  frequencies  of 
certain  illnesses  linked  with  those  chem- 
icals. The  report  recommends  using  ques- 
tionnaires, physical  examinations,  and  lab 
tests;  and  the  study  would  cost  at  least  $3 
million.  Whether  or  not  it  will  be  carried 
out,  or  by  whom,  has  not  yet  been  decided 
by  authorities  in  Memphis.  Meanwhile, 
Velsicol  has  come  in  and  covered  the  site 
with  a  few  inches  of  dirt,  which  has  helped 
alleviate  community  concern. 


Morton  Corn,  of  the  Johns  Hopkins 
School  of  Hygiene  and  Public  Health, 
directed  a  study  designed  to  assess  health 
risks  in  a  neighborhood  near  an  aban- 
doned pesticide  dump  in  Memphis. 


Future  safe  management  of  toxic 
wastes  depends  upon  well-selected, 
well-designed,  and  well-built  land- 
fill sites — and  on  effective  monitoring  of 
engineered  containment  systems.  To  be- 
gin at  the  beginning,  planners  must  con- 
sider a  site's  geological  features,  features 
which  predict  whether  and  how  wastes  will 
move  from  a  landfill. 

The  permeability  of  underlying  soil  strata 
measures  the  earth's  capacity  to  transmit 
fluids;  low  perq:ieability,  like  that  found 
in  clay-rich  soils,  is  desirable.  Yet  the 
Jackson  Township  municipal  dumpsite, 
for  example,  rests  on  porous  sandy  soil 
that  does  little  to  halt  the  flow  of  leachate. 
A  site  also  should  have  little  potential 
for  surface  water  penetration.  The  North 
Hollywood  landfill  in  Memphis,  never- 
theless, lies  in  the  flood  plain  of  the  Wolf 
River.  Dumpsites  are  often  placed  on  such 


marginal  land — parcels  no  one  wanted. 

The  location  and  movement  of  ground- 
water are  other  considerations.  To  pro- 
tect aquifers,  groundwater  should  be  very 
low  beneath  the  site,  and  the  "travel  time" 
for  polluting  fluids  to  reach  an  aquifer 
should  be  very  long.  Predicting  travel  times 
depends  somewhat  on  the  nature  of  the 
wastes.  For  example,  heavy  metal  and  acid 
wastes  are  sometimes  buried  together.  The 
acids  can  lower  the  natural  pH  of  the  soil; 
unfortunately,  the  more  acid  the  soil,  the 
more  mobile  the  heavy  metal.  Certain  or- 
ganic substances,  such  as  trichloroeth- 
ylene  (a  solvent  and  a  carcinogen),  seem 
to  move  very  quickly  through  the  soil. 

An  ideal  site  is  hard  to  find.  Local  geo- 
logical conditions  can  vary  considerably 
over  short  distances — even  feet.  Within  a 
region  of  low  permeability  clay,  pockets 
and  fissures  of  sand  or  gravel  can  act  like 
an  escape  chute  for  leachate,  giving  it  an 
ideal  passage  to  deep  groundwater.  These 
cracks  or  lenses  are  not  unusual. 

Perhaps  a  more  fundamental  problem 
is  unavoidable  conflict  among  objects 
which  individually  appear  quite  reasona- 
ble. To  reduce  chances  of  exposing  resi- 
dents near  disposal  sites,  an  environmen- 
tal planner  would  favor  a  remote  location, 
one  unUkely  to  be  subject  to  development 
pressures.  (At  Love  Canal  developers  be- 
gan to  build  houses  adjacent  to  the  dis- 
posal trench  only  three  years  after  the 
dumping  had  stopped.)  Yet  residents  near 
remote  sites  are  also  more  likely  to  de- 
pend on  groundwater  as  a  sole  source  for 
drinking  water.  Locating  landfills  away 
from  urban  areas  means  that  trucks  car- 
rying the  waste  have  farther  to  travel,  in- 
creasing the  chances  of  spills  or  accidents. 

The  ideal  site  being  rare,  landfills  must 
be  engineered  to  overcome  local  imper- 
fections. The  engineer's  objective  is  "to- 
tal containment,"  with  two  essential  com- 
ponents: (1)  prevent  the  flow  of  moisture, 
whether  rainfall  or  surface  water  pene- 
tration, into  the  landfill  proper  and  (2) 
collect  and  treat  any  leachate  that  does 
develop  before  it  escapes. 

Such  a  secure  landfill  system  includes 
an  impermeable  cap  or  cover;  an  artificial 
lining  at  the  landfill's  base;  an  under- 
ground drainage  system  that  collects 
leachate;  and  a  pumping  and  storage  sys- 
tem for  collecting  and  evaluating  leach- 
ate. It  works  something  like  a  covered 
bathtub.  Within  the  basin,  the  leachate 
collection  system  drains  off  any  contam- 
inated water  and  keeps  it  from  moving  off 
site.  Leachate  collects  in  holding  tanks, 
and  is  analyzed  and  treated. 

What  can  go  wrong?  In  effect,  the  con- 


APRIL  1982      V 


tainment  can  work  all  too  well.  The  land- 
fill cover,  though  in  theory  impermeable, 
will  allow  moisture  to  enter  the  "tub." 
(Over  time  environmental  stresses  such  as 
plant  growth  and  freeze-thaw  cycles  will 
open  more  cracks  in  the  cover.)  If  the 
drain  clogs,  excess  moisture  can  fill  the 
trench  and  move  upward,  much  hke  water 
overflowing  a  bathtub.  The  phenomenon 
is  so  common  that  environmental  engi- 
neers have  a  name  for  it — the  "bathtub 
effect."  That  is  what  happened  at  Love 
Canal.  The  native  clay  soil  at  the  base  of 
the  trench  kept  leachate  from  moving  into 
deep  groundwater — but  at  some  cost. 
When  water  got  into  the  trench,  wastes 
had  no  place  to  go  but  up  toward  the  sur- 
face. 

Evidence  from  the  past  is  not  reassur- 
ing. Once  wastes  are  buried  and  out  of 
sight  it  is  too  easy  to  forget  that  they  are 
around.  Yet  land  disposal  does  not  end 
when  the  landfill  is  capped.  The  site  must 
be  monitored,  to  make  sure  no  waste 
moves  off  site.  Someone  must  ensure  that 
the  drainage  and  treatment  systems  in  the 
ground  continue  to  work.  Who  will  pay? 

Proposed  federal  regulations  require 
landfill  operators  to  purchase  insurance 
sufficient  to  maintain  leachate  collection 
plumbing  and  monitor  wells  for  30  years 
after  closure.  But  EPA  acknowledges  that 
hazardous  waste  landfills  will  need  "per- 
petual" monitoring.  Perpetuity  is  a  long 
time.  The  technology  for  containing  wastes 
in  a  secure  landfill  may  not  be  an  insur- 
mountable problem.  However,  the  long- 
term  institutional  commitment  from  state, 
local,  and  federal  governments  may  be 
more  difficult  to  secure. 

Industries  continue  to  produce  haz- 
ardous wastes,  and  the  nation  is  ex- 
hausting the  present  land  disposal  fa- 
cilities. Where  will  the  necessary  new 
facilities  go?  What  communities  will  ac- 
cept such  feared  and  unwanted  neigh- 
bors? "No  one  wants  toxic  wastes  dumped 
in  his  backyard,"  says  Franklin  and  Mar- 
shall College  professor  Marvin  Kauff- 
man. 

Conflicts  are  emerging  that  reflect  the 
national  problem  of  adjusting  to  the  les- 
son of  Love  Canal.  The  public  interest 
inevitably  conflicts  with  local  fears. 
Browning-Ferris  Industries  (BFI),  for  in- 
stance, operates  a  hazardous  waste  land- 
fill on  a  53-acre  site  in  Anne  Arundel 
County.  Maryland.  In  November  1981, 
the  company  announced  its  plan  to  buy 
an  adjoining  2(X)-acre  lot  for  expansion. 
Two  community  meetings  organized  to 
protest  this  proposal  attracted  more  than 


600  residents  of  the  surrounding  com- 
munities of  Cadillac,  Point  Pleasant.  Mar- 
ley,  Suburbia,  Country  Club,  and  Twin 
Coves. 

The  dumpsite,  known  in  the  area  as  the 
Solley  Road  landfill,  has  been  open  since 
1963.  In  1977  the  State  Department  of 
Natural  Resources  gave  its  owners  per- 
mission to  receive  designated  hazardous 
substances.  Business  boomed.  Only  a  few 
miles  from  the  Baltimore  beltway  and 
within  easy  access  of  industries  concen- 
trated around  Baltimore  harbor,  the  land- 
fill accepted  173,800  metric  tons  of  haz- 
ardous wastes  in  1980. 

The  Solley  Road  landfill  is  not  part  of 
the  underground  network  of  midnight 
dumping,  but  an  example  of  the  kind  of 
faciHty  Congress  had  in  mind  when  it 


not  happy  to  have  the  dumpsite  for  a 
neighbor.  They're  concerned  about  truck 
traffic  to  and  from  the  facility,  about  dust 
and  fumes  from  the  site,  and  about  the 
presence  of  a  large  concentration  of  toxic 
chemicals  within  several  miles  of  their 
homes.  Nor  do  residents  like  the  fact  that 
Solley  Road  accepts  wastes  from  out-of- 
state.  Why  should  their  community  be  re- 
sponsible for  someone  else's  mess? 

People  in  Smithfield  Valley,  Pennsyl- 
vania face  similar  concerns  and  are  pi- 
oneering a  new  approach.  When  lU  Con- 
version Systems,  Inc.  announced  its  plan 
to  use  property  there  for  a  dumping 
ground,  Valley  residents  protested  with 
billboards,  placards,  and  televised  town 
meetings.  The  uproar  goaded  lU  to  set 
up  an  unusual  committee — a  board  made 


In  this  makeshift  incinerator,  exhau.^i  ,;,<,i,uA 
escape,  so  waste  disposal  becomes  air 
pollution.  RPI's  William  Shuster  advises 
New  York  State  on  a  master  plan  that 
includes  incineration— saiQ  incineration. 


passed  the  Resource  Conservation  and 
Recovery  Act  (RCRA)  of  1976:  it  is  a 
secure  landfill  operating  under  the  super- 
vision of  the  state  health  department. 
Browning-Ferris  Industries  screens  its 
clients.  The  landfill  accepts  only  solids  and 
sludges,  and  BFI  requires  potential  cus- 
tomers to  send  samples  of  their  wastes  to 
the  company's  Houston  laboratory  for 
chemical  analysis  before  they  agree  on  a 
disposal  contract.  The  landfill  is  well-con- 
structed and  well-monitored. 

Nevertheless,  community  residents  are 


VI    ALUMNI  MACJAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


up  of  nominees  from  local  organizations 
(among  them  Franklin  and  Marshall  Col- 
lege)— to  look  over  the  company's  shoul- 
der as  it  went  about  evaluating  sites. 

F&M  structural  geologist  Edward 
Beutner  is  on  the  committee  which,  he 
says,  will  take  part  in  the  site  selection 
process  from  start  to  finish.  The  commit- 
tee will  evaluate  geological  reports  and 
will  make  suggestions  to  lU.  "We  can  make 
strong  recommendations,"  he  says,  "which 
won't  be  binding,  but  lU  would  probably 
have  a  difficult  time  pushing  the  thing 
through  if  the  committee  didn't  approve. 
The  public  outcry  would  be  large  enough, 
I  think,  to  stop  the  dump." 

lU  Conversion  Systems  doesn't  pro- 
duce toxic  chemicals,  but  is  one  of  the 
handful  of  recently-formed  companies 
turning  wastes  into  profits.  Beutner  ex- 
plains that  waste  producers  send  samples 
to  lU,  which  determines  whether  it  can 
stabilize  or  otherwise  treat  the  waste.  Ma- 
terial will  be  spread  in  on-site  landfill, 
which  will  be  engineered  for  total  con- 
tainment. 

Beutner  and  fellow  F&M  geologist 
Marvin  Kauffman  agree  that  lU's  Narvon 
property — the  preferred  dumpsite — has  a 
complex  geology.  The  land  within  Penn- 
sylvania's border,  like  much  of  the  East- 
ern seaboard,  is  ribboned  with  layered 
sedimentary  and  metamorphic  rocks,  lay- 
ers which  have  been  folded,  uptilted,  and 
eroded.  Kauff man's  map  of  the  area, 
patched  from  various  sources  (including 
maps  produced  by  the  U.S.  Geological 
Survey  and  some  done  by  F&M  students), 
indicates  that  the  proposed  site  does  haVe 
faults  running  near  it. 

Kauffman  says  that  "it's  a  touchy  issue. 
Anyone  living  in  the  area  would  be  con- 
cerned. The  drinking  water  has  been  very 
pure,  but  now  there's  a  fear  of  its  being 
tainted.  The  person  with  property  is  biased 
because  he  thinks  there's  a  danger  that 
the  property  values  around  a  dump  might 
go  down;  the  state  of  Pennsylvania  is  con- 
cerned about  finding  sites  because  other- 
wise industry  will  move  elsewhere." 

RCRA  limits  federal  presence  in  waste 
disposal  to  designating  hazardous  sub- 
stances, defining  requirements  for  cradle- 
to-grave  tracking,  and  establishing  per- 
formance standards  for  landfill  sites. 
RCRA  relies  on  the  private  sector  to  de- 
velop and  expand  existing  treatment  and 
disposal  facilities  (under  EPA  standards). 
The  theory  is  that  mandatory  guidelines 
will  stimulate  private  development:  If  im- 
proper waste  disposal  is  illegal,  and  is 
penalized,  waste  generators  will  have  to 
pay  for  proper  disposal,  and  waste-service 


Corrosive  chemicals  eat  their  way  through  storage  drums.  Containing  hazardous 
wastes  is  not  a  one-step  job,  even  at  well-designed  landfills. 


firms  will  therefore  enter  the  disposal 
business.  EPA  regulations  based  on  RCRA 
leave  to  states  and  local  governments  the 
problem  of  finding  landfill  sites.  The  en- 
forcement arm  of  the  EPA  has  recently 
been  dismantled,  and  such  compHance  as 
the  law  requires  now  rests  with  the  good 
will  and  strong  arm  of  the  individual  states. 

In  an  ideal  world,  each  type  of  waste 
would  be  considered  alone  and  dis- 
posed of  individually,  in  the  most 
economical  manner  that  avoided  every 
important  adverse  effect.  Such  an  ideal 
solution  is  useful  as  a  point  of  reference, 
but  little  help  in  making  complex  assess- 
ments of  risk-benefit.  For  example,  if  only 
$1,000  is  available,  would  it  yield  greater 
benefits  to  destroy  a  ton  of  organic  pes- 
ticide wastes  through  careful  incinera- 
tion? Or  would  it  be  better  to  spend  the 
same  amount  to  encapsulate  ten  tons  of 
non-burnable  heavy-metal-contaminated 
sludges?  In  the  real  world,  a  state  planner 
might  have  50  different  wastes  originated 
in  30  different  sites.  Given  shipping  costs. 


where  should  the  central  facility  be?  What 
facilities  will  handle  the  largest  portion  of 
hazardous  wastes,  at  a  cost  low  enough 
that  manufacturers  will  not  be  driven  to 
midnight  dumping? 

Suppose  we  can  determine  that  incin- 
eration is  feasible  for  a  particular  waste. 
Is  there  enough  burnable  waste  in  a  state 
to  justify  investment  in  a  complex  incin- 
eration plant?  Where  should  it  go?  Wil- 
liam Shuster  of  RPI  has  described  the 
complication  of  this  type  of  evaluation, 
now  going  on  in  New  York  State.  "We 
have  a  number  of  questions  to  wrestle  with. 
Should  there  be  one  plant  or  many  plants? 
With  more  plants  the  hazards  of  accidents 
during  transport  would  be  lower.  On  the 
other  hand,  construction  and  operating 
costs  would  be  much  higher  for  a  multi- 
ple-plant network  than  for  a  single  cen- 
tralized facility.  With  a  number  of  plants 
scattered  through  the  state  we  would 
spread  the  hazards  from  accidents  and  spills 
to  more  regions." 

To  resolve  the  inevitable  conflicts  over 
the  choice  of  future  land  disposal  sites, 


APRIL  1982    Vll 


In  Stow, 
Massachusetts: 
tracking 
the  backyard 
polluter 

Groundwater  pollution  can  originate  in 
sources  other  than  landfill,  and  major  in- 
dustries are  not  the  only  culprits.  Small 
towns  and  rural  communities  all  over  the 
United  States  have  traced  polluted  well 
water  to  leaking  gasoline  storage  tanks, 
to  pesticide  containers  dumped  beside  a 
barn,  to  overloaded  septic  systems — all 
places  where  no  one  thought  to  look  until 
the  damage  was  done,  and  all  places  that 
escape  EPA  or  state  regulations. 

Malcolm  FitzPatrick,  Associate  Profes- 
sor of  Urban  and  Environmental  Planning 
at  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  in 
Worcester,  Massachusetts,  is  hazardous 
waste  coordinator  for  the  town  of  Stow, 
Massachusetts.  Residents  of  Stow.  pop. 
5,148,  get  their  water  from  wells,  their 
sewage  disposal  through  septic  systems. 
And  they're  worried  about  their  water. 

FitzPatrick  wants  to  identify  practices 
that  may  lead  to  underground  water  pol- 
lution before  the  problem  gets  serious.  He 
has,  for  example,  found  piles  of  road  salt, 
stored  by  the  road.  Water  inevitably  finds 
its  way  into  some  of  the  piles,  and  the  salt 
melts  and  makes  its  way  down  into  the 
aquifer.  It  is  not  toxic  in  itself,  but  its  slow 
accumulation  is  undesirable:  no  one  wants 
municipal  water  that  is  undrinkably  salty, 
or  that  corrodes  pipes  and  kills  lawns. 

Many  rural  areas,  like  Stow,  rely  on 
septic  systems  to  dispose  of  waste  from 


kitchens  and  bathrooms.  In  such  systems, 
water  carries  the  waste  into  underground 
tanks,  where  solid  particles  settle  out.  The 
effluent  then  moves  through  a  series  of 
perforated  pipes.  These  spread  the  leak- 
ing fluids  throughout  the  area,  to  be 
cleansed  by  the  natural  filtering  capacity 
of  the  soil.  This  filtering  capacity,  how- 
ever, can  be  overtaxed.  In  the  particular 
case  of  Stow,  there  is  a  cottage  industry 
of  assembling  small-scale  components  of 
electronic  devices.  These  businesses  use 
septic  systems  to  dispose  of  small  amounts 
of  hazardous  acids. 

In  addition,  both  homes  and  small  busi- 
nesses still  use  trichloroethylene  and  sim- 
ilar solvents  to  break  up  scum  and  prevent 
clogs  in  their  septic  system.  Trichloro- 
ethylene is  linked  with  liver  and  kidney 
disorders  and  is  a  suspected  carcinogen, 
and  its  chemical  cousins  do  not  seem  to 
be  much  better. 

So  far,  FitzPatrick  says,  Stow's  prob- 
lems are  not  serious.  But  he  is  watching 
the  situation.  He  has  begun  mapping  the 
local  aquifer  to  locate  recharge  zones, 
places  where  surface  water  enters  the 
ground  to  replenish  water  supplies.  This 
map  will  be  used,  he  hopes,  to  redraw 
local  zoning  so  as  to  restrict  construction 
in  certain  critical  zones,  or  to  require  waste 
treatment  and  containment  rather  than 
septic  systems. 


the  state  of  Maryland  has  created  a  Haz- 
ardous Waste  Facilities  Siting  Board.  The 
Board  has  the  power  to  issue  a  "certificate 
of  public  necessity"  overruling  local  zon- 
ing objections  to  disposal  sites. 

The  Board  may  soon  review  BFI's  ap- 
plication to  expand  the  Solley  Road  land- 
fill. From  a  geological  perspective  Solley 
Road  looks  like  a  good  site.  It  rests  on 
the  naturally  impermeable  native  Arun- 
del clay.  Groundwater  in  this  region  is 
very  deep  and  well  protected  by  overlying 
strata  which  provide  a  natural  confining 
bed.  It  would  be  difficult  for  significant 
quantities  of  leachate  to  migrate  from  the 
site  and  contaminate  the  aquifer. 

Local  residents  view  the  matter  differ- 
ently. They  feel  they  are  carrying  an  un- 
fair share  of  the  environmental  risks  cre- 
ated by  hazardous  wastes.  The  Facilities 
Siting  Board  must  consider  the  broader 
public  interest  of  the  state,  its  need  to 
provide  a  secure  waste  disposal  site  near 
major  waste  generators.  Availability  of 
state-monitored  landfill  is  certainly  criti- 
cal to  the  state's  plan  for  safe  disposal. 

Robert  H.  Roy,  Dean  Emeritus  of  En- 
gineering Sciences  at  Johns  Hopkins  and 
now  chairman  of  the  Maryland  siting 
board,  agrees  in  principle  with  the  resi- 
dents: "Landfilling  should  only  be  used 
as  a  last  resort."  But,  he  adds,  "we  don't 
have  any  alternative.  People  realize  we 
must  have  jails,  power  plants,  and  haz- 
ardous waste  landfills,  yet  no  one  wants 
these  in  a  nearby  neighborhood.  No  one 
really  understands  toxic  chemicals.  But 
the  pervasive  fear  on  this  subject  has  be- 
come a  national  paranoia.  We  have  to  act. 
Everyone  is  looking  for  a  no-risk  society. 
It  doesn't  exist." 

Most  states,  naturally,  are  reluctant  to 
drive  out  industry;  at  the  same  time  they 
are  under  pressure  from  residents  to  elim- 
inate pollution.  New  York  State,  attempt- 
ing a  compromise,  is  conducting  an  in- 
depth  study,  with  Shuster's  help,  on  the 
availability  of  technology  for  treating 
wastes  and  producing  energy  from  waste 
incineration.  According  to  Shuster,  the 
state  is  dedicated  to  the  idea  of  doing 
something  about  its  serious  pollution 
problem.  The  governor  is  behind  the 
project,  as  is  the  legislature.  Yet  "there's 
a  sensitivity  to  being  too  tough,"  says 
Shuster.  "The  state  doesn't  want  to  drive 
anyone  out.  The  legislature  is  leaning  in 
the  direction  of  tax  incentives  and  tech- 
nical help  for  small  companies."  Mary- 
land's Robert  Roy  echoes  the  warning: 
"If  we  don't  make  it  feasible  for  industries 
to  do  this  economically,  then  generators 
will  resort  to  illegal  methods." 


VIII    ALUMNI  MA(3AZINE  CONSORTIUM 


50    li^ 


^     Id  I     1" 


67 


92    193    (^ 


An  Illustrated 

Compendium  of 

Commonplace 

Objects 

Fancies  are  dispelled,  facts  revealed* 

The  surprising  histories  of  these 

everyday  objects  are  here  unveiled, 

except  the  boring  parts* 


66 


70 


0^ 


9< 


HI 


113 


119 


TisUi^lK/ 


J L 


1  Across 

The  first  U.S.  crossword  puz- 
zle was  prepared  by  Arthur 
Wynne  and  pubHshed  in  the 
Supplement  to  the  Sunday  New 
York  World  on  December  21, 
1913. 


Ball  Bearings 

"In  those  days  we  anxiously 
asked  ourselves  how  soon  the 
enemy  would  realize  that  he 
could  paralyze  the  production 
of  thousands  of  armaments 
plants  merely  by  destroying  five 
or  six  relatively  small  targets," 
wrote  Albert  Speer,  the  archi- 
tect who  became  Hitler's  Min- 
ister of  Armaments  and  War 
Production.  The  five  or  six  tar- 
gets were  factories  turning  out 


more  than  two  million  ball 
bearings  a  month. 

Several  times  during  1943, 
British  and  American  squad- 
rons did  hit  the  main  bearing 
works  in  Schweinfurt,  but  they 
dropped  most  of  their  bombs 
on  airplane  factories  and  dams. 
Had  Allied  forces  bombed 
bearing  plants  consistently, 
Speer  concluded,  Germany's 
cars,  trains,  tanks,  trucks,  and 
planes  would  have  ground  to  a 
halt.  At  war  or  in  peace,  in- 


dustrial countries  can  be  said, 
quite  literally,  to  run  on  bear- 
ings. 

The  bearing — any  device 
which  eases  friction  between 
surfaces  moving  in  relation  to 
each  other — has  been  around 
since  the  beginning  of  re- 
corded history.  Ancient  ox- 
carts, chariots,  waterwheels, 
screwjacks,  and  the  like  all  had 
bearings,  usually  wooden 
troughs  or  sleeves  in  which  the 


axle  sat,  but  friction  soon  broke 
the  axle  shafts  and  wore  down 
the  bearings.  Tallow  and  oil 
were  poured  over  these  early 
bearings,  but  to  little  avail:  in 
one  16th-century  waterworks 
in  Toledo,  Spain,  the  major  ex- 
penses recorded  were  tallow, 
for  lubrication,  and  charcoal, 
for  repairing  worn  parts  at  the 
forge. 

Efficient  bearings,  particu- 
larly ball  bearings,  weren't 
widely  used  until  the  19th  cen- 
tury, but  quite  a  few  ways  of 
cutting  down  friction  had  been 
devised  by  Leonardo  da  Vinci. 
Most  of  da  Vinci's  innovations 
stayed  in  his  notebooks,  only 
to  be  discovered  with  astonish- 
ment by  people  who  had  re- 
invented his  bearings  500  years 
later. 

For  axles  which  made  com- 


APRIL  1982    IX 


plete  revolutions,  Leonardo 
first  improved  on  traditional 
trough  bearings  by  adding  a  top 
bushing.  This  clamp  could  be 
tightened,  so  that  even  as  the 
trough  wore  down,  the  axle 
would  not  jump  around.  Then 
he  suggested  that  the  same  ar- 
rangement, an  adjustable 
"mother"  holding  the  axle  firm, 
would  offer  far  less  resistance 
if  it  were  not  made  of  wood. 
One  could  be  cast  from  mirror 
metal,  "three  parts  copper  and 
seven  parts  tin."  Two  centuries 
later,  Robert  Hooke  suggested 
the  same  clever  idea  to  the 
Royal  Society  of  London. 
Leonardo  was  the  first  to  de- 
sign ball  bearings  in  a  race  which 
kept  them  from  touching  but 
let  them  turn  freely.  He  also 
devised  a  way  to  mount  a  ver- 
tical axle  on  three  conical  bear- 
ings— a  method  reinvented  in 
the  1920s  for  use  in  blind-flying 
instruments. 

At  first  metal  bearings  had 
to  be  made  at  the  forge,  one 
by  one.  Not  until  1868,  after 
Bessemer  had  invented  a  way 
to  blow  air  through  molten  pig 
iron  to  make  high  grade  steel, 
was  a  method  for  mass-pro- 
ducing bearings  patented.  In 
1898,  when  bearings  were  first 
used  in  hubs  and  headsets,  there 
was  a  boom  in  bicycle  sales. 
The  bearing  industry  really  got 
rolling. 

Today  bearings  are  among 
the  most  accurately  machined 
objects  in  the  world.  In  a  pre- 
cision factory,  same-size  bear- 
ings may  differ  from  one  an- 
other by  as  little  as  five  one- 
thousandths  of  an  inch,  or  13 
thousandths  of  a  millimeter. 
Beanngs  can  perform  under 
high  speeds  (in  an  average  tur- 
bofan  jet  engine,  at  l().f)()0  spins 
per  mmute),  high  heats  (tem- 
perature about  600°F),  and 
heavy  loads  (say,  2,5fX)  pounds 
per  cubic  inch). 

Still,  there  are  some  cases 
where  the  old  ways  prove  best: 
on  many  propeller-driven  ships, 
shafts  rest  in  self-lubricating, 
water-repellent  sleeve  bear- 
ings made,  not  of  metal,  but 
rather  of  resinous  lignum  vitac 
wood. 


Hypodermics 

In  the  1660s  the  English  archi- 
tect Christopher  Wren,  best 
known  for  designing  St.  Paul's 
Cathedral,  convinced  Oxford 
chemist  Robert  Boyle  that  a 
pipe  could  be  inserted  into  an 
animal's  blood  vessels  so  that 
drugs  could  be  injected  di- 
rectly into  the  bloodstream.  The 
two  men  used  a  quill  attached 
to  a  syringe  to  inject  opium  into 
a  dog.  (It  lived.) 

Nearly  two  centuries  later  the 
hollow  hypodermic  needle 


came  into  general  use.  Some 
say  the  inventor  was  Francis 
Rynd  of  Ireland;  others  cite 
French  surgeon  Charles  Ga- 
briel Pravaz.  In  the  earliest 
models,  the  puncture  through 
the  patient's  skin  was  made  with 
a  lancet  or,  wrote  Rynd,  "with 
the  point  of  the  instrument  it- 
self, pressed  through  the  skin 
to  the  depth  required."  By  the 
mid- 1850s,  syringes  were  mar- 
keted with  graduated  scales,  for 
accurate  control  of  doses. 


Coffee 

"It  fortifies  the  members,  it 
cleans  the  skin,  and  dries  up 
the  humidities  that  are  under 
it,  and  gives  an  excellent  smell 
to  all  the  body."  So  wrote  a 
10th-century  physician  of  the 
bunchum  bean.  Healers  as- 
cribed to  it  improbable  povs'- 
ers;  goats  and  saints  figured  in 
legends  of  its  discovery;  relig- 
ious leaders  issued  it  to  follow- 
ers that  they  might  stay  awake 
during  nightly  devotions. 

Discovered  growing  wild  in 
Ethiopia  more  than  a  thousand 
years  ago,  coffee  was  first  grown 
commercially  in  Arabia's 
Yemen  district  during  the  15th 
and  16th  centuries.  The  Arabs 
kept  others  from  trading  in  cof- 
fee by  drying  or  boiling  the 
beans  before  export,  so  they 
would  not  germinate.  But  cof- 
fee berries  were  still  smuggled 
out,  often  by  pilgrims  to  Mecca, 
and  grown. 

Arabs  gathered  in  coffee- 
houses— "schools  for  the 
wise" — to  hear  news,  listen  to 


storytellers,  play  chess,  and 
dance.  Coffee  soon  became 
known  as  "the  wine  of  Araby" 
because  some  Muslims  re- 
garded it  as  a  substitute  for 
wine,  which  their  religion  for- 
bade. Because  coffee  was 
sometimes  considered  intoxi- 
cating, and  because  coffee- 
houses often  were  sites  of  re- 
ligious and  political  arguments, 
certain  16th-century  Muslim 
officials  banned  the  beverage. 
So  drinkers  gathered  in  back 
rooms  to  drink  a  bootleg  brew. 
Coffee  nearly  suffered  similar 
persecution  in  Europe;  certain 
priests  appealed  to  Pope  Clem- 
ent VIII  (1535-1605)  to  forbid 
it  to  Christians  as  the  drink  of 
infidels.  The  Pope  tried  it, 
liked  it,  and  baptized  it  "a  truly 
Christian  beverage." 

The  lift  one  gets  from  a  cup 
of  coffee  comes,  of  course,  from 
caffeine,  which  affects  the  cen- 
tral nervous  system.  Small 
doses — the  amount  in  one  or 
two  cups  of  coffee — stimulate 
cerebrocortical  areas  associ- 
ated with  conscious  mental 


Messages  Found  on  a 
Beer  Can — ^and  Other 
Object  Lessons 


Perhaps  it  is  a  measure  of  the 
human  condition  that  we  ac- 
cumulate objects — from  the 
simplest  tools  to  complex  and 
expensive  works  of  art.  These 
objects  are  cultural  artifacts, 
as  is  the  entire  man-made  en- 
vironment: the  shape  of  our 
cities  and  towns,  the  build- 
ings we  inhabit,  the  images 
that  bombard  us  from  the 
streetscape  or  the  cathode 
tube — all  are  richly  symbolic 
attempts  to  inform  or  bring 
order  to  society. 

Artifacts  are  non-verbal:  they  communicate  in  the  language 
of  semiotics,  the  meanings  that  signs  and  symbols  convey  to 
the  mind  of  the  viewer.  And  the  language  of  artifacts  changes 
over  time.  The  Latin  phrases  of  the  Great  Seal  of  the  United 
States,  for  example,  were  readily  understood  by  educated 


X    ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


processes;  ideas  become 
clearer;  thoughts  flow  more 
readily,  and  fatigue  decreases. 
"Caffeinism,"  associated  with 
ingesting  more  than  1 ,000  mg/ 
day  (about  ten  cups  of  coffee), 
causes  such  excessive  stimula- 
tion that  it  may  produce  symp- 
toms like  those  of  anxiety  neu- 
rosis, including  nervousness, 
irritability,  agitation,  head- 
ache, and  muscle  twitches. 

European  coffee  merchants 
tried  to  capitalize  on  the  invig- 
orating effect  of  coffee  by  pro- 
moting it  as  a  fad  health  bev- 
erage. One  advertisement  in 


1657 
claimed  it 
did  everything 
from  making 
the  heart  "lightsom" 
to  fighting  eye  sores. 
Medical  opinion  differed 
sharply  on  coffee's  virtues. 
"Syrop  of  soot  and  Essence  of 
old  shoes,"  sniffed  one  doctor. 
But  William  Harvey  appar- 
ently saw  it  as  a  panacea;  he 
bequeathed  the  Royal  (then 
London)  College  of  Physicians 
a  56-pound  bag  of  coffee  ber- 
ries that  they  might  assemble 
and  drink  to  his  memory. 

Most  English  physicians 
agreed,  however,  that  coffee 
"helpeth  digestion  and  procu- 
reth  Alacrity" — and  that  it  was 
a  cure  for  drunkenness,  then 
the  root  problem  in  the  ma- 
jority of  cases  treated.  Coffee 
not  only  cleared  the  head;  but 
it  also  gave  people  an  alter- 


native to  the  tavern,  until  then 
the  only  center  for  socializing. 
Coffeehouses  sprang  up  all  over 
Europe  and  rapidly  became 
centers  for  gossip,  gambhng, 
literary  and  political  talk,  and 
even  business  deals.  Lloyd's 
Royal  Exchange  and  Registry 
of  Shipping  grew  out  of  Ed- 
ward Lloyd's  modest  coffee- 
house. Napoleon  Bonaparte, 
then  a  young  artillery  officer, 
was  so  fond  of  coffee  that  the 
proprietor  of  the  Cafe  de  Pro- 
cope  once  made  him  leave  his 
hat  as  security  while  he  went 
out  seeking  funds  to  pay  his 
coffee  tab. 

Of  non-alcoholic  beverages, 
coffee  has  always  been  the  U.S. 
favorite.  It's  followed,  in  order 
of  popularity,  by  soft  drinks, 
milk,  juice,  and  tea.  People  buy 
a  particular  coffee  for  its  dis- 
tinctive taste.  Each  brand  has 
its  own  secret  formula  for 
blending  beans,  but  to  ensure 
that  its  trademark  taste  ap- 
pears in  every  batch,  each 
company  employs  coffee  tas- 
ters, or  cuppers.  Cuppers  pour 


hot  water  over  prepared 
grounds,  then  inhale  the  aroma 
of  the  foam.  They  quickly  take 
the  mixture  into  their  mouths, 
tasting  for  acidity,  body,  and 
the  brand's  special  flavor,  then 
spit  the  grounds  into  a  cuspi- 
dor. The  most  skilled  cuppers 
can  identify  the  country  and  al- 
titude a  bean  comes  from, 
blindfolded. 

Fifty-six  per  cent  of  the  U.S. 
population  drinks  coffee  reg- 
ularly, at  an  average  of  3.41 
cups  per  day.  Half  of  all  coffee 
consumed  in  the  U.S.  is  drunk 
at  breakfast,  one-third  be- 
tween meals,  and  the  rest  at 
lunch  and  dinner.  The  pre- 
ferred style  is  black  and  un- 
sweetened, brewed  as  opposed 
to  instant.  Half  of  all  coffee 
drinkers  use  an  electric  drip 
coffeemaker.  One  out  of  seven 
imbibes  the  decaffeinated  va- 
riety— compared  with  one  in 
25  in  1962.  In  1980,  U.S.  coffee 
drinkers  consumed  one-third 
of  the  world's  output,  mostly 
from  Brazil  and  Columbia — 
some  2,456,072,300  pounds. 


Americans  at  the  beginning  of  the  19th  century.  "Annuit 
Coeptis"  and  "Novus  Ordo  Seclorum"  informed  readers  that 
since  the  year  of  its  creation  Providence  has  been  watching 
over  the  nation  that  would  establish  a  new  political  order  for 
the  ages.  The  seal's  iconographic  language — a  seeing  eye,  the 
pyramid,  the  eagle  with  constellation  overhead — conveyed  this 
message  even  to  illiterate  Americans. 

Today,  of  course,  the  imagery  of  18th-century  republicanism 
is  as  foreign  as  Sanskrit.  Few  people  notice,  and  fewer  com- 
prehend the  meaning  of,  the  Great  Seal,  even  as  it  passes 
through  their  hands  daily  on  the  dollar  bill.  Yet  these  symbols, 
and  the  neoclassical  design  of  the  public  buildings  constructed 
in  the  nation's  capital,  reassured  Americans  of  the  revolution- 
ary generation  that  theirs  was  a  government  that  would  not 
tyrannize  liberty. 

Another  object,  the  Victorian  sideboard,  is  vastly  different 
in  function  but  also  celebrated  tradition  at  a  time  of  great 
change.  The  manifest  functions  of  the  sideboard  were  to  dis- 
play silver,  china,  and  glass,  and  to  hold  serving  dishes  and 
platters.  These  sideboards  dominated  the  dining  room,  not 
only  because  of  their  size  but  also  because  of  their  ornately 
carved  panels  of  fruits,  grains,  fish,  and  game.  The  most  ex- 
travagant examples  depict  the  hunt,  the  primitive  chase  of  wild 
animals  once  essential  to  the  provisioning  of  family  or  group. 
Some  Renaissance  revival  examples  of  the  1880s  even  incorpo- 
rate carvings  of  hunting  dogs  and  dying  stags.  Who,  one  is 
tempted  to  ask,  could  enjoy  a  meal  while  surrounded  by  the 
rehcs  of  barbarism? 

Although  this  iconographic  program  seems  alien  today,  most 


,J^i^^ 


such  sideboards  adorned  the  dining  rooms  of  middle  and  up- 
per class  families.  For  these  people,  the  new  differentiation  of 
places  of  work  and  residence  led  to  the  enshrinement  of  the 

home  as  a  domestic  Utopia, 
protecting  women  and  chil- 
dren, and  gave  the  dining 
room  special  significance: 
here  the  husband  and  father 
presided,  carving  the  meat 
and  acting  as  intermediary 
between  the  family's  closed 
world  and  that  of  outsiders 
entertained  at  the  table. 
Moreover,  the  sideboard's 
panels  celebrated  man's  tradi- 
"  tional  role  as  provider — at 

JjJ^^^^^iV  the  very  moment  when  the 

^^^HT^^^B^^;         husband  was  no  longer  bring- 
^^^^   ^^^Sb^       *"^  home  the  produce  of  the 
fields  or  the  prizes  of  the 
hunt  but  their  symbolic 
equivalent,  the  weekly  wage. 

Other  objects  attest  to 
what  Kenneth  Ames  has 
called  changing  "social  strate- 
gies." The  caUing  card  of  the 
19th  century,  for  example,  contained  only  a  name.  Anything 
more  would  have  been  superfluous:  everyone  knew  everyone 

Continued  on  next  page 


Sue  Ribbon 


APRIL  1982    XI 


Toilet  Paper 

Five  hundred  sheets  of  un- 
bleached, pearly,  manila  hemp 
paper  sold  for  50  cents  in  1857, 


when  Joseph  C.  Gayetty  of  New 
York  City  became  the  first  U.S. 
manufacturer  of  toilet  tissue. 
Gayetty's  "Medicated  Paper" 
was  "a  perfectly  pure  article  for 
the  toilet  and  for  the  preven- 
tion of  piles."  The  maker  stood 
behind  his  product:  every  sheet 
was  watermarked  with  Gayet- 
ty's name. 


Chairs 

You  are  not  a  king  or  a  god, 
and  you  may  not  even  be  a 
prominent  person.  Neverthe- 
less, chances  are  that  you  are 
reading  this  while  seated  in  a 
chair.  "In"  gives  an  idea  of  how 
the  chair  has  evolved.  Impor- 
tant people  were  enthroned 
"on"  the  earliest  versions. 

In  ancient  Egypt,  chairs — 
simple  rectangular  seats  that 
often  had  folding  X-shaped 
frames — were  used  by  the  rul- 
ing class  and  by  travehng  of- 
ficials. Greeks  and  Romans  re- 


clined on  cushioned  couches  at 
formal  gatherings,  but  also  used 
folding  chairs  and  stools — which 
again  came  in  handy  for  gen- 
erals and  traveling  officials. 
Medieval  faldstools  descended 
from  these. 

Chairs  as  we  know  them  were 
seldom  seen  in  medieval  Eu- 
ropean households.  People 
squatted  on  the  floor,  or  sat  on 
benches,  on  upturned  wicker 
baskets,  on  chests,  or  whatever 
else  was  near.  By  1600,  when 
ordinary  people  started  to  use 
chairs,  the  head  of  the  house- 
hold would  be  enthroned  upon 
the  family  chair,  essentially  a 
stool  with  an  upright  back. 

Through  the  17th  century, 
furniture  in  general  had  a 
moveable  quality:  the  French 
meubles  means  just  that, 
moveable.  Even  a  traveling 
nobleman  would  carry  his 
household  goods  with  him,  or 
do  without.  In  1649,  for  ex- 


ample, the  King  of  France's 
daughter  once  had  to  sleep  on 
straw:  her  bed  had  been  left 
behind. 

By  the  18th  century,  chairs 
were  being  designed  for  the  sit- 
ter's comfort.  Uprights  were  no 
longer  so  upright.  Slanted,  they 
invited  sedate  lounging.  Curves 
and  double  curves  gave  a  sin- 
uous grace  to  the  frames,  and 
cushions  were  no  longer  an  af- 
terthought, heaped  on  a  bench 
or  chest,  but  were  designed  with 
the  frame.  Fads  in  clothing 
changed  chair  design.  To  make 
room  for  hoop  skirts,  for  in- 
stance, chair  arms  receded.  It 
became  possible  to  loll. 

In  the  19th  century,  metal  coil 
springs  became  the  base  for 
upholstery  and  new  methods 
of  weaving  made  it  easier  to 
stuff  and  cover  cushions.  The 
chair  frame  disappeared  under 
mountains  of  bloated  uphol- 
stery. In  France,  the  chair 


else  in  a  particular  social  group.  By  contrast,  the  contempo- 
rary business  card  identifies  the  individual  by  occupation  and 
company  or  institution.  Thorstein  Veblen  anticipated  this  phe- 
nomenon a  century  ago  in  his  remarkable  book.  The  Theory 
of  the  Leisure  Class.  According  to  Veblen,  the  change  from 
intimate  communities  to  modern  mass  society  created  the  need 
for  vicarious  forms  of  identification.  Most  obviously,  we  stake 
our  claim  to  status  by  the  things  we  own.  But  in  a  more  subtle 
way,  as  every  casual  introduction  affirms,  we  define  ourselves 
not  by  what  kind  of  person  we  are.  but  by  our  job  and  our 
institutional  affiliation.  The  business  card,  one  of  the  most 
ubiquitous  manifestations  of  corporate  America,  has  become  a 
token  of  identity  within  the  impersonal  structure  of  modern 
society. 

The  most  commonplace  objects  carry  a  message,  even  as 
they  serve  their  mundane  functions.  A  can  of  Pabst  Blue  Rib- 
bon Beer,  which  is  made  of  rolled  and  stamped  aluminum,  is 
admirably  adapted  to  hold  its  contents  without  altering  the  fla- 
vor. And,  for  those  of  us  who  could  never  find  an  opener,  it 
has  a  convenient  top  that  pops.  But  the  design  of  the  can,  an 
inheritance  from  the  labels  on  glass  bottles,  reflects  the  history 
of  product  and  nation.  The  red,  white,  and  blue  design  ap- 
peals to  patriotism,  the  representation  of  barley  and  hops  in- 
forms the  buyer  of  the  beer's  ingredients,  and  the  blue  ribbon 
attests  to  quality.  The  script  at  the  bottom  boasts  that  Pabst 
was  selected  as  America's  finest  in  1893 — at  the  World's  Co- 
lumbian Exhibition,  held  in  Chicago  to  commemorate  the  four 
hundredth  anniversary  of  the  discovery  of  the  New  World;  the 
script  at  the  top  claims  that  the  brewery  was  established  in 
Milwaukee  in  1844.  when  many  Germans  were  fleeing  their 
native  land  because  of  political  instability.  Not  coincidentally. 
the  blue  ribbon  identifies  the  product's  merit  even  to  a  con- 
sumer who  cannot  read  English. 

The  historicism  of  this  beer  label  is  seldom  seriously  consid- 


ered, but  as  with  many  other  objects,  historicism  itself  is  the 
point.  The  images  and  objects  of  one  era  often  appeal  to  suc- 
ceeding generations  as  quaint  reminders  of  a  simpler  age,  per- 
haps a  golden  one.  Herein  lies  one  important  function  of  the 
cultural  artifact  in  the  contemporary  world.  We  use  history,  or 
at  least  chosen  aspects  of  history,  to  address  current  issues  or 
psychological  demands. 

The  1920s,  for  example,  are  usually  described  as  a  decade  of 
dramatic,  even  traumatic  change.  And  yet  the  '20s  witnessed 
the  creation  of  such  notable  monuments  to  the  American  past 
as  the  Henry  Ford  Museum,  John  D.  Rockefeller's  restoration 
and  reconstrucfion  of  Colonial  Williamsburg,  and  Henry  Fran- 
cis Du  Font's  collection  of  paintings  and  decorative  arts  at 
Winterthur.  Significantly,  these  men  were  all  associated  with 
technologies  that  transformed  American  society.  Nevertheless, 
as  if  recoiling  from  the  implications  of  their  acfions,  they 
looked  to  the  agrarian,  pre-industrial  past — to  their  own  back- 
grounds— as  the  source  of  national  greatness.  The  objects  they 
collected,  high  style  or  low,  beautiful  or  useful,  served  as  a 
tangible  contact  with  history  and  provided  a  sense  of  place  and 
time. 

Today  Americans  visit  museums  in  record  numbers  and  col- 
lect artifacts  of  every  type.  As  a  culture  we  seek  reassurance 
in  the  past,  answers  to  questions  of  identity  and  tradition. 
John  Ruskin,  the  19th-century  English  critic,  once  defined  ar- 
chitecture as  the  "lamp  of  memory,"  the  collective  heritage  of 
a  nation.  "We  may  live  without  her.  and  worship  without 
her,"  Ruskin  wrote,  "but  we  cannot  remember  without  her." 
Commonplace  objects  also  serve  this  purpose,  establishing 
continuity  with  the  past  at  times  of  great  change. 

David  Schuyler 

Assistant  Professor,  American  Studies  Program, 

Franklin  and  Marshall  College 


XII     ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


Photography 
by 

William 
Denison 


known  as  the  confortable 
evolved. 

In  the  United  States,  chang- 
ing technology  had  another 
effect,  as  the  age  of  patent  fur- 
niture dawned.  Every  reason- 
able mechanical  variation  had 
already  been  explored  by  the 
Age  of  Reason:  chairs  had  been 
made  to  raise  and  lower,  to 
swivel,  to  roll,  to  lean  when  the 
sitter  moved.  But  now  the  im- 
pulse arose  to  make  the  chair 
more  than  a  chair.  Like  other 
furniture,  chairs  sprouted  le- 
vers. A  chair  became  a  lounge, 
a  piano  housed  a  bed,  a  bed 
became  a  wardrobe. 

Another  technological  ad- 
vance, tubular  metal,  ap- 
peared in  chairs  as  early  as  the 
1850s:  the  tubes  were  shaped 
and  painted  to  resemble  wood. 
In  Britain,  a  cantilevered  rock- 
ing chair  appeared — a  frame  of 
strong,  flexible  tubing  curving 
upward  in  a  lazy  S  from  the 
floor.  But  the  idea  didn't  catch 
on  until  the  1920s,  redesigned 
by  Marcel  Breuer  (and  others) 
and  usually  called  the  Breuer 
chair. 

The  new  chairs  at  first  seemed 


shocking,  almost  truncated.  But 
many  design  awards  later,  such 
chairs,  with  their  clean,  strong, 
almost  industrially  precise 
shapes, "almost  seem  to  speak 
for  the  20th  century. 


Synthetic  Suds 

On  October  10, 1933,  a  sodium 
alkyl  sulfate  made  from  chlo- 
rosulfonic  acid  and  a  fatty  al- 
cohol went  on  the  market  for 
use  in  the  home.  A  Cincinnati 
firm  named  Procter  &  Gamble 
gave  the  first  synthetic  deter- 
gent a  catchier  name:  Dreft. 


Ballpoint  Pens 

The  first  workable  ball-point 
pen  was  invented  and  patented 
in  1938  by  two  Hungarian 
brothers,  Ladislao  and  Georg 
Biro.  When  World  War  II 
broke  out  the  brothers  moved 
to  Argentina,  where  they  set 


up  the  first  ball-point  pen  com- 
pany. 

A  few  years  later,  Milton 
Reynolds,  a  shrewd  U.S.  busi- 
nessman, bought  several  Biro 
pens  while  visiting  Buenos 
Aires.  With  the  help  of  an  en- 
gineer, he  redesigned  the  pen 
just  enough  to  claim  his  own 
U.S.  patent.  The  original  Rey- 
nolds ball-point  is  simple  in 
concept:  a  small  ball  rolls  in  a 
socket  on  the  tip  of  the  pen, 
transferring  ink  to  paper.  The 
ball  is  lubricated  by  the  ink  it- 
self, which  gravitates  to  the  pa- 
per from  a  reservoir  in  the  pen's 
body.  The  reservoir  does  not 
dry  out  because,  when  the  ball 
is  not  moving,  it  acts  as  a  seal. 

Both  the  British  Royal  Air 
Force  and  the  U.S.  Air  Force 
used  ball-point  pens  during 
World  War  II.  Flight  crews 
needed  a  convenient  and  ver- 
satile pen,  and  the  traditional 
fountain  pen  was  just  too 
sloppy. 

After  the  war,  the  ball-point 
pen  became  a  fad.  It  was,  after 
all,  guaranteed  to  last  for  two 
years,  "a  veritable  camel  of  a 
pen."  On  October  29,  1945, 
thousands  of  people  lined  up 
outside  Gimbels'  New  York 
store  to  pay  $12.50  for  "The 
Fantastic  Atomic  Era  Miracu- 
lous Ball-Point  Pen — guaran- 
teed to  write  underwater." 
Macy's  imported  Biro  pens 
from  Argentina  and  sold  them 
for  $19.98.  Some  people  flew 
in  all  the  way  from  the  West 
Coast  to  buy  these  marvelous 
utensils. 

Still,  the  fountain  pen  and 
the  inkwell  endured  into  the 
mid-'50s.  Ball-points  were  far 
too  inconsistent.  The  ink 
leaked,  smudged,  or  faded,  and 
the  pen  certainly  did  not  last 
two  years.  Ball-points  were 
banned  from  schools.  Banks 
refused  to  accept  checks  writ- 
ten with  a  ball-point,  fearing 
the  signatures  might  fade. 

But  in  1949,  an  Austrian 
chemist  named  Fran  Seech  had 
developed  the  first  successful 
ball-point  ink,  in  his  California 
kitchen.  The  Paper  Mate  Com- 
pany formed;  its  success  was 
based  on  Seech's  ink. 


In  1980  alone,  1.9  billion  ball- 
points were  sold  worldwide. 
These  items  which  20  years  ago 
sold  for  $12.50  can  now  be 
found  scattered  and  half-empty 
everywhere. 

Early  Reynolds  pens  exist, 
says  collector  George  James, 
president  of  the  National  Cap- 
ital Chapter  of  the  Pen  Fan- 
ciers' Club;  they  are  plain  alu- 
minum, as  distinguished  from 
red  or  blue  anodyzed  alumi- 
num. Only  one  original  Biro  is 
known. 


George  Schmidt, 
Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute 


Double  Vision 

Using  two  pairs  of  spectacles 
was  troublesome,  Ben  Frank- 
lin decided.  He  was  tired  of 
switching  glasses  to  read  or  to 
look  at  distant  objects.  So  he 
had  the  lenses  cut  up,  and  half 
of  each  lens  set  together  in  a 
circle.  The  result:  the  first  pair 
of  bifocals. 

In  1785  Franklin  wrote  a 
friend  from  abroad,  "This  I  find 
more  particularly  convenient 
since  my  being  in  France,  the 
glasses  that  serve  me  best  at 
table  to  see  what  I  eat,  not  being 
best  to  see  the  faces  of  those 
on  the  other  side  of  the  table 
who  speak  to  me;  and  when 
one's  ears  are  not  well  accus- 
tomed to  the  sounds  of  a  lan- 
guage, a  sight  of  the  move- 
ments in  the  features  of  him 
tnat  speaks  helps  to  explain;  so 
that  I  understand  French  bet- 
ter by  the  help  of  my  specta- 
cles." 

The  bifocal  idea  was  sug- 


APRIL  1982     XllI 


Division  of  Medical  Sciences 

National  Museum  of  American  History 

Smithsonian  Institution 


gested  in  1716  by  a  man  named 
Hertel  and  had  been  experi- 
mented with  in  London  as  early 
as  1760.  Advances  in  bifocals 
paralleled  a  growing  need  for 
them  as  p)eople  lived  longer  and 
as  they  turned  from  farming  to 
industry  and  business.  In  the 
1800s,  the  lenses'  popularity 
contributed  to  developing  vi- 
sion examination  procedures 
in  the  nascent  field  of  optom- 
etry: the  wide  range  of  bifocal 
lens  combinations  made  it  no 
longer  possible  to  select  ready- 
made  glasses  off  the  shelf  or 
from  a  peddler's  wagon. 

Dissatisfaction  with  bifocals 
for  such  activities  as  reading 
music — farther  away  than  a 
book,  but  not  that  distant — may 
well  have  contributed  to  a 
growing  use  of  trifocals  in  the 
mid-1930s.  In  the  '70s,  the 
preference  among  wearers  of 
bifocals  shifted  to  "invisible" 
bifocals — those  that  had  no 
visible  demarcation  between 
lens  powers. 

One  out  of  every  two  Amer- 
icans (113  million  people)  wears 
corrective  lenses.  Of  this  num- 
ber, 40  per  cent  (45  million) 
wear  bifocals  and  five  per  cent 
(six  million)  wear  trifocals.  Re- 
cently two  companies  began 
selling  bifocal  contact  lenses. 
In  January,  the  Food  and  Drug 
Administration  started  talks 
with  the  two  companies,  which 
may  halt  safes  for  more  testing 
on  the  lenses — a  temporary 
setback,  say  the  companies. 


Vending  Machines 

Forerunner  of  those  contem- 
porary machines  which  dis- 
pense coffee,  soup,  or  cola — 
usually  two  seconds  before  the 
paper  cup  meant  to  receive  the 


liquid  has  plopped  into  place — 
was  the  Automatic  Clerk.  Built 
by  T.  S.  Wheatcraft  of  Rush, 
Pennsylvania,  it  was  the  first 
vending  machine  to  sell  from 
bulk.  A  six-foot-high  wooden 
cabinet  equipped  with  heater, 
bags,  bagger,  and  weighing  de- 
vice, the  Automatic  Clerk 
proffered  bags  of  hot  peanuts. 


Pipes  and  Tubing 

Shopping  carts,  automobile 
exhausts,  house  plumbing,  bi- 
cycles, electrical  conduits. 


channels,  the  earliest  aque- 
ducts, were  vulnerable  to  con- 
tamination. The  first  real  pipes 
may  have  been  pottery  vessels 
wath  their  bases  broken  off,  laid 
end  to  end.  In  1958,  a  150-year- 
old  pipeline  was  unearthed  near 
Honolulu.  It  was  a  mile  long 
and  consisted  of  6,500  ceramic 
liquor  bottles  each  10  inches 
long.  The  neck  of  each  had  been 
inserted  into  the  broken  bot- 
tom of  the  next  in  line,  the  gaps 
plastered  over  with  clay. 

An  early  form  of  copper  pipe 
has  been  found  at  Abusir, 
Egypt,  and  dated  from  about 
2750  B.C.  It  was  formed  from 


chine  that  continually  rolls  it 
into  a  tube  and  welds  the  re- 
sulting seam.  Seamless  tubing, 
a  better  class  of  product,  starts 
out  as  a  round  bar  of  steel.  It 
is  then  forced  between  fast- 
spinning  heavy  rollers  onto  a 
mandrel,  in  effect  impaling  it — 
all  at  some  1300°  Centigrade. 

Tubing  is  used  for  anything 
that  needs  to  be  lightweight, 
yet  strong:  airplanes,  auto- 
mobiles, some  bridges — and 
bicycles.  In  a  bicycle  frame, 
tubing  is  "butted,"  meaning  it's 
beefed  up  where  subject  to 
higher  stress,  left  thin — per- 
haps just  a  sixty-fourth  of  an 
inch — where  it's  not.  Such  a 
frame,  custom-made  from  an 
exotic  alloy  of  manganese-mo- 
lybdenum steel,  may  cost  up- 
wards of  $500.  But  it  will  with- 
stand the  punishment  of  200 
pounds  hurtling  down  a  bumpy 
Alpine  road  at  50  miles  an  hour, 
and  yet  weigh  in  at  only  SVi 
pounds. 

The  owners  of  such  ma- 
chines— which  actually  bear 


handrails,  and  air  conditioners 
all  use  tubes.  Or  pipes,  which 
are  the  same  thing. 

Well,  not  quite:  "The  dif- 
ference between  pipe  and 
tube,"  notes  one  construction 
materials  text,  "is  a  complex 
thing  to  explain."  Each  lets 
something — like  water  or  wire 
or  steam — pass  down  its  hol- 
low length.  And  each  boasts 
impressive  strength  for  its 
weight.  "Tube,"  though,  seems 
to  emphasize  the  latter  quality, 
"pipe"  the  former. 

Pipes  have  been  around  a 
long  time.  Earthenware  jugs 
balanced  atop  the  head  could 
carry  only  so  much  water.  Open 


thin  sheets  bent  into  circular 
tubing,  the  resulting  longitu- 
dinal seam  simply  folded  over 
and  hammered  tight. 

"Pipes,"  then,  carry  water 
to  our  homes,  Alaskan  oil  to 
the  Lower  Forty-Eight; 
"tubes,"  though,  are  light  yet 
strong.  Take  a  wire  coat  han- 
ger and  untwist  it  to  its  full 
yard's  length;  it  will  bend  and 
flap  uncontrollably.  But  take 
the  same  weight  of  material  and 
fashion  it  into  a  thin-walled  tube 
of  the  same  length,  and  it  will 
stand  rigid,  supporting  its  own 
weight  and  more. 

Fashion  it  how?  Today, 
welded  pipes  are  made  by 
feeding  steel  strip  into  a  ma- 


manufacturers'  decals  testify- 
ing to  the  pedigree  of  their  tub- 
ing— are  wont  to  sneer  at  lum- 
bering department  store  bikes 
that  weigh  twice  as  much. 
"Lead  pipe  specials,"  they  call 
them. 

A  Future  in  Ivory 
Substitutes 

A  shortage  of  elephants  in  1863 
resulted  in  the  invention  of 
plastics.  John  and  Isaiah  Hyatt, 
inventors  of  celluloid,  were  the 
winners  of  a  $  I  (),()()()  award  of- 
fered by  a  Philadelphia  billiard 
ball  manufacturer  seeking  a 
material  to  substitute  for  ivory. 


XIV    ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


Flashlights 


When  Joshua  L.  Cowan,  in- 
ventor of  the  toy  electric  train, 
connected  a  dry-cell  battery 
with  a  light  bulb  at  one  end  of 
a  metaltube  and  a  switch  at 
the  other,  he'd  invented  the 
flashlight.  But  Cowan  didn't 
realize  it;  he  wanted  a  device 
that  would  light  up  flowers  in 
their  pots. 

Seen  as  a  toy  or  novelty,  the 
first  commercial  flashlight  was 
made  by  the  American  Electric 
and  Novelty  Manufacturing 
Company,  later  known  as 
American  Eveready  Com- 
pany. In  1898  the  New  York 
City  firm  produced  its  initial 
crude  model.  The  tube  was  pa- 
per, with  metal  fittings.  In- 
stead of  a  lens,  its  light  was  re- 
flected by  a  rough  brass  shield. 

Early  flashlights  were  hardly 
light.  The  dry  cell  was  six  inches 
long  and  the  whole  tube 
weighed  about  six  pounds. 


Buttons 

Buttons  with  buttonholes  are 
of  little  advantage  without  tai- 
lored clothes.  Ancient  Greeks, 
Romans,  Chinese,  and  Egyp- 
tians kept  their  flowing  robes 
in  place  with  clasps,  buckles, 
sashes,  arid  fibulae  (ancestors 
of  the  modern  safety  pin),  and 
early  buttons  seem  to  have  been 
strictly  ornamental.  Still,  some 
scholars  contend  that  buttons 
and  buttonholes  date  from  pa- 
leohthic  days. 

Whatever  its  beginnings,  the 
button's  first  utilitarian  ap- 
pearance in  western  Europe 
came  as  the  Dark  Ages  were 
brightened  by  Persian  spoils 
from  the  Crusades.  Metal  but- 
tons, often  of  gold  or  silver, 
were  worn  by  13th-century 
royalty  and  nobility.  (A  French 
law  required  clerks  and  people 
of  lower  ranks  to  wear  cloth- 
or  thread-covered  buttons.) 

By  the  reign  of  Louis  XVI, 
buttons  fashioned  of  precious 
metals,  ivory,  diamonds,  and 
other  gems  were  desired;  many 
were  one-and-one-half  inches 
in  diameter.  Some  buttons  fea- 


tured elaborate  and  often 
bawdy  scenes  of  court  and 
courting  life.  Fops  coveted 
them;  republicans  despised 
them. 

Across  the  Channel,  the 
Enghsh  government,  seeking 
to  protect  its  button  industry, 
decreed  in  1688  that  only  metal 
buttons  were  to  be  made  and 
worn.  The  French,  contrari- 
wise, to  protect  the  silk  indus- 
try of  Lyons,  had  laws  to  en- 
courage the  manufacture  of 
fabric-covered  buttons.  The 
English  law  was  eventually  re- 
scinded, in  1727,  but  mean- 
while English  advances  in  but- 
ton making — machine  dies  for 
pressing,  stamping,  and  deco- 
rating— were  applied  to  pro- 
ducing all  types  of  metal  ob- 
jects, including  parts  for  clocks 
and  weapons. 

By  the  end  of  the  19th  cen- 
tury, the  first  plastic  buttons  had 
appeared.  One  early  patent,  in 
1879,  went  to  William  Niles  of 
Jersey  City,  New  Jersey.  Niles's 
ornamental  buttons  were  made 
from  a  mixture  of  materials  that 
included  blood.  During  World 
War  II,  a  U.S.  manufacturer 
treated  buttons  chemically  to 
produce  a  variety  that  glowed 


t    t 


in  the  dark  for  blackouts.  By 
day,  they  were  plain  and  un- 
assuming. 


Salt  of  the  Earth 

Common  table  salt  contains  at- 
oms of  chlorine,  and  more  than 
half  of  U.S.  salt  production  goes 
toward  making  that  poisonous 
gas — which  serves  as  a  raw  ma- 
terial for  solvents,  plastics,  and 
"automotive  fluids."  As  it  hap- 
pens, not  eaters  but  the  auto- 
mobile may  account  for  the 
largest  use  of  salt,  from  chlo- 
rine-derived antifreeze  and 
plastics  to  the  road  salt  that 
helps  keep  icy  highways  clear. 

Chemically,  a  salt  is  the 
product  of  an  acid  and  a  base. 
Common  table  salt  can  be 
viewed  as  the  mating  of  a  par- 
ticular, very  strong  acid  (hy- 
drochloric) with  a  particular, 
very  strong  base  (sodium  hy- 
droxide, or  lye). 

The  resulting  compound 
helps  melt  snow  by  depressing 
its  freezing  point.  It  preserves 
meat  and  fish  by  establishing 
an  environment  hostile  to  bac- 
terial life.  It  is  used  to  manu- 
facture dye  and  soften  hard 
water.  And  it  seasons  food — 
but  too  much  of  it  can  upset 
the  body's  fluid  balance  and 
help  cause  hypertension. 

Salt  is  found  in  vast  under- 
ground deposits  that  occasion- 
ally thrust  up  to  the  surface,  as 
in  Hungarian  Transylvania.  It's 
found  in  beds  left  behind  by 
extinct  ancient  seas.  It's  found 
in  the  oceans  of  the  world,  so- 
dium chloride  along  with  less 
common  salts,  at  a  little-vary- 


APRIL  1982    XV 


ing  concentration  of  35  parts 
per  thousand.  There  are  whole 
mountains  made  of  salt,  natu- 
ral "pillars"  of  salt,  lakes  and 
inland  seas  that  are  10,  15,  20 
per  cent  salt  and  more. 

So  there's  no  great  problem 
finding  it;  transporting  it's  the 
trick,  because  the  need  is  al- 
ways for  great  heaps  of  it:  pre- 
serving a  pound  of  bacon  takes 
a  full  pound  of  salt.  Humans 
typically  consume  about  10 
pounds  of  table  salt  a  year;  in- 
deed, salt  consumption  figures 
have  been  used  to  estimate 
population  .  .  .  And  these  days, 
just  keeping  the  nation's  roads 
clear  of  snow  takes  more  than 
fifteen  billion  pounds  of  salt  a 
year. 

Blood  is  a  saline  solution: 
plasma  is  90  per  cent  water,  9 
per  cent  protein,  and  .9  per  cent 
salts.  That  sodium  chloride  is 
necessary  because  it  helps  pro- 
teins dissolve.  So  vital  is  salt  to 
human  digestion,  in  fact,  that 
as  the  nomad  evolved  into  the 
farmer,  its  use  became  daily. 
The  nomadic  hunters  got 
enough  salt  from  raw  or  roasted 
flesh,  but  people  on  a  diet  of 
vegetables,  cereals,  or  boiled 
meat  need  salt  as  a  condiment. 
Salt  became  truly  the  salt  of 
life. 

Cakes  of  salt  were  used  as 
money;  a  Roman  soldier  re- 
ceived a  satarium,  an  allow- 


ance of  salt  (later  the  money 
to  buy  salt).  In  some  Oriental 
lands,  taxes  on  salt  were  so  ex- 
orbitant that  the  substance  was 
cut  with  other  look-alikes,  as 
are  controlled  substances  to- 
day. The  gabelle  (salt  tax)  of 
18th-century  France  com- 
pelled every  person  above  the 
age  of  7  to  buy  seven  pounds 
of  salt  from  the  government 
each  year.  An  average  family 
of  four  worked  19  days  per  year 
to  pay  for  its  salt.  "In  Nor- 
mandy," reported  one  official, 
"unhappy  wretches  who  have 
no  bread  are  daily  seized,  pros- 
ecuted, and  their  property 
seized  for  not  buying  salt" — a 
festering  injustice  that  fueled 
the  French  Revolution. 


Zea  mays  everta 

Popcorn  was  introduced  to  the 
Pilgrims  at  the  first  Thanksgiv- 
ing dinner  on  February  22, 
1630.  One  of  the  dinner  guests, 
Quadequina,  brother  of  Mas- 
sasoit,  brought  as  his  contri- 
bution a  deerskin  bag  contain- 
ing several  bushels  of  the 
popped  corn. 


2 


Invasion  of  the 
Body  Patchers 

On  December  6,  1917,  Earle 
Dickson  married  Josephine 
Francis  Knight.  Without  this 
marriage,  the  adhesive  band- 
age might  never  have  been  in- 
vented. 

Josephine  was  prone  to  fum- 
bUng  in  the  kitchen,  especially 
while  dicing  and  chopping.  Fi- 
nally Earle  decided  to  rig  up 
some  small  prefab  bandages  by 
attaching  gauze  to  adhesive 
tape,  and  he  bragged  about  the 
idea  at  work.  His  employer, 
Johnson  &  Johnson,  manufac- 
tured household  products,  in- 
cluding gauze  and  adhesive.  As 
Dickson  would  later  say,  "The 
boys  in  the  front  office  loved 
the  concept." 

They  loved  it  so  much  that 
he  eventually  became  a  vice 
president  of  the  company. 

The  first  adhesive  bandages 
were  made  by  hand  from  gauze 
and  cotton  adhesive  tape.  Sales 
were  brisk;  by  1925,  the  ad- 
hesive bandage  machine  had 
been  introduced. 

In  the  late  1940s,  Johnson  & 
Johnson  switched  to  an  elastic 
backing,  so  the  bandages  would 
stretch  and  adhere  better 
around  joints.  The  new  band- 
ages came  in  assorted  shapes, 
including  a  T  for  the  fingertip 
and  an  H  for  knuckle  scrapes. 


{ 


Compiled  by  Kevin  Bjerregaard, 
Robert  Kanigel.  Elaine  EanffloLs, 
Gina  Maranio,  and  Mary  Ruth  Yoe. 


Later,  these 
shapes  were  aban- 
doned in  favor  of  a  circular  de- 
sign. 

At  first,  the  gauze  was  treated 
with  Mercurochrome  antisep- 
fic.  During  World  War  II,  sulfa 
was  used.  Recently,  the  use  of 
antiseptic  was  outlawed  be- 
cause of  possible  allergic  re- 
actions. 

Early  Band-Aid  Brand  Ad- 
hesive Bandages  were  white, 
glaringly  obvious  on  any  skin. 
Later  came  pinkish  "flesh-col- 
ored" products  and,  for  a  short 
time,  clear  ones.  Explains  Tom 
Murphy,  director  of  Johnson 
&  Johnson's  Kilmer  Museum, 
"Skin  colors  vary  so  drasti- 
cally, we  decided  it  would  be 


economically  infeasible  to  pro- 
duce different  colored  band- 
ages for  the  different  ethnic 
groups.  But  it  is  an  appealing 
idea  to  some  people." 

Latest  developments:  the  H- 
shaped  bandage  is  back,  with 
an  hourglass-shaped  cousin  (for 
the  injured  fingertip). 


XVI    ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


A  Closer  Look 
at  George  Schmidt 


In  case  you  haven't  already  noticed,  pho- 
tographs by  WPI's  George  Schmidt  grace 
this  issue  of  the  Journal,  on  page  XIII  and 
on  the  front  cover.  Small  wonder. 

Schmidt,  Engineering  Assistant  in  the 
ME  department,  is  considered  by  many 
who've  seen  his  work  to  be  WPI's  resident 
photographic  expert.  Strictly  an  amateur, 
he's  shown  his  work  widely  and  received 
many  awards,  incuding  first  place  in  the 
prestigious  Boston  Globe  photo  contest, 
worth  $1,000 — "the  only  one  that's  ever 
paid  off,"  he  says.  "But  these  days,  that 
doesn't  buy  much  film." 

In  a  recent  interview,  Schmidt  ex- 
plained how  he  got  started  in  photogra- 
phy. Materials  sciences,  where  he's  worked 
for  most  of  his  career,  can  require  a  great 
deal  of  photography  to  record  microstruc- 
tures  of  all  sorts  of  things.  After  serving 
in  World  War  II,  he  recalls,  he  took  a  job 
at  the  Naval  Research  Laboratory  in 
Washington,  D.C.,  in  the  metallurgy  de- 
partment. "It  was  there  that  I  was  intro- 
duced to  the  darkroom." 

Since  joining  WPI  in  1963,  Schmidt  has 
been  deeply  involved  in  electron  and  op- 
tical microscopy,  photomicrography  and" 
technical  illustration  for  books  and  re- 
ports. That  he  works  almost  exclusively 
with  color  slides  serves  to  distinguish  his 
professional  from  his  leisure-time  pho- 
tographic interests.  In  the  lab,  he  ex- 
plains, "we  work  only  in  black  and  white," 
though  through  the  miracle  of  polarized 


light,  false  color  can  be  added  to  photo- 
micrography. "I  just  like  color,"  he  says. 

That  becomes  vividly  evident  when  you 
walk  into  Schmidt's  Washburn  office.  Walls 
lined  meticulously  with  oversized  prints 
reflect  the  precision  with  which  he  treats 
his  subjects,  but  they  stand  in  sharp  con- 
trast to  nature's  random  effects  on  these 
subjects — architecture,  fields  and  sea,  man- 
made  artifacts. 

Schmidt  attributes  much  of  his  success 
to  a  summer  photographic  program  he  at- 
tended some  15  years  ago.  There,  he  be- 
lieves, he  learned  "how  to  look  at  things," 
finding  more  picture  opportunities,  seeing 
ordinary  things  as  interesting  and  beau- 


Left,  George  Schmidt  with  WPI's  scan- 
ning electron  microscope.  Above,  Talc 
Mill  in  Bethel,  VT.  Below,  Summer 
House  Boarded  Up  for  Winter, 
Cape  Cod. 

tiful,  probing  through  his  pictures  how 
things  are  put  together. 

It  was  at  that  Vermont  photo  school 
that  he  also  met  his  wife,  Willa,  who  is 
herself  an  accomplished  photographer. 
Though  their  styles  differ  considerably, 
mostly  in  the  intensity  with  which  they 
treat  light  and  color,  they  travel  exten- 
sively together,  usually  shooting  the  same 
subjects  but  seldom  coming  home  with 
the  same  pictures. 

Schmidt  is  also  active  in  the  WPI  foot- 
ball program.  For  nearly  20  years,  he's 
been  atop  the  windiest  and  wettest  of  press 
boxes  from  Lewiston  to  New  London  fill- 
ing miles  of  film  with  team  movies. 

He  is  president  of  the  Gateway  Camera 
Club  of  Framingham  and  the  Boston 
Camera  Club.  He  and  Willa  host  an  In- 
tersession  course  on  photographic  tech- 
niques. They  also  conduct  25  to  30  pro- 
grams per  year  at  photo  clubs  and  judge 
camera  club  competition  across  New  Eng- 
land. Both  George  and  Willa  are  recipi- 
ents of  the  Excellence  International  Fed- 
eration of  Photographic  Art  (EIFAP) 
Award,  given  for  outstanding  exhibitions 
of  their  work.  They  also  each  hold  the 
distinguished  title  of  MNEC — Master 
Member  of  the  New  England  Council  of 
Camera  Clubs. 

Asked  if  he's  ever  freelanced,  the  char- 
acteristically modest  reply  is:  "Well,  it's 
something  I  might  do  after  I  retire.  But 
for  now,  I'm  having  too  much  fun." 


APRIL  1982 


29 


\\T!  CL---5  X 


-    V 


^--iri: 


«w 


S^:!^   i93C 


»  IK.   1^  CBXL    -JC  TBC:   S  ^   -•-       «" 


Tjjrrr    -r     ■>* 


TEC  .mSBiK.   C 


-^niiii/iiii  r.^cnnKTcc.  'WC 


TTi~i«-'   an. 


iPiMi 


*^- 


XT    MIM.  IB-    2Z 


SB 


"Mr.  Electronics" 
Honored 

John  Burgarella.  '50.  a  key  figure  in  the 
development  of  many  "firsts"  m  mstant 
photography,  has  been  appointed  a  cor- 
porate officer  by  the  board  of  directors  of 
Polaroid  with  the  title  of  senior  engi- 
neering fellow. 

Currently  the  assistant  division  man- 
ager of  the  Equipment  and  Facilities  En- 
gineering Division,  he  was  recently  hon- 
ored for  his  technical  contnbutions  during 
his  21 -year  career  with  the  firm. 

At  Polaroid.  Burgarella  is  known  as  "Mr. 
Electronics"  for  his  leading-edge  work  in 
the  Color  Pack-2  and  the  SX-70  system. 
Most  of  his  25  patents  are  in  electronics 
and  magnetics,  with  several  in  mechanics. 
His  pioneering  contributions  include  the 
electronic  exposure  control,  the  electron- 
ically-programmed camera,  the  electron- 
ically-sequenced  and  electronically-fired 
flash  unit,  and  use  of  photodiodes  and 
power  transistors  on  integrated  circuits. 

In  1950  Burgarella  received  his  BSEE 
with  distinction  at  WTI.  and  later  received 
his  master's  degree.  His  son.  Steven,  a 
mechanical  engineering  major,  is  cur- 
rently a  member  of  the  Class  of  1984.  In 
1979  his  other  son.  Paul,  graduated  from 
WPI  as  an  electrical  engineer. 

His  two  daughters  are  also  in  scientific 
fields.  Jane  is  working  toward  her  mas- 
ter's degree  in  food  science  at  North  Car- 
olina State  University,  and  Carol  will 
graduate  in  May  as  a  physics  major  from 
Mt.  Holyoke  College. 

Burgarella  attends  most  of  the  Sudburv 


John  Burgarella,  50.  demonstrating  the 
SX-70  Land  camera  which  he  helped  to 
develop  at  Polaroid. 

town  meetings,  a  form  of  government  he 
strongly  endorses.  He  enjoys  summer  gar- 
dening, and  in  winter  his  free  time  tends 
toward  energy  conservation.  His  house, 
which  he  built  himself  in  the  late  1950s, 
is  highly  efficient  thermally,  but  he's  done 
some  heat  exchanger  development  on  his 
wood  stove. 

Says  Burgarella.  "Year-round,  auto 
mechanics  is  a  hobby  (necessity?),  with 
so  many  children  in  college  who  have  old 
cars  to  be  kept  alive." 


can't  beat  "the  old  man."  In  spite  of  his  -Way 
golfing  weeks.  John  remains  active  in  com- 
munity affairs,  goes  fishing,  pla\^  bridge,  trav- 
els, and  attends  meetings  of  the  1500  U.S.  Steel 
annuitants  in  the  Tampa  area.  John,  who  was 
with  U.S.  Steel  for  42  years.  lives  with  his  wife. 
EveivTi,  on  the  18th  fairway  of  one  of  the  two 
golf  dubs  to  which  they  belong. 

Since  his  retirement  in  1971 ,  Edward  Perkms 
and  his  wife.  Mildred,  have  built  a  summer 
home  in  Vermont,  wintered  in  Tavares.  FL. 
and  traveled  to  the  Canadian  Rockies.  Scan- 
dinavia, the  national  parks,  the  Canadian 
Rockies,  and  been  around  the  worid  in  45  days. 
They  plan  to  go  to  Europe  this  year.  Ed  still 
finds  time  to  play  golf  and  claims  that  building 
the  Vermont  house  helped  him  to  withstand  a 
heart  attack  from  which  he  has  made  a  good 
recovery. 

The  Emil  Ostlunds  opted  to  convert  their 
summer  house  in  Pocasset.  MA.  on  Buzzards 
Bay  into  an  all-season  retirement  home.  "Right 
in  front  of  our  house  there  is  the  best  shell 
fishing  on  the  Cape  with  plenty  of  clams,  qua- 
hogs.  scallops.  o>-sters  and  mussels,  as  well  as 
finny  tvpes  such  as  flounder  and  blue  fish  " 
Thev  have  causht  so  manv  lobsters  in  their 


traps  that  they  are  tired  of  eating  them.  Emil. 
a  consultant,  recently  completed  a  job  in  Spain 
for  a  steel  company.  He  also  takes  on  some 
local  jobs.  Both  of  the  Osdunds  play  golf,  but 
like  the  change  of  seasons  and  don't  plan  to 
join  the  folks  in  Florida. 

John  Scliatz  and  his  wife.  Lillian,  enjoy  trav- 
eling. To  date,  they  have  been  to  Italy,  the 
Caribbean,  .\ustria.  Bermuda,  Florida  and 
Hawaii.  During  a  15-day  trip  to  Germany,  they 
attended  the  Passion  Play  at  Oberammergau. 
When  not  touring,  thev  reside  m  Wvnantskill. 
NY. 

Smniier  Sweetser  retired  from  Exxon  in  1976 
and  divides  his  time  between  Summit.  NJ.  and 
Manomet  on  Cape  Cod  Bay  When  queried  as 
to  how  long  it  takes  to  get  used  to  redrement. 
his  standard  answer  is.  ".About  two  days."  In 
Summit  the  local  Red  Cross  Chapter,  the  Old 
Guard  (an  assocation  of  retired  business- 
professional  people)  and  tennis  and  swimming 
keep  him  busy .  .At  Manomet  he  fishes  and  tries 
to  keep  "all  the  paint  from  gettmg  blowii  off 
of  the  house."  An  occasional  fishing  trip  with 
Buck  Whjttum  is  always  enjoyable.  He  says. 
■"  Sub"  found  it  necessary  to  grab  the  nearest 
salt  shaker  when  reading  Osdund's  news!" 


Gordon  Whittum  and  his  wife,  fcay,  settled  m 
Eaicnarr.  on  Cape  Cod  after  his  retirement  from 
Amencan  Steel  and  Wire.  "Buck"  is  active  with 
the  US.  Coast  Guard  Au.xiliary  and  Kay  works 
for  the  Society  for  the  Preservation  of  Cape 
Cod.  He  has  a  boat  and  trailer  for  fishing.  "But 
the  fish  haven  "t  been  very  cooperative  for  the 
last  couple  of  years."  Last  year  the  Wluttums 
finally  made  it  to  the  Canadian  Rockies  via 
plane,  rail  and  bus.  They  found  Canada  to  be 
a  big.  beautiful  country  with  congenial  people 
and  wildlife  everywhere.  Enthusiastic  about 
Cape  Cod.  also,  they  heartily  endorse  bike  rid- 
ing on  the  new  Cape  Cod  Rail  Trail.  "16  miles 
of  dehghtful  scenery  with  no  hills. "" 

SoBraier  B.  Sweetser,  Class  Secretary 


1934 


George  KaUsta  recendy  retired  from  the  re- 
search and  development  center  located  at  the 
Naval  Weapons  Station  Earle  after  31  years. 
He  had  held  the  positions  of  ordnance,  me- 
chanical, general,  industrial  and  misale  sys- 
tems engineer  in  the  guided  mis^e  programs. 
(The  Weapons  Station  Earie  was  named  in 
honor  of  the  late  Admiral  Ralph  Earle.  for- 
meriy  the  chief  of  the  Bureau  of  Ordnance  and 
a  past  president  of  WTI. ) 

Over  the  years,  George  has  been  employed 
by  Commonwealth  Brewing  Corp.,  U.S.  En- 
velope, Pratt  and  Whitney  .Aircraft,  and 
Springfield  (NLA)  .Armory,  where  he  was  an 
ordnance  engineer  for  development  and  test 
engineering  in  the  research  department.  .Active 
with  WPI  alumni  affairs,  he  served  as  vice  pres- 
ident and  secretary-treasurer  of  the  Connect- 
icut \'alley  chapter  of  the  Alumm  .Association, 
as  well  as  a  high  school  contact  for  the  former 
Techni-Forum  program. 

Currendy.  George  plans  to  spend  the  winter 
months  in  a  "'warm  climate."  He  is  concen- 
tratmg  on  golf  with  the  objective  of  scoring  his 
age.  "T  improve  on  the  techniques,  but  there 
is  still  the  time  shppage  factor,  so  I'll  have  to 
be  around  for  a  long  time  " 


1936 


HJ.  Erickson.  who  is  retired  from  Bethlehem 
Steel,  resides  in  St.  Michaels.  MD. 


1937 


Reunion 


June  3-6.  1982 


!▼«•  Rosenhind  has  retired  from  du  Pont.  He 
lives  in  Kimberton.  PA. 


1938 


Leo  Crooin,  a  member  of  the  Presidents  .Ad- 
visory Council  at  WPI.  has  been  selected  to 
appear  m  the  I3ih  (1*^81-198^2)  edition  of  Who's 
Who  in  California.  He  received  a  scroll  fR">m 
the  Society  "in  recognition  of  e.\ceptional 


APRIL  1982 


31 


achievement,  leadership  and  service."  During 
his  career,  he  has  been  with  U.S.  Gypsum; 
RCA;  Raytheon;  and  Semicon  of  California. 
Inc.  In  1963  he  founded  Spectra-Mat.  Inc.,  which 
he  continues  to  serve  as  president  and  chair- 
man of  the  board.  His  firm  makes  components 
used  in  lasers,  cancer  treatment,  satellites,  etc. 
He  is  also  associated  with  Spectra-Flux,  SC  Ca- 
bhng  and  Relmag  Division  of  EEV.  Inc.  He 
has  served  as  president  of  the  Chamber  of 
Commerce  and  the  Rotary.  Last  year  he  was 
named  a  Paul  Harris  Fellow.  Active  in  church 
activities,  he  also  enjoys  golf,  bowling,  biking 
and  jogging. 


1942 


Reunion 


June  3-6,  1982 


1943 

Robert  Schedin.  president  and  chief  executive 
officer  of  Fairlawn  Hospital.  Inc..  was  elected 
to  the  board  of  trustees  of  Becker  Junior  Col- 
lege, Worcester.  Formerly  he  served  as  direc- 
tor of  engineering  at  Crompton  &  Knowles. 


1945 


Sidney  Wetherhead  has  been  named  marketing 
director,  a  new  position  in  the  abrasives  mar- 
keting group  at  Norton  Co.,  Worcester.  Prior 
to  his  latest  appointment,  he  managed  Nor- 
ton's technology  sales  and  licensing  activity 
throughout  the  world. 


1946 


Paul  Gorman,  executive  vice  president  of  Chas. 
T.  Main.  Inc.,  Boston,  has  been  elected  as  a 
fellow  by  the  American  Consulting  Engineers 
Council  (ACEC)  in  recognition  of  highly  dis- 
tinguished professional  service  and  accom- 
plishments. He  joined  Main  in  1975  as  vice 
president  and  manager  of  the  nuclear  power 
division.  He  has  since  served  in  the  same  ca- 
pacity for  the  thermal  nuclear  division  and  as 
group  vice  president  in  charge  of  engineering 
and  design.  Active  in  Brockton  civic  affairs,  he 
also  is  a  lecturer  in  power  plant  economics  and 
design  at  the  Northeastern  University  Gradu- 
ate School  of  Engineering.  Prior  to  joining  Main, 
he  was  vice  president  of  the  Boston  Power  De- 
partment of  United  Engineers  &  Constructors. 
Inc.  and  vice  president-manager  of  the  Power 
Department  for  the  Jackson  &  Morcland  Di- 
vision. The  ACEC,  to  which  he  has  been  named 
a  fellow,  is  the  nation's  largest  organization 
devoted  exclusively  to  advancement  of  con- 
sulting engineering  firms  in  private  practice. 


1947 


Reunion  June  3-6,  1982 

Last  year  Andrew  (ioettman  was  honored  as 


"Plant  Engineer  of  the  Year"  in  North  Caro- 
lina by  the  American  Institute  of  Plant  Engi- 
neers (AIPE)  in  recognition  of  his  outstanding 
contributions  to  the  plant  engineering  field 
throughout  his  35-year  career.  Currently,  he  is 
plant  engineer  at  Lorillard  in  Greensboro.  NC. 
where  he  is  responsible  for  maintenance,  con- 
struction, security,  power  plant  operation,  en- 
ergy conservation,  groundskeeping  and  waste 
management. 

At  the  present  time,  he  is  a  registered  profes- 
sional engineer  in  several  states.  He  is  a  cer- 
tified plant  engineer  and  a  past  president  of  the 
Piedmont  Chapter  of  the  AIPE.  He  serves  on 
the  board  of  governors  for  the  North  Carolina 
Professional  Engineers  and  is  a  director  of  his 
local  chapter  and  chairman  of  the  nominating 
committee. 

Of  his  job,  Goettman  says.  "Plant  engi- 
neering is  the  complaint  department.  My  prin- 
cipal challenge  is  making  our  services  timely 
and  satisfactory  to  all  the  other  departments." 

Goettman  and  his  wife,  Dorothy,  who  enjoy 
playing  golf,  are  the  parents  of  four  daughters 
and  one  son.  In  his  spare  time  he  likes  to  re- 
store old  cars,  and  is  especially  fond  of  1960- 
65  Chrysler  products.  "With  five  children  I  get 
plenty  of  practice  maintaining  and  servicing  all 
the  family  vehicles." 


1948 


Carl  Hershfield  recently  received  the  Elec- 
tronic Industries  Association's  1981  engineer- 
ing award  of  excellence.  He  is  an  engineering 
support  manager  at  GTE  Sylvania.  Needham, 
MA. 


1949 


Homer  MacNutt,  Jr.,  vice  president  for  man- 
ufacturing of  the  Morgan  Construction  Co., 
has  been  elected  a  new  trustee  of  Hahnemann 
Hospital,  Worcester. 


1950 


Last  July  the  Bill  Bowens  spent  two  weeks 
cruising  Alaska  and  had  a  seaplane  flight  over 
the  ice  cap.  Bill  is  opening  up  a  consulting  busi- 
ness. 

Francis  Norton  continues  as  a  construction 
superintendent  at  Monsanto  in  Alvin,  TX. 


1952 


Reunion 


June  3-6,  1982 


William  Cimonetti.  still  with  GE,  is  now  gen- 
eral manager  for  the  firm  in  Burlington,  VI. 


1954 


Milton  Meckler  of  the  Meckler  (jroup,  Encino, 
CA.  was  slated  to  speak  at  the  Third  Inter- 
national Symposium  on  Energy  Conservation 


in  the  Built  Environment  in  Dublin,  Ireland, 
in  March.  He  was  to  discuss  his  firm's  manual 
computation  program  originally  developed  for 
estimating  building  energy  requirements  for  the 
California  Energy  Commission.  In  January  he 
spoke  on  the  opening  day  of  the  Fourth  Inter- 
national Conference  on  Thermal  Insulation  in 
Millbrae.  CA.  His  new  book.  Retrofitting  for 
Energy  Conservation,  which  he  co-authored,  is 
scheduled  for  publication  in  1982.  Recently  he 
was  appointed  to  the  part-time  faculty  in  the 
Mechanical  and  Chemical  Engineering  De- 
partment at  California  State  University,  North- 
ridge,  where  he  teaches  a  course  called  "The 
Environment  in  a  Technological  Society." 

Edwin  Prantis  serves  as  construction  man- 
ager at  Ebasco  Services  Incorporated  in  New 
York  City. 


1957 


Reunion 


June  3-6,  1982 


1958 

Dr.  Shelden  Radin,  a  member  of  the  Physics 
Department  at  Lehigh  University,  Bethlehem, 
PA,  is  the  co-author  of  a  textbook  titled  Phys- 
ics for  Scientists  and  Engineers  just  published 
by  Prentice-Hall.  The  book  is  meant  to  be  used 
for  the  introductory  physics  course  taken  by 
most  college  engineering  and  science  students 
in  their  first  years  in  college,  or  by  high  school 
students  in  calculus-based  advanced  placement 
physics  courses.  As  a  co-author  Radin  writes; 
"In  our  experience  some  students  are  over- 
whelmed by  physics  because  they  treat  each 
topic  as  if  it  were  a  separate  subject.  To  try  to 
overcome  this  tendency,  we  point  out  the  in- 
terrelationships that  emphasize  the  unity  of 
physics." 


1959 


On  January  1st,  Dr.  Joseph  Bronzino  became 
chairman  .of  the  Engineering  Department  at 
Trinity  College  in  Hartford,  CT.  He  remains 
director  of  the  Greater  Hartford  Center  for 
Biomedical  Engineering  Education  which  in- 
cludes Trinity  College,  the  Hartford  Graduate 
Center,  Hartford  Hospital,  Saint  Francis  Hos- 
pital and  Medical  Center,  and  the  University 
of  Connecticut  Health  Center.  Joe  is  looking 
forward  to  the  publication  of  his  second  book. 
Computer  Applications  for  Patient  Care,  by 
Addison-Wesley  this  spring. 

Oscar  Hawley  is  dean  of  St.  Katharines-  St. 
Mark's  School,  a  high  school  in  Bcttcndorf,  lA. 

Peter  Nelson  has  been  named  the  1981  En- 
gineer of  the  Year  by  the  Westmoreland  County 
Chapter  of  the  Pennsylvania  Society  of  Profes- 
sional Engineers. 


1960 


William  Fenwick  is  director  of  operations  at 
Trans-National  Technologies,  Inc.,  New  York 
City. 


32        WPI  JOURNAL 


Sang  Ki  Lee,  an  attorney  for  the  Interna- 
tional Division  of  Motorola,  Inc.,  writes  "I  have 
had  to  orchestrate  a  situation  in  Korea  for  our 
management  over  the  last  seven  months  which 
involved  shuttling  back  and  forth  between  Chi- 
cago and  Seoul.  Now  the  situation  is  on  track 
and  we  are  making  progress.  It  was  one  of  my 
most  challenging  and  rewarding  experiences." 
His  wife,  Helen,  is  very  much  concerned  with 
her  work  at  NW  Community  Hospital. 

Bob  Mercer  continues  as  principal  in  Mercer 
Associates,  a  manufacturer's  representative  or- 
ganization for  the  power  generation  and  en- 
vironmental systems  industries.  Bob  and  Janet, 
who  have  a  son,  16,  and  a  daughter,  14,  live 
in  "beautiful"  Charlotte,  NC.  "We  would  like 
to  make  the  25th." 

Paul  W.  Bayliss,  Secretary 


1962 


Reunion 


June  3-6,  1982 


John  Peterson,  Jr.  continues  as  a  tire  devel- 
opment scientist  at  BF  Goodrich  in  Akron,  OH. 
The  Rev.  Andrew  Terwilleger  of  Lexington, 
KY,  started  a  one-year  term  as  Kiwanis  lieu- 
tenant governor  in  October.  In  this  capacity  he 
is  responsible  for  administration  of  the  Kiwanis 
Division,  which  includes  15  Kiwanis  clubs  in 
six  counties.  Andy  is  head  agent  for  the  Class 
of  1962. 


1963 


With  the  Kodak  Research  Laboratories,  Roch- 
ester, NY,  since  1968,  Dr.  Harry  Hoyen,  Jr. 
has  participated  in  a  broad  spectrum  of  re- 
search activities  in  basic  studies  of  silver  halides 


and  in  applied  research  for  product  develop- 
ment. In  sohd-state  technology,  Harry  has  ap- 
plied the  concept  of  space  charges  to  the  study 
of  ions  of  silver  halides.  He  has  an  MS  in  chem- 
istry from  WPI,  as  well  as  a  PhD  in  materials 
science  and  engineering  from  Cornell. 


1964 


Christopher  Almy  recently  returned  home  after 
a  stint  at  Ft.  Monmouth,  NJ.  He  still  attends 
classes  once  a  week  and  has  two  weeks  of  active 
duty  once  a  year.  He  continues  with  Knolls 
Atomic  Power  Laboratory  in  Schenectady,  NY. 
He  and  Margie  have  three  children,  all  in 
"gifted"  programs,  and  reside  in  Scotia. 

Richard  Ryczek  has  been  named  as  the  re- 
cipient of  the  Frank  Quinn  Memorial  Award 
awarded  by  the  Purchasing  Management  As- 
sociation of  Syracuse  and  Central  New  York. 
Ryczek,  who  was  cited  for  his  work  on  the 
education  committee ,  serves  as  manager  of  sys- 
tems purchasing  at  Niagara  Mohawk  Power 
Corp. ,  Syracuse.  He  has  been  a  member  of  the 
association  since  1974  and  has  held  the  post  of 
chairman  of  the  committee  on  certified  pur- 
chasing management  for  the' past  three  years. 
A  licensed  professional  engineer,  he  also  holds 
an  MS  degree  in  industrial  administration  from 
Union  College. 


1965 


Dr.  Donald  Kerr  continues  with  the  Black-and- 
White  Photographic  Division  at  Kodak  Re- 
search Laboratories  in  Rochester,  NY.  Since 
joining  the  laboratories  in  1969,  his  activities 
have  ranged  from  computer  modeling  studies 
for  instrumentation  design  for  a  blood  analyzer 


Dr.  Richard  lacobucci,  '63,  surveying  part  of  Nature  Preserve,  Inc,  Pembroke,  MA, 
which  he  serves  as  director.  He  is  using  his  Harvard  law  degree  "to  battle  myopic 
town  assesors  who  refuse  to  grant  tax-exempt  status  to  a  deserving  wildlife  sanctu- 
ary. "  He  is  president  of  Roctronics  Entertainment  Lighting. 


to  investigations  of  film  processing  kinetics.  The 
author  of  several  papers,  he  also  has  a  patent 
application  pending.  He  has  a  PhD  in  chemical 
engineering  from  the  University  of  Delaware. 


1966 


MARRIED:  William  R.  Nims  to  Christine  E. 
Hazlett  on  October  24,  1981  in  Winthrop,  MA. 
Mrs.  Nims  graduated  from  Katharine  Gibbs 
School. 

Joe  Acker  was  recently  promoted  to  plant 
manager  at  the  FMC  Corp.  plant  in  Nitro,  WV. 

Woody  Adams  is  now  vice  president  of 
Kleinschmidt  &  Dutting,  Pittsfield,  ME. 

Bill  Baker  serves  as  production  manager  at 
the  American  Hoechst  nylon  plant  located  in 
Manchester,  NH.  Says  Bill:  "My  primary  re- 
sponsibility is  providing  clean  towels  for  union 
stewards  to  cry  on." 

For  the  past  five  years  Brian  Belanger  has 
been  a  member  of  the  technical  staff  at  Mo- 
torola's Government  Electronics  Division  in 
Scottsdale,  AZ.  He  works  in  the  area  of  radar 
systems  design. 

Lynn  Biuckie  is  currently  project  manager 
for  the  design  and  installation  of  a  new  contin- 
uous heat  treating  line  for  the  Corporate  En- 
gineering Department  of  Bethlehem  Steel  in 
Bethlehem,  PA. 

Previously  with  Beecham  Products,  Rock- 
wood,  MI,  Paul  Castle  now  holds  the  post  of 
vice  president  and  general  manager  of  William 
C.  Meredith  Co.,  East  Point,  GA.  He  has  an 
MBA  from  Tuck  School  at  Dartmouth. 

Bob  Coates  is  employed  as  a  district  sales 
engineer  covering  the  southeast  from  Virginia 
to  Florida  for  the  Special  Products  Division  of 
The  Torrington  Company. 

Last  year,  after  14  years  with  Raytheon,  Jeff 
Cheyne  accepted  a  post  at  the  Foxboro  (MA) 
Co.,  where  he  is  involved  with  advanced  proc- 
ess automation  and  test. 

Jim  Cocci  continues  as  a  program  manager 
with  Sanders  Associates,  Nashua,  NH.  His  as- 
signment includes  management  of  the  subma- 
rine business  area  of  the  Special  Program  Di- 
vision, which  specializes  in  signal  exploitation 
systems  for  military  applications. 

Bill  Collentro  is  an  elected  town  meeting 
member  from  North  Falmouth,  MA.  Profes- 
sionally, he  serves  as  the  New  England  regional 
manager  of  Vaponics  in  Plymouth.  He  per- 
forms consulting  engineering  and  design  work 
for  water  purification  systems. 

Ron  ("The  Hawk")  Crump  writes:  "Went 
with  Combustion  Engineering  out  of  college, 
and  I'm  still  with  them."  During  his  career  he 
has  started  up  electrical  power  plants  in  the 
U.S.  and  overseas.  Now  he  is  a  project  man- 
ager at  the  home  office  in  Windsor,  CT. 

Sig  Dicker  holds  the  titles  of  principal  en- 
gineer in  the  Facilities  Engineering  Depart- 
ment and  facilities  program  manager  for  the 
Saab-Fairchild  340  Aircraft  Project  at  Fair- 
child-Republic  Co.,  Farmingdale,  NY.  He  and 
his  wife  are  the  founding  and  managing  part- 
ners in  Dicker  Associates  and  HD  Associates, 
"two  up-and-coming  related  companies  deal- 
ing with  real  estate  investment  and  property 
management." 

Al  DiPietro,  who  lives  in  a  passive  solar  home 
that  he  planned,  is  now  a  senior  construction 


APRIL  1982        33 


A  Better  Mousetrap? 

You  know  that  old  saw  about  a  better 
mousetrap?  Well.  Frederic  Stevens,  '61. 
and  his  Vantage  Computer  Systems  have 
definitely  come  up  with  a  better  one. 

Vantage,  a  small  but  growing  Hartford- 
area  firm,  designs  computer  programs  for 
some  of  the  newest  insurance  investment 
plans  of  insurers  such  as  Prudential.  John 
Hancock  and  New  England  Mutual.  Van- 
tage is  spearheading  software  for  the  in- 
dustry's new  "universal  life"  plan,  which 
allows  the  buyer  to  obtain  death  benefits 
as  part  of  a  high  yield  investment  pack- 
age. 

"Vantage  has  the  jump  on  all  of  its 
competitors  in  universal  life  program- 
ming," says  an  industry  executive.  "They 
have  no  peers." 

To  date,  some  31  insurers  have  bought 
Vantage-designed  computer  programs  for 
universal  life  plans.  Another  100  use  Van- 
tage programs  for  annuities,  recording  the 
payments  which  annuitants  make  into  the 
funds  they  plan  to  draw  upon  in  the  fu- 
ture, and  tracking  the  interest  earnings 
built  up  by  those  funds.  The  firm's  client 
list  has  been  growing  by  about  15  com- 
panies a  year. 

Vantage  was  started  in  1970  when  Rob- 


ert S.  Maltempo.  now  president,  and 
Frederic  Stevens,  executive  vice  presi- 
dent, left  jobs  at  Aetna  Life  &  Casualty 
and  pooled  their  $12,500  savings  to  stake 
their  new  venture.  Maltempo,  who  holds 
an  MBA  from  the  University  of  Con- 
necticut, became  Vantage's  chief  sales- 
man, while  Stevens,  with  a  degree  in 
physics  from  WPI  and  a  master's  in  com- 
puter science  from  the  Hartford  Graduate 
Center,  became  the  technical  expert. 

The  enterprising  pair  put  Vantage  into 
the  forefront  of  computer  programming 
design,  creating  systems  that  made  the  in- 
surers* in-house  systems  technically  ob- 
solete. Said  one  insurance  company  vice 
president  of  his  own  in-house  setup,  "As 
variations  on  annuity  products  began  to 
be  marketed,  the  turnaround  time  to  build 
them  into  the  system  became  greater  than 
the  traffic  could  bear.  We  found  that  the 
design  concepts  and  cost  advantages  we 
wanted  to  move  toward  were  already  em- 
bodied in  the  Vantage  system." 

The  bottom  line  for  Vantage?  Flour- 
ishing revenues,  leaping  from  $750,000  in 
1978  to  over  $4  million  in  1981;  and  a 
payroll  supporting  over  90  employees,  up 
from  just  12  in  1976.  In  fact,  senior  pro- 
grammers have  been  signing  on  at  a  rate 
of  three  a  week. 


engineer  at  Limerick  Nuclear  Generating  Sta- 
tion for  Bechtel  Power  Corporation.  He  is  lo- 
cated in  Boyertown.  PA. 

Gary  Dyckman  enjoys  his  new  post  as  man- 
ager of  projects  in  the  Boston  offices  of  Cygna 
Energy  Services,  which  provides  engineering 
services  to  the  electric  utility  industry.  In  a  little 
over  a  year  he's  helped  increase  the  Boston 
staff  from  35  to  135. 

Steve  Erhard  is  concerned  with  digital  hard- 
ware and  software  at  Fairbanks  Scales  in  St. 
Johnsbury,  VT.  In  his  spare  time  he  goes  win- 
ter camping  and  is  active  with  Big  Brothers  of 
America. 

Ralph  Fiore.  who  joined  Western  Electric. 
North  Andover.  MA,  after  graduation,  is  now 
a  department  chief.  His  group  supports  a  va- 
riety of  computer-based  systems  deployed 
throughout  the  Bell  System. 

Kit  Foster  has  been  employed  at  the  Naval 
Underwater  Systems  Center,  New  London,  CT, 
since  1966.  At  the  present  time,  he  is  a  systems 
engineer  for  the  Submarine  Integrated  Com- 
munications System  for  future  generation  sub- 
marines. At  home  in  Gales  Ferry,  he  is  treas- 
urer of  the  Volunteer  Fire  Company. 

Brendan  (ieelan  has  spent  his  career  to  date 
with  Lni Royal  (  hcmical.  where  he  is  currently 
group  leader  for  process  development  in  the 
New  Products  Department. 

Since  graduation.  .lohn  (iilberl  has  been  with 
Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  loday  he  heads  a 
group  of  quality  engineers  charged  with  up- 
dating quality  control  techniques  not  only  lor 
his  firm,  but  for  all  critical  parts  made  by  its 
suppliers  He  holds  a  Juris  Doctor  degree  from 
Western  New  England  C  ollege  School  of  Law 
and  IS  a  member  of  the  (  onnecticut  Bar. 


George  Grimmell  continues  with  the  Service 
Division  at  Bethlehem  Steels  Burns  Harbor 
plant  in  Indiana,  where  he's  been  employed 
since  1966.  Two  years  ago  he  was  promoted  to 
assistant  master  mechanic  of  the  hot  strip  mill. 

Ron  Hayden,  the  current  president  of  the 
Boston  Section  of  the  Instrument  Society  of 
America,  still  works  in  the  area  of  process  con- 
trol instrumentation.  For  the  past  five  years  he 
has  been  with  New  England  Controls,  Mans- 
field. MA.  a  firm  which  represents  Fisher  Con- 
trols and  other  companies. 

Bob  Holt,  who  has  three  marathons  to  his 
credit,  hopes  to  someday  run  a  "5()-miler."  He 
serves  as  senior  associate  with  Ocean  Data  Sys- 
tems Inc.,  Rockville,  MD.  The  firm  provides 
programming  analysis,  software  engineering, 
and  consulting  services  to  the  Navy  in  the  field 
of  sonar  performance  prediction  modeling. 

Phil  Hopkinson  still  holds  the  post  of  man- 
ager of  engineering  for  the  Specialty  Trans- 
former Department  at  GE  in  Fort  Wayne,  IN. 

Dave  Johnson  has  been  named  general  fore- 
man of  electronic  services  at  Armcos  Middle- 
town  (OH)  Works. 

After  more  than  three  years  as  assistant  su- 
perintendent of  schools-business  manager.  Ed- 
ward Kazanjian  has  resigned  from  the  Biller- 
ica.  MA,  school  system  to  take  a  post  in  private 
industry. 

Chuck  Knothe  is  a  system  development  proj- 
ect leader  for  du  Pont  in  Wilmington.  DE.  A 
couple  of  years  ago  he  received  his  JD  from 
Delaware  Law  School.  Having  been  admitted 
to  the  state  bar.  he  is  now  developing  a  private 
practice. 

Continuing  with  Niagara  Mohawk  Power 
Corp.,  Andy  Kudarauskas  now  holds  the  post 


of  supervisor  of  gas  distribution.  He  is  respon- 
sible for  all  natural  gas  construction  and  main- 
tenance. 

Recently  Grant  Maier  was  promoted  to  pro- 
ject engineer  at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft,  where 
he  has  been  employed  since  graduation.  He  is 
responsible  for  heat  transfer,  cooling,  and  per- 
formance optimization  important  to  the  suc- 
cess of  the  company's  advanced  gas  turbine 
engines.  While  under  contract  with  the  FAA, 
he  co-authored  a  book  on  design  and  testing 
of  anti-icing  systems  for  turbine  engines. 

Jim  Maroney  serves  as  president  and  treas- 
urer of  Francis  H.  Maroney,  Inc.,  mechanical 
contractors.  He  is  also  president  of  the  Kiwanis 
Club  in  Haverhill.  MA. 

Andy  Moran.  who  during  his  career  in  public 
administration  has  worked  for  the  courts,  po- 
lice, and  district  attorney,  is  now  director  of 
budget  and  analysis  for  the  Public  Utilities 
Commission  in  San  Francisco. 

Dick  Nelson's  company.  Nelson  Oil  &  Gas 
Co.,  is  located  in  Shreveport,  La.  His  business 
is  concerned  with  leasing,  drilling  and  produc- 
ing oil  and  gas  properties  in  North  Louisiana 
and  East  Texas.  Dick  operates  two  rigs  capable 
of  depths  from  5000  to  12,000  ft. 

Stu  Nelson  continues  as  principal  in  his  man- 
ufacturers' representative  business,  Nelson- 
Scribner  Associates,  Norwood,  MA. 

Currently,  Ray  O'Connell,  Jr.  serves  as  pro- 
ject manager  for  displays  in  the  ultrasound  im- 
aging group  at  Hewlett-Packard,  where  he  has 
been  employed  since  graduation.  He  holds  an 
MBA  from  Northeastern  University  and  lives 
in  Andover.  MA. 

For  the  past  three  years  Ted  Pero  has  been 
coordinating  the  installation  of  Pratt  &  Whit- 
ney Aircraft  jet  engines  with  Boeing,  Douglas. 
Lockheed  and  Airbus.  "This  has  taken  me  from 
San  Diego  to  France."  He  and  his  family  reside 
in  Somers,  CT. 

At  the  present  time,  Paul  Peterson  holds  the 
post  of  manager  of  the  field  support  staff  for 
Software  AG  of  North  America.  A  resident  of 
Evergreen,  CO,  Peterson  writes:  "Our  house 
is  located  near  the  top  of  a  mountain  at  8,400 
feet  above  sea  level.  The  air  is  thin,  but  the 
fishing,  hunting  and  skiing  are  excellent!" 

Jay  Segal  has  been  with  Rosenman  Colin 
Freund  Lewis  &  Cohen  in  mid-town  Manhat- 
tan since  graduating  from  St.  John's  University 
Law  School.  He  also  holds  an  MBA  degree 
from  Long  Island  University. 

Bob  Shaw  owns  and  operates  a  small  used 
car  business  in  Worcester. 

Tom  Shepelrich  holds  the  position  of  chief 
estimator  at  J. A.  Jones  Construction  Co.  and 
its  sister  company.  Metric  Constructors. 

Robert  Sinuc  is  now  the  production  section 
manufacturing  manager  for  the  GE  Silicone 
Product  Division,  which  he  says  concentrates 
on  high  quality  Silly  Putty. 

Currently.  Pete  Sommer.  a  graduate  of 
American  University  Law  School,  is  in  private 
practice  specializing  in  patent,  trademark, 
copyright  and  unfair  competition  law  in  Buf- 
falo, NY.  He  has  passed  the  Patent  Office  bar 
exam  and  the  New  York  State  bar  exam,  and 
has  been  admitted  to.  among  others,  the  U.S. 
Supreme  Court  and  several  Courts  of  Appeals. 

Dave  Stone,  a  plastics  processing  engineer  at 
Rohm  and  Haas  Co.,  Bristol.  PA.  specializes 
in  the  technical  service  requirements  for  injec- 
tion molding  markets  related  to  the  company's 
acrylic  and  soda  bottle  resins. 


34        WPI  JOURNAL 


Bob  Thompson  now  heads  an  18-man  Civil 
and  Structural  Engineering  Branch  for  the 
Chesapeake  Division  of  the  Naval  Facilities 
Engineering  Command.  He  has  been  em- 
ployed by  the  Navy  in  Washington,  DC,  area 
in  several  different  capacities  since  graduating 
from  WPI. 

Jerry  Toupin  serves  as  plant  manager  for  the 
Torrington  Division  of  Ingersoll-Rand  Co.  at 
the  firm's  bearings  plant  in  Cairo,  GA.  Married 
and  the  father  of  two  daughters,  he  enjoys  skiing, 
sailing  and  golf. 

"Graduate  work  at  Penn  State  led  to  an  MS 
and  PhD  in  biophysics,  as  well  as  five  years  of 
excellent  golf  and  football  mania,"  reports  Doug 
Vizard.  Currently  he  is  assistant  physicist  and 
assistant  professor  of  biophysics  at  the  M.D. 
Anderson  Hospital  and  Tumor  Institute  and  at 
the  University  of  Texas  Graduate  School  of 
Biomedical  Sciences  in  Houston. 

Leonard  Weckel  is  employed  by  Spotts,  Ste- 
vens, and  McCoy,  a  consulting  engineering  firm 
in  Wyomissing,  PA. 

At  the  present  time,  Joe  Whalen  holds  the 
position  of  senior  program  director  of  an  ASW 
technology  group  in  ORI's  Strategic  Systems 
Division.  He  has  a  PhD  in  physics  from  the 
University  of  Florida. 

Malcolm  White,  who  married  his  wife,  Nancy, 
two  years  ago,  enjoys  living  by  the  ocean  in 
Marblehead,  MA.  He  continues  as  a  lieutenant 
commander  in  the  Naval  Reserve,  Profession- 
ally he  is  a  supervisor  of  a  pilot  coating  oper- 
ation for  Polaroid  in  Cambridge. 

Bob  Wilson  serves  as  a  process  engineer  at 
Arwood  Corp.,  Tilton,  NH.  The  firm  produces 
aluminum,  copper  and  magnesium  base  in- 
vestment castings  for  aerospace  and  commer- 
ical  markets. 

J.K.  Wright  holds  the  position  of  national 
marketing  manager  of  food  phosphates  at 
Stauffer  Chemical  Company  and  recently  cel- 
ebrated his  15th  anniversary  with  the  firm. 

Joe  Wright  writes:  "Our  family  is  heavily 
involved  in  competitive,  long-range  shooting." 
He  is  second  in  command  of  the  Massachusetts  • 
shooting  organization,  the  IHMSA.  For  the  past 
six  years  he  has  been  chief  engineer  of  ball 
valves  at  Jamesbury  Corp.,  Worcester. 


1967 


Roger  Binkerd  won  first  place  in  a  recent  Na- 
tional BMW  Motorcycle  Contest.  As  a  result, 
Roger  and  his  wife,  Janet,  spent  23  days  last 
summer  touring  in  Europe  through  the  Alps 
on  a  motorcycle.  Roger  is  still  with  Aquatec, 
Inc.  in  South  Burlington,  VT. 

Lt.  Col.  David  Heebner,  his  wife,  Bonnie, 
and  children,  Heather  and  Jason,  are  looking 
forward  to  returning  to  the  States  this  summer 
after  spending  three  years  with  the  U.S.  Army 
in  a  small  town  near  Frankfurt,  Germany. 

Denis  McQuillen  was  the  author  of  "Design 
and  Testing  of  Pharmaceutical  Sterile  Rooms" 
which  appeared  in  the  November  issue  of  Phar- 
maceutical Technology.  He  is  vice  president  of 
corp)orate  engineering  at  Gulf  &  Western  Corp.. 
New  York  City.  Most  recently  he  was  senior 
project  manager  for  E.R.  Squibb  &  Sons.  He 
holds  an  MSME  from  WPI,  as  well  as  a  BS, 
and  formerly  served  as  a  graduate  assistant  at 
Alden  Research  Labs.  A  member  of  the  Amer- 
ican Society  of  Heating,  Refrigerating  and  Air- 


Conditioning  Engineers  and  the  American  So- 
ciety of  Medical  Engineers,  his  principal  re- 
search interest  is  the  design  and  testing  of  ster- 
ile rooms. 


1968 


Robert  Najemy,  Jr.  is  director  of  the  Helian- 
thos  Yoga  Union  in  Athens,  Greece. 

Dr.  Louis  Strong  was  recently  appointed  by 
Harvard  University  as  director  of  the  Gordon 
McKay  Laboratory  and  assistant  director  of  the 
Division  of  Applied  Science.  Previously,  he  was 
research  scientist  at  MIT.  He  holds  degrees 
from  Brown  and  the  University  of  Michigan, 
as  well  as  from  WPI. 


1969 


Currently  Leslie  Hatch  serves  as  group  director 
of  environmental  studies  at  Engineering-Sci- 
ence, Inc.,  Atlanta,  GA. 


1970 


BORN:  to  Sally  and  Frank  Vernile  a  daughter. 
Heather  Ann,  on  September  25,  1981.  The 
Verniles  still  live  in  East  Hartford,  CT,  with 
their  two-year-old  daughter,  Sarah  Marie. 

The  J.  Geils  Band  performed  to  a  standing 
room  only  audience  at  E.M.  Loews  Center  for 
the  Performing  Arts  in  Worcester  in  Decem- 
ber. One  reviewer  wrote  that  the  performance 
"rivaled  The  Rolling  Stones'  guerrilla  concert 
held  last  fall  at  Sir  Morgan's  Cove." 

James  George  is  a  process  control  engineer 
at  General  Electric  Plastics  in  Selkirk,  NY. 

Daniel  Lewis  works  as  a  development  engi- 
neer at  Fiber  Industries,  Florence,  SC. 

Howard  Norcross  has  been  appointed  to  a 
three-year  term  on  the  town  finance  committee 
in  Chatham,  MA.  A  native  of  Chatham,  he  is 
a  partner  with  his  father  in  C.E.  Norcross  and 
Son,  a  building  firm.  He  has  an  MBA  from 
Purdue  University.  Before  returning  to  his  home 
town  some  ten  years  ago,  he  worked  for  Mobil 
Oil  in  New  York  City. 


1971 


Joseph  Bellino  holds  the  post  of  program  man- 
ager of  automation  systems  at  GE  in  Bridge- 
port, CT. 

Todd  Benjamin  serves  as  manager  of  gas  tur- 
bine service  at  GE  in  Schenectady,  NY.  He 
and  Wendy  have  two  children  and  live  in  Sco- 
tia. 

George  Block,  Jr.  has  been  promoted  to  di- 
rector of  engineering  at  New  Haven  (CT)  Water 
Co.  He  joined  the  utility  in  1971  and  was  pre- 
viously deputy  director  of  engineering.  His  new 
responsibility  includes  management  of  the 
company's  long-range  engineering  planning  and 
capital  improvements  program,  which  amounted 
to  more  than  $11  million  in  1980.  The  past 
president  of  the  Connecticut  Society  of  Profes- 
sional Engineers,  Block  is  a  registered  profes- 
sional engineer  in  Connecticut.  He  belongs  to 


the  American  Water  Works  Association  and 
the  Connecticut  Water  Works  Association, 
whose  conservation  committee  he  chairs.  He 
is  president  of  the  Jaycees  in  Southington,  CT, 
where  he  lives  with  his  wife,  Bethany,  and  two 
daughters. 

Joseph  Carter,  MD,  continues  with  the  Eu- 
clid Clinic  Foundation,  Euclid,  OH. 

Greg  Dickson  is  involved  with  adult  soccer, 
men's  slowpitch  softball,  volleyball,  rowing, 
running  and  hunting.  He  is  still  with  Dow 
Chemical  in  Midland,  MI. 

Dr.  Baljit  Gambhir  works  for  Shell  Oil  Co., 
Houston. 

Leo  Gillis,  Jr.,  a  registered  professional  en- 
gineer with  the  New  England  Power  Service 
Company,  Westboro,  MA,  is  a  member  of  the 
N.E.  Power  Golf  League. 
Sailing,  skiing,  and  traveling  are  some  of  the 
pastimes  of  Michael  Gitlen,  an  employee  of 
Kaman  Corporation,  Bloomfield,  CT.  He  has 
a  CPA,  an  MBA  and  an  MS  in  accounting. 

William  Helliwell,  Jr.  continues  with  Riley 
Stoker  in  Worcester.  He  received  his  MBA 
from  the  University  of  Denver.  The  Helliwells 
have  one  child,  Allison,  2. 

Bhagat  Indravadan  is  still  with  Corrosion 
Control  Services  in  Bombay,  India.  He  has  an 
MBA  in  management  information  systems,  is 
married,  and  the  father  of  one.  Tennis  and 
swimming  are  two  of  his  favorite  activities. 

Philip  Johnson  has  returned  from  Bermuda 
where  he  attended  an  Optical  Manufacturers 
Association  meeting.  He  works  for  Gentex 
Corp.  in  Dudley,  MA. 

Stephen  Katz  of  Intel  Corp.  recently  facili- 
tated WPI's  receiving  a  complete  Intellec  floppy- 
disc  based  computer  system  for  developing 
software  and  testing  microprocessor  designs 
from  Intel,  which  is  located  in  Santa  Clara, 
CA.  The  system  is  worth  over  $20,000  and  will 
be  available  to  all  WPI  students. 

Coaching  soccer,  chemical  safety  and  travel 
are  some  of  the  interests  of  Dr.  James  Kauf- 
man of  the  Science  Division  at  Curry  College, 
Milton,  MA, 

Myles  Kleper,  who  has  an  MBA  from  North- 
eastern, works  for  Abcor  in  Wilmington,  MA. 

Mark  Koretz  is  employed  at  Advanced  Mi- 
cro Devices,  Burlington,  MA.  He  earned  his 
MBA  at  Northeastern  University. 

Joseph  Laptewicz's  pastimes  include  sailing, 
golf  and  travel,  as  well  as  running.  He  has  a 
baby  son,  Nicholas,  and  works  for  Pfizer  in 
Groton,  CT. 

Currently,  Bruce  Leffingwell  is  employed  by 
Olin  Corp.  of  New  Haven.  He  and  his  wife, 
Karen,  live  in  Wilton  and  have  three  children. 
After  hours  he  enjoys  woodworking. 

Bill  Light  holds  an  MS  and  PhD  from  the 
University  of  California  at  Berkeley.  He  con- 
tinues with  Abcor,  Wilmington,  MA. 

Jay  Linden  of  Cape  Cove  Corp.,  Rotonda 
West,  FL,  reports  that  his  interests  lie  with 
racquetball,  softball,  football,  coaching  and  the 
Tampa  Bay  Bucs.  He  is  a  professional  civil 
engineer. 

Richard  Lisauskas  works  for  Texas  Instru- 
ments in  Attleboro,  MA.  He  has  a  master's  in 
ceramics  from  MIT  and  is  now  studying  for  his 
MBA  at  Bryant. 

Sailing  and  camping  are  some  of  Ed  Lowe's 
leisure  time  activities.  He  continues  with  GE 
in  Schenectady.  He  and  Judy  have  a  daughter, 
Beth,  3. 

John  Marino  and  his  wife,  Patricia,  have  a 


APRIL  1982        35 


baby  daughter.  Lisa.  Marino  is  with  UNC  Re- 
sources in  the  Naval  Products  Division  at  Un- 
casviile.  CT. 

Richard  Mattes  belongs  to  the  Hanover  So- 
ciables Club  and  participates  in  model  ship- 
building, tennis  and  "most  other  sports."  Lo- 
cated in  Hanover.  MA.  he  is  employed  at  New 
England  Telephone  in  Boston. 

Thomas  Mirarchi.  who  has  an  MBA  from 
RPL  works  at  American  Optical  Corp..  Fra- 
mingham,  MA.  He  and  Ellen  were  married  last 
July. 

Building  passive  solar  houses  is  one  of  the 
pastimes  of  John  Moore  lU.  a  resident  of  Men- 
dota  Heights.  MN.  He  is  employed  at  MTS 
Systems  Corp..  Minneapolis. 

Andy  Muir,  Jr.  serves  as  a  sales  represent- 
ative for  Buffalo  Forge  Company.  Kansas  City. 
MO.  After  hours  he  enjoys  golf,  skiing  and 
tennis. 

The  Worcester  Art  Museum,  classical  music 
and  carpentry  are  some  of  the  interests  of  Fred- 


eric Mulligan,  who  is  with  Cutler  Associates. 

John  .Niestemski  continues  with  General 
Electric  in  Syracuse.  NY. 

Gerald  Orre  is  president  of  Audio  Visual 
Service  Co.,  Inc.,  Worcester.  He  serves  as  a 
captain  with  the  U.S.A.R.  and  enjoys  scuba 
diving. 

"My  major  activity  seems  to  be  commuting 
to  and  from  work."  writes  Robert  Payne.  He 
lives  in  Solon.  OH.  and  commutes  to  Standard 
Oil  in  Cleveland.  He  also  reports  that  he  shov- 
els plenty  of  snow  and  is  interested  in  piano 
and  voice,  as  well  as  basketball  and  history. 

Robert  Pettit  works  for  Doron  Precision  Sys- 
tems. Binghamton.  NY.  He  is  active  with  his 
church,  foster  parents  program  and  model  rail- 
roading. 

John  Plonsky  scouts  football  for  his  local  high 
school.  He  also  belongs  to  the  American  Hel- 
icopter Society.  Professionally,  he  is  with  the 
Sikorsky  Aircraft  Division  of  UTC.  He  has  an 
MBA. 


Cdr.  Peter  Kudless,  ''>'>  in;^li!)  receiving  colors  from  Cdr.  Kenneth  Olsen.  '63  (left). 


Kudless  Takes 
Seabee  Command 


When  the  colors  were  passed  in  the  im- 
pressive Seabee  change-of-command  cer- 
emony held  at  the  Naval  Air  Engineering 
Center  (NAEC)  in  Lakehurst.  New  Jer- 
sey last  September,  they  passed  from  one 
WPI  alumnus  to  another.  Cdr.  Peter  J. 
Kudless,  '66.  Civil  Engineer  Corps,  USNR- 
R.  received  the  colors  and  the  command 
of  762  officers  and  men  of  Reserve  Naval 
Mobile  Construction  Battalion  21  from 
Cdr.  Kenneth  Olsen,  '6.1. 

During  the  ceremony,  outgoing  Cdr. 
Olsen  was  praised  by  his  superiors  for  his 
achievements  and  leadership  durmg  the 
past  two  years  as  commanding  officer.  In- 


coming Cdr.  Kudless  then  took  command 
of  the  largest  Navy  activity  at  NAEC:  Re- 
serve Naval  Mobile  Construction  Battal- 
ion 21. 

Previously,  Cdr.  Kudless  served  with 
the  Public  Works  Department  at  Perth 
Amboy,  New  Jersey  and  held  various  bil- 
lets with  RNMCB-13.  Among  his  many 
decorations  are  the  Navy  Commendation 
Medal  with  Combat  "V"  Meritorious  Unit 
Commendation,  Vietnam  Service  Medal 
with  Silver  Star  and  the  Vietnam  Cam- 
paign Medal. 

In  civilian  life,  Kudless,  a  professional 
engineer,  serves  as  the  Project  Con- 
struction Manager  at  the  Hope  Creek 
(ienerating  Station  in  Salem  County  for 
New  Jersey  Public  Service  Electric  and 
Gas.  Ken  Olsen  is  a  patent  attorney  for 
Schlumberger  Limited.  Ridgefield,  CT. 


Playing  and  teaching  jazz  music  are  pastimes 
for  Bob  Sinicrope.  He  is  with  Milton  Academy. 
Milton,  MA. 

Donald  Swartz,  a  doctor  of  chiropractic,  has 
opened  his  practice  on  Main  Street  in  Newport, 
NH.  He  is  a  graduate  of  the  National  Chiro- 
practic College  in  Lombard.  IL.  one  of  the 
country's  few  accredited  chiropractic  colleges. 
He  holds  a  BS  degree  from  the  University  of 
Massachusetts,  where  he  spent  four  years  doing 
graduate  research  in  genetics. 

Robert  Trachiniowicz  works  for  Ebasco 
Services  in  Houston  and  is  married  and  the 
father  of  Timothy,  4,  and  Matthew,  2. 

Michael  Torek,  often  involved  with  golf, 
swimming  and  home  projects,  is  with  Mon- 
santo in  Lima,  OH. 

Last  year  William  Verrelli  received  his  BA 
in  English  at  Framingham  State  College.  He 
works  for  Dennison  Mfg.  Co..  Framingham. 
MA.  Activities  include  running,  chess,  wine 
collecting  and  bowling. 

Francis  Wehner,  Jr.  continues  with  General 
Dynamics  Electric  Boat  Division,  Groton,  CT. 

Thomas  Werb,  also  with  Electric  Boat,  re- 
sides in  Warwick,  RI,  with  his  wife,  Marsha, 
and  daughters,  Jennifer  and  Allison.  He  enjoys 
racquetball  and  model  trains. 

Robert  WooUacott  works  for  Curjtis  1000,  Inc., 
Smyrna,  GA.  He  holds  an  MBA  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  Connecticut. 


1972 


Thomas  Huard  is  employed  as  a  technical  rep- 
resentative at  Waters  Associates,  Inc.,  Mil- 
ford,  MA. 


1973 


BORN:  to  Janice  and  Robert  J.  Zawada  their 
second  daughter,  Rachel  Elizabeth,  on  Janu- 
ary 7,  1982.  Bob  is  currently  an  assistant  ac- 
tuary in  the  Pension  Trust  Department  at  Sun 
Life  of  Canada's  U.S.  headquarters  in  Welles- 
ley,  MA.  He  and  his  family  reside  in  Ashland. 

William  Catlow  holds  the  post  of  manager 
of  bucket  and  rotor  development  at  General 
Electric  in  Fitchburg,  MA. 

Leon  Home  is  an  analyst  at  Sonalysts,  Inc., 
Waterford,  CT. 

Recently  Warren  Smith  accepted  a  post  with 
Atlas  Supply  Company  in  Springfield,  NJ.  He 
specifies  and  tests  tires,  batteries  and  other  au- 
tomotive replacement  parts. 


1974 


Alden  Bianchi  has  become  an  associate  with 
the  Worcester  law  firm  of  Gilbert  &  Coblcntz. 
He  holds  degrees  from  Suffolk  University  Law 
School  and  the  Georgetown  University  Law 
Center.  Previously  he  practiced  in  Chicago  and 
Washington,  DC,  and  served  as  an  assistant 
counsel  to  the  U.S.  Senate  Committee  on  For- 
eign Relations.  He  specializes  in  lax  and  re- 
lated business  law. 

Mehrdad  Habib  serves  as  a  structural  de- 
signer at  Stone  &  Webster  in  Boston. 

Lt.    Linda   W(M)dward,   who   was  commis- 


36        WP!  JOURNAL 


sioned  a  2/Lt.  in  the  USAF  on  December  3rd, 
is  now  attending  the  University  of  Missouri  and 
studying  for  her  EE  degree. 


1975 


MARRIED:  Toby  Reitzen  and  Jim  Sachen  in 
Denver,  CO.  on  June  27,  1981.  The  bride,  who 
holds  a  master's  degree  in  chemical  engineer- 
ing from  MIT,  works  as  a  reservoir  engineer 
for  Mobil  in  Denver.  The  groom,  a  planning 
analyst,  also  is  employed  at  Mobil  and  has  de- 
grees in  physics  and  petroleum  engineering  from 
UCLA  and  Louisiana  State  University.  Vicki 
Cowart  was  an  attendant  at  the  wedding. 

BORN:  to  Barbara  and  Richard  Newhouse  a 
daughter,  Jessica  Marie,  December  29,  1981. 
.  .  .  Barbara  and  Charles  Riedel  a  son,  Michael 
Charles,  on  March  23,  1981.  Riedel  serves  as 
a  traffic  engineer  for  the  New  York  State  De- 
partment of  Transportation,  where,  under  a 
federal  grant,  he  wrote  the  department's  Traffic 
Signal  Installation  Manual. 

After  a  year  in  England  with  Esso  Engi- 
neering, John  and  Virginia  Giordano  Fitz- 
Patrick  were  looking  forward  to  a  visit  to  the 
States  over  Christmas.  Ginny  writes:  "We're 
really  enjoying  being  so  close  to  Europe.  Our 
plans  are  to  ski  in  Switzerland  this  winter.  If 
that  goes  smoothly  with  the  two  children,  we'll 
try  to  see  as  much  of  Europe  as  possible  before 
returning  to  the  U.S.  next  fall." 

Last  year  William  Kelly  received  his  PhD  in 
chemistry  from  Dartmouth  College.  His  thesis 
was  entitled:  "Conformational  Studies  of  H-F 
and  C-F  Spin-Spin  Couphng."  Currently  he  has 
a  postdoctoral  post  at  Purdue  University  where 
he  is  pursuing  further  studies. 


1976 


MARRIED:  Stephan  R.  Divoll  to  Michele  E. 
Naujalis  recently  in  Taunton,  MA.  Mrs.  Di-- 
voll,  a  rehabilitation  counselor  at  Paul  A.  Dever 


State  School,  received  her  degree  in  psychol- 
ogy from  Southeastern  Massachusetts  Uni- 
versity. The  groom  is  employed  by  Texas  In- 
struments, Inc.,  Attleboro,  MA.  .  .  .  John 
Kowalchuk  III  and  Dianne  Budney  on  October 
9,  1981  in  Sutton,  MA.  The  bride  is  a  man- 
agement consultant  in  EDP  for  Arthur  Young 
&  Co.,  Worcester.  She  graduated  from  Holy 
Family  College,  Philadelphia,  and  Worcester 
State  College.  Her  husband  is  a  communica- 
tions engineering  consultant  for  Mitre,  Bed- 
ford. MA. 

Kent  Baschwitz  is  now  a  senior  sales  engineer 
at  Mobil  Oil  Corporation,  Special  Products 
Department,  Scarsdale,  NY. 

Jeremy  Brown  has  been  promoted  to  direc- 
tor of  group  pension  product  development  at 
State  Mutual  in  Worcester.  In  1980  he  received 
the  fellow  of  the  Society  of  Actuaries  (FSA) 
professional  designation.  He  joined  State  Mu- 
tual as  an  actuarial  assistant  in  1976.  Two  years 
ago  he  was  promoted  to  assistant  actuary. 

Gary  Helmstetter  serves  as  a  project  leader 
at  Redac,  Littleton,  MA. 


1977 


Christopher  Baker  is  with  Andrews  &  Clark  in 
Nashua,  NH. 

Paul  Cullen  serves  as  a  consultant  in  robotics 
at  GE  in  Schenectady. 

Bill  Cunningham  recently  returned  from  an 
18-day  trip  to  Japan  to  investigate  the  Japanese 
computer  industry  for  Pactel.  "I  arrived  in  the 
middle  of  a  holiday  and  industry  was  totally 
closed  down  for  several  days,"  he  reports.  He 
spent  his  unexpected  free  time  sightseeing  and 
getting  a  taste  of  Japanese  culture.  When  not 
traveling  or  skiing  ("Snow  is  great  up  north"). 
Bill  attends  the  Tuck  School  at  Dartmouth. 

Brian  Kisiel  continues  as  a  technical  spe- 
cialist for  Betz  Laboratories.  He  and  wife  Donna 
are  located  in  North  Hampton,  NH. 

William  Lee  holds  the  position  of  a  program- 
mer-analyst at  McFann-Gray  &  Assoc,  San 
Antonio,  TX. 


Tony  Theoharides  has  been  commissioned  a 
captain  in  the  Army's  Medical  Service  Corps. 
Recently  he  received  his  PhD  at  Clark  Uni- 
versity. 


1978 


MARRIED:  Robert  A.  DeBoalt  to  Patti-anne 
Madden  on  May  22,  1981  in  Middleton,  MA. 
The  bride  graduated  from  Burdett  Business 
School,  Boston,  and  is  employed  in  the  Adop- 
tion Unit  of  the  State  Department  of  Social 
Services.  Her  husband  is  with  Varian  Beverly, 
Beverly,  MA.  .  .  .  Thomas  J.  Dow  and  Carolyn 
B.  Colby  on  October  11,  1981  in  Swampscott, 
MA.  Mrs.  Dow,  a  musician  and  flute  instruc- 
tor, graduated  from  Ithaca  College  and  Boston 
University.  The  groom  teaches  at  Saugus  High 
School. 

Rick  Diamond,  who  has  been  with  Fafnir 
Bearing  for  nearly  four  years,  was  recently  pro- 
moted to  shipping  center  manager  of  the  firm's 
Pulaski,  TN,  plant. 

Peter  Hayden  is  staff  manager  of  marketing 
at  AT&T  Long  Lines,  Bedminster,  NJ. 

Russell  Warnock  is  currently  an  engineer  of- 
ficer at  Picatinny  Arsenal  in  Dover,  NJ.  An 
officer  with  the  U.S.  Army  Corps  of  Engineers 
since  graduation,  he  will  be  released  from  ac- 
tive duty  in  June. 


1979 


Paul  Blackmer  is  an  industrial  engineer  with 
GE  in  Utica,  NY. 

William  Donoghue  works  as  an  electrical  de- 
sign engineer  for  Hamilton  Standard  in  Wind- 
sor Locks,  CT. 

Thom  Hammond  serves  as  a  sales  engineer 
for  the  Masoneilan  Division  of  McGraw  Edi- 
son Co.,  Norwood,  MA.  "Recently  finished  a 
business  related  tour  of  the  U.S.  Total  time  on 
the  road:  eight  months." 

In  January  John  Mortareili  and  his  wife.  Dr. 
Elizabeth  Smola,  both  affiliated  with  the  Stop 
It  group  hoping  to  discourage  the  building  of 
a  hazardous  waste  treatment  plant  in  Warren, 
MA,  spoke  before  a  group  of  concerned  citi- 
zens in  Wales,  MA.  Mortareili  holds  a  BS  in 
physics  from  the  University  of  Massachusetts, 
Amherst;  a  master's  in  math  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Connecticut,  Storrs;  and  a  master's  in 
biomedical  engineering  from  WPI. 

Donald  Patten  works  as  a  process  supervisor 
at  Procter  &  Gamble  Mfg.  Co.,  Quincy,  MA. 


1980 


MARRIED:  William  P.  Durkin  to  Barbara  C. 
Strahan  in  Arlington,  MA.  on  October  14.  1981. 
Mrs.  Durkin  has  a  degree  in  computer  infor- 
mation systems  from  Bentley  College.  The 
groom  serves  as  a  mechanical  engineer  at  The 
Foxboro  Company.  .  .  .  Arthur  J.  Flagg  III 
and  Maureen  F.  Haggerty  in  Worcester  on  Sep- 
tember 11,  1981.  Mrs.  Flagg  attended  Worces- 
ter State  College  and  is  a  manager  at  landoli's 
Food  Village.  The  bridegroom  did  graduate 
work  at  Northeastern  University  and  is  cur- 
rently with  GTE  Products  Corps.,  Needham, 


APRIL  1982        37 


neer  at  E.D.S.  Nuclear,  a  subsidiary  of  Impell 
Corp.,  San  Francisco. 

Ethan  Luce  is  employed  as  a  design  analysis 
engineer  at  Sikorsky  Aircraft,  Stratford,  CT. 

Brian  McLane  works  as  a  design  engineer  at 
Lexidata  Corporation  in  Billerica.  MA. 

Jennifer  Pollard  is  an  assistant  civil  engineer 
for  the  New  York  State  Dept.  of  Transporta- 
tion. 

Stephen  Superson  is  a  design  engineer  for 
Teledyne  Engineering  Services,  Waltham,  MA. 

Gary  Sylvestre  serves  as  a  project  manager 
at  Barclay's  American  Business  Credit,  Inc., 
East  Hartford,  CT. 

Jeffrey  Wakefield  is  product  manager  at 
Data  Terminal  Systems,  Maynard,  MA. 


1979 


MARRIED:  Gary  Doyle  and  Janet  Stark  last 
September.  Both  are  senior  associate  engi- 
neers at  IBM  in  Essex  Junction,  VT.  .  .  .  Earl 
B.  Ingham  and  Cheryl  L.  Nugent  on  January 
9,  1982  in  Granby,  MA.  The  bride,  an 
ophthalmic  technician  for  Dr.  Robert  Dono- 
hue,  graduated  from  Holyoke  Community  Col- 
lege. Earl  is  employed  by  Aetna  Life  and  Cas- 
ualty Co.,  Springfield,  MA.  .  .  .  George  R. 
Tompsett,  III,  and  Carla  Ann  Ranney  in  Broad 
Brook,  CT,  on  April  24,  1982.  Mrs.  Tompsett 
graduated  from  Windsor  Locks  High  School 
and  is  an  operations  clerk  for  Hamilton  Stan- 
dard Division  of  United  Technologies,  Wind- 
sor Locks,  CT.  George  is  a  process  and  meth- 
ods engineer  at  Hamilton  Standard. 

BORN:  to  Andrea  and  William  R.  Herman 
a  son,  Bryan  William,  on  March  31,  1981.  Her- 
man is  now  a  senior  staff  member  at  Arthur 
Andersen  Company,  Hartford,  CT. 

Jeff  Boike  continues  as  a  manufacturing 
process  engineer  at  UOP  in  McCook,  IL.  He 
and  his  wife,  Mary  Lynn,  reside  in  Hinsdale. 

Glenn  Braunstein  holds  the  post  of  devel- 
opment engineer  at  Goodyear  Tire  &  Rubber 
Co.,  Akron,  OH. 

John  Donahue  is  employed  as  an  electric 
studies  engineer  at  Niagara  Mohawk  Power 
Company,  Syracuse,  NY. 

Donna  Graves  is  systems  marketing  manager 
at  Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Merrimack,  NH. 

Bruce  Jenket,  who  was  promoted  to  It.j.g. 
last  November,  has  returned  from  deployment 
in  which  he  visited  Japan,  Guam,  Hong  Kong 
and  the  Philippines.  Currently  he  is  an  assistant 
in  the  Reactor  Controls  Division  of  the  U.S. 
Navy,  stationed  at  Pearl  Harbor. 

Donald  Larson  works  as  a  product  marketing 
specialist  at  GCA  Corporation.  He  is  located 
in  Bedford,  MA. 

Jeff  Mills  designs  oil  refineries  for  UOP,  Inc. 
He  resides  near  Chicago. 

Gary  Pearson  serves  as  New  England  sales 
representative  for  Priam  Corporation  of  Need- 
ham,  MA. 

Ronald  Roth  is  employed  as  a  product  en- 
gineer at  Honeywell  in  Lexington,  MA. 

Lt.  Ja.son  Tuell  serves  as  a  numerical  pre- 
diction meteorologist  for  the  USAF  at  Offutt 
AFB,  NE. 

George  Wespl  continues  as  an  associate  en- 
gineer at  Riley  Stoker  Corp.,  Worcester. 

Pri.scilla  Young  is  studying  for  her  master's 
degree  in  environmental  engineering  at  Cor- 
nell University. 


1980 


MARRIED:  Robert  W.  Dreyfoos  and  Martine 
B.  Vray  in  Worcester  on  September  26,  1981. 
Mrs.  Dreyfoos,  a  graduate  of  Worcester  State 
College,  is  an  inspector  for  the  Palm  Beach 
(FL)  County  Health  Department.  He  is  a  de- 
sign engineer  for  Photo  Electronics  Corp.,  West 
Palm  Beach. 

Mihran  Aroian  is  a  research  technician  at 
WPI. 

Theodore  Crowley  holds  the  post  of  manager 
of  language  products  at  C.S.P.  Inc.,  Billerica, 
MA. 

David  Fox  works  as  a  software  engineer  at 
Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Merrimack,  NH. 

Currently,  Richard  Goldman  is  a  student  at 
the  University  of  Connecticut  School  of  Law 
in  West  Hartford. 

Michael  Herberg  continues  with  GE  in  Sche- 
nectady. Earlier  he  had  been  assigned  to  the 
Waterford  plant. 

Arthur  Huggard,  process  engineer  at  Mon- 
santo Plastics  &  Resins,  Springfield,  MA,  re- 
cently received  the  Monsanto  Employee 
Achievement  Award. 

Stephen  Kmiotek  is  a  chemical  engineer  at 
Cabot  Corp.  He  is  located  in  Billerica,  MA. 

Kenneth  Mandile  holds  the  position  of  vice 
president  at  J.B.M.  Swiss  Screw  Co.,  Inc., 
Waltham,  MA. 

John  Roche,  still  with  Micro  Networks,  is 
now  thin-film  engineering  supervisor  at  the 
Worcester  firm. 

Doreen  Savieira  holds  the  post  of  planning 
engineer  at  Western  Electric  Co.,  North  An- 
dover,  MA. 

Jeffrey  Smits  continues  as  a  member  of  the 
technical  staff  at  Bell  Labs  in  Holmdel,  NJ. 

Mike  Stone  continues  as  associate  editor  of 
Car  &  Driver's  Buyers  Guide  and  Cars  mag- 
azine. He  is  also  vice  president  of  TMS  Com- 
puter Services  and  the  author  of  two  books: 
Mopedaller's  Handy  Manual  and  Your  Four,  a 
guide  to  four-cyhnder  motorcycles.  The  Stones 
reside  in  Danbury,  CT. 

David  Sulkin  serves  as  a  design  engineer  at 
Hamilton  Standard,  Windsor  Locks,  CT. 

James  Torrey,  Jr.,  serves  as  a  maintainabil- 
ity engineer  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Marl- 
boro, MA. 

Marianne  Wessling  continues  as  a  doctoral 
candidate  in  the  department  of  biophysics  and 
theoretical  biology  at  the  University  of  Chi- 
cago. 

Lisa  Wylie  is  a  staff  member  at  Western 
Electric  Co.,  North  Andover,  MA. 


1981 


MARRIED:  Richard  F.  Condon,  Jr.,  and  Linda 
J.  Michaud  in  Townsend,  MA,  on  April  24,  1982. 
Rich  is  a  photographic  engineer  at  Kodak,  Roch- 
ester, NY.  .  .  .  David  R.  Lamborghini  to  Helen 
Aadland  in  Fairhaven,  MA,  on  January  9,  1982. 
Mrs.  Lamborghini  graduated  from  Fairhaven  High 
School.  David  is  with  Procter  &  Gamble,  Quincy. 
.  .  .  Steven  M.  McDonald  and  Pamela  J.  Loftus 
on  January  16,  1982  in  Worcester.  The  bride  is 
a  student  at  Becker  Junior  College.  Steve  is  with 
Data  General  in  Westboro.  .  .  .  Joseph  P.  Nor- 
man, III,  and  Susan  A.  Bish  in  Springfield,  MA, 
on  December  27,  1981.  The  bride  has  an  AS 


degree  in  medical  assisting  from  Becker  Junior 
College.  Joe  is  a  structural  engineer  at  McDer- 
mott,  Inc.,  New  Orleans,  LA.  .  .  .  Scott  A.  Sar- 
gis  and  Karen  L.  Richardson  in  Leominster,  MA, 
on  February  5,  1982.  Mrs.  Sargis  graduated  from 
Becker.  Scott  is  a  mechanical  engineer  with 
Chevron  Chemical  Corp.  in  New  Orleans. 

Anthony  Cabral  is  a  student  at  Carnegie- 
Mellon  University,  Pittsburgh,  PA. 

Cindy  Canistro  works  as  a  project  engineer 
at  GE  Plastics  in  Pittsfield,  MA. 

James  Connor  is  a  sales  engineer  for  Ad- 
vanced Micro  Devices  in  Sunnyvale,  CA. 

Dan  Doherty,  Jr.,  works  as  a  senior  technical 
marketing  specialist  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp., 
Marlboro,  MA. 

Ethan  Foster  holds  the  post  of  programmer/ 
analyst  at  the  Laboratory  of  Computer  Sci- 
ence, Massachusetts  General  Hospital,  Bos- 
ton. 

Currently,  James  Geib  is  a  design  engineer 
at  Winchester  Electronics.  He  is  located  in 
Watertown,  CT. 

Robert  Hess  has  joined  the  Methods/Facili- 
ties Branch  in  the  Production  Department,  De- 
partment of  the  Navy,  Norfolk  Naval  Shipyard, 
Portsmouth,  VA. 

Peter  Hinckley  has  been  employed  as  a  prod- 
uct engineer  at  The  Torrington  Company,  Tor- 
rington,  CT. 

Keith  Mazzarese  works  as  a  field  engineer 
for  Stone  &  Webster  in  Waterford,  CT. 

William  Miller  holds  the  post  of  sales  engi- 
neer at  Westinghouse  Electric  in  Framingham, 
MA. 

David  Oriol  is  now  an  associate  at  Manufac- 
turer's Business  Systems,  Inc.,  Worcester. 

Frank  Polito  is  part  of  the  technical  staff  as- 
signed to  the  digital  lines  department  at  Bell 
Laboratories,  North  Andover,  MA. 

Timothy  Shea  works  as  a  scheduling  engineer 
for  Crawford  &  Russell,  Inc.,  of  Stamford,  CT. 

Jeffrey  Smith  is  a  planning  and  systems  an- 
alyst-manager at  Dresser  Atlas  in  Houston,  TX. 

Peter  Tiziani  is  a  design  engineer  for  Com- 
bustion Engineering  in  Windsor,  CT. 

David  Valardi  serves  as  a  field  engineer  at 
Dresser  Atlas  in  Rayne,  LA. 

Robert  Wright  holds  the  post  of  assistant  en- 
gineer at  New  England  Power  Service  Com- 
pany in  Worcester. 


Schcx)l  of 

Industrial  Management 

Clifford  Pontbriand,  '58,  continues  as  manager 
of  frame  operations  at  Pennsylvania  Optical 
Co.,  Reading,  PA.  .  .  .  William  Barlow,  '65, 
has  been  elected  executive  vice  president  at 
Wyman-Gordon  in  Worcester.  He  joined  the 
company  in  1943  and  has  worked  in  engineer- 
ing, manufacturing  and  senior  management 
jobs.  .  .  .  Leo  St.  Denis,  '65,  has  been  pro- 
moted to  manager  of  quality  control  at  An- 
derson Operations-Bay  State  Abrasives  Divi- 
sion, Worcester.  He  has  an  associate's  degree 
in  mechanical  engineering  from  Worcester 
Junior  College.  .  .  .  Ernest  Anger,  Jr.,  '78,  has 
been  appointed  manager  of  system  develop- 
ment at  Bay  State  Abrasives  Division,  Dresser 
Industries,  Westboro,  MA.  He  graduated  from 
Wentworth  Institute  and  joined  Bay  State  in 
1958  as  an  engineering  technician. 


38        WPI  JOURNAL 


Natural  Science 
Program 

In  January  Worcester  State  College  physics 
professor  Robert  Keliey,  '60,  courtesy  of  the 
U.S.  Navy,  joined  36  college  instructors  from 
all  over  the  country  at  Cape  Canaveral  to  get 
a  firsthand  look  at  the  "new  nuclear  Navy." 


One  of  the  highlights  of  the  visit  was  an  op- 
portunity to  witness  a  simulated  missile  launch 
from  a  nuclear-powered  submarine.  .  .  .  Ralph 
Southwick,  '66,  teaches  science  at  Jefferson 
(MA)  Middle  School.  .  .  .  Philip  Wilson,  '78, 
continues  teaching  at  Lynnfield  High  School, 
Lynnfield,  MA.  .  .  .  William  Johnson,  Jr.,  '81, 
is  a  teacher  at  Rockport  High  School,  Rock- 
port,  MA. 


COMPLETED  CAREERS 


David  E.  Carpenter,  '11,  of  Agawam,  MA,  a 
long-time  employee  of  Westinghouse,  died  on 
April  1,  1982  at  the  age  of  93. 

Except  for  four  years  with  Buckeye  Prod- 
ucts, Mr.  Carpenter  was  with  Westinghouse 
Electric  Corp.  from  1911  until  his  retirement. 
He  earned  the  company's  highest  honor,  the 
Silver  "W"  Order  of  Merit,  and  held  a  patent 
on  a  winding  machine  to  automate  the  winding 
of  motor  stators  and  rotors.  In  1955  he  retired 
as  a  consulting  manufacturing  engineer. 

A.  Hugh  Reid,  '11,  of  Worcester,  class  vice 
president,  passed  away  recently. 

He  was  born  on  July  7,  1889  in  Worcester. 
Graduated  from  WPI  as  a  mechanical  engi- 
neer, he  was  retired  from  CF&I  Steel  Corp. 
and  belonged  to  the  Tech  Old  Timers  and  Sigma 
Xi. 

Alfred  R.  Kinney,  '12,  of  Blacksburg,  VA,  a 
long-time  employee  of  the  U.S.  Forest  Service, 
died  February  3,  1982.  He  was  92. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  received  a  BSCE 
from  WPI.  During  his  career  with  the  U.S. 
Forest  Service,  he  served  as  examiner  of  sur- 
veys in  West  Virginia,  Virginia  and  Pennsyl- 
vania and  as  chief  land  examiner  in  the  Unaka 
and  Pisgah  National  Forests  situated  in  Vir- 
ginia, Tennessee  and  North  Carolina. 

Roland  H.  Dufault,  '14,  of  Wellesley  Hills,  MA, 
president  of  the  Class  of  1914,  died  on  January 
31,  1982. 

"Mike"  graduated  with  his  BS  in  chemistry 
from  WPI,  then  worked  for  three  years  at  J. 
Russel  Marble  &  Co.,  Worcester.  During  World 
War  I  he  was  a  major  in  the  U.S.  Army.  From 
1919  until  1953  when  he  retired  as  branch  man- 
ager in  New  York  City,  he  was  with  du  Pont. 

He  had  been  a  member  of  the  New  York 
Board  of  Trade,  the  Chemists  Club  of  New 
York,  Tau  Beta  Pi  and  Sigma  Xi.  A  native  of 
Spencer,  MA,  he  was  89.  He  was  a  former  WPI 
Alumni  Council  representative  from  Philadel- 
phia and  a  member  of  the  Tech  Old  Timers. 

William  J.  Becker,  Jr.,  '15,  of  Kansas  City, 
MO,  passed  away  recently.  He  was  89. 

During  his  career,  he  was  employed  by  But- 
terworth  Judson,  Midwest  Refining  Co.,  Gen- 
eral Engineering  and  Maintenance  Corp.  and 
Trojan  Engineering  Corp.  From  1932  until  he 
retired  in  1957,  he  was  with  Long  Island  Light- 
ing Co.,  where  he  rose  to  superintendent. 

Mr.  Becker,  a  Mason,  was  also  a  past  pres- 
ident of  his  local  Rotary  Club.  For  15  years  he 
was  active  with  the  BSA,  advancing  to  district 
director.  He  belonged  to  Theta  Chi  and  was  a 
World  War  I  Army  veteran. 


Simon  Collier,  '16,  a  retired  executive  from 
Johns-Manville  Corporation  and  resident  of  Los 
Angeles,  passed  away  in  December. 

Following  his  graduation  as  a  chemist  from 
WPI,  he  joined  the  Boston  Belting  Company. 
Later  employers  were  the  National  Bureau  of 
Standards,  Washington,  DC,  Johns-Manville, 
from  which  he  retired  as  director  of  quality 
control  in  1959,  and  UCLA,  where  he  was  an 
associate  professor-lecturer.  A  nationally  known 
authority  in  the  field  of  industrial  quality  con- 
trol, he  specialized  in  quality  control  consulting 
in  asbestos  fiber  and  products.  Papers  on  his 
specialty  were  published  in  various  profes- 
sional magazines. 

Mr.  CoUier  was  born  on  June  1 ,  1894  in  Salem, 
MA. 

Edwin  W.  Bemis,  '19,  of  Brick  Town,  NJ,  died 
recently. 

After  graduating  as  an  electrical  engineer, 
he  did  part-time  graduate  work  at  WPI.  From 
1920  to  1962  he  was  on  the  headquarters  staff 
at  American  Telephone  &  Telegraph  Co.  He 
joined  ITT  in  1962  and  retired  in  1968. 

Mr.  Bemis  was  born  July  19,  1897  in  Hol- 
yoke,  MA.  He  was  a  senior  member  of  IEEE 
and  belonged  to  Tau  Beta  Pi  and  Sigma  Xi. 
He  served  as  secretary  of  the  Class  of  1919.  He 
was  a  former  secretary  of  the  New  York  Chap- 
ter of  the  WPI  Alunini  Association. 

Roy  H.  Carpenter,  '19,  of  Wooster,  OH,  died 
on  July  4,  1981. 

He  was  born  on  September  11,  1897  in  War- 
ren, MA,  and  graduated  with  a  BS  in  chem- 
istry. In  1929  he  received  his  MA  from  Colum- 
bia University. 

After  teaching  in  several  high  schools  in 
Maryland,  Massachusetts  and  Connecticut,  he 
taught  at  Ossining  (NY)  High  School  from  1929 
to  1945.  From  1945  to- 1964,  when  he  retired, 
he  was  principal  at  Roosevelt  School  in  Ossin- 
ing. Mr.  Carpenter  belonged  to  the  Masons 
and  to  the  Ossining  Board  of  Education. 

Dana  D.  Goodwin,  '19,  of  Fitchburg,  MA,  the 
retired  president  of  W.  C.  Goodwin,  Inc.,  died 
April  17,  1982. 

A  Fitchburg  native,  he  was  born  on  October 
5,  1897  and  later  studied  electrical  engineering 
at  WPI.  During  his  career,  he  was  affiliated 
with  the  Rock  Island  (IL)  Arsenal  and  Simonds 
Mfg.  Co.  For  many  years  he  was  the  self-em- 
ployed president  of  W.  C.  Goodwin,  Inc.,  a 
retail  shoe  store  in  Fitchburg. 

Mr.  Goodwin  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappa 
and  the  Masons.  He  was  a  former  vice  presi- 
dent of  the  Worcester  County  Alumni  Club  of 
the  WPI  Alumni  Association. 


Arthur  W.  Bassett,  '20,  of  Lititz,  PA,  passed 
away  on  January  29,  1982. 

In  1962  he  retired  as  chief  of  power  engi- 
neering at  Armstrong  World  Industries,  where 
he  had  been  employed  since  1929.  Previously, 
he  was  with  Pennsylvania  Power  and  Light  Co. 
and  New  Jersey  Zinc  Co. 

He  was  born  on  January  4,  1897  in  Heath, 
MA,  and  received  a  BSME  from  WPI.  He  be- 
longed to  the  Masons,  the  Shrine,  the  National 
Association  of  Professional  Engineers  and  Sigma 
Phi  Epsilon.  Formerly  he  served  as  president 
of  the  local  chapter  of  the  American  Business 
Club. 

David  W.  Dimmock,  '22,  died  Christmas  Day 
at  his  home  in  Hatchville,  MA,  following  a  long 
illness.  He  was  80. 

Before  retiring  in  1959,  he  taught  mathe- 
matics in  the  Falmouth  school  system  for  15 
years.  For  40  years  he  operated  a  farm  in 
Hatchville.  He  was  born  on  February  21,  1901 
in  Pocasset,  MA. 

Austin  J.  Ball,  '25,  died  March  9, 1982  in  Hack- 
ettstown,  NJ,  at  the  age  of  78. 

A  native  of  Clinton,  MA,  he  was  born  on 
May  28,  1903.  In  1925  he  graduated  as  an  elec- 
trical engineer  from  WPI.  For  many  years  he 
was  employed  by  Consolidated  Edison  of  New 
York  City.  He  retired  in  1975. 

John  J.  McAuiiffe,  '25,  of  Walnut  Creek,  CA, 
passed  away  recently. 

A  native  of  Massachusetts,  he  was  born  on 
January  31,  1903.  He  graduated  from  WPI  as 
an  electrical  engineer.  For  a  number  of  years 
he  was  with  General  Electric  in  Schenectady, 
NY,  and  Westinghouse  in  Sunnyvale,  CA.  At 
his  retirement  he  was  an  operations  analyst  at 
Stanford  Research  Institute  in  Menio  Park.  He 
belonged  to  ATO  and  Skull. 

Theodore  D.  Schoonmaker,  '26,  of  Northboro, 
MA,  a  retired  sales  manager  for  Massachusetts 
Electric  Co.,  died  on  February  16,  1982  in 
Marlboro  Hospital.  He  was  79. 

Following  his  graduation  as  an  electrical  en- 
gineer, he  joined  Maiden  Electric  Co.  From 
1940  to  1944  he  was  an  appraisal  engineer  for 
the  North  Central  District  of  the  New  England 
Electric  System.  Later  he  was  associated  with 
the  power  sales  department  and  then  became 
commercial  sales  manager.  He  retired  from 
Massachusetts  Electric  in  1967. 

Mr.  Schoonmaker  was  a  member  of  the  Ma- 
sons, Trinity  Church  (former  deacon)  and  the 
Tech  Old  Timers.  He  had  served  on  the  Mu- 
nicipal Code  and  Bylaw  Committee  of  North- 
boro. He  was  the  father  of  Paul  Schoonmaker, 
'56,  and  was  bom  on  February  18,  1902  in  Hyde 
Park,  MA. 

Albert  A.  Baron,  '30,  a  retired  manager  for 
U.S.  Envelope  Co.,  died  on  March  16,  1982  at 
his  home  in  Alhambra,  CA. 

He  joined  the  Kellogg  Division  of  U.S.  En- 
velope in  1929  and  was  made  plant  manager  in 
Springfield,  MA,  when  the  plant  had  over  1000 
employees.  He  also  was  plant  manager  in  At- 
lanta, GA,  and  Worcester  and  had  been  pro- 
duction control  manager  for  the  firm  in  Los 
Angeles,  as  well  as  western  region  sales  rep- 
resentative. 

Mr.  Baron,  a  member  of  AEPi,  was  born 
March  10,  1907  in  Bristol,  RI.  He  received  his 


Besides  sening  on  the  WPI  President's  Ad- 
visory Council.  Mr.  Coghlin  had  held  the  post 
of  president  of  the  Worcester  County  Alumni 
Club,  and  was  a  former  member  of  the  Alumni 
Fund  Board.  He  was  chairman  of  the  Class  of 
1923  50th  Reunion  Committees.  In  1975  he 
received  the  Herbert  F.  Taylor  Award  for  dis- 
tinguished service  to  WPI.  He  was  the  father 
of  Edwin  B.  Coghlin,  Jr.,  '56  and  the  late  John 
P.  Coghlin,  a  member  of  the  Class  of  1963. 

For  the  past  twenty  years.  Mr.  CoghUn  pro- 
vided the  J. P.  Coghlin  Manager's  Award  to 
recognize  the  outstanding  student  manager  of 
athletic  teams,  an  action  which  typified  his  con- 
cern for  others  and  his  generous  heart. 

Victor  N.  Colby,  '31  passed  away  on  November 
27.  1981  in  Hanover.  NH.  at  the  age  of  73. 

For  18  years  he  operated  a  poultry  farm.  He 
had  also  been  employed  by  Jones  Express.  Sul- 
loway  Mills  and  Gile's  Dairy.  In  1976  he  retired 
from  T  and  S  Vending  in  Franklin.  NH. 

Mr.  Colby  was  born  on  June  24.  1908  in 
Franklin.  In  1931  he  received  his  BS  in  general 


science  from  WPI.  He  belonged  to  the  Con- 
gregational Church  and  the  Odd  Fellows.  He 
was  past  grand  patriarch  of  the  New  Hampshire 
Grand  Encampment  and  the  current  depart- 
ment commander  of  the  New  Hampshire  Pa- 
triarchs Militant. 

Thomas  S.  Johnson  '39  of  Framingham.  MA, 

died  in  December. 

He  was  born  March  2.  1915  in  Rockport. 
MA.  and  later  became  a  member  of  the  Class 
of  1939.  For  many  years  he  was  with  Emhart 
Corp.  (United  Shoe  Machinery),  where  he  rose 
to  administrative  assistant  in  the  Machinery  Di- 
vision. Boston.  He  was  a  member  of  Theta  Chi. 

Donald  R.  Bates,  '40.  a  lifetime  member  of  the 
President's  Advisory  Council  at  WPI.  died  in 
California  on  October  5.  1981. 

A  native  of  Norwich.  CT.  he  was  born  on 
Dec.  16.  1917.  He  graduated  as  a  civil  engineer 
from  WPI  in  1940.  During  his  career  he  served 
as  a  senior  production  engineer  at  Lockheed 
Aircraft,  as  vice  president  and  partner  of  the 


Worcester 

Polytechnic 

Institute 

presents 

A  One-Week 


ALASKAN  CRUISE  fr°-3;i,299* 

DEPARTING  FROM  BOSTON  AND  OTHER  U.S.  CITIES  AUGUST  17, 1982 
RETURNING  AUGUST  24, 1982 

Your  delightful  Alaskan  vacation  includes 

•  Round-trip  airfare  to  Vancouver,  B.C.,  Canada 

•  Cruise  through  the  Alaskan  island  passage  aboard  the 
Cunard  Princess 

•  Ports  of  call  will  tDe  Ketchican,  Juneau,  Glacier  Bay  and  Sitka 

•  Price  includes  airfare,  cruise,  cabin  accommodations,  meals 
aboard  ship,  transfers  and  normal  travel  agency  service  charges 

*From  Boston,  plus  15%  ,M,299  upward,  depending  on  cabin 
space  seleaed  Prices  vary  depending  on  city  of  origin. 
For  additional  information,  please  call 
WPI  Alumni  Office  617/793-5600  or  TransNational  Travel  (Boston) 
Alaskan  Cruise  Department  617/262-9200 
in  Massachusetts  dial  800/952-7477 


Roll  Forming  Co. .  vice  president  of  Daystrom, 
president  of  the  Vista  Furniture  Co..  president 
of  Vista-Costa  Mesa  Furniture  Co.  (a  division 
of  Dictaphone  Corp.).  and  president  of  Vista 
Travel,  from  which  he  was  retired. 

Mr.  Bates  belonged  to  Lambda  Chi  Alpha 
fraternity.  He  was  active  in  fund  raising  for  the 
WPI  Alumni  Association  and  had  also  been 
vice  president  of  the  Los  Angeles  chapter  of 
the  Alumni  Association  for  many  years. 

Frank  B.  Stevenson,  '40.  a  retired  marine  en- 
gineer, died  unexpectedly  in  Lawrence  (MA) 
General  Hospital  on  December  1.  1981. 

After  graduating  as  a  mechanical  engineer 
from  WPI.  he  worked  for  a  short  time  for  Ve- 
deer-Root.  Inc..  Hartford.  CT.  He  then  served 
many  years  as  a  marine  engineer  at  the  Boston 
Navy  Yard,  retiring  in  1973. 

Mr.  Stevenson  was  a  member  of  Theta  Chi 
and  the  Free  Christian  Church.  He  was  born 
on  July  1,  1915  in  Lawrence.  MA. 

Melvin  H.  Knapp,  '41  died  in  the  University 
of  Massachusetts  Hospital.  Worcester,  on  De- 
cember 24.  1981  after  a  long  illness. 

For  the  last  20  years  he  was  chief  metallurgist 
at  Reed  Rolled  Thread  Die  Co..  Holden.  MA. 
For  20  years  prior  to  that,  he  was  an  experi- 
mental engineer  and  metallurgist  for  Brown  & 
Sharpe  Manufacturing  Co..  Providence,  RI. 

Mr.  Knapp.  who  graduated  with  his  BSME 
from  WPI  in  1941,  belonged  to  Phi  Gamma 
Delta  and  the  Congregational  Church.  A  mem- 
ber of  the  American  Society  for  Metals,  he  had 
served  as  chairman  of  the  Rhode  Island  Chap- 
ter before  transferring  to  the  Worcester  Chap- 
ter. In  1976  he  qualified  as  a  life  member  of 
the  Appalachian  Mountain  Club.  He  was  chair- 
man of  the  Worcester  County  Chapter. 

Born  on  April  1.  1918  in  Worcester,  he  was 
the  brother  of  Walter  Knapp,  '38. 

Paul  M.A.  Schonning,  '50  died  in  St.  Vincent 
Hospital,  Worcester,  on  December  25,  1981 
after  being  stricken  at  his  home.  He  was  58. 

With  Norton  Co.  for  seven  years,  he  had 
previously  been  employed  by  Jamesbury  Corp. 
and  Wyman-Gordon,  both  of  Worcester.  He 
had  served  as  a  project  engineer  and  senior 
engineer  for  Norton. 

Mr.  Schonning  was  born  in  Worcester  on 
June  25,.  1923.  In  1950  he  graduated  as  a  me- 
chanical engineer  from  WPI.  He  belonged  to 
Lambda  Chi  Alpha,  the  American  Legion,  and 
the  Masons,  as  well  as  the  Aletheia  Grotto, 
and  the  Society  of  Professional  Engineers.  For 
40  years  he  was  a  member  of  the  Ouinsigamond 
United  Methodist  Church  choir. 

In  World  War  II  he  served  in  England  with 
the  U.S.  Army  Signal  Corps. 

Charles  H.  Bidwell,  Jr.,  '57  of  East  Hartford, 
CT,  died  as  the  result  of  an  accident  on  July 
17.  1981. 

He  was  born  on  Nov.  29,  1934  in  Hartford, 
CT,  and  received  his  BSCE  in  1957.  During 
his  career  he  was  with  Jackson  and  Moreland, 
Inc..  the  Civil  Engineer  Corps  of  the  U.S.  Navy 
Reserve,  and  Burton  &  VanHoutcn  Engi- 
neers. A  member  of  A  TO.  he  had  also  served 
as  secretary,  vice  president  and  treasurer  of  the 
Hartford  Chapter  of  the  WPI  Alumni  Asso- 
ciation. 

He  was  the  son  of  Charles  H.  Bidwell,  Sr. 
of  the  Class  of  1925. 


40        WI'I  JUURNAL 


AMPERSAND 


Visions  of  Youth 


What  awaits  us  10,  25,  50  years  into  the 
future?  For  those  of  us  who  can  find  the 
time  to  ponder  such  things,  the  imagin- 
ings of  children  may  appear  incredible 
yet  marvelous.  But  we  who  grew  up  with 
Buck  Rogers  or  even  the  crew  of  Star 
Trek's  fantastic  Enterprise  might  well  re- 
call our  childhood  rumblings  and  the  ex- 
tent to  which  many  of  them  have  be- 
come— with  amazing  speed  and 
likeness — today's  household  terms. 

We  feature  here  award-winning  essays 
by  Worcester-area  children,  grade  6 
through  age  16,  on  "Our  Future 
World. "  A  classroom  project,  the  contest 
is  sponsored  by  the  Worcester  Telegram. 

So  take  heed,  problem-solvers  of  the 
world,  for  it  was  not  long  ago — but  for 
childhood  fantasies — that  "common- 
place" events  like  space  travel  might  re- 
main inconceivable  and  heart  transplants 
impossible. 


Advanced  Technology 

By  Carina  Wong,  1 1 

I  think  our  future  world  will  be  basically 
the  same  as  the  present,  though  the  tech- 
nology may  be  a  bit  more  advanced  and 
there  will  probably  be  more  use  of  it. 

There  are  ideas  for  building  domes  over 
large  cities  and  plans  for  a  "super  train" 
that  can  travel  much  faster  because  there 
will  be  no  wheels  to  cause  friction.  This 
train  will  be  moved  by  magnets.  There  is 
also  a  debate  about  the  use  of  solar  power 
for  heating  homes. 

However  easier  or  less  work  the  future 
world  may  bring,  I  would  still  prefer  na- 
ture and  being  outdoors  in  the  fresh  air 
over  having  a  computer  or  robot  do  my 
work  for  me. 

Machines 

By  Suzanne  Lampson,  grade  6 

I  think  our  future  will  be  with  machines. 
If  we  could  get  something  we  wanted  by 


pushing  buttons,  that  would  be  something 
everyone  could  do.  We  could  have  our 
household  needs  done  for  us. 

I  also  think  machines  would  be  greatly 
appreciated  by  the  elderly.  If  they  could 
do  more  by  machines  they  could  get  around 
easier. 

We  think  we  own  machines,  but  we 
don't,  they  own  us.  If  we  didn't  have  any 
machines,  what  would  we  do?  We  would 
have  no  transportation  and  wouldn't  have 
good  meals.  We  just  don't  notice  how  much 
we  have.  Maybe  in  the  future  we  will  have 
new  and  better  machines. 


Robots 

By  Caron  Engstrom,  1 1 

I  think  the  future  world  will  be  full  of 
electronics,  computer  technology,  robots 
and  space  cities. 

The  electronics  will  be  nothing  like  our 
games  today.  That  would  be  neat  and  fas- 
cinating. 

The  computers  would  be  more  ad- 
vanced than  you  ever  thought  of.  The  ro- 
bots would  be  wonderful.  Some  will  only 
be  two  inches  tall  and  will  be  able  to  pick 
up  tables  and  chairs.  Best  of  all  they  would 
have  a  little  computer  in  them  and  could 
give  you  any  answer  you  wanted. 

The  greatest  thing  would  be  the  cities 
in  space.  They  would  be  man-made  and 
have  all  the  human  basic  needs  on  them. 

I  would  like  to  work  on  a  computer  or 
a  robot.  Maybe  even  live  in  a  space  city. 
I  think  it  would  be  really  neat. 

Floating  Cars 

By  Betsey  Bentley,  11 

In  our  future  world  we  will  have  cars  that 
will  float  on  air.  We'll  just  have  to  pump 
air  in  it  to  make  it  go.  The  houses  will  be 
so  far  up  they'll  be  in  space.  The  houses 
will  all  be  condominiums.  Instead  of  tar 
sidewalks  and  streets,  we  will  have  mov- 
ing sidewalks  and  streets  so  we  won't  have 
to  walk.  We'll  just  stand  there  and  if  your 


car  won't  pump  up,  just  use  the  moving 
street.  Instead  of  staircases  we  would  have 
escalators  or  elevators.  And  finally, 
everyone  will  be  a  millionaire. 

Trips  to  the  Moon 

By  Keith  Higgins,  1 1 

In  the  future  world,  the  United  States  will 
be  having  people  living  on  the  moon.  They 
will  live  in  dome  cities.  It  will  be  a  lot  like 
we  live  today.  The  cars  would  have  thrust 
rockets  and  the  speed  would  be  105  miles 
per  hour. 

The  sports  fields  would  be  within  the 
main  dome,  that  has  a  gravity  machine  to 
hold  everyone  on  the  ground.  The  um- 
pires and  referees  would  be  robots. 

People  would  own  space  shuttles  to  fly 
wherever  they  want.  Everyone  would  have 
their  own  robots.  Children  wouldn't  have 
to  go  to  school  because  they  would  have 
been  born  with  great  brains. 

All  this  will  happen  in  the  future. 

No  Wars 

By  John  Fitzgibbons,  grade  8 

I  hope  that  in  our  future  world  there  will 
be  no  clashes  among  our  people  and  that 
there  will  be  peace  in  the  world  to  come. 
I  hope  the  democracy  in  our  new  world 
will  be  equal  for  all  people.  I  hope  that 
people  who  are  thirsty  will  be  given  some- 
thing to  drink,  and  those  who  are  hungry 
will  be  given  food  to  eat  and  those  who 
are  homeless  will  be  given  shelter. 

No  Inflation 

By  Reinaldo  Torres,  1 1 

I  hope  my  future  world  does  not  have 
inflation  and  or  other  money  problems.  I 
hope  laws  will  be  fair.  I  also  think  our 
future  world  should  have  space  colonies. 
Our  future  world  should  have  cures  for 
everything.  I  also  think  our  future  world 
is  going  to  have  peace. 


COME  ON  BACK 


WPI 

REUNION 
1982 

June  4-6 


special  Events  and  Get- 
Togethers  for  the  Five- 
Year  Reunion  Classes 

1917 

1922 

1927 

1932 

1937 

1942 

1947 

1952 

1957 

1962 


PLAN  NOW  TO  ATTEND 


WORCESTER  POLYTECHNIC  •'^ INSTITUTE 


!•«; 


WOflCESTER 
POLYTECHNIC  KjSIITUni 

SEP  I  me 
GORDON  LIBRARY 


"^  ♦ 


pngineenng 
"iresafe  Buildings: 
rheiWPI  Approach 

<euiion  1982 

rhe  CAD-CAM  Connection 


Reunion 
Sampler 


For  a  photographic 
tour  of  1982's  reunion 
weekend,  turn  to 
page  8. 


At  the  annual 

Reunion  Luncheon, 

Father  Peter  Scanlon 

gives  the  invocation. 


I  he  60th  Reunion 
(lays  of  1922 


' 


WPI  Journal 

WORCESTER  POLYTECHNIC  ^INSTITUTE 


VOLUME  86        NO  1 


Staff  of  The  WPI  Journal 

Editor,  Kenneth  L.  McDonnell 

Alumni  Information  Editor,  Ruth  S.  Trask 

Alumni  Publications  Committee:  Donald  E. 
Ross,  '54,  chair;  Robert  C.  Gosling,  '68;  Samuel 
W.  Mencow,  '37;  Stanley  P.  Negus,  Jr.,  '54; 
Judy  Nitsch,  '75. 

The  WPI  Journal  (ISSN  0148-6128)  is  pub- 
lished quarterly  for  the  WPI  Alumni  Associ- 
ation by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  in  co- 
operation with  the  Alumni  Magazine 
Consortium,  with  editorial  offices  at  the  Johns 
Hopkins  University,  Baltimore,  MD  21218. 
Pages  I-XVI  are  published  for  the  Alumni 
Magazine  Consortium  (Franklin  and  Marshall 
College,  Hartwick  College,  Johns  Hopkins 
University,  Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute, 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute)  and  appear  in 
the  respective  alumni  magazines  of  those  in- 
stitutions. Second  class  postage  paid  at 
Worcester,  MA  and  additional  mailing  offices. 
Pages  1-12,  29-40  ©  1982,  Worcester  Poly- 
technic Institute.  Pages  I-XVI  ©  1982,  Johns 
Hopkins  University. 

Staff  of  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consortium:  Ed- 
itor, Elise  Hancock;  Business  Manager,  Rob- 
ert Hewes;  Production  Coordinator,  Wendy 
Williams;  Associate  Editor,  Mary  Ruth  Yoe; 
Designer,  Allen  Carroll;  Magazine  Fellow, 
Kevin  Bjerregaard;  Senior  Writer,  Robert  Ka- 
nigel;  Editorial  Assistant,  Elaine  Langlois. 

Advisory  Board  for  the  Alumni  Magazine  Con- 
sortium: Franklin  and  Marshall  College,  John 
Synodinos  and  Judy  Durand;  Hartwick  Col- 
lege, Philip  Benoit  and  Merrilee  Gomillion; 
Johns  Hopkins  University,  Ross  Jones  and  Elise 
Hancock;  Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute, 
Lynn  Holley  and  Robert  M.  Whitaker; 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,  Thomas  J. 
Denney  and  Kenneth  L.  McDonnell. 

Acknowledgments:  Typesetting,  Foto  Typeset- 
ters, Inc.;  Printing,  John  D.  Lucas  Printing 
Company;  Mailing,  Circular  Advertising  Com- 
pany. 

Opinions  expressed  in  this  publication  are  those 
of  the  individual  authors  and  not  necessarily 
policies  of  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 
Address  correspondence  to  the  Editor,  The  WPI 
Journal,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute, 
Worcester,  MA  01609.  Telephone  (617)  793- 
5609.  Postmaster:  If  undehverable  please  send 
form  3579  to  the  address  above.  Do  not  return 
publication. 


CONTENTS 


12 


IV 


AUGUST  1982 


The  CAD'CAM  Connection 

From  drafting  board  to  plant  floor, 
computers  are  showing  the  way.  Here's  the 
WPI  story  on  this  remarkable  field. 
Kenneth  L.  McDonnell 

Welcome  Back! 

A  pictorial  voyage  through  a  wet  but 
wonderful  Reunion  Weekend  1982. 

Dougal  Drysdale:  Fire  Man 

In  short  order,  this  flying  Scot  has  come 
to  WPI  and  left  his  mark  in  firesafety 
engineering — worldwide . 
Kenneth  L.  McDonnell 

The  Fire  Next  Time  . . . 

.  .  .  could  be  predicted  or  prevented  if  a  new 
discipline — fire  safety — has  its  way. 
Robert  Kanigel 

An  Empirical  Discussion 

In  which  a  panel  of  experts  ponders  the 
rise  and  fall  of  empires  past  and  present. 

Departments 

News  from  the  Hill        2 


PAO/C 
NC  DEM 

3-17- 


\ 


I. 


Page  4 


Page  8 


Projects        11 
Alumni  Notes 


29 


Page  IV 


On  the  cover:  A  five  alarm  Boston  pier  fire.  Photo  by  Bill 
Noonan,  Boston  Fire  Department. 


AUGUST  1982 


NEWS  FROM  THE  HILL 


A  Unique  Approach 

to  Alumni  Communication 

Remember  your  very  first  job  after  grad- 
uation? For  most  of  us,  embarking  upon 
a  career  was  an  adventure  filled  with  both 
great  anticipation  and  more  than  a  little 
apprehension:  leaving  friends,  moving  to 
a  new  city — perhaps  across  the  country — 
beginning  new  professional  and  personal 
ties — a  new  life. 

If  the  WPI  Corporate  Contacts  pro- 
gram had  been  in  place  when  many  of  us 
were  coping  with  these  changes,  we  would 
have  found  the  adjustment  less  harrow- 
ing. Corporate  Contacts,  you  ask — what's 
that? 

In  1977,  an  alumni  study  group  had  the 
foresight  to  recognize  that  a  graduate's 
relationship  with  WPI  did  not  have  to  end 
on  graduation  day  or  reoccur  only  at  re- 
union gatherings.  At  major  corporations 
across  the  Northeast,  WPI  began  a  pro- 
gram where  alumni  could  interact  on  a 
professional  basis  at  their  places  of  em- 
ployment— a  program  that  is  still  the  only 
one  of  its  kind  in  the  country. 

Clark  Poland,  '48,  was  enlisted  to  head 
the  fledgling  program,  and  new  programs 
were  initiated  at  a  few  corporations.  To- 
day, Mark  C.  Dupuis,  '72,  serves  as  na- 
tional chair.  "Corporate  Contacts,"  he 
says,  "is  now  in  place  at  16  corporations, 
and  the  programs  are  as  varied  as  the 
alumni  constituencies  they  serve." 

For  example,  the  program  at  Eastman 
Kodak  in  Rochester  has  proven  to  be  ex- 
emplary. Since  its  founding,  most  of 
Kodak's  75  WPI  graduates  have  gathered 
at  frequent  Corporate  Contacts  lunch- 
eons and  other  welcoming  activities. 

Closer  to  home,  Riley  Stoker  Company 
and  Norton  Company  both  have  devel- 
oped successful  alumni  programs  and  have 
served  as  a  major  link  between  WPI  and 
the  alumni  employed  at  these  companies. 
At  Norton,  for  example,  widely  popular 
informal  get-togethers  to  discuss  technical 
matters  have  been  held  on  a  regular  basis. 
In  addition,  WPI  faculty  visit  the  com- 


pany to  inform  alumni  of  recent  happen- 
ings on  campus.  What's  more,  the  in- 
volvement of  both  Stoker  and  Norton  in 
sponsoring  student  projects  has  been  ex- 
tensive. 

According  to  Ralph  Mongeon,  '55,  who 
chairs  Riley  Stoker's  Corporate  Contacts 
program,  "The  beauty  of  this  program  is 
that  it  is  structured  so  that  there's  no  need 
to  have  a  highly  organized  program,  yet 
it  offers  such  a  natural  affinity  and  con- 
venience within  the  corporations  that  par- 
ticipation and  involvement  of  alumni  are 
very  high." 

Dupuis  adds,  "Improved  communica- 
tion is  still  a  primary  goal  of  the  program, 
but  one  of  the  most  positive  results  is  one 
which  was  not  anticipated  by  its  founders: 
Today,  many  major  universities  are  look- 
ing at  the  WPI  Corporate  Contacts  as  a 
model  program,  worthy  of  duplication  at 
companies  across  the  country." 

WPI  invites  your  inquiries  on  establish- 
ing a  Corporate  Contacts  program  at  your 
company.  For  details,  write  Deborah  Scott, 
Assistant  Alumni  Director,  WPI. 

KLM 


The  Winning  Attitude 
of  Bob  Weiss 

"A  resurrector  of  doldrum  football  pro- 
grams, a  strong  fundamentalist  and  a 
builder  of  men." 

That's  how  well-known  New  England 
sportscaster  Dave  Connors  describes  WPI's 
Bob  Weiss.  Those  who've  witnessed  the 
sustained  success  of  WPI's  head  football 
coach  could  hardly  disagree.  For  prior  to 
bringing  renewed  life  to  the  WPI  gridiron, 
Weiss  performed  a  string  of  miracles  at 
the  high-school  level  and  served  under 
some  of  the  finest  college  coaches  in  New 
England.  When  he  arrived  on  the  scene 
at  WPI  in  1978,  in  the  wake  of  the  schooPs 
renewed  commitment  to  football,  Weiss's 
mission  was  simple  enough:  to  produce  a 
"respectable"  football  program.  But  con- 
sidering WPI's  record — the  bleakest  all- 


time  winning  percentage  of  any  Division 
III  team  in  New  England — it  seemed  that 
this  miracle  worker  had  met  his  match. 

Four  years  later  Weiss  has  a  new  five- 
year  contract  under  his  belt,  and  the 
scoreboard  tells  the  story.  Following  pro- 
gressively improved  seasons  in  1978  and 
1979,  Weiss's  1980  Engineers  compiled 
their  first  winning  season  in  12  years.  And 
in  1981,  but  for  six  points,  WPI  would 
have  finished  the  season  undefeated.  In 


"Success  is  a  matter  of  priorities." 

the  end,  Weiss  had  to  "settle"  for  a  6-2 
season.  At  one  point,  WPI  was  ranked 
No.  1  and  No.  5  in  two  prestigious  football 
polls.  There  was  even  talk  of  an  NCAA 
tournament  bid,  something  no  other  Di- 
vision III  team  in  New  England  had  ever 
been  offered. 

A  key  to  Weiss's  success  at  WPI  has 
been  his  tireless  recruiting.  "Bob  is  a  very 


2        WPI  JOURNAL 


effective,  aggressive  spokesman  for  WPI," 
says  Roy  Seaberg,  '56,  Director  of  Ad- 
missions. "He  understands  our  many  pro- 
grams very  well  and  is  thorough  in  fol- 
lowing through." 

Weiss's  reputation  for  ambitious  foot- 
ball objectives  and  the  Institute's  com- 
mitment to  exacting  academic  standards 
force  him  to  compete  on  the  recruiting 
circuit  against  schools  with  good  football 
and  academic  reputations.  Bob  Bois,  for 
example,  a  senior  Bio-Med  major  from 
Salem,  Massachusetts,  who'll  return  in 
September  as  team  captain,  was  courted 
by  Harvard,  Cornell  and  UMass,  but  came 
to  WPI.  "Coach  Weiss  was  the  differ- 
ence," says  Bois.  "He  sold  me  on  all  of 
WPI's  merits." 

Last  year  alone,  Weiss's  recruiting  net- 
ted more  than  400  football  admissions  ap- 
plications. Though  not  all  of  these  were 
what  Weiss  considers  prime  football  pros- 
pects, each  possessed  qualities  he  felt  could 
benefit  the  school. 

Recruiting  can  be  slow  and  tedious.  But 
as  Weiss  sees  things,  "We're  competing 
for  student-athletes  against  some  very 
prestigious  schools,  so  we've  got  to  be 
painstakingly  persistent.  Often  we  meet 
with  the  kids  on  several  occasions  at  any 
combination  of  places — at  their  homes, 
their  high  schools  or  here  at  WPI." 

But  unlike  some  of  the  larger  colleges, 
the  personal  contact  doesn't  end  when  the 
student  enrolls  and  his  WPI  career  begins 
for  real.  Weiss  makes  himself  available  to 
all  his  players  and  gets  involved  with  every 
element  of  their  college  experience — from 
academics  to  athletics  to  personal  prob- 
lems. "I  feel  strongly  about  the  total  in- 
dividual; that  is,  his  progress  toward  grad- 
uation and  his  personal  growth  at  WPI. 
And  I'm  proud  of  the  fact  that  very  few 
of  my  players  get  into  hot  water  academ- 
ically." 

A  1958  graduate  of  Tufts  University, 
Weiss  was  a  standout  halfback  and  base- 
ball catcher.  He  also  worked  with  two  of 
New  England's  most  respected  football 
powers,  Dartmouth  College  and  the  Uni- 
versity of  Connecticut,  before  taking  the 
reins  at  WPI.  Twice  in  his  four  years  at 
UConn,  the  Huskies  won  the  Yankee 
Conference  championship. 

Last  January,  Weiss  was  extended  the 
opportunity  to  remain  at  WPI  under  terms 
of  a  five-year  contract,  an  arrangement 
he  prefers  to  the  tenure  system  that  ex- 
isted for  football  coaches  prior  to  his  ar- 
rival. "Tenure  is  for  teachers,  not  coaches," 
he  says.  "In  football,  wins  and  losses  are 
what  really  count." 

The  1982  Engineer  football  squad  will 


be  the  first  composed  entirely  of  players 
that  Weiss  recruited  personally.  He'll  have 
17  returning  starters  from  last  season's  6- 
2  team,  including  seven  All-New  England 
performers.  On  paper,  it  looks  like  WPI 
should  enjoy  its  third  consecutive  winning 
campaign.  But  Weiss,  though  confident, 
is  the  first  to  admit  that  sustained  excel- 
lence in  WPI  football  shouldn't  be  re- 
garded as  a  given  at  this  point. 

"Certain  ingredients  make  for  a  sound 
and  consistent  program,"  he  contends. 
"We'll  continue  to  push  our  sights  higher 
to  ensure  WPI's  football  future." 

Mark  Mandel 
Sports  Information  Director 


Alumni  Term 
Trustees  Elected 

Richard  A.  Davis,  '53,  S,  Merrill  Skeist, 
'40,  and  Leonard  H.  White,  '41,  were 
elected  on  May  29  by  the  WPI  Board  of 
Trustees  as  Alumni  Term  Trustees  effec- 
tive July  1,  1982. 

This  election  continues  the  transition  to 
an  eight-year  Alumni  Trustee  term.  As 
incumbents,  Davis  and  White  will  each 
serve  a  second  five-year  term,  until  June 
30, 1987.  Skeist's  eight-year  term  will  end 
June  30, 1990.  None  can  be  reelected  when 
his  present  term  expires.  Skeist  will  fill 
the  seat  of  Anson  C.  Fyler,  '45,  who  has 
served  as  an  Alumni  Trustee  for  ten  years 
and  as  Secretary  of  the  Corporation  since 
July  1,  1978. 

Richard  Davis  is  President  of  CCi,  Inc. , 
a  computer  •  sales  and  software  firm  in 
Waterford,  Connecticut.  He  is  active  in 
community,  church  and  business  affairs, 
serving  as  Director  of  the  United  Way  of 
Southeastern  Connecticut,  past  Warden 
of  St.  John's  Episcopal  Church  and  past 
Director  of  the  Greater  Portland  (Maine) 
Chamber  of  Commerce. 

He  serves  on  ,the  WPI  Alumni  Fund 
Board,  is  a  member  of  and  chairs  the  Pres- 


ident's Advisory  Council  and  was  Vice 
President  of  the  Alumni  Council  from  1975 
to  1976. 

Merrill  Skeist  is  President  of  Spellman 
High  Voltage  Electronics  Corporation, 
Plainview,  New  York.  He  is  a  leader  in 
religious  affairs,  serving  on  the  Board  of 
the  United  Jewish  Appeal  of  Greater  New 
York,  on  the  Board  and  Planning  Com- 
mittee of  the  Long  Island  Jewish  Hospital 
and  on  the  Board  of  the  Long  Island  Jew- 
ish "Y".  He  also  chaired  the  Class  of  1940 
40th  Reunion  Gift  Committee  and  is  a 
member  of  WPI's  President's  Advisory 
Council. 

Leonard  White  is  President  and  Treas- 
urer of  R.  H.  White  Construction  Co., 
Inc.,  Worcester,  President  of  the  Milford 
(Mass.)  Water  Company  and  President  of 
the  Whitinsville  (Mass.)  Water  Company. 
He  is  actively  involved  in  the  commercial, 
civic  and  religious  life  of  the  Worcester 
area,  serving  as  Director  of  the  Mechanics 
National  Bank,  Incorporator  of  the 
Worcester  Hahnemann  Hospital  and 
Trustee  and  member  of  the  Board  of 
Managers  of  the  Episcopal  Diocese  of 
Western  Massachusetts. 

At  WPI  he  is  a  member  and  past  Chair 
of  the  President's  Advisory  Council  and 
Chair  of  WPI's  Physical  Facilities  Com- 
mittee. 

Alumni  Term  Trustees  account  for  15 
of  the  33  seats  on  the  WPI  Board.  Alumni, 
through  the  Alumni  Council,  have  the  op- 
portunity to  propose  fellow  alumni  for 
Alumni  Trustee  nominations.  Two  chan- 
nels facilitate  such  proposals.  First,  alumni 
clubs  or  other  alumni  groups  may  submit 
to  the  Council  a  valid  proposal  with  the 
appropriate  number  of  signatures.  Sec- 
ond, the  Trustee  Search  Committee  of  the 
Alumni  Association  can  propose  candi- 
dates. In  either  case,  the  Alumni  Council 
then  meets  to  act  on  the  proposals  and  to 
make  mominations  to  the  WPI  Board  of 
Trustees,  which  votes  to  elect  the  Alumni 
Term  Trustees. 

Congratulations  are  due  Messrs.  Davis, 
Skeist  and  White.  KLM 


Davis 


Skeist 


While 


AUGUST  1982 


The  C  AD'CAM 
Connection 


From  drafting  board  to  plant  floor, 
computers  are  showing  the  way. 
Here's  the  WPI  story  on  this 
remarkable  field. 


By  Kenneth  McDonnell 


A  current  television  commercial 
boasts:  "If  you  had  a  favorite  air- 
L.liner,  the  all-new  Boeing  767  will 
soon  be  taking  its  place.  Coming  in  Sep- 
tember." Wider,  softer  seats,  more  of  them 
along  aisles  and  windows,  quieter  ride, 
and  improved  performance  are  the  antic- 
ipated benefits. 

First  time  you  settle  into  one  of  these 
flying  armchairs,  consider  the  technolog- 
ical advances  required  to  lift,  fly  and  land 
the  767  and  the  seemingly  endless  list  of 
entrants  into  the  race  for  airbus  suprem- 
acy. The  DC-10,  for  example,  contains 
three  miles  of  hydraulic  tubing  that  bends, 
turns  and  cavorts  throughout  the  airframe 
in  triplicate — each  a  further  measure  of 
safety. 

In  the  past,  fabrication  of  such  a  system 
would  have  required  literally  man-years 
of  slow,  expensive  handwork,  construct- 
ing mock-ups  of  the  plane's  tubing  with 
craftsmen  bending  and  fitting  each  piece 
as  they  proceeded.  Once  fitted,  the  tubes 
were  dismantled  and  stored  to  serve  as 
templates  for  other  pieces  of  tubing,  many 
of  these  also  bent  by  hand. 

Today,  computers  handle  much  of  this 
formerly  painstaking  work  at  a  fraction  of 
the  cost  and  time.  Designers  can,  using  a 
graphic  display  terminal  and  fiber  optic 
pen,  conceive  and  draw  the  configuration 
of  hydraulic  tubing  for  the  entire  aircraft 
based  on  design,  manufacturing  and  cost 


parameters  held  in  the  computer's  mem- 
ory banks.  Instead  of  retrieving  master 
tubes  from  a  warehouse,  the  designer  re- 
trieves key  structural  elements  from  the 
computer's  memory.  Then,  pressing  a 
button,  his  design  specifications  are  trans- 
mitted electronically  to  another  com- 
puter, which  controls  tube  bending  ma- 
chinery nearby.  Finally — presto — out 
comes  the  tube,  ready  for  assembly. 

The  most  dramatic  benefit  of  these  new 
technologies — computer-aided  design 
(CAD)  and  computer-aided  manufacture 
(CAM) — has  been  that  the  tubes  de- 
signed and  fabricated  under  computer 
control  fit  into  the  airplane  better,  with 
fewer  adjustments.  Three  years  ago,  as 
many  as  100  tubes  bent  by  hand  for  each 
McDonnell  Douglas  F-15  fighter  didn't  fit. 
Now,  using  CAD-CAM,  an  average  of 
just  four  tubes  per  plane  need  readjust- 
ment. Where  12  craftsmen  used  to  do  the 
bending  for  each  plane,  now  the  job  takes 
just  three — a  computer  technician  and  two 
assemblers. 

Says  WPI's  Professor  Kenneth  E.  Scott, 
'48,  ME,  "The  emerging  capabilities  of 
CAD-CAM  place  us  at  the  threshold  of 
an  industrial  revolution  of  uncharted  pro- 
portions. At  WPI,  we're  in  a  position  with 
our  newly  acquired  CAD  lab  to  prepare 
our  engineers  and  scientists  for  the  tre- 
mendous opportunities  the  CAD-CAM 
industry  offers." 


Since  its  installation  in  August  1981, 
the  WPI  CAD  Laboratory,  with  Ken 
Scott  as  its  director,  has  provided 
hands-on  teaching  and  research  experi- 
ences in  CAD  for  over  130  students  and 
faculty.  "Our  goal,"  he  says,  "is  not  so 
much  to  train  operators,  but  to  integrate 
CAD  into  the  WPI  educational  program 
so  that  graduates  will  be  familiar  with  the 
technology  and  have  the  know-how  to  ef- 
fectively manage  those  who  do  operate 
CAD-CAM  systems." 

While  the  more  exotic  CAD  and  ro- 
botics technologies  and  applications  may 
share  most  of  the  limelight  in  the  popular 
press  and  in  technical  circles,  CAM  con- 
tinues to  play  a  leading  role  in  manufac- 
turing technology,  as  it  has  for  over  20 
years.  "Robotics,"  says  Ben  Gordon,  '65, 
Associate  Professor  of  ME  and  technical 
director  of  the  Manufacturing  Engineer- 
ing Applications  Center  (MEAC),  "is  but 
one  small  part  of  CAM."  Actually,  he 
explains,  CAM  is  the  application  of  com- 
puter capabilities  to  manufacturing.  There 
are  still  many  common  operations — as- 
sembly of  intricate,  high-volume  parts,  for 
instance — which  today's  industrial  robots 
simply  cannot  handle  very  well.  But  in  all 
cases,  with  or  without  robotics,  CAD  and 
CAM  share  a  common  raison  d'etre:  to 
increase  productivity,  reduce  lead  times, 
improve  accuracy  and  quality,  and  make 
design  and  manufacturing  less  costly. 


WPI  JOURNAL 


At  left:  an  example  of  a  computer- 
created  three-dimensional  surface.  It 
represents  the  corner  of  a  pocket  on  a 
typical  forging. 

Many  observers  believe  that  truly  in- 
tegrated CAD-CAM  systems,  where  the 
best  of  CAD  and  the  most  advanced  of 
CAM  are  connected — both  physically  and 
through  integrated  computer  program- 
ming— may  provide  America's  best  chance 
for  competing  successfully  with  the  super- 
productive  Japanese  in  the  global  indus- 
trial ball  game. 

"The  U.S.  is  falling  behind  the  Japa- 
nese in  productivity,"  says  Professor 
Arthur  Gerstenfeld,  "and  only  through 
the  use  of  advanced  automation  can  this 
trend  be  reversed."  Gerstenfeld,  Robert 
H.  Stoddard  Professor  of  Management, 
is  particularly  interested  in  robotics  ap- 
plications of  CAM.'  So  far,  say  most  ex- 
perts, the  U.S.,  not  its  Japanese  counter- 
parts, has  made  the  most  dramatic  CAD- 
CAM  breakthroughs.  But  with  Japan's 
ability  to  apply  new  technologies,  those 
who  have  pioneered  CAD-CAM  devel- 
opments cannot  afford  to  rest  on  their 
laurels  for  long. 

"The  rules  of  the  game  are  changing 
constantly,"  Scott  maintains,  "and  vir- 
tually with  the  speed  of  light.  Our  com- 
mitment is  to  give  students  at  minimum 
a  solid  grounding  in  CAD-CAM,  so  they 
can  respond  effectively  to  change — how- 
ever great." 

The  CAD  of  CAD-CAM  is  essen- 
tially drafting  and  designing  with 
computer  graphics  displayed  on  a 
television  screen.  Anything  that  the  de- 
signer can  do  with  pencil,  compass,  and 
straightedge  can  be  done  mathematically 
with  CAD.  The  big  advantage,  Scott  says, 
is  that  the  computer  communicates  with 
the  designer  through  pictures.  This  ena- 
bles the  mind  to  absorb  the  information 
contained  in  the  diagram  much  faster  than 
it  could  through  a  conventional  comput- 
er's format,  numbers  and  words  on  the 
screen  or  on  paper.  "This,"  he  adds,  "and 
the  ability  to  make  changes  at  any  stage 
in  its  development — this  interactive  ca- 
pability— have  been  shown  to  improve 
design  productivity  by  a  factor  of  up  to 
5." 

Unfortunately,  he  says,  many  industrial 
users  don't  tap  CAD's  full  potential,  re- 
maining content  to  do  simple  drafting.  Al- 


ready, many  systems  are  capable  of  con- 
ducting other  operations,  like  determining 
mass  properties,  modeHng  finite  ele- 
ments, and  simulating  temperature  and 
mechanical  stresses.  In  the  future,  such 
capabihties  will  become  common,  ena- 
bhng  the  computer's  huge  data  banks  to 
churn  out  lengthy  calculations  and  de- 
tailed analytical  resuUs.  This  will  add  sig- 
nificantly to  CAD's  time  and  cost  savings 
over  conventional  methods  of  design  and 
manufacturing. 

The  real  heart  of  every  CAD  system — 
and  of  all  CAM  operations  for  that  mat- 
ter— is  programming  of  the  computer  that 
drives  the  graphics  displays  and  analytical 
operations  or,  in  CAM,  the  automated 
manufacturing  machinery.  It  is  not  un- 
common for  legions  of  programming  wiz- 
ards to  labor  long  on  one  program  for  one 
CAD  system,  writing  and  typing  in  the 
sometimes  millions  of  commands  re- 
quired for  each  operation.  All  this,  so  that 
when  the  user  pushes  a  keyboard  button 
or  uses  a  light  pen  on  the  system's  graphic 
tablet,  the  thousands  of  lines  and  spHnes 


(curves)  that  form  the  graphic  display  can 
appear  on  screen. 

Despite  the  substantial  benefits  at- 
tributable to  CAD,  say  many  ob- 
servers, the  real  harvest  will  only 
be  reaped  by  linking  computer-aided  de- 
sign and  manufacturing  functions.  CAD 
assists  the  design  engineer  to  develop,  de- 
sign, analyze,  and  describe  products.  CAM 
helps  the  production  engineer  to  plan  the 
method  of  manufacture;  to  design  tools, 
fixtures,  testing  rigs,  and  gauges;  to  pre- 
pare factory  planning  layouts;  to  keep  track 
of  inventory;  and — perhaps  most  impor- 
tantly— to  drive  computer  numerical  con- 
trol (CNC)  machine  tools,  measuring 
equipment  and,  ultimately,  robotics. 

The  basic  idea  behind  most  CAM 
equipment  has  been  with  us  for  over  two 
decades:  to  instruct  machines  to  do  te- 
dious, repetitive  manufacturing  tasks — 
"the  things  humans  are  worst  at,"  says 
Ben  Gordon.  NC  milling  machines,  lathes, 
injection  molders,  and  other  equipment 
produce  the  same  part  over  and  over,  re- 


An  industry  in  transition 


'For  the  story  of  robotics  at  WPI,  see  "Get- 
ting a  Gripper  on  the  Future,"  coming  in 
the  February  1983  WPI  Journal. 


CAD-CAM  vendors  may  constitute  the 
fastest  growing  industry  around.  In 
1981  Merrill  Lynch  predicted  overall  in- 
dustry sales  of  $750  million,  soaring  to 
$2.2  billion  by  1984.  Presently,  some  5,000 
CAD  systems  are  in  use  worldwide.  By 
1985,  that  number  should  jump  to  80,000, 
and  new  combatants  for  CAD-CAM's 
bonanza  are  sure  to  emerge  in  the  battle 
for  larger  bites  of  this  expanding  pie. 

Besides  designing  and  drafting  for  man- 
ufacturing applications,  CAD  finds  new 
applications  in  a  host  of  other  fields,  such 
as  integrated  circuit  design,  plant  design 
and  documentation,  wiring  design,  and 
mapping. 

Presently,  the  utility  mapping,  carto- 
graphic and  demographic  portions  make 
up  only  3  percent  of  the  CAD-CAM  in- 
dustry. But  the  expected  annual  growth 
rate  of  this  segment  is  the  largest. 

Turnkey  seems  to  be  the  catchword  in 
CAD-CAM  today.  Turnkey  refers  to  sys- 
tems for  which  vendors  provide  the  com- 
puter and  the  graphics  display  and  pe- 
ripheral devices  needed  for  data  storage 
and  manipulations  and  "hard"  (paper) 
copy  output.  Also  supplied  is  the  appli- 
cable software,  or  programming,  which, 
when  coupled  with  the  graphics  hard- 


ware, forms  the  interface  between  the  user 
and  the  computer. 

At  Autofact  III,  a  mind-bogghng  trade 
fair  of  turnkey  CAD-CAM  hard-  and 
software  held  in  November  1981,  dozens 
of  vendors  brought  the  future  of  design 
and  manufacturing  to  a  Detroit  conven- 
tion hall.  At  this  one  show  alone,  Com- 
putervision  Corporation,  the  industry 
leader,  introduced  36  new  products.  The 
show's  offerings  ranged  from  the  com- 
paratively mundane  to  the  exotic — from 
mechanical  and  VLSI  design  and  numer- 
ical control  tool  path  generation  to  ar- 
chitectural and  structural  design  .  .  .  from 
systems  offering  X-ray  windows  display- 
ing the  inside  of  a  designed  part,  to  color 
displays  capable  of  generating  over  1,000 
combinations  of  hues  and  intensities  .  .  . 
from  systems  with  solid  geometric  mod- 
eling with  color,  to  those  capable  of  such 
analytic  techniques  as  vibration  tolerance 
tests  on  automobiles  under  simulated  per- 
formance conditions. 

All  this  and  much  more  was  new  at  Au- 
tofact III — and  all  in  the  name  of  pro- 
ductivity gains.  Yes,  it  would  appear  that 
the  U.S.  is  indeed  serious  about — de- 
pending on  your  viewpoint — regaining  or 
honing  its  productivity  edge. 


AUGUST  1982 


In  WPI's  CAD  lab,  director  Ken  Scott  works  at  a  terminal, 
predicts,  "will  open  whole  new  fields." 


'This  technology,"  he 


ceiving  their  marching  orders  automati- 
cally by  reading  and  re-reading  coded  in- 
structions from  paper  or  metallic  tape 
perforated  with  holes  that  translate  into 
three-dimensional  machine  motion. 

Formerly  punched  manually  by  expert 
machinists,  these  tapes  are  now  coded  di- 
rectly from  the  computer,  eliminating  much 
of  the  error-prone  and  inefficient  human 
factor.  Today,  a  competent  computer 
programmer  is  involved  in  the  coding.  But 
already  this  step  is  being  eliminated.  "Ul- 
timately," says  Gordon,  "we'll  generate 
an  idea  on  the  CAD  screen,  and  zing, 
through  intergrated  CAD-CAM  the  out- 
put from  that  system  will  not  be  a  punched 
tape,  but  the  machined  part  itself." 

"In  the  first  five  years  of  the  CAM  lab," 
says  Gordon,  "we've  grown  from  ten  stu- 
dents and  one  teacher — me — to  46  stu- 
dents, several  master's  degree  candidates, 
and  three  instructors."  Physically  tying 
CAD  to  CAM  is  the  logical  objective  of 
the  WPI  program.  Presently,  he  says,  CAD 
and  CAM  at  WPI  are  essentially  separate. 
The  CAD  lab  is  located  in  Higgins  Labs, 
with  the  CAM  and  robotics  lab  situated 
in  Washburn  Shops.  But  when  renovation 
of  Washburn  begins  (planned  for  early 
1983),  CAM  will  move  to  Higgins  Labs, 
bringing  the  two  into  close  enough  prox- 


imity to  allow  "hardwire"  (electronic) 
connection.  "With  installation  of  the  new 
CAD  lab  and  the  planned  relocation  of 
CAM,"  says  Scott,  "we  have  an  oppor- 
tunity to  create  a  learning  environment  in 
which  our  CAD  and  CAM  facilities  are 
fully  integrated." 

"Actually,"  says  Stephen  Morgan,  '82 
ME,  of  Worcester,  "the  present  physical 
layout  of  the  labs  led  me  to  choose  my 
Major  Qualifying  Project  (MQP)."  As- 
sisted by  Robert  Neville,  '82  ME,  of 
Holyoke,  he  refined  a  system  by  which 
WPI's  CAD  and  CAM  labs  can  be  more 
easily  linked.  "Before  our  Bridgeport  three 
axis  CNC  milling  machines  can  compre- 
hend the  computer  signals  of  our  Com- 
putervision  Interactive  Graphics  Sys- 
tem," he  explains,  "we  must  put  the  signals 
through  a  post-processing  unit,  which 
conditions  the  computer  program  signals 
to  the  needs  of  the  Bridgeport." 

Now,  says  Morgan,  who  has  since  gone 
to  work  for  Pratt  &  Whitney,  "by  'dump- 
ing' the  post-processed  signals  onto  the 
floppy  disk  of  an  Apple  minicomputer  and 
carrying  it  to  a  similar  system  wired  to  the 
CAM  equipment,  we've  effectively  elim- 
inated the  need  for  manual  coding  of  the 
Bridgeport  CNC"  system."  Successful  de- 
.sign  and  manufacture  of  a  machined  part. 


using  WPI's  CAD-CAM  labs,  was  the 
product  of  his  MQP. 

"The  designer  could  also  hardwire  the 
two  computers  and  the  post  processor," 
says  Gordon,  but  in  either  case  the  goal 
is  to  go  from  idea  generation  to  machined 
part  without  having  to  use  manual  inter- 
vention. 

Similarly,  using  integrated  CAD-CAM, 
Bruce  Qlsen,  '78,  a  CAM  group  robotics 
instructor,  has  programmed  one  of 
MEAC's  robots  to  recreate  (with  pen  on 
paper)  the  signature  he  wrote  with  the 
light  pen  on  the  system's  graphic  tablet. 

WPI's  CAD  program  has  re- 
ceived the  sustained  support 
of  both  public  and  private 
groups.  Start-up  monies  for  the  CAD  lab 
were  provided  by  the  Bay  State  Skills 
Commission  and  the  25th  Reunion  gift  of 
the  Class  of  1956.  WPI  funds  have  been 
used  to  prepare  the  620-square-foot  lab, 
including  installation  of  climate  control 
equipment. 

But  the  heart  of  the  lab — the  computer 
itself,  the  terminals,  the  video  screens, 
paper  printer  and  program  software — 
constitute  the  generous  gift  of  Compu- 
tervision  Corporation  of  Burlington,  Mass. 
The  CAD  lab  is  already  providing  grad- 
uates with  the  kind  of  hands-on  knowl- 
edge employers  actively  seek. 

Local  support  of  student  projects  link- 
ing CAD  and  CAM  has  also  been  grat- 
ifying. Says  Scott,  "Our  CAD  program 
provides  a  natural  interface  between  stu- 
dents' educational  objectives  and  the  needs 
of  area  companies  interested  in  exploring 
applications  of  CAD-CAM  to  their  own 
operations."  Already,  Wyman-Gordon 
Company,  Jamesbury  Corporation,  Mor- 
gan Construction  Company,  and  New 
England  Electric  have  sponsored  MQPs, 
with  additional  interest  widening.  Proj- 
ects normally  involve  using  the  Compu- 
tervision  system  to  solve  existing  engi- 
neering design  problems. 

Working  with  Wyman-Gordon,  for  ex- 
ample, Stewart  Farnham,  Jr.,  '82  ME,  of 
Spring  Hill,  Fla.,  is  studying  the  use  of 
CAD  to  expedite  the  manufacture  of 
forgings. 

According  to  Farnham,  conventional 
die  manufacture  requires  construction  of 
wood  and  clay  models,  from  which  a  fi- 
berglass mold  is  made.  Then,  a  tracer 
milling  machine  produces  the  actual  forg- 
ing die.  Without  CAD,  the  entire  process 
can  take  months  to  complete.  But  by  de- 
signing the  geometry  of  the  die  on  a  CAD 
system,  the  die  can  be  machined  directly 
on  a  CNC  milling  machine,  eliminating 


WPI  JOURNAL 


the  entire  modeling  procedure  and  cutting 
design  and  production  time  dramatically. 

Comments  Sanjay  Shah,  research  proj- 
ect engineer  at  Wyman-Gordon,  "The  type 
of  cooperative  relationship  we've  estab- 
lished with  WPI  is  highly  beneficial  to  both 
education  and  industry." 

Besides  local  project  interest,  plans  are 
under  way  to  offer  a  series  of  intensive 
mini-courses  to  practicing  engineers,  de- 
signers, drafters,  and  managers.  Three  to 
five  days  long,  these  workshops  will  com- 
prise lectures,  demonstrations,  and,  says 
Scott,  "lots  of  laboratory  exercises." 


Where,  one  might  ask,  is  CAD- 
CAM  headed? 
"At  the  rate  things  are 
going,"  says  Ben  Gordon  philosophically, 
"one  would  be  foohsh  to  suggest  that  the 
computer's  capabilities  are  either  limited 
or  boundless.  We  sometimes  tend  to  for- 
get that  computers  are  no  more  than  ma- 
chines of  and  for  their  builders.  But  it's 
clear  to  me  that  we've  only  scratched  the 
surface  of  computer  technology  in  all  its 
applications." 

In  design  and  manufacturing,  he  says, 
the  ultimate  is  the  factory  of  the  future — 


the  human-less  manufacturing  plant.  Al- 
ready the  Japanese  use  robots  to  produce 
other  robots,  in  a  factory  where  auto- 
mation has  virtually  eliminated  the  need 
for  human  labor;  where  castings  (which 
are  manufactured  using  integrated  CAD- 
CAM  methods)  are  stored  in  automated 
warehouses;  where  unmanned  carriers 
transport  these  castings  to  CNC  milling 
machines,  from  which  they  return  by  more 
unmanned  carriers  to  yet  another  auto- 
mated warehouse,  there  to  await  auto- 
mated assembly  and  shipping. 
One  man  runs  the  show. 


People  and  Computers:  Part  1 


Paul  Bresten  looks  Uke  a  union  man. 
Then  again,  he  looks  like  a  manage- 
ment type.  Truth  is,  he  is — or  has  been — 
both  at  General  Electric  Company's  Wil- 
mington, Mass.  plant.  Bresten,  '83  EE, 
of  Lynn,  systems  operator  and  proctor  of 
the  WPI  CAD  lab,  has  seen  both  sides  of 
the  fence  and  has  walked,  little  to  his  de- 
light, the  middle  ground. 

Prior  to  taking  leave  from  GE  to  attend 
WPI  in  1981,  he  was  a  unionized  com- 
puter drafter.  As  a  loyal  member  of  the 
International  Federation  of  Professional 
and  Technical  Engineers,  he  served  first 
as  recording  secretary  and  then  as  chief 
steward  for  two  plants.  Then,  while  at 
WPI,  Bresten  was  offered  a  summer  post 
at  the  Wilmington  plant  supervising  12 
CAD  designers  while  also  conducting  a 
special  GE  project  interfacing  the  CAD 
system  with  a  computer-controlled  circuit 
board  tester. 

Suddenly,  he  found  himself  facing  his 
former  colleagues,  not  as  a  union  brother 
but  as  their  supervisor.  "In  a  few  cases," 
he  says,  "I  found  myself  the  target  of 
grievances!" 

People  problems  surfaced,  he  recalls, 
when  company  officials  determined  that 
round-the-clock  utilization  was  required 
to  make  the  expensive  CAD  equipment 
cost-effective.  Real  fears  surfaced  among 
union  drafters,  who  had  ascended  the  sen- 
iority system  using  conventional,  non- 
computerized drafting  equipment  and 
techniques.  Suddenly  these  men,  many  of 
them  middle-aged,  faced  a  two-pronged 
threat — the  need  to  modernize  their  work 
methods  and  the  looming  possibility  of 
having  to  work  the  dreaded  second  or  third 
shift,  from  which  their  long  climb  up  the 
seniority  ladder  had,  they  presumed,  ex- 
empted them. 

Meanwhile,  management,  faced  with 


the  need  to  fill  two  additional  shifts,  hired 
draftsmen — many  of  them  younger  and 
more  adaptable — who  saw  the  need  to 
learn  new  skills  not  as  a  threat  but  as  an 
opportunity.  As  these  new  men  grew  more 
proficient,  management  felt  pressure  from 
both  camps  to  award  promotions  based 
on  either  seniority  or  productivity. 

Eventually,  through  the  grievance  pro- 
cedure, many  of  the  major  personnel 
problems  were  ironed  out.  Today  a  con- 
ventional drafting  system  to  update  older, 
manually  produced  drawings  exists  side 
by  side  with  the  CAD  operation,  used  to 
make  new  designs.  The  CAD  operation 
runs  both  first  and  second  shifts,  while  the 
manual  drafting  runs  first  shift  only. 

And,  oh  yes,  Bresten  plans  to  return  to 
GE  after  graduation,  this  time  as  a  prod- 
uct design  engineer. 


Part  2 


The  human  element  in  CAM  differs 
somewhat  from  CAD,"  says  Ben 
Gordon.  CAM  operators  normally  tend 
to  CNC  tools,  he  says.  And  because  the 
technology  has  been  around  longer  than 
CAD,  the  labor  force  has  had  more  time 
to  adapt  to  the  changing  technology. 
Hence,  replacing  perforated  paper  tape 
with  computers  tends  to  be  a  much  less 
harrowing  experience  than  replacing  pen- 
cil and  straightedge  with  video  screen  and 
keyboard.  "It's  the  automation,  the  ill- 
perceived  notion  that  CAD  operators  must 
also  be  computer  programmers — that 
scares  the  uninitiated." 
Further  developments  in  CAM,  he  be- 

Professor  Ben  Gordon  demonstrates 
integrated  CAD-CAM  applications. 


lieves,  won't  displace  CNC  operators,  but 
many  jobs  will  be  upgraded  to  system- 
monitoring  or  sophisticated  maintenance 
posts.  Many  workers  will  require  addi- 
tional training,  almost  always  at  the  com- 
pany's expense. 

He  adds:  The  initial  cost  of  CAD-CAM 
systems — often  in  the  millions — coupled 
with  management's  attention  to  short-run 
performance  curves,  creates  tremendous 
pressure  to  make  capital  expenditures  cost- 
effective  within  a  relatively  short  time 
frame.  "Despite  these  pressures,"  he  says, 
"CAD-CAM  promises  the  brightest  fu- 
ture for  many  manufacturers." 


AUGUST  1982 


You'd  think  that  the  rain  would  have 
drenched  our  spirits  as  it  did  our  slick- 
ers. But  one  look  at  the  multitude  assem- 
bled told  otherwise.  This  was  Reunion 
1982,  a  wet  but  wonderful  weekend  when 
a  near-record  number  of  alumni  families 
returned  to  the  Hill  to  renew  friendships, 
savor  a  touch  of  nostalgia — and  stories 
that  have  grown  with  the  years — catch  up 
on  the  latest  news  about  their  alma  mater, 
and  simply  enjoy  themselves. 


The  celebration  began  with  a  bright  sky 

overhead,  but  in  no  time  the  monsoons 
clamped  down  on  all  of  New  England, 
dumping  eight  inches  of  the  wet  stuff  on 
Worcester  in  three  days.  So,  with  the  out- 
of-doors  effectively  off-limits,  hospitality 
suites  quickly  became  focal  points  for 
sometimes  years-awaited  greetings  of 
classmates,  creating  a  place  of  real  warmth 
in  the  eye  of  the  storm.  Throughout  the 
weekend,  emotions  ran  high: 


Welcome 
Back! 


Peter  H.  Horstmann,  '55,  president 
of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association 


At  the  70th  Reunion  of  the  Class  of 

1912  are  (from  left)  J.  Francis 

Granger,  Henry  Rickett  and  Eugene 

Powers — with  Mrs.  Ruth  Taylor,  whose 

late  husband  is  remembered  with  the 

annual  Herbert  F.  Taylor  award  for 

service  to  WPI. 


}Vhat  else  can  you 
_    '  say?  The  weatk 

wasn  't  the  best,  but  for  the  L 
Toomajians  and  everyone  else,  ti 
weekend  was  brigi 
with  good  cheei 


-Sf  i  ta^ 


8        WPI  JOURNAL 


A  pictorial 

voyage  through  a 

wet  but  wonderful 

reunion  weekend 


•  On  Friday  evening,  when  everyone  en- 
joyed the  timeless  sounds  of  the  Ragtime 
Rowdies,  both  at  the  annual  New  Eng- 
land clambake  and  at  the  Goat's  Head 
Pub. 

•  On  Saturday,  when,  between  tours  of 
the  campus  and  a  host  of  demonstrations 
and  panel  discussions,  the  General  Re- 
union Luncheon  was  held  in  Harrington 
Auditorium.  Highlights  were  presenta- 
tions of  two  Goddard  Awards  for  out- 


standing professional  achievement,  two 
Taylor  Awards  for  service  to  WPI  and  the 
Alumni  Association,  and  presentation  of 
three  major  gifts  to  the  college  from  the 
25th,  40th  and  50th  reunion  classes. 
•  And  finally,  at  Sunday  brunches,  where 
pledges  to  keep  in  closer  touch  could  be 
heard  from  all  quarters. 

This  and  much,  much  more  the  hearty 
will  keep  as  memories  of  Reunion  Week- 
end 1982. 


Len  Huntoon,  '62  (left),  and  Brian 
O'Connell,  '62,  with  Pat  Moran,  '65  (center). 
General  Reunion  Chair. 


WPI  Trustee  Raymond  J.  Forkey, 

'40  (left)  and  President  Cranch 

(right)  congratulate  John  M. 

Townsend,  Jr.,  '42,  and  C. 

Chapin  Cutler,  ' 37— recipients 

of  the  Robert  H.  Goddard  award 

for  professional  achievement. 


The  50th  Reunion 
Class  of  1932 


The  Jack  Herrs—he's  Class  of  '22— 

stock  up  on  WPI  memorabilia  at 

the  bookstore. 


With  Professor  Kenneth  E.  Scott,  '48,  on  hand, 
G.  Albert  Anderson,  '51  (left)  and  Julius  A.  Palley,  '46, 
accept  the  Herbert  F.  Taylor  A  ward  for  Distinguished  Service 
to  WPI  from  President  Edmund  Cranch. 


10        WPI  JOURNAL 


PROTECTS 


Models  of 
Mystic  Memories 

John  F.  Salzig,  '83,  ME,  and 
Eric  R.  Schade,  '83,  ME 
Prof.  Herbert  Beall,  CM,  and 
Prof.  James  P.  Hanlan, 
Humanities,  Advisors 


In  her  heyday,  Socony  IV  was  one  of 
hundreds  of  tugboats  that  plied  the  har- 
bors of  New  York  City.  Built  in  1912,  she 
was  special  only  because  she  typified  the 
transfer  tugs  that  have  played  a  role  in 
industry  wholly  inconsistent  with  their 
modest  size.  Next  to  the  behemoths  they 
so  effectively  push  around,  tugs  are,  after 
all,  cute. 

Mystic  Seaport,  perhaps  Connecticut's 
finest  monument  to  America's  past,  is  the 
site  of  several  models  conceived  and  built 
by  WPI  students.  If  you've  been  lucky 
enough  to  visit  the  Mystic  museum  lately, 
you  may  have  seen  scale  models  of  an  old 
Uft  dock — a  device  that  raised  large  sailing 
vessels  above  the  water  line  for  construc- 
tion and  repair — and  a  19th  century  rope 
manufacturing  plant.  Both  are  working 
replicas,  and  both  were  constructed  at 
WPI.  And  if  you  can  manage  a  trip  to  this 
authentic  village  of  yesteryear,  you'll  find 
on  permanent  display  Mystic's  first  scale 
model  of  America's  most  beloved  and  sto- 
ried watercraft — the  tugboat.  In  this  case, 
a  model  of  Socony  IV. 

Constructed  on  a  1:46  scale  at  a  "cost" 
of  300  to  400  working  hours,  the  model 
is  a  labor  of  love  and  the  IQP  of  two  WPI 
seniors,  John  Salzig,  of  Leonia,  New  Jer- 
sey and  Eric  Schade,  of  Glastonbury, 
Connecticut. 

To  accomplish  what  turned  into  more 
of  a  venture  than  they  had  anticipated, 
Salzig  and  Schade  reHed  on  their  individ- 
ual talents  and  some  captivating  twists  of 
fate.  Salzig,  an  experienced  wood-carver, 
fashioned  the  solid  hull  of  laminated  pop- 
lar from  the  blueprints  supplied  by  Mys- 
tic; while  Schade,  who  plans  a  career  in 


models  design,  produced  the  cabin  and 
deck  from  bent  basswood,  plexiglass  and 
tooled  brass. 

But  after  extensive  preparatory  re- 
search on  Socony  IV,  several  unknowns 
remained.  Where,  for  instance,  is  she  sta- 
tioned today?  Notes  Schade:  "Though  we 
still  don't  know,  we  were  able  to  find  an 
old  tugman  who  worked  her  in  the  New 
York  harbor  decades  ago  and  remem- 
bered much  of  her  history." 

What's  more,  in  each  of  the  five  times 
she  was  sold,  her  color  scheme  changed 
to  suit  her  new  owner.  So  what  would  suit 
her  modelers?  "By  sheer  luck,"  recalls 
Salzig,  "in  talking  with  friends  about  my 
project,  my  dad  met  up  with  an  old-timer 
who  worked  her  when  she  was  maroon 
and  grey,  with  yellow  trim — as  it  turns 
out,  pretty  appropriate  for  a  couple  of 
model  builders  from  WPI." 


Life  Questions  at  NASA 

Paul  Maselbas,  '83,  CE 

Prof.  Herbert  Yankee,  Advisor 

Quick!  True  or  false:  The  fire  suppressor 
Halon  1301  completely  extinguishes  all 
types  of  fires. 

If  you  don't  work  around  computers  or 
other  essential  electronic  equipment,  you 
might  not  have  the  foggiest  suggestion  of 
an  answer  to  this  query.  But  don't  feel 
alone.  As  WPI  sejiior  Paul  Maselbas 
learned  during  his  recent  IQP,  engineers 
and  technicians  at  NASA's  Kennedy  Space 
Center  (KSC),  who  work  with  some  of 
the  nation's  most  sophisticated  and  ex- 
pensive electronics  and  who  are  protected 
by  the  agent,  often  don't  know  what  you 
may  not  know:  the  capabilities  and  op- 
eration of  Halon  1301. 

Since  1973,  NASA  has  used  Halon  1301, 
a  revolutionary  fire  extinguisher,  in  com- 
munications, computer  and  electronic  data 
storage  areas.  To  be  sure,  protection  of 
ground-based    electronics    facilities    de- 


mands the  utmost  in  fire  protection  tech- 
nology. For  NASA,  Halon  1301  meets  the 
agency's  exacting  standards. 

Though  the  mechanism  by  which  Halon 
1301  works  is  not  yet  completely  under- 
stood, most  fire  protection  experts  be- 
heve  the  agent  acts  chemically  with  a  fire, 
actually  breaking  the  complex  chain  of 
hundreds  of  separate  events  which  occur 
in  the  burning  process.  (Other,  more 
common  agents,  like  carbon  dioxide  or 
water,  act  physically  by  smothering  or 
cooling  the  fire.)  Upon  discharge,  the  col- 
orless, odorless  gas  completely  floods  the 
room,  developing  its  effectiveness  very 
rapidly. 

The  advantages  of  Halon  1301  over  car- 
bon dioxide  or  water  are  significant. 
Though  much  more  expensive  than  either, 
Halon  1301  can  penetrate  areas  inacces- 
sible to  these  agents,  such  as  cabinets  or 
sub-floor  spaces;  electronic  equipment  can 
remain  operational  during  discharge;  and 
equipment  cleanup  is  virtually  elimi- 
nated. 

When  Maselbas  made  the  trek  down  to 
Florida's  KSC,  his  objectives  numbered 
four:  to  research  Halon  1301  and  its  use 
at  KSC;  to  test,  through  a  short  ques- 
tionnaire, the  knowledge  of  NASA  per- 
sonnel about  Halon  1301;  to  educate  these 
employees,  should  their  knowledge  be 
found  lacking,  by  means  of  an  informative 
brochure;  and,  in  the  process,  to  get  closer 
to  the  nation's  space  program  than  he  ever 
dreamed  possible. 

In  general,  he  learned  that  most  of  the 
60  workers  surveyed  were  quite  unin- 
formed about  Halon  1301  systems — in  fact 
nearly  20  percent  weren't  even  aware  that 
their  areas  were  protected  by  Halon  1301. 
Clearly,  Maselbas's  resulting  pamphlet, 
"Halon  1301  Fire  Suppression  Systems," 
was  needed  to  supplement  NASA's  vital 
employee-training  program. 

As  to  Maselbas's  fourth  objective,  to 
get  really  close  to  the  space  program,  he 
recalls,  "It  was  an  unreal  experience.  I 
gained  maximum  civilian  security  clear- 
ance, got  to  see  a  space  shuttle  Columbia 
take-off  up  close,  and  actually  climbed  all 
over  the  shuttle  soon  after  it  returned  from 
space."  The  NASA  people,  he  says,  are 
very  receptive  to  the  types  of  projects  em- 
bodied in  the  IQP  program. 

And,  if  you're  like  the  52  percent  of  the 
survey  respondents  who  said  that,  yes, 
Halon  1301  does  completely  extinguish  all 
types  of  fires,  you'd  join  this  majority  in 
being  incorrect.  The  effectiveness  of  the 
agent  on  a  Class  A,  or  "deep-seated,"  fire 
is  questionable,  though  research  is  now 
under  way  to  solve  this  shortcoming. 


AUGUST  1982 


II 


This  was  not  a  delivery  of  scientific 
gospel  according  to  a  Nobel  laureate. 
Nor  an  emeritus  professor  returned  for  a 
guest  lecture.  Nor  even  the  final  appear- 
ance of  a  retiring  professor  who'd  won  the 
respect  of  legions  of  students  through  de- 
cades of  teaching. 

Still,  when  Dr.  Dougal  Drysdale  drew 
to  a  close  the  final  lecture  of  his  four- 
month  stay  at  WPI,  he  removed  his  glasses, 
looked  up  at  his  graduate  class  in  fire  dy- 
namics and  simply  said,  "I  guess  that  does 
it." 

For  a  long  moment  his  students  made 
no  move  to  query  the  professor,  or  even 
to  leave  the  classroom.  Silence.  Then,  one 
by  one,  chairs  shuffled,  students  rose,  and 
the  applause  that  met  Drysdale  head-on 
fully  captured  the  sentiment  that  the  en- 
tire WPI  community  has  come  to  own  for 
this  gentle,  brilliant  man  from  Scotland. 

Drysdale.  Lecturer  (equivalent  of  our 
Assistant  Professor)  at  the  University  of 
Edinburgh,  is  one  of  the  world's  literally 
handful  of  authorities  on  fire  dynamics — 
the  study  of  how  materials  ignite  and  burn, 
how  heat  is  transferred  in  fires,  how  smoke 
moves  in  buildings,  how  fire  grows  from 
ignition  to  full-room  involvement,  and  so 
on. 

His  mission  at  WPI?  Professor  David 
Lucht,  Director  of  WPI's  Center  for 
Firesafety  Studies,  explains:  "Through  a 
generous  grant  from  Connecticut  General 
Corporation/Aetna  Insurance  Company, 
Dougal  is  here  to  write  a  textbook  for 
graduate-level  study  in  fire  dynamics.  In 
addition,  he  has  now  completed  teaching 
WPI's  first  graduate  course  in  this  vital 
field." 

Adds  Professor  Robert  Fitzgerald,  '53, 
who  provided  the  spark  for  establishing 
the  WPI  Center,  "WPI  and  Edinburgh 
have  developed  an  ongoing  partnership  in 
offering  master's  degree  programs  in  Fire- 
safety  Engineering.  But  until  now,  not  one 
textbook  has  been  written  at  a  level  that 
covers  fire  behavior  principles  in  the  form 
needed  for  engineering  education." 

According  to  Drysdale,  in  firesafety  en- 
gineering it  is  essential  not  only  to  rec- 
ognize fire  risks,  but  also  to  assess  their 
significance — to  quantify,  model  and  pre- 
dict these  risks.  "Only  then  can  buildings 
be  designed,  built  and  renovated  to  max- 
imize firesafety  in  a  cost-effective  way." 

Drysdalc's  interest  in  modeling  com- 
bustion stems  from  his  years  of  research. 
Having  earned  his  baccalaureate  degree 
at  Edinburgh  and  his  PhD  at  Cambridge 
and  worked  as  a  postdoctoral  research  fel- 
low at  the  University  of  Toronto,  Drys- 
dale jomed  a  leading-edge  research  group 


12        WPI  JOURNAL 


at  England's  University  of  Leeds  in  1967. 
For  seven  years,  he  and  his  colleagues 
conducted  exhaustive  experiments  to  bring 
together  the  principles,  data,  and  mod- 
eling techniques  that  would  enable  engi- 
neers and  designers  to  better  predict  fire 
behavior. 

He  expands:  "In  the  oxidation  of  a  fuel — 
gasoline,  for  example— the  end  products 
are  carbon  dioxide  and  water.  But  be- 
tween these  two  phases,  hundreds  of  in- 
dividual reactions  occur,  some  fast,  some 


Dougal 

Drysdale: 

Fire  Man 


by  Kenneth  McDonnell 


In  short  order, 

this  flying  Scot  has 

come  to  WPI  and  left 

his  mark  on  firesafety 

engineering — worldwide. 


slow,  some  which  control  the  rates  of  other 
reactions."  The  Leeds  group  has  been 
working  to  systematize  all  of  these  single- 
step  reactions  to  make  more  reliable  the 
combustion-modeling  process.  "So  when 
we  put  it  all  in  the  computer  and  turn  the 
handle,  we  can  predict  how  the  combus- 
tion we're  trying  to  measure  will  behave." 

The  firesafety  program  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Edinburgh,  now  well  established, 
wasn't  always  so,  says  Drysdale.  "In  1973, 
the  University  granted  the  program  a  ten- 
year  trial  run,  so  to  speak.  If  the  subject 
we  proposed  teaching  proved  to  be  aca- 
demically worthwhile,  we  would  become 
a  permanent  department  in  the  Univer- 
sity." Initially  called  Fire  Engineering,  the 
department  soon  renamed  itself  Fire- 
safety Engineering.  "Under  the  old  name," 
he  says  wryly,  "people  outside  the  de- 
partment couldn't  decide  whether  we  were 
there  to  start  or  to  put  out  fires." 

Drysdale  says  he's  very  favorably  im- 
pressed with  WPI.  "The  ideal,"  he  notes, 
"is  great,  and  it  seems  to  be  working," 
producing  engineers  and  scientists  who 
have  been  "stretched"  in  the  appropriate 
areas,  particularly  through  MQPs  and 
IQPs.  "As  undergraduates  they're  doing 
work  often  associated  with  graduate-level 
studies,  generating  thesis-like  documents 
over  a  long  period  of  time,  and  passing  a 
test  of  their  competency  in  an  entire  field 
of  study.  This  is  a  valuable  experience, 
demonstrating  to  students  the  relevance 
to  the  outside  world  of  what  they're  doing 
at  WPI." 

Dougal  flew  back  to  his  beloved  Scot- 
land in  May.  But  he  leaves  behind  the 
manuscript  for  the  first-ever  textbook  on 
fire  dynamics,  which,  according  to  Bob 
Fitzgerald,  will  be  welcomed  for  its  lit- 
erary quality  as  much  as  for  its  content. 

But  Dougal  leaves  behind  much  more. 
He  leaves  with  all  who  came  to  know  him — 
whether  in  the  classroom,  in  our  homes, 
in  the  WPI  glee  club  or  on  the  jogging 
circuits  of  Worcester — the  distinct  feeling 
that  we  are  fortunate  to  have  known  him. 

We'll  remember  his  uncommon  good- 
will and  sensitivity  when  we  recall  his 
farewell  picnic  at  the  home  of  WPI  As- 
sistant Admissions  Director  Doug  ('67) 
and  Carolyn  Pike.  Attired  in  his  clan 
kilt, Dougal  concocted  the  traditional 
Scottish  delicacy,  haggis — "You  boil  the 
devil  out  of  a  sheep's  entrails,  add  oat- 
meal and  herbs,  and  serve  it  with  boiled 
turnips  from  the  stomach  sack  of  the 
sheep."  (Yum!)  Then,  after  serving  it  to 
the  guests  assembled,  he  proceeded  to 
"strut  his  stuff"  with  this  Scot's  version 
of  America's  disco  hustle. 


Fire.  Thick,  choking  smoke  billows 
up  through  a  high-rise  hotel  in  Chi- 
cago. "A  classic,  one-room  mat- 
tress fire"  touched  off  by  a  smoldering 
cigarette,  says  the  local  fire  commis- 
sioner. It  kills  four  people,  injures  20. 

In  Baltimore,  a  candle  tips  over  in  a 
rowhouse  where  the  gas  and  electricity 
had  been  shut  off  just  the  day  before.  The 
city's  worst  fire  in  30  years  claims  10  lives. 

Three  days  later,  across  town,  seven 
people  are  left  dead  in  another  rowhouse 
fire.  Again,  careless  smoking.  The  chil- 
dren, all  five  of  them,  die  of  smoke  in- 
halation. A  next-door  neighbor  remem- 
bers, "You  could  just  hear  them  screaming 
.  .  .  right  through  the  walls.  It  was  really 
a  hurting  thing." 

The  U.S.  has  the  highest  per  capita  fire 
death  rate  among  industrialized  nations — 
quadruple,  for  example,  that  of  Italy.  Some 
600  Americans  a  month  die  by  fire.  Thou- 
sands more  are  hurt,  some  of  them  being 
grossly  disfigured  or  left  in  unrelenting 
pain.  "You  want  to  die,"  says  a  burn  vic- 
tim. "There  is  nothing  that  makes  that 
kind  of  pain  worthwhile."  Flames  con- 
sume billions  of  dollars  worth  of  property 
each  year.  Billions  more  go  to  fire  de- 
partments, or  are  spent  on  alarms  and 
sprinklers,  extinguishers  and  standpipes, 
to  limit  the  toll. 

But  not  all  the  billions  are  wisely  spent. 
Well-meaning  people  meet  in  committee 
rooms  to  hear  manufacturers,  suppliers, 
contractors,  unions,  and  civic  groups  lobby 
for  particular  points  of  view,  then  vote  on 
safeguards — like  insulation  and  sprinklers 
and  fire  doors — they  think  ought  to  b"e 
part  of  the  building  code.  And  sometimes 
they  vote  wrong. 

Other  people  conduct  tests,  often  at 
$25,000  a  shot,  to  rate  how  well  various 
building  components  stand  up  to  heat,  or 
how  well  particular  materials  promote  or 
retard  the  spread  of  flames.  But  some- 
times the  tests  designed  for  old  materials 
don't  work  for  new  ones. 

All  in  all,  much  time  and  money  goes 
into  reducing  the  toll  taken  by  fire.  Much 
of  it  is  worthwhile;  some  is  not.  In  any 
case,  the  problem  could  certainly  be  tack- 
led more  systematically.  A  more  analyt- 
ical approach  might  yield  reduced  costs, 
greater  benefits.  The  age-old  scourge  of 
fires  burning  out  of  control  and  causing 
loss  of  property  and  of  life — You  could 
hear  them  screaming  .  .  .  right  through  the 
walls — could,  in  short,  become  an  area  of, 
well,  serious  study. 

And  that  is  what  the  people  at  the  Cen- 
ter for  Firesafety  Studies  at  Worcester  Pol- 
ytechnic Institute  in  Massachusetts  have 


Mastering 

FIRE 


In  1871,  Mrs.  O'Leary's 
cow  set  Chicago  on  fire. 
Today,  people  still  die  in 
fires — despite  modern 
building  methods.  Why? 

by  Robert  Kanigel 


aBii 


in  mind  to  do.  They're  trying  to  gather 
up  the  scattered  mass  of  scientific  re- 
search and  folk  knowledge,  the  gritty  ex- 
perience of  generations  of  firefighters  and 
the  accumulated  wisdom  of  the  building 
codes,  and  make  of  it  all  a  discipline. 

David  Lucht,  director  of  the  WPI 
firesafety  center,  has  a  model  for 
how  he'd  like  to  see  firesafety 
engineering  make  its  mark  in  the  world. 
His  model  is  an  allied  discipline  that's  al- 
ready respected,  professionally  "ma- 
ture." His  model  is  the  specialty  known 
as  structural  engineering. 

"Go  ahead,  open  up  a  building  code," 
urges  Assistant  Director  Jonathan  Bar- 
nett.  He's  referring  to  the  bulky  volume 
in  which  each  town  or  city  sets  forth  its 
special  requirements  for  new  construc- 
tion. Typically,  the  code  will  be  three  or 
four  inches  thick,  with  fire  safety  provi- 
sions occupying  most  of  it.  Rules  govern- 
ing structural  design  may  take  up  barely 
a  finger's  width. 

Plainly,  it's  no  less  life-threatening  for 
a  building  to  collapse  than  to  be  con- 
sumed by  fire.  It's  just  that  when  it  comes 
to  how  thick  a  structural  column  should 
be,  Barnett  observes,  the  building  codes 
trust  the  engineer:  We  won't  tell  you  how 
to  do  it,  they  say.  Just  assure  us  it  will  be 
safe,  affix  your  signature  and  your  seal  as 
a  professional  engineer  to  that  effect,  and 
that's  good  enough. 

Back  at  the  turn  of  the  century,  before 
structural  engineering  came  into  its  own, 
Barnett  goes  on,  this  wasn't  the  case  at 
all.  Then  codes  dictated  every  structural 
detail.  The  code-writers  would  hear  that 
a  6-inch  concrete  slab  had  collapsed?  Well, 
they  would  demand  12-inch  slabs — no 
matter  that  careful  analysis  might  reveal 
eight  inches  to  be  enough. 

Though  well-intended,  it  was  a  cum- 
bersome way  of  doing  things,  and  one  ul- 
timately discarded  as  structural  engineer- 
ing's predictive  powers  grew  more 
respected.  Yet  fire  safety  for  buildings  to- 
day, lament  Barnett  and  Lucht  and  others 
at  the  WPI  firesafety  center,  is  mostly 
handled  in  the  same,  too-rigid  way.  Apply 
so  many  inches  of  insulation  to  a  column, 
says  the  code.  Or,  Space  the  seats  in  the 
auditorium  just  so  widely.  Or,  Make  the 
wall  sheathing  material  just  so  thick.  The 
code  becomes  a  mass  of  detail,  piled  up 
over  the  years,  varying  immensely  from 
community  to  community,  the  product  of 
innumerable  local  battles  lost  and  won. 
"It's  design  by  committee,"  says  David 
Lucht. 

The  codes,  of  course,  came  about  for 


AUGUST  1982 


a  reason.  In  1871.  Mrs.  0"Leary"s  cow 
kicked  over  a  lantern  and  Chicago  burned, 
the  fire  taking  250  hves  and  obliterating 
three-and-a-half  square  miles  of  the  city. 
The  next  year.  Boston  burned.  After  a 
succession  of  big.  costly  fires  around  the 
turn  of  the  century,  the  insurance  com- 
panies were,  as  David  Lucht  says,  "going 
broke.  .  .  .  The  way  those  cities  were  built, 
they  had  all  the  ingredients  for  tremen- 
dous conflagrations."  Periodically,  they 
got  them. 

So  beginning  in  1905  came  the  first  of 
the  underwriter-inspired  "model  codes." 
Wood  construction  was  out,  firewalls  in. 
And  the  fact  is,  Lucht  points  out,  "We 
don't  have  Chicago  burning  down  any- 
more." 

But  people  are  still  dying  in  building 
fires,  in  brick,  concrete,  steel,  and  glass 
structures  no  less  than  in  wood  ones.  How 
come?  For  one  thing,  as  Dougal  Drys- 
dale.  a  visiting  professor  from  Scotland, 
points  out,  "It's  not  the  building  that  burns, 
it's  the  contents.'"  Carpet  and  drapes  and 
furniture  and  paper  do  burn,  and  archi- 
tects exert  no  control  over  them. 

Another  factor  is  the  heavier  use  of 
plastics.  As  Lucht  recently  told  viewers 
of  the  Nova  television  documentary  "Why 
America  Burns,"  the  new  plastics  have 
"caused  problems  that  the  fire  codes 
haven't  caught  up  with  yet."  Plastics-fueled 
fires  burn  faster,  with  more  smoke,  and 
churn  out  prodigious  quantities  of  poison 
gases  like  phosgene,  chlorine,  and  cya- 
nide. Of  course,  adds  Lucht,  "the  carbon 
monoxide  kills  you  in  any  case." 

To  make  matters  worse,  standard  tests 
developed  on  older  building  materials  like 
cotton,  wood,  and  wool  often  fail  to  re- 
veal the  dangers  of  the  synthetics.  In  one 
demonstration  aired  for  the  Nova  docu- 
mentary, for  example,  a  plastic  rated  high 
by  one  such  test — the  "Steiner  tunnel  test," 
originally  developed  to  rate  the  fire  po- 
tential of  wood  panels — was  consumed  by 
flames  within  a  minute  and  a  half.  A  low- 
rated  plywood,  on  the  other  hand,  would 
have  taken  20  minutes  to  become  simi- 
larly engulfed.  This  kind  of  thing,  says 
Jonathan  Barnett.  is  a  classic  example  of 
a  test  being  used  "poorly,  blindly." 

Still  another  problem  ignored  by  the 
old  code-restricted  approach  to  fire  safety 
is  the  change  in  building  construction  since 
World  War  II.  Modern  materials  make 
for  lighter,  cheaper  construction — but  for 
poorer  fire  containment,  too.  And  while 
architects  often  do  specify  fire-resistant 
flooring  materials,  for  example,  builders 
sometimes  poke  holes  in  them  for  air  con- 
ditioning  and   other   building-wide   sys- 


Fire  Facts: 


One  in  three  fire  deaths  and  injuries 
can  be  ascribed  to  careless  smoking, 
one  in  four  to  arson  (which  has  gone 
up  400  per  cent  in  the  last  ten  years). 
Eliminating  just  these  two  causes  of 
fire,  together  with  installing  smoke 
alarms  in  every  home,  would  cut  fire 
losses  in  half.  (Jonathan  Barnett  re- 
members once  leaving  an  electrical 
wire  near  the  pilot  light,  after  cleaning 
his  stove.  "It  was  about  an  hour  be- 
fore it  heated  up  enough  to  melt  the 
insulation,"  he  recalls.  A  fire  did  start, 
but  his  smoke  detector  alerted  him  to 
it.  "The  smoke  detector  saved  my 
life,"  he  says,  "and  the  fire  extin- 
guisher made  it  easy  to  put  out  the 
fire.") 

How  tall  should  buildings  be  from  the 
standpoint  of  fire  safety?  "As  tall  as 
you  like,"  says  Jonathan  Barnett — 
given  intelligent  design.  The  two  usual 
approaches  to  high-rise  fire  safety  are 
sprinklers  or  compartmentalization. 
Intelligent  design  involves  a  judicious 
mixture  of  both. 


terns,  without  going  back  to  plug  them  up. 
All  in  all,  declares  Jonathan  Barnett, 
"We're  spending  millions  a  year  for  fire 
safety  we  don't  need" — leaving  millions  a 
year  unavailable  for  fire  safety  we  do  need. 

There  is  no  shortage  of  research" 
on  how  fires  start,  catch,  and 
spread,  says  David  Lucht.  "You 
could  fill  this  building  with  papers  about 
fire."  The  National  Bureau  of  Standards 
has  a  Center  for  Fire  Research,  and  key 
work  has  been  done  in  Japan,  Germany, 
and  Sweden.  But  the  material  is  scattered. 
The  problem  is  getting  at  it,  making  sense 
of  it,  applying  it.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  de- 
clares Lucht,  there  is  "not  a  single  hard- 
cover text  on  fire  behavior,  anywhere." 
That  lack  is  precisely  what  Dougal 
Drysdale  has  been  trying  to  overcome, 
and  why  the  University  of  Edinburgh  pro- 
fessor has  been  at  WPI  for  the  past  months. 
Working  under  a  grant  from  a  New  Eng- 
land insurance  company,  the  sandy-haired, 
woolly-looking  Scot,  whose  temporary  of- 
fice in  the  basement  of  WPI's  Higgins  Lab 
was  graced  with  bicycle  and  loaded  back- 
pack, has  been  putting  together  the  first 
comprehensive  text  on  fire  dynamics.  Not 
surprisingly,  he's  awash  in  the  chemistry, 
physics,  and  mathematics  of  fire  that  he's 
been  trying  to  distill  into  the  book.  "Fire 
is  really  a  feedback  process  between  the 
flame  and  the  surface"  of  the  burning  ma- 
terial, he  says.  It  represents  "quite  a  del- 
icate heat  balance." 

Heat  balance.  It's  not  just  how  hot 
something  gets  that  determines  whether 
it  will  sustain  a  flame;  it's  whether  the 
burning  generates  enough  heat  to  offset 
that  carried  away  by  heat  transfer  pro- 
cesses like  conduction  and  radiation. 
(Water  extinguishes  a  fire,  notes  Drys- 
dale, by  absorbing  its  heat.)  You  are  apt 
to  have  trouble  igniting  a  log  with  just  a 
match — however  hotly  it  may  burn — be- 
cause a  match  simply  doesn't  supply 
enough  heat  to  make  up  for  that  con- 
ducted away  by  the  log's  considerable  mass. 
You  need  kindling,  burning  furiously,  to 
get  your  fire  going. 

A  haystack,  on  the  other  hand,  can  burst 
into  flames  spontaneously,  with  no  exter- 
nal source  of  heat  at  all.  In  a  slightly  moist 
haystack,  Drysdale  explains,  bacteria  find 
an  ideal  setting  for  growth.  And  as  they 
multiply,  they  generate  heat — not  much, 
but  the  mass  of  the  haystack  itself  serves 
for  insulation,  and  the  temperature  slowly 
climbs.  Finally,  the  hay  may  start  to  smol- 
der— and,  upon  finding  enough  oxygen  to 
support  combustion,  to  burn. 

Assistant  director  of  the  firesafety  cen- 


ter  Jonathan  Barnett  has  been  using  com- 
puter modeling  to  study  the  structural 
burdens  fire  imposes  on  buildings:  When 
a  steel  structural  member  gets  up  to  about 
1100  degrees  Fahrenheit,  it  weakens 
markedly,  losing  its  structural  integrity. 
Or  this,  as  Barnett  says,  has  been  the  rule 
of  thumb  behind  code  provisions  speci- 
fying how  much  insulation  structural 
members  must  have,  the  idea  being  to 
ensure  they  never  reach  the  forbidden 
temperature. 

But  this  is  just  the  kind  of  rigid  for- 
mulation Barnett  wants  to  see  replaced 
with  a  "rational  engineering  approach  to 
design  similar  to  that  used  in  all  the  other 
engineering  disciplines."  Such  an  ap- 
proach, he  says,  can  pay  substantial  div- 
idends. Swedish  researchers  who  pi- 
oneered the  techniques  he  hopes  to  refine 
have  found  that  through  them  they  rou- 
tinely "save  10  per  cent  on  the  cost  of  fire 
protection  for  a  building." 

The  fact  is,  steel  does  not  simply  turn 
to  jelly  upon  reaching  1100  degrees  Fahr- 
enheit. For  one  thing,  it  responds  differ- 
ently depending  on  whether  it's  heated 
quickly  or  slowly.  Moreover,  fire  not  only 
weakens  it,  but  may  apply  additional  loads. 
For  example,  a  column  not  free  to  expand 
is  squeezed  by  heating.  And  a  beam  sub- 
ject to  one-sided  heating  may  bend  out  of 
shape.  But  perhaps  such  loads  are  small 
compared  to  others  the  building  faces  and 
may  thus  be  safely  ignored?  No,  says  Bar- 
nett. "You  don't  know  beforehand  which 
are  negligible."  So  all  must  be  factored 
into  the  computer  model. 

Because  fire  is  inherently  so  complex", 
the  analogy  to  structural  engineering,  he 
admits,  is  not  a  perfect  one.  Still,  "We 
have  all  the  tools  we  need  to  design  for 
structural  fire  loading,"  he  says.  "Now  we 
just  have  to  put  it  all  together."  With  the 
computer,  he  believes,  the  problem  will 
ultimately  be  rendered  "manageable." 
Calibrated  on  test  data  already  available, 
Barnett's  computer  model  may  help  make 
such  costly  tests  of  structural  assemblies 
unnecessary. 

Barnett  feels  strongly  that  "every  sig- 
nificant building  should  have  a  firesafety 
engineer  on  its  staff,"  just  as  now  it  will 
have  a  structural  engineer,  an  architect, 
a  mechanical  engineer,  and  so  on.  "I  en- 
vision a  day  when  we  won't  have  building 
codes,  when  we'll  start  to  trust  the  fire 
engineer's  seal,  just  like  the  structural  en- 
gineer's," he  says.  Specifically  trained  to 
handled  firesafety  problems  that  today  get 
short  shrift,  and  no  longer  hamstrung  by 
unduly  restrictive  codes,  this  new  species 
of  engineer  will  likely  come  up  with  in- 


Fire  Facts: 


In  most  modern  buildings,  it's  not  the 
structure  that  burns,  but  the  contents. 
One  rule  of  thumb  among  firesafety 
engineers  is  to  figure  on  ten  pounds  of 
wood  or  wood  equivalent  per  square 
foot  of  floor  space.  That's  six  tons  of 
fuel  in  even  a  small,  1200-square-foot 
house. 

Why  does  the  U.S.  have  the  highest 
fire  losses  of  any  industrialized  nation? 
"Because  people  don't  care,"  says 
Barnett.  In  Japan,  "if  you  have  a  fire 
in  your  home,  people  say  'What's  the 
matter  with  you?'  Here,  they  commis- 
erate with  you,"  and  immediately  in- 
quire into  the  status  of  your  fire  insur- 
ance. 

The  Nova  TV  documentary  "Why 
America  Burns"  pointed  out  that  in 
Switzerland,  chimney  sweeps  clean 
each  chimney  and  inspect  every  home 
twice  a  year.  A  satisfactory  fire  in- 
spection is  a  prerequisite  for  fire  insur- 
ance. 

Three  quarters  of  those  who  die  in  fire 
die  of  smoke  inhalation,  and  are  never 
touched  by  flame. 


novative,  cost-saving  solutions. 

Barnett  tells  of  a  high-rise  hotel  in  Bos- 
ton that  has  an  atrium  broken  up  into 
intimate  seating  areas  separated  by  hand- 
some concrete  planters.  A  renowned  in- 
terior designer  at  work?  No,  it  seems  the 
design  was  heavily  influenced  by  the 
building's  firesafety  engineer.  Since  sprin- 
klers wouldn't  work  at  that  location,  he 
decided  to  limit  the  fuel  available  to  feed 
a  potential  fire.  Dispersed  furniture  and 
concrete  planters  were  the  aesthetically 
pleasing  result. 

Robert  Fitzgerald,  who  helped 
found  the  WPI  Center,  calls  fire- 
safety engineering  "a  primitive 
field  just  emerging  into  the  twentieth  cen- 
tury." 

The  Center  conducts  research,  a  mas- 
ters program — the  only  one  in  the  coun- 
try— and  what  Fitzgerald  calls  "technol- 
ogy translation."  That  broad  heading  will 
ultimately  include  short  courses  and  video 
programs  intended  to  reach  everyone  from 
fire  commissioners  to  architects,  and  a 
steady  stream  of  textbooks  (Drysdale's 
being  the  first)  on  aspects  of  firesafety. 

One  day,  Fitzgerald  believes,  the  field 
will  progress  to  the  point  where  it  is  sel- 
dom viewed,  as  it  typically  is  today,  as  a 
luxury.  It's  simply  not  true,  he  declares, 
that  "good  fire  protection  always  costs 
more  money."  In  fact,  he  says,  "instead 
of  restricting  the  architect  it  opens  him 
up,"  making  possible  imaginative  solu- 
tions like  the  hotel  atrium  to  which  Bar- 
nett referred. 

Future  buildings  will  be  "fine  tuned," 
he  says,  to  fight  fire.  The  city-wide  and 
building-wide  focus  will  be  obsolete: 
buildings  will  be  designed  so  a  fire  simply 
can't  get  going.  Even  the  arsonist,  in  this 
safest  of  all  possible  worlds,  will  be  foiled 
in  his  task.  "We  want  to  design  so  that 
even  if  somebody  intentionally  starts  a  fire, 
the  building,"  Fitzgerald  says,  "responds 
appropriately." 

Fire. 

A  source  of  almost  universal  satisfac- 
tion as  flames  flicker  in  the  fireplace,  safely 
contained.  But  a  source  of  terror  when 
they're  not,  of  excruciating  pain  among 
fire's  survivors,  of  nightmares.  And  of  re- 
vulsion, too,  at  the  sight  of  those  disfig- 
ured by  fire — like  the  beautiful  child 
scarred  beyond  recognition  whose  before- 
and-after  pictures  in  a  1973  federal  report 
I  forced  myself  to  view  every  time  I  needed 
to  remind  myself  what  this  article  was  really 
all  about. 

Fire  must  be  tamed. 


AUGUST  1982 


III 


THE  RISE  AND  F 


Power  shifts  uneasily  in  the  world. 
Little  wars  break  out  like  brush 
fires,  not  always  for  obvious 
reasons.  Brash  young  empires  assert 
themselves,  leaving  older  ones 
caught  off  balance.  Can  any  sense 
be  made  of  it  all? 

We  asked  a  panel  of  historians, 
political  scientists,  and  economists, 
from  Alumni  Magazine  Consortium 
schools  and  elsewhere,  to  try.  You 
may  eavesdrop  on  their  discussion. 


Art  by  Allen  Carroll 


For  a  reading  list  on  empires,  write  the  Alumni  Magazine 
Consortium,  20^)  Whitehead  flail,  Johns  Hopkins  Univer- 
sttv,  Baltimore,  MP  2I2IH. 


Bryant  Cureton,  political  scientist,  Hartwick  College, 
moderator  of  the  discussion:  I  will  start  with  an  utterly 
simple  definition:  An  empire  is  a  supernational  political 
system  created  and  governed  more  or  less  centrally  by  one 
of  its  parts;  it  is  held  together  either  by  the  exercise  of  power 
or  by  the  threat  of  power.  That  is  extremely  simplistic,  and 
I  offer  it  primarily  for  you  to  enlarge,  attack,  or  whatever. 

Let  me  suggest  that  we  begin  by  just  going  around  the  table, 
from  a  roughly  chronological  perspective.  Paul? 

Paul  Rahe,  classicist,  Franklin  and  Marshall  College:  All  right. 
I'd  like  to  read  briefly  from  the  Melian  Dialogue.  At  one  point 
in  Book  V  of  Thucydides,  the  Athenians  respond  to  the 

Melians: 

So  far  as  the  favor  of  the  gods  is  concerned,  we  think  we  have  as 
much  right  to  that  as  you  have.  Our  aims  and  our  actions  are 
perfectly  consistent  with  the  beliefs  men  hold  about  the  gods,  and 
with  the  principles  which  govern  their  own  conduct.  Our  opinion 
of  the  gods  and  our  knowledge  of  men  leads  us  to  conclude  that  it 
is  a  general  and  necessary  law  of  nature  to  rule  wherever  one  can 
...  we  know  that  you  or  anybody  else  with  the  same  power  as 
ours  would  be  acting  in  precisely  the  same  way.  .  . 

The  view  that's  expressed  is  that  it's  a  general  and  necessary  law 
of  nature  to  rule  wherever  one  can.  If  that's  the  case,  then  our 
choice  is  not  between  empire  and  no  empire;  it's  between 
holding  an  empire  and  being  part  of  someone  else's  empire. 
The  secondary  choice  might  be  between  a  decent  empire  and 
an  indecent  empire. 

Paul  Thibault,  medieval  historian,  Franklin  and  Marshall 
College:  In  the  medieval  framework,  the  basic  question  was 
not  the  fact  of  rule,  which  was  taken  for  granted,  but  the 
purpose  of  rule,  which  was  viewed  from  two  perspectives.  The 
earlier  idea  was  that  we  have  governments  to  rule  us  as 
punishment,  as  a  direct  result  of  the  fall  from  grace,  of 
expulsion  from  the  Garden  of  Eden.  Later,  particularly  after 
the  12th  century,  the  view  pointed  out  by  Thucydides  was 
revived:  that  is,  that  you  find  rule  everywhere.  And  because 
God  created  a  good  world,  rule  must  therefore  be  good. 
The  question  still  remains — what  is  good,  what  is  the 
purpose?  The  purpose  is  salvation.  All  government,  in  this 
view,  must  ultimately  lead  its  subjects  to  salvation.  In  the 
medieval  mind,  however,  the  overarching  framework  is  not 
any  specific  political  unit,  such  as  the  Holy  Roman  Empire, 
but  Christendom  in  general,  which  is  the  perfect  society. 

Michael  Vlahos,  diplomatic  history  and  military  strategy. 
School  of  Advanced  International  Studies,  Johns  Hopkins 
University:  I'd  like  to  discuss  the  way  Americans  responded  to 
images  of  empire,  images  which  by  their  very  nature  define 


IV 


ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


\LL  OF  EMPIRES 


our  deeper  identity  as  a  state,  or  a  people,  or  a  race. 

In  that  framework,  there  are  two  senses  of  empire.  The 
first  grew  out  of  the  central  legitimizing  concept  of  authority, 
and  there  we  use  the  word  imperium — which  has  nothing  to 
do  with  a  geographic  place.  The  second  emerged  from  a 
mythology  that  developed  about  the  Classical  empires.  An 
empire  became  a  concept  of  universality,  something  through 
which  an  entire  ekomene,  or  known  world,  was  unified. 

The  first  concept — that  of  authority — implied  for  early 
Americans  the  mantle  of  ritual  kingship.  And  the  United 
States  originated  in  reaction  to  that  concept,  as  a  kind  of 
counter-empire.  In  the  second  American  image,  we  see 
ourselves  as  a  virtuous  republic  in  a  new  world. 

So  in  two  senses  America  grew  as  an  anti-model.  It  is  seen 
as  a  virtuous  republican  alternative  to  the  degenerate 
monarchies  of  Europe,  and  in  another  sense  it  is  a  complete, 
separate  sphere  or  orbis,  a  removed  democratic  ekomene,  a 
leader  of  sister  republics. 

Now,  the  path  of  America  toward  this  second  concept 
evolved  only  after  the  second  world  war.  By  1950,  we  had 
accepted  this  mantle  of  universal  leadership,  as  if  we  were 
elected  by  the  other  free  states  of  the  world  to  fuse  the  two 
worlds,  our  own  and  the  old  world.  But  we  never  have  been 
able  to  accept  the  mantle  of  kingship.  If  you  look  at  America 
today,  our  fear  is  not  one  of  global  involvement,  but  rather 
the  fear  of  internal  corruption  that  seems  to  come  with 
kingship.  We  do  not  wish  to  rule. 

Louis  Wolf  Goodman,  economist,  American  University:  I've 
focused  my  research  for  the  past  15  years  on  transnational 
corporations,  which  some  people  like  to  talk  of  as  types  of 
empires.  These  complex  organizations  do  have  a  few  things  in 
common:  There  is  some  centralized  authority  in  transnational 
corporations  and  in  the  various  geographically  based  empires. 
There  is  some  kind  of  social  structural  differentiation.  And 
there  is  some  process  of  incorporation  of  new  units.  Beyond 
those  characteristics,  my  enthusiasm  about  similarities 
diminishes. 

So  far,  we've  been  talking  about  one  important  question, 
mainly,  what  ideology  justifies  the  existence  of  these  so-called 
empires?  Certainly  transnational  corporations  have  a  fully 
developed  ideology  about  global  efficiency  in  use  of 
resources.  It's  a  highly  debatable  one — efficient  for  whom,  et 
cetera — but  there  is  an  ideology  there,  just  as  there  were 
ideologies  that  justified  the  existence  of  previous  complex 
organizations. 

Romesh  Diwan,  economist,  Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute: 

There  is  only  one  purpose  for  empire:  to  enrich  the  imperial 
country  at  the  expense  of  the  colonies.  And  the  similarities 


among  empires,  both  in  the  past  and  the  present,  lie  in  the 
transfer  of  resources  and  maintenance  of  privilege.  Even 
today,  the  existing  international  order  is  perceived  to 
encourage  the  transfer  of  resources  from  the  South  to  the 
North.  In  that  sense  the  present  international  order  has 
similarities  with  an  empire;  no  doubt  there  are  also 
differences. 

There  are  built-in  contradictions  in  the  process  of  empire- 
building.  One,  the  cost  of  the  necessary  military  force  keeps 
going  up,  so  the  question  of  guns  versus  butter  cannot  be 
avoided  for  long.  The  U.S.  today  is  in  this  situation. 

Two,  the  imperial  country  must  enforce  a  particular 
ideology,  based  on  two  propositions:  A,  everything  associated 
with  the  imperial  country  is  good  and  desirable,  and  B, 
everything  associated  with  the  colonies  is  bad  and 
undesirable.  Everything  involves  virtually  everything:  religion, 
food,  dress,  habits,  customs,  manners,  et  cetera.  Thus  the 
religion  of  the  imperial  country  is  sensible  and  reasonable, 
while  that  of  the  colonies  is  superstitious  and  illogical.  For 
such  an  ideology  to  seep  in,  the  imperial  country  must  enforce 
it  to  the  point  that  it  becomes  part  of  the  language.  But  the 
ideology  of  superiority,  being  a  contrived  one,  cannot  remain 
operative,  because  it  diminishes  both  the  colonizer  and  the 
colonized.  Inevitably  people  realize  that. 

Three,  the  imperial  economic  arrangement  distorts 
production  because  it  subsidizes  certain  sectors,  thereby 
making  the  system  inefficient.  For  example,  the  U.S. 
developed  a  whole  production  structure  based  on  cheap 
energy.  Now  a  major  part  of  the  production  structure  is 
becoming  unviable. 

In  view  of  these  inherent  contradictions,  empires  wither 
away,  slowly  but  surely,  and  I  am  not  convinced  that  they 
must  keep  recurring.  Through  the  process  of  human 
development,  all  empires  will  eventually  wither  away.  The 
movement  of  nuclear  disarmament,  and  the  call  for  a  new 
international  economic  order,  may  be  interpreted  as  progress 
toward  this  withering  away.  These  elements  are  leading  us  to 
a  new,  humanistic,  and  equitable  world  order,  in  which 
empire  will  remain  an  incident  in  the  history  of  human 
development. 

Robert  Kargon,  historian  of  science,  Johns  Hopkins 
University:  I  agree  with  Romesh  that  the  essence  of  the 
imperial  situation  is  group  advantage  through  some  kind  of 
domination  or  control.  And  since  I'm  an  historian  of  science, 
I'd  like  to  call  attention  to  the  fact  that  science  and 
technology  have  played  an  important  role  as  a  means  of 
domination. 

The  rulers  of  empire  usually  have  other  rationales  for 
governance,  usually  the  good  of  the  ruled.  For  centuries,  as 


AUGUST  1982 


f-\\  4    \ 


v« 


i4.^<f4»4^ 


Paul  Thibault  pointed  out.  Christianity  was  the  central 
rationale  for  empire — salvation  of  the  pagans  or  barbarians  or 
whatever.  They  would  be  saved  at  the  cost  of  their  lives  and 
their  families.  But  in  the  late  18th  and  early  19th  centuries, 
increasingly  there  was  talk  about  bringing  good  government  to 
sort  of  anarchic  parts  of  the  world — particularly  among  the 
British,  who  prided  themselves  on  a  talent  for  government. 
And  the  rulers  of  empire  also  claimed  they  were  bringing 
advanced  technical  civilization  to  those  benighted  parts  of  the 
world  who  had  not  had  them.  That  is,  empire  was  still 
rationalized  as  for  the  good  of  the  ruled,  but  now  the 
uncivilized  would  become  civilized  as  we  understood  it,  which 
meant  modern  medicine,  public  health  measures,  improved 
means  of  communication,  train  travel,  and  so  on. 

Technology  served  two  functions.  It  helped  the  rulers 
enforce  physical  domination.  The  way  the  British  used  very 
small  numbers  of  soldiers  to  rule  India,  for  example,  was 
absolutely  a  brilliant  use  of  technology,  in  that  respect.  But 
the  application  of  modern  technology  also  gives  a 
psychological  domination.  There  is  a  French  film  called  Black 
and  While  in  Color  that  was  put  out  a  couple  of  years  ago, 
about  German  and  French  squabbles  in  19th-century  Africa, 
and  it  has  a  brilliant  scene  where  French  missionaries  are 
trying  to  convert  Africans  to  Christianity.  What  they  do  is 
bring  out  a  bicycle,  and  they  ask  the  Africans  to  ride  this 
bicycle.  They  all  try,  and  they  all  fall  down.  Then  the 
missionaries  bring  out  an  African  who  has  been  converted  to 
Christianity.  He  gets  on  the  bicycle  and  rides  around.  So  the 
unbaptized  heathens  flock  to  be  baptized.  It  is  the  power  of 
technology. 

Michael  Vlahos:  The  way  you're  talking,  any  state  that 
oppresses  its  own  people  or  some  other  people  is  an  empire, 
or  any  state  that  has  any  kind  of  influence  beyond  its  own 
borders  is  an  empire — well,  that's  ridiculous.  Then  every  state 
becomes  an  empire  and  the  word  becomes  useless.  We  should 
try  to  decide  what  empire  means.  Is  empire  authority,  or  is  it 
space?  If  it's  space,  what  kind  of  space? 

Louis  Goodman:  I  personally  would  prefer  to  be  in  a 
discussion  in  which  we  settle  for  some  kind  of  hazy  definition, 
then  go  on  to  address  important  human  issues  like  the  ones 
Romesh  brought  up.  I'd  like  to  discuss  whether  empires  are 
withering  away  or  not. 

Paul  Rahe:  What  if  the  alternative  to  empire  were  war?  The 
Circcks  would  have  said  so.  In  one  of  Pericles's  speeches  he 
says  to  the  Athenians.  "Your  empire,  your  arche,  your  rule, 
is  tyranny.  It  may  have  been  wrong  to  take  it  up;  it  is  not  safe 
to  lay  it  down." 


To  ignore  nationalism 
is  to  ignore  the  fact 
that  when  empires  go, 
you  get  the  Dark  Ages. 


;\W 


Nationalism  is  a  primary  force,  and  to  ignore  nationalism  is 
to  ignore  the  fact  that  when  empires  go,  what  you  get  is  the 
Dark  Ages. 

Vlahos:  I  agree.  The  overriding  reality  today  is  that  we're 
involved  in  a  major  struggle  between  the  same  forces  that 
some  of  you  seem  to  think  are  withering,  namely  conflicting 
ideologies  that  are  embodied  in  large  imperial-like  or  quasi- 
imperial  structures.  The  tension  of  that  confrontation  is  the 
overriding  reality  of  life  today,  not  some  hazy  and  hopeful 
schema. 

Goodman:  I  really  disagree.  The  conflict  may  appear  in  the 
press  in  terms  of  conflict  between  ideologies,  but  I  think  the 
conflict  has  to  do  with  distribution  of  goods  and  services. 

Vlahos:  This  is  the  fundamental  issue.  I  think  culture 
overrides  economics. 

Rahe:  That  would  be  the  question  of  nationalism  versus 
economics  as  well. 

Romesh  Diwan:  When  you  talk  of  nationalism — what  in  the 
last  analysis  is  nationalism?  Many  times  it's  nothing  more  than 
the  commercial  interests  of  some  groups  who  have  been 
ruling. 

Rahe:  The  Iranian  revolution,  which  is  a  rather  important 
event,  cannot  be  explained  in  terms  of  economic  domination. 
But  it  can  be  explained  as  a  nationalist  uprising.  In  particular, 
it  is  a  defense  of  a  way  of  life  that's  based  on  religion — and 
definitely  threatened  by  modernization  in  general.  Especially 
modernization  that  comes  in  a  Western  guise. 

Diwan:  But  it's  not  independent  of  economics,  either.  You 
look  at  the  depth  of  the  revolution  and  who  supported  it,  and 
it  got  i*s  basic  impetus  because  the  economic  deprivation  of 
the  masses  was  so  large. 

Vlahos:  I'm  sure  that  helped,  but  it  doesn't  explain  the  nature 
of  the  revolution,  which  is  a  profound  cultural  rejection. 

Robert  Kargon:  The  form  the  revolution  takes  certainly  has 
tremendous  cultural  overtones,  but  I  don't  see  how  you  can 
separate  the  economics  from  culture. 

Vlahos:  You  don't,  you  don't.  I  think  they  flow  together,  in 
the  same  way  that  you  talk  about  technology  replacing 
Christianity.  It  didn't.  Technology  was  an  expression  in  very 
palpable  form  of  the  values  and  larger  behaviors  of  the  West. 


VI 


ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


Rahe:  I'm  wondering  about  the  medieval  empires — how  they 
would  fit  into  all  this. 

Paul  Thibault:  Let  me  take  the  very  simplest  example,  the 
Holy  Roman  Empire.  It's  essentially  a  Germanic  institution, 
not  by  nature  expansive — with  certain  reservations,  for  it  will 
expand  towards  the  east,  and  in  a  colonizing  way.  But  it  pri- 
marily reflects  domination,  a  cultural  view  that  anything 
brought  by  a  Christian  is  better  than  what  it  finds  outside  its 
frontiers.  They  are  convinced  that  they  are  the  perfect  soci- 
ety, and  it  is  part  of  their  mission  to  bring  perfection  to  other 
people. 

The  Crusades  and  the  establishment  of  the  Latin  kingdom 
of  Jerusalem,  I  think,  were  very  much  an  imperial  expansion. 
Jerusalem  was  an  outpost  of  a  few  colonists  who  dominated 
another  culture,  while  remaining  segregated  from  it. 

We  could  argue  the  same  for  Israel  today,  that  it  is  a  simi- 
lar expression  of  Western  superiority,  that  Israel  is  a  Western 
outpost  in  an  alien  land  dominating  a  large  region  with  a  rela- 
tively small  number  of  Western  colonists. 

Kargon:  What's  the  mother  country? 

Thibault:  Europe,  or  the  West  in  general — 

Kargon:  That's  bizarre. 

Bryant  Cureton:  In  general,  how  essential  is  crusading  to  the 
idea  of  empire? 

Rahe:  Utterly  absent  before  Christianity,  I  think.  When  the 
Romans  think  of  their  empire,  in  time  they  begin  to  think 
about  the  benefits  of  peace,  the  Pax  Romana.  But  there  is  no 
crusading  concern  at  all.  Their  concern  is  solely  with  security, 
and  in  fact,  in  the  early  Roman  empire,  there  is  no  extraction 
of  resources.  All  the  Romans  ask  from  their  subject  allies  is 
troops  in  times  of  need.  They  tax  only  their  own  citizens; 
they  do  not  tax  their  allies.  In  time,  when  they  begin  to  ab- 
sorb areas  outside  Italy,  they  impose  a  tax,  but  usually  almost 
all  the  money  is  used  to  support  the  army  that  protects  this 
area  against  invasion. 

Goodman:  If  we  accept  your  assertion,  I  can  think  of  two  hy- 
potheses why  extending  good  to  others  only  became  more  im- 
portant later.  One  idea  might  be  that  in  the  time  of  the 
Greeks,  the  world  was  so  chaotic  that  people  didn't  have  time 
to  think  of  justifying  things.  They  just  had  to  get  security, 
and  that's  all  they  worried  about.  Another  hypothesis  might 
be,  given  mass  communications,  that  today  the  dominated  are 
much  more  aware  of  what's  going  on.  Given  that  greater  in- 


tensity of  knowledge,  it  gets  dangerous  not  to  pay  attention 
to  what  the  people  you're  dominating  think  of  you,  so  you  try 
to  do  them  good. 

Rahe:  Perhaps,  but  I  would  argue  that  the  coming  of  Christi- 
anity marks  a  watershed  in  human  history.  What  Christianity 
does  is  establish  itself  as  a  catholic  or  a  universal  religion.  It 
goes  beyond  Judaism,  which  had  taken  the  line  that  the  cho- 
sen people  were  to  be  a  light  unto  the  nations  and  therefore 
had  a  universal  role,  but  which  didn't  seek  to  proselytize.  The 
effect  is  that,  if  you're  a  Christian,  the  most  important  thing 
in  your  life  is  salvation,  and  if  you  have  a  friend,  the  most 
important  thing  you  can  do  for  him  is  save  his  soul.  That 
leads  to  the  crusading  instinct. 

Goodman:  All  right,  what  about  non-Western  empires?  Do 
you  get  the  same — 

Rahe:  No.  The  Persian  Empire,  for  example,  did  not  impose 
its  religion,  and  it  practiced  great  respect  for  the  local  cus- 
toms, laws,  and  habits,  as  well  as  religions,  of  the  people.  Its 
rehgion  was  a  kind  of  unifying  factor  only  among  the  Persian 
ruling  class.  They  did  enforce  some  token  public  expressions 
of  respect  for  the  imperial  ruler,  but  fundamentally,  the  cru- 
sading instinct  is  absent. 

Goodman:  As  we're  talking  about  it,  it  seems  that  the  Chris- 
tian world  view  leads  to  a  much  more  totalitarian  imposition 
of  a  way  of  doing  things. 

Vlahos:  What  about  Islamic  empires? 

Diwan:  In  Iran — there  had  been  no  Islam  there.  There  had 
been  an  earlier  religion  that  was  completely  wiped  out,  and 
Iran  is  purely  a  Moslem  country  now.  Not  only  that,  Islam 
even  destroyed  whatever  culture  Iran  had,  whatever  language 
they  had.  Everything  was  destroyed. 

Rahe:  I  take  it  back.  Maybe  monotheism  is  the  watershed, 
because  Islam  behaves  in  a  fashion  similar  to  Christianity. 

Goodman:  That's  a  fascinating  hypothesis,  that  it's  monothe- 
ism that  projects  an  absolutist  view  of  things,  which  translates 
itself  into  a  cultural  totalitarianism. 

Vlahos:  I  think  this  is  a  positive  aspect  of  imperialism,  be- 
cause once  you  do  enter  in  and  impose  a  kind  of  homogene- 
ity, you  can  develop  on  the  basis  of  the  new  ethos.  In  other 
words,  the  cultural  imperialism  embodied  in  Christianity — and 
its  development  in  the  form  of  modern  technology  and  mod- 


AUGUST  1982 


Vll 


r-p^/feV; 


ern  Western  ideology — does  create  a  common  ground.  Once 
the  entire  set  of  values  is  accepted  by  everyone,  then  you  can 
begin  to  develop  on  that  basis,  and  I  think  this  is  positive. 

Kargon:  You  say  that  once  Christian  values  permeate  a  soci- 
ety, then  some  kind  of  homogenization  of  this  empire  will 
take  place.  Isn't  that  what  you  said?  I  want  to  comment  on 
that,  because  when  the  Spaniards  converted  the  Indians  in  the 
New  World,  no  Indians  were  permitted  to  become  rulers. 

Vlahos:  No,  only  now  are  you  beginning  to  find  Indians  in 
Mexico  in  high  positions  in  government,  and  not  that  many. 
But  what  I'm  saying  is  that  ultimately  the  way  to  eliminate 
empire  is  to  create  cultural  homogeneity.  That  allows  people 
to  avoid  insoluble  conflicts,  and  I  think  that's  one  problem 
today.  We  still  have  conflicting  worlds,  and  the  world  view 
that's  embodied  by  the  Soviet  empire  is  a  major  factor  pre- 
venting the  post-imperial  phase  we  all  so  long  for. 

Thibault:  Would  you  describe  the  Soviet  system  as  an  em- 
pire? 

Vlahos:  Yes.  I  think  the  U.S.S.R.  is  very  Byzantine  in  the 
way  it  handles  its  legitimacy.  The  emperor  was  proclaimed 
the  representative  of  the  people,  and  you  can  follow  that 
strand  through  the  czars.  Today,  the  true  word  is  interpreted 
through  the  head  of  the  Soviet  party. 

Thibault:  1  think  that's  important,  the  true  word.  The  link  to 
a  world  view  which  is  seen  as  intrinsically  correct  and  there- 
fore merits  imposition  on  others. 

Kargon:  When  it  gets  down  to  it.  I  believe  there  is  a  Soviet 
empire  because  the  Soviet  army  enforces  Soviet  policy. 

Thibault:  Simply  like  that?  The  ideology  doesn't  matter? 

Kargon:  Simply  like  that. 

Diwan:  What  you  are  saying  is  that  the  force  is  there,  and 
people  are  not  really  persuaded  by  Marxism.  I  accept  that.  I 
think  Marxism  is  a  rationalization  rather  than  an  ideology. 

Rahe:  Nevertheless,  it  gives  the  U.S.S.R.  an  enormous  power 
in  the  rest  of  the  world,  in  the  sense  that  they  have  an  ideo- 
logical following  in  virtually  every  country  that  is  vital  to  them. 

Diwan:  That  occurs  where  people  see  their  current  system  as 
oppressive,  and  the  only  alternate  system  is  a  Marxist  one. 
It's  an  escape  route. 


Kargon:  Many  regimes  which  are  really  military  cliques  call 
themselves  Marxist,  and  we  have  to  be  careful  of  relating  that 
description  to  an  ideology. 

Cureton:  I'd  like  to  go  beyond  this  question.  Do  we  see  any- 
thing approaching  a  world  view  sufficient  to  support  a  new 
world  order? 

Rahe:  My  view  is  that  we're  going  to  have  a  new  world  disor- 
der;  that  we  have  been  very  fortunate  since  the  second  world 
war  in  that  the  U.S.  has  had  a  rather  loose  hegemony,  not 
quite  an  empire,  throughout  much  of  the  world.  As  American 
power  declines,  what  you  will  see  is  the  reassertion  of  tradi- 
tional regional  hostilities.  To  put  it  in  a  nutshell,  I  think  that 
if  the  Argentines  had  not  landed  on  what  the  British  call  the 
Falkland  Islands,  and  what  the  Argentines  call  the  Malvinas 
Islands,  Argentina  would  have  gone  against  Chile. 

Goodman:  I  think  you're  absolutely  right  that  there  has  been 
since  World  War  II  a  sort  of  Pax  Americana.  But  I  hope 
you're  wrong  about  the  new  world  disorder.  What  if  we  have 
a  different  kind  of  world  order,  with  consultation  among  al- 
lies? My  favorite  remark  from  President  John  Kennedy — to 
whom  I  don't  give  a  lot  of  credit  in  other  areas^ — was  that  the 
purpose  of  the  United  States  is  to  make  the  world  safe  for 
diversity.  That  is,  to  make  the  world  a  place  where  we  don't 
need  a  common  culture  to  get  past  empire,  where  we  can  re- 
spect each  other's  diversity,  and  work  out  international  prob- 
lems in  a  more  imaginative  way  than  imposing  our  will. 

Diwan:  I  think  we  certainly  will  muddle  through  towards  a 
better  order.  We'll  muddle  because  we  have  serious  conflicts, 
no  doubt  of  that.  The  reason  I  believe  we  will  muddle 
through  is  that  we  have  developed  over  the  past  two  or  three 
hundred  years  in  a  way  you  can  describe  as  Christian.  If  you 
go  to  India,  if  you  go  to  Mexico,  you  can  find  Christians, 
even  though  there  won't  be  any  one  culture  that  one  would 
consider  Christian.  So  a  certain  humanism  is  developing. 

Also,  we  have  put  in  place  in  the  international  system  some 
institutions,  like  the  U.N.,  in  which  we  can  talk  together. 
Talks  may  not  solve  the  Falklands  problem,  it's  not  an  easy 
problem,  but  one  can  take  a  hopeful  view.  So.  regional  con- 
flicts can  reasonably  be  resolved  because  a  forum  exists. 

Vlahos:  Right.  For  small  conflicts  of  interest. 

VAise  Hancock,  editor  of  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consortium: 

But  what  about  BIG  conflicts  of  interest? 

Diwan:  In  big  conflicts,  I  accept  that  maybe  the  best  we  can 


VII 


ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


^^ 


Through  the  process  of  human 
development,  all  empires  will 
eventually  wither  away.  We  are 
entering  a  new  world  order. 


rv' 


do  is  maintain  a  stalemate.  But  if  the  U.S.  government  de- 
cides it  is  not  going  to  accept  compromises,  my  feeling  is  the 
U.S.  population  is  recognizing  that  they  are  not  prepared  to 
fight — and  so  are  the  Russians,  so  are  the  Russians.  They 
have  suffered  20  million  deaths  in  war.  People  who  have  seen 
their  parents  die,  their  sisters  die,  don't  fight  easily.  There  is 
in  the  whole  world  today  a  feeling  that  we  have  to  solve  the 
problems.  There  is  a  sense  of  equality. 

Vlahos:  In  1914,  in  Europe,  the  trendy  analysis  was  that  there 
could  be  no  war  because  financial  markets  would  collapse  in  a 
few  weeks.  A  society  that  had  strong  cultural  bonds,  that  had 
the  Hague,  that  had  international  courts  to  settle  problems, 
that  had  reached  conventions  about  limiting  certain  methods 
of  war,  and — 

Thibault: — had  cultural  unity — 

Vlahos: — They  tore  each  other  apart.  I  don't  think  we  can 
discount  that  happening  again. 

Goodman:  Well,  no  one's  saying  there's  a  zero  possibility. 
There  are  different  kinds  of  probabilities.  I  make  the  asser- 
tion that  if  we  keep  our  balance  of  power  in  the  world  by  one 
nation  imposing  it,  that  lessens  the  probability  that  we're 
going  to  move  on  to  a  better  system. 

Vlahos:  It  also  lessens  the  probability  of  war.  In  other  words, 
you  had  more  stability  in  the  early  post-war  period  because 
you  had  two  superpowers  who  were  able  to  really  police  their 
own  areas.  And  now  that  has  broken  down.  You  have  much 
more  fragmentation. 

Rahe:  Except  that  there  is  one  empire  that's  growing.  As  the 
American  empire,  or  the  rather  loose  hegemony  we've  exer- 
cised, begins  to  fall  apart,  there's  one  empire  that's  expand- 
ing. It's  an  empire  that  does  not  exercise  a  loose  hegemony. 
I'm  thinking  of  Soviet  troops  in  Afghanistan.  I'm  thinking  of 
the  use  of  East  Germans  and  Cubans  in  Ethiopia. 

Kargon:  The  question  is  whether  in  the  long  run  the  Russians 
will  encounter  the  same  problems  that  the  British  and  Ameri- 
cans have.  I  think  they  will.  Ultimately.  It  may  take  them 
more  time  than  we'd  like. 

Goodman:  It's  debatable  whether  the  Russian  empire  is  ex- 
panding or  contracting.  You  could  go  from  country  to  country 
around  the  world  and  tot  up  more  Russian  losses  than  Rus- 
sian gains.  I  think  that  this  casting  the  world  in  a  bipolar  con- 
frontation, Russia  and  the  United  States — 


Rahe:  I  didn't  do  that.  I  wouldn't  think  in  bipolar  terms  if  for 
no  other  reason  than  the  existence  of  China,  and  because  Eu- 
rope in  some  sense,  I'm  not  sure  in  what  sense,  is  emerging 
as  a  pole  of  its  own. 

Goodman:  Right.  I  apologize.  But  the  point  is,  I  don't  think 
that  even  the  Russian  empire  is  expanding  today. 

Diwan:  If  you  look  at  the  relationship  between  Cuba  and 
Russia,  I  don't  think  there  is  an  imperial  relationship.  I  think 
that  Cuba  is  a  cost  to  the  U.S.S.R. 

Rahe:  Arguably  the  19th-century  British  Empire  cost  Britain, 
and  certainly  I  do  not  believe  that  the  United  States  gained 
economically  from  its  colonial  holdings  in  places  like  the  Phil- 
ippines— in  comparison  with  the  cost  of  those  holdings. 

Kargon:  Quite  true,  but  some  people  in  the  United  States 
made  money.  Some  people  in  Britain — 

Rahe: — Some  people  always  make  money  in  war — 

Kargon: — and  those  some  people  had  a  lot  to  say  about 
policy.  What  I  see  happening  now  is  that  foreign  policies  do 
not  exist  in  the  Western  states.  What  we  have  is  trade 
policies. 

Cureton:  Louis,  do  you  see  transnational  corporations  as  an 
independent  force  that  supports  an  optimistic  view? 

Goodman:  Well,  I  think  that  transnational  corporations  are 
forces  that  serve  their  own  purposes,  and  to  the  extent  that 
they  reinforce  global  interdependence,  they  diminish  the  pos- 
sibility of  global  war.  That's  because  war  is  not  in  the  inter- 
ests of  those  corporations. 

But  to  think  that  those  forces  are  more  powerful  than  na- 
tionalism or  other  forces  in  the  world,  sovereign  forces,  is  an 
illusion.  Taken  in  themselves,  corporations  can  be  a  force  for 
peace.  They  can  also,  on  other  levels,  create  increased  ine- 
quality. And  viewed  on  a  global  scale,  I  think  they  cause  in- 
come concentration  rather  than  distribution.  But  they  have 
also  promoted  a  transnational  set  of  interests. 

Vlahos:  What's  your  prescription,  then?  For  a  better  world,  I 
mean. 

Goodman:  I  think  the  most  important  thing  would  be  for  the 
most  powerful  nation  in  that  world  to  deal  with  world  prob- 
lems in  a  broadly  consultative  process  whenever  possible, 
rather  than  trying  to  impose  solutions  all  by  itself. 


AUGUST  1982 


IX 


Perhaps  it's  no  longer  possible 
for  the  U.S.  to  avoid  the  true 
imperial  mantle. 


Vlahos:  Rule  by  committee  has  its  own  drawbacks. 

Elise  Hancock:  What  about  minding  our  own  business? 

Rahe:  One  problem  with  minding  our  own  business  is  that 
since  1960  our  involvement  in  international  trade,  and  our  de- 
pendence on  resources  outside  our  own  continent,  has  be- 
come so  great  that  we  no  longer  have  much  choice  about 
minding  our  own  business.  That  is,  minding  our  own  business 
means  minding  other  people's  business. 

Kargon:  I  disagree.  I  have  an  optimistic  scenario  which  goes 
along  what  you  might  call  the  Japanese  model.  They  mind 
their  own  business. 

Rahe:  Japan  can  mind  its  own  business  because  we  do  the  se- 
curity for  them — essentially.  It  strikes  me  that  one  effect  of 
the  decline  of  American  power  will  be  a  breakdown  in  trade 
relations,  because  of  the  equivalent  of  piracy.  In  other  words, 
the  Japanese  prosper  and  are  able  to  mind  their  own  business 
only  because  they're  a  protectorate. 

Goodman:  What's  your  analogy  to  pirates  today? 

Rahe:  One  analogy  might  be  what  Khaddafi  has  been  trying 
to  do  in  the  Mediterranean. 

Vlahos:  That's  the  traditional  pirate — there's  also  the  greater 
pirates  in  terms  of  cartels  and  groups  of  nations  that  seek  to 
impose  their  needs  on  others. 

Diwan:  On  the  other  hand,  consider  transnational  corpora- 
tions. These  are  the  only  groups  which  can  afford  to  be  pi- 
rates today,  and  it  would  be  in  their  interests  to  maintain  or- 
der in  the  seas.  So  do  you  think  they  will  allow  any  piracy? 
They  have  their  own  armies. 

Goodman:  I  think  the  problem  lies  in  the  regional  areas,  re- 
gional ekomencs  that  are  growing  in  the  world.  You're  going 
to  have  regional  powers,  and  they're  going  to  become  em- 
pires— Brazil,  India.  Iran— and  that's  going  to  cause 
conflict— 

Rahe:  Yes,  and  that's  why  we'll  have  a  breakdown  in  trade.  If 
there  were  a  war  between  Argentina  and  Chile,  that  war 
would  be  raging  over  an  area  that  is  in  fact  a  choke-point  for 
world  trade. 


Diwan:  You're  forgetting  the  history.  Immediately  when 
there's  a  war  between  two  small  powers,  you  said  it  yourself, 
the  U.N.  exists  to  stop  them.  It's  only  when  the  war  takes 
place  between  the  U.S.  and  the  U.S.S.R.  that  the  U.N.  be- 
comes useless. 

Vlahos:  I  think  the  Pax  Americana  still  obtains,  and  Saudi 
Arabia  is  a  nice  illustration.  The  U.S.  has  to  maintain  not 
only  our  own  interests  in  the  Gulf,  but  those  of  Japan  and  the 
Western  alliance.  Alone — in  spite  of  all  the  consultations 
we've  made  asking  Europe  and  Japan  to  help  us  out.  And 
they're  the  ones  who  are  so  dependent  on  Middle  Eastern  oil. 
Now,  were  America  to  find  itself  in  a  position  where  we  were 
no  longer  reliant  on  that  petroleum,  we  might  see  fit  not  to 
extend  our  security  enforcement  to  that  area.  That  could  cre- 
ate a  very  sticky  situation. 

Goodman:  But  we  would  still  stay  in  the  area,  even  if  we 
didn't  need  that  oil,  because  we're  also  dependent  on  Europe 
and  Japan  to  be  healthy  economies  to  buy  our  goods. 

Kargon:  I  think  the  case  of  the  Shah  of  Iran  demonstrates 
that  there  are  tremendous  limits  on  what  we're  able  to  do  to 
guarantee  the  security  of  a  region. 

Vlahos:  I'm  wondering  whether  we  might  be  in  transition  to  a 
world  like  before  1914,  with  power  fragmented.  Then  who's 
going  to  stop  the  Soviets  if  they  want  to  extend  their  influ- 
ence into  Iran? 

Diwan:  We  have  baited  ourselves  with  the  idea  that  the 
U.S.S.R.  is  really  a  bully,  that  they're  just  out  to  do  us  in. 
But  the  reason  we  are  losing  our  empire  is  because  of  its  own 
internal  stresses,  and  when  the  U.S.S.R.  steps  into  that 
worldwide  dimension,  they  will  have  their  internal  problems, 
which  will  denigrate  their  capacity  to  be  the  pirates  of  the  fu- 
ture world. 

Vlahos:  Or  inflame  the  situation,  that's  the  point.  The  stresses 
in  the  Soviet  Union  and  the  conflicts  there  may  create  such 
powerful  pressure  that  the  Soviets  will  respond  with  the  only 
implement  they  know  how  to  use,  and  that's  their  military. 

Goodman:  That's  scary. 

Diwan:  In  this  scenario  there  is  one  possibility  and  that  is  the 
end  of  the  world. 


Vlahos:  How  about  the  Congo,  too?  Strategic  minerals  could 
be  cut  off. 


Rahe:  That's  the  Pax  Atomica. 


ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


Vlahos:  Pax  or  Pox? 

Rahe:  Ambiguous.  The  point  is,  if  it  weren't  for  the  existence 
of  atomic  weapons  after  the  second  world  war,  we  would 
have  had  a  third  world  war  long  ago. 

Vlahos:  Absolutely.  Absolutely. 

Rahe:  The  question  then  is,  what  is  the  prerequisite  for  con- 
tinued restraint?  One  of  the  things  that  has  helped  restraint  is 
that  atomic  weapons  have  been  in  very  few  hands,  which  is  to 
say  very  few  people  have  had  to  exercise  restraint.  As  those 
weapons  spread — and  they  will  spread — we  will  be  in  a  situa- 
tion where  a  good  many  more  nations  have  to  exercise  re- 
straint. I  think  there  are  very  few  grounds  for  optimism. 

Diwan:  I  think  we  in  America  have  a  certain  feeling  that  we 
are  somehow  superior.  We  have  this  atom  bomb.  We  are  re- 
sponsible. They  have  the  atom  bomb.  They  are  irresponsible. 
I  don't  accept  that  argument.  We  are  responsible  because  we 
recognize  the  atom's  power,  as  I  think  every  nation  does. 

Goodman:  There's  another  kind  of  global  disaster  which  could 
have  been  inflicted  on  the  world  throughout  the  whole  cen- 
tury, by  almost  any  nation,  and  that's  chemical  or  bacterio- 
logical warfare.  We  certainly  do  read  in  the  newspapers  about 
the  uses  that  the  Soviet  Union  is  alleged  to  have  made  of  that 
particular  weapon,  but  nevertheless  no  catastrophe  has  oc- 
curred. So  that's  grounds  for  optimism. 

Thibault:  Given  the  circumstances,  how  would  you  go  about 
building  an  empire  today?  Can  you  build  an  empire?  I  mean, 
a  good,  old-fashioned  empire  on  the  late  19th-century  British 
model.  Can  it  be  done? 

Kargon:  Everything  has  a  cost,  and  even  the  British  Empire 
may  have  cost  more  to  maintain  than  it  brought  in — but  the 
costs  were  perceived  as  worth  it.  The  question  is,  in  the  20th 
century,  does  anybody  conceive  the  costs  as  worth  it?  Ob- 
viously, the  Soviet  Union  does,  in  terms  of  security,  espe- 
cially in  areas  that  are  physically  contiguous  to  it.  They  con- 
ceive of  Afghanistan  as  worth  it.  But  if  they  have  problems  in 
Angola,  or  problems  in  Cuba,  are  they  going  to  continue  to 
see  it  as  worthwhile?  That's  problematic. 

Vlahos:  I  think  if  we  had  a  real  disruption  in  one  region  a 
successor  empire  could  form.  I  can't  see  African  colonial  de- 
marcations remaining  forever,  for  example.  Why  can't  you 
have  a  new  Caliphate,  too,  with  the  upsurge  of  Islamic  fer- 
vor? I'm  sure  Khaddafi  dreams  of  that  already.  He  may  not 


be  the  one  to  realize  the  dream,  but  I  could  see  that  kind  of 
thing  happening  soon.  The  U.S.  is  receding  from  that  area, 
while  Islamic  power  and  wealth  are  growing. 

Diwan:  Power  is  growing,  but  what  have  the  Mideastern 
countries  to  have  power  over?  If  you  take  their  money  away, 
what  have  they?  Nothing. 

Vlahos:  But  we're  not  talking  about  taking  their  money  away. 
The  trade  continues. 

Riahe:  He's  right,  though.  They  lack  industrial  infrastructure. 

Goodman:  Furthermore,  a  charismatic  leader  has  not 
emerged.  Khaddafi,  you  know,  is  hated — 

Hancock:  You  think  a  charismatic  leader  is  essential? 

Goodman:  A  charismatic  leader  is  important  for  setting  some- 
thing up — then  you  need  to  institutionalize  it  to  keep  going. 

Rahe:  A  charismatic  leader  always  begins  with  one  nation.  He 
gains  leadership  over  one  nation,  which  then  develops  some 
kind  of  military  superiority  that  allows  them  to  establish  an 
overall  hegemony.  Now,  the  reason  I  suspect  an  empire  will 
not  happen  in  the  Islamic  world  is  that  I  cannot  think  of  a 
candidate  for  military  superiority.  You  have  to  be  able  to 
build  your  own  weapons,  that's  the  first  priority. 

Vlahos:  That's  why  it  won't  be  Libya,  for  example.  But  let's 
draw  another  illustration.  I  think  that  India  will  be  the  one  to 
dominate  the  Indian  Ocean.  Already,  with  its  relation  to 
Bangladesh  and  some  of  the  Himalayan  princedoms,  it's  a  re- 
gional system.  I  think  that  India  is  already  an  empire,  and  I 
think  India  is  a  perfect  example  of  the  empire  we'll  see  in  the 
future. 

Goodman:  We're  getting  back  to  a  point  that  Michael  raised 
in  the  beginning.  When  is  it  useful  to  pull  out  our  definition 
of  empire?  Do  we  want  to  say  that  these  different  spheres  of 
influence  are  empires?  Is  it  useful  to  use  the  same  term  as  we 
would  to  talk  about  the  Holy  Roman  Empire,  the  Greek  em- 
pires, or  whatever?  I  don't  think  that  it  is,  myself.  These  past 
empires  as  we  conceive  them  aren't  going  to  happen  again, 
but  there  will  be  other  forms  of  rule.  The  British  Empire 
might  not  go  on,  but  we  do  have  transnational  corporations, 
and  we  have  other  forms  of  complex  international  organiza- 
tions that  exercise  power  worldwide. 

Vlahos:  But  that's  influence.  Influence  is  different  from  legiti- 


AUGUST  1982 


XI 


mate  authority.  Our  stereotype  empire  is  the  loose  British 
one,  and  I  agree  we're  not  going  to  see  that.  What  we're 
going  to  see  are  the  true  empires  of  the  past  based  on  author- 
ity, not  rooted  to  nationahty,  and  having  a  direct  and  legiti- 
mized administration  over  those  different  peoples. 

Kargon:  Legitimized  by  military  power. 

Rahe:  He's  put  his  finger  on  something,  though.  The  Soviet 
empire's  foundation  in  legitimacy  is  radically  different  from 
the  Persian  Empire's  foundation.  It's  not  the  divinity  of 
Brezhnev  that  is  the  ideological  foundation — it's  a  certain  vi- 
sion of  the  future. 

Thibault:  Which  is  an  absolute  vision — 

Rahe:  — and  is  universal  rather  than  national  in  character. 

Goodman:  And  that's  what's  spreading  in  the  world!  That 
type  of  vision!  That's  the  thing  you  see  in  Vietnam,  you  see  it 
in  Iran. 

Thibault:  Can  I  throw  something  in,  just  to  see  if  it  clicks?  Is 
nationalism  the  antithesis  of  empire? 

Goodman:  I  think  it  would  be  either  a  prelude  to  empire,  or  a 
reversion  from  it. 

Thibault:  So,  as  long  as  nationalism  is  a  strong  force  you 
can't  have  empires  in  the  classic  sense. 

Rahe:  We  never  did  agree  on  a  definition  of  empire,  but  I 
think  we  may  agree  that  there  are  stages  of  empire,  in  the 
sense  that  the  ancient  empires  seemed  to  lack  the  universal 
religious  claim  of  the  medieval  empires.  If  one  moves  to  a 
third  stage,  progress  becomes  the  justification  for  empire. 
The  question  then  is  whether,  since  World  War  II,  we  have 
entered  a  fourth  stage. 

I'm  not  sure  we  would  reach  agreement  on  the  character  of 
the  fourth  stage.  Is  there  room  for  empire  within  the  fourth 
stage?  Is  there  room  for  loose  hegemony  in  the  fourth  stage — 
by  which  I  mean  the  existence  of  client-states.  Or  is  our  fu- 
ture one  in  which  empires  no  longer  exist?  Or  there  might  be 
a  future  not  unlike  that  envisaged  by  George  Orwell,  in 
which  you  have  a  number  of  regional  empires  emerging  and 
in  conflict,  and  likely  to  remain  in  conflict. 

Kargon:  I  see  this  period  as  a  period  of  the  passing  of  empire 
as  we  have  known  it.  And  despite  the  capacity  of  people  to 
inflict  great  suffering  on  other  people,  I  think  the  passing  of 


empire  is  still  a  good  thing.  I  think  there  will  still  be  areas  of 
hegemony,  spheres  of  influence.  But  I  think  we'll  see  much 
more  evidence  of  the  limitations  of  power. 

Cureton:  Doesn't  that  suggest  the  decline  in  power  of  both 
ends  of  the  spectrum,  both  empire  and  nationalism?  You've 
talked  about  national  entities  being  less  able  to  control  their 
destinies  because  other  nations  get  in  the  way  more. 

Rahe:  I  think  radical  nationalism  today  requires  socialism: 
which  is  to  say  you  must  nationalize  the  economy,  or  else  be 
penetrated  by  the  economic  structures  of  outside  powers. 

Thibault:  But  do  you  think  it  will  be  successful,  or  is  it  simply 
a  flailing  of  one's  arms  in  front  of  an  onrushing  train? 

Rahe:  The  Soviets  have  done  it  very  successfully,  I  think.  The 
Nazis  did  it  rather  successfully. 

Goodman:  I  think  we  have  to  distinguish  between  recently 
and  years  ago,  because  the  costs  of  cutting  yourself  off  grow 
greater  and  greater.  The  Soviet  Union  may  have  done  it  suc- 
cessfully in  1917,  but  to  the  extent  that  they're  autarchic  to- 
day, it's  costing  them. 

Diwan:  I  think  nationalism  has  two  phases.  First,  a  phase 
when  nationalism  also  becomes  a  struggle  against  empire.  Na- 
tionalism becomes  a  vehicle  to  throw  your  yoke  away. 

But  once  you  have  achieved  some  form  of  national  inde- 
pendence, then  nationalism  is  not  such  a  strong  force.  As  I 
see  it,  more  and  more  countries  have  become  nationalistic  in 
recent  years  simply  because  they  were  leaving  colonial  status. 
Once  they  become  independent,  by  and  large,  they  are  join- 
ing other  countries.  Interdependence  has  become  much  more 
important. 

Goodman:  There  were  changes  on  the  other  end,  too.  If  you 
look  at  the  behavior  of  transnational  corporations  today, 
compared  with  1970,  they're  adapting  much  more  efficiently 
to  local  situations,  putting  up  much  less  rigid  conditions. 

Thibault:  I  think  Romesh's  point  is  very  well  taken,  because 
nationalism  is  not  an  historical  constant.  It's  a  product  of  par- 
ticular circumstances,  and  I  wouldn't  be  surprised  to  find  our 
form  of  nationalism  simply  evolving  into  a  union,  or  a  simi- 
larity of  outlook,  among  English-speaking  peoples. 

In  the  Falklands,  for  instance,  I  would  posit  that  one  thing 
tilting  us  in  favor  of  the  British  was  language.  Because  with 
that  strong  link  of  language,  we  also  have  similarity  in  politi- 
cal institutions. 


XII 


ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


If  you  look  at  America , 

we  fear —  not  global  involvement— but  rather  ^ 

the  corruption  that  seems  to  come  with  kingship^ 
We  do  not  wish  to  rule. 


OS 


Goodman:  If  instead  of  England  and  Argentina,  those  two 
powers  were  France  and  India,  I  bet  we'd  side  with  France. 

Thibault:  Now  wait  a  second,  I  think  you're  muddying  the 
waters.  Let's  use  France  and  Argentina. 

Goodman:  No,  India's  political  language  is  English,  and  I 
want  the  developing  nation  speaking  English. 

Hancock:  I  think  he's  right.  We  would  feel  a  greater  com- 
monality with  France  than  with  India,  which  we  perceive  as 
exotic. 

Goodman:  You  see,  it's  the  developed  versus  the  developing, 
North/South.  That  is  a  more  important  dimension  than  En- 
ghsh/non-English  speaking. 

Rahe:  How  about  cuisine? 

Goodman:  Not  to  say  that  English  isn't  important — and 
North/South  is  a  variable  in  itself. 

Vlahos:  No,  wait,  wait.  I  think  you  have  a  point.  The  point  I 
want  to  add,  though,  is  that  there's  a  smaller  system  that 
America  could  retreat  to,  that  in  my  monograph  I  call  Anglo- 
Oceania.  Which  is  exactly  the  language  bond.  It's  got  12  mil- 
lion square  miles  of  land,  and  it  takes  in  Australia,  Britain, 
the  U.S.,  Canada,  and  New  Zealand.  They  could  create  a 
quintilateral  nuclear  force,  even  a  formal  federation,  which 
could  possibly  survive  in  a  chaotic  world.  I  think  that  what 
we're  seeing  in  the  Falklands  is  the  very  beginning  of  that 
kind  of  cultural  fallback. 

Thibault:  Look  at  what  France  is  doing  with  its  former  em- 
pire. To  whom  are  those  Saharan  nations  looking  nowadays? 
Right  back  to  France.  That's  certainly  what  the  British  Com- 
monwealth hopes  for,  but  I  don't  think  it's  working  very  well. 

Rahe:  One  thing  that's  worth  throwing  in  on  this  nationalism 
issue:  None  of  us  at  this  table  is  really  a  citizen  of  an  ordinary 
nation.  The  United  States  is  a  very  peculiar  place  because  it 
draws  people  from  many  nations,  and  to  the  extent  that  the 
so-called  melting  pot  works,  it  denationalizes  people. 

Kargon:  We  seem  never  to  have  developed  the  notion  of  an 
American  by  blood. 

Thibault:  An  American  by  bluejeans! 

Kargon:  By  being  here,  we  become  Americans.  A  guy  steps 


off  a  boat — he's  already  an  American.  This  is  unique  in,  I 
think  it's  unique  in  the  world. 

Cureton:  Does  any  of  this  suggest  that  the  United  States 
has — if  you'll  forgive  me — any  kind  of  special  mission  as  a 
midwife  in  the  emergence.  .  . 

Vlahos:  I  think  that  we  used  to,  in  a  very  low-key  way.  We 
always  felt  a  sense  of  mission  to  be  a  model  for  other  nations, 
and  we  opened  our  doors  to  others.  And  I  think  as  a  model 
for  what  society  should  be  we  still  have  great  faith  in  our- 
selves, that  this  is  the  best  place  to  be,  that  our  model  is  best. 
We  offer  this  to  anyone  to  take  or  reject,  and  they  take. 

Rahe:  Some  do. 

Goodman:  I  think  we're  being  very  ethnocentric.  For  one 
thing,  the  United  States  did  have  a  hell  of  a  proselytizing  pe- 
riod, building  outposts  like  Alaska  and  Hawaii  and  the  Philip- 
pines. 

Vlahos:  No,  no,  no,  no,  no.  America  has  always  seen  itself  as 
a  sanctuary  and  a  refuge.  But  it  took  us  a  long  time  before 
we  got  ourselves  sorted  out,  and  a  longer  time  before  we 
thought  we'd  offer  it  to  the  rest  of  the  world.  Only  through 
the  trauma  of  World  War  II,  when  our  very  existence  was 
threatened,  were  we  finally  brought  face  to  face  with  the  fact 
that  rather  than  having  Britain  as  a  buffer,  we  had  to  take 
upon  ourselves  this  mantle  of  leadership.  We  did  it  only  for  a 
short  period  of  time. 

Goodman:  That's  the  ideology.  There's  a  Uruguayan  philoso- 
pher named  Rodo  whose  most  famous  advice  is  to  Domingo 
Faustino  Sarmiento,  the  Argentine  president.  He  said,  "To 
govern  is  to  populate." 

Vlahos:  Trade  didn't  follow  the  flag  in  the  U.S.  The  flag  fol- 
lowed the  molecular  movement  of  individuals  across — 

Goodman:  That's  the  point.  To  govern  is  to  populate. 

Rahe:  Yes,  but  we're  not  colonizing  now.  We  are  not  export- 
ing Americans  to  take  over  places  like  Hawaii. 

Goodman:  People  would  argue  that  we  don't  have  to  do  that 
anymore,  that  transnational  corporations,  or  whatever  other 
institutions  developed,  do  that  work  much  more  efficiently. 

Kargon:  In  what  way  are  these  transnational  corporations 
American?  They're  not. 


AUGUST  1982 


XIII 


Rahe:  They're  culturally  American. 

Vlahos:  — agents  of  our  culture — 

Goodman:  Not  exactly.  I  would  argue  that  we  have  a  new 
kind  of  thing  going  on  in  the  world,  not  necessarily  because 
America  is  unique — which  it  is — but  because  these  complex 
corporations  have  evolved.  They  bring  a  new  kind  of  ideol- 
ogy, I  would  say,  a  somewhat  adulterated  form  of  loyalties — 

Vlahos:  I  agree  with  you  in  one  sense,  that  the  elite  members 
of  a  lot  of  Old  World  countries  have  entered  the  United 
States  and  are  developing  a  transnational  sense.  The  momen- 
tum of  the  world,  though,  is  with  the  traditional  types,  people 
who  heart  and  soul  are  identified  with  indigenous  groupings. 

Hancock:  Would  you  all  say  the  world  is  groping  for  different 
ways  of  satisfying — I  mean,  what  did  an  empire  do?  It  gave 
you  stability,  it  gave  you  something  to  believe  in,  it  gave  you 
military  and  economic  protection — 

Goodman:  That  depends  on  what  side  of  the  fence  you're 
talking  about.  It  gives  you  something  to  fear,  something  to  be 
oppressed  by,  something  to  lose  money  to,  and  it  strips  you 
of  your  sense  of  self-worth.  If  you're  not  part  of  the  group, 
you're  no  one.  You're  untermensch. 

Diwan:  She's  right,  though.  The  world  is  groping  towards 
some  sort  of  a — I  wouldn't  use  the  word  empire — some  way 
of  solving  interdependence  problems  which  become  very  com- 
plex, and  I  think  some  sense  of  the  world  government  is  there 
already.  The  problem  of  the  world  unit  today  is  that  it  lacks 
two  basic  elements.  One,  it  has  no  taxing  or  interfunding  ca- 
pacity. The  second  is,  it  doesn't  have  any  power. 

Vlahos:  Right. 

Diwan:  Think  of  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  which  has  just  been 
passed — except  the  U.S.  is  no  longer  a  participant.  If  this  or- 
ganization comes  into  being,  it  will  provide  international  in- 
come capacity,  which  is  quite  a  step  forward.  Maybe  the  next 
president  will  go  along  with  it  because  the  Carter  administra- 
tion was  agreeable  to  the  Law  of  the  Sea. 

And  even  police  functions  of  the  world  government  are 
slowly  coming  into  being.  In  various  places,  the  U.N.  has  a 
F)eace-keeping  force. 

Kargon:  I  was  going  to  ask — Do  you  think  the  world  really  is 
becoming  more  homogeneous,  that  increasing  communication 
and  intereconomic  linkages  really  are  making  a  world  which — 


maybe  there  are  reverses — but  which  in  a  sense  is  advancing 
slowly  toward  .  .  .  moral  homogeneity,  let's  call  it. 

Diwan:  The  world  is  certainly  becoming  more  homogeneous. 
You  can  travel  in  different  parts  of  the  world  without  feeling 
lost.  That  is  true. 

Cureton:  Are  we  agreed  that  it's  a  good  thing? 

Kargon:  It  makes  empire  obsolete. 

Vlahos:  Or  the  wave  of  the  future.  If  world  government  is  to 
be  the  universal  empire  of  the  future,  with  all  of  its  attendant 
ills,  as  well  as  its  bonuses — 

Rahe:  The  question  is,  can  world  government  be  established 
short  of  world  tyranny? 

Vlahos:  That's  what  I'm  wondering. 

Cureton:  Let  me  raise  a  question.  Louis,  you  took  a  stab  ear- 
lier today  at  a  specific  policy  implication,  that  is,  the  focus  on 
consultative  process.  Does  our  discussion  hold  any  other  im- 
plications for  U.S.  policy-makers  today? 

Goodman:  There  are  four  areas  that  I  can  think  of.  One  is  to 
be  consultative  in  international  decision-making.  The  second 
is  taking  policy  steps  that  make  it  more  and  more  difficult  to 
get  into  nuclear  conflagrations.  The  third  is  taking  steps  to 
help  limit  population  growth.  Each  of  these  is  a  kind  of  cul- 
tural imperialism,  but  I  think  that  population  limitation  is  an 
important  one.  And  the  fourth  is  encouraging  food  produc- 
tion research. 

I  think  if  these  problems  were  alleviated,  we'd  have  a  bet- 
ter environment  in  which  to  build  a  world  order. 

Rahe:  I  think  your  analysis  leaves  something  out,  as  all  eco- 
nomic analysis  does,  because  it  assumes  that  if  we  do  away 
with  poverty,  things  will  be  just  fine  and  people  will  be  our 
friends. 

Goodman:  I  didn't  say  that  was  the  whole  answer.  But  I  don't 
think  beliefs  about  religion  or  nationalism  or  anything  else, 
no  matter  how  deeply  held,  make  solutions  impossible. 
Working  to  solutions  sure  is  a  tough  task,  but  it's  not 
impossible. 

Rahe:  I  very  much  doubt  that,  because  there  is  the  matter  of 
honor.  And  honor  is  tied  up  with  nationalism  and  sometimes 
with  religion.  For  example,  by  the  standards  of  India,  north- 


XIV        ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


As  American  power  declines,     ^j>-^ 
traditional  regional  hostilities 
will  be  reasserted. 


ern  Ireland  is  prosperous.  Yet  you  have  a  continuing  civil  war 
between  two  political  communities  that  speak  the  same  lan- 
guage, but  seem  to  be  grouped  by  religion.  Lebanon  is  a  very 
prosperous  place,  by  the  standards  of  the  part  of  the  world 
that  it's  in,  and  yet  they're  at  each  other's  throats. 

Cureton:  So,  Paul,  what  do  you  see  as  the  implication  for 
American  policy?  What's  honor  in  an  American  context? 

Rahe:  Well,  I  think  because  we  lack  a  civil  religion,  and  be- 
cause our  sense  of  being  a  people  is  based  on  principles,  we 
are  almost  ecumenical  in  those  principles.  For  example,  the 
Declaration  of  Independence  makes  a  statement  not  about 
the  rights  of  Americans,  but  about  the  inalienable  rights  of 
human  beings  as  human  beings. 

That  makes  us  very  peculiar.  We  happen  to  live  in  a  sea  of 
people  who  do  not  share  that  ethos,  although  we  tend  to 
think  they  do. 

Kargon:  I  want  to  get  back  to  the  question  of  policy  that  we 
started  to  address.  From  ideas  we've  been  kicking  around  to- 
day, what  poHcy  postures  do  you  see  for  the  United  States? 

Vlahos:  We've  first  got  to  decide  where  the  world's  going.  If 
you  look  at  the  world  as  beginning  to  devolve,  and  our  own 
control  over  the  world  political  system  as  becoming  more  and 
more  attenuous,  then  I  think  it  behooves  the  United  States  to 
be  as  conciliatory  and  consultative  as  possible,  but  to  start 
creating  some  kind  of  fallback  position.  If  you  have  a  more 
optimistic  view,  then  you  can  take  policies  on  a  different 
level. 

Kargon:  Any  policy  program  we  embark  on  will  have  to  be 
consonant  with  what  we  might  call  our  national  character, 
which  is  a  complex  of  politics  and  culture  and  economics.  I 
think  we  do  have  a  secular  religion  in  the  United  States,  and 
you  can  see  it  beginning  in  the  early  19th  century — and  that 
secular  religion,  since  we  had  no  past,  is  the  conviction  that 
we  have  a  future.  We  are  probably  the  most  future-oriented 
country  in  the  world.  I  have  a  suspicion  that  what  we've  lost 
is  our  future.  Somehow  we  don't  believe  we  have  a  future  in 
the  same  sense  that  we  used  to. 

Vlahos:  That  future  was  the  regeneration  of  the  world, 
ultimately. 

Kargon:  Yes.  That  was  our  Messianic  thing:  We  believed  that 
we  were  a  sort  of  chosen  nation.  And  I  think  we're  going  to 
have  to  go  with  that  and  make  the  best  of  it.  We're  going  to 
have  to  recapture  the  future,  become  a  kind  of  magnet  cul- 


ture. Put  ourselves  forward  as  an  example — not  by  force,  but 
by  example — by  putting  our  own  house  in  order. 

Thibault:  Isn't  that  really  what  we've  always  done?  We 
grouse,  but  the  grousing  is  essential  to  doing  it.  Remember  in 
the  late  '50s,  how  the  Doomsday  talk  was  much  worse,  right? 
And  vulnerability  was  felt  even  more  strongly  then.  And  that 
was  Kennedy's  message:  that  we  are  not  weak.  That  we  will 
help. 

Kargon:  What's  happened  since  Vietnam  is  that  we've  de- 
cHned  economically.  We've  abandoned  world  leadership  in 
certain  aspects  of  education,  and  certainly  our  relative  eco- 
nomic position  has  declined. 

Goodman:  And  our  charismatic  leaders  have  been  killed. 

Kargon:  I  go  along  with  Brecht:  Pity  the  country  that  needs  a 
charismatic  leader. 

Vlahos:  You're  missing  the  central  point.  Putting  the  house  in 
order  has  to  have  a  higher  romantic  or  emotive  vision  under 
which  all  is  subsumed.  And  this  is  where  the  charismatic 
leader  comes  in — maybe  we  don't  need  him,  but  we  need 
somebody  or  some  school  or  some  group  to  come  along  that 
will  articulate  not  just  the  needs,  but  the  vision. 

Diwan:  I  think  that's  what  we  need,  really.  Some  sort  of  re- 
spect and  optimism  for  the  future. 

Cureton:  But  isn't  this  in  some  perverse  and  easily  misunder- 
stood way  a  kind  of  new  imperial  policy? 

Kargon:  The  characteristic  of  empire  is  force,  and  I'm  not 
talking  about  force.  If  they  want  to  be  like  us,  without  our 
forcing  them,  why  is  that  bad? 

Hancock:  What  nation  has  the  proverb  that  says,  power  lasts 
ten  years,  influence  lasts  a  century? 

Kargon:  I  think  power  is  an  illusion. 

Rahe:  I'm  much  more  concerned  with  the  fallback  position, 
and  it  seems  to  me  it  has  to  be  economic  nationalism.  Those 
with  influence  over  the  economy  should  foster  our  capacity  to 
rely  on  our  own  resources.  We  should  foster  those  institutions 
and  skills  and  capacities  that  would  allow  us  to  fall  back  on, 
for  example,  coal  to  keep  heavy  industry  running,  if  we  did 
not  have  access  to  oil.  We  have  a  withering  steel  industry, 
withering  coal  industry — 


AUGUST  1982 


XV 


Thibault:  Right.  The  old-Une  industry's  just  passing  away. 

Rahe:  And  I'm  opposed  to  the  notion  of  us  as  a  technological 
giant  in  an  international  economic  order  where  we  do  grain 
and  micro-chips  and  get  our  iron  and  steel  from  Korea.  I'm 
worried  about  that. 

Goodman:  You  don't  put  all  your  eggs  in  one  basket,  and  we 
do  need  to  figure  out  which  industries  we  want  to  foster — but 
neither  can  we  produce  everything. 

Diwan:  In  the  last  analysis,  putting  your  house  in  order  comes 
down  to  developing  an  economic  base  rather  than  a  stronger 
military  base,  which  is  the  difficult  part.  A  serious  problem  is 
that  we  are  losing  our  industrial  infrastructure,  and  the  in- 
vestment required  is  unbelievably  large.  We  may  not  have 
those  resources.  Very  soon,  in  five  to  seven  years,  the  crisis 
will  come,  and  we  may  have  to  choose  between  our  lifestyle 
and  maintaining  our  world  position.  They  estimate  that  70 
trillion  dollars  is  the  investment  needed  just  to  maintain  the 
existing  bridges,  highways,  tracks — that's  a  huge  investment. 

Thibault:  Well,  perhaps  we'll  let  the  elderly  starve. 

Diwan:  I'm  not  convinced  we  need  to  make  those  choices. 
We  can  do  everything  we  need  to  do — it's  just  that  we  spend 
too  much  on  defense.  If  you  were  to  look  at  all  the  objectives 
of  national  defense — A,  security,  B,  the  security  of  our  allies, 
C,  influence  in  various  countries,  and  D,  you  can  add  any- 
thing else  you  want — the  expenditures  we  are  incurring  are 
far,  far  larger  than  are  necessary  to  satisfy  our  objectives. 

Vlahos:  Not  by  the  standards  of  the  rest  of  the  world. 

Diwan:  Why  should  we  worry  what  the  rest  of  the  world 
thinks? 

Vlahos:  Nations  spend  as  much  as  they  can  on  defense  not 
only  because  they  live  in  an  apparently  chaotic  and  insecure 
world,  but  because  it's  very  difficult  to  spend  what  you  con- 
sider enough  on  defense.  You're  always  putting  in  those  extra 
marginal  bucks,  just  in  case.  That's  why  a  lot  of  very  poor 
countries  who  can't  afford  it  at  all,  are  killing  themselves,  be- 
cause that  extra  margin  of  expenditure  may  be  the  margin 
that  nets  them  security  in  the  future. 

Goodman:  If  we're  engaging  in  futuristic  scenarios,  there's  the 
theory  that  one  reason  for  this  focus  on  defense  is  to  create  a 
world  economy  in  which  the  only  way  to  stimulate  your  econ- 
omy is  through  defense  expenditures.  Since  Russia  and  the 


United  States  are  the  only  nations  big  enough  to  make  that 
work,  this  would  make  the  whole  rest  of  the  world  dependent 
on  the  United  States  and  Russia. 

Rahe:  Nevertheless,  if  you  look  at  current  military  expendi- 
tures, they  are  meant  to  serve  the  transnational  economic  or- 
der. Most  of  the  money  that  the  Reagan  administration  pro- 
poses putting  into  the  military  is  being  put  into  the  Navy,  and 
the  function  of  the  Navy  is  freedom  of  the  seas. 

Thibault:  What  do  you  vote  for,  lad? 

Goodman:  Survivalism. 

Vlahos:  I'm  getting  pretty  pessimistic.  This  endless  litany — not 
litany,  but  the  frequent  announcement  of  American  decline 
makes  me  wonder  whether  the  post-1945,  1950  world  was  in 
fact  the  high  stage  of  the  West.  Then  we  came  closest  to  cre- 
ating not  simply  an  imposed  ecumenical  order  but  the  one 
that  was  accepted.  I  wonder  whether  we're  facing  a  period  of 
collapse  and  crisis,  in  which  regional  empires  will  become  the 
political  canvas  of  the  future,  if  not  the  economic  structure. 

I  even  wonder  if  it's  no  longer  possible  for  the  U.S.  to 
avoid  the  true  imperial  mantle.  I  don't  think  America  has 
been  an  empire  in  the  classic  sense,  but  rather  the  leader  of  a 
worldwide  federation.  But  now  that  we  are  in  some  sense  de- 
clining, that  very  loss  of  ascendancy  may  lead  us  to  formalize 
our  structures,  so  that  we  go  into  a  period  of  real  empire. 

Kargon:  I  think  we  are  coming  to  see  that  the  urge  to  rule  is 
a  snare  and  a  delusion  that's  more  trouble  than  it's  worth. 
We're  not  going  to  be  the  only  ones  to  come  to  that  conclu- 
sion in  the  next  half-century  or  so. 

Rahe:  I  began  with  Thucydides  and  I'm  going  to  end  with 
Thucydides.  This  is  another  passage  from  the  Melian  Dia- 
logue, where  the  Athenians  address  the  Melians.  They  say, 
"Hope,  that  comforter  in  danger!  If  one  already  has  solid  ad- 
vantages to  fall  back  upon,  one  can  indulge  in  hope.  It  may 
do  harm,  but  it  will  not  destroy  one. 

"Hope  is  by  nature  an  expensive  commodity,  and  those 
who  are  risking  their  all  on  one  cast  find  out  what  it  means 
only  when  they  are  already  ruined.  .  .  .  Do  not  let  this  hap- 
pen to  you,  you  who  are  weak  and  whose  fate  depends  on  a 
single  movement  of  the  scale,  and  do  not  be  like  those  people 
who,  as  so  commonly  happens,  miss  the  chance  of  saving 
themselves  in  a  human  and  practical  way,  and  when  every 
clear  and  distinct  hope  has  left  them  in  their  adversity,  turn 
to  what  is  blind  and  vague,  to  prophecies  and  oracles  and 
such  things,  which  by  encouraging  hope  lead  men  to  ruin." 


XVI 


ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


WPI CIASS  NOTES 


WPI  Alumni  Association 

President,  Peter  H.  Horstmann,  '55 
Senior  Vice  President, 

Harry  W.  Tenney,  Jr.,  '56 
Vice  President, 

Donald  E.  Ross,  '54 
Secretary-Treasurer, 

Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66 
Past  President,  John  H.  McCabe,  '68 

Executive  Committee 
members-at-large 

Henry  P.  Allessio,  '61;  Phihp  B.  Ryan,  '65; 
John  M.  McHugh,  '56;  Anson  C.  Fyler,  '45. 

Fund  Board 

Henry  Styskal,  Jr.,  '50,  chair;  Richard  B. 
Kennedy,  '65,  vice  chair;  Gerald  Finkle, 
'57;  Allen  H.  Levesque,  '59;  Philip  H.  Pud- 
dington,  '59;  Richard  A.  Davis,  '53;  C.  John 
Lindegren,  '39;  John  M.  Tracy,  '52. 


1908 


Sumner  Davis,  who  recently  celebrated  his  97th 
birthday,  is  one  of  the  longest  serving  Boy  Scout 
leaders  in  America.  For  30  years  he  was  a 
scoutmaster.  Later  he  was  a  merit  badge  ex- 
aminer, a  member  of  several  BSA  councils  and 
chairman  of  the  Sea  Scout  committee.  In  1933 
he  won  the  BSA  Silver  Beaver  Award,  the 
highest  scouting  honor  an  adult  can  receive. 
He  helped  to  organize  the  Sea  Scouts,  the  fore- 
runner of  the  Explorers,  a  scouting  organiza- 
tion for  older  boys.  Currently  located  in  Lex- 
ington, KY,  in  1973  he  published  a  350-page 
family  genealogy  book  which  he  compiled  from 
documents  dating  back  to  1599. 


1921 


Ricardo  Pereira  has  moved  from  Rio  de  Ja- 
neiro to  Curitiba,  PR,  Brazil. 


1923 


The  Howard  Nuttings  spent  the  winter  in  La- 
guna  Beach,  CA. 


1925 


Sigurd  Wendin  is  a  valuation  specialist  with 


50th  Reunion  of  WPI  '32 

Who  said  you  can't  turn  back  the  clock?  Sev- 
enty youthful  and  energetic  men  and  their 
spouses  disproved  that  theory  at  our  50th  re- 
union in  June. 

Moreover  we  won  the  prize  for  the  highest 
percentage  of  living  members  attending  reun- 
ion weekend  festivities  among  the  major  re- 
union classes — the  25th,  40th  and  50th.  We  also 
chose  officers  for  the  55th  reunion.  We  regret 
that  illness  in  their  families  kept  some  of  our 
classmates  away. 

The  Sheraton-Lincoln  Inn  was  the  setting  for 
a  relaxed  afternoon  of  greeting  and  chatting 
with  old  friends  as  they  signed  in  on  Thursday. 
A  gracious  reception  was  held  in  the  evening 
at  the  home  of  President  and  Mrs.  Edmund  T. 
Cranch,  followed  by  a  superb  roast  beef  dinner 
at  Higgins  House  on  the  campus.  Later,  up- 
dates on  what  WPI  has  been  doing  and  what 
it  hopes  to  attain  in  the  future  were  presented. 
When  we  were  transported  back  to  the  hos- 


pitality suite  at  the  Inn,  admittedly  not  many 
stayed  up  into  the  wee  hours  of  the  morning. 

On  Friday,  a  walking  tour  of  the  campus — 
resplendent  in  spring  growth — evoked  nostal- 
gia. Scientific  equipment — undreamed  of  by  us 
as  students — plus  many  new  buildings,  addi- 
tions and  renovations  were  a  revelation.  WPI 
is  keeping  up-to-date!  Following  an  abundant 
buffet,  mini-courses  and  a  trip  to  Alden  Re- 
search Laboratory  were  available.  Our  own  class 
banquet  was  held  at  the  Sheraton-Lincoln  Inn 
in  the  evening.  Professor  John  van  Alstyne  was 
our  speaker.  An  eloquent  invocation  listing  our 
deceased  classmates  was  delivered  by  our  ban- 
quet chairman.  Prizes  in  various  categories 
evoked  joviality  and  good  humor. 

On  Saturday,  we  became  the  youngest  mem- 
bers of  the  50- Year  Associates,  heard  enchant- 
ingly  bright  coeds  tell  of  their  experiences  at 
WPI,  learned  more  about  the  WPI  Plan,  and 
joined  in  the  general  reunion  luncheon. 

See  you  all  at  the  55th! 

— Edwin  Tucker,  Reunion  Chair 


Sigurd  R.  Wendin  &  Associates,  Inc.,  Detroit, 
MI. 


1926 


Bill  Crabtree  is  serving  a  three-year  term  as  a 
member  of  the  Wilmington  (NC)  Transit  Au- 
thority. Last  October  he  was  elected  president 
of  the  Wilmington  Golden  K  Kiwanis  Club. 


1927 


Charles  Parker  continues  as  a  self-employed 
patent  attorney  in  Kensington,  MD. 


1929 


Arthur  Gilbert,  Jr.,  consults  two  or  three  days 
a  week  at  Cheatham  Electric  Switching  Device 
Co.  of  Safetran  Systems,  Inc.,  Louisville,  KY. 


1930 


Last  year  Ralph  Gilbert  retired  as  president  of 
Modern  Concrete  Pumping  Co.,  Inc.,  Newing- 
ton,  CT. 
Eugene  Lowe,  Jr.,  retired  in  January  as  an 


electrician  at  Bemis  Co.,  Inc.,  St.  Louis,  MO. 
Walter  Rutman  holds  the  position  of  presi- 
dent at  Herald  Press,  Inc.,  Pawtucket,  RI. 


1931 


Jay  Harpell  continues  as  an  electrical  engineer 
for  TMSI  Arabia,  in  Dhahran,  Saudi  Arabia. 


1933 


Hugo  Borgatti  retired  from  UniRoyal  in  1974. 
Before  his  wife,  Catherine,  passed  away  last 
year,  they  spent  a  happy  retirement  traveling. 
Hawaii,  Las  Vegas  and  Ireland  were  some  of 
the  places  they  visited.  Currently,  Hugo  lives 
in  Dunedin,  FL,  where  he  plays  lots  of  golf. 

The  Bob  Fultons  reside  in  Portland,  ME.  They 
have  an  interest  in  genealogy,  and  have  learned 
that  she  has  a  direct  family  line  back  to  the 
Mayflower  and  that  he  has  four.  They  both 
belong  to  the  Mayflower  Descendants. 

Don  Haskins  reports  from  Brigham  City,  UT, 
that  he  and  Eleanor  are  grateful  to  have  en- 
joyed good  health  in  five  years  of  retirement. 
"We  have  become  trailering  enthusiasts,  al- 
though not  full-timers.  Each  year  we  have  spent 
two  months  or  more  visiting  Florida,  Canada, 
Mexico,  New  England  and  the  Pacific  North- 
west, Arizona  and  Hawaii."  On  one  trip  they 
saw  Frank  Roberts  and  his  wife  and  Bobbie 


AUGUST  1982 


29 


Eric  Soderberg — 
"Citizen  of  the  Year'* 

He  is  "Eric"  of  a  formidable  United  Way- 
fund-raising  force  known  as  "Eric's  Raid- 
ers." a  guiding  light  in  his  Rotary  Club's 
scholarship  program  and  an  enthusiastic 
volunteer  for  Recording  for  the  Blind.  In 
short,  he  is  Eric  Soderberg.  "35,  Milford. 
Connecticut's  1981  Citizen  of  the  Year. 

When  the  local  newspaper,  the  Milford 
Citizen,  invited  nominations  for  its  cov- 
eted award.  Soderberg's  name  was  among 
the  finalists.  A  spokesman  for  the  news- 
paper reported.  "After  an  examination  of 
[Soderberg's]  activities,  it  became  appar- 
ent that  he  was  a  clear  choice  for  this 
year's  award."  His  great  service  to  the 
community  made  the  judges'  decision  an 
easy  one. 

Along  with  his  United  Way  activities, 
Soderberg  is  energetically  involved  with 
the  Milford  Rotary,  for  which  he  has  served 
as  president.  He  is  especially  interested 
in  the  annual  scholarships  that  the  Ro- 
tarians  award  for  study  abroad  and  says, 
"We've  got  to  make  this  world  smaller  if 
we  are  to  get  along." 

Another  of  his  pet  projects  is  Record- 
ing for  the  Blind,  in  which  books  are  read 
aloud  and  taped  for  the  enjoyment  of  the 
blind  and  handicapped.  During  the  re- 
cording session,  he  works  as  a  monitor, 
following  the  text  for  accuracy  and  inter- 
pretation, while  a  partner  reads  aloud. 

A  Worcester  native,  Soderberg  holds  a 
BS  in  mechanical  engineering  from  WPI. 


He  is  married  and  the  father  of  a  son  and 
two  daughters.  Soderberg  got  into  the 
plastic  molding  business  early  in  his  ca- 
reer, "thanks  to  a  Portuguese  interviewer 
who  had  it  in  his  head  that  all  Swedes  were 
mechanically  talented."  He  later  went  on 
to  become  a  partner  in  Newburgh  Molded 
Products  in  New  York,  from  which  he  is 
retired  as  treasurer. 

His  "retirement"  is  as  busy  at  home  as 
it  is  in  the  community.  He  has  traveled  to 
Europe,  is  planning  a  trip  to  Mexico  and 
would  like  to  go  to  Israel.  But  he  always 
spends  summer  at  home  in  the  Laurel 
Beach  section  of  Milford.  "Love  the 
neighborhood.  Who  would  want  to  leave 
such  a  beautiful  place  in  warm  weather?" 
Certainly  not  Eric  Soderberg,  a  manager 
of  the  Laurel  Beach  Association  and 
Greater  Milford's  Citizen  of  the  Year. 


and  George  Lyman  joined  them  on  their  trip 
to  Mexico. 

Sumner  Norton  is  still  working  as  a  sales  rep- 
resentative for  Potdevin  Machine  Co.  in  Te- 
terboro,  NJ.  He  lives  in  Chappaqua,  NY.  Be- 
sides playing  golf  with  a  handicap  of  18,  he  is 
actively  engaged  in  bridge  competition  aiming 
to  become  a  Life  Master. 

Wes  Reed  retired  from  American  Optical 
seven  years  ago  and  is  living  in  Woodstock, 
CT.  He  collects  and  restores  antique  musical 
instruments  and  cuts  wood  for  auxiliary  heat. 
With  Wes  an  engineer  and  his  wife  an  artist, 
their  interests  in  old  civilizations  have  led  them 
to  travels  through  Europe,  the  Greek  Islands 
and  more  recently  the  Mayan  ruins  in  Yucatan 
on  a  Smithsonian  tour 

In  December  Judge  Joseph  Virostek,  the  first 
Justice  of  the  Uxbridge  (MA)  Division  of  the 
District  Court  Department,  reached  manda- 
tory retirement  age.  He  was  named  to  his  latest 
post  in  1979  after  having  served  as  a  full-time 
special  justice  for  two  years.  He  graduated  with 
his  LLB  from  Northeastern  University  in  1942 
and  was  admitted  to  the  Massachusetts  Bar  the 
followmg  year  In  1969  he  was  appointed  a 
judge.  From  1943  to  1977,  he  was  also  in  gen- 
eral practice  of  law.  During  his  career  Judge 
Virostek  has  served  as  town  clerk,  town  ac- 
countant, state  senator  from  Worcester's  4th 


District,  town  counsel  and  assistant  district  at- 
torney of  Worcester  County. 

Sumner  B.  Sweetser,  Class  Secretary 


1934 


Leonard  Aimy  now  resides  in  Costa  Rica,  Cen- 
tral America. 

G.  Standish  Beebe  holds  the  post  of  executive 
coordinator  of  the  New  England  Construction 
Users  Council.  He  resides  in  Gales  Ferry,  CT. 


1935 


Karl  Bohaker  writes  that  he  has  five  grand- 
daughters and  a  four-year-old  grandson  who 
can  ski.  "Also  we  have  a  two-year-old  great- 
grandson  in  Golden,  CO,  who  will  be  a  skier." 


1936 


Carl  Borden,  retired  from  du  Font's  textile  fi- 
bers division,  is  currently  the  senior  vice  pres- 
ident  of  the   National   Alliance   of  Business 


(NAB),  which  sponsors  job  programs  for  mi- 
norities and  the  hard-to-employ. 

C.  James  Ethier  serves  as  chairman  of  the 
board  of  Bush  Bros.  &  Co.,  Dandridge,  TN. 

Alan  Shepardson  was  in  Schwaz,  Austria,  last 
summer  doing  some  grinding  wheel  work  for 
Schleifmittelwerke  Swarovski.  He  says  that 
Schwaz  is  right  in  the  middle  of  the  Tyrolean 
Alps,  not  far  from  Innsbruck. 


1937 


Morton  Fine,  formerly  with  Morton  S.  Fine  and 
Associates,  Inc.,  Hartford.  CT,  has  been  ap- 
pointed program  manager  of  WPFs  new  Man- 
ufacturing Engineering  Applications  Center, 
which  offers  students  hands-on  experience  in 
industrial  robotics. 

Fran  Harvey,  a  WPI  trustee  emeritus,  was 
recently  appointed  a  co-chairman  of  the  cor- 
porations/banking subscriptions  committee  for 
the  St.  Vincent  Hospital  amphitheater  and 
medical  library  campaign  in  Worcester.  He  will 
lead  the  committee  members  in  raising  funds 
to  build  and  equip  the  $1 .2  million  educational 
health  sciences  facility. 

Carl  Larson,  Jr.,  is  president  of  Growth  En- 
terprises, Inc.,  Glastonbury,  CT. 

Foster  Powers  has  retired  after  43  years  with 
Industrial  Risk  Insurers.  He  writes:  "With  ac- 
tivity in  the  Masonic  bodies  and  church  and 
civic  organizations  and  semi-skilled  puttering 
around  the  house  and  grounds,  I  have  no  trou- 
ble occupying  'leisure'  time." 

After  40  years  of  designing  dams,  Oliver  Raine 
retired  from  the  Dams  Division  of  the  Ten- 
nessee Valley  Authority  in  April  1980.  He  had 
been  connected  with  the  design  of  TVA's  high- 
est, the  480  ft.  Fontana  concrete  gravity  dam, 
and  large  earth  and  earth-rockfill  dams,  some 
up  to  320  ft.  high.  Three  federal  boards  were 
created  to  help  with  dam  safety,  with  Ray  Lin- 
sley ,  '37 ,  serving  on  one  of  the  panels  of  outside 
experts.  Raine  had  a  major  hand  in  all  of  the 
TVA  inputs  to  the  three  main  reports  and  was 
the  lead  compiler  and  editor  of  the  final  report, 
entitled:  "Federal  Guidelines  for  Dam  Safety." 
He  is  currently  located  in  Knoxville,  TN. 

M.  Blair  Whitcomb  retired  last  July  after  43 
years  with  GE.  He  was  concerned  with  incom- 
ing material  quality  control  for  the  last  1 1  years 
at  the  GE  Charleston  (SC)  large  steam  turbine 
department  plant.  Besides  travel,  Whitcomb 
enjoys  woodworking. 


1938 


After  14  years  with  Wentworth  by-the-Sea  in 
Portsmouth,  NH,  Dick  Court  is  now  in  the  sales 
and  marketing  department  at  the  Lake  Morey 
Inn  and  Country  Club  on  Lake  Morey  in  Fair- 
lee,  VT. 

Werner  Held  is  a  visiting  instructor  at  the 
University  of  Montana  in  Missoula. 


1939 


Harri-son  Brown  is  now  a  tour  guide  at  the  Al- 
abama Space  and  Rocket  Center,  "the  best 
museum  of  space  in  the  country." 


30        WPI  JOURNAL 


John  Driscoll  is  a  consultant  with  J.M.  Dris- 
coll  Associates,  Westport,  CT. 

Roger  Kelsey,  a  retired  plant  engineer  for 
B.F.  Goodrich  Corp.,  is  currently  building 
yachts  at  Kelsey's  Marine  Railway,  Short  Beach, 
CT. 

Dick  Wilson,  who  retired  as  district  staff  en- 
gineer from  Long  Beach  Unified  School  Com- 
munity last  September,  continues  as  secretary 
of  an  ASME  national  committee  and  as  a  Pa- 
cific Region  Policy  Board  member.  In  Novem- 
ber he  chaired  a  panel  session  at  the  ASME 
Winter  Annual  Meeting  in  Washington,  DC. 


1940 


Edward  Cross  serves  as  treasurer  of  Alden 
Electronic  &  Impulse  Recording  Equipment 
Co.,  Inc.,  Westboro,  MA. 

Willard  Gove  is  vice  president  of  corporate 
real  estate  and  field  administration  at  Honey- 
well, Inc.,  Minneapolis,  MN. 

Zareh  Martin  recently  retired  from  industry, 
but  is  now  "continuing  my  instruction  at  North- 
eastern University  in  the  areas  of  mathematics, 
production  management  and  value  engineer- 
ing." 


1941 


Dr.  George  Cowan  was  recently  named  to  a 
one-year  term  on  the  White  House  Science 
Council  which  advises  President  Reagan's  sci- 
ence advisor.  Dr.  George  Keyworth,  on  major 
technological  issues.  He  is  a  laboratory  senior 
fellow  at  Los  Alamos  National  Laboratory  and 
has  held  teaching  assistant  and  research  sci- 
entist posts  at  Princeton,  the  Metallurgical 
Laboratory  of  the  University  of  Chicago,  Co- 
lumbia University  and  the  Carnegie  Institute 
of  Technology  (now  Carnegie-Mellon),  from 
which  he  received  his  PhD  in  physical  chem- 
istry. 

Leslie  Harding  is  now  a  general  manager  for 


the  U.S.  Postal  Service  in  Atlanta,  GA. 

Russell  Parks  is  director  of  the  project  en- 
gineering division  at  Procter  &  Gamble, 

E.  Alvin  Rich  is  sales  manager  for  Lightning 
Elimination  Associates,  Inc. ,  Santa  Fe  Springs, 
CA.  He  is  a  professional  engineer  in  Massa- 
chusetts and  California. 

Ralph  Stinson  continues  with  Emhart  Indus- 
tries and  is  currently  located  in  the  Republic 
of  Singapore. 


1943 


Mike  Brautigam  has  retired  from  Pratt  &  Whit- 
ney Aircraft  after  27  years  of  service.  At  his 
retirement  he  was  with  the  financial  depart- 
ment handling  engineering  department  con- 
tracts with  the  government.  Although  their 
permanent  base  is  a  log  cabin  in  Pawlet,  VT, 
the  Brautigams  enjoy  travel  and  in  the  last  two 
years  have  been  on  a  cruise  in  the  Bahamas 
and  to  a  family  reunion  in  Frankfurt,  Germany, 
which  was  attended  by  some  60  relatives,  in- 
cluding his  brothers,  Bob,  '41,  and  Larry,  '49. 

H.  Henry  Ferris,  Jr.,  holds  the  position  of 
vice  president  of  the  Bache  Group  of  Pruden- 
tial, La  Jolla,  CA. 

Burton  Wright,  formerly  with  GE  as  a  senior 
design  engineer,  is  now  retired  and  residing  in 
Lanesboro,  MA. 


1944 


Currently  Newton  Burr  is  a  management  con- 
sultant at  Profit  Management  Development  in 
Barrington,  IL. 

Richard  Carson  serves  as  a  chief  project  en- 
gineer in  the  engineering  department  at  Tex- 
aco, Inc.,  in  Houston. 

Alfred  Larkin  has  retired  as  vice  president 
of  the  international  division  at  Rexnord,  Inc., 
Milwaukee ,.WI.  He  is  now  consulting  part  time. 

John  Lee,  who  is  retired,  currently  resides 
in  Pt.  Charlotte,  FL. 


40th  Reunion  of  WPr42 

The  hurricane  of  1938,  the  undefeated  WPI 
football  and  soccer  teams  of  the  same  year,  A. 
J.  Knight,  Doc  Masius,  Charlie  Allen,  Car- 
berry's  Pub,  ground-breaking  for  AJden  Me- 
morial, burning  of  the  "sanitary  lab,"  and 
Marlboro  Country  Club  with  the  "dancers"  were 
all  topics  of  conversation  when  '42  held  its  40th 
Reunion  in  June. 

It's  true:  the  rains  started  Friday  afternoon 
and  continued  through  the  weekend  into  Tues- 
day, before  Ray  and  Dottie  Arey  could  get 
their  plane  airborne  and  back  home  to  Mary- 
land. But  spirits  were  high,  conversation  was 
animated,  flash  guns  were  popping,  and  no- 
body cared  about  the  weather! 

Friday  evening,  at  the  home  of  President 
Edmund  and  Virginia  Cranch,  we  were  wel- 
comed back  in  the  very  rooms  where,  as  brand- 
new  grads,  we  were  guests  of  Admiral  Cluver- 
ius.  Then,  to  the  Higgins  House,  where  some 
2,000  clams  and  80  lobsters  insisted  on  being 
sacrificed   in    a   magnificent   clambake.    Re- 


splendent in  our  '42  "bibs,"  we  overcame  those 
shelled  monsters,  with  the  help  of  Frank  As- 
pin's  expertise. 

Our  hospitality  suite  in  Ellsworth  almost  never 
stopped  entertaining!  Friends  came  and  went — 
visiting  campus,  participating  in  seminars,  and 
driving  around  looking  for  old  familiar  places. 
Bob  Allen  waS  one  of  the  stars  of  the  Reunion 
Luncheon  as  he  presented  1942's  gift  to  WPI, 
he  noted  that  the  money  will  be  used  as  schol- 
arship endowment. 

On  Saturday  evening,  our  Class  Banquet  at 
Tatnuck  Country  Club  witnessed  the  unveiling 
of  beautiful  Class  of  '42  40th  Reunion  plates 
and  the  election  of  five-year  class  officers:  Ray 
Arey,  Pres.;  Bob  Chaffe,  Vice  Pres.;  Roy 
Bourgault,  Secretary;  Bob  Allen,  Treasurer. 
Professor  Emeritus  Bill  and  Eva  Locke  were 
our  guests.  And  coach  Bob  Weiss,  speaking 
informally,  gave  a  fine  picture  of  WPI  football 
today. 

Sunday  morning's  brunch  featured  affection- 
ate good-byes  and  thoughts  of  how  our  45th 
can  be  as  wonderful  as  our  40th. 

— Roy  Bourgault,  Secretary 


Miles  Roth  is  director  of  information  systems 
at  Marlin  Firearms  Co.,  North  Haven,  CT. 


1945 


James  Breed  works  as  a  quality  assurance  en- 
gineer for  Kaiser  Engineers  Hanford  of  Rich- 
land, WA. 

Dr.  Ernest  Kretzmer  holds  the  post  of  di- 
rector of  customer  systems  research  at  Bell  Labs 
in  Holmdel,  NJ. 

Eugene  Logan  is  employed  as  general  man- 
ager of  construction  at  Public  Service  Electric 
&  Gas,  Newark,  NJ. 


1946 


John  Barrett,  Jr.,  is  president  of  Barrett  Con- 
sultants, Inc.  He  is  located  in  Reading,  MA. 

Currently  Richard  Brown  serves  as  a  tech- 
nical integration  manager  at  GE  in  San  Jose, 
CA. 

Robert  Hayward  holds  the  position  of  vice 
president  at  Delafield  Harvey  Tabell,  Phila- 
delphia. 

Frank  Whiting  is  a  transitman  surveyor  for 
L.  Perkins  &  Son  Civil  Engineers.  He  is  head- 
quartered in  Hingham,  MA. 


1947 


John  Harding,  Jr. ,  is  vice  president  and  chief 
scientist  at  Litton  Data  Systems,  Van  Nuys,  CA. 

H.  Edwin  Johnson  is  now  a  program  manager 
at  Honeywell  Information  Systems,  Phoenix. 

Robert  Mark  is  manager  of  non-union  em- 
ployee relations  at  GE  in  Fairfield,  CT. 

Donald  Thompson  is  the  president-owner  of 
Bycroft  Enterprises,  Inc.,  Simsbury,  CT. 


1948 


Richard  Atwood  serves  as  senior  specialist  en- 
gineer at  Boeing  Aerospace  in  Seattle,  WA. 

Roger  Cromack,  account  executive  in  the 
Major  Account  Division  at  Marsh  &  Mc- 
Lennan's  New  York  office,  has  been  named  a 
managing  director  of  Marsh  &  McLennan,  Inc., 
the  world's  largest  insurance  broker.  He  is  a 
member  of  the  WPI  Alumni  Council. 

Thomas  Grove,  Jr.,  is  an  engineering  asso- 
ciate in  the  Engineering  Division  at  Kodak  in 
Rochester,  NY. 

Leon  Lipton  continues  as  a  graduate  student 
at  the  University  of  Arizona,  Tucson. 


1949 


Russell  Bradlaw  continues  with  Turner  Con- 
struction Co.,  Houston,  where  he  is  project 
manager. 

Gordon  Duncan  has  retired  from  Pratt  & 
WKitney  Aircraft.  He  is  residing  in  North  Palm 
Peach,  FL. 

James  Genser  works  as  a  project  manager  at 
Kintech  Services,  Inc.,  in  Cincinnati. 


AUGUST  1982        31 


Now  retired  as  technical  director  of  the  Elec- 
tronic Systems  Division.  Hanscom  AFB,  Mu- 
rad  Piligian  is  currently  a  self-employed  con- 
sultant in  Needham.  MA. 

Smil  Ruhman  is  the  Norman  D.  Cohen  Pro- 
fessor of  Computer  Science  at  Weizmann  In- 
stitute of  Science  in  Rehovoth.  Israel. 

Donald  Weikman  is  vice  president  of  Mid- 
western Gas  Transmission  Co.,  Houston. 


1950 


Richard  Amidon  is  currently  a  consultant  for 
management  operating  systems  at  R.E.  Ami- 
don Associates.  Hancock,  NH. 

Recently,  Bill  Bowen  retired  from  Torring- 
ton  Co.  after  31  years.  He  now  heads  Bowen 
Consulting  in  Harwinton,  CT. 

David  Danielson  works  as  a  senior  engineer 
in  the  Nuclear  Fuel  &  Services  Engineering 
Department  at  GE  in  San  Jose.  CA. 

Richard  Jones  is  employed  as  an  R&D  en- 
gineer at  John  J.  Riley  Co.,  a  subsidiary  of 
Beatrice  Foods,  Inc.,  Woburn,  MA. 

Paul  Seibold  is  a  senior  systems  engineer  at 
Riley  Stoker  in  Worcester. 

Henry  Styskal,  Jr.,  has  been  named  presi- 
dent and  chief  executive  officer  and  elected  to 
the  board  of  Metritape,  Inc.,  Concord,  MA,  a 
manufacturer  of  gauging  and  control  systems. 
Previously  he  was  president  of  Teledyne  TAC, 


a  maker  of  automated  equipment.  He  serves 
as  chairman  of  the  WPI  Alumni  Fund  Board. 


1951 


Robert  Baldwin  is  director  of  sales  at  Heat  Re- 
search Corp.,  a  member  of  the  Wheelabrator- 
Frye  group  of  companies  in  New  York  City. 

Richard  Coffey,  Jr.,  is  manager  of  technol- 
ogy for  Monsanto  Co.,  Indian  Orchard,  MA. 

Richard  Howard  was  a  co-recipient  of  the 
David  W.  Armstrong  Award  from  the  Worces- 
ter Boys"  Club  in  April.  The  award  is  presented 
"to  former  members  whose  achievements  in 
adult  life  were  influenced  in  a  significant  way 
by  their  active  years  of  membership  in  the 
Worcester  Boys"  Club.""  Howard  is  president 
of  Therm,  Inc. 


1952 


Everett  Bagley ,  continuing  with  du  Pont,  is  now 
systems  consultant  for  the  firm  in  Wilmington, 
DE. 

Monroe  Dickinson  holds  the  post  of  director 
at  Owego  Laboratory,  IBM  Corp.,  Owego,  NY. 

W.  Dieter  Hauser  is  vice  president  of  engi- 
neering and  administration  at  KOA  Speer 
Electronics,  Inc.  in  Bradford,  PA. 


J 

,,1411 IBI^. 

^B 

u^ 

Dick  Cloues  Retires 
From  Bechtel 

Richard  "Dick"  Cloues,  '38,  a  lifetime 
member  of  the  WPI  President's  Advisory 
Council,  has  retired  from  International 
Bechtel,  Inc. ,  following  more  than  16  years 
of  distinguished  service. 

On  the  occasion  of  his  retirement,  the 
president  of  Bechtel  Civil  &  Minerals,  Inc. 
cited  Cloues's  accomplishments  on  a  va- 
riety of  domestic  and  international  as- 
signments, including  project  engineer  with 
the  National  Steel  pellet  plant  expansion 
in  Keewatin,  Minnesota,  the  Amman 
(Jordan)  Civil  Airport,  Dubai  (U.A.F,.) 
International  Airport  Expansion  and  the 
Gun  I);im  project  in  \'cnc/iic-l;i 


He  has  met  professional  requirements 
for  registration  in  ten  states,  including 
Florida,  New  York  and  California,  and 
he  has  presented  numerous  papers  before 
the  National  Society  of  Professional  En- 
gineers and  other  professional  organiza- 
tions. His  article,  "Engineering  Ethics:  Can 
It  Be  Defined?"  was  published  in  Civil 
Engineering  Magazine  in  1956.  He  has  been 
listed  in  Who's  Who  since  that  year. 

Dick  Cloues's  private  life  has  also  been 
busy.  He  has  served  the  church  in  many 
capacities.  He  is  a  Mason,  and  he  has  been 
a  member  of  the  United  Christian  Mis- 
sionary Society.  Active  with  the  Boy  Scouts 
of  America,  other  interests  have  included 
the  Parent-Teachers  Association  (PTA) 
and  United  Fund  drives.  Pastimes  include 
camping,  canoeing,  gardening,  swim- 
ming, reading  and  bridge. 

A  native  of  Shrewsbury,  Massachu- 
setts, Cloues  is  married  to  his  "college 
days  sweetheart,"  the  former  Doris  Dick- 
inson of  Westboro.  They  have  four  mar- 
ried sons  with  families  of  their  own.  One 
son,  Steve,  a  church  planning  consultant 
for  the  Baptist  Association  Council,  Bir- 
mingham, AL,  received  his  BSCE  from 
WPI  in  1965. 

In  January,  after  his  retirement  from 
Bechtel,  Cloues  and  his  four  sons  set  up 
a  family  corporation,  Cloues  &  Sons  En- 
terprises, Inc.  in  Millbrae,  California. 
Cloues  is  now  president,  director  and  chief 
executive  officer  of  this  land  development 
c()nip;iii\ 


Lester  Lloyd,  Jr.,  holds  the  position  of  re- 
gional director  for  the  U.S.  Bureau  of  Recla- 
mation, Boise,  ID. 


1953 


David  Beach  holds  the  post  of  program  man- 
ager of  consumer  products  at  Kodak  in  Roch- 
ester, NY. 

Dr.  Michael  Hoechstetter  is  a  product  coding 
specialist  at  Ashland  Chemical  Co. ,  Columbus, 
OH. 

Kenneth  Shiatte  serves  as  director  of  the  transit 
division  for  the  New  York  State  Department 
of  Transportation.  He  is  located  in  Albany. 


1954 


Walter  Dziura  is  manager  of  field  equipment 
and  R&D  at  Scovill  Mfg.  Co.,  Apparel  Divi- 
sion, Watertown,  CT. 

John  Herz,  vice  president  and  general  man- 
ager of  Times  Fiber  Communications,  Inc., 
Wallingford,  CT,  has  been  named  head  of  the 
newly  created  Communication  Systems  Divi- 
sion of  the  firm.  The  new  division  is  composed 
of  design,  development,  engineering  and  pro- 
duction of  optical  fiber  and  cables,  opto-elec- 
tronic  components,  test  instruments  and  com- 
munications systems. 

Currently,  Richard  Kirk  is  an  advisory  en- 
gineer for  IBM  in  Boca  Raton,  FL. 

Edwin  Shivell  serves  as  a  department  staff 
general  engineer  at  USN  Underwater  Systems 
Center  in  Newport,  RI. 


1955 


George  Carlson  serves  as  a  cost  consultant  for 
Wolf  New  England  in  Worcester. 

Peter  Horstmann's  daughter,  Heidi,  has  been 
chosen  one  of  the  48  winners  of  a  National 
Merit  Scholarship  in  Massachusetts.  Only  1,800 
scholarships  are  awarded  nationally  each  year. 
A  senior  at  Wachusett  Regional  High  School 
in  Holden,  Heidi  has  also  been  named  a  recip- 
ient of  the  prestigious  Worcester  Telegram  and 
Gazelle  Student  Achievement  Award.  Horst- 
mann  is  vice  president  of  Coppus  Engineering 
Corp.,  Worcester,  and  president  of  the  WPI 
Alumni  Association. 

Bruce  Sealy  is  now  a  senior  marketing  rep- 
resentative for  Wang  Laboratories  in  Creve 
Coeur,  MO. 


1956 


Ted  Coghlin,  a  member  of  the  President's  Ad- 
visory Council  at  WPI,  received  the  Harry  G. 
Stoddard  Award  from  the  Worcester  Boys'  Club 
in  April.  The  award  recognizes  superior  com- 
munity service.  Coghlin  serves  as  a  director  of 
the  Worcester  Boys'  Club,  of  the  Worcester 
Science  Center  and  of  the  Mechanics  Bank.  He 
is  president  of  Coghlin's,  Inc.,  Worcester. 

(>erald  Dyer  of  Dyco  Industries  is  located  in 
Wcslon,  MA. 

James  Green  is  now  a  senior  manufacturing 


32        WPI  JOURNAL 


25th  Reunion  of  WPr57 

Imagine  a  formal  luncheon  for  over  400  men 
and  women  about  to  begin.  A  bagpipe  band 
provides  formal  accompaniment  for  the 
procession  of  dignitaries  marching  toward  the 
head  tables.  Unexpectedly,  as  the  master  of 
ceremonies  approaches  the  podium,  121  of  the 
guests  rise,  put  kazoos  to  their  lips  and  play 
"Yankee  Doodle."  This  uninhibited  group  are 
64  members  and  wives  of  the  Class  of  '57  en- 
joying this  and  every  other  moment  of  reunion 
weekend. 

The  weekend's  rainy  weather  couldn't 
dampen  the  warmth  of  friendships  rekindled. 


Thursday  evening,  following  an  elegant  cock- 
tail party  at  President  and  Mrs.  Edmund 
Cranch's  home,  we  regrouped  at  the  Worcester 
Country  Club  for  an  evening  of  good  company, 
scrumptious  roast  beef  and  singing  of  "Fifties" 
drinking  songs.  We'll  never  forget  the  magic 
of  that  moment,  which  reduced  a  25-year  gap 
to  "only  yesterday." 

Faces  from  the  past  who  joined  us  for  the 
Saturday  dinner  dance  included  Dean  William 
Grogan,  '46,  Ernie  Hollows  (who  came  from 
Ohio  for  the  entire  weekend),  Merl  Norcross, 
and  their  wives.  Merl,  as  guest  speaker,  brought 
back  old  memories.  The  athletes  of  the  class 
played  golf  and  tennis  on  Friday,  followed  by 


a  clambake  feast  in  Morgan  Hall  that  evening. 
Nils  Hagberg,  a  retired  campus  policeman,  was 
our  guest.  He  prevented  a  riot  as  the  now  re- 
tired original  goat's  head  made  a  surprise  ap- 
pearance. A  banjo  band  entertained  during 
dinner  and  at  the  Goat's  Head  Pub  afterward. 
Our  hospitality  suite  stayed  open  into  the  early 
morning  hours  for  conversation  and  libations. 
At  Sunday  brunch,  we  realized  that  in  the 
short  span  of  60  hours,  we  perhaps  understood 
and  appreciated  each  other  better  than  during 
the  often  hectic  days  of  1953-57.  Many  prom- 
ised to  return  again  soon,  perhaps  for  Home- 
coming this  Fall.  Hope  to  see  you  there! 

— Michael  Stephens,  Reunion  Chair 


engmeer  at  Polaroid  Corp.,  Norwood,  MA. 

Harry  Tenney,  Jr.,  holds  the  position  of  in- 
dustry manager  at  Allied  Corp. -Fibers  &  Plas- 
tics, Morristown,  NJ.  He  is  senior  vice  presi- 
dent of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association. 


1958 


Roger  Alvey  is  president  of  Codex  Graph  Pa- 
pers in  Norwood,  MA. 

Norman  Howe,  Jr.,  continues  as  an  associate 
professor  of  chemistry  at  Central  Virginia 
Community  College,  Lynchburg,  VA.  For  three 
years  he  has  been  teaching  fire  science  courses 
at  the  college,  and  he  is  often  called  upon  by 
area  firefighters  for  expert  advice. 

James  Johnson  continues  with  New  Jersey 
Bell,  where  he  is  division  manager  of  security 
and  audit. 

Artist  Bill  Rabinovitch  recently  exhibited  his 
work  at  one-man  shows  in  La  Residence  Res- 
taurant Gallery  and  the  private  gallery  of  Neil 
Pearson,  Esq.  in  New  York,  at  Manufacturers 
Hanover  Trust,  the  International  Running 
Center  and  the  Alain  Bilhaud  Gallery. 

John  Vesey  is  principal  at  Keystone  Christian 
Academy  in  Berryville,  VA. 


1959 


Continuing  with  Hazeltine,  Corp.,  James  Bean 
is  now  system  engineer  for  the  firm  in  Green- 
lawn,  NY. 

Donald  Carignan's  company.  Instrument 
Technology,  Inc.,  Westfield,  MA,  is  currently 
a  leader  in  supplying  remote  viewing  systems 
to  the  nuclear  industry  on  a  worldwide  basis. 

Dr.  David  Evensen  continues  with  Hughes 
Aircraft  Corp.,  El  Segundo,  CA,  where  he  is 
senior  staff  engineer. 

Toby  Kramer  serves  as  a  department  head 
for  the  Eaton  Corp.  AIL  Division  in  Deer  Park, 
NY. 

Norman  Monks  was  recently  elected  presi- 
dent of  L.  Hardy  Co.,  Worcester.  The  former 
manager  of  Rexnord,  Inc.,  Roller  Chain  Di- 
vision, he  has  more  than  22  years  of  experience 
in  manufacturing,  management  and  engineer- 
ing. He  is  president  of  Junior  Achievement  in 
Worcester,  as  well  as  a  director  of  the  Mohegan 
Council,  BSA.  His  company,  L.  Hardy,  man- 
ufactures shaving  and  fleshing  blades  for  the 
leather  industry  and  circular  knives. 

Ernest  Woodtii,  still  with  GE,  is  currently 


manager  of  advanced  manufacturing  engineer- 
ing for  the  firm  in  Bloomington,  IL. 


1960 


Edward  Donoghue  is  now  an  OEM  marketing 
manager  for  Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Marl- 
boro, MA. 

Currently,  Murray  Elowitz  holds  the  post  of 
manager  of  the  TRW  Space  and  Technology 
Group.  He  is  headquartered  in  Redondo  Beach, 
CA. 

Daniel  Gould  is  employed  as  a  senior  indus- 
trial engineer  at  the  Instrumentation  Labora- 
tory in  Watertown,  MA. 

Edmund  Lumley,  HI,  works  as  a  senior  in- 
vestment analyst  for  Union  Carbide,  New  York 
City. 

Robert  Magee  is  employed  as  senior  engi- 
neering manager  for  the  General  Technology 
Division,  a  division  of  IBM  in  East  Fishkill, 
NY. 

John  Reisinger  holds  the  post  of  division 
manager  at  Southern  New  England  Telephone 
Co.,  Hamden,  CT. 

Stanley  Wells,  Jr.,  is  employed  as  manager 
of  development  engineering  for  Deseret  Pol- 
ymer Research  Division,  a  subsidiary  of  War- 
ner-Lambert Corp.,  Dayton,  OH. 


1961 


John  Buckley  is  now  director  of  Black  &  Web- 
ster, Inc.,  Waltham,  MA. 

Robert  Hale  works  as  a  member  of  the  tech- 
nical staff  at  Jet  Propulsion  Laboratory  in  Pas- 
adena, CA. 

Alan  Matley  is  affiliated  with  Aladon  Corp. 
as  a  consultant.  He  is  located  in  Wellesley  Hills, 
MA. 

Currently,  Dr.  Timothy  Meyers,  Jr.,  is  as- 
sociate professor  in  the  department  of  ortho- 
dontics at  Emory  University  School  of  Den- 
tistry in  Atlanta. 

Dr.  Gordon  Parker  serves  as  division  man- 
ager of  development  and  quality  control  at  Es- 
sex Chemical  Co.,  Sayreville,  NJ. 

Richard  Souren  is  vice  president  of  manu- 
facturing for  Rutherford  Machinery,  a  division 
of  Sun  Chemical  Corp.,  East  Rutherford,  NJ. 

Wayne  Taylor  is  employed  as  a  senior  en- 
gineering specialist  at  Ford  Aerospace  &  Com- 
munications Corp.,  Newport  Beach,  CA.  He 
resides  in  Costa  Mesa. 


1962 


John  Brennan  is  an  associate  professor  of  phys- 
ics at  the  University  of  Central  Florida  in  Or- 
lando. 

Victor  Castellani  is  president  of  V.  B.  Cas- 
tellani  &  Company,  Inc.,  Boston. 

Andrew  Edelman  holds  the  post  of  manager 
of  the  pension  department  at  Bruns  Nordeman 
REA  &  Co. ,  a  division  of  Bache,  in  New  York 
City. 

Thomas  Holland  has  joined  Boeing  Aero- 
space Co. ,  Seattle,  WA.  Previously  he  was  em- 
ployed at  Person  &  Person,  Inc. 

William  Krein  holds  the  post  of  vice  presi- 
dent and  controller  at  Zenith  Radio  Corp., 
Glenview,  IL. 

Donald  Marcy  serves  as  a  relocation  sales 
representative  at  R.L.  Schlott  Realtors,  Inc., 
Summit,  NJ. 

Continuing  with  IBM,  Nelson  Parmelee  is  now 
program  manager  in  White  Plains,  NY. 

Harold  Reynolds,  Jr.,  is  manager  of  Ad- 
vanced Programs  at  United  Technologies  Re- 
search Center  in  West  Palm  Beach,  FL. 

Thomas  Tully  serves  as  director  of  opera- 
tions at  Computer  Transceiver  Systems.  He  is 
located  in  Paramus,  NJ. 


1963 


Anthony  Allegrezza  continues  as  a  senior  re- 
search scientist  at  ABCOR,  Inc.,  Wilmington, 
MA. 

David  Dunklee,  Jr.,  lectures  at  Arapahoe 
Community  College,  Littleton,  CO. 

Currently,  Paul  Hausner  is  employed  as  mar- 
keting product  manager  for  Steelcase,  Inc., 
Grand  Rapids,  MI. 

Russell  Hokanson,  transferred  to  Wilming- 
ton, DE,  as  a  design  liaison  supervisor  last  May 
by  du  Pont,  now  coordinates  projects  being 
engineered  in  Wilmington  for  the  reactor  de- 
partment at  the  Savannah  River  plant  in  South 
Carolina. 

Stephen  Kaufman  is  president  and  chief  ex- 
ecutive of  Color  Technology,  Inc.,  Westboro, 
MA.  He  resides  in  Sharon. 

R.  Michael  Malbon  is  manager  of  R&D  at 
Avantek,  Inc.,  Santa  Clara,  CA. 

Robert  Mellor  writes:  "I  will  graduate  from 
the  WPI  SIM  program  in  May  of  1982." 

Formerly  a  department  manager  at  North- 
rop Corporation,  Richard  Norton  is  now  the 
owner  of  R.  J.  Norton  Co.,  Topanga,  CA. 


AUGUST  1982 


33 


Dr.  Roger  Weiss  is  a  technical  supervisor  at 
Bell  Telephone  Labs  in  Whippany,  NJ. 


1964 


Continuing  with  Continental  Can  Company,  J. 
Michael  Anderson  is  currently  manager  of  mar- 
keting and  sales  for  the  firm  in  Stamford,  CT. 

Thomas  Baron  works  as  a  contract  engineer 
for  the  MDC.  Water  Division,  Commonwealth 
of  Massachusetts  in  Boston. 

David  Gendron  works  as  manufacturing  su- 
perintendent at  Monsanto,  Indian  Orchard, 
MA. 

Thomas  Hopper  is  employed  as  an  engi- 
neering manager  at  GCA  Corporation  in  Bed- 
ford, MA. 

Daniel  King  works  as  a  project  manager  at 
Stone  &  Webster  Engineering  Corp..  Boston. 

David  Monks,  manager  of  project  design  in 
Kodak's  Apparatus  Division,  was  one  of  the 
developers  of  Kodaks  revolutionary  new  disc 
camera  which  was  unveiled  in  February.  Monks 
is  the  son  of  Norman  Monks,  '32,  and  the  brother 
of  Norman  Monks,  '59. 

John  Ostrowski  is  employed  as  a  principal 
engineer  at  Polaroid  in  Cambridge.  MA. 

Dr.  Robert  Peura,  coordinator  of  Biomedi- 
cal Engineering  at  WPI,  won  a  three-way  con- 
test for  a  three-year  seat  on  the  Princeton  (MA) 
School  Committee  in  May. 

F.  Barry  Sylvia  is  now  a  principal  project 
engineer  for  Polaroid  Corp.  He  is  headquar- 
tered in  Waltham,  MA. 

David  Usher  is  currently  the  district  opera- 
tions manager  for  Vermont  at  New  England 
Telephone,  Burlington. 


1965 


Frank  Benham,  III,  serves  as  a  section  head  at 
Exxon  Research  &  Engineering  in  Florham 
Park,  NJ. 

Donald  Carlson  holds  the  position  of  quality 
control  manager,  N.B.  Europe,  for Torrington 
Co.-Ingersoll  Rand.  He  is  located  in  Dussel- 
dorf.  West  Germany. 

Maj.  Eugene  Dionne,  USAF,  has  completed 
his  studies  at  the  Air  Force  Command  and  Staff 
College  in  Montgomery,  AL,  and  started  his 
new  assignment  at  the  Pentagon. 

Robert  Gerdes  holds  the  post  of  senior  pro- 
cess engineer  at  PPG  Industries  in  New  Mar- 
tinsville, WV. 

William  Mines,  Jr.,  is  employed  as  a  labo- 
ratory manager  at  du  Pont  in  Stow,  OH. 

John  Kelley,  HI,  holds  the  post  of  vice  pres- 
ident at  Nickcrson  &  O'Day.  Inc  He  is  head- 
quartered in  Bangor,  ME. 

Dr  David  .Schwaber  holds  the  position  of 
vice  president  of  Baltimore-based  Monarch 
Rubber  Co.,  Inc. 

Ruiuell  Trask  is  president  of  Electro  Organ 
Service  m  Melville,  NY. 


1966 


BORN:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs  Grant  P.  Maier  a 
daughter.  Erin  Riley,  on  April  1 1 .  1982.  They 
also  have  an  older  daughter.  Jennifer.  Maier 


Stempel  Takes 
the  Wheel 
At  Chevrolet 

After  spending  17  months  in  West  Ger- 
many directing  Adam  Opel  AG.  a  sub- 
sidiary of  General  Motors  Corporation, 
Robert  C.  Stempel,  "55,  a  WPI  Trustee, 
has  been  called  back  to  the  States  as  gen- 
eral manager  of  the  Chevrolet  Motor  Di- 
vision. GM's  largest  manufacturer. 

Chevrolet's  new  boss  steered  Opel 
through  tumultuous  times,  overseeing 
construction  of  an  assembly  plant  in  Spain 
and  a  multi-billion  dollar  capital-improve- 
ment program  in  Opel  plants  elsewhere. 

"Opel  is  back  in  the  small-car  compe- 
tition in  Europe,"  Stempel  reports.  The 
new  plant  will  produce  a  front-drive  car 
smaller  than  the  Chevrolet  Chevette.  The 
Opel  Ascona  has  just  been  introduced  as 
the  European  version  of  the  Chevrolet 
Cavalier,  and  a  new  small  diesel  engine 
is  in  production. 

"Opel  is  in  the  midst  of  a  product  rev- 
olution that  Chevrolet  recently  experi- 
enced in  the  United  States."  Stempel  re- 
turns to  Chevrolet  as  the  division  rebounds 
from  a  sales  slump  with  a  product  lineup 
that  is  dramatically  different  from  when 
he  left. 

Stempel  joined  GM  in  the  Oldsmobile 
Division  in  1958  and  ultimately  rose  to 


Chevrolet's  chief  engines  and  compo- 
nents engineer  and  GM  vice  president. 
He  helped  design  Oldsmobile's  Toro- 
nado,  GM's  first  front-wheel-drive  auto- 
mobile. As  director  of  engineering  at 
Chevrolet,  he  supervised  the  develop- 
ment of  the  downsized  1977  Caprice,  the 
1978  Malibu  and  the  Citation. 

"Those  were  exciting  times,"  Stempel 
says,  "but  not  as  exciting  as  Chevrolet 
today.  Now,  as  we  concern  ourselves  with 
new  production  methods  and  relation- 
ships with  our  people,  we're  making  his- 
torv" 


works  as  a  project  engineer  at  Pratt  &  Whitney 
Aircraft,  East  Hartford,  CT. 

Douglas  Crowell  is  a  project  leader  for  Em- 
hart  Corp.,  Machinery  Division,  Beverly,  MA. 

Carl  Hellstrom  is  manager  of  the  transpor- 
tation planning  program  for  the  Central  Mas- 
sachusetts Regional  Planning  Commission.  He 
is  located  in  Worcester. 

James  Loomis  continues  as  general  super- 
intendent for  Stone  &  Webster  in  Denver,  CO. 

Gerald  Nimberg  works  as  a  business  con- 
sultant for  Computer  Assistance  Corp. ,  Cherry 
Hill,  NJ. 

Chester  Patch,  III,  still  with  Bechtel  Power 
Corp. ,  is  now  a  technical  manager  for  the  com- 
pany in  Bay  City,  TX. 

Previously  with  Armco  Steel,  Richard  Pi- 
asecki  is  currently  the  self-employed  president 
of  Piasecki  Steel  Construction  Co.,  Stuyvesant, 
NY. 

Donald  Ruef  is  supervisor  of  transmission  and 
distribution  for  Sohio  Alaska  Petroleum  Co., 
Anchorage.  AK.  He  lives  in  Palmer. 


1967 


Reunion     September  24-26,  1982 

Jose  Alon.so  is  a  lecturer  m  computer  science 
at  Swmburnc  Institute  of  Technology  in  Haw- 
thorn, Australia 

Dr.  Curti.s  Carlson  has  been  appointed  head 


of  the  Image  Quality  and  Human  Perception 
Research  Group  at  RCA's  David  Sarnoff  Re- 
search Center  in  Princeton,  NJ. 

Paul  Cherubini,  newly  elected  to  the  board 
of  trustees  of  the  Clinton  (MA)  Hospital  As- 
sociation, was  recently  named  president  of  the 
Standard  Sign  Company,  Clinton. 

Dr.  M.  H.  Dwarakanath  is  now  a  principal 
engineer  at  Boeing  Co.,  Seattle,  WA. 

Mukundray  Patel  serves  as  principal  engi- 
neer for  the  fossil  power  system  at  Combustion 
Engineering  C-E  Power  System,  Windsor,  CT. 

Steven  Schumer  works  as  a  technical  services 
manager  at  Raychem  Corp.,  Menio  Park,  CA. 

Duncan  Vandenberg  is  employed  as  building 
superintendent  at  Dow  Corning  Corp.  in  Mid- 
land, MI. 


1968 


MARRIKD:  John  C.  Barkus,  Jr.,  to  Patricia 
A.  Ouaranta  in  Worcester  on  January  2.1,  1982. 
The  bride,  a  secretary  at  the  University  of  Mas- 
sachusetts Medical  Center,  graduated  from 
Worcester  State.  John  is  a  research  assistant  at 
Astra  Pharmaceutical  Products,  Worcester. 

BORN:  to  Mary  Anne  and  Walter  Lynick 
their  first  child,  Michael,  on  Easter  Sunday 
morning.  Lynick  is  employed  as  a  senior  hy- 
draulic engineer  in  the  dam  safety  section  at 
New  York  State  Environmental  Conservatit)n, 
Albany. 


34        WPI  JOURNAL 


Michael  Annon  serves  as  an  electrical  systems 
manager  at  Proto-Power  Management  Corp., 
Groton,  CT. 

Formerly  with  United  Nuclear,  George  Ba- 
zinet  is  currently  a  senior  systems  planner  with 
Combustion  Engineering,  Inc.,  Stamford,  CT. 

Wayne  Blanchard  holds  the  post  of  control- 
ler at  Johnson  &  Johnson  in  Chicago. 

John  Burns  serves  as  manager  of  San  Diego 
(CA)  Gas  &  Electric. 

George  Davagian,  Jr.,  holds  the  position  of 
vice  president  and  chief  engineer  at  Sutton 
Corporation,  Acton,  MA. 

John  Foley  serves  as  project  manager  for 
Morgan  Construction  Co.  in  Worcester. 

Robert  Glamuzina  is  a  project  engineer  on 
a  4-megawatt  wind  turbine  at  Hamilton  Stan- 
dard, a  division  of  United  Technologies,  Wind- 
sor Locks,  CT. 

Formerly  with  Daniels  Investment  Services, 
Steven  Haistedt  is  now  a  managing  general 
partner  in  Centennial  Management  Co.,  Den- 
ver, CO. 

William  Krikorian  is  a  principal  civil  engi- 
neer for  the  Commonwealth  of  Massachusetts, 
Division  of  Capital  Planning  and  Operations, 
Boston. 

Dr.  Michael  Latina  continues  as  an  associate 
professor  at  the  Community  College  of  Rhode 
Island  in  Warwick. 

Currently,  Stephen  Pytka,  who  has  an  MBA 
from  Dartmouth,  is  product  manager  at  Wang 
Laboratories,  Inc.,  Lowell,  MA. 

Ronald  Rehkamp  is  now  assistant  actuary 
within  the  group  actuarial  organization  at  State 
Mutual.  He  has  a  master's  degree  in  business 
management  from  the  University  of  Arkansas. 

Marshall  Taylor,  vice  president  and  treas- 
urer of  Ryder  Systems,  Inc. ,  was  recently  elected 
vice  president  of  financial  planning  and  will 
also  continue  as  treasurer  of  the  firm.  Before 
joining  the  Miami-based  company  in  1974,  he 
held  management  and  financial  posts  with  Al- 
lis-Chalmers  and  Mobil. 


1969 


BORN:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Charles  Kalauskas  their 
first  child,  Rebecca,  on  January  28,  1982. 

Craig  Barrows  is  a  physics  teacher  at  The 
Head-Royce  School  in  Oakland,  CA. 

John  Czajkowski  holds  the  post  of  manager 
of  advanced  planning  at  Consumer  Value  Stores 
(CVS),  a  division  of  Melville  Corp.  in  Woon- 
socket,  RI. 

Charles  Forand  is  manager  of  New  England 
Telephone,  Boston.  He  resides  in  Southboro, 
MA. 

James  Heinrich  is  employed  as  district  sales 
manager  at  Industrial  Equipment  Co.,  Cal- 
gary, Alberta,  Canada. 

Anthony  Leketa  is  an  area  engineer  for  the 
Northeastern  Area  Office,  NY  District  of  the 
Corps  of  Engineers. 

Charles  Robinson,  Jr.,  serves  as  manager  of 
field  application  services  for  The  Foxboro 
Company,  Foxboro,  MA. 


cember  26,  1981.  Son  Matthew  has  just  turned 
four.  Lenny  has  completed  his  PhD  in  visual 
sciences  at  Tufts  University.  Currently,  he  is 
vice  president  for  technical  operations  at  Briox 
Technologies,  Worcester. 

David  Andre  is  employed  as  an  actuary  by 
the  federal  Social  Security  Administration  in 
Woodlawn,  MD. 

Recently,  David  Brown  joined  AVCO  Sys- 
tems Division,  Wilmington,  MA,  where  he  is 
manager  of  mechanical  manufacturing  engi- 
neering. 

U.S.  Representative  David  Emery  of  Rock- 
land, ME,  officially  announced  in  January  that 
he  would  run  for  the  U.S.  Senate  this  year. 

Formerly  with  the  Rochester,  NH,  Country 
Club,  Jack  Gale  is  currently  the  golf  pro  at 
Tatnuck  Country  Club,  Worcester. 

Stephen  Johnson  is  now  the  program  man- 
ager for  fossil  fuel  utilization  at  Science  Ap- 
plications, Inc.,  Alliance,  OH. 

Alan  Nizamoff,  still  with  Exxon,  is  now  a 
staff  engineer  in  Florham  Park,  NJ. 

Lloyd  Palter  works  for  Boston  Edison  in 
Boston.  He  resides  in  Sharon. 

Marc  Schweig  is  employed  as  department  chief 
at  Western  Electric,  Morristown,  NJ. 

Carl  Swanson  serves  as  engineering  manager 
at  Fenwal  Incorporated  in  Ashland,  MA. 

Still  with  Rinker  Portland  Cement,  Michael 
Vardeman  is  currently  a  general  management 
engineer  for  the  Miami-based  firm. 


1971 


1970 


BORN:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Leonard  Polizzotto 

twin  daughters,  Elizabeth  and  Kathryn,  on  De- 


BORN:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  David  Buelow  a  daugh- 
ter, MeHssa,  on  December  1,  1981.  Buelow  is 
a  hydraulic  engineer  for  the  Ohio  River  Divi- 
sion of  the  Army  Corps  of  Engineers,  Cincin- 
nati. ...  To  Judy  and  Ed  Lowe  their  second 
child,  Craig  Barrett,  on  January  19,  1982. 
Daughter  Beth  is  now  three.  ...  To  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Anthony  Monteiro  a  second  son,  Adam 
Joseph,  last  June.  Their  older  son,  Matthew, 
is  five.  Tony  is  in  the  MBA  program  at  WPI. 
...  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Albert  Stromquist,  Jr., 
their  first  child,  Brian  Derrick,  on  March  26, 
1982  in  Paris,  France.  Stromquist,  a  geologist 
and  engineer,  manages  far  eastern  explorations 
for  French  International  Oil. 

Robert  Anderson  is  a  senior  engineer  at  Vel- 
sicol  Chemical,  Beaumont,  TX. 

Michael  Armenia  holds  the  post  of  manager 
of  contracts  at  Analysis  &  Technology,  Inc., 
North  Stonington,  CT. 

Barry  Belanger  continues  as  a  systems  design 
engineer  for  GE  Medical  Systems.  He  is  lo- 
cated in  Milwaukee. 

Donald  Johnson  is  serving  on  Gov.  Hugh 
Gallen's  Management  Review  Project  in  New 
Hampshire.  The  project's  goal  is  to  increase 
the  efficiency  and  cost-effectiveness  of  state 
government.  Johnson  holds  the  post  of  indus- 
trial engineer-manager  with  Davidson  Rubber 
Co.  in  Dover,  NH. 

Douglas  Kullman  serves  as  district  traffic  en- 
gineer for  the  State  of  Ohio  Transportation 
Department.  He  is  located  in  Newark,  OH. 

Currently,  John  Lind  is  the  Tennessee  di- 
vision supply  supervisor  for  General  Tele- 
phone Co.  S.E.,  Inc.,  Cookeville,  TN.  The 
company  is  a  division  of  GTE  Corporation. 

Still  with  MTS  Systems  Corp.,  John  Moore, 
in,  is  currently  an  application  engineer-inter- 


national. He  is  headquartered  in  Minneapolis. 

Herbert  Nock  is  sales  manager  for  GE's  me- 
dium steam  turbine  department  in  Lynn,  MA. 

Recently,  Donald  Peterson  was  named  con- 
troller of  Northern  Telecom  Limited  in  To- 
ronto. 

Paul  Smith,  president  and  chairman  of  the 
board  of  PRS  Energy  Industries,  Inc.,  New 
York  City,  is  listed  in  the  1982  edition  of  Who's 
Who  in  Engineering. 

Joseph  Spezeski  works  at  Hughes  Aircraft  in 
Tucson,  AZ. 

David  Winer  holds  the  post  of  reliability 
manager  at  Orion  Research  in  Cambridge,  MA. 

A.  E.  "Tony"  Yankauskas  was  recently  ap- 
pointed director  of  finance  and  business  plan- 
ning for  International  Operations  Develop- 
ment at  Continental  Can  International 
Corporation,  Stamford,  CT. 


1972 


Reunion     September  24-26,  1982 

BORN:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Raymond  W.  Coleman 

their  third  child  and  first  daughter,  Meredith 
Ann,  on  March?,  1981.  Brothers  Jeff  and  Greg 
are  seven  and  three,  respectively.  ...  To  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Mark  Fritz  their  first  child.  Heidi,  on 
September  28,  1981.  ...  To  Renee  and  James 
Hall,  Jr.,  a  second  daughter,  Ashley  Brooke, 
on  January  8,  1982.  Jim  continues  with  Norton 
Co.  in  Gainesville,  GA.  ...  to  Jeff  and  Mary 
BoUino  Petry,  '74,  their  fourth  child,  Lisa  Anne, 
on  December  9,  1981.  Jeff  continues  as  district 
sales  engineer  for  Torrington  Bearings  in  De- 
troit, where  he  is  also  the  coordinator  for  trans- 
missions for  all  GM  accounts. 

This  year  James  Anderson  will  receive  his 
PhD  from  the  University  of  Connecticut.  He 
holds  the  post  of  securities  analyst  at  Advest, 
Inc.,  Hartford,  CT. 

Gordon  Chess  is  dean  of  the  faculty  of  en- 
gineering science  at  the  University  of  Western 
Ontario  in  Canada. 

Andrew  Glazier  was  recently  chosen  the  1982 
Young  Engineer  of  the  Year  by  the  joint  com- 
mittee of  New  Hampshire  Engineering  Socie- 
ties. The  award  is  based  on  leadership  in 
professional  and  civil  activities  and  contribu- 
tions to  the  Society.  In  1978  he  joined  the  Per- 
ini  Corporation,  where  he  is  a  structural  en- 
gineer at  the  Seabrook  nuclear  power  plant. 

Albert  Heaney  is  a  professor  at  California 
State  University  in  Fresno. 

Currently,  Stephen  Joseph  holds  the  post  of 
manager  of  New  England  Telephone,  Boston. 

Howard  Levine  works  as  a  program  engineer 
in  the  MOS  Memory  Division  at  Texas  Instru- 
ments, Houston. 

Formerly  with  Rath  &  Strong,  David  Meyer 
is  now  president  of  Micro  Business  Solutions, 
Inc.,  Foster  City,  CA. 

Continuing  with  Spectra  Physics,  John 
O'Brien  currently  holds  the  post  of  operations 
manager.  He  is  headquartered  in  Eugene,  OR. 

Brian  Savilonis,  assistant  professor  of  me- 
chanical engineering  at  WPI,  has  been  named 
a  1982  Teetor  Award  recipient  by  the  Society 
of  Automotive  Engineers  for  his  technical  work 
in  the  energy  field.  Last  November  he  placed 
fourth  in  The  National  Athletic  Congress  40- 
kilometer  Racewalking  Championship  in  New 
Jersey. 


AUGUST  1982        35 


Robert  Weir  holds  the  position  of  president 
at  Robert  Weir  &  Co.,  Engineers.  Boston. 


1973 


MARRIED:  Daniel  H.  Prior,  III.  to  Jane  M. 
Andren  on  March  13,  1982  in  East  Lyme,  CT. 
Mrs.  Prior  graduated  from  St.  Mary's  College 
and  is  a  microbiologist  for  the  West  Roxbury 
Veterans  Administration  Hospital,  Boston.  He 
is  a  supervisor  of  work  methods  for  New  Eng- 
land Electric,  Westboro,  MA.  ...  J.  Diane 
Pritchard  and  Thomas  Triggs  on  July  15,  1981 . 
Mrs.  Triggs  is  a  programmer/analyst  at  Rhode 
Island  Hospital  Trust  National  Bank  in  Prov- 
idence, RI.  Her  husband  is  the  owner  and  pres- 
ident of  J&D  Fishing  Corp..  New  Bedford,  MA. 

BORN;  to  Arlene  and  Gene  Franke  their  first 
child,  Laura  Megan,  on  November  19,  1981.  .  .  . 
To  Luanne  and  Richard  Socha  their  second 
child  and  first  daughter,  Andrea  Jo,  on  Sep- 
tember 10,  1981.  Their  son.  Michael,  is  two. 

William  Ault  continues  as  supervisor  and 
product  engineer  at  Norton  Co.,  Worcester. 

Richard  Brontoli  continues  at  graduate  school 
at  the  University  of  Florida  where  he  is  study- 
ing for  his  MSCE  in  construction  management. 
After  receiving  his  degree,  he  will  be  assigned 
to  a  Corps  of  Engineers  district  office  in  the 
U.S.  He  is  a  captain  in  the  Corps. 

Thomas  Dagostino  works  as  engineering  pro- 
gram manager  at  Tektronix,  Inc.,  in  Beaver- 
ton,  OR. 

Thomas  Gargiulo  serves  as  manager  of  en- 
gineering services  at  U.S.  Waterproofing,  Inc. 
He  is  located  in  Fairfield,  CT. 

Currently  David  Hartwell  is  assistant  plant 
manager  at  L.  M.  Gill  Welding  &  Mfg.  Co., 
Manchester,  CT. 

Roger  Heinen  works  as  a  consulting  engineer 
for  Digital.  Bellevue,  WA. 

Ed  Jamro.  representing  the  New  Jersey 
Chemical  Industry  Council,  was  recently  ap- 
pointed to  the  New  Jersey  Hazards  Manage- 
ment Advisory  Committee  (HMAC).  The 
HMAC  is  a  joint  state-industry  committee  which 
addresses  problems  caused  by  chemical  spills 
and  abandoned  dumpsites. 

Frank  Kania  is  now  a  senior  construction 
cost  engineer  at  Stone  &  Webster  and  is  lo- 
cated in  Oak  Ridge,  TN. 

Harry  Kasparian  serves  as  industry  appli- 
cations marketing  manager  for  Analog  Devices 
of  Norwood.  MA. 

Joshua  Kolawole,  who  has  a  PhD  from  RPI, 
serves  as  a  staff  scientist  at  McGraw  Edison 
Co.  He  is  located  in  Franksville,  WI. 

David  Ligeiki.s  is  employed  as  a  senior  civil 
engineer  in  Bmghamton,  NY,  where  he  is  af- 
filiated with  the  New  York  State  Department 
of  Transportation. 

George  Neill  works  as  a  senior  sanitary  en- 
gineer for  the  New  Hampshire  Water  Supply 
&  Pollution  Control  Commission.  He  is  head- 
quartered in  Concord. 

Dr  Bill  Penney,  assistant  professor  of 
biomedical  engineering  at  WPI  and  a  repre- 
sentative of  the  Physicians  for  Social  Respon- 
sibility, discussed  nuclear  arms  and  power  and 
the  effect  they  could  have  on  children,  health 
and  the  future  at  a  program  presented  by  Ihe 
Blackstone  Valley  Council  for  Children  in 
Hopedalc.  MA,  in  March. 

Roger  .Savcry,  Jr.,  recently  received  his  MBA 


from  Western  New  England  College,  Spring- 
field, MA.  He  holds  the  post  of  sales  manager 
at  Datamarine  International  Inc.,  Pocasset. 

Richard  Stockdale  is  a  diagnostic  engineer  at 
Digital  in  Marlboro,  MA. 

Robert  Torbin  is  with  Foster  Miller,  Inc.,  in 
Waltham.  MA. 

Michael  Varga  is  engineering  section  admin- 
istrator of  quality  assurance  at  The  Barden 
Corp..  Danbury.  CT. 

John  Zikopoulos  is  manager  of  biomedical 
research  at  Polybac  Corporation.  Allentown, 
PA.  He  and  Athena  have  two  children  and 
reside  in  South  Whitehall. 


1974 


BORN:  to  Susan  and  Stephen  Braley  their  first 
child,  David  Alan,  on  April  16,  1982.  Braley 
is  area  supervisor  at  Hercules,  Inc.,  Jefferson 
plant,  near  Pittsburgh.  His  wife  is  completing 
her  master's  degree  in  nursing  at  the  University 
of  Pittsburgh.  ...  To  Jim  and  Lexy  Chito  Fer- 
raris, '77,  a  daughter,  Angela  Marie,  on  March 
25,  1982.  ...  To  Paula  and  John  R.  Mason, 
III,  their  second  child.  Holly  Victoria,  in  April 
of  1981.  Currently  John  is  a  member  of  the 
technical  staff  at  The  Mitre  Corporation,  where 
he  is  working  on  thermal  problems  arising  with 
electronic  packaging  for  the  U.S.  Air  Force. 

Bruce  Beaupre,  who  is  working  for  his  MBA 
at  WPI,  is  still  with  the  technical  photo  division 
of  Polaroid  Corp.,  Waltham,  MA. 

David  Clew  works  as  an  energy  utilization 
representative  for  Pacific  Gas  &  Electric,  San 
Jose,  CA. 

Now  employed  at  GPU  Nuclear  Corp.,  Ar- 
thur Dodd  is  headquartered  in  Parsippany,  NJ. 

Robert  Ferrari  serves  as  a  project  engineer 
for  Architectural  &  Engineering  Service  Corp.. 
which  is  located  in  Decatur,  IL. 

Gary  Golnik  holds  the  post  of  senior  project 
engineer  at  TRW  Defense  &  Space  Systems 
Group,  Redondo  Beach,  CA. 

Howard  Greene  serves  as  a  senior  associate 
engineer  at  IBM,  a  division  of  Federal  Systems, 
in  Manassas,  VA. 

Alan  Judd  is  a  senior  manufacturing  engi- 
neer for  the  Cleaver  Brooks  Division  of  Aqua 
Chem.  He  is  located  in  Lebanon,  PA. 

Alan  Kirby  is  advertising  development  man- 
ager of  distributed  systems  at  Digital  Equip- 
ment Corp.,  Tewksbury,  MA. 

Continuing  with  Norton  Co.  in  Worcester, 
Jeffrey  Lindberg  serves  as  a  senior  project  en- 
gineer. 

Ellen  Church  Peterson  continues  with  AT&T, 
Piscataway,  NJ.  where  she  is  a  manager  and 
systems  analyst. 

Hirant  Rakijian  holds  the  post  of  develop- 
ment engineer  at  Garrett  Airesearch  Mfg.  Co., 
Torrance,  CA. 

Alice  Ann  Sayler  has  been  granted  tenure 
and  promoted  to  associate  professor  of  chem- 
istry at  Bloomficld  College.  Bloomficid,  NJ. 

Richard  Ventre  serves  as  area  supervisor  of 
production  for  du  Pont  in  La  Porte.  TX. 


1975 


Instrument  Corp.  on  high  power  MOS- 
FETs.  .  .  .  Tim  Hendrix  to  Linda  Savage  of 
Eugene.  OR.  on  March  6,  1982.  The  bride 
graduated  from  Northwestern  College  Institute 
of  Fashion  Merchandising.  Tim  serves  as  chief 
estimator  and  project  and  division  manager  for 
Wildish  Land  Co..  Eugene.  He  has  an  MSCE 
from  Stanford  University.  .  .  .  John  E.  Kelly 
to  Anne  M.  Flanagan  in  Kingston.  NY,  on  De- 
cember 5,  1981.  Mrs.  Kelly  is  head  teacher  at 
the  Adolescent  Day  School  of  Community 
Treatment  Complex,  Inc.,  Worcester.  She 
graduated  from  SUNY,  Cortland,  NY,  and  has 
her  M.Ed,  degree  from  Pennsylvania  State 
University.  John  has  a  master's  degree  from 
Cornell  and  is  a  market  gardener  with  Bob 
Kelly  and  Sons,  Upton,  MA. 

BORN:  to  Betsy  Ann  and  Steven  Cocs  a  son, 
Daniel,  on  February  19,  1982.  ...  To  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Steven  Manzi  a  daughter,  Stephanie 
Joanne,  on  April  15,  1982.  Manzi  continues  as 
a  development  engineer  at  Hewlett-Packard  in 
Waltham,  MA. 

Raymond  Acciardi  is  a  research  civil  engi- 
neer for  the  U.S.  Bureau  of  Reclamation,  Den- 
ver. 

J.  Hunter  Babcock  is  employed  as  a  design 
engineer  at  Nova  Robotics,  Ltd.,  East  Hart- 
ford, CT.  He  lives  in  Cromwell. 

William  Booth  holds  the  post  of  patent  at- 
torney at  Fish  &  Richardson  in  Boston. 

Alan  Chandler  works  as  a  project  engineer 
at  HNTB  in  Kansas  City,  MO. 

Frederick  Cordelia  holds  the  post  of  senior 
structural  engineer  at  The  Badger  Co.,  Cam- 
bridge, MA. 

In  November  Mark  Drown  started  working 
as  project  engineer  in  the  plant  engineering 
department  at  The  Torrington  Company,  Tor- 
rington,  CT. 

Kenneth  Howell  works  as  an  account  rep- 
resentative for  Finance  One  and  is  headquar- 
tered in  Rockville,  CT. 

Joseph  Kwiatkowski  is  a  graduate  teaching 
assistant  in  the  mathematics  department  at  Syi- 
acuse  University.  He  is  studying  for  his  PhD 
in  mathematics. 

Laurence  Michaels  is  a  self-employed  system 
consultant  with  Michaels  Enterprises,  Plains- 
boro,  NJ. 

Karen  Arbige  O'Dea  serves  as  a  field  systems 
manager,  product  support  MIS,  at  Digital 
Equiprrient  Corp.,  Maynard,  MA.  She  and  her 
husband  reside  in  Wilmington. 

Christine  Powers  holds  the  post  of  produc- 
tion supervisor  at  Baxter  Travenol  Lab.,  Inc., 
Round  Lake,  IL. 

David  Shopis  has  been  appointed  manager 
of  project  operations  for  the  FIP  Corp.,  Far- 
mington,  CT.  With  the  firm  since  1979,  he  has 
an  MS  in  building  science  from  RPI. 

Donald  Taddia  works  as  a  tenant  engineer 
for  the  Dravo  Tower,  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  He  is 
employed  by  Turner  Construction  Company. 


1976 


MARRIED:  Robert  Fried  and  Meryl  Altabet 
on  June  14,  1981    Me  now  works  for  Cieneral 


MARRIED:  Edward  H.  Floyd  to  Cher  Nelson 
in  Charlestown,  NH,  on  March  14,  1982.  Mrs 
Floyd  holds  a  BA  from  Lake  Forest  College 
and  an  MA  from  Western  Michigan  Univer- 
sity. She  is  a  college  instructor  and  counselor. 
He  serves  as  a  project  manager  at  Dufresne- 
Henry,  North  Springfield,  VT.  .  .  .  Peter  B. 


36        WPI  JOURNAL 


Hallock  and  Donna  White  in  Worcester  on  Oc- 
tober 10,  1981.  The  bride  is  employed  at  Dig- 
ital Equipment  Corporation.  Peter  has  been  at 
Interactive  Systems  since  it  was  founded  nearly 
five  years  ago.  .  .  .  Ray  Houle  and  Pat  Barber 
on  January  2,  1982.  Ray,  who  is  a  manufac- 
turing engineer  at  Trifari,  is  also  studying  foF 
his  MBA  at  Bryant  College.  .  .  .  Raymond  J. 
Robey  and  Debra  J.  Sorlin  in  Chelmsford,  MA, 
on  March  20,  1982.  Mrs.  Robey,  a  graduate  of 
Bates  College,  is  an  analytical  chemist  for  Air 
Products  and  Chemicals,  Allentown,  PA,  where 
Ray  is  also  employed.  .  .  .  Edward  A.  Whit- 
taker  and  Suzanne  Hetman  in  New  York  City 
on  January  30,  1982.  The  bride,  an  associate 
engineer  with  ADAP  Co. ,  New  York,  received 
her  BS  from  the  City  University  of  New  York. 
The  groom  will  receive  his  PhD  in  physics  this 
year. 

BORN:  to  Peter  DiPietro  and  Sandra  Rear- 
don  DiPietro  a  daughter,  Amanda  Marie,  on 
February  24,  1982.  Their  older  daughter,  Ste- 
phanie, is  three.  The  family  hves  in  Nuttings 
Lake,  MA.  Pete  continues  with  Industrial  Risk 
Insurers  in  Wellesley,  where  he  is  a  special 
representative. 

Douglas  Adams  is  employed  as  a  systems  an- 
alyst at  Massachusetts  Mutual  Life  Insurance, 
Springfield,  MA.  He  lives  in  Agawam. 

Mark  Allyn  serves  as  an  applications  engi- 
neer in  Raytheon's  Submarine  Signal  Division, 
Portsmouth,  RI. 

Lloyd  Hoyden,  III,  works  for  Newport  News 
Shipbuilding-Tenneco,  in  Virginia. 

Douglas  Brown  is  a  scientist  at  International 
Nickel  Corp.  in  Suffern,  NY.  He  resides  in 
Dobbs  Ferry. 


Stephen  Cummings  is  an  R&D  engineer  at 
Lenox  Machine  Company,  Inc.  of  Lenox,  MA. 

Still  with  Airco,  Bob  D'Orazio  is  currently  a 
senior  engineer  at  the  Houston-based  firm. 

John  Germaine  continues  as  a  graduate  stu- 
dent at  MIT. 

Diane  Gumi  is  a  project  engineer  for  the  Mass. 
Port  Authority,  Logan  International  Airport, 
Boston. 

Richard  Isaacs  is  a  senior  engineer  at  Boeing 
Commercial  Airplane  Co.,  Seattle,  WA. 

William  "B.J."  Johnson  was  recently  named 
group  underwriting  consultant  in  the  Group 
Underwriting  and  Marketing  Division  of  the 
Northeastern  Home  Office  of  The  Prudential. 

Kermit  Kelley  serves  as  manager  of  manu- 
facturing and  development  engineering  for  the 
Bonded  Abrasive  Division  of  Ferro-Corp.  He 
is  located  in  Buffalo,  NY. 

Paul  Landino  holds  the  position  of  president 
at  Zycron  Systems,  Inc.,  Orange,  CT.  He  lives 
in  New  Haven. 

Thomas  Mandle  holds  the  post  of  product 
design  supervisor  for  Hewlett-Packard  in  Santa 
Clara,  CA. 

Ronald  Medrzychowski  has  been  promoted 
to  assistant  chief  nuclear  test  engineer  at  Elec- 
tric Boat-General  Dynamics  in  Groton,  CT. 

James  Roberge  is  concerned  with  corporate 
research  and  development  at  GE  in  Schenec- 
tady, NY.  He  holds  a  master's  degree  from  the 
University  of  Rhode  Island. 

Karen  Swanson  is  a  graduate  student  in  the 
department  of  geosciences  at  Penn  State  Uni- 
versity, State  College,  PA. 


1977 


Reunion    September  24-26,  1982 

MARRIED:  Roger  Lemos  and  Mary  Ashe  in 
Lowell,  MA,  on  April  17,  1982.  The  bride 
graduated  from  the  University  of  Lowell  and 
is  employed  by  Wang  Laboratories,  Wethers- 
field,  CT.  Roger  works  for  General  Dynamics, 
Electric  Boat  Division,  Groton.  .  .  .  Steven  R. 
Stafford  to  Susan  M.  McFarland  in  Fitchburg, 
MA.  The  bride  graduated  from  the  University 
of  Massachusetts,  Boston.  She  is  a  chemist  with 
E.S.A.  Laboratories,  Inc.,  Bedford.  Steve  is 
an  electrical  engineer  employed  in  Boston. 

BORN:  to  Mary  Hainsworth  Hickey  and  her 
husband,  Robert,  a  son,  John  Paul,  on  Decem- 
ber 30,  1981.  Mrs.  Hickey  is  a  development 
engineer  in  ARCO  Chemical  Company's  Re- 
search Planning  and  Evaluation  Group,  New- 
town Square,  PA.  He  is  a  project  officer  for 
the  Economic  Development  Administration. 

Mike  Abrams  has  been  promoted  to  product 
development  engineer  by  Geosource,  Hous- 
ton, TX.  He  continues  studying  for  his  MSEE 
at  the  University  of  Houston,  his  primary  area 
being  digital  signal/image  processing. 

Michael  Bloom  serves  as  a  systems  program- 
mer at  Blue  Cross  in  Boston.  He  is  studying 
for  his  private  pilot's  license. 

Alfred  Elvin  is  now  an  assistant  professor  of 
pharmacy  at  the  University  of  lUinois  College 
of  Pharmacy,  Chicago. 

Steven  Fine  was  recently  promoted  to  ap- 
plied scientist  at  the  Western  Company  of  North 
America. 

Domenico  Grasso  continues  with  the  U.S. 
Army  Environmental  Hygiene  Agency  in  At- 


lanta, GA.  He  has  been  appointed  a  member 
of  the  Standing  Committee  on  Disinfection  and 
also  serves  as  the  secretary  of  the  Task  Force 
on  Effluent  Disinfection  of  the  Water  Pollution 
Control  Federation,  Washington,  DC. 

Hilding  Holroyd  works  as  a  senior  systems 
analyst  at  Perkin-Elmer  Corp. ,  Oceanport,  NJ. 

Ronald  Jolda,  who  holds  degrees  from  UMass 
and  WPI,  is  now  a  medical  student  at  New 
England  College  of  Osteopathic  Medicine, 
Biddeford,  ME. 

Dennis  Legnard  holds  the  post  of  service 
manager  at  Aworthy  Bicycle  Co.,  a  subsidiary 
of  Schwinn  Bicycle  Co.,  Waltham,  MA. 

Robert  Medeiros  holds  the  post  of  district 
supervisor  at  Industrial  Risk  Insurers.  Cur- 
rently, he  is  headquartered  at  Hitchin,  Herts, 
England. 

In  May  John  Osowski  received  his  MBA  from 
Rochester  Institute  of  Technology. 

Herbert  Schiller  is  employed  as  a  process 
engineer  at  Foremost  Mfg.  Company  in  Union, 
NJ. 

Donald  Statile  now  works  for  the  Arizona 
Public  Service  Company  in  Phoenix. 

Robert  Ware  continues  as  a  graduate  student 
in  the  department  of  chemical  engineering  at 
MIT.  He  holds  an  MS  from  Cornell  University. 

Paul  Wittman  has  joined  Fairchild  Republic 
Company,  Farmingdale,  NY. 


1978 


MARRIED:  Paul  R.  Cody  and  Lisa  A.  Moore, 

'80,  in  Boston  recently.  The  bride  is  with  Stone 
Webster,  Boston.  Paul  works  for  Westing- 
house.  .  .  .  James  A.  Fisher  and  Sharon  Ann 
Ganges  in  Vernon,  CT,  on  February  20,  1982. 
The  bride  attended  Manchester  Community 
College  and  is  employed  by  Hamilton  Test  Sys- 
tems, Tucson,  AZ.  Jim  also  works  for  Ham- 
ilton Test  Systems.  .  .  .  Ernest  Poulias  to  Sharon 
Anne  Scully  in  Wolcott,  CT,  on  January  30, 
1982.  Mrs.  Poulias  has  a  JD  from  Oklahoma 
City  University  School  of  Law.  Ernest  is  em- 
ployed by  Combustion  Engineering  of  East 
Windsor,  CT. 

BORN:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Stephen  Kuczarski 
their  second  child,  Michael,  on  November  13, 
1981.  ...  To  Leonard  and  Elizabeth  Papan- 
drea  Lariviere,  '76,  their  second  daughter,  Re- 
becca Leigh,  on  February  12, 1982.  Their  older 
daughter,  Christina,  is  three.  Len  serves  as  a 
planning  engineer  (structural  design  of  micro- 
wave radio  towers)  for  Western  Electric  in  North 
Andover,  MA. 

Michael  Ahern  serves  as  an  associate  engi- 
neer at  Northeast  Utilities,  Hartford,  CT. 

Ian  Cannon  holds  the  post  of  lead  engineer 
for  advanced  solar  receivers  at  the  Rockwell 
Rocketdyne  Division  in  Canoga  Park,  CA. 

Robert  Cook  is  now  a  development  engineer 
at  Tandem  Computers,  Inc.  in  Sunnyvale,  CA. 

Edward  Freniere  is  a  senior  development  en- 
gineer at  Honeywell,  Inc.  He  is  headquartered 
in  Lexington,  MA. 

Kathryn  Lyga  Heselbarth  works  as  a  project 
engineer  at  CE-KSB  Pump  Co.,  a  subsidiary 
of  Combustion  Engineering  in  Newington,  NH. 

Austin  Kalb  is  a  member  of  the  technical 
staff  at  Rockwell  International,  Autonetics  Di- 
vision, Advanced  Optics  Group  in  Anaheim, 
CA. 

Kenneth  Kummins  serves  as  a  senior  engi- 


AUGUST  1982 


37 


neer  at  E.D.S.  Nuclear,  a  subsidiary  of  Impell 
Corp..  San  Francisco. 

Ethan  Luce  is  employed  as  a  design  analysis 
engineer  at  Sikorsky  Aircraft,  Stratford,  CT. 

Brian  McLane  works  as  a  design  engineer  at 
Lexidata  Corporation  in  Billerica.  MA. 

Jennifer  Pollard  is  an  assistant  civil  engineer 
for  the  New  York  State  Dept.  of  Transporta- 
tion. 

Stephen  Superson  is  a  design  engineer  for 
Teledyne  Engineering  Services,  Waltham,  MA. 

Gary  Sylvestre  serves  as  a  project  manager 
at  Barclays  American  Business  Credit,  Inc., 
East  Hartford,  CT. 

Jeffrey  Wakefield  is  product  manager  at 
Data  Terminal  Systems,  Maynard,  MA. 


1979 


MARRIED:  Gary  Doyle  and  Janet  Stark  last 
September.  Both  are  senior  associate  engi- 
neers at  IBM  in  Essex  Junction,  VT.  .  .  .  Earl 
B.  Ingham  and  Cheryl  L.  Nugent  on  January 
9,  1982  in  Granby,  MA.  The  bride,  an 
ophthalmic  technician  for  Dr.  Robert  Dono- 
hue,  graduated  from  Holyoke  Community  Col- 
lege. Earl  is  employed  by  Aetna  Life  and  Cas- 
ualty Co.,  Springfield,  MA.  .  .  .  George  R. 
Tompsett,  III,  and  Carla  Ann  Ranney  in  Broad 
Brook,  CT,  on  April  24,  1982.  Mrs.  Tompsett 
graduated  from  Windsor  Locks  High  School 
and  is  an  operations  clerk  for  Hamilton  Stan- 
dard Division  of  United  Technologies,  Wind- 
sor Locks,  CT.  George  is  a  process  and  meth- 
ods engineer  at  Hamilton  Standard. 

BORN:  to  Andrea  and  William  R.  Herman 
a  son,  Bryan  William,  on  March  31,  1981.  Her- 
man is  now  a  senior  staff  member  at  Arthur 
Andersen  Company,  Hartford,  CT. 

Jeff  Boike  continues  as  a  manufacturing 
process  engineer  at  UOP  in  McCook,  IL.  He 
and  his  wife,  Mary  Lynn,  reside  in  Hinsdale. 

Glenn  Braunstein  holds  the  post  of  devel- 
opment engineer  at  Goodyear  Tire  &  Rubber 
Co.,  Akron,  OH. 

John  Donahue  is  employed  as  an  electric 
studies  engineer  at  Niagara  Mohawk  Power 
Company,  Syracuse,  NY. 

Donna  Graves  is  systems  marketing  manager 
at  Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Merrimack,  NH. 

Bruce  Jenket,  who  was  promoted  to  It.j.g. 
last  November,  has  returned  from  deployment 
in  which  he  visited  Japan,  Guam,  Hong  Kong 
and  the  Philippines.  Currently  he  is  an  assistant 
in  the  Reactor  Controls  Division  of  the  U.S. 
Navy,  stationed  at  Pearl  Harbor. 

Donald  Larson  works  as  a  product  marketing 
specialist  at  GCA  Corporation.  He  is  located 
in  Bedford,  MA. 

Jeff  Mills  designs  oil  refineries  for  UOP,  Inc. 
He  resides  near  Chicago. 

Gary  Pearson  serves  as  New  England  sales 
representative  for  Priam  Corporation  of  Need- 
ham,  MA. 

Ronald  Roth  is  employed  as  a  product  en- 
gineer at  Honeywell  in  Lexington,  MA. 

Lt  Ja.son  Tueil  serves  as  a  numerical  pre- 
diction meteorologist  for  the  USAF  at  Offutt 
AFB,  NE 

George  Wespl  continues  as  an  associate  en- 
gineer at  Riley  Stoker  Corp..  Worcester. 

Priscilla  Young  is  studying  for  her  master's 
degree  m  environmental  engineering  at  Cor- 
nell University. 


1980 


MARRIED:  Robert  W.  Dreyfoos  and  Martine 
B.  Vray  in  Worcester  on  September  26,  1981. 
Mrs.  Dreyfoos,  a  graduate  of  Worcester  State 
College,  is  an  inspector  for  the  Palm  Beach 
(FL)  County  Health  Department.  He  is  a  de- 
sign engineer  for  Photo  Electronics  Corp.,  West 
Palm  Beach. 

Mihran  Aroian  is  a  research  technician  at 
WPI. 

Theodore  Crowley  holds  the  post  of  manager 
of  language  products  at  C.S.P.  Inc.,  Billerica, 
MA. 

David  Fox  works  as  a  software  engineer  at 
Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Merrimack,  NH. 

Currently,  Richard  Goldman  is  a  student  at 
the  University  of  Connecticut  School  of  Law 
in  West  Hartford. 

Michael  Herberg  continues  with  GE  in  Sche- 
nectady. Earlier  he  had  been  assigned  to  the 
Waterford  plant. 

Arthur  Huggard,  process  engineer  at  Mon- 
santo Plastics  &  Resins,  Springfield,  MA,  re- 
cently received  the  Monsanto  Employee 
Achievement  Award. 

Stephen  Kmiotek  is  a  chemical  engineer  at 
Cabot  Corp.  He  is  located  in  Billerica,  MA. 

Kenneth  Mandile  holds  the  position  of  vice 
president  at  J.B.M.  Swiss  Screw  Co.,  Inc., 
Waltham,  MA. 

John  Roche,  still  with  Micro  Networks,  is 
now  thin-film  engineering  supervisor  at  the 
Worcester  firm. 

Doreen  Savieira  holds  the  post  of  planning 
engineer  at  Western  Electric  Co.,  North  An- 
dover,  MA. 

Jeffrey  Smits  continues  as  a  member  of  the 
technical  staff  at  Bell  Labs  in  Holmdel,  NJ. 

Mike  Stone  continues  as  associate  editor  of 
Car  &  Driver's  Buyers  Guide  and  Cars  mag- 
azine. He  is  also  vice  president  of  TMS  Com- 
puter Services  and  the  author  of  two  books: 
Mopedaller's  Handy  Manual  and  Your  Four,  a 
guide  to  four-cylinder  motorcycles.  The  Stones 
reside  in  Danbury,  CT. 

David  Sulkin  serves  as  a  design  engineer  at 
Hamilton  Standard,  Windsor  Locks,  CT. 

James  Torrey,  Jr.,  serves  as  a  maintainabil- 
ity engineer  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Marl- 
boro, MA. 

Marianne  Wessling  continues  as  a  doctoral 
candidate  in  the  department  of  biophysics  and 
theoretical  biology  at  the  University  of  Chi- 
cago. 

Lisa  Wylie  is  a  staff  member  at  Western 
Electric  Co.,  North  Andover,  MA. 


1981 


MARRIED:  Richard  F.  Condon,  Jr.,  and  Linda 

J.  Michaud  in  Townsend,  MA,  on  April  24,  1982. 
Rich  is  a  photographic  engineer  at  Kodak,  Roch- 
ester, NY.  .  .  .  David  R.  Lamborghini  to  Helen 
Aadland  in  Fairhaven,  MA,  on  January  9,  1982. 
Mrs.  Lamborghini  graduated  from  Fairhaven  High 
School.  David  is  with  Procter  &  Gamble,  Ouincy. 
.  .  .  Steven  M.  McDonald  and  Pamela  J.  L<iftus 
on  January  16,  1982  in  Worcester.  The  bride  is 
a  student  at  Becker  Junior  College.  Steve  is  with 
Data  Cicncral  in  Westboro.  .  .  .  Joseph  P.  Nor- 
man, IIL  and  Susan  A.  Bish  in  .Springfield,  MA, 
on  December  27,  1981.  The  bride  has  an  AS 


degree  in  medical  assisting  from  Becker  Junior 
College.  Joe  is  a  structural  engineer  at  McDer- 
mott.  Inc.,  New  Orleans,  LA.  .  .  .  Scott  A.  Sar- 
gis  and  Karen  L.  Richardson  in  Leominster,  MA, 
on  February  5,  1982.  Mrs.  Sargis  graduated  from 
Becker.  Scott  is  a  mechanical  engineer  with 
Chevron  Chemical  Corp.  in  New  Orleans. 

Anthony  Cabral  is  a  student  at  Carnegie- 
Mellon  University,  Pittsburgh,  PA. 

Cindy  Canlstro  works  as  a  project  engineer 
at  GE  Plastics  in  Pittsfield,  MA. 

James  Connor  is  a  sales  engineer  for  Ad- 
vanced Micro  Devices  in  Sunnyvale,  CA. 

Dan  Doherty,  Jr.,  works  as  a  senior  technical 
marketing  specialist  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp. , 
Marlboro,  MA. 

Ethan  Foster  holds  the  post  of  programmer/ 
analyst  at  the  Laboratory  of  Computer  Sci- 
ence, Massachusetts  General  Hospital.  Bos- 
ton. 

Currently,  James  Geib  is  a  design  engineer 
at  Winchester  Electronics.  He  is  located  in 
Watertown,  CT. 

Robert  Hess  has  joined  the  Methods/Facili- 
ties Branch  in  the  Production  Department,  De- 
partment of  the  Navy,  Norfolk  Naval  Shipyard, 
Portsmouth,  VA. 

Peter  Hinckley  has  been  employed  as  a  prod- 
uct engineer  at  The  Torrington  Company,  Tor- 
rington,  CT. 

Keith  Mazzarese  works  as  a  field  engineer 
for  Stone  &  Webster  in  Waterford,  CT. 

William  Miller  holds  the  post  of  sales  engi- 
neer at  Westinghouse  Electric  in  Framingham, 
MA. 

David  Oriol  is  now  an  associate  at  Manufac- 
turer's Business  Systems,  Inc.,  Worcester. 

Frank  Polito  is  part  of  the  technical  staff  as- 
signed to  the  digital  lines  department  at  Bell 
Laboratories,  North  Andover,  MA. 

Timothy  Shea  works  as  a  scheduling  engineer 
for  Crawford  &  Russell,  Inc.,  of  Stamford,  CT. 

Jeffrey  Smith  is  a  planning  and  systems  an- 
alyst-manager at  Dresser  Atlas  in  Houston,  TX. 

Peter  Tiziani  is  a  design  engineer  for  Com- 
bustion Engineering  in  Windsor,  CT. 

David  Valardi  serves  as  a  field  engineer  at 
Dresser  Atlas  in  Rayne,  LA. 

Robert  Wright  holds  the  post  of  assistant  en- 
gineer at  New  England  Power  Service  Com- 
pany in  Worcester. 


School  of 

Industrial  Management 

Clifford  Pontbriand,  '58,  continues  as  manager 
of  frame  operations  at  Pennsylvania  Optical 
Co.,  Reading,  PA.  .  .  .  William  Barlow,  '65, 
has  been  elected  executive  vice  president  at 
Wyman-Gordon  in  Worcester.  He  joined  the 
company  in  1943  and  has  worked  in  engineer- 
ing, manufacturing  and  senior  management 
jobs.  .  .  .  Leo  St.  Denis,  '65,  has  been  pro- 
moted to  manager  of  quality  control  at  An- 
derson Operations-Bay  State  Abrasives  Divi- 
sion, Worcester.  He  has  an  associate's  degree 
in  mechanical  engineering  from  Worcester 
Junior  College.  .  .  .  Ernest  Anger,  Jr.,  '78,  has 
been  appointed  manager  of  system  develop- 
ment at  Bay  State  Abrasives  Division,  Dresser 
Industries,  Westboro,  MA.  He  graduated  from 
Wentworth  Institute  and  joined  Bay  State  in 
1958  as  an  engineering  technician. 


38        WPI  JOURNAL 


Natural  Science 
Program 

In  January  Worcester  State  College  physics 
professor  Robert  Kelley,  '60,  courtesy  of  the 
U.S.  Navy,  joined  36  college  instructors  from 
all  over  the  country  at  Cape  Canaveral  to  get 
a  firsthand  look  at  the  "new  nuclear  Navy." 


One  of  the  highlights  of  the  visit  was  an  op- 
portunity to  witness  a  simulated  missile  launch 
from  a  nuclear-powered  submarine.  .  .  .  Ralph 
Southwick,  '66,  teaches  science  at  Jefferson 
(MA)  Middle  School.  .  .  .  Philip  Wilson,  '78, 
continues  teaching  at  Lynnfield  High  School, 
Lynnfield,  MA.  .  .  .  William  Johnson,  Jr., '81, 
is  a  teacher  at  Rockport  High  School,  Rock- 
port,  MA. 


COMPLETED  CAREERS 


David  E.  Carpenter,  '11,  of  Agawam,  MA,  a 
long-time  employee  of  Westinghouse,  died  on 
April  1,  1982  at  the  age  of  93. 

Except  for  four  years  with  Buckeye  Prod- 
ucts, Mr.  Carpenter  was  with  Westinghouse 
Electric  Corp.  from  1911  until  his  retirement. 
He  earned  the  company's  highest  honor,  the 
Silver  "W"  Order  of  Merit,  and  held  a  patent 
on  a  winding  machine  to  automate  the  winding 
of  motor  stators  and  rotors.  In  1955  he  retired 
as  a  consulting  manufacturing  engineer. 

A.  Hugh  Reid,  '11,  of  Worcester,  class  vice 
president,  passed  away  recently. 

He  was  born  on  July  7,  1889  in  Worcester. 
Graduated  from  WPI  as  a  mechanical  engi- 
neer, he  was  retired  from  CF&I  Steel  Corp. 
and  belonged  to  the  Tech  Old  Timers  and  Sigma 
Xi. 

Alfred  R.  Kinney,  '12,  of  Blacksburg,  VA,  a 
long-time  employee  of  the  U.S.  Forest  Service, 
died  February  3,  1982.  He  was  92. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  received  a  BSCE 
from  WPI.  During  his  career  with  the  U.S. 
Forest  Service,  he  served  as  examiner  of  sur- 
veys in  West  Virginia,  Virginia  and  Pennsyl- 
vania and  as  chief  land  examiner  in  the  Unaka 
and  Pisgah  National  Forests  situated  in  Vir- 
ginia, Tennessee  and  North  Carolina. 

Roland  H.  Dufault,  '14,  of  Wellesley  Hills,  MA, 
president  of  the  Class  of  1914,  died  on  January 
31,  1982. 

"Mike"  graduated  with  his  BS  in  chemistry 
from  WPI,  then  worked  for  three  years  at  J. 
Russel  Marble  &  Co.,  Worcester.  During  World 
War  I  he  was  a  major  in  the  U.S.  Army.  From 
1919  until  1953  when  he  retired  as  branch  man- 
ager in  New  York  City,  he  was  with  du  Pont. 

He  had  been  a  member  of  the  New  York 
Board  of  Trade,  the  Chemists  Club  of  New 
York,  Tau  Beta  Pi  and  Sigma  Xi.  A  native  of 
Spencer,  MA,  he  was  89.  He  was  a  former  WPI 
Alumni  Council  representative  from  Philadel- 
phia and  a  member  of  the  Tech  Old  Timers. 

William  J.  Becker,  Jr.,  '15,  of  Kansas  City, 
MO,  passed  away  recently.  He  was  89. 

During  his  career,  he  was  employed  by  But- 
terworth  Judson,  Midwest  Refining  Co.,  Gen- 
eral Engineering  and  Maintenance  Corp.  and 
Trojan  Engineering  Corp.  From  1932  until  he 
retired  in  1957,  he  was  with  Long  Island  Light- 
ing Co.,  where  he  rose  to  superintendent. 

Mr.  Becker,  a  Mason,  was  also  a  past  pres- 
ident of  his  local  Rotary  Club.  For  15  years  he 
was  active  with  the  BSA,  advancing  to  district 
director.  He  belonged  to  Theta  Chi  and  was  a 
World  War  I  Army  veteran. 


Simon  Collier,  '16,  a  retired  executive  from 
Johns-Manville  Corporation  and  resident  of  Los 
Angeles,  passed  away  in  December. 

Following  his  graduation  as  a  chemist  from 
WPI,  he  joined  the  Boston  Belting  Company. 
Later  employers  were  the  National  Bureau  of 
Standards,  Washington,  DC,  Johns-Manville, 
from  which  he  retired  as  director  of  quality 
control  in  1959,  and  UCLA,  where  he  was  an 
associate  professor-lecturer.  A  nationally  known 
authority  in  the  field  of  industrial  quality  con- 
trol, he  specialized  in  quahty  control  consulting 
in  asbestos  fiber  and  products.  Papers  on  his 
specialty  were  published  in  various  profes- 
sional magazines. 

Mr.  Collier  was  born  on  June  1, 1894  in  Salem, 
MA. 

Edwin  W.  Bemis,  '19,  of  Brick  Town,  NJ,  died 
recently. 

After  graduating  as  an  electrical  engineer, 
he  did  part-time  graduate  work  at  WPI.  From 
1920  to  1962  he  was  on  the  headquarters  staff 
at  American  Telephone  &  Telegraph  Co.  He 
joined  ITT  in  1962  and  retired  in  1968. 

Mr.  Bemis  was  born  July  19,  1897  in  Hol- 
yoke,  MA.  He  was  a  senior  member  of  IEEE 
and  belonged  to  Tau  Beta  Pi  and  Sigma  Xi. 
He  served  as  secretary  of  the  Class  of  1919.  He 
was  a  former  secretary  of  the  New  York  Chap- 
ter of  the  WPI  Alunrini  Association. 

Roy  H.  Carpenter,  '19,  of  Wooster,  OH,  died 
on  July  4,  1981. 

He  was  born  on  September  11,  1897  in  War- 
ren, MA,  and  graduated  with  a  BS  in  chem- 
istry. In  1929  he  received  his  MA  from  Colum- 
bia University. 

After  teaching  in  several  high  schools  in 
Maryland,  Massachusetts  and  Connecticut,  he 
taught  at  Ossining  (NY)  High  School  from  1929 
to  1945.  From  1945  to- 1964,  when  he  retired, 
he  was  principal  at  Roosevelt  School  in  Ossin- 
ing. Mr.  Carpenter  belonged  to  the  Masons 
and  to  the  Ossining  Board  of  Education. 

Dana  D.  Goodwin,  '19,  of  Fitchburg,  MA,  the 
retired  president  of  W.  C.  Goodwin,  Inc.,  died 
April  17,  1982. 

A  Fitchburg  native,  he  was  born  on  October 
5,  1897  and  later  studied  electrical  engineering 
at  WPI.  During  his  career,  he  was  affiliated 
with  the  Rock  Island  (IL)  Arsenal  and  Simonds 
Mfg.  Co.  For  many  years  he  was  the  self-em- 
ployed president  of  W.  C.  Goodwin,  Inc.,  a 
retail  shoe  store  in  Fitchburg. 

Mr.  Goodwin  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappa 
and  the  Masons.  He  was  a  former  vice  presi- 
dent of  the  Worcester  County  Alumni  Club  of 
the  WPI  Alumni  Association. 


Arthur  W.  Bassett,  '20,  of  Lititz,  PA,  passed 
away  on  January  29,  1982. 

In  1962  he  retired  as  chief  of  power  engi- 
neering at  Armstrong  World  Industries,  where 
he  had  been  employed  since  1929.  Previously, 
he  was  with  Pennsylvania  Power  and  Light  Co. 
and  New  Jersey  Zinc  Co. 

He  was  born  on  January  4,  1897  in  Heath, 
MA,  and  received  a  BSME  from  WPI.  He  be- 
longed to  the  Masons,  the  Shrine,  the  National 
Association  of  Professional  Engineers  and  Sigma 
Phi  Epsilon.  Formerly  he  served  as  president 
of  the  local  chapter  of  the  American  Business 
Club. 

David  W.  Dimmock,  '22,  died  Christmas  Day 
at  his  home  in  Hatchville,  MA,  following  a  long 
illness.  He  was  80. 

Before  retiring  in  1959,  he  taught  mathe- 
matics in  the  Falmouth  school  system  for  15 
years.  For  40  years  he  operated  a  farm  in 
Hatchville.  He  was  born  on  February  21,  1901 
in  Pocasset,  MA. 

Austin  J.  Ball,  '25,  died  March  9, 1982  in  Hack- 
ettstown,  NJ,  at  the  age  of  78. 

A  native  of  Chnton,  MA,  he  was  born  on 
May  28,  1903.  In  1925  he  graduated  as  an  elec- 
trical engineer  from  WPI.  For  many  years  he 
was  employed  by  Consolidated  Edison  of  New 
York  City.  He  retired  in  1975. 

John  J.  McAuliffe,  '25,  of  Walnut  Creek,  CA, 
passed  away  recently. 

A  native  of  Massachusetts,  he  was  born  on 
January  31,  1903.  He  graduated  from  WPI  as 
an  electrical  engineer.  For  a  number  of  years 
he  was  with  General  Electric  in  Schenectady, 
NY,  and  Westinghouse  in  Sunnyvale,  CA.  At 
his  retirement  he  was  an  operations  analyst  at 
Stanford  Research  Institute  in  Menlo  Park.  He 
belonged  to  ATO  and  Skull. 

Theodore  D.  Schoonmaker,  '26,  of  Northboro, 
MA,  a  retired  sales  manager  for  Massachusetts 
Electric  Co.,  died  on  February  16,  1982  in 
Marlboro  Hospital.  He  was  79. 

Following  his  graduation  as  an  electrical  en- 
gineer, he  joined  Maiden  Electric  Co.  From 
1940  to  1944  he  was  an  appraisal  engineer  for 
the  North  Central  District  of  the  New  England 
Electric  System.  Later  he  was  associated  with 
the  power  sales  department  and  then  became 
commercial  sales  manager.  He  retired  from 
Massachusetts  Electric  in  1967. 

Mr.  Schoonmaker  was  a  member  of  the  Ma- 
sons, Trinity  Church  (former  deacon)  and  the 
Tech  Old  Timers.  He  had  served  on  the  Mu- 
nicipal Code  and  Bylaw  Committee  of  North- 
boro. He  was  the  father  of  Paul  Schoonmaker, 
'56,  and  was  bom  on  February  18,  1902  in  Hyde 
Park,  MA. 

Albert  A.  Baron,  '30,  a  retired  manager  for 
U.S.  Envelope  Co.,  died  on  March  16,  1982  at 
his  home  in  Alhambra,  CA. 

He  joined  the  Kellogg  Division  of  U.S.  En- 
velope in  1929  and  was  made  plant  manager  in 
Springfield,  MA,  when  the  plant  had  over  1000 
employees.  He  also  was  plant  manager  in  At- 
lanta, GA,  and  Worcester  and  had  been  pro- 
duction control  manager  for  the  firm  in  Los 
Angeles,  as  well  as  western  region  sales  rep- 
resentative. 

Mr.  Baron,  a  member  of  AEPi,  was  born 
March  10,  1907  in  Bristol,  RI.  He  received  his 


AUGUST  1982        39 


BSME  from  WPI.  He  belonged  to  the  Masons 
and  the  Scottish  Rites  Bodies  and  was  a  former 
president  of  the  Connecticut  Valley  Chapter  of 
the  WPI  Alumni  Association. 

F.  Gardner  Davis,  '30,  died  following  a  lengthy 
illness  in  San  Jose,  CA,  on  December  15,  1981. 
He  was  75. 

During  his  long  career  with  General  Electric, 
he  served  the  company  in  Schenectady,  NY, 
Chicago,  IL,  and  in  San  Jose,  CA,  where  he 
was  a  sales  representative.  He  also  worked  for 
a  local  hospital  as  an  X-ray  electrician.  He  was 
a  member  of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa. 

Mr.  Davis  was  born  in  Greenfield,  MA.  He 
graduated  from  WPI  with  a  BSEE. 

Thomas  F.  Flynn,  '30,  a  former  engineer  with 
American  Telephone  &  Telegraph  Co.,  died 
March  4,  1982  in  Holden  (MA)  District  Hos- 
pital. He  was  75. 

Mr.  Flynn  retired  in  1970  after  serving 
AT&T's  eastern  and  northeastern  regions  for 
40  years.  From  1956  to  1970  he  was  a  staff 
supervisor  and  senior  engineer  in  Wayne,  PA. 

For  many  years  Mr.  Flynn  served  on  the  WPI 
Alumni  Council  and  was  associated  with  the 
Alumni  Fund,  the  former  Techni-Forum  pro- 
gram and  the  Committee  on  Students.  He  was 
a  past  president  of  the  Philadelphia  Chapter  of 
the  WPI  Alumni  Association. 

Leonard  G.  Dunn,  '31,  former  sales  manager 
for  Bedard-Gerard,  Ltd.,  Montreal,  Canada, 
died  on  July  30,  1981. 

A  native  of  Granby,  Quebec,  Canada,  he 
was  born  on  January  24,  1909.  Following  his 
graduation  with  a  BSEE  from  WPI,  he  joined 
Canadian  Westinghouse.  Later  he  was  with  Ca- 
nadian General  Electric,  Union  Electric  Sup- 
ply and  Century  Electric,  which  he  served  as 
president.  He  held  the  post  of  sales  manager 
at  Bedard-Gerard  and  was  a  member  of  PKT 
and  the  Corporation  of  Professional  Engi- 
neers. 

Paul  H.  Fittz,  '31,  a  retired  plant  engineer  for 
Sears  Roebuck  Co.  and  a  resident  of  New  Salem, 
MA,  died  on  January  25,  1982  at  the  age  of 
73. 

He  was  employed  by  Sears  for  28  years  in 
Boston  and  Philadelphia.  In  1965  he  retired  as 
plant  engineer  at  the  Philadelphia  mail  order 
plant.  Previously  he  was  with  Natick  Box  and 
Board  and  Warren  Machine  Co. 

On  active  duty  with  the  Navy  in  World  War 
II,  he  served  during  the  invasion  of  Guadal- 
canal and  in  1945  was  stationed  at  Pearl  Har- 
bor. He  returned  to  reserve  duty  as  a  captain 
in  1946.  He  was  a  past  president  of  the  Reserve 
Officers  Association  of  Massachusetts. 

For  ten  years  he  was  vice  president  of  the 
Orange  (MA)  Savings  Bank,  and  had  been 
president  of  the  Kiwanis  Club,  former  chair- 
man of  the  New  Salem  Planning  Board  and  a 
United  Way  volunteer  He  and  his  wife  taught 
round  dancing,  with  Mr  Fittz  advancing  to 
president  of  the  Western  New  England  Round 
Dance  Teachers  Association. 

A.  Francis  Townsend,  '31,  a  retired  vice  pres- 
ident for  Hcald  Machme  Co.,  Worcester,  died 
January  27,  1982  in  Cape  Cod  Hospital,  Hyan- 
nis.  MA    He  was  72. 

With  Hcald  for  many  years,  he  had  served 
the  firm  as  head  of  the  grinding  machine  di- 


vision, as  chief  company  engineer  and  as  a 
member  of  the  board  of  directors.  He  was  re- 
tired from  Persons-Majestic  Mfg.  Co. 

Graduating  from  WPI  as  a  mechanical  en- 
gineer, he  belonged  to  Phi  Gamma  Delta,  Tau 
Beta  Pi,  Sigma  Xi,  Skull,  PTS  and  the  Poly 
Club.  From  1931  to  1935  he  was  an  instructor 
in  mechanical  engineering  and  business  at  WPI. 
He  served  on  his  50th  Reunion  Gift  Commit- 
tee, was  a  former  member  of  the  WPI  Alumni 
Council  and  belonged  to  the  President's  Ad- 
visory Council.  The  vice  president  of  the  Class 
of  1931,  he  had  also  been  president  of  the 
Alumni  Association  from  1958  to  1960. 

Robert  T.  Goffin,  '33,  a  retired  projects  engi- 
neer for  Perkin-Elmer  Corp.,  Norwalk,  CT, 
died  on  February  3,  1982,  at  the  age  of  71. 

He  belonged  to  SAE,  the  Knights  of  Colum- 
bus, Kiwanis,  the  Society  of  Automotive  En- 
gineers and  the  American  Society  of  Tool  En- 
gineers. 

During  his  career  he  was  employed  by  the 
Marine  Biological  Laboratory  in  Woods  Hole, 
at  American  Optical  Company,  Buffalo,  NY, 
and  at  Sperry  Gyroscope,  Great  Neck,  NY.  In 
1976  he  retired  from  Perkin-Elmer  following 
18  years  of  service. 

Tadeus  J.  Medowski,  '34,  died  in  Framingham, 
MA,  on  February  13,  1982,  at  age  70. 

During  World  War  II  he  joined  a  naval  con- 
struction battalion.  He  served  overseas  and  was 
later  stationed  at  the  Martha's  Vineyard 
N.A.A.F.  before  being  transferred  to  other 
bases. 

James  K.  Healy,  '35,  of  Newburyport,  MA, 
passed  away  recently. 

He  was  born  on  April  22,  1912  in  Brookline, 
MA.  For  many  years  he  was  with  Liberty  Mu- 
tual, which  he  served  as  fleet  engineer  for  the 
New  England  division.  After  his  retirement, 
he  became  president  of  Newburyport  Maritime 
Society,  Inc.,  and  the  Custom  House  Maritime 
Museum. 

Mr.  Healy  belonged  to  Phi  Gamma  Delta, 
the  American  Society  of  Safety  Engineers  and 
the  Massachusetts  Society  of  Professional  En- 
gineers. He  had  served  as  a  director  of  the 
YMCA  and  as  a  It.  col.  in  the  U.S.  Army  Re- 
serve. In  World  War  II  he  was  with  the  U.S. 
Army  Transportation  Corps  and  received  sev- 
eral service  ribbons.  Besides  WPI,  he  attended 
MIT  and  Columbia  University. 

J.  James  Tasillo,  '35,  an  engineer  for  Rudel 
Machinery  Co.,  Newton  Lower  Falls,  MA,  died 
on  January  24,  1982.  He  was  68  years  old. 

Prior  to  joining  Rudel,  which  he  served  as  a 
sales  office  manager,  he  had  been  with  Pratt 
&  Whitney,  New  England  Machine  &  Tool  Co., 
Hartford  Special  Machinery  &  Tool  Co.  and 
Taylor  &  Fenn  Co. 

He  belonged  to  ASME,  ASTE  and  Sigma 
Alpha  Epsilon.  He  was  a  past  president  of  the 
Hartford  (CT)  Chapter  of  the  WPI  Alumni  As- 
sociation, as  well  as  a  member  of  the  Simsbury 
Industrial  Development  Commission. 

Mr.  Tasillo  was  born  on  September  20,  1913 
in  Hartford  He  was  the  father  of  J.  James 
Tasillo,  Jr.,  '64 

Harold  N.  Pierson,  '36,  a  long-time  insurance 
executive,  died  March  10,  1982  at  his  home  in 
Avon,  CT. 


He  graduated  from  WPI  as  a  civil  engineer. 
In  1963  he  joined  Travelers  Insurance  Co., 
Hartford,  from  which  he  retired  as  director  of 
the  property-casualty  division  in  1977.  Earlier 
he  had  been  an  executive  assistant  with  Factory 
Insurance  Association  and  assistant  vice  pres- 
ident of  the  former  Springfield  Fire  &  Marine 
Insurance  Co.  He  had  also  served  as  assistant 
secretary  of  the  Phoenix  of  Hartford  Insurance 
Companies. 

Mr.  Pierson  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappa. 
Active  with  the  Episcopal  Church,  he  served 
as  a  vestryman  and  as  treasurer  of  the  local 
church  building  fund. 

Frank  H.  Jenkins,  '38,  died  suddenly  at  his 
home  in  Garden  City,  KS,  on  February  27, 
1982.  He  was  66. 

At  the  time  of  his  death,  he  was  on  the  staff 
of  United  Engineers  &  Constructors,  Inc. ,  gen- 
eral contractor  for  a  280-megawatt  power  plant 
in  process  of  construction  near  Holcomb,  KS, 
for  Sunflower  Electric  Cooperative.  A  regis- 
tered professional  engineer,  his  business  career 
included  assignments  with  Buffalo  Forge  Com- 
pany, New  York  State,  and  Phillips,  Getschow 
Co.  of  Chicago.  Azco  Engineering,  Inc.,  Ap- 
pleton,  WI,  which  he  helped  to  found,  grew  to 
become  a  major  factor  in  construction  activity 
in  its  area  and  is  now  one  of  the  50  largest 
mechanical  contracting  firms  in  the  country. 

George  F.  Boynton,  III,  '40,  a  long-time  em- 
ployee of  Aetna  Life  &  Casualty  Co.,  died  in 
March  in  New  Haven,  CT.  He  was  64  years 
old. 

At  the  time  of  his  death,  Mr.  Boynton  was 
a  supervising  engineer  at  Aetna,  Hartford,  CT, 
where  he  had  worked  for  35  years.  A  Navy 
pilot  in  World  War  II,  he  served  in  the  South 
Pacific.  He  belonged  to  ATO  and  the  Masons. 

Raymond  L.  Milner,  '40,  died  in  Charleston, 
SC,  on  February  26,  1982  following  a  brief  ill- 
ness. He  was  63  years  old. 

He  was  employed  at  Grumman  Corp.,  Beth- 
page,  NY,  before  retiring  in  1980.  Previously, 
he  served  20  years  in  the  Navy  Air  Corps,  re- 
tiring with  the  rank  of  commander. 

A  native  of  Rochdale,  MA,  he  was  active 
with  the  Episcopal  Church. 

Sylvan  A.  Genthner,  '41,  a  retired  tool  and 
diemaker  from  Ludlow,  MA,  died  February 
23, 1982  at  the  age  of  63  following  a  long  illness. 

"Sam,"  who  was  very  active  with  the  Shrine 
and  the  Eastern  Star,  was  known  as  "Buttercup 
the  Clown"  in  the  Springfield  Shrine's  clown 
unit.  He  belonged  to  the  Rainbow  Girls'  ad- 
visory committee  and  he  was  a  former  Boy 
Scout  and  4-H  Club  leader.  He  was  affiliated 
with  several  Masonic  lodges  and  with  the  Scot- 
tish Rites  Bodies  and  the  Congregational 
Church. 

Born  in  Warren,  MA,  he  was  a  retired  tool 
and  diemaker  for  National  Blank  Book  Co., 
Holyokc.  Previously  he  had  been  with  West- 
inghouse, Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  and  War- 
ren Steam  Pump. 

Frank  E.  Schenk,  '46,  a  retired  engineer  from 
The  lorrington  Co.,  Torrington,  CT,  passed 
away  recently. 

During  his  career,  he  was  with  J.  Sklar  Mfg. 
Co.,  Arma  Corp.,  Hendey  Machine  Co.  and 
Holtzer-Cabot.  In   1956  he  joined  The  Tor- 


40        WPI  JOURNAL 


rington  Co.,  which  he  served  as  chiet  project 
and  methods  engineer. 

A  native  of  Brooklyn,  NY,  he  was  born  on 
March  3,  1919.  He  was  a  member  of  the  ASME 
and  the  ASM,  as  well  as  a  past  president  of  his 
local  Lions  Club.  He  was  active  with  the  Elks 
and  the  Boy  Scouts.  In  World  War  II  he  was 
an  officer  with  the  U.S.  Navy. 

Neil  H.  Gebhardt,  '48,  died  last  year  in  Japan 
while  on  assignment  for  his  company.  Aero 
Service  Corp.  of  Litton  Industries. 

He  was  born  on  July  4,  1927,  in  Erie,  PA. 
His  employers  included  M&BM  Mutual  Insur- 
ance Co.  and  Gebhardt  Coal  Co.,  which  he 
served  as  a  branch  manager,  as  well  as  Aero 
Service  Corp. 

Besides  being  active  with  the  Big  Brothers 
Association,  he  belonged  to  AIIE  and  the 
American  Society  of  Photogrammetry.  He 
graduated  from  Lehigh  University. 

Robert  J.  Campbell,  '50,  died  in  Louisville, 
KY,  on  February  28,  1982  following  a  long 
illness.  He  was  54  years  old. 

Born  in  Medford,  MA,  he  received  his  BSME 
from  WPI.  During  his  career  he  was  with  La- 
pointe  Machine  Tool  and  Economic  Machinery 
of  Worcester  and  Sperry  Gyroscope  Co. ,  Great 
Neck,  Long  Island,  NY.  He  had  served  as  vice 
president  and  general  manager  of  Machinery 
Service,  Inc.,  Louisville.  He  belonged  to  the 
ASME  and  Phi  Sigma  Kappa. 

H.  Stuart  Dodge,  '51,  La  Canada,  CA,  passed 
away  on  October  10,  1981. 

During  his  career  he  was  associated  with 
Phiico,  Bell  Telephone  Co.,  Burroughs  Corp., 
Analog  Technology  Corp.,  General  Electric  and 
the  Jet  Propulsion  Laboratory  in  Pasadena.  He 
received  his  BSEE  from  WPI  and  his  MSEE 
from  the  University  of  Pennsylvania,  subse- 
quently being  named  an  adjunct  professor  in 
the  Electrical  Engineering  Department  of 
Drexel  University  in  Philadelphia. 

Mr.  Dodge  was  born  on  June  24,  1925  in 


New  York  City.  He  was  active  with  the  Boy 
Scouts. 

Joseph  E.  Thomas,  '51,  of  Norwalk,  CT,  died 
recently. 

He  was  born  on  May  28,  1927  in  Worcester 
and  received  his  BSEE  from  WPI.  Following 
graduation  he  joined  Phiico  Corp.,  where  he 
was  employed  until  1966.  Later  he  became  a 
director  of  engineering  resources  for  GTE  Syl- 
vania,  Stamford,  CT. 

A  member  of  Lambda  Chi  Alpha  and  Eta 
Kappa  Nu,  Mr.  Thomas  also  belonged  to  Sigma 
Xi. 

Stuart  R.  Hathaway,  '52,  a  production  man- 
ager for  American  Cyanamid  and  a  resident  of 
Lincroft,  NJ,  died  recently. 

After  graduating  from  WPI,  he  joined  Olin 
Mathieson.  Later  he  was  with  Wasco  Chemical 
Co.,  acquired  by  American  Cyanamid. 

A  former  head  agent  for  his  class,  he  also 
belonged  to  SPE  and  the  AIChE.  He  had 
worked  locally  for  the  United  Fund,  was  a  di- 
rector of  the  Sanford  Savings  and  Loan,  was  a 
town  meeting  member  and  a  member  of  the 
warrant  committee. 

Mr.  Hathaway,  who  was  born  on  April  9, 
1929  in  Springfield,  MA,  was  an  active  member 
of  the  men's  club  at  his  church, 

Paul  A.  Wagenknecht,  '54,  of  Gilbertsville,  KY, 
died  of  a  heart  attack  on  New  Year's  Day. 

A  native  of  Adams,  MA,  he  was  born  on 
September  19,  1932.  Following  graduation  he 
joined  A. P.  Wagenknecht  Co.,  Thompson- 
ville,  CT.  Later  he  was  employed  at  Rice  Bar- 
ton Corp.,  Worcester,  as  senior  product  en- 
gineer. In  1972  he  was  named  engineering 
superintendent  at  Westvaco  Corporation's  fine 
papers  mill  at  Wickliffe,  KY.  At  the  time  of 
his  death  he  was  manager  of  corporate  engi- 
neering at  Inland  Container  Corp.,  Indianap- 
olis, IN. 

Mr.  Wagenknecht  belonged  to  Sigma  Phi 
Epsilon,  the  ASME,  the  Masons,  the  Shrine 


and  had  been  a  member  of  the  board  of  direc- 
tors of  his  local  Chamber  of  Commerce. 

Dr.  William  D,  Johnson,  SIM'55,  of  Madison, 
WI,  passed  away  on  January  16.  1982. 

He  received  his  bachelor's  degree  from  the 
University  of  Minnesota  in  1939  and  his  MS 
and  PhD  from  Lehigh  University.  Later  he 
graduated  from  the  School  of  Industrial  Man- 
agement at  WPI. 

The  owner  of  Wm.  Johnson  Leather  Co., 
Madison,  he  had  previously  worked  for  Dexter 
Leather  Co.,  Bjorksten  Lab.,  Graton  &  Knight, 
Howes  Leather  Co.,  the  U.S.  Dept.  of  Agri- 
culture and  the  Government  Printing  Office  in 
Washington,  DC.  He  belonged  to  the  Ameri- 
can Chemical  Society,  the  American  Leather 
Chemists  Association  and  the  Fellowship  of 
Christian  Athletes  in  Wisconsin. 

Dr.  Johnson  served  as  a  chemical  consultant 
for  Middlesboro  Tanning  Co.  and  for  the  Ken- 
tucky State  Board. 

Henry  W.  Davis,  SIM'64,  died  at  his  home  in 
West  Boylston,  MA,  on  March  9,  1982.  He 
was  69. 

A  34-year  employee  of  Norton  Co. ,  "Hank" 
retired  in  1974  as  superintendent  of  the  abra- 
sives division.  For  27  years  he  served  as  com- 
missioner and  treasurer  of  the  West  Boylston 
Water  District.  He  belonged  to  the  Norton  25- 
Year  Club,  the  Norco  Club  and  was  an  officer 
of  the  Norton  credit  union.  A  member  of  Our 
Lady  of  Good  Counsel  parish,  he  also  was  af- 
filiated with  the  Worcester  County  Horticul- 
tural Society,  the  American  Legion,  West 
Boylston  Civic  Club  and  the  Lions  Club. 

Edward  S.  Hughes,  SIM'69,  a  long-time  em- 
ployee of  Heald  Machine,  died  at  the  home  of 
his  sister  in  Taunton,  MA,  on  January  23,  1982. 
He  was  68  years  old. 

In  1978  he  retired  from  Heald  Machine  Co., 
Cincinnati-Milacron,  Worcester,  after  37  years. 
He  had  been  general  shop  superintendent  since 
1968.  Previously  he  was  associated  with  assem- 
bly and  testing,  parts  manufacturing  and  sales 
and  service. 

Born  in  Bridgeport,  CT,  he  belonged  to  the 
Episcopal  Church  and  the  Masons. 

Geoffrey  R.  P.  Gerhard,  '73,  of  Farmington, 

NM,  died  recently. 

Born  on  March  23,  1949  in  New  York  City, 
he  graduated  with  a  BSEE  from  WPI.  He  was 
president  of  West  Wind  Co.  in  Farmington. 

Roger  S.  Teagle,  '73,  died  on  January  4,  1982 
at  St.  Joseph  Hospital,  Stamford,  CT. 

A  Stamford  native,  he  was  born  on  April  15, 
1951.  He  received  his  MSCE  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  Michigan  and  his  MBA  from  Boston 
College.  He  was  employed  by  Optimum  Re- 
sources Utilization  Group,  New  York  City. 

Rosemary  J.  Wojtowicz,  '80,  died  in  Allen- 
town,  PA.  on  March  3,  1982  following  a  two- 
car  accident. 

She  was  born  on  October  4,  1958  in  Palmer, 
MA.  After  graduating  from  WPI,  she  earned 
her  master's  degree  at  MIT.  In  February  she 
began  a  new  job  as  a  chemical  engineer  at  Air 
Products  &  Chemical  Co.  in  Allentown. 

Miss  Wojtowicz  belonged  to  the  AIChE, 
SWE,  Tau  Beta  Pi  and  the  Chemical  Honor 
Society. 


WPI 

Homecoming  Weekend  1982 

September 
24-26 


Schedule  of  Events 
Friday  Evening 

Concert 

Samrday 

General  Registration 
Alumni  Crew  Race 
Fraternity  &  Dormitory  Displays 
Soccer:  WPI  vs  Coast  Guard 
Fund  Volunteer's  Party 
Reunion  Class  Brunches 

(1%7,  1972, 1977) 
Skull  Reception 
Barbeque  Luncheon 
Women's  Field  Hockey: 

WPI  vs  Framington  State 
Football: 

WPI  vs  Coast  Guard 
Frank  Sanclla  Road  Race 
Poly  Club  Reception 
Reunion  Reception 
Rope  Pull 
Happy  H(Hirs 
Octoberfest  Dinner 
Nightclub  Entertainment 
Fraternity  Dinners  and  Parties 


Don't  miss  it  for  the  world! 


^J^s^S^miL^^t^SSaMBi 


n^^ 


:^^m< 


"^^^^^'^^^ 


L       4 


'^•j^*..ijig>- 


%  lai 


yy*"m''rm»tm,i*^m-.m^7T^ 


^  THE  PLAN 

After  ten  years 
Is  it  working? 
What  of  the  future? 

C^  ^ 

Also  in  this  issue: 
If  Unraveling  the 
ll  Mysteries  of  Mars 


>l^» 


1 

IN 


^,^,«^'"'' 


. liiigiiiiir, n iiiiiiiiii iiiMOiiiii—  ;-'  a:-  .^"hm"  '^ 


lEPrrPRiALr 

"This  day  closes  the  first  decade  in 
the  history  of  the  Free  Institution.  It 
has  been  a  period  of  discovery  and 
settlement,  crowded  with  the  per- 
plexities and  anxieties  inseparable 
from  new  enterprises." 

—Charles  O.  Thompson,  1878 

By  coincidence,  it  was  precisely  a 
hundred  years  later  that  we  marked  a 
decade  of  life  under  the  influence  of  the 
WPI  Plan,  an  educational  enterprise  of 
unprecedented  scope  and  boldness. 

Looking  back  at  the  history  of  the 
Plan,  one  can  conclude  that  in  1968,  a 
unique  combination  of  events,  personal- 
ities and  attitudes  came  together  at  a 
critical  moment.  For  individuals,  for  the 
college  and  for  the  nation,  the  era  was 
one  of  rapid  maturing.  Forces  from  all 
sides,  each  with  real  or  perceived  stakes 
in  our  decisions,  let  it  be  known  that 
the  educational  status  quo  was  no 
longer  acceptable.  Institutions  every- 
where were  feeling  the  rigors  of  change. 

The  fuse  of  the  scientific  and  techno- 
logical explosion  had  just  been  lit.  But 
those  educators  with  the  sharpest  vision 
were  convinced  that  instilling  tomor- 
row's technologists  with  deep  concern 
for  the  consequences  of  their  work  to 
the  lives  oi people — a  controlled  burn,  if 
you  will — is  the  only  prudent  way  to 
generate  the  huge  energies  embodied  in 
technology.  Thus  was  the  Plan  born. 

The  Plan  survives.  But  docs  it  pro- 
duce the  kinds  of  engineers  and  scien- 
tists who  are  prepared  to  deal  with  a 
world  of  technological  opportunities  and 
challenges  unimagined  just  ten  years 
ago?  And  can  it  sustain  WPI  in  a  time 
of  relentless  competition — for  students, 
faculty,  facilities,  and  academics? 

In  this  special  issue  of  the  Journal,  we 
take  a  hard  look  at  how  the  Plan  has 
fared  in  its  inaugural  decade.  And  we 
peek  into  the  future.  What  we  found 
mav  astound  you.  — KLM 


WPI  Journal 

WORCESTER  POLYTECHNIC  ^INSTITUTE 


VOLUME  86,  NUMBER  2 


Staff  of  The  WPI  Journal 

Editor,  Kenneth  L.  McDonnell 
Alumni  Information  Editor.  Ruth  S.  Trask 

Alumni  Publications  Committee:  Donald  E. 
Ross,  '54,  chair;  Robert  C.  Gosling,  "68;  Samuel 
W.  Mencow,  '37;  Stanley  P.  Negus,  Jr. ,  '54;  Judy 
Nitsch,  "75. 

The  WPI  Journal  (ISSN  0148-6128)  is  published 
quarterly  for  the  WPI  Alumni  Association  by 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  in  co-operation 
with  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consortium,  with 
editorial  offices  at  the  Johns  Hopkins  University. 
Baltimore,  MD  21218.  Pages  I-XVI  are  published 
for  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consortium  (Franklin 
and  Marshall  College,  Hartwick  College,  Johns 
Hopkins  University,  Rensselaer  Polytechnic 
Institute,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute)  and 
appear  in  the  respective  alumni  magazines  of 
those  institutions.  Second  class  postage  paid  at 
Worcester,  MA  and  additional  mailing  offices. 
Pages  1-16.33-^8®  1982,  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute.  Pages  I-XVI  ©  1982,  Johns  Hopkins 
University. 

Staff   of   the    Alumni    Magazine    Consortium: 

Editor.  Elise  Hancock;  Business  Manager,, 
Robert  Hewes;  Production  Coordinator,  Wendy 
Williams-Hauck;  Associate  Editor,  Mary  Ruth 
Yoe;  Designer,  Allen  Carroll;  Magazine  Fellow, 
Patrick  Rushin;  Senior  Writer,  Robert  Kanigel; 
Editorial  Assistant,  Elaine  Langlois. 

Advisory  Board  for  the  Alumni  Magazine 
Consortium:  Franklin  and  Marshall  College, 
John  Synodinos  and  Judy  Durand;  Hartwick 
College,  Philip  Benoit  and  Merrilee  Gomillion; 
Johns  Hopkins  University,  Ross  Jones  and  Elise 
Hancock;  Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute,  Lynn 
Holley  and  Robert  M.  Whitaker;  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute,  Thomas  J.  Denney  and 
Kenneth  L.  McDonnell. 

Acknowledgments:  Typesetting,  Foto  Typeset- 
ters, Inc.;  Printing,  John  D.  Lucas  Printing 
Company;  Mailing,  Circular  Advertising  Com- 
pany. 

Diverse  views  on  subjects  of  public  interest  are 
presented  in  the  magazine.  These  views  do  not 
necessarily  reflect  the  opinions  of  the  editors  or 
official  policies  of  WPI.  Address  correspondence 
to  the  Editor,  The  WPI  Journal.  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester,  MA  01609. 
Telephone  (617)  793-5609:  Postmaster:  If  unde- 
liverable  please  send  form  3579  to  the  address 
above.  Do  not  return  publication. 


CONTENTS 


OCTOBER  1982 


6  Special  Report 

The  WPI  Plan:  Is  it  Working? 

Perspectives  on  the  first  decade  of  WPI's  bold 
experiment  in  education. 
Shannon  T.  Devoe,  PhD 

I  An  Alumni  Omnibus 

A  gathering  of  thoughts  and  pictures  on  the 
educational  process. 

Departments 

News  from  the  Hill         2 

Projects:  Unraveling  the        4 
Mysteries  of  Mars 

Class  Notes        33 

Ampersand        Inside  back  cover 


Page  2 


Page  4 


^^  \ 


Page  6 


Page  I 

Cover:  Alden  Memorial  Auditorium,  photographed  by  John  F. 
Wellsman.  Back  cover:  Student  in  Gordon  Library,  photographed 
by  William  Denison. 


NEWS  FROM  THE  HILL 


Alumni  Fund  Goes 
Over  the  Top — Again 

Cliffhangers?  Nearly  everyone  associates 
them  with  double  overtime  NCAA  na- 
tional championships  or  Gothic  novels. 
But  in  the  WPI  Alumni  Office  this  year, 
the  term  also  applied  to  the  Alumni  Fund. 

On  June  15,  Gift  Recorder  Eileen  Sco- 
petski  assured  the  staff  that  we  would  meet 
the  $800,000  goal;  in  fact  we  would  prob- 
ably exceed  it  on  June  30,  the  closing  day 
for  the  1981-82  Fund  year.  Still  hanging 
in  the  balance,  however,  was  whether  we 
would  meet  the  other  major  goal  we  had 
hoped  to  reach — 40  percent  participation. 
When  the  entire  recording  process  had 
been  completed,  the  word  spread  quickly 
through  the  entire  office  that  a  record  5,343 
gifts  had  been  made  to  the  1981-82  Alumni 
Fund — eight  more  than  we  needed  to  reach 
40  percent!  (Of  course,  as  in  Gothic  nov- 
els, you  knew  there  would  have  to  be  a 
happy  ending.) 

We  quickly  phoned  Fund  Board  Chair- 
man Henry  Styskal,  Jr.  '50,  who  passed 
on  the  news  to  Fund  Board  members 
Richard  A.  Davis  '53,  Gerald  Finkle  "57, 
Richard  B.  Kennedy  '65,  Allen  H.  Le- 
vesque  '59,  John  M.  Lindegren  '39,  Philip 
H.  Puddington  '59,  and  John  M.  Tracy 
'52. 

Banner  years  are  becoming  the  norm 
for  the  Alumni  Fund.  With  over  1,125 
alumni  volunteers  leading  the  way,  how 
could  it  be  otherwise?  For  in  addition  to 
the  $807,855  in  alumni  giving,  an  addi- 
tional $237,223  in  unrestricted  funds  had 
been  received  from  the  223  corporations 
who  matched  gifts  during  the  year  from 
their  employees.  A  total  of  $1 ,045,078  in 
unrestricted  gifts  were  generated  for  the 
Fund  from  alumni — another  unprece- 
dented performance! 

When  the  final  Fund  report  was  mailed 
in  late  September,  it  included  yet  another 
major  announcement.  On  July  12,  at  the 
national  assembly  of  the  Council  for  the 
Advancement  and  Support  of  Education 
(CASE)  in  Toronto,  Sharon  C.   Davis, 


Managing  Director  for  the  Fund,  and  Ste- 
phen J.  Hebert,  Alumni  Director,  re- 
ceived on  behalf  of  the  alumni  body  an- 
other CASE/U.S.  Steel  Foundation  Award 
for  Sustained  Excellence.  The  WPI  Fund 
has  now  received  this  award  for  four  con- 
secutive years.  (Only  two  other  institu- 
tions in  North  America,  Dartmouth  Col- 
lege and  the  University  of  Michigan,  have 
been  so  honored.)  This  award  reflects  the 
ingenuity,  time,  and  diligence  of  scores  of 
volunteers  not  only  this  year,  but  for  years 
past. 

Other  highlights  for  the  Fund  year  in- 
clude: 

•  A  record  number  of  gifts  of  $1,000 
or  more — 167  alumni  were  recorded  as 
members  of  the  President's  Advisory 
Council  for  1981-82. 

•  The  reunion  classes  of  1932,  '42,  and 
'57  made  gifts  totaling  $258,535,  and  es- 
tablished individual  class  scholarships  for 
future  generations  of  WPI  students. 

•  Nearly   200   undergraduates   volun- 


teered an  evening  of  their  time  in  mid- 
April  at  the  annual  Alumni  Fund  Phon- 
othon.  They  recorded  $60,811  in  pledges 
during  this  outstanding  program;  two  so- 
rorities. Phi  Sigma  Sigma  and  Delta  Phi 
Epsilon,  raised  the  greatest  dollar 
amounts — and  both  in  the  same  evening! 

•  Among  classes  who  participated  in 
the  Class  Agent  Program  (Classes  of  1935- 
81,  but  omitting  those  classes  celebrating 
25th  and  40th  reunions),  the  Class  of  1935 
led  all  classes  in  participation  (64.8  per- 
cent), the  Class  of  1973  had  the  largest 
number  of  donors  (191),  and  the  Class  of 
1938  raised  the  greatest  dollar  amount 
($32,344).  In  the  Alumni  Office,  Head 
and  Class  Agents  are  fondly  referred  to 
as  "super  agents,"  and  it's  not  difficult  to 
understand  why! 

Acknowledging  the  significance  of  all 
these  accomplishments  is  important,  but 
one  might  ask  how  the  Fund  is  spent? 
That's  the  best  part! 

In  general,  the  Fund  supports  common 


Undergraduates  played  a  vital  role  hclpm)^  the  Alumni  Fund  reach  the  million  mark. 


I  WP!  JOURNAL 


needs  and  interests:  quality  academic  pro- 
grams that  attract  the  kind  of  students  and 
faculty  WPI  seeks.  But  more  importantly, 
the  Fund  helps  provide  the  financial  re- 
sources that  enable  the  college  to  retain 
these  fine  people.  Frequently,  part  of  the 
Fund  can  be  used  for  small  but  important 
things  for  which  other  funds  are  not  avail- 
able— support  for  student  project  oppor- 
tunities off  campus  or  for  new  intramural 
sports  activities.  The  beauty  of  unre- 
stricted funds  for  current  operations  is  that 
important  projects  can*  be  supported  dur- 
ing the  current  academic  year  according 
to  priorities  established  by  the  college. 

Of  course,  every  good  story  has  to  have 
heroes  and  heroines,  and  the  best  part  of 
the  end  of  the  Fund  year  is  sharing  news 
of  the  terrific  results  with  all  those  who 
helped  make  it  happen.  Thanks  very  much 
for  making  the  1981-82  Alumni  Fund  the 
success  it  was! 

WPI  Champions 
Catch  Henley  Fever 

They  had  to  leave  their  $100,000  trophy 
back  in  England  and  take  home  pewter 
mugs  instead,  but  it  doesn't  matter.  The 
first-ever  alumni  contingent  from  WPI — 
plus  two  student  crews — will  never  forget 
June  26,  1982,  the  day  they  won  three 
trophies  during  the  Reading  Regatta,  a 
preliminary  trial  race  held  before  the  world- 
famed  Henley  Regatta. 

Says  Dave  Floss,  70,  long-time  WPI 
crew  coach  and  coxswain,  "We  had  to 
beat  eight  teams  to  get  to  the  finals,  then 
our  Senior  'B'  team  with  cox  defeated  Eton 
Excelsior  by  a  length."  Marlow  Rowing 
Club  was  third.  WPI  'B'  team  winners 
were  Peter  Clapp,  '81,  John  Marden,  Steve 
Zimmerman  and  Carl  Hefflefinger,  '82, 
and  Ploss  (cox). 

WPI's  Senior  'C  with  cox  won  by  three 
feet  over  Henley  Rowing  Club,  after  Ox- 
ford Polytechnic  was  disqualified  for  in- 
terference. "It  was  close,"  Ploss  says. 
"When  Oxford  was  disqualified,  Henley 
took  the  lead  for  a  while.  But  WPI  was 
ahead  at  the  end,  when  it  counted."  Win- 
ning team  members  were  Paul  Doe  and 
Brandt  Bonin,  '82,  and  Paul  Quigley  and 
Joe  lantosca,  '83.  Ploss  again  served  as 
coxswain. 

Alumni  Fran  Madigan  and  George 
Wespi,  '79,  Jay  Feenan,  '80  and  James 
McGee,  '81,  placed  a  strong  second  to 
Yale  University  in  the  finals  of  the  Senior 
'A'  without  cox.  Although  the  Yale  crew 
is  ranked  No.  1  in  the  U.S.,  WPI  lost  to 
them  by  less  than  a  length. 


At  right,  alumni  rowers  warm  up  on 
Lake  Quinsigamond.  Below  are  the 
Reading  Regatta  champions:  center, 
David  Ploss.  Front  row  (left  to  right): 
James  McGee,  Paul  Quigley,  Paul  Doe, 
Fran  Madigan,  Jay  Feenan,  George 
Wespi.  Back  row:  Peter  Clapp,  Stephen 
Zimmerman,  Brandt  Bonin,  Joe  lan- 
tosca, John  Marden,  Carl  Hefflefinger. 


With  two  firsts  and  a  second  at  the 
Reading  Regatta,  WPI  captured  the  pres- 
tigious $100,000  team  championship  cup — 
"Temporarily,"  Ploss  comments  wryly.  Its 
permanent  home  is  England.  (Rules  of 
the  host  country.) 

While  participating  in  the  regattas,  the 
WPI  crew  stayed  with  English  families, 
who  opened  their  homes  to  them  on  a 
"bed  and  breakfast"  basis.  "Very  friendly 
people,"  says  Ploss.  "But  they  couldn't 
get  the  hang  of  making  American  pan- 
cakes. One  morning  some  of  us  showed 
them  how,  with  American  pancake  mix 
and  real  maple  syrup.  They  really  made 
a  hit!" 

John  and  Ginny  Giordano  FitzPatrick, 
'75,  English  residents  for  the  past  two 
years,  made  a  hit  with  the  visitors  by  host- 
ing them  to  a  bountiful  home-cooked  ban- 
quet. According  to  Ploss,  "Everybody  ate 
so  much  at  noon,  no  one  could  lift  an  oar 
for  the  rest  of  the  day." 

Bad  luck,  muscle  pulls  and  the  flu  hurt 
WPI  during  the  Henley  Regatta.  The  En- 
gineers led  the  Visitor's  Cup  competition, 
which  was  open  to  colleges  and  schools 
in  the  4-without-cox  category,  but  lost  it 
in  a  heartbreaker  just  three  strokes  from 


the  end.  Ploss  says,  "At  the  last  minute, 
a  steering  problem  developed  and  WPI 
was  disqualified." 

In  another  Henley  race,  the  Wyfold  Cup 
open  competition  for  4  without  cox,  the 
alumni  drew  Neptune,  the  champion  Irish 
national  lightweight  team,  to  row  against. 
Although  Neptune  was  ranked  seventh  in 
the  world  in  1981,  the  alumni  moved  well 
against  the  highly-ranked  crew  in  a  losing 
cause.  (Jeff  Peel,  '74,  a  former  English 
exchange  student  and  oarsman  at  WPI, 
also  rowed  in  the  Wyfold  semifinals.  He 
and  his  wife  also  put  out  the  welcome  mat 
for  the  visiting  WPI  crew.) 

WPI  entered  the  Prince  Philip-Grand 
Challenge  Cup,  also  at  Henley,  which  is 
open  to  any  amateur  4-with-cox  team  in 
the  world.  The  Engineers  made  it  to  the 
semifinals,  where  they  were  defeated  by 
the  Australian  national  team  (who  out- 
weighed them  by  more  than  30  lbs.  per 
man). 

The  Henley  defeats,  closely  following 
their  stunning  Reading  victories,  did 
nothing  to  cool  the  oarsmen's  Henley  fe- 
ver. Fran  Madigan,  '79,  vows,  "WPI 
alumni  will  compete  again  next  year.  Count 
on  it!"  Ruth  Trask 


OCTOBER  1982  3 


PROTECTS 


Unraveling  the 
Mysteries  of  Mars 

On  a  lonely  Martian  plain,  206  million 
miles  from  earth.  37  minutes  away  by  ra- 
dio transmission,  the  Viking  lander's  sam- 
pler arm  pushes  slowly  into  the  ground, 
scooping  out  a  small  trench,  dumping  the 
soil  into  a  hopper  leading  down  to  the 
package  of  biological  experiments  on  the 
lower  deck.  Before  reaching  the  hopper, 
though,  the  red  soil  dribbles  through  a 
coarse  and  then  a  fine  sieve.  Then  the 
scoop  goes  back  to  the  trench  for  another 
load  for  a  second  hopper,  which  leads  down 
to  the  gas  chromatograph-spectrometer 
that  examines  the  sample  for  organic 
chemicals. 

Is  E.T.  watching? 

This  sequence  and  others  like  it  would 
be  repeated  countless  times  more  in  the 
months  ahead,  as  the  unmanned  Viking 
lander  pursued  its  mission  some  six  years 
ago:  to  search  for  life — macro-  or  micro- 
organisms— on  the  surface  of  the  planet 
Mars. 

It  was  1976,  ten  years  since  the  National 
Aeronautics  and  Space  Administration 
(NASA)  had  first  conceived  and  begun 
preparing  for  the  astonishing  Viking  ex- 
pedition, a  project  rivaled  only  by  Apol- 
lo's manned  moon  landings  and  the  more 
recent  Voyager  fly-bys  of  Saturn.  For  Vi- 
king would  land  not  one  but  two  scientific 
stations  on  Mars,  the  first  in  late  July 
(planned  originally  for  July  4,  to  coincide 
with  the  bicentennial),  the  second  three 
months  later. 

At  last,  thought  Mars-gazers,  the  cen- 
turies-old mysteries  of  the  Red  Planet 
would  be  resolved  once  and  for  all. 

From  his  Goddard  Hall  office,  WPI 
Chemistry  Professor  Robert  B.  Plumb 
watched  the  expedition  attentively.  Al- 
ready he'd  consulted  to  NASA,  a  rela- 
tionship that  would  continue  throughout 
the  mission.  But  his  most  dramatic  role 
in  this  enticing  who-done-it  wouldn't  un- 
fold for  another  six  years.  More  on  that 
later.  But  first,  some  background. 


-♦7        r 

Professor  Robert  C.  Plumb  (left)  and  Rewat  Tantayanon. 


Viking's  package  of  experimental 
equipment  resembled  a  can  of  sardines. 
Besides  biological  and  chemical  appara- 
tus, a  host  of  meteorological,  geological, 
and  other  instruments  measured  every- 
thing from  wind  velocity  to  seismic  phe- 
nomena. But  the  biological  tests  attracted 
the  largest  following  among  scientists  and 
the  public. 

Besides  scanning  by  television  camera 
for  beasts  or  rodents  scurrying  across  the 
Marscape  (admittedly  a  low  probability), 
three  biological  experiments  took  place: 
pyrolytic  release,  gas  exchange  and  la- 
beled release  (LR).  In  the  LR  test,  soil 
samples  were  exposed  to  an  organic  nu- 
trient labeled  with  carbon  14,  a  radioac- 
tive isotope  of  carbon.  If,  during  incu- 
bation, radioactive  carbon  compounds 
were  released  from  the  reaction,  scientists 
could  trace  this  effect  to  biological  origins. 

Of  the  three  biological  experiments,  the 
LR  test  presented  the  most  striking  ef- 
fects. But  the  cause  of  the  apparently  pos- 


itive results  of  this  test  have  until  now 
remained  a  mystery. 

At  both  the  VI  and  V2  landing  sites, 
1,000  km  apart,  different  soil  samples  ex- 
posed to  C14  yielded  similar,  robust  re- 
leases of  radiation,  indicating  the  pres- 
ence of  life  in  the  soil  tested  (the  theory 
being  that  the  radiation  is  generated  by 
micro-organisms  metabolizing,  or  con- 
suming, the  radioactive  compounds  and 
releasing  carbon  dioxide,  CO;,  labeled  with 
C14).  But  when  the  same  samples  were 
given  another  dose  of  C14,  instead  of  giv- 
ing up  more  radiation,  the  level  dropped 
dramatically  and  remained  at  a  constant 
level. 

Since  this  reaction  is  inconsistent  with 
biological  effects,  scientists  were  given  a 
clue  that  some  other  mechanism — per- 
haps chemical — was  at  work. 

Meanwhile,  as  the  plot  thickened,  back 
in  Worcester  Bob  Plumb  was  postulating 
his  own  ideas  and  offering  suggestions  to 
the  puzzled  NASA  biological  team. 


4  WPI  JOURNAL 


NASA  needed  more  evidence.  What, 
they  wondered,  would  happen  if  different 
samples  were  sterilized  by  heat  prior  to 
the  injection  of  the  nutrient?  Following 
more  scooping  and  more  incubating,  tests 
indicated  that  sterilization — which  would 
kill  any  micro-organisms — did  in  fact 
eliminate  the  release  of  radioactive  gases 
from  the  soil.  Now  things  were  getting 
interesting.  It  was  beginning  to  look  as  if 
there's  life  in  them  there  hills  after  all. 

Now,  six  years  after  Viking  I's  landing 
pods  kicked  up  the  red  dust  of  Mars,  Pro- 
fessor Plumb  believes  he  and  his  students, 
most  notably  Rewat  Tantayanon,  a  Ph.D. 
candidate  from  Thailand,  have  unraveled 
the  mystery.  Their  NASA-funded  re- 
search shows  that  the  effect  found  at  Chryse 
and  Utopia,  Viking's  landing  sites,  was 
purely  chemical.  In  fact,  they  believe  they 
have  discovered  and  have  synthesized  at 
WPI  a  form  of  matter  native  only  to  Mars, 
a  substance  which  may  have  broad  appli- 
cations here  on  earth.' 

"One  problem  with  the  Viking  exper- 
iments," Plumb  said  recently,  "is  that  they 
put  the  cart  before  the  horse,  addressing 
the  biology  of  the  soil  before  they  learned 
about  its  chemistry."  Knowing  the  rate 
and  amount  of  radioactive  release,  the  ef- 
fects of  reabsorption  and  sterilization,  and 


'Properties  of  this  new  material  have  also 
been  studied  by  H.  Peter  McClain,  '80  CH, 
Rodney  Poole,  '80  CH,  James  Toomey,  '82 
MS,  and  Sermin  Oren,  a  Ph.D.  candidate. 


thereby  being  able  to  deduce  the  soil's 
acidity  and  desiccation.  Plumb  saw  the 
problem  as  trying  to  uncover  in  an  earth- 
bound  lab  the  chemical  mechanism  that 
produced  the  effects  observed  on  Mars, 
nearly  a  quarter  billion  miles  away. 

The  WPI  team  theorized  that  a  chem- 
ical agent  in  the  Martian  soil  is  respon- 
sible for  the  Viking  finds.  To  uncover  this 
compound,  they  studied  several  possibil- 
ities, including  magnesium  sulfate,  ex- 
posing it  to  simulated  Martian  environ- 
mental conditions.  The  most  striking  of 
these  conditions  is  Mars'  day-night  tem- 
perature extremes — falling  from  a  day-time 
high  of  0  degrees  C.  to  -80  degrees  C. 
at  night. 

The  results  are  startling.  When  this 
temperature  variation  is  duplicated  in  the 
lab,  the  volume  of  the  magnesium  sulfate 
jumps  by  a  factor  of  seven — roughly 
equivalent  to  the  difference  between  sleet 
and  snow. 

"This  morphological  transformation,  in 
which  crystals  are  brokendown  into  a  coral- 
like arrangement,  has  never  before  been 
observed  on  earth,"  says  Tantayanon. 
"We're  nearly  100  percent  certain  that 
magnesium  sulfate  exists  on  Mars  and  that 
simple  temperature  fluctuations  there 
produce  the  same  effects  we  observe  in 
the  lab." 

With  this  material  in  hand  and  with  a 
new-found  understanding  of  the  chemis- 
try underlying  the  LR  reaction,  Plumb  and 


Tantayanon  have  for  the  first  time  repro- 
duced Viking's  findings  here  on  earth. 
Many  other  labs  worldwide  have  tried  and 
failed.  As  a  bonus,  their  work  provides  a 
measure  of  the  acidity  and  desiccation  ca- 
pacity of  Martian  soil.  And  incidentally, 
the  gas  emissions  of  the  LR  experiment 
were  not  COj,  as  most  scientists  assumed. 

"Our  findings  strike  a  crucial  blow  to 
the  belief  that  Mars  holds  life,"  Plumb 
says.  "But  life  on  Mars  isn't  our  major 
interest.  As  chemists,  we're  interested  in 
the  chemistry  that  defines  life.  Our  real 
objective  has  been  to  find  the  chemical 
processes  that  occurred  in  the  first  'chem- 
ical' experiment  ever  carried  out  on  an- 
other planet.  Mars  is  just  another  majestic 
scientific  puzzle." 

The  new  high  surface-area  material 
Plumb  has  developed  may  have  applica- 
tions here  on  earth  in  the  chemical  in- 
dustry, for  example,  as  a  super  desiccant 
to  soak  up  water  from  organic  com- 
pounds. 

According  to  Dr.  Edward  N.  Clark, 
Associate  Dean  of  Graduate  Studies  and 
Director  of  Research,  "Professor  Plumb's 
research  is  some  of  the  most  elegant  work 
I've  ever  seen,  some  very  fine  scientific 
detective  work." 

Plumb  sees  things  on  a  more  earthy  level. 
"If  we  can  understand  the  chemical  ev- 
olution of  other  planets,  we  can  probably 
learn  more  about  the  chemistry  and  life 
of  our  own  environment." 


Coral-like  crystals  of  magnesium  sulfate  exposed  to  Martian  environmental  conditions.    Other-world  material  created  on  earth? 


OCTOBER  1982  5 


The  Plan:  Is 


By  Shannon  T.  Devoe,  Ph.D. 


What  does  a  decade  of  research  to  evahiate  the  WPI  Plan  have  to 
say?  Plenty: 

•  First,  the  Plan  is  effective  in  attracting  highly  qualified  stu- 
dents who  have  the  potential  to  become  competent  scientists  and 
engineers. 

•  Second,  WPI  does  indeed  prepare  these  students  to  become 
professionally  qualified. 

•  Third,  the  Plan  achieves  more  than  merely  training  students 
for  technical  competence.  WPI  produces  graduates  who  are 
confident  of  their  abilities,  who  can  integrate  ideas  from  a  wide 
variety  of  fields,  who  are  creative  problem  solvers,  and  who 
can  communicate  effectively.  They  appear  committed  to  social, 
cultural,  and  political  involvement  in  their  communities.  And 
in  the  early  stages  of  their  careers,  at  least,  they  see  themselves 
as  more  successful  in  and  more  satisfied  with  their  jobs  than  a 
national  comparison  group. 

The  statistics  tell  the  story.  In  separate  studies  of  applicants, 
freshmen,  seniors,  and  graduates,  all  indications  are  that  the  WPI 
Plan  is  meeting — and  often  exceeding— the  goals  of  its  framers. 

The  results  are  intriguing  and  compelling.  So  is  the  story  behind 
them.  -Ed. 


The 
Way  It 
Was 


Roger  Perry,  WPI's  Director 
of  Public  Relations,  remem- 
bers the  scene  vividly. 

"President  Harry  Storke 
leaned  back  in  his  chair,"  he 
recalls,  "and  reflected  pen- 
sively, 'I'm  afraid  I  didn't  make 
many  friends  today.'  " 

"Now  what  did  you  do?" 
Perry  asked  wryly. 

"I've  just  appointed  a  com- 
mittee of  bright  young  faculty 
to  conduct  a  study  and  tell  me 
I  what  this  college  should  be  ten 
years  from  now." 


It  was  December  12,  1968. 
This  appointment  was  the  be- 
ginning of  the  WPI  Plan. 

When  he  took  the  reins  in 
1962  as  WPI's  tenth  president, 
Storke  recognized  the  school's 
tradition  of  excellence.  He  also 
saw  a  capacity  for  even  greater 
things — a  capacity  he  believed 
it  had  yet  to  utilize  fully.  From 
the  beginning  he  had  tried  to 
nurture  that  potential  for 
greatness  through  the  estab- 
lished hierarchy.  At  the  time, 
academic  matters  were  han- 
dled by  the  various  tenured  de- 
partment heads.  The  faculty  as 
a  whole  had  little  to  say  in  ac- 
ademic affairs  except  as  it  might 
convince  the  assembled  de- 
partment heads. 

Storke  told  Perry  often  of  his 
frustrations  in  trying  to  move 
this  entrenched  body  to  long- 
range  planning — an  activity 
Storke  believed  imperative  for 
meeting  the  dynamic  needs  he 


6  WPI  JOURNAL 


It  Working? 


The  year:  1968.  On  college  campuses  across  the  nation, 
students  and  faculty  joined  to  examine  with  a  critical 
eye  the  most  cherished  ideals  of  education  and  our  very 
way  of  hfe.  Many  precepts  were  found  wanting.  Retrieved  head- 
lines of  riots  at  the  nation's  Columbias  and  Berkeleys  are  stark 
reminders  of  those  turbulent  times.  Change  was  in  the  air. 

At  WPI,  meanwhile,  change  was  indeed  on  its  way,  but  through 
constructive  means,  not  destructive  ones.  The  college  saw  the 
need  to  examine  its  educational  program  and  found  it  to  be  solid, 
but  neither  distinguished  nor  distinctive.  Faculty,  at  least,  were 
deeply  concerned  that  the  heavy  emphasis  on  coursework  and 
examinations  was  stunting  students'  curiosity  and  creativity.  There 
appeared  to  be  a  separation  between  the  activities  for  which 
students  were  rewarded  at  the  Institute  and  those  in  which  profes- 
sional engineers  and  scientists  were  engaged  and  for  which  they 
were  rewarded. 

But  the  disparity  between  training  and  practice  was  not  hmited 
to  WPI.  A  year  earlier,  an  American  Society  for  Engineering 
Education  report  had  stated,  "Regardless  of  the  academic  route, 
the  central  characteristic  of  engineering  is  the  creative  synthesis 
of  new  systems  and  components.  New  learning  experiences  in 
this  direction  are  much  needed,  and  should  provide  a  real  chal- 
lenge in  engineering  education." 

The  need  for  change  in  engineering  education  was  thus  estab- 
lished. In  addition,  there  appeared  a  need  for  a  new  kind  of 
engineer,  one  who  could  approach  a  broad  range  of  social  and 


environmental  problems,  one  who  would  be  aware  of  the  impact 
of  technological  advances  on  society  as  a  whole.  Yet  engineers 
had  traditionally  been  less  likely  than  any  other  group  of  college 
graduates  to  become  involved  in  this  broad  range  of  problem 
areas. 

Some  colleges  responded  to  this  call  for  the  "new"  technologist 
by  introducing  into  their  curricula  new  courses  in  design  and 
other  quick-fix  solutions.  At  WPI,  the  response  was  a  total  re- 
structuring of  the  undergraduate  learning  experience.  After  more 
than  a  year  of  self-study,  soul-searching,  and  discussion,  the 
faculty  and  Trustees  endorsed  the  following  statement  of  goals: 

By  means  of  coordinated  programs  tailored  to  the  needs  of 
the  individual  students,  it  is  the  fundamental  purpose  of  WPI  to 
impart  to  students  an  understanding  of  a  sector  of  science  and 
technology  and  a  mature  understanding  of  themselves  and  the 
needs  of  the  people  around  them.  WPI  students,  from  the  be- 
ginning of  their  undergraduate  education,  should  demonstrate 
that  they  can  learn  on  their  own,  that  they  can  translate  their 
learning  into  worthwhile  action,  and  that  they  are  thoroughly 
aware  of  the  interrelationships  among  basic  knowledge,  techno- 
logical advances,  and  human  need.  A  WPI  education  should 
develop  in  students  a  strong  degree  of  self-confidence,  an 
awareness  of  the  community  beyond  themselves,  and  an  intel- 
lectual restlessness  that  spurs  them  to  continued  learning. 

Less  than  a  year  after  the  endorsement  of  this  statement,  the 
WPI  Plan  emerged  as  a  means  for  implementing  these  goals. 
The  Plan  called  for  competency-based  education,  with  an  em- 
phasis on  learning  through  projects,  independent  study,  and  col- 
laboration with  both  faculty  and  other  students. 

In  addition,  the  traditional  grading  system  was  replaced  by 
one  in  which  students  could  complete  course  and  project  re- 
quirements with  distinction,  pass,  or  (if  they  do  not  pass)  with 
no  record  of  failure.  The  academic  calendar  was  changed  from 
two  fourteen-week  terms  to  four  seven-week  terms,  with  optional 
three-week  intersession  and  seven-week  summer  terms.  Courses 


saw  ahead  for  WPI.  As  a  re- 
tired Army  lieutenant  general, 
Storke  was  accustomed  to  gov- 
erning through  his  chain  of 
command.  Since  he  wasn't  get- 
ting the  action  he  wanted,  he 
had  taken  a  step  foreign  to  his 
years  of  leadership  experience; 
he  had  bypassed  his  chain  of 
command  and  asked  his  junior 
officers  to  do  the  task  he  knew 
must  be  done. 

While  his  appointment  of  a 
faculty  planning  committee  may 
have  alienated  some  of  the 
powerful  department  heads, 
who  were  not  informed  prior 
to  the  appointments,  the  move 
nevertheless  was  a  popular  one 
among  faculty.  His  unortho- 
dox move  turned  out  to  be  a 
carefully  calculated  risk. 

Throughout  the  nation,  the 
late  sixties  were  a  time  of  reas- 
sessment of  many  social  insti- 
tutions and  values.  On  cam- 
puses everywhere,  students 


'^ 


a^ 


Former  WPI  president  Harry 
Storke.  He  had  a  vision. 

were  seeking  in  their  curricula 
greater  relevance  to  the  real 
world.  The  mood  had  spread 
to  WPI  as  well.  The  times  were 
right  for  change,  and  Storke 
sensed  it.  For  several  years, 
faculty  and  students  alike  had 
been  chafing  under  the  rigid 
prescribed  curricula.  In  some 
departments,  EE  for  example, 
professors  had  begun  innova- 


tive programs  to  broaden  stu- 
dents' educational  experience. 
Faculty  had  successfully  initi- 
ated expanded  humanities 
electives.  And  women  were  first 
admitted  to  WPI  in  1968. 

In  his  charge  to  the  commit- 
tee, Storke  explained  that  they 
were  to  concentrate  on  the 
broad  objectives  of  the  college 
and  not  become  entangled  in 
the  details  of  needs  and  curri- 
cula in  individual  programs. 
Most  important,  he  empha- 
sized, was  that  they  develop 
sound  objectives — principles  on 
which  WPI's  renewed  mission 
would  be  founded. 

For  three  months  the  com- 
mittee labored.  They  carefully 
analyzed  the  existing  strengths 
and  weaknesses  of  the  college. 
In  developing  recommenda- 
tions, they  sought  the  active 
participation  of  colleagues  and 
students,  for  sweeping  change 
required  broad  support  if  real 


advances  were  to  be  made.  Fi- 
nally, a  comprehensive  edu- 
cational program  had  to  be  de- 
signed— one  to  which  the 
college  could  direct  its  ener- 
gies, one  which  could  be  artic- 
ulated to  a  generation  of  stu- 
dents demanding  relevancy,  and 
one  which  could  attract  the 
necessary  funds. 

The  committee  found  enthu- 
siastic and  sincere  support  from 
their  constituencies  in  this  work. 
They  submitted  their  first  re- 
port in  March  1969.  It  dis- 
cussed 12  possible  types  of  in- 
stitution which  WPI  could 
become.  It  also  included  a  rec- 
ommendation that  planning 
continue  and  that  faculty  and 
students  devote  time  to  dis- 
cussing the  planning  effort  to 
date. 

Then  the  committee  re- 
signed. 

"Our  resignation  was  one  of 
the  most  important  actions  we 


OCTOBER  1982  7 


could  be  taken  in  a  variety  of  ways — students  could  attend  lec- 
tures, watch  video-tapes  of  classroom  presentations,  or  meet  the 
course  requirements  through  successful  completion  of  an  Indi- 
vidually Paced  Instruction  module.  Sequences  of  courses  were 
recommended,  but  not  required.  Students  were  responsible  for 
planning  their  own  courses  of  study;  the  role  of  the  faculty  mem- 

WPI  freshmen  scored  150  points  above  the  na- 
tional  average  on  SAT  math  tests. 

bar  thus  changed  from  that  of  arbiter  to  mentor.  Virtually  no 
aspect  of  the  educational  environment  was  left  untouched. 

In  one  broad  sweep,  WPI  had  transformed  its  role  from  that 
of  the  traditional  engineering  school  to  that  of  pioneer  in  the 
realm  of  innovative,  creative  educational  investigation. 

Further,  this  dramatic  transformation  took  place,  not  in  a  mat- 
ter of  decades,  but  in  a  matter  of  years.  In  June  1972,  three 
students  graduated  under  Plan  requirements;  in  June  1973,  the 
number  was  21.  By  June  1974.  32  students  were  Plan  graduates; 
by  June  1975,  fully  50  percent  of  the  seniors  graduated  under 
the  Plan;  that  number  was  90  percent  in  June  1976.  By  1977, 
WPI  was  all  Plan,  with  no  other  options  available. 

The  Evaluation  Strategy 

When  WPI  committed  itself  to  the  Plan,  it  also  committed  itself 
to  a  long-term,  intensive  effort  to  evaluate  this  bold  educational 
framework.  The  ultimate  question,  of  course,  remains:  "Does 
the  Plan  work?" 

Obviously,  one  of  the  original  goals  of  the  Plan  was  to  graduate 
technically  competent  engineers  and  scientists.  To  measure  this 
factor,  external  measures — assessments  by  qualified  third  par- 
ties— are  required.  However,  the  goals  of  the  Plan  go  further: 


to  produce  graduates  who  are  also  more  self-confident,  more 
self-directed,  more  creative  and  resourceful  in  approaching  and 
solving  problems,  more  aware — of  themselves,  their  technolog- 
ical expertise,  other  people,  the  society  in  which  they  live — and 
more  effective  in  interacting  with  others. 

As  one  reads  through  the  Plan  literature,  certain  ideas  and 
phrases  appear  repeatedly  which  seem  to  cluster  under  three 
categories: 

1.  Personal  characteristics  (e.g.,  enthusiasm,  self-confidence, 
maturity,  self-motivation,  responsibility,  self-discipline,  crea- 
tivity) 

2.  Skills  (ability  to  learn  on  one's  own,  ability  to  integrate  ideas 
from  diverse  fields,  ability  to  communicate  effectively,  ability 
to  work  with  others  as  part  of  a  team,  ability  to  take  a  lead- 
ership role  in  working  with  others,  ability  to  analyze  problems 
across  a  wide  range  of  issues) 

3.  Values  (desire  for  life-long  learning,  desire  to  help  others, 
desire  to  be  involved  in  the  social,  cultural,  and  political  life 
of  the  community) 

Although  these  "value-added"  characteristics  are  more  diffi- 
cult to  measure,  they  are  the  features  that  distinguish  a  Plan 
education  from  any  other.  Most  of  the  studies  reviewed  here 
have  tried  to  measure  these  characteristics,  skills,  and  values 
through  self-reported  and  external  assessments. 

In  sum,  then,  the  evaluation  strategy  called  for  self-reported 
and  external  measures  of  both  technical  competence  and  per- 
sonal characteristics,  skills,  and  values  of  WPI  students  and  a 
comparison  group.  Measures  were  made  when  students  entered 
college,  when  they  graduated,  and  at  some  time  after  graduation. 
Now,  after  ten  years  of  assessment,  we  have  in  hand  the  statistical 
evidence  to  enable  us  to  answer  objectively  the  question,  "Does 
the  WPI  Plan  work?" 

Salisbury  Laboratories  have  been  renovated. 


took,"  recalls  William  R.  Gro- 
gan,  '46,  Dean  of  Undergrad- 
uate Studies,  at  that  time  an 
EE  professor.  "We  had  been 
appointed  by  the  president,  but 
we  felt  that  if  this  planning  ef- 
fort were  to  be  successful,  the 
committee  planning  the  next 
phase  had  to  be  elected  by  the 
faculty  itself."  Except  for  one 
member  who  chose  not  to  con- 
tinue, the  original  committee 
with  one  addition  was  over- 
whelmingly elected  by  the  fac- 
ulty. 

"This  represented  a  major 
turning  point  in  the  role  of  the 
faculty  in  college  governance 
at  WPI.  And  it  brought  WPI 
into  line  with  the  structure  of 
most  of  America's  leading  col- 
leges and  universities." 

The  first  Planning  Day  at- 
tracted wide  faculty  and  stu- 
dent participation,  and  served 
to  narrow  the  12  possible  sce- 
narios down  to  just  four. 


Planning  continued  with  re- 
newed vigor.  Subcommittees 
were  formed,  and,  for  the  first 
time,  students  were  invited  to 
participate  on  an  equal  footing 
with  faculty  members.  This 
marked  a  major  turning  point 
in  the  faculty-student  relation- 
ship. It  was  no  longer  "them" 
and  "us."  Now  it  was  "we." 

In  June  1969,  at  age  64,  Harry 
Storke  retired,  a  year  before 
WPI's  then  mandatory  retire- 
ment age.  He  had  accom- 
plished what  he'd  set  out  to  do, 
and  the  time  was  right  to  turn 
over  command  to  a  president 
who  could  lead  the  college 
through  the  radical  changes  that 
were  to  come. 

The  trustees  selected  Dr. 
George  Hazzard  to  succeed 
Storke.  Hazzard  often  said  that 
he  would  have  had  no  interest 
in  the  position  except  for  the 
challenges  of  implementing  the 
Plan. 


And  the  challenges  were 
many.  Hazzard  brought  to  his 
office  many  years  of  experi- 
ence as  an  educator.  He  could 
empathize  with  the  faculty  as 
they  labored  to  resolve  the  in- 
evitable conflicts  in  formulat- 
ing the  eventual  WPI  Plan.  For 
the  Plan  was  totally  a  new  con- 
cept, modeled  after  that  of  no 
other  college.  There  were  no 
leads  to  follow. 

In  December  1969,  after 
considerable  debate,  the  fac- 
ulty endorsed  a  statement  of 
goals  for  WPI.  This  important 
step  established  the  framework 
on  which  the  next  phase  of  in- 
tensive planning  was  based.  The 
following  June,  the  WPI  Plan 
was  formulated  in  essentially 
its  present  form.  It  was  ac- 
cepted by  the  faculty  and  soon 
thereafter  was  approved  by  the 
trustees.  The  trustees  stipu- 
lated that,  naturally,  such 
change    would    require    eco- 


President  Emeritus  George  W. 
Hazzard.  He  made  the  Plan  go. 

nomic  justification.  Grants  to- 
taling nearly  $3  million  were 
provided  by  the  National  Sci- 
ence Foundation  (NSF),  the 
Alfred  P.  Sloan  Foundation, 
and  several  other  charitable 
organizations  for  implementa- 
tion and  evaluation. 

Now  WPI  found  itself  com- 
mitted to  one  of  the  most 
sweeping  educational  innova- 


8  WPI  JOURNAL 


tions  this  nation  had  ever  seen. 
The  faculty  and  trustees  had 
staked  the  future  of  the  college 
on  an  educational  program 
which  had  never  before  been 
tried — anywhere . 

In  place  of  conventional  de- 
gree requirements  met  by  pass- 
ing a  prescribed  number  of 
courses,  most  of  which  were 
required,  the  WPI  Plan,  which 
began  in  1971,  has  these  re- 
quirements: 

•  A  major  project  in  the 
student's  professional  field, 
known  as  the  Major  Qualifying 
Project  (MOP) 

•  A  major  project  which  re- 
lates technology  to  the  needs 
of  society,  known  as  the  Inter- 
active Qualifying  Project  (IQP) 

•  A  Sufficiency  in  the  Hu- 
manities, similar  to  a  minor 
program 


•  A  Competency  Examina- 
tion after  the  completion  of 
three  years'  work,  normally  in 
the  form  of  a  week-long  design 
or  other  problem,  a  written  re- 
port and  an  oral  exam,  to  es- 
tablish that  the  students  are  in- 
deed prepared  to  enter  their 
chosen  professional  fields. 

Under  the  Plan,  all  courses 
are  elective  and  are  chosen  after 
consultation  with  faculty  ad- 
visors. 

The  Plan  places  great  respon- 
sibility on  the  students  for  iden- 
tifying and  achieving  their  own 
educational  goals.  Said  Grogan 
recently,  "From  the  beginning 
of  the  Plan,  we  were  concerned 
that  students  not  only  benefit 
from  classroom  teaching,  but 
learn  how  to  make  decisions — 
beginning  with  decisions  that 
affect  their  very  education." 


EVALUATION  RESULTS 


Applicants  and  Incoming  Freshmen 

One  measure  of  the  Plan's  viability  is  the  degree  to  which  WPI 
has  been  able  to  attract  prospective  students.  During  the  early 
years  of  the  Plan,  the  numbers  of  applicants  decreased  signifi- 
cantly, then  increased  just  as  significantly,  with  large  jumps  in 
1976,  1979  and  1980. 

The  school's  ability  to  attract  students  has  continued  (see  graph, 
page  10),  even  when  WPI  practiced  a  policy  of  negotiated  ad- 
missions and  accepted  virtually  any  applicant  who  met  basic  high 
school  course  requirements  and  was  willing  to  accept  "self-ad- 
mit" responsibilities.  Scholastic  Aptitude  Test  (SAT)  scores  of 
incoming  WPI  freshmen  have  declined  slightly  over  the  past 
decade,  reflecting  a  national  trend.  However,  the  average  Verbal 
SAT  scores  of  WPI  freshmen  continue  to  be  some  80  points 
higher  than  the  national  average,  while  the  average  Math  SAT 
scores  for  WPI  freshmen  continue  to  be  about  10  points  higher 
than  the  national  average. 

Median  class  rank  for  WPI  freshmen  has  increased  system- 
atically. In  1973,  50  percent  of  the  incoming  freshmen  were  in 
the  top  18  percent  of  their  high  school  graduating  class;  in  Sep- 
tember of  1982,  50  percent  of  the  incoming  freshmen  were  in 
the  top  8  percent  of  their  high  school  graduating  class. 

Obviously,  the  rosy  picture  painted  by  the  figures  on  incoming 
freshmen  is  colored  more  strongly  by  the  facts  that  they  represent 
the  tail  end  of  the  baby  boom,  and  that  engineering  has  become 
markedly  more  attractive  over  the  past  decade.  Nevertheless,  a 
comparison  of  the  numbers  of  applicants  to  WPI  and  to  the 
Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology  (MIT)  indicates  that  WPI 
is  attracting  more  than  its  share  of  this  growing  pool  of  pro- 
spective students.  Since  1977,  the  numbers  of  applicants  to  MIT 


Projects  are  the  basis  of  this 
experience.  Students  now  tend 
to  view  faculty  as  colleagues  in 
the  educational  process. 

Not  surprisingly,  a  decade 
ago,  many  alumni  were  deeply 
concerned  over  the  changes 
planned  at  their  alma  mater. 
Most  wanted  assurance  that 
these  changes  would  make  WPI 
an  even  better  college  than  the 
one  they'd  known  as  under- 
graduates. A  few  were  ada- 
mantly opposed  to  any  changes 
in  the  WPI  they'd  come  to  love. 

Today,  the  vast  majority  of 
alumni — both  Plan  and  pre- 
plan graduates — express  pride 
in  their  alma  mater,  due  in  large 
part  to  the  foresight  and  cour- 
age of  the  Plan's  architects.  In 
just  over  a  decade,  WPI  has 
witnessed  the  enactment  of  an 
educational  system  which  is  to- 
day unique  in  the  world,  a  sys- 
tem which  skeptics  warned 
would  never  work,  but  which 


is  alive  and  healthy. 

"Those  early  Plan  years  were 
often  turbulent  ones,"  Haz- 
zard  reflected  recently. 
"Change  was  argued  vigor- 
ously at  every  point — as  well  it 
should  have  been."  So  vigor- 
ous was  the  debate,  that  NSF 
advisor  David  Reisman  of 
Harvard  University  predicted 
outright  revolution  among  fac- 
ulty and  students.  "But,  if  any- 
thing," says  Grogan,  "it's 
brought  the  WPI  community 
closer  together." 

Demands  on  faculty  and  stu- 
dents— inherently  more  exact- 
ing in  a  project-based  program 
than  in  conventional  classroom 
teaching  alone — have  and  will 
continue  to  be  great.  But  in 
terms  of  enhancing  the  faculty- 
student  relationship  and  pre- 
paring students  for  profes- 
sional experiences — the  real 
mission  of  the  Plan — the  re- 
wards are  great. 


OCTOBER  1982  9 


has  increased  by  26  percent,  while  the  number  of  applicants  to 
WPI  has  increased  by  68  percent.  And  from  1981-1982.  the 
number  of  applicants  to  MIT  fell  by  2  percent,  while  the  number 
of  applicants  to  WPI  jumped  by  8  percent.  The  WPI  Plan  is 
clearly  attractive  to  students  of  high  academic  standing. 

Studies  of  Freshmen 

Given  the  distinctive  attributes  of  the  Plan,  we  can  ask  whether 
WPI  attracts  students  who  differ  in  personal  characteristics,  skills, 
values  or  competence  from  the  students  who  have  traditionally 
entered  WPI  and  similar  colleges  of  engineering  and  science. 

In  one  study.  Dr.  Karen  C.  Cohen  (1975)  asked  entering  fresh- 
men at  WPI  to  fill  out  a  standardized  questionnaire  prepared  by 
the  American  Council  on  Education  (ACE).  The  ACE  data  for 
WPI  classes  entering  in  1973  and  1974  were  then  compared  with 
the  ACE  data  for  freshmen  entering  two  other  technological 
colleges  similar  to  WPI  in  the  size  and  composition  of  their 
student  bodies. 

An  examination  of  questions  which  related  to  academic  com- 
petence indicates  that  these  two  incoming  classes  did  not  differ 
significantly  from  each  other  or  from  freshmen  at  the  two  other 
colleges  in  terms  of  SAT  scores,  high  school  class  rank,  or  av- 
erage grades  while  in  high  school. 

Questions  which  reflected  personal  characteristics,  skills,  and 
values  indicated  that  freshmen  entering  WPI  in  1973  and  1974 
did  not  differ  significantly  from  freshmen  entering  the  compar- 
ison schools,  except  that 

•  WPI  freshmen  were  significantly  more  likely  to  indicate  that 
they  planned  to  obtain  a  degree  beyond  the  master's  level. 

•  WPI  freshmen  were  significantly  more  likely  to  cite  "work- 
ing with  ideas"  as  an  important  reason  for  making  a  long-term 
career  choice,  and  significantly  less  likely  to  cite  "high  anticipated 
earnings"  as  the  basis  for  this  choice. 


28001- 

2400 

2000 

1600 

1200 
800 
400 


Freshman  Admissions 


Class  Size 


'65 


'70 


'75 


'80 


Greater  selectivity  is  the  bottom  line  for  WPI  admissions 
under  the  Plan. 

•  WPI  freshmen  were  more  likely  to  note  "the  special  edu- 
cational programs  being  offered  in  the  school"  as  the  reason  for 
choosing  WPI. 

Studies  of  Seniors 

Several  studies  of  seniors  have  been  conducted,  one  in  which 
Plan  seniors  were  compared  to  non-Plan  seniors  in  the  same  WPI 
class,  and  two  in  which  company  recruiters  were  asked  to  com- 


Projects— The  Plan's  Lifeblood 


Picture  yourself  as  a  freshman 
entering  the  WPI  Class  of  1986, 
confronting  the  284-page  Un- 
dergraduate Catalog,  the  gos- 
pel of  the  WPI  student.  Things 
start  to  get  interesting  around 
page  13.  Quote: 

There  are  four  academic 
degree  requirements,  each  of 
which  is  performance  based 
and  each  of  which  is  directly 
related  to  the  goals  of  the  col- 
lege. 

These  requirements  might 
be  considered  in  four  quad- 
rants [Already  you  realize 
you're  in  for  an  adventure), 
developed  through  two 
"knowledge"  groupings  of 
goals: 

1.  Professional  Preparation 
(a,c)  and  Liberal  Learning 
(b.d) 


Translation  of- 
Knowledge  into  Action 


Major 

Qualifying 

Project  (MOP) 


Oualifications  in 

Professiona 

Preparation 


Interactive 

Qualifying 

Project  (IQP) 


Qualifications  in 
Liberal  Learning 


2.  Translation  into  Action 
(a,b)  and  Demonstration  of 
Knowledge  (c.d)  as  illustrated 
in  the  diagram  below. 

Unquote. 

Studying  this  diagram,  you 
begin  to  realize  just  how  big  a 


Demonstration  of 
Knowledge  Acquired 

role  projects — MQPs  and 
IQPs— play  in  the  WPI  edu- 
cational experience:  They  will 
constitute  two  of  your  four  ac- 
ademic degree  requirements. 

The  next  25  pages  of  the  cat- 
alog go  on  to  discuss  nearly 


every  conceivable  element  of 
the  projects  program — from 
how  to  choose  and  begin  your 
MQP  or  IQP;  to  on-  and  off- 
campus  opportunities;  to  de- 
scriptions of  special  IQP  pro- 
grams, such  as  the  Issues  Re- 
search Collaborative  and  the 
Washington,  D.C.,  Project 
Center;  to  discussions  of  each 
of  the  six  IQP  topic  divisions, 
like  Energy,  Resources  and 
Environment,  and  Issues  in 
Economic  and  Social  Devel- 
opment; to  where  you  can  get 
more  information  on  projects. 

"As  far  as  we  know,"  says 
Frank  Lutz,  Associate  Dean  for 
Projects,  "no  other  college  has 
a  projects  program  that  rivals 
WPI's.  It's  a  lot  to  explain." 

Despite  well-conceived  and 
articulate  explanations  and  ac- 
counts of  the  projects  program 
in  the  school's  internal  and  ex- 
ternal literature,  and  though 
projects  are  an  integral  part  of 


10  WPI  JOURNAL 


pare  WPI  seniors  with  seniors  from  other  colleges  of  engineering 
and  science. 

In  terms  of  technical  competence,  results  from  these  studies 
have  been  mixed: 

•  Using  Engineer  in  Training  Examination  scores  as  a  measure 
of  technical  competence,  Dr.  Cohen  found  that  Plan  seniors, 
class  of  75,  scored  significantly  higher  than  did  non-Plan  seniors 
from  the  same  WPI  class. 

•  In  two  studies  in  which  company  recruiters  were  asked  to 
rate  WPI  seniors  relative  to  seniors  from  other  colleges  of  en- 
gineering and  technology,  recruiters  rated  WPI  students  some- 
what above  average  in  terms  of  knowledge  of  fundamentals  in 
their  major  field,  technical  ability,  and  general  engineering 
knowledge.  But,  when  asked  in  what  ways,  if  any,  WPI  seniors 
differed  from  seniors  at  other  similar  colleges  in  which  they  had 
recruited,  technical  competence,  per  se,  was  not  one  of  the  most 
frequently  mentioned  items. 

•  In  terms  of  personal  characteristics,  skills,  and  values.  Dr. 
Cohen  found  that  WPI  students  on  the  whole  rated  themselves 
as  significantly  more  flexible  and  more  broad-minded  than  did 
students  at  the  comparison  college. 

•  Company  recruiters  rated  WPI  seniors  above  average  com- 
pared with  other  seniors  in  terms  of  their  ability  to  integrate 
ideas  from  various  fields  and  to  communicate  effectively,  as  well 
as  in  terms  of  their  self-confidence  and  enthusiasm. 

•  In  fact,  of  those  able  to  make  the  comparison,  over  80 
percent  said  WPI  seniors  were  different  in  a  positive  way — in 
teamwork,  maturity,  well-roundedness,  and  the  ability  to  get 
things  done  and  adjust  to  the  world  of  work. 

This  evidence  suggests  that  WPI  seniors  do  reflect  at  least  the 
"value-added"  objectives  of  the  Plan  and  are  possibly  above 
average  in  technical  competence.  But  since  none  of  these  studies 
employed  an  explicit  control  group,  the  evidence  remains  sugges- 
tive rather  than  definitive. 


the  WPI  experience,  the  ben- 
efits of  this  element  of  the  WPI 
Plan  to  students  and  project 
sponsors  remain  perhaps  the 
most  difficult  to  measure.  And 
to  anyone  who's  neither  grad- 
uated under  the  Plan  nor  been 
on  the  sponsor  end  of  things, 
the  IQP,  at  least,  may  be  the 
most  puzzling  aspect  of  WPI's 
educational  structure. 

But  to  James  S.  Demetry, 
Chairman  of  the  Division  of 
Interdisciplinary  Affairs  (DIA), 
which  administers  the  IQP 
program  (and  an  EE  profes- 
sor), the  rationale  for  projects 
is  uncompromising.  "Any 
thinking,  observing  individual 
must  conclude  that  a  concen- 
trated, seven-week  experience 
that  encourages  expanded 
awareness  and  an  appreciation 
for  the  complexity  of  things; 
that  exposes  a  world  that's  very 
political,  and  where  decisions 
are  made  in  complicated,  often 


extra-technical  ways;  and  that 
demonstrates  first  hand  that  we 
all  have  an  obligation  to  a  com- 
munity far  bigger  than  the  mi- 
crocosm we  call  'the  com- 
pany'— this  experience  must 
surely  help  prepare  students  for 
future  professional  careers." 
Mom  and  apple  pie?  Sure,  he 
admits,  but  it  may  help  dis- 
courage a  myopic  view  of  a 
complex,  turbulent  world. 

Mechanical  Engineering 
Professor  Raymond  R.  Hag- 
glund  concurs.  A  veteran  ad- 
visor on  scores  of  projects,  he 
points  to  a  host  of  project  re- 
quirements that  mirror  profes- 
sional activities:  understanding 
the  problem,  interacting  with  a 
project  team  and  manage- 
ment, preparing  a  proposal, 
setting  a  course  for  attacking 
the  problem,  managing  time 

Professor  Raymond  Hagglund, 
ME,  veteran  project  advisor. 


Studies  of  Alumni 

Two  major  studies  of  graduates  in  the  early  stages  of  their  careers 
have  been  conducted.  The  first  of  these,  conducted  by  Dr.  Cohen 
(1978),  involved  WPI  Plan  graduates,  alumni  of  a  comparison 
college,  and  job  supervisors  of  both  groups.  Here,  both  the  grad- 
uates and  their  supervisors  rated  the  technical  competence,  per- 
sonal characteristics,  skills,  and  values  of  the  graduates. 

In  terms  of  technical  competence,  graduates  of  both  WPI  and 
the  comparison  school  rated  themselves  above  average  on  knowl- 
edge of  fundamentals,  ability  to  learn  on  their  own,  ability  to 
get  things  done,  and  performance  on  the  job.  Similarly,  the 
supervisors  said  both  groups  of  graduates  were  above  average 
on  these  factors. 

But  while  these  studies  have  not  indicated  that  the  Plan  has 
produced  graduates  who  are  more  competent  technically  than 
the  comparison  group,  neither  are  they  deficient.  The  studies 
indicate  that  WPI  has  always  produced  technically  competent 
graduates,  and  continues  to  do  so  under  the  Plan. 

Granted  that  the  Plan  is  producing  technically  competent  stu- 
dents, to  what  extent  has  it  succeeded  in  producing  graduates 
who  demonstrate  those  "softer,"  value-added  characteristics 
mentioned  earlier? 

The  first  hint  that  the  Plan  might  be  succeeding  in  these  more 
amorphous  areas  came  when  the  same  Plan  graduates,  class  of 


OCTOBER  1982  11 


1976.  were  interviewed  about  a  year  and  a  half  after  graduation. 
Compared  to  a  group  of  1976  graduates  from  a  traditional  college 
of  technology,  the  WPI  graduates  were: 

•  More  likely  to  be  involved  in  post-graduate  studies. 

•  More  likely  to  be  using  their  college  majors  on  the  job  only 
somewhat  or  not  at  all.  and  to  be  involved  in  jobs  that  were  not 
traditional  for  their  majors. 

•  Rated  by  their  supervisors  as  better  communicators. 
What's  more,  despite  their  relatively  wider  range  of  current 

positions,  correlations  of  supervisor  ratings  for  graduates"  skills 
and  the  importance  of  these  skills  for  the  jobs  held  were  signif- 
icantly higher  for  WPI  grads.  Said  one  supervisor.  "Our  WPI 
grads  may  be  just  average  on  some  things,  but  on  everything 
that's  important  to  us.  they're  above  average." 

In  summarizing  the  results  of  this  study.  Dr.  Cohen  noted  that. 
"Although  the  groups  [from  WPI  and  the  comparison  school] 
are  still  remarkably  similar  .  .  .  WPI  graduates  are  consistently 
viewed  as  having  a  slightly  different  set  of  skills  than  the  [com- 
parison school]  graduates.  ...  In  brief,  it  seems  fair  to  conclude 
that  the  WPI  Plan  has  been  demonstrably  effective  at  the  un- 
dergraduate level.  Its  graduates  are  certainly  rated  well,  are  more 
effective  communicators,  and  there  are  indications  .  .  .  that  they 
are  opting  for.  and  succeeding  in.  a  wider  variety  of  professional 
roles  than  were  'traditional'  for  their  majors." 

Perhaps  the  most  compelling  evidence  that  the  Plan  is  indeed 
producing  a  different  breed  of  engineer  comes  from  Dr.  Geoffrey 
E.  Bock's  1981  study. 

Here,  Plan  graduates  from  the  classes  of  1976,  1977,  1978,  and 
1979  responded  to  a  lengthy  questionnaire  about  their  current 
job  characteristics  and  sources  of  satisfaction,  the  extent  to  which 
their  college  education  had  prepared  them  for  the  jobs  they 
currently  held,  the  general  usefulness  of  a  college  education,  and 
their  personal  values  and  aspirations  for  the  future.  The  re- 
sponses of  WPI  Plan  engineering  majors,  then  in  the  early  stages 


and  budgets,  writing  and  pre- 
senting a  final  report  to  man- 
agement, and,  most  critically, 
he  says,  "taking  responsibility 
for  their  actions.  It's  projects 
that  make  the  pace  at  WPI 
faster  and  more  stimulating  than 
at  any  other  college  I  can  think 
of." 

"When  the  Plan  began,"  re- 
calls Lutz,  "a  recurring  fear  was 
that  we'd  never  be  able  to  at- 
tract enough  projects  from  in- 
dustry." The  program  has  al- 
ways relied  for  off-campus 
exposure  on  faculty,  student 
and  alumni  contacts  as  well  as 
word-of-mouth,  he  says.  That 
fear  soon  vanished.  Today. 
though  1,10()  projects  are  con- 
ducted annually.  Lutz  and  his 
staff  are  overwhelmed  by  pro- 
posals from  industry.  But,  being 
able  to  be  selective  is  a  mixed 
blessing,  he  contends.  "We  can 
choose  those  that  indicate  the 
best  fit  between  sponsor  needs 


and  students'  interests.  But  in 
rejecting  even  good  proposals, 
we  don't  want  to  turn  off  spon- 
sors to  future  involvement." 

Projects  are  an  established 
part  of  the  Plan,  says  Demetry, 
but  they — especially  the  IQP — 
require  constant  nuturing,  fine 
tuning.  MOPs,  he  believes, 
have  a  natural  home  in  the  var- 
ious academic  departments. 


of  their  careers,  were  compared  to  the  responses  of  a  national 
sample  of  engineering  majors  in  the  same  career  stages. 

In  some  respects.  Plan  engineers  and  the  national  sample  are 
similar:  95  percent  of  both  groups  are  employed  full  time;  ap- 
proximately 40  percent  are  currently  working  toward  a  degree 
beyond  the  bachelor's;  more  than  75  percent  are  currentlv  work- 


Under  the  guidance  of  a  computer  science  major,  fourth  graders 
are  brought  into  the  world  of  the  computer — a  tool  many  of 
them  will  be  using  before  long. 


IQPs,  on  the  other  hand,  often 
cut  across  disciplines. 

Demetry  cites  a  favorite  ex- 
ample which  helps  to  distin- 
guish between  MOP  and  lOP 
topics:   the  computerized  au- 


tomobile interlock.  This  de- 
vice, if  installed  in  your  car, 
requires  you  to  recall  a  se- 
quence of  numbers  flashed 
briefly  on  a  screen  before  you 
can  start  the  engine.  Its  ob- 
vious job  is  to  discourage  the 
intoxicated  driver  from  ever 
getting  on  the  road.  On  this 
subject,  a  typical  MOP  would 
address  some  aspect  of  the 
computer  technology  that  drives 
the  device.  But  application  of 
the  technology  raises  issues  such 
as  the  appropriateness  of  en- 
cumbering individuals'  use  of 
their  own  property,  and  the 
rights  of  the  individual  versus 
the  right  of  society  not  to  be 
endangered  by  intoxicated 
drivers.  As  with  so  many  de- 
cisions, says  Demetry,  one  must 


12  WPI  JOURNAL 


ing  as  engineers;  and  approximately  90  percent  feel  they  are  best 
trained  to  be  engineers. 
But  this  is  where  the  similarities  end. 

•  While  more  than  50  percent  of  both  groups  are  employed 
by  manufacturing  and  construction  firms,  a  significantly  higher 
percentage  of  WPI  engineers  are  working  in  such  firms,  and  a 
significantly  lower  percentage  of  WPI  graduates  are  employed 
by  federal,  state,  or  local  governments. 

•  The  groups  differed  in  terms  of  the  skills  they  feel  prepared 
to  perform  and  the  extent  to  which  their  jobs  call  for  them  to 
perform  these  skills:  Nine  percent  of  the  national  sample,  vs.  51 
percent  of  the  WPI  engineers,  felt  prepared  in  the  design  area. 

•  A  significantly  higher  percentage  of  WPI  engineers  are  en- 
gaged in  construction  and  design. 

•  Only  26  percent  of  WPI  grads,  vs.  41  percent  of  the  national 
sample,  felt  prepared  to  perform  mathematical,  statistical,  and 
actuarial  procedures,  although  the  WPI  grads  who  do  perform 
these  procedures  felt  so  prepared. 

•  Beyond  the  field  of  engineering  technologies  per  se,  signif- 
icantly higher  percentages  of  WPI  engineers  felt  prepared  to 
write,  to  speak  to  groups,  and  to  lead  discussions,  while  a  sig- 
nificantly higher  percentage  of  the  national  sample  of  engineers 
felt  prepared  to  teach. 

Thus,  Plan  engineering  graduates  feel  equally  well  prepared 
for  engineering,  and  much  better  prepared  for  design  work  and 
for  written  and  oral  communication  than  do  their  counterparts. 

The  preparations  of  WPI  engineers  for  work  appears  to  be 
different,  and  in  fact,  for  many,  the  work  they  do  is  different. 
Once  again,  a  significantly  greater  percentage  of  WPI  graduates 
indicate  that  their  current  job  is  only  somewhat  or  not  at  all 
related  to  their  undergraduate  majors.  The  reasons  for  this  status 
appear  to  be  voluntary,  e.g.,  preference  rather  than  lack  of  op- 
portunity, interest  in  a  non-related  job,  better  opportunities.  As 
Dr.  Bock  notes,  "Plan  engineers  [in  comparison  to  the  national 


sample]  appear  to  be  prepared  for  a  greater  diversity  of  technical 
tasks  and  to  have  a  wider  variety  of  non-technical  skills  when 
they  enter  the  labor  force  .  .  .  [The  data]  suggest  that  [Plan  en- 
gineers] are  becoming  involved  in  a  greater  diversity  of  careers 
than  the  national  comparison  groups." 

Significantly  higher  percentages  of  WPI  engineers  indicated 

Both  recruiters  and  supervisors  rate  WPI  seniors 
better  at  integrating  and  communicating  ideas. 

that  their  jobs  involved  working  on  a  professional  level,  super- 
vising others,  having  policy-  and  decision-making  responsibili- 
ties, setting  their  own  hours,  designing  their  own  programs  of 
work,  and  full  utilization  of  their  skills. 

•  WPI  engineers  seem  to  be  assuming  more  responsibility, 
and  to  be  having  more  autonomy,  than  a  national  sample  of 
engineers  at  a  comparably  early  stage  of  career  development. 

•  A  significantly  higher  percentage  of  WPI  engineers  indicate 
that  they  are  well  paid  in  comparison  to  others  at  the  same  job 
level,  both  in  their  own  place  of  employment  and  elsewhere, 
that  they  are  satisfied  with  their  career  progress  to  date,  and  that 
the  current  job  fits  their  long-range  career  goals. 

•  WPI  engineering  graduates  thus  appear  to  be  more  satisfied 
with  their  current  job  responsibilities  and  prospective  careers 
than  do  engineering  graduates  from  the  national  sample. 

•  Significantly  higher  percentages  of  WPI  engineers  indicated 
that  they  were  very  satisfied  with  the  autonomy,  independence, 
extent  of  responsibility,  opportunity  for  creativity,  and  variety 
in  activities  entailed  by  their  current  jobs. 

Not  only  are  WPI  engineers  more  satisfied  with  their  jobs  than 
the  national  comparison  groups,  they  appear  to  have  more  rea- 
sons to  be  satisfied.  As  Dr.  Bock  notes,  "Plan  graduates  are 
more  likely  to  feel  they  are  succeeding  in  their  current  jobs.  They 


assess  the  costs  and  benefits  of 
a  decision  to  any  group  that  it 
will  affect.  Such  is  the  realm  of 
the  lOP. 

Many  projects  can  best  be 
pursued  away  from  the  cam- 
pus. WPI's  Washington,  D.C., 
Project  Center  was  established 
in  1974  to  provide  exception- 
ally challenging  IQP  opportu- 
nities. Since  then  over  450  stu- 
dents and  33  faculty  have 
completed  nearly  170  projects 
in  cooperation  with  45  govern- 
ment agencies  and  private  or- 
ganizations— lobbying  groups, 
consulting  firms — and  mem- 
bers of  Congress. 

Competition  for  the  30-or-so 
spots  at  the  Center  is  keen.  Last 
year  over  100  students  applied. 
For  a  seven- week  term,  these 
top  junior  and  senior  students 
live  and  work  among  the  na- 
tion's top  decision  makers, 
working  most  often  on  the 
analysis  of  government  policy 


options.  Says  Demetry,  the 
world  of  policy  is  new  and 
sometimes  strange  to  most  un- 
dergraduates. Engineering  stu- 
dents, however,  are  by  nature 
and  preparation  quite  profi- 
cient at  quantitative  work  and 
are  good  problem  solvers. 
"With  practice  in  the  search  for 
information  and  with  the  means 
by  which  inferences  are  made 
from  such  resources,  they  can 
develop  an  impressive  facility 
with  the  concepts  of  policy 
analysis,  its  vocabulary  and  its 
application." 

Recent  projects  include: 

•  For  the  office  of  Senator 
Paul  E.  Tsongas  (D.,  Mass.), 
issues  for  international  solar 
legislation. 

•  For  the  National  Re- 
search Council,  perceptions  of 
management,  labor  and  gov- 
ernment on  the  social  issues  of 
applied  CAD/CAM  technol- 
ogy. 


Associate  Dean  Frank  Lutz.  Annually,  he  oversees  some  1,100 
projects  on  and  off  campus. 


•  For  the  National  Associ- 
ation of  Manufacturers  (NAM), 
evaluation  of  the  effects  of  an- 
titrust policy  on  cooperative 
research  in  the  United  States. 

Brendon  Somerville,  Direc- 
tor of  Innovative  Technology 


and  Scientific  Policy  at  NAM, 
has  good  things  to  say  about 
NAM'S  WPI  experiences,  which 
date  back  to  1974.  "These  en- 
counters have  been  of  extraor- 
dinary value  to  NAM."  In  seven 
short  weeks,  he  observes,  the 


OCTOBER  1982  13 


feel  they  have  greater  autonomy  in  their  work,  a  higher  degree 
of  professional  responsibility,  and  hence,  a  greater  likelihood 
that  they  will  be  successful  in  the  future.'" 

In  fact,  when  the  graduates  were  asked  to  note  the  charac- 
teristics for  which  their  college  education  had  been  very  useful, 
significantly  higher  percentages  of  WPI  engineers  endorsed  state- 
All  in  all,  career  prospects  for  WPI  alumni  are 
better  than  for  the  national  sample. 

ments  involving  cognitive  and  personal  development,  e.g.,  in- 
creased general  knowledge,  increased  creativity  and  ability  to 
think  clearly,  and  improved  self-discipline,  self-confidence,  and 
perseverance.  In  contrast,  the  national  sample  of  engineers  saw 
the  usefulness  of  a  college  education  as  primarily  related  to  find- 
ing and  holding  a  job.  Thus,  WPI  engineers  appear  to  be  attrib- 
uting much  of  their  perceived  success  and  job  satisfaction  to 
factors  associated  with  their  own  very  different  kind  of  college 
education,  and  in  general,  they  were  also  more  satisfied  with  the 
educational  aspects  of  their  college  experience  than  were  their 
counterparts. 

Finally,  when  asked  to  indicate  which  personal  values  were 
essential  or  highly  important  to  them,  WPI  engineering  graduates 
continued  to  endorse  values  consistent  with  the  Plan  to  a  greater 
extent  than  the  national  sample  of  engineering  graduates. 

•  A  significantly  higher  percentage  of  WPI  engineers  indi- 
cated that  influencing  social  values,  helping  others  in  difficulty, 
being  a  community  leader,  participating  in  community  action 
programs,  keeping  up  to  date  with  political  affairs,  and  partici- 
pating in  creative  arts  were  very  important  to  them. 

•  The  national  sample,  on  the  other  hand,  was  more  likely  to 
indicate  that  never  being  obligated  to  people  was  a  very  impor- 
tant value. 


•  WPI  graduates  scored  significantly  higher  on  most  state- 
ments involving  personal  characteristics,  skills,  and  values  which 
are  consistent  with  Plan  goals;  they  do  not  differ  significantly 
from  the  comparison  group  on  most  outcomes  that  are  not  par- 
ticularly relevant  to  Plan  goals. 

To  the  extent  that  WPI  engineers  turn  these  statements  of 
personal  value  into  action,  the  Plan  has  succeeded  in  producing 
the  new  breed  of  engineer — technological  humanists  who  are 
sufficiently  involved  in  the  social,  political,  and  cultural  activities 
of  the  community  to  be  able  to  bring  their  technological  back- 
ground in  problem-solving  to  bear  on  vital  issues. 

In  yet  another  study  of  the  Plan,  conducted  under  the  auspices 
of  the  Exxon  Educational  Foundation,  Dr.  Lee  Harrisberger 
stated,  "There  is  little  doubt  that  experience-based  education 
creates  a  powerful  learning  environment  which  results  in  new 
.  .  .  skills  and  attitudes  which  are  important  to  practicing  engi- 
neers." 

In  concluding  his  1975  study.  Dr.  Lee  Harrisberger  stated, 
"Experiential  learning  works."  In  the  same  year.  Dr.  Cohen 
concluded,".  .  .  it  seems  fair  to  say  that  the  program  is  beginning 
to  succeed  in  terms  of  its  original  expectations  or  goals."  In  1978, 
she  added,  "...  the  WPI  Plan  has  been  demonstrably  effective 
at  the  undergraduate  level."  And  in  1981,  Dr.  Bock  concluded 
"...  the  Plan  is  achieving  its  central  purpose  of  training  'tech- 
nological humanists.'  " 

After  ten  years  of  evaluation,  it  appears  to  be  safe  to  conclude 
that  indeed,  the  WPI  Plan  is  working. 

Shannon  T.  Devoe,  Ph.D.,  is  a  clinical  psychologist  who  spe- 
cializes in  consulting  to  educational  institutions.  Formerly  a  re- 
search associate  at  Clark  University,  she  is  currently  an  advisor 
to  WPI  and  the  Southbridge  (Mass.)  Public  School  System. 
For  more  information  on  the  results  of  the  studies  cited  in  this 
article,  write  the  Editor,  WP/ Journal. 


students  are  consistently  able 
to  research  and  assess  cur- 
rent— not  merely  "back- 
burner" — issues.  For  the  stu- 
dent, he  believes,  the  experi- 
ence provides  a  unique  inside 
look  at  the  "capital  system,"  so 
that  they  mature  quickly  within 
the  milieu  of  Administration 
policy  and  regulatory  agencies. 
"WPI  is  one  of,  if  not  the,  na- 
tion's leading  programs  in  truly 
bringing  students  into  the  real 
world  and  testing  them  at  the 
professional  level,"  he  says. 

Other,  non-residential  proj- 
ect centers  exist  at  Digital 
Equipment  Company,  St.  Vin- 
cent Hospital,  the  University 
of  Massachusetts  Medical  Cen- 
ter, and  the  Norton  Company. 

William  Densmore,  '45  ME. 
Senior  Vice  President  for  En- 

At  WPI's  world-famous  Alden 
Research  iMboratories,  research 
m    IS  current  and  demanding. 


gineering  and  Information  Sys- 
tems at  Norton,  sees  it  this  way: 
Beyond  the  long-term  benefits 
of  contributing  to  the  educa- 
tional process  and  helping  to 
build  much  needed  bridges  be- 
tween business  and  academia, 
rewards  to  Norton  include  tan- 
gible product  development  and 
process  improvement,  fresh 
thinking  injected  into  the  com- 
pany, expanded  contact  with 
faculty  project  advisors,  and 
assistance  in  recruiting. 

While  off-campus  projects 
provide  unusual  opportunities 
for  both  students  and  spon- 
sors, they  constitute  only  about 
40percent  of  the  1,1U0  projects 
conducted  annually.  Actually, 
says  Lutz,  most  projects — 
MOPs  and  lOPs— are  pro- 
posed not  by  companies,  agen- 
cies or  students,  but  by  faculty 
as  part  of  their  research  activ- 
ities. Students  can  thus  be- 
come junior  colleagues  on  fac- 


ulty research,  often  co- 
authoring  papers  and  making 
presentations  at  research  sym- 
posia, making  a  real  contri- 
bution to  knowledge  in  a  spe- 
cific field.  The  depth  and 
logistics  of  each  project  expe- 
rience, he  explains,  make  it  very 
difficult  for  students  to  de- 
velop projects  on  their  own 
from  scratch. 

Currently,  most  off-campus 
IQPs  are  sponsored  by  non- 
corporate public  and  private 
agencies.  Nothing  surprising 
about  this,  says  Demetry.  The 
nature  of  corporations  is  to  in- 
volve students  on  projects  which 
affect  the  profit  and  loss  state- 
ment— a  natural  fit  for  MOPs — 
while  the  mission  of  public 
agencies  is  to  solve  less  tech- 
nical, often  human  problems. 

To  bring  the  two  worlds  to- 
gether, WPI's  Issues  Research 
Collaborative  (IRC)  has  been 
formed  to  identify  topics  of  in- 


14  WPI  JOURNAL 


Looking  Ahead: 

A  Conversation  with  the  President 


terest  to  both  public  and  pri- 
vate groups.  Several  elements 
of  IRC  complement  the  usual 
project  selection  process:  (a) 
the  Executive  Issues  Policy 
Council,  made  up  of  represen- 
tatives from  industry,  the  Gov- 
ernor's office  and  other  public 
agencies;  (b)  development  of  a 
computer-based  information 
retrieval  system;  and  (c)  access 
to  existing  data  bases  and  an- 
alytical resources,  most  nota- 
bly the  Massachusetts  Eco- 
nomic Policy  Analysis  (MEPA) 
Model. 

IRC  topics,  which  lend 
themselves  to  both  student  and 
faculty  research,  address  both 
long-term  issues  that  will  un- 
derlie future  events  in  New 
England  and  beyond,  such  as 
human  resource  needs  and  en- 


ergy transit  impacts,  and  the 
implications  of  policies  that  af- 
fect these  issues. 

At  Genrad  Corporation,  for 
instance,  a  WPI  project  team 
has  examined  the  organiza- 
tional and  quality-of-life  issues 
surrounding  women's  increas- 
ing participation  in  the  job 
market.  Questions  regarding 
child  care  benefits  for  employ- 
ees— both  women  and  men — 
and  regional  differences  in  job 
participation  rates  across  the 
nation  are  just  two  of  the  issues 
being  investigated. 

One  can  conclude  from  all 
this  that  a  decade  of  project 
experience  has  done  nothing  if 
it  hasn't  uncovered  more  and 
more  opportunities. 

Frank  Lutz  is  the  first  to  ad- 
mit that  the  projects  program 


A  recent  talk  with  Dr.  Edmund  T.  Crunch  gave  the  Journal  an 
inside  look  at  the  kinds  of  issues  facing  the  highest  ranks  of  the 
nation's  educators.  Here  are  excerpts  from  that  conversation. 

Journal:  Dr.  Cranch,  what's  ahead  for  higher  education  in  the 
next  decade?  For  many  colleges  and  universities,  it  is  certain 
there  will  be  hard  times.  In  technological  and  science  education 
we  are  confronted  by  at  least  three  fundamental  issues.  First,  in 
the  post- Vietnam  era,  we  experienced  a  surge  of  anti-technology 
sentiment  by  some  facets  of  society.  While  this  has  subsided, 
historically  engineering  education  has  been  closely  coupled  with 
the  state  of  the  economy.  The  question  is  whether  this  historical 
pattern  will  continue  in  this  decade.  Second,  we  have  entered 
an  era  in  which  expansion  of  federal  support  for  higher  education 
is  being  markedly  curtailed.  This  will  have  a  major  impact  on 
the  financing  of  education  for  students  in  the  1980  s.  Third,  de- 
mographic shifts— the  end  of  the  baby  boom  leading  to  a  lower 
birth  rate — will  make  it  more  and  more  difficult  for  colleges  to 
attract  students  to  their  doors.  The  pool  simply  isn't  as  deep  as 
it  was  just  a  few  years  ago.  Clearly,  to  remain  competitive  we 
must  develop  imaginative  programs  of  exceptional  quality  and 
be  more  assertive  in  our  recruiting  efforts.  As  you  are  aware, 
we  have  been  quite  successful  in  this  endeavor. 


is  not  without  its  shortfalls.  "It's 
expensive  and  can  require  a  big 
chunk  of  faculty  time  in  advis- 
ing students."  Maybe  this  is  why 
lesser  schools  haven't  been 
successful  or  even  undertaken 
a  project  program  that  amounts 
to  a  quarter  of  the  degree  re- 
quirement. "Still,  I  think  it's 
what  sets  us  apart  from  the 
competition."  Dean  of  Under- 
graduate Studies  William  Gro- 
gan  '46,  concurs,  and  sees  the 
lack  of  universal  visibility  of  fi- 
nal project  reports — on-  versus 
off-campus  presentation — as 
the  major  hurdle  blocking 
across-the-board  top  quality 
projects. 

And  what  of  the  next  decade 
of  projects?  "We'll  be  looking 
at  a  host  of  issues,"  predicts 
Lutz,  such  as  trying  to  enhance 
the  quality  of  projects,  looking 
for  new,  creative  relationships, 
examining  the  feasibility  of 
getting  research  funding  for 


undergraduate  projects,  ex- 
ploring the  appropriate  outlets 
for  the  3,500-plus  project  re- 
ports in  Gordon  Library.  "We 
don't  expect  to  be  just  sitting 
around  asking  whether  this  or 
that  form  should  be  revised." 
Jim  Demetry  has  an  elo- 
quent way  of  summing  things 
up.  "It'll  take  a  whole  collec- 
tion of  careers  to  measure  the 
effects  of  the  WPI  Plan.  The 
conventional  wisdom  holds  that 
an  engineering  education  has  a 
half  life  of  seven  years  at  best. 
How  do  we  prepare  someone 
for  40  professional  years 
through  undergraduate  courses 
alone?  It's  impossible,  I  be- 
lieve. So  we're  better  off  con- 
centrating on  fundamentals  and 
the  process  of  organizing,  at- 
tacking and  analyzing  prob- 
lems. This  is  learning.  We  say 
this  a  lot,  but  it's  not  just  lip 
service.  We  honestly  believe  the 
projects  help  accomplish  this." 


OCTOBER  1982  15 


Since  the  Plan  came  along  ten  years  before  these  developments, 
what  kinds  of  questions  are  you  asking  regarding  its  relevance  to 
today's  challenges?  We"ve  got  to  examine  closely  whether  the 
aspirations  of  students,  faculty,  and  the  Institute  as  a  whole  are 
being  met  and  try  to  predict  the  future  needs  of  these  groups. 
For  example,  projects  are  very  faculty-intensive.  Good  project 
topics  and  stimulating  faculty  advising  don't  just  happen  auto- 
matically. They  take  time  and  conscious  effort  to  develop.  We're 
constantly  challenged  to  provide  meaningful  projects  for  our 
students.  We've  got  to  review  and  assess  on  a  regular  basis  what 
distinguishes  really  good  projects  from  mediocre  ones,  then  try 
to  foster  the  positive  factors  in  the  entire  projects  program. 

The  humanities  sufficiency  and  the  IQP — what's  the  status  of  their 
health?  They're  both  doing  well.  It's  true  that  the  IQP  can  call 
no  academic  department  its  natural  home.  Hence,  we  must  work 
hard  to  incorporate  the  IQP  into  the  Plan  so  that  in  the  future 
both  students  and  faculty  will  feel  it  is  a  constructive  learning 
experience. 

The  humanities  sufficiency  plays  a  vital  role  in  the  Plan.  It  acts 
as  an  undergraduate  minor  in  non-technical  fields,  thus  helping 
the  Plan  meet  its  objective  of  educating  the  humanistic  tech- 
nologist. Further,  it  gives  the  humanities  department  a  mean- 
ingful stake  in  an  institution  whose  primary  purpose  is  science 
and  technology.  At  many  technological  colleges  this  group  of 
faculty  takes  on  second-class  status.  Through  the  sufficiency  and 
IQP  work,  WPI  faculty  in  the  humanities  are  given  an  oppor- 
tunity to  interact  with  students  whose  interests  amplify  their  own. 
We're  seeing  some  outstanding  work  in  the  humanities  area. 

What  is  the  role  of  faculty  research  in  a  college  whose  primary 
mission  is  undergraduate  education?  It  plays  a  key  role.  As  you 
know,  it's  generally  conceded  that  some  research  is  vital  in  order 


that  faculty  remain  current  in  their  fields  of  specialization.  Only 
by  teachers  staying  at  the  forefront  of  their  fields  can  their  courses 
and  curricula  reflect  the  state  of  the  art.  A  major  issue  confront- 
ing us  today  is  finding  ways  in  which  research  activities  can  be 
assimilated  into  the  Plan.  MQPs  and  IQPs  are  important  factors 
here  because  they  are  in  many  cases  a  facet  or  segment  of  faculty 
research.  To  provide  classroom  and  project  experiences  that  are 
relevant  and  exciting  to  students,  faculty  must  be  aware  of  the 
cutting  edge  of  their  field.  One  feeds  the  other. 

Small  and  mid-sized  private  colleges  have  always  played  a  vital 
role  in  America's  educational  system.  How  will  they — and  spe- 
ciflcally  WPI — survive  the  severe  difliculties  ahead?  The  devel- 
opments I  mentioned  earlier — economic  and  demographic  shifts — 
will  call  into  question  the  reputation  for  excellence  enjoyed  by 
these  institutions.  Ten  years  ago,  in  the  face  of  other  serious 
challenges  to  education,  innovation  kept  WPI  vital.  While  WPI 
has  an  outstanding  track  record— both  before  and  since  the  Plan's 
inception — we  must  remain  alert  to  ways  in  which  we  can  further 
improve  our  approach.  A  trap  into  which  some  institutions  may 
fall  is  a  temptation  to  make  quick  fixes.  WPI  is  extremely  for- 
tunate that  its  educational  Plan  is  fundamentally  sound  and  has 
had  sufficient  time  for  thorough  implementation.  Certainly,  we 
are  committed  to  maintaining  our  tradition  of  excellence.  In  spite 
of  the  demographic  factors  mentioned  previously.  I  believe  that 
engineering  and  science  education  will  benefit  from  the  tech- 
nological and  economic  imperatives  implicit  in  modern  society. 
With  the  increasing  demand  for  engineers  and  scientists  in  almost 
all  sectors  of  our  economy,  I  believe  we  are  in  a  position  of 
strength  to  weather  the  storms  ahead.  The  creativity  and  re- 
sourcefulness that  characterize  our  faculty  give  me  confidence 
in  our  future  vitality. 


Getting  a  Job  ^ 


The  job  market  for  graduating 
engineers  and  scientists  has 
never  been  stronger.  Engi- 
neers, for  example,  are  in  such 
great  demand  today  that  they 
receive  the  highest  average 
starting  salaries  of  all  bache- 
lor's degree  recipients. 

Bill  Trask  is  Director  of 
Graduate  and  Career  Planning 
at  WPI.  In  the  past  year,  he 
says,  well  over  5, 000  inter- 
views were  given  by  recruiters 
from  more  than  300  compa- 
nies— an  average  of  nearly  ten 
for  each  graduating  senior. 

Trask  has  seen  many  a  class 
go  on  to  professional  careers 
and  graduate  school.  Even  after 
graduation,  his  office  can  assist 
alumni  seeking  new  employ- 
ment or  changing  career  paths. 

"We  see  very  impressive  ef- 
fects of  the   Plan   during  re- 


cruiting interviews,"  he  says. 
"Our  kids  can  get  up  on  their 
feet  and  be  articulate  about 
their  experiences  here,  espe- 
cially about  their  projects.  Our 
kids  really  open  up." 

Recruiters  interviewed  by  the 
Journal  couldn't  agree  more. 
Among  them  is  Jack  Marcil  of 
General  Electric  Company. 
WPI  students,  he  believes,  "are 
better  interviewers — more  at 
ease,  self-confident  and  artic- 
ulate— than    engineering    stu- 


dents from  other  colleges." 
Projects,  he  says,  come  very 
close  to  real-life  industrial  ex- 
periences. And  in  professional 
teamwork  situations,  the  MOP, 
coupled  with  the  IQP,  enables 
grads  to  understand  the  needs 
of  and  communicate  ideas  bet- 
ter with  people  outside  the 
realm  of  technology. 

Dr.  Norbert  Smith,  of  the 
Electric  Boat  Division  of  Gen- 
eral Dynamics  Corporation, 
believes  scientists  and  engi- 
neers, perhaps  more  than  other 
professionals,  must  exhibit  re- 
sourcefulness and  assertive- 
ness.  "Projects  help  provide  the 
basis  for  these  characteristics." 
He  sees  only  one  problem  with 
the  Plan:  grading.  In  general, 
he  believes  employers  have 
trouble  understanding  WPI's 
Distinguished/Acceptable  sys- 
tem of  grading.  "Most  recruit- 
ers find  equating  this  two-tiered 
scheme  with  conventional  A- 


B-C-D-F  system  something  of 
a  hassle." 

GE's  Marcil  mirrors  Smith's 
concern  for  this  anomaly,  as 
does  Ken  Keane  of  the  Tor- 
rington  Company,  a  leading 
maker  of  bearings.  "But  this 
doesn't  create  a  stumbling  block 
in  seeking  WPI  hirees,"  he  says. 
WPI  students,  he  adds,  seem 
to  gain  a  broader  background 
than  those  he  visits  at  conven- 
tional technological  colleges. 

John  Zifcak.  '65  PH,  now 
Section  Manager,  Science  and 
Engineering  Research  Depart- 
ment at  Foxboro  Company, 
Foxboro,  Mass.,  has  seen  the 
company  hire  several  students 
who'd  done  projects  at  Fox- 
boro. "They  possess  a  certain 
intangible  quality,"  he  says. 
They  come  in  with  a  maturity 
that  other  grads,  who  haven't 
gotten  out  of  the  classroom, 
don't  enjoy.  "It  gives  them  a 
leg  up  on  the  competition." 


16  WPI  JOURNAL 


An  Alumni  Omnibus 

BEING  A  COLLECTION  OF  THOUGHTS  ON  THE 
PLACES  AND  WAYS  THE  MIND  GETS  HONED. 


Photography  by 
William  Denison 


The  hand 
is  the 
cutting  edge  of 
the  mind. 

—JACOB  BRONOWSKI 
OCTOBER  1982        I        4 


Education  is  a  weapon,  whose  effect  depends  on  who  holds  it 


.mJ/  in  his  hand  and  at  whom  it  is  aimed. 


-JOSEPH  STALIN 


la 


4 


It  is  well  to  observe  the 
force  and  virtue  and  con- 
sequence of  discoveries, 
and  these  are  to  he  seen  no- 
where more  conspicuously 
than  in  printing,  gunpowder, 
and  the  magnet.  For  these 
three  have  changed  the  whok 
face  and  state  of  things 
throughout  the  world,  ...  in 
so  much  that  no  empire,  no 
sect,  no  star  seems  to  have 
exerted  greater  power  and  in- 
fluence m  human  atfairs  than 
these  mechanical  discoveries. 
—FRANCIS  BACON 


II         ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


T! 


I 


have  yet  to  see  any  problem,  however  comphcated,  which,  when  you  looked  at  it  in  the 
right  way,  did  not  become  still  more  complicated.  — POUL  ANDERSON 


he  ideas  of  economists 
and  political  philoso- 
phers, both  when  they 
are  right  and  when  they  are 
wrong,  are  more  powerful 
than  is  commonly  under- 
stood. Indeed,  the  world  is 
ruled  by  little  else.  Practical 
men,  who  believe  themselves 
to  be  quite  exempt  from  any 
intellectual  influences,  are 
usually  the  slaves  of  some  de- 
funct economist.  Madmen  in 
authority,  who  hear  voices  in 
the  air,  are  distilling  their 
frenzy  from  some  academic 
scribbler  of  a  few  years  back. 
I  am  sure  that  the  power  of 
vested  interests  is  vastly  exag- 
gerated compared  with  the 
gradual  encroachment  of 
ideas.  Not,  indeed,  immedi- 
ately, but  after  a  certain 
interval;  for  in  the  field  of 
economic  and  political  philos- 
ophy there  are  not  so  many 
who  are  influenced  by  new 
theories  after  they  are  twenty- 
five  or  thirty  years  of  age,  so 
that  the  ideas  which  civil 
servants  and  politicians  and 
even  agitators  apply  to  cur- 
rent events  are  not  likely  to 
be  the  newest.  But,  soon  or 
late,  it  is  ideas,  not  vested  in- 
terests, which  are  dangerous 
for  good  or  evil. 

— J-M.  KEYNES 


Our  universities  have 
become  the  research 
and  training  centers 
on  which  American  defense 
and  industry  and  agriculture 
and  the  professions  depend. 
Our  progress  in  all  these  fields 
depends  upon  a  constant  flow 
of  high-caliber  and  skilled 
manpower,  upon  new  ideas 
and  the  ability  to  apply  those 
skills.  Thus,  today,  the  uni- 
versity is,  in  the  words  of 
Woodrow  Wilson,  "the  root 
of  our  intellectual  life  as  a  na- 
tion." 

—JOHN  F.  KENNEDY 


OCTOBER  1982 


There  is  the  greatest 
practical  benefit  in 
making  a  few  failures 
early  in  life. 

—THOMAS  HUXLEY 


Which  would  have 
advanced  the  most 
at  the  end  of  a 
month — the  boy  who  had 
made  his  own  jackknife  from 
the  ore  which  he  had  dug  and 
smelted,  reading  as  much  as 
would  be  necessary  for  this, — 
or  the  boy  who  had  attended 
the  lectures  on  metallurgy  at 
the  Institute  in  the  mean- 
while, and  had  received  a 
Rogers'  penknife  from  his  fa- 
ther: Which  would  be  most 
likely  to  cut  his  fingers? 

—HENRY  THOREAU 


T 


he  ends  are  achieved  by  indirect  means— something  said  in  private  conversation  one  day 
in  the  street    a  remark  made  by  a  teacher  in  the  middle  of  a  discussion,  a  book  picked 
up  m  someone's  rcn.m  ....  -HAROLD  TAYLOR 


Take  no  thought  for 
the  morrow.  Live  nei- 
ther in  the  past  nor  in 
the  future,  but  let  each  day's 
work  absorb  your  entire  ener- 
gies, and  satisfy  your  widest 
ambition.  .  .  .  The  student 
who  is  worrying  about  his  fu- 
ture, anxious  over  the  exami- 
nations, doubting  his  fitness 
for  the  profession,  is  certain 
not  to  do  so  well  as  the  man 
who  cares  for  nothing  but  the 
matter  in  hand,  and  who 
knows  not  whither  he  is 
going! 

—WILLIAM  OSLLK 


IV        ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


ffl — h 


hen  he  has  learnt  that  bottinney  means  a 
knowledge  of  plants,  he  goes  and  knows 
'em.  That's  our  system,  Nickleby;  what 
^  do  you  think  of  it?  -charles  dickens 


I  learned  three  important 
things  in  college — to  use 
a  library,  to  memorize 
quickly  and  visually,  to  drop 
asleep  at  any  time  given  a 
horizontal  surface  and  fifteen 
minutes.  What  1  could  not 
learn  was  to  think  creatively 
on  schedule. 

—AGNES  DE  MILLE 


OCTOBER  1982        V 


The  body  of  an  athlete 
and  the  soul  of  a  sage; 
these  are  what  we  re- 
quire to  be  happy. 

—VOLTAIRE 


It  is  the  attitude  of  mind 
developed  in  the  student 
as  he  proceeds  with  his 
studies,  and  not  primarily  the 
information  he  acquires, 
which  determine  the  charac- 
ter and  extent  of  his  educa- 
tion. 
—LUTHER  EISENHARDT 


This  is  the  age  of  knowledge,  more  of  which  has  been 
established  than  in  the  whole  recorded  past.  It  has  de- 
veloped so  rapidly  that  we  are  no  longer  at  all  sure  of 
what  we  know.  We  can  take  no  comfort  in  the  belief  that 
what  appears  to  be  the  whole  truth  will  be  the  whole  truth  to- 

— BARNABY  KEENLY 


morrow. 


VI        ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


wo  sorts  of  truth:  trivialities,  where  opposites  are  obviously 
absurd,  and  profound  truths,  recognized  by  the  fact  that  the 
opposite  is  also  a  profound  truth* 


NIELS  BOHR 


Few  of  us  take  the  pains 
to  study  the  origin  of 
our  cherished  convic- 
tions; indeed,  we  have  a  nat- 
ural repugnance  to  so  doing 
.  .  .  .The  resentment  aroused 
when  doubt  is  cast  upon  any 
of  our  assumptions  leads  us  to 
seek  every  manner  of  excuse 
for  clinging  to  them.  The  re- 
sult is  that  most  of  our  so- 
called  reasoning  consists  in 
finding  arguments  for  going 
on  believing  as  we  already  do. 
—J-  H.  ROBINSON 


k 

■'■  '.j 

■1-. 

T'  1 

^^  -a 

^-'i  ' 

_    -       \     '     _ 

> 

/ 

^   ~       -      #C(/  /      j     ■,       -      - 

•^•i 

^ 

1 

1 

r 

4 

-A 

1 

Ik 

■ 

*1^1^<-I 

h. 

It's  not  the  least  of  the 
functions  of  a  true  univer- 
sity to  maintain  a  climate 
favorable  to  the  growth  of 
new  ideas  and  novel  prac- 
tices, and  then  sit  back  and 
see  what  happens.  In  such  a 
climate,  weeds  spring  up 
along  with  wholesome  new 
plants.  Where  weeds  won't 
grow,  nothing  will  grow. 
Trustees  and  visiting  alumni 
...  are  apt  to  see  the  weeds 
and  yearn  to  fly  at  them  with 
a  hoe.  That  would  be  danger- 
ous because  it's  hard  to  tell  at 
first  which  is  the  weed! 

— ROMEYN  BERRY 


OCTOBER  1982        VII 


1^   T7  or  God's  sake,  stop  researching  for  a  while 
^^X_and  begin  to  think.  —waiter  Hamilton  moberly 


Every  good  laboratory 
consists  of  first-rate 
men  working  in  great 
harmony  to  insure  the  prog- 
ress of  science;  but  down  at 
the  end  of  the  hall  is  an  un- 
sociable, wrong-headed  fellow 
working  on  unprofitable  lines, 
and  in  his  hands  lies  the  hope 
of  discovery. 

—LORD  RUTHERFORD 


It  ain't  the  things  we  don't 
know  that  hurt  us.  It's  the 
things  we  do  know  that 
ain't  so. 

— ARTEMUS  WARD 


VIII        ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


vO  you  wish  to  learn 
jscience  easily?  Then 
begin  by  learning 
your  own  language. 

— ETIENNE  BONNOT 


FtSMER   SCieNTiriC 

I    It    n    H    n    m 


IBS 


Hi 


ere  is  the  world, 
sound  as  a  nut,  per- 
.fect,  not  the  smallest 
piece  of  chaos  left,  never  a 
stitch  nor  an  end,  not  a  mark 
of  haste,  or  botching,  or  sec- 
ond thought;  but  the  theory 
of  the  world  is  a  thing  of 
shreds  and  patches. 

—RALPH  WALDO 
EMERSON 


Ca  Sc  11 


Cs 

Fr 


Ra  Ac 


peiiiook:  chart  of  the  elements  ^. 

«              $      !S     n     <t      a     n     ««  ioss 

H  He 

8     C      N     O      F  N« 

Ai     Si      P      S     a  Ar 

Br  Kr 

I  Xe 


C«    PrNdPmS««EuG<»TbD»HoErTmYbU 
fh    Pi    U    »0  Pu  Am  Cm  Bk  Ct   Es  Fm  Md  No  Ir 


vmmsmm 


*■     I     ""o  arrive  at  the  simplest  truth,  as  Newton  knew  and 
I      practiced,  requires  years  of  contemplation.  Not  activity. 
JL     Not  reasoning.  Not  calculating.  Not  busy  behavior  of 
any  kind.  Not  reading.  Not  talking.  Not  making  an  effort.  Not 
thinking.  Simply  bearing  in  mind  what  it  is  one  needs  to  know. 
And  yet  those  with  the  courage  to  tread  this  path  to  real  dis- 
covery are  not  only  offered  practically  no  guidance  on  how  to 
do  so,  they  are  actively  discouraged  and  have  to  set  about  it  in 
secret.  .  .  .  —GEORGE  SPENCER  BROWN 


A  nimals  studied  by  Americans  rush  about  frantically, 
/-.\    with  an  incredible  display  of  hustle  and  pep,  and  at 
JL       JLlast  achieve  the  desired  result  by  chance.  Animals  ob- 
served by  Germans  sit  still  and  think,  and  at  last  evolve  the 
solution  out  of  their  inner  consciousness. 

— BERTRAND  RUSSELL 


OCTOBER  1982        IX 


If  we  begin  with  certain- 
ties, we  shall  end  in 
doubts;  but  if  we  begin 
with  doubts,  and  are  patient 
in  them,  we  shall  end  in  cer- 
tainties. 

—FRANCIS  BACON 


When  a  thing  was 
new  people  said, 
"It  is  not  true." 
Later,  when  its  truth  became 
obvious,  people  said,  "Any- 
way, it  is  not  important,"  and 
when  its  importance  could 
not  be  denied,  people  said, 
"Anyway,  it  is  not  new." 

—WILLIAM  JAMES 


.\1^ 


=.1*^ 


%^"\ 


■M 


•«. 


•  V 


k\ 


One  hears  a  good  deal 
nowadays  of  the  hos- 
tility between  sci- 
ence and  technology.  I  don't 
think  that  is  true,  gentlemen. 
I  am  quite  sure  that  it  isn't 
true,  gentlemen.  It  almost 
certainly  isn't  true.  It  really 
can't  be  true.  .  .  .  They  have 
nothing  whatever  to  do  with 
one  another. 

—DAVID  HILBERT 


he  Stone  Age  may  re- 
turn on  the  gleaming 
wings  of  Science. 
-WINSTON  CHURCHILL 


ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


ngineering  ...  is  the  art  of  doing  that  well 
with  one  dollar,  which  any  bungler  can  do 
with  two  after  a  fashion. 

—ARTHUR  M.  WELLINGTON 


The  habit  of  appre- 
hending a  technology 
in  its  completeness: 
this  is  the  essence  of  techno- 
logical humanism,  and  this  is 
what  we  should  expect  educa- 
tion in  higher  technology  to 
achieve.  I  believe  it  could  be 
achieved  by  making  specialist 
studies  the  core  around  which 
are  grouped  liberal  studies 
which  are  relevant  to  these 
specialist  studies.  But  they 
must  be  relevant;  the  path  to 
culture  should  be  through  a 
man's  specialism,  not  by-pass- 
ing it.  ...  A  student  who 
can  weave  his  technology 
into  the  fabric  of  society  can 
claim  to  have  a  liberal  educa- 
tion; a  student  who  cannot 
weave  his  technology  into  the 
fabric  of  society  cannot  claim 
even  to  be  a  good  technolo- 
gist. 

—ERIC  ASHBY 


OCTOBER  1982 


XI 


The  adventurous  stu- 
dent will  always  study 
classics,  in  whatever 
language  they  may  be  written, 
and  however  ancient  they 
may  be.  For  what  are  the 
classics  but  the  noblest  re- 
corded thoughts  of  man? 
They  are  the  only  oracles 
which  are  not  decayed,  and 
there  are  such  answers  to  the 
most  modem  inquiry-  in  them 
as  Delphi  and  Dodona  never 
gave.  We  might  as  well  omit 
to  study  Nature  because  she  is 
old. 

—HENRY  THOREAU 


nowledge  is  one.  Its  division  into  subjects 
is  a  concession  to  human  weakness. 

— HALFORDJOHN  MACKINDER 


Bi 


ooks  won't  stay 
.banned.  They  won't 
bum.  ideas  won't  go  to 
jail.  In  the  long  run  of  his- 
t()r>',  the  censor  and  the  in- 
quisitor have  always  lost.  The 
only  sure  weapon  against  bad 
ideas  is  better  ideas. 

—WHITNEY  GRISWOLD 


T 


he  first  rule  of  mtclli- 
gent  tinkering  is  to 
save  all  the  parrs. 
—PAUL  FHR1JC:1I 


XI! 


ALUMNI  MA(3AZ!NE  CONSORTIUM 


4    sked  if  he  could  summarize  the  lessons  of  history  in  a  short  book,  Charles  A.  Beard  said 
he  could  do  it  in  four  sentences: 

1.  Whom  the  gods  would  destroy,  they  first  make  mad  with  power. 

2.  The  mills  of  God  grind  slowly,  but  they  grind  exceedingly  small. 

3.  The  bee  fertilizes  the  flower  it  robs. 

4.  When  it  is  dark  enough,  you  can  see  the  stars. 


A    sk 

A 


It  is  not  so  important  to  be 
serious  as  it  is  to  be  seri- 
ous about  the  important 
things.  The  monkey  wears  an 
expression  of  seriousness 
which  would  do  credit  to  any 
college  student,  but  the  mon- 
key is  serious  because  he 
itches.     — R.M.  HUTCHINS 


A 


man  doesn't  learn  to 
understand  anything 
unless  he  loves  it. 

—GOETHE 


OCTOBER  1982 


XIII 


SlT 


Inhere  is  nothing  more 
'•      notable  in  Socrates 
Jj:     than  that  he  found 
time,  when  he  was  an  old 
man,  to  learn  music  and 
dancing,  and  thought  it  time 
well  spent. 

—MONTAIGNE 


XIV        ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


hatever  gains  we  may  make  in  our  material  condition, 
whatever  limitations  are  still  obvious,  let  us  not  forget,  my 
friends,  that  men  and  methods  make  universities,  not  halls, 
nor  books,  nor  instruments,  important  as  these  are. 

—DANIEL  COIT  OILMAN 


To  know  only  one 
thing  well  is  to  have  a 
barbaric  mind:  civili- 
zation implies  the  graceful 
relation  of  all  varieties  of  ex- 
perience to  a  central  humane 
system  of  thought.  The  pre- 
sent age  is  peculiarly  barbaric: 
introduce,  say,  a  Hebrew 
scholar  to  an  ichthyologist  or 
an  authority  on  Danish  place 
names  and  the  pair  of  them 
would  have  no  single  topic  in 
common  but  the  weather  or 
the  war  (if  there  happened  to 
be  a  war  in  progress,  which  is 
usual  in  this  barbaric  age). 

—ROBERT  ORAVES 


OCTOBER  1982 


XV 


ducation  is  .  ,  .  hanging  around  until  youVe  caught  on. 

—ROBERT  FROST 


XVI        ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


WPI  CLASS  NOTES 


WPI  Alumni  Association 

President,  Peter  H.  Horstmann,  "55 
Senior  Vice  President, 

Clark  L.  Poland,  '48 
Vice  President, 

Harry  W.  Tenney,  Jr.  '56 
Secretary-Treasurer, 

Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66 
Past  President,  John  H.  McCabe,  '68 

Executive  Committee 
members-at-large 

Henry  P.  AUessio,  '61;  Philip  B.  Ryan,  '65; 
Donald  E.  Ross,  '54;  Anson  C.  Fyler,  '45 

Fund  Board 

Henry  Styskal,  Jr.  '50,  chair;  Richard  B. 
Kennedy,  '65,  vice  chair;  Gerald  Finkle, 
'57;  Allen  H.  Levesque,  '59;  Philip  H. 
Puddington,  '59;  Richard  A.  Davis,  '53;  C. 
John  Lindegren,  '39;  John  M.  Tracy,  '52 


1912 


MARRIED:  Norma  Larson,  honorary  member 
of  the  Class  of  1912  and  former  director  of 
records  and  services  at  WPI,  to  Richard  Quin- 
zani  in  Worcester  on  July  10,  1982. 

Norma,  the  unofficial  first  lady  of  the  Alumni 
Office  for  30  years,  has  been  a  friend  to  hundreds 
of  alumni  and  their  families.  In  1976,  she  was 
the  first  WPI  woman  staff  member  to  be  tapped 
for  Skull.  In  1977,  she  left  WPI  to  go  into  pri- 
vate business.  Currently,  she  is  with  Ben  Bous- 
quet  Gallery  of  Homes,  Worcester. 

Dick,  a  registered  professional  engineer,  holds 
a  BSEE  from  the  University  of  Massachusetts, 
Amherst.  He  has  been  a  project  liaison  engi- 
neer for  Boston  Edison  on  WPI  projects,  par- 
ticipating in  a  number  of  MQPs  and  IQPs.  A 
past  chairman  of  the  Boston  Chapter  of  the 
Power  Engineering  Society  (PES),  he  is  now 
the  Northern  Region  I  Chapter  representative 
from  the  Boston,  Worcester  County  and  Man- 
chester (NH)  chapters  to  the  national  PES 
Council.  He  is  a  member  of  the  IEEE. 


1917 


Dick  Daniels  writes  that  he  still  has  his  amateur 
radio  license,  although  he  seldom  transmits. 


He  started  out  in  "wireless"  in  1908,  four  years 
before  the  government  required  exams  and  "put 
us  all  where  it  decided  it  would  be  difficult  to 
send  beyond  state  boundaries.  That  backfired, 
because  we  were  still  able  to  talk  around  the 
world."  Dick  and  his  wife  live  in  South  Yar- 
mouth and  enjoy  the  Cape. 

Art  Gorman,  who  was  unable  to  attend  re- 
union, was  slated  to  be  in  New  England  in  late 
August.  During  his  career,  he  was  a  sanitary 
engineer  for  the  U.S.  Public  Health  Service, 
worked  on  Chicago's  water  problems  and  ended 
up  with  the  Atomic  Energy  Commission  before 
retirement. 

At  88,  Bob  Hanckel  contjnues  keeping  up  his 
garden  and  grounds  in  Scituate,  MA.  "My  son, 
Stuart,  lives  right  next  door  to  keep  a  watch* 
over  my  doings."  Since  Betty  passed  away,  he 
has  rented  part  of  his  big  house  so  that  he  can 
have  company. 

Mac  Mackenzie  and  his  wife  live  a  quiet  life, 
with  some  travel,  in  Spartanburg,  SC.  Mac  likes 
gardening  and  tinkering  in  his  woodshop.  They 
have  two  children  and  seven  grandchildren, 
scattered  from  Cleveland,  Ohio,  to  South  Car- 
olina. Mac  was  unable  to  attend  the  65th  class 
reunion. 

The  Louis  Jacobys  recently  celebrated  their 
50th  wedding  anniversary.  Their  son,  Robert, 
lives  near  them  so  they  often  see  their  four 
grandchildren.  Although  Jacoby  retired  ten 
years  ago,  he  walks  about  a  mile  every  day  to 
a  branch  office  of  Bache  &  Co.  to  meet  with 
friends  and  watch  the  stock  market  reports. 

Last  spring,  Earle  Pierce  fell  and  hurt  his 
back.  He  spent  three  weeks  in  the  hospital, 
"with  nurses  around  the  clock."  Once  out  of 
the  hospital  he  recuperated  at  his  cousin's  house. 
His  wife  passed  away  in  March.  Earle  lives  in 
Middlebury,  CT. 

Brig.  Gen.  Hermon  Safford,  Ret.,  resides  in 
La  Jolla,  CA,  with  his  wife  Annemarie.  Her- 
mon has  two  children,  five  grandchildren  and 
three  great-grandchildren.  He  was  sorry  to  miss 
his  65th  reunion,  "but  3000  miles  is  a  pretty 
long  haul  for  an  old-timer." 

Frank  Swallow  says  that  after  42  years  with 
the  U.S.  Envelope  Company,  he  retired  in  1959 
and  moved  to  DeBary,  FL,  "a  pleasant,  peace- 
ful community."  He  and  his  wife  have  been 
married  for  64  years.  Their  daughter  and 
grandson  and  family  live  only  30  miles  away  in 
Daytona  Beach. 

Jack  Wheeler,  who  lives  in  West  Mystic,  CT, 
still  sails  his  35-ft.  sloop  and  plays  golf.  For  the 
past  six  months,  his  wife  has  been  ill,  but  since 
their  children  and  their  families  live  nearby,  he 
planned  to  attend  the  reunion  luncheon. 

Betsy  and  Laurence  Wood  of  Columbus,  OH, 
recently  spent  nearly  six  months  in  Florida. 
Says  Larry,  "We  have  enjoyed  57  years  of  happy 
married  life." 


1922 


Howard  Carlson  writes  he  was  unable  to  attend 
his  60th  reunion,  but  recalls  when  he  and  sev- 
eral other  WPI  students  residing  in  a  rooming 
house  saved  a  mother  and  child  overcome  by 
gas  fumes.  "We  called  ourselves  the  'Gas  House 
Gang'  after  that  near-fatal  event,  and  as  alumni 
we  often  got  together  on  a  yearly  basis." 

Charles  Clarkson  from  California  could  not 
attend  the  reunion  either.  He  has  warm  mem- 
ories of  "two  of  the  finest  teachers  that  I  ever 
met,  Dr.  Masius  and  Dr.  Morley."  According 
to  Clarkson,  they  could  solve  problems  both 
inside  and  outside  the  classroom. 

George  Walker,  WPI  trustee  emeritus,  was 
unable  to  make  reunion  because  of  his  busy 
schedule,  but  alumni  activities  have  been  "al- 
most a  full-time  extracurricular  program  for  50 
years."  In  1962  he  received  the  Taylor  award 
for  distinguished  alumni  service  to  WPI.  He 
still  walks  four  miles  a  day  or  pedals  20  miles 
a  day  on  his  exercise  bicycle. 


1927 


Mr.  and  Mrs.  Richard  Bliven  observed  their 
50th  wedding  anniversary  in  September  of  1981. 
While  his  55th  reunion  was  taking  place  at 
WPI,  Dr.  Richard  Irons  was  receiving  a  silver 
bowl  during  Prize  Day  ceremonies  at  Groton 
(MA)  School  in  recognition  of  his  50  years  as 
school  tennis  coach.  While  he  was  coach,  Gro- 
ton teams  won  55  of  58  matches  between  1967 
and  1972  and  had  20  straight  years  of  winning 
seasons,  from  1962  to  1982. 


1930 


Ed  Delano,  who  at  77  still  rides  his  bicycle  for 
pleasure  and  competition  (up  to  5,000  miles 
per  year),  rode  for  the  benefit  of  the  CROP 
Pedal  Push  Over  Hunger  held  in  Davis,  CA, 
in  May. 


1931 


Frederick  Farrar  was  recently  named  a  Paul 
Harris  fellow  by  the  Keene  (NH)  Rotary  Club. 
The  honor  recognizes  significant  community 
service  and  affiliation  with  the  Rotary  Foun- 
dation, an  organization  connected  with  the  Ro- 
tary Club  that  furthers  international  under- 
standing. Farrar,  who  founded  Frederick  A. 
Farrar,  Inc.,  of  Keene,  has  been  active  in 


OCTOBER  1982  33 


Scouting  for  many  years.  He  was  an  original 
member  of  the  President's  Advisory  Council 
at  WPI. 


1935 


Al  Moran  is  enjoying  retirement  pursuing  his 
hobbies,  studying  genealogy  and  serving  as 
treasurer  of  the  local  AARP  chapter.  Formerly 
he  was  with  what  is  now  the  Organic  Chemicals 
Division  of  American  Cvanamid,  Bound  Brook. 
NJ. 

John  Molloy  is  retired  and  living  with  his 
wife.  Doris,  in  Tucson.  AZ.  They  have  six  chil- 
dren and  several  grandchildren.  Previously. 
Molloy  was  a  long-time  employee  of  the  U.S. 
Geological  Survey.  Water  Resources  Division. 
In  1974  he  was  listed  in  Who's  Who. 

Ted  Swan  serves  as  an  alternate  Dad  in  his 
local  Boys'  Club  program  called  B.U.D.  (Boys 
Under  Direction).  The  program  is  supervised 
by  the  New  York  State  Redevelopment  Cen- 
ter. Says  Swan  of  his  particular  "son."  "We 
spend  up  to  16  hours  a  week  together." 


1936 


Mr.  and  Mrs.  Roger  Bruce  of  Worcester  were 
honored  in  April  on  their  40th  wedding  anni- 
versary at  a  reception  given  in  their  home  by 
their  family.  They  have  five  children  and  two 
grandchildren.  Bruce  is  retired  from  the  former 
American  Steel  &  Wire  Co.  and  is  vice  presi- 
dent of  Persons-Majestic  Mfg.  Co. 

Alexander  Gordon,  research  director  for 
Vellumoid,  Inc.,  Worcester,  has  been  named 
a  1982  recipient  of  the  Award  of  Merit  by  the 
international  standards-writing  organization. 
ASTM.  During  the  awards  ceremony  in 
Charleston.  SC,  in  April,  he  was  cited  for  18 
years  of  active  service  on  ASTM  gasket  com- 
mittees. Gordon,  who  was  the  first  member  of 
(gasket)  Committee  F-3  to  receive  the  Award 
of  Merit,  is  now  a  fellow  of  ASTM. 


1939 


E.  Bruce  Crabtree  has  been  named  vice  pres- 
ident of  sales  at  Bryant  Grinder  Division  of 
Ex-Ccll-O  m  Springfield,  VT.  He  joined  Bryant 
in  1974  as  manager  of  sales  and  service.  The 
following  year  he  was  named  general  sales 
manager. 

Chester  Fergu.son,  Jr.,  retired  as  a  senior 
engineer  for  Boemg  Co.,  Rcnton,  WA,  last 
year. 

Charles  Thulin,  formerly  a  department  head 
al  Bell  Labs,  is  retired  and  living  in  Matawan, 
NJ. 


1940 


Frank  Delany  retired  in  July  of  I9K1  He  had 
been  with  Ha/cltinc  Corp.  of  Grccniawn,  NY. 

Jud.son  I^wd  was  a  featured  speaker  at  the 
Hancock  Bank  Sixteenth  Annual  Economic 
Symposium  held  in  Biloxi,  MS.  in  February. 

Herbert  Shaw,  Jr.,  who  headed  American 


Re-Insurance  Company's  facultative  division 
for  the  past  13  years,  has  retired.  Shaw  joined 
the  New  York  firm  in  1963  after  wide  experi- 
ence in  the  industry  since  1948. 


1941 


William  Bowne  has  retired  from  D/B/A  Aero- 
conomy  Agency  as  a  manufacturing  engineer- 
ing representative.  He  is  located  in  Schenec- 
tady. 

Alexander  Chodakowski  is  self-employed  in 
Oxon  Hill.  MD.  He  has  a  PhD  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  Illinois. 

In  February  F.  Warren  Crowley  took  early 
retirement  from  Alexander  &  Alexander.  Inc. 
He  has  moved  to  Whiting.  NJ. 

R.  Keith  Mclntyre  is  a  self-employed  data 
processing  consultant  in  White  Plains,  NY. 

Richard  Ramsdell  works  as  a  senior  project 
engineer  at  Parker  Seal  Co.,  Culver  City,  CA. 
The  company  is  a  subsidiary  of  Parker-Han- 
nifin  Corp. 

William  Wiley  holds  the  post  of  division  en- 
gineer at  Master  Builders,  a  division  of  Martin- 
Marietta  in  Woburn,  MA. 


1942 


E.  Curtis  Ambler  has  retired  as  captain  of  the 
Newington  (CT)  Volunteer  Fire  Dept.  after  35 
years  of  service.  He  has  been  a  fire-engine  buff 
since  his  youth,  and  his  wife  says  of  his  retire- 
ment, "I  wonder  who'll  fix  the  trucks  now  when 
they  won't  start?"  Ambler  is  vice  president  in 
charge  of  R&D  in  the  industrial  hardware  di- 
vision of  The  Stanley  Works. 

Philip  Camp  continues  as  principal  of  Philip 
L.  Camp  Assoc,  Inc.,  Ft.  Pierce,  FL. 


1943 


Continuing  with  the  Hose  Product  Division  of 
Parkcr-Hannifin  Corp..  William  Currie  is  cur- 
rently a  chief  staff  engineer  for  the  firm  in 
Wickliffe,  OH. 

Harry  Merkel  is  president  of  Mercury  Co. 
of  Norwood,  Inc.,  Brockton,  MA,  a  subsidiary 
of  Fischbach  Corporation. 


1944 


Hal  Blake  has  been  an  hydraulic  engineer  with 
the  Bergen  County  (NJ)  Department  of  Public 
Works  since  1969.  Previously,  he  had  been  as- 
sitant  town  engineer  in  Bloomfield.  NJ,  and 
had  been  affiliated  with  Tippetts-Abbctt- 
McCarthy-Stratton  in  New  York  City,  where 
he  enjoyed  numerous  overseas  stints.  Hal  and 
his  wife,  Marge,  are  looking  forward  to  retire- 
ment in  their  passive  solar  home  in  North  Car- 
olina. 

For  the  past  \5  winters,  Sherm  Campbell  has 
served  as  a  volunteer  National  Ski  Patrolman 
near  his  home  in  Perry,  NY.  Sherm  holds  the 
post  of  R&D  manager  with  Champion  Prod- 
ucts and  travels  coast  to  coast  "endeavoring  to 
excel  in  screen  printing  on  athletic  and  campus 


sportswear."  Earlier  in  his  career,  he  worked 
on  development  of  the  first  atomic  submarines 
and  has  a  patent  on  design  of  the  Nautilus,  plus 
five  other  design  patents. 

Irving  James  Donahue,  Jr.,  of  Shrewsbury, 
MA,  a  WPI  trustee,  continues  as  president  of 
Donahue  Industries,  Inc.  and  Donahue  Inter- 
national, Inc.  His  company  has  a  product  line 
of  more  than  400  parts  used  by  grinding-wheel 
manufacturers  and  users.  Before  starting  his 
own  business  in  1957,  he  had  been  with  Carl- 
strom  Pressed  Metal,  Westboro,  Reed  &  Prince 
Mfg.  Co.  and  American  Steel  &  Wire,  Worces- 
ter. He  holds  an  MBA  from  Harvard  Business 
School  and  has  been  selectman  in  Shrewsbury, 
as  well  as  a  local  finance  committeeman,  pres- 
ident of  the  Central  Mass.  Employers  Assoc, 
and  governor  of  the  Worcester  Country  Club. 
A  past  president  of  the  WPI  Alumni  Associ- 
ation, he  received  the  Stephen  Salisbury  Award 
from  the  WPI  trustees  and  the  Herbert  F.  Tay- 
lor Award  from  the  WPI  Alumni  Association. 

Blitz  Krieger  is  still  a  nuclear  weapons  de- 
signer for  Sandia  Laboratories.  Albuquerque. 
NM.  at  their  branch  lab.  in  Livermore.  CA. 
Once  he  spent  13  months  in  Washington.  DC, 
as  a  technical  consultant  to  the  Arms  Control 
and  Disarmament  Agency  on  Project  Cloud 
Gap,  a  test  of  a  proposed  treaty  with  the  Rus- 
sians on  dismantling  nuclear  weapons.  After 
hours.  Blitz  is  involved  with  the  Episcopal 
Church  and  bird-watching. 

Eriing  Lagerholm  is  currently  a  real  estate 
counselor  with  Norwood  Group  International, 
Inc.,  in  Bedford.  NH.  Previously  he  was  with 
Cabot,  Cabot  &  Forbes  Co..  American  Ap- 
praisal Co..  Thomas  F.  McSweeney  Associates 
and  Exxon  Research  and  Engineering  Co.  Some 
Lagerholm  highlights:  "Crossed  the  Atlantic  to 
Cowes,  England  in  a  50-ft.  sloop;  dated  Ronald 
Reagan's  daughter,  Maureen,  in  London;  and 
visited  Berlin  before  'the  Wall.'"  In  1979  he 
married  Emilie  Hofmann  and  "took  on  one 
wife,  four  kids,  two  cats  and  one  dog."  The 
newlyweds  honeymooned  by  climbing  Mt. 
Olympus  in  Greece  and  cruising  around  the 
Aegean  Islands. 

Since  1967,  William  Raymond,  Jr.,  has  served 
as  chief  traffic  engineer  for  Gannett  Fleming 
Corddry  and  Carpenter,  Inc.,  Harrisburg.  PA. 
During  the  past  13  years  he  has  flown  over 
250,000  miles  for  the  firm,  including  tours  in 
Guatemala,  Ecuador,  Cameroon,  Israel  and 
Thailand,  as  well  as  to  numerous  U.S.  cities. 
He  has  been  a  member  of  the  ASCE  Com- 
mittee on  Geometries  of  Highway  Design  since 
1965.  He  was  named  president  of  the  Central 
Pennsylvania  Section  of  the  ASCE  in  1972  and 
Master  of  his  local  Masonic  Lodge  in  1974.  For 
25  years  he  has  sung  with  his  church  choir  and 
for  three  years  with  the  Harrisburg  Choral  So- 
ciety. 

Wallace  Underwood  is  now  designing  under- 
water test  equipment  with  Sippican  Ocean  Sys- 
tems in  Marion,  MA.  A  founder  of  the  WPI 
Sailing  Association,  he  is  ex-commodore  of  the 
Manchester  (MA)  Frostbite  Association,  a 
member  of  the  Corinthians  ocean  racing  club. 
Beverly  Yacht  Club  and  a  senior  member  of 
the  U.S.  Power  Squadrons.  Also  interested  in 
amateur  theater,  he  has  served  on  the  board 
of  directors  and  been  production  manager  of 
the  Monmouth  (NJ)  Players.  A  graduate  of  the 
Rhode  Island  School  of  Design.  Wally  for- 
merly designed  refrigerators  for  Westinghousc, 
ran  a  product-design  consulting  business  in 


34  WPI  JOURNAL 


Boston  and  managed  product  development  and 
plastics  research  with  American  Can.  He  has 
designed  about  100  familiar  manufactured 
products,  as  well  as  his  own  passive  solar  home. 


1945 


Robert  Edgerly  is  employed  as  a  group  leader 
of  operations  at  Grumman  Aerospace  Corp., 
Bethpage,  NY. 

John  Hyde,  senior  vice  president  of  the 
chemical  unit  of  Diamond  Shamrock  Corpo- 
ration, retired  in  August  following  30  years  of 
service.  He  entered  the  chemical  industry  im- 
mediately after  World  War  II.  During  his  ca- 
reer at  Diamond  Shamrock,  he  advanced  to 
division  operations  manager,  division  manager 
and  senior  vice  president.  He  served  in  the 
U.S.  Navy. 

Still  with  Cincinnati  Milacron-Heald  Corp., 
Worcester,  Donald  MacKay,  Jr.,  is  now  man- 
ager of  advertising  and  product  promotion. 


1946 


Robert  Bartlett  serves  as  manager  of  refriger- 
ation engineering  for  Babson  Brothers  Co. ,  Oak 
Brook,  IL. 

Alpheus  Farnsworth  is  affiliated  with  Gre- 
gory Group,  Inc.,  North  Bergen,  NJ. 

William  Grogan,  dean  of  undergraduate 
studies  at  WPI,  was  guest  speaker  at  the  Hud- 
son (MA)  Rotary  Club  annual  banquet  for  Na- 
tional Honor  Society  members  of  local  Hudson 
schools  last  spring. 

William  Jaegle  is  president  of  Marketing 
Technology,  Inc.,  Calabasas,  CA. 

Allan  Johnson  has  been  elected  to  a  four- 
year  directorship  of  Kemper,  S.A.  and  a  one- 
year  term  as  director  of  Kemper  International 
Insurance  Company.  He  joined  Kemper  in  1964 
to  establish  the  firm's  HPR  department.  He 
has  been  directing  the  activities  of  the  national- 
international  department.  He  serves  as  HPR 
officer  for  Kemper's  principal  insurance  com- 
panies and  senior  vice-president  and  director 
of  American  Protection  Insurance  Company. 
A  member  of  the  Society  of  Fire  Protection 
Engineers,  Johnson  is  also  a  registered  profes- 
sional fire  protection  engineer  in  California. 


1947 


Jacques  Metenier  holds  the  position  of  chair- 
man of  the  board  of  Delas  Weir,  an  interna- 
tional company  located  in  France,  which  is  con- 
cerned with  the  optimization  of  condensers, 
feed  water  heaters  and  heat  exchangers.  The 
firm  is  first  in  its  field  in  Europe. 


1948 


Louis  Block  and  his  son,  Richard,  are  now  in 
the  wholesale  and  importing  business  of  candy 
and  toys.  He  writes:  "We  are  moving  this  month 
into  our  new  60,000  sq.  ft.  warehouse."  Block, 
who  remarried  five  years  ago,  says  that  he  has 
seven  children  between  the  ages  of  1  and  31. 


Milton  Bradley's 
Idea  Man  Retires 

If  your  youngsters  put  a  Pac-Man  board 
game,  a  Smurf  card  game  or  the  ever- 
popular  electronic  game,  Simon,  on  their 
Christmas  lists,  you  can  thank  Jim  Hou- 
lihan, '42,  who  retired  in  June  as  vice 
president  of  R&D  at  Milton  Bradley  Co. , 
East  Longmeadow,  MA. 

As  his  career  with  MB  began  to  unfold 
nearly  40  years  ago,  Houlihan  never 
dreamed  he'd  become  the  firm's  chief  idea 
man.  "I  wanted  to  be  a  chemical  engi- 
neer," he  says.  "Following  World  War  II, 
I  joined  MB's  art  department  developing 
crayons.  Before  long,  I  transferred  over 
to  R&D  when  I  discovered  I  was  more 
interested  in  making  games  than  making 
crayons." 


For  Houlihan  the  move  was  a  good  one. 
Developing  new  games  is  big  business, 
and  he  has  the  knack  of  knowing  what  the 
game  players  of  the  world  want.  What's 
the  hottest  name  in  arcades  today?  Pac- 
Man,  of  course.  And  MB  had  the  fore- 
sight to  snare  the  contract  to  produce  the 
Pac-Man  board  game,  which  should  be  a 
hit  come  Christmas. 

What's  more,  before  any  other  toy 
company  was  interested,  MB  picked  up 
the  rights  to  produce  the  little  people 
known  as  Smurfs.  Currently,  "The  Smurfs" 
is  TV's  most  widely  watched  Saturday 
morning  cartoon  show,  and  spin-off  games 
are  now  in  the  works. 

Houlihan  also  helped  bring  out  such 
trendy  games  as  Electronic  Stratego,  Dark 
Tower,  Domination,  Knock  Knock,  and 
The  Fall  Guy — all  part  of  Milton  Brad- 
ley's latest  line  of  best-sellers. 

"I  was  responsible  for  riding  herd  on 
the  staff  as  they  created  new  games,  toys 
and  puzzles,"  he  reports.  "At  the  time  of 
my  retirement,  there  were  80  employees 
developing  non-electronic  games  and  80 
more  working  on  electronic  versions." 

Because  the  game  market  is  so  com- 
petitive (another  firm  pirated  ideas  from 
MB's  Simon  and  called  their  toy  Copy 
Cat),  Milton  Bradley  has  a  locked  security 
wing,  opened  only  to  those  who  know  a 
secret  code.  Jim  Houlihan,  of  course, 
knows  that  code  and  a  host  of  MB  trade 
secrets. 

With  his  inside  knowledge,  did  he  have 
to  go  through  a  debriefing  program  when 
he  left  Milton  Bradley? 

He  grins.  "I  guess  we  have  some  sort 
of  program  like  that." 


Frederick  Curtis,  Jr.,  holds  the  position  of 
vice  president  of  General  Dynamics,  Ft.  Worth 
Division. 

Bob  Hubley,  who  recently  retired  as  a  divi- 
sion manager  for  Western  Union  iri  Washing- 
ton, DC,  is  now  involved  with  video  advertising 
and  videotaping  weddings,  anniversaries, 
birthdays  and  reunions.  He  also  has  made  sev- 
eral videotapes  for  entertainers  for  use  in  pre- 
senting acts  to  prospective  employers. 

Richard  Seagrave  holds  the  post  of  vice  pres- 
ident of  operations  at  J.  I.  Case  Co.,  a  division 
of  Tenneco,  Inc.,  in  Racine,  WI. 


1949 


Dean  Amidon,  District  One  highway  engineer 
for  the  Massachusetts  Department  of  Public 
Works,  was  recently  elected  president  of  the 
Northeast  Association  of  State  Highway  and 
Transportation  Officials  (NASHTO).  The  as- 
sociation covers  the  six  New  England  states, 
Delaware,  Maryland,  Pennsylvania,  New  York, 
the  District  of  Columbia,  Puerto  Rico,  the  Vir- 
gin Islands  and  several  provinces  in  Canada. 
Amidon,  a  DPW  employee  for  over  three  de- 


cades, is  a  former  state  commissioner  of  public 
works  and  vice  president  of  NASHTO. 

Richard  Coughlin  has  been  elected  vice  pres- 
ident of  Boston  Edison  Company.  He  will  head 
the  new  procurement,  stores  and  service  or- 
ganization. He  has  been  director  of  the  stores 
and  service  departments  since  1972.  A  regis- 
tered professional  engineer  in  Massachusetts, 
CoughUn  joined  Boston  Edison  in  1949. 

Henry  Ezen  says  that  he  is  a  part-time  tour 
guide  for  skiing  trips  in  New  England.  Since 
1970  he  has  skied  and  hiked  twelve  times  in 
the  Alps.  He  plans  to  continue  hiking  and  skiing 
in  the  Alps  as  a  tour  guide  for  travel  agencies. 

In  May,  Charles  Gerber  was  honored  at  a 
retirement  reception  at  Mitchell  College  in  New 
London,  CT.  A  graphic  science  teacher  at  the 
college,  he  had  participated  in  30  of  Mitchell's 
38  commencement  programs.  Several  years  ago 
he  retired  from  the  Naval  Underwater  Systems 
Center.  During  his  early  retirement,  he  served 
as  a  full-time  member  of  the  college  mainte- 
nance staff,  while  continuing  to  teach  in  the 
engineering  division.  He  has  been  responsible 
for  training  an  entire  generation  of  draftsmen 
at  Electric  Boat. 

John  Hunter  has  been  promoted  to  assistant 
general  manager-engineering  at  General  Dy- 


OCTOBER  1982  35 


namics"  Electric  Boat  Division,  Groton,  CT. 
With  the  firm  since  1949.  he  has  held  various 
engineering  management  posts.  He  is  a  regis- 
tered professional  engineer  in  Connecticut  and 
the  state  of  Washington. 

Robert  Quattrochi  was  recently  reelected 
president  of  the  Countr\'  Club  of  Pittsfield,  MA. 
He  is  president  of  Petes  Chrysler-Plymouth, 
Inc.,  past  treasurer  of  the  Massachusetts  State 
Auto  Dealers  Association  and  chairman  of  the 
National  Subaru  Dealer  Advisory  Council. 

Joseph  Skidmore  serves  as  a  sales  engineer 
in  the  construction  products  division  at  Armco 
Steel.  Tacoma,  WA. 


1950 


Lawson  Hill,  Jr.,  holds  the  post  of  president 
of  British  Isles  Collection.  North  Conway.  NH. 

John  Orcutt  has  been  named  director  of  re- 
search and  development  of  the  Air  Correction 
Division  of  UOP.  Inc..  Norwalk.  CT.  The  di- 
vision designs  and  manufactures  air  pollution 
control  systems  and  equipment.  Before  joining 
UOP,  Orcutt  was  manager  of  process  devel- 
opment at  Stauffer  Chemical  Company.  He 
holds  a  PhD  in  chemical  engineering  from  the 
University  of  Delaware. 

Besides  working  full  time  in  system  engi- 
neering at  Calspan  Corporation,  Hugo  Radt, 
Jr.,  also  teaches  courses  in  flight  dynamics  and 
vehicle  dynamics  and  control  at  the  State  Uni- 
versity of  New  York  at  Buffalo. 

Tejinder  Singh  is  now  general  manager  of 
supplies  and  distribution  with  Bharat  Petro- 
leum Corporation  in  Bombay,  India.  He  writes: 
"Our  daughter  and  her  husband,  who  live  in 
the  U.S.,  recently  had  a  baby  girl."  His  address 
is;  Flat  No.  32,  lA  S.K.  Barodawala  Marg, 
Bombay  4(XMJ26,  India. 

Robert  Stewart,  a  WPI  trustee,  has  been 
elected  executive  vice  president  of  corporate 
planning  and  development  at  IC  Industries,  Inc., 
Chicago.  He  joined  the  company  in  1979  as 
senior  vice  president  of  corporate  planning  and 
development  and  is  also  a  member  of  the  Man- 
agement Policy  Committee.  Most  recently,  he 
had  been  president  of  Arlen  Realty  Corpora- 
tion, New  York  City. 


1951 


Leon  Bassett  holds  the  post  of  director  of  in- 
ternational operations  for  Skil  Corp.,  Chicago. 

William  Haslett,  Jr.,  works  as  an  engineering 
specialist  at  Fisher  Controls,  Marshalltown.  lA. 

Robert  Ripley  holds  the  post  of  new  products 
engineering  manager  of  extrusion  at  Carlon. 
Cleveland,  OH. 


1952 


Daniel  Bernatowicz  is  headquartered  in  Cleve- 
land. OH.  aschicf  of  the  power  systems  branch 
at  NASA  Lewis  Research  Center. 

Donald  Krau.vs  is  now  program  manager  for 
Raytheon  in  Portsmouth.  Rl 

A.  Theodore  Ponds  is  the  current  sales  man- 
ager of  Armco  Automctrits  in  Boulder.  CO. 


1953 


Henry  Burger  serves  as  manager  of  hotel  ser- 
vices for  Colonial  Williamsburg  Foundation, 
Williamsburg,  VA.  Formerly  he  was  a  com- 
mander with  the  U.S.  Navy. 

Currently,  Jack  Schmid  works  as  a  plant  en- 
gineer for  Great  Lakes  Chemical  Corporation 
(Velsicol  Chemical  Corp.)  in  El  Dorado,  AR. 
The  company  products  are  related  to  bromine 
and  used  to  make  medicines,  flame  retardants, 
agricultural  pesticides  and  fungicides. 

Paul  Snyder,  Jr.,  holds  the  position  of  ven- 
ture technical  manager  at  Mobil  Technical 
Services,  Inc.  He  is  headquartered  in  New  York 
City. 


1954 


Joseph  King  is  an  assistant  professor  at  Ver- 
mont Technical  College.  Randolph  Center,  VT. 
Donald  McEwan,  president  of  the  ITT 
Avionics  Division,  Nutley,  NJ,  was  feted  as 
"Man  of  the  Year"  by  the  American  Institute 
of  Aeronautics  and  Astronautics"  North  Jersev 


section  at  its  annual  award  dinner  in  Clifton. 
He  was  selected  for  the  award  for  his  role  in 
leading  the  ITT  division  in  its  acquisition  of 
two  highly  competitive  defense  contracts  in  1981 
(representing  a  potential  of  $2  billion  in  pro- 
duction business  for  North  Jersey  over  the  next 
decade).  McEwan  has  spent  his  entire  career 
at  ITT  Avionics  in  New  Jersey. 

Wesley  Wheeler's  firm.  Wesley  D.  Wheeler 
Associates,  Ltd.  (International  Maritime  Con- 
sultants), New  York  City,  has  been  named 
eastern  regional  sales  representative  for  Wart- 
sila  diesel  heavy  fuel  engines.  Wheeler  reports 
that  the  Finnish  Wartsila  Vasa  diesel  is  the  only 
medium-speed  unit  designed  from  the  bed  plate 
up  to  burn  only  heavy  fuel  and  operate  at  low 
load  or  idle  for  long  periods  of  time.  For  nearly 
a  decade  Wheeler's  staff  of  naval  architects  and 
marine  engineers  has  provided  a  range  of  ser- 
vices to  the  marine  industry,  including  vessel 
construction,  conversion  and  modification  plans. 


1955 


Kirby  Ducayet,  HI,  is  staff  vice  president  at 
Kimberly-Clark  Corp.,  Neenah,  WI. 


Geza  Ziegler: 

A  Voice  For  Freedom 

In  1957,  after  the  Soviets  tightened  their 
grip  on  Hungary.  Geza  Ziegler,  '59,  a 
Hungarian  student  at  Budapest  Polytech- 
nic Institute,  fled  to  the  United  States. 
He  entered  WPI,  where  he  later  received 
both  his  BSEE  and  MSEE. 

Away  from  the  nightmare  of  Soviet 
domination,  Ziegler  became  a  willing  par- 
ticipant in  the  American  dream,  which  he 
viewed  as  the  right  to  define  personal  goals, 
the  right  to  pursue  those  goals  and  the 
right  to  receive  recognition  for  personal 
success.  In  May,  he  was  elected  a  fellow 
of  the  Bridgeport  (CT)  Engineering  In- 
stitute (BEI),  the  highest  internal  honor 
bestowed  by  the  Institute. 

Ziegler,  who  has  also  been  named  di- 
rector of  the  Danbury  branch  of  the  eve- 
ning college,  has  been  with  BEI  as  an 
instructor  and  administrator  since  1963. 
His  fellowship  award  cited  him  for  his 
"long,  honorable  and  selfless  service  to 
the  students,  faculty  and  administration." 

It  also  stated:  "Geza  Ziegler  is  an  ex- 
cellent example  of  the  advantages  af- 
forded by  the  U.S.  to  its  newly  adopted 
citizens.  However,  such  opportunities  are 
only  attainable  by  those  who  know  how 
to  grasp  and  use  them." 

During  his  19  years  with  BEI,  Ziegler 
has  served  as  assistant  chairman  of  math- 
ematics, dean  of  the  faculty  of  the  Stam- 
ford branch  and  dean  of  college  exten- 
sion. In  his  capacity  of  dean  of  college 
extension,  he  was  the  prime  mover  in  the 
establishment  of  the  BI*J  Danburv  branch 


Named  Engineering  Fellow  at  BEI 

on  the  Western  Connecticut  State  College 
campus. 

Along  with  his  BEI  post.  Ziegler  serves 
as  director  of  manufacturing  for  Cogni- 
tronics  Corporation  in  Stamford.  He  is 
vice  president  of  Stamford's  Long  Ridge 
Volunteer  Fire  Company  and  city  repre- 
sentative to  the  Area  9  Cable  Council, 
whose  operations  committee  he  chairs. 

Actively  involved  with  educational  and 
community  activities,  as  well  as  with  his 
professional  engineering  duties,  Geza 
Ziegler  represents  what  is  good  about 
America.  Thus  it's  no  mere  coincidence 
that  he  does  voluntary  free-lance  broad- 
casting for  Radio  Free  Europe  extolling 
the  American  way  of  life. 


36  WPI  JOURNAL 


Arthur  Rudman  is  a  special  representative 
for  Franklin  Life  Insurance  Co.  He  is  located 
in  North  Anson,  ME. 


1957 


Crosby  Adams,  still  a  project  director  for  Wil- 
bur Smith  &  Assoc,  Columbia,  SC,  has  re- 
cently been  involved  with  company  projects  in 
Hong  Kong,  Norfolk,  VA,  and  Lansing,  ML 

Since  1959,  Edwin  Ahlstrom  has  served  as  a 
research  physical  scientist  at  the  U.S.  Army 
Electronics  Technology  and  Devices  Labora- 
tory at  Fort  Monmouth,  NJ.  With  the  U.S. 
Army  Reserves  for  22  years,  he  retired  as  a 
division  inspector  general. 

Saltwater  fishing  and  cross-country  skiing  are 
two  activities  enjoyed  by  Arthur  Anderson,  who 
is  chief  of  test  engineering  at  Hamilton  Stan- 
dard in  Windsor  Locks,  CT.  Active  in  his  church, 
he  has  been  Sunday  School  superintendent, 
trustee  and  a  deacon. 

Joseph  Arcari,  Ltc,  U.S.  Army,  Ret.,  is  cur- 
rently a  general  engineer  and  program  man- 
ager for  military  construction  for  the  U.S.  Army 
in  Europe.  He  likes  to  fix  old  cars. 

Raymond  Archambault  is  concerned  with 
product  operations  management  at  Digital 
Equipment  Corp.,  Merrimack,  NH.  Running 
and  amateur  theatricals  are  outside  interests. 

"Have  always  been  involved  in  all  aspects  of 
miUtary  satellite  communications,"  says  John 
Atchison,  Jr.,  a  group  leader  at  Mitre,  Bed- 
ford, MA.  He  belongs  to  the  lEE,  ARRL  and 
the  Masons. 

Adrian  Atkins,  a  registered  civil  engineer  in 
Connecticut,  holds  the  post  of  manager  of  the 
Civil  Engineering  Division  at  Aetna  Life  and 
Casualty,  Hartford,  CT.  He  also  conducts  his 
own  construction/demolition  business  and  is 
actively  engaged  in  the  design  and  selling  of 
Ward  Log  Homes. 

After  spending  23  years  with  FMC  Corp., 
Philip  Backlund  joined  Rockwell  International 
in  Troy,  MI,  in  1980.  As  manager  of  energy 
and  environmental  management,  he  is  respon- 
sible for  environmental  control  and  energy 
conservation  for  approximately  40  plants  within 
automotive  operations. 

John  Bandarra,  Jr.,  is  plant  manager  for 
Tampax,  Inc.,  in  Clarement,  NH.  He  is  active 
in  Rotary  and  the  K  of  C  and  previously  served 
on  the  board  of  directors  of  the  YMCA  and 
the  Chamber  of  Commerce. 

Currently,  Dick  Barlow  holds  the  position  of 
president  at  Bentley  Harris,  a  subsidiary  of 
Raychem,  in  Lionville,  PA.  Earlier  he  had  been 
with  the  Signal  Corps  and  GE.  He  attended 
Harvard  Business  School. 

Fred  Barry,  president  of  Valve  Compo- 
nents, Inc.,  Worcester,  has  three  sons  who  work 
in  family  businesses  and  are  "trying  to  push 
Dad  into  early  retirement."  (They  are  Wayne, 
'81,  Al,  '77,  and  Frederick,  who  graduated  from 
Worcester  State  in  1977.)  Fred  is  also  president 
of  New  England  Specialty  Nut  Co.,  Inc.  and 
Largo  Corporation. 


1958 


Robert  Bernard  is  president  of  Canaan  Com- 
puter Corporation  in  Westport,  CT. 


Lionel  Irvine  serves  as  associate  transpor- 
tation engineer  for  the  California  State  De- 
partment of  Transportation  with  headquarters 
in  Los  Angeles. 

Continuing  with  GenRad,  Inc.,  Howard 
Painter,  Jr.,  is  now  vice  president  and  general 
manager  of  the  firm  in  Phoenix. 

Stewart  Staples  was  slated  to  be  chairman  of 
the  Ladies  Professional  Golf  Association  event 
held  in  Tucson  last  summer.  Earlier  he  was 
named  tournament  chairman  of  the  $300,000 
Joe  Garagiola  Tucson  Open.  He  is  owner  of 
Staples  Building  and  Development  Co.,  Inc. 

Currently,  Andrew  Szypula  serves  as  assis- 
tant chief  engineer  for  Bethlehem  Steel  Corp. 
in  Baltimore. 

Robert  Weinberg  continues  as  president  of 
Economy  Electric  Supply,  Inc,  the  business  he 
took  over  from  his  father  16  years  ago.  The 
company,  located  in  Manchester,  CT,  is  one 
of  the  country's  largest  single-distribution  cen- 
ters. 


1959 


Robert  Basil  has  been  appointed  marketing 
manager  of  new  products  for  Waring  Products 
Division  in  New  Hartford,  CT.  He  is  respon- 
sible for  the  division's  marketing  efforts  in  the 
development  of  new  products.  Prior  to  joining 
Waring,  Basil  was  founder  and  president  of  his 
own  consulting  firm  which  specialized  in  mar- 
ket development  and  investment  activities  for 
clients  within  the  consumer  products  and 
chemical  industries. 

Richard  Bourne  is  general  supervisor  at  Ko- 
dak Apparatus  Division,  Rochester,  NY. 

Normand  Depratti  holds  the  position  of  R&D 
manager  of  electronics  for  American  Optical 
Corp.  He  is  headquartered  in  Keene,  NH. 

John  Gale  is  a  senior  program  manager  for 
AVCO  Systems  Division,  Wilmington,  MA. 
He  lives  in  Sudbury. 

Dr.  Frederick  Lutze,  Jr.,  is  a  professor  in 
the  department  of  aerospace  and  ocean  engi- 
neering at  Virginia  Polytechnic  Institute, 
Blacksburg,  VA. 

Alexander  Swetz,  Jr.,  works  as  a  division 
substation  engineer  for  Public  Service  Electric 
&  Gas  in  Clifton,  NJ. 

Winthrop  Wassenar,  assistant  director  of  the 
physical  plant  at  Williams  College  since  1964, 
will  become  director  in  December.  A  regis- 
tered professional  engineer,  he  is  also  a  mem- 
ber of  the  American  Arbitration  Association, 
called  upon  to  arbitrate  disputes  that  arise  dur- 
ing construction  projects.  While  at  Williams, 
he  has  supervised  many  major  construction 
projects. 

John  Wolfe  continues  with  EG  &  G  Sealol, 
North  American  Operations,  Warwick,  RI. 


1960 


George  Beebe  is  a  staff  engineer  for  MIT  Lin- 
coln Lab.,  Lexington,  MA.  He  writes:  "Will 
return  from  Kwajalein  to  Massachusetts  in 
June." 

Donaldson  Dow  serves  as  a  senior  analytical 
engineer  at  Perry  Oceanographies,  Inc.,  Ri- 
viera Beach,  FL. 

Russell  Fransen  is  a  consulting  engineer  and 


land  surveyor  for  Fransen  Consultants,  Nor- 
wich, CT. 

William  Kerr  serves  as  a  project  manager  at 
Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  in  East  Hartford,  CT. 

Donald  MacMillan  is  a  technical  manager  at 
GCA  Corporation,  BurHngton  Division,  Bed- 
ford, MA. 

Lt.  Col.  Robert  Mulholland,  Jr.,  writes  that 
he  is  director  of  procurement  for  R&D  for  the 
U.S.  Army  at  Ft.  Monmouth,  NJ. 

Dr.  Charles  Stevens  was  recently  appointed 
dean  of  the  School  of  Engineering  Manage- 
ment and  Technology  at  Purdue  University 
(Calumet)  in  Indiana.  Previously,  he  was  act- 
ing dean  of  the  Southern  Technical  Institute, 
the  engineering  technology  division  of  Georgia 
Institute  of  Technology,  and  before  that  he  had 
served  on  the  faculty  and  administrative  staff 
of  Southern  Tech  in  Marietta,  GA.  A  regis- 
tered professional  engineer,  he  has  conducted 
consulting  assignments  for  such  industries  as 
the  Bendix  Corporation,  Caterpillar  Tractor  Co. 
and  Hallmark  Cards. 

Jon  Thorson  is  an  advisory  engineer  for  IBM 
in  Kingston,  NY. 


1961 


Roger  Faulk  has  been  appointed  assistant  di- 
rector in  the  casualty-property  commercial  lines 
department  at  the  Travelers  Insurance  Com- 
panies in  Hartford,  CT.  He  joined  the  com- 
panies in  1971  as  an  underwriter. 

William  Holmes  holds  the  post  of  manager 
of  product  marketing  at  Wyman-Gordon  Co., 
Grafton,  MA. 

Thomas  Maloney,  Jr.,  a  vice  president  of 
E.F.  Hutton  and  manager  of  the  firm's  Bur- 
Hngton (MA)  office,  has  been  named  to  Hut- 
ton's  1982  President's  Club.  Appointment  to 
the  group,  based  on  individual  leadership  per- 
formance, is  awarded  to  only  25  managers  from 
the  total  of  320  in  Hutton's  branch  office  sys- 
tem. Maloney  joined  Hutton  in  1975. 

Paul  McCarthy  holds  the  position  of  district 
manager  at  New  England  Telephone  in  Fram- 
ingham,  MA. 

Yesugey  Oktay  has  been  promoted  to  divi- 
sion head  of  mechanical  and  structural  engi- 
neering at  Boston  Edison  Company. 

Alan  Roseen  serves  as  a  senior  engineer  at 
GE  in  Utica,  NY.  He  resides  in  Frankfort. 

Edward  Sundburg  was  recently  named  as  a 
worldwide  business  manager  at  Norton  Indus- 
trial Ceramics  Division,  Worcester.  Previously 
business  manager  of  advanced  ceramics,  he  will 
now  be  responsible  for  business  operations  of 
Crystar(R)  recrystallized  silicon  carbide  elec- 
tronic components  throughout  the  world. 


1962 


William  Brutsch  was  recently  appointed  direc- 
tor and  chief  engineer  of  the  Metropolitan  Dis- 
trict Commission  Water  Division  in  Boston. 
He  supervises  the  division's  $11  million  budget, 
its  $100  million  capital  program  and  400  em- 
ployees. A  major  in  the  U.S.A.F.  Reserve,  he 
also  belongs  to  the  National  and  the  Massa- 
chusetts Society  of  Professional  Engineers. 

Robert  Chapin  has  been  with  the  New  York 
State  Dept.  of  Transportation  for  20  years. 


OCTOBER  1982  37 


Formerly  with  GTE  Sylvania.  David  France 

is  now  technical  director  for  UNNEX.  Salem, 
NH.  He  resides  in  Hillsboro. 

Lewis  Huntoon  has  been  promoted  to  man- 
ager of  purchasing  and  production  services  at 
Hitox  Corporation  of  America  and  No%a  Oil 
Field  Chemicals,  a  division  of  Hitox. 

Dr.  John  Lukens  serves  as  vice  president  of 
Geodata  Systems  International  in  Nairobi, 
Kenya.  He  received  his  PhD  from  Cornell. 

Bernard  Meister  has  been  advanced  to  as- 
sociate scientist  at  the  Dow  Chemical  Co., 
Midland,  MI. 

Philip  Pilibosian  is  general  manager  at  Pa- 
cific Telephone  in  Los  Angeles. 

Eugene  Rheault  is  now  a  principal  engineer 
at  International  Laser  Systems,  Orlando.  FL. 

Dr.  John  Tien,  professor  of  metallurgy  and 
director  of  the  Center  for  Strategic  Materials, 
Henry  Krumb  School  of  Mines,  Columbia  Uni- 
versity, was  coauthor  of  'Metallurgy  in  China 
Today  and  the  First  U.S. A. -China  Bilateral 
Metallurgical  Conference,"  which  appeared  in 
the  March  issue  of  the  Journal  of  Metals. 


1963 


Earl  Fratus  serves  as  project  manager  at  Shel- 
don L.  Pollack  Corp.  He  is  located  in  Houston. 

Dennis  Heath  is  supervisor  of  production  en- 
gineering for  GE  in  Plainville,  CT. 

Dr.  Richard  Kashnow  continues  with  GE  in 
Cleveland,  OH.  He  is  now  product  general 
manager. 

Robert  Jamaitis  has  been  appointed  vice 
president  of  manufacturing  at  United  Tech- 
nologies' Norden  Systems.  He  joined  Norden 
in  1963  and  most  recently  served  as  operations 
manager.  He  holds  an  MBA  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Bridgeport. 

Steve  Mozden  has  been  appointed  to  the  town 
appropriations  committee  in  East  Longmea- 
dow,  MA.  He  is  a  senior  engineer  in  prelimi- 
nary design  at  Hamilton  Standard  and  recently 
received  his  MBA  from  Western  New  England 
College. 


1964 


John  Arserio,  Jr.,  serves  as  New  England  area 
sales  manager  at  Hewlett-Packard  Co.,  Lex- 
ington. MA    He  resides  in  Andover. 

Frederick  Borgeson  holds  the  position  of  di- 
rector of  engineering  at  Aydin  Microwave,  San 
Diego. 

Walter  (ionia  serves  as  marketing  manager 
for  industrial  products  at  Johnson,  a  division 
of  UOP,  Inc  .  St    Paul.  MN. 

Philip  Johnson  works  for  Electro  Mechanics, 
a  subsidiary  of  Combustion  Engineering  in  New 
Britam.  CT. 

Charles  Lombardo  is  president  of  Pctro-Art 
Ltd.,  Inc  .  Ircnlon.  NJ. 

Bruce  Ochieano  serves  as  director  and  as- 
sistant treasurer  at  Advanced  Micro  Devices, 
Inc  ,  Sunnyvale.  (A. 

Richard  Parzuchowski  holds  the  position  of 
vice  president  at  Chromalloy  R&T,  (Orange- 
burg, NY 

David  .Stone  is  manager  of  engineering  for 
the  Power  Breaker  Division  of  Sicmens-Allis. 
Inc.,  Jackson,  MS. 


Pete  Tancredi  holds  the  position  of  vice  pres- 
ident at  Camp  Dresser  &  McKee ,  Walnut  Creek , 
CA. 

John  Wetherell  is  engineering  and  opera- 
tions manager  for  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank 
of  Boston. 


1965 


Marvin  Berger  has  formed  Adelphi  Manage- 
ment Services,  a  consulting  firm  in  Bedford, 
NH.  The  firm  aids  small  and  medium-sized 
companies  in  solving  operational  problems. 
Previously,  Berger  was  vice  president  and  gen- 
eral manager  of  the  Chancellor  Equipment  Co., 
and  served  in  sales,  marketing  and  manage- 
ment posts  at  IBM. 

Continuing  with  BF  Goodrich  Company, 
Akron,  OH,  Francis  Cantello  is  currently  a 
technical  manager  for  the  firm  in  Aukland,  New 
Zealand. 

David  Clayton  is  the  senior  vice  president  of 
finance  at  Trans  Ocean  Leasing  Corp.  in  San 
Bruno,  CA. 

Jim  Fee  has  joined  Contrex,  Inc.,  Burling- 
ton, MA,  a  newly  formed  company  that  de- 
velops products  which  will  apply  artificial  in- 
telligence and  machine  vision  to  the  inspection 
process  in  manufacturing  operations.  He  is  sales 
and  marketing  manager. 

Nicholas  Gallinaro  was  coauthor  of  "Fabri- 
cated Valves  Work  for  Sasol  II,"  which  was 
published  in  the  April  issue  of  Welding  Design 
&  Fabrication. 

David  Geiger  serves  as  manufacturing  man- 
ager at  The  Torrington  Co.,  Torrington,  CT. 
He  has  an  MS  in  management  from  RPI. 

Donald  Gregoire  works  as  an  electromag- 
netic systems  engineer  for  IBM  in  Owego,  NY. 

Charles  Hunnicutt  serves  as  a  department 
head  for  Bell  Telephone  Labs,  in  Naperville, 
IL. 

Robert  Klauber  is  now  with  Volt  Technical 
Services,  New  York  City.  In  March  he  received 
his  PhD  from  Virginia  Polytechnic  Institute  & 
State  University. 

Philip  Nims  is  chief  of  product  development 
at  Leesona  in  Warwick,  RI. 

Richard  Seaver  holds  the  post  of  project 
manager  for  Building  Automation  Systems, 
Farmington,  CT. 


1966 


Dr.  Andrew  Fish,  Jr.,  assistant  professor  of 
electrical  engineering  at  the  University  of  Hart- 
ford, co-chaired  the  nonlinear  group  at  the  1982 
American  Control  Conference  in  June  in  Ar- 
lington, VA.  He  presented  a  paper  at  that  con- 
ference, as  well  as  other  papers  at  recent  sim- 
ilar conferences  in  Raleigh,  NC,  and  New  York. 

Dr  John  Lauterbach  is  an  analytical  re- 
search division  head  for  Brown  &  Williamson 
Tobacco.  Louisville.  KY. 

John  Morawski,  still  with  Niagara  Mohawk 
Power,  is  now  associate  senior  project  control 
engineer  for  the  company  in  Syracuse,  NY. 

George  Ordway  is  president  of  C.  G.  Bosl- 
wick  Co.  and  of  Bostco  Industries,  Hartford, 
CT. 

Donald  Petersen,  Jr.,  is  working  in  the  dis- 
play products  area  for  IBM  in  Kingston,  NY. 


He  recently  moved  to  Woodstock,  NY,  from 
Miami. 

Robert  Plum  is  the  principal  engineer  at  Con- 
verse Consultants,  Seattle,  WA. 

Anthony  Sacovitch  serves  as  chief  engineer 
at  Wright  Machine  Corp.,  Worcester. 

Tod  Wicker  continues  as  manager  of  finan- 
cial projects  for  the  Public  Service  Co.  of  New 
Hampshire  in  Manchester.  He  holds  an  MBA 
from  Northeastern,  is  married  and  the  father 
of  two  sons,  Eric  and  Tom. 


1967 


Charles  Bergeron  continues  as  supervisor  of 
nuclear  safety  at  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston. 

Charles  Case  holds  the  post  of  department 
manager  at  Raytheon  in  Sudbury.  MA. 

Roger  Daugherty  has  been  named  vice  pres- 
ident of  corporate  development  for  SelectTV, 
Marina  Del  Rey,  CA.  Formerly  he  was  vice 
president  of  management  systems.  In  his  new 
post,  he  will  be  in  charge  of  technology  plan- 
ning and  development  in  the  area  of  home 
communications  and  entertainment. 

Roy  Fedotoff  is  employed  as  a  supervising 
engineer  at  Brown  and  Caldwell,  Consulting 
Engineers,  in  Walnut  Creek,  CA. 


1968 


Paul  Arruda  is  an  area  technical  superinten- 
dent for  Du  Pont  in  Beaumont,  TX. 

William  Belisle  is  still  training  manager  at 
Airesearch  Mfg.  Co.  in  Torrance,  CA.  In  March 
he  received  a  certificate  in  personnel  manage- 
ment from  UCLA. 

Joseph  Borbone  is  a  project  engineer  for 
Warner  &  Swasey  Co.,  Grinding  Wheel  Di- 
vision, in  Worcester. 

John  Cyranski  is  now  an  assistant  professor 
in  the  department  of  physics  at  Hobart  and 
William  Smith  Colleges,  Geneva,  NY. 

John  Elphinstone  is  manager  of  cost  account- 
ing at  L'eggs  Products,  Inc. ,  in  Winston-Salem, 
NC. 

After  eight  years  with  the  Connecticut  De- 
partment of  Public  Utility  Control  Authority, 
last  November  Rob  Gallo  joined  American 
Water  Works  Service  Co.,  Haddon  Heights, 
NJ,  where  he  is  director  of  rates  and  revenue. 

Mark  Hubelbank  holds  the  post  of  vice  pres- 
ident of  Cardio  Data  Corp.,  Marlboro,  MA. 

Paul  Larini  has  been  named  an  associate  of 
the  Society  of  Actuaries.  He  is  the  manager  of 
individual  reinsurance  services  at  State  Mutual 
in  Worcester  and  has  an  MS  degree  in  actuarial 
science  from  Northeastern. 

Israel  Mac  wrote  "Atlanta  and  Transporta- 
tion: Entering  the  New  Decade"  for  the  April 
issue  of  ITE  Journal. 

William  O'Neil  now  works  in  project  control 
for  Union  Carbide  in  Oak  Ridge,  TN. 

Raymond  Racine  has  been  named  assistant 
manager  of  the  Cool  Water  Coal  G'asification 
Program  in  Texaco's  Alternate  Energy  De- 
partment. With  headquarters  in  Harrison,  NY, 
Racine  is  responsible  for  coordinating  Texaco's 
engineering,  construction  and  operations  ac- 
tivities in  the  $.^(M)-million  program 

Robert  Woog  is  district  data  systems  man- 
ager for  AT&T  Long  Lines,  Morristown,  NJ. 


)8  WPI  JOURNAL 


1969 


James  Atkinson  is  now  engaged  in  the  practice 
of  law  at  50  Milk  St.,  Boston,  and  in  South 
Harwich,  MA. 

John  Connell,  Jr.,  has  been  appointed  as- 
sistant director,  strategic  planning,  automa- 
tion, in  the  data  processing  and  management 
services  department  of  Aetna  Insurance  Com- 
pany. 

J.  B.  Flynn  received  his  MBA  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  Lausanne  in  Switzerland  last  year. 
He  is  national  sales  manager  of  Commercial 
Financial  Service,  General  Electric  Credit  Cor- 
poration, Stamford,  CT. 

James  Haury  serves  as  a  director  of  manu- 
facturing at  Farrel  Company,  Ansonia,  CT. 

Larry  Katzman,  president  of  Thermal  Data 
Corporation  of  Newtonville,  MA,  was  a  sem- 
inar discussion  leader  and  workshop  director 
at  the  NEFI  Sales  Direction  Seminars  held  in 
Waltham,  MA,  and  Concord,  NH,  in  January. 
He  spoke  on  "Effectively  Opposing  Natural 
Gas  (and  Electric  Heat)  Competition." 

Richard  Palm  continues  with  Digital  Equip- 
ment Corp.  He  is  now  the  professional  soft- 
ware service  business  manager  for  the  company 
in  Waltham,  MA. 

Raymond  Stanley  serves  as  engineering  su- 
pervisor at  General  Dynamics-Electric  Boat  in 
Groton,  CT. 


1970 


MARRIED:  Lilhan  M.  Peplau  and  Craig  D. 
Olmsted  in  Lexington,  MA,  on  June  12,  1982. 
The  bride,  a  free-lance  graphic  artist,  gradu- 
ated from  UConn.  Olmsted  holds  master's  de- 
grees in  engineering  and  management  and  is 
employed  at  Chas.  T.  Main,  Inc.,  Boston.  . 

John  Boyd  works  as  a  technical  marketing 
supervisor  at  Hewlett-Packard,  Waltham,  MA. 

Lawrence  Cohen  has  rejoined  Cavedon 
Chemical  Co.,  Inc.,  Woonsocket,  RI,  where 
he  is  assistant  to  the  president.  He  will  be  re- 
sponsible for  directing  R&D  activities  and 
overseeing  manufacturing  and  quality  control. 
Previously,  he  was  a  research  chemist  at  Union 
Carbide  and  Kendall  Company. 

John  Ducimo  serves  as  manager  of  reclaim 
systems  for  Nelmor  Co.,  Inc.,  North  Uxbridge, 
MA. 

Dom  Forcella  is  one  of  two  Yale  graduate 
students  who  have  been  studying  possible  uses 
of  some  town-owned  property  in  Waterford, 
CT.  The  town  study  is  a  requirement  for  his 
master's  degree  in  environmental  studies. 

Robert  Grillo  has  been  hired  as  an  assistant 
engineer  by  the  City  of  Willimantic,  CT.  For 
the  past  five  years  he  has  served  as  senior  trans- 
portation planner  for  the  Nashua,  NH,  Re- 
gional Planning  Commission. 

Robert  Kenney  has  joined  Vermont  Yankee 
Nuclear  Power  Corp.  He  resides  in  Keene,  NH. 

Raymond  Pajer  serves  as  a  senior  research 
engineer  at  Smith-Corona  in  the  R&D  lab.  in 
Newtown,  CT. 

Randolph  Sablich  currently  is  director  of 
subcontracts  business  operations  at  Grumman 
Aerospace,  Bethpage,  NY. 

Anthony  Toscano  is  now  a  senior  project 
manager  for  GE's  Environmental  Services,  Inc., 
Lebanon,  PA. 


Frank  Zone,  Jr.,  is  a  staff  engineer  for  Riley 
Stoker  in  Worcester. 


1971 


Richard  Arena  serves  as  regional  sales  manager 
for  Weber  Metals,  Farmington  Hills,  MI. 

Paul  Ash,  director  of  professional  personnel 
and  staff  development  in  Wellesley,  Mass. 
schools,  recently  received  his  PhD  in  educa- 
tional administration  and  supervision  from 
Boston  State  College.  He  has  his  master's  de- 
gree in  teaching  from  the  University  of  Mas- 
sachusetts in  Amherst  and  a  certificate  of  ad- 
vanced study  from  the  Harvard  University 
Graduate  School  of  Education. 

John  Giordano  has  been  promoted  to  assis- 
tant vice  president  in  the  management  science 
section  of  the  corporate  finance  group  at  Rhode 
Island  Hospital  Trust  National  Bank,  West 
Warwick,  RI.  Before  joining  the  firm  in  1970, 
he  was  with  Old  Stone  Bank.  Last  year  he  served 
as  treasurer  of  the  New  England  Economic 
Project. 

Mathew  Gluckson  holds  the  post  of  vice  pres- 
ident at  Sunrise  Knitwear  Co.,  Inc.,  New  York 
City.  He  and  his  wife,  Judy,  have  two  children 
and  reside  in  White  Plains,  NY. 

Michael  Hitchko  is  with  Chas.  T.  Main,  Inc., 
Boston. 

Chris  Johnson  has  been  named  chief  of  the 
radioisotope  group  at  Letterman  Army  Insti- 
tute of  Research,  San  Francisco.  His  wife, 
Karen,  is  working  in  microbiology  at  Letter- 
man  Army  Medical  Center. 

Emiie  Levasseur  holds  the  position  of  pro- 
cess engineering  manager  at  King-Seeley  Ther- 
mos Co.,  Norwich,  CT. 

Dr.  Richard  Lindsay  was  co-editor  of  a  book 
entitled  Grinding  Technology  and  Trouble- 
shooting published  by  the  Society  of  Manufac- 
turing Engineers,  Dearborn,  MI,  in  January. 

Currently,  Joseph  Najemy  serves  as  presi- 
dent of  Solar  Marketing  Associates,  Inc., 
Worcester. 

Kevin  O'Connell  works  as  a  staff  engineer  at 
Arkwright-Boston  Insurance,  a  division  of  Fac- 
tory Mutual,  in  Greenwich,  CT. 

Francis  Scricco  has  been  appointed  general 
manager  of  the  GE  Room  Air  Conditioner  De- 
partment, Louisville,  KY.  After  six  years  as  a 
management  consultant  with  the  Boston  Con- 
sulting Group,  he  joined  GE  in  1979  as  man- 
ager of  strategy  development  for  consumer 
products  at  corporate  headquarters  in  Fair- 
field, CT. 

Norman  Sousa,  Jr.,  serves  as  vice  president 
of  Sousa  Corp.,  West  Hartford,  CT. 

Thornton  Waite  is  a  project  engineer  at 
EG&G,  Inc.,  Idaho  Falls,  ID. 

Dana  Worthley  is  an  associate  engineer  at 
Fram  Corporation.  He  is  located  in  East  Prov- 
idence, RI. 

Michael  Zarrilli  holds  the  position  of  vice 
president  at  Manufacturers  Hanover  Trust  Co., 
New  York  City. 


1972 


Jared  Bruckner  is  chairman  of  the  mathematics 
and  applied  science  department  at  Atlantic 


Union  College,  South  Lancaster,  MA. 

Samuel  Cuscovitch  has  been  appointed  as- 
sistant director  of  telecommunications  ser- 
vices, information  services,  in  the  resources  and 
services  division  of  Connecticut  General  Life 
Insurance  Company.  He  joined  information 
services  in  1976  as  senior  data  communications 
analyst  and  was  named  senior  technical  con- 
sultant in  1980.  In  1974  he  received  his  master's 
in  information  sciences  from  the  Hartford 
Graduate  Center. 

John  Ferraro  has  been  promoted  to  super- 
visor of  generation  electrical  engineering  at 
Northeast  Utihties,  Hartford,  CT.  He  began 
as  an  assistant  engineer  in  the  protective  re- 
laying department  at  the  company's  Berlin  gen- 
eral offices  in  1972.  A  member  of  IEEE,  he  is 
also  a  registered  professional  engineer  in  Con- 
necticut. 

Joseph  Gotta  was  recently  promoted  to  east- 
ern regional  sales  manager  for  Galileo  Electro- 
Optics  Corp.  He  will  be  responsible  for  all  sales 
activity  within  the  eastern  part  of  the  U.S.  and 
Canada. 

David  Horrocks  serves  as  facilities  engineer- 
ing manager  at  The  Foxboro  (MA)  Company. 

Currently,  Stephen  Joseph  holds  the  post  of 
manager  of  New  England  Telephone,  Boston. 

Vahe  Krikorian  is  manager  of  manufacturing 
quality  assurance  at  Digital,  Marlboro,  M.A. 

Thomas  Murphy  is  regional  sales  manager 
for  Filterite,  a  subsidiary  of  Brunswick  Cor- 
poration located  in  Timonium,  MD. 

Gary  Rand  currently  works  as  a  project  en- 
gineer for  Xylogics,  Inc.,  Burlington,  MA. 

Thomas  Reynolds  is  supervisor  of  the  Cor- 
porate Internal  Audit  Department  at  Occiden- 
tal Petroleum  Corp.,  Houston,  TX. 

Dr.  Kenneth  Wadland  continues  with  Wad- 
land  Software  Consulting,  Fitchburg,  MA. 


1973 


MARRIED:  Bruce  J.  Foster  to  Melissa  S. 
Kirchner  in  Dalton,  MA,  on  May  22,  1982.  She 
graduated  from  Bryant  College,  Smithfield,  RI, 
and  is  a  computer  graphics  secretary  for  GE  in 
Pittsfield,  MA.  Foster  is  a  microprocessor  de- 
sign engineer  at  GE Michael  L.  Hetzel  and 

Kathleen  E.  Williamson  in  Cape  Elizabeth,  ME, 
on  May  1,  1982.  She  graduated  from  SUNY  at 
Oswego,  did  graduate  work  at  Cornell  Uni- 
versity, and  now  manages  a  gift  store.  The 
bridegroom  is  a  reliability  engineering  special- 
ist for  Data  General  Corp.,  Westbrook,  ME. 

David  Bedard  holds  the  post  of  B  Company 
Commander  for  the  U.S.  Army.  He  resides  in 
Edge  wood,  MD. 

Dennis  Beliveau  is  employed  as  manager  of 
product  control  for  rotating  parts  at  GE's  Gas 
Turbine  Division  in  Schenectady,  NY. 

James  Davis  manages  technical  services  for 
the  coal  products  group  at  Wen-Don  Corp., 
Roanoke,  VA. 

Ralph  Desmond  is  starting  the  second  year 
with  his  own  computer-education  firm,  Des- 
mond &  Associates,  Boston,  MA.  He  also 
teaches  at  UMass  in  Boston.  Last  December 
he  spoke  on  entry-level  DP  training  at  a  na- 
tional conference:  Data  Training,  '81. 

George  Harris  is  employed  as  a  senior  hard- 
ware engineer  at  Gould  Inc.-Modicon  Division 
in  Andover,  MA. 

Herbert  Hedberg  serves  as  vice  president  of 


OCTOBER  1982  39 


operations  at  Autochrom,  Inc.,  Milford,  MA. 

Steven  Jaffe  is  employed  as  a  senior  field 
representative  at  Hamilton  Standard  in  Hol- 
land. 

Stephen  Kaminski  works  as  an  assistant  en- 
gineer for  New  Hampshire  Electric  Coopera- 
tive, Inc.,  in  Plymouth. 

Basil  Karanikos  is  employed  as  a  senior  elec- 
trical engineer  at  Sweetheart  Plastics,  Inc., 
Wilmington,  MA. 

Robert  Kibler,  still  with  Rodney  Hunt  Co., 
Orange,  MA,  is  currently  quality  assurance 
manager  for  the  firm. 

Donaid  Kray  serves  as  a  development  ad- 
ministrator at  Aetna  Life  &  Casualty.  Hart- 
ford. 

Continuing  with  Raytheon  Service  Co. ,  John 
Manzo  serves  as  general  manager  of  the  com- 
pany's Mid-Atlantic  systems  facility  in  Mount 
Laurel,  NJ. 

William  Nutter  is  now  data  processing  sys- 
tem (DPS)  STS-3  flow  lead  engineer  at  Rock- 
well International,  Kennedy  Space  Center  in 
Florida.  Besides  being  responsible  for  DPS 
planning  and  scheduling,  he  is  single-point  con- 
tact for  all  DPS  activities. 

Thomas  Savage  works  as  a  market  devel- 
opment specialist  at  GE  Plastics  in  Louisville, 
KY.  The  Savages  have  three  children. 

Thomas  Szatkowski  is  an  attorney  with  Cra- 
vath,  Swaine  &  Moore  in  New  York  City. 

Now  with  Fenn  Manufacturing.  John  Taylor 
holds  the  post  of  project  engineer  in  Newing- 
ton,  CT. 

A.  Richard  Urjil,  Jr.,  formerly  with  the  Borg 
Warner-Morse  Chain  Division,  is  now  a  sales 
manager  for  Lament  &  Getrag  Gear  Co. 

James  Viveiros  works  as  a  product  marketing 
engineer  in  the  Colorado  Springs  Division  of 
Hewlett-Packard  in  Colorado. 

Currently,  Mary  Zoeller  is  employed  as  a 
product  manager  at  Hewlett-Packard  Com- 
pany, San  Diego,  CA. 


1974 


BORN:  to  Judy  and  James  W.  Bowen  a  daugh- 
ter, Margaret  Ann.  on  April  16,  1982.  Mar- 
garet has  a  sister,  Andrea,  4,  and  a  brother, 
Christian.  2.  Jim  is  with  Pratt  &  Whitney  Air- 
craft. Government  Products  Division,  West 
Palm  Beach,  FL.  ...  to  Mr.  and  Mrs,  Lee  D. 
Turner  a  daughter,  Kathleen  Elizabeth,  on 
March  21,  1982. 

Roger  Broeker,  Jr.,  serves  as  a  senior  in- 
strument design  engineer  for  Crawford  &  Rus- 
sell, Inc    He  is  located  in  Houston. 

Wayne  Bryant  is  now  manager  of  Host  Com- 
puter group  at  Teradyne,  Boston. 

Recently  .Steve  Dacri  performed  at  the  Magic 
Castle  m  Hollywood,  with  Barbara  Mandrell 
(also  in  Hollywood),  on  the  "Good  Day"  TV 
show  in  Boston  and  with  Robert  Klein  in  Aca- 
pulco,  Mexico. 

.Stephen  Engel  works  as  a  project  engineer 
at  Grumman  Aerospace  Corp. ,  Bclhpage,  NY. 

David  Gerth  is  involved  with  financial  plan- 
ning at  Computcrvision  Corporation  in  Bed- 
ford. MA. 

Formerly  with  California  Pacific  Utilities. 
David  Gracie  is  currently  employed  as  a  project 
manager  for  Levi  Strauss  &  Co..  San  Fran- 
cisco. 

Michael  Hartnett  has  been  named  director 


Tee  for  Two — 
And,  Maybe,  Five! 

His  oldest  son,  Joey,  5,  can  already  hit  a 
golf  ball  50  yards,  Jack  Gale,  "70,  reports 
with  parental  pride.  His  twin  sons,  Mi- 
chael and  Daniel.  3.  cannot  match  their 
big  brother's  swing,  but  it's  a  safe  bet  that 
they  will  take  a  liking  to  the  little  white 
ball.  If  golf  genes  can  be  inherited,  surely 
the  sons  of  Jack  and  Mary  Carr  Gale  have 
them  in  generous  supply. 

Take  Jack,  for  instance.  Golf  has  been 
his  life.  A  member  of  the  Professional 
Golfers'  Association,  he's  served  as  a  pro 
at  Worcester's  Green  Hill  Country  Club, 
Holden  Hills  and  the  Rochester  (NH) 
Country  Club.  This  year  he  became  pro 
at  Tatnuck  Country  Club,  introducing  the 
club  to  its  first  pro-member  tournament. 

Take  Mary.  She's  won  the  New  Hamp- 
shire women's  championship  twice.  This 


summer  she  was  champion  of  the  Worces- 
ter County  Women's  Golf  Association. 
Her  brother  is  Joe  Carr,  the  current  New 
England  PGA  champion. 

When  Jack  invited  Mary  to  join  him  for 
the  Pro-Lady  Championship  in  1978  and 
1980,  they  won  both  times.  In  1973  he  led 
his  team  to  victory  in  a  pro-member  club 
tournament  in  Melbourne,  FL.  Since  that 
time,  he  has  often  played  the  winter  golf 
circuit  in  Florida. 

Jack,  the  son  of  Joe  Gale.  ME  labo- 
ratory technician  at  WPI,  caught  the  golf 
bug  late.  "But  once  I  started  playing  in 
my  mid-teens,  I  was  hooked."  At  WPI  he 
captained  the  golf  team.  "When  I  grad- 
uated, there  weren't  many  jobs  for  me- 
chanical engineers.  I  loved  golf.  I  decided 
to  turn  pro." 

Teenage  boys  often  dream  about  be- 
coming professional  athletes.  Jack  Gale 
dreamed,  too.  The  difference  is,  he  made 
his  dreams  come  true. 


of  research  of  The  Torrington  Co.,  where  he 
will  be  responsible  for  development  of  new 
products  and  materials,  as  well  as  manufactur- 
ing processes.  With  a  PhD  from  the  University 
of  Connecticut,  he  joined  Torrington  in  1972 
as  a  project  engineer.  Since  1980  he  has  been 
assistant  director  of  research.  The  author  of 
several  scientific  papers,  Hartnett  has  intro- 
duced state  of  the  art,  computer  based  tech- 
niques for  advancing  the  design  and  application 
of  rolling  element  bearings. 

Lawrence  Hunter  holds  the  post  of  senior 
engineer  at  Westinghouse  Electric,  Baltimore. 
He  resides  in  Glen  Burnie. 

James  Kennedy  is  a  hurricane  planner  with 
Civil  Defense  in  Hawaii. 

Jim  Kudzal  has  received  his  master  of  en- 
gineering administration  degree  from  The 
George  Washington  University.  Jim,  who  also 
holds  an  MS  in  physics,  is  employed  as  a  tech- 
nical manager  by  the  U.S.  Navy  in  Washing- 
ton, DC.  He  recently  won  a  trophy  for  out- 
standing performance  in  karate. 

Fr.  Victor  Melehoy  (formerly  Melechow)  is 
now  a  priest  at  the  Holy  Resurrection  Russian 
Orthodox  Church  in  Worcester. 

Robert  Praino,  Jr.,  who  resides  in  West- 
wood.  MA,  works  in  R&D  and  film  manufac- 
turing development  at  Polaroid,  where  he  is  a 
senior  engineer. 

S.  Scott  Rine  serves  as  a  deputy  equal  op- 
portunity training  officer  for  the  Navy.  De- 
partment of  Defense,  Boston. 

Joe  Strempek  continues  as  a  field  service  en- 
gineer for  Babcock  &  Wilcox.  He  just  com- 
pleted the  start-up  of  a  450-megawatt  lignite- 
fired  utility  power  plant  where  he  was  lead  en- 
gineer for  a  $2(K)-million  contract  which  in- 
cluded the  boiler  electrostatic  precipitator  and 
wct-limcstone  scrubber  systems. 

Richard  Takanen  holds  the  position  of  man- 
ager of  shop  operations  at  GE  in  Cincinnati, 
OH 

Jay  Thayer  has  been  elected  president  of  the 
Jaycces  in  Westboro,  MA.  He  is  an  assistant 


project  manager  for  the  Yankee  Atomic  Elec- 
tric Co.  in  Rowe. 

Craig  Tyler  was  recently  named  a  military 
sales  engineer  for  R.F.  Cable  Products  Divi- 
sion of  Times  Fiber  Communications,  Inc.  For- 
merly he  was  with  Tuttle  &  Bailey  Co.,  a  man- 
ufacturer of  products  for  the  energy  industry. 
Currently,  Tyler  is  completing  his  MBA  at  the 
Hartford  Graduate  Center. 

Peter  Walworth  is  manager  of  facility  plan- 
ning and  engineering  at  Applicon  in  Burling- 
ton, MA. 


1975 


MARRIED:  Charlene  M.  Hodgkins  to  Roy  K. 

Rigie  on  April  4,  1982  in  Sutton,  MA.  The 
bride  is  with  Cyro  Industries  in  Stamford,  CT. 
Her  husband,  a  chemical  engineering  graduate 
of  the  University  of  Connecticut,  works  for 
American  Cyanamid,  also  in  Stamford.  .  .  . 
Edward  T.  GrifRn  and  Leong  Foong  Har  in 
San  Diego,  CA  on  May  8,  1982.  Griffin,  still 
employed  at  Dymac  Division,  is  also  studying 
for  his  MBA  at  the  University  of  San  Diego. 

BORN:  to  Julie  and  Dick  Ferreault  a  daugh- 
ter, Maressa  Anne,  on  May  \?>,  1981.  Dick  is 
a  field  engineer  for  the  circuit  test  systems  group 
at  Hewlett-Packard,  Lexington,  MA. 

Jon  Anderson  now  works  for  the  Vermont 
Department  of  Public  Service  representing  the 
public  in  rate  cases  before  the  Public  Service 
Board. 

Continuing  with  the  Lindc  Division  of  Union 
Carbide,  John  Batt  currently  serves  as  mar- 
keting product  specialist  in  Somerset,  NJ. 

Karenann  Brozowski  is  a  senior  process  en- 
gineer at  Corning  Medical  &  Scientific,  a  di- 
vision of  Corning  Glass  Works  in  East  Wal- 
pole,  MA. 

Mark  Chevrier  is  employed  as  a  project  en- 
gineer at  Lego  Systems.  Inc.  He  is  located  in 
Enfield,  CT. 


L 


40  WPI  JOURNAL 


Still  in  Houston,  James  Costello  is  now  a 
senior  construction  engineer  at  Transcontinen- 
tal Gas  Pipeline  Co. 

William  Cunningham  is  with  Chas.  T.  Main, 
Inc.,  Boston.  Besides  his  MS  from  WPI,  he 
holds  degrees  from  Worcester  Junior  College, 
Northeastern  and  Western  New  England  Col- 
lege. 

Bill  Faltas,  senior  actuarial  assistant  with 
Aetna  Life  &  Casualty  of  Hartford,  received 
his  associateship  designation  in  the  Casualty 
Actuarial  Society  at  the  Society's  spring  meet- 
ing. The  designation  can  be  achieved  only 
through  successful  completion  of  seven  com- 
prehensive insurance  examinations. 

Stephen  Fitzhugh  has  been  appointed  sales 
representative  in  the  Northeastern  District  for 
GE's  Wire  and  Cable  Department,  which  man- 
ufactures a  complete  line  of  insulated  electric 
wires  and  cables. 

Eric  Isbister  holds  the  position  of  chief  nu- 
clear test  engineer  at  Electric  Boat  Division  of 
General  Dynamics,  Groton,  CT. 

Nicholas  Kyriakos  continues  as  a  construc- 
tion resident  engineer  for  Texasgulf,  Inc.,  Au- 
rora, NC. 

Ronnie  Materniak  recently  returned  to  Wil- 
mington, DE,  as  a  specialist  engineer  in  the 
design  division,  following  two  years  with  Du 
Font's  Construction  Division  in  Richmond,  VA. 
This  spring  he  completed  his  MBA  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Richmond. 

Paul  O'Brien  is  a  seminarian  at  Pope  John 
XXIII  National  Seminary,  Weston,  MA. 

Barrett  Pett  is  a  general  manager  at  Tally's 
Inc.,  Gloucester,  MA. 

Francis  Schlegel,  Jr.,  serves  as  production 
area  foreman  at  UniRoyal  Chemical  Division 
in  Geismar,  LA. 

Wayne  Stratton  is  an  electronics  technician 
at  Microlog  Corp.,  Gaithersburg,  MD. 

Stephen  Zambarano,  who  is  with  the  Systems 
Laboratory  Branch  of  the  Naval  Underwater 
Systems  Center  in  Rhode  Island,  has  been  se- 
lected by  NUSC  to  participate  in  its  long-term 
graduate  level  training  program.  An  electronic 
engineer,  he  will  attend  the  University  of  Rhode 
Island. 


1976 


MARRIED:  Greg  W.  Dubin  and  Linda  A.  Mor- 
rissey  in  West  Hartford,  CT,  on  June  12,  1982. 
The  bride  graduated  from  Hartford  College  for 
Women,  the  University  of  Hartford.  Dubin 
serves  as  a  research  engineer  at  Combustion 
Engineering  in  Windsor.  .  .  .  James  R.  Hall 
and  Laurie  J.  Dempsey  in  Dedham,  MA  May 
1,  1982.  She  graduated  from  Smith  College. 
Hall  is  a  consultant  at  Arthur  Andersen  &  Co. , 
Boston.  .  .  .  Stuart  B.  Siegel  and  Debra  L. 
Swartz  on  January  24,  1982  in  Maiden,  MA. 
The  bride,  who  is  employed  by  the  Boston  Eye 
Clinic,  has  a  BA  from  UMass.  Siegel  is  a  chem- 
ical engineer  at  Hewlett-Packard  in  Waltham. 

Joseph  Adams  is  a  project  engineer  at  D'Ap- 
polonia  in  Milwaukee. 

Richard  Allen  owns  Richard  K.  Allen,  P.E., 
Meriden,  NH. 

Daniel  Brock  is  a  captain  in  the  Southbor- 
ough  (MA)  Fire  Dept. 

Ray  Calabro  serves  as  a  pipe  engineering 
supervisor  for  Daniel  Construction  at  the  Wolf 
Creek  Project  in  Kansas. 


Mike  Dabkowski  works  as  a  research  engi- 
neer at  Mobil  Research  &  Development  Corp. , 
Paulsboro,  NJ. 

Andra  Eslami  Finkel  has  received  her  JD 
degree  from  Whittier  College  in  California  and 
was  slated  to  sit  for  the  July  California  bar 
exam.  She  is  now  with  Blakely,  Sokoloff  (Stan- 
ley SokolofT,  '59),  Taylor  &  Zafman  in  Beverly 
Hills,  specializing  in  patent,  trademark  and  co- 
pyright law.  She  and  her  husband,  Charles, 
have  one  son. 

Sidney  Formal  is  with  the  U.S.  Army  Corps 
of  Engineers  at  the  Water  Resources  Support 
Center  in  Ft.  Belvoir,  VA. 

Richard  Hansen  serves  as  president  of  Air 
Stations,  Inc.,  Boston,  MA.  Last  year  he  re- 
ceived his  MBA  from  Boston  University. 

Sterling  "Buzz"  Hassler  has  been  promoted 
to  divisional  vice  president  and  general  man- 
ager for  the  U.S.  Diamond  Products  Division 
of  Norton  Co.  Previously,  he  had  been  director 
of  marketing  planning  in  the  abrasives  mar- 
keting group. 

John  Heid  holds  the  post  of  manager  of  dis- 
tribution operations  at  Max  Factor  &  Co.,  Ox- 
ford, NC. 

Paul  Jacques,  still  with  Kodak,  is  now  a  sen- 
ior coordinating  engineer  for  the  firm  in  Roch- 
ester, NY. 

Greg  Kedderis  has  received  his  PhD  in  bio- 
chemistry from  Northwestern  University  Med- 
ical School  in  Chicago.  He  is  a  postdoctoral 
fellow  at  the  Chemical  Industry  Institute  of 
Toxicology  in  Raleigh,  NC. 

Peter  Krupinsky  is  a  public  defender  in  Los 
Angeles  County,  Los  Angeles,  CA. 

Paul  Lessard  holds  the  post  of  chief  of  the 
department  of  engineering  for  the  102nd  Air 
National  Guard.  He  resides  in  North  Truro, 
MA,  with  his  wife,  Noreen,  and  two  children. 

Jay  Manning  works  for  Megatest  in  Wake- 
field, MA. 

Penny  McLean  is  currently  a  senior  engineer 
in  the  Tech  Photo  Division  of  Polaroid  provid- 
ing manufacturing  technical  support  to  the  4x5/ 
Roll  Film  Manufacturing  Group.  She  is  head- 
quartered in  Waltham,  MA. 

John  Moroney,  Jr.,  is  employed  as  opera- 
tions manager  at  Microwave  Associates,  Bur- 
lington, MA.  He  lives  in  Boston. 

Still  mth  Riley  Stoker,  Worcester,  John  Scott 
serves  the  company  as  a  proposal  engineer. 

Michael  Whelan  works  as  a  clinical  engineer 
at  the  University  of  Massachusetts  Medical 
Center,  Worcester. 


1977 


MARRIED:  Gordon  Walton,  III,  and  Rhonda 
K.  Carlson  in  Houston,  TX,  on  May  29,  1982. 
The  bride  graduated  from  the  University  of 
Houston  and  is  a  software  design  engineer  for 
Texas  Instruments,  Houston,  where  her  hus- 
band is  an  electronic  design  engineer.  Walton 
holds  a  master's  degree  from  Northwestern 
University,  Evanston,  IL. 

E.  J.  Betti  serves  as  a  stress  analyst  for  Bech- 
tel  (subcontractor)  in  Ann  Arbor,  MI. 

Robert  Cataldo  is  a  programmer-analyst  for 
the  Hartford  Insurance  Group  of  ITT  in  Hart- 
ford, CT. 

Bill  Cunningham  is  now  in  marketing  in  the 
commercial  division  of  Meditech  in  Cam- 
bridge, MA.  This  spring  he  not  only  graduated 


with  his  MBA  from  Tuck  School,  Dartmouth, 
he  was  selected  by  the  members  of  his  class  to 
be  guest  speaker  at  the  graduates'  investiture 
service. 

Gary  Davis  works  as  a  systems  analyst  for 
Dialcom,  Inc.,  of  Silver  Spring,  MD.  He  also 
is  a  student  in  motion-picture  production  at  the 
University  of  Southern  California. 

Elizabeth  Ernst  continues  with  the  depart- 
ment of  engineering  at  Inco  Electro  Energy, 
Madison,  WI. 

Kenneth  Fox  is  a  senior  account  associate  at 
the  Foxboro  Co.,  West  Hartford,  CT. 

Eric  Hertz  is  employed  as  a  staff  supervisor 
at  AT&T  Long  Lines  in  Bedminster,  NJ. 

Robert  Hyland  is  a  research  associate  at  Hah- 
nemann Medical  College  and  Hospital  in  Phil- 
adelphia. 

Todd  Leen  continues  as  a  graduate  student 
in  the  department  of  physics  at  the  University 
of  Wisconsin  in  Milwaukee. 

Jim  Leighton,  formerly  with  Raytheon, 
Reading,  MA,  has  taken  a  new  post  in  navi- 
gation systems  analysis  at  Analytic  Sciences 
Corporation.  The  Leightons  have  purchased  a 
condominium  and  still  enjoy  saihng  their  25- 
ft.  sailboat. 

Stuart  Merrell  is  a  design  and  estimating  en- 
gineer at  Reisner  Metals,  Southgate,  CA. 

Bruce  Minsky  has  received  his  MD  degree 
from  the  University  of  Massachusetts,  Worces- 
ter. For  his  residency,  he  is  specializing  in  ra- 
diation oncology  at  New  England  Deaconess 
Hospital,  Boston. 

Daniel  Rodrigues  serves  as  a  software  design 
engineer  at  Simplex  Time  Recorder  Co. ,  Gard- 
ner, MA.  He  and  Maryann  have  two  children 
and  reside  in  Lunenburg. 

Continuing  with  GTE  Sylvania,  Amy  Schnei- 
der is  currently  a  senior  programmer  for  the 
company  in  Danvers,  MA. 

J.  Gilbert  Wilson,  III,  holds  the  position  of 
manager  of  sales  engineering  at  Varco  Pruden 
Buildings  in  St.  Joseph,  MO. 


1978 


MARRIED:  Thomas  Monroe  and  Denise  Four- 
nier  in  Mansfield,  RI,  on  April  17,  1982.  The 
bride  graduated  from  Westfield  (MA)  State 
College  and  is  a  special-needs  teacher  in  Fox- 
boro. Monroe  serves  as  a  senior  project  engi- 
neer for  Johnson  Controls  at  the  Seabrook  nu- 
clear power  plant  in  New  Hampshire.  .  .  .  Caria 
L.  Smith  and  David  Gamari  on  May  1,  1982 
in  New  Castle,  NH.  Mrs.  Gamari  graduated 
from  UNH  and  received  her  master's  degree 
from  WPI.  She  is  with  Digital  Equipment  Corp. 
of  Bedford.  He  is  a  graduate  of  Hobart  College 
and  works  for  Hybrid  Components,  Inc.,  Bev- 
erly, MA. 

Gerald  Baird,  Jr.,  is  a  captain  in  the  Ord- 
nance Corps  for  the  U.S.  Army. 

Donald  Clemmey  has  been  promoted  to  ac- 
tuarial assistant  at  State  Mutual  Life  Assurance 
Co.  of  America  in  Worcester.  He  joined  the 
firm  as  actuarial  associate  in  1979.  This  year 
he  earned  his  associate  designation  in  the  So- 
ciety of  Actuaries. 

Jeffrey  Firestone  holds  the  post  of  level  II 
designer  for  ground  support  equipment  and 
electrical  systems  at  Rocketdyne,  Canoga  Park, 
CA. 

Don  Fontaine  works  as  a  sales  engineer  at 


OCTOBER  1982  41 


Electro-Craft  in  Hopkins.  MN. 

Bryce  Granger  is  a  project  engineer  at  McNeil 
Akron.  Inc..  Akron.  OH. 

Ruth  Heselbarth  ser%es  as  a  senior  account- 
ant (CPA)  at  Peat.  Marwick.  Mitchell  &  Co.. 
Boston. 

Osamu  Kimura  holds  the  post  of  utility  con- 
struction management  specialist  for  the  New 
York  State  Public  Service  Commission. 

Carl  Klein  graduated  from  Harvard  Business 
School  in  June.  This  fall  he  starts  work  as  an 
associate  in  Fleet  Venture  Resources.  Provi- 
dence. RI. 

Terry  Landers,  a  data  base  manager  at  the 
New  England  Telephone  Co..  spoke  at  Ded- 
ham  (MA)  High  School  in  March  on  "Careers 
in  Engineering." 

Laura  Mattick,  still  with  Procter  &  Gamble, 
was  recently  promoted  to  mechanical  depart- 
ment manager  at  the  St.  Bernard  soap  and  de- 
tergent plant.  She  has  responsibility  for  15 
craftsmen,  nine  production  lines  and  a  $1.8- 
million  productivity  improvement  project. 

Alok  Misra  writes  that  he  is  the  sole  propri- 
etor (computer  consultant)  for  ACM  Software. 
Burlington.  MA.  He  is  also  a  graduate  student 
at  MIT, 

Anthony  Raymond  is  a  senior  engineer  in 
storage  systems  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp.. 
Maynard.  MA. 

Robert  Sherburne  continues  as  a  graduate 
student  at  the  University  of  California.  Berke- 
ley. 

Ken  Swenson  works  for  General  lonex  in 
Newburyport.  MA. 

Karlis  Viceps  is  an  environmental  engineer 
at  Energyscapes.  Taos.  NM. 

John  Wallace  is  on  the  technical  staff  at  Bell 
Labs,  Naperville.  IL. 

Randall  Wyatt  is  a  project  engineer  at  GE 
in  Collingdale,  PA. 


1979 


MARRIED:  Roland  Brooks  and  Cornelia  Moore 
recently.  Tlie  bride,  a  secretary,  graduated  from 
the  State  University  of  New  York  at  Delhi. 
Brooks  is  now  a  teaching  assistant  in  the  CAB 
Labs  at  WPI.  .  .  .  Garrett  A.  Chace  and  Diannc 
M.  Parker  in  Tiverton.  RI,  on  June  12,  1982. 
Mrs.  Chace  graduated  from  Ouinsigamond 
Community  College,  Worcester.  Her  husband 
is  with  Killingly  Building  Products,  Dayvillc, 
CT.  .  .  .  Mark  J.  Groves  to  Barbara  G.  Swee- 
ney on  May  8.  1982  in  Cumberland,  RI.  Mrs. 
Groves  graduated  from  Becker.  The  bride- 
groom has  an  MSEE  from  Syracuse  University 
and  is  a  system  engineer  at  Simmonds  Precision 
in  Vcrgcnncs,  VT.  .  .  .  Carolyn  Jones  and  1st 
Lt.  John  Kikuchi,  an  electrical  engineering 
graduate  from  the  University  of  California  at 
Berkeley,  on  October  24.  1981.  The  bride  is 
still  stationed  at  Brooks  AFB.  where  she  is  an 
AF  acoustics  consultant 

Dean  Bogues  is  a  sales  representative  for 
Hewlett-Packard  in  Lexington,  MA. 

Scott  Booth  works  as  an  assistant  project  en- 
gineer for  lurncr  Construction  Co.  and  lives 
in  Burnt  Hills,  NY. 

Stephen  (aputo  holds  the  post  of  district  sales 
manager  at  CjL  in  Milwaukee 

Robert  DeMarco  is  now  a  diagnostic  imaging 
sales  representative  in  GE's  medical  systems 
sales  and  service  operation,  Syracuse,  NY. 


In  June.  Douglas  DeSimone  returned  from 
studying  at  the  Biocenter  in  Basel.  Switzer- 
land. He  spent  the  summer  at  the  Marine  Bi- 
ological Laboratories  in  Woods  Hole.  MA.  This 
fall,  he  is  working  in  a  PhD  program  in  biology 
at  Dartmouth  College.  Hanover.  NH. 

Stephen  DiPietro  has  been  awarded  a  mas- 
ter's degree  in  nuclear  engineering  at  MIT.  He 
is  employed  at  the  Bettis  Atomic  Energy  plant 
in  West  Mifflin.  PA. 

Alwyn  Fitzgerald  plans  to  attend  UMass. 
Amherst,  this  fall,  to  study  full-time  for  his 
MBA  degree. 

Peter  Greer  is  a  pilot  plant  engineer  for 
American  Cyanamid  in  Stamford.  CT. 

Claire  LaChance  is  a  member  of  the  tech- 
nical staff  at  Mitre  Corp..  Bedford,  MA. 

Thomas  Lau  serves  as  a  programmer  at  Sub- 
liprint  Far  East,  Ltd.,  Hong  Kong. 

William  Newhard  is  with  Honeywell  in  Bil- 
lerica,  MA.  He  and  his  wife,  Linda,  live  in 
Lincoln. 

Keith  Payea  works  as  a  test  engineer  for  the 
John  Fluke  Mfg.  Co.,  Inc.,  Everett,  WA. 

Dusan  Petranovic  is  a  lecturer  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Titograd  in  Yugoslavia. 

Formerly  with  Procter  &  Gamble.  Steve 
Rusckowski  is  now  a  graduate  student  at  the 
Sloan  School.  MIT. 

Carl  Rutigliano  holds  the  post  of  product 
engineer  at  Anderson  Greenwood  &  Co., 
Houston. 

Richard  Schneider  is  employed  by  Texas  In- 
struments, Attleboro,  MA. 

In  May,  Edward  Tidman,  III,  received  his 
MBA  from  Babson  College  with  high  distinc- 
tion. He  is  with  the  commercial  loan  division 
at  Mechanics  Bank  in  Worcester  and  plans  to 
attend  Suffolk  Law  School. 

Philip  Turek  holds  the  post  of  production 
planner  for  Parker  Hannifin  in  Wickliffe,  OH. 

Paul  Wrabel  is  a  manufacturing  process  en- 
gineer at  Babcock  &  Wilcox,  Barberton,  OH. 


1980 


MARRIED:  William  J.  Keville,  III,  and  Ann 

M.  Lynn  in  Stamford,  CT,  on  May  8,  1982. 
The  bride  graduated  from  Stamford  High  School 
and  is  employed  at  St.  Joseph  Hospital.  .  .  . 
Gary  C;  Sawicki  and  Penny  A.  Pullinen  on 
May  1 ,  1982  in  Ludlow,  VT.  Mrs.  Sawicki  grad- 
uated from  Becker  and  is  a  physical  therapy 
assistant.  Sawicki  works  for  Texas  Instru- 
ments, North  Attleboro,  MA.  .  .  .  Frank  P. 
Sloan,  Jr.,  and  Mary  L.  Pettis  on  May  9,  1982 
in  Holden,  MA.  Mrs.  Sloan  graduated  from 
Wachusett  Regional  High  School  and  is  em- 
ployed at  American  .Screen  Printers  in  Leo- 
minster. Her  husband  is  with  Norton  Com- 
pany, Worcester.  .  .  .  James  J.  Wilbur  and 
Claudia  A.  Huehmer  in  Hudson,  MA,  on  June 
6,  1982.  The  bride  is  studying  for  her  master's 
degree  at  WPI.  Wilbur  serves  as  a  fire  protec- 
tion engineer  for  the  Kemper  Insurance  Co. 

BORN:  to  Eileen  and  Art  O'Leary  a  son. 
Arthur  James  Bernard,  on  November  19,  1981 . 
Art  is  a  mechanical  engineer  at  Artisan  Indus- 
tries, Inc.,  Waltham,  MA.  and  Eileen  works 
part-time  at  Sentry  Insurance,  Concord.  .  .  . 
to  Judy  (iemma-Sjostcdt  and  John  E.  Sjo.stedt 
their  first  child.  Peter  John,  on  May  24,  1982. 
John  is  still  employed  as  a  chemical  engineer 
at  Du  Font's  Washington  works.  West  Virginia 


plant.  The  baby's  grandfather  is  Rowland 
Gemma,  SIM'79,  chief  estimator  at  Morgan 
Construction  Company.  Worcester. 

John  Apostolou  serves  as  a  sales  and  devel- 
opment representative  at  Du  Pont  in  Nashville. 
TN. 

Keith  Brown  is  an  environmental  engineer 
at  Ecology  &  Environment.  Inc..  Woburn.  MA. 
Formerly  he  was  with  Cullinan  Engineering. 

Michael  Cheamitru  is  employed  as  a  struc- 
tural engineer  at  the  David  W.  Tavlor  Naval 
Ship  R&D  Center.  Bethesda.  MD.' 

Duane  Delfosse,  an  associate  manufacturing 
engineerat  IBM.  lives  in  Mountain  View.  CA. 

Michael  Gariepy  is  a  senior  process  engineer 
in  semiconductor  processing  at  Advanced  Mi- 
crodevices.  Sunnyvale.  CA. 

David  Gura  serves  as  a  senior  field  engineer 
for  Schlumberger  Well  Services  in  Corpus 
Christi.  TX. 

Thomas  Hogan  is  a  hardware  engineer  at 
Prime  Computer.  Inc..  Framingham.  MA. 

Rango  Keshavan  has  a  new  post  as  an  elec- 
trical engineer  with  the  strapdown  systems  de- 
sign group  at  Litton  Guidance  and  Control, 
Woodland  Hills,  CA. 

William  Lee,  Jr.,  works  for  Stone  &  Webster 
in  Boston. 

Mark  Lefebvre  is  now  a  test  engineer  tech- 
nologist at  Teradyne,  Inc.,  Boston. 

Linda  Mclnnis  continues  as  a  hardware  tech- 
nical writer  at  Computervision,  Bedford,  MA. 

Maryellen  McLaughlin  is  a  staff  engineer  at 
HDS,  Inc..  Reston.  VA.  She  is  also  attending 
Virginia  Polytechnic  Institute  part-time,  study- 
ing for  her  MSEE. 

John  Natalizia  has  been  elected  vice  presi- 
dent of  the  Providence  (RI)  Gas  Company,  a 
wholly-owned  subsidiary  of  Providence  Energy 
Corporation.  He  joined  the  firm  in  197.5  as  a 
statistical  analyst  and  was  subsequently  pro- 
moted to  director  of  rates  and  assistant  vice 
president.  A  graduate  of  Boston  College,  he 
holds  a  master's  degree  from  WPI. 

Rosemary  Murphy  O'Brien  entered  Tufts 
University  Graduate  School  in  September  to 
study  chemical  engineering.  For  the  past  two 
years,  she  has  been  with  Critical  Fluid  Systems 
at  A.D.  Little. 

Michael  Parulis  is  a  nuclear  construction  en- 
gineer for  the  General  Dynamics  Electric  Boat 
Division  in  Groton,  CT. 

Cathryn  Ricci  serves  as  a  packaging  engineer 
at  Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Hudson,  MA. 

Matthew  Rubano  is  an  associate  engineer  at 
Northeast  Utilities,  Hartford,  CT. 

Peter  Sherer  is  employed  as  a  machine  design 
engineer  at  Kodak,  Rochester,  NY. 

Richard  Stephens  was  recently  promoted  to 
regional  sales  manager  of  the  fluid  drives  and 
controls  division  for  the  Northeastern  part  of 
the  U.S.  at  Dana  Industrial  Group.  Paramus, 
NJ. 

Thomas  Storey  is  now  a  fire  protection  en- 
gineer at  Public  Service  Electric  &  Gas,  Han- 
cocks Bridge,  NJ. 

James  Sweeney,  III,  is  employed  as  a  systems 
analyst  in  GE's  Energy  Applications  Program 
Department,  Schenectady. 

Alan  Weeks  works  for  GE's  Mechanical  Drive 
Turbine  Department  in  Fitchburg,  MA. 

William  Woishnis  is  a  manufacturing  engi- 
neer al  Hewlett-Packard  in  Palo  Alto,  CA. 

John  /.agorski  is  a  PhD  candidate  in  the  de- 
partment of  biochemistry  at  the  University  of 
Massachusetts  in  Amherst. 


42  WPI  JOURNAL 


1981 


MARRIED:  John  F.  Brady,  3rd,  and  Anne  Pepe 
on  April  16,  1982.  The  bride  graduated  from 
Immanuel  College  with  a  BS  in  political  science 
and  Spanish.  She  holds  a  teaching  certificate 
in  elementary  education.  Brady  is  employed  as 
an  electrical  engineer  at  Texas  Instruments, 
Dallas.  .  ,  .  John  T.  Eagan,  Jr.,  and  Marie  A. 
Wooley  in  New  Milford.  CT.  on  May  1,  1982. 
Mrs.  Eagan,  who  is.with  a  Dallas,  TX,  real 
estate  firm,  graduated  from  New  Milford  High 
School.  The  groom  is  a  mechanical  design  en- 
gineer at  Texas  Instruments,  Dallas.  .  .  .Ralph 
Malboeuf  and  Diane  M.  Motta  in  Province- 
town,  MA,  on  May  1,  1982.  Mrs.  Malboeuf 
graduated  from  Becker.  He  is  an  electrical  en- 
gineer in  Long  Island,  NY,  and  is  also  studying 
for  his  master's  degree  at  Hofstra  University. 

James  R.  Morin  and  Darcy  A.  Boyea  in 
Marlborough,  NH,  on  May  21,  1982.  The  bride 
graduated  from  Bay  Path  Junior  College, 
Longmeadow,  MA,  and  is  a  legal  secretary  in 
Milford.  Her  husband  serves  as  a  manufactur- 
ing engineer  in  Milford  at  Hitchner  Manufac- 
turing Co.  .  .  .  Gregory  J.  Phipps  to  Ingrid  I. 
Rasmanis  in  Providence,  RI  on  May  1,  1982. 
The  bride  graduated  from  the  University  of 
Rhode  Island  and  works  for  Data  Resources, 
Inc.,  Lexington,  MA.  Phipps  is  an  applications 
engineer  at  Automatix,  Inc.,  Burlington. 

Doug  Anderson  serves  as  a  test  and  service 
field  engineer  for  Koppers  Co.  in  Baltimore. 

Donald  Calawa  continues  as  a  graduate  as- 
sistant in  the  electrical  engineering  department 
at  WPI. 

Thomas  Connerton  serves  as  a  project  man- 
ager at  Topper  &  Griggs  Steel  Co.,  Inc.,  Plain- 
ville,  CT. 

Jeanne  Coughlin  has  been  employed  as  a  jun- 
ior process  engineer  at  IBM  in  Endicott,  NY. 

Mark  Feeney  has  joined  Daniel  O'ConnelKs 
Sons,  Inc.,  Holyoke,  MA. 

Jorge  Garcia  is  with  Texaco,  Inc.  of  Panama. 

Edward  Gonsalves  works  for  Texas  Instru- 
ments, Attleboro,  MA. 

Robert  Gottberg  serves  as  an  associate  en- 
gineer at  IBM  in  Poughkeepsie,  NY. 

Webb  Grouten,  Jr.,  is  a  field  planning  en- 
gineer at  Stone  &  Webster  in  Piketon,  OH. 

Waleed  Hajjar  works  as  a  senior  engineer 
for  Advanced  Technology  Lab.,  Belle vue,  WA. 

Robert  Hevey,  Jr.,  is  an  associate  engineer 
at  Electric  Boat  in  Groton,  CT. 

Ladan  Homayoon,  who  is  studying  for  his 
master's  degree  in  engineering,  is  a  teaching 
assistant  at  Cornell  University,  Ithaca,  NY. 

Thomas  Hyrniewicz  serves  as  a  programmer 
for  Donnelley  Marketing  Information  Services 
in  Stamford,  CT. 

Charles  LaBrec  is  a  teaching  assistant  in  the 
physics  department  at  Purdue  University  in  West 
Lafayette,  IN. 

Cynthia  Lozeau  is  with  Corning  Glass  Works, 
Corning,  NY,  where  she  is  employed  as  a  me- 
chanical engineer. 

Dr.  Paul  McLaughlin  is  a  senior  analytical 
chemist  with  Sterling  Drug,  Rensselaer,  NY. 

John  Norton  is  a  chemical  engineer  at  the 
Naval  Ordnance  Station,  Indian  Head,  MD. 

Michael  Patz  is  a  research  associate  at  New 
England  Nuclear,  North  Billerica,  MA. 

Jeffrey  Petraitis  is  employed  as  a  product 
design  engineer  at  Texas  Instruments  in  Attle- 
boro, MA. 


Stuart  Ross  is  employed  as  a  project  engineer 
at  CBS  Technology  Center,  Stamford,  CT. 

Stanley  Siver  serves  as  a  naval  aviation  in- 
telligence officer  for  the  U.S.  Navy. 

David  Thompson  works  as  a  lab  technician 
at  Riogen,  Cambridge,  MA. 

Marc  Trudeau  is  a  sound  engineer  at  Peavey 
Electronics,  Inc.  in  Meridian,  MS. 

Thomas  Weaver  serves  as  a  scientific  pro- 
grammer at  Cabot,  Billerica,  MA. 

Mark  Wilcox  is  a  systems  engineer  at  IBM 
in  Hartford,  CT. 


1982  WPI  Alumni  Directory 

An  up-to-date  listing  of  all  living  alumni, 
including  their  residence  and  business 
addresses,  is  available  by  contacting: 

WPI  Alumni  Office 

Institute  Road 

Worcester,  MA  01609 

(617)  793-5600 

The  cost  is  $13.95  postage  paid. 


1982 


MARRIED:  Arthur  P.  Christian,  2nd,  and  Di- 
ane M.  Caswell  on  June  12,  1982  in  Suffield, 
CT. 

Ronald  Alexander  has  been  employed  as  a 
software  engineer  at  Prime  Computer,  Inc., 
Framingham,  MA. 

The  Foxboro  Co.,  Foxboro,  MA,  has  hired 
Glen  Bashian  as  an  electronic  product  engi- 
neer. 

Jane  Bebar  is  with  IBM  in  Endicott,  NY. 

Thomas  Berard  serves  as  a  management 
trainee  at  New  England  Telephone,  Boston. 

Craig  Brock  has  joined  Hamilton  Standard, 
Windsor  Locks,  CT. 

Jane  Bulejcik  is  now  with  EUA  Service  Corp. , 
Lincoln,  RI. 

Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Tewksbury,  MA, 
has  employed  James  Cahill  as  a  software  en- 
gineer. 

Brian  Chase  works  as  a  field  engineer  at 
Turner  Construction  Co.,  Boston. 

Deborah  Chichlowski  is  currently  a  quality 
engineer  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  West- 
minster, MA. 

Carl  Cianci  works  for  Electric  Boat,  Groton, 
CT. 

Scott  Connally  has  been  named  a  member  of 
the  technical  staff  at  Hughes  Aircraft  Co.,  Ful- 
Icrton,  CA. 

Terry  Crook  has  joined  Hamilton  Standard, 
Windsor  Locks,  CT  as  a  field  service  engineer. 

Martin  Gurry  is  now  a  project  engineer  at 
Procter  &  Gamble,  Cincinnati,  OH. 

Lynne  D'Autrechy  has  been  named  a  mem- 
ber of  the  technical  staff  at  Bell  Laboratories, 
Piscataway,  NJ. 

James  Diemer  is  a  research  assistant  in  the 
CE  department  at  the  University  of  Illinois  in 
Urbana. 

Lawrence  Donohue,  Jr.,  is  a  manufacturing 
engineer  at  the  Torrington  (CT)  Co. 

Robert  Edwards  is  with  the  ground  systems 
group  at  Hughes  Aircraft  Co.,  Fullerton,  CA. 

Currently,  Richard  Perron  is  a  teaching  as- 
sistant at  WPI. 


Gregory  Fitzgerald  has  joined  the  Sylvania 
Systems  Group,  Communication  Systems  Di- 
vision, at  GTE  in  Needham  Heights,  MA. 

Eric  Fredrickson  works  for  GE  in  Water- 
ford,  NY. 

Cynthia  Gagnon  has  joined  Bell  Laborato- 
ries in  Holmdel,  NJ. 

Sharyn  Germata  works  as  a  cost  analyst  at 
Chase  in  Westboro,  MA. 

Michele  Giard  is  employed  at  Exxon  in 
Houston. 

Stephen  Griffin  holds  the  post  of  design  en- 
gineer at  Hamilton  Test  Systems  in  Tucson, 
AZ. 

Jeffrey  Gross  has  joined  Intel  Corporation 
in  Chandler,  AZ. 

Edward  Hinton  is  a  member  of  the  technical 
staff  at  Wang  Labs,  Inc.,  Lowell,  MA. 

Richard  Hoft  serves  as  a  design  engineer  at 
Microwave  Associates. 

John  lannarone  is  employed  by  Digital 
Equipment  Corp.,  Tewksbury,  MA. 

Michael  lassogna  has  joined  Du  Pont,  Wil- 
mington, DE,  where  he  is  a  project  engineer. 

David  Johnson  is  now  concerned  with  busi- 
ness installations  at  New  England  Telephone 
in  Worcester. 

Stuart  Joseph  has  joined  Yankee  Atomic 
Electric  Co.,  Framingham,  MA. 

Peter  Kearney  serves  as  a  test  engineer  at 
Analog  Devices,  Wilmington,  MA. 

Jolanta  Klepacz  is  an  industrial  engineer  at 
Kodak,  Rochester,  NY. 

Michael  LaFleur  has  joined  Tau-Tron  in 
Chelmsford,  MA. 

State  Mutual,  Worcester,  has  employed 
Robert  Mitchell  as  a  student  actuary. 

Stephen  Morgan  is  now  with  Pratt  &  Whit- 
ney Aircraft,  Hartford,  CT. 

Thomas  Neale  works  as  an  electronic  engi- 
neer at  Intel  Corp.,  Santa  Clara,  CA. 

Robert  Neville  is  a  nuclear  engineer  at  Palo 
Verde  Nuclear  Generating  Station,  Phoenix, 
AZ. 

Richard  Nicholson  works  for  Sanders  Asso- 
ciates, Nashua,  NH. 

Kevin  Nute,  an  electronic  engineer,  is  also 
with  Sanders  Associates. 

Lynne  Ondek  is  in  the  advanced  engineering 
program  at  Honeywell  Small  Systems  and  Ter- 
minals Division,  Billerica,  MA. 

Richard  Petrucci  has  joined  Stone  &  Web- 
ster, Boston. 

Bell  Labs,  Piscataway,  NJ,  has  employed 
Ronald  Pettit  as  a  member  of  the  technical  staff. 

William  Poe  is  enrolled  at  Tufts  University 
School  of  Medicine,  Boston. 

Mark  Ramberg  has  begun  work  at  Teradyne 
Co.,  Boston. 

Chris  Reeve  serves  as  an  associate  industrial 
engineer  at  Data  General  in  Southboro,  MA. 

Marc  Yaffe  is  now  in  pilot  training  at  Vance 
AFB  in  Oklahoma. 


SCHOOL  OF 

INDUSTRIAL 

MANAGEMENT 

MARRIED:  Jeffrey  B.  Ray,  '78,  and  Debra  L. 
Sutcliffe  in  Shrewsbury,  MA,  on  April  3,  1982. 
The  bride,  a  graduate  of  Leo's  Beauty  Insti- 
tute, Worcester,  is  a  hairdresser.  Her  husband 
graduated  from  Nathaniel  Hawthorne  College, 


CXrrOBER  1982  43 


Antrim,  NH,  and  holds  the  post  of  vice  pres- 
ident of  Barco  Mfg..  Inc..  Worcester. 

Stephen  McCabe,  '64,  has  been  elected  vice 
president  of  operations  at  Armatron.  Inter- 
national. Inc..  a  publicly-owned  company  in 
Melrose,  MA.  The  firm  manufactures  elec- 
tronic bugkillers  and  electric  log-splitters,  ra- 
dios for  tractors  and  buses,  satellite  TV  re- 
ceivers and  CB  and  amateur  radio  antennas. 
McCabe  has  directed  operations  at  Armatron 
since  1979.  During  his  22-year  career  at  Norton 
Company,  he  was  a  director  of  operations  and 
manager  of  manufacturing. 

John  McCarthy,  '65,  has  been  appointed  di- 
rector of  management  information  systems  at 
Wyman-Gordon  Co..  Worcester.  Responsible 
for  systems  and  data  processing  at  all  company 
plants,  he  joined  the  company  in  1956  and  has 
worked  in  several  data  processing  jobs.  Most 
recently,  he  was  manager  of  systems  for  the 
eastern  division.  .  .  .  Ralph  Bednarik,  '74,  has 


also  been  promoted  at  Wyman-Gordon.  Cur- 
rently, he  serves  as  manager  of  operations  of 
the  eastern  division  at  the  Grafton  plant. 


NATURAL 
SCIENCE  PROGRAM 

Arthur  Gage,  '72,  continues  as  a  physics  teacher 
at  Agawam  (MA)  High  School.  He  and  his 
wife,  Margaret,  have  two  children.  ...  In  June. 
Peter  Johnson,  '78,  who  taught  high  school  bi- 
ology in  Attleboro,  MA.  for  seven  years,  be- 
came a  medical  doctor  in  graduation  ceremo- 
nies at  the  University  of  Massachusetts.  The 
father  of  three  quit  teaching  full-time  in  1978 
to  go  to  medical  school.  He  helped  support  his 
family  with  a  string  of  part-time  jobs.  Now. 
Johnson  plans  to  go  into  internal  medicine. 


COMPLETED  0\REERS 


Correction:  We  reported  erroneously  in  the 
August  Journal  that  A.  Hugh  Reid,  '11,  and 
James  K.  Healy,  '35,  had  passed  away  recently. 
Both  are  alive  and  well.  In  fact.  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Hugh  Reid  recently  celebrated  their  70th  wed- 
ding anniversary!  We  sincerely  regret  any  dis- 
tress or  inconvenience  which  this  misprint  may 
have  caused  these  alumni,  their  families  or 
friends. 

Mrs.  Esther  Kisk  Coddard,  widow  of  Dr.  Rob- 
ert H.  Goddard,  '08,  America's  pioneer  rocket 
scientist,  died  at  her  home  in  Worcester  on 
June  5,  1982.  She  was  81  years  old. 

Dr.  Goddard,  who  launched  the  world's  first 
liquid  fuel  rocket,  died  in  1945.  Following  his 
death,  Mrs.  Goddard,  a  Worcester  native,  ed- 
ited his  papers,  obtained  patents  on  many  of 
his  inventions  and  lectured  and  traveled  world- 
wide to  receive  honors  on  his  behalf. 

After  attending  Bates  College,  Mrs.  God- 
dard graduated  from  Johns  Hopkins  University 
and  Clark  University.  Later  she  became  sec- 
retary to  the  president  of  Clark,  where  she  met 
her  future  husband  and  assisted  him  during  his 
earliest  experiments  in  rocketry.  In  1966  she 
was  honored  as  the  "first  missile-tracking  pho- 
tographer" by  a  chapter  of  the  Society  of  Photo- 
Optical  Instrumentation  Engineers. 

Others  honors  included:  "Woman  of  the 
Year"  (Worcester  Business  and  Professional 
Women's  Club),  "Mrs.  Goddard  Day"  (WPI). 
honorary  membership  in  the  American  Rocket 
Society  and  degrees  from  Clark  University, 
Anna  Maria  College  and  the  University  of 
Maryland.  In  1969.  she  became  the  first  woman 
ever  awarded  an  honorary  doctor  of  science 
degree  from  WPI 

Charles  F.  Goldthwait,  '09,  one  of  the  coun- 
try's premier  textile  chemists,  died  in  Pitts- 
burgh. PA.  on  April  29,  1982.  He  was  96. 

Dunng  his  career  he  was  with  Klearflax  Linen 
Looms  and  Baltimore  Processing  Co.  and  served 
as  a  senior  industrial  fellow  at  Mellon  Institute, 
Pittsburgh  Also,  he  was  with  the  South  Re- 
gional Research  Lab.  USDA,  in  New  Orleans 
and  a  visiting  professor  at  North  Carolina  State 
College  in  Raleigh. 


Until  four  years  ago,  he  performed  research 
on  virtually  all  natural  and  man-made  fibers. 
His  final  articles  appeared  in  the  official  jour- 
nal of  the  American  Association  of  Textile 
Chemists  and  Colorists.  of  which  he  was  a 
charter  member.  He  developed  a  semi-elastic 
cotton  gauze  bandage  for  military  use  which  is 
now  commercially  available. 

Four  times  he  was  honored  for  his  work  with 
the  USDA.  He  was  the  inventor  of  the  differ- 
ential dye  test  for  maturity  and  processing  qual- 
ity of  cotton  fiber  in  the  boll.  In  "retirement" 
at  North  Carolina  State,  he  developed  stretch 
cotton  fabric — of  considerable  importance  to 
cotton  manufacture  in  this  country. 

John  J.  Desmond,  '14,  of  Rochester,  NY.  passed 
away  on  April  28,  1982  at  the  age  of  91. 

Graduated  as  a  chemist  from  WPI,  he  worked 
for  the  Henry  Souther  Engineering  Co.  and 
Bridgeport  Brass  Co.  and  served  in  the  U.S. 
Army  from  1917  to  1919.  From  1919  to  1955 
he  was  with  North  East  Electric  Co.,  where  he 
rose  to  chief  chemist  and  metallurgist,  staying 
with  the  firm  as  Delco  appliance  division  di- 
rector when  General  Motors  acquired  North 
East. 

Mr.  Desmond  was  a  life  member  of  the 
American  Society  for  Metals,  and  a  past  pres- 
ident of  the  Rochester  chapter,  as  well  as  a 
past  member  of  the  American  Chemical  So- 
ciety. He  had  served  as  president  of  the  Roch- 
ester chapter  of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association 
and  as  WPI  Council  representative  from  1953 
to  1958.  A  native  of  Fall  River.  MA,  he  was 
born  on  May  3,  1890. 

John  M.  Bond,  '15,  of  Lakewood,  NJ,  died  on 
March  3,  1982. 

A  native  of  Providence,  RI,  "Jig"  was  born 
on  April  23,  1892.  Graduated  as  an  electrical 
engineer,  he  worked  a  short  time  for  American 
Steel  &  Wire,  Worcester.  Other  employers  were 
National  Carbon  Co.,  Westinghousc  and  the 
New  York  City  Transit  Authority. 

During  his  career,  he  developed  and  pat- 
ented an  electric  snow  mcltcr  for  track  switches 
which  became  a  standard  device  in  subway  sys- 
tems. In  1918  and  1919  he  served  with  the  U.S. 


Naval  Reserve  and  was  assigned  to  the  Exper- 
imental Station  in  New  London,  CT.  devel- 
oping anti-submarine  devices. 

A  member  of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa,  Mr.  Bond 
also  belonged  to  the  New  York  Railroad  Club, 
AIEE  and  the  American  Electric  Railway  As- 
sociation. 

Warren  W.  Parks,  '17,  WPI  trustee  emeritus, 
died  in  Cincinnati,  OH,  on  August  5,  1982. 

Born  in  Russell,  MA,  on  February  14,  1896, 
he  received  his  BSCE  in  1917.  Later  he  was 
with  Durkee,  White  &  Towne,  Boston  &  Al- 
bany Railroad  and  Fay,  Spofford  &  Thorndike. 
From  1943  to  1966,  he  was  village  manager  of 
Indian  Hill.  OH. 

As  a  former  resident  engineer  of  the  town 
of  Mariemont,  he  was  responsible  for  the  build- 
ing of  one  of  the  first  English-Norman  style 
churches  erected  since  the  12th  Century. 

Besides  serving  as  a  church  trustee,  Mr.  Parks 
provided  leadership  in  many  professional  so- 
cieties. In  1961  he  was  named  Engineer  of  the 
Year  by  the  Technical  and  Scientific  Societies 
Council  of  Cincinnati.  He  was  a  past  director 
of  ASCE  (life  member)  and  past  president  of 
the  Ohio  Municipal  League.  He  was  an  hon- 
orary member  of  Tau  Beta  Pi  and  the  father 
of  Russell  Parks,  '41. 

Arnold  H.  Woods,  '18,  a  former  insurance  ex- 
ecutive, died  on  June  3,  1982  in  Allentown, 
PA,  at  the  age  of  85. 

A  civil  engineer,  he  joined  the  State  of  Il- 
linois Highway  Department.  Later  he  was  em- 
ployed by  the  Stock  Co.  Inspection  Bureau  and 
Improved  Risk  Mutuals.  In  1945  he  founded 
the  former  Arnold  H.  Woods  Insurance  Agency 
in  Allentown. 

Mr.  Woods  belonged  to  the  Society  of  Fire 
Prevention  Engineers  and  Tau  Beta  Pi.  He  was 
a  past  president  of  the  Lehigh  Association  of 
Insurance  Agents  in  Allentown  and  an  original 
member  of  the  Certified  Property  and  Casualty 
Underwriters.  During  World  War  I  he  served 
as  an  officer  in  the  U.S.  Navy.  He  was  born 
on  May  16,  1897  in  Lunenburg,  MA. 

Percy  G.  Sharpe,  '20,  died  on  April  18,  1982 
in  Atlantis,  FL.  He  was  83  years  old. 

A  native  of  Ware,  MA,  he  was  employed 
for  42  years  by  the  Marlboro  Savings  Bank, 
which  he  served  as  assistant  treasurer.  He  re- 
tired in  1968.  He  belonged  to  the  Baptist  Church 
and  the  Masons. 

Lawrence  K.  Hyde,  '22,  of  Gladwyne.  PA,  for- 
merly the  assistant  to  the  vice  president  of 
Baldwin-Lima-Hamilton  Corp.,  died  suddenly 
on  June  3,  1982.  He  was  born  on  April  6,  1901 
in  Westfield,  MA. 

During  his  career,  he  was  with  the  National 
Bureau  of  Standards  and  O.S.  Peters  Co. 
(president),  Washington,  DC,  and  McCoUum 
Exploration  Co.,  Houston,  TX.  For  30  years 
he  was  employed  by  Baldwin-Lima-Hamilton 
Corp.,  Waltham,  MA.  After  retirement  from 
the  latter  firm,  he  served  as  manager  of  the 
Testing  Machine  Division  at  Wiedemann  Ma- 
chine Co.  in  King  of  Prussia.  PA. 

Mr.  Hyde  belonged  to  ATO  and  earned  his 
BSME  at  George  Washington  University.  Other 
memberships  included  Sigma  Tau,  ASM, 
ASTM,  ISA  and  the  Washington  Society  of 
Engineers.  He  was  a  registered  professional 
engineer  in  Washington,  DC.  He  was  a  former 


44  WPI  JOURNAL 


vice  president  of  Civitan  International  (DC), 
a  past  president  of  the  Washington  chapter  of 
the  WPI  Alumni  Association  and  the  father  of 
John  Hyde,  '56. 

Donald  McAllister,  '23,  of  Palos  Verdes  Es- 
tates, CA,  a  former  employee  of  Robertshaw 
Controls,  died  on  March  28,  1982. 

He  was  born  on  May  8,  1902  in  Adams,  MA, 
and  received  his  BSME  from  WPI,  where  he 
belonged  to  ATO  and  Skull.  He  worked  for 
T.K.  McAllister  &  Co.,  and  General  Fibre  Box 
Co.,  both  of  Springfield,  MA,  as  well  as  Wor- 
thington  Pump  of  Holyoke.  Other  employers 
were  North  American  Aviation  and  Grayson 
Controls  in  California.  He  was  retired  from 
Robertshaw  Controls  of  Long  Beach.  An  Army 
veteran,  he  rose  to  the  rank  of  major. 

Harold  P.  Latimer,  '25,  a  long-time  employee 
of  Simonds  Saw  &  Steel,  Fitchburg,  MA,  passed 
away  on  January  31,  1982. 

A  graduate  mechanical  engineer,  he  joined 
Simonds,  where  he  retired  as  a  sales  engineer 
in  1960.  Later  he  was  with  Industrial  Supphes, 
Inc. 

Mr.  Latimer,  a  32-degree  Mason  and  Shri- 
ner,  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappa  and  Skull. 
He  resided  in  Laguna  Hills,  CA,  and  was  born 
on  February  12,  1903  in  Leominster,  MA. 

Paul  R.  Nelson,  '30,  a  former  control  engineer 
at  Norton  Co.,  died  on  June  15,  1982  in  Cape 
Cod  Hospital,  Hyannis,  MA.  He  was  79. 

He  received  his  BSEE  from  WPI.  For  35 
years,  until  his  retirement  in  1960,  he  was  with 
Norton  Co.,  Worcester,  which  he  served  as  a 
manufacturing  control  engineer. 

Mr.  Nelson  was  born  on  November  27,  1902 
in  Worcester.  Besides  attending  Bates  College, 
Lewiston,  ME,  he  did  graduate  work  at  Boston 
University.  He  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappa, 
the  Norton  25-Year  Club  and  the  Norton 
Foreman's  Club.  He  was  past  master  of  Mon- 
tacute  Masonic  Lodge. 

Warren  N.  Doubleday,  '31,  Quabbin  Reservoir 
historian,  died  at  his  home  in  New  Salem,  MA, 
on  May  2,  1982  at  the  age  of  72.  He  was  born 
in  North  Dana,  MA,  on  February  8,  1910. 

Graduated  as  an  electrical  engineer,  from 
1934  to  1937  he  was  an  engineer  for  the  Quab- 
bin Reservoir  project,  in  which  his  hometown. 
North  Dana,  was  flooded.  Prior  to  his  retire- 
ment in  1972,  he  was  a  civilian  employee  for 
the  Department  of  Defense  Air  Force  Eastern 
Communications  Region. 

Mr.  Doubleday  was  a  well-known  Quabbin 
Reservoir  historian.  He  often  lectured  about 
pre-flood  days  in  the  area  and  had  memorabilia 
which  he  displayed.  A  past  president  of  the 
Swift  River  Valley  Historical  Society,  Mr. 
Doubleday  had  also  been  a  trustee  of  New  Salem 
Academy  and  a  member  of  the  Congregational 
Church,  the  Masons  and  Lambda  Chi  Alpha. 

Manning  HolofT,  '33,  president  of  Manning 
Holoff  Co. ,  manufacturers  of  Magna-Lite,  Los 
Angeles,  CA,  passed  away  on  March  28,  1982. 
A  Worcester  native,  he  was  born  on  March 
27,  1911.  After  graduating  as  a  mechanical  en- 
gineer from  WPI,  his  employers  included  Pratt 
&  Whitney  and  Ranger  Aircraft.  In  World  War 
II  he  was  chief  production  engineer  with  Rolls 
Royce,  then  works  manager  at  Indian  Motor- 
cycle in  Springfield,  MA,  and  production  man- 


ager with  McCulloch  Motors  in  California. 

Later  he  formed  Holoff  Construction  Co., 
and  built  custom  homes  in  the  Los  Angeles 
area.  In  the  1970s  he  developed  Magna-Lite, 
an  improved  lighted  magnifying  glass,  and 
founded  his  own  firm  to  manufacture  the  prod- 
uct. Recently  he  designed  a  large  reader  now 
sold  worldwide. 

William  F.  Atwood,  Jr.,  '36,  formerly  of  Wal- 
tham,  MA,  died  recently. 

He  was  born  on  July  27,  1913  in  Waltham. 
During  his  career  he  was  with  General  Dyestuff 
Corporation,  Boston,  D.E.  Cummings  Co., 
Newport,  ME,  and  Pacific  Mills,  Lawrence, 
MA.  Also  he  worked  for  the  Boston  Naval 
Shipyard  and  the  Philadelphia  Naval  Shipyard. 
He  received  his  BS  from  WPI  in  1936. 

Marvin  Handleman,  '41,  a  retired  chief  engi- 
neer for  the  American  Forces  Network  in  Ber- 
lin, West  Germany,  died  in  Hyannis,  MA,  on 
June  17,  1982.  He  was  63  years  old. 

Mr.  Handleman  was  born  on  August  6,  1918 
in  Paxton,  MA.  In  addition  to  WPI,  he  at- 
tended the  RCA  Institute  in  New  York  City. 
During  World  War  II,  he  was  in  the  U.S.  Army 
Signal  Corps  in  Europe.  From  1946  to  1948  he 
was  with  his  family's  real  estate  management 
business.  Later  he  joined  Radio  Free  Europe 
as  an  electronics  engineer  and  then  the  Amer- 
ican Forces  Network  in  Berlin  as  chief  engi- 
neer. He  belonged  to  the  Institute  of  Radio 
Engineers  and  the  IEEE. 

Stanley  S.  Ribb,  '41,  the  recently  retired  pres- 
ident of  Blackstone  Valley  Electric  Co.,  died 
in  Pawtucket,  RI,  on  June  4,  1982  at  the  age 
of  64. 

An  electrical  engineer,  he  joined  General 
Electric,  staying  with  the  firm  until  1959,  when 
he  went  with  Blackstone  Valley  Electric.  In 
1961  he  was  named  chief  engineer,  in  1968, 
vice  president  and  in  1971,  president. 

Mr.  Ribb  was  a  native  of  Worcester  and  a 
member  of  Sigma  Xi.  He  belonged  to  the  Ro- 
tary Club,  the  Masons,  the  Rhode  Island  Com- 
modores, the  Providence  Engineering  Society 
and  the  Electrical  League  of  Rhode  Island. 

Active  with  the  Boys'  Club  and  Community 
Library  Association,  he  was  also  a  past  chair- 
man of  the  Providence  AIEE  section  and  a 
former  vice  president  of  the  Rhode  Island 
chapter  of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association.  Dur- 
ing World  War  II  he  was  with  the  U.S.  Navy. 

John  H.  Quinn,  Jr.,  '42,  of  Santa  Rosa,  CA, 
passed  away  recently. 

He  was  born  on  July  19,  1920  in  Fitchburg, 
MA.  After  receiving  his  BSME,  he  joined 
NACA,  Langley  Field,  VA,  as  an  aerody- 
namics research  scientist.  Later  he  was  em- 
ployed by  Chance  Vought  Aircraft  and  Temco 
Aircraft.  After  leaving  Lockheed  Missiles  & 
Space  Co.,  Sunnyvale,  CA,  and  Martin  Co., 
Denver,  he  went  with  McDonnell-Douglas 
Astronautics  from  which  he  retired  in  1976  fol- 
lowing 34  years  of  continuous  employment  in 
aerospace. 

One  of  the  highlights  of  his  career  came  when 
he  helped  load  the  first  Polaris  submarine. 

Frank  S.  Jurczak,  '50,  died  unexpectedly  on 
June  10,  1982  in  New  Britain  (CT)  General 
Hospital.  He  was  58  years  old. 
Before  retiring  in  1981,  he  had  been  em- 


ployed by  United  Technologies  Corp.  and  its 
subsidiaries  for  31  years.  While  with  the  firm, 
he  served  in  various  capacities,  including  test 
engineer  for  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft,  East 
Hartford  and  as  manager  of  control  systems  at 
Turbo-Power  &  Marine,  Inc.,  Farmington. 

He  was  a  past  grand  knight  for  the  Knights 
of  Columbus.  Besides  being  involved  with 
Scouting,  he  belonged  to  Phi  Kappa  Theta, 
Tau  Beta  Pi,  Sigma  Xi  and  the  ASME.  He  was 
a  World  War  II  Army  veteran,  was  born  on 
December  16,  1923  in  New  Britain,  CT,  and 
received  his  BSME  from  WPI. 

John  E.  Leach,  '53,  class  head  agent,  died  of 
an  apparent  heart  attack  at  his  home  in  Fort 
Madison,  lA,  on  May  29,  1982. 

He  had  been  plant  manager  for  Du  Pont  in 
Fort  Madison  for  the  past  six  years,  having 
originally  joined  Du  Pont  in  1953  in  Philadel- 
phia. During  his  career  with  the  company  he 
held  numerous  manufacturing  and  technical  as- 
signments. He  was  mainly  involved  with  mak- 
ing paint  and  allied  polymers. 

Recently,  Mr.  Leach  was  instrumental  in  Du 
Pont's  donating  land  for  a  proposed  Fort  Mad- 
ison branch  library.  He  was  also  a  member  of 
Sigma  Phi  Epsilon,  the  Elks  and  the  local  coun- 
try club.  A  native  of  Rockingham,  VT,  he  was 
born  on  October  3,  1931.  He  received  his  BSCE 
from  WPI  in  1953  and  then  served  with  the 
U.S.  Army. 

Lt.  Col.  Thomas  J.  Merchant,  SIM'62  U.S. 
Army  Ret.,  died  June  23,  1982  in  Worcester 
at  age  60. 

He  was  born  in  Westboro,  MA,  graduated 
from  Wentworth  Institute  and  did  graduate  work 
at  WPI,  Holy  Cross  and  MIT.  Since  1949  he 
had  worked  for  Bay  State  Abrasives,  West- 
boro, MA,  where  he  was  an  environmental  and 
safety  coordinator. 

Mr.  Merchant  was  a  veteran  of  the  U.S.  Army 
Corps  of  Engineers  and  saw  action  in  World 
War  II  and  Korea.  He  belonged  to  the  Amer- 
ican Society  of  Safety  Engineers,  the  Reserve 
Officers  Association  (DC)  and  several  other 
military,  church  and  community  organizations. 
He  had  belonged  to  the  Westboro  town  advi- 
sory board  and  had  served  as  chairman  of  the 
board  of  selectmen. 

Roger  W.  Williams,  '65,  a  long-time  employee 
of  General  Electric  Co.,  died  at  his  home  in 
Lunenburg,  MA,  on  May  21,  1982  at  the  age 
of  44. 

After  graduating  from  the  University  of 
Maine,  he  received  his  MSME  from  WPI.  He 
worked  for  22  years  as  a  mechanical  engineer 
at  the  GE  plant  in  Fitchburg  and  was  the  re- 
cipient of  the  GE  Electric  Power  Systems  Sec- 
tor Award  in  1979. 

Mr.  Williams  was  also  affiliated  with  Tau 
Beta  Pi,  the  ASME  and  the  Elfun  Management 
Association  and  was  a  registered  engineer  and 
land  surveyor  in  Massachusetts.  He  was  born 
in  Westbrook,  ME. 

Joel  S.  Schoenholtz,  '68,  of  Upper  Saddle  River, 
NJ,  passed  away  in  May. 

A  native  of  New  York  City,  he  was  born  on 
March  24,  1945.  He  graduated  as  a  civil  engi- 
neer from  WPI.  During  his  career,  he  had  been 
with  Bethlehem  Steel  and  Custom  Chemical 
Co.,  Elmwood  Park,  NJ,  where  he  was  plant 
manager.  He  belonged  to  AEPi  and  Skull. 


CXrrOBER  1982  45 


Chairs 

Boston  Rocker 

Black  with  gold  trim  and  WPI  seal. 

Item  101  $100.00 

Armchair 

Black  with  gold  trim,  cherry- 
colored  arms  and  WPI  seal. 
Item  102  $115.00 

Both  rocker  and  armchair  have  seats 
approximately  18  inches  high. 


(Child's  jogging  suit 
IS  described  on  the 
following  page.) 


Rings 


WPI  Rings  are 
available  through 
the  Bookstore. 
Write  or  call  for 
further  information. 


Take  Stock 
in  WPI 


Whether  you're  stuffing  stockings  or 
stocking  up  for  reunion  or  homecom- 
ing, the  Bookstore  is  your  purveyor  of 
dozens  of  WPI  items  for  you,  your 
family  and  friends.  Form  and  function 
combine  tastefully  in  these  attractive 
reminders  of  your  membership  in  the 
WPI  community.  To  avoid  delay, 
order  now. 


aod" 


X^-r""^ 


Handboolcs 

Mechanical  Engineers'  Handbook 

List  Price  $55.00  / 

Item  112  WPI  price  $49.50 

Chemical  Engineers'  Handbook 

List  price  $59.50 

Item  113  WPI  price  $53.50 

Civil  Engineer's  Handbook 

List  price  $55.00 

Item  123  WPI  price  $49.50 


eMOlHtEBlMO 


Plates  and 
Paperweiglits 

Paperweight 

Gold-plated   seal   with   red   and 
white  enamel  detail,  mounted  on 
2"  X  2"  X  %"  Carrara  marble  with 
cork  base. 
Item  105  $3.50 

Plate 

10%"  Armatale  pewter-like  service 
plate  with  embossed  WPI  seal. 
Item  106  $17.95 


Ceramics  and  Glassware 

Ceramics  and  glassware  priced  per  item. 

Ceramic  items  decorated  with  multi-colored  WPI  seal. 


A.  16  oz.  Coed  $8.50 

B.  1 1/2  oz.  Mini-mug         $2.95 


C.  32  oz.  Jumbo  $9 

D.  24  oz.  Classic  $8 


E.  Salt  &  Pepper  shakers 
$4.95  p 


46  WPI  JOURNAL 


Ashtrays 

Glass  with  24kt  gold  and 
red  WPI  seal. 


F.  8"  size 

G.  4"  size 


$4.00 
$1.95 


i 

MB 

-A 

i 

-4 

'S 

— 

-> 

,i 

K  ' 

$' 

v>^-^ 

i^tfw 

^mt 

scr 

'^.■. 

p. 


Pennants 

Wool  Felt  Pennants 

Maroon  with  multi-colored  seal 

and  gray  letters. 

Size  12"  X  30" 

Item  103-A  $5.95 

Size  9"  X  24" 

Itenn  103-B  $4.95 


Shirts 

Hooded  Sweatshirt 

50%  creslan,  50%  cotton.  White  with  maroon 

design.  S-M-L-XL 

Item  122  $15.50 

Football  Jersey 

Stretch  nylon  knit  navy  mesh  body  with 
white  yolk  and  gold  seal.  S-M-L-XL 
Item  107  $9.50 

Snoopy  Jersey 

Interwelt  knit,  100%  combed  cotton.  Multi- 
colored design.  S-M-L-XL 
Item  108  $11.50 

Baseball  Shirt 

50%  cotton,   50%   polyester.   Natural/red. 
S-M-L-XL 
Item  120  $7.75 


Stuffed  Toys  wH  " 

III 


Teddy  Bear 

Approx.  9"  tall 

Item  109  $6.95 

Dog 

Approx.  7"  tall 

Item  110  $6.95 

Goat 

Approx.  8"  tall 

Item  111  $7.25 

fogging  Suits 

Child's  Jogging  Suit 

Maroon  with  white  trim,  cotton/ 

polyester 

Sizes — 12  mos.,  14  mos. 

2T  (27-32  lbs)  and  4T  (33-37  lbs.) 

Hooded  sweatshirt  Short-sleeved  t-shirt 

(not  shown)  (not  shown) 

Item  114  $8.75  Item  116  $5.75 

Long  pants  (not  shown)  Short  pants  (not  shown) 

Item  115  $6.25  Item  124  $5.50 


;sware  decorated  with  24kt  gold  and  red  WPI  seal. 


32  oz.  Brandy 
24  oz.  Brandy 


$4.95 
$4.25 


J 

:-j3Si\    «^ 

J 

tm  mi 
|5  • 

*ns^ 

15  oz.  Executive 
11  oz.  Executive 


$2.70 
$2.50 


c 

i 

c 

> 

^w 

^ 

K 

;  m  m.  % 

J.   4V2  oz.  Martini  $3.25 

K.  41/2  oz.  Whiskey  Sour    $3.25 
L.  eVaOZ-Wine  $3.50 


O.  15  OZ.  Dble.  Old  Fashioned 
$2.70 
P.  9  OZ.  Old  Fashioned    $2.25 
Q.  1 1/2  oz.  Shot  Glass       $1.55 


R.  15  oz.  Roly-poly  $2.70 

S.  11  oz.  Roly-poly  $2.50 


Order  Form 


No./ 
letter 


Item 


Size 


Qnty 


Cost 


Total 


Add  5%  Mass.  tax  if 

shipped  within  Mass. 

If  order  is  $5.00  or 

under,  add  $1.00. 

Total  enclosed 


Make  checks  or  money  orders  pay- 
able to  WPI  Bookstore.  Note:  Prices 
subject  to  change  without  notice. 
Shipping  costs  (on  items  shipped 
within  the  Continental  USA)  is 
prepaid  on  orders  over  $5.00.  On 
orders  of  $5.00  or  less,  please  add 
$1.00.  Rocker  and  armchair  shipped  FOB,  WPI  Bookstore.  All  items, 
except  clothing,  are  subject  to  5%  Mass.  sales  tax  if  shipped  within 
Massachusetts. 

Name 


Total 


Address 


City 


State 


Zip- 


Phone 


Mail  to:  WPI  Bookstore 
Daniels  Hall 

Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609 
Phone  (617)  793-5247 


CLASS  OFFICERS 


Class 

1912 
1913 
1914 
1915 
1916 
1917 
1918 
1919 
1920 
1921 
1922 
1923 
1924 
1925 
1926 
1927 
1928 

1929 
1930 
1931 
1932 
1933 


President 

J.  Francis  Granger 


Frank  Forsberg 

Glendon  M.  Pomeroy 
Walter  B.  Dennen 
Judah  H.  Humphrey 


Wayne  E.  Keith 

E.  Herbert  Higgins 
Carl  F.  Carlstrom 
Archie  J.  Home 
Clifford  I.  Fahlstrom 
Andrew  L.  Wilkinson 

Arthur  W.  Knight 
Daniel  F.  O'Grady 
Ralph  Hodgkinson 
Paul  E.  Nelson 


Secretary 

Ellwood  N.  Hennessy 
C.  LeRoy  Storms 
John  F.  Kyes,  Jr. 


Robert  E.  Chapman 
Phillip  H.  White 


Daniel  L.  Hussey 
Raymond  H.  Bjork 
William  M.  Rauha 
Gifford  T.  Cook 
Theodore  J.  Englund 
Holbrook  L.  Horton 
Carl  W.  Backstrom 
Edward  J.  Bayon 
Olof  W.  Nyquist 
Sumner  Sweetser 


"Adding  iwo  numbers  which  probably  have  never  been  added 
before  is  not  considered  a  mathematical  breakthrough. " 


1934  Everett  F.  Sellew 

1935  C.  Marshall  Dann 

1936  Donald  L.  Edmunds 

1937  William  E.  Carew 

1938  Richard  F.  Burke 

1939  Albert  J.  Raslavsky 

1940  Raymond  J.  Forkey 

1941  Donald  E.  Smith 

1942  Homer  R.  Arey 

1943  Edward  H.  Peterson 

1944  Irving  J.  Donahue,  Jr. 

1945  Robert  E.  Scott 

1946  Carl  F.  Simon,  Jr. 

1947  John  G.  Hambor 

1948  James  G.  McKernan 

1949  James  S.  Adams 

1950  Henry  S.C.  Cummings,  Jr. 

1951  Richard  E.  Ferrari 

1952  Harold  R.  Althen,  Jr. 

1953  David  G.  Holmes 

1954  David  F.  Gilbert 

1955  Peter  H.  Horstmann 

1956  Henry  W.  Nowick 

1957  William  C.  Rogler 

1958  Robert  S.  Jenkins 

1959  Donald  R.  Ferrari 

1960  Fidele  L.  DiPippo 

1961  Richard  S.  Adler 

1962  Richard  J.  DiBuono 

1963  William  C.  Zinno 

1964  Barry  J.  Kadets 

1965  Patrick  T.  Moran 

1966  Lawrence  A.  Penoncello 

1967  Raymond  C.  Rogers,  Jr. 

1968  Arnold  J.  Antak 

1969  Peter  T.  Grosch 

1970  Leonard  Polizzotto 

1971  Donald  P.  St.  Marie 

1972  John  Zorabedian,  Jr. 

1973  David  Hubbell 

1974  William  A.  Delphos 

1975  Patricia  Graham  Flaherty 

1976  William  K.  Johnson 

1977  Raymond  A.  Baker 

1978  Richard  R.  Poole 

1979  Lawrence  P.  Marino 

1980  Christopher  C.  Dennison 

1981  Frederick  D.  Rucker 

1982  Matthew  J.  Flynn 


Howard  A.  Whittum 
Raymond  F.  Starrett 
Harold  F.  Henrickson 
Richard  J.  Lyman 
Walter  E.  Knapp 

Robert  E.  Dunklee.  Jr. 
Russell  W.  Parks 
Roy  Bourgault 

John  G.  Underbill 

M.  Daniel  Lacedonia 
George  H.  Conley 

Paul  E.  Evans 
Howard  J.  Green 
Lester  J.  Reynolds,  Jr. 
Stanley  L.  Miller 
Edward  G.  Samolis 
David  S.  Jenney 
Roger  R.  Osell 
Ralph  K.  Mongeon,  Jr. 
Rev.  Paul  D.  Schoonmaker 
Robert  A.  Yates 
Harry  R.  Rydstrom 
Frederick  H.  Lutze,  Jr. 
Paul  W.  Bayliss 
John  J.  Gabarro 
Harry  T.  Rapelje 
Robert  E.  Maynard,  Jr. 
David  T.  Signori,  Jr. 
John  P.  Jacobson 
John  G.  Dyckman 
John  L.  Kilguss 
Charles  A.  Griffin 
Roger  W.  Miles 
F.  David  Ploss,  III 
Vincent  T.  Pace 
John  A.  Woodward 
Jay  J.  Schnitzer 
James  F.  Rubino 
James  D.  Aceto,  Jr. 
Paula  E.  Stratouly 
Kathleen  E.  Molony 
Cynthia  A.  C}rynick 
James  E.  Manchester 
Mark  F.  Riley 
William  C.  Alexander 
Ann  Marie  Noga 


48  WPI  JOURNAL 


AMPERSAND 


Equation  Fluency  Test 


This  test  does  not  measure  your  iritelli- 
gence,  your  fluency  with  words,  and  cer- 
tainly not  your  mathematical  ability.  It 
will,  however,  give  you  some  gauge  of 
your  mental  flexibility  and  creativity.  In 
the  years  since  the  test  was  developed, 
we've  found  few  people  who  could  solve 
more  than  half  the  24  questions  on  the 
first  try.  Many,  however,  reported  get- 
ting answers  long  after  the  test  had  been 
set  aside— particularly  at  unexpected  mo- 
ments when  their  minds  were  relaxed, 
and  some  reported  solving  all  the  ques- 
tions over  a  period  of  several  days.  Take 
this  as  your  personal  challenge. 

Instructions:  Each  equation  contains  the 
initials  of  words  that  will  make  it  correct. 
Finish  the  missing  words.  For  example: 
26  =  L.  of  the  A.  would  be  26  =  Let- 
ters of  the  Alphabet.  Correct — at  least 
plausible — answers  appear  below 


3qj  JO  sjqSijV  puE  sAb(7  =  ot' 
pjBoqj3>i09qj  B  uo  sajBnb^'  =  ^9 

JB3A 

dB97  B  ui  AiBnjqa^  ui  sXbqt  =  53 

SI  ajnjoy  e  jBqj  spjo^  =  OOOI 
uiBSj^  IjBqjoOj/  B  uo  SJ9ABIJ  =  \  \ 
S3ii3UB/i  zup//  =  ig 
apoj  di2  B  UI  sji§i(7  =  q 
3pAo\ufj  B  uo  I33q/W  =  I 
Ab(7  b  ui  sjno/y  =  pi 

UOI|B£)  B  UI  SJJEn^    =    f 

(un^ 
Xaqj,  Mo/y  335-)  3D1/V  pujiff  =  e 

doj^-  B  uo  S3pi5'  jqSiBJjy 
Aiodouo^ 

UI  OQ  §UISSB(/  JOJ  SJB110(7 

3|3UV  iqSl^  E  UI  S93j89(7 

S3Z33Jj/  J31E/^ 

qoiqM  IB  jpqusjqBj/  S93j§3(7 

3SinOJ  J|0£)  B  JO  S3|0// 

2\>\j  UBDusuiv  3q}  JO  ssduj^" 

sfiO)/  OUBIJ 

^318X5-  JBJO^-  3qi  JO  SJ3UE1J 

(SJ3>fO/- 

3qi  qilM)  >|D3(7  E  UI  spjEj 

3EJP02  9qi  JO  suSi^- 
siq^ijV  uBiqEit/ 

p|JO^ 
lU3put/  3qj  JO  SJSpUO/^    =   [_ 

j3qEqd|v  3qj  jo  SJ3}J37  =  % 


=  8  '^ 

=  OOZ       1 
=  06        ■>! 


81 

ei 


Pi 

Z\ 


•3 

■P 

=   lOOI      3 


e. 
f. 


Ralph  Brown,  Jr. 


a.  26  =  L.  of  the  A 

b.  7 

c.  1001 

d.  12 


W.  of  the  A.W. 

A.N 


S.  of  the  Z. 


54 
9 


g- 

88 

h. 

13 

i. 

18 

J- 

32 

k. 

90 

1. 

200 

m. 

8 

n. 

3 

0. 

4 

p. 

24 

q- 

1 

r. 

5 

s. 

57 

t. 

11 

u. 

1000 

V. 

29 

w. 

64 

X. 

40 

C.  in  a  D.  (with  the  J.) 

P.  of  the  S.S 

P.K 


S.  of  the  A.F. 
H.  of  a  G.C._ 


D.F.  at  which  W.F. 
D.  in  a  R.A 


D.  for  P.G.  in  M. 

S.S.  on  a  S.S. . 


B.M.  (S.H.T.R.) 

Q.  in  a  G. 

H.  in  a  D 


=  W.  on  a  U. 


D.  in  a  Z.C. 
H.V 


=  P.  on  a  F.T. 


W.  that  a  P.  is  W. 
D.  in  F.  in  a  L.Y.. 
S.  on  a  C 


D.  and  N.  of  the  G.F. 


4  '  ^  '\ 


M 


oumal 


INSTITUTE 


FEBRUARY  1983 

WOfflJEStHT 


POIYTMIC  INSTfTBTI 

FEB  21 


omevAtre 

between  a  gleaming  Tomorrow 

land  and  a  red'hot  cinder  lies 

die  likely  future  of  the  globe. 

But  where?  What  will  shape  that 

future?  Can  human  beings  evade 

their  own  preconceptions 

well  enough  to  guess? 


>\ 


A  MESSAGE 


The  WPI  Alumnus: 
A  Special  Breed 

A  message  from  Peter  H.  Horstmann, 
'55,  President,  WPI  Alumni  Association 

It  isn't  every  day  that  an  engineer-turned- 
businessman  gets  an  opportunity  to  au- 
thor an  article  for  the  WPI  Journal,  and 
it's  a  double  blessing  when  the  subject  is 
one  of  my  favorites — the  WPI  Alumni 
Association.  Let  me  share  with  you  our 
objectives  for  the  current  year  and  my 
sense  of  strength  and  vitality  in  our  alumni 
organization. 

An  integral  part  of  the  excellence  that 
surrounds  WPI  is  its  alumni  body.  At 
15,000  strong  and  growing,  we  are  by  far 
the  largest  group  within  the  college  com- 
munity. We  are  amazingly  diverse  and 
ever-changing.  More  than  300  women  now 
call  WPI  their  alma  mater.  Engineers — 
or  technological  humanists,  as  the  Plan 
now  defines  them — still  predominate,  but 
our  breadth  extends  to  doctors  and  den- 
tists, presidents  and  professional  athletes, 
consultants  and  legislators. 

Judging  by  our  achievements.  WPI  has 
indeed  educated  us  well  for  professional. 
as  well  as  community  and  personal,  life. 
Our  alumni  not  only  design,  develop  and 
build  around  the  world,  we  also  start  suc- 
cessful businesses,  make  scientific  discov- 
eries, lead  major  corporations,  and  gen- 
erally display  our  talents  in  all  sorts  of 
ways.  We  are  a  group  of  contributors — 
to  business  and  industry,  to  science  and 
technology,  to  our  communities  and  vol- 
unteer agencies,  and,  of  course,  to  our 
college.  It's  a  record  to  be  proud  of. 

The  Alumni  Association  exists  to  serve 
the  needs  of  alumni,  and  in  so  doing  to 
benefit  the  college.  These  needs  range  from 
a  general  desire  to  remam  mvolved  and 
in  touch  with  college  affairs,  to  more  spe- 
cific expressions  of  interest  and  commit- 
ment. 

The  annual  objectives  and  long-range 


goals  of  the  Association  are  designed  to 
meet  these  very  needs.  For  1982-83,  your 
Association  has  established  the  following 
objectives: 

1.  To  promote  growth  and  develop- 
ment of  regionally  oriented  programs, 
including  Regional  Clubs  and  the 
Corporate  Contacts  and  Alumni  Ad- 
missions programs.  This  focus  on  re- 
gional programs  is  a  direct  result  of 
widespread  alumni  interest  and  is  in- 
tended to  exploit  the  regional  com- 
monality among  the  several  programs 
to  their  collective  benefit. 

2.  To  enhance  the  image  and  profile 
of  WPI  alumni.  For  many  years,  and 
in  many  ways,  our  alumni  have  ex- 
pressed a  feeling  that,  as  WPI  alumni, 
we  do  not  always  experience  the  same 
degree  of  respect  and  recognition  of 
excellence  that  the  college  itself  does. 
In  fact,  the  general  public  is  not  al- 
ways as  aware  of  WPI's  excellence  as 
it  could  be.  Our  intention  is  to  help 
shine  a  brighter  light  on  both  our 
alumni  and  our  college. 

3.  To  study  the  organization  of  our 
Alumni  Office,  identifying  staff  and 
organizational  needs  for  the  future. 

4.  To  surpass  the  $1 -million  mark  in 
this  year's  Alumni  Fund. 

5.  To  maintain  the  excellence  of  all 
Association  programs  and  to  evaluate 
objectively  the  contributions  of  each. 
By  any  standard,  these  are  ambitious 

objectives.  They  demand  our  best  efforts 
in  order  to  succeed.  I  have  no  cioiiht.  how- 
ever, that  we  are  dealing  from  a  position 
of  strength  as  we  endeavor  to  reach  these 
goals.  Our  Association  aiul  its  |irourams 
have  made  tremendous  strides  in  recent 
years,  to  the  point  where  we  now  play  in 
the  major  leagues  ot  alumni  organiza- 
tions. 

Well  over  2,00(1  aliiinni  \oliinteers  work 
actively  on  behalf  ol  the  Association.  A 
total  of  6.000  of  us  either  volunleer  or 
participate  in  one  or  more  of  our  pro- 


grams. Last  year  alumni  contributions  to 
the  college  exceeded  $800,000,  and  we  are 
responsible,  directly  and  indirectly,  for 
distributing  more  than  $150,000  in  un- 
dergraduate scholarship  aid.  Our  Alumni 
Admissions  Program  reached  out  across 
the  country,  making  local  contact  with 
more  than    1,200  prospective  students. 

Our  Alumni  Office  staff  is  exceedingly 
talented  and  conscientious.  Their  contri- 
butions are  immense  and  invaluable.  As 
to  our  alumni  volunteers,  I  am  continually 
delighted  and  impressed  by  the  quality 
and  capabilities  of  the  men  and  women 
who  enthusiastically  and  effectively  do  the 
work  of  our  Association. 

You  should  know  that  the  efforts  and 
results  of  our  programs  have  been  widely 
heralded.  The  WPI  Alumni  Fund  is  one 
of  only  three  in  the  nation  to  be  recog- 
nized by  the  Council  for  the  Advance- 
ment and  Support  of  Education  (CASE) 
and  the  U.S.  Steel  Foundation  for  four 
consecutive  years  of  sustained  excellence 
in  college  fund  raising.  Our  alumni  pub- 
lications have  been  recognized  nationally 
for  excellence  in  design  and  presentation. 
Such  widespread  attention  is  important, 
to  be  sure,  but  our  most  gratifying  rec- 
ognition comes  from  WPI  itself.  From  the 
top  down,  the  college  is  strongly  com- 
mitted in  its  appreciation  and  support  of 
the  Alumni  Associaticm  and  our  pro- 
grams. 

Happily,  such  commitment  works  both 
ways.  As  we  work  to  benefit  WPI,  wc  gain 
a  continuing  sense  of  involvement  with  an 
institution  of  excellence,  the  pride  that 
comes  from  accomplishing  something 
worthwhile  for  our  alma  mater,  and  the 
pleasure  of  associating  with  the  marvelous 
people  found  in  the  WPI  community. 

We  as  alumni  are  a  key  element  of  the 
excellence  that  is  WPI.  .lust  as  WPI  is  a 
special  institution,  so  our  alumni  body  is 
truly  a  special  breed,  and  we  can  be  jus- 
tifiably proud  of  our  role  in  the  growth 
and  success  of  our  alma  mater. 


WPI  Journal 

WORCESTER  POLYTECHNIC  ^INSTITUTE 


VOLUME  86,  NUMBER  3 


Staff  of  The  WPI  Journal 

Editor,  Kenneth  L.  McDonnell 
Alumni  Information  Editor,  Ruth  S.  Trask 

Alumni  Publications  Committee:  Donald  E. 
Ross,  '54,  chair;  Robert  C.  Gosling,  '68;  Sam- 
uel W.  Mencow,  '37;  Roger  W.  Miles,  '69; 
Stanley  P.  Negus,  Jr.,  '54;  Judy  Nitsch,  '75. 

The  WPI  Journal  (ISSN  0148-6128)  is  pub- 
lished quarterly  for  the  WPI  Alumni  Associ- 
ation by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  in  co- 
operation with  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consor- 
tium, with  editorial  offices  at  the  Johns  Hop- 
kins University,  Baltimore,  MD  21218.  Pages 
I-XVI  are  published  for  the  Alumni  Magazine 
Consortium  (Franklin  and  Marshall  College, 
Hartwick  College,  Johns  Hopkins  University, 
Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute)  and  appear  in  the  re- 
spective alumni  magazines  of  those  institu- 
tions. Second  class  postage  paid  at  Worcester, 
MA,  and  additional  mailing  offices.  Pages  1- 
12,  29-40  ©  1983,  Worcester  Polytechnic  In- 
stitute. Pages  I-XVI  ©  1983,  Johns  Hopkips 
University. 

Staff  of  the  Alumni   Magazine   Consortium: 

Editor,  Elise  Hancock;  Business  Manager, 
Robert  Hewes;  Production  Coordinator,  Wendy 
Williams-Hauck;  Managing  Editor,  Mary  Ruth 
Yoe;  Designer,  Allen  Carroll;  Magazine  Fel- 
low, Pat  Rushin;  Senior  Writer,  Robert  Kanigel; 
Editorial  Assistant,  Edward  C.  Ernst. 

Advisory  Board  for  the  Alumni  Magazine  Con- 
sortium: Franklin  and  Marshall  College,  John 
Synodinos  and  Judy  Durand;  Hartwick  Col- 
lege, Philip  Benoit  and  Merrilee  Gomillion; 
Johns  Hopkins  University,  B.  J.  Norris  and 
Elise  Hancock;  Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute, Lynn  Holley  and  Robert  M.  Whitaker; 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,  Thomas  J. 
Denney  and  Kenneth  L.  McDonnell. 

Acknowledgments:  Typesetting,  Foto  Typeset- 
ters, Inc.;  Printing,  John  D.  Lucas  Printing 
Company;  Mailing.  Circular  Advertising  Com- 
pany. 

Diverse  views  on  subjects  of  public  interest  are 
presented  in  the  magazine.  These  views  do  not 
necessarily  reflect  the  opinions  of  the  editors 
or  official  policies  of  WPI.  Address  corre- 
spondence to  the  Editor,  The  WPI  Journal, 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester,  MA 
01609.  Telephone  (617)  793-5609.  Postmaster: 
If  undeliverable  please  send  form  3579  to  the 
address  above.  Do  not  return  publication. 


CONTENTS 


FEBRUARY  1983 


4  Getting  a  Gripper  on  the  Future 

WPI  and  industry  team  up  to  bring  the  latest 
in  robotics  to  the  plant  floor. 
Here  are  how  and  why. 
Kenneth  McDonnell 

8  Foreign  Exchange:  Global  Engineers 
and  Scientists  in  the  Making 

Student  and  faculty  perspectives  on 
studying  abroad,  WPI  style. 

I  What  We  Talk  About 
When  We  Talk  About  the  Future 

Western  culture  sees  the  future  in  terms 
of  change — but,  says  an  anthropologist, 
that  is  an  assumption,  not  a  given. 
Mark  Mosko 

IV  Future  Bound 

Climb  aboard  Spaceship  Earth  with  the 
Alumni  Magazine  Consortium — eavesdropping 
at  a  conference  of  World  Futurists. 
Gina  Maranto 

Homecoming  (Inside  back  cover) 

Departments 

News  from  the  Hill         2 

Projects:  From  atomic  blasts 
to  surgical  sutures         12 

Class  Notes        29 


Page  I 


Cover  illustration  by  Allen  Carroll. 


FEBRUARY  1983         1 


NEWS  FROM  THE  HILL 


A  Legacy  of  Excellence 

Pictured  above  are  students — a  portion  of 
the  WPI  Class  of  1986— who  gathered  with 
their  families  for  Freshman  Orientation 
Day  on  August  28.  Incidentally,  each  of 


these  incoming  students  has  one  parent 
who  is  a  WPI  grad.  Congratulations  and 
best  wishes  to  these  present  and  future 
alumni  and  their  families! 

Besides  the  12  freshmen  pictured,  an- 
other 14  sons  and  daughters  of  alumni 


entered  WPI  in  September.  And  of  the 
alumni  below,  one  gets  special  mention: 
Helen  G.  Vassallo.  With  a  1981  MBA 
from  WPI.  Vassallo  (who  also  has  her  MD) 
is  now  associate  professor  of  management 
at  WPI. 


r 


Parents  with  tradition.  In  the  first  row  (left  to  rif^ht)  are  Peter  H.  Horstmann,  '55,  President  of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association, 
Edwin  B.  Coghlin,  Jr.,  '56.  Patricia  Cof^hlin,  'H6,  Maureen  Coghlin,  WPI  President  Edmund  T.  Crancli,  Paul  Torcellini,  '86, 
Dottie  Torcellini,  Henry  Torcellini,  '63,  Robert  Torcellini.  Second  row:  Michael  Vassallo,  Jane  Firla,  William  J.  Firla,  J-r.,  '60, 
Suzanne  M.  Firla,  'H6,  Jowph  A.  Krans.  'H6.  Jcanneue  Krans,  William  C.  Krans,  '64.  Third  row:  Edwin  D.  Tenney,  '59, 
William  C.  Hees,  '59,  Willuim  P.  Hecs,  'H6,  liarharu  hay,  Cheryl  A.  Fay,  'H6,  James  E.  Fay,  '61.  Fourth  row:  Helen  G. 
Vassallo,  'HI,  Virginia  R.  Vassallo,  'H6,  Charles  Vassallo,  Roberta  Mellen,  Teresa  L.  Mellen,  'H6,  Lawrence  E.  Mellen,  '59. 
Fifth  row:  Charles  H.  (ioodpseed,  '67.  Stanley  W.  Ciraveline,  '5H,  Stephen  J.  (iraveline,  'H6,  Nicki  (iraveline,  Edward  E. 
AhLstrom,  '50,  Hilda  Ahlstrom.  Alan  R.  Ahlstrom.  'H6.  Sixth  row:  Charles  (ioodspeed,  Margo  Goodspeed,  Christine  G. 
Goodspeed,  'fid,  James  W.  Mahoney,  '59,  Irene  Mahoney,  David  A.  Mahoney,  '86. 


2        WPI   JOURNAL 


1 

Scorecard:  WPI  Fall  Sports 

Final  Results 

Varsity  Football  5-3 

'"■■■■1".'"  1 

"^Wii 

■■^^■j^TT       TJpWWSpSpP'^  f*S#,. 

1 

WPI  44      Fairleigh  Dickinson                0 
WPI  59      Coast  Guard                          32 

« 

bZF 

1 

^. 

WPI  26      Colby                                       3 

V    ^^^^^ 

WPI  18      Lowell                                      0 

m       ^Hh 

WPI  21      Hofstra                                   35 
WPI  13      Bates                                      21 

/• 

.i 

r:^L#A 

^HL 

£•11 

#•  ^^*- 

WPI    3      RPI                                          7 
WPI  27      Hamilton                                12 

^£ 

HjK' 

y^'^ 

1.    ^^m 

its           m 

Soccer  6-6-2 

^  J 

^r 

"  ^JJ^ 

WPI    2      Bentley                                    0 

iflyH 

^p«^- 

WPI    0      Wesleyan                          (OT)  0 

«WBp 

T#^' 

,^^W^- 

WPI    1      MIT                                  (OT)0 

^m 

WPI    3      Coast  Guard                            5 

m 

WPI    1      Lowell                                       0 

^  jp 

m 

^^m  Wi ..m    S . 

WPI    2      Trinity                                      1 

^m 

Cy 

▼  .  1  •  f 

WPI    3      Assumption                             0 

*ir 

M 

WPI    2      Holy  Cross                       (OT)  2 

_^C, 

,,V"'>^W 

WPI    0      Nichols                   .                  2 

^md^'L 

md^, 

"^ES^M^ 

WPI    1      Hartford                           (OT)  2 

mi 

X 

^ 

WPI    1      Brandeis                                    4 

'•'Ik 

fr- 

WPI    3      Clark                                        1 

mi 

r 

WPI    1      Bowdoin                                  2 

WPT      1        Rah<;nn                                                 7 

vv  r  1       X         jJdL'ijVJii                                                          ^ 

Chris 

Clancy,  right,  '85  EEB,  of 

Brain  tree, 

MA  helped  lead  the  Lady  Engineers 

to  a 

Women's  Tennis  5-5 

14-6-1  season  and  the  Massachusetts  Class  C  Tournament  championship. 

WPI    5      Emmanuel                                0 

WPI    4      Clark                                        3 

WPI 

0      Vermont 

2     \ 

VPI    1      Amherst                           (OT)  2 

WPI    5      Bryant                                       2 

WPI 

0      Union 

2    ^ 

VPI    4      Norwich 

2 

WPI    3      Assumption                             4 

WPI 

0      Clark 

2     \ 

VPI    0      Skidmore 

0 

WPI    2      Rhode  Island  College          '  5 

WPI 

0      Babson 

2      \ 

VPI    1      Fitchburg 

2 

WPI    2      Brandeis                                  5 

WPI 

0      Bryant 

2     \ 

VPI    3      Cortland 

4 

WPI    6      New  Hampshire  College         1 

WPI 

3      Fitchburg 

1 

(EAIAW  1st  Round) 

WPI    3      Suffolk                                     4 

WPI 

1      Simmons 

3     ^ 

VPI     4       Smith  (EAIAW  Consolation) 

2 

WPI    1      Worcester  State                      6 

WPI 

2      Regis 

1 

WPI    3      MIT                                         2 

WPI 

2      Bradford 

0    ( 

>oss  Country  1-10 

WPI 

0      Bentley 

2 

RPI 

25 

Volleyball  9-20 

WPI 

0      Holy  Cross 

2 

MIT 

32 

WPI    1      U.  Mass.                                  2 

WPI 

77 

WPI    0      Worcester  State                       2 

Field 

Hockey  14-6-1 

Lowell 

21 

WPI    0      Tufts                                          2 

WPI 

4      Anna  Maria 

1 

WPI 

36 

WPI    2      Amherst                                  0 

WPI 

3      Clark 

0 

WPI    0      Merrimack                                2 

WPI 

3      Assumption 

2 

Holy  Cross 

19 

WPI    0      RIC                                          2 

WPI 

4      Framingham 

0 

Assumption 

56 

WPI    2      Brandeis                                    1 

WPI 

2      Connecticut  College 

3 

WPI 

71 

WPI    2      Western  New  England            0 

WPI 

5      Franklin  Pierce 

2 

Clark 

114 

WPI    1      Stonehill                                    2 

WPI 

0      Clark 

0 

Holy  Cross 

20 

WPI    0      Assumption                             2 

WPI 

2      Nichols 

0 

WPI 

43 

WPI    0      Wheaton                                  2 

WPI 

0      Tufts 

1 

WPI    1      Coast  Guard                            2 

WPI 

1      Wheaton 

0 

Coast  Guard 

19 

WPI    0      Eastern  Connecticut  State      2 

WPI 

1       MIT 

0 

Babson 

54 

WPI    2      Amherst                                  0 

WPI 

3      WNE 

1 

WPI 

55 

WPI    2      Framingham                             0 

WPI 

0      New  England  College 

0 

Trinity 
WPI 

19 

WPI     1      New  Hampshire  College         2 

WPI 

2      Fitchburg 

(OT)  1 

30 

WPI    0      Williams                                   2 

WPI 

4      Smith 

1 

WPI    2      Bryn  Mawr                               1 

(State  Class  C  Tournament  Champion)   1 

Tufts 

24 

WPI    0      Wellesley                                 2 

WPI 

3      Worcester  State 

0 

WPI 

35 

FEBRUARY  1983 


When  Isaac  Asimov,  author  of 
more  than  260  science-fiction 
books,  recently  addressed  a 
spellbound  WPI  crowd  on  technology's 
role  in  history,  he  reminded  us  that  it  was 
he  who  coined  the  term  robotics.  To  take 
such  things  a  step  further,  the  term  robot, 
from  the  Czech  robota.  or  serf,  was  pop- 
ularized a  half-century  ago  by  the  Czech 
playwright  Karel  Capek. 

Today  robot  is  a  household  term,  and 
robotics  is  a  concept  ballyhooed  in  count- 
less board  rooms.  But  in  the  same  way 
that  the  uninitiated  may  conceive  of  ro- 
bots only  in  the  likeness  of  Star  Wars's 
R2D2,  executives  bent  on  bringing  to  their 
assembly  lines  what  they  may  consider  to 
be  state-of-the-art  gadgetry  may  be 
astounded  at  the  complexity  of  bringing 
to  their  plants  true  robotics — systems  of 
computerized,  reprogrammable  machin- 
ery that  can  move  parts  or  manipulate 
tools  through  pre-specified  sequences. 

The  stakes  involved  in  getting  up  to 
speed  in  today's  robotics  can  be  equally 
astounding.  Time  and  again,  robots  have 
been  shown  to  improve  productivity,  re- 
lieve workers  of  tedious,  dangerous  tasks, 
and  contribute  to  the  company's  compet- 
itive health.  But  all  for  a  price:  starting 
at  $30,000  and  soaring  into  the  millions 
for  hardware  alone,  not  to  mention  costs 
like  installation,  interfacing  with  existing 
machinery  and  maintenance. 

Of  robotics,  says  Professor  Donald  N. 
Zwiep,  Head  of  Mechanical  Engineering 
and  Director  of  WPI's  Manufacturing  En- 
gineering Applications  Center  (MEAC), 
"A  revolution  is  occurring  on  the  plant 
floor,  requiring  top-down  commitment  to 
rapid  deployment  of  existing  technol- 
ogy." The  manufacturers  first  to  gain  a 
foothold  in  this  emerging  field,  he  con- 
tends, will  get  a  head  start  in  domestic, 
and  possibly  foreign,  markets.  It  is  widely 
acknowledged  that  the  U.S.  is  hard  pressed 
to  compete  successfully  with  Japan  in  sales 
of  manufactured  goods,  in  productivity, 
and  in  profits.  In  large  part,  say  experts, 
this  state  of  affairs  is  due  to  Japan's  wide- 
spread application  of  robotic  technolo- 
gies— technologies  available,  and  often 
developed,  in  the  U.S.  "Developing  a 
corporate  critical  mass  in  robotics  is  es- 
sential to  effective  applicati(5n  of  robot- 
ics," says  Zwicp.  That,  and  exposing  stu- 
dents to  real-world  robotics  problems,  is 
MEAC's  mission. 

Enter  Hartford-based  Emhart  Cor- 
poration,  a  $1.8-billion  multina- 
tional giant  engaged  principally  in 
metalworkmg  manufacturing — shoe  ma- 


WPI  JOURNAL 


Getting  a  Gripper 
on  the  Future 


Robots  are  revolutionizing  the  plant  floor, 
forcing  industry  to  advance  quickly  on  the 
robotics  learning  curve.  WPI's  response  to 
this  challenge  starts  with  a  no-nonsense 
corporate-academic  bond. 

By  Kenneth  McDonnell 


terials  and  machinery,  glass  container  ma- 
chinery, rubber,  plastics  and  gear  ma- 
chinery, as  well  as  hardware  and  chemicals 
production.  Many  of  these  are  ideal  for 
robotics  applications. 

Walter  L.  Abel,  '39  ME,  is  Senior  Fel- 
low, Technology,  at  Emhart.  Abel  came 
to  Emhart  with  United  Shoe  Machinery 
when  Emhart  acquired  that  firm  in  1976. 
He  brought  with  him  ideas.  He  also 
brought  the  hard  realization  that  the  ro- 
botics revolution  would  surely  leave  the 
mighty  Emhart  foundering  in  the  wake  if 
the  conglomerate  didn't  act  quickly  and 
decisively. 

"We  built  a  robot  back  then,"  Abel 
recalled  recently,  "but  that  was  before 
microcomputers  came  along  and  enabled 
greatly  expanded  memories  and  flexibility 
in  robots."  Leave  robot  building  to  the 
robot  builders,  he  decided — Unimation, 
Cincinnati  Milacron,  GE,  ASEA,  and  so 
on. 

Concentrating  on  applying  existing  ro- 
botic technology,  Abel  realized,  made 
more  sense.  But  a  major  obstacle  re- 
mained, of  course:  finding  and  tapping 
the  resources  capable  of  actually  bringing 
these  advanced  technologies  onto  the  plant 
floor — "a  tricky  problem  all  users  are  going 
to  experience,"  he  contends.  He  ap- 
proached several  colleges  with  the  idea  of 
an  applications  center  before  it  became 
clear  to  him  that  WPi  possessed  the  unique 
balance  of  needed  resources. 

Abel  sits  on  the  Board  of  WPI's  Man- 


agement Department.  "Literally  over 
a  cup  of  coffee,  as  is  often  the  case," 
says  Arthur  Gerstenfeld,  Department 
Head  and  MEAC  founder,  "we  real- 
ized that  by  bringing  Emhart  engineers 
and  state-of-the-art  robots  into  the  neu- 
tral college  environment  and  conduct- 
ing student  projects,  faculty  research  and 
cooperative  WPI-Emhart  exercises,  we 
could  achieve  several  joint  objectives. 

"We  wanted  to  help  Emhart  get  its  ro- 
botics program  up  and  going,  establish  a 
growing  body  of  robotics  expertise  at  WPL 
and  prepare  future  engineers  for  the 
booming  growth  expected  in  robotics."  In 
reaching  these  goals,  he  says,  MEAC  has 
managed  to  avoid  the  classical  industry- 
academic  relationship,  where  industry 
provides  monies  to  the  college,  to  be  ap- 
plied toward  some  study  resulting  in  a  re- 
port seldom  read.  "No,  we  wanted — and 
have  achieved — a  true  partnership,  where 
each  side  gives  and  gains." 

In  March  1981 ,  MEAC  became  a  real- 
ity, when  Emhart  robots  were  wheeled 
into  WPI's  Washburn  Shops.  Now, 
located  in  an  expanded  Iliggins  Labs  set- 
ting, pending  Washburn  renovations,  the 
Center  provides  just  the  kinds  of  re- 
sources envisioned  in  those  earlier  Board 
coffee  breaks.  "Industry  needs  applica- 
tions quickly."  says  Abel,  "but  not  by  sac- 
rificing security."  Students  are  risk-tak- 
ers, he  believes,  forever  coming  up  with 
new  ideas.  "MEAC  enables  us  to  road 


Robots'  reach,  speed,  agility  and  cost 

help  determine  their  manufacturing 

applications.  ME  AC  engineers,  faculty 

and  students  match  company 

needs  with  specific  robotic 

capabilities.  Drawing  by 

Charlotte  Wharton. 


test  these  and  our  own  ideas  before  they 
reach  the  production  line,  thus  ensuring 
that  the  bugs  are  out  before  the  chips  are 
down." 

Several  projects  have  been  completed; 
others  are  under  way  or  planned.  The  first 
was  an  ideal  robotic  application:  endur- 
ance testing  of  pop  rivet  guns.  Normally 
a  human  task,  it  is  a  monotonous  and 
mentally  fatiguing  proposition,  requiring 
up  to  a  million  manual  loadings,  firings, 
and  ejections  of  spent  rivets.  Working 
closely,  WPI  faculty,  students  and  tech- 
nical advisors  combined  expertise  with 


Emhart  engineers  to  define  the  problem 
at  hand,  and  then  to  develop  an  automatic 
rivet  feeder  system,  a  loading  and  firing 
mechanism  (employing  a  Unimate  600  ro- 
bot) and  a  counter,  as  well  as  a  monitor 
to  record  precisely  what  takes  place 
(something  humans  do  not  perform  so 
carefully). 

A  second  project  used  a  Unimate  robot 
to  automatically  combine  two  press  op- 
erations in  the  production  of  doorknobs. 
Fetching  rough  parts,  feeding  them  into 
a  drawing  and  then  a  trim  press,  as  well 
as  simultaneously  lubricating  the  parts. 


were  the  Unimate's  appointed  tasks.  De- 
livery of  both  the  tool-tester  and  the  door- 
knob systems  was  achieved  four  months 
ahead  of  schedule.  Needless  to  say,  this 
experience  has  left  Emhart,  WPI  and  many 
in  the  industrial  world  very  pleased. 

Once  WPI  and  Emhart  had  decided  that 
such  a  close  academic-corporate  inter- 
change was  possible,  a  third  project  was 
undertaken.  This  project  addressed  ro- 
botized lock  assembly,  encompassing  ma- 
chine loading  and  materials  handling,  a 
ubiquitous  activity  in  industry  today,  but 
one  that  can  often  benefit  greatly  from 
the  use  of  robotics.  Here,  not  one  but  two 
robots  were  programmed — to  work  as  a 
team.  "The  beauty  of  this  project,"  says 
Gerstenfeld,  "was  that  the  actions  of  one 
robot  instructed  those  of  another.  We  were 
moving  away  from  islands  of  robots  work- 
ing independently  toward  networks  of  au- 
tomation— to  true  robotics,"  where,  he 
says,  the  output  of  one  robot  becomes  the 
input  of  another,  all  monitored  by  a  com- 
mon host  computer. 

Currently,  Professor  Robert  L.  Norton 
(ME)  supervises  some  25  students  en- 
gaged in  qualifying  projects  focusing  on 
several  aspects  of  Emhart's  operation. 
"They  call  themselves  the  'shoe-shankers' 
and  the  iock-polishers,'  "  he  says.  They 
work  in  what  he  terms  competitive  teams, 
with  each  team  approaching  the  same 
problem  from  a  different  viewpoint. 

The  shoe-shankers,  he  explains,  are  ap- 
plying existing  robotics  to  the  task  of 
wrapping  shoe  shanks,  thin  metal  plates 
that  stiffen  the  shoe  with  tape  before  they 
are  inserted  between  layers  of  sole  leather. 
Correct  taping  is  crucial,  he  says.  "Next 
time  your  shoes  creak  and  squeak  as  you 
walk,"  he  adds  wryly,  "you'll  know  that 
someone  got  careless  on  the  shoe  shank 
line."  And  no  wonder,  considering  how 
boring  the  taping  job  can  be  for  the  worker. 

Each  student  team  is  examining,  much 
as  a  consulting  engineer  would  do,  the 
feasibility  of  robotizing  the  taping  pro- 
cess: The  teams  visit  the  USM  plant,  iden- 
tify the  problem,  and  conduct  extensive 
background  research — including  an  over- 
view of  the  shoe  shank  industry,  Emhart's 
place  in  that  business,  shoe  manufactur- 
ers' needs,  and  robots  available  for  the 
task.  Finally,  each  team  specifies  the  tasks 
necessary  to  solve  the  problem. 

Similarly,  the  lock-polishers  investigate 
how  robots  can  provide  more  consistent, 
economical  results  in  a  traditionally  labor- 
intensive,  physically  demanding  task.  Both 
projects  will  include  post-implementation 
analysis  of  the  robots"  effectiveness,  and 
revision  and  improvement  of  the  systems. 


FEBRUARY  1983 


Says  Norton.  "Emhart's  receptiveness  to 
these  projects  has  been  fantastic." 

Last  year."  according  to  Professor 
Ben  Gordon,  "65  ME.  former 
Technical  Director  of  MEAC. 
"WPI  graduated  18  mechanical  engineer- 
ing students  with  robotics  experience." 
With  computer-aided  design  and  manu- 
facturing (CAD/CAM)  now  the  hot  item 
in  industry,  he  believes  recruiters  coming 
to  campus  will  be  more  and  more  inter- 
ested in  seniors  with  hands-on  experience 
in  these  exciting  new  fields.  Future  MEAC 
projects  will  focus  on  integrating  CAD 
and  CAM.  interfacing  with  WPI's  CAD 
lab.  and  thus  minimizing  the  need  for  hu- 
man intervention  in  the  design-manufac- 
turing process.  (See  "The  CAD/CAM 
Connection."  W^?lJounml.  August  1982.) 
Yet  the  kinds  of  projects  completed  and 
envisioned  for  MEAC  cut  across  several 
disciplines,  according  to  Morton  Fine,  '37 
CE.  MEAC's  Program  Administrator. 
They  encompass  electrical  engineering, 
computer  science,  social  sciences,  and 
other  fields. 

Currently,  robotics  installations  in  the 
U.S.  number  only  about  5.000.  while  Ja- 
pan boasts  three  times  this  figure.  But 
sales  are  taking  off.  say  industry  experts, 
reflecting  shifts  in  consumer  preferences 
c   and  growing  demand  for  customized 
I   products.  Because  of  this  need  for  greater 
Q  product  variety  and  quality,  financial  an- 
I  alysts  expect  sales  to  soar  from  $100  mil- 
S  lion  in  1980  to  $2  billion  by  decade's  end. 


Robots  at  work.  Top:  Seico  and  Uni- 
mate  robots  cooperate  on  a  delicate  lock 
assembly  operation.  Right:  MEAC's 
ASEA  robot.  Above:  Flanked  by  Bruce 
Daube  (Lh  'S3  ME,  of  Simsbury.  (T. 
and  John  Moore,  'H3  ME.  of  Portland. 
ME,  Professor  or  Robert  E.  Norton 
(ME)  instructs  an  ASEA  rifo^ed  and 
programmed  for  welding. 


WPI   JOURNAL 


And  if  IBM  plunges  into  the  field,  say 
most,  the  market  could  balloon  even  more. 

"At  Emhart,"  says  Wally  Abel,  "we're 
gearing  up  now  for  the  competitive  battles 
we  see  looming  on  the  horizon  as  a  result 
of  available  and  rapidly  developing  ro- 
botics technologies."  MEAC,  he  be- 
lieves, has  provided  the  competitive  edge 
Emhart  naturally  seeks. 

"The  beauty  of  MEAC,"  says  Tech- 
nical Director  David  Asmus,  "is  that  it's 
not  just  a  think  tank.  Applications  are 
what  industry  needs,  and  adapting  state- 
of-the-art  technologies  to  unique  situa- 
tions— often  requiring  wholesale  conver- 
sion of  stock  robots — is  MEAC's  value  to 
industrv  and  education." 


Though  MEAC  presently  brings  to 
campus  only  Emhart  projects  and 
the  robots  owned  or  leased  by  the 
company,  WPI  is  committed  to  welcom- 
ing additional  corporations  into  this  un- 
common partnership.  "When  it  comes  to 
robotics,  companies  are  talking  to  each 
other,"  Director  Zwiep  says,  "naturally 
not  about  product,  but  certainly  about 
process."  Japan's  perceived  lead  in  man- 
ufacturing, he  says,  has  broken  through 
many  a  barrier  between  U.S.  firms  com- 
peting with  the  Japanese  and  other  Asian 
and  European  nations  in  tight  markets. 

Together  with  MEAC's  sister  program, 
the  Center  for  Management  of  Advanced 
Automation  Technology  (MA AT),  fledg- 


ling robotics  users  can  now  develop  more 
prudent  approaches  to  applying  and  man- 
aging existing  automated  technologies.  In 
the  future,  MEAC  will  also  invite  com- 
panies to  attend  short  courses,  briefing 
sessions,  and  tours,  enabHng  a  modest  in- 
vestment to  result  in  real  benefits  without 
total  commitment  of  the  firm. 

According  to  Dean  of  Faculty  Ray  E. 
Bolz,  accommodating  MEAC's  antici- 
pated growth  will  call  for  the  college  to 
acquire  several  of  its  own  robots  for  ed- 
ucational and  corporate  projects,  to  com- 
plement those  brought  in  by  MEAC  par- 
ticipating companies.  "By  next  summer," 
he  says,  "we  plan  to  have  several  more 
firms  and  robots  on  board." 


The  Eyes  Have  It 

An  increasing  variety  of  automated 
.tasks,  from  welding  and  grinding  ir- 
regular surfaces,  to  inspecting  parts  and 
monitoring  empirical  research,  to  con- 
trolhng  video-guided  missiles  and  fore- 
casting the  weather,  call  for  continual  ad- 
justment of  the  machinery  as  the  task 
proceeds.  Normally  easy  for  humans,  sen- 
sing and  responding  to  ever-changing 
stimuli  are  exceedingly  difficult  for  robots 
and  other  automated  equipment.  And  not 
surprisingly,  developing  even  rudimen- 
tary vision  to  assist  automation,  for  ex- 
ample, in  orienting  work  pieces  or  iden- 
tifying damaged  parts,  looms  as  one  of 
the  stickiest  challenges  facing  research- 
ers. 

"Image  processing,  or  computerized  vi- 
sion," says  Professor  Robert  J.  Schalkoff , 
EE,  "is  an  area  of  artificial  intelligence 
which,  when  fully  developed,  will  imbue 
automation  with  a  large  dose  of  'blue-col- 
lar' humanness.  The  difficulty  in  simulat- 
ing vision  through  known  means  helps  us 
appreciate  just  how  marvelous  and  often 
taken  for  granted  our  sense  of  sight  is." 

Schalkoff  leads  a  small  but  active  group 
of  faculty  and  student  researchers  looking 
at  alternative  ways  of  coupling  cameras 
and  computers.  The  hard  part,  he  be- 
lieves, is  not  in  enabling  robots  to  see,  but 
in  getting  them  to  reason  visually,  to 
"think,"  if  you  will. 

Today's  most  advanced  robots,  for  ex- 
ample, use  any  of  several  vision  systems, 
such  as  digital  comparison  of  computer- 
converted  camera  images  with  templates 
stored  in  the  computer's  memory.  When 
the  computer  "discovers"  a  similar  set  of 
information — such  as  the  area,  perimeter. 


and  diameter  of  an  object — it  "recog- 
nizes" instantly  what  it  is  looking  at,  but 
only  if  object  and  template  match  closely 
enough.  Other  methods  are  available,  but 
the  results  are  similar:  To  be  commer- 
cially feasible  and  as  effective  as  human 
sight — perceiving  depth,  seeing  in  stereo, 
or  merely  distinguishing  objects — current 
vision  systems  would  have  to  be  a  million 
times  faster  and  far  more  adaptable. 

The  research  of  Schalkoff  and  others  in 
EE,  including  Professors  John  A.  Orr  and 
David  Cyganski,  indicates  that  a  major 
roadblock  to  effective  image  processing  is 
insufficient — or  inappropriate — com- 
puter power.  What's  needed,  he  believes, 
is  a  completely  new  computer  architec- 
ture, divorced  from  today's  von  Neu- 
mannesque  approaches.  The  underlying 


structure  of  the  computer,  he  says,  should 
reflect  the  type  of  data  being  examined. 
"Since  vision  consists  of  simultaneously 
interpreting  many  non-numeric  symbols, 
which  are  not  easily  quantifiable,  it  seems 
only  logical  that  the  'thinking'  of  com- 
puters should  reflect  this  task  as  closely 
as  possible."  In  Atwater  Kent's  sparkling 
new  labs,  faculty  and  student  research  is 
focusing  on  this  challenging  endeavor. 

Some  experts  see  the  day  when  robots 
will  be  driving  cars  far  more  safely  than 
their  creators  possibly  could.  As  back-seat 
drivers,  we  will  watch  our  steely-eyed 
chauffeurs  negotiate  oncoming  curves, 
signals,  and  traffic  with  unerring  preci- 
sion. But  in  the  eyes  of  Bob  Schalkoff,  at 
least,  this  scenario  is  a  long,  long  way 
from  reality. 


Professor  Robert  J.  Schalkoff  teaches  machines  to  see. 


FEBRUARY  1983        7 


Foreign  Exchange: 

Global  Engineers  and  Scientists  in  the  Making 


This  year  marks  the  beginning  of  the  second  decade  of 
WPrs  Student  Exchange  Program  with  foreign  tech- 
nical universities.  Since  1972.  some  150  British  and 
American  students  have  participated  in  academic  exchanges 
with  our  chief  partner — The  City  University  in  London's  his- 
toric district  near  St.  Paul's  Cathedral  and  the  Tower.  In  ad- 
dition, other  WPI  students  have  spent  semesters  at  Trent 
Polytechnic  in  Nottingham.  England;  the  Federal  Technical 
University  (where  Albert  Einstein  studied)  in  Zurich,  Switz- 
erland: and.  most  recently,  with  the  Royal  Institute  of  Tech- 
nology in  Stockholm,  Sweden.  A  new  program  in  Munich, 
Germany,  is  in  late  stages  of  development.  In  fact,  WPI  now 
offers  more  opportunities  to  study  in  more  locations  abroad 
than  any  other  U.S.  college  of  engineering  and  science. 

Unlike  many  other  exchange  programs,  WPI's  program 
places  third-  and  fourth-year  students  directly  in  British, 
Swiss,  or  Swedish  classes  at  the  foreign  university.  Our  stu- 
dents usually  live  in  dormitories  with  a  cosmopolitan  mixture 
of  native-speaking  and  other  foreign  students.  To  ensure  that 
their  academic  programs  proceed  in  proper  fashion,  most 
WPI  students  concentrate  on  research  for  IQPs  which  con- 
trast American  and  foreign  practices  for  applying  technology 
to  social  needs  and  concerns.  Many  students  also  work  on 
humanities  Sufficiencies  by  studying  European  art,  history  or 
literature,  or  (for  Sweden  and  Switzerland)  foreign  languages 
and  cultures.  And  despite  costs  and  time  demands,  almost 
everyone  makes  good  use  of  travel  opportunities  in  Europe. 

Participating  in  a  foreign  exchange  may  become  increas- 
ingly vital  to  the  education  of  WPI  students,  for  it  can  con- 
tribute in  real  terms  to  successful  careers  in  engineering,  sci- 
ence and  management.  Day  by  day,  news  stories  remind  us 
of  how  international  in  scope  science,  technology  and  busi- 
ness have  become. 

One  recent  alumnus  of  the  London  program  stopped  by 
WPI  not  long  ago,  on  his  way  to  a  new  assignment  in  Saudi 
Arabia.  The  exchange,  he  explained,  had  whetted  his  appe- 
tite for  working  overseas. 

Recently,  about  25  participants  in  WPI's  exchange  pro- 
gram gathered  for  an  informal  discussion.  There  were  U.S. 
students  preparing  for  or  recently  back  from  Europe,  British 
students  studying  stateside,  faculty  from  WPI  and  abroad. 
Tlic  purpose  of  this  forum  was  to  share  experiences,  percep- 
tions and  expectations  about  the  Exchange  and  student  life 
abroad,  and  to  compare  notes  on  British  and  U.S.  education. 
What  follows  are  excerpts  from  that  lively  session  where,  for 
one  thmg.  we  learned  that  academics  is  only  part  of  the  Ex- 
change experience. 

Professor  Lance  Schachlcrlc  (HU) 
Student  Exchange  Program  Coordinator 


Question:  What  do  students  gain  from  being  part  of  the 
Exchange? 

Christopher  Heyl,  '84,  ME  (Planning  to  study  at  City  Uni- 
versity. Spring  1983):  It's  a  great  opportunity  to  get  to  Eu- 
rope and  study  in  a  different  environment — and  a  great 
chance  to  see  Europe  for  a  reasonable  price. 

Keith  Agar,  '83,  EE  (Spent  Fall  1981  at  City):  City's 
strong  emphasis  is  in  engineering.  But  the  manner  in  which 
the  courses  are  taught  is  totally  different  from  the  American 
system  of  education.  The  Exchange  is  valuable  in  enabling 
you  to  see  how  other  people  learn.  And  the  project  opportu- 
nities are  diverse  in  Europe. 

Roger  Weber,  '84,  CE  (To  City,  Spring  1982):  City  is 
really  different.  You  take  seven  courses,  and  each  course 
meets  once  a  week.  The  course  work  varies  from  course  to 
course,  of  course  [laughter].  During  the  first  half  of  the  year 
we  take  it  easy,  but  then  we  start  working  harder  and 
harder.  Finally,  in  the  last  three  weeks,  we  really  go  nuts! 

Mark  Palmer,  '84,  CS  (Trent  Polytechnic,  now  at  WPI): 
Back  home  we  cram  for  exams  at  the  end  of  the  year.  It 
seems  that  in  the  U.S.  you  cram  every  couple  of  weeks  for 
exams.  At  Trent  you  tend  to  build  up  a  large  body  of  knowl- 
edge over  the  course  of  a  year. 

David  Holden,  '82,  CS  (Trent,  now  at  WPI):  I'd  like  to 
add  something.  I  had  the  opportunity  of  working  here  in  the 
co-op  system,  and  that  was  a  very  valuable  experience  for 
me. 

Gwyn  Crouch,  '85,  MA  (To  Trent.  Winter  1983):  On  a 
more  personal  level,  is  European  teaching  more,  or  less,  per- 
sonalized than  in  the  States? 

Kirsteen  ("Kiki")  Hodgson,  '83,  MG  (City,  now  at  WPI): 
At  City  University  at  least,  you  find  that  you're  not  allowed 
to  ask  questions  in  lecture,  because  the  classes  tend  to  be 
much  larger,  and  the  professor  doesn't  want  his  lecture 
schedule  delayed  by  questions.  Questions  and  discussions 
must  wait  until  free  time. 

John  Mansour,  '83,  PH  (To  City.  Fall  1981):  I  found  that 
some  of  the  courses  we  took  didn't  have  many  students  and 
weren't  as  impersonal.  Classes  were  more  formal  than  I  was 
used  to,  but  not  to  the  point  where  you  couldn't  ask  ques- 
tions in  lecture. 

Keith  Pugh,  '84,  CS  (City,  now  at  WPI):  At  Trent  it's 
fairly  informal.  The  classes  are  small,  and  you  can  approach 
the  professors. 

Keith  Agar:  City  doesn't  seem  to  offer  such  an  integrated 
system  of  teaching  as  U.S.  schools.  If  you're  a  civil  engineer, 
British  schools  have  a  program  designed  for  you.  In  electrical 
engineering,  you  have  a  different  program  of  studies.  Within 
each  department,  they  teach  you  all  the  necessary  outside 


WPI   JOURNAL 


"The  Exchange  gives 
you  a  whole  new 
perspective  on 
education  and 
people." 


David  Holden 


Chris  Heyl,  Gwyn  Crouch,  Paul  Wilhams 


courses,  like  mathematics  and  chemistry,  but  it's  all  within 
one  department.  It  is  such  a  difference  in  teaching  tech- 
niques that  you  can't  really  count  on  the  courses  .you  take 
over  there  to  back  up  the  courses  that  you  have  here.  You 
get  a  new  and  different  perspective  on  how  to  learn  once 
you're  over  there. 

John  Mansour:  At  City  there  are  no  formal  textbooks  and 
everything's  taught  verbatim  from  the  notes  the  professor  has 
set  up  for  his  lecture.  Here,  I'd  be  lost  without  a  textbook 
for  all  of  my  courses,  but  over  there  the  professor  suggests 
books  for  the  course. 

Professor  Keith  Jacques  (University  of  Stirling,  Scotland): 
You've  pretty  much  covered  the  whole  spectrum  of  possibili- 
ties in  all  British  universities.  Each  method  is  committed  to 
solving  problems  in  one  form  or  another.  The  modern  sub- 
jects— like  management,  for  example — tend  to  be  less  formal 
than  the  traditional  subjects.  But  it  does  depend  on  the  insti- 
tution. 

Robert  Catino,  '83,  CS  (To  City,  Spring  1982):  From  what 
I've  seen  in  my  IQP  on  comparative  engineering  education 
[see  box,  p.  11],  the  British  student's  work  is  based  pretty 
much  upon  formal  examination,  whereas  in  America  it's 
more  of  a  continuous  assessment. 

Kiki  Hodgson:  That  depends  on  the  department.  In  my 
department — management — course  work  throughout  the  year 
counts  40  percent  of  the  final  grade.  So  the  exams  count  only 
60  percent. 

Bob  Catino:  In  England  there's  a  much  narrower  scope  of 
educational  institutions,  because  there  exists  a  different  sys- 
tem of  accreditation.  Here  we  have  the  American  Board  for 
Engineering  Technology  [ABET],  which  accredits  each  de- 
partment at  each  institution.  The  U.K.  has  what's  called  an 
external-examiner  system,  where  professors  from  different 
institutions  assess  each  other's  programs.  In  that  way  they  try 
to  ensure  that  the  education  offered  at  one  institution  is 
nearly  equal  to  that  of  every  other  institution. 

Professor  Jacques:  I  would  agree  with  that. 

Question:  Let's  talk  about  your  project  experiences. 

Chris  Heyl:  I'm  going  to  City  University  next  spring  to 
complete  my  WPI  Sufficiency  requirement  on  the  origins  of 
the  Royal  Society. 

Gwyn  Crouch:  I'm  going  to  Trent  next  spring  to  do  a  Suf- 
ficiency in  drama.  I'll  be  researching  realism  and  the  contem- 
porary end  of  the  drama  in  England  and  comparing  it  to  that 
of  America. 

Paul  Williams,  '84,  EE  (To  Trent,  Spring  1983):  I'll  be 
doing  an  IQP  on  the  economics  of  the  branch  lines  of  British 
railways,  not  the  glamorous  ones,  but  the  not-so-glamorous 
ones,  which  some  people  want  to  get  rid  of  and  some  people 


want  to  keep.  It's  very  controversial.  It's  part  of  what  a  lot 
of  people  at  WPI  are  studying  for  their  IQPs. 

Frank  Dunn,  '83,  EE  (To  City,  Fall  1982):  I  did  an  IQP 
on  the  electrication  of  the  British  rail  system.  The  Railroads 
Group,  as  we're  called,  studies  different  countries'  rail  sys- 
tems. Some  do  the  U.S.  railroads,  some  the  British,  some 
the  Swiss.  All  the  reports  are  compiled,  so  you  can  compare 
nations.  With  this  as  background,  exchange  students  know 
where  to  start,  and  you  can  get  to  the  important  sources  of 
information  quickly. 

Roger  Weber:  I  compared  English  and  American  building 
design  with  respect  to  energy  efficiency. 

John  Matthews,  '84,  EE  (To  City,  Spring  1983):  My  IQP 
will  be  a  comparative  study  of  the  Reagan  and  Thatcher  eco- 
nomic policies  and  how  they  affect  technological  innovation 
of  affected  countries. 

Kevin  Cavanaugh,  '83,  EE  (To  City,  Spring  1982):  I  did 
my  IQP  on  the  British  telecommunications  industry.  I  met 
many  of  the  people  in  City's  EE  Department  as  well  as  peo- 
ple in  industry  and  the  Departments  of  Industry  and  of 
Trade.  I  spent  an  hour  or  two  with  these  people,  took  tea 
with  them,  and  had  quite  an  enjoyable  time. 

Keith  Agar:  Right.  Just  being  a  foreign  student  helps  im- 
mensely in  getting  in  touch  with  people  who  are  more  than 
willing  to  talk  to  you. 

Question:  Kiki,  why  did  you  come  to  WPI  as  a  Manage- 
ment major? 

Kiki  Hodgson:  The  management  courses  I  take  at  WPI 
are  very  different  from  those  I  take  back  home.  But  mostly 
I'm  attracted  by  the  cultural  experience  of  the  Exchange. 
Everybody's  talking  about  academics,  but  I  think  the  cultural 
aspect  is  probably  the  major  thing  that  attracts  many  students. 

John  Mansour:  Keith  [Agar]  and  I  arrived  in  England  a 
few  weeks  before  classes  started.  We  spent  a  week  in  Lon- 
don. There  were  lots  of  students  there  from  all  over  the 
world.  Then  we  went  to  Scotland  for  a  week,  staying  in  hos- 
tels and  "bed-and-breakfasts." 

Matthew  Turner,  '83,  EE  (To  Trent,  Spring  1982):  I  lived 
with  an  elderly  couple  a  few  miles  from  Nottingham.  Living 
off-campus  tends  to  increase  the  cost  of  the  Exchange,  be- 
cause you  have  to  use  public  transportation  every  day,  but  if 
I  had  to  do  it  over  again,  I'd  do  it  the  same  way.  You  get  to 
see  the  British  way  of  life  a  lot  more  closely  when  you're  ac- 
tually Uving  within  it.  After  all,  that's  what  you're  going  over 
for,  to  see  what  England's  like. 

Dave  Holden:  I'm  enjoying  the  opportunity  of  living  in  a 
fraternity  at  WPI.  It's  a  very  interesting  experience.  I  had  no 
idea  what  fraternities  were  like  before  I  came  to  the  States. 

Eileen  Kelleher,  '84,  CE  (To  Stockholm,  Summer  1982): 


FEBRUARY  1983 


"The  cultural 
element  of  the 
Exchange  attracts 
students  as  much  as 
the  academics. " 


Kevin  Cavanaugh 


London's  Northanipion  Square  in  springtime 


Even  though  most  people  speak  English  in  Stockholm,  if  I 
had  stayed  with  a  family  I  would  have  learned  a  lot  more 
Swedish  and  a  lot  more  about  the  Swedish  culture. 

Question:  What  is  student  life  like  in  Europe?  Social  and 
campus  activities,  clubs,  things  like  that. 

Mark  Graves,  CS  (Trent,  now  at  WPI):  The  social  life  in 
Britain  is  a  lot  quieter  than  in  the  U.S..  from  what  I've  seen. 

Keith  Agar:  I  thought  it  was  just  the  reverse  at  City  Uni- 
versity. There  are  quite  a  variety  of  activities  that  always 
seemed  to  be  going  on.  Some  of  the  fraternity  parties  were 
more  classy  than  typical  parties  here. 

Professor  Sam  Woolford  (Mathematics,  on  faculty  ex- 
change last  year  at  Trent):  In  England  the  social  life  centers 
about  the  pub.  which  is  a  completely  different  type  of  social 
atmosphere  than  you'll  find  here.  I  think  it  works  out  to  be 
about  the  same  as  our  social  system,  except  maybe  it's  less 
formal  than  our  fraternity  or  organized  parties.  The  pub  is 
one  of  the  prime  places  where  you'll  meet  English  people. 
where  you'll  see  the  English  social  system  in  practice.  I  think 
some  of  the  attitudes  and  things  you'll  learn  there  are  very 
pleasant,  very  nice. 

Professor  Jacques:  I  presume  people  have  just  about 
enough  pocket  money  to  buy  other  things  besides  beer,  espe- 
cially if  you're  in  a  place  like  London.  There's  an  enormous 
amount  to  do  in  London,  but  spend  a  few  weekends  in  other 
parts  of  the  country,  because  London  is  not  fully  representa- 
tive of  Great  Britain  at  all. 

Kiki  Hodgson:  As  any  great  city  does,  London  offers  a 
great  many  facilities — theaters,  cinemas,  nightclubs  and  mu- 
seums. And  I  think  sports  are  taken  much  more  seriously 
here  than  at  City. 

Bob  Catino:  I'd  like  to  add  a  word  about  travel.  Traveling 
in  England — and  elsewhere  in  Europe — is  ridiculously  easy — 
when  the  trains  are  running.  It's  great  to  simply  get  on  a 
train  and  say,  "That  looks  like  a  nice  place,"  and  go  there. 
If  you  have  a  British  Rail  pass,  you  can  just  get  on  and  get 
off  anywhere  and  walk  around  the  town  and  find  a  bcd-and- 
breakfast  or  a  hostel. 

Kiki  Hodgson:  True,  and  a  Eurail  Pass  or  Interail  Pass  is 
a  very  good  and  inexpensive  idea  for  European  travel. 

Mark  Graves:  Americans  seem  a  lot  more  open  and  a  lot 
more  friendly  than  the  British.  But  when  you  go  to  England, 
don't  feel  we're  unfriendly,  we're  just  rather  introverted. 
English  people  seem  really  quiet  to  start  with,  but  they're 
pretty  friendly  underneath. 

Professor  Jacques:  I  think  that  applies  even  more  when 
you  get  out  into  the  provinces. 

Professor  Woolford:  It's  probably  the  same  anywhere  in 
the  world  that  you  go.  You  will  be  received  in  England  in 


probably  the  same  way  that  British  students  feel  that  they 
have  been  received  here. 

John  Mansour:  That's  really  true.  The  British  are  very 
helpful  and  very  friendly. 

Professor  Willy  Eggimann  (EE.  Coordinator  of  the  Swiss 
Exchange):  One  of  the  advantages  of  the  Swiss  and  Swedish 
exchanges  and  of  the  German  Exchange,  which  we  plan  to 
organize  soon,  is  that  you  have  to  learn  a  foreign  language. 
We  handled  it  fairly  well  with  the  Swiss  Exchange,  and  the 
German  exchange  will  be  even  easier  because  we  have  a  very 
good  German  language  program  at  WPI.  But  there's  no  op- 
portunity to  learn  Swedish  m  Worcester.  So  I  offer  a  Swed- 
ish course  on  cassette  tapes.  This  should  be  sufficient  to  fa- 
miliarize you  with  the  language. 

Question:  What  words  of  advice  can  any  of  you  offer  stu- 
dents preparing  for  or  interested  in  the  Exchange? 

Keith  Agar:  Living  in  the  City  University  subsidized  hous- 
ing helps  tremendously,  because  London  is  so  expensive.  I'm 
not  sure  of  the  exact  figures,  but  it  didn't  break  me.  Summer 
jobs  help  a  lot.  As  far  as  suggestions  for  students  going  over, 
I  think  it's  critical  that  you  get  knowledge  about  the  Ex- 
change Program  at  least  by  the  end  of  your  freshman  year. 
You  should  plan  your  schedule  very  carefully  for  the  next 
three  years,  because  you  want  to  make  sure  that  you're  not 
missing  anything  essential  for  graduation. 

Bob  Catino:  Just  be  open-minded.  Go  abroad  to  get  the 
project  work  done,  but  to  have  a  good  time  as  well.  Don't 
forget  the  Continent  is  only  26  miles  away. 

Professor  Bruce  McQuarrie  (Mathematics.  Coordinator  of 
the  Trent  Exchange):  Be  flexible  when  you  go.  If  there's  one 
thing  you  can  count  on,  it's  that  things  will  be  different. 
They  won't  be  better,  they  won't  be  worse.  They  will  simply 
be  different. 

Keith  Agar:  That's  good  advice.  It  might  be  naive,  but 
before  I  went  to  England,  I  thought  everyone  did  things  the 
way  Americans  do.  But  when  I  got  to  London,  1  found  that 
not  to  be  true.  That  eye-opening  experience  is  valuable. 

Eileen  Kelleher:  I  have  a  question  concerning  being  a  fe- 
male and  traveling,  finding  bed-and-breakfasts,  and  so  on. 

Kiki  Hodgson:  A  young  American  woman,  who  was  my 
next-door  neighbor  at  City  University  for  a  semester,  trav- 
eled alone  for  a  month  in  the  U.K.  I  don't  think  I'd  do  that 
myself.  But  traveling  with  one  or  two  people  is  a  good  alter- 
native. 

John  Mansour:  One  thing  I  learned  was  that,  unlike  trav- 
eling, for  example,  to  Canada,  when  you  move  between  Eu- 
ropean countries,  within  a  few  miles  you're  in  another  world 
almost,  a  different  culture,  needing  a  different  language.  To 
people  here,  the  United  States  is  the  world.  I  think  once 


10        WPI   JOURNAL 


"Count  on  this: 
things  will  be 
different  abroad.  Not 
better  or  worse. 
Simply  different." 


Keith  Pugh 


Eileen  Kelleher 


Professor  Sam  Woolford 


you're  over  there  you're  going  to  see  that  there  is  a  whole 
other  part  of  the  world.  I  think  that's  probably  the  best  part 
of  the  program.  You  become  very  aware  that  there  are  other 
countries,  other  views,  other  peoples. 

Keith  Agar:  Just  being  in  different  countries  gives  you  a 
lot  more  confidence  in  yourself  and  your  abilities  to  deal 
with  new  and  unfamiliar  situations.  When  you're  traveling  in 
France,  for  example,  you  may  not  know  much  French,  but 
you  manage  to  find  someplace  to  eat,  to  deal  with  unfamiliar" 
currency,  to  get  a  hotel  room  for  the  night. 

Matt  Turner:  Probably  the  most  rewarding  things  for  me 


were  non-academic  related.  I  definitely  encourage  people 
going  on  the  Exchange  to  get  involved  in  the  English  lifestyle 
and  go  to  sporting  events  and  the  theater  and  don't  just 
worry  about  academics  because  there's  a  lot  more  to  it  than 
that. 

John  Mansour:  There  were  good  and  bad  experiences,  but 
all  in  all,  it  was  well  worth  it.  One  of  the  first  things  you  do 
is  find  a  map  of  London  and  mark  off  where  the  McDonald's 
restaurants  are. 

Keith  Agar:  Just  one  last  piece  of  advice:  Don't  let  your 
classwork  interfere  with  your  education. 


At  Home  and  Abroad 


In  the  United  Kingdom,  an  engineer  can  be  anyone  from  a 
bus  driver  to  an  appliance  repairperson  to  a  college-edu- 
cated professional.  According  to  WPI  seniors  Malcolm  Berke 
(MGC)  of  Livingston,  NJ,  and  Robert  Catino  (CS)  of  Rocky 
Hill,  CT,  this  situation  is  a  fascinating  and  somewhat  trou- 
bling commentary  on  engineering  education  in  Britain  and 
the  status  of  her  professional  engineers.  But,  they  say,  Brit- 
ain's centuries-old  educational  methods  seem  to  enjoy  sev- 
eral advantages  over  the  U.S.  system. 

Roommates  at  WPL  Berke  and  Catino  spent  part  of  their 
junior  year  based  at  London's  City  University,  systematically 
comparing  undergraduate  engineering  education  in  the  U.K. 
and  the  U.S.  Now  in  its  final  stages,  their  IQP  gets  to  the 
heart  of  some  controversial  issues  and  spells  out  how  faculty, 
students  and  administrators  in  both  countries  rate  their  own 
institutions. 

In  January  1980,  a  British  report  called  Engineering  Our 
Future,  also  known  as  the  Finniston  Report,  concluded  that 
the  quality  of  the  British  engineering  system  is  a  key  factor 
in  that  country's  current  industrial  woes.  According  to  the 
report,  British  professional  engineers  are  used  ineffectively, 
their  status,  compared  to  that  of  their  U.S.  counterparts,  is 
depressed,  and,  because  British  engineers  are  unprotected  by 
licensing  or  registration  practices,  there  are  no  universal 
British  employment  policies  or  salary,  training,  or  academic 
requirements. 

The  picture  painted  by  the  Finniston  Report  of  British  en- 
gineering is  far  from  rosy.  But  is  it  a  valid  portrayal?  And 
how  does  the  U.S.  stack  up? 

These  are  the  questions  Berke  and  Catino  set  out  to  an- 
swer. Through  questionnaires  and  interviews  with  students, 
faculty  and  administrators  of  selected  British  and  U.S.  tech- 
nological colleges,  they  sought  to  separate  myth  and  fact. 


Bob  Cantino  and  Malcome  Berke  compared  U.S.  and  British 
engineering  education. 

"By  and  large,"  reports  Catino,  "our  study  reflects  the 
findings  of  the  Finniston  Report."  To  illustrate  the  dilemma 
facing  the  engineering  profession  across  the  U.K.,  he  recalls 
the  reply  of  a  British  laundromat  owner,  when  Catino  in- 
formed the  man  of  a  jammed  clothes  washer.  "The  engi- 
neer," said  the  man,  "will  be  up  presently  to  fix  it." 

Fortunately,  says  Berke,  the  British  government  has  com- 
missioned a  body  committed  to  reversing  this  image.  The 
mission  of  the  Engineering  Council  is  to  develop  guidelines 
for  ensuring  consistent  programs  in  engineering  education, 
clarifying  in  the  public's  eye  the  level  of  professional  engi- 
neers' expertise,  and  encouraging  the  testimony  of  engineers 
in  litigation  calling  for  the  opinions  of  experts. 

But,  he  adds,  while  the  British  system  may  have  its  share 
of  problems,  its  engineering  cooperative  program  appears  to 
be  much  stronger  in  practice  than  that  of  the  U.S.,  due  in 
large  part  to  nearly  full  tuition  subsidies  by  the  British  gov- 
ernment. Plus,  traditional  U.S.  higher  education  emphasizes 
periodic  examinations,  while  the  U.K.  employs  one-  or  two- 
year  comprehensive  exams.  "At  WPL"  says  Berke,  "the 
Plan's  two  qualifying  projects  and  the  competency  exam 
combine  the  best  of  both  worlds." 


FEBRUARY  1983 


11 


PROJECTS 


Foreign  Countries 
And  the  EMP  Threat 

Interactive  Qualitying  Project  (IQP) 
Frederick  Gummow,  '84,  EE 
Patricia  Martone,  '84,  EE 
Patricia  Porcaro,  '84,  CE 
Dean  William  Grogan,  '46,  and 
Prof.  Joseph  Soetens,  Management, 
Advisors 

If  a  thermonuclear  device  is  exploded  at 
a  high  altitude,  a  powerful  electromag- 
netic pulse  (EMP).  or  "burst,"'  is  propa- 
gated. People  would  not  die  from  the  ex- 
plosion, nor  buildings  be  destroyed.  But, 
according  to  an  IQP  compiled  by  WPI 
juniors  Frederick  Gummow  of  West 
Bridgewater,  MA,  Patricia  Martone  of 
Mechanicville,  NY,  and  Patricia  Porcaro 
of  Boylston,  MA,  the  electronic  destruc- 
tion caused  by  an  EMP  could  instantly 
produce  chaos  throughout  any  nation. 

"Virtually  all  exposed  communications 
and  computer  systems  could  be  wiped  out 
by  an  EMP,"  Gummow  reports.  "With- 
out protection  there  would  be  few  func- 
tioning telephones,  radios,  power  systems 
or  computers." 

Dean  William  Grogan,  project  advisor, 
adds,  "Unlike  the  old  vacuum  tube  cir- 
cuits, the  high-density  electronic  'chips' 
on  which  our  electronic  American  society 
now  depends  could  be  seriously  af- 
fected." 

Although  lagging  behind  the  U.S.  in 
the  application  of  the  vulnerable  micro- 
chip components,  foreign  countries  seem 
very  concerned  about  EMPs.  In  this  proj- 
ect, sponsored  by  the  National  Research 
Council  at  WPI's  Washington.  DC,  Proj- 
ect Center,  students  examined  unclassi- 
fied literature  on  EMPs  developed  by  nine 
foreign  countries.  Not  only  did  they  read 
and  abstract  75  documents,  they  also  per- 
sonally contacted  32  international  experts 
in  the  field.  They  studied  and  analyzed 
EMP  information  published  in  Canada, 
Europe,  and  the  U.S.S.R. 

The  group  concluded  that  public  aware- 


ness of  EMP  risks  is  highest  in  Switzer- 
land, Norway  and  Sweden  and  that  these 
countries  and  West  Germany  have  taken 
significant  steps  to  protect  their  electron- 
ics and  to  educate  personnel  for  emer- 
gency situations.  According  to  the  IQP 
final  report,  unclassified  literature  indi- 
cates that  several  countries  are  worried 
that  the  U.S.  is  not  yet  capable  of  with- 
standing an  EMP  situation.  From  Switz- 
erland comes  the  article.  "The  Bomb  That 
Could  Leave  America  Power  Less;"  from 
Britain,  "[U.S.]  Communications  Clob- 
bered;" and  from  Norway  the  warning, 
"If  the  Soviet  Union  exploded  a  nuclear 
bomb  above  the  atmosphere  in  North 
America  and  West  Europe,  all  the  NATO 
countries  would  be  helpless." 

The  importance  of  the  WPI  research  is 
confirmed  by  a  recent  statement  by  Ed- 
ward Teller  of  the  Hoover  Institution 
(IEEE  Spectrum,  October  1982,  pg.  65): 
"Without  widespread  dissemination  of 
[declassified]  information  to  industry,  .  .  . 
the  civilian  economy  faces  the  prospect  of 
grinding  to  a  halt  in  a  nuclear  encounter." 


Safer  Knots  for 
Surgical  Sutures 

Major  Qualifying  Prt)jcct  (MQP) 
Donald  R.  Soubie,  '82,  ME 
Michael  R.  Williams,  '83.  ME 
Prof.  Allen  H.  Hoffman,  ME,  Advi.sor 

A  postoperative  patient  may  occasionally 
complain,  "I  think  I've  slipped  a  stitch." 
But  because  of  the  extensive  testing  given 
surgical  knots  by  Donald  Soubie,  of  Fitch- 
burg,  MA.  and  Michael  Williams,  of  East 
Templeton,  MA,  in  their  recently  com- 
pleted MQP,  such  patient  complaints  may 
become  even  more  of  a  rarity  in  the  fu- 
ture. 

The  project,  which  was  carried  out  with 
the  cooperation  of  Dr.  John  Herrmann  of 
the  Department  of  Surgery  at  Worcester's 
University  of  Massachusetts  Medical 
Center,  investigated  the  mechanics  of  knot 


security  in  surgical  sutures.  Knot  slippage 
was  examined  using  large-diameter  rope 
as  a  model.  Visual  observations  and  force 
measurements  were  also  made,  according 
to  methods  formulated  by  the  American 
Society  for  Testing  and  Materials. 

Because  the  knot  used  by  the  surgeon 
plays  such  an  important  role  in  keeping 
the  surgical  suture  from  slipping,  the  three 
most  common  knots  (square,  surgeon's 
and  granny)  were  tested  thoroughly.  After 
being  tied  and  placed  in  a  tensile  test  ma- 
chine, the  knots  were  pulled  until  they 
slipped  or  tightened.  Through  the  use  of 
a  videotape  recorder,  Soubie  and  Wil- 
liams discovered  that,  as  the  knots  were 
being  pulled,  they  turned,  became  smaller 
and  changed  from  their  original  shape.  In 
the  final  analysis,  the  square  knot  was 
found  to  be  most  secure,  with  the  sur- 
geon's knot  second.  The  granny  knot  was 
least  secure. 

They  also  found  that  the  square  knot 
attempted  to  align  itself  to  become  a  two- 
force  member.  The  surgeon's  knot  com- 
pletely changed  its  shape  and  became 
smaller,  but  not  as  small  as  the  square 
knot.  On  the  other  hand,  the  granny  knot 
changed  shape  only  slightly,  by  twisting 
and  rotating,  and  did  not  become  smaller. 
More  than  the  square  knot  and  the  sur- 
geon's knot,  the  granny  knot  tended  to 
retain  its  original  shape  and  size  during 
the  pulling. 

In  a  rigorous  knot  slippage  test,  the 
granny  knot  failed  100  percent  of  the  time. 
The  surgeon's  knot  failed  80  percent  of 
the  time,  with  the  square  knot  having  a  0 
percent  failure  rate. 

It  was  also  discovered  that  a  knot  formed 
from  a  multifilament  suture  material  is 
more  secure  than  the  same  knot  formed 
in  a  monofilament  material — the  former 
tends  to  have  a  higher  coefficient  of  fric- 
tion and  a  lower  flexural  rigidity. 

The  findings  of  Soubie  and  Williams 
indicate  that  square  knots  in  multifila- 
ment materials  could  be  just  what  the  doc- 
tor orders  for  your  next  operation.  You 
might  mention  this  to  your  surgeon  just 
before  you  go  under. 


12        WPI   JOURNAL 


Somewhere    between    a    gleaming 
Tomorrowland  and  a  red-hot  cinder 
lies  the  likely  future  of  the  globe.  Join 
us  to  ponder  it — spot  a  few  problems, 
eye  a  few  technologies,  and  eavesdrop 
on  a  convention  full  of  futurists. 


^Culture  & 
Clairvoyance 

Is  it  possible  to  know  the  future? 
Or  is  the  ''future"  a  window  on  the  past  and  present? 

By  Mark  Mosko 


I  hat  will  happen  tomorrow?  Next  year?  Next  cen- 

Wtury?  Will  there  be  peace?  Is  there  an  afterlife?  To 
most  people,  such  are  the  interesting  questions  about 
the  future,  questions  concerned  with  prediction. 

Anthropologists,  however,  tend  to  shy  away  from  speculating 
about  the  future,  because  the  study  of  many  cultures  reveals 
subtle  complexities.  What  is  meant  by  "future"?  The  future  ac- 
cording to  whom?  You  or  me?  This  culture  or  another  culture? 

Anthropologically  speaking,  the  interesting  aspect  of  any  pre- 
diction is  not  what  it  says  about  the  future— which  may  or  may 
not  turn  out  to  be  accurate — but  rather  what  it  reveals  of  general 
assumptions  about  time  and  reality  current  in  the  culture  of  the 
present.  Culturally  shared  notions  about  time  and  reality  vary 
considerably  within  and  between  cultures,  and  the  kinds  of  fu- 
tures that  each  foretells  will  vary  accordingly. 

For  instance,  most  of  us  have  probably  observed  that  the  spe- 
cific visions  a  person  has  of  heaven  or  paradise  reflect  aspects 
of  his  life  which  he  regards  as  vital  in  the  here  and  now.  The 
tired  may  think  paradise  will  be  eternal  rest,  while  the  Angeleno 
will  think  it  is  Southern  California.  (So  may  the  Minnesotan.) 
Within  a  culture,  similarly,  specific  ideas  of  the  future  express 

Mark  Mosko  is  an  anthropologist  at  Hartwick  College. 


that  culture's  most  basic  beliefs  and  values.  From  this  perspec- 
tive, "the  future"  can  serve  as  a  code  to  the  present. 

In  our  Western  culture,  we  tend  to  think  of  the  future  as  an 
extension  of  the  directional,  linear,  non-repetitive  unfolding  of 
time.  There  was  the  past,  we  live  now  in  the  present,  and  when 
the  future  does  come  it  will  consist  largely  of  novel  occurrences — 
new  inventions,  new  societies,  new  institutions.  Time  in  general 
moves  on  for  us,  never  repeating  itself,  so  that  we  see  the  future 
as  marked  by  never-ending  change.  Hence  the  difficulties  we 
perceive  in  offering  reliable  predictions  about  the  future.  In  this 
view  of  time,  no  one  can  ever  be  certain  which  changes  will 
indeed  eventuate. 

But  in  other  areas  of  our  culture  and  in  some  non-Western 
cultures,  time  is  very  differently  conceived,  such  that  the  future 
is  much  less  problematic.  In  Hindu  culture,  to  take  a  well-known 
example,  the  entire  universe  undergoes  never-ending  cycles  of 
creation  and  destruction.  Each  cycle  of  Hindu  cosmic  time  lasts 
billions  of  years.  Time  is  here  cyclical  rather  than  linear,  repet- 
itive rather  than  non-repetitive.  At  a  smaller  scale,  in  Hindu 
culture,  living  creatures  (including  humans)  are  bound  to  cycles 
of  life/death/rebirth  reincarnation.  The  lifetime  is  a  circle,  and 
the  next  lifetime  will  partially  repeat  the  former  one.  So  while 
there  is  change  within  any  one  cycle — cosmic  or  human — each 


FEBRUARY  1983 


Ihc  Hcttmann  Archive.  Inc. 


II    ALUMNI  MAGAZlNb  CONSORTIUM 


cycle  repeats  elements  of  other  cycles.  Essentially,  the  Hindu 
future  holds  a  unending  repetition  of  the  past. 

This  cyclical  perspective  is  quite  common  among  cultures  of 
the  world.  Indeed,  even  in  Western  cultures  we  tend  to  break 
time  up  into  days,  weeks,  months,  seasons,  years,  generations, 
etcetera,  which  reveals  a  pervasive  use  of  repetitive  cyclical  time. 
Consider  especially  our  notion  of  "life  cycles."  Certainly  the 
beginning  of  a  life  is  distinct  from  its  end.  yet  we  along  with 
peoples  of  many  other  cultures  tend  to  equate  birth  and  death. 
Through  the  progression  of  seasons,  the  natural  world  emerges 
rejuvenated.  In  a  parallel  way,  the  human  spirit  also  does  not 
die.  It  too,  as  our  culture  sees  it,  is  reborn  upon  bodily  death. 
I  suggest  that  by  thinking  in  terms  of  these  cycles,  we  gain  a 
measure  of  confidence,  order,  and  intelligibility,  because  the 
cycles  let  us  foresee  a  fate  consistent  with  the  perceived  structure 
of  the  whole  universe. 

Still  other  patterns  for  describing  time  are  found  among  the 
world's  cultures.  Quite  com.monly  time  is  broken  up  into  con- 
trasting and  alternating  phases.  There  is  night,  for  example,  then 
there  is  day,  then  night,  then  day,  and  so  on.  Summer/winter, 
wet  season/dry  season,  peacetime/wartime,  and  sacred  time/pro- 
fane time  are  additional  anthropological  instances  of  making 
sense  of  time  through  alternations. 

As  with  cyclical  time  but  distinct  from  linear  time,  alternating 
time  is  repetitive,  so  that  future  events  can  be  reliably  predicted 
by  past  events.  If  it  was  night,  and  now  is  day,  then  night  will 
certainly  follow. 

Moreover,  note  that  in  certain  situations  we  Americans  use 
this  alternating  temporal  order  side  by  side  with  cyclical  and 
linear  views  of  time.  Usually,  as  we  switch  from  one  mode  to 
the  other,  we  do  not  notice  even  the  mildest  discomfort.  Con- 
sistent with  our  various  views  about  "work,"  for  instance,  we 
might  first  remark  upon  the  monotony  of  our  "day-in,  day-out" 
routine  (alternating  time);  then  we  might  anxiously  anticipate 
starting  all  over  on  some  new  job  (cyclical  time);  but  nonetheless 
grieve  for  opportunities  that  are  slipping  past,  never  to  come 
again  (linear  time) — all  with  the  greatest  of  ease. 

Ordinarily,  it  is  only  when  we  argue  about  the  course  of  future 
events  that  the  contradictory  implications  of  these  various  views 
of  time  become  evident.  Compare  the  familiar  image  of  the 
political  conservative  who  fights  for  return  to  conditions  of  the 
past,  on  the  one  hand,  with  the  liberal  who  pushes  relentlessly 
for  entirely  novel  formulations  of  public  policy.  Both  have  the 
future  in  view,  and  both  accept  the  inevitability  of  change,  but 
the  conservative  struggles  to  reclaim  a  prior  moment  in  time  and 
work  from  there,  while  the  liberal  abandons  the  past.  The  clash 
of  their  divergent  assumptions  about  the  nature  of  time  and 
consequently  of  the  future  makes  their  political  contest  una- 
voidable. 

In  spite  of  their  various  implications  for  perceiving  the  future, 
linear,  cyclical,  and  alternating  temporal  modes  share  one  ele- 
ment in  common.  They  all  assume  change — whether  it  be  re- 
petitive or  non-repetitive — to  be  an  essential  aspect  of  reality. 
But  what  if  there  were  a  culture  that  conceived  time  in  a  radically 
different  way,  one  that  denied  the  very  possibility  of  change? 
Specfically,  what  kind  of  future  would  be  conceivable  when  things 
do  not  and  cannot  change?  Well,  the  Dreamtime  beliefs  of  Aus- 
tralian Aborigines  provide  just  such  astonishing  possibilities. 

The  Dreamtime  in  traditional  Aboriginal  culture  unified  three 
major  kinds  of  experience:  myths  and  stories  of  creation,  annual 
religious  rituals  and  activities,  and  people's  dreams.  Basically, 
through  their  dreams  and  rituals  Aboriginal  peoples  play  out  the 
events  and  interactions  of  their  own  ancestors,  ancestors  of  whom 


they  are  the  living  reincarnations.  However,  the  Aborigines  take 
this  association  to  a  remarkable  extreme.  From  a  Westerner's 
point  of  view,  it  would  appear  that  they  constantly  rewrite  the 
past  to  match  the  present.  They  argue,  though,  that  they  have 
the  same  names,  same  personalities,  same  possessions,  and  same 
relationships  as  their  ancestors.  Indeed,  in  some  essential  way, 
living  Aborigines  are  their  own  ancestors.  Therefore,  whatever 
people  do  and  observe  "now"  in  their  Dreamtime  activities  is 
what  they  have  always  been  doing  and  always  will  be  doing.  In 
their  cultural  beliefs  about  the  Dreamtime,  past,  present,  and 
future  are  completely  collapsed  into  what  has  been  called 
"everywhen." 

It  might  come  as  a  surprise  for  some  to  discover  these  same 
four  modes — linear  time,  cyclical,  alternating,  and  non-changing 
time — expressed  in  the  theories  of  modern  Western  science.  With 
the  notion  of  entropy,  according  to  the  Second  Law  of  Ther- 
modynamics, time  is  linear  and  non-repetitive  for  all  matter  and 
energy  in  the  Universe.  Similarly,  biological  evolution  proceeds 
through  time  linearly,  without  repetition  or  reversal.  The  mo- 
tions of  the  planets  as  described  by  Kepler  and  Newton  exemplify 
repetitive,  cyclical  time.  And  in  astrophysics,  some  versions  of 
the  Big  Bang  theory  involve  alternating  phases  of  expansion  and 
contraction  of  the  universe.  Finally,  the  concept  of  equilibrium 
in  chemistry,  as  well  as  Steady  State  theories  that  vie  with  the 
Big  Bang  theory,  each  presume  (at  one  level)  a  notion  of  con- 
stant, non-changing  time  and  homeostasis — very  similar  to  Ab- 
original Dreamtime. 

Need  I  mention  that  each  of  these  kinds  of  scientific  theory 
projects  a  different  kind  of  future,  just  as  any  cultural  system 
does?  And  here  we  may  detect  another  explanation  for  why 
accurate  predictions  remain  so  difficult. 

In  addition,  quite  apart  from  concepts  of  time,  predictions  of 
the  future  reflect  the  facts  of  the  present  as  we  see  it.  To  be 
deemed  relevant,  or  even  to  be  understood,  any  description  of 
the  future  must  to  some  extent  be  grounded  in  the  present.  The 
more  the  predicted  future  derives  from  the  familiar  today,  the 
more  it  will  be  believed. 

We  can  see  this  clearly,  I  think,  in  the  genre  of  science  fiction, 
which  usually  explicitly  deals  with  the  future.  Why,  otherwise, 
should  so  many  societies  depicted  in  science  fiction  take  on  the 
form  of  past  or  present  societies,  or  combinations  of  both?  Why 
is  any  truly  novel  form  so  novel  in  science  fiction?  The  remaining 
traces  of  feudal  aristocracy  have  been  dwindling  throughout  this 
century,  but  intergalactic  "empires"  of  the  year  20,000  A.D.  or 
whenever  are  often  constituted  of  feuding  dukes,  barons,  prin- 
cesses and  kings.  Why?  What  is  the  hidden  sense  of  projecting 
neolithic  tribal  and  chiefly  forms  of  society  into  the  21st  cen- 
tury?— albeit  adorned  with  ray  guns,  thought  control,  and  travel 
at  the  speed  of  light?  Even  the  images  of  the  totalitarian  state 
commonly  transported  into  the  future  undeniably  reflect  the  facts 
of  our  present  experiences  as  much  as  anything  else.  As  many 
devotees  insist,  what  is  best  in  science  fiction  is  not  fictional. 

Indeed,  the  future  changes  as  a  direct  function  of  changes  here 
in  the  present.  It  is  re-conceived  constantly,  as  an  ongoing 
amendment  to  traditions  stretching  deep  into  the  past.  As  things 
change  now,  our  view  of  things  in  the  future  tends  to  change 
accordingly.  Specific  predictions  about  the  future,  therefore,  may 
or  may  not  "work";  they  may  or  may  not  have  "real"  foretelling 
value.  But  each  prediction  has  value  in  telling  us  much  about 
our  ideas  of  ourselves  and  our  place  in  the  universe,  much  about 
the  values  and  culture  of  our  present.  By  placing  the  future  in 
its  wider  cultural  context,  perhaps  we  can  better  decipher  the 
things  which  vitally  concern  us  now. 


FEBRUARY  1983     III 


When  the  World  Future  Society 

assembled  to  find  today's  solutions  to 

tomorrow's  problems,  we  climbed 

aboard  Spaceship  Earth  .  .  . 

Future  Bound 


By  Gina  Maranto 


I  hen  I  arrived  at  the  Sheraton  Washington  Hotel  for 

Wthe  opening  ceremonies  at  the  Fourth  General  As- 
sembly of  the  World  Future  Society,  the  central  air 
was  in  overdrive.  It  was  a  hot.  humid  Sunday  after- 
noon, typical  of  D.C.  weather  in  July.  In  a  cordoned-off  area  in 
front  of  the  registration  desk,  waited  several  dozen  luggage- 
strapped  people.  "Futurists,"  I  noted,  were  capable  of  being 
late. 

Several  thousand  on-time  futurists,  meanwhile,  were  weaving 
through  labyrinthine  chrome  and  mirror  corridors,  dressed  in  a 
bewildering  array  of  styles.  There  were  people  wearing  polyester 
three-piece  suits,  people  wearmg  bleached  Levis.  Summer  wool 
pinstripes,  Indian-print  cotton  dresses,  digital  watches,  long  hair 
and  beards,  Birkenstock  sandals,  high-heeled  open-toed  shoes, 
khaki  shorts,  close-cropped  hair  and  clean-shaven  faces.  Was 
this  Berkeley,  the  boardroom,  or  the  boardwalk? 

On  my  way  upstairs  to  the  press  room.  I  crossed  paths  with  a 
pigtailed  little  girl  wearing  espadrilles.  She  was  yelling  up  to  a 
compadre  leaning  over  the  mezzanine  rail  above.  "You  have  to 
get  your  briefing  packet  from  the  press  room,"  the  girl  shouted, 
very  harried.  'Then  you'll  know  everything  you  need  to  know." 
Her  compadre  contorted  himself  against  the  rail.  "But  where," 
he  plaintively  asked,  "is  the  press  room?" 


In  his  own  way,  that  perplexed  eight-year-old  had  asked  one 
of  the  main  questions  that  the  Assembly  was  supposed  to  answer: 
Given  that  there  is  information  in  the  world,  how  does  one  get 
access  to  it?  More  important,  with  the  proliferation  of  so-called 
communications  technologies — cable  television,  video,  com- 
puters, fiber  optics,  direct  transmission  satellites,  and  a  horde  of 
permutations  and  combinations  thereof — who  will  have  access 
to  what  information?  And  what  will  they  do  with  both  access 
and  information? 

I  too,  of  course,  had  to  find  the  press  room.  And  then  I  had 
to  wade  through  a  flood  of  information,  to  learn  that  the  theme 
would  be  communication,  with  6()()-plus  speakers  and  3,2()()-odd 
participants.  Over  five  days,  there  were  to  be  several  dozen 
symposia  and  seminars,  nightly  "Paper  Fairs"  (where  authors 
would  discuss  and  defend  their  notions),  and  290  90-minute  ses- 
sions in  which  artists,  computer  specialists,  corporate  long-range 
planners,  economists,  educators,  full-time  futurist  networkers, 
military  advisors,  professors — and  others — would  attempt  to  scope 
out  the  role  that  communications  would  play  in  times  to  come. 
In  the  process,  they  would  attempt  to  forecast  the  fate  not  only 
of  societies,  but  also  of  humanity  and  life  itself. 

I  made  my  way  to  the  opening  ceremonies  through  a  maze  ol 
branching  corridors,  atria,  and  areas  with  too  many  exits  to  the 


IV    ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


Sheraton  Ballroom.  It  was  gargantuan,  badly  lit,  and  two-thirds 
full.  About  halfway  up  the  aisle,  a  row  of  yellow-shirted  children, 
including  the  espadrilled  girl  and  compadre,  fidgeted  and  chat- 
tered. They  were  reporters  for  the  Children's  Express  newspaper, 
and  two  teenage  staff  members  were  having  a  hard  time  mar- 
shalling the  restless  ones.  A  petite  blonde  in  braids  flipped  the 
conference  volume  open  and  reiad  aloud,  "  'The  future  of  the 
arts  is  one  that  will  be  modified  and  undoubtedly  impaired  by 
the  technological  society  in  which  we  live."  "  Slapping  the  volume 
shut,  she  repeated  with  worldly  exhaustion,  "  'Undoubtedly  im- 
paired,' oh,  I  can  tell  Fm  not  going  to  like  this."  I  wasn't  at  all 
sure  whether  she  meant  the  next  50  years  or  the  next  few  days. 

WFS  president  Edward  Cornish  took  the  podium.  Cornish,  a 
powdery-looking  man,  has  written  that  the  Society's  purpose  is 
to  further  the  "creation  of  a  world  future  network  that  can  pro- 
vide a  basis  for  the  global  wisdom  we  desperately  need  to  manage 
our  planet  during  this  period  of  convulsive  change."  In  his  open- 
ing speech,  Cornish  reiterated  that  message,  and  said  it  was  the 
task  of  futurists  (the  society  boasts  close  to  40,000  members  in 
80  countries)  to  find  solutions  to  the  world's  problems,  and  to 
use  new  technologies  to  help  people  understand  their  options. 
He  admonished  the  audience,  "Your  task  is  urgent  and  important 
because  the  real  changes  that  will  lead  us  to  a  sustainable  plan- 
etary future  won't  happen  openly,  but  in  the  hearts  and  minds 
of  people.  You  should  take  your  task  seriously,  but  enter  into 
it  with  a  festive  spirit." 

Several  items  in  that  brief  speech  were  to  re-echo  throughout 
the  conference.  First,  Cornish  used  the  global  "we,"  always 
speaking  in  terms  of  "our  planet,"  "our  options,"  and  "what  we 
must  do  to  solve  our  problems."  This  usage  reflected  the  view 
(not  a  new  one)  that  we're  all  in  this  thing  together  and  that  the 
life  of,  say,  a  lesser  bureaucrat  in  India  has  a  bearing  on  the  life 
of  an  auto  mechanic  in  Montana,  and  vice  versa. 

Then,  the  term  "sustainable  future."  "Future,"  as  the  word 
was  used  at  this  conference,  did  not  always  mean  tomorrow  and 
the  day  after,  but  referred  to  a  pervasive  system  of  organization. 
(Capitalism,  or  nation  states,  or  Roman  Catholicism,  to  name  a 
few,  are  such  systems  of  organization.)  A  "sustainable  future," 
then,  meant  a  system  able  to  last  for  a  long  time,  without  de- 
stroying itself  or  life  in  general.  (Of  course,  precisely  what  such 
a  system  would  entail  depended  upon  the  perspective  of  the 
speaker  imagining  it,  and  perspectives  varied.) 

Finally,  in  Cornish's  speech,  there  was  the  notion  that  people 
working  together,  "thinking  globally,  acting  locally,"  to  use  a 
phrase  coined  by  the  late  Rene  Dubos,  can  change  the  world  for 
the  better.  There  are  several  assumptions  here.  One,  that  those 
with  power,  whether  governments  or  individuals,  must  eventu- 
ally give  in  to  the  will  of  the  people.  And,  two,  that  access  to 
information  gives  people  power.  And,  that  an  individual's  free 
determination  of  his  acts  is  the  most  desirable  condition  of  human 
life. 

At  this  point,  however,  many  futurists  diverged.  Some  wanted 
individual  freedom  worldwide,  and  believed  that  easy  access  to 
communications  technologies — computers,  satellites,  tele- 
phones— would  bring  about  worldwide  democratization.  In  this 
way,  current  economic  and  political  systems  would  become  ob- 
solete, giving  way  to  holistic,  organic  arrangements.  Others,  though 
desiring  much  the  same  end — democratization — did  not  either 
anticipate  or  want  current  systems  to  wither.  Governments,  they 
said,  are  necessary  and  have  simply  to  adapt. 

"Man,"  the  soft-spoken  George  Gerbner  began  his  keynote 
speech,  "is  an  animal  who  lives  in,  of,  and  by  his  fantasies.  He 
is  a  storytelling  animal."  Gerbner,  dean  of  the  Annenberg  School 


Is  1984 
Coming  True? 


ST'TSext  year  would  be  just  an- 
l^kj  other  year  if  it  weren't  for 
JL  ^  George  Orwell's  novel  1984, 
that  nightmarish  vision  published 
in  1949.  Are  Orwell's  predictions 
coming  true?  Here  is  a  checklist. 

Big   Brother.    The   ruler   of 

Oceania,  his  enormous  face  gazes 
out  from  posters  hung  everywhere. 
"BIG  BROTHER  IS  WATCH- 
ING YOU,"  the  posters  proclaim, 
and  Big  Brother  sees  everything. 
He  is  also  infallible,  and  is  kept 
that  way  by  the  Ministry  of  Truth 
(Minitrue),  at  which  Winston  Smith 
w.orks.  Each  day  Smith  is  given 
copies  of  obsolete  news  articles, 
books,  and  speeches  that  need  to 
be  rectified.  For  instance,  when  Big 
Brother  makes  a  speech  predicting 
a  Eurasian  offensive,  but  the  Eur- 
asian front  remains  quiet.  Smith  has 
to  "rewrite  a  paragraph  of  Big 
Brother's  speech  in  such  a  way  as 
to  make  him  predict  the  thing  that 
had  actually  happened."  All  cop- 
ies of  the  original  speech  are  then 
destroyed.  In  this  way  Big  Brother 
is  never  wrong. 

Doublethink,  which  enables 

most  citizens  to  accept  such  blatant 
contradictions.  A  form  of  "reality 
control,"  doublethink  allows  one 
"to  be  conscious  of  complete  truth- 
fulness while  telling  carefully  con- 
structed lies."  This  process  makes 
possible  the  three  Party  slogans: 
"War  is  peace.  Freedom  is  slavery. 
Ignorance  is  strength."  Unfortu- 
nately, Winston  Smith  finds  him- 
self unable  to  practice  double- 
think; he  is  thus  guilty  of 
thoughtcrime ,  an  offense  punisha- 
ble by  the  Thought  Police  in  what- 
ever fashion  they  choose. 

Newspeak,  a  language  in 

which  unnecessary  words  are  de- 
stroyed, thus  diminishing  the  range 
of  unnecessary  thought.  For  in- 
stance. Smith  gets  this  assignment: 
"times  3.12.83  reporting  bb  day- 
order  doubleplusungood  refs  un- 
persons rewrite  fullwise  upsub  an- 
tefiling."  Translated  into  less 
efficient  standard  English:  "The 
reporting  of  Big  Brother's  Order 
for  the  Day  in  the  Times  of  De- 
cember 3rd  1983  is  extremely  un- 
satisfactory and  makes  references 
to  nonexistent  persons.  Rewrite  it 
in  full  and  submit  your  draft  to 
higher  authority  before  filing." 

A  new.  efficient  way  of  deal- 
ing with  crime:  vaporization.  The 
Party  needn't  waste  time  putting 
criminals  on  trial;  the  Thought  Po- 
lice simply  arrest  offenders,   kill 


them,  and  have  their  names  struck 
from  any  records.  The  offender  be- 
comes an  unperson  and  the  offense 
ceases  to  exist. 

—  Development  of  new  crimes: 
thoughtcrime,  to  ensure  good- 
thinkful  citizens,  and  sexcrime,  to 
ensure  that  all  of  a  citizen's  vital 
energies  are  focused  towards  the 
good  of  the  Party,  instead  of  being 
squandered  in  selfish  pursuit  of 
pleasure.  And  to  make  sure  that 
neither  thoughtcrime  nor  sexcrime 
goes  unpunished,  there  is  face- 
crime.  Maybe  the  Thought  Police 
can't  always  catch  you  in  the  act  of 
criminal  thoughts  or  pleasures,  but 
they  can  always  fall  back  on  the 
old  standby:  they  don't  like  the  look 
on  your  face. 

Two-way  television,  the  bet- 
ter to  monitor  Party  members.  Each 
morning  Smith  is  awakened  by  his 
television,  which  turns  on  auto- 
matically and  orders  him  and  every 
other  citizen  to  take  part  in  "the 
Physical  Jerks,"  the  morning  cal- 
isthenics. When  Smith  does  not 
quite  touch  his  toes  in  one  exer- 
cise, the  television  screams  at  him: 
"  '6079  Smith  W!  Yes,  you\  Bend 
lower,  please!  You  can  do  better 
than  that.'  "  No  one  can  change 
the  channel  or  turn  the  TV  off. 

A  new  balance  of  world  power 

that  ensures  perpetual  peace 
through  continual  war.  The  three 
world  powers — Oceania,  Eurasia, 
and  Eastasia — keep  their  econo- 
mies humming  by  waging  war 
against  one  another.  It  hardly  mat- 
ters who  is  fighting  whom — Oceania 
has  allied  itself  in  the  past  with 
Eastasia  against  the  brazen  enemy 
Eurasia,  and  has  switched  its  alli- 
ance to  Eurasia  to  fight  Eastasia. 
The  point  is,  an  enemy  is  vital. 

New  sociological   advances, 

such  as  the  60-hour  work  week  and 
the  public  hangings  of  prisoners  of 
war;  as  well  as  breakthroughs  in 
the  arts,  such  as  the  novel  writing 
machine  and  the  "versificator"  (or 
songwriting  machine);  and  new 
forms  of  community  activity,  such 
as  Hate  Week.  (It  is  supplemented 
by  the  daily  Two  Minute  Hate.) 

If  you  don't  see  these  develop- 
ments by  next  year,  though,  you 
can't  relax  yet — this  might  be  a 
checklist  for  1985.  For  at  the  start 
of  the  novel,  when  Smith  writes  the 
date  in  his  diary,  "he  did  not  know 
with  any  certainty  that  this  was 
1984.  ...  It  was  never  possible 
nowadays  to  pin  down  any  date 
within  a  year  or  two."  — PR 


FEBRUARY  1983     V 


Population 
Trends 


"^"decade  ago.  the  Club  of 

/\  Rome  report  '"Limits  to 
X  ILGrowth"  had  questioned 
whether  the  planet  could  supply  the 
resources — food,  water,  energy, 
clean  air.  sheer  breathing  room — 
needed  to  support  continued  growth 
of  population  and  industry.  De- 
mographer John  Kantner  doesn't 
question  that  such  inherent  limits 
to  growth  exist.  He  just  doesnt 
think  world  population  will  ever 
reach  the  point  where  resources  are 
stretched  to  the  breaking  point. 

Kantner.  who  heads  the  popu- 
lation dynamics  department  of  the 
Johns  Hopkins  School  of  Hygiene 
and  Public  Health,  sees  birth  rates 
plummeting  around  the  world — in 
east  Asia  and  southeast  Asia,  in 
Costa  Rica,  Chile,  parts  of  the 
Caribbean.  The  situation  in  less 
developed  countries,  he  declares. 
"is  more  optimistic  than  we  could 
have  thought  ten  years  ago." 

Countries  along  Chinas  perim- 
eter were  first  to  record  a  drop.  In 
places  like  Korea  or  Taiwan,  says 
Kantner.  "theyre  not  squeamish 
about  telling  their  people  what  to 
do."  In  other  countries,  industrial 
and  urban  development  sent  hus- 
bands off  to  the  cities  for  work, 
leaving  their  wives  alone  back  in 
the  villages.  Family  planning  pro- 
grams have  also  helped. 

Not  that  population  won't,  for  a 
time,  continue  to  climb.  According 
to  World  Bank  and  L.N.  esti- 
mates, a  century  from  now  there 
will  be  about  10  billion  people  on 
the  globe.  "There  is  a  momentum 
to  population  growth,  "  Kantner 
says — ""sort  of  like  a  flywheel  that 
stores  energy.  ■  Youthful  popula- 
tions, a  legacy  of  once-high  birth 
rates,  produce  new  babies.  That, 
combined  with  a  precipitous  de- 
cline in  death  rates  since  World  War 
II,  means  it  may  still  be  several 
generations  before  world  popula- 
tion levels  off. 

When  it  docs,  there  will  be  far- 
reaching  side  effects.  Until  re- 
cently, demographers  spoke  of  a 
"population  pyramid  "  in  which  the 
young  are  markedly  overreprc- 
scnted:  for  instance.  Indonesia's  l.l.S 
million  people  in  1975  mcluded 
about  2.1  million  younger  than  .5. 
but  less  than  half  that  many  be- 
tween .10  and  ?5.  In  more  "ma- 
ture "  Japan,  on  the  other  hand,  a 
population  roughly  ihc  same  as  In- 
donesia's had  only  10  million  peo- 
ple in  its  under-5  category — about 


the  same  as  the  nine  million  in  its 
30-35  age  group.  As  development 
proceeds,  says  Kantner.  Japan's 
type  of  "slab-sided"  pattern  is  what 
the  world  is  coming  to. 

The  consequences  of  this  new- 
pattern?  One  can  be  seen  as  the 
U.S.  debates  what  to  do  with  the 
Social  Security  system,  now  that 
proportionately  fewer  young  peo- 
ple support  a  growing  elderly  pop- 
ulation. What  Kantner  calls  ""a  dif- 
ferent opportunity  structure"  in  the 
working  world  may  be  another, 
marked  by  more  second  careers.  He 
even  sees  high  U.S.  divorce  rates  as 
an  almost  inevitable  by-product  of 
these  demographic  trends:  a  low- 
birth  rate  yields  fewer  children  to 
""hold  the  family  together."  Living 
apart  becomes  more  affordable. 

And  as  populations  shift,  says 
Kantner.  the  world's  geopolitical 
landscape  is  changing.  Migration  is 
making  Germany  more  Turkish. 
Britain  more  Pakistani,  the  United 
States  more  Latin.  And  "hetero- 
geneity." he  comments,  ""means 
problems."  Meanwhile,  the  slow- 
ing of  growth  in  the  West,  coupled 
with  continued  growth  for  the  next 
few  generations  in  the  developing 
countries,  could  mean  "an  entirely 
new  world" — in  which  nations  like 
India.  Indonesia,  or  Brazil  will  be- 
come powers  to  be  reckoned  with. 
— RK 


of  Communications  at  the  University  of  Pennsylvania,  thinks  that 
art,  medicine,  statecraft,  law.  and  the  rest  are  fabricated  through 
three  sorts  of  stories  which  intertwine  to  shape  the  world:  stories 
about  how  things  work  (fiction),  about  how  things  are  and  were 
(news  and  legends),  and  about  values  and  choices  (sermons, 
instruction,  commercials). 

In  pre-Industrial  society,  Gerbner  said,  ritualistic  storytelling 
was  a  "centralized,  stylized,  institutionalized,  socializing  ele- 
ment." During  the  Industrial  era,  now  passing,  the  printing  press 
and  its  issue,  the  book,  weakened  the  ritual.  "A  book,  an  en- 
capsulation of  knowledge,"  explained  Gerbner,  "could  be  smug- 
gled across  hitherto  impenetrable  boundaries."  Now  able  to  com- 
municate over  long  distances  of  time  and  space,  storytellers  received 
information  about  other  societies.  Conscious  of  different  inter- 
ests, they  began  to  break  up  narratives  and  tell  tales  from  mul- 
tiple points  of  view. 

Today,  Gerbner  said,  in  the  post-Industrial  age,  the  cycle  has 
come  full-circle  and  stories  are  told  mainly  by  television.  Akin 
to  the  storytelling  of  the  pre-Industrial  age,  TV  is  "an  instrument 
of  mass  ritual."  Americans  watch,  on  the  average,  6'/;  hours  of 
TV  a  day.  They  have  few  programs  to  choose  from.  Conse- 
quently, this  "tribal  religion"  is  able  to  convey  an  extremely 
homogeneous  and  limited  set  of  stories  to  a  great  number  of 
people — stories  about  a  world  that  is  shown  as  male,  white, 
middle-aged,  and  crime-ridden. 

Cable  TV,  video,  direct  transmission  satellites,  and  computers 
offer  a  way  out  of  such  a  world,  Gerbner  feels,  because  they 
give  viewers  more  choice  and  more  chance  for  control.  Instead 
of  being  run  by  distant  corporations,  such  channels  might  be 
collectively  owned  and  locally  operated.  "The  question  to  ask 
about  these  new  communications  media,"  he  concluded,  "is  not 
'Will  they  make  our  offices  more  efficient?"  but  'Will  they  make 
our  humanity  more  efficient,  humane,  equitable,  and  peaceful?' 
We  should  ask  about  the  stories  we'll  be  able  to  tell  and  weave. 
Will  they  enrich  and  diversify,  or  limit  and  confirm  inequities? 
As  we  construct  our  future  communications  networks — which 
determine  how  we  are  able  to  tell  stories — we  define  ourselves." 

The  lights  came  down,  and  for  the  next  12  minutes — it  seemed 
longer — we  were  bombarded  by  a  multi-image  presentation  on 


Photograph  of  the  residents  of  the  world.  Missing:  Wong  ((  hina),  Lambert  (U.S.A.), 
Gonzales  (Mexico). 


VI    ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


communications  technology,  prepared  not  by  WFS  but  by  the 
National  Audiovisual  Society.  A  Star  Wars-type  soundtrack,  dec- 
ibels too  loud,  accompanied  fast-cut  stills  of  gleaming  equipment, 
smiling  workers,  absorbed  students,  vivid  charts.  A  voice-over 
narrative  offered  a  paean  to  technology.  In  the  future  techno- 
logical society,  the  narrator  boomed,  everyone  will  have  ac- 
cess to  information  via  computer,  satellite,  teleconferencing, 
picturephone®.  No  one  will  commute  to  work;  they  will  "tele- 
commute,"  hooked  up  to  offices  by  phone  and  computer.  Shop- 
ping will  be  done  right  at  home,  too.  Through  cable  television, 
video,  interactive  television,  entertainment  will  take  on  whole 
new  dimensions.  As  mankind  gains  "ever  greater"  ability  to 
acquire,  manipulate,  transport,  deliver,  and  duplicate  informa- 
tion, all  human  life  will  be  enriched.  People  will  begin  to  realize 
their  true  potentials!  A  triumphant  crescendo.  Magenta  and  char- 
treuse images  machine-gun  across  the  screen.  The  thing  was  over, 
as  were  the  opening  ceremonies. 

n  Day  Two,  near  the  entrance,  someone  was  handing 
out  flyers.  They  proved  to  be  a  warning:  "BEWARE 
THE  REVENGE  OF  PROMETHEUS."  Its  diatribe 
was  compellingly  senseless: 

If  you  believe  this  conference  is  anything  but  a  huge  psyche- 
delic brainwashing  session,  read  the  program  again.  .  .  .  The 
futures  movement  is  the  20th  century  update  of  the  Roman 
Empire's  bread  and  circuses  policy  for  social  control  in  a  period 
of  collapsing  living  standards  and  population.  ...  As  the  popu- 
lation was  decimated  by  waves  of  plagues,  famine,  and  the  in- 
fertility resulting  from  the  popularity  of  homosexuality,  the  in- 
famous Roman  sporting  events  were  expanded  until  they 
occupied  almost  as  much  time  as  do  rock'n  roll,  television, 
video  games,  and  parapsychology  fads  in  the  life  of  a  Futurist 
today. 

I  decided  to  take  my  chances  and  headed  for  Session  1101,  a 
seminar  on  "Images  of  the  Communications  and  Information 
Era:  An  Overview." 

Willis  Harman,  already  speaking  as  I  squeezed  into  the  au- 
ditorium, is  a  sanguine-complexioned  professor  of  engineering 
and  economic  systems  at  Stanford,  and  a  senior  social  scientist 
at  the  Strategic  Environment  Center  of  SRI  International  in 
Menlo  Park,  California.  As  I  found  a  space  on  the  floor,  Harman 
was  saying,  "The  future  of  the  globe  depends  on  our  reevaluating 
our  situation.  We're  moving  into  a  time  when  a  major  fraction 
of  our  workforce  is  going  to  be  engaged  in  the  processing  of 
information  and  the  creation  of  technology  to  handle  that  in- 
formation. But  I  think  we  need  to  ask  ourselves  what  all  that 
technology  and  information  is  for.  We've  been  very  good  up 
until  now  at  answering  the  'how-to'  questions — how  to  put  a  man 
on  the  moon,  how  to  split  the  atom — but  we  haven't  been  so 
good  at  the  'what  for'  questions.  It's  important  to  realize  that 
economics  and  technology  aren't  goals,  but  tools." 

Harman  was  taking  up  where  Gerbner  left  off,  with  talk  of 
assessing  values.  He  went  further  and  pinpointed  two  currently 
accepted  assumptions  which,  he  insists,  must  be  discarded  if  there 
is  ever  to  be  a  "global  society."  One,  the  assumption  that  people 
can  be  defined  by  their  role  in  the  mainstream  economy.  In  the 
past  30  years,  Harman  said,  people  have  stopped  thinking  of 
themselves  as  people.  Instead,  they  consider  themselves  "con- 
sumers" or  specialists.  Partly  as  a  result,  he  argued,  economic 
logic  has  been  the  prime  shaper  of  society — but  economic  im- 
perative isn't  a  suitable  basis  for  social  decisions.  Though  Har- 
man believes  people  should  rise  up  and  insist  that  economic  logic 
is  no  longer  legitimate,  he  also  hinted  that  the  current  system, 
"kept  going  in  large  part  by  armaments  production,"  will  even- 


An  Artificial 
Pancreas? 


5?magine  this:  You  are  one  of  the 
I  10  million  Americans  who  have 
JL  diabetes  mellitus,  the  disease  in 
which  the  pancreas  fails  to  produce 
enough  insulin  to  control  blood 
sugar  levels.  Yet  you  need  no  in- 
sulin shots,  nor  is  your  diet  re- 
stricted. Instead,  a  three-inch, 
pancake-shaped  device  has  been 
implanted  in  your  body.  It  contains 
a  microcomputer,  a  ten-year  bat- 
tery, and  a  vial  of  insulin;  your 
doctor  has  programmed  the  com- 
puter to  meter  out  your  insulin  over 
a  24-hour  cycle.  In  addition,  you 
can  tell  the  computer  to  prepare 
for,  say,  a  "light  snack."  (Ac- 
tually, you  punch  a  code  number 
on  a  control  box.)  And  the  implant 
gives  you  exactly  enough  insulin  to 
take  care  of  a  light  snack,  just  as 
your  body  should  do.  The  com- 
puter records  blood  sugar  fluctua- 
tions and  can  deliver  the  records 
to  your  doctor  over  the  telephone; 
if  necessary,  the  doctor  can  repro- 
gram  your  implant.  Your  insulin 
comes  in  a  highly  concentrated  form 
developed  especially  for  this  de- 
vice. You  go  in  to  the  doctor's  of- 
fice every  few  months  for  a  refill. 

This  device  is  called  a  Pro- 
grammable Implantable  Medica- 
tion System,  or  PIMS,  and  it  is  not 
a  daydream.  Used  to  deliver  in- 
sulin, it  is  already  working  well  in 
dogs.  A  variety  of  other  applica- 
tions are  being  developed  by  a  team 
of  engineers  and  scientists  at  the 
Johns  Hopkins  Applied  Physics 
Laboratory  and  physicians  at  the 
Johns  Hopkins  Medical  Institu- 
tions. (This  is  the  same  team  that 
developed  the  first  rechargeable 
cardiac  pacemaker  in  1973.) 

The  first  human  PIMS  implant 
will  likely  call  for  release  of  mor- 
phine into  the  spinal  fluid,  to  re- 
lieve intractable  pain  in  cancer  pa- 


tients. In  this  application,  as  with 
the  "artificial  pancreas,"  a  key  fea- 
ture is  that  PIMS  can  deliver  such 
a  finely  calibrated  dosage.  With  di- 
abetic patients,  for  example,  blood 
sugar  level  would  never  swing  far 
from  normal — thus  perhaps  elim- 
inating some  of  the  long-range  ef- 
fects of  diabetes  such  as  blindness 
and  cardiac  problems.  In  pain  pa- 
tients, the  pain  would  never  be  al- 
lowed to  grow  unbearable. 

Another  advantage  of  PIMS  is 
that  it  can  deliver  a  drug  straight 
to  the  affected  organ,  as  well  as  to 
the  blood  system  as  a  whole.  Thus 
it  may  eventually  prove  a  good  way 
to  deliver  cancer  chemotherapy  to 
a  particular  organ,  such  as  a  kid- 
ney. Cancer  drugs  are  engineered 
to  kill  cancer  cells,  but  they  injure 
all  cells,  causing  side  effects  like 
nausea  and  hair  loss.  If  they  could 
be  released  slowly,  steadily,  and  in 
minute  amounts  directly  into  the 
affected  organ,  the  effect  on  the 
cancer  should  be  maximized,  the 
side  effects  minimized. 

The  obvious  question:  Could  a 
microcomputer  be  programmed  and 
equipped  to  detect,  say,  a  rise  in 
blood  pressure  (or  drop  in  blood 
sugar)  and  respond  appropriately? 
Yes,  it  could,  and  such  a  device, 
the  SAMS — Sensor  Actuated 
Medication  System — is  now  in  the 
planning  stage.  Here,  you  don't  or- 
der the  device  to  respond  to  "light 
lunch";  it  knows  you  need  the  in- 
sulin and  delivers  it  accordingly. 
"The  likelihood  that  continuous 
automatic  control  of  blood  pres- 
sure can  be  achieved  is  high,"  says 
APL's  Robert  E.  Fischell,  inven- 
tor of  PIMS.  SAMS  might  also  be 
effective  for  hemophilia,  recurring 
blood  clots,  and  various  diseases  of 
the  nervous  system. 

— William  Buchanan 


FEBRUARY  1983     VII 


tually  collapse.  "In  order  to  have  a  world  economy  that  continues 
to  grow  as  it  has  over  the  last  20  years  or  so,  we  would  have  to 
create  one  billion  jobs  by  the  end  of  the  century.  Where  are 
those  jobs  going  to  come  from?" 

The  second  outworn  assumption:  War  is  an  acceptable  means 
for  solving  international  problems.  "'War  is  impractical  and  crazy. 
It's  obsolete."  said  Harman.  Like  The  Fate  of  the  Earth  author 
Jonathan  Schell.  he  sees  nuclear  war  as  the  end  to  civilization 
as  we  know  it.  "There's  no  way  we  can  feel  secure  as  long  as 
world  peace  is  based  on  the  balance  of  terror.  And  I  think,  as 
does  Schell.  that  there  can  be  no  solution  of  the  nuclear  dilemma 
with  the  present  economic  and  political  configuration.  There's 
no  solution  short  of  reinventing  the  world.  Non-proliferation 
measures  merely  buy  time.  They  may  not  buy  very  much  time." 

The  aside,  "if  we  don't  blow  ourselves  up  first."  was  made 
again  and  again  by  various  speakers.  Buckminster  Fuller  said  it. 
Russell  Peterson,  president  of  the  Audubon  Society,  said  it. 
Nearly  everyone  threw  it  in  as  a  subclause  somewhere — with  the 
notable  exception  of  Herman  Kahn.  head  of  the  Hudson  Institute 
and  proponent  of  the  winnable  war  theory. 


As  Harman  finished.  I  hurried  upstairs  to  Session  1 109.  "Com- 
munication for  a  Sustainable  Society."  There.  Russell  Peterson, 
who  is  also  chairman  of  the  Global  Tomorrow  Coalition,  echoed 
Harman's  theme,  the  inefficiency  of  economic  logic.  "The  GNP 
as  a  measure  of  productivity  is  blind.  Whether  a  country  is  pro- 
ducing carcinogens  or  rice  doesn't  make  any  difference  in  the 
GNP.  Where  it  does  make  a  difference,  though,  is  in  the  quaHty 
of  life. 

"What  determines  quality  of  life?  Well.  I  think  we  can  certainly 
say  that  the  opportunities  for  life  and  quality  are  reduced  by 
putting  toxic  chemicals  into  the  environment,  or  by  blowing  up 
the  world  some  afternoon."  The  bulge  of  laughter  subsided  and 
Peterson  continued.  "I  think  work  is  one  of  the  things  that  de- 
termines the  quality  of  life.  It's  hard  to  find  a  human  being  who 
doesn't  want  to  have  a  job.  And  yet  we  have  huge  numbers  of 
people  unemployed  in  this  country.  My  own  feeling  is  that  we 
ought  to  give  available  jobs  to  those  least  able  to  compete  for 
them — the  rest  of  us  could  take  care  of  ourselves."  At  that, 
Peterson  sat  down  to  enthusiastic  applause. 

Then  Peterson,  Lester  Brown  (president  of  Worldwatch  In- 


The  Future  According  to  Disney 


^^^^alt  Disney's  greatest 
\^/  dream,"  the  Experimental 

T  ▼  Prototype  Community  of 
Tomorrow  (EPCOT).  has  opened 
to  an  expectant  public.  EPCOT  was 
an  idea  that  absorbed  Disney  dur- 
ing the  last  years  of  his  life.  Almost 
20  years  in  the  making.  EPCOT 
was  initially  intended  to  be  what 
its  name  imphes:  an  experimental 
city,  master-planned  by  the  engi- 
neers of  the  imagination — the  im- 
agineers. 

According  to  Walts  vision,  in 
EPCOT  private  enterprise  could 
demonstrate  its  ability  to  solve  to- 
morrows  problems,  using  an  ac- 
tual, inhabited  city  as  laboratory, 
inspiration,  and  showcase.  EP- 
COT was  to  be  a  city  without  slums, 
unemployed,  or  political  ma- 
chines, a  city  to  which  science  and 
technology  could  be  applied  in  an 
innovative  and  experimental  way. 
Perhaps  even  more  importantly,  the 
city  was  to  inspire  new  science  and 
technology  to  emerge  from  the 
wellsprings  of  private  initiative. 

For  this  purpose  Disney  ac- 
quired a  huge  parcel  of  land  near 
Orlando.  Florida  and  sought  (and 
received)  the  cooperation  of  the 
Florida  state  legislature  and  local 
officials  F3ut  the  concept  has 
evolved  away  from  Disncys  orig- 
inal idea  Even  a  complaisant  Flor- 
ida legislature  and  Disney  show- 
manship could  not  turn  a  town  of 
living  people  into  an  experimental 
prototype — one  without  politics  and 
some  measure  of  self-determina- 
tion A  community  cannot  be  en- 
gineered as  if  It  were  a  transpor- 
tation system.  What  the  dream  has 


become  is  Epcot  Center,  a  spec- 
tacular, billion-dollar  "educational 
entertainment  park."  Part  of  Walt's 
plan,  however.  EPCOT  as  a  show- 
case for  the  latest  technology,  has 
been  retained  by  Disney's  heirs. 

The  heart  of  Epcot  Center  is  Fu- 
ture World,  a  striking  collection  of 
architecturally  intriguing  pavil- 
ions. Each  pavilion  has  a  corporate 
sponsor,  and  each  pavilion  sends 
out  basically  the  same  message,  self- 
described  as  "celebrating  the  lim- 
itless potential  of  science,  industry 
and  technology  in  creating  a  better 
tomorrow."  Better  living  through 
chemistry,  and  physics,  and  bioen- 
gineering. 

The  visitor  first  encounters  Fu- 
ture World  through  Spaceship 
Earth,  a  huge  shining  geodesic 
sphere,  weighing  15  million  pounds 
and  towering  180  feet  above  the 
entrance.  Inside,  the  Bell  System 
has  helped  mount  an  18-story,  spi- 
ralling trip  through  time,  during 


which  the  history  of  communica- 
tions is  colorfully  presented  using 
audio-animatronics  (robotic  ani- 
mation) and  electronic  special  ef- 
fects. Other  pavilions,  on  motion 
(General  Motors),  energy  (Exxon), 
and  imagination  (Kodak),  use  sim- 
ilar approaches. 

With  all  the  showmanship  in  these 
very  popular  pavilions,  the  "ex- 
perimental" concepts  have  been 
shunted  aside.  The  show-exhibits 


offer  thumbnail  histories,  rapidly 
bringing  the  audience  from  pre- 
history to  the  present,  with  only 
the  most  perfunctory  nod  to  the 
future — a  car  shaped  like  a  tear- 
drop, a  recreational  vehicle  that  in- 
flates for  use. 

There  is  one  exception.  Perhaps 
the  pavilion  closest  to  Disney's 
original  concept  is  The  Land. 


stitute),  and  Robert  Rodale  (chairman  of  Rodale  Press,  Inc.) 
answered  questions  from  the  audience. 

Q:  You  didn't  talk  much  about  the  population  problem,  and  I 
think  it's  a  very  important  one.  When  you  look  at  what  the 
population  is  going  to  be  in  2000,  you  see  that  we  can't  afford 
to  do  without  nuclear  power.  But  a  lot  of  environmentalists  as- 
sociate peaceful  nuclear  with  bombs. 

Lester  Brown:  And  so  should  you.  Next  question. 

Q:  How  do  you  get  the  message  about  the  things  we  need  to  do 
across  to  a  non-reading  public?  Most  Americans  don't  read. 

Russell  Peterson:  Oh,  there  are  plenty  of  ways  to  reach  people. 
You  can  do  it  through  classrooms,  at  luncheons  of  civic  organi- 
zations, through  women's  organizations,  through  4-H  and 
Scouts,  just  wherever  you  are.  You  have  to  inform  people  be- 
fore you  can  motivate  them. 

Robert  Rodale:  People  cannot  act  against  problems  without  in- 
formation, because  many  solutions  to  problems  are  quite  com- 
plicated. I  believe  we  need  to  create  a  technical  secretariat,  as 
John  Freedman  suggests  in  Retracking  America,  to  help  foster 
an  interplay  between  planners  and  the  public.  That's  what 
we're  trying  to  do  with  our  Cornucopia  Project,  in  which  we're 


sponsored  by  Kraft.  The  Land  is 
billed  as  one  of  the  most  techno- 
logically advanced  display  centers 
in  the  world — and  it  is.  Under  a 
six-acre  structure  visitors  are  fer- 
ried along  canals  through  desert, 
prairie,  and  rain  forest  eco-sys-, 
tems.  Along  the  trip,  actual  ex- 
perimental cultivation  schemes  are 
being  carried  out:  "outer  space" 


A  cast  of  Audio-Animatronic 
foodstuffs  stars  in  the  Kitchen 
Kabaret,  a  musical  review  on 
basic  nutrition  at  The  Land, 
an  EPCOT pavilion  spon- 
sored by  Kraft. 


lettuce  and  soil-less  tomatoes. 

The  vision  of  the  future  as  laid 
out  in  Epcot  Center  is  true  to  the 
form  established  in  all  of  Disney's 
previous  ventures.  Like  Fantasy- 
land,  Adventureland  and  Main 
Street,  Future  World  is  a  world 
without  stress,  violence,  social 
problems,  wars  or  cares.  Disney 
prided  himself  on  his  optimism,  but 
his  optimism  was  of  a  restricted  sort: 
a  view  that  was  upbeat  because  it 
admitted  no  disturbing  realities.  In 
striking  contrast  to  most  other  vi- 
sions of  the  future  common  to  the 
20th  century,  Epcot  Center's  fu- 
ture is  defanged.  Science,  tech- 
nology, imagination  and  private 
enterprise  will  work  together  to  lead 
us  to  a  clean,  safe,  pleasant  world — 
a  world  with  no  divisiveness  or 
squalor.  People  come  to  Epcot  to 
be  entertained,  and  the  education 
imparted  must  be  consistent  with 
entertainment.  The  future  accord- 
ing to  Disney  is  comfortable  and, 
above  all,  familiar.  It  is  the  future 
according  to  Norman  Rockwell. 

Familiarity  is  the  essential  ingre- 
dient in  all  of  Walt  Disney  World. 
From  Main  Street  to  Future  World, 
stereotypes,  nostalgia  and  glossy- 
magazine  images  are  recalled  from 
the  audience's  mental  and  emo- 
tional storehouse  and  made  con- 
crete. The  message  is  bland,  but 
the  mode  of  presentation  aims  to 
be  spectacular.  The  secret  of  Dis- 
neyworld  is  the  triumph  of  tech- 
nique over  content.  Truly,  here, 
the  medium  is  the  message. 

— Robert  Kargon, 

Professor  of  the  History  of  Science 

Johns  Hopkins  University 


trying  to  create  a  forum  for  ideas  about  improving  U.S.  food 
production  and  to  let  people  know  about  the  way  the  food  sys- 
tem is  controlled. 

Russell  Peterson:  I'd  Hke  to  make  a  comment  in  reply  to  the 
earlier  question  about  population.  Population  is  a  tremendous 
problem,  but  in  every  area  but  Africa,  we've  seen  a  significant 
slowing  of  growth.  A  farmer  in  Thailand  may  not  understand 
the  intricacies  of  world  trading  that  create  inflation  in  his  coun- 
try, but  he  is  able  to  see  the  relation  between  the  number  of 
children  he  and  his  wife  have  and  the  quality  of  his  family's 
life. 

Toward  the  end  of  this  session,  Brown  asked  someone  seated  in 
front  to  make  a  brief  statement.  The  man  launched  into  a  rapid, 
compressed  analysis  of  what  he  called  the  "global  diseases":  the 
war  disease,  the  population  disease,  the  environmental  disease, 
the  consumption  disease.  I  later  learned  that  this  was  Rashmi 
Mayur,  environmental  scientist,  vice  president  of  the  Global  Fu- 
tures network,  and  resident  of  Bombay,  India.  The  ubiquitous 
Mayur  worked  his  way  into  many  discussions. 

By  mid-morning  Tuesday,  I  realized  that  hardly  anyone  was 
talking  about  the  future  the  way  the  canned  commentator  in  the 
multi-image  show  did.  Rarely,  during  the  whole  five  days,  did  I 
hear  anyone  describe  a  gleaming  Tomorrowland.  The  future  most 
speakers  talked  about  was  amorphous,  exceedingly  general.  On 
the  whole,  they  focused  on  inequities  and  dangerous  imbalances 
in  current  world  systems.  They  extrapolated  loosely  from  the 
present,  concluding  that  something  must  be  done  if  humankind, 
and  life  itself,  are  to  survive.  The  future,  if  things  continue  as 
is,  will  be  horrific,  many  seemed  to  say,  but  things  don't  have 
to  continue  as  is  because  we  have  the  power  to  change  them. 
Their  attitudes  swung  parabolically — down  into  gloom  when  they 
talked  about  the  future-as-extension-of-the-present,  and  up  into 
hope  when  they  talked  about,  well,  a  "sustainable  future."  A 
"better"  world,  a  global  village,  a  more  just  and  less  hierarchical 
society,  an  ecological  whole  Earth  system:  these  were  the  vague 
positive  shapes  of  their  hoped-for  future. 

Like  most  Utopian  visions,  it  sounded  lovely,  but  I  doubted 
the  likelihood  of  its  ever  arriving.  It  was  unlike  most  Utopian 
visions,  which  are  generally  presented  as  ends  sans  means.  This 
future — and  finally,  it  did  seem  to  be  a  single  entity  made  up  of 
many  parts,  like  a  jellyfish — seemed  to  be  an  extension  of  grass- 
roots organization  and  high  technology.  In  other  words,  the  means 
become  the  end. 

■■■■  uckminster  Fuller  and  Herman  Kahn,  whom  many  con- 

Bsider  archetypal  futurists,  challenged  pessimistic  atti- 
tudes about  the  world's  fate.  Fuller  did  so  indirectly,  by 
way  of  his  unbridled  ingenuity,  Kahn  not  so  indirectly. 

At  first  glance.  Fuller  and  Kahn  might  seem  to  be  at  antipodes. 
In  many  important  ways  they  are,  but  they  do  share  a  common 
belief:  that  people  are  capable  of  solving  the  world's  current 
problems  to  bring  about  a  bright  future. 

Fuller  spoke  at  Monday's  luncheon.  The  day  before,  he  had 
unveiled  a  Dymaxion  World  Map  the  size  of  a  basketball  court, 
on  which  red  tiddlywinks  represented  the  destruction  nuclear 
warheads  could  wreak.  The  tiddlywinks — one  for  each  nuclear 
warhead  on  earth — had  obliterated  all  the  landmasses  but  Ant- 
arctica. 

Nine  years  ago.  I  heard  Fuller  speak  at  California  Institute  of 
Technology,  and  it  was  sad  to  see  that  he  now  has  slowed  to  a 
cane.  His  speech,  too,  has  slowed.  At  87,  he  no  longer  thinks 
out  loud  at  a  near  incomprehensible  clip.  As  always,  though, 
Fuller  ranged  far  afield,  elaborating  and  illuminating  his  fun- 
damental tenet  that  humanity  can  survive  on  Spaceship  Earth 


FEBRUARY  1983     IX 


Rotating 
Buildings  ? 


SS^he  human  race  has  moved, 

I  from  caves  to  castles  to  high- 
^  rise  apartment  buildings,  and 
all  three  residences  have  one  thing 
in  common — they're  difficult  to 
heat.  So  whats  next,  now  that  weve 
become  so  energy  conscious?  Well, 
how  about  a  mobile  highrise,  one 
that  follows  the  sun?  Or  a  house 
whose  walls  open  up  during  the  day 
and  close  at  night,  like  the  petals 
of  a  flower?  These  are  some  of  the 
future  architectural  developments 
envisioned  by  Professor  Walter  M. 
Kroner,  director  of  Rensselaer  Po- 
lytechnic Institutes  Center  for  Ar- 
chitectural Research. 

Kroner  says  that  today's  build- 
ings are  static  and  too  limited  in 
function.  Seasons  change,  weather 
changes,  people's  needs  change — 
but  buildings  remain  the  same.  He 
offers  several  examples  of  "dy- 
namic architecture"  based  on  the 
premise  that  technology  now  exists 
to  make  buildings  more  responsive 
to  changes  in  environment. 

"If  you're  walking  into  a  cold 
wind,"  Kroner  notes,  "you  turn 
your  back  to  it."  He  says  we  should 
design  buildings  that  can  rotate  to 
turn  an  insulated  face  to  the  north 
or  to  windward.  Rotating  restau- 
rants have  been  built  atop  hotels, 
and  railroad  switching  yards  use 
turntables  to  rotate  heavy  loco- 
motives. "If  we  can  build  a  Saturn 
rocket — which  is  analogous  to  a 
skyscraper — and  move  it  to  its 
launching  pad.  we  can  build  a  mov- 
able skyscraper,  or  one  that  rotates 
on  a  fixed  base  to  track  the  sun" 
Buildings  floating  like  oceanliners 
could  do  the  same  thing.  Kroner 
also  envisions  buildings  that  sub- 
merge like  submarines  to  protect 
themselves  from  bad  weather. 

These  visions  belong  to  a  distant 
future,  he  admits.  "Closer  to  real- 
ity— or  acceptability.  I  should  say — 
we  can  have  buildmgs  with  walls 
that  change  from  morning  to  cve- 
nmg.  collecting  or  dispersing  heat. 
Buildmgs  will  be  more  analogous 
t( 


to  wear  each  day  depends  at  least 
partially  on  the  weather,  he  ex- 
plains. "On  a  cold  day,  you  wear 
a  sweater.  If  the  day  warms  up, 
vou  take  it  off."  Houses,  too,  could 
respond  to  the  weather.  Kroner  says 
that  walls  can  be  designed  that  react 
to  heat  and  light,  so  that  on  a  warm 
dav.  the  walls  open  up  or  become 
more  permeable.  On  a  cold  day, 
the  walls  close  up  and  gather  heat 
from  the  sun.  "Water  can  be 
pumped  through  the  walls  to  ra- 
diate heat  where  it  is  needed." 

Kroner  envisions  another  change 
that  could  conserve  both  energy  and 
space.  As  it  is  now,  he  says,  we 
have  many  single-use  buildings, 
such  as  churches,  theaters,  stadi- 
ums, or  the  lobbies  of  office  build- 
ings. A  building  that  sits  vacant  for 
five  out  of  seven  days  is  wasteful. 
Buildings  can  be  designed  to  serve 
multipurposes.  or  to  serve  both 
public  and  private  needs.  For  ex- 
ample, a  theater,  which  has  a  slop- 
ing floor,  could  be  built  with  a  hy- 
draulic lift  to  make  the  floor  flat, 
so  the  building  could  be  used  as  a 
gymnasium  when  it's  not  in  use  as 
a  theater. 

Finally,  Kroner  suggests  a  new 
approach  to  city  planning.  As  it  is 
now,  most  cities  are  autonomous. 
Each  has  its  own  cultural  and  en- 
tertainment centers,  business  and 
shopping  districts.  Kroner  envi- 
sions a  time  when  each  city  will 
specialize  in  a  single  service;  cities 
will  be  connected  by  high-speed 
transit.  "In  this  way.  you  reduce 
the  requirement  of  every  city  hav- 
ing all  things  for  all  people."  Does 
this  mean  that  you  might  work  in 
Washington,  shop  in  Philadelphia, 
and  catch  a  show  that  night  in  New 
York?  Kroner  does  not  find  that 
far-fetched,  pointing  out  that  this 
country  already  has  some  highly 
specialized  cities.  "What  is  Las  Ve- 
gas but  a  big  fun  city?  What  is 
Washington,  D.C.  but  one  big  ad- 
ministrative citv?"  What,  indeed? 
—PR 


by  using  technology  to  do  "more  and  more  with  less  and  less." 
"When  I  was  young,"  he  began,  "humanity  was  remotely  de- 
ployed on  the  globe.  If  I  went  up  into  the  second  floor  of  our 
house,  I  could  see  14  miles  every  way  to  the  horizon.  People 
normally  stayed  close  in,  inside  those  horizons.  Our  conditioned 
reflexes  were  based  on  our  seeing  a  lot  of  each  other. 

"We  all  walked  a  lot  within  those  boundaries,  and  we  wanted 
to  know  how  far  we  went,  so  we  wore  pedometers.  According 
to  those  pedometers,  the  average  person  walked  about  1,100 
miles  a  year,  and  rode  about  the  same.  After  World  War  II,  a 
salesman  drove  30,000  miles  a  year,  an  average  person  about 
10.000.  and  they  walked  the  same  1,100  miles. 

"Shortly  after  World  War  II,  people  were  moving  about  every 
five  years.  They  no  longer  stayed  inside  those  horizons.  Now, 
it's  closer  to  every  one-and-a-half  years.  One-and-a-half  years," 
he  mused.  "It  seems  incompatible  with  30-year  mortgages,  doesn't 
it?"  Pained  laughter. 

"Now  we've  got  the  highway  system,"  Fuller  went  on,  "and 
humanity  is  going  in  different  directions.  The  old  customs,  laws, 
and  the  shapes  of  the  cities  have  nothing  to  do  really  with  the 
wav  we  now  live.  We  have  to  look  at  the  whole  world  now  to 
know  what's  going  on. 

"In  the  past  50  years  or  so,  we've  begun  more  and  more  to 
move  from  what  I  call  the  visible  reality  to  the  invisible  reality. 
X-rays,  radio  waves,  electricity — we  use  resources.  99.99  percent 
of  which  no  one  knew  were  there  when  I  was  born  in  1895,  and 
99.99  percent  of  which  are  non-contactable  by  the  human  senses. 
I  think  there's  enough  of  everything  to  go  around."  concluded 
Fuller.  "It  depends  on  how  we  utilize  what  we  have.  A  geodesic 
dome,  for  instance,  uses  a  small  fraction  of  the  materials  that  a 
conventional  structure  takes." 

On  Wednesday,  I  heard  Kahn  speak.  He  looks  like  Henry 
VIII  with  wire-rimmed  glasses.  "A  lot  of  people  don't  like  the 
undercurrent  of  optimism  and  hope  that  runs  through  my  work," 
he  began  his  extemporaneous  talk.  "A  lot  of  people  call  me  an 
eternal  optimist.  Actually,  with  the  manic  pessimism  in  this  coun- 
try, a  realist — and  that's  what  I  really  am — looks  like  a  manic 
optimist.  Pessimism  pervades  this  country. 

"People  seem  unable  to  see  what's  in  front  of  their  faces.  In 
fact,  that's  been  true  since  I  was  a  kid.  One  time  in  elementary 
school,  the  teacher  said,  and  everyone  in  the  class  agreed  with 
her.  that  wars  never  settle  anything.  What  did  she  mean,  wars 
never  settle  anything?  Of  course  they  settle  things.  I  got  into  a 
big  argument  and  lost.  While  everyone  else  was  out  for  recess, 
I  wrote  on  the  board  '32  Things  Settled  by  War.'  Number  one, 
American  freedom  from  England.  Number  two,  the  possession 
of  Mexico.  Number  three,  and  on.  Everyone  came  in  from  recess 
and  we  got  in  another  big  argument  and  I  lost  again.  But  I  was 
right!  This  country,  particularly  the  press,  suffers  from  what 
Webern  calls  'educated  incapacity.'  People  are  overeducated, 
and  have  an  inability  to  deal  with  problems. 

"Every  major  issue  that  you  can  name  in  the  last  decade — law 
and  order,  busing,  gun  laws,  pornography,  sex  education — has 
been  mishandled  by  the  press.  Did  anyone  ever  think  that  busing 
kids  long  distances  to  bad  schools  was  the  way  to  solve  the  black 
problem?  I  could  have  told  them  it  couldn't  bo  done  in  a  de- 
mocracy. It  can't! 

"The  whole  business  about  the  energy  crisis  is  one  of  the 
biggest  hoaxes  of  all  time.  It  simply  isn't  the  case  that  we'll  run 
out  of  fossil  fuels — its  not  possible.  What  are  some  of  the  con- 
ceptual frauds  the  press  has  perpetrated  about  oil?  'Gas  prices 
have  been  going  up  for  the  last  decade.'  that's  one.  In  fact,  in 
terms  of  the  fixed  1972  dollar,  oil  has  gone  down  20  percent. 


V'»i- 


Wiilicr  Kroner 


Intergalactic  Travel 


Taking  the  Kids  Along 


Qcy^^J^ 


"OK.  The  press  claims  that  demand  is  going  to  continue  to 
grow  and  that  we're  going  to  run  out  of  oil.  As  a  matter  of  fact, 
according  to  Exxon  projections,  there's  going  to  be  a  drop  in 
demand  over  the  next  decade.  That's  already  started  to  happen. 
What  were  the  mistakes  that  the  press  made  there?"  A  slide 
goes  up:  "They  ignored  the  possibility  and  probability  of  the 
following:  energy  conservation;  accelerating  U.S.  and  worldwide 
production;  breakthroughs  in  petroleum  technology;  changes  in 
the  structure  of  OPEC;  unconventional  sources  of  oil  and  gas; 
in  situ  conversion;  and  the  early  arrival  of  long-term  technology. 

"If  there's  an  energy  problem  it's  because  there's  too  much 
governmental  restriction  of  strip  mining,  nuclear  power,  and  oil 
and  gas  production.  That's  what  is  causing  stagflation,  not  the 
budget  deficit.  If  you  look  at  the  debt  in  constant  dollars,  you'll 
see  that  the  debt  has  been  paid  off  many  times  over  the  past 
decade  by  inflation. 

"The  information  you  receive  through  the  media  is  highly 
slanted  toward  pessimism.  But  I  can  tell  you,  there  are  good 
things  to  come."  Kahn  didn't  tell  what  those  things  were;  he  said 
we  could  read  his  book. 


y  this  time  it  was  obvious  that  most  futurists  see  basically 
two  avenues  to  a  sustainable  future:  technological  ad- 
vances and  people  networks.  I  moved  on  to  two  sessions 
which  promised  me  an  overview  of  the  former. 


Session  2201:  There  Robert  Lucky,  exuberant  executive  di- 
rector of  Communications  Services  at  Bell  Labs,  outlined  some 
of  the  esoteric  refinements  now  being  tested  at  Bell.  Take  mi- 
croelectronics. Fingernail-size  chips  which  carry  250,000  bits  (units 
of  information)  now  exist.  But,  said  Lucky,  "you  ain't  seen  nothin' 
yet.  It's  scary.  We're  getting  to  the  point  where  we  think  a 
600,000-bit  chip  is  perfectly  possible." 

And  then  there's  photonics,  the  use  of  optical  fibers  for  sending 
messages.  Bell  has  already  installed  15,000  miles  of  optical  fibers 
this  year,  25  times  more  than  in  1981.  A  single  optical  fiber  can 
replace  a  bunch  of  copper  wire  thick  as  a  thumb  and  carry  up 
to  90,000  conversations.  "Now  we're  experimenting  with  sending 
pulses  that  are  only  femptoseconds  [fempto  =  one-quadrillionth] 
long — a  femptosecond  is  so  short  that  light  only  travels  one-fifth 
the  length  of  a  human  hair  in  that  time — so  that  we  could  send 
a  billion  messages  before  Bell  would  even  earn  a  penny — not 
that  Bell  is  thrilled  with  that  prospect.  Using  femptosecond  mes- 
sage units,  every  conversation  going  on  in  the  U.S.  at  one  time 
could  be  carried  by  a  single  fiber." 

Some  more  "mundane  services"  that  Lucky  said  Bell  may  soon 
offer  are: 

1.  A  telephone  number  attached  to  person  rather  than  place. 
"You  could  dial  a  friend,  and  wherever  he  was,  the  phone 
would  ring." 

2.  A  phone  which  tells  who's  calling  before  you  pick  it  up. 


FEBRUARY  1983    XI 


3.  Data  communication  networks  for  people  or  companies  who 
want  to  share  information. 

4.  Picturephone^**  meeting  serNice.  hke  a  conference  call  with 
visibility. 

5.  ■"Intelligent"  telephones  which  can  send  electronic  mail, 
check  your  calendar  for  you.  and  look  up  numbers  in  your  per- 
sonal directory. 

6.  Information  kiosks  with  touch-sensitive  TV  screens  which 
will  give  you  information  about  restaurants,  hotels,  rides  (Dis- 
neyworld  has  a  test  kiosk),  then  give  you  access  to  a  data  base 
with  additional  information. 

7.  A  Good  Samaritan  computer  in  your  car  which  gives  infor- 
mation such  as  the  best  route  from  Tucson  to  Tucumcari.  tells 
which  stores  are  open  along  the  way.  and  offers  advice.  (If  peo- 
ple do  this,  it's  called  back-seat  driving.) 

8.  Home  information  systems  which  let  you  plug  into  local  li- 
brary listings,  train  times,  newspapers,  etcetera.  People  in 
Coral  Gables.  Florida  are  testing  a  prototype  for  Bell. 

9.  Remote  control  of  appliances  by  phone.  In  addition  to  turn- 
ing on  and  off  the  oven,  the  600  families  in  North  Carolina 
testing  this  system  are  able  to  arrange  phone  hook-up  with  util- 
ity companies  to  draw  power  out  of  plants  at  non-peak  hours 
and  store  it.  Power  stations  are  spared  brownouts,  and  people 
get  energy  at  low  rates. 

10.  Computer  games.  Besides  being  able  to  dial  bridge  partners 
and  play  a  game  via  terminals.  Lucky  thinks  you  will  eventually 
be  able  to  dial  a  number  and  drive  a  Grand  Prix  race  on  a  real- 
istic track  shown  on  the  terminal  screen. 


Of  course,  said  Lucky,  these  developments  depend  on  someone 
finding  enough  money  to  pay  for  them. 

Paul  Strassman,  a  PhD  in  strategic  planning  from  MIT,  now 
a  vice  president  with  Xerox  Corporation,  took  the  microphone 
and  put  a  big  damper  on  Lucky's  tinkly  forecast.  "My  colleague's 
talk  exemplified  the  quintessence  of  the  supply-side  mentality — 
there's  a  plethora  of  gadgets,  if  people  could  only  afford  them. 
I'm  here  to  tell  you  about  the  harsh  reality  of  the  demand  side." 
Basically,  Strassman  doubts  that  capital  will  be  available,  either 
in  the  U.S.  or  globally,  to  get  everyone  onto  the  high-tech  band- 
wagon. Right  now.  he  argued,  there  is  a  "misallocation  of  capital 
to  the  workforce."  Worldwide  expenditures  for  information  tech- 
nology or  hardware,  he  said,  "are  quite  low.  Only  a  small  number 
o(  countries  are  buying  equipment  today." 

Even  in  the  U.S.,  distribution  of  hardware  is  less  extensive 
than  one  might  think.  When  you  look  at  the  cost  of  dealing  out 
word  processors  and  other  information  paraphernalia  to  the 
workforce,  Strassman  said,  you  sec  that  there  are  great  barriers 
to  getting,  say,  50  percent  of  the  workforce  supplied  by  1990. 
Business  would  have  to  increase  its  capital  investment  to  ap- 
proximately $25,0(K)  per  worker  to  do  that — roughly  double  the 
present  per  worker  investment.  "It's  hard  to  take  resources  that 
have  been  going  somewhere  else  and  apply  them  to  this.  Unless 
business  learns  how  to  increase  capital  investment,  particularly 
in  equipment  for  managerial  and  technical  workers,  I'm  not  op- 
timistic— despite  the  tremendous  power  of  the  new  technology, 
and  the  fact  that  its  highly  profitable — that  we'll  see  worldwide 
adoption  of  these  technologies." 

^^^^  lit  what  happens  when  the  technologies  are  adopted? 

B>()u  get  something  like  California's  Silicon  Valley.  "Sil- 
icon Valley,"  said  Ivverett  Rogers,  organizer  and  mod- 
erator of  Session  1410,  "is  one  scenario — warts  and  all — 
of  the  future.  Others  being  Route  12S  in  Massachusetts.  Silicon 
Desert  in  Dallas,  and  Silicon  Mountain.  Colorado  Springs." 


The  session  speakers  had  seen  the  future.  Did  it  work? 

"California,"  quipped  Jorge  Schement,  associate  professor  at 
Annenberg's  branch  at  the  University  of  Southern  California, 
"is  different  from  the  rest  of  the  U.S.  It's  weird,  but  it  has  to 
be  taken  seriously.  It  has  3  percent  of  the  labor  force  in  the 
country,  and  produces  25  percent  of  the  agricultural  products. 
If  California  were  a  separate  nation,  it  would  have  the  thirteenth 
largest  GNP  in  the  world." 

Fifty-one  percent  of  the  labor  force  in  California  works  to 
produce,  recycle,  or  maintain  information.  That  number  is  grow- 
ing, and  Schement's  studies  show  that  workers  are  shifting  mainly 
out  of  jobs  in  the  agricultural  sector  to  take  up  positions  in  the 
information  industry. 

But  there  is  a  problem.  For  the  information  sector  to  keep 
growing.  California  needs  more  workers  with  high-  and  middle- 
level  skills  (engineers,  programmers,  writers).  The  state  would 
prefer  not  to  import  those  workers,  so  an  intensive  education 
effort  is  needed,  which  in  turn  requires  talented  teachers  and 
professors.  But  because  industry  can  outbuy  school  systems,  col- 
leges, and  universities,  Schement  said,  California  schools  are  in 
for  trouble.  Where  are  they  going  to  get  the  teachers?  "California 
simply  has  to  educate  its  masses,  and  that's  why,  in  many  ways, 
it  can  be  called  a  developing  country." 

In  addition,  the  balance  of  power  may  shift  as  the  workforce 
becomes  increasingly  divided  into  high-skill  and  low-skill  groups. 
"Having  an  elite  labor  force  can  be  tricky.  If  the  poor  have  many 
votes,  that  translates  into  a  kind  of  power.  But  if  you  see  an 
increasing  concentration  of  voting  power  in  the  hands  of  the 
income  rich — which  is  what  we're  seeing — then  what  will  hap- 
pen?" 

Some  of  the  social  costs  are  obvious  already,  said  Judith  Lar- 
sen.  Larsen,  a  senior  research  assistant  at  Cognos  Associates, 
showed  slides  of  Silicon  Valley,  the  smokeless  factories  cheek- 
by-jowl  down  a  20-mile  section  of  the  San  Francisco  peninsula. 
"Not  everything  is  ideal,"  she  commented.  Some  6500  acres  of 
prime  farmland  vanished  in  the  feverish  period  between  1950 
and  1975,  when  37  landscaped  industrial  parks  were  constructed. 
Longtime  residents  were  driven  out  and  housing  costs  rocketed. 
In  1950,  there  were  78,000  housing  units  in  the  area.  In  1975, 
there  were  325,000  multiple-dwelling  units  (apartments,  condos), 
and  500,000  single  dwellings  (many  in  communities  zoned  to 
require  at  least  five  acres  per  dwelling).  The  influx  of  people 
still  overwhelmed  available  housing.  High  rents  and  housing  costs 
drove  low-level  workers  20  and  30  miles  away,  to  San  Jose  or 
San  Mateo,  to  find  affordable  housing.  Public  transportation  is 
"dismal,"  said  Larsen,  so  bottom-level  workers  are  tied  into  a 
long  commute  on  the  overcrowded  Bayshore  Freeway  (known 
as  the  "Bloody  Bayshore"). 

These  results,  claimed  Everett  Rogers,  are  the  logical  exten- 
sion of  forms  of  production  in  the  information  industry.  In  the 
hands  of  both  U.S.  and  Japanese  supercapitalists.  Rogers  said, 
information  technology — both  its  production  and  implementa- 
tion— only  magnifies  the  gap  between  rich  and  poor. 

^^^■B  iscussions  of  new  technology  were  fairly  straightfor- 

Dward:  Here  is  the  hardware,  now  what  are  we  going  to 
do  with  it?  When  it  came  to  the  other  means  to  change, 
people,  discussions  could  follow  weird  and  circuitous 
routes.  Take  session  2306,  for  instance. 

Session  2.306  met  in  the  enormous  Washington  Ballroom,  which 
was  jammed.  As  soon  as  I  saw  who  was  at  the  table  on  stage,  I 
knew  why:  there  had  been  a  shrewd  PR  campaign.  Earlier  in 
the  day,  I  waited  through  an  endless  line  to  the  phone  bank. 


Xli    ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


WvTER,  ^X^TER  Everywhere 


S^ach  person  on  Earth  needs  two 
1^  liters  of  water  each  day  to 
X^  stave  off  dehydration.  While 
the  average  person  in  the  United 
States  uses  700  liters  daily  (wash- 
ing, cooking,  watering  lawns),  an 
estimated  two  billion  people 
worldwide  lack  an  easily  obtaina- 
ble supply  of  safe  water.  In  rural 
sections  of  Third  World  nations, 
women  and  children  may  spend 
eight  hours  each  day  traveling  to 
and  from  the  nearest  source  of 
water. 

The  United  Nations  has  de- 
clared 1981-1990  the  International 
Drinking  Water  Supply  and  Sani- 
tation Decade,  but  will  the  ambi- 
tious program,  undertaken  in  an 
era  of  global  economic  woes,  suc- 
ceed? "I'm  one  of  the  skeptics," 
says  environmental-health  engi- 
neer Kazuyoshi  Kawata.  The  pro- 
gram, says  the  Johns  Hopkins 
School  of  Hygiene  professor,  "has 
already  failed  in  many  areas,  al- 
though Latin  America  is  doing  bet- 
ter than  Africa."  Abel  Wolman,  a 
Hopkins  professor  emeritus  and  an 
international  water  expert,  agrees: 
"Real  progress  has  been  made  only 
in  Central  and  South  America,  the 
regions  with  greater  resources  in 
skilled  manpower  and  monies."  The 
African  deserts  continue  to  grow. 

In  contrast,  predicted  water 
shortages  in  the  United  States  take 
on  what  planners  call  a  "local"  as- 
pect. "For  the  U.S.  as  a  whole," 
says  M.  Gordon  Wolman,  a  Johns 
Hopkins  environmental  engineer, 
"there  is  not  a  shortage  of  water. 
There  are  areas  of  intensive  use — 
parts  of  the  Southwest  and  the 
Plains  states — which  may  not  be 
able  to  continue  using  water  as  they 
have."  Solutions?  Changing  from 
agriculture  to  less-water  uses  of  the 
land,  better  water  management, 
or — in  the  distant  future — import- 
ing water.  Everyone  will  still  have 
enough  water  to  drink.  Barring 
natural  disasters,  of  course.  "If  an 
earthquake  destroyed  the  aque- 
ducts that  Los  Angeles  depends 
on,"  warns  Theodore  Crusberg,  of 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute's 
biology  and  biotechnology  depart- 
ment, "L.A.  would  be  in  big  trou- 
ble." 

Cities  around  the  world,  includ- 
ing those  in  so-called  developing 
nations,  already  face  a  common 
problem.  Most  urban  water  sys- 
tems were  built  early  in  the  20th 
century,  with  pipes  made  to  last  50 
or  60  years.  In  many  cases,  those 
pipes  have  been  in  place  70  years 
or  more.  Kawata  tells  stories  ot  pa- 
per-thin pipes  in  Cairo,  of  pipes  in 
Manila  so  corroded  that  the  area 


wmitm^am0st 


through  which  water  can  flow  is 
less  than  half  the  original  cross-sec- 
tion. 

Closer  to  home,  the  New  York 
City  public-works  department  is 
said  to  avoid  touching  some  of  its 


water  valves,  fearing  that  the  cor- 
roded valves  would  burst  if  turned. 
Each  year,  Baltimore  City  loses  an 
estimated  18  percent  of  its  water 
through  leaks  and  "unaccounted- 
for  water."  Utilities  workers  still 


find  wooden  pipes  in  use  in  many 
cities.  "We're  about  20  years  be- 
hind in  maintenance  of  all  sys- 
tems," estimates  Abel  Wolman, 
"both  water  and  wastewater."  The 
solution  is  "rehabilitation.  It  means 
orderly  planning  of  major  repairs, 
work  that  will  cost  billions  of  dol- 
lars, but  which  will  have  to  be  done 
on  a  piecemeal  basis,  year  by  year." 

Corroded  pipes  mean  lost  water; 
they  can  also  mean  impure  water. 
In  fact,  says  Gordon  Wolman, 
"water  quantity  may  not  be  the 
problem — it  may  be  water  qual- 
ity." Daniel  Pope,  director  of  the 
Freshwater  Institute  at  Rensselaer 
Polytechnic  Institute,  agrees.  An 
expert  on  Legionnaires'  disease,  he 
studies  what  he  calls  "a  whole  new 
set  of  diseases  related  to  modern 
technology — and  related  to  water." 
Cholera  and  salmonella  are  no 
longer  threats  for  industrialized 
nations;  PCBs  and  other  carcino- 
gens are.  The  danger  of  ground- 
waters contaminated  by  hazardous 
wastes  is  real,  says  Charles  O'Me- 
lia,  a  wastewater  expert  at  Johns 
Hopkins. 

One  possible  solution  is  a  return 
to  ocean  dumping.  The  sites,  of 
course,  would  have  to  be  carefully 
picked.  "It  depends  on  what  the 
substance  is,"  says  O'Melia.  "Some 
should  be  placed  where  they  can 
be  dissolved,  carried  away."  He 
adds,  "I  don't  think  it  will  be  good 
for  the  ocean,  but  it  may  be  nec- 
essary." 

Another  threat  to  water  quality 
is  acid  rain,  much  talked  about  in 
the  press.  "Evidence  is  gradually 
accumulating,"  says  Gordon  Wol- 
man, "that  acid  rain  is  more  of  a 
problem  than  many  would  have 
predicted  a  decade  ago — with 
damage  to  lakes  and  rivers,  as  well 
as  deleterious  effects  on  forests, 
soils,  and  materials."  Liming  lakes 
in  New  York's  Adirondacks,  for 
example,  to  restore  proper  pH  bal- 
ance is  what  Daniel  Pope  calls  "a 
great  solution — so  long  as  you  don't 
have  to  do  it  every  year."  But 
Charles  O'Melia  warns,  "It's  not 
going  to  be  a  single-shot  process. 
Lakes  are  still  going  to  receive  acid 
rain,  and  the  sediments  at  the  lake 
bottom  are  also  acidic." 

And,  finally,  what  about  "the 
greenhouse  effect"?  It's  too  early 
to  tell,  says  Gordon  Wolman,  but 
a  real  warming-up  of  the  Earth, 
over  the  next  100  years  or  so,  could 
mean  the  melting  of  polar  ice  caps. 
The  sea  level  would  begin  to  rise, 
flooding  coastal  areas.  "It's  hap- 
pened before,"  he  notes  with  a 
geographer's  long-range  vision. 

— MRY 


FEBRUARY  1983     XIII 


When  I  reached  the  head  of  the  Hne,  a  woman  with  voluminous 
skirts  and  Medusa-like  hair  put  her  hand  over  the  mouthpiece 
of  the  phone  she  was  monopolizing  and  said.  "What  medium 
are  you  from?"  Medium?  She  had  noticed  my  press  badge.  "Have 
you  heard  about  the  mind-to-mind  session  this  afternoon?"  she 
asked.  I  said  that  I  had,  but  planned  to  hear  Rashmi  Mayur  talk 
about  communications  and  global  economic  development.  "Don't 
go  hear  him."  she  said,  "he  always  says  the  same  thing.  I  hear 
this  mind-to-mind  thing  is  going  to  be  great.  They're  supposed 
to  reveal  the  results  of  some  research  that's  never  been  discussed 
yet."  I  shrugged,  she  went  back  to  her  phone  and — back  at  the 
Washington  Ballroom — w  ho  should  be  sitting  on  stage?  Who  else 
but  my  informant.  Carol  Rosin.  This  medium.  I  said  to  myself. 
has  been  manipulated. 

James  Beal.  an  engineer  for  Martin  Marietta,  began  the  session 
with  a  talk  about  the  need  to  unlearn  the  definition  of  reality 
"that  has  been  imposed  on  us.  How?  Via  various  Asian  mind/ 
body  disciplines  (such  as  tai  ch'i),  externally  imposed  low  fre- 
quency sound,  harmony  generators  (?),  vertical  swings,  sensory 
deprivation  tanks.  Biofeedback.  The  electromagnetic  induce- 
ment of  sense  data.  The  Neurophone — a  thing  that  emits  a 
"scratchy,  thin  frequency"  which  shifts  you  into  your  creative, 
non-verbal  right  brain  and  allows  you  to  "empathize  and  pick 
up  on  people's  attitudes,  to  know  what's  wrong  with  them." 

Soon,  Beal  thinks,  even  newer  technology  will  lead  us  into  a 


new  world  of  enlightenment.  Soon  it  will  be  possible  to  feed 
sound  and  light  straight  into  people's  heads.  There  will  be  ways 
to  actually  record  experience,  a  vacation,  say,  and  replay  it  so 
you  feel  again  all  the  things  you  felt  then.  (All  of  them?  I  hoped 
Beal  or  someone  else  would  devise  an  editing  mechanism.) 

Then  Thomas  Beardon,  a  "senior  advisory  engineer"  (no  af- 
filiation) from  Huntsville.  Alabama,  took  the  mike,  saying, 
"Nothing  that  you  take  for  certain  now  is  certain."  Beardon's 
baritone  and  unshakable  delivery  made  him  sound  like  a  TV 
evangelist.  "Scientific  method  does  not  yield  truth,"  he  intoned. 
"Time  is  not  objective.  Scientific  instruments  destroy  time  in  the 
very  act  of  measuring  it.  Scientific  instruments  only  measure  a 
partial  reality."  (So  far,  it  sounds  familiar — but  wait.) 

"What  do  we  lose  when  we  measure  only  part  of  reality?" 
Beardon  demanded.  "What  is  the  only  thing  that  occupies  time 
but  no  space?"  He  paused  portentously.  "Being! — We  under- 
stand from  spatial  relativity  that  time  can  be  converted  into  length. 
That  means  instruments  can  be  built  to  measure  mind!  I  won't 
go  into  it  here,  but  take  my  word  for  it.  Such  instruments  exist! 

"Nikola  Tesla  discovered  the  22  flaws  in  electromagnetic  the- 
ory and  he  was  suppressed.  Why?  Because  he  would  have  pro- 
vided free  energy  to  the  entire  world.  [Tesla,  an  electrical  en- 
gineer, worked  with  high-tension  electricity  and  alternating  current 
transmission,  among  other  things,  and  designed  the  power  gen- 
erating system  at  Niagara  Falls.]  I  won't  elaborate  here,  but  it 


Corn  Stalks  into  Chemicals? 


SSShe  age-old  practice  of  burn- 
I  ing  wood  for  energy  is  inef- 
JL  ficient  and  lacks  finesse.  In 
the  near  future,  wood — and  bio- 
mass  in  genera! — will  likely  be  used 
in  cleverer  ways.  With  modern-day 
alchemy,  biomass  can  be  trans- 
formed into  cattle  feed  and  paper 
pulp — as  well  as  a  number  of  prod- 
ucts normally  produced  from  pe- 
troleum feedstocks.  In  fact,  ac- 
cording to  Rensselaer  Polytechnic 
Institute  engineer  Henry  R.  Bun- 
gay, wood  chips,  corn  stover,  and 
sugar  cane  will  soon  compete  with 
hydrocarbons  for  a  share  of  the 
chemical  manufacturing  market. 

Supported  in  its  early  stages  pri- 
marily by  Department  of  Energy 
grants,  most  research  on  biomass 
conversion  has  sought  cheap  alter- 
natives to  fossil  fuels,  such  as 
methane  and  methanol.  Bungay, 
however,  a  professor  in  RPIs 
chemical  and  environmental  engi- 
neering department,  argues  that 
while  such  fuels  arc  technically  fea- 
sible, they're  economically  im- 
practical. Better,  he  wrote  in  a  re- 
cent survey  in  Science  magazine,  to 
convert  wood  or  high-ccllulosc  ag- 
ricultural leftovers  into  valuable 
cellulose  pulp.  Iignin.  and  glucose- 
rich  syrups  at  a  competitive  cost. 
The  bulk  of  biomass  used  in  such 
operations  would  come  from  two 
main  stjurccs:  trees  and  corn  stover. 


Corn  stover — what's  left  of  plants 
once  ears  have  been  harvested — is 
normally  plowed  back  into  fields 
for  erosion  control  and  to  provide 
organic  nutrients  necessary  to  soil 
health.  The  topic  is  controversial, 
but  Bungay  says  that  as  a  rule  of 
thumb  one  half  of  every  crop  should 
be  plowed  under  to  aid  nitrogen 
fixation;  the  rest  could  go  to  bio- 
mass conversion.  The  best  source 
of  wood  would  not  be  fast-growing 
pine,  already  farmed  for  lumber, 
but  fast-growing  hardwoods  such 
as  poplar,  which  can  be  coppiced 
to  increase  yields.  Nurseries  ex- 
perimenting with  this  method  of 
pruning  have  harvested  as  much  as 
15  dry  tons  per  acre  per  year  (nor- 
mal stands  in  the  same  area  only 
yield  one  to  two  tons).  It  is  also 
possible  to  use  other  feedstocks: 
pilot  plants  in  oil-poor  Puerto  Rico 
use  a  special  strain  of  "energy"  cane 
which  provides  enough  growth  to 
satisfy  both  sugar  refining  and  bio- 
mass conversion  needs. 

Given  a  bunch  of  high-cellulose 
biomass,  there  are  several  ways  of 
refining  it,  many  recently  devel- 
oped. All  result  in  the  decompo- 
sition of  the  biomass  into  its  three 
main  components  (or  variations 
thereof):  cellulose  and  hemicellu- 
lose.  carbohydrate  polymers  which 
can  be  broken  down  into  sugars; 
and  liunin.  the  loueh  polviiicr  lh;il 


XIV   ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


is  now  possible  to  take  matter  apart  like  a  pretzel  and  put  it 
together.  Using  Tesla's  scalar  longitudinal  waves,  I  can  take  that 
table  apart  and  reassemble  it  over  there,  without  doing  any  work!" 

A  lot  of  people  turned  towards  the  back  wall,  waiting  for  the 
table  to  de/  and  rematerialize.  It  did  neither. 

Beardon  resumed  his  oration,  unfazed.  "What  are  the  impli- 
cations of  this?  It  means  that  we  now  have  the  ability  to  shake 
up  the  stream  of  time.  If  the  stream  of  time  is  shaken  up,  it's 
like  being  on  the  end  of  a  log  bouncing  in  water." 

Beardon  said  he  sees  three  possible  futures.  One,  that  incon- 
ceivably horrible  weapons  which  shake  up  the  time  stream  will 
be  set  off,  bringing  about  the  "Armageddon  described  in  the 
Revelations  of  John."  Two,  that  cities  will  be  tied  by  electro- 
magnetic energy,  creating  a  "primitive  nervous  system"  and  rais- 
ing the  level  of  the  collective  unconscious.  Three,  that  all  people 
will  take  their  fates  into  their  own  hands  and  utterly  change  the 
world,  becoming  one  great  body  with  eight  billion  hands.  Bear- 
don ended  by  saying  that  if  he  had  10  million  dollars  and  the 
right  eight  people,  he  could  bring  about  scenario  number  three 
in  two  years. 

As  Beardon  concluded,  Barbara  Marx  Hubbard,  the  Futures 
Network  president,  stood  up,  leaned  to  the  microphone,  and 
said,  "This  is  too  exciting  to  say  sitting  down."  Hubbard,  an 
energetic  woman  with  short,  ash-grey  hair,  proceeded  to  describe 
a  "fundamental  experience"  that  she  had  had  one  day  in  1966 


binds  the  celluloses  together. 

Products  differ  depending  on  the 
process.  For  instance,  a  new  tech- 
nique developed  by  Biological  En- 
ergy Corporation,  a  Philadelphia- 
based  consortium,  turns  hemicel- 
lulose  into  fermentable  sugars  and 
breaks  lignin's  three-dimensional 
structure,  leaving  freed  cellulose 
fibers  almost  intact.  Such  cellulose 
can  be  sold  as  high-quality  pulp  for 
paper  manufacture.  Other  meth- 
ods leave  the  cellulose  in  bad  shape, 
but  allow  lignin  to  be  extracted  in- 
tact: a  method  akin  to  that  used  in 
the  production  of  Masonite  board 
explodes  wood  chips  by  high-pres- 
sure steam.  The  chips  are  then  en- 
zymaticaliy  broken  down  into  a 
sugar-rich  syrup  which  can  be  fed 
to  cattle;  and  into  a  lignin  residue. 
Lignin,  it  has  been  discovered,  is 
a  cheap  substitute  for  the  chemical 
phenol,  used  in  wood  glues.  Phenol 
recently  sold  for  35  or  36  cents  per 
pound;  lignin,  selling  for  23  or  24 
cents,  would  cost  7  or  8  cents  to 
produce,  says  Bungay. 

There  are  problems,  of  course. 
Enzymes  for  breaking  down  cel- 
lulose are  expensive,  making  en- 
zymatic refining  only  marginally 
economical  at  present.  And  when 
solvents  are  used  there  is  an  ab- 
sorption problem:  heating  or 
washing  pulpy  chemical  soups  to 
recover  expensive  solvents  adds  to 


production  costs.  But,  says  Bun- 
gay, solutions  to  these  problems  are 
near.  New  biological  techniques  are 
bringing  down  the  price  of  en- 
zymes, and  when  oil  prices  rise 
again,  biomass  conversion  will 
probably  be  profitable. 

On  the  pollution  front,  biomass 
conversion  looks  good.  Most  sys- 
tems are  closed,  meaning  very  lit- 
tle waste  is  emitted,  and  there  are 
few  by-products,  since  a  large  per- 
centage of  the  initial  biomass  feed- 
stock is  converted  into  the  end 
products.  Some  of  the  end  prod- 
ucts could  be  burned  to  fuel  the 
factory  itself. 

Bungay  believes  the  technology 
will  be  beneficial  to  other  branches 
of  the  chemical  industry  as  well. 
Coupled  with  the  pine  chemicals 
industry,  high-pressure  steam  ex- 
plosion might  produce  cheaper  and 
more  homogeneous  turpentines  and 
resins,  as  well  as  saleable  cellulose. 
But  Bungay  is  pessimistic  about  bi- 
omass ever  supplanting  fossil  fuels. 
"It  just  doesn't  make  sense,"  he 
says,  "to  build  a  fancy  modern  plant 
that  starts  with  a  feedstock  and 
makes  a  feedstock.  The  profit  on 
that  kind  of  venture  is  bound  to  be 
slim.  Biomass  has  a  much  better 
chance  of  competing  with  the  pe- 
troleum industry,  which  refines 
about  7  percent  of  its  stocks  into 
chemicals."  — GM 


while  walking  on  a  road  in  Lakeville,  Connecticut.  Her  voice 
wobbled  with  excitement  as  she  talked. 

She  had  been  reading  Reinhold  Niebuhr  on  community.  Nie- 
buhr  had  quoted  the  Christian  apostle  Paul,  who  said,  "All  men 
are  members  of  one  body."  Hubbard  had  gone  for  a  walk  and 
as  she  reflected  on  Paul's  idea,  she  suddenly  rose  out  of  herself 
and  saw  the  Earth  as  Gaia,  who  was  gasping  for  breath.  Hubbard 
felt  as  if  she  were  a  cell  in  the  body  of  earth.  Then  she  felt  the 
body  reaching  into  outer  space,  and  "with  that  common  focus, 
the  entire  world  began  to  link  together  in  total  joy  and  empathy. 
It  was  an  ecstatic  cosmic  event.  I  heard  the  statement,  'Our  story 
is  a  birth,'  and  then  there  was  what  I  call  a  planetary  smile.  I 
was  bathed  with  divine  light  and  surrounded  by  love."  Hubbard 
then  went  out  into  space  and  experienced  the  Big  Bang,  the 
formation  of  the  universe,  and  the  development  of  organisms 
from  single  cells  to  multiple-celled  beings.  Finally,  she  became 
"a  little  stick  figure  again,  walking  down  a  road  in  Lakeville, 
Connecticut."  Hubbard  said  she  realized  then  that  the  people  of 
the  earth  had  the  option  of  Armageddon  or  the  planetary  smile. 

A  British  fellow  stood  and  asked  Hubbard  if  music  had  been 
connected  with  her  vision,  because  he  thought  music  was  integral 
to  universal  harmony. 

"Yes!"  said  Hubbard.  There  had  been  tones  which  were  dis- 
harmonious, then  gradually  merged  into  harmony.  "Why  don't 
we  try  this?  Why  doesn't  everyone  here  make  their  tone,  and 
we'll  see  if  they  become  harmonious?  I  don't  have  a  strong  voice, 
but  I'll  begin."  Hubbard  made  her  tone  into  the  microphone, 
something  akin  to  A-flat  above  middle  C,  and  a  sizable  portion 
of  the  audience  made  their  tones,  and  lo  and  behold,  the  tones 
began  to  shift  before  our  very  ears.  A  bearded  man  rolled  his 
eyes  at  me,  and  we  both  pushed  our  way  toward  the  exit. 

Later,  a  75-year-old  man  from  Port  Jefferson,  Washington 
asked  me  if  I'd  been  to  the  mind-to-mind  session.  I  said  I  had. 
"Some  of  that  stuff  was  mind-boggling,  wasn't  it?"  he  said.  "It's 
a  good  thing  we  have  you  people  [the  press]  to  wade  through 
this  stuff  for  us,  because  it's  just  mind-boggling." 

I  wouldn't  have  said  it  was  that.  What  I  would  have  said  is 
that  it  was  religious.  Eagerness  to  believe  had  been  almost  palp- 
able in  that  ballroom.  What  was  going  on  there  had  little  to  do 
with  analysis,  much  to  do  with  faith. 

^^^^•s  futurists  talked  about  reassessment,  reevaluation, 
^L  reinvention,  I  still  wasn't  sure  what  values  were  to  be 
/  ^  embraced  when  the  old  were  abandoned.  Several  com- 
JL  JL  mon  threads  did  run  through  discussions:  that  it  was 
necessary  to  have  a  global  perspective ;  that  the  values  of  Western 
capitalism  and  Eastern  statism  which  permeate  the  world  are  the 
source  of  major  problems;  that  it  is  necessary  to  have  an  eco- 
logical point  of  view;  that  the  new  communications  technology 
can  help  bridge  the  gap  between  the  haves  and  have-nots. 

Fritjof  Capra,  author  of  The  Tao  of  Physics  and  (more  re- 
cently) The  Turning  Point:  Science,  Society,  and  the  Rising  Cul- 
ture, spoke  about  the  "crisis  of  the  Northern  hemisphere."  A 
physicist  at  the  Lawrence  Berkeley  Laboratory  of  the  University 
of  California,  Capra  argued  that  the  mechanistic  Newtonian- 
Cartesian  model  of  the  universe,  which  constitutes  the  basis  of 
most  people's  current  world  view,  is  outdated.  Its  "reductionist 
tendencies"  have  led  to  industrial  expansion  and  massive  ex- 
ploitation, he  said.  "We  have  overshot  the  mark  with  technology. 
We  need,  now,  to  shift  to  a  new  paradigm,  a  holistic  perspective 
that  will  allow  us  to  deal  with  complex,  inter-connected  problems 
in  a  non-linear  fashion." 
Abdul  Aziz  Said,  professor  of  international  development  at 


The  Future  of/ 
IN  Literature 


^^"iteracy,  not  the  Atom,  was 
I  humankinds  most  traumatic 
JL^ experience  with  a  technol- 
ogy. After  the  Greeks  had  alpha- 
betized their  speech,  apparently  in 
quest  of  a  way  to  keep  bureaucrats' 
records,  what  streamed  from  living 
mouths  got  routinely  analyzed  into 
packets  called  "words,"  thought  of 
as  "out  there"  in  space,  with  con- 
sequences so  disruptive  to  the  hu- 
man psyche  that  only  years  of  ex- 
pensive education  can  adjust  them. 
Political  Science,  for  instance,  is  a 
remedial  course  for  people  who 
would  otherwise  let  their  literacy 
persuade  them  that  "Democracy" 
exists  in  the  sense  that  "pigs"  do. 


Like  the  Six  Million  Dollar  Man. 
It  goes  without  saying,  we  benefit. 
If  you'd  had  hydraulic  transistor- 
ized mcga-musclcs  implanted, 
would  you  want  to  go  back  to  the 
kind  that  have  spasms  and  run  on 
Wheatics'.'  No  more  docs  anyone 
yearn  for  the  blessings  of  illiteracy, 
though  Homer  seems  to  have 
thrived  before  the  alphabet.  But 
wed  not  know  of  Homer  save  for 
the  alphabet?  True;  and  what  we 
know  IS  not  Homer,  no.  but  his 
alphabetized  simulacrum  Many 
times  over,  down  the  ages,  six  mil- 
lion dollars  have  been  re-cxpcndcd 
to  preserve  his  encoded  traces:  think 
of  papcrmakcrs.  scribes,  type  de- 
signers, printing  presses,  reference 
libraries,  lexicons,  chairs  of 
"Greek":  and  my  cx-collcaguc  Don 


Howard  would  have  me  mention 
eyeglasses,  things  unneeded  save 
by  the  literate.  As  our  earliest  bard. 
Homer  is  our  six  billion  dollar  man, 
the  most  expensive  reputation  we 
have  ever  agreed  to  cherish.  If  we 
think  him  worth  the  expense,  then 
of  course  we  are  right. 

We  exist,  in  short,  in  the  future 
of  literacy,  a  future  that  has  been 
developing  since  about  the  8th  cen- 
tury B.C.  Literacy,  being  a  tech- 
nology, welcomes  other  technolo- 
gies: in  the  15th  century  Gu- 
tenberg's, in  the  19th  Mergenthal- 
er's,  today  IBM's.  If  I  type  these 
lines  on  a  computer,  that  is  not 
strange.  The  book  has  no  rebuke 
for  ubiquitous,  facile,  machine-en- 
abled production;  the  book  may 
have  been  the  first  mass-produced 
article  after  the  brick.  (A  similarity 
ol  shape  has  been  remarked  on.) 
Keeping  James  Joyce  somewhat 
extravagantly  alive  was  part  of  the 
long  effort  to  preserve  Homer.  That 
task  was  shouldered  by  an  English 
Quaker  lady  named  Harriet 
Weaver.  She  felt  guilty  about  her 
inherited  means,  and  guilt  has  its 
ecological  niche,  as  has  literacy. 
External  to  its  provender  as  the  il- 
literate  imagination  can  never  be. 
the  literate  imagination  surrounds, 
cannibalizes,  rethinks.  Metempsy- 
chosis, that  is  its  normal  feat;  illit- 
eracy only  cherishes  and  repeats. 
No  bookless  bard  would  have  dared 
tio  to  Homer's  tale  what  Joyce  did. 
lest  attempting  it  he'd  wipe  out  the 
tale  he  started  from.  But  Joyce  was 
the  supremely  literate  man  of  our 
age;  for  his  like.  T.S.  Eliot  thought, 
vou'd  seek  back  as  far  as  Milton. 
So  it  came  about  that  the  Odyssey 
relives  in  Ulysses,  itself  unre- 
placed,  with  among  other  odd  con- 
sequences this,  that  students  have 
been  spurred  by  Ulysses  to  want  to 
learn  some  Greek.  (And  Joyce 
could  not  read  Homer  in  Cireek.) 
He  was  totally  unpredictable, 
which  helps  show  why  the  future 
is.  We  exist  in  the  spaces  between 
such  events:  events  in  a  continuum 
that  extends  from  our  first  abced- 
minded*  forefathers  and  will  not 
terminate  on  account  of  new  fash- 
ions in  hardware  because  its  habit 
of  externalizing  what  we  are  think- 
ing is  the  software  on  which  they 
thrive. 

Hugh  Kcnner, 
Professor  of  English 
Johns  Hopkins  University 


Not  a  lypo.  Sec  Finnefiain  Wake 


American  University,  added  that  development  is  different  from 
modernization.  Modernization  provides  technology;  develop- 
ment, on  the  other  hand,  is  an  open-ended  process  of  individual 
and  social  discovery.  "The  Saudis,"  said  Said,  "are  an  obscene 
travesty  of  Islam,  the  way  they  twist  society  but  of  shape  to 
accommodate  technology."  From  Sufi  teachings  one  learns,  he 
said,  that  events  do  not  happen,  but  are  discovered. 

Capra  and  Said  echoed  many  speakers.  On  the  subject  of 
ecological  perspective,  Russell  Peterson  had  said,  "We  have  to 
begin  to  respect  our  life-support  system.  The  thought  that  man 
doesn't  have  to  worry  about  the  air  he  breathes,  the  water  he 
drinks,  and  the  earth  he  gets  food  from  is  utter  folly."  And 
Rashmi  Mayur  insisted  that  the  global  diseases  can  only  be  erad- 
icated in  a  moral,  ethical  atmosphere  that  takes  into  account 
environment.  "We  are  living  on  a  planet  totally  interdependent 
and  fragile.  Its  maintenance  now  depends  on  us.  Since  there  are 
one  thousand  times  more  of  us  than  there  were  a  hundred  years 
ago,  our  responsibility  is  one  thousand  times  as  great." 

^^^^^■ayur.  wherever  I  heard  him  speak,  was  a  voice  of 

M  cogency  and  clarity.  And  he  is  a  difficult  person  to 
catch  up  with.  He  moved  about  the  halls  like  an  ex- 
cited atom. 

I  was  finally  able  to  arrange  to  see  him,  though,  after  he  had 
done  a  radio  interview.  Mayur  shook  my  hand  warmly,  even 
though  we  had  shaken  hands  four  times  in  the  previous  half  hour, 
and  we  gravitated  toward  a  sofa  in  the  hall.  I  asked  him  what 
he  thought  of  the  conference,  and  whether  he  had  noticed  how 
few  Third  Worlders  were  present.  "Oh  yes,"  he  replied.  "What 
do  I  think  of  the  conference?  I  think  Americans  are  very  myopic 
and  carried  away  by  technology  which  they  think  will  bring  them 
to  Shangri-la.  They  tend  to  miss  two  important  things. 

"First,  the  real  job  of  information  technology  is  providing 
proper  information.  What  is  going  to  be  put  into  the  system? 
That  depends  on  the  brains  using  it.  I  would  say  right  now  there 
is  information  pollution,  because  people  are  using  these  systems 
unwisely.  Second,  I  think  Americans  don't  realize  that  technol- 
ogy is  in  the  hands  of  the  few,  not  the  many.  The  globe  is  starved 
of  information  and  technology,  and  we  are  seeing  the  widening 
of  the  gap  between  information  poor  and  information  rich.  Three 
billion  people  in  the  world  have  no  access  at  all  to  this  type  of 
technology.  They  do  not  even  have  access  to  TV  sets." 

Does  Mayur  mean  that  the  Third  World  doesn't  need  the 
technology?  "No,"  he  said,  "I  am  simply  challenging  that  the 
medium  is  the  message.  The  Third  World  needs  the  message, 
and  it  is  media-starved,  but  it  is  only  the  message  that  validates 
the  technological  medium,  not  the  other  way  around." 

In  the  Third  World  right  now.  said  Mayur.  technology  is  used 
only  by  the  bureaucracy,  the  elite.  They  use  communications 
technology  to  perpetuate  their  power.  "They  do  not  let  people 
know  the  truth,  and  they  keep  their  image  before  the  public 
constantly."  What  Mayur  and  others  are  working  for  is  the  dis- 
semination of  information  and  technology  to  the  common  man, 
and  thus,  they  hope,  the  dissemination  of  power.  "We  want  the 
whole  world  to  have  access  to  technology,  and  we  want  the  planet 
to  be  united." 

What  if  those  with  power  try  to  resist  democratization?  "There 
arc  too  many  disenfranchised  people,"  answered  Mayur  simply. 
"You  cannot  put  the  lid  on  past  a  certain  point.  It  will  explode." 
He  warned,  "If  people  in  the  U.S.  do  not  recognize  the  rest  of 
the  world,  this  great  air-conditioned  boat  will  sink  in  the  sea  of 
the  world's  poverty.  We  must  join  with  people  to  bring  about  a 
better  world.  I  assure  you,  we  all  have  the  same  destiny." 


XVI    ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


WPI  ClASS  NOTES 


WPI  Alumni  Association 

President,  Peter  H.  Horstmann.  "55 
Senior  Vice  President, 

Harry  W,  Tenney.  Jr.,  '56 
Vice  President, 

Donald  E.  Ross,  "54 
Secretary-Treasurer, 

Stephen  J.  Hebert,  "66 
Past  President,  John  H.  McCabe,  "68 

Executive  Committee 
members-at-large 

Henry  P.  Allessio,  '61;  Philip  B.  Ryan,  '65; 
John  M.  McHugh,  "56;  Anson  C.  Fyler,  '45. 

Fund  Board 

Henry  Styskal,  Jr.,  "50,  chair;  Richard  B.  Ken- 
nedy, "65,  vice  chair;  Gerald  Finkle,  "57;  Allen 
H.  Levesque,  '59;  Philip  H.  Puddington,  '59; 
Richard  A.  Davis,  '53;  C.  John  Lindegren,  '39; 
John  M.  Tracv.  "52. 


1914 


Chester  Inman's  family  gave  him  a  90th-birth- 
day  party  at  his  camp  in  Princeton,  MA,  last 
summer.  He  reports  that  37  of  40  family  mem- 
bers attended. 


1922 


"Squirm"  Colesworthy  writes  that  en  route  to 
his  60th  WPI  reunion  last  spring,  he  became 
ill  in  Pennsylvania  and  had  to  stay  in  a  hospital 
in  Chambersburg  for  three  weeks.  He  says  he 
is  now  pretty  well  recovered. 


1923 


Reunion 


June  2-5,  1983 


1926 

Last  winter,  Phil  Delphos,  while  vacationing  in 
Green  Valley,  AZ,  was  surprised  to  discover 
three  WPI  alumni  living  there:  Randy  Saxton, 
Fran  Whelan  and  Bob  Johnson,  '27.  The  group 
got  together  in  February  and  held  the  "first 
alumni  chapter  meeting""  at  a  famous  watering 
hole  in  Amado. 


1927 


Recently,  Louise  and  Ted  Lewis  of  New  Hamp- 
shire visited  the  Russ  Whittemores  in  San  Diego, 
CA.  Russ  recalls  that  in  1926,  he  and  Ted,  who 
was  captain,  were  the  only  two  seniors  to  earn 
letters  on  the  WPI  football  team.  The  former 
teammates  had  not  seen  each  other  since  their 
50th  reunion  in  1977. 

Charles  Moore  continues  swimming  in 
Cleveland's  Cudell  Recreation  Center  pool  and 
has  received  a  Red  Cross  certificate  for  swim- 
ming 500  miles  between  1971  and  1982. 


1928 


Reunion 


June  2-5,  1983 


1930 

Ed  Delano  placed  eighth  in  the  75-year-plus 
class  in  the  Veterans  World  Cup  bicycle  races 
held  in  St.  Johann  in  the  Tirol,  Austria,  last 
summer.  Says  Ed,  "There  were  17  riders  rep- 
resenting every  nation  in  Western  Europe  [in 
his  category]  and  I  was  the  only  American  par- 
ticipating. Many  were  retired  pros,  who  are  still 
fast.  I  was  happy  to  come  in  eighth."  Earlier, 
Ed  had  competed  in  various  races  in  Hartberg, 
Austria. 


1932 


William  Reardon  was  named  board  chairman 
for  his  fourth  one-year  term  by  the  Ellis  Hos- 
pital Board  of  Trustees  in  Schenectady,  NY, 
in  June.  He  has  been  a  board  member  since 
1970.  A  retired  manager  of  engineering  for  the 
Real  Estate  and  Construction  Operation  of  GE, 
he  is  a  member  of  the  Senior  Elfun  Society. 
He  was  presented  with  the  Senior  Territorial 
Award  for  the  Schenectady  area  in  1982. 


1933 


Reunion 


June  2-5,  1983 


1935 

Lester  Libby  continues  as  a  consultant  in  R.F. 
Design.  "Planning  to  attend  the  50th  reunion." 


1936 


Retired  Col.  Perry  Clark,  who  planned  to  spend 
the  winter  in  St.  Croix,  Virgin  Islands,  is  active 
with  church  and  neighborhood  groups  at  his 
home  in  Columbia,  SC.  He  also  does  volunteer 
work  at  Ft.  Jackson  in  the  Check  Control  Pro- 
gram, which  tries  to  curtail  check  bouncing  in 
the  Army  by  cutting  check-cashing  privileges 
of  offenders  and  running  banking  system  in- 
formation programs. 

Earl  Curtis  and  his  wife,  Esther,  write  they 
are  "into  bus  trips."  Recently  they  went  by  bus 
to  Quebec,  the  World's  Fair  and  Florida.  Earl 
says  he  picked  lots  of  strawberries,  black  rasp- 
berries, blackberries  and  vegetables  in  his  gar- 
den last  summer. 

The  Wally  Dahlstroms,  after  traveling  to 
Aruba  last  February,  joined  WPI  alumni  for 
the  Alaska  trip  in  August.  Wally,  a  class  agent, 
is  past  president  of  the  Tech  Old-Timers  and 
an  officer  in  the  Retired  Men's  Club  of  Green- 
dale  in  Worcester. 

Bob  Fowler  also  made  the  alumni  Alaska 
trip.  Because  of  preparations  for  a  big  family 
reunion  in  August,  he  was  unable  to  serve  a 
fifth  season  as  an  interpreter  at  Old  Sturbridge 
Village.  He  is  secretary  and  treasurer  of  the 
Tech  Old-Timers. 

During  the  winter  months,  Tom  Frary  works 
part  time  as  a  warehouse  manager  for  a  chain 
of  eight  retail  stores.  He  is  treasurer  of  the 
Frary  Family  Association  and  spends  June 
through  October  "between  Marblehead  and 
Martha's  Vineyard,  MA,  and  Peaks  Island, 
ME." 

Harold  Henrickson,  who  lives  at  the  62-acre 
family  homestead  in  Holden,  also  maintains  a 
second  home  (65  acres)  in  Stratton,  VT.  He 
enjoys  outdoor  activities  such  as  hiking,  golf- 
ing, fishing,  hunting,  cutting  firewood  and  gar- 
dening. He  spends  part  of  each  winter  in  Flor- 
ida. 

Brewster  Howard  continues  as  vice  president 
of  manufacturing  at  American  Saw  &  Mfg.  Co., 
East  Longmeadow,  MA.  He  and  his  wife, 
Madeline,  like  to  play  tennis  in  Florida  during 
the  winter.  In  summer  he  commutes  to  his  va- 
cation house  on  South  Pond  in  Brookfield, 
"where  we  enjoy  watching  our  ten  grandchil- 
dren learn  to  swim  and  water  ski." 

Nat  Levine  writes  that  he  and  Roslyn  re- 
cently retired  and  are  now  busy  with  senior 
citizen  activities  and  travel  plans.  His  career 
was  primarily  spent  in  government  service  as 
a  civil  engineer  with  the  Naval  Facilities  En- 
gineering Command. 

After  retiring  from  Brown  Boveri  Turbo- 
machinery  in  1980,  Ben  Smith  worked  for  sev- 
eral more  months  for  the  company,  cataloging 
44  years  of  design-engineering  work.  At  home 


FEBRUARY  1983 


29 


Ray  Moeller: 

GE's  Former  Magic  Man 

He  had  absolutely  no  intention  of  taking 
a  job  with  General  Electric,  but  at  the 
insistance  of  the  Dean.  Ray  Moeller.  "35. 
reluctantly  took  part  in  a  GE  inter\ie\v 
during  his  senior  year  at  WPI.  "The  end 
result."  says  .Moeller.  who  is  now  retired, 
"was  31  years  of  the  most  thoroughly  en- 
joyable employment  possible. "" 

Ray.  GE  discovered,  excelled  in  the  area 
of  "special  assignments. ""  That  meant  he 
was  given  jobs  which  nobody  had  held 
and  which  nobody  held  after  him.  "A 
wonderful  arrangement.  .My  performance 
could  never  be  compared  with  that  of  any- 
one else!" 

On  one  special  assignment.  Ray  and 
five  other  GE  employees  were  asked  to 
predict  the  future  growth  of  everything 
electronic  in  nature — both  inside  and  out- 
side the  company — and  to  report  their 
findings.  They  set  up  office  in  New  York 
City  and  commuted  weekly  to  and  from 
their  homes  by  air.  living  in  a  different 
hotel  each  week.  At  year's  end.  they  took 
eight  hours  to  present  a  summary  of  their 
findings  to  GEs  top  management. 

When  GE  decided  to  use  Broadway  ac- 
tors and  actresses  in  a  nationwide  trav- 
eling road  show  to  teach  nontechnical  dis- 
tributors how  to  sell  technical  products  in 
an  easy-to-learn  fashion.  Ray  was  as- 
signed to  the  troupe.  He  wrote  his  own 
magician  and  \cntriloquist  acts  and  "felt 


Ray  Moeller  with  his  dummy.  "Hooker." 
flanked  by  an  actress  and  a  model  at  a 
Los  Angeles  show  in  1953. 

pretty  foolish  sitting  in  a  hotel  room  prac- 
ticing with  a  dummy  on  my  knee." 

On  one  of  his  vacations,  he  went  on  his 
own  "special  assignment."  an  18-month 
leave  to  sail  around  the  world  aboard  the 
Brigantine  Yankee. 

During  his  entire  career.  Ray.  who  is 
still  a  bachelor,  lived  in  a  country  club. 
where  a  party  was  usually  in  progress  and 
where  his  living  quarters  were  taken  care 
of  by  maids.  He  has  never  regretted  tak- 
ing that  loniz-aiio  job  intcr\iew  with  GE. 


he  tore  down  a  carriage  house  and  built  a  two- 
car  garage.  Other  interests  include  church  work. 
Scouting,  cross-country  skiing  and  leading  "great 
books"  discussions  for  young  people.  Recently 
he  spent  six  weeks  in  Monterrey.  Mexico,  on 
assignment  from  International  Executive  Serv- 
ice Corps,  helping  a  large  electric  repair  shop 
develop  capability  to  rewind  large  motors  and 
generators.  "I.E.S.C.  is  sort  of  an  industry  ver- 
sion of  the  Peace  Corps." 

Sted  Smith  continues  in  active  practice  in 
OB-Ci\'N  m  Salisbury.  MD.  In  his  free  time 
he  cruises  and  races  his  sailboat  on  the  Ches- 
apeake Bay. 

HarnUt  /■.  Hvnrukson.  (lass  Secrciurx 


1937 


Fran  Harvey  of  Harvey  and  Tracy  Associates. 
Worcester,  was  recently  elected  a  new  member 
by  the  corporators  of  May  State  Savings  Bank. 
He  IS  ;i  WPI  trustee  emeritus. 

David  Fi-mia,  'K.V  .i  WPI  physics  major  and 
member  ol  Skull  and  Sigma  Phi  Fipsilon.  is  the 
current  recipient  of  the  11  Richard  lownslev 
Fund  Scholarship  According  to  Dick  Lyman, 
one  of  the  classmates  who  helped  establish  the 
Fund,  the  scholarship  was  started  as  a  class 
memorial  (4(lih  class  reunion  gill)  to  Richard 
Townsley,  who  died  in  Europe  during  World 


War  II.  Townsley  won  a  Yankee  Ingenuity 
Scholarship  as  a  WPI  undergraduate.  "I  still 
visit  his  brothers  at  the  family  dairy  and  apple 
farm  in  Ashfield.  MA."  says  Lyman. 

John  Willard  serves  as  secretary  counsel  for 
Harper  Co.  in  East  Hartford.  CT. 


1938 


Reunion 


June  2-5,  1983 


Bob  Abbe  writes  to  say  that  he  recently  assisted 
in  the  management  of  a  golf  course.  In  addi- 
tion. Abbe  holds  the  position  of  treasurer  of 
his  borough. 

Randy  Buck,  who  is  a  past  president  of  his 
local  Rotary  Club,  has  also  been  active  in  work 
with  his  church  and  with  a  local  historical  so- 
ciety. Buck  still  accepts  consulting  assignments 
in  fickis  relating  to  oil  and  gas  reserves. 

Hill  Holcomh's  company.  Homaco.  Inc..  is 
flourishing.  C  urrently.  the  company  produces 
what  is  known  as  an  automatic  call  distribu- 
ter— it's  the  device  that  airlines  use  to  tell  you 
to  hold  the  line  until  an  agent  is  available. 

Last  September.  Mary  and  Murray  Wilson 
celebrated  their  4()th  wedding  anniversary.  Be- 
fore his  retirement.  Wilson  worked  as  a  metal- 
lurgist, spending  .^K  years  at  Revere  Copper  & 
Brass  in  Rome,  N.Y. 


1939 


Walter  .A.bel  has  been  named  a  senior  fellow  in 
technology  at  Emhart  Corporation.  In  the  newly 
created  position,  he  will  advise  the  vice  pres- 
ident of  technology  on  technical  strategy  and 
organization.  Also,  he  will  be  the  principal  li- 
aison with  such  associations  as  Computer  Aided 
Manufacturing-International  and  the  Indus- 
trial Research  Institute,  and  with  various 
universities.  With  the  firm  (formerly  USM 
Corp. )  for  43  years.  Abel  was  named  vice  pres- 
ident of  research  in  1969  and  vice  president  of 
R&D  in  1979.  He  serves  on  the  board  of  ad- 
\isors  in  the  department  of  management  at  WTI. 

John  Hughes,  who  formerly  lived  in  Hono- 
lulu. HI.  has  moved  to  Tucson.  AZ. 

Active  with  the  ASME  on  local,  regional  and 
national  levels  for  3.s  years.  Dick  Wilson  has 
also  served  the  California  Society  of  Profes- 
sional Engineers  as  president  of  the  Long  Beach 
Chapter  0981-1982).  Other  memberships  in- 
clude the  American  Institute  of  Aeronautics 
and  Astronautics  and  the  American  Associa- 
tion for  Advancement  of  Science. 


1943 


Reunion 


June  2-5,  1983 


1946 

Judge  Ernest  Hayeck  of  Worcester  Central  Dis- 
trict Court  has  been  elected  chairman  of  the 
National  Conference  of  Special  Court  Judges 
for  the  judicial-administration  division  of  the 
American  Bar  Association.  He  is  also  chair- 
man of  the  group's  education  committee.  Judge 
Hayeck  enjoys  reading  and  has  a  working 
knowledge  of  Arabic.  Hebrew.  Latin,  Greek. 
French.  German,  Italian  and  Spanish.  He  has 
fished  for  marlin  in  Hawaii  and  is  currently 
planning  a  salmon  fishing  trip  in  the  Pacific 
Northwest. 

Fred  Kull  has  been  named  chairman  of  the 
American  Railway  Engineering  Association 
Committee  9.  Highway  Railway  Programs.  He 
was  slated  to  be  a  moderator  at  the  1982  Na- 
tional Railroad  Highway  Grade  Crossing  Con- 
ference scheduled  for  late  summer  in  Kansas 
City. 

Albert  Rawdon,  Jr.,  was  recently  nameii  a 
fellow  of  the  American  Society  of  Mechanical 
Engineers.  He  has  worked  in  the  power  in- 
dustry for  over  2.'i  years,  managing  several  RA:I) 
projects  to  improve  coordinating  efficiency, 
boiler  design  and  the  reduction  of  controlled 
stack  emissions.  He  was  responsible  for  the 
layout  and  construction  of  a  new  R&D  facility 
at  Riley  Stoker,  where  he  currently  reports  to 
the  vice  president  of  engineering.  He  has  served 
as  a  chairman  of  an  ASME  subcomnuttee  and 
as  treasurer  of  the  Worcester  section.  I  le  holds 
six  patents  and  is  listed  in  Who's  W.h<). 


1947 


Robert  Be|;ley  holds  the  position  of  advisory 
engineer  at  IBM  in  Kingston,  NY.  He  is  re- 


30        WPI   JOURNAL 


sponsible  for  product  and  development  pro- 
gram engineering  for  display  terminals.  He  has 
won  many  sailing  trophies,  including  the  East- 
ern (U.S.)  Enterprise  Association  champion- 
ship award. 

Allan  Glazer's  firm,  Honematic  Machine 
Corporation.  Boylston,  MA,  manufactures 
special  cylinders.  Says  Glazer,  "The  lunar 
module  used  them  for  legs.  Our  biggest  claim 
to  fame!" 

John  Hambor  holds  numerous  patents  for 
transistors,  rectifiers  and  semiconductor  net- 
works. He  is  president  and  owner  of  HV  Com- 
ponent Associates,  Howell,  NJ.  In  spite  of  a 
busy  schedule,  he  tries  to  read  a  minimum  of 
75  books  a  year. 

Harry  Hoffee  reports  that  he  is  now  semi- 
retired  as  a  professor  emeritus  of  electrical  en- 
gineering at  Ohio  University  in  Athens.  "I  teach 
only  in  the  fall,  so  we've  spent  the  last  three 
winters  in  Tucson,  AZ." 

Bob  Mark,  still  with  GE  after  35  years  of 
service,  manages  non-union  employee  rela- 
tions for  the  firm  in  Fairfield,  CT.  He  is  a 
founding  board  member  of  the  National  As- 
sociation of  Manufacturers'  Council  on  Union 
Free  Environment,  which  encourages  progres- 
sive employee  relations  by  employers. 

Ed  Supple,  a  special  agent  for  Prudential  In- 
surance Company,  Newton  Lower  Falls,  MA, 
recently  was  named  his  agency's  leading  sales- 
man. He  was  also  a  top  salesman  nationally  for 
Prudential,  winning  a  presidential  citation. 

Ken  Truesdell  holds  the  post  of  vice  presi- 
dent at  Circuit  Equipment  Sales  Company  in 
Burlington,  MA.  He  has  been  a  volunteer 
member  of  the  Connecticut  Prison  Association 
for  15  years,  "trying  to  bring  something  of  the 
outside  life  to  those  in  maximum  security  who 
have  few  or  no  other  visitors." 


1948 


Reunion 


June  2-5,  1983 


1950 

Dr.  Herman  Nied  has  been  elected  treasurer 
of  the  Hudson-Mohawk  section  of  the  ASME 
for  1982-83.  A  registered  professional  engi- 
neer in  New  York  and  New  Jersey,  he  is  with 
the  GE  Corporate  Research  and  Development 
Center. 


1951 


Charles  Darrell  now  serves  as  a  senior  engineer 
at  General  Physics  Corp.,  Columbia,  MD.  He 
retired  from  the  Navy  last  July. 

Robert  Luce  is  employed  in  the  FiberGlass 
Division  of  Engineering  at  PPG  Industries  in 
Lexington,  NC. 


1952 


Last  summer,  during  a  memorable  round  of 
golf,  Chester  Inman,  Jr.,  made  a  hole-in-one 
on  a  par  three  hole.  To  prove  this  was  no  ac- 


cident, he  proceeded  to  shank  his  drive  on  the 
next  hole  into  the  same  cup  from  which  he  had 
just  taken  the  ball  after  his  hole-in-one.  Chet 
was  recently  promoted  to  director  of  facilities, 
administrative  headquarters,  at  Eastman  Ko- 
dak Co.  in  Rochester,  NY.  The  facilities  de- 
partment, which  employs  about  350  people,  is 
involved  with  design,  engineering,  mainte- 
nance, cleaning,  security,  safety  and  moving. 


1953 


Reunion 


June  2-5,  1983 


David  Beach,  manager  of  product  design  for 
Eastman  Kodak  Co.,  was  the  Johnson  Mem- 
orial Colloquium  speaker  at  WPI  in  October. 
He  spoke  on  "Design  and  Marketing  Consid- 
erations for  the  Instamatic  and  Kodak  Product 
Lines." 

Daniel  Hoch  is  currently  an  assistant  with 
branch  office  operations  at  IBM  in  Waltham, 
MA. 


1954 


Walter  Dziura  has  been  promoted  to  director 
of  engineering  research  and  design  at  Scovill 
Apparel  Fasteners  Group  in  'Watertown,  CT. 
He  joined  the  firm  in  1954  in  the  general  prod- 
ucts division.  The  certified  engineer  has  been 
chief  design  engineer  of  the  sewing  notions  di- 
vision and  has  managed  field-equipment  re- 
search and  development. 


1955 


Bell  of  Pennsylvania  recently  promoted  Brian 
Kelly  to  vice  president  of  the  marketing  de- 
partment. Now  based  in  Philadelphia,  he  had 
been  in  Pittsburgh  as  vice  president  of  cus- 
tomer service  for  the  state. 

WPI  Trustee  Robert  Stempel  spoke  on  "Au- 
tomotive Competition  and  the  Productivity 
Challenge"  in  the  second  annual  lecture  of 
Technology  and  the  Free  Enterprise  System  at 
WPI  in  October.  A  vice  president  of  General 
Motors  Corporation  since  1978,  he  is  general 
manager  of  the  Chevrolet  Motor  Division. 


1956 


Donald  Olsen  has  been  promoted  to  manager 
of  generation  projects  at  Northeast  Utilities 
(NU).  A  member  of  the  Electric  Power  Re- 
search Institute's  Air  Ouality  Program  Com- 
mittee, he  joined  NU  in  1968  as  a  production 
engineer  and  in  1978  was  named  supervisor  of 
generation  mechanical  engineering. 


1958 


Reunion 


June  2-5,  1983 


BORN:  to  Elisheva  and  Leo  Price  a  daughter, 
Shiry  Lee,  in  October  1981 .  In  June,  Price  joined 


the  HQ  VU  Corps  in  Stuttgart,  Germany,  where 
he  is  chief  engineer  for  plans  and  services.  Pre- 
viously, he  was  chief  geotechnic  engineer  for 
the  Corps  of  Engineers  in  the  planning,  design 
and  construction  of  two  major  airbases  for  the 
Israeli  Airbase  Program. 

Donald  Bean  has  been  named  director  of  sales 
and  marketing  at  Smith  Valve  Corp.  in  West- 
boro,  MA.  Previously,  he  was  vice  president 
and  general  manager  of  Kieley  and  Mueller, 
Inc.,  Middleton  (NY)  manufacturers  of  control 
valves.  He  also  had  product  and  sales  man- 
agement and  design  engineering  assignments 
with  Jamesbury  Corp.,  Worcester. 

David  Edfors,  a  project  engineer  for  Lane 
Construction  Corp.  of  Meriden,  CT,  has  re- 
cently been  concerned  with  the  building  of 
reinforced  earth-retaining  walls  for  the  final 
stretch  of  1-66  running  from  the  Washington, 
DC,  Capital  Beltway  east.  Experts  quoted  in 
the  magazine  ENR  estimated  that  using  the 
retaining  walls,  originally  suggested  by  Lane, 
saved  the  state  of  Virginia  about  $8  million  in 
construction  costs.  Dave  is  currently  project 
engineer  on  a  $64-million  project  with  Lane, 
building  the  western  approach  to  the  new  Fort 
McHenry  Tunnel  under  Baltimore  harbor. 


1959 


Wayne  Gass,  director  of  physical  facilities  and 
assistant  business  manager  at  Mount  Holyoke 
College,  has  been  advanced  to  business  man- 
ager. He  will  retain  the  title  and  responsibilities 
of  director  of  physical  facilities.  His  new  duties 
will  include  business  matters  and  budgeting. 
Gass  has  been  with  the  college  since  1962.  Pre- 
viously, he  earned  his  master's  degree  at  MIT 
and  his  MBA  at  UMass  and  worked  for  Turner 
Construction  Co. 


1960 


After  17  years  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp., 
Irwin  Jacobs  resigned  last  summer  as  vice  pres- 
ident of  the  company's  commercial  Original 
Equipment  Manufacturing  Group  in  Merri- 
mack, NH.  He  is  now  senior  vice  president  of 
marketing  and  sales  at  Data  Terminal  Systems, 
Inc.,  Maynard,  MA. 

Recently,  Paul  Jolicoeur  joined  Itek  Cor- 
poration's Graphic  Systems  &  Communica- 
tions Industries  as  vice  president  for  business 
planning  and  commercial  development  oper- 
ations. He  is  responsible  for  business  and  stra- 
tegic planning  activities  and  integrates  business 
and  product  planning  performed  in  five  oper- 
ating divisions  (involving  2,000  persons).  Ear- 
lier, he  was  with  Honeywell,  IBM,  Mohawk 
Data  Sciences  and  Nippon  Electric  Informa- 
tion Systems,  holding  assignments  throughout 
the  U.S.,  France  and  the  United  Kingdom. 

Arthur  LoVetere,  president  of  MacDermid, 
Incorporated,  Waterbury,  CT,  was  recently 
elected  chief  executive  officer.  He  has  served 
as  president  and  chief  operating  officer  since 
1977.  He  joined  the  company  in  1957  and  holds 
an  MBA  from  Dartmouth's  Tuck  School. 

Michael  O'Toole,  Jr.,  is  now  associate  di- 
rector of  the  Division  of  Solid  Waste  for  the 
New  York  State  Department  of  Environmental 
Conservation  in  Albany. 


FEBRUARY  1983        31 


1961 


Al  Sherman  was  a  coauthor  of  a  three-part  ar- 
ticle, "Comparison  of  direct  and  indirect  meth- 
ods of  measuring  arterial  blood  pressure."  Ap- 
pearing in  Medical  Instrumentation,  the  article 
was  named  the  best  paper  published  in  that 
journal  in  1981 .  Sherman  continues  at  Hewlett- 
Packard,  Waltham,  MA,  where  he  develops 
computer  systems  which  monitor  patients  in 
coronary  intensive  care  units.  He  received  his 
MS  from  WPI  in  October  of  1981,  "after  years 
of  procrastination." 

Paul  Sledzik  is  now  a  general  manager  for 
GE  in  Detroit.  His  son,  David,  is  a  freshman 
at  WPI. 


1962 


On  June  16th,  his  20th  wedding  anniversary, 
the  Santa  Clara  Chapter  of  the  American  In- 
stitute of  Plant  Engineers  honored  Art  Do- 
breski  as  its  "Plant  Engineer  of  the  Year."  (The 
largest  AIPE  chapter  in  the  U.S.,  it  has  more 
than  300  members.)  Art  and  his  wife,  Carole, 
have  three  children:  Maureen,  12:  Kathleen, 
16;  and  Michael,  18.  Continuing  with  Signetics, 
Sunnyvale,  Art  manages  corporate  facilities 
operations 


Ron  Gagne  recently  accepted  a  new  position 
with  GE"s  armament  and  electrical  systems  de- 
partment in  Burlington,  \T.  As  manager  of 
armament  systems  engineering,  he  is  respon- 
sible for  design,  development  and  production 
engineering  and  product  support  elements  for 
armament  systems  production  programs  within 
the  department.  The  division  makes  high-speed, 
multi-barrel  armament  systems  for  fixed  and 
rotary  wing  aircraft,  as  well  as  shipboard  de- 
fense systems.  Ron,  his  wife  and  four  children 
are  located  on  Mallets  Bay  on  Lake  Cham- 
plain. 

William  Krein,  controller  for  Zenith  Radio 
Corporation,  has  been  elected  vice  president. 
He  joined  Zenith  in  1980  as  controller,  follow- 
ing 14  years  with  GE.  He  has  an  MBA  from 
Babson. 


1963 


Reunion 


June  2-5  1983 


Dr.  Robert  Desmond  has  been  named  a  vice 
president  of  the  RIT  Research  Corp.,  a  wholly 
owned  subsidiary  of  Rochester  Institute  of 
Technology.  He  had  been  a  director  of  the  cor- 
poration's energy  division.  With  the  company 
for  two  years,  he  joined  RIT  in  1970,  was  named 
head  of  the  ME  department  in  1972  and  served 


The  Pied  Piper  of  Potomac 

The  Potomac  Almanac  of  Rockville,  MD, 
believes  that  any  man  who  gets  up  at  4:30 
a.m.  every  Thursday  morning  to  make 
breakfast  for  a  church  full  of  teenagers 
and  who  opens  his  own  house  to  100  young 
people  every  weekend  for  two  decades, 
deserves  special  recognition.  Last  June, 
the  newspaper  presented  Paul  Kokulis, 
'45,  with  its  first  Community  Service  Award. 

\yhy  does  the  successful  senior  partner 
of  the  Washington  law  firm  of  Cushman, 
Darby  &  Cushman.  a  devoted  husband 
and  father  of  four,  spend  so  much  time 
with  other  people's  children?  "It's  sim- 
ple," he  says.  "I  enjoy  them."  He  adds, 
"But,  I  must  admit  that  in  the  beginning, 
our  home  became  a  teen-age  open  house 
more  or  less  by  accident." 

In  the  early  196()s,  when  Kokulis  was 
new  to  the  Rockville  area  and  began 
teaching  Sunday  school  at  the  local  Pres- 
byterian Church,  his  pupils  started  drop- 
ping by  on  weekends.  They  usually  had 
no  money  to  spend  on  dates  and  liked 
being  in  a  home,  as  long  as  it  wasn't  theirs. 
"My  wife  and  I  called  our  place  the  house 
of  last  resort." 

The  Sunday  school  class  spread  the  good 
word  about  the  Kokulis  hospitality,  the 
impromptu  games  and  the  "brass  tacks" 
conversation.  The  weekend  gatherings 
grew. 

Says  a  neighbor,  who  characterizes  the 
Kokulis  get-togethers  as  very  quiet,  "Paul 
is  an  oasis.  He  provides  a  role  model  and 


Host  of  the  "House  of  Last  Resort" 

a  listening  ear.  We  all  try  to  live  up  to  his 
example." 

Over  the  years,  there  have  been  few 
problems  aside  from  a  broken  window  and 
an  accidental  hot-chocolate  spill  on  a 
brand-new  carpet.  (Not  a  bad  record, 
considering  that  six  active  Kokulis  "alum- 
ni" ended  up  playing  football  in  the  NFL!) 
In  spite  of  spills  and  general  wear  and 
tear,  Mrs.  Kokulis  enthusiastically  backs 
up  her  husband's  efforts. 

Paul  and  Carolyn  Kokulis  care  more 
about  the  quality  of  life  of  the  local  teen- 
agers than  about  the  lifespan  of  their  fur- 
niture. 


as  director  of  RITs  Institute  for  applied  En- 
ergy Studies  until  1980.  Formerlv.  he  taught  at 
WPI  and  Clarkson. 

Allen  Hoffman,  associate  professor  of  me- 
chanical engineering  at  WPI,  took  first  place 
in  the  "Over  40"  category  of  the  Hubbardston 
Field  Day  road  race  in  September.  Placing  ninth 
overall,  his  winning  time  was  28:54  for  the  5.2- 
mile  run. 

Francis  Kennedy,  Jr.,  was  coauthor  of  "Sin- 
gle-Pass Rub  Testing  of  Abradable  Seal  Ma- 
terials" in  the  September  issue  of  Lubrication 
Engineering.  Dr.  Kennedy  has  an  MS  from 
Stanford  University  and  a  PhD  from  RPI.  He 
carried  out  postdoctoral  research  in  tribology 
at  Polytechnic  Institute  of  Bucharest,  Ro- 
mania.'in  1973,  at  RPI  from  1973  to  1974  and 
at  NASA-Lewis  Research  Center  during  the 
summers  of  1977  and  1978.  Since  1974,  he  has 
been  at  Dartmouth  College,  teaching  and  su- 
pervising students  in  mechanical  engineering 
and  doing  research  in  solid  mechanics  and  tri- 
bology. 


1964 


Gary  Goshgarian  was  featured  in  an  Earth- 
watch  advertisement  appearing  in  the  Septem- 
ber 20th  issue  of  U.  S.  News  &  World  Report. 
Gary,  an  associate  professor  of  Enghsh  at 
Northeastern  University,  is  affiliated  with 
Earthwatch,  whose  members  support  research 
expeditions  in  the  sciences,  arts  and  humanities 
in  more  than  25  countries  worldwide.  On  one 
expedition,  Gary  used  his  amateur  diving  skills 
to  help  a  marine  archaelogist  discover  a  second 
century  B.C.  Roman  shipwreck  in  135  feet  of 
water  off  Majorca,  Spain. 

Thomas  McGee,  vice  president  of  Petroleum 
Meter  &  Pump  Co.,  Inc.,  was  installed  as  a 
director  of  the  Petroleum  Equipment  Institute 
at  its  32nd  annual  convention  in  New  Orleans, 
LA,  in  September.  He  is  president  of  the  Avon 
(CT)  Chamber  of  Commerce,  on  the  board  of 
the  Greater  Hartford  Chamber  of  Commerce 
and  on  the  advisory  board  of  the  Northwest 
Bank  for  Savings.  A  member  of  the  WPI  spe- 
cial gifts  committee,  he  is  also  past  president 
of  the  Avon  Jaycees  and  the  Farmington  Valley 
Arts  Center.  He  holds  an  MBA  from  Harvard. 

Facit/Dataroyal  of  Nashua,  NH,  has  ap- 
pointed Paul  Ramsden  vice  president  of  engi- 
neering. Previously,  he  was  a  project  manager 
at  Wang  Laboratories  and  had  held  posts  at 
SCM  Corp.,  Centronics  and  Sanders  Associ- 
ates. 


1965 


Brad  Barber  holds  the  post  of  adjunct  assistant 
professor  in  the  Division  of  Nuclear  Medicine 
at  the  University  of  Arizona  Health  Science 
Center  in  Tucson.  He  has  an  MS  and  a  PhD 
from  the  University  of  Arizona. 

Mort  Gutman  was  recently  named  director 
of  printer  marketing  for  Smith-Corona  in  New 
Canaan,  CT.  He  is  responsible  for  marketing 
the  firm's  newly  introduced  quality  printer  and 
for  providing  technical  direction  for  future 
products. 

Last  summer.  Waller  Hipp,  Jr.,  was  named 
manager  of  engineering  at  Green  Mountain 


32        WPI   JOURNAL 


Power  Corporation,  Montpelier,  VT.  In  his  new 
post,  he  oversees  the  engineering  department 
in  system  planning  and  the  design  and  engi- 
neering of  transmission  and  distribution  proj- 
ects. He  also  has  budgetary  responsibilities. 
Before  joining  the  company,  he  was  a  project 
engineer  for  CTM  Ltd.  in  Saudi  Arabia  and 
planned  an  electric  system  for  an  entire  com- 
munity. Earlier,  he  was  with  the  Concord  (NH) 
Electric  Co. 


1966 


MARRIED:  Lawrence  A.  Penoncello  and  Karen 
A.  Eseppi  in  Winsted,  CT,  on  June  18,  1982. 
Mrs.  Penoncello  graduated  from  Southern 
Connecticut  State  College  and  manages 
Sportsmen's  Paradise  II  in  Litchfield.  Larry  is 
manufacturing  manager  at  the  Broad  Street  plant 
of  the  Torrington  Company,  Torrington,  CT. 
He  has  an  MBA  from  the  University  of  Hart- 
ford. 

J.  William  Bowen  serves  as  president  of  Cash 
Flow  Organization,  Inc.,  New  York  City. 

Formerly  located  in  Buffalo,  Robert  Dolan 
recently  moved  to  Manchester,  NH,  where  he 
is  a  development  engineer  at  GTE  Sylvania. 

Dr.  Donald  Foley,  vice  president  of  PAR 
Technology  Corp. ,  has  been  promoted  to  man- 
ager of  the  government  systems  division.  He 
is  responsible  for  current  programs,  future  re- 
search, development  and  systems  implemen- 
tation contracts.  He  has  a  PhD  in  electrical  and 
computer  engineering  from  Syracuse  Univer- 
sity. The  Foleys  and  their  four  children  live  in 
Chnton,  NY. 

Michael  Salvini  is  plant  manager  for  Bedford 
Wire,  a  Division  of  Buell  Industries  in  Bedford 
Heights,  OH.  He  enjoys  golf,  antique  hunting 
and  his  1963  restored  Corvette.  He  belongs  to 
the  American  Society  of  Metals  and  the  Wire 
Association. 

Dave  Stone  still  works  for  Rohm  &  Haas  Co. 
and  is  now  based  in  the  Philadelphia  home  of- 
fice as  project  manager  in  a  new  plastics  prod- 
ucts group.  He  and  his  wife,  Bonnie,  have  two 
daughters,  Gina,  9,  and  Becky,  5.  Last  year, 
the  family  enjoyed  a  trip  to  the  Poconos. 

Gary  Dyckman,  Class  Secretary 


1967 


MARRIED:  Stephen  F.  Nasiatka,  Jr.,  and  Ju- 
dith G.  Brown  on  July  24,  1982,  in  Monson, 
MA.  She  graduated  from  Westfield  State  Col- 
lege. He  is  with  the  Connecticut  Department 
of  Transportation  in  Hartford. 

Robert  DeNigris  is  teaching  at  the  Harrow 
School  outside  of  London,  as  part  of  a  teacher 
exchange  program.  His  usual  post  is  that  of 
mathematics  instructor  and  coordinator  of 
computer  sciences  at  Tower  Hill  School  in  Wil- 
mington, DE. 

Bill  Goudie,  a  head  agent  for  the  WPI  Alumni 
Fund  for  the  past  five  years,  holds  the  post  of 
senior  engineer-Engineering  Service  Division 
at  Du  Pont  in  Wilmington,  DE. 

Len  Lamberti,  an  officer  in  the  New  England 
Association  for  Educational  Program  Person- 
nel (NEAEPP),  recently  received  a  certificate 
of  recognition  from  the  association  for  out- 
standing service  to  New  England  students.  He 


is  director  of  the  Training  in  Academic  Skills 
Center  at  the  University  of  New  Hampshire  in 
Durham. 

Dr.  Paul  McDonagh  is  now  an  assistant  pro- 
fessor in  the  Department  of  Surgery,  Yale 
School  of  Medicine,  New  Haven,  CT.  He  has 
an  MS  from  Columbia  and  a  PhD  from  the 
University  of  California. 

Elliot  Whipple  was  recently  honored  by  Texas 
Instruments  (TI)  as  one  of  45  inventors  whose 
patents  are  considered  particularly  significant. 
He  is  program  manager  for  motor-protection 
devices  in  automotive  markets.  He  had  worked 
with  TI  pressure-sensing  devices  in  automotive 
and  off- road  vehicle  markets.  He  has  an  MS 
in  engineering  from  Brown  and  an  MBA  from 
Wharton. 


1968 


Reunion 


October  15,  1983 


BORN:  to  Barbara  and  Frank  Verderber  their 
fourth  child,  a  daughter,  Kristen  Jean,  on  Au- 
gust 19,  1982.  Frank  is  employed  by  the  Long 
Island  Lighting  Co.  (LILCo)  as  a  management 
representative  at  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston, 
architectural  engineers  for  LILCo's  Shoreham 
Nuclear  Power  Station,  now  under  construc- 
tion. Barbara  is  a  dental  hygienist. 

Michael  Babin  has  a  new  post  in  the  Hydro 
Division  at  Chas.  T.  Main,  Inc.,  Boston. 

Donald  Bergstrom  serves  as  an  area  super- 
intendent at  the  Walsh  Construction  Co.  in 
Waynesboro,  GA. 

Frank  Check,  Jr.,  works  as  a  staff  engineer 
at  National  Semiconductor,  Sunnyvale,  CA. 

Joseph  Paquette  is  now  general  manager  of 
the  operations  division  at  James  Howden 
America,  East  Hartford,  CT.  He  has  an  MBA 
from  the  University  of  Pittsburgh. 


1969 


MARRIED:  Dr.  Lucien  J.  Teig  and  Marjorie 
E.  Cohen  on  June  6,  1982,  in  Worcester.  She 
graduated  from  Worcester  State  College  and 
is  a  quality-control  inspector  at  Ortho  Diag- 
nostic Systems,  Westwood.  He  is  an  assistant 
professor  of  physics  at  Yale  University.  He  re- 
ceived his  master's  and  doctoral  degrees  from 
Columbia  University. 

BORN:  to  Cheryl  Weisman-Cohen  and  Mi- 
chael Cohen  their  first  child,  Whitney  Sara,  on 
December  8,  1981.  Michael  is  customer  sup- 
port manager  of  Fund  Management  Systems  at 
STSC,  Inc.,  Boston.  Cheryl  is  assistant  to  the 
director,  Language  Consultants,  Wellesley,  MA. 

Christopher  Cowles  is  a  systems  analyst  for 
Neoterics  Consulting  Services  in  Darien,  CT. 

Jim  Foley,  a  member  of  the  technical  staff 
at  Bell  Telephone  Labs  (BTL),  Murray  Hill, 
NJ,  writes  that  he  had  a  very  rewarding  year 
(1981-82)  serving  as  a  BTL  visiting  professor 
at  Southern  University  in  Baton  Rouge,  LA. 
(The  Visiting  Professor  Program  is  designed  to 
assist  traditionally  black  colleges.)  Jim  taught 
courses  in  numerical  methods,  hnear  program- 
ming, nonlinear  programming  and  basic  circuit 
analysis.  Also,  he  worked  on  a  number  of  spe- 
cial projects,  including  one  to  design  and  im- 
plement an  MS  degree  program,  marking  a  sig- 


BE  IN  TUNE 
with,  all  the  news, 

events,  sports 
and  other  issues 

facing  the 
WPI  conunionity. 

Receive 

Wjwiispcak 

the  WPI  weekly 
student  newspaper. 


One-year  subscription, 
$10 

Send  check  or  money 
order  to: 

WPI  Newspeak 

Box  2472 

Worcester,  MA  01609 


FEBRUARY  1983 


33 


nificant  milestone  in  the  efforts  of  the  computer 
science  facuhy  and  College  of  Sciences  to  im- 
prove their  program  and  meet  industry's  needs. 

Ronald  Jones,  his  brother-in-law  and  brother 
have  helped  his  father.  Joseph,  build  an  electric 
car  from  a  fiberglass  replica  of  a  1952  MG  that 
comes  in  a  kit  form.  The  car.  built  on  a  1968 
VW  chassis,  weighs  2,660  pounds  and  can  go 
from  0  to  30  miles  an  hour  in  eight  seconds. 
At  an  average  driving  speed  of  40  miles  an 
hour,  it  can  go  65  miles  before  the  batteries 
have  to  be  recharged.  Reportedly,  the  Jones 
car  has  a  light  hum  as  it  travels  along  the  high- 
ways in  West  Hartford.  CT. 

Mahendra  Patel  has  been  elected  vice  pres- 
ident of  the  Engineering  Societies  of  New  Eng- 
land (ESNE).  A  former  ESNE  treasurer,  he  is 
also  a  professional  engineer  and  a  senior  me- 
chanical engineer  in  the  engineering,  planning 
and  research  department  of  the  Boston  Edison 
Company.  He  has  been  associated  with  fossil- 
fueled  power  plants  since  1969  and  has  been 
involved  with  air  pollution  studies  and  envi- 
ronmental regulations.  He  is  currently  the 
project  manager  for  a  $20-million  Boston  Serv- 
ice Center  facility  under  construction  in  Dor- 
chester. 

V.  J.  Shah  continues  as  principal  engineer 
at  Gilbert  Commonwealth  in  Jackson,  MI. 

Thomas  Starr  has  been  elected  chairman  of 
the  800-member  Boston  section  of  the  Amer- 
ican Institute  of  Chemical  Engineers.  He  has 
an  MBA  from  Rutgers  and  is  currently  super- 
visor of  process  engineering  for  Koch  Process 
Systems,  Inc.,  Westboro,  MA.  Starr,  his  wife. 
Susan,  son,  Michael,  and  daughter,  Betsy,  live 
in  Southboro. 


1970 


MARRIED:  Robert  D.  Plante  to  Jean  K.  Hos- 
tetler  recently  in  Lafayette,  IN.  She  graduated 
from  St.  Francis  Hospital  School  of  Radio- 
logical Technology,  Lynwood.  CA.  An  assis- 
tant professor  of  management  at  Purdue  Uni- 
versity, he  has  a  doctorate  in  business 
administration  from  the  University  of  Georgia. 
In  May.  Alan  Hassett  was  inducted  into  Beta 
Gamma  Sigma  at  Southern  Illinois  University. 
Edwardsville.  Beta  Gamma  Sigma  is  the  na- 
tional scholastic  honor  society  in  business  and 
administration. 


1971 


MARRIKD:  James  Crittenden  to  Lizabeth  Ann 
Sanford  m  Nashua.  NH.  on  May  29.  1982.  She 
graduated  from  Rivier  College  and  is  a  quality 
assurance  specialist.  He  is  a  senior  project  en- 
gineer at  U.S.  Catheter  and  Instruments.  Bil- 
Icrica.  MA. 

Joe  l.aptewicz  has  been  promoted  to  assis- 
tant director  of  finance  and  technology  man- 
agement for  Howmcdica  Corporate  R&D,  a 
subsidiary  of  Pfi/er  'Fourtecn-month-old  son 
Nicholas  loves  sailing  just  like  his  folks."  The 
family  sails  a  Ranger  in  local  regattas. 

Vincent  Pace  received  his  JD  degree  from 
Temple  University  last  May.  He  is  now  a  pat- 
ent attorney  with  the  Dept.  of  the  Navy  at  the 
Naval  Research  Laboratories  in  Washington, 
DC. 


Have  You  Seen  This  Man? 

Fun  with  Dick  and  Jane 
and  Pete  and  Tillie 

The  next  time  you  settle  down  for  an  eve- 
ning of  TV  and  suddenly  think  you've 
spotted  a  familiar  face  on  the  screen,  you 
probably  have.  The  face  could  well  belong 
to  Robert  Lussier,  '56,  who  during  the 
past  25  years  has  appeared  in  dozens  of 
TV  shows  and  more  than  200  commer- 
cials. 

If  you  thought  you'd  caught  him  in  the 
movies,  that  would  be  true,  too.  There 
have  been  16  movies,  as  well  as  numerous 
stock  productions  and  off-Broadway  plays. 


Some  of  Bob's  latest  television  credits 
are  The  Gambler,  Herbie,  Hart  to  Hart 
and  The  Dukes  of  Hazzard.  He  also  ap- 
peared in  Salem's  Lot,  The  Sam  Sheppard 
Murder  Case  and  Sandcastles.  His  TV 
specials  include  Cricket  on  the  Hearth, 
Hellzapoppin.  Pinocchio  and  Jack  and 
the  Beanstalk.  He  worked  in  the  pilots  of 
Housecalls  and  The  Practice. 

Among  his  feature  films  are  Love  at 
First  Bite,  High  Anxiety,  Fun  With  Dick 
and  Jane,  Mother.  Jugs  and  Speed,  Air- 
port '75,  Pete  and  Tillie  and  The  Killing 
of  Sister  George. 

Bob  did  a  hitch  in  the  Navy  after  at- 
tending WPI  and  Brown.  A  pianist,  singer 
and  nightclub  performer  since  age  12,  he 
later  studied  classical  music,  and,  as  a 
member  of  the  Peloquin  Chorale,  taped 
several  network  TV  specials. 

He  says,  "I  began  my  acting  career  in 
community  theatre.  One  of  my  early  tours 
was  with  the  national  company  of  The  Odd 
Couple  with  George  Gobel."  His  first  work 
in  Los  Angeles  was  in  That  Girl.  Later  he 
appeared  in  TV  oldies:  Get  Smart,  Bon- 
anza, Owen  Marshall  and  Room  222. 

Bob  serves  as  musical  director  for  his 
parish  in  Hollywood  and  has  conducted 
an  acting  workshop  at  a  penitentiary.  He 
was  affiliated  with  the  Los  Angeles  Rep- 
ertory Company  and  for  ten  years  he  has 
been  with  Theatre  East,  serving  on  the 
board  of  directors  for  two  years.  "I  need 
constant  involvement  in  theatre."  he  says. 


1972 


MARRIED:  David  Cummings  and  Lisa  An- 
drews on  May  29,  1982.  in  Holdcn,  MA.  A 
graduate  of  Nashoba  Regional  High  School, 
she  is  a  secretary  for  Lawrence  McCoy  Lumber 
Company,  Worcester.  He  is  executive  vice 
president  and  treasurer  at  Worcester-based 
Lowell  Corp.  and  has  a  master's  degree  from 
Babson. 

BORN:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Vincent  Colonero  a 
son,  Gregory,  recently.  Daughter  Katie  is  two. 
Colonero  is  with  Northeast  Utilities  Service  Co. 
in  Wethersfield,  CT.  .  .  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Sam- 
uel T.  Cascovitch  a  daughter,  Jennifer  Rose, 
last  year.  Cuscovitch  is  assistant  director  of 
telecommunications  at  Cigna-Connccticut 
General.  .  .  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Richard  Podolny 
a  daughter,  Seiene  Deua.  Podolny  is  a  certified 
Rolfer  in  Tokyo,  Japan. 

Dr.  Charles  Brine  has  gained  international 
recognition  through  publications  and  commer- 
cialized patents  concerned  with  chilin,  a  cellu- 
lose-related marine  biopolymcr.  He  has  par- 
ticipated in  several  national  and  international 
symposia  and  was  recently  promoted  to  man- 
ager of  exploratory  research  for  FMC  Corpo- 
ration in  the  Food  &  Pharmaceutical  Products 
Division,  Princeton.  NJ. 


John  Burke  is  with  the  Department  of  In- 
terior in  the  Bureau  of  Reclamation  in  Nevada. 
He  says,-  "We  live  in  Boulder  City,  about  '/; 
hour  from  Las  Vegas." 

Michael  Corby,  manager  of  EDP  consulting, 
Arthur  Young  &  Co.,  had  an  article  published 
in  the  Ma.^sachu.<ietts  CPA  Review  last  summer. 
He  and  his  wife,  Linda,  conduct  "engaged  en- 
counter weekends  for  couples"  in  the  Worces- 
ter area. 

Michael  DiBenedetto,  an  energy  supply  en- 
gineer for  Eastern  Utilities  Associates  (EUA), 
spoke  about  "The  Future  Energy  Sources  for 
EUA"  at  a  Rotary  Club  meeting  in  Forestdale, 
RI,  in  September. 

Richard  Sojka  has  been  appointed  director 
of  engineering  at  Clairol's  manufacturing  fa- 
cility in  Stamford,  CT.  Since  joining  the  firm 
in  1972,  he  has  held  increasingly  responsible 
posts  including,  most  recently,  manager  of  in- 
dustrial engineering. 


1973 


Reunion 


October  15,  1983 


MARRIED:  Robert  C.  Haywood  and  Marnie 
Fournier  on  August  22, 1982,  in  Wakefield,  RI. 


34         WPI    JOURNAL 


She  graduated  from  Mount  Holyoke  College 
and  is  a  speech  pathologist  at  Tiny  Tim  De- 
velopmental Center,  Longmont,  CO.  He  has 
an  MBA  from  Harvard  and  holds  the  post  of 
president  at  Aspen  International,  Inc.,  Boul- 
der, CO.  .  .  .  Herbert  Hedberg  to  Cynthia 
Hjerpe  in  Norton,  MA,  on  June  26,  1982. 
Graduated  from  Wheaton  College  and  with 
master's  and  doctoral  degrees  from  Brown 
University,  she  is  chairman  of  foreign  lan- 
guages for  the  Franklin  public  school  system. 
An  operations  manager  at  Autochrom,  Inc., 
Hopedale,  he  has  a  master's  degree  from 
Northeastern  University.  .  .  .  Bill  C.  Penney 
and  Noirin  C.  O'Brien  in  Worcester  on  July 
11,  1982.  Educated  in  Ireland,  she  is  a  beauty 
consultant,  and  an  employee  of  the  Shawmut 
Worcester  County  Bank.  He  is  an  assistant  pro- 
fessor of  biomedical  engineering  at  WPI,  where 
he  received  his  master's  and  doctoral  degrees. 
He  is  also  a  research  associate  in  the  depart- 
ment of  surgery  at  the  University  of  Massa- 
chusetts Medical  Center,  Worcester.  The  cou- 
ple will  use  the  last  name  of  O'Brien-Penney. 

BORN:  to  Rhonda  and  Raymond  F.  Cher- 
enzia  a  son,  Sergio  Francis,  on  June  17,  1982. 
Ray,  who  is  a  professional  engineer,  has  his 
own  land  surveying  and  consulting  engineering 
business  in  Westerly,  RI.  ...  to  Janice  and 
Mark  Whitley  a  son,  Matthew  Ryan,  on  April 
17,  1982.  Formerly  with  Shell  Offshore,  Inc., 
New  Orleans,  LA,  Mark  recently  joined 
Mitchell  Energy  Corporation,  The  Woodlands, 
TX,  where  he  is  a  staff  reservoir  engineer  in 
the  engineering  and  evaluations  department. 

Jeff  Blaisdell  is  a  project  manager  at  Geo. 
B.H.  Macomber  Co.,  Boston.  He  and  Carol 
have  two  children  and  live  in  East  Falmouth. 

Roger  Heinen,  Jr.,  is  coauthor  of  Engineer- 
ing a  Compiler:  VAX-11  Code  Generation  and 
Optimization,  a  book  on  computer  language 
compiler  development.  It  is  available  through 
the  Digital  Press. 

John  Manzo  now  holds  the  post  of  corporate 
manager  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  May- 
nard,  MA.  He  has  an  MBA  from  Southern 
Illinois  University. 

Martin  Sklar  holds  the  post  of  product  de- 
velopment engineer  at  Foxboro  Analytical, 
Burlington,  MA. 

John  Williams,  Jr.,  is  a  senior  engineer  for 
Shell  Oil  Co.,  Norco,  LA.  He  says,  "I  am  cur- 
rently working  in  process  computer  control." 


1974 


MARRIED:  Steve  Dacri  to  Marlene  Ciroli  in 
Framingham,  MA,  on  August  20,  1982.  She 
graduated  from  Mt.  Ida  Junior  College  and  has 
been  working  as  a  medical  assistant.  He  is  a 
professional  actor-magician  in  Los  Angeles. 
.  .  .David  A.  Peterson  and  Virginia  A.  Tubbs 
on  August  28,  1982,  in  Ithaca,  NY.  She  grad- 
uated from  Houghton  College.  He  has  a  mas- 
ter's degree  from  Cornell  and  is  a  software  en- 
gineer for  Borg-Warner  Electronics.  .  .  . 
Stephen  Remen  and  Patricia  Flaherty  in  Attle- 
boro  Falls,  MA,  on  July  24,  1982.  A  sales  ad- 
ministrator for  Semi-Conductor  Circuits, 
Windham,  NH,  she  graduated  from  Westfield 
(MA)  State  College.  He  is  a  project  engineer 
for  Thermo  Electron,  Waltham.  .  .  .  Craig  W. 
Tyler  to  Lois  A.  Brumbaugh  on  October  9, 
1982,  in  Wallingford,  CT.  A  secretary,  she 


graduated  from  Stone  School  of  Business.  He 
is  a  sales  engineer  for  Times  Fiber  Commu- 
nications, WaUingford. 

BORN:  to  Betsy  and  John  Chipman  their 
second  child,  Scott  Douglas,  on  June  3,  1982. 
They  have  a  daughter,  Julie  Ellen,  two.  John 
is  an  electrical  engineer  at  GTE  Sylvania  in 
Westboro,  MA.  .  .  .to  Marian  (Compagnone) 
and  Irvin  S.  Press  their  first  child,  Stephen  An- 
thony, on  April  12,  1982.  Irv  is  working  as  an 
account  executive  at  the  advertising  agency  of 
Robinson  Associates  in  Boston. 

Barbara  Bain  has  been  promoted  to  the  new 
post  of  division  manager-planning  and  creative 
resources  in  the  public  relations  department  of 
Southern  New  England  Telephone  (SNET). 
Barbara  joined  the  company  in  1974  as  a  staff 
assistant.  Later,  she  became  senior  engineer  of 
systems  planning  and  manager-installation  and 
repair.  Last  year,  she  was  promoted  to  district 
staff  manager  of  business  service  center  meth- 
ods. She  belongs  to  the  Black  Management 
Association  and  the  Executive  Women's  Coun- 
cil at  SNET. 

Leonard  Brzozowski  holds  the  position  of 
business  unit  manager  at  Midland-Ross,  To- 
ledo, OH.  He  has  an  ME  from  Thayer  School 
of  Engineering  and  an  MBA  from  Tuck  School, 
Dartmouth  College. 

Alan  Judd  was  recently  promoted  to  plant 
engineer  of  a  division  of  Aqua  Chem,  Inc., 
Lebanon,  PA. 

Alan  Kirby  continues  as  distributed  systems 
advanced  development  manager  at  Digital 
Equipment  Corp.,  Tewksbury,  MA.  The  Kir- 
bys  live  in  Tyngsboro  with  their  baby  son,  Ni- 
cholas, and  daughter,  Sarah. 

Joseph  Mullin  has  been  appointed  district 
sales  manager  for  the  Northeast  region  of  the 
Harris  Corp.,  RF  Communications  Division. 
He  will  serve  11  states,  including  New  Jersey. 
Mullin  has  eight  years  of  experience  with  the 
U.S.  Army  Corps  of  Engineers,  New  England 
Division,  and  the  European  Division  in  Frank- 
furt, Germany.  He  has  an  MBA  from  the  Bos- 
ton University  Graduate  School  of  Manage- 
ment. 

Douglas  Schmidt,  who  received  a  degree  from 
Palmer  College  of  Chiropractic  last  year,  is  self- 
employed  at  Lake  Boone  Chiropractic  in  Ra- 
leigh, NC. 

Charles  Waldron  continues  as  vice  president 
and  actuary  at  Shenandoah  Life  Insurance  Co. , 
Roanoke,  VA. 

Mark  Whitney  recently  received  his  profes- 
sional engineer's  license  in  Connecticut. 


1975 


MARRIED:  Armand  A.  Balasco,  Jr.,  and  Bar- 
bara A.  Kuryk  in  Providence,  RI,  on  June  27, 
1982.  She  holds  bachelor's  and  master's  de- 
grees in  chemical  engineering  from  Columbia 
University.  He  has  an  MS  in  chemical  engi- 
neering from  Tufts.  Both  are  engineering  con- 
sultants at  Arthur  D.  Little,  Inc.,  Cambridge, 
MA.  .  .  .  John  P.  Bird  to  Melissa  L.  Spinney 
on  September  25,  1982,  in  West  Brookfield, 
MA.  A  registered  nurse  at  the  University  of 
Massachusetts  Medical  Center,  Worcester,  she 
graduated  from  Children's  Hospital  School  of 
Nursing,  Boston,  Curry  College  and  Fitchburg 
State  College.  He  is  a  manufacturing  engineer 
with  Norton  Co.,  Worcester. 


MARRIED:  Steven  K.  Eichinger  and  Clau- 
dia B.  Barna  in  Somerville,  MA,  on  June  19, 
1982.  She  attended  Douglass  College  and  Rut- 
gers University  and  is  with  Bell  Laboratories 
in  Murray  Hill.  He  is  a  registered  plant  engi- 
neer at  Bell  Labs  and  holds  a  degree  from  the 
Polytechnic  Institute  of  New  York.  .  .  .Clarke 
V.  Greene  to  Virginia  A.  McGivern  in  Avon, 
CT,  on  June  19,  1982.  A  music  teacher,  she 
graduated  from  Hartt  College  of  Music  at  the 
University  of  Hartford.  He  is  a  systems  engi- 
neer for  Times  Fiber  Communications. 

Glenn  Ekwall,  now  process  coordinator  for 
UOP,  Inc.,  Des  Plaines,  IL,  writes:  "Have  re- 
turned to  our  home  office  after  five  years  on 
the  road  as  a  technical  advisor."  He  and  his 
wife,  Delia,  have  a  year-old  son,  Justin,  and 
live  in  Palatine. 

Now  that  John  and  Ginny  Giordano  Fitz- 
Patrick  have  returned  to  their  home  in  Mor- 
ristown,  NJ,  following  two  years  in  England, 
Ginny  is  working  part  time  as  a  supplemental 
consultant  for  Service  Bureau  Company, 
Greenwich,  CT.  John  continues  with  Exxon 
Research  &  Engineering,  Florham  Park,  NJ, 
where  he  is  a  group  head.  He  is  also  working 
for  his  MBA  at  Rutgers.  The  FitzPatricks  have 
a  daughter  and  a  son. 

Abdul  Khan  joined  Chas.  T.  Main  Interna- 
tional in  January  of  1982.  He  has  been  working 
on  the  Shiroro  hydroelectric  project  in  Nigeria. 

Stephen  Mealy  has  been  named  senior  me- 
chanical engineer  at  Neil  Brown  Instrument 
Systems,  Inc.,  Cataumet,  MA.  Previously,  he 
had  been  three  years  at  Benthos,  Inc.,  North 
Falmouth.  In  his  new  post,  he  will  be  working 
on  underwater-instrument  packaging. 

Kevin  Mischler,  transportation  planner  for 
the  Central  Connecticut  Valley  Regional  Plan- 
ning Agency,  Bristol,  CT,  was  recently  ap- 
pointed transit  planner  (brokerage  and  admin- 
istration) for  the  Windham  Region  Transit 
District.  He  is  also  associated  with  the  Wind- 
ham Regional  Planning  Association,  where  the 
brokerage  operation  is  centered.  He  holds  an 
MBA  from  the  University  of  Hartford. 

Judith  Nitsch  has  joined  Allen  &  Demurjian, 
Inc.,  Boston,  where  she  is  a  senior  project  en- 
gineer. A  registered  professional  engineer  in 
Massachusetts,  Rhode  Island,  Connecticut  and 
Vermont,  she  had  been  with  Schofield  Bros.- 
Freeman  Engineering  Co.,  Attleboro,  MA.  She 
has  specialized  in  site  planning  and  develop- 
ment. 


1976 


MARRIED:  David  W.  Graham  and  Donna  M. 
O'Brien  in  Worcester  on  July  4,  1982.  A  teacher 
at  Blackstone  Valley  Regional  Vocational  High 
School,  Upton,  MA,  she  graduated  from  Anna 
Maria  with  a  BA  in  mathematics  and  is  study- 
ing for  her  master's  degree  at  Framingham  State, 
College.  He  holds  the  position  of  production 
supervisor  analyst  at  Fitchburg  Gas  and  Elec- 
tric Co.  In  1981,  he  was  named  an  Outstanding 
Young  Man  of  America.  .  .  .  Paul  A.  Knoll- 
meyer  and  Tina  M.  Simonetta  in  Lanesboro, 
MA,  on  July  17,  1982.  She  graduated  from 
Adelphi  University  with  a  degree  in  dance  and 
is  a  musical  comedy  performer  in  East  Wind- 
sor, CT.  He  is  machine  shop  manager  and  en- 
gineer at  Steinerfilm,  Inc.,  Williamstown.  .  .  . 
Ivo  Slezak  to  Faith  L.  Vincent  in  Fulton,  NY, 


FEBRUARY  1983 


35 


on  August  28,  1982.  She  graduated  from  G. 
Ray  Bodley  High  School.  He  is  a  service  en- 
gineer for  Riley  Stoker.  Worcester. 

BORN:  to  Maureen  and  Richard  Escolas  their 
third  child.  Michael  Thomas,  on  June  28.  1982. 
...  to  Mary  Polanik  Sherman  and  her  hus- 
band. Reggie,  their  first  child,  a  daughter.  Al- 
ison Hayley.  on  August  2.  1982.  Mary  is  on 
leave  from  Riley  Stoker  Corp.,  Worcester, 
where  she  works  as  a  programmer'analyst. 

John  Bucci  has  accepted  a  post  as  manager 
of  shop  operations  with  the  carboloy  branch  of 
GE  in  Detroit. 

Hugo  Cuevas-Mohr  is  now  working  on  a  re- 
gional development  plan  for  the  Colombian 
Pacific  Coast,  a  project  co-sponsored  by  UN- 
ICEF,  the  Universidad  del  Valle,  Cali  and  the 
Colombian  government.  The  coast  is  one  of 
Colombia's  most  deprived  areas.  Previously. 
he  studied  rural  development  at  the  Catholic 
University  of  Louvain  in  Belgium,  worked  for 
a  nonprofit  foundation  called  "Homes  for  Farm 
Youth"  and  served  as  a  technical  manager  for 
a  shrimp  fishing  company  off  the  Colombian 
coast. 

Jim  Hall,  who  serves  as  a  senior  consultant 
for  Arthur  Andersen  and  Co. ,  is  now  president 
of  the  Boston  Chapter  of  the  WPI  Alumni  As- 
sociation. 

Kevin  Hastings  has  been  promoted  to  su- 
pervisor of  betterment  construction  at  North- 
east Utilities  (NU).  Hartford,  CT.  He  was  pro- 
moted to  engineer  in  betterment  construction 
in  1981.  He  has  an  MS  in  management  from 
Hartford  Graduate  Center.  Hastings  is  married 
and  lives  in  Colchester,  where  he  participates 
in  athletic  activities  and  recreational  programs. 

Philip  Sherwood  wrote  an  article  about  bis 
cyclic  urea  compounds  which  appeared  in  the 
June  issue  of  the  Journal  of  Coalings  Tech- 
nology. He  specializes  in  the  development  of 
coating  systems  at  the  Donald  S.  Gilmore  Lab- 
oratories of  the  Upjohn  Co.,  North  Haven, 
CT. 

Jeffrey  Wilcox  holds  the  post  of  area  sales 
manager  at  Mobil  Oil  Corp.,  Los  Angeles.  He 
received  his  MBA  from  the  University  of  Pitts- 
burgh. 


1977 


MARRIED:  Matthew  L.  Bacon  and  Jean  M 
Fritz  in  Eric,  PA,  on  June  12,  1982.  She  has  a 
BS  in  nursing  and  is  a  registered  nurse  in  the 
cardiac-care  unit  at  St.  Vincent  Health  Center. 
Erie.  He  serves  as  plant  manager  at  Erie  Tool 
Works.  .  .  .  Douglas  B.  Chri.sten.sen  and  Kath- 
leen Szczoczarz  in  Seekonk,  MA,  on  Septem- 
ber 25.  1982.  She  graduated  from  Tolman  High 
School  and  is  employed  by  Old  Colony-New- 
port National  Bank,  Providence,  RI.  He  is  with 
Texas  Instruments,  Attlcboro.  MA.  He  has  an 
MBA  from  Bryant  College.  .  .  i>awrence  N. 
Coel  to  Gail  L.  Soil  in  Natick,  MA.  on  Sep- 
tember 5.  1982.  She  received  a  bachelor's  de- 
gree in  business  management  from  Boston 
University.  A  sales  administrator  at  Intcrcx 
Corp..  Natick.  he  has  an  MBA  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  Hartford John  W.  Hjort  and 

Margaret  K  Billing  on  June  19.  1982,  m  Stowc, 
VT.  She  attended  Cicorgc  Mason  University 
and  was  a  student  at  Trinity  C  ollcgc.  She  is  a 
staff  assistant  at  IBM  in  Essex  Junction,  where 
he  serves  as  an  associate  engineer. 


M.ARRIED:  Dr.  Steven  Hoogasian  and  Julia 
A.  Boytim  on  June  12,  1982,  in  Spencer.  MA. 
She  is  a  student  at  St.  Francis  Hospital  School 
of  Nursing.  Hartford,  CT.  A  graduate  of 
Worcester  State  College  and  Albany  (NY) 
Medical  College,  he  is  a  surgical  resident  at  St. 
Francis  Hospital.  He  has  a  PhD  in  chemistry 
from  WPL  .  .  .  Walter  Peterson  and  Debra  Folev 
in  Plainville,  MA.  on  August  14.  1982.  She 
graduated  from  Bridgewater  State  College  and 
is  a  special  education  teacher.  He  serves  as  a 
structural  engineer  for  ITT  Grinnell.  .  .  .  Dr. 
Martin  P.  Wai  to  Lei  Yu  in  Shrewsbury,  MA, 
on  June  6,  1982.  She  graduated  from  National 
Taiwan  University  and  is  studying  for  her  mas- 
ter's degree  at  UMass,  Amherst.  Dr.  Wai,  who 
received  his  PhD  from  the  University  of  Mas- 
sachusetts, is  with  Hercules,  Inc.,  Wilmington, 
DE. 

Michael  Connor  works  as  a  construction  en- 
gineer at  EBASCO  Services,  Inc.,  Jensen 
Beach,  FL.  Since  graduation  he  has  been  em- 
ployed with  the  St.  Lucie  Unit  2  nuclear  power 
plant. 

Paul  Hajec,  who  is  employed  by  the  Merri- 
mack Valley  Planning  Commission  (MVPC), 
Haverhill,  MA,  has  a  master's  degree  in  trans- 
portation engineering  from  Northeastern.  He 
also  serves  as  the  MVPC  liaison  to  George- 
town's Board  of  Selectmen  and  Urban  Systems 
Committee. 

Mark  Johnson,  who  received  his  MD  from 
the  University  of  Massachusetts  in  1980,  is  a 
senior  resident  at  Brigham  and  Women's  Hos- 
pital, Boston,  MA. 

Ronald  Jolda  was  among  the  first  group  of 
students  who  graduated  from  the  University  of 
New  England  College  of  Osteopathic  Medicine 
in  Biddeford,  ME,  in  June.  He  is  interning  at 
Lansing  General  Osteopathic  Hospital  in 
Michigan. 

Steven  Kovner  is  a  programmer  for  Higher 
Order  Software,  Department  of  Transporta- 
tion, Transportation  Systems  Center,  Cam- 
bridge, MA.  His  wife.  Marcia,  received  her 
master's  in  chemistry  from  Brandeis.  They  have 
one  child. 

Catherine  Seymour,  who  recently  received  a 
PhD  in  chemistry  from  MIT,  has  been  named 
a  postdoctoral  research  scientist  at  the  Worces- 
ter Foundation  for  Experimental  Biology  in 
Shrewsbury,  MA. 

Christin  Walker  has  received  her  MSME  from 
RPI,  graduating  with  honors.  She  has  been  at- 
tending RPI  while  working  as  an  engineer  at 
GE  in  Pittsfield.  Recently,  she  graduated  from 
GE's  Advanced  Training  Program. 

Matthew  Ward  is  with  the  MTS-Visual  Com- 
munications Research  Department  at  Bell  Labs 
in  Holmdcl,  NJ.  He  has  an  MS  and  a  PhD  in 
computer  science  from  the  University  of  Con- 
necticut. 

George  Whitwell  has  received  his  PhD  from 
Cornell.  He  is  an  associate  research  chemist  at 
Stauffer  Chemical  Co.,  Dobbs  Ferry,  NY. 


1978 


Reunion 


October  15,  1983 


MARRIED:  Karen  A.  Chesney  to  Frederick  J 
Honold.  Jr.,  on  October  9,  1982,  in  Morris- 
town.  NJ.  She  is  a  staff  manager  with  the 
American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company 


in  Parsippany,  NJ,  where  he  is  a  staff  super- 
visor with  AT&T  Long  Lines.  He  graduated 
from  Bowdoin  College  and  received  an  MBA 
from  Seton  Hall  University.  .  .  .  Peter  W.  Lan- 
dry and  Susan  M.  Lapierre  on  June  4.  1982, 
in  Leicester.  MA.  She  graduated  from  Boston 
College.  He  is  with  Exxon  Research  &  Engi- 
neering Co.,  Florham  Park.  NJ.  .  .  .  Houghton 
Lewis  and  Joanna  S.  du  Pont  in  Greenville, 
DE,  on  September  18.  1982.  She  graduated 
from  Brown  University  and  until  recently  was 
with  the  New  York  advertising  agency  of  Grey, 
Lyon  &  King.  He  is  technical  representative 
for  the  photo  products  division  of  E.  I.  du  Pont 
de  Nemours  &  Company  in  Lansing,  MI.  .  .  . 
Thomas  J.  Medrek  to  Kathleen  A.  O'Brien  in 
Franklin,  MA,  on  August  28,  1982.  She  grad- 
uated from  Becker  and  the  University  of  Con- 
necticut with  degrees  in  physical  therapy.  He 
is  a  candidate  for  a  master's  degree  at  Dart- 
mouth College.  .  .  .  Doreen  R.  Woodman  and 
John  W.  Taylor,  Jr.,  on  October  2,  1982,  in 
Worcester.  She  is  employed  by  Raytheon 
Equipment  Division,  Wayland,  MA.  He  grad- 
uated from  Boston  College  and  Suffolk  Uni- 
versity and  is  with  GTE  Communication  Sys- 
tems, Needham. 

Michael  Ahern  has  been  promoted  to  engi- 
neer at  Northeast  Utilities,  Hartford,  CT.  He 
joined  the  firm  in  1981  as  an  associate  engineer 
in  the  Generation  Engineering  Department  at 
the  Berlin  general  offices.  He  has  a  master's 
degree  in  engineering  mechanics  from  the 
Hartford  Graduate  Center  and  is  working  to- 
ward his  MBA  at  the  center.  From  1978  to  1981 
he  was  with  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft. 

Zita  Babickas,  a  scientist  for  Energy  Re- 
sources Co.,  Inc.  (ERCO),  Cambridge.  MA. 
has  an  MS  in  biochemistry  from  the  University 
of  Rochester. 

Lou  Collette,  an  engineering  specialist  at 
Emerson  Electric  in  St.  Louis.  MO.  is  studying 
for  his  master's  at  the  University  of  Missouri. 

Patrick  Donahue  serves  as  liaison  engineer 
for  Du  Pont  in  Newark,  DE.  He  is  working  on 
a  project  team  to  rebuild  nuclear  chemical  sep- 
arations plants  at  Savannah  River,  SC. 

Robert  Naugler  has  received  his  MSME  from 
Northeastern.  He  is  with  Raytheon  of  Wav- 
land,  MA. 

Rob  Pierce  serves  an  assistant  project  engi- 
neer at  Eastern  Utilities  Associates,  Lincoln, 
RI.  He  also  works  as  a  flight  instructor  at  Sky- 
lanes,  Inc..  North  Central  State  Airport. 

Dr.  Steven  Sepe,  who  graduated  from  the 
New  York  University  College  of  Dentistry  in 
New  York  City  in  1982.  is  currently  a  dentist 
with  the  Billerica  (MA)  Dental  Association. 


1979 


MARRIED:  Scott  M.  Booth  to  Paula  R  La 
brum  on  June  12.  1982.  in  Avalon.  NJ.  She 
attended  Delaware  County  College  He  is  proj- 
ect manager  for  Mellon-Stuart  Co..  Harris- 
burg,  PA  Albert  A.  Cormier  and  Diane 
R.  McConnell  July  .^1.  1982,  in  Pawtuckct,  RI. 
She  is  with  New  England  Telephone,  Fra- 
mingham,  MA  ,  and  he  is  with  Kemper  Group 
in  North  Ouincy.  .  .  .  Stephen  Fi.sk  to  Jane 
Bartlctt  in  Worthington,  MA,  on  August  7. 
1982.  She  graduated  from  Gateway  Regional 
High  .School  and  is  with  the  cardiology  de- 
partment at  the  Cooley  Dickinson  Hospital. 


36        WPI   JOURNAL 


Paul  Cleary 

Wins  Writing  Awards 

Paul  Cleary,  71,  an  editorial  writer  for 
the  Tulsa  World,  has  received  two  awards 
in  the  Associated  Press  newswriting  com- 
petition for  Oklahoma.  He  won  first  place 
for  newspaper  column  writing  and  second 
place  for  public  service  reporting. 

The  columns  included  analyses  of  U.S. 
House  Budget  Committee  Chairman  James 
Jones's  battle  over  the  Reagan  administra- 
tion's budget  proposal,  the  campaign  by 
the  National  Conservative  Political  Action 
Committee  to  unseat  Jones,  and  the 
constitutionality  of  executing  juvenile 
criminals. 

With  the  World  for  five  years,  Cleary 
placed  second  in  public-service  reporting 
for  an  article  on  loopholes  in  the  state's 
drunken-driving  laws.  The  story  led  to  an 
overhaul  of  the  Oklahoma  statutes. 

After  graduating  from  WPI  with  a 
degree  in  Humanities  and  Technology  (En- 
glish),  Cleary  served  as  a  regional  reporter 
for  the  Worcester  Telegram  &  Gazette  in 
Clinton,  Southbridge  and  Webster,  MA, 
and  as  a  member  of  the  city  news  staff. 
Later,  he  was  a  visiting  professor  in 
English  and  an  associate  project  adminis- 
trator at  WPI.  He  also  served  on  the  WPI 


His  articles  mold  public  opinion. 

Student  Alumni  Relations  Committee. 
He  holds  a  law  degree  from  the  University 
of  Tulsa  and  is  a  member  of  the  Oklahoma 
bar. 

Cleary  joined  the  Tulsa  World  as  a  re- 
porter while  attending  the  University  of 
Tulsa.  After  receiving  his  degree,  he  be- 
came political  editor  until  named  editorial 
writer  in  July  1981.  His  wife,  Julia  Ann, 
also  a  writer,  graduated  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  Missouri  Journalism  School. 


He  works  for  Daniel  O'Connell's  Sons  as  a 
field  engineer  and  mechanical  coordinator  in 
Holyoke.  .  .  .  Robert  R.  Lamoureux,  Jr.,  to 
Alisa  F.  ladevaia  on  July  17,  1982,  in  Warwick, 
RI.  She  attends  Rhode  Island  College.  Cor- 
mier is  employed  by  Gulton  Industries.  .  .  . 
David  A.  Mauriello  to  Susan  A.  Fusco  in 
Watertown,  CT,  on  July  30,  1982.  A  teacher 
in  Melbourne,  FL,  she  graduated  from  UConn 
and  the  Computer  Processing  Institute,  East 
Hartford,  CT.  He  is  employed  as  a  product 
engineer  by  Harris  Semiconductor,  Inc.,  in  Palm 
Bay.  FL. 

MARRIED:  Peter  Mullarkey  and  Sara  J. 
Horton  in  Lancaster,  NH,  on  July  10,  1982. 
She  graduated  from  UNH.  He  attends  gradu- 
ate school  at  Carnegie-Mellon  University, 
Pittsburgh,  PA.  .  .  .  Rene  J.  Richard  to  Diana 
M.  Murphy  in  Rochester,  NY,  on  September 
18,  1982.  She  graduated  from  Bryant  &  Strat- 
ton  and  is  a  secretary  at  Eastman  Kodak  Co., 
Rochester,  where  he  is  a  mechanical  engineer. 
.  .  .  John  M.  Tracy,  Jr.,  and  Joanne  Beckett 
on  September  5,  1982,  in  Worcester.  She  is  a 
research  engineer  for  Union  Carbide  Corp., 
Tarrytown,  NY.  She  has  a  master's  degree  from 
WPI.  He  has  a  master's  from  Northeastern  and 
holds  the  post  of  terminal  supervisor  at  Exxon 
Corp.,  Pelham,  NY.  .  .  .  Chris  Wilmot  and 
Adelaide  Auwerda  in  Sparta,  NJ,  on  July  24, 
1982.  She  attended  Becker  and  graduated  from 
Trenton  State  College  with  a  nursing  degree. 
He  is  a  chemical  engineer  with  the  Naval  Ord- 
nance Station  in  Indian  Head,  MD. 

BORN:  to  Mary  and  Jeffrey  Boike  a  son, 
Justin  Richard,  on  August  3,  1982.  Jeff  con- 
tinues with  UOP  in  McCook,  IL. 


John  Auger  recently  moved  to  Connecticut 
after  being  promoted  to  senior  manufacturing 
engineer  at  Parker-Hannifin.  He  and  his  wife, 
Sarah,  reside  in  Middletown. 

Mary  Farren  holds  the  post  of  manufactur- 
ing engineer  at  IBM,  Poughkeepsie,  NY. 

Dorothy  Hamilton,  who  is  working  for  her 
PhD  at  the  University  of  Illinois,  is  a  research 
assistant  in  chemistry  at  the  University  of  Flor- 
ida in  Gainesville. 

Stephen  Hull,  Jr.,  is  an  NIH  doctoral  fellow 
at  Michigan  State  University  in  East  Lansing. 

Edward  Lambert,  Jr.,  wrote  a  section  in  the 
mechanical  engineers'  Blue  Book.  "Internal 
Grinding — Advantages,  Problems  and  Solu- 
tions." He  is  supervisor  of  grinding  apphca- 
tions  at  Heald  Machine  division  of  Cincinnati 
Milacron,  Worcester.  He  has  a  degree  from 
Northeastern  University,  as  well  as  from  WPI. 

Henry  Lapa  is  a  maintenance-material  con- 
tiol  officer  for  the  U.S.  Navy  at  the  Naval  Air 
Station  in  Fallon,  NV. 

Donald  Larson  is  a  first-year  graduate  stu- 
dent in  Philadelphia  at  the  Wharton  School, 
University  of  Pennsylvania. 

Alfred  Marotta  is  an  associate  electrical  en- 
gineer at  Aydin  Computer  Systems,  Ft.  Wash- 
ington, PA.  He  joined  the  company  in  April. 

Bharvi  Parikh  is  with  IBM  in  Endicott,  NY. 
He  has  an  MSEE  from  WPI. 

Richard  Sewersky  serves  as  an  industrial  en- 
gineer at  Sikorsky  Aircraft,  Stratford,  CT. 

Ray  Weavill  is  employed  as  an  industrial  en- 
gineer in  AMP  Inc.'s  Machine  Products  Divi- 
sion, Harrisburg,  PA. 

Priscilla  Young,  a  project  engineer  for  Mobil 
Oil  Corporation,  lives  in  Inwood,  NY. 


1980 


MARRIED:  Stephen  E.  de  Laszlo  to  Heather 
J.  Jones  in  Southboro  MA,  on  July  31,  1982. 
She  graduated  from  the  school  of  nursing  at 
the  University  of  Massachusetts.  He  is  pursu- 
ing his  doctorate  in  chemistry  at  Brown  Uni- 
versity. .  .  .  David  A.  Gura  to  Janet  L.  Kuerzi 
recently  in  Harrington  Park,  NJ.  She  gradu- 
ated from  Bergen  Community  College.  He  is 
with  Schlumberger  Well  Services  in  Corpus 
Christi,  TX.  .  .  .  Gilbert  E.  Martin,  Jr.,  and 
Candace  Buckley  on  June  19,  1982,  in  Brain- 
tree,  MA.  They  are  both  with  Stone  &  Web- 
ster, Boston.  .  .  .  Richard  J.  Preliasco  to  Chris- 
tine Peterson  in  Gardner,  MA,  on  June  6,  1982. 
She  has  a  BS  in  biology  from  Fitchburg  State 
College.  He  holds  the  post  of  mechanical  de- 
sign engineer  at  Lockheed,  Mountain  View, 
CA.  .  .  .  Peter  W.  Westcott  and  Mary  P.  Ross 
recently  in  Norwood,  MA.  A  secretary,  she 
graduated  from  Worcester  State  College.  He 
is  an  electrical  engineer. 

Michael  Boulanger,  who  has  completed  the 
manufacturing  management  program  at  GE,  is 
now  a  manufacturing  engineer  for  the  firm  in 
Wilmington,  MA.  He  and  his  wife,  Susan,  have 
two  children  and  live  in  Londonderry,  NH. 

Robert  Cummings  has  accepted  the  post  of 
engineer  at  Firepro  Incorporated  in  Wellesley 
Hills,  MA.  He  will  assist  senior  firm  members 
in  both  fire  defense  programming  for  new  fa- 
cilities and  assembling  facts  in  the  autopsy  of 
major  fire  incidents.  Previously,  Cummings  was 
systems  engineer  at  Fenwal  Incorporated,  Ash- 
land, MA.  An  associate  member  of  the  Society 
of  Fire  Protection  Engineers,  he  is  working  for 
his  MS  degree  in  fire  protection  engineering  at 
WPI's  Center  for  Firesafety  Studies.  His  wife, 
Candyce  Hallock  Cummings,  is  a  first  lieuten- 
ant in  the  U.S.  Air  Force  at  Hanscom  Field. 

James  Drumm  has  received  a  graduate  as- 
sistanceship  at  Clemson  University  in  South 
Carolina,  where  he  is  studying  for  his  MS  in 
chemical  engineering. 

John  Hoyte,  who  is  working  for  his  doctorate 
in  electrical  engineering  and  computer  science 
at  MIT,  was  featured  in  an  article  about  grad- 
uate school  in  the  October  issue  of  The  Black 
Collegian. 

Scott  Mease  works  as  a  civil  engineer  for 
Daniel  Construction  on  the  VEPCO  Project  in 
Warm  Springs,  VA. 

Cathy  Reed  is  now  a  physicist  for  Sanders 
Assoc,  Inc.,  Nashua,  NH. 

Charles  Richards  is  a  research  assistant  at 
the  University  of  Virginia  in  Charlottesville. 

Angelo  Scangas  has  been  promoted  to  main- 
tenance supervisor  at  National  Starch  and 
Chemical  Corporation's  Plainfield,  NJ,  facility. 
He  started  work  at  the  company  in  1980  and 
most  recently  was  a  project  engineer.  He  be- 
longs to  the  American  Institute  of  Plant  En- 
gineers and  the  ACS  and  is  an  associate  mem- 
ber of  the  American  Institute  of  Chemical 
Engineers. 


1981 


MARRIED:  Raymond  G.  Aubert  and  Valerie 
A.  Schenato  on  May  29,  1982,  in  Torrington, 
CT.  She  graduated  from  Torrington  High 
School.  He  works  as  an  application  engineer 


FEBRUARY  1983 


37 


at  the  Torrington  Co.  ...  Timothy  F.  Daley 
to  Patricia  A.  Gouin  in  Worcester  on  July  10. 
1982.  She  has  a  BA  in  social  services  degree 
and  an  MA  in  rehabilitation  counseling,  both 
from  Assumption  College.  Daley  is  a  field  en- 
gineer for  the  Dresser  Atlas  Oilfield  Services 
Group.  Graham.  TX.  .  .  .  Richard  J.  Laf- 
lamme  and  Pamela  Madden  in  Manchester.  NH. 
on  July  31.  1982.  She  attended  Concord  Hos- 
pital School  of  Nursing.  He  is  a  manufacturing 
engineer  with  the  V'ectrol  Division  of  West- 
inghouse  Electric  Corp.  in  Tampa.  FL.  .  .  . 
Charles  Mendes  to  Jo- Anne  M.  Souza  on  June 
26,  1982.  in  North  Dartmouth.  MA.  A  medical 
secretary,  she  attends  Becker  Junior  College. 
He  has  been  studying  for  his  master's  degree 
at  WPI  and  is  an  insulation  engineer  for  GE 
in  Lynn.  .VIA. 

MARRIED:  William  J.  Norwood.  Ill,  and 
Susan  J.  Rys,  '82,  on  June  5.  1982.  in  Taftville. 
CT.  He  serves  as  a  design  engineer  for  Chevron 
in  Richmond.  CA.  .  .  .  Richard  Rempe  and 
Cheryl  Allyn  on  August  14.  1982.  in  West 
Hartford.  CT.  She  graduated  from  Becker.  He 
is  with  Exxon  Corp.  in  Houston.  .  .  .  Roland 
P.  Roberge  and  Elaine  F.  Ritter  in  Shrewsbury, 
.MA.  on  July  10.  1982.  She  graduated  from 
Framingham  State  College  and  Canisius  Col- 
lege and  has  been  teaching  at  Austine  School 
for  the  Deaf.  Brattleboro.  VT.  He  is  with  GE 
in  Waltham.  MA.  .  .  .  Michael  R.  Teague  to 
Alyson  R.  Budeit  in  Orange.  CT.  on  August 
28,  1982.  She  graduated  from  Becker  and  is 
travel  manager  of  Race  Brook  Travels.  He  is 
a  process  supervisor  at  Pfizer  Inc..  Groton.  CT. 

Gary  Almeraris,  who  received  his  MS  from 
WPI.  holds  the  post  of  construction  superin- 
tendent at  MacLean  Grove  &  Co..  Inc.. 
Greenwich.  CT. 

Tim  Gottlieb  has  accepted  a  post  as  staff  en- 
gineer with  McGough  and  Gottlieb  in  Liberty. 
NY.  He  had  been  a  field  engineer  for  Schlum- 
berger  Well  Services  in  Laredo.  TX. 

Francis  Polito,  who  has  been  with  Bell  Lab- 
oratories. North  Andover.  MA.  since  Decem- 
ber of  1981,  is  studying  for  his  MSEE  as  a 
participant  in  Bell  Labs  OYOC  Program  at 
Cornell  University. 

Elliott  Rothchild  is  employed  by  Analogic 
Corp..  Wakefield.  MA. 

Fred  Rucker  serves  as  engineering  manager 
at  AT&T  Long  Lines,  White  Plains.  NY. 

Air  Products  and  Chemicals.  Inc..  has  ap- 
pointed Charles  Wilder  Southwest  regional  sales 
representative  for  their  industrial  chemicals  di- 
vision in  Houston.  TX.  In  his  new  post,  he  will 
have  sales  responsibility  for  the  entire  line  of 
industrial  chemicals  division  products.  With  the 
firm  since  1981.  Wilder  had  been  sales  admin- 
istrator in  the  industrial  chemicals  division. 


1982 


MARRIED:  (iary  Bi.s.son  and  Barbara  A.  Garvey 
in  Worcester  on  July  10.  1982.  She  attended 
Assumption  College  and  he  is  a  mechanical 
engineer  with  Kodak  in  Rochester.  NY.  .  .  . 
Deborah  A.  Chichlowski  and  C  arl  J  Gustafson 
on  September  2.S.  1982.  in  Somerset.  MA.  She 
is  an  industrial  engineer  He  graduated  from 
North  Brookfield  High  School  and  is  a  me- 
chanic. David  (i.  Converse  and  Kimberley 
J.  Ferris  in  Worcester  on  June  27,  1982.  He  is 
an  associate  food  service  equipment  engineer 


with  Friendly  Ice  Cream  Corp..  Wilbraham. 
MA.  .  .  .  Todd  M.  Dean  to  Donna  M.  Martin 

in  Spencer.  MA.  on  August  7.  1982.  She  is  a 
chemical  engineer  and  he  is  an  electrical  en- 
gineer at  Du  Font's  Savannah  River  plant  in 
Aiken.  SC.  .  .  Keith  R.  Gerhard!  to  Deidre 
L.  Loughlin  on  August  21.  1982.  in  Worcester. 
She  is  a  student  at  Assumption  College.  He  is 
an  electrical  engineer  for  Mitre  Corp..  Bed- 
ford. .  .  .  Richard  L.  Harlow  and  Kathleen  A. 
Tierney  in  Canton.  MA.  A  systems  analyst,  she 
graduated  from  Stonehill  College.  He  is  with 
Foxboro  Company. 

MARRIED:  Nils  J.  Jacobson  and  Laura  K. 
Gallerani  in  Pomfret.  CT.  on  June  13.  1982. 
She  graduated  from  Anderson  College  and  is 
employed  at  Hubbard  Regional  Hospital, 
Webster.  MA.  He  is  with  MayGold  Farms, 
Pomfret.  CT.  .  .  .  Robert  S.  Montagna,  Jr.,  to 
Chervil  Ann  Johnson  on  June  27.  1982.  in  Hol- 
liston.  MA.  She  graduated  from  Holliston  High 
School.  He  serves  as  a  field  engineer  for  Daniel 
O'Connell's  Sons,  Holyoke.  MA.  .  .  .  Brian 
D.  Reedstrom  and  Jill  C.  Lamoureux  in  Keene. 
NH.  on  June  19,  1982.  She  has  a  BS  in  nursing 
from  St.  Anselm  College.  He  is  a  project  en- 
gineer for  Tampax.  Inc. .  Palmer.  MA.  .  .  .  Jan 
O.  Sorensen  and  Diane  P.  Grever  in  Medford 
Lakes.  NJ.  on  January  16.  1982.  She  graduated 
from  Worcester  School  of  Craft  and  had  served 
as  head  teller  at  a  bank  in  Medford  Lakes.  He 
is  employed  with  Sorenco  International  in  Co- 
penhagen. Denmark. 

Peter  Abend  is  an  applications  engineer  at 
Beswick  Engineering,  Ipswich.  MA. 

Lynn  Beauregard  has  accepted  a  post  as  an 
associate  product  planner  with  Western  Elec- 
tric in  Burlington.  MA. 

John  Breen  holds  the  post  of  project  con- 
troller for  Manufacturers  Business  Systems,  Inc. , 
Worcester. 

John  Capurso  is  an  industrial  engineer  at  Data 
General  Corporation,  Southboro.  MA. 

Stephen  Carroll  is  now  an  HVAC  engineer 
at  Thompson  Consultants.  Inc.,  Marion,  MA. 

David  Catrone  has  joined  Teradyne  in  Bos- 
ton. 

Robert  Cormier,  Jr.,  is  a  research  staff  mem- 
ber in  the  missiles  division  at  Analytic  Services, 
Inc.,  Arlington,  VA. 

Dermot  Daley  is  employed  by  Moisture  Sys- 
tems Corp..  Hopkinton,  MA. 

John  Dempsey  has  joined  Eastman  Kodak  in 
Rochester.  NY. 

Robert  Gambardella  holds  the  position  of 
professional  development  associate  at  Colt  In- 
dustries-Firearms Division  in  West  Hartford, 
CT. 

John  Kelly  works  as  a  plant  services  engineer 
for  the  Pfizer  Chemical  Division  in  Brooklyn, 
NY. 

Jeffrey  Kern  serves  as  a  systems  designer  for 
Singer-Kearfott  in  Wayne,  NJ. 

Joseph  Mayer  is  a  test  engineer  at  Niagara 
Mohawk  Power  Co.,  Syracuse,  NY. 

Edward  McGuire  has  joined  the  Naval  Un- 
derwater Systems  Center,  Newport,  Rl,  where 
he  IS  a  mechanical  engineer. 

Ann  Noga  is  now  with  GTE  Sylvania  in  Dan- 
vers.  MA. 

Mary  Ann  O'Connor  has  taken  a  post  as  as- 
sociate software  engineer  at  .Softcch.  Inc.,  Wal- 
tham, MA. 

Paul  Oliveira  is  a  construction  manager  for 
O'Brien  A:  (iere  in  Syracuse,  NY. 

Rob  Oshana  has  joined  Texas  Instruments 


in  Dallas,  where  he  is  an  electrical  design  en- 
gineer. 

Sandy  Faille  is  a  mechanical  engineer  at  Koll- 
morgen  Corporation  in  Northampton,  MA. 

Robin  Phillips  has  accepted  a  post  as  assis- 
tant civil  engineer  in  the  Los  Angeles  (CA) 
County  Road  Department. 

Steven  Schenker  is  a  design  engineer  for 
Chevron,  U.S.A..  El  Segundo.  CA. 

Maureen  Sells  serves  as  an  associate  engineer 
for  processor  cooling  at  IBM  in  Endicott.  NY. 

Robert  Sinkiewicz  is  a  field  engineering  rep- 
resentative for  GE  in  Pittsfield.  MA. 

Ingrid  Slembek  has  been  named  a  software 
engineer  in  diagnostic  engineering  at  Digital 
Equipment  Corp..  Marlboro.  MA. 

Timothy  Stanley  is  with  Digital  in  Mavnard. 
MA. 

Matthew  Steele  works  for  Schlumberger  Well 
Service  in  Pleasonton.  TX. 

Gail  Strzepa  has  been  employed  by  the  en- 
gineering department  at  Standard  Oil  of  Cal- 
ifornia in  San  Francisco. 

Ann  Sullivan  is  now  with  Westinghouse  in 
Baltimore.  MD. 

Joel  Swan  serves  as  a  programmer-analyst 
for  Texas  Instruments  in  Lewiston.  TX. 

Tim  Thibodeau  has  been  named  an  intern 
engineer  in  the  Technical  Associate  Program 
at  Emhart  Corporation.  Farmington.  CT.  He 
is  one  of  three  college  graduates  selected  to 
launch  the  new  intern  program,  designed  to 
acquire  and  train  outstanding  engineering 
graduates  for  Emhart's  divisions.  While  at  WPI, 
Tim  worked  on  robots  being  developed  for 
Emhart's  use  under  a  joint  project  sponsored 
by  WPI  and  Emhart. 

John  Tirrell  is  a  designer  at  Stone  &  Webster 
Engineering  Corp.,  Boston. 

William  Townson  is  employed  by  the  Equip- 
ment Group  at  Texas  Instruments  in  Dallas, 
TX. 

Jack  Traver,  Jr.,  has  joined  Traver  Electric 
Motor  Co.,  Waterbury,  CT. 

Joyce  Trela  is  a  chemical  engineer  at  Im- 
proved Laminated  Metals  in  Providence,  RI. 

Edward  Vahan  holds  the  post  of  manage- 
ment information  consultant  at  Arthur  Ander- 
son &  Co.,  Hartford,  CT. 

Robert  Valentine  serves  as  a  component  en- 
gineer at  Data  General,  Westboro,  MA. 

Joe  Vignaly  now  works  for  Martin-Copeland 
Co.,  East  Providence.  RI. 

Henry  Voorhis,  Jr.,  is  employed  as  a  man- 
ufacturing engineer  at  Teradyne  Connection 
Systems  in  Nashua,  NH. 

Elizabeth  Katz  Wadge  serves  as  plant  engi- 
neer for  Detroit  Diesel  Allison,  a  division  of 
General  Motors.  She  is  located  in  Indianapolis. 

Richard  Welch  works  for  Stone  &  Webster 
in  Boston. 

Christopher  Wraight  is  now  an  account  ex- 
ecutive trainee  with  the  Boston  office  of  Amer- 
ican Telephone  &  Telegraph. 

Richard  Wurm  has  joined  New  England 
Telephone  in  Brockton,  MA. 

Karen  Zaicwski  is  employed  by  Digital 
Equipment  Corp.,  Maynard.  MA. 

School  of 

Industrial  Management 

Donal  Sieurin,  '60,  chief  of  engineering  pro- 
posals at  Morgan  Construction,  Worcester,  has 


38        WPI   JOURNAL 


retired  and  is  living  in  East  Dennis,  MA.  .  .  . 
Theodore  Strojny,  '61,  was  recently  named  vice 
president  of  manufacturing  at  Bay  State  Ab- 
rasives, Westboro,  MA.  He  is  responsible  for 
grinding  wheel  operations  in  Westboro,  Ches- 
ter and  North  Manchester,  IN.  Formerly  the 
operations  manager,  he  will  now  head  manu- 
facturing at  Anderson  Operations  in  Worces- 
ter, a  producer  of  power  brushes,  hole  saws 
and  nonwoven  abrasives.  Strojny  attended  Holy 
Cross  and  joined  the  company  in  1950.  .  .  . 
Robert  Kendrick,  '65,  serves  as  plant  manager 
for  Bay  State  Abrasives  in  Chester,  MA. 

Bay  State  Abrasives  has  advanced  Andre 
Chambre,  '72,  to  manufacturing  manager  in 
Westboro.  He  joined  the  company  in  1963  and 
was  appointed  production  superintendent  in 


1978.  He  has  an  MBA  from  BU,  is  a  past  pres- 
ident of  the  Worcester  Chapter  of  AIIE  and 
has  served  as  a  councilor  to  the  Worcester  En- 
gineering Society.  .  .  .  Samuel  Schumacher,  '73, 
has  been  named  director  of  engineering  at  Rus- 
sell Harrington  Cutlery  Co.,  Southbridge,  MA. 
First  with  the  firm  in  1966,  he  was  assigned  to 
special  assignments  in  the  engineering  depart- 
ment. Prior  to  his  promotion  to  production 
manager  in  1975,  he  had  been  general  foreman 
of  forging,  blanking,  heat  treatment  and  the 
machine  grinding  departments  for  three  years. 
Since  1980,  he  has  worked  on  special  assign- 
ments in  engineering.  He  attended  Boston 
University. 

Milton  Steen,  '79,  is  now  district  manager  of 
Massachusetts    Electric    Company's    South- 


COMPLETED  CAREERS 


Kenneth  F.  Burns,  former  crew  coach  at  WPI, 
died  in  Worcester  on  August  4,  1982,  at  the 
age  of  77. 

One  of  the  Worcester  area's  most  accom- 
plished rowing  enthusiasts.  Burns  was  instru- 
mental in  bringing  the  Olympic  crew  trials  to 
Lake  Quinsigamond  in  1932  and  1952  and  in 
making  the  intercollegiate  Eastern  Sprints  re- 
gatta a  regular  event  at  the  lake  for  many  years. 
In  1952,  he  was  a  member  of  the  official  staff 
at  the  Olympic  Games  held  in  Helsinki. 

Burns  captured  the  New  England  novice 
championship  on  Boston's  Charles  River  in  1922. 
He  was  a  longtime  crew  coach  at  Shrewsbury 
(MA)  High  School,  and  his  teams  won  more 
than  eight  national  crowns  and  two  New  Eng- 
land titles.  He  was  a  former  coach  at  St.  John's 
High  School  and  WPI.  In  1962,  he  was  named 
to  the  Helms  Rowing  Hall  of  Fame 

For  23  years  he  was  the  chief  law  enforce- 
ment officer  in  Shrewsbury.  A  past  president 
of  the  Massachusetts  Police  Chiefs'  Associa- 
tion, he  had  also  served  as  a  member  of  the 
state  Division  of  Fisheries  and  Game. 

Burns  received  citations  and  resolutions  from 
the  Massachusetts  State  House  of  Represen- 
tatives and  Senate  in  recognition  of  his  accom- 
plishments in  the  fields  of  boating,  hunting  and 
conservation.  A  native  of  Chelsea,  MA,  he 
graduated  from  North  High  School  in  Worces- 
ter. 

Henry  J.  Potter,  '03,  a  former  safety  engineer 
and  one  of  WPI's  oldest  living  alumni,  passed 
away  on  September  25,  1982,  in  Hyannis,  MA, 
following  a  long  illness.  He  was  101  years  old. 

He  was  born  in  Webster,  MA,  on  February 
22,  1881.  He  graduated  as  a  mechanical  engi- 
neer from  WPI.  He  had  been  affiliated  with 
the  Draper  Co.  and  the  Travelers  Insurance 
Co.  From  1914  to  1949  he  was  with  the  Hart- 
ford Accident  and  Indemnity  Co.  (now  the 
Hartford  Insurance  Group),  from  which  he  re- 
tired as  supervising  engineer. 

A  former  member  of  the  ASME  and  the 
American  Society  of  Safety  Engineers,  he  also 
belonged  to  the  Masons  and  the  Dukes  County 
Historical  Society,  Edgartown.  He  had  been  a 
deacon  in  the  Congregational  Church  and  a 
member  of  the  Methodist  Church. 

Mr.  Potter  served  with  the  Connecticut  State 
National  Guard  in  World  War  I. 


Millard  F.  Clement,  '10,  died  in  the  Holyoke 
(MA)  Soldiers'  Home  on  September  15,  1982. 
He  was  95. 

Born  on  August  28,  1887,  in  Bethlehem,  NH, 
in  1910  he  received  his  BSEE  from  WPI  and 
in  1912  his  professional  EE  degree.  During  his 
career  he  was  with  the  New  York,  New  Haven 
&  Hartford  Railroad,  the  Pennsylvania  Rail- 
road, McGraw  Hill  Publishers  and  Chas.  H. 
Tenney,  Engineers.  From  1924  until  1957,  when 
he  retired  as  vice  president,  he  was  employed 
by  Orange  and  Rockland  Utilities,  Middle- 
town,  NY. 

A  veteran  of  World  War  I,  he  served  aboard 
the  USS  New  York  in  the  North  Sea  and  later 
retired  as  a  lieutenant  commander  in  the  USNR. 
He  obtained  the  32nd  degree  Scottish  rites  as 
a  Mason  while  in  Scotland  in  World  War  I.  He 
received  the  Silver  Beaver  award  for  his  many 
services  to  Scouting.  He  belonged  to  Theta  Chi, 
the  Rotary  Club  and  the  Baptist  Church.  In 
1978,  he  received  the  Gold  Cane  Award  as  the 
oldest  male  resident  of  Granby,  MA. 

Mr.  Clement  had  been  a  member  of  the  New 
York  State  and  National  Society  of  Profes- 
sional Engineers,  the  American  Gas  Associa- 
tion, the  American  Legion  and  the  Middletown 
University  Club. 

Cedric  E.  Thurston,  '15,  died  on  July  29,  1982, 
in  Springfield,  MA.  He  was  89. 

After  studying  electrical  engineering  at  WPI 
and  MIT,  Mr.  Thurston  was  associated  with 
the  coal  industry  in  western  Pennsylvania  and 
West  Virginia  from  1922  to  1959,  when  he  re- 
tired. 

He  was  an  Army  veteran  of  World  War  I,  a 
member  of  ATO  and  a  former  church  deacon. 
A  native  of  Rumford,  ME,  he  was  born  on 
August  22,  1892. 

Oakley  C.  Walker,  '18,  formerly  with  Norton 
Co.,  died  in  St.  Vincent  Hospital,  Worcester, 
on  August  22,  1982,  at  the  age  of  88. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  was  born  on  June 
19,  1894,  and  later  was  a  student  at  WPI.  He 
graduated  from  the  University  of  Michigan 
School  of  Engineering. 

Mr.  Walker  was  with  Norton  Co.,  Worces- 
ter, for  47  years,  retiring  in  1959.  He  belonged 
to  SAE  and  the  Episcopal  Church  and  served 
in  the  Army  Air  Service  in  World  War  I. 


bridge-Palmer  district.  Previously,  he  had  been 
manager  of  the  Attleboro  office  and  district 
manager  of  the  Marlboro  office.  Steen  started 
at  Mass.  Electric  in  1961.  In  1975,  he  was  named 
assistant  director  of  consumer  services  for  New 
England  Electric,  the  parent  company  of  Mass. 
Electric.  He  graduated  from  the  University  of 
Rhode  Island. 


Natural  Science  Program 

Susan  Fontaine,  '82,  a  science  teacher  at  Mar- 
ianapolis  Prep  School,  Thompson,  CT,  is  also 
the  recently  appointed  dean  of  girls.  She  re- 
ceived her  bachelor's  degree  from  Eastern 
Connecticut  State  College. 


Dr.  Frederic  R.  Butler,  '20,  professor  emeritus 
of  chemistry  at  WPI,  died  on  July  15,  1982,  in 
St.  Vincent  Hospital,  Worcester. 

Born  in  Worcester  on  May  26,  1899,  he  re- 
ceived his  MS  from  WPI  in  1922  and  his  PhD 
from  Harvard  in  1925.  He  taught  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Massachusetts  for  two  years  and  served 
on  the  WPI  faculty  from  1927  until  1965.  He 
was  a  former  moderator  of  the  Newman  Club 
at  WPI,  as  well  as  golf  club  coach. 

Dr.  Butler  belonged  to  Sigma  Xi,  Tau  Beta 
Pi,  Phi  Kappa  Theta,  the  Tech  Old-Timers  and 
the  American  Chemical  Society.  He  was  a  for- 
mer member  of  the  Worcester  Planning  Board 
and  a  past  president  of  the  Worcester  Engi- 
neering Society.  He  had  served  on  the  Central 
Massachusetts  Regional  Planning  Commission 
and  the  Comprehensive  Health  Planning  Com- 
mission. 

A  member  of  the  board  of  directors  at  the 
Research  Foundation  of  St.  Vincent  Hospital, 
he  was  also  a  charter  member  and  past  presi- 
dent of  the  Worcester  Chemistry  Club.  An  avid 
tennis  player,  he  belonged  to  the  Worcester 
Tennis  Club. 

Warren  A.  Ellsworth,  '22,  retired  associate 
treasurer  and  assistant  secretary  of  the  Paul 
Revere  Life  Insurance  Co.,  died  at  his  home 
in  Palm  Beach,  FL,  on  October  7,  1982. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester  on  April  30,  1901 , 
and  received  his  BSME  from  WPI.  From  1924 
to  1967,  when  he  retired,  he  was  with  the  Paul 
Revere  Life  Insurance  Company  (Mass.  Pro- 
tective Association,  Inc.),  Worcester.  At  the 
time  of  his  retirement,  he  was  associate  trea- 
surer and  assistant  secretary  of  the  company. 

Besides  serving  as  director  of  his  company 
and  of  the  Paul  Revere  Variable  Annuity  In- 
surance Company,  Mr.  Ellsworth  had  been  a 
past  president  of  the  University  Club  and  past 
commander  of  the  Worcester  County  Power 
Squadron.  He  was  a  trustee  of  the  Worcester 
Natural  History  Society,  the  Hillside  School  of 
Marlboro  and  the  Massachusetts  4-H  Foun- 
dation and  a  past  trustee  of  the  Worcester 
Foundation  for  Experimental  Biology.  In  1972, 
he  received  an  honorary  doctorate  from  As- 
sumption College. 

Mr.  Ellsworth  was  a  member  of  the  Masons, 
the  Shrine,  the  Worcester  Club  and  the  Tat- 
nuck  and  Worcester  country  clubs.  He  was  a 


FEBRUARY  1983        39 


former  member  of  the  President's  Advisory 
Council  at  WPI.  His  son.  Warren  A.  Ellsworth, 
Jr.,  graduated  from  WPI  in  1952. 

Enfried  T.  (Larry)  Larson,  '22,  of  Worcester 
was  killed  in  an  automobile  accident  in  Brook- 
field.  VT.  on  July  24.  while  returning  from  a 
family  reunion.  He  was  81. 

Larry  was  born  on  October  8.  1900.  in 
Worcester.  After  recei\ing  his  BSME  from  WPL 
he  was  a  sales  engineer  at  Norton  Co. .  Worces- 
ter, where  he  worked  for  43  years,  retiring  in 
1965.  From  1952  to  1965.  he  was  an  editor  of 
Grits  and  Grinds,  a  Norton  technical  publica- 
tion. 

Long  active  in  WPI  alumni  affairs.  Larry  was 
chairman  of  the  60th  class  reunion  last  June 
and  had  served  on  the  publications  committee 
and  as  a  former  president  and  program  chair- 
man for  the  Tech  Old-Timers.  He  belonged  to 
Theta  Chi  fraternity,  the  Masons,  Knights 
Templar,  the  American  Society  of  Tool  and 
Manufacturing  Engineers,  the  Massachusetts 
Industrial  Editors  Association  and  the  Society 
of  Professional  Engineers.  He  was  a  member 
of  the  Worcester  County  Mechanics  Associa- 
tion, the  Swedish  Charitable  Association.  Trin- 
ity Lutheran  Church  and  the  Norton  Co.  25- 
Year  Club. 

Stanley  F.  Johnson,  '26,  of  Oakland.  CA,  died 
on  July  15.  1982.  following  several  strokes  and 
a  heart  attack.  He  was  79  years  old. 

Mr.  Johnson  graduated  as  a  civil  engineer 
from  WPI.  He  had  been  a  consultant  for  In- 
dustrial Risk  Insurers.  During  World  War  II. 
his  specialty  was  fire  safety. 

After  retiring  14  years  ago.  he  went  to  Mer- 
ritl  College  and  the  University  of  California. 
where  he  studied  computer  systems.  Later  he 
designed  fire-extinguishing  systems  for  nuclear 
plants  and  nuclear-powered  vessels. 

Mr.  Johnson  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappa, 
Skull,  the  Poly  Club,  the  Masons,  the  May- 
flower Society,  the  Sons  of  the  American  Rev- 
olution, the  Massachusetts  Historic  and  Ge- 
nealogical Society  and  several  professional 
engineering  groups.  Born  in  Worcester,  he  was 
related  to  three  of  the  first  colonial  governors 
and  to  Francis  Cook,  who  came  to  Massachu- 
setts on  the  Mayflower. 

Frank  C.  Taylor,  '28,  passed  away  suddenly 
on  September  6.  1982.  in  Camden,  NJ. 

A  native  of  West  Sprmgficld.  MA.  he  was 
born  on  November  27.  1904.  He  graduated  as 
an  electrical  engmccr  and  was  with  Mutual 
Benefit  Life  Insurance  Co.,  Newark,  for  26 
years  before  retiring  in  1976  as  assistant  sec- 
retary-treasurer. 

Mr.  Taylor  was  a  past  president  and  trustee 
of  the  West  Essex  First  Aid  Squad  and  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Mortgage  Bankers  Association  of 
Newark  and  Phi  Sigma  Kappa 

Eilman  R.  .Smith,  '30,  a  longtime  manager  of 
Union  .Mills  Paper  .Manufacturing  Co.,  died  in 
Hyannis,  MA,  on  August  8.  1982. 

A  native  of  Norwood.  MA,  he  was  born  on 
October  5,  1907.  Graduating  as  a  mechanical 
engineer,  he  belonged  to  Ihcta  Chi  From  \9^^ 
to  1941,  he  was  with  Hollingsworth  &  Vose 
Co.  He  joined  Union  Mills  of  New  Hope,  PA. 
in  1941,  staving  with  the  firm  until  he  retired 
m  1970. 

He  had  served  as  a  member  of  his  local  board 


of  education,  as  a  past  master  of  a  Masonic 
lodge  and  as  an  elder  of  the  Presbyterian  Church. 
Later,  he  was  a  member  of  the  administrative 
board,  finance  committee  and  choir  of  the 
Eastham  United  .Methodist  Church. 

He  belonged  to  the  Technical  Association  of 
the  Pulp  and  Paper  Industry  and  to  the  Paper 
Industry  Management  Association. 

Allan  F.  Hardy,  Jr.,  '35,  class  vice  president 
and  a  retired  vice  president  and  director  of 
Norton  Co..  Worcester,  died  on  July  19.  1982. 
at  his  home  in  Chatham.  MA.  at  the  age  of  69. 

In  1935,  Mr.  Hardy  began  his  career  at  Nor- 
ton in  the  manufacturing  control  department. 
Later,  after  serving  as  plants  engineer,  he  was 
named  general  manager  of  the  Norton  Refrac- 
tories Division  in  1961.  He  was  elected  vice 
president  in  1962  and  director  of  Norton  Co. 
in  1963.  In  1965,  he  became  executive  vice 
president  and  director  of  National  Research 
Corp..  Newton,  a  Norton  subsidiary.  Subse- 
quently, he  was  named  president. 

Associated  with  the  Guardian  National  In- 
spection and  Warantee  Corp.  of  Orleans.  Mr. 
Hardy,  a  professional  engineer,  was  also  an 
executive  vice  president  of  the  San-Vel  Con- 
crete Co.  of  Littleton  from  1972  to  1975.  He 
had  been  president  of  Hardy  Contractors  of 
Princeton  and  of  Allan  Hardy  Assoc.  Weston. 

He  received  his  BS  in  chemistry  and  then  did 
postgraduate  work  at  the  Harvard  Graduate 
School  of  Business  and  the  University  of  Iowa. 
He  belonged  to  Theta  Chi  and  the  Congrega- 
tional Church. 

Mr.  Hardy  was  active  in  WPI  affairs,  serving 
as  a  former  vice  president  of  the  Alumni  As- 
sociation, as  an  Alumni  Council  representative 
from  Worcester,  as  a  Fund  Board  member  and 
as  vice  president  of  the  WPI  Executive  Com- 
mittee. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  had  held  leadership 
roles  with  Norton  Machines,  Ltd..  the  Mas- 
sachusetts Taxpayers  Association.  Holden  Dis- 
trict Hospital.  Worcester  Community  Chest, 
the  Kiwanis  Club,  the  Red  Cross  and  the  Greater 
Boston  Chamber  of  Commerce.  He  and  his 
wife  co-founded  the  New-Comers  of  Chatham. 

John  J.  Molloy,  '35,  died  of  cancer  on  August 
13,  1982,  at  his  home  in  Tucson,  AZ.  He  was 
born  in  Worcester  on  January  27,  1915. 

A  graduate  civil  engineer,  he  retired  in  De- 
cember 1973  after  37  years  with  the  U.S.  Geo- 
logical Survey.  His  career  with  the  agency  took 
him  to  several  states,  culminating  with  a  post 
as  district  chief  of  the  Columbus,  OH.  office. 

During  World  War  II,  he  was  a  U.S.  Army 
officer  stationed  in  the  South  Pacific;  he  retired 
as  a  colonel  in  the  U.S.  Army  Reserve  in  1968. 

A  longtime  member  of  the  ASCE,  he  was  a 
former  president  for  two  different  sections.  John 
also  belonged  to  the  New  York  Stale  Society 
of  Professional  Engineers,  the  American  Le- 
gion and  Phi  Kappa  Theta. 

George  H.  Perry,  '35,  a  former  manager  of 
finance  for  Warner  &  Swasey  Co.,  Grinding 
Machine  Division,  Worcester,  died  in  Cape  Cod 
Regency  Nursing  Home,  Ccnterville,  MA.  on 
September  12,  1982.  He  was  69. 

He  graduated  from  WPIs  School  of  Indus- 
trial Management  in  1956  and  also  graduated 
from  Harvard  University  School  ol  Industrial 
Management  and  New  England  School  of  Ac- 
counting. From  1935  to  1941  he  worked  for  the 


City  of  Worcester.  In  1941  he  joined  Norton 
Co.,  where  he  served  as  a  supervisor.  He  was 
named  manager  of  finance  for  Warner  &  Swa- 
sey Co.,  Grinding  Machine  Division  in  1972. 
Mr.  Perry  was  a  master  sergeant  in  the  Army 
Corps  of  Engineers  in  World  War  II.  He  was 
a  past  director  of  the  New  England  Chapter  of 
the  National  Association  of  Accountants  and 
a  past  president,  vice  president  and  treasurer 
of  the  association's  Worcester  chapter.  He  had 
been  district  director  of  the  New  England  Dis- 
trict Collie  Club  of  America.  Inc. ,  president  of 
the  Associated  Collie  Club  of  Northeastern 
United  States,  president  of  Wachusett  Kennel 
Club,  Inc.,  a  licensed  judge  for  the  American 
Kennel  Club  and  a  member  of  Cape  Cod  Ken- 
nel Club.  He  belonged  to  the  Congregational 
Church  and  SAE. 

Roy  O.  Swenson,  '35,  a  retired  senior  engineer 
from  Norton  Co.,  Worcester,  died  on  July  31, 
1982.  at  his  home  in  Holden,  MA. 

He  was  born  on  August  31,  1912,  in  Worces- 
ter. Graduated  as  a  mechanical  engineer,  dur- 
ing his  career  he  was  with  Alden  Hydraulic 
Laboratory  and  Cragin  &  Wilkins.  Formerly 
he  owned  and  operated  Swenson  Engineering. 
He  was  with  Norton  Co.  for  40  years. 

Mr.  Swenson  belonged  to  ATO,  the  Poly 
Club  and  the  Tech  Old-Timers.  as  well  as  the 
Worcester  Chemists  Club,  the  Masons,  the 
Eastern  Star,  the  Commandery  and  the  Mas- 
sachusetts Society  of  Professional  Engineers. 
He  was  an  avid  sportsman  and  had  traveled 
throughout  South  Africa  on  safari,  as  well  as 
on  Norton  Co.  business.  He  had  also  toured 
Scandinavia. 

Frederick  A.  Anderson,  '42,  a  professor  of  me- 
chanical engineering  at  WPI  for  many  years, 
died  in  Worcester  on  October  11,  1982. 

He  graduated  as  a  mechanical  engineer  and 
was  appointed  an  instructor  at  WPI,  beginning 
a  40-year  teaching  career.  In  1953,  he  received 
his  MSME  and  in  1963  he  was  appointed  a  full 
professor.  In  1974,  he  taught  for  a  term  at  the 
City  University  of  London  under  WPI's  ex- 
change program  with  that  university. 

In  1956,  Professor  Anderson  became  the  first 
coordinator  of  the  Evening  Graduate  Study 
Program,  a  post  he  held  until  he  served  on  the 
faculty  of  the  U.S.  Naval  Academy  during  a 
leave  of  absence  in  1959  and  1960.  He  did  sum- 
mer work  at  Cornell.  Purdue,  the  University 
of  Colorado,  Stanford,  MIT  and  Northeastern. 

A  native  of  Worcester,  he  was  born  on  March 
3,  1920.  He  belonged  to  the  Wesley  Methodist 
Church,  where  he  was  a  teacher  in  the  Home 
Planners  Class.  A  registered  professional  en- 
gineer in  Massachu.setts,  he  was  also  a  member 
of  Sigma  Xi,  the  American  Society  for  Engi- 
neering Education,  the  American  Society  for 
Testing  Materials  and  the  ASME. 

In  World  War  11,  he  served  with  the  U.S. 
Navy  and  was  captain  of  a  minesweeper  in  the 
Pacific.  He  joined  the  Naval  Reserve  after  the 
war,  later  retiring  as  a  lieutenant  commander. 

David  P.  Gracie,  '74,  who  graduated  with  a 
degree  in  business,  died  in  San  Francisco,  CA, 
on  September  10.  1982,  following  a  brief  ill- 
ness. He  was  M)  years  old. 

At  the  time  of  his  death,  he  was  chief  systems 
programmer  and  analyst  for  the  Levi  Strauss 
Co.  A  native  of  New  Bedford.  MA,  he  be- 
longed to  AEP  and  the  Baptist  Church. 


40        WPI  JOURNAL 


HOMECOMING  ^82: 

Oh,  how  they  loved  it! 

Count  Homecoming  '82  as  one  of  the  best  ever. 
From  turnout  to  festivities  to  weather, 
by  all  accounts  '82  was  a  year  WPI  homecomers 
will  remember  with  the  fondest  of  memories. 
Hope  to  see  you  next  year! 


Clockwise  from  top  right.  L  to  R:  Ray 
Forkey,  '40,  Bob  Martin,  '39,  and  Ken 
Blaisdell,  '40,  pow-wow  over  days  past, 
present  and  future.  Soph  quarterback 
John  Scacciotti  of  Maynard  led  the  Engi- 
neers' romp  over  Coast  Guard.  That's 
Prof.  Al  Ferron,  '57,  with  wife  Lil  and 
hungry  friends  at  their  well-appointed 
tailgate  party.  'Winners  (?)  of  the  annual 
Rope  Pull.  Michael  ('78)  and  Laurel 
Wiljanen  ('79)  Neece  with  Dean  John 
VanAlstyne. 


Walter  L.  Abel,  '39,  (R)  confers  with  fellow  Emhart  Corporation  robotics 
specialist  Alan  Drane  at  WPI's  Manufacturing  Engineering  Applications 
Center.  The  stor>'  on  robotics  at  WPI  starts  on  page  4. 


ICESTER  PJLYTEIhNIC  ' 


m 


■-V— . 


^    M     I 


-i.. 


Poly  Club  Installs 

WPI  Athletic  Hall  of  Fame 

In  late  January.  Poly  Club  and  WPI  of- 
ficials put  the  finishing  touches  on  an  idea 
which  has  been  nearly  ten  years  in  the 
making.  The  goal?  To  formally  recognize 
outstanding  individuals  who  have  be- 
stowed honor  and  recognition  upon  them- 
selves and  the  college  as  a  result  of  their 
involvement  in  WPI  athletics.  The  idea? 
WPI's  brand-new  Athletic  Hall  of  Fame, 
which  is  now  prepared  to  accept  nomi- 
nations for  its  first  members. 

Selection  of  members  will  be  based  on 
their  athletic  ability,  integrity,  sportsman- 
ship and  character,  with  special  emphasis 
on  the  athlete's  contribution  to  WPI  and 
to  the  teams  on  which  he  or  she  played. 
In  addition,  membership  may  also  be  of- 
fered to  non-athletes  who  have  provided 
distinguished  service  to  WPI  athletics — 
for  example,  coaches,  staff,  faculty,  and 
alumni. 

Know  of  a  deserving  member  of  the 
WPI  community — now  or  from  the  past? 
Why  not  take  a  few  minutes  to  complete 
the  nomination  form.  Please  provide  as 
much  information  as  you  can.  The  nom- 
inee need  not  be  living  to  be  eligible,  nor 
must  he  or  she  be  a  WPI  graduate.  Just 
one  condition:  Athletes  are  eligible  for 
nomination  no  sooner  than  five  years  after 
their  class  graduates,  while  coaches,  staff, 
faculty,  etc..  are  eligible  at  any  time. 

Above  left:  Rich  Testa.  'H4.  of  Wayland, 
MA.  I9H2-H3  New  England  Champion  at 
I IH  pounds.  WPI  f^rapplcrs  finished  the 
regular  season  16-2-1 .  rankinfi  I6th  in 
the  nation.  The  team  placed  third  in  the 
New  England  College  Conference  Wres- 
tling Association  championships. 

Above  right:  Kim  Fay.  'H6.  of  Na- 
shua, NH.  Women  s  basketball  compiled 
a  20-5  .season  and  won  the  Eastern  Col- 
legiate Athletic  Conference  North  Wom- 
en's Division  III  champufnship.  Quite  a 
showing  all  around! 


Nomination  Fonn 

Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute — Poly  Club 

Athletic  Hall  of  Fame 


Nominee. 


Address. 


Home  phone. 


Occupation 

Community  activities 

Year  graduated  (if  applicable) 

Sport(s)  played  (if  applicable) 

Athletic  accomplishments,  honors  (WPI,  regional,  national). 


Business  phone. 


Other  honors  received. 


List  any  available  statistics  on  nominee's  performance  while  at  WPI. 


Please  comment  on  why  you  feel  this  nominee  should  be  placed  in  WPI's  Hall  of 
Fame.  Indicate  the  intangibles;  the  information  that  would  not  be  found  in  the  record 
books  or  on  statistic  sheets.  (Use  extra  sheets  if  necessary.) 


Submitted  by 


Name 


Address 


Those  nominated  who  arc  not  elected  are  eligible  in  any  ensuing  years.    The  first  ilall  of  lame  I^inner  is 
scheduled  lor  Homecoming  Day,  October  1.  l'W3 

Mail  completed  form  to:  Poly  Club.  Worcester  Polytcclinic  Institute,  Athletic 
Department,  Worcester,  MA  01609     ATTN:  Hall  of  Fame  Committee 


WPI  Journal 

WORCESTER  POLYTECHNIC  ^INSTITUTE 


VOLUME  86,  NUMBER  4 


staff  of  The  WPI  Journal 

Editor,  Kenneth  L.  McDonnell 
Alumni  Information  Editor,  Ruth  S.  Trask 


Alumni  Pubhcations  Committee:  Donald  E. 
Ross,  '54,  chair;  Robert  C.  Gosling,  '68;  Sam- 
uel W.  Mencow,  '37;  Roger  W.  Miles,  '69; 
Stanley  P.  Negus,  Jr.,  '54;  Judith  Nitsch,  '75. 

The  WPI  Journal  (ISSN  0148-6128)  is  pub- 
Ushed  quarterly  for  the  WPI  Alumni  Associ- 
ation by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  in  co- 
operation with  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consor- 
tium, with  editorial  offices  at  the  Johns  Hop- 
kins University,  Baltimore,  MD  21218.  Pages 
I-XVI  are  pubUshed  for  the  Alumni  Magazine 
Consortium  (Frankhn  and  Marshall  College, 
Hartwick  College,  Johns  Hopkins  University, 
Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute)  and  appear  in  the  re- 
spective alumni  magazines  of  those  institu- 
tions. Second  class  postage  paid  at  Worcester, 
MA,  and  additional  mailing  offices.  Pages  1- 
8,  25-32  ©  1983,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute. Pages  I-XVI  ©  1983,  Johns  Hopkins  Uni- 
versity. 

Staff  of  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consortium: 

Editor,  Elise  Hancock;  Business  Manager, 
Robert  Hewes;  Production  Coordinator,  Wendy 
Williams-Hauck;  Managing  Editor,  Mary  Ruth 
Yoe;  Designer,  Allen  Carroll;  Magazine  Fel- 
low, Pat  Rushin;  Senior  Writer,  Robert  Kanigel; 
Editorial  Assistant,  Edward  C.  Ernst. 

Advisory  Board  for  the  Alumni  Magazine  Con- 
sortium: Frankhn  and  Marshall  College,  John 
Synodinos  and  Judy  Durand;  Hartwick  Col- 
lege, Philip  Benoit  and  Merrilee  Gomillion; 
Johns  Hopkins  University,  B.  J.  Norris  and 
Elise  Hancock;  Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute, Lynn  Holley  and  Robert  M.  Whitaker; 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,  Thomas  J. 
Denney  and  Kenneth  L.  McDonnell. 

Acknowledgments:  Typesetting,  Foto  Typeset- 
ters, Inc.;  Printing,  John  D.  Lucas  Printing 
Company;  Maihng,  Circular  Advertising  Com- 
pany. 

Diverse  views  on  subjects  of  public  interest  are 
presented  in  the  magazine.  TTiese  views  do  not 
necessarily  reflect  the  opinions  of  the  editors 
or  official  policies  of  WPI.  Address  corre- 
spondence to  the  Editor,  The  WPI  Journal, 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester,  MA 
01609.  Telephone  (617)  793-5609.  Postmaster: 
If  undeliverable  please  send  form  3579  to  the 
'address  above.  Do  not  return  publication. 


CONTENTS 


APRIL  1983 


2  The  Many  Sides  of  Financing 
College  Costs — with  Wisdom 

Practical,  tax-favored,  and  IRS-proof  ways 
to  pay  for  college,  now  and  in  the  future. 
Alexander  A.  Bove,  Jr. 

I  A  Musical  Menagerie 

Toads  in  tights  and  tutus,  'gators 
in  powdered  wigs,  and  a  sheep  in 
Madame  Butterfly's  clothing. 
Clinton  Arrowood 

VI   Suspension  Story 

A  century  after  it  was  built, 
the  Brooklyn  Bridge  still  stands  as  a 
monument  to  American  engineering. 
Robert  Kanigel 

25  Jackson  L.  Durkee,  '43: 
His  Cables  Bridge  the  World 

A  WPI-trained  structural  engineer 
has  improved  upon  bridge  design. 
Kenneth  L.  McDonnell 

Departments 

Feedback        Inside  back  cover 
Alumni  Notes        26 


Page  25 


Cover:  The  Brooklyn  Bridge.  Photograph  by  William  Denison. 


APRIL  1983        1 


The  Many  Sides  of 
Financing  College  Costs 
with  Wisdom 


For  parents  of  college-bound  children,  meeting  skyrocketing  costs 
can  be  tough.  A  leading  tax  expert  offers  no-nonsense, 
ambitious  strategies  for  financing  college,  reducing  your  taxes — and 
keeping  the  IRS  off  your  back. 


by  Alexander  A.  Bove,  Jr. 


As  we  go  to  press.  President  Reagan  has 
just  proposed  to  Congress  legislation  to 
establish  Educational  Savings  Accounts 
(ESAs).  Similar  to  Individual  Retirement 
Accounts  (IRAs)  in  terms  of  their  tax 
benefits,  ESAs  are  designed  to  encourage 
saving  and  thus  to  help  savers  finance 
their  children's  college  education. 

But  while  Mr.  Reagan's  idea  is  a  step 
in  the  right  direction,  many  educational 
groups  believe  that  the  proposed  legisla- 
tion would  stop  far  short  of  offering  real 
relief  to  weary  taxpayers.  For  example, 
the  National  Association  of  Independent 
Colleges  and  Universities  (NAICU)  and 
others  support  the  concept  behind  the 
Reagan  bill,  but  have  publicly  called  for 
greater  flexibility  and  additional  tax  ben- 
efits. 

Our  space  does  not  allow  a  detailed 
discussion  of  this  issue.  But  one  thing  is 
certain:  the  ESA  proposal  will  be  de- 
bated in  this  session  of  Congress.  More- 
over, in  some  form,  it  stands  a  good 
chance  of  passage.  And,  to  he  sure,  the 
popular  press  will  give  full  coverage  to 
the  ongoing,  urgent  debate  over  tax-fa- 
vored fmancmg  of  college  costs.  We  urge 
you  to  remain  abreast  of  developments 
as  they  occur. 

Tax -favored  financing  of  college  costs, 
like  any  financial  strategy,  can  be  techni- 
cally complex  and  may  present  pitfalls 
for  the  unwary.  We  advise  the  reader  to 
consult  his  or  her  professional  tax  ad- 
visor before  engaging  m  any  aggressive 
financial  maneuver. 


Quotations  are  wonderful  things. 
They  can  convey  the  wit  and  wis- 
dom of  the  ages  in  a  sentence  or 
two,  and  some  Hve  on  virtually  forever. 
With  any  piece  of  wit  or  wisdom,  how- 
ever, there  can  be  many  sides.  For  ex 
ample,  someone  once  said:  "Education  is 
what  you  have  left  over  after  you've 
learned."  Here's  my  definition: 

"Education  is  a  financial  transfusion 
from  you,  the  parent,  to  the  college,  where 
practically  nothing  is  left  over  except  the 
hope  that  your  child  will  appreciate  the 
sacrifices  you  made  and  will  use  the  ed- 
ucation you  provided." 

But  quotations  don't  pay  the  bills,  and 
in  this  case,  the  bills  can  have  harmful 
effects.  Soaring  educational  costs  are  now 
a  given.  About  the  only  thing  we  can  do, 
aside  from  scholarships,  grants  and  edu- 
cational loans — all  of  which  are  becoming 
more  and  more  difficult  to  obtain — is  to 
optimize  the  transfusion  so  the  actual  cost 
to  us  (parents)  is  as  little  as  possible. 

In  other  words,  pay  the  educational  costs 
with  after-tax  dollars.  Failure  to  do  this 
can  as  much  as  double  the  cost,  depending 
on  your  tax  bracket. 

Simply  illustrated,  tuition  payments  are 
not  deductible,  so  a  parent  in  the  5()-per- 
cent  tax  bracket  must  "use"  $1(),(){)()  of 
earnings  to  make  a  $5 ,()()()  tuition  pay- 
ment. The  trick  is  to  let  someone  else — 
the  child — produce  the  funds  in  his  own, 
lower  tax  bracket,  so  the  overall  cost  is 
less.  There  are  several  ways  to  do  this. 

The   approach   to   tax-favored   educa- 


tional costs  can  be  divided  into  two  basic 
taxpayer  groups:  those  who  plan  and  the 
rest  of  us.  If  you  fall  into  the  first  category 
and  you  are  planning  now  for  the  edu- 
cation of  children  who  will  be  going  to 
college  five,  10  or  15  years  from  now, 
congratulations.  (You  probably  also  have 
perfect  teeth  and  always  file  your  tax  re- 
turns on  time.)  In  this  case,  you  can  con- 
sider such  things  as  yearly  gifts  (under  the 
Uniform  Gifts  to  Minors  Act),  "10-year" 
or  short-term  trusts,  interest-free  loans, 
gifts  and  lease-back  arrangements  and 
other  maneuvers.  In  general,  the  more 
time  you  have  to  accumulate  funds  in  a 
lower  tax  bracket,  the  better  off  you  (and 
the  child)  obviously  will  be.  If  your  child 
(or  any  other  college  candidate  under  your 
charge)  needs  the  funds  now,  it  is  a  bit 
more  difficult — but  not  impossible.  Let's 
start  with  minors. 

Under  the  Uniform  Gifts  to  Minors  Act, 
gifts  may  be  made  tax-free  (not  tax-de- 
ductible) to  anyone  under  the  age  of  ma- 
jority (18  in  Massachusetts)  in  the  name 
of  a  custodian  for  the  minor.  During  the 
period  of  minority,  all  income  earned  in 
the  account  will  be  taxed  to  the  minor  (no 
federal  tax  unless  income  exceeds  $1,000), 
and  the  accumulated  amount  may  then  be 
used  for  college  after  the  minor  reaches 
the  age  of  majority,  with  no  tax  conse- 
quences to  the  parent  or  other  donor. 

The  account  can  be  funded  with  cash 
gifts  or  gifts  of  securities.  If  the  securities 
have  appreciated,  the  capital  gain  will  be 
taxed  to  the  minor. 


WPl   JOURNAL 


For  gift- tax  purposes,  each  year  you  may 
give  $10,000  and  if  you  have  a  spouse  you 
(or  she)  may  give  an  additional  $10,000 
per  child  (or  other  donee).  If  the  gifts  are 
to  be  presently  used  for  tuition  or  other 
college  costs,  you  may  exceed  the  $10,000. 
Even  if  you  do  exceed  the  $10,000  tax- 
free  gift  limitation  for  things  other  than 
tuition,  the  sky  will  not  fall.  You  then 
merely  begin  to  use  up  a  part  of  the  al- 
lowable gift-tax  credit. 

The  problem  or  potential  risk  with  the 
Gifts  to  Minors  Act  is  that  you  have  no 
control  over  the  use  of  the  money.  Once 
the  child  is  an  adult,  he  has  a  right  to  use 
the  funds  any  way  he  likes.  Of  course  you 
could  remind  him  of  the  old  quotation: 
"spare  the  rod.  ..." 

Clifford  Trust 
Helps  You  Save 

The  Uniform  Gifts  to  Minors  Act  is  a  rel- 
atively easy  way  to  make  gifts  to  children 
for  the  purpose  of  ultimately  funding  a 
college  education  .  .  .  easy,  that  is,  in  the 
sense  that  the  transfer  of  money  or  prop- 
erty to  the  child  is  relatively  uncompli- 
cated and  you  avoid  such  "costly"  things 
as  lawyers'  fees. 

The  problem,  however,  with  the  Gifts 
to  Minors  Act  is  that  not  everyone  can 
afford  to  give  away  after-tax-dollars  of 
$3,000  (now  up  to  $10,000)  per  child  p^r 
year. 

Among  the  many  alternatives  we  will 
discuss  is  a  method  which,  although  a  bit 
more  complicated,  allows  you  to  give  up 
only  the  use  of  the  money  or  property  to 
the  child,  so  that  after  this  period  of  use 
(it  must  be  for  at  least  10  years),  the  prop- 
erty is  returned  to  you.  This  is  done  through 
a  trust,  often  called  a  Clifford  trust,  a  short- 
term  trust,  a  10-year  trust  or  a  reversion- 
ary trust. 

During  this  period  of  at  least  10  years, 
all  of  the  income  from  the  property  you 
have  placed  in  your  Clifford  trust  will  be 
taxed  either  to  the  trust  or  to  the  child, 
depending  upon  whether  it  is  held  in  the 
trust  or  paid  out  to  the  child,  respectively. 
This  can  result  in  substantial  income-tax 
savings,  depending,  of  course,  on  the 
property  transferred  and  the  amount  of 
income  generated.  For  example,  say  that 
Dad  transfers  500  shares  of  Electric  Light 
&  Power  Co.  stock  to  a  Clifford  trust  for 
daughter,  who  is  age  8.  The  stock  is  selling 
for  $45  per  share  and  pays  a  dividend  of 
$6  per  share,  or  $3,000  per  year  on  the 
500  shares. 


Tuition  pays,  in  part, 
for  faculty  excel' 
lence  in  teaching  and 
research,  advanced 
laboratory  equip- 
ment and  up-to-date 
project  facilities. 


In  Dad's  tax  bracket,  he  would  pay  a 
federal  tax  of  $1,500  on  these  dividends, 
but  in  daughter's  lower  bracket,  a  tax  of 
only  $280  will  be  paid.  Over  the  10-year 
period.  Dad  will  save  about  $12,000  in 
taxes,  not  counting  the  compound  interest 
on  the  savings.  After  the  10  years,  daugh- 
ter will  have  nearly  $20,000  to  use  for  her 
college  education  and  Dad  can  then  get 
his  stock  back,  with  no  adverse  tax  con- 
sequences to  him. 

There  are  some  points  that  must  be 
considered  with  the  Clifford  trust  to  qual- 
ify for  the  desired  tax  savings.  For  one, 
the  trust  must  last  for  at  least  10  years 
after  the  transfer  of  property  to  it,  and 
generally  it  may  not  be  changed  or  ter- 
minated during  this  period. 

Further,  if  any  of  the  trust  property  is 
sold  at  a  gain  during  the  10-year  period, 
the  person  creating  the  trust  (the  grantor) 
will  be  taxed  on  the  gain  even  though  he 
does  not,  at  that  point,  have  the  property 
or  the  proceeds. 

Finally,  the  transfer  of  property  to  this 
type  of  trust  constitutes  a  gift  (even  though 


the  property  will  eventually  return  to  the 
grantor).  Therefore,  consideration  must 
be  given  to  the  amount  placed  in  the  trust. 

For  gift- tax  purposes,  as  a  rule  of  thumb 
only,  the  amount  of  the  gift  on  a  transfer 
to  a  Clifford  trust  will  be  about  44  percent 
of  the  value  of  the  property  transferred. 
In  our  example  above.  Dad  transferred 
$22,500  of  stock,  and  44  percent  of  this 
would  be  about  $9,900.  Since  this  is  less 
than  the  allowable  annual  tax-free  gift  of 
$10,000,  Dad  will  have  no  gift-tax  prob- 
lems. Of  course,  there  are  many  other 
technical  requirements  that  your  Clifford 
trust  must  meet,  but  these  are  the  high- 
lights. 

One  of  the  primary  advantages  of  the 
Clifford  trust  is  that  income  from  specific 
property  other  than  cash  can  be  shifted 
to  the  child  without  selling  or  giving  away 
the  property.  There  is  no  other  way  this 
can  be  accomplished,  and  to  a  parent  who 
cannot  afford  to  give  the  underlying  prop- 
erty away,  the  Clifford  trust  can  be  a  tax- 
wise  way  of  producing  funds  for  educa- 
tion. 


APRIL  1983 


Gift'Leaseback 
Not  for  Everyone 

When  some  payment  or  expense  is  con- 
verted to  a  tax  deduction,  it  can  actually 
reduce  the  cost,  since  the  effect  of  the  tax 
deduction  is  to  cause  Uncle  Sam  to  bear 
a  part  of  the  expense. 

Educational  expenses  are  no  exception. 
There  are  some  maneuvers  which  can  have 
the  indirect  effect  of  rendering  these  costs 
tax-deductible.  One  of  them  is  the  "gift- 
leaseback"  arrangement. 

This  arrangement  does  not  apply  to 
everyone.  Generally,  it  is  limited  to  par- 
ents (or  other  benefactors)  who  use  some 
form  of  property  such  as  real  estate  or 
equipment  in  a  business  or  profession.  But 
given  the  huge  number  of  small  businesses 
and  professional  practices,  it  happens  to 
be  a  very  popular  approach  to  financing 
children's  college  education  on  a  tax- 
favored  basis. 

It  works  this  way.  The  businessman  or 
professional  (the  grantor)  transfers  his 
business  real  estate  or  equipment  to  an 
irrevocable  trust  for  the  benefit  of  his  chil- 
dren. Very  often,  a  Clifford  trust  is  used. 
After  the  property  is  transferred  to  the 
trust,  the  trustee  then  leases  the  property 
back  to  the  grantor  so  he  can  use  it  in  his 
business  or  professional  practice. 

TTie  trust  realizes  income  from  the  rental 
payments,  and  a  tax  is  paid  either  at  the 
trust  tax  bracket  (if  it  is  not  paid  out  to 
the  children)  or  at  the  children's  tax 
bracket,  if  the  funds  are  paid  out  to  them 
or  for  their  benefit  (for  instance,  college 
tuition  and  expenses).  Meanwhile,  the 
grantor  gets  a  tax  deduction  for  the  rental 
payments  to  the  trust. 

For  example.  Dr.  Forcible  Pullemout 
transfers  the  equipment  in  his  dental  prac- 
tice to  a  Clifford  trust  for  the  benefit  of 
his  two  children,  ages  19  and  18.  The 
trustee  is  required  to  pay  all  the  net  in- 
come out  to  the  children  each  year.  After 
the  transfer,  the  trustee  leases  the  equip- 
ment to  Dr.  Pullemout  for  $6, (XX)  per  year, 
which  in  turn  is  used  for  the  children's 
educations. 

Simply  stated,  the  doctor  gets  a  $6,000 
deduction,  and  the  children  each  pay  taxes 
on  S3,fXX),  or  about  $300.  For  the  two 
children,  the  doctor  would  save  about 
$2.4(K)  per  year  in  federal  income  taxes. 
In  other  words,  through  this  arrange- 
ment, the  government  is  contributing  a 
clean  $2,4(XJ  each  year  toward  the  chil- 
dren's educations. 

Of  course,  there  are  some  highly  tech- 


WPl  JOURNAL 


nical  considerations  with  this  arrange- 
ment which  could  affect  the  tax  conse- 
quences in  either  direction.  For  example, 
because  of  the  abihty  to  depreciate  busi- 
ness property,  it  could  be  that  the  trust 
or  the  children  would  pay  httle  or  no  tax 
on  the  rental  income.  On  the  other  hand, 
if  the  business  property  is  subject  to  a 
mortgage  on  which  the  grantor  is  Hable, 
some  or  all  of  the  tax  deductions  could 
be  lost.  It  is  an  area  where  expert  advice 
is  essential  to  success. 

To  make  matters  a  Httle  more  delicate, 
gift-leasebacks  are  frequently  examined 
very  closely  by  the  IRS,  and  if  the  ar- 
rangement fails  to  meet  the  accepted  cri- 
teria, it  will  be  challenged.  Those  who 
have  gone  before  you  have,  as  a  result  of 
many  tax  court  cases,  left  a  set  of  four 
basic  ingredients  necessary  to  survive  an 
IRS  attack. 

First,  the  trustee  of  the  irrevocable  trust 
must  be  an  independent  party.  This  could 
include  a  bank,  an  accountant  or  a  lawyer, 
but  definitely  should  not  be  a  grantor  or 
any  member  of  his  family. 

Second,  the  leaseback  should  not  be 
prearranged;  it  should  be  in  writing  and 
should  call  for  a  reasonable  rent  after  ne- 
gotiations with  the  independent  trustee. 

Third,  the  leaseback  must  have  a  "bona 


fide"  business  purpose.  (Use  of  the  prop- 
erty in  the  business  seems  to  satisfy  this 
requirement.) 

Fourth,  the  grantor  (the  person  who  is 
giving  the  property)  miist  not  retain  any 
interest  in  the  property.  In  some  cases, 
this  rule  could  preclude  a  reversionary  in- 
terest, such  as  the  return  of  the  property 
to  the  grantor  after  10  years.  If  this  is  the 
case,  the  problem  can  easily  be  avoided 
by  having  the  property  return  to  the  spouse 
of  the  grantor. 

Remember,  these  are  only  the  basics. 
In  addition  to  these  tests,  the  documents 
necessary  to  carry  out  the  plan  must  meet 
other  technical  and  practical  require- 
ments. It  is,  nevertheless,  quite  do-able, 
and  if  the  circumstances  lend  themselves 
to  such  an  arrangement,  thousands  of  tax 
dollars  can  be  saved. 

College  "Gifts" 
and  Borrow-back 

Few  things  have  been  more  dramatically 
affected  by  inflation  than  college  ex- 
penses. And  for  those  of  us  who  have  to 
pay  those  expenses,  it  hurts. 

Where  not  too  many  years  ago  a  year 


Computer  facilities 
play  an  increasingly 
key  role  in  a  WPI 
education.  More 
than  100  terminals 
across  campus  link 
students  to  the 
school's  three  main- 
frame computers. 


of  college  was  $1,000  or  $2,000,  the  same 
year  now  costs  $4,000  to  $8,000,  and  more. 
Every  dime  of  these  costs  we  can  save, 
therefore,  is  precious. 

One  way  to  ease  the  bite  is  to  have  the 
student  "earn"  the  college  money  at  his 
lower  tax  bracket.  The  problem  often  is 
that  the  student  has  little  or  no  money  on 
which  to  earn  anything.  Then  how  about 
gifts  to  the  student? 

This  could  be  helpful,  but  gifts,  in 
themselves,  are  not  tax-deductible,  and 
once  the  money  is  used  up,  more  gifts 
must  be  made.  Repeating  these  gifts  on 
a  non-deductible  basis  each  year  can  get 
pretty  expensive. 

Here's  another  idea.  Make  a  gift  (or 
gifts)  to  the  student,  then  borrow  your  gift 
back  with  interest.  The  interest  is  taxable 
income  to  the  student  but  also  deductible 
to  you.  Like  any  tax  maneuver,  it  must 
be  carried  out  with  attention  to  detail,  but 
if  properly  done,  it  can  work. 

For  example,  say  that  Mr.  and  Mrs.  B. 
want  to  help  put  their  daughter  through 
school,  and  the  costs  are  $4,000  to  $5,000 
per  year.  Daughter  has  a  little  money 
saved,  but  not  enough  to  cover  all  the 
costs.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  B.  make  a  gift  to 
daughter  of  $20,000  ($10,000  from  each, 
so  gift  taxes  are  not  a  concern).  Later, 
they  borrow  the  $20,000  back  from 
daughter  at  an  interest  rate  of  2  points 
over  the  prime  rate.  At  a  prime  of  16 
percent,  they  will  pay  18  percent  per  year 
interest,  or  a  total  of  $3,600  per  year;  al- 
most enough  to  cover  daughter's  college 
costs. 

The  interest  is  fully  deductible  to  the 
parents  and  is  taxable  income  to  the 
daughter.  If  she  has  no  other  income,  she'll 
pay  a  federal  tax  of  about  $400,  leaving 
nearly  enough  to  cover  her  costs.  Parents 
get  a  $3,600  tax  deduction,  saving  them 
as  much  as  $1,800  per  year  in  federal  taxes. 

At  the  end  of  her  college  education, 
daughter's  parents  could  pay  back  the  debt 
and  the  money  could  be  used  by  daughter 
in  starting  her  career.  Of  course,  there  is 
also  the  possibility  that  daughter,  instead, 
would  forgive  the  debt.  That  is,  she  could 
make  a  gift  of  $10,000  to  each  parent,  but 
this  would  be  extremely  risky,  as  the  IRS 
could  then  claim  that  the  whole  deal  was 
prearranged  and  there  never  was  a  debt. 
If  this  happened,  the  parents'  deduction 
would  be  disallowed  (for  at  least  the  pre- 
vious three  years). 

Under  this  gift  and  borrow-back  ar- 
rangement, there  should  be  an  actual 
transfer  of  funds  to  the  student,  or  to  a 
trust  for  the  benefit  of  the  student  if  the 
student  is  a  minor.  Subsequent  to  the  gift. 


the  borrowing  should  be  evidenced  by  a 
valid,  enforceable  promissory  note  exe- 
cuted by  either  or  both  of  the  parents, 
providing  for  payment  of  interest  and  a 
date  for  payment  of  the  principal  (ma- 
turity). At  maturity,  the  note  should  ac- 
tually be  paid  by  the  parent  or  parents. 
What  the  student  then  does  with  the  funds 
is  the  student's  business. 

Shifting  Income 
Can  Save  on  Taxes 

It  seems  clear  that  a  student's  college  ed- 
ucation can  be  cheaper  for  the  parent  if 
the  student,  rather  than  the  parent,  earns 
the  funds  necessary  for  the  college  costs. 


ducing  fashion.  The  income  from  the  in- 
vestment will  be  taxed  to  either  the  stu- 
dent or  the  trust,  depending  upon  whether 
it  is  kept  in  the  trust  or  distributed  to  the 
student. 

For  example.  Dad  cashes  in  his  $50,000 
certificate  of  deposit  and  loans  the  cash 
at  no  interest  to  his  spouse,  as  trustee  of 
a  trust  for  the  benefit  of  their  son,  James, 
age  18.  Spouse  (as  trustee)  then  purchases 
some  four-year  government  agency  bonds 
paying  15-percent  interest,  or  $7,500  per 
year.  The  same  year  James  enters  college, 
with  total  costs  of  $6,500  per  year,  and 
Mom  as  trustee  distributes  the  income  to 
James,  who  pays  an  income  tax  of  about 
$700  and  uses  the  balance  to  pay  his  tu- 
ition. In  the  50-percent  tax  bracket.  Dad 
would  have  had  to  earn  $15,000  to  give 


In  just  ten  years,  the 
rate  of  student  ath- 
letic  participation  at 
all  levels — whether 
in  the  nine  men's  and 
seven  women's  var- 
sity sports  or  in  the 
42  intramural  and 
club  sports — has 
nearly  doubled. 


This  can  often  be  accomplished  by  a  shift- 
ing of  income  from  the  parent  to  the  stu- 
dent. 

Shifting  income  from  a  high-bracket 
taxpayer  to  a  lower-bracket  taxpayer  is  a 
sure-fire  way  of  saving  taxes,  provided  you 
can  find  a  sure-fire  way  of  shifting  the 
income.  The  Clifford  trust,  or  10-year  trust, 
has  been  tried  and  tested  for  shifting  in- 
come, but  not  everyone  wants  or  needs 
to  shift  income  for  10  years. 

There  is  another  tried  and  often  tested 
way  to  shift  income  for  any  period  you 
like — whether  it  be  10  days,  10  months  or 
10  years.  It's  called  the  interest-free  de- 
mand loan. 

The  concept  is  simple.  You,  the  parent 
(or  grandparent,  or  other  benefactor),  will 
make  a  loan  to  the  student,  or  to  a  trust 
for  the  benefit  of  the  student  at  no  inter- 
est, and  the  student  or  the  trust  will  invest 
the  loan  proceeds  in  some  income-pro- 


James  the  same  amount — a  savings  of 
about  $7,000  (after  considering  James's 
federal  income  tax). 

This  pattern  repeats  for  three  more  years 
until  James  finishes  college,  at  which  time 
Dad  calls  the  loan  and  receives  his  $50,000 
back.  Total  savings:  more  than  $20,000. 

There  are  a  couple  of  important  re- 
quirements to  the  interest-free  loan  ar- 
rangement. For  one,  the  loan  must  be  a 
"demand"  loan  rather  than  for  a  specified 
period  of  time.  That  is,  the  lender  (Dad 
in  our  example)  should  have  the  right  to 
"call"  the  note  (demand  payment)  at  any 
time.  Secondly,  an  actual  written,  en- 
forceable promissory  note  should  be  signed 
by  the  borrower  (Mom,  as  trustee,  in  our 
example)  and  the  note  should  actually  be 
given  to  the  lender  and  held  until  paid. 
Further,  only  money  should  be  loaned. 
Loaning  property  other  than  money,  par- 
ticularly income-producing  property  such 


APRIL  1983        5 


A  thematic  se- 
quence of  courses  in 
areas  ranging  from 
art  history  and  mu- 
sic to  philosophy, 
literature  and  the 
history  of  technol- 
ogy and  science, 
round  out  the  edu- 
cation of  the  tech- 
nological humanist. 


as  stocks  or  bonds,  will  almost  assuredly 
produce  tax  problems  for  the  lender  and 
may  defeat  the  entire  purpose  of  the  ar- 
rangement. 

There  are  several  very  important  ad- 
vantages to  the  interest-free  loan,  partic- 
ularly if  done  through  a  trust.  For  ex- 
ample, if  James  does  poorly  and  drops  out 
of  college.  Dad  could  call  the  loan  and 
get  his  money  back  immediately.  On  the 
other  hand,  if  James  went  on  to  graduate 
school  Dad  could  simply  let  the  loan  con- 
tinue. If  at  any  time  Dad  needed  a  portion 
of  the  funds  he  could  call  a  portion  of  the 
loan.  It  is  this  tremendous  flexibility  of 
time  and  control  that  can  make  the  in- 
terest-free loan  much  more  desirable  than 
the  10-year  Clifford  trust. 

There  is  one  other  pomt  that  you  should 
realize  about  mterest-free  loans.  The  IRS 
hates  them.  The  reason  is  partly  that  it  is 
such  an  easy,  straightforward  way  to  save 
taxes,  and  partly  because  it  is  such  a  "low- 
profile"  arrangement  (it  is  difficult  for  them 


even  to  be  aware  of  it  since  there  is  no 
requirement  to  report  such  a  loan),  but 
mainly  because  almost  every  time  they 
have  challenged  the  arrangement  in  court, 
the  IRS  has  lost.  For  this  reason,  advisers 
generally  recommend  the  use  of  interest- 
free  loans  as  an  effective  way  to  shift  in- 
come, especially  for  college  educational 
expenses. 

A  Court  Decision 
for  the  Big  Guys 

In  a  recent  U.S.  Court  of  Appeals  decision, 
however,  the  court  held,  in  effect,  that  giv- 
ing someone  the  use  of  money  for  no  in- 
terest, or  for  a  rate  less  than  the  market 
rate,  is  a  gift,  tiixable  to  the  donor/lender. 
After  having  lost  every  one  of  the  many 
court  battles  on  interest-free  loans  of  this 
sort,  the  IRS  is  justifiably  jubilant  over 
the  victory  and  no  doubt  still  partying  in 


celebration  of  this  landmark  decision, 
which  involved  more  than  $80,000  in  de- 
linquent gift  taxes  and  additional  charges 
to  the  Dickman  family  of  Florida,  which 
made  the  loans. 

Involved  were  hundreds  of  thousands 
of  dollars'  worth  of  interest-free  demand 
notes  from  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Dickman  to  their 
son,  Lyle,  and  to  a  closely  held  corpo- 
ration. As  in  their  past  attacks  on  these 
loans,  the  IRS  contended  that  the  use  of 
the  money  at  no  charge  was  no  different 
than  a  transfer  of  property  by  gift.  The 
gift-tax  laws,  they  argued,  impose  a  tax 
on  the  transfer  of  property  by  an  individ- 
ual for  less  than  adequate  and  full  con- 
sideration. The  value  of  the  gift  for  gift- 
tax  purposes  will  be  the  value  of  the 
"property"  transferred  less  the  amount 
received  by  the  donor. 

Remember  that  in  this  case  we  are  not 
talking  about  the  amount  of  the  loan,  but 
rather  the  value  of  the  use  of  the  amount 
of  the  loan  for  a  period  of  time.  This,  the 
IRS  said — and  the  court  agreed — was  the 
property  right  that  was  given,  and  it  has 
a  clear  and  definite  value.  In  other  words, 
what  would  it  cost  if  you  were  to  ask  a 
bank  or  other  lending  institution  to  let 
you  use,  say,  $10,000  for  a  year?  Clearly 
it  does  have  a  value  and  in  the  Dickman 
case,  since  nothing  was  charged  for  the 
use  of  the  money,  a  gift  was  considered 
made  at  the  end  of  each  taxable  period. 

The  fact  that  the  interest-free  notes  were 
"demand"  notes,  a  point  which  most 
professionals  (including  myself)  heavily 
stressed  to  counter  IRS  attacks,  made  no 
difference,  said  the  court.  The  only  dis- 
tinction there  was  the  period  involved  for 
valuing  the  amount  of  the  gift.  In  its  hold- 
ing, the  court  overruled  the  famous  Crown 
case,  which  was  the  recent  frontrunner  for 
interest-free  loan  guidelines  and  which 
helped  establish  the  importance  of  the  de- 
mand note,  as  opposed  to  a  note  for  a 
term  of  years. 

But  does  all  this  mean  that  you  should 
now  steer  clear  of  interest-free  loans?  Are 
they  now  a  lost  ark  for  tax  savings?  I  say 
no  on  both  counts.  Here's  why. 

In  the  Dickman  case  the  IRS  made  a 
sound  argument  that  the  free  use  of  money 
can  be  a  gift,  but  they  also  told  us  how 
they  intend  to  value  it  for  gift-tax  pur- 
poses. It  appears  they  intend  to  apply  the 
same  interest  rate,  as  a  measure  of  the 
value  of  the  gift  (not  as  a  tax),  that  they 
apply  to  underpayment  of  taxes  and  tax 
refunds.  This  interest  rate  is  set  in  Oc- 
tober of  each  year  according  to  the 
(rounded-off)  prime  interest  rate  in  Sep- 
tember. 


WPI   JOURNAL 


In  other  words,  [using  a  hypothetical 
12-percent  prime]  at  this  rate  as  a  measure 
of  the  use  of  the  funds,  an  interest-free 
loan  of  $83,000  for  one  year  would  con- 
stitute a  gift  of  $9,960.  Because  of  the 
$10,000  tax-free  gifts  which  may  now  be 
given  each  year  to  a  donee,  there  would 
be  no  gift-tax  problem  with  this  interest- 
free  loan.  And  if  a  spouse  consents  to  the 
use  of  his  or  her  additional  gift-tax  exclu- 
sion, an  interest-free  loan  of  $166,000  may 
be  made  (if  the  12-percent  rate  applies) — 
more  if  the  rate  goes  down,  less  if  it  goes 
up. 

Furthermore,  even  if  you  exceed  the 
gift-tax-free  amount,  you  can  still  apply  a 
part  of  your  unified  tax  credit,  so  the  pos- 
sibility of  having  to  pay  a  gift  tax  under 
current  law  is  quite  remote,  unless  you 
want  to  loan,  say,  a  million  or  more,  in 
which  case  I'd  like  you  to  know  that  my 
credit  is  very  good. 

So  you  can  see,  despite  the  import  of 
the  Dickman  case  and  the  fanfare  it  will 
no  doubt  be  given,  for  us  small-to-me- 
dium-sized shooters,  the  interest-free  loan 
is  still  very  fair  game. 

Deductions  Now 
Lead  to  Cash  Later 

As  we  have  seen,  tax-wise  financing  of 
college  education  is  limited  by  only  three 
things:  the  expert  advice  available  to  you., 
your  personal  and  family  circumstances, 
and  the  amount  of  money  you  have. 

Generally,  those  persons  who  have  more 
money  will  benefit  more  than  the  rest  of 
us  from  creative  tax  planning  for  other- 
wise non-deductible  educational  ex- 
penses. One  effective  maneuver  fre- 
quently used  by  the  heavy  hitters  is 
converting  a  tax  shelter  into  a  scholarship 
fund. 

During  the  past  few  years,  so-called  tax 
shelters  have  become  extremely  popular 
as  a  tax-deferring  device. 

Basically,  shelters  allow  the  investor  to 
defer  taxes  by  providing  a  current  tax  de- 
duction which  comes  back  to  the  investor 
later  (called  a  "recapture"),  sometimes  in 
the  form  of  a  cash  flow.  For  the  most  part, 
these  shelters  are  in  real  estate  or  oil  and 
gas  ventures.  By  taking  advantage  of  the 
current  deduction,  then  shifting  the  re- 
capture income  to  the  child  in  a  lower 
bracket,  the  tax  payer  makes  an  effective 
double-play  against  the  IRS. 

For  example,  say  that  Mr.  B.  invests 
$25,000  in  a  conservative  oil  and  gas  in- 
vestment for  1981 ,  which  in  turn  gives  him 


a  tax  deduction  of  a  like  amount.  In  the 
60-percent  tax  bracket,  this  saves  him 
$15,000  in  taxes.  In  1982,  while  the  ven- 
ture is  still  developing  its  prospects,  Mr. 
B.  transfers  his  entire  share  in  the  venture 
to  a  trust  for  the  benefit  of  his  daughter, 
who  expects  to  begin  college  in  1983.  Be- 
cause of  the  uncertainty  of  value  and  re- 
stricted marketability  of  the  share,  in  all 
probability  the  value  of  the  gift  in  1982 
for  gift-tax  purposes  will  be  nominal,  and 
Mr.  B.  will  not  have  to  use  any  of  his 
allowable  gift-tax  credit.  Further,  the  trust 
could  be  a  Clifford  trust,  where  Mr.  B. 
would  recover  his  interest  in  the  venture 
after  10  years,  if  he  wished. 

In  1983  the  venture  begins  to  produce 
a  cash  flow  of  $500  per  month  to  daugh- 
ter's trust.  If  the  payments  are  eligible  for 
the  current  oil-depletion  allowance  ben- 
efit, simply  stated  (it  can  be  unbelievably 
complicated)  this  is  22  percent  of  the  $500 
monthly  payments,  and  that  amount  would 


be  tax-free.  The  balance  would  produce 
an  annual  tax  of  about  $200,  leaving  $5,800 
after  taxes  to  finance  daughter's  educa- 
tion. (Even  if  daughter's  income  were  not 
eligible  for  the  oil-depletion  allowance, 
which  is  quite  possible,  there  would  only 
be  a  tax  of  about  $600  for  the  year.) 
Hopefully,  this  income  would  continue 
over  a  period  of  years,  at  a  cost  to  Dad 
of  only  $10,000  ($25,000  investment  less 
$15,000  tax  benefit). 

Now  for  the  warnings.  (You  knew  they 
had  to  come!)  Tax  shelters  are  by  nature 
speculative;  this  is  one  of  the  reasons 
Congress  gives  them  favorable  tax  treat- 
ment. Therefore,  there  is  no  guarantee  of 
the  projected  cash  flow.  And  even  if  there 
is  a  cash  flow,  it  may  not  be  consistent. 

Second,  the  complicated  nature  of  the 
tax  laws  make  this  maneuver  a  very  del- 
icate one;  consequently,  it  should  only  be 
considered  after  obtaining  the  best  expert 
advice  available.  Nevertheless,  there  are 


#•#*•#• 


The  end.  And  a  new 
beginning. 


APRIL  1983 


Facts  an( 

1  Figures 

But  what  of  students'  attitudes 

Meanwhile,  reports  Edgar 

toward  financing  of  their  col- 

Heselbarth, Director  of  WPI's 

lege  costs?  The  January  26, 

Financial  Aid  Office,  75  per- 

1983 Chronicle  of  Higher  Edu- 

cent of  WPI  undergraduates 

cation  reported  that  in  a  survey 

receive  some  sort  of  financial 

of  188,000  students  who  en- 

aid. The  college  itself  has 

tered  college  in  the  fall  of 

awarded  $2.35  million  in  finan- 

1982, more  than  68  percent 

cial  aid  for  this  year  alone, 

had  "some"  or  "much"  con- 

from endowment  monies  and 

cern  about  financing  college. 

operating  income. 

(Some  12  percent  named  engi- 

Among 23  private,  non-Ivy 

neering  as  their  probable  ca- 

League New  England  colleges, 

reer  occupation.) 

between  20  and  52  percent  of 

Only  28  percent  of  the  over- 

1982-83 freshmen  were 

all  sample  received  no  support 

awarded  college-based  aid 

from  parents  while  29  percent 

(i.e.,  not  state,  federal  or  pri- 

got more  than  $2,000  from 

vate),  according  to  a  survey 

home  each  year.  And  among 

conducted  by  the  Eastern 

the  22  types  of  state,  federal 

Group  of  Admissions  Directors 

and  college  aid  identified,  re- 

(EGAD). WPI's  share  is  50 

spondents  who  received 

percent. 

"none"  from  any  given  source 

"The  plain  fact,"  contends 

ranged  from  a  low  of  57  per- 

Assistant Director  Michael 

cent  to  a  high  of  99  percent. 

Curley,  "is  that  students  and 

Clearly,  families  are  footing 

their  families  dig  down  deep 

the  bulk  of  their  children's  col- 

for the  chance  to  attend  WPI." 

lege  costs. 

many  such  ventures  designed  to  produce 
current  deductions  with  future  cash  flow, 
which  lend  themselves  neatly  to  this  tax- 
savings  plan. 

When  a  Gift 
Means  Savings 

I  should  be  ashamed  of  myself,  one  reader 
told  me.  It  is  just  not  fair  that  she  had 
already  paid  thousands  for  college  edu- 
cation of  children  without  any  tax  advan- 
tage, and  here  I  was  telling  others  how 
they  could  finance  education  through  tax- 
saving  schemes.  What  can  I  say?  I  guess 
some  horses  are  never  led  to  the  water. 

Unfortunately,  it  is  a  fiercely  compet- 
itive world,  particularly  from  the  stand- 
point of  tax  planning.  One  must  often  take 
an  aggressive  position  and  should  always 
ask,  "Is  there  any  way  this  expense/in- 
vestment/transaction can  be  structured  to 
give  me  a  tax  advantage?"  College  costs 
are  no  exception. 

We  have  explored  several  ways  of  re- 
ducing educational  cost  through  tax  ben- 
efits, and  the  main  thrust  has  been  the 


shifting  of  taxable  income  to  the  child,  so 
that  the  child  can  use  this  income  (in  a 
lower  tax  bracket)  to  pay  his  own  college 
expenses  at  a  lower  overall  outlay  of  cash 
to  the  parent  or  other  sponsor. 

For  a  quick  recap,  the  several  ways  that 
seem  to  work  include: 

•  Outright  gift  to  the  child  (or  to  a 
custodian  under  the  Uniform  Gifts  to 
Minors  Act)  where,  although  the 
gifts  themselves  are  not  tax-deducti- 
ble, the  income  from  the  gifts  is 
taxed  to  the  child,  thereby  saving  the 
parent  tax  dollars  each  year. 

•  Gifts  of  income-producing  prop- 
erty to  a  10-year  trust,  so  that  the 
child  (or  the  trust)  collects  the  in- 
come in  a  lower  tax  bracket  for  the 
10-year  period,  and  after  that  the 
property  returns  to  the  parent  or 
someone  designated  by  the  parent. 

•  Gift  (or  sale)  of  business  or 
professional  property  to  the  child  or 
to  a  trust  for  the  benefit  of  the  child, 
which  is  then  rented  back  to  the  par- 
ent or  other  sponsor.  The  rental  pay- 
ments are  deductible  to  the  parent 
and  taxed  to  the  child  or  the  trust  at 
a  lower  bracket. 


•  Gifts  of  money  to  the  child  or  to 
a  trust  and  a  subsequent  borrowing 
back  of  the  money  by  the  parent,  at 
a  substantial  (but  fair)  interest  rate. 
The  interest  paid  is  deductible  to  the 
parent  and  taxable  to  the  child. 

•  Interest-free  loans  from  the  par- 
ent to  the  child  or  to  a  trust  for  the 
child.  The  child  or  trust  then  invests 
the  borrowed  funds  to  generate  in- 
come at  a  lower  tax  bracket,  while 
the  parent/lender  may  recall  the  loan 
at  any  time.  The  funds  used  to  make 
the  interest-free  loans  could  be  sav- 
ings, or  funds  borrowed  from  your 
own  retirement  plan  or  insurance 
policy,  or  even  from  a  second  mort- 
gage on  your  home. 

•  Gifts  of  a  tax-shelter  interest 
after  the  deductions  have  been  taken 
but  before  the  income  is  generated, 
so  the  parent  receives  the  tax  bene- 
fits on  both  sides,  but  this  can  only 
be  done  with  certain  types  of  shel- 
ters. 

•  Employing  your  child  in  your 
business  and  paying  his  wages.  The 
wages  are  deductible  to  you  and  only 
taxed  to  the  child  if  they  exceed 
$3,300  for  the  year  (assuming  he  has 
no  other  income).  Of  course,  the 
child  should  actually  render  services 
to  your  company. 

•  Any  other  legitimate  maneuvers 
that  you  and  your  tax  advisors  can 
dream  up. 

As  a  general  rule,  you  should  be  sure 
that  none  of  the  income  earned  by  your 
child  or  your  child's  trust  is  to  be  used  to 
satisfy  any  of  your  legal  obligations.  To 
the  extent  that  it  is,  then  that  amount  will 
be  taxed  to  you,  the  parent.  For  example, 
if  you  sign  an  agreement  to  pay  $3,000 
for  the  first  year  of  schoQl  and  it  is  paid 
out  of  the  child's  trust,  then  the  $3,000 
will  be  income  to  you,  regardless  of  how 
carefully  the  trust  was  set  up. 

Unlike  many  other,  more  sophisticated 
tax  schemes,  financing  of  college  educa- 
tion through  one  or  more  of  the  ap- 
proaches suggested  in  this  article  is  avail- 
able to  everyone,  not  just  the  big  shooters. 
Consequently,  if  you  are  to  survive,  you 
must  revise  your  attitude  and  think  of  these 
tax  plans  as  fruits  on  a  tall  tree,  then  make 
arrangements  to  pick  those  within  your 
reach. 

Alexander  A.  Bove,  Jr.,  is  a  Boston 
lawyer  whose  column,  "The  Family 
Money,"  appears  weekly  in  the  Boston 
Globe.  Reprinted  with  permission  of  the 
author  and  the  Boston  Globe. 


8        WPI  JOURNAL 


ANIMALS 

IN  THE 

ARTS 


Art  by  Clinton  Anowood 

These  anomalous  creatures  are  in  the 
tradition  of  Arthur  Rackham  and  Er- 
nest Shepard.  They  are  animals,  yes. 
The  frogs  show  a  froggy  leaping  bra- 
vura. The  sheep  are  dumb  and  digni- 
fied. The  alhgators  are  sleepily  ro- 
coco. But  they  also  display  all  the 
traits  of  the  singers,  dancers,  and  mu- 
sicians they  portray. 

At  right  is  the  lovely  Cho-Cho-San, 
Puccini's  Madame  Butterfly,  who 
commits  hara-kiri  for  the  sake  of  one 
Lieutenant  Pinkerton.  Notice  her  air 
of  operatic  self-possession:  she  is  sure 
she  belongs  at  center  stage.- 


he  corps  de  ballet,  at 
the  back  of  the  stage 
(abo%'e),  has  marsh  grass  as 
a  headdress.  Downstage, 
this  frog  executes  a  grand 
jete  (a  great  leap),  while  the 
harlequin  performs  a  ca- 
briole (literally,  a  caper) 
and  the  couple  a  pas  de 
deux.  "The  frog  possesses 
an  essential  quality  that  a 
lot  of  real  live  dancers 
should  envy."  Arrowood 
comments. 


ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


A, 


rrowood  believes  he  got  the  idea  of 
dancing  frogs  from  the  Royal  Ballet  of 
London,  which  performed  a  version  of 
Beatrix  Potter  tales  some  years  ago.  He 
was  transfixed  by  the  image  of  Jeremy 
Fisher  leaping  across  the  stage. 

Arrowood  tries  to  make  his  frogs  ana- 
tomically correct,  which  is  why  their  torsos 
bulge  and  their  feet  sickle — these  are,  after 
all,  frogs.  But  he  has  endowed  the  female 
dancers  with  mammaries  and  eyelashes, 
"just  to  give  them  a  little  more  feminine 
charm."  The  dancing,  however,  so  far  as 
the  frogginess  of  the  models  allows,  is  cor- 
rectly performed. 

When  he  draws,  he  starts  with  the  eyes. 
"I  don't  really  feel  comfortable  until  I've 
got  the  eyes.  But  once  the  eyes  are  done, 
I  feel  I've  established  some  contact  with 
the  drawing  and  the  rest  of  it  flows." 


APRIL  1983 


T 

JL  h 


he  alligators  were  the  first  of  the  cultured  creatures  to 
be  drawn,  back  in  1975,  and  Arrowood  has  since  moved  to  a 
simpler  type  of  rendition.  He  admires  the  clear,  simple  lines 
with  which  Ernest  Shepard  illustrated  The  Wind  in  the  Wil- 
lows, and  is  striving  toward  a  less  self-conscious  style.  The 
baroque  elegance  of  these  drawings,  however,  seems  to  suit 
some  quality  in  alligators.  Their  teeth,  perhaps. 

From  the  left:  a  pianist.  The  piano  is  copied  from  an  in- 
strument in  the  Metropolitan,  though  the  museum  piano  fea- 
tures human  faces. 

Tlie  oboe  player:  See  the  small,  delicate  double  reed,  and 
notice  how  hard  the  player  must  work  to  get  a  good  sound 
out  of  the  instrument,  'i  understand,"  Arrowood  says,  "that 
the  pressure  in  the  head  sometimes  makes  oboe  players  blow 
small  blood  vessels.  Maybe  that's  why  so  many  of  them  talk 
to  themselves." 


iV        ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


w. 


ith  the  foxes  and  the  hunting  horns  on 
her  costume,  this  French  horn  player  honors  the 
hunting  ancestry  of  her  instrument.  She  has  a 
self-satisifed  look,  as  if  her  fellow  horn-players 
were  softly  shuffling  their  feet  to  applaud  a  solo 
passage.  "That's  the  ultimate  compliment,"  Ar- 
rowood  says — he  is  a  flutist — "because  your 
peers  really  know  whether  you  played  well  or 
not." 

Above,  a  noble  trombone  player  sports  a  fur- 
lined  coat,  proud  that  his  is  the  oldest  instrument 
in  the  orchestra. 

The  books  in  which  these  creatures  appear  can 
be  ordered  from  Gambit  Press,  27  North  Main 
Street,  Meeting  House  Green,  Ipswich,  Mass. 
01938.  Ask  for  Lambs'  Tales  from  Great  Operas, 
ators  and  Music,  and  Frogs  and  the  Ballet, 
by  Donald  Elliott  and  Clinton  Arrowood. 


APRIL  1983        V 


Mr.  Roeblings  Bridge 

**Whoii  ci>ivstriicted  in  accordance  with  my  designs  • .  ♦" 


k'  l\ol>cii  Kanigcl 


Photographs  by  William  Denisci 


I 


i\  ■■■II     ySTrn 


GBTfVBflBt  '^te 


%t>Mg3auitt-jw  Tr'j^jE  aeai- 


..fli  c: 


nr 


tr  » 


c9nl^ 


Situ 


ni'irg-  •  aHKfil 


Aiitf     ^rar-^y^>m  sb 


opening,  as  will  the  Brooklyn  Bridge  this 
May  24.  On  tap  are  a  parade,  a  sound  and 
Hght  show,  a  harbor  salute,  and  a  musical 
composition  commissioned  in  its  honor. 
There  are  longer  suspension  bridges  than 
the  Brooklyn;  the  Williamsburg  is  one  of 
them,  by  five  feet.  And  there  were  other 
suspension  bridges  that  preceded  it.  though 
at  the  time,  none  so  long.  But  no  bridge 
in  history,  it  seems  fair  to  say,  has  cap- 


practical  engineering  was  more  his  speed. 
Such  as  maintaining  bridges. 

The  bearded,  44-year-old  engineer  is 
cordial,  and  he  displays  a  knowledge  of 
the  bridge's  history  far  more  extensive  than 
his  job  demands;  it's  plain  he  doesn't  re- 
sent the  attention  the'Brooklyn  Bridge  is 
getting.  Yet  something  galls  him  about  all 
the  centennial  goings-on:  "The  city  has 
been  ignoring  the  bridge  for  a  hundred 


1877:  Seven  years  into  construction,  the 
four  massive  cables  that  support  the 
bridge,  each  consisting  of  6,000  individual 
wires,  are  scarcely  begun.  Posing  on  the 
footbridge  is  a  group  of  company  trustees. 


tured  the  imagination  of  so  many  people 
as  the  Brooklyn  Bridge.  It  is  a  one-of-a- 
kind  cultural  symbol.  It  is  the  quintessen- 
tial American  bridge. 

For  Robert  Gough,  the  centennial 
hoopla  has  been  a  bit  of  a  bother.  As 
Chief  Engineer  for  Bridge  Operations  of 
the  New  York  City  Department  of  Trans- 
portation, Gough  has  all  the  many 
hundreds  of  the  city  bridges  in  his  care. 
So  numerous  are  the  writers  and  photog- 
raphers who  want  to  explore  the  Brooklyn 
Bridge  as  the  centennial  draws  near,  he 
says,  that  it  amounts  to  "a  regular  tour  of 
the  thing;  you've  got  people  bumping  into 
each  other  on  the  cables."  And  actually 
climbing  them:  A  photographer  wishing 
to  take  pictures  from  atop  one  of  the 
bridge's  276-foot  granite  and  limestone 
towers  must  reimburse  the  city,  at  $27  per 
hour  each,  for  the  two  ironworkers  needed 
to  help  him  navigate  a  steeply-pitched,  15- 
inch  diameter  cable,  with  only  guy  wires 
and  safety  harness  for  support.  People  do 
it,  eagerly.  It's  the  only  way  up. 

Gough  has  a  bachelor's  degree  in  civil 
engineering  from  City  College.  Some  years 
ago,  he  registered  for  a  master's  program 
at  Columbia  University.  But  after  a  taste 
of  all  that  theoretical  math,  he  says,  he 
decided  he  didn't  need  it;  down  to  earth. 


years,"  he  says.  "Now  it's  basically  one 
year  of  activity,  and  then  they'll  go  back 
to  ignoring  it." 

In  the  shadow  of  the  bridge,  along  Pearl 
Street  in  Manhattan,  an  old  Chinese 
man  limps  wearily  along.  Vehicles 
stream  by  in  infinite  variety.  Next  to  a 
bridge  pier,  squared-off  piles  of  new  brick 
stand  beside  scraps  of  stone  and  virgin 
trees:  The  city  is  making  a  small  brick- 
paved  park  to  coincide  with  the  centen- 
nial. A  group  of  boys  on  BMX  bikes  take 
turns  rolling  down  a  steep  brick  embank- 
ment that's  part  of  it.  A  woman  drags  an 
unhappy-looking  little  girl  behind  her.  A 
dead  car  reduced  to  a  hulk,  denuded  even 
of  its  wheels,  lies  sprawled  alongside  the 
curb.  "The  single  most  beautiful  object 
in  New  York,"  writer  Nicholas  King  has 
called  the  Brooklyn  Bridge.  But  it  is  from 
the  ragged  clutter  of  a  sometimes  ugly  city 
that  the  bridge  rises. 

It  begins  in  a  great  bowl,  the  rim  of 
which  is  formed  by  the  surrounding  office 
towers.  In  the  middle  of  the  bowl,  as  con- 
verging highway  ramps  wrap  around  it, 
the  bridge  gashes  up  through  the  bottom. 
For  a  Brooklyn-bound  pedestrian,  the 
bridge  begins  inauspiciously:  You  arc 
confined  to  a  raw,  concrete  path,  pressed 


in  on  either  side  by  speeding  auto  traffic. 
At  this  point  in  your  trek,  it's  a  matter  of 
semantics  whether  you're  on  the  bridge 
proper  or  on  the  Manhattan  street  system 
that  feeds  it. 

In  time,  you  reach  a  stairway,  two  sets 
of  seven  steps  each,  and  abruptly  it's  as 
if  the  city  dropped  away:  Ahead,  sup- 
planting the  bare  concrete,  stretch  a  wood- 
slatted  promenade,  the  soaring  cables,  the 
great  gothic  towers.  The  roar  of  traffic 
still  strikes  the  ear,  but  now  it's  more  dis- 
tant to  the  eye.  Now  the  cars  speed  below 
you,  hedged  in  by  steel  trusses.  Up  here, 
everything  seems  neater,  more  ordered, 
more  spacious.  The  array  of  wood  slats 
stretching  out  before  you  in  a  wide  ribbon 
is  somehow  welcoming.  Walkers  and  cy- 
clists seem  unhurried — a  rarity  in  this 
nervous  city.  An  occasional  wood  bench 
recalls  a  boardwalk,  or  a  quiet  park. 

After  maybe  50  yards,  the  bridge's  four 
great  cables  begin  their  ascent  from  be- 
neath the  roadway,  bound  for  the  tops  of 
the  towers  looming  ahead.  Wire  rope  sus- 
penders plunge  from  the  cables,  holding 
up  the  roadway.  At  the  Manhattan  tower, 
well  out  over  the  East  River,  another  short 
stairway  brings  you  yet  further  above  the 
traffic.  And  here  a  steel  web  of  vertical 
suspenders  and  diagonal  stays,  tied  to- 
gether at  knot-like  junctures  with  loops 
of  metal,  trembling  a  little  as  the  traffic 
roars  past,  irresistibly  compels  attention. 
There  are  four  vertical  planes  of  criss- 
crossing stays  and  suspenders,  one  for  each 
cable,  and  the  lines  of  the  foreground  (or 
inboard)  planes  form  diagonal  windows 
for  viewing  the  outboard  ones.  Trape- 
zoids and  triangles  are  everywhere. 

These,  suspenders  and  stays  form  fili- 
gree walls  flanking  you  on  either  side;  only 
a  narrow  slot  of  unobstructed  sky  re- 
mains, directly  above.  But  near  midspan, 
as  the  cables  dip  down  again  to  the  road- 
way, the  slot  grows  wider,  the  walls  smaller, 
until  finally  they  vanish.  And  it  is  here, 
out  in  the  middle  of  the  river,  that  the 
designer's  vision  seems  most  perfectly  re- 
alized: Almost  800  feet  from  either  tower, 
you're  half  a  mile  from  either  shore  and 
135  feet  above  the  river,  and  the  city  streets 
in  all  their  angry  commotion  are  far  out 
of  mind  and  sight.  Here,  out  over  the 
water,  as  a  stiff  wind  blows  up  the  East 
River,  it  is  just  you,  and  the  steel,  and 
the  sky,  and  the  perfect  catenary  curve  of 
Mr.  Roebling's  cables. 

Dear  Father,"  Washington  Roeb- 
ling  wrote  from  the  Royal  Hotel 
in  London  on  July  19,  1867.  "Last 
Sunday,  I  paid  a  visit  to  the  two  Suspen- 


VIII         ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


John  Roebling's  Brst 

sketches  for  the  towers 

showed  an  elaborate 

Egyptian  doorway  with 

a  spread'eagled  gar' 

goyle,  and  two  varieties 

of  Roman  arch.  The 

Gothic  arch  at  right 

was  apparently  an  af' 

terthought.  Above, 

each  encrusted  in  dec' 

ades  of  paint,  a  vertical 

suspender  meets  a 

diagonal  stay. 


APRIL  1983        IX 


sion  Bridges  over  the  Thames — the  Lam- 
beth and  the  Chelsea  bridges.  The  former 
is  a  wire  rope  bridge  with  two  cables  on 
each  side  each  consisting  of  7  ropes  in  6 
X  6;  each  cable  is  nearly  6"  in  diam.  They 
are  painted  with  a  black  varnish  and  have 
the  cracks  in  the  upper  side  filled  up  with 
cement  to  shed  the  water  ..." 

Washington's  father  was  John  Roeb- 
ling.  who  planned  to  soon  build  the  long- 
est suspension  bridge  in  the  world.  It  would 
be  some  500  feet  longer  than  the  current 
recordholder.  one  he'd  also  built,  across 
the  Ohio  River  at  Cincinnati.  The  Brook- 
lyn Bridge  was  to  use,  for  the  first  time, 
cables  made  of  steel,  which  still  bordered 
on  being  an  experimental  material.  Its 
towers  would  be,  as  someone  would  put 
it  years  later,  "about  the  largest,  most 
massive  things  ever  built  on  the  entire 
North  American  continent."  They  were 
to  rest  on  immense  foundations,  102  feet 
by  162  feet  in  section,  built  using  a  new 
technique  involving  pneumatic  caissons — 
submerged  boxes  filled  with  compressed 
air  in  which  men  could  work  underwater. 
There  was  much,  though,  that  John 
Roebling  didn't  yet  know  about  caissons. 
So  in  the  spring  of  1867,  he  sent  his  son 
Washington  to  Europe,  with  his  new  wife 
Emily,  to  report  back  on  bridges  in  gen- 
eral and  on  caissons  in  particular. 

For  nine  months,  Washington's  long, 
detailed,  neatly  scribed  letters  arrived  at 
his  father's  big  house  in  Trenton,  New 
Jersey.  The  Roeblings,  apparently,  were 
neither  of  them  much  for  long  preambles 
or  elaborate  expressions  of  fond  feeling: 
Dear  father.  Washington's  letters  would 
invariably  begin.  Then  he'd  launch  di- 
rectly into  an  elaborate  treatment  of  Tel- 
ford's bridge  over  the  Menai  Strait,  or 
Brunei's  bridge  at  Clifton.  .  .  Kircaldy's 
materials  testing  machine  was  big  enough 
to  take  a  specimen  15  feet  long,  boasted 
a  theoretical  capacity  of  one  million  pounds 
.  .  .  The  caissons  he  saw  in  Koenigsberg, 
in  Germany,  each  had  a  large  dredging 
cylinder  in  the  middle  and  two  main  shafts 
...  At  the  Paris  Exposition,  he'd  seen 
12-inch  rolled  beams  55  feet  long  ...  He 
wrote  about  steel  works  he'd  seen  in  Man- 
chester and  in  Essen;  about  wiremaking 
and  the  latest  developments  in  metal- 
lurgy. And  he  reported  all  this  in  elabo- 
rate, no-nonsense  detail,  down  to  the  nuts 
and  bolts,  supplying  dimensions  and 
weights,  accompanying  the  text  with  little 
sketches  and  diagrams.  Yours  affection- 
ately, V/ash.  A.  Roebling,  he'd  sign  them. 

It  was  during  this  period  that  his  father 
drew  up  plans  for  the  great  bridge.  John 
Roebling  had  come  over  from  Muhlhau- 


Robert  Gough,  the 
city's  chief  engineer  for 
bridge  operations,  has 
hundreds  of  New  York 
City  bridges  in  his  care. 
This  one  gives  him  less 
trouble  than  most 


sen,  Germany  in  1831,  at  the  age  of  24, 
armed  with  a  diploma  from  Berlin's  pres- 
tigious Royal  Polytechnic  Institute.  His 
mind  burned  with  ideas.  He  was  im- 
mensely ambitious.  He  had  no  use  for  the 
bureaucracy  of  the  Old  World.  Back  there, 
he  wrote  in  his  diary,  nothing  could  be 
accomplished  "without  first  having  an  army 
of  government  councilors,  ministers,  and 
other  functionaries  deliberate  about  it  for 
ten  years,  make  numerous  expensive 
journeys  by  post,  and  write  so  many  long 
reports  about  it,  that  for  the  amount  ex- 
pended for  all  this,  reckoning  compound 
interest  for  ten  years,  the  work  could  have 
been  completed." 

With  other  German  immigrants,  Roeb- 
ling had  founded  Saxonburg,  a  kind  of 
Utopian  farming  community  in  western 
Pennsylvania.  The  first  house  to  go  up 
was  his  own  and,  as  one  biographer  has 
noted,  "like  everything  he  ever  built,  it 
was  built  to  last."  Saxonburg  was  mod- 
estly successful,  but  Roebling  himself  was 
an  engineer,  a  builder,  more  than  a  farmer, 
and  pretty  soon  he  was  building:  He  built 


dams  and  locks.  He  built  aqueducts.  He 
started  manufacturing  wire  rope,  using  a 
process  then  known  only  in  Europe;  ul- 
timately., he  moved  both  the  business  and 
his  family  back  east  to  Trenton.  He  built 
bridges,  invariably  of  the  suspension  va- 
riety. "Suspension  bridges  kind  of  tickled 
his  fancy  as  being  somehow  'natural'  in 
the  way  they  expressed  function  through 
form,"  says  Bob  Gough  of  Roebling.  He 
was,  by  all  accounts,  something  of  a  ge- 
nius, and  before  long  he'd  built  a  name 
for  himself  as  perhaps  the  pre-eminent 
bridge  engineer  in  America.  And  in  1867, 
in  the  space  of  three  months,  he  designed 
the  Brooklyn  Bridge. 

The  Brooklyn  Bridge  today  looks  just 
about  as  John  Roebling  thought  it  ought 
to  look.  It  is  built  where  he  said  it  should 
be  built.  And  it  stands  today  in  conform- 
ity to  calculations  he  performed  that  said 
it  ought  to  stand.  But  in  1869,  while  he 
and  son  Washington  were  at  a  ferry  slip 
inspecting  the  site  for  the  Brooklyn  tower, 
an  incoming  boat  caught  him  unawares 
and  crushed  his  foot.  Tetanus  set  in.  He 


X        ALUMNI  MA(3AZINE  CONSORTIUM 


died.  He  never  built  the  bridge  it  was  his 
dream  to  build. 

His  son  Washington — 32  at  the  time,  a 
Civil  War  hero,  one  of  the  earliest  grad- 
uates of  Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute 
and  an  accompHshed  bridge  engineer  in 
his  own  right,  fresh  from  his  "post-grad- 
uate" engineering  vacation  in  Europe — 
did  it  instead. 

From  the  time  in  late  1869  when  work- 
ers began  preparing  the  site  for  the 
Brooklyn  caisson  to  the  time  in  the  spring 
of  1883  when  the  bridge  was  opened,  14 
years  passed.  It  took  a  year  just  to  sink 
each  3,000-ton  caisson  into  the  bed  of  the 
river;  six  years  to  finish  the  towers,  each 
of  which  consumed  some  40,000  cubic 
yards  of  masonry  mined  from  no  less  than 
20  quarries;  two  years  to  spin  14,000  miles 
of  three-sixteenth-inch  diameter  wire  into 
the  four  great  cables. 

The  period  saw  the  revelation  of  scan- 
dal after  scandal,  with  many  more  whis- 
pered for  each  one  proved;  the  notorious 
Tweed  Ring  had,  after  all,  played  a  major 
role  in  gaining  a  go-ahead  for  the  bridge, 


and  commercial  interests  had  supplied  the 
prime  impetus  for  its  construction  all  along. 
To  this  day,  its  cables  contain  221  tons  of 
wire  that  had  been  rejected  by  inspec- 
tors— "brittle  as  glass,"  Washington 
Roebling  called  a  sample  of  the  stuff 
brought  to  his  attention — yet  surrepti- 
tiously diverted  to  bridge  use.  The  cost  of 
the  bridge  soared  from  the  $7  miUion  John 
Roebling  had  forecast  to  more  than  twice 
that  figure,  $15  miUion. 

During  construction,  a  fire  broke  out 
deep  in  the  Brooklyn  caisson  and,  fed  by 
air  under  pressure,  ate  into  the  caisson's 
wood  beam  roof  for  two  weeks  after  it 
was  thought  to  be  extinguished;  ulti- 
mately, the  fire  ate  almost  a  third  of  the 
way  through  the  15-foot  thick  roof.  The 
burned-out  sections  were  cleaned  out  and 
buttressed  with  wood  and  cement. 

A  mysterious  ailment,  "caisson  dis- 
ease," took  the  hves  of  three  workers  and 
caused  awful  cramps  and  convulsions  in 
many  others.  "The  bends,"  we  know  now, 
are  caused  by  nitrogen  boihng  up  from 
the  blood  upon  too  sudden  a  release  of 


pressure — which  is  just  what  the  men  ex- 
perienced upon  emerging  from  the  pres- 
surized caisson.  Eighteen  months  into  the 
project,  Washington  Roebling  was  him- 
self afflicted.  It  brought  him  close  to  death 
and  apparently  contributed  to  a  mysteri- 
ous nervous  affliction  which  turned  him 
into  a  recluse. 

All  of  Roebhng's  engineering  staff  but 
one  remained  on  the  job  the  entire  14 
years  it  took  to  finish  it.  During  most  of 
that  time,  the  Chief  Engineer  never  so 
much  as  set  foot  at  the  construction  site; 
he  worked  out  of  his  home  in  Brooklyn 
Heights.  His  wife  Emily  therefore  came 
to  play  a  key  role  in  the  day-to-day  con- 
duct of  the  work,  as  private  secretary  and 
the  relayer  of  his  directives,  as  interme- 
diary and  fence-builder,  deftly  parrying 
attacks  on  her  husband  and  his  plans. 
Along  the  way,  she  apparently  amassed 
considerable  engineering  knowledge.  "She 
became,"  as  bridge  scholar  David  Mc- 
CuUough  told  a  gathering  of  the  Rens- 
selaer Alumni  Association  a  few  years  ago, 
"as  accomplished  a  civil  engineer  as  any- 
body on  the  job.  And  in  fact,  toward  the 
end  she  was  actually  making  decisions — 
quite  good  decisions."  Today,  a  plaque 
on  the  bridge  acknowledges  her  impor- 
tant role. 

All  told,  20  men,  out  of  the  thousands 
who  at  various  times  worked  on  it,  were 
lost  to  the  bridge:  Three  men  died  in  falls 
from  towers.  A  man  named  Cope  died 
when  his  leg  got  wrapped  around  the  drum 
of  a  hoisting  engine.  A  carpenter  was  killed 
by  a  falling  stone  .  .  . 

But  in  the  end,  the  bridge  got  built. 

A  nineteenth-century  engineer  once 
calculated — he  was,  plainly,  trying 
b.to  make  a  point — that  to  cross  a 
hundred  foot  gorge,  you  could  step  out 
across  a  wrought  iron  bar  nine  inches  wide, 
27  inches  deep,  and  weighing  44  tons;  or 
else  you  could  shimmy  across  along  a  thin 
steel  wire  weighing  13  pounds.  A  suspen- 
sion bridge  is  little  more  than  many  such 
wires  from  which  a  roadway  is  slung. 

Indeed,  the  thing  about  a  suspension 
bridge  apt  to  leave  the  most  forcible 
impression  is  that  there's  not  much  to  it: 
So  little  does  so  much.  A  cantilever  bridge, 
like  that  spanning  the  Firth  of  Forth  in 
Scotland,  say,  is  a  grand  affair  with  trusses 
and  girders  and  beams  enough  to  darken 
the  sky.  The  same  goes  for  an  arch  bridge, 
like  the  Bayonne  Bridge  linking  Staten 
Island  to  New  Jersey:  They  look  substan- 
tial, crowded  with  strength.  A  suspension 
bridge,  on  the  other  hand,  especially  at  a 
distance,  seems  ethereal,  ephemeral,  Ut- 


APRIL  1983 


XI 


The  Douglas  Br  slats  of 
the  bridge  promenade, 
left,  are  soon  to  be  re' 
placed  by  a  durable 
South  American  wood 
called  greenheart, 
which  is  so  heavy  it 
won't  float.  Above,  a 
construction  detail — 
scavenged  from  the 
parts  drawer  of  a  Brob' 
dingnagian  mechanic! 


XII 


ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


tie  more  than  the  vine  suspended  across 
the  stream  that  bridge  historians  guess  was 
its  original  form. 

Now  consider  crossing  that  flimsy  trail 
of  vine  hand  over  hand:  The  dead  weight 
of  your  body  is  not  the  only  load  the  vine 
must  endure.  Because,  unlike  a  log  thrown 
across  a  stream,  the  vine  lacks  rigidity. 
Conceivably,  even  if  your  weight  would 
not  break  it,  by  slinging  yourself  across 
you  could  set  it  to  twisting  and  shaking 
and  thrashing  so  much  that  finally  it  would 
break. 

Which  is  just  about  what  can  happen 
with  a  suspension  bridge.  In  The  Great 
Bridge,  David  McCuUough  has  written 
what  is  arguably  the  definitive  work  on 
the  subject  of  the  Brooklyn  Bridge.  And 
in  it  he  notes  that  before  about  1855,  when 
John  Roebling  finished  a  suspension  bridge 
for  heavy  railroad  trains  across  the  821- 
foot  Niagara  Gorge,  "suspension  bridges 
had  a  dubious  reputation  ...  So  many  of 
them  had  come  crashing  down  over  the 
years,  and  frequently  with  tragic  conse- 
quences. In  England  in  1831  a  suspension 
bridge  had  collapsed  under  the  feet  of 
marching  troops  ...  In  France  in  1850 
another  wire  bridge  had  failed  under  al- 
most identical  circumstances,  killing  two 
hundred  men.  In  America  a  number  of 
small  suspension  bridges  had  collapsed 
under  droves  of  cattle."  What  was  more, 
McCullough  added,  "nobody  understood 
quite  why  these  things  happened." 

Indeed,  even  70  years  and  more  after 
John  Roebling  drew  up  plans  for  his  East 
River  masterpiece,  the  design  of  suspen- 
sion bridges  apparently  remained  tricky 
enough  that  one  across  the  Tacoma  Nar- 
rows in  Washington  state  thrashed  itself 
to  death  in  a  high  wind.  "Galloping  Ger- 
tie" set  bridge  engineers  scurrying  back 
to  their  drawing  boards  to  review  their 
designs,  subjecting  bridge  models  to  wind 
tunnel  tests,  and  even  reinforcing  existing 
bridges  against  wind-bred  oscillations.  The 
2300-foot  Bronx-Whitestone  Bridge  in 
New  York  was  one  suspension  span  that 
got  structural  reinforcements.  The  Golden 
Gate  Bridge  in  San  Francisco  was  an- 
other. By  this  time,  of  course,  the  Brook- 
lyn Bridge  had  already  weathered  a  half- 
century's  worth  of  gales  with  scarcely  a 
shiver  of  protest. 

Back  in  1854,  John  RoebHng  had  stud- 
ied the  collapse  of  a  suspension  bridge  in 
West  Virginia,  ascribing  it  to  a  lack  of 
structural  stiffness,  just  the  sort  on  which 
the  Tacoma  Narrows  disaster  would  later 
be  blamed.  Accordingly,  when  it  came 
time  to  plan  the  Brooklyn  Bridge  he  was 
not,  as  he  wrote  in  his  proposal  for  it, 


"disposed  to  underrate  the  great  force  of 
a  severe  gale,  when  directed  toward  the 
suspended  work,  and  I  am  also  fully  aware 
that  herein  lies  the  great  danger  to  all 
Suspension  Bridges  of  ordinary  design." 
His  design,  he  hastened  to  add,  was  not 
ordinary. 

"To  guard  against  vertical  and  horizon- 
tal oscillations,"  he  wrote,  "and  to  insure 
that  degree  of  Stiffness  in  the  flooring 
which  is  absolutely  necessary  to  meet  the 
effects  of  violent  gales  in  such  an  exposed 
situation,  I  have  provided  six  Hnes  of  trusses 
.  .  ."In  fact,  he  declared,  the  whole  bridge 
could  be  regarded  as  "a  huge  truss  of  1600 
feet  span,  and  of  a  depth  of  150  ft.  The 
Towers  form  one  supporting  element,  the 
framing  of  the  floor  forms  the  second,  and 
the  extensive  system  of  stays  forms  the 
third." 

The  diagonal  stays  to  which  he  referred 
radiate  out  from  the  top  of  each  tower 
and  help  support  the  roadway.  In  a  bold 
exercise  of  conceptual  salesmanship  in- 
tended to  point  up  the  strength  built  into 
his  design,  he  asked  his  readers  to  imagine 
the  four  supporting  cables  removed  en- 
tirely! Thanks  to  the  stays,  he  claimed, 
"the  bridge  would  sink  in  the  centre,  but 
would  not  fall." 

In  an  1898  article  in  Railroad  Gazette, 
Roebling's  son  Washington  would  cast 
doubt  on  the  merits  of  stay  construction. 


neighbors,  the  Manhattan  and  the  Wil- 
liamsburg bridges:  "The  thing  just  sits 
there." 

In  his  proposal  for  the  Brooklyn 
Bridge,  John  Roebling  predicted  that 
"its  most  conspicuous  features,  the 
great  Towers,  will  serve  as  landmarks  to 
the  adjoining  cities,  &  they  will  be  enti- 
tled to  be  ranked  as  national  monuments. 
As  a  great  work  of  art,  &  as  a  successful 
specimen  of  advanced  Bridge  Engineer- 
ing, this  structure  will  forever  testify  to 
the  energy,  enterprise  &  wealth  of  that 
Community  which  shall  secure  its  erec- 
tion." 

Not  only  that,  he  might  have  forecast 
with  equal  confidence,  the  bridge  would 
be  easy  to  keep  clean. 

Roebling  was  "very  smart  about  de- 
tails," says  Bob  Gough.  "And  as  Mies  van 
der  Rohe  once  said,  'God  is  in  the  details.' 
Every  detail  of  the  Brooklyn  Bridge  is 
really  well  thought  out  and  executed." 
Rain,  he  reports,  "hits  it  and  rolls  off  .  .  . 
There  are  no  pools  of  sitting  water,  no 
drains  to  clog  and  back  up  and  cause  rot 
in  the  structure."  The  bridge  is  easy  to 
maintain.  "There's  nothing  in  it  that  is 
complex.  It's  just  nuts  and  bolts.  I  think 
that's  why  people  have  an  affinity  for  the 
bridge.  Everything  is  so  simple."  So  spare. 
And  despite  the  bridge's  structural  rigid- 


To  shoot  this  50'year' 
old  photo  today,  you'd 
have  to  pay  the  city 
$2  7  an  hour  each  for 
the  two  ironworkers 
needed  to  take  you  up 
a  cable  to  the  top  of 
one  of  the  towers.  It's 
the  only  way  up,  and 
always  has  been. 


"The  theoretic  complications  introduced 
by  stays  are  so  numerous,"  he  wrote,  "that 
probably  no  engineer  would  venture  to 
use  them,  even  for  the  sake  of  stiffness." 
Of  course  that  was  years  later.  And  the 
fact  is,  whatever  the  scientific  shortcom- 
ings of  his  father's  reasoning,  the  strength 
and  solidity  of  the  structure  are  incon- 
testable. As  Bob  Gough  says  in  com- 
paring it,  favorably,  to  its  East  River 


ity,  reports  Gough,  it  is  exceedingly  light — 
just  four  tons  per  linear  foot,  as  compared 
to  14  tons  per  foot  for  the  "clunky"  Wil- 
Hamsburg  Bridge,  and  12  for  the  Man- 
hattan. Which  means  that  much  less  to 
paint  and  keep  up. 

Gough  occupies  a  large  corner  office  in 
an  old  office  building  on  Worth  Street,  in 
lower  Manhattan.  With  its  banks  of  big 
windows,  it  ought  to  be  bathed  in  light. 


APRIL  1983 


XIII 


But  the  walls  are  painted  brown,  and  the 
windows  are  covered  with  drawn  Vene- 
tian blinds,  and  there's  a  big  bulletin  board 
that  obstructs  one  of  them  almost  en- 
tirely. For  two  hours  this  morning  Gough 
has  patiently  answered  questions  about 
the  bridge,  supplying  a  capsule  history, 
giving  details  of  its  construction.  And  now 
it  seems  he's  had  enough:  The  bridge  awaits 
us. 

A  ten-story  elevator  descent  and  a  ten- 
minute  walk  through  lunch-hour  streets, 
and  we're  out  on  the  bridge,  walking  up 
the  incUned  concrete  approach  to  the 
bridge  proper.  Gough,  in  his  sky-blue 
mountain  parka  and  his  tweed  cap,  at  last 
freed  from  the  constraints  of  the  office, 
seems  visibly  looser,  more  at  home.  "You 
want  to  see  the  cable?"  he  asks  as  we 
approach  the  steps  leading  up  to  the 
promenade. 

Abruptly,  he  swings  a  leg  over  the  rail- 
ing that  separates  the  promenade  from 
the  swarms  of  cars  barreling  down  the 
roadway.  I  follow.  We  have  to  inch  along 
a  narrow  curb,  maybe  ten  or  twelve  inches 
wide,  as  three  lanes  of  cars  whiz  by  beside 
us.  They  think  we're  nuts,  I  think,  a  pair 
of  New  York  crazies  playing  in  the  traffic. 
But  then  we  scurry  off  the  curb  and  under 
the  promenade  into  the  underbelly  of  the 
bridge.  "Watch  your  head!"  says  Gough 
as  we  clamber  under  and  around  the  steel- 
work. Under  trusses,  down  ladders,  along 
catwalks,  and  then  we  are  there — that 
magic  junction,  that  place  of  focused 
power,  where  the  mathematical  abstrac- 
tion that  is  the  catenary  curve  dissolves 
into  spaghetti  bundles  of  wires.  Here,  out 
of  the  wire-wrapped  sheathing  of  the  ca- 
ble emerge  19  distinct  strands,  each  con- 
sisting of  278  individual  wires.  Here  in  this 
narrow,  confining,  limestone-lined  vault — 
"the  cable  pit,"  Gough  calls  it — the  lines, 
of  force  of  some  engineering  diagram  are 
transmuted  into  steel. 

Later,  coming  back  out  of  the  cable  pit, 
I  inspect  the  underside  of  the  bridge.  It 
is  impossibly  straightforward,  transparent 
in  its  workings.  The  whole  thing  is  put 
together  like  a  child's  erector  set,  its  nuts 
and  bolts  scavenged  from  some  Brob- 
dingnagian  mechanic.  The  main  cables,  I 
notice,  are  attached  to  the  wire  rope  sus- 
penders with  a  coupling  that  looks  just  as 
it  might  in  a  quick,  offhand  sketch  in- 
tended to  show  the  concept  of  the  coup- 
ling: a  rounded  band  of  metal  with  a  hole 
in  it.  Another  piece  into  which  the  sus- 
penders fit,  also  with  a  hole  through  it. 
The  whole  assembly  is  fastened  together 
with  a  big  nut  and  a  big  bolt:  What  you 
see  is  what  you  get. 


Simple,  straightforward  design  of- 
fers no  guarantee  of  perfection, 
however:  In  1901, 18  years  after  the 
bridge's  completion,  Washington  Roeb- 
Ung  wrote  to  John  Shea,  then  Commis- 
sioner of  Bridges  for  the  Borough  of  Man- 
hattan, "Two  adjacent  suspender  rods 
seem  to  have  been  broken  for  some  time 
past,"  he  said.  "I  learn  also  that  single 
suspension  rods  have  broken  on  previous 
occasions." 

In  the  Brooklyn  Bridge,  the  cables  sup- 
port the  bridge  roadway  by  three  distinct 
means.  Along  most  of  its  length,  the  road- 
way hangs  from  wire  rope  suspenders.  For 
a  brief  stretch  where  the  cables  dip  under 
the  road  near  each  anchorage,  it  actually 
sits  on  the  cables.  Finally,  around  mid- 
span,  the  roadway  hangs  from  solid  steel 
rods.  And  these  suspender  rods,  as  Bob 
Gough  says,  "have  been  cracking  since 
the  bridge  was  built.  We've  got  reports 
going  back  to  1890."  (His  men  keep  re- 
placement blanks  on  hand  that  can  be  cut 
to  size  when  a  cracked  one  is  found.) 

In  his  letter  to  the  bridge  commissioner, 
Washington  Roebling  wrote  that  "the  true 
cause  of  their  fracture  [is  not]  far  to  seek." 
The  roadway  trusses  to  which  they  attach 
at  a  slip  joint  move  as  the  bridge  expands 
and  contracts  with  the  weather.  Appar- 
ently the  freedom  of  motion  built  into  the 
joint  was  insufficient.  Roebhng  had  a  fix 
in  mind,  he  told  the  commissioner.  But 
no  one,  it  seems,  ever  acted  upon  it. 

In  any  event,  this  nagging  Uttle  problem 
is  at  last  being  treated.  In  1978,  the  firm 
of  Steinman,  Boynton,  Gronquist  &  Bird- 
sail  was  hired  to  inspect  the  bridge  and 
draw  up  any  rehabilitation  plans  neces- 
sary. A  Steinman  engineer  who  wishes 
not  to  give  his  name  said  that  the  inspec- 
tion, carried  out  in  the  summer  of  1979, 
did  reveal  three  or  four  broken  suspender 
rods.  Some  thought  was  given  to  replacing 
the  solid  suspenders  with  the  kind  of  wire 
rope  suspenders  used  elsewhere  on  the 
bridge.  But  that,  he  said,  would  allow  the 
structure  too  much  flex.  What's  being  done 
instead  is  to  replace  the  existing  slip  joints, 
or  trunnions — which  permit  only  longi- 
tudinal swing  of  the  rods — with  spherical 
bearings  that  can  accommodate  to  motion 
in  any  direction. 

Other  rehabilitation  measures  are  in 
store  for  the  bridge,  among  them: 

•  The  cable  pit  will  be  opened  up  to 
permit  easier  maintenance  of  the  cable. 
Broken  wires,  in  what  the  Steinman  en- 
gineer terms  "a  delicate  operation,"  will 
be  replaced. 

•  The  New  York  and  Brooklyn  towers 
will  be  protected  with  cofferdams. 


•  Wire  rope  suspenders  and  stays  will 
be  replaced. 

•  The  bridge  will  get  a  paint  job. 
After  that,  said  the  Steinman  man,  the 

bridge  may  be  good  for  another  100  years. 

Maybe.  Anthony  Atheling,  for 
one,  is  not  so  sanguine. 
For  years,  Atheling  worked 
mostly  abroad — in  Thailand,  Brazil,  Li- 
beria. Saudi  Arabia,  and  elsewhere — on 
big  construction  projects.  He  worked  on 
harbors,  bridges,  roads.  Then,  he  says,  "I 
got  tired  of  working  overseas.  I  thought 
I  would  sort  of  redomesticate  myself."  So 
three  years  ago,  he  took  a  job  as  Acting 
Engineer-in-Charge  in  the  Division  of 
Bridge  Operations  of  the  City  of  New 
York's  Department  of  Transportation, 
East  River  Bridges  Section.  His  boss  is 
Bob  Gough.  And  while  Gough  is  respon- 
sible for  all  the  city's  bridges,  Atheling 
cares  solely  for  the  four  big  bridges,  in- 
cluding the  Brooklyn,  that  span  the  East 
River. 

But  now,  at  age  55,  all  he's  looking  for 
is  the  chance  to  get  out. 

He  was  born  in  Youngstown,  Ohio, 
raised  in  Brooklyn.  Brooklyn  is  where  he 
is  now,  at  390  Kent  Avenue,  the  home  of 
East  River  Bridges;  you  can  see  three  of 
them  from  his  window,  the  Williamsburg 
looming  just  outside.  He  has  brown,  al- 
most Oriental  eyes,  set  deep  into  a  gaunt, 
high  cheekboned  face.  It  is  an  unforget- 
table face,  and  right  now  it  is  angry.  Over 
the  telephone,  he'd  seemed  merely  tired, 
resigned.  But  seeing  him  in  person,  you 
realize  his  feelings  go  much  deeper. 

At  first,  he  is  coolly  official.  His  job  is 
to  maintain  the  four  East  River  bridges, 
he  says,  adding:  "In  theory."  Because  the 
fact  is,  he  says  reluctantly,  his  department 
has  been  reduced  to  "a  reaction  squad." 
His  work  force  is  "pretty  well  decimated. 
It  used  to  be  about  120,  but  I  don't  sup- 
pose there  are  more  than  70  now."  Now, 
all  he  and  his  thinned-out  staff  can  do  is 
react  to  citizen  complaints  as  they  arise. 
Regular  maintenance  of  the  bridges,  any 
of  the  bridges,  is  out.  "Now,"  he  says, 
"we're  not  much  more  than  janitors." 

Yes,  he  admits,  the  city  has  been  faced 
with  the  most  serious  budget  crisis  in  its 
crisis-ridden  history,  with  every  depart- 
ment forced  to  endure  brutal  cuts.  But 
don't  they  realize,  he  asks,  that  while 
"you're  saving  maintenance  dollars,  sooner 
or  later  you  have  to  make  it  up  with  a 
capital  outlay?" 

But  money  and  manpower  are  not  the 
whole  problem.  There  is  a  crisis  of  mo- 
rale.  Bureaucratic  and  political  factors 


XIV        ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


Above,  the  limestone' 

lined  cable  pit,  where 

the  cable's  19  strands 

of  galvanized  steel  wire 

are  anchored.  At  right, 

the  Bridge  is  dwarfed 

by  the  Manhattan  sky' 

line.  A  hundred  years 

ago,  only  the  spire  of 

the  old  Trinity 

Church  loomed  over 

the  bridge's  27 6' foot 

towers. 


APRIL  1983        XV 


make  it  impossible,  he  claims,  for  his  men 
to  do  their  jobs.  An  organizational  re- 
shuffling some  years  back  pulled  Bridges 
out  of  Public  Works  and  into  Highways — 
which  is  run,  he  says  with  thinly  veiled 
contempt,  by  mere  "laborers."  Taking  care 
of  a  complex  structure  like  a  bridge,  John 
RoebUng's  or  any  other,  demands  elec- 
tricians, oilers,  carpenters — skilled  crafts- 
men. But  in  the  new  set-up,  AtheUng  says. 


City-organized  bridges  maintenance  sec- 
tion is  not  to  be  provided  with  such  easily 
accessible  machine  shop  facilities,"  he'd 
written  at  the  time,  "then  the  time  might 
have  arrived,  at  last,  for  the  city  to  sell 
the  Brooklyn  Bridge  to  someone  who  can 
properly  care  for  it." 

He  looks  up,  angrily:  "The  administra- 
tors make  the  decisions  here,  not  the  en- 
gineers, not  the  craftsmen  .  .  .  What  suits 


Suddenly,  on  May  24,  1883,  Brooklyn 
was  just  a  five'tninute  train  ride  away. 
But  even  in  1925  shown  here,  the  ferries  still  ran. 


he's  got  master  carpenters  who  have  to 
report  to  people  who  are  little  more  than 
pothole  fillers  risen  up  through  the  ranks. 
"They  don't  know  a  freaking  thing  about 
bridges!"  It  leaves  his  men  angry,  de- 
moralized. One  of  them,  in  the  office  while 
Atheling  is  talking,  nods  his  head  in 
agreement. 

Why.  he  can't  so  much  as  order  the 
logbooks  his  foremen  need,  he  laments — 
though  they  form  part  of  his  department's 
legal  record;  they  were  deleted  from  his 
budget  request.  Loose  slats  on  the  Brook- 
lyn Bridge  promenade  went  undetected, 
he'd  written  in  an  intradepartmental  memo 
just  a  few  days  before,  "because  of  end- 
less diversion  of  the  East  River  Bridges 
carpenters  to  non-bridge  work,  such  as 
.  .  .  remodeling  of  40  Worth  Street  offices 
and  erecting  of  temporary  fencing  around 
an  archeological  "dig.'  "  Oh,  and  what 
about  that  wire  rope  stay  that  snapped  a 
while  back,  killing  a  Japanese  photogra- 
pher? "Nobody  is  accountable!" 

Me  wants  to  do  his  job,  Atheling  insists, 
"but  I  have  neither  the  people  nor  the 
equipment  to  do  it."  He  shuffles  amongst 
his  papers  for  a  memo  he'd  written  a  cou- 
ple of  years  before,  complaining  that  his 
department  was  having  trouble  gaining 
access  to  basic  machine  shop  equipment 
traditionally  under  its  jurisdiction.  "If  the 


them  in  their  management  is  what  decides 
the  lifeblood  of  the  whole  freaking  city 
.  .  .  The  engineers  are  handcuffed." 

But  1883  was  a  different  age.  It  was 
the  age  of  the  engineer.  It  was  a 
time  when,  as  David  McCullough 
has  written,  to  Americans  "a  bridge 
seemed  such  a  magnificent  example  of 
man's  capacity  to  master  the  forces  of  na- 
ture .  .  .  Building  a  bridge  seemed  such 
a  clean,  heroic  thing  for  a  man  to  do." 

The  day  after  John  Roebling's  funeral 
in  1869,  the  Brooklyn  Eagle  commented: 
"The  great  boast  of  this  land  is  twofold — 
the  political  works  of  the  [Founding] 
Fathers,  and  the  material  triumphs  of  sci- 
ence, of  which  Roebling  was,  with  scarcely 
any  exception,  the  greatest  hero  .  .  .  One 
such  life  as  Roebling's  was  worth  more 
than  those  of  a  whole  convention  full  of 
jabbering  and  wrangling  politicians." 

John  Roebling  was  the  kind  of  man  who, 
when  he  came  over  on  the  boat  from  Ger- 
many, was  up  early  every  morning,  learn- 
ing "the  name  of  every  sail,  every  stay, 
brace,  bowline,  halyard,  every  rope  and 
how  each  one  worked.  And  he  made  dia- 
grams to  be  sure  he  understood."  That 
was  how  David  McCullough  saw  him  re- 
vealed in  his  diary  of  the  voyage.  He  was 
the  kind  of  man  for  whom,  as  his  son 


would  write  after  his  death,  "the  question 
.  .  .  was  never  how  to  do  a  thing,  but 
which  method  to  select  of  the  number  that 
occurred  to  him  .  .  .  The  originality  of  his 
mind  was  such  as  to  forbid  it  from  imi- 
tating even  itself."  He  was  a  dreamer,  a 
thinker,  a  builder,  a  doer. 

Not  that  he  was  an  innocent.  He  knew 
how  power  worked.  He'd  managed  to 
make  plenty  of  money.  And  he  knew  how 
to  sell.  Indeed,  he  was  the  first  person  to 
"sell"  the  Brooklyn  Bridge. 

In  his  1867  proposal,  he  appealed  to  the 
innate  conservativeness  of  businessmen 
skeptical  of  a  potentially  risky  engineer- 
ing feat:  The  cable  cars  he  planned  to  run 
across  the  bridge  represented  a  technol- 
ogy "perfectly  simple  and  perfectly  well 
understood.  There  is  no  novel  feature  and 
no  experiment  involved  in  this  arrange- 
ment." He  appealed  to  their  ideals.  He 
appealed  to  their  imaginations.  He  ap- 
pealed to  their  pocketbooks.  The  ferries 
then  plying  the  East  River  between 
Brooklyn  and  New  York  would  be  placed 
in  financial  jeopardy  by  the  bridge?  Not 
at  all,  he  said,  there'd  be  plenty  of  busi- 
ness for  everybody.  The  bridge  would  "not 
set  up  a  dangerous  rivalry  to  the  existing 
Ferry  interest."  Rather,  it  would  create 
business.  Even  aesthetic,  or  what  we'd 
call  today  urban  renewal,  concerns  did 
not  escape  his  attention.  "This  work  will 
greatly  beautify  and  improve  [the  area 
around  the  New  York  terminal]  which  ap- 
pears to  need  it  more  than  any  other." 

It  was  a  model  of  high-minded  sales- 
manship, at  once  practical,  thorough, 
confident,  technically  imaginative,  and 
frankly  commercial.  It  was  a  sales  pro- 
posal, yes.  But  it  was  the  sales  proposal 
of  a  visionary,  a  man  of  values  and  ideals, 
rather  than  that  of  a  door-to-door  sales- 
man. There  is  a  powerful  imagination  at 
work  in  it,  one  single-mindedly  intent  on 
having  other  eyes  see  what  his  did,  other 
minds  grasp  his  vision. 

And  the  fact  is,  he  was  right  in  his 
promises  and  predictions,  over  and  over 
again.  The  cable  cars  worked  fine.  The 
ferries  did  indeed  prosper;  the  last  of  them 
wasn't  withdrawn  from  service  until  1942. 
He  predicted  New  York  would  overtake 
London  and  Liverpool  as  a  commercial 
center.  And  it  did.  He  said  tunnels  would 
one  day  be  sunk  under  the  East  River. 
And  they  were. 

"The  contemplated  Work,  when  con- 
structed in  accordance  with  my  designs, 
will  not  only  be  the  greatest  Bridge  in 
existence,  but  it  will  be  the  great  Engi- 
neering Work  of  this  Continent  &  of  the 
Age."  And  it  was. 


XVI        ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


JacksonL.  Dur/cee,  '43: 
His  Cables  Bridge  the  World 


-A 


t  company  meetings  and 
public  hearings,  I'm  what's 
known  as  the  elbow  man. 
When  someone  turns  to  the  guy  at  his 
elbow  for  counsel  on  a  sticky  technical 
question,  I'm  that  guy." 

As  a  consulting  structural  engineer, 
Jackson  L.  Durkee,  '43  CE,  '51  PCE,  has 
served  as  elbow  man  scores  of  times,  from 
hearings  on  the  Kansas  City  Hyatt  Re- 
gency Hotel  skywalk  failure,  to  the  cur- 
rent rehabilitation  of  New  York  City's  four 
East  River  bridges,  including  the  century- 
old  Brooklyn  Bridge. 

In  public  works  projects,  he  says,  it's 
common  to  bring  in  experts  to  advise  on 
technical  questions.  In  the  case  of  the  NYC 
bridge  rehabilitation,  he  counsels  the  NYC 
Department  of  Transportation,  reviewing 
the  feasibility  studies,  tests,  specifications 
and  reports  of  the  bridge  rehabilitation 
engineers  and  contractors. 

"Engineering  decisions,"  he  says,  "are 
not  always  cut-and-dried.  For  example, 
three  consulting  engineers  will  render  three 
distinct  opinions  on  a  given  question.  All 
this  is  quite  legitimate  and  necessary." 
After  all,  he  adds,  when  your  dentist  rec- 
ommends bridgework  (the  pun  was  irre- 
sistible), you'd  be  wise  to  get  the  opinions 
of  a  couple  of  other  specialists  before  pro- 
ceeding. 

Normally,  consultants'  reputations  are 
decades  in  the  making.  Durkee's  28  years 
as  chief  construction  engineer  at  Bethle- 
hem Steel,  the  last  ten  of  them  as  chief 
bridge  engineer,  and  his  participation  on 
many  of  the  world's  most  ambitious  con- 
struction projects  are  why  his  counsel  is 
today  in  such  great  demand.  He  has  been 
"totally  immersed"  in  seven  suspension 
and  scores  of  other  bridge  projects,  in- 
cluding the  Tacoma  Narrows  Bridge  sec- 
ond span,  Philadelphia's  Walt  Whitman 
Bridge,  Florida's  Sunshine  Skyway,  and 
the  gargantuan  maintenance  hangars  at' 
Jan  Smuts  airport  in  Johannesburg.  He  is 
also  consulting  on  the  projected  Messina 
Strait  suspension  bridge  linking  the  Ital- 
ian mainland  with  Sicily.  "Under  consid- 
eration for  more  than  20  years,"  he  re- 


The  1982  winner  of  ASCE's  gold  medal 
for  structural  engineering. 

ports,  "the  Messina  project — consisting 
of  a  single  span  of  10,827  feet,  and  1,250- 
foot  towers  to  be  built  on  earthquake- 
prone  strata — is  my  greatest  challenge  to 
date." 

But  Durkee  is  best  known  for  devel- 
oping and  applying  a  revolutionary  sus- 
pension-bridge cable  system  that  uses  par- 
allel-wire strands  (PWS)  rather  than  the 
traditional  helical  configuration.  In  fact, 
lifelong  advancement  of  bridge  design  and 
his  PWS  breakthrough  have  won  him  the 
1982  Earnest  E.  Howard  Award,  the  gold 
medal  of  structural  engineering,  which  is 
given  by  the  American  Society  of  Civil 
Engineers  (ASCE).  In  winning  the  How- 
ard, Durkee  joins  a  host  of  distinguished 
bridge  designers,  including  David  Stein- 
man  and  O.H.  Ammann.  "I  feel  out- 
classed by  the  past  recipients,"  he  says, 
adding,  "but  I  decided  not  to  turn  down 
the  award." 

It  was  in  1959,  while  standing  atop  a 
bridge  tower,  gazing  at  a  suspension  ca- 
ble, that  Durkee  had  the  idea  of  making 
strands  having  parallel  (rather  than  heli- 


cal) alignment  for  use  in  construction  of 
suspension-bridge  cables. 

This — a  breakthrough?  Certainly,  when 
you  consider  that  the  strength-to-mass 
characteristics  of  PWS  cable  are  consid- 
erably greater  than  in  helical-strand  ca- 
bles. PWS  cables  also  combine  the  erec- 
tion advantages  of  helical-strand  with  the 
superior  in-place  characteristics  of  par- 
allel-wire cables.  Developed  in  the  late 
1960s,  PWS  cable  suddenly  rendered  ob- 
solescent the  traditional  "aerial  spinning" 
method  of  bridge  cable  construction  de- 
veloped 125  years  earlier  by  John  Roe- 
bling,  designer  of  the  Brooklyn  and  other 
bridges  of  the  day. 

Completed  in  1969,  the  Newport  (RI) 
Bridge  was  the  first  suspension  bridge  to 
use  Durkee's  PWS  cables.  Others  fol- 
lowed; for  example,  the  second  Chesa- 
peake Bay  Bridge  and  the  many-spanned 
suspension  bridges  of  Japan's  vast  Hon- 
shu-Shikoku  crossing  project. 

In  spite  of  his  global  reputation,  Dur- 
kee's consulting  engineering  firm  is  a  one- 
man  show  run  from  his  home  in  Bethle- 
hem, PA.  Naturally,  he  calls  upon  spe- 
cialty sub-consultants  as  his  commissions 
dictate.  "It  keeps  the  perspective  fresh," 
he  says. 

"Engineering  is  not  merely  grinding 
numbers  and  coming  up  with  textbook  an- 
swers to  physical  problems."  More  im- 
portant, he  contends,  " — and  far  more 
difficult — we  must  apply  our  accumulated 
judgment  to  the  practical  implementation 
of  these  numerical  solutions." 

Though  he  recently  turned  60,  Durkee 
believes  his  best  years  lie  ahead.  "I'm 
shooting  to  be  a  scratch  golfer,  for  one 
thing."  (When  his  work  takes  him  to  the 
British  Isles,  he  plays  the  famous  Old 
Course  at  St.  Andrews,  Scotland.)  Ca- 
reer-wise, until  now,  he  says  with  char- 
acteristic understatement,  "  'the  past  is 
prologue.'  The  next  20  years  should  be  a 
bit  more  productive." 

Durkee's  '43  classmates  will  be  back  on 
campus  in  force  for  their  40th  reunion  June 
2-5.  ASCE's  gold  medal  winner  plans  to 
be  among  them.  Says  he,  "Save  me  a  seat!" 


APRIL  1983 


25 


W'PI  Alumni  Association 

President.  Peter  H.  Horstmann,  '55 
Senior  Vice  President, 

Harr)  W.  Tenney.  Jr..  "56 
Vice  President, 

Donald  E.  Ross,  '54 
Secretary-Treasurer. 

Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66 
Past  President,  John  H.  McCabe,  '68 

Executive  Committee 
members-at-iarge 

Henry  P.  AUessio,  '61;  Philip  B.  Ryan,  '65; 
John  M.  McHugh,  '56;  Anson  C.  Fyler,  '45. 

Fund  Board 

Henry  Styskal,  Jr.,  '50,  chair;  Richard  B.  Ken- 
nedy, '65,  vice  chair;  Gerald  Finkle,  '57;  Allen 
H.  Levesque,  '59;  Philip  H.  Puddington,  '59; 
Richard  A.  Davis,  '53;  C.  John  Lindegren,  '39; 
John  M.  Tracy,  '52. 


1923 


Reunion 


1926 


June  2-5,  1983 


"Hap"  Wendin  writes,  "We  have  just  returned 
from  a  seven-week  cruise  to  Micronesia  and 
have  settled  down  to  another  winter  program 
of  playing  and  directing  duplicate  bridge,  the 
lapidary  shop  and  Spanish  classes."  During  the 
past  year,  he  has  talked  with  Phil  Delphos,  Ar- 
mand  Paquette  and  Chandler  Jones  and  has 
spent  a  few  days  with  Ken  Archibald. 


1928 


Reunion 


1930 


June  2-5,  1983 


Last  summer  Betty  and  'Gene  Center  took  the 
overnight  ferry  from  Portland,  ME,  to  Yar- 
mouth, Nova  Scotia.  They  then  traveled  along 
the  Fundy  coast  to  Halifax  and  followed  the 
"beautiful  Cabot  Trail."  Other  highlights  were 
visits  to  Baddeck  and  the  Alexander  Graham 
Bell  museum,  old  Fort  Louisbourg,  New 
Brunswick-Moncton  and  St.  John. 


1933 


Reunion 


1935 


June  2-5,  1983 


Al  Cantor  retired  from  the  heavy  construction 
industry  in  the  fall  of  1981,  only  to  become 
active  in  it  again  in  June  of  1982.  For  45  years 
he  has  supervised  the  construction  of  bridges, 
piers,  dry  docks  and  dredging. 

Austin  Coates  reports  that  just  prior  to  his 
retirement  from  Heald  Machine,  Worcester, 
he  worked  on  a  project  involving  the  shaping 
of  the  ball  joint  for  hip  replacements. 

Jack  Healy  continues  as  president  of  the 
Newburyport  (MA)  Maritime  Society.  Re- 
cently he  retired  as  senior  engineer  from  Lib- 
erty Mutual  Insurance  Company  and  now  does 
some  consulting  as  a  registered  professional  en- 
gineer. Last  spring,  the  Healys  and  the  Fred 
Swans  took  a  jungle  cruise  up  the  Orinoco  River 
in  Venezuela. 

Vern  Olson  writes  that  he  plans  to  attend  the 
50th  reunion  in  1985.  Now  retired  from  Du 
Pont,  he  enjoys  travel,  singing  in  the  church 
choir  and  working  with  the  United  Way,  as  well 
as  golf  and  fishing. 

Ray  Starrett  and  his  wife,  Barbara,  after  going 
the  RV  route  throughout  the  U.S.,  are  now 
considering  selling  their  motor  home.  They  have 
retired  to  Florida,  but  spend  the  summers  in 
North  Conway,  NH. 

Homer  Morrison,  Class  Secretary 


1936 


A  spring  tour  of  England,  Scotland  and  Ireland 
was  enjoyed  by  the  James  Ethiers  last  year,  as 
well  as  a  fall  U.S.  auto  trip  on  the  new  highway 
through  the  Cascades  National  Park. 

Scott  Goodwin  and  his  wife  do  volunteer  work 
one  day  each  week  at  a  nursing  home  in  Hart- 
ford, CT.  Scott  has  also  been  helping  his  son- 
in-law  build  a  garage  and  office  addition  to  his 
home. 

Last  June  the  Ed  Guilds  attended  his  50th 
high  school  reunion  in  Amesbury,  MA.  They 
recently  visited  their  daughter  in  New  Jersey 
and  took  a  trip  to  Las  Vegas.  Ed  still  takes 
part-time  assignments  at  Reynolds  Metals. 

The  Hamilton  Gurnhams  have  been  enjoy- 
ing their  self-contained  motor  home  while  on 
an  extended  15,(KX)-mile  trip  through  34  states 
and  5  Canadian  provinces.  Last  fall  they  spent 
a  week  in  Myrtle  Beach,  SC.  with  Harry  An- 
derson, Perry  Clark  and  Harold  Whitman.  They 
also  got  together  with  Richard  Merriam  and 


Leonard  Humphrey,  '35,  and  Herbert  Gale,  '34. 

Harold  F.  Henrickson,  Class  Secretary 


1938 


Reunion 


June  2-5,  1983 


Currently,  Werner  Held  teaches  math  part  time 
at  the  University  of  Montana. 

Albert  KuUas,  who  recently  retired  from 
Martin  Marietta  Corp.,  now  has  his  own  con- 
sulting firm.  He  offers  service  in  general  man- 
agement, systems  engineering  and  computer 
applications. 

Now  on  the  road  to  recovery  following  open- 
heart  surgery,  A.  George  Mallis  does  some  con- 
sulting work  and  remains  active  in  the  field  of 
numismatics.  His  book  concerning  the  Morgan 
and  Peace  dollars  of  the  United  States  has  sold 
more  than  15,000  copies  and  is  the  standard 
reference  on  the  subject. 

Malcolm  SafTord  and  his  wife.  Hazel,  enjoy 
trailer  travel.  Last  year  they  went  to  the  World's 
Fair  in  Knoxville  and  on  to  Mark  Twain  coun- 
try in  Hannibal,  MO,  and  to  the  Kentucky  Horse 
Park  in  Lexington. 

The  Bob  Tafts  are  still  living  in  Naples,  FL, 
where  they  play  golf  about  four  times  a  week. 

Francis  Witkege  writes  that  he  is  learning  to 
play  the  piano  and  hopes  to  "get  into  some 
creative  writing." 

Walter  E.  Knapp,  Class  Secretary 


1940 


Bob  Hewey  is  now  fully  retired  as  vice  president 
from  Sprague  Meter  Division  of  Textron,  Inc. 
He  writes:  "My  principal  outside  interest  is  with 
the  Service  Corps  of  Retired  Executives 
(SCORE),  a  branch  of  the  Small  Business 
Administration." 


1943 


Reunion 


1944 


June  2-5,  1983 


David  Field  has  retired  from  Boeing  Vertol  Co., 
Philadelphia. 

Everett  Johnson  has  been  named  as  an  as- 
sociate director  of  Petroleum  Research  in  Tex- 
aco's  newly  restructured  Research,  Environ- 
ment and  Safety  Department  in  Beacon,  NY. 
After   holding  research,   administration  and 


26        WPI  JOURNAL 


managerial  positions  with  the  firm,  he  was  ap- 
pointed manager  of  the  Beacon  Research  Lab- 
oratories in  1978. 


1945 


Paul  Craig,  Jr.,  is  an  attorney  and  general  part- 
ner with  Craig  and  Burns  in  Washington,  DC. 


1946 


John  Laffey  was  recently  appointed  president 
of  Fairchild,  Incorporated.  Located  in  Beck- 
ley,  WV,  it  is  the  world's  largest  independently 
owned  mining  equipment  manufacturer.  For- 
merly he  was  vice  president  of  major-accounts 
marketing  and  vice  president  and  general  man- 
ager of  Austin  Western  Machinery  Company, 
a  subsidiary  of  Clark  Equipment  Company.  He 
holds  a  graduate  degree  in  economics  and  busi- 
ness administration  from  Clark  University  and 
has  completed  courses  in  advanced  manage- 
ment. 


1948 


Reunion 


1952 


June  2-5,  1983 


MARRIED:  George  Whittle  to  Dana  Reardon 
recently  in  Cohasset,  MA.  She  graduated  from 
New  Hampshire  College  and  is  a  free-lance 
nurse.  He  is  president  of  Whittle  Associates. 
Bernard  Brennan  is  a  field  service  supervisor 
for  United  Technologies-Hamilton  Standard  in 
Windsor  Locks,  CT. 


1953 


Reunion 


June  2-5,  1983 


Thomas  O'Connor,  coordinator  of  engineering 
at  Central  New  England  College,  Worcester, 
has  been  appointed  a  member  of  the  Worcester 
Conservation  Commission.  He  has  a  master's 
degree  from  Worcester  State  College  and  is  a 
member  of  the  Salisbury  Pond  Task  Force  and 
the  Advisory  Committee  on  Lead  Paint-Ro- 
dent Control. 


1954 


Dr.  Richard  Lindquist  is  now  chairman  of  the 
department  of  physics  at  Wesleyan  University, 
Middletown,  CT. 


1956 


Jack  McHugh  was  recently  elected  chairman 
of  the  Higher  Education  Center  Advisory 
Committee  in  Waterbury,  CT.  He  is  president 
of  his  own  firm,  the  Royal  Screw  Machine 


Products  Co.,  in  Waterbury,  and  is  a  past  pres- 
ident of  the  local  Smaller  Business  Manufac- 
turers Association  and  the  Exchange  Club. 

John  Rogers  continues  as  a  senior  technical 
specialist  at  Du  Pont  in  Wilmington,  DE. 


1958 


Reunion 


June  2-5,  1983 


Prof.  James  Demetry  of  WPFs  electrical  en- 
gineering department  has  been  elected  to  the 
administrative  committee  of  the  IEEE  Society 
on  Social  ImpHcations  of  Technology,  a  new 
IEEE  professional  group.  Serving  with  him  on 
the  committee  is  former  WPI  president  Arthur 
Bronwell. 

Robert  Donegan  serves  as  office  manager  for 
Argo  Systems  in  Greenbelt,  MD. 

Ronald  Kangas  spoke  on  "Alternatives  to 
the  Traditional  Mass  Transit  Systems"  at  WPFs 
ME  Colloquium  in  November.  He  is  acting  chief 
of  the  Design  Division,  Systems  Engineering, 
of  the  U.S.  Department  of  Transportation  in 
Washington,  DC. 

Multibank  Financial  Corp.  has  named  Joa- 
quim  Ribeiro  to  its  corporate  board.  He  is  di- 


rector of  the  firm's  affiliate,  Mechanics  Bank, 
in  Worcester.  Also,  he  serves  as  vice  president 
for  Jamesbury  Corp.,  Worcester.  Ribeiro,  who 
graduated  from  the  advanced  management 
program  of  the  Harvard  Business  School,  holds 
an  MBA  from  Clark  University. 


1960 


Cdr.  Kevin  Burke  recently  retired  after  20  years 
of  service  with  the  Navy.  Currently  he  resides 
in  Arhngton,  VA. 

Roger  La  Fontaine  is  employed  as  a  sales 
application  engineer  at  Powercube  Corpora- 
tion, Billerica,  MA. 

Alfred  Materas,  Jr.,  is  now  director  of  or- 
ganization development  for  the  Paul  Revere 
Companies  in  Worcester. 


1962 


Adrien  Berthiaume  has  been  appointed  a  full- 
time  instructor  of  engineering  and  technical 
studies  at  Northern  Essex  Community  College, 
Haverhill,  MA,  where  he  has  served  part  time 


Maggiacomo  Tapped 
By  Two  Halls  of  Fame 

Often  the  crowning  achievement  of  an 
athlete's  career  is  induction  into  a  hall  of 
fame.  Last  fall,  Antonio  ("Jock")  Mag- 
giacomo, '32,  of  Cranston,  RI,  was  in- 
ducted into  two!  Not  only  was  he  tapped 
.for  the  Cranston  Hall  of  Fame,  but  he  was 
also  named  to  the  Providence  Gridiron 
Hall  of  Fame. 

Jock  Maggiacomo  has  earned  his  lau- 
rels. As  head  football  line  coach  at  Cran- 
ston High  School  from  1936  to  1953,  he 
helped  his  team  win  seven  divisional  titles 
and  three  state  championships.  The  base- 
ball team  he  coached  for  16  years  at  Cran- 
ston High  won  four  state  championships. 

A  founder  and  treasurer  of  the  People 
to  People  Sports  Committee  of  Rhode  Is- 
land, he  has  directed  the  activities  of  two 
groups  of  Rhode  Island  young  people  in 
several  Latin  American  countries.  Two 
years  ago,  Maggiacomo  was  designated 
by  former  president  Ford  as  "Sports  Am- 
bassador" of  the  U.S.  in  appreciation  of 
his  20  years  of  participation  in  interna- 
tional sports  competition,  contributing  to 
international  friendship,  goodwill  and 
understanding  through  sports. 

A  faculty  member  at  Cranston  High 
School  East  for  25  years  and  science  de- 
partment chairman  at  Cranston  West  for 
six  years,  Maggiacomo  holds  a  master's 
degree  in  education  from  Rhode  Island 
College.  From  1936  to  1978  he  was  treas- 
urer and  vice  president  of  the  Greater 
Providence  Deposit  and  Trust  (including 
12  years  in  active  service  after  he  had  re- 


Hall  of  Fame  president  honors 
Maggiacomo  (right). 

tired  from  the  Cranston  school  system). 

He  also  has  been  active  in  community 
affairs,  serving  with  the  Cranston  Mental 
Health  Association,  the  Cranston  Broth- 
erhood Committee,  the  Cranston  Rotary 
and  the  American  Cancer  Society. 

During  the  hall  of  fame  induction  cer- 
emonies, Maggiacomo  was  cited  as  being 
"respected  and  admired  by  all  as  an  ex- 
emplar of  the  scholar-athlete,  who  has  also 
had  a  distinguished  business  career." 


APRIL  1983        27 


since  1980.  Previously  he  taught  at  St.  John's 
Preparatorv'  School  in  Danvers  and  Central  New 
England  College.  For  two  years  he  was  with 
Sylvania  Electronics.  Currently  he  is  complet- 
ing his  MSEE  at  the  University  of  Lowell. 

Jackie  Matteus  is  a  senior  staff  administrator 
for  Perkin-Elmer  Corp.,  Wilton,  CT. 

William  Shepherd  is  sales  manager  at  Land- 
art  Systems,  Inc.,  New  York  City. 


1963 


Reunion 


June  2-5,  1983 


Now  on  a  seven-month  sabbatical  from  Dart- 
mouth's Thayer  School  of  Engineering,  Fran- 
cis Kennedy,  Jr.,  is  spending  nearly  five  months 
as  a  visiting  research  professor  at  Insa,  Lyon, 
France,  after  which  he  and  his  family  will  go 
to  Bangkok,  Thailand,  where  he  will  be  a  vis- 
iting faculty  member  at  the  Asian  Institute  of 
Technology. 

Robert  Kostka  is  a  department  head  at  East- 
man Gelatine  Corp.,  Peabody,  MA. 

A.  Edward  Scherer,  who  has  been  elected 
supreme  master  of  Alpha  Epsilon  Pi  fraternity 
for  1982-83,  is  the  first  supreme  master  from 
the  fraternity's  WPI  chapter,  Epsilon  Deu- 
teron.  He  has  been  regional  governor  for  New 
England,  president  of  the  Hartford  Alumni  Club 
and  dean  of  the  1974  Leadership  School.  The 
director  of  nuclear  licensing  for  Combustion 
Engineering  in  Connecticut,  Scherer  is  a  reg- 
istered professional  engineer  in  Massachusetts 
and  holds  an  MBA  from  the  RPI  Hartford 
Graduate  Center. 


1964 


Joe  Brinkmann  recently  accepted  a  post  as  a 
senior  engineer  in  microelectronics  materials 
at  Norden  Systems  in  Norwalk,  CT. 

David  McCaffrey  continues  as  an  account  ex- 
ecutive at  Union  Carbide  Corp.,  Chicago.  The 
McCaffreys  have  a  one-year-old  son,  Andrew. 


1965 


Michael  Boyd  is  a  self-employed  software  en- 
gineering consultant  in  Seattle,  WA. 

For  more  than  a  year,  Tolga  Cubukcu  has 
been  working  for  Smislova,  Kehnemui  and  As- 
sociates, an  engineering  company  which  mainly 
designs  office  buildings  in  the  metropolitan 
Washington  DC  area.  He  is  currently  project 
manager  for  the  renovation  of  the  old  National 
Press  Building  in  downtown  Washington. 

Charles  Dufour  holds  the  post  of  director  of 
enginccrmg  for  the  Newspaper  Press  Division 
oa  Harris  Corp.  Dover.  NH,  His  job  recently 
took  him  to  India  and  Australia. 

Dave  Geiger  is  now  manager  of  labor  rela- 
tions-personnel for  the  Torrington,  CT,  plants 
of  the  Torrington  Company.  Formerly  he  was 
manufacturmg  manager. 

Jay  Hammett  recently  left  EMC  Controls  and 
started  his  own  company,  the  Entrd  Computer 
Center,  m  Timonium,  MD.  So  far  his  main 
lines  arc  IBM  and  Tclcvjdeo,  although  he  ex- 
pects to  take  on  additional  lines. 


His  Camera  Captures 
The  Beauty  of  Nature 

Award-winning  photographer  Lincoln 
Nutting,  '43.  of  Grand  Island,  NY,  is  for 
the  birds — for  the  flowers  and  for  the  en- 
vironment. 

An  accomplished  naturalist  as  well  as 
photographer,  Nutting  knows  how  to  cap- 
ture the  heart  of  Mother  Nature.  The  Buf- 
falo News  Magazine  found  his  brilliant 
spring  flower  photos  so  realistic  that  it  ran 
a  three-page  spread.  And  the  publishers 
of  Wildflowers  of  Eastern  America  (Gal- 
ahad Books,  New  York  City,  1981)  se- 
lected his  wildflower  photographs  for  their 
book  jackets. 

How  did  a  former  chemist  with  Hooker 
Chemical  Company  get  so  involved  with 
flora  and  fauna?  Says  Line,  "Nature  study 
and  photography  have  been  part  of  my 
life  since  I  was  a  boy.  When  I  retired  in 
1970,  it  seemed  logical  to  develop  my  other 
talents." 

Nutting  has  developed  his  outside  in- 
terests into  a  fine  art.  Photo  Researchers, 
a  company  which  sells  slides  to  publishers, 
holds  600  of  his  nature  slides.  To  date, 
his  biggest  artistic-commercial  success  has 
been  a  slide  of  a  puffin  taken  on  Machias 
Seal  Island,  ME. 

Besides  participating  in  winter  bird 
counts  and  nature  tours.  Line  has  pho- 
tographed bats  in  an  abandoned  mine,  has 
made  a  publicity  film  for  the  Tifft  Farm 
Nature  Preserve  and  has  given  illustrated 


Getting  ready  to  shoot. 

nature  talks  to  garden  clubs.  Scouts  and 
school  groups.  Last  summer  he  entered  a 
photo  entitled  "Two  Bridges"  in  the  Grand 
Island  Art  Society  Exhibition.  It  took  first 
prize. 

Line  is  active  in  many  nature,  orni- 
thological and  conservation  groups  in  the 
Buffalo  area.  "My  wife,  Barbara,  shares 
my  interests,"  he  reports.  "We  have  served 
as  co-directors  of  Audubon  Wildlife  Films. 
Recently  she  helped  me  gather  material 
for  the  Lillian  Fairchild  Travel  Talks." 

Daughter  Mary  Lyn  appears  to  have 
inherited  at  least  one  of  Dad's  talents.  She 
is  majoring  in  art  at  Mt.  Holyoke  College. 


Peter  Kirschmann  has  been  named  manager 
of  the  bushing  and  arrestor  products  section  of 
GE's  large  power  transformer  business  in  Pitts- 
field,  MA.  Formerly  he  ran  the  power  trans- 
former product  section  for  Canadian  General 
Electric.  He  has  an  MBA  from  Syracuse  Uni- 
versity. 

Tad  Kucera  is  a  manager  for  GE  in  Medford, 
MA. 

Pat  Moran  writes  that  he  runs  1,500  miles  a 
year  and  collects  "worn  pairs  of  running  shoes." 
His  daughters  both  played  soccer  last  fall  while 
Dad  coached.  His  wife,  Mimi,  has  her  own  silk- 
screening  business,  is  a  part-time  teacher,  and 
is  active  in  community  projects. 

Dick  Olson  continues  with  National  Devel- 
opment Corporation  in  Bradenton,  FL,  a  firm 
which  develops  and  constructs  condominiums 
and  single-family  lots. 

Tom  Pease  and  his  wife,  Gail,  are  active  bar- 
bershop singers.  Still  with  Lawler,  Matusky  & 
Skelly  Engineers,  Pearl  River,  NY,  Pease  does 
oceanographic  and  groundwater  studies. 

John  P.  Jacobson,  Class  Secretary 


1967 


Richard  Court,  Jr.,  serves  as  manager  of  qual- 
ity control  services  at  Boehringer  Ingelhcim, 
Ridgeficld.  CT. 


Dr.  George  Kasper  has  been  appointed  de- 
velopment supervisor  of  Kodak's  electro- 
graphic  technology  division  in  Rochester,  NY. 

Leonard  Odell  has  been  elected  a  vice  pres- 
ident at  the  Hartford  Insurance  Group  where 
he  directs  individual  life  and  health  actuarial, 
sales  administration  and  underwriting  opera- 
tions. He  joined  the  firm  in  1973  as  associate 
actuary,  advanced  to  actuary  in  1976  and  was 
named  assistant  vice  president  in  1980. 

Ray  Rogers  shares  a  letter  he  directed  to 
Dusty  Klauber:  "I  would  like  to  convey  my 
thanks  and  also  pass  on  the  appreciation  ex- 
pressed by  our  classmates  on  the  fantastic  job 
you  did  as  the  'reunion  czar.'  It  was  a  well 
organized,  orchestrated  good  time.  The  large 
turnout  was  a  real  tribute  to  your  efforts,  Mau- 
reen's indulgence  and  recognition  of  the  high 
esteem  in  which  you  are  held  by  our  class- 
mates." 


1968 


Reunion 
New  Date 


October  1st,  1983 


BORN:  to  Catherine  and  Scott  Wilson  their 
first  child,  Rachel  Elizabeth,  on  June  2.  1982. 
Last  February  Wilson  took  the  post  of  sanitary 
engineer  at  Andrews  AFB,  Washington,  DC. 


28        WPI  JOURNAL 


Neil  Durkee  has  been  named  director  of  plan- 
ning and  administration  for  Norton  Company's 
coated  abrasive  division.  With  the  firm  since 
1974,  most  recently  he  was  materials  manager. 
He  has  an  MBA  from  Harvard  Business  School. 


1969 


Alan  Cunningham  serves  as  a  teaching  assistant 
in  the  computer  and  information  science  de- 
partment at  Temple  University  in  Philadel- 
phia. 

Peter  Heins  continues  as  a  Boeing  727  pilot 
for  Eastern  AirHnes.  Recently  he  became  the 
executive  officer  of  the  U.S.  Coast  Guard 
Aviation  Reserve  Unit  in  Miami,  FL.  "Our 
reserve  pilots  and  30  enlisted  men  augment  the 
active-duty  air  station  as  pilots  and  mechanics 
for  their  HH-52  Sikorsky  rescue  helicopters  and 
HU-25A  Falcon  medium-range  search  air- 
planes." 

Recently  Henry  McGuire,  Jr.,  was  named 
program  manager  for  apphed  technology  and 
strategic  planning  for  the  waste  management 
program  at  Rockwell  Hanford  Operations  in 
Richland,  WA.  Previously  he  had  held  man- 
agement positions  in  engineering  technology, 
environmental  engineering  and  low-level  waste 
technology  at  Rockwell.  He  has  a  master's  de- 
gree from  Loyola  University  of  Los  Angeles. 


1971 


MARRIED:  Francis  Scricco  and  Ivy  Coffman 
in  Bethlehem,  PA,  on  November  13, 1982.  She 
graduated  from  Cedar  Crest  College,  Allen- 
town,  PA.  Scricco,  who  received  his  MS  with 
distinction  from  Columbia  University  Gradu- 
ate School  of  Business,  is  general  manager  o^ 
GE's  room  airconditioner  department  in 
Louisville,  KY. 

BORN:  to  Pat  and  Leo  R.  GiUis,  Jr.,  a  son, 
Brian  James,  on  October  11,  1982.  Brian  has 
a  brother  Kevin,  3.  Leo  is  with  New  England 
Power  Service  Co.,  Westboro,  MA. 

Ashok  Badjatiya  has  established  Jai  Kisan, 
Agro  Products,  an  animal-feed  manufacturing 
unit  at  Indore,  India. 

Robert  Childs  has  been  appointed  industrial 
sales  manager  at  Riley  Stoker  Corp.  of  Worces- 
ter. With  the  firm  since  1971,  he  was  sales  en- 
gineer and  later  district  manager  of  the  com- 
pany's Portland,  OR,  office.  He  has  both  a  BS 
and  an  MS  from  WPI. 

Michael  Turek  is  product  manager  at  Fisher 
Controls  International  in  Marshalltown,  lA. 


1972 


MARRIED:  Anthony  B.  Longo  to  Anita  M. 
Willow  in  Woodmont,  CT,  on  October  30, 1982. 
She  graduated  from  East  High  School  and  is  a 
secretary  with  Consohdated  Controls  Corp., 
Bethel,  CT,  where  he  is  an  electrical  engineer. 

Dwight  Allen  serves  as  vice  president  of 
Cambridge  Technology,  Inc. 

Douglas  Best  is  now  a  corporate  manufac- 
turing engineer  at  Jamesbury  Corporation. 

Alan  Dion  is  an  environmental  engineer  for 
the  U.S.  EPA  in  Boston. 


Gary  Dunkleberger  is  a  technical  support 
manager  for  Gesco  Corporation,  Fresno,  CA. 

Theodore  Martin,  Jr.,  serves  as  a  senior 
process  engineer  at  MacDermid,  Inc.,  in  Wa- 
terbury,  CT. 

Loren  Smith  is  a  lecturer  at  the  University 
of  Hawaii. 

Richard  Sojka,  director  of  engineering  at 
Clairol's  manufacturing  facility  in  Stamford,  CT, 
served  as  a  member  of  the  Placement  Seminar 
Panel  at  WPI  in  November. 

Last  fall  Donald  Taft  was  elected  a  vice  pres- 
ident of  Courier  Corporation,  Lowell,  MA.  He 
was  also  named  general  manager  of  Courier's 
Forms  East  Division,  which  employs  750  and 
has  sales  of  $37  miUion. 


1973 


Reunion 
New  Date 


October  1st,  1983 


MARRIED:  John  W.  Barry  to  Patricia  A.  La- 
tus  in  Poughkeepsie,  NY.  Both  are  employed 
by  IBM.  She  received  her  computer  science 
degree  from  Cornell.  .  .  .  Scott  R.  Blackney  to 
Edith  F.  Chadwick  on  October  2,  1982,  in 
Westboro,  MA.  A  graduate  of  Bentley  Col- 
lege, she  is  with  Data  General  Corp.,  West- 
boro. He  works  for  Raytheon  in  Wayland. 

John  Albini  is  a  distribution  planning  engi- 
neer at  United  Illuminating,  New  Haven,  CT. 

Terrence  Luddy  has  been  promoted  to  senior 
engineer  in  the  capacity  planning  department 
of  Northeast  Utilities  in  Connecticut.  With  the 
firm  since  1973,  he  has  held  increasingly  re- 
sponsible posts  with  the  civil  engineering,  in- 
ternal auditing  and  capacity  planning  depart- 
ments. He  has  a  JD  degree  from  Western  New 
England  College  of  Law  and  is  a  member  of 
the  Connecticut  and  American  Bar  Associa- 
tions, as  well  as  of  the  ASCE. 

Joseph  Osgood  is  a  senior  software  engineer 
for  Puritan-Bennett  Corporation,  Los  Ange- 
les. 

Kenneth  Puis,  employed  in  the  aerospace  di- 
vision of  Ensign-Bickford  Company  in  Sims- 
bury,  CT,  has  received  an  MS  in  engineering 
management  from  Western  New  England  Col- 
lege. 


1974 


BORN:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Leonard  Brzozowski 

a  son,  Michael.  Len  is  now  manager  for  the 
Standard  Atmosphere  furnace  business  in  the 
Surface  Division  of  Midland-Ross  Corpora- 
tion. He  and  his  family  reside  in  Toledo,  OH. 
...  to  Nancy  and  Larry  Patty  their  first  child, 
a  son.  Dean  Nicolas,  on  February  26,  1982. 
Larry,  who  holds  an  MBA  from  the  University 
of  New  Haven,  is  now  in  a  new  department  at 
Electric  Boat:  Reactor  Plant  Services. 

Dennis  Anctil  is  a  project  engineer  for  Cos- 
tello,  Lomasney  &  deNapoh,  Inc.,  Manches- 
ter, NH. 

Barbara  Bain  was  a  member  of  the  WPI 
Placement  Seminar  Panel  last  November.  She 
is  a  division  manager  for  Southern  New  Eng- 
land Telephone. 

Paul  ("Butch")  Soulier  is  a  project  leader  in 
the  development  group  at  the  thermoplastics 


division  of  Borden  Chemical  in  Leominster, 
MA.  He  is  studying  for  his  master's  degree  in 
plastics  engineering  at  the  University  of  Low- 
ell. 

Daniel  Brunell  has  been  named  vice  presi- 
dent and  general  manager  of  Pro  Sol  Corp., 
sporting  goods  subsidiary  of  Louis  Lefkowitz 
and  Brother,  Inc.,  Milltown,  NJ.  Brunell,  with 
Lefkowitz  since  1974,  says  that  Pro  Sol  is  the 
leading  manufacturer  of  leather  tennis  grips 
worldwide. 

Bob  Bryant  works  for  the  power  department 
of  the  New  York  City  Transit  Authority. 

Last  September,  Capt.  Chris  Cigal  com- 
pleted his  studies  at  Combined  Arms  &  Serv- 
ices Staff  School  at  Ft.  Leavenworth,  KS. 

Dave  Demers,  a  professional  engineer,  is 
president  of  his  own  fire  protection  engineering 
consulting  firm,  Demers  Associates,  in  Lunen- 
burg, MA.  He  is  also  a  lieutenant  with  the 
Lunenburg  Fire  Department. 

Bob  Dutson  serves  as  a  senior  property  loss 
control  consultant  with  Johnson  and  Higgins 
on  Wall  Street  in  New  York  City.  Previously 
he  was  with  the  Kenyser  Group  in  Summit, 
NJ. 

Tom  Frink  has  just  enrolled  in  the  master's 
program  for  philosophy  at  Boston  College  and 
hopes  to  go  on  to  a  graduate  degree  in  theol- 
ogy- 
Dave  Gerth  is  with  the  Corporate  Finance 
Group  at  Computervision  Corporation  in  Bed- 
ford, MA.  "Really  enjoy  the  job  and  people. 
Work  a  lot  with  our  European  and  Far  East 
Division." 

Vijay  Kirloskar  currently  serves  as  executive 
of  operations  for  Kirloskar  Electric  Company 
Ltd,  in  Bangalore,  India. 

Skip  Leanna  is  project  construction  manager 
for  East  Kentucky  Power  of  Winchester,  KY. 
He  says  he  has  been  infected  by  the  "horse 
bug"  and  is  developing  a  farm  for  the  breeding 
and  training  of  Arabian  horses. 

Dr.  Ted  Ledden  continues  as  a  dentist  in 
Wilmington,  DE.  Recently  he  was  the  individ- 
ual squash  champion  for  the  "C"  level  in  the 
Philadelphia  area.  His  club  team  won  the  "C" 
level  league  championship. 

George  Lewis  is  now  manager  for  transducer 
products  at  Irex  Corporation,  Ramsey,  NJ. 
Earlier  he  was  with  Seimens  GammaSonics  in 
Santa  Clara,  CA,  and  G.D.  Searle  Co.  in  Des 
Plaines,  IL.  Hobbies  include  woodworking, 
swimming  and  breeding  Samoyed  dogs. 

John  Lord  is  involved  with  inside  sales  of 
rotating  equipment  for  Terry  Steam  Turbine, 
a  division  of  Ingersoll-Rand  in  Windsor,  CT. 
His  wife,  Michelle  Riel  Lord,  keeps  busy  raising 
their  two  sons  and  running  a  macrame  busi- 
ness. 

Gene  Lukianov  continues  as  product  engi- 
neering manager  at  Gabriel  of  Canada  in  In- 
gersoll,  Ontario.  He  still  races  cars. 

John  Martin  and  his  wife,  April,  are  both 
active  in  the  National  Ski  Patrol,  primarily  at 
Mt.  Tom  and  Berkshire  East  in  Massachusetts. 
John,  a  professional  engineer,  serves  as  project 
engineering  supervisor  in  the  plant  engineering 
department  at  Monsanto  in  Springfield. 

John  Mason  was  recently  elected  vice  chair- 
man and  program  chairman  for  the  northeast- 
ern section  of  the  American  Nuclear  Society. 
A  professional  engineer,  he  holds  a  new  post 
involving  mechanical  engineering  support  for 
changes  and  retrofits  on  USAF  AWACS  planes 
at  MITRE  Corporation. 


APRIL  1983 


29 


Jerrv'  Masi  is  president  of  Eric  Bruckner  & 
Company,  a  real-estate  investment  firm  in  Santa 
Barbara.  CA. 

Dick  Miles  has  been  promoted  to  senior  staff 
systems  programmer  at  AVCO  Computer 
Services  in  Wilmington.  MA. 

Currently  Dave  Pacl^ard  is  a  staff  design  en- 
gineer with  Public  Service  Company  of  New 
Hampshire  in  Manchester.  He  and  his  wife, 
Patricia,  have  a  son,  Brian  David,  born  in  Jan- 
uary 1981. 

Neil  ("Pugs")  Poulin  is  a  semiconductor 
process  engineering  manager  at  IBM  in  Essex 
Junction,  \T.  and  does  a  lot  of  company  travel. 
In  his  spare  time,  he  bicycles  some  3,000  miles 
a  year.  He  and  Rachel  have  a  baby  son,  Adam, 
and  are  building  a  new  home. 

George  Ranney  is  a  process  engineer  at 
UniRoyal  Chemical  Division  in  Baton  Rouge. 
LA.  Active  in  their  church,  the  Ranneys  be- 
long to  a  swimming  and  tennis  club.  He  coaches 
a  diving  team  in  the  summer. 

Jim  ('"Bino")  Rubino,  who  has  been  with 
Torrington  Company  since  graduation,  is  now 
district  manager  of  barring  sales  in  South  Bend, 
IN.  He  and  his  wife.  "Weezie,"  enjoy  golf, 
racketball  and  softball. 

Lee  Turner  has  accepted  a  post  with  his  old 
company,  Baxter  Travenol  Labs,  in  Chicago, 
after  working  in  Miami  for  nearly  four  years. 

Craig  Tyler  serves  as  a  sales  engineer  for 
Times  Fiber  Communications,  Wallingford,  CT. 
He  is  responsible  for  the  nationwide  sales  of 
bulk  coaxial  cables  to  the  firm's  military  cus- 
tomers. 

Mary  Lynch  Voshell  is  now  a  registered 
professional  engineer  and  plans  to  return  to 
engineering  soon.  She  has  a  three-year-old 
daughter  at  home. 

John  Young  is  with  Procter  &  Gamble  in 
Belgium. 

Richard  Zarr  holds  the  post  of  senior  asso- 
ciate engineer  at  IBM  in  Endicott,  NY. 

Jim  Rubino,  Class  Secretary 


1975 


MARRIED:  Harry  F.  Danberg  and  Stephanie 
Ann  Heyman  in  Metairie,  LA,  on  November 
28,  1982.  She  graduated  from  Loyola  Univer- 
sity. .  .  .  Gary  LaLiberty  to  Deborah  Jacobs 
in  Niagara  Falls,  NY,  on  November  6,  1982. 
She  graduated  from  Niagara  County  Com- 
munity College.  LaLiberty  is  with  Occidental 
Chemical  Co..  Niagara  Falls.  .  .  .  David  P.  Sa- 
mara and  Holly  A.  Wellstead  in  Somersworth, 
PA.  Both  are  employed  at  Westinghouse  in 
Pittsburgh.  A  graduate  of  Ohio  University,  she 
is  with  the  corporate  human-resources  depart- 
ment. He  is  a  salesman  in  the  nuclear  service 
integration  division. 

BORN:  to  Bill  DiBenedetto  and  Molly  La- 
tham a  daughter,  Yvonne,  on  August  8,  1982. 
Bill  is  currently  the  Federal  Communications 
Commission  program  manager  of  the  Systems 
Division  at  Digital  Equipment  Corporation  in 
Chelmsford,  MA.  .  .  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  David 
Kingsbury  their  fourth  child,  Daniel  Edgar,  on 
October  24,  1982.  (The  baby's  aunt  is  Mary 
Beth  ChuplLs,  '86.)  Dave  is  a  systems  specialist 
with  Monsanto  \n  Bloomficid,  CT 

Nicl(  Baker,  Fred  Cordelia  and  Mark  Cos- 
enza  were  members  of  the  Placement  Seminar 
Panel  held  at  VVPI  in  November.  Nick  is  with 


The  annual  meeting  of  the 
WPI  Alumni  Association 

will  be  held  on 

Saturday,  June  4,  1983, 

in  Harrington  Auditorium 

on  the  WPI  campus 

at  1:00  PM. 


Data  General.  Fred  with  the  Badger  Company 
and  Mark  with  Polaroid. 

Kent  Berwick  had  been  promoted  to  captain 
in  the  U.S.  Air  Force  Reserve.  He  is  assigned 
with  the  337th  Tactical  Airlift  Squadron  at 
Westover  Air  Force  Base.  MA. 

William  Booth  of  the  Boston  law  firm  of  Fish 
and  Richardson  spoke  on  "Patent  and  Inven- 
tion Related  Law  and  How  it  Affects  the  En- 
gineer and  Scientist"  at  WPI  in  December. 

Scott  Wilson  is  with  Hughes  Aircraft  in  Tuc- 
son, AZ. 


1976 


MARRIED:  Richard  M.  Cheever  to  Mary  E. 
Meehan  in  Belmont,  MA.  A  graduate  of  UMass, 
Amherst,  she  has  an  MBA  from  Boston  Uni- 
versity and  is  now  with  Digital  Equipment  Cor- 
poration, where  he  is  also  employed.  Cheever 
has  an  MBA  from  Babson. 

James  Buss  has  been  promoted  to  assistant 
actuary  at  State  Mutual  in  Worcester.  He  joined 
the  company  in  1976  and  had  been  a  senior 
actuarial  associate  since  1980. 

Bruce  Doan  is  chief  engineer  and  technical 
director  for  WCUW  Radio,  Worcester. 

John  Forster  is  a  student  at  Harvard  Business 
School. 

Barry  Siff,  who  recently  received  his  mas- 
ter's degree  from  Wayne  State  University,  De- 
troit, now  works  for  Colonial  Provision  Co., 
Boston. 

Brian  Swanson  is  a  senior  research  engineer 
at  Norton  Co.,  Worcester. 


1977 


MARRIED:  Stephen  M.  Coleman  and  Doreen 
A.  Calcagni  on  July  24,  1982,  in  Worcester. 
She  graduated  from  Burncoat  Senior  High 
School  and  is  employed  at  State  Mutual  Life 
Assurance  Co.,  Worcester,  where  Coleman  is 
a  senior  actuarial  associate.  .  .  .  Mark  E.  Wat- 
son and  Linda  A.  Lapriore  on  June  5,  1982.  in 
Worcester.  A  supervisor  for  Friendly  Ice  Cream 
Stores,  Worcester,  she  graduated  from  North 
High  School.  He  holds  the  post  of  project  en- 
gineer at  CPC  Engineering  Co.,  Sturbridge. 

Steven  Ciavarini  is  a  system  engineer  at  the 
Foxboro  (MA)  Co. 

Marc  DeVoe  serves  as  a  systems  engineer  at 
IBM  in  Princeton.  NJ. 

(ieor{;e  Harding  III  passed  his  Massachusetts 
bar  exam  and  was  admitted  to  practice  in  De- 
cember Last  June  he  received  his  JD,  cum 
laudc,  from  Suffolk  University  Law  .School. 

Walt  Peterson  is  now  an  engineering  section 


leader  for  ITT  Grinnell  in  Huntington  Beach, 
CA.  He  and  Debra  live  in  Santa  Ana. 

Theodore  Pytel,  Jr.,  is  regional  superinten- 
dent for  meter  and  test  at  Niagara  Mohawk 
Power  Corp.  in  New  Hartford,  NY. 


1978 


Reunion 
New  Date 


October  1st,  1983 


MARRIED:  Gino  J.  Baroni  and  Cheryl  L. 
Barnes  on  October  10,  1982,  in  Tewksbury, 
MA.  She  graduated  from  Katharine  Gibbs 
School,  Boston.  A  construction  coordinator, 
Baroni  is  employed  by  Beacon  Construction, 
Boston.  .  .  .  Adrienne  D.  Dill  and  David  A. 
Schoenwolf  in  Short  Hills,  NJ,  on  October  9, 
1982.  She  has  a  master's  from  Georgia  Institute 
of  Technology.  Both  are  geotechnical  engi- 
neers at  Haley  &  Aldrich,  Inc.,  Cambridge, 
MA.  Schoenwolf  holds  two  degrees  in  civil  en- 
gineering from  the  University  of  IlHnois.  .  .  . 
Alan  W.  Geishecker  to  Alice  G.  Castro  in  Fort 
Knox,  KY,  on  September  19,  1982.  She  grad- 
uated from  Ajo  (AZ)  High  School  and  works 
for  the  U.S.  Army  educational  system.  Geish- 
ecker is  a  U.S.  Army  captain  stationed  at  Fort 
Knox.  .  .  .  Richard  Gottlieb  and  Julia  Clark  in 
Springfield,  MA,  on  October  11,  1982.  She 
graduated  from  Becker  Junior  College  and  Ka- 
tharine Gibbs  School,  Boston.  He  is  employed 
by  Perini  Corp.,  Framingham,  MA.  .  .  .  Cyn- 
thia A.  Gryniuk  and  Randolph  Hans  Hofer  in 
Waterbury,  CT,  on  November  13,  1982.  A  me- 
chanical engineer,  Cynthia  is  an  account  ex- 
ecutive for  AT&T  Long  Lines,  Stamford.  He 
graduated  from  NYU  with  a  BA  in  philosophy 
and  a  master's  in  business  administration.  He 
is  a  marketing  specialist  for  GTE.  Stamford. 

Karen  Chesney  Honold  served  on  WPI's 
Placement  Seminar  Panel  in  November.  She  is 
with  AT&T  Long  Lines.  Parsippany,  NJ. 

Dr.  Ethan  Rosenberg  is  a  research  chemist 
at  C.P.  Chemicals,  Inc.,  Sewaren,  NJ. 

Margaret  Staruk,  who  was  advanced  to  sen- 
ior systems  analyst  in  1980,  was  recently  pro- 
moted to  advisory  communications  consultant 
within  the  data  communications  organization 
at  State  Mutual  in  Worcester. 

Andrew  Tabak  is  with  RCA  in  Burlington, 
MA. 

Jeffrey  Toran  of  Du  Font's  photo  products 
department  wrote  "Deposition  of  Titanium  Ni- 
tride Coatings,"  which  appeared  in  the  Sep- 
tember/October issue  of  Du  Font's  College  Re- 
port. 

Wes  Wheeler,  who  was  recently  married,  has 
accepted  a  two-year  assignment  in  Japan,  start- 
ing in  January  of  1983.  He  will  be  a  schedule 
control  engineer  on  a  $400-million  Exxon  proj- 
ect in  Osaka. 


1979 


MARRIED:  Lawrence  J.  Leduc  and  Karen  Ann 
Carlson  in  Charlton,  MA.  on  August  7,  1982. 
A  graduate  of  Fitchburg  State  College,  she  is 
a  special-education  teacher.  Leduc  is  a  chem- 
ical engineer  for  American  Hoechst  of  Leo- 
minster. 

BORN:  to  Karen  Badger  We.spi,  '82,  and 


30        WPI  JOURNAL 


George  Wespi  twin  sons,  Eric  and  Scott,  on 
March  30,  1982.  George  is  with  F.  W.  Madi- 
gan,  Co.,  Inc.,  Worcester. 

Second  Lt.  Paul  Babin  is  a  graduate  student 
at  Texas  Tech  University  in  Lubbock. 

Michael  De  LaCruz  is  principal  engineer  for 
robotics  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  An- 
dover,  MA. 

Egisto  Minardi  is  with  Texas  Instruments  in 
Houston. 

Russell  Murray,  Jr.,  serves  as  a  structural 
engineer  at  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston. 

Phillip  Roux  is  a  senior  engineer  at  Data 
General  Corp.,  Westboro,  MA. 


1980 


MARRIED:  Serge  Molinari  and  Cynthia  F. 
Boudreaux  of  Ponchatoula,  LA,  on  August  14, 
1982.  They  reside  in  Beaumont,  TX,  and  work 
for  Du  Pont.  She  is  a  systems  analyst  and  he 
is  a  power  consultant  for  the  Gulf  Coast.  .  .  . 
William  A.  Martha  and  Kathy  M.  Latino  in 
Liverpool,  NY,  on  October  9,  1982.  A  student 
at  State  University  College  of  Utica-Rome,  she 
graduated  from  Cayuga  County  Community 


College  and  is  a  tax  and  insurance  clerk  with 
GE  in  Syracuse.  He  recently  completed  GE's 
Manufacturing  Management  Program.  .  .  .  Lt. 
Robert  P.  Vozzola  and  Diane  M.  Hutchinson 
on  October  23,  1982,  in  Windsor  Locks,  CT. 
She  is  a  graduate  of  the  Jordan  Hill  College  of 
Education,  Glasgow,  Scotland.  Vozzola  is  sta- 
tioned with  the  U.S.  Air  Force  at  Langley  Air 
Force  Base,  Hampton,  VA.  .  .  .  Robert  E.  Yule 
and  Elizabeth  H.  Coffin  on  October  9,  1982, 
in  Livingston,  NJ.  A  former  assistant  display 
manager  for  Bamberger's  in  Rockaway,  she 
graduated  from  West  Virginia  University.  He 
is  a  chemical  engineer  with  Du  Pont  in  Belle, 
WV. 

Verne  Backus  is  an  advanced  technology  en- 
gineer for  GE  in  Waterford,  NY. 

Virginia  Bastable,  a  mathematics  teacher  at 
Amherst  (MA)  Regional  High  School,  has  been 
selected  a  merit-award  winner  by  the  regional 
school  committee.  She  has  a  master's  degree 
in  mathematics  from  WPI. 

Michael  Gagnon  is  a  software  engineer  for 
Sanders  Associates,  Nashua,  NH. 

Stephen  Laflamme  is  now  a  reactor  engineer 
for  Maine  Yankee  Atomic  Power  Co.,  Wis- 
casset,  ME. 

Stephen  Lawry  has  been  selected  for  the  U.S. 


Dick  Bran  and  his  warm-up  bats. 

Bratt's  Bat 

Is  Making  a  Hit! 

In  1982  the  American  League  (AL)  hit 
nearly  40  percent  more  home  runs  than 
the  National  League,  climaxing  a  six-year 
upward  trend  in  AL  home  run  superior- 
ity. A  fluke?  Dick  Bratt,  '59,  doesn't  think 
so. 

Dick  is  president  of  Bratt  Corp.  of  Hol- 
den,  MA,  a  firm  which  makes  weighted 
warm-up  bats.  Since  1979  he  has  been  giv- 


ing the  American  League  the  exclusive 
use  of  his  bats,  and  the  upsurge  in  AL 
home  runs  has  been  astonishing.  In  one 
year  alone,  the  AL  home  run  total  went 
from  1,140  to  2,007! 

Who  uses  Bratt's  bats?  Jim  Rice  of  the 
Boston  Red  Sox,  for  one.  And  George 
Foster,  formerly  of  the  Cincinnati  Reds, 
for  another.  Before  1979  both  leagues  used 
the  bats,  and  both  players  were  home  run 
champions  for  their  respective  leagues  in 
1977  and  1978.  Rice  is  quoted  as  saying, 
"I  might  have  hit  a  dozen  fewer  home 
runs  and  20  to  30  [percentage]  points  lower 
if  I  hadn't  discovered  this  bat."  He  says 
he  likes  it  because  it's  balanced. 

Bratt,  a  product  engineer  at  Norton  Co., 
Worcester,  contends  that  his  balanced, 
weighted  bat  is  better  than  the  conven- 
tional hard-rubber  doughnut  model  for 
building  strength  and  loosening  muscles. 

"If  you  use  a  doughnut,  the  end- 
weighted  bat  swings  itself,"  he  says.  "With 
the  Bratt  bat,  you  have  to  move  the  bat 
yourself." 

The  bat,  developed  by  Bratt's  late  father, 
Leonard,  has  an  ash  handle.  Its  plastic 
barrel  is  filled  with  sand  or  alumina  zir- 
conia.  Foam  and  a  wooden  plug  hold  in 
the  sand.  Used  for  exercise — not  hitting — 
the  bat  comes  in  nine  weights,  from  45  to 
90  ounces. 

Bratt,  a  die-hard  Red  Sox  fan,  has  great 
confidence  in  his  company's  product,  be- 
cause he  feels  it  produces  results.  He  re- 
ports, "We  were  watching  the  '75  World 
Series  on  TV,  when  Bernie  Carbo  hit  a 
pair  of  pinch-hit  homers  for  the  Red  Sox. 
Both  times  they  showed  him  using  our 
warm-up  bat  before  he  went  to  the  plate. 
We  celebrated  until  four  in  the  morning!" 


edition  of  Who's  Who  in  Aviation  and  Aero- 
space. Recently  promoted  to  first  lieutenant  in 
the  U.S.  Air  Force,  he  is  stationed  in  Albu- 
querque, NM. 

Paula  Mesite  is  studying  for  her  MSEE  in 
communications  at  MIT. 

Matthew  Powell  is  a  system  engineer  at  Un- 
germann-Bass,  Burlington,  MA. 

David  Roderick  has  been  elected  an  "Out- 
standing Young  Man  of  the  Year"  by  the  U.S. 
Jaycees  and  is  listed  in  the  current  volume  of 
the  Outstanding  Young  Men  of  America.  Be- 
sides WPI,  he  attended  San  Bernardino  Valley 
College. 

Mark  Tino  was  a  member  of  the  Placement 
Seminar  Panel  held  at  WPI  in  November.  He 
is  employed  by  Arthur  Andersen  &  Co.,  Bos- 
ton. 

David  Weiss  is  a  graduate  student  at  Car- 
negie-Mellon in  Pittsburgh,  PA. 


1981 


MARRIED:  Suzanne  Call  to  Larry  Margerum 
in  Colrain,  MA,  on  November  27,  1982.  Suz- 
anne is  with  Radian  Corp.,  Durham,  NC.  Mar- 
gerum graduated  from  Dartmouth  and  is  a  doc- 
toral candidate  at  the  University  of  North 
Carolina.  .  .  .  Ted  Nevells  and  Joanne  Divico 
on  September  25,  1982,  in  Framingham,  MA. 
Employed  by  a  private  nursing  service  in  New 
Jersey,  she  graduated  from  Worcester's  St. 
Vincent  Hospital  School  of  Nursing.  He  is  an 
officer  in  the  Civil  Engineers  Corps  of  the  U.S. 
Navy.  .  .  .  Thomas  R.  Strenk  to  Robin  D.  Jus- 
saume  in  Webster,  MA,  on  September  5, 1982. 
She  graduated  from  David  Hale  Fanning  School 
of  Technical  and  Health  Occupations  and  is  a 
medical  assistant.  He  is  with  American  Optical 
Co.,  Framingham,  MA.  .  .  .  David  Torrey  and 
Cynthia  Nault,  '82,  in  Lynn,  MA,  recently. 
Cynthia  is  a  systems  engineer  at  Computer 
Control  Systems  in  Dedham.  David  is  a  re- 
search assistant  in  electrical  engineering  at  MIT. 
.  .  .  Andre  L.  Walker  to  Anne  E.  Caufield,  '82 
on  July  24,  1982,  in  Lexington,  MA. 

Alan  Amaral  works  as  a  systems  analyst  at 
Riley  Stoker,  Worcester. 

Joseph  Caola,  a  second  lieutenant  in  the 
USAF,  is  stationed  at  Laughlin  AFB,  Texas. 

Robert  Daley,  Jr.,  is  an  analyst  in  design 
engineering  at  Savery  Tool  Sales  Co.,  West 
Hartford,  CT. 

Jeffrey  Dick  is  a  measurement  systems  en- 
gineer at  Corning  (NY)  Glass  Works. 

Larry  Nelson,  who  is  with  Fenwal,  Inc. ,  Ash- 
land, MA,  also  has  an  independent  consulting 
business.  Nelson  Research. 

Continuing  with  Chevron  Research,  Jeff 
Trask  is  a  coordinator  of  land-farm  (waste  dis- 
posal) research  activities  for  the  Richmond  (CA) 
firm. 

Gary  Winer  attends  New  England  School  of 
Law  in  Boston. 


1982 


MARRIED:  Michael  J.  Baiinskas  and  Nancy  J. 
Friedmann  in  New  Britain,  CT,  on  October  2, 
1982.  She  graduated  from  St.  Joseph  College, 
West  Hartford.  He  is  with  United  Illuminating 
Co.  ...  Timothy  C.  Barry  to  Elizabeth  A. 


APRIL  1983 


31 


Grazioso  in  Quincy  Center,  MA.  She  gradu- 
ated from  Assumption  College,  Worcester.  He 
is  employed  as  a  systems  consultant.  .  .  .  Dale 
Beaver  to  Paula  Hemigle  in  Canajoharie.  NY. 
on  August  21,  1982.  A  registered  nurse  at  the 
Memorial  Hospital  in  Worcester,  she  gradu- 
ated from  Fulton  Montgomery  Community 
College  and  attended  Albany  Medical  Center 
School  of  Nursing.  .  .  .  Lewis  S.  Camion  and 
Celeste  J.  Tanguay  on  October  2,  1982,  in  Suf- 
field.  CT.  A  recreation  director  for  Winton- 
bury  Manor,  Bloomfield,  she  graduated  from 
Montclair  State  College  in  New  Jersey.  Can- 
non is  a  civil  engineer  for  Roncari  Industries, 
East  Granby.  .  .  .  Matthew  Fratantonio  to 
Laurie  E.  Taragowski  in  Hamden,  CT,  on  Oc- 
tober 29,  1982.  A  registered  nurse,  she  grad- 
uated from  Massachusetts  General  Hospital 
School  of  Nursing.  Boston.  He  is  a  product 
engineer  at  PoUak  Co..  also  in  Boston.  .  .  . 
Patricia  L.  Gauvin  to  Joseph  A.  Corriveau  on 
October  9.  1982.  in  Dudley,  MA.  She  is  a  com- 
puter programmer  at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft 
in  East  Hartford.  CT.  Corriveau  graduated  from 
Tantasqua  Regional  High  School  and  is  with 
Hyde  Manufacturing,  Southbridge.  MA. 

MARRIED:  Scott  Harris  and  Jody  Edelman 
on  August  8,  1982.  in  Buffalo,  NY.  Jody  does 
graduate  work  in  mechanical  engineering  at 
WPL  .  .  .  Stephen  P.  Joiicoeur  to  Debbie  L. 
Madamba  in  Worcester  on  July  24,  1982.  .  .  . 
R.  James  Nunn  and  Ann  M.  Naillis  in  Wall- 
ingford,  CT,  on  October  16,  1982.  She  grad- 
uated from  St.  Joseph  College  and  is  a  regis- 
tered nurse  at  Mt.  Sinai  Hospital.  He  works 
for  Emhart  Corp.  .  .  .  Robert  A.  Poole  to  Linda 
L.  Budney  on  September  26,  1982,  in  Worces- 
ter. She  graduated  from  Worcester  State  Col- 
lege. Poole  serves  as  a  process  engineer  at  Al- 
loys Research,  Inc.,  Bristol,  NH.  .  .  .  Douglas 
J.  Towart  and  Kerri  Ann  Tegan,  '84,  in  Milton, 
MA.  He  is  with  GE  in  Pittsfield.  .  .  .  Philip  I. 
Wengloski  and  Ann  M.  Hesse  on  September 
25,  1982,  in  Lebanon,  CT.  A  medical  assistant 
secretary,  she  graduated  from  Trinity  College. 
He  serves  as  a  reactor  transient  performance 
analyst  at  Combustion  Engineering  in  Wind- 
sor. 

Brandt  Bonin  is  studying  for  his  master's  in 
chemical  engineering  at  Drexel  University  in 
Philadelphia,  PA. 

Steve  Brodeur  works  for  Hughes  Aircraft  in 
Anaheim,  CA. 

Kingsley  Brown  is  at  RPI  in  Troy,  NY,  study- 
ing for  his  master's  degree  in  electric  power 
engineering. 

John  Calhoun  works  in  the  management  in- 
formation consuhing  division  at  Arthur  An- 
dersen &  Co.  in  Boston. 

The  Florida  Power  and  Light  Company  of 
Juno  Beach,  FL.  has  named  John  Dougherty 
as  an  electrical  engineer. 

Thomas  Fitzgerald  ill  is  a  patent  officer  with 
the  US    Patent  Office.  Arlington.  VA. 

Rene  Fontaine  has  jomed  Codex  Corpora- 
tion in  Mansfield,  MA.  where  he  is  an  associate 
engineer  m  the  network  control  products  de- 
velopment group. 

Denni.s  Grimard  docs  graduate  work  in 
quantum  electronics  at  the  University  of  Mich- 
igan in  Ann  Arbor 

Lynn  Gu.stafson  has  accepted  the  post  of 
process  manufacturing  engineer  at  Corning 
Glass  Works  m  Muskogee,  OK. 

Dianne  Lcahey  has  joined  Kimberly  Clark  in 
Anaheim.  CA. 


Currently  Stephen  LeViness  works  at  the 
Academy  of  Science  in  Budapest.  Hungary,  as 
part  of  his  master's  program  in  chemical  en- 
gineering at  WPL 

Neil  Mager,  a  mechanical  design  engineer 
with  Teledyne  in  Waltham,  MA,  is  an  analyst 
for  nuclear  plants. 

Richard  Maynard  is  employed  by  Digital 
Components  Group.  Marlboro.  MA. 

Gail  Miranda  has  been  named  a  junior  mem- 
ber of  the  technical  staff  at  ITT  Avionics,  Nut- 
ley.  NJ. 

Michael  Nallen  has  joined  Babcock  and  Wil- 
cox in  Lynchburg,  VA. 

Formerly  employed  by  Stone  &  Webster, 
Boston,  Margaret  Newcomb  was  recently 
transferred  to  Waterford,  CT,  with  Millstone. 

Ann  Noga  continues  as  a  process  engineer 
for  fluorescent  lighting  products  at  GTE  Syl- 
vania  in  Danvers,  MA. 

Steven  Oxman,  who  holds  an  MS  in  com- 
puter science  from  WPI,  is  now  the  principal 
computer  scientist  with  the  NATO  program  in 
the  Hague,  the  Netherlands. 

Michael  Sciascia  attends  graduate  school  at 
Virginia  Tech  in  Blacksburg. 

Donald  Soubie  works  at  the  Aberdeen  Prov- 
ing Grounds. 

Dr.  Helen  Vassallo,  who  has  an  MBA  from 
WPI,  has  been  named  an  associate  professor 
of  management  and  biology  at  WPI.  She  had 
been  director  of  scientific  and  professional  in- 
formation at  Astra  Pharmaceutical  Products, 
Inc.,  Worcester.  She  holds  two  degrees  from 
Tufts  and  a  doctorate  from  Clark. 

Stephen  Zimmerman  is  a  research  assistant 
in   the   chemical   engineering   department   at 


UMass.  where  he  is  pursuing  a  master's  degree. 
Ann  Noga,  Class  Secretary 

School  of 

Industrial  Management 

Walter  Gonia,  '64,  is  director  of  marketing  at 
Flexonics  Division  of  UOP  in  Bartlett,  IL.  .  .  . 
William  Barlow,  '65,  who  received  the  1982 
Albert  J.  Schwieger  Award  from  WPI's  School 
of  Industrial  Management,  has  been  elected  a 
director  of  Wyman-Gordon  Co.  He  is  execu- 
tive vice  president  of  the  forgings  company, 
which  he  joined  in  1943.  Previously  he  was  vice 
president  and  general  manager  of  the  eastern 
division.  .  .  .  Peter  Leasca,  '65,  continues  as  a 
financial  consultant  for  Shearson  American 
Express  in  Worcester.  An  adjunct  professor  at 
Worcester  State  College  and  Quinsigamond 
Community  College,  his  lectures  cover  the  stock 
market  and  money  management. 


Natural  Science  Program 

Rufus  Stacey,  '70,  has  been  appointed  an  in- 
structor of  industrial  education  at  Keene  (NH) 
State  College  (KSC).  Stacey  has  a  bachelor's 
degree  from  KSC.  Previously  he  taught  voca- 
tional electronics  at  Cheshire  Vocational  Cen- 
ter in  Keene  and  in-service  electronics  for  Mar- 
kem  Corp.,  also  in  Keene,  as  well  as  radiation 
physics  and  electronics  at  the  Cheshire  Hos- 
pital School  of  X-Ray  Technology. 


COMPLETED  CAREERS 


Frank  Forsberg,  '15,  a  retired  chief  metallurg- 
ist and  consultant  to  the  Gillette  Co.  in  Boston, 
died  on  October  29,  1982,  in  Worcester.  He 
was  89. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  graduated  with  a 
BSCE.  He  belonged  to  Sigma  Xi  and  Tau  Beta 
Pi. 

During  his  early  career,  he  worked  for  the 
American  Steel  &  Wire  Division  of  U.S.  Steel. 
From  1943  to  1958,  he  was  chief  metallurgist 
for  Gillette  Safety  Razor  Co. 

Mr.  Forsberg  belonged  to  the  American  So- 
ciety for  Metals,  the  American  Institute  of 
Mining  and  Metallurgical  Engineers,  the 
American  Society  of  Swedish  Engineers,  the 
Masons  and  the  Tech  Old-Timers.  He  was  a 
registered  professional  engineer  in  Massachu- 
setts. 

Earl  R.  Smiddy,  Sr.,  '26,  died  December  19, 
1982,  in  Framingham  (MA)  Union  Hospital  at 
the  age  of  80.  He  was  born  on  September  16, 
1902,  in  Southborough,  MA. 

After  receiving  his  BSEE,  he  was  for  many 
years  with  Gamewell  Co.  and  Honeywell,  both 
in  Newton.  A  registered  professional  engineer 
in  Massachusetts.  New  Hampshire  and  Con- 
necticut, he  retired  in  1970. 

Besides  being  a  member  of  Theta  Chi.  Mr. 
Smiddy  belonged  to  St.  Matthew's  Church  and 
the  American  Legion  of  Southborough.  the  New 
England  Fire  Chiefs'  Association,  the  Profes- 
sional Engineers  Association  and  the  Inter- 
national Municipal  Signal  Association.  In  World 


War  II,  he  served  as  a  lieutenant  commander 
in  the  Navy. 

Howard  B.  Thomson,  '26,  passed  away  on  No- 
vember 13,  1982,  in  Clearwater,  FL.  He  was 
born  on  June  9,  1902,  in  Worcester. 

Following  his  graduation  as  an  electrical  en- 
gineer, he  joined  New  York  Telephone.  In  1966, 
he  retired  as  a  supervisor  for  the  firm  in  Syr- 
acuse. In  1968,  he  retired  permanently  from 
Thomson  Associates  (building  engineering). 

A  professional  engineer  in  New  York  State, 
Mr.  Thomson  was  active  with  the  Boys'  Club, 
the  Masons  and  various  church  choirs.  He  be- 
longed to  Theta  Chi,  Skull  and  the  Poly  Club. 

Edward  F.  Cahalen,  '27,  a  retired  chemist,  died 
on  November  27,  1982.  in  Livermore,  CA.  A 
native  of  Lenoxdale,  MA,  he  was  born  on  May 
27,  1901. 

During  his  career,  he  was  with  Seamless 
Rubber  Co.,  New  Haven,  CT.  Ross  &  Roberts 
Co.,  Stratford,  and  Van  Lew  Rubber  Co.,  New 
Haven,  from  which  he  retired  in  the  1960s. 

A  member  of  ATO,  Mr.  Cahalen  had  served 
as  president  of  the  New  Haven  chapter  of  the 
WPI  Alumni  Association,  as  council  repre- 
sentative and  as  class  treasurer.  He  was  a  past 
president  of  the  Fathers'  Club  of  Notre  Dame 
High  School  in  New  Haven  and  a  member  of 
St.  Peter's  Church.  He  was  the  father  of  Paul 
Cahalen,  '63,  and  John  Cahalen,  '67. 

Frank  S.  Finlayson,  '31,  of  Brewster,  MA,  a 


32        WPI  JOURNAL 


retired  professor  of  mechanical  engineering  at 
WPI,  died  on  November  29,  1982,  in  New  Eng- 
land Deaconess  Hospital,  Boston,  MA.  He  was 
born  in  Worcester  on  November  6,  1908. 

He  received  his  BSME  in  1931  and  his  MSME 
in  1945.  Joining  the  WPI  staff  as  an  instructor 
in  1937,  he  was  named  assistant  professor  in 
1943,  associate  professor  in  1947  and  professor 
in  1958.  He  retired  in  1974. 

A  research  analyst,  consultant,  and  author, 
during  his  career  he  was  associated  with  Har- 
rington &  Richardson,  Inc.,  Alden  Hydraulic 
Laboratory,  Harvard  University,  Whitin  Ma- 
chine Works,  L.  J.  Barrett  Co.,  Rice  Barton 
Corp.  and  Allis  Chalmers  Corp. 

In  1960  Prof.  Finlayson  participated  in  the 
first  conference  on  engineering  design  educa- 
tion at  Case  Institute.  He  belonged  to  the 
ASME,  the  American  Society  for  Engineering 
Education,  the  Tech  Old-Timers  and  Sigma  Xi. 
During  World  War  II,  he  taught  flying  at  Graf- 
ton Airport.  He  was  the  father  of  David  Fin- 
layson, '61,  and  Dana  Finlayson,  '67. 

Walter  Rutman,  '30,  a  Rhode  Island  publisher, 
died  December  8,  1982,  in  Providence  at  the 
age  of  74. 

A  native  of  Worcester,  he  received  his  BS 
in  chemistry.  He  belonged  to  AEP. 

Mr.  Rutman  owned  the  Herald  Press,  pub- 
lisher of  the  Rhode  Island  Herald,  and  Ondine 
Publishing  Company.  Formerly  he  was  the 
owner  and  publisher  of  The  East  Providence 
Post  and  The  Seekonk  Star. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  New  England  Press 
Association,  the  National  Association  of  Photo 
Lithographers  and  the  Ledgemont  Country 
Club.  An  honorary  board  member  of  Sandy 
Lane  Country  Club  in  Barbados,  he  also  was 
an  honorary  director  of  Trinity  Square  Rep- 
ertory Company. 

Edward  H.  Rouse,  '31,  of  Saint  Louis  Park, 
MN,  died  on  October  5,  1982.  He  was  born  in 
Bristol,  CT,  on  July  18,  1907. 

Graduated  as  an  electrical  engineer  from  WPI, 
he  belonged  to  Sigma  Xi. 

During  his  career,  Mr.  Rouse  was  with  Fac- 
tory Insurance  Association  and  Automatic 
Sprinkler  Company  of  America,  from  which 
he  retired  in  1958. 

Mr.  Rouse,  a  registered  mechanical  engi- 
neer, was  a  member  of  several  professional  so- 
cieties, as  well  as  the  Masons  and  of  Shriners. 
He  was  the  brother  of  Wesley  Rouse,  '36. 

Donald  S.  Clough,  '35,  of  Andover,  CT,  passed 
away  on  November  23,  1982,  a  few  days  before 
his  71st  birthday. 

For  many  years,  he  was  with  Pratt  &  Whit- 
ney Aircraft,  East  Hartford,  from  which  he  was 
retired  as  assistant  design  project  engineer. 

A  member  of  Theta  Chi,  he  also  was  active 
in  the  PTA  and  the  Boy  Scouts. 

Adam  Z.  Pizan,  '36,  a  retired  civil  engineer 
from  the  Massachusetts  Department  of  Public 
Works  (DPW),  died  at  his  home  in  West  Boyl- 
ston,  MA,  in  December.  He  was  69. 

With  the  exception  of  military  service  in  World 
War  II,  Mr.  Pizan  had  been  with  the  DPW 
since  1937.  He  retired  in  1978. 

A  Navy  veteran,  he  served  as  a  chief  car- 
penter's mate  in  the  war,  holding  the  post  of 
construction  inspector  on  the  Panama  Canal 
during  major  lock  construction. 


FEEDBACK 


Editor: 

I  enjoyed  the  article  "The  Plan: 
Is  It  Working?"  in  your  October  1982  is- 
sue. As  a  member  of  the  class  of  1976  I 
can  look  back  on  the  advantage  of  having 
project  work  as  an  integral  part  of  my 
undergraduate  education. 

I  would  like  to  point  out  an  error  on  p. 
12  in  the  article  which  perhaps  dilutes  the 
impact  and  innovation  of  what  an  IQP 
[Interactive  Qualifying  Project]  can  be. 
The  picture  of  the  "computer  science  ma- 
jor" with  the  "fourth  graders"  at  a  com- 
puter terminal  was  taken  on  a  field  trip 
to  the  computer  center  at  WPI  as  part  of 
an  IQP  under  the  guidance  of  Prof.  L.  H. 
Berka  of  the  Chemistry  Department.  The 
photograph,  however,  was  taken  in  1975. 
Those  fourth  graders  are  now  seniors  in 
high  school  with  some  of  their  college  ap- 
plications potentially  now  in  at  WPI. 


Home  computers  were  virtually  non- 
existent when  this  photograph  was  taken. 
In  the  December  1982  issue  of  Scientific 
American,  an  article  on  personal  com- 
puters states,  "In  1975  a  device  flexible 
enough  to  be  considered  the  first  com- 
mercially available  personal  computer  was 
developed  by  MITS,  Inc."  This  year  the 
personal  computer  market  is  expected  to 
approach  $3  billion  in  sales.  Through  an 
IQP,  the  students  in  that  picture  had  their 
first  experience  with  a  programmable  ma- 
chine in  a  world  which  is  now  surrounding 
them  with  such  devices.  I  hope  and  be- 
lieve they  are  the  better  for  it. 

I  feel  that  the  IQP  is  an  important  part 
of  the  Plan  and  enjoyed  the  freedom  I 
encountered  with  mine. 

Yours  truly, 

the  Chemistry  major  in  the  picture, 

Waher  X.  Zukas,  '76 


Mr.  Pizan,  a  Worcester  native,  belonged  to 
the  Massachusetts  Society  of  Professional  En- 
gineers and  Registered  Surveyors. 

Ravindra  L.  Kirloskar,  '38,  a  well-known  in- 
dustrial leader  in  India,  died  in  Kuala  Lumpur 
on  November  4,  1982. 

He  was  born  on  January  14,  1917,  in  Kir- 
loskarvadi,  India.  After  receiving  his  BSEE, 
he  spent  two  years  as  a  graduate  student  ap- 
prentice at  Westinghouse  Electric,  East  Pitts- 
burgh, PA.  He  then  joined  Kirloskar  Brothers 
Ltd.  in  Kirloskarvadi.  In  1947,  he  became  the 
founder  and  general  manager  of  Kirloskar 
Electric  Co.,  a  large  manufacturer  of  electric 
motors  in  Bangalore,  India.  At  the  time  of  his 
death,  he  was  chairman  and  managing  director. 

In  1974,  Mr.  Kirloskar  received  the  Robert 
H.  Goddard  award  from  WPI.  He  had  been 
an  associate  member  of  the  AIEE  and  presi- 
dent of  the  Institute  of  Management,  as  well 
as  president  of  the  Quality  Control  Associa- 
tion. He  was  the  father  of  Vijay  Kirloskar,  '74. 

Dr.  Amet  "Larry"  Powell,  '38,  died  at  his  home 
in  Wayland,  MA,  on  November  23,  1982.  He 
was  67  years  old. 

A  native  of  Worcester,  he  graduated  as  a 
chemist.  In  1940  he  earned  his  MS  from  WPI 
and  in  1956  his  PhD  from  Clark  University.  He 
completed  postdoctoral  work  at  Oxford  Uni- 
versity in  England. 

During  his  career,  he  was  with  Dow  Chem- 
ical Co.,  Sylvania  Electric  Products,  Inc.,  and 
the  Office  of  Naval  Research  in  Boston,  where 
he  served  as  deputy  director  and  chief  scientist. 
He  retired  from  the  Office  of  Naval  Research 
in  1979,  following  32  years  of  federal  service. 

A  member  of  Sigma  Xi,  Dr.  Powell  was  also 
a  former  officer  and  national  committee  mem- 
ber for  the  ACS.  He  was  affiliated  with  the 
American  Academy  of  Sciences,  the  New  York 
Academy  of  Sciences,  the  American  Associa- 
tion for  the  Advancement  of  Science,  the  Ki- 


wanis  Club,  the  Masons  and  the  Methodist 
Church. 

Dr.  Irving  A.  Breger,  '41,  a  research  chemist 
with  the  U.S.  Geological  Survey  for  28  years, 
died  in  Washington,  DC,  on  October  13,  1982. 
He  was  62  years  old. 

He  was  an  authority  in  geochemistry,  espe- 
cially in  the  study  of  the  relationship  between 
fossil  fuels  and  uranium.  He  retired  from  the 
Geological  Survey  in  1980.  Since  1975,  he  had 
been  a  consultant  to  the  Los  Alamos  scientific 
laboratory.  At  the  time  of  his  death,  he  was 
editor  of  Organic  Geochemistry ,  a  technical 
publication. 

A  native  of  Boston,  he  received  his  BS  in 
chemistry.  Later,  he  received  his  master's  de- 
gree and  PhD  from  MIT.  A  member  of  Sigma 
Xi,  he  had  also  been  awarded  Fulbright  and 
Guggenheim  fellowships.  He  belonged  to  AEP. 

A  fellow  of  the  American  Institute  of  Chem- 
ists, he  had  also  belonged  to  the  American  Oil 
Chemists  Society  and  the  International  Asso- 
ciation of  Sedimentologists.  He  helped  to  es- 
tablish the  geochemistry  division  of  the  Amer- 
ican Chemical  Society. 

J.  Lawrence  Krause,  '41,  a  lifelong  resident  of 
Millville,  NJ,  died  on  October  26,  1982,  at  the 
age  of  64. 

Graduated  as  a  mechanical  engineer  from 
WPI,  he  belonged  to  Lambda  Chi  Alpha. 

In  January  of  1982,  Mr.  Krause,  a  utility 
maintenance  engineer,  retired  from  Wheaton 
Glass  Co.,  Millville,  where  he  had  been  em- 
ployed for  38  years. 

Mr.  Krause  had  previously  belonged  to  the 
ASME  and  ASLE.  Active  with  the  Methodist 
Church,  he  was  a  charter  member  and  past 
president  of  the  Y's  Men's  Club,  as  well  as  a 
charter  member  and  assistant  director  of  the 
local  American  Legion  chorus. 

During  World  War  II,  he  held  the  rank  of 
captain  with  the  Army  Air  Corps. 


YOURS  FOR  THE  ASKING 

— A  firsthand  look  at  what's  happening  on  campus  and  what's 
new  with  your  classmates  and  other  WPI  friends.  PLUS 

— Receptions  .  .  .  seminars  .  .  .  tours  .  .  .  get-togethers  .  .  . 
sports  .  .  .  entertainment .  .  .  and  time  to  relax  and  savor 
the  memories. 


This  and  more  at  REUNION  '83,  JUNE  2-5,  for  the  classes  of  '23, 
'28,  "33,  '38,  '43,  '48,  '53,  '58  and  '63. 

PLAN  NOW  TO  ATTEND! 


SPECIAL  NOTE 

CHANGE  THE  DATE:  HOMECOMING  '83— and  REUNION  for  the 
classes  of  '68,  '73  and  '78— has  been  rescheduled  for  OCTOBER  1 ,  not 
October  1  5.  as  had  been  advertised  in  the  February  1 983  Journal  and 
elsewhere. 

SAVE  THE  DATE:  OCTOBER  1,  1983 


.=^' 


