POLYT 


MrUL 


OCT     3    1979 


GQItPN   LIBRARY 


Some  changes  in  the  Journal 

For  years,  the  WPI  Journal  has  carried 
advertising,  which  has  furnished  in 
some  years  up  to  15  percent  of  the 
costs  of  production.  But,  because  of 
some  complex  Postal  Service  regula- 
tions regarding  second  class  mail 
(which  is  how  the  Journal  is  sent), 
there  will  be  no  more  paid  ads.  It  was 
either  that  or  pay  much  more  in  the 
form  of  significantly  higher  postage 
costs. 

Together  with  this  change,  and 
effective  with  this  issue,  the  Journal 
will  be  sent  out  four  times  a  year  in- 
stead of  five.  Each  issue  will  have 
more  pages,  however,  so  that  you  will 
continue  to  receive  as  much  news 
and  information  about  WPI  and  your 
classmates  as  ever. 

To  the  Editor:  I  read  with  great  in- 
terest the  two  articles  in  the  April 
1979  WPI  Journal  in  regard  to  the  im- 
pact of  the  increased  federal  regula- 
tions on  colleges  and  universities.  My 
first  reaction  was  to  say  "Welcome  to 
the  Clubf  We,  as  a  small  private  busi- 
ness, are  impacted  by  most  of  the 
agencies  you  listed  plus  additional 
ones.  Additionally,  we  are  constantly 
filling  out  or  answering  requests  from 
state  and  town  regulatory  bodies. 

We  are  a  small  firm  of  about  100 
employees,  of  which  only  three  have 
college  educations.  Many  of  the 
forms  received  really  do  not  apply  to 
our  firm.  We  write  the  agencies  and 
explain  to  them  that  we  think  they 
are  in  error  in  requesting  information 
from  us  because  it  does  not  apply  to 
our  operation.  Usually  the  reply  is 
some  sort  of  computer  letter  back  ex- 
plaining that  we  are  covered  under 


the  regulations  and  must  fill  out  the 
information  or  be  subject  to  a  fine 
and/or  imprisonment.  The  time  and 
key  management  effort  to  complete 
the  forms  considerably  hamper  our 
operation  and  our  potential  growth. 

In  my  opinion,  our  government 
bureaucracies  on  all  levels  are  greatly 
adding  to  the  inflation  in  this  coun- 
try. They  are  obstacles  to  obtaining 
increases  in  productivity  in  the 
American  manufacturing  and  service 
industries. 

I  suggest  that  you  use  the  WPI 
Journal  as  a  forum  to  communicate 
to  people  the  effect  and  cost  that  in- 
creased government  regulations  are 
having,  not  only  on  the  universities 
but  also  on  the  businesses  of  this 
country.  Furthermore,  I  suggest  that 
the  Institute  require  all  students  to 
take  a  course  in  business  economics 
in  which  the  impact  of  government 
regulation  is  made  part  of  the  course. 
Hopefully  in  this  manner  we  can  ob- 
tain the  support  of  both  the  under- 
graduates and  graduates  to  become 
aware  of  this  increasing  probelm  and 
they  too  in  turn  will  let  their  repre- 
sentatives know  of  their  concerns 
about  this  issue. 

Thomas  McGee,  '64 
Petroleum  Meter  &)  Pump 
Co.,  Inc. 
Avon,  Connecticut 


To  the  Editor:  May  I  make  a  few 
comments  about  the  government 
over-regulation,  red  tape,  and  bureau- 
cratic controls  that  overwhelm  WPI 
and  much  of  our  society  today? 

I  feel  very  sorry  that  WPI  and 
other  colleges  and  schools  suffer  from 
excessive  government  interference. 
However,  I  believe  that  most  centers 
of  education,  WPI  perhaps  included, 
are  themselves  largely  responsible  for 
this  condition. 

Where  were  they  when  federal 
aid  to  education  started?  (By  the  way, 
I  opposed  it  from  the  start  and  gave 
speeches  against  it  because  I  knew 
that  federal  aid  meant  federal  con- 
trol.) The  more  money  the  federal 
government  has  spent  on  education, 
the  worse  it  has  become  nationally. 


Where  have  they  been  while  govern- 
ment grew  larger  and  larger,  with  defi- 
cit spending,  huge  budgets,  and  a  fan- 
tastic national  debt?  The  nominal  na- 
tional debt  is  around  $800  billion,  but 
is  more  accurately  $9  trillion  accord- 
ing to  the  National  Taxpayers  Union. 

Even  worse,  many  schools  have 
been  preaching  socialism  in  their  so- 
cial science  textbooks  for  years. 

According  to  a  survey  of  200  U.S. 
colleges  and  universities  by  a  com- 
mittee headed  by  state  Rep.  Donna 
Carlson  of  Arizona  in  1978,  the  top 
ten  guest  campus  speakers  have  been 
socialists,  even  communists.  U.S. 
News  and  World  Report  gave  a  simi- 
lar story. 

If  we  vote  right  next  time,  as  the 
British  finally  woke  up  to  do  in  des- 
peration, we  may  still  be  able  to  re- 
verse our  ruinous  socialistic  tide.  In 
the  meantime,  I  will  feel  very  sorry 
that  WPI  has  such  a  burden  of  red 
tape,  but  I  hope  that  you  and  the  rest 
of  our  people  will  do  something 
about  it. 

Ted  Latour,  '35 
Las  Vegas,  Nevada 


To  the  Editor:  Your  comprehensive 
coverage  of  the  impact  of  federal  reg- 
ulations on  WPI  and  other  colleges 
and  universities  in  the  April  issue  of 
the  WPI  Journal  was  greatly  appre- 
ciated. 

One  certainly  has  to  empathize 
with  the  institutions  of  higher  learn- 
ing on  this  subject.  Now  administra- 
tors and  faculties  will  come  to  realize 
what  the  business  world  has  had  to 
bear  over  the  years. 

It  would  be  gratifying  to  see  the 
articulate  leaders  of  academia  com- 
bine with  the  pragmatic  leaders  of 
business  to  present  a  forceful  front  to 
persuade  Government  to  eliminate 
these  uncreative,  unproductive,  and 
unneeded  procedures. 

Erling  Lagerholm,  '44 
Boston,  Massachusetts 


Vok-84  no. 

3 


UIPp 


o 


Summer  1979 


inside  front  cover: 

Feedback  from  our  readers  about  governmental  regulation. 

2        A  commencement  address  to  consider. 

Thoughts  for  an  age  where  technology  is  sometimes  consid- 
ered a  dirty  word,  by  [ohn  deButts,  retired  chairman  of 
AT&T. 

8  Energy:  Changing  sources  in  mid-stream 

Everybody  knows  about  the  energy  crisis.  But  what  do  we 
do  about  it?  Three  experts  address  the  topic. 

9  Toward  a  unique  coalition 

Evelyn  Murphy,  former  Massachusetts  Secretary  for  En- 
vironmental Affairs  proposes  a  new  and  interesting  way  for 
competing  factionsto  work  together. 

11        How  the  electric  utilities  can  cope 

The  president  of  New  England  Electric  talks  lucidly  about 
theutilities  role  in  changing  sources  of  energy. 

14        Developing  and  marketing  a  new  technology 

A  technology  R&D  middleman  looks  at  the  future. 

16        Questions  and  some  answers 


20        Who's  who 

Kay  Wear  Draper  —  WPI's  own  talkin'  woman. 


23 


Reunion  1979 


30        Can  you  help  us  out? 

It  seems  we've  lost  track  of  a  few  people  . . . 

32  Your  class  and  others 

35  Businessperson  of  the  year 

46  School  of  Industrial  Management 

46  Completed  Careers 

Cover:  The  WPI  campus  about  1909.  It  appears  that  we've  added  a 
few  buildings  since  then. 


Editor:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Alumni  Information  Editor:  Ruth  S.  Trask 

Publications  Committee: J.  Michael  Ander- 
son, '64,  chairman;  Leonard  ].  Brzozowski, 
74;  Robert  B.  Davis,  '46;  Robert  C.  Gosling, 
'68;  Samuel  W.  Mencow,  '37;  Kathleen  E.  Mo- 
lony,  77;  Roger  N.  Perry,  Jr.,  '46. 

Design:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Typesetting:  County  Photo  Compositing, 
Inc.,  Jefferson,  Mass.,  and  Davis  Press,  Inc., 
Worcester,  Mass. 

Printing:  The  House  of  Offset,  Somerville, 
Mass. 


Address  all  correspondence  to  the  Editor, 
The  WPI  Journal,  Worcester  Polytechnic  In- 
stitute, Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609. 
Telephone  (617)  753-1411. 

The  WPI  Journal  (ISSN  0148-6128)  is 
published  for  the  WPI  Alumni  Association 
by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute.  Copy- 
right ®  1979  by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute. All  rights  reserved. 

The  WPI  Journal  is  published  five  times  a 
year,  quarterly  plus  a  catalog  issue  (identi- 
fied as  no.  2)  in  September.  Second  class 
postage  paid  at  Worcester,  Massachusetts. 


WPI  ALUMNI  ASSOCIATION 

President:  John  H.  McCabe,  '68 

Senior  Vice  President:  Walter  B.  Dennen,  Jr., 
'51 

Vice  President:  Peter  H.  Horstmann,  '55 

Secretary-Treasurer:  Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President:  William  A.  Julian,  '49 

Executive  Committee  members-at-large:  Phi- 
lip B.  Ryan,  '65;  Donald  E.  Ross,  '54;  Anson 
C.  Fyler,  '45;  Harry  W  Tenney,  Jr.,  '56 

Faculty  representative:  Kenneth  E.  Scott,  '48 

Fund  Board:  G.  Albert  Anderson,  '51,  chair- 
man; Henry  Styskal,  Jr.,  '50,  vice  chairman; 
Richard  B.  Kennedy,  '65;  Gerald  Finkle,  '57; 
Philip  H.  Puddington,  '59;  Richard  A.  Davis, 
'53;  C.  John  Lindegren,  '39 


Summer  1979 /The  WPI  Journal/  1 


A  commencement  address 

to  consider. 


by  John  deButts,  retired  chairman  of  the  Board,  AT&T 


As  a  rule,  the  Journal  doesn't  print 
commencement  addresses.  If  the 
speaker  is  a  national  figure,  especially 
if  a  politician,  the  speech  is  often  un- 
related to  the  needs  or  the  situation 
of  either  the  students  or  the  institu- 
tion, serving  some  other  purpose  for 
the  speaker,  if  not  the  audience.  On 
the  other  hand,  commencement 
speeches  are  sometimes  too  trite,  too 
predictable,  too  dull,  or  too  specifi- 
cally aimed  at  the  single  audience  of 
graduating  seniors.  They  carry  a  mes- 
sage of  forward-looking  optimism 
combined  with  an  exhortation  about 
how  to  live  one's  life. 

If  you  just  skim  through  this 
year's  address  by  John  deButts,  retired 
chairman  of  the  board  of  AT&T,  you 
may  conclude  that  it  fits  the  tradi- 
tional mold  pretty  well.  But  please 
don't  just  stop  there.  DeButts  has  a 
message  for  us  all,  not  just  the  gra- 
duating scientists,  engineers,  and 
managers  of  the  class  of  1979.  He  is 
concerned  about  the  attitude  of  the 
American  people  toward  technology, 
and  about  how  the  engineering  pro- 
fession has  to  come  to  grips  with  that 
attitude.  It  is  a  message  for  us  and  for 
our  time. 


I  CONGRATULATE  YOU  and  wish  you  well  as  you 
confront  the  challenges  of  what  some  people  call  the  "real 
world."  That  term  implies  that  for  the  past  four  years  you 
have  dwelt  in  a  never-never  land,  shielded  from  the  bumps 
and  bruises  of  making  your  own  way  in  the  world  and  in- 
sulated from  the  risks  of  being  wrong.  You  know  better. 
And  even  though  it's  more  than  40  years  since  I  experi- 
enced the  rigors  of  an  engineering  education,  I  know  bet- 
ter too. 

It  has  been  a  long,  long  time  since  I  have  been 
engaged  in  the  practice  of  engineering.  But  I  have  never 
abandoned,  and  never  shall,  the  practice  of  engineering 
principles.  I  am  everlastingly  grateful  for  whatever  in- 
stinct it  was  that  led  me  to  join  a  profession  that  taught 
me  habits  of  mind  which  have  served  me  in  good  stead 
ever  since.  That  is  why  receiving  an  honorary  degree  of 
Doctor  of  Engineering  from  such  a  distinguished  institu- 
tion as  WPI  is  so  personally  meaningful  to  me. 


I  WOULD  LIKE  TO  SHARE  my  concern  over  three 
aspects  of  the  current  temper  of  American  society.  If  they 
should  turn  out  to  be  trends  and  remain  unreversed,  they 
would  make  this  country  a  much  different  place  —  and  in 
history  a  lesser  one  —  from  that  which  we  have  been 
developing  over  the  past  two  hundred  years. 
My  concerns  center  on 

►first,  what  I  perceive  as  a  growing  estrangement  from 
technology  on  the  part  of  a  substantial  number  of  our  fel- 
low citizens; 

►  second,  what  seems  to  me  an  increasing  readiness  to 
acquiesce  to  mediocrity,  to  settle  for  second-best;  and 

►third,  a  disposition  to  believe  that  in  an  increasingly 
complex  world  it  doesn't  make  much  difference  what  one 
person  does  or  fails  to  do. 

It  is  to  enlist  you  in  opposition  to  these  trends  that  I 
have  come  here  today. 


WHAT  IT  IS  THAT  ACCOUNTS  for  the  estrange- 
ment of  so  many  Americans  from  the  technology'  to 
which  they  owe  so  much  is  a  question  on  which  you  can 
speculate  as  authoritatively  as  I.  Certainly  it  is  a  strange 
development  for  a  society  whose  technology  is  the  envy 
of  the  world.  Even  today  —  in  an  era  in  which  a  great 
many  other  countries,  inspired  by  our  example,  have  made 
technology  the  central  engine  of  their  progress  —  the 
United  States'  gross  domestic  product  accounts  for  nearly 
40  percent  of  the  total  market  economy  of  all  the  major 
industrial  countries  in  the  free  world. 

Next  month  we  will  mark  the  tenth  anniversary  of 
man's  first  walk  on  the  moon.  Since  that  moment  in  July 
1969,  eleven  more  astronauts,  all  Americans,  have  dupli- 
cated Neil  Armstrong's  feat.  While  it  is  arguable  as  to 
whether  the  space  program  accelerated  the  nation's  tech- 
nological development  or  merely  diverted  its  focus,  there 
is  little  argument  about  the  fact  that  most  Americans  — 
for  a  time,  at  any  rate  —  saw  it  as  the  crowning  manifesta- 
tion of  this  country's  technological  genius. 

But  what  went  wrong;  Why,  at  the  end  of  a  decade 
that  began  in  euphoria  over  the  U.S.  exploits  in  space,  do 
we  find  enthusiasm  supplanted  by  a  growing  wariness  - 
even  fear  —  of  technology?  Why  are  an  apparently  grow- 
ing number  of  people  ready  to  say,  in  effect,  "Stop  the 
world,  I  want  to  get  off"? 

The  antitechnology  mood  is  diverse.  Some  people  are 
simply  put  off,  and  turned  off,  by  the  complexity  that 
technology  has  brought  to  modern  society.  Others  see 
grave  hazards  to  health  and  safety,  even  to  life  itself,  in 
what  appears  to  them  a  heedless  assumption  that  what 
can  be  done  should  be  done. 

For  some  it  was  the  war  in  Viet  Nam;  for  others  the 
environmental  consequences  of  oil  tanker  spills  and  pol- 
lution of  the  air  and  water  from  industrial  sources.  The  in- 
cident at  Three  Mile  Island  brought  new  recruits  to  the 
ranks  of  those  who  would  call  a  halt  to  the  further  devel- 
opment of  nuclear  energy  power  sources. 


Summer  1979 /The  WPI  Journal/ 3 


What  went  wrong!  Why,  at  the 
end  of  a  decade  that  began  in 
euphoria  over  U.S.  exploits  in 
space,  do  we  find  enthusiasm 
supplanted  by  a  growing  fear  of 
technology! 


Governor  Dixie  Lee  Ray  of  the  state  of  Washington, 
former  chairman  of  the  Atomic  Energy  Commission, 
warns  against  a  philosophy  that,  in  her  view,  could  immo- 
bilize the  nation.  "It  is,"  she  says,  "a  philosophy  of  go  slow, 
stop,  limit  everything  be  fearful,  don't  progress,  don't  have 
any  growth." 

Clearly,  if  that  philosophy  should  prevail,  it  would 
mean  the  end  of  economic  progress  and  a  sign  that  we  are 
ready  to  abandon  our  country's  historic  aim  as  well  —  the 
aim  of  ever-expanding  opportunity  for  all  our  people. 


I  WONDER,  THOUGH,  whether  the  immediate  occa- 
sions I've  cited  are  a  sufficient  explanation  for  what  ap- 
pears to  be  the  end  of  America's  two-hundred-year  love  af- 
fair with  technology.  The  roots  of  the  estrangement,  I 
think,  lie  deeper.  I  think  it  springs  from  the  abruptness 
with  which  we  have  been  reminded  that  we  have  entered 
an  era  of  limits. 

From  their  first  beginnings  on  the  rim  of  this  enor- 
mous continent,  Americans  have  continuously  —  and  al- 
most heedlessly  —  spent  their  resources  as  if  there  were 
no  limit  to  their  supply,  no  tomorrow  to  hold  us  to  ac- 
count for  their  spending.  One  does  not  have  to  subscribe 
to  the  Doomsday  projections  of  the  Club  of  Rome  to  rec- 
ognize the  clear  signals  on  every  side  that  we  are  moving 
from  an  age  of  abundance  to  an  age  of  increasing  scarcity 
of  material  after  material  we  had  previously  considered  in 
almost  limitless  supply;  from  an  age  that  set  Growth  Un- 
limited as  its  goal  to  one  that  may  not  be  altogether  with- 
out its  blessings  because  it  will  force  us  to  examine,  virtu- 
ally for  the  first  time,  the  quality  of  that  growth. 

The  first  lesson  of  this  new  age  is  one  we've  all  heard 
before  and  never  really  believed:  we  can't  have  everything. 
It  will  take  hard  thinking,  and  painful  choices,  to  decide 
what  it  is  we  really  want. 

But  the  fact  that  we  have  entered  upon  an  era  of 
limits  calls,  in  my  mind,  for  more  technology  rather  than 
less.  It  will  take  more  technology,  not  less,  to  discover  and 
develop  the  alternate  energy  sources  the  nation  needs.  It 
will  take  more  technology,  not  less,  to  assure  the  safe  dis- 
posal —  and  perhaps  the  creative  reuse  —  of  the  wastes  of 
an  ever  more  complex  society.  It  will  take  more  technol- 
ogy, not  less,  to  assure  the  manageability  and  the  livability 

4 /The  WP1  Journal / Summer  1979 


of  our  cities  and  the  rational  development  of  their  infras- 
tructures —  transportation,  communications,  power.  In 
short,  it  will  take  more  technology,  not  less,  to  assure  civi- 
lization. 

More  than  to  any  other  calling,  it  seems  to  me,  the 
challenges  of  this  new  age  are  addressed  directly  to  the 
engineering  profession  and  what  I  take  to  be  its  basic  mis- 
sion: achieving  maximum  utility  with  least  means.  In  the 
years  ahead,  as  scarcities  confront  us  with  a  whole  new  or- 
dering of  costs,  I  anticipate  that  "elegance,"  as  engineers 
construe  the  word  (getting  the  most  for  the  least),  will  be- 
come not  merely  an  idealistic  goal  but  our  most  urgent 
practical  priority. 

I  would  not  presume  to  prescribe  new  directions  for 
engineering  in  this  new  era.  I  do  know  that  the  facts  of 
world  economic  life  in  the  new  age  demand  that  we  ad- 
dress ourselves  anew  to  devising  ways  of  using  less  to 
make  more  —  in  short,  to  the  productivity  improvements 
that'are  so  crucial  to  the  fight  against  inflation. 

For  the  same  reasons,  cost  reduction  engineering,  un- 
glamorous  as  it  may  appear,  takes  on  a  new  urgency.  Even 
processes  from  which  we  might  have  thought  we  had 
squeezed  the  last  vestiges  of  excess  cost  will  call  for  a  new 
look  as  materials  and  energy  sources  once  abundant  grow 
scarce  and  dear. 

To  none  of  these  prospects  do  I  look  forward  with 
foreboding.  I  doubt  that  anyone  trained  in  engineering 
does.  Indeed,  I  am  confident  that  you  share  my  view  that 
the  age  ahead,  for  all  its  rigors,  will  stimulate  the  engi- 
neering profession  to  new  levels  of  technological  accom- 
plishment, new  levels  of  service  to  the  nation. 

Indeed,  it  may  produce  a  new  engineering.  Professor 
Jay  Forrester  of  M.I.T.  relates  the  "long  waves"  in  our 
society's  economic  activity  —  the  so-called  Kondratieff  cy- 
cles —  to  the  rise  and  fall  of  technologies.  We  are,  he  sug- 
gests, at  a  point  where  further  capital  investments  embo- 
dying refinements  of  traditional  technology  yield  dimin- 
ishing returns.  What  new  burst  of  technological  creativity 
will  power  the  next  great  economic  advance  he  does  not 
predict.  For  my  part,  I  will  venture  the  notion  that  the  in- 
frastructure industry  of  the  future  will  be  what  Professor 
Tony  Oettinger  calls  "compunications"  —  the  merged 
technologies  of  communications  and  computation. 

It  is  an  occasion  for  optimism,  I  think,  that  these  two 
industries  in  which  the  technological  leadership  of  the 
U.S.  remains  undisputed  —  communications  and  data  pro- 
cessing —  are  precisely  those  industries  whose  products 
and  services  are  likeliest  to  exercise  the  greatest  leverage 
on  the  productivity  of  other  industries  and,  most  notably, 
on  the  service  industries  that  have  come  to  characterize 
so  much  of  our  economy  and  which  heretofore  we  have 
considered  uncommonly  resistant  to  productivity  im- 
provement. 


To  summarize  to  this  point,  I  believe  it  is  crucial  that 
Americans  repair  their  current  estrangement  from  tech- 
nology. What  is  more,  I  believe  that  through  a  new  com- 
mitment to  technology,  we  can  surmount  our  current 
"crises"  with  no  more  than  a  transitory  slowing  of  eco- 
nomic growth.  I  will  go  farther  and  say  that  I  believe  that 
out  of  our  experience  with  the  new  challenges  now  con- 
fronting us  will  emerge  a  stronger  America  —  stronger  for 
being  sparer  —  than  we  have  ever  known  before. 

For  that  to  happen,  though,  will  require  a  broader,  de- 
eper understanding  of  what  technology  is  and  what  it  is 
not  on  the  part  of  our  fellow  Americans.  And  for  that  to 
happen,  technologists  must  become  educators;  engineers 
must  be  teachers. 


1  have  come  to  this  remarkable 
school  to  deliver  this  message 
because  there  is  perhaps  no 
place  in  the  nation  where  it 
would  be  more  quickly 
understood  and  —  /  hope  — 
more  quickly  heeded. 


IN  MY  VIEW  these  are  times  when  the  qualities  of 
mind  the  engineering  profession  nurtures  are  much 
needed  in  our  society  . . .  and  as  much  in  the  realm  of  pub- 
lic affairs  as  in  technology. 

No  attribute  of  the  engineer  is  more  suited  to  these 
times  than  his  habit  of  thinking  in  systems.  Routinely  on 
the  job,  the  engineer  considers  what  trade-offs  —  of 
strength  for  speed,  of  long  life  for  low  first  cost  —  are  nec- 
essary to  achieve  the  design  intent.  Our  larger  society 
urgently  needs  lessons  in  the  discipline  of  proportioning 
means  to  ends. 

What  the  times  demand  is  not  a  dramatic  leadership 
but  a  reasoning  one,  a  leadership  disciplined  by  experi- 
ence in  matching  aims  to  the  resources  necessary  to 
achieve  them,  a  leadership  unafraid  of  complexity  and 
confident,  because  it  has  done  so,  that  complexity  can  be 
managed.  Sharing  that  confidence  with  your  fellow  citi- 
zens may  well  turn  out  to  be  engineering's  greatest  contri- 
bution to  these  times. 

I  have  come  to  this  remarkable  school  to  deliver  this 
message  because  there  is  perhaps  no  place  in  the  nation 
where  it  would  be  more  quickly  understood  and  —  I  hope 
—  more  quickly  heeded.  Your  well-known  and  much  dis- 
cussed program  for  the  training  and  development  of  hu- 
manistically literate  technologists  provides  a  fertile  bed  to 
replant  the  seeds  of  the  idea  that  a  technological  society 
depends  upon  a  technologically  literate  public. 

So  I  bid  the  engineers  and  scientists  among  you  to 
take  on  the  role  of  public  teachers,  not  as  dogmatic  apos- 
tles of  the  technology  religion  but  as  patient,  objective  ex- 
plainers of  what  is  so  and  what  is  not,  remembering  that 
in  the  end  the  pace  of  technological  progress  is  not  a  mat- 
ter to  be  decided  by  technologists  alone  but  by  the  entire 
body  of  our  citizenry.  In  the  end,  technological  progress 
depends  upon  public  acceptance.  And  that  acceptance  de- 
pends, ultimately,  on  public  understanding. 


I  WANT  TO  COUNTER,  and  urge  you  to  counter,  the 
second  and  third  of  the  trends  I  mentioned  at  the  outset, 
trends  that  seem  to  me  to  endanger  the  vitality  of  this  de- 
mocracy: the  acceptance  of  mediocrity  and  the  belief  that 
no  individual's  actions  matter.  Taken  together,  I  would 
characterize  these  as  a  retreat  from  excellence. 

What  I  have  in  mind  you  may  gather  from  the  fact 
that,  of  five  "scenarios"  the  Hudson  Institute  is  using  in  its 
appraisal  of  our  economic  prospects  between  now  and 
1985,  the  one  it  considers  most  probable  is  labeled  "Mud- 
dling Through."  What  most  characterizes  this  scenario,  ac- 
cording to  the  Institute,  is  inaction.  There  will  be  a  short- 
age of  innovative  leadership,  the  Institute  opines,  and 
what  will  principally  motivate  decision  —  or  indecision 
—  is  a  "fear  of  negative  outcomes"  —  in  other  words,  an 
unreadiness  to  reach  high  for  fear  of  falling. 

Is  this  the  stirring  challenge  toward  which  you've 
pointed  for  the  past  four  years?  Is  your  generation  ready  to 
acquiesce  to  minimizing  downside  risk  as  the  main  aim  of 
our  society?  I  trust  not. 

As  with  the  estrangement  of  Americans  from  technol- 
ogy, it  may  be  that  the  current  disposition  of  Americans 
to  settle  for  the  second  best,  the  merely  average,  reflects 
the  disappointment  of  hopes  that  may  have  been  pitched 
too  high  in  the  first  place.  More  particularly,  some  people 
say  —  and  there  may  be  some  truth  in  it  —  that  our  cur- 
rent mood  is  simply  a  natural  and  perhaps  inevitable  reac- 
tion to  the  euphoria  that  characterized  the  outset  of  the 
1960s.  In  that  time,  it  seemed,  there  was  nothing  Ameri- 
cans might  not  do  if  they  once  set  their  minds  on  doing  it. 
In  the  1960s  we  came  to  believe  that  we  could  not  only 
engineer  our  way  to  the  moon,  we  could  engineer  the 
good  life  as  well.  And  so  we  set  out  to  create  the  Great  So- 
ciety. Under  its  banner  we  declared  simultaneous  wars  on 
poverty  and  discrimination  and  ugliness,  and  we  looked 
forward  to  victory  in  our  time  over  all  of  these. 

Today,  at  the  end  of  another  decade,  and  many  hun- 
dreds of  billions  of  dollars  later,  those  victories  remain  to 
be  won  and  our  once-high  hopes  have  been  supplanted  by 
a  profound  sense  of  the  intractibility  of  social  ills  and  a 
profound  disenchantment  that  bureaucracies  can  do  very 
much  about  them.  Things  simply  don't  seem  to  work  the 
way  they're  supposed  to. 

.Summer  1979/ The  WP1  journal/ 5 


In  the  1 960s  we  came  to 
believe  that  we  could  not  only 
engineer  our  way  to  the  moon, 
we  could  engineer  the  good  life 
as  well.  We  declared 
simultaneous  wars  on  poverty 
and  discrimination  and 
ugliness,  and  we  looked 
forward  to  victory  in  our  time 
over  all  of  these. 


Today,  those  victories  remain 
to  be  won  and  our  once-high 
hopes  have  been  supplanted  by 
a  profound  sense  of  the 
intractibility  of  social  ills  and  a 
profound  disenchantment  that 
bureaucracies  can  do  very 
much  about  them.  Things 
simply  don't  seem  to  work  the 
way  they're  supposed  to. 


Nobody,  for  example,  seems  to  be  able  to  do  anything 
about  inflation,  and  the  prospect  that  prices  will  just  keep 
on  going  up  and  up  and  up  is  truly  frightening  to  a  great 
many  people.  Add  to  that  the  disenchantments  that  have 
come  in  the  wake  of  Watergate,  and  you  will  have  gone  a 
long  way  toward  explaining  the  cynicism  a  great  many 
Americans  have  come  to  feel  about  the  motives  and  stan- 
dards that  govern  the  principal  institutions  of  our  society. 

What  we  seem  unready  to  recognize,  however,  is  that 
the  decline  in  public  confidence  in  our  institutions  is  in 
fact  a  decline  in  confidence  in  ourselves.  When  institu- 
tions fail,  it  is  because  people  fail.  The  crimes  of  Wa- 
tergate, for  example,  of  the  widely  publicized  instances  of 
political  bribery  by  business,  were  not  crimes  of  "the  sys- 
tem" but  crimes  of  individuals.  After  all,  institutions  can't 
tell  right  from  wrong.  Only  people  can.  In  short,  it  is  a  de- 
cline in  the  individual's  responsibility  to  society  —  what 
in  ancient  days  we  called  "civic  virtue"  —  that  is  at  the 
root  of  our  current  malaise. 

•    Sooner  or  later,  it  is  the  personal  sense  of  accountabil- 
ity of  the  people  who  compose  them  that  determines  the 
character  of  organizations  . . .  and  of  nations.  From  its  loss, 
through  arrogance  or  insensitivity,  have  come  our  most 
shocking  disillusionments.  Upon  its  restoration  depend 
the  strength  of  our  society  and  the  strength  of  the  institu- 
tions —  its  colleges  as  well  as  its  corporations  —  that  give 
it  purpose  and  direction. 


TO  MY  URGING  of  a  renewed  sense  of  personal  re- 
sponsibility to  the  larger  community,  it  might  well  be  ob- 
jected that  the  sheer  scale  of  our  society,  the  complexity 
of  its  institutions,  and  the  momentum  of  their  undertak- 
ings so  dwarf  the  individual  that  what  one  person  might 
do  or  fail  to  do  hardly  makes  any  difference. 


One  might  even  go  so  far  as  to  ask,  can  man  effec- 
tively manage  complexity? 

My  own  experience  over  more  than  four  decades  in 
the  management  of  one  quite  sizable  and  highly  complex 
enterprise  has  left  me  with  the  conviction  that  the  answer 
to  that  question  is  an  unqualified  yes. 

Not  everybody  shares  that  conviction.  Indeed,  a  sense 
of  powerlessness  in  the  face  of  the  sheer  scale  and  intri- 
cacy of  contemporary  institutions  appears  to  have  driven 
a  great  many  Americans  to  seek  their  satisfactions  in,  so 
to  speak,  the  cultivation  of  their  own  gardens.  Perhaps  it 
is  to  this  same  sense  of  powerlessness  that  we  can  ascribe 
the  disposition  of  a  good  many  young  people  to  strike  out 
—  sometimes  it  appears  almost  as  a  conditioned  reflex  — 
at  virtually  every  aspect  of  the  so-called  Establishment. 
Particularly  troubling  is  their  readiness  to  ascribe  malevo- 
lence to  people  —  business  management,  for  example  — 
who  are  surely  no  less  humane  than  they  and  who,  in  the 
face  of  complex  circumstances,  are  simply  trying  to  do  the 
very  best  job  they  know  how  to  do. 

I  can  only  hope  that  history  will  be  sufficiently  dis- 
cerning to  recognize  that  the  heroes  of  these  times  are  not 
those  among  us  with  the  most  strident  voices,  but  rather 
those  quiet,  patient  people  who,  professing  themselves  no 
brighter  than  the  rest  of  us,  set  off  to  find,  in  science  labs 
and  in  engineering  offices,  the  answers  to  the  hard  ques- 
tions that  confront  us. 

Let  me  say  this  with  as  much  passion  as  I  can  muster: 
This  is  no  time  for  a  retreat  from  rationality.  Granted  that 
our  society's  problems  are  difficult  and  deep-seated; 
granted  that  the  search  for  their  solutions  can  be  pro- 
foundly frustrating;  granted  too  that  solutions  that  are 
best  for  almost  everybody  are  almost  certain  to  meet  the 
perfect  satisfaction  of  nobody  —  granting  all  these  things, 
I  nonetheless  urge  that  you  engage  yourselves  in  the  po- 
litical process  that  will  in  the  long  run  shape  the  future  of 
your  town,  your  state,  your  country. 


6 /The  WP1  journal / Summer  1979 


fe-r 


For  only  as  each  one  of  us  is  ready  to  commit  himself 
or  herself  to  the  arduous  and  unceasing  contest  of  ideas 
and  interests  and  values  hy  which  Americans  set  their 
goals,  establish  priorities,  and  make  up  their  minds  on 
matters  of  public  policy  can  we  be  assured  that  when  you 
stand  where  I  stand  now,  a  generation  hence,  you  will  be 
able  to  say  with  confidence  and  pnde  that  in  this  land  of 
ours  freedom  still  lives. 


FINALLY,  whatever  you  choose  to  do  in  the  years  ahead, 
content  yourself  with  nothing  less  than  doing  it  just  as 
well  as  you  know  how.  Whether  it's  spoons  or  brook-sized 
turbines  or  space  capsules  that  you  make,  make  them  the 
best. 

What  difference  will  it  make? 

It's  understandable,  I  suppose,  that  as  the  nation's  pop- 
ulation grows,  as  its  institutions  grow  larger  and  more  in- 
tricate, that  some  people  should  come  to  think  that  what 
any  one  individual  might  contribute  to  the  quality  of  our 
national  life  is  becoming  of  less  and  less  consequence.  It 
is  to  that  dispositon,  I  surmise,  that  we  can  attribute  the 
shoddiness  of  workmanship  we  encounter  all  too  often  in 
the  products  we  buy  these  days  and  the  bored  indifference 
with  which  we  are  greeted  by  the  employees  of  so  many 
institutions,  both  public  and  private,  whose  business  it 
presumably  is  to  serve  the  public. 

But  the  opposite  is  true.  The  more  interdependent  so- 
ciety becomes,  the  more  crucial  is  the  performance  of  the 
individuals  who  make  it  up.  An  analogy  from  technology 
will  demonstrate  this.  In  our  business  we  have  learned 
that,  as  the  numbers  of  interdependent  components  in  our 
vast  communications  system  grows,  the  more  vulnerable 
to  failure  the  system  becomes.  We  call  this  "the  tyranny  of 
large  numbers."  Overcoming  it  depends  on  the  degree  of 
reliability  we  build  into  each  and  every  component.  Some 
of  the  components  of  our  current  electronic  switching  sys- 
tems are  manufactured  to  a  standard  that,  translated  into 
layman's  terms,  calls  for  no  more  than  a  single  failure  in 
ten  thousand  years.  We  call  that  "mean  time  to  failure." 
What  I  am  hoping,  then,  is  that  each  of  you,  individually, 
will  conduct  your  life  as  if  the  nation's  very  future  de- 
pended on  it . . .  because  it  does. 

Even  were  this  not  the  case,  I  would  have  no  more 
important  message  to  convey  to  you  today  than  to  urge 
upon  you  a  will  to  excellence.  It  was  the  gist  of  my  final 
message  to  my  colleagues  in  the  business  in  which  I  spent 
almost  43  years.  It  is  the  essence  of  what  I've  learned. 


In  the  end,  the  pace  of 
technological  progress  is  not  a 
matter  to  be  decided  by 
technologists  alone  but  by  the 
entire  body  of  our  citizenry 
Technological  progress  depends 
upon  public  acceptance,  and, 
ultimately,  on  public 
understanding. 


IN  THE  FINAL  ANALYSIS,  it  is  not  we  who  exist  for 
society's  sake.  In  truth,  societies,  nations,  institutions  ex- 
ist for  no  other  end  save  the  fulfillment  —  what  we  used 
to  call  salvation  —  of  the  individuals  who  make  them  up. 
We  have  no  greater  responsibility,  then,  than  to  be  and  do 
—  and  to  help  each  other  be  and  do  —  the  very  best  we 
can. 


Summer  1919/  The  WP1  Journal  /  7 


ENERGY: 


mid-stream 


What's  to  do  about  energy? 

Everybody's  got  the  answer,  and  nobody's  got  the  answer. 
The  one  thing  we  know  for  sure  is  the  problem.  The  earth 
is  running  out  of  fossil  fuels  at  an  alarming  rate.  However 
big  the  reserves  may  be,  they  are  finite,  and  they  are  being 
exhausted. 

Everybody  know's  we've  got  to  find  other  alternatives  — 
and  we've  got  to  make  them  work.  The  remaining  ques- 
tion is:  How  do  we  get  from  here  to  there?  How  do  we 
move  from  an  economy,  a  lifestyle,  and  a  technology 
based  on  abundant  energy  provided  largely  by  oil  and  gas? 
How  do  we  arrive  at  a  state  where  we  can  produce  enough 
energy  through  the  use  of  renewable  or  truly  unlimited  re- 
sources? How  do  we  temper  our  habits  and  our  lives  to  cut 
out  the  waste  and  the  frivolous  uses  of  energy  that  have 
so  long  been  a  part  of  our  society? 

We  are  entering  an  age  of  real  transition:  change  will  dra- 
matically affect  our  jobs,  our  homes,  our  transportation, 
how  we  spend  our  time,  and  how  we  conduct  our  lives. 
Many  things  we  have  taken  for  granted  all  our  years  can 
no  longer  be  assumed.  One  is  reminded  of  the  Chinese 
curse:  "May  you  live  in  interesting  times." 

The  articles  that  follow  were  first  presented  on  campus 
last  spring.  They  raise  some  interesting  questions,  and 
they  propose  some  even  more  interesting  solutions. 


Toward  a  unique 
coalition 

by  Evelyn  Murphy 


ONE  OF  THE  MOST  CONFUSING  TOPICS  of  pub 

lie  debate  is  the  energy  crisis,  especially  in  Massachusetts 
and  in  New  England,  where  choices  are  complex  and  diffi- 
cult. I  want  to  talk  about  energy  in  simple,  straightforward 
terms  with  a  minimum  of  technical  jargon  and  a  max- 
imum of  common  sense. 

The  need  right  now  is  to  act.  We  have  enough  data. 
We  have  thought  about  and  analyzed  energy  problems  ex- 
tensively. We've  considered  so  many  alternative  options 
and  courses  of  action  that  we  have  confused  and  some- 
times even  lost  sight  of  the  energy  crisis  at  hand.  But  de- 
spite the  plethora  of  information  and  options,  there  has 
been  an  absence  of  constructive  action  by  government  - 
state  and  federal,  institutions  with  resources  and  leader- 
ship potential  —  to  start  the  necessary  transition  in  en- 
ergy production.  It  is  clear  that  a  transition  must  take 
place,  that  we  must  move  toward  an  era  of  using  energy 
through  renewable  natural  resources,  such  as  wind,  solar 
energy,  ocean,  and  biomass.  I  need  not  remind  anyone  who 
manages  the  family  budget,  anyone  who  shops  for  food 
nowadays  or  who  buys  clothes  or  goes  to  the  gasoline 
pump,  that  we're  no  longer  an  affluent  society.  This  na- 
tion, and  particularly  New  England,  is  in  grave  economic 
straits.  Inflation,  driven  primarily  by  energy  costs,  has  hit 
hard  in  Massachusetts  and  we  suffer  from  some  of  the 
highest  food  and  energy  prices  in  the  country.  We  all 
know  the  situation;  it's  not  a  new  phenomenon.  The  signs 
of  economic  strain  and  curtailed  life  styles  have  been 
with  us  unrelentingly  for  years  now. 

And  yet  what  positive  steps  are  we  taking?  As  a  con- 
sumer are  you  using  less  energy  than  a  year  ago  —  less 
gasoline  in  your  automobile,  less  home  heating  oil  at 
home?  Probably  not.  Like  me,  you  probably  turned  down 
the  thermostat  three  years  ago  and  energy  conservation 
stopped  there.  But  why  is  it  that  we  have  not  acted  as  in- 
dividuals? The  President  of  the  United  States  has  told  us 
on  two  separate,  dramatically  televised  occasions,  that 
this  nation  is  in  trouble,  that  the  energy  crisis  is  the 
moral  equivalent  of  war,  that  we  must  pay  more  to  use 
less  energy.  Many  of  us  believe  him.  He  is  the  most  im- 
portant public  official  in  this  nation  and  he  has  the  most 
information  on  the  situation.  We  want  to  believe  him. 

But  statements  from  other  official  sources  provide  ex- 
cuses for  inaction,  as  we  hear  a  cacophony  of  voices 
describing  the  status  of  oil  supplies.  This  spring  the  Secre- 
tary of  Energy  testified  that  this  nation  is  short  500,000 


barrels  a  day.  The  Congressional  Research  Service,  on  the 
other  hand,  argues  that  the  shortage  of  oil  is  only  80,000 
barrels  a  day.  The  big  oil  companies  talk  about  a  world- 
wide deficit  of  2.5  million  barrels  a  day.  Confusing  and  of- 
ten contradictory  data  allow  us  to  ponder  rather  than  act, 
waiting  prudently  (we  often  assure  ourselves)  until  the 
full  dimensions  of  the  problem  are  understood. 

Confusing,  conflicting  data  raise  deep  suspicions  in 
all  of  us  that  the  energy  crisis  is  overblown.  Permeating 
our  society  is  a  feeling  that  perhaps  there  is  no  problem 
except  that  invented  by  the  oil  companies  for  their  own 
financial  gain.  But  I  suspect  the  principal  reason  that  we 
do  not  act  is  a  feeling  of  helplessness.  How  can  you  or  I 
make  a  difference  in  matters  seemingly  ruled  by  OPEC 
prices,  by  Iranian  political  turmoil,  by  the  big  oil  and  nu- 
clear interests,  by  the  mammoth  federal  bureaucracies? 
And  yet  surely  we  should  be  further  along  toward  an  age 
of  energy  through  renewable  resources,  not  just  at  the 
starting  point,  which  is  where  we  are  now. 

Where  have  the  leading  institutions  been?  Not  one 
utility  company  in  this  country  has  made  significant  in- 
vestment in  anything  but  oil,  coal,  and  nuclear  plants.  I  do 
not  mean  to  point  a  finger  of  blame  at  the  utility  compa- 
nies. That  would  be  too  simplistic.  Much  of  the  responsi- 
bility rests  with  the  national  policy  on  energy.  $12  billion 
in  federal  subsidies  maintain  an  artificial  preference  for 
conventional  fuels.  Federal  expenditures  for  alternative 
energy  were  recently  doubled,  up  to  $500  million.  That's 
one-twentieth  of  the  $12  billion  annually  spent  on  the 
other  types  of  energy.  That  underscores  the  serious  bias 
against  alternative  and  renewable  resources.  Is  it  any  won- 
der, then,  that  the  utiity  companies  of  this  country  are 
still  locked  into  fossil  fuels?  They  are  simply  following  the 
public  policy  that  speaks  the  loudest  —  the  federal  bud- 
get. 

We  can  address  the  immediate  problems  —  the  oil 
supplies,  the  question  about  safety  of  nuclear  power,  the 
nsing  demand  for  oil  and  electricity  —  and  we  can  start 
the  transition  into  a  different  era.  But  the  federal  govern- 
ment seems  primarily  focused  on  the  immediate  problem. 
I  believe,  therefore,  the  only  way  we're  going  to  get  on 
with  transition  to  the  use  of  solar  and  hydro  and  winds 
and  rivers  and  oceans,  is  if  we  do  it  ourselves  at  the 
grassroots  level,  here  in  Massachusetts,  here  in  the  com- 
munities of  New  England.  We  can  do  it  ourselves.  I  want 
to  suggest  three  ways,  describe  three  elements  of  how  we 
proceed  from  here. 


Ms.  Evelyn  Murphy  is  currently  a  Fellow  at  the  Harvard 
Institute  for  Politics,  and  was  formerly  State  Secretary  for 
Environmental  Affairs  in  the  Dukakis  administration.  Ms. 
Murphy  holds  a  B.A.  in  mathematics  and  a  master's  degree 
and  Ph.D.  in  economics.  Before  joining  the  Dukakis  ad- 
ministration, she  was  a  partner  in  Lewelyn  Davis  Incorpo- 
rated, of  New  York  City,  a  firm  of  international  planning 
consultants. 


Summer  1979 /  The  WP1  Journal/ 9 


FIRST,  BARGAINS  MUST  BE  STRUCK  in  the  con 

struction  of  the  next  large,  so-called  base-load  electric 
generating  plants.  I  think  of  this  as  an  investment  in  the 
future.  The  most  important  step  in  getting  a  transition 
under  way  hinges  on  the  construction  of  the  next  large 
plant.  In  Massachusetts  we'll  need  at  least  one  more  plant 
to  carry  us  through  that  transition,  say  through  to  the 
year  2000.  Nowadays,  when  plant  construction  is  an- 
nounced, large  protests  are  often  successful  in  blocking 
construction;  at  the  least  they  can  cause  costly  delays. 
The  proposed  plant  may  use  coal,  such  as  in  Kaiparowits, 
Utah,  or  nuclear,  as  in  Seabrook,  New  Hampshire.  Neither 
option  is  exempt  from  protest,  and  neither  option  is  par- 
ticularly desirable.  In  different  ways,  each  jeopardizes 
people's  health  and  safety.  But  these  are  the  only  two  op- 
tions which  are  technologically  and  politically  feasible 
and  available  now  to  meet  large-scale  demands.  Therefore, 
the  need  now  is  not  for  us  to  be  completely  negative 
through  protests  that  stalemate  our  energy  production. 
The  need  is  to  be  demanding  in  a  shrewd  way,  to  force  the 
bargains  that  will  move  us  through  to  a  transition  and  get 
us  into  a  new  era  of  energy. 

I  can  envision  a  meeting,  or  several  meetings,  of  en- 
vironmental groups  like  the  Conservation  Law  Founda- 
tion, of  consumer  groups  like  Mass.  Fair  Share,  and  of  the 
building  trades,  together  with  the  next  utility  company 
that  proposes  a  major  plant.  At  this  meeting,  the  public  in- 
terest groups  can  say  to  the  officials  of  that  company, 
"Look,  we  will  not  oppose  the  building  of  that  next  plant  if 
and  only  if  you  will  first  provide  hundreds  of  millions  of 
dollars  towards  solar,  towards  wind,  towards  those  ways  of 
providing  energy  and  heat  and  light  through  renewable 
natural  resources." 

That's  real  money.  That  would  represent  a  significant 
commitment  by  that  firm  toward  a  new  era  in  energy.  I 
think  that  thoughtful,  realistic,  sensible  utility  company 
executives  will  probably  welcome  that  bargain.  They  are 
genuinely  concerned  about  meeting  the  short-term  re- 
sponsibility for  power  supplies,  and  many  envision  with 
us  the  same  long-term  goal  of  reliance  on  renewable  re- 
sources for  energy  supplies. 

In  fact,  all  groups  benefit  from  that  kind  of  bargain. 
Certainly  consumer  bills  will  be  lower  because  the  utility 
did  not  incur  the  added  costs  of  construction  delays.  (And 
those  costs  will  be  there,  whether  beforehand  in  the  con- 
troversial "construction  works  in  progress"  charges  or  af- 
terwards.) Certainly  the  environmentalists  benefit.  The 
faster  we  move  toward  the  use  of  renewable  resources,  the 
more  our  environment  will  be  cleaned  and  better  served. 
And  labor,  in  addition  to  its  environmental  and  consumer 
concerns,  gets  jobs. 


opener,  the  toaster,  the  blender,  the  stereo,  the  television, 
the  hair  dryer,  work  on  instant  command.  But  what  if  the 
toaster  and  the  blender  and  the  hair  dryer  had  to  wait  sev- 
eral moments  until  the  load  on  the  entire  electric  generat- 
ing system  lightened  some?  And  so  what  if  we  had  a  brow- 
nout now  and  then?  Our  expectations  about  energy  have 
become  so  pristine  that  utility  companies  build  more  ca- 
pacity that  necessary  in  order  to  avoid,  at  any  cost,  a 
blackout  or  brownout. 

Utility  companies  could  get  more  innovative  in 
spreading  the  demand  for  electricity  over  24  hours  a  day. 
The  public  could  get  more  thoughtful  and  curtail  its 
wasteful  or  needless  use  of  energy.  All  of  us  could  con- 
serve even  more  on  real  needs  —  on  automobile  gas,  on 
home  heating,  on  lights.  But  again  this  is  going  to  take  the 
actions  that  we  need  at  the  grassroots  —  to  change  habits, 
to  change  fears  of  damnation  by  the  public  and  the  press 
if  a  brownout  or  a  blackout  occurs.  And  in  the  process  of 
changing  these  expectations,  there  are  enormous  oppor- 
tunities for  initiating  at  the  grassroots  level,  the  wide- 
spread use  of  solar  panels  for  heating,  of  wood  burning 
stoves,  and  so  forth. 

My  final  comment  about  actions  that  move  us  into  a 
new  age  of  energy,  has  to  do  with  leadership.  One  of  the 
most  infuriating  aspects  of  the  breakdown  of  the  Three 
Mile  Island  nuclear  power  plant  was  the  instant  defense 
of  pro-nuclear  forces  in  the  state,  the  federal  government, 
and  the  utility  company  that  ran  the  plant.  As  we  learned, 
the  plant's  operations  were  not  even  under  control  and  of- 
ficials were  still  talking  privately  about  evacuation.  Yet 
some  of  the  most  important  public  officials  of  this  nation 
and  this  state  were  reassuring  us  all,  with  unwavering 
conviction,  that  nuclear  power  is  safe.  The  leaders  of  pro- 
test against  nuclear  power  became  just  as  strident  in  their 
condemnation  of  nuclear  power.  That  kind  of  public  lead- 
ership is  irresponsible.  And  that  kind  of  private  response 
only  insures  extended  protests  that  do  not  advance  our 
energy  needs  at  all. 


THERE  IS  AN  ALMOST  DESPERATE  NEED  for 

sensible,  thoughtful,  realistic  leadership  right  now:  a  lead- 
ership that  can  be  openminded,  that  can  reevaluate  posi- 
tions previously  held;  a  leadership  that  can  attend  to  both 
the  short-term  energy  problems  and  the  transition  to  a  dif- 
ferent energy  age;  a  leadership  that  turns  energy  for  pro- 
test into  forces  for  progress.  Certainly  we  cannot  abandon 
the  nuclear  power  plants  that  operate  now.  But  the  addi- 
tional safeguards  that  will  be  required  in  the  aftermath  of 
Three  Mile  Island  have  probably  shifted  the  economics  of 
new  plant  construction  to  favor  coal  plants  in  the  imme- 
diate future. 


THE  SECOND  ELEMENT  is  changing  our  expecta- 
tions. We  expect  to  have  lights  turn  on  at  the  flip  of  a 
switch.  We  expect  to  have  air  conditioners  work  in 
sweltering  summer  heat.  We  expect  to  have  the  dish- 
washer, the  clothes  washer,  the  dryer,  the  electric  can- 


10/ The  WP1  Journal  /  Summer  1979 


So  rather  than  fight  old  battles  about  people's  health 
and  safety  in  coal  vs.  nuclear,  let  us  be  politically  and 
financially  realistic  and  look  to  coal  plants.  And  let  us  put 
our  energies  on  making  those  bargains  with  each  utility 
company  that  proposes  another  large  plant.  Let  us  get  on 
with  changing  expectations.  Let  us  get  on  with  energy 
conservation  and  with  increased  efficiency  in  our  existing 
operations.  That  will  get  us  moving  toward  an  age  of  en- 
ergy through  renewable  resources. 

And  let  us  recognize  that,  given  the  recent  tenor  of 
national  and  state  leadership,  getting  serious  about  the 
transition  to  an  era  of  energy  through  renewable  resources 
means  doing  it  ourselves. 


How  the  electric 
utilities  can  cope, 

by  Edward  Brown 


I'D  LIKE  TO  START  by  describing  our  company  and 
tell  you  where  the  utilities  have  been  over  the  last  few 
years.  New  England  Power  Service  Company  is  the  com- 
pany that  provides  engineering,  construction,  and  ad- 
ministrative services  for  New  England  Electric  System. 
Our  affiliated  companies  are  Massachusetts  Electric,  Nar- 
ragansett  Electric  in  Rhode  Island,  and  Granite  State  Elec- 
tric in  New  Hampshire. 

I'd  like  to  describe  some  of  the  projects  our  compa- 
nies have  been  involved  in  over  the  past  few  years,  proj- 
ects we  hope  will  help  develop  alternatives.  I'll  describe 
why  we're  involved  in  some  of  these  projects  and  how  we 
see  alternatives  fitting  into  the  electric  generation  picture. 

First  is  a  solar  water  heating  project.  We  have  100  test 
units  on  customer's  premises  throughout  New  England 
now  entering  their  third  year.  This  is  the  first  major  test 
program  of  this  size  and  scope  in  the  country.  We're  in- 
volved in  the  installation  of  a  photovoltaic  electric  system 
at  Beverly  High  School.  We're  participating  in  the  redevel- 
opment of  a  small,  low-head  hydro  station  in  Lawrence, 
Massachusetts.  This  is  not  a  utility  development.  This  is 
a  development  by  a  private  firm  called  Lawrence  Hydro 
Associates,  and  it  is  the  first  federally  licensed  urban  hy- 
droelectric development  project  in  the  country.  We're  in 
the  process  of  converting  three  units  from  oil  to  coal  at 
our  Brayton  Point  Station,  at  an  estimated  cost  of  over 
$100  million.  This  will  save  10  million  barrels  of  oil  per 
year. 

We're  involved  in  the  final  stages  of  modifying  one  of 
our  units  in  Salem  to  use  a  coal/oil  slurry  mixture  in  or- 
der to  reduce  dependence  on  oil.  This  is  the  first  use  in 
the  nation  of  a  coal/oil  mixture  for  electric  generation. 
We're  drilling  in  the  Gulf  of  Mexico  and  in  the  southwest- 
ern United  States  for  oil  and  gas  in  order  to  reduce  our  de- 
pendence on  imports.  Last  year  we  brought  in  and  used 
the  first  oil  that  we  drilled  and  found  ourselves. 

We're  developing  load-management  techniques  de- 
signed to  shift  peak  loads  and  smooth  out  the  growth  of 
peaks  so  as  to  reduce  demand  in  the  future  . . .  and  reduce 
the  new  construction  necessary  to  meet  these  demands. 
And  there  may  well  come  a  day  when  we  will  be  able  to 
control  water  heating  and  residential  heating.  We  may  not 


Summer  1979/  The  WPI  Journal/  1 1 


control  your  electric  blender  but  we  think  we  can  get  to 
the  point  of  controlling  significant  amounts  of  load.  We're 
doing  this  by  using  our  own  power  lines  to  send  signals 
out  and  get  signals  back  —  techniques  our  company  has 
patented.  Furthermore,  we're  exploring  very  seriously  the 
possibility  of  constructing  a  50,000  kilowatt  wood- 
burning  generating  plant  somewhere  in  northern  New  En- 
gland. 

We  are  active  participants  in  the  Block  Island  wind 
generator  project.  We  are  interested  in  exploring,  and  will 
get  involved  in  if  possible,  the  possibility  of  a  solid-waste 
generating  plant  using  trash. 

We're  in  the  midst  of  a  crisis  situation  today  which 
will  touch  the  lives  of  each  of  us  in  ways  that  we  can't 
now  even  imagine.  Our  standard  of  living,  the  way  we 
transport  ourselves,  our  industrial  output,  productivity,  ef- 
ficiency —  all  are  faced  with  shortages  of  energy.  I  can 
guarantee  that  these  shortages  will  occur.  We're  seeing  it 
today,  week  by  week,  in  attempting  to  obtain  oil  for  our 
oil  generating  plants.  They'll  persist,  and  they'll  get  worse 
unless  we  take  steps  to  shape  energy  policies  that  will  re- 
duce our  dependence  on  oil. 

Conservation  is  probably  the  least  expensive  and  the 
most  productive  alternative  that  we  have.  We  also  feel 
that  alternatives  such  as  wind,  solar,  wood,  biomass,  must 
be  developed.  We  feel  that  the  addition  of  base-load  plants 
(both  coal-  and  oil-fired)  are  necessary  although  we  would 
like  never  to  build  another  oil  plant.  We  feel  that  nuclear 
plants  are  necessary. 

Let  me  define  what  I  mean  by  base-load,  because  the 
alternative  picture  does  not  apply  to  base-load  electric 
generation.  In  a  typical  day,  a  load  curve  would  start  low 
at  midnight,  increase  in  the  morning,  decrease  around 
noon  time,  come  back  up  in  midafternoon  to  a  peak,  and 
then  drop  back  down  during  the  evening  to  the  level  it 
reaches  at  midnight.  Now,  base-load  plants  must  supply 
this  minimum  level.  Peak  load  plants  must  supply  part  of 
the  daytime  highs.  And  intermediate  types  of  plants, 
those  that  can  cycle  up  and  down  easily  must  supply  the 
remainder  of  the  demand.  So  when  I  talk  about  a  base-load 
plant,  I'm  talking  about  a  plant  that  must  be  on  line  24 
hours  a  day,  seven  days  a  week,  month  in  and  month  out. 


Edward  Brown  is  president  of  the  New  England  Power  Ser- 
vice Company  in  Westboro,  Massachusetts.  A  professional 
engineer,  he's  been  with  New  England  Electric  System 
since  1956,  holding  various  engineering  and  administra- 
tive positions,  including  director  of  management  sciences, 
project  manager  for  the  Bear  Swamp  pump  storage  hy- 
droelectric project,  and  vice  president  for  construction  and 
major  projects.  The  New  England  Power  Service  Company 
is  heavily  engaged  in  a  number  of  research  and  develop- 
ment projects  on  various  alternative  energy  sources.  Con- 
sequently, as  president  of  New  England  Power  Service 
Company,  Mr.  Brown  is  in  an  excellent  position  to  com- 
ment on  the  transition  to  renewable  sources  from  the  elec- 
tric utility's  standpoint. 


In  shaping  our  national  policy,  we  have  to  come  to 
grips  with  three  almost  irrefutable  facts.  First,  the  days  of 
abundant,  low-cost  energy  are  gone.  Every  alternative  will 
be  more  costly  in  the  future;  some  will  be  more  practical 
than  others.  Second,  the  United  States'  continued  depen- 
dence on  OPEC,  the  Organization  of  Petroleum  Exporting 
Countries,  has  become  a  no-win  situation.  In  1973,  the  oil 
embargo  year,  we  imported  35  percent  of  our  oil.  Today 
we're  importing  45  percent  of  our  oil,  at  costs  five  times 
what  they  were  in  1973.  We're  vulnerable  to  cartel  price 
hikes  and  supply  interruptions.  Third,  when  it  comes  to 
base-load  electric  power  generation,  I  see  only  three  op- 
tions —  coal,  nuclear,  or  shortages.  Alternatives  simply 
cannot  fit  into  the  picture  on  base-load  plants.  They  can 
be  fuel  savers  in  the  intermediate  range  and  they  can  fit 
in  on  peak. 

Coal  has  its  own  problems  and  will  do  well  to  carry 
the  burden  that's  been  placed  on  it.  Nuclear  energy,  even 
with  the  present  situation,  is  an  imperative.  The  Three 
Mile  Island  incident  is  of  great  concern  to  us  and  to  the 
industry.  I  can  only  hope  that  there's  no  rush  to  judgment 
as  a  result  of  Three  Mile  Island  and  that  the  industry  and 
the  regulatory  bodies  complete  their  assessment  and  eval- 
uation as  fast  and  as  competently  as  they  can.  We  can 
learn  from  this  event,  and  we  will  implement  whatever 
comes  out  in  forms  of  new  procedures,  revised  equipment, 
or  safeguards.  Based  upon  what  we  know  about  the  se- 
quence of  events  at  Three  Mile  Island,  we've  already  insti- 
tuted a  review  of  all  nuclear  plants  in  New  England  in  or- 
der to  make  certain  that  similar  circumstances  cannot 
and  will  not  happen  here. 

The  remainder  of  my  remarks  will  center  on  the  New 
England  energy  situation  and  the  alternatives  for  the  fu- 
ture. Much  of  my  data  is  derived  from  a  study  by  the  New 
England  Energy  Congress.  The  New  England  Congress  was 
a  group  of  1 20  people  of  varied  background  from  industry, 
academia,  the  trade  unions,  social  agencies,  environmental 
groups,  etc.,  brought  together  under  the  auspices  of  New 
England  Congressional  Caucus  and  Tufts  University. 


NEW  ENGLAND  DEPENDS  UPON  OIL  for  about 
80  percent  of  its  total  energy  requirements,  compared  to 
about  50  percent  in  the  United  States  as  a  whole.  We're 
extremely  vulnerable  to  interruptions  in  supply  in  New 
England,  and  to  price  hikes,  and  we're  seeing  that  almost 
week  by  week  now.  In  terms  of  energy  consumption,  there 
isn't  much  difference  between  the  United  States  as  a 
whole  and  New  England  in  terms  of  where  this  energy  is 
used.  Residential  use  accounts  for  about  26  percent  in 
New  England  vs.  14  percent  nationwide.  (That's  under- 
standable because  of  weather  extremes  in  New  England.) 
Transportation  is  about  25  percent  vs.  23  percent;  utilities 
use  24  percent  vs.  26  percent.  So  as  far  as  the  distribution 
of  energy  resources  and  where  it  goes,  there's  a  not  great 
deal  of  difference  between  the  United  States  and  New 
England. 


12 /The  W 'PI  journal / Summer  1979 


The  New  England  Energy  Congress,  in  making  a  pro- 
jection, assumed  that  the  growth  in  total  energy  in  New 
England  by  the  year  2000,  would  be  about  1.5  percent  per 
year.  (Just  to  put  this  in  perspective,  the  nationwide 
growth  have  been  in  the  range  of  3  to  4  percent  histori- 
cally.) Putting  everything  in  terms  of  millions  of  barrels  of 
oil  per  day  this  means  that  whereas  we're  using  about  a 
million  and  a  half  barrels  per  day  in  New  England  now,  by 
the  year  2000,  they  say  it  should  be  slightly  over  2  million 
barrels  per  day.  If  it  grew  at  2.5  percent,  which  I  think  is  a 
reasonable  assumption,  it  would  be  2.6  million  barrels  per 
day.  The  difference  between  these  two  figures,  the  group 
says,  will  have  to  come  about  through  conservation.  But 
even  so,  we  will  use  about  40  percent  more  than  we  do  to- 
day. 

Where  will  it  come  from?  Today,  in  terms  of  natural 
gas,  coal  and  nuclear,  we're  using  the  equivalent  of 
300,000  barrels  per  day.  The  forecast  presented  by  this 
group  assumes  that,  by  the  year  2000,  this  will  about  dou- 
ble to  almost  600,000  barrels  per  day.  This  group  assumed 
that  actual  usage  of  petroleum  products  in  New  England 
would  decrease  from  1.2  million  barrels  per  day  to  about  1 
million,  so  in  the  year  2000  oil  will  account  for  about  50 
percent  of  the  total,  which  is  where  the  national  average 
is  today.  The  remainder,  this  group  says,  would  be  made 
up  of  alternatives.  The  alternatives,  they  project,  will  ac- 
count for  about  500,000  barrels  per  day  equivalent.  That  is 
about  equal  to  the  projection  on  nuclear,  coal,  and  natural 
gas  in  the  year  2000.  Furthermore,  this  is  based  on  the  as- 
sumption of  1.5  percent  growth,  which  we  have  not 
achieved  over  the  last  two  years. 

If  we  do  not,  through  conservation,  keep  the  growth 
at  1.5  percent,  and  if  the  alternatives  do  not  develop  to 
the  extent  projected  here,  then  we  have  to  fall  back  on 
something  else.  And  that  must  be  either  oil  or  coal  or  nu- 
clear. If  growth  is  not  kept  down  to  1.5  percent,  then  that 
lack  of  conservation  will  have  to  be  made  up  through  oil 
or  nuclear  or  coal.  This  is  the  thesis  I  wish  to  pursue. 

Growth  must  be  suppressed  through  conservation 
and  alternatives  must  be  encouraged  to  develop.  Where 
do  the  alternatives  come  from?  The  New  England  Energy 
Congress  sees  the  doubling  of  hydroelectric  by  the  year 
2000.  They  see  a  10  percent  increase  in  wood-burning 
every  year  between  now  and  the  year  2000.  They  see  25 
percent  of  all  new  homes  from  now  to  1985,  and  50  per- 
cent thereafter,  fitted  with  1000  square  feet  of  solar  collec- 
tors. They  see  one-half  of  existing  housing  units  retrofit- 
ted with  solar  water  heaters. 

In  terms  of  electric  base-load  generation  through  al- 
ternatives, my  company  sees  alternative  potential  in  only 
three  areas.  First,  wood  —  we  see  the  equivalent  of  900  to 
1200  megawatts  of  electric  capacity.  How  big  is  that?  One 
of  the  Seabrook  units  is  1 150  megawatts.  Solid  waste  - 
we  see  the  potential  for  300-500  megawatts.  Hydro  --we 
see  an  additional  potential  for  400-450  megawatts.  All  of 
these  are  much  more  costly  than  coal  or  nuclear  alterna- 
tives. These  numbers  that  I'm  quoting  are  much  less  than 
half  of  those  shown  in  the  New  England  Energy  Congress 
report. 


WE'RE  KEENLY  AWARE  that  it  takes  12  to  14  years, 
under  today's  environment,  to  plan,  design  and  build  a 
coal-fired  or  a  nuclear  generating  plant.  This  means  that  if 
a  plant  is  going  to  be  needed  in  1 992  or  1 993,  then  we 
have  to  start  planning  for  it  today.  So  let's  keep  our  op- 
tions open.  Let's  go  ahead  and  push  for  the  alternatives, 
develop  wind,  develop  solar,  develop  wood.  But  let's  not 
close  our  options  today.  In  some  quarters,  the  prevailing 
belief  is  that  the  development  of  alternative  energy  sour- 
ces is  somehow  in  competition  with  the  electric  utilities 
(or  that  we  think  it's  in  competition  with  us).  That's  not 
true.  We  recognize  the  need  to  develop  these  alternatives, 
particularly  our  own  New  England  native  energy  alterna- 
tives through  renewable  resources.  We  see  these  alterna- 
tives not  as  a  threat  but  as  a  challenge  and  an  opportunity 
to  do  something  about  a  terrible  situation. 

In  closing  I'd  like  to  address  one  remark  Dr.  Murphy 
made.  She  suggested  that  it  might  be  to  everyone's  oppor- 
tunity and  advantage  if,  for  the  next  major  plant,  utility 
companies  could  sit  down  with  the  environmental  groups, 
the  social  groups,  the  regulatory  groups,  etc.,  and  make  a 
commitment  with  these  interest  groups.  I  would  agree  to 
making  such  a  commitment  on  the  basis  that  the  con- 
struction and  operating  license  for  a  plant  would  not  be 
held  up.  We  would  agree  to  make  a  commitment  in  terms 
of  millions  of  dollars  for  research  and  development  in  al- 
ternative sources.  And  I'll  put  that  in  writing. 


Summer  1979 /The  WPl  Journal/  13 


Developing  and 
marketing  a  new 
technology. 

by  Robert  Mitchell 


THE  NORTHEAST  SOLAR  ENERGY  CENTER  is 

a  new,  not-for-profit  company.  We  are  the  agents  of  the 
Department  of  Energy  to  accelerate  the  commercialization 
of  solar  technology  in  the  northeast  (New  England,  New 
York,  New  Jersey,  and  Pennsylvania).  When  we  say  solar, 
we're  talking  about  the  renewable  energy  resources  that 
both  Ms.  Murphy  and  Mr.  Brown  talked  about.  We  started 
out  with  the  responsibility  for  domestic  solar  hot-water 
systems,  passive  solar  heating  in  residences,  and  what 
have  you.  More  recently  the  Department  of  Energy  has 
added  active  solar  space  heating,  small  wind  (below  200 
kilowatts),  and  woody  biomass.  And  there  is  agricultural 
process  heat  and  industrial  process  heat. 

Two  things  are  very  important  to  anyone  who  is  con- 
sidering solar  and  indeed  domestic  solar  hot  water  heating 
-  the  recently  passed  National  Energy  Act,  and  the  tax 
credit  and  HUD  grants  that  are  available  in  states  like 
Massachusetts.  We  like  to  talk  about  a  40  percent  "dis- 
count" on  solar  hot  water,  that's  made  up  of  two  elements. 
The  average  price  for  an  installed  hot  water  system  is 
about  $2,500.  The  HUD  grant,  for  those  systems  that 
qualify  (and  most  do),  is  $400;  the  federal  tax  credit 
amounts  to  an  additional  $620;  and  so  the  cost  to  the  con- 
sumer is  $1000  off  the  $2,500.  This  makes  the  domestic 
solar  hot  water  system,  at  today's  energy  prices  (particu- 
larly electric  and  heating  oil  prices  in  most  of  the  areas  of 
New  England),  quite  viable.  Some  states  in  New  England 
have  additional  tax  credits.  Vermont,  for  instance,  has  a 
tax  credit  that  will  reduce  the  cost  to  the  consumer  to 
something  like  $800.  With  an  opportunity  like  that,  in- 
deed there  is  every  incentive  to  go  the  solar  route.  The 
technology  is  here,  and  the  governments,  federal  and  state, 
are  providing  the  cash  flow  improvers  that  are  so  neces- 
sary. 


STARTING  AT  THE  TURN  OF  THE  CENTURY, 

our  demands  for  energy  in  the  United  States  were  pretty 
straightforward  and  relatively  low.  And  then,  in  the  late 
1 930s,  we  became  the  arsenal  of  democracy.  Our  demands 
for  energy  grew  exponentially.  Of  significance  here  is  the 


way  coal  use  fell  off  since  1920;  from  the  1930s  on,  our  ex- 
traction and  use  of  coal  in  the  United  States  has  remained 
pretty  much  at  a  level. 

So  our  growth  in  energy  demand  has  been  satisfied 
primarily  by  the  use  of  liquid  petroleum.  It  happens  that 
domestic  petroleum  picked  up  most  of  that  growth.  How- 
ever, in  the  late  1960s  that  also  leveled  off.  We  started  to 
use  more  imported  petroleum.  Of  course  we  still  had  do- 
mestic natural  gas.  The  input  of  imported  natural  gas, 
geohydro,  and  nuclear  energy  were  relatively  insignificant. 

Let's  look  just  at  petroleum  itself.  Up  until  the  middle 
1940s,  the  United  States  was  a  net  exporter  of  petroleum. 
That  shifted,  and  we  started  to  import  a  little  bit;  but  we 
did  not  quite  concern  ourselves,  because  our  production 
continued  to  grow.  And  when  production  from  our  own 
wells  leveled  off  somewhat,  importation  of  oil  continued 
to  grow.  But  we  still  didn't  worry,  because  our  finds  of  do- 
mestic oil,  our  proven  reserves,  grew  as  our  production 
grew. 

But  then  in  the  late  1960s  things  changed.  We  started 
to  draw  down  our  proven  reserves  faster  than  we  were 
finding  new  ones.  At  that  same  time  our  demand  for  oil 
continued  to  grow,  and  we  relied  more  and  more  heavily 
on  the  foreign  market. 

By  1973  we  were  importing  a  considerable  quantity  of 
oil,  something  like  37  percent.  So  our  proven  reserves  fell 
off,  our  production  fell  off,  and  even  during  this  period  of 
national  recession  (1974-75),  we  imported  more  oil,  both 
volumetrically  and  as  a  percentage.  Our  oil  use  continues 
to  go  up.  Our  production  continues  to  go  down,  except  for 
Alaska.  Next  year,  when  we  have  the  statistics,  you'll  see  a 
little  blip  in  the  charts  for  Alaska,  but  the  proven  reserves 
continue  to  go  down,  as  does  production.  It's  a  very  dismal 
picture 

As  we  look  at  sources  for  this  oil,  the  picture  be- 
comes even  worse.  Our  imports  in  1973  were  35  percent; 
in  1976,  43  percent.  The  current  level  is  almost  50  per- 
cent. This  is  especially  significant  because  we  used  about 
the  same  amount  of  petroleum  in  1976  as  in  1973.  So  we 
had  to  import  more.  Let's  find  out  source  of  this  supply. 
From  1973  to  1976,  Venezuela  and  Canada,  our  friends  to 
the  south  and  to  the  north,  greatly  reduced  their  exports 
to  the  United  States.  In  fact,  Canada's  stated  policy  is  that 
by  mid- 1980  they  will  be  exporting  a  net  of  no  petroleum 
to  the  United  States.  Venezuela  has  deliberately  cut  back 
its  own  production. 

So  we  had  to  make  up  both  the  increased  quantity  of 
imports  and  the  shortfall  in  imports  from  Venezuela  and 
Canada.  This  was  made  up  by  increases  from  Libya,  Iran, 
Algeria,  Indonesia,  Saudi  Arabia,  and  Nigeria.  So  our  en- 
ergy crisis  is  really  an  oil  crisis,  and  the  actions  that  we 
must  take  should  be  directed  toward  reducing  our  depen- 
dence, or  at  least  controlling  our  dependence,  upon  foreign 
sources. 

In  New  England,  80  percent  of  the  energy  we  use  is 
satisfied  by  oil,  and  79  percent  of  that  comes  from  im- 
ports, either  indirectly  through  refineries  outside  New  En- 
gland or  directly  through  product  import.  The  biggest  ele- 


14 /The  WPl  Journal / Summer  1979 


ment  in  this  import  is  residual  oil,  which  is  used  to  gener- 
ate over  half  of  our  electricity  and  to  drive  industry.  Some 
92  percent  of  that  oil  which  generates  electricity  comes 
from  foreign  sources.  So  our  cost  of  electricity  in  New  En- 
gland is  extremely  sensitive  to  the  oil  that  we  get  from 
the  world  market. 

Our  problem  in  the  United  States  is  basically  twofold. 
We  use  too  much  of  what  we  have  the  least  of,  and  we  use 
too  little  of  what  we  have  the  most  of.  If  we  look  just  at 
fossil  fuels,  we'll  see  that  coal  represents  over  90  percent 
of  the  proven  reserves  of  fossil  fuels;  and  yet  we  use  coal 
to  satisfy  only  18  percent  of  energy  demands.  Oil  and  nat- 
ural gas  represent  less  than  10  percent  of  our  proven  fossil 
fuel  reserves;  and  yet  we  use  those  two  in  combination  to 
satisfy  over  three-fourths  of  our  energy  demands.  This  is 
why  we  have  the  problem. 

New  England's  problem  is  more  severe  than  the 
United  States'  problem.  We  rely  upon  petroleum  to  satisfy 
80  percent  of  our  energy  demand,  plus  another  8  percent 
from  natural  gas,  which  brings  our  total  up  to  88  percent, 
against  a  national  average  of  around  75  percent,  made  up 
from  about  50  percent  oil  and  the  rest  natural  gas.  That 
natural  gas  in  the  United  States  is  used  primarily  to  gener- 
ate electricity  and  to  power  industry.  In  the  national  en- 
ergy act,  these  uses  of  natural  gas  will  be  eliminated  by 
the  year  1990. 

Of  significance  also  to  the  New  England  region  is  our 
mix  in  the  generation  of  electricity.  In  1976  about  57  per- 
cent of  our  electricity  was  generated  from  oil  —  and  oil  is 
the  most  expensive  energy  available  to  us  for  that  pur- 
pose. The  figure  for  the  whole  United  States  is  only  16 
percent.  The  United  States  uses  a  lot  of  coal,  and  this  is 
going  to  grow  and  grow.  Over  one-third  of  the  electricity 
generated  and  consumed  in  New  England  comes  from  nu- 
clear power.  The  cost  of  that  nuclear  power  at  the  distri- 
bution point  is  just  a  little  more  than  half  the  cost  of  the 
electricity  generated  from  oil.  So  when  we're  looking  at  al- 
ternatives and  actions,  we  must  look  very  carefully  at  the 
cost  impact  of  those  actions  when  we  compare  the  United 
States  and  New  England.  We  use  very  little  coal  here,  so 


Mr.  Robert  Mitchell  is  manager  of  the  communications 
division  of  the  Northeast  Solar  Energy  Center.  Mr. 
Mitchell's  responsibilities  at  the  Solar  Energy  Center  in- 
clude coordinating  all  programs  and  projects  in  the  north- 
east region  for  public  information,  solar  education,  solar 
information  service,  and  the  technical  information  library. 
Prior  to  joining  the  Solar  Energy  Center,  Mr.  Mitchell 
served  for  four  years  as  the  New  England  Regional  Ad- 
ministrator of  the  Federal  Energy  Administration.  Before 
that  he  was  energy  advisor  to  the  governor  of  New 
Hampshire  and  chairman  of  the  New  England  Energy  Task 
Force.  The  Task  Force  was  organized  in  1975  and  com- 
posed of  federal,  state,  and  private  sector  officials.  Its  pur- 
pose was  to  assist  in  improving  New  England's  poor  en- 
ergy posture  and  to  aid  in  the  planning,  programming,  and 
implementing  of  actions  designed  to  accomplish  regional 
energy  goals.  Mr.  Mitchell  was  also  the  chairman  of  the 
New  England  Federal  Regional  Council  from  1976  to  1977. 


we  have  no  real  basis  for  cost  comparisons.  But  natural 
gas  in  New  England  costs  us  twice  as  much  as  the  average 
national  cost  per  unit.  That  is  because  we're  at  the  end  of 
the  pipeline,  and  also  because  we  inject  a  lot  of  synthetics 
into  our  gas  system. 

Petroleum  costs  us  about  as  much  as  it  does  the  rest 
of  the  United  States.  Because  of  the  amount  of  electricity 
we  generate  from  oil  and  the  high  cost  of  that  oil,  electric- 
ity costs  us  about  45  percent  more  than  the  national  aver- 
age. As  a  result,  our  total  energy  bill  for  a  given  unit  size 
is  about  23  percent  higher  than  the  United  States  average. 


WE  MUST  DO  THINGS  DELIBERATELY  in  order 
to  correct  this  situation.  We  cannot  merely  snap  our  fin- 
gers. There  are  a  number  of  alternatives.  The  first  is  con- 
servation. For  a  report  prepared  in  1975,  the  six  states  of 
New  England  worked  together  with  their  planning  offices, 
their  environmental  offices,  their  energy  offices;  worked 
with  industry,  with  the  utilities,  and  with  the  federal  en- 
ergy administration;  all  working  together  with  the  New 
England  Regional  Commission  acting  as  the  secretariat. 
Each  state  identified  actions  that  it  could  take.  These 
were  carefully  examined  and  adjusted  to  ensure  they  were 
realistic,  not  overstatements  and  not  understatements. 
The  overall  effect  of  these  various  feasible  actions  was 
that,  by  1985,  conservation  —  improved  energy  manage 
ment  without  deprivation  —  could  save  New  England 
consumers  almost  100,000  million  barrels  of  oil  a  year. 

The  second  option  is  alternate  energy  sources.  We  see 
40,000  million  barrels  here.  A  good  portion  of  that  could 
be  use  of  wood,  hydro,  reclamation  of  solid  wastes,  and  in- 
deed direct  solar.  Direct  solar  looks  very  small  in  the  total 
picture,  but  it's  significant.  It's  the  equivalent  of  solar  re- 
trofit in  200,000  homes  in  New  England,  and  there  are 
now  less  than  2,000  homes  retrofitted  with  solar.  This 
alone  represents  1.5  million  barrels.  What  we  had  hoped 
was  that,  during  this  short  time  period,  we  would  have  the 
200,000  homes,  but  by  the  end  of  this  period  the  rate  of 
growth  would  be  phenomenal.  By  the  year  2000  we  could 
have  12  or  15  percent  input  by  solar.  But  we've  got  to  take 
that  first  real  step.  We  haven't  done  it  yet.  There  is  not  a 
total  commitment.  We  probably  will  accomplish  50  per- 
cent of  these  projections. 

We  look  at  high  coal  usage,  and  about  40  percent  of 
this  will  be  accomplished,  thanks  to  Dr.  Murphy  and  to 
New  England  Electric  too.  Six  nuclear  plants  could  have 
been  brought  on  stream  by  1985  in  addition  to  the  seven 
that  we  have  now.  But,  the  way  things  are  going,  I  doubt 
we'll  have  more  than  one,  maybe  not  even  that,  on  line  by 
1985. 

The  outlook  for  Massachusetts  is  not  a  good  one  for 
controlling  and  reducing  use  of  petroleum.  And,  I  repeat, 
our  energy  crisis  is  an  oil  crisis.  We  are  too  dependent 
upon  the  Arab  OPEC  nations.  We  do  not  have  the  luxury 
of  selecting  options  at  this  point.  We  have  got  to  work  on 
every  front.  Not  only  must  we  develop  the  alternative  en- 
ergy sources  oroperly,  bringing  them  into  play,  including 
conservation;  we  must  also  enhance  our  current  electrical 
generating  capabilities  by  increased  coal  use. 

.Summer  1979 /The  WP1  Journal/  15 


Questions  and 
some  answers. 


QUESTION:  Ms.  Murphy,  have  you 
talked  with  the  Clamshell  Alliance 
about  your  proposal?  They  seem  to 
have  more  access  to  making  things 
public  than  Mr.  Brown  does.  I  wasn't 
aware  of  almost  everything  Mr. 
Brown  said. 

MS.  MURPHY:  I'm  not  sure  Mr.  Brown  and  I  are  to- 
gether on  it  yet.  My  proposal  was  hundreds  of  millions  of 
dollars;  his  statement  was  millions.  I'm  not  putting  that  in 
an  antagonistic  way  but  I  don't  think  it's  going  to  be  just  a 
happy  little  fest  of  all  sitting  down  together.  I  think  the 
public  interest  groups  really  have  to  push  on  a  company 
like  New  England  Power.  It  is  exploring  some  alternatives 
already.  It  has  the  potential  and  the  feasibility  for  doing 
them.  It  is  probably  one  of  the  most  progressive  utility 
companies  in  New  England  right  now,  and  it's  headed  in 
the  way  we  want,  but  the  real  issue  for  us  is  to  push  much 
harder,  to  get  there  faster  with  more  money  behind  the  ef- 
fort. I  haven't  talked  with  the  Clamshell  Alliance  about 
this.  I'm  still  waiting  to  make  sure  that  indeed  the  hun- 
dreds of  millions  of  dollars  might  be  behind  it,  not  just  the 
millions. 


QUESTION:  In  pursuing  that  ques- 
tion a  little  bit,  isn't  there  a  problem 
here  with  respect  to  the  responsibil- 
ity of  the  utilities  to  provide  energy 
at  the  least  possible  cost  and  their  lia- 
bility if  they  don't  do  that?  Isn't  some 
kind  of  restructuring  needed  here  to 
allow  them  to  make  that  kind  of  a 
deal,  even  though  it's  going  to  cost  us 
more,  at  least  temporarily,  as  their 
customers? 


16 /The  WP1  journal / Summer  1919 


MR.  BROWN:  That's  why  I  said  millions  and  not  hun- 
dreds of  millions.  Let  me  just  put  our  company  in  perspec- 
tive. Our  total  revenues  are  around  $800  million  a  year, 
over  all  of  New  England.  Our  budget  for  all  research  and 
development  is  currently  around  $4  to  4.5  million  per 
year;  and  that's  the  budget  as  approved  by  the  Federal 
Power  Commission.  I'm  not  free  to  make  a  commitment 
in  excess  of  what  we  have  already  received  approval  for. 
However,  we  do  have  discretion  over  where  that  money 
goes.  When  we  talk  about  hundreds  of  millions  of  dollars, 
I  feel  there's  clearly  a  role  for  the  federal  government  here. 
The  company  can't  put  a  hundred  million  dollars  a  year, 
or  even  a  hundred  million  dollars  a  decade,  into  this  un- 
less there  is  some  restructuring. 

MS.  MURPHY:  I  want  to  pick  up  on  that  for  a  minute. 
In  the  process  of  trying  to  think  this  through  for  today 
one  of  the  things  that  became  clear  to  me  was  that,  when 
we  talk  about  energy,  we  have  to  listen  to  two  different  di- 
alogues going  on  at  the  same  time.  One  is  the  dialogue 
about  the  energy  problems  and  crises  right  now  —  oil  de- 
pendence and  all  that.  The  other  one  is  about  the  future. 
When  we  talk  of  $800  million  of  operating  revenues,  and 
then  think  about  $4  million  of  R&D  money  going  toward 
new  things,  we  see  clearly  the  mismatch,  the  imbalance 
between  the  two.  Even  in  the  dialogue  here  today,  we 
come  back  to  talk  mostly  about  oil,  mostly  about  the  ex- 
isting situation.  Our  current  vulnerability  drives  so  much 
of  the  public  and  federal  attention  to  the  existing  situa- 
tion. But  there's  nowhere  near  a  balance,  nowhere  near  the 
same  kind  of  time,  much  less  money,  being  put  into  the 
necessary  shift  toward  the  future.  And  that's  why  I  think 
the  transition,  if  we're  going  to  make  it,  has  got  to  be 
pushed  in  a  much  harder  way.  It  may  be  that  we  need  a 
different  legal  structure  for  doing  it,  but  I  still  think  the 
utility  companies  must  play  an  absolutely  essential  role 
in  effecting  that  transition.  They  have  the  money  to  do  it 
if  we  can  provide  some  means  for  making  those  substan- 
tial financial  readjustments  now. 

MR.  BROWN:  I'd  like  to  respond  by  saying  we  don't 
make  money  just  for  the  sake  of  making  money.  Every- 
thing is  based  upon  a  cost  of  service  and  is  based  upon  an 
approved  rate  structure.  We  can't  make  money  out  of  thir 
air.  It  has  to  come  from  some  place  —  either  from  inves- 
tors putting  money  into  the  business  or  from  customers 
paying  for  electricity  received.  I  just  want  to  be  sure  ev- 
eryone understands  we  can't  print  money. 


PROF.  DOUGLAS  WOODS  (So 

cial  Science  &  Policy  Studies):  Mr. 
Brown,  my  conception  of  the  regula- 
tory process  is  that  you'd  have  to  get 
approval  from  the  Public  Utility 
Commission  in  this  state  to  include, 
for  instance,  a  massive  increase  in 
your  research  budget  among  those 
operating  expenses  that  are  taken 
into  account  in  establishing  rates.  Is 
that  correct? 


. 


And  if  so,  what  is  your  expectation 
about  their  likely  attitude  toward  a 
request  for,  say,  $100  million  in  re- 
search funds? 

MR.  BROWN:  I'm  glad  you  raised  that  question  because 
a  distinction  has  to  be  made  between  state  regulatory  bo- 
dies and  the  federal  regulatory  bodies.  New  England  Power 
Company  is  regulated  by  the  Federal  Power  Commission 
and  I  think  they'd  be  much  more  amenable  to  a  heavier  re- 
search and  development  program  than  a  state  regulatory 
body.  Whether  we  like  it  or  not,  a  state  regulatory  body  is 
more  politicized  than  the  federal.  They're  closer  to  the 
consumers;  they  get  more  pressure  from  the  consumers. 
But,  because  we  operate  in  more  than  one  state,  we  are  re- 
gulated by  the  Federal  Power  Commission;  our  retail  com- 
panies are  regulated  by  the  state  commissions.  I  think  the 
federal  commission  would  be  much  more  agreeable. 


QUESTION:  It  seems  to  me  another 
route  for  making  transition,  besides 
this  bargaining  pressure,  is  to  create 
incentives  for  the  utility.  Is  the  util- 
ity at  the  present  time  very  favorably 
disposed  to  load  management  and 
other  conservation  technologies?  If 
so,  what  does  it  consider  its  financial 
incentive?  If  not,  what  would  you 
need,  what  kinds  of  financial  incen- 
tives, to  take  an  interest  in  conserva- 
tion? 

MR.  BROWN:  One  kilowatt  of  new  capacity  today 
costs  around  $1,000.  One  kilowatt  out  of  a  peak  of  3  mil- 
lion kilowatts.  If  we  can  avoid  having  this  peak  demand 
increase,  or  we  can  reduce  this  peak,  then  we  save  an  in- 
vestment of  $  1,000  for  every  kilowatt.  Now  that's  one 
whale  of  an  incentive. 


QUESTION:  Ms.  Murphy  said  that, 
because  of  the  inaction  of  the  federal 
and  state  government  organizations 
in  effecting  the  transition,  we  really 
have  to  do  it  ourselves.  To  me  this 
means  letting  the  private  sector  do  it, 
and  I  agree.  I  think  we  have  to  do  it 
ourselves.  My  question  involves  the 
problem  of  how  we  do  it  ourselves 
when,  in  fact,  the  federal  and  state 
governments  collect  our  money  and 
create  the  policies  and  the  tax  incen- 
tives and  the  subsidies  involved  in 
this  whole  issue?  How  do  we  do  it 
ourselves  when  they  have  so  much 
control  and  can  really  stop  us  from 
doing  it? 

MS.  MURPHY:  I  think  two  things  have  to  happen.  I  be- 
lieve there  can  be  the  kind  of  public  pressure,  public  inter- 
est group  pressure  on  utility  companies  to  make  that  tran- 
sition happen  faster.  I  also  think,  in  doing  it  ourselves, 
that  the  general  public  and  even  some  of  the  industries 
have  to  go  back  to  the  state  and  the  federal  governments 
and  tell  them  that  they've  got  to  get  more  serious  about 
this.  Because  when  a  coalition  of  utility  companies  and 
consumer  interest  groups  and  environmentalists  can  walk 
into  the  state  or  federal  government  and  say,  "we've  got  to 
have  some  changes  here,"  then  things  will  start  to  happen. 
But  it'll  take  a  fair  amount  of  organizing.  We've  lost  a  lot 
of  years,  and  the  federal  government  continues  to  invest 
heavily  in  the  existing  system.  It's  going  to  continue  in 
that  direction  unless  coalitions  of  public  interest  groups 
and  the  utility  industries  can  get  together  and  face  gov- 
ernment. Then  we  may  have  a  very  powerful  political 
force.  I  can't  see  any  other  way. 


QUESTION:  Why  is  that  an  incen- 
tive? Don't  you  recover  that  invest- 
ment from  the  rate  base? 

MR.  BROWN:  I  wish  we  did. 


QUESTION:  What  happens?  Could 
you  describe  what  actually  happens? 

MR.  BROWN:  It's  more  and  more  difficult  to  raise 
money  on  the  open  stock  market.  Look  at  our  stock.  Peo- 
ple think  we're  really  making  a  killing.  And  yet,  if  we  have 
to  raise  money  in  the  market  today  to  provide  that  addi- 
tional kilowatt,  we  have  to  sell  our  stock  below  book 
value.  That's  a  real  incentive  to  conserve. 


PROF.  WOODS:  Let  me  phrase  the 
question  a  little  differently.  Do  you 
expect  that  your  stock  will  continue 
to  sell  below  book  for  the  indefinite 
future,  that  you're  always  going  to 
have  trouble  getting  a  decent  rate  of 
return  on  funds  invested  in  new 
plants,  that  you'll  never  want  to  re- 
turn to  the  days  when  utilities  were 
always  anxious  to  expand  their  rate 
base? 

MR.  BROWN:  I'd  like  to  see  our  stock  selling  above 
book,  because  that  benefits  everyone,  not  just  our  inves- 
tors but  our  customers  as  well.  That's  a  fact.  Do  I  think  I'll 
see  the  day  when  it  will  sell  above  book?  Yes.  We're  recov- 
ering from  a  series  of  crises,  not  of  our  own  making  and  I 
think  it  will  sell  above  book.  But  when  it  gets  above  book, 
will  we  want  to  go  back  to  build,  build,  build?  No.  Because 
regulatory  commissions  today  are  not  permitting  a  return 
that's  adequate  on  this  costly  plant  so  I  don't  see  us  going 
back  to  a  go-go  mode  and  doing  a  lot  more  building. 


QUESTION:  If  you  had  very  strong 
conservation,  do  you  think  the  effect 
would  be  good  for  the  company 
financially? 

MR.  BROWN:  Yes.  And  that's  an  interesting  point. 
Right  now  we  have  a  38  percent  capacity  reserve.  This  is 
used  to  criticize  us.  The  reason  for  that  reserve  is  that,  in 
1973  and  1974,  we  had  four  large  units  come  into  service 
in  anticipation  of  continuing  growth.  Well,  the  growth 
didn't  continue;  it  dropped  off.  So  we  have  a  38  percent  re- 
serve capacity.  If  we  grew  at  4  or  5  percent  a  year,  that  re- 
serve would  only  last  us  5  years  and  we'd  have  to  go  right 
back  into  raising  money  again.  I'd  like  to  see  conservation 
take  hold  so  that  capacity  will  last  us  ten  years  . . .  and  by 
that  time  I  might  be  ready  to  retire.  That's  as  good  a  rea- 
son as  I  can  think  of. 


QUESTION:  Mr.  Brown,  could  you 
tell  me  where  spent  fuel  for  the  nu- 
clear power  plants  goes,  and  what  is 
your  corporate  responsibility  for  that 
fuel? 

MR.  BROWN:  Right  now  it's  being  stored  at  the  site. 
There  are  no  reprocessing  or  waste  disposal  facilities  be- 
cause of  national  energy  policies.  The  latest  date  I've  seen 
published,  and  this  keeps  getting  pushed  further  and  fur- 
ther into  the  future,  is  that  by  the  late  1980s  a  decision 
will  be  made  on  waste  disposal.  Now,  this  is  a  federal  pol- 
icy position.  I  think  they  could  make  up  their  minds  to- 
day if  they  really  wanted  to  make  a  political  decision.  But 
I  don't  believe  that  there's  any  senator  who  is  willing  to 
stand  up  and  say  "OK,  put  it  in  my  state." 


QUESTION:  Would  the  economic 
feasibility  of  nuclear  power  be  altered 
if  the  companies  were  responsible  for 
the  reprocessing  and  rendering  safe  of 
nuclear  wastes  from  their  own  power 
plants?  Right  now,  there's  an  open 
loop.  The  nuclear  waste  is  being 
stored;  it's  not  being  dealt  with  physi- 
cally. If  the  cost  of  reprocessing  or 
safe  permanent  storage  were  born  by 
power  plants,  what  would  then  be  the 
relative  cost  of  electricity  from  a  nu- 
clear power  plant  vs.  oil  or  coal  or  our 
other  alternatives? 

MR.  BROWN:  It  would  be  cheaper  still.  There's  an  aw- 
ful lot  of  potential  energy  still  contained  in  the  fuel  rods 
that  are  not  being  reprocessed  today.  If  reprocessing  were 
to  take  place,  there  would  be  a  net  savings.  There's  an  aw- 
ful lot  of  money  sitting  in  that  spent  fuel.  In  terms  of 
waste,  I  think  that's  a  technical  problem  that's  already 
been  solved.  Certainly  there  are  long-term  wastes,  but 

18 /The  WP1  Journal / Summer  1979 


they  can  be  rendered  safe  through  ceramicizing  and  stor- 
age in  salt  domes. 

I'd  like  to  point  out  why  we  can't  make  the  decision 
in  this  country.  France  has  recently  announced  they  are 
going  nuclear.  They  are  installing  reprocessing  and  waste 
disposal  facilities.  West  Germany  just  had  a  hearing, 
which  lasted  several  weeks,  on  a  complete  reprocessing 
and  waste  disposal  back-end  system  for  nuclear,  because 
they've  made  up  their  mind  that  they're  not  going  to  be 
importing  oil.  If  they  can  do  it,  I  submit  that  this  country 
can.  I  think  it's  a  political  problem  more  than  a  technical 
one. 


QUESTION:  It's  my  personal  belief 
that  the  established  utility  industry 
will  not  be  able  to  convert  to  alterna- 
tive energy  sources  because  they 
have  a  commitment  to  centralized 
power.  What  would  you  think  of  the 
concept  of  distributing  energy  man- 
agement to  the  end  user?  Say  you  sold 
an  appliance  that  would  control  load 
at  the  user,  switching  between  sev- 
eral sources  of  power  like  solar,  elec- 
tricity, solar  water  heat,  a  nearby  ther- 
mal or  geothermal  source,  or  some- 
thing like  this.  The  electronics  would 
match  the  source  of  power  with  the 
least.  I  find  it  hard  to  believe  the 
mass  centralized  power  source  is  the 
least  expensive. 

MR.  BROWN:  OK,  let  me  try  to  answer  that.  First  of  all, 
I  think  we've  reached  the  peak  size  of  generating  units.  I 
think  the  future  —  10  or  20  years  from  now  —  is  going  to 
see  smaller  and  smaller  units,  particularly  as  we  can  get 
into  other  technologies,  whether  they  be  fuel  cells  or  pho- 
tovoltaic or  solar  or  what  have  you.  But  as  long  as  the  cus- 
tomer has  to  be  supplied  by  wire,  I  don't  really  see  any 
purpose  to  the  end  user  choosing  whether  he's  supplied  by 
solar-generated  electricity,  or  solar-thermal,  or  photovol- 
taic. Electricity  today  comes  from  gas,  coal,  oil,  nuclear, 
etc.  and  you  don't  notice  the  difference.  I  think  well  go  to 
more  decentralized  plants,  smaller  plants,  and  use  alterna- 
tives where  possible.  But  I  don't  really  see  that  the  end 
user  is  going  to  determine  how  it's  generated,  unless  he 
generates  it  himself. 


QUESTION:  All  the  solar  energy 
discussions  that  Ive  heard,  including 
your  own,  talk  about  the  use  of  solar 
panels  for  residences.  Are  there  any 
realistic  ways  to  use  solar  energy  in 
industry? 

MR.  MITCHELL:  One  of  the  technologies  we  are  in- 
terested in,  one  the  Department  of  Energy  has  instructed 
us  to  develop,  concerns  industrial  processes  and  agricul- 


tural  processes  where  solar  energy  can  make  significant 
heat  inputs  and  displace  the  need  for  oil.  We  are  working 
on  that.  But  we  don't  have  an  actual  measurement  at  our 
fingertips  as  to  what  that  potential  is.  We  are  developing 
it,  and  we  are  working  with  industry  in  that  context.  It  is 
real,  and  any  Btu  that  we  as  a  community  can  save  is  a 
unit  of  petroleum  that  we  do  not  have  to  import.  That's 
important,  particularly  when  you  consider  that  oil  now  is 
at  just  about  $20  a  barrel.  By  1985  it  will  be  at  least  $45  a 
barrel.  And  so  with  each  passing  day,  as  this  incremental 
cost  continues  to  increase,  there  is  a  larger  incentive,  both 
short-term  and  longer-term,  to  maximize  a  fixed  cost  that 
would  supply,  from  there  on  in,  free  energy.  That's  exactly 
what  we're  pushing.  It  is  there  and  it  is  real. 


QUESTION:  Where  is  the  capital  to 
come  from  . . .  industry? 

MR.  MITCHELL:  Government  has  a  real  problem,  be- 
cause they  have  got  to  improve  cash  flow.  They've  got  to 
provide  the  incentives  which  will  persuade  the  consumer 
(whether  it's  the  home  owner,  such  as  ourselves,  or  the 
commercial  venture  or  the  business  venture,  anyone  that 
uses  energy  now)  to  invest  in  solar.  As  it  is  now,  there  are 
very  few  people  who  can  put  down  $2,500  for  a  solar  sys- 
tem. That's  why  government  has  instituted  the  income- 
tax  credit.  That's  why  the  Department  of  Housing  and  Ur- 
ban Development  has  instituted  the  grant  process,  and  it's 
why  local  and  state  governments  are  putting  in  abatement 
procedures  that  will  provide  relief  from  property  tax  for 
fixed  periods  of  time,  maybe  five  years,  maybe  seven 
years.  It  is  why  states  like  California  and  Vermont  have 
put  in  sizable  income  tax  credits.  California,  for  instance, 
has  an  objective  of  50,000  household  units  this  year. 
That's  pretty  big.  But  once  you  can  get  this  going,  once 
you  can  get  the  old  wheel  rolling,  it  will  really  take  off. 

Our  job  is  to  accelerate  the  commercialization  of  so- 
lar, not  taking  anyone's  place  but  working  with  all  the  in- 
stitutions that  exist,  we  want  to  see  a  new  technology  suc- 
cessfully introduced  into  the  marketplace  in  six  to  ten 
years  instead  of  the  twenty-five  to  thirty-five  years  it 
would  normally  take.  Nothing  like  this  has  ever  been 
tried  before.  This  is  deliberately  putting  someone  between 
the  consumer  and  government.  It  is  government  putting 
money  into  something  that  would  stimulate  demand  real- 
istically. And  government  is  doing  it  for  the  consumer.  So, 
to  answer  your  question,  there  are  distinct  opportunities, 
distinct  applications.  Some  of  them  still  have  to  be  identi- 
fied, but  we  want  to  work  very  closely  with  industry,  with 
commerce,  and  with  labor  in  order  to  get  these  things 
identified  and  get  the  applications  in  place. 


Then,  secondly,  that's  only  meet- 
ing one  part  of  the  overall  energy 
need.  How  does  this  renewable  re- 
sources scenario  speak  to  the  trans- 
portation sector,  which  accounts  for 
25  percent  of  our  energy  consump- 
tion? 


MS.  MURPHY:  First,  I  don't  think  in  the  near  future, 
even  after  the  year  2000,  we're  going  to  see  a  substantial 
contribution  to  the  base-load  capacity  through  alternative 
energy  sources,  through  renewable  resources.  What  I'm 
trying  to  focus  on  is  that  there  is  a  translation  from  action 
into  research,  and  that's  not  good  enough.  There  are  a  lot 
of  technologies  on  the  shelf  right  now.  California  can  talk 
about  50,000  homes  while  we  have  100  —  that's  ridicu- 
lous. We  ought  to  be  looking  far  more  aggressively  at  the 
installation  of  the  technologies  that  are  on  the  shelf  right 
now  to  help  us  through  this  period  of  time.  We  should  be 
doing  it  not  as  research  and  demonstration  but  picking 
the  stuff  up  off  the  shelf  and  getting  it  installed.  We  may 
look  to  R&D  for  some  major  technological  breakthroughs 
on  base-load  capacity,  but  I'm  really  focusing  renewable  re- 
sources on  the  intermediate  and  the  peak-load  capacity,  so 
that  we  aren't  assuming  we  will  continue  to  rely  on  coal, 
oil,  and  nuclear,  even  for  most  of  the  intermediate  capac- 
ity. 

Regarding  the  call  for  action  around  coal,  yes.  We've 
debated  the  coal/nuclear  issue  now  for  years,  particularly 
in  New  England.  And  while  we  may  differ  on  pro-coal  or 
pro-nuclear,  we  are  hurting  ourselves  more  than  anyone 
else  by  not  going  one  way  or  the  other.  Instead  we  con- 
tinue the  debate  ad  nauseum,  a  matter  I  really  think  is  go- 
ing to  stalemate.  There  does  need  to  be  a  regional  or  na- 
tional decision  on  that.  And  the  more  that  we  can  force 
that  decision  to  happen,  then  I  think  we  will  finally  get 
on  with  the  job. 

On  transportation,  to  the  extent  that  we  can  use  re- 
newable resources  for  providing  some  parts  of  the  energy 
needs  in  any  sectors,  that  will  provide  more  energy  capac- 
ity for  transportation.  We'll  really  be  hard-pressed  to  use 
solar  technologies  for  transportation,  so  let's  be  practical 
about  where  we  can  apply  them.  If  they're  not  applicable 
in  transportation,  at  least  they  clearly  are  usable  right 
now  in  some  of  our  home  heating,  commercial,  retail,  and 
industrial  uses  of  energy,  and  so  we  ought  to  focus  on 
those  first.  But  we  have  to  stop  the  translation  into  re- 
search and  development  and  begin  to  talk  in  terms  of  the 
technologies  that  are  already  on  the  shelf. 


DR.  EDMUND  CRANCH: 

The  only  real  option  I  see  to 
meet  the  major  load  is  coal.  When  I 
hear  solar,  that's  peak-load  usage.  So 
my  question:  isn't  the  call  for  action 
really  a  call  to  change  the  national 
policy  on  coal?  And  this  is  not  a  re- 
gional issue. 


Summer  1919 /The  WPl  journal/  19 


Kay  Wear  Draper  — 
WPI's  own  talkin'  woman 


"SPEECHES  ARE  LIKE  BABIES  —  easy  to  conceive, 
hard  to  deliver/'  says  Kay  Wear  Draper,  mother  of  six  and 
an  English  lecturer  at  WPI. 

This  outgoing,  vibrant  woman,  who  was  Massachu- 
setts Mother  of  the  Year  in  1978,  believes  that  humor  be- 
longs in  the  classroom  as  well  as  in  the  living  room.  "It 
holds  the  attention  of  the  students,"  she  explains.  "It  tells 
them  that  you're  with  them.  That  you  love  them.  That 
you  truly  want  to  help  them." 

Currently  Kay  teaches  public  speaking  to  undergradu- 
ates and  to  students  in  evening  continuing  education 
classes  at  WPI.  She  also  teaches  English  as  a  second  lan- 
guage. She  smiles  at  the  thought  of  the  latter.  "Would  you 
believe  that  I  don't  speak  fluently  any  language  other  than 
English,  and  that  I'm  not  even  a  certified  teacher?'  Then 
how  was  she  able  to  find  her  present  teaching  post:  Kay 
Draper  laughs.  "I  didn't  find  it.  It  found  me." 


ON  A  BLISTERING  July  afternoon  in  1973,  Mrs.  James 
B.  Draper,  Jr.,  wife  of  the  Headmaster  of  the  former  Shep- 
herd Knapp  School  in  Boylston,  was  running  what  she 
terms  "the  world's  largest  barn  sale"  on  the  school  grounds. 
"The  last  thing  on  my  mind  was  a  job,"  she  confides.  "I  was 
the  busy  wife  of  a  headmaster  and  the  mother  of  six  chil- 
dren. I  hadn't  worked  since  1949.  But  I  had  written  a  book 


At  the  height  of  the  barn  sale,  Kay  received  a  phone 
call  from  Prof.  Charles  Heventhal  of  the  WPI  English  De- 
partment. We'd  like  you  to  be  our  guest  at  lunch,"  he  said. 
"We  have  a  teaching  post  open,  and  we'd  like  to  talk  about 
it  with  you." 

"I'm  not  a  teacher,"  Kay  informed  him.  "I  know," 
Heventhal  went  on.  "But  I  read  your  book,  How  to 
produce  plays  without  crying.  I  liked  it.  I'm  sure  you  have 
the  type  of  teaching  ability  that  we're  looking  for." 

How  to  produce  plays  without  crying  is  a  popular 
book  covering  every  aspect  of  the  production  of  children's 
plays.  It  is  full  of  detailed  information  and  laced  with  Dra- 
per wit.  On  page  48  it  even  reminds  the  amateur  producer 
not  to  forget  to  "detach  the  ruby  from  the  slave  girl's 
navel"  at  the  end  of  the  play! 

Kay  decided  to  attend  the  WPI  luncheon  meeting.  In 
remembering,  she  again  blossoms  forth  with  that  ready 
smile  of  hers.  "We'd  lived  in  Boylston  for  years,"  she  says, 
"but  I  still  had  to  look  up  the  location  of  WPI  on  the 
Worcester  street  map.  That  should  give  you  some  idea  of 
how  hectic  things  had  become  out  in  Boylston." 

The  luncheon  with  Prof.  Heventhal,  Dean  Bernard 
Brown,  and  former  dean  Kenneth  Nourse  was  a  success. 
"Of  course,  Mrs.  Draper,  you  can  teach!"  She  was,  after  all, 
a  Phi  Beta  Kappa  with  a  BA  in  drama  and  English  from 
Oberlin  College,  and  she'd  worked  on  her  master's  in 
drama  at  Northwestern  University's  School  of  Speech.  Be- 
fore her  marriage,  she  had  worked  as  a  writer  and  an- 
nouncer at  various  radio  stations  in  Florida,  Kansas,  and  Il- 
linois. She'd  been  a  freelance  actress,  director,  and  pro- 
ducer in  Illinois,  Germany  (with  the  American  Red  Cross 
Clubs),  Massachusetts,  and  Maine.  She  had  directed 
dozens  of  student  shows.  After  her  marriage  to  a  para- 
trooper sergeant,  she'd  briefly  taught  English  at  Brunswick 
(Maine)  High  School.  Of  course  Mrs.  Draper  could  teach 
—  communications. 

Back  in  Boylston,  Kay's  husband,  Jim,  a  renowned 
gourmet  cook  and  dedicated  father,  backed  his  wife's  new 
aspirations  to  the  hilt.  The  children  were  practically 
grown  up.  Everything  would  be  in  control  on  the  home 
front.  Kay  should  definitely  not  pass  up  the  teaching  op- 
portunity. 


"THE  FIRST  THING  I  DID  was  to  read  everything  I 
could  get  my  hands  on  about  communications,"  she  says. 
"Then  I  taught  my  first  class.  I  loved  it." 

Among  Kay's  early  classes  were  many  with  foreign 
students.  Those  from  Kuwait  generally  had  trouble  with 
pronouncing  their  "Fs."  Kay  made  use  of  the  old  dramatic 
trick  of  puffing  feathers  into  the  air  and  blowing  out  can- 
dle flames  while  strongly  shaping  the  "V"  sound.  "One  stu- 
dent, in  particular,  caught  on  very  fast,"  Kay  recalls.  "He 
got  so  that  he  could  pronounce  all  of  his  'Ps'  perfectly. 
And  he  had  a  terrific  sense  of  humor.  After  the  final  ex- 
ams had  been  graded,  he  appeared  at  my  door  bearing  a 
gift.  Thank  you  for  everything,'  he  said.  He  handed  me  a 
box.  Berfume  from  Bersia,'  he  laughed  and  fled." 


20 /The  WPI  Journal / Summer  1979 


Weekly  student  trips  to  such  places  as  Sturbridge  Vil- 
lage and  the  Higgins  Armory  forced  Kay  to  use  her  bat- 
tery of  dramatic  skills,  since  she  was  unable  to  converse 
in  the  native  languages  of  the  students  from  Kuwait  and 
Venezuela. 

"Along  the  way,  I  acted  out,  charade  style,  things  such 
as  fence,  horse,  house  —  anything  we  could  see  out  of  the 
bus  window.  It  was  especially  difficult  at  the  Armory,"  she 
continues.  "It  was  relatively  easy  for  me  to  portray  a  joust- 
ing scene,  but  how  do  you  adequately  act  out  honor  and 
chivalry"?  It  is  a  credit  to  both  teacher  and  students  that 
they  ultimately  understood  one  another  very  well. 

One  of  Kay's  techniques  was  to  ask  each  of  her  for- 
eign students  to  bring  in  to  class  a  new  English  word,  one 
he  did  not  clearly  understand.  Kay,  through  dramatic  pre- 
sentation and  simple  discussion,  would  then  try  to  ex- 
plain the  meaning  of  the  word. 

"One  day  my  good  intentions  backfired  a  bit,"  she  re- 
ports. "The  unknown  word  was  beach.  Immediately  I 
fashioned  a  little  playlet  concerning  waves,  sand,  tides, 
and  sea  shells.  Most  of  the  class  caught  on  right  away,  but 
the  student  who'd  offered  the  word  in  the  first  place 
looked  more  perplexed  than  ever.  I  asked  him  what  was 
troubling  him. 

'Well,  Mrs.  Draper,'  he  began,  'I  still  don't  understand 
the  word  beach.'  I  asked  him  how  he'd  heard  it  used. 

'Somebody  called  me  a  son  of  a  beach.'" 

Kay  Draper,  the  daughter  of  two  missionaries,  quickly 
launched  into  a  15-minute,  off-the-cuff  speech  about 
Anglo-Saxonisms.  By  the  end  of  the  class,  the  meaning  of 
most  four  (and  five)  letter  English  words  had  been  made 
perfectly  clear. 

"Not  my  usual  vocabulary,"  Kay  admits.  "But  as  stu- 
dents in  this  country,  they  had  a  right  to  know  words  that 
are  commonly  used  on  college  campuses  here,  good  /or 
bad!  And,  believe  it  or  not,  the  class  seemed  to  appreciate 
my  sweating  out  the  explanations." 

At  the  beginning  of  her  work  with  newly  arrived 
Venezuelans,  Kay  told  her  students  that  only  English 
words  should  be  spoken  in  her  classroom.  "If  you  don't 
speak  it,  you  won't  learn  it,"  she  warned  them.  She  sped  up 
their  learning  by  playing  "Simon  Says"  and  singing  songs 
in  English.  If  she  caught  anyone  speaking  in  his  native 
tongue,  she  stood  him  in  a  corner. 

"The  foreign  students  found  this  'punishment'  utterly 
hilarious,"  she  confesses.  "And  they  didn't  hesitate  for  one 
moment  to  turn  the  tables  on  me.  On  the  final  day  of  one 
course,  I  said  farewell  to  my  Spanish-speaking  students  by 
saying  'Vayan  con  Dios.'  They  laughed  and  headed  me  to- 
ward a  corner." 

Because  there  have  been  so  many  foreign  students 
eager  to  learn  English,  Kay  has  been  aided  by  two  master 
tutors,  Mrs.  Elisabeth  Rubin  and  Mrs.  Mary  Jane  O'Neil  of 
the  Writing  Resources  Center  at  WPI.  "They  are  abso- 
lutely wonderful,"  she  says  with  enthusiasm.  "Not  only  do 
they  help  the  students  with  their  grammar  and  enuncia- 
tion, they  also  get  so  involved  with  them  that  they  often 
invite  the  students  to  their  homes  and  take  them  along 
on  family  trips."  (It  is  not  without  reason  that  the  students 


call  Kay,  Elisabeth,  and  Mary  lane  their  "American 
mothers.") 


KAY  ALSO  TEACHES  the  art  of  speech-making,  and 
has  prepared  a  booklet  to  help  students  plan  and  present 
oral  reports  (usually  required  in  connection  with  project 
work).  The  booklet  discusses  how  to  prepare  for  an  oral 
presentation,  ways  of  delivering  a  talk,  pointers  on  speak- 
ing, and  suggestions  for  using  visual  aids.  The  informa- 
tion, although  it  is  in  outline  form,  contains  valuable 
hints  and,  as  always,  an  injection  of  humor.  At  one  point, 
Kay  reminds  the  shaky  prospective  speaker  that  "the  time 
given  you  (to  speak)  will  probably  be  brief.  Thank 
heavens!" 

In  her  book-length  blueprint  on  speech-making,  Speak 
Easy,  Kay  covers  virtually  every  facet  of  the  subject,  in- 
cluding mini-exercises  to  relieve  tension  and  stage  fright. 
Commenting  on  the  proper  presentation  of  an  after  dinner 
speech,  Kay  notes,  "Like  peppermints,  you  should  be  wel- 
come after  dinner."  She  believes  that  one's  energy  should 
be  aimed  at  getting  the  message  across  most  effectively,  in 
the  shortest  possible  time,  and  with  the  least  amount  of 
effort.  Of  long-winded,  off-the-mark  speeches,  she  says: 
"Speeches  are  like  steer  horns  —  a  point  here,  a  point 
there,  and  a  lot  of  bull  in  between." 

Once  students  are  caught  up  in  Kay's  enthusiasm, 
they  learn  quickly  how  to  prepare  and  present  acceptable, 
even  enjoyable,  speeches.  "The  tape  machine  plays  a  big 
part  in  the  learning  process,"  Kay  explains.  "The  very  first 


Summer  1979 /The  WPI  Journal/ 21 


day  I  insist  that  my  students  stand  up  and  be  videotaped 
giving  a  speech.  Seven  weeks  later,  after  a  series  of  subse- 
quent tapings,  they  are  usually  astonished  to  see  how  far 
they  have  progressed.  Kay  grins.  "At  least  they  won't  fall 
apart  years  from  now  when  they  have  to  give  a  fund- 
raising  speech  for  the  hospital.  And,  hopefully,  what 
they've  learned  may  also  help  them  further  their  careers." 
Kay  strongly  believes  that  the  average  engineering  stu- 
dent, American  or  international,  should  be  able  to  com- 
municate his  or  her  ideas  effectively  by  graduation  day. 


NOW  THAT  SHE'S  BEEN  AT  IT  for  six  years,  what 
does  her  husband  think  of  her  teaching?  "Jim  has  been 
supportive  all  along,"  Kay  replies.  "Sometimes  he  thinks 
I'm  away  from  home  a  lot,  especially  when  I  have  evening 
classes  or  conferences  and  must  stay  overnight  in  Worces- 
ter. The  fact  that  he  is  an  eternal  optimist  and  can  handle 
anything  that  comes  up  at  home  (not  only  does  he  cook, 
he  also  hooks  rugs!)  has  been  a  plus.  Jim  enjoys  his  work, 
too.  He  is  a  teacher-coach  at  the  Lawrence  Academy  in 
Groton,  Massachusetts,  where  he  was  recently  named 
Dean  of  the  Faculty." 

And  the  children?  "Since  they  range  in  age  from  18  to 
30,  they  aren't  children  any  longer,"  she  says.  "They  were 
used  to  my  being  involved  in  church  and  community 
work  while  they  were  growing  up.  My  post  at  WPI  was 
just  another  involvement  to  them.  They  approve  of  my  ca- 
reer. As  a  matter  of  fact,  Susan  Kanya  Draper,  my 
daughter-in-law  and  the  mother  of  two  of  our  grand- 
children, used  to  be  Dean  Grogan's  secretary.  So  you  can 
see  that  WPI  is  very  much  a  family  affair." 

Getting  back  to  families  and  mothering,  Kay  chuck- 
les about  the  events  leading  up  to  her  being  named  Massa- 
chusetts Mother  of  the  Year  in  1978.  "When  West  Con- 
cord Union  Church  nominated  me  for  the  state  honor  last 
year,  I  had  never  heard  of  the  American  Mothers'  Commit- 
tee, which  sponsors  the  annual  national  search.  Actually, 
my  first  reaction  was,  What  about  my  dog,  Penny?  She's 
taken  care  of  her  pups  sometimes  better  than  I've  taken 
care  of  my  own  kids.  I  don't  even  cook!  Nevertheless,  I  did 
accept  the  candidacy,  and  I  was  chosen." 

Former  Governor  Michael  Dukakis  presented  the 
award  to  Kay  at  Regis  College  in  March  of  last  year.  In 
May  she  went  to  Des  Moines,  Iowa,  for  the  national  con- 
vention. Out  of  the  51  state  mothers  in  the  competition, 
Kay  won  one  of  the  top  five  awards,  her  category  —  com- 
munications. Since  then,  Kay  Draper  has  been  elected 
president  of  the  Massachusetts  Mothers  Association. 


In  order  to  qualify  for  Massachusetts  Mother  of  the 
Year,  Kay  had  to  be,  first,  a  successful  mother.  Okay.  Kay 
talks  lovingly  of  her  six  children  and  three  grandchildren, 
describing  her  kids  as  strong  and  ambitious.  Their  talents 
range  from  restaurant  consultant  to  nurse,  and  they  live 
across  the  country,  from  New  Hampshire  to  California.  "I 
haven't  always  liked  them,"  Kay  comments,  "but  I've  al- 
ways loved  them.  I  would  often  look  at  rainbows  with 
them  instead  of  doing  the  dishes.  Before  going  to  sleep  at 
night,  I'd  encourage  them  to  think  about  the  happiest  mo- 
ment of  their  day.  My  'goodnight'  words  to  them  were  al- 
ways, 'See  you  in  the  morning.'"  Those  are  the  words  she'd 
like  to  have  inscribed  on  her  tombstone. 

A  Mother  of  the  Year  candidate  must  also  be  an  ac- 
tive member  of  a  religious  body,  exemplify  the  Golden 
Rule  in  her  life,  be  involved  in  civic  affairs,  and  do  general 
volunteer  work.  She  must  be  an  all-around  "doer,"  accord- 
ing to  Kay,  and  be  able  to  give  speeches  and  interviews. 
"And  when  she  is  talking  about  the  moral  structure  of  the 
family  to  the  public,  she  has  to  be  specific,  because  family 
solidarity  is  what  the  American  Mothers  Committee  em- 
phasizes." 


KAY  DRAPER,  who  was  born  in  China  the  daughter  of 
Christian  missionaries,  carries  with  her  a  quality  of  ra- 
diant living  and  pure  unadulterated  joy  and  energy  that  is 
hard  to  miss.  "If  I  have  energy,  it  is  God's  strength  being 
channeled  through  me.  I  welcome  His  light  and  love.  I  try 
to  get  the  selfish  'me'  out  of  the  way  and  leave  myself 
open  to  His  will." 

An  optimist  like  her  husband,  Kay  prefers  to  concen- 
trate on  the  'glowing'  aspects  of  life  and  side-step  the  bad. 
"I  try  not  to  pack  my  subconscious  with  garbage  like  por- 
nography. I  firmly  believe  that  a  hopeful  attitude  can 
change  your  life,  and  that  there  is  goodness  in  everyone." 


22 /The  WPI  Journal /Summer  1919 


•vnsmmwniMiui 


Reiiniuniunion  1979 


.Summer  1979 /The  WPl  Journal / 23 


When  you  are  out  50  years  . . . 


"What  is  so  rare  as  a  day  in  June?" 

Poet  James  Russell  Lowell  has 
his  answer.  "Three  days  —  when 
they're  your  50th  class  reunion." 

The  WPI  Class  of  1929  turned 
that  up  last  June  7,  8,  and  9.  The 
event  was  a  lifetime  coming,  and  it 
flitted  by  ever  so  softly  and  was  gone 
before  anyone  could  become  accus- 
tomed to  it. 

There  was  that  anticipation  of 
Thursday  afternoon  at  the  Sheraton- 
Lincoln  Inn  and  the  crowded  hospi- 
tality room,  too  small  to  contain  the 
shouts  of  joy  that  spilled  into  corri- 
dors when  old  friends  met  and  tried 
to  identify.  For  some  it  was  the  first 
time  back  since  the  class  had  fanned 
out  from  Boynton  Hill  to  take  on  the 
world. 

Fate  had  answered  them  with  the 
doom  of  financial  ruin  on  Wall  Street 
and  the  Depression  of  the  30s.  Ah,  it 
was  but  the  first  hurdle  in  a  lifelong 
steeplechase.  And  then,  the  war  that 
engulfed  everyone  in  '42  and  scarred 
the  world. 

But  no  time  for  that,  or  Korea, 
Watergate,  or  Viet  Nam.  This  was 
THE  DAY.  Start  the  "whoopee,"  so 
long  contained,  often  repressed. 

As  the  bus  filled  rapidly,  every- 
one tried  to  talk  at  once  to  span  the 
intervening  years.  There  was  so 
much  to  say.  So  little  time  to  say  it 
before  the  rip  tide  of  reunion  swept 
all  into  President  and  Mrs.  Cranch's 
reception  at  Jeppson  House.  What  a 
welcome.  What  a  cocktail  party.  En- 
joy. Enjoy. 


Then  on  to  Higgins  House  for 
dinner.  Roast  prime  rib  of  beef  and  all 
the  fixin's  in  the  splendor  of  the 
Great  Hall.  For  whom?  '29,  '29,  '29! 
The  "new"  president  and  his  wife 
were  charmers,  and  '29  was  their  first 
50-year  class  to  return  to  Tech.  They 
took  special  delight  in  the  joy  of  each 
50-year  diplomate  (some  of  whom 
were  receiving  a  WPI  diploma  for  the 
first  time). 

The  "glow"  lasted  all  the  way 
back  by  bus  to  the  Sheraton-Lincoln, 
where  the  tired  ones  split  and  the 
younger  at  heart  began  talk-fests  that 
ill  prepared  them  for  the  morrow. 

Registration  began  Friday  morn- 
ing in  the  Wedge,  then  campus 
viewing  of  all  the  changes  in  50 
years,  especially  that  new  old  build- 
ing, Boynton  Hall.  No  more  creaky 
stairs  ...  an  elevator,  yet.  The  exterior 
the  same  as  its  picture  postcard 
silhouette  against  the  powder  puff 
skies  above.  Truly  a  new  modern  ad- 
ministration building  in  the  old  na- 
tive gray  granite  shell  that  remains 
the  living  symbol  of  WPI.  And  this 
was  but  the  first  surprise  on  the  tour 
led  by  Steve  Hebert,  the  Answer 
Man. 

Walking  over  almost-forgotten 
paths  whetted  appetites  for  the  buffet 
luncheon  in  Morgan  Hall,  an  inter- 
lude before  inspection  of  buildings 
that  have  made  the  West  Campus 
come  alive  since  the  school  days  of 
1929.  And  then  there  was  a  special 
visit  to  the  Worcester  Art  Museum 


for  the  more  hardy. 

Friday  night  was  the  might  for 
corsages  for  the  ladies  and  special  sty- 
rofoam  safari  hats  for  all  at  the  Class 
Banquet  in  the  Chartley  room  of  the 
Sheraton-Lincoln.  The  entrees  for  65 
members  and  guests  were  medallion 
of  sirloin  or  schrod,  another  exquisite 
meal  among  many.  Prof.  William  R. 
Grogan,  '46,  dean  of  undergraduate 
studies,  talked  about  "Tech  Today"  — 
an  insight  into  the  present  curricu- 
lum and  how  the  WPI  Plan  came 
about.  After  a  short  business  wrapup, 
the  program  marked  special,  less  seri- 
ous interests  of  the  class  and  named 
superlatives  for  probably  the  last 
time. 

Among  them:  Most  recently  mar- 
ried: McGowan,  who  received  a  re- 
cord, "The  Best  Is  Yet  to  Come";  Fa- 
ther with  youngest  child:  Deranian,  a 
loving  cup,  "Father  of  the  Year";  Class 
member  with  least  hair:  Mooshian,  a 
box  of  Miracle  Grow;  Married 
longest:  Gilbert,  a  record,  "We  Could 
Start  All  Over  Again";  Grandfather 
with  most  grandchildren:  Barnard,  a 
loving  cup,  "Grandfather  of  the  Year"; 
Greatest  distance  from  home:  Burr,  a 
binkey  to  worry  about  gas  en  route 
to  Mexico;  Shortest  in  the  class: 
Baldwin,  a  Pee  Wee  squeeze  toy; 
Thinnest  in  the  class:  Chin,  shoe 
strings;  Heaviest:  Heald,  thin  mints; 
Unmarried:  Chin,  a  life-size  poster  of 
Raquel  Welch;  Solo  driver  returning 
to  Arizona:  Dobie,  a  radio  aerial  pen- 
nant, "Resting." 


24 /The  WPI  journal  /Summer  1919 


All  received  tankards  with  class 
emblem  as  favors.  For  the  more  prac- 
tical, they  can  be  used  as  desk-top 
pencil  holders. 

On  Saturday,  1 929  joined  the 
general  Alumni  Reunion,  with  a  long 
table  the  focal  point  under  the  trees 
on  the  gorgeous  Higgins  House  lawn. 
The  college  food  service  outdid  itself 
with  a  roast  boneless  chicken  lun- 
cheon, picnic  style. 

On  the  program,  the  50-year 
class  distinguished  itself  with  a  gift 
to  the  college  of  $37,000,  which  was 
swelled  to  approximately  $50,000  by 
matching  gifts,  according  to 
Holbrook  L.  Horton,  chairman  of  the 
1929  reunion  class  gift  committee. 
The  Class  of  1917  Attendance 
Cup  was  received  for  1 929  by  Re- 
union Chairman  Francis  Wiesman  for 
an  attendance  of  48  percent.  His  com- 
mittee was  Deranian,  Donahue,  La- 
bonte,  and  O'Connell. 

In  addition  to  the  above,  atten- 
dees were:  Baldwin,  Barnard,  Berry, 
Broker,  Burr,  Carlson,  Chin,  Cook, 
Crosby  Dobie,  French,  Gilbert,  Heald, 
Knight,  Lane,  McCarthy,  McGowan, 
Edson  Merrill,  Mrs.  Norman  Merrill, 
Mooshian,  Newton,  Petrie,  Halbert 
Pierce,  Robinson,  Russell,  Stone, 
Towne,  Wiley,  Matson,  Dephoure, 
and  Nims,  plus  their  wives  and 
guests. 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Larry  Barnard  took 
a  special  alumni  package  of  souvenirs 
and  memorabilia  to  Frank  R.  Joslin  in 
University  Hospital,  Boston,  where 
he  was  under  treatment  at  the  time 
of  the  Reunion. 

Good  Luck  '29ers, 
Wherever  You  Are. 
Stephen  D.  Donahue  (s.d.d.) 


Top:  Winners  of  the  1979  Herbert  F. 
Taylor  Awards  for  alumni  service  to  WPI 
are,  from  left,  Arthur  E.  Smith,  '33,  and 
Irving  (ames  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44,  along  with 
Mrs.  Taylor  and  Carl  Backstrom,  '30, 
chairman  of  the  Citations  Committee. 

Above:  Recipients  of  the  Robert  H.  God- 
dard  Award  for  outstanding  professional 
achievement  are,  from  left,  Charles,  F. 
Jones,  '48,  and  Alfred  Strogoff,  '49,  with 
WPI  Board  Chairman  Paul  S.  Morgan. 

At  Left:  Paul  Morgan  and  Association 
president  Bill  Julian,  '49,  present  the  WPI 
Award  for  service  to  the  college  to 
President-Emeritus  George  W.  Hazzard. 

Below:  Bill  Julian  with  Daniel  J.  Maguire, 
'66,  winner  of  the  John  Boynton  Award  for 
service  by  a  young  alumnus. 


Summer  1979 /The  WPI  journal / 25 


II     li 


1      I   I 


Class  of  1934s 
45th  Reunion 

Our  45th  Reunion  was  just  about  the 
best  we  have  ever  had.  Ted  Hammett 
and  his  reunion  committee  did  a 
great  job,  and  we  are  particularly  in- 
debted to  the  people  in  the  Alumni 
Office  for  putting  together  a  great 
package  for  the  weekend.  Having  all 
our  activities  right  on  the  campus 
worked  out  great.  It  was  particularly 
nice  to  be  able  to  all  stay  in 
Ellsworth  Residence,  and  to  have  our 
own  hospitality  suite.  Warren  and 
Helen  Davenport  did  a  hangup  job 
hosting  this  suite,  and  if  I  had  a 
count  on  the  number  of  times  War- 
ren had  to  rush  out  to  the  local  sup- 
ply emporium  to  replenish  stock,  it 
would  attest  to  the  popularity  of  this 
spot.  It  was  great  to  have  a  lot  more 
time  for  reminiscing  and  catching  up 
on  news. 

Another  memorable  item  on  the 
program  was  the  session  on  WPI  To- 
day, given  by  a  panel  headed  by  Dean 
Bill  Grogan,  with  faculty  and  student 
members.  This  covered  the  workings 
and  success  of  the  WPI  Plan. 

A  nice  first  for  us  was  having  the 
Saturday  noon  Alumni  luncheon  out 
on  the  lawn  under  the  trees  near  Hig- 
gins  House.  Both  the  luncheon  and 
the  program  were  nicely  done,  and 
were  a  distinct  credit  to  those  who 
planned  and  took  part  in  it. 

The  high  spot  of  the  weekend  for 
us  was  our  class  dinner  in  one  of  the 
dining  rooms  in  Morgan  Hall.  This 
was  MC'd  by  Charlie  McElroy,  who 
had  a  bagful  of  surprises  up  his 
sleeve,  including  a  raffle  of  a  whole 
box  full  of  goodies.  We  had  as  our 
guest  Tom  Denney,  vice  president  of 
WPI's  University  Relations.  He  is  a 
very  engaging  and  articulate  speaker, 
and  gave  us  a  good  run-down  on 
things  going  on  at  Tech. 

Those  attending  were:  Bertil  An- 
derson, Beebe,  Bissell,  Booth,  Burpee, 
Campbell,  Cowal,  Cutting,  Daven- 
port, Flanagan,  Frary,  Don  Green- 
wood, Grierson,  Carl  Hammarstrom, 
Hammett,  Keenan,  Leavitt,  Markert, 
McElroy,  Phelps,  Rhodes,  Sellew, 
Sjostedt,  Snow,  Paul  Sullivan,  Tytula, 
Vibber,  and  Whittum. 


The  Class  of  1939s 
40th  Reunion 


The  Class  of  1939  closed  its  40th  re- 
union festivities  during  the  very  early 
hours  of  Sunday  morning,  June  10th, 
1979,  when  Al  Rasklavsky  class  pres- 
ident and  general  chairman  of  the  re- 
union committee,  locked  the  door  to 
our  "watering  hole,"  room  102  of  the 
Sheraton-Lincoln  Inn.  That  brought 
down  the  curtain  on  the  greatest  re- 
union, of  the  greatest  class,  of  the 
greatest  school. 

At  least  that  is  the  biased  opin- 
ion of  the  86  '39ers  and  playmates 
who,  on  Saturday  evening,  posed  for  a 
group  picture  and  later  sat  down  for 
the  Reunion  Dinner. 

Earlier  that  day,  they  occupied 
more  than  three  tables  at  the  tradi- 
tional noon-day  luncheon  of  alumni 
on  the  Higgins  House  lawn.  During 
that  event,  C.  lohn  Lindegren,  '39's  re- 
union gift  committee  chairman,  mo- 
destly (he  didn't  mention  the  dollar 
amount)  presented  the  class  gift.  It 
turned  out  to  be  $40,862  at  last 
count,  and  represented  gifts  from  75 
percent  of  the  class. 

On  Friday  evening,  '39ers  were 
the  guests  of  the  college  for  the  40th 
Reunion  Welcome  Dinner  at  Higgins 
House.  This  followed  a  reception  for 
the  class  and  their  wives  hosted  by 


President  and  Mrs.  Edmund  T  Cranch 
at  their  residence  on  Drury  Lane. 
Among  those  greeting  the  '39ers  at 
the  door  was  Bob  Yule,  '80,  son  of  our 
classmate  George  W  Yule. 

For  those  who  have  yet  to  meet 
Tech's  new  prexy  and  his  charming 
wife,  there  is  a  distinct  pleasure  for 
you  to  anticipate.  The  '39ers  were  de- 
lighted with  them. 

Attendance  of  '39ers  was  up  to 
expectations,  with  arrivals  from  as  far 
west  as  California  and  as  far  east  as 
Belgium.  However,  on  a  percentage 
basis  we  were  outdone  by  a  bunch  of 
middle-aged  folk  from  the  Class  of 
'29!  The  Class  prize  for  the  longest 
distance  travelled  to  the  reunion 
went  to  Ernie  Ljunggren,  who  came 
from  San  Diego.  Bob  and  Martha 
Martin,  who  flew  in  from  Brussels,  re- 
fused to  be  considered  for  the  long- 
distance prize,  insisting  that  they  had 
returned  because  they  were  recalled 
by  Pratt  &  Whitney!  That  was  diffi- 
cult for  the  Class  to  believe  since  the 
two  looked  in  great  shape. 

Bob  Bergstrom  won  the  prize 
(courtesy  of  Fuller  Brush  Co.)  for  be- 
ing the  baldest,  while  Lou  Stratton 
and  Ed  Kiem  were  tied  as  the  most 
grandfatherly,  with  1 2  grandchildren 
each. 


Howard  A.  Whittum 


Also  handed  out  to  each  reu- 
nioner  was  a  WPI  glass  and  Reunion 
yearbook.  The  book  was  put  together 
by  Kelley  Keyser,  and  could  only 
have  been  improved  upon  by  more 
inputs  from  you  modest  '39ers.  Inci- 
dentally more  than  one  of  the  wives 
present  was  heard  to  ask  of  the 
whereabouts  of  the  last  person  in  the 
book,  J.  Wellington  Zribell. 

Speaking  of  travel,  Ernie  Sykes 
and  the  Mrs.  arrived  from  California 
with  a  house  trailer,  and  Ed  Kiem  de- 
parted for  Logan  Airport  with  an  Avis 
car  which,  due  to  the  gas  crunch, 
caused  him  to  "try  harder"  (and  per- 
haps cuss  harder)  before  he  found 
enough  fuel  to  get  him  to  Logan  for 
his  return  flight  to  Florida. 

lack  Boyd  and  Charlie  Amidon 
served  on  the  Reunion  Committee 
along  with  Ras,  Kelley  and  John. 
Wally  Abel  and  Don  Houser,  together 
with  Kelley,  John,  and  lack,  made  up 
the  Gift  Committee. 

Carl  and  Janet  Lewin  drove  in 
from  Cleveland  a  week  prior,  since 
Carl  had  to  attend  the  Tech  Board  of 
Trustees  meeting  during  commence- 
ment week.  As  a  consequence,  the  Le- 
wins  had  ample  opportunity  to  try 
the  Sheraton  swimming  pool.  It  is 
best  that  the  Class  of  '39  "skinny  dip- 
pers" and  those  who  fell  in  the  pool 
remain  anonymous. 


Had  Bob  and  Donna  Mirick 
made  it  from  St.  Paul  —  and  if  Dick 
and  Mae  Wilson,  who  came  in  from 
California,  had  not  had  to  depart  just 
before  the  Class  Dinner  —  atten- 
dance at  that  event  would  have  num- 
bered 90.  The  Miricks  turned  back  in 
Chicago  when  Bob's  back  acted  up, 
and  the  Wilsons  left  before  dinner  in 
order  to  catch  a  Saturday  night  flight 
to  Denmark  by  way  of  Italy.  Dick  had 
to  attend  a  Rotary  International 
meeting  in  Rome,  and  he  and  Mae 
have  a  daughter  in  Denmark  who  is 
expecting  a  visit  from  them  and  the 
stork! 

Class  reunions  are  not  without 
some  sadness,  however,  and  the  Class 
was  disheartened  to  hear  that,  since 
the  last  printing  of  the  alumni  direc- 
tory in  1977,  we  had  lost  Earl  Conant, 
Ed  Moggio,  and  George  Monchamp. 
Please  remember  them  and  other  de- 
parted classmates  in  the  fashion  of 
your  faith. 

For  those  of  '39  who  did  not 
make  it  to  the  40th,  keep  in  mind 
that  there's  the  45th  to  plan  for,  and 
four  other  years  in  between.  And  be 
informed  that  none  of  us  were  en- 
thralled by  what  any  classmates  may 
have  accomplished,  nor  were  any  of 
us  appalled  by  what  any  of  us  may 
have  failed  to  accomplish.  Simply,  it 
was  just  a  good  time! 


However,  it  was  the  unanimous 
opinion  of  the  class  that,  when  it 
comes  to  better  halves,  we  all  must 
have  had  child  brides,  since  all  the  la- 
dies present  were  so  young  and  beau- 
tiful. And  while  age  may  be  catching 
up  with  some  of  us,  a  number  ap- 
peared to  have  remained  in  great 
shape.  Two  examples  will  be  identi- 
fied, not  by  name  but  by  quotes  from 
the  1939  Peddler.  One  still  looks  as 
though  he  could,  with  ease,  sink  that 
"one  handed  hook  shot."  The  other  is 
in  such  trim  shape  that,  because  of 
the  behemoths  playing  in  the  line  to- 
day, he  might  have  to  settle  for  being 
a  "scrappy  right  guard"  on  a 
1 75-pound  football  team. 

Finally  for  cne  class  member,  it 
was  a  pleasure  that  his  alphanumeric 
vanity  auto  plates  were,  finally,  500 
miles  from  home,  recognized  to  have 
meaning.  They  read  WPI-39.  Of 
course,  the  bumper  sticker  directly 
beneath  raised  some  doubts,  since  it 
read  "Virginia  is  for  Lovers." 

Art  Mallon 


» 


Summer  1979 /The  WPI  Journal/ 27 


, 


The  Class  of  1944s 
35th  Reunion 


If  you  missed  the  35th,  you  missed  a 
good  time.  We  got  off  to  a  great  start 
as  guests  of  Jim  and  Barbara  Donohue 
in  their  beautiful  home  on  Friday 
night.  There  was  lots  of  good  food,  re- 
freshment to  wash  it  down,  and  good 
fellowship.  In  spite  of  the  fact  that  no 
entertainment  was  necessary,  with 
Jim  on  the  organ  and  Barbara  with 
her  Sesame  Street  marionettes,  and 
with  various  rhythm  instruments 
"played"  by  other  members  of  the 
class,  it  was  quite  an  evening.  And  af- 
ter everyone  went  home,  Molly  (Mrs. 
Steve)  Porter  cleaned  up  so  Barbara 
could  face  the  next  morning. 

We  convened  again  on  Saturday 
noon  on  the  lawn  of  the  Higgins 
House.  There  were  other  classes  as- 
sembled there  too,  but  none  with  the 
enthusiasm  and  spirit  of  '44.  Our 
President  Jim  received  the  Herbert  E 
Taylor  Award  for  Alumni  Service  to 
the  school.  His  pedigree  was  most  im- 
pressive. After  all  this,  we  adjourned 
to  our  respective  nests  for  a  nap. 

Saturday  evening  at  the  Worces- 
ter Country  Club  was  a  great  time, 
too.  The  Club  made  a  critical  mistake 
in  their  planning,  and  the  bar  was  an 
open  one  for  the  first  part  of  the  eve- 
ning. When  Jim,  our  sponsor,  arrived, 
he  immediately  realized  that  it  would 
go  on  his  tab,  and  he  quickly  corre- 
cted the  error.  We  got  the  troops  or- 
ganized for  a  class  picture,  which  ri- 
valled getting  a  man  on  the  moon. 
And  repeated  the  feat  by  getting  ev- 
eryone back  to  the  dining  table.  We 
had  a  delicious  roast  beef  dinner  with 
all  the  fixings. 

But  at  this  point  the  party  began 
to  fall  apart.  Because  we  are  Jim's 
classmates,  we  let  him  know  that  all 
that  baloney  about  what  a  great 
alummus  he's  been  didn't  impress  us 
a  bit;  but  after  some  time  we  reluc- 
tantly acknowledged  that  he  did  re- 
flect a  little  glory  on  the  Class  of  44. 
Then  we  went  through  a  very  digni- 
fied ritual  of  inducting  WPI  President 
Ed  Cranch  and  his  wife  Virginia  into 
the  Class  of  '44.  Much  of  the  discus- 
sion centered  on  why  he  was  not  re- 

28 /The  WPI  Journal / Summer  1979 


ally  eligible  —  like  he  didn't  even 
know  Doc  Masius,  or  Drowsy  Dows, 
or  great  ones  like  Cookie  Price  or 
Don  Downing  —  but  finally  they 
were  accepted  with  enthusiasm  as 
honorary  members  of  our  class.  We 
bestowed  another  honorary  member- 
ship in  our  class  on  Emilie  La- 
gerholm,  having  been  Mrs.  Lagerholm 
for  only  42  days.  If  you've  been  won- 
dering, Emilie  is  just  as  beautiful,  de- 
lightful, and  charming  as  you  can 
imagine.  We  all  thanked  Lag  for  his 
significant  contribution  to  the  class 
and  the  party. 

Then  Ed  Cranch  pulled  the  dig- 
nity of  the  party  back  together 
(though  Joe  Marcus  didn't  give  him 
much  peace!).  Ed  gave  us  a  quick, 
thoughtful,  and  interesting  review  of 
what  he  sees  at  WPI,  and  where  he'd 
like  to  lead  it.  It's  unfortunate  that 
his  talk  can't  be  reviewed  here,  but 
suffice  it  to  say  the  Class  of  '44  heart- 
ily approved. 

Then  to  recognition  of  Blitz 
Krieger,  who  traveled  the  farthest, 
from  California,  and  he  had  the 
oldest  grandchild  too,  at  19.  John  and 
Margie  Bjork  had  the  youngest 
youngster,  age  10.  Art  Pingalore  had 
the  most  hair,  Frank  Williams  the 
least,  and  Don  Gilrein  had  the  most 
grandchildren,  7. 

After  this,  there  were  a  few 
smart  remarks  by  Jim  and  others.  Af- 
ter a  good  deal  of  this  sort  of  foolish- 
ness, the  party  broke  up,  but  not  be- 
fore Jim  led  us  in  the  class  song  (not 
the  alma  mater,  but  "The  Smoke 
Went  Up  the  Chimney").  And  every- 
one promised  to  be  back  for  our  40th. 

Kimball  R.  Woodbury 


The  Class  of  1954's 
25th  Reunion 


Twenty-five  years  go  by  quickly. 
They  must,  because  no  one  had  really 
changed,  and  it  seemed  like  only  yes- 
terday that  we  had  been  together. 
This  was  the  festive  tone  of  our  Re- 
union Weekend,  and  for  the  50  mem- 
bers of  our  class  (along  with  46  wives 
and  8  children)  it  was  a  milestone  to 
remember.  It  was  a  super  weekend. 

It  all  started  with  the  opening  of 
our  Hospitality  Headquarters  Suite  in 
the  Fuller  Residence,  which  became 
the  focal  point  for  all  our  activities. 
We  even  resurrected  the  "Goat's 
Head"  for  the  occasion.  King  and  Dee 
Webster  served  as  the  hosts,  assisted 
by  Lee  and  Rose  Catineau,  Bob  and 
Jackie  Niro,  Bob  and  Del  Labonte,  Ed 
and  Dianne  Shivell,  and  Paul  and  Ju- 
lie Alasso.  The  Suite  always  had 
someone  coming  or  going  and  made 
for  an  ideal  place  to  congregate,  par- 
ticularly after  the  Banquet.  At  that 
point  we  had  about  100  people.  We 
still  cannot  understand  it  —  we 
didn't  run  out  of  either  beer  or  good 
conversation! 

The  Reunion  Luncheon  gave 
Don  Ross,  our  Class  Gift  Committee 
Chairman,  an  opportunity  to  present 
our  nearly  $40,000  gift  --  which, 
with  matching  funds  added  in,  ap- 
proached $60,000.  This  was  a  record 
for  a  25th  anniversary  class  gift. 
These  funds  will  be  applied  to  a  proj- 
ect still  to  be  identified.  Don  and  his 
committee  will  advise. 

Mentioning  participation,  our 
Reunion  featured  the  largest  atten- 
dance ever  by  a  25th  anniversary 
class.  It  appears  that  our  interest  and 
enthusiasm  haven't  changed. 

The  Reunion  reception  at  the 
home  of  President  and  Mrs.  Cranch 
afforded  an  opportunity  to  meet 
them  and  discuss  WPI  and  to  social- 
ize. And  it  prepared  us  properly  for 
the  Banquet. 

The  Banquet  was  superb,  thanks 
to  the  Alumni  Office,  the  caterer, 
and,  more  particularly,  to  Paul  Alasso, 
Bob  Niro,  and  Lee  Catineau,  who 
planned  it.  Lee  also  served  as  the 
Master  of  Ceremonies  and  combined 
levity  and  sobriety  in  a  brief  program 
that  highlighted  members  of  the 


class,  the  personality  of  the  class, 
things  that  happened  while  at  Tech, 
and  the  events  leading  up  to  the  Re- 
union. 

All  our  Class  Officers  were 
present:  Dave  Gilbert,  Joe  Fratino,  Ro- 
ger Osell,  and  Tom  Kee.  Dave  com- 
mented on  the  turnout  and  recog- 
nized Don  Ross  and  Ed  Shivell  for 
their  efforts  as  Chairmen  of  the  Re- 
union Gift  and  Reunion  Committees. 
Both  Don  and  Ed  thanked  their  re- 
spective committees  for  their  efforts 
in  making  both  efforts  highly  suc- 
cessful. 

The  Reunion  Gift  Committee  in- 
cluded Don,  Howie  Nelson,  Roger 
Osell,  Ed  Power,  and  Ed  Shivell.  The 
Reunion  Committee  included  Ed, 
Paul  Alasso,  Lee  Catineau,  Bob  La- 
bonte,  Bob  Niro,  Howie  Nelson,  Ro- 
ger Osell,  and  King  Webster. 

Our  special  guests  for  the  week- 
end and  banquet  were  Bob  and  Ruth 
Wagner,  Ray  and  Joyce  Hagglund,  and 
Carl  and  Arlene  Koontz.  Charlie  and 
Marianne  McNulty  were  unable  to 
attend  because  Charlie  had  just  been 
released  from  the  hospital.  Bob 
Wagner  reflected  back  on  some  of  the 
memebers  of  our  class,  like  Dick 
Gilbert,  Dick  Byrnes,  Bill  Seubert,  Al 
Costantin,  and  Hank  Strage.  Carl 
Koontz  recalled  his  memories  of  the 
civil  engineering  graduates  by 
highlighting  Doug  McLaren,  Jack 
Malloy,  Joe  Fratino,  Dick  Popp,  and 
Hugh  Tufts.  Now  we  know  why  Pro- 
fessor Knight  looked  tired  at  times. 
Right,  Joe? 


The  Yearbook  was  distributed  at 
the  Banquet,  along  with  appropriate 
comments  by  Bob  Labonte,  who  as- 
sembled the  information  and  oversaw 
its  publication  with  the  help  of  the 
Alumni  Office.  From  the  statistics,  it 
was  obvious  that  members  of  our 
class  have  been  successful  profession- 
ally, with  59  percent  now  in  senior 
management  or  higher  positions. 
These  successes  were  also  reflected 
in  our  commitments  to  marriage, 
family,  and  Tech.  The  3.2  children  per 
family  was  analyzed  as  symptomatic 
of  highly  active  libidos  —  that's  sexy 
engineers. 

Friday  night  found  early  arrivals 
renewing  fond  memories  of  favorite 
eating  spots  in  Worcester.  A  group 
composed  of  Dave  and  Fran  Gilbert, 
King  and  Dee  Webster,  Dave  and 
Carol  Bisson,  Bob  and  Jackie  Niro, 
Bob  and  Del  Labonte,  Joe  and  Rose 
Fratino,  and  Ed  and  Dianne  Shivell 
found  their  way  to  Dino's  for  Italian 
cuisine.  Dick  and  Betty  Byrnes  and 
Fabian  and  Annette  Pinkham  sought 
out  a  steak  house.  Fabian  is  the  re- 
tired (?)  member  of  our  class,  and  a 
sonderful  example  of  an  active,  vi- 
brant person.  He  said  he  just  couldn't 
find  time  to  work  now,  although  he 
does  consult.  The  Fijis  renewed  frater- 
nity bonds  at  Ed  Morocco,  where  Paul 
and  Julie  Alasso,  Elmer  and  Pat  Cor- 
ujo,  Dick  and  Gwen  Popp,  Walt  and 
Harriet  Stewart,  Hugh  and  Joan  Tufts, 
Otto  and  Joyce  Wahlrab,  and  Howie 
and  Bebe  Whittle  assembled.  They  la- 
ter returned  to  the  Hospitality  Suite 


and  reportedly  some  helped  close  it 
at  around  3:00  a.m.  Elmer  Corujo  had 
travelled  all  the  way  from  South 
America,  where  he  was  on  business, 
for  this  occasion  and  our  Reunion. 

Mentioning  those  that  travelled 
some  distances  to  attend  the  Re- 
union: Saul  and  Enola  Kabbani  ar- 
rived from  Jidda,  Saudi  Arabia.  Lee 
presented  him  with  a  can  of  oil  at  the 
Banquet.  Saul  in  turn  made  some  per- 
tinent remarks  about  the  oil  problem 
and  his  country.  Hank  and  Alberta 
Strage  came  in  from  London  and  were 
joined  by  their  son,  who  is  attending 
Colby  College.  Hank's  executive  posi- 
tion with  McKinsey  &  Co.  makes 
him  a  regular  visitor  the  the  U.S. 

In  summary,  when  you  add  the 
familiar  names  of  Owen  Allen,  Dick 
Linquist,  Clayton  Brown,  Harry  Cha- 
pell,  Frank  Ganari,  Adrian  Horovitz, 
George  Idles,  George  Kay,  Joe  King, 
Dave  Lamarre,  Paul  London,  Russ 
Lussier,  Marvin  McCoy,  Mai  McLeod, 
Ray  Naudin,  Werner  Neupert,  Larry 
Sanborn,  Gordon  Walters,  and  Walt 
Dziura  (and  their  wives  and  guests)  to 
the  list,  then  interweave  Tech  stories 
with  exchanges  about  family  and 
friends,  discussions  of  professional, 
world,  and  business  situations,  and  fi- 
nally stir  in  good  fellowship,  it  all 
equates  to  an  outstanding  and  memo- 
rable reunion.  It  was  a  super  25th, 
thanks  to  the  Committee,  the 
Alumni  Office  staff,  and  above  all, 
those  who  came.  Well  see  you  at  the 
30th  ...  or  before. 

Summer  1979 /The  WPl  Journal/ 29 


I   I     I   1     1 


I   1 


Can  you  help  us  out? 


There  are  some  700  WPI  alumni  whose  addresses  we've  somehow  lost  track  of. 
If  you  know  a  current  address  for  any  of  these  people,  would  you  please  drop 
us  a  note  and  let  us  know.  (And  if  by  some  chance  you  find  yourself  on  this 
list  even  though  you're  still  receiving  material  (like  this  Journal)  from  us,  well 
that  probably  means  our  computer  hiccupped  (#*HIC*&).  We'd  appreciate  hear- 
ing about  that,  too. 

In  either  case,  just  use  the  postage-paid  reply  card  which  is  bound  into  the 
magazine. 

P.S.  If  you  don't  happen  to  know  any  of  these  addresses,  please  feel  free  to  use 
the  card  to  give  us  some  information  about  yourself  —  your  personal  and  fam- 
ily life,  what's  going  on  with  your  career,  anything  that  you  might  want  your 
classmates  to  read  about  in  "Your  Class  and  Others." 

Louis  D.  Soloway,  '35 
Joseph  A.  Sukaskas,  '35 
Russell  H.  Wood,  '35 
William  F.  Atwood,  Jr.,  '36 
Thomas  J.  Healey,  Jr.,  '36 
William  Miseveth,  '36 
Frank  Ellsworth,  '37 
Roland  O.  Farrar,  '37 
James  F.  Swartwout,  Jr.,  '37 
Russell  Jennings,  '38 


P.P.S.  Thanks  a  lot  for  your  help. 


James  H.  Clancy,  '90 
Frederic  H.  Leland,  '95 
Robert  H.  Taylor,  '95 
Edward  L.  Cullen,  '96 
Charles  V.  Walter,  '96 
Edward  G.  Beckwith,  '97 
Juan  Irigoyen,  '00 
Roy  G.  Lewis,  '00 
Harry  W.  F  Dunklee,  '01 

Winfred  M.  Adams,  '02 
Chester  A.  Bacon,  '03 
Herbert  W.  Tufts,  '03 
Elipidio  Del.  Werneck,  '03 
Manuel  G.  Rosado,  '05 
Ralph  S.  Forsstedt,  '06 
Walter  P.  Ingham,  '06 
George  G.  Whitney,  '07 
Elliott  A.  Allen,  '08 
Victor  E.  Friden,  '09 

Stephen  M.  Poutier,  '10 
James  F.  Thompson,  '10 
Martin  H.  Jachens,  '11 
Arvid  I.  Peterson,  '11 
William  I.  Randall,  '11 
D.  Blair  Foster,  '12 
Royal  B.  Libby,  '12 
Robert  W  Mungall,  '12 
Franklin  Wyman,  '12 
Stanley  M.  Gunn,  '13 

Charles  O.  Snow,  '13 
Edward  H.  Vance,  '13 
Harry  D.  Stephens,  '14 
Warren  L.  Ellis, '15 
John  W.  Gleason,  '15 
Gilbert  M.  Ireland,  '16 
Joaquim  de  R.  Junqueira, 
Raymond  H.  Page,  '16 
Herbert  C.  Kelly,  '17 
Rupert  C.  Pomeroy,  '17 

Walter  I.  Stearns,  '17 
Edward  L.  Anton,  '18 
Lewis  F.  Lionvale,  '18 
Frank  J.  Murphy,  '18 
James  E.  Arnold,  '19 


16 


Hans  E.  Anderson,  '21 
George  A.  Bijur,  '21 
Milton  W.  Graff,  '21 
Joseph  F.  Scanlan,  '21 
Joseph  T.  Fanning,  '22 

Francis  W.  Harney,  '22 
Edmond  G.  Reed,  '23 
Sidney  H.  Avery,  '24 
Richard  F.  Whitcomb,  '24 
Kenneth  G.  Broman,  '25 
Tzu-Hzu  Chou,  '25 
Charles  E.  Crang,  '25 
John  J.  Hynes,  '25 
Thomas  F.  Plummer,  '25 
George  C.  Chow,  '27 

Yat  W.  Chow,  '27 
Ronald  E.  Jones,  '27 
Maxwell  L.  Stoughton,  '27 
Gordon  N.  McColley,  '28 
Leo  J.  Melican,  '28 
Allerton  R.  Cushman,  '29 
Alvar  O.  Ericson,  '30 
Irving  Joseph,  '30 
Paul  R.  Nelson,  '30 
Arthur  F.  Pierce,  Jr.,  '30 

Charles  K.  Aldrich,  '31 
Francis  O.  Carlstrom,  '31 
Jay  M.  Harpell  Saigon  (id),  '31 
Arthur  B.  Brainerd,  Jr.,  '32 
Edward  F  Donohue,  '32 
George  E.  Oman,  '32 
Frederick  R.  Asserson,  '33 
Ellis  R.  Brown,  '33 
Stephen  S.  Haynes,  '33 
Wright  H.  Manvel,  '33 

John  J.  Molloy,  Jr.,  '33 
Charles  H.  Newsome,  '33 
William  A.  Michalek,  '34 
George  W.  Axelby,  '35 
Robert  M.  Cape,  '35 
Clayton  G.  Cleverly,  Jr.,  '35 
Raymond  G.  Desrochers,  '35 
Frank  O.  Holmes,  Jr.,  '35 
George  A.  Mitchell,  '35 
Alvaro  A.  Silva,  '35 


30 /The  WPI  Journal / Summer  1979 


Samuel  A.  A.  Aaron,  '39 
S.  Richard  Abbott,  '39 
Irving  W.  Forde,  '39 
Robert  J.  Hamilton,  '39 
Laurence  M.  Howarth,  '39 
John  W.  Hughes,  '39 
Fred  J.  Kraemer,  Jr.,  '39 
Raymond  B.  Piper,  '39 
Charles  S.  Stevens,  '39 
Lennart  Brune,  '40 

Robert  J.  Cannon,  '40 
Rolfe  G.  Johnson,  '40 
Joseph  J.  Platukis,  '40 
Bernard  Polonsky,  '40 
Willard  J.  Riddick,  Jr.,  '40 
Harry  E.  Stirling,  '40 
Alfred  F.  Andersen,  '41 
Burgess  P.  Brownson,  '41 
Rev  Edward  G  Jacober,  '41 
John  F.  McElroy,  '41 

Paul  G.  Nystrom,  '41 
Jerome  E.  Schread,  '41 
Frederick  S.  Sherwin,  '41 
Chamroon  Tishyanandana,  '41 
Morris  C.  Chu,  '42 
Alan  Crowell,  '42 
Burton  Franklin,  '42 
David  L.  Hartwell,  '42 
Kenneth  T  Hunt,  '42 
William  S.  Allan,  Jr.,  '43 

Alexander  J.  Belmonte,  '43 
George  Cagen,  '43 
Everett  W.  Dunlap,  '43 
Carl  E.  Hartbower,  '43 
James  L.  Loom  is,  Jr.,  '43 
Edwin  H.  Matasik,  '43 
Clifford  B.  Moller,  '43 
Harold  E.  O'Malley,  '43 
Marshall  B.  Raybin,  '43 
Dr.  George  P.  Scott,  '43 


Louis  J.  Baldini,  '44 
Richard  T.  Brown,  '44 
Capt.  Alan  C.  Gault,  '44 
Peter  E.  Talley,  '44 
George  E.  Titterton,  '44 
Harrison  Bragdon,  '45 
Donald  M.  Campbell,  '45 
Cmdr.  Kenneth  B.  Hofstra,  '45 
Clifford  E.  Lanigan,  '45 
Leonard  F.  Moore,  '45 

Alvi  T  Twing,  Jr.,  '45 
Philip  S.  Adams,  '46 
Irwin  G.  Benkert,  '46 
Gaetano  Biuso,  '46 
John  M.  Considine,  '46 
Anthony  L.  Daoundakis,  '46 
Charles  J.  Gose,  Jr.,  '46 
Robert  N.  Gregoroff,  '46 
Christopher  A.  Herbert,  '46 
William  J.  Kelly,  '46 

Dr.  Myer  Krulfeld,  '46 
Alan  Y.  Levine,  '46 
John  M.  Longo,  '46 
Philip  R.  Loshin,  '46 
James  J.  Malley,  Jr.,  '46 
Dr.  Karl  M.  Mayer,  '46 
Howard  F.  McCormick,  Jr.,  '46 
Allan  W.  McCoy,  '46 
Elton  K.  Morice,  Jr.,  '46 
John  C.  Osborn,  '46 

Alvin  M.  Ross,  '46 
Sidney  S.  Sperling,  '46 
Jose  R.  Biamon,  '47 
August  L.  Flotteron,  Jr.,  '47 
Roland  H.  Guay,  '47 
William  Longmuir,  '47 
Vaikunth  C.  Thakar,  '47 
Benjamin  B.  Barker,  Jr.,  '48 
David  I.  Caplan,  '48 
Harold  J.  Devlin,  '48 

Julian  H.  Jacobs,  '48 
Birger  D.  Lund,  Jr.,  '48 
Paul  J.  Martin,  '48 
Joseph  R.  McBride,  '48 
William  R.  Olha,  '48 
Shou  L.  Pan,  '48 
Frederick  R.  Paul,  '48 
Franklin  J.  Powers,  '48 
Per  Roed,  '48 
Leonard  D.  Rood,  '48 

Kenneth  E.  Whatmore,  '48 
Thomas  H.  Wyllie,  Jr.,  '48 
Kinsley  A.  Ball,  Jr.,  '49 
Elmer  R.  Griffith,  Jr.,  '49 
Frederick  S.  Jenkins,  Jr.,  '49 
John  E.  McCarthy,  '49 
Tsu-Yen  Mei,  '49 
Capt.  James  B.  Morin,  '49 
William  H.  B  Parr,  '49 
Harry  J.  Rogers,  '49 

Vernon  H.  Russell,  '49 
Joseph  T.  Starr,  '49 
John  R.  Adams,  '50 
Philip  L.  Barbaccia,  '50 
Fred  A.  Carmody,  '50 
Gerald  Fleit,  '50 
Morey  L.  Hodgman,  '50 
Robert  L.  Tagen,  '50 
Guido  Biagini,  '51 
George  M.  Cooley,  '51 


Ellsworth  R.  Cramer,  '51 
Constantino  Mustakis,  '51 
Mehmet  R.  Ozbas,  '51 
Ratanshaw  K.  Patel,  '51 
Richard  E.  Snyder,  '51 
Mustafa  T.  Sonmez,  '51 
Dick  van  den  Berge,  '51 
David  F.  Wright,  '51 
Bernard  G.  Ziobrowski,  '51 
Robert  C.  Henegan,  '52 

Jack  Y.  T  Kwan,  '52 
Edmund  M.  Luzgauskas,  '52 
Lysle  P.  Parlett,  '52 
Bernard  J.  Petrillo,  '52 
Yasar  Yurdal,  '52 
Stanley  C.  Andrukonis,  '53 
Thomas  J.  Bagley,  '53 
Karl  H.  Bissell,  Jr.,  '53 
Harrison  V.  Carter,  Jr.,  '53 
Martin  R.  Cohen,  '53 

Ernest  E.  Demar,  '53 
Joseph  A.  Holmes,  '53 
Leroy  W.  Madison,  '53 
Carl  W.  Martilla,  '53 
Hugh  R.  McLaughlin,  '53 
David  C.  Morrison,  '53 
Richard  W.  Morton,  '53 
Paul  C.  Murray,  '53 
Harold  G.  Rackett,  '53 
Philip  R.  Randall,  '53 

George  L.  Rousseau,  '53 
Dr.  Wu  Mei  Yao,  '53 
Albert  L.  Zuck,  '53 
James  Hamilton,  '54 
Ernest  R.  Hooks,  '54 
Souren  Jaffarian,  Jr.,  '54 
Framrose  M.  Karani,  '54 
Abdul  H.  Kazi,  '54 
James  F  King,  '54 
Roy  G.  Lent,  '54 

Jack  K.  Mackowiak,  '54 
Robert  V.  Mahon,  '54 
William  J.  Mahota,  Jr.,  '54 
Robert  R.  McMillan,  '54 
Leonard  V.  Mello,  '54 
Robert  S.  Nahas,  '54 
James  E.  Clampett,  '55 
Louis  A.  Larini,  '55 
Markar  A.  D.  Markarian,  '55 
Richard  C.  Oldham,  '55 

Alan  F.  Petit,  '55 
Joseph  K.  Ryan,  Jr.,  '55 
Leslie  C.  Street,  '55 
Antonio  Aranguren,  '56 
Frederic  A.  Highman,  '56 
James  C.  Kubik,  '56 
John  H.  Lillibridge  III,  '56 
Juozas  Orentas,  '56 
Hebert  P.  Schoeck,  Jr.,  '56 
Christos  G.  Alex,  '57 

Lawrence  E.  Alston,  '57 
Ma]  Joseph  J  Arcari,  '57 
Santo  M.  Bramande,  '57 
James  F.  Fournier,  '57 
Frank  R.  Goodwin,  '57 
Thordur  Grondal,  '57 
Joseph  D.  Grzyb,  Jr.,  '57 
Willis  A.  Gunning,  '57 
Stanley  Hass,  '57 
Richard  F.  Heyelman,  '57 


Paul  J.  Janda,  '57 
Donald  H.  Morse,  '57 
Barrera  A.  Ramirez,  '57 
Michael  Spiegel,  '57 
Israel  Sverner,  '57 
Benjamin  G.  Uy,  '57 
Roger  R.  Billings,  '58 
William  L.  Byars  III.  '58 
Richard  H.  Campbell,  '58 
Joseph  L.  Chenail,  '58 

Robert  D.  Crooker,  '58 
T.  William  Curran,  '58 
John  F  Daly,  '58 
Robert  J.  Dunn,  '58 
Charles  G.  Fyfe,  '58 
Frank  K.  Lind,  '58 
Richard  E.  Lorenz,  '58 
Nicholas  S.  Petralias,  '58 
Dr.  Sherman  K.  Poultney,  '58 
Roger  W.  Reynolds,  '58 

Frank  A.  Seidel,  '58 
J.  Clifford  Wiersma,  '58 
Thomas  M.  Wood,  '58 
John  A.  Beede,  '59 
Alan  E.  Benson,  '59 
Fred  D.  Blonder,  '59 
Ralph  A.  Huey,  '59 
Roberto  Jaramillo,  Jr.,  '59 
James  W.  Mahoney,  '59 
Davis  C.  McLeod,  '59 

Robert  W.  Milik,  Jr.,  '59 
Robert  B.  Palmer,  '59 
Harvey  J.  Rosenfeld,  '59 
Arthur  C.  Seelye,  '59 
Ozden  Asian,  '60 
Arthur  D.  Brook,  '60 
Donald  J.  Busteed,  '60 
William  M.  Cannon,  '60 
George  V.  Cashen,  Sr,  '60 
Dr.  Jo-Chao  Chueh,  '60 

Gungor  Dagistanli,  '60 
Terrence  M.  Dupuis,  '60 
John  N.  Galian,  '60 
Richard  S.  Johnson,  '60 
Stuart  W.  Macomber,  '60 
Frank  R.  Materese,  '60 
Edward  D.  McGrath,  '60 
Capt.  Allen  R.  Miliefsky,  '60 
Paul  C.  Miller,  '60 
Robert  M.  Neal,  '60 

John  V.  O'Keefe,  '60 
Kenneth  Roberts,  '60 
Peter  H.  Schneider,  '60 
Capt.  Howard  D.  Stephenson, 
Maung  T,  Swe,  '60 
Ara  Tutunjian,  '60 
David  I.  Westling,  '60 
Lt.  J.  Warren  Alford,  '61 
Brother  Augustine  Bemis,  '61 
George  R.  Bolduc,  '61 

Kayhan  Boro,  '61 
Douglas  H.  Cormier,  '61 
Eduardo  Cruz,  '61 
Terry  W.  Donovan,  '61 
Evan  G.  Duane,  '61 
Suat  Gonen,  '61 
C  William  Hayes,  '61 
Norman  P.  Johnson,  '61 
John  W.  Kappel,  '61 
Swang  Lee-Aphon,  '61 


'60 


Steven  H.  Lerman,  '61 

Richard  A.  Levendusky,  '61 

Russell  C.  Lockwood,  Jr.,  '61 

George  Matassov,  '61 

Maung  T.  Maung,  '61 

Dr.  Timothy  C.  Meyers,  Jr.,  '61 

John  C.  Nicholson,  '61 

John  C.  Nicholson,  '61 

Gordon  B.  Phillips,  '61 

Lt.  Cdr.  Leonard  E.  Pickens,  '61 

John  A.  Rossi,  '61 
Donald  E.  Schaaf,  '61 
George  M.  Storti,  '61 
Theodore  S.  Strojny,  '61 
Dominic  E.  Tutino,  '61 
Donald  W.  Wilmot,  '61 
Maung  N.  Win,  '61 
Alfred  A.  Arterton,  '62 
Haines  J.  Boyle,  '62 
Yigit  Bozkurt,  '62 

Robert  D.  Britton,  '62 
Mehmet  I.  Can,  '62 
Victor  B.  Castellani,  '62 
William  P.  Earley,  '62 
John  S.  Golder,  '62 
Joel  L.  Gordon,  '62 
Richard  D.  Hartley,  '62 
Captain  Jackie  P  Matteus,  '62 
Robert  G.  McDonald,  '62 
Michael  A.  Moses,  '62 

Nelson  E.  Parmelee,  '62 
Richard  S.  Price,  '62 
William  H.  C.  Reinert,  '62 
Albert  M.  Rockwell,  Jr.,  '62 
Arve  Syverud,  '62 
Basat  H.  Tilkicioglu,  '62 
Raymond  M.  Akerson,  Jr.,  '63 
Paul  Y  Chan,  '63 
Thomas  W.  Greisamer,  '63 
G.  William  Hartman,  '63 

Perry  O.  Kearney,  Jr.,  '63 
Cyrille  H.  Lafrance,  '63 
Harry  P.  Mclntyre,  Jr.,  '63 
William  P.  Morrison,  '63 
Pundalik  U.  Prabhu,  '63 
Francis  E.  Spring,  Jr.,  '63 
Gordon  O.  Stearns,  '63 
Kendal  B.  Turner,  '63 
Gordon  M.  Ware,  '63 
Dr.  Paul  G.  Amazeen,  '64 

Stanley  J.  Andrysiak,  '64 
Bernard  Baron,  '64 
Krishnakumar  V.  Chaudhary,  '64 
Donald  J.  Coleman,  '64 
Victor  A.  Dushku,  '64 
Capt.  Harry  G.  Fager,  Jr.,  '64 
Robert  A.  Frenette,  '64 
William  S.  Fryer,  '64 
Geraldine  V  Geroux,  '64 
George  E.  Hammond,  '64 

William  B.  Lechmann,  '64 

Major  Clifford  M.  Macdonald,  Jr.,  '64 

Peter  C.  Trombi,  '64 

D.  Ralph  Whiterell,  '64 

John  Wofford,  Jr.,  '64 

John  T  Apostolos,  '65 

Rajkumar  K.  Bajaj,  '65 

Lt.  Desha  M.  Beamer,  '65 

Michael  W.  Boyd,  '65 

James  B.  Calvin,  '65 


Dr.  Jerry  C.  Chen,  '65 
Arthur  M.  Dickey,  '65 
Mahesh  S.  Dixet,  '65 
Aloysius  S.  Dzura,  '65 
Lt.  Robert  B.  Edwards,  '65 
Dr.  Robert  W.  Hermes,  '65 
Robert  W.  Kendrick,  '65 
Antanas  S.  Liutkus,  '65 
John  F  Madden,  Jr.,  '65 
Sunil  M.  Mehta,  '65 

Charles  F.  Merry,  '65 

Lt.  Cmdr.  George  W.  Mitschang,  '65 

James  P.  Molloy,  '65 

William  L.  Rosen,  '65 

Dennis  J.  Simanaitis,  '65 

Leo  G.  St.  Denis,  '65 

AN  H.  Ustay,  '65 

Dihp  V  Vora,  '65 

Kenneth  M.  Bell,  '66 

Stephen  Berman,  '66 

Robert  G.  Bertrand,  '66 
Satish  H.  Bhatt,  '66 
David  M.  Burwen,  '66 
Gary  P.  Cassery,  '66 
Omer  M.  Cavusoglu,  '66 
Shailesh  V  Dave,  '66 
Sharad  B.  Doshi,  '66 
Dwight  S.  Evans,  '66 
Paul  F  Flaherty,  '66 
George  H.  Flynn,  '66 

Robert  G.  Bertrand,  '66 
Satish  H.  Bhatt,  '66 
David  M.  Burwen,  '66 
Gary  P.  Cassery,  '66 
Omer  M.  Cavusoglu,  '66 
Shailesh  V.  Dave,  '66 
Sharad  B.  Doshi,  '66 
Dwight  S.  Evans,  '66 
Paul  F  Flaherty,  '66 
George  H.  Flynn,  '66 

Paul  F  Glodis,  '66 
Roberto  Huyke-Luigi,  '66 
Stephen  K.  Kaiser,  '66 
Ahmet  G.  Kozanoglu,  '66 
Gerald  W.  Lucas,  '66 
Ahmet  Mavitan,  '66 
Orlando  R.  Mendez,  '66 
Errold  F.  Moody,  Jr.,  '66 
John  A.  Nordstrom,  '66 
1st  Lt.  Geoffrey  Potter,  '66 

James  F.  Randall,  '66 
Albert  W.  Robinson,  '66 
Edgar  P.  Rundlett,  Jr.,  '66 
Ramanik  N.  Savla,  '66 
Raymond  A.  Wheeler,  '66 
Subhashchandra  N.  Amin,  '67 
James  R.  Braithwaite,  '67 
Athanassios  H.  Canatsoulis,  '67 
Mahendra  K.  Dave,  '67 
Byron  L.  Dennison,  '67 

Dhaval  R.  Kikani,  '67 
Mitchell  P.  Koziol,  '67 
Leonard  J.  Lamberti,  '67 
Mohmedjarid  M.  Malek,  '67 
David  R.  Malley,  '67 
Ajit  M.  Mody,  '67 
Rajendra  M.  Pandya,  '67 
Kenneth  R.  Prefontaine,  '67 
Herbert  S.  Riddle,  Jr.,  '67 
2nd  Lt.  Richard  A.  Shaw,  '67 


» 


I 


Summer  1919 /The  WPI  journal/ 31 


1909 


Lester  Carter  and  his  wife  marked  their 
56th  wedding  anniversary  on  May  2nd.  He 
says,  "Health  is  fair  with  arthritis.  Wife  is 
also  fair.  Graduated  70  years  in  June." 


1921 

Secretary: 
Carleton  F  Bolles 
Green  Pastures,  RFD 
Walpole,  NH 
03608 

Rhea  and  Edward  Rose  celebrated  their 
57th  wedding  anniversary  on  February  21 
1979. 


1923 


Charles  Fram,  editor  and  general  manager 
of  the  magazine,  Southern  Printer,  was 
honored  in  November  by  the  Ernest  H. 
Abernethy  Publishing  Company,  Inc.,  on 
the  occasion  of  his  50th  year  with  the  firm. 
Charlie  is  a  corporate  vice  president  and 
also  serves  as  editor  and  general  manager 
of  Southern  Jeweler.  The  celebration  was 
held  at  the  Piedmont  Driving  Club  in  At- 
lanta, Ga. 


1928 


Secretaries  Representative: 

G iff ord  T  Cook  Gabriel  O  Bedard 

Rt  3  Box  294  Keyes  Perry  Acres       1 32  Marsden  St. 
Harpers  Ferry,  WV  Springfield,  MA 

25425  01109 

Theodore  J  Englund 
70  Eastwood  Rd 
Shrewsbury,  MA 
01545 

The  Winslow  C.  Wentworths  celebrated 
their  5oth  wedding  anniversary  on  March 
23rd  in  Turners  Falls,  Mass.  Mrs. 
Wentworth  graduated  from  Westfield 
Normal  School  and  taught  in  the  city  of 
Westfield.  Her  husband,  who  is  retired 
from  Western  Massachusetts  Electric  Co., 
is  a  former  chairman  of  the  Greenfield 
Co-operative  Bank  board  of  directors. 
Presently,  he  serves  as  president  of  the 
Franklin  County  Home  Care  Corp.  and  as  a 
trustee  of  Farren  Memorial  Hospital.  The 
Wentworths  have  two  sons,  three  grand- 
children, and  five  greatgrandchildren. 


1914 


John  Desmond  of  Rochester,  N.Y.,  writes 
that  he  celebrated  his  89th  birthday  on 

May  3rd Chester  Inman  has  received  a 

60-year  plaque  from  the  American  Society 
for  Metals.  For  34  years  he  has  been  a 
continuous  member  of  the  Worcester 
Chapter  of  ASM,  and  is  chairman  emeritus 
of  the  executive  committee.  He  is  a  fellow 
of  the  Society.  ASM  has  over  42 ,000  mem- 
bers. 


1919 

Secretary: 
Edwin  W  Bemis 
10DrydenRd 
Brick  Town,  NJ 
08723 

Ray  Heffernan,  chairman  of  the  board  of 
the  H.H.  Brown  Shoe  Company,  New  York 
City,  received  an  honorary  doctor  of 
humane  letters  in  May  from  Mercy  Col- 
lege, Dobbs  Ferry,  N.Y.  Mr.  Heffernan  has 
been  responsible  for  the  growth  of  the  firm 
from  a  small  company  to  one  of  the  leaders 
of  the  shoe  industry.  H.H.  Brown's  sales 
exceeded  $100  million  last  year.  Long  as- 
sociated with  higher  education,  he  has 
served  on  the  boards  of  several  distin- 
guished institutions.  He  is  also  active  in 
Westchester  civic  circles  and  belongs  to  the 
board  of  trustees  of  St.  Vincent's  Hospital 
in  Harrison.  He  is  a  member  of  the  Presi- 
dent's Advisory  Council  at  WPI. 


1926 

Secretary 
Arthur  C  Parsons 
51  AndoverSt 
Worcester,  MA 
01606 

Ken  Archibald  continues  as  executive  vice 
president  of  the  Springfield  (Vt.)  Chamber 
of  Commerce,  a  post  he  has  held  for  ten 
years.  Previously,  he  was  with  New  York 
Telephone  for  41  years. . . .  A.H.  Wendin 
recently  helped  build  a  replica  of  "The  Spirit 
of  St.  Louis"  (III),  his  contribution  being 
largely  the  wooden  wing  frames.  Now 
summering  in  San  Diego,  he  expects  one  of 
the  highlights  of  his  vacation  will  be  seeing 
the  "Spirit"  fly.  He  is  also  planning  a  trip 
East  for  a  week  at  the  Creative  Problem 
Solving  Institute  in  Buffalo,  a  stop  in  Fair- 
field, Conn.,  to  see  family  and  friends,  and 
other  stops  in  Worcester  and  Rockport, 
Maine.  Last  winter  he  vacationed  on  the 
beach  at  Puerto  Penasco,  Mexico. 


1927 

Secretary 
William  M  Rauha 
4WhiffletreeRd. 
West  Yarmouth,  MA 
02673 

Harold  Eastman  writes:  "I  wish  I  might 
have  been  on  the  Hill  under  the  WPI  Plan. 


1930 

Secretary  Representative: 

Carl  W  Backstrom  Carl  W,  Backstrom 

113  Winifred  Ave 
Worcester,  MA 
01602 

Charles  Cole  writes  he  is  "enjoying  retire- 
ment in  Florida  with  summers  on  Cape 
Cod."  .  .  .  Our  champion  bicycle  rider,  Ed 
"Foxy  Grandpa"  Delano  was  struck  down 
by  a  truck  during  a  time  trial  last  fall  and 
received  a  broken  leg.  Ed  informed  his 
doctors  that  he  intends  to  continue  his 
racing  career.  The  medics  did  a  natural 
bionics  job  on  his  leg  by  removing  a  slab  of 
bone  from  his  hip  and  attaching  it  as  rein- 
forcement to  his  leg  bone.  Competitors  will 
be  "pleased"  to  hear  that  this  arrangement 
may  well  furnish  extra  pedaling  strength  to 
the  leg.  Ed,  healing  well,  intends  to  pedal 
3100  miles  to  his  50th  reunion  in  1980.  This 
ought  to  inspire  the  rest  of  the  class  to 
come  to  reunion  to  see  this  remarkable 
rider      .  Daniel  O'Grady  has  been  ap- 
pointed chairman  of  a  drive  to  endow 
principal  players'  chairs  for  the  Cape  Cod 
Symphony  Orchestra  during  the  orchestra 
association's  1979  Sustaining  Fund  Cam- 
paign. Dan  is  the  retired  general  commer- 
cial manager  and  executive  assistant  to  the 
president  of  New  England  Telephone  Co. 
He  is  a  trustee  emeritus  of  WPI,  a  member 
of  the  board  of  the  American  (and  Mas- 
sachusetts) Lung  Association,  president  of 
the  Woods  Hole  Golf  Club,  and  a  trustee  of 
the  Cape  Cod  Symphony. 


32 /The  WPI  journal / Summer  1979 


1932 

Representative: 
Howard  P  Lekberg 
RFD  115  Main  St 
East  Douglas,  MA 
01516 

Jan  Dowgielewicz,  formerly  with  the  Mas- 
sachusetts Department  of  Public  Works, 
has  retired.  .  .  .  Russ  Purrington,  who 
retired  from  the  Northeast  Utilities  System 
office  in  Breslin,  Conn.,  six  years  ago  as 
supervisor  of  maintenance  of  steam  and 
hydro  plants,  writes  that  he  is  currently 
doing  lots  of  fishing.  He  has  a  28-foot  cabin 
cruiser  which  he  keeps  at  Niantic,  Conn. 


1935 


1939 


1933 


Secretary 

Representative 

Sumner  B  Sweetser 

Robert  E  Ferguson 

100  Pine  Grove  Ave 

36  Lake  Ave 

Summit,  NJ 

Leicester,  MA 

07901 

01524 

Harold  Hammer  says,  "Enjoying  Florida 
living  very  much."  Harold,  a  resident  of 
Winter  Haven,  reports  that  his  grand- 
daughter, Kim,  graduated  from  Baypath  in 
May.  His  oldest  grandson,  Jody  Weath- 
erwax,  is  at  Virginia  Military  Institute  and 
has  broken  the  school  track  record  for  1 500 
meters  three  times  (Best  time:  3:48).  .  . . 
John  Henrickson  and  his  wife,  Evelyn,  are 
playing  lots  of  golf  at  Sun  City  Center  in 
Florida.  They  also  go  fishing  and  play 
bridge  with  "many  friendly  people  from  all 
walks  of  life  in  the  U.S.A."  John  serves  as 
chairman  of  the  Consumer  Affairs  Commit- 
tee of  the  Home  Owners  Association.  .  . . 
Albert  White,  Jr.  has  several  hobbies,  one 
of  which  is  to  walk  fast  about  ten  miles  a 
day.  He  is  retired  from  the  federal  Civil 
Service. 


1934 


Secretary: 

Dwight  J  Dwinell 
Box  265 

Brownmgton,  VT 
05860 


Representative 
Dwight  J  Dwinell 


C.  Standish  Beebe,  who  retired  from  Pfizer 
Inc.  after  32  years  as  plant  engineer  and 
construction  manager,  is  the  newly  ap- 
pointed executive  coordinator  of  the  New 
England  Construction  Users  Council.  He 
uses  his  home  as  his  office. 


Secretary: 

Representative 

Secretary 

Representative: 

Raymond  F.  Starrett 

Plummer  Wiley 

Charles  H  Amidon,  Jr 

C  John  Lindegren,  Jr 

Continental  Country  Club 

2906  Silver  Hill  Ave 

636  Salisbury  St 

21  Prospect  St 

Box  104 

Baltimore,  MD 

Holden,  MA 

Shrewsbury,  MA 

Wild  wood,  FL 

21207 

01520 

01545 

32785 

Karl  Bohaker  has  retired  from  the  Electrical 
Products  Croup  of  AMF,  Inc.,  and  has 
moved  to  Pitman,  N.J. .  .  .  Edward  Cove, 
who  has  been  retired  for  several  years,  says 
that  there  is  plenty  to  do  on  Cape  Cod  the 
year  'round.  "There  is  no  shortage  of  ac- 
tivities." 

Sam  Hakam  says  he's  "politically  active 
in  order  to  get  some  corrective  legislation 
on  the  products  liability  nightmare."  . .  . 
Roger  Lawton  is  retired  from  Electric  Boat 
in  Groton,  Conn.  Currently,  he  manages 
the  Lawton  "tree  farm"  in  Athol,  Mass., 
and  enjoys  golf,  tennis,  and  skiing.  He 
plans  to  continue  his  retirement  in  the 
Mystic,  Conn,  area,  where  he  has  lived  for 
24  years. 


1936 


Secretary 

Harold  F.  Henrickson 

1406  Fox  Hill  Dr 

Sun  City  Center,  FL 

33570 


Representative 
Walter  C  Dahlstrom 
9  Jewett  Terr 
Worcester,  MA 
01605 


Roslyn  and  N.  Robert  Levine  took  a  trip  to 
Israel  in  May. . . .  George  Wood  retired  last 
October  from  the  Homelite  Division  of 
Textron,  Inc.  He  enjoys  photography  and 
travel. 


1937 


Secretary: 
Richard  J  Lyman 
10HillcrestRd 
Medfield,  MA 
02052 


Representative: 
Richard  J.  Lyman 


Now  retired,  Carl  Otto  is  having  a  "life  of 
sunshine,  hunting  and  fishing."  .  .  .  Says 
Raymond  Schuh,  "Retirement  can't  be 
beat." 


1938 


Secretary. 

Representative 

Emory  K  Rogers 

Albert  L  Delude,  Jr 

141  Lanyon  Dr. 

261  Garden  City  Dr 

Cheshire,  CT 

Cranston,  Rl 

06410 

02910 

Carl  Keyser  is  retired,  and  is  an  "author, 
more  or  less."  He  lives  in  North  Hampton, 
N.H.,  with  his  wife,  Dorothy,  whom  he  lists 
as  his  "employer." 

Edward  Roszko  retired  as  plant  superin- 
tendent of  production  in  the  Petchem  area 
of  du  Punt  on  Jan.  31st.  After  receiving  his 
master's  in  chemical  engineering  from  WPI 
in  1 941 ,  he  joined  du  Pont  in  the  analytical 
group  at  Jackson  Laboratory.  In  1942  he 
moved  to  the  semi-works  operation.  Dur- 
ing World  War  II,  he  was  a  supervisor  in  the 
chlorine  area.  In  1 949  he  transferred  to 
camphor.  Ed  moved  to  T.E.L.  as  a  super- 
visor in  the  batch  processes  in  1950,  and  in 
1 951  he  was  assigned  as  coordinator  of 
design  and  start-up  of  the  T.E.L.  continu- 
ous plant.  He  was  made  senior  supervisor 
at  "A"  plant  in  1953.  Also,  in  1965,  he  was 
assigned  to  the  du  Pont  of  Canada  project 
to  coordinate  design  and  start-up  of  the 
lead  alkyl  plant.  In  1966  he  returned  to 
Jackson  Laboratory,  where  he  was  made  a 
division  head.  He  became  chief  supervisor 
of  the  T.E.L.  area  in  1968.  In  1970  he  was 
promoted  to  superintendent  of  the 
Chamber  Works  Power  Division.  Two  years 
later  he  was  named  superintendent  of  the 
Petroleum  Chemicals  Manufacturing  Divi- 
sion. 

Ed  has  been  active  in  scouting  and  civic 
affairs  in  Upper  Penns  Neck.  He  was  chair- 
man of  the  Upper  Penns  Neck  Sewerage 
Authority,  and  a  member  of  the  Technical 
Advisory  Committee  for  the  Deepwater 
Regional  Treatment  Facility.  He  belongs  to 
the  Rotary  Club  and  is  on  the  board  of  the 
Salem  Community  College  Foundation. 
During  retirement,  Ed  plans  to  travel,  read, 
golf,  and  garden. 

Walter  Abel  has  found  a  new  way  to 
improve  his  skiing  technique.  He  straps  to 
his  chest  a  small  tape  player,  which  plays 
soothing  music  while  he  is  skiing.  He  claims 
that  this  method  will  turn  a  novice  into  an 
intermediate  in  a  weekend.  Among  his 
favorite  tunes  are  "East  Side,  West  Side" 
and  "Red  Roses  For  A  Blue  Lady."  Usually 
other  skiers,  hearing  Abel's  music,  follow 
him  Pied  Piper  fashion  down  the  slopes. 
"Skiing  to  music  makes  you  lose  track  of 
the  day,"  he  says.  "Back  at  work  on  Mon- 
day morning,  you're  ready  to  fight 
wildcats!" 


Recently,  Amet  Powell  served  as  an  ACS 
councilor  at  the  American  Chemical  Society 
and  Chemical  Society  of  Japan  joint  meet- 
ing in  Honolulu.  Attending  the  interna- 
tional conference  were  chemical  society 
representatives  from  Canada,  Australia, 
and  New  Zealand.  Twelve  delegates  came 
from  China,  nine  of  whom  gave  papers. 


Summer  1979 /The  WPI  Journal/ 33 


i94i 


Secretary: 
Russell  W  Parks 
7250  Brill  Rd 
Cincinnati,  OH 
45243 


Representative: 
Robert  A  Muir 
529  Pearl  St. 
Reading,  MA 
01867 


Walter  Kennedy  was  recently  promoted  to 
assistant  to  the  general  manager,  plastic 
products  group,  bag  division,  at  Union 
Camp  Corp.,  Wayne,  N.J.  He  had  been 
assistant  to  the  general  manager  in  the 
honeycomb  division.  In  his  new  post,  he 
will  continue  to  be  headquartered  at  Union 
Camp's  corporate  offices  in  Wayne.  ...  Ed 
Pacek  is  a  director  and  public  relations  man 
at  Rocky  Point  Park  in  Warwick,  R.I. 


I942 

Representative: 
Norman  A  Wilson 
17  Cranbrook  Dr 
Holden,  MA 
01520 

Wilbur  Day's  family  has  "increased  by  two 
new  daughters-in-law  and  one  new 
granddaughter."  He  has  a  total  of  four 
grandchildren. . .  .  James  Houlihan  was 
recently  appointed  vice  president  of  re- 
search and  development  for  the  Milton 
Bradley  Game  and  Educational  Divisions  in 
Springfield,  Mass.  In  1952  he  started  with 
the  company  as  chief  chemist.  As  manager 
of  game  development  and,  later,  as  direc- 
tor of  research  and  development  and  direc- 
tor of  the  Advanced  Research  and  Devel- 
opment Department,  he  has  been  respon- 
sible for  many  new  product  introductions. 
During  World  War  II,  he  was  a  weather 
forecaster  in  the  Navy.  Currently,  he  is  a 
lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Naval  Reserve,  and 
teaches  weather  forecasting  in  the  U.S. 
Power  Squadron. 

David  Nyquist  writes  that  he  is  "still 
involved  with  ports  and  ships  as  assistant 
general  manager  of  the  Chicago  Regional 
Port  District.". . .  Frank  Sama,  who  is  retired 
from  Turbo  Power  &  Marine  Systems,  Inc., 
says  that  he  is  enjoying  part-time  work 
with  his  son  in  the  lumber  and  building 
supply  business  in  Maine.  He  is  proud  of  his 
two  granddaughters,  ages  1 3  and  1 1 . 


1943 


Representative: 

Behrends  Messer,  Jr 

Mobil  Research  &  Development 

PO.  Box  1026 

Princeton,  NJ 

08540 


Donald  Russell's  daughter,  Nancy,  the 
oldest  of  four  children,  is  married  and  is  in 
public  health  consulting  work  in  Menlo 
Park,  Calif.  Bob,  the  youngest,  is  an  honor 


student  at  Wentworth  Institute. . . .  Perry 
Fraser  now  serves  as  senior  development 
engineer  at  Mechanical  Technology  Incor- 
porated. He  is  located  in  Scotia,  N.Y. 


1944 


Secretary: 
JohnG  Underhill 
6706  Barkworth  Dr 
Dallas,  TX 
75248 


Representative 
John  A  Bjork 
1 1  Tylee  Ave 
Worcester,  MA 
01605 


^Married:  Erling  Lagerholm  to  Emilie  W. 
Hofmann  recently  in  Cambridge,  Mas- 
sachusetts. Mrs.  Lagerholm  graduated 
from  Vassar  and  is  a  yoga  teacher  in  Wes- 
ton. Her  husband  is  a  real  estate  counselor 
for  Norwood  Group  International,  Inc.  of 
Boston. 

Continuing  with  GE,  Floyd  Smith  is  a 
sales  representative  for  the  firm's  lamp 
division  in  Greenville,  S.C.  .  .  .  George 
Williams  has  been  promoted  to  manager 
of  fuels,  electric  operations,  at  New  En- 
gland Gas  &  Electric  System,  headquar- 
tered at  Canal  Electric  in  Sandwich,  Mass. 
He  joined  NEGEA  Service  Corp.,  Cam- 
bridge, several  years  after  "retiring"  from 
Bailey  Meter  Co.-Babcock  &  Wilcox.  In 
1977  he  was  promoted  to  mechanical 
engineer. 


1945 


Representative: 

Robert  E  Scott 

Allendale  Mutual  Insurance  Co 

PO  Box  7500 

Johnstown,  Rl 

02919 

Robert  Buck  writes:  "Planning  on  retiring 
from  the  government  at  the  end  of  June." 
...  Dr.  Carl  Clark,  a  physical  scientist,  has 
been  named  inventor  contact  for  the  Office 
of  Passenger  Research,  a  branch  of  the 
National  Highway  Traffic  Safety  Adminis- 
tration in  Washington,  D.C.  He  is  con- 
cerned with  the  redesign  of  the  au- 
tomobile. .      William  Densmore  is  the 
newly  appointed  vice  president  of  abrasive 
operations  in  the  U.S.  and  Canada  for 
Norton  Co.  He  had  been  vice  president  and 
general  manager  of  the  grinding  wheel 
division  since  1971 .  In  1946,  he  started  as 
an  industrial  engineer  at  Norton.  He  is  a 
registered  professional  engineer,  and  a 
member  of  the  Management  Board  of  Ad- 
visors at  WPI.  .  .  .  Charles  Shattuck  is  a 
manager  of  manufacturing  engineering  at 
Nashua  (N.H.)  Corp. 


1946 

Secretaries:  Representative: 

M  Daniel  Lacedonia  George  R  Morin,  Jr 

106  Ridge  Rd  81  Park  Ave 

East  Longmeadow,  MA  Keene,  NH 

01028  03431 

George  H  Conley,  Jr 
213  Stevens  Dr 
Pittsburgh,  PA 
15236 

Eugene  Ritter  holds  the  post  of  plant  man- 
ager at  Lehn  &  Fink  in  Toledo,  Ohio. 


1948 


Secretary 
Paul  E.  Evans 
69ClairmontSt 
Longmeadow,  MA 
01106 


Representative 
John  J  Concordia 
36  Summer  St 
Shrewsbury,  MA 
01545 


David  Anthony  has  left  Texas  Instruments 
to  "semi-retire."  He  has  cut  his  daily  com- 
mute from  1 50  to  four  miles,  and  is  now 
doing  some  drafting  and  estimating  for  a 
local  (Columbus,  Texas)  building  contrac- 
tor. . . .  Lawrence  Hine  says  he  has  "No 
news,  really,  but  could  make  so  many 
comments  on  our  contemporary  American 
society  that  it  would  fill  a  book."  He  has 
three  daughters,  one  24  and  married; 
another  21  and  a  college  senior;  and  the 
last,  1 6,  a  high  school  sophomore,  who  has 
just  gotten  her  driver's  license.  "To  say  the 
least,  their  world  is  not  the  same  as  mine." 

Norman  Lourie  holds  the  post  of  vice 
president  of  engineering  at  Wang 
Laboratories  in  Lowell,  Mass.,  with  major 
facilities  throughout  Middlesex  County. 
According  to  Lourie,  Wang  is  enjoying  a 
prosperous  growth  in  both  small  and 
medium  business  computers,  as  well  as 
word  processing  systems.  .  .  .  Currently, 
Lemuel  Manchester  is  a  senior  nuclear 
engineer  at  Combustion  Engineering,  Inc., 
in  Windsor,  Conn. 


1949 


Secretary: 

Representative: 

Howard  J  Green 

lames  F  O'Regan 

1  Kenilworth  Rd 

17  Hundreds  Rd 

Worcester,  MA 

Westboro,  MA 

01602 

01581 

Clifton  Nickerson  is  now  president  of  Im- 
ages Unlimited  in  West  Boylston,  Mass.  He 
has  a  slide  library  of  photo  decor  for  dec- 
orating corporate  offices,  hospitals,  etc., 
with  photo  murals.  .  .  John  Saunier  is  a 
technical  recruiter  at  Dunnhill  in  Parlin,  N.J. 


34 /The  WPI  Journal / Summer  1979 


Businessperson  of  the 
Year 


JULIUS  PALLEY,  '46,  the  "mastermind  of  Union  Place" 
in  Worcester,  has  been  named  recipient  of  Worcester 
Magazine's  Businessperson  of  the  Year  Award.  In  its  trib- 
ute to  Palley,  the  magazine  recently  stated:  "If  our  cities 
are  to  continue  to  flourish  and  not  fall  back  into  decay,  it 
will  be  because  of  men  like  Julius  Palley,  who  have  a 
sense  of  pride  in  their  city  and  who  seek  to  help  others 
achieve  what  they  themselves  have  achieved." 

Only  three  short  years  ago,  Union  Place  consisted  of 
two  fortress-like  factory  buildings,  decaying  from  the  in- 
side out  but  conveniently  located  just  off  bustling  Lincoln 
Square  in  downtown  Worcester.  Sensing  the  potential  of 
the  complex,  Julius  and  his  brother  Arthur,  owners  of 
Commonwealth  Stationers,  bought  the  property  and  began 
the  process  of  converting  it  to  the  city's  first  privately  fi- 
nanced urban  renewal  project,  with  the  money  coming  out 
of  their  own  pockets. 

The  Palleys  took  part  of  the  building  space,  renovated 
it  for  their  own  use,  then  looked  for  their  first  tenant.  By  a 
stroke  of  good  fortune,  Maxwell  Silverman's  Toolhouse, 
the  now  popular  restaurant  owned  by  Gus  Giordano,  be- 
came their  "ground  floor"  tenant.  "Giordano  has  been  sort 
of  a  pacesetter  for  me,"  says  Palley.  "He  tore  everything 
apart  and  built  a  building  within  a  building." 

While  Giordano  was  concerned  with  the  building  of 
the  restaurant,  Palley  began  renovating  the  rest  of  the 
property,  one  floor  at  a  time,  redecorating  each  area  to  the 
specifications  of  the  tenant.  One  after  another,  a  lot  of 
nice  substantial  industries  and  businesses  moved  in.  A 
good  number  of  Palley's  employees  put  their  special  skills 
to  work  at  Union  Place.  "The  whole  thing  was  a  truly  co- 
operative effort,"  he  says. 

The  Palley  renovation  is  unique  in  that  it  reverses 
the  trend  of  demolishing  old  buildings  and  replacing  them 
with  new  complexes.  In  keeping  Union  Place  intact,  the 
Palleys  have  preserved  a  part  of  historic  Worcester  and  at 


the  same  time  provided  an  alternative  for  businesses  that 
would  not  fare  well  in  either  large  factories  or  retail  shops. 
Julius  is  especially  pleased  that  he  has  been  able  to  save 
25-51  Union  Place  because  they  are  the  last  two  industrial 
buildings  left  in  Worcester  which  were  originally  built  by 
Stephen  Salisbury.  "Salisbury  was  the  original  impresario 
of  construction  in  Worcester,"  lulius  declares. 

Loyalty  to  Worcester  is  a  long-standing  family  trait. 
The  Palleys  have  lived  in  the  area  for  generations.  A  son 
and  nephew  of  Julius  both  work  in  the  company  that  he 
and  his  brother  started  eleven  years  ago.  Many  of  his  em- 
ployees have  been  with  him  for  years. 

"It  is  this  type  of  loyalty  that  has  helped  me  to  accom- 
plish whatever  I  may  have  accomplished  in  business  and 
at  Union  Place,"  he  reports.  He  claims  that  it  is  his  brother 
Arthur,  the  company  treasurer  and  money  man,  who 
should  receive  an  award.  "I  was  the  front  man  for  the  reno- 
vation," he  goes  on,  "but  it  was  my  brother  who  arranged 
the  financing  and  kept  our  own  business  running." 

Looking  to  the  future  of  the  property,  Julius  is  consid- 
ering several  possibilities.  "Currently  the  Toolhouse  is  ex- 
panding to  the  two  upper  floors,  and  an  exterior  elevator 
is  being  constructed,"  he  reveals.  "We  are  trying  to  blend 
in  the  expansion  so  that  the  architectural  integrity  of  the 
buildings  is  maintained." 

Some  people  have  suggested  that  he  have  the  prop- 
erty preserved  as  an  historic  landmark,  which  would  make 
it  possible  for  him  to  obtain  government  loans.  "At  the 
present  time,  we  don't  feel  that  we  can  accept  such  loans 
because  of  the  various  restrictions  that  would  be  set  up," 
he  says.  "We  need  a  little  freedom  to  move  ahead." 

Palley  is  very  close  to  his  tenants,  all  of  whom  are 
from  out  of  town  or  are  new  businesses.  "We  didn't  offer 
anybody  on  Main  Street  a  special  deal  to  move  in  with 
us,"  he  emphasizes.  One  of  his  major  satisfactions  is  that 
the  Union  Place  tenants  are  doing  well.  "I  have  to  see 
them  often  and  find  out  what's  going  on.  I  can't  stay  away." 

Julius  Palley,  "Businessperson  of  the  Year,"  is  a  man 
who  shows  concern,  not  only  for  the  welfare  of  his  ten- 
ants but  also  for  the  past  and  the  future  of  the  city  he 
loves. 

Summer  1919 /The  WP1  Journal/ 35 


1950 


Secretary: 

Lester  J  Reynolds,  Jr 

15  Cherry  Lane 

Basking  Ridge,  NJ 

07920 


Representative 
Henry  S  Coe,  Jr. 
3  Harwick  Rd. 
Wakefield,  MA 
01880 


According  to  Art  Bouvier,  who  has  com- 
pleted a  career  in  the  Air  Force,  "Old  sol- 
diers don't  just  fade  away.  They  go  into  the 
real  estate  business."  Art  has  returned  to 
Massachusetts,  where  he  has  joined  the 
Sanford  L.  Parks  Gallery  of  Homes  in 
Sandwich  as  a  realtor-associate.  He  says, 
"I'll  be  pleased  to  assist  any  alumnus  hav- 
ing designs  on  Cape  Cod."  . . .  John 
Hawley,  associated  with  the  Walworth 
Aloyco  plant  in  Linden,  N.J.,  for  twenty 
years,  is  now  located  with  the  firm  in 
southwestern  Pennsylvania  at  the 
Greensburg  plant.  (The  firm's  nuclear  valve 
production  was  transferred  to  Pennsyl- 
vania.) He  writes,  "My  wife  and  I  are 
pleased  with  our  location  in  a  new  home  in 
Ligonier,  Pa." 

Currently,  Richard  McMahan,  Jr.,  holds 
the  post  of  manager  of  operational  plan- 
ning at  the  Center  for  Energy  Systems, 
Energy  Systems  and  Technology  Division 
of  General  Electric,  in  Washington,  D.C — 
Paul  Nyquist,  plant  engineer  at  Hill  Refrig- 
eration, Trenton,  N.J.,  is  the  present  chair- 
man of  the  Chamber's  Plant  Engineers 
Council.  The  Council  is  open  to  plant  en- 
gineers of  member  firms  and  provides  op- 
portunities for  them  to  be  better  informed 
on  topics  of  mutual  interest.  Nyquist  has 
been  with  Hill  as  plant  engineer  since  1 974. 
The  firm,  which  employs  about  1200  per- 
sons, manufactures  refrigeration  equip- 
ment for  supermarkets  and  other  food 
dealers.  "We  think  our  equipment  is  the 
Cadillac  of  the  industry,"  says  Nyquist. 
Before  joining  Hill,  he  worked  for  John  A. 
Roebling  &  Sons,  Trenton;  Robinson  and 
Associates,  Newark;  and  Joule  Technical 
Services  of  Union.  He  belongs  to  the  De- 
partment of  Environmental  Protection's 
Industry/Labor  Advisory  Committee  on 
Transportation  Air  Pollution  Control.  In  his 
spare  time,  he  plays  tennis,  skis  and  golfs. 


195 1 


Secretary 

Representative: 

Stanley  L.  Miller 

John  L.  Reid 

11  Ashwood  Rd. 

31  Spring  Garden  Dr 

Paxton,  MA 

Madison,  NJ 

01612 

07940 

Carl  Johansson  now  works  as  a  staff  spe- 
cialist (fermentation)  for  Arthur  G.  McKee, 
engineers  and  constructors.  His  daughter 
Lisa  was  married  in  the  "old  home  town  of 
Mystic,  Conn.,  in  June."  .  .  .  Tom  June  is 
vice  president  and  general  manager  of  the 
Building  Materials  Division,  Organic  Mate- 
rials, at  Koppers  Corporation  in  Pittsburgh. 


36 /The  WPl  Journal / Summer  1979 


. . .  Carl  Luz,  Jr.,  holds  the  post  of  president 
at  ESCO  Plastics,  Inc.,  in  Perth  Amboy,  N.J. 
. .  Roy  Olson  serves  as  assistant  director  of 
plant  engineering  at  Torrington  Co.  He  is 
located  in  Collinsville,  Conn. . . .  Merrill 
Spiller,  class  head  agent,  is  currently  man- 
ufacturing manager  for  Aviv  Corporation, 
Woburn,  Mass. 


1952 


Secretary 

Representative 

Edward  G  Samolis 

Philip  B  Crommelin,  Jr 

580  Roberts  Ave 

P.O  Box  38 

Syracuse,  NY 

Stanton,  NJ 

13207 

08885 

In  March  a  "mini-reunion"  of  the  Class  of 
'52  was  held  at  the  home  of  Joseph 
Lojewski  in  Wilmington,  Delaware.  Those 
attending  were  John  Feldsine  and  family, 
Dud  DeCarli,  Mike  O'Neil,  and  Rick  Fer- 
rari, '51 ,  and  their  wives. . .  .  Edgar  Van 
Cott  holds  the  post  of  president  of  Tren- 
data  Corp.  in  Santa  Ana,  Calif.,  where  he 
relocated  last  October. 


1953 

Secretary: 

Dr  David  S  Jenney 

109WilbrookRd 

Stratford,  CT 

06497 

George  Saltus  has  been  appointed  director 
of  the  Customer  Switching  Laboratory  at 
Bell  Labs  in  Denver,  Colo.  Previously,  he 
was  head  of  the  laboratory's  Support  De- 
partment. Since  1953,  he  has  been  an 
employee  of  the  firm,  and  he  holds  seven 
patents  in  military  computer  circuits,  elec- 
tronic key  telephone  systems,  and  Pic- 
turephone  key  telephone  systems. 


1954 


Secretary: 
Roger  R  Osell 
18  Eliot  Rd 
Lexington,  MA 
02173 


Representative 
Roger  R  Osell 


Richard  Meirowitz  has  joined  Safe  Flight 
Instrument  Corp.  in  White  Plains,  N.Y. . . . 
Raymond  Naudin  holds  the  post  of  director 
of  international  sales  for  Langston  in 
Cherry  Hill,  NJ. . . .  Milton  Meckler,  presi- 
dent of  Meckler  Energy  Group,  Encino, 
Calif.,  recently  delivered  a  speech  at  the 
annual  meeting  of  the  American  Section  of 
the  International  Solar  Energy  Society  in 
Denver.  His  presentation  included  case  his- 
tories of  solar  assisted  water  source  heat 
pump  systems  now  being  developed  by  his 
firm.  Meckler  has  been  named  editor  of  a 
new  reference  work,  The  Retrofitting  for 
Energy  Conservation  Handbook,  which  will 
be  published  late  this  year  or  early  in  1980 
by  Marcel  Dekker,  Inc. 


1955 


Secretary 

Representative: 

Kenneth  L.  Wakeen 

Ralph  K  Mongeon,  Jr 

344  Waterville  Rd 

Riley  Stoker  Corp 

Avon,  CT 

P  O  Box  547 

06001 

Worcester,  MA 

01613 

Richard  Crook  was  recently  appointed 
manager  of  product  engineering  at  the 
G&O  Manufacturing  Co.  in  New  Haven, 
Conn.  A  member  of  G&O  since  1972,  he 
will  now  be  responsible  for  product  en- 
gineering functions  as  they  pertain  to  the 
original  equipment  market  and  the  au- 
tomotive aftermarket  field. 

Harold  Sauer,  vice  president  of  Inter- 
mark  Associates,  Inc.,  ran  last  spring  for  a 
5-year  term  on  the  Carlisle  (Mass.)  school 
committee.  He  is  a  present  member  and 
past  chairman  of  the  planning  board,  and 
he  has  been  active  with  the  Carlisle  Histori- 
cal Commission,  State  Forestry  Advisory 
Committee,  and  the  Carlisle  Cub  Scouts. 

Tarek  Shawaf,  head  of  the  oldest  and 
largest  Saudi  Arabian  consulting  firm, 
Saudconsult,  was  pictured  on  the  cover  of 
the  April  26th  issue  of  Engineering  News- 
Record,  McGraw  Hill's  construction 
weekly.  Shawaf's  most  active  foreign 
partnership  lately  has  been  with  Tippetts- 
Abbett-McCarthy-Stratton  of  New  York. 
Their  combined  successes  include  design 
assignments  on  highways  and  inter- 
changes, a  recreational  harbor,  shore  pro- 
tection and  site  drainage  in  the  industrial 
city  of  Jubail.  Although  noted  for  civil  as- 
signments, Saudconsult's  architectural 
pride  and  joy  is  the  Ministry  of  Planning 
building,  which  it  designed. 

About  twelve  years  ago,  Shawaf  started 
his  firm  with  three  employees.  Today,  he 
employs  250,  including  twelve  graduate 
engineers.  His  staff  is  about  1/4  Egyptian;  Va 
Pakistani  and  Bangladeshi;  and  the  other 
half  Syrians,  Jordanians,  and  Saudis. 
Shawaf,  of  Syrian  descent,  was  one  of  the 
first  students  sent  from  Saudi  Arabia  to 
study  engineering  abroad.  He  enjoys  the 
respect  of  the  Saudi  royal  family,  and  has 
had  many  good  will  and  business- 
promotion  missions  abroad.  At  home  he 
serves  (without  pay)  as  secretary  general  of 
the  extravagant  and  modern  New  Equest- 
rian Club  in  Riyadh,  which  boasts  350 
members,  many  of  them  princes. 

Currently  his  firm  has  offices  or  affiliates 
in  London,  Houston,  New  York,  and  Dub- 
lin. He  sees  his  future  growth  in  association 
with  partners  from  abroad.  He  also  is  en- 
thusiastic about  the  future  of  solar  energy. 
He  says,  "In  the  next  ten  years  I'd  like  to 
pursue  bringing  solar  expertise  to  Saudi 
Arabia." 

Robert  Stempel,  a  vice  president  of  Gen- 
eral Motors  and  newly  appointed  general 
manager  of  Pontiac,  has  said  that  Pontiac 
will  remain  the  "sporty  motor  division  at 
General  Motors,"  according  to  an  article  in 
the  March  issue  of  American  Machinist. 


The  image  has  been  carefully  nurtured. 
Burt  Reynolds  drove  a  Trans  Am  in  his  role 
as  a  stuntman  in  "Hooper."  Stempel  him- 
self drove  the  pace  car,  a  Firebird,  at  the 
Daytona  500  NASCAR  race  last  winter. 
Says  Stempel,  "we  don't  race  at  GM,  but 
we  enjoy  the  hell  out  of  motor  sports.  "  Bob 
is  a  current  member  of  the  President's 
Advisory  Council  at  WPI. 

James  Warren  serves  as  vice  president  of 
quality  control  at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Machine 
Tool  Division  of  Colt  Industries  in  West 
Hartford,  Conn. 


1956 


Secretary: 

Rev  Paul  D.  Schoonmaker 

325  North  Lewis  Rd 

Royersford,  PA 

19468 


Representative 
John  M  McHugh 
431  Beacon  Hill  Dr 
Cheshire,  CT 
06410 


Joseph  Paparella  has  been  appointed  gen- 
eral manager  of  Latin  American  operations 
for  the  Foxboro  (Mass.)  Company. . . . 
Donald  Lathrop  continues  as  a  teacher  of 
philosophy  and  ethics  at  Berkshire  Com- 
munity College  (BCC)  in  Pittsfield,  Mass. 
He  has  an  MS  degree  from  RPI  and  a 
master's  in  social  ethics  from  the  University 
of  Southern  California.  He  and  his  wife, 
Marion,  have  started  a  series  of  peace  vigils 
at  BCC.  In  April  they  protested  the  launch- 
ing of  the  first  Trident  nuclear-powered 
submarine  in  Groton,  Conn.  The  Lathrops 
have  three  children:  Mark,  21 ;  Scott,  18; 
and  Dena,  12. 


Charles  Whitney  has  been  named  direc- 
tor of  research  and  development  for  the 
Wiremold  Company,  West  Hartford, 
Conn.,  the  leading  manufacturer  of  surface 
metal  raceway  electrical  distribution  sys- 
tems and  flexible  air  ducts  for  the  air  condi- 
tioning and  automotive  industries.  For- 
merly, he  was  an  application  specialist  with 
McDonnell  Douglas  Actron,  Hartford, 
Conn.,  and  a  product  engineer  with 
Superior  Electric  Co.,  Bristol.  He  did 
graduate  work  at  Trinity  and  RPI. 


1958 

Secretary: 
Harry  R  Rydstrom 
132  Sugartown  Rd 
Devon,  PA 
19333 

Walt  Janas,  Jr.,  is  a  specialist  engineer  with 
the  Boeing  Co.  assigned  to  the  Minuteman 
ICBM  update  program  at  Malmstrom  AFB 
in  Great  Falls,  Montana. . . .  Stew  Staples,  a 
contractor  and  custom  home  builder  in 
Tucson,  Arizona,  continues  to  be  active  in 
the  Tucson  Open  Golf  Tournament.  .  .  . 
William  Wesolowski  has  been  appointed 
manager  of  thin  film  operations  at  Micro 
Networks  Corp.  in  Worcester.  He  is  respon- 
sible for  the  manufacturing  of  thin  film 
resistor  networks,  as  well  as  research  and 
development  of  thin  film  devices.  Formerly 
manager  of  thin  film  devices  at  Sprague 
Electric  Co.,  he  has  been  in  the  electronics 
industry  for  twenty  years.  He  holds  a  mas- 
ter's degree  in  chemistry  from  Williams 
College. 


Dr.  Arthur  Halprin  has  been  promoted  to 
a  full  professor  of  physics  at  the  University 
of  Delaware  in  Newark.  He  joined  the 
physics  department  in  1964  as  an  assistant 
professor.  In  1 969,  he  was  named  associate 
professor.  He  received  his  doctorate  from 
the  University  of  Pennsylvania.  He  has 
published  papers  in  professional  journals, 
and  has  served  as  visiting  scientist  at  the 
Swiss  Institute  for  Nuclear  Research,  the 
Fermi  National  Accelerator  Laboratory,  and 
the  Los  Alamos  Scientific  Laboratory. . . . 
Richard  Keats  holds  the  position  of  director 
of  the  Northeast  region  for  Support  Sys- 
tems Associates,  Inc.,  Burlington,  Mass. 

The  April  issue  of  the  Abrasive  Engineer- 
ing Society  Magazine  reports  that  Robert 
Massad  spoke  on  the  evolution  of  diamond 
wheels  for  cutter  grinding  of  carbide-steel 
workpieces  at  the  spring  Technical  Confer- 
ence. He  is  a  senior  product  engineer  in  the 
Bay  State  Abrasives  Division  of  Dresser 
Industries,  and  is  responsible  for  diamond 
abrasive  products  and  electrochemical 
grinding.  With  Bay  State  since  1 959,  he  has 
held  several  engineering  posts  prior  to 
being  appointed  to  his  present  post  in 
1 966.  .  .  .  Thomas  O'Connor  and  Charles 
Zisch,  '64,  have  a  girls'  soccer  team  (which 
they  call  Charlie's  Angels)  in  Chelmsford, 
Mass.  The  Angels  took  first  place  in  their 
division  last  fall  and  everyone  is  looking 
forward  to  next  season. 

Robert  Steen  continues  as  president  of 
Recreational  Enterprises,  Inc.  in  Killington, 
Vt. . . .  "Jack"  Wolfe  serves  as  vice  presi- 
dent and  general  manager  of  the  En- 
gineered Products  Division  at  EG&G  Sealol 
in  Providence,  R.I. 


1957 

Secretary                                           Representative: 
Dr  Robert  A  Yates                           Alfred  E  Barry 
1 1  Oak  Ridge  Dr                               1  Algonquin  Rd 
Bethany,  CT                                      Worcester,  MA 
06525                                               01609 

Ralph  Johnson  is  a  manufacturer's 

repre- 

1959 

Secretary 

Dr  Frederick  H  Lutze,  Jr 

1 10  Camelot  Court  NW 

Blacksburg,  VA 

24060 

Representative: 

Dr  Joseph  D  Bronzino 

Trinity  College 

Summit  St. 

Hartford,  CT 

06106 

I960 

Secretary, 
Paul  W  Bayliss 
170Wyngate  Dr 
Barnngton,  IL 
60010 

Representative: 
JohnW  Biddle 
78  Highland  St 
Holden,  MA 
01520 

Last  year,  James  Richards  was  named  vice 
president  and  general  manager  of  produc- 
tion at  Bowers-Siemon  Chemical  Co.  in 
Coal  City,  III.  The  firm  produces  lubricants 
and  chemicals  for  the  wire  manufacturing 
industry,  and  presently  has  affiliates  in 
Brazil,  India,  South  Africa,  and  England. 
The  Coal  City  plant  is  Bowers-Siemon's 
only  manufacturing  facility  in  the  U.S. 
Richards  says  that  plant  manufacturing 
capacities  will  be  enlarged  by  25  percent  in 
1980. 


David  Daubney  works  as  a  project  en- 
gineer at  Curtis  and  Marble  Corp.  in 
Worcester.  .      Fr.  Harvey  D.  Egan,  S.J  , 
recently  received  tenure  and  promotion  to 
associate  professor  at  Boston  Theology, 
where  he  teaches  systematic  and  mystical 
theology.  He  has  written  two  books  on 
mysticism  and  many  articles  on  mysticism, 
theological  methodology,  and  various 
theological  themes.  His  latest  work  is  a 
chapter  on  the  mystical  theology  of  Karl 
Rahner  in  the  German  publication,  Wagnis 
Theologie. ...  Dr.  David  Evensen's  daugh- 
ter, Karen,  is  on  the  women's  basketball 
team  at  the  University  of  California  at 
Irvine.  She  plans  to  study  engineering. 


Joshua  Alpern  was  just  promoted  to  GS-1 6 
at  the  Central  Intelligence  Agency  in  the 

Directorate  of  Science  and  Technology 

Currently,  William  Bonta  is  chief  of  the 
division  of  planning  for  the  Environmental 
Health  Administration  at  the  State  Dept.  of 
Health  in  Baltimore,  Md. . . .  Donald  Cloud 
continues  as  president  of  Country  Home 
Development  Corp.  in  Guilford,  Conn. . . . 
Al  Materas,  Jr.,  is  now  employed  by  Robert 
E.  Nolan  Co.,  Inc.,  Simsbury,  Conn.,  where 
he  serves  as  a  senior  management  consul- 
tant. .  .  .  Robert  Mercer  works  as  district 
representative  at  the  Permutit  Co.  in  Char- 
lotte, N.C.        Robert  Mulholland,  Jr.,  has 
been  transferred  to  Ft.  Monmouth,  N.J., 
where  he  is  a  procurement  officer  in  U.S. 
Army  Communications-Electronics  Readi- 
ness Command. . . .  H.  David  Sutton  is  with 
Sanders  Associates  of  Nashua,  N.H. . . . 
Edward  Sappet  serves  as  manager  of  cor- 
porate process  engineering  at  Data  General 
Corp.,  Westboro,  Mass. 

Summer  1919 /  The  WPI  journal/ 37 


1961 

Secretary: 
John  J  Gabarro 
8Monadnock  Rd 
Arlington,  MA 
02174 

►fiorn:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  George  Yule,  Jr.,  a 
son,  Todd  Michael,  on  November  5,  1 978. 
Presently,  George  is  a  partner  of  Crampton, 
Remke  &  Miller,  a  consulting  firm  in  Palo 
Alto,  Calif. 

Still  with  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston, 
Richard  Federico  is  now  with  the  Engineer- 
ing Mechanics  Division. 

Dr.  H.  Richard  Freeman  has  been 
awarded  the  National  Aeronautics  and 
Space  Administration's  Exceptional  Service 
Medal  for  his  work  as  system  engineer  for 
the  agency's  international  ultraviolet  ex- 
plorer. He  was  cited  for  his  "perseverance 
and  personal  dedication,  which  were  re- 
sponsible in  large  part  for  the  success  of  this 
important  mission."  Dr.  Freeman  has  a 
master's  degree  from  Yale  and  a  PhD  from 
the  University  of  Maryland.  During  the 
year  since  it  was  launched  into  synchron- 
ous orbit,  the  satellite  has  provided  as- 
tronomers around  the  world  with  over 
4,000  spectral  images,  and  it  may  lead 
scientists  to  a  better  understanding  of  ele- 
ments, temperatures,  and  pressure  within 
stars. 

William  Gill,  a  professional  engineer, 
recently  opened  with  his  partner,  Gill  and 
Pulver  Engineers,  Inc.  in  Sacramento,  Calif. 
Gill  and  Pulver  is  a  civil  engineering  firm 
specializing  in  water  resources  planning 
and  development,  flood  control  and  flood 
plain  management,  land  development,  and 

environmental  studies Lee  Hackett  was 

recently  elected  president  of  the  American 
Appraisal  Company,  the  largest  operating 
unit  within  American  Appraisal  Associates, 
Inc.,  the  Milwaukee-based  international 
valuation,  mapping,  and  consulting  firm. 
He  started  work  at  the  firm  in  1963,  and 
was  elected  vice  president  in  1 975.  He  has 
previously  served  as  field  supervisor,  man- 
ager of  engineering  valuation,  manager  of 
industrial  valuation  division,  and  as  central 
regional  manager  and  vice  president  and 
manager  of  appraisal  operations.  He  holds 
an  MBA  from  the  University  of  Chicago. 

Merrill  Rutman  says,  "I  am  spending  an 
academic  year  at  MIT  studying  operations 
research,  system  dynamics,  and  manage- 
ment information  systems.  Since  Sep- 
tember 1 978  my  family  and  I  have  been 
living  in  Chestnut  Hill  and  enjoying  the 
Boston  area.  We  plan  to  be  back  home  in 
New  Jersey  this  summer."  .  .  .  David 
Youden  has  been  promoted  to  assistant 
director  of  engineering  at  Cone-Blanchard 
Machine  Co.  in  Windsor,  Vt.  This  is  a  new 
position  in  the  engineering  department. 
Since  joining  the  company  in  1973,  he  has 
served  as  product  development  engineer, 
quality  control  manager,  and  most  re- 
cently, manager  of  product  development. 


1962 


Secretary: 
Harry  T  Rapelje 
1313  Parma  Hilton  Rd 
Hilton,  NY 
14468 


Representative: 
Richard  J  DiBuono 
44  Lambert  Circle 
Marlboro,  MA 
01752 


►fiorn.  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Joel  Freedman, 
their  second  child,  a  daughter,  on  March  6, 
1979. 

Hubert  Cole  has  received  his  MS  in  ad- 
ministration of  science  and  technology 
from  George  Washington  University.  He's 
employed  as  a  senior  project  officer  in 
headquarters,  U.S.  Army  Test  &  Evaluation 
Command,  Aberdeen  Proving  Ground, 

Md Jacob  Erlich  has  been  elected  to  the 

board  of  governors  of  the  Boston  Patent 
Law  Association.  . . .  George  Forsberg 
writes:  "Expect  to  be  returning  to  the  U.S. 
later  this  year  following  41/2  years  in  the 
United  Kingdom  with  Monsanto."  .  . . 
Sharad  Gandbhir  recently  purchased  One 
Heritage  Mall  in  Berlin,  Mass.  He  expects  to 
make  some  renovations,  and  to  use  the 
building  for  investment  purposes.  He  will 
continue  with  the  same  professional  clien- 
tele, such  as  physicians  and  businessmen. 
Sharad  and  his  wife  and  three  children  live 
in  Newton. 

Last  year  Jay  Hochstaine  received  his 
MBA  from  Chapman  College.  .  .  .  Still 
residing  in  Bogor,  Indonesia,  David  Smith  is 
now  a  project  engineer  for  Laurie, 
Montgomerie  &  Pettit  in  Jakarta. 


1963 


Secretary: 

Robert  E  Maynard.Jr 

8  Institute  Rd 

North  Grafton,  MA 

01536 


Representative 
Joseph  J  Mielmski, 
34  Pioneer  Rd. 
Holden,  MA 
01520 


Robert  Behn,  an  associate  professor  at 
Duke  University's  Institute  of  Policy  Sci- 
ences and  Public  Affairs,  was  the  author  of 
"Terminating  Public  Policies"  in  the  Oc- 
tober 1 6,  1 978  issue  of  The  Wall  Street 
Journal. 

In  February,  Richard  Dann  was  pro- 
moted to  editor  of  Power  Transmission 
Design  magazine.  Also,  he  was  recently 
elected  to  the  board  of  governors  of  the 
Cleveland  Engineering  Society.  ...  Dr. 
Richard  Dominguez  is  now  a  professor  of 
basic  engineering  and  head  of  the  depart- 
ment at  Colorado  School  of  Mines.  He  has 
an  MSCE  from  Colorado  State  and  his 
doctorate  in  civil  engineering  (ocean  en- 
gineering) from  Oregon  State  University. 
He  has  had  1 3  years  of  teaching  experi- 
ence, and  serves  as  a  consultant  for  Brown 
and  Root,  Inc.,  developing  ocean  structures 
supporting  oil  and  gas  operations,  and  with 
Sipen-Speery  Systems. 


John  Goselin  has  been  named  supervisor 
of  the  product,  film  emulsion,  and  plate 
division  at  Kodak  Park.  He  joined  Kodak  in 
1 963.  His  most  recent  appointment  was 
senior  product  engineer.  .  .  .  Dennis  Heath 
is  still  with  GE,  Circuit  Protective  Devices 
Dept.,  in  Plainville,  Conn.  After  three  years 
as  product  planner  in  marketing,  he  has 
returned  to  engineering,  handling  UL 
liaison  work  for  GE's  low  voltage  power 
circuit  breakers,  ground  fault  products,  and 
large  molded  case  circuit  breakers. 

Russ  Hokanson  serves  as  senior  super- 
visor in  the  reactor  department  at  the 
Savannah  River  Plant  in  Aiken,  S.C.  In 
the  past  year  he  has  run  in  five  marathons, 
his  best  time  being  3:21  in  Savannah,  Ga. 
His  wife,  Barbara,  is  involved  with  the  Girl 
Scouts.  Donna,  13,  and  Debbie,  10,  are 
active  in  soccer,  basketball,  running,  and 
scouting.  ...  Dr.  Richard  Kashnow  was 
recently  named  head  of  GE's  Electronics 
Laboratory  in  Syracuse,  N.Y.  Formerly,  he 
had  been  at  GE's  Electric  Research  and 
Development  Center  in  Schenectady.  . . . 
Jim  Magaldi  has  transferred  from  Digital's 
Westfield  (Mass.)  plant  to  Maynard  as  a 
corporate  plant  engineer. 


1964 


Secretary: 

Dr  David  T  Signori,  Jr. 

6613  Denny  PI 

McLean,  VA 

22101 


Representative: 
Barry  J  Kadets 
7  Bellwood  St 
Framingham,  MA 
10701 


Marshall  Crow  says  that  he  spends  a  lot  of 
time  in  the  Pacific  area  on  an  "interesting 
contract."  He  is  presently  head  of  the 
intelligence  systems  department  at  GTE 
Sylvania  in  Needham,  Mass.  . .  .  Bruce 
Juhola  holds  the  position  of  marketing 
manager  of  the  Telecom  Division  of 
Raychem  Corp.,  Menlo  Park,  Calif. . . . 
Walter  Lankau,  Jr.,  vice  president  of  Man- 
agement Decision  System,  Inc.,  Waltham, 
Mass.,  recently  represented  his  firm  at  a 
conference  relating  to  joint  European  mar- 
keting ventures.  His  firm  is  a  national  com- 
pany in  the  development  and  use  of 
problem-solving  models  and  computer 
software  for  business  analysis  and  plan- 
ning. Lankau  has  an  MS  in  chemical  en- 
gineering from  UMass  and  an  MBA  from 
Wharton  School,  University  of  Pennsyl- 
vania. In  September,  the  Lankaus  will  be 
moving  to  a  new  home  in  Sudbury,  Mass. 

Arthur  Luhtala  is  still  project  engineer 
and  government  representative  for  USDA 
Soil  Conservation  Service  in  Meredith,  N.H. 
...  Dr.  J.  Richard  Lundgren,  associate 
professor  of  mathematics  at  Allegheny  Col- 
lege, Meadville,  Pa.,  has  received  a  Faculty 
Professional  Development  grant  of 
$18,220  from  the  National  Science  Foun- 
dation. The  grant  is  for  study  during 
1 979-80  at  the  University  of  Colorado, 
where  he  will  be  working  in  the  areas  of 
applied  finite  mathematics.  He  will  also  be 


38  /  The  WPl  journal  /  Summer  1 979 


concerned  with  computer  science,  and  the 
development  of  computer  programs  which 
can  be  used  in  various  courses  of  com- 
binatorics, abstract  algebra,  and  linear 
algebra.  Prior  to  joining  the  Allegheny  fac- 
ulty in  1971 ,  Dr.  Lundgren  had  been  with 
New  England  Telephone  Company.  He  re- 
ceived his  master's  degree  and  PhD  from 
Ohio  State  University.  Several  of  his  articles 
have  been  published  in  the  Journal  of 
Algebra. 

Continuing  with  GTE  Sylvania,  Dr.  Elliot 
Wyner  is  now  with  the  lighting  products 
group  at  headquarters  in  Danvers,  Mass. 
He  is  an  advanced  R&D  engineer.  He,  his 
wife  Janice,  and  three  boys  live  in  Peabody. 


1965 

Representative 
Patrick  T.  Moran 
100  Chester  Rd 
Boxboro,  MA 
01719 

Phil  Bachelder  now  works  for  James  River 
Graphics,  formerly  Scott  Graphics.  .  .  . 
Edward  Falkowski  is  marketing  manager  in 
Tokyo,  Japan,  for  du  Pont's  Far  East  Photo 

Products  Department Jim  Fee  serves  as 

a  product  manager  at  Accutest  in 
Chelmsford,  Mass.  He  resides  in  Winthrop. 
. . .  Mordecai  Gutman,  who  has  his  MBA 
from  the  University  of  Detroit,  is  currently 
employed  by  Texas  Instruments  as  a  field 
marketing  specialist  involved  with  dealer 
and  sales  training  for  professional  and 
commercial  products.  .  .  .  William  Nicker- 
son  is  a  self-employed  consulting  engineer 
in  San  Francisco. 

Phil  Ryan  has  been  elected  a  corporator 
at  Merchants  Savings  Bank  in  Manchester, 
N.H.  He  is  a  partner  in  Bigelow  &  Co.,  a 
Manchester-based  management  consult- 
ing group,  which  he  founded  nine  years 
ago.  Previously,  he  was  with  Humble  Oil 
(Exxon)  in  Houston,  Texas.  He  has  been  a 
member  of  the  accreditation  committee  at 
Merrimack  Valley  College,  and  has  lectured 
in  many  business  management  and  Small 
Business  Administration  courses,  including 
several  presented  at  WPI.  He  has  an  MBA 
from  Harvard,  and  is  a  member  of  the 
board  of  advisors,  Department  of  Man- 
agement at  WPI,  as  well  as  being  a  member 
of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association  executive 
committee.  In  Manchester,  Ryan  has  been 
associated  with  the  United  Way  (board  of 
directors);  Elliot  Hospital  (board  of  direc- 
tors); and  the  Greater  Manchester 
Chamber  of  Commerce.  He  served  as  vice 
president  and  a  director  of  United  Way  of 
N.H.;  a  member  of  the  Manchester  Plan- 
ning Board;  and  as  a  former  regional  plan- 
ning commissioner  representing  Manches- 
ter on  the  Southern  New  Hampshire  Plan- 
ning Commission. 


Still  employed  as  a  senior  civil  engineer 
by  Suffolk  County  Public  Works  Dept.  on 
Long  Island,  Harry  Schneck  is  presently  in 
charge  of  contract  highway  and  bridge 
construction  projects.  He,  his  wife,  Sandi, 
and  their  two  sons  live  on  Great  South  Bay 
at  Blue  Point.  .  .  .  Ronald  Schultz,  a  senior 
software  specialist  for  Digital  Equipment 
Corp.,  Fairport,  N.Y.,  is  a  resident  at  Corn- 
ing Glass  Works-Process  Systems. 


1966 


Secretary: 
Gary  Dyckman 
29  Skilton  Lane 
Burlington,  MA 
01803 


Representative 
Dr.  Donald  H  Foley 
Indiantield  Rd 
Clinton,  NY 
13323 


Roger  Armata  has  been  named  superin- 
tendent of  manufacturing  services  at  Tor- 
rington  (Conn.)  Co.  He  joined  Torrington's 
engineering  department  in  1966,  and  has 
held  a  number  of  posts  since.  He  has  an 
MBA  from  the  University  of  Hartford.  The 
Armatas  live  in  Torrington  with  their  two 
children.  ...  Jay  Botop  serves  as  an  electri- 
cal manufacturer's agentfor  J. R.  Childers  & 
Associates  in  Pensacola,  Fla. .  .  .  Donald 
Givens  was  recently  transferred  from  his 
post  as  manager  of  product  marketing  to  a 
sales  position  in  Birmingham,  Alabama  for 
Envirotech  Corp. 

Dave  Klimaj  has  been  promoted  to  pro- 
gram manager  within  the  Office  of  the 
Assistant  Secretary  for  Conservation  and 
Solar  Applications,  U.S.  Department  of  En- 
ergy, Washington,  D.C.  He  is  responsible 
for  various  legislative  initiatives  mandated 
by  the  National  Energy  Conservation  Policy 

Act Paul  Malnati  has  joined  Formation 

Inc.  of  Mt.  Laurel,  N.J.,  as  a  senior  member 
of  the  technical  staff. . .  .  Dennis  Murphy 
has  been  named  manager  of  the  Florida 
Pops  Orchestra  of  Fort  Lauderdale.  A  musi- 
cian and  a  consultant  in  physics  at  Florida 
International  University,  Miami,  Murphy 
plays  the  recorder,  the  Moog  synthesizer, 
and  the  krummhorn.  He  taught  physics  for 
five  years  at  Wentworth  Institute,  Boston. 
He  holds  degrees  from  Northeastern  Uni- 
versity and  Nova  University. 

Recently,  Ronald  Naventi  completed 
studies  for  his  MS  in  energy  systems  at 
George  Washington  University.  He  is  em- 
ployed as  an  engineering  supervisor  in  the 
Nuclear  Fuels  Operations  Division  of 
Bechtel  Corp.  in  San  Francisco.  He  is  also 
involved  in  nuclear  waste  management — 
C.J.  Patch  III  serves  as  a  field  contract 
administrator  for  Bechtel  Power  Corp.  in 
Hancocks  Bridge,  N.J.  A  professional  en- 
gineer, he  is  registered  in  California, 
Arizona,  Texas,  and  Massachusetts.  He,  his 
wife  Patricia  and  two  children  reside  in 
Vineland,  N.J. . . .  Dr.  Frank  Pfeiffer,  Jr.,  has 
been  granted  tenure  at  Nichols  College, 
Dudley,  Mass.  He  is  associate  professor  of 
management,  and  received  his  MBA  from 
Boston  College  and  his  PhD  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  Massachusetts. 


Anthony  Sacovitch  holds  the  title  of  chief 
engineer  of  the  Worcester  Group  of  the 
Wright  Machine  Corporation  Division, 
Worcester.  The  Sacovitches  have  four 
daughters:  Lisa,  Kerrie,  Donna,  and  Lori.  . . 
Ronald  Swers,  is  employed  by  Stone  & 
Webster,  Cherry  Hill,  N.J. 


1967 


Secretary: 

John  L  Kilguss 

5  Summershade  Circle 

Piscataway,  NJ 

08854 


Representative 
Raymond  C  Rogers 
92  North  Common  Rd 
Westminster,  MA 
01473 


►fiorn:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Frank  Manter, 
their  first  son,  Bryan,  on  November  2 1 , 
1 978. ...  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  George  H.  Rand, 
Jr.,  a  daughter,  Susan  Elaine,  on  January 
24,  1979. 

Richard  Court,  Jr.,  has  been  elected 
chairman  of  his  local  section  (Greater  Dan- 
bury,  Conn.)  of  the  American  Society  for 
Quality  Control.  He  continues  as  a  quality 
control  engineer  for  Perkin-Elmer  Corp.  in 
Norwalk.  .  .  .  Joe  Ferrantino  is  now  the 
research  group  leader  of  the  pilot  plant  at 
Monsanto's  Bircham  Bend  plant  in  Indian 
Orchard,  Mass.  He  is  responsible  for  both 
mechanical  and  chemical  process  devel- 
opment. In  1967  he  started  as  a  process 
engineer  at  the  firm.  Most  recently  he  was 
a  process  engineer  specialist. .  .  .  Ronald 
Jolicoeur  works  as  a  project  manager  at 
Teller  Environmental  Systems,  Inc., 
Worcester.  .  .  .  Engineers  Inc.,  headquar- 
tered in  New  Jersey  and  Milford  (Conn.), 
has  appointed  Mafatbhai  Patel  as  chief 
structural  engineer.  He  joined  the  company 
after  being  associated  with  two  other  com- 
panies. 

In  March  Joseph  Maggi  was  named  vice 
president  of  Odyssey  Exploration  Co.,  an 
oil  exploration  and  gas  drilling  company 
based  in  Farmington,  Conn.,  and  Houston, 
Texas.  Previously  Maggi  was  tax  director  of 
Coleco  Industries,  Inc.  He  and  his  wife, 
Alice,  have  two  children,  Laura,  5,  and  Jill, 
3. .  .  .  Richard  Plummer  has  a  new  job  as 
technical  support  specialist  in  microcom- 
puters for  Digital  Equipment  Corp.  in 
Marlboro,  Mass. . . .  Presently,  Robert Shen 
serves  as  project  manager  in  the  engineer- 
ing department  at  National  Cash  Register. 
He  is  married,  has  two  children,  and  resides 
in  Ithaca,  N.Y. . .  .  Charlie  Sisitsky  writes 
that  he  is  still  the  director  of  community 
development  for  the  City  of  Medford  and 
lives  in  Framingham,  Mass.  His  wife  Margie 
teaches  and  sells  pottery  at  their  home 
studio.  They  have  four  children:  Tammy, 
10;  Adam,  8V2;  Nathaniel,  5;  and 
Jeremiah,  2V2. 


Summer  1919 /The  WPI  Journal/ 39 


II     II 


Stephen  Smith  is  with  the  New  York 
State  Office  of  General  Services,  Design 
and  Construction  Section.  . .  .  William 
Tanzer  has  been  promoted  to  assistant 
superintendent  at  Eastman  Gelatine  Corp. 
in  Peabody,  Mass.  The  firm  provides  about 
60  percent  of  the  gelatine  used  by  Eastman 
Kodak  Co.  in  North  and  South  America. 


1968 


Secretary: 
Charles  A.  Griffin 
2901  Municipal  PierRd. 
Shreveport,  LA 
71119 


Representative: 

William  J  Rasku 

33  Mark  Bradford  Dr 

Holden.MA 

01520 


^Married:  Charles  A.  Griffin  and  Miss  Rita 
A.  Shaw  on  March  10,  1979  in  Shreveport, 
Louisiana.  Mrs.  Griffin,  a  graduate  of 
Louisiana  State  University,  teaches  in  the 
Shreveport  school  system.  The  groom 
serves  as  a  research  associate  at  LSU  Medi- 
cal School. 

William  Belisle  has  completed  a  one- 
year  term  as  president  of  Lambda  Chi 
chapter  of  Kappa  Delta  Pi,  a  National  honor 
society  in  education.  He  is  presently  work- 
ing on  an  MBA  degree  at  California  State 
University  at  Long  Beach. . . .  Recently,  Jeff 
Decker  got  together  with  Barrie  Peterson, 
who  owns  Birchwood  Organization  in  Cen- 
treville,  Va.  . . .  Continuing  with  Kodak, 
Cobb  Goff  now  serves  as  senior  photo- 
graphic engineer  for  the  firm  in  Rochester, 
N.Y. . . .  Geoffrey  Hartung  holds  the  post  of 
manager  of  engineering  and  facilities  ser- 
vices at  Loctite,  Inc.  in  Newington,  Conn. 
He  is  a  professional  engineer. 

For  over  a  year,  Joe  Hilyard  has  been 
serving  as  assistant  director  of  the  Wiscon- 
sin Energy  Extension  Service's  Energy  In- 
formation Center.  He  says  that  Wisconsin, 
like  Massachusetts,  is  one  of  ten  states 
chosen  by  the  Department  of  Energy  to 
carry  out  year-long  pilot  programs  in  en- 
ergy conservation  education.  The  Center 
works  with  County  Extension  offices  in  72 
counties  to  help  staff  members  answer 
questions  and  present  public  energy  pro- 
grams. It  also  works  directly  with  the 
media.  Joe  is  a  co-host  of  a  weekly  live  TV 
program  called  "Saving  Energy"  on  Chan- 
nel 3  in  Madison.  "Lots  of  fun  and  a  great 
experience."  Previously,  Joe  was  with  a 
consulting  firm  in  Durham,  N.C.;  had 
served  as  assistant  editor  of  Circuits  Man- 
ufacturing, a  Boston  trade  journal;  and  had 
been  associated  with  the  University  of 
Michigan's  Highway  Safety  Research  Insti- 
tute; and  Hamilton  Standard.  Last  year  he 
completed  a  master's  program  in  jour- 
nalism at  the  University  of  Wisconsin- 
Madison.  He  found  himself  drawn  to  the 
"fascinating  task  of  trying  to  explain  and 
interpret  technical  material  to  nontechni- 
cally-trained  audiences,"  which  he  does 
daily  in  his  current  post  at  the  Energy 
Information  Center. 


John  Hilyard,  Joe's  twin  brother,  is  plant 
engineer  for  Celanese  Corporation  in 
Texas.  Earlier,  he  had  been  employed  by 
Allied  Chemical  in  Ashland,  Ky.  and  Bundy 
Tubing  in  Lexington,  Ky.,  and  had  a  tour 
with  the  Army  with  stops  in  Georgia,  New 
Mexico,  New  Jersey,  and  Panama.  The 
Hilyards  have  three  children  and  reside  in 

Corpus  Christi Presently,  Robert  Kohm 

works  as  a  senior  process  engineer  at  Craw- 
ford &  Russell  in  Stamford,  Conn Peter 

Konopa  is  supervisor  of  midsize  specialty 
financial  analysis  at  Ford  Motor  Company 
in  Dearborn,  Mich. . . .  Richard  Kung  is  a 
member  of  the  technical  staff  at  the  Mitre 

Corporation,  Bedford,  Mass Michael 

Latina  recently  completed  requirements  for 
the  PhD  in  applied  mathematics  at  Brown 
University.  Presently  he  is  assistant  profes- 
sor of  mathematics  at  Rhode  Island  Junior 
College.  He  and  his  wife,  Mary-Jeanne, 
have  three  children:  Michael,  6;  Kristin, 

41/2;  and  Justin,  2 Israel  Mac  has  been 

appointed  by  the  Mayor  of  Atlanta  (Ga.)  to 
the  position  of  director  of  the  Bureau  of 
Traffic  and  Transportation  Engineering. 
The  bureau  supervises  Atlanta's  traffic  con- 
trol and  management  systems,  and  coordi- 
nates development  of  the  city's  transporta- 
tion programs  and  projects.  Israel  and  his 
wife,  Bette,  have  two  children:  Melissa,  8; 
and  Joshua,  6. 

Steve  Pytka,  who  holds  an  MBA  from 
Tuck  School  at  Dartmouth,  is  now  in  the 
Strategic  Planning  Department  at  Xerox  in 
Rochester,  NY...  Jeffrey  Semmel  joined 
Raytheon  Service  Company  in  June  as  a 
senior  systems  engineer.  He  is  doing  con- 
tract systems  programming  work. . .    Wil- 
liam Stanton  is  now  employed  by  the  Col- 
orado Water  Conservation  Board  Depart- 
ment of  Natural  Resources  in  Denver, 
where  he  is  a  senior  water  resource  en- 
gineer  Marshall  Taylor  has  been 

named  vice  president  and  treasurer  of 
Ryder  System,  Inc.,  Miami,  Fla.  He  joined 
the  company  in  1 974  as  manager  of  capital 
planning  and  four  months  later  was  pro- 
moted to  director  of  corporate  planning.  In 
1 975  he  was  advanced  to  assistant  trea- 
surer, and  last  year  he  was  elected  trea- 
surer. RvderSvstem,  Inc.  is  an  international 
holding  company  whose  divisions  provide 
essential  highway  transportation  services 
to  businesses  and  individuals  throughout 
the  U.S.,  Canada,  the  United  Kingdom,  and 
the  Netherlands.  With  1978  revenue  of 
$1 .1 24  billion,  the  company  was  375th  in 
Forbes  magazine's  1979  list  of  the  nation's 
500  largest  companies  ranked  according  to 
revenue. 


1969 


Secretary 

Representative: 

James  P.  Atkinson 

Michael  W  Noga 

41  Naples  Rd 

West  Bare  Hill  Rd 

Brookline,  MA 

Harvard,  MA 

02146 

01451 

^■Married:  Richard  W.  DeLand  and  Elisa  A. 
Mazza  in  Bridgeport,  Connecticut  on 
March  17,1 979.  The  bride,  a  teacher, 
graduated  from  the  Seminaria  Baptista  de 
Trujillo  in  Peru.  The  groom  is  a  computer 
programmer  analyst. 

►fiorn:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Douglas  J. 
George,  a  daughter,  Jamie  Lynne,  on  De- 
cember 6, 1 978. ...  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Jeffrey 
C.  Knapp,  their  second  son,  Kevin  William- 
son, on  May  19, 1979.  Jeff  continues  build- 
ing houses  and  is  now  into  beekeeping  and 
making  molds  for  weathervanes —  to  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Andrew  T.  Perreault,  their  second 
child,  Amy,  on  December  23,  1978. 

Matthew  will  be  three  in  October to 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Phillip  R.  Welsey,  Jr.,  a  son, 
Kevin  Phillip,  on  February  15,  1979.  Kevin 
joins  sisters,  Kristin  and  Karin. 

Brian  Abraham  received  an  MBA  from 
Suffolk  University  on  Feb.  14th,  one  semes- 
ter after  being  awarded  as  MS  in  engineer- 
ing science  from  Clarkson  College, 
Potsdam,  N.Y.  He  is  a  planning  engineer  in 
the  product  planning  and  management 
organization  at  Western  Electric,  which  he 
joined  in  1 972.  While  a  lieutenant  in  the 
U.S.  Army,  he  was  awarded  a  Bronze  Star  in 
Vietnam.  He,  his  wife  Jacqueline,  and  two 

sons  live  in  Plaistow,  N.H Roger 

Dennison  is  a  member  of  the  Metropolitan 
Boston  Transit  Authority  Advisory  Board, 
and  serves  as  chairman  of  the  energy  effi- 
ciency subcommittee  for  the  board.  He  is  a 
founder  and  principal  of  Energy  Planning, 
Inc.,  a  Boston  consulting  firm  that  assists 
building  owners  in  the  reduction  of  energy 
usage  and  cost. 

Gregory  Enz  was  recently  promoted  to 
district  manager  of  coin  operations  by  New 
England  Telephone.  He  is  responsible  for  all 
coin  telephones,  sales  and  collection  in 
Massachusetts  outside  of  Rt.  1 28  and  in 
Rhode  Island.  The  Enzes  have  a  son,  Chris- 
topher, 7,  and  a  daughter,  Courtney,  4. . . . 
Peter  Heins  is  a  pilot  for  Eastern  Airlines  out 
of  Miami,  Fla.  He  and  wife,  Jan,  have  two 
children,  and  reside  in  Redland        Henry 
Sweet  of  Photographic  Images  has  exhib- 
ited a  series  of  his  color  photographs  at 
Gallery  201  in  Hartford,  Conn.  He  belongs 
to  the  Wachusett  Camera  Club  and  the 
Photographic  Society  of  America.  His  im- 
ages extend  from  Hawaii  to  Switzerland. 
He  is  with  the  systems  division  of  the 
Travelers  Insurance  Co. 


40 /The  WPl  Journal / Summer  2979 


I97Q 


Secretary: 

Representative: 

F  David  Ploss  III 

Domenic  J  Forcella,  Jr 

208  St  Nicholas  Ave 

25  Hough  St 

Worcester,  MA 

Plainville,  CT 

01606 

06062 

►fiorn:  to  Mr,  and  Mrs.  Roger  J.  Kern,  their 
first  child,  Catherine  Mary,  on  September 

2, 1978 to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  George 

Moore,  a  second  son  last  spring.  ...  to  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Howard  Norcross,  a  daughter, 
Sarah  Jane,  recently.  Howard  continues  as 
a  general  partner  in  C.E.  Norcross  &  Son, 
building  contractors,  in  South  Chatham, 
Mass.  He  is  a  member  of  the  Massachusetts 
Home  Builders  Association,  the  National 
Association  of  Home  Builders,  a  trustee  of 
Cape  Cod  Contractors  Insurance-Trust,  a 
staff  officer  of  the  Coast  Guard  Auxiliary, 
and  a  director  of  the  Cape  Cod  Contrac- 
tors' and  Builders'  Association.  He  is  also 
associated  with  the  yacht  club,  the  Rotary, 
and  the  American  Management  Associa- 
tion. ...  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Marc  E.  Schweig, 
their  second  child,  Allyson,  last  November. 
Schweig  is  attending  Harvard  University  on 
a  Western  Electric  Science  and  Engineering 
Fellowship. 

James  Bagaglio  is  a  quality  control  tech- 
nician at  Waters  Associates  in  Milford, 
Mass. .    .  Kenneth  Cram  has  been  awarded 
the  Young  Engineer  Award  from  the  Gen- 
eral Electric  Aircraft  Engine  Group.  He  was 
recognized  for  his  outstanding  contribu- 
tions to  the  resolution  of  the  TF34  engine 
field  problems  by  virtue  of  his  excellent 
evaluation  engineering  direction,  often  at 
a  great  sacrifice  of  personal  time.  Among 
his  accomplishments  was  the  completion  of 
over  3000  successful  engine  test  hours  on 
27  engine  builds.  Cram  is  manager  of 
TF34-100  evaluation  engineering  at  GE  in 
Lynn,  Mass. . . .  Bernard  Dodge  is  a  univer- 
sity fellow  in  the  Instructional  Design  Pro- 
gram at  Syracuse  (N.Y.)  University. 

U.S.  Representative  David  Emery  of 
Maine  delivered  the  commencement  ad- 
dress at  Berwick  (Me.)  Academy  in  June. 
Recently  elected  to  his  third  term  in  Con- 
gress, Emergy  belongs  to  committees  on 
Armed  Services,  Merchant  Marine  and 
Fisheries,  and  House  Republican  Policy.  He 
is  chairman  of  both  the  Maine  congres- 
sional delegation  and  of  the  Republican 
Task  Force  on  Energy. ...  Dr.  Lothar 
Kleiner,  who  received  his  PhD  in  polymer 
science  and  engineering  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Massachusetts  last  year,  is  presently 
a  polymer  research  engineer  at  Diamond 
Shamrock  Corp.,  Painesville,  Ohio.  He  also 
teaches  polymer  chemistry  courses  at  Lake 
Erie  College,  where  he  is  faculty  member. 

Jeffrey  Manty  has  been  promoted  by 
Bethlehem  Steel  Corp.  to  division  engineer 
of  the  Saucon  Rolling  Mills  Division  at  the 
Bethlehem  plant.  Formerly,  he  was  fore- 
man of  the  plant's  combination  mill,  the 
number  one  producer  of  structural  and 
wide  flange  steel  shapes  in  the  country. 


Jeff,  his  wife,  Christine,  and  children,  Katie 
and  Daryl,  reside  in  Nazareth,  Pa. 

In  January,  Ed  Mason  resigned  his  job  as 
plant  manager  with  Amoco  Chemicals 
Corporation,  a  division  of  Standard  Oil  in 
Seymour,  Indiana,  to  accept  the  position  of 
vice  president  of  operations  with  Diesel 
ReCon  Company,  a  division  of  Cummins 
Engine  Company  in  Memphis,  Tennessee. 
His  new  responsibilities  include  the  supervi- 
sion of  800  people  in  three  manufacturing 
plants  in  Memphis,  Chicago,  and  Los 
Angeles,  and  the  remanufacturing  of 
Cummins  diesel  engines.  Cummins  is  the 
largest  diesel  engine  producer  with  45  per- 
cent of  the  national  market.  Ed's  wife, 
Norma,  just  received  her  BA  in  sociology 
from  Indiana  University.  They  have  two 
children:  Melissa,  8  and  Ed  II,  6. 

Bob  Soffel  recently  was  program  chair- 
man for  Union  Carbide's  local  office 
(Parma,  Ohio)  for  the  United  Way.  He 
writes,  "I  think  WPI's  Fund  Drive  is  well- 
run  using  successful  techniques.  Proud  to 
be  part  of  WPI  —  again!"  . . .  Michael 
Vardeman  holds  the  post  of  safety  man- 
ager for  Lonestar  Florida,  Inc.  .  .  .  Philip 
Warren  received  his  MBA  from  Northeast- 
ern University  last  year.  He  has  been  ad- 
vanced to  finishing  superintendent  in  the 
Graphic  Products  Division  of  the  Nashua 
Corporation's  Merrimack  (N.H.)  plant. 


1971 


Secretary: 
Vincent  T.  Pace 
4707  Apple  Lane 
West  Deptford,  NJ 
08066 

>Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Herbert  Nock,  a 
daughter  Kimberly  Gayle,  recently.  Nock 
received  his  MBA  from  BU  last  year.  ...  to 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  Petrillo,  a  son,  Michael 
Thaler,  on  May  4,  1979.  John  is  district 
market  manager  at  AT&T  Long  Lines  in 
Bedminster,  New  Jersey. 

William  Beloff  has  been  named  chief 
engineer  at  Soil  and  Rock  Instrumentation 
in  Newton  Upper  Falls,  Mass.  He  and  his 
wife  Drucie  have  two  children,  Kurt  and 
Andrea. . . .  Jim  Crittenden  presently  serves 
as  president  of  OMP  Laboratories,  Inc., 
Killingworth,  Conn.,  a  firm  which  he  helped 
found  in  1976  and  moved  to  Killingworth 
in  January.  OMP  manufactures  medical 
diagnostic  equipment. . .  .  Gordon  Govalet 
now  holds  the  post  of  assistant  chief  en- 
gineer at  Thames  Valley  Steel  Corp.  in  New 

London,  Conn This  September  Michael 

Hitchko  returns  to  BU  to  complete  his 
MBA,  after  spending  the  last  two  years 
with  Fluor  Corp.  constructing  cross  country 
pipelines  in  Saudi  Arabia. . . .  Ernest  Joyal  is 
employed  by  the  Naval  Underwater  Sys- 
tems Center  in  Newport,  R.I. 


Kenneth  Kowalchek  serves  overseas  as  a 
financial  analyst  for  U.S.  Aid,  Dept.  of 

State,  Washington,  D.C Robert  Mills, 

Jr.,  has  been  appointed  director  of  market 
research  in  the  marketing  organization  at 
State  Mutual  Life  Assurance  Company  of 
America  in  Worcester.  He  joined  State 
Mutual's  actuarial  organization  as  an  actu- 
arial assistant  in  1 971 ,  was  promoted  to 
actuarial  associate  in  1973,  senior  actuarial 
associate  in  1974,  and  assistant  actuary  in 
1975.  He  became  a  fellow  in  the  Society  of 
Actuaries  in  1975,  and  earned  the  Char- 
tered Life  Underwriter  designation  in  1 977. 
. . .  Thomas  Pandolfi  was  just  promoted  to 
group  leader,  software,  atVarian  As- 
sociates in  Palo  Alto,  Calif. 

Dr.  Richard  San  Antonio  is  completing 
his  residency  in  internal  medicine  and  his 
wife,  Pamela,  her  residency  in  pediatrics  at 
Walter  Reed  Army  Medical  Center  in 
Washington,  D.C.  They  are  currently  as- 
signed at  Fort  Meade,  Md. .  . .  Now  out  of 
the  Air  Force,  James  Troutman  presently 
serves  as  head  of  vendor  quality  engineer- 
ing at  Computervision  Corp.  in  Bedford, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Glenn  White  is  working  on  his 
PhD  dissertation  at  the  National  Center  for 
Atmospheric  Research  in  Boulder,  Colo. 
The  dissertation  involves  the  observational 
study  of  the  general  circulation  in  the 
Northern  Hemisphere  in  summertime. 


1972 


Secretary: 

John  A  Woodward 

101  Putnam  St 

Representative: 

Lesley  E  Small  Zorabedian 

16  Parkview  Rd 

Orange,  MA 
01364 

Reading,  MA 
01867 

>Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Raymond  W. 
Coleman,  a  son  Gregory  James,  on  March 

13, 1979 to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Mark  Dupuis, 

theirsecond  daughter,  Kelly,  on  November 

10,  1978 to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Donald 

Polonis,  a  son,  Timmy,  on  December  27, 
1978. 

Douglas  Best,  who  currently  works  for 
Cincinnati  Milacron-Heald  Division,  is  a 
registered  professional  engineer  in  Mas- 
sachusetts. . .  .  Charles  Brine  has  success- 
fully completed  the  PhD  program  at  the 
College  of  Marine  Studies  at  the  University 
of  Delaware,  where  he  concentrated  in  the 
area  of  marine  chemistry  (chemical 
oceanography).    . .  James  Colangelo 
started  on  a  fellowship  in  nephrology  at 

Boston  V.A.  Hospital  in  July The  Robert 

Colps  have  a  "wonderful  two-year-old 
daughter."  Colp  is  with  Foster  Wheeler 
Energy  Corp.  in  Livingston,  N.J. . . .  Andrew 
Cuchiara  has  been  awarded  a  PhD  in  bio- 
statistics  from  the  University  of  Oklahoma 
lat  Norman.  He  has  a  master's  degree  from 
WPI .  Next  fall  he  leaves  for  Japan  where  he 
will  be  employed  in  the  atomic  casualty 
division  of  the  International  Health  Unit. . . . 


Summer  1979 /The  WPI  Journal/ 41 


I    I 


i    I      i 


Theodore  Fredericks  is  now  a  program 
manager  in  Rockwell  International's  Collins 
Telecommunications  Systems  Division.  The 
firm  deals  primarily  in  government  airborne 
systems. 

Andy  Glazier  is  employed  by  the  Perini 
Corporation  atthe  Seabrook  (N.H.)  nuclear 
power  plant.  The  $2.3  billion  plant,  which  is 
being  constructed  for  the  Public  Service 
Company  of  New  Hampshire,  is  scheduled 
to  have  its  first  reactor  operational  in  1 982. 
. . .  Linda  Gordon  serves  as  a  project  leader 
at  Data  General  Corp.,  Westboro,  Mass — 
In  March,  Howard  Levine  presented  a 
paper  before  the  American  Physical  Society 
in  Chicago.  Levine  is  a  graduate  student 
member  of  the  Rutgers  University  commit- 
tee to  evaluate  all  athletic  policies  on  cam- 
pus. . . .  Edward  Perkins  has  joined  Digital 
Equipment  Corp.,  Maynard,  Mass.,  where 
he  is  a  senior  software  engineer  in  the  RT/C 
Small  Systems  Software  Development 
Group. . .  .  Presently,  T.  Richard  Price  is 
workingfor  Deevy  and  Shannon,  Inc.,  con- 
sulting engineers  in  Beaumont,  Texas. 

David  Riedel  is  a  technical  specialist  for 
Aetna  Life  &  Casualty  in  Hartford,  Conn. 
He  received  his  MS  in  computer  science 
from  UConn  last  year.  .  . .  Shawn  Sullivan 
serves  as  a  services  engineer  at  Amstar 
Corp.,  Charlestown,  Mass. . . .  Donald  Taft 
is  employed  by  the  Courier  Corporation, 
Lowell,  Mass.  He,  his  wife  Mary,  and  two 
children  live  in  Nashua,  N.H.  .  .  .  Richard 
Wallace  works  as  a  senior  field  engineer  at 
Simpson  Gumpertz  &  Heger,  Inc.  in  Cam- 
bridge, Mass.  .  .  .  With  Norton  since  1972, 
Richard  Willey  is  now  a  manufacturing 
engineer  in  the  large  vitrified  wheel  area  of 
the  grinding  wheel  division  in  Worcester. . . 
"Jack"  Zorabedian,  Jr.,  holds  the  post  of 
production  engineer  at  GE  in  Wilmington, 
Mass.  He  is  a  member  of  the  planning 
board  in  Reading,  Mass.,  where  he  is  also  a 
town  meeting  member.  He  is  active  with 
AVPAC,  a  political  action  committee. 


1973 


Secretary: 

Representative: 

Jay  J  Schnitzer 

Robert  R  Wood 

322  St.  Paul  St. 

14  Stone  Brook  Rd 

Apt.  #3 

Sudbury,  MA 

Brookline,  MA 

01776 

02146 

^■Married:  James  N.  Paprocki  and  Miss 
Patricia  S.  Pollock  on  March  10, 1979  in 
Irondequoit,  New  York.  The  bride 
graduated  from  Genesee  Hospital  School 
of  Nursing.  She  is  presently  employed  at 
the  hospital,  and  is  also  attending  Nazareth 
College.  The  groom  is  a  computer  analyst 
at  Eastman  Kodak  Company. . .  .  Martin  J. 
Sklar  and  Janis  L.  Price  recently  in  Ran- 
dolph, Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Sklar 
graduated  from  the  University  of  Toledo, 
and  is  with  the  American  Red  Cross  blood 
services,  Northeast  region.  Her  husband  is 
with  Corning  Medical  Instruments. 


*Born:  to  Stephen  and  Deborah  La- 
Plante  Goodwin,  their  second  child,  An- 
drew Hilton,  on  February  28, 1979.  Their 
first  child,  Tracey,  will  be  three  in  August. 
They  write:  "We  are  still  enjoying  the 
sunny  South  and  warm  weather."  ...  to 
Richard  and  Dianne  Lamberto  Sargent, 
75,  their  third  child,  Rebekah  on  De- 
cember 28,  1979.  Rebekah  joins  Julie,  41/2, 
and  Peter,  3.  Sargent  is  a  senior  project 
engineer  at  Sala  Magnetics,  Inc.,  an  Allis 
Chalmers  subsidiary,  in  Cambridge,  Mass. . 
.  .  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Norman  D.  Staller,  a 
daughter  Breana  Rae,  on  January  30, 1 979. 
Norman  has  been  promoted  to  senior  en- 
gineer at  Polaroid  in  Cambridge,  Mass. 

Richard  Belmonte  has  become  the  sys- 
tem safety  engineer  for  the  test  and  evalua- 
tion of  Army  materiel  at  Aberdeen  Proving 
Ground,  Md. .  .  .  Richard  Brontoli  con- 
tinues in  Baumholder,  Germany  with  the 

293rd  Engineers  Battalion Ray  Cheren- 

zia,  a  former  WPI  wrestler,  directs  the 
wrestling  program  at  the  Westerly  (R.I.) 
YMCA.  Recently,  two  of  the  boys  he 
coached  placed  first  and  second  in  the 
Connecticut  A.A.U.  freestyle  open  cham- 
pionships. Ray,  who  is  also  the  director  of 
the  Rhode  Island  Kids  Wrestling  Federa- 
tion, istownengineerfor  Westerly Still 

with  GE,  John  DiGregorio  is  presently  a 
project  engineer  located  in  Pittsfield,  Mass. 
.  . .  Stephen  Dolan  received  his  MD  from 
the  University  of  Vermont  College  of 
Medicine  in  Burlington  last  May.  He  is  now 
interning  in  internal  medicine  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Missouri. 

In  February,  Herbert  Hedberg  was  pro- 
moted to  test  engineering  manager  at 
Waters  Associates  in  Milford,  Mass. . . . 
David  Hubbell,  MD,  writes:  "Am  halfway 
through  a  residency  in  obstetrics  and 

gynecology."  He  is  located  in  San  Diego 

No  longer  with  Exxon,  Christopher  Kralik  is 
now  a  process  design  engineer  in  the  petro- 
leum group  at  C.E.  Lummus  in  Bloomfield, 
N.J.  .  . .  Andrew  Langdon,  who  holds  an 
MBA  from  Wharton  (University  of 
Pennsylvania),  is  with  Pennwalt  Corp.  in 
Philadelphia.  .  .  .  Ken  Lexier  received  his 
PhD  in  education  from  Boston  University  in 
May. 

Wallace  McKenzie,  Jr.,  has  been  named 
special  gifts  chairman  in  Saugus  (Mass.)  for 
the  1979  American  Cancer  Society 
Crusade.  He  is  a  financial  and  planning 
consultant  at  Management  Decision  Sys- 
tems of  Waltham.  Formerly,  he  was  a 
senior  research  analyst  at  Converse  Rubber 
of  Wilmington.  Currently,  he  is  a  member 
of  the  Saugus  Finance  Committee  and 
serves  on  the  Citizen  Advisory  Council  for 
the  Massachusetts  Coastal  Zone  Manage- 
ment Program.  He  has  been  a  town  meet- 
ing memberfrom  Precinct  One  since  1975. 
.  .  .  David  Moomaw  has  again  taken  a  job 
at  Fisher-Price,  where  he  is  in  a  new  group 
called  Technical  Design  and  Development. 
He  says,  "We  will  be  investigating  future 
product  concepts  as  far  ahead  as  the  1 988 
line  of  toys." 


Robert  Newman  holds  the  post  of  senior 
systems  programmer  at  Data  Terminal  Sys- 
tems, Maynard,  Mass. . . .  William  Nutteris 
presently  supporting  installation  for  GE  of 
the  Trident  missile  fire  control  system  at 
Electric  Boat  in  Groton,  Conn,  on  the  U.S. S. 
Michigan,  and  is  supporting  testing  of  the 
Trident  missile  fire  control  system  on  the 
U.S.S.  Ohio.  (These  are  the  first  two  Trident 
submarines  to  be  built.)  He  also  aided  in  the 
installation  of  the  Trident/C4  missile  fire 
control  system  on  the  U.S.S.  Frances  Scott 
Key  last  fall. . .  .  Formerly,  with  Cullinane 
Corp.  in  IDMS  development  and  support, 
Bruce  Olsen  is  now  the  newly  appointed 
systems  programmer  in  the  General  Sys- 
tems Division  of  Management  Decision 
Systems,  Inc.,  in  Waltham,  Mass.  The  firm 
is  a  privately-held,  national  leader  in  the 
development  and  use  of  problem-solving 
models  and  computer  software  for  busi- 
ness analysis  and  planning.  Olsen  will  be 
working  with  MDS's  financial  product,  a 
subset  of  its  Express  software.  Earlier,  he 
had  been  a  senior  systems  programmer  for 
Melville  Corporation. 

Last  summer  Paul  Parulis  was  promoted 
to  senior  engineer  at  General  Dynamics 
Electric  Boat. . . .  Daniel  Prior  is  chairman  of 
the  underground  training  development 
committee  for  New  England  Electric  Sys- 
tem, Westboro,  Mass. . . .  Stephen  Robin- 
son is  employed  at  Honeywell  Information 
Systems  as  manager  of  computer  terminals 
marketing  support.  Recently,  he  was  a 
candidate  for  a  three-year  term  on  the 
board  of  selectmen  in  Litchfield,  N.H. . . . 
Mark  Whitley  is  a  reservoir  engineer  at 
Shell  Oil  Co.  in  New  Orleans,  La.  .  .  .  Mary 
Zoeller  holds  the  post  of  product  marketing 
engineer  at  Hewlett  Packard  Company  in 
San  Diego,  Calif. 


1974 


Secretary 

Representative: 

James  F  Rubino 

David  G  Lapre 

18  Landings  Way 

PO  Box  384 

Avon  Lake,  OH 

Tunkhannock,  PA 

44012 

18657 

►fiom.  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  William  Dewkett, 
a  son,  Matthew  Ryan,  on  September  12, 
1978. ...  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Michael  J. 
Kozakiewicz,  a  daughter,  Melissa,  on  Feb- 
ruary 9, 1 979 to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  R. 

Mason  III,  their  first  child,  a  daughter, 
Hilary  Alexandra,  on  February  6, 1979. 

After  graduating  from  Georgetown  Uni- 
versity Law  Center,  Alden  Bianchi  will  join 
the  Chicago  law  firm  of  Hume,  Clement, 
Brinks,  Willian  and  Olds.  The  firm's  practice 
is  limited  to  patent  and  antitrust  matters, 
both  national  and  international. .  .  .  Wil- 
liam Block  now  works  at  Southern  New 
England  Telephone,  New  Haven,  Conn., 
where  he  is  a  data  systems  specialist. . . . 


42 /The  WPI  journal / Summer  1979 


Rod  Broeker  serves  as  an  instrument  and 
control  systems  engineer  for  SIP  Engineers 
and  Contractors  in  Houston,  Texas.  He  is 
still  active  in  tournament  chess,  and  is  the 
Texas  Chess  Association's  secretary- 
treasurer.  His  wife,  Annie,  an  economic 
evaluator  for  Badische  Corp.,  has  won  the 
1979  Outstanding  Young  Engineer  Award. 
Wayne  Bryant  continues  as  manager  of 
the  systems  programming  group  at  Com- 
position Systems  Inc.,  Elmsford,  N.Y. 

Christopher  Cigal  is  assistant  professor 
of  military  science  in  the  ROTC  department 
at  Washington  &  Jefferson  College  in 

Washington,  Pa Early  this  year,  Steve 

Dacri,  now  headquartered  in  Hollywood, 
returned  East  for  performances  at  Worces- 
ter State  College  and  the  Society  of  Ameri- 
can Magicians  in  Nashua,  N.H.  He  is  pursu- 
ing a  television  acting  career Capt. 

Robert  Foley,  USMC,  is  located  in  Beaufort, 
S.C. .  . .  Presently,  Thomas  Frink  is  em- 
ployed as  an  industrial  electrical  engineer. 
He  is  active  in  St.  Joseph's  Catholic  Church, 
Salem,  N.H.,  especially  with  high  school 
youth  programs.  He  is  considering  a  reli- 
gious vocation Alan  Hahnel  holds  the 

post  of  chief  engineer  at  Winfrey  Structural 

Concrete  Co.  in  Boulder,  Colo David 

Nickless  is  a  student  at  Suffolk  University 
Law  School  in  Boston. 

Louis  Piscitelle  is  employed  as  a  research 
engineer  at  Stowe-Woodard  Co.  in  New- 
ton, Mass Anne  Rodier  has  been 

appointed  second  vice  president  of  pension 
financial  operations  at  Union  Mutual  Life 
Insurance  Company  in  Portland,  Maine. 
She  joined  the  company  in  1974  as  a 
pension  service  coordinator  trainee.  Today 
she  is  responsible  for  group  pension  ac- 
counting and  actuarial  functions.  She  is  a 

fellow  of  the  Society  of  Actuaries 

Currently,  William  Russell  serves  as 
plant  engineer  at  Acigraf  International 

Corp.  in  Branford,  Conn Still  with  Patti 

Bros.,  Sudbury,  Mass.,  James  Sgroi  now 
holds  the  position  of  vice  president  of 
manufacturing. 

In  February,  William  Stafford  received 
his  professional  engineering  license.  He  has 
been  promoted  to  chemical  and  geotechni- 
cal  branch  manager  at  Walker  Labora- 
tories, Inc.,  Columbia,  S.C.  .  .  .  Alfred 
Swierad,  Jr.  is  a  member  of  the  technical 
staff  at  Bell  Telephone  Labs  in  Holmdel, 
N.J. . . .  Lee  Turner  holds  the  post  of 
manager  of  operations  and  financial 
analysis  at  DWG  Corp.  in  Miami  Beach,  Fla. 
. . .  Richard  Ventre  now  works  as  a  produc- 
tion supervisor  on  the  Surlyn  unit  at  du 
Pont. 


W 


1975 


Secretary 

Representative 

James  D  Aceto,  Jr 

Frederick  J  Cordelia 

70  Sunnyview  Dr. 

24  Imperial  Rd 

Vernon,  CT 

Worcester,  MA 

06066 

01604 

^Married:  Peter  J.  Arcoma  and  Regina  M. 
Kozlowski  on  April  28,  1979  in  Fairfield, 
Connecticut.  Mrs.  Arcoma  graduated  from 
Briarwood  School  for  Women  and  is  an 
executive  secretary  at  Stauffer  Chemical 
Company,  Westport.  Her  husband  is  a 
project  manager  for  H.  Wales  Lines  Com- 
pany in  Meriden.  .  . .  Glenn  R.  Ekwall  and 
Delia  L.  Copley  on  April  21,1 979  in  Bar- 
boursville,  West  Virginia.  Mrs.  Ekwall 
graduated  from  Marshall  University  and  is 
a  music  teacher  in  Ashland,  Ky.  The  groom 
works  as  a  technical  service  engineer  at 

U.O.P.,  Des  Plaines,  III Stephen  Fitz- 

hugh  and  Joan  Sposito  on  May  6,  1978  in 
Manchester,  Connecticut.  The  groom  has 
held  a  new  post  as  product  development 
engineer  at  GE  since  October —  Robert  D. 
Klimm,  Jr.,  to  Miss  Margaret  I.  Healy  on 
April  21,  1979  in  Branford,  Connecticut. 
Mrs.  Klimm  is  a  Becker  graduate.  The 
bridegroom  has  an  MSCE  from  Northeast- 
ern  Stephen  Wojciak  to  Ruth  Kodis, 

MS  79,  last  August.  The  bride  works  for  III 
Systems  of  Cambridge,  Mass.  and  is  a 
graduate  of  Catholic  University.  Her  hus- 
band is  a  development  engineer  for  GE  in 
Schenectady,  N.Y. 

►fiorn.  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Steven  F.  Manzi, 
a  son,  Brennan  Steven,  on  October  1 7, 
1978.  In  February,  Manzi  was  transferred 
to  the  Waltham  Medical  Division  of  the 
Hewlett-Packard  Company,  where  he  is  a 
mechanical  design  engineer. ...  to  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  David  Schwartz,  a  daughter,  Jennifer 
Leigh,  on  November  10,  1978.  David  is  a 
position  area  engineer  at  Daniel  Interna- 
tional Corp.  in  Fulton,  Missouri. 

Continuing  as  plant  engineer  for  Tarn- 
pax,  Inc.,  Rutland,  Bruce  Altobelli  recently 
purchased  a  house  in  Clarendon,  Vt. . . . 
Last  September,  Joel  Angelico  joined 
Polaroid  Corp.  in  Norwood,  Mass. . . .  Rick 
Aseltine  has  accepted  a  new  post  with  the 
GE  Medical  Systems  Division,  where  he  is  a 
systems  design  engineer  working  on  com- 
puterized axial  tomography  whole  body 
scanning.  He  is  located  in  New  Berlin, 
Wisconsin. . . .  Norton  Bonaparte,  Jr., 
serves  as  administrative  assistant  to  the  city 
manager  in  Grand  Rapids,  Mich.  He  holds  a 
master's  degree  in  Public  Administration 

from  Cornell Karen  Brozowski  has 

been  transferred  and  promoted  from  pro- 
cess engineer,  Corning  Glass,  Central  Falls, 
to  senior  process  engineer,  Corning  Medi- 
cal RIA  Division,  Corning  Glass  Works, 
Medfield,  Mass. . . .  Thomas  Colp  receives 
his  Doctor  of  Optometry  from  New  En- 
gland College  of  Optometry  this  year 


Harry  Danberg  has  joined  Monsanto  Corp. 
in  Miamisburg,  Ohio,  where  he  is  woorking 
with  DOE  on  coal  gasification  projects. 

Judith  Nitsch  Donnellan,  who  recently 
was  named  the  first  woman  vice  president 
of  Schofield  Brothers,  Inc.  and  head  of  the 
firm's  Freeman  Engineering  office  in 
Attleboro,  Mass.,  was  one  of  several 
women  engineers  quoted  in  the  article, 
"Women  engineers:  here  to  stay,"  which 
appeared  in  the  May  issue  of  ASCE's  Civil 
Engineering.  The  article  was  concerned 
with  discrimination  against  women  en- 
gineers in  government  and  industry. 

Last  fall,  John  Fitzpatrick  ran  the  New 
York  Marathon  (his  first)  in  3:46.  Still  with 
Exxon,  he  is  also  studying  for  his  MBA  at 
Rutgers.  His  wife,  Ginny  Giordano  Fitzpa- 
trick, is  a  systems  marketing  representative 
for  Service  Bureau  Company.  She  is  work- 
ing for  her  MBA  at  Fairleigh  Dickinson 
University. 

Dave  Fowler  of  Information  Services  at 
American  Can  Company,  was  slated  to  run 
in  the  Greenwich  (Conn.)  5-mile  Road  Race 
in  April.  Prior  to  the  race,  he  ran  about  six 
miles  a  day,  but  considers  that  ten  miles  a 
day  would  have  been  "serious  training." 
Dave,  who  has  a  new  daughter,  goes  to 
NYU  at  night,  where  he  is  studying  for  his 
MBA.  "There  are  lots  of  things  in  the 
cooker  right  now,"  he  says. 

Dr.  Charles  Innis,  Jr.,  holder  of  a  PhD 
from  WPI,  has  been  appointed  to  the  post 
of  senior  research  engineer  in  the  Morgoil 
Bearing  Department  at  Morgan  Construc- 
tion Company,  Worcester.  Previously,  he 
had  done  engineering  for  the  firm  on  high 
speed  rolling  mill  equipment  and  had  per- 
formed economic  analysis  on  existing  and 
new  mills.  Earlier,  he  had  taught  engineer- 
ing at  UConn  and  had  been  associated  with 
Electric  Boat.  He  belongs  to  ASME  and  the 
American  Society  of  Lubrication  Engineers. 
He  is  on  the  executive  committee  of  the 
Worcester  chapter  of  ASME.  His  most  re- 
cent publication  is  "Predicting  Mechanical 
Design  Reliability  Using  Weighted  Fault 
Trees,"  Failure  Prevention  and  Reliability, 
ASME,  1977. 

Tom  John  is  an  instructor  in  chemical 
engineering  at  Cleveland  (Ohio)  State  Uni- 
versity. .  .  .  Continuing  with  Sikorsky  Air- 
craft, Stratford,  Conn.,  Edward  Karedes 
now  works  as  design  engineer. . . .  Gene 
LaCroix  was  recently  promoted  to  Lasalign 
product  manager  for  Diamond  Engineering 
Corp.  Formerly  product  supervisor,  LaCroix 
has  been  instrumental  in  developing  new 
electronics  and  packaging  for  the  laser  light 

guideline  used  in  the  lumber  and  wood 
products  industries.  He  has  had  extensive 
experience  in  quality  control  management 
with  Texas  Instruments.  In  his  new  post,  he 
will  be  responsible  for  product  marketing 
and  new  application  consulting  for  saw 
mills,  veneer  and  plywood  plants,  parti- 
cleboard  converters,  furniture  and  other 
wood  product  manufacturers. 


Summer  1919 /The  WPI  Journal/ 43 


*•  .Mi 


■»». 


Robert  Martinaitis  is  a  member  of  the 
technical  staff  at  Hughes  Aircraft  Company 
in  Fullerton,  Calif. . . .  Richard  Perreault, 
who  lives  in  Westboro,  Mass.,  now  works 
as  a  field  engineer  for  circuit  test  products 
at  Hewlett-Packard  in  Lexington Chris- 
tine Powers  is  a  project  engineer  at  Baxter 
Travenol,  Deerfield,  Illinois. . .  .  Francis 
Schlegel  received  his  MBA  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  New  Haven  in  January. . . .  Since 
the  first  of  the  year,  Steven  Sweeney  has 
been  working  for  the  naval  plant  repre- 
sentative (special  projects  officer)  at  GE  in 
Pittsfield,  Mass.,  where  he  is  an  industrial 
engineer.  He  has  received  his  MBA  from 
the  University  of  Hartford. 


1976 


Secretary 

Paula  E.  Stratouly 

318Thornberry  Court 

Pittsburgh,  PA 

15237 


Representative: 
LynneM.  Buckley 
648  Commercial  St. 
Braintree,  MA 
02184 


^Married:  Nancy  B.  Duncanson  and  Don 

Golba  of  Buffalo,  New  York  on  April  21 , 
1979.  Both  the  bride  and  groom  work  in 
the  Linde  Division  of  Union  Carbide.  . . .  H. 
Warren  Fairbanks  III  to  Peggy  A.  Walker  in 
Whitinsville,  Massachusetts  on  April  7, 
1979.  Mrs.  Fairbanks  graduated  from 
Worcester  State  College  and  is  a  speech 
therapist  in  the  Bellingham  school  system. 
The  bridegroom  is  with  Thermo  Engineer- 
ing, Inc.,  Worcester. 

David  Altieri  has  changed  jobs.  Now  he 
is  employed  as  an  education  representative 
with  Honeywell  Information  Systems.  Al- 
though he  is  based  at  Wellesley  (Mass.) 
Education  Center,  he  travels  to  customer 
sites  throughout  this  country  and  Europe. 
. . .  John  Arden,  Jr.,  works  for  Stone  & 
Webster  in  Boston.  .  .  .  Alan  Briggs  writes 
that  he  completed  the  Boston  Marathon  in 
2  hours  48  minutes.  .  .  .  Hugo  Cuevas,  Jr., 
who  received  his  master's  in  fisheries  and 
allied  aquacultures  at  the  International 
Centerfor  Aquaculture,  Auburn  (Ala.)  Uni- 
versity last  year,  is  presently  working  in  his 
home  country,  Colombia,  at  Recursos  S.A., 
a  fishing  company.  He  is  also  doing  consult- 
ing work  on  fish  culture  development.  .  . . 
David  Graham  has  earned  his  MS  in  math- 
ematics with  high  honors  from  Worcester 
State  College. 

In  February,  Stephen  Jennette  became  a 
systems  programmer  after  being  an  appli- 
cations programmer  for  a  year  and  a  half  at 
Norton  Co. . . .  William  ( "B.J.")  Johnson 
continues  as  director  of  programs  for  Phi 
Gamma  Delta  Fraternity  in  Lexington,  Ky. 


. .  Roger  Locantore  is  a  lab  facilities  en- 
gineer at  Hamilton  Standard  in  Windsor 
Locks,  Conn. . . .  Presently,  Steven  and 
Madeleine  Gauthier  Lowe  are  engineers 
with  the  York  (Pa.)  Division  of  Borg 
Warner.  . . .  Since  January,  John  Manning 
has  been  working  for  Megatest  Corp.  as  an 
applications  and  marketing  engineer.  The 
home  plant  is  in  San  Jose,  Calif.  John  has 
opened  an  East  Coast  sales  office  in 

Wakefield,  Mass Robert  Milk  has  been 

transferred  to  Raleigh,  N.C.  as  project 
manager  for  Electronic  Data  Systems. . . . 
1/Lt.  Michael  Miller  is  with  the  U.S.  Army 
Corps  of  Engineers  at  Ft.  Rucker,  Ala. 
1/Lt.  Edward  Perry  II  of  the  Foreign 
Technology  Division  at  Wright- Patterson 
AFB,  Ohio,  recently  received  the  Air  Force 
Commendation  Medal.  He  was  presented 
with  the  award  for  his  work  as  a  computer 
system  plans  and  programming  officer  at 
Robins  AFB,  Georgia  from  1976  to  1978. 
. . .  Wayne  Pryor  is  a  systems  coordinator 
for  Data  General  in  Massachusetts. . . . 
Having  left  Ford  Motor  Co.,  Charles  Put- 
nam is  now  a  development  engineer  at 
Machlett  Laboratories  in  Stamford,  Conn. . 
. .  Raymond  Robey  holds  the  post  of  re- 
search engineer  at  A.D.  Little,  Inc.,  Cam- 
bridge, Mass.  .  .  .  Paul  Selent  works  for 
Exxon  Research  &  Engineering  in  Florham 
Park,  N.J.  .  . .  Since  January,  William  Van 
Herwarde  has  held  a  new  post  as  an  en- 
gineer in  one  facet  of  GE's  nuclear  program 
in  Schenectady,  N.Y.  He  is  utilizing  his  past 
experience  with  pumps. . . .  Kevin  Wall  is  a 
physicist  at  GE  in  Schenectady.  .  .  .  Robert 
Winter  was  recently  appointed  assistant 
district  manager  of  the  Baltimore  District  of 
Raymond  International  Builders,  Inc.  Prior 
to  accepting  sales  engineering  assignments 
with  the  Pile  Group,  Bob  was  assigned  to 
Pile  and  Spencer,  White  and  Prentis  jobs  as 
project  manager  and  superintendent. 


1977 


Secretary 

Representative: 

Kathleen  Molony 

Christopher  D  Baker 

Apt  #1 

P.O.  Box  35 

29  Seaview  Ave 

Page,  AZ 

Norwalk,  CT 

86040 

06855 

^■Married:  Leo  J.  Cappabrianca  and  Mar- 
garet Granata  on  February  11,1 979.  The 
couple  moved  to  Colorado  in  March.  The 
groom  is  an  electronic  design  engineer  at 
Digital  Equipment  Corp.  in  Colorado 
Springs.  .  .  .  Steven  B.  Kovnerto  Marcia 
Gracie  on  December  18,  1978.  The  bride  is 
a  junior  majoring  in  chemistry  at  Brown 
University. . . .  Ronald  A.  Rice  to  Miss  Rene 
R.  Price  in  Worcester  on  March  2,  1 979. 
Mrs.  Rice  attended  Northeastern  Univer- 
sity, Boston,  and  plans  to  attend  Cape 
Coral  (Fla.)  School  of  Hair  Design  this  fall. 
Her  husband  is  currently  a  painting  con- 
tractor in  Holden,  Mass. 


Michael  Abrams  graduates  with  an  as- 
sociate degree  in  electronic  engineering 
from  Nashville  State  Technical  Institute  in 
September. . . .  Stephen  Albino  works  as  a 
components  engineer  at  Prime  Computer 
Company,  Framingham,  Mass. . . .  Chris 
Baker  is  a  civil  engineer  with  the  Arizona 
Department  of  Transportation. . . .  John 
Brady  serves  as  a  product  marketing  en- 
gineer at  Texas  Instruments  in  Houston 

"Biff"  Braswell,  who  continues  with  GE  in 
the  large  steam  turbine  department, 
Schenectady,  is  also  pursuing  his  master's 
degree  at  RPI.  .  .  .  Previously  with  AT&T 
Long  Lines,  Bill  Cunningham  is  now  with 
Data  General  in  Westboro,  Mass.,  where 
he  is  a  data  communications  instructor  in 
the  marketing  department. . . .  Robert 
Dolan  is  a  material  utilization  analyst  at  the 
Ford  Motor  Co.  stamping  plant  in  Cleve- 
land. He  was  recently  promoted  to  his 
present  post  from  the  production  schedul- 
ing department. 

Robert  Ferrari  holds  the  post  of  project 
engineer  at  Chas.  T.  Main  Engineers  in 
Boston. . . .  Kenneth  Fox  is  an  account 
associate  in  sales  support  at  the  Foxboro 
Company  in  West  Hartford,  Conn. . . . 
Frank  Gilbert  serves  as  supervisor  of  ven- 
dor control,  mechanical  test  consultant,  at 
Wyman  Gordon  in  North  Grafton,  Mass. 
. . .  Recently,  Eric  Hertz  was  promoted  to 
account  executive  II  at  AT&T  Long  Lines  in 
White  Plains,  N.Y.  He  is  responsible  for  the 
Pepsico  national  account.  For  recreation, 
he  jogs  on  the  beach  at  Old  Greenwich, 
Conn. . . .  Brian  Huff  is  a  project  engineer  at 
Ingersoll-Rand  Research  in  Princeton,  N.J. 
.  . .  Jim  Leighton  works  as  an  assistant 
engineerat  Raytheon  Missile  Systems,  Bed- 
ford, Mass. ...  J.  Barry  Livingston  is  a 
software  engineerat  Digital  Equipment 
Corp.  in  Merrimack,  N.H. 

Currently,  Marc  Meunier  is  a  field  en- 
gineer covering  southern  Florida  for  Indus- 
trial Risk  Insurers.  He  is  located  in  Miami. 
. . .  Michael  Oakes  received  his  MSEE  from 
the  University  of  Illinois  in  May. . . .  Mark 
Puputti  serves  as  a  production  engineer  at 
Polaroid  Corp.  in  Waltham,  Mass. . . .  Dave 
Ramsden  is  at  medical  school  in  Chicago. . . 
.  Allan  Shear  is  a  class  II  engineer  for  the 

City  of  Woonsocket,  R.I Robert  Stack 

has  joined  the  Wayne  (Newark)  office, 
York  Division,  Borg-Warner  Corporation. . 
.  .  Dan  Sullivan  is  a  self-employed  consul- 
tant in  Auburndale,  Mass.  .  .  .  Robert 
Thompson  works  as  a  systems  programmer 
at  McDonnell  Douglas  in  St.  Louis,  Mo. 


44/ The  WPl  journal / Summer  1979 


1978 

Secretary 
Cynthia  Grynick 
303  Wolcott  St. 
Waterbury,  CT 
06705 

^Married:  William  T.  Davis,  Jr.  and  Beth 
Raymond,  79,  on  January  27,  1979.  The 
groom  is  working  as  an  electrical  engineer 
doing  logic  design  at  Sperry  Univac  in 

Bluebell,  Pa Mark  J.  Hebertto  Eileen 

McGregor  on  January  6,  1979.  Currently, 
the  bridegroom  is  a  teaching  assistant  in 
the  ME  department  at  WPI,  where  he  is 
working  for  his  MS.  .  .  .  Lawrence  N. 
Parretti,  Jr.,  and  Miss  Victoria  L.  Livngstton 
on  February  17,  1979  in  Cornwall,  New 
York.  Mrs.  Parretti  graduated  from 
Worcester  State  College.  Her  husband  is 
employed  by  Perini  Corp. 

Gerald  Baird,  Jr.,  is  a  second  lieutenant  in 
the  U.S.  Army  Ordnance  Corps.  .  .  .  Louis 
Collette  serves  as  a  mechanical  systems 
engineer  at  Rockwell  International  in 
Richardson,  Texas.  This  fall,  he  will  start 
graduate  school  at  Southern  Methodist 
University  in  Dallas,  where  he  will  study  for 
his  MSME.  He  and  his  wife  Debbie  live  in 
Allen,  Texas —  William  Collins  is  a  special 
projects  engineer  at  Stone  &  Webster,  Bos- 
ton. .  .  .  John  Crossin  works  as  a  senior 
mechanical  engineer  at  Digital  Equipment 
Corp.,  Tewksbury,  Mass.  He  and  his  wife 
Laurie  live  in  Stow. 

Adrienne  Dill  has  a  teaching  assist- 
antship  at  Georgia  Tech.  and  teaches  soils 
labs  while  studying  for  a  master's  in 
geotechnical  engineering. . . .  John 
Downes  is  an  environmental  engineer  in 
the  Division  of  Hazardous  Materials  in  the 
Kentucky  Dept.  of  Natural  Resources,  Co- 
lumbia, Ky. . . .  Jay  Gehrig  is  with  Raytheon 

in  Norwood,  Mass Bryce  Granger,  who 

works  for  Parker  Hannifin  Corp.,  has 
bought  a  house  in  Ravenna,  Ohio.  .  . . 
Dwight  Hardin  works  at  Control  Logic  in 
Natick,  Mass —  Keith  Herreman  serves  as 
a  division  representative  for  Westinghouse 
in  Athens,  Ga. . .    Eugene  Jakubowski  is  a 
product  marketing  engineer  at  Texas  In- 
struments in  Houston,  Texas. 

Recently,  Ken  Kummins  completed  an 
intensive  six  months  of  studies  at  Westing- 
house's  Nuclear  Plant  Engineer  School. 
Presently,  he  is  training  on  a  prototype  of  a 
nuclear  powered  aircraft  carrier.  After  his 
first  qualification  period  is  completed,  he 
will  be  a  qualified  engineering  officer  of  the 
watch. .  .  .  Frank  Leahy  is  completing  his 
master's  degree  in  operations  research  at 
the  University  of  California  at  Berkeley  and 
enjoys  "California  so  much  I've  decided  to 
take  a  job  here  next  year  with  Intel  Corp. ,  a 
semi-conductor  manufacturer  in  Santa 
Clara."  He'll  be  working  in  the  production 
planning  and  scheduling  department, 
where  the  plan  is  to  eventually  automate 
many  of  the  planning  processes  currently 


performed  manually. . .  .  Jim  Morris  is  an 
electrical  engineer  at  Motorola  in  Planta- 
tion, Fla. 

Jill  Neal  is  a  manufacturing  manage- 
ment trainee  at  GE  in  Cincinnati.  .  .  .  Rory 
O'Connor  serves  as  a  technical  writer  for 
systems  software  at  Wang  Laboratories  in 
Lowell,  Mass  .  .  .  Dimitrios  Promponas 
works  as  a  programmer  at  Prime  Com- 
puter, Inc.,  Framingham,  Mass.  .  . .  Larry 
Shiembob  is  employed  as  a  design  engineer 
at  Williams  Research,  Walled  Lake,  Michi- 
gan.     .  Karlis  Viceps  is  an  environmental 
engineer  at  Pickard  and  Anderson  in  Au- 
burn, NY. .  . .  William  Walton  is  studying 
for  his  MS  in  geotechnical  engineering  at 
Cornell  University. 


Kaps  go  the  distance  at  the  Boston 
Marathon,  April  16,  1979,  Hopkinton, 
Mass. 


Before:  (left  to  right)  Tony  Biancaniello, 
'62;  Pat  Moran,  '65;  Bill  Shields,  '65;  Les 
Hart,  '63;  Jim  Fee,  '65. 


After:  Celebrating  at  home  of  Bill 
Shields 


Summer  1979 /The  WPI  journal / 45 


School  of 

Industrial  Management 


William  Densmore,  '57,  was  recently 
named  vice  president  of  abrasive  opera- 
tions in  the  United  States  and  Canada  for 
Norton  Co.  Since  1971  he  had  served  as 
vice  president  and  general  manager  of  the 
grinding  wheel  division.  In  1946  he  joined 
Norton  as  an  industrial  engineer.  He  is  a 
registered  professional  engineer,  and 
serves  on  the  Management  Board  of  Ad- 
visors at  WPI. 

Arthur  Soderberg,  '55,  former  purchasing 
agent  at  Coes  Knife  Co.,  Worcester,  is 
retired  and  living  in  South  Dennis,  Mass. 

John  O'Malley,  '62,  controller  of  Holden 
(Mass.)  District  Hospital,  has  been  named 
to  the  Massachusetts  Hospital  Associa- 
tion's task  force  on  budgeting  and  cost 
efficiency.  He  is  on  the  MHA  Financial 
Advisory  Committee.  Controller  at  the 
hospital  for  13  years,  he  also  holds  ad- 
vanced membership  in  the  Hospital  Finan- 
cial Management  Association.  He  is  a  past 
president  of  the  Worcester  chapter,  Na- 
tional Association  of  Accountants,  and 
founder  and  chairman  of  Central  Mas- 
sachusetts (Hospital)  Controllers  Associa- 
tion. A  Bentley  College  graduate,  he  also 
has  an  MBA  from  Anna  Maria. 

Charles  Mason,  '65,  holds  the  position 
of  manager  of  U.S.  Steel  in  El  Dorado, 
Arkansas. 

Richard  Carroll,  '71 ,  has  been  named  direc- 
tor of  manufacturing  for  Hydr-O-Matic 
Pumps  in  Ashland,  Ohio.  The  firm  is  a 
leading  producer  of  waste  water  and  sew- 
age transfer  pumps  for  domestic,  industrial 
and  municipal  applications,  and  is  a  division 
of  Wylain  Inc.  of  Dallas.  Previously,  Carroll 
was  with  Weinman  Pump  Co.,  Columbus, 
arid  Warren  (Mass.)  Pumps,  Inc.,  where  he 
was  manager  of  manufacturing.  An  Air 
Force  veteran,  he  is  also  a  member  of  the 
Society  of  Manufacturing  Engineers  and 
the  American  Society  of  Metals. 

Arthur  Quitadamo,  '74,  holds  the  post  of 
vice  president  in  the  Commercial  Loan  De- 
partment at  Worcester  County  National 
Bank.  He  is  responsible  for  managing  the 
bank's  international  function.  Previously, 
he  was  corporate  credit  manager  for 
Crompton  &  Knowles  Corporation. 


Raymond  Jolie,  '77,  has  been  appointed 
treasurer  of  G.F.  Wright  Co.,  Worcester, 
He  joined  Wright  in  1 965,  and  was  most 
recently  assistant  treasurer  of  the  firm.  He 
belongs  to  the  Capital  Requirement  Com- 
mittee in  Sturbridge,  Mass.,  and  graduated 
from  New  England  School  of  Accounting. 

Joseph  Cusimano,  '78,  has  been  appointed 
field  sales  manager,  abrasive  marketing 
group,  at  Norton  Co.,  Worcester.  He 
started  work  at  Norton  in  1966,  and  has 
served  on  the  board  of  the  Young  Men's 
Business  Association  of  Worcester.  He 
graduated  from  Middlebury  College  in 
1 962 .  He  will  be  moving  back  to  Worcester 
from  Glastonbury,  Conn. 


Prof.  Richard  N.  Cobb,  John  E.  Sinclair 
professor  emeritus  of  mathematics  at  WPI, 
died  May  5, 1 979  at  his  home  in  San  Diego, 
California,  where  he  had  lived  since  1973. 

Prof.  Cobb  taught  at  WPI  for  27  years, 
and  was  head  of  the  mathematics  depart- 
ment for  three  years.  In  1 964  The  Pedlar 
was  dedicated  to  him.  In  1966  he  received 
the  WPI  Board  of  Trustees  Award  for  Out- 
standing Teaching.  He  was  a  member  of 
Skull. 

A  former  chairman  of  the  board  of 
deacons  and  former  clerk  of  the  First  Bap- 
tist Church  of  Worcester,  he  also  had  been 
a  member  of  the  La  Jolla,  Calif.  Presbyte- 
rian Church.  Previously,  he  was  affiliated 
with  the  Friends  of  the  Worcester  Free 
Public  Library  and  the  Worcester  Founda- 
tion for  Experimental  Biology. 

Prof.  Cobb  belonged  to  the  Mathemati- 
cal Association  of  America,  Phi  Beta  Kappa, 
Pi  Mu  Epsilon,  the  National  Council  of 
Teachers  of  Mathematics,  and  ASEE.  He 
graduated  from  Bowdoin  and  received  his 
master's  degree  from  Harvard  University. 
He  was  head  of  the  mathematics  depart- 
ment for  five  years  at  Deering  High  School 
in  Portland,  Me.,  and  had  taught  at  Willis- 
ton  Academy,  Los  Alamos  Ranch  School, 
Bowdoin,  Bates  College,  and  Lehigh  Uni- 
versity. He  was  born  on  June  5,  1911  in 
Portland,  Me. 

He  is  survived  by  his  wife,  Barbara  Cobb; 
a  daughter,  Suzanne  C.  Piatt  of  Edina, 
Minn.;  a  son,  Richard  D.  Cobb  of  Water- 
town,  Conn.;  and  two  grandchildren. 


46 /The  WPI  journal / Summer  1919 


Ernest  L.  Thrower,  '01 ,  a  retired  mining 
engineer  who  celebrated  his  100th  birth- 
day in  January,  died  on  March  14,  1979  in 
Cleveland,  Ohio. 

Mr.  Thrower  was  born  in  Brattleboro,  Vt. 
on  January  24, 1879.  In  1901  hegraduated 
as  a  mechanical  engineer  from  WPI.  He  had 
been  associated  with  Pope  Toledo  Co.; 
Brown  Hoisting  Machinery  Co.;  F.C. 
Greene  Engineering  Co.;  E.L.  Thrower, 
mining  engineers;  and  the  Great  Northern 
Railway.  He  joined  the  old  W.H.  Warner  & 
Co.,  Inc.  in  1913,  where  he  was  named 
general  manager  of  mines  in  1 920  and 
consulting  engineer  in  1929.  Later,  he  be- 
came vice  president  and  general  manager 
of  Warner  Collieries  Co. 

A  former  vice  chairman  of  the  Ohio  State 
Mine  Examining  Board,  Mr.  Thrower  was 
also  a  past  president  of  the  Canterbury  Golf 
Club  and  a  member  of  the  Cleveland  Ath- 
letic Club  and  the  Baptist  Church.  He  was  a 
past  secretary-treasurer  of  the  Cleveland 
chapter  of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association. 

Three  of  his  nephews  attended  WPI: 
EmmettA.  Thrower,  '27;  AlvinE.  Thrower, 
'30;  andCharles  W.  Thrower,  '52. 

!  Edward  A.  Hanff,  '10,  of  Pittsburgh, 
i  Pennsylvania,  a  retired  vice  president  of  the 
:  former  Swindell-Dressier  Co.,  died  on  Feb- 
ruary 16,  1979. 

He  was  born  on  November  29,  1 889  in 
i  Rutland,  Mass.  In  1910  he  received  his 
BSEE  from  WPI. 

Mr.  Hanff,  who  was  president  of  the 
class  of  1910,  belonged  to  a  number  of 
engineering  societies.  He  was  a  member  of 
the  National  Watch  and  Clock  Club.  In  the 
1950's  he  retired  from  Swindell's  (now 
Pullman-Swindell  Co.)  engineering 
department. 


George  E.  Clifford,  '12,  of  Ann  Arbor, 
Michigan,  passed  away  on  March  29, 
!1979.  He  was  90  years  old. 

From  1 929  to  1 953  he  was  with  Wol- 
verine Tube  in  Detroit,  where  he  retired  as 
plant  engineer.  From  1 954  to  1 958  he  did 
part-time  work  in  the  Willow  Run  Labora- 
tory of  the  Engineering  Research  Institute 
of  the  University  of  Michigan. 

A  native  of  Fitchburg,  Mass.,  he  was 
born  on  June  27, 1888.  He  studied  mechan- 
cal  engineering  at  WPI.  He  belonged  to  the 
V\asonic  bodies,  including  Scottish  Rite  and 
:he  Shrine.  The  assistant  treasurer  of  the 
first  Presbyterian  Church  of  Ann  Arbor,  he 
,/vas  also  a  former  president  of  the  Detroit 
Chapter  of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association.  He 
belonged  to  the  Engineering  Society  of 
Detroit. 


jiverett  Hutchins,  '15,  passed  away  in  the 
snollwood  Nursing  Home  in  Worcester  on 
ebruary  25,  1 979.  He  was  88  years  old. 

In  1 956  he  retired  from  the  New  England 
llectric  System,  where  he  had  been  em- 
ployed for  30  years.  During  his  career,  he 
iad  also  been  with  the  New  York,  New 
laven  and  Hartford  Railway  Co.,  Morgan 


Construction  Company,  Richard  French 
Iron  Works,  and  Eastern  Bridge  &  Structural 
Co. 

Mr.  Hutchins  was  born  on  Dec.  1 8, 1 890 
in  Worcester.  He  graduated  as  a  civil  en- 
gineer in  1 91 5.  He  belonged  to  the 
Worcester  Horticultural  Society. 

Payson  A.  Perrin,  '16,  of  Harvey,  Illinois 
passed  away  last  October. 

He  was  born  on  Feb.  20, 1 894  in  Boston, 
Mass.  He  graduated  as  a  civil  engineer  from 
WPI.  During  his  lifetime  he  was  associated 
with  the  U.S.C.&G.  Survey  for  five  years, 
and  served  in  France  with  the  U.S.  Army  in 
World  War  I.  He  was  also  employed  by  the 
Pennsylvania  Water  &  Power  Co. ;  the  State 
Highway  Department  in  Olympia, 
Washington;  and  the  U.S.  Engineer  Office 
in  Pittsburgh,  Pa.,  from  which  he  was 
retired. 

Howland  Buttler,  '18,  of  Chesterfield,  Mis- 
souri, a  retired  chemical  director  from  Dr. 
Pepper,  died  recently. 

After  graduating  as  a  chemist  from  WPI, 
he  joined  Mallinckrodt  Chemical  Works  as 
an  analytical  chemist.  Later,  he  worked  for 
the  University  of  Illinois,  St.  Louis  Coke  & 
Chemical,  Monsanto,  and  Anheuser- 
Busch,  Inc.  He  was  with  Dr.  Pepper  from 
1931  to  1960. 

Mr.  Buttler  belonged  to  the  American 
Chemical  Society  and  the  Society  for  Soft 
Drink  Technologists.  He  was  an  elder  of  the 
Highland  Park  Presbyterian  Church  in  Dal- 
las. He  was  born  on  October  26, 1 895  in 
Worcester. 

Guy  F.  Woodward,  '20,  former  superin- 
tendent of  distribution  at  Massachusetts 
Electric  Co.,  died  in  Worcester  on  May  4, 
1979  at  the  age  of  81. 

He  had  been  with  Massachusetts  Electric 
for  43  years  when  he  retired  in  1963.  He 
was  born  in  Clinton,  Mass.  on  April  2, 
1 898,  and  later  studied  at  WPI. 

Mr.  Woodward  served  as  president  of 
the  Tech  Old  Timers  in  1 966-67.  He  be- 
longed to  the  Transmission  and  Distribu- 
tion Committee  of  the  Electrical  Council  of 
New  England,  the  Appalachian  Mountain 
Club  (life  member),  the  Worcester  Me- 
chanics Association,  Worcester  Economic 
Club,  and  the  Exchange  Club.  He  was  a 
past  president  of  the  New  England  Society 
of  Underground  Engineers,  past  chairman 
of  the  Worcester  chapter  of  AIEE,  and  past 
president  of  the  Worcester  Tennis  Club. 

A  former  commissioner  of  the  Mohegan 
Council  of  Boy  Scouts,  he  was  one  of  the 
earliest  recipients  of  the  Silver  Beaver 
Award.  He  was  a  member  of  the  New 
England  Regional  Sea  Scout  committee, 
and  started  the  first  organized  Sea  Scout 
program  in  Worcester. 

He  was  a  50-year  member  of  the  Ma- 
sons, a  trustee  of  the  Worcester  Historical 
Museum,  and  a  member  of  the  Worcester 
Craft  Center,  where  since  1 964  he  had 
been  a  weekly  volunteer  assistant  to  the 
director. 


Dr.  Cyril  Israel,  '21,  a  physician  in  Woon- 
socket,  Rhode  Island,  for  42  years,  died  at 
his  home  on  April  5, 1 979.  He  was  79. 

A  native  of  Millville,  Mass.,  he  was  born 
on  Feb.  24,  1900.  In  1921  he  graduated  as 
a  chemist  from  WPI.  He  received  his  MD 
from  Boston  University  Medical  School  in 
1926.  He  practiced  medicine  in  Woon- 
socket  until  his  retirement  in  1969.  For  two 
years  he  served  as  president  of  the  medical 
staff  at  Woonsocket  Hospital  and  as  an 
associate  member  of  Fogarty  Memorial 
Hospital. 

Dr.  Israel  belonged  to  the  Woonsocket 
Medical  District  Society,  the  Rhode  Island 
Medical  Society,  the  Congregation  B'nai 
Israel,  B'nai  B'rith,  the  Rhode  Island  Jewish 
Home  for  the  Aged,  and  the  Masons,  of 
which  he  was  a  50-year  member. 

Percival  E.  Meyer,  '23,  of  Westfield,  Mas- 
sachusetts, a  retired  executive  vice  presi- 
dent of  Cortland  Grinding  Wheels  Corp., 
died  of  cancer  on  March  1 0,  1 979. 

He  was  born  in  Westfield  on  June  10, 
1 901 .  In  1 923  he  graduated  as  a  chemist. 
He  spent  a  year  with  the  Fiberloid  Corp., 
then  joined  Cortland,  where  he  was  em- 
ployed for  46  years.  He  retired  in  1 970  as 
executive  vice  president. 

A  member  of  the  Masons  and  ATO,  Mr. 
Meyer  also  belonged  to  the  Exchange 
Club,  the  Congregational  Church,  the 
Blandford  Country  Club,  and  Connecticut 
Valley  Shell  Club.  In  1 967  he  was  elected  to 
a  three-year  term  on  the  board  of  directors 
of  the  voluntary,  non-profit  Grinding 
Wheel  Institute,  an  association  of  manufac- 
turers of  grinding  wheels  and  other  bonded 
products,  organized  to  promote  the  best 
interests  of  users  of  the  products  and 
members  of  the  industry.  He  wasthe  father 
of  Richard  S.  Meyer,  '60. 

Gridley  Buddy,  '26,  of  Jacksonville,  Florida 
died  recently. 

He  graduated  as  a  chemist  from  WPI. 
From  1926  to  1941  he  worked  as  a  textile 
chemist.  From  1942  to  1948  he  was  with 
the  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture.  In 
1 952  he  received  his  MEd  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Florida.  For  a  number  of  years,  he 
was  a  teacher  at  Samuel  W.  Wolfson  Senior 
High  School  in  Jacksonville.  He  belonged  to 
ThetaChi. 

Donald  A.  Calder,  '26,  of  Wyckoff ,  New 
Jersey,  the  retired  president  of  C.  S.  Brainin 
Corp.,  died  on  April  25,  1979. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester  on  Nov.  28, 
1903.  After  receiving  his  BSEE  from  WPI, 
he  worked  forThos.  A.  Edison  Industries, 
Allied  Control  Co.,  Western  Electric,  and 
Engelhard  Industries.  Several  years  ago,  he 
retired  from  Brainin  Corp.  and  Stern  Metals 
Corp.  of  Mount  Vernon,  N.Y.  He  belonged 
to  SAE,  Skull,  and  AIEE. 


Summer  1979 /The  WPI  journal/ 47 


Fall  1979 


HBBIIifflMl 


Bm    WORCESTER 
Wm&W.  INSTITUTE 


id 


"       'j 


► 


Vol.  $,  no.  3 


UIPp 


o 


Fall  1979 


2         Revisiting  the  1970s  at  WPI 

A  look  at  the  busiest  decade  ever  for  WPI, 
by  Russell  Kay 

10         Previewing  the  1980s  at  WPI 

A  glimpse  at  plans  for  the  near  future,  as  the 
WPI  trustees  see  them. 

16  Alumni  Association 

People  on  the  move,  and  honors  for  the  Fund. 

17  What's  happening 

18  Homecoming  1979 

20  Who's  Who 

WPI's  public  man  in  public  relations 

22         UFO 

Experiences  of  a  WPI  alumnus  on  the  track 
of  . . .  what; 


30         Looking  through  a  borescope  at  Eugene 
Carignan 


39 


Completed  Careers 


Editor:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Alumni  Information  Editor:  Ruth  S.  Trask 

Design.  H.  Russell  Kay 

/  ypesetting:  County  Photo  Compositing, 
Inc.,  Jefferson,  Mass.,  and  Davis  Press,  Inc., 
Worcester,  Mass. 

Printing:  The  House  of  Offset,  Somerville, 
Mass. 


Address  all  correspondence  to  the  Editor, 
The  WPI  journal,  Worcester  Polytechnic  In- 
stitute, Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609. 
Telephone  (617)  753-1411. 

The  WPI  journal  (ISSN  0148-6128)  is 
published  for  the  WPI  Alumni  Association 
by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute.  Copy- 
right ®  1979  by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute. All  rights  reserved. 

The  WPI  journal  is  published  five  times  a 
year,  quarterly  plus  a  catalog  issue  (identi- 
fied as  no.  2)  in  September.  Second  class 
postage  paid  at  Worcester,  Massachusetts. 


WPI  ALUMNI  ASSOCIATION 

President:  John  H.  McCabe,  '68 

Senior  Vice  President:  Walter  B.  Dennen,  Jr., 
'51 

Vice  President:  Peter  H.  Horstmann,  '55 

Secretary-Treasurer:  Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President:  William  A.  Julian,  '49 

Executive  Committee  members-at-large:  Phi- 
lip B.  Ryan,  '65;  Donald  E.  Ross,  '54;  Anson 
C.  Fyler,  '45;  Harry  W  Tenney,  Ir.,  '56 

Faculty  representative:  Kenneth  E.  Scott,  '48 

Fund  Board:  G.  Albert  Anderson,  '51,  chair- 
man; Henry  Styskal,  Jr.,  '50,  vice  chairman; 
Richard  B.  Kennedy,  '65;  Gerald  Finkle,  '57; 
Philip  H.  Puddington,  '59;  Richard  A.  Davis, 
'53;  C.  John  Lindegren,  '39 


Fall  1979 /The  WPI  journal/  1 


by  Russell  Kay 
Research  by  Jean  Stilwell 


IT  IS  POPULAR  to  categorize  dec- 
ades of  social  history  with  catch 
phrases:  the  jazz  era  of  the  '20s;  the 
depression  '30s;  the  war-torn  '40s;  the 
complacent  '50s;  the  turbulent  '60s; 
the  self-aware  70s.  The  exact  term 
you  choose,  of  course,  depends  on 
what  aspect  of  the  times  particularly 
interested  or  affected  your  life. 

There  is  reasonably  general 
agreement  that  the  1970s  have  been 
peculiarly  a  time  of  turning  inward, 
of  examining  values  and  feelings.  The 
'60s  had  been  a  time  of  questioning, 
too,  a  time  of  social  upheaval,  but  the 
questions  were  directed  outward  — 
people  demanded  that  solutions  for 
problems  come  from  other  people  and 
institutions.  As  a  result,  a  lot  of  good 
things  happened,  or  at  least  were  ear- 
nestly set  into  motion:  some  mean- 
ingful civil  rights  action,  long- 
overdue  social  welfare  programs,  an 
infusion  of  spirit  and  money  into 
education,  a  space  program  that 
landed  men  on  the  moon.  But  this 
same  outer-directedness  also  resulted 
in  the  quagmire  of  the  Viet  Nam  War, 
in  an  economy  that  grew  ever  more 
out  of  control,  in  an  unwillingness  to 
face  the  consequences  of  industrial 
and  municipal  pollution,  and  a  grow- 
ing appetite  for  everything,  including 
energy  from  fossil  fuels. 

At  the  tail  end  of  the  1960s, 
however,  things  began  to  change.  Peo- 
ple started  to  look  for  answers  inside 
themselves.  All  sorts  of  "self-help" 
philosophies,  techniques,  systems, 
and  books  proliferated  in  this  new 
era,  and  the  signs  of  the  times  were 
varied  indeed: 


Revisiting  the  1970s  at  WPI 


►  Encounter  groups,  EST,  and  transcendental  meditation 

►  Dr.  Atkins'  diet  revolution,  macrobiotic  cookbooks,  and  Cuisinart  food  pro- 
cessors 

►  Watergate:  the  decline  and  fall  of  Richard  Nixon 

^People  magazine  (which  made  it  big)  and  New  Tunes  (which  had  more  heart, 
but  folded) 

►  OPEC,  gas-pump  lines,  wood  stoves,  and  diesel  cars 

►  Consciousness-raising,  assertiveness  training,  dressing  for  power,  and  looking 
out  for  number  1 

►  Digital  watches,  pocket  calculators,  and  video  games 

►  Bob  Dylan,  Dolly  Parton,  bye-bye  Beatles,  funk,  punk,  reggae,  and  disco 
►.S'fdr  Wars,  The  Godfather,  Roots,  The  Muppet  Show,  and  Crockett's  Victory 
Garden 

►  logging,  racquetball,  kung  fu,  and  the  NFL  on  Monday  nights 

►  Solid  as  gold  and  sound  as  a  dollar. 

►  The  once  lowly  tee-shirt  was  no  longer  underwear  but  a  vehicle  for  making 
personal  statements. 

►  We  almost  lost  Detroit  with  nuclear  reactor  problems,  but  instead  we  got 
Three  Mile  Island. 

►  Smokey  the  Bear  was  quietly  retired  and  Woodsy  Owl  installed  in  his  place 
(pollution  evidently  being  a  bigger  problem  than  forest  fires). 

►  The  Olympic  games  went  to  Munich  and  the  whole  world  lost. 

►  Walt  Disney  World  offered  us  an  ultimate  fantasy. 

►  Skylab  went  up  into  space,  then  fell  down  and  hit  Australia. 


DURING  THESE  YEARS  of  the 

last  decade,  it  has  not  only  been  indi- 
viduals who  have  looked  inward  for 
direction;  so  too  have  institutions, 
and  none  more  than  Worcester  Poly- 
technic Institute. 

The  groundwork  for  the  70s  be- 
gan with  the  faculty  planning  com- 
mittee which  wrote  the  Two  Towers 
report  that  led  to  the  creation  of  the 
new  curriculum  called  the  WPI  Plan. 
And  it  was  the  WPI  Plan  which  was 
the  touchstone  of  the  times  for 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute.  lust 
what  happened,  you  ask? 

►  Creating  the  design  for  a  new 
technological  education. 

►  Refining  the  details  of  the 
model,  then,  one  by  one,  bringing 
them  into  practice. 


►  Restructuring  and  redesigning 
every  single  undergraduate  course 
taught  at  WPI. 

►  Winning  both  acceptance  and 
renown,  on  campus  and  in  the  na- 
tional arenas  of  higher  education  and 
of  engineering,  and  getting  the  WPI 
Plan  accredited. 

►  Wrestling  with  the  enormous 
problems  that  yearly  threatened  to 
sink  the  whole  enterprise. 

►  Developing  workable  ways  of 
promoting  and  evaluating  student 
proiects. 

►  Defining  a  meaningful  humani- 
ties minor  required  of  all  students. 

►  Divining  a  new  way  of  getting 
students  to  relate  their  technical  ma- 
jors to  the  social  world. 


Fall  1979 /The  WPI  Journal/ 3 


THE  1970s  WERE  A  TIME  of  becoming,  of  growing.  In  virtually  every  area 
we  can  look  at,  the  figures  show  considerable  increase  since  1970. 


Students: 

In  1970  there  were  1,792  undergraduates,  in  a  total  student  body  of  2,363.  In 
1979  there  are  2,375  undergraduates  in  a  student  population  of  over  3,500.  In 
1970,  1,520  students  (including  41  women)  applied  for  admission,  and  541  en- 
rolled. In  1979,  2,009  students  made  application  (214  of  them  women),  for  an 
entering  class  of  658. 


Faculty: 

While  the  student  body  grew  by  48  percent  over  the  decade,  the  full-time  fac- 
ulty only  grew  from  158  to  180,  a  mere  14  percent,  although  the  number  of 
part-time,  adjunct,  and  affiliate  faculty  has  risen  from  1 7  to  80. 


Campus: 

The  campus  has  increased  slightly  in  size,  from  about  45  acres  in  1970  to  its 
present  56.  Most  of  this  growth  reflects  the  addition  of  Higgins  House,  plus 
the  Ellsworth  and  Fuller  residences  along  Institute  Road. 

In  1969,  the  campus  had  504  dormitory  beds;  in  1979  it  has  912.  (There 
are  about  as  many  fraternity  beds  now  as  there  were  then.)  Laboratory  space 
grew  somewhat  from  94,078  square  feet  to  98,749.  Classroom  space,  however, 
shrank  considerably,  from  62,735  to  48,927  square  feet,  reflecting  both  the 
change  in  emphasis  toward  project  work  (much  of  it  carried  out  off  campus) 
and  the  increased  use  of  alternate  instructional  tools,  such  as  videotape.  For 
these  reasons,  also,  conference  room  space  grew  from  3,475  to  9,340. 


Library: 

In  1969,  WPI's  Gordon  Library  had  fewer  than  61,000  volumes.  Now  it  has 
more  than  triple  that  number  and  is,  in  fact,  approaching  the  building's  design 
capacity  of  200,000  volumes.  And  that  doesn't  count  in  the  nearly  600,000 
technical  reports,  mostly  on  microfiche,  nor  the  30,000  audiovisual  items,  in- 
cluding audio  and  video  tapes  and  cassettes,  records,  and  films.  At  the  begin- 
ning of  the  decade,  WPI  had  no  real  archives;  now  there  is  a  significant  and 
growing  collection  of  items  that  reflect  WPI's  history  and  heritage,  plus  a  spe- 
cial librarian  to  manage  the  program. 


Departments: 

In  the  last  decade,  WPI  has  added  3  new  departments  —  Computer  Science, 
Life  Sciences,  and  Social  Science  and  Policy  Studies  —  and  new  graduate  degree 
programs  in  biomedical  engineering,  biomedical  science,  construction  project 
management,  fire  protection  engineering,  hydrodynamics  and  water  resources, 
management,  and  mathematics  for  secondary  school  teachers.  History  and  En- 
glish were  merged  into  a  single  department,  Humanities. 

Only  two  people  who  were  department  heads  in  1 969  still  hold  that  posi- 
tion --  Prof.  Donald  Zwiep  of  Mechanical  Engineering,  and  Prof.  Donald  John- 
son of  Humanities  (then,  History). 


4  /The  WPI  Journal  /Fall  1979 


*"'  *  -'"— ™  ■— — «— 


MMHWMHWM 


Continuing  Education: 

Enrollment  in  evening  graduate  school  programs  has  tripled  over  the  decade, 
from  less  than  200  to  some  6S0  this  year.  The  area  of  enormous  growth,  how 
ever,  has  been  in  short  (1-3  days)  courses  aimed  at  professional  development. 
Where  there  were  barely  more  than  100  people  registered  in  1975,  the  projec- 
tion for  the  current  school  year  is  over  2,000. 

In  a  related  area,  WPI's  five-year-old  co-op  program  has  grown  from  8  stu 
dents  to  over  50,  and  over  the  period  nearly  90  students  have  participated. 


Finances: 

In  1970,  WITs  budget  was  about  $9.7  million,  with  a  deficit  of  nearly  $400,000. 
That  has  grown  to  the  1979  budget  of  $21.3  million.  Over  the  entire  period, 
the  budget  has  been  balanced  with  an  aggregate  surplus  (retained  operational 
earnings)  of  $452,289. 

WPI's  endowment  has  grown  from  $24.6  to  $35.2  million,  due  in  part  to 
many  generous  gifts  and  bequests  from  trustees  and  others,  and  the  value  of 
the  physical  plant  has  increased  from  $18  to  $30.5  million. 


Student  Finances: 

The  cost  of  education  has  grown,  not  just  for  WPI  but  for  its  students  as  well. 
With  the  consumer  price  index  having  somewhat  more  than  doubled  over  the 
decade,  tuition  has  just  about  kept  pace,  rising  from  $2,100  to  $4,350.  Over  the 
same  period,  however,  financial  aid  to  students  has  nearly  quadrupled,  rising 
from  $767,000  in  1970  to  $2,823,904  last  year,  as  a  number  of  new  endowed 
scholarship  funds  have  been  added. 


Research: 

Research  sponsored  by  outside  organizations  has  grown  from  $1.76  million  in 
1971  to  over  $3  million. 


Alumni  Generosity: 

Giving  to  the  Annual  Alumni  Fund  has  increased  from  1970s  $134,000  to 
1 979's  record  level  of  $575,000.  During  the  past  six  years,  WPI  has  won  the 
prestigious  U.S.  Steel  award,  given  by  the  Council  for  Advancement  and  Sup- 
port of  Education,  no  less  than  three  times. 


Giving  to  WPI: 

Other  giving  to  WPI  has  been  impressively  large.  During  the  capital  fund  drive, 
The  WPI  Plan  to  Restore  the  Balance,  in  the  years  1972-1977,  WPI  exceeded  its 
$18.5  million  goal  by  over  $400,000.  The  generosity  and  leadership  provided  by 
WPI's  trustees  has  helped  the  college  keep  pace  with  the  times,  maintaining  an 
attractive  and  functional  physical  plant,  and  continually  improving  the  quality 
of  our  already  excellent  programs. 


Fall  1979 /The  WPI  journal/ 5 


Computers: 

In  1969,  WPI  acquired  its  second  computer,  an  RCA  Spectra  70/46,  which  gave 
the  campus  timesharing  capabilities  for  the  first  time.  This  created  such  a  de- 
mand, however,  that  in  1971  a  second  mainframe  computer,  a  DECTO,  was  in- 
stalled and  used  strictly  for  timesharing.  By  1976,  the  Spectra  was  simply  over- 
loaded with  administrative  computing,  and  was  replaced  with  a  larger  and  fas- 
ter Univac  90.  Now,  in  1979,  the  DEC- 10  is  being  run  near  capacity  and  is  be- 
ginning to  show  its  age  (discrete  transistors,  no  IC's). 

But  there  are  other  computers  around  too.  A  recent  computer  census  at 
WTI  shows  the  Electrical  Engineering  department  leading  the  list,  with  24  Di- 
gital Equipment  Corporation  LSI  microcomputers,  plus  PDF- 7,  PDP-8,  and 
PDP-1 1/10  minis,  and  a  Honeywell  6/43.  Computer  Science  comes  next,  with  a 
PDP-1 1/10,  two  Raytheon  RDS-500,  a  Rockwell  A1M-65,  and  a  number  of  other 
microcomputers,  plus  an  incredible  variety  of  terminals  and  other  associated 
devices.  Mechanical  Engineering  has  three  different  PDP-1  l's,  two  of  them  de- 
dicated to  special  purposes  in  the  nuclear  reactor  and  in  materials  engineering. 
Chemical  Engineering  has  two  minicomputers,  both  DEC,  and  the  Mathemati- 
cal Sciences  department  finishes  up  the  list  with  an  Apple  microcomputer. 


NUMBERS  ALONE,  HOWEVER,  cannot  tell  the  story  of  what  has  hap- 
pened at  WPI.  Far  too  many  students  have  walked  over  Earle  Bridge  during  that 
period.  Here's  a  quick  overview  of  some  of  the  events  that  have  made  WPI 
such  an  exciting  place  to  be  during  this  past  decade. 


1970 


The  Cambodian  invasion  and  nation-wide  student  demonstrations.  The  first 
faculty  constitution  adopted  at  WPI.  Computer  science  department  es- 
tablished. Stoddard  Residence  Center  opened.  Environmental  Systems  Study 
Program  funded  by  $200,000  from  the  Alfred  P.  Sloan  Foundation.  WPI  wins  na- 
tional 1st  place  in  Clean  Air  Car  Race.  Higgins  House  bequeathed  to  WPI. 


1971 


Faculty  donate  two  weeks  during  the  summer  for  planning  purposes  and  WPI 
Plan  implementation.  Carnegie  Corporation  grant  of  $188,000  received  to  aid 
summer  planning.  First  videotape  viewing  station  set  up  in  Gordon  Library;  tel- 
evision studio  opened  in  Higgins  Labs.  Charles  W  Moore  Co.  report  on  a  physi- 
cal plan  for  WPI's  future  presented  to  the  campus.  September  entering  class  is 
the  first  able  to  enroll  under  the  WPI  Plan.  Free  cross-registration  among 
Worcester  Consortium  colleges  initiated.  First  off-campus  project  center 
opened  at  U.S.  Army  Natick  Labs. 


6  /The  WPI  Journal  /Fall  1979 


1972 


Intercession  offered  for  the  first  time,  ISO  short  courses  in  three  weeks.  Ex- 
change program  begun  with  The  City  University  of  London.  Project  Center 
opened  at  St.  Vincent  Hospital.  $18.5  million  five-year  fund  drive  announced. 
National  Science  Foundation  (NSF)  awards  WPI  $733,400  --  largest  grant  ever 
under  its  College  Science  Improvement  Program.  Campus  Judicial  System 
adopted.  First  competency  examinations  given  under  the  Plan.  Three  students 
graduate  under  the  WPI  Plan,  and  Lesley  Small  hecomes  WPI's  first  woman 
graduate.  "Cookie"  Price,  dean  of  faculty,  has  heart  attack  and  is  forced  to  retire 
earlv.  In  the  fall,  14-week  semesters  are  abolished  and  replaced  with  7-week 
terms.  Life  Sciences  department  established.  First  blind  student  enters.  "Nego- 
tiated admissions"  policy  started.  Geetha  Bhatt  is  first  woman  to  receive  PhD. 
NSF  advisory  panel  visits  WPI  to  monitor  Plan  implementation. 


1973 


Student  mail  boxes  installed  in  renovated  1st  floor  of  Daniels  Hall.  Tech  News 
changes  its  name  to  WPI  Newspeak.  Fall  entering  class  is  the  first  to  be  en- 
tirely under  WPI  Plan.  Ellsworth  and  Fuller  residences  open  (funded  by  dona- 
tions of  the  Ellsworth  and  the  Fuller  foundations).  IQP  center  established  in 
Washburn.  Kresge  Foundation  grants  $150,000  for  renovation  of  foundry  into 
student  project  center.  First  women  students  in  ROTC.  3-2  programs  begun 
with  Holy  Cross,  Regis,  and  Elmira  Colleges. 


1974 

National  Endowment  for  the  Humanities  awards  $180,000  for  humanities  suf- 
ficiency implementation.  Exchange  program  begun  with  ETH  (federal  technical 
school  in  Zurich,  Switzerland).  Acting  on  a  WPI  Petition,  City  Council  closes 
West  Street  through  the  campus  on  a  trial  basis,  but  reopens  it  after  nine 
months.  Sloan  Foundation  gives  $350,000  for  implementation  of  Interactive 
Qualifying  Project.  Renovations  to  Morgan  Hall  begun.  NSF  gives  WPI  $48,000 
for  Plan  evaluation.  Alumni  Fund  wins  U.S.  Steel  award.  Goat's  Head  Pub  ex- 
panded by  students.  Ford  Foundation  gives  unrestricted  $180,000  Venture  Fund 
grant  to  WPI  to  be  used  innovatively 

East  campus  closed  to  car  traffic  and  parking;  the  "greening  of  the  campus" 
begun!  History  and  English  merged  into  Humanities  department.  Social  Sci- 
ence and  Policy  Studies  department  established.  Economics,  Government  and 
Business  merged  into  Management  department.  Washington  D.C.  Project  Cen- 
ter opened.  As  school  opens  in  the  fall,  Morgan  renovations  force  the  use  of 
Harrington  Auditorium  as  a  temporary  dining  hall.  Mellon  Foundation  grants 
$150,000  for  faculty  development  in  the  Humanities.  Salisbury  Laboratories 
closed  for  remodeling,  its  inhabitants  redistributed  throughout  the  campus. 


1975 


Venezuelan  students  arrive  at  WPI  under  special  program.  NSF  awards  WPI  an 
additional  $430,100.  The  graduating  class  is  50  percent  Plan,  50  percent  non- 
Plan.  3-2  programs  with  Anna  Maria  and  Assumption  colleges  announced.  Ma- 
jor grants  toward  Salisbury  renovation  received  from  the  Alden  Trust,  Dana 
Foundation,  and  the  Kresge  Foundation.  Freshman  Seminar  program  begins. 
Workshops  on  Teaching 

earning  begin.  Arm  and  hammer  weathervane  stolen  from  atop  Washburn 
Shops.  Society  of  Women  Engineers  chapter  receives  charter. 


1976 

Co-op  program  begun.  WPI  Plan  accredited  by  Engineers  Council  for  Profes- 
sional Development.  Lilly  Foundation  awards  $123,000  for  Humanities  and  So- 
cial Sciences.  Boynton  Hall  closed  for  renovation  as  Salisbury  reopens.  (Musi- 
cal offices.)  Rockefeller  Foundation  grants  WPI  $100,000  for  IQP  implementa- 
tion. Program  in  Urban  and  Environmental  Planning  begun.  Trustees  vote  to  al- 
low two  faculty  representatives  at  meetings. 


1977 

First  sorority,  Phi  Sigma  Sigma,  organized.  Sanford-Riley  Hall  remodeled. 
Freeman  Plaza  dedicated  by  Howard  Freeman.  Arm  and  hammer  replica  in- 
stalled on  Washburn  as  building  exterior  is  renovated.  President  Hazzard  an- 
nounces retirement  in  one  year.  Football  team  wins  only  one  game  —  trustees 
ponder  what  to  do  about  it. 


8    The  WPI  Journal  /Fall  1919 


it. 


■  uamsam 


1978 

Blizzard  of  78  closes  WPI  down  for  three  days.  Plan  to  Restore  the  Balance  an- 
nounces $18.9  million  raised.  Football  retained  as  varsity  sport.  Prof.  Jo  Ann 
Manfra  becomes  first  woman  to  win  tenure  at  WPI.  Exchange  programs  begun 
with  University  College,  London,  and  Trent  Polytechnic  Institute.  Edmund  T. 
Cranch  inaugurated  as  WPI's  12th  president.  Boynton  Hall  reopened.  Alumni 
Fund  wins  U.S.  Steel  honorable  mention.  Center  for  Firesafety  Studies  created. 
Selective  admissions  policy  readopted. 


1979 

First  U.S.  master's  program  in  fire  protection  engineering  announced.  Astro- 
nomical observatory  dome  erected  on  Goddard  Lab.  First  blind  student  gradu- 
ates. Alumni  Fund  meets  Dana  Foundation  challenge  grant  —  alumni  giving 
increased  45  percent  in  one  year,  to  $575,884. 


AS  THE  1970s  draw  to  a  close,  WPI 
can  look  back  on  these  years  as  a 
time  of  enormous  change,  of  defining 
and  reaching  toward  new  goals  and 
using  new  ways  to  attain  existing 
goals.  It  has  been  a  time  of  self-study, 
of  trying  to  find  out  what  WPI  is  and 
should  be  doing,  of  hard  work  by  fac- 
ulty and  administration.  The  WPI 
Plan  has  been  brought  from  concep- 
tion to  reality,  and  it  provides  a  new 
and  firm  base  for  WPI's  future. 

Approaching  the  '80s,  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute  is  in  the 
strongest  shape  it  has  ever  been  in. 
We  command  enthusiastic  support 
from  industry,  the  world  of  higher 
education,  and  alumni.  If  the  campus 
seems  quieter  than  it  was  a  few  years 
ago,  that's  because  we're  consolidat- 
ing the  gains  we  have  already  made. 
The  rough  outlines  of  our  enterprise, 
shaped  in  the  early  years  of  the 
1970s,  are  now  being  polished  to  a 
high  lustre  with  a  very  fine  grade  of 
administrative  and  educational  sand- 
paper. 


Fall  1979 /The  WPI  Journal    9 


ttHMBMIi 


arxnefimttumima 


Previewing  the  1980s 
atWPI 


THE  WHOLE  BUSINESS  of  education  is  predicated  on 
looking  to  the  future.  We  learn  from  the  past  so  that  we 
may  better  deal  with  the  social  and  intellectual  and  moral 
and  technological  situations  that  are  bound  to  arise  in 
times  to  come.  We  learn  in  order  to  grow,  and  that  too  im- 
plies a  future. 

Planning  for  the  future  is  vital  to  any  successful  or- 
ganization, but  especially  so  for  one  like  WPI,  concerned 
with  technology  now  changing  at  faster  and  faster  rates. 
Simply  maintaining  an  operation  like  Worcester  Polytech- 
nic Institute  is  an  enormously  costly  undertaking.  To  do 
so  without  concern  for  tomorrow  would  represent  a  waste 
of  time,  effort,  and  money.  Well  then,  what  should  be 
done? 

That,  in  essence,  was  the  charge  given  by  the  Board  of 
Trustees  to  its  Planning  and  Resources  Committee  a  year 
ago.  Co-chairmen  Arthur  E.  Smith,  '33,  and  Stanley  C. 
Olsen  were  asked  to  evaluate  the  needs  of  the  college  for 
the  near  future  and  identify  those  areas  where  additional 
capital  support  (read  that  money)  would  be  needed.  Their 
report,  presented  to  and  adopted  by  the  Board  last  June, 
shows  a  careful  balancing  of  alternatives  and  directions. 


UNDERLYING  ASSUMPTIONS 

Before  looking  at  the  physical  needs  of  the  college,  a  num- 
ber of  assumptions  about  the  future  had  to  be  made,  and 
some  choices  of  direction  indicated.  Among  these  were: 

^■High-school  graduates:  The  number  of  high-school  grad- 
uates will  begin  to  decline  during  the  first  few  years  of  the 
1980s,  and  the  rate  of  decline  will  increase  in  1981-82. 

^Applicant  pool:  The  demand  for  technical  and  scientific 
education  will  remain  strong,  but  it  is  not  certain  that  the 
percentage  of  qualified  students  will  rise.  Efforts  must  be 
made  to  increase  the  pool  of  applicants  to  WPI. 

^■Financial  aid:  It  is  apparent  there  will  be  increased  need 
for  student  financial  aid  at  both  undergraduate  and  gradu- 
ate levels.  High  priority  must  be  given  to  scholarship, 
loan,  and  work-study  programs.  Federal  programs  and  regu- 
lations will  plan  an  increasing  role  in  this  area. 

^■Educational  orientation  and  enrollment:  WPI  will  con- 
tinue to  emphasize  undergraduate  education  and  to  im- 
prove the  WPI  Plan.  Undergraduate  enrollment  will  be 
held  at  its  present  level  of  about  2,400,  or  possibly  de- 
creased to  around  2,200  if  that  proves  economically  feasi- 
ble. 

►  Graduate  and  continuing  education:  Opportunities  here 
at  the  master's  degree  level  will  expand.  WPI  should  align 
its  programs  to  take  advantage  of  these  opportunities, 
strengthening  its  offerings  in  appropriate  disciplines. 

^■Faculty  development:  The  extraordinary  demands  of  the 
WPI  Plan,  particularly  in  the  recent  years  of  transition  and 
implementation,  has  taken  a  toll  of  our  most  valuable  re- 
source, our  faculty.  Ways  must  be  found  to  help  renew 
and  reward  this  group. 

Fall  1979/  The  WPI  Journal/  1 1 


►  Academic  program  support:  Rapidly  changing  technol- 
ogy, coupled  with  the  hands-on  approach  to  equipment 
use  encouraged  at  WPI,  has  created  substantial  need  for 
new  laboratory  facilities  and  equipment  and  for  new 
teaching  tools. 

^■Student  support  services:  Because  of  the  nature  of  the 
WPI  curriculum,  with  its  strong  reliance  on  individual 
student  action  and  planning,  our  advising  and  counseling 
services  are  in  urgent  need  of  strengthening. 

^■Athletics:  WPI  will  continue  to  emphasize  lifetime 
sports  and  intramural  activities,  and  WPI  will  field  teams 
that  are  competitive  at  the  intercollegiate  level. 


As  the  committee  discussed  plans  and  options,  other  as- 
sumptions and  realizations  emerged.  It  became  abun- 
dantly clear,  while  looking  for  places  to  locate  additional 
athletic  fields,  that  the  college  is  land  poor.  Most  of  the 
land  on  the  main  campus  is  occupied  and  used  about  as 
heavily  as  anyone  would  want.  Salisbury  Park  to  the  north 
and  Bancroft  Hill  to  the  west  form  natural  (if  attractive) 
boundaries. 

As  with  Salisbury  and  Boynton,  efforts  will  be  aimed 
at  renovation  and  restoration  rather  than  razing  or  re- 
building. 


FACILITY  NEEDS 

Bricks  and  mortar  type  improvements  are  the  easiest  to 
think  about,  they  seem  emotionally  to  give  the  most  visi- 
ble return  for  the  money  . . .  and  they  cost  the  most.  But 
there  are  very  real  needs,  some  carried  over  as  unmet  ob- 
jective of  the  last  capital  fund  drive,  the  WPI  Plan  to  Re- 
store the  Balance. 

Central  Service  Facility:  Moving  the  Plant  Services 
operations  from  the  middle  of  the  campus,  in  their  current 
scattered  and  somewhat  makeshift  quarters,  to  a  home  of 
their  own  is  a  key  to  the  "greening  of  the  campus"  objec- 
tive which  is  central  to  WPI's  future  plans.  Estimated  cost: 
$750,000. 


used  to  house  the  departments  of  Management  and  Social 
Science  and  Policy  Studies.  Cost  for  remodeling:  $1. 12  mil- 
lion. Cost  for  reequipping:  $300,000. 

Atwater  Kent:  In  this  current  home  of  the  Electrical 
Engineering  department,  you  can  still  see  where  the  trol- 
ley cars  used  to  come  and  go.  Computer  Science  is  a  rela- 
tively young  department  which  has,  however,  very  close 
ties  to  EE.  Students  in  each  department  take  courses  and 
laboratories  in  the  other,  and  both  disciplines  require  ex- 
tensive computer  laboratories.  Together,  these  depart- 
ments account  for  35  percent  of  the  student  body.  It  is 
planned  to  move  Computer  Science  (which  has  had  at 
least  three  different  buildings  in  the  past  ten  years)  into  a 
new  and  permanent  home  in  Atwater  Kent.  Extensive  re- 
modeling will  be  necessary.  Cost  for  remodeling:  $1.62  mil- 
lion. Cost  for  reequipping:  $412,000. 

Kaven  Hall:  Civil  Engineering  laboratories  and  class- 
room facilities  in  Kaven  Hall  need  to  be  upgraded  and  mo- 
dernized. More  importantly,  however,  we  must  upgrade 
and  reequip  the  structural  and  geotechnical  laboratories. 
Cost  for  remodeling:  $  1 20,000.  Cost  for  reequipping: 
$155,000. 

Energy  Conservation  Program:  While  many  ag- 
gressive efforts  at  energy  conservation  have  been  made  in 
recent  years,  more  are  needed.  Called  for  now  are  capital 
expenditures  for  storm  windows  and  insulation  for  Salis- 
bury, Washburn,  Atwater  Kent,  Higgins  Lab,  Stratton, 
Olin,  Kaven,  and  Goddard.  Cost:  $75,000. 

Fraternities:  The  Trustee  Committee  felt  that  a 
method  should  be  found  by  which  WPI  can  assist  the  fra- 
ternities, which  have  provided  housing  for  WPI  students 
for  generations,  to  replace,  upgrade,  and  modernize  their 
buildings.  Most  fraternities  occupy  wooden  frame  build- 
ings which  were  not  designed  for  the  heavy  use  and  wear 
and  tear  that  they  are  currently  subjected  to.  However, 
the  Committee  deferred  any  firm  recommendation  for  ac- 
tion at  this  time. 

►Total  cost  for  facilities  improvements: 
$4.6  million. 


Performing  Arts:  Alden  Memorial  Auditorium:  Grow- 
ing interest  in  performance  has  resulted  in  virtually  con- 
stant use  of  Alden  for  lectures,  concerts,  rehearsals,  films, 
and  plays.  The  auditorium  has  a  number  of  acoustical 
problems,  and  the  stage  wiring  needs  replacement.  Cost: 
$55,000. 

Washburn  Shops:  Some  550  students  now  take  mate- 
rials processing  lab  courses  in  this  second-oldest  campus 
building.  Most  of  the  machinery  and  equipment  is  40  to 
50  years  old,  plagued  with  breakdowns  and  the  need  for 
constant  repairs.  Increased  use  has  accelerated  the  need  to 
update  and  reequip  the  laboratory.  Upper  floors  will  be 


ENDOWMENT  OBJECTIVES 

Scholarship  Funds:  More  than  65  percent  of  WPI's 
students  have  received  financial  aid  in  the  form  of  grants, 
loans,  or  through  work-study  arrangements.  WPI  wants  to 
add  $1  million  to  its  student  aid  funds. 

Professorial  Chairs:  Endowed  faculty  positons  are  vi- 
tal in  WPI's  efforts  to  attract  and  retain  outstanding  schol- 
ars in  many  fields  and  to  broaden  the  base  of  our  educa- 
tional offerings.  Two  new  endowed  chairs  are  planned.  To- 
tal cost:  $1.5  million. 


12  /The  WPI  Journal  /Fall  1979 


""■■■■■  ■■■■■  ■■■  ■•■•"- 


Building  Endowment:  The  building  endowment  fund 
has  been  established  to  ensure  that  seleeted  buildings  can 
be  maintained  at  an  optimum  level  while  at  the  same 
time  reducing  the  burden  on  the  annual  operating  budget. 
Cost:  $500,000. 

►  Total  endowment  objectives: 
$3  million. 


IMPROVING  THE  CAMPUS  ENVIRONMENT 

WPI  is  fortunate  to  have  Salisbury  Park,  owned  by  the  city 
of  Worcester,  as  an  attractive  green  belt  to  the  north.  Our 
playing  fields,  the  Higgins  House  grounds,  and  the  Baptist 
Church  provide  a  western  border  of  green  to  our  campus. 
Together,  these  two  areas  mark  a  natural  and  permanent 
boundary  to  the  campus. 

Toward  the  south,  WPI  has  crossed  Institute  Road 
with  the  addition  of  the  Ellsworth,  Fuller,  and  Stoddard 
dormitories.  While  the  college  owns  some  of  the  wood 
frame  buildings  in  the  neighborhood,  not  all  the  college- 
owned  property  borders  the  campus  proper.  To  the  east, 
Boynton  Street  has  been  for  many  years  a  natural  bound- 
ary, although  WPI  now  owns  70%  of  the  property  between 
Boynton  and  Dean  Streets.  On  all  other  sides,  the  campus 
is  surrounded  by  busy  traffic  arteries:  Institute  Road,  Salis- 
bury Street,  and  Park  Avenue. 

The  trustees  wish  WPI  to  acquire  buildings  and  land, 
in  predetermined  areas  of  interest,  whenever  they  come 
on  the  market.  These  properties  will  be  open  to  such  uses 
as  student  housing,  fraternity  sites,  parking,  playing  fields, 
academic  or  support  service  facilities,  and  green-belt 
zones.  As  each  property  is  acquired,  a  careful  evaluation  of 
buildings  should  be  made  to  determine  whether  to  retain 
or  raze  the  structures  (the  latter  to  eliminate  maintenance 
costs  and  problems).  $450,000  is  recommended  for  prop- 
erty acquisition. 

Playing  Fields:  Let's  assume  WPI  had  adequate  field 
space  in  1965.  The  student  body  then  numbered  1,247 
students.  Now  we  have  nearly  double  that  number  of  stu- 
dents, and  the  area  of  available  field  space  has  actually 
been  reduced. 

This  becomes  especially  critical  in  the  light  of  Title 
IX  and  WPI's  need  to  provide  athletic  fields  for  women's 
varsity  softball  and  field  hockey.  We  do  not  currently 
have  any  adequate  field  for  field  hockey. 

And  our  students  are  using  the  fields.  Last  spring,  the 
intramural  softball  program  involved  over  800  students  on 
53  separate  teams,  playing  more  than  300  games.  This  in- 
tensive and  unrelenting  use  of  the  playing  fields  is  simply 
wearing  them  out,  leaving  no  time  for  reseeding. 

It  is  proposed  that: 

►  The  existing  soccer  field  will  be  enlarged  and  im- 
proved to  meet  the  demands  imposed  by  this  sport. 


►  The  existing  track  must  be  replaced  with  one  that 
meets  intercollegiate  standards  and  has  improved  drain- 
age. An  artificial  surface  is  planned,  and  the  spurs  which 
currently  infringe  on  the  baseball  field  will  be  eliminated. 

►  The  baseball  diamond  will  be  relocated. 

►  A.  J.  Knight  Field  will  be  rebuilt  and  reconditioned 
for  use  by  field  hockey  and  lacrosse. 

►  Alumni  Field  will  get  a  new  artificial  surface  so  that 
it  will  be  available  for  multiple  uses,  and  lighting  will  be 
increased  to  extend  the  use  of  the  field  into  the  evening 
hours. 

►  Tennis  courts  on  Boynton  Street  will  be  resurfaced. 

►  Total  cost  for  playing  field  improve- 
ments: 

$1.04  million. 

West  Street:  Closing  West  Street  through  the  campus  is 
an  unfulfilled  dream.  Success  or  failure  will  be  determined 
by  political  action.  If  successful,  $65,000  is  planned  to  re- 
landscape  the  area. 


EQUIPMENT  AND  LIBRARY  NEEDS 

Equipment:  WPI  continues  to  provide  modern,  fully 
equipped  laboratories  for  the  use  and  instruction  of  our 
students  so  that  they  can  enter  their  professions  armed 
with  the  best  possible  training  and  experience.  The 
project-oriented  WPI  Plan  has  generated  a  concurrent  need 
to  upgrade  and  modernize  our  laboratories.  Cost  of  equip- 
ment purchases:  $762,000. 

Library:  WPI  has  maintained  a  fine  library  facility, 
which  also  benefits  from  the  Worcester  Area  Cooperating 
Libraries.  While  the  collection  is  generally  excellent,  there 
is  a  need  to  augment  our  holdings  in  life  sciences,  man- 
agement, and  engineering  and  science.  Cost:  $65,000. 

Computer:  WPI's  DECsystem-10,  acquired  in  1972,  is 
both  approaching  saturation  (being  in  use  90  percent  of 
the  24-hour  day)  and  showing  its  obsolescent  technology 
in  a  lack  of  repair  components.  The  growth  of  student  in- 
terest in  computer  science  and  the  benefits  available  in 
new  computer  technology  indicate  that  the  system  should 
be  upgraded.  Under  consideration  is  a  DECsystem-20. 
Cost:  $500,000. 

►  Total  equipment  and  library  needs: 
$1.3  million. 


Fall  1979 /The  WPI  Journal/  13 


ACADEMIC  PROGRAMS 


THREE  STAGES 


Faculty  Development  Awards:  The  prime  reason 
for  the  success  of  WPI  and  the  Plan  has  been  the  whole- 
hearted efforts  of  the  faculty.  To  sustain  and  further  im- 
prove our  programs  will  require  a  conscious  institutional 
effort  to  recognize  outstanding  service  to  WPI  and  to  pro- 
vide the  opportunity  for  renewal  and  strengthening  the 
faculty's  academic  competence. 

The  faculty  development  program  is  designed  to 
build  on  the  present  sabbatical  leave  program  (which  pro- 
vides half  salary),  and  will  reach  a  significant  number  of 
our  faculty  to  influence  WPI's  educational  environment. 
Trustee  Fellowships  will  provide  the  remaining  half  of  the 
sabbatic  year  salary  and  will  be  awarded  on  a  competitive 
basis,  three  awards  each  year  for  three  years.  Sabbatic  Sup- 
plements will  enhance  the  attractiveness  of  a  sabbatical 
leave  where  an  external  organization  provides  a  portion  of 
the  missing  half  salary.  Finally  Industrial  Awards  will  be 
used  to  encourage  industrial  contacts  which  may  lead  to 
sabbatical  opportunities.  Cost  of  the  program:  $200,000. 

Academic  Programs:  Special  funding  is  needed  to 
strengthen  various  academic  programs.  Computer  science 
needs  more  depth  and  breadth  in  its  faculty.  Management, 
which  is  actively  serving  industry  through  off -campus  and 
evening  programs,  should  be  further  improved.  The  Manu- 
facturing Engineering  program  needs  to  be  upgraded,  and 
we  face  stiff  competition  from  industry  for  faculty.  The 
newly  announced  Fire  Protection  Engineering  program  has 
been  well  received,  but  much  start-up  work  needs  to  be 
done.  The  Center  for  Educational  Research  and  Develop- 
ment needs  support  to  continue  its  evaluation  of  our  cur- 
riculum. Graduate  research  programs  in  Biomedical  Engi- 
neering will  eventually  be  self-sustaining,  but  they  must 
be  developed  to  that  point.  Total  cost:  $250,000  per  year 
for  three  years. 

►Total  cost  for  academic  programs: 
$950,000. 


OPERATIONAL  NEEDS 

Unrestricted  gifts  for  operational  purposes  have  provided 
significant  budget  support.  The  major  source  of  these 
funds  has  been  the  Annual  Alumni  Fund,  which  has  en- 
joyed phenomenal  growth  in  recent  years.  Anticipated  op- 
erational needs  are  $500,000  this  year,  $600,000  in  1980- 
81,  and  $700,000  in  1981-82. 

►Total  operational  needs:  $1.8  million. 


It  is  expected  that  these  plans  will  take  about  three  years 
to  bring  about,  with  a  total  goal  of  $13.2  million.  Three 
stages  of  proceeding  have  been  defined,  with  the  highest 
priority  going  to  faculty  development,  Atwater  Kent, 
Kaven,  the  soccer  field,  and  tennis  courts.  The  second 
stage  includes  Washburn  and  Alden  Memorial.  The  third 
stage  covers  the  central  service  facility  Alumni  Field,  the 
new  track,  and  the  baseball  field.  Divided  equally  among 
all  three  phases  are  energy  conservation,  endowment,  and 
equipment  and  library  needs.  Divided  equally  among 
stages  two  and  three  are  land  acquisition  and  academic 
programs. 


THE  STRATEGY  FOR  MEETING  OUR  NEEDS 

When  the  Plan  to  Restore  the  Balance  was  announced  in 
1972,  it  was  clearly  a  general  appeal  aimed  at  corpora- 
tions, foundations,  alumni,  parents,  and  any  other  poten- 
tial donors.  The  money  needed  for  the  facilities  and  pro- 
grams outlined  in  this  article,  however,  will  be  raised  dif- 
ferently Basically,  for  each  area  a  number  of  target  donors 
or  organizations  have  been  identified,  and  proposals  will 
be  made  on  an  individual  basis.  There  will  be  no  general 
solicitation  of  alumni  for  these  needs,  although  the  An- 
nual Alumni  Fund  will  continue  its  normal  operation. 


CONCLUSION 

In  the  cover  letter  which  accompanied  the  report,  Messrs. 
Smith  and  Olsen  noted  that  "we  started  out  deliberations 
after  the  successful  conclusion  of  our  $18.5  million  capi- 
tal campaign.  As  in  all  long-term  efforts  of  this  nature, 
there  are  unmet  needs  and  others  that  have  been  accelera- 
ted during  the  campaign  period.  We  discovered  what  we 
had  suspected  —  our  plant  is  well  maintained  and  effec- 
tively used.  However,  new  technologies  and  shifting  stu- 
dent majors  have  created  new  needs  and  pressures." 


14 /The  WPI  journal  /Fall  1979 


Meet  the  President 

The  newly  elected  president  of  the 
WPI  Alumni  Association  is  John  H. 
McCabe,  '68.  He  is  currently  vice 
president,  finance,  at  Carl  Gordon  In- 
dustries, and  he  will  become  execu- 
tive vice  president  there  on  Decem- 
ber 1. 

In  past  years,  McCabe  has  been 
president  of  the  Worcester  County 
Alumni  Club,  member-at-large  of  the 
Executive  Committee,  chairman  of 
the  Student  Alumni  Services  and 
Group  Travel  committees,  and  vice 
president  of  the  Association.  In  addi- 
tion, he  has  been  president  of  the 
Poly  Club  and  was  a  member  of  the 
Inauguration  Committee  for  Presi- 
dent Cranch. 

Jack  lives  with  his  wife  Leslie 
and  three  children  in  Worcester. 


Alumni  Fund  wins  another 
major  award  —  again! 

It  was  announced  this  summer  that 
the  1977-78  Alumni  Fund  was  the  re- 
cipient of  the  coveted  U.S.  Steel 
Alumni  Giving  Incentive  Award.  The 
award  itself  consists  of  $5,000,  a  cer- 
tificate, and  a  moebius  strip  sculpted 
from  stainless  steel. 

This  marks  the  third  U.S.  Steel 
award  for  the  WPI  alumni  Fund  in  six 
years,  the  last  one  (an  honorable  men- 
tion) being  just  last  year.  Because  of 
this,  WPI's  award  was  given  in  a 


Four  alumni  elected, 
reelected  to  WPI  Board 

Two  alumni  were  newly  elected  to 
the  WPI  Board  of  Trustees  this  sum- 
mer, while  two  others  were  reelected 
to  their  seats  as  alumni  trustees. 

Joining  the  Board  as  an  alumni 
trustee  is  Joseph  Glasser,  '35,  a  man- 
agement consultant  and  retired  vice 
president  of  Raytheon,  who  lives  in 
Andover,  Massachusetts.  The  other 
new  Board  member  is  Robert  C.  Stem- 
pel,  '55,  vice  president  and  general 
manager  of  General  Motors'  Pontiac 
Division.  Mr.  Stempel  resides  in 
Bloomfield  Hills,  Michigan. 

Reelected  to  second  terms  on  the 
Board  was  C.  Marshall  Dann,  '35,  for- 
mer U.S.  Commissioner  of  Patents 
and  currently  a  partner  in  the  Phila- 
delphia firm  of  Dann,  Dorfman,  Her- 
rell  and  Skillman.  Mr.  Dann  lives  in 
Wilmington,  Delaware.  Also 
reelected  to  his  second  term  is  Hil- 
liard  W  Paige,  '41,  director  of  Interna- 
tional Energy  Associates  Limited,  of 
Washington,  D.C. 


newly  created  category,  called  Sus- 
tained Excellence,  which  includes 
Dartmouth  College,  California  Insti- 
tute of  Technology,  Phillips  Exeter 
Academy,  and  the  University  of 
Michigan. 

In  the  photo  above,  Stephen  J. 
Hebert,  '66,  secretary-treasurer  of  the 
Association,  is  shown  receiving  the 
award  certificate  from  James  T  Ho- 
sey,  vice  president  and  executive 
director  of  the  United  States  Steel 
Foundation. 


New  program  for  class  secre- 
taries begins 

Don't  be  too  surprised  if  you  sud- 
denly hear  from  the  secretary  of  your 
class  asking  for  news  and  informa- 
tion. It's  all  part  of  a  new  program  de- 
signed to  improve  the  quality  of  the 
class  notes  in  the  Journal  with  the 
help  of  class  secretaries. 

Announced  at  the  Alumni  Lead- 
ership Workshops  held  during  Home- 
coming Weekend,  the  program  will 
see  periodic  mailings  from  each  class 
secretary  to  a  portion  of  his  or  her 
class.  We  hope  that  this  new  "per- 
sonal touch"  will  open  up  channels  of 
information  that  we  haven't  been 
privy  to  in  the  past,  and  that  we  will 
be  able  to  print  more  and  more  inter- 
esting news  about  your  WPI  classma- 
tes and  other  alumni.  We've  had  an 
enthusiastic  reception  from  the  class 
secretaries,  so  now  it's  up  to  you  to 
do  your  part. 


16 /The  WI'I  Journal/ Fall  1919 


What's  happening? 


BASKETBALL 

*  December  1 

Nichols 

*  December  S 

Norwich 

*  December  8 

Bowdoin 

December  10 

Springfield 

December  13 

Vtesleyan 

"January  12 

Amherst 

January  IS 

Middlebury 

January  19 

Union 

January  23 

Babson 

"January  25 

Drew 

"January  26 

Bates 

"January  31 

Brandeis 

*  February  2 

Suffolk 

Febaiary  5 

Trinity 

"Febaiary  8 

Coast  Guard 

"Febaiary  13 

Williams 

"Febaiary  16 

Lowell  (ALUMNI  NIGHT!) 

Febaiary  2 1 

MIT 

Febaiary  23 

Clark 

Febaiary  27 

Tufts 

WRESTLING 

SWIMMING 

"November  29 

Boston  College 

November  28 

Babson 

December  5 

Trinity 

"November  30 

Holy  Cross 

"Decembers 

Bowdoin 

"December  6 

Boston  College 

December  13 

Brown 

December  12 

Clark 

December  IS 

Harvaal-UNH-Mass  Maritime 

January  22 

Southeastern  Mass 

"January  IS 

Coast  Guard 

January  26 

Lowell 

January  19 

Williams,  RPI 

February  2 

Coast  Guard 

January  24 

Amherst 

"Febaiary  7 

Trinity 

January  26 

R1C,  Univ.  of  Maine 

"Febaiary  9 

Keene  State 

*  Febaiary  2 

Inwell 

Febaiary  14 

Brandeis 

Febaiary  S 

MIT 

"Febaiary  16 

Tufts 

Febaiary  9 

Hartford,  Vtesleyan 

March  6-8 

New  Englands 

Febaiary  13 

Western  New  England 

Febaiary  17 

New  England  JV  Tournament 

"Febaiary  21-23 

NEW  ENGLAND  INTERCOLLEGIATE 
\ARSITY  CHAMPIONSHIP  AT  WPI! 

Febaiary  28 

NCAA  Div.  in  Championship 

FILMS  ON  CAMPUS 


WOMEN'S  BASKETBALL 


December  6 

Western  New  England 

"Decembers 

Emmanuel 

December  10 

Merrimack 

"December  12 

Bryant 

January  24 

Gordon 

"January  26 

MIT 

"January  30 

Anna  Maria 

February  1 

AIC 

"Febaiary  4 

Suffolk 

"Febaiary  S 

Wheaton 

Febaiary  7 

Assumption 

February  11 

R1C 

Febaiary  13 

Brandeis 

"Febaiary  IS 

Colby 

"Febaiary  IS 

Clark 

*Febaiarv20 

Amherst 

Febaiary  21-23 

MAIAW  Suite  Tournament 

"Febaiary  26 

Babson 

INDOOR  TRACK 


December  1 
December  8 
December  12 
Febaiary  13 
February  16 
Febaiary  23-24 


MIT,  Brandeis 

Bendey 

Tufts 

Holy  Cross,  Worcester  State 

Easterns 

New  Englands 


(*  =  admission 
"November  25 

"December  2 

"December  9 

"December  16 

January  IS 

January  17 

January  22 

January  24 

"January  28 

"Febaiary  3 

February  S 

"Febaiary  10 

Febaiary  12 


"Febaiary  17 
"Febaiary  19 
"Febaiary  23 

"Febaiary  24 
February  26 
March  4 


charge) 

Dr.  Strangebve 

Dark  Star 

Up  in  Smoke 

Close  Encounters  of  the  Third  Kind 

The  Boys  from  Brazil 

College  The  Anal  Wire 

The  Son  of  the  Sheik  His  Royal  Slyness 

Dr.JekyUG  Mr.  Hyde  The  Champion 

The  Iron  Mask 

Superman 

The  Greatful  Dead  Movie 

Emperor  Jones 

An  I  nmamed  Woman 

Black  History:  Lost  Stolen  or  Strayed 

This  is  the  Home  of  Mrs.  levant  Graham 

Paul  Laurence  Dunbar,  America's  First  Black  Poet 

It  Came  from  Outer  Space 

Fantastic  Animation  Festival 

The  Pink  Panther 

The  Pink  Panther  Strikes  Again 

The  Return  of  the  Pink  Panther 

Malcolm  X 

A  Hero  Ain 7  Nothin '  hut  a  Sandwich 


CONCERTS 

December  3 
December  10 
January  21 
February  4 

February  IS 


Ron  Hudson,  Guatemalan  guitarist 

Beacon  Brass  Quintet 

Richard  Henzel:  "Mark  Twain  in  Person" 

Donald  Bogul:  "Toms,  Coons,  Mulattoes,  Mammies. 

and  Bucks 

kr.\e\  Pjanfl  Trici 


Alden,  7:00 
Alden,  9:15 
Alden,  7:00 
Alden,  7:00 
Alden,  7:00 
Kinnicutt,  7:30 
Kinnicutt,  7:30 
Kinnicutt,  7:30 
Kinnicutt,  7:30 
Alden,  7:00 
Alden,  7:00 
Kinnicutt,  7:30 
Alden,  7:00 


Kinnicutt,  7:30 
Alden,  7:00 
Alden,  7.00 
Alden,  7:00 
Alden,  9:15 
Alden,  7:00 
Kinnicutt,  7:30 
Kinnicutt,  7:30 


Alden,  8:00 
Alden,  8:00 
Alden,  8:00 

Alden,  8:00 
Alden  son 


HOMECOMING  1979 


Another  gathering  was  held,  this  for 
members  of  WPI's  undefeated  1954 
football  team.  Although  they  later 
had  to  watch  WPl  lose  the 
afternoon's  game  to  Bowdoin  College, 
they  can  now  take  heart  at  the  team's 
finishing  out  the  1979  season  with 
three  wins,  one  better  than  last  year 
(which  was  Coach  Bob  Weiss's  first 
season  with  the  Engineers),  and  three 
times  as  many  as  the  disastrous  sea- 
son of  1977.  Now,  for  next  year  .... 


hf   mI 

ml 

! 

■ 

^            ] 

Wlfh  the  win/ier  of  the  alumni  road 
race.  Bob  Ferrari,  74  (left),  and  runner- 
up  BUI  Light,  71  (right),  is  Patty  Ma- 

guire,  WPI's  new  assistant  alumni 
director. 


I'he  WPl  journal /Fall  1979 


No,  it's  not  an  invasion  of  the  balloon 
people,  but  a  bloody  mary  party 
thrown  for  Alumni  Fund  volunteers 
at  Homecoming,  besides  the  morning 
wake-up  drinks,  the  happy-face  bal- 
loons, buttons  proclaiming  "WP1, 
We're  on  Top,"  and  engineer's  caps 
were  given  to  the  many  people  who 
worked  and  helped  out  in  setting  the 
record-breaking,  challenge-meeting 
1978-79  Fund. 

At  the  finish  of  the  alumni  4-nulc 
road  race,  coming  in  somewhere  in 
the  middle  of  the  pack  is  Super- 
Runner  no.  25,  Jack  McCabe,  presi- 
dent of  the  Alumni  Association. 


Fall  1979 /The  WPI  Journal/  19 


WPl's  Public  Man 
in  Public  Relations 


by  Ruth  S.  Trask 

HERE'S  A  QUESTION  for  you: 

What  does  the  term  public  relations  mean? 

Did  you  think  of  stirring  up  publicity,  or  spokesmen  who  is- 
sue statements  in  other  people's  names?  Well,  there's  a  whole  lot 
more  to  public  relations  than  that,  according  to  Roger  N.  Perry, 
Jr.,  '45,  WPI's  PR  director:  "It's  a  profession  that  many  people  just 
don't  understand."  As  if  to  back  up  his  point,  Roger  keeps  a  small 
sign  near  his  desk  that  reads: 

Public  relations  is  the  management  function  which  evaluates 
public  attitudes,  identifies  the  policies  and  procedures  of  an  indi- 
vidual or  organization  with  the  public  interest,  and  plans  and  ex- 
ecutes a  program  of  action  to  earn  public  understanding  and  ac- 
ceptance. 


of  information  for  the  U.S.  Army,  and  he  thoroughly  appreciated 
the  public  relations  role  in  the  organizational  staicture,"  adds 
Roger. 

"1964  was  an  especially  interesting  year  on  campus,"  he  re- 
calls. "It  was  the  year  before  the  WPI  Centennial  celebration,  and 
there  was  an  incredible  amount  of  activity.  I  was  already  on  the 
Alumni  Centennial  Committee  before  I  took  up  my  WPI  posi- 
tion. I  nominated  Mildred  M.  Tymeson  to  write  WPI's  centennial 
history,  Two  Towers,  and  helped  plan  the  photo  layouts  for  the 
book  as  a  part  of  my  PR  duties.  That  centennial  year  in  1965 
was  a  major  challenge,  not  only  for  me,  but  for  everyone  con- 
nected with  the  celebration."  For  its  centennial  year  activities, 
WPI  won  an  award  of  exceptional  achievement  from  the  Ameri- 
can College  Public  Relations  Association. 

That  was  only  the  first  of  many  professional  honors,  tangi- 
ble proof  that  others  have  )udged  him  more  than  just  good  at 
what  he  does.  Roger's  program  of  support  and  publicity  for  WPI's 
five  entries  in  the  1970  Clean  Air  Car  Race  earned  the  coveted 
Silver  Anvil  Award  of  the  Public  Relations  Society  of  America 
(PRSA).  "I  particularly  enjoyed  providing  PR  support  for  this 
event,"  Roger  remembers.  "There  was  such  a  wonderful  spirit  of 
unity.  Preparing  for  that  race  was  a  major  undertaking,  which  the 
students  carried  off  magnificently.  That  was  just  at  the  time  the 
WPI  Plan  was  taking  final  shape  in  faculty  committees.  Many 
alumni  were  concerned  about  the  changes  planned  for  the  cur- 
riculum. The  race  proved  that  WPI  students,  with  faculty  sup- 
port, could  really  handle  the  kind  of  projects  that  were  being  in- 
corporated into  the  Plan.  Also,  the  race  generated  a  great  deal  of 
alumni  support  and  enthusiasm  at  a  very  critical  time." 


THESE  WORDS  have  been  the  cornerstone  on  which  he  has 
built,  over  thirty  years,  what  is  probably  the  longest-running  and 
most  respected  public  relations  career  in  Worcester  County.  One 
of  the  interesting  things  about  this  is  that  he  started  out  as  an 
engineer. 

"I  didn't  start  out  in  public  relations,"  Roger  recalls,  "but  as  a 
WPI  undergraduate  I  had  served  as  managing  editor  of  the  Tech 
News,  a  coeditor  of  The  Peddler,  and  was  a  founder  of  the  WPI 
chapter  of  Pi  Delta  Epsilon,  the  honorary  journalism  fraternity.  I 
was  also  a  student  correspondent  for  the  Worcester  Telegram.  Af- 
ter graduating  with  a  BS  in  mechanical  engineering,  I  joined  Nor- 
ton Company  as  a  plant  layout  engineer.  In  1949  the  company 
set  up  a  Public  Relations  Department,  and  I  joined  it.  I  was  really 
fortunate  in  learning  the  profession  under  one  of  the  finest  peo- 
ple m  our  business,  Elliott  "Buz"  Knowlton,  whom  I  later  suc- 
ceeded as  public  relations  manager." 

In  1964  Roger  was  tapped  by  WPI  President  Harry  Storke  to 
be  director  of  public  relations  at  his  Alma  Mater,  and  Roger  has 
held  the  position  ever  since.  "General  Storke  had  once  been  chief 


ROGER  PERRY  has  been  active  in  promoting  his  views 
about  his  profession  and  in  introducing  others  to  it,  and  he  has 
built  up  an  impressive  record  of  professional  and  community 
goodwill.  In  1974  he  passed  the  tough  accreditation  examina- 
tions of  PRSA.  Accreditation  is  the  highest  recognition  of  profes- 
sional competence  bestowed  upon  members  of  the  Society.  He  is 
at  present  a  regional  director  of  PRSA. 

He  has  played  an  active  role  in  the  Council  for  the  Ad- 
vancement and  Support  of  Education  (CASE).  Following  the 
merger  of  the  American  College  Public  Relations  Association 
and  the  American  Alumni  Council  into  one  organization,  CASE, 
Roger  stepped  in  to  help  smooth  the  transition  and  served  as 
general  chairman  of  the  1976  district  conference.  He  is  a  founder 
and  past  president  of  both  the  Worcester  County  Public  Rela- 
tions Association  and  the  Worcester  County  Editors'  Council. 
Roger  is  an  alumnus  advisor  to  WPI's  chapter  of  Theta  Chi,  a  for- 
mer director  of  the  Better  Business  Bureau  of  Central  New  Eng- 
land, and  a  former  director  of  the  Girl  Scout  Council. 

In  September,  Roger  was  elected  president  of  the  John  Wood- 
man Higgins  Armory  Museum  following  the  defeat  of  a  contro- 
versial proposal  to  merge  the  Armory  into  the  Worcester  Art 
Museum.  A  corporator  (since  1976)  and  later  trustee  of  the  Ar- 
mory, Roger  was  a  staunch  supporter  of  independence  for  the 
world-famous  museum  of  armor.  In  the  reorganization  of  the 
board  of  trustees,  several  new  members  were  brought  in  to  re- 
place resigned  trustee  supporters  of  the  merger.  Roger  Perry  is 
the  first  president  in  the  Armory's  50-year  history  who  is  not  a 
member  of  the  Higgins  family. 

A  quiet  man,  Roger  accomplishes  more  than  many  people 
realize.  As  a  part  of  his  public  relations  activities  at  WPI,  partic- 
ularly in  the  years  under  President  Storke,  he  does  occasional 
speech-writing.  The  one  he  remembers  most  vividly,  however, 
dates  all  the  way  back  to  1965.  President  Storke  had  been  invited 
to  be  principal  speaker  at  a  Chamber  of  Commerce  Education 
Night  program.  Storke  wanted  to  use  the  opportunity  to  propose 


20 /The  WPI  journal    Fall  1919 


. 


that  area  colleges  share  the  cost  of  establishing  a  computer  cen- 
ter, a  facility  too  expensive  for  WTI  alone  at  that  time  but  one 
which,  Storke  was  sure,  would  soon  be  badly  needed.  He  asked 
Roger  for  some  help. 

"Whv  not  give  them  a  ten-point  plan?'  suggested  Roger. 
"There  must  be  at  least  ten  different  areas  in  which  local  col- 
leges could  benefit  by  working  together.  Then,  if  we  don't  get 
their  support  on  the  computer  center,  we  ought  to  be  able  to 
make  some  progress  on  the  other  points." 

Storke's  "ten-point"  speech  hit  a  responsive  chord  in  the 
community,  and  the  results  were  gratifying  indeed.  He  got  his 
computer  center,  and  he  also  got  the  cooperative  program  now 
called  the  Worcester  Consortium  for  Higher  Education,  which 
became  a  reality  in  1967  as  a  result  of  his  efforts. 

PUBLICIZING  WPI  is  an  ongoing  part  of  Roger's  job,  the  part 
which  most  people  think  of  as  public  relations.  Roger  works 
with  newspaper  editors  and  writers  in  Worcester  and  Boston,  and 
makes  trips  to  New  York  and  Washington  to  try  to  generate 
more  national  publicity  for  the  college  in  newspapers  and  maga- 
zines. Two  years  ago,  Roger  brought  in  a  consulting  firm  of  me 
dia  representatives,  Gehrung  Associates,  which  augments  his  ef- 
forts in  developing  national  stories.  This  arrangement  has 
proved  fruitful,  with  recent  articles  in  Business  Week,  the  New 
York  Times,  Change  magazine,  the  inflight  magazines  of  United 
Airlines  and  Air  New  England,  and  a  nationwide  Associated 
Press  Sunday  feature  story  on  Audrey  Muggleton-Harns's  clon- 
ing research.  Professor  Harris  was  also  featured  on  "Evening  Mag- 
azine," a  nightly  television  magazine  show  produced  by  Channel 
4,  Boston. 

Throughout  the  year,  he  and  Stephen  D.  Donahue,  '29,  news 
bureau  manager  since  1938,  research,  write,  and  distribute  ovei 
250  news  releases  a  year,  ranging  from  major  WPI  news  stories 
for  national  distribution  to  hometown  stories  on  new  fraternity 
pledges.  "My  main  job  is  to  make  WPI  more  widely  known,  and 
to  let  people  know  what  otir  students  and  staff  are  accomplish 
ing,"  notes  Roger.  "I  also  try  to  foster  a  friendly  climate  among 
WPI  and  other  local  colleges,  and  between  WPI  and  the  citizens 
of  Worcester.  We  want  people,  including  our  immediate  neigh- 
bors, to  recognize  WPI  as  the  real  asset  to  the  community  that  it 
is." 

THE  DAY  IS  rarely  dull  for  Roger  Perry.  His  duties  are  many 
and  varied.  Much  of  his  time  is  spent  on  the  telephone,  and,  at 
times,  one  wonders  if  the  receiver  hasn't  taken  root  in  his  ear. 
Roger  smiles  at  the  thought.  "I  do  get  a  lot  of  calls,"  he  ad- 
mits, "some  from  writers  and  editors,  or  perhaps  from  a  professor 
requesting  photographs  to  go  with  a  paper  he's  about  to  publish." 
The  grin  on  his  face  becomes  broader.  "I  also  seem  to  be  fust  in 
line  on  campus  to  receive  complaint  letters  and  crank  calls.  If 


students  play  their  stereos  too  loud  at  night,  I'm  the  one  the 
neighbors  ring  up  first  thing  in  the  morning 

When  he's  not  on  the  phone,  you  might  see  him  discussing 
story  possibilities  with  the  lournal  editor,  editing  Monday 
Memo  [a  weekly  internal  newsletter),  writing  or  laying  out  the 
next  issue  oiNewsbriefs,  putting  together  an  exhibit  or  booth 
that  will  help  tell  the  WTI  story  at  a  tan  or  in  a  display  window, 
showing  a  writer  or  reporter  around  the  campus,  or  taking  pic- 
tures. Indeed,  many  parents  and  alumni  might  best  recognize  Ro- 
ger by  the  Nikon  around  his  neck,  standing  on  the  sidelines  at 
such  events  as  homecoming,  reunion,  graduation,  parents  *,\j\. 
and  special  events,  like  the  recent  Energy  Expo,  cosponsored 
with  New  England  Electric,  which  brought  over  13,000  people  to 
campus  in  one  day.  He's  there,  helping  make  sure  that  things  run 
smoothly  for  campus  guests  and  visitors,  and  assisting  members 
of  the  press. 

As  a  part  of  efforts  to  publicize  the  college  and  the  commu- 
nity, Roger  is  often  asked  to  suggest  people  for  awards,  and  he- 
was  especially  pleased  to  have  nominated  Dean  William  R.  Gro- 
gan,  '46,  who  subsequently  received  the  1979  Worcester  Engi- 
neering Societv's  Scientific  Achievement  Award. 


ROGER  PERRY  saw  active  duty  on  the  destroyer  USS  Furse 
in  1951-53  during  the  Korean  Conflict.  During  World  War  II  he 
had  been  an  engineer  in  the  U.S.  Merchant  Marine.  He  served  in 
the  U.S.  Naval  Reserve  from  1949  to  1976,  when  he  retired  as  a 
commander.  Roger  played  an  important  part  when  his  unit,  a 
public  affairs  company  based  in  Boston,  won  a  Silver  Anvil 
Award  in  1972  for  a  program  which  brought  young  people  from 
across  the  country  to  participate  in  the  annual  "turnaround" 
cruise  of  the  USS  Constitution.  That  same  program  won  the  Bos- 
ton Publicity  Club's  first  Super  Bell  Ringer  Award  and  the  Free- 
doms Foundation  Award. 

At  his  home  in  Holden,  Roger  has  been  busy  for  several 
years  restoring  a  Model  A  Ford,  "the  same  model  I  had  as  a  stu- 
dent at  WPI."  His  wife,  Pauline,  teaches  biology  at  Wachusett  Re- 
gional High  School.  They  enjoy  outdoor  life  and  spend  vacations 
traveling  with  their  truck  camper. 

"When  the  children  were  younger,  they  used  to  join  us,"  says 
Roger,  "but  now  they're  grown  up  and  on  their  own."  Son  Dick 
graduated  in  [une  from  WPI  and  is  an  industrial  engineer  at  the 
Torrington  Company  in  Connecticut.  Tina,  77,  is  with  the  engi- 
neering department  of  the  Town  of  Holden.  fanet  teaches  physi 
cal  education  in  the  Northboro-Southboro  schools.  A  year  ami  a 
half  ago  their  oldest  daughter,  Claudia,  presented  Roger  and 
Pauline  with  their  first  grandchild,  Benjamin. 


AS  HE  LOOKS  BACK  over  his  30-year  public  relations  career 
in  Worcester,  he  comments  on  the  many  changes  over  the  years. 
"Back  in  1949,  when  we  started  the  department  at  Norton,  there 
were  only  about  five  public  relations  people  in  all  of  Worcester 
County  Today  there  are  over  100,"  Roger  notes.  "And  when  I  be 
came  director  of  public  relations  at  WPI  in  1964,  the  college  was 
so  small  that  I  also  served  as  executive  secretary  of  the  WPI  So- 
ciety of  Families,  wrote  a  periodic  newsletter  for  parents,  pro- 
duced the  college's  publications,  and  coordinated  all  special 
events.  These  last  two  posts  are  each  a  full-time  position  for 
someone  else  now.  The  college  has  grown  considerably  in  15 
years." 

WPI  has  certainly  stretched  its  wings  since  1964.  The  Con- 
sortium. The  WPI  Plan.  Increased  enrollment.  Two  new  presi 
dents.  As  public  relations  director,  Roger  Perry  has  helped  publi- 
cize every  aspect  of  campus  change.  Subtlelv,  hut  effectively,  be 
has  contributed  to  the  coming  of  age  of  WPI. 


Fall  1979    The  WP 


UFO 


FLYING  SAUCERS.  UFOs.  Mysterious  lights  in  the 
sky.  Over  the  years  they've  been  the  butt  of  more  bad 
jokes  than  almost  anything  except  Jewish  mothers.  Then, 
two  years  ago,  the  movie  "Close  Encounters  of  the  Third 
Kind"  made  them  almost  respectable. 

And  now  Dr.  Bruce  S.  Maccabee,  '64,  a  civilian  physi- 
cist specializing  in  optics  at  the  U.S.  Naval  Surface 
Weapons  Center,  is  one  of  the  central  figures  in  the  inter- 
pretation of  a  remarkable  series  of  UFO  sightings  last  De- 
cember in  New  Zealand.  These  sightings,  described  below, 
are  the  first  extended  UFO  observation  simultaneously  by 
reliable  eyewitnesses,  photography,  and  both  ground-  and 
aircraft -based  radar. 

Maccabee  recently  appeared  on  ABC's  "Good  Morning 
America"  show  with  Dr.  J.  Allan  Hynek,  former  astronomi- 
cal consultant  to  the  Air  Force's  Project  Blue  Book  and 
founder  of  the  Center  for  UFO  Studies.  The  two,  together 
with  Australian  reporter  Quentin  Fogarty,  an  eyewitness, 
described  the  New  Zealand  events  and  discussed  the  find- 
ings of  their  personal  investigations. 


THINGS  BEGAN  at  3:28  in  the  morning  of  December 
21, 1978,  when  Argosy  captain  Vern  Powell,  on  a  routine 
flight,  encountered  a  UFO  while  climbing  out  of  Blenheim 
Airport  at  the  top  of  New  Zealand's  South  Island.  He  had 
been  directed  there  by  air  traffic  controllers  at  Wellington 
Airport,  located  just  across  Cook's  Strait  on  North  Island. 
Radar  men  at  Wellington  had  picked  up  several  UFO  tar- 
gets on  their  screens,  including  one  particular  object  —  es- 
timated to  be  as  large  as  a  commercial  airliner  —  they 
tracked  for  60  miles.  After  this,  the  object  remained  sta- 
tionary until  Powell  arrived  on  the  scene.  Then,  to 
everyone's  amazement,  the  UFO  began  tracking  Powell's 
aircraft  down  the  coast  for  12  miles. 

When  the  news  of  the  sighting  reached  Melbourne, 
television  reporter  Quentin  Fogarty,  then  on  holiday  in 
New  Zealand,  was  asked  to  cover  the  story.  Fogarty  ar- 
ranged for  a  camera  crew  and  a  recreation  of  Powell's  ear- 
lier flight.  With  a  different  crew  than  the  earlier  flight,  Fo- 
garty and  crew  left  Blenheim  on  December  30  for  Wel- 
lington, then  for  Christchurch.  Just  after  midnight,  they 
noticed  a  number  of  bright  lights  in  the  direction  of  the 
township  of  Kaikoura,  located  on  the  northeast  coast  of 
South  Island.  They  immediately  contacted  Wellington  ra- 
dar, which  confirmed  unidentified  targets  in  that  direc- 
tion. 


The  encounter  had  begun. 


22  /The  WPI  Journal  /Fall  1979 


OVER  THE  NEXT  SO  minutes  or  so,  until  the  aircraft 

landed  at  Christehureh,  those  on  board  were  treated  to  a 
spectacular  and  at  times  frightening  UFO  display.  Some  of 
the  activity  was  filmed,  but  because  of  the  objects'  appar- 
ent ability  to  appear  and  disappear  at  will,  filming  was 
quite  difficult. 

At  times,  Wellington  radar  confirmed  several  UK)s 
behind  the  Argosy  plane,  and  at  one  time  a  UFO  target 
was  so  close  to  the  Argosy  that  Wellington  could  not  dis- 
tinguish between  the  plane  and  the  UFO.  The  passengers 
saw  a  flashing  light.  Reporter  Fogarty,  who  taped  a  com- 
mentary throughout  the  flight,  summed  up  the  feelings  of 
those  on  board  when  he  said,  "Let's  hope  they're  friendly!" 

lust  before  they  landed,  Captain  Bill  Startup  invited 
the  group  back  on  the  return  trip.  All  accepted  but  one 
member  of  the  camera  crew  who  didn't  want  to  fly  back 
through  the  area  of  the  sightings.  A  substitute  was 
quickly  found,  and  the  return  trip  commenced  at  2:16  a.m. 
About  three  minutes  after  takeoff,  the  plane  broke 
through  clouds  and  saw  a  very  bright  light  ahead  and  to 
the  right.  Captain  Startup,  who  compared  it  with  a  feature- 
less full  moon,  turned  on  the  airplane's  radar  in  the  map- 
ping mode.  Several  minutes  later,  when  the  plane  was 
about  1 5  nautical  miles  out  of  Christehureh,  its  radar  de- 
tected a  strong  target  some  20  miles  away,  in  the  direction 
of  the  bright  light.  When  the  plane  came  to  within  about 
10  miles  of  the  object,  at  an  altitude  of  13,000  feet,  the  pi- 
lot turned  toward  the  object.  But  after  a  90  degree  turn, 
the  object  was  still  at  the  plane's  side,  apparently  having 
moved  as  the  plane  turned. 

The  UFO  kept  its  relative  distance  from  the  plane  un- 
til Startup  decided  he  had  better  get  back  on  course.  As  he 
turned,  the  UFO  moved  to  the  front  of  the  craft,  to  the 
left,  and  then  sped  away  beneath  the  right-hand  side  and 
disappeared.  From  this  point  until  landing  at  Blenheim, 
the  people  on  board  continued  to  see  bright,  pulsating 
lights,  whose  presence  was  also  confirmed  later  by  ground 
radar.  One  brightly  flashing  light  was  filmed;  it  showed  a 
light  oscillating  rapidly  from  bright  white  or  yellow-white 
to  dim  red  and  orange.  The  images  caught  by  the  camera 
show  a  shape  that  changes  from  nearly  round,  to  sort  of 
triangular,  to  bell-shaped,  this  latter  having  a  bright  bot- 
tom and  a  dimmer  top.  The  plane  landed  at  3:15  a.m. 


THE  MELBOURNE  television  station,  Channel  O, 
asked  the  National  Investigations  Committee  on  Aerial 
Phenomena  (N1CAP)  to  investigate.  Bruce  Maccabee  was 
chosen  to  go  to  New  Zealand  and  Australia,  where  he 
spent  three  weeks  interviewing  witnesses  and  analyzing 
the  film.  "It  didn't  take  long  for  me  to  realize  that  this 
sighting  was  something  unusual,"  Maccabee  says.  He  esti- 
mates that  the  brightness  of  the  light  was  perhaps  several 
hundred  thousand  candlepower.  Assuming  a  distance  of 
10  miles,  the  object  shown  on  the  film  would  be  about  40 
feet  wide.  Maccabee  also  consulted  with  a  number  of 
other  scientists. 


lack  Acuff,  president  of  NICAP,  said  his  organization 
has  never  previously  endorsed  a  UFO  film  as  being  genu- 
ine, but  he  says  that  the  evidence  in  this  case  points  to 
some  new  phenomenon  that  is  probably  related  to  other 
UFO  reports.  Dr.  Hynek  stated  his  opinion  that  the  New 
Zealand  evidence  clearly  suggests  some  phenomenon  that 
cannot  be  explained  in  ordinary  terms.  He  criticized  those 
in  responsible  scientific  positions  who  had  publicly  stated 
that  the  New  Zealand  film  showed  Venus,  Jupiter,  me- 
teors, etc.,  without  even  bothering  to  talk  to  the  wit- 
nesses, or  to  find  out  at  what  times  and  in  which  direc- 
tions the  various  portions  of  the  film  were  shot. 

Maccabee,  who  has  been  a  member  of  NICAP  for 
twelve  years,  agrees  with  Hynek  on  one  sure  thing:  they 
knew  most  of  the  things  that  the  object  could  not  be. 
They  were  able  to  rule  out  planets,  stars,  balloons,  me- 
teors, other  aircraft,  secret  military  maneuvers,  radar 
"angels,"  and  even  the  possibility  of  a  hoax,  and  produced 
scientific  evidence  for  these  conclusions. 

"All  we  know,"  Maccabee  says,  "is  what  it  was  not,  but 
we  are  convinced  that  it's  something  real."  He  noted  that 
UFO  sightings  of  this  type  have  been  occurring  since 
around  1947,  "but  we  have  had  our  heads  in  the  sand  - 
the  ostrich  effect."  He  believes  that  more  should  be  done 
to  investigate  such  phenomena  and  to  keep  the  public  in- 
formed. 


Fall  1979 /The  WPl  journal/ 23 


1935 


1916 

Secretary. 

C.  Leroy  Storms 

135  West  6th  Ave 

Roselle,  NJ 

07203 

Wellen  Colburn  writes:  "At  84  I  still  seem 
to  be  well  and  able  bodied."  His  wife  is  not 
as  healthy,  "but  we  do  fairly  well." 


1928 


Secretaries. 

GiffordT  Cook 

Rt  3  Box  294  Keyes  Perry  Acres 

Harpers  Ferry,  WV 

25425 

Theodore  J  Englund 

70  Eastwood  Rd. 

Shrewsbury,  MA 

01545 


Cordon  Rice  spends  May  to  November  in 
Ithaca,  N.Y.,  and  November  to  May  in  St. 
Petersburg,  Florida. 


1932 


Emanuel  Athanas  spent  August  at  his  na- 
tive Island  of  Rhodes  in  the  Aegean,  where 
he  gathered  material  for  a  book  on  the 
Colossus  of  Rhodes.  Before  retirement,  he 
was  "Voice  of  America's"  radio  program 
director.  Later,  he  became  the  Washington 
correspondent  of  the  Athens  News  Agency 
and  of  the  New  York  National  Herald. 


1934 

Secretary: 
Dwight  J  Dwinell 
Box  265 

Brownington,  VT 
05860 

Eugene  Shumski,  now  retired,  is  doing 
consulting  work  for  his  former  employer, 
Milton  Bradley  Co. 


Secretary: 

Raymond  F  Starrett 

Continental  Country  Club 

Box  104 

Wildwood,  FL 

32785 

Sam  Ehrlich,  who  has  a  second  career  with 
his  son,  Richard,  reports  "progress  with  a 
new  (second)  plant  in  Austin,  Texas  and 
two  retail  furniture  stores  in  Houston." 
According  to  Ehrlich,  new  designs  in  solid 
oak  are  selling  well.  The  direction  of  their 
expansion  is  toward  "knock-down"  (K-D) 
furniture  of  top  quality.  They  may  have 
achieved  a  breakthrough  with  their 
knock-down  designs.  Sam  says,  "Still  have 
plenty  of  time  for  golf." 

Joseph  Glasser,  corporate  vice  president 
and  manufacturing  manager  of  Raytheon 
Company's  Missile  Systems  Division  and 
manager  of  the  company's  Andover- 
Lowell  Manufacturing  Operation,  was 
honored  at  a  retirement  party  in  May  mark- 
ing his  34  years  with  Raytheon.  Over  700 
friends  and  colleagues  attended  the  tes- 
timonial which  was  held  in  Andover,  Mass. 
At  the  party  he  was  toasted  as  "A  real 
professional.  A  man  who  gets  things  done. 
A  real  people  guy.  A  dynamic  leader." 
During  the  evening  he  was  presented  with 
the  Outstanding  Civilian  Service  Medal 
from  the  Department  of  the  Army,  and  a 
membership  in  the  Haverhill  Country  Club 
from  a  Raytheon  executive.  Glasser  was 
named  a  vice  president  of  the  company  in 
1 971 .  He  had  also  served  as  manager  of  the 
Waltham  manufacturing  facility.  A 
graduate  of  the  Raytheon  Advanced  Man- 
agement Program,  he  also  has  received  an 
honorary  doctor  of  science  degree  from 
Lowell  University,  and  the  Coddard  Award 
from  WPI.  He  is  a  WPI  trustee,  a  trustee  of 
Bon  Secours  Hospital  and  Lawrence  Sav- 
ings Bank,  as  well  as  a  director  of  the  Boys 
Club  of  Greater  Lawrence. 


1936 

Secretary: 

Harold  F  Hennckson 
1406  Fox  Hill  Dr 
Sun  City  Center.  FL 
33570 

After  38  years  with  The  Foxboro  Company, 
Herbert  Neuman  has  retired  and  is  living  on 
Cape  Cod.  He  writes,  "H.  Foster  McRell,  Jr. 

is  a  fellow  resident  of  Harwich." 


1938 

Secretary 
Emory  K  Rogers 
141  Lanyon  Dr 
Cheshire,  CT 
06410 

Dr.  Gilbert  Ashwell  was  recently  elected  to 
the  National  Academy  of  Sciences.  He 
holds  the  post  of  chief  of  the  biochemistry 
laboratory  at  the  National  Institute  of  Ar- 
thritis in  Bethesda,  Maryland.  .  .  .  Richard 
Cloues  continues  on  assignment  in  the 
Middle  East  as  a  resident  engineer  for 
Overseas  Bechtel,  Inc.  He  says,  "We  are 
consultants  and  construction  managers  for 
the  Dubai  International  Airport  expansion 
program  on  behalf  of  the  government  of 
Dubai,  UAE.  In  January  he  attained  life 

membership  in  the  ASCE Allen  Gridley, 

Jr.,  former  director  of  communications  at 
Revere  Copper  &  Brass,  Rome,  N.Y.,  retired 
early  due  to  poor  eyesight,  moved  to  Texas 
last  year,  then  back  to  New  York.  He 
declares,  "Life  is  interesting." 


1939 

Secretary. 

Charles  H  Amidon,  Jr 

636  Salisbury  St 

Holden,  MA 

01520 

Walter  Abel,  who  received  WPI 's  Robert  H. 
Goddard  Award  in  1970,  reports  that  his 
most  recent  activity  has  been  teaching 
junior  high  students  what  business  is  all 
about  under  "Project  Business."  Following 
graduation  he  joined  the  Research  Division 
of  USM  Corp.  During  World  War  II,  he 
managed  a  project  concerned  with  the  first 
rocket-propelled  aerial  torpedoes.  In  1969 
he  was  named  vice  president  for  research 
and  development.  He  attended  the  Pro- 
gram for  Senior  Executives  at  MIT  and  later 
became  a  member  of  the  Visiting  Commit- 
tee for  Mechanical  Engineering  and  a 
member  of  the  Industrial  Advisory  Com- 
mittee for  the  Polymer  Processing  Program 
and  the  Manufacturing  and  Productivity 
Department  at  MIT.  The  University  of 
Hartford  has  tapped  him  for  its  Industrial 
Advisory  Committee.  He  has  been  chair- 
man of  the  Boston  Research  Directors  Club, 
a  member  of  Industrial  Research  Club  of 
New  York  City,  and  USM's  representative 
to  the  Industrial  Research  Institute,  of 
which  he  became  president  in  1972.  He  has 
served  as  chairman  of  the  Finance  &  Advi- 
sory Committee  in  Wenham,  Mass. 

"Charlie"  Amidon  writes  that  he's 
"spending  the  waning  years  in  plant  layout 
and  renovation  with  occasional  lapses  into 
girl  watching."  In  World  War  II  he  reveals 
that  he  developed  draftsman's  elbow  over 
clocks,  railroad  cars,  and  machine  tools, 
then  "elbowed"  into  textile  machinery. 
Business  took  him  below  the  Mason-Dixon 


24 /The  WPI  Journal /  Full  1979 


Line,  then  to  Japan  and  Europe.  His  wife 
Eva  has  been  a  teacher  and  author.  Two 
sons  and  a  daughter  started  out  in  teaching 
and  Bill  is  in  Turkey  and  Doug  is  a  wood 
carver.  The  Amidons  have  several  grand- 
children. Charlie  is  a  student  of  the  Ameri- 
can circus  and  likes  to  rediscover  its  early 
history  and  equipment. 

Roland  Anderson  is  working  on  part  II  of 
The  Kings  Spawn,  a  history  of  his  father's 
family  written  by  his  mother  in  Sweden. 
During  his  career,  he  has  been  with  the 
U.S.A.F.,  Counter  Intelligence,  Westing- 
house,  GE,  Chrysler,  and  AMF  on  Titan  I 
ICBM  launchers.  After  service  at  NASA,  he 
spent  12  years  as  a  manager  in  the  Ad- 
vanced Systems  Lab.  atTARADCOM.  He 
holds  a  patent  on  a  "surface  effect  vehicle" 
and  has  others  pending,  including  one  on 
the  inertial  battery  (IB)  —  "Over  five  times 
better  than  a  chemical  battery."  He  has  set 
up  the  Magnatrans  Corp.  to  handle  possi- 
ble federal  fundingforthe  IB  development. 
His  brother,  Lennart,  '46  has  filed  for  a 
patent  on  an  RF  pulsed  DC  propulsion 
system  which  the  IB  power  pack  will  make 
practical.  Some  years  ago  Roland  Anderson 
hosted  the  "Best  of  the  Best"  at  the  Scarab 
Club  on  the  "Bud  Lanker  (TV)  Show." 
Hobbies  include  photography,  reading, 
model-making,  dancing,  and  Packards.  He 
has  five  children. 

James  Bartlett,  Jr.  is  president  and  owner 
of  Hydranautics,  a  California  company  spe- 
cializing in  heavy-load  moving  machinery 
and  reverse-osmosis  water-desalting  sys- 
tems. The  firm  has  100  employees  and 
offices  in  Houston,  London,  Singapore,  and 
Alkhobar.  The  Bartletts'  oldest,  Jim,  3rd, 
graduated  from  Berkeley  and  is  publisher  of 
three  magazines,  including  Politics  Today, 
and  is  president  of  the  International  Volley 
Ball  League.  Judy,  who  has  a  BS  in  nursing 
from  the  University  of  Hawaii,  is  now 
"learning  the  economics  of  California 
ranching."  The  youngest,  Stephen, 
graduated  from  Northrup  Institute  and  is 
manager  of  field  service  for  Hydranautics 
Water  Systems.  Bartlett,  who  earlier  in  his 
career  was  with  B.F.  Sturtevant,  The  Trane 
Co.,  The  Garrett  Corp,  and  his  own  Cos- 
modyne  Corporation,  enjoys  flying  (be- 
came a  pilot  at  47),  carpentry  and  water 
sports.  He  and  Shirley  are  active  elders  in 
the  Presbyterian  Church  and  participate  in 
Santa  Barbara  politics. 

Growing  myrtle,  English  ivy  and 
pachysandra  around  his  home  in  Cleveland 
Heights,  Ohio  is  R.  V.  Bergstrom's  "Main 
outdoor  activity."  He  also  belongs  to  the 
YMCA,  where  he  swims  a  half  a  mile  a  day 
to  keep  fit.  By  the  mid- 1 980's,  after  retire- 
ment, he  plans  to  become  a  beachcomber 
at  Vineyard  Haven,  Mass.,  where  the  fam- 
ily has  a  summer  home.  A  graduate  of 
Harvard  Business  School,  he  has  been  with 
Norton  Co  over35  years  in  grinding  wheel 
sales  and  supervision,  mostly  in  the  Cleve- 
land area  During  the  war  years,  he  was  at 
the  U.S.  Naval  Gun  Factory  and  was  an 
instructor  in  ordnance  at  the  Naval 


Ordnance  School,  Navy  Yard,  DC.  He  and 
Roberta  have  four  grown  children,  two  of 
whom  are  married.  Bergstrom  is  into  the 
local  "goings-on"  in  Cleveland  Heights, 
and  his  family  belongs  to  the  Unitarian- 
Universalist  Church  of  Shaker  Heights. 

After  working  briefly  for  Penn  Water  and 
Power  Co.,  Henry  Blauvelt  joined  Public 
Service  Electric  and  Gas  Co.  in  1940  and  is 
presently  manager  of  operations.  For  25 
years  he  lived  in  North  Plainfield,  where  he 
was  president  of  Rotary,  a  member  of  the 
Board  of  Education  and  of  the  YMCA 
board,  and  belonged  to  the  Carrier  Clinic 
Long  Range  Planning  Committee.  The 
Blauvelts  have  three  children  and  five 
grandchildren.  Tennis  and  swimming  are 
favorite  pastimes. 

Current  activities  of  Jack  Boyd  include 
land  and  building  management  of  his 
properties,  sailing,  mountain  climbing,  ski- 
ing, traveling,  scuba  diving,  and  guns.  He  is 
a  32nd  degree  Mason,  a  member  of  the 
Appalachian  Mountain  Club,  and  an  officer 
in  the  National  Ski  Patrol.  He  has  served  in 
Hollis  (N.H.)  town  affairs  as  a  member  of 
the  budget  committee,  planning  board, 
school  board,  school  study  committee,  and 
as  deputy  fire  chief,  police  commissioner, 
and  owners'  representative  on  the  con- 
struction of  three  Hollis  schools.  A  state 
representative  for  four  years,  he  was  also 
on  Gov.  Peterson's  task  force,  governor's 
crime  commission,  and  the  executive  board 
of  the  New  Hampshire  Council  of  Boy 
Scouts.  In  1971 ,  he  sold  Nashua  Brass  and 
retired.  Earlier  he  had  been  with  Saco- 
Lowell  Shops  and  Colt  Firearms.  The  Boyds 
have  two  sons,  two  daughters,  and  three 
grandchildren. 

Donald  Burness  has  been  employed  by 
Eastman  Kodak  for  his  entire  career,  except 
when  he  was  earning  his  PhD  from  the 
University  of  Illinois.  Since  1971  he  has 
been  senior  research  associate  at  Kodak  in 
Rochester,  NY  He  has  been  involved  in 
research  related  to  photographic  products 
(58  U.S.  patents),  laboratory  planning,  and 
safety.  Burness  hikes  in  the  Rockies  and 
likes  kayaking.  He  plays  tennis  and  is  inter- 
ested in  carpentry,  cabinetry,  photography 
and  gardening.  He  plans  to  retire  soon  to 
"spend  full  time  taking  care  of  problems 
with  our  recalcitrant  Volkswagen  Rabbit." 
He  belongs  to  the  Adirondack  Mt.  Club, 
Appalachian  Mt.  Club,  Green  Mt.  Club, 
Sierra  Club,  ACS,  and  Sigma  Xi.  Helen  and 
he  have  two  sons  and  three  grandchildren. 

For  a  number  of  years,  Harrison  Brown 
was  involved  with  the  Skylab  program 
("Don't  blame  me  because  itfell!  I  tried  my 
darndest  to  convince  NASA  to  install  a 
reentry  system")  While  at  the  Marshall 
Space  Flight  Center  in  Huntsville,  Ala.,  he 
became  the  sytems  engineering  manager 
for  the  medium  powered  flights  of  Ranger, 
Mariner,  Voyager,  and  Echo  At  the  Army 
Missile  Command  he  worked  on  the  Talos 
and  Mauler  missile  systems.  He  was  with 
the  Bureau  of  Ships  in  Washington,  with 
the  Navy  at  Mare  Island,  Calif.,  and  New 


England  Power,  Providence.  The  Browns, 
who  have  a  son  (doctor)  and  daughter 
(math,  teacher),  and  two  grandsons  re- 
cently returned  from  a  trip  to  Spain,  Por- 
tugal, and  Tunisia.  They  are  ardent  square 
dancers  and  participate  in  retirement  pro- 
grams. Brown  serves  on  the  local  Mental 
Health  board  and  is  chairman  of  the  church 
board  of  trustees. 

A  former  local  WPI  Alumni  Chapter  pres- 
ident, John  Busada,  has  also  served  as 
president  of  the  Flushing  Lions  Club  and 
the  Chamber  of  Commerce,  chairman  of 
the  YMCA  board,  and  trustee  of  Flushing 
Hospital.  He  was  a  vestryman,  headed  a 
local  Red  Cross  drive,  the  annual  YMCA 
Fund  Drive,  and  was  master  of  Damascus 
(Masonic)  Lodge.  Associated  for  many 
years  with  his  own  firm,  Busada  Mfg. 
Corp.,  which  specializes  in  transparent  rigid 
plastic  tubing,  he  was  formerly  with  Omni 
Products,  Northern  Industrial  Chemical 
Co.,  the  U.S.  Navy,  and  GE.  He  has  a 
daughter  in  the  theater  and  a  son  doing 
graduate  work  in  horticulture. 

Since  his  retirement  in  1973,  Wilder 
Carson  and  his  wife  Ruth  have  spent  much 
of  the  time  traveling  with  their  Airstream 
trailer  to  Prince  Edward  Island,  Canada,  in 
the  summers  and  to  Florida  or  the  South- 
west, winters.  They  have  crisscrossed  the 
U.S.,  Canada,  and  Mexico.  From  1958  until 
his  retirement,  Carson  served  at  the  Army's 
Munitions  Command  in  Dover,  N.J.,  and 
received  his  second  Meritorious  Civilian 
Service  Award.  Previously,  he  was  at 
Picatinny  Arsenal  in  Dover,  where  he  was 
employed  for  33  years  as  a  civilian  engineer 
and  manager,  design  and  project  engineer, 
and  laboratory  chief  in  ammunition  R&D. 
For  a  short  time  before  going  to  Dover,  he 
was  with  GE  The  Carsons  have  a  daughter 
and  two  grandchildren.  Hobbies  include 
invertebrate  fossil  collecting,  fishing,  and 
reading.  Carson  is  past  president  of  the 
Morris  County  Engineers  Club  and  an  ac- 
tive participant  for  1 5  years  in  the  local 
Great  Books  discussion  group. 

Allan  Chase  spent  about  36  years  with 
Procter  &  Gamble,  retiring  in  1975  as  plant 
chemical  engineer  in  the  food  products 
plant  in  Cincinnati.  He  now  lives  in 
Chatham,  Mass.  The  Chases  have  two 
daughters  and  a  son,  and  try  to  get  in  one 
major  trip  a  year.  .  .  .  Arthur  Cooley  retired 
as  a  senior  engineer  with  Socony  Vacuum 
Oil  Co.,  East  Providence,  R.I  in  1975,  when 
the  asphalt  plant  closed.  Earlier  he  worked 
for  Anderson  Engineering,  Cambridge,  and 
Lovejoy  Tool  Co.,  Springfield,  Vt.  In  World 
War  II  he  was  with  the  Air  Force  in  Tunisia, 
Sicily,  and  Italy  on  50  missions  and  earned 
four  oak  leaf  clusters.  In  1 944  he  returned 
to  the  U.S.  as  an  instructor  and  mainte- 
nance test  pilot.  He  likes  to  do  repairs, 
plumbing  and  auto  mechanical  work.  His 
1 970  Cutlass  has  logged  1 28,000  miles  and 
still  gets  22  mpg  on  trips.  He  used  to  keep 
bees.  Recently  he  completed  a  course  in 
colored  stone  grading  from  the  Gemologi- 
cal  Institute  of  America.  He  enjoys  skiing, 

Fall  1979    The  WPI  journal    25 


hiking,  Whitewater  canoeing,  and  is  Canoe 
Committee  chairman  and  a  member  of  the 
Appalachian  Mountain  Club.  He  is  a  past 
treasurer  of  his  local  scout  troop  and  Junior 
Achievement  advisor.  He  belongs  to  the 
Instrument  Society  of  America  and  the 
American  Institute  of  Plant  Engineers,  serv- 
ing as  president  of  the  Rhode  Island  chap- 
ter in  1967.  He  is  a  professional  engineer 
and  the  father  of  four. 

Harold  White  has  been  named  vice  pres- 
ident and  general  manager  of  the  newly 
created  Organic  Grinding  Wheel  Division 
at  Norton  Co. ,  Worcester.  The  new  organi- 
zation will  include  the  vitrified  grinding 
wheel  division  and  the  diamond  products 
division,  as  well  as  the  organic  grinding 
wheel  division.  White,  a  registered  profes- 
sional engineer,  was  previously  vice  presi- 
dent and  managing  director  of  abrasive 
operations  in  Northern  Europe. 


1940 

Secretary 

Robert  E  Dunklee,  Jr. 

Rocky  Hill  Rd 

North  Scituate,  Rl 

02857 

Russell  Lupien  has  retired  as  purchasing 
agent  for  George  Meyer  Co.  in  West 
Boylston,  Mass. 


1 941 

Secretary 
Russell  W  Parks 
7250  Brill  Rd 
Cincinnati,  OH 
45243 

Robert  Wilson  continues  with  Field,  Eddy 
and  Buckley,  Inc.,  an  insurance  agency  in 
Springfield,  Mass. 


1942 


Prof.  Roy  Bourgault  of  the  WPI  Mechanical 
Engineering  Department  has  been  elected 
chairman  of  the  Materials  Division  of  the 
American  Society  for  Engineering  Educa- 
tion. 


1943 


Robert  Alexander  holds  the  position  of 
technical  manager  at  Northern  Petro 
Chemical  in  Clinton,  Mass. 


1944 

Secretary 
JohnG  Underhill 
6706  Barkworth  Dr 
Dallas,  TX 
75248 

Joseph  Gibson,  Jr.,  inventor  of  the  Ther- 
mosol  dyeing  process  used  extensively 
throughout  the  world,  has  been  named  the 
1979  recipient  of  The  Olney  Medal  for 
achievement  in  the  textile  industry.  Estab- 
lished in  1 944  by  the  American  Association 
of  Textile  Chemists  and  Colorists,  the 
medal  recognizes  outstanding  achieve- 
ment in  textile  chemistry  or  other  areas  of 
textile  science.  The  award  consists  of  a  gold 
medal,  a  scroll,  and  a  cash  honorarium. 
Gibson,  who  did  graduate  work  at  Prince- 
ton and  MIT,  has  spent  his  entire  profes- 
sional career  at  du  Pont  in  Wilmington, 
Delaware,  where  he  is  currently  a  senior 
research  engineer  in  textile  end-use  re- 
search. During  World  War  II  he  was  in  the 
Naval  Reserve. 

His  accomplishments  as  a  researcher  en- 
compass different  fields.  Besides  the  Ther- 
mosol  continuous  dyeing  process,  he  has 
been  involved  in  the  development  of  more 
comfortable  wearing  apparel  and  the  de- 
velopment of  synthetic  leathers.  He  devel- 
oped a  sparkling  monofilament  textile  fiber 
which  provided  luxurious  fabrics  with  glis- 
tening appearance,  and  nylon  hosiery  with 
improved  fit,  sheerness  and  durability  He 
holds  patents  or  has  written  and  presented 
papers  in  these  fields.  Outside  of  his  profes- 
sion, he  has  been  granted  a  patent  on  a  fish 
swimway  for  an  aquarium  tank;  has  devel- 
oped a  general  theory  on  the  origin  of  the 
universe  leading  up  the  "big  bang"  theory; 
and  presented  a  paper  on  this  theory  in  the 
1978  Louis  Jacot  Competition  in  Paris.  He 
belongs  to  AATCC,  ACS,  the  Fiber  Society, 
Sigma  Xi,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  and  Sigma  Phi 
Epsilon.  He  served  on  the  National  Associa- 
tion of  Hosiery  Manufacturers'  Pantyhose 
Sizing  Committee,  and  is  the  36th  recipient 
of  The  Olney  Medal,  slated  to  be  presented 
during  October  at  AATCC's  annual  na- 
tional technical  conference  in  Cherry  Hill, 
N.J. 

Everett  Johnson  has  moved  from  being 
manager  of  planning  and  administration  to 
manager  of  The  Beacon  Research 
Laboratories  of  Texaco,  Inc.  in  Beacon, 
NY. 


1945 


Prof.  John  Fondahl  of  Stanford  University 
has  returned  from  a  spring  quarter  sabbati- 
cal. He  and  his  wife  Doris  spent  three  weeks 
in  China,  then  six  weeks  with  the  youngest 
of  their  four  daughters  at  Kyoto  University 
in  Japan. . . .  Albert  Myers  was  recently 
elected  vice  president  of  furniture  opera- 


tions at  Lear  Siegler,  Inc.  Previously,  he  was 
vice  president  of  operations  for  fabricated 
products.  Reporting  to  him  are  Borroughs 
Division,  Foam  Products  Division,  National 
Twist  Drill  and  Tool  Division,  No  Sag  Spring 
Division,  and  Plastics  Division.  He  is  located 
in  Rochester,  Michigan. 


1946 

Secretaries: 

M.  Daniel  Lacedonia 

106  Ridge  Rd 

East  Longmeadow,  MA 

01028 

George  H  Conley,  Jr 

213  Stevens  Dr 

Pittsburgh,  PA 

15236 

Paul  Gorman,  group  vice  president  at  Chas. 
T.  Main,  Inc.,  Boston,  has  been  elected  to 
the  board  of  directors  of  the  corporation. 
Elected  a  group  vice  president  in  1978, 
Gorman  is  responsible  for  Chas.  T.  Main's 
engineering  divisions.  In  1975,  he  joined 
Main  as  vice  president  and  manager  of  the 
Nuclear  Division  with  subsequent  respon- 
sibilities as  manager  of  the  Thermal- 
Nuclear  Division.  Earlier,  he  had  been  avice 
president  for  Boston  Power  Division  at 
United  Engineers  and  Constructors,  Inc., 
and  a  director  of  Jackson  &  Moreland 
International,  where  he  was  employed  for 
nearly  thirty  years,  He  holds  an  MS  from 
Northeastern. 

Dean  William  Grogan  has  been  awarded 
the  Carlson  Award  from  the  American  So- 
ciety for  Engineering  Education  for  his 
major  role  in  the  development  of  the  WPI 
Plan. 


1947 

Secretary: 
Alfred  F.  Larkin,  Jr. 
1440E  StandishPI 
Milwaukee,  Wl 
53217 

Dr.  Morrel  Cohen  has  completed  six 
months  leave  at  Kyoto  University,  which  he 
found  "most  pleasant  and  stimulating."  . . . 
Milford  VanDusen  is  presently  an  en- 
gineering staff  consultant  at  Loral  Elec- 
tronic Systems,  Yonkers,  N.Y.  Earlier  he  had 
been  with  AIL  Division,  Cutler  Hammer, 
Eaton  Corp.  ...  In  a  recent  management 
reorganization  at  the  Torrington  Co.,  John 
Williams,  Jr.,  was  named  vice  president  of 
finance  and  administration.  Previously,  he 
was  vice  president  of  the  heavy  bearings 
division.  Since  joining  the  firm  in  1947,  he 
has  served  as  district  sales  manager  and 
general  manager  of  the  heavy  bearings 
plant  at  South  Bend,  Ind.  In  1972  he  be- 
came vice  president  of  heavy  bearings,  and 
in  1 975,  director.  Last  year  he  moved  from 
South  Bend  to  corporate  headquarters  in 
Torrington,  Conn. 


26  /The  WPI  journal  /Fall  1979 


1948 

Secretary: 
Paul E  Evans 
69  Clairmont  St 
Longmeadow,  MA 
01106 

Gordon  Keller  has  retired  from  AVCO's 
Systems  Division. 


1949 

Secretary: 
Howard  J.  Green 
1  Kenilworth  Rd. 
Worcester,  MA 
01602 

James  Adams  has  traveled  to  Japan, 
Taiwan,  Hong  Kong  and  often  to  Greece 
and  other  parts  of  Europe  during  his  career 
as  vice  president  of  marketing  for  the  Gen- 
eral Instrument  Corporation.  He  is  a 
member  of  the  board  of  directors  for  two 
companies  on  Long  Island  and  a  member  of 
the  Long  Island  Association  and  Long  Is- 
land Forum  for  Technology.  He  also  serves 
as  chairman  for  local  scouting  groups, 
board  chairman  for  a  high  school  scholar- 
ship committee,  and  is  involved  in  church 
activities.  His  three  sons,  Bob,  Jim,  and 
John,  will  all  be  in  college  this  fall.  The 
Adamses  reside  in  Glen  Cove,  NY. 

Since  1 952 ,  Walter  Allen,  Jr.  has  been 
with  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft,  East 
Hartford,  Conn.  His  various  posts  have 
included  manager  of  the  Texas  office  and 
manager  of  domestic  marketing  for  the 
central  U.S.  and  Canada.  In  1974  he  be- 
came regional  director  of  Pacific  and  Au- 
stralasia. "Have  made  1 1  trips  around  the 
world  in  this  job."  Currently  he  is  assistant 
to  the  vice  president  of  international  mar- 
keting. He  flies  in  his  Mooney  Executive, 
sky  dives  (215  jumps),  and  skis.  . . .  Dean 
Amidon,  the  new  commissioner  of  the 
Massachusetts  Department  of  Public 
Works,  says  he  lives  "part  time  in  Boston 
and  the  rest  in  the  Berkshires."  Fran  and  he 
have  four  grandchildren  and  three 
daughters-in-law.  He's  had  to  give  up  his 
golf  membership  in  order  to  concentrate  on 
his  latest  professional  responsibilities. 

Willson  Applegate's  son,  Lansing,  just 
finished  his  junior  year  at  WPI.  Daughter 
Marcia  works  for  United  Airlines,  and 
Nancy  is  about  to  enter  Sacramento  State 
University.  Wife  Nikki  does  volunteer  work 
in  churches  and  hospitals  and  holds  semi- 
nars in  colleges.  Applegate  holds  the  post 
of  corporate  director  of  ground  safety  for 
United  Airlines.  Earlier  he  had  been  an 
industrial  hygiene  engineer  in  Vermont  and 
a  safety  engineer  for  Boeing.  He  holds  a 
master's  degree  in  industrial  hygiene  from 
Harvard,  and  sings  in  the  church  choir.  He 
has  been  a  leader  in  the  Air  Transport 
Section  of  the  National  Safety  Council,  the 
American  Society  of  Safety  Engineers,  and 
the  American  Industrial  Hygiene  Associa- 
tion. 


Philip  Buffinton  is  a  director  of  State 
Farm  Fire  and  Casualty  Co.,  Bloomington, 
III.,  where  he  also  holds  the  posts  of  vice 
president,  secretary,  and  chief  administra- 
tive officer.  He  was  a  founder  of  the  former 
National  Flood  Insurers  Association,  and 
presently  belongs  to  the  National  Fire  Pro- 
tection Association,  Seismological  Society 
of  America,  American  Meteorological  Soci- 
ety, and  the  American  Management  Asso- 
ciation. He  is  an  associate  in  the  Casualty 
Actuarial  Society,  a  member  of  the  Ameri- 
can Academy  of  Actuaries,  and  a  registered 
professional  engineer.  He  and  Rita  enjoy 
golfing  here  and  abroad.  They  have  three 
married  daughters  and  a  grandson. 

Thomas  Carlin  serves  as  manager  of 
general  purchases  in  the  Eastern  Division  at 
Wyman  Gordon  Co.  He  is  a  national  cer- 
tified purchasing  manager,  a  registered 
professional  engineer,  and  holds  an  MBA 
from  BU.  He  belongs  to  ASME  and  the 
National  Association  of  Purchasing  Man- 
agement. A  director  of  the  Worcester  chap- 
ter of  NAPM,  he  is  also  a  member  of  the 
Rotary  and  the  Westboro  High  School 
Building  Committee.  The  Carlins  have  fosr 
children,  and  like  golf,  tennis  and  skiing. . . . 
Thomas  Coonan  III  continues  with  Plastic 
Products  and  Resin,  a  department  of  du 
Pont.  He's  been  with  the  firm  27  years  and 
is  presently  a  senior  marketing  assistant  in 
Chicago.  He  has  two  boys  and  a  girl  in  high 
school  and  enjoys  golf  and  Canadian  fish- 
ing. 

With  the  Foxboro  Company  for  nearly 
29  years,  Earl  Cruff  is  currently  manager  of 
project  services  for  D&E.  Son  Carlton  re- 
ceived his  BS  from  WPI  in  1 971 ,  his  MS  in 
1 973 ,  and  is  employed  by  Pratt  &  Whitney. 
His  daughter,  Patti,  graduated  from 
Wheaton.  Earl  and  Glenna  usually  take  an 
annual  trip  to  California  to  see  Patti  and  her 
husband.  . . .  Walter  Dick  is  still  at  Bell 
Telephone  of  Pennsylvania,  where  he  isthe 
design  engineer  for  cable,  microwave,  and 
lightwave  communications  systems  in  the 
western  part  of  the  state. . . .  Len  Fish 
continues  in  the  post  of  senior  vice  presi- 
dent at  the  American  Gas  Association.  He  is 
responsible  for  technology  development, 
training,  meeting  services,  membership 
development  and  international  liasion, 
which  gives  Bobbie  and  him  the  chance  to 
travel  throughout  the  U.S.A.  and  Europe. 

Since  1 954  Orlando  Foss,  Jr.,  has  served 
as  president  of  the  General  Box  Company 
of  Waycross,  Ga.  The  company  makes 
cigar,  school,  and  shoe  boxes  by  its  pat- 
ented method,  on  equipment  which  is 
mostly  of  its  own  design.  Foss  and  Colleen 
have  two  children,  two  step-children,  and 
one  step-grandson.  He  is  an  elder  in  the 
Presbyterian  Church,  is  past  president  of 
the  Rotary  Club  and  the  Chamber  of 
Commerce.  He  is  on  the  advisory  board  of 
the  Southern  Division  of  the  National  Paper 
Box  Association,  and  is  past  director  of  the 
Associated  Industries  of  Georgia.  . . . 
Samuel  Franc,  Jr.  of  Alamo,  Calif,  is  a 
project  manager  for  Raiser  Construction 
Co.,  a  design-build  firm.  At  the  moment, 
the  company  is  working  on  three  office 


buildings,  a  condominium  project,  a  high 
rise  building,  and  is  about  to  start  on 
another  office  building.  On  the  boards:  A 
17-story  hotel  for  Holiday  Inns  and  a  re- 
gional headquarters  for  Fluor.  Franc  is  pres- 
ident of  Danville  Toastmasters,  an  organic 
gardener,  a  photographer,  a  real  estate 
broker,  and  a  "new  runner."  Marcia 
graduated  from  high  school  this  year,  and 
her  sister,  Susan,  isasophomore  witha4.0 
average.  Franc's  wife  Betty  collects  books. 

Charles  Gerber  has  retired  (except  for 
teaching)  as  senior  project  engineer  from 
Mitchell  College,  New  London,  Conn.  He  is 
a  consultant  to  the  College  and  to  the 
Town  of  Old  Lyme.  He  is  associated  with 
the  Salvation  Army,  Senior  Citizens,  and 
many  personal  projects.  Vi  and  he  spent 
several  days  last  winter  with  the  widow  of 
his  cousin  and  classmate,  Karl  Berggren. . . . 
Howard  Green  continues  as  treasurer  of 
Green  Bros,  of  Worcester,  Inc.  His  firm  is 
active  in  the  new  and  used  machine  tool 
business  in  the  U.S.  and  is  expanding  inter- 
nationally. Recently  a  large  addition  was 
built.  Green  is  on  the  national  board  of 
directors  of  the  Machinery  Dealers  Associa- 
tion, which  is  based  in  Washington,  DC. 
His  hobbies  are  golf  and  tennis.  His  political 
activities  are  "confined  to  trying  to  alleviate 
the  product  liability  problems  in  the  U.S." 
He  has  four  children. 

Alfred  Hapgood  has  spent  24  years  in 
lens  manufacturing,  including  12  as  lens 
plant  manager  and  one  year  as  lens  product 
manager  at  American  Optical  Co.,  South- 
bridge,  Mass.  He  has  been  chairman  of  the 
Southbridge  School  Building  Committee 
for  five  years,  a  member  of  the  Cohasse 
Country  Club  board  of  directors  for  six 
years,  and  club  president  for  one  year. 
When  his  two  sons  were  young,  he  assisted 
with  Little  League  and  Pee  Wee  Hockey. 
He  and  his  wife  "vacation  as  often  as 
possible,"  with  Hapgood  enjoying  athletics 
and  fishing — Since  1971  John  Hunter  has 
been  engineering  director  at  General 
Dynamics-Electric  Boat.  He  says,  "We  have 
about  1 1 00  engineers  and  1 700  draftsmen 
and  workers,  who  are  well  into  converting 
to  computer-assisted  plan  production.  We 
already  handle  all  material  ordering  and 
listing  this  way.  The  Trident  (submarine) 
requires  about  13,500  plans  and  200,000 
pieces  of  materials  to  build  one  ship." 
Hunter  is  a  former  mayor  of  Groton,  Conn., 
a  senior  warden  in  the  Episcopal  Church;  a 
licensed  lay  reader;  a  U.S.C  G.  licensed 
operator  of  small  passenger  ships;  a  profes- 
sional engineer;  and  a  member  of  the 
Society  of  Naval  Architects  and  Marine 
Engineers,  and  the  Newcomen  Society.  He 
is  part-time  captain  of  the  last  U.S.  coal- 
fired  passenger  ship  out  of  Mystic,  Conn. 
He  has  three  grown  children. 

Bill  Julian,  past  president  of  the  WPI 
Alumni  Association  and  a  resident  of  Mc- 
lean, Va.,  writes  that  he  expects  he  and  his 
wife  Audrey  will  be  spending  about  six 
months  of  the  year  at  their  new  vacation 
home  at  Willoughby  Lake  in  Vermont. 
They  enjoy  sailing  and  are  avid  bridge 
players.  Carol  Ann  is  a  special  education 

Fall  1979 /The  WPI  Journal/ 27 


teacher;  Debra,  an  environmental  scientist; 
and  Allen,  a  senior  at  the  University  of 
Virginia.  .  .  .  Peter  Kahn  serves  as  a  manu- 
facturers' agent  for  chemical  processing 
equipment,  along  with  equipment  for  air 
pollution  and  liquid  wastes  treatment  and 
control.  His  firm,  Peter  A.  Kahn  and  Co.,  is 
located  in  Newton,  Mass.  His  daughter, 
Merle,  who  has  a  PhD  in  food  chemistry, 
works  for  Reynolds  Metal.  Eric  is  a  market- 
ing zone  manager  for  Lincoln-Mercury  Di- 
vision of  Ford,  out  of  the  Denver  office. 

Robert  Lawrence  has  been  with  the  U.S' 
Department  of  Commerce  for  30  years  and 
is  presently  involved  with  the  development 
of  novel  optical  techniques  for  measuring 
the  physical  properties  of  the  atmosphere. 
"How  about  a  volume-averaging  wind 
sensor  that  sits  in  a  small  box  on  your  desk 
and  gets  its  information  by  simply  looking 
out  of  the  window?"  For  fifteen  years  he 
and  Pam  have  flown  their  plane  on  busi- 
ness and  pleasure  trips  to  Glacier  Bay, 
Newfoundland,  and  the  Peruvian  Andes. 
They  flew  to  Worcester  for  his  25th  reun- 
ion. Viki  is  a  geologist  and  Vernon  is  a  math 
student  at  the  University  of  Idaho.  .  .  . 
Sidney  Madwed,  who  served  this  year  as  a 
head  agent  for  the  class,  writes  that  he 
swims  five  miles  a  week.  He  has  been 
involved  with  scouting,  his  synagogue,  and 
is  interested  in  photography.  His  firm, 
Madwed  Manufacturing  Co.,  Bridgeport, 
Conn.,  specializes  in  zinc  die  casting,  an- 
tique plating,  and  brass  plating,  light  steel 
fabrication,  and  electropolishing.  Son  Bert 
is  with  Westinghouse  in  Pittsburgh.  Susan 
works  as  an  assistant  fashion  designer  at 
Parade  Dress  Co.,  New  York  City.  Mark  is 
at  Northeastern  and  Sarah  is  a  high  school 
junior. 

Harold  Melden,  Jr.  has  been  named  vice 
president  of  gas  supply  at  Commonwealth 
Gas  Co.  On  a  recent  trip  to  Alaska  and  the 
Yukon  Territory,  he  saw  his  oldest  son, 
Mark.  Kurk,  with  a  BSEE  degree  from  Union 
College,  is  at  Data  General.  Daughter  Sue  is 
a  student  at  the  University  of  Maine.  His 
wife  June  plays  and  teaches  tennis.  . . . 
Robert  Miller,  Jr.  is  employed  by  Gilbert- 
Commonwealth  of  Jackson,  Mich.  Cur- 
rently he  is  project  manager  assigned  to 
Montreal  working  in  tandem  with  a  Cana- 
dian consulting  company.  The  project  in- 
volves the  electrification  of  the  central  re- 
gion of  Saudi  Arabia.  .  .  .  Since  graduation 
Harry  Mochon,  Jr.,  has  been  associated 
with  electric  utilities,  including  Hartford 
Electric  Light  Co.  and  the  Connecticut  Val- 
ley Power  Exchange.  Presently  he  is  direc- 
tor of  the  New  England  Power  Exchange. 
He  has  two  daughters,  one  a  lawyer  in 
California  and  the  other  a  social  worker  in 
Massachusetts.  Mochon  has  served  as 
chairman  of  the  North  American  Power 
Systems  Interconnection  Committee.  A 
registered  professional  engineer,  he  also 
belongs  to  the  Technical  Advisory  Commit- 
tee of  the  National  Electric  Reliability 
Council.  He  is  an  avid  golfer. 


Henry  Mogensen  holds  the  post  of  man- 
ager of  the  Lapmaster  Division  (Machine 
Tool)  of  Crane  Packing  Co.  in  Chicago.  Last 
September  he  left  Warner  &  Swasey  Grind- 
ing Machine  after  more  than  27  years  of 
service.  .  .  .  Still  with  Feecon  Corp., 
Westboro,  Mass.,  Walter  Mussoni  now 
serves  as  general  sales  manager  of  the 
company.  The  firm  manufactures  and  de- 
signs fire  suppression  systems  for  airports, 
refineries,  and  municipalities.  He  and  Janice 
have  two  boys  and  two  girls.  "Golf  has  to 
be  my  primary  hobby. "  . . .  John  Snyder  has 
joined  Pepsi-Cola  Co.  in  Philadelphia, 
where  he  is  manager  of  packaging  re- 
search. 


1950 

Secretary 

Lester  J.  Reynolds,  Jr 

15  Cherry  Lane 

Basking  Ridge,  NJ 

07920 

Robert  Hallisey  serves  as  engineering 
supervisor  of  the  test  equipment  depart- 
ment at  Hughes  Aircraft  Co.  in  Fullerton, 
Calif.  . .    David  Humphrey  is  a  self- 
employed  manufacturers'  representative 
"living  on  a  farm  in  beautiful  Carroll 
County"  in  Maryland.  He  is  currently  re- 
storing a  1 927  American  LaFrance  pumper. 
He  sees  duty  as  a  maintenance  officer  and 
pilot  for  the  Civil  Air  Patrol. 


1954 

Secretary 
Roger  R  Osell 
18  Eliot  Rd 
Lexington,  MA 
02173 

Paul  Alasso  holds  the  post  of  product 
manager  for  textile  coating  and  bonding 
polyurethane  products  for  a  division  of 
Mobay  Chemical  Corp.  Prior  to  joining  the 
company  in  1976,  he  had  been  with 
Midland-Dexter,  Trancoa  Chemical,  Per- 
muthane  Division  of  Beatrice  Foods  and 
Union  Carbide.  The  Alassos  live  in  Med- 
field,  Mass.,  and  have  two  children,  Sarah, 
13,  and  Andrew,  11 ...  .  "Thirteen  years  in 
the  Maine  woods  with  the  B  &  A  (Bangor  & 
Aroostook  Railroad)  have  been  very  re- 
warding ones,"  writes  Owen  Allen,  who 
works  for  the  mechanical  department.  Ear- 
lier he  had  been  employed  by  Union  Car- 
bide, New  York  Central  Railroad,  and  Fos- 
ter Wheeler  Corp.  He  holds  a  bachelor  of 
divinity  degree  from  the  Drew  University 
Theological  School,  and  once  served  as  a 
co-pastor  of  a  circuit  of  four  Methodist 
churches  in  Massachusetts.  He  has  hiked 
the  2000-mile  length  of  the  Appalachian 
Trail,  the  story  appearing  as  part  of  a 
two-volume  book,  Hiking  the  Appalachian 
Trail.  Owen  and  Candy  have  three  chil- 
dren. 


David  Bisson's  current  principal  activity 
is  Frederick  Beck  Originals,  a  former  cus- 
tomer, which  he  purchased.  The  firm  pro- 
duces a  fine  line  of  design  Christmas  cards 
which  are  sold  in  the  finest  stores.  Bisson  is 
still  chairman,  but  is  in  the  process  of  selling 
his  silk  screen  printing  company,  which 
developed  into  the  largest  screen  printing 
business  in  the  San  Francisco  area.  For  ten 
years  he  had  been  a  sales  engineer  in  San 
Francisco  for  Union  Carbide  Plastics.  Earlier 
he  did  food  research  in  Chicago.  Active  in 
church  and  city  politics,  Bisson  also  reads 
extensively,  skis,  and  camps  out.  The  two 
older  children  are  business  majors  at  Berke- 
ley and  the  youngest  is  in  high  school. 
The  family  resides  in  Millbrae,  Calif.  ...  In 
January,  W.  Richard  Byrnes  joined 
Goldsmith  &  Eggleton  of  Akron,  Ohio.  He 
is  brokering  plastic  resins  and  compounds 
as  well  as  representing  two  other  manufac- 
turers. Previous  employers  were  Air  Prod- 
ucts &  Chemicals,  Inc.J.T.  Baker  Chemical 
Co.;  and  Arthur  D.  Little,  Inc.,  Cambridge, 
Mass.,  where  he  worked  with  Wil  Kranich 
and  Roger  Osell.  He  has  belonged  to  the 
Lions  Club,  Jaycees,  Toastmasters  Interna- 
tional and  church  organizations.  Other  in- 
terests are  the  music  theater,  scouting  and 
children's  athletics.  Byrnes  and  Bette  have 
three  children. 

Lee  Catineau  says,  "Life  has  been  good 
to  us."  His  leisure-time  interests  have  been 
geared  to  working  with  kids  in  baseball, 
hockey,  football  and  those  with  problems. 
The  Catineaus  have  two  boys:  Ted,  1 9,  and 
Don,  18.  Lee  is  presently  a  broker  with 
Loeb  Rhoades,  Hornblower,  Inc.  in 
Worcester.  He  has  previously  been  with 
Bache,  du  Pont,  and  the  Atomic  Energy 
Commission.  .  .  .  Harry  Chapell  of 
Maynard,  Mass.  is  a  past  president  of  the 
Lions  Club,  former  Civil  Defense  radio  of- 
ficer, chairman  of  the  high  school  building 
committee,  and  has  been  chairman  of  the 
Conservation  Commission  since  its  forma- 
tion. He  is  the  chief  engineer  at  Sage  Labs, 
after  having  worked  for  Raytheon  and  Bell 
Labs.  At  Sage  he  is  concerned  with  the 
designing  of  microwave  components  and 
instruments.  He  helped  develop  the  lunar 
lander,  has  several  patents,  and  has  written 
technical  papers.  The  Chapells  have  two 
daughters,  a  son,  Robert,  '78,  and  two 
granddaughters. 

Recently,  Elmer  L.  Corujo  was  appointed 
director  of  Latin  America  sales  for  Harris 
Corporation.  He  joined  the  firm  two  years 
ago.  Previously,  he  was  in  management 
and  international  sales  with  Raytheon  and 

RCA Last  year  Allan  Costantin  resigned 

from  Union  Carbide  to  become  vice  presi- 
dent of  Gibson  Associates  in  Cranford,  N.J. 
The  company  manufactures  over  one  bil- 
lion thermoplastic  closures  each  year  for 
major  soap,  toiletries,  cosmetics,  food,  and 
liquor  companies.  With  the  exception  of  his 
service  in  the  Medical  Service  Corps.,  Cos- 
tantin had  been  with  Union  Carbide  since 
graduation.  In  1958  he  and  Dave  Bisson 


28  /The  WP1  journal  /Fall  1979 


"covered  the  Northwest"  for  the  firm's 
Plastics  Division.  He  became  the  sole  plas- 
tics representative  in  Texas,  Oklahoma, 
and  Arkansas.  In  1965  he  was  appointed 
group  leader  in  the  R&D  department  in 
Bound  Brook,  N.J.  and  dealt  with  P.V.C.  In 
1 973  he  was  named  sales  manager  of  the 
eastern  region.  He  has  an  MBA  from  Rut- 
gers. The  family,  including  six  children, 
enjoys  skiing  and  sailing.  ...  A  long-time 
employee  of  CE,  Kenneth  Cross  writes: 
"We  have  developed,  installed  and  oper- 
ated (for  the  Air  Force)  large  radars  for 
BMEWS  and  for  tracking  satellites,  includ- 
ing many  based  overseas  in  Turkey,  Thai- 
land, and  Alaska."  His  most  interesting 
experience  has  been  as  a  project  engineer 
on  an  experimental  infrared  program 
which  took  him  to  Mississippi,  Vandenberg 
AFB,  Calif.,  and  Cape  Canaveral.  The 
Crosses  and  "two  very  wonderful  adopted 
children"  reside  in  Baldwinsville,  NY. 

Still  with  Scovill  Mfg.  Co.,  Apparel  Fas- 
tener Division,  Walter  Dziura  now  holds 
the  post  of  manager  of  contract  engineer- 
ing and  has  five  patents.  He  is  the  father  of 
six,  one  son  currently  attending  WPI.  For 
many  years  he  was  a  Boy  Scout  committee 
man.  He  is  active  in  hunting,  fishing,  and 
conservation  work  at  the  Rod  &  Gun  Club. 
He  teaches  grafting  as  an  aid  to  wildlife.  A 
member  of  ASME,  he  is  also  a  certified 
engineer  and  a  Junior  Achievement  ad- 
visor. . . .  During  the  last  22  years  with  U.S. 
Steel,  Robert  Fish  has  been  concerned  with 
the  engineering  of  products  and  applica- 
tions of  wire  rope  and  structural  steel 
strand  from  all  production  and  commercial 
aspects.  His  career  has  taken  him  hundreds 
of  thousands  of  miles  in  the  southern  and 
eastern  U.S.  and  on  occasional  foreign 
expeditions  to  China,  Australia,  and  South 
America.  Earlier,  he  worked  for  the  Mas- 
sachusetts and  Connecticut  State  Highway 
Departments  and  the  Army  Corps  of  En- 
gineers. The  Fishers  have  five  children,  "all 
Yankee-born,  and  now  all  dedicated 
Southern  rebels!"  They  live  outside  of  Bir- 
mingham, Alabama. 

Joe  Fratino  began  at  Columbia  Gas 
Transmission  Corp.  in  1954  and  is  now 
director  of  engineer  services  in  Charleston, 
W.  Va.  He  is  a  registered  engineer  and  is 
involved  with  the  ASME,  API,  and  AGA.  For 
a  number  of  years  he  belonged  to  the 
Optimist  International.  He  also  coached 
young  people's  basketball  and  baseball 
teams.  The  Fratinos'  daughter  Lori  is  mar- 
ried and  attending  Ohio  State  University; 
Maria  is  planning  to  attend  Marshall  Col- 
lege; and  Michele  is  13.  .  .  .  Continuing 
with  du  Pont,  David  Gilbert  now  serves  as 
plant  managerforthe  firm  in  Antioch,  Calif. 
He  had  been  assistant  plant  manager  at  du 
Pont's  largest  chemical  plant  in  New  Jersey. 
He  has  participated  in  the  PTA,  scouting, 
and  local  politics.  He  and  Fran  are  the 
parents  of  Lesley,  a  graduate  of  West  Ches- 
ter (Pa.)  State  College;  Dave,  Jr.,  a  student 
at  Diablo  Valley  College;  and  Betsy,  also  a 


Diablo  student  in  California.  In  his  "older 
years"  Gilbert  has  given  up  basketball  and 
has  switched  to  tennis  and  skiing. ...  Dr. 
Richard  E.  Gilbert  flies  and  runs,  but  says  he 
is  "not  much  good  at  either. "  He  teaches  at 
the  University  of  Nebraska,  is  married,  and 
has  five  children. 

John  Herz  is  currently  active  in  the  ven- 
ture field  handling  corporate  reorganiza- 
tions and  business  development  assign- 
ments for  private  firms.  He  had  been  vice 
president  of  marketing  at  Siemens  Corp./ 
U.S.,  and  was  associated  with  North  Amer- 
ican Philips,  and  Veeco  Instruments,  Inc. 
For  years  he  was  in  the  electronics  field 
handling  sales,  marketing,  and  corporate 
planning  and  development  which  included 
assignments  in  Europe,  the  USSR,  and  the 
Near  and  Far  East.  Earlier,  he  spent  eight 
years  in  mechanical  engineering.  He  has  an 
MBA  from  NYU.  He,  wife  Use,  and  three 
children  reside  in  Stamford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Bill 
Hills'  firm,  Hills'  Research  and  Develop- 
ment, Inc.,  Melbourne,  Fla.,  continues  as  a 
manufacturer  of  complete  machinery  sys- 
tems for  synthetic  fiber  extrusion.  A 
member  of  ASME,  Hills  also  holds  about  25 
U.S.  patents.  During  his  career  he  was  with 
Chemstrand  Corp.,  now  merged  into  Mon- 
santo, until  starting  his  own  business  in 
1 971 .  He  headed  the  development  of  a 
number  of  fabrics  and  fibers  while  with 
Monsanto.  Bill  and  his  wife  have  two  sons. 
Since  1 977,  Mel  Holmgren  has  been  self 
employed  with  Sitka  Electronics  Lab., 
marine  electronics  service  and  sales,  in 
Sitka,  Alaska.  He  has  also  been  employed 
by  the  Geophysical  Institute  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  Alaska,  FAA  of  Anchorage,  and 
Collins  Radio  Co.,  Cedar  Rapids,  Iowa.  He 
attended  Bethel  Theological  Seminary  and 
was  involved  with  the  Missionary  Com- 
munication Service.  He  enjoys  hunting, 
fishing,  boating,  housebuilding,  church  ac- 
tivities, and  ham  radio.  The  Holmgrens 
have  seven  children.  .  .  .  Adrian  Horovitz, 
vice  president  of  Harwood  Mfg.  Co.,  Pro- 
vidence, R.I.,  is  president  of  Temple  Sinai  in 
Cranston,  R.I.  He  has  served  as  president  of 
the  Hamilton  Sinai  Bowling  League  and  as 
vice  president  of  the  Rhode  Island  Jewish 
Bowling  Congress  for  two  years.  Horovitz 
and  Deborah  have  two  children,  Amy,  19, 
and  Jeffrey,  16.  .  .  .  David  Hoyle's  career 
has  been  in  the  field  of  instrumentation 
with  major  emphasis  on  applied  control 
system  design.  He  is  chief  instrument  en- 
gineer for  an  engineering  contracting  firm 
in  Boston,  and  has  published  several  papers 
on  control  system  design.  The  Hoyles  have 
one  child  out  of  college;  three  in  college; 
and  a  10-year-old  at  home.  Restoration  of 
a  200-year-old  house  keeps  Hoyle  busy. 

The  main  hobby  for  George  Idlis  is 
swimming,  a  daily  activity.  He  is  a  swim 
meet  official  and  officiates  at  the  high 
school  and  college  level  in  AAU  competi- 
tion. He  works  for  Storti  Associates  of 
Warwick,  R.I.,  as  a  management  consul- 
tant specializing  in  management  recruiting, 


"A  career  change  I  found  both  stimulating, 
challenging,  and  rewarding."  He  had  been 
with  Bethlehem  Steel  Co.,  Shipbuilding  Di- 
vision, and  several  other  companies.  His 
children  are  Bonnie,  Amy,  and  Michael.  He 
is  a  past  PTA  president  and  officer  in  his 
Temple.  ...  At  last  count,  Ted  Jaros  had 
visited  32  countries  concerning  prospects 
for  sales,  marketing  contracts,  licensing 
agreements,  joint  ventures,  or  wholly 
owned  foreign  investment.  Currently,  he  is 
vice  president  and  director  of  strategic 
marketing  for  the  Semiconductor  Group  of 
Motorola,  Inc.  Other  employers  have  been 
Texas  Instruments  and  GE.  Daughter  Susan 
is  in  her  last  year  of  law  school;  Joe  is  at 
Loyola  Marymount;  and  Andy  is  a  junior  in 
high  school.  Jaros'  wife  Helen  is  a  branch 
manager  for  Southwest  Savings  &  Loan 
Corp.,  Phoenix,  and  has  an  MBA  from 
Arizona  State  University. 

D.  Alden  Johnson  of  Sturbridge,  Mass., 
vice  president  of  Montgomery  Co.,  Inc.  is 
also  owner  of  Hickory  Ridge  Country  Club. 
Formerly,  he  was  employed  by  IBM,  by 
Hornblower  &  Weeks,  Hemphill  Noyes, 
and  by  American  Optical  Co.  He  is  a  direc- 
tor of  the  Massachusetts  Flower  Growers 
Association,  a  corporator  of  Nonotuck  Sav- 
ings Bank,  president  of  Sturbridge  Basket- 
ball League,  and  is  active  in  church  affairs, 
and  coaching  basketball  and  baseball.  He 
likes  golf  and  skiing  and  has  an  MBA  from 
AIC.  He  and  wife  Pat  are  the  parents  of 

Paul,  15,  and  Karl,  14 Presently,  Jaak 

Jurison  holds  the  post  of  manager  of  Digi- 
tal Systems.  While  with  what  is  now 
Rockwell  International,  he  designed  and 
directed  the  development  of  several  digital 
computers  for  avionics  and  space  systems. 
He  was  associated  with  Sperry  Gyroscope 
Co.,  and  IBM's  Watson  Laboratories.  He 
has  an  MSEE  from  Columbia.  For  two  years 
he  served  in  the  U.S.  Army  Signal  Corps.  He 
is  interested  in  computer  architecture,  mi- 
croprocessors and  fault  tolerant  computer 
systems,  and  has  lectured  on  avionics  com- 
puters at  U.C.L.A.  The  Jurisons  enjoy 
Southern  California  living:  "Beaches.  Sail- 
ing. Tennis." 


1957 

Secretary: 

Dr  Robert  A  Yates 

11  Oak  Ridge  Dr 

Bethany,  CT 

06525 

Alex  Papianou's  daughter  is  a  freshman 
electrical  engineering  major  at  WPI.  . . . 
Formerly  the  operations  manager  of 
Sprague  Electric  Company's  filter  division 
in  North  Adams,  Mass.,  Robert  Purple  was 
recently  named  general  manager  of 
Sprague's  thick-film  circuit  operations  in 
Nashua,  N.H.  In  1 958  he  joined  the  firm  as 
a  radio  interference  filter  engineer  in  Ohio. 
Since  then,  he  has  held  various  engineer- 
ing, project  manager,  plant  manager,  and 
marketing  posts  in  the  division. 


Fall  1979 /The  WPI  Journal/ 29 


IF  YOU  EVER  need  to  inspect  the 
interior  of  a  beaver  hut,  call  Donald 
A.  Cangnan,  MS  '59.  He  can  help  you 
out.  He  once  helped  the  U.S.  Depart- 
ment of  Interior  peek  into  beaver 
huts  to  take  a  population  count. 

Carignan  is  the  president  of  In- 
strument Technology,  Inc.  (ITI),  West- 
field,  Mass.,  an  engineering  company 
specializing  in  the  design,  develop- 
ment, and  manufacture  of  remote 
viewing  instruments  and  systems. 
His  firm  designed  a  portable  bores- 
cope  with  illumination  to  assist  U.S. 
park  rangers  in  their  beaver  census. 

ITI,  started  in  1973  by  Carignan, 
manufactures  periscopes,  telescopes, 
borescopes,  fiber  optic  systems,  and 
closed-circuit  TV  systems.  "Our  re- 
mote viewing  instruments  permit  the 
viewing,  inspection,  or  photographing 
of  inaccessible  objects  or  objects  lo- 
cated in  a  hostile  environment,"  he 
explains.  Applications  for  the  instru- 
ments include  viewing  into  high  ra- 
diation areas,  looking  underwater, 
and  viewing  into  high  and  low  tem- 
perature, highly  toxic,  or  explosive 
environments,  and  into  inaccessible 
areas. 

Prior  to  founding  his  company, 
Carignan  was  an  engineering  man- 
ager at  American  Optical  Company, 
Southbridge,  Mass.,  and  later  a  senior 
engineer  at  Kollmorgen  Corp.,  Nor- 
thampton, Mass.  Since  1973,  ITI, 
which  deals  primarily  with  quality 
assurance  engineers  and  provides 
them  with  instruments  necessary  for 
visual  inspection,  has  grown  from 
five  to  twenty  employees.  In  1980, 
sales  are  expected  to  reach  $1  mil- 
lion. Carignan  remains  the  optical 
systems  engineer  for  the  company, 

30  /The  Wl'l  journal /Fall  1979 


and  he  is  personally  responsible  for 
development  of  all  systems. 

A  large  portion  of  ITI's  business 
is  with  the  nuclear  industry,  which 
relies  rather  extensively  on  remote 
viewing  systems  for  operation  and  in- 
spection. ITI  is  currently  the  major 
manufacturer  of  optical  systems  for 
the  U.S.  and  Canadian  nuclear  indus- 
try, and  manufactures  several  items 
for  export.  ITI  remote  viewing  sys- 
tems are  presently  in  use  in  Japan,  In- 
dia, Pakistan,  the  Republic  of  China, 
and  in  several  European  countries. 

The  company  is  also  involved  in 
the  breeder  reactor  program  with 
Westinghouse,  and  it  has  supplied 
the  special  periscopes  for  the  test 
reactor  (FFTF)  at  Hanford,  Washing- 
ton. Knowledge  gained  in  the  design 
of  periscopes  for  the  FFTF  will  be 
used  in  the  first  commercial  breeder 
reactor  at  Clinch  River,  Tennessee. 

The  future  growth  of  the  com- 
pany, however,  may  be  in  its  new 
borescope  instrument  line  due  for  re- 
lease in  January  1980.  Borescopes  are 
long,  small-diameter  optical  instru- 
ments used  for  looking  into  inaccessi- 
ble areas.  The  airlines  and  aircraft  in- 
dustries rely  heavily  on  borescopes 
for  internal  inspection  of  jet  turbine 
engines.  Under  a  development  con- 
tract funded  by  United  Airlines  in 
1977,  ITI  developed  a  special  jet  en- 
gine borescope  which  is  now  in  use 
at  all  United  Airlines  service  centers. 
Other  airlines  are  now  purchasing  ITI 
borescopes  because  of  the  experience 
gained  by  United.  ITI  was  recently  se- 
lected by  General  Electric  and  the 
U.S.  Navy  to  supply  borescopes  for 
the  Navy's  new  F-18  Hornet  aircraft. 


Besides  serving  as  president  of 
ITI,  Don  Carignan  has  other  profes- 
sional interests.  He  serves  as  a  con- 
sultant to  Princeton  University  for 
the  desing  of  remote  viewing  systems 
for  the  Tokamak  fusion  reactor.  In 
November  he  traveled  to  Vienna, 
Austria,  to  meet  with  representatives 
of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  (IAEA)  to  assist  in  the  devel- 
opment of  international  safeguard  in- 
spection systems.  He  is  a  member  of 
the  American  Nuclear  Society  and 
current  chairman  of  Sub  Group  1 1.5, 
which  is  responsible  for  setting  stan- 
dards for  remote  viewing  optical  in- 
struments. He  is  also  a  member  of 
the  American  Society  for  Non- 
Destructive  Testing,  Inc. 

Don  lives  with  his  wife  Jan  in 
Westfied.  His  oldest  daughter,  Dawn, 
is  married  and  living  in  Vermont.  His 
three  other  children  —  Greg,  21;  Jeff, 
20;  and  Pamela,  1 8  —  are  all  engi- 
neering students  at  Southeastern 
Massachusetts  University.  "If  any  one 
of  them  wishes  to  pursue  graduate 
work  in  engineering,  I'd  like  them  to 
attend  WPI."  In  the  meantime,  the 
boys  work  for  ITI  during  vacations 
and  have  learned  to  operate  every 
lathe  and  milling  machine  in  the 
shop.  For  the  last  two  years  they  have 
worked  on  the  drawing  boards.  "It 
would  be  nice  to  have  them  join  me, 
but  I'm  not  pushing  it."  Pam  wants  to 
combine  engineering  and  architec- 
ture. 

Because  of  his  engineering  back- 
ground, Don  was  appointed  to  the 
Westfield  High  School  Building  Com- 
mittee in  1970,  and  he  takes  pride  in 
the  new  school.  It  took  almost  six 
years  to  build:  four  years  to  get  voter 
approval,  and  two  years  for  construc- 
tion. Don  belonged  to  Rotary  for  two 
years,  but,  because  of  his  extensive 
traveling,  he  reluctantly  submitted 
his  resignation. 

For  relaxation,  Carignan  is  in- 
volved in  studying  World  War  II  in 
the  Pacific,  and  his  collection  of 
books  on  the  subject  is  growing 
steadily.  His  favorite  means  of  relax- 
ation, however,  is  sailing.  He  charters 
a  22-foot  boat  and  sails  out  of 
Westbrook,  Conn. 


1958 

Secretary: 
Harry  R  Rydstrom 
132  Sugartown  Rd 
Devon,  PA 
19333 

Joseph  Gill  has  been  elected  a  school 
committee  member  in  Southboro,  Mass., 
filling  a  vacancy  caused  by  a  resignation. 
He  has  a  master's  degree  in  business  admin- 
istration from  the  Wharton  School  at  the 
University  of  Pennsylvania,  and  is  a 
member  of  the  advisory  committee  created 
to  review  the  schools'  progress  in  the 
state-mandated  basic  skills  program.  He  is 
the  president  and  owner  of  Vee-Arc  Corp., 
a  manufacturer  of  electric  motor  drives. 
The  Gills  have  five  children. 


1959 


Secretary: 

Dr  Frederick  H  Lutze,  Jr 

11  OCamelot  Court  NW 

Blacksburg,  VA 

24060 


Continuing  with  du  Pont,  F.  William 
Famsworth  is  now  plant  superintendent  in 
Victoria,  Texas.  . . .  Lawrence  Lavallee,  a 
senior  engineer  with  RCA,  is  on  a  radar  field 
assignment  at  Kwajalein  Missile  Range  in 
the  Marshall  Islands. . . .  Philip  Peirce  holds 
the  post  of  quality  control  manager  of  the 

Worcester  Group  at  Wright  Machine In 

June  Joseph  Prindle  completed  20  years  of 
service  with  West  Penn  Power  Company 
and  became  a  member  of  the  firm's  Veter- 
ans' Association.  He  is  division  planning 
engineer  at  Keystone  Division  headquar- 
ters near  St.  Mary's,  Pa.  In  1959  he  joined 
West  Penn  as  a  cadet  engineer  at  the 
Greensburg  general  office.  He  became  dis- 
trict planning  engineer  at  Butler  in  1 960, 
transferring  to  Ridgway  then  St.  Mary's  the 
following  year.  In  1964  he  was  promoted 
to  division  planning  engineer.  He  belongs 
to  the  Elks  and  the  American  Legion. 


i960 

Secretary: 
Paul  W  Bayliss 
170WyngateDr 
Barrtngton,  IL 
60010 

Shepard  Brodie  is  employed  as  sales  man- 
ager at  Control  Signal  Corp.,  Denver,  Col- 
orado. ...  Dr.  Armand  Ferro  has  been 
appointed  manager  of  the  SEF  and  Elec- 
tronic Ballast  Program  at  the  GE  Research 
and  Development  Center  in  Schenectady, 
N.Y.  He  now  heads  a  group  of  engineers 
and  scientists  engaged  in  developing  new 
kinds  of  high-efficiency  lighting  systems. 


Previously,  he  served  as  manager  of  the 
Device  Physics  Unit  and  had  also  been 
responsible  for  the  development  of  new 
computer  programs  for  simulating  the  be- 
havior of  a  wide  range  of  power  semicon- 
ductor devices.  He  joined  GE  in  1960  at  the 
Electronics  Laboratory  in  Syracuse.  In  1964 
he  started  work  at  the  Center  as  an  electri- 
cal engineer.  He  has  since  specialized  in  the 
study  of  solid  state  devices  for  electronic 
power  control,  ranging  from  consumer  to 
electric  utility  applications.  As  manager  of 
the  Center's  Power  Module  Program,  he 
specialized  in  high-speed  switching  thyris- 
tors  and  new  methods  for  fabricating  metal 
ceramic  substrates  for  use  in  hybrid  device 
assemblies.  He  has  written  or  co-authored 
34  technical  publications  and  holds  1 5  pat- 
ents. He  has  a  PhD  from  RPI,  and  is  a 
member  of  IEEE.  He,  his  wife,  and  two 
children  reside  in  Schenectady. 


1961 

Secretary: 
John  J  Gabarro 
8  Monadnock  Rd 
Arlington,  MA 
02174 

Kenneth  Engvall  was  recently  elected  a 
selectman  in  Boylston,  Mass.  He  received 
282  of  325  votes  cast.  Engvall  is  a  civil 
engineer  and  land  surveyor  at  Thompson- 
Liston  Associates,  Inc.,  Worcester.  A 
Boylston  resident,  he  has  served  on  the 


local  finance  committee  and  zoning  advi- 
sory committee.  Also,  he  has  been  a  coach 
and  officer  with  the  Little  League.  He  and 
his  wife  Betsy  have  two  children  in  Boylston 
schools. 

John  Gabarro,  an  authority  on  human 
behavior  in  organizations,  has  been  pro- 
moted from  associate  professor  to  profes- 
sor of  business  administration  at  the  Har- 
vard Business  School.  He  holds  an  MBA  and 
DBA  from  Harvard,  and  joined  the  Business 
School  faculty  as  a  research  assistant  in 
1967.  Earlier  he  had  spent  two  years  in  the 
Army  Signal  Corps,  and  worked  in  the 
Electronics  Division  of  Corning  Glass 
Works.  Among  his  recent  publications, 
some  coauthored,  are  "Socialization  at  the 
Top"  in  Organizational  Dynamics;  Inter- 
personal Behavior;  and  "Teaching  Inter- 
personal Behavior."  He  is  currently  writing 
a  new  book  about  the  ways  in  which  new 
general  managers  develop  effective  work- 
ing relationships  with  key  subordinates.  A 
director  of  Town  and  Country,  Inc., 
Chelsea,  Mass.,  Gabarro  is  also  a  member 
of  the  editorial  boards  of  "Exchange,"  and 
the  Public  Policy  and  Management  Pro- 
gram of  the  Intercollegiate  Case  Clearing 
House.  He  belongs  to  the  American 
Sociological  Association  and  the  Academy 
of  Management,  and  is  a  member  and 
director  of  the  Organizational  Behavior 
Teaching  Society.  His  wife,  Marilyn,  is 
chairman  of  the  Department  of  Design  at 
Massachusetts  College  of  Art.  The  Gabar- 
ros  and  their  eight-year-old  daughter, 
Jana,  reside  in  Arlington,  Mass. 


Morgan  R.  Rees,  '61,  of  Worcester  re- 
ceives the  Meritorious  Civilian  Ser- 
vice Medal  from  Colonel  John  P. 
Chandler,  head  of  the  New  England 
Division,  U.S.  Army  Corps  of  Engi- 
neers. Rees,  who  is  chief  of  the  Regu- 
latory Branch  at  Corps  headquarters 
in  Waltham,  Mass.,  was  commended 


for  "outstanding  professional  ability, 
innovative  leadership,  and  unflagging 
dedication  to  purpose."  He  is  now  on 
loan  to  Corps  headquarters  in  Wash- 
ington, D.C.,  to  assist  in  reformulat- 
ing regulations  governing  permit 
authorities.  He  and  his  wife,  Janet,  are 
the  parents  of  one  son,  Bradley. 


Fall  1979 /The  WP1  Journal/ 31 


m 


mm 


1962 

Secretary: 
Harry  T  Rapelje 
1313  Parma  Hilton  Rd 
Hilton,  NY 
14468 

Roland  Beauregard  works  as  plant  en- 
gineer at  Glass  Container  in  Dayville,  Conn. 
...  In  August,  Cdr.  Brian  O'Connell  was 
reassigned  as  head  of  the  Facilities  Planning 
Dept.  in  the  Western  Division  of  the  Naval 
Facilities  Engineering  Command.  He  is  re- 
sponsible for  facilities  planning  and  real 
estate  for  all  Navy  and  Marine  Corps  ac- 
tivities in  the  western  U.S. 


1963 

Secretary: 

Robert  E  Maynard,  Jr. 

8  Institute  Rd 

North  Grafton,  MA 

01536 

Robert  Jamaitis  has  been  promoted  to 
operations  manager  of  Norden  Systems,  a 
subsidiary  of  United  Technologies  Corp.  in 
Norwalk,  Conn.  He  is  responsible  for  man- 
aging, planning  and  coordinating  Norden's 
manufacturing,  engineering,  production 
and  plant  engineering  programs  in  Nor- 
walk. Most  recently,  Jamaitis  served  as 
manufacturing  manager.  Since  joining  the 
firm  in  1963,  he  has  also  been  production 
control  manager,  overhaul  and  repair 
supervisor,  and  manufacturing  engineering 
supervisor.  He  holds  an  MBA  from  the 
University  of  Bridgeport.  The  Jamaitises, 
who  reside  in  Trumbull,  have  three  chil- 
dren  Robert  Mellor  ran  for  a  three-year 

term  as  road  commissioner  in  Northbridge, 
Mass.  in  May.  He  is  a  former  road  commis- 
sioner and  chairman  of  the  Board  of  Ap- 
peals. He  is  a  registered  professional  en- 
gineer in  Massachusetts  and  a  manager  for 
New  England  Power  Service  Co. 


1964 

Secretary: 

Dr.  David  T  Signori,  Jr 

6613  Denny  PI. 

McLean,  VA 

22101 

Robert  Lottero's  company,  Power  Man- 
agement Systems  of  Woodsville,  N.H.,  has 
been  awarded  a  Scientific  Atlanta  franchise 
for  selling  and  installing  its  Hotel-Motel 
Energy  Management  System  in  New 
Hampshire,  Vermont  and  Maine.  Lottero  is 
a  co-founder  of  the  firm,  which  is  con- 
cerned with  the  conservation  and  man- 
agement of  electrical  energy.  Power  Man- 
agement provides  a  consulting  service  in 
the  commercial-industrial  electrical  energy 
market,  with  Lottero  being  primarily  con- 
cerned with  the  consulting  and  engineer- 


ing. Previously,  he  worked  ten  years  as 
assistant  electrical  engineer  for  Public  Ser- 
vice and  two  years  as  an  independent 
consulting  engineer  specializing  in  utility 
work. 


1965 


Donald  Carlson  recently  was  elected  a 
director  of  NSK-Torrington  Co.,  an  18- 
year-old  joint  venture  for  the  manufacture 
of  roller  bearings.  .  .  .  Still  with  W.  R.  Grace 
&  Co.,  Leonard  Feldman  is  now  plant  man- 
ager in  the  Construction  Products  Division 
in  Jacksonville,  Fla.  .  .  .  William  Hopkins 
has  been  elected  a  vice  president  of  Stone 
&  Webster  Management  Consultants,  Inc., 
New  York  City.  He  will  have  project  man- 
agement and  marketing  responsibilities  in 
relation  to  the  company's  consulting  ser- 
vices in  the  rates  and  regulatory  areas. 
Working  at  Stone  &  Webster  since  1967, 
Hopkins  has  been  involved  in  numerous 
assignments  with  gas  and  electric  utilities  in 
the  preparation  and  presentation  of  rate 
cases.  Presently,  his  responsibilities  include 
rates  and  regulatory  studies  with  gas 
utilities  in  three  Canadian  provinces  and 
work  with  DOE.  Earlier,  he  was  with  New 
England  Gas  &  Electric  Co.  in  Mas- 
sachusetts. He  has  studied  business  admin- 
istration at  NYU  Graduate  School  of  Busi- 
ness Administration.  The  Hopkinses  and 
their  children,  Carol  and  Richard,  enjoy 
summering  on  Westport  Island,  Me.,  and 
taking  backpacking  trips  in  the  mountains. 
Continuing  with  IBM,  Michael  Oliver,  is 
now  an  advisory  programmer  and  has 
technical  responsibility  for  one  of  IBM's 
data  entry  systems.  Last  year  he  and  his 
family  spent  six  months  in  the  Netherlands 
on  a  business  assignment.  They  lived  near 
Amsterdam,  and  traveled  throughout 
Europe.  "We  thoroughly  enjoyed  our 
stay."  . . .  Thomas  Pease  has  received  a 
PhD  in  oceanography  from  New  York  Uni- 
versity. . . .  William  Wyman  has  accepted  a 
transfer  to  Cairo,  Ga.  with  the  Torrington 
Co. 


1967 

Secretary 

John  L  Kilguss 

5  Summershade  Circle 

Piscataway,  NJ 

08854 

William  Carboni  recently  became  an  as- 
sociate of  the  Spink  Corporation,  a  leading 
engineering  and  architectural  firm  in  Sac- 
ramento, Calif.  He  and  his  wife  Charlene 
have  an  1 1  -year-old  daughter,  Jennifer — 
Joe  Cieplak  now  works  as  a  proposal  en- 
gineer for  the  Wilson  Instrument  Division 
of  ACCO  Industries  in  Bridgeport,  Conn. 
He  writes  all  proposals  for  custom- 
engineered  hardness  testing  systems.  . . . 
Allen  Ikalainen  has  been  appointed  chief  of 
the  Special  Permit  Development  Section, 
Permits  Branch,  of  the  Enforcement  Divi- 
sion, EPA-Region  1 ,  in  Boston.  Also,  he  was 
elected  to  the  board  of  managers  of  the 
Village  Condominium  Association  in 
Watertown,  Mass.  .  .  .  Currently,  Roy 
Lindquist,  is  a  senior  R&D  engineer  at 
Glitsch,  Inc.  in  Dallas,  Texas.  He  serves  as 
secretary  of  the  Dynamic  Systems  Control 
Division,  ASME.  The  Lindquists  and  their 

two  children  reside  in  Richardson,  Texas 

Jonathan  Worthley  left  the  Air  Force  last 
year  and  is  presently  a  member  of  the 
technical  staff  of  the  MITRE  Corporation  in 
the  Bus  Network  Systems  Department. 


1968 

Secretary 
Charles  A  Griffin 
2901  Municipal  Pier  Rd 
Shreveport,  LA 
71119 

^■Married:  Robert  V.  Gemmer  and  Miss 
Claudia  A.  Bloomfield  in  East  Lyme,  Con- 
necticut on  June  23,  1979.  Mrs.  Gemmer, 
who  holds  a  BS  in  nursing  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Connecticut,  is  employed  by  the  East 
Lyme  Nursing  Association.  The  groom  is  a 
chemist  in  Branford.  He  has  a  doctor's 
degree  from  Stanford  University. 

Michael  Babin  is  now  registered  as  a 
professional  engineer  in  California.  .  . . 
Victor  Calabretta  has  been  named  assistant 
vice  president  at  CE  Maguire,  Inc.,  Provi- 
dence, R.I.  He  serves  as  manager  of 
Maguire's  Civil  and  Marine  Division  and  is 
responsible  for  world-wide  port  and  ocean 
engineering  projects,  as  well  as  those  on 
the  Eastern  Seaboard.  Other  respon- 
sibilities include  dams,  flood  control,  and 
heavy  civil  works.  With  Maguire  since 
1 971 ,  Calabretta  holds  an  MSCE  degree 
from  WPI.  Earlier,  he  was  an  officer  in  the 
Civil  Engineer  Corps,  U.S.  Navy.  He  is  a 
registered  professional  engineer,  and  be- 
longs to  ASCE,  SAME,  and  the  Society  of 
Naval  Architects  and  Marine  Engineers. 
The  Calabrettas  live  in  Jamestown,  R.I.  with 
Christopher,  4,  and  Katherine,  1 . 


32 /The  WPI  journal / Fall  1979 


Kenneth  Crawford  works  for  Pennwalt 
Corp.  in  Belville,  N.J Robert  Demers  has 

a  new  position  as  staff  assistant,  Division  of 
Pulmonary  Medicine,  at  the  University  of 
Massachusetts  Medical  Center  in  Worces- 
ter. He  also  serves  as  an  instructor  in 
medicine  at  the  Medical  School.  .  .  .  Ken- 
neth Gminski  received  his  MBA  from  Rivier 
College,  Nashua,  N.H.,  which  he  attended 
nights  for  four  years.  He  is  still  a  senior 
resident  field  engineer  in  New  Hampshire 
for  Factory  Mutual  Engineering.  .  .  .  David 
Cradwell  continues  with  IBM,  and  is  an 
industry  administrator  in  White  Plains,  N.Y. 
. . .  Walter  Sackmann  holds  the  post  of  fluid 
power  specialist  at  Hydro  Air  of  Conn. ,  Inc. , 
in  North  Haven. 


1969 

Secretary: 
James  P.  Atkinson 
41  Naples  Rd 
Brookline,  MA 
02146 

>Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  David  Zlotek  their 
second  daughter,  Katherine,  in  March.  Pat- 
ricia is  three.  Zlotek  is  president  and  co- 
owner  of  Hampshire  Electronic,  Inc.  in  New 
Hampshire. 

Andrew  DiLeo  works  as  a  structural  en- 
gineer with  Glenn  Consultants  in  Phoenix, 
Arizona. . . .  Joseph  Fitzgerald,  Jr.,  a  regis- 
tered professional  engineer,  is  presently  a 
project  engineer  at  Matrix  Engineering, 
Inc.  He  and  Shirley  are  the  parents  of  Erin 
Elizabeth.  . .  .  John  Poblocki  has  been 
appointed  director  of  economic  develop- 
ment of  the  Blackstone  Valley  Chamber  of 
Commerce,  Pawtucket,  R.I.  Since  last  Sep- 
tember he  has  been  serving  as  industrial 
development  specialist.  Previously,  he  has 
been  director  of  the  Department  of  Plan- 
ning and  Development  for  the  City  of 
Woonsocket.  He  will  also  now  serve  as 
project  manager  for  the  Second  Pawtucket 
Area  Industrial  Development  Foundation, 
Inc. 


1970 

Secretary: 

F.  David  Ploss  III 

208  St.  Nicholas  Ave 

Worcester,  MA 

01606 

^■Married:  Paul  A.  Akscyn  and  Gail  L.  Spies 
on  May  26,  1979.  Mrs.  Akscyn  graduated 
from  the  University  of  Houston.  She  is  a 
legal  assistant  for  Fullbright  and  Jaworski. 
Her  husband  is  a  senior  instrumentation 
engineer  for  Litwin  Corp.,  Houston,  Texas. 
W.  Todd  Akin  has  been  appointed  to  the 
position  of  assistant  superintendent  of 
maintenance  and  construction  at  Laclede 
Steel  Company's  Alton,  III.  steelworks.  He 
joined  the  company  last  year.  Prior  to  that, 
he  was  with  IBM.  .  .  .  Mark  Gemborys 
received  his  PhD  in  chemistry  from 
Dartmouth  College  in  June.  From  1970- 
1972  he  was  a  first  lieutenant  in  the  U.S. 
Army  stationed  at  Fort  Ord,  Calif.  Currently 
he  is  working  in  association  with  Dr.  Gilbert 
Mudge  in  the  department  of  pharmacol- 
ogy at  Dartmouth  Medical  School, 
Hanover,  N.H.  He,  his  wife  Janet  and  chil- 
dren, Nicole,  6,  and  Brian,  4,  reside  in  West 
Lebanon. 


1971 

Secretary 
Vincent  T.  Pace 
4707  Apple  Lane 
WestDeptford,  NJ 
08066 

^■Married:  Ralph  H.  Reddick  to  Meredith 
A.  Cooper  on  May  20, 1 979  in  Kalamazoo, 
Michigan.  Mrs.  Reddick  graduated  from 
Eastman  School  of  Music,  Rochester,  N.Y., 
and  has  completed  one  year  of  graduate 
work.  The  bridegroom  has  a  bachelor's 
degree  in  music  from  the  University  of 
Connecticut,  and  a  master's  degree  from 
Eastman  School  of  Music.  They  have  both 
signed  a  two-year  contract  to  perform  with 
the  Caracas  (Venezuela)  Symphony  or- 
chestra —  the  bride  as  a  cellist  and  the 
groom  as  a  string  bassist. 

>Born:  to  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Douglas  E. 
Holmes  a  son,  Matthew  Douglas.  Having 
received  his  PhD  in  materials  science  and 
engineering  from  MIT,  Holmes  now  works 
at  Hughes  Research  Labs  in  Malibu,  Calif., 
where  he  is  investigating  lll-V  compound 
semiconductors.  ...  to  Paul  and  Nancy 
Wood  Popinchalk,  73,  their  second  son, 
Samuel.  (Seth  is  three).)  Paul  is  with  Val- 
mont  Energy  Systems  working  in  solar  en- 
ergy. Nancy  is  a  "full-time"  mother. 

Daniel  Donahue  has  received  his  mas- 
ter's in  engineering  from  Tufts  University 
School  of  Engineering. . . .  John  Giordano 
has  joined  Hospital  Trust  National  Bank, 
where  he  is  management  science  officer  in 
the  Automated  Information  Department. 


He  is  responsible  for  the  new  management 
science  section,  which  supports  the  bank  in 
quantitative  decision  making.  He  has  an 
MBA  from  the  University  of  Rhode  Island, 
and  previously  was  with  the  Old  Stone 
Bank  in  Providence.  .  .  .  Last  spring  Walter 
Jensen,  Jr.,  was  named  by  the  student 
body  at  Central  New  England  College, 
Worcester,  as  the  1 979  recipient  of  the 
Excellence  in  Teaching  Award.  The  award  is 
based  on  knowledge  of  subject  material, 
presentation  techniques,  practical  applica- 
tion, and  personal  assistance  to  students. 
Jensen  has  taught  courses  in  physics, 
chemistry,  engineering,  and  mathematics 
at  CNEC  for  24  years.  He  is  graduate  of 
McGill  University  and  holds  a  master's 
degree  from  WPI.  A  member  of  the  Math- 
ematics Association  of  America,  he  also 
belongs  to  the  American  Mathematical 
Society  and  the  Mathematics  Association 
of  Two-Year  Colleges  in  Massachusetts. 

R.  Daniel  Jimenez,  who  has  a  PhD  from 
the  University  of  Texas,  continues  with 
ITESM  Physics  Dept,  Sucursal  de  Correos 

"J",  Monterrey,  Mexico Chia-Soon  Ku 

is  a  senior  chemical  engineer  in  the  National 
Bureau  of  Standards,  Washington,  D.C — 
Dana  Worthley  works  for  the  Fram  Corpo- 
ration, East  Providence,  R.I.  in  product  field 
testing. 


1972 

Secretary: 

John  A  Woodward 

101  Putnam  St 

Orange,  MA 

01364 

John  Kaletski  has  been  named  manager  of 
industrial  engineering  at  Clairol's  Stamford 
(Conn.)  manufacturing  facility.  Since  join- 
ing the  firm  in  1972,  he  has  served  as 
supervisor  of  aerosols  and  department 
head  of  sundries  packaging.  Presently,  he  is 
working  for  his  MBA  at  the  University  of 
Bridgeport.  .  .  .  Still  with  Power 
Technologies,  Inc.,  Timothy  Laskowski 
currently  resides  in  Rio  de  Janeiro,  Brazil. . . . 
Ted  Martin  serves  a  technical  service  repre- 
sentative for  MacDermid  of  Waterbury, 
Conn.  .  .  .  David  Meyer  is  certified  and  a 
member  of  the  American  Production  & 
Inventory  Control  Society.  He  is  a  consul- 
tant at  Rath  &  Strong,  Inc.,  Lexington, 
Mass. 

Glenn  Mortoro  received  an  MBA  from 
Bryant  College  in  May.  He  has  an  MSME 
from  the  University  of  Connecticut,  and  is 
employed  as  an  equipment  engineer  by 
Texas  Instruments. . .  .  Richard  Sojka  is  the 
new  manager  of  production  for  the  day 
shift  at  Clairol's  Stamford  (Conn.)  facility 
He  is  responsible  for  production  of  all  of 
Clairol's  products  in  the  Stamford  plant. 
Earlier,  he  was  senior  project  engineer; 
department  head  of  receiving,  warehous- 
ing and  inventory  control;  and  department 
head  of  oxidation  packaging.  He  started 
work  at  Clairol  in  1972. 


Fall  1 979  /  The  WPI  journal     I I 


1973 

Secretary 
lay  I.  Schnitzer 
322  St.  Paul  St 
Apt.  #3 
Brookline,  MA 
02146 

^■Married:  Richard  W.  Graham  and  Lynne 
D.  Grossmith  on  May  12, 1979  in  Foxboro, 
Massachusetts.  The  bride  graduated  from 
Westbrook  College,  and  is  a  secretary  at 
Norwood  Hospital.  The  groom  works  as 
branch  manager  for  Old  Colony  Bank  and 
Trust  Co.,  Medfield,  Mass. 

>Bom:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Roger  Lavallee 
their  first  child,  Michelle  Marie,  last  Sep- 
tember. Presently,  Roger  is  an  actuarial 
studies  specialist  in  the  Life  Division  of 
Aetna  Life  and  Casualty  in  Hartford,  Conn. 
His  duties  include  competitive  studies, 
monitoring  insurance  replacement  activity, 
new  product  development,  and  analysis  of 
state  and  federal  life  insurance  regulations 
and  their  effects  on  company  business. 

Joyce  Caplovich  is  employed  as  a  consul- 
tant with  Comptech,  Computer  &  Man- 
agement Services,  East  Hartford,  Conn. . . . 
Philip  Mazzola  is  a  process  engineer  at  du 
Pont,  Chambers  Works-elastomers,  in 
Deepwater,  N.J.  He  is  a  professional  en- 
gineer in  Delaware.  He  and  his  wife  May 
live  in  Wilmington. . . .  Paul  Parulis,  a  senior 
operations  engineer  at  General 
Dynamics-Electric  Boat,  has  been  elected 
to  the  Water  and  Sewer  Commission  in 
Waterford,  Conn.  ...  Dr.  Thomas 
Szymanski  is  working  for  Exxon's  Research 
and  Development  Laboratory  in  Baton 
Rouge,  La.,  where  he  is  concerned  with 
basic  fuels  research.  He  holds  an  MS  and 
PhD  in  inorganic  chemistry  from  North- 
western University,  Evanston,  III. .  .  .  Steve 
Turo  serves  as  a  process  development  en- 
gineer at  Fiber  Industries  in  Greenville,  S.C. 


1974 

Secretary 
James  F.  Rubino 
18  Landings  Way 
Avon  Lake,  OH 
44012 

^Married:  Jeffrey  C.  Lindberg  and  Kath- 
leen M.  Loughrey  in  Holyoke,  Mas- 
sachusetts on  May  12, 1979.  Mrs. 
Lindberg,  a  registered  nurse,  graduated 
from  St.  Vincent  Hospital  School  of  Nursing 
and  Worcester  State  College.  Her  husband 
has  an  MSME  from  WPI,  and  is  with  Norton 
Co.,  Worcester. 


>Born:  to  Lt.  and  Mrs.  James  Asaro  a 
son,  James  Michael,  Jr.  last  November. 
Asaro,  who  was  recently  promoted  to 
lieutenant  in  the  Navy,  has  been  desig- 
nated a  patrol  plane  commander  in  the  P3C 
aircraft.  This  October  he  is  being  trans- 
ferred to  NAS,  Milton,  Fla.  to  become  a 
flight  instructor  in  the  Naval  Training 
Command.  ...  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Gordon 
Woodfall  a  son,  Justin,  on  November  2, 
1978.  Woodfall  is  a  production  control 
manager  at  Texas  Instruments  in  Attleboro, 
Mass. 

Jonathan  Barnett  is  with  Firepro,  Inc., 
Wellesley  Hills,  Mass. . . .  James  Carr,  Jr. 
continues  as  a  partner  in  H.  Carr  &  Sons, 
Inc.,  Providence,  R.I.,  a  $6  million  a  year, 
diversified  wall  and  ceiling  firm.  .  .  .  John 
Fellows  serves  as  a  senior  product  engineer 
at  Peabody  Process  Systems  in  Stamford, 
Conn. . . .  Currently,  David  Gerth  works  for 
Arthur  Andersen  &  Co.  as  a  management 
consultant  in  the  Administrative  Services 
Division.  He  has  an  MBA  from  Amos  Tuck 
School  at  Dartmouth  College. 

Richard  Ludorf  continues  as  an  engineer 
associate  at  Duke  Power  Co.,  Charlotte, 
N.C.  . . .  David  Teixeira  is  assistant  project 
engineer  at  Gilbane  Building  Co.,  Provi- 
dence, R.I. . . .  Stephen Thibodeau  recently 
graduated  from  the  University  of 
Washington  in  Seattle  with  a  PhD  degree  in 
biochemistry.  He  will  pursue  post- 
doctorate  studies  in  research  at  the  Mayo 
Clinic  in  Rochester,  Minn.  .  . .  Robert 
Trotter  started  as  the  PROCO  injector  de- 
sign engineer  in  engine  engineering  at  the 
Ford  Motor  Company  in  Michigan  last 
February.  He  had  been  a  senior  engineer  at 
American  Bosch  Division  of  AMBAC  Indus- 
tries in  Springfield,  Mass.  His  wife  Robin  is 
the  confidential  secretary  to  the  president 
at  Anchor  Motor  Freight. 


1975 

Secretary 

James  D  Aceto,  Jr. 
70Sunnyview  Dr. 
Vernon,  CT 
06066 

^Married:  1/Lt.  Paul  Bianchet  and  Patricia 
M.  Burns  on  May  5,  1979  at  Pittsburgh 
(N.Y.)  Air  Force  Base.  Mrs.  Bianchet 
graduated  from  Our  Lady  of  Victory  Secre- 
tarial School,  Plattsburgh,  and  is  a  civilian 
secretary  at  Plattsburgh  AFB.  The  groom  is 
assigned  to  the  380th  Civil  Engineering 
Squadron  at  the  base.  .  . .  Joseph  T. 
DelPonte  to  Judy  McKinney  on  January  27, 
1979.  The  bridgegroom  is  a  physicist- 
engineer  at  Boeing  Wichita  Co.  in  Kansas. 


. . .  Samuel  J.  Hutchinson  and  Miss  Mayling 
Ju  on  June  2, 1979  in  Marlboro,  Mas- 
sachusetts. The  bride  is  a  senior  at  Fra- 
mingharp  State  and  attended  Emmanuel 
College  and  Boston  State  College.  She  is  a 
senior  computer  operator  for  the  software 
development  group  at  Digital  Equipment 
Corp.  in  Marlboro.  Her  husband,  who  at- 
tended Bentley  College,  is  in  the  commod- 
ity resource  accounting  administration  for 
the  corporate  data  centers  of  Digital  in 
Maynard. 

>Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Michael  J. 
Dudas,  a  son,  Michael  John  Dudas,  Jr.,  on 
Junel,  1979. 

Michael  Aspinwall  is  planning  manager 
at  FMC  Corp.,  Philadelphia.  He  has  an 
MBA  from  the  University  of  Chicago.  . . . 
Bruce  Chamberlin  has  transferred  from  the 
Photo  Products  Department  to  the  Textile 
Fibers  Department  as  an  R&D  engineer  at 
du  Pont  in  Wilmington,  Delaware.  He  and 
his  wife  Susan  reside  in  Seaford.  .  .  .  Bruce 
Croft  was  awarded  a  doctor  of  podiatric 
medicine  in  May  at  the  Illinois  College  of 
Podiatric  Medicine  in  Chicago.  He  was  also 
awarded  a  Class  of  1979  Service  Award, 
and  is  a  member  of  Kappa  Tau  Epsilon. 
Presently,  he  is  in  a  podiatric  residency 
program  at  Hines  Veterans  Administration 
Hospital,  Hines,  Illinois. 

William  Cunningham  has  joined  the 
Electronics  Corporation  of  America,  Cam- 
bridge, as  the  manager  of  systems  applica- 
tion engineering.  The  firm  manufactures 
burner  management  systems  which 
monitor  and  control  steam  generators  for 
utilities  and  industries.  Formerly,  Cunning- 
ham was  a  project  engineer  with  Foster 
Wheeler  Energy  Corporation  in  Livingston, 
N.J.  He  holds  an  MS  from  WPI,  an  MBA 
from  Western  New  England  College,  a  BS 
from  Northeastern  and  an  associate  degree 
from  Worcester  Junior  College.  . . .  Re- 
cently, Dr.  Francis  Kiernan  received  his 
degree  in  medicine  from  the  University  of 
Connecticut.  He  is  now  in  a  residency 
program  in  internal  medicine  at  Hartford 
(Conn.)  Hospital.  .  .  .  Richard  Mariano 
serves  as  process  analyst  at  Gillette  in  An- 
dover,  Mass. 

Donald  Taddia  is  a  senior  staff  engineer 
in  the  Allegheny  County  Department  of 
Aviation  at  the  Greater  Pittsburgh  (Pa.) 
International  Airport.  He  is  a  registered 
land  surveyor  in  Pennsylvania.  .  .  .  Paul 
Varadian  has  left  the  corporate  staff  of 
Texas  Instruments,  Inc.  to  form  Landmark 
Properties,  a  real  estate  brokerage  and 
development  firm  operating  out  of  New- 
ton, Mass.  The  firm  is  actively  engaged  in 
the  brokerage  of  commercial,  industrial, 
and  investment  property;  selling  and  trad- 
ing of  existing  businesses;  and  the  reloca- 
tion and  expansion  of  major  corporations. 
Recently,  Landmark  Properties  has  entered 
the  development  field,  specifically  in  the 
rehabilitation  of  older  structures  through- 
out New  England  into  residential  and 
commercial  usage.  . .  .  Stephen  Werner  is 
employed  as  senior  engineer  at  Boeing 
Wichita  in  Wichita,  Kansas. 


34  /The  WPI  Journal  /Fall  1979 


1976 

Secretary: 

Paula  E  Stratouly 

318  Thornberry  Court 

Pittsburgh,  PA 

15237 

^■Married:  Gary  Chabot  and  Cathy  L. 

Honeycutton  June  2,  1979  in  George, 

Utah.  The  bride,  a  student  at  Del  Mar 
Junior  College,  is  employed  at  Revett  Air 
Conditioning.  The  groom  is  with  Corpus 
Christi  Petro  Chemical  in  Texas.  .  .  .  Earl  T. 
Chapman  and  Marie  R.  Prizzi  in  New  York 
on  May  19,  1979.  Mrs.  Chapman  holds 
degrees  from  Alfred  University  and 
Nazareth  College,  and  is  employed  by  the 
East  Rochester  School  District.  Her  hus- 
band is  at  Eastman  Kodak.  .  .  .  Walter  X. 
ZukasandPaulaJ.  BelaironJune30, 1979 
in  Worcester.  Mrs.  Zukas,  a  software  en- 
gineer at  Sander's  Associates,  Nashua, 
N.H.,  is  also  a  graduate  student  at  the 
University  of  Lowell.  Her  husband  is  in  the 
graduate  program  at  the  University  of 
Massachusetts,  Amherst. 

Robert  Barnes,  Jr.  is  a  research  engineer 
at  American  Cyanamid  in  Stamford,  Conn. 

.  .  Stephen  and  Noreen  Pirog  Borys  are 
both  employed  by  Exxon  in  Houston, 
Texas.  Stephen  holds  the  post  of  senior 
technical  analyst  at  Exxon  Co.  USA,  and 
Noreen  serves  as  a  design  engineer  for 
Exxon  Pipeline  Co.  .  .  .  Jeffrey  Burek  cur- 
rently works  for  GE  in  Lynn,  Mass.  He  and 
his  wife  Mary  Ann  (McDonald)  Burek, 

Becker,  75,  reside  in  Maynard Randall 

Emerson  works  as  a  technical  representa- 
tive at  Kemper  Insurance  Co.,  North 
Quincy,  Mass.  .  .  .  Walter  Grandfield  con- 
tinues with  Motorola  in  Plantation,  Fla.  .  .  . 
Jeff  Gravdahl  is  a  sales  representative  at  A. 
MOE  &  Co.,  Inc.,  Philadelphia,  Pa. . . .  Ross 
Greenberg  has  been  accepted  at  medical 
school  and  will  be  attending  the  State 
University  of  New  York  at  Buffalo. 

John  Highman  now  works  for  Analogies, 
Inc.,  Wakefield,  Mass.  as  an  assembly  lan- 
guage programmer.  .  .  .  Continuing  with 
Kodak,  Paul  Jacques  is  presently  assigned 
as  a  project  engineer  in  the  machine  design 
development  group.  .  .  .  Since  April,  John 
Maxouris  has  been  concerned  with  sys- 
tems at  United  Jersey  Bank.  He  also 
coaches  and  plays  with  the  New  York 
Astros,  a  semi-pro  soccer  team  in  New 

York Phil  McNamara,  still  with  Electric 

Boat-General  Dynamics,  continues  as  a  nu- 
clear shift  test  engineer. . . .  James  Russo  is 
a  project  manager  at  Charles  Jewett  Corp., 
Glastonbury,  Conn. 


1977 

Secretary 

Kathleen  Molony 

Apt   #1 

29  Seavlew  Ave 

Norwalk.  CT 

06855 

^■Married:  Allen  F.  Apel  to  Miss  Jayne  F. 
Lewis  in  Beacon,  New  York  recently.  Mrs. 
Apel  graduated  from  Clarkson  College  of 
Technology  and  is  a  programmer-analyst 
at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft,  East  Hartford, 
Conn.,  where  her  husband  is  also  a 
programmer-analyst.  .  .  .  David  R.  Bolin 
and  Miss  Jill  E.  Holmanon  June  16, 1979  in 
Hopkinton,  Massachusetts.  The  bride 
graduated  from  Becker  and  Bentley  Col- 
lege. Her  husband  is  studying  for  his 
doctorate  in  chemistry  at  MIT.  .  .  .  Gerard 
M.  Chase  to  Cynthia  M.  Hastings  in  Suf- 
field,  Connecticut  on  May  5,  1979.  Mrs. 
Chase  is  a  graduate  of  Hartford  State  Tech- 
nical College  She  is  employed  by  United 
Illuminating  Co.,  New  Haven,  as  a  technical 
assistant  in  the  ME  department.  The  bride- 
groom, also  employed  by  United  Illuminat- 
ing (Bridgeport),  is  a  results  laboratory 
supervisor.  .  .  .  Joseph  J.  Kilarand  Nancy  I. 
Schattner  recently  in  Peabody,  Mas- 
sachusetts. The  bride  is  a  Becker  graduate 
and  is  employed  as  a  medical  assistant  in 
Salem.  Her  husband  works  forTurner  Con- 
struction Co.,  Boston. .    .  Mark  W.  Popham 
and  Miss  Brenda  L.  MacEwen  on  May  12, 
1979  in  Athol,  Massachusetts.  Mrs. 
Popham  graduated  from  Athol  High  School 
and  is  in  the  sales  department  at  L.  S. 
Starrett  Co.  The  groom  is  an  environmental 
engineer  for  Cullinan  Engineering  of  Au- 
burn 

Chris  Cocaine  now  works  as  a  mechan- 
ical consulting  engineer  in  the  Machinery 

Division  of  USM  Corp.  in  Beverly,  Mass 

Charles  Dreyfus  III  is  studying  for  his  mas- 
ter's and  doctorate  degrees  in  the  mathe- 
matics department  at  the  University  of 
Colorado  at  Boulder,  where  he  also 
teaches.  .  .  .  George  Harding  serves  as  an 
environmental  engineer  with  the  EPA  in 
Region  I,  Boston,  and  attends  Suffolk  Law 

School  at  night In  May,  Thomas  Killeen 

was  promoted  from  assistant  property  con- 
sultant to  property  consultant  at  Employers 
Insurance  of  Wausau.  .  .  .  Jim  Leary,  a 
transportation  planner  in  Worcester,  has 
created  Worcester's  first  comic  strip, 
"Common  People,"  which  appears  in 
Worcester  Magazine.  .  .  .  Gary  Loeb  serves 
as  assistant  to  the  superintendent  of  Niag- 
ara Mohawk's  Albany  steam  plant.  He  is  a 
senior  deacon  of  Washington  Lodge  (Ma- 
sons) in  Albany  .  .    Joan  Lyshak  Roy  has 
been  named  systems  analyst  in  the  data 
processing  group  of  Bay  State  Abrasives, 
Westboro,  Mass.  Previously,  she  was  a 
programmer-analyst  at  the  American 
Mathematical  Society  in  Providence, 
Rl         Scott  Saftler  holds  the  post  of 
technical  representative  in  the  Cambridge, 


Mass.  office  of  National  CSS.  He  writes, 
"Some  of  my  customers  include  old  class- 
mates at  WPI  (Amy  Schneider),  and  a 
former  professor  in  the  computer  science 
department,  Dennis  Barlow." 


1978 

Secretary; 
Cynthia  Grynick 
303  Wolcott  St 
Waterbury,  CT 
06705 

^-Married:  Constance  M.  Cunningham 

and  Brian  M.  Grenda  on  July  7,  1979.  Mrs. 
Grenda,  who  is  at  the  University  of  Lowell, 
is  employed  by  Raytheon  Co.  Her  husband 
graduated  from  Lowell  Technological  Insti- 
tute and  is  a  senior  industrial  engineer  at 

Raytheon  in  Andover Ronald  E.  Fish 

and  Miss  MarcyB.  EldenonJune3, 1979in 
Swampscott,  Massachusetts.  The  bride  has 
a  BA  in  social  work  from  Fairleigh  Dickinson 
University,  Teaneck,  N.J.  Formerly  with 
Metritape,  Inc.,  Concord,  Mass.,  the  bride- 
groom is  now  an  engineer  with  Boeing  Co. 
located  at  Edwards  Air  Force  Base  in 
California. . . .  David  T.  Hawley  and  Martha 
A.  Gross  in  Thomaston,  Maine  on  May  26, 
1979.  Mrs.  Hawley  graduated  from  the 
University  of  Southern  Maine.  Her  hus- 
band serves  as  vice  president  of  Howard 
Products  in  Worcester. 

Robert  P.  Lavieri  II  and  Miss  Kathleen  M. 
Grant  in  Worcester  on  June  9,  1979  The 
bride  is  a  student  at  Boston  University.  The 
groom  is  manufacturing  manager  for  Proc- 
ter &  Gamble  in  Quincy,  Mass Steven 

R.  Mickool  to  Lauren  M.  Heath  on  May  26, 
1979  in  Manchester,  Connecticut.  Mrs. 
Mickool  graduated  from  Manchester  High 
School  and  is  an  engineering  secretary.  Her 
husband  works  for  Pratt  &  Whitney  in 
Connecticut.  .      Robert  H.  Warburton,  Jr. 
and  Kathleen  A.  Fitzgerald,  79  on  June  30, 
1 979  in  West  Springfield,  Mass.  The  groom 
is  with  Babcock  and  Wilcox  in  Denver, 
Colorado. 

William  Christian  serves  in  the  Peace 
Corps  and  is  with  the  Water  Development 
Department  in  Kahamega,  Kenya.  His  wife, 
Susan,  teaches  in  Kahamega  General  Hos- 
pital.      Henry  Daley  is  a  teaching  assistant 
at  the  University  of  Arizona  in  Tucson.  . 
Buffalo  Forge  Co.,  Pumps  Division,  of 
North  Tonawanda,  NY.,  has  employed 
Richard  Egerton  as  a  project  engineer.  .  .  . 
David  Fisher  has  joined  The  Trane  Com- 
pany's Commercial  Air  Conditioning  Divi- 
sion at  the  Roanoke,  Va.  sales  office.  He 
recently  completed  the  six-month  Trane 
Graduate  Engineer  Training  Program, 
which  concentrates  on  specialized  heat 
transfer  theory  and  practice  as  well  as 
in-depth  coverage  of  company  products. 
Trane  is  a  leading  manufacturer  of  air  con- 
ditioning, refrigeration,  and  heat  transfer 
equipment  for  commercial,  residential,  in- 
dustrial, transport  and  special  process  ap- 
plications and  has  facilities  worldwide. 

Full  1979 /The  WPI  Journal/  3.5 


James  Fowler  is  an  engineer-in-training  at 
Naval  Sea  Systems  Command  in  the  De- 
partment of  the  Navy,  Washington,  DC. 

Peter  Hayden  spoke  on  leadership  and 
service  at  the  Athol  (Mass.)  High  School 
annual  Honor  Society  banquet  in  May.  He 
was  president  of  the  local  chapter  in 
1973-74.  .      Erik  Hedberg  is  studying  for 
his  MS  in  science  at  the  University  of 
Miami.  .  .  .  Sandra  Hoyle  has  joined  Digital 
Equipment  Corp.,  Tewksbury,  Mass.  as  a 
product  support  engineer.  .  .  .  Amy  Hunter 
is  an  associate  financial  analyst  in  field 
engineering  at  Data  General  Corp.  in 
Westboro,  Mass.  .  .  .  Kenneth  King  has 
been  promoted  to  assistant  engineer  in  the 
Western  Division  at  the  Public  Service 
Company  of  New  Hampshire  in  Keene. 
Formerly,  he  was  an  assistant  engineer  in 
the  general  engineering  office.  The  Kings 
have  one  daughter,  and  have  moved  to 
Keene  from  Manchester.    .  .  W.  Charles 
McCovern  works  as  an  electrical  engineer 
at  Raytheon  Co.  in  Sudbury,  Mass. . . .  John 
Melillo,  Jr.  is  also  at  Raytheon  in  Sudbury 
.  .  .  John  Moulton  is  with  Robert  Bosch, 
Bamberg,  West  Germany. 

Wayne  Noss  is  on  the  research  staff  at 
MIT.  .  .  .  Sergej  Ochrimenko  is  employed 
by  Spencer  White  &  Prentis,  Hackensack, 
N.J.  .  .  .  Richard  Ruscito  serves  as  a  chemi- 
cal engineer  at  the  U.S.  Naval  Ordnance 
Station  in  Indian  Head,  Maryland.  .  .  .  John 
Zimmer  received  a  letter  of  commendation 
from  the  general  manager  of  Westing- 
house'  Bettis  Atomic  Power  Laboratory  re- 
garding his  outstanding  efforts  during  the 
Three  Mile  Island  incident.  The  letter 
stated:  "This  was  a  very  difficult  and  crucial 
period  and  the  outstanding  efforts  of 
people  like  you  help  Westinghouse  and  the 
Bettis  Atomic  Power  Laboratory  maintain 
their  fine  reputation  in  the  nuclear  indus- 
try." A  commendation  letter  was  also  sent 
to  Bettis  by  Admiral  H.  G.  Rickover  of  the 
Department  of  Energy  who  said,  "It  was  an 
outstanding  job."  John  is  with  the  reactor 
servicing  A4W  project,  West  Mifflin,  Pa. 
During  the  Three  Mile  Island  incident  he 
was  on  the  Task  Force  which  drained 
flammable  gases  back  into  the  contain- 
ment building  and  separated  them  for  dis- 
charge and  decontamination. 


1979 


^■Married:  John  A.  Auger  and  Sarah  Bow- 
den  on  July  1 , 1 979  in  Worcester.  The  bride 
is  a  Becker  graduate.  The  groom  is  with 
Parker-Hannifin  in  Ravenna,  Ohio.  .  .  . 
Philip  J.  Cameron  III  and  Miss  Robin  A. 
Masciadrelli  on  June  9,  1979  in  Westfield, 
Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Cameron  graduated 
from  Becker.  Her  husband  has  joined 
Clairol  in  Stamford,  Conn. . . .  Miss  Diane  E. 
Curren  to  the  Rev.  David  Bird  in  Connect- 
icut on  June  9, 1 979.  The  groom  graduated 
from  St.  David's  College,  Wales,  and  Gen- 
eral Theological  Seminary,  New  York  City. 
. . .  Jeffrey  S.  Duhaime  and  Miss  Amy  E. 
Somers  in  Waterbury,  Connecticut  on  June 
30,  1979.  The  bride  goes  to  Fairfield  Uni- 
versity. Her  husband  is  a  test  engineer  at 
Sikorsky  Aircraft  in  Stratford,  Conn.  . . . 
Thomas  N.  Falls  and  Nancy  J.  Disbrow  in 
Milford,  Connecticut  on  June  9, 1979.  Mrs. 
Falls  holds  an  AS  degree  in  informational 
systems  from  Quinnipiac  College.  The 
bridegroom  is  design  engineer  at 
Kimberly-Clark,  Neenah,  Wise. . . .  Michael 
G.  Gallerani  to  Miss  Sharon  Goodwin  in 
Connecticut  on  June  16,  1979.  The  bride 
graduated  from  Barrington  College  in 
Rhode  Island  and  has,  until  recently,  been 
employed  as  associate  in  admissions  at  the 
college.  Her  husband  is  in  manufacturing 
management  at  General  Electric  in  Oberlin, 
Ohio.  . .  .  Lawrence  C.  Hughes,  Jr.  and 
Ginnie  L.  Young  on  April  21,  1979  in 
Webster,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Hughes 
graduated  from  Bartlett  High  School.  Her 
husband  is  a  laboratory  research  technician 
for  United  Technologies  Research  Center, 
East  Hartford,  Conn.  . .  .  Philip  H.  Turek 
and  Susan  M.  Easley  in  Manchester,  Con- 
necticut on  June  16, 1979.  Mrs.  Turek  is  a 
Becker  graduate.  The  groom  works  for 
Parker-Hannifin  in  Ohio. 

John  Arnold  presently  acts  as  a  consul- 
tant at  Interactive  Systems,  Inc.  in  Boston. 
He  is  a  trustee  of  the  Westborough  Public 
Library. . . .  David  Bachiochi  holds  the  post 
of  scientific  programmer  with  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft  Group  in  Hartford,  Conn. 
. . .  David  Bergeron  is  with  Leominster 
(Mass.)  Tool  Co.,  Inc. . . .  Francis  Biagiarelli 
is  employed  by  the  Petroleum  Services 
Group  of  Dresser  Industries,  Inc.,  Houston, 
Texas.  . .  .  Presently,  Paul  Blackmer  works 
as  a  manufacturing  management  trainee  at 

GE Joan  Bolduc  has  been  employed  by 

Procter  &  Gamble  at  the  Winton  Hill  Tech- 
nical Center  in  Cincinnati,  Ohio.  .  .  .  Keith 
Bonn  works  as  a  design  engineer  in  the 
Commercial  Products  Division  at  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft.  .  . .  Allen  Buchinski 
serves  as  a  research  assistant  in  the  ME 
department  at  WPI. .  . .  Paul  Burgarella  is 
with  Sprague  Electric  in  Worcester.  . .  . 
Stephen  Capoto  has  joined  GE  as  a  sales 
engineer. . . .  Joseph  Carbone  is  a  senior 
design  engineer  at  Teradyne  in  Boston. 


Joseph  Carrolo  has  joined  Hewlett- 
Packard,  Lexington,  Mass.,  as  a  staff  en- 
gineer. He  belongs  to  the  Unity  Athletic 
Club. . . .  Currently,  Wallace  Catanach  III  is 
an  experimental  engineer  at  Warner  & 
Swasey  in  Worcester.  . .  .  Karen  Chesney 
holds  the  post  of  operations  supervisor  at 
AT  &  T  Long  Lines,  Freehold,  N.J.  .  . .  C. 
James  Cook  is  a  software  engineer  at  Prime 
Computer,  Inc.,  Newton,  Mass.  . . .  Albert 
Cormier  serves  as  a  technical  representa- 
tive for  Kemper  Insurance  in  North  Quincy, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Charles  Cox  is  in  research  and 
engineering  at  Eastman  Kodak.  .  .  .  Philip 
Cullin,  Jr.  has  been  employed  by  the 
Portsmouth  (N.H.)  Naval  Shipyard  as  an 
electrical  engineer.  .  .  .  Kevin  Doherty  and 
John  Fitzgerald  are  management  trainees 
at  P.  J.  Stella,  Wakefield,  Mass. . . .  Judith 
Dorkin  works  as  a  staff  assistant  in  network 
distribution  at  the  Southern  New  England 
Telephone  Co.  in  Hamden,  Conn.  .  . . 
Sandra  Dorr  was  recently  named  as  assist- 
ant programmer  for  IBM  at  Middletown 
Navy  Base  in  Rhode  Island.  . .  .  Steven 
Drawe  has  been  employed  as  a  chemical 

process  engineer  at  Eastman  Kodak  Co 

M.  Beth  Driscoll  holds  the  post  of  opera- 
tions supervisor  in  the  management  devel- 
opment program  at  AT&T  Long  Lines  in 

Springfield,  Mass Mary  Dunn  has  been 

employed  by  Digital  Equipment  Co.,  Col- 
orado Springs,  Colorado. 

LFE  Corporation,  Waltham,  Mass.  has 
tapped  William  Englemann  as  a  project 
engineer. . . .  Mary  Farren  serves  as  a  junior 
engineer  at  IBM  in  Poughkeepsie,  N.Y. . . . 
David  Ford  works  for  Bernard  Johnson, 
Inc.,  in  Washington,  D.C. . . .  Louis  Fras- 
cotti  is  a  technical  representative  at  Kemper 
Insurance  Co.,  North  Quincy,  Mass.  .  . . 
Arthur  Girard  is  a  neighborhood  coor- 
dinator for  the  Memorial  Square  Citizens 
Council  in  Springfield,  Mass.  . .  .  Kevin 
Grealish  works  as  a  structural  engineer  at 
Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft,  East  Hartford, 
Conn. . . .  Donald  Griglack  is  now  a  process 
engineer  at  American  Cyanamid's  Fortier 
Plant  in  Westwego,  La.  .  .  .  Daniel 
Grossman  works  for  Cambridge  Telecom- 
munications, Inc.,  Burlington,  Mass.  Heisa 
systems  engineer  in  the  software  group — 
Kirk  Gustafson  serves  as  a  power  plant 

analyst  at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft The 

Trane  Co.,  Lacrosse,  Wise,  has  employed 

Robert  Hart Suzanne  Hess  is  a  technical 

sales  representative  with  Exxon  of  Hous- 
ton, Texas Robert  Howe  holds  the  post 

of  design  engineerat  Hamilton  Standard  in 
Windsor  Locks,  Conn. 


36 /The  WPI  journal /  Fall  1979 


John  Jacobson  is  with  GE  in  Lynn,  Mass. 
.  .  .  Paul  Keary  is  employed  as  a  field 
engineer  at  Shell  Oil  Company  in  Houston. 
.  .  .  Currently,  Paul  Keenan  is  with  GE. 
Previously,  he  had  been  a  self-employed 
house  painting  contractor.  .  .  .  James  Kel- 
leher  is  with  IBM,  Newport,  R.I.  . .  .  Daniel 
Kennefick  serves  as  a  project  engineer  at 
du  Pont's  Louisville  (Ky.)  Works.  .  .  .  Andre 
Labrecque  works  as  a  production  planner 
at  Armstrong  Cork  in  Lancaster,  Pa. .  .  . 
American  Hospital  Supply  Corp.,  Miami, 
Fla.,  has  hired  Terry  Langevin  as  an  as- 
sociate engineer  in  the  Dade  Division.  . . . 
Stephen  Laskowski  has  been  named  an 
estimator  at  Westcott  Construction  Co.  in 
North  Attleboro,  Mass.  .  .  .  David  Mangini 
is  employed  as  a  staff  engineer  in  Network 
Operations  at  Southern  New  England 
Telephone  Co.  in  New  Haven,  Conn.  . .  . 
Larry  Marino  is  with  AT&T  in  Worcester. 
.  .  .  Alfred  Marotta  holds  the  position  of 
electronic  engineer  at  Griffiss  AFB  in  Rome, 
NY.  . .  .  Christopher  Mather  has  been 
appointed  staff  engineer  at  Hewlett- 
Packard  Company  in  Syracuse,  N.Y.  . . . 
Mark  McCabe  works  as  a  project  superin- 
tendent at  Ernest  Guigli  and  Sons,  Inc., 
Wellesley,  Mass.  . . .  Michael  McDonald  is 
an  engineering  field  representative  in  In- 
dustrial Risk  Insurers  in  Hartford,  Conn. . . . 
Paul  McKeown  serves  as  an  associate  en- 
gineer at  Westinghouse  Bettis  Atomic 

Power  Lab.,  West  Mifflin,  Pa John 

Meader  has  been  employed  by  Dewberry, 
Nealon  &  Davis  in  Vienna,  Va.  .  . .  James 
Michaud  holds  the  post  of  technical  repre- 
sentative in  the  HPR  Department  at 

KemperGroup  in  Syracuse,  N.Y Jeffery 

Mills  is  a  graduate  student  in  the  ME 
Department  at  Duke  University,  Durham, 
N.C. 

Carl  Nyerick  works  as  an  associate  en- 
gineer at  Westinghouse  Bettis  Atomic 
Power  Laboratory  in  West  Mifflin,  Pa.  . .  . 
David  Ofcarcik  has  been  named  a  field 
engineer  at  GE  in  Wellesley,  Mass.  .  . . 
Bharvi  Parikh  is  employed  in  the  QYX 
Division  of  Exxon  in  Lionville,  Pa.  .  .  .  Keith 
Payea  has  joined  Paratronics,  Inc.,  San 
Jose,  Calif —  Richard  Perry  is  an  industrial 
engineer  with  the  Torrington  Co.  in  Con- 
necticut. .  . .  Michael  Poirier  teaches  in  the 

Peace  Corps  in  Kenya Daniel  Pouliot  is 

a  management  trainee  at  New  England 
Telephone,  Framingham,  Mass.  . . . 
Michael  Rafa  has  accepted  a  position  with 
Westinghouse  in  conjunction  with  the 
company's  graduate  placement  program. 
. . .  Robert  Reed  is  in  engineering  and 
production  management  in  the  central  di- 
vision of  U.S.  Steel  in  Gary,  Indiana.  .  . . 
Gordon  Reynolds,  Jr.  has  joined  KVB,  an  air 
pollution  consulting  firm  in  Hartsdale,  N.Y. 
He  is  a  consulting  engineer.  .  .  .  Laurent 
Rheault  works  as  a  field  service  engineer  at 
Babcock  &  Wilcox  Co.,  New  York  City 


Tom  Rockwood  holds  the  post  of  team 
manager  at  Procter  &  Gamble  Paper  Prod- 
ucts Co.,  Mehoopany,  Pa.  .  .  .  Phillip  Roux 
is  with  QYX,  a  Division  of  Exxon  Enterprises 
in  Lionville,  Pa. . . .  Kenneth  Roy  has  joined 
Honeywell's  Marketing  Operation  in  Bil- 
lerica,  Mass.,  where  he  is  a  minicomputer 
analyst.  In  his  new  post  he  analyzes  techni- 
cal product  information  and  provides  sales 
support  to  the  marketing  operation.  Roy 
has  an  MSCS  from  WPI.  .  .  .  Currently, 
Philip  Rubin  is  a  research  assistant  at  WPI. 
.  .  .  Stephen  Rusckowski  is  in  production 
management  at  Procter  &  Gamble, 
Quincy,  Mass. 

Ensign  Robert  Sachuf,  USN,  is  assistant 
public  works  officer  in  charge  of  construc- 
tion at  the  Naval  Communication  Station  in 
Stockton,  Calif.  He  belongs  to  the  Ameri- 
can Nuclear  Society,  the  National  Society  of 
Professional  Engineers,  Society  of  Ameri- 
can Military  Engineers,  and  ASME.  . . . 
Sanford  Selman  has  been  appointed  an 
associate  engineer  at  Potomac  Electric 
Power  Co.,  Washington,  DC.  .  .  .  Peter 
Simonson  has  accepted  a  position  with 
Sanders  Associates,  Inc.,  Nashua,  N.H.  .  . . 
Pratt  &  Whitney  of  West  Palm  Beach,  Fla. 
has  employed  Joseph  Spinn  as  an  analytic 
engineer  in  the  Government  Products  Divi- 
sion. .  . .  Jeffrey  Stickles  is  currently  a 
manufacturing  management  trainee  at  GE 
in  Erie,  Pa. . . .  Beth  Stone  holds  a  post 
concerned  with  optics  at  IBM  Corp.  in 
East  Fishkill,  N.Y. . . .  David  Szkutak 
serves  as  a  process  supervisor  at  Procter  & 
Gamble  Mfg.  Co.,  St.  Bernard,  Ohio.  . . . 
George  Tompsett  III  is  with  Hamilton  Stan- 
dard in  Windsor  Locks,  Conn.,  where  he  is 

an  associate  engineer  in  manufacturing 

Susan  Turner  is  presently  at  Cornell  Univer- 
sity working  for  her  MS  in  geotechnical 
engineering. . . .  Frank  Urbanski  works  as  a 
process  engineer  at  Stauffer  Chemical  Co., 
Delaware  City,  Del. .  .  .  Harold  Watts,  Jr.  is 
a  design  engineer  at  Harris  Corp. ,  Westerly, 
R.I. . .    John  Willemain  was  recently 
employed  as  a  mathematics  teacher  at 
South  Hadley  (Mass.)  High  School. 


Natural 

Science 

Program 


Dr.  Jerry  Jasinsky,  '68,  assistant  professor 
of  chemistry  at  Keene  (N.H.)  State  College, 
presented  a  program  on  energy  and  envi- 
ronment at  the  Masonic  Lodge  in  Windsor, 
Vt.  in  May.  He  received  his  BA  and  MST 
from  the  University  of  New  Hampshire, 
and  his  PhD  in  chemistry  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Wyoming.  He  belongs  to  the  Ameri- 
can Chemical  Society,  Sigma  Xi,  and  the 
American  Association  for  the  Advance- 
ment of  Science. 

Larry  George  '78,  has  been  appointed  prin- 
cipal of  the  Henniker  (N.H.)  Schools.  There 
were  80  candidates  for  the  position  and 
five  finalists.  Criteria  for  the  post  were: 
curriculum  development  and  teacher 
evaluation  skills,  disciplinary  standards, 
commitment  to  excellence,  ability  to  work 
as  a  member  of  an  administrative  team, 
and  communication  skills.  George  holds  a 
BA  from  Gordon  College  and  has  attended 
Salem  (N.H.)  State  University  and  Wiscon- 
sin State  University.  He  taught  science  for 
two  years,  and  has  been  assistant  principal 
in  Amesbury,  Mass. 

Stanley  Bebyn,  79,  teaches  at  Bennet 
Junior  High  School  in  Manchester,  Conn. 
.  . .  Anne  Browne,  79,  is  at  Lunenburg 
(Mass.)  High  School. . .  .  Anthony  Messa, 
'79,  is  a  teacher  at  Manchester  Memorial 
High  School  in  New  Hampshire.  .  .  .  Paul 
Starek,  '79,  of  Holliston,  Mass.,  is  on  the 
staff  at  Rindge  Tech.  in  Cambridge.  .  . . 
Robin  Williams,  79,  teaches  at  Ahern 
Intermediate  School  in  Foxboro,  Mass.  . . . 
Paul  Zeolla,  79,  who  resides  in  Dedham, 
Mass.,  is  employed  as  a  staff  member  at 
Walsh  Middle  School  in  Framingham. 


Fall  1 979 /The  WPI  Journal / 37 


School  of  Industrial 
Management 


During  his  career,  Bob  Baxter,  '53,  has 

served  as  New  England  sales  administrator 
for  the  Wickwire  Spencer  Steel  Division  of 
Colorado  Steel  and  Iron;  national  sales 
manager  for  a  Massachusetts  conglomer- 
ate; and  national  sales  manager  for  Steel 
Fab,  Inc.,  Fitchburg,  Mass.  In  1974  he 
formed  Baxter  Enterprises,  acting  as  repre- 
sentative and  broker  for  several  large  firms 
located  in  the  East.  Currently,  the  firm 
operates  strictly  within  the  steel  trade  and 
represents  a  large  foundry,  a  pipe  manufac- 
turer, a  structural  steel  company,  a  perfo- 
rated metal,  expanded  metal,  and  textured 
metal  company,  and  a  tool  and  die  manu- 
facturer. Growth  for  Baxter  Enterprises  has 
increased  at  the  rate  of  25%  per  annum  for 
the  last  three  years. 

Recently,  Harold  White,  '55,  was  named 
vice  president  and  general  manager  of  the 
newly  created  organic  grinding  wheel  divi- 
sion at  Norton  Co.  in  Worcester.  His  divi- 
sion will  include  the  vitrified  grinding  wheel 
division  and  the  diamond  products  division, 
as  well  as  the  organic  grinding  wheel  divi- 
sion. Previously,  White  was  vice  president 
and  managing  director  of  abrasives  opera- 
tions in  Northern  Europe  for  Norton.  He  is  a 
registered,  professional  engineer. 

Clifford  Pontbriand,  '58,  holds  the  post  of 
director  of  operations  for  American 
Polarizers,  Inc.  in  Reading,  Pa.  Earlier,  he 
was  vice  president  of  manufacturing  at  the 
Cool-Ray  division  of  Warner  Lambert  Co., 
and  had  been  with  American  Optical  in 
Southbridge,  Mass. 

John  Cray,  '59,  who  retired  in  1973  as 
purchasing  agent  after  28  years  of  service 
at  Bay  State  Abrasives,  Westboro,  Mass. ,  is 
now  a  part-time  consultant  doing  statistical 
analyses  for  the  Central  Mass.  Employers' 
Association.  He  has  a  BA  and  MA  from 
Assumption  College.  He  belongs  to  the 
Audubon  and  Forbush  Bird  Club  and  is  a 
backyard  gardner.  Active  in  church  affairs, 
he  has  served  nine  years  on  the  Parish 
Council  and  as  a  lector  and  adult  education 
teacher.  He  was  chairman  of  the  Hearings 
Board  for  three  years,  and  has  been  a 
member  of  the  religious  education  execu- 
tive board.  He  has  been  active  at  the 
Calvary  Retreat  Center;  been  a  promoter  of 
the  speaker's  list;  and  concerned  with  the 
Worcester  County  Ecumenical  Council.  He 
is  a  former  member  of  the  worship  commit- 
tee. "Sometimes  I  wonder  when  I  found 
time  to  go  to  work  before  forced  retirement 
at  age  65." 


Paul  Kearney,  '59,  presently  serves  as  an 
accident  prevention  consultant  for  the 
Central  Mass.  Employers'  Association  of 
Worcester.  Formerly  he  was  with  the 
Worcester  Gas  Light  Co.  (now  Common- 
wealth Gas  Co.)  for  many  years,  retiring  in 
1 972  as  manager  of  the  Hyde  Park- 
Dedham  Division.  He  is  a  past  president  of 
the  Dedham  Rotary  Club.  His  hobbies  in- 
clude gardening  and  traveling.  He  has  been 
to  Hawaii,  Jamaica,  the  Canary  Islands, 
Canada,  and  England.  "The  next  trip  will  be 
to  Portugal,  when  I  obtain  enough  loose 
change. "  He  has  studied  at  Holy  Cross,  the 
University  of  Michigan  and  Columbia. 

Donald  Sangster,  '61,  writes:  "Living  in 
Greenville,  S.C.  A  most  pleasant  spot  ex- 
ceptforlong,  hot,  humid  summers.  For  the 
last  three  years  I've  been  shuffling  paper  at 
a  textile  machinery  importing  and  supply 
house,  a  far  cry  from  my  previous  long  life 
in  machinery  manufacturing  manage- 
ment." Sangster's  son  is  in  oil  exploration 
with  Phillips  in  Oklahoma.  His  daughter 
recently  climbed  in  the  Himalayas.  His  first 
grandchild,  a  boy,  was  born  last  December. 
He  says  he'd  like  to  hear  from  other  '61  SIM 
people. 

Henning  Frederiksen,  '63,  has  been  ap- 
pointed to  the  board  of  directors  at  Bay 
Bank  United  in  Taunton,  Mass.  He  is 
president-treasurer  of  Plainville  Machine 
Works,  Inc.,  and  holds  corporate  positions 
at  Plainville  Products,  Inc.  and  Plainville 
Hydraulics.  A  veteran  of  World  War  II  and 
the  Korean  conflict,  he  served  with  both 
the  U.S.  Army  and  Air  Force.  He  belongs  to 
the  Lions  Club  and  the  Masons. 

Philip  Nims,  '65,  is  chief  engineer  of  the 
Textile  Division  atCrompton  &  Knowles 
Corp.,  Charlotte,  N.C. 

Scott  Sargent,  '65,  has  been  elected  vice 
president  and  controller  of  Morgan  Con- 
struction Co.  in  Worcester.  With  the  firm 
for  22  years,  most  recently  he  held  the  post 
of  controller  and  assistant  treasurer.  He 
graduated  from  Bowdoin,  and  is 
secretary-treasurer  of  the  Bowdoin  Alumni 
Club  of  Worcester.  He  is  a  member  of  the 
Financial  Executives'  Institute. 

Vincent  Kubert,  '68,  is  a  project  engineer  at 
Harris  Corp.,  Grand  Prairie,  Texas.  Harris  is 
one  of  the  world's  largest  builders  of  web 
type  printing  presses,  and  presently  is  con- 
structing a  $30  million  manufacturing  plant 
in  Grapevine,  Texas.  Kubert  lives  in  Ar- 
lington. 


Recently,  Alfred  Alicandro,  '69,  sold  his 
company,  Entec  Plastic  &  Engineering 
Corp.  to  a  group  of  private  businessmen. 
He  founded  the  firm  after  graduating  from 
WPI.  It  ultimately  grew  to  1 7  plastic  injec- 
tion molding  machines  manufacturing 
8-track  cartridge  tapes  and  cassettes  and 
related  products.  It  also  expanded  to  1 0 
warehouses  and  nationwide  distributor- 
ships. In  Leominsterthe  firm  employed  125 
people.  The  engineering  section  designed 
products  and  molds  for  the  industry. 
Alicandro  is  being  retained  for  a  time  as  a 
consultant  by  the  new  owners,  after  which 
he  and  his  wife  will  relocate  to  Cape  Cod. 
He  was  listed  in  the  1 975  edition  of  "Who's 
Who  In  Massachusetts." 

Robert  Goff,  '70,  a  former  division  superin- 
tendent for  New  England  Power  Co., 
Worcester,  is  retired  and  residing  in  Paw- 
catuck,  Conn. 

Warren  Prescott,  '72,  has  retired  and  is 
living  in  North  Fort  Myers,  Florida. 

Alan  Skiest,  '74,  holds  the  position  of 
senior  programmer-analyst  for  DECUS 
(Digital  Equipment  Corporation  Users  So- 
ciety), located  at  the  Marlboro,  Mass.  facil- 
ity of  Digital  Equipment  Computer  Corp. 

Robert  Harris,  '76,  is  manufacturing  man- 
ager at  Henry  L.  Hanson,  Inc.,  Worcester. 

Raymond  Knowles,  '79,  has  purchased 
Graham  Manufacturing  Co.,  Inc.  East 
Greenwich,  R.I.  and  renamed  it  Graham 
Products.  Previously,  he  was  vice  president 
and  general  manager  of  Rawling  Gear,  a 
member  company  of  Gear  Motions  in 
Shrewsbury.  Graham  Products  produces 
machine  vises,  pressroom  equipment,  and 
related  products. 


38 /The  WI'I  Journal/ Fall  J 979 


Dr.  Jerrold  P.  Commons,  college  physician 
and  head  of  health  services  at  WPI,  died  at 
his  home  in  Worcester  on  July  25,  1 979. 

He  was  a  native  of  Los  Molinos,  Calif.  In 
1952  he  graduated  from  the  Washington 
University  Medical  School  in  St.  Louis.  He 
was  also  a  graduate  of  the  University  of 
California.  He  served  his  internship  at  St. 
Louis  County  Hospital,  Clayton,  Mo.,  and 
his  residency  at  Worcester  State  Hospital. 

Since  1978,  Dr.  Commons  was  acting 
director,  residency  in  family  practice,  at  the 
University  of  Massachusetts  Hospital.  He 
was  also  director  of  student  and  employee 
health  at  the  hospital,  and  associate  profes- 
sor of  family  and  community  medicine. 

He  was  on  the  staff  of  Hahnemann 
Hospital,  and  had  been  director  of  the 
Family  Health  Center  of  the  hospital  on 
Dean  St.  As  health  physician  at 
Hahnemann,  Dr.  Commons  was  responsi- 
ble for  the  emergency  health  care  of  em- 
ployees, and  served  as  house  physician  for 
student  nurses.  He  was  appointed  to  the 
hospital  staff  in  1956. 

Dr.  Commons  was  a  member  of  the 
Massachusetts  Medical  Society,  American 
Academy  of  Family  Practice,  American  Col- 
lege Health  Association,  American  School 
Health  Association,  Royal  Society  of 
Health,  Worcester  District  Medical  Society, 
and  the  board  of  governors  of  the  Mas- 
sachusetts Academy  of  Family  Physicians. 
He  was  a  World  War  II  Army  veteran. 

Harvey  C.  Friars,  '13,  a  retired  farmer,  died 
at  his  home  in  Shrewsbury,  Massachusetts 
on  June  1 8,  1 979  at  the  age  of  90. 

He  was  born  on  Jan.  30,  1889  in  Sussex, 
New  Brunswick,  Canada.  After  studying 
electrical  engineering  at  WPI,  he  worked 
for  the  Worcester  Electric  Company  and 
Commonwealth  Electric  in  Summit,  N.J. 
before  becoming  a  self-employed  farmer. 

A  former  long-time  member  of  the 
Shrewsbury  Light  Commission,  he  also  be- 
longed to  the  Tech  Old-Timers. 


Norman  C.  Firth,  '20,  of  Maplewood,  New 
Jersey  passed  away  on  December  18, 
1978 

From  1 936  to  1 954  he  held  the  post  of 
publishing  director  of  Dun  &  Bradstreet, 
Inc.  in  New  York.  Concurrently  he  served  as 
editor  of  "Dun's  Review,"  as  vice  president 
of  a  subsidiary,  Dun  &  Bradstreet  Corp., 
and  as  director  of  the  Business  Economics 
Department.  Previously,  he  had  been  with 
McGraw-Hill  Publishing,  Inc.,  for  former  A. 
W.  Shaw  Co.  of  Chicago,  and  the  U.S. 
Army  as  a  2/Lt.  in  the  Engineers  Corps 
during  World  War  I. 

After  retiring  from  Dun  &  Bradstreet,  he 
wrote  business  books,  pamphlets,  and  did 
some  free-lance  editing.  He  belonged  to 
the  American  Marketing  Association,  the 
American  Economic  Association,  American 
Statistical  Association,  and  Adult  Education 
Association.  He  was  a  former  president  of 
the  Board  of  Trustees  of  the  South 
Orange-Maplewood  (N.J.)  Adult  School. 

Mr.  Firth  graduated  with  a  BSEE  from 
WPI,  and  was  a  member  of  ATO.  He  was 
born  on  Sept.  30,  1895  in  Westfield,  Mass. 

Philip  S.  Parker,  '22,  a  retired  chief  en- 
gineer at  H.  K.  Ferguson  Co.,  died  on 
November  30,  1978  in  Middletown,  Con- 
necticut. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  was  born  on  April 
13,  1901.  In  1922  he  graduated  as  a  civil 
engineer.  During  his  career  he  was  with  the 
U.S.  Geological  Survey;  Massachusetts 
Department  of  Public  Works;  Stone  & 
Webster;  E.  B.  Badger  &  Sons;  and  Metcalf 
&  Eddy.  Prior  to  joining  Ferguson  in  New 
York  City  in  1 954,  he  served  as  chief  of  the 
process  plant  division,  Dresser-Stacey,  in 
Cincinnati. 

Mr.  Parker  belonged  to  the  Cleveland 
Engineering  Society,  Armed  Forces  Chemi- 
cal Association,  and  American  Society  for 
Testing  Materials.  He  was  a  former  trea- 
surer of  the  New  York  Chapter  of  the 
Alumni  Association. 

Morgan  M.  Whitney,  '22,  a  retired  me- 
chanical engineer  associated  with 
Griscom-Russell  Co.,  New  York  City,  for 
many  years,  died  at  his  home  in  Southbury, 
Connecticut  on  May  31,1 979. 

After  graduation,  he  became  an  assistant 
in  the  WPI  ME  department.  Later  he  was 
with  Whitney  &  Co.,  Leominster,  Mass., 
where  he  was  factory  manager.  In  1 961  he 
joined  Baldwin-Lima-Hamilton  as  a  sales 
engineer,  and  for  a  time,  was  a  self- 
employed  manufacturers'  agent  and  pri- 
vate consultant.  He  was  born  June  17, 
1901  in  Leominster,  Mass. 

A  member  of  the  ASME,  he  also  be- 
longed to  the  Masons  and  Phi  Gamma 
Delta.  He  was  a  former  treasurer  of  the 
New  York  Chapter  of  the  WPI  Alumni 
Association  His  son,  Morgan  M.  Whitney, 
Jr.,  graduated  from  WPI  in  1959. 


Robert  B.  Smith,  '24,  owner  of  the  former 
Smith  Bros.  Plumbing  &  Heating  Co.,  died 
in  Leominster  (Mass.)  Hospital  on  June  21 , 
1 979.  He  was  76  years  old. 

He  was  a  native  and  life-long  resident  of 
Leominster.  After  attending  WPI,  he 
graduated  from  Northeastern  University  A 
journeyman,  master  plumber,  and  mechan- 
ical engineer,  he  had  worked  in  the  family 
business  for  37  years,  before  retiring  in 
1972. 

Mr.  Smith  belonged  to  the  Episcopal 
Church,  and  was  a  32nd  degree  Mason, 
and  a  Scottish  Rite  and  Shrine  member.  He 
was  a  past  patron  of  Temple  Chapter,  OES, 
and  a  member  of  the  Leominster  Senior 
Citizens. 

Harold  G.  Butterworth,  '28,  retired  assist- 
ant to  the  general  manager  of  Factory 
Insurance  Association,  died  of  a  heart  at- 
tack on  June  9,  1979  at  the  Hartford 
(Conn.)  Hospital. 

He  was  born  Feb.  19,  1906  in  Athol, 
Mass.  In  1928  he  received  his  BSCE  from 
WPI.  After  graduation  he  joined  the  Fac- 
tory Insurance  Association  (now  Industrial 
Risk  Insurers),  and  stayed  with  the  com- 
pany for  42  years,  retiring  in  1971.  While 
with  the  firm,  he  served  as  an  inspector,  a 
supervisor  of  underwriting,  and  an  execu- 
tive special  agent,  before  becoming  assist- 
ant to  the  general  manager.  He  belonged 
to  Theta  Chi,  and  was  the  father  of  Richard 
C.  Butterworth,  '55. 

Clifford  S.  Livermore,  '28,  died  at  his  home 
in  Brooklin,  Maine  on  June  19,  1979  at  the 
age  of  72. 

He  graduated  with  a  BSME  in  1 928.  Until 
1 941  he  was  employed  by  the  New  York 
Telephone  Co.  in  New  York  City.  During 
World  War  II  he  was  commissioned  a 
commander  in  the  Naval  Reserve.  Later,  he 
was  named  staff  director  in  the  Research 
and  Development  Division  of  the  Office  of 
the  Assistant  Secretary  of  Defense  in 
Washington,  DC.  He  retired  in  1968. 

Mr.  Livermore  was  a  former  member  of 
the  American  Ordnance  Association,  Na- 
tional Rifle  Association,  and  the  National 
Geographic  Association.  He  belonged  to 
Phi  Gamma  Delta.  A  past  president  of  the 
New  York  Chapter  of  the  WPI  Alumni 
Association,  he  had  also  served  as  a  Council 
Representative.  He  was  born  on  Sept.  5, 
1906  in  Holyoke,  Mass. 


Fall  1979    The  WPI  Journal    39 


Emil  R.  Dube,  '32,  died  of  congestive 
heart  failure  on  May  2 1 , 1 979  at  the  home 
of  his  daughter  in  Bronxville,  New  York. 

A  Fall  River,  Mass.,  native,  he  was  born 
thereon  May  13,  1909.  He  was  a  member 
of  the  Class  of  1 932 ,  and  studied  chemistry 
at  WPI.  He  then  joined  Malt  Diastase  Co., 
Brooklyn,  N.Y.,  as  a  chemist.  For  a  time  he 
was  chemist-in-charge  at  Swift  &  Co.,  in 
Jersey  City  and  was  later  named  chief 
chemist  and  eastern  quality  assurance 
manager  at  Swift  in  Kearny,  N.J.  He  retired 
in  1 974  after  forty  years  of  service. 

A  member  of  the  American  Chemical 
Society,  Mr.  Dube  also  belonged  to  the 
Institute  of  Food  Technologists. 

Frederick  L.  Yeo,  '36,  of  Upland,  California 
passed  away  on  April  26,  1979. 

In  1936  he  graduated  as  a  civil  engineer 
from  WPI,  and  joined  Boston  &  Maine 
Transportation  Co.,  Boston,  where  he 
stayed  until  1941.  From  1941  to  1961  he 
was  with  the  U.S.  Navy.  He  retired  as  a 
commander  in  1961. 

For  the  next  fifteen  years  he  was  em- 
ployed by  Aerojet-General  Corp.  in  Azusa, 
Calif.,  where  he  was  reliability  and  quality 
control  manager  for  the  Midas  Satellite 
Program.  After  retiring  from  Aerojet,  he 
ran  a  small,  part-time  accounting  business. 

Mr.  Yeo  belonged  to  Phi  Gamma  Delta. 
He  was  born  in  Winchester,  Mass.  on  April 
3,  1913. 

John  W.  Luoma,  '49,  of  Los  Gatos,  Califor- 
nia recently  passed  away. 

He  was  born  on  July  25,  1 926  in  Fitch- 
burg,  Mass.  He  received  his  BSEE  from 
WPI.  For  many  years  he  worked  for  Gen- 
eral Electric,  and  was  at  various  times  lo- 
cated in  Vermont,  Pennsylvania,  and  in 
California,  where  he  was  an  application 
engineer.  He  was  a  member  of  Theta  Chi 
and  Sigma  Xi. 

Walter  L.  Magnuson,  Jr.,  SIM  '61,  a  regis- 
tered engineer  and  senior  manufacturing 
engineer  for  Jamesbury  Corp.  of  Worces- 
ter, died  on  June  20, 1 979  at  The  Memorial 
Hospital,  Worcester.  He  was  57 

He  was  a  soloist  in  the  Bethlehem  Cove- 
nant Church  Choir  and  a  cantor  at  Temple 
Emanuel  in  Worcester.  A  charter  member 
of  the  Salisbury  Singers,  he  was  also  a  32nd 
degree  Mason,  a  member  of  the  Scottish 
Rite,  the  Shrine,  and  the  Society  of  Man- 
ufacturing Engineers. 

Mr.  Magnuson  graduated  from  North- 
eastern University.  Prior  to  joining  James- 
bury,  he  had  been  associated  with  George 
F.Wright  Steel  &  Wire  Co. 


Philippe  P.  Cousteau,  '67,  son  of  oceanog- 
rapher  Jacques  Cousteau,  was  killed  in  a 
seaplane  which  crashed  while  he  was  land- 
ing it  near  the  Tagus  River  in  Alverca, 
Portugal  on  June  28,  1979. 

A  photographer,  author,  and  diver,  the 
younger  Cousteau  devoted  as  much  time 
to  flying  as  his  father  did  to  underwater 
research.  In  1976  he  barely  escaped  death 
in  a  helicopter  crash  on  Easter  Island.  He 
made  his  first  aqualung  dive  at  4,  and  won 
a  glider  pilot's  license  at  16. 

He  dived  in  every  ocean  in  the  world,  and 
shared  the  experience  with  millions  as  TV 
producer,  photographer,  and  lecturer.  He 
studied  briefly  at  WPI  and  MIT,  and  held  a 
degree  in  science  from  the  College  de 
Normandie. 

After  leaving  the  U.S.,  he  returned  to 
Paris  to  train  as  a  cinematographer.  He 
worked  on  the  award-winning  feature  film, 
"World  Without  Sun,"  and  was  one  of  six 
"oceanauts"  to  live  235  ft.  below  the  sea 
for  28  days  during  the  historic  Conshelf  III 
Project  in  1 965  for  a  National  Geographic 
Special  on  CBS. 

In  1 968  he  began  filming  "The  Undersea 
World  of  Jacques  Cousteau"  for  ABC.  He 
was  vice  president  of  the  Cousteau  Society 
and  director  of  the  Cousteau  TV  series 
which  won  ten  Emmy  awards.  With  his 
father,  he  wrote  the  book,  Sharks. 

Philippe  Cousteau  is  survived  by  his  wife, 
Jan,  and  daughter,  Alexandra.  He  was  born 
on  Dec.  30,  1940  in  Toulon,  France. 


In  the  summer  issue  of  the  |ournal,  the  death  of  Elbridge  M. 
Smith,  Sr.,  '45,  was  incorrectly  listed  as  that  of  Elbridge  M.  Smith, 
Jr. 


Kenneth  H.  Maymon,  '70,  manager  of 
conversion  engineering  at  General  Electric 
in  Fitchburg,  Mass.,  died  in  Nashua,  New 
Hampshire  on  March  23, 1979.  Hewas45. 

Associated  with  G  E  for  the  past  24  years, 
he  had  graduated  in  1 954  from  Wentworth 
Institute,  and  had  received  a  BSME  from 
WPI  in  1970.  He  served  as  Republican 
town  chairman  and  as  a  member  of  the 
budget  committee  in  Milford,  N.H. 

He  was  a  former  Eagle  Scout,  scoutmas- 
ter, and  a  troop  committeeman.  A  former 
vestryman  of  the  Church  of  Our  Saviour, 
he  was  also  a  past  master  councilor  of 
DeMolay  in  Riverside,  R.I.  He  had  been  a 
dad  advisorfor  DeMolay  in  Milford,  and  an 
advisory  board  member.  He  was  a  recipient 
of  the  DeMolay  Cross  of  Honor.  A  past 
master  of  a  Masonic  lodge,  he  was  also  an 
Arch  Mason  and  a  Scottish  Rite  member. 

At  the  time  of  his  death,  he  was  serving 
as  district  deputy  grand  lecturer  of  the 
Second  Masonic  District.  He  was  grand 
representative  to  the  Grand  Lodge  in 
Washington,  D.C.,  and  had  received  the 
General  John  Sullivan  award.  He  was  born 
on  April  6,  1933  in  Providence,  R.I. 

Bronislaw  Stasiowski,  '74,  died  at  his 
home  in  Chicopee  Falls,  Massachusetts,  on 
March  12,  1979  at  the  age  of  53. 

A  lifelong  resident  of  Chicopee,  he  was 
born  on  September  25,  1925.  He 
graduated  from  Hampden  College  of 
Pharmacy.  In  1974  he  graduated  with  an 
MS  from  WPI.  Forthe  pastten  years  he  was 
a  science  teacher  at  Chicopee  High  School. 
Previously,  he  had  been  manager  of  Wha- 
len  Drugstore. 

Mr.  Stasiowski  was  a  Navy  veteran  of 
World  War  II,  and  a  member  of  the  Elks. 

Robert  P.  Lyle,  '78,  drowned  in  January  in 
Stearns  Reservoir,  Framingham,  Mas- 
sachusetts, following  a  skating  accident. 
His  body  was  recovered  on  March  14. 

He  was  born  on  February  20,  1955  in 
Framingham.  He  had  received  his  BS  in 
chemical  engineering  from  WPI. 

The  accident  occurred  during  20-below 
zero  weather,  severely  hampering  rescue 
attempts  by  police  and  MDC  scuba  teams, 
which  were  characterized  by  Norman  Lyle, 
Robert's  father,  as  "absolutely  fantastic." 

Wayne  K.  Shiatte,  '78,  died  in  a  construc- 
tion accident  in  Wheaton,  Illinois  on  April  4, 
1979. 

He  was  inspecting  a  storm  sewer  project, 
when  he  was  overcome  by  an  excess  of 
carbon  dioxide  in  the  air.  He  was  employed 
by  Baxter  &  Woodman,  Inc.,  consulting 
engineers. 

Born  on  Feb.  20,  1956  in  Marysville, 
Calif.,  he  later  enrolled  at  WPI  and 
graduated  with  a  BSCE  in  1978.  He  be- 
longed to  ATO.  His  father  is  Kenneth  W. 
Shiatte,  '53. 


40 /The  WPI  journal/  Fall  1919 


WINTER  1980 


wprmmnm 

lJ  ifll 


jgogaan  imm 


e: 


Vol.  83  no.  4 


Winter  1980 


A  room  at  the  top 

A  peck  at  some  interesting  graffiti  recorded 
on  the  walls  of  the  upper  reaches  of 
Boynton's  tower. 

Sports 

A  look  at  WPI's  football  comeback,  and  other 
matters,  as  told  by  Mark  Mandel. 

WPI's  new  head  man  at  ASME 

Don  Zwiep  of  our  ME  Department  becomes  a 

world  traveler  and  national  engineering 

spokesman. 

A  special  Who's  Who  profile  by  Ruth  Trask. 


15  Justice  delayed 

The  continuing  saga  of  Howard  Freeman's 
20-year  battle  with  Uncle  Sam. 

16  ARL  coming  up  on  100 

17  Your  class  and  others 
38        Completed  careers 


Editor:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Alumni  Information  Editor:  Ruth  S.  Trask 

Design:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Typesetting:  County  Photo  Compositing, 
[efferson,  Mass.,  and  Davis  Press,  Inc., 
Worcester,  Mass. 

Printing:  The  House  of  Offset,  Inc.,  So- 
merville,  Mass. 


Address  all  correspondence  to  the  Editor, 
The  WPI  loiirnal  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute,  Worcester,  Massachusetts 
01609.  Telephone  (617)  753-141 1. 

The  WPI  Journal  (USPS  no.  0148-6128)  is 
published  for  the  WPI  Alumni  Associa- 
tion by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 
Copyright  ®  1 980  by  Worcester  Polytech- 
nic Institute.  All  nghts  reserved. 

The  WPI  journal  is  published  five  times  a 
year,  quarterly  plus  a  catalog  issue  (identi- 
fied as  no.  2)  in  September.  Second  Class 
postage  paid  at  Worcester,  Massachusetts. 


WPI  ALUMNI  ASSOCIATION 

President:  fohn  H  McCabe,  '68 

Senior  Vice  President:  Walter  B.  Denncn, 
Jr., '51 

Vice  President:  Peter  H.  Horstmann 

Secretary-  Treasurer:  Stephen  I.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President:  William  A.  (ulian,  '49 

Fiicuhy  Representative:  Kenneth  E.  Scott, 
'48 

Executive  Committee  members-at -large: 
Philip  B.  Ryan,  '65;  Donald  E.  Ross,  '54; 
Anson  C.  Fyler,  '45;  Harry  W  Tenney,  Ir., 
'56 

Fund  Board:  G.  Albert  Anderson,  '51, 
chairman;  Henry  Styskal,  Jr.,  '50,  vice 
chairman;  Richard  B.  Kennedy,  '65;  Gerald 
Finkle,  '57;  Philip  H.  Puddington,  '59; 
Richard  A.  Davis,  '53;  C.  John  Lindegren, 
'39 


Winter  1980 /The  WPI  Journal/  1 


The  northwest  corner  of  the  tower 
room,  with  the  stairs  leading  to  the 
clock  and  roof,  and  the  site  of  the  gra- 
fitti. 


A  room  at  the  top 


YOU  KNOW  the  clock  tower  on 
Boynton.  You  may  remember  the  oval 
wooden  stairway  that  used  to  wind 
its  way  from  the  basement  to  the 
third  floor.  But  there's  a  fourth  floor 
in  the  tower  that  not  many  WPI  stu- 
dents have  seen.  Some  certainly  have, 
however,  and  we've  got  proof. 

The  flagpole  atop  the  tower  was 
taken  down  a  few  years  ago,  a  victim 
of  rust  and  old  age,  and  with  its  re- 
moval ended  a  tradition  of  students 
who  had  the  job  of  raising  the  flag. 
With  the  renovation  of  Boynton,  we 
had  occasion  to  wonder  just  what 
was  up  in  that  tower  room,  now 
reachable  only  by  ladder  from  the 
third  floor.  So  we  climbed. 


We  found  a  bright,  airy  room 
with  windows  on  three  sides  offering 
a  fine  view  to  the  south  and  east  of 
the  WPI  campus.  We  found  an  old 
doorway  leading  to  a  truly  ancient 
stairway  that  went  still  further  up 
into  the  dark  upper  recesses  of  the 
tower,  leading  to  the  clock  mecha- 
nism, powered  by  a  small  electric  mo- 
tor driving  four  large  shafts,  one  for 
each  face.  And  beyond  that,  a  series 
of  steps  that,  frankly,  I  didn't  care  to 
try  to  climb.  I'll  leave  that  for  the 
birds  that  were  flying  in  from  the 
outside. 

Retreating  to  the  bright  room 
whose  walls  were  being  renewed,  I 
noticed  that  one  corner,  near  the  up- 
per stair  door,  hadn't  been  touched, 
and  it  contained  an  authentic  record 
of  some  WPI  history.  For  there,  writ- 
ten in  pencil  and  pen,  were  signatures 
and  comments  written  by  the  genera- 
tions of  students  who  had  climbed 
the  tower  to  raise  or  lower  the  flag  (or 
for  other  purposes,  too). 

Among  other  moments  recorded 
on  those  walls  were: 


A  November  8,  1957,  overflight  of  the 
second  soviet  satellite,  "Muttnik." 
The  flag's  being  at  half-mast  for  30 
days  following  the  assassination  of 
John  Kennedy. 

Another  half-mast  period,  this  for  as- 
tronauts Grissom,  White,  and  Chafee, 
who  died  in  the  Apollo  fire  in  1967. 
Numerous  trips  by  students  with 
guests  (mostly  female). 
A  visit  by  at  least  one  current  mem- 
ber of  the  Board  of  Trustees,  Robert 
C.  Stempel,  '55. 

And  at  least  one  "overnight,"  this  by 
Joe  Y.  (?)  and  Gordon  F.  in  1960  (?). 


2 /The  WPI  Journal /  Winter  1980 


tarn 


s« 


»     W~     -' 


^ 


This  is  the  heart  of  the  tower  clock. 
It  is  simply  too  dark  inside  to  photo- 
graph the  rest  of  the  tower  insides. 


Winter  1980 /The  WP1  Journal/ 3 


Fall  Sports 

by  Mark  Mandel 

WPI  Sports  Information  Director 

The  1979  Fall  sports  season  reflected 
the  state  of  the  art  at  WPI.  Although 
still  in  a  state  of  transition,  WPI  has 
been  building  an  athletic  reputation 
that  is  worthy  of  its  academic  stan- 
dards. The  achievements  of  this  fall's 
teams  have  only  enhanced  that  repu- 
tation. 

By  defeating  Hamilton  21-6  in 
the  last  game  of  the  season,  WPI  fin- 
ished with  its  best  football  record  (3- 
5)  since  1972.  And  although  a  3-5 
year  is  not  ordinarily  something  to 
rave  about,  a  closer  inspection  of  the 
season  reveals  a  great  promise  for  the 
years  to  come. 

It  was  both  a  frustrating  and  a 
satisfying  year  for  head  coach  Bob 
Weiss.  The  season's  opening  game 
roster  included  51  freshmen  out  of  a 
total  of  84  players.  It  was  clear  from 
the  start  that  WPI's  chances  were 
contingent  on  how  fast  the  youthful 
team  would  mature.  The  aging  proc- 
ess may  have  been  excruciatingly 
slow  for  Weiss,  as  the  team  lost  four 
straight,  frustrating  games  that  could 
easily  have  gone  the  other  way  with  a 
break  or  two.  Finally,  late  in  the  sea- 
son, the  Engineers  began  to  show  that 
they  were  learning  what  they  needed. 
WPI  won  its  last  two  games. 

Especially  encouraging  was  the 
play  of  quarterback  Bob  Montagna, 
who  came  on  strong  after  a  slow  start 
and  proved  himself  an  effective  run- 
ner, passer,  and  team  leader.  His  per- 
formance in  the  season-ending  victo- 
ries earned  him  two  ECAC  Honor 
Roll  selections.  Only  a  sophomore, 
Montagna  will  be  back  next  year, 
along  with  a  fine  supporting  cast  of 
players. 


4 /The  WPI  Journal / Winter  1980 


■MW 


v^r*V(P. 


From  the  defense,  which  played 
well  all  season  long,  thirteen  line- 
men, five  linebackers,  and  all  but  one 
starter  in  the  secondary  are  expected 
to  return  in  1 980.  The  offensive  team 
will  have  fourteen  linemen  returning, 
plus  every  backf  ield  member  except 
the  talented  Mike  "Smokey"  Robin- 
son. 

"We  are  definitely  on  target,"  said 
Weiss  after  the  season.  "To  think  that 
we  won  more  games  than  we  have 
since  1972,  and  considering  that  we 
came  close  in  four  others,  makes  me 
believe  that  our  returning  team  can 
set  its  goals  higher  in  1980.  There's 
no  question  that  we'll  miss  our  senior 
leadership,"  he  added.  "Tri-captains 
Pete  Kelleher  (honorable  mention 
All-New  England),  Jeff  Rosen  (Jewish 
All- American),  and  Bob  Yule  did  an 
outstanding  job  for  us  this  year.  But  I 
feel  that  they've  laid  a  strong  founda- 
tion for  the  younger  players  to  build 
on. 


The  highlight  of  the  fall  season 
was  the  9-3-1  performance  by  the 
Engineer  soccer  team.  Although  it 
was  not  exactly  a  rags-to-riches  story 
the  team  played  far  beyond  the  ex- 
pectations of  everyone,  including 
head  coach  Alan  King.  The  1979  sea- 
son was  expected  to  be  a  "rebuilding" 
year  for  WPI,  which  had  a  4-7-1  rec- 
ord in  1978.  Instead,  it  became  the 
year  that  the  Engineers  earned  the 
highest  ranking  any  WPI  team  ever 
achieved,  an  honorable  mention  in 
the  Top  Ten  Division  III  teams  na- 
tionwide. 

It  was  also  the  year  that  the 
team  would  be  rated  as  high  as  ninth 
in  the  New  England  soccer  poll,  and 
go  on  to  earn  a  second  seed  in  the 
NCAA  Division  III  New  England 
Tournament.  WPI  lost  in  the  first 
round  of  that  tourney,  2- 1  in  over- 
time to  Brandeis,  but  the  team  was 
still  selected  as  the  Number  1  Divi- 
sion III  team  in  New  England  by  the 
New  England  Intercollegiate  Soccer 
League.  At  the  same  time,  Alan  King 
was  selected  as  the  coach  of  the  year. 

"The  selection  as  New  England's 
best  Division  III  team  is  justified," 
says  King.  "The  team's  performance 
throughout  the  year  was  outstanding. 
I'm  thankful  for  the  coach  of  the  year 
award,  but  a  coach  is  only  as  good  as 
his  players.  You  can't  produce  a  win- 
ning team  without  the  complete  co- 
operation of  the  individuals." 

First  and  foremost  among  those 
individuals  was  All-New  England  Leo 
Kaabi,  who  led  the  team  both  on  and 
off  the  field.  Kaabi  scored  1 7  goals 
and  had  six  assists  to  put  him  in 
third  place  among  WPI's  all-time  sin- 
gle season  scorers. 


The  1979  cross-country  season 
started  out  on  an  ominous  note  in 
the  annual  city  meet  with  Assump- 
tion, Clark,  and  Worcester  State.  A 
sick  captain  John  Turpin  collapsed 
with  just  400  yards  to  go  after  he  had 
been  leading  the  race.  Turpin  did  not 
finish,  and  WPI  settled  for  second 
place  (by  one  point)  to  Assumption. 

Things  went  downhill  from 
there,  as  Turpin  took  longer  than  ex- 
pected to  return  to  top  form.  The 
Engineers  chalked  up  seven  losses  in 
a  row.  Finally,  though,  with  Turpin 
leading  the  pack,  the  harriers  finished 
strong  by  beating  their  last  seven  op- 
ponents, including  a  season-ending 
victory  over  Bates,  Tufts,  MIT,  and 
Bowdoin  in  a  quad-meet.  Head  coach 
John  Brandon's  men  finished  the  sea- 
son with  an  8-8  record. 


The  women's  tennis  team, 

coached  by  Marcia  Kennedy,  was 
very  successful  in  its  first  outing  as  a 
varsity  team,  chalking  up  a  7-2  sea- 
son. The  two  losses  came  at  the 
hands  of  Assumption  and  Brandeis, 
both  of  which  had  representatives  in 
the  finals  of  the  AIAW  (Association 
for  Intercollegiate  Athletics  for 
Women)  championships. 

On  the  season,  Lisa  Longwell,  a 
freshman,  was  a  standout,  posting  a  6- 
3  reecord  as  a  first  singles  competitor. 
Deborah  Biederman,  another  fresh- 
man, was  7-2  as  the  second  singles 
player. 


The  women's  volleyball  team, 

also  in  its  first  year  as  a  varsity  sport, 
did  not  fare  as  well.  Seniors  Elaine 
O'Neill,  Cathy  McDermott,  and  Col- 
leen O'Connor  played  well,  but  the 
Engineers  could  only  post  a  6- 1 1  rec- 
ord. 


Winter  1980 /The  WPI  Journal/ 5 


wprs 

new  head  man 
at  ASME 


by  Ruth  Trask 

HONOLULU.  TOKYO.  MANILA.  Jakarta  Peking 
Leisurely  tourist  stops  on  a  Far  Eastern  pleasure  tour?  Not 
for  Prof.  Donald  N.  Zwiep,  head  of  the  WPI's  Mechanical 
Engineering  Department  and  current  president  of  the 
American  Society  of  Mechanical  Engineers.  For  Don 
Zwiep,  those  exotic  locales,  plus  a  wide  variety  of  U.S.  ci- 
ties, coast  to  coast,  have  been  a  part  of  the  working  itiner- 
ary and  rigorous  travel  schedule  he's  followed  since  being 
installed  as  ASME  president  last  June.  For  the  past  six 
months,  he  has  represented  the  ASME  in  this  country  and 
abroad  and  served  as  a  U.S.  delegate  and  negotiator  for  a 
number  of  important  international  engineering  agree- 
ments. 

"I  am  finding  my  term  in  office  most  rewarding," 
Zwiep  says.  "In  the  Far  East,  for  example,  we  were  able  to 
sign  several  agreements  of  cooperation  that  should  prove 
beneficial  to  the  Society  and  the  profession  in  the  future. 
The  trip  was  especially  enjoyable  because  my  wife,  Mar- 
cia,  was  able  to  go  with  me." 

On  Friday,  November  2,  Don  and  Marcia  Zwiep  and 
Dr.  and  Mrs.  Rogers  Finch  (executive  director  of  ASME) 
flew  to  Kauai,  Hawaii,  to  attend  the  annual  conference  of 
the  American  Consulting  Engineers  Council,  at  which 
they  were  special  invited  guests.  Zwiep  addressed  the 
group,  emphasizing  a  reaffirmation  of  ASME's  position  of 
cooperation  with  ACEC  and  similar  organizations.  After 
an  afternoon  of  sightseeing,  the  travelers  attended  the 
ACEC  banquet  at  which  they  were  entertained  by  a  dem- 
onstration of  the  historical  development  of  the  island 
through  fashion  and  the  hula. 

The  next  day,  Don  met  with  the  Hawaii  section  of 
ASME  in  Honolulu,  where  he  presented  the  27-year-old 
group  with  the  Centennial  Charter  and  honored  the  im- 
mediate past  chairman  of  the  section.  "Being  involved 
with  this  meeting  gave  me  a  strong  feeling  of  achieve- 
ment. The  ASME  is  doing  some  of  its  operations  in  just 
the  right  way." 


6  /The  WP1  journal  /Winter  19HU 


On  Monday,  November  5,  Zwiep  and  his  party  left  for 
Tokyo.  They  especially  wanted  to  meet  with  the  ASME 
members  in  the  Tokyo  area  to  get  their  ideas  on  how  the 
Society  could  better  serve  its  members  in  foreign  loca- 
tions. One  of  the  group's  objectives  was  to  negotiate  an 
agreement  of  cooperation  with  the  Japanese  Society  of 
Mechanical  Engineers  (JSME).  This  type  of  agreement  pro- 
vides for  exchange  of  publications  and  other  information, 
professional  assistance  to  traveling  engineers,  and  other 
types  of  cooperation  that  will  benefit  both  the  organiza- 
tions involved  and  their  members. 

Don  recalls  his  arrival  in  Tokyo:  "I  suppose  each  visi- 
tor to  a  foreign  country  has  a  series  of  special  impressions 
thrust  on  him.  My  case  was  no  different.  Imagine  my  sur- 
prise when  I  stepped  from  the  loading  dock  of  the  plane  to 
see  my  name  flashing  on  the  bulletin  board.  I  reported  at 
the  information  desk  and  received  a  message  that  the  as- 
sistant secretary  of  JSME  had  arranged  our  transportation 
to  Tokyo  and  would  meet  us  at  the  baggage  area.  We  rode 
to  Tokyo  in  one  of  the  finest  buses  I've  ever  been  on  (Gen- 
eral Motors,  beware!)  in  terms  of  seating  comfort,  vision, 
quietness,  and  cleanliness.  Needless  to  say,  I  was  favorably 
impressed.  And  while  Tokyo  seems  overwhelmed  with 
traffic,  everyone  seems  patient,  and  the  movement  of  the 
cars  takes  place  in  orderly  fashion.  But  air  pollution  seems 
serious." 


After  eight  business  hours  with  the  JSME,  six  hours 
of  ceremonial  activites  concerning  the  signing  of  the 
agreement  of  cooperation  took  place  at  Happo-En,  a  Japa- 
nese garden  restaurant  complete  with  music,  chopsticks, 
floor  cushions,  and  traditional  foods. 

The  next  destination  was  Manila.  Although  the 
ASME  representatives  had  been  treated  cordially  wherever 
they  had  traveled,  they  were  still  not  prepared  for  the  wel- 
come awaiting  them  in  the  Philippines.  They  were  met  at 
the  airport  by  25  cheering  members  of  the  Philippine  So- 
ciety of  Mechanical  Engineers  (PSME),  a  large  banner, 
flower  leis  and  corsages,  and  a  battery  of  TV  cameras. 

"At  the  Manila  Hotel,  a  PSME  tailor  measured  me  for 
a  Throng  tagalong'  and  Marcia  for  a  long,  embroidered 
gown,"  Don  recalls.  "He  was  to  make  the  clothes  overnight 
and  deliver  them  at  5  p.m.  the  next  day,  because  we  were 
to  wear  them  to  a  banquet  that  next  evening.  Not  only  did 
the  outfits  arrive  on  time  —  they  fit!" 

The  following  day  involved  a  variety  of  activities,  in- 
cluding a  meeting  with  the  commissioner  of  licensing  for 
all  professional,  technical,  and  skills  groups,  ranging  from 
barbers  to  doctors  to  engineers.  They  went  sightseeing, 
then  met  with  PSME  to  finalize  the  agreements.  At  the 
banquet,  the  agreements  were  signed,  the  speeches  were 
appropriately  flowery  and  the  spirit  of  cooperation  was 
gratifying.  During  the  festivities,  the  PSME  presented  Don 
with  an  elegant  bronze  and  red  velvet  plaque. 

After  the  Philippines,  it  was  off  to  Singapore,  the  most 
comfortable  flight  of  the  entire  trip  (courtesy  of  Singapore 
Airlines).  Singapore  was  a  catch-your-breath  stop,  and  the 
travelers  stayed  at  the  world-famous  Raffles  Hotel,  a  bit 
faded  but  still  having  a  touch  of  its  elegant,  historic  past. 
Then  it  was  on  to  Jakarta,  Indonesia,  for  the  World  Federa- 
tion of  Engineering  Organizations  (WFEO)  Conference, 
with  Zwiep  serving  as  one  of  the  ten  U.S.  delegates.  He  at- 
tended the  WFEO  seminar  on  engineering  needs  and  one 
on  technology  transfer.  On  November  15,  Indonesia's  Vice 
President  Malik  officially  opened  the  conference,  whose 
theme  was  "Food,  Transportation,  and  Energy"  in  relation 
to  the  less  developed  countries.  During  the  proceedings, 
another  agreement  of  cooperation  was  signed.  The  confer- 
ence bore  other  fruit,  too.  Says  Don,  "During  our  meetings, 
I  found  enough  IQP  topics  for  WPI  students  to  last  the 
next  ten  years!" 

While  in  Jakarta,  the  Zwieps  and  the  Finches  stayed 
at  the  year-old  Mandarin  Hotel,  which  was  "absolutely 
splendid"  even  though  located  in  a  hot,  poor  city.  The  old 
rickety  buses  and  bicycle  carts  were  in  sharp  contrast  to 
those  they  had  seen  in  Japan. 


Winter  1980 /The  WPI  Journal/ 7 


The  Indonesian  conference  finished,  the  group  re- 
turned to  Japan,  where  the  100th  anniversary  celebration 
of  the  Japanese  Society  of  Engineers  was  in  progress.  "This 
was  an  important  occasion,  and  a  particularly  relevant 
one,"  says  Zwiep,  because  the  ASME  starts  its  own  100th 
anniversary  celebration  in  1980." 

The  Crown  Prince  and  Princess  of  Japan  were  present 
during  the  anniversary  activities.  The  royal  pair  greeted 
the  Americans  in  English  and  capped  their  welcome  with 
handshakes  instead  of  the  traditional  bows  with  which 
they  had  greeted  the  Japanese  guests  present. 

Once  the  formal  festivities  were  completed  in  Japan, 
the  travelers  took  to  the  air  again  (!).  This  time  the  des- 
tination was  Peking.  In  China,  the  ASME  representatives 
were  to  meet  with  the  top  officials  of  the  Chinese  Me- 
chanical Engineering  Society. 

"We  were  rather  worried,  because  our  plane  arrived  in 
China  ahead  of  schedule,"  Zwiep  recalls.  "We  just  didn't 
know  what  to  expect."  Early  or  not,  the  Chinese  rolled  out 
the  red  carpet  for  their  American  visitors.  They  provided 
an  interesting  itinerary  and  transportation  to  the  Peking 
Hotel.  Obviously  their  arrival  had  been  preceded  by  a  "let- 
ter of  introduction"  from  a  Chinese  government  agency. 
"The  night  before  Thanksgiving,  we  were  treated  to  dinner 
with  five  Chinese  engineers  and  directors  at  the  renowned 
Peking  Duck  Restaurant,"  Don  reports.  "It  was  really  mem- 
orable. We  were  told  that  there  are  actually  two  Peking 
Duck  restaurants  in  the  city.  One,  located  near  a  hospital, 
is  called  the  'sick  duck'  by  the  locals.  They  didn't  take  us 
to  that  one,"  Don  says  with  a  grin.  The  meal  began  with  a 
covered  cup  of  tea,  then  many  courses  of  food  delivered  to 
the  center  of  the  table  for  all  to  help  themselves  with 
chopsticks.  The  meal  ended  with  soup  and  fruit. 


8/The  Wl'l  Journal / Winter  1980 


Accorded  VIP  treatment  as  first-time  visitors  to  the 
Chinese  Mechanical  Engineering  Society,  the  travelers 
were  allowed  to  visit  the  fabled  palace  in  Peking's  Forbid- 
den City  without  the  customary  red  tape.  They  also 
toured  the  Machine  Tool  Research  Institute,  about  75 
miles  outside  of  Peking,  a  trip  that  required  a  special  visa. 
Says  Don,  "there  were  no  photo  restrictions  of  any  kind, 
and  we  saw  a  lot  of  the  countryside.  Inside  the  Institute, 
everything  was  quite  up-to-date,  except  for  the  micropro- 
cessors and  computers.  The  guides  explained  that  the  re- 
pressive 'Gang  of  Four,'  since  tumbled  from  power  in 
China,  was  responsible  for  the  shortcoming." 

Meanwhile,  Marcia  and  Mrs.  Finch  were  invited  to  go 
on  a  kindergarten  tour.  Children  from  about  two  to  seven 
attended  the  school,  which  was  part  of  the  Machine  Tool 
Research  Institute.  The  American  visitors  were  met  with 
a  sign  in  English  and  Chinese.  Their  interpreter  was  a  fe- 
male mechanical  engineer  who  had  been  educated  in  Rus- 
sia about  30  years  ago.  A  five-year-old  boy  sang  "Do-Re- 
Mi"  from  "The  Sound  of  Music."  (Editor's  note:  This  partic- 
ular song  seems  to  be  the  song  which  schoolchildren  sing 
to  American  visitors  in  China.  1  wonder  whyl)  Several 
children  danced  and  sang,  and  little  girls  offered  the 
guests  candy.  "They  were  utterly  charming,"  comments 
Marcia,  herself  a  former  school  teacher,  "and  obviously 
had  rehearsed  many  hours  for  their  show  to  us." 

Both  Marcia  and  Mrs.  Finch  were  impressed  with  the 
teacher-student  ratio  at  the  kindergarten:  23  teachers  for 
100  students!  The  school  rooms  were  divided  up  accord- 
ing to  the  age  of  the  pupils,  with  each  age  group  having  its 
own  room.  "Every  room  had  a  picture  of  Mao  on  the  wall, 
a  table,  chairs,  a  pump  organ,  cribs,  and  blankets,"  reports 
Marcia.  "The  children  ate,  played,  and  napped  in  their  own 
areas.  Everyone  wore  heavy,  quilted  jackets  to  ward  off  the 
cold  inside  the  rooms." 

"We  were  something  of  a  novelty,"  Marcia  confides. 
"We  were  told  that  we  were  the  first  outsiders  ever  to  visit 
the  school.  The  children  were  cautiously  friendly  and  ex- 
tremely well  behaved. 

At  Tsing  Hua  University,  a  technically  oriented 
school  like  WPI  or.MIT,  the  visitors  toured  the  mechani- 
cal engineering  department.  Again  the  computer  deficien- 
cies were  evident,  but  the  holograph  and  laser  measure- 
ment techniques  were  not  only  good,  they  matched  the 
best  one  could  find  anywhere.  "There  were  several  current 
engineering  magazines  about,"  says  Don.  "One,  the  ASEE 
Journal  had  Dr.  Finch's  picture  on  the  cover.  And  the  staff 
had  heard  all  about  Norton  Company."  The  university  li- 
brary had  a  noticeable  lack  of  technological  books,  be- 
cause there  had  been  no  purchases  made  during  the  Cul- 
tural Revolution  from  1966  to  1976.  The  Chinese  engi- 
neers are  familiar  with  Marks'  Mechanical  Engineering 
Handbook  and  similar  classics  of  the  field.  The  Chinese 
professor  who  served  as  their  guide,  Prof.  Zhang 
Guanghua,  met  them  again  at  the  ASME  winter  meeting 
two  weeks  later. 


The  VIP  treatment  continued.  The  guests  ate 
12-course  lunches,  saw  a  colorful,  masked  Chinese  opera, 
and  visited  what  is  still  surely  one  of  the  wonders  of  the 
world,  the  Great  Wall  of  China.  A  Chinese  government 
yacht  was  at  their  disposal  for  a  trip  around  the  Peking 
reservoir.  They  had  an  interpreter  at  all  times. 

"It  is  very  cold  in  Peking  in  November,"  Don  says. 
"The  hotel  was  heated,  but  our  meeting  rooms  were  not. 
We  had  to  keep  on  our  overcoats,  just  like  the  people  do 
in  their  homes.  But  I  really  enjoyed  their  custom  of  conti- 
nuously serving  hot  tea  at  all  of  our  meetings.  The  airport 
and  the  planes  are  unheated,  too,  until  they  cross  the  Chi- 
nese mainland." 

Zwiep  describes  the  city  of  Peking  itself  as  much  less 
colorful  than  its  American  counterparts,  because  there  are 
no  flashy  neon  lights  or  colorful  dress.  The  people  wear 
dull  looking,  regimental-type  clothes  of  blue,  green,  or 
gray  material.  A  child's  jacket  or  a  scarf  provides  an  occa- 
sional splash  of  color.  There  are  lots  of  bikes  and  semi- 
trailer passenger  buses,  very  efficient  people  carriers. 

Oddly,  for  a  nation  seemingly  committed  to  mass 
transit,  China  does  pride  itself  on  its  manufacture  of  a  few 
black  limousines.  "They  look  like  a  cross  between  an  old 
Buick  Roadmaster  and  a  current  Cadillac  Fleetwood,"  says 
Don.  Riding  in  or  driving  an  automobile  is  a  privilege  re- 
served for  the  few.  "If  anyone  is  fortunate  to  own  a  small, 
personal  car,  he  shines  it  at  each  and  every  opportunity." 

There  is  virtually  no  unemployment,  according  to 
Zwiep.  "China  is  fifty  to  one  hundred  years  behind  the 
rest  of  the  world  in  agriculture  production,  although 
changes  for  the  better,  including  some  modern  tractors, 
were  in  evidence.  However,  much  of  the  work  still  has  to 
be  done  by  hand.  That  keeps  everyone  employed." 

Before  leaving  Peking  for  Japan  and  the  flight  back 
home,  Don  helped  work  out  arrangements  for  a  represen- 
tative from  the  Chinese  Mechanical  Engineering  Society 
to  attend  the  ASME  Emerging  Technologies  Conference 
next  August.  The  fundamentals  of  an  agreement  of  coop- 
eration were  developed.  The  Chinese  were  to  consider  fur- 
ther, and  they  stated  they  were  confident  the  agreement 
would  be  signed  in  a  year  or  two. 

In  his  meetings  with  top  engineering  officials  of 
China,  Don  feels  they  want  sophisticated  technology  such 
as  computers,  seismic  gear  for  oil  exploration,  and  satel- 
lites. "But  they  are  geared  to  do  their  own  development 
and  production  of  this  hardware,  even  if  it  takes  a  longer 
time.  They  want  a  fully  self-sufficient  country." 


FOR  THE  MOST  PART,  the  travelers'  flying  time  had 
been  pleasant  if  somewhat  tiring.  They  encountered  no 
particular  problems  until  their  return  flight  from  Tokyo 
to  New  York.  "Ten  minutes  from  JFK  we  ran  into  a  freak 
storm,"  Don  recalls.  "After  a  fourteen-hour  flight  from  Ja- 
pan, we  had  to  circle  Kennedy  Airport  before  being  sent 
on  to  Dulles  (in  Washington,  D.C.)  because  we  were  get- 
ting low  on  fuel.  When  we  finally  landed,  we'd  spent 
about  32  hours  time  in  the  air  and  at  airports." 

Don  Zwiep,  however,  was  predictably  unperturbed  by 
his  32-hour  flight  experience.  During  World  War  II,  he 
served  in  the  U.S.  Army  Air  Force  as  a  pilot  and  crew  com- 
mander of  a  B-24  bomber.  He  completed  59  combat  mis- 
sions and  "Hump"  flights  while  serving  with  the  492d 
Bomb  Squad,  7th  Bomb  Group,  in  the  China-Burma-India 
Theatre.  A  former  member  of  the  Air  Force  Reserve,  Don 
retired  with  the  rank  of  lieutenant  colonel  after  22  years 
of  reserve  duty.  A  little  matter  like  extra  air  time  should 
hardly  faze  him. 

Zwiep  reverts  to  Air  Force  vernacular  when  describ- 
ing his  duties  as  president  of  the  American  Society  of  Me- 
chanical Engineers.  "I  stick  to  a  strict  flight  plan,"  he  de- 
clares. "Personally,  I  find  there  is  a  similarity  between  serv- 
ing as  a  bomber  commander  and  serving  as  president  of 
ASME.  In  each  case  I'm  involved  with  policy,  and,  follow- 
ing that,  I  try  to  carry  out  the  designated  plan  of  opera- 
tions to  the  best  of  my  ability." 

Historically,  ASME  has  been  run  by  a  consensus  de- 
rived directly  from  the  membership.  Zwiep  feels  that  he  is 
a  part  of  that  consensus,  but  that  as  the  temporary  (one- 
year)  president  of  ASME,  his  primary  function  is  to  imple- 
ment and  articulate  the  policies  of  the  Society  and  to  pre- 
serve its  technical  eminence.  The  directions  he  moves  in 
are  those  that  have  generally  been  determined  by  the  ma- 
jority of  the  membership. 


Winter  1980 /The  WPl  journal/ 9 


He  does  have  a  pet  project  that  he  likes  to  promote 
within  ASME,  though.  "I  feel  strongly  that  one  of  the  high- 
est honors  that  an  engineer  can  attain  is  recognition  by 
his  peers,"  comments  Zwiep,  who  served  as  chairman  of 
ASME's  Honors  and  Awards  Committee  for  three  years. 
"For  this  purpose,  ASME  over  the  years  has  established  a 
number  of  honors  and  awards  —  many  underwritten  by 
corporate  or  foundation  sponsors  —  usually  named  after  a 
prominent  ASME  member.  The  trouble  is,  during  the  last 
ten  years  the  Society's  membership  has  almost  doubled, 
but  the  number  of  awards  has  not.  Therefore,  it  seems  to 
me  that  if  we  are  going  to  provide  more  incentive  to 
achieve  within  our  membership,  one  of  the  priorities  we 
should  concentrate  on  is  finding  new  sources  of  sponsor- 
ship to  help  us  expand  the  system  of  honors  and  awards. 
As  I  continue  in  office,  I  shall  focus  many  of  my  efforts  in 
this  area." 

Expansion  of  the  ASME  achievement  awards  program 
has  been  only  one  of  a  long  list  of  concerns  Zwiep  has 
dealt  with  during  his  presidency.  "Until  recently,  Alaska 
had  no  regular  ASME  section,"  he  says.  "Now  it  has  both  a 
regular  section  and  a  student  section."  In  September,  Don 
was  in  Anchorage  to  present  the  ASME  charter  to  the 
Alaska  Section.  All  50  states  now  have  regular  and  stu- 
dent sections. 

Currently,  ASME  has  95,000  members  and  a  total  of 
200  sections.  "In  1980,  as  we  celebrate  our  100th  anniver- 
sary, a  new  Centennial  Section  will  become  part  of  the  So- 
ciety," Zwiep  reports.  "In  the  early  1980s,  we  are  projecting 
an  overall  expanded  membership  of  some  100,000." 


Although  President  Zwiep  enjoys  helping  build  up 
membership  in  the  ASME,  he  also  deals  with  the  South 
American  and  Central  American  engineering  societies 
(UPADI)  on  a  good-will  basis.  "We  have  met  with  their  rep- 
resentatives to  discuss  the  transfer  of  technology  to  less 
technically  developed  nations,"  he  says.  "We  do  not,  how- 
ever, plan  to  move  the  ASME  into  their  territory."  Other 
delicate  negotiations  are  in  progress  between  the  ASME 
and  the  Canadian  Mechanical  Engineering  Society. 

Don  Zwiep,  although  besieged  by  a  hectic  time  table, 
would  be  the  first  to  admit  that  his  schedule  contains  few 
dull  moments.  For  example,  one  week  he  may  be  out  West 
visiting  the  regular  and  student  chapters  of  ASME  ("a  great 
learning  ground  for  a  president-elect"),  and  the  next  week 
he  could  be  attending  the  dedication  of  a  national  historic 
mechanical  engineering  landmark,  such  as  the  Drake  Oil 
Well  in  Titusville,  Pa.  At  WPI  he  turns  up  in  his  dual  role 
as  head  of  the  ME  department  and  president  of  ASME  to 
speak  on  "Perspectives  in  Mechanical  Engineering"  during 
the  Carl  Gunnard  Johnson  Memorial  Colloquium  series. 

Then  Zwiep  may  be  traveling  to  a  legislative  forum 
in  Washington,  D.C.,  where  he  meets  with  Senator  Byrd  or 
the  head  of  the  National  Science  Foundation;  to  an  ASME 
meeting  in  Salt  Lake  City;  to  a  landmark  ceremony  for  the 
EERBI  reactor  in  Idaho;  to  an  Applied  Mechanics  Confer- 
ence in  Niagara  Falls,  N.Y.;  and  on  to  another  ASME  meet- 
ing in  Atlanta.  After  meeting  with  the  American  Society 
for  Engineering  Education  in  Baton  Rouge,  he  attends  a 
meeting  of  the  Founders'  Society  of  Presidents,  followed  by 
a  trek  to  Des  Moines  for  an  Interim  (regional)  Conference 
of  ASME.  At  last,  he  heads  to  his  office  in  the  ASME  head- 
quarters in  New  York  City  to  do  battle  with  the  Society's 
$18  million  budget. 

In  September,  he  confers  with  the  Engineers'  Joint 
Council,  the  Centennial  Steering  Committee,  the  New 
York  Section  of  ASME,  and  the  Finance  Committee.  On 
September  29th,  he  receives  a  "roasting"  and  a  reception, 
including  a  two-inch  thick  pine  plaque  studded  with  four 
lucky  horseshoes  from  the  Worcester  section  of  ASME. 
The  plaque  says,  "Keep  Pitching,  Don."  (Zwiep  is  an  old 
hand  at  winning  the  WPI  ASME  student  section  horse- 
shoe pitching  contests.) 

His  October  diary  notes  a  meeting  with  the  ASME 
Council  to  recommend  and  discuss  changes  for  Society 
structure  in  its  second  century;  a  bout  with  laryngitis  in 
Atlanta;  and  a  Zwiep  talk  about  energy  on  TV  in  Char- 
lotte, N.C.  In  Los  Angeles,  he  is  slated  to  give  a  paper  at 
the  Engineers  Council  for  Professional  Development  deal- 
ing with  the  AAES,  an  engineers'  "umbrella"  society.  Other 
stops  are  in  Hot  Springs,  Virginia;  Buffalo,  where  he 
presents  a  paper;  and  back  to  New  York  City,  where  he 
presides  at  a  banquet. 


10 /The  WPI  journal /  Winter  1980 


By  now  it  is  November,  and  Zwiep  is  off  to  headquar- 
ters for  two  days  of  meetings  prior  to  his  Far  East  trip.  "For 
me,  the  Executive  Committee  meeting  was  of  strategic  im- 
portance," Don  confides.  "That  group,  on  behalf  of  the 
ASME  Council,  approved  a  model  document  which  later 
enabled  Dr.  Rogers  Finch  and  me  to  negotiate  agreements 
of  cooperation  with  the  mechanical  engineering  societies 
in  the  Philippines,  Japan,  and  Indonesia."  He  looks  out  his 
window,  thoughtfully.  "Less  than  two  years  ago,  I  never 
imagined  I'd  be  in  a  position  to  handle  such  an  undertak- 
ing. Being  president  of  ASME  has  some  real  rewards." 


HAVING  A  DEPARTMENT  HEAD  serve  as  presi 
dent  of  a  national  engineering  society  has  also  been  re- 
warding for  WPI.  There  is  both  high  prestige  and  high  visi- 
bility in  the  position,  and  it  carries  with  it  an  intrinsic 
amount  of  good  will  that  cannot  help  but  rub  off  on  WPI. 
In  recognition  of  Zwiep's  notable  achievements  and  con- 
tributions, the  WPI  Alumni  Association  honored  Don  and 
his  wife  at  a  reception  at  the  Hotel  Statler  in  New  York 
City  during  the  ASME  winter  annual  meeting  on  Decem- 
ber 3.  Among  those  on  hand  for  the  festivities  were  WPI 
President  Edmund  Cranch,  Vice  President  Thomas  Den- 
ney  and  Association  Secretary-Treasurer  Stephen  J.  He- 
bert,  '66.  "The  reception  was  most  enjoyable,"  says  Zwiep. 
"We  saw  a  number  of  recent  graduates  whom  we  hadn't 
seen  in  some  time,  and  we  also  met  some  new  friends." 

Although  he  was  grateful  at  the  response  to  his  recep- 
tion, Zwiep  emphasizes  that  he  is  especially  grateful  to 
WPI  for  allowing  him  to  adjust  his  schedule  so  that  he 
could  accept  the  post  of  president  of  ASME.  "I  also  want  to 
thank  the  members  of  the  ME  department,  who  gener- 
ously adjusted  their  own  schedules  so  that  I  could  under- 
take my  new  duties,"  he  says.  "They  have  done  a  splendid 
job  in  my  absence." 

Did  Zwiep  campaign  hard  to  become  ASME  presi- 
dent? "No,"  he  replies  with  a  smile.  "I  didn't  campaign  at 
all.  When  I  was  asked  in  April  of  1978  if  I  would  allow  my 
name  to  be  sent  to  the  national  nominating  committee,  I 
knew  that  I  was  probably  in  the  running,  along  with  six  to 
ten  other  viable  candidates.  I  was  then  asked  to  send  a  re- 
sume to  the  nominating  committee,  as  well  as  a  statement 
that  I  would  serve  if  elected.  My  selection  as  president- 
nominee  was  a  complete  surprise,  for  the  nominating 
committee  is  always  sworn  to  total  secrecy.  I  didn't  learn 
that  I  had  been  selected  until  the  final  announcement  was 
made  at  the  summer  annual  meeting  in  Minneapolis  in 
the  middle  of  June,  1978." 

The  American  Society  of  Mechanical  Engineers,  it 
would  appear,  subscribes  to  the  old  saying,  "When  there's 
an  important  job  to  be  done,  give  it  to  the  busiest  person 
you  know."  Zwiep's  whole  life  has  been  busy,  filled  with 
accomplishment  and  achievement. 


Winter  1980 /The  WPI  journal/  1 1 


DONALD  N.  ZWIEP  began  teaching  mechanical  engi- 
neering in  1951  at  Colorado  State  University.  Prior  to  join- 
ing the  WPI  staff,  Zwiep  worked  full  time  as  a  landing 
gear  design  engineer  on  the  B-50  and  MX-839  aircraft  for 
Boeing  in  Seattle.  He  served  with  the  U.S.  Army  Corps  of 
Engineers  in  Cheyenne,  Wyoming,  in  the  design  and  con- 
struction of  the  local  municipal  airport. 

Zwiep  received  his  MSME  from  Iowa  State  Univer- 
sity. In  1957  he  was  named  professor  and  head  of  the  ME 
department  at  WPI.  By  1965,  his  professional  accomplish- 
ments had  grown  so  much  that  WPI  awarded  him  an  hon- 
orary doctor  of  engineering  degree.  For  several  years,  in  ad- 
dition, he  was  co-head  or  acting  head  of  the  management 
engineering  department. 

He  became  a  member  or  chairman  of  numerous  aca- 
demic and  administrative  committees,  including  the  Insti- 
tutional Committee  on  Evaluation  of  Engineering  Educa- 
tion (1953)  and  the  WPI  Presidential  Selection  Committee 
in  1968.  In  October  1978  he  was  in  charge  of  inaugural 
proceedings  for  President  Cranch. 

Professor  Zwiep  was  the  driving  force  behind  the  ac- 
quisition of  WPI's  nuclear  reactor,  and  he  organized  its 
staffing  and  educational  use.  Presently,  he  is  involved 
with  the  administration  of  the  nuclear  reactor  facility,  and 
he  has  served  as  on  the  Alden  Research  Laboratory  Advi- 
sory Board. 

In  the  classroom,  he  has  taught  in  almost  every  area 
of  mechanical  engineering,  but  with  principal  emphasis 
on  kinematics  and  machine  design,  along  with  metallurgy 
and  thermodynamics.  "Even  with  my  responsibilities  at 
ASME,  I  continue  to  teach  in  the  senior  seminar  course," 
he  declares. 

Still  active  in  consulting  work,  Zwiep  is  also  chair- 
man of  the  Board  of  Trustees  of  the  James  F.  Lincoln  Arc 
Welding  Foundation  of  Cleveland,  and  serves  as  director 
of  their  award  programs.  He  is  particularly  pleased  with 
the  Foundation's  Engineering  Design  Competition.  "Hardly 
a  year  goes  by,"  he  reports  proudly,  "that  a  WPI  student 
doesn't  win  an  award." 

In  his  spare  time,  Zwiep  reviews  books,  appears  as  an 
expert  court  witness,  serves  as  a  member  of  National  Sci- 
ence Foundation  review  panels,  and  as  a  state  science  fair 
judge.  He  has  directed  three  NSF-URF  research  projects 
and  done  outside  consulting. 


One  of  his  articles  on  engineering  education  has  ap- 
peared in  a  publication  in  Puerto  Rico,  while  some  28 
short  articles  on  popular  mechanical  engineering  topics 
were  published  in  the  Grolier  Encyclopedia  and  the  Ency- 
clopedia Americana.  He  has  been  published  in  the  Massa- 
chusetts Society  of  Professional  Engineering  Journal  and  in 
the  publication  of  the  Providence  Engineering  Society.  His 
papers  have  been  presented  at  the  ASEE  annual  confer- 
ence and  at  a  meeting  of  the  Eastern  College  Placement 
Officers. 

Professor  Zwiep  has  received  a  wide  variety  of  profes- 
sional society,  educational,  and  Air  Force  Reserve  cita- 
tions and  awards.  Throughout  the  country,  on  many  occa- 
sions, he  has  been  an  invited  speaker  on  engineering  edu- 
cation topics.  A  registered  professional  engineer  in  Col- 
orado and  Massachusetts,  he  also  belongs  to  Pi  Tau  Sigma, 
Sigma  Tau  (honorary),  Omicron  Delta  Kappa,  Sigma  Xi, 
Tau  Beta  Pi,  and  Skull. 

He  is  listed  in  Who's  Who  in  America,  Who's  Who  in 
Education,  American  Men  of  Science,  Engineers  of  Dis- 
tinction, and  Outstanding  Educators  of  America.  Within 
the  local  community,  he  has  served  as  secretary  and  presi- 
dent of  Torch  International  and  is  a  member  of  the 
Worcester  Economic  Club  and  the  Worcester  Engineering 
Society 


HE  TALKS  ABOUT  his  stint  with  ASME  with  the  en- 
thusiasm and  confidence  of  one  who  has  been  an  active 
member  and  officer  since  his  student  days.  First,  he  is  a 
Fellow  of  the  Society,  the  membership  grade  of  high  dis- 
tinction given  only  to  those  with  significant  engineering 
achievements.  Second,  he  has  served  the  Society  in  many 
capacities,  including  that  of  national  vice  president  of  the 
Policy  Board,  Education,  from  1972  to  1974,  and  concur- 
rently as  a  member  of  the  Council,  the  Society's  governing 
body.  In  1973  he  also  served  on  the  Council's  Executive 
Committee.  A  leader  in  the  organizational  structure  and 
development  of  ASME,  he  was  chairman  of  the  working 
party  on  the  Society's  educational  goal,  was  a  member  of 
the  long-range  study  group,  and,  since  1975,  has  been  a 
member  of  the  Committee  on  Planning  and  Organization. 
He  is  past  chairman  of  the  National  Mechanical  Engi- 
neering Department  Heads  Committee,  and  he  has  been 
chairman  of  the  General  Awards  Committee. 


12 /The  WPI  Journal/  Winter  1980 


Although  recognition  of  members'  accomplishments 
(an  important  personal  concern  of  Zwiep's),  is  a  vital  part 
of  ASME,  it  is  far  from  the  main  thrust  of  the  organiza- 
tion, as  Zwiep  is  quick  to  point  out.  "The  ASME,  while 
still  adhering  to  its  original  objective  of  the  dissemination 
of  technical  information  to  industry  for  the  public  wel- 
fare, is  now  a  multi-faceted  organization,"  he  explains.  "It  is 
concerned  not  only  with  member  interests,  but  with  pro- 
fessional and  public  interests;  its  codes  and  standards  op- 
eration is  a  principal  example." 

He  feels  that  ASME  volunteers,  who  establish  codes 
and  world  standards  for  mechanical  devices,  save  the  U.S. 
government  millions  of  dollars  that  otherwise  would  have 
to  be  paid  to  government  consultants.  "In  this  way,  ASME 
works  directly  in  the  public  interest." 

ASME,  now  moving  somewhat  away  from  a  strictly 
technical  orientation,  lobbies  in  Washington  for  laws  to 
benefit  the  nation.  For  instance,  an  ASME  Congressional 
Fellow  is  available  to  provide  "white  papers"  covering  such 
items  as  energy  alternatives  to  various  congressional  com- 
mittees working  on  specific  legislation.  (WPI  Professor 
lohn  Mayer  was  recently  an  ASME  Congressional  Fellow, 
and  John  Caola,  '80,  a  student  intern.)  This  type  of  assis- 
tance helps  Congress  make  better-informed  decisions  on 
matters  dealing  with  technology. 

As  president  of  the  ASME,  Zwiep  encourages  growth 
in  membership  by  working  closely  with  student  organiza- 
tions and  industrial  employers.  At  the  opposite  end  of  the 
scale,  he  also  works  to  use  the  expertise  and  experience  of 
the  older  members,  many  of  whom  have  retired  from  ac- 
tive industrial  employment.  It  is  Zwiep's  responsibility  to 
see  that  the  policies  established  by  the  all-volunteer  mem- 
bership are  carried  out  by  the  paid  300-member  profes- 
sional staff  at  ASME  headquarters  in  the  United  Engi- 
neering Center  in  New  York.  He  must,  of  course,  attend 
meetings  of  the  ASME  Council,  its  Executive  Committee, 
the  Committee  on  Planning  and  Organization,  and  various 
regional  and  technical  committees,  as  well  as  the  summer 
and  winter  annual  meetings. 

Prior  to  taking  office  last  June,  Zwiep  visited  nine  of 
the  eleven  regions  of  ASME  in  the  U.S.  to  review  pro- 
posals for  the  summer  annual  meeting  agenda.  "Any  mem- 
ber may  propose  any  agenda  item,"  he  says.  "It  will  be 
heard,  receive  a  peer  review  and  then  additional  reviews 
in  the  various  sectional  and  regional  meetings,  and  then  a 
final  disposition  about  inclusion  in  the  national  confer- 
ence agenda."  Some  of  the  areas  he  visits  on  weekends  in 
regard  to  these  matters  range  from  Boston  to  San  Diego, 
Salt  Lake  City  to  Houston.  Says  Zwiep  of  his  travels,  "I 
serve  as  a  spokesman  for  ASME,  with  or  without  portfo- 
lio." 


Winter  1 980  /  The  WPI  journal 


His  wife  Marcia  accompanies  Don  on  many  of  his 
trips,  for  ASME  encourages  presidential  wives  to  travel 
with  their  husbands.  Some  of  the  regions  and  sections  the 
Zwieps  visit  have  auxiliaries  which  annually  give  $70,000 
for  scholarships  and  loans  to  mechanical  engineering  stu- 
dents. "I  am  personally  very  grateful  to  the  Society  for 
these  travel  arrangements,"  Don  continues,  "as  well  as  to 
WTI  for  allowing  me  to  set  up  my  schedule  so  that  I  can 
serve  as  president  of  ASME.  The  Society  plans  to  further 
recognize  those  industries  and  colleges  that  allow  staff 
members  time  off  to  hold  national  posts  in  the  organiza- 
tion." 


NOW  THAT  HE  HAS  BEEN  president  for  half  his 
term,  how  has  Don  Zwiep  been  conducting  the  affairs  of 
the  society?  "I'm  not  a  virtuoso,"  he  answers,  "but  I  do 
know  who  is  performing  well  and  who  is  not.  My  role  is 
more  like  that  of  a  conductor  trying  to  keep  things  har- 
moniously productive." 

Under  Don's  guidance,  the  ASME  has  started  1 980  off 
on  a  harmonious  note.  It  entered  its  first-ever  float  in  the 
annual  Tournament  of  Roses  Parade.  "We  entered  the 
$33,000  float  to  mark  the  centennial  celebration  of  the  So- 
ciety. The  West  Coast  section  took  care  of  the  details,  con- 
ducted the  fund  drive,  and  did  a  remarkable  job!" 

A  major  concern  during  the  next  few  months  will  be 
the  designing  of  a  new  governance  system  for  the  Society. 
"A  lot  of  hard  work  is  involved,"  he  admits.  "We  plan  to 
switch  from  a  governing  council  plan  to  a  board  of  gov- 
ernors system,  and  we  must  have  some  good  answers  for 
the  members  who  ask,  'why  changer" 

Until  his  year  in  office  is  over  in  June,  Zwiep  expects 
to  be  doing  many  "one-night  stands"  nationwide  in  con- 
junction with  the  ASME  centennial  celebration.  He  will 
make  presidential  speeches  and  sanction  centennial  char- 
ters for  new  student  and  regular  sections  of  ASME.  It  is  a 
foregone  conclusion  that  he  will  continue  to  conduct  the 
affairs  of  the  Society  with  the  dignity  and  dedication  that 
has  always  characterized  his  leadership  roles,  whether 
they  be  with  WPI  or  with  ASME. 


Zwiep  has  brought  to  his  presidential  post  a  set  of 
high  principles  and  a  deep  sense  of  responsibility  He  be- 
lieves what  Herbert  Hoover  once  said  about  his  profes- 
sion: 

"Engineering.  It  is  a  great  profession. 
There  is  the  fascination  of  watching  a  fig- 
ment of  the  imagination  emerge  through 
the  aid  of  science  to  a  plan  on  paper. 
Then  it  brings  jobs  and  homes  to  men, 
and  adds  to  the  comforts  of  life.  That  is 
the  engineer's  high  privilege  .... 

"He  cannot,  like  the  politician,  screen 
his  shortcomings  by  blaming  his  oppo- 
nents and  hope  the  people  will  forget. 
The  engineer  simply  cannot  deny  he  did 
it.  If  his  works  do  not  work,  he  is  damned 

"But  the  engineer,  himself,  looks  back 
at  the  unending  stream  of  goodness 
which  flows  from  his  successes  with 
satisfaction  that  few  professions  may 
know.  And  the  verdict  of  his  fellow  pro- 
fessionals is  all  the  accolade  he  wants." 


The  ASME  has  a  special  code  it  follows  in  naming  its  na- 
tional officers:  "Let  the  office  seek  the  man,  not  the  man 
the  office."  With  the  election  of  Don  Zwiep  as  president 
of  ASME,  the  merit  of  that  code  is  plain  for  all  to  see. 


14 /The  WPI  Journal/  Winter  1980 


Justice  delayed 


by  Allan  Sloan 

If,  as  John  Milton  wrote,  they 
also  serve  who  only  stand  and  wait/' 
HOWARD  FREEMAN  (WPI  '40)  and 
his  company  deserve  a  medal. 
They've  been  doing  a  lot  of  waiting 
since  1958,  in  fact.  That's  when  the 
Navy  began  buying  Freeman-designed 
ball  valves  that  allowed  its  fleet  of 
nuclear  submarines  to  take  to  sea. 
Rather  than  giving  Freeman  a 
citation — or,  more  to  the  point,  giving 
his  company  some  money — the  Navy 
allowed  its  submarine  suppliers  to 
lump  Freeman's  patent.  Hardly  some- 
thing to  encourage  capitalism  or  pa- 
triotism. 

After  asking  the  Navy  --  politely 
-  to  pay  him,  and  being  turned 
down  in  an  administrative  proceed- 
ing, Freeman  and  his  company,  James- 
bury  Corp.  of  Worcester,  Mass.,  sued 
the  government  in  the  U.S.  Court  of 
Claims  in  July  1963.  Jamesbury  has 
won  every  round.  Yet  the  company 
has  not  seen  a  penny.  If  it's  lucky,  it 
will  get  its  money  around  1981.  For- 
tunately for  Freeman,  Jamesbury,  a 
well-run  valve  producer,  has  made 
enough  money  —  $5.3  million  ($1.57 
a  share)  in  its  1979  fiscal  year  —  to 
afford  to  slug  it  out  with  the  feds.  Le- 
gal bills  have  run  about  $500,000. 

lamesbury's  seemingly  endless 
struggle  to  get  paid  is  no  small  thing. 
There's  the  money,  of  course;  the 
company  would  get  about  $16  mil- 
lion ($4.70  a  share)  pretax  if  its  claim 
were  granted  in  full  today.  But  more 
important  is  what  it  shows  about  the 
legal  system  and  about  what's  in- 
volved in  suing  the  government  for 
stealing  a  patent.  Remember  this: 
The  Jamesbury  case  is  relatively  nor- 
mal. The  feds  are  not  stalling.  The 
suit  Autogiro  Co.  of  America  brought 
against  the  government  in  1951  for 
infringement  of  patents  on  its  Auto- 
giro (a  precursor  of  the  helicopter) 
lasted  a  record  27  years,  and  nobody 


reprinted  by  permission  of  Forbes 
Magazine  from  the  November  12, 
1979  issue 


was  stalling  there  either.  Except  for  a 
four-year  delay  caused  by  extraneous 
factors,  everyone  has  been  trying  to 
expedite  Jamesbury's  suit,  now  into 
its  second  generation  of  lawyers  and 
judges.  Imagine  how  long  it  would 
take  if  everyone  were  stalling. 

Our  tale  begins  in  1958,  when 
Freeman,  now  61,  was  a  struggling  in- 
ventor trying  to  make  a  living  selling 
the  world  a  better  ball  valve  of  his 
own  design.  It  was  just  four  years  af- 
ter he  had  left  a  good  job  with  a 
Worcester  company  taken  $60,000  of 
locally  raised  seed  money,  and  set  up 
a  small  lab  on  top  of  a  printshop.  He 
was  following  his  dream:  a  better  ball 
valve.  Ball  valves  have  several  advan- 
tages over  globe  valves,  the  kind 
found  on  most  standard  faucets.  A 
ball  valve  operates  by  rotating  a  ball 
mechanism  through  a  quarter  turn, 
and  will  allow  liquids  or  gases  to  flow 
in  either  direction.  A  globe  valve  gen- 
erally takes  several  full  turns  to 
close,  and  is  prone  to  squeaks,  leaks, 
and  faulty  washers. 

Enter  the  Navy,  which  couldn't 
find  a  globe  valve  to  meet  the  re- 
quirements of  its  nuclear  subs. 
Freeman,  who'd  invented  the  fog  noz- 
zle the  Navy  used  on  its  fire  extin- 
guishers during  World  War  II,  had 
valve  expertise  and  security  clear- 
ances. He  whipped  up  the  necessary 
valves,  lectured  on  the  subject,  and 
was  properly  thanked  by  a  grateful 
Navy  --  until,  of  course,  it  came  time 
to  pay  him. 

That  produced  the  1963  lawsuit. 
In  1967  the  judge  ruled  that 
lamesbury's  patent  was  valid  and  the 
Navy  had  infringed  it.  The  govern- 
ment, naturally,  appealed.  Then  came 
a  bombshell:  a  Massachusetts  lawsuit 
by  the  company  that  had  acquired 
Freeman's  previous  employer  claim- 
ing that  Freeman  had  invented  the 
better  ball  valve  while  he  was  still  an 
employee.  It  took  four  years  to  dis- 
pose of  that;  then  the  case  went  back 
to  Washington  for  a  second  trial.  Ja- 
mesbury won,  the  government  ap- 
pealed. In  1975  the  Court  of  Claims 
finally  ruled  that  the  Jamesbury  pat- 
ent was  valid  and  had  been  infringed. 

Then  it  was  time  for  an  account- 
ing trial,  to  determine  how  much  the 
government  owed  Jamesbury.  But 
there  weren't  any  records  of  Navy 


purchases  of  ball  valves  —  after  all, 
the  Navy  was  buying  submarines,  not 
valves.  Three  years  of  tedious  labor 
determined  that,  as  best  anyone 
could  guess,  the  Navy  had  bought 
100,412  infringing  valves  for  $87.3 
million.  Federal  attorneys  agreed  to 
those  figures  and  said  Jamesbury  de- 
served $1.66  million  plus  interest.  Ja- 
mesbury claimed  $8.73  million,  plus 
interest.  The  trial  was  held  in  July 
1978,  final  briefs  were  submitted  last 
June,  and  there's  hope  a  decision  will 
come  down  from  Trial  [udge  Joseph 
Colaianni  sometime  this  year.  After 
Colaianni  rules,  someone  will  doubt- 
less appeal  to  the  full  patent  court, 
and  then  probably  to  the  U.S.  Su- 
preme Court.  If  the  Supreme  Court 
refuses  to  take  the  case,  Jamesburv 
might  get  paid  in  late  1980  or  early 
1981.  If  the  Supreme  Court  hears  the 
case  or  a  new  trial  is  ordered,  who 
knows;  None  of  this  has  attracted 
wide  attention.  Says  Robert  Miller, 
the  Washington  patent  attorney  who 
has  handled  Jamesbury's  suit  for  the 
last  five  years,  "Perry  Mason-type  sit- 
uations don't  happen  here." 

To  find  out  what  the  delay  has 
done  to  Jamesbury,  Forbes  dropped  in 
recently  to  see  Freeman  in  his 
Worcester  headquarters.  In  spite  of 
being  shortchanged  by  the  Navy,  Ja- 
mesbury has  done  rather  well.  Its 
sales  last  year  were  $77.7  million  and 
its  earnings  $5.3  million.  Over  a  typi- 
cal Jamesbury  lunch  —  a  salad  from 
the  employee  cafeteria,  served  on  pa- 
per plates  with  sugar  wafers  for  des- 
sert —  Freeman  indulged  in  a  little 
proud  reminiscence.  "We  were  a  two- 
bit  little  company  in  1957,"  he  said, 
"but  we  held  the  key  to  the  success  of 
the  Navy's  nuclear  fleet." 

Getting  money  after  more  than 
20  years  is  better  than  not  getting  it 
at  all.  But  Jamesbury  isn't  even  get- 
ting a  good  interest  return  --  the  gov- 
ernment began  accruing  interest  at 
4.75  percent  in  1958  and  is  now  pav- 
ing just  8  percent  on  principal,  with 
no  compounding.  Freeman  makes  a 
point  of  not  complaining  about  how 
long  he's  had  to  wait  for  his  monev. 
Still,  the  Jamesbury  saga  amplifies 
the  old  adage:  Justice  delayed,  espe- 
cially at  8  percent  with  no  com- 
pounding, is  certainly  justice  denied. 

Winter  1980    The  WPI  Journal     IS 


In  15  years,  Alden  Research 
Laboratory,  one  of  the  most 
prominent  hydraulic  study 
centers  in  the  United  States, 
will  celebrate  its  100th 
birthday 

The  centennial  has 
generated  student  interest  in 
collecting  records  and  artifacts 
of  ARL's  history  and  putting 
them  together  into  a 
commemorative  scrapbook.  So 
far,  it  has  been  difficult  to 
obtain  much  information, 
especially  about  the  earlier 
years  of  ARL. 

If  any  alumni  can  help  out 
on  this  project,  it  will  be 


greatly  appreciated.  If  you  have 
some  interesting  knowledge  of 
events  from  ARL's  earlier  days, 
or  perhaps  some  documents  or 
records,  would  you  please 
share  them  with  the  students} 

Please  write  to  Mark  W. 
Scott,  in  care  of  The  WPI 
Journal.  All  documents  and 
photographs  can  be  copied  and 
returned  if  you  wish  them 
back.  Thanks  very  much. 

—  Mark  W.  Scott, 
Christopher  A.  Hare,  and  John 
Gleftherakis 


16 /The  WPI  Journal /  Winter  1980 


1914 


Secretary: 

Ellwood  N  Hennessy 

The  Phoenix  Companies 

680  Mechanics  Bank  Tower 

Worcester,  MA 

01608 

The  invitation  from  Harry  W.  Tenney,  Jr.  '56 
"Leadership  Weekend  Chairman"  sent  to  me 
and  55  other  class  secretaries  was  accepted  by 
this  Class  Secretary,  "Bud"  Hennessy,  1914.  The 
workshop  conducted  by  Steve  Hebert  and  Russ 
Kay  was  most  interesting  to  me,  but  when  I 
looked  around  for  the  other  55  secretaries,  to 
discover  only  about  1 5  or  20  present,  I  was 
greatly  disappointed.  There  is  something  wrong 
with  the  situation  as  it  concerns  communication 
between  alumni  and  their  college,  rather  than 
with  communication  between  alumni  and  their 
secretaries. 

What  surprised  me  most  was  that  the  College, 
under  the  name  of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association 
went  to  the  trouble  and  cost  of  printing  up  the 
blue  Class  Secretaries  Handbook.  I  was  truly 
pleased  and  amazed  that  someone  has  dis- 
covered that  the  college  actually  does  want  to 
hear  from  the  secretaries  of  the  older  classes 
beyond  the  50  year  group.  Yes,  I  believe  that 
those  old  living  members  may  still  be  of  some  use 
to  WPI. 

Everyone  in  my  class  knows  Horace  Cole. 
What  they  may  not  know  is  that  Horace  lives 
throughout  the  year  in  so  many  different  places. 
Part  of  the  time  he  lives  in  his  home  in  Sharon, 
Pennsylvania.  Another  part  in  the  summer  time 
in  his  home  at  Wellfleet  on  Cape  Cod,  and  in  the 
winter  time  he  stays  at  his  club  in  Florida.  Since 
your  Secretary  has  a  summer  home  in  Falmouth 
on  Buzzards  Bay,  the  two  of  us  try  to  get 
together  for  a  good  old-fashioned  talk. 

This  year  my  wife,  Dorothy,  and  I  met  Horace 
and  his  son,  Dr.  Richard  Cole,  for  lunch  at  the 
popular  Yarmouthport  Inn  on  Route  6A.  The 
reservation  was  for  1 :30  p.m.  As  we  went  in  the 
door,  the  hostess  said,  "Sorry  you  are  three 
minutes  late  for  your  reservation  so  I  couldn't 
hold  your  table! "  However,  in  about  five  min- 
utes she  gave  us  another  table.  What  a  nice  time 


we  all  had.  Good  food,  interesting  conversations 
and  many  interesting  and  delightful  reminis- 
cences. 

I  am  sure  that  everyone  who  has  been  active  in 
the  Class  of  1 91 4  remembers  the  lovely  home  in 
Spencer,  where  our  Class  President,  Mike 
Dufault,  and  his  wife,  Chris,  entertained  our 
group  years  ago.  For  a  long  period  of  years  I  have 
had  business  in  Ware  which  kept  me  there  twice 
a  year  for  part  of  a  day.  On  my  way  back  to  my 
office  in  Worcester,  I  would  manage  to  arrive  at 
Mike's  home,  just  about  in  time  for  "Happy 
Hour."  What  enjoyable  times  we  had  in  our  talks 
with  Mike  and  Chris  and  a  sister  of  Chris,  who 
was  often  there.  Mike  even  kept  my  favorite 
brand  of  liquid  in  his  kitchen  for  my  entertain- 
ment. 

But  now  Mike  and  Chris,  because  of  poor 
health,  have  sold  their  home,  and  have  gone  to 
live  with  their  widowed  daughter  in  Wellesley. 
So  I  either  correspond  with  him  or  spend  $10.00 
talking  with  him  on  the  phone.  To  talk  with 
Mike,  however,  is  worth  ten  or  twenty  dollars 
anyhow. 

Back  in  1960,  Mike  and  Chris,  and  my  wife 
and  I  happened  to  be  in  Hawaii  together,  he  in 
an  apartment  for  the  winter,  and  we  in  hotels  for 
a  month.  There  again  we  had  wonderful  times 
together  because  Mike  always  knew  where  to 
go  and  what  to  see  to  have  a  good  time. 

In  the  Summer  Journal  for  1 979, 1  note  that 
Edward  A.  Hanff,  '10  of  Pittsburgh  died  on 
February  16,  1979.  This  announcement  is  a  sad 
one  for  me  to  contemplate.  When  I  first  entered 
Tech,  I  lived  in  a  room  next  to  his  in  a  private 
home  on  Fruit  Street.  As  an  upperclassman  he 
was  very  good  to  me,  a  mere  freshman,  so  that 
we  became  good  friends.  I  remember  being 
greatly  impressed  when  he  told  me  he  had  a  job 
for  the  coming  summer  that  would  pay  him  as 
much  as  45  cents  an  hour.  Such  a  high  pay  in 
those  days  was  excellent. 

On  Monday,  October  29th,  I  had  a  most 
enjoyable  talk  over  the  telephone  with  Al  and 
Tillie  Crandon.  They  have  a  lovely  home  in  Little 
Compton,  Rhode  Island.  My  wife,  Dorothy  and  I 
have  had  interesting  and  enjoyable  visits  in  each 
of  our  homes.  For  a  couple  of  years  we  also 
enjoyed  each  other's  company  in  the 
Coonamessett  Inn  in  Falmouth. 
—  "Bud" 

Ellwood  N.  Hennessy, 
Secretary 

After  23  years  of  retirement,  Malcolm  Campbell 
is  teaching  again.  He  has  been  conducting  a  class 
of  27  in  life  history  writing  at  the  Hawthorne 
retirement  community  in  Leesburg,  Fla.  For- 
merly, he  had  taught  for  38  years  at  Dorchester 
High  School  in  Boston.  Active  in  the  New  En- 
gland Biological  Association,  he  was  named  pres- 
ident, and  in  1938  represented  the  NEBA  in  the 
formation  of  the  National  Association  of  Biology 
Teachers.  He  became  president  in  1939,  and 
attended  the  annual  convention  at  Ohio  State  in 
Columbus.  "We  offered  a  year's  membership 
and  monthly  issues  of  The  American  Biology 
Teacher  for  one  dollar  a  year  —  and  still  ended 
the  first  year  with  a  $300  balance!"  In  1956,  he 
was  one  of  eight  science  teachers  in  New  En- 
gland to  receive  the  Elizabeth  Thompson  Award 
for  excellence  in  science  teaching.  Although  he 
spent  only  a  year  at  WPI,  Mr.  Campbell  says  it 
"was  a  most  valuable  step  in  my  education." 
Later,  he  continued  his  education  at  Mas- 
sachusetts Agricultural  College,  and  decided  to 
plant  Macintosh  apples  at  his  Harvard  farm. 


1915 


Maurice  Steele,  historian  of  the  Rome  (N.Y.) 
Rotary  Club,  is  currently  writing  a  history  of  the 
60-year-old  club.  He  is  also  arranging  for  the 
third  yearly  consecutive  reunion  of  his  1910 
Harford  (Conn.)  Public  High  School  class. 


I9I8 

Secretary 
John  F  Kyes.  Jr. 
40  Holden  St. 
Holden,  MA 
01520 

The  Maurice  Richardsons  celebrated  their  60th 
wedding  anniversary  on  June  28,  1979.  They 
were  honored  during  the  60th  annual  Rotary 
installation  dinner  in  Amsterdam,  N.Y.  Mr. 
Richardson  was  recognized  by  the  club  for  his 
37-year  perfect  attendance  record.  In  1 961 ,  he 
retired  from  Mohawk  Carpet  Mills  (now 
Mohasco  Industries),  after  serving  20  years  as 
manager  of  engineering.  He  had  been  with  the 
firm  since  1923.  Earlier,  he  had  worked  four 
years  as  a  consulting  engineer  in  New  England. 
He  is  a  Naval  veteran  of  World  War  I.  For  12 
years  he  was  executive  director  of  the  Amster- 
dam Community  Chest  (now  United  Fund).  Four 
years  ago,  he  retired  completely.  Last  year  he 
moved  to  a  retirement  apartment  in  Saratoga 
Springs. 


1924 


In  September,  Warren  Fish  received  an  Award  of 
Merit  in  the  nation's  most  prestigious  competi- 
tion for  local  history  achievement  from  the 
American  Association  for  State  and  Local  History 
for  his  notable  contributions  to  the  cause  of 
historical  preservation.  Nominations  originate  at 
the  local  level  and  are  screened  at  the  state  and 
regional  levels  by  a  national  network  of  judges. 
Only  those  nominees  approved  in  the  prelimi- 
nary competitions  are  considered  for  national 
honors.  Mr.  Fish  was  one  of  100  nominees.  The 
American  Association  for  State  and  Local  History 
has  given  awards  to  local  historians  and  historical 
agencies  since  1 944.  It  has  a  membership  of  over 
6000. 

After  fifteen  months,  Willard  Gallotte  has 
completed  a  contract  with  Metro-Transit  (Seat- 
tle) as  a  consultant  coordinator  between  design 
and  construction  for  a  $46  million  trolley-bus 
project.  He  pushed  contracts  for  26  small  substa- 
tions serving  55  miles  of  trolley.  "It  sort  of  boosts 
one's  ego  when  out  of  the  blue,  at  the  age  of  76, 
I  was  hired  to  help  out  by  a  firm  that  I  had  never 
worked  for."  He  "retired"  again  at  a  luncheon 
attended  by  division  and  department  heads  and 
other  colleagues. 


Winter  1980 /The  WPI  Journal/  11 


1927 

Secretary 
William  M.  Rauha 
4  Whiffletree  Rd 
West  Yarmouth,  MA 
02673 

The  Harold  Eastmans  celebrated  their  50th 
wedding  anniversary  on  Oct.  5,  1979.  Mr. 
Eastman  retired  in  1 968  after  1 9  years  at  Anchor 
Hocking  and  22  years  at  Hartford-Empire- 
Emhart.  "Forty-one  years  of  business  related  to 
producing  glass  containers."  The  Eastmans  now 
are  "pleasantly  situated"  in  Friendship  Village, 
Columbus,  Ohio. 


1928 


Secretaries: 
Gifford  T.  Cook 
Rte.  3  Box  294 
Keyes  Perry  Acres 
Harpers  Ferry,  WV 
25425 

Theodore  J  Englund 
70  Eastwood  Rd. 
Shrewsbury,  MA 
01545 

Last  March  and  April,  Andrew  Maston  was  at  GE 
in  Pittsfield,  Mass.,  as  an  inspector  for  Alcoa  on 
the  repair  of  a  large  transformer  which  was 
needed  for  plant  expansion.  (He  retired  from 
Alcoa  in  1971.)  He  writes  of  his  GE  stint,  "In 
1 928,  I  visited  the  same  plant  on  a  WPI  student 
tour.  I  guess  fifty-one  years  between  visits  isn't 
overstaying  one's  welcome!" 


I93O 

Secretary:  Representative: 

Carl  W.  Backstrom  Carl  W  Backstrom 

1 13  Winifred  Ave. 
Worcester,  MA 
01602 

Dan  O'Grady  and  Carl  Backstrom  have  had  a 
home  and  home  golf  match  these  last  four  years. 
One  held  at  the  Worcester  Country  Club  and  the 
other  at  Woods  Hole  Country  Club  at  Falmouth, 
Mass.,  where  Dan  has  just  finished  his  term  as 
president  of  the  club.  Carl  continues  as  chairman 
of  the  Citations  Committee  at  WPI,  and  attends 
all  scheduled  meetings  as  secretary  of  the  class. 
Roscoe  Bowers  writes  that  he  has  retired  from 
the  Weyerhaeuser  Co.,  but  is  still  called  in  on 
special  assignments.  So  far  he  has  moved  16 
times  for  the  company  (Can  anybody  beat 
that?).  He  spends  his  summers  in  Vineland,  N.J. 
and  winters  in  Clearwater,  Florida.  Your  secre- 
tary had  a  very  nice  round  of  golf  with  him  last 
October  in  Marlton,  N.J.,  and  almost  had 
another  hole-in-one  with  him  —  only  4  inches 
away. 


John  Conley  now  retired,  lives  in  San  Diego, 
Calif.  John  has  joined  the  Lions  Club,  and  like  so 
many  retirees  works  as  club  treasurer,  sight 
conservation  chairman,  hearing  committee 
chairman,  and  budget  chairman.  This  just  leaves 
him  a  little  time  to  play  golf,  and  take  care  of  his 
yard.  He  plans  on  being  at  the  50th  reunion  in 
June. 

Ed  Delano  has  to  be  the  best  letter  writer  of 
the  class  and  is  keeping  us  informed.  He  is  still 
winning  senior  bike  races,  and  is  getting  in  shape 
for  that  3100  mile  jaunt  to  our  50th.  He  is 
planning  on  leaving  Davis,  California  on  May 
1st,  averaging  100  miles  per  day.  Since  his  bike 
was  totalled  in  a  truck  collision  last  year,  Ed  has 
ordered  a  new  custom-built  model  for  time  trials. 
"It's  the  talk  of  the  area, "he  says.  It  should  be.  It 
weighs  19  pounds  and  cost  $1300! 

Charlie  Fay  still  works  every  day,  but  not  eight 
hours  any  more.  He  now  has  three  grandchil- 
dren: 2  boys  and  1  girl.  He  is  looking  forward  to 
the  usual  get-together  at  his  house  after  the 
50th  in  June. 

Carm  Greco  writes  that  he  did  some  traveling 
this  past  summer  visiting  Amsterdam,  Brussels, 
Frankfort,  and  took  a  ride  on  the  Rhine.  Even 
though  sundaes  cost  $4.50  in  Frankfort,  living 
conditions  in  the  U.S.  surpass  foreign  countries, 
he  says.  He'll  see  us  all  at  the  50th. 

Robert  Hollick  reports  from  El  Cerrito,  Calif, 
that  he  retired  in  April  of  1978  from  the  Federal 
Power  Commission.  The  mandatory  retirement 
age  is  70.  Inspired  by  Ed  Delano,  Bob  has  bought 
a  bike,  but  uses  it  only  for  exercise,  not  transpor- 
tation to  our  50th.  Bob  has  lined  up  several 
relatives  that  he  will  visit  while  here  next  June  for 
the  50th. 

Jim  McLoughlin  recently  celebrated  his 
"happy  sixth  anniversay  retirement  from  North 
American  Philips  Controls  Corp.,  Inc."  His  cur- 
rent activities  include  serving  as  a  member  of  the 
board  of  directors  of  Fort  Nathan  Hale  Restora- 
tion Projects,  Inc. ;  treasurer  of  the  Citizens  Park 
Council;  and  library  volunteer  for  the  New 
Haven  (Conn.)  Colony  Historical  Society.  As  a 
hobby,  he  collects  vials  of  sand  from  U.S.  and 
island  beaches.  "We've  visited  39  so  far." 

Fred  Peters:  A  very  nice  letter  from  Fred 
informs  us  that  his  last  retirement  was  from 
Seton  Hall  University,  where  he  taught  man- 
agement. He  has  just  finished  writing  a  book  on 
book  publishing  which  will  be  published  in  1 980. 
He  was  recently  honored  by  Seton  Hall,  with  the 
first  edition  of  the  University's  "President's 
Medal"  —  Congratulations  Fred! 

He  still  lives  in  Springfield,  N.J.,  but  spends 
winters  in  Naples,  Florida.  He  is  also  planning  on 
being  at  the  50th. 

Carl  Backstrom:  Secretary. 


1931 


Secretary: 
Edward  J  Bayon 
45  Pleasant  St 
Holyoke,  MA 
01040 


Representative 
Oliver  R  Underhill,  Jr 
P.O.  Box  281 
Franconia.  NH 
03580 


Carl  Sage,  still  in  the  motel  business  in  Buellton, 
Calif.,  and  Mike  Sodano,  who  is  retired  and 
living  in  Scottsdale,  Arizona,  had  a  short  "reun- 
ion" in  July. 


1932 

Representative 
Howard  P.  Lekberg 
RFD  115  Main  St. 
East  Douglas,  MA 
01516 

Ted  Barks  has  retired  for  the  second  time  as 
director  of  operations  for  X-Rail  Systems,  Inc.  He 
is  now  living  in  a  new  home  in  Amherst,  Mass. 
. . .  Recently,  Bill  Reardon  was  elected  chairman 
of  the  Ellis  Hospital  board  of  managers  in 
Schenectady,  N.Y.  He  was  first  appointed  to  the 
board  in  1971 .  Until  World  War  II,  when  he 
served  as  a  lieutenant  commander  in  the  U.S. 
Naval  Reserve,  Reardon  worked  for  the  TVA. 
After  the  war,  he  joined  GE  in  real  estate  and 
construction  operations.  From  1966  to  1973, 
when  he  retired,  he  was  manager  of  engineering 
and  was  concerned  with  the  management  of 
new  facilities  for  GE  throughout  the  continental 
U.S.  He  is  a  registered,  professional  engineer,  a 
fellow  of  the  ASCE,  past  director  of  the  Building 
Research  Institute  of  the  National  Academy  of 
Sciences,  and  chairman  of  the  Senior  Elfuns 
Society  of  GE.  The  Reardons  have  two  children 
and  four  grandchildren. 


1933 


Secretary 

Sumner  B.  Sweetser 
100  Pine  Grove  Ave. 
Summit,  NJ 
07901 


Representative: 
Robert  E  Ferguson 
36  Lake  Ave. 
Leicester,  MA 
01524 


Presently,  the  Frank  Eatons,  Jr.,  reside  in  Port  St. 
Lucie,  Fla. . .  .  Albert  Glenn  of  Millbury,  Mass. 
writes  that  he  is  historian  of  the  Bay  Patriots 
Chapter  PHSA  (Pearl  Harbor  Survivor-Army), 
and  has  been  connected  with  American  Legion 
baseball,  the  New  England  Professional  Golfers 
Association,  and  New  England  AAU  track  and 
field.  He  continues  to  hunt  and  snowshoe. 


18/ The  Wl'l  Journal/  Winter  1980 


1936 


Secretary 

Harold  F.  Hennckson 

1406  Fox  Hill  Dr 

Sun  City  Center,  FL 

33570 


Representative 
Walter  G  Dahlstrom 
9  JewettTerr 
Worcester,  MA 
01605 


till  with  du  Pont,  Carleton  Borden  is  currently 
the  director  of  textile  fibers  in  Wilmington.  . .  . 
John  Wyman  has  been  promoted  to  resident 
manager  of  the  Maine  facility,  a  research  labora- 
tory of  the  Maine  DOT.  in  Pittsfield.  He  says, 
"I'm  doing  traffic  engineering  studies  using  elec- 
tronic data  collection  and  reduction  techniques. 
Expect  never  to  retire.  Work  too  much  fun!" 


1937 


Secretary; 
Richard  J  Lyman 
10  Hillcrest  Rd 

Medfield,  MA 
02052 


Representative 
Cordon  F  Crowther 
20  Bates  St. 
Hartford,  CT 
06114 


Recently,  William  Frawley  celebrated  forty 
years  of  service  with  Bell  Labs  in  North  Andover, 
Mass.  In  1 939,  he  joined  the  company  and  was 
responsible  for  submarine  cable  development 
and  the  development  of  a  method  for  laying 
communication  wire  from  airplanes.  He  was  also 
involved  with  mechnical  design  of  communica- 
tion equipment  for  the  Signal  Corps  and  other 
armed  forces  communication  development 
work.  In  1958,  he  became  responsible  for  me- 
chanical design  of  carrier  equipment.  Currently  a 
member  of  the  technical  staff,  he  now  deals  with 
the  physical  design  of  the  D3-D4  dataport  units 
and  the  MX2-L  lightwave  system  in  the  Digital 
Systems  Physical  Design  Department.  He  holds 
anMSEEfrom  WPI. 

Fran  Harvey  has  been  named  by  Gov.  King  to 
a  six-year  term  as  a  member  of  the  Mas- 
sachusetts Building  Code  Commission.  In 
November  he  received  a  Brotherhood  Award 
from  the  Worcester  Chapter  of  the  National 
Conference  of  Christians  and  Jews  as  the  repre- 
sentative of  the  Roman  Catholic  faith.  His  award 
was  presented  "for  your  consistent  contribu- 
tions, your  worthy  leadership,  and  your  unique 
ability  to  unite  forces  to  improve  the  quality  of 
life."  The  award,  in  the  form  of  a  plaque,  was 
presented  at  the  second  annual  awards  dinner  at 
Pleasant  Valley  Country  Club. 


1938 


Theodore  Andreopoulos  serves  as  a  contract 
engineer  at  Boeing  for  C.D.I.  Corp.  He  is  located 
in  Bellevue,  Washington.  .  .  .  Ernest  Gustafson 
presently  resides  in  Sun  City  Center,  Fla. 

Dr.  Arthur  Martell  of  Texas  A  &  M  University 
is  the  1 980  winner  of  the  American  Chemical 
Society  Award  for  distinguished  service  in  the 
advancement  of  inorganic  chemistry,  sponsored 
by  Mallinckrodt,  Inc.  Announcement  of  the 
$2000  award  was  made  at  the  Society's  national 
meeting  in  September. 

Prof.  Martell,  head  of  the  Texas  A  &  M 
Chemistry  Department,  is  being  recognized  for 
his  wide-ranging  contributions  to  inorganic 
chemistry,  as  researcher,  teacher,  and  author. 
His  major  research  interests  include  the  physical 
and  chemical  properties,  stabilities,  and  kinetics 
of  metal  chelate  compounds  in  solution,  and 
metal-catalyzed  biochemical  mechanisms.  As  a 
teacher,  he  has  supervised  some  40  PhD  stu- 
dents, many  of  whom  have  in  turn  become 
academic  researchers.  Two  of  his  books, 
Chemistry  of  the  Metal  Chelate  Compounds 
and  Inorganic  Sequestering  Agents,  are  classics, 
as  is  his  co-written  compilation  of  two  massive 
volumes  of  selected  and  critical  tables  of  stability 
constants.  He  has  written  or  co-authored  300 
scientific  papers  and  articles  on  his  research.  He 
founded  the  Vourna/  of  Coordination  Chemistry, 
and  is  editor  of  the  monograph,  "Coordination 
Chemistry." 

Dr.  Martell  has  a  PhD  from  NYU.  He  served  a 
year  as  an  instructor  at  WPI.  For  many  years  he 
was  a  professor  and  chemistry  department 
chairman  at  Clark  University.  From  1961  to 
1 966,  he  was  at  Illinois  Institute  of  Technology 
as  professor  and  chairman  of  the  chemistry 
department.  Since  1 966,  he  has  been  at  Texas  A 
&  M,  where  in  1973  he  was  named  Distin- 
guished Professor.  Among  his  honors  are  an 
honorary  doctorate  from  WPI,  an  honorary  life 
membership  in  the  New  York  Academy  of  Sci- 
ences, a  fellowship  in  the  American  Academy  of 
Arts  and  Sciences,  a  Guggenheim  Fellowship  at 
the  University  of  Zurich,  and  the  National  Sci- 
ence Foundation  Postdoctoral  Fellowship  at 
MIT.  He  belongs  to  Sigma  Xi  and  Phi  Lambda 
Upsilon. 

Dr.  Martell  will  receive  the  ACS  Award  for 
Distinguished  Service  in  the  advancement  of 
inorganic  chemistry  at  the  Society's  1 79th  na- 
tional meeting  in  Houston  next  March. 


1939 


Secretary 

Charles  H  Amidon,  Jr. 

636  Salisbury  St. 

Holden,  MA 

01520 


Representative: 
C  John  Lindegren,  Jr. 
21  Prospect  St 
Shrewsbury,  MA 
01545 


While  Edward  Dench  was  with  Raytheon  from 
1947  to  1978,  he  did  a  lot  of  things,  "some  even 
technical."  He  has  a  career  total  of  over  65 
patents  in  fluorescent  lighting,  computers,  color 
printing,  microwave  tubes  and  heating,  solid 
state,  and  ultrasonics.  He  holds  an  MSEE  from 
MIT,  and  at  one  time  was  at  Interchemical  Corp. 
He  was  cited  by  the  Office  of  Scientific  Research 
and  Development  for  technical  contributions  in 
World  War  II.  During  retirement,  he  enjoys  the 
warmth  of  Florida  and  the  Caribbean,  fishing, 
boating,  gardening,  gourmet  cooking,  sightsee- 
ing, and  swimming.  He  was  a  successful  national 
chairman  of  United  Way  at  Raytheon,  and  is  on 
the  board  of  a  local  company  he  helped  to  start. 
He  has  twin-daughter  housewives,  an  attorney 
son,  and  ten  grandchildren. 

Last  year,  Howard  Duchacek  retired  as  profes- 
sor emeritus  from  the  University  of  Vermont, 
following  thirty  years  of  service.  Previously,  he 
had  received  his  MSAE  from  Georgia  Tech,  had 
served  in  the  Navy,  taught  at  Norwich,  and 
worked  for  Perkins  Gear  in  Springfield,  Mass. 
Also,  he  had  been  at  Ohio  State,  Colorado  State, 
Oklahoma  State,  NASA,  GE,  and  the  Naval 
Research  Laboratory.  He  has  had  the  "wonder- 
ful experience"  of  teaching  young  people  in  the 
areas  of  thermal  science,  fluid  mechanics,  and 
aerodynamics.  Research  included  transient 
thermal  shock  induced  elastic-plastic  stress 
analysis.  The  Duchaceks  have  three  children: 
Lenora,  a  clothing  buyer;  Howard,  a  building 
contractor;  and  Janet,  a  bank  administrator. 
Hobbies  are  sailing  Lake  Champlain,  keeping  up 
with  the  kids,  and  maple  syrup  processing. 

Although  semi-retired,  George  Graham,  Jr.,  is 
still  active  with  his  own  business,  Warwick  Copy 
Products,  Inc.,  which  wholesales  a  line  of  copy 
papers.  Earlier,  he  was  with  St.  Regis  Paper, 
Oxford  Paper,  and  Glidden  Company.  While 
with  Johnson  and  Johnson,  he  did  research  in  the 
field  of  paper  and  received  seven  patents.  For- 
merly, he  worked  for  Rohm  and  Haas,  and 
served  as  a  staff  sergeant  in  the  Army.  He  and 
Helen  are  the  parents  of  Susan,  who  is  married, 
with  one  son;  George  III,  a  physicist;  Wendy, 
who  is  doing  graduate  work  at  Cornell;  and 
Alan,  who  has  a  master's  degree  from  Syracuse 
and  is  an  associate  programmer  at  IBM.  Pres- 
ently, Graham  is  secretary  treasurer  of  the  War- 
wick (N.Y.)  Chamber  of  Commerce.  His  "claim 
to  fame"  is  that  he  played  bridge  against  John 
Crawford,  when  he  was  the  world  champion. 
Wife  Helen  is  a  legal  secretary.  She  freezes  or 
preserves  all  Graham  grows  in  his  garden. 

Eugene  Gravlin  continues  with  Knapp  Shoe 
Company,  where  he  is  vice  president  of  the 
Safety  Shoe  Division  in  Industrial  Sales.  At  Knapp 
since  1964,  he  had  been  employed  by  Kennedy 
Printing,  Fuller  Brush,  Western  Auto,  and  H.  H. 
Brown.  During  World  War  II  he  was  a  major  in 
the  Army  Corps  of  Engineers.  Pat  is  29;  Paul,  27; 
and  Eileen,  23.  Ella  has  retired  from  Cardinal 
Cushing  Hospital,  where  she  was  a  night  nursing 
supervisor.  .  . .  Jacob  Hagopian  has  been  with 
IBM  for  27  years.  Before  that,  he  worked  for 
Northrop,  Goodyear,  Norton,  MIT,  and  the  U.S. 
Army.  Along  the  way,  he  picked  up  over  20 
patents  in  computer  data  storage  and  retrieval. 


Winter  1980/  The  WPI  journal/  19 


He  has  served  as  a  church  council  member, 
school  trustee,  a  fund  raiser  for  "high  causes," 
and  a  helper  in  election  campaigns.  The  Hago- 
pians  have  five  grown  children.  Their  grandson, 
Dana,  7,  is  the  focus  of  their  attention  now. 

Within  a  year  after  graduation,  John  Harvey, 
Jr.  became  a  sales  engineer  in  the  Boston  District 
Office  of  the  Allen-Bradley  Company  of  Mil- 
waukee, a  prominent  manufacturer  of  electric 
motor  controls  and  electronic  components.  The 
postturned  into  a  36-year  career  with  retirement 
a  couple  of  years  ago.  Currently,  he  is  a  consul- 
tant to  the  firm.  "Along  the  line,"  he  spent  four 
years  in  the  Navy,  married,  and  had  three 
daughters  and  two  grandchildren.  The  Harveys 
are  enjoying  retirement  living  on  the  Cape  with 
fresh  air,  sunshine,  and  boating. 

Carl  Hitchon  tries  to  keep  up  in  his  study  of 
French  and  German,  and  travels  as  much  as 
possible.  He  is  a  director  of  a  local  savings  bank. 
In  1959,  he  purchased  a  plantfrom  Glen  Woolen 
Mills,  a  former  employer,  and  formed  Glencairn 
Yarn  Mills  employing  about  fifty  workers  to 
make  knitting  yarn.  Prior  to  being  secretary  and 
executive  officer  at  Glen  Woolen  Mills,  Hitchon 
worked  for  American  Cyanamid  Co.  for  several 
years.  His  daughter,  Marilyn,  is  married  and  an 
interior  decorator.  His  son,  Carl,  Jr.,  serves  as  a 
mathematician  at  Softtechon.  The  light  of  his  life 
is  his  granddaughter,  Tory,  "who  is  very  much 
her  grandmother's  image." 

Along  with  Wally  Abel,  Johnny  Hollick,  and 
Dave  McEwan,  Don  Houser  joined  United  Shoe 
Machinery  (USM  Corporation),  now  part  of 
Emhart  Corporation,  following  graduation.  After 
serving  in  machine  design  and  armament  devel- 
opment, he  switched  in  favor  of  the  commercial 
side  of  the  business.  He  helped  USM  expand  into 
machinery  ventures  outside  of  the  shoe  industry, 
then  he  became  affiliated  with  the  International 
Division.  For  20  years,  he  has  been  involved  with 
USM'sBostik  Chemical  Group  and  living  out  of  a 
suitcase.  Presently,  he  is  vice  president  of  admin- 
istration, dividing  his  time  between  Mas- 
sachusetts and  Switzerland.  He  and  his  wife, 
Ethel,  a  fine  golfer,  have  two  sons:  Bob,  a  Boston 
lawyer  and  Scott,  "a  budding  insurance  under- 
writer." Ethel  is  busy  with  community  projects 
and  competitive  tennis.  The  Housers  like  skiing 
and  sailing  near  their  summer  cottage  in  New 
Hampshire. 

Harold  Humphrey,  Jr.,  writes  that  he  is  "now 
easing  into  retirement"  via  the  Research  De- 
partment at  the  Torrington  Company.  During  his 
long  career  at  Torrington,  a  subsidiary  of 
Ingersoll-Rand,  Humphrey  has  been  a  project 
engineer,  chief  tool  designer,  machine  designer, 
assistant  chief  mechanical  engineer,  and  chief 
mechanical  engineer  of  the  Needle  Division.  He 
has  five  daughters:  Joyce,  a  world-travelled  as- 
sistant lecturer;  Judith,  a  teacher  at  York  Univer- 
sity, Toronto;  Mary  Lou,  a  graduate  of  Endicott 
Junior  College  and  the  mother  of  two  daughters; 
Nancy,  a  free-lance  writer  and  mother;  and 
Kathryn,  an  LPN  and  ex-stewardess,  who  lives  at 
home.  All  have  attended  various  colleges.  Hum- 
phrey has  served  in  Harwinton,  Conn,  as  chair- 
man of  the  Zoning  Commission,  and  is  now 
chairman  of  the  Board  of  Finance.  He  is  chairman 
of  the  Central  Connecticut  Chapter  of  the  Soci- 
ety of  Manufacturing  Engineers,  a  National  Ski 


Patrolman,  and  was  the  Connecticut  State 
Champion  Equipped  Driver  (sports  car  road  ral- 
lyist)  for  two  years.  He  is  also  a  motorcyclist  and 
Porsche  enthusiast. . . .  David  Hunt,  who  was  an 
aeromechanics  elective  at  WPI,  with  great  hopes 
of  building  machinery  to  travel  through  the  air, 
has  instead  spent  his  entire  career  with  machines 
to  move  air  through  pipes.  "From  pipe  organ 
blowers  to  nuclear  power  plant  emergency 
exhaust  equipment,"  from  engineering  to  man- 
agement. Marge  and  he  have  enjoyed  traveling, 
much  of  the  time  on  WPI  alumni  trips. 

Bowling,  cards,  boating,  biking,  and  garden- 
ing are  favorite  pastimes  of  Roger  Iffland.  He 
likes  music,  especially  performances  of  the  Yale 
Glee  Club,  because  daughter  Julie  is  a  member. 
Joan  and  Nancy  graduated  from  Central  Con- 
necticut. David,  a  Bridgeport  alumnus,  is  a  ma- 
chine tool  programmer,  while  Peter  is  at  North- 
eastern. For  39  years,  Iffland  has  been  with  a 
hometown  company,  the  Torrington  (Conn.) 
Company.  He  has  served  as  night  supervisor, 
machine  designer,  machine  shop  superintend- 
ent, and  chief  design  engineer  to  the  chief  of 
mechanical  engineering.  The  Ifflands  have  nine 
grandchildren. .  .  .  R.  Adrien  Jacques,  now  with 
Concord  Machine  Tool  Co.  (importers  of 
Spanish-made  equipment),  spends  a  lot  of  time 
in  Michigan,  Illinois,  Ohio,  and  metropolitan 
New  York.  Previously,  he  had  been  with  Pelham 
Machinery,  Pratt  &  Whitney,  and  had  served  as 
president  of  Bailey  Tool  and  Supply,  Inc.,  and  as 
sales  engineer  at  Greenfield  Tap  &  Die.  During 
World  War  II,  he  served  in  the  Navy  aboard  the 
Carrier  "Wasp"  as  aviation  ordnance  officer  in 
major  Pacific  operations  until  V-J  Day.  He  has 
three  children  and  five  grandchildren.  Pete,  a 
Holy  Cross  graduate,  is  with  Abex  Corp.;  Ann 
and  her  brother,  Tim,  help  run  her  husband's 
industrial  painting  business.  Jacques'  wife,  Pat,  is 
director  of  sales  for  Pharmaceutical  Marketers 
Directory. 

After  a  short  stint  at  Draper  Corporation, 
Gleason  Jewett  spent  22  years  with  Wyman- 
Gordon,  and  eventually  moved  into  the  sales 
department  in  Texas.  In  1955,  he  was  named 
southwest  district  sales  manager.  Currently,  he  is 
technical  representative  for  Standard  Mfg.  Co.  in 
Dallas.  Although  he  has  worked  for  Petersen 
Mfg.  Co.  in  Nebraska,  and  Brantly-Hynes 
Helicopter,  Inc.,  in  Oklahoma,  the  Jewetts  "al- 
ways have  returned  to  Texas."  A  flight  instructor 
(CFI),  until  recently  Jewett  owned  an  airplane. 
Once  he  was  president  of  Sky  Haven,  Inc.,  a 
flight  school  and  Cessna  dealership  in  Nebraska. 
He  and  Marge,  one  of  the  five  top  in  the  nation 
in  her  age  group  in  the  AAU  Master's  Swimming 
Program,  have  two  sons  and  one  daughter.  Jack 
is  a  top  life  insurance  salesman;  Bob,  a  Delta 
Airlines  pilot;  and  Martha,  a  surgical  assistant. 
There  are  seven  Jewett  grandchildren. 

Samuel  Kaplan  says  he  "got  into  ecology 
before  it  became  fashionable."  After  working  for 
Harrington  Richardson  Arms,  Pratt  &  Whitney 
Aircraft,  Boston  Ordnance-Small  Arms  Branch, 
and  a  hitch  in  the  Air  Force,  he  became  con- 
cerned with  a  Vermont  logging  project.  Ecology 
became  important  to  him  when  he  went  into 
water  well  drilling  and  did  consulting  on  wells, 
water  systems,  and  water  treatment.  He  serves 
as  a  member  of  the  American  Arbitration  Associ- 


ation, and  is  called  on  as  a  professional  engineer 
and  state  witness  in  that  field.  His  "fun  and 
games"  is  solar  energy.  He  passed  a  course  at 
Hartford  Graduate  Center,  and  he  is  involved  in 
courses  for  geothermal  heat  pumps  using  well 
water  ("52  degree  temperature  range  con- 
stant") as  a  heat  source.  At  his  new  dream 
house,  he  has  a  backup  system  for  maintaining 
every  system,  including  heat  pumps.  With  his 
computer,  he  is  compiling  an  underground 
water  resou  rce  map  from  records  he  has  kept  for 
thirty  years.  Daughters  Nancy  and  Laura  are  in 
the  New  York  fashion  world. 

The  Carl  Keysers  have  "escaped"  from  Mas- 
sachusetts and  are  now  living  in  Rye  Beach, 
N.H.,  where  Carl  continues  with  his  writing. 
Over  the  years,  he  has  written  a  number  of 
textbooks,  two  of  which  were  translated  into 
Japanese  and  Spanish.  "Both  foreign  language 
editions  are  easier  to  understand  than  the  in- 
structions for  Form  1040,"  he  declares.  After 
mentioning  Keysers  Spare  None:  The  Federal 
Octopus  in  a  broadcast,  Harry  Reasoner  com- 
mented that  the  author  didn't  like  any  of  our 
20th  century  presidents.  Says  Carl,  "He  was 
wrong.  Cal  Coolidge  was  great!"  In  1968,  he 
retired  as  Commonwealth  Professor  Emeritus 
from  the  University  of  Massachusetts. . .  .  Fol- 
lowing an  eventful  World  War  II  with  the  Navy  in 
the  Midway,  South  Pacific,  and  Central  Pacific 
campaigns,  Ed  Kiem  returned  to  the  U.S.  and 
subsequent  five  command  jobs.  In  1 963,  he 
became  Captain,  USN  (ret.),  after  which  he 
joined  North  American  Aviation  forfouryears.  In 
1970,  he  earned  his  BA  in  math  ("It  took  me  35 
years!").  For  several  years,  he  taught  math,  until 
it  began  "interfering  with  my  golf  game."  Once 
again  retired,  he  enjoys  travel  and  checking  on 
his  family. 

Phyllis  and  John  Lancaster  hope  to  retire  on  a 
Grand  Banks  diesel  trawler  in  1981 ,  after  John's 
duties  as  assistant  director  of  the  National  Radio 
Astronomy  Observatory  and  as  manager  of  its 
$78  million  Very  Large  Array  Radio  Telescope 
Construction  Program  in  New  Mexico  are  con- 
cluded. They  plan  to  cruise  from  the  Virgin 
Islands  to  Canada.  They  have  built  a  home  on 
the  fourth  tee  of  the  Socorro,  N.M.  Golf  Course, 
where  golf  may  be  played  year  'round.  With 
their  five  daughters  educated  and  married,  they 
are  currently  enjoying  a  "near  second  honey- 
moon" in  the  beautiful  west.  Lancaster  was  the 
first  nongovernment  person  to  receive  the  Na- 
tional Science  Foundation  Medal  for  Meritorious 
Service.  He  has  been  listed  in  Who's  Who  in 
America. . . .  For  ten  years,  Leonard  Landall  has 
been  with  Thomas  A.  Buff  urn  Associates  of 
Boston  as  an  executive  search  consultant.  Earlier, 
he  was  with  Frank  C.  Brown  &  Co.,  Draper 
Corp.,  Gamewell  Co.,  Northeastern,  and  Ray- 
theon. Son  John,  71 ,  built  his  own  house  in 
Grafton.  Daughter  Nancy  is  with  an  electronics 
firm,  and  Norma  is  in  advertising.  They  are  twins 
and  graduates  of  URI.  Leonard  and  Ruth  have 
designed  and  built  a  home  in  Sandwich  with  a 
beautiful  view  of  Cape  Cod  Bay.  They  live  there 
12  months  a  year. 

Carl  Lewin  has  worked  for  the  Austin  Com- 
pany since  1 940.  He  spent  1 2  years  traveling  the 
world  coordinating  international  sales  activities. 
The  Lewins  expect  to  retire  in  Maine  in  a  few 


20 /The  WPI  journal /  Winter  1980 


years.  They  have  three  sons:  a  professor;  a 
commercial  pilot;  and  a  telecommunications  ex- 
pert. Daughter  Joan  is  a  homemakerand  school 
board  member.  The  Lewins,  who  have  nine 
grandchildren,  have  previously  been  involved 
with  scouting  and  fund  raising. ...  At  the  end  of 
World  War  II,  Carl  Lindegren,  Jr.,  was  dis- 
charged with  the  rank  of  Lt.  Commander,  USN. 
He  then  started  a  sales  engineering  business  with 
his  father,  which  involved  selling  hydraulic, 
pneumatic,  and  mechanical  components  in  the 
New  England  area.  "Have  an  inside  and  outside 
sales  staff  of  1 6  people,  and  enjoy  the  business 
immensely."  There  are  four  Lindegren  girls  (in- 
cluding twins),  and  a  son,  who  is  a  student  at 
WPI.  The  family  has  been  active  in  ski  racing, 
with  Lindegren  once  serving  as  president  of  the 
local  racing  team.  They  also  race  sailboats,  and 
Lindegren  has  been  commodore  of  the  Stage 
Harbor  Yacht  Club  in  Chatham,  Mass.  Their 
daughter,  Debbie,  was  runner-up  in  the  Wom- 
en's National  Sailing  Championship  in  1977. 
Lindegren  is  a  current  member  of  the  WPI 
Alumni  Board.  He  has  served  on  the  Shrewsbury 
Industrial  Development  Commission,  and  as 
chairman  of  the  board  at  Fairlawn  Hospital  in 
Worcester. 

In  1977,  Walter  Longnecker semi-retired  from 
Gould,  Inc.,  as  vice  president-international.  After 
a  two-year  stint  as  a  consultant,  he  is  now 
completely  retired.  He  had  joined  Gould  in  1969 
when  the  company  he  was  with  merged  with 
Gould  and  "saw  an  exciting  growth  record  from 
sales  of  $300  million  to  $1 .8  billion  in  ten  years." 
Earlier  he  had  been  employed  at  Morgan  Con- 
struction for  two  years  and  U.S.  Steel  for  26. 
Walter  and  his  wife  are  living  the  "good  life"  in 
Hilton  Head  Island,  S.C.,  and  "now  watch  the 
enthusiastic  development  of  eight  grandchil- 
dren". .  .  Currently,  William  Lyhne,  Jr.,  is 
assistant  director  of  Executive  Compensation 
Services  of  American  Management  Associations, 
New  York  City.  Previously,  he  was  with  Lone 
Star  Industries,  Handy  and  Harmon,  and 
Bridgeport  Brass  Co.,  where  he  was  employed 
for  25  years.  He  has  nine  daughters,  three  sons, 
and  eleven  grandchildren.  Recently,  he  finished 
a  term  as  president  of  the  Board  of  Associates  at 
the  University  of  Bridgeport. 

The  Arthur  Mallons  of  Alexandria,  Va.  live  on 
10,000  square  feet  of  George  Washington's 
former  pig  farm,  and  "Helen  spends  some  of  her 
time  helping  tourists  spend  money  at  the  Mt. 
Vernon  Gift  Shop."  A  baseball  fan,  Mallon  has 
been  in  nearly  every  big  league  city  in  47  states. 
In  mid-career,  he  spent  18  years  teaching  at 
Missouri  School  of  Mines,  Wentworth,  Mer- 
rimack, and  Tufts.  Another  third  of  his  career 
was  in  private  employment  and  engineering 
practice;  and  the  remaining  third  has  been  in 
government  employment,  the  last  ten  years 
being  spent  in  the  Construction  Grants  Program 
of  the  EPA.  The  Mallons  have  four  girls,  two 
boys,  and  five  grandchildren  "with  two  dozen 
degrees  and  professional  registrations  among 
us." 

With  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  since  gradua- 
tion, Robert  Martin  is  presently  with  the  firm  in 
Belgium  as  head  of  engineering  work  with  the 
European  companies,  who  are  coproducing  the 
F-100  engine  for  the  F-16  fighter.  He  is  looking 


forward  to  returning  home  and  retirement.  He 
has  three  children  and  four  grandchildren.  Be- 
fore going  to  Brussels,  he  served  two  terms  on 
the  town  council  in  North  Palm  Beach,  Fla.  He 
and  his  wife,  "Mart,"  bowl.  ("She  does  better 
than  I!")  He  also  plays  some  tennis.  . . .  Continu- 
ing with  Blake  &  Johnson  Company,  Dave  Mc- 
Ewan  is  now  headquartered  in  Beaufort,  S.C. 

Robert  Mirick  writes  that  he  retired  in  1972 
and  thinks  "there  is  nothing  to  beat  it."  He  had 
been  president  of  Sanitary  Farm  Dairies,  Inc. 
(milk  and  ice  cream)  in  Minnesota  and  Iowa. 
Earlier,  he  was  in  the  Naval  Reserve,  and  had 
worked  for  the  Pillsbury  Company.  He  is  a 
registered  professional  engineer  in  Minnesota 
and  a  master  electrician.  A  former  president  of 
the  North  Central  Milk  and  Ice  Cream  Associa- 
tion, Mirick  has  also  served  as  a  board  member 
of  the  National  Dairy  Council,  the  Engineers' 
club  of  Minneapolis,  the  local  Methodist  Church, 
and  the  Audubon  Society.  He  was  chairman  of 
the  board  of  the  Ramesy  County  Historical  Soci- 
ety; treasurer  of  the  Society  of  Mayflower  De- 
scendants (Minn.),  and  chairman  of  the  board  of 
governors  of  the  Shriner  Hospital  for  Crippled 
Children  (Twin  City  unit).  The  Miricks  have  two 
sons  and  like  to  go  motor  home  camping. .  . . 
Over  the  years,  Robert  Murphy  has  worked  at 
Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  in  plant  engineering 
and  at  Westinghouse,  Murphy  Air  Engineering 
and  Automatic  Refrigerating  Co.  Though  semi- 
retired,  he  still  works  part  time  as  a  consultant 
and  manufacturer  of  an  air  pollution  control 
device  for  industry  called  the  "Oil  Mistress."  He 
was  widowed  several  years  ago,  and  recently 
married  Marilyn,  a  psychologist.  They  commute 
between  Wayne,  N.J.  and  Westerly,  R.I.,  "half  of 
the  time."  Murphy's  hobbies  are  power  boating 
and  "criticizing  the  bureaucracy."  He  has  two 
married  children. 

Also  enjoying  early  retirement,  is  John  New- 
ton, who  lives  in  Brunswick,  Me.  "These  are  the 
best  years,  with  our  home  on  the  coast  of  Maine, 
children  and  grandchildren  within  visiting  range, 
and  our  youngest  daughter  in  high  school."  For 
years,  he  had  worked  for  American  Steel  &  Wire 
in  Worcester.  Both  he  and  his  wife  Evelyn  were 
"local  actors,"  with  Evelyn  also  working  as  an  art 
teacher.  Newton's  earliest  posts  were  at  Stone  & 
Webster,  the  Norfolk  Navy  Yard,  and  New  En- 
gland Power  in  Providence.  .  .  .  Most  of  Albert 
Nims'  career  has  been  associated  with  airborne 
Air  Force  radar  systems  at  Westinghouse  in 
Baltimore,  Md.  His  wife,  Betty,  weaves,  and  he 
has  designed  and  built  several  looms  for  her. 
They  enjoy  travel,  have  two  daughters,  and  a 
"No.  3"  daughter  in  Norway,  who  lived  with 
them  for  a  year  through  the  American  Field 
Service.  They  have  visited  "No.  3"  in  Norway. 
Their  own  daughters  are  nurses,  one  being  a 
former  Army  captain,  and  the  other  a  former 
Navy  lieutenant.  "The  older  one  has  provided  us 
with  two  grandsons." 

Presently,  Elmer  Nutting  serves  as  design  en- 
gineer in  Smith  &  Wesson's  new  sporting  prod- 
ucts division.  He  had  served  25  years  with  Noble 
Mfg.  Co.,  which  he  left  as  vice  president.  During 
World  War  II,  he  worked  for  Savage  Arms.  Wife 
Doris  is  director  of  Volunteer  Services  at  Cooley 
Dickinson  Hospital,  Northampton,  Mass.  Son 
Radley  owns  a  six-man  foreign  car  repair  shop, 


and  Susan  co-owns  vintage  clothing  shops  in 
Colorado.  The  Nuttings  have  three  grandchil- 
dren. They  like  traveling  and  tandem  bike  riding. 
A  21  -year  deacon  of  his  church,  Elmer  has  also 
been  town  moderator,  a  member  of  the  water 
commission  board,  the  finance  committee,  and 
the  Industrial  Development  Financing  Authority. 
The  Newcomen  Society  is  another  interest. 

After  thirty  years  at  Heald  Machine,  Worces- 
ter, Bradford  Ordway  retired  in  1969.  "Ain't 
done  nothing"  since.  He  and  Dot  have  a  son, 
Craig,  an  orthopedic  surgeon  and  chief  of 
trauma  at  Nassau  County  Medical  Center  on 
Long  Island.  They  have  a  granddaughter  and  a 
grandson.  For  twenty  years,  Ordway  was  mod- 
erator and  sometimes  selectman  in  Holland, 
Mass.,  with  Dot  being  chairman  of  the  school 
board  for  ten  years.  Currently,  the  Ordways  ski 
one  third  of  the  year,  spend  the  second  third  at 
their  Vermont  house,  and  the  last  third,  travel- 
ing. They  have  driven  from  Bangkok  to  Singa- 
pore, through  the  Australian  outback,  across  the 
Yucatan  Peninsula,  and  around  Patagonia  and 
the  southern  tip  of  South  America. 

John  Peavey,  although  looking  to  a  1 980 
retirement,  in  Hendersonville,  N.C.,  is  now  a 
chemical  process  engineer  at  American 
Cyanamid,  where  he  has  been  since  1964.  Ear- 
lier, he  was  with  John  H.  Breck  Company  and 
AG.  Spaulding.  In  1975,  he  retired  as  Lt.  Col- 
onel, Ordnance,  after  23  years  in  the  active 
Army  Reserves.  His  wife,  Ann,  has  been  a 
member  of  the  Westfield  School  Committee, 
and  former  co-manager  of  the  Westfield  State 
College  Bookstore.  Son  William  graduated  from 
Colgate  and  Harvard  and  is  in  the  industrial- 
residential  carpet  cleaning  business.  He  is  mar- 
ried and  has  a  daughter.  Michael,  a  Duke 
graduate,  is  a  lawyer  and  also  married.  Louise 
graduated  from  Mount  Holyoke  and  UMass,  is  a 
Latin  and  English  teacher,  and  has  a  husband 
and  a  daughter.  Charles  graduated  from  Prince- 
ton and  Stanford  and  is  with  McDonnell  Douglas 
Aircraft.  Peavey  raises  exotic  house  plants, 
makes  Chinese  furniture,  and  collects  tools. 

Still  with  Fraser  Paper  in  Maine,  Art  Rand  has, 
during  his  career  at  Fraser,  worked  in  the  paper 
mill  laboratory  and  served  as  a  technical  sales 
service  representative,  and  as  head  of  the  service 
group.  He  has  also  done  research.  Currently,  he 
is  director  of  environmental  protection. . . . 
Robert  Steele,  until  his  retirement  in  1976,  was 
employed  by  du  Pont,  primarily  at  the  Niagara 
Falls  plant.  At  retirement,  he  was  engineering 
services  superintendent.  During  his  last  five 
years,  he  was  in  the  Employee  Relations  Division 
developing  a  simplified  wage  structure  and  han- 
dling employee  relations  problems.  Since  retir- 
ing, Steele  has  been  a  part-time  consultant.  He  is 
a  professional  engineer  in  New  York  and  Ohio. 
He  has  served  as  president  of  the  Niagara 
County  chapter  and  as  director  of  the  New  York 
State  Society  of  Professional  Engineers;  as  direc- 
tor of  the  Engineering  Society  of  Buffalo;  and  as 
president  of  the  Technical  Societies  Council  of 
Western  New  York.  He  has  been  a  church 
trustee,  Sunday  School  superintendent,  and  fi- 
nancial campaign  chairman.  He  is  a  Mason. 
Editor's  note:  Steele's  son,  Bob,  was  a  good 
friend  of  mine  in  high  school. 


Winter  1980 /The  WPI  Journal/ 21 


Before  retiring  in  1966,  Frans  Strandberg  con- 
cluded his  career  as  a  civilian  engineer  with  the 
Navy,  as  director  of  construction  of  the  Atlantic 
Underseas  Test  and  Evaluation  Center  on  An- 
dros  Island,  Bahamas.  He  did  a  stint  with  the 
Army's  Anti-Missile  Program  in  the  1960's,  serv- 
ing on  the  team  that  selected  the  Sprint  Missile 
for  development.  He  spent  four  years  at 
Thompson  Wire,  Worcester  and  in  active  duty  in 
the  Navy.  Presently,  Strandberg  is  an  officer  of 
the  Dartmouth  National  Bank,  Hanover,  N.H. 
Since  retirement,  he's  also  been  a  church  ad- 
ministrator, village  engineer,  and  a  con- 
dominium construction  project  manager.  He  is 
now  elder  of  the  local  Lutheran  Church  in  En- 
field, N.H.,  and  has  served  on  the  town  hall 
renovation  committee.  Wife  Elsie  chairs  the 
church  Social  Ministry  Committee,  sings  in  the 
choir,  is  secretary-treasurer  of  the  area  Ecumeni- 
cal Council,  and  delivers  Meals  on  Wheels. 

Ernest  Sykes,  who  taught  engineering  draw- 
ing at  WPI  after  serving  in  World  War  II,  worked 
on  the  construction  of  two  churches  near  cam- 
pus. Later,  he  worked  for  General  Electric  Realty 
Corp.,  on  construction  management  needs  at 
Appliance  Park,  Louisville,  Ky.,  and  the  Atomic 
PowerLab.,  in  Pleasanton,  Calif.,  among  others. 
Since  1961,  he's  been  in  plant  engineering  atthe 
Lawrence  Radiation  Lab.  in  Berkeley,  Calif.,  the 
site  of  the  original  "atom  smasher."  He's  been 
concerned  with  problems  of  stable  foundations 
and  earthquake-resistant  restraints,  so  has  be- 
come the  "in-house"  expert  at  "rebuilding  the 
variety  of  landslides  that  plague  us  (on  campus) 
each  winter  rainy  season."  In  1974,  he  and  his 
wife  served  as  Volunteers  In  Service  to  America 
in  the  economically  depressed  area  of  northern 
New  Mexico.  .  .  .  For  over  thirty  years,  Cordon 
Thompson  has  been  a  design  engineer  at  G.F. 
Wright  Steel  &  Wire  Co.,  designing  extremely 
fast  wire  weaving  looms  and  processes.  Early  in 
his  career,  he  was  with  Eastern  Bridge  Co.  and 
Fiske  Carter  Construction  Co.  The  Thompsons, 
who  live  in  Worcester,  have  two  sons  and  two 
grandsons.  "We  are  proud  grandparents." 

Soon,  William  Wadsworth  expects  to  retire 
from  WPI  to  his  1 300  acres  of  forest  land  in  New 
Hampshire,  where  he  plans  to  continue  his  re- 
search and  consulting  in  acoustics  and  finish  up 
some  of  his  writing.  He  received  his  MS  from 
WPI  in  1941 ,  and  then  joined  the  electrical 
engineering  department.  "Have  been  at  WPI 
ever  since."  In  1957,  he  became  a  full  professor. 
Since  1953,  he  has  directed  the  WPI  Acoustics 
Laboratory,  along  with  teaching.  The  lab  devel- 
oped hearing  protectors  and  communications 
systems  for  use  in  high  level  noise  fields  pro- 
duced by  jet  aircraft.  These  developments  led  to 
five  U.S.  patents,  the  royalties  of  which  helped 
support  the  laboratory.  Wadsworth  served  on 
the  National  Research  Council  committee  on 
helmets,  and  he  belongs  to  IEEE,  the  Acoustical 
Society  of  America,  Audio  Engineering  Society, 
and  Sigma  Xi.  Besides  being  listed  in  Who's 
Who,  he  has  been  honored  with  the  Worcester 
Engineering  Society  Award  for  Scientific 
Achievement.  For  "diversion"  he  coached  the 
WPI  tennis  team  for  ten  years. 


Fred  Webster,  who  spent  24  years  teaching 
mechanical  engineering  at  WPI,  is  enjoying  re- 
tirement in  Princeton,  Mass.  He  and  his  wife, 
Ruth,  travel  to  New  Hampshire  summers  and  to 
Wyoming  and  Vermont  to  see  their  grandchil- 
dren. Sometimes  they  go  abroad.  Fred  has  sev- 
eral hobbies.  Ruth  paints,  weaves,  and  serves  as 
a  library  trustee.  During  part  of  their  thirty  years 
in  Princeton,  Fred  has  had  a  term  on  the  school 
committee  and  three  terms  on  the  advisory 
board.  .  .  .  Presently,  Robert  West  is  manager  of 
product  research  at  Stanley  Tools,  where  he 
previously  was  director  of  product  engineering. 
He  has  been  at  Stanley  for  22  years.  Earlier  he 
was  with  Thayer  Scale  Co.,  Towle  Mfg.  Co.,  the 
Navy,  and  Heald  Machine,  among  others.  He 
holds  38  patents  on  hand  tools  such  as  tape 
rules,  hammers,  and  levels.  One  of  his  most 
important  is  the  basic  patent  for  the  Powerlock 
rule  line,  the  biggest-selling  rules  in  the  world. 
Daughter  Karen  is  married  and  the  mother  of 
Jennifer,  3.  Son  Lee  is  a  civil  engineer.  West  has 
been  active  in  church  work  and  scouting.  His 
wife  continues  as  a  part-time  nurse.  Activities 
include  woodworking,  hiking,  and  travel. 

Harold  White,  now  back  in  the  U.S.  with 
Norton,  recently  returned  from  a  seven-year 
stint  for  the  firm  in  England.  He  has  been  at 
Norton  for  33  years.  He  had  worked  for  GE  and 
the  Factory  Insurance  Association  earlier.  "I  was 
once  too  long  in  India  and  China  with  the  U.S. 
Air  Force."  (Captain)  Hobbies  include  antiques, 
woodworking  tools,  and  American  clock  collect- 
ing. He  likes  to  repair  clocks  and  travel.  "We 
have  been  throughout  Europe,  Asia  Minor  and 
Africa,  but  our  favorite  spot  is  Cape  Porpoise, 
Me.,  for  family  gatherings."  The  Whites  have 
three  children :  Patricia,  a  project  manager  at 
Ginn  &  Co.;  David,  a  physiotherapist;  and 
Catherine,  a  sales  administrator;  plus  four 
grandchildren.  Last  summer  the  Whites  at- 
tended the  Queen's  Lawn  Party  at  Buckingham 
Palace. 

George  Yule,  who  owns  the  family  business, 
Leominster  (Mass.)  Granite  &  Marble,  and  has 
run  it  since  1 946,  previously  had  worked  for  du 
Pont  and  Worcester  Gas.  The  Yules  have  four 
married  daughters  and  four  grandchildren.  Two 
of  the  daughters  have  nursing  degrees  and  two 
have  degrees  in  education.  Their  son  Robert  is  a 
WPI  senior,  and  was  captain  of  the  football  team 
for  two  years.  (Also,  he's  on  the  varsity 
heavyweight  eight  in  crew.)  Yule  is  a  Past  Master 
of  the  Masonic  Lodge,  and  a  Past  Exalted  Ruler 
of  the  Leominster  Lodge  of  Elks. 


After  20  years  in  aerospace,  Dick  Wilson 
continues  in  facilities  engineering  and  adminis- 
tration for  the  Long  Beach  (Calif.)  Schools,  a  post 
he  enjoys  and  has  held  for  over  seven  years.  He  is 
president  of  the  local  Rotary  Club.  He  and  Mae 
attended  the  Rotary  International  Convention  in 
Rome  in  June.  Also,  he  is  serving  on  the  Regional 
Policy  Board  and  on  a  national  committee  of  the 
ASME.  He  has  been  active  in  neighborhood 
associations,  and  has  served  as  a  school  board 
trustee,  scoutmaster,  United  Fund  chairman, 
City  Master  Plan  committeeman,  and  church 
treasurer.  He  founded  San  Clemente  Canyon 
Park  in  San  Diego.  The  Wilsons'  daughter, 
Kathy,  graduated  from  Berkeley  and  is  an  artist. 
Keith  is  an  ME  and  project  engineer,  who  has 
three  daughters;  Shelley  is  married  and  living  in 
Norway;  Ken,  a  former  Rotary  Youth  Ambassa- 
dor to  England,  is  at  Brigham  Young  University. 
Wilson  hobbies  are  jogging,  back  packing, 
swimming,  and  conservation. 


1940 


Secretary 

Robert  E  Dunklee,  Jr. 

Rocky  Hill  Rd 

North  Scituate,  Rl 

02857 


Representative 
Russell  A.  Lovell,  Jr 
Jonathan  Lane 
Sandwich,  MA 
02563 


Everett  Smith,  who  is  retired  from  U.S.  Steel 
Corp.,  Electrical  Cable  Division,  spends  much  of 
the  year  in  Fort  Myers,  Fla. . .  .  Since  last  Jan.  2, 
Dr.  Michael  Wales  has  been  senior  research 
scientist  at  ABCOR,  Inc.,  in  Wilmington,  Mass. 
He  retired  from  Shell  Development  Co.,  Hous- 
ton, Texas,  in  December  of  1978. 


1 941 

Secretary 
Russell  W  Parks 
7250  Brill  Rd 
Cincinnati,  OH 
45243 

In  October,  William  Simmons,  chairman  of  the 
Sino  American  Cooperative  Organization 
(SACO),  led  a  group  of  100  former  U.S.  Naval 
Group  China  World  War  II  veterans  and  their 
wives  on  a  two-week  visit  to  Free  China  in 
Taiwan.  The  group,  as  guests  of  the  government 
of  Free  China,  visited  in  the  Republic  of  China 
and  observed  progress  of  the  ten  great  projects 
being  implemented  to  modernize  and  industri- 
alize the  Republic.  Meetings  with  top  govern- 
ment officials  and  industrial  leaders  were  part  of 
the  agenda.  SACO  is  an  organization  devoted  to 
friendship  and  continued  contact  with  the 
Chinese  Ministry  of  National  Defense  in  the 
Republic  of  China.  (Simmons  is  president  of  W. 
P.  Simmons  Company,  Inc.,  in  San  Rafael,  Calif.) 


22 /The  WPI  Journal/  Winter  1980 


1942 

Representative 
Norman  A  Wilson 
17  Cranbrook  Dr. 
Holden,  MA 
01520 

Donald  Packard  has  joined  Jahn  Foundry  in 
Springfield,  Mass. 


1943 

Representative 
Robert  S  Schedin 
RFD#1 

Brookfield,  MA 
01506 

Dr.  Arthur  Lindroos,  still  with  Penick  Corpora- 
tion, is  now  associate  manager  of  engineering  in 
Lyndhurst,  N.J. 


1944 


Secretary: 

John  C.  Underhill 

6706  Barkworth  Dr. 

Dallas.  TX 

75248 


Representative 
John  A.  Bjork 
1 1  Tylee  Ave 
Worcester,  MA 
01605 


Recently,  Alan  Gault  returned  from  a  two-year 
stay  in  Jordan,  where  he  supervised  the  con- 
struction of  a  new  airfield  for  the  Jordanian 
government. 


1945 


Representative 

Robert  E.  Scott 

Allendale  Mutual  Insurance  Co. 

PO  Box  7500 

Johnstown,  Rl 

02919 

Robert  Chaplick  says,  "After  thirty  years  with 
the  federal  government,  I  have  retired."  He  had 
been  an  aerospace  technologist  at  NASA's  God- 

dard  Space  Flight  Center,  Greenbelt,  Md 

Howard  Gerring  has  become  affiliated  with 
Winslow-Smith  Associates  in  Westport,  Conn., 
where  he  is  a  senior  associate.  The  firm  handles 
professional  placements.  Gerring's  area  includes 
manufacturing  and  manufacturing  support  pro- 
fessionals, as  well  as  engineering  and  technical 
support.  He  is  chiefly  concerned  with  place- 
ments in  Connecticut,  Westchester  County,  and 
New  York  City. 


1946 

Secretaries: 

M.  Daniel  Lacedonia 

106  Ridge  Rd 

East  Longmeadow,  MA 

01028 

George  H  Conley,  Jr 
213  Stevens  Dr 
Pittsburgh,  PA 
15236 

Nestor  Brown  has  been  named  manager  of 
engineering  evaluation  services  for  Carrier's  Ma- 
chinery and  Systems  Division.  He  is  a  former 
manager  of  air  systems  engineering  services,  and 
has  had  extensive  experience  in  the  design  and 
development  of  HVAC  equipment.  Since  1962, 
he  has  been  a  member  of  ASHRAE.  .  .  .  John 
Osborn  has  been  named  superintendent  of  in- 
spection at  the  Bay  City  (Mich.)  Chevrolet  plant. 
He  joined  General  Motors  in  1953,  and  prior  to 
his  most  recent  promotion,  was  superintendent 
of  inspection  at  Chevrolet  Grey  Iron,  a  post  he 
had  held  since  1971. 


1947 

Representative: 

Allan  Clazer 

20  Monadnock  Dr. 

Shrewsbury,  MA 

01545 

Norman  Feldman,  vice  president  of  corporate 
manufacturing  service  at  Honeywell,  Inc. ,  has 
forwarded  the  information  that  former  WPI 
President  (and  Admiral)  Wat  Tyler  Cluverius  was 
aboard  the  U.S.S.  Maine  when  it  was  sinking  in 
Havana  Harbor,  Cuba,  in  1898.  He  came  across 
the  information  in  a  review  in  the  Naval  Institute 
"Proceedings"  on  a  book  by  Admiral  Rickover 
titled  How  the  Battleship  Maine  was  Destroyed. 
At  the  time  of  the  sinking,  Admiral  Cluverius  was 
a  naval  cadet.  Later,  in  court,  his  testimony  was 
used  because  "his  observations  were  amazingly 
perceptive."  Page  117  states,  "Thus,  the  obser- 
vations made  by  Cadet  Cluverius  appear  to 
describe  the  sounds  and  motions  to  be  expected 
from  an  internal  burst." 


I948 


Secretary: 
Paul  E  Evans 
69ClairmontSt 
Longmeadow,  MA 
01106 


Representative: 
John  J  Concordia 
16  Summer  St 
Shrewsbury,  MA 
01545 


Paul  Holden  continues  with  Westinghouse  and 
is  manager  of  the  engineering  department  for 
Gas  Turbines  at  the  South  Philadelphia  plant. 
Paul's  son,  Carl,  graduated  with  high  distinction 
in  architecture  from  Penn  State  last  year.  Not 
long  ago,  Carl  spent  a  semester  abroad  studying 
European  architecture. 


1949 


Secretary: 
Howard  I.  Green 
1  Kenilworth  Rd 
Worcester,  MA 
01602 


Representative 
Sidney  Madwed 
21 5  Crest  Terrace 
Fairfield,  CT 
06432 


In  May,  Thomas  Bamf ord  was  appointed  corpo- 
rate vice  president  of  research  and  development 
at  FMC  Corp.,  Chicago,  III.  For  the  past  five 
years,  he  has  been  president  of  Bamford  As- 
sociates, Boston,  a  technology  consulting  firm  he 
formed  following  over  twenty  years  with  Arthur 
D.  Little,  Inc.  .  .  .  Fred  Brennan,  the  ITT 
Aerospace-Optical  Division  director  of  business 
development,  has  been  elected  vice  president. 
He  is  responsible  for  planning,  directing  and 
coordinating  all  business  development  activities 
for  the  division,  including  marketing,  advanced 
programs,  advertising,  and  business  planning. 
Earlier,  he  was  director  of  marketing  at  ITT 
Gilfillan,  Van  Nuys,  Calif.,  and  had  fifteen  years 
of  marketing  experience  with  Singer-Kearfott. 

Currently,  Feecon  Corp.  Westboro,  Mass., 
owned  and  operated  by  Jim  O'Regan  and  John 
Gagliardo,  '46,  is  the  major  supplier  of  equip- 
ment for  airport  crash  fire  trucks  for  the  U.S.  Air 
Force  and  the  Navy.  In  1975,  the  company 
became  part  of  the  Philadelphia  Suburban 
Group.  From  1949  to  1968,  O'Regan  was  with 
Rockwood  Sprinkler  (and  successors)  until  it 
moved  to  Maine.  The  O'Regans  have  a  married 
son  and  daughter,  and  a  son  and  daughter  in 
college.  Mary  and  he  enjoy  golf,  and  their 
grandsons. 

Estelle  and  James  Peepas  have  four 
daughters:  Valerie  Ann,  who  is  married  and  is  a 
graduate  of  the  Cincinnati  Conservatory  of 
Music;  Chrisanne,  a  graduate  of  Westminster 
College  and  an  employee  of  Clark  Equipment  in 
the  management  training  program;  Diane,  an 
acting  major  at  Bennington  College;  and 
Stephanie,  a  marketing  major  at  the  University 
of  Bridgeport.  Peepas  is  president  of  Selecto- 
Flash,  Inc.,  West  Orange,  N.J.,  with  manufactur- 
ing facilities  and  warehouses  throughout  the 
world .  Estelle  loves  to  golf  and  Peepas  has  taken 
up  fishing  "in  my  old  age.". . .  Hugh  Robinson  is 
cautious  around  his  750  BMW  motorcycle  these 
days.  Last  fall,  he  spent  forty  days  in  traction  and 
weeks  more  in  a  leg  cast  following  an  accident 
that  broke  his  knee.  He  and  Doris  travel  in  their 
mini-motorhome  and  square  dance.  Their  son 
Glenn  is  married  and  lives  in  Truckee,  Calif.; 
Rachel  is  at  California  Polytechnic  State  Univer- 
sity. They  have  a  grandchild.  For  16  years, 
Robinson  has  been  with  Raychem  in  Sunnyvale, 
Calif.  He  is  western  region  sales  manager  re- 
sponsible for  half  the  U.S.  for  the  Chemelex 
Division.  He  is  involved  with  corrosion  preven- 
tion products  for  underground  and  underwater 
pipelines. 


Winter  1980 /The  WPI  Journal/ 23 


Joe  Skidmore  is  still  a  sales  engineer  for  Armco 
Steel.  His  wife  is  a  pediatric  nurse  (RN).  His  son  is 
a  school  teacher  in  Seattle  and  his  daughter  is  a 
student  at  Central  Washington  University.  The 
family  backpacks,  golfs,  and  plays  tennis.  Joe 

likes  photography Robert  Smith  has  his  own 

consulting  practice  in  Eugene,  Oregon  after 
nearly  24  years  with  Westinghouse.  He  is  doing 
largely  industrial  work,  with  "as  little  commercial 
design  as  possible. ' '  Amy  is  a  student  at  the 
University  of  Oregon  right  at  "the  bottom  of  the 
hill."  Carol  and  he  are  enjoying  peace  and  quiet 
around  the  house  and  their  yard  and  garden. 

Alfred  Strogoff  continues  as  president  and 
chief  executive  officer  of  International  Foodser- 
vice Corp.  in  California.  Previously,  he  had  been 
with  Sun  Chemical  Company,  as  vice  president 
and  managed  Standard  Kollsman,  a  Sun  sub- 
sidiary. He  also  had  been  president  of  a  Litton 
education  group.  For  2 1  years,  he  was  with  Adler 
Electronics,  where  he  rose  to  executive  vice 
president.  "My  WPI  background  helped  prepare 
me  well  for  my  career  changes."  The  Strogoffs 
have  five  children:  Jody,  a  reporter;  Nancy,  an 
editor;  Michael,  a  graduate  student  in  architec- 
ture; and  Lauren  and  Jimmy,  college  students. .  . 
Most  recently,  Wallace  Thompson  has  been 
involved  with  technology  transfer  and  licensing 
atdu  Pont  in  Wilmington,  Del.,  where  he's  been 
since  1 950.  Now  that  his  three  sons  have  their 
bachelor's  degrees  and  have  left  home,  his  wife 
is  planning  "grand  additions  and  improvements 
to  our  house,  despite  its  proven  adequacy." 
They  like  tennis  and  golf,  and  belong  to  some 
community  organizations. 

Since  graduation,  Robert  Wallace  has  been  a 
telephone  engineer  with  Bell  systems,  IT&T, 
COMSAT  and  F.C.C.  for  the  last  ten  years.  The 
Wallaces  live  on  three  acres  in  Northern  Virginia, 
where  they  have  a  six-stall  barn  and  kennel  and 
breed  prize  golden  retrievers.  Bob  and  Joy  are 
very  active  in  the  Vienna  Baptist  Church.  He  is  a 
deacon  and  she  is  director  of  the  child  care 
program.  They  sing  in  the  choir,  which  toured 
Europe  over  a  year  ago.  Summer  finds  them  in 
Georgetown,  Me.  They  have  five  children  and 
two  grandchildren. 


I950 


Secretary: 

Lester  J  Reynolds.  Jr 

15  Cherry  Lane 

Basking  Ridge,  NJ 

07920 


Representative: 
Henry  S.  Coe,  Jr 
3  HarwickRd 
Wakefield,  MA 
01880 


John  Adams  is  currently  general  agent  for  Occi- 
dental Life  Insurance  Co.  of  California.  He  is 
located  in  Indianapolis. .  . .  Formerly  with  Heald 
Machine  and  the  Alden  Hydraulic  Laboratory, 
Richard  Amidon  has  now  been  named  senior 
vice  president  of  New  Hampshire  Ball  Bearings, 
Inc.,  Peterborough,  N.H. . .  .  Francis  Fay  con- 
tinues as  principal  engineer  at  Raytheon  Co., 
Wayland,  Mass. 


Dr.  Herman  Nied  has  joined  the  GE  Research 
and  Development  Center,  Schenectady,  N.Y. 
With  GE  since  1960,  Dr.  Nied  has  served  as  a 
research  engineer  in  GE's  Re-entry  and  En- 
vironmental Systems  Division,  Philadelphia;  an 
analytical  mechanics  engineer  at  Knolls  Atomic 
Power  Lab. ,  Schenectady;  and  as  manager  of 
advanced  mechanics  in  the  Gas  Turbine  Division. 
He  has  a  PhD  from  the  University  of  Pennsyl- 
vania and  belongs  to  the  ASME,  the  Society  for 
Experimental  Stress  Analysis,  and  the  American 
Academy  of  Mechanics.  He  is  a  professional 
engineer  in  New  York  and  New  Jersey. 

Les  Reynolds  is  still  at  the  American  Cyanamid 
Company  in  Bound  Brook,  N.J.  Presently,  he 
holds  the  position  of  assistant  marketing  man- 
ager of  Textile  Chemicals.  He  attended  the 
National  Technical  Conference  of  the  AATCC  in 
October  at  which  Joe  Gibson,  '44  received  the 
highest  award  in  the  textile  dyeing  industry,  the 

Olney  Award Robert  Stewart  has  resigned  as 

president  and  chief  operating  officer  of  Arlen 
Realty  &  Development  Corp.  to  take  over  the 
new  post  of  senior  vice  president  of  corporate 
planning  development  at  IC  Industries,  Inc., 
Chicago.  IC  is  a  diversified  railroad,  real  estate 
and  food  products  company.  Stewart  will  primar- 
ily be  in  charge  of  strategic  and  operational 
planning,  acquisitions  and  divestitures.  His  first 
assignment  will  cover  a  possible  major  transac- 
tion involving  Illinois  Central  Gulf  Railroad,  a 
subsidiary  that  IC  sought  earlier  to  sell  to  South- 
ern Railway.  Stewart  has  been  nominated  by  the 
WPI  Alumni  Association  to  a  five-year  term  on 
the  WPI  board  of  trustees  beginning  in  1 980. 


195 1 


Secretary 
Stanley  L  Miller 
11  Ashwood  Rd 
Paxton,  MA 
01612 


Representative: 

John  L  Reld 

31  Spring  Garden  Dr. 

Madison,  NJ 

07940 


Frank  MacPherson  has  retired  from  politics  after 
serving  four  years  as  a  Westfield  (N.J.)  council- 
man and  council  chairman  of  the  Public  Works 
Dept.  While  in  office,  he  was  concerned  with 
instituting  extensive  storm  water  controls,  in- 
cluding a  large  retention  basin  project.  He  says, 
"Jack  Malloy,  '54,  was  my  'boss',  as  he  has 
served  as  town  administrator  for  many  years." 
Last  year,  MacPherson  Control  Products,  Inc. 
celebrated  its  20th  anniversary.  The  older  Mac- 
Pherson daughters  graduated  from  UVM.  Carol 
is  in  Suffield  Academy. 


1952 

Secretary 

Edward  G  Samolis 
580  Roberts  Ave. 
Syracuse,  NY 
13207 

Richard  Boutiette,  DPW  director  in  Wakefield, 
Mass.  since  1961 ,  has  been  reappointed  for  a 
three-year  period  by  a  unanimous  vote  of  the 
board  of  Public  Works.  In  1977,  Boutiette  was 
named  "Man  of  the  Year"  by  the  New  England 
Chapter  of  the  American  Public  Works  Associa- 
tion, which  he  had  previously  served  as  presi- 
dent. He  is  a  past  president  of  Norfolk  Bristol 
Middlesex  Highway  Association  and  a  member 
of  the  New  England  Waterworks  Association.  He 
was  chairman  of  the  Technical  Advisory  Com- 
mittee for  Solid  Waste  Disposal  for  the  MAPC. 
He  has  been  employed  by  the  Massachusetts 
DPW,  Edward  and  Kelcey,  and  the  Town  of 
Reading,  Mass.,  as  town  engineer.  In  1966,  he 
gained  national  recognition  for  his  unique 
snow-plowing  school.  He  is  a  registered  profes- 
sional engineer,  and  he  belongs  to  the  ASCE,  and 
the  Massachusetts  Municipal  Engineers  Associa- 
tion. .  .  .  Earl  Klaubert's  son  Brian  is  studying 
mechanical  engineering  at  WPI. 


1953 

Secretary: 

Dr  David  S  Jenney 

109WilbrookRd. 

Stratford,  CT 

06497 

Ernest  Demar  writes:  "Now  that  my  son  Danny 
has  decided  to  attend  WPI,  I  am  no  longer  a 
'missing  person.'  "  For  17  years  Demar  has  been 
working  abroad.  Currently,  he  is  a  resident  con- 
struction manager  for  Pullman  Kellogg  Limited, 
assigned  to  a  large  refinery  expansion  for  Mobil 
Oil  outside  of  London,  England.  Demar's  oldest 
son  is  a  sophomore  at  Tufts. . . .  Dave  Elovitz  has 
resigned  as  chief  executive  officer  of  Medical 
Area  Service  Corporation  in  Boston  to  devote  full 
time  to  his  private  practice  as  a  consulting  man- 
agement engineer  concentrating  on  energy  sys- 
tems. He  has  an  office  in  Natick.  He  started 
MASCO  in  1972  and  built  it  to  an  annual  volume 
of  over$12  million.  His  private  practice  will  build 
on  his  national  reputation  in  the  energy  conser- 
vation field. 


24 /The  WPI  journal/  Winter  1980 


1954 


Secretary: 
Roger  R  Osell 
18  Eliot  Rd 
Lexington,  MA 
02173 


Representative 
Roger  R  Osell 


David  Bisson  is  president  of  Trend  Transit,  Inc., 
Burlingame,  Calif.  .  .  .  Sahl  Kabbani's  eleven- 
year-old  firm,  New  Products  Industries  in  Saudi 
Arabia,  manufactures  PVC  pipes.  "It  was  the  first 
of  its  kind  in  the  country  in  1968."  Formerly,  he 
worked  as  general  manager  of  the  Arabian 
Cement  Company.  Two  daughters  are  married 
and  son  Khairy  is  studying  in  Michigan.  A  few 
years  ago,  Kabbani  had  a  "great"  reunion  with 
Abdul  Kazi  who  had  2,000  men  under  him,  and 
who  was  responsible  for  the  American  and  Rus- 
sian aid  to  Afghanistan  in  the  field  of  construc- 
tion. "After  the  revolution,  I  lost  contact  with 
him."  The  Kabbanis  have  traveled  often  to  Brazil 
and  Europe  and  twice  around  the  world. 

After  working  as  an  engineer  for  seven  years, 
Thomas  Kee  switched  professions  for  a  career  in 
the  investment  business  with  Merrill  Lynch, 
Pierce,  Fenner  &  Smith,  Inc.  He  is  now  an 
assistant  vice  president.  Son  Kenneth,  a  former 
high  school  All-Stater  in  tennis,  is  at  MIT.  Kim,  at 
Brown,  was  also  an  All-Stater  in  tennis  and  won  a 
varsity  letter  in  girl's  track.  Kara  is  in  grade  school 
and  also  likes  tennis,  golf,  and  gymnastics.  In  the 
summer,  the  Kees  play  golf  and  tennis,  turning 
to  platform  tennis  in  the  winter.  Kee  is  an  "avid 
backgammon  player,"  and  enjoys  philately.  He 
sometimes  runs  into  Dick  Lindquist  at  stamp 
shows.  Currently  on  the  board  of  the  Rhode 
Island  Association  for  the  Blind,  Kee  has  also 
served  as  PTA  president  and  church  treasurer. 

Jerome  Kilburne  has  spent  25  years  with  New 
England  Telephone  &  Telegraph,  except  for 
three  years  with  AT  &  T  in  New  York.  In  1 975,  he 
started  a  woodworking  business  featuring 
selected  furniture  accessories,  clocks,  and 
stained  glass  items.  The  Kilburnes  have  three 
children:  Debbie,  who  is  at  Rhode  Island  School 
of  Design;  Bruce,  who  is  a  landscaper;  and 
Donna,  a  high  school  senior.  They  reside  in 
Westwood,  Mass.  .  .  .  King  Killin  writes  that  his 
goals  are  to  "once  get  an  assignment  that  is  not 
somebody  else's  disaster,  and  to  catch  a  14 
pound  largemouth  bass."  As  for  his  career,  or 
anyone  else's,  "you  must  be  in  the  right  place  at 
the  right  time  to  insure  success."  Since  1974,  he 
has  held  the  post  of  vice  president  of  engineering 
at  American  Can  (U.S.  Reduction).  Previously, 
he  was  with  Kaiser  Engineers,  Bridgeport  Rolling 
Mills,  and  U.S.  Steel.  The  Killins  have  two  sons 
and  a  daughter. 

Joseph  King  of  Randolph,  Vermont,  says  that 
his  favorite  hobby  is  sailing  his  35-foot  sloop, 
"Sea  Fever"  along  the  coast  of  Maine.  He  likes 
photography  and  other  outdoor  activities,  too. 
His  biggest  interest  now  is  constructing  energy 
efficient  buildings  that  can  be  partially  heated 
with  alternative  energy  sources.  Presently,  he  is 
president  of  the  King  Company,  Inc.,  doing 
general  contracting.  He  owns  a  small  commer- 
cial development  which  has  a  completed  office 
building  and  others  are  being  planned.  Earlier,  he 


formed  an  engineering  consulting  firm,  Dubois 
&  King,  which  provides  environmental  engineer- 
ing services  to  northern  New  England  and  which 
continues  to  expand.  In  1970,  be  became  senior 
vice  president.  He  resigned  a  few  years  ago  to 
start  another  firm.  Formerly,  he  worked  for 
Metcalf  &  Eddy  in  Boston  and  the  New  England 
Division  of  the  Corps  of  Engineers.  He  and  his 
wife  have  four  children,  the  oldest  having  re- 
cently graduated  from  the  University  of  Ver- 
mont—  Richard  Kirk  works  as  staff  engineer  in 
high-speed  printer  development  at  IBM  in  Boca 
Raton,  Fla.  Formerly,  he  was  with  IBM  in 
Huntsville,  Ala.,  and  with  Hamilton  Standard  in 
Windsor  Locks,  Conn.  He  has  two  sons  and  a 
daughter.  Over  the  years,  he  has  seen  service 
with  the  Jaycees  as  secretary  and  president  in 
Suffield,  Conn.,  and  as  an  officer  and  commit- 
teeman for  churches  in  Suffield  and  Huntsville, 
Alabama  .  .  .  Says  Haralambos  Kritikos,  "After 
obtaining  my  BS  and  MS  at  WPI  and  being  full  of 
good  memories,  I  went  to  the  University  of 
Pennsylvania  in  Philadelphia,  where  I  continued 
my  studies  and  obtained  my  PhD  in  electrical 
engineering.  I  then  went  to  California  Institute  of 
Technology  as  a  research  fellow  for  a  year,  then 
back  to  the  University  of  Pennsylvania  as  a 
member  of  the  faculty.  I  am  now  professor  of 
electrical  engineering  at  the  University  of 
Pennsylvania,  where  I  teach  and  do  research  in 
the  area  of  electromagnetic  waves." 

Robert  Labonte's  group's  activities  have  fo- 
cused on  NASA,  principally  in  the  planning, 
design,  development,  testing  and  integration  of 
improved  command  and  control  systems  needed 
to  support  both  the  Space  Shuttle  and  the  many 
"exciting  space  programs  planned  for  the  late 
1980's."  Earlier,  he  led  special  studies  activities 
on  the  airborne  warning  and  control  system;  and 
served  as  the  U.S.  consultant  on  overall  com- 
munications planning  on  the  U.S.  NATO  delega- 
tion in  Paris.  In  previous  years  at  Westinghouse 
Air  Arm,  he  worked  on  the  development  of  the 
radar  for  the  Bomarc  missile.  For  a  time,  he  was 
on  the  staff  of  MIT's  Lincoln  Laboratory.  The 
Labontes'  only  child,  Robert,  spent  two  years  at 
Columbia,  and  is  now  completing  his  education 
nearer  home.  Wife  Dolores  is  the  current  presi- 
dent of  the  Shrewsbury  Woman's  Club.  . .  . 
Harold  Lake  wrote  an  article  that  appeared  in  the 
Proceedings  of  the  Electronic  Components  Con- 
ference and  a  chapter,  "Design  for  Shock  and 
Vibration,"  which  was  published  in  theHand- 
book  of  Electronic  Packaging,  McGraw-Hill.  He 
serves  as  supervisor  of  electro-mechanical  pack- 
aging process  control  systems  at  the  Foxboro 
Company.  Other  associations  were  with  Com- 
puter Signal  Processors,  Inc.,  Sylvania,  and 
Sperry  Gyroscope.  He  has  an  MS  from  Adelphi 
University.  His  daughter,  Debra,  graduated  from 
BU;  Sheryl,  from  Bryant  College;  and  Beth  is  in 
high  school,  while  Rhonda  is  in  junior  high. 
Lake's  wife,  Harriet,  a  dental  hygienist, 
graduated  from  the  University  of  Bridgeport. 


Paul  London  runs  a  business  fixing  vacuum 
pumps,  but  spends  all  the  time  he  can  sailing. 
Former  posts  were  as  refrigeration  contractor 
and  as  a  builder  of  environmental  rooms  for  oil 
companies.  He  spent  two  years  at  White  Sands, 
N.M.,  "trying  to  get  some  ball  bearings  to  orbit 
the  earth."  He  has  one  child  at  Ithaca  College, 
one  at  Lewis  &  Clark,  and  one  riding  a  bike 
around  England.  His  second  wife,  Sharon, 
graduated  this  year  with  a  degree  in  accounting. 
The  Londons  live  in  San  Francisco.  .  .  .  Russell 
Lussier  says  that  among  his  "special  awards"  are 
seven  speeding  tickets,  two  tax  audits,  and  a 
condemnation  notice  from  Planned  Parenthood, 
Inc.  (The  Lussiers  have  five  sons.)  He  has  his  own 
agency  in  Warren,  Ohio,  where  he  is  a  manufac- 
turers' representative.  Earlier,  he  was  seven 
years  in  sales  with  Horsburgh  &  Scott  Co., 
Cleveland,  and  nine  years  with  the  Torrington 
Company. 

Except  for  a  stint  in  the  Army,  Douglas  Mac- 
Laren  has  been  with  the  Torrington  Co.  since 
graduation.  Presently,  he  is  in  sales  management 
in  South  Bend,  Ind.  Previously,  he  had  been 
district  engineer  and  southwestern  district  man- 
ager, with  the  bulk  of  his  experience  being 
associated  with  the  oil  and  aircraft  industries.  He 
has  served  on  engineering  committees  for  the 
American  Petroleum  Institute.  One  of  his  sons  is 
pursuing  an  accounting  career,  and  another, 
engineering,  at  Texas  A&M.  The  youngest  is 
eight  and  keeps  Dad's  interest  in  soccer  and 
Little  League  alive —  Victor  Matonis  continues 
with  Monsanto  in  Springfield,  Mass.,  where  he  is 
technology  group  leader,  R&D.  He  has  written 
some  20  technical  papers,  and  holds  an  MS  and 
PhD  in  applied  mechanics  from  UConn.  Says  he 
plays  "lousy  golf,  not  too  bad  bridge,"  and  that 
he  and  his  wife  have  covered  most  of  the  world 
traveling.  Both  children  are  at  UMass.  Matonis  is 
past  chairman  of  his  section  of  the  ASME. . . . 
Malcolm  McLeod  is  a  senior  development  en- 
gineer at  UCLA.  He  holds  both  an  MS  in  en- 
gineering and  a  PhD  in  planetary  and  space 
physics  from  UCLA. 

Milton  Meckler  delivered  a  paper,  "Integrat- 
ing Solar  Powered  Heat-Recovery- 
Cogeneration  Chillers  with  Building  and  Thermal 
Storage  Characteristics,"  before  the  Interna- 
tional Conference  on  Energy  Use  Management 
held  in  October  in  Los  Angeles.  The  paper 
described  some  of  the  newer  concepts  being 
developed  by  the  Meckler  Energy  Group  and 

Meckler  Engineers  Group  in  Encino,  Calif For 

two  years,  Harry  Mirick  has  been  business 
manager-controller  for  external  resources  (In- 
ternational Purchasing)  at  Digital  Equipment 
Corp.,  Maynard,  Mass.,  and  has  traveled  exten- 
sively in  the  Far  East  and  in  Europe.  He  had  been 
with  HMW  Industries,  Lancaster,  Pa.,  as  vice 
president  of  operations  at  Time  Computer,  Inc., 
producer  of  Pulsar  digital  watches.  He  was  also 
with  IBM  and  the  U.S.  Army  Signal  Corps.  His 
wife,  Jean,  is  a  nurse  at  Worcester's  Memorial 
Hospital.  Son  Robert  is  at  the  Naval  Academy; 
and  a  daughter,  Suzanne,  at  Grove  City  (Pa.) 
College.  Mirick  likes  to  sail,  garden  and  hike.  He 
is  active  with  the  Methodist  Church,  the  Mas- 
sachusetts Council  of  Churches,  and  the  IEEE 


Winter  1980 /The  WPI  Journal/ 25 


Howard  Nelson,  long  associated  with  the  WPI 
Fund  Board,  received  his  master's  degree  from 
WPI  this  year.  For  the  past  two  years,  he  has 
been  at  Jamesbury  in  Worcester.  Since  gradua- 
tion, he  has  worked  for  four  companies  in  the 
engineering  departments,  and  found  the  associ- 
ations "most  pleasant."  The  Nelsons  have  two 
sons  and  reside  in  Grafton.  .  . .  The  youngest  of 
David  Nickerson's  three  daughters  is  in  her 
senior  year  in  college.  After  1 5  years  in  engineer- 
ing, David  and  two  other  people  went  into 
business.  "The  venture  has  kept  me  quite  busy 
and  satisfied."  The  Nickerons  live  in  Wilbraham, 
Mass. 

Bob  Niro  holds  the  post  of  manager  of  field 
communications  for  the  Technical  OEM  Group 
at  Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Maynard,  Mass. 
Since  he  joined  the  firm  1 3  years  ago,  he  has 
spent  most  of  his  time  in  marketing  positions  and 
promoting  the  very  successful  PDP-8  minicom- 
puter. Earlier,  he  spent  five  years  at  LFE/Tracerlab 
in  Waltham,  Mass.  traveling  the  U.S.  and 
Canada  as  a  project  engineer.  He  and  his  wife 
Jackie,  who  likes  to  ski,  have  two  daughters, 
Leslie  and  Christina.  .  .  .  Robert  Pickford  is  the 
manager  of  systems  and  procedures  for  the 
Pharmaceutical  Group  of  Warner  Lambert  in 
Mendham,  N.J.  His  group  is  comprised  of  six 
drug  companies,  such  as  Parke-Davis,  Warner 
Chilcott,  Texas  Pharmacal,  and  Lactona.  He  has 
also  been  at  American  Optical,  Mass.  Mutual 
Life  Insurance  Co.,  and  American  International 
College,  where  he  received  his  MBA  and  estab- 
lished a  data  processing  program.  For  a  time,  he 
worked  for  the  Counter  Intelligence  Corps  in 
Panama.  Pickford  and  his  wife  Betty  are  the 
parents  of  Linda,  a  Gettysburg  College  student, 

and  Stephen,  17 During  Fabian  Pinkham's 

career,  he  has  worked  on  numerous  nationwide 
projects  in  the  U.S.  Dept.  of  Agriculture,  and 
made  the  first  installation  of  an  integrated  data 
processing  system  within  the  USDA.  He  served 
on  the  National  Inventory  Task  Force  of  the 
USDA;  was  a  member  of  USDA's  National 
Transportation  Management  Task  Force; 
worked  on  problem  areas,  such  as  packaging 
and  protective  services;  and  developed  and  insti- 
tuted mathematical  models  for  obtaining  op- 
timum solutions  for  competitive  bids  involving  a 
multiplicity  of  limitations,  i.e.,  origin  points 
(sources  of  supply),  processing  plants,  and  desti- 
nation points  for  finished  products  in  all  fifty 
states.  His  efforts  proved  successful,  and  he  was 
presented  with  the  highest  award  for  an  em- 
ployee suggestion  ever  granted  in  the  National 
Processed  Commodity  Office. 

In  1 978,  Ed  Power  was  elected  vice  president 
for  planning  and  market  development  of 
Windspan,  Inc.,  a  new  General  Foods  subsidiary 
formed  to  develop  a  dinner  house  restaurant 
chain.  Previously,  he  had  been  employed  by 
General  Foods  at  its  headquarters  in  White 
Plains,  N.Y.,  for  ten  years  working  on  corporate 
development  programs.  The  Powers  have  three 
children:  Jane,  Maura,  and  Ned.  Power  is  a 
captain  in  the  Naval  Reserve.  He  is  inspector 
general  for  a  Reserve  Readiness  Command  near 
Schenectady,  which  is  responsibleforthousands 
of  reservists.  .  .  .  With  the  Magnetics  Division  of 
Spang  Industries  for  ten  years,  George  Ramig  is 
now  regional  sales  manager  over  eight  salesmen 


covering  the  eastern  part  of  the  U.S.  Company 
products  include  cores  for  transformers  and 
magnetic  steels.  Ramig  has  taken  up  tennis, 
which  he  says  his  son,  Keith,  plays  better  than 
he.  Daughter  Jeanne  is  at  Indiana  University. 
Ramig's  wife,  Virginia,  is  a  musician,  while 
Ramig  is  active  in  musical  groups  and  enjoys 
nature  photography. .  .  .  For  two  years,  Walt 
Reibling  has  been  plant  manager  of  the  Louis- 
ville (Ky.)  Corning  Glass  Works  plant  known  as 
Corhart  Refractories.  The  plant  makes  fused  cast 
refractories  for  the  glass  industry.  Reibling  has 
been  at  Corning  for  1 5  years.  He  has  three 
children:  a  college  graduate  daughter  living  at 
home;  Kurt,  a  married  mechanical  engineer 
working  at  IBM;  and  a  daughter  at  UConn. 

Donald  Ross  is  vice  president  and  general 
manager  at  MPB  Corporation  in  New  Hamp- 
shire. He  has  been  involved  in  sales,  marketing, 
and  specialized  business  serving  the  aircraft  and 
aerospace  industries.  Presently,  he  is  responsible 
for  three  divisions  in  New  England.  The  older 
Ross  daughter  graduated  from  Dartmouth,  and 
the  younger  is  19.  Their  son  is  14.  Ross  and  his 
wife  Prue  are  involved  with  a  bank  directorship 
and  volunteer  school  work,  respectively.  Hob- 
bies include  baseball  and  antique  auto  restora- 
tion. 

Laurence  Sanborn's  oldest  boy  is  a  student  at 
WPI.  At  home,  his  hobby  is  "keeping  two  older 
cars  out  of  the  grave."  His  true  career  love  is 
microelectronic  assembly,  primarily  in  the  areas 
of  thick  film  hybrids.  Last  May,  he  became  senior 
manufacturing  engineer  planner  at  Hamilton 
Standard,  Electronics  Division.  Among  earlier 
employers  were  GE  and  Raytheon.  . .  .  Dexter 
Sanford  serves  as  a  staff  engineer  for  Northeast 
Utilities  Service  Company  in  Berlin,  Conn.  His 
responsibilities  include  the  design  and  applica- 
tion of  protective  relay  systems  for  the  affiliated 
companies  of  Northeast  Utilities.  During  his 
career,  he  has  worked  for  Connecticut  Power 
Co.,  served  in  the  Army  at  the  White  Sands 
Proving  Ground  in  New  Mexico,  and  at  Hartford 
Electric.  .  .  .  After  a  number  of  years  with  GE, 
Fairchild,  and  Sperry  Flight  Systems,  William 
Schoenemann  joined  Microform  Data  Systems 
as  manufacturing  manager.  Eight  years  later,  the 
company  had  grown  from  two  people  in  man- 
ufacturing and  zero  sales,  to  250  people  and  $36 
million  in  sales.  Schoenemann  rose  to  vice  presi- 
dent of  operations  at  Microform,  then  joined 
Telecommunications  Technology,  Inc.,  in 
California,  recently,  where  he  is  continuing  his 
pattern  as  a  "workaholic."  He's  played  racquet- 
ball  three  times  a  week  for  five  years. 

Richard  Scott  holds  the  post  of  senior  es- 
timator in  the  Providence  office  of  Gilbane  Build- 
ing Co.,  a  firm  he  joined  following  graduation. 
He  worked  on  various  road,  bridge,  and  building 
jobs  for  the  company,  then  in  1 966,  he  became 
town  engineer  for  his  home  town  of  Cumber- 
land. In  1 971  he  returned  to  Gilbane.  He  is  a 
professional  engineer.  The  Scotts'  four  sons  all 
like  sports,  and  Dad  has  served  as  Little  League 
coach.  Scott  has  also  been  associated  with  the 
local  youth  hockey  group,  and  the  Cumberland 
Public  Skating  Association  for  the  past  ten  years. 


.  .  .  William  Seubert,  a  licensed  professional 
engineer,  is  a  senior  engineer  at  C.F.  Braun  & 
Co.,  Murray  Hill,  N.J.  He  and  his  wife  Diana  have 
four  children  and  live  in  Belle  Mead. 

Continuing  at  the  Naval  Underwater  System 
Center  in  Newport,  R.I.,  Edwin  Shivell  is  con- 
cerned with  A&W  ranger  and  fleet  systems  T&E. 
He  has  been  Massachusetts  state  president  of 
the  Jaycees.  He  also  was  involved  with  Masonry 
and  the  United  Fund.  Among  his  hobbies  are 
tennis  and  sailboat  racing.  .  .  .  Making  antique 
imitations,  woodworking,  and  cabinetry  are  fa- 
vorite pastimes  of  Charles  Simonich.  He  super- 
vises engineering  design,  construction  and  main- 
tenance of  aerial,  underground,  buried  and 
submarine  structures  and  cable  facilities  for  tele- 
phone communication  needs  of  the  Springfield 
(Mass.)  district  of  New  England  Telephone  Co. 
Son  Charles  attends  Fairfield  University;  David  is 
a  high  school  student;  and  John  is  in  junior  high. 
.  . .  The  Halvor  Skjellaugs  love  to  travel  and 
spend  many  vacations  in  the  Canary  Islands. 
Skjellaug  works  for  Norsk  Hydro-Rjukan  Fabrik- 
ker  in  Norway.  The  company  produces  am- 
monia, ammonium  nitrate  for  forest  fertilizers 
and  explosives,  and  concentrated  nitric  acid,  as 
well  as  heavy  water  and  a  variety  of  rare  gases. 
The  family,  which  includes  a  son  and  daughter, 
likes  skiing,  fishing,  and  gardening.  . . .  After 
twenty-five  years  with  du  Pont,  Walter  Stewart 
of  Marietta,  Ohio,  is  presently  a  senior  process 
engineer  in  the  fluoropolymers  division  man- 
ufacturing Teflon  and  providing  liaison  with  the 
engineering  department.  In  the  past,  he  has 
been  involved  with  the  production  of  the  plastic 
inner  layer  for  windshields,  and  had  been  as- 
signed to  Parkersburg,  W.  Va.,  and  Aiken,  S.C. 
Dave  is  at  the  University  of  Cincinnati  Medical 
School.  Doug  is  at  the  University  of  Colorado, 
and  Cindy  is  in  high  school.  All  are  competitive 
swimmers.  Stewart  has  coached  the  local  YMCA 
team. 

Seventeen  years  ago,  McKinsey  &  Company 
invited  Henry  Strage  to  go  to  London  for  a 
"short"  assignment.  Today  he  is  still  there,  serv- 
ing as  a  director  of  the  firm.  He,  his  wife,  and  four 
children  love  London.  "It  is  probably  the  most 
civilized  city  in  the  world."  His  most  satisfying 
professional  assignments  involved  the  complete 
restructuring  of  the  government  of  Tanzania  and 
the  reorganization  of  the  United  Kingdom  Na- 
tional Health  Service,  which  employs  a  million 
people.  He's  been  associated  with  the  U.N.,  the 
British  Cabinet  think-tank,  and  the  Bank  of 
England.  He  is  now  on  assignment  with  the 
multinational  chemical  and  oil  companies.  He  is  a 
governor  of  the  Hebrew  University  Jerusalem 
Institute  of  Management.  He  writes  manage- 
ment articles  for  magazines,  speaks  at  seminars, 
and  sometimes  teaches  at  Harvard  Business 
School.  The  Strages  are  well  traveled,  like  to  ski, 
and  are  involved  with  the  National  Association 

for  Gifted  Children Wilfred  Taylor  is  the 

principal  member  of  TEC  Associates  in  Wind- 
ham, Me.  (consulting  civil  and  sanitary  en- 
gineers). Other  associations  have  been  with  Dale 
E.  Caruthers  Co.,  Crowell  &  Taylor,  Barnstable, 
Mass.  (town  engineer),  Corse  &  Tibbetts,  and 
Columbia  Gas  Co.  Taylor  is  a  professional  en- 


26 /The  Wl'l  Journal/  Winter  1980 


gineer  and  enjoys  building  houses.  He  has  been 
busy  in  civic  associations,  scouting,  sailing,  and 
farming.  "Raise  most  of  our  own  food."  He 
hopes  to  develop  water  and  wind  power  as  well 
as  solar  energy  alternatives.  Currently,  he  has  a 
tree  farm  and  heats  with  wood.  He  has  two  sons 
(one  a  former  WPI  student)  and  four  daughters. 

Otto  Wahlrab  continues  as  the  owner  of  John 
P.  Slade  Insurance  in  Fall  River,  Mass.,  having 
purchased  the  company  in  1975  from  Bill 
Worthley,  '37.  He  was  with  Firemen's  Mutual 
Insurance  Co.,  the  Navy,  and  New  England 
Telephone  Co.  The  Wahlrabs  live  in  Rehoboth, 
where  Otto  is  on  the  planning  board.  He  is  a 
former  chairman  of  the  Republican  party  in 
Massachusetts,  a  trustee  of  the  Congregational 
Church,  president  of  Family  Planning  of  Fall 
River,  and  a  director  of  the  local  Chamber  of 
Commerce.  He  is  involved  with  Rotary,  scouting, 
squash,  and  golf.  The  Wahlrabs  have  three 
daughters,  two  being  in  college.  .  .  .  Steinerfilm, 
Inc.,  Williamstown,  Mass.,  where  Cordon 
"Bucky"  Walters  is  president-treasurer,  is  being 
expanded  by  30,000  square  feet.  (Son  Glenn, 
76,  is  plant  manager.)  Walters  started  the  firm  in 
1972.  He  was  a  former  employee  of  Sprague 
Electric,  du  Pont,  and  was  with  the  Army.  He 
holds  two  patents  and  has  been  published  in  a 
national  magazine.  His  concerns  include  church 
work,  prison  visitations,  Bible  studies,  camping, 
swimming,  sailing  and  fishing.  Recently,  he  was 
in  Brazil.  He  is  associated  with  American  Field 
Service,  scouting,  the  PTA,  Little  League,  and  is  a 
director  of  First  Aggie  National  Bank  and  Jiminy 
Peak.  He  holds  45  percent  of  the  stock  in 
TEPCO.  The  five  Walters  children  and  their 
parents  enjoy  their  waterfront  home  on  Lake 
George.  Walters  is  a  member  of  the  Presidents 
Advisory  Council  at  WPI. 

R.  Kingman  Webster  holds  the  post  of  man- 
ager of  a  regional  manufacturer  and  distributor 
of  feeds  for  poultry  and  livestock,  and  he  is 
located  in  Andover,  Mass.  He  is  a  member  and 
officer  of  several  Masonic,  YMCA,  Red  Cross, 
and  United  Fund  associations.  Hobbies  include 
puttering  around  the  house  and  yard,  skiing,  and 
tennis.  The  Websters  have  three  daughters. . . . 
In  the  past  year  and  a  half,  Wesley  Wheeler  has 
had  eight  career-oriented  trips  around  the 
world.  He  heads  his  own  firm  of  International 
Maritime  Consultants  Wesley  D.  Wheeler  As- 
sociates, Ltd.  in  New  York  City.  Among  his 
projects  have  been  the  coordinating  of  four 
containership  new  buildings  for  ITEL  Corp./ 
Seatrain  Charter,  numerous  ship  surveys,  and 
legal  cases.  He  is  also  the  U.S.  representative  for 
Astilleros,  Espanoles,  S.A.  Earlier  he  was  with 
American  Bulk  Carriers,  Inc;  Wheeler  Yacht  Co.; 
M.  Rosenblatt  and  Son,  Inc.;  John  J.  McMullen 
Associates,  Inc.;  and  J.  J.  Henry  Co.,  Inc.  For 
seven  years  he  lived  in  Spain,  Malta,  and  the 
Netherlands.  He  has  an  MS  in  engineering 
(Naval  Architecture  and  Marine  Engineering) 
from  the  University  of  Michigan.  ...  For  twelve 
years,  "Howie"  Whittle  has  served  as  treasurer 
of  Hollingsworth  and  Vose  Co. ,  which  manufac- 
tures and  sells  $53  million  worth  of  specialty 
paper  and  non-woven  products  worldwide.  Lo- 
cated in  South  Acton,  Mass.,  the  Whittles  have 


three  daughters,  "who  have  grown  up  on  a  little 
farm  with  lots  of  horses  around."  They  summer 
on  Cape  Cod  and  do  some  Sunfish  racing.  They 
winter  at  Mad  River  Glen,  Vt.,  on  skis.  Their 
oldest  daughter  graduated  from  RIT,  and  is 
married;  their  second  is  a  student  at  UMass,  as  is 
their  youngest.  Wife  Bebe  is  "quite  a  horse- 
woman." 


1955 


Secretary 

Kenneth  L.  Wakeen 
344  Waterville  Rd 
Avon,  CT 
06001 


Representative: 
Edouard  S.  P.  Bouvier 
123  Beechwoods  Dr. 
Madison,  CT 
06443 


Robert  Holden  now  teaches  engineering  sub- 
jects at  Cuyamaca  College  in  San  Diego,  Calif. 
The  school  is  an  "offshoot"  of  Grossmont  Col- 
lege, where  he  has  taught  for  years.  Last  summer 
he  ran  in  two  marathons  (26  miles,  385  yards), 
and  clocked  3  hrs,  48  mins.,  at  the  San  Francisco 
marathon,  and  3  hrs.,  54  mins.  in  San  Diego.  He 

was  track  manager  at  WPI  in  1 955 Charles 

Walters,  manager  of  the  Wallingford  (Conn.) 
Electric  Division,  has  been  reelected  treasurer  of 
the  Northeast  Public  Power  Association 
(NEPPA).  Employed  in  the  utility  industry  for 
over  20  years,  he  also  has  an  MBA  from  the 
University  of  New  Haven.  NEPPA  is  a  Wellesley 
(Mass.)  based  association  representing  the  81 
consumer-owned  electric  utilities  in  New  En- 
gland. 


1956 


Secretary: 

Rev.  Paul  D.  Schoonmaker 

325  North  Lewis  Rd 

Royersford,  PA 

19468 


Representative: 
John  M.  McHugh 
431  Beacon  Hill  Dr. 
Cheshire,  CT 
06410 


Alan  Adamson,  formerly  supervisor  of  Genera- 
tion Planning,  has  been  appointed  planning 
manager  of  the  New  York  Power  Pool.  He  is 
responsible  for  the  Pool's  eight  member  electric 
power  systems,  which  supply  the  major  portion 
of  the  electric  energy  consumed  in  New  York 
State.  He  manages  the  planning  staff,  and  di- 
rects studies  regarding  the  need  for  different 
types  of  generating  and  high  voltage  transmis- 
sion facilities  in  the  state.  After  graduation,  he 
joined  Long  Island  Lighting,  and  before  joining 
the  Pool  in  1 971 ,  served  as  supervisor  of  genera- 
tion and  interconnection  planning.  With  the 
Pool,  he  was  responsible  for  supervising,  per- 
forming, scheduling,  and  coordination  of  gener- 
ation planning  studies  in  his  capacity  as  super- 
visor of  generation  planning.  He  belongs  to  the 
IEEE  and  serves  on  the  Application  of  Probability 
Methods  Subcommittee.  He  and  his  wife,  Carol, 
have  three  children  and  reside  in  Guilderland, 
N.Y. 


Still  with  United  Technologies,  Ernest  Bern- 
stein is  now  engineering  manager  in  Farm- 
ington,  Conn.  .    .  Donald  Lathrop  has  been 
promoted  from  associate  professor  to  professor 
in  the  humanities  division  at  Berkshire  Commu- 
nity College  in  Pittsfield,  Mass.  He  started  teach- 
ing in  the  sciences  and  engineering  department 
in  1961 ,  and  presently  teaches  philosophy.  He 
has  two  master's  degrees:  one  in  natural  science 
from  RPI  and  another  in  religion  from  USC. 


1957 


Secretary: 

Dr  Robert  A  Yates 

1 1  Oak  Ridge  Dr. 

Bethany,  CT 

06525 


Representative 
Alfred  E  Barry 
1  Algonquin  Rd 
Worcester,  MA 
01609 


John  Daly  has  been  elected  president  of  seven 
Columbia  Gas  System  distribution  companies 
with  headquarters  in  Columbus,  Ohio.  Columbia 
Gas  Companies  included  are  those  in  Kentucky, 
Ohio,  Maryland,  New  York,  Pennsylvania,  Vir- 
ginia, and  West  Virginia.  Since  1976,  Daly  has 
been  general  counsel  and  secretary  of  Columbia 
Transmission  Corp.  in  Charleston,  W.  Va.,  a  unit 
of  Columbia  Gas  System.  He  has  been  with 
Columbia  since  1957,  and  holds  a  law  degree 
from  Seton  Hall.  In  1961 ,  he  was  named  an 
assistant  supervisory  engineer  in  New  York,  then 
corporate  headquarters.  In  1971 ,  he  was  pro- 
moted to  senior  attorney.  He  became  a  member 
of  the  law  department  of  Columbia  Transmission 
in  1973.  In  1976,  he  was  named  general  counsel 
of  the  firm.  Daly  and  his  wife,  Jane,  have  three 
sons  and  a  daughter.  .  .  .  Bob  Lemay  is  working 

for  IBM  in  Hopewell  Junction,  N.Y Presently, 

Richard  Moore  serves  as  supervisor  of  applica- 
tion engineering  at  SKF  Industries,  Inc.,  in  King 
of  Prussia,  Pa.  . .  .  Robert  Propper  continues  as  a 
visual  information  officer  at  the  U.S.  Dept.  of 
Transportation  in  Washington,  D.C. 

Donald  Rising  holds  the  post  of  manager  of 
medical  products  development  at  Millipore 
Corp.  in  Bedford,  Mass.  .  .  .  Richard  Stevens  is  a 
sales  engineer  at  Sprague  Electric  Co.  in  In- 

glewood,  Calif David  Stuart,  who  serves  the 

Baha'i  faith  as  an  assistant  auxiliary  board 
member  in  Massachusetts  and  New  York,  was 
guest  speaker  at  a  Baha'i  fireside  discussion  in 
Schenectady,  N.Y.  last  September.  He  is  an 
assistant  director  of  the  New  England  Power 
Exchange. 


Winter  1980 /The  WPI  journal/ 21 


1958 


Secretary: 
Harry  R.  Rydstrom 
132  Sugartown  Rd 
Devon,  PA 
19333 

Neil  Carignan  holds  the  post  of  chief  design 
engineer  in  the  Jacksonville  (Fla.)  office  of  M. 
Rosenblatt  &  Son.  He  is  primarily  concerned  with 
Navy  marine  design.  . . .  Norman  Taupeka  is 
currently  attending  the  Industrial  College  of  the 
Armed  Forces  in  Washington,  D.C.,  his  studies 
there  concluding  at  the  end  of  June.  ICAF  pro- 
vides senior  level  courses  of  study  and  associated 
research  in  the  management  of  resources  in 
support  of  national  security  for  selected  military 
officers  and  career  civilian  officials  in  the  federal 
government.  For  three  years,  Taupeka  has 
served  as  chief  of  the  Systems  Engineering  Divi- 
sion at  the  Center  for  Tactical  Computer  Sys- 
tems, U.S.  Army  Communications  Research  and 
Development  Command,  Fort  Monmouth,  N.J. 
He  has  held  increasingly  responsible  positions  at 
Fort  Monmouth  since  graduation.  The  Taupekas 
and  their  daughter,  Mary  Ann,  reside  in  Alexan- 
dria, Va. 


1959 


Secretary: 

Dr.  Frederick  H.  Lutze,  Jr. 

110  Camelot  Court  NW 

Blacksburg,  VA 

24060 


Representative: 

Dr  Joseph  D  Bronzino 

Trinity  College 

Summit  St. 

Hartford,  CT 

06106 


After  many  years  of  teaching  and  administrative 
work,  Oscar  Hawley  has  just  assumed  the 
headmastership  of  the  Harvard  School  in 
Chicago.  The  Hawleys  have  a  son,  Peter,  and  a 
daughter,  Mary  Elisabeth.  "We  try  to  return  to 
New  England  every  summer  for  some  play  at  the 
shore  in  Rockport,  Mass."  .  .  .  Philip  Holden  is 
currently  computer  systems  supervisor  at  the 
Brevard  (N.C.)  film  plant  of  du  Pont.  His  daugh- 
ter, Cathi,  made  the  dean's  list  at  the  University 
of  North  Carolina,  and  is  working  toward  a 
degree  in  veterinary  medicine.  Sister  Lori  was 
voted  "Citizen  of  the  Year"  at  her  high  school, 
where  she  was  named  official  photographer  of 
the  senior  class.  Cathi  has  traveled  to  Europe  and 
Lori  to  Venezuela  on  school  trips.  The  girls  also 
visited  an  exchange  student  friend  in  Japan. . . . 
Leo  Price  continues  with  the  U.S.  Army  Corps  of 
Engineers.  He  is  presently  serving  as  a 
geotechnic  engineer  in  Tel  Aviv,  Israel.  He  is 
concerned  with  the  construction  of  air  bases 
under  the  U.S. -Israel  agreement.  He  specializes 
in  horizontal  construction  and  foundations. 


i960 


Secretary 
PaulW  Bayliss 
170WyngateDr 
Barnngton,  IL 
60010 


Representative 
JohnW  Biddle 
78  Highland  St. 
Holden,  MA 
01520 


Cdr.  Kevin  Burke  is  teaching  management  at  the 
U.S.  Naval  Post  Graduate  School  in  Monterey, 
Calif.  Last  year,  he  was  evacuated  from  Tehran, 
Iran,  where  he  was  serving  as  an  advisor  to  the 
Iranian  joint  staff.  .  .  .  Recently,  Thomas  Hous- 
ton purchased  an  ornamental  iron  works  busi- 
ness in  Eugene,  Oregon.  He  had  been  employed 
by  Hughes  Aircraft  in  Fullerton,  Calif.,  for  19 
years.  .  .  .  David  Mudgett  works  at  the  United 
Technologies  Research  Center  in  West  Palm 
Beach,  Fla. 

John  Reisinger  has  been  named  division  staff 
manager  of  residence  services  for  Southern  New 
England  Telephone  in  a  newly  created  post.  He  is 
responsible  for  staff  functions,  including  busi- 
ness office  and  phone  center  store  methods  and 
commercial  budgets,  results,  and  training.  Ear- 
lier, he  was  division  manager  in  materials  man- 
agement. He  joined  SNET  as  assistant  engineer 
in  1960.  In  1967,  he  was  named  installation  and 
maintenance  supervisor.  After  serving  as  district 
equipment  superintendent  and  northern  area 
staff  manager,  he  was  promoted  to  division 
manager  in  1976.  He  has  an  MBA  from  the 
University  of  Hartford,  is  a  team  captain  for  the 
United  Way  of  Greater  New  Haven,  and  a 
member  of  the  University  Club  of  Hartford. . . . 
Frank  Siegel  holds  the  post  of  senior  engineer  at 
Raytheon  in  Bedford,  Mass.  He  is  in  the  hybrid 
microcircuit  advanced  development  group. 


I961 

Secretary 
John  J  Gabarro 
8  Monadnock  Rd. 
Arlington,  MA 
02174 

Henry  Allessio,  vice  president  of  Hayes/Hill,  Inc. , 
a  management  consulting  firm,  was  recently 
quoted  in  The  Wall  Street  Journal  as  saying  that 
demand  for  auto  parts  was  projected  to  rise  a 
slim  1 .45  percent  in  1 979  compared  with  a 
growth  of  3.9%  and  5.5%  in  1978  and  1977, 
respectively.  People  buy  fewer  auto  parts  when 
they  drive  less,  as  the  slowdown  in  the  growth  of 
auto  parts  sales  proves.  .  . .  Richard  Andrews 
continues  as  program  manager  for  ERT,  Inc.,  in 
Concord,  Mass. ...  Dr.  Norman  Bolyea  is  now 
president  of  Bolyea  Associates  in  Rye  Beach, 
N.H. . . .  David  Chesmel  has  been  appointed 
manager  of  marketing  for  the  seal  and  packing 
division  of  Chemplast,  Inc.,  Wayne,  N.J.,  a  pro- 
cessor of  high  performance  plastics.  He  is  re- 
sponsible for  marketing  in  the  new  division,  as 
well  as  for  sales  and  product  development  pro- 
grams. He  holds  a  master's  degree  from  Wayne 
State  University. 


Nino  DiPilato  has  transferred  to  a  new  IBM 
location  in  Charlotte,  N.C.  He  is  presently  work- 
ing on  the  system  design  and  architecture  of 
Retail  Banking  Systems  as  an  advisory  engineer. 
He,  his  wife,  and  two  sons  are  living  in  Mathews, 
a  suburb  of  Charlotte.  "We  are  all  adjusting  well 
to  the  beautiful  North  Carolina  weather."  .  . . 
Ralph  Guertin  has  moved  to  Denver,  Colo.,  and 
is  now  a  geophysical  consultant  with  McAdams, 
Roux,  O'Connor  Associates,  Inc.,  an  oil  and  gas 
exploration  firm.  He  is  responsible  for  geophysi- 
cal research  and  for  development  of  new 
mathematical  methods  to  process  seismic  data. 
. . .  Brad  Hosmer  has  been  elected  corporate  vice 
president  of  Group  Services  for  AMF  Incorpo- 
rated. Brad  joined  AMF  in  1978,  following  a 
series  of  marketing,  operations  and  engineering 
management  assignments  with  three  com- 
panies, including  the  management  consulting 
firm  of  Booz  Allen  Hamilton.  At  Branson  Sonic 
Power  Co.,  he  rose  to  vice  president  of  special 
products  marketing.  AMF  Incorporated,  his 
present  firm,  is  a  worldwide  producer  of  leisure 
time  and  industrial  products. 

James  Kachadorian,  owner  and  founder  of 
Green  Mountain  Homes,  Royalton,  Vt.,  spoke 
about  his  manufactured  solar  homes  as  part  of  a 
session  on  emerging  architecture  in  Kansas  City 
in  October  at  the  Fourth  National  Passive  Solar 
Conference.  Since  1976,  Jim's  designs  have  re- 
ceived national  recognition  by  such  organiza- 
tions as  the  National  Passive  Solar  Institute,  the 
American  Section  of  the  International  Solar  En- 
ergy Society,  Inc.,  the  National  Woodwork 
Manufacturers  Association,  Solar  Engineering 
Magazine,  and  House  and  Garden.  Sandia 
Laboratories,  Los  Alamos,  N.M.,  selected 
Kachadorian's  design  as  one  of  fifteen  passive 
solar  homes  studied  for  a  special  report  last  July. 
The  houses  were  considered  to  be  the  best 
passive  solar-heated  buildings  of  the  year.  Al- 
ready studied  by  Dartmouth's  Thayer  School  of 
Engineering,  Jim's  homes  will  soon  be  studied  by 
Brookhaven  Laboratories  of  New  York. 

Green  Mountain  passive  solar  homes  are  indi- 
vidually designed  for  homeowners,  manufac- 
tured in  Royalton,  and  shipped  throughout  the 
eastern  U.S.  from  Virginia  and  Kansas  to  the 
Canadian  border.  Presently,  the  Kachadorians 
are  building  their  own  solar  home,  the  first  such 
home  in  Woodstock,  Vermont. 

Normand  Noel  is  the  new  director  of  Gilbane 
Building  Company's  regional  office  in  Houston. 
Since  starting  at  Gilbane  in  1 970,  Noel  has 
served  as  district  manager  of  business  develop- 
ment in  the  Providence  and  Washington,  D.C. 
regional  offices.  He  has  an  MBA  from  UConn.  A 
Marine  for  20  years,  he  continues  as  a  lieutenant 
colonel  in  the  Marine  Corps  Reserve. 


28 /The  WP1  journal /  Winter  1980 


1962 


Secretary. 
Harry  T  Rapel|e 
1313  Parma  Hilton  Rd 
Hilton,  NY 
14468 


Representative: 
Richard  J.  DiBuono 
44  Lambert  Circle 
Marlboro,  MA 
01752 


Charles  Belanger,  M.D.,  has  moved  from  the 
associate  staff  to  the  active  medical  staff  at 
Hahnemann  Hospital  in  Worcester.  He  has  been 
associated  with  the  hospital  since  1975.  After 
graduating  from  WPI,  he  did  graduate  work  in 
physics  at  the  University  of  Wisconsin  and 
studied  at  Dartmouth  Medical  School.  He  re- 
ceived his  M.D.  from  the  University  of  Vermont, 
and  was  an  intern  and  resident  at  Children's 
Hospital,  Buffalo,  N.Y.  As  a  member  of  the  U.S. 
Army  Medical  Corps,  he  was  assigned  to  Martin 
Army  Hospital,  Fort  Benning,  Ga.  .    .  M.  Philip 
DeCaprio  has  been  promoted  to  manager  of 
engineering  and  operations  program  control  and 
reporting  at  Northeast  Utilities  in  Hartford, 
Conn. . . .  Recently,  Clifford  Engstrom,  manager 
of  the  Middleboro  (Mass.)  Gas  and  Electric 
Department,  was  reelected  to  the  board  of 
directors  of  the  Northeast  Public  Power  Associa- 
tion (NEPPA).  He  has  been  manager  at  Marlboro 
since  1975  and  an  employee  of  the  municipal 
since  1970.  He,  his  wife,  Jane,  and  three  sons 
reside  in  Lakeville.  NEPPA  represents  81 
consumer-owned  electric  utilities  in  New  En- 
gland. 

After  nearly  five  years  in  England,  George 
Forsberg  has  returned  to  the  U.S.  and  is  currently 
a  manager  of  HMD  process  technology  for 
Monsanto  in  Pensacola,  Fla.  .  . .  Martin  Gross 
has  been  named  product  line  manager  responsi- 
ble for  the  direction  and  management  of  the 
modular  analog  and  converter  and  modular 
instrument  product  lines  of  the  Instruments  and 
Systems  Group  at  Analog  Devices,  Norwood, 
Mass.  Since  1968,  he  has  held  a  number  of  sales 
management  positions,  the  most  recent  being 
that  of  manager  of  special  sales  development. 
He  has  an  MSEE  and  MS  in  engineering  man- 
agement from  Northeastern.  He  is  married,  has 
two  children,  and  coaches  youth  soccer  and 
Little  League  in  Sudbury,  Mass.  Analog  Devices 
is  a  leading  supplier  of  electronic  data  acquisition 
products.  . .  .  Verne  Viele  is  with  Harris  Corp., 
Web  Printing  Press  Division,  Pawcatuck,  Conn. 
He  and  his  wife,  Sheila,  have  seven  children.  . . . 
Presently,  Stephen  Wells  holds  the  position  of 
director  of  operations  at  Lever  Bros,  in  New  York 
City. 


1963 


Secretary: 

Robert  E  Maynard,  Jr. 

8  Institute  Rd 

North  Grafton,  MA 

01536 


Representative: 
Joseph  J  Mielinski.  Jr 
34  Pioneer  Rd 
Holden.MA 
01520 


Alan  Elias  is  a  systems  programmer-analyst  at 
Sikorsky  Aircraft  in  Stratford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Robert 
Maynard,  Jr.,  is  the  newly-elected  vice  president 
of  finance  at  R.  H.  White  Construction  Com- 
pany, Inc.,  Auburn,  Mass.  He  is  in  charge  of 
finance  and  administration  for  the  company  and 
its  subsidiaries.  He  holds  an  MBA  from 
Dartmouth's  Amos  Tuck  School  of  Business  Ad- 
ministration. .  .  .  Recently,  Roger  McGee  was 
promoted  to  crude  oil  trading  coordinator  for 
Standard  Oil  Company  of  California  in  San  Fran- 
cisco. He  finds  that  with  unsettled  crude  supply 
at  the  present  time,  his  is  a  very  busy  and 
interesting  assignment.  Previously,  he  was  in- 
volved with  operations  planning  for  Chevron 
USA,  Standard's  domestic  subsidiary.  .  .  .  Wil- 
liam Newhall  continues  with  the  family  com- 
pany, Harwood  Engineering,  in  Walpole,  Mass. 
The  firm  makes  equipment  used  as  the  national 
standard  for  pressure  gauges  by  several  coun- 
tries around  the  world.  Harwood  models  are 
used  in  the  U.S.  Bureau  of  Standards  in 
Washington,  DC.  Copies  of  Harwood  gauge 
calibrators  are  on  display  in  Moscow  and  To- 
koyo.  ...  A.  Stephen  Otis  serves  as  vice  presi- 
dent of  Merrill  Lynch,  in  Los  Angeles.  ...  A. 
Edward  Scherer  has  received  his  MBA  from  the 
RPI  Hartford  Graduate  Center.  .      Bill  Zinno 
continues  at  Dresser  Clark,  Olean,  N.Y.,  where 
he  is  materials  manager. 


I964 

Secretary: 

Dr  David  T  Signon,  Jr 

661 3  Denny  PI 

McLean,  VA 

22101 

J.  Michael  Anderson  is  now  with  Continental 
Can  Company  in  Wayne,  N.J.  .  .  .  Benjamin 
Brunell  holds  the  post  of  manager  of  manufac- 
turing applications  at  Waters  Associates  in  Mil- 
ford,  Mass.  ...  Dr.  James  Kaput,  associate 
professor  of  mathematics  at  Southeastern  Mas- 
sachusetts University,  has  been  named  a  Dan- 
forth  associate.  The  Danforth  Foundation  As- 
sociate Program  recognizes  and  encourages  ef- 
fective teaching  and  fosters  activities  which 
humanize  teaching  and  learning  for  members  of 
campus  communities.  Kaput  joined  the  SMU 
faculty  in  1 968.  He  teaches  algebra,  the  philoso- 
phy of  mathematics,  and  mathematics  educa- 
tion. He  has  an  MA  and  a  PhD  from  Clark Still 

with  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft,  John  Macko  is 
presently  manager  of  government  liaison  for  the 
government  products  division  in  West  Palm 
Beach,  Fla.  .  .  .  William  Phillips  has  been  pro- 
moted to  manufacturing  manager  of  Norton 
Company's  Diamond  Tool  Division.  After  eight 


years  in  Holden,  he  has  relocated  to  North 
Carolina. 

John  Schmidt  is  an  audio-video  systems  en- 
gineer for  the  American  Broadcasting  Company 
in  New  York.    .    Wilbur  Waters,  Jr.,  serves  as  a 
senior  field  engineer-programmer  for  Westing- 
house  in  Baltimore. 


I965 

Representative: 
Patrick  T.  Moran 
100  Chester  Rd 
Boxboro,  MA 
01719 

Continuing  with  Polaroid,  Phil  Baker  is  presently 
project  manager  for  industrial  products  en- 
gineering in  Cambridge.  Recently,  he  spent  two 
months  in  Japan  developing  a  new  camera. 
Twice  a  year,  he  teaches  an  optics  course  during 
Polaroid's  management  seminar  series.  The  Bak- 
ers and  their  two  children  reside  in  Peabody. . . . 
Ronald  Chand,  president  of  ARSEE  Corp., 
Worcester,  reports  that  his  growing  company 
has  moved  to  Oread  St.  in  part  of  a  building  that 
once  housed  General  Screw  Machine  Products 
Co.  His  manufacturing  space  has  increased  from 
2000  to  6000  square  feet.  ARSEE  is  the  only 
carbide  manufacturing  company  in  New  En- 
gland. It  sells  carbide  to  fabricators.  Last  year, 
the  firm  did  about  $250,000  worth  of  business. 
.  .  .  Paul  Schuster  has  been  appointed  head  of 
the  processor  design  department  at  Bell  Labs  in 
Naperville,  III.  He  is  responsible  for  the  design  of 
general  purpose  computers  for  use  in  the  Bell 
System.  Starting  at  Bell  in  1967,  Schuster  was 
initially  involved  in  the  design  of  special-purpose 
hardware  for  the  Navy.  In  1 971 ,  he  was  pro- 
moted to  supervisor  in  the  Ocean  Systems  Divi- 
sion, where  he  was  most  recently  responsible  for 
specialized  computer  design  for  the  Navy.  He 
has  an  MSEE  from  WPI,  and  holds  a  patent  on 
programmable  digital  filter  realization.  .  .  .  Den- 
nis Simanaitis  is  an  editor  with  Road  &  Track 
magazine  in  California.  .  .  .  Robert  Stow  holds 
the  post  of  engineering  manager  at  Singer- 
Kearfott,  Wayne,  N.J.  .  . .  Robert  Waite  is  a 
member  of  the  technical  staff  at  the  Mitre 
Corporation  in  Bedford,  Mass.  He  serves  as 
president  of  the  New  England  Computer 
Society. 


I966 


Representative 
Dr.  Donald  H.  Foley 
Indianfield  Rd. 
Clinton,  NY 
13323 


Secretary: 
Gary  Dyckman 
29Skilton  Lane 
Burlington,  MA 
01803 

^■Married:  John  W.  Benson  II  to  Ingrid  M. 
Laurell  on  July  7,  1979  in  Chatham,  Mas- 
sachusetts. Mrs.  Benson  graduated  from  the 
School  of  Art  Education  at  Virginia's  Common- 
wealth University  in  Richmond.  A  former 
teacher,  she  now  owns  and  operates  The 
Swedish  Butik  in  Chatham.  Her  husband  is  with 
Burton  Industries  in  Pawtucket. 


Winter  1980 /The  WPI  journal/ 29 


>Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Peter  Gray  IV  their 
first  child,  Peter  Gray  V.  ...  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Jay 
Segal  a  son,  Scott,  in  August.  Daughter  Pamela  is 
21/2.  Jay  is  an  attorney  in  New  York  City  and 
resides  in  New  Rochelle. 

Gordon  Eaton  teaches  in  Ludlow,  Mass. . . . 
Dr.  Paul  Glodis  is  a  researcher  in  the  physics 

department  at  U.C.L.A Stephen  Kaiser  of 

Kaiser  Sales  Corporation,  represents  the  Singer 
Company.  The  firm  has  offices  in  Los  Angeles 
and  Whittier,  Calif. . .  .  Roberto  Huyke-Luigi  is 
employed  in  the  department  of  civil  engineering 
at  Recinto  Universitario  de  Mayaguez  in  Puerto 
Rico —  Errold  Moody,  Jr.,  who  has  an  LLB  from 
Lasalle  and  an  MBA  and  PhD  in  real  estate  and 
urban  economics  from  the  University  of  Beverly 
Hills,  is  a  real  estate  analyst  and  consultant  in 
Irvine,  Calif.  .  . .  Donald  Petersen,  Jr.,  has 
transferred  to  Miami  with  IBM,  where  he  is  a 
systems  engineer  on  the  Eastern  Airlines  team 
installing  a  distributed  computer  network  at  all 
the  airports  which  Eastern  services.  . .  .  Michael 
Portanova  is  a  corporate  economist  at  DEC  in 
Marlboro,  Mass. 


1968 


I967 


Secretary 

John  L.  Kilguss 

5  Summershade  Circle 

Piscataway,  NJ 

08854 

^■Married:  Neil  M.  Shea  and  Judith  A.  Thiele  on 
June  16,  1979  in  Troy,  New  York.  The  bride 
received  her  bachelor's  and  master's  degrees  in 
zoology  at  the  University  of  Cincinnati.  She  is  a 
faculty  member  at  Hudson  Valley  Community 
College.  The  groom  teaches  at  North  Shore 
Community  College,  Beverly,  Mass.  He  has  a 
master's  degree  and  doctorate  in  physics  from 
RPI. 

Eugene  Baldrate,  who  is  a  staff  manager  in 
facilities  planning  at  SNETCO,  is  in  his  second 
year  at  the  University  of  Bridgeport  School  of 
Law.  The  Baldrates  and  their  children,  Kelly  and 

Brian,  have  moved  to  Guilford,  Conn Peter 

Bondy  works  for  Xerox  Corporation  in  Roches- 
ter, NY.  .  .  .  Francis  Dacri  continues  as  senior 
research  engineer  at  du  Pont  in  Old  Hickory, 
Tenn.  . . .  Eduardo  Mendez  holds  the  post  of 
project  manager  at  Pavarini  Construction  Co.  in 
Santurce,  Puerto  Rico.  He  and  Anita  have  three 
children.  .  . .  John  Rogozenski,  Jr.,  is  employed 
as  manager  of  development  at  Dunkin'  Donuts 
in  Braintree,  Mass.  .  .  .  Still  with  Carrier  Corp., 
Raymond  Seguin  presently  holds  the  post  of 
manufacturing  manager  at  a  Carrier  division, 

BDP  Company,  in  Indianapolis John  Stumpp 

continues  to  serve  as  an  electronic  engineer  at 
the  National  Security  Agency,  Ft.  Meade,  Md. 


Secretary: 
Charles  A.  Griffin 
2901  Municipal  Pier  Rd 
Shreveport,  LA 
71119 


Representative 
William  J  Rasku 
33  Mark  Bradford  Dr 
Holden,  MA 
01520 

^Married:  Terrence  P.  Sullivan  and  Holly  H. 
Hurd  in  Annisquam,  Massachusetts  on  July  28, 
1979.  Mrs.  Sullivan  graduated  from  Colby- 
Sawyer  College,  New  London,  N.H.  She  is  a 
registered  trader  for  the  municipal  bond  de- 
partment at  Tucker  Anthony  &  R.L.  Day  in 
Boston.  Her  husband  is  president  of  Boston  Bay 
Capital,  Inc.,  which  he  founded.  Sullivan  has  a 
master's  degree  from  UMass.  His  firm  is  a  tax 
shelter  planning  company  placing  investments  in 
oil  and  gas,  real  estate,  and  equipment  leasing. 
.  .  .  Frank  S.  Yazwinski  III  and  Emily  Groves  in 
South  Deerfield,  Massachusetts  on  July  21, 
1979.  The  bride  graduated  from  Hampshire 
College. 

Michael  Annon  has  a  new  post  as  a  senior 
engineer  at  Proto-Power  Management  Corpora- 
tion in  Groton,  Conn Dr.  Charles  Konopka,  a 

mathematics  teacher  at  Longmeadow  (Mass.) 
High  School,  recently  assumed  the  duties  of 
assistant  principal  at  the  school.  He  has  worked 
with  the  Connecticut  State  Department  of  Edu- 
cation, was  an  administrative  assistant-teacher 
with  the  East  Windsor  Board  of  Education,  and 
served  as  a  graduate  research  technician  at 
UConn.,  where  he  received  his  PhD.  Before 
going  to  Longmeadow  in  1977,  he  was  special 
assistant  to  the  Connecticut  commissioner  of 
education. .  .  .  David  Morris  is  a  technical 
specialist  at  Betz  Labs,  Trevose,  Pa.  . .  .  Joseph 
Paquette  holds  the  post  of  general  manager  for 
Wiley  Manufacturing  of  Port  Deposit,  Md.  Wiley 
is  a  unit  of  AMCA  International,  a  wholly-owned 
subsidiary  of  Dominion-AMCA  of  Hanover, 
N.H. ...  Dr.  Richard  Snay  continues  as  a 
geodesist  at  the  National  Oceanic  &  Atmo- 
spheric Administration  in  Rockville,  Md.  .  .  . 
Richard  Vaughn  is  the  regional  sales  manager  at 
Harding  Co.  in  Boston.  He  and  his  wife,  Ann, 
have  three  children  and  reside  in  Fitchburg. 


I969 


Secretary  Representative 

James  P.  Atkinson  Michael  W  Noga 

41  Naples  Rd.  West  Bare  Hill  Rd 

Brookline,  MA  Harvard,  MA 

02146  01451 

>Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Daniel  C.  Pond  their  first 
child,  a  daughter,  Jennifer  Katherine,  on  August 
9,  1979.  Dan  is  a  senior  engineer  at  Martin 
Marietta  Aerospace,  Denver  Division,  and  en- 
joys very  much  the  casual  Colorado  life  style. . . . 
to  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Joseph  A.  Senecal  their  third 
child,  Brian  Albert,  on  August  8,  1979.  Their 
other  children  are  Emily,  5  and  Eric,  2.  Joe  is  a 
senior  engineer  with  Polaroid's  Chemical  Devel- 
opment Laboratories  in  Cambridge,  Mass. 


James  Atkinson,  who  is  attending  the  New 
England  School  of  Law  in  Boston,  also  holds  the 
post  of  assistant  contract  document  coordinator 
at  Massachusetts  Bay  Transportation  Authority 
in  Boston.  .  .  .  Normand  Bachand  continues  as  a 
staff  psychologist  at  Clinton  County  Mental 
Health  Clinic  in  Plattsburgh,  N.Y.  He  enjoys 
jogging  and  reading.  He  and  Carol  have  two 
children.  .  .  .  Tony  Bergantino,  Jr.,  remains  with 
Polaroid,  and  is  now  the  technical  support  man- 
ager. He  manages  the  pilot  coating  facility  for 
Polaroid's  Applied  Technology  Division. .  . . 
Kenneth  Berube,  who  belongs  to  the  Central 
Mass.  Conference  of  Football  Officials,  also 
serves  as  purchasing  manager  at  Boston  Insu- 
lated Wire  in  Dorchester.  The  Berubes  live  in 

Oxford  and  are  the  parents  of  Alan  and  Carla 

William  Boyan  works  as  an  estimator  of  con- 
struction costs  at  Circle  Industries  Corp.,  Bronx, 
N.Y.  He  and  his  wife,  Karen,  live  in  Tenafly,  N.J. 
.  .  .  Michael  Cohen  holds  the  post  of  marketing 
representative  at  STSC,  Inc.,  an  international 
computer  services  company  in  Boston. . .  .  Joel 
Cehn  is  a  health  physicist  at  Teknekron  Re- 
search, Inc.,  McLean,  Va.  His  work  involves 
evaluating  all  the  various  sources  of  radioactive 
air  pollutants  for  the  EPA.  In  his  spare  time,  he 
sails,  roller  skates  and  makes  furniture. . . . 
Charles  Doe  has  been  promoted  to  associate 
actuary  within  the  actuarial  organization  at  State 
Mutual  Life  Assurance  Company  of  America  in 
Worcester.  He  joined  State  Mutual  as  an  actuar- 
ial assistant  in  1969.  He  served  as  an  actuarial 
associate  and  senior  actuarial  associate  prior  to 
being  promoted  to  assistant  actuary  in  the  com- 
pany's group  term  and  health  organization.  He 
has  a  master's  in  actuarial  science  from  North- 
eastern. In  1 977,  he  became  a  fellow  of  the 
Society  of  Actuaries. 

In  August,  Warren  Follet  joined  Advanced 
Micro  Devices,  Inc.  of  Sunnyvale,  Calif.  He  is  a 
field  applications  engineer  based  in  the  Boston 
area.  Rick,  his  wife,  and  two  children  live  in 

Westford,  Mass Richard  Gurske  continues  in 

Denver,  where  he  is  senior  environmental  en- 
gineer at  Northern  Coal  Company. .  . .  Gordon 
Mears  has  accepted  the  post  of  purchasing 
manager  at  American  Tourister  in  Warren,  R.I. 
.  .  .  James  Hills  has  started  a  new  business, 
Custom  Valves  &  Control  Corp.,  in  Worcester. 
The  company  engineers,  designs,  and  fabricates 
specialty  valves  and  control  packages  for  the 
process  control  market.  For  eleven  years  he  was 
engineering  manager  for  Worcester  Controls 
before  going  into  business  for  himself.  . .  .  Still 
with  Jones  Enterprises,  Inc.,  East  Hartford, 
Conn.,  Ronald  Jones  presently  holds  the  post  of 
vice  president  and  general  manager. 

Last  fall,  Donald  Robinson  was  named  assist- 
ant manager  of  Massachusetts  Electric  Com- 
pany's Hopedale  district.  Formerly,  he  was  an 
energy  systems  consultant  for  Mass.  Electric's 
parent  company,  New  England  Electric.  In  that 
post,  he  coordinated  the  firm's  solar  water  heat- 
ing test  project,  recognized  as  a  national  model 
for  solar  application  in  a  freezing  climate.  In  his 
new  position,  he  has  coordinated  five  energy 
fairs  (including  one  at  WPI)  sponsored  by  Mass. 
Electric  and  its  affiliates.  He  joined  the  company 
in  1972  as  a  consumer  services  representative. 


30 /The  WPI  journal/  Winter  1980 


He  served  in  Vietnam  with  the  1 01  st  Airborne  as 
an  artillery  officer.  The  Robinsons  reside  in 

Shrewsbury Frederick  Spreter  is  employed  as 

regional  sales  manager  at  Gould,  Inc.,  Atlanta, 
Ga. .  .  .  Paul  Wolf  has  been  appointed  co- 
manager  of  the  TSM  Planning  Group  at  the 
Northeast  Ohio  Areawide  Coordinating  Agency. 
His  duties  include  responsibility  for  all  highway- 
related  transportation  systems  management 
planning  with  five  counties  surrounding  Cleve- 
land. In  the  past  year,  Paul  has  developed  an 
improved  version  of  the  Transyt/6  computer 
program  for  optimization  of  traffic  signal  timing 
patterns. 


I970 


Secretary 

F  David  Ploss  III 

208  St  Nicholas  Ave 

Worcester.  MA 

01606 


Representative 
Garrett  G  Graham 
1 50  Brookside  Rd 
Needham,  MA 
02194 


^■Married:  Richard  G.  Drolet  to  Gloria  R.  Breault 
in  Cumberland,  Rhode  Island  on  August  17, 
1979.  Mrs.  Drolet  is  attending  Bryant  College. 
The  bridegroom  works  for  Valley  Gas  Co.  in 
Cumberland.  He  has  a  degree  from  URI. 

*Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  J.  Gale  twin 
sons,  Michael  and  David,  on  October  2,  1979. 
The  family,  which  now  includes  three  sons,  is 
spending  the  winter  in  Florida.  Gale  is  the  golf 

pro  at  Rochester  (N.H.)  Country  Club to  Mr. 

and  Mrs.  Frank  Vernile,  theirfirst child,  adaugh- 
ter,  Sarah  Marie,  on  September  13,  1979. 

Philip  Bartlett,  Jr.,  has  been  appointed  sales 
manager  for  the  southwest  district  of 
Cyanamid's  paper  chemicals  department  and  is 
moving  to  Mobile,  Alabama.  Formerly,  he  was  a 
technical  sales  representative  for  water  treating 
and  mining  chemicals  for  the  firm.  In  1977,  he 
was  named  assistant  to  the  marketing  manager, 
paper  chemicals.  He  belongs  to  the  ACS,  AICE, 
the  Technical  Association  of  the  Pulp  and  Paper 
Industry,  and  has  an  MBA  from  the  University  of 
Southern  California. . . .  Bernard  Dodge  is  now  a 
research  associate  at  Development  &  Evaluation 
Associates  in  Syracuse,  N.Y.  He  is  also  a  consul- 
tant to  XIMED  Research,  Inc.  . . .  Jonathan 
Leavitt  continues  as  chief  test  engineer  at  Com- 
bustion Engineering-KSB  Pump  Co.,  Inc., 
Portsmouth,  N.H.  He  and  Frances  have  two 
children  and  reside  in  Exeter.  .  .  .  John  Redmon, 
who  holds  an  MSEE  from  WPI,  is  still  an  educa- 
tion administrator  at  Pennsylvania  Power  & 
Light  Co.,  Allentown,  Pa. 


1971 

Secretary: 
Vincent  T  Pace 
4707  Apple  Lane 
WestDeptford.NJ 
08066 

>Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Daniel  J.  Dunleavy  a 
son,  John,  on  February  28,  1979.  ...  to  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Leo  R.  Gillis,  Jr.,  a  son,  Kevin  Michael,  on 
July  27, 1979.  Leo  has  accepted  a  position  in  the 
transmission  department  of  Northeast  Utilities  in 
Berlin,  Conn. ...  to  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Richard  San 
Antonio  a  daughter,  Marianne  Camille,  on 
March  29,  1 979.  Richard  is  a  resident  in  internal 
medicine  at  Walter  Reed  Army  Medical  Center  in 
Washington,  D.C. 

Paul  Cooper,  Jr.,  recently  received  a  service 
award  from  the  New  England  Division,  U.S. 
Army  Corps  of  Engineers.  He  was  cited  for  his 
willingness  to  assume  new  and  challenging  re- 
sponsibilities. He  and  his  wife,  Maureen,  reside 
in  Maiden,  Mass.  .  .  .  Carlton  Cruff  has  changed 
jobs  and  is  now  working  as  a  project  engineer  for 
Homogeneous  Metals,  Inc.,  where  he  is  in 
charge  of  a  new  plant  expansion.  The  firm 
produces  powdered  metal  for  the  jet  engine 
companies.  ...  Dr.  Claude  Mancel,  who  has 
been  associated  since  1973  with  the  R&D  Euro- 
pean Division  of  Procter  &  Gamble,  was  recently 
promoted  to  associate  director.  He  lives  in  Brus- 
sels, Belgium,  with  his  wife  and  three  children. 
.  .  .  John  Plonsky  works  as  a  contract  adminis- 
trator at  Sikorsky  Aircraft  in  Stratford,  Conn. 


1972 


Secretary- 
John  A  Woodward 
101  Putnam  St 
Orange,  MA 
01364 


Representative: 

Lesley  E.  Small  Zorabedian 

16  Parkview  Rd. 

Reading,  MA 

01867 


^Married:  Ralph  A.  Blackmer  and  Stacey  A. 
Wagner  on  September  29,  1 979  in  Orange, 
Massachusetts.  The  bride,  a  medical 
technologist,  graduated  from  Framingham  State 
College.  The  groom  has  an  MS  in  management 
science  and  engineering  from  WPI.  He  is  man- 
ager of  sterile  operations  at  Smith,  Kline  & 

French  Corp.,  Philadelphia Mark  A.  Fritz  and 

Margaret  McDermott.  Mrs.  Fritz  is  a  typesetter 
at  Wang  Laboratories,  where  her  husband,  who 
has  an  MBA  from  New  Hampshire  College, 
works  as  a  systems  analyst  trainer. . . .  Joseph  V. 
Gotta  and  Eileen  C.  Boisjolie  in  Easthampton, 
Massachusetts  on  September  1 , 1 979.  The  bride 
graduated  from  St.  Francis  School  of  Nursing, 
Hartford,  and  is  a  registered  nurse  at  Providence 
Hospital,  Holyoke.  The  bridegroom  has  an  MBA 
from  Western  New  England  College.  He  is  coor- 
dinator of  product  development  at  Ludlow 
Packaging,  Holyoke,  Mass.  . .  .  William  D. 
Singleton,  Jr.,  and  Lee  A.  Rademacher  in  Fal- 
mouth, Massachusetts  on  June  9,  1979.  Mrs. 
Singleton  graduated  from  Michigan  State  Uni- 
versity. She  is  a  sales  representative-editorial 


assistant  at  Goodyear  Publishing  Co.  Her  hus- 
band is  a  marketing  consultant  in  the  Boston 
area. 

►fiorn.  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Walter  L.  Ballard,  a 
daughter,  Heather  Ann,  on  Mother's  Day,  May 
13,  1979.  ...  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Henry  Greene,  a 
son,  on  December  26,  1978.  Greene  now  works 
as  a  mathematics  instructor  at  Salisbury  State 
College  in  Maryland. ...  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robert 
Shawver  their  first  child,  Matthew  Arthur,  on 
July  16,  1979.  Shawver  is  a  flow  monitoring 
service  unit  supervisor  for  the  Washington  Sub- 
urban Sanitary  Commission.  He  and  his  family 
live  in  Bowie,  Md. 

Al  Heaney  has  moved  to  Clearwater,  Fla.  He 
recently  joined  Sperry  Microwave  Electronics  as 
an  engineering  staff  consultant.  .  .  .  Jeff  and 
Mary  Bollino  Petry,  '74  and  children,  Jeff,  Jr.,  5, 
Tony,  4,  and  Laura,  2,  have  moved  to  Detroit, 
Michigan.  Jeff,  still  with  Torrington  Co.,  has 
taken  over  Hydromatic  for  the  firm.  Mary  keeps 
busy  with  the  children.  .  .  .  Robert  Pascucci  has 
graduated  from  St.  John's  University  School  of 
Law,  where  he  received  a  Juris  Doctor  degree. 
He  has  accepted  a  position  with  the  law  firm  of 
Max  E.  Greenberg,  Trayman,  Cantor,  Reiss  & 
Blasky  in  New  York  City.  The  Pascuccis  have  a 
year-old  son,  Brian.  .  .  .  Wesley  Pierson  is  a 
clinical  research  associate  at  Riker  Laboratories,' 
3M,  in  St.  Paul,  Minn.  . . .  Alain  Roux  is 
associated  with  ELF,  a  French  petroleum  com- 
pany. 


1973 

Secretary 

lay  I.  Schnitzer 

322  St.  Paul  St. 

Apt  #3 
Brookhne,  MA 
02146 

^■Married:  Joyce  L.  Caplovich  to  Randy  A. 
Wilson  on  October  6,  1979  in  Cromwell,  Con- 
necticut. Mrs.  Caplovich  is  a  data  processing 
consultant  at  Comtech,  Inc.  in  East  Hartford.  Her 
husband  graduated  from  Thiel  College,  and  is  a 
data  processing  consultant  at  Michrotech,  Inc., 
Simsbury,  Conn.  .  .    Raymond  F.  Cherenzia  and 
Rhonda  C.  Zanella  on  August  1 1 ,  1979  in  Mis- 
quamicut,  Rhode  Island.  The  bride  graduated 
from  Mount  St.  Joseph  College.  She  teaches  in 
the  Westerly  school  system.  The  groom  holds 
the  post  of  town  engineer  for  the  Westerly 
Department  of  Public  Works.  Recently,  he  re- 
ceived his  professional  engineering  license  from 

the  State  of  Rhode  Island 

^Married:  John  J.  Luikey,  Jr.,  to  Lynn  S. 
Knight  in  Knox,  Pennsylvania  on  August  3, 
1979.  Mrs.  Luikey,  a  registered  nurse,  graduated 
from  Clarion  (Pa.)  State  College.  The  groom  is  a 
project  engineer  at  Quabaug  Rubber  Co. ,  North 
Brookfield,  Mass.  .  .  .  Richard  C.  Peck  and  Mary 
E.  Kowalski  on  September  8,  1979  in  Meriden, 
Connecticut.  The  bride  graduated  from  Central 
Connecticut  State  College.  .  . .  Gary  N.  Shapiro 
to  Pamela  J.  Ciardelli  on  June  24,  1979  in 
Milford,  New  Hampshire.  Mrs.  Shapiro 
graduated  from  Wilton  Lyndeboro  Cooperative 


Winter  1980 /The  WPI  journal/ 31 


High  School  and  plans  to  attend  the  University  of 
Lowell  as  a  chemical  engineering  major.  The 
bridegroom  is  a  mathematics  teacher  in  the 
Andover  school  system.  He  has  an  M.Ed,  from 
Boston  University. . . .  Ralph  J.  Veenema,  Jr.,  and 
Janet  B.  Biancur  on  September  1 ,  1979  in 
Orange,  Connecticut.  The  bride  has  a  BS  degree 
in  art  education  and  an  MS  in  early  childhood 
education  from  Southern  Connecticut  State  Col- 
lege. Her  husband  holds  an  MSME  from  UMass, 
Amherst. 

►Som.  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Charles  Kavanagh,  a 
son,  "C.J.,"  on  April  18, 1979.  Kavanagh  is 
projects  manager  of  three  sites  in  northern 
Nigeria,  where  he  has  lived  for  two  years.  ...  to 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Stuart  Wallack,  a  daughter, 
Rachel,  on  July  10, 1979.  Wallack  has  been 
transferred  by  Torrington  Co.  to  Brighton, 
Michigan. 

Steven  Brennan,  a  general  engineer  at  Naval 
Ordnance  Station,  Indian  Head,  Md.,  is  working 

on  the  Navy  surface-to-air  missile  programs 

Currently,  Alan  Champagne  is  located  in  Ship- 
pingport,  Pa.  with  Stone  &  Webster. . . .  Still  with 
GE,  John  Gizienski  is  now  a  manager  of  man- 
ufacturing engineering  for  the  company  in 
Ponce,  Puerto  Rico.  . . .  Wallace  McKenzie,  Jr., 
has  been  appointed  a  consultant  to  the  Planning 
Services  Division  of  Management  Decision  Sys- 
tems, Inc.  of  Waltham,  Mass.  MDS  is  a 
privately-held,  national  leader  in  the  develop- 
ment and  use  of  problem-solving  models  and 
computer  software  for  business  analysis  and 
planning.  In  his  new  post,  McKenzie  will  help 
major  companies  build  models  to  help  their 
businesses.  Prior  to  joining  MDS,  he  was  senior 
operations  research  analyst  for  the  Converse 
Division  of  Eltra  Corp.  and  research  associate  at 
WPI .  He  has  an  MBA  from  RPI .  He  belongs  to  the 
Operations  Research  Society  of  America,  the 
American  Institute  of  Industrial  Engineers,  and 
the  Saugus  (Mass.)  Finance  Committee.  He  has 
served  as  area  chairman  for  special  gifts  of  the 

American  Cancer  Society Scott  Blackney  is 

with  Raytheon  Co.,  Wayland,  Mass. 

Garry  Boynton  is  now  a  senior  chemist  in  the 
New  York  State  Department  of  Agriculture  and 

Markets  in  Albany,  N.Y Dan  Eide  was 

recently  transferred  from  Hammond  Plastics  in 
Owensboro,  Ky.,  to  Carl  Gordon  Industries,  Inc. 
in  Worcester,  where  he  is  vice  president  of 
manufacturing  and  engineering.  The  Eides  have 
two  children  and  reside  in  West  Boylston,  Mass. 
. .  .  Claude  Lemoi  works  as  manager  of  shop 
operations  at  GE  in  Lynn,  Mass. . . .  John  Manzo 
is  employed  as  manager  of  Raytheon  Company 
in  Moorestown,  N.J. . .  .  Ragunath  Mhapsekar 
has  been  named  as  an  estimator  at  the  Schnip 
Building  Company  of  Norwich,  Conn.  He  will 
provide  the  company  with  estimating  expertise 
in  the  design-build  concept  of  facilities  expan- 
sion. . . .  William  Nutter  is  field  service  engineer 
at  General  Electric  Ordnance,  Cape  Canaveral, 
Fla.  He  is  a  member  of  the  Trident  backfit 
installation  and  test  team.  He  also  serves  as 
resident  magnetic  disk  file  expert. ...  Dr. 
Philippe  Peltre  holds  the  post  of  branch  man- 
ager for  the  French  subsidiary  of  Procter  & 
Gamble. 


Beth  Poulin  is  a  consulting  engineer  for 
Foster-Miller  Associates  in  Waltham,  Mass.  She 
works  on  alternative  energy  projects  as  a  project 
engineer.  . .  .  Daniel  Robbins  is  studying  for  his 
master  of  fine  arts  degree  at  Ohio  University  in 
Athens. ...  Dr.  John  Ward  has  accepted  a 
position  as  a  meteorologist  with  the  develop- 
ment division  of  the  National  Meteorological 
Center  in  Washington,  D.C. 


1974 


Secretary: 
James  F.  Rubino 
18  Landings  Way 
Avon  Lake.  OH 
44012 


Representative 
David  G.  Lapre 
P  O  Box  384 
Tunkhannock,  PA 
18657 


►A/lamed.  David  A.  Gerth  to  Miss  Angela  A. 
Ralli  in  Norwood,  Massachusetts.  The  bride 
holds  BS  and  MS  degrees  from  Bridgewater  State 
College.  She  is  a  special  needs  teacher  in  Belling- 
ham,  Mass.  The  groom,  who  has  an  MBA  from 
Amos  Tuck  School  at  Dartmouth,  is  a  CPA 
employed  as  a  management  consultant  in  the 
administrative  services  division  of  Arthur  Ander- 
son Co.  in  Boston Alfred  J.  Swierad,  Jr.,  and 

Colleen  A.  Maroney  in  Canton,  New  York  on 
June  16, 1979.  The  bride,  a  graduate  of  Alfred 
State  College,  is  a  senior  technical  assistant  at 
Bell  Laboratories,  Holmdel,  N.J.,  where  her  hus- 
band is  a  member  of  the  technical  staff.  He  has  a 
degree  from  Texas  A&M  University. .  .  .  Mark  J. 
Whitney  and  Carolyn  L.  Noel  on  July  14, 1 979  in 
Connecticut.  Mrs.  Whitney  has  a  BA  in  English 
and  theater  arts  from  Notre  Dame  Academy  and 
College  of  White  Plains,  N.Y.  The  bridegroom 
works  as  a  cost  engineer  at  Northeast  Utilities 
Co. 

>-Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  Martin,  a  sec- 
ond son,  David  Michael,  on  July  25,  1979. 
Martin  recently  received  his  Massachusetts  pro- 
fessional engineering  license.  He  works  as  a 
project  engineer  in  the  plant  engineering  de- 
partment of  Monsanto's  Bircham  Bend  Plant  in 
Springfield,  Mass. ...  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Glenn 
Yee,  a  son,  Nicholas,  in  Hong  Kong  on  March  2 1 , 
1979. 

Alan  Anderson  works  as  a  statistician  for  the 
U  S.  Bureau  of  the  Census.  Also,  he  is  continuing 
work  on  a  dissertation  for  his  PhD  in  biostatistics 
from  the  University  of  North  Carolina  at  Chapel 

Hill Dean  Anderson  is  a  project  engineer  for 

Perini  Corp.,  Framingham,  Mass —  In  the  Sept. 
27th  issue  of  Engineering  News  Record,  Garry 
Balboni,  a  project  engineer  for  Perini  Corp., 
Framingham,  was  quoted  in  the  article,  "Perma- 
nent Slurry  Trench  Walls  Cut  Subway  Cost  and 
Disruption.". . .  .  Currently,  Jonathan  Barnett 
serves  as  assistant  director  of  the  Center  for  Fire 
Safety  Studies  at  WPI.  He  is  also  a  part-time 
instructor  of  mechanical  engineering  and  a  doc- 
toral candidate  in  fire  protection  engineering. . 
Michel  Benoit  serves  as  superintendent  of  lime 

and  limestone  at  Pfizer,  Inc.,  Canaan,  Conn 

Continuing  with  Gould,  Inc.,  Bill  Delphos  is 
now  director  of  international  in  the  Fluid  Power 
Group,  Rolling  Meadows,  III. ...  Jim  Ingraham  is 
employed  as  supervisor  of  the  silver  emulsion 


production  group  at  Polaroid  Corporation's  New 
Bedford  (Mass.)  negative  manufacturing  plant. 

Alan  Judd  is  now  senior  manufacturing  en- 
gineer at  Cleaver  Brooks  Co.  in  Pennsylvania,  a 
division  of  Aqua  Chem,  Inc.,  which  is  a  wholly- 
owned  subsidiary  of  Coca  Cola  Co. .  .  .  Capt. 
Thomas  Kielick,  U.S.  Army  Signal  Corps,  Ft. 
Devens,  Mass.,  presently  serves  as  company 
commander  of  Signal  Company,  supporting  the 
10th  Special  Forces  Group  (Airborne)  known  as 

the  Green  Berets Roland  Lariviere  continues 

with  Combustion  Engineering.  He  is  a  senior 
quality  assurance  engineer  for  the  firm  in 
Windsor,  Conn.  .  .  .  Bob  Lindberg  has  been 
assigned  by  the  Naval  Research  Laboratory  to 
Columbia  University,  where  he  will  be  pursuing 
research  in  large  satellite  control  theories.  He  is 
also  working  on  his  doctorate  in  mechanical 
engineering. 

William  Lisk  works  as  a  broadcast  engineer  at 

Taft  Broadcasting,  Buffalo,  N.Y Richard 

Loomis,  who  has  an  MS  from  Berkeley,  is  with 
Loomis  &  Loomis,  Inc.,  in  Windsor,  Conn. . . . 
Larry  Martiniano,  still  with  Stone  &  Webster,  is 
presently  a  construction  coordinator  in  Cherry 
Hill,  N.J. .  . .  Suresh  Masand  now  works  as 
marketing  manager  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp., 
Nashua,  N.H. 

John  Mason  III  has  taken  a  job  as  an  applica- 
tions engineer  designing  heat  exchangers  at 
Lytron,  Inc.,  in  Woburn,  Mass.  The  Masons  have 
moved  into  their  new  house  in  Chelmsford. . . . 
Formerly  a  consultant  with  Booz  Allen  Hamilton, 
Steve  McGrath  is  currently  manager  of  strategic 
planning  for  special  projects  at  American  Optical 

in  Southbridge,  Mass David  Packard  has 

joined  the  production  department  of  the  Public 
Service  Company  of  New  Hampshire,  the  state's 
largest  electric  utility.  Previously,  he  was  a  ser- 
vice engineer  with  Combustion  Engineering  in 
Houston,  Texas.  The  Packards  live  in  Goffstown, 
N.H. .  .  .  Hercules  Paskali  holds  the  post  of 
technical  sales  representative  at  U.S.  Steel  in 
Baton  Rouge,  La. .  . .  Jim  Rubino,  former  district 
manager  for  Torrington  Co.  in  Cleveland,  is 
presently  with  the  firm  in  Indianapolis. . .  . 
Douglas  Schmidt  is  a  student  at  Palmer  Chiro- 
practic College.  The  Schmidts  and  their  two 
children  live  in  Davenport,  Iowa. . .  .  Geary 
Schwartz  has  accepted  the  post  of  varsity  head 
football  coach  at  Stafford  Springs,  Conn.  It  is  the 
first  football  program  at  the  school.  Geary 
graduated  from  the  University  of  Bridgeport, 
and  has  taught  math  at  Weaver  High  School  in 
Hartford.  He  has  also  coached  football  at  the 
University  of  Bridgeport,  Southern  Connecticut 
College,  and  UConn.  He  was  assistant  broadcast 
er  on  the  radio  for  Bridgeport's  home  games. 
Recently  discharged  from  the  Army,  David 
Scott  is  now  attending  Western  New  England 

College  School  of  Law  in  Springfield,  Mass 

Kenneth  Shankle  works  as  a  facilities  engineer 
for  the  U.S.  Navy  at  the  Naval  Regional  Medical 
Center  at  Camp  Lejeune,  N.C.  He  and  his  wife, 
June,  have  two  children.  .  .  .  William  Stafford  is 
branch  manager  of  Walker  Laboratories'  new 
office  in  Charlotte,  N.C.  The  company  is  con- 
cerned with  soils,  concrete,  and  steel  testing. . . . 


32 /The  WPI  journal /  Winter  1980 


Dean  Stratouly  holds  the  post  of  manager  of 
Gordon  Systems  Division  of  Carl  Gordon  Indus- 
tries, Inc.,  in  Worcester Andrew  Wemple  has 

been  promoted  to  assistant  actuary  within  the 
actuarial  organization  at  State  Mutual  in 
Worcester.  In  1974,  he  started  work  at  the  firm, 
and  was  promoted  to  actuarial  associate  in  1 976. 
In  1978,  he  was  advanced  to  senior  actuarial 
associate  within  the  individual  health  actuarial 
organization.  Later  that  year,  he  transferred  to 
the  group  actuarial.  He  is  a  fellow  of  the  Society 
of  Actuaries. 


1975 


Secretary 

James  D  Aceto,  Jr. 
70  Sunnyview  Dr. 
Vernon,  CT 
06066 


Representative 
Frederick  J.  Cordelia 
24  Imperial  Rd. 
Worcester,  MA 
01604 


^■Married:  Mark  R.  Cosenza  and  Laura-Kay 
Racicot  in  Shrewsbury,  Massachusetts  on  Au- 
gust 19, 1979.  Mrs.  Cosenza,  head  teacher  at 
Happy  Hours  Nursery  School  in  Marlboro, 
Mass.,  graduated  from  Worcester  State,  and  is 
currently  working  for  her  master's  degree.  The 
bridegroom  serves  as  technical  superintendent 
at  Polaroid  Corp.,  Waltham,  Mass.  .  . .  Frederick 
P.  Greulich  and  Maureen  R.  Dillon  in  Worcester 
on  May  27,  1 979.  Mrs.  Greulich  has  a  BA  from 
Holy  Cross  and  an  MA  from  Brown.  She  teaches 
Latin  at  the  Spence  School  in  New  York  City.  Her 
husband  is  a  manufacturing  manager  for  Procter 
&  Gamble  Mfg.  Co.,  Port  Ivory,  Staten  Island, 
N.Y. . . .  Walter  H.  Hoskins  to  Peggy  R.  Hebert 
on  May  26, 1979  in  Worcester.  The  bride,  a 
graduate  of  Doherty  Memorial  High  School,  is 
employed  by  Mass.  Materials  Research,  Inc., 
West  Boylston.  The  groom  works  as  an  actuarial 
associate  at  State  Mutual. 

Patricia  Pfeiffer  and  Salvatore  L.  Salamone  on 
July  1 ,  1979  in  Tewksbury,  Massachusetts.  The 
bride  and  groom  are  graduate  students  in  the 
physics  department  at  Boston  College. . . . 
Jeffrey  A.  Webber  to  Jayne  A.  DiNicola  on 
September  7, 1979  in  Pittsfield,  Massachusetts. 
Mrs.  Webber  is  physical  activities  director  of  the 
Girls  Club.  She  has  degrees  from  Berkshire 
Community  College  and  Lyndon  (Vt.)  State  Col- 
lege. Her  husband  has  done  graduate  work  at 
RPI.  He  is  a  data  technician  at  GE  Ordnance 
Systems.  .  .  .  Todd  E.  Whitakerand  Patricia  J. 
Massaro  in  New  London,  Connecticut  on  Oc- 
tober 7,  1979.  The  bride,  a  teacher  in  East  Lyme, 
graduated  from  Central  Connecticut  State  Col- 
lege and  Southern  Connecticut  State  College. 
The  groom  is  with  the  Naval  Underwater  Sys- 
tems Center  in  New  London. 

^Born:  to  John  and  Virginia  Giordano 
FitzPatrick,  their  first  child,  a  daughter,  Cara 
Ann,  on  September20, 1979.  John  is  with  Exxon 

Research  &  Engineering  in  Florham  Park,  N.J 

to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  William  C.  Rutter,  their  first 
child,  a  son,  Andrew  William,  on  March  26, 
1979. 


Raymond  Acciardi  holds  the  post  of  supervis- 
ing civil  engineer  atthe  U.S.  Bureau  of  Reclama- 
tion in  Denver,  Colo.  He  and  his  wife,  Jeannette, 
live  in  Lakewood.  .  .  .  Jon  Anderson  of  Wil- 
mington, Del.,  is  beginning  his  second  year  as  a 
law  clerk  for  U.S.  District  Court  Judge  Caleb 
Wright.  During  his  clerkship,  the  Judge  has  been 
working  to  decide  patents  upon  crystalline 
polypropylene  and  a  man-made  rubber.  Re- 
cently, Anderson  published  in  the  Columbia 
Journal  of  Environmental  Law  an  article  critiqu- 
ing from  legal  and  technical  viewpoints,  Secre- 
tary of  Transportation  Coleman's  decision  per- 
mitting the  Concorde  to  land  in  the  U.S.  The 
article  was  titled:  "Decision  Analysis  in  Environ- 
mental Decisionmaking:  Improving  the  Con- 
corde Balance."  Anderson  holds  a  Juris  Doctor 
degree  from  Yale.  .  .  .  Alan  Bergstrom,  who 
received  his  MS  in  biochemistry  from  UMass  a 
year  ago,  is  now  an  associate  in  research  in  the 
Department  of  Dermatology  at  Yale  University 
School  of  Medicine  in  New  Haven,  Conn.  . .  . 
Patricia  Graham  has  been  nominated  as  one  of 
the  "Outstanding  Young  Women  of  America" 
for  1979.  The  honor  recognizes  young  women 
throughout  the  nation  for  professional  achieve- 
ment and  community  service.  Nominated  by 
Central  New  England  College  of  Technology, 
Pat  is  a  teacher  at  Assabet  Valley  Regional 
Technical  High  School  and  at  Central  New  En- 
gland College. 

Bill  Gregory  continues  as  a  manufacturing 
engineer  at  Boston  Insulated  Wire  &  Cable  in 
Plymouth,  Mass.  The  Gregorys  have  two  sons. 
. .  .  Still  with  GE,  John  Greenstreet  is  now  an 
analyst  in  computer  applications.  He  and  his  wife 
Barbara  reside  in  Baldwinsville,  N.Y. .  .  .  Spencer 
Liberty  works  as  a  chemist  in  Newton,  Mass. . . . 
Paul  Loomis  has  taken  a  new  job  at  Olin  Corpo- 
ration in  New  Haven,  Conn.  He  is  with  the 
chemicals  group  in  technical  service.  .  .  .  Robert 
Martin,  who  has  an  MSEE  from  MIT,  serves  as 
field  applications  engineer  at  Intel  Corp., 
Chelmsford,  Mass.  .  .  .  Charles  May  has  trans- 
ferred from  Charlotte,  N.C.  to  Tampa,  Fla., 

where  he  is  a  sales  engineer  with  Dana  Corp 

Stephen  Mealy  was  recently  appointed  to  a 
three-year  term  on  the  town  finance  committee 
in  Bourne,  Mass.  He  works  for  Benthos  Co.  of 
North  Falmouth.  .  . .  Martin  Meyers  serves  as  a 
member  of  the  technical  staff  at  Bell  Labs  in 
North  Andover,  Mass.  He  has  a  PhD  in  electrical 
engineering  from  UMass.  He  is  married  to  Cathy 
Seymour,  '77.  .  .  .  Kevin  Mischler  has  received 
his  master  of  public  administration  degree  from 
the  Austin  Dunham  Barney  School  of  Business 
and  Public  Administration  at  the  University  of 
Hartford. .  .  .  Frank  Moitoza  is  presently  a 
weapons  system  management  trainee  for  the 
Naval  Sea  Systems  Command  in  Keyport, 
Washington.  The  management  development 
program  consists  of  rotational  assignments  in 
many  naval  activities  around  the  country. . . . 


1976 


Secretary: 
Paula  E  Stratouly 
318Thornberry  Court 
Pittsburgh,  PA 
15237 


Representative: 
Richard  P  Predella,  Jr. 
40  Hawthorn  Rd 
Braintree,  MA 
02184 


^■Married:  David  F.  Andel  and  Paula  J.  Culver  in 
Stratford,  Connecticut  on  June  16,  1979.  The 
bride  graduated  from  Albertus  College  and  is  a 
program  performance  measurement  coor- 
dinator at  Avco  Lycoming,  Stratford,  Conn.  Her 
husband  is  with  Wilson  Instruments,  a  division  of 
ACCO  Industries  in  Bridgeport,  where  he  is  a 
machine  designer.  .  .  .  Paul  J.  Carabello  to 
Charlotte  A.  Nelligan  in  Belmont,  Mas- 
sachusetts. Mrs.  Carabello  is  a  registered  nurse. 
She  studied  at  St.  Elizabeth's  Hospital  School  of 
Nursing.  The  bridegroom  works  for  MPB  Corpo- 
ration, Keene.  .  .  .  Wayne  F.  Dyer  to  Joan  S. 
Mitchell  in  Wellesley,  Massachusetts  on  July  21 , 
1 979.  The  bride  is  a  Wellesley  graduate,  and  is  a 
procedures  auditor  for  the  Northeast  Division  of 
the  American  Mutual  Insurance  Companies.  Her 
husband  is  a  computer  programmer  for  Ameri- 
can Mutual  Insurance  Co.,  Wakefield,  Mass. 
Previously,  he  had  taught  science  at  Hollis  (N.H.) 
High  School  and  at  Minuteman  Regional  Voca- 
tional High  School  in  Lexington,  Mass. 

^■Married:  Roger  G.  Leighton  and  Susan  E. 
Barrett  last  summer  in  New  York.  Mrs.  Leighton 
graduated  from  Moody  Bible  Institute,  Chicago. 
The  bridegroom  works  for  Eastman  Kodak  Co.  as 

a  tool  engineer Michael  G.  Menesale  to  Ellen 

A.  Brill  on  January  6,  1979.  The  bride  graduated 
from  Anna  Maria  with  a  BA  in  social  work.  Her 
husband  is  an  estimator  with  U.S.  Steel  Supply 
Division,  Structural  Wire  Products  Group,  in 
Fairless  Hills,  Pa.  He  is  enrolled  in  the  MBA 
program  at  the  University  of  New  Haven. 
. . .  Charles  F.  Moulter  and  Marylouise  Giordano 
on  August  25,1 979  in  North  Haven,  Connect- 
icut. The  groom  is  a  development  engineer  for 
Firestone  Tire  and  Rubber  Co.,  Akron,  Ohio. 

^■Married:  John  C.  Mangiagli,  Jr.,  and  Terry 
L.  Putnam  on  June  23, 1979inGloversville,  New 
York.  Mrs.  Mangiagli  graduated  from 
Gloversville  High  School.  Her  husband  is  a  test 
engineer  at  Texaco,  Inc.  in  Beacon.  .  .  .  Paul  F. 
Proulx  to  Janet  M.  Seppanenon  June  15, 1979  in 
East  Longmeadow,  Massachusetts.  The  bride 
has  a  BSE  degree  in  special  education  from 
Westfield  State  College.  She  is  a  teacher  in  the 
education  department  at  Monson  State  Hospi- 
tal. The  bridegroom  is  a  project  engineer  in  the 
R&D  department  of  the  Milton  Bradley  Co.  in 
East  Longmeadow.  He  attends  Western  New 
England  College.  .  .  .  Steven  H.  Schoen  and 
Victoria  C.  Powell  in  Natick,  Massachusetts  on 
September  1,  1979.  Mrs.  Schoen  graduated 
from  Natick  High  School  and  works  as  a  secre- 
tary for  Sun  Life  of  Canada  in  Wellesley  Hills, 
where  her  husband  holds  the  post  of  actuarial 
assistant.  .  .  .  Peter  Tordo  and  Debbie  Noble  in 
Guilford,  Connecticut  on  September  1 ,  1 979. 
The  bride  graduated  from  Temple  University. 
The  groom  is  a  loss  prevention  representative  for 
Liberty  Mutual  Insurance  in  North  Haven,  Conn. 


Winter  1980 /The  WP1  journal/ 33 


Joseph  Betro  has  received  his  MSEE  from  the 
University  of  Wisconsin. .  .  .  Still  with  CE,  John 
Bucci  is  now  production  supervisor  of  the  task 
force  at  GE  in  Waynesboro,  Va. .  .  .  Albert 
Cooley  holds  the  position  of  administrator  of 
market  planning  for  microprocessor  systems  at 
RCA  Solid  State,  Somerville,  N.J.  He  has  an  MBA 
from  the  University  of  Michigan.  . . .  Sidney 
Formal  is  with  the  U.S.  Army  Corps  of  Engineers 
in  Philadelphia. 

Recently,  Leonard  Goldberg  was  named  re- 
gional and  international  sales  manager  for 
Software  House  of  Cambridge,  Mass.  He  is 
responsible  for  the  firm's  sales  west  of  the 
Mississippi,  the  deep  South,  western  Canada, 
and  several  international  areas.  Previously,  he 
was  system  programmer  at  Johnson  &  Johnson, 
Inc.  in  New  Jersey.  Professionally,  he  is  symposia 
coordinator  for  the  Digital  Equipment  Corpora- 
tion Users  Society,  and  a  member  of  the  Associa- 
tion of  Computing  Machinery.  He  is  past  presi- 
dent of  the  Mid-Atlantic  DECsystem- 10/20 
Users  Group.  Software  House  is  a  leading  pro- 
ducer of  data  base  software  for  large  Digital 
Equipment  Corporation  computers. 

Boeing  Company,  747  Division,  has  hired 
Richard  Isaacs  as  an  associate  engineer  at  the 
Boeing  plant  in  Seattle,  Washington.  Isaacs  and 
his  wife,  Cynthia,  reside  in  Marysville.  .  .  .  Brian 
Plummer  is  with  Intel  in  Aloha,  Oregon. . . . 
Jaime  Rodriguez  is  associated  with  Rodriguez  & 
Del  Valle,  Inc.,  Old  San  Juan,  Puerto  Rico.  .  . . 
Steve  Tuckerman,  who  recently  received  his 
master's  in  regional  planning  from  UMass,  is 
presently  the  town  planner  in  East  Hampton, 
Conn. . . . 


1977 


Secretary 

Representative: 

Kathleen  Molony 

Christopher  D.  Baker 

6  Aiken  St. 

P.O.  Box  35 

Norwalk,  CT 

Page.  AZ 

06851 

86040 

^Married:  Larry  B.  French  to  Betty  P.  Stockman 
in  Oxford,  Massachusetts  on  September  15, 
1979.  Mrs.  French  graduated  from  Worcester 
State,  and  is  a  senior  systems  analyst  at  Paul 
Revere  Life  Insurance  Company  in  Worcester. 
The  groom  is  a  computer  programmer  with  New 
England  Power  Service  Company  in  Westboro. 
. .  .  Domenico  Grasso  and  Patricia  A.  Prue  in 
Shrewsbury,  Massachusetts  on  July  7, 1979.  The 
bride,  a  graduate  of  Smith  College,  plans  to 
attend  Emory  University  School  of  Medicine  in 
Atlanta,  Ga.  Her  husband  serves  as  an  environ- 
mental engineer  for  the  U.S.  Army  Environmen- 
tal Hygiene  Agency  in  Atlanta.  He  has  an  MSCE 
from  Purdue.  . . .  Robert  J.  Hyland  and  Julia  K. 
Wetzel  on  August  18,  1979  in  South  Miami, 
Florida.  Mrs.  Hyland isasenioratJohns Hopkins 
University,  Baltimore.  The  bridegroom,  a  lab 
technician  at  the  Good  Samaritan  Hospital  in 
Baltimore,  received  his  MA  in  biophysics  from 
Johns  Hopkins.  . . .  Marc  N.  Richard  and  Lisa  A. 
Publicover  in  Medway,  Massachusetts.  The 


bride  attends  Wellesley  College.  The  groom,  an 
MIT  graduate,  is  with  the  U.S.  Army  Signal  Corps 
in  Korea.  .  . .  James  M.  Rucci,  Jr.,  and  Nancy  A. 
Caouette  in  Greenfield,  Massachusetts  on  June 
30, 1979.  Mrs.  Rucci  graduated  from  the  Fash- 
ion Institute  of  Technology.  Her  husband  serves 
as  a  fire  protection  engineer  at  Industrial  Risk 
Insurers,  Charlotte,  N.C. . .  .  William  S.  Taberto 
Margaret  R.  McHugh  in  Weymouth,  Mas- 
sachusetts on  June  17,  1979.  The  bride 
graduated  from  Weymouth  North  High  School. 
She  is  an  assistant  secretary  to  an  orthodontist. 
The  bridegroom  works  for  Hammond  Plastics. 
. .  .  Edward  E.  White,  Jr.,  and  Rosann  Zizzari  on 
September  23,  1979  in  Johnston,  Rhode  Island. 
Mrs.  White  graduated  from  Rhode  Island  Junior 
College.  Her  husband  and  she  both  are  em- 
ployed at  Allendale  Insurance  Company. 

Fred  Baker  has  moved  from  Massachusetts  to 
Beaverton,  Oregon.  He  is  a  CRT  manufacturing 
process  engineer  with  Tektronix,  Inc.  "Still  a 
couple  short  of  my  goal  of  seeing  all  50  states." 
....  Richard  Blauvelt  is  employed  as  a  service 
supervisor  at  Bridgeport  (Conn.)  Machines. . . . 
Lawrence  Coel  has  an  MBA  from  the  University 
of  Hartford.  .  .  .  David  Edgerton  serves  as  a 
quality  assurance  engineer  at  Data  General, 
Westboro,  Mass.  .  .  .  Jeffrey  Firestone  has 
transferred  from  Rocketdyne  to  the  Military 
Aircraft  Division  of  Rockwell  International.  Cur- 
rently, he  is  working  on  an  industry-assist  con- 
tract to  Boeing  Co.  in  Everett,  Washington, 
where  he  is  doing  design  work  on  the  747.  .  . . 
Paul  Hajec  is  a  highway  safety  research  engineer 
employed  by  the  Virginia  Highway  and  Trans- 
portation Research  Council. . . .  Ron  Howard 
holds  the  post  of  president  of  Datability 

Software  Systems  in  New  York  City William 

Hubbard  is  director  of  materials  at  Data  Point 
Corp.  in  Sunnyvale,  Calif. 

"Chuck"  Johnson  is  studying  for  his  MBA  at 
Cornell. .  .  .  Brian  Kisiel  is  employed  by  Betz 
Laboratories  of  Trevose,  Pa.,  but  is  located  in 
Wilton,  N.H.  He  writes:  "My  area  manager  is  Bill 
Messer,  '67,  who  is  a  part-time  farmer  on  his 
170  acres  in  Canterbury,  N.H."  . . .  Fred  Koury 
serves  as  manager  for  Colony  Farms,  Worcester. 
He  has  a  BS  in  mathematics  from  Framingham 

State John  Kuklewicz  is  a  design  engineer  at 

Collins-Rockwell  Int'l.,  Cedar  Rapids,  Iowa. . . . 
In  August,  Lt.  William  Lee  took  command  of  HQ 
Battery,  108th  Air  Defense  Artillery  Group,  U.S. 
Army. .  . .  Michael  Oakes  works  for  Raytheon 
Co.,  Sudbury,  Mass. .  .  .  Ron  O'Connor  is 
enrolled  in  the  School  of  Public  Health  at  the 

University  of  Michigan Michael  O'Leary  is  a 

sales  engineer  at  Blake  Equipment  Co.,  Bloom- 
field,  Conn. 


Greg  Ruthven  has  joined  Perkin-Elmer  Corp., 
Optical-Technology  Division,  in  Danbury,  Conn. 
He  is  a  structural  analyst,  and  was  formerly 
employed  at  General  Dynamics  in  San  Diego, 
Calif. . .  .  Gregory  Scott  serves  as  a  systems 
support  specialist  at  Energy  Enterprises  of  Den- 
ver, Colo.  . . .  Cathy  Seymour  is  a  third-year 
PhD  candidate  in  organic  chemistry  at  MIT.  She 
is  married  to  Marty  Meyers,  '75. .  . .  Currently  a 
free-lance  electrical  engineer  for  a  Connecticut 
company,  Dan  Sullivan  lives  in  Newton,  Mass. 
Prior  to  taking  his  present  job,  he  worked  for  an 
electronics  firm  in  Watertown.  He  played  in 
different  bands  in  California  earlier. . . .  Nicolette 
Stultz  has  joined  Sunworks  in  Sommerville,  N.J., 
where  she  is  a  product  development  engineer. 
. . .  Presently,  Jeff  Tingle  serves  as  an  assistant 
computer  scientist  in  the  Cancer  Radiation 
Therapy  Department  at  Rhode  Island  Hospital. 
...  J.  Gilbert  Wilson  III  is  a  structural  design 
engineer  at  Varco-Pruden  in  Evansville,  Wiscon- 
sin. .  .  .  Formerly  general  manager  of  the  First 
Madison  Corp.,  John  Zimmerman  is  now  a 
research  associate  at  Yale  Medical  School,  New 
Haven,  Conn. 


1978 


Secretary: 
Cynthia  Grynick 
303  WolcottSt. 
Waterbury,  CT 
06705 

^■Married:  James  M.  Fowler  to  Kathleen  L. 
Ahern  on  July  14,  1979  in  Melrose,  Mas- 
sachusetts. Mrs.  Fowler,  a  Smith  graduate,  has 
taught  in  Camden,  Me.  for  two  years,  and  has 
accepted  a  post  as  a  kindergarten  teacher  at  the 
Langley  School  in  McLean,  Va.  Her  husband  is 

with  the  Department  of  the  Navy Herbert  W. 

Holmes  to  Tana  M.  Laudicinaon  May  26, 1979 
in  Sudbury,  Massachusetts.  The  bride,  who 
graduated  from  UMass,  is  a  substitute  teacher  in 
Sarasota,  Florida.  The  groom  is  with  the  U.S. 
Highway  Department.  . .  .  Gary  S.  Knox  and 
Louise  M.  Asselin  in  Lincoln,  New  Hampshire, 
recently.  Mrs.  Knox  graduated  from  Emmanuel 
College.  Her  husband  serves  as  a  manufacturing 
engineer  at  Nixdorf  Computer  Co.,  Burlington, 
Mass. 

^Married:  Sergej  K.  Ochrimenko  and  Patricia 
E.  Riley  in  Slatersville,  Rhode  Island  on  Sep- 
tember 22,  1979.  The  groom  works  for  Spencer 
White  &  Prentis  in  Hackensack,  N.J. .  .  .  Peter  J. 
Rowdenand  LaurieJ.  Burnetton  June2, 1979 in 
Halifax,  Nova  Scotia.  The  bride  graduated  from 
Mount  St.  Vincent  University.  She  is  a  legal 
secretary  for  Burwick  &  Burwick  in  Worcester. 
The  bridegroom  works  in  the  production  control 
department  at  Data  General  Corporation. . . . 
Edmund  J.  Sprogis  and  Debbie  Youngblood  on 
August  25, 1 979.  Mrs.  Sprogis  is  studying  for  her 
nursing  degree  at  the  University  of  Vermont.  Her 
husband  is  employed  as  an  associate  level  en- 
gineer at  IBM  in  Essex  Junction,  Vt.  The  couple 
resides  in  their  own  duplex  in  Burlington.  .  . . 


34 /The  WPI  Journal/  Winter  1980 


Dean  C.  Wilcox  to  Sandra  A.  Meyer  in  Warwick, 
Rhode  Island  on  October  6,  1 979.  Mrs.  Wilcox 
graduated  from  the  University  of  Vermont  and  is 
a  physical  therapist.  The  groom  is  a  supervisor  at 
General  Dynamics-Electric  Boat  in  Groton, 
Conn. 

^■Born:  to  Leonard  and  Elizabeth  Papandrea 
Lariviere,  76,  a  daughter,  Christina  Marie,  on 
June  5,  1979.  Len  is  a  structural  engineer  with 
Allen-Sherman-Hoff,  a  company  of  Ecolaire  in 
Malvern,  Pa.  Liz  is  a  market  analyst  on  leave 
from  Westinghouse  Electric  Corp.  Power  Sys- 
tems Generation  Division  in  Lester,  Pa.  The 
Larivieres  reside  in  Coatesville,  Pa. 

Shane  Chalke  continues  at  State  Mutual  in 
Worcester.  .  . .  John  Contestabile  has  been 
promoted  to  highway  engineer  II  at  the  Mary- 
land Department  of  Transportation,  State  High- 
way Administration  (SHA).  He  coaches  8-  to 
15-year-olds  on  the  Parkville  (Md.)  Recreation 
Council  Wrestling  Team.  "Challenging  and  re- 
warding!" He  rooms  with  RickMazmanian,  77, 
who  works  in  the  SHA  Bureau  of  Bridge  Design. 
"There  are  eight  of  us  here  now,  including:  Sid 
Afonso,  79;  Carl  Blomberg,  79;  Paul  Gudelski, 
78;  Bill  Malone,  78;  Steve  Buckley,  77,  and 
Chuck  Rheault,  77. 

Andrew  Corman  is  with  Turner  Construction 
Co.,  and  is  located  in  Columbus,  Ohio.  .  .  .  Lt. 
William  Diederich  is  at  F.  E.  Warren  AFB  in 

Cheyenne,  Wyoming Mary  Donovan  is  with 

the  Army  Corps  of  Engineers  in  Waltham,  Mass. 
. . .  Anne  Dyer  serves  as  a  structural  engineer  at 
David  Taylor  Research  Center  in  Bethesda,  Md. 
. .  .  Anthony  Fernandes  works  for  Malcolm 
Pirnie,  Inc.,  Philadelphia.  .  .  .  John  Kuchachik 
serves  as  a  fire  protection  engineer  at  Kemper 
Insurance  in  North  Quincy,  Mass. 

Ethan  Luce  is  an  associate  engineer  at  the 
Barden  Corp.,  Danbury,  Conn.  . .  .  Wayne 
Martin  has  been  named  nuclear  plant  engineer 
in  operations  for  the  Knolls  Atomic  Power  Labo- 
ratory. .  .  .  Murray  Matzmer  holds  the  post  of 
service  adviser  at  Foreign  Motors  of  Boston.  . . . 
In  March,  Theresa  Murphy  left  Torrington  Co.  In 
May,  she  became  a  management  trainee  at  New 
England  Telephone,  Boston.  .  .  .  Rory  O'Connor 
wrote  "Campus  Computer  Center  Built  in  Con- 
verted Chapel,"  which  appeared  in  the  Sept. 
17th  issue  of  Computerworld.  .  .  .  Currently, 
Michael  O'Hara  is  associate  project  manager  at 
Firepro  Inc.,  Wellesley  Hills,  Mass.  . .  .  Stephen 
Pace  is  employed  as  field  manager  of  Yukon 

Construction  in  Santa  Clara,  Calif John  Petze 

is  a  production  engineer  with  Hydroblaster,  Inc. , 
Sparks,  Nevada —  Anthony  Raymond  works  as 
a  systems  engineer  at  Electronics  for  Medicine  in 
Sudbury,  Mass. .  .  .  Bruce  Rutsch  is  with  Prime 
Computer,  Newton  Lower  Falls,  Mass. .  .  .  Phil 

Scarrell  is  at  du  Pont  in  South  Francisco,  Calif 

David  Tate  serves  as  a  software  engineer  at 

Sanders  Associates,  Inc.,  South  Nashua,  N.H 

Brian  Timura  is  a  first-year  student  at  Tufts 
University  School  of  Medicine.  Previously,  he 
was  employed  by  St.  Elizabeth's  Hospital  in 

Brighton,  Mass Charles  Winters  works  as  an 

electronics  service  engineer  at  Brown  &  Sharpe, 
North  Kingston,  R.I. 


1979 

Representative 
Donald  O.  Patten,  Jr. 

^■Married:  Glenn  R.  Baylis  and  Lisa  D.  Newborg 
in  Essex,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Baylis  is  a  senior  at 
UMass,  Amherst.  The  bridegroom  is  employed 
by  Polaroid  in  Waltham,  Mass.,  where  he  is  a 
production  engineer. . . .  Maryellen  Doherty  and 
Hospitalman  3/c  Michael  Munzert,  on  June  3, 
1979  in  Worcester.  The  bride  is  an  assistant 
programmer  in  the  Federal  Systems  Division  at 
IBM,  Middletown,  R.I.  Her  husband  serves  as  a 
psychiatric  technician  at  the  U.S.  Naval  Regional 
Medical  Center  in  Newport.  .  .  .  Kenneth  A. 
Gamache  to  Diane  L.  Storm  on  September  22, 
1979  in  Rutland,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Gamache, 
a  graduate  of  Mount  Wachusett  Community 
College,  Gardner,  is  a  secretary  at  Wright  Line  in 
Worcester.  The  bridegroom  is  a  manufacturing 
engineer  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Westfield, 
Mass. 

>Married:  William  R.  Herman  and  Andrea  L. 
Trivieri  on  August  1 1 ,  1979  in  Utica,  New  York. 
Mrs.  Herman,  a  Becker  graduate,  is  employed  by 
Brooks  Fashions,  Hartford.  Her  husband  works 
for  Arthur  Anderson,  Inc.  .  .  .  Dale  Hobbs  and 
Bonnie  J.  Derosieron  June  16,  1979  in  Lunen- 
burg, Massachusetts.  The  bride,  a  senior  at  WPI, 
is  a  chemical  engineering  major.  The  groom  is 
with  Boeing  Aircraft,  Seattle,  Washington.  .  . . 
Daniel  F.  Hurst  and  Cheryl  A.  Payeur  in 
Springfield,  Massachusetts  on  July  21,  1979. 
Mrs.  Hurst  holds  an  associate's  degree  in  ac- 
counting from  Springfield  Technical  Community 
College.  She  was  a  control  clerk  with  Springfield 
Institution  For  Savings.  Her  husband  is  involved 
with  research  and  development  of  photo 
technology  at  Eastman  Kodak  in  Rochester,  NY. 
.  .  .  James  D.  Kelleher  and  Rosemary  Shea  in 
Worcester  on  October  6,  1979.  The  bride 
graduated  from  Holy  Cross.  Her  husband  is  with 

IBM,  Newport,  R.I Kenneth  Kimball  and 

Susan  Wright.  The  groom  works  for  GE-Knolls 
Atomic  Labs.  .  .  .  Peter  Madnick  and  Beth  J. 
Pomstein  in  Framingham,  Massachusetts  on 
August  5,  1979.  Mrs.  Madnick  is  a  senior  in  civil 
engineering  at  the  University  of  Lowell.  Her 
husband  is  president  and  national  sales  manager 
for  Dennesen  Electrostatic,  Inc.,  Beverly,  Mass. 
. . .  Christopher  G.  Mather  and  Mary  L.  Skillen  on 
October  6,  1 979  in  Oswego,  New  York.  The 
bride  graduated  from  SUNY,  Oswego,  and  is 
employed  by  Eye  Consultants  of  Syracuse.  The 
groom  is  with  Hewelett-Packard.  .  .  .  Anne  L. 
Pattee  and  Stephen  R.  Picardo  in  Beverly,  Mas- 
sachusetts. Mrs.  Picardo,  who  also  graduated 
from  Salem  State  College,  is  a  high  school 
teacher  in  the  Dover-Sherborn  Regional  Schools. 
The  bridegroom  attends  Boston  State  College 
and  graduated  from  Lowell  University.  He  works 
for  Sharp  Air  Freight  Company. 


^■Married:  Thomas  D.  Rockwood  to  Susan  E. 
Kingsley  on  September  22,  1979  in  North  An- 
dover,  Massachusetts.  The  groom  is  with  Procter 
&  Gamble,  Mehoopany,  Pa.,  where  he  is  team 
manager  of  Luvs  in  the  paper  products  division. 
.  .  .  Robert  C.  Rosenlof  and  Mary  A.  Avery  on 
July  21,  1979  in  Hartford,  Connecticut.  The 
bride  is  employed  by  Travelers  Insurance  Co.  Her 
husband  is  with  Electric  Boat  in  Groton,  Conn. 
. . .  Jeffrey  G.  Stickles  and  Jane  L.  Martinelli  in 
Granby,  Connecticut  on  September  8,  1979. 
Mrs.  Stickles  was  formerly  a  secretary  at  Kenney, 
Webber  &  Lowell,  Inc.  The  groom  works  at  GE  in 
Erie,  Pa.  .  .    Richard  R.  Tardiff  and  Debra  A. 
Hebert  in  Saco,  Maine  on  September  8, 1 979. 
The  bride  graduated  from  Biddeford  High 
School.  She  is  employed  by  Union  Mutual  Life  in 
Portland.  Her  husband  is  at  the  Portsmouth 

Naval  Shipyard  in  Kittery Paul  A.  Tessierand 

Jane  E.  Gresh  on  September  1 ,  1 979  in  Avon, 
Connecticut.  The  bridegroom  is  a  development 
engineer  at  Hewlett-Packard  in  Waltham,  Mass. 
. .  .  John  F.  Wheeler  to  Anne  S.  Malaney  in 
Johnstown,  New  York  on  July  21, 1979.  Mrs. 
Wheeler  has  a  paralegal  degree  from  Becker 
Junior  College.  Her  husband  works  for  Turner 
Construction  Company  of  Boston. . .   Thomas  J. 
White  and  Linda  J.  Hein  in  Paxton,  Mas- 
sachusetts on  August  11,1 979.  Mrs.  White 
attended  UMass.  She  is  administration  manager 
at  K2  Corp.,  Wilmington.  The  groom  serves  as  a 
wine  salesman  for  Chas.  Gilman  &  Sons,  Med- 
ford. . . .  Robert  A.  Wood  to  Robin  A.  Wrobel  on 
June  16,  1979  in  Warren,  Massachusetts.  Mrs. 
Wood  attended  Becker.  Her  husband  is  em- 
ployed by  GE  in  Utica,  NY. 

Donald  Abells  is  an  associate  engineer  at 
Raytheon  in  Sudbury,  Mass.  He  is  a  design 
engineer  on  the  laser  gyro  program. .  .  .  Sidney 
Afonso  works  as  a  highway  engineer  I  for  the 
State  Highway  Administration  in  Baltimore,  Md. 
.  .  .  Leona  Arsenault  serves  as  a  graduate 
research  assistant  in  the  ME  department  at  WPI. 
.  .  .  Robert  Avarbock  has  joined  Digital  Equip- 
ment Corp.,  Tewksbury,  Mass.,  where  he  is  a 
systems  programmer. .  .  .  Kent  Backe  holds  the 
post  of  staff  engineer  at  CNR,  Inc.,  Needham, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Stephen  Blanchette  is  employed  as  a 
software  engineer  at  Digital  in  Maynard,  Mass. 
. . .  Hewlett-Packard  Co.,  Lexington,  Mass.,  has 
hired  Dean  Bogues  as  a  logic  analysis- 
development  specialist.  .  .  .  Roland  Brooks  at- 
tends Fairwood  Bible  Institute  in  Dublin,  N.H 

James  Campbell  serves  as  an  associate  engineer 
at  Honeywell  in  Billerica,  Mass.  ...  Ian  Cannon 
has  been  named  a  member  of  the  technical  staff 
II  at  the  Rocketdyne  Division  of  Rockwell  in 
Canoga  Park,  Calif.  He  is  a  systems  analyst  and 
programmer  in  aerospace  engineering. 

Stephen  Caputo  holds  the  post  of  sales  assist- 
ant in  the  technical  marketing  program  at  GE  in 

Bloomington,  Illinois Charles  Carter  is  a  field 

engineeratSchlumbergerWell  Services  in  Pharr, 
Texas.  .    .  Hosur  Chikkalingaiah  serves  as  a 
sanitary  engineer  at  Whitman  &  Howard,  Inc.,  in 
Wellesley,  Mass.  .  .  .  Stephen  Clark  has  been 
named  design  and  development  engineer  at 

Raytheon  in  Sudbury,  Mass Cynthia  Connor 

is  an  associate  engineer  at  Westinghouse-Bettis 


Winter  1980 /The  WPI  journal/ 35 


Atomic  Power  Lab.  in  West  Mifflin,  Pa. .  ..James 
Cunniff  holds  the  position  of  administrative 
technical  support  manager  at  Jamesbury  Corp. 
in  Worcester,  Mass. . ..  Edward  Curtis  has  joined 
Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft,  East  Hartford,  Conn. 
. . .  George  Dainis  is  in  the  chemical  engineering 
graduate  program  at  MIT. .  .  .  Gail  D'Amico  is 
studying  for  a  PhD  in  pharmacology  at  Mt.  Sinai 
Medical  School  in  New  York  City. 

Andrew  Davidson  works  as  a  salesman  for  the 
John  Hancock  Mutual  Life  Insurance  Company 
in  Worcester. .  .  .  John  Davidson  is  a  CDP 

engineerat  GE  In  Lynn,  Mass Beth  Raymond 

Davis  has  been  named  a  structural  engineer  II  at 
Allen-Sherman-Hoff  in  Malvern,  Pa.  .  . .  Paul 
Delvy  is  employed  as  a  project  engineer  at  Wang 
Laboratories  in  Lowell,  Mass.  . .  .  William 
Donoghue  is  a  design  engineer  at  Hamilton 
Standard,  Windsor  Locks,  Conn.  .  .  .  Chester 
Drake  has  joined  United  Engineers  &  Construc- 
tors, Boston.  . .  .  Ron  Drewiany  serves  as  an 
associate  engineer  in  the  Electric  Boat  Division  of 
General  Dynamics  in  Groton,  Conn. .  . .  Richard 
Durand,  Jr.,  is  pursuing  a  PhD  in  chemistry  at  Cal 
Tech. 

Stephen  Falls  has  joined  the  Spencer  Turbine 

Co.  in  Windsor,  Conn Eugenia  Fernandez  is  a 

technical  representative  for  Kemper  Insurance, 
Southfield,  Mich.  . . .  Alwyn  Fitzgerald  works  as 
a  biological  assistant  at  Connecticut  Valley 
Biological  Supply,  Co.,  Inc.,  Southampton,  Mass. 
. .  .  Eileen  Foley  serves  as  a  mechanical  engineer 
at  the  U.S.  Army  Armament  Research  and  De- 
velopment Company,  Picatinny  Arsenal,  Dover, 
N.J. . . .  Athanasios  Foutsitzis  is  a  research 
assistantandgraduatestudentatWPI. . .  James 
Gaffney  has  been  named  a  chemical  engineer  at 
the  Kendall  Co.,  Walpole,  Mass.  . . .  Tom  Girotti 
is  a  project  engineer  at  Virginia  Electric  &  Power 
Co.  in  Richmond,  Va. .  . .  John  Grimwade  works 
as  a  field  service  engineer  at  Babcock  &  Wilcox 
Co.,  Barberton,  Ohio.  . . .  Mark  Groves  has 
joined  GE  in  Utica,  N.Y.  . . .  William  Guerin  is 
employed  at  Idealab,  Inc.,  Franklin,  Mass. 

International  Harvester  Company  has 
awarded  a  graduate  dissertation  fellowship  to 
James  Gustafson,  currently  a  candidate  for  his 
MSME  at  WPI.  He  was  one  of  174  graduate 
students,  representing  88  colleges,  who  entered 
the  competition  for  the  six  fellowships  offered  by 
IH  for  the  first  time  this  year.  Aimed  at  providing 
assistance  to  students,  benefitting  the  colleges, 
and  advancing  industrial  technology,  the  fellow- 
ships offer  maximum  funding  of  $25  thousand 
each.  They  cover  up  to  a  two-year  period, 
provide  funds  for  a  cash  stipend,  tuition,  and 
support  of  research  costs.  Gustafson's  winning 
proposal  title  was:  "Strain  Measurement  by 
Hologram  Interferometry."  His  research  will  be 
aimed  at  advancing  present  knowledge  for 
holographic  strain  analysis  by  experimenting 
with  new  procedures  that  will  relate  directly  to 
surface  strains  of  three-dimensional  objects.  The 
study  will  develop  technology  particularly 
adaptable  in  designing  and  testing  critical  com- 
ponents in  the  automotive,  aerospace,  and  elec- 
tronics industries  and  in  medical  laboratories. 
Gustafson  belongs  to  the  ASME.  During  the  past 
summer,  he  has  been  employed  as  a  project 
engineer  by  Ambac  Industries  of  Springfield, 
Mass. 


36 /The  WPI  Journal/  Winter  1980 


Kevin  Halloran  holds  the  post  of  president  of 
Advanced  Hybrid  Systems  in  Newton  Centre, 
Mass.  . .  .  Dorothy  Hamilton  is  doing  work  in 
inorganic  chemistry  at  the  Graduate  School  of 
the  University  of  Illinois  in  Urbana. .  .  .  Scott 
Hansen  has  joined  Monsanto  Textiles,  Decatur, 

Alabama John  Haporik  serves  as  an  associate 

environmental  engineer  at  B.F.  Goodrich  Chem- 
ical Co.,  Calvert  City,  Ky.  .  .  .  Henry  Hazebrouck 
has  been  named  a  research  engineer  at  Ampex 

Corp.  in  Redwood  City,  Calif Mark  Hecker  is 

employed  as  a  design  engineer  at  Data  General, 
Westboro,  Mass.  .  . .  Raytheon  Company  in 
Wayland,  Mass.  has  tapped  Paul  Henderson  as 
an  associate  engineer.  .  . .  Daniel  Hennessy 
graduated  magna  cum  laude  from  Boston  Col- 
lege, and  is  studying  for  his  MBA  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Michigan John  Hopkins,  Jr.,  works  as 

a  sales  engineer  at  Alger  Corp.,  Abington,  Mass. 
.  .  .  Arthur  Hughes  is  employed  as  a  field 
engineer  at  Dresser  Industries  in  Texas.  . . . 
Stephen  Hull,  Jr.,  who  holds  an  MS  from  WPI,  is 
working  on  his  PhD  at  Michigan  State,  East 
Lansing.  His  wife,  Kathy,  is  a  resident  at  St. 
Joseph's  Hospital  in  Flint  preparing  for  family 
practice. 

Craig  Jacobson  works  as  a  gear  product  de- 
sign engineer  at  GE  in  Lynn,  Mass.  .  .  .  Bruce 
Jenket,  an  officer  candidate  in  the  Navy  OCS  in 
Newport,  R.I.,  will  be  movingto  Orlando,  Fla.  for 
six  months,  then  on  to  Idaho. .  .  .  Turner 
Construction  Co.,  Columbus,  Ohio,  has  hired 
Richard  Jenkins  II  as  a  cost  engineer.  .  .  .  Brian 

Johansson  is  with  Motorola  in  Plantation,  Fla 

David  Johnson  and  his  wife  Joan  are  now  resid- 
ing in  London.  Johnson  is  with  Film  Cooling 
Towers,  Ltd.  in  Richmond,  Surrey,  U.K.,  as  well 
as  with  Johnson  International,  Ltd.  in  Bridgewa- 
ter,  Conn.  .  .  .  Kilmer  Joyce  has  been  named 
associate  engineer  in  the  Combustion  Turbine 
Division  of  Westinghouse,  Concordville,  Pa. . . . 
Stephen  Kapurch  is  with  the  Dept.  of  the  Navy 
Fleet  Analysis  Center  in  Corona,  Calif. . . .  Ronald 
Knapp,  who  has  an  MSEE  from  WPI,  holds  the 
post  of  design  engineer  at  Analog  Devices, 
Wakefield,  Mass. .  .  .  Richard  Kozicz  has  joined 
Data  General,  Southboro,  Mass.,  where  he  is  a 
systems  test  engineer. 

Claire  LaChance  is  with  GE  in  Philadelphia 

Norman  Lacourse  has  been  named  a  chemist  at 
National  Starch  &  Chemical  Corp.,  Bridgewater, 
N.J. . .  .  Ken  Laliberte  serves  as  a  manufacturing 
engineer  at  Norton  Co.,  Worcester.  .  .  .  Ray 
Lambert  is  employed  as  a  project  engineer  at 
Monsanto  in  Springfield,  Mass.  .  . .  Presently, 
Brien  Laufer  is  studying  for  his  MSEE  at  Ohio 

State  University Stephen  Lawny  is  a  graduate 

student  in  the  physics  department  at  WPI. . . . 
John  Lennhoff  holds  the  post  of  development 
engineerat  Kodak,  Rochester,  N.Y.  .  .  .  Stephen 
Lesniewski  is  a  student  at  Jagiellonski  University 

in  Krakow,  Poland Ronald  Lucier  serves  as  an 

associate  engineerat  Yankee  Atomic  Electric  Co. 
in  Westboro,  Mass. 

Frank  Maldari  works  for  Itek  Corp., 
Lexington,  Mass. .  .  .  Frank  Martin  is  a  solar 
engineerat  Environmental  Alternatives,  Inc., 
Dover,  N.H.  He  is  designing  a  home  which  he, 
Kevin  Doherty,  and  John  "Sid''  Fitzgerald  may 
be  building  next  spring  for  the  owner.  . . . 
Timothy  McAlice  has  joined  Pratt  &  Whitney 
Aircraft  Group  in  West  Palm  Beach,  Fla. . . . 
Kathleen  McKeon  is  a  teaching  assistant  in  the 
math  department  at  Michigan  State  University  in 
East  Lansing. . . .  James  Miller  is  studying  for  his 
MS  at  Stanford  University,  where  he  is  a  teach- 
ing assistant  in  the  EE  department.  .  .  .  Donald 
Mitchell  serves  as  an  assistant  engineer  for 
Public  Service  of  New  Hampshire  in  Manchester. 


.  .  .  Lisa  Mitchell  is  employed  as  a  field  liaison 
engineer  at  Westinghouse  Elevator  Co.,  Ran- 
dolph, N.J. . .  .  Jack  Morrison  has  joined  Pratt  & 
Whitney,  East  Hartford,  Conn.,  as  an  experi- 
mental engineer.  .  . .  Tom  Murray  is  a  process 
engineer  at  Texas  Instruments  in  Dallas. 

Prime  Computer,  Inc.,  Framingham,  Mass., 
has  employed  Peter  Pappas  as  a  software  en- 
gineer. .  .  .  Stephen  Parent  is  at  Brown  Univer- 
sity, Providence,  R.I. .  .  .  Gary  Pearson  is  em- 
ployed as  a  product  design  engineer  at 
Raytheon-Data  Systems,  Norwood,  Mass. . . . 
Heidi  Pivnick  has  been  hired  as  operations 
supervisor  at  AT  &  T  Long  Lines,  Hartford,  Conn. 
.  . .  William  Potter  is  with  Motorola  in  Ft. 
Lauderdale,  Fla.  .  .  .  Joyce  Poulton  is  a 
mathematician  at  Vitro  Laboratories  in  Newport, 

R.I Stephen  Prawdzik  has  been  working  as 

an  assistant  sales  engineer  at  GE  in  Nashville, 
Tenn.  .  . .  Presently,  Robert  Reed  is  a  product 
engineer  for  Wyman-Gordon  in  North  Grafton, 
Mass.  . .  .  Rene  Richard  has  accepted  a  post  at 
Kodak  in  Rochester,  N.Y.  .  .  .  Glenn  Robertson 
serves  as  a  product  engineer  at  Texas  Instru- 
ments in  Houston.  He  is  responsible  for  a  mem- 
ory device Ali  Rostami  is  a  graduate  student 

at  Stanford  University.  .  .  .  Honeywell,  Inc., 
Lexington,  Mass.,  has  named  Ron  Roth  an  as- 
sociate project  engineer.  . .  .  Carl  Rutigliano 
works  as  a  mechanical  design  engineer  at  GE  in 
Fitchburg. .  .  .  Scott  Ryder  has  joined  New 
England  Power  Service  Co.,  Westboro,  Mass. 

David  Scheffler  serves  as  a  test  engineer  at 
Raytheon  Data  Systems  in  Norwood,  Mass.  . . . 
Richard  Schneider  is  a  manufacturing  process 
engineer  at  Texas  Instruments,  Mansfield,  Mass. 
. . .  Monique  Schobert  is  employed  as  a  member 
of  the  research  staff  at  Western  Electric  in  Prince- 
ton, N.J David  Sheridan,  a  2/Lt.  in  the  U.S. 

Army  Ordnance  Corps,  is  currently  attending 
Explosive  Ordnance  Disposal  School.  .  . .  Alan 
Smelewicz  is  a  teaching  assistant  at  WPI. .  . . 
David  Smith  is  working  for  his  MBA  full  time  at 
Babson  College,  Needham,  Mass.  .  . .  Alfred 
Spada  is  a  graduate  student  at  MIT,  where  he  is 
studying  for  his  PhD.  .  . .  Andrew  Sumberg  has 
joined  Thermo  Electron  in  Waltham,  Mass. . . . 
Edward  Tidman  III  holds  the  post  of  group 
insurance  underwriter  at  State  Mutual  in 
Worcester.  .  . .  Bob  Tosi  serves  as  a  design 
engineer  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Maynard, 
Mass.  . .  .  John  Tracy  is  an  MBA  student  at 
Northeastern  in  Boston.  .  .  .  Bradley  Traver 
works  as  a  surveying  technician  for  the  U.S. 
government  in  the  National  Park  Service.  He 
writes,  "Constantly  travelling!"  .  .  .  Tom  Van 
Ness  is  with  Kodak,  Rochester,  N.Y. 

David  Wardell  is  at  GE  in  Schenectady,  N.Y. 
. . .  Vincent  Wasnewsky  is  a  teaching  assistant  at 
WPI,  where  he  is  studying  for  his  MSEE. . . . 
General  Dynamics-Electric  Boat,  Groton,  Conn., 
has  employed  George  Wespi  as  an  associate 
engineer.  .  .  .  David  West  works  for  Conrail  in 
Pittsburgh. .  . .  David  Willey  is  an  associate 
engineerat  Lockheed-Georgia  in  Marietta,  Ga. 
. .  .  Chris  Wilmot  serves  as  a  chemical  engineer 

at  Naval  Ordnance  Station,  Indian  Head,  Md 

William  Winters  is  at  Cornell  in  Ithaca,  N.Y. . . . 
Vincent  Wolff  has  accepted  a  position  as  an 
associate  member  of  the  research  staff  at  Ampex 
Corp.,  Redwood  City,  Calif. . . .  Lawrence 
Woodward,  who  has  his  MSEE  from  WPI,  is  a 

teaching  associate  at  UMass  in  Amherst Paul 

Wrabel  is  an  engineer  assistant  at  Babcock  & 

Wilcox  in  Barberton,  Ohio Priscilla  Young  is 

employed  as  an  engineering  trainee  at  Mobil  Oil 
Corp.,  Scarsdale,  N.Y.  .  . .  Robert  Zunner  has 
joined  Raytheon  in  Wayland,  Mass. 


, 


School  of 

Industrial 

Management 


Harold  White,  '55,  now  back  with  Norton  in 
Worcester  following  a  seven-year  stint  for  the 
firm  in  England,  says  that  his  hobbies  include 
collecting  antiques,  woodworking  tools,  and 
American  clocks.  He  enjoys  clock  repairing  and 
travel.  "We  have  been  in  Europe,  Asia  Minor, 
and  Africa,  but  Cape  Porpoise,  Me.  is  a  favorite 
spot  for  family  gatherings."  Last  summer,  the 
Whites  attended  the  Queen's  Lawn  Party  at 
Buckingham  Palace. 

George  Durnin,  Jr.,  '61,  continues  at  Franklin 
County  Public  Hospital,  Greenfield,  Mass., 
where  he  serves  as  vice  president  of  employee 
services. 

William  Lechman,  '64,  has  been  named  opera- 
tions manager  for  the  Chain  and  Components 
Division  of  Rexnord,  Inc.  in  Milwaukee.  He  is 
responsible  for  all  manufacturing  and  related 
areas  for  the  division.  Previously,  he  was  general 
manager  of  Ruberg  &  Renner,  Germany.  He 
joined  Rexnord  in  1 956  as  a  student  trainee.  He 
graduated  from  the  University  of  Connecticut 
with  a  degree  in  industrial  engineering. 

Edward  Bilzerian,  '66,  was  recently  appointed 
vice  president  and  controller  of  Bay  State  Abra- 
sives Division  of  Dresser  Industries,  Inc.,  in 
Westboro,  Mass.  With  the  firm  since  1955, 
Bilzerian  has  held  managerial  posts  in  pricing, 
cost  accounting,  and  general  accounting.  He  is  a 
graduate  of  Clark  University. 


Edwin  Larson,  '77,  has  been  named  business 
manager  of  industrial  production  products  at 
Norton  Company's  coated  abrasive  division, 
Troy,  NY.  Since  1956,  he  has  held  various  posts 
in  field  sales,  marketing,  and  product  manage- 
ment for  both  grinding  wheels  and  coated  abra- 
sives. In  1978,  he  moved  to  the  Albany-Troy 
area  as  product  manager  of  cloth  backed  prod- 
ucts. 

JohnHickey,  Jr.,  '78,  is  listed  in  the  1979  edition 
of  Who's  Who  in  Finance  &  Industry.  Last 
August,  he  was  appointed  controller  of  New 
England  High  Carbon  Wire  Corp.,  Millbury, 
Mass. 

Robert  Eves,  '79,  is  now  the  technical  manager 
of  Norton  Company's  new  proppants  plant  in 
Fort  Smith,  Arkansas.  He  has  held  increasingly 
responsible  posts  in  manufacturing  control  and 
process  engineering  since  joining  the  firm  in 
1946.  A  registered  professional  engineer,  he 
holds  an  ME  degree  from  Tri-State  University  in 
Angola,  Indiana. 

William  Monigle,  '79,  is  president  of  Video 
Base,  Inc.,  Merrimack,  N.H.  The  firm  produces 
custom  video  taped  training  and  communica- 
tions programs.  Monigle  graduated  from  the 
University  of  Massachusetts. 


Natural 

Science 

Program 


John  Sakala,  '66,  has  been  named  principal  of 
Princeton  (N.J.)  High  School.  He  was  selected 
from  nearly  100  applicants.  Previously,  he  was 
principal  of  Rockport  (Mass.)  High  School,  and 
of  Homebase  School  in  Watertown,  Mass.  He 
had  taught  mathematics  and  physics  in  Water- 
town,  where  he  was  also  a  coordinator  of  science 
for  the  school  district.  He  has  a  certificate  of 
advanced  graduate  studies  from  Northeastern, 
as  well  as  a  BA  from  Brandeis.  Applicants  for  the 
principal's  post  were  thoroughly  screened  by  the 
Board  of  Education,  the  high  school  staff,  and 
members  of  the  community.  Sakala  was  picked 
from  among  four  finalists. 


Sr.  Pauline  Kalagher  (S.S.J.),  '78,  is  a  science 
teacher  at  Milford  (Mass.)  High  School. 

P.  Martin  Conway,  '79,  teaches  at  Granby 
(Mass.)  Senior  High  School.  .  .  .  Timothy  Hoar, 
'79,  is  employed  by  the  school  department  in 
Franklin,  Mass.,  where  his  is  an  educator  at  the 
junior  high  school.  He  and  his  wife,  Susan,  have 
two  children.  They  live  in  Mendon.  .  .  .  Robert 
Raymond,  '79,  teaches  chemistry  at  Mahar  Re- 
gional School  in  Orange,  Mass. 


Winter  1980 /The  WP1  Journal/ 37 


L.  Herbert  Carter,  '07,  died  in  a  convalescent 
hospital  in  San  Jose,  California  on  October  3, 
1979. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  was  born  on  Jan.  31, 
1885.  After  studying  electrical  engineering  at 
WPI,  he  worked  several  years  for  New  York 
Telephone.  Other  employers  included  Reed  & 
Prince,  and  Worcester  Pressed  Steel,  from  which 
he  retired  in  1 950  as  plant  engineer.  From  1 950 
to  1961 ,  he  was  a  consulting  engineer  in 
Worcester,  under  the  business  name  of  the 
Carter  Engineering  Service.  He  was  a  registered, 
professional  engineer. 

Mr.  Carter,  who  moved  to  California  in  1962, 
was  active  in  the  Little  House  Senior  Citizens 
Center  in  Menlo  Park.  He  had  previously  be- 
longed to  the  Tech  Old  Timers,  the  Elks,  and  had 
been  active  in  scouting. 

Richard  B.  Davidson,  '17,  a  retired  associate 
engineer  at  the  Sacandaga  Reservoir  in  New 
York,  died  in  Glens  Falls  on  September  13,1 979. 
He  was  83. 

He  received  his  BSCE  from  WPI  in  1917. 
Following  graduation,  he  was  an  ensign  in  the 
U.S.  Naval  Reserve  until  1921.  He  attended 
Officer  Material  School  at  Harvard,  and  later 
worked  for  the  Power  Construction  Company  of 
Worcester.  While  at  Worcester,  he  was  involved 
with  hydroelectric  and  dam  construction  on  the 
Connecticut  and  Deerfield  Rivers. 

In  1925  he  joined  the  Hudson  River,  Black 
River  Regulating  District  of  Albany,  N.Y.  as 
assistant  engineer.  Upon  completing  his  duties 
on  the  Conklingville  Dam  and  Sacandaga  Reser- 
voir flood  control  project,  he  was  named  as- 
sociate engineer  on  the  maintenance  of  the 
Reservoir.  In  1966,  he  retired  after  serving  the 
Hudson  River-Black  River  Regulating  District  for 
41  years.  He  served  as  district  consultant  for  two 
years  after  retirement. 

Mr.  Davidson  was  born  in  1895  in  Sterling, 
Mass.  He  belonged  to  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon,  the 
Eastern  Snow  Conference,  and  the  American 
Legion.  A  fellow  of  the  ASCE,  he  was  also  a 
registered  professional  engineer  in  New  York. 


Retired  Army  Major  General  Kirke  B.  Lawton, 
'17,  who  coordinated  photographic  coverage  of 
all  U.S.  ground  troops  on  the  Western  Front 
during  World  War  II,  died  in  Athol,  Mas- 
sachusetts on  October  20,  1 979.  He  was  84 
years  old. 

General  Lawton's  37-year  career  in  the  Army 
touched  on  two  world  wars,  the  German  surren- 
der signing,  the  Big  Three  Potsdam  Conference, 
and  the  Army-McCarthy  hearings.  At  the  apex 
of  his  career,  he  served  as  commander  of  Fort 
Monmouth,  N.J.  and  its  Signal  Corps  Center. 
The  two-star  general  had  served  as  head  of  the 
Army  Pictorial  Service,  for  which  he  earned  the 
Legion  of  Merit,  as  chief  of  American  ground 
combat  photographers  in  Europe  in  World  War 
II,  and  as  an  eyewitness  to  top-level  end  of  war 
and  postwar  meetings. 

His  various  Army  positions  took  him  to  Hol- 
lywood, where  he  assisted  in  the  making  of 
patriotic  movies  for  the  home  front,  to  the 
atomic  bomb  test  in  Nevada  in  the  1 950's,  and 
to  a  number  of  White  House  receptions.  From 
1940  to  1944,  Gen.  Lawton  served  in 
Washington,  D.C.  He  was  promoted  to  Colonel 
and  named  chief  of  the  Army  Pictorial  Services. 
In  1944,  he  was  assigned  to  Supreme  Headquar- 
ters of  Allied  Forces  in  Europe.  Starting  1 2  days 
after  D-Day,  he  followed  the  American  Army 
across  northern  France  with  a  cameraman,  a 
jeep,  a  chauffeur,  and  a  pup  tent.  He  filmed  and 
conferred  with  Eisenhower,  Patton,  Bradley, 
British  Field  Marshall  Montgomery,  and  French 
General  DeGaulle.  On  May  7, 1945  he  "free- 
lanced" his  way  into  a  school  at  Rheims,  France 
at  2  A.M.  and  took  the  only  color  photos  made 
of  the  German  surrender  ceremony.  Two 
months  later  he  "crashed"  the  Potsdam  Confer- 
ence. "I  sneaked  in,"  he  was  to  confess  later. 

His  prized  Potsdam  photo,  widely  published  in 
periodicals  and  textbooks,  was  shot  on  a  balcony 
over  Churchill's  broad  frame  and  showed  men  of 
history  around  a  huge  round  table  including: 
Truman,  Byrnes,  Admiral  Leahy,  Churchill,  Atlee, 
Anthony  Eden,  Stalin,  Molotov,  and  Gromyko. 

In  1954,  while  in  command  of  Fort  Mon- 
mouth and  the  Signal  Corps  Center  with  its 
radar-sensitive  laboratories,  Gen.  Lawton  was 
put  into  the  national  spotlight  during  the  heavily 
televised  Army-McCarthy  hearings.  The  general 
was  praised  by  Senator  McCarthy  in  regard  to 
the  civilian  loyalty-security  check  system  he  had 
instituted  at  Fort  Monmouth.  He  could  not 
testify  at  the  hearings,  however,  because  of  a 
"gag"  order  issued  by  President  Eisenhower.  At 
the  time,  Gen.  Lawton  let  it  be  known  that 
following  the  job  suspensions  he  ordered  at  Fort 
Monmouth,  there  was  no  longer  a  threat  of  a  spy 
ring  at  the  installation. 

Among  the  general's  many  awards  are  the 
U.S.  Legion  of  Merit,  three  battle  service  stars, 
the  victory  medal,  and  Czechoslovakia's  Medal 
of  Merit,  First  Class.  He  received  an  honorary 
doctor  of  science  degree  from  WPI  in  1950.  A 
past  president  of  the  Boston  chapter  of  the 
Alumni  Association,  he  had  also  served  on  the 
Executive  Committee. 

Gen.  Lawton  was  born  on  Nov.  3,  1894  in 
Athol,  Mass.  In  1917  he  graduated  as  a  mechan- 
ical engineer.  He  belonged  to  ATO. 


Leslie  H.  Spofford,  '17,  chief  engineer  at 
Wachusett  Engineering  &  Combustion  for  many 
years,  died  in  Holden,  Massachusetts  on  April 
21,  1979. 

He  was  born  on  Nov.  30, 1893  in  Turners  Falls, 
Mass.  In  1917  he  received  his  BSEE,  then  joined 
Hartford  Electric  Light  Co.  He  worked  for  James 
McKinney  &  Sons,  Eastern  Bridge  &  Structural 
Co.,  and  for  27  years  the  Worcester  County 
Engineering  Department,  where  he  was  a  civil 
engineer.  In  1 959,  he  started  work  at  Wachusett 
Engineering  &  Construction  Co.,  Holden,  where 
he  held  the  post  of  chief  engineer. 

Mr.  Spofford,  a  Mason,  was  a  registered 
professional  engineer  and  land  surveyor  in  Mas- 
sachusetts. He  was  also  registered  in  New  York. 
He  was  the  father  of  Winslow  Spofford,  '56. 

Charles  C.  Alvord,  '18,  a  retired  mechanical 
engineer  and  consultant  for  Norton  Co.,  died  on 
August  28, 1979  in  Hyannis,  Massachusetts  at 
the  age  of  82. 

He  retired  from  Norton's  machine  division 
operation  in  Worcester  in  1 961 ,  and  then  served 
as  a  consultant  for  Norton-Asquith,  its 
Shrewsbury,  England,  branch,  for  twenty 
months.  While  with  Norton,  he  invented  several 
machines  for  the  company. 

Before  joining  Norton  in  1936,  Alvord  was 
associated  with  his  father,  Clinton  Alvord,  '86 
(deceased)  in  the  former  Worcester  Loom 
Works.  During  his  early  years,  Alvord  built  and 
operated  wireless  sets, when  they  were  still  a 
great  novelty.  He  was  proud  of  Indian  relics  and 
Civil  War  documents  handed  down  through  the 
family  by  his  uncle,  Maj.  Henry  E.  Alvord,  who, 
after  the  Civil  War,  was  so  successful  dealing 
with  Indians  in  Kansas,  Oklahoma,  and  Texas. 

Alvord,  who  trained  in  aerial  photography  at 
Cornell  in  World  War  I,  was  born  in  Worcester 
on  Dec.  19,  1896.  He  was  a  professional  en- 
gineer and  had  a  BSME  from  WPI. 

Cornelius  A.  Callahan,  '21,  a  retired  consultant, 
died  at  his  home  in  South  Yarmouth,  Mas- 
sachusetts on  June  8, 1979. 

Following  his  graduation  as  a  chemist,  Mr. 
Callahan  worked  for  four  years  at  Hamilton 
Woolen  Co.  He  held  subsequent  posts  at  Pacific 
Mills,  Charlton  Woolen,  and  at  Haywood- 
Schuster  Woolen  Mills.  AtGoodall  Sanford,  Inc., 
he  was  a  vice  president  and  at  Stroock  &  Co., 
works  manager.  In  later  life,  he  ran  Callahan 
Realty,  Newburgh,  N.Y.,  and  was  a  real  estate 
appraiser  and  consultant. 

Mr.  Callahan  belonged  to  Lambda  Chi  Alpha, 
Tau  Beta  Pi,  Sigma  Xi,  and  Skull.  He  was  born  on 
Sept.  30, 1899  in  Winchendon,  Mass. 

Harold  C.  Johnston,  '23,  a  retired  representative 
for  Hobart  Co.,  died  at  his  home  in  Rumford, 
Rhode  Island  on  September  9, 1 979  at  the  age  of 
79. 

He  was  born  on  Nov.  12, 1900  in  North 
Easton,  Mass. ,  and  was  a  member  of  the  Class  of 
1923.  During  his  career,  he  was  with  Worthing 
Pump  &  Machine  Corp.,  Lupton  Co.,  and  Toledo 
Scale  Co.  In  1969,  he  retired  from  Hobart  Co., 
Providence,  after  thirty  years  of  service. 

A  member  of  ATO,  Johnston  had  also  be- 
longed to  the  National  Association  of  Cost  Ac- 
countants, the  Sales  Manager  Club,  the 
Chamber  of  Commerce,  the  Masons,  and  the 
Shrine.  He  was  a  member  of  the  Episcopal 
Church  and  the  Wannamoisett  Country  Club. 


38 /The  WPI  journal /  Winter  1980 


Wolcott  S.  Bissell,  '25,  died  on  September  10, 
1979  in  Hartford,  Connecticut.  He  was  75  years 
old. 

In  1965  he  retired  as  assistant  training  coor- 
dinator for  the  Connecticut  State  Highway  De- 
partment after  29  years  of  service.  He  was 
responsible  for  formulating  and  teaching  courses 
in  algebra,  trigonometry,  and  drafting.  He  had 
been  a  member  of  the  Division  of  Design  before 
transferring  to  the  Training  Division.  Earlier,  he 
was  with  Buck  &  Sheldon,  Hartford. 

Mr.  Bissell  was  a  life  member  of  the  Connect- 
icut Society  of  Civil  Engineers.  A  50-year  Mason, 
he  had  served  as  grand  secretary  in  Connecticut 
for  the  Royal  Arch  Masons,  and  had  held  many 
other  Masonic  posts.  He  belonged  to  SAE  and 
the  Connecticut  State  Employees  Association. 

A  graduate  ME  from  WPI,  Bissell  also  had  a 
BSCE  from  MIT.  He  was  born  on  March  17,  1904 
in  Hartford,  Conn. 

Raymond  H.  Amsden,  '26,  passed  away  at  his 
home  in  Reading,  Massachusetts  on  August  27, 
1979  at  the  age  of  75. 

He  retired  in  1969  following  38  years  as  a  fire 
protection  engineer  for  the  Factory  Insurance 
Association  of  Hartford.  He  traveled  the  New 
England  States,  and  was  then  a  special  agent  in 
the  Boston  office. 

A  native  of  Arlington,  N.J.,  he  was  born  on 
Jan.  25, 1904.  He  belonged  to  the  Pioneer  Club 
of  the  Factory  Insurance  Association,  and  was  a 
member  of  the  class  of  1926. 

Peter  C.  Gaskill,  '27,  a  retired  clinical  psycholo- 
gist with  the  Veteran's  Administration,  died  on 
December  1 6, 1 978  following  a  brief  illness. 

After  studying  at  WPI,  Mr.  Gaskill  received  his 
AB  from  Ohio  University  and  his  MA  from 
Washington  University.  For  many  years  he  was  a 
clinical  psychologist  with  the  Veterans  Adminis- 
tration in  Manchester,  N.H. 

He  was  a  member  and  elder  of  the  Presbyte- 
rian Church,  belonged  to  the  Masons,  the  East- 
ern Star,  and  the  American  Legion.  A  charter 
member  of  the  Londonderry  (NH)  Chamber  of 
Commerce,  he  was  voted  citizen  of  the  year  in 
1971. 

Mr.  Gaskill  was  in  World  War  II,  and  con- 
tinued as  a  lieutenant  colonel  in  the  Army  Re- 
serve. He  served  three  terms  in  the  New  Hamp- 
shire legislature.  He  was  a  member  of  Lambda 
Chi  Alpha.  A  native  of  Worcester,  he  was  born 
on  Dec.  8,  1903. 


Ernest  T.  Parsons,  '27,  died  in  Manchester,  New 
Hampshire  on  September  3,  1979  at  the  age  of 
74. 

He  was  born  on  Jan.  28, 1905  in  Easthampton, 
Mass.  In  1 927  he  received  his  BSEE  from  WPI.  He 
worked  33  years  as  district  transformer  spe- 
cialist, sales  engineer,  and  manager  of  the  Man- 
chester office  of  the  General  Electric  Company. 
He  joined  the  Public  Service  Company  of  New 
Hampshire  in  1959,  serving  as  commercial- 
industrial  sales  supervisor  until  his  retirement  in 
1969.  After  retirement,  he  engaged  in  consult- 
ing engineering  work. 

Mr.  Parsons  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappa, 
Skull,  IEEE,  the  Rotary  Club,  and  the  Masons.  He 
was  past  president  of  the  Tri-County  Electric 
Associates,  past  chairman  of  the  board  of  trus- 
tees at  Camp  Foster,  and  he  was  a  registered 
professional  engineer  in  New  Hampshire. 

Frank  R.  Roeder,  '27,  a  retired  civil  engineer, 
passed  away  on  August  20,  1979  in  Sarasota, 
Florida. 

He  was  born  on  Nov.  20, 1 902  in  Turners  Falls, 
Mass.  After  graduating  as  a  civil  engineer,  he 
joined  the  Metropolitan  District  Commission, 
Boston,  where  he  was  employed  until  his  retire- 
ment. He  had  served  the  MDC  in  various 
capacities  including  that  of  draftsman  in  the 
Water  Supply  Commission  and  a  senior  civil 
engineer  in  the  Construction  Division. 

Frank  R.  Joslin,  '29,  a  retired  system  vice  presi- 
dent of  the  New  England  Electric  System,  died  on 
August  24, 1979  in  University  Hospital  in  Bos- 
ton. He  was  71. 

As  system  vice  president,  he  was  responsible 
for  the  labor  department  and  various  operating 
functions.  He  had  started  work  at  New  England 
Power  Co.  in  Worcester  in  1928.  Since  that  time, 
he  had  held  increasingly  responsible  posts 
throughout  his  45  years  with  the  company.  He 
retired  in  1973. 

Mr.  Joslin  was  born  on  May  1 , 1 908  in  Oxford, 
Mass.  He  was  a  member  of  the  Class  of  1 929  and 
belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappa.  In  1948  he 
graduated  from  the  advanced  management 
program  at  Harvard  Business  School. 

His  career  with  New  England  Electric  was 
interrupted  three  times.  From  1933  to  1937  he 
was  a  general  superintendent  for  two  CCC 
construction  camps.  He  helped  develop  Myles 
Standish  State  Forest  in  Plymouth  and  Assonet 
State  Forest.  In  1 938  and  1 939  with  the  PWA,  he 
helped  in  the  reconstruction  of  Derby  Wharf, 
Central  Wharf,  Salem  Customs  House,  and  John 
Derby  House.  Later  he  worked  for  the  federal 
government  on  the  National  Research  Defense 
Committee  of  the  Office  of  Scientific  Research 
and  Development. 

In  1946,  he  rejoined  New  England  Electric, 
and  was  soon  named  a  vice  president  of  New 
England  Power  Co.  In  1959,  he  became  chief 
spokesman  of  the  company's  negotiating  com- 
mittee which  bargained  with  unions  of  all  system 
companies.  He  became  vice  president  of  New 
England  Power  Service  Co.  in  1962  and  system 
vice  president  five  years  later. 


While  a  resident  of  Bedford,  he  served  on  a 
number  of  local  committees,  including  the 
school  building  committee,  the  library  board  of 
trustees,  and  as  chairman  of  the  school  commit- 
tee. He  was  named  director  of  the  Nashua  River 
Watershed  Association.  He  and  his  wife  com- 
pletely restored  the  Fitch  Tavern,  which  is  now  in 
the  National  Historic  Register. 

After  retiring,  Joslin  was  named  executive 
coordinator  of  the  New  England  Construction 
Users  Council.  He  belonged  to  the  Rotary  Club. 

George  J.  Tsatsis,  '29,  of  Massapequa,  New 
York  passed  away  recently. 

For  many  years  he  was  with  Consolidated 
Edison,  which  he  served  as  division  engineer  and 
executive  staff  assistant.  He  was  born  on  January 
6, 1 906.  He  was  a  member  of  the  Class  of  1 929. 

John  T.  Tomkins,  '30,  of  Newport  News,  Vir- 
ginia, died  last  August  after  a  long  illness.  He  was 
70. 

He  retired  from  the  machinery  design  depart- 
ment at  Newport  News  Shipbuilding  in  1974 
after  44  years.  He  belonged  to  ATO,  the  Society 
of  Naval  Architects  and  Marine  Engineers,  the 
Propeller  Club,  the  James  River  Country  Club, 
and  the  Newport  Lions  Club,  of  which  he  was  a 
past  president. 

He  was  born  on  Sept.  17,  1908  in  Philadel- 
phia. In  1930  he  received  his  BSCE  from  WPI. 

William  E.  Grubert,  '35,  the  retired  manager  of 
the  chemical  hazards  department  of  the  Royal- 
Globe  Insurance  Company,  died  on  August  15, 
1 979  after  a  long  illness.  He  was  67. 

Mr.  Grubert  designed  the  first  motor  vehicle 
directional  signal  as  a  class  project.  He  also 
designed  Underwood's  first  noiseless  portable 
typewriter. 

During  his  career  he  was  with  Underwood, 
Elliot  and  Fisher,  F.D.A.  Insurance  Co. ,  and  the 
Army  Air  Corps  in  World  War  II.  After  leaving  the 
service,  Grubert  was  employed  by  Royal-Globe 
Insurance,  New  York  as  senior  vice  president  and 
manager  of  commercial  lines  and  chemical 
hazards  department.  He  retired  in  1972. 

Mr.  Grubert  was  a  cofounder  of  the  New  York 
chapter  of  the  Society  of  Fire  Protection  En- 
gineers, of  which  he  was  a  charter  member  and  a 
past  president.  An  outstanding  fire  protection 
engineer,  he  was  very  active  in  the  Conference 
of  Special  Risk  Underwriters  and  the  National 
Fire  Protection  Association.  He  belonged  to  SAE 
and  the  Drug  &  Chemical  Club.  In  1935  he 
graduated  as  a  mechanical  engineer.  He  was 
born  April  19,  1912  in  Westfield,  Mass.  It  is 
being  suggested  that  if  any  wish  to  remember 
Bill  Grubert,  that  a  contribution  be  made  to  The 
Center  For  Fire  Safety  Studies,  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester,  Massachusetts 
01609,  in  Memory  of  William  E.  Grubert.  This  is 
a  new  program  which  has  been  set  up  to  award 
Master  of  Science  Degrees  in  Fire  Protection 
Engineering  and  is  the  first  such  program  in  this 
country. 


Winter  1980 /The  WPI  journal/ 39 


Albert  L.  Delude,  Jr.,  '38,  a  chief  engineer  at  the 
Providence  Granite  Co.  for  25  years,  died  on 
August  21,  1979  in  Providence,  Rhode  Island. 

He  was  born  on  Jan.  21, 1917  in  Worcester.  In 
1938,  he  received  his  BSCE,  and  was  employed 
by  the  Metropolitan  District  Water  Supply  Sys- 
tem Commission,  Boston.  He  was  involved  with 
construction  at  Quonset,  R.I.  Naval  Air  Station, 
Richmond  (Fla.)  Naval  Air  Station,  and  the 
Marine  barracks  at  Camp  Lejeune,  N.C.  Briefly, 
he  was  employed  at  Prestressed  Concrete  and 
Smith  Concrete  Products,  Kinston,  N.C.  before 
joining  Providence  Granite. 

Mr.  Delude,  WPI  Alumni  Council  representa- 
tive of  the  Class  of  1938,  belonged  to  ASCE.  He 
was  a  registered,  professional  engineer. 

Sidney  F.  Perkins,  '38,  of  Athol,  Massachusetts 
died  in  Worcester  on  July  29,  1 979. 

He  was  a  district  manager  for  the  Mas- 
sachusetts Electric  Co.  for  the  past  40  years, 
including  the  last  1 1  years  in  Gardner.  He  had 
also  been  a  commander  in  the  U.S.  Navy  during 
World  War  II  and  in  the  Korean  conflict.  Prior  to 
serving  as  Gardner  manager,  he  was  stationed  at 
Massachusetts  Electric  in  Worcester,  and  at  Nar- 
ragansett  Electric  in  Providence. 

Perkins  belonged  to  Theta  Chi,  the  Methodist 
Church,  the  Masons,  and  the  Shrine.  He  was  a 
graduate  of  WPI 's  School  of  Industrial  Manage- 
ment and  a  registered  professional  engineer  in 
Rhode  Island.  He  was  born  on  June  13,  1915  in 
Millbury.  In  1938  he  graduated  as  an  electrical 
engineer. 


William  L  Kay,  '39,  of  Point  Pleasant,  New 
Jersey,  passed  away  on  August  9,  1 979. 

He  was  born  on  Aug.  9,  1916  in  Scotia,  N.Y. 
For  many  years,  until  his  retirement,  he  was  a 
research  chemist  at  du  Pont  in  Wilmington  and 
Newport,  Delaware.  He  had  a  PhD  from  New 
York  University. 

Dr.  Kay  belonged  to  Lambda  Chi  Alpha,  Sigma 
Xi,  and  the  American  Chemical  Society.  He 
graduated  as  a  chemist  from  WPI. 

Malcolm  N.  Pilsworth,  Jr.,  '47,  a  physicist  at  the 
U.S.  Army  Natick  Labs.,  Natick,  Massachusetts, 
died  on  August  11,1 979  in  Framingham  Union 
Hospital. 

He  was  born  on  Sept.  10,  1918  in  Worcester, 
and  graduated  as  an  electrical  engineer  in  1947. 
During  his  lifetime  he  was  with  the  Naval 
Ordnance  Lab.,  Washington,  D.C.,  Landers, 
Frary  &  Clark,  and  Tracerlab  in  Waltham,  Mass. 
He  held  a  BA  from  Colgate,  a  master's  degree 
from  Cornell.  He  belonged  to  Sigma  Xi  and  Phi 
Beta  Kappa. 

Mr.  Pilsworth  served  in  the  Navy  in  World  War 
II.  He  was  active  in  scouting  and  with  the 
Masons. 

Raymond  B.  Phaneuf ,  '49,  of  Lynnfield  Center, 
Massachusetts  died  on  July  1 5,  1 979  in  Boston. 
A  native  of  Woonsocket,  R.I.,  he  was  born  on 
January  29, 1923.  During  his  career,  he  worked 
for  Worcester  Pressed  Steel,  Clevite  Transistor, 
Itek  Corp.  and  Bar  Industries.  For  the  past  six 
years,  he  owned  and  operated  National  Radio 
Corp.,  Melrose.  He  served  in  the  Air  Force  in 
World  War  II,  and  belonged  to  Theta  Chi.  In 
1949  he  received  his  BSME  from  WPI. 


40/  The  WPI  Journal  /  Winter  19X0 


iffi 


Summer  1 980 


i 


Alumni  term  trustee 
nominations  being 
received 

Each  year  the  WPI  Alumni  Associa- 
tion has  the  opportunity  to  nomi- 
nate alumni  for  consideration  for 
positions  on  the  WPI  Board  of  Trust- 
ees. Candidates  are  selected 
through  a  balloting  process  con- 
ducted by  the  Alumni  Association's 
Alumni  Council,  and  a  Trustee 
Search  Committee  of  the  Associa- 
tion is  responsible  for  assuring  that 
there  are  enough  candidates  each 
year  for  the  positions  available.  Paul 
W.  Bayliss,  '60,  chairman  of  that 
committee,  has  recently  announced 
that  his  committee  is  now  receiving 


petitions  for  consideration  for  nom- 
ination for  terms  beginning  in  July 
1981. 

Alumni  may  submit  petitions 
which  contain  the  appropriate  num- 
ber of  verified  signatures  on  or  be- 
fore October  3,  1980.  They  should 
be  mailed  to  Mr.  Bayliss  c/o  the 
WPI  Alumni  Office,  Boynton  Hall, 
Worcester,  MA  01609.  Questions  re- 
garding the  procedures  for  the  for- 
mal submission  for  proposals 
should  be  directed  to  Stephen  J.  He- 
bert,  '66,  Alumni  director,  at  WPI, 
telephone  (617)  753-1411. 


Editor:  I  found  the  article,  "A  room 
at  the  top,"  about  Boynton  Hall's 
clock  tower  (in  the  Winter  1980 
Journal)  very  refreshing.  I'm  glad  to 
see  that  the  wall  of  graffiti  was  left 
untouched  during  the  recent  reno- 
vations, at  least  so  far.  I  sincerely 
hope  it  will  be  left  as  is.  Nearly  ev- 
eryone has  left  his  name  and  date  of 
visit  on  some  obscure  landmark  at 
some  time  in  his  life,  secretly  hop- 
ing it  will  be  found  and  recognized, 
hopefully  years  later.  I  suppose  it's  a 
way  of  immortalizing  some  small 
part  of  ourselves.  To  paint  over  the- 
se "fossils"  of  WPI  students  would 
be  truly  sad.  Obviously  that  small 
piece  of  wall  has  brought  some  hap- 
piness (perhaps  sadness)  to  some, 
and  someone  felt  it  could  touch  mo- 
re people  (hence  the  publication  of 
the  article  in  a  prominent  place  in 
the  WPI  Journal. )  Please  help  see 
that  this  small  unobtrusive  spot  is 
left  as  it  has  been  for  these  past 
years,  to  be  enjoyed  by  future  senti- 
mentalists. Thank  you  for  your  con- 
cern and  the  article. 

—  Walter  A.  Perkins,  '75 
Keene,  NH 

Editor's  note:  The  graffiti  are  still 
there,  and  probably  will  be  for  the 
next  century  or  so.  In  a  related  vein, 
someone  recently  asked  why  WPI 
had  gone  to  all  the  trouble  and  ex- 
pense to  put  sheet-rock  on  the  walls 
of  that  nearly  inaccessible  and  un- 
usable room  in  the  tower.  Building 
code  requirements,  that's  why. 


Summer  1980 


IIIPp 


o 


Vol.  84,  No.  1 


8 


On  Gossamer  Wings 

Paul  MacCready,  this  year's  Commencement 
speaker  and  designer/builder  of  the  Gossamer  Condor  and 
Gossamer  Albatross  aircraft,  discusses  the  consequences  of  re- 
search into  human-powered  airplanes. 

"The  Electric  Disco  Chicken  . . .  ?" 

The  story  of  one  man,  twenty  chickens,  and  more 

than  five  thousand  photographic  exposures,  all  in  4Vi  minutes. 

The  long  ride  of  Edward  Delano 

Roger  Perry  tells  the  tale  of  this  remarkable  alum- 
nus who  rode  his  bicycle  3100  miles  to  attend  his  class's 
50th  reunion. 


17        Reunion  1980 

A  brief  look  back  at  that  wonderful  weekend. 

24        Your  class  and  others 

32        The  Peep  Toad  Potter 

How  not  to  stay  a  physicist:  the  story  of  Dick  Farrell,'64. 

43        What  handicap? 

John  Pavao's  success. 

45  How  much  is  it  worth? 

American  Appraisal's  Lee  Hackett,  '61,  either 
knows  or  can  find  out  fast. 

46  Completed  careers 


Editor:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Alumni  Information  Editor:  Ruth  S. 
Trask 

Designer:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Typesetting:  County  Photo  Composit- 
ing, Inc.,  Jefferson,  Mass.,  and  Davis 
Press,  Inc.,  Worcester,  Mass. 

Printing:  Davis  Press,  Inc.,  Worcester, 
Mass. 

Alumni  Publications  Committee: 
Donald  E.  Ross,  '54,  chairman;  Robert 
C.  Gosling,  '68;  Sidney  Madwed,  '49; 
Samuel  W.  Mencow,  '37;  Kathleen  Mo- 
lony,  '77;  Stanley  P.  Negus,  Jr.,  '54. 


Address  all  correspondence  to  the  Edi- 
tor, The  WPI  Journal,  Worcester  Poly- 
technic Institute,  Worcester, 
Massachusetts  01609.  Telephone  (617) 
753-1411. 

The  WPI  Journal  is  published  for  the 
WPI  Alumni  Association  by  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute.  Copyright  © 
1980  by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute. All  rights  reserved. 

The  WPI  Journal  (usps  no.  0148-6128)  is 
published  five  times  a  year,  quarterly 
plus  a  catalog  issue  (identified  as  no.  2) 
in  August.  Second  Class  postage  paid  at 
Worcester,  Massachusetts. 


WPI  ALUMNI  ASSOCIATION 

President:  John  H.  McCabe,  '68 
Senior  Vice  President:  Peter  H.  Horst- 

MANN,  '55 

Vice  President:  Clark  L.  Poland,  '48 

Secretary-Treasurer:  Stephen  J.  Hebert, 
'66 

Past  President:  William  A.  Julian,  '49 

Executive  Committee  members-at- 
large:  Philip  B.  Ryan,  '65;  Donald  E. 
Ross,  '54;  Anson  C.  Fyler,  '45;  Harry  W 
Tenney,  Jr.,  '56 

Fund  Board:  Henry  Styskal,  Jr.,  '50, 
chairman;  Richard  B.  Kennedy,  '65; 
Gerald  Finkle,  '57;  Philip  H.  Pud- 

DINGTON,  '59;  RlCHARD  A.  DAVIS,  '53;  C. 

John  Lindegren,  '39;  John  H.  Tracy,  '52 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1980/1 


On  Gossamer 

Wings 


by  Paul  B.  MacCready 


The  discipline  of  seeking 
high-performance  on  puny 
human  power  lets  you  see  and 
understand  just  how  efficient 
vehicles  can  be. 


Paul  B.  MacCieady,  president  of  AeroViwnment,  Inc., 
and  winner  of  the  two  Kremer  prizes  for  human- 
powered  aircraft,  gave  this  address  at  WPI's  Commence- 
ment in  May.  Since  then,  he  has  unveiled  the  next 
aircraft  in  the  Gossamer  series  —  the  Gossamer  Pen- 
guin, powered  by  solar  cells  and  batteries. 


Human-powered  flight  has  been  a  goal  of  mankind  from 
as  early  as  man  had  developed  to  where  he  could  envy 
the  birds.  However,  once  the  Wright  brothers  mastered 
powered  flight  in  1903,  people  realized  that  this  old  avi- 
ation goal  of  human-powered  flight  was  not  all  that 
important.  Engines,  as  powerful  as  100  or  1000  men, 
were  then  available  to  move  aviation  to  achievements 
which  were  never  conceived  of  except  by  science  fiction 
writers.  A  few  enthusiasts  kept  the  dream  of  self- 
powered  flight  just  barely  alive. 

Then  in  1959  a  remarkable,  creative  event 
occurred.  A  British  industrialist,  Henry  Kremer,  put  up 
a  prize  for  the  first  sustained  controlled  human-powered 
flight  (i.e.,  the  human-powered  analog  to  the  Wright 
brothers'  1903  flight).  During  the  18  years  the  prize 
stood  unclaimed,  it  was  increased  to  nearly  $100,000, 
the  largest  prize  in  aviation.  Once  Kremer  established 
the  prize,  it  was  inevitable  that  someone  would  win  it. 
But  it  was  not  inevitable  that  anyone  would  put  up  such 
a  prize  —  that  was  a  unique  and  creative  event. 

In  the  summer  of  1976 1  got  the  idea  of  how  to  win 
the  prize  and,  with  a  team  of  a  dozen  friends  and  rela- 
tives, created  the  Gossamer  Condor.  It  won  Kremer's 
prize  a  year  later.  To  our  astonishment,  the  aviation 
establishment  showed  great  enthusiasm  for  this  esoteric 
and  impractical  feat  —  and  the  vehicle  went  to  the 
Smithsonian  National  Air  and  Space  Museum  in  Wash- 
ington, where  it  hangs  next  to  the  Wrights'  aircraft  and 
Lindbergh's  Spirit  of  St.  Louis. 

We  had  found  Gossamer  Condor  was  a  fun  airplane 
to  fly.  You  don't  have  to  be  either  an  athlete  or  a  pilot;  a 
60-year-old  woman  flew  it,  as  well  as  a  10-year-old  boy. 
The  dark  side  of  having  the  aircraft  hang  in  the  Smithso- 
nian, for  us,  was  that  we  could  no  longer  fly  it.  So  I  cal- 
culated what  an  improved  version  would  do  if  made 
more  accurately.  The  computations  showed  that  our 
primary  pilot,  Bryan  Allen,  could  probably  keep  it  aloft 
for  five  hours,  while  we  ordinary,  out-of-condition  mor- 
tals could  fly  it  five  or  ten  minutes.  This  sounded  like 
fun,  but  we  were  too  lazy  to  start  work  on  Gossamer 
Albatross  immediately. 


2  /  Summer  1 980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


Mr.  Kremer  announced  a  new  prize:  £100,000  (mo- 
re than  $200,000)  for  a  human-powered  flight  across  the 
English  Channel.  We  suspect  he  thought  winning  this 
one  would  take  another  18  years;  we  felt  winning  it 
quickly  would  be  a  piece  of  cake!  The  basic  design  of  our 
aircraft  was  already  calculated  on  the  back  of  an  enve- 
lope. I  should  mention  that  a  WPI  1951  alumnus,  my 
brother-in-law  Kirke  Leonard,  was  a  key  member  of  the 
Gossamer  Condor/Gossamer  Albatross  teams,  and  in 
fact  did  the  primary  development  work  on  the  use  of  ad- 
vanced composite  materials  in  the  Gossamer  Albatross. 
In  1979  the  DuPont  company  sponsored  our  efforts,  we 
got  to  England,  and  Bryan  Allen  successfully  flew  the 
Gossamer  Albatross  across  the  Channel,  miraculously 
doing  it  on  the  first  try. 

Incidentally,  this  cross-Channel  flight  was  the 
human-powered  analog  to  Louis  Bleriot's  first  flight 
across  the  English  Channel  in  1909  —  a  flight  which 
greatly  stimulated  aviation  in  Europe,  and  which  is 
regarded  by  many  Europeans  as  a  more  important  mile- 
stone than  the  Wright  brothers'  flight.  The  next  early 
milestone  of  powered  flight,  which  everyone  agrees  to, 
was  Lindbergh's  Atlantic  crossing.  (However,  neither 
Henry  Kremer  nor  Bryan  Allen  has  evidenced  the 
slightest  interest  in  continuing  with  human-powered 
analogs  to  early  aviation  milestones!) 


While  working  on  these  projects,  we  focused  single- 
mindedly  on  the  simple  goal  of  winning  the  prizes. 
Since  the  events,  we  have  had  time  and  occasion  to  try 
to  view  the  projects  from  a  broader  perspective.  We're 
beginning  to  realize  that  our  projects  were  pretty  spe- 
cial. They  demonstrated  approaches  to  solving  technical 
problems  and  handling  management  tasks  which  may 
be  applicable  elsewhere.  They  gave,  to  us  and  others, 
perspectives  which  may  be  rather  important.  All  this 
does  not  mean  we  are  unusually  bright  or  efficient.  In 
fact,  one  of  the  important  perspectives  which  emerges  is 
that  rather  ordinary  people,  with  a  bit  of  luck  and  a 
strong  drive,  can  literally  "reach  for  the  stars"  and  suc- 
ceed. 


As  i  think  back  over  the  Gossamer  aircraft  programs, 
there  are  several  main  points  which  stand  out.  The  first 
of  these  is  this:  You  can  do  amazing  things  in  efficiency 
and  energy  conservation  when  you  are  really  pushed  — 
and  the  things  you  can  do  may  be  very  important  in  the- 
se days  of  non-infinite  energy  resources. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1980/3 


In  1976,  before  the  vacation  when  I  thought  up  the 
Gossamer  aircraft,  it  had  never  occurred  to  me  (or 
others)  that  a  person  could  fly  on  just  1/4  horsepower  — 
or  that  you  could  make  a  96-foot  wingspan  airplane  that 
weighed  only  55  pounds.  But  I  was  pushed  by  the  lure  of 
Kremer's  prize  money,  because  I  was  in  the  uncomforta- 
ble position  of  having  guaranteed  a  friend's  debt  which 
couldn't  get  paid.  I  think  Kremer  put  up  his  prize  money 
for  just  this  reason  —  to  push  (or  lure)  people  to  reach 
the  goal  he  had  in  mind.  (Our  project  turned  out  to  be 
more  expensive  than  hoped,  so  much  of  the  profit  was 
an  illusion.  But  the  initial  push  was  there. )  And  now  I 
am  delighted  to  have  had  that  negative  pressure  of  the 
debt  —  it  caused  the  launching  of  a  unique  program.  It's 
one  more  example  that  almost  any  circumstance  can 
eventually  be  turned  to  benefit. 

You  can  certainly  make  a  better  human-powered 
airplane  than  the  Gossamer  Albatross,  but  any  human- 
powered  airplane  will  probably  be  so  large  and  flimsy 
that  it  will  not  have  an  adequate  margin  of  safety.  We 
now  find  that  our  thoughts  about  future  developments 
do  not  concern  human-powered  aircraft.  Our  aviation 
thoughts  are  about  vehicles  operating  on  two  or  three 
horsepower  —  10  times  what  a  human  puts  out,  but  still 
small  enough  power  output  that  it  can  be  derived  from 
battery  or  solar  power,  or  even  from  a  large  model  air- 
plane engine.  My  dream  is  for  a  silent  electric  plane, 
battery  or  solar,  with  which  I  can  soar  with  hawks,  fly 
with  migrating  ducks,  and  cruise  the  shoreline  at  100 
feet. 

But  there  is  another  area  of  development  which  is 
of  greater  interest  and  greater  importance  —  ultra- 
efficient  surface  transportation.  Virtually  everyone  on 
the  Gossamer  Condor/Gossamer  Albatross  team  is  also 
involved  in  the  development  and  racing  of  streamlined 
bicycles.  Each  year,  in  a  competition  in  southern  Cali- 
fornia, the  Internation  Human  Powered  Vehicle  Associ- 
ation sponsors  exciting  races  for  these  exotic  vehicles. 
The  vehicles  all  involve  enclosing  the  occupant  (or 
occupants)  in  a  streamlined  fairing,  rolling  on  bicycle- 
type  wheels,  with  bicycle  pedals  and  sprockets  or  equiv- 
alent mechanisms.  And  each  year  you  see  man  moving 
faster  across  the  surface  of  the  earth  under  his  own 
power  than  he  has  ever  moved  before. 

A  year  ago,  a  two-person  machine  first  exceeded  55 
mph  —  and,  in  a  touching  ceremony,  the  drivers  were 
awarded  honorary  speeding  tickets  by  the  California 
State  Highway  Patrol.  This  year,  a  single-person 
machine  went  faster  than  55  mph,  while  a  tandem 
machine  exceeded  100  kph,  almost  63  mph.  That  same 
two-person  machine,  in  a  long-distance  hour  race,  went 
46  miles  —  a  mind-boggling  feat  (whether  feat  or  feet!). 
These  bikes  make  an  ideal  university  project;  I'm  sur- 
prised that  so  far  only  three  schools  have  gotten 
involved. 

These  vehicles  at  present  are  no  more  "practical" 
than  our  human-powered  aircraft,  but  in  these  surface 
vehicles  you  can  see  the  rudiments  of  something  very 
practical.  The  discipline  of  seeking  high-performance  on 


Once  Kremer  established  the 
prize,  it  was  inevitable  that 
someone  would  win  it.  But  it 
was  not  inevitable  that 
anyone  would  put  up  such  a 
prize  —  that  was  a  unique  and 
creative  event. 


puny  human  power  lets  you  see  and  understand  just 
how  efficient  vehicles  can  be  —  and  with  this  under- 
standing you  are  free  to  use  various  power  sources,  such 
as  human  pedaling,  an  electric  motor  powered  by  a  bat- 
tery or  solar  cells,  a  tiny  gasoline  engine,  wind-aided 
motion,  even  a  large  rubber  band,  or  combinations  of 
these.  In  mass  production  you  could  have  an  all-weather 
vehicle,  retailing  at  just  a  few  hundred  dollars,  which 
protects  you  in  a  crash-resistant  cocoon,  powered  say  by 
an  eight-pound  battery/ electric  motor  system  aug- 
mented by  pedaling  as  desired,  in  which  you  could  com- 
mute at  about  30  mph  while  maintaining  your  body  in 
good  physical  condition.  You  may  think  such  a  Mickey 
Mouse  device  would  never  fit  into  our  present  transpor- 
tation system  . . .  but  just  wait  until  OPEC  turns  off  our 
oil  imports  for  three  or  four  months.  Our  perceptions 
can  then  change  very  quickly. 

The  mood  of  the  country  now  seems  to  be  evolving 
toward  a  willingness  to  go  to  war  in  the  Middle  East  in 
order  to  maintain  our  dependence  on  the  oil  and  on  the 
volatile  politics  and  religions  of  that  area.  It  seems  more 
rational,  to  me,  to  play  with  new  techniques  in  trans- 
portation, and  with  new  life  styles,  rather  than  go  chas- 
ing so  hard  after  a  vanishing  resource  (and,  incidentally, 
one  which  pollutes  our  atmosphere). 


The  second  main  point  I  learned  from  the  Gossamer  air- 
craft is  that  it  is  useful  to  approach  a  problem  with  a 
knowledge  of  fundamentals  but  without  the  deadening 
influence  of  prior  detailed  expertise  and  prejudice. 

As  I  look  back  at  the  Gossamer  Condor/Gossamer 
Albatross  projects,  I  see  that  the  main  factor  which 
made  them  work  was  the  vehicle's  structure  —  and  the 
main  reason  that  we  came  up  with  the  right  structure 
was  that  I  had  no  background  in  aircraft  structures. 
Every  other  serious  team  had  excellent  credentials  in 


4  /  Summer  1980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


You  or  I  have  the  best  chance 
of  thinking  clearly  in  new 
areas,  where  there  is  little 
precedent.  Such  areas  are  the 
most  fun  to  work  in,  because 
you  can  make  a  significant 
impact  without  years  of  effort. 


aircraft  structural  design,  and  what  every  team  built 
looked,  structurally,  like  a  regular  airplane  or  glider.  But 
that  was  not  the  right  approach  for  this  sort  of  pioneer- 
ing vehicle.  My  background  included  some  fundamen- 
tals in  beam  bending  and  buckling,  and  those 
fundamentals  were  helpful.  But  basically  this  design 
was  started  with  a  clean  slate  (and  with  some  knowl- 
edge of  wire-braced  indoor  models  and  wire-braced  hang 
gliders). 

I  would  rather  fly  in  a  jet  airliner  designed  structur- 
ally by  members  of  these  other  teams  than  by  anyone 
with  my  poor  credentials  in  structures.  There  is,  of 
course,  a  vital  role  for  the  experts,  but  if  they  are  getting 
into  a  new  area  they  have  to  recognize  that  their  exper- 
tise may  inhibit  their  search  for  solutions.  After  think- 
ing about  the  role  of  structures  experts  in 
human-powered  airplanes,  I  began  noting  various 
instances  where  knowledge  stifles  solutions,  and  noting 
that  this  happens  rather  more  often  than  expected. 

For  example,  I  was  discussing  with  a  10-year-old 
how  you  put  a  needle  on  water  and  have  the  surface  ten- 
sion keep  it  afloat.  The  question  was,  how  to  set  on  the 
water  the  largest  possible  needle  which  could  stay 
afloat.  How  would  you  lower  it  and  release  it  delicately? 
With  your  fingers?  With  tiny  wire  hooks?  With  an  elec- 
tromagnet? After  a  little  discussion,  the  10-year-old 
said,  "freeze  the  water,  set  the  needle  on  it,  and  let  the 
water  melt."  Would  that  really  work?  I  suspect  so.  But  I 
realized  that  I  could  not  have  thought  of  that  solution 
because  in  my  youth  I  had  set  needles  down  with  my 
fingers,  and  my  mind  was  blocked  toward  ingenious 
ways  of  setting  the  needle  down  carefully.  The  10-year- 
old,  even  though  afflicted  with  dyslexia,  did  not  have 
my  blinders  on.  He  understood  what  question  I  was  ask- 
ing better  than  I  did  —  the  question  was  how  do  you  get 
the  largest  possible  needle  to  be  floating  on  the  water, 
not  how  do  you  set  it  down.  I  had  introduced  an  unnec- 
essary constraint. 

A  Nobel  laureate  in  physics  told  me  recently  that  he 
noted  the  greatest  creativity  is  found  in  young  physi- 
cists, and  this  creativity  usually  involved  ignoring  a  pre- 
sumed constraint  which  their  elders  had  always 
assumed  necessary.  As  a  last  note  on  the  needle  inci- 
dent, when  I  told  the  story  to  a  friend,  he  said  that  when 
he  was  10  he  set  the  needles  down  on  the  water  with  a 
strap  of  toilet  paper,  which  quickly  dissolved  away. 

10-year-olds  have  another  attribute.  They  ask  ques- 
tions and  are  perfectly  happy  to  ask  "dumb"  questions 
(which  may  not  turn  out  to  be  so  dumb) .  As  you  get  old- 
er, you  think  maybe  you  should  know  the  answer  and  so 
you  are  ashamed  to  ask  a  question  which  might  label 
you  stupid.  Many  of  the  most  effective  grownups  feel 
secure  in  themselves  and  are  comfortable  asking  those 
"dumb"  questions  . . .  which  helps  their  effectiveness. 

Now,  when  confronted  with  a  new  problem,  I  find 
myself  asking,  "What  would  a  10-year-old  say?"  But  I 
know  in  most  cases  I  cannot  come  up  with  the  10-year- 
old's  approach  because  of  the  years  of  experience  which 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1980  /  5 


have  coated  over  my  originality.  You  or  I  have  the  best 
chance  of  thinking  clearly  in  new  areas,  where  there  is 
little  precedent.  Such  areas  are  the  most  fun  to  work  in, 
because  you  can  make  a  significant  impact  without 
years  of  effort.  After  a  field  is  established,  and  particu- 
larly after  it  is  so  established  that  they  teach  it  in  col- 
lege, the  excitement  is  lessened,  even  though  the 
importance  of  the  field  may  have  grown  larger.  To  pre- 
pare yourself  for  the  new  areas,  the  exciting  subjects 
which  have  fallen  through  the  cracks  of  established 
fields,  you  want  a  good  background  in  fundamentals  and 
in  how  to  get  jobs  done  —  things  which  the  WPI  Plan 
has  had  clearly  in  mind  during  your  years  here. 


The  third  main  lesson  of  the  Gossamer  aircraft  is  that 
technical  aspects  usually  make  up  only  a  small  percent- 
age of  a  total  program.  Business  management,  determi- 
nation, media  interaction,  timing,  and  luck  may 
represent  the  major  factors.  The  rule  that  invention  is  2 
percent  inspiration  and  98  percent  perspiration  is  surpri- 
singly accurate.  I  won't  belabor  this  point  except  to  note 
that,  in  the  Gossamer  Albatross  program,  probably  90 
percent  could  be  called  business  management  —  fi- 
nance, personnel,  hangar  leases,  logistics,  backup  boats, 
communications,  etc.  The  goal  was  to  win  the  prize,  so 
I  did  whatever  moved  the  project  best  toward  that  goal 
—  and  that  meant  only  a  little  new  technology  but  a  lot 
of  project  management. 


The  early  morning  flights  at 
remote  airports,  watching  the 
big,  miraculous  bird  slip 
silently  through  the  still  air  — 
these  represented  magic 
moments. 


I  may  have  given  you  the  feeling  that  the  Gossamer 
Condor/Gossamer  Albatross  projects  were  just  work. 
The  work  came  first  (my  time  was  actually  spent  play- 
ing hooky  from  my  company,  AeroVironment),  but 
there  was  much  more  to  the  project  than  work.  It  was 
fun  at  all  times.  It  didn't  take  me  away  from  my  family; 
rather  my  family  got  deeply  involved  in  it,  with  my  sons 
being  the  main  test  pilots.  It  got  me  involved  with  many 
new  friends. 

The  early  morning  flights  at  remote  airports, 
watching  the  big,  miraculous  bird  slip  silently  through 
the  still  air  —  these  represented  magic  moments.  There 
was  a  flavor  of  pioneering  throughout,  which  I've  only 
come  to  appreciate  recently  since  I've  had  time  to  read 
about  the  history  of  aviation  in  the  first  30  years  of  this 
century.  Then  there  was  success,  even  some  small 
financial  reward,  and  an  appreciation  for  the  feat  by  the 
public  which  still  seems  to  us  more  than  is  deserved. 

All  this  introduces  my  last  point,  which  is  that 
work  can  be  fun  if  you  pick  a  challenge  you  are  excited 
about.  I  recently  heard  Edwin  Link,  an  aviation  and 
oceanography  pioneer,  quoted  as  saying  he  never 
worked  a  day  in  his  life  —  meaning  it  was  all  just  fun.  I 
think  you  too  will  find  this  to  be  true.  Eventually  you 
will  find  that  everything  you  have  learned  and  will  learn 
in  the  future  will  have  value.  Politics,  exercise,  physiol- 
ogy, history,  art,  etc.  —  it's  all  as  important  as  engineer- 
ing . . .  eventually. 

Your  WPI  Plan  experience  has  given  you  a  unique 
start;  you  are  emerging  into  a  period  when  there  are 
great  challenges.  You  have  merged  academic  technol- 
ogy, humanities,  and  real-world  industry.  It  will  be  an 
exciting  next  half-century,  the  most  exciting  and  best 
there  has  ever  been. 

UIPI 


6  /  Summer  1980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


"The  Electric  Disco  Chicken". . .  ? 


Bob  Goodness,  '70,  is  a  man  of 
many  facets.  From  1973  through 
1976  he  designed  and  manufactured 
hang  gliders.  Currently  he  is  a  tool 
designer  for  General  Motors  in 
Framingham,  Mass.  But  you'd 
never  guess  what  his  latest  venture 
is. 

For  the  past  year  or  so,  Bob  has 
spent  a  major  part  of  his  spare  time 
making  an  animated  film  entitled 
"The  Electric  Disco  Chicken." 
Honest.  It  premiered  February  1  at 
the  Boston  Film/Video  Foundation, 
and  its  outrageous  comic  appeal 
generated,  within  a  few  weeks,  two 
offers  to  air  it  on  Boston  TV  sta- 
tions. It  has  won  prizes  at  both  the 
New  England  Film  Festival  and  at 
the  Toronto  Film  Festival. 

A  year  may  seem  like  a  long 
time  to  produce  a  AVi  minute  film, 
but  that's  not  uncommon  for  ani- 
mation by  an  independent  filmma- 
ker. According  to  Bob,  "there's 
actually  about  three  minutes  of  ani- 
mation, where  chickens  dance  a 
'Saturday  Night  Fever'  type  line 
dance,  and  that  three  minutes 
required  over  5,000  individual 
moves  of  the  chickens." 

Perhaps  we  should  make  it 
clear  here  just  what  kind  of 
chickens  these  are  that  Bob  is  talk- 
ing about.  They're  the  kind  you  find 
living  at  the  neighborhood  super- 
market —  plucked,  dressed,  and 
without  benefit  of  heads  or  claws. 
Frank  Perdue  would  understand. 

"I  found  myself  spending  about 
three  hours,"  Bob  continues,  "to 
film  each  ten  seconds  of  animation. 
Not  only  did  this  require  a  lot  of 
patience,  but  it  also  took  a  high  tol- 
erance for  discomfort.  The  filming 
sessions  frequently  went  late  into 
the  warm  summer  nights,  and  hav- 
ing four  uncooked  chickens  under 
hot  spotlights  for  hours  at  a  time 
stretched  my  tolerance  to  the 


limits.  (Editor's  note:  Now  how 
does  that  commercial  go!  'It  takes  a 
tough  man  to  make  a  tender 
chicken '!!)  One  night  I  even  tried 
spraying  them  with  Lysol;  but  I 
quickly  changed  to  washing  them 
in  hot  soapy  water  between  scenes. 
I  used  about  20  chickens  and  ate 
maybe  6  of  them. 

"The  other  major  time  con- 
sumer, besides  the  filming  and  con- 
struction of  a  chicken-scale  disco 
dance  floor  and  lighting,  was  pro- 
ducing an  original  disco  song.  I  had 
to  locate  a  musician  who  would 
work  within  my  limited  budget, 
and  unfortunately  he  turned  out  to 
be  somewhat  temperamental.  We 
spent  about  12  hours  in  an  8-track 
recording  studio  in  Newton 
between  Christmas  and  New  Year's 
1979  —  a  full  month  behind  sched- 
ule. The  music  did  turn  out  very 
professional,  but  the  delay  hurt  my 
distribution  efforts.  Gary  Shapiro, 
'73,  and  his  wife  Pam  helped  out 
with  the  background  vocals.  The 
music  was  the  most  expensive  part 
of  the  film,  bringing  the  total  cost 
up  to  $800,  not  counting  the  cost  of 
driving  into  Boston  three  to  four 
days  a  week." 

What  would  motivate  Bob  to 
spend  that  kind  of  time  and  money 
to  make  a  4lA  minute  film?  Basi- 


cally, it  was  art  for  art's  sake.  "I 
don't  bowl,  watch  TV,  or  follow 
sports,"  Bob  says.  "I've  maintained 
an  interest  in  the  arts  for  many 
years.  In  the  past  I've  done  some 
sculpture  and  furniture  design. 

"Animation  has  had  a  major 
increase  in  attention  as  a  medium 
of  expression  in  the  last  ten  years, 
with  independent  filmmakers  like 
myself  working  all  over  the  world. 
Some  of  those  filmmakers  have 
given  up  their  independence  and 
joined  government-funded  studios 
like  the  National  Film  Board  of 
Canada,  or  Zagreb  in  Yugoslavia, 
because  generally  there  are  very  few 
sources  of  financial  support  for 
independents. 

"PBS  in  this  country  recently 
presented  an  opportunity  which 
could  have  returned  me  about 
$10,000  for  my  film.  Unfortunately, 
because  of  the  delay  with  the 
music,  I  didn't  have  enough  time  to 
get  the  film  through  PBS's  screen- 
ing process.  And  even  though  this 
sounds  financially  promising,  it 
was  a  pretty  rare  opportunity,  and 
PBS  program  directors  have  the 
final  say  on  which  films  are 
selected.  Independents  generally 
complain  that  the  selection  process 
is  not  democratic  enough  for  what 
is  supposed  to  be  the  'Public'  Broad- 
casting System. 

"There  are  two  other  possibili- 
ties for  making  my  money  back," 
continues  Goodness.  "The  first  is 
cable  TV.  The  second  is  a  lead  I've 
got  about  the  owner  of  a  fast-food 
chicken  restaurant  chain  in  Califor- 
nia, who  has  wanted  an  animated 
TV  commercial  for  years.  Neither  of 
these  promises  to  pay  more  than 
PBS.  And  beyond  those  opportuni- 
ties, there  are  only  film  festivals 
and  the  two  Boston  TV  offers  —  all 
of  which  pay  only  a  small  portion  of 
my  expenses.  They're  just  token 
payments,  really." 

But  making  money  from  the 
film  isn't  everything.  "The  real  sat- 
isfaction I've  received  has  been  in 
the  creative  process  . . .  and  being  in 
an  audience  when  they  get  hysteri- 
cal watching  the  Electric  Disco 
Chicken  do  his  thing  —  that's  pay- 
day for  the  psyche!" 

UIPI 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1980/7 


of  Edward  Delano 


^BA 


by  Roger  N.  Perry,  Jr.,  '45 


AT  FIRST  LIGHT  on  the 

morning  of  May  1,  Edward  R. 
Delano  kissed  his  wife 
goodbye,  climbed  on  his 
bicycle,  and  headed  eastward 
from  his  home  in  Davis, 
California.  Just  over  a  month 
later,  he  ended  his  trip.  He  had 
bicycled  3100  miles  to  attend 
his  class  reunion  at  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute. 


THIS  WOULD  HAVE  BEEN  quite  an  accomplishment 
for  any  person.  But  Ed  Delano  is  a  member  of  the  class  of 
1930,  and  he  had  ridden  a  bicycle  across  the  united 
states  to  attend  his  50th  college  reunion,  at  the  age  of 
75.  Little  wonder  that  he  was  seen  off  by  television 
crews  and  newspaper  photographers  at  that  early  hour. 

He  had  little  doubt  that  he  would  complete  the  trip. 
After  all,  he'd  returned  to  his  40th  reunion  in  1970  on 
the  same  15-speed  bicycle.  When  his  classmates  joking- 
ly asked  him  then  if  he'd  return  for  the  50th  by  the  same 
mode  of  transportation,  he  said,  "If  I  can  throw  my  leg 
over  the  saddle,  I'll  do  it."  And  Ed  is  a  man  who  keeps 
his  word. 


AS  A  YOUNG  MAN,  Ed  had  a  passion  for  long-distance 
bike  riding,  but  gave  it  up  when  he  went  to  college. 
When  he  was  58,  he  decided  to  go  back  to  the  bike.  He 
joined  one  of  the  many  bicycle  clubs  on  the  West  Coast 
and  entered  serious  competition  in  road  races  and  time 
trial  races.  By  the  time  he  retired  in  1970,  after  37  years 
as  a  California  highway  superintendent,  Ed  was  deeply 
involved  as  a  serious  bicyclist.  That  spring,  he  got  him- 
self into  condition  for  his  first  cross-country  ride.  "It 
was  something  I  had  to  try.  I  wanted  to  prove  to  myself  I 
wasn't  too  old  to  do  something  I  really  wanted  to  do," 
he  said,  looking  back  at  his  1970  ride. 

Just  to  keep  in  shape  for  his  planned  ride  back  to  his 
50th,  Ed  rode  to  Quebec  in  1975,  a  distance  of  3400 
miles.  That  same  year,  he  competed  in  the  Over  60  class 
in  the  European  Veterans  World  Road  Cycling  Champi- 
onships, placing  15th  out  of  60  entrants.  The  following 
year,  he  finished  9th  in  the  same  race.  He  has  a  habit  of 
bettering  his  time  as  he  gets  older. 

Along  the  way,  he  acquired  a  nickname  on  the  bicy- 
cle racing  circuit,  the  same  name  given  to  a  Stockton, 
California,  bank-robber  who  escaped  by  bicycle.  When 
Ed  shows  up  for  meets  on  the  West  Coast,  everyone 
knows  him  as  Foxy  Grandpa.  "The  name  stuck,"  he 
commented,  "and  I  kind  of  like  it.  I  even  have  it  stit- 
ched on  my  racing  shirt." 

About  his  real  name,  Ed  comments,  "my  family 
has  always  pronounced  it  de-LAY-no,  with  the  emphasis 
on  the  second  syllable.  That  fellow  who  lived  in  the 
White  House  for  a  few  years,  the  one  who  had  this  for  a 
middle  name,  must  have  come  from  another  branch  of 
the  family,  or  else  he  never  learned  how  to  pronounce  it. 

"Rosamond,  my  wife,  is  very  supportive  of  my  pas- 
sion for  bike  riding,  but  she's  not  a  rider  herself.  When 
we  go  out  together,  we  drive  the  car.  But  I  prefer  the 
bike,  and  I  ride  about  20  miles  a  day  year-round,  just  to 
keep  in  shape." 


Roger  N.  Perry,  Jr. ,  '45,  is  director  of  public  relations  at 
WPI.  After  writing  this  story,  he  and  his  wife  went  on 
vacation  in  Canada  —  and  took  their  bikes  along  with 
them. 


ED  HAD  PLANNED  HIS  TRIP  to  cover  the  same  route 
he'd  followed  in  1970,  and  he  figured  on  covering  the 
3100  miles  in  31  days. 

He  left  home  that  May-Day  morning,  picked  up  In- 
terstate Route  80,  and  headed  toward  the  Rocky  Moun- 
tains. 1-80  was  to  be  his  route  for  the  next  two  weeks, 
halfway  across  the  country.  "Bicyclists  are  allowed  to 
ride  the  shoulder  of  that  road  through  the  West,  and  it 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1980/9 


makes  a  beautiful  trail  for  cyclists,"  he  noted.  "The 
road  is  new  and  in  good  condition,  and  the  grades  are 
long  and  gradual  through  the  mountains." 

Ed  made  the  first  of  many  long-distance  calls  to  me 
on  his  third  night  out,  reporting  that  he'd  reached  Lov- 
elock, Nevada,  a  distance  of  272  miles.  From  then  on,  I 
began  to  feel  he  was  part  of  my  family.  I  kept  an  atlas 
near  the  telephone  at  home  to  chart  his  progress.  In  the 
office,  we  began  sticking  pins  into  a  map  of  the  country, 
with  little  flags  to  indicate  the  town,  date,  and  distance 
covered  with  each  telephone  report.  Another  map  was 
hung  in  Gordon  Library  so  others  on  campus  could  fol- 
low his  progress. 

In  those  first  calls,  Ed  reported  taking  time  out  to 
repair  flat  tires.  He  had  a  total  of  six  flats,  and  they  all 
occurred  in  the  first  week.  He  encountered  a  minor  de- 
lay while  crossing  the  Continental  Divide.  "The  grade 
wasn't  bad  on  1-80  but,  three  miles  from  the  top,  the 
road  surface  was  glazed  with  ice  and  I  had  to  walk  to  the 
summit.  Then  there  was  another  three  miles  of  ice  on 
the  down  side  before  I  could  ride  again.  But  from  there 
on,  it  was  almost  all  downhill  to  Iowa." 

Calling  from  Kimball,  Nebraska,  he  reported  a  de- 
lay when  three  inches  of  snow  fell  and  kept  him  in  Lara- 
mie, Wyoming,  for  a  day.  "It  gave  me  a  chance  to  rest 
up,  but  it  put  me  behind  schedule,"  he  said.  On  his  next 
call,  Ed  told  of  leaving  a  Nebraska  motel  at  dawn  with  a 
cold  rain  falling.  By  the  time  he  reached  the  next  town, 
15  miles  along  the  route,  he'd  decided  it  wasn't  worth 
riding  in  the  cold  rain  all  day,  so  he  checked  into  the 
first  available  motel,  losing  another  day.  "Riding  in  the 
rain  doesn't  normally  bother  me.  In  fact,  it's  a  lot  more 
comfortable  than  riding  through  a  heat  wave.  But  that 
day  in  Nebraska  it  was  just  too  cold  and  raw  to  take  a 
chance." 


BEFORE  THE  TRIP,  Ed  had  indicated  his  willingness  to 
capitalize  on  the  publicity  value  of  a  man  riding  a  bicy- 
cle 3100  miles  to  his  50th  reunion.  "After  riding  this 
distance  twice  before,"  he  observed,  "I'm  not  trying  to 
prove  anything  to  myself.  So  if  the  ride  can  help  publi- 
cize WPI,  I'm  glad  to  pitch  in." 

Taking  our  cue  from  Ed,  the  WPI  public  relations  of- 
fice alerted  news  media.  They  were  indeed  interested  in 
hearing  about  his  trip.  The  wire  services  covered  his  de- 
parture from  Davis,  and  WPI's  clipping  service  soon  be- 
gan returning  news  items  from  all  over  the  country. 
Once  he  reached  the  plains,  where  the  population  is  mo- 
re concentrated  than  in  the  western  mountains,  he  be- 
gan meeting  reporters  and  TV  crews  again. 

At  WPI  we  were  concerned  that  news  coverage 
enroute  might  slow  him  down  and  put  him  further  be- 


hind schedule,  so  we  were  somewhat  cautious  in  pacing 
the  interviews,  arranging,  whenever  possible,  for  inter- 
views to  be  held  only  after  he'd  checked  into  a  motel  for 
the  night.  News  media  along  his  route  were  alerted  a 
few  days  before  he  was  scheduled  to  pass  through  their 
area.  If  they  were  interested,  and  most  were,  I'd  give  Ed 
the  reporters'  names  and  telephone  numbers  when  he 
called  me  periodically  to  report  his  progress.  Then  he'd 
call  ahead  to  the  reporter  and  either  give  an  interview  by 
phone  or  set  a  meeting  point  along  the  way. 

"I  became  a  pretty  good  judge  of  reporters  after  a 
while,"  said  Ed.  "Of  course,  they  all  asked  about  the 
same  questions,  but  some  were  a  lot  better  at  it  than 
others." 

At  Ed's  request,  we  specifically  did  not  arrange  any 
alumni  welcoming  committees  enroute.  He  was  con- 
cerned that  these  could  slow  him  up  and  perhaps  keep 
him  up  too  late  in  the  evening.  And  since  he  never  knew 
where  he'd  be  staying  until  he  arrived,  it  would  have 
been  difficult  in  any  case  to  set  up  special  events. 


EXCEPT  FOR  THOSE  half-dozen  flat  tires  in  the  early 
part  of  the  trip,  he  had  no  mechanical  troubles.  Ed  car- 
ries a  tire  patching  kit,  a  spare  tire,  a  pump,  and  a  few 
specialized  bicycle  tools  which  he  knew  he  wouldn't  be 
able  to  borrow  from  a  friendly  mechanic's  tool  box  in 
case  of  trouble. 

He  credits  his  lack  of  mechanical  trouble  to  fore- 
sight. "I  took  my  bike  to  the  best  bicycle  mechanic  on 
the  West  Coast,  Spence  Wolf  of  the  Cupertino  Bike 
Shop.  I  told  him  to  go  over  the  whole  thing  and  replace 
any  part  that  wasn't  in  first-class  shape. 


10  /  Summer  1 980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


"My  touring  bike  is  the  best  money  can  buy,"  Ed 
continues.  "The  frame  was  made  by  Ciano  Cinelli  of  It- 
aly, who  has  now  retired.  I  bought  it  in  1969  for  just  un- 
der $300.  Today  it's  probably  worth  about  $1300,  and  if  I 
hang  on  to  it  long  enough  it  will  become  a  collector's 
item.  The  complete  bike  weighs  about  28  pounds.  It's 
one  of  three  I  own.  For  competition  racing,  I  have  a 
lightweight  bike,  which  weighs  only  about  19  pounds. 
The  third  bike  I  use  to  get  around  town." 

One  of  the  features  of  Ed's  bicycle  which  distin- 
guished it  from  every  other  on  the  road  was  a  plastic 
bubble  mounted  on  the  handlebars.  "That's  a  Zipper 
fairing,  which  I'm  trying  out  for  the  first  time.  It's  sup- 
posed to  cut  down  the  wind  resistance  by  a  few  percent. 
Since  it  only  weighs  14  ounces,  I  figured  it  was  worth  a 
try  on  a  3100  mile  trip.  Perhaps  the  value  is  mostly  psy- 
chological, I  don't  know.  It's  a  fact,  though,  that  most 
of  a  bicyclist's  energy  is  expended  overcoming  wind  re- 
sistance." 

He  travels  light.  "I'm  an  executive  traveler.  Besides 
my  emergency  spares,  I  carry  a  tooth  brush,  enough 
clothes  to  keep  warm,  and  a  lot  of  travelers  checks," 
was  a  story  he  gave  frequently  to  reporters  along  the 
way.  "I  always  stayed  in  motels.  When  I  was  lucky,  I'd 
find  a  motel  in  the  middle  of  town  where  I  could  find  a 
restaurant,  a  laundromat,  a  place  to  buy  a  newspaper, 
and  a  telephone." 

The  newspaper  did  double  duty.  After  he'd  caught 
up  on  the  news  of  the  world,  he'd  spread  the  paper  on 
the  floor  of  his  room  so  that,  when  he  oiled  the  bicycle 
chain  and  mechanical  linkages  each  night,  he  wouldn't 
drip  on  the  carpet.  "I  always  kept  my  cycle  in  my  room 
sol  could  know  it  was  safe,"  he  said.  "I'm  not  much  of  a 
television  watcher,  so  usually  I'd  lean  the  bike  up 
against  theTV  set." 


"The  grade  up  to  the 
Continental  Divide  wasn  't 
bad,  hut  three  miles  from  the 
top  the  road  surface  was 
glazed  with  ice,  and  I  had  to 
walk  to  the  summit.  There 
was  another  three  miles  of  ice 
on  the  down  side  before  I 
could  ride  again.  But  then  it 
was  all  downhill  to  Iowa. ' 


AFTER  FOLLOWING  HIS  PROGRESS  across  country,  I 
wanted  to  see  firsthand  how  Ed  lived  as  an  'executive 
tourist.'  As  he  approached  New  York  State,  I  made  ar- 
rangements to  drive  out  and  meet  him  on  the  road.  He 
told  me  the  route  he'd  follow  from  the  Pennsylvania- 
New  York  border,  where  he  was  spending  the  night. 

I  left  Worcester  early  the  next  morning.  By  mid- 
afternoon,  I'd  left  the  New  York  Thruway  and  picked  up 
U.S.  Route  20,  then  Alternate  Route  20. 1  knew  that 
he'd  be  somewhere  along  this  stretch.  I  passed  through 
towns  named  Geneseo  and  Warsaw  without  seeing  him. 
Realizing  that  we'd  need  a  motel  along  the  route,  I  be- 
gan noting  the  mileage  as  I  passed  each  one,  mentally 
sizing  up  its  quality. 

After  driving  through  Varysburg  at  about  5  p.m.,  I 
began  to  wonder  if  somehow  I'd  missed  him.  Perhaps  Ed 
had  been  stopped  at  a  store  just  as  I'd  passed  by.  But  no, 
things  were  just  fine  and,  five  miles  beyond  the  town, 
there  he  was,  pedaling  up  a  slight  grade  through  the 
beautiful  upstate  New  York  farm  country. 

It  was  a  happy  reunion  there  beside  the  road.  Mine 
was  the  first  familiar  face  Ed  had  seen  in  three  weeks. 
For  my  part,  I  was  delighted  to  see  how  well  he  looked 
after  riding  2700  miles  since  he  left  home.  We  compared 
mileage  figures  and  found  that  his  estimated  distance  to 
go  was  only  5  miles  more  than  my  trip  that  day.  (Ed  fig- 
ures his  distance  by  adding  up  the  little  numbers  printed 
between  towns  on  a  road  map. ) 

He  was  happy  to  learn  that  the  Varysburg  Hotel  was 
only  five  miles  ahead  of  him,  because  he  was  ready  to 
call  it  a  day.  I  drove  back,  and  he  arrived  nearly  as  quick- 
ly, because  it  was  all  downhill  to  the  town.  But  we  were 
in  for  a  disappointment.  The  hotel  was  completely  filled 
with  construction  workers  from  a  nearby  highway  pro- 
ject. The  next  motel  was  16  miles  farther  on,  and  I  re- 
called that  it  hadn't  looked  very  promising.  Also,  the 
road  was  mostly  uphill  at  that  point. 

"Tell  you  what,"  I  said.  "Put  your  bike  in  the  back 
of  my  pickup  truck  and  let's  go  find  a  good  motel.  I  can 
bring  you  back  to  this  same  starting  point  in  the  morn- 
ing." As  we  drove  north,  we  saw  a  sign  for  a  Holiday  Inn 
at  the  Thruway  in  Batavia.  "I  always  like  to  stay  at  Hol- 
iday Inns,"  commented  Ed.  "They  have  everything  I 
need,  and  they  treat  me  royally."  We  had  better  luck 
here,  and  they  had  two  rooms  available  for  us. 

"Do  you  ever  have  trouble  getting  a  room?"  I  asked, 
looking  over  Ed's  functional  cycling  attire  and  three- 
week-old  beard.  "No,"  he  said,  "but  I  do  have  a  specific 
technique  I  usually  use.  I  put  on  a  tired  look  —  but  with 
a  sort  of  wistful  smile  —  and  I  ask,  'Would  you  have  a 
room  for  a  weary  cyclist  who's  been  on  the  road  since 
dawn?'  It  hasn't  failed  me  yet." 

After  we'd  checked  into  our  rooms,  both  of  us  were 
ready  for  dinner.  "First,  I  could  go  for  a  nice  cold  beer," 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1980/11 


said  Ed.  "Then  we'll  take  a  look  at  the  menu." 

"What  does  a  cross-country  bicycle  rider  eat?"  I 
asked.  "I  eat  everything,"  was  the  prompt  answer,  "but 
not  too  much  of  anything.  I  like  a  big  breakfast.  That's 
really  the  best  meal  of  the  day  because  it  has  to  last  me  a 
long  time.  Then  during  the  day  I  usually  stop  at  a  store 
and  buy  an  apple,  a  banana,  some  grapes,  and  some- 
times I  just  sit  on  the  curb  and  eat  them  right  there. 
When  you  ride  a  bike,  you  lose  all  your  dignity.  I  can't 
carry  much  with  me,  so  I  just  buy  what  I  can  eat  right 
away.  I  snack  that  way  about  every  two  hours." 

For  dinner  that  night,  Ed  had  soup  and  a  salad. 
There  was  a  salad  bar,  and  he  tried  a  little  of  everything 
except  the  hot  peppers.  "A  salad  is  really  a  well- 
balanced  meal.  It's  got  everything  you  need." 

As  we  discussed  food,  it  became  clear  that  he  under- 
stood the  nutritional  value  of  everything  he  ate  and 
that,  on  the  road,  he  was  careful  to  eat  what  he  needed 
for  strength  and  stamina.  "I'm  not  a  health  food  nut," 
he  said.  "I  enjoy  just  about  everything.  While  I'm  rid- 
ing, I  don't  eat  much  beef,  though.  I  never  use  sugar  out 
of  the  bowl,  and  I  don't  add  salt  to  my  meals.  There's 
enough  in  most  food,  anyway." 

As  we  returned  to  our  rooms  on  the  second  floor,  Ed 
ran  up  the  stairs,  two  at  a  time.  "Always  run  up  stairs," 
he  said.  "It's  good  for  you."  This  from  a  man  who  had 
pedaled  nearly  a  hundred  miles  that  day! 

He  called  California,  a  nightly  ritual,  to  tell  Rosa- 
mond where  he  was  and  to  check  on  the  news  of  home. 
Then  he  oiled  his  bicycle.  Once  he'd  completed  his  eve- 
ning routine,  he  relaxed  in  a  chair  and  we  talked  a  bit.  I 
commented  on  his  beard,  which  was  beginning  to  look 
distinguished.  "I  don't  like  beards,"  snorted  Ed.  "But  on 
a  trip  like  this,  I  carry  only  the  essentials,  and  even  a  ra- 
zor adds  weight.  Now  the  beard  is  starting  to  itch,  and 
one  of  the  first  things  I'm  going  to  do  when  I  get  to 
Worcester  is  go  to  a  barber  shop  and  get  a  shave,  a  hot-oil 
shampoo,  a  haircut,  and  a  facial . . .  the  works!  But  you 
know,  even  though  I  don't  like  beards,  I  find  having  one 
on  this  trip  is  an  asset.  Somehow  the  beard  seems  to 
give  me  credibility." 

"How  many  people  do  you  find  in  your  age  bracket 
in  bicycle  competition,"  I  asked,  when  the  conversation 
turned  to  his  other  bicycling  activities. 

"There's  one  guy  from  Florida  who's  84,  and  he  still 
rides  in  competition.  If  he  ever  decides  to  retire,  then  I 
guess  I'll  be  the  oldest  competitive  rider  in  the  country. 
But  there  are  a  lot  of  riders  not  too  much  younger  than  I 
am,  and  each  year  there  seem  to  be  a  lot  more. 

"When  you  think  about  it,  bicycle  riding  is  one  of 
the  best  things  you  can  do  to  keep  in  good  physical  con- 
dition. There's  no  danger  of  damaging  your  legs  and 
feet,  like  you  can  do  in  running.  Besides,  you  can  go 
about  three  times  as  fast  and  see  three  times  as  much  on 


a  bike.  If  you  ride  hard,  you  give  the  old  heart  a  good 
workout.  It's  like  any  muscle  in  your  body,  the  more 
you  make  it  work,  the  stronger  it  gets." 

Does  he  smoke?  "I  used  to  smoke,  but  I  guess  you 
could  say  I  didn't  do  it  for  a  living.  It  would  take  me 
three  or  four  days  to  finish  a  pack  of  cigarettes.  Then 
one  day  I  just  decided  I  didn't  want  to  smoke  any  more, 
and  I  haven't  touched  one  since.  Now  I  find  the  smell  of 
tobacco  repulsive . " 


Once  he  was  back  on  the 
highway,  our  brief  visit  was 
over.  Ed  quickly  disappeared 
from  sight  in  my  rear-view 
mirror.  It  would  take  him  five 
more  days  to  reach  where  Vd 
be  at  dinnertime. 


HAD  ED  NOTICED  any  changes  since  1970  as  he  re- 
traced his  earlier  route  along  the  old  U.S.  numbered 
highways  in  the  eastern  half  of  the  country?  "I  hardly 
recognized  the  same  route.  There  have  been  a  lot  of 
changes  in  the  buildings  along  the  roads.  But  the  biggest 
change  was  the  condition  of  the  roads  themselves.  Some 
of  our  Midwestern  states  should  be  ashamed  of  what 
they  call  highways.  And  I  speak  as  someone  who  spent 
37  years  in  the  highway  business!" 

Safety  is  a  matter  of  vital  concern  to  a  bicycle  rider 
in  an  automotive  society.  "My  professional  highway  ex- 
perience makes  me  particularly  aware  of  hazardous  situ- 
ations, and  I  just  don't  let  myself  get  into  them,"  he 
said.  "Intersections  are  the  most  dangerous,  and  you 
have  to  keep  your  wits  about  you.  I  always  ride  on  the 
shoulder  of  the  road,  even  though  in  many  places  it's  a 
pretty  rough  ride.  I  wear  protective  headgear  to  keep  the 
old  head  in  one  piece  if  I  should  take  a  spill.  I  never  ride 
at  night;  that's  suicide. 


12  /  Summer  1980  /  The  WP1  Journal 


"Dogs  are  about  the  only  hazard  you  can't  antici- 
pate. There's  something  about  dogs  and  bicycles.  They 
must  think  you're  running,  and  they  want  to  chase  any- 
thing that  runs.  When  I  see  a  dog,  I  size  up  the  situation. 
If  I  can  beat  him  on  a  sprint,  I  pour  it  on.  If  he's  got  the 
lead  on  me,  I'll  sometimes  coast  without  moving  my 
legs  and  maybe  he'll  ignore  me.  I've  been  pretty  lucky 
so  far." 

Ed  wasn't  so  lucky  a  year  and  a  half  ago.  He  was  hit 
by  a  truck.  His  bike  was  demolished  and  one  leg  broken 
in  two  places.  "Fortunately  it  happened  near  a  hospital 
with  an  excellent  orthopedic  surgeon,  and  he  put  me 
back  together  real  fine.  When  I  told  him  I  wanted  to  get 
back  on  the  bike  as  soon  as  I  could,  he  had  me  come 
back  so  he  could  graft  on  some  extra  bone  to  give  my  leg 
more  strength." 

Up  to  this  point,  I  had  considered  Ed  a  remarkable 
person  to  have  already  ridden  a  bike  so  far  at  his  age.  But 
to  do  it  after  just  recovering  from  a  bad  leg-break?  My 
admiration  grew. 

He  looked  at  his  watch.  It  was  nine  o'clock.  Time 
to  turn  in.  Ed's  day,  and  mine  too  the  next  morning,  be- 
gan at  5  a.m.  "I  like  to  start  as  early  as  I  can,  but  most 
dining  rooms  don't  open  until  six,"  he  said.  This  one 
was  no  exception.  We  were  the  first  customers. 

I  was  interested  to  see  what  Ed's  biggest  meal  of  the 
day  would  be.  First  he  had  a  large  glass  of  orange  juice. 
Then  a  bowl  of  cereal.  "I  try  to  get  raisin  bran,  because 
it  has  a  lot  of  bulk  to  it,"  he  said.  The  next  course  was  a 
plate  of  eggs  with  coffee. 

We  struck  up  a  conversation  with  the  waitress,  who 
didn't  have  many  other  customers  that  early.  "I'm  rid- 
ing a  bicycle  from  California  to  attend  my  50th  class  re- 
union at  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,"  he 
announced  to  her,  carefully  enunciating  the  name  of  his 
alma  mater.  "Now  be  sure  you  spell  that  right,"  he 
added  with  a  twinkle. 

As  we  both  finished,  he  noticed  that  I'd  left  a  sprig 
of  parsley  on  my  plate.  I  never  eat  parsley.  "It's  good  for 
you,"  he  said.  "You  should  always  eat  everything." 

Ed  speaks  like  a  man  who  means  what  he  says. 

I  ate  it. 

By  6:30,  with  breakfast  behind  us,  Ed  was  chafing 
to  be  on  his  way.  Checking  out  was  easy  for  him  be- 
cause, except  for  the  bike  parts  on  a  carrier,  his  luggage 
is  spread  throughout  the  seven  pockets  in  his  cycling 
shirt. 

Once  he  was  back  on  the  highway,  our  brief  visit 
was  over.  He  quickly  disappeared  from  sight  in  my  rear- 
view  mirror.  It  would  take  him  five  more  days  to  reach 
where  I'd  be  at  dinnertime. 


SOME  of  the  photos  I'd  taken  of  Ed  were  used  by  the 
Worcester  Telegram  the  next  morning.  This  was  one  of 
several  reports  on  Ed's  cross-country  progress  printed  by 
the  Worcester  newspapers.  As  he  neared  Worcester,  it 
seemed  that  everyone  I  met  knew  about  his  trip  and  was 
rooting  for  him.  Perhaps  he  had  kindled  that  spirit  of  ad- 
venture which  lies  dormant  in  most  of  us  as  we  become 
entwined  in  life's  normal  routine. 

Fair  skies  and  tailwinds  blessed  the  final  leg  of  his 
journey,  and  by  Sunday  evening,  June  1,  he  was  in 
Springfield,  just  60  miles  short  of  his  goal.  However,  the 
official  welcoming  ceremonies  were  scheduled  for  noon 
on  Tuesday,  based  on  earlier  estimates  of  the  time  he'd 
need  to  cover  the  remaining  distance.  "No  problem," 
said  Ed.  "I'll  just  loaf  along  to  Sturbridge,  and  that  will 
give  me  plenty  of  time  to  do  the  last  20  miles  on  Tues- 
day morning." 

For  more  than  a  month  Ed  Delano  had  ridden  alone. 
"That's  the  only  way  to  ride.  No  two  people  ride  at  the 
same  rate  of  speed,  so  one  is  always  lagging  behind  the 
other  and  making  it  hard  to  keep  up  a  comfortable 
pace."  But  he  did  not  ride  alone  for  those  last  seven 
miles. 

In  Auburn,  he  was  met  by  Alumni  Secretary  Steve 
Hebert,  '66,  and  News  Bureau  Manager  Steve  Donahue, 
'29,  who  had  known  Ed  in  his  college  days.  They  were 
driving  a  restored  1953  Buick  convertible  with  signs 
taped  to  the  sides  identifying  the  grizzled  bicyclist.  Also 
in  the  entourage  was  Douglas  Thompson,  78,  supervi- 
sor of  the  WPI  television  studio,  who  videotaped  the  last 
leg  of  Ed's  trip  and  in  the  next  two  days  prepared  a  15- 
minute  documentary  of  Ed's  trip  for  showing  at  Re- 
union. Together  with  a  Worcester  Police  Department 
motorcycle  officer,  they  escorted  him  right  through 
downtown  Worcester,  past  City  Hall,  to  the  WPI  cam- 
pus. 

The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1980  /  13 


According  to  Steve  Hebert,  people  on  the  sidewalk 
waved  and  drivers  beeped  their  horns  as  they  recognized 
that  man  on  the  bike  they'd  been  reading  about  in  the 
papers. 

When  radio  reports  from  the  escort  indicated  that 
Ed's  arrival  was  imminent,  the  bell  atop  Washburn 
Shops  was  rung  to  let  everyone  on  campus  know  it  was 
time  to  gather  in  front  of  Boynton  Hall  for  the  grand  fin- 
ish of  this  historic  ride. 

At  1 1 :40  on  the  morning  of  June  3,  1980,  Ed  Delano 
rode  up  the  long  sweeping  drive  from  Boynton  Street, 
passed  under  a  banner  marking  the  official  end  of  the 
line,  and  waved  his  hand  in  a  happy  salute.  Whatever 
words  he  may  have  said  in  that  moment  of  personal  tri- 
umph were  lost  forever  in  the  cheers  of  the  crowd. 


In  1970  he  said,  "If  I  can  throw 
my  leg  over  the  saddle,  I'll  ride 
back  for  the  50th  Reunion. " 
And  Ed  is  a  man  who  keeps 
his  word. 


PRESIDENT  CRANCH,  in  his  official  welcome,  noted 
that  Ed  Delano  obviously  had  the  physique  of  a  Tarzan 
and  the  instincts  of  a  homing  pigeon.  Alumni  President 
Jack  McCabe,  '68,  presented  Ed  with  a  plaque  showing 
his  cross-country  route  superimposed  on  a  map  of  the 
United  States.  City  Councillor  Sara  Robertson,  repre- 
senting Mayor  Jordan  Levy,  presented  Ed  with  a  key  to 
the  City  of  Worcester.  She  mentioned  that,  as  a  native 
Californian,  she  was  particularly  pleased  to  be  part  of 
the  welcoming  ceremonies.  And  to  prove  her  sincerity, 
she  planted  a  big  kiss  right  on  his  month-old  beard! 

Rick  Ferron,  '82,  presented  Ed  with  a  certificate 
proclaiming  him  an  honorary  member  of  the  WPI 
Commuter's  Association.  He  next  gave  Ed  a  tee-shirt 
bearing,  on  the  front,  the  official  symbol  of  the  group 
and,  on  the  back,  the  words  foxy  grandpa,  honorary 

COMMUTER. 

Ed's  response  was  brief,  but  heartfelt.  He  had  kept 
the  promise  he'd  made  to  his  classmates  ten  years  ear- 
lier. This  was  probably  his  last  cross-country  ride,  be- 
cause there's  no  real  challenge  left  when  you've  done  it 
three  times.  He  was  proud  of  his  alma  mater  and  hoped 
that  perhaps  his  trip  had  helped  make  more  people 
across  the  country  aware  of  WPI.  And  perhaps,  too,  his 
trip  might  have  been  an  inspiration  for  a  few  retirees  to 
take  up  bicycling. 


THEN  Food  Service  Manager  Scott  Migala  stepped  for- 
ward with  a  huge  cake,  appropriately  decorated,  to  be 
shared  by  the  whole  welcoming  crowd.  After  posing  for 
TV  cameras  and  newspaper  photographers,  there  was  a 
small,  informal  luncheon  in  Morgan  Hall.  Among  the 
guests  were  Professors  Jim  Matthews  and  Harold 
Hilsinger,  both  of  whom  had  made  more  leisurely  cross- 
country rides  on  bicycles.  "You  fellows  who  ride  with 
packs  on  your  backs  and  camp  out,  you're  my  real  he- 
roes," exclaimed  Ed.  "I  didn't  even  work  up  a  good 
sweat  as  an  executive  tourist." 

Ed  was  driven  to  the  Holiday  Inn,  where  he  was 
welcomed  by  innkeeper  Maranes  Nikitas  himself,  who 
had  been  eagerly  awaiting  his  celebrated  guest.  The 
signboard  in  front  carried  the  message,  "Welcome  to 
WPI's  Ed  Delano,  '30." 

Even  before  he'd  had  a  chance  to  shower  and 
change  into  the  conventional  clothes  he'd  shipped 
ahead,  reporters  were  waiting  to  talk  with  him.  Boston 
Herald- American  writer  Joe  Heaney  started  his  inter- 
view in  Ed's  hotel  room.  He  was  interrupted  by  a  call 
from  the  AARP  Newsletter  editor.  Joe  finished  his  inter- 
view while  Ed  was  realizing  his  month-long  dream  of 
"getting  the  works"  at  Barber's  Crossing,  the  barber 
shop  I  use.  Heaney's  article  concluded  with  the  fact  that 


"Always  run  up  stairs, "  he 
said.  "It 's  good  for  you. "  This 
from  a  man  who  had  pedaled 
nearly  100  miles  that  day! 


proprietor  George  Bamikas  wouldn't  take  any  money 
for  his  work.  "How  many  customers  come  3100  miles 
for  my  services?  This  one's  on  me,"  said  George. 

For  two  days,  Ed  was  besieged  by  writers  who  want- 
ed his  story.  Even  though  he  said  much  the  same  to 
each,  he  patiently  answered  all  questions.  Within 
hours,  his  story  was  carried  by  the  wire  services  and  on 
radio  stations.  He  even  had  calls  at  his  hotel  room  from 
radio  stations  in  North  Carolina  and  Los  Angeles,  from 
all-night  talk  shows  who  wanted  him  to  share  his  expe- 
riences with  their  listeners. 

By  June  5th,  when  the  Class  of  1930's  three-day  re- 
union officially  began,  Ed  was  finally  able  to  call  his 
time  his  own  again.  Clean-shaven  and  wearing  a  busi- 
ness suit,  he  could  pass  through  a  crowd  without  being 
recognized  as  the  bearded  bicycle  rider  who  had  cap- 
tured everyone's  imagination  two  days  earlier.  And 
that's  the  way  he  liked  it.  At  his  reunion,  Ed  was  happy 
to  be  just  one  of  the  class,  reliving  those  great  days  on 
campus  in  the  pre-depression  era  and  bringing  each  oth- 
er up  to  date  on  personal  events  of  the  past  half  century. 

When  the  class  held  a  dinner  at  the  Plaza  Club,  lo- 
cated on  the  top  floor  of  the  Worcester  County  National 
Bank  Building,  Ed  did  slip  back  into  character.  Instead 
of  taking  the  elevator,  the  way  everyone  else  did,  he 
climbed  the  stairs  —  up  24  floors! 

When  he  made  the  final  notes  in  his  travel  log,  Ed 
noted  that  he  had  made  the  trip  in  33  Vi  days,  almost 
three  days  better  than  his  time  ten  years  earlier;  but  still 
he  missed  his  planned  schedule  by  two  and  a  half  days. 
Ed  is  a  purist  who  counts  total  elapsed  time.  But  to  ev- 
eryone else  who  had  become  a  part  of  his  cross-country 
ride,  Ed  was  right  on  schedule  in  terms  of  riding  time. 
Weather  had  kept  him  indoors  for  two  days,  and  the  fi- 
nal day  he  delayed  in  Sturbridge  in  order  to  synchronize 
his  campus  arrival  with  the  planned  ceremonies. 

Everyone  wanted  to  know  if  he  planned  to  ride  back 
home.  No,  one  way  was  plenty.  Another  frequently 
asked  question  was  whether  he  would  be  riding  his  bike 
to  his  60th  reunion. 

"Well,"  Ed  commented  by  way  of  an  answer,  "I've 
ridden  across  the  country  three  times  now,  and  the  nov- 
elty is  beginning  to  wear  off.  I  don't  believe  I'll  make 
any  promises  about  the  60th." 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1980/15 


HE  TOOK  APART  his  bicycle,  packing  it  away  in  a 
canvas  bag  for  shipment  home.  When  he  left  Worcester 
at  the  end  of  the  Reunion,  he  stopped  at  St.  Louis  for 
two  days  of  physical  evaluation  at  the  Washington  Uni- 
versity Medical  School.  A  team  of  research  people  there 
have  followed  him  for  the  past  ten  years,  for  Ed  is  one  of 
their  subjects  in  a  long-term  study  on  aging. 

In  a  letter  to  Ed  after  the  visit,  Dr.  James  Hagberg 
wrote: 

"We  would  like  to  express  our  thanks  for  your  visit;  it 
was  inspiring  for  all  of  us  and,  on  top  of  that,  simply  a  lot  of 
fun. 

"Your  body  weight  this  time  was  1.5  pounds  lower  (175.6 
pounds)  than  during  your  1978  visit.  Your  body  fat  was  also 
very  similar  to  the  12.5%  measured  on  your  first  visit.  Your . . . 
oxygen  consumption  was  . . .  substantially  lower  than  mea- 
sured earlier,  and  is  probably  indicative  of  the  lower  intensity 
riding  experienced  during  the  last  month.  It  would  be  higher 
following  your  training  for  the  national  time  trials,  I'm  sure. 

"Your  maximal  voluntary  ventilation  (where  you 
breathed  as  much  as  possible  in  15  seconds)  was  185  liters  per 
minute,  which  is  exceptional.  Predicted  normal  for  your  age 
would  be  80.  Your  vital  capacity  was  18  percent  above  predict- 
ed normal. 

"Your  heart  rate,  blood  pressure,  and  electrocardiographic 
response  to  the  treadmill  test  were  perfect." 

On  Ed's  first  Saturday  back  in  California,  he  partici- 
pated in  the  district  25-mile  time  trial  championship, 
covering  the  distance  in  one  hour,  nine  minutes,  and 
seventeen  seconds.  Of  the  five  riders  in  the  Grand  Mas- 
ters Class  (55  and  older),  he  placed  second.  All  his  com- 
petition was  under  60.  This  finish  qualified  him  to  enter 
the  national  championships  later  in  Bisbee,  Arizona. 


LOOKING  BACK  at  Ed's  ride,  I  can  recall  few  events  in 
recent  years  that  have  stimulated  so  much  genuine  in- 
terest in,  and  affection  for,  one  man.  I  think  there  could 
be  several  reasons  for  this. 

Each  of  us  looks  to  the  future  with  some  concern, 
for  we  see  too  much  evidence  that  old  age  is  not  really  a 
golden  period  of  happy  and  healthy  retirement  for  many 
people.  But  even  those  who  never  met  him  can  see  in  Ed 
Delano  the  hope  that  maybe,  just  maybe,  they  too  have 
a  chance  to  enjoy  their  later  years  with  as  much  gusto. 

The  formula  he  lives  by  is  essentially  simple.  Eat- 
ing sensibly  in  moderation,  doing  what  he  enjoys,  get- 
ting plenty  of  exercise,  and  enjoying  his  friends.  To 
those  who  have  the  pleasure  of  knowing  him,  Ed  has 
other  endearing  attributes.  He's  essentially  a  quiet  man, 
who  listens  more  than  he  talks.  In  spite  of  his  notable 
accomplishments,  he  is  humble.  And  although  he  be- 
lieves passionately  in  his  way  of  life,  he  chooses  to  teach 
it  by  example  rather  than  by  preaching.  Ed  Delano  is  a 
gracious  and  considerate  gentleman,  the  kind  of  man 
we'd  all  like  to  have  living  next  door ...  or  as  a  class- 
mate. Just  ask  anyone  from  the  Class  of  1930. 

UIPI 


16  /  Summer  1980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


I960 


1925 


r  ^ 


■ 


.WWW! 


*J1 


■ 


^f' 


/ 


REUNION -1980 


at  right:  The  Class  of  '55  enjoying 
themselves  at  Higgins  House. 
above:  Winners  of  this  year's  alumni 
awards.  From  left,  Herbert  F.  Taylor 
Award  recipients  (for  service  to  the 
Alumni  Association)  Peter  H.  Horst- 
mann,  '55;  Plummer  Wiley,  '35;  and 
Leonard G.  Humphrey,  Jr.,  '35.  Robert 
H.  Goddard  recipient  for  professional 
achievement,  Raymond  J.  Forkey,  '40; 
(not  shown  is  Robert  C.  Stempel,  '53, 
also  a  Goddard  winner).  Recipient  of  the 
WPI  Award,  for  service  to  the  college  by 
a  non-alumnus,  is  Robert  W.  Stoddard. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1980/17 


1 955  's  25th 


Twenty-five  years  certainly  flew  by. 
They  must  have,  because  everyone 
looked  the  same  and  it  seemed  like 
nearly  yesterday  we  had  been 
together.  37  members  of  our  class, 
along  with  30  wives  and  guests, 
returned  for  the  reunion,  which  was 
certainly  festive  and  one  that  we 
will  always  remember.  It  was  a 
great  weekend! 

It  all  started  with  the  opening 
of  our  Hospitality  Suite  in  the 
Fuller  Residence  complex,  which 
became  the  focal  point  for  all  our 
activities.  Frank  and  Madeline 
Horan,  Pete  and  Barbara  Horst- 
mann,  and  Ray  and  Ginnie  San- 
soucy  served  as  the  hosts.  The  suite 
was  a  busy  place  and  made  an  ideal 
place  to  meet.  Several  times  we  had 
about  70  people  in  the  suite,  and  we 
never  ran  out  of  beer  or  good  con- 
versation. 

Friday  night  the  early  arrivals 
spent  several  hours  in  the  suite 
renewing  fond  memories  of  their 
four  years  at  WPI  and  in  Worcester. 


The  group  comprising  Jerry  and 
Charlotte  Backlund,  Earl  and  Pat 
Bloom,  Bob  Holden,  Hank  and 
Donna  Manseau,  Bob  and  Rose- 
Marie  Neunherz,  Hal  and  Shirley 
Sauer,  Bob  Schultz,  Dick  and  Hella 
Sieron,  Chuck  and  Barbara  Walters, 
and  the  hosts  went  to  dine  at 
Maxine's,  a  new  restaurant  in 
downtown  Worcester.  They  later 
returned  to  the  Hospitality  Suite 
and  closed  it  at  about  3:00  a.m. 

The  reunion  luncheon  gave  Ray 
Sansoucy,  our  class  gift  chairman, 
the  opportunity  to  present  our 
$35,600  gift,  which  with  matching 
funds  approached  $56,000  to  the 
College.  Our  goal  was  $35,000.  Our 
gift  represented  an  excellent  gift  for 
a  25th-year  class,  both  in  terms  of 
dollars  and  the  percentage  participa- 
tion by  members.  It  appears  that 
our  interest  and  enthusiasm  for  WPI 
has  not  changed.  By  a  vote  of  the 
members  of  the  class,  the  funds  will 
be  used  for  the  new  main  entrance- 
way  in  the  now-being-renovated 
Atwater  Kent  electrical  engineering 
and  computer  science  laboratory. 
Also  at  the  luncheon,  our  own  Pete 


Horstmann  and  Bob  Stempel 
received  two  of  the  six  coveted 
awards:  Pete  the  Herbert  F.  Taylor 
Award  for  distinguished  service  to 
WPI,  and  Bob  the  Robert  H.  God- 
dard  Award  for  outstanding  profes- 
sional achievement.  Unfortunately, 
Bob  was,  at  the  last  minute,  unable 
to  join  us  for  the  reunion. 

President  and  Mrs.  Ed  Cranch 
served  as  hosts  in  their  home  for  a 
reception  for  the  class.  This  gave  us 
an  opportunity  to  meet  them  and 
discuss  WPI  and  to  socialize.  The 
banquet  was  held  at  the  Higgins 
House,  and  the  class  picture  was 
taken  inside  . . .  and  getting  every- 
one assembled  proved  to  be  quite  a 
task  in  itself.  The  banquet  was 
superb,  thanks  to  the  Alumni 
Office,  the  caterer,  and  more  partic- 
ularly to  Frank  Horan,  John 
Calhoun,  Pete  Horstmann,  Ray 
Sansoucy,  and  Ralph  Mongeon,  who 
planned  it.  Frank  also  served  as 
master  of  ceremonies  and  presented 
very  smoothly  a  brief  program  that 
highlighted  members  of  the  class, 
the  personalities  of  the  class,  things 
that  happened  while  at  Tech,  and 


the  events  leading  up  to  the 
reunion.  We  even  resurrected  the 
Goat's  Head  for  the  occasion. 

Frank  announced  that  Tarek 
Shawaf  presented  a  very  generous 
gift  to  the  class,  which  pushed  us 
over  our  goal.  Tarek  had  a  number 
of  kind  words  to  say  about  WPI  and 
about  all  his  friends  in  this  country. 

Ralph  Mongeon  recognized  Ray 
Sansoucy  and  Frank  Horan  for  their 
efforts  as  chairmen  of  the  Reunion 
Gift  and  Reunion  committees.  Both 
Ray  and  Frank  thanked  their  com- 
mittees for  their  efforts  in  making 
both  programs  highly  successful. 
The  Reunion  Gift  Committee 
included  Ray  Frank  Horan,  Paul 
Brown,  Bob  Olson,  Art  Rudman, 
and  Ed  Bouvier.  The  Reunion  Com- 
mittee included  Frank,  Ralph  Mon- 
geon, Pete  Horstmann,  John 
Calhoun,  and  Ray  Sansoucy. 

Our  special  guests  for  the 
weekend  and  banquet  were  Carl  and 
Arlene  Koontz  and  Merl  and  Sandy 
Norcross.  Merl  reflected  back  on 
some  members  of  our  class,  like 
Earl  Bloom,  Ed  Bouvier,  Don  Gre- 
nier,  Pete  Horstmann,  and  Bob 
Schultz,  the  'jocks'  of  the  class.  Bob 
Holden  presented  Merl  with  a  'gift,' 
borrowed  from  WPI,  that  he  had 
been  using  for  the  past  25  years. 
Carl  Koontz  recalled  his  memories 
of  the  civil  engineering  graduates  by 
highlighting  Lou  Axtman,  Paul 
Brown,  Jocko  Conlon,  Frank  Horan, 
Bob  Schultz,  and  Tarek  Shawaf. 
Merl  and  Carl  brought  back  many 
fond  memories. 

The  yearbook  was  distributed 
at  the  banquet,  along  with  appropri- 
ate comments  by  Ralph  Mongeon, 
who  assembled  the  information  and 
oversaw  its  publication  with  the 
help  of  the  Alumni  Office.  From  the 
stats,  it  is  obvious  that  members  of 
our  class  have  been  very  successful. 
They  have  also  been  successful  in 
marriage,  family,  and  commitment 
to  Tech.  They  also  average  3.2  chil- 
dren per  family ...  a  very  productive 
class. 

Those  that  traveled  some  dis- 
tance to  attend  the  reunion  were 
Tarek  Shawaf,  who  came  from  Riy- 
adh, Saudi  Arabia;  Bob  Schultz, 
from  Corvallis,  Oregon;  Bob 


Holden,  from  San  Diego;  Howie 
Dworkin,  from  Detroit;  and  Don 
Zwiers,  from  Joliet,  Illinois.  Tarek 
received  the  gift  for  traveling  the 
longest  distance  from  abroad  —  a 
round-trip  ticket  on  the  self- 
propelled  Gossamer  Albatross.  Bob 
Schultz  traveled  the  farthest  from 
within  the  country,  and  he  received 
a  can  of  dust  from  Mt.  St.  Helens. 
President  of  the  Class,  Brian 
Kelly,  was  unable  to  make  the 
reunion,  and  he  suggested  that  we 
elect  new  class  officers.  They  are 
Pete  Horstmann,  president;  Frank 
Horan,  vice  president;  Ray  San- 
soucy, treasurer;  and  Ralph  Mon- 
geon, secretary. 

In  summary,  when  you  add  the 
familiar  names  of  Roger  Bardwell, 


Larry  Dennis,  Larry  Henschel,  Ray 
Lemieux,  Jim  Mathews,  Walt 
Power,  George  Robbins,  Gerrit 
Swart,  Al  Twitchell,  John  Welsh, 
Dick  Butterworth,  Dave  Dayton, 
John  Edfors,  and  Bob  Sechrest  and 
their  wives  and  guests  to  the  list, 
then  combine  Tech  stories, 
exchanges  about  family  and  friends, 
discussions  of  professional,  world, 
and  business  situations,  and  factor 
in  good  fellowship,  it  all  equates  to 
an  outstanding  and  memorable 
reunion. 

It  was  a  great  twenty-fifth, 
thanks  to  the  Committee,  the 
Alumni  staff,  and  above  all  those 
who  came.  We  will  be  seeing  you  all 
soon. 


- 


left:  Peter  Horstmann,  '55. 
below:  The  Class  of  1 950  showed  a  re- 
markable turnout  for  their  30th  re- 
union. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1980/19 


1940's  40th 


After  months  of  planning  by  the 
Class  of  1940  Reunion  Committee 
and  three  years  by  the  Gift  Com- 
mittee, the  Friday  morning  of 
Reunion  finally  arrived.  48  class- 
mates plus  their  wives  took  part  in 
our  best  reunion  ever.  Everything 
could  be  described  with  superla- 
tives, starting  at  the  moment  we 
signed  the  registration  cards  in 
Morgan  Hall  with  the  pleasant, 
helpful  hostesses  assisting  our 
obtaining  1940  caps  and  1940  tote 
bags,  answering  all  our  questions, 
and  pointing  the  way  to  our 
Ellsworth  Residence  rooms  and  our 
own  1940  Hospitality  Suite  nearby 
Hospitality  was  ably  captained  by 
John  and  Laurel  Peters,  assisted  by 
Ken  and  Judy  Blaisdell. 

That  afternoon  some  enjoyed 
golf  and  tennis  with  classmates  and 
wives  at  the  Worcester  Country 
Club,  while  others  attended 
campus  talks  and  tours,  while  at 
the  same  time  catching  up  on  old 
time-topics  and  friendships. 

The  evening  program,  entirely 
as  guests  of  the  Institute,  started 
with  a  truly  cordial  reception  at 
President  and  Mrs.  Cranch's  home 
at  One  Drury  Lane.  Those  bacon- 


wrapped  shrimp  tidbits  were  very 
tasty  and  so  nicely  served  along 
with  other  morsels  and  cocktails. 
We  then  crossed  over  Park  Avenue 
to  the  Higgins  House  and  a  very 
brief,  informal,  and  breathless  tour 
of  the  mansion  and  grounds.  It  was 
followed  by  an  elegant  roast  beef 
dinner.  We  are  noting  now  that, 
next  time  back,  we  would  like  to 
spend  more  time  studying  the 
house  and  grounds.  We  also  wish  to 
point  out  that  this  was  the  first 
time  we  have  enjoyed  strawberry 
shortcake  a  la  two-long-stemmed- 
roses  for  dessert!  Place  setting 
favors,  thanks  to  Clark  Goodchild, 
were  1940  nickels  sealed  in  a  plastic 
coated  1940  sign  card.  President 
Cranch  was  the  key  speaker,  offi- 
cially welcoming  us  for  the  week- 
end. Class  president  Ray  Forkey 
highlighted  the  coming  activities, 
and  Steve  Hebert,  '66,  alumni  direc- 
tor, was  the  master  of  ceremonies. 

We  then  adjourned  to  our 
Dorm,  our  Hospitality  Center,  and 
then  to  the  Goats  Head  Pub  in  San- 
ford  Riley  for  a  very  excellent  eve- 
ning of  dancing  and  listening  to 
old-time  numbers  by  a  Banjo  Band. 
Many  1940  classmates  participated 
here! 

Saturday  came  with  heavy  rain. 
Breakfast  in  Morgan  was  abundant 


and  delicious,  and  we  have  to  point 
out  the  outstanding  difference  in 
food  service  the  entire  weekend  — 
the  difference  being  our  memories 
of  being  served  as  students  as  com- 
pared with  our  now  being  guests, 
with  food  and  service  to  match  the 
occasion.  We  split  up  the  the  Art 
Museum  tour,  the  WPI  Today  panel 
discussion,  the  nuclear  power  topic, 
and  shopping  in  the  bookstore.  Oh! 
we  wish  the  store  had  been  open 
earlier,  because  there  were  too 
many  conflicting  demands  on  our 
time.  The  lecture  by  Professor  Les- 
lie Wilbur  —  nuclear  power:  where 
are  we  headedl  —  was  outstanding, 
very  broad  in  scope,  and  we  hope  it 
will  be  printed  for  all  to  study  and 
discuss  back  home.  Others  were 
excited  by  the  WPI  Today  panel. 

Then  came  the  alumni  lunch- 
eon, indoors  at  Morgan  due  to  the 
rain.  Again  a  good  meal,  but  the 
excitement  of  our  class  participa- 
tion dimmed  the  excellence  of  the 
food.  Our  class  president  Ray 
Forkey  received  one  of  the  prized 
Goddard  awards  for  outstanding 
professional  achievement.  Good 
work,  Ray!  Our  own  Howie 
Freeman,  as  a  member  of  the  Board 
of  Trustees,  made  presentations  of 
other  awards.  And  then  our  Merrill 
Skeist  raised  the  roof  when  he  pre- 


20  /  Summer  1980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


sented  the  Institute  with  our  class 
gift,  more  than  double  any  prior 
40th  reunion  class  gift  at 
$160,247.66  plus  corporate  match- 
ing gifts  of  $12,919.75,  Dana  qual- 
ifying payments  of  $37,669.28,  plus 
two  separate  special  additional  gifts 
from  class  members  totaling 
$362,500.00,  for  a  grand  total  of 
$573,336.69.  Haifa  million  dollars! 
The  $160,247.66  official  class  gift 
has  been  voted  by  the  class  to  go  for 
scholarship  aid.  Wow!  That  was 
some  reunion  luncheon! 

That  afternoon  we  relaxed  a 
bit,  some  took  the  campus  tour, 
others  visited  their  fraternity,  and 
still  others  enjoyed  the  class  Hospi- 
tality Center.  We  all  congregated  at 
the  Sheraton  Lincoln  Inn  for  class 
picture-taking,  cocktails,  dinner, 
band  music,  and  dancing  between 
courses  —  just  a  beautiful  evening. 

Ed  Hafey,  although  running  for 
King  of  USA,  proved  to  be  king  of 
amusement  and  pun.  Ray  For  key 
got  in  a  business  session  to 
announce  the  tracking  down  of  an 
old  class  bank  account  of  $399.00. 
Fritz  lohanson  gave  the  1940  class 
historical  overview,  reserved  a  min- 
ute of  silence  for  our  17  deceased 
members,  announced  the  results  of 
the  questionnaire  now  published  in 
the  new  biographical  yearbook.  Ray 
then  introduced  our  guests:  Tom 
Denney,  WPI  vice  president,  who 
reported  on  the  high  qualifications 
of  the  entering  freshmen;  and  Prof. 
Emeritus  Al  Schwieger  and  Prof. 
Don  Zwiep,  head  of  the  mechanical 
engineering  department  and 
national  president  of  A.S.M.E., 
both  of  whom  spoke  of  their  world- 
wide travels.  Clark  Goodchild 
announced  that  the  two  door  prizes, 
very  nice  gift  sharpening  sets,  were 
won  by  Jack  Leach  and  Howie 
Freeman.  Clark  also  took  small 
group  pictures  at  each  table  during 
the  evening.  Yearbooks  were  passed 
out  to  all,  which  resulted  in  many  a 
light  in  the  dorm  being  turned  out 
late,  while  we  digested  those  73 
reported  careers.  Music  and  dancing 
was  enjoyed  by  all. 

Sunday  morning  Break-Up- 
Brunch  at  Morgan  was  another 
super  meal,  along  with  the  sincere 


good-byes  and  vows  to  "see  you  in 
five  at  our  45th."  Special  thanks  go 
to  Clark  Goodchild  for  design  and 
procurement  of  Class  Caps  and 
Bags;  to  Clark  and  Fritz  Johanson 
for  editing  the  Yearbook;  to  Merrill 
Skeist  for  carrying  the  ball  on  the 
Class  Gift;  to  President  Ray  Forkey 
for  calling  the  signals;  and  to  all  the 
members  of  the  committees  who 
put  in  many  hours  of  work  to  make 
it  all  come  to  pass.  Citations  for 
long  distance  traveling  for  the  occa- 
sion should  go  to  D.  Bates,  R.  Bates, 
M.  Ross,  L.  Behrent,  E.  Hafey,  and 
W.  Brooks. 

The  complete  list  of  those 
attending  follows. 

—  Bob  Dunklee,  Secretary 


Mr.  &  Mrs.  Howard  L.  Anderson 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  Donald  R.  Bates 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  Ralston  E.  Bates 
Mr.  Lewis  F.  Behrent 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  Max  Bialer 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  George  S.  Bingham 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  Kenneth  R.  Blaisdell 
Dr.  &  Mrs.  Roland  S.  Brand 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  William  S.  Brooks 
Prof.  &  Mrs.  Malcolm  S.  Burton 
Dr.  S.  Carlton  Dickerman 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  Robert  E.  Dunklee,  Jr. 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  Raymond  J.  Forkey 


Mr.  &  Mrs.  Howard  G.  Freeman 

Mr.  Clyde  L.  Gerald 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Richard  Flencross 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Leonard  Goldsmith 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  W.  Clark  Goodchild,  Jr. 

Mr.  Willard  T.  Gove 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Frank  G.  Gustafson 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Edward  E.  J.  Hafey 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Joseph  M.  Halloran,  Jr. 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Franklin  D.  Hayes 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Robert  W.  Hewey 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Fritz  E.  Johanson 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Rolfe  G.  Johnson 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Stanley  W.  Kimball 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  David  A.  Kuniholm 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  A.  Leach,  Jr. 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Russell  A.  Lovell,  Jr. 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Zareh  Martin 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Charles  C.  McDonald 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Richard  T.  Messinger 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Peter  A.  Muto 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  H.  Peters  m 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Donald  Ramaker 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Marcus  A.  Rhodes,  Jr. 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Milton  E.  Ross 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  M.  Michael  Sadick 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  S.  Merrill  Skeist 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Everett  P.  Smith 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Francis  E.  Stone 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Lawrence  R.  Sullivan 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Harry  Terkanian 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Frederic  S.  Wackerbarth 

Mr.  Randall  Whitehead 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Thomas  S.  Wingardner 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  David  B.  Zipser 


Merrill  Skeist  presents  President  Cran- 
ch  with  the  40th  anniversary  gift  of  the 
Class  of  1940  —  more  than  half  a  mil- 
lion dollars  in  all. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1980  /  21 


1930's  50th 


Actually,  the  50TH  Reunion  for 
the  Class  of  1930  started  on  Tues- 
day, June  3rd,  with  the  arrival  of  Ed 
Delano  on  the  completion  of  his 
3, 100  mile  bicycle  ride  from  Davis, 
California  to  WPI.  As  he  crossed  the 
finish  line  about  noon  at  Boynton 
Hall,  he  was  greeted  by  President  Ed 
Cranch  and  a  crowd  of  300  faculty 
members,  students,  office  workers 
and  friends. 

Fran  Kennedy  and  I  met  him  at 
the  Yankee  Drummer  Inn  on  the 
Auburn-Worcester  line,  whence  we 
followed  him  the  last  seven  miles 
by  car.  This  section  of  his  ride  was 
also  filmed  by  the  WPI  television 
crew.  He  received  the  key  to  the 
city,  a  plaque  from  Jack  McCabe, 
President  of  the  Alumni  Associa- 
tion, and  I  presented  him  a  pair  of 
roller  skates  from  the  Class  of  '30, 
suggesting  he  may  want  to  try  these 
for  his  60th.  Any  way  you  look  at  it 
—  it  was  a  remarkable  feat. 

On  Thursday  afternoon,  June 
5th,  we  started  to  assemble  at  the 
Sheraton-Lincoln  Inn,  and  at  5:45 
p.m.  most  of  us  boarded  a  bus  that 
took  us  to  the  President's  house  for 


a  welcoming  reception.  At  seven, 
we  moved  over  to  the  Higgins 
House  for  a  delicious  roast  beef  din- 
ner. 

At  the  dinner,  President  Cranch 
spoke  about  the  school,  and  then 
presented  50-year  diplomas  to  those 
present,  followed  by  the  premiere  of 
the  15-minute  tv  presentation  of  Ed 
Delano's  ride  of  the  last  few  miles, 
with  the  finish  up  the  hill  to  Boy- 
nton Hall,  and  the  various  short 
speeches  of  welcome  and  congratu- 
lations. 

Friday  a.m.,  Steve  Hebert, 
Alumni  Secretary,  escorted  our 
class  on  a  1  Vi  hour  walking  tour  of 
the  campus,  pointing  out  the  many 
new  buildings  and  changes  of  the 
past  twenty  years.  This  was  fol- 
lowed by  a  very  nice  buffet  lunch  in 
Morgan  Hall. 

During  the  afternoon,  many  of 
us  attended  seminars  on  the  WPI 
Plan,  and  another  on  Estate  Plan- 
ning. The  bus  took  those  staying  at 
the  hotel  back,  so  they  could  get 
ready  for  our  50th  banquet  which 
was  held  on  the  24th  floor  —  the 
Plaza  Club  —  in  the  Worcester 
County  National  Bank  building,  op- 
posite Worcester  City  Hall.  The 
class  picture  was  taken  during  our 


social  hour,  but  with  all  the  mir- 
rors, windows,  space,  who  knows  if 
it  will  come  out? 

Following  a  very  fancy  dinner, 
Gardner  Pierce,  head  of  WPI's  plant 
facilities,  gave  us  a  slide  show  of 
WPI  old  and  new.  Dan  O' Grady,  the 
Master  of  Ceremonies,  read  several 
letters  from  people  in  the  class  who 
could  not  attend  for  one  reason  or 
another.  I  announced  that  we  had 
100  living  members  out  of  a  gradu- 
ating class  of  141;  76  members  had 
contributed  to  our  Fund; 
$15,000.00  had  been  raised  during 
1970-77;  and,  $39,677.55  was  raised 
in  the  last  three  years.  We  also  had 
matching  gifts  to  the  College  of 
$3,061.25  and  $9,684.00  in  Dana 
matching  funds.  So  our  total  effort 
was  $67,422.80.  (Actually,  a  late 
gift  of  $1,224.38  has  arrived,  so  our 
total  is  now  $68,647. 18.) 

The  class  voted  that  the  Col- 
lege use  our  50th  Reunion  Gift  for 
the  new  student  lounge  area  in  the 
renovated  Atwater  Kent  building.  A 
suitable  plaque  will  be  put  in  the 
room  informing  all  that  this  room 
was  given  by  our  class. 

Gene  Center,  Class  President 
for  the  last  five  years,  thanked  the 
various  committees  for  work  done 


'JT 


1 


A 


-.  -M 


r 


m 


& 


Kv; 


r 


f 


«=* , 


^ 


\<si 


1 


/ 


m 


on  arranging  everything  for  the  re- 
union. Pete  Topelian  gave  a  short 
talk  on  working  (for  money)  after 
age  72. 

Charlie  Fay  Chairman  of  the 
Nominating  Committee,  presented 
the  following  slate  for  the  next  five 
years:  President:  Dan  O'Grady; 
Vice  President:  Fran  Kennedy;  Sec- 
retary/Treasurer: CarlBackstrom. 
Nobody  objected,  so  we  were  voted 
in.  Once  again,  the  bus  was  there  to 
take  the  hotel  people  back,  and  our 
class  really  enjoyed  this  means  of 
travel. 

Saturday  morning  at  10:00 
a.m.,  we  were  voted  into  the  50- 
Year  Associates  group,  and  we  lis- 
tened to  a  very  interesting  talk  on 
energy  by  Prof.  Leslie  Wilbur. 

Due  to  the  rainy  weather  on 
Saturday  our  reunion  luncheon  had 
to  be  moved  inside  to  Morgan  Hall, 
rather  than  the  Higgins  lawn.  After 
lunch,  the  Goddard,  Taylor,  and 
WPI  awards  were  presented  to  six 
people. 

Due  to  the  fact  we  had  42  per- 
cent of  our  living  members  there, 
we  beat  out  the  class  of  1940,  so  we 
will  have  "Class  of  1930"  inscribed 
on  the  large  silver  attendance  cup 
donated  by  the  class  of  1917.  The 
best  percentage  of  returning  alumni 
from  a  class  wins  this  honor,  and  al- 
so a  bottle  of  champagne. 

After  the  reunion  luncheon, 
about  35  of  our  group  of  75  went  to 
Charlie  Fay's  home  in  Sterling, 
where  we  celebrated  with  the 
champagne.  We  finished  with  ham- 


burgers, hot  dogs,  cookies,  and  cof- 
fee, which  put  everybody  in  a  good 
frame  of  mind  for  their  trip  home, 
saying,  "See  you  in  five  years." 
Thanks  Charlie  and  Ingrid  for  open- 
ing up  your  house  to  us! 

The  following  people  were  at 
the  reunion: 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Carl  W.  Backstrom,  Mr.  & 
Mrs.  Roscoe  H.  Bowers,  Mr.  David  K. 
Bragg,  Mr.  &  Mrs.  C.  Eugene  Center, 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  Joseph  H.  Coghill,  Mr.  & 
Mrs.  Charles  H.  Cole,  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Wil- 
liam D.  Davidson,  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Herbert 
W.  Davis,  Mr.  Edward  R.  Delano,  Mr.  & 
Mrs.  Charles  R.  Fay,  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Stanley 
H.  Fillion,  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Leland  H.  Fisler, 
Mr.  Thomas  F.  Flynn,  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Wal- 
ter H.  French,  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Albert  M. 
Goodnow,  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Carmelo  S.  Gre- 
co, Mr.  &  Mrs.  Allan  L.  Hall,  Mr.  Robert 


Steve  Hebert,  '66,  presents  Gene  Cen- 
ter, '30,  with  the  champagne  and  the 
Class  of  1917  Attendance  Cup.  As  usu- 
al, the  50th  anniversary  class  outdid  ev- 
eryone else! 


E.  Hollick,  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Irving  Joseph, 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  Francis  E.  Kennedy,  Mr.  & 
Mrs.  Raymond  C.  Lewis,  Prof.  &  Mrs. 
William  W.  Locke,  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Percy  F. 
Marsaw,  Mr.  &  Mrs.  George  A.  Mar- 
ston,  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Edward  C.  Milde,  Mr. 
&  Mrs.  William  J.  Newbold,  Mr.  Daniel 

F.  O'Grady,  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Christos 
Orphanides,  Mr.  John  R.  Parker,  Mr. 
Henry  A.  Pearson,  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Fred  P. 
Peters,  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Paul  E.  Reynolds, 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  Wilson  H.  Rice,  Dr.  &  Mrs. 
Philip  M.  Seal,  Mr.  &  Mrs.  George  W. 
Stratton,  Dr.  &  Mrs.  Joseph  T.  Tawter, 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  Alvin  E.  Thrower,  Mr.  Paul 
J.  Topelian,  Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  H.  Wells, 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  Harold  G.  Williamson,  Mr. 
Charles  L.  Wright,  and  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Ar- 
thur Zavarella. 

It  was  a  great  Reunion! 

—  Carl  W  Backstrom 


middle:  Members  of  the  50-year  associ- 
ates relaxing  at  the  Worcester  Country 
Club. 


Msm 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1980  /  23 


1904 


Loyalty  to  WPI  often  transcends  a  genera- 
tion. Such  was  the  case  with  the  daughter 
of  Edward  C.  Perry  who  shared  his  pride  of 
this  alma  mater  with  his  family  as  she  grew 
up.  Had  Miriam  been  a  boy,  she  might  well 
have  followed  her  father  to  WPI.  Instead, 
she  graduated  from  Simmons  college  and 
entered  military  service  in  World  War  II. 
She  became  the  first  Chief  of  the  U.S.  Air 
Force's  Woman  Medical  Specialists  Corps 
and  later  retired  with  the  rank  of  colonel,  by 
then  the  wife  of  Lt.  Col.  Moxie  Goll,  U.S. 
Army,  now  retired.  Miraim  Perry  Goll  died 
in  January,  1979,  but  in  her  will  she  left  a 
substantial  bequest  to  WPI  in  memory  of 
her  father.  Col.  Goll  recently  visited  the 
campus  for  the  first  time  to  see  the  college 
of  which  his  wife  often  spoke  fondly. 


I9II 


An  early  thesis  on  wind  power,  "The  Con- 
struction and  Test  of  a  Windmill  Electric 
Lighting  Plant,"  by  the  late  Ralph  Goddard 
has  been  acquired  by  the  Rio  Grande  His- 
torical Collections  in  the  New  Mexico  State 
University  (NMSU)  archives.  Goddard 
wrote  the  thesis  while  an  undergraduate  at 
WPI.  He  was  dean  of  the  NMSU  engineer- 
ing college  from  1 92 1  to  1 929,  until  his 
accidental  death  in  the  campus  radio  sta- 
tion. The  current  NMSU  engineering  dean 
says  that  the  thesis  "was  an  excellent  piece 
of  work  for  that  time." 


1912 


Ruth  Taylor,  widow  of  Herbert  Taylor,  was 
named  the  1979  Red  Cross  Volunteer  of 
the  Year  for  Worcester  County. 


1913 


William  Stults  writes:  "I  still  drive  my 
14-year-old  car,  and  will  probably  spend 
the  summer  in  North  Carolina." 


1914 


Secretary: 

Ellwood  N  Hennessy 

680  Mechanics  Bank  Tower 

Worcester,  MA 

01608 


The  following  information  was  sent  to  me 
by  the  vice  president  of  our  class,  Earl 
Hughes.  While  it  is  true  that  his  fraternity 
has  been  informed  of  this  information, 
certainly  the  rest  of  our  class  have  not,  and  I 
am  submitting  it  exactly  as  it  was  sent  to 
me. 

Earl  C.  Hughes,  '14,  98  Lighthouse 
Drive,  Jupiter  Inlet  Colony,  Florida  33458. 
Earl  received  a  WPI  honorary  Doctor  of 
Engineering  Award  on  June  7,  1963,  and 
the  WPI  Herbert  F.Taylor  Award  on  June  7, 
1975.  He  is  currently  retired  and  is  still 
married  to  Mary  B.  Hughes  (54  years).  Earl 
has  one  daughter,  Mrs.  Philip  A.  Peterson, 
who  lives  at  350  Salisbury  St.,  Worcester, 
two  sons  living  in  California,  and  a  total  of 
nine  grandchildren  and  two  great  grand- 
children. Earl  has  enjoyed  visits  in  Florida 
from  President  and  Mrs.  Cranch;  Vice  Pres- 
ident and  Mrs.  Bolz,  who  live  in  Hughes 
House  which  he  gave  to  WPI;  and  also 
from  his  very  good  friend,  Tom  Denney. 
Earl  writes  that  he  will  be  88  in  September 
and  is  beginning  to  feel  it. 

Earl  has  done  a  lot  for  our  class  and  for 
Worcester  Tech.  As  most  people  know,  he 
gave  his  own  home  to  the  College.  One 
other  thing  that  is  not  generally  known  is 
that  Earl  lives  in  Florida  next  to  the  home  of 
Perry  Como.  Whether  Earl  gets  free  beauti- 
ful music  at  home,  such  as  Perry  Como 
gives  on  television,  I  do  not  know. 

I  had  another  interesting  letter  from 
Mike  Dufault,  our  president,  and  I  also 
spent  some  more  money  on  the  telephone 
talking  to  him  personally  as  before.  Neither 
Mike  or  Chris,  his  wife,  is  presently  very 
well,  but  they  get  around  and  occasionally 
go  out  to  lunch  at  the  Pillar  House,  which  is 
my  favorite  eating  place  in  New  England. 

I  also  hear  from  Eddy  Bartlett,  who  still 
lives  contentedly  alone  in  Tryon,  North 
Carolina.  Last  year  he  said  he  was  very  busy 
raking  up  an  extra  crop  of  leaves. 

Tilly  and  Al  Crandon  and  my  wife, 
Dorothy,  and  I  keep  in  touch  every  so  often 
with  each  other  by  telephone.  They  are 
very  busy  living  a  social  and  farming  life  in 
their  lovely  home  in  Compton,  Rhode 
Island. 


1915 


The  Frederick  Churches  will  be  celebrating 
their  fiftieth  wedding  anniversary  in 
October. 


1917 


Married:  Brigadier  General  Hermon  F.  Saf- 

ford  and  Mrs.  Annemarie  Logsdon  on 
March  15,  1980,  in  LaJolla,  California. 


1921 


Secretary 

Robert  E  Chapman 
26  High  St 
Oakdale,  MA 
01539 


REUNION 

TUNE  I  98  I 

Representative 
Robert  E  Chapman 


The  Edward  Roses  celebrated  their  58th 
wedding  anniversary  in  February. 


1925 

Secretary 
Daniel  L.  Hussey 
81  Whitney  Rd 
Short  Hills,  NJ 
07078 

John  Fitzmaurice  of  Wellesley,  Mass.,  a 
retired  assistant  traffic  engineer  from  the 
Massachusetts  Department  of  Public 
Works,  is  currently  a  self-employed  traffic 
engineering  consultant.  .  .  .  Leonard  San- 
born writes  that  he  is  retired,  healthy,  and 
has  completed  three  two-year  terms  in  the 
New  Hampshire  legislature. 


1926 


Secretary 
Archie  J.  Home 
1  Hunter  Circle 
Shrewsbury,  MA 
01545 


REUNION 

JUNE  I  98 1 


Archie  Home  spoke  on  the  topic,  "Grow- 
ing Up  to  Be  A  Man"  at  the  annual  district 
Men's  Communion  Breakfast  held  at  the 
First  Church  in  Sterling,  Mass.,  on  March 
23rd.  He  is  well  known  for  his  talks  about 
land  development,  management,  counsel- 
ing and  consulting.  A  member  of  the  Amer- 
ican Institute  of  Real  Estate  Appraisers,  he 
also  belongs  to  the  Society  of  Real  Estate 
Appraisers  and  the  American  Right  of  Way 
Association. 

Armand  Paquette  writes,  "We  are  cele- 
brating our  golden  wedding  anniversary  on 
June  2,  1980." 


24  /  Summer  1980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


1927 

Secretary: 
William  M.  Rauha 
4  Whittletree  Rd. 
West  Yarmouth,  MA 
02673 

The  Nathan  Southwicks  celebrated  their 
50th  wedding  anniversary  on  October  5, 
1979. 


1928 


Secretaries: 
Gifford  T.  Cook 
Rte.3  Box  294 
Keyes  Perry  Acres 
Harpers  Ferry,  WV 
25425 


Theodore  J.  Englund 
70  Eastwood  Rd. 
Shrewsbury,  MA 
01545 


Since  the  Paul  Henleys  moved  to  Spain 
eight  years  ago,  they've  done  a  lot  of 
traveling.  They  have  journeyed  to  Belgium, 
Italy,  France,  Luxembourg,  Germany,  Por- 
tugal, Morocco,  the  Canary  Islands, 
Madeira,  the  Balearic  Islands,  Monaco,  and 
"many  of  the  wonderful  places  in  Spain." 
Memorable  trips  include  a  cruise  from 
Alicante  to  Genoa  to  Tunis  on  a  Dutch  ship; 
a  canal  barge  trip  to  Carcassonne;  a  visit  to 
the  caves  of  Altemira  (before  they  were 
closed);  and  trips  to  the  Alhambra,  Sevilla, 
and  Cordoba.  Other  points  of  interest  have 
been  the  Costa  del  Sol  ("similar  to  Miami 
Beach")  and  Barcelona.  "Madrid  you  can 
have.  The  weather  is  like  Cleveland,  Ohio." 

The  town  where  the  Henleys  live  is  on 
the  Costa  Blanca,  off  the  beaten  tourist 
path.  "An  artist's  paradise.  We  have  a  villa 
halfway  up  the  mountains  against  the  sea." 
Fishing  and  farming  are  the  most  prevalent 
vocations  in  the  area. 

"As  for  the  American  bases  (here),  they 
are  more  of  an  advantage  to  the  U.S.  than 
to  Spain.  Spain  managed  to  stay  out  of 
World  War  I  and  World  War  II,  and  I 
believe  it  will  stay  out  of  the  approaching 
World  Warlll." 

Ralph  Lundberg  says  that  he's  so  busy  he 
wonders  how  he  ever  had  time  to  work.  He 
enjoys  swimming,  hiking,  biking,  golfing, 
bowling  (two  leagues),  boccia,  and  tennis. 
He  also  travels  and  belongs  to  three  men's 
clubs.  Inga  and  he  like  to  dance  and  belong 
to  a  club  where  they  dine  and  dance.  About 
every  other  year  Inga  visits  her  family  in 
Sweden.  Ralph  has  accompanied  her  on 
the  family  trips  four  times. 


1929 

Secretary:  Representative 

Holbrook  L.  Horton  Holbrook  L.  Horton 

1 20  W.  Saddle  River  Rd. 
Saddle  River,  NJ 
07458 

Wayne  Berry  and  his  wife  are  tutoring  slow 
learners  in  the  West  Side  Elementary 
School  near  Spring  Hill,  Fla.  Last  fall, 
Wayne  taught  a  course  in  fundamental 
economics  for  adult  education  at  the  local 
high  school  and  used  his  booklet,  "Progress 
and  Poverty"  as  a  textbook.  He  also 
teaches  Sunday  school  at  the  Methodist 
Church,  is  a  lay  speaker,  and  coaches  chil- 
dren's soccer. .  .  .  Arthur  Knight  has  re- 
turned from  a  week-long  exploratory 
checkup  at  Mary  Hitchcock  Hospital  in 
Hanover,  N.H.  He  resides  in  Lower  Water- 
ford,  Vt. 


1930 

Secretary:  Representative: 

Carl  W.  Backstrom  Carl  W  Backstrom 

113  Winifred  Ave. 
Worcester,  MA 
01602 

John  Burt  recently  moved  to  Melbourne, 
Fla.,  to  enjoy  retirement.  .  .  .  Joseph 
Coghill  was  robbed  at  gunpoint  at  the 
Centerville  Variety  Store  in  Warwick,  R.I., 
in  June,  but  not  before  he  tried  to  disarm 
the  gunman  with  his  bare  hands.  When 
first  confronted  by  the  robber,  Joe  grabbed 
the  barrel  of  the  gun,  before  it  was  finally 
pulled  out  of  his  grasp.  The  gunman  de- 
manded money  from  the  cash  register.  Joe 
offered  the  man  two  tens,  but  he  didn't 
leave  until  he  got  about  $45. .  .  .  Sherman 
Dane  is  still  working  in  Boston  at  Welch  and 
Forbes  (Fiduciaries  and  Trustees)  and 
commuting  each  day  from  his  home  in 
Marshfield,  Mass.  The  Danes  have  three 
children:  Bob,  27;  Chris,  21;  and  Nancy, 
19,  a  junior  at  Plymouth  (N.H.)  State  Col- 
lege. "I  expect  to  work  full  time  until  Nancy 
graduates,"  Sherm  writes.  "After  that,  I 
hope  to  slow  down  a  bit  and  semi-retire." 

Herb  Davis  says  that  he,  like  Jim 
McLoughlin,  collects  sand  samples.  Cur- 
rently, he  has  a  collection  of  about  100 
samples  from  around  the  world.  In  the 
1950's  he  helped  design  and  test  a  beach 
cleaner,  and  during  the  testing  he  dis- 
covered that  adjustments  had  to  be  made 
to  allow  for  the  large  variations  in  sand 
from  beach  to  beach.  The  project  got  him 
interested  in  sand  collecting.  Among  his 
samples  are  those  from  the  USA,  Tahiti, 
Bora  Bora,  England,  Wales,  and  Scotland. 

Armando  "Ed"  Greco  retired  in  June 
1979.  He  left  May  9th  for  a  two-month  trip 
to  Western  Europe.  This  was  planned  a 
year  ago,  so  he  was  unable  to  attend  the 
50th..  .  Jim  McLoughlin  was  sorry  to  miss 
the  50th,  but  he  had  just  gotten  back  from 


the  hospital  recovering  from  an  attack  of 
angina.  It  was  one  of  the  few  reunions  he 
wasn't  able  to  attend. .  .  .  Ted  Mesh  enjoys 
his  big  vegetable  garden  and  his  camellias, 
roses,  azaleas,  magnolias,  and  gardenias  in 
Greensboro,  N.C.  Louise  and  he  live  quietly 
and  do  no  entertaining.  Ted  does  some 
volunteer  interviewing  for  the  Greensboro 
Urban  Ministry  and  is  involved  with  church 
projects.  His  daughter  and  family  live  next 
door  and  his  son  and  family  live  in  In- 
dianapolis. .  .  .  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Fred  Peters  of 
Springfield,  N.J.,  were  named  the  recipients 
of  the  Archbishop's  Award  during  the  an- 
nual fund-raising  gala  held  to  benefit 
Catholic  Community  Services  in  the  Ar- 
chdiocese of  Newark,  on  April  27th.  They 
are  members  of  St.  Rose  of  Lima  Church  in 
Short  Hills,  where  Fred  serves  as  a  parish 
trustee.  Peters,  who  is  the  former  executive 
vice  president  of  Reinhold  Publishers  in 
New  York,  is  a  past  president  of  the  Heart 
Institute  at  St.  Michael's  Hospital  in 
Newark.  He  also  serves  on  the  advisory 
council  of  the  Seton  Hall  University  School 
of  Business  and  on  the  editorial  board  of 
The  Advocate,  the  archdiocesan  newspa- 
per. Mrs.  Peters,  a  past  officer  of  the  ladies 
auxiliary  at  St.  Rose  of  Lima,  is  a  volunteer 
worker  at  St.  Ann's  Villa  in  Convent  Sta- 
tion, a  home  for  retired  nuns,  and  at  a 
nursing  home  in  Totowa  operated  by  the 
Little  Sisters  of  the  Poor. ...  Phil  Seal  has 
started  a  three- year  term  as  a  town  asses- 
sor in  Gouldsboro,  Me.  (Prospect  Harbor, 
his  home,  is  part  of  Gouldsboro.)  He  has 
been  busy  for  several  months  getting  all  the 
information  together  for  sending  out  the 
bills.  Phil  says  that  Ken  Gleason,  '33,  has  a 
summer  home  in  his  area. .  .  .  Vern  Wade's 
grandchildren  graduated  in  June,  so  gradu- 
ations kept  him  from  the  50th  reunion.  He 
sends  regards  to  all  his  classmates. 


1932 


Representative: 
Howard  P.  Lekberg 
RFD  115  Main  St. 
East  Douglas,  MA 
01516 


Paul  Nelson  was  named  a  co-recipient  of 
the  1979  Outstanding  Conservation 
Farmer  Award  at  the  Caledonia  Extension 
Advisory  Board  and  Conservation  District 
meeting  held  in  Danville,  Vt.,  in  May.  He 
and  Raymond  and  Donna  Nelson  have 
operated  Hillside  Acres  Farm  in  Barnet  fol- 
lowing conservation  management  prac- 
tices in  the  use  of  their  woodland.  They 
produced  maple  syrup  from  1 300  maple 
taps.  Paul  served  as  town  selectman  for  a 
number  of  years. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1980  /  25 


1934 


Secretary: 

Representative 

Dwight  J   Dwinell 

Edward  R.  Markert 

Box  265 

1  Elf  Hill 

Brownington,  VT 

South  Amherst,  MA 

05860 

01002 

Harold  Greeney  has  retired  from  Sandy  Hill 
Corp.,  Hudson  Falls,  N.Y.,  where  he  was  a 
sales  engineer. 


1935 


Secretary 

Raymond  F.  Starrett 

Continental  Country  Club 

Box  104 

Wildwood,  FL 

32785 


Representative: 
Plummer  Wiley 
2906  Silver  Hill  Ave. 
Baltimore,  MD 
21207 


Walter  Blau,  who  retired  over  a  year  ago, 
writes,  "Can't  find  the  time  to  do  all  the 
things  I  planned  for  retirement.  Enjoying 
every  minute."  He  had  been  with  Wallace 
Silversmiths  in  Wallingford,  Conn.,  where 
he  was  plant  engineering  manager. .  .  .  B. 
Austin  Coates  says  that  he  has  gone  blind, 
but  with  extensive  surgery  and  laser  treat- 
ment his  eyesight  is  coming  back  slowly. 
.  .  .  Phillip  Dean  still  enjoys  skiing  several 
times  a  week  in  the  winter.  In  summer,  he 
sails  on  Long  Island  Sound  or  works  in  his 
vegetable  garden.  .  .  .  Sam  Hakam's  son 
just  graduated  from  Long  Beach  Univer- 
sity. 


1937 


Secretary: 

Representative 

Richard  J.  Lyman 

Gordon  F.  Crowther 

10  Hillcrest  Rd. 

20  Bates  St. 

Medfield,  MA 

Hartford,  CT 

02052 

06114 

Correspondent: 

Samuel  W.  Mencow 

189  Parker  Ave. 

H  olden,  MA 

01520 

In  June,  Allen  Benjamin  retired  from  teach- 
ing urban  and  environmental  planning  at 
WPI,  although  he  still  may  be  involved  with 
an  occasional  course.  He  expects  to  do 
some  consulting  and  writing.  His  wife, 
Eleanor,  works  at  Wayland  Public  Library, 
but  they  will  take  a  short  trip  during  her 
vacation.  Meanwhile,  they  are  establishing 
a  "farm"  in  Wayland.  They  grow  blueber- 
ries, strawberries,  raspberries,  peaches,  and 
pears.  During  his  career,  Benjamin  was  an 
urban  planner  in  Costa  Rica,  Nicaragua,  El 
Salvador,  and  various  U.S.  cities  and  towns, 
as  well  as  a  planning  engineer  for  the 
Massachusetts  State  Planning  Board. 
Civic-minded,  one  of  his  awards  was  the 
Distinguished  Service  Award  of  the  New 
England  Chapter  of  the  American  Institute 
of  Planners. 


26  /  Summer  1980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


IS  FOR  ^a    w 


ers 


Continuing  as  a  professor  in  applied 
physics  at  Stanford  University,  C.  Chapin 
Cutler  says,  "We  are  loving  our  new  life  in 
California,  but  it  is  not  really  relaxing." 
Recently,  he  bicycled  68  miles  on  the  Coast 
Highway.  He  is  active  with  the  IEEE  (Fel- 
low), the  church,  and  the  Boy  Scouts.  Ear- 
lier, he  had  been  with  Bell  Labs  in  New 
Jersey  for  41  years,  and  retired  as  director 
of  the  Electronic  and  Computer  Systems 
Research  Laboratory.  He  was  involved  with 
"Echo,"  "Telstar,"  and  the  Picturephone 
computer  applications,  and  was  awarded 
over  70  patents.  A  member  of  the  National 
Academy  of  Engineering,  he  also  belongs 
to  the  National  Academy  of  Sciences, 
AAAS,  and  Sigma  Xi.  WPI  awarded  him  an 
honorary  doctorate. 

Wesley  Holbrook  retired  in  February  as 
safety  engineer  in  the  technical  support 
section  of  the  Boston  regional  office  of  the 
U.S.  Department  of  Labor,  Occupational 
Safety  and  Health  Administration  (OSHA). 
Recently,  he  and  Betty  got  together  with 
Dot  and  Bob  Powers  on  their  way  back 
from  Florida.  Last  year,  Holbrook  taught  a 
course  in  industrial  safety  one  night  a  week 
at  Northeastern,  and  expects  to  teach 
again  this  year.  "The  students  are  all  from 
industry  —  and  striving  to  obtain  a  degree 
the  hard  way  by  going  to  school  nights,"  he 
explains.  He  hopes  to  do  some  consulting 
on  fire  protection  and  safety  engineering. 
During  his  career,  he  had  advised  industrial 
firms  and  building  contractors  on  fire  pro- 
tection and  safety  standards  and  require- 
ments. ...  A.  Hallier  Johnson  is  still  retired, 
and  shooting,  hunting,  and  boating.  He 
lives  in  Chesapeake  City,  Md.,  on  the  Elk 
River. 

David  La  Field  serves  as  president  of 
Shipyard  Crafts  in  San  Lorenzo,  Calif.  .  .  . 
The  Dick  Lymans  are  visiting  China  this 
summer.  Dick  says,  "Have  always  wanted 
to  know  whether  you  drink  or  chew  bird's 
nest  soup!"  In  a  year  he  expects  to  retire, 
but  presently  is  vice  president  and  director 
of  personnel  at  New  England  Electric.  .  .  . 
Billings  Mann  of  George  Mann  &  Co.,  Inc., 
Providence,  R.I.,  has  retired.  He  was  presi- 
dent and  director  of  the  firm. .  .  .  Francis 
Marchand  is  keeping  busy  with  the  Visiting 
Nurse  Association  and  a  social  service 
agency  in  Torrington,  Conn.  He  is  retired, 
has  five  grandchildren,  and  enjoys  sailing 
and  tennis. 


A.  Hamilton  Powell  has  returned  from  a 
6-week  volunteer  stint  in  Kenya  (near 
Nairobi)  with  the  Africa  Inland  Mission.  He 
planned  and  installed  the  electrical  system 
in  the  56'  x  90'  shop  that  the  technical 
services  branch  of  the  mission  is  construct- 
ing. From  the  new  building,  technically 
trained  personnel  will  go  out  to  build 
houses,  water  projects,  and  electrical  sys- 
tems for  the  450  missionaries  across  central 
Africa. 


1938 


Representative 
Francis  B  Swenson 
599  Common  St 
Walpole,  MA 
02081 


Paul  Murphy,  a  consultant  for  GE  in  San 
Jose,  Calif.,  is  now  retired  and  living  in 
Anacortes,  Washington.  .  . .  Henry  Ritz, 
president  of  R&R  Plumbing  Supply  Corp., 
Worcester,  was  recently  elected  president 
of  the  Association  of  the  Plumbing  and 
Heating  Wholesalers  of  New  England. He 
has  served  as  president  and  treasurer  of 
R&R  Plumbing  for  42  years.  He  holds  a 
degree  from  Northeastern  and  took  a  man- 
agement course  at  the  Harvard  School  of 
Business  Administration.  Active  in  fraternal 
and  civic  groups,  Ritz  has  also  served  as  vice 
president  and  director  of  the  New  England 
Wholesalers  Association. 


1939 


Secretary 

Representative 

Charles  H  Amidon,  Jr 

C.  John  Lindegren,  Jr 

636  Salisbury  St. 

21  Prospect  St. 

Holden,  MA 

Shrewsbury,  MA 

01520 

01545 

Roger  Iff  land  retired  May  1st.  from  the 
Torrington  Co.,  where  he  had  been  chief  of 
mechanical  engineering.  .  . .  Carl  Lewin,  a 
WPI  trustee,  has  been  appointed  manager 
of  the  Melbourne,  Australia,  office  of 
Austin-Anderson  Pty.  Ltd.,  the  Australian 
subsidiary  of  the  Austin  Company,  interna- 
tional designers  and  builders.  He  joined  the 
firm  in  1940  as  a  field  engineer  in  Austin's 
Eastern  District.  Later,  he  moved  into  sales, 
and  in  1965,  he  was  appointed  sales  man- 
ager for  Austin's  international  companies. 
In  1975,  he  was  elected  a  corporate  officer 
of  the  company,  maintaining  his  worldwide 
sales  responsibilities  as  vice  president  for 
international  sales  and  development. 

He  belongs  to  the  ASCE,  the  Cleveland 
Engineering  Society,  the  American  Man- 
agement Association,  and  Tau  Beta  Pi.  The 
Lewins  are  moving  to  Australia  from  De- 
troit, where  Lewin  has  been  responsible  for 
the  operations  of  the  Detroit  office  of  the 
Austin  Company. 


1940 


1943 


Secretary 

Representative: 

Representative: 

Robert  E  Dunklee,  Jr. 

Russell  A.  Lovell,  Jr. 

Robert  SSchedin 

RockyHillRd. 

Jonathan  Lane 

RFD#1 

North  Scituate,  R.I. 

Sandwich,  MA 

Brookfield,  MA 

02857 

02563 

01506 

Honeywell,  Inc.,  Minneapolis,  has  named 
Willard  Gove  vice  president  of  corporate 
real  estate  and  field  administration.  In  his 
new  post,  he  is  responsible  for  corporate 
real  estate  operations  and  the  administra- 
tive functions  in  Honeywell's  U.S.  branch 
sales  and  service  offices.  Since  1978,  Gove 
has  been  director  of  corporate  real  estate 
and  field  administration.  In  1951,  he  joined 
Honeywell's  Commercial  Division  as  a  sales 
representative  in  Boston,  and  two  years 
later  he  became  a  marketing  manager.  He 
has  also  been  manager  of  markets  and 
products  and  director  of  corporate  field 
administration.  ...  P.  Warren  Keating, 
chairman  of  the  board  and  treasurer  of  the 
P.  J.  Keating  Co.,  Fitchburg,  Mass.,  has 
been  elected  to  the  Burbank  Hospital  Board 
of  Trustees.  .  .  .  Zareh  Martin,  an  aircraft 
instruments  engineer  at  GE  in  Wilmington, 
Mass.,  also  teaches  evening  courses  in 
management  at  Northeastern.  He  is  a 
member  of  the  Nahant  School  Committee. 


1942 

Representative 
Norman  A.  Wilson 
17  Cranbrook  Dr 
Holden,  MA 
01520 

McGraw-Hill  is  publishing  Dr.  Frank 
Bodurtha's  book,  Industrial  Explosion  Pre- 
vention and  Protection.  The  book  is  con- 
cerned with  the  principles  and  practice  of 
explosion  control  in  the  chemical  and  allied 
fields.  Dr.  Bodurtha,  who  has  been  with  du 
Pont  for  27  years,  is  now  a  principal  consul- 
tant in  the  engineering  department.  .  .  . 
Win  Munyon  works  for  Whitman  &  Ran- 
som in  New  York  City.  ...  In  April,  Rodney 
Paige  was  named  vice  president  of  corpo- 
rate engineering  at  Pfizer,  Inc.,  New  York 
City.  He  had  been  director  of  construction 
and  plant  services.  He  joined  the  Groton 
plant  in  1951,  and  transferred  to  corporate 
engineering  in  1964  as  assistant  director  of 
engineering.  He  is  a  licensed  professional 
engineer  in  New  York  and  Connecticut. 
The  brother  of  "Hilly  **  Paige,  '41 ,  he  is  also 
a  member  of  the  Steering  Committee  for 
the  Class  of  1942's  40th  reunion  gift  pro- 
gram. ...  Dr.  Ray  Wynkoop,  formerly  di- 
rector of  the  corporate  research  depart- 
ment at  Sun  Oil  Co.,  has  retired. 


Richard  Bonnet  has  retired  from  AVTEX 
Fibers  after  32  years  of  service. .  .  .  Harry 
Merkel  holds  the  post  of  president  of  Mer- 
cury Company  of  Norwood,  Inc.,  which  is 
now  located  in  Brockton,  Mass.  The  firm  is 
a  subsidiary  of  Fischbach  and  Moore,  Inc. 
.  .  .  Frank  Szel  took  early  retirement  from 
Dow  Chemical,  and  is  presently  residing  in 
Sun  City  West,  Arizona. 


1944 


Secretary: 

Representative 

JohnG.  Underhill 

Harrison  E  Holbrook,  Jr 

6706  Barkworth  Dr 

Holbrook  Drop  Forge,  Inc 

Dallas,  TX 

40  Rockdale  St. 

75248 

Worcester,  MA 

01606 

John  Underhill  is  currently  distribution 
coordinator  for  the  western  marketing  re- 
gion of  Exxon  Company,  U.S.A.,  in  Dallas, 
Texas. 


1945 

Representative: 
Robert  E.  Scott 
Indian  Hill  Rd. 
Little  Compton,  Rl 
02837 

James  Breed  writes  from  Richland, 
Washington:  "So  far,  only  a  slight  dusting 
from  Mt.  St.  Helens,  but  many  friends  were 
caught  further  north  in  the  thick  of  the 
dust."  .  .  .  Burt  Hinman  is  currently  vice 
president  of  Varco  with  responsibilities  for 
international  operations,  purchasing,  R&D, 
and  the  manufacturing  of  equipment  for 
sorting  and  coating  forms  which  Varco 
manufactures.  The  company  manufactures 
forms  for  all  purposes,  including  those  for 
computer  printing  and  machine  reading. 
...  Ed  Swanson  is  "unloading"  a  big  house 
for  a  smaller  one  with  more  land.  He  likes 
gardening  and  finds  Washington  an  in- 
creasingly interesting  place  to  be. 


1946 


Secretaries: 

M.  Daniel  Lacedonia 

106  Ridge  Rd. 

East  Longmeadow,  MA 

01028 


REUNION 

JUNE  1 98 1 


George  H.  Conley,  Jr. 
213  Stevens  Dr. 
Pittsburgh,  PA 
15236 


Judge  Ernest  Hayeck  has  been  elected  to 
membership  in  the  American  Antiquarian 
Society,  which  is  headquartered  in  Worces- 
ter. He  is  a  justice  in  the  Commonwealth  of 


Massachusetts  Trial  Court,  District  Court 
Department,  Central  Worcester  Division. 
The  AAS  is  the  first  historical  society  that 
has  national  collections  and  serves  scholars 
and  researchers  worldwide.  The  library 
holds  examples  of  over  2h  of  all  American 
material  printed  before  1821  and  its  collec- 
tion covers  material  up  through  1876. 

In  February,  the  Rev.  John  Knibb,  Jr., 
was  elected  president  of  the  Virginia  Chris- 
tian Ministers  Conference  (Disciples  of 
Christ).  He  has  been  pastor  of  the  Hampton 
(Va.)  Christian  Church  since  1967. .  .  .  Cur- 
rently, Jack  Laffey  serves  as  vice  president 
of  marketing  for  worldwide  major  accounts 
at  Clark  Equipment  Corporate  Headquar- 
ters in  Benton  Harbor,  Mich.  He  travels  a 
great  deal  and  is  responsible  for  the  full 
Clark  product  line  to  major  accounts.  The 
product  line  covers  construction  equip- 
ment including  loaders,  scrapers,  cranes, 
graders,  and  skimmers. 

Thomas  Lempges  has  been  named  to 
the  newly-created  post  of  vice  president  of 
nuclear  generation  by  the  Niagara 
Mohawk  Power  Corp.,  Syracuse,  N.Y.  Pre- 
viously, he  was  head  of  nuclear  generation. 
In  1949,  he  joined  the  firm  at  the  Dunkirk 
steam  station.  A  total  of  22  years  of  his 
experience  has  been  in  nuclear  generation. 
He  was  concerned  with  the  Enrico  Fermi 
fast  breeder  reactor  in  Michigan,  a  jointly 
sponsored  reactor  project  in  Vallecitos, 
Calif.,  the  design  and  supervision  of 
Nine-Mile  Point  and  the  functions  of  the 
FitzPatrick  plant.  He  is  a  licensed  profes- 
sional engineer. 

Donald  Nichols  has  retired.  Formerly,  he 
was  associate  technical  director  of  en- 
gineering and  technical  supply  at  Naval 
Underwater  Systems  Center,  New  London, 
Conn. 


1947 

Representative 
Allan  Glazer 
20  Monadnock  Dr. 
Shrewsbury,  MA 
01545 

Norman  Feldman  holds  the  post  of  vice 
president  of  operations  at  The  Three 
Phoenix  Co.,  Phoenix,  Arizona. 


1948 


Secretary: 

Representative: 

Paul  E.  Evans 

James  G.  McKernan 

69ClairmontSt 

516  Brook  Forest  Ln 

Longmeadow,  MA 

Charlotte.  NC 

01106 

28211 

Thomas  Hess  is  director  of  engineering  for 
fuel  injection  equipment  at  Stanadyne/ 
Hartford  Division  of  Roosa  Master.  .  .  . 
Richard  Home  continues  with  Cincinnati 
Milacron  Co.,  and  is  presently  regional 
administrator  in  St.  Louis,  Mo.  .  .  .  Gordon 
Keller  writes  that  he  is  retired  from  AVCO 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1980  /  27 


and  is  "messing  around  with  solar  do-it- 
yourself  to  keep  in  touch  with  the  engineer- 
ing philosophy."  Recently  he  participated 
in  a  Total  Environmental  Action  Seminar  in 
Harrisville,  N.H. .  .  .  ArneKellstrom  is  leav- 
ing New  Jersey  this  summer  for  Houston, 
Texas,  where  Ingersoll  Rand  is  setting  up 
new  headquarters  for  the  Gas  Compression 
Group.  He  has  been  with  the  company  for 
32  years,  and  is  now  vice  president  of 
product  management,  a  post  related  to  all 
oil  field  and  process  industry  products. 

Daniel  Sheingold  edited  Transducer  In- 
terfacing Handbook  (a  Guide  to  Analog 
Signal  Conditioning),  which  was  recently 
published  by  Analog  Devices,  Inc.,  of  Nor- 
wood, Mass.  The  manager  of  technical 
marketing  at  Analog  Devices,  Inc.,  Shein- 
gold is  also  editorof  "Analog  Dialogue."  In 
the  course  of  a  long  career  in  analog  com- 
puting and  data-acquisition,  his  major  pub- 
lications include  the  Analog  Devices' 
Analog-Digital  Conversion  Handbook, 
andNonlinear  Circuits  Handbook ,  and  ear- 
lier, the  Philbrick  Applications  Manual  for 
Operational  Amplifiers,  and  The  Lightning 
Empiricist. 


1949 


Secretary: 
Howard  J.  Green 
1  Kenilworth  Rd. 
Worcester,  MA 
01602 


Representative 
Sidney  Madwed 
215  Crest  Terrace 
Fairfield,  CT 
06432 


Dean  Amidon,  commissioner  of  the  Mas- 
sachusetts Department  of  Public  Works, 
was  named  one  of  the  top  ten  Public  Works 
Leaders-Of-The-Year  during  the  observ- 
ance of  National  Public  Works  Week  in 
May.  He  directs  4,500  DPW  employees 
and  is  responsible  for  an  operating  budget 
of  $100  million.  He  originated  a  useful  life 
replacement  schedule  for  DPW  equipment 
to  increase  efficiency  and  reduce  mainte- 
nance costs  and  has  developed  a  caravan/ 
masspool  program  to  assist  private  firms  in 
the  development  of  commuter  van  and  car 
pools fortheiremployees.  Under  Amidon's 
direction,  the  DPW  had  surpassed  its  goal 
of  advertising  $200  million  of  various  types 
of  construction  projects  for  the  first  time  in 
history,  and  has  streamlined  operations  to 
operate  more  efficiently  with  available  re- 
sources. 

Phil  Buffinton  continues  as  chief  operat- 
ing officer  for  State  Farm  Fire  &  Casualty 
Co.  and  State  Farm  General  Insurance  Co., 
wholly-owned  subsidiaries  of  State  Farm 
Mutual.  He  serves  on  the  board  of  directors 
of  both  subsidiaries.  Since  his  companies 
are  among  the  largest  writers  of  home- 
owners insurance,  he  is  very  interested  in 
construction  standards,  windstorm  resist- 
ance, and  arson  detection.  He  belongs  to 
the  American  Academy  of  Actuaries  and 
the  Casualty  Actuarial  Society. .  .  .  Richard 
Hawie  has  retired. .  .  .  Bill  Julian  has  ac- 
quired a  Vermont  real  estate  license  and 


plans  to  sell  some  condominiums  and  lots 
at  Burke  Mt. .  .  .  Daniel  McQuillan  serves 
as  a  broker  for  South  Coast  Realty,  Mat- 
tapoisett,  Mass.  He  is  also  a  general  man- 
agement consultant  doing  business  under 
the  name  of  McQuillan  Associates. 

Edward  Randall  was  elected  a  director  of 
Morgan  Construction  Co.,  Worcester,  and 
was  simultaneously  promoted  to  vice  pres- 
ident of  rolling  mill  engineering  administra- 
tion and  purchasing.  Since  1954,  he  has 
been  with  the  company,  which  he  has 
served  as  vice  president,  project  adminis- 
tration and  purchasing.  He  belongs  to  the 
ASME  and  is  a  director  of  the  Purchasing 
Management  Association  of  Worcester. 


1950 


Secretary: 

Lester  J  Reynolds,  Jr. 

15  Cherry  Lane 

Basking  Ridge, NJ 

07920 


Representative: 
Henry  S  Coe,  Jr 
3  Harwick  Rd 
Wakefield,  MA 
01880 


Dan  Harrington,  Jr.,  presidentof  Sunnyside 
Motor  Co.,  has  been  reelected  a  library 
trustee  in  the  town  of  Holden,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Kenneth  Muccino,  an  employee  of  Peter 
Paul  Cadbury  in  Naugatuck  (Conn.)  since 
1 957,  is  currently  director  of  engineering. 
He  has  two  sons:  Kenneth  73,  who  works 
for  Northeast  Utilities  in  Berlin,  Conn.,  and 
Keith,  a  second-year  medical  resident  at  St. 
Francis  Hospital  in  Hartford.  .  .  .  James 
O'Connor  holds  the  post  of  program  man- 
ager at  Hazeltine  Corp.,  Greenlawn,  N.Y. 
Presently,  he  is  working  on  a  NATO  E-3A 
program  at  Siemens  for  Hazeltine.  .  .  . 
Charles  Seaver  is  an  energy  conservation 
engineerat  Ball  State  University  in  Muncie, 
Indiana. 

During  the  past  ten  years,  some  6,000 
people  have  settled  in  Guilford,  Conn., 
most  of  them  in  subdivisions  engineered  by 
Russell  Waldo  and  Associates.  (Waldo's 
son,  Jonathan,  78,  is  with  the  firm.)  The 
Waldo  company  has  also  handled  the  en- 
gineering end  of  nearly  80%  of  the  town's 
residential  and  commercial  development, 
and  about  V3  of  Madison's  (Conn.),  as  well 
as  numerous  jobs  along  the  shoreline.  A 
self-described  conservationist,  Waldo  likes 
to  build  multi-family  housing  projects  to 
save  energy  and  keep  land  open.  He  also 
likes  to  provide  affordable  modern  rental 
housing,  and  points  out  that  40%  of  the 
residents  of  the  apartments  in  his  Straw- 
berry Hill  complex  are  retired. 

Philip  Wild  has  been  elected  a  director 
by  the  board  of  directors  at  Stone  &  Web- 
ster Engineering  Corporation.  He  was  also 
appointed  director  of  engineering.  In  his 
new  post,  Wild  is  responsible  for  engineer- 
ing in  the  firm's  Boston  headquarters,  as 
well  as  engineering  and  design  throughout 
the  international  corporation.  A  vice  presi- 
dent since  1972,  during  his  24  years  with 
the  company,  he  has  engineered  and  de- 
signed major  power  projects,  headed  the 


marketing  department,  and  most  recently 
has  held  the  post  of  senior  engineering 
manager.  Wild,  a  professional  engineer, 
belongs  to  the  U.S.  Committee  of  the 
International  Commission  on  Large  Dams 
and  the  International  Society  of  Soil  Me- 
chanics and  Foundation  Engineering.  He  is 
also  a  member  of  the  ASCE  and  holds  a 
master's  degree  from  Princeton.  He  is  a 
town  meeting  member  in  Walpole,  Mass. 


I95 1        REUNION 


Secretary 
Stanley  L.  Miller 
11  Ashwood  Rd. 
Paxton,  MA 
01612 


TUNE  1 98 1 

Representative: 
Duncan  W.  Munro 
59BnghamSt 
Northboro,  MA 
01532 


Capt.  Ralph  Auerbach,  Jr.,  Civil  Engineer 
Corps,  U.S.  Army,  retired  on  July  1st 
following  26  years  of  Navy  service.  His  final 
assignment  was  as  executive  officer  of  the 
Western  Division,  Naval  Facilities  Com- 
mand, San  Bruno,  Calif.  This  fall  he  will 
enterthe  DBA  program  at  Florida  State. .  .  . 
Leo  Lemere  has  transferred  to  The  Badger 
Co.,  Inc.,  as  vice  president  of  project  con- 
trols. .  .  .  Jack  Reid's  company,  Diversified 
Metals  Products,  which  he  headed  as  pres- 
ident, recently  merged  with  Koch  Engineer- 
ing Company,  Inc.,  Fairfield,  N.J.  Currently, 
he  holds  the  post  of  general  manager  of  the 
Divmet  Division  at  Koch. 


1952 


Secretary: 
Edward  G.  Samolis 
580  Roberts  Ave 
Syracuse,  NY 
13207 


Representative 
John  M  Tracy 
1 5  School  St. 
Northboro,  MA 
01532 


He 


Lee  Tuomenoksa,  executive  director  of  the 
Data  Communications  Division  of  Bell 
Labs,  has  been  elected  a  fellow  of  IEEE, 
was  cited  for  his  "contributions  to  the 
development  of  telephone  electronic 
switching  systems." 


1953 


Secretary 

Dr  David  S  Jenney 

109WilbrookRd. 

Stratford,  CT 

06497 


Representative 
George  T  Abdow 
35  Forest  Glen 
West  Springfield.  MA 
01089 


^Married:  Daniel  W.  Furman  and  Marcia 
Brandwein  on  May  4,  1980,  in  New  York. 
Mrs.  Furman  graduated  from  Pratt  Insti- 
tute. She  is  director  of  styling  for  M.  Low- 
enstein  and  Sons  in  New  York  City.  The 
groom,  who  has  an  industrial  engineering 
degree  from  Columbia,  is  in  business  in  the 
U.S.  Virgin  Islands. 


28  /  Summer  1980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


Dave  Beach  is  still  with  Kodak,  now 
working  in  the  medical  products  field  as 
program  manager  for  automatic  blood 
analyzers.  Two  of  the  four  Beach  children 
are  through  college  (St.  Lawrence  and  Rus- 
sell Sage),  and  the  third  is  at  Michigan.  The 
youngest  is  in  high  school.  Dave  stays 
active  with  a  "strong  bug"  for  ski  racing. 
He  has  entered  the  New  York  State  Senior 
Race  Circuit  and  won  his  age  group  in  78 
and  was  second  in  79.  This  year  he  raced 
on  the  women's  Olympic  downhill  course 
atWhiteface  Mt.  in  the  Senior  Nationals. 
Among  Dave's  other  interests  are  the  Ski 
Patrol  and  tennis.  Last  year,  he  reached  the 
semi-finals  in  the  Rochester  Senior  (tennis) 
Districts. 

Tom  Bellew  celebrated  his  27th  year 
with  IBM  in  June.  Currently,  he  is  a  staff 
engineer  in  packaging  and  distribution  of 
large  scale  computer  systems.  Daughter 
Diane  is  a  teacher;  Lynne,  a  speech 
therapist;  and  Jody,  a  college  graduate. 
David  continues  at  Clarkson.  Tom  has 
served  as  an  officer  and/or  chief  of  the 
Hyde  Park  (NY)  Volunteer  Fire  Department 
for  over  20  years.  He  and  his  family  enjoy 
downhill  skiing.  Recently  Tom  completed 
his  20th  year  as  secretary-treasurer  of  his 
10-pin  bowling  club. 

Mike  Cariglia  is  presently  an  engineering 
analyst  with  New  England  Power  in 
Westboro,  Mass.  He  says  that  a  WPI/NEES 
Corporate  Contacts  Program  has  been  set 
up  for  the  purpose  of  keeping  WPI 
alumni-employees  informed  about  ac- 
tivities taking  place  at  WPI. 

Ed  Diamond  writes  from  Cutchogue, 
N.Y.,  that  he's  working  on  electronic  war- 
fare systems  for  Grumman  on  almost  a 
60-hourweek.  He  reports,  "It'salmostfun, 
something  like  working  out  puzzles  all  the 
time.  We  are  not  far  from  the  Star  Wars 
concepts."  The  Diamonds  have  four  chil- 
dren aged  one  to  twelve.  Ed  and  the  oldest 
enjoy  sailing  on  Peconic  Bay.  Ed's  "check- 
ered career"  includes  a  tour  as  a  project 
engineer  on  Ranger  at  NASA,  design  of  a 
solar  system  for  an  energy  house  for 
Grumman,  and  a  spare  time  stint  as  editor 
of  "Mensa."  He  says  that  he  considered 
working  in  energy  as  a  career,  but  came  to 
his  senses  in  time. 

Ed  should  compare  notes  with  Dave 
Elovitz,  whose  letterhead  carries  the  logo, 
Energy  Economics.  (Dave's  new  business 
venture  was  outlined  in  the  winter7our- 
nal. )  He  writes  that  his  consulting  business 
is  busier  than  he  ever  intended.  With  the 
three  Elovitz  offspring  through  college,  his 
wife,  Franny ,  is  more  free  to  travel  with  him 
when  his  consulting  takes  him  to  interest- 
ing places  like  Guam  and  Truk.  Their  son, 
Ken,  a  materials  science  graduate  of 
Lehigh,  is  a  process  engineer  at  Texas 
Instruments  in  Attleboro.  Daughter  Sara 
went  to  Syracuse  and  Curry  and  teaches 
multiply  handicapped  children  at  Little 
Peoples  School  in  Newton.  She  also  does 
some  typing  for  her  dad.  Gary  just 
graduated  from  Dartmouth  and  is  in 


graduate  school  in  Israel.  Although  the 
senior  Elovitzes  are  involved  with  Dave's 
business,  they  still  sing  in  the  Temple  choir, 
and  Franny  helped  with  the  Sisterhood 
cookbook  fund-raising  project.  Dave  has 
finished  a  chapterfora  McGraw-Hill  hand- 
book, and  is  writing  a  magazine  article  on 
ventilation  for  Plant  Engineering.  He 
teaches  seminars,  sails,  and  is  involved  with 
the  American  Field  Service.  His  AEPi 
roommate,  Arthur  Shepard,  lives  right 
around  the  corner  from  him. 

Your  secretary,  Dave  Jenney,  proudly 
reports  he  finished  his  fourth  Boston 
Marathon  in  April  with  a  closing  "sprint"  to 
break  three  hours  by  ten  seconds  —  good 
for  1536th  place. .  .  .  H.  G.  Stanton  is  the 
controller  for  DiEugenio  Tool  Center,  Inc., 
Phoenix,  Ariz.  After  retiring  from  the  USAF 
in  1972  as  a  lieutenant  colonel,  he  was  an 
industrial  engineer  with  Black  and  Decker 
Corp.  (McCulloch  Corp.,  Lake  Havasu, 
Ariz.).  Recently,  Stan  wasan  honor  student 
at  Arizona  State  University  and  graduated 
with  a  BS  in  accounting. 


Wildt,  who  holds  a  diploma  in  structural 
engineering  from  the  Imperial  College, 
University  of  London,  England,  belongs  to 
the  ASCE,  American  Concrete  Institute, 
National  Fire  Protection  Association,  and 
the  American  Society  for  Testing  and  Mate- 
rials. He  is  a  registered  professional  en- 
gineer in  Massachusetts. 


1955 


Secretary 

Representative: 

Kenneth  L.  Wakeen 

Edouard  S.  P.  Bouvier 

344  Waterville  Rd. 

123  Beech  woods  Dr. 

Avon,  CT 

Madison,  CT 

06001 

06443 

Raynald  LeMieux  holds  the  post  of  man- 
ager of  licensing  sales  at  Atlantic  Richfield 
Company,  Philadelphia.  .  .  .  At  the  present 
time,  Richard  Lucey  is  president  of  Intrex, 
Reading,  Mass.  .  .  .  Donald  McNamarais 
the  president  at  Tara  Chemical  Co., 
Pittsburgh,  Pa. 


1954 

1956 

REUNION 

TUNE  1 98 1 

Secretary: 

Representative 

Secretary 

Representative 

Roger  R  Osell 

Edwin  Shivell 

Rev.  Paul  D  Schoonmaker 

John  M  McHugh 

18  Eliot  Rd. 

64  Woodland  Dr, 

325  North  Lewis  Rd. 

431  Beacon  Hill  Dr 

Lexington,  MA 

Portsmouth,  Rl 

Royersford,  PA 

Cheshire,  CT 

02173 

02871 

19568 

06410 

Neil  Gleberman  has  been  appointed  man- 
ager of  operations  for  the  chemical  division 
of  Koppers  Co.  He  supervises  and  directs 
operations  at  plants  located  in  Bridgeville, 
Oil  City,  and  Petrolia,  Pa.,  and  Chicago,  III. 
.  .  .  Douglas  MacLaren  was  recently  pro- 
moted to  plant  engineer  at  the  Torrington 
Company  (Heavy  Bearings)  in  South  Bend, 
Ind.  He  joined  the  firm  in  1954  and  went  to 
South  Bend  in  1974  as  assistant  sales  man- 
ager. Later,  he  was  named  sales  manager 
for  several  domestic  sales  offices. .  .  .  Mil- 
ton Meckler's  firm,  the  Meckler  Energy 
Group,  has  begun  a  complete  survey  of  the 
air  conditioning  systems  at  the  Naval  Air 
Station  at  Lemoore,  Calif.  Twenty-nine 
major  buildings  are  involved. 

The  sales  engineering  division  of 
Bethlehem  Steel  Corporation's  sales  de- 
partment has  appointed  RogerWildttothe 
newly  created  post  of  project  manager. 
Formerly  a  structural  consultant,  Wildt  will 
have  responsibilities  in  the  area  of  new 
products,  particularly  the  coordination  of 
interdepartmental  market  development 
teams.  He  will  continue  serving  Bethlehem 
and  the  steel  industry  in  the  fields  of  build- 
ing codes  and  structural  fire  protection. 
Prior  to  starting  at  Bethlehem  Steel  in  1 960, 
he  was  an  associate  professor  of  civil  en- 
gineering at  WPI.  From  1963  to  1967  he 
served  the  steel  company  as  an  assistant 
research  engineer.  In  1967,  he  was  trans- 
ferred to  the  engineering  department.  Two 
years  later  he  was  named  a  structural  con- 
sultant in  the  sales  engineering  division. 


Donald  Behringer  was  elected  as  a  one- 
year  member  of  the  Ashburnham  (Mass.) 
Municipal  Light  Board  last  spring.  He  is  a 
senior  engineer  at  GE  in  Fitchburg,  Mass. 
.  .  .  Robert  Farrar  has  been  elected  to  the 
board  of  directors  of  the  Keene  (N.H.) 
Co-operative  Bank.  He  is  president  of  Fred- 
erick A.  Farrar,  Inc.,  and  Farrar  Engineering, 
Inc.,  and  vice  president  of  P.B.  Alford  As- 
sociates, a  snowmaking  consulting  en- 
gineering firm.  Before  returning  to  Keene 
to  join  his  father,  Frederick  A.  Farrar,  '31,  in 
the  electrical  repair,  sales,  and  service  busi- 
ness, Farrar  worked  as  a  design  engineer 
for  Westinghouse.  He  and  his  wife, 
Jeananne,  have  four  children.  .  .  .  Norman 
Fischer  holds  the  post  of  associate  director 
at  Vanderbilt  University  in  Nashville,  Tenn. 

Prof.  Raymond  Hagglund  of  the  WPI 
mechanical  engineering  department  was 
the  featured  speaker  at  an  ASME  meeting 
held  at  the  Old  Mill  in  Westminster,  Mass., 
in  May.  His  topic  was  "Products  Liability  in 
Engineering."  .  .  .  Still  with  Ebasco  Over- 
seas Corp.,  Charles  Healy  is  now  residing  in 
San  Juan,  Puerto  Rico. .  .  .  Anthony  Scan- 
cella  serves  as  plant  manager  for  du  Pont  in 
South  San  Francisco,  Calif. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1980  /  29 


1957 


Secretary: 

Dr.  Robert  A.  Yates 

11  Oak  Ridge  Dr. 

Bethany,  CT 

06525 


sentative  at  Metropolitan  Life  in  West  Palm 
Beach,  Fla.  He  is  also  a  realtor-associate  at 
New  Era  Realty  II  Corp. 


Representative: 
Alex  C.  Papianou 
15  Birch  Tree  Rd. 
Foxboro,  MA 
02035 


John  Braley  is  national  account  manager  at 
Information  Handling  Services  in  Dallas, 
Texas.  .  .  .  Audrey  Carlan,  a  professor  at 
Southwest  College  in  Los  Angeles,  cur- 
rently serves  as  chairman  of  the  mathemat- 
ics department. .  .  .  Thomas  Kohanski  has 
been  doing  design  work  on  submarines  for 
over  20  years.  He  was  with  Electric  Boat 
from  1 959  to  1 968  and  with  Mare  Island 
Naval  Shipyard  since.  Tom  and  Ellie's  chil- 
dren are:  Karen,  21,  a  student  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  California-Davis;  Tim,  1 9,  at  the 
University  of  California-Berkeley;  and 
Mark,  17,  a  high  school  senior. 

Wilson  Sellar  holds  the  position  of  presi- 
dent at  R&M  Stampings,  Inc.,  Westboro, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Carl  Uretsky  is  employed  as 
regional  manager  at  Unitrode  Corp.,  Dal- 
las, Texas. 


1958 


Secretary: 
Harry  R.  Rydstrom 
132  Sugartown  Rd. 
Devon,  PA 
19333 


Last  October,  Jasper  Freese  sold  his  busi- 
ness to  Otto  &  Culver  of  Storm  Lake,  Iowa. 
Currently,  Freese  works  as  manager  of  the 
Greeley,  Colo.,  office  of  the  architectural- 
engineeringfirm. .  .  .  Stewart Gentsch  con- 
tinues with  Rexnord,  and  is  now  president 
of  the  Roller  Chain  Division  in  Springfield, 
Mass. .  .  .  David  Helman  holds  the  post  of 
vice  president  of  administration  at  Insti- 
tutes of  Medical  Sciences,  San  Francisco. 
He  has  an  MS  in  management  from  RPI. 
William  Hopf,  vice  president  and  gen- 
eral manager  of  Walworth  Co. ,  has  re- 
ceived the  "Man-of-the-Year  Award" 
from  the  Valve  Manufacturers'  Associa- 
tion. His  award  read  in  part:  "William  H. 
Hopf  —  for  years  of  meritorious  service  to 
the  valve  industry."  .  .  .  Presently,  Sheldon 
Kesslen  serves  as  plant  manager  at  Alton 
Shoe  Co.,  a  division  of  Shaer  Shoe,  Inc.  .  .  . 
Douglas  Todd  was  co-author  of  "A  Mech- 
anism for  the  Development  and  Use  of 
Synthetic  Fuels"  which  appeared  in  the 
April  24th  issue  of  Public  Utilities 
Fortnightly.  He  is  manager  of  steam  and 
gas  for  power  generation  business  devel- 
opment, gas  turbine  marketing  depart- 
ment, at  GE  in  Schenectady,  N.Y.  He  joined 
GE  in  1 966  and  has  worked  in  heat  transfer 
products  and  the  medium  steam  turbine 
and  gas  turbine  division.  Earlier,  he  was 
with  Alco  Products,  Inc.,  in  nuclear,  petro- 
chemical and  utility  services.  .  .  .  Richard 
Wiinikainen  is  presently  a  sales  repre- 


1959 


Secretary: 

Dr  Frederick  H  Lutze,  Jr. 

1 10  Camelot  Court  NW 

Blacksburg,  VA 

24060 


Representative 

Dr  Joseph  D.  Bronzino 

Trinity  College 

Summit  St. 

Hartford,  CT 

06106 


Burnham  Baker  holds  the  position  of  presi- 
dent at  PenCept,  Inc.,  in  Waltham,  Mass. 
.  .  .  Frederick  Costello  was  promoted  to 
vice  president  of  sales  for  the  ethylene 
oxide  derivatives  division  of  Union  Carbide 
Corp.  and  is  now  headquartered  in 
Moorestown,  N.J.  He  began  work  as  a  sales 
trainee  in  New  York  for  the  company  fol- 
lowing graduation.  He  was  advanced 
through  the  chemical  field  sales  organiza- 
tion and  was  named  district  sales  manager 
in  St.  Louis,  Mo.  In  1971,  he  was  named 
market  sales  manager  in  New  York.  Later, 
he  became  the  EOD  division  director  of 
sales  in  Moorestown.  The  Costellos  and 
their  three  daughters  and  three  sons  live  in 
Moorestown. 

Wayne  Gass  continues  as  director  of 
physical  facilities  and  assistant  business 
manager  at  Mount  Holyoke  College.  He  is 
responsible  for  800  acres  and  100  build- 
ings, including  50  major  structures  and  40 
faculty  houses.  He  directs  a  corps  of  250 
people  whose  talents  include  pruning,  car- 
pentry, and  cooking.  With  the  college  since 
the  early  1 960's,  Wayne  has  seen  the 
campus  expand  considerably  with  a 
number  of  new  buildings  being  built  and 
older  ones  being  renovated.  In  the  1970's, 
the  school  caught  its  breath  with  reduced 
building  activity,  and  in  the  1980's  is  look- 
ing ahead  to  energy  conservation.  Says 
Gass,  "It's  the  route  we  have  to  walk."  He 
holds  an  MS  from  MIT  and  is  active  with 
the  Holyoke  Rotary  Club's  Foreign  Student 
Program. 

Michael  Hertzberg,  president  of  Michael 
A.  Hertzberg  Consulting  Engineers,  Inc., 
Waitsfield,  VT,  was  recently  elected  vice 
president  of  the  American  Consulting  En- 
gineers Council  (ACEC)  for  1980-82.  The 
Council  represents  3,600  independent  en- 
gineering firms.  Previously,  Hertzberg 
served  as  a  member  of  the  ACEC  Engineer- 
ing Education  and  Scholarships  Commit- 
tee, the  Business  Practices  Committee,  the 
Interprofessional  Committee,  the  AIA- 
ACEC  Liaison  Committee,  and  the  Planning 
Cabinet. 

His  own  firm,  established  in  1967,  spe- 
cializes in  mechanical,  electrical,  alternative 
energy  and  energy  conservation  engineer- 
ing services.  Formerly,  he  had  been  presi- 
dent and  national  director  of  ACEC- 
Vermont  and  had  held  posts  in  three  com- 
panies. In  1978,  Hertzberg  received  an 
ACEC-Vermont  engineering  excellence 
honorable  mention  for  the  mechanical  en- 


gineering design  of  the  Vermont  State 
Hospital  in  Waterbury.  He  has  studied  at 
NYU,  CCNY,  and  the  University  of  Illinois. 
A  member  of  the  National  (and  Vermont) 
Society  of  Professional  Engineers,  he  also 
belongs  to  the  American  Society  of  Heat- 
ing, Refrigerating,  and  Air  Conditioning 
Engineers. 

Norman  Monks  serves  as  division  opera- 
tions managerat  Rexnord. .  .  .  Still  with  the 
Army  Corps  of  Engineers,  Leo  Price  con- 
tinues his  involvement  with  the  construc- 
tion of  two  airbases  in  Israel.  He  expects  to 
be  back  in  the  U.S.  next  year.  .  .  .  Phil 
Puddington  has  joined  P.T.  Brake  Lining 
Co.,  Inc.,  Lawrence,  Mass.  He  is  a  member 
of  theWPI  Fund  Board. 


i960 


Secretary 

Representative 

PaulW.  Bayliss 

JohnW  Biddle 

170WyngateDr. 

78  Highland  St 

Barnngton,  IL 

Holden.MA 

60010 

01520 

Still  with  IBM,  William  Firla  is  now  senior 
market  support  center  representative  in  the 
Data  Processing  Division,  Waltham,  Mass. 
.  .  .  Paul  Honer  is  employed  as  marketing 
and  sales  manager  at  Kennedy  Engineering 
Co.,  Tulsa,  Okla.  He  is  an  ordained  deacon 
in  the  Tulsa  Diocese  of  the  Catholic  Church, 
assigned  to  St.  Ann's  in  Broken  Arrow.  He 
and  his  wife,  Ruthann,  have  two  children. 
.  .  .  Irwin  Jacobs  is  vice  president  of  the 
commercial  OEM  group  at  Digital  Equip- 
ment Corp.,  Maynard,  Mass.  .  .  .  Robert 
Kandall  holds  the  post  of  commercial  vice 
presidentatPullman-Kellogg,  Hackensack, 
N.J. 

Continuing  with  Polaroid,  Richard  Lor- 
ing  is  presently  a  senior  manager  of  techni- 
cal manufacturing  in  the  film  division,  in 
Waltham,  Mass.  His  wife,  Pat,  is  active  in 
the  Massachusetts  Association  of  Conser- 
vation Commission  and  serves  as  chairwo- 
man of  the  Town  of  Westford  Conserva- 
tion Commission.  The  Lorings  have  two 
children  in  high  school. 

Kenneth  Matson  was  named  vice  presi- 
dent of  the  Public  Service  Electric  &  Gas 
Research  Corporation,  where  he  began  as  a 
cadet  engineer  in  1 960  in  New  Jersey.  He 
has  an  MBA  from  Rider  College  and  at- 
tended the  program  for  management  de- 
velopment at  Harvard  Graduate  School  of 
Business.  He  is  married  and  has  four  chil- 
dren..  .  .  Formerly  a  field  sales  managerfor 
the  Rubber  Chemicals  Division  of  Mon- 
santo Co. ,  Harry  Ray  is  now  plant  manager 
of  the  Detergents  and  Phosphates  Division, 
Monsanto,  in  Trenton,  Mich.  Son  Tim  is  a 
student  at  Cornell;  Kevin  a  high  school 
student;  and  Susan  is  in  elementary  school. 


30  /  Summer  1980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


David  Willard,  a  group  leader  at  the 
Mitre  Corportion,  Bedford,  Mass.,  has 
been  awarded  a  patent  as  co-inventor  of  a 
digital  bus  communications  system.  The 
device  is  a  time-division  multiple-access 
communications  system  that  includes  a 
number  of  terminals  coupled  to  a  common 
signal  path  or"bus."  Itoperates  more  than 
seven  times  faster  than  an  earlier  version 
developed  at  the  system  engineering  firm, 
for  which  Willard  had  previously  received  a 
patent.  With  Mitre  since  1960,  he  had  also 
been  associated  with  Crompton  & 
Knowles,  and  had  served  as  an  indepen- 
dent consultant.  He  has  a  BS  from  the 
University  of  Vermont  and  a  master's  from 
WPI. 


I961        REUNION 


Secretary: 
John  J.  Gabarro 
8  Monadnock  Rd 
Arlington,  MA 
02174 


JUNE  I981 


Henry  "Hank"  Allessio  is  presently  a  vice 
president  and  member  of  the  board  of 
directors  of  Hayes/Hill  Incorporated,  New 
York.  He  had  been  with  William  E.  Hill  & 
Company  for  over  ten  years  before  it 
merged  with  Robert  H.  Hayes  and  As- 
sociates in  1979.  He  holds  an  MS  in  man- 
agement from  RPI.  Prior  to  joining  Hill,  he 
was  with  New  York  Telephone  and  Geon 
International.  Hayes/Hill  is  an  international 
management  consulting  firm. 

Roger  Borden,  associate  professor  of 
mechanical  engineering  at  WPI,  is  taking  a 
one-year  leave  of  absence  from  his  teach- 
ing duties  to  join  other  top  engineers  from 
around  the  world  to  "shape  the  vehicle  of 
the  1980's."  In  June,  he  left  for  Boston  to 
work  with  the  U.S.  Department  of  Trans- 
portation's Transportation  Systems  Center. 
Says  Roger,  "The  car  of  the  80's  will  be 
practical,  not  a  thing  of  beauty.  It  is  cer- 
tainly going  to  have  to  last  a  lot  longer  than 
our  present  cars,  since  it  will  undoubtedly 
cost  a  good  deal  more."  He  expects  that 
the  biggest  change  in  automobiles  will  be  a 
move  away  from  metals  as  the  primary 
material  for  car  bodies.  "Metals  corrode, 
are  heavy,  and  cut  down  on  mileage."  He 
believes  there  will  be  a  switch  in  the  indus- 
try from  metals  to  composite  materials  or 
plastics,  and  that  the  use  of  the  diesel  and 
gas  turbine  engines  will  be  more  wide- 
spread. Along  with  the  advances  in  auto 
construction,  Borden  envisions  the  growth 
of  mass  transit  as  one  of  the  better  hopes  in 
solving  our  transportation  problems. 


Bradford  Cushing  has  been  promoted  to 
manager  of  engineering  design  at  Weston 
Designers-Consultants.  He  is  responsible 
for  all  design  activities  in  the  engineering 
and  construction  management  division. 
With  Weston  since  1975,  he  was  a  project 
engineer  and  project  manager,  and  has  had 
1 3  years  of  experience  in  the  industrial  and 
municipal  markets.  During  his  career,  he 
has  also  been  with  Enviroengineering,  Inc., 
and  GE's  Knolls  Atomic  Power  Laboratory. 
Weston  is  a  500-person  international  en- 
vironmental energy  design-consulting  or- 
ganization headquartered  in  West  Chester, 
Pa. .  .  .  Richard  Davis,  who  holds  an  MBA 
from  Pepperdine  University,  Los  Angeles, 
presently  serves  as  manager  of  strategic 
planning  for  the  military  products  group  at 
Intel  Corp.  in  Santa  Clara,  Calif. 

James  Dunn  is  president  of  Dunn  En- 
gineering Co.,  Inc.,  Foxboro,  Mass. .  .  . 
Daniel  Geller  works  as  a  senior  environ- 
mental consultant  with  the  Maryland  En- 
vironmental Service  in  Annapolis.  He  and 
his  wife,  Susan,  and  two  children  live  in 
Alexandria,  Va. .  .  .  Allen  Johnson  holds 
the  post  of  district  sales  manager  at 
Lambda  Semiconductor  in  Tampa,  Fla. .  .  . 
G.  Leonard  Johnson  was  recently  pro- 
moted to  director  of  generation  engineer- 
ing at  Northeast  Utilities  (NU).  Previously, 
he  was  director  of  reliability  engineering 
and  quality  assurance.  In  1 961 ,  Johnson 
joined  the  Hartford  Electric  Light  Com- 
pany. In  1966,  he  transferred  to  NU.  From 
1 968  to  1 975,  he  was  project  engineer  and 
acting  project  manager  for  Millstone  II. 
Johnson  belongsto  NU's  Nuclear  Speakers' 
Bureau,  the  ASME,  and  the  American  Nu- 
clear Society.  He  is  a  registered  professional 
engineer  in  Connecticut.  He,  his  wife, 
Lauretta,  and  son  and  daughter  live  in 
Glastonbury. 

Stephen  Klein  is  a  senior  staff  scientist  at 
Science  Applications,  Inc.,  La  Jolla,  Calif. 
.  .  .  Still  with  Malcolm  Pirnie,  Inc.,  Peter 
Kuniholm  is  now  resident  project  manager 
for  the  environmental  consulting  firm  in 
Cairo,  Egypt.  He  is  concerned  with  waste- 
watersystems  rehabilitation  and  expansion 
in  the  Suez  Canal  region,  including  the 
cities  of  Port  Said,  Ismailia,  and  Suez.  .  .  . 
Merrill  Rutman  continues  as  an  electronics 
engineer  for  U.S.  Army  CERCOM,  Ft. 
Monmouth,  NJ. . .  .  Conrad  Matuzek  has 
been  honored  by  New  England  Telephone 
Co.  for  his  sales  achievements.  He  is  recog- 
nized by  the  company  for  doing  an  out- 
standing job  developing  his  segment  of  the 
business  market  for  1979.  Matuzek  re- 
ceived a  personalized  plaque  from  the 
company  president,  and  was  named  a 
member  of  the  New  England  Telephone 
President's  Club.  The  club  is  comprised  of 
top  sales  performers  in  each  company  divi- 
sion. Matuzek  is  marketing  manager  in 
Waltham.  His  organization  is  responsible 
for  electronic  and  electrical  industries  in  the 
five-state  area  served  by  the  company. .  .  . 
Currently,  Charles  Mello  serves  as  plant 
engineer  at  Coppus  Engineering  in  Worces- 
ter. 


1962 


Secretary: 
Harry  T  Rapelje 
1313  Parma  Hilton  Rd 
Hilton,  NY 
14468 


Representative 
Richard  J  DiBuono 
44  Lambert  Circle 
Marlboro.  MA 
01752 


Robert  Cassanelli  has  been  promoted  to 
laboratory  manager  of  the  General  Foods 
plant  in  Dover,  Delaware.  Since  1974,  he 
has  been  managing  the  starch  and  instant 
pudding  programs  at  Dover.  He  started 
with  the  firm  in  1964  in  the  Tarrytown 
(N.Y.)  technical  center.  He  holds  an  ad- 
vanced degree  in  food  science  from  the 
University  of  Massachusetts.  ...  Dr. 
Keyren  Cotter  is  assistant  director  at  the 
Center  for  Fracture  Mechanics  at 
Washington  University  in  St.  Louis,  Mo. .  .  . 
Paul  Cultrera  serves  as  director  of  the 
Cooperative  Education  and  Placement  De- 
partment at  Manatee  Junior  College, 
Bradenton,  Fla.  .  .    Arthur  Dobreski  is  em- 
ployed as  a  facilities  operations  managerat 
the  Signetics  Division  of  U.S.  Phillips  in 
Sunnyvale,  Calif.  The  Dobreskis  have  three 
children.  .  .  .  John  Rupprecht  is  a  president 
at  Sullair  Corp.,  Michigan  City,  Indiana. 


1963 


Secretary: 

Robert  E.  Maynard,  Jr. 

8  Institute  Rd. 

North  Grafton,  MA 

01536 


Representative 
Joseph  J.  Mielinski,  Jr. 
34  Pioneer  Rd. 
Holden,  MA 
01520 


Albert  Brodeur  is  employed  as  manager  of 
engineering  computing  at  Pratt  &  Whitney, 
West  Palm  Beach,  Fla. ...  Dr.  Robert  Des- 
mond, P.E.,  former  head  of  the  mechanical 
engineering  department  at  Rochester 
(N.Y.)  Institute  of  Technology  (RIT),  has 
been  named  director  of  RIT's  new  Institute 
for  Applied  Energy  Studies.  He  will  be 
responsible  for  the  institute's  energy  re- 
search and  development  programs,  includ- 
ing a  $483,089  federal  grant  to  reduce 
energy  consumption  on  the  Rochester 
campus.  The  new  institute  will  conduct 
research  and  development  programs  in 
applied  energy  for  the  private  industrial 
sector  and  study  alternative  sources  of 
energy.  Energy  House,  a  solar  powered 
energy  efficient  home  built  through 
cooperative  efforts,  will  come  under  the 
authority  of  the  institute.  Dr.  Desmond  was 
appointed  to  the  directorship  because  of 
his  extensive  experience  in  energy  re- 
search. He  has  taught  at  RIT  since  1 970, 
and  he  served  as  a  consultant  to  the 
Swedish  State  Power  Board  while  on  sab- 
batical leave  in  1976  and  1977.  He  belongs 
to  Pi  Tau  Sigma,  Sigma  Xi,  ASME,  Roches- 
ter Engineering  Society,  and  ASEE,  among 
other  societies.  He  has  a  PhD  from  the 
University  of  Minnesota.  The  Desmonds 
live  in  Lima,  N.Y. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1 980  /  31 


In  May,  Dr.  Allen  Hoffman,  associate 
professor  of  mechanical  engineering  at 
WPI,  was  selected  as  the  WPI  Outstanding 
Teacher  of  1980.  He  received  a  $1,000 
award  and  a  citation  from  the  college  trus- 
tees. He  holds  a  PhD  from  the  University  of 
Colorado.  In  1 964,  he  joined  the  WPI 
faculty  as  a  teaching  assistant.  His  profes- 
sional interests  are  in  vibrations,  fluid  me- 
chanics, biomechanics,  and  the  environ- 
ment, including  pollution  abatement  of 
Lake  Quinsigamond.  Since  his  student  days 
as  a  co-captain  of  track  and  cross  country, 
he  has  maintained  his  interest  in  running 
and  has  entered  many  races,  including  the 
Boston  Marathon. 

Presently,  Russell  Hokanson  serves  as 
area  supervisor  at  du  Pont's  Savannah 
River  plant  in  the  reactor  department.  "I 
am  still  trying  to  qualify  for  the  Boston 
Marathon.  It  will  be  a  little  easier  now  since 
I'll  be  40  at  the  time  of  the  next  race."  .  .  . 
Dr.  Richard  lacobucci'sfirm,  Roctronics 
Entertainment  Lighting,  Inc.,  recently  de- 
veloped a  new  light  dimming  package  that 
can  control  up  to  9000  watts  of  power 
without  creating  excessive  interference 
with  sound  systems  nearby.  It  makes  life 
easier  for  touring  performers  because  the 
dimmer  pack  can  be  hung  at  the  top  of 
lighting  towers  adjacent  to  the  lighting 
fixtures.  .  .  .  Joe  Mielinski,  Jr.,  operations 
manager  at  WPI's  Alden  Research  Labora- 
tory, has  been  elected  to  a  three-year  term 
on  the  Holden  (Mass.)  School  Committee. 

The  Power  Systems  Group  of  Combus- 
tion Engineering,  Inc.  (C-E),  has  appointed 
A.  Edward  Scherer  as  director  of  nuclear 
licensing,  Nuclear  Power  Systems  Division. 
He  will  be  responsible  for  assuring  com- 
pliance with  Nuclear  Regulatory  Commis- 
sion regulations,  as  well  as  developing  re- 
sponses to  proposed  licensing  criteria.  After 
serving  in  the  Army  Corps  of  Engineers' 
nuclear  power  program,  he  joined  C-E  in 
1968.  At  C-E  he  was  most  recently  licens- 
ing manager.  He  has  an  MS  from  Pennsyl- 
vania State  University,  and  an  MBA  from 
RPI's  Hartford  Graduate  Center.  He  is  a 
registered  professional  engineer,  and  be- 
longs to  the  C-E  Nuclear  Speaker  Service 
and  the  Atomic  Industrial  Forum's  Steering 
Committee  on  Reactor  Licensing  and 
Safety.  He  also  is  a  member  of  the  Ameri- 
can Nuclear  Society,  the  ASME,  and  the 
Society  of  Sigma  Xi,  an  honorary  scientific 
research  society. 

Timothy  Shea  has  been  appointed  ser- 
vice manager  in  the  newly  formed  Service 
Department  of  the  Westinghouse  Power 
Systems  Projects  Division  (PSPD).  The  new 
service  department  will  work  more  closely 
with  other  Westinghouse  divisions'  service 
operations  to  coordinate  the  total  service 
support  for  PSPD  operating  plants.  Re- 
cently, Shea  completed  an  assignment  in 
Egypt  as  project  director,  Cairo  West  Unit 
No.  4.  Previously,  he  was  site  manager  for 
Kori  Unit  No.  1 .  Since  joining  Westing- 
house in  1971 ,  he  has  held  increasingly 
responsible  assignments. 


1964 


Secretary: 

Representative: 

Dr.  David  T,  Signori,  Jr 

Barry  J  Kadets 

6613  Denny  PI 

26  Harwich  Rd. 

McLean,  VA 

Chestnut  Hill,  MA 

22101 

02167 

^■Born:  to  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Gary  Goshgarian  a 
son,  Nathan,  recently.  Gary  is  a  professor  of 
English  at  Northeastern  University.  This 
year  his  first  novel,  Atlantis  Fire,  was  pub- 
lished by  Dial  Press  (see  spring  Journal), 
and  he  is  now  working  on  his  second, 
which  was  inspired  by  another  real  life 
experience.  (While  at  WPI,  a  classmate 
developed  a  system  to  beat  the  numbers 
game.  Gary  is  weaving  that  system  into  his 
new  novel  which  concerns  the  rip-off  of  the 
state  lottery.)  He  was  the  commencement 
speaker  at  Northeastern  in  June. 

Christopher  Almy  continues  in  his  me- 
chanical engineering  post  at  Knolls  Atomic 
Power  Laboratory,  Schenectady,  N.Y.  He  is 
chief  of  Indian  Princess  Nation,  treasurerof 
the  Boy  Scouts,  a  YMCA  baseball  coach, 
and  a  Sunday  school  teacher.  He  is  also  a 
major  in  the  U.S.  Army  Reserve  and  oc- 
casional does  a  two-week  stint  at  Ft. 
Monmouth,  N.J.  Wife  Marge  is  a  Brownie 
leader  and  does  volunteer  work  in  the 
school  library.  She  and  their  son,  Chris,  Jr., 
are  jogging  companions.  Daughters  Jen 
and  Katherine  enjoy  acrobatics,  baton- 
twirling,  and  piano  playing. 

In  January,  Peter  Dornemann  accepted  a 
new  position  as  director  of  marketing  at 
Digilab,  Inc.,  Cambridge,  Mass.  .  .  .  Don 
Ghiz  remains  as  director  of  steel  purchases 
in  the  purchasing  department  at  Conoco, 
Inc.,  in  Houston,  Texas.  .  .  .  Terry  Harris  is 
now  the  marketing  manager  at  Texas  Ole- 
fins Co.,  Houston.  .  .  .  Ron  Lubowicz,  the 
former  vice  president  and  chief  operating 
officer  of  L  &  T  Builders,  Inc.,  Pampa, 
Texas,  has  been  elected  a  director  and  the 
chief  executive  officer  of  Achievement 
Homes,  Inc.,  of  Lubbock.  Achievement 
Homes  is  active  in  single  and  multi-family 
construction  throughout  west  Texas  and 
eastern  New  Mexico  largely  through  its 
franchising  operations  and  various  limited 
partnerships. 

Dr.  Bruce  Maccabee  has  received  a 
$2,000  award  from  the  National  Enquirer 
for  his  investigation  of  a  New  Zealand  UFO 
case  in  which  a  strange  object  was  filmed 
from  an  airplane  as  well  as  tracked  by  radar. 
The  WPI  Journal  ran  a  story  describing 
Maccabee's  investigations  in  fall  1979. 

Harold  Monde  will  be  chairman  of  the 
Milwaukee  section  of  the  ASME  next  year. 
.  .  .  Frederic  Scofield  holds  the  post  of 
superintendent  of  construction  at  Northern 
Liquid  Fuels  Co.,  Omaha,  Neb.  .  .  .  Pres- 
ently, Thomas  Spargo  is  employed  by  Stan- 
ley Works  in  New  Britain,  Conn.  The  Spar- 
gos,  who  reside  in  Terryville,  have  three 
children. 


The 

Peep  Toad 
Potter 


From  physicist  to  pottery  partner, 
that's  a  thumbnail  description  of 
the  vocational  life  of  Dick  Farrell, 
'64,  over  the  past  few  years. 
Describing  the  advantages  of  his 
current  life,  Dick  says,  "my  wife 
and  I  have  a  lot  of  freedom.  We  have 
a  very  rich  life  in  many  ways. ' ' 

Until  seven  years  ago,  Farrell, 
who  has  a  master's  degree  from 
Brown  University,  worked  as  a 
career  physicist  at  nasa  Electronics 
Research  Center  and  at  Tyco  Corpo- 
rate Research  Center.  His  wife,  San- 
dra, a  graduate  of  Massachusetts 
School  of  Art,  was  art  director  for 
the  Jewish  Community  Center  of 
Brookline  and  later  headed  the  Bos- 
ton ywca  pottery  department. 

In  her  spare  time,  Sandra  made 
pottery  in  a  basement  studio  at 
home.  Dick  became  interested  in 
the  craft  as  he  watched  her  turn  out 
wares  that  she  later  sold  to  shops 
and  galleries.  He  became  so  inter- 
ested, in  fact,  that  he  decided  to  join 
her  in  the  pottery  business  full- 
time. 

'  'We  made  a  six-month  com- 
mitment to  see  if  we  could  make  a 
living  out  of  pottery  and  to  see  if  we 
could  share  our  lives  on  a  24-hour-a- 
day  basis, ' '  Dick  reports.  The  com- 
mitment meant  that  they  would 
have  to  move  into  larger  quarters. 
They  hoped  they  wouldn't  have  to 
leave  New  England. 

A  friend's  suggestion  eventu- 
ally led  them  to  a  run-down  mill  by 
a  waterfall  on  the  Whetstone  Brook 
in  East  Killingly,  Connecticut.  The 
valley  surroundings  were  pictur- 
esque, and  the  mill  affordable.  San- 
dra fell  in  love  with  it  immediately. 
"It  was  so  romantic, ' '  she  thought. 
"It  will  take  a  lot  of  work, ' '  Dick 


32  /  Summer  1980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


thought.  But  the  Farrells  were 
young  and  had  plenty  of  elbow 
grease.  They  decided  to  buy  it. 

It  takes  time  to  renovate  a  200- 
year-old  mill  that  was  once  a  tan- 
nery, a  blacksmith  shop,  and  a 
plastics  storehouse,  into  a  livable 
home,  workshop,  and  gallery.  The 
new  owners  did  all  the  cleaning  and 
construction  work  themselves,  in 
spite  of  the  fact  that  for  six  months 
Dick  continued  to  commute  to  his 
job  in  Waltham.  Still,  they  managed 
to  make  progress.  They  lived  in  a 
small  partitioned  area  on  the  third 
floor  while  creating  their  perma- 
nent living  space  on  the  second 
floor.  "Aesthetically  speaking,  it 
was  the  pits,"  says  Farrell,  recalling 
the  plastic-covered  insulation  that 
served  as  the  partition. 

In  the  early  stages,  Dick  and 
Sandra  had  to  lug  water  and  cook  on 
an  electric  hot  plate.  A  coal  stove 
from  an  old  Pullman  train  car  was 
their  only  heat  source.  Gradually 
they  added  plumbing  and  other 
creature  comforts.  Farrell  engi- 
neered their  water  power  to  provide 


the  mill  with  a  portion  of  its  elec- 
tricity for  free.  His  wife  stripped  the 
ancient  beams  with  a  torch  until 
they  regained  their  original  nut- 
brown  beauty. 

Today  the  30  by  40  foot  living 
space  is  partitioned  with  white 
insulated  panels  and  weathered 
boards.  The  central  part  of  the  space 
soars  to  a  double-layer  Plexiglass 
roof.  There  are  lots  of  plants  about, 
but  little  furniture.  Adjacent  to  the 
living  space  is  a  studio-workshop 
with  pottery  wheels.  The  gallery 
and  kiln  and  glazing  room  are 
located  on  the  first  floor. 

Before  moving  to  Connecticut, 
Sandra  had  sold  her  pottery  to  shops 
and  galleries  and  at  craft  fairs.  Now 
clients  come  to  the  Farrell' s  gallery 
at  Peep  Toad  Mill.  Since  1974 
they've  had  two  shows  a  year,  on 
Labor  Day  and  Thanksgiving  week- 
ends. This  year,  for  the  first  time, 
they  held  a  major  spring  exhibition 
in  May,  and  they  have  plans  to 
extend  their  other  shows  through 
weekends  in  September  and 
December. 


The  May  exhibition  at  Peep 
Toad  Mill  included  works  of  15 
highly  recognized  craftspeople, 
mostly  from  southern  New  Eng- 
land. "We  make  an  effort  to  show 
works  that  integrate  well,  and  our 
approach  to  exhibition  is  one  where 
environments  are  creaed  by  display- 
ing groupings  of  pieces  as  they 
might  be  used  to  enhance  living 
environments."  The  show  was 
attended  well,  though  never 
crowded,  and  was  appreciatively 
received. 

During  the  last  decade,  many 
serious  artists  have  turned  to  craft 
media  for  creative  expression,  and 
the  craft  movement  has  been 
widely  recognized  as  an  important 
direction  in  American  art  today.  "It 
has  been  exciting  and  gratifying  for 
us  to  be  part  of  this  trend, ' '  the  Far- 
rells say. 

Farrell  has  served  on  the  local 
zoning  board  of  appeals  for  the  past 
five  years,  and  has  recently  taken  a 
central  role  in  a  citizens  action 
group  working  to  re-outfit  a  series 
of  large  local  damsites  for  hydro- 
electric generation  —  a  project 
whose  profits  are  to  be  dedicated  to 
public  service. 

Dick  Farrell  says  of  his  unusual 
lifestyle,  "at  the  time  we  decided  to 
make  this  change  in  our  lives,  many 
people  were  baffled  by  what  they 
saw  as  the  sacrifice  of  a  promising 
research  career  for  uncertainty  and 
struggle  as  a  'starving  artist.'  For 
me,  the  choice  arose  out  of  a  feeling 
of  personal  incompleteness. 
Through  my  years  of  education  and 
research,  I  had  accepted  an  identity 
with  my  analytic  mental  function. 
The  left-brain-hemisphere  func- 
tions of  definition  and  analysis  tend 
to  be  developed  in  the  world  of  tech- 
nology at  the  expense  of  the  integra- 
tive, flowing,  creative  functions  of 
the  right  brain.  Looking  back,  I  now 
recognize  that  the  initial  feeling  of 
incompleteness  was  actually  my 
right  brain  creative  function 
demanding  inclusion  in  my  person. 
Working  through  this  identity 
crisis,  and  all  its  attendant  changes, 
has  certainly  been  difficult,  but  it 
has  also  been  fully  worthwhile. ' ' 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1 980  /  33 


1965 

Representative: 
Patrick  T.  Moran 
100  Chester  Rd. 
Boxboro.MA 
01719 

Robert  Asplund,  a  GTE  Products  Corpora- 
tion research  and  development  engineer, 
has  been  named  a  recipient  of  the  Leslie  H. 
Warner  Technical  Achievement  Award  for 
the  conceptual  design  of  the  Flip-Phone 
telephone,  the  first  GTE  phone  designed 
expressly  for  retail  consumers.  Asplund, 
who  shared  the  award  with  a  collaborator, 
helped  design  the  internal  electronic  cir- 
cuits to  fit  the  phone's  compact  size.  He 
was  awarded  $5,000  by  General  Tele- 
phone and  Electronics  Corporation  at 
world  headquarters  in  Stamford,  Conn. .  .  . 
David  Bank  holds  the  post  of  manager  at 
Servall  Mfg.  Corp.,  Fall  River,  Mass. .  .  . 
Dr.  Michael  Boyd  works  as  a  senior  pro- 
grammer at  Sperry  Univac,  Roseville,  Min- 
nesota. 

Wayne  Eddy  serves  as  a  manufacturing 
information  systems  analyst  at  GE  in  Hook- 
sett,  N.H.  He  and  his  family  reside  in  Con- 
cord. .  .  .  Robert  Edwards  is  employed  as  a 
senior geophysicist at  URS/John  A.  Blume& 
Assoc,  San  Francisco.  He  has  an  MA  from 
Berkeley. .  .  .  Robert  Hawes,  Jr.,  has  been 
named  director  of  business  development 
for  Liquid  Paper  Corporation,  a  Gillette  Co., 
in  Dallas,  Texas.  Most  recently,  he  was 
product  manager  for  commercial  products 
for  the  Paper  Mate  Division  of  the  Gillette 
Co.  In  his  newly  created  post,  he  will 
coordinate  marketing,  sales,  manufactur- 
ing, research  and  development,  and  en- 
gineering activities  between  Liquid  Paper 
and  Paper  Mate.  He  will  also  look  for  new 
business  opportunities.  Hawes  has  an  MBA 
from  Boston  College.  Previously,  he  served 
Gillette  as  director  of  operating  planning 
for  Paper  Mate  and  as  administrative  as- 
sistant to  the  president  of  the  Safety  Razor 
Division. 

James  Heinrich  is  employed  as  regional 
engineering  manager  at  Elliott  Co., 
Chicago,  III. .  .  .  Charles  Hunnicutt  has 
been  promoted  to  head  of  the  Rural  and 
Suburban  Switching  Department  at  the  Bell 
Telephone  Laboratories  Indian  Hill  facility 
in  Naperville,  III.  His  department  is  respon- 
sible for  development  of  maintenance 
softwear,  testing  and  field  support  of  elec- 
tronic switching  systems  that  are  part  of 
Bell's  national  telecommunications  net- 
work. Earlier,  Hunnicutt  was  involved  in 
softwear  development  of  a  new  electronic 
switching  system  now  being  developed  at 
Indian  Hill.  He  started  to  work  for  Bell  Labs 
in  1968,  and  holds  an  MSEE  from  RPI.  A 
member  of  Tau  Beta  Pi,  he  also  belongs  to 
Eta  Kappa  Nu  and  Sigma  Xi.  He  is  past 
president  of  the  Tri-City  Hockey  Associa- 
tion and  of  the  Wild  Rose  Elementary 
School  Parent-Teacher  Organization.  The 
Hunnicutts  have  two  sons,  David  and 
Douglas. 


Last  fall,  Amar  Kapur's  company,  Ameri- 
can Industrial  &  Medical  Products,  Inc. 
(AIM),  moved  from  Worcester  to  Auburn 
because  more  space  was  needed  for  future 
expansion.  The  firm  manufactures  and  dis- 
tributes specialty  gases  primarily  for  the 
food,  hospital  and  computer  industries. 
Recently,  AIM  opened  a  welding  store 
offering  a  complete  line  of  welding  prod- 
ucts, and  it  continues  to  offer  expertise  in 
cryogenic  engineering  and  design. .  .  . 
George  Lemmon  is  a  chief  engineer  for 

EBASCO  Services,  New  York  City Still 

with  Bell  Laboratories  in  Whippany,  N.J., 
David  Luber  is  now  supervisor  of  the  en- 
gineering planning  group.  He  also  teaches 
part-time  in  the  Fairleigh  Dickinson 
graduate  business  program. .  .  .  Martin 
Soja  holds  the  post  of  manager  at  Price 
Waterhouse  &  Co.,  New  York  City. 


REUNION 

OCTOBER  3-5 


I966 


Secretary 
Gary  Dyckman 
29Skiltonl_ane 
Burlington,  MA 
01803 


>-Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Stephen  E.  Ander- 
son their  first  child,  a  daughter,  Nora  Ellen, 
on  March  21,1 980.  Steve  is  the  chief 
engineer  at  the  Lee  Company,  Westbrook, 
Conn.  ...  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robert  W. 
Trefry,  a  son,  Brian,  who  joins  sister,  Jen- 
nifer, 4.  Currently,  Trefry  is  a  project  en- 
gineer at  Rust  Engineering,  Birmingham, 
Ala.,  where  he  is  working  on  the  solvent 
refined  coal  project. 

Gary  Cassery  is  employed  as  an  account- 
ingand  inventory  control  managerat Texas 
Instruments  in  Attleboro,  Mass.  .  .  .  Still 
with  Torrington  Company,  Robert  Coates 
presently  serves  as  district  sales  engineer  in 
Charlotte,  N.C.  He  is  associated  with  the 
Torrington  Special  Products  Division. .  .  . 
Kendall  Cowes  works  as  a  senior  engineer 
in  advanced  development  at  Datatrol,  Inc., 
Hudson,  Mass. .  .  .  Earthquake  Engineering 
Systems,  Inc.,  Boston,  employs  Gary 
Dyckman  as  a  project  manager.  The 
Dyckmans  have  two  children  and  live  in 
Burlington. .  .  .  Hank  Flynn  holds  the  post 
of  manager  of  test  engineering  at  Nixdorf 
Computer  Corp.,  North  Reading,  Mass. 

Raymond  Gallant  works  as  a  district 
service  manager  at  Waters  Associates,  Inc. , 
Medford,  Mass. .  .  .  Robert  Holt  has  joined 
Ocean  Data  Systems,  Inc.,  Rockville,  Md., 
as  senior  technical  associate.  .  .  .  Philip 
Hopkinson  holds  the  position  of  manager 
of  engineering  in  the  specialty  transformer 
departmentatGEin  FortWayne,  Ind.  He  is 
a  professional  engineer  in  North  Carolina. 
.  .  .  David  Jorczak  has  a  new  post  as  senior 
mechanical  engineer  at  Kollmorgen  Corp., 
Electro-Optical  Division,  Northampton, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Stephen  Kaiser  serves  as  presi- 
dent of  Kaiser  Sales  Corporation,  Los 
Angeles. .  .  .  Robert  Levine  is  manager  of 
product  planning  and  business  develop- 
ment at  GE  in  Warren,  Mich.  He  and  his 


wife,  Mala,  have  two  children.  .  .  .  Gerald 
Lucas  is  employed  as  staff  manager  at 
AT&T  Co.,  Bedminster,  N.J.  .  .  .  Presently, 
Paul  Peterson  works  as  managerof  techni- 
cal support  at  Software  AG  in  Lakewood, 
Colo..  .  .  John  Petrie  serves  as  senior  appli- 
cations engineer  at  ITT  North  Microsys- 
tems, Deerfield  Beach,  Fla. 

Robert  Rapp  is  assistant  area  superin- 
tendent at  du  Pont  in  Aiken,  S.C. .  .  . 
Peter  Sommer  writes  that  he  and  his  wife 
have  just  adopted  two  beautiful  children. 
.  .  .  Robert  Sternschein  is  employed  as  a 
manufacturing  superintendent  at  Colt 
Firearms,  Hartford,  Conn.  He  has  an  MSIE 
from  Northeastern,  is  married,  and  has 
three  children. 


1967 


Secretary: 

John  L.  Kilguss 

5  Summershade  Circle 

Piscataway.  NJ 

08854 


Representative: 
Douglas  W  Klauber 
1 0  Alice  Dr 
Nashua,  NH 
03060 


>Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Lawrence  R. 
Gooch  their  third  child,  Erin  Margaret,  last 
August.  Presently,  Gooch  serves  as  en- 
gineering manager  in  the  contract- 
engineering  division  of  the  Farrel  Ma- 
chinery Group  in  Ansonia,  Conn.  He  works 
with  Jim  Haury,  '69;  Fred  Bartkiewicz,  '63; 
and  Bob  Bennett,  '64. 

Charles  Blanchard  has  been  named 
manager  of  the  R&D  department  of  CPC 
Engineering  Corp.  He  also  continues  as 
manager  of  the  environmental  products 
division.  In  addition  to  nationwide  respon- 
sibility for  the  environmental  product  line, 
he  will  be  responsible  for  research  and 
development.  Since  1971,  Blanchard  has 
served  CPC  as  project  engineer,  engineer- 
ing manager  of  the  pneumatic  ejector  divi- 
sion and  manager  of  the  environmental 
products  division.  He  belongs  to  the  ASME 
and  the  New  England  Water  Pollution  Con- 
trol Association.  The  chairman  of  the  Stur- 
bridge  (Mass.)  Water  &  Sewer  Commis- 
sion, he  is  active  as  a  scout  cubmaster,  too. 
.  .  .  John  Cahalen  is  employed  as  superin- 
tendent of  process  engineering  at 
Schweitzer  Division  in  Lee,  Mass. 

Currently,  Richard  Court  is  the  chairman 
of  the  Greater  Danbury  (Conn.)  Section  of 
the  American  Society  for  Quality  Control. 
In  June  of  1 979  he  passed  the  exam  and  is 
now  an  ASQC  certified  quality  engineer. 
.  .  .  Ronald  Dill  has  been  promoted  to  the 
position  of  manager  of  fiber  materials  de- 
velopment and  evaluation  at  Goodyear 
Tire  and  Rubber  in  Akron,  Ohio.  He  has 
been  with  Goodyear  since  graduation. .  .  . 
Dr.  Francis  Gay,  who  received  his  PhD  from 
Northwestern  last  year,  now  serves  as 
supervisor  of  softwear  engineering  at 
Siemens  Corporation  in  Boca  Raton,  Fla. 
He,  his  wife,  Susan,  and  two  children  reside 
in  Coral  Springs.  .  .  .  Stephen  Lak  received 
his  PhD  from  UMass  last  year.  He  is  a 
reliability  engineer  in  the  Ambac  Division  of 
U.T.C.  .  .  .  Jack  Rahaim  holds  a  post  in 


corporate  trainingat  DEC,  Maynard,  Mass. 

Sudhir  Shah  was  appointed  director  of 
engineering  at  Purcell  Associates,  Hartford, 
Conn.  He  is  also  a  vice  president  of  the  firm 
and  has  been  chief  structural  engineer.  In 
his  new  role,  he  will  be  responsible  for  the 
technical  quality  of  all  engineering  projects 
at  Purcell.  Shah,  a  registered  professional 
engineer,  attended  the  University  of 
Gujaret,  where  he  earned  his  BSCE.  He 
holds  an  MSCE  from  WPI.  He  belongs  to 
the  ASCE,  the  National  Society  of  Profes- 
sional Engineering,  and  the  American  Con- 
crete Institute. .  .  .  Giri  Taksali  serves  as  a 
senior  project  engineer  for  the  Kaiser 
Transit  Group  in  Miami,  Fla.  .  .  .  Fred  Tur- 
cotte  is  with  Wood  Structures,  Worcester, 
Vt. 


1968 


Secretary: 
Charles  A.  Griffin 
2901  Municipal  Pier  Rd. 
Shreveport,  LA 
71119 


Representative: 
William  J.  Rasku 
33  Mark  Bradford  Dr 
Holden,  MA 
01520 


►fiorn.  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  H.  Holmes,  a 
son,  David,  on  August  18, 1979. .  .  .toMr. 
and  Mrs.  George  Landauer  a  son,  Brian 
Howard,  on  December  13,  1979.  ...  to 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Raymond  Racine  their  third 
child  and  second  son,  Bryan,  on  March  8, 
1 980.  On  April  1 ,  Racine  was  appointed 
unit  supervisor  for  the  engineering  projects 
procurement  unit  of  Aramco  Services 
Company  in  Houston.  He  is  responsible  for 
contracting  matters  related  to  Aramco's 
engineering  and  construction  activities  in 
Saudi  Arabia.  In  May,  he  graduated  from 
South  Texas  College  of  Law.  In  July,  he  was 
slated  to  take  the  bar  exam. ...  to  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Kenneth  R.  Blaisdell,  Jr.,  their  first 
child,  Michael  Eric,  on  March  20,  1980. 

Arnold  Antak  was  promoted  to  office 
administratorforthe  Boston  office  of  How- 
ard Needles  Tammen  &  Bergendoff,  En- 
gineers-Architects, in  January.  He  is  re- 
sponsible for  personnel  administration, 
budgeting,  insurance,  financial  administra- 
tion and  general  office  administration.  .  .  . 
Donald  Bergstrom  serves  as  assistant  proj- 
ect manager  at  Walsh  Construction  Co.  in 
Longview,  Washington.  Presently,  he  is 
managing  construction  of  a  new  paper 
machine  complex  for  North  Pacific  Paper 
Corp. .  .  .  Major  John  Caprio,  U.S.  Army,  is 
stationed  at  Ft.  Bragg.  He  and  his  wife, 
Susan,  have  three  children.  ...  Dr.  John 
Cryanski,  who  has  a  PhD  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Wisconsin,  is  with  the  Theoretical 
and  Physical  Chemistry  Institute  of  the 
National  Hellenic  Research  Foundation  in 
Athens,  Greece. 

Ronald  Cummings  has  joined  the  law 
firm  of  Delio  and  Montgomery,  New  Ha- 
ven, Conn.  He  holds  an  MS  from  North- 
eastern and  a  law  degree  from  Suffolk. 
Currently,  he  is  a  candidate  for  a  master  of 
law  degree  in  trade  regulation  at  New  York 
University  School  of  Law.  Formerly,  he  was 


associated  with  the  law  firm  of  Zarley, 
McKee,  Thomte,  Vourhees  and  Sease  in 
Des  Moines,  Iowa. .  .  .  Richard  Dubsky  is 
chairman  of  the  departments  of  mathemat- 
ics and  science  at  St.  Albans  School  in 
Washington,  D.C.  Also,  he  serves  as  an 
instructor  of  mathematics  at  the  University 
of  Maryland.  He  is  working  on  his  PhD. .  .  . 
Robert  Gosling  has  been  named  the  1980 
New  Hampshire  Young  Engineer  of  the 
Year.  He  is  a  staff  engineer  in  the  civil 
engineering  department  at  the  Public  Ser- 
vice Company  of  New  Hampshire.  A 
member  of  the  New  Hampshire  Society  of 
Professional  Engineers,  he  is  the  Society's 
current  secretary  and  co-editor  of  its  publi- 
cation, The  Observer.  He  is  a  director  of  the 
Bow  Athletic  Club  and  belongs  to  the  Bow 
Rotary  Club.  He  serves  as  chairman  of  the 
Bow  Industrial  Development  Committee 
and  as  a  member  of  the  WPI  Alumni  Publi- 
cations Committee  and  a  WPI  Alumni  Fund 
volunteer. 

Richard  Hampson  is  a  staff  engineer  at 

IBM  in  Charlotte,  N.C John  Korzick 

owns  Korzick  &  Company  in  Concord, 
Calif. .  .  .  Eugene  Murphy  holds  the  posi- 
tion of  sales  applications  manager  at  Van- 
zetti  Infrared,  Canton,  Mass.  He  is  as- 
sociated with  EIT-Massachusetts  Board  of 
Registration  of  Professional  Engineers.  Last 
year  he  received  his  MSMSE  from  WPI. .  .  . 
William  O'Neil  is  now  a  senior  cost  en- 
gineer for  Gilbert-Commonwealth  As- 
sociates, Inc.,  Oak  Ridge,  Tenn.  .  .  .  Re- 
cently, Ronald  Porter  was  appointed  to  the 
finance  department  faculty  at  Boston  Col- 
lege. He  is  a  real  estate  investment-trustee 
for  hundreds  of  apartments  throughout 
Massachusetts.  His  article,  "Calculating 
Holding  Period  Returns  for  Real  Estate  In- 
vestments," was  published  in  Real  Estate 
Review,  the  journal  of  the  New  York  Uni- 
versity Real  Estate  Institute. 

Frank  Posselt  works  for  DICOA  in 
Savannah, Ga. .  .  .Since graduation,  James 
Powers  has  been  with  Metcalf  &  Eddy.  Last 
year,  he  was  in  Egypt.  He  has  worked  on 
numerous  watersupply  projects  in  the  U.S. 
and  abroad. .  .  .  Continuing  with  Perkin 
Elmer  Corp.,  Arnold  Schwartz  is  now  a 
seniorengineerheadquartered  in  Norwalk, 
Conn.  .  .  .  Formerly  with  Reed  and  Prince, 
Jaffrey,  N.H.,  Richard  Seymour  presently 
serves  as  production  superintendent  at 
New  Hampshire  Ball  Bearings,  Inc.,  Peter- 
borough, N.H.  He  has  an  extensive  back- 
ground in  all  phases  of  design,  production, 
and  plant  engineering.  .  .  .  Greg  Sovas  is 
now  chief  of  the  Bureau  of  Mineral  Re- 
sources in  New  York  state. 


1969 


Secretary: 

Representative 

lames  P.  Atkinson 

Michael  W.Noga 

41  Naples  Rd. 

West  Bare  Hill  Rd 

Brookline,  MA 

Harvard,  MA 

02146 

01451 

>-Born:  to  Mr.and  Mrs.  Gerry  A.  Blodgett 

their  first  child,  Sarah  Katharine,  in  De- 
cember. Gerry  recently  received  his  LLM 
degree  in  patent  and  trade  regulation  law 
from  the  George  Washington  University 
Law  School  and  is  practicing  patent  law  in 
Worcester.  ...  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Andrew 
DiLeo  their  firsi  child,  Maria  Rose.  Andy, 
for  the  last  year,  has  enjoyed  self  employ- 
ment as  a  free-lance  structural  engineer. 

Still  with  Raytheon,  Dennis  Agin  now 
works  as  software  program  manager  for 
the  firm  in  Sudbury,  Mass.  He  and  his  wife 
have  three  children.  .  .  .  Anthony  Baglini 
owns  Turn  of  the  Century  Brass  Co.  in 
Providence,  R.I.  .  .  .  Arthur  Evans  III  serves 
as  corporate  market  manager  at  Goulds 
Pumps,  Inc.,  Seneca  Falls,  N.Y. .  .  .  Andrew 
Heman  works  as  process  engineerat  Union 
Carbide  Corp.,  Jacksonville,  Fla. .  .  .  Curtis 
Kruger  is  a  sales  engineer  at  Dresser  Indus- 
tries, Walnut  Creek,  Calif. .  .  .  Anthony 
Leketa,  assistant  area  engineer  with  the 
U.S.  Army  Corps  of  Engineers,  Ft.  Devens, 
Mass.,  is  currently  responsible  for  contract 
administration  of  over  $40  million  worth  of 
construction  contracts  in  the  New 
England-Plattsburgh,  NY.,  area.  He  is  a 
registered  professional  engineer  in  Mas- 
sachusetts and  belongs  to  the  Society  of 
Military  Engineers. 

Ronald  Lewis  is  with  the  Civil  Engineer 
Corps,  U.S.  Navy,  in  Japan.  As  senior  activ- 
ity civil  engineer,  he  supervises  five  Civil 
Engineer  Corps  officers.  He  is  concerned 
with  facilities  planning  and  programming 
maintenance,  repair,  construction  plan- 
ning, and  budgeting.  Recently,  he  received 
his  MS  from  the  University  of  Florida  and 
was  elected  to  Tau  Beta  Pi.  He  enjoys 
running  and  racquetball. .  .  .  Daniel  Lipcan 
has  designed  and  constructed  a  new  home 
in  Sandwich,  Mass.  He  holds  the  post  of 
plant  manager  at  Boston  Insulated  Wire  & 
Cable  Co.  in  Plymouth.  The  Lipcans  have 
two  children,  Daniel  and  Nancy. .  .  .  Daniel 
Lorusso  is  a  consultant  for  Lorusso  As- 
sociates, Pittsfield,  Mass.  He  is  involved 
with  digital  electronic  design  and  micro- 
processing. An  instrument-rated  pilot,  he 
belongs  to  the  Pittsfield  Airport  Commis- 
sion..  .  .  "Sandy"  Malcolm,  after  ten  years 
in  New  Jersey,  has  returned  to  Mas- 
sachusetts, where  he  is  manager  of  quality 
assurance  for  Johnson  and  Johnson  in 
Weymouth.  He  is  a  member  of  ACS  and 
ASQC. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1980  /  35 


Chris  Masklee  is  an  associate  materials 
and  research  engineer  for  the  state  of 
California  in  Sacramento.  He  is  also  a  real 
estate  broker. .  .  .  Robert  Mayer  holds  the 
post  of  chief  engineer,  electronics,  for  Con- 
trol Products  Division,  Hackettstown,  N.J. 
.  .  .Spare  time  activities  for  Tom  McAuliffe 
include  coaching  Little  League  baseball  and 
soccer,  advising  a  church  youth  group,  and 
engaging  in  marriage  encounters.  An  area 
supervisor  in  production  fordu  Pont  near 
Houston,  he  has  29  people  reporting  to 
him.  He  supervises  operation  of  utility  sup- 
ply facilities  and  sulfuric  acid  production 
facilities.  The  McAuliffes  have  two 
children. 

Edward  Mierzejewski  works  as  a  trans- 
portation planning  consultant  for  Chase, 
Rosen  &  Wallace,  Inc.,  Alexandria,  Va.  He 
is  active  in  church  groups  and  in  various 
professional  societies.  .  .  .  Roger  Miles 
holds  the  post  of  president  of  Doten  Man- 
agement Corp.,  Plymouth,  Mass.  The  firm 
manages  nine  weekly  newspapers  and  a 
tourist  publication,  and  also  does  commer- 
cial printing.  Not  long  ago,  Miles  started  a 
new  publication  in  Maine.  .  .  .  Eric  Nicker- 
son  is  presently  employed  as  a  production 
engineering  manager  at  Teradyne  Compo- 
nents, Nashua,  N.H.,  where  he  is  responsi- 
ble for  all  products  shipped  out  of  the  plant. 
For  two  years,  he  helped  develop  a  new 
connector  product  line  at  Texas  Instru- 
ments. He  has  built  a  new  house  and  is 
landlord  for  two  houses  in  Connecticut. .  .  . 
Continuing  with  Stone  &  Webster,  Michael 
Noga  directs  the  development  of  equip- 
ment and  plant  arrangements  for  fossil 
fired  and  advanced  technologies  electric 
generating  plants.  He  and  his  wife  de- 
signed and  subcontracted  the  construction 
of  their  house  in  Harvard,  Mass.  They  have 
two  children. 

Paul  Norkevicius  serves  as  a  product 
development  engineer  at  Ford  Motor  Co., 
Dearborn,  Mich.  He  is  responsible  for  a 
portion  of  the  development  and  certifica- 
tion testing  of  passenger  car  tires.  . . . 
Michael  Nowak  is  a  chemist  at  Decotone  in 
Westminster,  Mass. .  .  .  Joel  O'Rourke 
works  as  a  district  education  specialist  at 
Computer  Sciences  Corp.,  Rosslyn,  Va.  .  .  . 
John  Paolillo  holds  the  position  of  senior 
associate  programmer  at  IBM  in  Endicott, 
N.Y. .  .  .  Still  with  United  Illuminating  Co., 
R.  Craig  Pastore  applies  protective  relaying 
on  the  transmission  and  distribution  sys- 
tems for  an  electric  utility.  He  is  a  golfer  and 
bowler  and  is  located  in  Guilford,  Conn. .  .  . 
Mahendra  Patel  enjoys  gardening  and 
every  summer  grows  some  vegetables 
from  his  native  India.  He  likes  photogra- 
phy, too.  With  Boston  Edison  since  1969, 
he  is  involved  with  power  plant  design  and 
construction.  A  registered  professional  en- 
gineer, Massachusetts,  he  also  is  an  active 
member  of  the  ASME,  and  served  on  the 
Boston  section  executive  committee  as 
chairman.  Presently,  he  is  committee 
chairman  for  honors  and  awards,  ASME, 
Region  I.  .  .  .  Running,  car  rallies,  and  pho- 

36  /  Summer  1980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


tography  are  just  a  few  of  Al  Pauly's  hob- 
bies. He  is  a  senior  research  engineer  at 
Michelin  America's  Research  &  Develop- 
ment Corp.,  Greenville,  S.C.  The  Paulys  are 
the  parents  of  Benjamin  and  Justin. 

Andy  Perreault,  a  nuclear  engineer  at 
Knolls  Atomic  Power  Lab.,  has  been  active 
with  the  American  Nuclear  Society  at- 
tempting to  educate  the  public  on  the 
benefits  of  nuclear  power.  At  Knolls  he 
helps  to  ensure  that  the  nuclear  reactors 
the  lab  designs,  and  sometimes  operates, 
for  the  Naval  Reactors  branch  of  the  DOE, 
are  functioning  properly.  He  is  a  profes- 
sional engineer.  His  wife  is  pursuing  an 
MBA  at  RPI. .  .  .  Stephen  Phillips  continues 
as  the  owner  of  Phillips  Associates,  Boston, 
which  is  concerned  with  graphic  and  indus- 
trial design  and  communications,  as  well  as 
product  design  and  development.  Re- 
cently, he's  been  developing  toys  and 
games  and  plans  to  form  a  product  devel- 
opment company.  He  belongs  to  the  Art 
Directors  Club  of  Boston.  .  .  .  David  Piet- 
raszewski  is  still  with  the  U.S.  Coast  Guard 
Research  &  Development  Center  in  Gro- 
ton,  Conn.,  where  he  works  on  instrumen- 
tation and  data  communications  system 
design  and  development.  He  was  named 
the  recipient  of  an  award  for  outstanding 
contributions  to  the  Center.  Presently,  he  is 
designing  a  heat  efficient  house  for  his 
family.  .  . .  Donald  Rapp  continues  at  du 
Pont  and  is  now  located  in  Lexington,  Ky., 
where  he  is  a  sales  and  technical  repre- 
sentative in  explosives.  He  and  his  wife, 
Elaine,  have  two  children,  Bryan  and  Derek. 

Bidyut  Rath  is  an  associate  at  BD/ 
International  in  Houston. .  .  .  Robert  Reidy, 
a  senior  application  engineer  at 
Megatherm,  East  Providence,  R.I.,  works 
closely  with  consulting  engineers  and  ar- 
chitects on  commercial  and  industrial  proj- 
ects involving  building  load  management 
in  conjunction  with  thermal  storage  de- 
signs. "Play  a  lot  of  golf,  but  can't  shoot  my 
age  yet!"  Reidy  belongs  to  the  Providence 
Engineering  Society  and  the  ASME.  .  .  . 
James  Richey  is  employed  as  manager  of 
power  supply  design  engineering  at  Data 
General,  Westboro,  Mass.  He  has  an  an- 
tique clock  business,  "The  Olde  Tyme 
Shoppe,"  where  he  buys,  sells,  and  repairs 
antique  clocks.  The  Richeys  have  a  baby 
son,  James  Jacob.  .  .  .  Ronald  Roberts,  still 
with  Western  Electric,  Inc.,  presently  serves 
as  senior  test  development  engineer  in 
North  Andover,  Mass.  As  engineering 
group  leader  he  is  responsible  for  develop- 
ment of  manufacturing  tests  on  data  and 
switching  communication  systems.  He  has 
an  MS  from  Northeastern  and  is  an  instruc- 
tor at  Northern  Essex  Community  College. 
Also,  he  is  involved  with  Resource  Parents 
for  Boston  Children's  Hospital  Devel- 
opmental Evaluation  Clinic. 


Charles  Robinson,  Jr.,  is  manager  of 
operational  planning  for  customer  services 
at  Foxboro  (Mass.)  Company.  A  member 
of  the  Foxboro  Soccer  Association,  he  also 
coaches  and  referees  local  soccer  teams.  He 
enjoys  cross  country  skiing,  tennis,  and 
bikes  to  work  every  day.  ...  A  senior 
engineer  at  Raytheon-Missile  Systems  Di- 
vision in  Bedford,  Mass.,  Rene  Roy  is  re- 
sponsible for  missile  borne  computer  pro- 
gramming on  the  Patriot  missile  system,  as 
well  as  the  automatic  test  software.  The 
Roys  have  three  sons.  .  .  .  Robert  Scott, 
director  of  planning  for  the  City  of  Virginia 
Beach,  Va.,  coordinates  the  physical  devel- 
opment of  the  city,  "The  fastest  growing 
city  on  the  East  Coast."  .  .  .  Steve  Selinger 
is  senior  design  engineer,  chassis,  at  Volks- 
wagen of  America  in  Warren,  Mich.  He  has 
design  and  release  responsibility  for  sus- 
pensions and  exhaust  systems  on  U.S.  built 
Rabbits.  For  seven  years  he  has  been  in- 
volved with  racing  sports  cars.  He  likes 
photography  and  amateur  radio.  .  .  .  Con- 
tinuing with  Polaroid,  Joseph  Senecal  does 
chemical  process  R&D  as  required  to  trans- 
form laboratory  procedures  to  viable  full 
scale  systems.  He  lives  in  Worcester  and 
commutes  to  Polaroid  in  Cambridge  by 
train.  While  commuting,  he  enjoys  reading 
serious  fiction.  He  has  started  a  small  wine 
tasting  group. 

Vinubhai  Shah  works  as  senior  mechan- 
ical engineer  at  Commonwealth  As- 
sociates, Jackson,  Mich.,  where  he  is  con- 
cerned with  nuclear  and  non-nuclear  pip- 
ing system  analysis.  .  .  .  While  not  on  duty 
as  a  staff  engineer  at  IBM  in  Endicott,  N.Y., 
Barry  Shiffrin  may  be  found  developing 
pictures  in  his  recently  finished  dark  room. 
He  takes  pictures  and  makes  color  prints 
from  the  slides.  Currently,  he  is  turning  the 
basement  into  a  family  room  area,  as  well 
as  pursuing  his  interest  in  magic.  .  .  .  Tom 
Starr  (Gwazdauskas)  holds  the  post  of 
technology  manager  of  nuclear  processes 
at  Helix  Process  Systems  in  Westboro, 
Mass.  He  manages  the  process  design  ef- 
fort for  pollution  control  systems  for  nu- 
clear power  plants.  In  the  community,  he  is 
assistant  soccer  coach  for  Southboro  Youth 
Soccer  and  president  of  the  neighborhood 
civic  association.  Also,  he  is  a  local  section 
officer  of  AICHE. .  .    Robert  Stessel  is  living 
on  board  a  1910  classic  boat  that  he  is 
rebuilding  in  Beverly,  Mass.  Originally,  the 
boat  was  a  Harbor  Ferry  from  Marblehead. 
In  1978,  Stessel  survived  the  blizzard 
aboard  the  "Kelpie"  in  Beverly  Harbor.  A 
technical  consultant  to  the  Northeast  Surf 
Patrol,  he  occasionally  engages  in  search 
and  rescue  with  the  group.  He  belongs  to 
the  National  Marine  Electronics  Associa- 
tion. He  is  the  proprietor  of  Advanced 
Marine  Electronics  in  Beverly. 

Still  with  Bechtel,  Martin  Surabian  pres- 
ently supervises  mechanical  engineers  in 
the  design  of  mechanical  systems  for 
nuclear-coal  power  plants.  He  is  located  in 
Gaithersburg,  Md.,  and  serves  as  a  church 
trustee  and  as  a  baseball  and  football 


- 


coach. .  .  .  John  Taylor  belongs  to  the 
Technical  Association  of  the  Pulp  and  Paper 
Industry,  which  he  serves  as  a  member  of 
the  coating  process  committee.  He  is  a 
member  of  the  Research  Committee  at  the 
University  of  Maine.  His  hobbies  include 
jogging,  photography,  and  building  HO 
scale  train  layouts.  He  continues  as  a  group 
leader  in  coating  process  development  at 

St.  Regis  Paper  Co.,  West  Nyack,  N.Y 

John  Thompson,  Jr.,  holds  the  post  of  vice 
president  of  finance  and  chief  financial 
officer  at  SW  Ind/Stowe  Woodward  Co.  in 
Newton,  Mass.  The  Thompsons  have  three 
children  and  reside  in  Wellesley.  .  .  . 
Charles  Trent  serves  as  technical  services 
manager  at  Crompton  &  Knowles  Corp., 
Reading,  PA.  One  of  his  duties  is  to  estab- 
lish procedures  and  specifications  for  prod- 
ucts. He  introduced  computer  color  control 
for  textile  dyes.  Trent  has  an  MBA  from 
Lehigh  and  belongs  to  the  American  Asso- 
ciation of  Textile  Chemists  and  Colorists 
and  the  American  Chemical  Society. .  .  . 
Kimball  Watson  has  been  designing  and 
building  hydrofoil  sailboats.  A  staff  en- 
gineer at  IBM  in  Essex  Junction,  Vt,  he  is 
concerned  with  reliability  analysis  of  inte- 
grated circuits. .  .  .  Phillip  Wilsey,  Jr.,  en- 
joys a  wide  variety  of  outdoor  activities: 
hiking,  canoeing,  kayaking,  cross  country 
skiing,  and  snowshoeing.  Since  1971,  he 
has  been  with  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft, 
East  Hartford,  Conn.,  where  currently  he  is 
a  product  support  engineer.  His  present 
responsibilities  include  monitoring  field 
problems  in  a  high  pressure  compressor 
and  using  the  data  to  provide  customer 
input  to  new  engine  design  or  proposed 
modifications.  The  Wilseys  have  three  chil- 
dren and  reside  in  Newington,  Conn.  .  .  . 
Steven  Zieve  plays  golf  and  is  a  life  master 
in  bridge.  He  is  a  programmer-analyst  for 
the  Hartford  (Conn.)  Insurance  Group,  for 
which  he  provides  support  for  operations 
research  and  property  casualty  actuarial 
departments. 


1970 


Secretary: 

F.  David  Ploss  III 

208  St  Nicholas  Ave 

Worcester,  MA 

01606 


Representative 
Garrett  0.  Graham 
150BrooksideRd. 
Needham,  MA 
02194 


^Married:  Dr.  Lee  C.  Malbon  and  Ann  M. 

Murphy  in  Boston,  Massachusetts,  on  April 
11,1 980.  The  bride  graduated  from  Salem 
State  College  and  received  a  master's  de- 
gree in  English  from  Boston  College.  She  is 
an  English  teacher  at  Maiden  Senior  High 
School.  The  groom  received  a  double  mas- 
ter's degree  in  physics  and  education  and  a 
doctorate  in  education  from  Boston  Col- 
lege. He  serves  as  vice  principal  of  Bur- 
rillville  (Rl)  Regional  High  School  and  also 
teaches  computer  science  at  Bentley  Col- 
lege, Waltham,  Mass. 


Richard  Abrams  holds  the  post  of  direc- 
tor of  nuclear  product  development  at 
Helix  Systems  in  Westboro,  Mass.  .  .  .  Ber- 
nard Belouin  teaches  at  Mt.  Greylock  Re- 
gional High  School,  Williamstown,  Mass. 
...  Dr.  Mark  Brown,  who  has  a  PhD  from 
the  University  of  Minnesota,  is  a  senior 
research  engineer  at  American  Can  Co., 
Neenah,  Wisconsin. .  .  .  John  Cattel  is  now 
project  manager  at  Riley  Stoker  Corp. , 
Worcester..  .  .  Donald  Colangelo  works  as 
a  consultant  for  Stone  &  Webster  Man- 
agement Consultants  in  New  York  City. .  .  . 
Dom  Forcella  currently  serves  as  executive 
director  of  the  Council  on  Environmental 
Quality  at  the  state  office  building  in 
Hartford,  Conn. .  .  .  Frank  Gardner  is  em- 
ployed as  a  senior  plant  engineer  at  Nuclear 
Energy  Services  in  Danbury,  Conn. .  .  . 
Robert  Greenwald  III  is  a  design  engineer  at 
Auditronics,  Inc.,  Memphis,  Tenn. 

Stephen  Johnson  has  been  promoted  to 
group  supervisor  of  the  Chemical  Engineer- 
ing Section  at  the  Babcock  &  Wilcox  Co. 
Alliance  (OH)  Research  Center.  His  group 
(combustion  technology)  is  researching  the 
clean  combustion  of  coal  in  utility  and 
industrial  steam  generators.  He  joined  the 
firm  in  1 976  as  a  research  engineer  and  has 
been  a  senior  research  engineer  since  1978. 
Earlier,  he  had  been  with  Riley  Stoker 
Corp.,  Worcester. 

The  Boston  section  of  the  American  So- 
ciety for  Quality  Control  (ASQC)  has 
elected  Kent  Lawson  of  Norwood,  Mass., 
its  publicity  chairman  for  1980.  He  will 
serve  as  a  member  of  the  executive  com- 
mittee and  will  be  responsible  for  the 
monthly  publicity  in  the  national  Quality 
Progress  Magazine,  the  Engineering 
Societies  of  New  England  Journal,  News- 
letter, the  meeting  notices,  and  the  media 
exposure  campaign.  He  is  a  senior  quality 
engineer  for  the  new  products  develop- 
ment group  of  the  Polaroid  Corp.,  Cam- 
bridge. Also,  he  is  vice  president  of  the 
board  of  directors  of  the  Nassau  Gardens 
Cooperative  Housing  Association,  Inc.,  of 
Norwood,  a  senior  member  of  ASQC,  a 
member  of  the  ASME  and  an  officer  of  the 
Polaroid  bowling  league.  He  has  an  MS 
from  Northeastern.  The  ASQC  has  over 
32,000  members  nationwide.  It  is  a  society 
of  professionals  engaged  in  the  manage- 
ment, engineering,  and  scientific  aspects  of 
quality  and  reliability.  The  Boston  section, 
founded  in  1945,  is  the  second  largest  with 
nearly  900  members. 

Paul  Lee  continues  as  principal  engineer 
at  Lockheed  Electronics  Co.  in  Plainfield, 
N.J.,  where  he  and  his  wife,  Lily,  reside. .  .  . 
Bradford  Myrick  works  as  a  project  en- 
gineer at  Ingersoll-Rand  Co.,  Allentown, 
Pa. .  .  .  Girish  Patel  is  employed  as  a  struc- 
tural engineer  at  Bechtel  Power  Corp., 


Gaithersburg,  Md.  .  .  .  John  Sztuka,  Jr., 
holds  the  post  of  product  supervisor  at 
Hercules,  Inc.,  Wilmington,  Delaware.  He 
has  an  MBA  from  Western  Michigan  Uni- 
versity. .  .    Philip  Warren  was  recently 
promoted  to  production  manager-finishing 
for  the  Graphic  Products  Division  of 
Nashua  Corporation  in  Merrimack,  N.H. 
.  .  .  Louis  Zitnay  is  an  environmental  en- 
gineer at  IBM  Corp.,  Rochester,  Minn. 


1971         REUNION 


OCTOBER  3-5 


Secretary: 
Vincent T  Pace 
4707  Apple  Lane 
WestDeptford.NJ 
08066 


^■Married:  Thomas  A.  Pandolfi  and  Pat 
Hendrix  on  March  29, 1 980.  The  groom  is  a 
senior  software  engineer.  .  .  .  Frank  W. 
Steinerand  Elizabeth  C.  Poulin,  73,  in 
Montego  Bay,  Jamaica  on  April  9,  1980. 
Beth  is  a  project  engineer  for  Foster-Miller 
Associates  in  Waltham,  Mass. 

*Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Carlton  E.  Cruff 
theirfirst  child,  a  daughter,  Melanie  Au- 
gusta, on  February  17,  1980. ...  to  Nancy 
and  Ben  Katcoff  a  daughter,  Rebecca 
Suzanne,  on  March  1 6, 1 980.  The  Katcoffs 
also  have  a  son,  Gregory,  2.  ...  to  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Robert  Trachimowicz  a  son,  Matthew 
Neil,  on  July  9,  1979.  Matthew  joins 
brother  Timothy,  3.  Trachimowicz  was  re- 
cently promoted  to  resident  engineer  for 
EBASCO  Services,  Inc. .  .  .  toJacquelynand 
UrmasVolkeason,  Erik,  on  April  11, 1980. 

Don  Baron  serves  as  industrial  sales 
manager  at  Logetronics,  Inc.,  Springfield, 
Va.  He  and  his  wife  live  in  Alexandria.  .  .  . 
Russ  Batson  of  Wells,  Me.,  builds  custom 
designed,  solar-heated  homes  through 
Green  Mountain  Homes  of  Royalton,  Vt., 
James  Kachadorian,  '61,  president. .  .  . 
Avanish  Bhagat  holds  the  position  of  man- 
aging director  at  Corrosion  Control  Ser- 
vices, Ltd.,  Bombay,  India.  He  and  his  wife, 
Minal,  have  one  child. .  .  .  Richard  duFosse 
is  currently  employed  as  a  telecommunica- 
tions analyst  at  Data  General  Corp., 
Westboro,  Mass.  The  duFosses  and  their 
two  children  live  in  Northboro.  .  .  .  Robert 
Gazda  is  vice  president  at  K&W  Machine  & 
Tool  in  Springfield,  Mass.  .  .  .  Alan  Gradet 
works  as  a  senior  environmental  engineer 
at  ERT  in  Houston,  Texas. 

Paul  Grady  teaches  in  Waltham,  Mass. 
.  .  .  John  Griffin  holds  the  post  of  district 
manager  of  real  estate  operations  at  New 
England  Telephone,  Boston.  .  .  .  Continu- 
ing with  Riley  Stoker  Corp.,  William  Hel- 
liwell,  Jr.,  is  now  district  service  manager  in 
Northglenn,  Colo.  He  and  his  wife  live  in 
Westminster.  He  has  an  MBA  from  the 
University  of  Denver.  .  .  .  Louis  Howayeck 
serves  as  system  effectiveness  manager  at 
Stencel  Aero  Engineering  Corp.  in  Arden, 
N.C. 


The  WPI Journal  /  Summer  1980/37 


Bruce  Leffingwell  is  a  market  manager  at 
Olin  Corp.,  Stamford,  Conn. .  .  .  John  Lind 
works  as  a  field  engineer  at  General  Tele- 
phone Co.,  Sumter,  S.C. ...  A  senior  sales 
engineer  at  Westinghouse,  El  Monte, 
Calif.,  Richard  Pace  is  also  studying  for  his 
MBA  from  the  University  of  Redlands.  The 
Paces  and  their  three  children  reside  in 
Diamond  Bar.  .  .  .  Gerald  Parrott  has  been 
promoted  to  the  post  of  chief  engineer  at 
Rock  of  Ages  Corp. ,  Barre,  Vt.  He  is  respon- 
sible for  all  phases  of  engineering  within 
the  Barre  company  and  all  of  its  sub- 
sidiaries. He  joined  the  Graniteville  firm  in 
1 976  as  a  staff  engineer  and  has  performed 
in  all  functions  of  the  engineering  depart- 
ment since  that  time.  He  has  taken  numer- 
ous engineering  and  management  courses 
and  he  is  a  member  of  the  Mechanical 
Engineering  Honor  Society.  Previously,  he 
was  with  Westinghouse. 

Abbas  Salim  is  a  start  engineer  tor  Mar- 
tin Marietta  in  Denver,  Colo.  Presently,  he 
is  responsible  for  power  distribution  and 
control  for  a  350  KW  solar  power  plant  for 
Saudi  Arabia.  He,  his  wifeZubeda,  and  two 
children  live  in  Littleton. .  .  .  Francis  Scricco 
holds  the  post  of  manager  of  strategy 
development  in  the  consumer  products 
and  services  sector  at  GE  in  Fairfield,  Conn. 
.  .  .  Daniel  Smith  works  for  Morgan  Con- 
struction in  Worcester.  .  .  .  David  Winer  is 
employed  as  a  senior  engineer  at  Orion 
Research,  Inc.,  Cambridge,  Mass. 


1972 


Secretary: 

John  A  Woodward 

101  Putnam  St. 

Orange,  MA 

01364 


Representative 

Lesley  E  Small  Zorabedlan 

16  Parkview  Rd 

Reading,  MA 

01867 


^■Married:  Theodore  A.  Martin  and  Cindy 
Jarvenpaa  on  April  12, 1980,  in  Westmin- 
ster, Massachusetts.  The  bride  graduated 
from  Mount  Wachusett  Community  Col- 
lege and  was  employed  at  Central  Veteri- 
nary Supply  of  Westminster.  Her  husband 
is  with  MacDermid,  Inc.,  of  Connecticut. 

>Bom:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  William  Kamb  a 
daughter,  recently.  Kamb  is  a  class  agent. 
...  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  T.  Richard  Price  a  son, 
Jamie,  on  March  3,  1980.  Sister  Sheila  is 
eight. 

Gary  Dunkleberger  is  an  IBM  systems 
programming  manager  at  Aerospace  Cor- 
poration in  El  Segundo,  Calif.  ...  In  June, 
Jim  Hall  was  appointed  director  of  market- 
ing, Construction  Products  Division,  at 
Norton  Company  in  Gainesville,  Ga.  Previ- 
ously, he  was  with  the  Safety  Products 
Division  in  Cranston,  R.I.  .  .  .  Paul  Lavigne 
was  named  plant  superintendent  for  the 
Roller  Chain  Division  of  Rexnord,  Inc., 
Worcester,  which  he  joined  last  year  as 
manager  of  industrial  engineering.  He  be- 
longs to  the  American  Production  and  In- 
ventory Control  Society  and  the  Society  of 
Manufacturing  Engineers. 

38  /  Summer  1980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


Richard  Logan,  CPA,  is  president  of 
Positron  Computer  Corp.,  Ashland,  Mass. 
He  is  concerned  with  EDP  consulting,  busi- 
ness management  consulting,  and  business 
software. .  .  .  Richard  Podolny  has  been 
certified  as  a  Rolfer  by  the  Rolf  Institute  of 
Boulder,  Colo. .  .  .  Michael  Rapport  has 
been  promoted  to  actuarial  associate  in  the 
Penn  Mutual  Life  Insurance  Company's 
pension  department.  He  is  responsible  for 
assisting  with  actuarial  certifications  of  de- 
fined benefit  pension  plans,  reviewing  pen- 
sion valuation  reports,  and  developing  ac- 
tuarial procedures.  With  the  company  since 
1 978,  Rapport  is  an  associate  of  the  Society 
of  Actuaries,  a  member  of  the  American 
Academy  of  Actuaries,  and  the  Philadel- 
phia Actuaries  Club. 

James  Tarpey  was  promoted  to  manager 
of  transportation  for  Orange-Rockland 
Utilities  of  Pearl  River,  N.Y.  He  is  in  charge 
of  the  company's  transportation  policies 
and  oversees  the  selection  and  mainte- 
nance of  passenger  vehicles,  trucks,  and 
other  construction  equipment.  In  1972,  he 
started  work  as  an  assistant  electrical  en- 
gineer at  the  firm.  In  1 975,  he  was  named 
general  supervisor  of  line  technical  services, 
and  in  1979,  he  was  promoted  to  eastern 
division  assistant  superintendent  of  over- 
head lines.  He  is  a  registered  professional 
engineer  in  New  York,  and  has  a  degree 
from  New  Jersey  Institute  of  Technology  in 
Newark. 

Thomas  Tracy  has  been  elected  to  a 
three-year  term  on  the  Uxbridge  (Mass.) 
School  Committee.  Recently,  he  was  pro- 
moted to  marketing  engineer  in  the  pro- 
posal group  at  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston.  A 
life-long  resident  of  Uxbridge,  Tracy  be- 
longs to  the  Uxbridge  Historical  Society,  as 
does  his  wife.  He  is  an  assistant  scoutmas- 
ter, a  member  of  Phi  Kappa  Theta,  and 
serves  as  the  editor  of  the  national  alumni 
newspaper,  the  Temple.  Tracy,  who  has  a 
master's  degree  from  Northeastern,  be- 
lieves that  inflation  is  the  most  serious 
problem  facing  schools  in  the  1980's.  He 
has  two  children,  Joanne,  6,  and  Michael, 
3.  .  .  .  Richard  Wallace  is  employed  as  a 
senior  civil  engineer  at  Daniel  Construction 
Company,  Greenville,  S.C.  He,  his  wife, 
Diana,  and  child  live  in  Greer. 


1973 


Secretary 

Representative 

Jay  J.  Schnltzer 

Robert  E  Akie 

322  St,  Paul  St. 

33-8  Sheridan  Dr 

Apt.  #3 

Shrewsbury,  MA 

Brookline,  MA 

01545 

02146 

^■Married:  Gene  L.  Franke  and  Arlene  L. 
Bremer  on  September  22,  1 979.  The  bride 
attended  Essex  Community  College  and  is 
a  credit  investigator  for  First  National  Bank 
of  Maryland.  The  groom  is  a  metallurgist 
and  project  engineer  at  the  David  W.Taylor 
Naval  Ship  R&D  Center  in  Annapolis.  The 
couple  resides  in  Severna  Park.  .  .  .  Robert 
J.  Nacheman  and  Jessica  R.  Eth  in  Teaneck, 
New  Jersey,  on  May  25,  1980.  Mrs. 
Nacheman  graduated  from  the  University 
of  Pennsylvania  and  holds  a  master's  de- 
gree from  Columbia.  She  specializes  in 
product  safety  and  public  health  at  Mobil. 
Her  husband  is  a  project  engineer  with  Lev 
Zetlin  Associates,  Inc.,  of  New  York.  He  is 
studying  for  his  master's  degree  in  struc- 
tural engineering  at  City  College  of  the  City 
University. 

>Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Timothy  A. 
French  their  first  son,  Timothy  John,  on 
April  3,  1980.  Tim  graduated  from  New 
England  School  of  Law  with  a  Juris  Doctor 
degree  in  June.  He  will  join  the  Boston 
patent  law  firm  of  Fish  &  Richardson  as  an 
associate.  ...  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  William  E. 
Henries  a  second  daughter,  Elizabeth  Ann, 
on  March  21,  1980.  Henries  has  a  new  job 
as  senior  structural  engineer  with  Yankee 
Atomic  Electric  Co.,  Westboro,  Mass. 

Robert  Akie  works  as  a  sales  engineer  at 
Pat  Jenks  Assoc,  Wakefield,  Mass. .  .  . 
Dennis  Beliveau  is  involved  with  produc- 
tion scheduling  and  analysis  in  GE's  Gas 
Turbine  Division,  Schenectady,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
Jeffrey  Blaisdell  holds  the  position  of  proj- 
ect manager  at  George  B.  H.  Macomber 
Company  (builders),  Boston,  Mass.  The 
firm  is  concerned  with  large  construction  in 
the  New  England  area.  .  .  .  With  Control 
Module,  Inc.,  for  over  four  years,  Chris 
Broders  was  recently  promoted  to  chief 
engineer.  He  is  located  in  Enfield,  Conn. .  .  . 
Richard  Brontoli  writes:  "Enjoying  many 
large  construction  projects  throughout 
Germany."  He  is  still  stationed  at 
Baumholder  where  he  is  a  commander  for  B 
Company.  .  .  .  Paul  Brown,  Jr.,  is  general 
foreman  of  mechanical  maintenance  at 
RSRCorp.,  Dallas,  Texas.  .  .  .  Michael  De- 
Collibus  currently  holds  the  post  of  sales 
manager  at  Dynamac,  Inc.,  Marlboro, 
Mass.  He,  his  wife,  Cheryl,  and  two  chil- 
dren reside  in  Nashua,  N.H. 


■iC 


Richard  Filippetti,  along  with  several 
other  family  members,  won  a  total  of 
$24,505  on  the  television  game  show 
"Family  Feud,"  which  was  aired  in  May.  He 
participated  in  the  California-based  show 
with  his  sister,  Frances  Morast,  and  her 
husband,  and  another  sister,  Nancy  Schar- 
land,  and  herhusband.  Thefamily  was  one 
of  150,000  families  who  responded  to  a 
recruitment  drive  by  the  show's  producers 
a  year  ago.  Only  21  families  from  New 
England  were  selected  to  compete.  Filip- 
petti says  his  family  taped  seven  shows: 
two  on  one  day  and  five  on  another.  "We 
were  tired.  We  had  only  ten  minutes  to 
relax  and  change  clothes  between  tap- 
ings."  The  group  discovered  it  was  consid- 
erably easier  answering  questions  in  front 
of  the  TV  set  at  home  instead  of  in  front  of 
the  camera.  "I  developed  cramps  from 
nerves,"  Filippetti  confides. 

All  expenses  for  the  family,  including 
plane  fare  to  Hollywood,  meals,  and  hotel 
accommodations  were  paid  for  by  the 
show's  producers.  Dick,  a  manufacturing 
manager  at  Goddard  Valve  Corp.,  Worces- 
ter, says,  "I  expect  to  be  hearing  from  the 
IRS  shortly." 

Filippetti  has  two  other  news  items:  his 
second  child,  Gregory  Michael,  was  born 
on  March  2nd;  and  he  was  recently  pro- 
moted to  varsity  status  in  the  Collegiate 
Basketball  Officials  Association. 

Presently,  Michael  Green baum  is  a  pat- 
ent attorney  with  Wigman  &  Cohen  in 
Arlington,  Va.  .  .  .  George  Harris  is  now  a 
senior  support  engineer  with  Gould- 
Modicon,  a  post  he  has  held  since  April. .  .  . 
Ed  Jamro  has  been  elected  chairman  of  the 
New  Jersey  Chamber  of  Commerce  South 
Jersey  Environmental  Committee.  Ed  was 
the  main  force  behind  the  organization  of 
the  committee  which  consists  of  environ- 
mental representatives  from  all  major  oil 
and  chemical  companies  located  in  the 
southern  New  Jersey  area.  .  .  .  Subhash 
Johar  serves  as  a  senior  engineer  at  Bechtel 
Corp.,  San  Francisco,  Calif.  .  .  .  Charles 
Kavanagh  works  as  a  project  coordinator  at 
Value  Line  Construction  Corp.,  Hun- 
tington, N.Y.  .  .  .  Kenneth  Makowski  is 
employed  as  a  training  engineer  at  the 
Power  Authority,  State  of  New  York,  New 
York  City.  He  resides  in  Stamford,  Conn. 

During  his  recent  travels  as  national  pres- 
ident of  the  ASME,  Prof.  Donald  Zwiep  met 
with  Firdosh  Mehta  in  Edmonton,  Canada. 
.  .  .  Bruce  and  Allison  Huse  Nunn  are 
currently  located  in  the  state  of 
Washington,  where  Bruce  serves  as  assist- 
ant superintendent  for  the  Boise  Cascade 
pulp  mill  in  West  Tacoma.  The  Nunns  and 
their  two  children  moved  to  Gig  Harbor 
right  after  Christmas.  They  write:  "We're 
enjoying  the  Northwest  scenery.  We  sur- 
vived having  our  moving  van  overturn  en 
route  to  Washington  and  a  month's  motel 
stay  with  two  preschoolers."  Allison  keeps 
busy  with  the  children  and  their  animals. 
She  and  Bruce  would  welcome  a  visit  or 
note  from  alumni  passing  through  the  area. 


.  .  .  Maryann  Bagdis  Pace  holds  the  post  of 
senior  consultant  at  Peat,  Marwick  and 
Mitchell  in  Dallas,  Texas.  She  works  in  the 
energy  regulatory  group  for  the  oil  and  gas 
industry,  and  has  done  some  independent 
consulting. .  .  . 

James  Risotti  was  recently  awarded  his 
MBA  under  the  executive  MBA  program 
conducted  by  the  Suffolk  University 
Graduate  School  of  Administration.  He  be- 
longs to  Delta  Mu  Delta  National  Honor 
Society  and  is  employed  at  GE  in  Lynn, 
Mass.  The  executive  program  is  offered 
exclusively  on  Saturdays  for  those  in  middle 
or  upper  level  management  positions. .  .  . 
Peter  Runyon  works  as  a  technical  training 
instructor  for  GE  in  Schenectady.  He  is 
associated  with  the  GE  Field  Engineering 
Development  Center.  ...  AM  Shafigh 
serves  as  an  assistant  professor  at  the  Col- 
lege of  Computer  in  Tehran,  Iran. .  .  .  Ken 
Therrien  holds  the  position  of  service  en- 
gineer at  Hamilton  Standard,  Windsor 
Locks,  Conn. .  .  .  Presently,  Tom  and  Kathy 
Zawislak  Dagostino  are  employed  by  Tek- 
tronix in  Beaverton,  Oregon.  Tom  is  a 
market  segment  manager  doing  market 
research  and  Kathy  is  a  software  engineer 
designing  the  operating  system  for  a  real- 
time debugging  option  for  a  microproces- 
sor development  aid.  They  are  both  class 
agents. 


1974 


Representative: 
David  G  Lapre 
P.O.  Box  384 
Tunkhannock,  PA 
18657 


Secretary: 
James  F.  Rubino 
18  Landings  Way 
Avon  Lake,  OH 
44012 

^Married:  Mark  E.  Ostergren  and  Charla  J. 
Cottone  of  Marion,  Illinois  on  May  19, 
1 979.  Mrs.  Ostergren  serves  as  supervisor 
of  Southern  Illinois  Christian  Academy.  Her 
husband  is  with  Babcock  &  Wilcox.  .  .  . 
Michael  W.  Pontbriand  and  Cynthia  D. 
Stafford  in  Billings,  Montana.  The  bride 
graduated  from  Woodlawn  High  School  in 
Baton  Rouge,  La.  She  is  employed  at  Busch 
Gardens  in  Tampa,  Fla.  The  groom  works 
for  Badger  Company  in  Tampa.  .  .  .  Jay  K. 
Thayer  and  Pauline  Blois  in  Westboro, 
Massachusetts,  on  February  2,  1980.  Mrs. 
Thayer  graduated  from  Salter  Secretarial 
School  and  is  an  executive  secretary  at 
Management  Decision  Systems,  Waltham. 
Her  husband  is  a  senior  mechanical  en- 
gineer at  Boston  Edison  Co.,  Nuclear  Divi- 
sion, Boston. 

>-Born:  to  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Duane  R.  Arse- 
nault  a  son,  Kevin  Duane,  on  October  10, 
1979.  Kevin  joins  his  sister,  Crystal  Lynn,  2. 
In  December,  Arsenault  received  his  doctor 
of  electrical  engineering  degree  from  RPI. 
Currently,  he  is  a  full  staff  member  at  MIT 
Lincoln  Laboratory,  where  he  is  doing  re- 
search on  a  surface-acoustic-wave  chirp 


transform  processor  —  work  that  is  similar 
to  that  found  in  his  doctoral  thesis.  One  of 
the  other  full  staff  members  at  the  Lab  is  Dr. 
Victor  Dolat,  '64.  ...  to  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Michael  S.  Martowska  their  first  child, 
Michelle  Margaret,  on  March  16,  1980. 
Martowska  has  been  promoted  from 
supervisor  of  incoming  quality  assurance  to 
supervisor  of  package  research  at  Clairol, 
Inc.,  in  Stamford,  Conn. 

Dennis  Anctil  holds  the  post  of  design 
engineerat  O'Brien  &  Gere  Engineers,  Inc., 
Syracuse,  N.Y.  .  .  .  Ann  Anderson  works  as 
an  analyst  in  the  software  department  at 
Computervision  in  Bedford,  Mass. .  .  .  Paul 
Boulier  serves  as  a  project  leader  in  the 
research  and  development  group,  Borden, 
Inc.  —  Thermoplastics  Division,  Leomin- 
ster, Mass. .  .  .  Chuan- Ju  Chen  is  employed 
as  a  senior  engineer  at  Monsanto  Plastics  & 
Resins  Co.,  Indian  Orchard,  Mass. .  .  . 
Wayne  Chepren  was  commissioned  a  sec- 
ond lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force  upon 
graduation  from  OTS  at  Lackland  AFB,  San 
Antonio,  Texas.  He  is  now  at  Norton  AFB  in 
California. .  .  .  David  Clew  is  a  weatheriza- 
tion  specialist  at  Pacific  Gas  &  Electric  in  San 
Jose,  Calif.  He  and  Mickie  have  two  chil- 
dren. .  .    Todd  Cormier  serves  as  a  project 
engineer  at  Halliwell  Associates,  Provi- 
dence, R.I.  The  company  is  presently  con- 
tracted to  14  firms  to  redevelop  their  hy- 
droelectric facilities. 

Steve  Dacri,  who  appeared  at  WPI  this 
spring,  entertained  at  the  Speidel  national 
sales  meeting  in  Newport  Beach,  Calif.,  in 
May.  Summer  engagements  are  slated 
aboard  the  MS  Princendam  and  New  York 
to  Bermuda  cruises  aboard  the  Rotterdam 
and  Volendam. .  .  .  Capt.  Robert  Flanagan, 
Jr.,  serves  as  company  commander  for 
Company  C,  2d  Battalion,  4th  Infantry,  in 
the  U.S.  Army,  Germany.  He  has  an  MS  in 
physics  from  MIT. 

Gary  Golnik  is  a  member  of  the  technical 
staff  for  TRW  Defense  &  Space  Systems 
Group,  Redondo  Beach,  Calif.  .  .  .  Edward 
Gordon  holds  the  position  of  senior  devel- 
opment programmer  at  Decision  Data 
Computer  Corporation,  Horsham,  Pa.  . .  . 
Gordon  Gover  works  as  a  senior  develop- 
ment chemist  at  Clairol  in  Stamford,  Conn. 
.  .  .  Michael  Graham  has  been  named  cor- 
porate director  of  compensation  and  bene- 
fits at  Bausch  &  Lomb,  Inc.  Formerly,  he 
was  with  Albany  International  Corp.  He 
holds  a  degree  from  RPI. .  .  .  Continuing 
with  Bell  Laboratories,  Howard  Greene  is 
now  located  in  Murray  Hill,  N.J.  He  has 
received  his  MSEE  from  the  Columbia 
School  of  Engineering.  .  .  .  Gary  Hills,  who 
has  an  MSCE  from  Berkeley,  is  a  cost 
engineer  for  Stone  &  Webster,  Wading 
River,  N.Y.  .  .  .  Lawrence  Hunter  is  with 
Westinghouse  Electric  in  Baltimore,  Md. 
...  In  March,  Vijay  Kirloskar  and  his  wife, 
Meena,  visited  WPI  from  India.  .  .  . 
Michael  Kosmo  is  employed  as  a  project 
engineerat  Schofield  Brothers,  Framing- 
ham,  Mass. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1980  /  39 


Paul  Nordstrom  is  a  principal  sanitary 
engineer  for  the  Rhode  Island  Department 
of  Environmental  Management  in  Provi- 
dence  Stanley  Piekos  holds  the  posi- 
tion of  project  engineer  at  Riley  Stoker  in 
Worcester.  Last  year,  he  received  his  MSCE 
from  Stevens  Institute  of  Technology  in 
Hoboken,  N.J. .  .  .  Stephen  Powlishen  now 
works  for  Hewlett-Packard  Co. .  .  .  Bechtel 
Power  Corp.  employs  Michael  Rollett  as  a 
field  engineer  in  San  Clemente,  Calif. .  .  . 
John  Stopa,  who  has  his  JD  from  BU  School 
of  Law,  serves  as  an  assistant  legal  counsel 
at  Orion  Research  Incorporated,  Cam- 
bridge, Mass.  He  is  a  chess  master. .  .  . 
Stephen  Williams  is  working  as  an  inven- 
tory and  production  control  specialist  for 
GE  in  Ft.  Wayne,  Ind.  He  has  completed  a 
three-year  assignment  as  a  quality  control 
engineer. 


1975 

Secretary:  Representative: 

James  D.  Aceto,  Jr.  William  F.  George 

70SunnyviewDr.  27  Old  Farm  Rd 

Vernon,  CT  Spencer,  MA 

06066  01562 

^Married:  Bruce  E.  Keith  and  Laura  E. 
Gardosik,  '77,  on  April  12,1 980,  in  West 
Warwick,  Rhode  Island.  Mrs.  Keith  is  a 
design  engineer  at  Polaroid  Corp.,  Cam- 
bridge, Mass.  Her  husband  is  with 
Teradyne  Corp.,  Boston. .  .  .  Capt.  Michael 
L.  Parker  and  Brenda  S.  Harkins  on  De- 
cember 29,  1979  in  Fort  Knox,  Kentucky. 
Currently,  they  are  residing  in  Killeen, 
Texas.  Mike  is  stationed  at  Ft.  Hood  as  a 
cavalry  squadron  maintenance  officer. .  .  . 
David  T.  Shopis  and  Patricia  A.  O'Sullivan 
on  March  15, 1980  in  Windsor,  Connect- 
icut. Mrs.  Shopis,  a  graduate  of  Hartford 
Hospital  School  of  Allied  Health,  is  a  nurse 
at  Hartford  Hospital.  Her  husband  is  with 
F.I. P.  Corporation  in  Farmington,  Conn., 
where  he  is  construction  manager. 

+Bom:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  David  H.  Kings- 
bury their  third  child,  first  son,  David 
Joseph,  on  March  11,1 980.  ...  to  Capt. 
and  Mrs.  Douglas  Sargent  a  daughter, 
Amber  Marie,  on  September  8, 1 979.  Sar- 
gent, who  was  promoted  in  December,  is 
still  serving  in  Portland,  Me.,  with  the  U.S. 
Army. 

Dr.  Andrew  Armstrong  has  received  his 
Doctor  of  Optometry  degree  from  the  New 
England  College  of  Optometry.  He  has  a  BS 
and  MS  in  mechanical  engineering  from 
WPI.  While  at  optometry  college,  he  had 
extensive  clinical  experience  at  the  Boston 
Eye  Clinic  and  at  Dorchester  House  Multi- 
Service Center.  He  had  a  three-month  resi- 
dency at  Rutland  (Mass.)  State  Hospital.  At 
a  pre-graduation  awards  dinner,  he  re- 
ceived the  Bausch  and  Lomb  contact  lens 
award,  which  is  given  to  the  graduate 
displaying  the  highest  proficiency  in  the 
field  of  contact  lenses. 


Clifford  Ashton  has  been  promoted  to 
engineer  at  Northeast  Utilities  (NU).  Last 
year,  he  joined  NU  as  associate  engineer  in 
the  generation  engineering  department. 
He  belongs  to  the  ASME,  Pi  Tau  Sigma,  and 
Sigma  Beta  Pi.  .  .  .  John  Balint  serves  as  a 
sales  engineer  for  GE  in  Oakland,  Calif. .  .  . 
John  Batt,  a  staff  engineer  in  the  Customer 
Service  Group  of  Union  Carbide,  has  been 
transferred  to  the  Linde  Division  at  the 
Distribution  Technical  Center  in 
Springfield,  N.J.  . .  .  Michael  Blaszczak, 
an  engineering  recruiter  for  General 
DataComm  Ind.,  Inc.,  is  headquartered  in 
Danbury,  Conn. .  .  .  Erik  Brodin  is  a  project 
engineer  at  GM  in  Framingham,  Mass.  He 
holds  a  master's  degree  from  the  University 
of  Rhode  Island  and  an  MBA  from  Western 
New  England  College. .  .  .Still  with  the  Lee 
Co.,  Raymond  Cibulskis  is  now  product 
manager  for  the  firm  in  Westbrook,  Conn. 
•  .  .  .  Robert  Cummings  is  employed  as  a 
system  planning  engineer  at  Central  Ver- 
mont Public  Service  Corp.,  Rutland,  Vt. .  .  . 
Mark  Deming  serves  as  a  senior  planner  for 
the  County  of  Santa  Cruz,  Calif. 

Judy  Nitsch  Donnellan  has  been  named 
a  registered  professional  engineer  in  Mas- 
sachusetts. She  continues  as  vice  president 
and  director  of  Schof  ield  Brothers,  Inc. ,  and 
as  manager  of  the  Attleboro  branch  office, 
Freeman  Engineering  Company.  .  .  . 
Robert  Fair  holds  the  post  of  project  en- 
gineer at  Connecticut  General  in  Hartford, 
Conn. .  .  .  Robert  Hart  is  employed  as  an 
operations  researcher  for  the  U.S.  Army 
Communications  Research  and  Develop- 
ment Command  in  Ft.  Monmouth,  N.J. .  .  . 
Daniel  Lapen  works  as  a  research  chemist 
at  Coulter  Biomedical,  Concord,  Mass.  He 
has  an  MS  from  UMass. .  .  .  Ronnie  Mater- 
niak  has  obtained  registration  as  a  profes- 
sional engineer  in  Delaware.  He  is  being 
transferred  to  du  Pont's  Construction  Divi- 
sion at  the  Richmond  (Va.)  plant  on  a 
two-year  rotational  assignment.  He  is 
working  on  his  MBA  "between  job  trans- 
fers." .  .  .  Continuing  with  the  Veterans 
Administration,  James  McKenzie  is  pres- 
ently with  the  Office  of  Construction  as  a 
resident  engineer  in  Washington,  D.C.  .  .  . 
Paul  Menard  has  received  his  PhD  in 
chemistry  from  Ohio  State  University  in 
Columbus. 

Laurence  Michaels  is  now  a  senior  sys- 
tems programmer-analyst  at  Applied  Data 
Research,  Inc.,  Princeton,  N.J.  Previously, 
he  was  with  Whitlow  Computer  Systems  in 
Englewood  Cliffs.  .  .  .  Ralph  Miller  works 
as  a  nuclear  equipment  operator  at  South- 
ern California  Edison  in  Santa  Ana.  .  .  .  M. 
Graham  Noll  is  with  Analogic  Corp.,  Dan- 
vers,  Mass. .  .  .  Toby  Reitzen  serves  as  a  gas 
process  engineer  for  Mobil  Oil  in  Chick- 
asha,  Okla.  .  .  .  Michael  Schultz  is  a 
graduate  research  assistant  at  MIT. 


1976 


Secretary: 

Paula  E  Stratouly 

1804  Windsor  Ridge  Dr. t 

Westboro,  MA 

01581 


REUNION 

OCTOBER  3-5 

Representative: 
Richard  P.  Predella,  Jr 
40  Hawthorn  Rd. 
Braintree,  MA 
02184 


^■Married:  Karl  S.  Johanson  and  Miss 
Shalene  Nayar  on  February  2,  1980,  in 
Bombay,  India.  The  bride  attended  schools 
in  Bombay,  New  Delhi,  and  England.  The 
groom  has  been  a  customer  support  repre- 
sentative for  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  since 
1976.  He  was  based  at  Air  India  from  1977 
to  1980,  assisting  with  B-747  operations. 
This  May,  he  relocated  to  Garuda  Airlines 
at  Jakarta,  Indonesia,  to  assist  in  their 
B-747  operations.  .  .  .  John  V.  Bucci  to 
Susan  K.  Dillen  on  December  29, 1979.  The 
groom  was  recently  promoted  to  manager 
of  materials  at  GE  Datacom  in  McAllen, 
Texas. 

►fiorn:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  James  R.  Cul- 
linane  a  son,  Jason  Stephen,  on  April  16, 
1980.  Jim  is  with  Grinnell  Corp.  in  Provi- 
dence, R.I.  The  family  resides  in  Norfolk, 
Mass. 

Richard  Allen  works  as  a  project  en- 
gineer at  Dufresne-Henry,  Manchester, 
N.H.  He  holds  an  MSCE  from  the  University 
of  Washington.  .  .  .  Charles  Bellemer  is  a 
chemist  at  Janco  in  Dover,  N.H.  .  .  .  Keith 
Bennett  serves  as  a  project  engineer  at  Air 
Products  &  Chemicals  in  Paulsboro,  N.J. 
He,  his  wife,  Kim,  and  one  child  live  in 
Bellmawr. .  .  .  Charles  Bohling  is  employed 
as  a  computer  programmer  at  Mission  Re- 
search Corp.,  Albuquerque,  N.M. .  .  .  Mark 
Coulson  holds  the  post  of  nuclear  shift  test 
engineer  at  General  Dynamics- Electric 
Boat,  Groton,  Conn. .  .  .  Richard  Crafts  is  a 
process  engineer  at  Occidental  Chemical, 
White  Springs,  Fla.  .  .  .  Thomas  Des- 
coteaux  is  with  the  estimating  department 
at  Delia  Construction  Co.,  Inc.,  Enfield, 
Conn.  .  .  .  Presently,  Les  Erikson  is  em- 
ployed as  general  manager  at  Norton  Co.  in 
Arden,  N.C.  He  and  Carol  have  three  chil- 
dren. ...  Ed  Floyd  serves  as  a  design 
engineer  at  Dufresne-Henry  in  North 
Springfield,  Vt. 

Riley  Stoker,  Worcester,  employs  James 
Galvin  as  a  construction  engineer.  He  has 
an  MSCE  from  Stanford.  .  .  .  Still  with 
Eastern  Utilities  Associates  Service  Corpo- 
ration, Lincoln,  R.I.,  Robert  Grande  was 
recently  transferred  to  the  system  planning 
section. .  .  .  John  Grenier,  Jr.,  works  as  a 
programmer  II  at  Norton  Co.,  Worcester. 
The  Greniers  have  a  son,  Michael.  .  . . 
Raymond  Houle,  Jr.,  continues  as  general 
manager  of  Precision  Products,  the  family 
business  located  in  North  Smithfield,  R.I. 
The  firm  produces  calculator  keyboard  as- 
sembly equipment,  precision  welding  fix- 
tures, automatic  choke  inspection  gauges, 
and  was  certified  to  work  on  the  Apollo 
program.  Recently,  the  company  moved 


40  /  Summer  1980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


into  larger  quarters  with  room  for  expan- 
sion. .  .    Benjamin  Jacobs  is  a  self- 
employed  actor  and  acting  teacher  in  Port- 
land, Oregon.  .  .  .  "B.  J."  Johnson  is  now 
associate  group  manager  for  Prudential 
Insurance  in  Boston.  He  is  chairman  of  the 
WPI  Homecoming  Committee.  .  .  .  Steven 
Landry  serves  as  a  chemical  officer  with  the 
U.S. Army  in  West  Germany. 

Andrew  Marcus  writes:  "It  appears  that 
the  WPI  plan  works.  I've  been  working  for 
the  same  firm,  F.  L.  Smidth  &Co.,  for  three 
years."  Presently,  he  is  assistant  contract 
manager.  Earlier,  he  had  been  a  project 
engineer,  then  project  manager.  His  firm, 
based  in  Copenhagen,  is  a  manufacturer- 
designer  of  Portland  cement  equipment 
and  plants.  "One  of  the  reasons  I  picked 
WPI  was  that  there  wasn't  a  language 
requirement.  Because  of  the  fact  that  most 
of  our  plants  are  in  Mexico  and  South 
America,  I  now  know  Spanish!"  .  .  .  Robert 
Milk  is  director  of  data  processing  at  Elec- 
tronic Data  Systems,  Raleigh,  N.C. ...  In 
February,  William  Ruoff  joined  Gas  Ser- 
vice, Inc.,  in  Nashua,  N.H.,  as  a  gas  distribu- 
tion engineer. 

Craig  Self  is  with  Polaroid  Corp.,  Cam- 
bridge, Mass.  .  .  .  Thomas  Stowe  is  a  test 
engineer  at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft,  East 
Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Lance  Sunderlin  holds 
the  position  of  supervisor  of  the  insulating 
department  at  Anaconda  Industries  in 
Watkinsville,  Ga.  .  .  .  Albany  International 
Corp.  of  Glens  Falls,  N.Y.,  employs  Thomas 
Vaughn  as  a  sales  engineer.  He  covers  New 
England  paper  mills  in  his  sales  territory  and 
is  located  in  Nashua,  N.H.  .  .  .  Currently, 
David  Wolff  works  for  ASA,  Inc.,  a 
software  house  in  Southboro,  Mass.  As  a 
programmer-analyst  and  project  leader,  he 
heads  a  group  of  75  people. .  .  .  Recently, 
Neal  Wright  was  assigned  as  maintenance 
officer  for  the  642d  Engineer  Equipment 
Company  (CS)  at  Fort  Devens.  He  is  re- 
sponsible for  over  140  pieces  of  engineer 
equipment.  The  642d  Engineer  Company 
has  been  commanded  by  two  other  WPI 
alumni,  Thomas  Beckman,  73,  and  Wil- 
liam Baker,  76.  ...  In  May,  Brian  Young 
received  his  MBA  from  Widener  University, 
Chester,  Pa. 


1977 


1978 


Secretary 

Representative: 

Secretary 

Kathleen  Molony 

Christopher  D.  Baker 

Cynthia  Grynick 

6  Aiken  St. 

1 1  Boston  St. 

303  Woicott  Ct. 

Norwalk,  CT 

Lawrence,  MA 

Waterbury,  CT 

06851 

01841 

06705 

Michael  Abrams,  who  is  studying  for  his 
MSEE  at  Vanderbilt  University,  works  as  an 
electronic  technician  at  Northern  Telecom 
in  Nashville,  Tenn.  .  .  .  Carol  Sigel  Baran  is 
with  Charles  T.  Main,  Boston.  .  .  .  Jeffrey 
Baumer  works  as  a  manufacturing  en- 
gineer at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  in  North 
Berwick,  Me.  .  .  .  Brian  Belliveau  is  em- 
ployed as  a  division  sales  engineer  at 
Westinghouse-Sturtevant  Division  in  Hyde 
Park,  Mass.  .  .  .  Greg  Cipriano  is  a  project 
engineer  at  Instrumentation  Laboratory, 
Lexington,  Mass. 

Leonard  Clow,  a  graduate  student  at 
Kansas  State  University,  Manhattan,  Kan- 
sas, is  affiliated  with  the  biochemistry  de- 
partment. .  .  .  Lawrence  Coel  is  a  sales 
administrator  at  Interex  Corp.,  Natick, 
Mass. .  .  .  When  the  tall  ships  visited  Bos- 
ton at  the  end  of  May,  Bill  Cunningham 
was  again  on  hand  as  he  had  been  in  1 976 
with  his  silk-screening  business.  His  tempo- 
rary business  cards  read:  "Tall  Ships  Mar- 
keting, Boston-crafted  silk-screened  ap- 
parel." Bill  says  he  sold  most  of  his  stock 
before  the  event  was  over. .  .  .  Michael 
DiMascio  serves  as  vice  president  of  Briggs 
Engineering  in  Norwell,  Mass.  .  .  .  Paul 
Hajec  has  accepted  a  new  post  as  senior 
transportation  planner  for  the  Merrimack 
Valley  Planning  Commission  in  Haverhill, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Barbara  Hatch  is  employed  as  a 
production  engineer  at  Thiokol/Specialty 
Chemicals  Division,  Newell,  West  Virginia. 

1/Lt.  William  Lee  is  currently  a  battery 
commander  with  the  U.S.  Army  in  Europe. 
Later  this  summer,  he  will  be  located  in  San 
Antonio,  Texas. .  .  .  Jerry  Melcher  serves  as 
an  application  engineer  at  Moore  Systems 
in  San  Jose,  Calif. .  .  .  Eric  Paulson  holds  a 
post  as  commander  with  the  U.S.  Army  at 
Ft.  Stewart,  Ga.  .  .  .  1/Lt.  Marc  Richard, 
who  recently  received  his  MSEE  from  MIT, 
is  now  with  the  Joint  Tactical  Communica- 
tions Office  in  Tinton  Falls,  N.J.  . .  .  Peter 
Rudman,  a  first  lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Army, 
transferred  from  the  Signal  Corps  to  the 
Finance  Corps  in  March.  He  is  stationed  in 
Germany. .  .  .  Andrew  Sayles  is  with  Walsh 
Construction  Company,  Darien,  Conn. 

Mike  Sullivan  writes:  "Finally  back  in 
New  England  after  two  years  in  'Frostbite 
Falls,'  Minn.  [Rochester,  Minn.]"  Presently 
he  is  with  IBM  in  Essex  Junction,  Vt. .  .  .  Ted 
Tamburro  serves  as  a  1/Lt.-ADP  officer  for 
U.S.  Army  Management  Systems  Support 
Agency  in  the  Pentagon,  Washington,  D.C. 
He  and  his  wife  Judy  live  in  Alexandria,  Va. 
.  .  .  Robert  Ware,  who  has  an  MS  from 
Cornell,  is  a  graduate  student  and  research 
assistant  in  the  chemical  engineering  de- 
partment at  MIT. 


^■Married:  Robert  A.  Brown  III  and  Gail  M. 
Beauregard  in  Gardner,  Massachusetts,  on 
April  1 9, 1 980.  The  bride,  a  graduate  of  Bay 
Path  Junior  College  and  Rivier  College, 
teaches  at  Gardner  High  School.  The  bride- 
groom serves  as  a  design  engineer  at  Harris 
Corp.,  Westerly,  R.I. .  .  .  Joseph  Maslar 
and  Wanda  Wells  on  December  21 ,  1979. 
The  groom  is  a  sales  manager  at  Datamet- 
rics,  Inc.,  Wilmington,  Mass.  .  .  .  David  T. 
Markey  and  Regina  A.  Carcieri  on  April  26, 
1980  in  Providence,  Rhode  Island.  Mrs. 
Markey  attended  Rhode  Island  College  and 
works  for  Almac's  Inc.  Her  husband  is  with 
Sikorsky  Aircraft,  Stratford,  Conn.  .  .  . 
Stephen  W.  Robichaud  and  Colette  M. 
LaChance  in  Gardner,  Massachusetts,  on 
November  24,  1979.  The  groom  will  finish 
the  GE  Manufacturing  Management  Pro- 
gram in  July.  He  has  been  serving  as  a  buyer 
and  is  now  working  with  solar-wind- 
nuclear  energy.  .  .  .  Alan  E.  Simakauskas 
and  June  Carroll  on  October  20, 1 979,  in 
Spencer,  Massachusetts.  The  bride,  a  med- 
ical secretary  at  Cape  Cod  Hospital,  Hyan- 
nis,  graduated  from  Becker.  Her  husband 
is  with  Butler  Automatic,  Inc.,  Canton, 
Mass. 

>Born:  to  Robert  and  Robin  Paisner 
Chapell  their  first  child,  a  daughter, 
Melanie  Ann,  on  April  22,  1980.  Chapell  is 
a  project  engineer  at  Linenthal  Eisenberg 
Anderson,  Inc.,  Engineers,  in  Boston. 

Anthony  Allis  holds  the  post  of  president 
of  Microwave  Systems  Engineering  Corp., 
A&J  Marketing,  and  National  Idea  Devel- 
opment. He  is  secretary  of  A.  J.  Allis  Dairy 
Co., Inc.,  and  is  located  in  Scarsdale,  N.Y. 
.  .  .  Paul  Avakian  is  with  NEC  Micro- 
Computer,  Wellesley  Mass.  .  .  .  Paul  Cody 
is  employed  as  a  field  service  engineer  at 
Westinghouse  Electric  Corp.  Engineering 
Service,  Framingham,  Mass.  .  .  .  Wallace 
Davis  III  is  supervisor  of  environmental 
sciences  for  the  Washington  Public  Power 
Supply  System  in  Richland.  .  .  .  Adrienne 
Dill  is  with  Haley  &  Aldrich,  Inc.,  Cam- 
bridge, Mass. .  .  .  Raymond  Dunn  starts  his 
third  year  at  Albany  (N.Y.)  Medical  College 
this  fall.  "From  then  on  it's  full  time  till  May 
1982."  .  .  .  Mladen  Eic  serves  as  technical 
manager  for  "Jugoinspekt"  in  Yugoslavia. 
.  .  .  Bryce  Granger  now  works  for  Akron 
Standard  as  a  project  engineer. .  .  .William 
Heberling  III  is  employed  as  production 
engineer  for  Zachary  Organs  in  Parsippany, 
N.J.  Recently,  he  oversaw  the  design  of  a 
one-man  band  type  of  instrument  with 
drums,  bass,  guitar,  and  violins. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1980/41 


What  handicap? 


John  Pavao,  '79,  has  a  lot  going  for 
him,  according  to  his  boss  at  the 
Naval  Underwater  Systems  Com- 
mand (nusc)  in  Newport,  Rhode 
Island.  Another  colleague  says, 
"we'd  greatly  appreciate  having 
other  graduates  like  John  referred  to 
nusc.  They  make  fine  profes- 
sionals." 

Pavao,  a  computer  specialist, 
has  demonstrated  proficiency  in  his 
profession  and  devotion  to  duty  on 
his  various  job  assignments,  in  spite 
of  what  many  would  consider 
unsurmountable  odds. 

John  was  born  blind.  Blindness, 
however,  has  never  deterred  him 
from  reaching  his  goals.  Currently 
he  works  as  a  permanent  employee 
deeply  involved  in  developing  a 
computer  software  program  for  the 
Acoustic  Range  Tracking  (art)  sys- 
tem which  will  be  used  at  autec, 
the  Atlantic  Undersea  Test  and 
Evaluation  Center,  located  on 
Andros  Island  in  the  Bahamas. 

To  facilitate  his  work,  John 
uses  a  teleprinter  that  prints  Braille; 
a  Braille  writer;  a  telewriter;  and  a 
talking  calculator.  He  can  read  nor- 
mal print  by  using  an  optacon, 
which  uses  an  electronic  system  to 
scan  letters  and  numbers  and  trans- 
late them  into  impressions  he  can 
read  with  his  fingertips. 

John,  a  graduate  of  Perkins 
Institute  for  the  Blind,  Watertown, 
Mass.,  has  been  interested  in  com- 
puter science  for  a  long  time.  At 
WPI  he  became  adept  at  program- 
ming many  of  the  popular  computer 
languages,  including  Fortran, 
basic,  cobol,  and  microprocessor 
machine  languages. 

Following  his  graduation  from 
WPI,  Pavao  was  interviewed  by  a 
number  of  company  recruiters 
through  the  Office  of  Graduate  and 
Career  Plans,  but  he  was  unable  to 


secure  a  position  because  of  eco- 
nomic considerations.  "I  discov- 
ered," he  explains,  "that 
companies  were  unwilling  to  hire 
me  unless  I  could  provide  my  own 
Braille  terminal.  They  didn't  have 
Braille  terminals  available,  and  I 
couldn't  afford  to  buy  one  myself." 

Before  finally  joining  the  staff 
at  nusc,  where  equipment  for  the 
handicapped  is  available,  John 
received  a  700-hour  temporary 
appointment  which  he  passed  with 
flying  colors.  John  is  very  happy 
with  his  permanent  post  at  the 
Sound  Laboratory,  which  was 
offered  to  him  after  the  trial  period. 

'  'Actually,  it  was  a  hobby  that 
eventually  led  me  to  nusc,  ' '  John 
reveals.  '  'I  enjoy  operating  ham 
radios,  and  several  years  ago  I 
became  friendly  with  another  ham 
radio  enthusiast,  Tom  Riley,  who  is 
my  current  boss.  It  was  through  his 
efforts  that  I  was  able  to  take  advan- 
tage of  the  job  opportunity  at  the 
laboratory." 

Able-bodied,  well-trained,  and 
capable,  John  displays  a  great  deal  of 
self-confidence.  His  co-workers  feel 
that  he  has  no  handicap  whatso- 
ever. He  routinely  walks  unassisted 
from  his  office  in  Building  1 1 1  to 
Building  103  for  negotiations  on 
computer  technology.  Every  day  he 
rides  to  and  from  his  job  in  a  carpool 
from  Dighton,  Mass.,  where  he 
lives  with  his  parents. 

After  hours,  his  interests  are 
varied  and  many.  He's  an  avid 
sports  participant  and  regularly 
engages  in  swimming,  jogging, 
bowling,  and  shooting  baskets. 


42  /  Summer  1980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


Carl  Klein  has  accepted  a  new  job  as 
production  supervisor  of  switch  assembly 
and  molding  in  the  GE  Wiring  Device 
Dept,  Middletown,  R.I.  He  will  attend 
Harvard  Business  School  this  fall.  .  .  .  Pres- 
ently, Ken  Kummins  holds  the  position  of 
principal  engineer  for  E.D.S.  Nuclear  at  the 
Commanche  Peak  Site  in  Fort  Worth, 
Texas.  Also  a  consulting  engineer,  he  is 
working  in  a  group  that's  doing  safety 
analyses  on  the  plants.  He  expects  to  be  in 
Texas  for  a  couple  of  years.  E.D.S.  Nuclear, 
a  consulting  firm,  has  offices  in  San  Fran- 
cisco, New  York,  Atlanta,  and  Paris.  . .  . 
Scott  Lentz  serves  as  process  control  en- 
gineer at  the  Foxboro  Co.  in  Chamblee,  Ga. 
.  .  .  Kathryn  Lyga  is  a  design  engineer  at 

CE-KSB  Pump  Co.,  Portsmouth,  N.H 

Advent  Corp.,  Cambridge,  Mass.,  employs 
Brian  McLane  as  a  television  design  en- 
gineer. He  is  involved  in  the  design  of 
economy  projection  television.  .  .  .  Edward 
Menard  is  a  firmware  engineer  at  Qantel 
Corp.,  Hayward,  Calif. 

Stephan  Mezak  holds  the  post  of  com- 
puter resources  manager  at  Eaton  Corp.  in 
Sunnyvale,  Calif.  .  .  .  Richard  Ruscito  is 
employed  as  a  process  supervisor  at  W.  R. 
Grace-Davison  Chemical  Division,  Balti- 
more, Md.  .  . .  Philip  Scarrell  is  a  first  line 
supervisor  with  du  Pont  in  South  San  Fran- 
cisco, Calif.  .  .  .  Gregory  Smith  works  as  a 
sales  engineer  at  F.  K.  Smith  Co., Inc.,  Ham- 
den,  Conn. .  .  .  Andrew  Tannenbaum  is 
now  an  information  systems  staff  member 
in  the  Sonar  Systems  Development  De- 
partment of  Western  Electric,  Whippany, 
N.J. .  .  .  Jeff  Toran  is  employed  by  du  Pont's 
R&D  facility  in  Wilmington,  Delaware.  He 
just  received  his  master's  from  WPI.  ...  In 
February,  Bettina  Tuttle  transferred  from 
GE  in  Ohio  to  GE-Plastics  in  Pittsfield, 
Mass.,  where  she  is  a  process  engineer. 
While  in  Ohio,  she  coached  a  YMCA  swim 
team  (12  to  Nationals).  In  Pittsfield  she 
teaches  handicapped  children  skills  and 
sports.  She  is  taking  night  courses  for  her 
MBA. 


1979 


Secretary 

Representative: 

James  Manchester 

Donald  O.  Patten.  Jr 

625  Main  St. 

27  French  St. 

Reading,  MA 

Hingham,  MA 

01867 

02043 

^Married:  A.  Michael  Blaney  and  Marlene 
M.  Livingstone  in  Southboro,  Mas- 
sachusetts on  April  12,  1980.  The  bride 
attended  Aquinas  Junior  College.  .  .  .  An- 
thony Doornweerd  and  Elizabeth  A.  Rivers 
on  May  16,  1980,  in  Branford,  Connec- 
ticut. Mrs.  Doornweerd  graduated  from 
Becker. 

Edward  Anderson,  Jr.,  has  joined 
Megakit  Corp.,  Santa  Clara,  Calif.  .  .  .  Rick 
Bonci  serves  as  a  process  engineer  at  Mon- 
santo Textiles  Co.,  Decatur,  Alabama.  .  .  . 
Stephen  Caputo  is  taking  a  GE  technical 
program  in  Auburn,  N.Y.  .  .  .  Douglas 
Clark  works  as  a  design  engineer  at  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft,  East  Hartford,  Conn. .  .  . 
Dewey  &  Almy  Chemical  Division  of  W.  R. 
Grace  &  Co.,  Lexington,  Mass.,  has  em- 
ployed John  Craffey  as  a  process  engineer 
in  new  product  development. .  .  .  Thomas 
Dinan,  Jr.,  is  at  the  University  of  Illinois  at 
Urbana-Champaign.  He  belongs  to  the 
Electrochemical  Society  and  the  American 
Institute  of  Chemical  Engineers. .  .  .  John 
Etrie  serves  as  a  purchasing  agent  at 
Coghlin  Electric  Co.,  Worcester. .  .  .  Mary 
Farren  was  promoted  to  associate  engineer 
at  IBM. 

Ken  Fast  is  employed  as  a  junior  engineer 
at  Engineering  Incorporated  in  Hampton, 
Va. .  .  .  Michael  Gabriella  works  as  a  water 
quality  control  engineer  for  the  Division  of 
Water  Pollution  Control  in  Westboro, 
Mass.  He  is  a  member  of  the  chorus  and 
quartet  of  the  Society  for  Preservation  of 
Barbershop  Quartet  Singing  in  America. 
.  .  .  Steven  Gottschalk  has  accepted  a  post 
as  associate  engineer  at  Perkin- Elmer  Opti- 
cal Technology  Division  in  Danbury,  Conn. 
.  .  .  Robert  Hart  has  joined  the  sales  office 
in  Trane  Company's  Commercial  Air  Con- 
ditioning Division,  Los  Angeles.  Recently, 
he  completed  the  Trane  Graduate  Engineer 
Training  Program,  a  six-month  course  con- 
centrating on  specialized  heat  transfer 
theory  and  practice.  Trane  is  a  leading 
manufacturer  of  air  conditioning,  refrigera- 
tion, and  heat  transfer  equipment  for 
commercial,  residential,  industrial,  trans- 
port and  special  process  applications  and 
has  facilities  worldwide. 

William  Herman  serves  as  a  systems 
analyst  at  Arthur  Andersen,  Hartford, 
Conn.  .  .  .  Lorraine  Kikuta  Hunt  is  a  quality 
control  engineer  at  DEC,  Westfield,  Mass. 
.  .  .  Brian  Johansson  is  employed  as  a 
development  engineer  at  Motorola,  Inc., 
Plantation,  Fla. .  .  .  Paul  Keary  is  a  compos- 
ite structural  engineer  at  Boeing  Co.,  in 
Washington.  .  .  .  Leonard  Kleczynski  is 
employed  as  a  project  engineer  at  Markem 


Corp.,  Keene,  N.  H. .  .  .  Peter  Kujawski  is  a 

chemical  staff  officer  with  the  U.S.  Army  at 

Ft.  Ord,  Calif Procter  &  Gamble, 

Mehoopany,  Pa.,  employs  Douglas  La- 
Brecque  as  a  team  manager.  .  .  .  Stephen 
Lefemine  works  as  a  sales  application  en- 
gineer at  Warren  Pumps,  Warren,  Mass. 
.  .  .  Lawrence  Leduc  serves  as  a  project 
engineer  at  Carl  Gordon  Industries, 
Worcester.  .  .  .  Sheng  Lung  Lien  is  now 
with  Monsanto  in  St.  Louis,  Mo.  .  .  .  Pres- 
ently, Ian  Mair  is  employed  as  a  research 
metallurgist  with  Lukens  Steel  Company, 
Coatesville,  Pa. 

John  Moses  is  with  A.  D.  Little  in  Cam- 
bridge, Mass.  .  .  .  Peter  Mullarkey  holds 
the  post  of  project  engineer  at  CTI7 
Thompson,  Inc.,  in  Denver,  Colo.  .  .  .  Paul 
Norton  serves  as  a  junior  engineer  at 
Gannett-Fleming,  Camp  Hill,  Pa.  .  .  .  John 
Osborne  is  employed  as  a  field  sales  en- 
gineer at  GE  in  Schenectady. .  .  .  Chris  Ratti 
(not  "Patti"  as  erroneously  printed  in  the 
spring  issue  of  the  Journal)  continues  as 
plant  supervisor  at  Engineered  Plastics 
Products,  Inc.,  in  Stirling,  N.J.  .  .  .  Kenneth 
Sawyer  holds  the  post  of  analytical  en- 
gineer trainee  at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  in 
East  Hartford,  Conn. .  .  .  John  Skliutas  is 
working  for  his  master  of  engineering  in 
electric  power  at  RPI.  .  .  .  Currently, 
Timothy  Spera  is  with  Honeywell  EOC  in 
Lexington,  Mass.  .  .  .  Joseph  Spinn  is  em- 
ployed as  stability  engineer  at  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft  in  West  Palm  Beach,  Fla. 
. .  .  Michael  Tabaczynski  has  accepted  a 
post  at  Raytheon  in  Wayland,  Mass.  .  . . 
Marine  2/Lt.  Gregory  VanHouten  recently 
graduated  from  Basic  School  located  in  the 
Marine  Corps  Development  and  Education 
Command  in  Quantico,  Va.  The  school 
prepares  newly  commissioned  officers  for 
assignment  to  the  Fleet  Marine  Force  and 
emphasizes  the  duties  and  responsibilities 
of  a  rifle  platoon  commander.  Training 
included  instruction  in  land  navigation, 
marksmanship,  leadership,  and  teamwork 
in  the  26-week  course. .  .  .  Felix  Vargas  is 
with  CHU  Associates  in  Littleton,  Mass. .  .  . 
Douglas  West,  an  MSEE  student  at  WPI, 
serves  as  a  teaching  assistant  in  the  EE 
department. 


e 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1980  /  43 


School  of  Industrial 
Management 


John  Greenaway,  '54,  holds  the  post  of 
chairman  at  Peterson  Steels,  Inc.,  Avon, 
Conn.  The  firm  is  a  division  of  SKF  Steel. 

Richard  Seymour,  '75,  has  been  named 
production  superintendent  at  New  Hamp- 
shire Ball  Bearings,  Inc.,  Peterborough, 
N.H.  Formerly,  he  was  with  Reed  and 
Prince  Company  in  Jaff rey.  He  has  an  ex- 
tensive background  in  all  phases  of  design, 
production,  and  plant  engineering,  and  has 
aBSMEfrom  WPI. 


Ronald  Butler,  76,  was  promoted  to  chief 
engineer  at  CPC  Engineering  Corporation. 
During  his  18  years  with  the  firm,  he  has 
served  as  project  engineer,  quality  control 
manager,  plant  engineer,  and  production 
manager.  He  is  a  graduate  of  Worcester 
Junior  College,  and  is  on  the  advisory 
boards  of  three  vocational  high  schools: 
Tantasqua,  Worcester  Vocational,  and 
WITI.  The  Sturbridge  resident  is  vice  chair- 
man of  the  American  Welding  Society  and 
a  member  of  the  board  of  the  Tri- 
Community  YMCA,  where  he  serves  as 
chairman  of  the  house  committee.  He  also 
belongs  to  the  U.S.  Coast  Guard  Auxiliary. 


Bay  State  Abrasives,  Westboro  (Mass.)  has 
announced  the  appointment  of  Everett 
Peterson,  '79,  to  the  post  of  manager  of 
manufacturing  control.  He  graduated  from 
Northeastern.  With  Bay  State  since  1965, 
he  most  recently  served  as  senior  industrial 
engineer.  He  is  a  past  president  of  the 
American  Institute  of  Industrial  Engineer- 
ing, Worcester  chapter. 


Natural 

Science 

Program 

Robert  Kelley,  '60,  an  associate  professor 
in  the  natural  science-physics  department 
at  Worcester  State  College,  was  recently 
named  the  first  "Science  Educator  of  the 
Year"  by  the  Massachusetts  Association  of 
Science  Teachers.  The  new  award  is  de- 
signed "to  recognize  persons  making  out- 
standing contributions  to  science  educa- 
tion in  the  Commonwealth  of  Mas- 
sachusetts." Kelley  earned  his  EdM  in  sci- 
ence education  at  Boston  University.  He 
was  chairman  of  the  founding  committee 
of  the  Massachusetts  Association  of  Sci- 
ence Supervisors  and  has  been  presidentof 
the  Association,  and  chairman  of  the  1 977 
eastern  convention  of  the  National  Science 
Teachers  Association.  He  has  received 
awards  for  outstanding  work  from  the 
M.A.S.S.,  the  Civil  Air  Patrol,  and  the  Na- 
tional Aeronautics  and  Space  Administra- 
tion. 


Jim  O'Brien,  '60,  is  currently  a  professor  at 
Boston  State  College,  Boston. 

Dr.  Jerry  Jasinski,  '68,  presented  a  Citizen's 
Workshop  on  Energy  and  the  Environment 
on  May  7th  in  Newport,  N.H.  The  highlight 
of  the  presentation  was  the  use  of  the 
energy-environment  simulator,  a  spe- 
cially designed  electronic  computer  which 
enables  workshop  participants  to  play  the 
roles  of  energy  decision  makers.  In  the 
game,  they  allocate  the  world's  energy 
resources  to  meet  growing  demands.  The 
program  was  given  under  the  auspices  of 
DOE.  Dr.  Jasinski  is  assistant  professor  of 
chemistry  at  Keene  State  College.  He  be- 
longs to  the  ACS,  Sigma  Xi,  and  the  Ameri- 
can Association  for  the  Advancement  of 
Science. 


Ernest  DiMicco,  '74,  was  chosen  by  the 
National  Association  of  Student  Councils  to 
present  a  workshop  at  its  national  conven- 
tion in  Arizona  in  June.  DiMicco  is  a  science 
teacher,  and  adviser  to  the  Coventry  (R.I.) 
High  School  Student  Council.  A  graduate 
of  Providence  College,  he  holds  a  master's 
from  WPI  and  has  studied  at  Penn  State 
and  URI.  Under  his  leadership,  the  Coven- 
try High  School  Student  Council  has  be- 
come one  of  the  most  active  and  respected 
in  the  country. 

Michael  O'Keefe,  '74,  is  senior  associate  at 
Management  &  Advisory  Services,  Bur- 
lington, Mass.  He,  his  wife,  Donna,  and 
one  child  live  in  Pelham,  N.H. 


44  /  Summer  1 980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


How  much  is  it  worth? 
Well,  I  don't  know, 
but  I  know  someone 
who  does .... 


He's  appraised  everything  from  the 
Empire  State  Building  to  the 
Golden  Gate  Bridge. 

Lee  P.  Hackett,  '61,  president 
of  American  Appraisal  Co.,  the 
world's  biggest  tangible  and  intangi- 
ble property  appraiser,  seems  to 
have  touched  all  bases.  "Along  the 
way,  we've  appraised  professional 
baseball,  football,  and  hockey 
teams."  Hackett's  firm  has  also 
evaluated  the  worth  of  the  bankrupt 
Penn  Central  Railroad,  an  ITT  space 
communications  satellite,  the  Alas- 
ka pipeline,  steel  mills  in  South 
America,  and  the  Lincoln  convert- 
ible limousine  in  which  President 
John  F.  Kennedy  was  riding  when  he 
was  assassinated  in  1963. 

'  'As  a  rule,  we  stay  away  from 
art  objects  and  private  residences," 
Hackett  continues,  "but  we  have 
done  work  for  60  percent  of  the 
firms  on  the  Fortune  500  list." 

Hackett,  a  Vermont  native, 
joined  the  Milwaukee-based  firm 
after  receiving  his  BS  in  electrical 
engineering  from  WPI  and  serving 
as  a  lieutenant  in  the  Army  Signal 
Corps.  In  1974,  he  received  his 
MBA  from  the  University  of  Chi- 
cago, and  he  now  discusses  invest- 
ment tax  credits  and  component 
depreciation  as  easily  as  watts  and 
volts.  And  after  years  of  traveling 
around  the  world,  appraising  every- 
thing from  sole  proprietorships  to 
huge  copper  mines,  he  has  scarcely 
a  trace  of  his  New  England  accent 
left. 

His  Yankee  trader  savvy,  how- 
ever, is  still  intact.  Hackett  doesn't 
allow  American  Appraisal  to  rest  on 
its  laurels.  He  continues  to  beat  the 
bushes  around  the  world  looking  for 
ways  to  make  a  buck.  He  is  forever 
coming  up  with  new  ideas  to  better 
serve  his  clients,  while  still  main- 
taining the  image  of  an  easy-going, 


"plain-folks"  individual.  Easy- 
going or  not,  Lee  Hackett  is  not  one 
to  come  out  second-best  in  a  busi- 
ness deal.  For  example,  not  long  ago 
he  charged  the  State  of  New  York 
$800,000  for  appraising  the  state 
university  system,  the  largest  in  the 
country. 

"We  put  a  value  on  every  desk, 
building,  and  piece  of  land  in  the 
system,"  he  says.  The  company 
also  offered  the  state  a  continuing 
update  service  so  that  it  could  make 
accurate  budget  forecasts.  "That 
was  my  biggest  assignment.  It  took 
two  years  to  complete." 

American  Appraisal  is  a  subsid- 
iary of  American  Appraisal  Associ- 
ates, Inc.  It  accounted  for  half  the 
parent  company's  revenues  last 


year.  Hackett  predicts  that  his  firm 
will  be  earning  $40  million  annual- 
ly by  1984.  A  Milwaukee  financial 
analyst  familiar  with  American  Ap- 
praisal agrees  with  that  forecast.  He 
says  the  company  does  a  good  job  of 
selling  its  services:  "It's  a  people 
company.  It  doesn't  make  anything, 
but  it  thrives  on  expertise." 

American  Appraisal  is  a  well- 
established  business,  which  origi- 
nated in  Milwaukee  purely  by 


accident.  "Back  in  1896,"  Hackett 
explains,  "the  founders  left  Minne- 
apolis to  go  to  Chicago,  where  they 
planned  to  set  up  a  company  staffed 
by  experts  who  could  make  impar- 
tial property  valuations  that  could 
stand  up  in  court.  They  traveled  by 
night  train  and  mistakenly  got  off  at 
Milwaukee  instead  of  Chicago.  Un- 
ruffled, they  decided  to  set  up  shop 
where  they  were.  The  Joseph  Sch- 
litz  Brewing  Company  was  their 

first  customer." 

Soon  the  company  was  recog- 
nized as  a  leading  expert  in  the  areas 
of  insurance,  mergers,  and  property 
tax  matters.  Today,  American 
Appraisal  has  250  appraisers  and 
500  staff  members,  including  sales- 
men, engineers,  financial  analysts, 
economists,  and  other  specialists 
skilled  in  the  collection  and  inter- 
pretation of  knowledge.  Data  flows 
through  the  computer  system  24 
hours  a  day  from  the  field  force, 
from  information  services,  and 
from  staff  calculations  servicing 
tens  of  thousands  of  clients. 

Hackett  notes  that  his  compa- 
ny spends  $1  million  a  year  on  sub- 
scriptions to  publications  and  other 
data  collection  services,  plus  anoth- 
er $1.5  million  on  travel  expenses, 
all  in  the  name  of  adding  services. 
"Our  aim  is  to  provide  the  client 
with  a  complete  package  of  infor- 
mation and  assistance  that  will  tell 
him  how  much  he  is  worth,  how 
well  he  is  doing,  and  how  much  he 
can  improve  his  situation." 

Lee  Hackett  has  spent  nearly 
half  his  40  years  with  American 
Appraisal.  He  has  helped  to  make  it 
prosper,  and  he  hopes  to  lead  it  to 
greater  heights  in  the  future. 
Although  business  keeps  him  busy, 
he  does  manage  to  find  time  to  do 
other  things.  For  example,  he  serves 
on  the  enrollment  committee  at 
Milwaukee  School  of  Engineering; 
he's  finance  director  for  the  Mil- 
waukee Tennis  Classic;  and  he's  a 
member  of  the  University  Club  and 
the  Association  for  Corporate 
Growth.  During  the  summer  he 
escapes  to  the  Arctic,  fishing,  and  in 
the  winter  he  can  be  found  skiing  in 
Colorado  and  Utah. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Summer  1980  /  45 


George  H.  Ryan,  '08,  a  retired  head 
chemist  for  White  &  Bagley  Co.,  Worces- 
ter, died  on  May  11,1 980  in  Millbury, 
Massachusetts.  He  was  93  years  old. 

A  Millbury  native,  he  lived  there  all  of  his 
life  with  the  exception  of  16  years  (1908- 
1 924)  which  he  spent  in  Montana  as  a 
sheep  rancher.  He  graduated  from  Worces- 
ter Academy  in  1904.  In  1908  he 
graduated  as  a  chemist  from  WPI.  For  34 
years  he  held  the  post  of  head  chemist  at 
White  &  Bagley  Co.  from  which  he  retired 
in  1956. 

He  belonged  to  Sigma  Xi,  the  Millbury 
Baptist  Church,  and  was  a  50-year  member 
of  the  American  Chemical  Society.  He  was 
a  past  president  of  the  Worcester  chapter 
of  the  ACS  and  a  life  member  of  the 
Meridian  Lodge  of  Masons  in  Cascade, 
Montana. 

Winfield  S.  Jewell,  Jr.,  '15,  of  Grosse 
Pointe,  Michigan,  died  on  March  24, 1 980. 

He  was  born  on  August  29,  1 893  in 
Indianapolis,  Ind.  In  1915  he  received  his 
BSEE.  During  his  career  he  was  with  GE, 
Studebaker,  Jewell-Bassett-Jewell,  Ready 
Power  Co.,  Jewel  Motors,  and  White- 
Haines  Optical.  For  a  number  of  years  he 
was  self-employed  and  associated  with 
Maxon,  Inc.,  as  a  real  estate  agent. 

Mr.  Jewell  belonged  to  Phi  Gamma  Delta 
and  the  Senior  Men's  Club  of  Grosse 
Pointe.  He  was  a  veteran  of  World  War  I.  At 
one  time  he  was  president  of  the  Detroit 
chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association. 

John  P.  Comstock,  '16,  internationally 
known  naval  architect,  died  of  a  heart 
attack  in  Newport  News,  Virginia,  on 
January  29, 1 980.  He  was  85. 

The  former  chief  naval  architect  at  New- 
port News  Shipbuilding,  he  was  honored  in 
1 960  by  the  National  Society  of  Naval 
Architects  and  Marine  Engineers  for  nota- 
ble achievement  in  his  field  throughout  his 
career. 


He  was  a  life  member  of  the  Society, 
belonged  to  Sigma  Xi,  and  was  also  a  life 
member  of  the  Royal  Institution  of  Naval 
Architects,  United  Kingdom,  and  a  life 
member  and  past  president  of  the  En- 
gineers Club  of  the  Virginia  Peninsula.  He 
published  over  70  technical  papers  in  the 
naval  architecture  field. 

In  1916,  he  received  his  BSCE  from  WPI. 
In  1919,  he  earned  a  BS  in  naval  architec- 
ture from  MIT.  Following  graduation,  he 
was  employed  at  the  old  Cramp's  Shipyard 
until  1927.  Later,  he  was  with  the  Marine 
Engineering  Corporation,  and  the  New 
York  Shipbuilding  Corporation  in  Camden, 
N.J.  In  1929,  he  became  associated  with 
the  naval  architectural  firm  of  Theodore  E. 
Ferris,  New  York  City.  He  joined  the  well 
known  Newport  News  Shipbuilding  and 
Dry  Dock  Company  in  1931 ,  startingoutas 
a  draftsman  and  retiring  as  naval  architect 
in  1960. 

Mr.  Comstock  helped  with  the  develop- 
ment of  the  towing  tank  at  Newport  News, 
and  channeled  its  activities  into  the  most 
productive  fields.  His  colleagues  have  said 
of  him,  "His  contributions  to  naval  ar- 
chitecture on  a  worldwide  basis  have  been 
magnificent." 

Since  his  retirement  in  1960,  he  had  been 
a  lecturer  at  the  Mariners'  Museum  and  a 
reading  instructor  with  the  Peninsula  Liter- 
acy Council.  For  many  years,  he  was  a 
ruling  elder  in  the  First  Presbyterian  Church 
of  Newport,  and  more  recently  a  member 
of  the  Hidenwood  Presbyterian  Church.  He 
was  born  on  Jan.  12,  1 895  in  Waterford, 
Conn. 

Frank  J.  Murphy,  '18,  who  graduated  from 
WPI  as  a  mechanical  engineer,  died  on 
February  26,  1980. 

Chester  A.  A.  Peterson,  '18,  died  in 

Brockton  (Mass.)  Hospital  on  March  1, 
1 980,  following  a  long  illness. 

He  was  born  on  Sept.  12,  1896,  in 
Brockton,  and  later  studied  civil  engineer- 
ing at  WPI.  Duringhis  lifetime  he  had  been 
principal  at  Vanceboro  (Me.)  High  School, 
and  had  also  been  employed  by  the  Maine 
Central  Railroad;  the  city  engineer's  office 
in  Quincy,  Mass.;  and  the  Town  of 
Stoughton  (town  engineer).  Prior  to  his 
retirement  in  1961,  he  was  the  home  office 
representative  of  the  Prudential  Life  Insur- 
ance Co.  for  30  years. 

Mr.  Peterson  belonged  to  Sigma  Phi 
Epsilon.  He  was  a  member  of  the  Congre- 
gational Church  of  North  Easton,  where  he 
was  editor  of  the  church  paper,  "Tidings." 
A  former  deacon,  he  was  a  past  president 
of  the  church  Friendship  Club. 


Ralph  F.  Tenney,  '18,  passed  away  in 
Summit,  New  Jersey  on  March  16, 1980. 

A  native  of  Leominster,  Mass.,  he  was 
born  on  March  12,  1897.  In  1918  he 
received  a  BS  in  chemistry  from  WPI,  and  in 
1920,  his  professional  degree  in  chemical 
engineering.  He  belonged  to  Sigma  Xi  and 
Tau  Beta  Pi. 

After  serving  as  a  private  in  the  Chemical 
Warfare  Service  of  the  U.S.  Army,  he  briefly 
joined  MIT  as  a  chemical  engineering  in- 
structor. He  was  then  a  works  chemist  for 
Worcester  Gas  Light  Co. ,  and  a  gas  produc- 
tion manager  for  the  Long  Island  Lighting 
Co.  From  1947  to  1953,  he  was  chief  of  the 
operating  section,  coal  gasification  and  gas 
synthesis,  at  a  coal-to-oil  demonstration 
plant  for  the  U.S.  government.  From  1953 
until  his  retirement  in  1964,  he  was  a 
chemical  engineeratagovernmentanthra- 
cite  experiment  center. 

Mr.  Tenney  belonged  to  the  American 
Gas  Association  and  the  Masons.  He  was 
the  brother  of  Harry  Tenney,  '20. 

Rear  Admiral  Richard  S.  Morse,  U.S.N, 
(retired),  '19,  of  Sea  Ranch,  California,  died 
on  December  2,  1979,  at  the  age  of  82. 

He  was  born  on  Feb.  22,  1897,  in 
Marlboro,  Mass.  After  attending  WPI,  he 
entered  the  U.S.  Naval  Academy  from 
which  he  graduated  in  1920.  He  spent  his 
entire  career  in  the  Navy,  starting  out  as  a 
midshipman  and  retiring  in  1947  as  a  rear 
admiral.  From  1948  to  1965  he  served  as 
secretary  and  assistant  treasurer  of  the 
Argonaut  Insurance  Co. 

Admiral  Morse  received  the  Defense 
Ribbon,  one  star,  in  World  War  I  and  World 
War  II,  and  he  was  cited  for  his  service  in 
the  1919  Haitian  campaign  and  the  Asiatic 
Pacific  campaign.  He  received  the  Legion 
of  Merit  in  the  invasion  of  southern  France 
and  the  Bronze  Star  in  the  Iwo  Jima  and 
Okinawa  campaigns. 

He  belonged  to  Phi  Gamma  Delta  and 
the  Masons. 

Homer  E.  Stevens,  '20,  of  Augusta,  Geor- 
gia, died  on  April  23,  1979. 

For  many  years  he  was  with  the  Worces- 
ter Fire  Department,  which  he  served  as 
captain.  He  was  born  in  Worcester  on  Dec. 
26,  1896,  and  later  became  a  member  of 
the  Class  of  1920. 

Prior  to  joining  the  Fire  Department,  he 
worked  for  Savage  Arms  Corp.,  Sharon, 
Pa.,  and  Crompton  &  Knowles,  Worcester. 


46  /  Summer  1980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


Carroll  A.  Huntington,  '21,  a  founder  of 
and  a  partner  in  Huntington,  Goodnow, 
Connors,  Inc.,  died  at  his  home  in  Welles- 
ley,  Massachusetts,  on  March  31,1 980.  He 
had  been  incapacitated  from  a  stroke  suf- 
fered ten  years  ago.  He  was  81 . 

In  1945  he  helped  establish  hisinsurance 
brokerage  firm  in  Boston.  In  1973,  the 
offices  were  moved  to  Wellesley.  The  com- 
pany specializes  in  commercial  property 
coverage.  Prior  to  founding  the  company, 
he  was  a  salesman-engineer  for  Improved 
Risk  Mutuals  of  Boston. 

Amemberof  the  Naval  Reserve  in  World 
War  I,  Mr.  Huntington  also  belonged  to  Phi 
Sigma  Kappa,  the  Masons,  and  the76  Club 
of  Boston.  He  was  born  in  Barre,  Vt,  on 
Sept.  1,  1898.  In  1921  he  graduated  as  a 
mechanical  engineer. 

Luther  C.  Small,  '22,  a  former  member  of 
the  Worcester  Housing  Authority,  died 
March  3,  1980  in  Hyannis,  Massachusetts. 

He  was  with  the  Worcester  Housing 
Authority  (WHA)  as  executive  director  for 
public  housing  and  management  from 
1 954  until  he  retired  in  1 970  and  moved  to 
Cape  Cod.  As  executive  director,  he  was 
responsible  for  the  maintenance,  man- 
agement, and  budgets  for  over  200  build- 
ings run  by  the  WHA.  He  was  also  con- 
cerned with  the  construction  and  renova- 
tion of  buildings. 

Priorto  his  WHA  appointment,  Mr.  Small 
had  served  as  clerk  of  the  works  in  the 
restoration  of  Great  Brook  Valley  and  Cur- 
tis Apartments  which  were  heavily  dam- 
aged by  the  1 953  tornado.  Earlier  posts  had 
been  with  R.  L.  Whipple  Co.  and  Fiske- 
Carter  Construction  Co.,  Worcester. 

Mr.  Small,  a  member  of  the  Class  of 
1922,  was  born  on  Dec.  8,  1900  in 
Westbrook,  Me.  He  graduated  from  Lee 
Institute,  Boston,  where  he  studied  to  be  a 
licensed,  registered  and  bonded  real  estate 
broker.  He  was  a  registered  civil  engineer. 
During  World  War  II,  he  was  a  lieutenant 
commander  with  the  56th  Battalion  of  the 
Seabees,  and  formed  the  first  Seabee  unit 
in  Massachusetts. 

He  was  a  50-year  Mason,  and  belonged 
to  the  Congregational  Church,  the  Mas- 
sachusetts Retired  State,  County,  and 
Municipal  Employees  Association,  the 
AARP,  and  the  American  Legion. 

Kenneth  E.  Hapgood,  '23,  retired  director 
of  power  and  design  with  the  Tennessee 
Valley  Authority,  died  in  a  rest  home  in 
Chattanooga,  Tennessee,  on  January  9, 
1980. 


He  was  born  in  Hudson,  Mass.,  on 
March  31,  1899.  In  1923  he  graduated  as 
an  electrical  engineer  from  WPI.  During  his 
lifetime,  he  was  with  GE,  Allied  Engineers, 
and  the  Tennessee  Valley  Authority.  While 
with  the  TVA,  he  made  a  number  of  busi- 
ness trips  to  Europe  and  Taiwan.  In  1964, 
he  was  appointed  to  the  Federal  Power 
Commission. 

A  fellow  of  IEEE,  Mr.  Hapgood  also 
belonged  to  CIGRE  (the  Conference  Inter- 
national des  Grandes  Reseaux  Electrique) 
and  NSPE.  He  was  a  registered  engineer  in 
Tennessee,  and  a  member  of  the  Chat- 
tanooga Engineers  Club  and  the  Congrega- 
tional Church.  He  had  been  listed  in 
"Who's  Who  in  Engineering"  and  "Who's 
Who  in  America. "  At  one  time  he  served  as 
president  of  the  Schenectady  chapter  of 
the  Alumni  Association. 

Edward  B.  Johnson,  '23,  of  Garden  City, 
New  York,  passed  away  recently. 

A  native  of  Wethersfield,  Conn.,  he  was 
born  on  Aug.  16,  1899.  He  graduated  in 
1923  as  a  civil  engineer.  From  1925  to 
1927  he  was  with  Western  Union.  In  1927, 
he  joined  Franklin  Society  Federal  Savings 
and  Loan  Association,  and  retired  as  assist- 
ant vice  president  in  1964.  He  belonged  to 
Theta  Chi. 

Richard  L.  Kimball,  '24,  of  Ocala,  Florida, 
formerly  with  Gibbs  &  Hill,  Inc.,  died  on 
January  10,  1980.  He  was  77  years  old. 

Following  his  graduation  as  an  electrical 
engineer,  Mr.  Kimball  was  an  employee  of 
Westinghouse  Electric  &  Mfg.  Co.  for  ten 
years.  For  the  next  three  years  he  worked 
for  the  Federal  Power  Commission.  He 
then  joined  Gibbs  &  Hill,  Inc.,  New  York 
City,  from  which  he  later  retired  as  chief 
systems  engineer. 

He  was  a  professional  engineer  and  a 
member  of  AIEE,  the  American  Railway 
Engineering  Association,  and  ASME,  as 
well  as  CIGRE  (the  Conference  Interna- 
tional des  Grandes  Reseaux  Electrique).  He 
served  on  the  Elmer  A.  Perry  Board  of 
Awards. 

Mr.  Kimball  was  born  on  March  8,  1 902 
in  Springfield,  Mass.  He  was  a  member  of 
Lambda  Chi  Alpha,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  and  Sigma 
Xi.  His  grandfather  was  Alonzo  Kimball 
(deceased),  an  early  WPI  faculty  member 
who  planned  the  interior  of  the  magnetic 
laboratory  (Skull  Tomb);  designed  the  WPI 
seal;  and  founded  the  Electrical  Engineer- 
ing Department. 


Thomas  D.  Perry,  '24,  retired  mechanical 
engineer  for  Atlas  Design  Co. ,  passed  away 
on  February  12,  1980  in  Holyoke,  Mas- 
sachusetts. 

He  was  born  on  Dec.  17,  1902  in 
Chicopee,  Mass.,  and  was  a  member  of  the 
Class  of  1 924.  He  belonged  to  Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon,  the  Massachusetts  Society  of  Pro- 
fessional Engineers  and  Engineering 
Societies  of  New  England.  Other  affiliations 
were  with  Associated  Engineering  Co.  and 
United  Engineering  Co.,  both  of 
Springfield,  and  with  A.G.  Spaulding  & 
Bros,  of  Chicopee. 

Waldo  E.  Tillinghast,  '24,  of  Brooklyn, 
Connecticut,  died  recently. 

He  belonged  to  Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon.  A 
member  of  the  Class  of  1 924,  he  later 
became  a  funeral  director  in  Moosup, 
Conn.,  and  then  a  partner  in  F.W.  Tilling- 
hast Sons  in  Danielson,  Conn. 

Arthur  R.  Brown,  '26,  of  Sun  City,  Califor- 
nia, is  deceased. 

He  was  born  in  Gardner,  Mass.,  on  July 
25,  1904.  In  1926,  he  received  his  BSEE 
from  WPI,  and  in  1928,  his  professional 
degree.  For  many  years,  he  was  a  senior 
engineer  at  Westinghouse  Electric  Corp., 
Columbus,  Ohio. 

Mr.  Brown  was  a  registered  professional 
engineer  in  Massachusetts.  He  belonged  to 
the  Franklin  County  Chapter  of  the  Ohio 
Society  of  Professional  Engineers. 

Salvatore  F.  Marino,  '28,  WPI  senior  class 
president  and  business  managerof  the  first 
Peddler,  died  on  February  23,  1980  in 
Bristol,  Connecticut.  He  was  77. 

He  was  born  in  Plainville,  Conn.,  on  June 
15,  1902,  and  received  his  BSME  in  1928. 
Before  entering  WPI  in  1924,  he  was  a 
draftsman  at  Marlin-Rockwell  in  Plainville. 
After  graduation,  he  worked  in  New  York 
and  Boston  on  the  design  and  installation 
of  steam  power  plant  equipment.  From 
1 935  to  1 957,  he  was  with  the  New  Depar- 
ture Division  of  GMC  of  Bristol,  where  he 
became  chief  product  engineer  and  was 
granted  several  patents.  From  1957  until 
his  retirement  in  1 965,  he  was  senior  appli- 
cation engineer  for  the  Fafnir  Bearing 
Company  of  New  Britain,  Conn. 

Mr.  Marino  had  been  a  Republican 
selectman  in  Plainville,  had  belonged  to  St. 
Joseph's  Church,  and  was  an  honorary  life 
member  of  the  Knights  of  Columbus.  He 
also  belonged  to  Tau  Beta  Pi.  Interested  in 
music,  he  started  playing  the  organ  and  the 
piano  at  an  early  age.  He  sang  in  several 
choral  groups  and  glee  clubs  in  Connect- 
icut. Besides  traveling  extensively  with  his 
wife,  Helen,  he  found  time  to  compile  a 
family  tree  and  to  write  a  family  history 
dating  back  to  1800. 


Joseph  E.  Totas,  '31,  a  retired  industrial 
engineer  from  the  former  Worcester 
Works,  died  on  March  13,  1980  in  St. 
Vincent  Hospital,  Worcester,  at  the  age  of 
71. 

With  Worcester  Works,  U.S.  Steel,  for 
over  30  years,  he  retired  when  the  com- 
pany closed.  He  was  born  on  Jan.  11, 1909 
in  Worcester,  and  was  a  member  of  the 
Class  of  1931. 

Mr.  Totas  was  a  registered  professional 
engineer  and  land  surveyor  in  Mas- 
sachusetts. He  was  a  member  of  the 
Greendale  Retired  Men's  Club,  Lithuanian 
Naturalization  and  Social  Club,  and  St.  Joan 
of  Arc  parish  and  its  Goodtimers  Club. 

Curtis  A.  Hedler,  '34,  of  Norwich,  Connect- 
icut, passed  away  recently. 

He  was  a  former  assistant  to  the  superin- 
tendent of  production  operations  at  the 
Northeast  Utilities  Service  Company  in  Be- 
rlin. Also,  during  his  career,  he  was  assistant 
plant  superintendent  for  Connecticut  Light 
and  Power  in  Uncasville,  Conn.,  and  former 
plant  superintendent  for  the  utility  at  the 
Montville  generating  station. 

A  member  of  the  Society  of  Professional 
Engineers,  Mr.  Hedler's  other  affiliations 
were  with  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon,  the  Masons, 
and  the  Boy  Scouts.  He  had  served  as  a  WPI 
class  agent.  He  was  born  on  May  16,  1911 
in  Taftville,  Conn.  In  1934  he  received  his 
BSEE  from  WPI. 

Robert  B.  Keith,  '38,  who  retired  eight 
years  ago  from  U.S.  Steel  Corp.,  died  in  Key 
West,  Florida,  on  February  5,  1980. 

He  was  born  in  Quincy,  Mass.,  on  Nov. 
22, 191 5,  and  later  graduated  as  an  electri- 
cal engineer.  He  was  associated  with  Amer- 
ican Steel  and  Wire  and  U.S.  Steel  during 
his  entire  career.  In  1972,  he  retired  as  an 
industrial  engineer. 

Mr.  Keith  was  a  registered  professional 
engineer  in  Ohio.  Active  with  the  Boy 
Scouts,  he  had  also  served  as  treasurer  of 
the  Cleveland  chapter  of  the  Alumni  Asso- 
ciation. 

Dr.  Roland  W.  Ure,  Jr.,  '46,  was  killed  in  a 
light  plane  crash  in  Utah  on  January  24, 
1980.  He  was  54  years  old. 

After  studying  at  WPI,  he  received  his  BS 
from  the  University  of  Michigan,  his  MS 
from  the  California  Institute  of  Technology, 
and  his  PhD  from  the  University  of 
Chicago.  For  nearly  twenty  years,  he  was  a 
physicist  at  Westinghouse.  In  1969,  he 
became  a  professor  of  electrical  engineer- 
ing, materials  science,  and  engineering  at 
the  University  of  Utah,  a  post  he  held  at  the 
time  of  his  death. 

Dr.  Ure  was  an  authority  on  thermalelec- 
tricity.  He  played  a  key  role  in  establishing 
the  Hedco  Micro  Electronic  Laboratory  in 
the  College  of  Engineering  at  the  University 
of  Utah.  He  had  served  as  editor  of  "Ther- 
malelectric  Devices,  Energy  Conversion." 


He  belonged  to  Lambda  Chi  Alpha,  Sigma 
Xi,  Phi  Kappa  Phi,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  and  IEEE 
(senior  member).  Other  affiliations  were 
with  the  American  Physical  Society  and  the 
American  Association  for  the  Advance- 
ment of  Science. 

A  native  of  New  York  City,  Dr.  Ure  was 
born  on  June  22,  1925.  He  held  two  pat- 
ents, and  was  the  author  of  numerous 
technical  and  scientific  papers,  as  well  as  a 
textbook  on  thermalelectricity. 

During  World  War  II,  Dr.  Ure  was  with 
the  Naval  Ordnance  Laboratory.  He  was 
active  with  the  Cooperative  Christian 
CampingGroupforwhich  heled  numerous 
backpacking  and  four-wheel  drive  trips.  He 
belonged  to  the  United  Church  of  Christ, 
and  served  as  president  of  the  Hercules 
Fliers. 

Bernard  Siegel,  '48,  of  Ipswich,  Mas- 
sachusetts, died  on  March  4,  1980. 

He  was  born  on  May  12, 1926,  in  Brook- 
lyn, N.Y.  In  1948,  he  graduated  as  a  me- 
chanical engineer  from  WPI  and  received 
his  MSME  from  Columbia  in  1949.  For 
many  years  he  was  with  General  Electric  in 
Lynn,  Mass.  He  was  a  member  of  AEPi, 
ASME,  andASNE. 

James  D.  Wilson,  '49,  a  former  chairman 
of  the  Board  of  Selectmen  in  Andover, 
Massachusetts,  died  on  February  19, 1980, 
at  Lawrence  General  Hospital  following  a 
short  illness. 

Born  in  Worcester  on  April  24,  1920,  he 
later  became  a  student  at  WPI.  In  1949  he 
graduated  with  his  BSME.  For  a  number  of 
years  he  worked  for  Laird  deVou,  Inc.,  of 
Cambridge,  which  he  served  as  salesman, 
treasurer-clerk,  and  engineering  consul- 
tant. 

A  registered  professional  engineer,  he 
was  past  president  of  the  Merrimac  Valley 
Society  of  Manufacturing  Engineers.  He 
was  a  Navy  veteran  of  World  War  II,  and  he 
was  active  with  the  Episcopal  Church,  the 
March  of  Dimes,  and  the  Boy  Scouts.  He 
belonged  to  the  Masons,  the  American 
Society  of  Tool  and  Manufacturing  En- 
gineer, and  Phi  Gamma  Delta. 


Richard  C.  Gillette,  '52,  president  of  Star 
Datacom,  Inc.,  McLean,  Virginia,  recently 
passed  away. 

He  graduated  as  an  electrical  engineer  in 
1952,  and  then  received  his  MA  from 
Trinity  College.  Among  his  employers  over 
the  years,  were  Aries  Corp.,  U.S.  Industries, 
Lewis  Dobrow  &  Lamb,  Wilson,  Haight  & 
Welch,  Inc.,  the  Bristol  Co.,  United  Aircraft 
Corp.,  Motorola,  and  Telecheck. 

A  member  of  the  American  Economic 
Association,  he  also  belonged  to  the  Asso- 
ciation of  Industrial  Advertisers,  Phi  Kappa 
Theta,  and  Pi  Delta  Epsilon.  He  was  a 
former  president  of  the  Washington  (D.C.) 
chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association. 

Mr.  Gillette  served  as  an  ensign  in  the 
U.S.  Navy  from  1952  to  1954.  He  was 
associated  with  the  U.S.  Naval  Institute,  the 
U.S.  Navy  League,  the  American  Platform 
Association,  and  the  National  Yacht  Club. 
He  was  named  to  "Who's  Who  in  the 
South  and  Southeast." 

Francis  G.  Scarbeau,  SIM  '63,  passed  away 
in  St.  Vincent  Hospital,  Worcester,  at  the 
age  of  53. 

He  was  comptroller  at  NYPRO,  Inc.  in 
Clinton,  Mass.  Earlier,  he  had  been  assist- 
ant controller  at  Riley  Stoker,  which  he 
joined  as  an  accountant  in  1953.  In  1956 
he  was  named  accounting  supervisor  and 
in  1957,  accounting  manager. 

Mr.  Scarbeau  was  a  native  of  Worcester, 
and  graduated  from  New  England  School 
of  Accounting. 

Raffi  H.  Hollisian,  '77,  died  of  heart  failure 
in  Boulder,  Colorado,  on  March  1,  1980. 
After  WPI,  he  went  to  the  University  of 
Colorado,  where  he  was  studying  mathe- 
matics and  history.  Last  summer  he  toured 
several  foreign  countries  including  Ar- 
menia, which  enriched  his  strong  attach- 
ments to  his  Armenian  heritage. 


48  /  Summer  1980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


_. 


R*5  HOMECOMING  OCTOBER 3-5  HOMECOMING  OCTOBER 3-5  HOM 
OCTOBER  3-5  HOMECOMING  OCTOBER  3-5  HOMECOMING  OCTOBER 
;OMINGOCTOBER3-5  HOMECOMING  OCTOBER3-5  HOMECOMING  OC 

COMING  OCTOBER  3-5  H 
5  HOMECOMING  OCTOB 
OBER  3-5  HOMECOMING 
sIG  OCTOBER  3-5  HOM  EC 
IECOMING  OCTOBER  3-5 
3-5  HOMECOMING  OCTO 
DBER  3-5  HOMECOMING  OCTOBER  3-5HOMECOMIN 

IIG  OCTOBER  3-5  HOMECOMING  OCTOBER  3-5  HOM 
IECOMING  OCTOBER  3-5  HOMECOMING  OCTOBER 
3-5HOMECOMINGOCTOBER3-5HOMECOMINGOC 
nOBER  3-5  HOMECOMING  OCTOBER  3-5  HOMECO 
MING  OCTOBER 3-5  HOM ECOM I NG  OCTOBER 3-5  H 
OM ECOM I NG  OCTOBER 3-5  HOMECOMING  OCTOB 
SHOMF^MING  -5  HOMECOMING 


5  HOM  ECOM  I 
TOBER3-5I 
OMING  OCTO 
5  HOMECOMIN* 
OCTOBER  3-5  HOM  Ef 


LtjM  flLWitiitjsia; 


HOMECOMINGOCT 
BER3-5HOMECOMIN 
G  OCTOBER  3-5  HOM" 
ECOMINGOCTOBI 
3-5  HOMECOMING 
TOBER  3^5  H ' 
MING  OCTO 
OMECOMIN 
ER  3-5  HOME  _ 


H 


ME 





OCTOBER3-5  HOMECOMING  OCTOBEF 

OMING  OCTOBER  3-5  HOMECOMING  O 

HOMECOMING  OCTOB 

BER  3-5  HOMECOMING 

G  OCTOBER  3-5  HOM  EC 

ECOMING  OCTOBER  3-5  HOMECOMING  OC 

3-5  HOMECOMING  OCTOBER3-5HOMECOM 

TOBER  3-5  HOMECOMING  OCTOBr 

MING  OCTOBER  3-5  HOM  ECOM  INC 

OM  ECOMING  OCTOBER  3-f 

ER  3-5  HOME' 

OCTOBER3-J 

OMING  OCTC 

HOMECOMir 

BER  3-5  HOMB 

G  OCTOBER  3-5  HOM 

ECOMING  OCTOBER, 

3-5HOMECOMINGOCTL 


ajffljiia 


■    IiIN  {•]:]: 


CQMIN 
HOMECOMIN 

IN 


TOBER  3-5  HOMECOMING 

MING  OCTOBEF 

OM  ECOMING' 

ER  3-5  HOME 

OCTOBER3-6 

OMING  OCTC 

HOMECOMir 

BER  3-5  HOM  _ 

G  OCTOBER  3-5  HO. 

ECOMING  OCTOBE 

3-5  HOMECOMING  C 

TOBER  3-5  HOM ECOk 


HwlVlfc 

HOME 
ME 
OU 


BECOMING  OCTOBER 3-5  HOMEC 
(3-5  HOMECOMING  OCTOBER  3-5 
:TOBER3-5  HOMECOMING  OCTO 
VIING  OCTOBER  3-5  HOMECOMIN 
OMECOMING  OCTOBER  3-5  HOM 
>  HOMECOMING  OCTOBER 
>BER3-5  HOMECOMING  OC 
TR  3-5  HOMECO 
OCTOBER  3-5  H 
DOMING  OCTOB 
HOMECOMING 
BER  3-5  HOM  EC 
G  OCTOBER  3-5 
COMING  OCTO 
13-5  HOM  ECOM  \l 
4G  OCTOBER  3-5  HON 
>JEC  )MII 

R3-5  HOMECOMING  OC 

j  OCTOBER  3-5  HOMECO 

IECOMING  OCTOBER 3-5' 


*m*M  U  L«J  l\ 


HOM  EC 
OBER  3-5  HOM 
,n/IING  OCTOBER 
IOMECOM" 
OBER  3-5  HO... 

)M  I  NG  OCTOBER  3-5  HOM  ECOMING  OCTC 

-5  HOMECOMIN 

OBER  3-5  HOM  E( 

G  OCTOBER  3- 

COMINGOCT( 

5  HOMECOMir 

OBER  3-5  HOf 

l  NG  OCTOBE 

COMINGOi 


MyjgtMMiig[ci»itiMsfagB 


MIN 
MIN 
MIN 


m  :r  3-5  HOMECO 

31  i^X  il^^^JLi_       WA^i'  C 

BEH3-5HOMtCOMlNGOClOBhH3-5HOMECul\ 

BECOMING  OCTOBER3-5  HOMECOMING  OCTOBER  3-5  HOMECOMIN* 

^5  HOM  ECOM  I  NG  OCTOBER  3-5  HOM  ECOM  I  NG  OCTOBER  3-5  HOM  B 

OBER  3-5  HOMECOMING  OCTOBER  3-5  HOMECOMING  OCTOBER  3-. 

NGOCTOBER3-5HOMECOMINGOCTOBER3-5HOMECOMINGOCTO 

"COMING  OCTOBER 3-5  HOMECOMING  OCTOBER 3-5  HOMECOMIN 

^MECOMING  OCTOBER  3-5  HOMECOMING  OCTOBER  3-5  HOK 

!R  3-5  HOMECOMING  OCTOBER  3-5  HOMECOMING  OCTOBE, 

-v-roBER  3-5  HOM  ECOM  I  NG  OCTOBER  3-5  HOM  ECOM  I  NGO( 

G  OCTOBER  3-5  HOMECOMING  OCTOBER  3-5  HOMECC 

ECOMING  OCTOBER 3-5  HOMECOMING  OCTOBER 3-5  H 

5  HOMECOMING  OCTOBER 3-5  HOMECOMING  OCTOB 

tER3-5HOMECOMINGOCTOBER3-5  HOMECOMING 
OCTOBER3-5  HOMECOMING  OCTOBER  3-5  HOM  EC 
CM  I  NG  OCTOBER  3-5  HOM  ECOMING  OCTOBER  3-* 


!  f  •  1  kfi  I  a«  •  1  kTi  1 1  fl  rCf  ATM  ■ •  1  w  a  glelrl  5  m 1  M  I  si 


Fall  1980 


Trustee  petitions  now  being 
requested 

Each  year,  the  WPI  Alumni  Associa- 
tion has  the  opportunity  to  nomi- 
nate three  alumni  to  serve  as 
Alumni  Term  Members  of  the  WPI 
Board  of  Trustees.  Paul  W.  Bayliss, 
'60,  of  Barrington,  111.,  chairman  of 
the  Alumni  Association's  Trustee 
Search  Committee,  has  recently 
announced  that  his  committee  is 


WORCESTER  POLYTECHNIC 
INSTITUTE 


Presents 


YOCIR  CHOICE  OF  ONE  OR  TWO  WEEKS  IN 


HAWAII  »$ 699* 


DEPARTING  FROM  BOSTON  &  NEW  YORK  WEDNESDAY,  MARCH  18,  1981. 
RETURNING  WEDNESDAY,  MARCH  25,  1981. 

Your  Vacation  Includes 

•  Round-trip  Jet  Transportation  Via  comfortable,  wide-bodied  United  Airlines  jet  with  in-flight  dining. 

•  All  Flight  Reservations  and  Tickets. 

•  Pre  registration  at  your  Motels. 

•  First-class  Hotel  Accommodations  lor  seven  nights  at  the  modern  PACIFIC  BEACH  HOTEL. 

•  A  Half-day  Sightseeing  Tour  ol  the  Highlights  of  Honolulu. 

•  All  Transfers  and  Baggage  Handling  between  Airports  and  Hotels. 

•  An  Informal  Educational  Briefing  to  acquaint  you  with  the  Optional  Tours  and  Scenic  Highlights. 

•  All  Taxes  and  Tipping  for  Services  included  in  the  Program. 

•  Complimentary  Hospitality  Desk  staffed  by  Trans  National  Travel's  representatives. 

•  A  special  6  night  Outer  Island  Extension  is  available  which  includes  Deluxe  Hotel  Accommodations  for  3 
nights  at  the  MAUI  SURF.  2  nights  at  the  KONA  SURF,  and  f  night  at  the  NANILOA  SURF.  Only  $299.00  plus 
15%  tax  and  services. 

•  A  variety  of  Optional  Tours  are  available. 

•  A  Deluxe  Hotel  Option  is  available  in  Honolulu  at  the  Hawaiian  Regent  Hotel.  $89  00  per  person. 

•  Special  Dining  Option:  6  American  Breakfasts  and  6  dinners  in  Hawaii.  $129.00  per  person. 

NO  REGIMENTATION    YOU  ARE  FREE  TO  EXPLORE  HAWAII  AS  YOU  PLEASE' 
•Plus  15%  Tax  and  Services.  Based  on  Double  Occupancy  Single  Supplement  $2">0  00  /  $450  00 

.  *.  *Jr  -Ar  *utr  "ilf  tlr  -itf  *ilr  iir  *X*  ~Ji~  *A»  -X-  *%1-  -A-  *A*  ■»1»  »A*  -Jr^^^l*  -Jr-  *X»  -A-  -If  »&*  *jl>  ii.  -I-  ,jl»  *x*  -x-  -X*  •■A*  »X*  ■"■A*  *A*  ?A*  *i'  ~Jf*  ~lf  ^fe ^fe ^fc* ^M  ^ie  "A*  *L*  *^  MC  ^f  MB  MB  MB  Mt  MB  MS 
*IE9|C9IE9K3Ki9K  3|C9IC3|«  ^f»  ^f»  ^^  ^f*  ^^  ^p  ^p  ^r*  ^r*  ^^^r*^p^r^  ^p  ^^  ^r^  ^p  ^p  ^p  ^p  ^p  ^p  ^p  ^^  *P  ^p  ^p  ^p^p  ^p^p^p  ^p  ^p  ^p  ^p  ^p  ^p  ^p  ^p  ^^^p^p  ^^^r*^n  ^n  ^r* 


DEPARTING 

March  18,  1981 
March  18,  1981 


RETURNING 

March  25,  1981 
March  25,  1981 


DEPARTURE  CITY 

Boston 

New  York  (JFK) 


PRICE 

$699.00  +  15%  ($104.85)  =  $803.85 
$699.00  +  15%  ($104.85)  =  $803.85 


NOTE:  When  registering  less  than  60  days  prior  to  departure,  lull  payment  is  required  to  reserve  seat. 

Enclosed  please  find  $ as  deposit  for_  number  of  persons  ($150  00  per  person). 

Enclosed  please  find  $ as  full  payment  for number  of  persons 


Please  charge  my        deposit 


full  payment  to.         MASTERCHARGE 


VISA 


Account  ft:    D    D    D    □'□    □    □"□    0    0    0    0    0    □"□  Expiration  date:    Q    D'O    D 

Signature: 

I  want  the  Special  Dining  Option  (add  $12900  to  my  final  payment) 

I  want  the  Deluxe  Hotel  Option  (add  $89.00  to  my  final  payment) 

I  want  the  Outer  Island  Option  (add  $299  00  plus  15%  tax  and  services  to  my  final  payment). 


Departure  Date: 

I  am  reserving 


_number  of  seats  (       Smoking 


Departure  City: 


Non-Smoking) 


II  more  than  one  couple,  attach  a  separate  list  with  complete  information  as  below 

FULL  NAME  STREET     


CITY 


PLEASE  PRINT 

STATE 


ZIP 


TEL. NO. HOME! 


TEL  NO  OFFICE  (_ 


Single  Occupancy  (add  $250.00  lor  the  one-week  program  or  $450  00  for  the  two-week  program  to  my  final  payment) 
If  sharing  a  room  with  another  person,  name: 


MAKE  CHECK  OR  MONEY  ORDER  PAYABLE  TO   Guaranty  Bank  &  Trust  Co. 
PLEASE  RETURN  TO:  Stephen  J.  Hebert 

Alumni  Office 

Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute 

Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609 


FOR  INFORMATION  OR  RESERVATIONS  CALL  TOLL-FREE 

617  753-1411        Alumni  Ollice 

800-952-7477       Hawaii  Department 

Weekdays  8:30  a.m.  to  9:00  p.m.(EST) 
Or  Saturday  9:00  a.m.  to  3:00  p.m.(EST) 


now  receiving  petitions  for  consider- 
ation and  nomination  for  8-year 
terms  beginning  in  July  1981. 
Alumni  may  submit  petitions  on  or 
before  December  1,  1980,  and  they 
should  be  mailed  to  Mr.  Bayliss  c/o 
the  WPI  Alumni  Office,  Boynton 
Hall,  Institute  Road,  Worcester, 
Mass.  01609.  Questions  regarding 
procedures  for  the  formal  submis- 
sion of  proposals  should  be  directed 
to  Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66.  alumni 
secretary-treasurer  at  WPI 
(617-753-1411). 

Of  the  three  terms  concluding 
in  1981,  only  one  incumbent  is  seek- 
ing renomination.  Thus  at  least  two 
more  alumni  must  be  proposed  for 
the  ballot  which  will  be  voted  on  by 
the  WPI  Alumni  Council  on  March 
14,  1981.  The  incumbent  is  Walter  J. 
Bank,  '46,  of  Bethesda,  Md.,  who  is 
marketing  manager  of  Syscon  Cor- 
poration of  America,  in  Washington, 
DC. 


Attention  small  businesses! 

The  Alumni  Association  recently 
received  a  request  from  the  Department 
of  Defense  for  names  and  addresses  of 
alumni  involved  in  small,  high- 
technology  businesses.  Rather  than 
attempt  to  define  those  alumni,  and  in 
line  with  our  policy  of  not  supplying 
addresses  of  alumni  to  those  outside  the 
WPI  community,  we  are  passing  along 
the  request  here  in  the  Journal. 

The  Office  of  the  Under  Secretary  of 
Defense  for  Research  and  Engineering  will  be 
announcing  within  the  next  few  months  a 
new  program  to  increase  the  nation's  innova- 
tive research  and  development  capabilities.  To 
do  this,  we  must  increase  the  participation  of 
small,  U.S.,  high-technology  businesses  in 
DOD  research,  development,  test  and  evalua- 
tion efforts.  The  program  will  emphasize  sim- 
plified proposal  preparation  and  will  encourage 
innovative  approaches  to  high-technology 
national  defense  needs. 

If  your  firm  is  interested  in  receiving 
ftitLire  mailings  of  information  about  this  pro- 
gram, please  write  to: 

Mr.  Hal  C.  Felscher 

Director,  Small  Business  &  Economic 
Utilization  Policy  Office 

Under  Secretary  of  Defense  for  Research  ar 
Engineering 

Room  2A340 

The  Pentagon 

Washington,  DC.  20301 


IIIPI 


1  Fall  1980 

— 

mMma 

Till 

IN  THIS  ISSUE: 


2        Fall  sports:  Off  to  a  rousing  start 


4        Shipping  out  with  the  President's  Advisory  Council 

Sending  off  the  Tall  Ships  and  saying  thanks  to  some  veryspe- 
cial  people. 


10     Biomedical  Engineering— The  human  side  of  technology 

A  brief  look  at  what  may  be  the  oldest  of  WPI's  non-traditional 
programs. 


13     On  butterfly  wings,  this  time  . .  . 

Yet  another  WPI  connection  to  those  human-powered  aircraft 


14     Give  the  job  to  a  busy  man! 


15     Eager  beaver? 


16     Your  class  and  others 


30     Completed  careers 


Editor: 

H.  Russell  Kay 

Alumni  Information  Editor:  Ruth  S.  Trask 

Designer:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Typesetting:  County  Photo  Compositing, 
Inc.,  Jefferson,  Mass.,  and  Davis  Press,  Inc., 
Worcester,  Mass. 

Printing:  Davis  Press,  Inc.,  Worcester,  Mass. 

Alumm  Publications  Committee:  Donald  E. 
Ross,  '54,  chairman;  Robert  C.  Gosling,  '68; 
Sidney  Madwed,  '49;  Samuel  W.  Mencow,  '37; 
Kathleen  Molony,  '77;  Stanley  P.  Negus,  Jr., 

'54- 


Address  all  correspondence  to  the  Editor,  The 
WPI  Joumcd,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute, 
Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609.  Telephone 

(617)753-1411. 

The  WPI  Journal  is  published  for  the  WPI 
Alumni  Association  by  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute.  Copyright  ©  1980  by  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute.  All  rights  reserved. 

The  WPI  Journal  (usps  issn  no.  0148-6128)  is 
published  five  times  a  year,  quarterly  plus  a 
catalog  issue  (identified  as  no.  2)  in  September. 
Second  Class  postage  paid  at  Worcester,  Mas- 
sachusetts. 


WPI  ALUMNI  ASSOCIATION 

President:  John  H.  McCabe,  '68 

Senior  Vice  President:  Peter  H.  Horstmann,  '55 

Vice  President:  Clark  Poland,  '48 

Secretary-Treasurer:  Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President:  William  A.  Julian,  '49 

Executive  Committee  member s-at-large: 
Philip  B.  Ryan,  '65;  Donald  E.  Ross,  '54; 
Anson  C.  Fyler,  '45;  Harry  W.  Tenney,  Jr.,  '56 

Fund  Board:  Henry  Styskal,  Jr.,  '50,  chair- 
man; Richard  B.  Kennedy,  '65,  vice  chairman; 
Gerald  Finkle,  '57;  Philip  H.  Puddington,  '59; 
Richard  A.  Davis,  '53;  C.  John  Lindegren,  '39; 
JohnH.  Tracy,  '52 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Fall  1980  /  1 


Fall  Sports: 


Off  to  a  rousing  start! 


by  Mark  Mandel 

WPI  Sports  Information  Director 

If  the  WPI  sports  year  continues  as  it 
has  in  the  first  half  of  the  fall  season, 
it  will  be  the  most  successful  in 
many,  many  years. 

The  football  team's  3-1  record 
marks  its  best  start  since  1968, 
when  the  Engineers  went  5-2.  WPI 
opened  the  season  with  a  loss,  23-6 
to  Norwich,  but  rebounded  and  won 
the  next  three  games:  14-0  over 
Coast  Guard,  7-5  over  Colby,  and 
37-0  over  Western  Connecticut  State 
College  before  a  cheering  Homecom- 
ing crowd  of  alumni  and  students. 

"We  are  pleased  with  our  efforts 
during  the  first  half  of  the  season," 
said  head  coach  Bob  Weiss.  "But  we 
would  sure  like  to  play  that  first 
game  over  again!" 

As  the  scores  indicate,  the  Engi- 
neers have  won  on  the  strength  of 
the  defense.  After  giving  up  all  23 
points  to  Norwich  in  the  first  half  of 
that  game,  the  defense  limited  its 
opponents  to  just  5  points  in  the 
next  three  and  one-half  games. 


Offensively,  a  switch  that  has 
moved  tri-captain  Bob  Montagna  to 
halfback  and  freshman  Mark  Lefeb- 
vre  to  quarterback  has  been  quite 
effective.  But  the  bulk  of  the  offen- 
sive load  has  fallen  on  the  shoulders 
of  sophomore  halfback  Jim  Leonardo 
.  .  .  and  he  has  responded.  Jim  leads 
New  England  small  colleges  in  scor- 
ing (5  TDs)  and  won  the  prestigious 
Gold  Helmet  Award  (given  by  the 
New  England  Football  Writer's  Asso- 
ciation to  the  most  outstanding  per- 
formers in  New  England  college 
football)  for  his  4-touchdown  perfor- 
mance in  WPI's  win  over  Western 
Connecticut. 

"The  second  half  of  the  season 
should  be  a  good  test  for  us,"  con- 
tinues Coach  Weiss.  "Bates,  RPI, 
Hamilton,  and  Lowell — our  next 
opponents — are  all  formidable 
teams.  However,  I  feel  that  we  can 
do  well  in  each  and  every  one  of  the 
remaining  games.  If  the  spirit  and 
the  togetherness  that  we  showed  in 
the  last  three  games  continues  over 
the  next  four,  there  is  no  question 
that  this  team  will  produce  one  of 
the  best  records  in  years." 

Unexpectedly,  the  soccer  team 
(4-0-1)  is  also  having  one  of  its  better 
years.  Despite  losing  WPI's  third  all- 
time  scorer,  Leo  Kaabi,  to  gradua- 
tion, Coach  Alan  King  has  brought 
his  team  to  its  highest  rankings  in 
WPI  history— 12th  in  the  country 
and  2nd  in  New  England. 

The  offensive  punch,  supplied 
by  Kaabi  last  year  ( 1 7  of  WPI's  35 
goals),  has  been  provided  by  mid- 
fielder Micky  Nallen  (3  goals,  4 
assists)  and  forward  Tony  Pileggi  (4 
goals).  The  defense,  led  by  captain 


Dennis  Wysocki  and  goalie  Jim 
Eilenberger,  has  lived  up  to  its  expec- 
tations. The  Engineers  have  given  up 
only  three  goals  in  the  first  five 
games. 

"I'm  not  yet  convinced  that  this 
is  a  great  team — we  still  have  the 
toughest  part  of  the  schedule  ahead 
of  us,"  said  head  coach  Alan  King. 
'But  we  are  beginning  to  play  like  a 
team,  and  I  have  high  hopes  for  the 
remainder  of  the  year." 

The  women's  tennis  team  has  qui- 
etly but  quickly  taken  itself  from 
infancy,  just  a  year  ago,  to  respecta- 
bility. Under  the  tutelage  of  Marcia 
Kenedey,  the  Engineers  won  their 
first  six  matches  and  have  a  7-3 
record  halfway  through  the  sched- 
ule. 

The  key  to  the  early  success  can 
be  found  in  the  team's  depth.  The 
engineer  lineup,  from  top  to  bottom, 
is  stocked  with  very  capable  players. 
First  singles  player  Lisa  Longwell 
(7-3  record);  second  singles  Debbie 
Biederman  (6-4);  and  first  doubles 
Cindy  Gagnon  and  Leslie  Cornwall 
(4-2)  are  the  cream  of  the  crop.  But 
everyone  plays,  everyone  contrib- 
utes, and  the  result  is  a  very  reward- 
ing season. 

The  cross-country  team,  riddled  by 
graduation,  is  having  a  tough  go  of  it. 
Its  2-5  record  should  improve  as  the 
young  team  gets  further  into  the  sea- 
son. 

The  women's  volleyball  team  is 
1-2  and  will  play  the  bulk  of  its 
schedule  later  in  the  fall. 


2  /Fall  1980/  The  WPI  journal 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Fall  1980/3 


imiilj  'i  ijwj 


Shipping  Out 

with  the 

President's  Advisory  Council 


It  started  out  as  a  part  of  a  time- 
worn  device  used  by  many  col- 
leges to  help  raise  money  for  the 
Annual  Alumni  Fund.  It  has  become 
something  much  more  valuable  and 
significant  for  WPI. 

In  1972  a  special  category  of  giv- 
ing to  the  college  by  alumni  and  par- 
ents was  created  for  the  first  time: 
those  who  had  given  the  Alumni 
Fund  or  the  Parents  Fund  $1,000  or 
more,  or  who  had  made  a  one-time 
gift  of  $10,000  or  more,  were  recog- 
nized with  membership  in  a  newly 
formed  group  called  the  President's 
Advisory  Council. 


Photographs  by  Michael  A.  DiPierro,  '68, 
and  Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66 


Now,  many  colleges  have  done 
similar  kinds  of  things  to  help  stim- 
ulate such  major  giving  by  alumni 
and  parents.  Such  recognition  usu- 
ally takes  the  form  of  a  special  certif- 
icate, or  plaque,  or  some  other 
physical  memento,  suitably 
inscribed  or  engraved.  But  Thomas  J. 
Denney,  vice  president  for  university 
relations,  and  Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66, 
alumni  director,  didn't  want  the 
PAC  to  be  just  another  "me-too" 
program. 

"People  who  make  gifts  of  that 
magnitude,"  says  Denney,  "are 
showing  a  very  real  commitment  to 
WPI  and  to  what  we  stand  for.  For  us 
merely  to  turn  around  and  give  them 
something  like  an  engraved  paper- 
weight as  a  way  of  saying  'thanks'  — 
well,  it  just  didn't  seem  to  me  to  be  a 
meaningful  enough  gesture.  Instead, 
we  decided  to  try  and  capitalize  on 
the  commitment  of  these  donors  to 
WPI  by  asking  them  for  more  than 
just  money. 


4/ Fall  1 980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


■  -»~^ 


"We  tried  to  think  of  a  suitable 
structure,  a  vehicle  with  which  we 
could  tap  the  wealth  of  knowledge 
and  experience  these  successful  indi- 
viduals had  amassed  in  their 
careers,"  Denney  continues.  "Yet 
we  wanted  to  do  it  in  a  way  that 
wouldn't  conflict  with  the  normal 
day-to-day  operations  and  policy- 
setting  functional  areas  of  the  col- 
lege, which  properly  rest  with  the 
college  administration  and  the  Board 
of  Trustees,  respectively.  And  we 
didn't  want  to  take  up  too  much  of 
the  time  of  these  busy  and  con- 
cerned people." 


The  end  product  was  the 
President's  Advisory  Council, 
a  group  which  would  be 
invited  to  the  campus  annually  to 
meet  with  the  president  of  the  col- 
lege and  discuss  a  specific  topic  of 
concern. 

To  help  form  the  charter  group 
of  PAC  members,  Len  White,  '41, 
head  of  R.H.  White  Construction 
Co.,  Inc.,  pitched  in  to  head  up  the 
recruitment  drive.  An  attractive 
invitation  to  membership  was  pre- 
pared and  mailed  to  approximately 
80  alumni  who  were  considered 
prospects  for  the  PAC.  In  that  first 
year,  38  people  joined  the  group. 
(Compare  this  with  the  17  people 
who  had  contributed  at  the  level  of 
the  PAC  the  year  before.)  They  were 
invited  to  campus  that  winter,  for  a 
stimulating  discussion  with  Presi- 
dent George  Hazzard.  The  theme  of 
that  meeting  was  the  problems  fac- 
ing higher  education  in  the  1970s, 
including  financing  college  opera- 


tions, student  expenses,  and  attract- 
ing sufficient  numbers  of  students  in 
the  face  of  an  imminent  decline  in 
the  college-age  population. 

The  PAC  program  was  off  and 
running.  It  was  so  successful,  in 
both  leadership  and  financial  terms, 
that  Denney  and  Hebert  and  White 
wanted  to  find  another  way  of  saying 
'thanks'  to  this  generous  group  of 
involved  and  committed  alumni. 
What  they  decided  has  evolved  into 
the  other  main  tradition  of  the  PAC, 
an  annual  recognition  function.  It 
started  off  simply  enough,  with  a 
desire  to  hold  a  truly  elegant  dinner, 
with  cuisine  and  setting  appropriate 
to  the  stature  and  prestige  of  the 
group. 

Barbara  Hall,  special  events 
coordinator,  located  a  suitable 
caterer  and  the  evening  was  staged 
in  the  great  hall  of  the  Higgins 
House,  which  had  just  recently 
become  a  part  of  the  WPI  campus. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Fall  1980/5 


■■■»* 


MW 


THE  ANNUAL  DISCUSSIONS  with 
the  president  have  continued. 
Over  the  years  they  have 
touched  on  student  housing,  the 
Football  Committee's  findings  and 
report,  Title  IX  and  equal  athletic 
facilities  for  women,  the  greening  of 
the  campus,  and  plans  for  WPI's 
physical  plant. 

The  dinners  have  continued,  as 
well,  and  they  have  become  a  very 
special  annual  event.  In  1975  some- 
one got  the  idea  of  staging  a  "Feder- 
alist" dinner  at  Old  Sturbridge 
Village,  recreating  the  supper  served 
at  George  Washington's  inaugura- 
tion. Well,  it  turned  out  that  the 
menu  had  to  be  altered  somewhat, 
but  the  combination  of  the  nine- 
teenth-century setting  and  enter- 
tainment, plus  the  feeling  of 
community  created  by  being  with 
others  who  cared  about  the  future  of 
WPI,  made  the  day  something  very 
special  for  those  PAC  members  who 
attended. 

The  next  question  became, 
"How  could  the  PAC  follow  that 
kind  of  act  for  the  next  year?"  With 
great  difficulty  and  ingenuity,  that's 
how.  For  1976,  the  group  was 
addressed  by  a  special  assistant  to 
the  Montreal  Olympic  Games  Com- 
mittee. In  1979,  another  dinner  was 
staged  at  Sturbridge,  this  one 
focused  around  the  theme  of  recreat- 
ing the  'Junto,'  a  group  of  intellec- 
tuals founded  by  Benjamin  Franklin, 
who  gathered  periodically  to  imbibe 
and  to  solve  the  world's  problems. 
Franklin,  as  an  inventor  and  early 
technologist,  seemed  a  suitable 
choice  for  a  WPI  group,  and  the 
group  was  welcomed  by  Ben  himself 
(well,  actually  by  an  actor  perform- 
ing a  one-man  show) . 


In  1979,  after  heading  up  the 
organization  for  eight  years,  Len 
White  turned  over  the  reins  of 
the  PAC  chairmanship  to  Richard  A. 
Davis,  '53,  president  of  Thermos 
Division,  King-Seely  Thermos  Co. 
White  is  currently  serving  on  the 
Physical  Facilities  Committee  of  the 
WPI  Board  of  Trustees  and  is  corpo- 
rate chairman  of  WPI's  current  capi- 
tal funds  program. 

For  1980,  the  PAC  had  one  of  its 
finest  days  ever.  By  now,  the  group 
had  grown  to  more  than  150  mem- 
bers, and  it  was  getting  harder  and 
harder  to  'top'  the  previous  year's 
PAC  function.  But  1980  happened  to 
be  Boston's  350th  birthday.  As  a 
present  to  Boston,  the  Tall  Ships — 
which  had  so  thrilled  the  city  and 
nation  in  1976 — returned  for  a  few 
days'  visit  to  Boston  Harbor  topped 
off  by  a  sailing  race  to  Norway. 

President  Edmund  T.  Cranch 
welcomed  President's  Advisory 
Council  members  to  some  of  the 
best  seats  in  the  house,  on  a  spe- 
cially chartered  boat,  as  the  Tall 
Ships  sailed  out  of  the  harbor  and 
readied  for  the  start  of  the  race  on 
June  4.  Two  PAC  members  flew  in 
from  California,  one  from  Washing- 
ton, and  another  from  his  home  in 
the  Caribbean,  specially  for  the 
event. 

The  editor  of  the  Journal  hap- 
pened to  be  leaving  campus  late  on 
the  afternoon  of  the  4th,  just  as  the 
buses  were  returning  from  the  Tall 
Ships  cruise,  so  he  wandered  over  to 
Harrington  Auditorium  in  time  to 
see  the  group  disembark.  "In  ten 
years  at  WPI,"  he  commented,  "I 
have  never  seen  such  an  excited  and 
enthusiastic  crowd.  They  came  out 
of  the  buses  walking  on  air,  it 
seemed  like.  You  could  tell  that 
they'd  had  a  great  day,  with  the  Tall 
Ships  and  with  each  other." 


Over  the  years,  the  PAC  has 
grown  considerably  in 
numbers.  And  in  doing  so  it 
has  managed  to  develop  a  sense  of 
community  among  its  members 
while  successfully  avoiding  any  hint 
of  elitism.  As  PAC  members  have 
come  to  know  one  another,  as  they 
have  candidly  shared  their  opinions 
at  the  annual  discussions  with  the 
president,  as  they  have  enjoyed  the 
annual  functions,  and  as  they  have 
welcomed  newcomers  into  their 
midst  each  year,  the  PAC  has  indeed 
become  a  vital  force  within  the  WPI 
community. 

PAC  members  come  in  all  sorts. 
They  range  in  age  from  the  class  of 
1913  to  the  class  of  1974.  They 
include  parents  of  students  and 
alumni  in  the  classes  of  '77  through 
'83.  Their  numbers  include  busi- 
nessmen, engineers,  entrepreneurs, 
contractors,  attorneys,  and  members 
of  the  WPI  faculty.  They  live  across 
the  continent,  from  Anaheim  to 
Aruba.  They  give  of  themselves — 
their  resources,  their  knowledge, 
their  commitment,  their  time,  and 
their  love  for  WPI. 


6/ Fall  1 980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


:  t 


' 


/ 


DiPierro 


Above:  On  the  Tall  Ships,  people  can 
look  mighty  small. 

Below:  And  you  thought  Main  Street 
was  crowded  .... 


8  /  Fall  1980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


Hchcrt 


Above  left:  Tom  Dcnncy,  vice  president 
for  university  relations,  shares  a  moment 
with  Julius  Palley,  '46. 

Above  right:  Professor  Ray  Hagglund, 
who  holds  the  Kenneth  G.  Merriam  Pro- 
fessorship in  Mechanical  Engineering, 
enjoys  the  day  with  Bill  Steur,  '35,  who 
endowed  the  faculty  position  in  honor  of 
the  former  head  of  WPI's  Aeromechanics 
Option  program  in  the  30s  and  40s. 

Below:  The  contrast  of  the  18th  and  the 
20th  centuries  is  evident  in  Boston  Har- 
bor. 


DiPierro 


r  f 


/•    u 


•  r  c..™ 


■P  m 


■■I 


ma  — ■  ■       m    " 


I" 


|Wi     ma 


vmr 


DiPierro 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Fall  1980/9 


IHF^" 


BIOMEDICAL  ENGINEERING  - 
The  human  side  of  technology 


As  the  oldest  of  the  'non- 
traditional'  fields  at  WPI, 
L  biomedical  engineering  has 
been  around  since  the  mid-1960s.  In 
that  time  it  has  emerged  as  an  inno- 
vative yet  mature  program  that  cuts 
across  many  of  the  traditional  disci- 
plinary boundaries. 

The  recent  death  of  Richard  G. 
Beschle,  associate  professor  and  one 
of  the  founders  of  the  program, 
marks  the  end  of  what  we  might 
describe  as  the  "first  stage"  of  bio- 
medical engineering  education  at 
WPI.  It  is  an  appropriate  time  to  take 
a  brief  look  at  where  the  program  has 
come  from  and  what  it  is  doing 
today. 


Biomedical  engineering  is  the 
application  of  engineering 
principles  and  methods  to 
problems  in  medicine.  As  engineer- 
ing fields  go,  this  is  a  fairly  new  one. 
Though  where  you  mark  the  begin- 
nings of  the  field  depends  somewhat 
on  how  you  define  its  limits 
(Roentgen's  use  of  x-rays,  for  exam- 
ple, might  be  considered  one  of  the 
earliest  instances  of  biomedical  engi- 
neering), there  were  no  educational 
programs  to  train  professional  bio- 
medical engineers  until  the  1950s. 

WPI  doesn't  really  offer  an 
undergraduate  program  in  the  way 
that  some  other  colleges  do,  and  in 
fact  biomedical  engineering  isn't 
even  a  separate  department,  being 
instead  an  interdisciplinary  program 
which  uses  faculty  members  who 
also  have  joint  appointments  with 


other  departments.  Prof.  Robert  A. 
Peura,  '64,  coordinator  of  the  pro- 
gram, states  its  philosophy  thus: 

"Some  schools  offer  a  number 
of  undergraduate  courses  in  the  bio- 
medical area,  but  they  attempt  to 
cover  such  a  breadth  of  material  that 
the  student  never  gets  any  real  depth 
in  any  one  area.  We  encourage  our 
students  to  major  in  the  department 
that  reflects  their  basic  interests — 
mechanical  engineering,  electrical 
engineering,  computer  science, 
chemical  engineering — and  then 
supplement  that  work  with  life  sci- 
ence courses  and,  finally,  if  they 
choose,  select  from  our  senior-  and 
graduate-level  biomedical  engineer- 
ing courses. 

"Most  of  our  emphasis  at  the 
undergraduate  level  is  through  the 
project  work,  particularly  projects 
done  at  the  two  hospital  internship 
centers  we  maintain,  at  St.  Vincent 
Hospital  and  at  the  University  of 
Massachusetts  Medical  Center. 
These  two  centers  offer  students  the 
opportunity  to  get  practical,  clinical 
experience  in  the  field." 


As  he  talks  about  his  field  and 
his  program,  Peura's  nor- 
L  mally  reserved  manner 
takes  on  a  passionate  intensity.  "For 
me,  biomedical  engineering  is  a 
chance  to  do  something  technical 
and  really  see  the  human  benefit 
from  your  work,  to  do  something 
that  helps  people  live.  I  majored  in 
electrical  engineering  at  WPI,  but  I 
quickly  discovered  I  didn't  want  to 
build  a  faster  computer  or  make  a 
better  national  defense  system.  I  got 
interested  in  biomedical  engineering 
after  reading  about  defibrillators  in 
the  ieee  Spectrum  during  my  junior 
year,  and  I  ended  up  going  on  to  Iowa 
State  University  for  graduate  work." 
He  continues,  "I  guess  what  I  like 
most  about  biomedical  engineering 
is  the  amount  of  feedback  I  get  from 
my  work,  the  chance  to  see  it  put 
into  practice  and  really  be  of  direct 
benefit  to  other  people." 


10 /Fall  1980  /  The  WPI  journal 


•wm  m  i  w  J rnai 


From  its  beginnings  in  1963  as  a 
joint  program  operated  by  WPI 
and  Clark  University,  the  bme 
program  has  cut  across  all  sorts  of 
traditional  academic  boundaries.  In 
those  early  days,  WPI  itself  offered 
no  biology  courses,  so  a  cooperative 
program  was  the  only  possibility. 
The  initial  foray  into  the  area  was 
with  a  seminar  held  in  1961,  when 
Dick  Beschle  spoke  on  the  subject. 
The  next  year  a  joint  seminar  pro- 
gram with  Clark's  biology  depart- 
ment was  held  at  WPI. 

The  first  course  in  biomedical 
engineering  was  initiated  by  Dick 
Beschle  in  1963,  when  it  was  given 
to  students  from  both  schools,  and 
repeated  during  the  summer  for  six- 
teen graduate  students  in  electrical 
engineering.  (That  summer's  course, 
incidentally,  was  either  directly  or 
indirectly  responsible  for  the  plan- 
ning of  biomedical  engineering  pro- 
grams in  at  least  two  other  schools.) 
Initially  the  program  offered  a 
master's  degree,  and  a  doctoral 
degree  program  was  inaugurated  in 
1965. 


If  biomedical  engineering  had 
remained  at  the  graduate  level  it 
attained  by  the  late  '60s  at  WPI,  it 
would  certainly  be  a  good  if  tradi- 
tional program.  But  then  something 
different  happened.  The  WPI  Plan 
came  along,  and  with  it  a  focused 
emphasis  on  project  work,  the  solu- 
tion of  real  problems  in  conjunction 
with  outside  sponsors. 

This  opened  up  a  whole  range  of 
new  possibilities  for  WPI  students.  A 
project  center  agreement  was 
quickly  reached  with  St.  Vincent 
Hospital,  a  600-bed  teaching  hospi- 
tal in  southeast  Worcester. 

The  February  1975  Journal 
described  some  of  the  work  done  by 
students  at  St.  Vincent,  specifically 
the  refinement  and  development  of  a 
technique  for  detecting  blood  clots 
in  the  calf  by  measuring  changes  in 
electrical  resistance,  a  procedure 
first  defined  by  Dr.  H.  Brownell 
Wheeler,  now  chief  of  surgery  at 
UMass  Medical  Center.  The  stu- 
dents' project,  you  may  recall, 
involved  the  use  of  liverwursts  (with 
holes  drilled  in  them)  to  simulate 


the  human  calf.  That  project 
resulted  in  a  validated  medical  test 
which  is  now  used  by  the  hospital, 
and  Bill  Penney,  one  of  the  students 
involved,  is  now  on  the  WPI  bio- 
medical engineering  faculty. 

More  recent  work  at  St.  Vincent 
has  involved  projects  in  blood  pres- 
sure measurement,  development  of 
a  cardiac  simulator  for  training  hos- 
pital personnel  in  the  use  of  an  intra- 
venous pressure  monitor, 
microcomputer-based  patient  moni- 
toring techniques,  designing  a  modi- 
fied surgical  tool  for  cutting  bone, 
and  designing  an  adjustable  headrest 
for  wheelchairs.  Projects  at  UMass 
Medical  Center  have  included 
designing  and  building  a  micropro- 
cessor-based instrument  for  moni- 
toring the  heart's  oxygen 
consumption  during  surgery,  mea- 
suring pulmonary  artery  tempera- 
ture, building  an  instrument  to 
monitor  the  operation  of  a  defibrilla- 
tor, devising  a  method  for  accurately 
testing  the  coefficient  of  friction  of 
suture  material  (and  thus  determin- 
ing the  security  of  surgical  knots, 


The  WPI  foumal  /  Fall  1980/11 


measuring  the  true  motion  of  the 
knee  joint,  devising  a  procedure  for 
cooling  large  wounds  to  aid  healing, 
a  cough  detector  and  counter,  and 
work  on  determining  the  speed  of 
blood  flow  by  using  ultrasonic  waves 
and  doppler  shifts. 

This  wide  range  of  projects, 
however,  do  show  two  consistent 
threads  that  are  characteristic  of 
what  is  perhaps  the  major  emphasis 
of  WPI's  program:  investigation  of 
non-invasive  measurement  and 
monitoring  techniques — that  is, 
techniques  and  tests  which  can  be 
made  from  outside  (or  on  the  surface 
of)  the  body  to  discover  underlying 
conditions.  The  second  thread  is 
that  much  of  the  work  done  in  the 
program  is  concerned  with  blood 
flow  in  the  body — with  the  arteries 
and  veins,  and  with  heart  action. 


At  WPI  some  85  undergradu- 
ates are  involved  in  the  bio- 
L  medical  engineering 
program,  in  addition  to  30  graduate 
students.  While  it  will  not  likely 
ever  match  the  size  of  one  of  the  big 
departments — say  ME  or  EE — 
biomedical  engineering  will  con- 
tinue to  offer  a  uniquely  different 
alternative  for  WPI  student  engi- 
neers. 

During  the  early  years  of  the 
WPI  Plan,  the  term  'technological 
humanist'  was  coined  to  refer  to  the 
type  of  values-conscious  engineers 
and  scientists  the  school  wanted  to 
produce.  Of  all  the  technologies 
being  studied  at  WPI  today,  can  any 
be  called  more  'humane'  than  bio- 
medical engineering,  which  is  aimed 
at  helping  to  protect  and  restore 
health  and  life? 


RICHARD  G. 
BESCHLE 


The  thing  that  was  really  spe- 
cial about  Dick  Beschle  was 
the  way  he  cared  about  stu- 
dents. He  was  always  available  to 
students,  even  if  they  weren't  taking 
one  of  his  courses  or  working  for 
him.  He  spent  a  lot  of  time  just 
being  available  for  students  with 
questions  or  problems."  Those  are 
the  comments  of  Bob  Peura,  current 
biomedical  engineering  coordinator 
at  WPI. 

A  former  student  echoed  those 
sentiments:  "To  me,  the  most  mem- 
orable thing  about  Dr.  Beschle  was 
that  he  spent  several  hours  a  day  in 
the  Biomedical  engineering  lounge 
talking  to  students.  This  was  not 
official  or  part  of  a  course.  He  was 
just  always  there,  talking  to  stu- 
dents. The  conversations  were 
informative,  educational,  and  inter- 
esting. This  showed  a  real  dedication 
to  teaching." 

One  of  his  students  later  com- 
mented that  Dick  "exuded  through 
his  teachings  and  manner  a  deep 
respect  for  the  living  organism.  I  can 
remember  quite  distinctly  Dr. 
Beschle  relating  the  moving  experi- 
ence the  first  time  he  held  in  his 
hand  a  beating  heart."  That  same 
student  continued,  "the  most  valu- 
able learning  experiences  at  WPI  that 
I  can  recall  were  the  informal  gather- 
ings 'chaired'  by  Dr.  Beschle,  where 
student  research  or  other  related 
topics  were  discussed  an  analyzed  in 
an  open  forum.  .  .  To  him  there  was 
no  such  thing  as  a  stupid  question. 
He  answered  every  one  with 
patience  and  wisdom." 

One  of  the  big  interests  in 
Beschle's  life  was  the  scouting 
movement.  Edwin  B.  Coghlin,  Jr., 
'56,  worked  with  Dick  on  a  number 
of  scouting  committees  and  pro- 
grams. He  remembers,  "Dick's  tre- 
mendous commitment  to  an 
exceptional  program  .  .  .  his  great 
concern  for  the  health  and  safety  of 
each  and  every  individual  camper.  .  ." 


Dick,  a  WPI  graduate  and  mem- 
ber of  the  Class  of  1950,  was  one  of 
the  founders  of  WPI's  biomedical 
engineering  program,  and  he 
directed  its  operations  for  many 
years.  During  that  time  it  grew  from 
a  joint  operation  with  Clark  Univer- 
sity to  a  separate  WPI  program  serv- 
ing scores  of  students  each  year. 
Through  an  administrative  mixup, 
Dick,  an  associate  professor  since 
1963,  was  passed  over  for  promotion 
twice,  despite  the  support  of  his  col- 
leagues in  the  Life  Sciences  Depart- 
ment. Dick  was  finally  scheduled  for 
the  promotion  to  full  professor  he  so 
richly  deserved  on  July  1,  1980.  But 
he  didn't  make  it. 

Dick's  class  was  celebrating  its 
30th  anniversary  Reunion  in  June 
with  a  dinner  at  the  Salem  Cross 
Inn,  West  Brookfield,  Massachu- 
setts. As  part  of  the  program,  Dick 
had  begun  to  address  the  group  when 
he  suddenly  collapsed,  stricken  with 
a  massive  heart  attack. 

A  special  effort  is  being  made  by  a 
group  of  his  colleagues  and  former 
students  to  create  a  memorial  fund 
in  Dick  Beschle's  name.  As  this 
issue  went  to  press,  over  $5,000  had 
been  raised.  Ideally,  the  group  would 
like  to  endow  an  annual  graduate 
assistantship;  if  that  is  not  possible, 
then  an  annual  lecture  series  will 
result.  If  you  would  like  to  contrib- 
ute to  this  fund,  please  send  your 
donation  to  The  Richard  G.  Beschle 
Memorial  Fund,  Worcester  Polytech- 
nic Institute,  Worcester,  Massachu- 
setts 01609. 


12  /  Fall  1980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


MHLWJtl- 


■b^HOU 


On  butterfly  wings  this  time 


When  we  ran  the  article  by 
Paul  MacCready  about 
the  Gossamer  aircraft  in 
the  summer  issue  of  the  Journal,  we 
inadvertently  left  out  the  contribu- 
tions of  another  WPI  alumnus 
whose  research  was  intimately 
involved  with  the  success  of  the  pro- 
ject. 

The  alumnus  is  E.  Eugene 
Larrabee,  '42,  who  is  currently  asso- 
ciate professor  at  Massachusetts 
Institute  of  Technology.  Students  of 
Larrabee,  using  his  propeller  design 
algorithms,  designed  the  final  pro- 
peller for  the  Gossamer  Albatross, 
helping  to  transform  that  initially 
unsuccessful  aircraft  into  the  Chan- 
nel crosser  that  attracted  world-wide 
attention.  A  popular  account  of  Pro- 
fessor Larrabee's  propeller  design 
and  analysis  methods  appears  in  Sci- 


entific American  for  July  1980. 

Professor  Larrabee  gave  the  first 
of  this  year's  Carl  Gunnard  Johnson 
seminars  at  WPI  in  September.  His 
presentation  covered  propeller  the- 
ory and  the  history  of  the  Chrysalis 
project,  which  led  to  the  construc- 
tion by  his  students  of  a  sophisti- 
cated pedal-drive  airplane  during  the 
short  period  of  90  days  in  the  spring 
of  1979.  The  biplane  featured  a 
72-foot  wingspan  and  weighed  95 
pounds.  The  students  were  all 
undergraduates  in  MIT's  department 
of  aeronautics  and  astronautics. 
Stephen  Finberg,  an  engineer  in  the 
Charles  Stark  Draper  Laboratories  in 
Cambridge,  designed  and  con- 
structed the  Chrysalis  air-speed 
measuring  system  and  took  the  pic- 
ture which  is  reproduced  here. 

The  Chrysalis  biplane,  alas,  is 


no  more.  After  being  flown  more 
than  330  times  during  the  summer 
of  1979  by  at  least  40  different  pilots 
(including  Bryan  Allen),  it  was  dis- 
mantled forever  on  September  16.  A 
handsome  l/12th  scale  display 
model  of  the  plane  has  been  con- 
structed for  MIT's  historical  collec- 
tion. 

Professor  Larrabee  is  proud  to 
have  received  the  Gospel  according 
to  Prandtl  and  Betz  while  he  was  a 
student  of  the  late  Professor  Kenneth 
G.  Merriam  in  the  then-famous 
aeromechanics  option  of  the  ME 
department.  And  he's  proud  to  con- 
tinue passing  it  along  to  his  students 
at  MIT,  where  he  has  taught  since 
1946.  But  the  Chrysalis  project  has 
to  be  the  outstanding  Lehr  und 
Kunst  activity  of  his  life. 


■w 


A  BUSY  MAN 


If  you  want  to  get  a  job  done,  give 
it  to  the  busiest  person  you 
know,"  goes  the  old  saying.  The 
University  of  Arkansas  apparently 
believes  in  old  sayings.  It  just  named 
Dr.  Mason  H.  Somerville,  '64,  the 
new  chairman  of  the  department  of 
mechanical  engineering  and  engi- 
neering science. 

Dr.  Somerville  made  his  way  to 
Fayetteville,  Arkansas,  via  Grand 
Forks,  North  Dakota  and  seven  years 
of  distinguished  service  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  North  Dakota  (UND).  For 
the  last  three  years,  he  has  been 
director  of  the  University's  Engi- 
neering Experiment  Station  in  the 
School  of  Engineering  and  Mines. 
Since  1976,  he  has  also  held  the  post 
of  associate  professor  in  the  depart- 
ment of  mechanical  engineering. 

At  the  Engineering  Experiment 
Station,  Somerville  designed,  nego- 
tiated, and  implemented  the  Engi- 
neering Service  Plan,  which  provides 
financial  rewards  for  professionals  at 
the  School  who  are  academically 
productive.  He  is  also  partially 
responsible  for  a  research  incentive 
plan  with  the  University,  which  pro- 
vides monies  to  the  School.  Under 
his  leadership,  the  annual  value  of 
the  station's  research  projects  rose 
from  $700,000  to  $3.4  million  in  a 
space  of  five  years. 

As  a  professor  at  UND,  he 
developed  and  taught  the  first  gradu- 
ate course  on  the  finite  element 
method.  His  other  courses  included 
fluid  mechanics,  turbomachinery 
design,  and  heat  transfer.  Along  the 
way,  he  produced  32  major  publica- 
tions and  reports  totaling  over  3,000 
pages,  and  conducted  research  pro- 
jects valued  at  over  $1.3  million. 

Concerned  with  alternate 
sources  of  energy,  he  designed, 
supervised  the  building  of,  and  mon- 
itored three  experimental  residential 
solar  heating  systems  and  developed 
a  multiple-source  heat  pump.  The 


university's  coal  characterization 
proposal,  which  he  chaired,  won  the 
Old  West  Consortium  competition. 
His  concern  for  energy  extends  out- 
side of  the  classroom.  He  is  one  of 
the  founders  of  the  Energy  Associa- 
tion of  North  Dakota,  a  private  not- 
for-profit  citizens'  group  dedicated  to 
the  furthering  of  energy  conserva- 
tion and  the  use  of  renewable  energy. 
A  member  of  the  North  Dakota 
Solar  Resource  Advisory  Panel, 
Somerville  was  also  elected  to  the 
program  planning  and  review  board 
of  the  Mid- American  Solar  Energy 
Complex,  Inc.  to  represent  the  state. 
He  has  helped  arrange  a  national 
energy  conference,  and  has  partici- 
pated in  65  solar  energy  and  coal  gas- 
ification presentations  since  1975.  In 
May,  he  was  invited  to  testify  before 
the  Senate  Appropriations  Commit- 
tee on  DOE's  conservation  and  solar 
application  budget.  Last  February,  he 
chaired  a  symposium  on  ice  maker 
pumps. 

A  year  ago,  recognized  as  an  out- 
standing faculty  member  at  UND, 
he  was  elected  a  faculty  lecturer.  A 
number  of  other  honors  have  come 
his  way.  Six  years  ago,  he  won  the 
Outstanding  Young  Educator's 
Award  from  the  Society  of  Automo- 
tive Engineers.  Previously,  he  won 
the  Most  Demanding  Teacher  Award 
at  Pennsylvania  State  University, 


which  also  named  him  the  Olin 
Grant  recipient  in  a  faculty  compe- 
tition. 

Dr.  Somerville  received  his  PhD 
from  Penn  State  and  his  MSME  from 
Northeastern.  He  is  a  registered  pro- 
fessional engineer  in  North  Dakota. 
An  experiencd  researcher  and  con- 
sultant, his  most  recent  project  post 
was  that  of  consultant  in  the  design 
and  construction  of  the  HVAC  sys- 
tem at  the  Cray  Research  Facility  in 
Minneapolis.  The  design,  an  off- 
peak  air  conditioning  system,  was 
completed  this  year. 

Somerville  was  active  on 
numerous  UND  committees,  and 
this  year  concluded  a  three-year 
term  on  the  Faculty  Research  Com- 
mittee. His  professional  member- 
ships include  the  ASME,  the 
International  Solar  Energy  Society, 
and  the  American  Society  of  Engi- 
neering Education.  Recently,  he  was 
invited  to  speak  before  the  Midwest 
Governors'  Energy  Task  Force  in  St. 
Louis,  Mo. 

Prior  to  joining  UND  in  1973, 
he  was  a  senior  engineer  at 
Westinghouse's  Bettis  Atomic 
Power  Laboratory.  One  of  his  pro- 
jects at  Bettis  was  the  completion  of 
a  major  preliminary  design  of  the 
shutdown  and  refueling  facilities 
required  for  the  U.S.S.  Nimitz  air- 
craft carrier.  From  1967  to  1971,  he 


14  /  Fall  1980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


EAGER  BEAVER? 


SIX  DAYS  A  WEEK,  this  WPI 
alumnus  arrives  at  his  office 
at  7:45  a.m.  After  opening  the 
mail,  he  checks  the  cash  receipts, 
looks  over  the  new  invoices  and  the 
incoming  orders,  scrutinizes  the  pre- 
vious day's  production  figures,  then 
takes  a  tour  of  the  plant. 

"An  eager  beaver,"  you  tell 

yourself.  "A young  man  trying  to 
impress  his  boss.  Trying  to  get  to  the 
top.  Fast!" 


was  a  full-time  instructor  at  Penn 
State,  and  from  1977  to  the  present, 
an  invited  lecturer  at  the  University 
of  Wisconsin. 

Dr.  Somerville  takes  to  the  Uni- 
versity of  Arkansas  a  solid  back- 
ground of  dedication,  creativity,  and 
achievement,  as  well  as  a  profes- 
sional record  which  will  stand  him 
in  good  stead  as  head  of  the  Mechan- 
ical Engineering  Department.  This 
summer,  he  took  over  his  new  post, 
which  like  any  new  job  is  both  chal- 
lenging and  time-consuming.  At 
Arkansas,  he  will  teach  mechanical 
engineering,  as  well  as  serve  as  head 
of  the  department. 

"I  still  plan  to  keep  up  with  my 
outside  activities,  however,"  he 
declares.  "I  sing  in  the  Methodist 
Church  choir,  and  I  am  active  in 
Lions  International."  A  family  man, 
Somerville  also  enjoys  racquetball, 
backpacking,  and  woodworking. 

A  busy  man  can  make  time  for 
almost  everything. 


Actually,  the  "young"  man  is 
over  80  years  old,  and  he's  been  at 
the  top  for  decades.  He's  Herbert  E. 
Brooks,  '20,  owner  and  director  of 
the  Conant  Ball  Company  of 
Gardner,  Mass.  For  60  years  he's  fol- 
lowed the  same  daily  office  routine. 
It's  in  his  blood  now.  Herb  Brooks 
likes  to  make  sure  that  everything  is 
running  smoothly,  and  that  every- 
one is  doing  his  fair  share  to  keep 
Conant  Ball  Company  the  producer 
of  fine  quality  furniture  that  it  has 
been  for  128  years.  During  his  long 
career  with  the  company,  he's 
worked  with  five  generations  of  his 
family:  his  grandfather,  his  father, 
his  brother,  his  son,  and  since  1979, 
his  grandson. 

In  1920,  he  joined  the  firm  as  an 
assistant  factory  superintendent.  In 
1936,  he,  his  father,  and  his  brother 
purchased  control  of  the  business 
from  the  state  of  Edward  Ball. 
Shortly  afterward,  he  was  elected 
president.  When  his  father  retired  in 
1949,  Brooks  was  named  treasurer. 
From  1974  to  1979,  he  was  chairman 
of  the  board.  Presently,  he  serves  as  a 
director. 

A  Gardner  native,  Brooks 
attended  WPI,  graduating  as  a 
mechanical  engineer  in  1920.  While 
there,  he  was  a  member  of  Sigma 
Alpha  Epsilon  fraternity  and  Skull. 
During  his  vacations,  he  worked  in 
the  family  factory  learning  how  to 
make  furniture.  Some  of  his  early 
responsibilities  included  the  supervi- 
sion of  the  wood  shop  and  the  pur- 
chase of  lumber.  Subsequently,  he 
took  charge  of  the  entire  manufac- 
turing operation  of  the  company, 
and,  much  later,  became  the  chief 
executive  officer. 

For  a  number  of  years,  he 
attended  furniture  shows  in  Grand 
Rapids,  Mich.,  Chicago,  111.,  and 
High  Point,  S.C.  His  interest  and 
dedication  to  the  industry  led  him  to 
active  participation  in  the  New  Eng- 
land Association  of  Furniture  Manu- 
facturers in  the  1940's.  Because  he 
was  a  leader  in  the  furniture  field,  he 
was  invited  to  testify  in  Washington, 
D.C.  before  the  World  War  II  Price 
Control  Board.  For  two  terms  he 
held  the  post  of  director  of  the 
National  Association  of  Furniture 
Manufacturers. 


Brooks'  administrative  talents 
have  also  served  him  well  in  com- 
munity affairs.  He  is  a  former  direc- 
tor of  the  First  National  Bank  of 
Gardner,  and  a  past  president  of  the 
Gardner  Home  for  Elderly  People, 
and  of  the  local  United  Fund.  He  is  a 
50-year  member  of  the  Masons,  and 
a  former  member  of  the  Monomo- 
noc  Sporting  Club  and  the 
Rotary.  He  belongs  to  the  Congrega- 
tional Church. 

Since  he  started  work  at  Conant 
Ball  in  1920,  there  have  been  many 
changes  in  the  company.  Originally, 
Conant  Ball  was  strictly  a  chair 
manufacturer.  Early  on,  unfinished 
chairs  were  being  shipped  from 
Gardner  to  Boston  to  be  finished  and 
sold  in  the  Boston  finishing  plant 
and  showroom.  Although  the  finish- 
ing operation  was  shut  down  in  the 
late  1920's,  the  firm  continued  oper- 
ating showrooms  in  Boston  and  in 
New  York  City  during  the  1930's. 
Later,  it  produced  dining  room  and 
kitchen  suites.  Early  American  fur- 
niture was  introduced  in  the  1930's, 
with  one  of  those  lines  only  being 
discontinued  in  1973. 

Conant  Ball  was  a  leader  in  con- 
temporary furniture.  In  1932,  it 
brought  out  American  Modern, 
designed  by  Russell  Wright.  Follow- 
ing World  War  II ,  it  was  in  a  good 
position  to  satisfy  pent-up  consumer 
demands.  Chicago  consumers  nearly 
rioted  when  a  model  room  was 
unveiled.  The  firm  produced  that 
design  for  over  20  years. 

Currently,  the  company  is 
famous  for  Sierra,  its  contemporary 
line  made  of  solid  oak  with  walnut 
accents,  as  well  as  for  another  group 
styled  in  the  country  English  man- 
ner. Another  popular  line  is  a  group 
of  solid  oak  put-together  tables, 
introduced  in  1977. 

For  128  years,  Conant  Ball  has 
maintained  its  reputation  for  high 
quality  craftsmanship  in  the  manu- 
facture of  solid  wood  pieces.  And  for 
60  years,  Herb  Brooks  has  been  on 
the  job  at  7:45  a.m.  to  insure  the 
continuance  of  that  reputation. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Fall  1980  /  15 


1915 


Edward  Nary  writes  that  he  is  sorry  that  he 
missed  the  reunion,  but  hopes  to  attend 
next  year.  This  year  during  reunion  he  was 
preparing  to  move  back  to  his  birthplace, 
Adams,  Mass.  after  65  years. 


1920 

Secretary 

Dr.  Frederic  R.  Butler 

228BurncoatSt. 

Worcester.  MA 

01606 

Burton  Marsh,  emeritus  member  of  the 
WPI  Board  of  Trustees,  is  presently  at  home 
from  the  hospital  following  a  slight  heart 
attack. 


1926       REUNION 


Secretary 
Archie  J  Home 
1  Hunter  Circle 
Shrewsbury,  MA 
01545 


TUNE  4-7,  1 98 1 


Alfred  Wilson  writes:  "I  graduated  from 
S.D.  Warren  Co./Scott  Paper  Co.  more  than 
eleven  years  ago  and  am  still  going 
strong."  He  recently  moved  from 
Westbrook,  Me.  to  Quechee,  Vt. 


16  /Fall  1980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


1929 


Secretary  Representative: 

Holbrook  L  Horton  Holbrook  L.  Horton 

120  W.  Saddle  River  Rd 
Saddle  River,  NJ 
07458 

The  class  has  completed  its  50th  anniver- 
sary of  graduation  program  by  selecting 
the  Communications  Research  Laboratory 
on  the  third  floor  of  Atwater  Kent 
Laboratories  as  its  gift  to  the  college  at  a 
cost  of  $40,000.  It  had  previously  funded  a 
scholarship  until  the  architect  finished  the 
plans  for  WPI's  newest  improvement.  Hol- 
brook Horton  was  chairman  of  the  gift 
selection  committee,  assisted  by  Andy 
O'Connell,  Diran  Deranian,  Frank  Wies- 
man,  Milt  Labonte  and  Steve  Donahue. 


1930 


Secretary  Representative 

Carl  W  Backstrom  Carl  W,  Backstrom 

1 13  Winifred  Ave 
Worcester,  MA 
01602 


Ed  "Foxy  Grandpa"  Delano  just  keeps 
rolling  along.  He  was  the  unofficial  national 
champion  in  his  age  class  at  the  recent 
25-mile  time  trial,  winning  out  overfour 
other  riders  all  younger  than  he.  Ed  is 
hitting  the  media  on  all  fronts.  Many  news- 
papers ran  the  story  of  his  historic  ride  to  his 
50th  WPI  reunion.  He  made  "Faces  in  the 
Crowd"  \n  Sports  Illustrated,  and  he  was 
featured  in  an  article  in  50  Plus  to  name  just 
a  couple  of  magazines.  He  has  also  made  a 
number  of  TV  appearances. 


1933 


Secretary: 
Sumner  B.  Sweetser 
100  Pine  Grove  Ave 
Summit,  NJ 
07901 


Representative: 

Dr  Raymond  B  Crawford 

RFDColdbrookRd. 

Oakham,  MA 

01068 


Don  Haskins  and  his  wife  and  the  George 

Lymans  travelled  with  their  trailers  to 
Mexico  in  March.  The  Lymans  left  from 
Connecticut  and  met  the  Haskinses,  from 
Utah,  at  the  border.  They  then  travelled 
together,  communicating  by  CB  radio. 
After  enjoying  the  warmth  of  Mexico,  they 
returned  to  the  U.S.  for  a  few  days  of  skiing 
at  Utah  resorts.  In  the  future,  they  hope  to 
travel  together  through  the  West  and 
Canada. 


1935 


Secretary 

Raymond  F  Starrett 

Continental  Country  Club 

Box  1 04 

Wildwood,  FL 

32785 


Representative: 
Plummer  Wiley 
2906  Silver  Hill  Ave. 
Baltimore,  MD 
21207 


Last  year,  Theron  Cole  was  named  vice 
president  of  engineering,  research  and  de- 
velopment at  Parker  Metal  Corporation 

Harvey  White  now  serves  as  president  of 
Harvey  W.  White,  Inc.,  Charlotte,  N.C.  He 
is  a  registered  professional  fire  protection 
engineer  and  RM  consultant. 


I936       REUNION 


JUNE  4-7,  I  98  I 


Secretary 

Harold  F  Henrickson 

1406  Fox  Hill  Dr. 

Sun  City  Center,  FL 

33570 


George  Rocheford  recently  received  a 
lifetime  membership  award  from  the  ASCE 
in  Boston.  He  is  active  as  a  director  of  the 
Natick  Lions  Club  and  is  busy  with  local 
charities. 


1937 


Secretary 

Representative: 

Richard  J.  Lyman 

Gordon  F  Crowther 

10HillcrestRd 

20  Bates  St 

Medfield,  MA 

Hartford,  CT 

02052 

06114 

Correspondent 

Samuel  W  Mencow 

789  Parker  Ave 

Holden,  MA 

01520 

Hank  Dearborn  continues  as  a  patent  and 
trademark  attorney  at  Texaco,  Inc.  and 
plans  "to  continue  as  long  as  my  health 
lasts."  He  is  headquartered  in  White  Plains, 
NY.  and  resides  in  Summit,  N.J. .  .  .  Re- 
cently, Harris  Howland  returned  from  a 
sailing  trip  on  his  boat  to  the  Dry  Tortugas. 
He  writes:  "Have  been  retired  now  for  five 
years  and  still  enjoying  it.  I  play  tennis  three 
or  four  times  a  week  and  a  game  of  golf 
once  in  a  while."  Howland  is  a  member  of 
the  U.S.  Power  Squadron  with  the  rank  of 
navigator. 

The  Ray  Linsleys  have  returned  from 
France  where  they  visited  their  daughter 
who  lives  in  Le  Vesinet  outside  of  Paris. 
(Their  son-in-law  is  manager  of  the  Paris 
branch  of  the  Bank  of  America.)  The 
Linsleys'  oldest  son  is  a  consultant  in  the 


. 


restaurant  business,  and  their  second  son  is 
sales  manager  for  a  distributor  of  material 
for  natural  food  stores.  Their  youngest  son 
is  on  tour  with  his  rock  band,  which  has  just 
released  its  first  record. 

After  retiring  from  Hydrocomp,  Inc.,  in 
1977,  Ray  later  formed  a  new  consulting 
firm,  Linsley,  Krager  Associates,  in  Aptos, 
Calif.  Last  year,  he  completed  the  third 
edition  of  Water  Resources  Engineering 
and  received  an  honorary  doctor  of  en- 
gineering from  WPI. 


1938 

Representative 
Francis  B  Swenson 
599  Common  St. 
Walpole,  MA 
02081 

Norman  Bouley,  formerly  chief  of  produc- 
tion control  at  H.F.  Livermore  Corp.,  Bos- 
ton, is  retired. . . .  Robert  O'Brien  continues 
with  Kraft  Dairy  Group  (Breyer,  Sealtest, 
Breakstone,  etc.)  in  Philadelphia. 


1939 


Secretary: 

Charles  H.  Amidon,  Jr. 

636  Salisbury  St. 

Holden,  MA 

01520 


Representative 
C  John  Lindegren,  Jr. 
21  Prospect  St. 
Shrewsbury,  MA 
01545 


Keith  McKeeman  has  a  winter  home  in 
Tucson,  Arizona.  He  serves  on  the  board  of 
directors  of  Moses  Ludington  Hospital  in 
Ticonderoga,  NY.  and  is  on  the  Planning 
Board  of  Hague,  NY.  He  retired  three  years 
ago  as  chief  industrial  engineer  from  J.C. 
Penney  Co.  During  his  leisure  time  he 
enjoys  golf  and  contract  bridge.  .  .  .  Ernie 
Sykes  says,  "June  5th  was  commencement 
day  for  me  as  I  retired  from  the  lab  at 
(University  of  California)  Berkeley."  Trailer 
travel  is  in  the  Sykes'  future. 


1940 


Secretary 

Robert  E.  Dunklee.  Jr 

Rocky  Hill  Rd 

North  Scituate,  Rl 

02857 


Representative: 
Russell  A  Lovell,  Jr. 
Jonathan  Lane 
Sandwich,  MA 
02563 


Eric  Anderson  and  his  wife  Hazel  are  enjoying  his 
early  retirement  from  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  at 
their  home  in  Meredith,  N.H  on  the  shores  of 
Lake  Winnipesaukee.  Although  the  shell  of  their 
house  was  built  by  a  contractor,  Eric  did  all  the 
interior  finishing  himself  with  a  little  help  from 
his  friends.  In  the  summer  he  commands  his  own 
fleet  of  small  boats.  In  the  winter  he  snow- 
mobiles and  goes  cross-country  skiing.  "No 
Florida  winters  for  this  rugged  Scandinavian!" 
.  .  .  Howard  Anderson  continues  as  president  of 
the  WW.  Clark  Corporation  in  Cleveland,  Ohio. 
The  firm  provides  complete  electrical  service  to 
heavy  industry  such  as  steel  mills,  metal-working 


installations,  chemical  and  processing  plants, 
and  electric  utility  company  facilities.  An  avid 
golfer,  he's  had  two  holes-in-one,  one  of  which 
occurred  on  Friday  the  13th .. .  Since  retiring 
from  his  office  and  institutional  furniture  man- 
ufacturing business,  Donald  Bates  has  been 
keeping  busy  with  interests  in  several  small 
businesses  and  real  estate  projects.  He  writes: 
"Our  favorite  hobby  is  traveling.  Besides  other 
short  trips,  we  go  completely  around  the  world 
twice  a  year." 

George  Bingham  has  just  started  a  new  career 
as  manager  of  hydroelectric  power  and  water 
resources  for  Chas.  T.  Main,  Inc.,  in  Portland, 
Oregon.  Earlier,  he  had  worked  for  30  years  for 
EBASCO  Services  and  over  seven  years  for  Bon- 
neville Power  Administration.  Once  he  took  two 
delegations  to  Russia  as  part  of  the  U.S.  technical 
exchange  program.  He's  made  seven  annual 
appearances  before  the  Public  Works  Commit- 
tees of  the  House  and  Senate.  .  .  .  Bill  Blades  is 
enjoying  his  early  retirement  from  the  Worcester 
Works  (U.S.  Steel)  in  Marco  Island,  Fla.  Wife  Vi  is 
a  volunteer  at  Naples  Community  Hospital. 
"Both  of  us  have  served  in  every  church  job 
except pastorand organist".  .    Alexander Bod- 
reau  has  retired  from  American  Optical  Corp., 
Southbridge,  Mass.,  after  38  years  with  the 
company.  He  is  an  avid  fisherman,  garden  "put- 
terer,"and  participant  in  town  politics.  Forthirty 
years  he  has  served  as  chief  of  the  fire  depart- 
ment in  Quinebaug,  Conn.  He  devotes  quite  a 
bit  of  time  to  fire  prevention  and  community  fire 
safety,  and  follows  his  grandchildren's  participa- 
tion in  school  sports. 

Dr.  Ronald  Brand  has  retired  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Connecticut  after  33  years.  He  had  been 
with  the  faculty  and  had  held  the  posts  of  head 
of  the  ME  department  and  director  of  academic 
planning  for  the  university.  Over  the  years,  he's 
held  visiting  professorships  in  Norway  and  En- 
gland. Presently,  he's  "trying  to  keep  a  200- 
year-old  house  and  six  acres  in  shape."  He  sails 
in  Narragansett  Bay  and  is  treasurer  of  the  Town 
of  Eastford.  The  Brands  have  three  children  and 
two  grandchildren. 

Currently,  Malcolm  Burton  serves  as  associate 
dean  for  undergraduate  affairs,  director  of  the 
College  Program  ("design  your  own  cur- 
riculum"), and  director  of  the  freshman- 
sophomore  program  in  the  College  of  Engineer- 
ing at  Cornell  University,  where  he  has  been  on 
staff  for  34  years.  He  was  once  associate  dean 
for  graduate  studies  when  then  associate  Dean 
Cranch  (now  WPI  president)  was  on  leave.  He 
wrote  a  textbook  on  applied  metallurgy  and  was 
published  in  numerous  technical  publications. 
Once  the  owner  of  his  own  plane,  his  hobbies 
are  now  woodworking,  carving,  and  painting 
waterfowl  decoys. 

Dr.  S.  Carlton  Dickerman  and  his  wife  Anne 
enjoy  retirement  living  on  their  1 3-acre  tract  on 
Rogers  Lake,  Lyme,  Conn.  Activities  include 
fishing,  ice  skating,  wood  cutting  for  the  stove, 
and  above  all,  gardening.  They  grow  asparagus, 
rhubarb,  raspberries,  blueberries  (20  qts.  last 
year),  and  flowers.  In  the  winter  they  garden  in 
their  greenhouse.  Arthur  Dinsmore  says  that  he 
is  in  "sort  of  a  pre-retirement  slot"  at  Seneca 
Falls  (N.Y.)  Machine  Company  where  he  is  man- 
ager of  technical  services.  With  the  firm  for  32 
years,  he  has  a  number  of  patents  for  machine 
attachments,  including  some  for  the  first  au- 
tomatic handling  device  for  work  machined  be- 
tween centers. 


Formerly  with  GE,  Wheeler  Wire,  and  Essex 
Wire,  Kenneth  Fraser  is  now  western  regional 
sales  manager  for  Markel  Corp.  The  Frasers  are 
sports  lovers.  They  regularly  participate  in  golf 
and  league  bowling,  as  well  as  gardening.  Wife 
Jane  works  part  time  at  the  Bank  of  America. .  .  . 
Continuing  as  president  and  chairman  of  James- 
bury  Corp.,  which  he  founded  in  1954,  Howard 
Freeman  says  he  has  no  intention  of  retiring, 
"but  I  foresee  shifts  in  emphasis  on  the  horizon." 
The  Freemans,  who  have  two  children  and  two 
grandchildren,  enjoy  their  home  on  Cape  Cod. 
.  .  .  Last  summer,  Clyde  Gerald,  vice  president  of 
Lloyd  Publicity  Co.,  Baltimore,  Md.,  decided  to 
retire,  but  reports  that  he  has  so  many  irons  in 
the  fire  he's  thinking  of  going  back  to  work  "to 
rest  up."  His  hobby  is  model  railroading. 

Leonard  Goldsmith  is  continuing  his  career  in 
research,  development  and  manufacture  of  iner- 
tial  attitude,  reference,  and  navigation  systems 
for  aerospace  applications,  predominantly  mili- 
tary. He  serves  as  program  manager  in  the 
Singer-Kearfott  Division,  Wayne,  N.J.  His  wife 
Marcia,  a  professional,  international  folk  singer, 
teaches  viola,  violin,  and  guitar,  and  plays 
chamber  music  on  the  viola.  Their  son  Martin  is 
an  MD  and  Richard  a  documentary  filmmaker. 
Goldsmith  makes  stained  glass  creations,  hikes, 
and  goes  to  concerts,  museums  and  the  theatre. 
After  30  years  with  Honeywell,  Will  Gove  now 
holds  the  post  of  director  of  corporate  real  estate 
and  field  administration  for  the  firm  in  Min- 
neapolis. He  is  a  junior  warden  and  lay  reader  at 
his  church,  reads  on  the  radio  for  the  blind,  and 
chairs  a  committee  to  sponsor  three  Vietnamese. 
A  sports  buff,  he  likes  skiing  and  tennis. 

Joe  Halloran,  past  president  of  his  local  volun- 
teer fire  association,  reports  he  has  responded  to 
over  800  fire  alarms.  At  one  fire  he  fell  from  the 
second  floor  into  the  basement  of  a  small  build- 
ing following  a  chimney  collapse.  He  is  now 
treasurer  of  Box  22  Associates,  International  Fire 
Buff  Associates,  and  a  member  of  the  Branford 
Yacht  Club.  With  the  Halloran  Equipment  Com- 
pany, he  has  been  manager  of  the  industrial  heat 
treating  furnace  division  in  New  Haven  and  for 
thirty  years  has  been  New  England  representat- 
ive for  Ajax  Electric  Co.  and  Park  Chemical  Co. 
The  youngest  of  the  Hallorans'  five  children  is  a 
senior  at  St.  Lawrence  University. 

Franklin  Hayes  still  farms  with  D.F.  Hayes  & 
Son  in  North  Brookfield,  Mass.  He  and  Norma 
have  a  married  daughter  and  a  son  who  at- 
tended WPI  and  is  a  mechanic.  Hayes  is  an  active 
Mason. . . .  With  six  acres  of  woodland  and  a  big 
garden,  Robert  Hewey  says  he  gets  plenty  of 
exercise  without  leaving  home.  Currently,  he  is 
vice  president  of  manufacturing  at  Sprague- 
Textron  in  Bridgeport,  Conn.  .  .  .  David 
Kuniholm  reports  that  he  is  still  "lead  soloist"  at 
Kuniholm  Associates  in  Petersham,  Mass.  His 
agency  sells  machinery  and  equipment  to  the 
textile,  paper,  and  plastic  film  industries  in  New 
England.  His  son,  David  Jr.,  graduated  from  WPI 
in  1969,  and  his  daughter,  Donna,  is  married  and 
living  in  Spain.  The  Kuniholms  have  made  three 
trips  to  Spain,  and  have  also  toured  Portugal, 
Rome,  Greece,  and  Morocco.  Presently,  they  are 
restoring  a  200-year-old  1 1  -room  home  in 
Petersham.  "A  challenge." 

Russ  Lovell's  book,  The  Cape  Cod  Story  of 
Thornton  W.  Burgess,  is  now  in  its  second 
edition.  His  town  history  of  Sandwich  is  slated  to 
be  published  in  1982.  For  six  years,  he  worked 
for  a  small  research  firm  on  the  Cape  in  the 
ecology,  energy  planning  field  doing  energy  and 
pollution  studies.  He  is  married  to  Penelope 
Dalrymple-Balston,  a  British  subject.  They  enter- 
tain a  lot  and  have  been  around  the  world  nine 
times. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Fall  1980/17 


Judson  Lowd  continues  as  president  of  C-E 
Natco  in  Tulsa.  The  company  engineers,  designs, 
manufactures,  and  erects  crude  oil  and  natural 
gas  production  processing  facilities,  mainly  out- 
side the  USA.  The  Lowd's  daughter  Dana  is  a 
missionary  in  Thailand.  The  family  currently  con- 
centrates on  tennis,  having  pretty  well  given  up 
their  long-time  association  with  horse  shows. 
Lowd  has  served  as  a  trustee  of  the  University  of 
Tulsa  and  of  Beirut  University  College  in  Leba- 
non. After  retirement,  he  plans  to  engage  in 

some  oil  and  gas  related  foreign  consultation 

Noel  Maleady,  a  member  of  the  U.S.  Power 
Squadron,  now  has  his  eighth  boat,  a  21 -ft.  DC. 
Hatteras,  and  once  took  a  1 , 000-mile  trip  by 
water.  Since  his  retirement  from  GE  after  30 
years,  he's  done  a  lot  of  traveling,  including 
several  trips  to  Europe. 

The  Richard  Mayers,  looking  ahead  to  retire- 
ment, have  built  a  Deck  House  in  Intervale,  N.H., 
near  North  Conway.  They  say  the  location 
should  give  them  ready  access  to  climbing, 
skiing,  camping,  and  sailing  and  still  be  within 
striking  distance  of  Boston  and  Maine.  Mayer  is  a 
procurement  specialist  at  Monsanto  in  Decatur, 
Alabama. 

Richard  Messinger,  of  Richard  T.  Messinger 
Insurance  Agency,  is  a  member  of  the  Board  of 
Assistants  of  the  Massachusetts  Society  of  May- 
flower Descendants,  and  has  done  several  pro- 
fessional genealogical  searches  for  clients.  For 
many  years,  he's  been  working  on  a  comprehen- 
sive genealogy  of  the  descendants  of  Henry 
Messinger  of  Boston  and  Robert  Taft  of  Men- 
don,  works  he  hopes  to  get  ready  for  publication 
in  the  future.  The  father  of  three  sons,  Messinger 
has  been  involved  in  scouting,  bowling,  golf,  and 
stamp  collecting.  Once  he  engineered  the  resto- 
ration of  an  1896  Duryea  with  Charles  Duryea 
himself.  .  .  .  Although  his  experience  includes 
engineering  stints  at  Buffalo  Forge,  Republic 
Flow  Meters  Co.,  and  Crane  Co.,  Fred  Miller 
took  a  big  gamble  in  the  travel  business  and 
won.  After  31  years  of  corporate  life,  he  became 
a  manager  of  a  travel  agency,  and  then  decided 
to  start  a  travel  training  school,  Echols  Interna- 
tional Travel  Training  Courses,  Inc.,  in  San  Fran- 
cisco. Presently,  Fred  is  president  of  the  school 
and  his  wife,  Virginia,  is  director  of  admissions 
and  placement.  He  says  that,  despite  being 
astride  the  San  Andreas  Fault,  "we  have  been 
blessed  with  outstanding  success."  Daughter 
Nancy  and  her  husband  both  help  out  at  the 
school.  Fred  has  been  named  a  certified  travel 
counselor  by  the  Institute  of  Certified  Travel 
Agents. 

Lawrence  Neale  has  had  a  number  of  articles 
published,  one  of  the  more  recent  being,  "Exper- 
imental Evaluation  of  Fish  Guidance  Devices  for 
Intakes"  for  the  ASCE.  Long  associated  with 
Alden  Research  Laboratory,  he  is  now  a  flow 
specialist  at  Chas.T.  Main,  Inc.,  Boston.  At  Main, 
his  responsibilities  involve  the  review  of  hydrau- 
lic aspects  of  projects,  including  hydroelectric 
developments,  thermal  power  plants,  and  other 
projects  associated  with  flow  phenomena.  As  a 
member  of  the  firm,  he  travels  to  various  loca- 
tions supervising  model  studies  of  projects  being 
designed  by  Main.  Neale,  who  has  won  the 
Worcester  Engineering  Society's  Scientific 
Achievement  Award,  belongs  to  numerous 
honor  societies,  technical  societies,  and  profes- 
sional committees. 


In  February,  Merrill  Skeist  was  named  as  a 
co-recipient  of  a  U.S.  patent  for  the  magnetic  arc 
spreading  fluorescent  lamp  at  Spellman  High 
Voltage  Electronics  Corp.,  which  he  serves  as 
president.  Presently,  he  says  he  is  acting  out  the 
role  of  innovator.  So  far,  Lawrence  Berkeley  Labs 
(DOE)  and  GE  are  interested  in  the  invention.  In 
June,  Skeist  was  slated  to  graduate  from  the 
Harvard  Business  School  Small  Company  Man- 
agement Program.  He  and  Marian  are  active  in 
many  Jewish  organizations. 

Larry  Sullivan,  president  of  L.R.  Sullivan 
Assoc,  Inc.,  reports  he  has  no  plans  for  retire- 
ment. His  company  is  the  largest  appraisal  firm  in 
northern  New  Jersey.  The  Sullivans  spend  win- 
ters in  their  oceanside  condominium  in  Boca 
Raton,  Fla.  Hobbies  are  golf,  bridge,  and  travel. 
One  of  their  sons,  Chris,  is  vice  president  of  the 
company.  Wife  Bunny  is  in  real  estate.  .  .  .  This 
year  Harry  Terkanian  is  retiring  as  a  senior 
engineer  from  Raytheon  in  Bedford,  Mass.  He 
expects  to  work  part  time  after  retirement.  His 
wife,  Mildred,  has  an  accounting  degree  from 
Bentley  and  is  a  staff  accountant  at  Millipore 
Corp.  He  is  the  benevolent  treasurer  at  his 
church. 

Daniel  Von  Bremen,  Jr.  gave  his  son  an  un- 
usual wedding  present  —  his  own  business  as  a 
manufacturer's  representative  selling  hydraulic 
and  pneumatic  components.  He  still  does  some 
consulting.  Although  retired  from  refereeing 
high  school  and  college  soccer  games,  he  is 
involved  with  Red  Cross  First  Aid,  CPR,  and  is 
chapter  safety  chairman,  as  well  as  being  a 
member  of  the  Cooperstown  Rescue  Squad.  .  .  . 
Although  Frederic  Wackerbarth's  family  busi- 
ness was  partially  destroyed  by  fire  last  year, 
Wackerbarth  Box  Shop,  Inc.  is  now  making  more 
pallets  in  its  new  setup  than  it  did  prior  to  the  fire. 
For  15  years,  Wackerbarth  has  been  a  member 
of  the  Granville,  Mass.  Finance  Committee  and 
has  served  as  church  deacon,  4-H  leader  and 
scoutmaster.  (He  holds  the  prestigious  Silver 
Beaver  Award  from  the  BSA.)  A  lecturer  on 
edible  wild  foods  and  pyramid  power,  he  also 
enjoys  gardening. 

Dr.  Michael  Wales  reports  a  year  of  great 
technical  growth  with  three  papers  in  the  works 
and  attendance  at  the  Gordon  Conference. 
Hobbies  are  literature,  baroque  mathematics, 
cross  country  skiing,  and  planning  final  retire- 
ment in  Hawaii.  After  many  years  with  Shell 
Development  Co.,  he  is  presently  senior  research 
scientist  at  Abcor,  Inc.,  Wilmington,  Mass.  He 
was  involved  in  the  development  of  a  successful 
flame-resistant  polystyrene  for  electronic  appli- 
cations. He  has  five  patents.  .  .  .  After  31  years 
with  ITT,  Thomas  Wingardner  retired  from  the 
Avionics  Division  where  he  had  "cradle  to  the 
grave"  responsibility  for  all  navigation  contracts. 
The  Wingardners  have  three  college-graduate 
sons  and  five  grandchildren.  Presently,  they 
divide theirtime  between  Marco  Island,  Fla.,  and 
Cape  Cod. 


1941       REUNION 


1942 

Representative: 
Norman  A.  Wilson 
17  Cranbrook  Dr. 
Holden,  MA 
01520 

In  July,  the  board  of  directors  of  Algonquin 
Industries,  Inc.,  elected  John  Townsend  as 
chairman  and  chief  executive  officer.  Previously, 
he  served  as  president  and  chief  executive  officer 
of  the  Guilford,  Conn,  magnet  wire  manufac- 
turer since  its  founding  in  1968.  He  holds 
world-wide  patents  in  the  field  of  taped  magnet 
wire,  assigning  them  to  Algonquin's  joint  ven- 
ture, the  Magna-Ply  Company,  which  he  still 
serves  as  president  and  chief  executive  officer. .  . 
John  Bartlett,  Jr.  has  been  named  general  man- 
agerof  New  England  High  Carbon  Wire  Corp.  of 
Millbury,  Mass.  The  company  produces  ferrous 
spring  wire  and  is  owned  by  Precision  Industries, 
Inc.  of  Washington,  Pa.  Earlier  Bartlett  had  been 
a  manufacturing  manager  for  a  Brown  &  Sharpe 
subsidiary  in  Manchester,  Mich.  He  belongs  to 
the  Wire  Association  and  has  worked  for  Reid 
Avery  Co.,  ACCO  Industries,  and  Morgan  Con- 
struction Co.  .  .  .  Peter  Holz,  chairman  of  the 
ASME  Oak  Ridge  Section,  served  as  chairman 
and  master  of  ceremonies  during  the  ASME 
Centennial  Observance  held  in  Knoxville,  Tenn. 
in  February.  Prof.  Donald  Zwiep  of  the  WPI 
mechanical  engineering  department,  then  the 
president  of  the  ASME,  gave  the  keynote  ad- 
dress during  the  festivities.  Holz,  with  Union 
Carbide,  is  also  a  professional  engineer. 


1943 

Representative: 
Roberts.  Schedin 
RFD#1 

Brookfield,  MA 
01506 

Clifton  Kinne  holds  the  post  of  senior  engineer 
at  Imlac  Corp.,  Needham,  Mass.  .  .  .  Herbert 
Marsh,  a  professional  engineer,  continues  at  his 
post  with  Westinghouse.  Last  winter  he  was 
professional  development  chairman  of  the 
ASME  Oak  Ridge  Section  assisting  with  the 
ASME  Centennial  Observance  which  took  place 
in  Knoxville,  Tenn.  During  the  celebration,  WPI 
Prof.  Donald  Zwiep,  then  national  president  of 
ASME,  rededicated  the  three  Dixie  IV  ASME 
sections  located  in  northeastern  Tennessee. 


Secretary: 
Russell  W.  Parks 
7250  Brill  Rd 
Cincinnati.  OH 
45243 


JUNE  4-7,  1 98  I 


Continuing  with  International  Energy  Associates 
Ltd.,  Hilliard  Paige  holds  the  post  of  officer- 
director  of  the  firm  in  Washington,  DC.  He  is  a 
member  of  the  WPI  board  of  trustees. 


18/ Fall  1 980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


1946 


Secretaries 

M.  Daniel  Lacedonia 

106  Ridge  Rd 

East  Longmeadow,  MA 

01028 


Geroge  H.  Conley,  Jr 
213  Stevens  Dr 
Pittsburgh,  PA 
15236 


Roger  Broucek  is  now  regional  manager  at  H.J. 
Hodes  &  Co.  in  Kansas  City,  Mo.  .  .  .  George 
Fritz  recently  celebrated  his  25th  service  an- 
niversary at  Teleype  Corp.  in  Skokie,  III.  He  is 
manager  of  the  company's  sales  documentation 
organization.  Besides  his  WPI  degree,  he  holds  a 
BA  in  English  from  the  University  of  the  Pacific  in 
California.  ...  In  August,  the  Rev.  Prescott 
Grout  was  a  guest  speaker  at  the  First  United 
Methodist  Church  of  Westboro,  Mass.  Cur- 
rently, he  is  a  design  draftsman  at  Riley  Stoker  in 
Worcester..  .  .  Charles  Miczek,  a  corporate  vice 
president  at  Stone  &  Webster  Engineering  Cor- 
poration, has  also  been  appointed  deputy  direc- 
tor of  engineering  at  the  firm.  He  started  work  at 
the  company  in  1 946,  became  head  of  structural 
engineering  in  1 968,  and  was  appointed  a  senior 
engineering  manager  in  1978.  He  belongs  to  the 
ASCE  and  serves  on  the  Society's  Nuclear  Stan- 
dards Committee.  He  is  a  registered  professional 
engineer. 


1947 

Representative: 
Allan  Glazer 
20Monadnock  Dr. 
Shrewsbury,  MA 
01545 

Robert  Mark  is  completing  33  years  with  General 
ElectricCo.  at  12  locations throughoutthe coun- 
try. Presently,  he  is  a  member  of  the  corporate 
employee  relations  staff  at  worldwide  headquar- 
ters in  Fairfield,  Conn. 


1950 


Secretary: 

Lester  J  Reynolds,  Jr 

15  Cherry  Lane 

Basking  Ridge,  NJ 

07920 


Representative 
Henry  S.  Coe,  Jr. 
3  Harwick  Rd 
Wakefield,  MA 
01880 


Barbara  Cocker,  wife  of  John  Cocker,  is  a  well- 
known  marine  artist.  In  the  summer  she  exhibits 
her  work  at  the  Old  South  Wharf  in  Nantucket, 
Mass.  Her  winter  studio  is  in  Rumson,  N.J.  She 
has  had  one-woman  exhibitions  at  the  Little 
Gallery  at  the  Barbizon  in  New  York,  at  the 
Artists'  Association  of  Nantucket,  and  at  Gallery 
100  in  Princeton,  N.J.  Her  work  has  also  been 
shown  at  a  group  exhibit  at  the  National 
Academy  in  New  York.  She  is  listed  in  Who's 
Who  in  American  Art  and  Who  s  Who  of  Ameri- 
can Women.  Her  husband  is  on  the  technical 
staff  at  Bell  Telephone  Labs.  ...  Dr.  Herman 
Nied  was  recently  appointed  chairman  of  the 
Structures  and  Dynamics  Committee  of  the  Gas 
Turbine  Division  of  the  ASME.  As  chairman,  Dr. 
Nied  will  coordinate  and  plan  future  conferences 
and  sessions  for  the  committee,  focusing  on  the 
latest  gas  turbine  technology.  He  is  with  the  GE 


Research  and  Development  Center  and  is  a 
licensed  professional  engineer  in  New  York  and 
New  Jersey.  He  belongs  to  the  ASME,  the  Soci- 
ety for  Experimental  Stress  and  the  American 
Academy  of  Mechanics. 

Richard  Olson  was  the  co-author  of  "Rating 
Quality  Systems"  which  appeared  in  the  May 
issue  of  Quality  Progress.  He  is  a  senior  member 
of  ASQC,  is  a  registered  professional  engineer, 
and  an  associate  member  of  the  European  Or- 
ganization for  Quality  Control.  For  25  years,  he 
has  held  posts  in  quality  control,  reliability,  en- 
gineering, and  procurement  in  industry.  A  cer- 
tified quality  engineer,  he  is  an  adjunct  professor 
of  management  at  the  University  of  Lowell.  .  .  . 
James  Sullivan  has  been  named  to  the  newly 
created  post  of  chief  steam  power  engineer  at 
the  consulting  engineering  firm  of  Neill  and 
Gunter  in  Falmouth,  Me.  Previously,  he  was 
chief  mechanical  engineer  for  Thermo-Electron 
Corp.,  Waltham,  Mass.  Earlier,  he  was  with 
Anderson-Nichols  of  Boston;  General  Dynamics 
of  Groton,  Conn.;  Boston  Edison  Co.;  Stone  & 
Webster  of  Boston;  and  GE  of  Lynn,  Mass. 


I95 1        REUNION 


Secretary 
Stanley  L  Miller 
11  Ash  wood  Rd 
Paxton,  MA 
01612 


JUNE  4-7,  1 98 1 
Representative 
Duncan  W  Munro 
59  Brigham  St. 
Northboro,  MA 
01532 


Andrew  Freeland  works  for  Harmon  Electronics 
in  Grain  Valley,  Mo. 

In  July,  Thomas  McComiskey  was  appointed 
assistant  vice  president  at  Buffalo  Tank  Opera- 
tions (Bethlehem  Steel)  in  Dunellen,  N.J.  Earlier, 
he  was  manager  of  the  tank  division's  plants  in 
Buffalo,  N.Y.  and  Romulus,  Mich.  He  joined 
Bethlehem  in  1951  in  the  steel  operations  de- 
partment's former  fabricated  steel  construction 
(FSC)  section.  After  two  years  with  the  U.S. 
Army,  he  returned  to  his  former  post  of  field 
engineer  in  1 955.  He  subsequently  was  named 
safety  engineer  for  FSC's  home  office  staff;  a 
field  engineer  in  the  Eastern  and  Central  districts; 
resident  engineer  in  the  Central  and  Western 
districts;  and  project  engineer  for  the  Central 
district.  He  also  served  as  manager  of  construc- 
tion and  assistant  manager  of  FSC  erection  in  the 
Western  district.  In  1 976,  he  was  named  to  a 
product  sales  post  with  Buffalo  Tank,  Chicago 
area.  After  being  advanced  to  resident  salesman, 
Chicago,  he  became  plant  manager  in  Buffalo 
and  Romulus. 

Having  left  Sun  Chemical  as  market  manager 
of  flexible  packaging,  Phil  Michelman  is  now  in 
marketing  sales  of  packaging  with  Handschy 
Industries.  He  has  two  sons,  Jeff  and  Mark.  Jeff  is 
entering  Washington  University  at  St.  Louis  for 
graduate  work  in  hospital  administration.  Mark 
is  starting  his  third  year  at  the  University  of 
Illinois.  The  Michelmans  live  in  Palatine,  III., 
outside  of  Chicago. .  .  .  Neal  Peterson  continues 
as  a  senior  development  engineer  at  the  Foxboro 
(Mass.)  Co.  .  .  .  Donald  Spooner  was  appointed 
managing  engineer  of  project  design,  Models  B 
and  C,  in  the  Copy  Products  Department  of  the 
Kodak  Apparatus  Division  (KAD).  He  joined 
Eastman  Kodak  in  1952.  Most  recently,  he  held 
the  post  of  supervising  development  engineer, 
accessory  development  and  design  for  KAD. 
Spooner,  who  belongs  to  Sigma  Xi  and  the 
Rochester  Engineering  Society,  holds  a  master's 
degree  from  MIT. 


1952 


Secretary 
Edward  G.  Samolis 
580  Roberts  Ave. 
Syracuse,  NY 
13207 


Representative 
John  M  Tracy 
15  School  St 
Northboro,  MA 
01532 


Formerly  technical  director  of  Emhart's  United 
Machinery  Group,  Robert  Johnson  has  been 
named  the  new  president  and  general  manager 
of  Fellows  Corp.,  an  Emhart  subsidiary  in  North 
Springfield,  Vt.  Fellows  manufactures  gear  cut- 
ting machinery  and  has  1000  employees. 
Johnson,  atop  research  and  development 
executive  previously  based  in  Beverly,  Mass., 
joined  Emhart  in  1952.  As  United  Machinery's 
technical  director,  he  coordinated  research  and 
development,  manufacturing,  capital  expendi- 
tures, patents,  and  long-range  planning  at  27 
units  in  17  countries.  He  has  an  MBA,  is  a 
registered  professional  engineer  in  Mas- 
sachusetts, and  belongs  to  the  ASME,  the  Amer- 
ican Association  for  the  Advancement  of  Sci- 
ence, and  the  Industrial  Research  Institute. 


1954 


Secretary: 
Roger  R.  Osell 
18  Eliot  Rd. 
Lexington,  MA 
02173 


Representative 
Edwin  Shivell 
64  Woodland  Dr. 
Portsmouth,  Rl 
02871 


With  Honeywell  Information  Systems  for  15 
years,  in  April  Andy  Morgo  was  transferred  from 
California  and  Arizona  back  to  Massachusetts. 
Presently,  he  is  international  support  manager  in 
Billerica. 


1955 


Secretary: 
Kenneth  L.  Wakeen 
344  Waterville  Rd. 
Avon,  CT 
06001 


Representative 
Edouard  S.  P.  Bouvier 
123  Beechwoods  Dr 
Madison,  CT 
06443 


Last  Year,  Louis  Axtman,  Jr.  transferred  from  the 
New  England  Division,  Corps  of  Engineers,  to 
the  new  Disaster  Agency  established  by  the 
president  in  July.  Presently,  he  is  chief  of  the 
Structural  Survey  Group  in  the  Operations  Sup- 
port Division  located  at  the  Federal  Regional 
Center  in  Maynard,  Mass.  This  summer,  the 
Axtmans  went  to  England  where  Mrs.  Axtman 
was  born.  They  have  three  children.  Flying, 
sports  car  restoration,  and  music  are  favorite 
pastimes. .  .  .  Jerry  Backlund  holds  the  post  of 
manager  of  operations  at  American  Cyanamid's 
Warners  plant  in  Linden,  N.J.  The  plant  produces 
industrial  and  agricultural  chemicals.  Jerry  is  with 
the  Field  Artillery  in  the  U.S.  Army  Reserve, 
where  he  teaches  a  command  and  general  staff 
officer  course  to  active  Army,  USAR,  and  Na- 
tional Guard  officers.  .  .  .  The  David  Bagleys, 
who  have  a  villa  on  the  lake  in  Wolfeboro,  N.H., 
also  enjoy  boating  at  Cape  Cod,  on  the  North 
Shore,  and  at  Lake  Winnipesaukee.  Bagley  is  a 
sales  engineer  for  a  manufacturer  representative 
at  New  England  Controls,  Inc.,  Mansfield,  Mass. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Fall  1980  /  19 


•>■:■?* 


.  .  .  With  IBM  since  graduation,  Earl  Bloom  is 
now  senior  engineer  and  engineering  manager 
of  new  business  products  in  the  Systems  Prod- 
ucts Division,  Endicott,  N.Y.  Daughter  Cindy 
majored  in  music  at  Mansfield  State  College  in 
Pennsylvania,  the  college  her  sister,  Tracy,  plans 
to  attend.  Bloom's  outside  interests  are  golf, 
tennis,  and  investments.  .  .    Edouard  Bouvier, 
who  has  been  active  on  the  WPI  Alumni  Council 
and  as  class  bequest  agent,  also  enjoys  camping, 
gardening,  and  woodworking.  He  has  been  with 
Southern  New  England  Telephone  since  1956. 
This  year,  he  was  named  staff  manager  of  motor 
equipment.  In  1978-79,  he  was  chairman  of  the 
AT&T  task  force  on  microcomputers  for  building 
automation.  Bouvier  and  his  wife,  June  Marie, 
have  seven  children. 

Long  employed  by  Westinghouse,  Cedney 
Brown  continues  in  the  company's  Advance 
Reactors  Division  in  Madison,  Pa.  In  his  spare 
time,  he  likes  youth  recreation  activities,  church 
work,  choral  singing,  and  specialty  artwork.  He  is 
married  and  has  two  daughters. .  .  .P.W.Brown, 
Inc.,  Paul  Brown's  company  in  Westboro,  Mass., 
is  mainly  concerned  with  utility  and  heavy  con- 
struction in  the  New  England  area.  The  Browns, 
who  have  two  boys  and  two  girls,  are  restoring 
an  old  farm  in  Westboro,  where  they  raise 
Scotch  Highland  cattle. 

Marty  Burden  is  now  a  product  manager 
(reinforcing  for  automotive  weather  strips)  at 
Schlegel  Corporation,  Carolina  Division,  in  Ches- 
ter, S.C.  Before  their  recent  transfer  to  South 
Carolina,  the  Burdens'  major  hobby  was  the 
restoration  of  a  140-year-old  farm  house. .  .  . 
John  Calhoun's  son,  John,  Jr.,  is  a  student  at 
WPI.  Daughter  Mary  Jane  goes  to  Holy  Cross 
and  David  to  the  Coast  Guard  Academy.  Ann 
and  Paula  are  at  Notre  Dame  Academy.  Since 
1976,  Calhoun  has  held  the  post  of  personnel 
administrator  at  Heald  Machine  (Cincinnati 
Milacron)  in  Worcester.  The  family  has  a  sum- 
mer home  in  Plymouth,  Mass.,  where  they  sail, 
swim,  and  work  on  the  house. 

Lt.  Col.  Dean  Carlson  (U.S.  Army  Ret.)  is 
presently  in  the  real  estate  marketing  field  with 
Mann  Associates  in  Arnold,  Md.r  where  he  is  vice 
president.  Since  entering  the  profession  of  real 
estate,  he  has  been  involved  with  sales  counsel- 
ing, construction,  property  management,  and 
administration.  Carlson  belongs  to  Schlaraffia, 
an  international  organization  of  German- 
speaking  men  (1 1 ,000  members).  The  Carlsons 
have  two  children.  .  .  .  John  Cnossen,  who  is 
self-employed  with  Quaker  Motor  Lodge  in 
Uxbridge,  Mass. ,  has  also  been  a  science  teacher 
and  head  of  the  department  at  Uxbridge  High 
School.  Son  Jack  is  a  chemical  engineering  major 
at  WPI.  Michael  graduated  from  Tufts  Dental 
College  in  June,  and  Timothy  from  Eastern 
Nazarene  College.  Peter  is  a  graduate  of  Ux- 
bridge High  School.  In  his  spare  time,  Cnossen  is 
a  flight  instructor.  .  .  .  Continuing  with  G&O 
Mfg.  Co.,  New  Haven,  Conn.,  Dick  Crook  is  now 
manager  of  product  engineering,  a  post  he  has 
held  since  last  year.  He  and  Paula  have  three 
daughters  and  six  cats.  They  own  a  23-ft.  sloop 
and  can  be  found  sailing  in  the  Bahamas,  the 
British  Virgins,  on  Long  Island  Sound,  and  Nar- 
ragansett  Bay.  Crook  has  a  private  pilot's  license. 
He  likes  sports  cars  and  competitive  shooting. 
Last  year  he  served  as  chairman  of  the  Flood  and 
Erosion  Control  Board  of  the  Town  of  East 
Haven,  Conn. 


David  Dayton  is  still  president  of  Technical 
Development  Corp.,  Boston.  He  also  owns  Day- 
ton Corp.,  which  is  concerned  with  energy  con- 
servation products.  He  is  on  the  board  of  direc- 
tors of  several  businesses  and  community  or- 
ganizations. During  his  leisure  time  he  runs, 
writes,  and  plays  tennis.  He  and  Shirley  have  five 
children.  .  .  .  Lawrence  Dennis  is  currently  chief 
of  the  Communications  and  Automatic  Data 
Processing  Division  at  the  Communications  and 
Electronics  Materiel  Readiness  Command  in  Fort 
Monmouth,  N.J.  His  career  has  sent  him  around 
the  world,  while  family,  church,  and  hobbies 
keep  him  busy  at  home.  He  is  chairman  of 
property  and  finances  for  his  church.  Lately  he's 
taken  up  flying. 

W.G.  Dudevoir  remains  with  Sanders  As- 
sociates in  Nashua,  N.H.  He  belongs  to  the 
National  Society  of  Professional  Engineers  and 
the  Greater  Nashua  Youth  Hockey  Association. 
The  Dudevoirs  have  four  sons  and  a  daughter. 
.  .    Alan  Ede  has  a  collection  of  16  mandolins 
and  banjos.  He  enjoys  bluegrass  and  "old- 
timey"  music.  Other  interests  are  fishing,  tent 
camping,  and  canoeing.  He  has  been  teaching  at 
Oregon  State  University  since  1974.  ...  A  Hon- 
eywell employee  since  1960,  John  Edfors  is 
presently  manager  of  mechanical  design  and 
packaging  of  minicomputer  and  terminal  prod- 
ucts. Edfors  is  married,  has  an  18-year-old 
daughter,  and  works  around  his  old  farm.  He  is 
associated  with  a  musical  group,  and  likes 
woodworking  and  vacations  in  Maine.  He  owns 
a  cottage,  complete  with  a  sailboat  and  a  canoe. 
.  .  .  Art-collecting,  real  estate,  and  land  devel- 
opment are  some  of  Dick  Goldman's  pastimes. 
During  working  hours  he  is  in  program  man- 
agement at  Intel  in  Santa  Clara,  Calif.  .    .  John 
Goodwin  has  had  a  25-year  career  with  the 
Federal  Aviation  Administration  in  Washington, 
D.C.  Presently,  he  is  airport  advisor  for  the 
government  of  Spain  in  Madrid.  Earlier,  he  was 
chief  of  the  airport  planning  division.  .  .  .  Still 
with  the  mechanical  engineering  department  at 
WPI,  Hartley  Grandin,  Jr.  enjoys  woodworking 
and  house  design  and  construction.  He  and  his 
wife,  Diane,  are  the  parents  of  Jennifer,  10,  and 
Joel,  8. 

Daniel  Grant,  Jr.  serves  as  a  lead  electrical 
engineer  on  small  hydroelectric  power  projects 
for  Chas.  T.  Main,  Inc.,  Boston,  Mass.  .  .  .  Re- 
cently, Donald  Grenier  of  Donald  Grenier  Corp., 
New  York  City,  purchased  an  18,000  sq.  ft. 
building  to  house  a  new  data  center.  In  1968,  he 
formed  his  company  to  provide  computer  appli- 
cations design  service  for  clients.  In  1 976  a 
second  division  was  started  to  provide  process- 
ing services  to  clients  who  have  no  computers. 
The  favorite  family  vacation  spot  is  Chatham, 
Mass.,  and  the  favorite  family  outing  is  "Rooting 
forthe  Red  Sox  at  Yankee  Stadium."  Grenier  has 
served  as  Little  League  commissioner  for  three 
years  and  as  chairman  of  the  Carmel  Planning 
Board  for  nine. .  .  .  Timothy  Healey  continues  as 
an  attorney  with  Healey,  Farrell  &  Lear  in 
Washington,  DC.  He  and  his  wife  Deirdre  are 
the  parents  of  Michael,  Matthew,  and  Brian. .  .  . 
Lawrence  Henschel  holds  the  post  of  president 
of  Sportsmen  Accessories,  Inc.,  Bridgeport, 
Conn.  The  firm  is  a  major  manufacturer  of 
fishing  pools  and  other  sports  items.  Henschel's 
outside  interests  include  scouting,  water  sports, 
and  fishing.  Wife  Anita  is  a  teacher. 

Bob  Holden,  an  engineering  professor  at 
Cuyamaca  College  in  California,  is  an  activist  in 
the  American  Federation  of  Teachers,  AFL-CIO, 
and  the  National  Organization  for  Women.  He 
has  also  been  active  in  the  cause  of  constitu- 
tional rights  of  public  school  students.  Several 


times  he  has  been  elected  as  a  member  of  the 
Democratic  County  Central  Committee  in  San 
Diego  County.  He  is  the  father  of  two  teenage 
sons.  .  .  .  Francis  Horan's  son  Timothy  is  a 
student  at  WPI.  James  is  at  Holy  Cross;  Thomas 
at  Shrewsbury  High;  and  Maryellen  is  a  junior 
high  student.  Horan  has  been  with  Mas- 
sachusetts Electric  since  graduation.  Presently, 
he  is  in  Worcester  as  head  of  marketing  for 
Massachusetts.  A  current  member  of  the 
Shrewsbury  School  Committee,  he  has  coached 
Little  League  and  Youth  Basketball,  and  has 
served  as  president  of  the  Lions  Club  and  the 
Chamber  of  Commerce.  He  was  a  trustee  of 
Nonotuck  Savings  Bank,  chairman  of  the  United 
Fund,  and  president  of  the  Fund's  board  of 
directors. 

Active  in  numerous  WPI  alumni  activities,  Pete 
Horstmann  has  also  been  serving  on  the  Holden 
School  Committee  and  on  the  Wachusett  Re- 
gional School  District  Committee.  He  is  a  cor- 
porator of  the  Worcester  Boy's  Club,  Worcester 
Science  Center,  and  Consumer  Savings  Bank.  He 
is  vice  president  of  research  and  development 
and  engineering  at  Coppus  Engineering  Corp. 
(industrial  turbomachinery)  in  Worcester.  This 
year  Pete  received  the  Herbert  F.  Taylor  Award 
from  the  Alumni  Association.  .  .  .  Philip  Jones 
works  as  development  engineering  supervisor  of 
the  Printing  Division  at  Kodak  in  Rochester,  N.Y. 
After  hours,  he  fishes,  plays  tennis,  and  collects 
and  deals  in  antiques,  especially  clocks.  He  does 
volunteer  work  for  public  television  and  likes  to 
ski. .  .  .  Photography,  sports,  and  dancing  are 
the  favorite  pastimes  for  Richard  Kee,  who  holds 
the  post  of  director  of  product  electronics  en- 
gineering at  Polaroid  in  Cambridge,  Mass.  He 
and  Jennie  have  four  children. 

Brian  Kelly  is  vice  president  and  general  man- 
ager of  Bell  Telephone  Company  of  Pennsyl- 
vania. The  Kellys'  five  children  range  in  age  from 
elementary  school  to  law  school.  Busy  with  Little 
League,  Kelly  has  also  been  on  the  board  of 
directors  of  several  organizations  including  the 
United  Way,  the  Pittsburgh  Symphony  Society, 
and  Blue  Cross  of  Western  Pennsylvania.  .  .  . 
Norman  Lawrence  has  performed  twice  at  Car- 
negie Hall  as  a  bass  with  the  Rutgers  University 
Choir.  He's  been  with  General  Dynamics  for  20 
years.  Now  he  is  studying  for  his  BS  in  computer 
sciences  at  Rutgers.  The  Lawrences  have  four 
children..  .  .  Ray  LeMieux  holds  a  pilot's  license, 
plays  golf,  and  listens  to  his  classical  records  on 
home-built  equipment.  With  Atlantic  Richfield  in 
Philadelphia,  he  helps  provide  Arco-developed 
technologies  worldwide. 

Philip  Lincoln  has  been  with  IBM  since  gradu- 
ation. Currently,  he  is  in  program  management 
for  semiconductor  components.  He  writes:  "En- 
joying Vermont."  He  likes  sailing  on  Lake 
Champlain  and  Burlington's  cultural  opportuni- 
ties in  music  and  theater.  The  Lincolns,  who  have 
three  children,  live  in  Essex  Junction.  .  .  .  Joseph 
Lite  is  a  test  conductor  of  the  global  positioning 
system,  Navstar  satellite,  at  Rockwell  Interna- 
tional in  Seal  Beach,  Calif.  He  belongs  to  the 
Rockwell  Management  Association,  and  he  has 
won  merit  awards  from  community  organiza- 
tions. Popular  pastimes  are  scuba  and  skindiving 
and  involvement  in  scouting  and  Catholic  church 
activities.  .  .  .  Hank  Manseau  serves  as  a  cantor 
atSt.  Anne'sChurch  in  Northboro,  Mass.  He  has 


20  /  Fall  1 980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


W\WFM**A  ■■*.'! 


been  a  district  commissioner  for  the  Boy  Scouts, 
and  a  cubmaster  and  scoutmaster.  Formerly  at 
Incoterm,  he  is  now  manager  of  corporate  prod- 
uct planning  of  the  Airlines  and  Financial  Indus- 
tries Division  at  Honeywell,  Inc.,  Wellesley, 
Mass.  The  father  of  four,  he  enjoys  sailing, 
canoeing,  and  cross-country  skiing.  .  .  .  Jim 
Mathews  is  co-founder  of  L  &  M  Sales,  Inc., 
Marlboro,  Mass.  As  a  manufacturer's  repre- 
sentative, he's  concerned  with  capital  equip- 
ment for  the  semiconductor  industry.  Earlier,  he 
had  been  with  Teradyne,  Texas  Instruments,  and 
Sprague  Electric.  He  has  six  children. 

Dot  and  Ralph  Mongeon  are  both  involved 
with  education  groups.  Ralph  is  vice  president  of 
the  Massachusetts  PTSA  and  Dot  is  in  charge  of 
volunteers  at  a  Shrewsbury  (Mass.)  school.  Last 
year,  the  four  Mongeons  took  a  cross-country 
trip  at  the  height  of  the  gas  shortage.  With  Riley 
Stoker,  Worcester,  for  many  years,  Ralph  is  now 
manager  of  boiler  development. .  .  .Since  1974, 
Edwin  Nesman  has  been  employed  by  MIT  as  a 
staff  engineer  at  Haystack  Observatory  in 
Westford,  Mass.  At  the  observatory,  he  supports 
radio-astronomy  research  with  digital  in- 
strumentation design.  Nesman  has  two  children. 
He  has  served  on  the  Bolton  School  Building 
Committee  and  the  School  Committee. .  .  . 
Philip  Olson's  present  position  at  United  Il- 
luminating is  senior  mechanical  engineer  super- 
visor. He  and  Nancy  are  the  parents  of  Peter  and 
Holly. 

Martin  Rafferty,  an  employee  of  Exxon  Corp., 
is  currently  on  loan  to  Aramco  as  engineering 
consultant  on  rotating  equipment  in  the  petro- 
leum and  process  industries  in  Saudi  Arabia.  For 
the  past  ten  years,  he  was  with  Esso  in  Libya.  A 
do-it-yourselfer,  Rafferty  has  lately  been  inter- 
ested in  volunteer  fire  brigade  work. .  .    After  17 
years  as  a  head  football  coach  at  several  schools, 
Art  Rudman  has  just  resigned  from  Cheverus 
High  School,  Portland,  Me.  He  and  Nancy  are 
opening  a  small  boarding  home  in  Skowhegan. 
(Nancy  is  an  R.N.  with  long  experience  in  nursing 
homes.)  Art,  who  may  not  give  up  football 
completely,  is  selling  insurance  on  the  side.  He 
has  four  children. .  .  .  George  Robbins  continues 
as  area  superintendent  of  operations  for  North- 
east Utilities  in  Torrington,  Conn.  Active  in 
church  work,  he  also  has  served  on  the  Voca- 
tional Advisory  Council  and  Litchfield  Board  of 
Education.  Heand  Carol  have  three  children. .  .  . 
With  Presmet  since  1955,  Rey  Sansoucy  is  pres- 
ently vice  president  of  engineering.  He  has  six 
children  and  enjoys  home  construction  projects, 
as  well  as  gardening.  He  is  a  former  chairman  of 
the  Worcester  chapter  of  SME  and  the  Boston 
chapterof  APMI  (Powder  Metal  Institute).  In  his 
car  collection  he  has  a  1 930  Olds,  a  1 926  Model 
T,  and  a  1957  Ford 

Hal  Sauer  holds  the  post  of  vice  president  of 
Intermark  Associates,  Inc.,  a  consulting  organi- 
zation which  assists  U.S.  companies  in  establish- 
ing markets  for  their  products  outside  the  U.S. 
The  firm  is  located  in  Sudbury,  Mass.  Sauer  still 
plays  the  sax  and  clarinet.  He  is  a  present 
member  and  past  chairman  of  the  town  planning 
board.  .  .  .  Last  Year,  Robert  Schultz  was  ap- 
pointed to  the  Oregon  State  Board  of  Engineer- 
ing Examiners.  He  continues  teaching  at  Oregon 
State  University  in  Corvallis.  He  has  received  two 
outstanding  teacher  awards  at  the  university. 
After  class,  he  serves  as  a  high  school  football 
and  basketball  official.  He  has  four  children. .  .  . 
Robert  Stempel,  vice  president  and  general 
manager  of  the  Pontiac  Motor  Division  at  Gen- 
eral Motors,  has  been  promoted  to  vice  presi- 
dent for  European  sourced  passenger  car  opera- 
tions. A  WPI  trustee,  this  year  he  received  the 
Robert  H.  Goddard  Award. 


Bruce  Sealy  is  still  with  Comten,  which  has 
been  acquired  by  NCR.  He  is  located  in  Missouri, 
where  he  opened  a  company  sales  office  in  St. 
Louis  nearly  four  years  ago. 

Richard  Sieron  is  presently  vice  president  of 
research  and  development  at  Dual-Lite,  Inc.  in 
Newtown,  Conn.  His  outside  interests  include 
sailing  and  duplicate  bridge.  Remarried  in  1974, 
Sieron  has  five  children  and  a  granddaughter, 
and  his  wife  has  a  son  and  a  daughter.  .  .  .  Now 
semi-retired,  Edward  Simonian  operates  a  cow 
and  calf  farm,  as  well  as  a  motel.  He  likes  farming 
and  fishing.  .  .  .  With  IBM  since  1962,  Gerry 
Sutton  is  now  involved  in  product  development 
of  office  systems  in  White  Plains,  N.Y.  "When 
not  chasing  the  white  ball,  I  enjoy  solving  the 
mysteries  of  cars,"  he  writes.  HehastwoBMWs. 
The  Suttons'  son  just  graduated  from  Syracuse 
and  their  daughter  is  in  pre-law  at  Georgetown. 

John  Welsh  is  concerned  with  the  engineering 
and  marketing  of  computers  at  DEC.  He  partici- 
pates in  tennis,  sailing,  and  gardening. .  .  .  Gerrit 
Swarfs  wife,  Dixie,  points  out  that  they  lived  in 
1 3  different  places  in  the  first  1 3  years  of  their 
marriage.  Swart  is  an  engineering  associate  in 
the  Petroleum  Development  Department  at 
Exxon  Engineering  in  the  powerforming  area.  He 
and  his  family  lived  in  Europe  for  five  years  while 
working  for  Exxon.  The  youngest  of  his  three 
children,  Tim,  was  born  in  London.  The  Swarts 
are  now  located  in  Florham  Park,  N.J. .  .  . 

A  long-time  employee  of  Pratt  &  Whitney, 
James  Warren  now  holds  the  position  of  vice 
president  of  quality  control  in  P  &  W's  Machine 
Tool  Division  of  Colt  Industries  in  West  Hartford, 
Conn.  He  and  his  wife  are  incorporated  as 
Simsbury  Tennis  House,  Inc.  They  lease,  and 
Mimi  operates,  a  four-court  indoor  tennis  club. 
...  For  seven  years,  Donald  Zwiers  was  chief 
engineeratKemlitein  Joliet,  III.  In  1977  he  began 
using  Kemlite's  scrap  material  as  a  chain  link 
fence  filler  strip.  Now,  he  works  full  time  with 
Deco  Link,  after  developing  the  product  from 
nothing  to  a  growing  business.  Zwiers  has  four 
children.  Civic-minded,  he  has  been  on  the 
school  board  and  has  been  associated  with  the 
Lions  Club. 


1956 


Secretary; 

Rev  Paul  D.  Schoonmaker 

325  North  Lewis  Rd 

Royersford,  PA 

19568 


REUNION 

JUNE  4-7.  1 98 1 


Representative 
John  M.  McHugh 
431  Beacon  Hill  Dr 
Cheshire,  CT 
06410 


Joseph  Concordia,  a  project  manager  for 
Herzog-Hart  Corp.,  wrote  "Catalyst  Handling  in 
Batch  Hydrogenation"  which  appeared  in  the 
June  issue  of  CEP-Chemical  Engineering  Prog- 
ress. He  has  had  over  23  years  of  experience  in 
the  design  of  specialty  organic  chemicals  plants. 
.  .  .  Still  with  Schirmer  Engineering  Corp.,  David 
Provost  is  currently  a  senior  field  engineer  in  loss 
control.  He  is  a  licensed  professional  engineer  in 
California  in  fire  protection  and  accident  preven- 
tion in  industrial  and  commercial  properties. 


1957 


Secretary 

Dr  Robert  A.  Yates 

11  Oak  Ridge  Dr. 

Bethany,  CT 

06525 


Representative; 
Alex  C.  Papianou 
15  Birch  Tree  Rd. 
Foxboro,  MA 
02035 


Philip  Backlund  serves  as  manager  of  energy 
and  environmental  management  at  Rockwell 
International  Corp.,  Troy,  Mich.  ...  Dr.  Philip 
Rotondo  was  the  co-author  of  "Fiber  Reinforced 
Concrete  Poles  Developed,"  which  was  pub- 
lished in  the  June  issue  of  Transmission  and 
Distribution.  His  training  has  been  strongly 
oriented  to  structures  and  applied  mechanics 
and  has  been  applied  to  highway  bridge  con- 
struction, precast  concrete  structures,  aircraft 
engine  components,  and  nuclear  reactors.  He 
has  a  PhD  from  RPI,  is  a  registered  professional 
engineer,  and  is  a  consultant  in  Simsbury,  Conn. 


1958 


Secretary 

Hairy  R.  Rydstrom 

132  Sugartown  Rd. 

Devon,  PA 

19333 

Gas  Service,  Inc.,  has  appointed  Donald  Inglis  as 

vice  president  and  general  manager.  The  family 
is  relocating  from  Massachusetts  to  the  Nashua, 
N.H.area.  Inglis  has  been  with  the  Berkshire  Gas 
Company  of  Pittsfield,  Mass.  since  1958.  Before 
taking  his  new  post,  he  had  been  a  senior  vice 
president  at  Berkshire.  He  has  taken  a  numberof 
management  courses.  Civic-minded,  some  of  his 
community  posts  were  trustee  of  Farren  Memo- 
rial Hospital,  director  of  the  Valley  Credit  Bureau, 
and  corporator  of  the  Franklin  Savings  Institute. 
He  was  also  active  in  scouting,  and  was  a 
Montague  town  meeting  member. 

Bernard  Podberesky  was  named  manager  of 
purchasing  operations  for  GE  in  San  Jose,  Calif. 
The  Podbereskys  reside  in  Los  Altos  and  have 
three  daughters.  ...  In  June,  Norman  Taupeka 
graduated  from  the  Industrial  College  of  the 
Armed  Forces  in  Washington,  DC.  He  is  chief  of 
the  Systems  Engineering  Division  at  the  Center 
for  Tactical  Computer  Systems,  U.S.  Army 
Communications  Research  &  Development 
Command,  Fort  Monmouth,  N.J. 


1959 


Secretary: 

Dr  Frederick  H   Lutze,  Jr. 

1 10  Camelot  Court  NW 

Blacksburg,  VA 

24060 


Representative: 

Dr  Joseph  D  Bronzmo 

Trinity  College 

Summit  St. 

Hartford,  CT 

06106 


After  20  years  with  GE,  George  Constantine  is 
now  general  manager  of  Schulz  Electric  Co.,  a 
heavy  electrical  apparatus  repair  facility  in  New 
Haven,  Conn.  Annual  sales  of  $4  million  plus  and 
the  employment  of  80  people  make  Schulz 
Electrical  the  largest  independent  facility  of  this 
type  in  the  East. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Fall  1980  /  21 


i960 


Secretary: 
Paul  W.  Bayliss 
1 70  Wyngate  Dr. 
Barrington,  IL 
60010 


Representative 
John  W.  Biddle 
78  Highland  St. 
Holden,  MA 
01520 


1962 


Secretary: 
Harry  T.  Rapelje 
1313  Parma  Hilton  Rd. 
Hilton,  NY 
14468 


Representative 
Richard  J  DIBuono 
44  Lambert  Circle 
Marlboro,  MA 
01752 


1965 


Representative: 
Patrick  T  Moran 
100  Chester  Rd 
Boxboro,  MA 
01719 


Paul  Allaire,  deputy  managing  director  of  Rank 
Xerox  Limited,  London,  England,  has  been  ap- 
pointed managing  director.  (The  post  is  the 
American  equivalent  of  president.)  In  1966,  he 
received  his  master's  degree  from  Carnegie- 
Mellon  and  joined  Xerox  Corp.  as  a  financial 
analyst.  From  1970  to  1973  he  was  director  of 
financial  planning  and  control  at  Rank  Xerox  in 
London.  From  1973  to  1975,  he  returned  to 
corporate  headquarters  as  director  of  the  inter- 
national staff .  Returning  to  England  in  1975,  he 
became  chief  staff  officer  at  Rank  Xerox.  In 
1 979,  he  was  named  deputy  managing  director. 

The  Rev.  Charles  Heslan  was  awarded  the 
prestigious  1980  Roselle  W.  Huddilston  Medal 
at  the  annual  meeting  of  the  Maine  Lung  Associ- 
ation in  June.  The  medal  is  presented  annually  to 
an  individual  rendering  outstanding  service  in 
the  field  of  health,  one  "who  has  assessed  an 
unusual  health  need,  established  a  program  to 
meet  that  need,  a  program  that  could  be  used  as 
a  statewide  pilot  project."  Rev.  Heslan  was  the 
prime  motivator  behind  the  Arthur  Jewell  Com- 
munity Health  Center.  He  was  co-author  of  the 
original  grant  application  and  often  spoke  in 
support  of  the  center.  Rev.  Heslan  attended 
Fitchburg  State  College  and  graduated  from 
Bangor  Theological  Seminary.  He  holds  a  degree 
in  history  from  Wright  State  University. .  .  . 
Douglas  Kendrick  is  vice  president  of  engineer- 
ing at  Telex  Terminal  Communications  in 
Raleigh,  N.C. 


1961       REUNION 

JUNE  4-7,  1 98 1 
Secretary: 
John  J.  Gabarro 
8  Monadnock  Rd. 
Arlington,  MA 
02174 

Robert  Schomber  was  co-author  of  "A  Utility 
Centralizes  Its  Repair  and  Maintenance 
Facilities"  which  appeared  in  the  June  issue  of 
Transmission  and  Distribution.  He  holds  the 
post  of  supervisor  of  the  Equipment  Repair 
Center  at  Florida  Power  and  Light  Co.  Previ- 
ously, he  held  line  and  staff  assignments  in 
financial  and  manufacturing  capacities,  and  he 
has  been  budget  supervisor  and  internal  auditor 
for  FP&L.  A  senior  member  of  AIIE,  he  also  has 
an  MBA  in  finance  from  Syracuse  University. .  .  . 
Robert  Schuessler  is  vice  president  of  manufac- 
turing at  Majestic  Industries,  Teterboro,  N.J. .  .  . 
Kenneth  Tebo  serves  as  engineering  manager  at 
the  Berlyn  Corp.,  Worcester. 


J.  Alphee  Desjardins  is  an  associate  professor  at 
Northern  Essex  Community  College  in  Haverhill, 
Mass.  He,  his  wife,  Virginia,  and  four  children 
reside  in  Beverly. 


1963 


Secretary 

Robert  E.  Maynard.Jr 

8  Institute  Rd 

North  Grafton,  MA 

01536 


Representative 
Joseph  J  Mielinski,  Jr. 
34  Pioneer  Rd. 
Holden,  MA 
01520 


Continuing  with  the  U.S.  Army,  Herbert  Head  is 
now  a  Lt.  Colonel  at  Camp  H.M.  Smith  in 
Hawaii.  ...  Dr.  Daniel  Pender  recently  com- 
pleted a  research  fellowship  in  otology  at  Har- 
vard Medical  School. .  .  .  Edward  Polewarczyk  of 
Sundstrand  Corp.,  Rockford,  III.,  spoke  about 
the  space  program  at  the  Elks  Home  in  Webster, 
Mass.  in  June.  Ed  is  resident  materials  manager 
of  the  Space  Systems  Group,  Rockwell  Interna- 
tional, at  Sundstrand. 


I964 


Secretary 

Dr.  David  T.  Signori,  Jr 

6613  Denny  PI 

McLean,  VA 

22101 


Representative: 
Barry  J.  Kadets 
26  Harwich  Rd. 
Chestnut  Hill,  MA 
02167 


Continuing  with  Digital,  Richard  Downe  is  now 
principal  quality  engineer  for  the  firm  in  Au- 
gusta, Maine. .  .  .  Gary  Goshgarian  spoke  on  the 
topic,  "Atlantis:  Fact  and  Fiction"  at  the  annual 
meeting  of  the  Boston  chapter  of  the  National 
Association  for  Armenian  Studies  and  Research 
in  Cambridge  in  May.  His  first  novel,  Atlantis 
Fire  (see  the  spring  1980  Journal)  recently  re- 
leased by  Dial  Press,  has  been  judged  by  a  fellow 
author  as  "The  best  novel  I ' ve  read  in  five 
years."  .  .  .  Stephen  Harvey  has  received  his 
MSEE  from  Northeastern.  He  belongs  to  Pi  Tau 
Sigma  and  is  on  the  technical  staff  at  Bell  Labs, 
North  Andover,  Mass.  ...  Dr.  David  Laananen 
holds  the  post  of  manager  of  the  R&D  Division  at 
Simula,  Inc.,  in  Temple,  Arizona.  .  .  .  Robert 
Rounds,  Jr.  of  Rounds  Technical  Sales,  Inc., 
reports  that  his  business  is  presently  located  at 
912  North  Greenwood  Ave.,  Park  Ridge,  III. 
Formerly,  the  firm  was  headquartered  in 
Chicago.  ...  Dr.  Al  Potvin  participated  in  the 
ASEE-Biomedical  Engineering  Division  Confer- 
ence held  in  June  at  Amherst.  He  has  served  as 
chairman  of  the  Division  for  1 979-80.  During 
the  past  five  years,  three  WPI  electrical  engineer- 
ing graduates  have  been  Division  chairmen, 
including  Dr.  Bob  Peura,  '64,  and  Dr.  Joe  Bron- 
zino,  '59,  who  will  chair  in  1 980-81 .  Dr.  Potvin  is 
a  professor  and  chairman  of  Biomedical  En- 
gineering as  well  as  professor  of  electrical  en- 
gineering at  the  University  of  Texas  at  Arlington. 


Peter  Behmke  is  a  product  manager  at  Fram,  East 
Providence,  R.I.  The  Behmkes  reside  in  Seekonk, 
Mass.  .  .  .  John  Hart  has  just  been  appointed 
R&D  engineering  manager  of  Hewlett-Packard's 
Andover  division.  In  his  new  post,  he  is  responsi- 
ble for  all  technical  developments  on  the  diag- 
nostic medical  equipment  produced  by  the  divi- 
sion, such  as  ultrasonic  imaging  systems,  com- 
puterized EKG  analaysis  systems,  and  pulmonary 
diagnostic  systems.  John,  Andrea,  and  their  son, 
Jason,  live  in  Acton,  Mass. .  .  .  Benjamin 
Surowiecki  serves  as  vice  president  and  general 
manager  at  Loctite  Puerto  Rico.  .  .  .  Cdr.  Francis 
Watson  holds  the  position  of  director  of  the 
construction  support  division  at  Naval  Facilities 
Engineering  Command  in  Alexandria,  Va.  He  is 
in  the  Civil  Engineer  Corps  of  the  U.S.  Navy,  and 
has  an  MSCE  and  PhD  from  Georgia  Tech. .  .  . 
Dr.  Howard  Sachs  has  been  named  associate 
provost  in  the  Office  of  Academic  Affairs  at  Ohio 
State  University  in  Columbus.  Previously,  he  was 
assistant  dean  of  the  Graduate  College  of  the 
University  of  Illinois  at  the  Medical  Center  in 
Chicago.  He  taught  anatomy  and  histology  at 
Illinois  starting  in  1972,  and  became  assistant 
dean  in  1978.  His  field  of  research  is  devel- 
opmental physiology.  He  has  a  PhD  from  Clark 


I966       REUNION 

OCTOBER  1 98 1 

Secretary 
Gary  Dyckman 
29SkiltonLane 
Burlington,  MA 
01803 

^■Married:  Hugh  R.  McMenamy  and  Dr.  Marcia 
L.  Comstock  in  Summit,  New  Jersey  on  May  23, 
1980.  The  bride  graduated  from  Manhattanville 
College  and  Columbia  College  of  Physicians  and 
Surgeons.  Currently,  she  is  a  third-year  resident 
in  internal  medicine  at  Overlook  Hospital  in 
Summit.  Her  husband  graduated  from  Villanova, 
has  an  MSME  from  WPI,  and  holds  the  post  of 
senior  project  engineer  at  Exxon  Research  and 
Engineering  in  Florham  Park,  N.J. 

Dr.  Ronald  Finn  is  director  of  the  cyclotron 
facility  at  Mt.  Sinai  Medical  Center  in  Miami 
Beach,  Fla.  He  also  serves  as  adjunct  assistant 
professor  at  the  University  of  Miami  School  of 
Medicine.  .  .  .  Still  with  Heublein,  Raymond 
Hopkins  was  appointed  manager  of  the  Spirits 
Group  plant  in  Paducah,  Ky.  He  is  responsible  for 
all  manufacturing  operations  at  the  plant,  which 
bottles  such  Heublein  products  as  Smirnoff 
vodka,  Heublein  cocktails,  Black  Velvet  Cana- 
dian whiskey,  and  Black  &  White  scotch.  Hop- 
kins joined  Heublein  in  1969  as  a  management 
trainee,  and  most  recently  served  as  acting  plant 
manager  for  the  company's  plant  in  Allen  Park, 
Mich.  He  has  an  MBA  from  the  University  of 
Hartford.  .  .  .  Kyle  Ondricek  has  been  named 
business  manager  for  the  multi-media  filing 
group  at  National  of  Holyoke  (formerly  National 
Blank  Book).  Before  his  appointment,  he  was 
product  manager.  He  holds  a  degree  from 
Northwestern. 


22  /  Fall  1980  /  The  WPI  Journal 





William  Spratt  is  general  foreman  at  Rexnord 
in  Worcester.  .  .  .  Andrew  Warner,  Jr.  works  as 
an  associate  at  Leland  Computer  Services,  Inc., 
in  Atlanta,  Ga. .  .  .  Malcolm  White,  Jr.  is  a  senior 
laboratory  supervisor  at  Polaroid  in  Cambridge, 
Mass. 


I967 


Secretary: 

John  L.  Kilguss 

5  Summershade  Circle 

Piscataway.  NJ 

08854 


Representative 
Douglas  W.  Klauber 
10  Alice  Dr. 
Nashua,  NH 
03060 


>Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Frank  D.  Manter  their 
second  child,  Ian  Russel,  on  April  7,  1980.  Man- 
ter received  his  MS  in  management  from  WPI  in 
May. 

Roger  Bartholomew,  S.J.,  has  received  his 
master  of  divinity  degree  from  the  University  of 
Toronto.  He  serves  as  a  physics  teacher  at  Jesuit 
High  School  in  New  Orleans,  La. .  .  .  Joseph 
Cieplak  was  promoted  to  product  manager  for 
the  Riehle  and  Systems  product  lines  at  ACCO 
Industries,  Inc.,  Wilson  Instrument  Division, 
Bridgeport,  Conn.  The  two  product  lines  provide 
materials  testing  capabilities  to  determine 
strength  and  hardness.  ...  Dr.  Robert  Cornell, 
research  and  development  section  manager, 
specialty  chemicals,  at  Uniroyal,  Inc.,  has  been 
elected  to  the  board  of  directors  of  the  United 
Way  of  Naugatuck  and  Beacon  Falls,  Conn.  He 
holds  BS  and  MS  degrees  from  Clarkson  College 
and  a  Ph  D  from  WPI.  A  member  of  the  American 
Chemical  Society,  Polymer  Division,  he  also  be- 
longs to  Sigma  XL  .  .  .  Peter  Dickerson  serves  as 
project  manager  at  Badger  America,  Cambridge, 
Mass.  He,  his  wife,  and  two  children  live  in 
Acton. 

John  Dow  is  employed  as  assistant  to  the 
president  of  marketing  at  Page  Gulfstream  in 
San  Antonio,  Texas.  ...  Dr.  Lee  Estes  is  one  of 
two  professors  in  the  EE  department  at  South- 
eastern Massachusetts  University  sharing  a 
grant  from  the  office  of  Naval  Research  for 
$63,829.  Their  funded  research  project  is  aimed 
at  refining  the  use  of  sonar  in  detecting  under- 
water objects.  Since  1 976,  they  have  used 
sophisticated  laser  equipment  to  simulate  sound 
waves  in  a  miniaturized  marine  environment. 
Their  findings  will  aid  both  naval  submarine 
experts  and  maritime  industries.  Dr.  Estes  has 
taught  at  SMU  for  nine  years,  specializing  in 
optics  and  communications.  He  and  his  co- 
researcher  have  received  Navy  grants  totalling 
$210,000  in  four  years. .  .  .  Paul  Granchelli 
works  as  a  scientific  programming  specialist  for 
Lockheed  Missiles  and  Space  in  Linthicum,  Md. 
.  .  .  Still  with  Hughes  Aircraft  in  El  Segundo, 
Calif.,  Peter  Herron  is  currently  manager  of 
program  planning  and  control. 

Roy  Lindquist  has  been  promoted  to  manager 
of  product  development  at  Continental  Emsco 
Company,  Dallas,  Texas  .  .  .  Navy  Lt.  Cmdr. 
Robert  McAndrew  recently  participated  in  an 
amphibious  landing  exercise  at  Fort  Story,  Va. 
He  is  an  officer  assigned  to  detachment  106 
from  Amphibious  Construction  Battalion  Two 
based  in  Roanoke.  The  amphibious  landing  was 
a  substitute  for  a  similar  landing  at  Guantanamo 
Bay,  Cuba,  as  part  of  the  Atlantic  Fleet's  annual 
training  operation,  "Solid  Shield."  The  original 
maneuver  was  canceled  by  the  president  in  order 
to  divert  ships  to  help  the  refugees  from  Cuba. 
McAndrew  joined  the  Navy  in  1967. 


I968 


Secretary: 

Charles  A.  Griffin 
2901  Municipal  Pier  Rd 
Shreveport,  LA 
71119 


Representative 
William  J.  Rasku 
33  Mark  Bradford  Dr. 
Holden,  MA 
01520 


^■Married:  Francis  (Frank)  K.  Verderber  and 
Barbara  Georgakis  on  July  27, 1 980.  The  bride,  a 
dental  hygienist,  graduated  from  Farmingdale 
State  in  New  York.  Her  husband  is  a  corrosion 
control  engineer  for  Long  Island  Lighting  Co. 

Edward  Cannon,  varsity  soccer  coach  at  St. 
Anselm's  College,  was  on  the  staff  of  the  Soccer 
Farm  in  Pomfret,  Conn,  as  an  instructor  in 
August.  He  also  served  as  program  coordinator 
for  one  of  the  sessions.  The  Soccer  Farm  offers 
summer  clinics  for  boys  and  girls  from  8  to  1 8. 
.  .  .  Jeff  Decker  just  moved  to  Cincinnati  where 
he  joined  the  executive  committee  of 
Winegardner  &  Hammons,  Inc.  His  prime  re- 
sponsibility is  in  hotel  and  restaruant  develop- 
ment and  corporate  planning.  He  holds  the  post 
of  senior  vice  president  of  the  company.  .  .  . 
Charles  Griffin  is  a  research  associate  in  the 
department  of  biochemistry  at  the  Louisiana 
State  University  Medical  School  in  Shreveport, 
LA.  He  also  owns  Water  Trails  Canoes,  a  canoe 
rental  and  sales  business.  .  .  .  Ted  Heidt  is  em- 
ployed as  a  financial  analyst  for  Air  Products  & 
Chemicals  in  Allentown,  Pa.  He  has  MS  degrees 
from  Carnegie-Mellon  and  the  University  of 
Pittsburgh. 

Dr.  Ronald  Jodoin,  an  assistant  physics  pro- 
fessor at  Rochester  Institute  of  Technology,  has 
just  received  tenure  from  RIT.  He  and  Martha 
have  two  children  and  live  in  Pittsford,  NY.  .  .  . 
Chester  Kasper,  Jr.  now  holds  the  position  of 
senior  sales  engineer  at  Pearse  &  Pearson, 
Bloomfield,  Conn.  .  .  .  William  Mahoney  serves 
as  senior  editor  at  R.S.  Means,  Inc.,  Kingston, 
Mass.  He  and  Joanna  have  four  children  and  live 
in  Plymouth.  .  .  .  Richard  Scaia  is  district  en- 
gineer at  the  Torrington  Co.  in  Hinsdale,  III.  .  .  . 
Edward  Zakzerewski  continues  with  Arco/ 
Polymers  Research  and  Development,  which  is 
relocating  to  the  Philadelphia  area. 


I969 


Secretary: 
lames  P.  Atkinson 
41  Naples  Rd. 
Brookline,  MA 
02146 


Representative 
Michael  W  Noga 
West  Bare  Hill  Rd. 
Harvard.  MA 
01451 


^Married:  James  F.  Baxendaleto  Linda  L.  Polk 
in  Asbury  Park,  New  Jersey.  Mrs.  Baxendale 
graduated  from  Stuart  School  of  Business  Ad- 
ministration, Asbury  Park.  The  bridegroom  has  a 
degree  from  Fairleigh  Dickinson  University.  They 
are  both  employed  by  the  U.S.  government  at 
Fort  Monmouth,  N.J.  .  .  .  Ralph  J.  Eschborn  II 
and  Ellen  E.  Asanoff  on  June  28,  1980  in  Fair- 
field, Connecticut.  The  bride  is  a  Phi  Beta  Kappa 
graduate  from  Lafayette  College,  Easton,  Pa. 
She  is  an  engineer  for  du  Pont  in  Wilmington, 
where  her  husband  holds  the  post  of  product 
technologist.  .     .  Paul  T.  Shea  and  Kathy  A. 
Ohanian  on  August  3,  1980  in  Providence, 
Rhode  Island.  Mrs.  Shea  graduated  from  URI. 
The  groom  who  has  a  master's  degree  from  URI, 
is  currently  a  PhD  candidate.  He  is  with  du  Pont 
in  Wilmington,  Delaware. 


Carl  Ballard  is  employed  as  a  senior  engineer 
at  Westinghouse-Bettis  in  West  Mifflin,  Pa. .  .  . 
Rodney  Dahlstrom  works  as  a  senior  process 
engineer  at  Stone  &  Webster  Engineering,  Bos- 
ton. .  .  .  James  Hills  was  appointed  engineering 
manager  of  the  Lakso  Company,  a  division  of 
Package  Machinery  Company,  in  Leominster, 
Mass.  For  the  past  year,  he  operated  his  own 
business,  Custom  Valves  and  Controls  Corpora- 
tion of  Worcester.  Previously,  he  was  engineer- 
ing manager  at  Worcester  Controls  Corporation. 
He  belongs  to  the  Instrument  Society  of  America 
and  the  ISA  Control  Valve  Standard  Committee. 
.  .  .  Formerly  vice  president  of  economic  devel- 
opment for  the  Blackstone  Valley  Chamber  of 
Commerce  and  project  manager  for  the  Second 
Pawtucket  Area  Industrial  Development  Foun- 
dation, John  Poblocki  recently  joined  Kates 
Properties,  Inc.  of  Providence.  He  is  vice  presi- 
dent of  project  development  at  the  real  estate 
development  firm.  Earlier,  he  played  a  promi- 
nent role  in  the  development  of  the  North 
Central-295  Industrial  Park  in  Lincoln. 

James  Rodier,  rates  engineer  for  Public  Ser- 
vice Company,  was  one  of  several  public  utility 
representatives  who  spoke  before  the  Southern 
New  Hampshire  Association  of  Commerce  & 
Industry,  Inc.,  in  June.  The  general  topic  of  the 
public  forum  was  the  future  of  their  companies 
and  its  effect  upon  business.  Rodier  has  a  juris 
doctorate  from  Suffolk  Law  School.  Prior  to 
joining  Public  Service  Company  as  a  staff  en- 
gineer in  1 976,  he  worked  as  a  specialist  in  utility 
rate  matters  and  regulation  for  firms  in  Boston 
and  New  York  City.        B.  Lee  Turtle  has  com- 
pleted his  PhD  in  metallurgy  and  is  now  teaching 
at  General  Motors  Institute  in  the  areas  of 
metallurgy  and  manufacturing  processing. 


1970 


Secretary: 

F.  David  Ploss  III 

208  St.  Nicholas  Ave. 

Worcester,  MA 

01606 


Representative: 
Garrett  G  Graham 
150BrooksideRd. 
Needham,  MA 
02194 


^■Married:  Maine  Congressman  David  F.  Emery 
and  Carol  L.  Rordam  on  June  21 ,  1980  in 
Alexandria,  Virginia.  Mrs.  Emery  serves  as  a 
legislative  advisor  on  energy  matters  for  Con- 
gressman W.  Henson  Moore  (R-La.).  The  couple 
plans  to  establish  a  permanent  residence  in 
Emery's  hometown  of  Rockland. 

M.E.  (Rico)  Argentati  has  been  promoted  to 
supervisor  by  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc., 
Denver,  Colorado.  With  Bell  since  1972,  he 
holds  a  master's  degree  in  engineering  science 
from  the  University  of  California  at  San  Diego 
and  a  master's  degree  in  applied  mathematics 
from  the  University  of  Colorado  at  Boulder.  As 
supervisor  of  the  Administration  and  Traffic 
Measurements  Group  in  the  Customer  Switch- 
ing Laboratory,  Argentati  directs  development 
of  Dimension  PBX  off-line  computer  software, 
traffic  measurements,  and  real-time  models.  The 
Dimension  PBX  is  an  electronic  private  branch 
exchange  developed  by  Bell  Labs  for  business 
customers  and  manufactured  by  Western  Elec- 
tric in  Denver.  The  Argentatis  and  their  year-old 
daughter,  Angela,  live  in  Englewood. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Fall  1980  /  23 


Peter  Bladen  is  senior  engineer  at  Bechtel 
Power  Corp.,  Gaithersburg,  Md.  He  recently 
received  his  MS  from  North  Carolina  State  Uni- 
versity..  .  .  Daniel  Breen  serves  as  product  man- 
agerforthe  Spectronics  Division  of  Honeywell  in 
Richardson,  Texas.  .  .  .  Daniel  Czernicki  works 
as  a  technical  representative  at  Naval  Underwa- 
ter Systems  Center,  Goodyear  Aerospace  Corp. , 
Akron,  Ohio.  .  .  .  Raymond  Danahy  received  his 
PhD  in  nuclear  physics  at  WPI  in  May.  He 
teaches  physics  at  Norwich  University,  North- 
field,  VT. .  .  .  Andy  Donaldson  is  employed  as  a 
lead  process  engineer  at  Stearns-Roger,  Denver, 
Colo.  He  and  Judy  have  two  children  and  live  in 
Parker.  .  .  .  William  Dudzik  continues  as  an 
operations  research  analyst  with  the  U.S.  Navy 
at  the  Washington,  D.C.  Navy  Yard.  .  .  .  Roger 
Johnson  is  a  corrosion  engineer  at  Southern 
Connecticut  Gas  Co.,  New  Haven.  .  .  .  Alan 
Kolaczkowski  serves  as  a  member  of  the  techni- 
cal staff  at  Sandia  National  Labs  in  Albuquerque, 
N.M. 

Kent  Lawson  has  been  promoted  to  principal 
quality  assurance  engineer  by  the  Polaroid  Cor- 
poration. He  is  publicity  chairman,  senior 
member,  and  member  of  the  executive  commit- 
tee of  the  Boston  section  of  the  American  Society 
for  Quality  Control.  Also,  he  is  vice  president  of 
the  board  of  directors  of  the  Nassau  Gardens 
Cooperative  Housing  Association,  a  204-unit 
luxury  living  complex  in  Norwood,  Mass.  He  will 
continue  his  responsibilities  as  a  camera  devel- 
opment engineer  in  the  Polaroid  Program  Of- 
fice, a  group  which  shakes  down  new  camera 
designs,  plans  the  product  and  process  flow,  and 
brings  the  product  to  full  production.  He  was 
instrumental  in  the  development  of  the  SX  70, 
Pronto,  and  One  Step  cameras. 

Rajnikant  Mehta  holds  the  post  of  manager  of 
the  engineering  department  at  Noblewest  in 
East  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Having  resigned  from 
active  duty  as  a  U.S.  Army  captain  last  year,  Alan 
Prucnal  is  now  a  contracting  officer's  repre- 
sentative (civilian)  for  the  Army  in  Heidelberg, 
Germany.  He  has  been  in  Germany  since  1975, 
and  he  plans  to  stay  in  Europe  for  at  least  two 
more  years. .  .    Robert  Rosenberg  is  a  real  estate 
broker  and  developer  with  Robert  A.  Rosenberg 
Associates  in  Quincy,  Calif.  He  is  a  graduate  of 
the  Realtors  Institute.  .  .  .  Anthony  Toscano  is 
now  senior  project  manager  for  Buell  Division  of 
Envirotech  Corp.  in  Lebanon,  Pa. 


1971 


Secretary: 
Vincent  T.  Pace 
4707  Apple  Lane 
West  Deptford,  NJ 
08066 


^■Married:  Paul  B.  Sullivan  and  Kathleen  M. 
Sch warz  on  June  2 1 ,  1 980  in  Keyport,  New 
Jersey.  The  bride  is  a  computer  programmer  for 
American  Telephone  &  Telegraph.  She 
graduated  from  Glassboro  State  College.  The 
groom  is  a  systems  designer  for  Western  Electric 
Co.  and  holds  a  master's  degree  from  Stevens 
Institute  of  Technology.  .  .  .  John  Szoke,  Jr.  and 
Joan  Ricklefs  on  August  2,  1980  in  Portsmouth, 
New  Hampshire.  Mrs.  Szoke,  a  music  teacher  in 
Auburn,  Mass.,  graduated  from  Manhattanville 
College  and  UMass.  Her  husband  serves  as  a 
biomedical  engineer  at  Hewlett-Packard  in 
Lexington,  Mass. 


Presently,  Dick  Arena  is  relocating  to  Michi- 
gan as  the  result  of  a  promotion.  He  is  sales 
manager  of  the  automotive  section  at  Martin 
Marietta  Aluminum  in  Southfield. ...  Dr.  Joseph 
Carter,  who  received  an  MS  from  the  University 
of  Minnesota  this  year,  is  with  the  Euclid  Clinic 
Foundation  in  Cleveland,  Ohio. .  .  .  Steven  Chan 
serves  as  a  staff  engineer  at  Ampex  Corporation, 
Redwood  City,  Calif.  He  received  his  MSEE  from 
WPI  this  year.  The  Chans  and  their  two  children 
reside  in  Fremont,  Calif. .  .  .  Jim  Crittenden  has 
just  taken  the  position  of  project  engineer  at 
USCI  Division  of  C.R.  Bard  in  Billerica,  Mass.  He 
spent  the  previous  four  years  as  president  of  a 
small  company  he  co-founded  in  1 976.  The  firm 
made  products  used  in  cardiovascular  medicine. 
USCI,  his  current  employer,  now  owns  the  busi- 
ness. In  1 975,  Jim  won  the  Sports  Car  Club  of 
America's  A  Sedan  National  Championship  and 
was  runner-up  in  1976.  He  continues  racing, 
sponsored  by  Mecca  Development,  which 
makes  state-of-the-art  lubricating  systems  for 
cars. 

Dr.  BaljitGambhir  is  a  senior  engineer  at  Shell 
Oil  in  Houston. .  .  .  Alan  Gradet,  an  environmen- 
tal engineer  at  Environmental  Research  & 
Technology,  Inc.  (ERT),  Houston  Engineering 
Division,  was  co-author  of  Part  II  of  "Environ- 
mental Outlook  for  the  '80s"  (Managing 
Hazardous  Wastes  Under  RCRA),  in  the  July 
issue  of  Chemical  Engineering.  At  ERT,  Gradet  is 
responsible  for  business  and  technical  develop- 
ment of  the  firm's  hazardous-waste  consulting 
services  in  the  Gulf  Coast  region.  .  .  .  Chia-Soon 
Ku  serves  as  a  senior  research  engineer  at  the 
National  Bureau  of  Standards  in  Washington, 
D.C.  He  has  a  PhD  from  Penn  State  University. 

Dr.  Richard  Lindsay  continues  as  a  research 
associate  for  the  Grinding  Wheel  Division  at 
Norton  Co.,  Worcester.  One  of  his  respon- 
sibilities is  to  outline  safe  grinding  practices  to 
users  of  Norton's  grinding  wheels.  Through 
seminars  he  has  conducted,  and  technical  papers 
he  has  written,  he  tries  to  impart  a  better  under- 
standing of  the  nature  of  grinding.  Lindsay  holds 
a  PhD  from  WPI.  He  attended  Worcester  Junior 
College  and  graduated  first  in  a  class  of  1200  at 
Northeastern,  where  he  studied  mechanical  en- 
gineering. He  has  a  master's  degree  from  MIT.  A 
noted  expert  in  his  field,  he  was  elected  to  CIRP, 
the  prestigious  international  institution  for 
production-engineering  research.  .  .  .  Michael 
Murphy  has  been  promoted  to  production  man- 
ager at  Brockway  Plastics  in  Sloatsburg,  N.Y.  He 
transferred  from  Nashua,  N.H.  .  .  .  Peter  Salis 
was  promoted  to  engineering  superintendent  at 
National  Starch  and  Chemical  Corporation  in 
Indianapolis.  He  joined  the  firm  following 
graduation,  and  belongs  to  the  American  Insti- 
tute of  Chemical  Engineers.  .  .  .  Ray  Skowyra  is 
employed  as  a  marketing  specialist  at  GE  Plastics 
Division  in  Minneapolis. 


1972 


Secretary: 

John  A  Woodward 

Rte.  1 

Box  7516,  Fawnbrook 

Hillsborough,  NC 

27278 


Representative. 
Thomas  J.  Tracy 
68MendonSt 
Uxbndge,  MA 
01569 


►A/lamed.  Alan  E.  Dion  to  Patricia  P.  DesRoches 
on  April25, 1980  in  Decatur,  Georgia.  Mrs.  Dion 
graduated  from  Rhode  Island  Junior  College  and 
Providence  College,  and  is  program  director  of 
the  DeKalb  County  E.O.A.  The  groom  received 
his  master's  degree  from  URL  He  is  an  environ- 
mental engineer  with  the  U.S.  EPA. .  .  .  Michael 
J.  Ingemi  and  Irene  S.  Wiik  in  Norwood,  Mas- 
sachusetts. The  bride  graduated  from  Westfield 
State  College. .  .  .  Alan  Nafis  and  Sandra  Busk 
on  June  7, 1980  in  Cheshire,  Connecticut.  Mrs. 
Nafis  is  a  graduate  of  Stone  School  of  Business. 
.  .  .  Kurt  M.  Wusterbarth  and  Arlene  E.  Ryan  on 
June  7,  1980  in  Meriden,  Connecticut.  Mrs. 
Wusterbarth,  an  economist,  graduated  from  Al- 
bertus  Magnus  College  and  Georgetown  Uni- 
versity. Her  husband  is  a  consulting  engineer. 

>Bom:  to  Betzi  and  John  Powers  a  son, 
Thomas  Ohlson,  on  July  7,  I980.  Tom,  the 
grandson  of  W.  Robert  Powers,  '37,  joins  his 
brother,  Jay,  5. 

Roy  Aloisio  serves  as  a  social  worker  for  the 
State  of  Vermont  in  Newport.  He  and  his  wife 
Kathy  live  in  Morrisville.  .  .  .  Denis  Kokernak  is 
presently  with  USCI-C.R.  Bard,  Billerica,  Mass. 
.  .  .  Vahe  Krikorian  works  as  a  business  quality 
manager  at  Digital  in  Maynard,  Mass.  ...  Dr. 
Roy  Lindblad  received  his  DDS  from  Case- 
Western  in  May.  He  is  a  dentist  at  St.  Francis 
Hospital,  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Mahendrakumar 
Patel  is  employed  as  project  engineer  at  Tembec, 
Inc.,  Temiscaming,  Quebec.  He  and  Sarla  have 
two  children.  .  .  .  Bertrand  Stanfield-Pinel  holds 
the  post  of  vice  president  and  general  manager 
of  Feau  Realty  Development  &  Management  in 
Scottsdale,  Ariz. .  .  .  Arnope  Tantuvanich  works 
as  a  design  engineer  at  Tekform  Products  Co., 
Anaheim,  Calif.  .  .    John  Woodward  is  a  service 
administrator  for  GTE  Southeast  in  Durham, 
N.C.  He  has  a  master's  degree  from  USC. 


1973 


Representative 
Robert  E  Akie 
33-8  Sheridan  Dr. 
Shrewsbury,  MA 
01545 


Secretary 
lay  I.  Schnitzer 
322  St.  Paul  St. 
Apt  #3 
Brookline.  MA 
02146 

^■Married:  David  S.  Bowen  and  Pamela  Wal- 
dron  on  May  23,  1980  in  South  Windsor,  Con- 
necticut. The  bride  graduated  from  Central 
Connecticut  State  College,  and  is  employed  by 
the  Living  and  Learning  Schools,  Farmington. 
Her  husband  works  for  Travelers  Insurance  in 
Hartford. .  .  .  Mark  D.  Whitley  and  Janice  M.  Bell 
of  New  Orleans,  Louisiana  on  June  22,  1979. 
Mrs.  Whitley  graduated  from  the  University  of 
Southwest  Louisiana  with  a  BA  in  business. 
Recently,  Whitley  was  promoted  to  the  post  of 
senior  reservoir  engineer  with  Shell  Oil  Co.  in 
New  Orleans,  where  he  is  involved  in  economic 
analysis  and  reservoir  evaluation. 


24  /  Fall  1 980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


r  j  i*ii  ifci* 


Jason  Burbank  has  received  his  MSME  from 
UMass,  Amherst.  His  master's  project  was  con- 
cerned with  passive  solar  heating  in 
greenhouses.  Presently,  he  is  employed  by 
Cleverdon,  Varney,  &  Pike  in  Boston.  .  .  .  Mark 
Cichocki  serves  as  a  field  service  engineer  at 
Coppus  Engineering,  Worcester.      .  Jay  Di- 
mand  is  a  member  of  the  technical  staff  at 
Schlumberger-Doll  Research  in  Ridgefield, 
Conn.  .  .  .  Frederick  Kulas  has  left  IBM  to  join 
Digital  Equipment  as  a  product  marketing  man- 
ager. In  his  new  post,  he  is  responsible  for 
product  strategy,  promotion,  market  develop- 
ment, and  forecasting  for  Digital's  Microcompu- 
ter Products  Group  in  Marlboro,  Mass.  His  wife, 
Sue,  who  holds  an  EdM  degree  from  Harvard,  is 
assistant  dean  of  continuing  education  at  Dean 
Junior  College  in  Franklin,  Mass.  .  .  .  Kenneth 
Larsson  works  as  a  project  engineer  at  Converse 
Ward  Davis  Dixon  in  Caldwell,  N.J.  He  has  an  MS 
from  Columbia. 

Roger  Lavallee  was  recently  promoted  to 
actuarial  research  assistant  at  Aetna  Life  &  Casu- 
alty in  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Edward  Peczynski 
was  promoted  to  the  post  of  senior  engineer  at 
Northeast  Utilities,  Hartford,  Conn.  He  is  a  regis- 
tered professional  engineer  (Conn.)  and  has  a 
master's  degree  from  RPI.  In  1973,  he  started  at 
NU  as  an  assistant  engineer  and  was  named 
associate  engineer  in  1975.  He  was  promoted  to 
company  engineer  in  1978.  He  belongs  to  IEEE, 
and  is  past  chairman  of  the  IEEE  education 
committee,  as  well  as  being  a  member  of  the 
adjunct  faculty  at  the  University  of  Hartford. .  .  . 
Martha  Ryan  is  employed  as  a  process  engineer 
at  Digital  Equipment  in  Hudson,  Mass. 

Roberto  Slimak  continues  as  the  self- 
employed  vice  president  of  Textilera  Avila  in 
Caracas,  Venezuela.  .  .  .  Richard  Socha  has  re- 
ceived his  PhD  in  chemical  engineering  from 
WPI.  Since  January,  he  has  been  employed  as  a 
research  engineer  at  Mobil  Research  and  Devel- 
opment Corp.,  Princeton,  NJ.  As  part  of  his 
graduate  research,  in  1977  he  and  his  wife 
Luanne  spent  six  months  in  the  USSR,  where  he 
worked  with  Soviet  scientists  as  part  of  the 
American-Soviet  Collaboration  in  Catalysis,  Ap- 
plication to  Manned  Space  Flights.  The  Sochas 
have  a  son,  Michael.  .  .  .  Still  with  A.E.  Staley 
Mfg.  Co.,  John  Whitney  currently  works  as  a 
syrup  refinery  superintendent  in  Morrisville,  Pa. 


1974 


Secretary: 
James  F  Rubino 
4433  Crossbridge  Ct 
Plainfield,  IN 
46168 


Representative: 
David  G.  Lapre 
P  O  Box  384 
Tunkhannock,  PA 
18657 


^■Married:  Albert  E.  Barrett,  Jr.  and  Allison 
Quirk  in  Farmington,  Connecticut  on  May  10, 
1 980.  Mrs.  Barrett,  an  artist,  graduated  from  the 
University  of  Connecticut.  The  bridegroom  is  a 
senior  engineer  with  Instron  Corporation,  Can- 
ton, Mass.  .  .  .  Neil  E.  Billings  to  Nancy  M. 
Vaccaon  April  12,  1980  in  Sterling,  Mas- 
sachusetts. The  bride,  a  Tahanto  Regional  High 
School  graduate,  is  a  secretary  at  Alden  Research 
Lab.  Her  husband  is  employed  at  GE  in  Lynn, 
Mass.  .  .  .  James  F.  Rubino  to  Ann  L.  Boyle  in 
Natick,  Massachusetts  on  July  12, 1980.  Mrs. 
Rubino  graduated  from  Green  Mountain  Jr. 


College  and  UMass.  She  is  an  educational  con- 
sultant at  Curriculum  Associates.  The  groom 
holds  the  post  of  district  engineer  for  the  Tor- 
rington  Co.  in  Indianapolis,  Ind.  .  .  .  William  P. 
Tanguay  and  Nancy  L.  Boynton  in  South  Bend, 
Indiana.  The  bride,  a  registered  nurse  specializ- 
ing in  allergy  medicine,  holds  a  BS  in  nursing 
from  St.  Teresa's  College,  Winona,  Minn.  Her 
husband  is  employed  as  a  senior  electrical  en- 
gineer at  Hammond  Organ,  Chicago.  The  Tan- 
guays  are  members  of  Ocean,  a  popular  rock 
group  in  the  Chicago  area. 
>Born:  to  Jim  and  Lexy  Chito  Ferraris,  77,  a 
daughter,  Nina  Elizabeth,  on  July  20, 1980.  Jim, 
with  the  Trane  Co.,  is  headquartered  in  Avon, 
Conn.  The  family  resides  in  Burlington. 
Brian  Anderson  is  regional  sales  manager  at 
Anacon,  Inc.,  Burlington,  Mass.  .  .    James 
Bowen  now  holds  the  post  of  product  support 
engineer  at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  in  West 
Palm  Beach,  Fla.  Heand  Judy  have  two  children. 
...  In  May,  Roger  Broeker,  Jr.  received  his  MBA 
from  the  University  of  Houston.  He  is  an  instru- 
ment engineer  at  S.I. P.  Engineering  in  Houston. 
.  .  .  Robert  Bryant  serves  as  a  control  engineer  at 
General  Public  Utilities,  Reading,  Pa. .  .  .  Wayne 
Bryant  is  a  systems  programmer  at  Teradyne  in 
Boston.  .  .  .  Thomas  Burns  is  employed  by  GE's 
Gas  Turbine  Control  Systems  in  Schenectady, 
NY...  Robert  Dutson  works  as  an  accounts 
loss  prevention  consultant  for  the  Kemper 
Group,  Summit,  N.J.  He  belongs  to  the  Society  of 
Fire  Protection  Engineers. 

John  Fanotto  recently  passed  the  Professional 
Engineers'  exam  in  the  state  of  California.  Cur- 
rently, he's  lead  field  engineer  with  Bechtel 
Power  Corp.  at  San  Onofre  Nuclear  Power  plant 
in  San  Clemente.  .  .  .  David  Gerth,  a  CPA,  now 
serves  as  manager  of  the  Administrative  Services 
Division  of  Arthur  Andersen  &  Co. ,  Boston.  He 
has  an  MBA  from  Amos  Tuck  School, 
Dartmouth.  ...  In  March,  Donald  Gross  was 
promoted  to  captain  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force.  Re- 
cently, he  returned  from  an  18-month  tour  in 
Korea,  and  he  is  now  attending  undergraduate 
pilot  training  at  Reese  AFB  in  Texas.  .  .  .  Bruce 
Lackey  holds  the  post  of  regional  analytics  spe- 
cialist at  Sybron/Taylor,  San  Leandro,  Calif. .  .  . 
Richard  Ludorf  is  employed  by  the  system  plan- 
ning department  at  Northeast  Utilities  Service 
Co.,  Hartford,  Conn. 

Gary  Pontbriand  is  now  assistant  plant  man- 
ager at  Quabaug  Rubber  Co.,  North  Brookfield, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Irvin  Press  holds  the  position  of 
marketing  manager  at  the  Robbins  Co.,  Attle- 
boro,  Mass.  He  has  an  MBA  from  Boston  Univer- 
sity. .  .  .  Stanley  Purington  is  employed  by  Boe- 
ing as  a  specialist  engineer  in  Everett, 
Washington.  .  .  .  Joseph  Strempek  works  as  a 
service  engineer  for  Babcock  &  Wilcox,  Houston, 
Texas.  .  .  .  Richard  Takanen  is  employed  as 
manager  of  manufacturing  engineering  at  GE  in 
Riverview,  Mich.  .  .  .  Brad  Wetzel  is  a  senior 
project  engineer  at  Sun  Gas  Co.,  Houston.  The 
Wetzels  and  their  two  children  live  in  Missouri 
City.  .  .  .  Edwin  Wiles  serves  as  design  engineer 
at  Reynolds  Metals  Company  in  Richmond,  Va. 


1975 


Secretary 

James  D.  Aceto,  Jr. 

35Ticonderogal_ane 

Millis,  MA 

02054 


Representative 
William  F.  George 
27  Old  Farm  Rd. 
Spencer,  MA 
01562 


^Married:  Dr.  Andrew  C.  G.  Armstrong  and  Dr. 

Nancy  E.  Mraz  on  August  9,  1980  in  Fort 
Fairfield,  Maine.  The  bride  and  groom,  both 
graduates  of  New  England  College  of  Op- 
tometry, Boston,  share  a  practice  of  optometry 
in  Plymouth,  N.H.  The  bride  is  also  a  graduate  of 
the  University  of  Maine  at  Farmington. .  .  . 
Patricia  A.  Graham  and  Robert  J.  Flaherty  on 
June  29,  1980  in  Worcester.  Mrs.  Flaherty  is  a 
mathematics  instructor  at  Central  New  England 
College  and  at  Assabet  Valley  Regional  Voca- 
tional School.  The  bridegroom  graduated  from 
Bowdoin  College  and  from  Nichols  College, 
where  he  received  his  master's  degree.  He  is  an 
area  representative  for  Pitney  Bowes  in 
Waltham. .  .  .  Robert  E.  Linna,  Jr.  and  Connie  A. 
Sullivan  on  May  10, 1980  in  South  Yarmouth, 
Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Linna  graduated  from 
Dennis-Yarmouth  Regional  High  School.  She 
was  formerly  employed  at  Bass  River  Savings 
Bank.  Her  husband  serves  as  a  computer  pro- 
grammer at  Coppus  Engineering,  Worcester. 

>Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Alan  Bergstrom  a 
daughter,  Katharine,  on  October  10,  1979. 
Bergstrom  is  an  associate  in  research  in  the 
dermatology  department  at  Yale  School  of 
Medicine.  ...  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Kenneth  W. 
Linder  a  son,  Ken,  Jr.,  on  October  16, 1979. 
Linder  is  a  chemical  account  engineer  for  Indus- 
trial Risk  Insurers  in  Chicago.  He  and  his  wife, 
Sue,  live  in  Naperville,  III. 

Richard  Caruso  works  as  a  process  design 
engineer  at  Hydrocarbon  Research,  Inc.,  Miami. 
.  .  .  David  Chevalier  continues  as  a  buyer  for 
Chevalier  Furniture,  Worcester. .  .    Louis  Chris- 
tof  oro  serves  as  data  processing  manager  at 
Tech  Hifi,  Inc.,  Randolph,  Mass.  .  .  .  Michael 
Dolan  holds  the  post  of  process  development 
engineer  at  Mobil  R&D  Corp.  in  Paulsboro,  N.J. 
.  .  .  Francis  DuGrenier  is  in  the  final  year  of  a  PhD 
program  in  the  School  of  Business  at  UMass, 
where  he  is  a  research  associate.  He  received  his 
MBA  in  1977. .  .  .  Presently,  Glenn  Ekwall  works 
as  an  on-site  project  manager  in  the  RCC  Unit  at 
Ashland  Oil  for  U.O.P.  Inc.,  Des  Plaines,  III. 
Recently,  he  was  transferred  from  the  technical 
service  department,  for  which  he  and  his  wife 
had  traveled  throughout  Europe  on  various  re- 
finery startup  activities. 

In  May,  Richard  Gannon  received  a  doctor  of 
pharmacy  degree  from  Philadelphia  College  of 
Pharmacy  and  Science.  He  earned  his  BS  in 
science  from  the  University  of  Connecticut 
School  of  Pharmacy.  A  member  of  Rho  Chi 
national  honor  society,  he  did  his  pharmacy 
residency  at  Thomas  Jefferson  University  Hospi- 
tal, Philadelphia.  .  .  .  Robert  Granger  was 
awarded  his  JD,  cum  laude,  from  Suffolk  Univer- 
sity Law  School  recently.  He  is  a  principal  consul- 
tant for  Chas.  T.  Main,  Inc.,  Boston. .  .  .  Edward 
Greenebaum  holds  the  position  of  project  en- 
gineer at  Huth  Engineers,  Inc.,  Lancaster,  Pa.  He 
is  a  registered  professional  engineer  in  Pennsyl- 
vania. .  .  .  Frederick  Greulich  is  Coast  depart- 
ment manager  at  Procter  &  Gamble  Mfg.  Co., 
Staten  Island,  N.Y. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Fall  1980  /  25 


Charlene  Hodgkins  works  for  CY/RO  Indus- 
tries in  Stamford,  Conn. .  .  .  Louis  Isgur  received 
his  MBA  from  Suffolk  University,  Boston,  on 
June  8th.  He  is  a  member  of  Delta  Mu  Delta  and 
serves  as  production  engineer,  small  systems 
division,  at  Honeywell  in  Lawrence,  Mass. .  .  . 
Moshen  Kavehrad,  who  has  a  PhD  from 
Polytechnic  Institute  of  Brooklyn,  is  senior  staff 
engineer  at  GTE  Satellite  Corp.,  Stamford,  Conn. 
.  .  .  Jonathan  Leather  is  employed  as  a  field 
engineer  at  Imperial  Metallic  Lubricants,  Inc., 
Dedham,  Mass.  ...  Dr.  Joseph  LeBritton  con- 
tinues as  a  research  associate  in  physics  at  the 
University  of  Rochester  in  New  York.  His  spe- 
cialty is  particle  physics  research  at  Brookhaven 
Lab.  Last  year,  he  received  his  PhD  from  the 
University  of  Rochester. .  .  .  Last  fall,  Penn  Pixley 
was  promoted  to  plant  engineer  at  the  Celotex 
Corp.  plant  in  Quincy,  III.  He  supervises  the 
departments  of  maintenance,  power  genera- 
tion, and  engineering. 

David  Salomaki  and  his  wife,  Mary,  have 
bought  a  house  in  Santa  Clara,  Calif.  Salomaki  is 
a  development  engineer  for  Hewlett- Packard/ 
Dana  Systems  Division,  where  he  is  designing 
the  next  generation  computer.  He  also  teaches  a 
course  at  San  Jose  State  University. .  .  .  Charles 
Shillito  and  his  wife,  Lois,  live  in  Shrub  Oak,  N.Y. 
Shillito  is  with  Malcolm  Pirnie,  Inc.,  White  Plains. 
.  .  .  Robert  Sooy  works  as  an  R&D  project  en- 
gineer at  Emhart  Corp.,  Dyna-Pert  Division, 
Beverly,  Mass.  .  .  .  Michael  Sundberg  is  pres- 
ently a  lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Navy  with  the  Naval 
Administrative  Command  in  Great  Lakes,  III. .  .  . 
David  Williams  serves  as  an  associate  transpor- 
tation planner  at  Northern  Middlesex  Area 
Commission,  Lowell,  Mass.  His  wife,  Gretchen, 
is  also  a  planner,  and  will  soon  start  work  at  the 
regional  planning  agency  in  Boston.  Williams  has 
a  master's  degree  in  urban  planning  from  the 
University  of  Wisconsin. 


1976 


Secretary: 

Paula  E.  Stratouly 

1804  Windsor  Ridge  Dr 

Westboro.  MA 

01581 


REUNION 

OCTOBER  1 98 1 

Representative: 
Richard  P.  Predella,  Jr 
493  Page  St. 
Lunenburg,  MA 
01462 


^■Married:  Patrick  J.  Murphy  and  Janet  E.  Mil- 
lerd  in  Willimantic,  Connecticut  on  June  28, 
1980.  The  bride  has  an  intermediate  education 
degree  from  Eastern  Connecticut  State  College 
and  is  taking  graduate  courses  in  mathematics  at 
the  University  of  Houston.  She  is  a  fifth  grade 
teacher.  The  bridegroom  works  for  Ebasco  Ser- 
vices, Houston. .  .  .  Donald  P.  Nardi  to  Katherine 
A.  Evans  in  East  Longmeadow,  Massachusetts 
on  June  7, 1980.  Mrs.  Nardi  graduated  from 
Springfield  Technical  Community  College,  and  is 
an  administrative  assistant  at  Greater  Springfield 
Chamber  of  Commerce.  Her  husband,  a  techni- 
cian at  Monsanto  Co.,  attends  Western  New 
England  College. .  .  .  Richard  P.  Predella,  Jr.  and 
Margaret  M.  Lantaigneon  May  31, 1980  in  East 
Longmeadow,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Predella 
graduated  from  North  Adams  State  College.  She 
is  a  claims  adjuster  at  Commercial  Assurance 
Company  in  Peabody,  Mass.  The  groom  is  with 
New  England  Telephone  and  Telegraph  in  Fitch- 
burg,  Mass. 


^Married:  Robert  W.  Sengstaken  and  Teresa 
A.  Clark  in  Keene,  New  Hampshire  on  June  21 , 
1980.  Mrs.  Sengstaken  graduated  from  Keene 
State  College  and  New  Hampshire  Vocational 
Technical  College.  Her  husband  works  for  Mar- 
kern  Corporation. .    .  Robert  G.  Valentine,  Jr. 
and  Caterina  L.  Sciannameo  on  May  3,  1980  in 
Worcester.  Mrs.  Valentine  is  a  graduate  of  the 
Memorial  Hospital  School  of  Nursing.  She  is  a 
nurse  at  St.  Vincent  Hospital.  The  groom  serves 
as  a  systems  analyst  at  St.  Vincent.  .  .  .  John  A. 
Watters,  Jr.  and  Patricia  A.  Baker  on  March  29, 
1980  in  Millbury,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Watters 
graduated  from  North  High  School,  Worcester, 
and  is  employed  by  Cottage  Tailor,  Inc.,  Worces- 
ter. Her  husband  is  with  John  Hancock  Mutual 
Life  Insurance  Co. 

Mark  Allyn  is  now  in  San  Diego  working  for 
the  U.S.  Navy's  Naval  Electronic  Systems 
Engineering  Center.  He  is  responsible  for  the 
installation  of  high  power  radio  transmitters. .  .  . 
Scott  Bamford  serves  as  a  geotechnical  engineer 
at  Woodward-Clyde  Consult,  in  Houston, 
Texas.  He  has  received  his  MS  in  ocean  engineer- 
ing from  URI.  .  .  .  Val  Danos  works  for  East  Bay 
Municipal  Utilities  District.  .  .  .  Wayne  Dyer  is  a 
programmer  at  Computervision  in  Burlington, 
Mass. ...  In  May,  James  Farina  received  his  PhD 
in  physics  from  Drexel  University.  He  is  a  visiting 
assistant  professor  in  the  physics  department  at 
Drexel  in  Philadelphia.  .  .  .  Wesley  Gilbert  and 
his  bride,  Nancy,  who  were  married  on  May 
31st,  have  just  moved  into  a  "new-old"  home  in 
Broad  Brook,  Conn.  Gilbert  serves  as  chief  en- 
gineer at  Frame-Up  Engineering  Co.  in  Enfield. 
.  .  .  Jonathan  Hatch  holds  the  post  of  process 
control  engineer  at  PPG  Industries,  Pittsburgh, 
Pa. .  .  .  Barry  Heitner  is  employed  as  a  process 
engineer  at  du  Pont  in  Orange,  Texas. 

Presently,  Walter  Hoehn  is  with  SE  Data  Pro- 
cessing Co.,  Miami,  Fla. .  .  .  Elizabeth  Papandrea 
Lariviere  is  now  in  product  line  planning  and 
management  for  microwave  radio  at  Western 
Electric  in  North  Andover,  Mass.  .  .  .  Robert 
Lemer  serves  as  an  office  automation  consultant 
at  Wang  Labs,  Lowell,  Mass.  He  holds  an  MBA 
from  the  University  of  Rochester. .  .  .  Tom  McA- 
loon  is  employed  as  a  sanitary  engineer  at  New 
Hampshire  Water  Supply  &  Pollution  Control 
Commission  in  Concord.  .  .  .  William  McGee 
works  as  a  design  engineer  at  Applicon,  Inc.,  in 
Burlington,  Mass.  .  .  .  James  Petrillo  is  a  senior 
process  engineer  at  B.F.  Goodrich  Chemical  Co., 
Pedricktown,  N.J. .  .  .  Craig  Plourde  was  elected 
assistant  treasurer  of  the  technical  support  de- 
partment at  Connecticut  Bank  and  Trust  Co., 
Hartford,  Conn.  He  joined  the  bank  in  1976  as  a 
programmer  and  was  promoted  to  senior  sys- 
tems engineer  two  years  ago. 

Steven  Silva  holds  the  position  of  microcom- 
puter development  specialist  at  Tektronix,  North 
Syracuse,  N.Y.  .  .  .  John  Smith,  a  PhD  candidate 
at  SUNY  in  Buffalo,  works  as  a  research  assistant 
at  Health  Research,  Inc.,  Roswell  Park  Memorial 
Institute..  .    Arthur  Stryer  has  received  his  MBA 
from  Northeastern.  He  serves  as  a  senior  design 
engineer  at  Data  General,  Westboro,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Jeff  Triwedi  continues  as  a  sales  engineer  at  GE 
in  Oakbrook,  III.  .  .  .  Donald  Weymouth  is  man- 
ager of  manufacturing  systems  at  Wright  Line, 
Inc.,  Worcester. 


1977 


Secretary 
Kathleen  Molony 
6  Aiken  St. 
Norwalk,  CT 
06851 


Representative: 
Christopher  D  Baker 
1 1  Boston  St. 
Lawrence.  MA 
01841 


^■Married:  Glenn  R.  Andrews  to  Jeanne  A. 
McKenna  on  August  2,  1980  in  Stamford,  Coq- 
necticut.  Mrs.  Andrews,  a  computer  pro- 
grammer at  Travelers  Insurance,  Hartford, 
graduated  from  Fairfield  University.  Her  hus- 
band is  also  a  computer  programmer  at  Travel- 
ers. .  .  .  Robert  E.  Bowser  and  Miss  Donna 
Lindsay  of  North  Brookfield,  Massachusetts  on 
June  14,  I980.  The  bride  graduated  from  Anna 
Maria  in  1978  and  from  Columbia  University 
School  of  Nursing  in  1980.  She  is  employed  at 
the  Children's  Hospital  National  Medical  Center, 
Washington,  D.C.  The  groom  is  with  the  Naval 
Sea  Systems  Command  in  Washington. .  .  . 
Brian  D.  Buckley  and  Kristina  T.  Perry  on  Sep- 
tember 13,  1980  in  Worcester.  The  bride  was 
formerly  a  civil  engineer  in  the  Department  of 
Public  Works,  Holden,  Mass.  Her  husband  is  a 
nuclear  engineer  at  Portsmouth  Naval  Shipyard 
in  Kittery,  Me.  After  a  trip  to  Ireland,  the  couple 
is  residing  in  Kittery  Point. .  .  .  James  A.  Buffi  and 
Deborah  R.  Buccion  August9, 1980  in  Johnston, 
Rhode  Island.  Mrs.  Buffi,  who  attends  the  Uni- 
versity of  Bridgeport  Law  School,  graduated 
from  URI.  Her  husband  works  as  a  project 
engineer-estimator  for  Dimeo  Construction 
Company,  and  he  is  completing  his  MBA  at 
Bryant  College.  .  .  .  Don  L.  Drinkwaterand 
Barbara  A.  Morrison  on  July  13,  1980  in  West 
Warren,  Massachusetts.  The  bride  is  a  Becker 
graduate.  Currently,  she  is  in  the  nursing  pro- 
gram at  Boston  State  College.  Her  husband  is 
employed  at  Digital  in  Tewksbury. 

^■Married:  George  L.  Keeler  and  Frances  L. 
Link  in  Pittsfield,  Massachusetts  on  August  2, 
1980.  Mrs.  Keeler  graduated  from  Fitchburg 
State  College  School  of  Nursing  and  is  a  nurse  at 
Berkshire  Medical  Center.  The  bridegroom  is  a 
design  engineer  for  GE  Ordnance  Systems.  He 
received  his  master's  degree  from  RPI  this  year. 
.  .  .  Thomas  W.  Kintz  and  Anita  Duchesneau  in 
Norway,  Maine  on  May  17,  1980.  Mrs.  Kintz 
graduated  from  Becker.  Her  husband  is  presently 
employed  by  Connecticut  Light  and  Power. .  .  . 
Brian  D.  Kisiel  and  Donna  M.  Oppici  in  West 
Boylston,  Massachusetts  on  May  17, 1980.  Mrs. 
Kisiel,  a  counselor  for  the  Nashua  (N.H.)  Youth 
Council,  graduated  from  Framingham  State  Col- 
lege. Her  husband  is  a  sales  engineer  for  Betz 
Laboratories. 

^■Married:  Gary  A.  Loeb  and  Leslie  G.  Levine 
in  Albany,  New  York  on  May  11, 1980.  The  bride 
graduated  from  Hudson  Valley  Community  Col- 
lege and  Russell  Sage.  She  is  a  probation  officer 
for  Albany  County.  The  bridgroom  serves  as 
assistant  to  the  superintendent  of  the  Niagara 
Mohawk  Albany  Steam  Station.  .  .  .  Mark  O. 
Puputti  and  Brenda  A.  Boucher,  '80  in  Chicopee, 
Massachusetts  on  July  12,  1980.  Mrs.  Puputti  is 
a  process  engineer  at  GTE  Laboratories  in 
Waltham,  Mass.  Her  husband  is  a  production 
engineer  at  Polaroid  Corp.,  Waltham. .  .  .Steven 
E.  Sweeney  and  Monica  A.  Murphy  in  Albany, 
New  York  on  May  31,1 980.  The  bride 
graduated  as  a  nurse  from  Maria  College.  The 
bridegroom  is  with  the  New  York  State  Depart- 
ment of  Transportation.  .  .  .  Joseph  C.  Williams 
and  Margaret  George  on  May  25,  1980  in 
Auburn,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Williams,  an  Anna 


26  /  Fall  1 980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


ibivii'iii 


Maria  graduate,  is  a  social  worker  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Massachusetts  Medical  Center,  Worces- 
ter. Her  husband  serves  as  a  manufacturing 
engineer  in  the  Vitrified  Grinding  Wheel  Division 
at  Norton  Company. 

Raad  Al-Awqati  works  as  a  special  service 
representative  for  M.  A.  Al-Bahar  in  Kuwait.  .  .  . 
Christopher  "Bake"  Baker  is  now  an  assistant 
engineer  at  Edwards  &  Kelcey  in  Boston. .  .  . 
Michael  Bloom  holds  a  new  post  as  senior 
systems  programmer-performance  analyst  at  In- 
teractive Data  Corp.,  Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  .  Bruce 
Baran  is  working  for  his  doctorate  in  physics  at 
Northeastern.  .  .  .  Stephen  Coleman  continues 
as  an  actuarial  associate  at  State  Mutual  in 
Worcester.  .  .  .  Paul  Craffey  has  received  his  MS 
in  chemical  engineering  from  UMass.  He  now 
works  for  Owens  Corning  in  Grandville,  Ohio. 
.  .  .  Bill  Cunningham  was  recently  awarded  a 
fellowship  in  the  two-year  MBA  program  at  Tuck 
School  at  Dartmouth.  Says  Bill,  "I'll  be  majoring 
in  marketing,  finance,  and  skiing."  Data  General 
has  given  Bill  a  leave  of  absence  for  his  graduate 
study.  Last  summer,  the  company  sent  him  to 
Germany  for  a  week  to  set  up  a  training  pro- 
gram. .  .  .  Scott  Davidson  is  a  senior  software 
engineer  at  DEC  in  Maynard,  Mass. 

David  Drzyzgula  holds  the  post  of  manager  of 
Agway,  Inc.,  in  Rutland,  Vt.  .  .  .  Apostolos 
Economou  works  for  Sole  Ltd.  Solar  Domestic 
Appliance  Industry,  Athens,  Greece.  .  .  .  Jim 
Gado  is  a  first-year  student  at  Suffolk  Law 
School.  .  .  .  Gary  Helmstetter  is  a  systems  de- 
signer at  Software  House  in  Cambridge,  Mass. 
.  .  .  Last  summer,  to  maintain  his  crewing  ability, 
Eric  Hertz  attended  rowing  camp  in  Craftsbury, 
Vt.  .  .  .  Jim  Lunney  has  been  transferred  by  GE's 
International  Division  to  Scotland,  where  he  is 
concerned  with  navigational  computer  projects. 
The  18-month  stint  was  "conveniently"  ar- 
ranged so  that  Jim  can  take  in  two  Oktoberfests 
in  Germany.  .  .  .  Kim  Mohanty  is  a  physics 
associate  at  Brookhaven  National  Labs,  Upton, 
N.Y. .  .  .  Kathy  Molony  has  been  promoted  from 
product  district  supervisor  to  new  products 
coordinator  at  Clairol  in  Stamford,  Conn.  .  .  . 
Christopher  Morosas  is  employed  as  a  product 
development  engineer  at  CIT  Cryogenics  in 
Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  .  Jeffrey  Peterson  works  for 
United  Technologies  in  Hartford,  Conn. .  .  . 
Scott  Saftler  holds  the  position  of  product  con- 
sultant at  National  CSS  in  Wilton,  Conn. 

Igor  Shulyak  continues  as  a  process  engineer 
at  Norton's  in  Worcester.  .  .  .  Donald  Statile 
serves  as  associate  engineer  at  Yankee  Atomic 
Electric  Company,  Westboro,  Mass.  He  has  a 
master's  degree  from  RPI. .  .  .  Last  Year,  Gregory 
Tietbohl  received  his  master's  degree  from  the 
University  of  Delaware,  then  worked  for  a  time 
as  a  thermal  systems  engineer  at  General  Electric 
in  Lynn.  Presently,  he  is  an  R  &  D  engineer  for 
Riley  Stoker  in  Worcester. 


1978 


Secretary 
Cynthia  Grynick 
303  Wolcott  St. 
Waterbury,  CT 
06705 

^■Married:  Ralph  S.  Chapman  and  Vida  Yazdi  of 
Hempstead,  L.I.,  New  York  on  May  31,  1980. 
The  bride  graduated  from  New  York  Institute  of 
Technology  with  a  BS  in  interior  design.  Her 
husband  serves  as  a  systems  programmer  in  the 
advanced  technology  department  of  National 
CSS,  Inc.,  Wilton,  Conn.  .  .    Jeffrey  M.  Fraulino 
and  Faith  E.  Kachinsky  in  Middletown,  Connec- 
ticut on  June  28,  1980.  The  bride,  a  student  at 
Middlesex  Community  College,  works  at  Liberty 
Bank  for  Savings.  The  bridegroom  attends 
Hartford  Graduate  Center.  He  works  for  Macchi 
Engineers.  .  .  .  Linda  E.  Lammi  and  Emmanuel 
Papanicholas  in  Topsfield,  Massachusetts.  Mrs. 
Papanicholas  has  a  BS  from  Northeastern  and  an 
MS  from  WPI.  Her  husband,  a  graduate  of 
Suffolk  University,  is  with  Atlantic  Tracy,  Inc.,  of 
Beverly,  Mass.  .  .  .  Robert  Lundin  and  Joan 
Gribouski  on  April  19,  1980  in  Worcester.  The 
bride  graduated  from  Quinsigamond  Commu- 
nity College  and  is  employed  at  UMass  Medical 
School.  The  groom  is  a  student  at  Tufts  Univer- 
sity School  of  Dentistry. .    .  Richard  McNamara 
and  Mary  G.  Snyder  on  June  8, 1980  in  Belmont, 
Massachusetts.  Mrs.  McNamara,  a  Westfield 
State  College  graduate,  is  a  social  worker  for 
West  Suburban  Elderly  Services,  Waltham, 
Mass.  Her  husband  works  for  Turner  Construc- 
tion, Boston  .  .  .  David  J.  Thibodeau,  Jr.  and 
MaryJ.  O'Donnellon  June21, 1980  in  Warwick, 
Rhode  Island.  The  bride  is  a  magna  cum  laude 
graduate  of  Anna  Maria  College  and  a  substitute 
teacher  in  Warwick.  The  bridegroom  is  em- 
ployed by  Sanders  Associates,  Nashua,  N.H. .  .  . 
William  H.  Walton  and  Patricia  A.  Tracy  in 
Worcester  on  May  31 ,  1980.  Mrs.  Walton  is  a 
fire  protection  engineer  with  the  Kemper  Group 
in  North  Quincy,  Mass.  Her  husband  serves  as  a 
geotechnical  engineer  at  Chas.  T.  Main,  Inc., 
Boston..  .  .  Charles  S.  Winters  and  Ann  M.  Prew 
in  Pawtucket,  Rhode  Island  on  August  9, 1980. 
The  bride  graduated  from  LaSalle  College  and 
attends  graduate  school  at  Catholic  University. 
The  groom  is  with  Electrack,  Inc.,  Hyattsville, 
Md. 

Currently,  Bernice  Albetski  is  a  programmer- 
analyst  at  American  Company  in  Greenwich, 
Conn. .  .  .  Navy  Ensign  Bramwell  Arnold,  Jr.  has 
reported  for  duty  with  Attack  Squadron  122, 
Naval  Air  Station,  Lemoore,  Calif.  He  joined  the 
Navy  in  June  of  1978.  .  .  .  Carl  Blomberg  is  now 
employed  at  Henley  Lundgren  in  Shrewsbury, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Robert  Brosnahan  works  as  a  project 
engineer  at  Richards  Manufacturing  Corp., 
Memphis,  Tenn.  He  recently  received  his  mas- 
ter's degree  in  bioengineering  from  Clemson 
University. .  .  .  Gary  Davis  is  a  senior  systems 
analyst  for  Dialcom,  Inc.,  of  Silver  Spring,  Md. 
.  .  .  Stephen  Dudzik  is  with  Vitro  Laboratories, 
Silver  Spring,  Md.  .  .  .  This  year,  Richard  Dziura 
received  his  MSEE  from  WPI.  He  works  as  a 
development  engineer  for  GE's  Lighting  Systems 
Division  in  Hendersonville,  N.C. .  .  .  Paul  Gifford 
serves  as  an  estimator  at  Daniel  Construction 
Co.,  Greenville,  S.C.  .  .  .  Robert  Grochmal  is 
studying  for  his  MSEE  at  RPI .  He  continues  as  an 
Edison  engineer  at  GE  in  Pittsfield,  Mass. 


Paul  Gudelski  works  as  a  highway  engineer  II 
in  the  Bureau  of  Construction  Inspection  for  the 
State  Highway  Administration,  Salisbury,  Md. 
The  Gudelskis  have  two  children.  .  .  .  John  Han- 
non,  an  engineer  with  du  Pont,  was  transferred 
to  Martinsville,  Va.  in  March.  He  and  his  bride, 
Kathy,  reside  in  Collinsville.  They  were  married  in 
May.  .  .  .  Erik  Hedberg,  presently  as  MS  student 
at  the  University  of  Miami,  will  enter  Duke 
University  in  December  to  study  for  his  PhD. .  .  . 
Ruth  Anne  Heselbarth  is  a  staff  accountant  with 
Peat,  Marwick,  Mitchell  &  Co. ,  a  public  account- 
ing firm  in  Boston.  She  passed  the  CPA  exam  in 
May.  She  has  an  MS  in  accounting  from  North- 
eastern University  and  is  taking  night  classes  for 
her  MS  in  taxation  at  Bentley  College.  ...  In 
January,  Peter  Hunt  was  promoted  to  first 
lieutenant  in  the  USAF.  He  serves  as  a  mechan- 
ical systems  engineer  for  the  Titan  IllatVanden- 
berg  AFB,  Calif. .  .  .  Leonard  Lariviere  is  involved 
with  microwave  tower  design  at  Western  Elec- 
tric, North  Andover,  Mass.  .  .  .  Kevin  O'Donnell 
continues  as  a  graduate  student  at  the  Institute 
of  Optics  at  the  University  of  Rochester. .  .  .  Rory 
O'Connor  is  now  software  editor  for  Computer 
Business  News. 

Michael  O'Hara  holds  the  post  of  project 
engineer  at  3M  Company  in  St.  Paul,  Minn. .  .  . 
Ernest  Poulias  is  employed  as  a  manufacturing 
engineer  at  Combustion  Engineering,  Ware- 
house Pt,  Conn.  .  .  .  Bruce  Rutsch  is  a  senior 
engineer  at  Sweda  International  in  Pinebrook, 
N.J. .  .  .  Allan  Schweber  serves  as  division 
equipment  coordinator  at  the  Southland  Corpo- 
ration in  Alexandria,  Va. .  .  .  Forrest  Titcomb  has 
received  an  MS  degree  from  MIT.  He  belongs  to 
Pi  Tau  Sigma.  .  .  .  Craig  Vickery  holds  the  posi- 
tion of  engineering  technical  writer  at  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft,  East  Hartford,  Conn.  He  is  also 
enrolled  in  the  MSME  program  at  RPI's  Hartford 
Graduate  Center. .  .    John  Wallace,  who  has  an 
MS  from  Carnegie-Mellon,  serves  as  a  member 
of  the  technical  staff  at  Bell  Labs,  Naperville,  III. 
.  .  .  Wesley  Wheeler,  a  project  engineer  with 
Exxon  Research/Engineering  Co.,  Florham  Park, 
N.J. ,  is  currently  on  assignment  to  Esso  Engineer- 
ing (Europe)  Ltd.  in  Surrey,  England. .  .  . 
Raimond  Winslow  continues  at  Johns-Hopkins 
School  of  Medicine  in  the  department  of 
biomedical  engineering.  He  is  working  on  his 
doctoral  degree  in  biomedical  engineering. 


1979 


Secretary 
James  Manchester 
625  Main  St 
Reading,  MA 
01867 


Representative: 
Donald  O.  Patten,  Jr. 
27  French  St. 
Hingham,  MA 
02043 


^■Married:  Andre  G.  Labrecque  and  Cheryl  A. 
Vaughan  in  Worcester  on  June  28, 1980.  The 
bride,  an  executive  medical  secretary,  graduated 
from  Salter  Secretarial  School.  Her  husband  is  in 
production  management  at  Armstrong  Cork 
Co.,  Lancaster,  Pa. .  .  .  David  J.  Lodigiani  and 
Doreen  P.  Schultz  on  September  13,  1980.  Mrs. 
Lodigiani  is  a  Becker  graduate,  and  works  at 
Fitchburg  State  College  as  a  medical  assistant. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Fall  1980/27 


.  .  .  Donald  H.  Mitchell  to  Rosemary  L.  Oshana 
on  August  9,  1980  in  New  Britain,  Connecticut. 
Mrs.  Mitchell  graduated  from  Becker  and  has 
been  employed  at  Farmington  Convalescent 
Home  and  Rest  Home.  Her  husband  works  for 
Public  Service  Co.  of  New  Hampshire  at  Man- 
chester. .  .  .  Robert  P.  Reed  to  Suzanne  M. 
Lavoie  in  Auburn,  Massachusetts  on  April  19, 
1 980.  The  bride  graduated  from  Salter  Secreta- 
rial School.  She  is  with  the  physiology  depart- 
ment of  the  University  of  Massachusetts  Medical 
School  in  Worcester.  The  bridegroom  is  a  prod- 
uct engineeratWyman-Gordon,  North  Grafton. 
.  .  .  John  P.  Sasonoff  and  Kathleen  M.  Cooney  in 
Billerica,  Massachusetts  on  May  10,  1980.  An 
alumna  of  Boston  College  School  of  Nursing, 
Mrs.  Sasonoff  is  now  employed  in  the  Tempo 
program  at  Massachusetts  Hospital  School  in 
Canton.  Her  husband  has  a  BSEE  from  Manhat- 
tan College  and  an  MSEE  from  WPI.  He  is  a 
senior  engineer  with  Raytheon  in  Wayland. .  .  . 
David  J.  Sheridan  and  Joyce  A.  Poulton  on  May 
31 ,  1980  in  Westport,  Massachusetts.  The  bride 
is  a  mathematician.  The  groom  is  a  second 
lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Army.  Presently,  the 
couple  is  living  in  Vincenza,  Italy. .  .  .  Felix  E. 
Vargas  and  Maura  C.  Scanlon  on  April  12,  1980 
in  Jefferson,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Vargas  works 
at  Kelly  Health  Care,  Worcester.  She  is  a  senior  at 
Worcester  State.  The  bridegroom  is  employed 
by  Chu  Associates  in  Littleton. 

John  Auger  works  as  a  facilities  engineer  at 
Parker  Hannifin  Corp.,  Ravenna,  Ohio.  .    .  Jeff 
Boike  works  for  U.O.P.  in  Chicago.  .  .  .  Paul 
Capstick  graduated  from  West  Point  in  May. .  .  . 
Stephen  DiPietro  is  studying  for  his  master's  in 
nuclear  engineering  at  MIT.  .  .  .  Ronald  Drew- 
iany  continues  with  General  Dynamics-Electric 
Boat  in  Groton,  Conn.  .  .  .  David  Erickson  is  an 
applications  engineer  in  the  Process  Instrument 
Division  at  Panametrics,  Waltham,  Mass. .  .  . 
Andrew  Faiss  serves  an  an  associate  structural 
engineer  for  General  Dynamics-Electric  Boat, 
Groton,  Conn.  Faiss  had  a  five-year  double 
major:  ocean  engineering  and  management  en- 
gineering. He  has  completed  his  management 
engineering  program  and  finished  everything 
but  his  MQP  in  ocean  engineering,  and  plans  to 
complete  the  latter  this  fall.  Faiss's  was  the  first 
interdisciplinary  ocean  engineering  program  at 
WPI. .  .  .  Michael  Falcinelli  is  employed  as  a 
system  engineer  at  Hewlett-Packard  in 
Lexington,  Mass.  .  .  .  David  Gehly  works  as  a 
process  engineer  at  ITT  Semiconductor  in  Law- 
rence, Mass. 

John  Hopkins,  Jr.  holds  the  position  of  vice 
president  at  the  Alger  Corp.,  Abington,  Mass. 
.  .  .  Presently,  Stephen  Hull  is  a  research  fellow 
at  Michigan  State  University  in  East  Lansing. .  .  . 
In  June,  Bruce  Jenket  completed  nuclear  power 
school  in  Orlando  and  is  now  applying  his 
knowledge  at  Knolls  Atomic  Lab.  in  West  Milton, 
N.Y.  A  Navy  ensign,  he  expects  to  go  to  sub 
school  in  New  London,  Conn.,  early  next  year. 
.  .  .  Steven  Kanevski  has  been  commissioned  a 
second  lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force  upon 
graduating  from  Officer  Training  School  at  Lack- 
land AFB  near  San  Antonio,  Texas.  He  was 
selected  for  the  school  through  competitive 
examination  and  will  now  go  to  Mather  AFB, 
Calif,  fortraining. .  .  .  Raytheon  Equipment  Divi- 
sion, Waltham,  Mass.  has  employed  Robert 
Manninen  as  associate  test  engineer. 


Michael  McDonald  is  an  inspecting  field  en- 
gineer at  Industrial  Risk  Insurers  in  Wellesley, 
Mass..  .  .  James  Michaud  continues  as  a  techni- 
cal representative  for  the  Kemper  Group  in 
North  Haven,  Conn. .  .  .  Gary  Pietryk  works  as  a 
fuel  systems  engineer  at  Combustion  Engineer- 
ing in  Windsor,  Conn.  .  .    Mark  Pittenger  is  a 
junior  research  specialist  in  the  department  of 
biochemistry  and  biophysics  at  the  University  of 
Pennsylvania  Medical  School.  .    .  Stephen 
Prawdzik  serves  as  a  sales  specialist  in  the  light- 
ing system  department  at  GE  in  Hendersonville, 
NC. .  .  .  Robert  Rosenlof  continues  with  General 
Dyanmics,  Groton,  Conn.  .  .  .  Richard  Ruscito 
has  accepted  a  position  as  process  supervisor  for 
W.  R.  Grace,  Davison  Chemical  Division,  Balti- 
more, Md. 

Biraja  Sahu  works  as  a  design  engineer  at 
United  Tech  Corp.,  Hamilton  Standard 
Division,  in  Windsor  Locks,  Conn. .  .  .  Richard 
Sewersky  has  been  named  an  industrial  engineer 
at  Jamesbury  Corp.,  Worcester.  .  .  .John 
Skliutas,  who  has  received  his  master's  degree 
from  RPI,  is  now  an  application  engineer  for  the 
AC  transmission  studies  group  of  the  Electric 
Utility  Systems  Engineering  Department  at  GE  in 
Schenectady. .  .  .  Anthony  Weiner  works  as  a 
field  service  engineer  for  the  Surface  Division  of 
Midland  Ross  in  Toledo,  Ohio. 


I980 


^■Married:  Curtis  T.  Dudley  and  Annette  Bachand 
in  Williamstown,  Massachusetts  on  July  26, 1980. 
The  bride  attended  North  Adams  State  College. 
Her  husband  is  employed  as  an  electrical  engineer 
at  New  England  Telephone  in  Framingham.  .  .  . 
Scott  M.  Harvey  and  Linda  J.  Carroll  in  Barrington, 
Rhode  Island  on  June  1 5,  1 980.  Mrs.  Harvey  is  a 
senior  at  Holy  Cross.  The  groom  serves  as  a 
product  engineer  at  Data  General.  .  .  .  Lisa  A. 
Krauss  and  Paul  W.  Del  Campo  Hartman  on  June 
14,  1980  in  Bristol,  Rhode  Island.  The  bride  is  a 
process  development  engineer  with  Procter  and 
Gamble  in  Cincinnati,  Ohio.  Her  husband  is  a 
graduate  of  Roger  Williams  College.  .  .  .  Donald 
W.  May  to  Kathy  A.  Seaver  of  Franklin,  Mas- 
sachusetts on  June  14, 1980.  Mrs.  May  graduated 
from  Framingham  Union  Hospital  School  of  Nurs- 
ing. The  bridegroom  is  a  junior  engineer  for 
Raymond  International,  Inc. .  .  .  John  W.  Moriarty 
and  Carol  J.  Evon  in  Waterbury,  Connecticut  on 
July  26,  1980.  The  bride  holds  a  degree  is  criminal 
justice  from  the  University  of  Connecticut.  Her 
husband  is  with  du  Pont  in  Victoria,  Texas. .  .  . 
John  E.Sjostedt  and  Judith  W.  Gemma  in  Clinton, 
Massachusetts  on  June  7,  1980.  The  bride,  a 
graduate  of  Quinsigamond  Community  College 
and  Assumption,  is  community  relations  manager 
at  Van  Brode  Milling  Co.,  Inc.  The  groom  is  with 
the  Washington  Works  Division  of  du  Pont  in 
Parkersburg,  West  Virginia. .  .  .  Henry  A.  Spang  IV 
and  Linda  S.  Landry  in  Ocean  Point,  Maine  on 
June  14, 1980.  The  bride  works  at  Vought  Aircraft 
Co.  and  the  groom  at  Texas  Instruments  in  Dallas, 
Texas.  .  .  .  Thomas  A.  Storey  and  Patricia  A.  Lowe 
of  Worcester  on  June  28,  1 980.  The  bridegroom 
serves  as  a  fire  protection  engineer  at  Goodyear 
Atomic  Corp.,  Piketon,  Ohio. .  .  .  Francis  J.  Walsh, 
Jr.  and  Barbara  J.  Granneman  on  April  12,  1980  in 
Garden  City,  New  York.  Mrs.  Walsh  graduated 
from  Elmira  College.  Her  husband,  who  also 
graduated  from  Elmira,  is  employed  as  a  chemical 
engineer  at  W.R.  Grace  &  Co.,  Lexington,  Mass. 


*Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ulrich  Steiner  a  daugh- 
ter, Marisa  Barbara,  on  January  9,  1980.  Steiner  is 
with  Emch  &  Berger,  Consulting  Engineers,  in 
Bern,  Switzerland. 

Jeffrey  Andrade  has  accepted  a  post  as  design 
engineer  at  Raytheon,  Inc.,  Wayland,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Allison  Avery  is  with  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston. .  .  . 
Verne  Backus  serves  as  a  trainee  in  the  Silicones 
Division  at  GE  in  Waterford,  N.Y.  .  .  .  Exxon 
Research  &  Engineering  in  Florham  Park,  N.J.  has 
employed  James  Barker  as  an  engineer  in  syn- 
thetic fuels  process  development.  .  .  .  Jay  Bel- 
lingham  is  an  associate  engineer  with  Potomac 
Electric  Power  Co.,  Washington,  D.C.  .  .  .  Kath- 
leen Berthelette  is  a  management  trainee  at  New 
England  Telephone  Co.,  Providence,  R.I. .  .  . 
Robert  Blake  has  joined  United  Illuminating  in 
New  Haven,  Conn.  He  is  a  member  of  the  ASME. 
.  .  .  Eastman  Kodak  of  Rochester,  N.Y.  has  named 
David  Boger  as  a  research  scientist. .  .  .  Michael 
Bowen  works  as  a  construction  coordination  en- 
gineerforCamp  Dresser  &McKee,  Inc. — Alexan- 
der Potter  Associates  in  New  York  City. 

Douglas  Brand  is  with  the  Torrington  Co.  in 
Connecticut. .  .  .  Philip  Bryan  was  recently  named 
a  design  engineer  at  Kodak  in  Rochester,  N.Y. .  .  . 
Stone  &  Webster,  Boston,  has  employed  Candace 
Buckley  as  a  junior  engineer. .  .    Daniel  Buckley  is 
a  software  engineer  II  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp., 
Marlboro,  Mass.  .  .  .  Sharon  Buckley  has  joined 
the  manufacturing  management  program  at  GE  in 
Schenectady,  N.Y. .  .  .  Robert  Burghoff  is  a  tissue  ! 
culturist  in  the  life  sciences  department  at  WPI. .  . 
Michael  Caputo  has  entered  the  University  of 
Massachusetts  Medical  School.  .  .  .  Daniel  Casey 
is  now  a  development  engineer  at  Monsanto 
Research  Corp.,  Miamisburg,  Ohio. .  .  .  Michael 
Cheamitru  is  with  the  David  W.  Taylor  Naval  Ship 
Research  and  Development  Center,  Bethesda, 
Md.  He  serves  as  a  structural  engineer. .  .  . 
Gretchen  Chipperini  has  been  named  a  design 
engineer  at  United  Nuclear,  Montville,  Conn.  .  .  . 
Edward  Chojin  is  a  manufacturing  engineer  at 
Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Natick,  Mass. 

David  Clarke  serves  as  a  field  service  engineer 
for  the  Foxboro  Co.  .  .  .  Richard  Collins  is  an 
associate  engineer  in  the  AEP  Program  at  Hon- 
eywell in  Billerica,  Mass.  .  .  .  Peter  Connolly  works 
as  a  teaching  assistant  at  the  University  of  Califor- 
nia at  Berkeley. .  .  .  Christopher  Cook  is  employed 
in  the  technical  sales  and  marketing  division  at 
Westinghouse  in  New  York  City.  .  .  .  David 
Craigue  works  as  an  associate  design  engineer  at 
Hamilton  Standard,  Windsor  Locks,  Conn. .  .  . 
Megatest  Corp. ,  Santa  Clara,  Calif.,  has  employed 
Raymond  Cronin  as  an  applications  engineer. .  . . 
John  Cybulski  has  accepted  a  position  in  the 
manufacturing  management  program  at  GE  in 
Schenectady.  .  .  .  Tom  Daniels  serves  as  a  safety 
analyst  in  the  Nuclear  Power  Generation  Division 
at  Babcock  and  Wilcox  Co.,  Lynchburg,  Va.  He 
belongs  to  the  ASME  and  the  American  Nuclear 
Society.  .  .  .  Michael  Davenport  is  an  assistant 
engineer  at  Northeast  Utilities  in  Hartford,  Conn. 
.  .  .  Thomas  De  Bellis  holds  the  post  of  systems 
programmer  at  Columbia  University,  New  York 
City..  .  .  James  DeCarlo  is  employed  by  New  York 
Telephone  Co.  in  New  York  City.  .  .  .  John  Dehais 
has  joined  Hamilton  Standard  in  Windsor  Locks, 
Conn.  He  is  an  associate  engineer  in  the  Environ- 
mental Control  Systems  Department. 


28  /  Fall  1980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


I  >  W »  «' '  ■  HWIWII'I  ■  ■»■■  1  w  1 


Duane  Delfosse  is  a  member  of  the  engineering 
training  program  (Edison)  at  GE  in  San  Jose,  Calif. 
.  .  .  Mark  DiLuglio  now  works  for  John  M.  Geisser 
Co.,  Greenville,  R.I.  .  .  .  James  Drumm  is  with 
Badger  America,  Inc.  in  Tampa,  Fla.  .  .  .  Oliver 
Edwards  is  employed  at  Exxon  Chemical  Com- 
pany, Florham  Park,  N.J.  .  .  .  Eric  Engberg  is  a 
software  instructor  at  Data  General,  Southboro, 
Mass.  .  .    Perry  Esposito  has  joined  the  marketing 
support  group  at  Bailey  Controls  Company  in 
Denver,  Colo.  The  firm  isa  division  of  Babcock  and 
Wilcox.  .  .  .  Paul  Farineau  serves  as  a  second 
lieutenant  in  the  Army  Chemical  Corps. .  .    James 
Feenan,  Jr.  holds  the  post  of  project  coordinator  at 
Coppus  Engineering,  Worcester.  .  .  .  Margaret 
Fernald  works  for  Teledyne  Engineering  Services 
in  Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  .  Bell  Labs,  Indianapolis, 
Ind.,  has  named  Gary  Fischer  as  a  member  of  the 
technical  staff. 

Arthur  Flagg  III  is  with  GTE  Sylvania,  Needham 
Heights,  Mass.  .  .  .  Richard  Forand  is  employed  as 
an  engineering  field  representative  by  Industrial 
Risk  Insurers  of  Hartford,  Conn. .  .  .  Frances  Fortin 
serves  as  a  structural  engineer  at  the  David  W. 
Taylor  Naval  Ship  Research  &  Development  Cen- 
ter in  Bethesda,  Md.  .  .  .  Andre  Gagnon  works  in 
the  safeguards  reliability  and  application  division 
at  Westinghouse  Nuclear  Control  Center,  Mon- 
roeville,  Pa. .  .  .  Michael  Gardella  holds  the  post  of 
associate  engineer  at  Electric  Boat  in  Groton, 
Conn. .  .  .  Michael  Gariepy  has  been  employed  as 
a  chemical  vapor  deposition  engineer  at  Analog 


Devices  in  Wilmington,  Mass.  .  .  .  Brian  Gifford  is 
a  project  engineer  at  the  Naval  Ordnance  Station 
at  Indian  Head,  Md.  .  .    Stephen  Gilrein  has 
joined  the  Chicago  District  Corps  of  Engineers. .  .  . 
Currently,  Richard  Goldman  is  attending  Cornell 
University  Law  School. 

Thomas  Grimm  serves  as  assistant  mechanical 
engineer  at  Fluor  Mining  &  Metals,  Inc.,  San 
Mateo,  Calif.  .  .  .  Robert  Guarasi  has  been  em- 
ployed by  the  management  career  system  at  Cruc- 
ible Steel-Colt  Industries,  Midland,  Pa.  .  .  .  Anne- 
marie  Guay  is  a  management  trainee  at  New 
England  Telephone  in  Manchester,  N.H. 
.  .  .  Robert  Guerin  has  joined  the  Aerospace  Elec- 
tronic Systems  Department  at  GE  in  Utica,  N.Y.  He 
is  affiliated  with  the  Edison  Engineering  Program 
Robert  Guillemette  is  a  materials  engineer  at 
Sikorsky  Aircraft,  Stratford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Candyce 
Hallock,  who  was  commissioned  a  second  lieuten- 
ant in  the  U.S.  Air  Force  Reserve  in  May,  is  an 
acquisitions  project  officer  at  Hanscom  AFB,  Mass. 
.    .  Irvin  Halman  works  for  Kodak  in  Rochester, 
N.Y. .  .  .  Carl  Hammer  is  with  the  Outdoor 
Center-Camp  Jewell,  YMCA  of  Metro  Hartford, 
Inc.  in  Colebrook,  Conn.  .  .  .  Michael  Herberg  has 
been  named  to  a  post  with  the  GE  Silicon  Products 
Division,  Waterford,  N.Y.  .  .  .  John  Herr  is  em- 
ployed as  an  associate  engineer  at  Lockheed  in 
Burbank,  Calif.  .  .  .  James  Hinckley  is  with  Xerox 
Corp.,  Rochester,  N.Y.  .  .  .  David  Hoercher  con- 
tinues as  a  graduate  student  at  RPI.  .      Gary 
Holland  works  as  a  teaching  assistant  in  the 


chemistry  department  at  Northwestern  University, 
Evansville,  III.  .  .  .  Edward  Holmes  serves  as  assist- 
ant development  engineer  at  Honeywell  Electro- 
Optics  Center,  Lexington,  Mass. 

Western  Electric  has  employed  Thomas  Horgan 
as  a  marketing  engineer.  He  is  located  in  Boston. 

Arthur  Huggard  is  with  Monsanto  in 
Springfield,  Mass.  .  .    David  Huhtala  holds  the 
post  of  manufacturing  manager  at  GE  in  Lynn, 
Mass. .  .    Brian  Huntley  is  in  the  master's  program 
atWPI. .  .    James  Idelson  hasjoined  LTXCorp.  in 
Newton  Highlands,  Mass.  He  is  an  applications 
engineer-international.  .  .  .  Bruce  Jacobson  is  a 
design  engineer  for  special  equipment  at  Photo- 
panels  of  New  England,  Princeton,  Mass. .  .  . 
Anthony  Jannetta  is  with  Harris  Corp.  in  Roches- 
ter, N.Y.  .  .    Matthew  Johnson  works  in  the  linear 
test  system  group  at  Teradyne  Co.,  Boston.  .  .  . 
Chandrashekhar  Joshi  is  a  graduate  student  at 
MIT.  .  .  .  Currently,  Richard  Jundanian  is  working 
for  his  master's  degree  at  WPI.  While  an  under- 
graduate, he  developed  a  rate-pressure  product 
computer.  The  device,  now  in  the  operating  room 
at  UMass  Medical  School,  is  used  by  surgeons 
during  the  complex  and  critical  procedures  of 
open-heart  surgery  and  tells  the  surgeon  and 
anesthetist  how  strong  the  heart  is.  AtWPI  Junda- 
nian is  working  on  a  more  refined  version  of  the 
computer.  The  NSF  has  asked  him  to  build  an 
artificial  heart  which  will  be  used  in  research  into 
blocked  arteries.  In  the  future,  he  hopes  to  build  an 
artificial  pancreas  for  diabetics. 


School  of  Industrial 

Management 


Edward  Eidt,  '53,  a  former  federal  mediator  in 
Worcester,  is  now  retired  and  living  in  Bushnell, 
Fla. 

Wade  Cloyd,  '64,  who  joined  Raybestos- 
Manhattan  in  December,  has  been  named  vice 
president  of  communications.  In  his  new  post,  he 
is  responsible  for  all  activities  of  the  firm's 
newly-created  Communications  Division.  He 
will  be  concerned  with  environmental  affairs, 
government  relations,  investor  relations,  internal 
corporate  communications,  community  rela- 
tions, and  all  advertising  for  the  corporation. 
Previously,  he  was  director  of  public  and  gov- 
ernmental affairs  at  the  firm. 

Paul  Granquist,  '67,  has  been  appointed  execu- 
tive vice  president  of  Thomas  Smith  Co., 
Worcester.  He  is  responsible  for  general  opera- 
tion of  thecompany.  In  1959,  he  joined  the  firm 
as  cost  accountant.  Prior  to  his  promotion,  he 
was  vice  president  of  administration.  The  com- 
pany manufactures  custom  metal  stampings, 
industrial  fasteners,  rubber  products  and  gas- 
kets. Granquist  has  attended  the  evening  divi- 
sions of  Worcester  Junior  College  and  Clark 
University. 

Currently,  Frank  Gustafson, '71,  serves  as  senior 

product  engineer  at  Bay  State  Abrasives-Dresser 
Industries,  Westboro,  Mass.  He  belongs  to  the 
Professional  Engineering  Society. 


Recently,  John  Fitch,  '74,  was  appointed  man- 
ager of  purchasing  at  Bay  State  Abrasives  in 
Westboro,  Mass.  In  1950  he  began  work  at  the 
company.  Before  his  promotion,  he  had  been 
purchasing  agent.  He  is  a  past  chairman  of  the 
Upton  Water  Commission  and  the  Upton  Hous- 
ing Authority. 

Henry  Mossman,  '74,  has  been  named  director 
of  engineering  operations  at  Bay  State  Abra- 
sives, Westboro.  With  Bay  State  since  1953,  he 
was  serving  as  the  division's  chief  engineer  at  the 
time  of  his  most  recent  promotion.  In  his  new 
post,  he  directs  all  plant  engineering  functions 
and  has  supervisory  responsibility  for  mainte- 
nance, and  the  machine  shop.  He  has  served  as 
president  of  the  Greater  Marlboro  Programs  Inc. 
and  as  a  member  of  the  Marlboro-Westboro 
Mental  Health  Area  Board. 

Carl  Harris,  '75,  was  promoted  to  manager  of 
tooling  and  design  at  Centronics  Data  Computer 
Corporation  in  Hudson,  N.H.  He  has  been  with 
the  company  for  two  years.  Earlier,  he  had  been 
with  the  Thomas  Smith  Company,  Worcesterfor 
ten.  He  has  an  extensive  background  in  all 
phases  of  die  design  and  pressroom  operations. 
In  his  new  post,  he  is  in  charge  of  all  die  design, 
N/C  programming,  tool  room  activities  and 
facilities  for  the  Fabricated  Products  Division. 


Natural 

Science 

Program 


The  Northbridge  (Mass.)  School  Committee  has 
appointed  Conrad  Bibeault,  '68,  to  teach 
physics  and  chemistry  at  the  high  school  starting 
this  fall.  He  had  taught  both  subjects  at  Holy 
Name  Central  Catholic  High  School  in  Worcester 
since  1962,  and  had  served  the  school  as  chair- 
man of  the  science  department.  He  has  a  degree 
from  Providence  College  and  has  taken  graduate 
courses  at  Holy  Cross  and  Framingham  State. 

Clifford  Alio,  '70,  is  an  associate  professor  of  law 
at  the  University  of  Detroit  School  of  Law.  Also, 
he  is  a  consultant  on  Workers'  Compensation 
law  and  costs  to  Michigan  U  AW.  In  1978,  he  ran 
the  Detroit  Free  Press  International  Marathon  in 
2:46:26. . . .  Georges  Caplette  teaches  science  in 
Lincoln,  R.I. 

Deborah  Pietro,  '78,  holds  the  position  of  man- 
ager of  system  design  and  development  for 
Education  Service  Group,  Inc.,  Weeks  Mills,  Me. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Fall  1980  /  29 


Lester  H.  Carter,  '09,  passed  away  on  June  20, 
1980  in  Gardner,  Massachusetts.  He  was  93 
years  old. 

The  former  owner  of  Greenwood  Brothers 
(Insurance),  he  sold  the  business  and  retired  in 
1964.  Previously,  he  had  been  with  Baxter  D. 
Whitney  &  Son,  Heywood-Wakefield,  and  Flor- 
ence Stove  Co.  He  became  affiliated  with 
Greenwood  Insurance  in  1936. 

Mr.  Carter  was  born  on  Nov.  16,1 886  in 
Gardner.  He  received  his  BSME  from  WPI  and 
belonged  to  the  Masons,  the  American  Legion, 
and  the  Elks.  In  World  War  I,  he  was  a  lieutenant 
intheA.E.F. 

Frederick  P.  Church,  '15,  died  in  a  nursing  home 
in  Maiden,  Massachusetts,  on  August  7, 1980. 
He  was  88  years  old. 

Born  in  Norwich,  Conn,  on  Dec.  20, 1891 ,  Mr. 
Church  was  employed  before  his  retirement  in 
the  design  division  at  Stone  &  Webster.  He  had 
also  worked  for  A.  B.  Reed  Engineering  Corp., 
the  business  office  of  Maiden  Hospital,  and  the 
Foxboro  Co.  He  was  an  Army  veteran  of  World 
War  I. 

A  member  of  many  organizations,  he  was 
affiliated  with  the  Masons,  the  Shrine,  the  Ap- 
palachian Mountain  Club,  and  the  Shakespeare 
Festival  Foundation,  as  well  as  the  Schubert 
Club,  which  is  a  choral  group.  He  was  a  past  high 
priest  at  the  Tabernacle  Chapter  of  Maiden. 

Mr.  Church  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappa,  and 
graduated  as  an  electrical  engineer.  He  was  a 
former  member  of  the  WPI  Alumni  Council,  and 
a  past  president  of  the  Boston  chapter  of  the 
Alumni  Association. 

Horace  Trull,  '16,  died  at  his  home  in  Dudley, 
Massachusetts,  on  June  1 ,  1 980. 

He  was  the  owner  of  Trull  Lumber  Co.  from 
1935  until  1972,  when  he  retired,  and  sold  the 
company  to  his  son.  Earlier,  he  had  been  with 
Reed  &  Prentice  Co.,  Bethlehem  Steel,  Pattison 
Coal  &  Lumber  Co.,  and  Reed  &  Prince. 

Mr.  Trull  was  born  on  Nov.  6,  1891  in 
Woburn,  Mass.  He  was  a  member  of  the  Ma- 
sons, the  Dudley  School  Board,  and  the  Webster 
Sailing  Association,  as  well  as  an  incorporator  of 
the  Webster  Five  Cents  Savings  Bank.  In  1916, 
he  received  his  BSME  from  WPI. 


Charles  E.  Heywood,  '17,  a  retired  chief  service 
engineer  from  the  Elastic  Stop  Nut  Corp.  of 
America,  died  unexpectedly  on  July  13,  1980  in 
Colebrook,  New  Hampshire. 

He  was  born  on  Feb.  7,  1894  in  Milwaukee, 
Wis.  In  1917,  he  received  his  BSME  from  WPI. 
Among  his  employers  were  the  Society  of  Au- 
tomotive Engineers  and  Chance  Vaught  Aircraft 
Co.  In  1954,  he  retired  from  the  Elastic  Stop  Nut 
Corporation  of  America. 

Long  interested  in  the  preservation  of  unique 
natural  areas,  Mr.  Heywood  was  the  former 
president  of  the  Maine  chapter  of  the  Nature 
Conservancy.  In  Maine  during  the  1960s,  he 
helped  establish  public  ownership  and  use  of 
Wight  Brook  Step  Falls  in  Newry,  Turtle  Island, 
and  other  coastal  islands.  Other  areas  he  helped 
preserve  were  the  Springvale  rhododendron 
stand,  Grafton  Notch  State  Park,  and  Katahdin 
Iron  Works  State  Historic  Monument.  He  was 
active  in  church  work. 

He  was  the  first  president  of  the  Bethel  (Me.) 
Historical  Society,  and  belonged  to  the  Seminole 
Club  of  Crystal  River,  Fla.,  and  the  Crystal  River 
Power  Squadron.  He  wrote  the  History  of  Up- 
ton, Me. 

Alexander  W.  Caird,  '18,  of  Braintree,  Mas- 
sachusetts, died  on  February  15,  1980. 

He  was  born  on  June  15,  1895  in  Chicago,  III. 
Later  he  became  a  member  of  the  Class  of  1 91 8. 
Among  his  employers  over  the  years  were  Stone 
&  Webster;  the  American  Oil  Co.;  and  Fay, 
Spofford,  &  Thorndike.  He  held  degrees  from 
Harvard  and  MIT,  and  belonged  to  ATO. 

Richard  A.  Heald,  '20,  former  president  of  Heald 
Machine  Co.,  Worcester,  died  at  the  Memorial 
Hospital  on  June  1 7, 1 980.  He  was  80. 

Mr.  Heald  was  president  of  the  firm  from  1949 
to  1955,  when  the  company  was  sold  to  Cincin- 
nati Milacron.  He  served  as  chairman  of  Heald's 
board  of  directors  from  1955  until  he  retired  in 
1964,  following  45  years  of  service.  Before 
becoming  president,  he  had  also  been  treasurer 
of  the  company. 

He  was  born  on  July  2,  1899  in  Barre,  Mass., 
and  later  studied  mechanical  engineering  at 
WPI.  A  well-known  amateur  photographer,  in 
1964,  he  had  a  one-man  show  of  color  photo- 
graphs at  Worcester  Art  Museum.  His  work  was 
shown  throughout  the  Northeast.  Civic-minded, 
he  served  on  the  boards  of  several  banking, 
education,  and  charitable  organizations.  He  be- 
longed to  ATO  and  was  a  former  Worcester 
council  representative. 

Brig.  Gen.  James  F.  Early,  '22,  of  Baltimore, 
Maryland,  died  on  March  30,  1980. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  was  born  on  Feb.  3, 
1901 .  After  attending  WPI,  he  entered  West 
Point,  graduating  with  a  BS  in  1923.  Im- 
mediately following  graduation  he  joined  the 
U.S.  Air  Force.  He  was  one  of  the  few  officers 
who  served  with  the  Eighth  Air  Force  Service 
Command  in  both  the  European  and  Pacific 
theaters  during  World  War  II,  and  he  received 


decorations  for  his  accomplishments  in  each 
zone.  The  decorations  included  the  Bronze  Star 
with  an  Oak  Leaf  Cluster,  the  Legion  of  Merit 
with  Cluster,  and  the  War  Department  Com- 
mendation Medal. 

During  his  military  career,  he  held  a  number  of 
posts.  At  one  time,  he  was  chief  of  the  Supply 
Division,  Air  Materiel  Command,  headquartered 
at  Wright-Patterson  AFB  in  Dayton,  Ohio.  Later 
he  served  in  the  Pentagon.  In  the  1950s,  he  was 
assistant  president  of  Fairchild  Engine  and 
Airplane  Corp. 

C.  Francis  Weeks,  '24,  a  retired  operating  en- 
gineer from  Stone  &  Webster-Badger  Process 
Division,  died  on  April  26, 1980  in  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah,  after  a  long  illness. 

He  was  born  on  April  15, 1901,  in  Brockton, 
Mass.  In  1 924,  he  graduated  as  a  chemist  from 
WPI.  During  his  career,  he  was  with  Fiberloid 
Corporation,  Beveridge-Marvellum  Co.,  U.S. 
Envelope,  and  the  Badger  Process  Division  of 
Stone  &  Webster  Engineering  Corp.  At  one  time, 
he  was  a  chemical  construction  enginer  traveling 
in  Europe,  Iran,  and  Africa. 

Arthur  V.  Houle,  '25,  retired  senior  vice  presi- 
dent of  Sears  Bank  &  Trust  Company,  Chicago, 
died  on  June  17,  1980  at  his  home  in  Winona, 
Minnesota. 

He  was  associated  with  the  bank  for  25  years, 
retiring  in  1 966  as  senior  vice  president.  Follow- 
ing his  graduation  as  an  electrical  engineer  from 
WPI,  he  was  employed  at  New  York  Edison  Co., 
and  later  at  Cooper  Union  Institute  of  Technol- 
ogy, and  South  Side  Savings  Bank  &  Trust  Co., 
Chicago. 

A  native  of  Millbury,  Mass.,  he  was  born  on 
Aug.  20, 1900.  He  belonged  to  Tau  Beta  Pi  and 
Robert  Morris  Associates. 

Howard  G.  Lasselle,  '26,  of  Westwood,  Mas- 
sachusetts, died  on  March  7,  1980.  He  was 
retired  vice  president  of  New  England  Power 
Service  Co. 

In  1927,  he  joined  the  power  company  as  a 
meter  tester  in  Worcester.  Increasingly  responsi- 
ble posts  in  the  New  England  Electric  System, 
included  that  of  assistant  superintendent  of  dis- 
tribution in  Providence  and  executive  assistant  in 
Boston.  In  1956,  he  was  named  system  distribu- 
tion engineer  and  two  years  later,  vice  president 
of  New  England  Power  and  general  purchasing 
agent  for  New  England  Electric  System  com- 
panies. He  retired  in  1 969  following  42  years  of 
service. 

Mr.  Lasselle  was  born  on  May  17,  1904  in 
Berlin,  Mass.  In  1926,  he  received  his  BSEE  from 
WPI.  He  belonged  to  the  Providence  (R.I.)  En- 
gineering Society  and  the  National  Purchasing 
Agents'  Association. 


30  /  Fall  1980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


ril^llb1  II 


Charles  MacLennan,  '27,  passed  away  on  July 
20,  1 980  in  Halifax,  Nova  Scotia  after  a  brief 
illness. 

He  was  born  in  River  John,  Nova  Scotia, 
Canada  on  May  23, 1903.  In  1927,  he  received 
his  BSEE  from  WPI.  Following  graduation,  he 
spent  a  short  time  with  Brooklyn  Edison,  then 
several  years  at  New  England  Power  in  Millbury , 
Mass.  In  1935,  he  went  to  India,  where  he 
progressed  to  the  post  of  manager  at  Tata  Hydro 
Electric  Co.  After  twenty  years,  he  moved  to 
New  York,  where  he  worked  for  American  and 
Foreign  Power  Co.,  holding  a  five-year  assign- 
ment in  Brazil.  Later,  while  with  the  World  Bank 
in  Washington,  he  took  a  post  in  South  Africa. 
His  final  full-time  job  was  with  Harza  Engineer- 
ing in  Chicago. 

In  retirement,  he  was  associated  with  Cana- 
dian Executive  Services  in  a  consulting  capacity. 
He  also  devoted  time  to  his  dream  of  harnessing 
the  high  Bay  of  Fundy  tides.  With  the  help  of  a 
professor  from  England  and  Baron  Rothschild, 
he  finally  convinced  the  dominion  and  province 
to  plan  a  pilot  plant.  At  the  time  of  his  death, 
Charlie  was  writing  a  book  on  his  50-year  strug- 
gle to  harness  the  tides. 

Always  generous,  he  donated  part  of  his  large 
River  John  property  to  the  post  office  for  a 
building  plot,  and  gave  another  building  lot  for  a 
retirement  home  for  senior  citizens,  which  he 
sponsored. 

Emmett  A.  Thrower,  '27,  retired  purchasing 
agent  on  the  corporate  staff  of  U.S.  Envelope 
Co.,  died  July  22,  1980  in  Springfield,  Mas- 
sachusetts. He  was  75. 

A  native  of  Gardner,  Mass.,  he  was  born  on 
Aug.  28,  1904.  In  1927,  he  graduated  as  a 
mechanical  engineer  from  WPI. 

Mr.  Thrower  joined  USE  in  1928,  in  the  paper 
department,  and  he  was  named  head  of  the  local 
purchasing  department  in  1944.  He  was  ap- 
pointed purchasing  agent  to  the  corporate  pur- 
chasing staff  in  1965.  In  1969,  he  retired.  During 
World  War  II,  he  was  a  lieutenant  in  the  Mas- 
sachusetts State  Guard. 

He  was  a  32nd  degree  Mason,  and  belonged 
to  the  Eastern  Star,  the  Sons  of  Union  Veterans, 
SAE,  and  the  Congregational  Church.  Formerly, 
he  was  a  member  of  the  National  Association  of 
Purchasing  Management,  as  well  as  past  presi- 
dent of  the  Connecticut  Valley  Chapter  of  the 
WPI  Alumni  Association.  He  was  the  brother  of 
Alvin  Thrower,  '30. 

Richard  J.  Stone,  '29,  died  on  June  10,  1980  in 
Monadnock  Community  Hospital,  Jaffrey,  New 
Hampshire.  He  was  72  years  old. 

He  was  born  on  Jan.  8,  1908  in  Worcester.  In 
1929,  he  received  his  BSME  from  WPI.  During 
his  career,  he  was  associated  with  Rockwood 
Sprinkler  Co.,  Employers'  Liability  Assurance 
Corp.,  American  Steel  &  Wire  Co.,  A.  L.  Stern 
Co.,  and  American  Steel  &  Wire.  From  1940  to 
1 945  he  was  with  the  War  Department. 

Other  employers  included  C.F.  &  I  Steel  Corp. 
and  the  Wickwire  Division  of  the  Colorado  Fuel 
&  Iron  Corp.,  New  York  City.  In  1970,  he  retired 


as  assistant  to  the  president  of  Lawler  Automatic 
Controls,  Inc.,  Mt.  Vernon,  N.Y. 

Mr.  Stone  belonged  to  AEPi,  ASME,  and 
Sigma  Xi.  He  served  as  past  chairman  and  secre- 
tary of  the  Jaffrey  Board  of  Adjustment,  and  he 
was  involved  in  the  Neighbors  Helping  Neigh- 
bors organization. 

F.  Parker  Smith,  '30,  passed  away  on  May  1 1 , 
1 980  in  Glendora,  California,  after  suffering  a 
stroke  on  May  8th. 

A  native  of  Geneva,  N.Y.,  he  was  born  on  Dec. 
23,  1906.  He  graduated  as  a  mechanical  en- 
gineer in  1930.  Among  his  employers  were 
Gilbert  &  Barker  Mfg.  Co.,  West  Springfield, 
Mass.;  Hillhouse  &  Taylor,  Willimantic,  Conn.; 
Reda  Manufacturing  Co.,  Chicopee,  Mass.;  and 
Lockheed  Aircraft,  Burbank,  Calif.  For  a  number 
of  years,  he  was  a  distributor  of  auto  supplies  in 
California. 

Mr.  Smith  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappa.  He 
was  the  brother  of  Charles  Smith,  '35. 

Edgar  A.  Phaneuf ,  '31 ,  of  Southboro,  Mas- 
sachusetts, a  retired  research  engineer,  died  in 
Framingham  Union  Hospital  on  July  13, 1980. 
He  was  73. 

In  1931 ,  he  graduated  as  an  electrical  en- 
gineer. After  graduation,  he  was  with  E.  A. 
Phaneuf  Construction  Co.  for  several  years.  He 
joined  the  Metropolitan  (Boston)  District  Water 
Supply  Commission  in  1 936.  After  serving  as  an 
associate  electrical  engineer  for  the  U.S.  Navy  at 
Quonset  Point,  he  worked  at  Telechron.  For  24 
years,  he  held  the  post  of  research  and  develop- 
ment engineer  at  GE  in  Ashland  before  retiring  in 
1962.  He  was  associated  with  GE's  Clock  and 
Timer  Department  in  the  Dental  Health  Section. 

An  inventor  who  held  many  patents,  Mr. 
Phaneuf  was  awarded  GE's  Phillip  J.  Cordiner 
Award  for  excellence  in  engineering.  He  be- 
longed to  Sigma  Xi,  served  on  the  Southboro 
Advisory  Board,  his  church  building  committee, 
and  as  a  scoutmaster. 

Curtis  M.  White,  '32,  of  San  Diego,  California, 
died  recently. 

He  was  born  on  June  24,  1 909  in  Gardner, 
Mass.,  and  later  became  a  member  of  the  Class 
of  1932.  His  employers  included  the  Florence 
Stove  Co.,  the  Aviation  Corp.,  Welbilt  Stove  Co., 
and  Gray  Manufacturing  Co.  He  also  worked  for 
G.  Fox  &  Co.,  Hartford,  Conn.,  and  General 
Office  Utilities,  Chicago,  III.,  from  which  he  was 
retired.  He  belonged  to  Theta  Chi. 

Allan  R.  Catheron,  '34,  a  former  Foxboro  Com- 
pany systems  research  engineer,  died  at  his 
home  in  Concord,  Massachusetts  on  June  17, 
1980. 

At  Foxboro,  he  was  involved  in  the  develop- 
ment of  pilot  process  equipment  and  industrial 
measurement  and  control  devices.  He  joined  the 
company  in  1 936,  and  was  a  member  of  the 
research  department  since  1937,  except  for  a 
change  to  ordnance  production  engineering  dur- 
ing the  war  years.  He  transferred  to  the  STS 
group  as  a  systems  research  engineer  in  1 968.  In 
1 975,  he  retired,  but  remained  active  as  a  com- 
pany consultant. 


Mr.  Catheron  was  chairman  of  the  Automatic 
Control  Division  of  the  ASME,  a  member  of  the 
Basic  Engineering  Policy  Board,  and  the  Com- 
munications Board,  to  name  a  few  of  his  ASME 
responsibilities.  He  conducted  college  seminars 
on  problems  of  industrial  measurement  and 
control.  Among  his  various  patents  were  those 
for  a  rate  of  climb  (change)  meter  and  a  self- 
adjusting  electrical  controller.  He  wrote  a 
number  of  articles,  as  well  as  a  chapter  on 
pneumatic  components  in  McGraw  Hill's  Con- 
trol Engineers  Handbook. 

He  was  born  on  Aug.  25, 1910  in  Boston.  In 
1934,  he  received  his  BSME.  He  belonged  to  Phi 
Gamma  Delta  and  was  a  fellow  of  the  ASME. 

James  A.  Lane,  '36,  one  of  the  first  design 
engineers  to  work  on  the  Manhattan  Project  in 
World  War  II,  died  on  June  7, 1 980  in  Annapolis, 
Maryland.  He  was  66  years  old. 

At  the  time  of  his  death,  he  was  a  staff 
member  at  the  Institute  for  Energy  Analysis 
(IEA).  For  many  years,  he  had  been  a  top  staff 
member  at  Oak  Ridge  (Tenn.)  National  Labora- 
tory, and  he  was  largely  responsible  for  establish- 
ing Oak  Ridge  as  a  major  center  of  nuclear 
research  following  World  War  II. 

Herman  Postma,  the  current  director  of  Oak 
Ridge  National  Laboratory  (ORNL),  has  said, 
"Jim  Lane  was  one  of  the  charter  members  of 
ORNL  and  among  the  first  to  recognize  and  push 
the  commercial  potential  of  nuclear  energy.  He 
was  recognized  for  that  leadership  in  the  U.S. 
and  worldwide  and  was  sought  after  for  his 
insights  and  expertise  by  many  countries." 

Mr.  Lane  was  born  on  Jan.  12, 1914  in 
Worcester.  He  received  his  BS  in  chemistry  from 
WPI  in  1936  and  his  master's  degree  in  1938.  He 
did  postgraduate  work  as  an  international  ex- 
change fellow  at  the  University  of  Gottingen  in 
Germany  and  at  the  University  of  Delaware. 

During  his  career,  he  was  with  du  Pont,  the 
University  of  Chicago  (Manhattan  Project),  and 
Clinton  Laboratories,  as  well  as  the  U.S.  Atomic 
Energy  Commission,  Washington,  D.C.,  where 
he  served  as  chief  of  the  reactor  evaluation  staff 
in  1952.  In  1953,  he  was  back  in  Oak  Ridge  as 
director  of  the  Reactor  Experimental  Engineering 
Division.  While  at  ORNL,  he  led  teams  to  help 
develop  nuclear  power  in  Brazil,  Egypt,  Israel, 
and  Pakistan. 

In  1972,  he  became  a  consultant  with  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  in  Vienna, 
Austria,  where  he  lived  until  1975.  He  spent 
1975  back  at  Oak  Ridge,  from  which  he  retired 
in  1976.  He  returned  to  the  IAEA  in  Vienna 
between  1976  and  1978.  His  last  post  was  with 
the  IEA. 

Mr.  Lane  belonged  to  Lambda  Chi  Alpha, 
Sigma  Xi,  and  Tau  Beta  Pi.  He  was  a  fellow  of  the 
American  Nuclear  Society. 

In  addition  to  his  engineering  work,  he  was 
interested  in  tennis  and  was  an  avid  sportsman. 
He  had  the  reputation  of  being  "the  best  bad- 
minton player  in  the  city."  He  enjoyed  sailing, 
ballroom  dancing,  and  coin  collecting. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Fall  1980  /  31 


John  Higginson,  '37,  died  on  March  29, 1 980  in 
an  automobile  accident  in  Iraan,  Texas.  He  was 
64. 

He  was  born  on  Aug.  10, 191 5  in  West  Haven, 
Conn.,  and  graduated  as  a  mechanical  engineer 
in  1937.  During  World  War  II,  he  served  with  the 
U.S.  Navy  as  a  lieutenant  commander  in  sub- 
marine design  and  testing.  For  many  years,  he 
was  with  Thiokol  Chemical  Corporation  in  Utah, 
where  he  was  employed  as  general  manager  and 
later  as  special  assistant  to  the  vice  president, 
before  going  on  medical  leave  in  1976. 

Mr.  Higginson  was  a  member  of  the  board  of 
trustees  of  Weber  State  College,  and  he  be- 
longed to  the  Brigham  City  Chamber  of  Com- 
merce, Lambda  Chi  Alpha,  and  the  Rotary.  He 
was  a  life  member  of  the  Elks. 

Norman  C.  Bergstrom,  '42,  a  quality  assurance 
supervisor  at  the  Gary  (Ind.)  Works  of  U.S.  Steel 
Corp.,  died  on  June  2,  1980  in  Merrillville, 
Indiana.  He  was  59  years  old. 

For  eight  years  at  the  Gary  Works,  he  was  a 
quality  assurance  supervisor  in  the  blast-furnace 
and  raw  materials  division.  Previously,  he  had 
worked  for  U.S.  Steel  Corp.,  in  Worcester,  and 
had  been  a  works  chemist  in  Duluth,  Minn. 

Mr.  Bergstrom  was  born  on  Sept.  29, 1920  in 
Worcester.  He  joined  American  Steel  &  Wire 
(U.S.  Steel)  following  graduation  as  a  chemist  in 
1942.  He  was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa,  the 
A.C.S.,  the  Society  for  Applied  Spectroscopy  and 
the  Masons. 

Richard  W.  Russell,  '44,  a  class  agent  for  the 
Class  of  1944,  died  on  May  12,  1980  in  Califor- 
nia while  on  vacation. 

He  was  born  on  Jan.  4, 1923  in  Philadelphia. 
Upon  receiving  his  BSEE,  he  joined  Lockheed 
Aircraft  Corp.  Later  he  received  his  MBA  from 
Harvard  Business  School,  and  became  affiliated 
with  Lybrand  Ross  Bros.  &  Montgomery  in  Los 
Angeles.  At  the  time  of  his  death,  he  was  a 
partner  in  Coopers  &  Lybrand  in  Washington, 
D.C. 

A  certified  public  accountant,  Mr.  Russell  be- 
longed to  the  American  Institute  of  Certified 
Public  Accountants,  and  the  California  State 
Society  of  Certified  Public  Accountants.  He  was 
active  with  the  Boy  Scouts,  having  served  on  the 
executive  board  of  the  Los  Angeles  Area  Coun- 
cil. He  belonged  to  Lambda  Chi  Alpha  and  was  in 
the  USNR  during  World  War  II. 


Roger  J.  Cameron,  '57SIM,  died  at  his  home  in 
Chicago  Heights,  Illinois  on  May  23,  1980.  He 
was  65. 

He  retired  as  manager  of  engineering  adminis- 
tration for  Pullman  Standard  in  Chicago  last  year 
following  twenty  years  of  service. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  lived  in  Worcester  for 
forty-five  years  before  moving  to  Illinois  twenty 
years  ago. 

James  J.  Taparowsky,  '69SIM,  died  on  June  8, 
1 980  at  the  Memorial  Hospital  in  Worcester  at 
the  age  of  62. 

He  was  a  chief  engineer  for  New  England  High 
Carbon  Wire  Corp.  in  Millbury,  Mass.,  where  he 
worked  for  38  years.  Last  year,  he  retired. 

Mr.  Taparowsky  belonged  to  St.  Andrew  the 
Apostle  parish  and  its  Men's  Club,  Worcester 
County  Bee  Keepers'  Association,  Boston  Min- 
eral Club,  New  Haven  Mineral  Club,  Canadian 
Micro  Mineral  Association,  New  England  Micro 
Mounters,  Singletary  Rod  and  Gun  Club,  and  the 
National  Rifle  Association.  He  was  a  past  presi- 
dent of  the  Worcester  Mineral  Club. 

During  World  War  II,  he  was  in  the  Army 
Signal  Corps.  A  Worcester  native,  he  graduated 
from  Clark  in  1940,  and  from  WPI's  School  of 
Industrial  Management  in  1969. 

David  K.  Ramsden,  '77,  a  junior  at  the  Illinois 
College  of  Podiatric  Medicine,  died  in  Chicago  of 
injuries  sustained  in  an  auto  accident  on  June  5, 
1980.  He  was  25. 

Born  in  Providence,  R.I.,  on  April  24, 1955,  he 
later  enrolled  at  WPI.  In  1977  he  received  his  BS 
in  life  sciences.  He  belonged  to  the  Baptist 
Church. 


Philip  J.  O'Connor,  '52,  development  manager 
at  Ashland  Chemical  Co.,  died  at  his  home  in 
Columbus,  Ohio,  on  June  12, 1980. 

During  his  career,  he  was  with  General  Chem- 
ical of  Allied  Chemical,  Catalin  Corp.  of  America, 
and  Ashland  Chemical.  He  served  two  years  in 
the  U.S.  Coast  Guard. 

Mr.  O'Connor  was  born  on  Jan.  21, 1928  in 
Warren,  Ohio.  In  1952,  he  received  his  BS  in 
chemistry  from  WPI.  At  Ashland  Chemical  he 
was  involved  with  marketing  and  sales.  He  was  a 
member  of  Phi  Kappa  Theta,  and  he  had  served 
as  a  class  agent. 


32  /  Fall  1 980  /  The  WPI  Journal 


US     POSTAL  SERVICE 


STATEMENT  OF  OWNERSHIP,  MANAGEMENT  AND  CIRCULATION 

(Required  by  J9  (J.S.C.  3685) 


I.  TITLE  OF  PUBLICATION 

THE    WPI    JOURNAL 


A.  PUBLICATION  NO. 


2.  OATE  OF   FILING 


10/14/80 


3.  FREQUENCY   OF  ISSUE 

Quarterly  plus   catalog  issue   in   September 


A.     NO.  OF   ISSUES  PUBLISHED 
ANNUALLY 


i      ANNUAL  SUBSCRIPTION 
PRICE 


4.  LOCATION  OF  known  office  OF  publication  (Street,  City,  County,  State  and  ZIP  Code)  (Not  printer*) 

Boynton   Hall,    Institute   Road,    Worcester,    Worcester  County,    Massachusetts   01609 


5.  LOCATION   OF   THE   HEADQUARTERS  OR  GENERAL   BUSINESS  OFFICES  OF  THE   PUBLISHERS  fNof  printers) 

Boynton   Hall ,    Institute   Road,    Worcester ,    Worcester   County ,    Massachusetts    01609 


NAMES  AND  COMPLETE  ADDRESSES  OF  PUBLISHER,  EDITOR,  AND  MANAGING  EDITOR 


publisher  (Name  and  Addre$$) 

Worcester   Polytechnic   Institute,    Worcester ,    Massachusetts   01609 


editor  (Name  and  Address) 

Russell    Kay,    Worcester   Polytechnic   Institute ,    Worcester ,    Massachusetts   01609 


managing  EDITOR  (Name  and  Address) 

none 


7.    OWNER  (If  owned  by  a  corporation,  its  name  and  address  must  be  stated  and  also  immediately  thereunder  the  names  and  addresses  of  stock- 
holders owning  or  holding  I  percent  or  more  of  total  amount  of  stock.  If  not  owned  by  a  corporation,  the  names  and  addresses  of  the  individual 
owners  must  he  given.  If  owned  by  a  partnership  or  other  unincorporated  firm,  its  name  and  address,  as  well  as  that  of  each  individual  must  be 
giving.  If  the  publication  is  published  by  a  nonprofit  organization,  its  name  and  address  must  be  stated.) 


ADORES 


Worcester   Polytechnic   Institute 


Worcester ,    Massachusetts    01609 


KNOWN  BONDHOLDERS.  MORTGAGEES.  AND  OTHER  SECURITY  HOLDERS  OWNING  OR  HOLDING   1  PERCENT  OR  MORE  OF 
TOTAL  AMOUNT  OF  BONDS,  MORTGAGES  OR  OTHER  SECURITIES  (If  there  are  none,  so  state) 


ADDRESS 


none 


9.  FOR  COMPLETION  BY  NONPROFIT  ORGANIZATIONS  AUTHORIZED  TO  MAIL  AT  SPECIAL  RATES  (Section  132  122,  PSM) 
The  purpose,  function,  and  nonprofit  status  of  this  organization  and  the  exempt  status  for  Federal  income  tax  purposes  (Check  one) 


0HAVE   NOT  CHANGED  DURING  I        ]  HAVE   CHANGED  DURINC 

PRECEDING    12   MONTHS  I        I  PRECEDING    12  MONTHS 


(If  changed,  publisher  must  submit  explanation  of  change 
with  this  statement.) 


EXTENT  ANO  NATURE  OF  CIRCULATION 


AVERAGE  NO.  COPIES  EACH 

ISSUE  DURING  PRECEDING 

12  MONTHS 


ACTUAL  NO  COPIES  OF  SINGLE 
ISSUE  PUBLISHED  NEAREST  TO 
FILING  DATE 


A      TOTAL   NO     COPIES  PRINTED  (Net  Press  Run) 


21,900 


30,000 


PAID  CIRCULATION 

I.    SALES  THROUGH   DEALERS  AND  CARRIERS.  STREET 
VENDORS   AND  COUNTER  SALES 


2.    MAIL  SUBSCRIPTIONS 


C.     TOTAL  PAID  CIRCULATION   (Sum  of  1031  and   10B2) 


O.     FREE   DISTRIBUTION    BY   MAIL.  CARRIER  OR   OTHER   MEANS 
SAMPLES,  COMPLIMENTARY.   AND  OTHER   FREE  COPIES 


21,416 


29,504 


E-    TOTAL  DISTRIBUTION  (Sum  of  C  and  D) 


21,416 


29,504 


COPIES  NOT   DISTRIBUTED 

1.    OFFICE   USE.   LEFT  OVER.  UNACCOUNTED.  SPOILED 
AFTER   PRINTING 


484 


496 


2.  RETURNS  FROM  NEWS  AGENTS 


G.    TOTAL  (Sum  of  E.  Fl  and  2—ihould  equal  net  pren  run  shown 
in  A) 


21,900 


30,000 


II.    I  certify  that  the  statements  made  by  me 
above  are  correct  and  complete. 


B 


SIGNATURE   ANO  TITLE  OF  EDITOR.  PUBLISHER.  BUSINESS 
MAN.AjGC'ft.  OR  OWNEB?  /If/ 


€^tX/\^ 


12.  FOR  COMPLETION  BY  PUBLISHERS  MAILING  AT  THE  REGULAR  RATES  (Section  132.121.  PtUtal  Service  Manual) 


39  U.  S  C.  3626  provides  In  pertinent  part  "No  person  who  would  have  been  entitled  to  mall  maner  under  former  section  4359  of  thlt  title 
shall  mail  such  maner  at  the  rates  provided  under  this  subsection  unless  he  files  annually  with  the  Postal  Service  a  written  request  for  permission 
to  mail  matter  at  such  rates  " 

In  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  this  statute,  I  hereby  request  permission  to  mall  the  publication  named  in  Item  1  at  the  phased  postage 
rates  presently  authorized  by  39  U    S.  C.  3626 


SIGNATURE   AND  TITLE  OF   EDITOR,   PUBLISHER,   BUSINESS  MANAGER.  OR   OWNER 


«gFo™8  3526  (Page  1) 


(See  instructions  on  reverse) 


- 


T 

I 

/   1 

- 

/i 


!W»^       ^-7 

F 

- 

- 

W  /  "^  • 

A^r, 

k 

Km* 

EX 

•'•^PBP^W 

■Mmv 

-     * 


•  • 


. 


Winter  1981 


Ilipp 


1  Winter  1981 

— 

MMnm 

*«fW 

IN  THIS  ISSUE 

2         Homecoming 

Three  views  of  a  super  Homecoming  weekend 


S        Sounds  Good 

Music  from  the  Glee  Club 


9         Sinkholes!? 

Bill  Murray's  got  them  all  over  the  airport. 


10       People  Who  Live  in  Glass  Houses 

You  won't  find  the  Shahs  throwing  stones 


1 1       Class  Secretaries  and  Representatives 


12        Your  Class  and  Others 


30      Completed  Careers 


On  the  cover:  A  restful  wintry  scene  at  Higgms  House 


Editor:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Alumni  Information  Editor:  Ruth  S.  Trask 

Designer:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Typesetting:  County  Photo  Compositing, 
Inc.,  Jefferson,  Mass. 

Printing:  Davis  Press,  Inc.,  Worcester,  Mass. 

Alumni  Publications  Committee:  Donald  E. 
Ross,  '54,  chairman;  Robert  C.  Gosling,  '68; 
Sidney  Madwed,  '49;  Samuel  W.  Mencow,  '37; 
Kathleen  Molony,  77;  Stanley  P.  Negus,  Jr., 
'54- 


Address  all  correspondence  to  the  Editor,  The 
WPI  Journal,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute, 
Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609.  Telephone 
(617)753-1411. 

The  WPI  Journal  is  published  for  the  WPI 
Alumni  Association  by  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute.  Copyright       1980  by  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute.  All  rights  reserved. 

The  WPI  Journal  (usps  issn  no.  0148-6128)  is 
published  five  times  a  year,  quarterly  plus  a 
catalog  issue  (identified  as  no.  2)  in  September. 
Second  Class  postage  paid  at  Worcester,  Mas- 
sachusetts. 


WPI  ALUMNI  ASSOCIATION 

President:  John  H.  McCabe,  '68 

Senior  Vice  President:  Peter  H.  Horstmann,  '55 

Vice  President:  Clark  Poland,  '48 

Secretary-Treasurer:  Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President:  Willlam  A.  Jullan,  '49 

Executive  Committee  members-at-large: 
Philip  B.  Ryan,  '65;  Donald  E.  Ross,  '54; 
Anson  C.  Fyler,  '45;  Harry  W.  Tenney,  Jr.,  '56 

Fund  Board:  Henry  Styskal,  Jr.,  '50,  chair- 
man; Richard  B.  Kennedy,  '65,  vice  chairman; 
Gerald  Finkle,  '57;  Philip  H.  Puddington,  '59; 
Richard  A.  Davis,  '53;  C.  John  Lindegren,  '39; 
John  H.  Tracy,  '52 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Winter  1981/1 


HOMECOMING 


for  1980  was  a  rather  special  week- 
end. Scheduled  earlier  in  the  season 
than  in  previous  years,  it  was  blessed 
with  good  weather  and  entertained 
by  a  WPI  football  team  that  could  do 
the  job!  Here  are  some  of  the  high- 
lights of  Homecoming  1980,  as  seen 
through  the  eyes  of  several  of  the 
participants. 


Planning  a  party  can  be  a  lot  of 
fun,  especially  when  your 
guests  pay  their  own  way  and 
a  professional  staff  is  in  place  to  help 
with  the  details.  So  when  Jim  Fee, 
chairman  of  the  Class  of  '65's  15th 
Reunion,  asked  if  I  would  like  to 
serve  on  his  committee,  I  was  quick 
to  say  yes.  This  was  our  class's  first 
big  reunion  since  graduation. 

Jim,  my  old  fraternity  brother 
and  present-day  jogging  buddy,  has  a 
reputation  for  cutting  red  tape — 
lengthwise.  But  he  did  a  good  job  of 
putting  together  a  Reunion  Commit- 
tee, with  Ron  Greene,  Jake  Jacobson, 
Bill  Lightfoot,  Steve  Rudnick,  him- 
self, and  me.  Starting  in  the  fall  of 
1979,  the  committee  planned,  plot- 
ted, and  worked  to  make  our  15th 
live  up  to  what  people  might  expect 
from  WPI's  centennial  class.  And 
judging  by  the  turnout  and  the  re- 
ports that  filtered  back  to  me,  no  one 
was  disappointed. 


Any  report  of  the  day  would 
have  to  center  on  Higgins  House,  the 
stately  'tudor'  mansion,  next  to  the 
soccer  field,  that  only  Mrs.  Higgins 
got  to  enjoy  during  our  undergradu- 
ate days.  Now  it  is  part  of  the 
campus,  and  on  Homecoming  Satur- 
day was  headquarters  for  the  Class  of 
'65  Reunion.  Guests  registered  in 
the  lobby,  drank  bloody  marys  on 
the  sun  porch,  and  had  brunch  be- 
neath the  high-beamed  ceiling  of  the 
great  hall.  There  were  straw  hats  for 
classmates,  flowers  for  their  guests, 
Reunion  yearbooks  for  everyone, 
and  balloons  for  whomever  got  to 
them  first. 

Higgins  House  was  also  the 
scene  for  the  brief  program  that  fol- 
lowed brunch.  Jake  Jacobson,  who 
had  mailed  a  questionnaire  to  class 
members  over  the  summer,  pre- 
sented the  results,  some  of  which 
were  surprising:  64  percent  of  our 
classmates  are  still  employed  as  en- 
gineers; 85  percent  would,  if  they 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Winter  1981/3 


had  it  to  do  over  again,  get  their  un- 
dergraduate education  at  WPI;  55 
percent  married  their  high  school  or 
college  sweetheart;  81  percent  do 
not  smoke;  and  83  percent  are  for 
Reagan  Editor's  note:  this  was  writ- 
ten prior  to  the  1 980  election. 

All  Jake's  statistics,  plus  the 
autobiographies  of  86  classmates, 
are  bound  into  the  Reunion  year- 
book. (If  you  weren't  there  and 
didn't  get  one,  a  few  copies  are  still 
available  from  the  Alumni  Office  for 
$5.00.) 

Jake  also  made  a  few  awards:  to 
Phil  Ryan,  for  losing  the  most  hair 
since  graduation;  to  Gene  Dionne, 
for  traveling  the  farthest  (from  Los 
Angeles)  to  attend;  to  Phil  Bachelder 
and  Jack  Kelley,  tied  in  the  category 
of  most  children,  with  four  each; 
and,  special  awards  to  the  two  fac- 
ulty members  cited  most  often  in 


the  questionnaire  responses  as  'most 
memorable':  William  Grogan  and 
John  van  Alstyne. 

Next,  Jim  Fee  and  I  became  the 
'Not  Ready  For  Skull  Players,'  pre- 
senting the  highlights  and  lowlights 
of  our  freshman  year.  Not  all  the 
lines  were  memorable,  but  the  water 
balloons  were  a  hit,  and  we  decided 
not  to  use  the  fire  crackers.  The  skit 
proved  once  again  that,  although 
you  are  only  young  once,  you  can  be 
immature  all  your  life. 

From  Higgins  House,  people 
filed  down  to  the  football  game  and 
the  Class  of  '65  tent,  which  stood 
near  the  field  and  offered  compli- 
mentary drinks.  There,  more  than 
anyplace  else,  people  got  to  mix, 
greet  old  fiends  and  faculty,  and,  un- 
der a  beautiful  autumn  New  England 
sky,  get  caught  up  on  15  years  of  ex- 
periences. 


What  is  most  amazing,  perhaps, 
is  the  positive  attitude  this  class  dis- 
plays toward  life  in  general.  Evi- 
dence of  that  seems  to  jump  from 
almost  every  page  of  the  Reunion 
yearbook,  where  classmates  describe 
their  hobbies,  travels,  professional 
achievements,  patents,  families, 
community  and  church  activities, 
and  advanced  degrees.  Almost  to  a 
man,  they  testify  to  their  satisfac- 
tion with  the  way  things  have 
worked  out.  Nils  Ericksen  wrote  it 
one  way:  "very  proud  to  be  a  gradu- 
ate of  WPI."  But  Charles  Dufour 
may  have  said  it  best:  "We  believe 
the  times  have  been  good  to  us." 

— PatMoran,  '65 


4  /  Winter  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 





M 


emories  of  the  days  when 


....  You  met  hundreds  of  new 
people  during  Freshman  Orienta- 
tion, and  were  overwhelmed  trying 
to  remember  all  their  names. 

....  You  entered  the  cage 
ball  game,  and  were  trampled  by 
your  own  team. 

....  You  attended  your  first 
class  at  WPI  and  panicked  because, 
your  professor  wrote  mathematical 
formulas  on  the  board  with  his  right 
hand  as  he  erased  them  with  his  left. 

....  You  placed  your  first 
frantic  phone  call  to  your  parents  to 
say,  "send  me  some  money!  I  already 
spent  everything  I  had." 

....  You  sat  down  to  take 
your  first  exam,  and  had  no  idea 
what  the  questions  meant. 

....  You  ran  your  first  com- 
puter program,  and  then  spent  all 
night  trying  to  correct  the  mistakes 
before  your  8:00  a.m.  computer 
class. 

....  You  decided  to  relax  on 
the  quad  instead  of  studying  for  your 
fluids  exam,-  after  all,  you  didn't 
need  to  study  since  fluids  is  just 
common  sense. 

....  You  participated  in  the 
Paddle  Rush  and  the  Rope  Pull,  and 
then  wondered  why  every  muscle  in 
your  body  ached. 

....  You  attended  a  concert 
and  some  athletic  events  during  a 
weekend  the  alumni  called  Home- 
coming, and  then  asked  why  they 
called  it  that! 

....  You  went  home  for 
Thanksgiving  and  ate  enough  food  to 
keep  you  from  starving  for  six 
months. 

....  You  shivered  as  you 
trudged  across  the  campus  during  a 
snow  storm,  and  wondered  if  the  un- 
merciful wind  would  push  you  off 
the  top  of  the  hill.  Then  you  called 
home  to  find  out  how  to  unlock  your 
car  doors  once  the  locks  had  frozen. 

....  You  slept  day  and 
night  for  the  first  week  of  winter 
break,  and  then  woke  yourself  only 
because  you  thought  you  had  missed 
a  class. 


....  You  attended  Interses- 
sion  and  had  a  chance  to  enjoy  such 
'intellectual'  courses  as  "Magic  in 
Chemistry,"  "Belly  Dancing," 
'Mountaineering,"  and  "Ballroom 
Dancing." 

....  You  returned  for  the 
spring  semester  and  vowed,  "Things 
Will  Be  Different  This  Spring.  I 
Will  Study  Less  and  Enjoy  Campus 
Life  More."  (And  who  were  you  kid- 
ding?) 

....  You  attended  Spree 
Day,  and  all  your  course  work  left 
your  mind. 

....  You  began  to  plan  your 
sufficiency,  iqp,  and  mqp:  you  even 
set  up  a  timetable  which  you  would 
later  find  difficult  to  follow. 

....  You  attended  Junior 
Prom  Weekend  and  suddenly  real- 
ized three  years  at  WPI  had  passed. 


....  You  finally  accepted 
the  fact  that  your  Sufficiency,  iqp, 
and  mqp  had  to  be  completed — 
SOON. 

....  You  began  to  prepare 
for  your  Competency  Exam,  and 
then  suddenly  Commencement 
drew  near. 

....  You  walked  across 
campus  for  the  last  time  with  your 
calssmates,  received  your  diploma, 
and  realized  your  undergraduate 
days  at  WPI  were  over. 

....  You  attended  your  first 
Homecoming  as  an  alumna,  and  fi- 
nally understood  the  meaning  of 
Homecoming. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Winter  1981/5 


Certainly  each  of  us  has  our 
own  individual  answer  to  the 
question  "What  Is  Home- 
coming?" Our  view  of  Homecoming 
may  depend  on  whether  we  are 
alumni,  faculty,  staff,  or  students  of 
WPI.  As  an  alumna,  I  feel  that 
Homecoming  is  a  time  to  meet  with 
many  friends  from  my  days  at  WPI 
and  reminisce  about  our  lives  here. 
For  me,  Homecoming  is  more 
than  a  deluge  of  activites  that  take 
place  from  Friday  to  Sunday  Each 
year,  the  anticipation  and  excite- 
ment of  Homecoming  begins  long 


before  October.  My  first  thoughts  of 
Homecoming  focus  on  the  many 
people  I  met  while  at  WPI,  and  the 
experiences  I  shared  with  them.  I 
think  of  the  valuable  friendships 
formed,  not  only  with  my  fellow 
studnts  but  also  with  administra- 
tors, faculty,  and  staff.  All  of  these 
people  gave  me  a  great  deal,  not  of 
what  they  have  but  of  what  they  are. 
Because  each  experience  shared  with 
these  people  had  its  own  special 
charm,  I  cherish  every  memory  and 
draw  joy  from  the  thought  of  every 
adventure. 


From  our  days  at  WPI,  all  of  us 
take  more  with  us  than  the  intellec- 
tual part  of  our  lives  here.  When  we 
meet  at  Homecoming,  we  recall  all 
the  academic  as  well  as  the  social 
bonds  we  shared.  We  talk  about 
keeping  in  touch  during  the  years  be- 
tween Homecomings,  and  many  of 
us  make  promises  to  see  each  other 
frequently  in  the  future.  Hope  we 
are  able  to  keep  these  promises. 

—  Patty  Graham  Flaherty,  '75 


6  /  Winter  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


I  M  1«  J  ■  ■■ 


"w 


\1 


M 


: 


■***$'■ 


v 


Anni  Autio,  a  junior  from  Nor- 
wood, Massachusetts,  works  part 
time  during  the  year  in  the  Alumni 
Office,  from  where  she  has  a  bird's 
eye  view  of  Homecoming  activities. 
She  offers  these  thoughts: 


Homecoming  ....  alumni 
returning  to  their  alma  ma- 
ter ...   .  football  game 
....  reunions  ....  rope  pull 
.   .   .   .  and  more.  Is  this  what  it  is 
all  about? 

Homecoming  is  a  weekend  full 
of  activities  for  both  alumni  and  stu- 
dents. For  those  who  are  involved  in 
the  preparation  of  any  activity  dur- 
ing the  weekend,  Homecoming  be- 
comes a  real  occasion — extensive 
planning,  suspense  as  the  weekend 
draws  near,  running  around  getting 
things  done,  and  finally  taking  part 
as  things  happen. 

When  it  finally  comes  together, 
Homecoming  is  really  a  time  to  re- 
member: picnic  groups  spread  out 
around  the  quadrangle  at  noontime 
on  Saturday,  the  Wedge  bustling 
with  activity  throughout  the  day 
with  alumni  registration,  road-race 
signup,  reunions,  a  pre-game  cele- 
bration party,  and  much  more. 


Being  a  junior  at  WPI,  I  have  ex- 
perienced two  previous  Homecom- 
ing weekends.  Freshman  year  I 
decided  to  go  home,  and  sophomore 
year  I  worked  at  the  registration 
desk.  It  was  only  then  that  I  realized 
Homecoming  was  not  just  a  semifor- 
mal  dance  on  Saturday  night;  it  is  a 
weekend  for  enjoyment!  This  year, 
Homecoming  was  more  meaningful 
because  I  had  a  chance  to  see  many 
of  the  activities  that  I  had  previously 
overlooked.  (And  I  even  found  out 
that,  yes,  WPI  does  have  a  football 
team!) 

—Anni  Autio,  '82 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Winter  1981/7 


Glee  Club  Recordings  Available 

The  WPI  Glee  Club,  which  enjoys  a  high  reputation  for  its  musicianship,  has,  over  the  past  decade,  toured 
and  performed  in  Europe,  England,  and  California.  It  has  also  made  a  number  of  recordings  which  have  been 
occasionally  available  to  students  and  alumni. 

Although  those  past  records  are  out  of  print,  the  Glee  Club  is  now  planning  to  distribute  tape  recordings 
of  their  work.  These  new  issues  will  be  available  either  on  cassette  or  reel-to-reel  tape.  The  sound  quality  is 
quite  good,  the  performance  level  high. 

Here  are  the  works  which  will  be  available: 


From  1970 

Two  Christmas  Carols  —  arr.  Lefevre 

1.  Quite  Pasteur  (The  stars  looked  down) 

2.  Entre  le  Boef  (Here  between  ox  and  ass 
so  calm) 

From  1972 

The  WPI  Glee  Club  with  the  Skidmoie  Col- 
lege Chorus,  Louis  Cunan  conducting, 
recorded  at  Skidmoie 

Mass  for  winds,  soloists,  and  chorus  — Igor 
Stravinsky 

Come  Again  Sweet  Love  — John  Dowland 
Soon  Ah  Will  Be  Done  — arr.  Dawson 
Er  est  ein  Kindike  (tenor  J.  J.  Homko) 

The  Tour  to  California 

WPI  Glee  Club  with  the  Wheelock  College 

Glee  Club 
Saints  Bound  for  Glory  — anon. 

From  1975 

The  Tour  to  England  recording 

WPI  Glee  Club  with  the  University  of  Massa- 
chusetts Brass  Choir,  recorded  at  Trinity 
Lutheran  Church,  Worcester 

Air  de  Trompette  (Walter  Chestnut,  trumpet) 
—  Giuseppe  Torelli 

Missa  Salve  Regina  (tenor  P.  Arcoma,  bari- 
tone R.  Cummings,  bass  C.  Skinner)  — 
Jean  Langlais 

Crucifixus  — Antonio  Lotti 

Ain'a  That  Good  News  — William  Dawson 

Sister  Mary  Wore  (baritone  C.  Skinner)  —  arr. 
Marshall  Bartholomew 

The  Baker's  Dozen: 

All  Kinds  of  Women  — Brachell 
Vive  1' amour  —  arr.  Shaw 
Done  Made  Mah  Vow-Whalon 
Good  Night  Little  Girl -Shepherd 
Skye  Boat  Song  (tenor  P.  Arcoma,  baritone  C. 
Skinner)  — Fenno  Heath 


From  1976 

WPI  Glee  Club  with  the  Smith  College  Glee 
Club,  Louis  Curran  conducting,  recorded 
in  Alden  Memorial  Auditorium,  WPI. 

Cantata  No.  106,  Gottes  Zeit  (God's  time  is 

the  best  time)  —  !.  S.  Bach 
Ave  Vernum  Corpus  — W.  A.  Mozart 
Sancta  Maria  (Iva  Dee  Hiatt  conducting)  — 

W.  A.  Mozart 
Keep   to   the   Middle   of   the   Road    —    arr. 

Bartholomew 

The  Baker's  Dozen: 

Hooda  Day  — arr.  Bartholomew 
Landloard  Fill  the  Flowing  Bowl  — arr.  Knox 
Where  Did  You  Prep  — arr.  Shepherd 
Charlie  (bass  W.  Davies)  — arr.  Knox 
Gonna  Build  a  Mountain  — Knox 

From  1977 

The  Tour  to  Germany  and  Austria  recording 

WPI  Glee  Club,  Louis  Curran  conducting: 

Drink   to  Me  Only   with  Thine  Eyes  — arr. 

Bartholomew 
Keep   in   the   Middle   of   the   Road 

Bartholomew 
Roll,   Jordan,   Roll   (bass  W.   Davis) 

Bartholomew  —  Curran 


arr. 


arr. 


WPI  Glee  Club  with  the  Regis  College  Glee 
Club 

Cantique  de  Jean  Racine  (Sheila  Vogt  con- 
ducting)—Faure 

Jubilate  Deo  (Sheila  Vogt  conducting)  — 
Peeters 

Saints  Bound  for  Heaven  (L.  Curran  conduct- 
ing) —  arr.  Dawson 

Every  Time  I  Feel  the  Spirit  (bass  R.  Vaz,  L. 
Curran  conducting)  — arr.  Dawson 

Exekiel  Saw  de  Wheel  (tenor  J.  Willemain, 
Sheila  Vogt  conducting) —arr.  Dawson 

Muss  I  Denn  (Sheila  Vogt  conducting)  —  tradi- 
tional German  folk  song 


WPI  Glee  Club  with  the  Regis  College  Glee 
Club,  Louis  Curran  conducting,  recorded 
in  Mechanics  Hall,  Worcester: 

Ecce  Enim  Ex  Hoc  Beatum,  from  the  Mag- 
nificat—J.  S.  Bach 

From  1979 

Let  Us  Break  Bread  Together— arr.  Heath 

The  Summer  Day  — Brahms 

Cantate  Domine  — Hassler 

Laura  Lee  — arr.  Jennings 

Steal  Away  — arr.  Bartholomew 

Wake  Freshman 

From  1980 

Inter-Collegiate  Musical  Council  Convention 
held  at  WPI 

Forget  Not  My  Law  (J.  Minasian  conducting) 

—  Effinger 

Kantata,  B.W.V.  21,  Ich  hatte  viel  Bekum- 
mernis  (WPI  Glee  Club  with  the  Regis 
College  Glee  Club,  Louis  Curran  conduct- 
ing)-J.  S.  Bach 

Three  Blake  Songs  (tenor  J.  Palmer)  — arr. 
Heath 

The  Heart  Worships  (tenor  W.  Guilfoile,  Jr.) 

—  Gustav  Hoist 

Yonder  ( tenor  J.  Palmer)  —  old  Russian  melody 
Black  Is  the  Color  of  My  True  Love's  Hair- 
anon. 
The  Stars  Brightly  Shining 
Wake  Freshman 


If  you  would  like  to  obtain  one  of  these  tapes,  please  return  the  coupon  below: 

Name:     

Address: 


I  am  interested  in  obtaining  recordings  of  the  following  works  as  performed  by  the 
WPI  Glee  Club  (please  indicate  year): 


Please  send  me  more  information  on 

price  and  availability. 

I  would  prefer  my  tapes  on 

□  cassette        □  reel-to-reel. 

Return  this  coupon  to: 

Louis  Curran,  director 

WPI  Glee  Club 

Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute 

Worcester,  MA  01609 


8  /  Winter  1981  /  The  WPI  foumal 


■  u.rt     i    ilHBnHUlllk    1MILBUJK1 


Sinkholes!? 


Bill  Murphy,  '22,  has  only  one  real  prob- 
lem these  days.  Sinkholes.  You'd  think 
that  an  80-year-old  Florida  resident 
would  be  rightfully  concerned  with  more 
frivolous  things,  like  playing  shuffle- 
board  or  catching  the  breezes  on  a  tropi- 
cal patio.  But  not  Bill! 

You  see,  Bill  Murphy  is  vice  presi- 
dent of  heavy  construction  at  Gilbane 
Mills  Jones,  and  currently  he's  supervis- 
ing a  major  project,  the  Orlando  Interna- 
tional Airport.  He's  concerned  with  all 
site  work,  which  includes  earthwork,  ca- 
nals, all  underground  piping,  bridges, 
tunnels,  roads,  parking  areas,  pile  driv- 
ing, airside  concrete  aprons,  taxiways, 
extensive  refueling  systems,  and  envi- 
ronmental control.  So  far,  there  have 
been  few  difficulties  with  construction. 
Not  much  rain.  Tough,  but  tolerable 
summer  heat.  "We  never  stopped  work," 
Bill  allows.  "Even  though  the  sinkholes 
have  been  kind  of  a  headache." 

Workers  at  the  sprawling  airport  site 
firmly  believe  that  Murphy  has  set  his 
foot  on  every  square  foot  of  ground  on 
the  property  at  least  once  during  con- 
struction. He  probably  has.  He's  "on 
duty"  daily  from  early  morning  into  late 
evening.  And  he  loves  every  working 
minute. 

"Working  is  my  life,"  he  declares.  "I 
never  wanted  anything  else.  When  I  was 
65,  nobody  mentioned  retirement,  in- 
cluding me." 

At  Orlando  International,  Gilbane 
Mills  Jones'  job  is  construction  manage- 
ment. Should  a  problem  crop  up, 
Murphy  gets  the  gist  of  it  on  the  tele- 
phone, then  rolls  off  in  his  jeep  to  help 
solve  it.  Basically,  in  such  an  assign- 
ment, he  is  responsible  for  the  managing 
of  the  work  listed  previously,  plus  the  es- 
timating of  the  cost  and  time  involved  in 
the  project. 


His  on-site  responsibilities  last  from 
Monday  through  Saturday.  On  Sundays, 
he  does  job-related  paper  work  at  home 
and  writes  many  letters  to  friends  and 
relatives. 

By  this  time,  Mrs.  Murphy  is  used 
to  her  husband's  full-time  schedule.  "All 
construction  wives  are  up  against  it  be- 
cause the  hours  are  so  irregular,"  Bill 
says. 

During  their  marriage,  he  and  his 
wife  have  had  only  short  vacations  in  the 
U.S.  and  Canada.  "Years  ago  we  took  a 
two-week  trip  to  Cuba,"  he  reveals.  "We 
have  a  house  in  New  England,  but  we 
don't  get  up  that  way  very  often." 
Murphy  has  gotten  around,  just  the 
same.  He  has  visited  five  continents  and 
17  countries  on  bidding  and  negotiating 
trips.  For  the  last  13  years,  he's  been  out 
of  the  bidding  business.  He's  too  busy 
getting  the  company  projects  completed, 
then  moving  on  to  the  next  job.  Just  prior 
to  going  to  Orlando,  for  example,  he 
worked  on  plants  in  New  York,  North 
Carolina,  and  Georgia. 

Bill  Gilbane,  a  college  champion 
boxer  and  president  of  the  Providence- 
based  firm,  believes  that  Murphy  "will 
keep  on  going  forever."  A  few  years  back 
it  was  suggested  that  Murphy  might  be 
better  off  financially  if  he  retired  and  did 
consulting  work,  Gilbane  says.  Tom 
Gilbane,  chairman  of  the  board  and  a  col- 
lege wrestling  champion,  voiced  the 
same  opinion.  Murphy's  response  was  to 
keep  right  on  the  job. 


Except  for  an  old  knee  injury  ("torn 
cartilage  horn  sliding  bases")  and  a  bout 
with  a  hernia,  which  Murphy,  of  course, 
won,  he  has  virtually  never  been  sick. 
He  claims  that  the  fact  that  he  doesn't 
smoke  or  drink,  harks  back  to  his  days  at 
WPI  when  he  played  baseball  and  basket- 
ball. 

That  trick  knee,  his  legacy  from 
baseball,  has  kept  him  in  construction 
all  these  years.  "Now  I  don't  want  to 
leave,"  he  says.  "Work  and  my  wife. 
That's  all  there  is.  I  don't  want  to  retire 
and  be  miserable  like  so  many  of  my 
friends." 

He  confides,  "Just  between  you  and 
me,  I  would  like  to  keep  working  as  long 
as  I  can  produce  for  the  company." 

It  looks  like  Gilbane  Mills  Jones  will 
be  having  its  current  vice  president  on 
the  payroll  for  some  time.  Murphy 
comes  from  hardy  stock.  His  uncle,  Wil- 
liam "Kitty"  Bransfield,  was  considered 
to  be  the  strongest  man  in  major  league 
baseball.  A  more  distant  relative,  Sir 
Edward  Bransfield,  was  knighted  by  the 
Queen  of  England  after  he  became  the 
first  white  man  to  set  foot  on  the  Antarc- 
tic Continent. 

With  that  kind  of  ancestry,  it's  no 
wonder  that  Bill  Murphy,  at  80,  can  still 
set  a  torrid  pace. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Winter  1981/9 


6hp 


People  who  live  in  glass  houses . . . 


Practically  nobody  gets  to  live  in  a 
glass  pyramid.  The  exception?  Aroon 
Shah,  '67,  of  Weston,  Mass.,  who  re- 
cently moved  into  a  glass  pyramid  with 
his  wife  and  two  children. 

Although  Shah's  pyramid  would  be 
dwarfed  beside  the  Great  Pyramid,  it  is  a 
massive  private  dwelling  according  to  to- 
day's standards.  Over  4,500  square  feet 
of  futuristic  living  space. 

Shah,  a  senior  energy  engineer  at  Po- 
laroid, got  together  with  Architect  John 
Hagan  a  couple  of  years  ago  to  plan  his 
dream  house.  "We  wanted  a  geo-solar 
house,"  Shah  explains.  "And  Hagan 
knows  how  to  design  a  home  that  relates 
to  the  people  who  live  in  it,  to  the  envi- 
ronment, and  to  the  earth." 

The  first  step  in  construction  was  to 
ram  earth  up  against  the  structure, 
giving  it  all  the  advantages  of  an  under- 
ground house  with  none  of  the  disadvan- 
tages. The  technique  allows  the  building 
to  take  advantage  of  two  natural  sources 
of  heat  and  insulation — earth  and  sun. 
(geo-solar) 


The  house,  which  is  filled  with  light 
and  views,  is  designed  so  that  one  always 
feels  on  ground  level.  Skylights  softly 
light  interior  rooms.  All  rooms  ring  the 
central  living  room  which  includes  a 
large  conversation  pit,  planters,  and  is 
topped  by  a  lofty  32-ft.  glass  pyramid. 
The  family  room,  kitchen,  four  bed- 
rooms, utility  room,  and  two  baths  are 
set  into  a  man-made  hill.  This  sunken 
arrangement  takes  advantage  of  the 
cheapest  insulation,  earth,  which  helps 
keep  the  house  at  a  steady  55  degrees. 
Active  and  passive  solar  systems  contrib- 
ute to  higher  temperatures. 

The  glass  pyramid,  itself  a  passive 
collector,  is  the  cornerstone  of  the  solar 
heating  system.  Wall  ducts  force  the  hot 
air  by  fans  into  the  floor  where  it  radiates 
heat  into  the  first  floor.  The  tile  and  con- 
crete floor  contains  two  inches  of  styro- 
foam  insulation  and  eight  inches  of  rocks 
to  trap  heated  air.  This  heating  system 
will  be  run  by  a  computer  (to  be  installed 
this  year)  which  also  will  open  the  vent 
at  the  top  of  the  pyramid  and  adjust  the 
giant  shades  that  line  the  expansive  glass 
area. 

A  back-up  system  of  a  gas  heater  and 
a  wood  stove  is  available  for  use  if  neces- 
sary. Heavily  insulated  walls  and  an 
earth-covered  roof  are  part  of  the  unique, 
energy-saving  design. 


Not  only  does  Shah's  geo-solar 
home  heat  and  cool  its  occupants,  it  will 
eventually  provide  them  with  year-round 
food.  Cold  frames  for  starting  garden 
plants  are  built  in  glass  enclosures  over 
the  front  and  back  entrances.  Besides  the 
cold  frames,  there  are  a  planter  fence  sur- 
rounding the  conversation  pit  and  five 
sunken  planters  big  enough  to  house  fu- 
ture exotic  trees.  There  are  auxiliary 
planters  on  the  second  floor. 

After  tending  plants  in  their  new 
home,  the  family  can  take  turns  relaxing 
in  their  whirlpool  bath,  which  has  a 
south-facing  view  and  a  150-square-foot 
window.  In  spite  of  this,  and  other  built- 
in  luxuries,  Shah  feels  that  the  house 
will  ultimately  cost  no  more  than  others 
in  his  area,  because  of  the  annual  savings 
in  maintenance  and  heat. 

Bottom  line:  The  Aroon  Shahs  sleep 
on  water(bed)  and  live  in  a  glass  house 
sunk  into  a  hill  and  set  on  stones.  They 
love  it. 


10  /  Winter  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


lBii'inri 


WPI  ALUMNI  ASSOCIATION 

Class  Secretaries  and  Representatives 


1914 

Secretary 

Ellwood  N.  Hennessy,  CLU 

The  Phoenix  Companies 

680  Mechanics  Bank  Tower 

Worcester,  MA  01608 

1916 

Secretary 

C.  Leroy  Storms 

135  West  6th  Avenue 

Roselle,  NJ  07203 

1918 

Secretary 

John  F.  Kyes,  Jr. 

40  Holden  Street 

Holden,MA01520 

1919 

Secretary 
Edwin  W.  Bemis 
10Dryden  Road 
Brick,  NJ  08723 

1920 

Secretary 

Dr.  Frederic  R.  Butler 
228  Burncoat  Street 
Worcester,  MA  01 606 

1921 

Secretary 

Robert  E.  Chapman 
26  High  Street 
Oakdale,  MA  01539 

1922 

Secretary 

Philip  H.  White 

164  Meadowbrook  Road 

Needham,  MA  02192 

1925 

Secretary 

Daniel  L.  Hussey 

81  Whitney  Road 

Short  Hills,  NJ  07078 

1926 

Secretary 

Archie  J.  Home 

1  Hunter  Circle 

Shrewsbury,  MA  01545 

1927 

Secretary 

William  M.  Rauha 

4  Whiffletree  Road 

West  Yarmouth,  MA  02673 

1928 

Secretary 

Gifford  T.  Cook 

Rt.  3  Box  294  Keyes  Perry  Acres 

Harpers  Ferry,  WV  25425 

1928 

Secretary 

Theodore  J  Englund 

70  Eastwood  Road 

Shrewsbury,  MA  01545 

1929 

Secretary 

Holbrook  L.  Horton 
120W.  Saddle  River  Road 
Saddle  River,  NJ  07458 

1930 

Secretary 
Carl  W  Backstrom 
113  Winifred  Avenue 
Worcester,  MA  01602 
1931 

Representative 
Oliver  R.  Underhill,  Jr. 
PO  Box  281 
Franconia,  NH  03580 
Secretary 
Edward  J  Bayon 
45  Pleasant  Street 
Holyoke,  MA  01040 


1932 

Representative 
Howard  P  Lekberg 
RFD  115  Main  Street 
East  Douglas,  MA  01516 

1933 

Representative 

Dr.  Raymond  B  Crawford 

RFD  Coldbrook  Road 

Oakham,  MA  01068 

Secretary 

Sumner  B  Sweetser 

100  Pine  Grove  Avenue 

Summit,  NJ  07901 

1934 

Representative 

Edward  R.  Markert 

1  Elf  Hill 

South  Amherst,  MA  01002 

Secretary 
Dwight  J.  Dwinell 
RFD#1  Box56H 
Orleans,  VT  05860 

1935 

Representative 

Plummer  Wiley 

2906  Silver  Hill  Avenue 

Baltimore,  MD  21207 

Secretary 

Raymond  F.  Starrett 

Continental  Country  Club 

Box  104 

Wildwood,  FL  32785 

1936 

Representative 

George  E.  Rocheford 

21  Dover  Road 

South  Natick,  MA  01760 

Secretary 

Harold  F.  Henrickson 

33  Chapin  Road 

Holden,  MA  01520 

1937 

Representative 
Gordon  F.  Crowther 
20  Bates  Street 
Hartford,  CT06114 
Secretary 
Richard  J.  Lyman 
10HillcrestRoad 
Medfield,  MA  02052 

1938 

Representative 
Francis  B.  Swenson 
599  Common  Street 
Walpole,  MA  02081 

1939 

Representative 
Samuel  B.  Kaplan 
Route  #2 
Bull  Hill  Road 
Woodstock,  CT  06281 

1940 

Representative 

Russell  A.  Lovell,  Jr. 

9  Jonathan  Lane 

Sandwich,  MA  02563 

Secretary 

Robert  E.  Dunklee,  Jr. 

Rocky  Hill  Road 

North  Scituate,  Rl  02857 

1941 

Secretary 
Russell  W.  Parks 
7250  Brill  Road 
Cincinnati,  OH  45243 


1943 

Representative 

Robert  S.  Schedin 

RFD1 

Brookfield,  MA  01506 

1944 

Representative 

Harrison  E.  Holbrook,  Jr. 

Holbrook  Drop  Forge  Inc. 

40  Rockdale  Street 

Worcester,  MA  01606 

Secretary 

JohnG.  Underhill 

6706  Barkworth  Drive 

Dallas,  TX  75248 

1946 

Secretar/es 
George  H.  Conley,  Jr. 
213  Stevens  Drive 
Pittsburgh,  PA  15236 

M.  Daniel  Lacedonia 

106  Ridge  Road 

East  Longmeadow,  MA  01028 

1947 

Representative 
Allan  Glazer 
20  Monadnock  Drive 
Shrewsbury,  MA  01545 

1948 

Representative 
Roger  M.  Cromack 
16  Burr  Farms  Road 
Westport,  CT  06880 

Secretary 

Paul  E.  Evans 

69  Clairmont  Street 

Longmeadow,  MA  01 106 

1949 

Representative 
Sidney  Madwed 
215  Crest  Terrace 
Fairfield,  CT  06432 
Secretary 
Howard  J.  Green 
32  Camp  Street 
Paxton,  MA  01612 

1950 

Representative 
Henry  S.  Coe,  Jr. 
3  Harwick  Road 
Wakefield,  MA  01880 

Secreetary 
Lester  J.  Reynolds,  Jr. 
15  Cherry  Lane 
Basking  Ridge,  NJ  07920 

1951 

Representative 
Duncan  W.  Munro 
59  Brigham  Street 
Northboro,  MA  01532 

Secretary 
Stanley  L.  Miller 
11  Ash  wood  Road 
Paxton,  MA  01612 

1952 

Representative 
John  M.  Tracy 
15  School  Street 
Northboro,  MA  01532 
Secretary 
Edward  G.  Samolis 
580  Roberts  Avenue 
Syracuse,  NY  13207 

1953 

Secretary 

Dr.  David  S.  Jenney 
109  Wilbrook  Road 
Stratford,  CT  06497 


1954 

Representative 
Edwin  Shivell 
64  Woodland  Drive 
Portsmouth,  Rl  02871 

Secretary 
Roger  R.  Osell 

18  Eliot  Road 
Lexington,  MA  02173 

1955 

Representative 
Edouard  S.  P.  Bouvier 
123  Beechwoods  Drive 
Madison,  CT  06443 
Secretary 

Kenneth  L  Wakeen 
344  Waterville  Road 
Avon,  CT  06001 

1956 

Representative 
John  M  McHugh 
431  Beacon  Hill  Drive 
Cheshire,  CT  06410 

Secretary 

Rev.  Paul  D.  Schoonmaker 
325  North  Lewis  Road 
Royersford,  PA  19468 

1957 

Representative 
Alex  C.  Paianou 
15  Birch  Tree  Road 
Foxboro,  MA  02035 

Secretary 

Dr.  Robert  A.  Yates 

Uniroyal  Inc. 

Elm  Street 

Naugatuck,  CT  06770 

1958 

Secretary 

Harry  R.  Rydstrom 

19  Altadena  Drive 
Pittsburgh,  PA  15228 

1959 

Representative 
Dr.  Joseph  D.  Bronzino 
Trinity  College 
Summit  Street 
Hartford,  CT  06106 

Secretary 

Dr.  Frederick  H.  Lutze,  Jr. 
1 10  Camelot  Court  NW 
Blacksburg,  VA  24060 

1960 

Representative 
John  W.  Biddle 
78  Highland  Street 
Holden,  MA  01 520 
Secretary 
Paul  W.  Bayliss 
170  Wyngate  Drive 
Barnngton,  IL  60010 

1961 

Secretary 
John  J.  Gabarro 
Harvard  Business  School 
Humphrey  House  23 
Boston,  MA  02163 

1962 

Representative 

Richard  J.  Di  Buono 

2  Royal  Crest  Drive 

Apt.  #10 

Marlboro,  MA  01752 

Secretary 

Harry  T.  Rapelje 

1313  Parma  Hilton  Road 

Hilton,  NY  14468 


1963 

Secretary 

Robert  E  Maynard,  Jr. 

8  Institute  Road 

North  Grafton,  MA  01536 

1964 

Representative 

Barry  J.  Kadets 

26  Harwich  Road 

Chestnut  Hill,  MA  02167 

Secretary 

Dr.  David  T.  Signori,  Jr. 

6613  Denny  Place 

McLean,  VA  22101 

1965 

Representative 
Patrick  T.  Moran 
100  Chester  Road 
Boxborough,  MA  01719 

Secretary 

John  P.  Jacobson 

308  Howard  Street 

Northborough,  MA  01532 

1966 

Secretary 

John  G.  Dyckman 

29SkiltonLn 

Burlington,  MA  01803 

1967 

Representative 
Douglas  W.  Klauber 
10  Alice  Drive 
Nashua,  NH  03060 
Secretary 
John  L  Kilguss 
5  Summershade  Circle 
Piscataway,  NJ  08854 

1968 

Representative 
William  J.  Rasku 
33  Mark  Bradford  Drive 
Holden,  MA  01520 
Secretary 
Charles  A  Griffin 
Rt.  4  Box  179 
Shreveport,  LA  71 107 

1969 

Secretary 

James  P.  Atkinson 

125  Pleasant  St.  Apt.  609 

Brooklme,  MA  02146 

1970 

ftepresentat/Ve 
Garrett  G.  Grahm 
150  Brookside  Road 
Needham,  MA  02 194 
Secretary 
F.  David  Ploss,  III 
28  Pocasset  Avenue 
Worcester,  MA  01606 

1971 

Secretary 
Vincent  T.  Pace 
1520McKean  Street 
Philadelphia,  PA  19145 

1972 

Representative 
Thomas  J.  Tracy 
68  Mendon  Street 
Uxbridge,  MA  01569 

Secretary 

John  A.  Woodward 

Rt.  1  Box  7516  Fawnbrook 

Hillsborough,  NC  27278 


The  WPIfoumal  /  Winter  1981/11 


I$)I2 


Mr.  and  Mrs.  J.  Francis  Granger  celebrated 
their  golden  wedding  anniversary  on  October 
22,  1980.  Mr.  Granger,  who  presently  serves  as 
secretary  of  the  Massachusetts  Highway  Asso- 
ciation, was  city  engineer  and  superintendent 
of  streets  in  Marlboro,  Mass.,  from  1928  to 
1960,  when  he  retired.  After  retirement,  he 
joined  the  private  engineering  firm  of  Granger, 
Thompson  and  Liston.  During  the  last  two 
decades  he  has  been  one  of  the  most  vigorous 
men  in  Massachusetts  in  the  advancement  of 
the  public  works  profession.  He  has  also  been 
very  active  in  Marlboro  civic  affairs.  Mrs. 
Granger,  a  Wellesley  graduate,  holds  a  mas- 
ter's degree  from  Columbia.  At  one  time  she 
was  supervisor  of  English  at  the  Horace  Mann 
School  at  Columbia  University.  Like  her  hus- 
band, she  has  been  active  in  Marlboro  civic  af- 
fairs. She  participated  in  the  founding  of  a 
local  Girl  Scout  troop  and  has  worked  with  the 
Red  Cross. 


1927 


Charles  Moore  has  swum  400  miles  in  Cleve- 
land's Cudell  Recreation  Center  pool  from  Oc- 
tober of  1971  to  June  of  1980  and  has  earned 
eight  Red  Cross  50-mile  certificates. 


1929 


Mary  and  Arthur  Gilbert  of  Louisville,  Ky.,  re- 
cently joined  14  other  couples  who  had  been 
married  for  over  50  years  at  a  celebration  held 
by  Senior  Citizens'  East.  The  combined  mar- 
ried years  of  those  present  was  869!  Mary 
Gilbert  recalled  that  she  and  Arthur  had  their 
first  appliances  when  President  Franklin 
Roosevelt  closed  the  banks. 


Arthur  Knight  is  now  living  in  St .  Johns- 
bury,  Vt.  Recently,  when  the  Fairbanks  Weigh- 
ing Division  held  its  150th  anniversary 
celebration  in  St.  Johnsbury,  the  Knights  had  a 
ringside  seat  for  the  parade  at  their  new  ad- 
dress. Fred  Baldwin  and  his  wife,  Millie, 
joined  the  Knights  for  the  festivities.  Fred  took 
part  in  the  100th  Fairbanks  celebration  50 
years  ago. 

Fred  McGowan  reports  that  after  moving 
to  Florida  for  his  health  following  an  auto  acci- 
dent three  years  ago,  he  is  now  back  in  Con- 
necticut, at  Heritage  Village  in  Southbury.  He 
and  his  wife,  Dorothy,  were  disappointed  in 
Florida,  "so  after  a  year  of  too  much  warmth, 
and  not  enough  to  do,"  they  sold  their  house 
and  came  right  back  to  "an  ideal  year-round 
climate."  Fred  continues  to  collect  old  Ameri- 
can prints  and  catalogs  having  to  do  with  early 
manufacturing  in  the  U.S.  He  would  welcome 
hearing  from  others  in  this  field.  His  address  is 
563  D  Heritage  Village,  Southbury,  CT  06488. 


1930 


Ed  Delano  says  that  he  now  has  a  new  time 
trial  bike  which  weighs  only  19  pounds. 
Where  to  next,  Ed? 

Harold  Hart  writes  from  Lake  Monte- 
zuma (I  like  the  name)  in  Arizona  that  he  was 
sorry  he  could  not  make  the  50th  reunion.  He 
walks  a  mile  or  two  every  day,  but  would  not 
compete  with  Delano  on  the  bike.  His  garden 
and  taking  care  of  the  house  keep  him  busy. 

Ray  Lewis  wrote  some  time  ago  that  he 
sure  enjoyed  seeing  all  the  classmates  at  the 
50th.  After  the  banquet  Friday  evening,  they 
left  for  Wellesley  where  his  wife  also  had  a  re- 
union. They  spent  part  of  last  summer  at  Lake 
Sunapee,  N.H. 

Milton  Warner  has  many  outside  inter- 
ests, including  tutoring  two  recently-arrived 
Vietnamese  immigrants  in  the  English  lan- 
guage and  serving  on  the  maintenance  com- 
mittee of  the  Unitarian  Universalist 
Fellowship  of  Evansville,  Indiana.  Marge  and 
he  also  teach  a  Sunday  School  class  for  junior 
and  senior  high  school  students.  In  October 
his  first  grandchild,  Teresa  Allison  Watts,  was 
born  to  his  daughter,  Sally,  and  son-in-law,  Ri- 
chard Watts.  Dick  is  an  actuary  with  the  ms  in 
Washington,  D.C.,  and  Sally  is  an  attorney 
with  the  Department  of  Housing  and  Urban 
Development.  In  March,  the  Warners  attended 
the  marriage  of  their  older  daughter,  Dorothy, 
to  Lee  Charles  Robbins.  Lee  works  as  an  inves- 
tigator for  the  Department  of  Human  Services 
in  San  Francisco  and  Dorothy  is  an  adjudicator 
for  the  Veterans  Administration  there. 


1931 


Idof  Anderson,  Jr.  writes:  "Starting  my  tenth 
year  of  retirement  here  on  Cape  Cod.  Enjoy 
swimming  from  May  30th  to  nearly  Novem- 
ber 1st.  I  just  seem  to  be  so  busy  doing  noth- 
ing, that  I  don't  have  time  to  do  anything." 

The  Bob  Barretts  have  just  bought  a  con- 
dominium in  Longwood,  Florida,  where  they 
plan  to  spend  most  of  the  winter  months. 
They  are  located  on  the  shore  of  Lake  Winni- 
pesaukee  in  Laconia  during  the  summer. 
While  in  New  Hampshire,  they  are  within  15 
miles  of  their  whole  family,  including  five 
grandchildren.  "There  is  seldom  a  dull  mo- 
ment!" Recently,  Bob  and  Noriene  took  a  trip 
to  the  Far  East,  stopping  off  to  see  Red  Sage  in 
California.  Because  of  unsettled  world  condi- 
tions, they  feel  that  that  trip  was  probably 
their  last  outside  of  the  U.S. 

Ed  Bayon  and  his  wife,  Ruth,  are  looking 
ahead  to  celebrating  their  50th  wedding  anni- 
versary in  September.  They  have  two  daugh- 
ters, and  nine  grandchildren  (13  to  22  years), 
six  of  whom  are  currently  in  college.  One  boy 
is  studying  civil  engineering.  A  year  ago,  Ed 
left  the  management  of  Tighe  &  Bond/SCI  to 
his  partner  and  he  is  now  "working  into  retire- 
ment" as  a  consultant  to  the  firm.  Five  out  of 
the  34  graduate  engineers  on  staff  are  WPI 
graduates,  two  of  whom  serve  as  assistant 
chief  engineers.  Ed  had  the  pleasure  of  renew- 
ing a  friendship  developed  at  Tech  almost  50 
years  ago  when  he  attended  the  Boston 
College-Navy  football  game  this  fall  with 
Frank  "Champ"  Blouin,  '32.  Champ  is  a  re- 
tired U.S.  Navy  vice  admiral  now  living  in 
Washington,  D.C.,  after  an  exciting  and  chal- 
lenging career  in  the  service  of  his  country. 

Dud  Chaffee  writes  that  he  is  currently 
retired  in  Greensboro,  N.C.,  after  having  been 
in  charge  of  operations,  maintenance,  engi- 
neering, and  planning  on  college  campuses 
throughout  the  east  coast  during  his  career.  He 
was  associated  with  Mount  Holyoke,  Spring- 
field, Middlebury,  St.  Lawrence,  and  finally 
the  University  of  North  Carolina,  from  which 
he  retired.  He  is  an  active  golfer  and  stamp  col- 
lector. Also,  he  was  active  in  the  fund-raising 
drive  for  the  class  50th  reunion  gift. 

Ted  Coe,  who  lives  in  Vermont,  has  pur- 
chased six  acres  of  ocean  front  and  tidewater 
(1000'  deep  water,  600'  tidewater)  in 
Boothbay,  Maine.  Having  decided  not  to  build, 
he  considers  the  land  as  a  good  investment  be- 
cause there  is  not  much  property  of  this  type 
left  in  Maine.  Formerly  with  Farrel  Co.,  he  has 
been  retired  for  15  years. 

Trustee  Emeritus  Al  Demont  writes  that 
he  and  Phyllis  have  been  busy  managing  two 
houses  and  trying  to  sell  one.  On  Labor  Day 
weekend  they  attended  her  daughter's  wed- 
ding in  Boulder.  His  daughter  Diane  has  a  new 
baby  boy  named  Jordan  Albert  Kapp,  who  was 
christened  at  his  church  during  its  anniver- 
sary. The  Demonts  celebrate  their  first  wed- 
ding anniversary  on  December  29th.  Al 
belongs  to  the  '"70"  National  Ski  Club.  Last 


12  /  Winter  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


J 


year,  he  was  the  principal  agent  in  selling  a  ski 
lodge  at  Smuggler's  Notch,  "where  (we)  four 
couples  held  a  happy  ten-year  partnership  be- 
fore the  old  gang  just  moved  too  far  away."  Ac- 
tive in  his  church,  he  has  completed  two 
years'  service  as  senior  elder,  the  highest  lay- 
man's office.  After  retiring  from  ge  in  1973,  on 
two  occasions  he  was  drafted  to  rim  the 
Schenectady  County  Community  Co-op  Pro- 
gram. 

Warren  'Bun'  Doubleday  and  his  wife,  Si- 
grid,  have  a  retirement  home  not  far  horn  Dot 
and  Paul  Fittz  in  Orange,  Mass.  After  Bun  re- 
tired as  a  Civil  Service  employee  of  the  Air 
Force  in  1972,  they  traveled  for  a  while,  but 
have  decided  that  "it  is  easier  to  stay  at 
home."  They  make  maple  syrup,  cut  fire- 
wood, mow  the  lawn,  and  shovel  snow.  The 
Doubledays  have  three  daughters  and  nine 
grandchildren  (two  girls,  seven  boys|.  "We  can 
take  care  of  a  pretty  good-sized  turkey  at 
Thanksgiving." 

Len  Dunn  is  recovering  from  a  severe 
stroke  that  left  him  hospitalized  from  Febru- 
ary of  1979  to  January  of  1980.  He  says,  "My 
wife,  Audrie,  diligently  looks  after  me,  but  it's 
quite  a  task."  Len  is  located  at  St.  Lambert, 
Quebec,  Canada. 

Richard  Fairbanks,  who  is  retired  from 
government  service  writes:  "Employed  by 
naca  (now  nasa);  caa  (now  faa);  and  the  Air 
Force."  He  and  Viola  have  been  married  48 
years  and  have  two  daughters  and  three  grand- 
sons. 

Fred  Farrar  has  three  good  reasons  for 
planning  to  attend  reunion.  Not  only  will  Fred 
be  celebrating  his  50th,  his  son,  Robert,  '56, 
will  be  on  hand  for  his  25th,  while  his  grand- 
son, Daniel,  is  a  member  of  the  Class  of  1984. 

Also  looking  ahead  to  the  50th,  is  John 
Fletcher.  He  and  Arlene,  his  wife  of  44  years, 
are  enjoying  retirement  in  South  Dennis  on 
Cape  Cod,  where  they  have  resided  for  nearly 
eight  years.  "We  do  what  we  want,  when  and 
if  we  want  to."  When  the  Hilt  Fishers,  '30,  get 
to  the  Cape,  they  usually  visit  the  Fletchers. 
John's  last  job  was  with  Bryant  Electric,  a  divi- 
sion of  Westinghouse  in  Bridgeport,  Conn. 
Henry  Friel  holds  the  post  of  product 
manager  at  Wire  Mesh  Products  in  York,  Pa. 

Wally  Gove,  local  coordinator  for  the  50th 
reunion,  attended  the  reunion  workshop  on 
Oct.  4th. 

George  Hansen's  son,  who  is  42,  hiked 
the  Appalachian  Trail  in  October.  George  re- 
tired in  1973  from  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft. 
Presently,  he  lives  in  a  house  he  built  for  re- 
tirement. It  is  located  in  West  Willington, 
Conn.,  on  a  paved  road,  surrounded  by  woods. 

Until  last  year,  Edwin  Haskell  served  as 
part-time  chief  designer  for  Chandler  Machine 
Co.  Previously,  he  retired  from  GenRad, 
Bolton,  Mass.  The  Haskells  have  three  chil- 
dren and  three  grandchildren.  They  have  re- 
tired to  a  "lovely  adult  mobile  home  park"  in 
Concord,  N.H.  They  have  gardens  and  a  yard 
to  care  for,  and  square  dance  twice  a  week. 
"Play  in  a  senior  citizens'  orchestra  occasion- 
ally." 


Golf  and  oil  painting  are  hobbies  enjoyed 
by  Frederic  Holmes.  In  1972,  he  retired  from 
Bird  Machine  Co.  following  25  years  of  serv- 
ice. He  was  a  sales  engineer  and  consultant  for 
the  mid- West  area  for  the  firm,  which  manu- 
factures paper-making  machinery  and  centri- 
fugal equipment.  He  has  two  sons  and  five 
grandchildren. 

Trescott  "Tres"  Larchar,  Sr.,  who  lives 
alone  says,  "A  major  effort  goes  into  cooking. 
I'm  not  a  gourmet  cook,  but  I'm  willing  to  try 
something  new."  He  claims  he  maintains  a 
nearly  constant  weight.  Since  retiring  from 
Olin  several  years  ago,  he's  done  some  con- 
sulting. He  is  active  with  the  Masons,  the  Sen- 
ior Citizens'  Group,  and  he  attends  a  few 
technical  meetings.  Travel  and  music  are 
other  interests. 

Irving  Newcomb  ran  his  own  cabinet 
shop  until  he  retired  in  1974.  He  had  previ- 
ously retired  from  ge.  In  February,  he  and  his 
wife  celebrate  their  48th  wedding  anniversary. 
They  have  three  children,  four  grandchildren, 
and  are  located  in  Center  Bamstead,  N.H. 
Albert  Palm  writes:  "We  live  22  miles 
east  of  Los  Angeles  and  from  our  hillside  home 
beneath  Mount  Wilson  Observatory  we  can 
see  up  and  down  the  San  Gabriel  Valley  as  far 
away  as  Pasadena  and  the  Rose  Bowl."  In 
1975,  he  was  commended  by  the  chief  of  po- 
lice for  stopping  a  runaway  auto  by  deliber- 
ately ramming  it  with  his  own  car.  Besides  his 
bs,  he  holds  an  ms  from  WPI.  During  his 
career,  he  has  been  employed  by  the  former 
Worcester  Gas  Light  Co.,  American  Steel  & 
Wire,  and  he  was  a  partner  in  Stidsen  &  Palm 
Co.  From  1944  to  1960  he  was  a  sales  engineer 
in  the  abrasives  division  of  Norton  Co.  From 
1960,  until  he  retired  in  1974,  he  was  with 
A. P.  deSartno  &  Son,  Inc.,  Phoenixville,  Pa. 
The  Palms'  son,  Robert,  graduated  from  WPI 
in  1964.  They  also  have  a  daughter  and  four 
grandchildren. 

Good  thing  Phil  Pierce  retired!  He  doesn't 
have  enough  time  for  work.  In  "retirement", 
he  teaches  folk  dancing,  and  calls  square 
dances.  He  keeps  improving  his  house  and 
yard,  serves  as  church  treasurer,  still  "walks" 
18  holes  of  golf  several  times  a  week,  bowls, 
and  drives  for  "Meals  on  Wheels."  Once  a 
year,  the  Pierces  travel  (Europe,  etc.),  but  are 
always  glad  to  return  home  to  Monterey, 
Calif.  "Life  is  great.  No  snow.  No  high  heat." 
Phil  taught  mathematics  at  the  Navy  Post- 
graduate School  in  Monterey  for  28  years.  He 
and  Irma  have  three  sons,  three  granddaugh- 
ters, and  two  grandsons. 

C.F.  "Red"  Sage  says,  "Hope  to  see  you 
all  next  June  in  Worcester!"  He  admits  his  red 
hair  is  now  gray,  but  declares  it  is  still  quite  a 
thatch.  Red  and  Val's  son,  Dick,  has  a  phc  and 
is  assistant  curator  in  the  Veterbrate  Zoology 
Museum,  University  of  California  at  Berkeley. 
Tony  and  Mike  farm,  make  cabinets,  and  play 
golf  in  Oregon.  ("Hope  to  visit  them  Thanks- 
giving.") Since  1970,  the  Sages  have  managed 
Pea  Soup  Andersen's  Inn  in  Buellton,  Calif. 
They've  seen  it  grow  from  41  to  97  units.  "Too 
busy  to  retire."  However,  if  the  spirit  moves 
them,  they  might  go  into  a  nearby  mobile 
home. 


Early  in  the  year,  Mike  Sodano  had  some 
surgery  done  to  correct  poor  circulation.  The 
right  carotid  artery  was  cleansed,  then  a  quad- 
ruple by-pass  was  performed.  "Haven't  felt  so 
good  in  a  long  time."  In  1970,  he  retired  from 
ge,  and  after  staying  in  Japan  for  two  years,  he 
returned  to  Scottsdale.  Daughter  Carole  is  at 
the  University  of  the  Pacific  and  John  at  the 
Art  Center  College  of  Design  in  Pasadena. 
Mike  swims,  and  is  a  licensed  ham  radio  oper- 
ator. So  far,  he's  made  over  100  contacts  all 
over  the  U.S.A. 

After  32  years,  Hurant  Tashjian  continues 
operating  his  hardware  business,  Bay  State 
Paint  &  Hardware  Co.,  in  Worcester.  "No 
plans  for  retirement."  The  Tashjians  have  two 
daughters.  Emily  is  engaged  and  Gloria  is  an 
assistant  professor  of  mathematics  at  Merri- 
mack College  in  Andover,  Mass.  Two  years 
ago,  while  Gloria  was  an  exchange  scientist  at 
the  Mathematics  Institute,  Czechoslovak 
Academy  of  Science,  Prague,  her  parents  vis- 
ited her. 

Bob  Terrill  spent  32  years  as  a  commis- 
sioned officer  in  the  Armed  Forces.  He  gradu- 
ated from  the  U.S.  Military  Academy  andthen 
from  flying  school  at  San  Antonio.  "I  was  in 
the  Air  Force  from  that  time  on."  He  partici- 
pated in  World  War  II  and  the  Korean  war,  as  a 
colonel  and  as  a  brigadier  general,  respectively. 
In  1964,  he  retired  from  the  service  as  a  lieu- 
tenant general.  The  Terrills  were  slated  to  visit 
their  daughter  and  two  grandsons  in  California 
over  Thanksgiving. 

Although  retired,  Fran  Townsend  claims, 
"I  still  can't  find  time  to  do  all  the  things  I 
have  ahead  of  me."  He  hopes  to  get  his  eye  sit- 
uation cleared  up  before  trie  50th.  The  Town- 
sends,  who  live  on  the  Cape  at  Cotuit,  Mass., 
have  two  daughters,  a  son,  and  eight  grand- 
children. 

Carroll  Whitaker  serves  as  cost  depart- 
ment manager  for  the  Ames  Textile  Corpora- 
tion of  Lowell,  Mass.,  where  he  has  been 
employed  for  45  years.  "The  work  is  varied 
and  very  interesting,"  he  says.  For  21  years,  he 
and  Eleanor  have  frequently  square  danced 
with  various  groups  and  feel  that  "this  won- 
derful recreation  has  done  a  great  deal  to  keep 
us  in  good  health." 

In  1974,  Robert  Williamson  retired  from 
Union  Carbide  after  39  years.  He  was  in  sales, 
production,  and  industrial  engineering  in  the 
Consumer  Products  Division  (Eveready).  The 
Williamsons  celebrate  their  40th  anniversary 
in  February.  They  like  to  play  contract  bridge 
every  week  with  two  groups  of  retired  persons. 
Their  daughter  and  two  grandchildren  live  in 
Albuquerque.  Judy  is  a  registered  artist  (water 
color  and  acrylic)  and  is  working  on  her  mas- 
ter's degree  in  teaching.  Williamson  does 
"kitchen  table"  model  railroading  at  home. 
He  is  treasurer  of  a  sizeable  model  railroad 
club. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Wintei  1981  /  13 


1932 


1938 


►  Married:  Paul  E.  Nelson  and  Mrs.  Marion  E. 
Francis  in  Barnet  Center,  Vermont  on  Septem- 
ber 21,  1980.  The  Nelsons  currently  live  in 
Shaftsbury. 


1934 


At  the  winter  annual  meeting  of  the  asme  held 
in  November  in  Chicago,  Allan  Catheron  was 
posthumously  awarded  a  Century  Medallion. 
Al,  who  passed  away  last  June,  was  a  fellow  of 
the  asme.  He  was  a  retired  system  research  en- 
gineer for  the  Foxboro  Co. 

Charles  McElroy,  one  of  WPI's  top  "sen- 
ior" swimmers,  was  invited  to  attend  the 
'Sports  Legends"  banquet  which  was  held  in 
Lowell,  Mass.  in  October  to  honor  great  ath- 
letes of  the  past. 

Dr.  Elijah  Romanoff  serves  as  a  program 
director  for  the  National  Science  Foundation 
in  Washington,  D.C. 


1937 


Lawrence  Barber  retired  last  January  horn  A. 
C.  Lawrence  Leather  Company,  Inc,  but  con- 
tinues to  be  active  in  an  advisory  capacity. 
Joining  A.  C.  Lawrence  after  graduation,  he 
stayed  on  during  his  entire  career.  In  recent 
years  he  has  had  responsibility  for  production 
at  all  of  the  company's  locations,  horn  Maine 
to  North  Carolina.  At  its  annual  convention  in 
June,  the  American  Leather  Chemists  Associa- 
tion named  Barber  president-elect.  In  1976,  he 
was  one  of  a  small  group  of  associates  within 
the  company  which  purchased  A.  C.  Lawrence 
from  Swift  and  Company.  Soon  after,  he  relo- 
cated his  headquarters  to  Waynesville,  N.C., 
where  he  and  his  wife  Martha  now  reside. 
World  travel  has  been  extensive.  In  August  he 
toured  China,  giving  a  series  of  lectures  on 
leather  manufacturing  to  Chinese  tanners  and 
shoe  manufacturers. 

In  July,  Vin  Johnson  retired  as  manager  of 
Michigan  operations  for  Marsh  &  McLennan 
after  28  years  of  service.  The  Johnsons  took  a 
five-week  trip  through  Canada  and  New  Eng- 
land in  their  motor  home  last  summer,  and 
spent  a  couple  of  weeks  on  Cape  Cod.  Vin 
writes:  "We'll  be  in  Key  Biscayne  for  the  win- 
ter and  then  in  the  spring  we'll  take  a  trip  to 
the  West  coast,  go  on  up  to  Vancouver,  then  re- 
turn to  Detroit." 


Francis  Jenkins  serves  as  a  mechanical  engi- 
neer at  United  Engineers  in  Holcomb,  Kansas. 


1939 


Oiva  Kama  is  deputy  vice  president  of  project 
engineering  at  International  Coal  Refining 
Company,  Allentown,  Pa. 

David  McEwan  is  presently  plant  man- 
ager at  Cynthiana  Screw  Corp.,  a  division  of 
VSI  Corp.  He  is  located  in  Cynthiana,  Ky. 

Norman  Packard  is  manager  of  engineer- 
ing at  Nautilus/VA  in  Independence,  Va. 

Norton  Company,  Worcester,  has  ap- 
pointed Harold  White  as  vice  president  and 
general  manager  of  the  Coated  Abrasive  Divi- 
sion in  the  United  States.  Previously  he  was 
vice  president  and  general  manager  of  the 
company's  Organic  Grinding  Wheel  Division. 
Also,  he  was  responsible  for  Norton's  abra- 
sives business  in  Canada.  Before  his  appoint- 
ment to  that  post  in  1979,  he  had  served  in 
England  as  vice  president  of  abrasive  opera- 
tions in  Northern  Europe.  He  has  been  with 
Norton  since  1946. 


1940 


Bruce  Boyd,  who  entered  WPI  after  nine  years 
with  Westinghouse  writes:  "At  72, 1  may  be 
the  oldest  member  of  the  Class  of  1940."  He 
ultimately  retired  from  Westinghouse  after  43 
years  of  service.  His  first  job  was  with  the 
early  warning  radar  that  picked  up  Japanese 
airplanes  130  miles  off  Oahu  on  the  morning 
of  Dec.  7,  1941.  "No  one  believed  it."  Boyd 
holds  six  U.S.  patents.  He  and  his  wife  Louise 
chose  to  stay  in  Maryland  following  his  retire- 
ment to  be  near  their  family.  Boyd  continues 
his  amateur  radio  hobby,  which  he  started  in 
1921. 

Lois  and  Bill  Brooks  finally  arrived  home 
in  Scottsdale,  Arizona  following  their  40th  re- 
union. After  leaving  Worcester,  they  visited 
friends  on  the  way  back,  stopping  at  Cape 
Cod,  Hartford,  Morristown,  N.J.,  Knoxville, 
Tenn.,  Lake  George,  N.Y.,  among  other  places. 
They  traveled  6600  miles  going  and  coming  to 
reunion.  It  was  Bill's  first  time  back  since 
graduation. 

Albert  Howell  is  now  employed  as  a 
mathematical  analysis  engineer  at  Mack 
Trucks,  Inc.  in  Allentown,  Pa.  In  1977  he  un- 
derwent heart  surgery.  Son  Jack  is  a  soap 
maker  in  Denver;  Philip  a  motorcycle  shop 
owner.  Daughter  Olivia  is  a  teacher; 
Elizabeth,  an  executive  secretary.  Howell  is  in- 
terested in  church  work  and  Common  Cause. 


Harding  Jenkins  is  an  enthusiastic  resi- 
dent of  Venice,  Fla,  and  enjoys  travel,  tennis, 
and  the  beach.  Retired  from  American 
Optical,  where  he  was  corporate  vice  presi- 
dent, he  subsequently  was  associated  with 
i.e.s.c.  in  Manila,  where  he  helped  contribute 
know-how  in  a  developing  area.  He  was  a  con- 
sultant to  Mount  Holyoke  College  horn  1975 
to  1977. 

Golf,  swimming,  bowling,  and  fishing  are 
some  of  Fritz  Johanson's  activities.  He's  had 
three  holes-in-one  and  won  a  club  champion- 
ship trophy.  His  wife  Majken  is  a  good  golfer, 
too,  and  likes  bowling,  dancing,  and  traveling. 
Still  with  Warner  &  Swasey  as  eastern  export 
district  manager,  Johanson  has  about  a  million 
flying  miles  under  his  belt.  He's  been  in 
Russia  three  times,  and  as  a  member  of  a  U.S. 
government  delegation  he  visited  Moscow, 
Leningrad,  and  Kiev.  He  attended  WPI's  Eve- 
ning Graduate  School  and  the  Advanced  Man- 
agement Program  at  Harvard  Business  School. 
He's  been  involved  with  the  Worcester  Area 
Council  of  Churches. 

After  a  four-month  leave  of  absence  to  fin- 
ish a  shell  house  in  Vermont,  Rolfe  Johnson  is 
now  back  at  work  constructing  a  plastics  facil- 
ity for  ge  in  Pittsfield.  His  wife,  Margaret,  is 
director  of  activities  at  a  Brattleboro  (Vt.)  nurs- 
ing home.  Johnson  met  Margaret  on  a  boat  trip 
from  the  Isle  of  Man  to  Liverpool,  and  they 
were  married  in  Cheshire.  They  toured  Europe 
on  their  bmw  750.  In  the  past  ten  years,  John- 
son has  spent  much  of  his  time  in  Scotland, 
Holland,  and  Israel  on  construction  projects. 
While  in  Israel,  he  narrowly  missed  three  ter- 
rorist raids. 

In  March,  Benedict  Kaveckas  joined  Wang 
Laboratories  in  Tewksbury,  Mass.  as  a  senior 
manufacturing  engineer.  He  likes  to  repair 
autos  and  appliances. 

P.  Warren  Keating  is  a  member  of  the  Pur- 
suing Committee,  Worcester  Society  of  Mu- 
tual Aid  in  Detecting  Thieves. 

Dr.  Stanley  Kimball  currently  holds  the 
position  of  chairman  of  the  department  of  radi- 
ology and  nuclear  medicine  at  Richmond 
Heights  General  Hospital  in  Cleveland.  He 
has  been  chief  of  staff  and  is  now  vice  presi- 
dent for  a  second  time.  He  is  certified  by  the 
American  Osteopathic  Board  of  Radiology. 
Kimball  will  fish  anywhere,  and  has  already 
tried  his  luck  from  the  Yukon  River  to  Guade- 
lupe.  He  has  six  children  and  seven  vehicles, 
including  two  diesels. 

The  Arthur  Koerbers  have  a  retirement 
Tyrolean  chalet  overlooking  the  Sierras  at 
Lake  Tahoe.  They  are  employed  part  time  as 
tour  guides  showing  local  historic  sites,  and 
Arthur  drives  a  snow  plow  in  winter.  Hobbies 
include  hiking,  skiing,  and  model  railroading. 
Previously,  Koerber  had  been  a  camp  ranger  for 
the  Girl  Scouts,  an  organization  he  and  his 
wife  were  associated  with  for  years.  For  25 
years  he  was  with  ge  in  Pittsfield,  Mass.  spe- 
cializing in  lightning  arrestor  design.  He  was 
president  of  the  Green  Mountain  Club,  chair- 
man of  the  New  England  Trails  Conference, 
and  vice  chairman  of  the  Appalachian  Trail 
Conference. 


14  /  Winter  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


1  a  in  ■  ■  1 


David  Kuniholm  reports  that  he  is  still 
"lead  soloist"  at  Kuniholm  Associates  in  Pe- 
tersham, Mass. 

Kenneth  McClure  is  the  retired  chairman 
of  K.H.  McClure  &Co.,  Inc.,  Stamford,  Conn. 
Presently,  he  resides  in  Charlottesville,  Va. 

Since  retiring  as  chief  of  design  from 
Hamilton  Division  of  United  Technologies, 
Donald  Ramaker  has  done  some  consulting  for 
utc.  After  hours,  he's  into  fishing,  hiking,  and 
antiques.  Jean,  his  wife,  is  an  antiques  dealer. 
Ramaker,  who  had  a  37-year  career  at  Hamil- 
ton Standard,  has  two  sons  and  a  daughter.   ' 

His  R&L  Manufacturing  Co.  is  busy  pro- 
ducing a  wide  variety  of  urethane  products, 
says  Milton  Ross,  president  of  the  California 
firm  he  started  during  "the  great  recession"  of 
1974.  He  holds  six  U.S.  patents  and  has  six 
children.  Outside  interests  include  flying, 
earthworm  raising,  scouting,  and  Little 
League. 

Raymond  Shlora  and  his  wife,  Clare,  en- 
joy many  trips  to  Europe.  He  continues  as 
president  of  H.H.  Brown  Shoe  Co.,  Inc.,  New 
York  City.  As  president  of  the  Brown  Canadian 
operation,  a  post  he  still  holds,  he  lived  for 
nearly  20  years  in  Montreal  at  one  time.  Cur- 
rently, Shlora  also  serves  as  chairman  of  Igloo 
Import  and  Supply  Co.,  Ste.  Agathe,  Quebec. 


1941 


Dr.  Alfred  Winslow  serves  as  a  senior  chemist 
at  Borden  Chemical  Co.  in  Louisville,  Ky. 


1942 


Allan  Anderson  is  manager  of  market  planning 
and  development  at  Bath  Iron  Works  in 
Maine. 

Formerly  with  Westinghouse  Electric 
Co.,  Hollywood,  Calif.,  Ralph  Piper  is  now  re- 
tired and  living  in  Sonoma. 

Russell  Proctor  serves  as  director  of  pro- 
jects at  Procon,  Inc.,  in  Houston,  Texas. 

Samuel  Williams,  Jr.  has  been  elected 
chairman  at  O'Brien  &  Gere  Engineers.  He 
joined  the  Syracuse  company  in  1956,  and  has 
been  president  since  the  firm  was  incorporated 
in  1971.  Under  his  direction,  the  company  has 
grown  from  180  employees  and  $4.8  million 
in  sales  in  1971  to  over  300  employees  and 
sales  totaling  $12.3  million  in  1979.  During 
that  time,  the  firm  has  established  offices  in 
Philadelphia,  Boston,  Washington,  D.C.,  St. 
Louis,  White  Plains  and  New  York  City,  ad- 
ding to  several  previously  established  offices. 
Williams  is  also  a  trustee  of  Onondaga  Savings 
Bank  and  the  Rescue  Mission  Alliance.  He  is  a 
director  of  the  Greater  Syracuse  Chamber  of 
Commerce,  the  Metropolitan  Development 
Association  and  the  Economic  Development 
Corp.  Besides  his  WPI  degree,  he  has  another 
from  Harvard  University. 


1943 


Everett  Ambrose  holds  the  post  of  senior  staff 
engineer  in  the  Continental  Group  in  Avon, 
Conn. 

Dr.  Carroll  Bennett,  the  acting  head  of  the 
chemical  engineering  department  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Connecticut,  has  been  named  the  re- 
cipient of  the  $2,000  Warren  K.  Lewis  Award 
from  the  American  Institute  of  Chemical  En- 
gineers. He  received  the  award  in  November  at 
the  Institute's  annual  meeting  in  Chicago.  He 
is  a  fellow  of  the  Institute.  The  award,  spon- 
sored by  Exxon  International  Co.  and  Exxon 
Research  and  Engineering  Co.,  is  given  annu- 
ally to  recognize  distinguished  and  continuing 
contributions  to  chemical  engineering  educa- 
tion. Dr.  Bennett  has  been  a  professor  of 
chemical  engineering  at  UConn  since  1964. 
He  is  the  author  of  three  books  and  over  30  ar- 
ticles which  have  appeared  in  professional 
journals.  Also,  he  has  served  as  a  consultant 
for  several  firms,  including  the  Fafnir  Bearing 
Co.,  ge,  Monsanto,  Remington  Rand  Univac, 
and  United  Technologies.  He  holds  patents  re- 
lating to  cellulose  impregnating  and  the  han- 
dling of  natural  gas.  His  doctorate  in 
engineering  is  from  Yale  University. 

J.  Perry  Fraser  is  now  senior  development 
engineer  for  Stirling  engine  systems  at  MTI, 
Inc.,  Latham,  N.Y. 

Ed  Lipovsky  has  been  retired  for  over  a 
year.  Formerly,  he  was  a  contract  administra- 
tor at  dcaas-usg,  in  San  Diego,  Calif. 


1944 


Roger  French  is  a  self-employed  consultant  in 
energy  conservation  and  management  in  Jack- 
son, N.H.  He  holds  an  mba  from  Harvard. 

Charles  Stowell  continues  as  senior  vice 
president  of  the  Metal  Exchange  Corp.,  St. 
Louis,  Mo. 


1945 


George  Brown  holds  the  position  of  president 
at  Whitinsville  Spinning  Ring  Co.  in  Gastonia, 
N.C. 

Robert  Scott  is  vice  president  of  Johnson 
&  Higgins  of  Connecticut,  Inc.,  Hartford. 

Dr.  Mitchell  Tenerowicz  recently  ap- 
peared on  the  "That's  incredible"  tv  show 
which  highlighted  Father  DiOrio,  the  charis- 
matic priest  from  Worcester. 


1946 


Walter  Bank,  a  WPI  trustee,  is  now  marketing 
manager  at  Syscon  Corp.  of  America  in  Wash- 
ington, D.C. 

Robert  Bart  let  t  serves  as  r&d  manager  at 
Alco  Dispensing  Systems,  Carol  Stream,  111. 

Walter  Gleason  is  retired  from  Exxon  and 
living  in  Grantham,  N.H. 

Presently,  John  Laffey  serves  as  vice  presi- 
dent of  marketing  for  major  accounts  at  Clark 
Equipment  Co.,  Benton  Harbor,  Mich.  He  is 
also  director  of  National  Mobile  Concrete 
Corp. 

Allan  Raymond  is  employed  as  an  envi- 
ronmental engineer  in  the  South  Carolina  De- 
partment of  Health  and  Environmental 
Control  in  Columbia.  He  retired  from  New 
York  State  after  30  years  of  service.  He  is  con- 
tinuing his  career  in  the  field  of  solid  and  haz- 
ardous waste  management. 

Peter  Vozzolla  works  as  a  senior  experi- 
mental engineer  at  Hamilton  Standard  in 
Windsor  Locks,  Conn. 

Robert  Willis  is  a  lead  sales  engineer  at  ge 
in  Spokane,  Washington. 


1947 


Henry  Bove  has  been  elected  vice  president  of 
the  chemical  division  at  United  Engineers  & 
Constructors,  Inc.,  a  Philadelphia-based  sub- 
sidiary of  Raytheon.  He  had  served  since  1971 
as  project  manager,  and  was  responsible  for  the 
management  and  design  of  environmental  and 
chemical  process  facilities.  Earlier,  he  was  pro- 
ject engineering  manager  and  supervising  engi- 
neer. Prior  to  joining  United  Engineers  in 
1968,  Bove  was  affiliated  with  Day  &  Zim- 
mermann,  Inc.  for  20  years,  where  he  rose  to 
vice  president  of  planning  and  research.  A  reg- 
istered professional  engineer,  he  holds  both  bs 
and  ms  degrees  in  chemical  engineering  from 
WPI. 

Ernest  Kimball  is  with  Kaiser  Aluminum 
&  Chemical  Corp.,  Mexico,  Mo. 


1948 


Robert  Adams  serves  as  president  of  Adams  In- 
dustries, Inc.,  Westmont,  111.  Also,  he  is  asso- 
ciated with  Tutco,  Inc.,  Cookeville,  Tenn.  and 
the  Wing  Co.  in  Cranford,  N.J. 

Niel  Fishman  serves  as  sales  manager  at 
PH.  Werner,  Inc.,  Springfield,  N.J.  He  is  a  pro- 
fessional engineer  in  New  Jersey  and  Florida. 

Recently,  Arne  Kellstrom  moved  to  Hous- 
ton where  he  is  vice  president  of  product  man- 
agement for  Ingersoll  Rand  Co. 


The  WPI  journal  /  Winter  1981  /  15 


A.  Stuart  Kelsey  holds  the  post  of  trea- 
surer at  Reflections  in  Art,  Inc.,  Pompano 
Beach,  Fla. 

Benjamin  Richter  works  as  a  cement  mar- 
keting and  distribution  manager  for  Texas  In- 
dustries, Inc.,  Arlington,  Texas. 

Edward  Tyler  is  manager  of  c&a  product 
engineering  at  ge  in  Evendale,  Ohio. 


1949 


Eugene  Briggs  is  president  and  treasurer  of 
Mastercraft  of  Burlington,  Inc.,  Graham,  N.C. 

Charles  Chase,  formerly  a  supervisor  for 
U.S.  Steel,  is  presently  retired  and  living  with 
his  wife,  Carolyn,  in  Brewster,  Mass. 

Malcolm  Ferson  has  been  appointed  man- 
ager of  sales,  Region  I,  in  ge's  Steam  Turbine- 
Generator  Marketing  Department.  He  will  be 
responsible  for  customer  relations  and  sales  in 
New  England,  New  York,  Tennessee  and  the 
western  third  of  the  U.S.  With  the  company 
since  1949,  in  1952,  he  entered  the  Sales 
Training  Program.  During  his  ge  career,  he  has 
served  as  a  turbine  specialist  for  the  Apparatus 
Sales  Department  in  Dallas,  and  as  industrial 
sales  manager  for  the  Medium  Steam  Turbine- 
Generator  Department  in  Lynn,  Mass.  After  a 
stint  with  the  Electric  Utility  Sales  Depart- 
ment in  Texas,  he  was  appointed  manager  of 
sales,  Region  IH,  in  1966.  Since  1977,  he  has 
served  as  manager  of  pricing,  planning  and  ad- 
ministration for  the  Large  Steam  Turbine- 
Generator  Financial  Operation.  Ferson 
belongs  to  the  Mohawk  Golf  Club  and  the 

ASME. 

Russell  Larson  serves  as  project  manager 
at  Perini  Corp.,  Framingham,  Mass. 


1950 


Carl  Ackerman  has  been  named  product  spe- 
cialist, electrical  insulation,  at  the  Fiberloys 
Division  of  Rogers  Corporation,  Rogers,  Conn. 
In  his  new  position,  he  will  be  responsible  for 
marketing  Rogers'  SF/duroid  and  SE/duroid 
structural  insulating  materials.  Before  going  to 
Rogers,  Ackerman  had  been  vice  president  and 
secretary  of  Union  Mills  Paper  Manufacturing 
Company  for  22  years.  He  had  also  been  assis- 
tant to  the  president  at  Superior  Polymers 
Company  and  did  technical  service  marketing 
at  the  Chase  Foster  Division  of  Keene  Corpo- 
ration. He  is  an  officer  of  the  astm  Techical 
Committee  for  D.09  on  electrical  insulating 
solids,  is  a  senior  member  of  the  ieee  Power 
Engineering  Society  and  the  ieee  Electrical  In- 
sulating Society  and  is  a  member  of  the  Under- 
writers Laboratory  Industry  Adivsory  Group 
on  polymer  materials.  The  Ackermans  reside 
in  West  Warwick,  R.I. 


Recently,  Pete  Cummings  was  appointed 
a  new  member  of  the  board  of  trustees  at  Be- 
cker Junior  College,  Worcester.  He  is  the  cur- 
rent president  and  former  treasurer  and 
general  manager  of  the  Lowell  Corp. 

Glenn  From  is  employed  as  program 
control-supervisor  at  Lockheed  in  Burbank, 
Calif. 

Albert  Perry  works  as  manager  of  the 
Parts  Distribution  Center  at  Worthington 
Compressors,  Memphis,  Term. 


1951 


Robert  Baldwin  is  with  Pullman  Heat  Re- 
search, New  York  City. 

William  McNeil  holds  the  position  of 
manager  of  sales  services  at  Cabot  Corpora- 
tion, Atlanta,  Georgia. 

Currently,  John  Seguin  is  an  account  ex- 
ecutive at  Norton  Co.,  Worcester. 

Dr.  Robert  Zimmerer  was  a  course  leader 
at  the  12th  Annual  Electro  Optics/Laser  Con- 
ference and  Exposition  held  in  November  at 
Hynes  Auditorium  in  Boston.  His  topic,  "La- 
ser Power  and  Energy  Measurements,"  was 
part  of  the  Professional  Advancement  Course. 
Dr.  Zimmerer  is  with  Scientech,  Inc.,  Boulder, 
Colo. 


1952 


Now  located  in  Portland,  Oregon,  previously, 
Jack  Yun-Ting  Kwan  was  a  senior  research  en- 
gineer in  the  high  temperature  gas  dynamics 
laboratory  at  the  Institute  of  Mechanics,  Aca- 
demia  Sinica,  Beijing,  China. 

Edgar  Van  Cott  holds  the  position  of  presi- 
dent of  Data  Convenor  Corp.,  Cochituate, 
Mass. 


1953 


Paul  Snyder  is  manager  of  planning  and  pro- 
jects at  Mobil  in  Fairfax,  Va. 


1954 


Clayton  Brown  is  president  of  dti  Data  Termi- 
nals Corp.  in  Medfield,  Mass. 

In  August,  Milton  Meckler  delivered  a  pa- 
per entitled  "Solar  Powered  Rankine  Cycle, 
Dual  State  Chiller/Regenerator  Improves 
Combined  Cycle  Efficiency"  at  the  Solar  Cool- 
ing and  Dehumidifying  Conference  in  Cara- 


cas, Venezuela.  His  book,  Energy 
Conservation  in  Buildings  and  Industrial 
Plants,  was  published  by  McGraw-Hill  in  Sep- 
tember. The  Meckler  Group's  newest  affiliate 
is  California  Solar  Technology.  Its  first  project 
will  be  the  development  and  installation  of  the 
residential  Skytherm  Solar  System. 

Emmanuel  Milias  was  recently  reelected 
president  of  the  Hellenic  Arts  Society  of 
Worcester  County.  He  is  employed  by  Norton 
Company  as  supervisor  of  Process  Systems  Re- 
search. A  vice  president  of  the  board  of  direc- 
tors of  St.  Spyridon's  Church,  he  also  sings  in 
the  church  choir.  He  and  his  wife,  Elpida,  are 
former  co-chairmen  of  the  church  festival. 

In  July,  Dr.  Werner  Neupert  a  project  sci- 
entist for  nasa,  briefed  representatives  from 
headquarters  and  the  press  on  the  first  scien- 
tific payload  to  fly  on  the  Space  Shuttle,  nasa's 
space  transportation  system.  The  briefing  and 
details  of  seven  principal  experiments  were 
provided  at  Goddard  Space  Flight  Center.  The 
prime  payload  for  the  flight,  which  is  slated  for 
April  of  1982,  is  a  Department  of  Defense  pro- 
ject. 


1955 


Roger  Bardwell  continues  as  president  of  the 
Production  Marketing  Group  in  Rochester, 
N.Y. 

Charles  Walters,  general  manager  of  the 
Wallingford  Electric  Division,  has  been  elected 
second  vice  president  of  the  Northeast  Public 
Power  Association,  which  recently  held  its  an- 
nual conference  at  Bretton  Woods,  N.H.  Previ- 
ously, he  served  as  treasurer  of  the  association. 
He  holds  an  mba  from  the  University  of  New 
Haven. 


1956 


William  Johnson  holds  the  position  of  vice 
president  at  Sobotka  &  Co.,  Inc.,  Washington, 
D.C. 

William  Jordan,  Jr.  now  is  vice  president 
in  charge  of  logic  products  for  Synertek  of 
Santa  Clara,  Calif.,  manufacturer  of  integrated 
circuits.  Formerly,  Jordan  was  vice  president  of 
engineering  for  Boschert,  and  earlier,  vice  pres- 
ident of  the  memory  systems  division  of  Intel. 


1957 


Christos  Alex  is  presently  with  Nanmac  Cor- 
poration in  Framingham,  Mass. 

John  Bandarra  is  a  plant  manager  for  Tam- 
pax,  Inc.  in  Claremont,  N.H. 


16  /  Winter  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


Allan  Carlson  is  employed  as  product  line 
manager  in  planning  and  management  at 
Western  Electric  Co.,  Morristown,  N.J. 

Walter  Kress  serves  as  project  manager  at 
American  Cyanamid,  Engineering  &  Con- 
struction Division,  Wayne,  N.J. 

The  William  Rawstrons  have  returned 
from  South  America  where  they  adopted  a 
seven-month-old  boy.  They  have  five  children 
of  their  own.  Rawstron  holds  the  post  of  vice 
president  for  engineering  and  planning  at  Ja- 
mesbury,  Worcester. 


I958 


Currently,  Normand  Bedard  works  for  the 
u.s.a.f.  at  Los  Angeles  Air  Force  Station.  He 
and  his  wife  have  two  children  at  Assumption, 
one  at  Stonehill,  and  two  in  private  high 
school  as  well  as  one  in  private  grammar 
school. 

Joseph  Dudcl v,  Jr.  serves  as  director  of  con- 
struction at  Revlon,  Inc.,  Edison,  N.J. 

Donald  Grenon  is  presently  regional  su- 
perintendent of  operations  at  Northeast  Utili- 
ties, West  Springfield,  Mass. 

William  Hopf  was  recently  named  vice 
president  and  general  manager  of  demco,  a  di- 
vision of  Cooper  Industries,  Inc.  in  Oklahoma 
City.  He  has  more  than  16  years  in  the  valve 
industry  and  is  regarded  as  a  leader  in  the  de- 
velopment and  production  of  quarter-turn 
valve  products.  In  1979  he  was  named  "Valve 
Man  of  the  Year"  by  the  Valve  Manufacturers 
Association.  From  1976  until  the  demco  ap- 
pointment, he  worked  at  Walworth  Company, 
Valley  Forge,  Pa.,  a  major  manufacturer  of  in- 
dustrial valves.  At  Walworth,  he  served  as  vice 
president  and  general  manager  of  Lubricated 
Plug  Valves,  Aloyco  and  Marine  divisions,  and 
of  the  company's  Cryogenic  Valve  subsidiary. 
Previously,  he  was  vice  president  of  engineer- 
ing and  quality  assurance.  Before  joining 
Walworth,  Hopf  was  manager  of  engineering 
for  Irvington-Moore,  Jacksonville,  Fla.,  which 
manufactures  lumber  processing  equipment 
for  the  forest  products  industry.  From  1964  to 
1974,  he  worked  at  Jamesbury  Corporation, 
Worcester,  where  as  r&e  manager  and  chief  en- 
gineer, he  introduced  actuator  products,  a 
high-performance  butterfly  valve,  and  new 
lines  of  ball  valves.  Hopf  holds  an  msme  from 
WPI  and  completed  Dartmouth's  Amos  Tuck 
Executive  Program  in  1978. 

He  has  served  as  chairman  of  the  Valve 
Manufacturers  Association's  Technical  Coor- 
dinating Committee  and  Task  Force  on  Prod- 
uct Liability  and  made  a  presentation  to  the 
White  House  Conference  on  Small  Business  in 
1979  on  product  liability  protection  and  the 
Federal  Trade  Commission's  proposed  stan- 
dards and  certification  rules.  Hopf  and  his  wife 
Sandy  have  a  son  who  attends  Campbell  Uni- 
versity in  North  Carolina.  His  company,  de- 
mco, manufactures  butterfly,  gate  and  ball 
valves,  centrifugal  pumps,  sewage  treatment 


plants  and  solids  separation  equipment  for  the 
petroleum,  chemical,  food,  beverage,  paper, 
water  and  waste  treatment,  and  marine  indus- 
tries. 

Ray  Johnson  serves  as  a  divisional  vice 
president  of  sales  at  Nepsco,  Inc.  in  Boylston, 
Mass. 

Ronald  Kangas  is  program  manager  at 
U.S.  dot  in  Washington,  D.C. 

Currently,  Burton  Keeler  holds  the  post  of 
design  engineer  at  ce  Ordnance  Systems,  Pitts- 
field,  Mass.  The  youngest  of  his  five  children, 
Marion,  is  a  freshman  at  WPI.  Her  roommate 
is  I  )ebbie  Allen,  daughter  of  Owen  Allen,  '54. 
Marion's  uncle,  Malcolm  Keeler,  '54,  roomed 
with  Allen  thirty  years  ago  in  Sanford  Riley. 

David  Ripple  holds  the  post  of  manager  of 
jewelry  equipment  development  at  Avon  Prod- 
ucts, Inc.,  Mansfield,  Mass. 

J.  Clifford  Wiersma  is  with  J.C.  Wiersma 
Real  Estate  in  Indianapolis. 


1959 


Frederick  Costello  is  now  vice  president  of 
sales  for  the  Ethylene  Oxide  Derivatives  Divi- 
sion at  Union  Carbide  Corporation,  Danbury, 
Conn.  Fred  and  Phil  Pudding  tun  are  co- 
chairmen  of  the  25th  Reunion  Committee. 

William  Pursell,  Jr.  is  vice  president  of 
manufacturing  at  Canco,  Inc.,  Houston, 
Texas. 

Eric  Rorstrom  has  advanced  to  staff  engi- 
neer at  Northeast  Utilities.  He  joined  nu  in 
1 973  as  a  senior  engineer.  A  member  of  the 
asme,  Rorstrom  also  serves  as  an  NU  repre- 
sentative to  the  Electric  Power  Research  Insti- 
tute. He  has  an  mba  from  UConn.  From  1961 
to  1962  he  was  in  the  U.S.  Army  Reserve. 


I960 


George  Beebe  serves  as  plant  engineer  for  mit's 
Lincoln  Lab  on  Kwajalain  Missile  Range  in  the 
Marshall  Islands. 

Paul  Byron  holds  the  position  of  resident 
inspector  at  the  U.S.  Nuclear  Regulatory 
Commission  in  Glen  Ellyn,  111. 

Donaldson  Dow  is  employed  as  a  senior 
structural  engineer  at  United  Engineering  in 
Darien,  Conn. 

Henry  Hyde  is  manager  of  loss  prevention 
at  basf  Wyandotte  Corp.,  Parsippany,  N.J. 

Paul  Johnson  is  regional  director  of 
alumni  at  mit  in  Cambridge,  Mass. 

Fred  Kloiber  wrote  "Power  Engineering  in 
Fusion  Research"  which  appeared  in  the  Octo- 
ber issue  of  the  IEEE  Almanack.  He  did  gradu- 
ate work  at  Yale,  and  is  a  member  of  the 
professional  technical  staff  at  Princeton  Uni- 
versity, assigned  to  the  Power  Branch  of  the 
Engineering  Division.  Previously,  he  had  been 
with  ge  and  Norden  Laboratories  where  he 


worked  on  aircraft,  spacecraft,  and  rail-car 
power  and  control  systems. 

Raymond  Levesque  has  been  named  man- 
ager of  American  Cyanamid's  newly  acquired 
aerospace  products  plant  in  Saugus,  Calif.  Pre- 
viously, he  was  thermoset  molding  compound 
department  manager  at  the  company  plant  in 
Wallingford,  Conn. 

Anan  Panananda  is  director  of  the  Cus- 
toms Department  in  Bangkok,  Thailand. 

Donald  Taylor  is  employed  as  project  su- 
perintendent at  Catalytic  Inc.,  Toledo,  Ohio. 

Francis  Toce  holds  the  position  of  presi- 
dent at  Syracuse  Scientific,  Inc.,  Clay,  N.Y. 


I96l 


John  Donnelly  is  employed  as  manager  of 
manufacturing  of  instrument  products  at  ge  in 
Lynn,  Mass.  He  relocated  to  his  present  job  in 
1978  from  the  ge  transformer  plant  in  Shreve- 
port,  La. 

Evan  Duane  serves  as  a  software  systems 
project  leader  at  Grumman  Aerospace  Corp.  in 
Bethpage,  N.Y.  He  specializes  in  mini- 
computer application  software  development. 

Ron  DuFries  continues  with  Morgan 
Construction  Co.,  Worcester,  where  he  is  cur- 
rently sales  manager  for  wire  machinery. 

Arthur  Greene  holds  the  post  of  physicist 
at  Brookhaven  National  Laboratory,  Upton, 
N.Y.  He  is  concerned  with  the  Isabelle  Project. 

William  Lupoli  serves  as  senior  account 
manager  at  trw  in  Westwood,  Calif. 

Continuing  with  T-Bar,  Inc.,  Wilton, 
Conn.,  Moussit  Noradoukian  presently  serves 
as  assistant  vice  president  of  marketing. 

Raymond  Rec  continues  at  Eaton  Corp., 
Kalamazoo,  Michigan,  where  he  is  chief  in- 
strumentation engineer. 

Ralph  Smith  is  employed  as  a  marketing 
representative  at  du  Pont  in  New  York  City. 
He  holds  an  mba  from  Drexel. 


1962 


Albert  Andrews  is  divsion  manager  at  Treasure 
Chest  Advertising  in  Windsor  Locks,  Conn. 

George  Bastien  continues  with  Bechtel 
Power  Corp.,  where  he  holds  the  post  of  group 
supervisor. 

William  Krein,  formerly  manager  for  the 
finance  and  division  support  operation  of  ge's 
Installation  and  Service  Engineering  Division 
in  Schenectady,  has  been  named  controller  at 
Zenith  Radio  Corp.  He  joined  ge  in  1966  in  the 
Advanced  Manufacturing  Training  Program 
and  following  assignments  in  manufacturing 
engineering  with  the  Steam  Turbine- 
Generator  Division  and  in  factory  supervision 
with  the  Power  Circuit  Breaker  Division, 
joined  the  corporate  staff  in  1968.  In  1972,  he 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Winter  1981  /  17 


became  manager  of  financial  operations  anal- 
ysis for  the  Power  Generation  Business 
Group,  was  named  manager  of  finance  for  the 
ise  Division  in  1974,  and  to  his  last  ge  post  in 
1976.  He  has  an  mba  in  finance  from  Babson 
Institute,  is  married,  and  has  three  children. 

John  "Tony"  Lockwood  continues  as 
president  of  J.A.  Lockwood  Co.,  in 
Pluckemin,  N.J.  The  Lockwoods,  who  reside 
in  Bridgewater,  N.J.,  have  three  sons. 

Stephen  Osterling,  a  former  manufactur- 
ing manager  with  Eastman  Kodak,  has  been 
named  plant  manager  at  Battery  Technology 
Company  in  Lexington,  Ky.  The  firm  is  a  divi- 
sion of  Duracell  International.  Osterling  is  re- 
sponsible for  directing  all  operations  of  the 
local  facility.  Battery  Technology  specializes  in 
"button  cell"  mercury  and  silver  oxide  bat- 
teries used  in  watches,  cameras,  etc.  Osterling 
has  an  mba  from  Dartmouth.  Previously,  he 
worked  for  Johnson  &  Johnson. 

Peter  Parrino  works  as  technical  coordi- 
nator at  Washington  University  in  St.  Louis. 

Dr.  James  Quirk  continues  as  a  professor 
of  physics  at  the  University  of  New 
Hampshire.  He  also  runs  U-Drive  Boat 
Rentals  and  Houseboat  Vacations  as  well  as 
Lake  George  Tour  Boats. 

Frank  Sokol  holds  the  position  of  presi- 
dent of  Falcon  Associates,  Inc.,  Westport, 
Conn. 

Dr.  John  Tien  was  a  co-author  of  "Cobalt 
Availability  and  Superalloys"  which  appeared 
in  the  October  issue  of  Journal  of  Metals.  He  is 
a  professor  of  metallurgy  at  the  Henry  Krumb 
School  of  Mines,  Columbia  University.  He  re- 
ceived his  pIid  and  ms  in  metallurgy  and  mate- 
rials science  from  Carnegie-Mellon  and  his 
MEng  degree  from  Yale.  He  was  a  research  sci- 
entist at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  for  four 
years  before  joining  the  faculty  at  Columbia  in 
1972.  He  has  written  over  90  papers  in  many 
materials  areas,  including  the  physical  and 
mechanical  metallurgy  of  superalloys,  coars- 
ening and  stress  coarsening,  kinetics  of  hydro- 
gen embrittlement,  and  fracture  mechanics. 
Also,  he  has  researched  and  published  in  areas 
relating  to  materials  availability  and  technol- 
ogy, transfer.  Dr.  Tien  is  a  consultant  to  many 
industries  and  the  United  Nations. 

John  Tufano  is  vice  president  and  general 
manager  of  Peco  Enterprises,  Inc.,  Davenport, 
Iowa.  He  has  an  ma  from  Notre  Dame.  The 
Tufanos,  who  have  two  children,  live  in  Bet- 
tendorf. 


1963 


1965 


Raymond  Akerson  is  employed  as  division 
chief  at  National  Security  Agency,  Fort  Meade, 
Md. 

Andrew  Andersen  is  involved  with  special 
project  construction  at  asr  Multi  Group  in 
Troy,  Michigan. 

Richard  Garvais,  who  holds  an  mba  from 
Syracuse,  serves  as  general  manager  of  Wilson 
Sporting  Goods,  Fountain  Inn,  S.C. 

Hunter  Associates  Laboratory,  Reston, 
Va.,  has  announced  the  promotion  of  Howard 
McDevitt,  Jr.  to  the  position  of  vice  president 
of  engineering.  Prior  to  joining  Hunter,  he  was 
supervisor  of  the  Remote-Sensing  Group  of  the 
Systems  Division  of  Bendix  Corporation. 
More  recently,  he  was  vice  president  of  engi- 
neering at  Acuity  Systems.  He  holds  a  bs  from 
Bucknell,  an  ms  from  WPI,  and  he  has  also 
studied  at  the  University  of  Michigan. 

Dr.  Dan  Pender  is  setting  up  a  medical 
practice  in  the  specialty  of  otology  (refers  to 
ear  diseases)  in  Lido  Beach,  N.Y.  Dan  says,  "It 
is  a  wonderful  specialty  for  a  mechanical  engi- 
neer, as  it  involves  microsurgical  repair  of 
middle  ear  structures,  as  well  as  a  thorough 
understanding  of  middle  ear  and  inner  ear  bio- 
physics." The  latter  concerns  the  concepts  of 
impedance  matching,  vibrations,  hydrody- 
namics, and  the  electrophysiology  of  the 
neurosensory  receptors  in  the  ear.  After  com- 
pleting surgical  residency  at  the  University  of 
Vermont,  he  was  certified  by  the  American 
Board  of  Otolaryngolgy  in  1978.  For  the  next 
two  years,  he  was  at  Harvard  on  a  research  fel- 
lowship. "Along  the  way,  my  wife,  Vivian, 
and  I  have  seen  our  family  grow  to  four  chil- 
dren, including  three-year-old  twin  girls." 

Art  Pratt  serves  as  a  senior  associate  at  Al- 
lan Davis  Assoc,  Inc.,  Stamford,  Conn.  He  is 
a  registered  professional  engineer  in  Illinois 
and  Connecticut. 

Gerard  St.  Germain  is  guidance  project 
manager  at  the  Naval  Plant  Representative  Of- 
fice in  Pittsfield,  MA. 

Willard  Sweetser,  Jr.,  has  been  named  a 
vice  president  by  Bume  &  Roe,  Inc.  He  will  re- 
tain duties  as  director  of  construction  with  re- 
sponsibility for  all  construction  activities  of 
the  company. 


1964 


►  Married:  Marshall  W.  Cross  and  Margaret  L. 
Mangan  in  Milford,  Massachusetts.  Mrs. 
Cross,  a  graduate  of  Quinsigamond  Commu- 
nity College,  is  a  senior  secretary  at  gte  Sylva- 
nia  of  Needham,  Mass.,  where  her  husband 
serves  as  engineering  manager. 

Dr.  John  Boyle  holds  the  post  of  staff  sci- 
entist at  C.S.  Draper  Laboratory  in  Cam- 
bridge, Mass. 

David  McCaffrey  is  an  account  executive 
at  Union  Carbide  Corp.  in  Chicago. 


Recently,  "Butch"  Altenburg  established 
Technical  Process  and  Engineering,  a  sales  and 
engineering  consultant  company  serving  the 
rubber  and  plastic  industries.  He  and  his  wife, 
Karen,  are  located  in  Tamaqua,  Pa.,  where 
they  are  building  a  house.  Both  are  very  active 
with  the  National  Ski  Patrol.  Also  involved 
with  the  Eastern  Division  Ski  and  Toboggan 
Test  Committee,  Butch  was  the  49th  person 
in  the  U.S.  to  receive  National  Certification. 
He  is  chairman  of  the  Eastern  Division  Certi- 
fied Program.  Karen  has  been  named  the  Out- 
standing Professional  Patroller  in  the  Eastern 
Division. 

Thomas  Arcari  is  co-founder  of  Triple-A- 
Construction  Company,  a  firm  which  builds 
custom  houses,  and  is  presently  starting  a  one- 
hundred  acre  development  in  New  Hartford, 
Conn.  He  has  been  with  Northeast  Utilities 
since  1969.  The  father  of  four,  in  his  spare 
time  he  coaches  Little  League  and  makes  fur- 
niture. 

Anibal  Ayala  writes,  "At  age  55, 1  will  be 
retiring  next  September.  Hope  to  be  there  for 
the  reunion,  because  then  I'll  be  free  to  go 
when  I  please."  For  many  years  a  professor  of 
electrical  engineering  at  the  University  of 
Puerto  Rico,  Mayaguez,  he  wrote  a  college 
textbook  [Electric  Machines  and  Trans- 
formers). A  number  of  his  technical  papers 
have  been  published  in  various  Puerto  Rican 
technical  journals.  After  retirement,  Ayala 
plans  to  work  in  real  estate  investments. 

Philip  Bachelder,  who  has  an  ms  in  man- 
agement from  rpi's  Hartford  Graduate  Center, 
serves  a  dual  role  as  manager  of  process  engi- 
neering and  program  manager  of  government 
r&d  contracts  in  electrophotography  at  James 
River  Graphics  in  South  Hadley,  Mass.  His 
staff  of  18  is  involved  in  six  technical  disci- 
plines. The  Bachelders  have  four  sons.  Their 
dad  says,  "I  have  coached  some  boys'  teams, 
but  I  get  over-zealous.  Would  you  believe  that 
as  a  spectator  I  was  shown  'the  yellow  card' 
for  questioning  a  soccer  referee's  call." 

Dr.  Bradford  Barber  is  now  with  the 
School  of  Physics  and  Astronomy  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Minnesota  in  Minneapolis. 

Fishing,  sailing,  running,  and  skiing  are 
favorite  pastimes  for  Nicholas  Barone.  Since 
graduation  he  has  worked  for  ge  and  Olin 
Corp.  He  is  now  director  of  consumer 
services,  a  government  regulation  function. 
He  and  Kathy  have  two  boys  and  a  girl.  Kathy 
is  very  active  in  the  pta.  Nick  is  past  president 
of  the  Milford  (Conn.)  Kiwanis,  chairman  of 
the  Milford  Planning  and  Zoning  Board,  and 
director  of  the  Milford  Conservation  Land 
Trust. 

After  spending  two  years  with  Exxon  in 
England,  Frank  Benham,  and  his  family  are 
now  resettled  om  Brookside,  N.J.  Currently, 
Frank  is  section  head  in  the  Engineering  Tech- 
nology Department  at  Exxon  Research  and  En- 
gineering in  Florham  Park,  N.J.  He  is  involved 
with  designing,  constmcting,  and  operating 
the  worldwide  marine  terminal  facilities  at 


18  /  Winter  1981  /  The  WPI  fournal 


F J  L'  1  ■  ■  R.'  LM 


Exxon's  refining  and  marketing  location.  After 
hours,  he  likes  woodworking,  sailing,  and 
photography.  Wife  Paula  is  an  officer  in  the 
Northern  New  Jersey  unit  of  the  Herb  Society 
of  America.  Becky,  12,  has  decided  she's  seen 
enough  of  other  countries  and  hopes  to  see 
more  of  the  U.S.A.  Her  brother,  Peter,  9,  is  a 
'ball  of  fire"  with  "webbed  feet  from  too 
much  swimming." 

Confirmed  Chess  Nut  Gregory  Berry  is 
not  only  one  of  the  top  postal  chess  players  in 
the  country,  he  is  also  the  current  president  of 
the  Argonne  Chess  Club,  and  a  past  president 
of  the  Chicago  Industrial  Chess  League.  "In 
addition  to  my  chess  passion,  I  play  racquet- 
ball  about  twice  a  week."  Berry,  who  has  a  phD 
from  UConn,  now  holds  the  post  of  manager 
of  the  energy  system  analysis  group,  engineer- 
ing division,  at  Argonne  National  Laboratory. 
He  is  primarily  concerned  with  emerging  coal- 
based  technologies.  The  Berry s  have  two  sons. 

Kenneth  Brown  manages  a  team  of  55 
electrical-mechanical-software  engineers  in 
the  development  of  a  new  class  of  typesetter  at 
Compugraphic  Corporation.  Once  busy  with 
the  Jaycees,  Brown  and  his  wife  have  also  be- 
come active  supporters  of  Marriage  Encounter. 
Daughters  Debbie  and  Diane  play  the  piano 
and  ice  skate,  respectively.  Sportswise,  Brown 
has  learned  to  sail  small  racing  craft  (470),  and 
discovered  how  to  "eat  lunch  balanced  on  the 
rail  of  a  keeled-over  boat  and  how  to  swim  out 
from  under  a  capsized  boat."  The  family  leads 
a  guitar  group  for  weekly  folk  masses  at 
church. 

Randy  Burr  serves  as  a  buyer  at  Eastman 
Kodak,  Rochester,  N.Y.  He  purchases  process 
control  equipment  and  instrumentation  (re- 
cording equipment)  and  energy  management 
systems,  with  annual  purchasing  volume  be- 
ing as  high  as  $14  million.  The  Burrs  and  their 
children  all  enjoy  golf  and  skiing  with  the  chil- 
dren both  competing  in  swimming.  In  the  ten- 
year-old  bracket,  Lisa  was  ranked  29th  in  the 
U.S.  as  a  breaststroker  (aau).  Wife  Pat  is  an  op- 
erating room  nurse.  For  two  years,  Randy  was 
on  the  National  Ski  Patrol. 

Robert  Cahill  writes:  "Judy  and  I  were  for- 
tunate in  being  vrp's  at  the  XHI  Winter  Olym- 
pics at  Lake  Placid,  and  played  the  role  to  the 
hilt  with  the  likes  of  Jean  Claude  Killy,  Lemar 
Hunt,  and  the  king  and  queen  of  Sweden."  Ca- 
hill is  president  of  National  Hydron,  Inc.,  Lan- 
caster, Pa.,  which  manufactures,  among  other 
things,  "the"  anti-fog  goggle  for  skiers.  He  has 
been  serving  as  class  head  agent.  This  year  he, 
his  wife,  and  two  daughters  traveled  to  Las  Ve- 
gas and  California. 

Don  Carlson  has  just  relocated  to  Dus- 
seldorf ,  West  Germany,  as  product  manager  for 
European  operations  of  the  Torrington  Com- 
pany. His  family  of  four  enjoys  bicycling  along 
the  Rhine  with  a  knapsack  of  bread  and  local 
wine.  Last  fall,  while  home  on  leave,  he  ac- 
quired a  handsome  10-point  buck.  Skiing  in 
the  Alps  and  fishing  are  also  favorite  pastimes. 


Lee  Chouinard  was  recently  promoted  to 
marketing  manager  of  Europe  and  Africa  for 
Amoco  Chemicals,  Petroleum  Additives  Divi- 
sion, and  is  now  located  in  Geneva,  Switzer- 
land. Stacy,  8,  is  a  budding  gymnast.  Trey,  the 
Chouinards'  four-year-old  adopted  son  from 
Nicaragua,  "has  learned  more  English  in  the 
past  18  months  than  most  five-year-old  native 
Americans  know."  The  family  likes  vacation- 
ing in  Maine,  home  of  Secretary  of  State  Ed 
Muskie,  Chouinard's  uncle. 

Presently,  Stephen  Cloues  serves  as  a 
church  planning  consultant  with  an  emphasis 
on  starting  new  churches  in  strategic  loca- 
tions. He  is  headquartered  in  Birmingham, 
Ala.  He  holds  postgraduate  degrees  from  Geor- 
gia Tech  and  Southwestern  Baptist  Seminary. 
Hiking,  backpacking,  and  bicycling  are 
leisure-time  activities. 

For  the  past  13  years,  David  Coombe  has 
been  with  the  U.S.  Army.  Currently,  he  is  sta- 
tioned at  Fort  Bliss  in  El  Paso,  Texas.  Earlier 
assignments  were  at  Watervliet  Arsenal  in 
New  York,  and  at  Kwajalein  Missile  Range  in 
the  South  Pacific.  Recently,  he  earned  a  flight 
instructor's  certificate.  The  Coombes  like  sail- 
ing, scuba  diving,  and  skiing,  depending  on 
where  they  are  located. 

Frank  Rainer  (Czbulka)  is  studying  laser 
induced  damage  to  optical  coating  and  glasses 
at  Lawrence  Livermore  Laboratory  in  Califor- 
nia. He  has  a  master's  degree  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  California.  Travel  buffs,  he  and  Sigrid 
have  driven  from  Alaska  to  Panama,  journeyed 
from  Asia  to  Germany  by  bus,  and  visited  Si- 
beria, Kenya,  the  Great  Wall  of  China,  and 
South  America — in  all,  over  62  countries. 

Charles  Dufour  holds  the  post  of  director 
of  newspaper  engineering  at  Harris  Corp.  Busi- 
ness travel  has  taken  him  to  China  twice  re- 
cently. He,  Sandra,  Jill,  Holly,  and  Chuck  now 
live  in  a  150-year-old  house  on  the  Pawcatuck 
River  in  Rhode  Island.  "We  are  in  the  process 
of  gutting  and  remodeling  this  charming  old 
house,"  Dufour  says.  (His  wife  is  an  interior 
designer. )  Besides  jogging  and  skiing,  Dufour 
serves  as  president  of  an  investment  club 
which  he  helped  to  organize.  "As  yet  we've 
made  no  money,  much  to  my  wife's  dismay." 

Charles  Durkin,  Jr.  recently  became  in- 
volved in  sailing  and  says  he  is  becoming  "ad- 
dicted." He  is  town  committeeman  and 
treasurer  of  a  political  social  club  in  Yorktown 
Heights,  N.Y.  With  Con  Edison  since  gradua- 
tion, he  is  presently  manager  of  system  opera- 
tion with  responsibility  for  the  reliable 
economic,  secure  and  safe  operation  of  the 
electric  and  steam  systems  serving  New  York 
City  and  Westchester  County.  He  holds  a  pat- 
ent on  a  control  device  and  has  published  arti- 
cles and  technical  papers.  In  1977,  he  was 
chief  system  operator  at  Con  Edison  during 
the  New  York  City  blackout.  "Many  hours  of 
hard  work  then!"  The  Durkins  have  three 
children. 

William  Eidt  is  now  international 
licensee  administrator  for  Combustion  Engi- 
neering, and  administers  agreements  with 
companies  in  France,  Belgium,  the  Nether- 
lands, Sweden,  and  Finland.  He  has  a  daugh- 
ter, Lauren,  6.  Pastimes  include  gardening, 


softball,  and  part-time  real  estate  sales.  He 
holds  an  mba  from  Western  New  England  Col- 
lege. 

Nils  Ericksen  of  Ericksen  Associates,  Inc., 
who  specializes  in  ski  area  design  and  ski  lift 
relocations,  is  a  professional  engineer.  In  two 
years,  he's  worked  in  15  states  and  two  foreign 
countries.  He  is  a  licensed  tramway  inspector 
in  Massachusetts,  as  well  as  a  member  of  the 
national  tramway  code  committee,  and  the 
Eastern  Snow  Conference.  Previously,  he  was 
technical  editor  of  "Ski  Area  Management" 
magazine.  His  1 1 -year-old  daughter  is  a  "super 
skier." 

Jim  Fee  is  now  product  manager  for  Accu- 
test,  a  company  in  the  automatic  test  equip- 
ment field.  Over  the  years,  he's  regularly  been 
involved  with  a  number  of  WPI  alumni:  John 
Jacobson  and  Cap  Chenoweth,  '64 — down 
river  canoe  racing  and  Whitewater  kayaking  in 
Washington;  Alan  George,  '66,  Wayne  Ponik 
and  Paul  Covec,  '64 — working  on  Teradyne 
projects;  and  Pat  Moran  and  Bill  Shields — road 
racing. 

Dick  Fortier,  who  has  a  pIid  in 
mechanical  engineering  from  Northeastern,  is 
a  mechanical  group  leader  in  the  engineering 
division  for  Cabot  Corporation  in  St.  Louis. 
Previously,  he  had  worked  for  Stone  &  Web- 
ster and  had  taught  at  Southeastern  Massachu- 
setts University.  He  and  Gail  have  two  sons. 
Serious  running  is  a  pastime,  and  in  1978  Dick 
qualified  for  and  ran  in  the  Boston  Marathon. 
Most  of  Ron  Friend's  professional  career 
has  been  spent  in  the  valve  industry.  Follow- 
ing employment  with  Jamesbury  Corp.  and 
Masoneilan  Regulator  Company,  Ron  is  cur- 
rently principal  engineer  at  Crosby  Valve  and 
Gage  Co.  He  belongs  to  the  asme,  the  isa,  and 
is  a  registered  professional  engineer.  He  and 
his  family  enjoy  camping,  their  latest  adven- 
ture being  a  two-week  camping  trip  at  Walt 
Disney  World  in  Florida. 

William  Galebach  serves  as  manager  of 
the  engineering  department  at  the  Hanover  fa- 
cility of  Motorola  in  Maryland.  His  wife,  Judy, 
is  a  financial  analyst  at  Motorola.  They  both 
have  degrees  from  Georgia  State  University. 
Although  their  daughter,  Amy,  is  toddler  age, 
she  is  always  included  in  their  yachting  activi- 
ties on  Chesapeake  Bay.  Other  interests  are 
fishing,  tennis,  and  being  active  in  the  Anna- 
polis Choral  Society,  and  the  Community  As- 
sociation. 

Robert  Gerdes  is  currently  a  senior 
process  engineer  in  the  chemical  division  of 
ppg  Industries,  New  Martinsville,  West  Vir- 
ginia. He  has  been  with  the  firm  since  gradua- 
tion. His  assignments  have  primarily  been  in 
chlorine  and  chlorinated  benzene  operations. 
One  of  his  special  projects  was  the  starting  of  a 
new  plant  in  Canada.  Sally  and  he  have  two 
sons. 

Paul  Giusti  went  into  the  family  business 
in  1976  and  built  a  300-seat  restaurant  and 
lounge  on  New  Bedford's  historic  waterfront. 
"None  of  the  laws  of  physics  apply  in  the  res- 
taurant business,  only  Murphy's  law."  His 
wife,  Patricia,  a  former  American  Airlines 
stewardess  and  Becker  graduate,  was  Miss 
Pennsylvania  in  the  Miss  USA  contest  for 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Winter  1981/19 


Miss  Universe  in  1964.  The  Giustis  have  two 
children  and  like  tennis,  skiing,  and  racquet- 
ball. 

Joseph  Gracia,  Jr.  presently  serves  as  mar- 
keting manager  of  precision  capacitors  at 
Comell-Dubilier  Electronics.  He  writes: 
"Happy  to  be  situated  in  southeastern  Massa- 
chusetts raising  a  family  and  sailng  around 
Buzzards  Bay."  Other  interests  include  bicy- 
cling, skiing,  and  gardening. 

Ronald  Greene  says  he  hopes  to  take  ad- 
vantage of  another  one  of  those  "great  trips 
sponsored  by  the  WPI  Alumni  Association  af- 
ter we  had  such  a  super  vacation  in  Paris  in 
1976."  His  involvement  in  barbershop  quartet 
music  has  taken  him  to  many  parts  of  the 
country  and  Canada  for  conventions,  competi- 
tions, and  performances.  He  sings  with  an  in- 
ternational competition  chorus,  The  Sounds 
of  Concord,  arranges  music,  and  directs.  Since 
graduation,  Greene  has  worked  for  General 
Dynamics,  rca,  and  Data  General,  where  he 
built  a  department  of  25  engineering  pro- 
gramers.  Since  January,  he  has  served  as  man- 
ager of  computer  diagnostics  at 
Computervision . 

Jim  Gustafson,  his  wife,  Dot,  and  their 
daughter,  Cari,  live  on  a  lake  in  Watertown, 
Conn.,  where  they  swim,  fish,  ice  skate,  and 
go  boating.  Gustafson  has  a  master's  in  man- 
agement science  from  the  Hartford  Graduate 
Center.  He  holds  the  post  of  manager  of  corpo- 
rate data  center  operations  at  the  Stanley 
Works  in  New  Britain,  Conn.  Previously  he 
was  with  Chas.  T.  Main,  Boston,  and  Air  Prod- 
ucts &  Chemicals,  Allentown,  Pa. 

John  Henrickson  is  a  product  planning 
manager  at  Western  Electric  Co.,  Allentown, 
Pa. 

Glenn  Hurst  serves  as  project  engineer  at 
du  Pont  in  Wilmington,  Delaware. 

Kenneth  Johnson  holds  the  position  of 
vice  president  at  Natgun  Corp.,  El  Dorado 
Hills,  Calif. 

George  Mitschang,  who  has  an  ms  from 
Cornell  and  the  Naval  Postgraduate  School, 
also  has  a  PhD  horn  the  latter.  A  lieutenant 
commander  in  the  U.S.  Navy,  he  is  presently 
stationed  in  Scotland. 

Charles  Seaver  serves  as  superintendent 
of  the  technical  division  at  du  Pont  in 
Victoria,  Texas. 

Irwin  Smith  continues  with  American 
Standard,  Wauregan,  Conn.,  where  he  is  plant 
engineer. 


1966 


Brian  Belanger  is  employed  as  principal  staff 
engineer  at  Motorola,  Inc.,  Tempe,  Arizona. 

J.N.  Borad  is  a  design  engineer  for  Nuclear 
Power  Service,  Inc.,  Secaucus,  N.J.  He  and  Ur- 
mila  and  their  three  children  reside  in  Hous- 
ton, Texas. 

Jetfrey  Cheyne  works  as  an  electrical  de- 
sign engineer  at  Raytheon  in  Sudbury,  Mass. 
He  has  an  msee  from  Northeastern. 


Previously  vice  provost  for  enrollment 
planning  at  Carnegie-Mellon  University,  Dr. 
William  Elliott  was  recently  appointed  to  the 
newly-created  post  of  vice  president  for  enroll- 
ment at  the  University.  Bill  joined  the 
Camegie-Mellon  staff  as  assistant  director  of 
admissions  in  1966.  He  has  degrees  from 
Clark  University  and  the  University  of  Pitts- 
burgh, and  he  is  a  former  president  of  the 
Pennsylvania  Association  of  College  Admis- 
sions Counselors. 

Richard  Goodell  has  been  named  director 
of  minerals  engineering  by  the  materials  sci- 
ence products  group  of  Pfizer,  Inc.  New  York 
City.  Since  1977,  he  had  been  plant  manager 
for  the  firm  in  Adams,  Mass.,  after  serving  in 
similar  capacities  at  Pfizer  plants  in  Lucerne 
Valley  and  Victorville,  Calif.  He  began  his  ca- 
reer with  the  company  in  1971  as  a  project  en- 
gineer at  the  Adams  plant,  and  became  plant 
engineer  in  1972.  He  will  remain  at  the  Adams 
plant  in  his  new  capacity.  Prior  to  joining  Pfi- 
zer, Goodell  was  associated  with  Sikorsky  Air- 
craft, serving  as  a  test  engineer.  The  Goodells 
live  in  Williamstown  and  have  three  children. 

Wallace  Hack  serves  as  a  maintenance  su- 
pervisor at  Borden,  Inc.,  Chemical  Division, 
Leominster,  Mass.  He  is  a  professional  engi- 
neer in  Illinois,  New  Jersey,  and  Massachu- 
setts. 

Dr.  Charles  Jaworski  serves  as  an  oral  sur- 
gery resident  at  Letterman  Army  Medical  Cen- 
ter in  San  Francisco.  He  is  a  lieutenant 
commander  in  the  U.S.  Navy.  He  and  Rose- 
mary have  two  children  and  live  in  Novato, 
Calif. 

James  Loomis  is  a  general  superintendent 
for  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston.  He  and  Judy  and 
their  three  children  live  in  Baton  Rouge,  La. 

Marty  Mastroianni  is  a  manager  of  mar- 
ket development  at  Allied  Chemical  Corp., 
Morristown,  N.J. 

Alan  Moksu,  who  has  an  mba  from 
Northeastern,  is  employed  as  a  senior  staff  en- 
ngineer  at  Kollsman  Instrument  Co.,  in  Merri- 
mack, N.H. 

David  Spencer  is  with  Pacific  Power  & 
Light,  Centralia,  Washington.  He  and  Kathy 
have  two  children. 

Robert  Wilson  works  as  a  process 
engineer  at  Arwood  Corp.,  Tilton,  N.H.  The 
company  produces  investment  castings  in  alu- 
minum, magnesium,  and  copper  alloys,  used 
mostly  in  the  aircraft,  aerospace,  and  defense 
industries. 


1967 


Warren  Clark  serves  as  senior  engineer  at  Dy- 
namics Research  Corp.,  Wilmington,  Mass. 

Carmen  Delia Vecchia,  who  holds  an  ms 
in  mathematics  from  St.  Mary's  University  in 
San  Antonio,  Texas,  holds  the  post  of  unit 
manager  of  sales  at  Procter  and  Gamble, 
Shreveport,  La. 

Major  Edward  Gallo  is  currently  stationed 
with  the  U.S.  Army  Ordnance  Corps  outside 
of  Athens,  Greece. 


Charlie  Goodspeed  heads  Goodspeed  & 
Associates,  Exeter,  N.H.,  a  small  construction 
company  which  specializes  in  solar  energy. 
Also,  he  is  an  assistant  professor  in  the  civil 
engineering  department  at  unh. 

Ron  Gordon  is  involved  with  tech  ed. 
planning  at  ibm  in  Irving,  Texas.  He  is  a  profes- 
sional soccer  referee. 

John  Kuenzler  holds  the  position  of  mid- 
west area  manager  for  emc  Controls  of  Cock- 
eysville,  Md.  The  Kuenzlers  live  in 
Jarrettsville  and  have  two  children. 

Bhoopen  Kurani  is  with  Earth  Quake  En- 
gineering Systems,  San  Francisco. 

Herb  Riddle,  Jr.  is  employed  as  program 
manager  for  Special  Military  Electronics  at 
Analog  Devices,  Norwood,  Mass. 

Joseph  Slocik  holds  the  position  of  senior 
engineer  in  the  advanced  transformer  depart- 
ment at  ge  in  Pittsfield,  Mass.  He  has  an  ms 
from  Union  College. 

Nelson  Thune  serves  as  plant  manager  at 
Hyland  Therapeutics  Division,  Travenol  Labo- 
ratories in  Los  Angeles. 

Duncan  Vanderberg  works  as  a  project  en- 
gineer at  Dow  Corning  Corp.  in  Hemlock, 
Mich. 


1968 


>-Bom:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Roger  Pryor  a  son,  Ja- 
mes Clark,  on  October  5,  1980. 

Michael  Babin  works  as  a  senior  project 
engineer  at  Polysar,  Inc.,  Leominster,  Mass. 

R.  Gregory  Balmer  is  a  staff  engineer  at 
Exxon  Research  &  Engineering  Co.,  Florham 
Park,  N.J.  He  holds  an  ms  in  environmental 
engineering  from  Purdue. 

Wayne  Blanchard  is  operations  finance 
manager  at  Johnson  &  Johnson  in  Chicago.  He 
and  Sandra  have  two  daughters. 

Richard  Collins  has  been  promoted  to  as- 
sociate actuary  at  State  Mutual  in  Worcester. 
A  fellow  of  the  Society  of  Actuaries,  he  has 
been  with  State  Mutual  since  1968.  He  had 
served  as  assistant  actuary. 

Robert  Cuikay,  who  has  an  msee  from 
WPI,  has  been  appointed  director  of  support 
engineering  at  Data  General  in  Westboro, 
Mass.  With  the  company  since  1973,  previ- 
ously he  was  manager  of  the  systems  sustain- 
ing engineering  department. 

DMP  Corp.,  Fort  Mill,  S.C.,  has  pro- 
moted Paul  Dubinsky  to  executive  vice  presi- 
dent of  sales,  administration  and 
manufacturing.  Formerly,  he  was  vice  presi- 
dent of  sales.  Before  joining  the  firm,  he  was 
waste  treatment  manager,  and  later  national 
sales  manager  for  Napco.  He  holds  a  degree  in 
psychology  from  Sacred  Heart  University,  and 
studied  for  his  ma  in  business  at  unh. 

The  director  of  Civil  Preparedness  in 
Glastonbury,  Conn,  recently  announced  that 
Edward  Harper  has  been  appointed  as  assistant 
radiological  defense  officer  and  civil  prepared- 
ness training  officer.  Harper  is  director  of  engi- 
neering for  the  Harper  Buffing  Machine 


20  /  Winter  1981  /  The  WPI  journal 


Company  and  serves  in  electronics  for  the 
Navy  Reserve.  He  is  also  the  amateur  commu- 
nications coodinator  for  Civil  Preparedness. 

Phillip  LaRoe  is  a  range  engineer  at  the 
U.S.  Naval  Weapons  Center  at  China  Lake, 
Calif. 

Since  1975,  Bob  Meader  has  been  a  study 
manager  in  the  Navigation  and  Coastal  Branch 
of  the  Corps  of  Engineers,  Mobile  District. 
Last  spring,  he  was  one  of  15  Corps  employees 
selected  to  attend  an  eleven-month  training 
course  for  water  resource  planners  at  the  Board 
of  Engineers  for  Rivers  and  Harbors  in  Fort  Be- 
lvoir,  Va.  The  intensive  course  covered  a  full 
range  of  planning  and  engineering  activities 
from  beach  erosion  projects  to  societal 
impacts  of  water  supply.  A  bicycling  devotee, 
like  Ed  Delano,  '30,  he  commutes  by  bike  to 
work.  In  five  years  he  pedaled  over  28,000 
miles.  Some  time  ago,  he  went  to  Delano's 
house  where  he  received  a  friendly  welcome 
and  a  glass  of  apple  juice.  Bob  is  studying  for 
his  ms  through  the  University  of  Alabama. 

Dr.  Michael  Paige  presently  serves  as 
manager  of  product  quality  assurance  at  Wang 
Laboratories,  Lowell,  Mass. 

Wayne  Pierce  holds  the  post  of  section 
head  at  Exxon  Research  &  Engineering, 
Florham  Park,  N.J. 

Kenneth  Roberts  serves  as  controller  of 
the  central  region  for  Mobil  Corp.  He, 
Kathleen,  and  three  children  reside  in  Bar- 
rington,  111. 

Frederick  White  is  a  development  engi- 
neer at  Ingersoll  Rand,  Painted  Post,  N. Y. 


1969 


fames  Alford  is  engineering  representative  at 
Travelers  Insurance  in  Boston.  Also,  he  serves 
as  commanding  officer  of  maintenance  unit, 
usee  Reserve,  in  Boston. 

Thomas  Fournier  is  district  engineer  at 
Puget  Sound  Power  &  Light  in  Burlington, 
Washington. 

Peter  Grosch  was  named  manager  of  re- 
tail marketing  for  Soabar,  a  leading  supplier  of 
tags,  labels,  and  in-plant  marketing  systems. 
He  is  responsible  for  the  overall  marketing  di- 
rection of  ocr-a  as  well  as  conventional  price 
marking  systems.  Prior  to  his  promotion, 
Grosch  spent  about  two  years  as  manager  of 
advanced  systems  development  and  over  three 
years  as  product  manager.  He  has  a  master's 
degree  in  marketing  from  Emory  University, 
Atlanta,  Ga. 

Dr.  Richard  Gross  serves  as  a  research 
leader  at  Dow  Chemical,  Plaquemine,  Louisi- 
ana. 

David  Johnson  holds  the  post  of  depart- 
ment chief  at  Western  Electric  in  Morristown, 
N.J. 

Presently,  Michael  Joseph  is  a  senior 
physicist  at  Herron  Optical  Co.,  Long  Beach, 
Calif. 


George  McCandless,  Jr.  is  an  instructor  in 
the  department  of  economics  at  Dartmouth 
College. 

Vinubhai  Shah  works  as  principal  engi- 
neer at  Gilbert/Commonwealth  in  Jackson, 
Mich. 

In  September,  Peter  Walsh  received  his 
mba  from  Suffolk  University.  He  is  district 
manager  of  McGraw-Edison,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 


1971 


1970 


►  Married:  Peter  G.  Bladen  and  Janice  A. 
Baumhover  on  September  20,  1980  in  Hender- 
son, North  Carolina.  The  bride  is  a  graduate  of 
North  Carolina  State  University,  where  her 
husband  received  his  ms.  They  are  both  em- 
ployed at  Bechtel  Power  Corporation  in 
Gaithersburg,  Md. 

Todd  Akin  is  assistant  manager  of  mainte- 
nance at  Laclede  Steel.  He  and  his  wife  live  in 
St.  Louis  and  have  one  child. 

Still  with  American  Cyanamid,  Philip 
Bartlett  is  presently  business  manager  for  the 
firm  in  Wayne,  N.J. 

Peter  Billington  is  an  assistant  professor 
at  Northeastern  University,  Boston.  A  pbx> 
candidate  at  Cornell,  he  is  working  on  his 
thesis.  His  major  is  operations  management 
and  his  minor  is  quantitative  methods  in  busi- 
ness. 

Bernard  Dodge,  who  will  soon  receive  his 
phi),  is  an  assistant  professor  in  the  depart- 
ment of  educational  technology  at  San  Diego 
State  University. 

Roger  Etherington  works  as  a  technical 
service  representative  at  Vulcan  Materials  Co., 
Chemical  Division,  Birmingham,  Alabama. 

John  Garrity  spoke  on  the  Maine  nuclear 
referendum  before  the  Dexter  Kiwanis  Club  in 
August.  He  joined  Maine  Yankee's  reactor  en- 
gineering department  in  1970.  He  participated 
as  engineering  supervisor  in  the  start-up  pro- 
gram. In  1974,  he  started  at  Central  Maine 
Power  Co.  as  project  engineer  for  the  Sears  Is- 
land nuclear  project.  Presently  he  is  director  of 
nuclear  engineering  and  licensing  at  Maine 
Yankee.  Formerly,  he  was  chairman  of  the 
Boston  section  of  the  American  Nuclear  Soci- 
ety. 

Will  Heald  is  a  self-employed  partner  in 
real  estate  investments  in  Phoenix,  Arizona. 

Dr.  Robert  Plante  is  an  assistant  professor 
of  management  at  Purdue  University,  Lafay- 
ette, Indiana.  Recently,  he  received  his  phD 
from  the  University  of  Georgia. 

Joseph  Toce,  who  has  his  pho  in  biochem- 
istry from  the  University  of  Wisconsin,  is  a 
chemist  at  Sigma  Chemical  Co.,  St.  Louis, 
Missouri.  Wife  Suzanne  is  an  md. 


>■  Married:  Donald  H.  Campbell,  Jr.  and  Pa- 
mela J.  Hale  in  Enfield,  Connecticut  on  Octo- 
ber 4,  1980.  Mrs.  Campbell,  who  is  employed 
by  Alvin  and  Company,  Bloomfield,  graduated 
from  Enrico  Fermi  High  School,  Enfield.  The 
bridegroom  works  for  Combustion  Engineer- 
ing, Windsor. 

Keith  E.  Hongisto  and  Susan  E.  Johnson 
in  Chippewa,  Pennsylvania  on  September  6, 
1980.  Mrs.  Hongisto  graduated  from  West 
Chester  State  College,  and  is  employed  by 
Sargent  Electric  Co.,  Shippingport,  Pa.  The 
bridegroom  works  for  Stone  &  Webster,  also  in 
Shippingport. 

►  Kent  Borner  works  as  division  manager 
at  Phaseliner,  Syosset,  Long  Island,  N.  Y  The 
Bomers  reside  in  Griswold,  Conn. 

Richard  Carroll  holds  the  post  of  vice 
president  of  manufacturing  at  Hydr-O-Matic 
at  Claremont  &  Baney  in  Ashland,  Ohio. 

Neil  Collins  holds  the  position  of  produc- 
tion administrator  and  project  engineer  at 
Daverman  &  Associates  in  Syracuse,  N.Y.  He 
has  an  ms  in  management  science  and  engi- 
neering from  WPI,  and  also  graduated  from  the 
School  of  Industrial  Management.  He  just 
completed  two  years  as  chairman  of  the 
Worcester  County  section  of  ieee. 

Greg  Dickson  serves  as  Michigan  division 
manager  of  industrial  hygiene  for  Dow  Chemi- 
cal Co.,  Midland,  Mich. 

Dr.  Paul  Furcinitti  continues  as  a  research 
associate  at  Columbia  University.  He  is  with 
Brookhaven  National  Lab.,  Upton,  N.Y. 

William  Helli well  was  promoted  to  man- 
ager of  contract  service  engineering  in  the 
service  division  of  Riley  Stoker  in  Worcester. 
With  the  company  since  graduation,  he  had 
been  district  service  manager  in  the  Denver  of- 
fice. He  has  an  mba  from  the  University  of 
Denver. 

William  Leslie  is  employed  as  a  site  man- 
ager at  Westinghouse  in  Bay  City  Texas. 

Emile  Levasseur  works  as  a  manufactur- 
ing engineer  at  King-Seeley  Thermos  Co., 
Norwich,  Conn. 

Peter  Markunas  currently  holds  the  post 
of  chief  of  the  facilities  branch  of  the  Depart- 
ment of  Transportation  in  Cambridge,  Mass. 
He  often  sees  Prof.  Roger  Borden,  '61,  who  is 
also  at  the  dot  on  leave  from  WPI  for  the  aca- 
demic year. 

Donald  Milia  is  employed  as  a  salesman 
at  the  Torrington  Co.,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 

Anthony  Schepis  serves  as  marketing 
manager  for  the  atm  division  at  ALFA-Laval, 
Inc.,  Poughkeepsie,  N.Y. 

Mitchell  Soivenski  is  a  systems  analyst  at 
Liberty  Mutual  in  Portsmouth,  N.H. 

Donald  Usher  received  his  mba  from  Kent 
State  in  May.  He  was  a  member  of  the  WPI 
alumni  crew  team  which  defeated  the  Holy 
Cross  alumni  crew,  as  well  as  the  Holy  Cross 
varsity  crew,  over  Homecoming. 

Ron  Zarrella  recently  resigned  as  director 
of  engineering  at  Clairol  to  become  vice  presi- 
dent of  manufacturing  with  the  Danskin  divi- 
sion of  International  Playtex  in  York,  Pa. 


1972 


►  Married:  John  P.  Gal  lien  to  Sandra  J.  Treacy 
in  Reading,  Massachusetts  on  September  13, 
1980.  Mrs.  Gallien  graduated  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Massachusetts,  Amherst,  and  manages 
Racquetime  Club  in  Woburn.  The  groom 
serves  as  a  project  engineer  at  gte  Sylvania  in 
Danvers. 

►  James  Altoonian  is  a  partner  in  Harvard 
Management  Company,  Boston.  He  trades 
equity  securities  for  the  Harvard  University 
Endowment  Fund. 

James  Andruchow,  a  building  contractor 
for  Stephen  Andruchow,  Inc.,  West  Warwick, 
R.I.,  is  a  sponsor  of  the  West  Warwick  Slow- 
Pitch  League  and  of  West  Warwick  Youth  Soc- 
cer. He  belongs  to  the  town's  tax  assessment 
board  of  review  and  serves  as  first  vice  chair- 
man of  the  West  Warwick  Republican  Town 
Committee. 

Peter  Bert asi  serves  as  market  manager  at 
Olin  Chemicals  in  Stamford,  Conn. 

Richard  Ellis  works  for  O.D.  Hopkins  As- 
sociates, Contoocook,  N.H. 

Bruce  Hall  continues  as  a  contract  admin- 
istrator for  the  U.S.  Navy  at  the  Portsmouth 
Naval  Shipyard  in  Kittery,  Me. 

Ed  Kleinman  has  received  his  pho  in 
chemistry  from  the  University  of  California, 
Berkeley.  He  is  now  working  at  Pfizer  in  Gro- 
ton,  Conn,  as  a  research  scientist  in  medicinal 
chemistry. 

David  LeBlanc  serves  as  a  sales  represent- 
ative for  GE's  Wire  &  Cable  Department  in 
Bridgeport,  Conn.  He  is  district  representative 
in  Massachusetts  and  Rhode  Island  from  his 
office  in  Natick. 

Henry  Margolis  continues  as  a  staff  asso- 
ciate for  the  department  of  physical  chemistry, 
Forsyth  Dental  Center,  Boston,  Mass.  He  has 
a  PhD  from  the  University  of  Vermont. 

Richard  Meighan  is  employed  as  district 
manager  and  sales  engineer  at  Warren  Pumps 
in  Indianapolis,  Indiana. 

Continuing  with  Clairol,  Richard  Sojka  is 
currently  manager  of  N/S  operations  for  the 
firm  in  Stamford,  Conn. Joseph  Szlosek  works 
as  a  production  supervisor  at  Imperial  Chemi- 
cal industries  in  Marshall,  Texas. 

Richard  Wolke  holds  the  post  of  advanced 
manufacturing  engineer  at  ge  in  Lynchburg, 
Va.  His  specialty  is  robotics. 


1973 


►  Married:  Richard  A.  Choiniere  and  Sharon 
A.  Vegnone  in  Webster,  Massachusetts  on  Sep- 
tember 14,  1980.  The  bride  graduated  horn 
Dudley  Hall  Career  Institute.  She  is  a  medical 
secretary  in  Worcester.  Her  husband  serves  as 
quality  control  manager  for  Feecon  Corp., 
Westboro,  Mass. 


22  /  Winter  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


Maryann  Bagdis  Pace  and  John  S.  Runge 
in  Dallas,  Texas  on  September  26,  1980.  The 
bride  has  accepted  a  position  as  director  of 
Data  Processing  for  GENCOM,  Inc.,  in  Dallas. 
The  company  services  and  sells  beepers,  mo- 
bile telephones  and  telephone  answering  serv- 
ices in  ten  U.S.  cities.  Maryann's  job  is  to 
design  software  and  select  appropriate  hard- 
ware. The  firm  has  no  computers. 

Alden  J.  Palmer  and  Cathlin  A.  Houlihan 
in  Manchester  Center,  Vermont,  on  July  19, 
1980.  The  bride,  an  elementary  school 
teacher,  is  a  graduate  of  Eastern  Connecticut 
State  College.  In  September,  she  began  study- 
ing for  her  master's  degree  in  education  at  the 
College.  Her  husband  is  a  senior  scientific  pro- 
gram analyst  at  the  Pratt  &  Whitney  Division 
of  United  Technologies,  East  Hartford,  Conn. 

►  Fermo  Bianchi  is  area  engineer  at  Can- 
bro  Corp.,  Pittsfield,  Maine. 

In  June,  Richard  Brontoli  will  start  gradu- 
ate school  in  construction  management  under 
a  fully-funded  Army  program.  Presently  he  is 
captain  and  company  commander  with  a  U.S. 
Army  engineer  construction  company  in 
Baumholder,  Germany. 

Leo  Buchakjian  serves  as  manager  of  ds 
processing  for  ge  in  Cincinnati,  Ohio.  He  has 
an  ms  in  materials  science  from  mit. 

Stephen  Dolan,  who  holds  an  md  from 
uvm,  is  now  resident  physician  in  the  depart- 
ment of  medicine  at  the  University  of  Mis- 
souri. 

Andrew  Langdon  is  a  financial  analyst  at 
Rockwell  International  in  Anaheim,  Calif. 

Recently,  Kenneth  Lexier  was  appointed 
as  curriculum  coordinator  and  project  writer 
for  the  public  schools  in  Uxbridge,  Mass.  He 
was  chosen  for  the  newly-created  post  over  28 
other  applicants.  Previously,  he  held  a  similar 
position  with  the  Attleboro  School  System. 
He  has  also  taught  at  the  Worcester  Alterna- 
tive High  School  and  worked  as  a  desk  lecturer 
at  Worcester  State  College  and  Assumption. 
He  holds  an  ma  from  Assumption  and  an  edu- 
cation doctorate  from  Boston  University. 

John  Luikey,  Jr.  works  as  second  shift  su- 
perintendent at  ITT  Royal  Electric  in  Paw- 
tucket,  R.I. 

Frederick  Paris  serves  as  divisional  project 
engineer  at  Ludlow  Corp.  in  Needham 
Heights,  Mass. 

Albert  Popoli  continues  as  senior  struc- 
tural designer  at  Stone  &  Webster  in  Boston. 

J.  Diane  Pritchard  is  now  employed  by 
Barrington  College  in  Barrington,  R.I. 

Thomas  Radican  works  as  an  area  engi- 
neer for  American  Hoechst  in  Coventry,  R.I. 

Robert  Schultz  owns  Riverpoint  Tool, 
Inc.,  Providence,  R.I.  He  is  moving  to  Rhode 
Island  after  working  in  Alaska  as  operations 
manager  for  Alaska  International  Construc- 
tion. He  holds  a  degree  in  arctic  engineering 
from  the  University  of  Alaska. 

Gary  Selden,  who  is  with  ge  in  Warren, 
Michigan,  serves  as  manager  of  tungsten  car- 
bide powder  production  and  quality  control  for 
international  projects. 

Previously  with  Material  Service  Corp., 
Tim  Whitehouse  is  now  plant  superintendent 
at  A.R.C.  Kyle,  Inc.,  Lithonia,  Ga.  The  firm  is 
a  large  concrete  pipe  producer  in  the  south- 
east. 


1974 


►  Married:  Charles  W.  Fallon  and  Miss  Judith 
L.  Janson  in  Shrewsbury,  Massachusetts  on 
August  9,  1980.  Mrs.  Fallon,  a  student  at 
Quinsigamond  Community  College,  is  em- 
ployed at  WPI.  The  groom  works  as  a  field- 
service  technician  at  Feecon  Corp.,  Westboro. 

+-Bom:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robert  Lindberg, 
Jr.  their  first  child,  a  daughter,  Bethany  Chris- 
tine, on  August  17,  1980.  Bob  is  a  research 
physicist  at  Naval  Research  Laboratory  in 
Washington,  D.C.  Presently,  he  is  assigned  to 
Columbia  University,  New  York  City,  where 
he  is  pursuing  his  doctorate  in  mechanical  en- 
gineering. 

Brian  Anderson  holds  the  post  of  sales  en- 
gineer at  Tyson  Controls,  Inc.,  Mansfield, 
Mass. 

Dean  Anderson  is  employed  as  a  project 
engineer  at  Perini  Corporation  in 
Framingham,  Mass. 

Subhash  Bajaj  works  as  a  quality  control 
manager  at  Hitchiner  Mfg.  Co.  in  O' Fallon, 
Mo.  The  company  makes  non-ferrous  invest- 
ment castings  for  aerospace,  computer,  and 
communication  industries. 

Davis  Balestracci  serves  as  a  statistician 
at  fmc  Corporation  in  Princeton,  N.J.  He  is 
slated  to  receive  two  advanced  degrees  from 
the  University  of  Minnesota  in  June. 

Leonard  Brzozowski  serves  as  division 
materials  manager  at  Midland  Brake  Division- 
Midland  Ross  Corporation,  Owosso,  Mich. 

Don  Bucci  is  now  a  senior  project  engi- 
neer at  International  Coal  Refining  Corp.,  Al- 
lentown,  Pa.  The  company  is  a  subsidiary  of 
Air  Products  and  Wheelabrator  Frye.  Bucci  has 
an  ms  from  the  University  of  Pittsburgh.  He  is 
a  registered  professional  engineer  in  Pennsyl- 
vania. 

Armand  Catalani  holds  the  post  of  direc- 
tor of  customer  support  operations  at  Geo.  J. 
Meyer  Mfg.  in  Cudahy,  Wisconsin. 

Robert  Cimikowski  is  a  computer  special- 
ist at  Martin  Marietta  in  Denver,  Colorado. 

William  Dyson  is  senior  research 
engineer  at  Monsanto,  St.  Peters,  Missouri. 
Recently,  he  received  his  pho  in  physics  from 
West  Virginia  University. 

James  Edwards  is  presently  a  graduate  stu- 
dent at  Iowa  State  University. 

John  Gilgis  holds  the  post  of  principal  pro- 
grammer at  Data  General  in  Westboro,  Mass. 
Previously,  he  worked  in  DG's  national  tech- 
nical support  and  in  new  products  support  in 
North  Carolina  for  field  engineering. 

H.  Edward  Goetsch  serves  as  assistant 
chief  engineer  for  advanced  products  at  Stana- 
dyne,  Inc.,  in  Windsor,  Conn.  He  has  an  msee 
from  rpi,  is  married,  and  has  one  child. 

David  Korzec  has  been  promoted  to  su- 
pervisor of  general  construction  at  Northeast 
Utilities,  Millstone  nuclear  power  plant.  Cur- 
rently he  attends  courses  at  the  Groton  branch 
of  the  Hartford  Graduate  Center.  He  joined  nu 
in  1977.  He  and  his  wife,  who  is  an  interior  de- 
signer for  Home  Beautiful  of  New  London, 
Conn.,  live  in  Waterford. 


fames  Martin  works  as  frame  foreman  at 
New  England  Telephone  in  Manchester,  N.H. 

Harvey  Neilson,  now  separated  from  the 
u.s.a.f.,  is  currently  a  full-time  student  at  Bos- 
ton University. 

Garry  Nunes  is  construction  supervisor  at 
Stone  &  Webster  in  Piketon,  Ohio. 

Grason-Stadler  has  appointed  Janice 
Painter  as  marketing  manager.  In  1975,  she 
joined  the  organization  as  a  customer  training 
manager  in  the  Behavorial  Instrumentation 
Group.  In  1976,  she  became  associated  with 
the  gsi  middle-ear  product  line  as  a  marketing 
assistant,  and  then  as  product  manager.  She 
has  traveled  extensively  for  csi  presenting 
training  sessions  and  demonstrations.  As  mar- 
keting manager,  she  is  responsible  for  the  total 
marketing  effort  at  Grason-Stadler,  which  has 
been  manufacturing  hearing-testing  instru- 
ments for  thirty  years. 

Daniel  Palmer,  a  project  engineer  at 
Ebasco  Services,  is  pursuing  his  mba  at  the 
University  of  Houston. 

George  Ranney  continues  as  process  engi- 
neer at  Uniroyal  Chemical  Co.,  Giesmar,  Lou- 
isiana. 

Robert  Trotter  is  a  project  engineer  at 
Stanadyne  Inc.  in  Windsor,  Conn. 

Camp  Dresser  &  McKee,  Inc.,  New  York 
City,  employs  Peter  Tunnicliffe  as  director  of 
construction  services.  He  is  studying  for  his 

Richard  Ventre  is  area  engineer  for  du 
Pont  in  Wilmington,  Delaware. 


1975 


►  Married:  Vicki  J.  Cowart  and  Michael 
Grieco  from  Rome,  New  York  in  April.  The 
bride,  who  has  her  ms  in  geophysics  from  Col- 
orado School  of  Mines,  has  been  a  geophysicist 
in  the  oil  and  gas  exploration  program  at 
Mobil  since  1977.  Currently,  she  is  involved 
with  the  offshore  California  Federal  Lease  Sale 
Program  and  the  Wyoming  Green  River  Basin 
Project.  Her  husband,  a  computer  geologist  for 
Mobil,  holds  degrees  from  the  University  of 
Syracuse. 

Jean  M.  Reny  to  Thomas  A.  Runge  on  De- 
cember 13,  1980  in  Kalamazoo,  Michigan. 
The  bride  is  a  chemist  in  chemical  process  r&d 
at  the  Upjohn  Company  in  Kalamazoo.  The 
groom  recently  completed  his  phD  in  organic 
chemistry  at  the  University  of  Wisconsin- 
Madison  under  Dr.  Barry  M.  Trost.  He  will 
also  be  employed  by  Upjohn. 

►  Vinay  Aggarwal  serves  as  a  member  of 
the  technical  staff  at  gte  Research  Labs,  Inc., 
Waltham,  Mass. 

Jon  Anderson  continues  as  a  lawyer  with 
Peterson,  Gibson  &  Noble,  Montpelier,  Vt. 

Paul  Bianchet  serves  as  a  senior  field  engi- 
neer at  Combustion  Engineering,  Windsor, 
Conn.  He  has  his  mba  from  rpi. 


Erik  Brodin,  who  is  with  General  Motors, 
represented  his  company  at  a  placement  semi- 
nar held  in  November  at  WPI.  Robert  Morin 
represented  Stanadyne  at  the  same  seminar. 

Bruce  D'Ambrosio  is  a  programmer  ana- 
lyst at  Pacific  Sierra  Research  Co.  in  Santa 
Monica,  Calif.  He  received  his  ms  in  computer 
science  from  the  University  of  Southern  Cali- 
fornia. 

Harry  Danberg  works  as  a  process  engi- 
neer at  Celanese  Chemical  Corp.,  Houston, 
Texas. 

Navy  Lt.j.g.  William  Demers  has  returned 
from  a  deployment  in  the  Mediterranian  Sea. 
He  is  personnel  officer  of  Carrier  Airborne 
Early  Warning  Squadron  (vaw)  123,  based  at 
the  Naval  Air  Station,  Norfolk,  Va.  While  de- 
ployed, his  squadron  was  embarked  aboard  the 
aircraft  carrier  USS  Saratoga.  During  the 
cruise,  the  crew  visited  a  number  of  ports  from 
Palma  de  Mallorca  to  Tunis.  The  ship  partici- 
pated in  several  training  exercises,  including 
the  nato  exercise,  "Dawn  Patrol." 

Robert  Donle  is  project  engineer  for  Pa- 
cific Construction  Co.,  Ltd.,  Honolulu,  Ha- 
waii. 

Allen  Downs  has  started  the  mba  program 
at  Harvard  Business  School. 

Jay  Gainsboro  holds  the  position  of  presi- 
dent at  Opus  Telecom  Inc.  in  Weston,  Mass. 
Will  George  is  now  assistant  district  at- 
torney at  the  Worcester  County  Courthouse. 
Maurice  Giroux  works  as  a  senior  engi- 
neer at  Martin  Marietta  Aerospace  in  Denver, 
Colorado.  He  has  an  mba  from  the  University 
of  Utah.  Presently,  he  is  concerned  with  space 
shuttle  communication  system  engineering. 
Lt.  Daniel  Halstead  continues  with  the 
U.S.  Navy  at  Pearl  Harbor. 

Kenneth  Howell  works  as  a  junior  ac- 
countant at  Aimes  Department  Store  in  Rocky 
Hill,  Conn. 

Terry  Itameri-Kinter,  and  Kristina,  whom 
he  married  last  June,  spent  a  two-month  hon- 
eymoon bicycling  through  Germany,  the 
Netherlands,  Belgium,  Luxembourg,  Switzer- 
land, and  Italy.  Currently,  the  couple  resides  in 
Turku,  Finland,  where  Terry  is  an  English  in- 
structor at  Inlingua  Kieliopisto. 

Gary  Kiontke  was  promoted  to  senior  ac- 
tuarial assistant  at  Monarch  Life  Insurance 
Co.,  Springfield,  Mass.  He  joined  the  firm  in 
1977,  and  previously  held  the  position  of  actu- 
arial assistant.  Recently,  he  took  courses  at  the 
School  of  Insurance  at  the  University  of  Con- 
necticut. 

Robert  Lord,  Jr.  is  employed  as  a  district 
sales  engineer  at  Torrington  Co.  in  Westport, 
Conn. 

Ronnie  Materniak,  who  is  presently  en- 
rolled in  the  mba  program  at  the  University  of 
Richmond,  is  area  engineer  for  du  Pont  in  the 
construction  division  at  the  Spruance  plant. 
Mark  McCabe  holds  the  position  of  pro- 
ject engineer-manager  at  Wendel  Kent  &  Co., 
Inc.,  Sarasota,  Fla. 

Robert  Murray  holds  the  post  of  senior 
support  engineer  at  Northrop  Corp.  in  Nor- 
wood, Mass.  He  has  been  with  Northrop  since 
November  of  1979. 


Paul  O'Brien  is  presently  a  seminarian 
studying  for  Catholic  priesthood  at  Pope  John 
xxiii  National  Seminary  in  Weston,  Mass., 
where  he  will  receive  his  master's  of  divinity. 
He  has  an  mba  from  the  University  of  New 
Haven. 

Robert  Simon  holds  the  title  of  business 
analyst  at  Allied  Chemical  Corp.,  Chemicals 
Company,  in  Morristown,  N.J. 

Dr.  Kazem  Sohraby  is  employed  as  senior 
engineer  at  Computer  Sciences  Corp.,  Falls 
Church,  Va.  He  has  a  phx>  in  electrical  engi- 
neering from  Polytechnic  Institute  of  New 
York. 

Steve  Sweeney  works  as  an  industrial  en- 
gineer for  the  Department  of  the  Navy  in  Pitts- 
field,  Mass.  He  received  his  mba  from  the 
University  of  Hartford. 

Presently,  Donald  Taddia  is  employed  as  a 
project  manager  at  usatr  in  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 

Morris  Weisman  is  employed  as  a  me- 
teorologist at  the  National  Center  for  Atmo- 
spheric Research  in  Boulder,  Colorado. 

Scott  Wilson  is  now  a  project  gyro  engi- 
neer at  Timex  Corp.,  Middlebury,  Conn.  He 
and  his  bride,  Nora,  reside  in  Wolcott. 

Jon  Wyman,  a  lieutenant  in  the  Civil  En- 
gineer Corps,  U.S.  Navy,  just  completed  a  tour 
with  deployments  to  Rota,  Spain  and  Guan- 
tanamo  Bay,  Cuba.  He  and  Rhonda  have  three 
children  and  live  in  Gainesville,  Fla.  Cur- 
rently, Jon  is  working  for  his  ms  in  engineering 
and  construction  management  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Florida,  Gainesville. 


1976 


►  Married:  Scott  R.  Bamford  to  Patricia 
Devine  on  October  18,  1980  in  Warwick, 
Rhode  Island.  The  bride,  who  has  an  under- 
graduate and  graduate  degrees  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  Rhode  Island,  has  been  an 
employment  counselor  for  the  state.  Her  hus- 
band has  a  master's  degree  in  ocean  engineer- 
ing from  URL 

Mark  K.  Coulson  and  Diane  M.  Ciaccio 
on  September  27,  1980  in  Massachusetts.  Mrs. 
Coulson  received  her  degree  in  biology  from 
Skidmore  College  and  presently  manages  her 
own  business.  The  groom  is  employed  as  a  nu- 
clear engineer  in  Connecticut  and  is  studying 
for  his  mba. 

Craig  J.  Plourde  and  Mary  A.  Parese  in 
North  Haven,  Connecticut  on  October  18, 
1980.  The  bride,  an  engineer  for  snetco,  grad- 
uated from  Villanova  with  a  bs  in  biology  and 
holds  an  ms  degree  in  environmental  engineer- 
ing from  the  University  of  Connecticut.  The 
bridegroom  serves  as  a  senior  systems  engi- 
neer at  cbt. 

John  Ryle  HI  and  Wendy  D.  Rockefeller  on 
May  31,  1980.  The  bride  graduated  from  Rad- 
ford College  in  Virginia.  Her  husband  is  a  ben- 
efit specialist  at  Buck  Consultants,  Inc.  in 
New  York  City. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Winter  1981  /  23 


Paul  R.  J.  Selent  to  Gail  J.  Bringsauf  on 
October  12,  1980  in  Kinnelon,  New  Jersey. 
The  bride  graduated  from  Montville  Township 
High  School  and  is  employed  as  a  technical 
clerk  at  Exxon  Research  and  Engineering  in 
Florham  Park,  N.J.,  where  her  husband  is  an 
electrical  engineer.  He  has  received  his  mas- 
ter's degree  from  rpi. 

>-Bom:  to  Susan  and  Jeremy  Brown  twin 
daughters,  Melissa  Margaret  and  Glenna  Eliza- 
beth, on  July  21,  1980.  Their  daughter,  Emily, 
will  be  three  in  February.  Brown  recently  com- 
pleted the  fellowship  examinations  of  the  So- 
ciety of  Actuaries  and  was  promoted  to 
assistant  actuary  at  State  Mutual  in  Worcester. 

►Army  Major  William  Baker  is  now  sta- 
tioned at  Ft.  Leavenworth,  Kansas.  In  June,  he 
will  be  headquartered  at  Ft.  Lee,  Va. 

Peter  Barbadora  is  employed  as  assistant 
supervisor  of  quality  assurance  at  Perini  Power 
Construction,  Framingham,  Mass. 

Joseph  Betro  is  a  doctoral  candidate  at  the 
University  of  Illinois  in  Champaign-Urbana. 
Two  years  ago  he  received  his  msee  from  the 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

Alan  Briggs  was  recently  promoted  to 
maintenance  supervisor  at  du  Pont's  neoprene 
manufacturing  facility  in  LaPlace,  La.  He  is 
continuing  to  work  for  his  mba  on  a  part-time 
basis. 

James  Buss,  an  associate  of  the  Society  of 
Actuaries,  has  been  advanced  to  senior  actuar- 
ial associate  at  State  Mutual  in  Worcester.  He 
had  been  an  actuarial  associate. 

W.  Kim  Colich  serves  as  associate  buyer 
at  Newport  News  Shipbuilding,  Newport 
News,  Va.  The  Coliches  have  one  child  and 
live  in  Hampton. 

Albert  Cooley  serves  as  product  manager 
at  the  Codex  subsidiary  of  Motorola  in  Mans- 
field, Mass.  Presently,  he  is  working  on  his  ms 
at  bu.  Earlier,  he  had  been  with  rca  Solid 
State. 

David  DeMeo  continues  as  a  lieutenant 
with  the  U.S.  Navy. 

Loretta  Deming  is  associate  project  engi- 
neer at  Clairol  in  Stamford,  Conn.  She  has  an 
ms  from  mit. 

Sidney  Formal  is  presently  with  usaed, 
Baltimore  District,  at  Ft.  Belvoir,  Va. 

Daniel  Garfi  is  employed  as  a  consultant 
at  Spiridellis  and  Associates,  Inc.,  Piscataway, 
N.J. 

Norman  Gariepy  is  now  a  cpa  and  senior 
auditor  at  Touche  Ross  &  Co.,  Worcester.  He 
holds  an  ms  in  accounting  from  Northeastern. 

Scott  Gowing  is  with  David  Taylor  Naval 
Ship  Research  and  Development  Center  in  Be- 
thesda,  Md. 

Previously  a  transportation  planner  in 
Hartford,  Conn.,  John  Griffiths  is  now  a  pro- 
ject development  engineer  at  Tri-Met,  Port- 
land, Oregon.  He  has  an  msce  from  the 
University  of  Virginia. 

John  Hamilton  continues  as  chief  project 
engineer  at  Raymond  International  Builders  in 
Houston,  Texas. 


George  Hefferon  has  received  his  pho  in 
photo-chemistry  from  Columbia  University, 
where  he  also  earned  his  master's  degree.  Pres- 
ently, he  and  his  wife,  Marguerite,  are  at  Ohio 
State  University  in  Columbus,  where  he  is  do- 
ing post-doctoral  work,  and  she  teaches  Eng- 
lish. Mrs.  Hefferon  is  working  on  her  pho  in 
English  at  Ohio  State. 

Kansas  Gas  and  Electric  Company  re- 
cently named  Thomas  Keenan  as  director  of 
nuclear  operations.  Previously,  he  was  director 
of  engineering  and  operations  at  Vermont  Yan- 
kee Nuclear  Power  Corporation,  Vernon,  Vt. 
In  his  new  post,  he  will  be  responsible  for  the 
operation  of  Wolf  Creek  Generating  Station 
which  is  under  construction  near  Burlington, 
Kansas.  A  Naval  Academy  graduate,  Keenan, 
who  served  several  years  in  the  Navy,  attended 
the  Naval  Nuclear  Power  School,  and  for  six 
years  was  chief  engineer  for  the  USS  Robert  E. 
Lee  nuclear  submarine.  With  Yankee  since 
1969,  in  1977,  he  was  named  director  of  engi- 
neering and  operations  for  Vermont  Yankee 
Nuclear  Power  Corporation. 

Kenneth  Korcz  works  as  a  field  engineer 
for  ge  in  Atlanta,  Ga. 

A  self-employed  consultant,  Marc 
Langlois  recently  received  his  ms  in  materials 
engineering  from  WPI.  He  is  located  in  Deca- 
tur, Ga. 

Roger  Leighton  is  an  automation  engineer 
at  Eastman  Kodak,  Rochester,  N.Y. 

John  Mangiagli,  Jr.  is  a  technical  service 
engineer  at  Ingersoll-Rand  Co.  in  Painted  Post, 
N.Y. 

Michael  Miller  continues  as  a  captain  in 
the  U.S.  Army.  He  is  operations  officer  of  a 
helicopter  flight  unit. 

Kathleen  Morse  of  Digital  Equipment  Co. 
was  a  panelist  at  a  placement  seminar  held  at 
WPI  in  November. 

Stephen  Rourke  has  been  promoted  to 
quality  assurance  analyst  at  the  New  England 
Power  Exchange  (nepex).  The  operating  arm  of 
the  New  England  Power  Pool,  nepex  coordi- 
nates the  production  and  transmission  of  elec- 
tricity in  New  England.  Rourke  joined  nepex  in 
1976  as  an  assistant  engineer.  He  advanced  to 
associate  engineer  in  1978.  Currently,  he  is 
completing  his  mba  at  Western  New  England 
College,  Springfield,  Mass.  He  belongs  to  the 
ieee  and  is  chairman  of  the  nepex-neplan  Ac- 
tivities Committee,  a  recreational  group  for 
employees.  He  is  a  member  of  the  Cathedral 
Chapter  at  Christ  Church  Cathedral,  Spring- 
field. 

Continuing  with  ge,  Eugene  Savoie  is 
currently  district  sales  manager  for  the  firm  in 
Overland  Park,  Kansas. 

Steven  Tremblay  is  executive  director  of 
Alpha  I,  South  Portland,  Maine. 

Presently,  Mike  White  works  for  Water 
and  Power  Resources  Service  for  the  U.S.  De- 
partment of  Interior  in  Klamath  Falls,  Oregon. 

Jeff  Wilcox  holds  the  post  of  administra- 
tive analyst  at  Mobil  Oil  in  Mission,  Kansas. 
He  has  an  mba  from  the  University  of  Pitts- 
burgh. 


1977 


►  Married:  James  B.  Howe  and  Barbara  A. 
Merriam  in  Baldwinsville,  New  York  on  Octo- 
ber 11,  1980.  Mrs.  Howe  graduated  from  Po- 
welson  Business  Institute  and  is  with  Niagara 
Mohawk  Power  Corp.',  where  her  husband 
serves  as  an  engineer. 

Charles  M.  Johnson  and  Janet  K.  Van 
Wert  in  Holden,  Massachusetts  on  August  16, 
1980.  Mrs.  Johnson  is  a  graduate  of  UMass- 
Amherst,  where  she  received  a  bs  in  elemen- 
tary education.  The  bridegroom  attends 
Cornell  University  Graduate  School  of  Busi- 
ness. 

John  J.  Osowski  and  Debra  Smith  in 
Canandaigua,  New  York  on  August  23,  1980. 
The  bride,  a  graduate  of  Community  College 
of  the  Finger  Lakes,  is  a  student  at  Rochester 
Institute  of  Technology,  where  her  husband  is 
also  enrolled.  She  is  a  customer  service  repre- 
sentative for  Mobil  Chemical  Co.  The  bride- 
groom is  temporarily  assigned  to  Mobil 
Chemical  Canada  Ltd.,  Belleville. 

►  Michael  Abrams  is  a  senior  engineering 
technician  at  Geo  Source  in  Houston,  Texas. 
Currently,  he  is  working  on  his  msee  at  the 
University  of  Houston. 

Glenn  Andrews  serves  as  a  technical  pro- 
grammer at  Travelers  Insurance  Co.,  Hartford, 
Conn. 

Christopher  Baker  and  his  wife,  Nancy 
are  currently  residing  in  Lawrence,  Mass., 
where  they  were  married  last  October.  Baker 
writes:  "Nancy  didn't  like  cactus,  so  we 
moved  back  to  New  England  from  Arizona." 
Nancy  graduated  from  Northern  Essex  Com- 
munity College  and  currently  works  for 
Cressey-Dockham  Co.,  while  her  husband  is 
with  Edwards  &  Kelcey  in  Boston. 

William  Cronin  continues  with  Digital 
Equipment  in  Maynard,  Mass. 

Still  with  General  Dynamics,  Convair  Di- 
vision, Paul  Curdo  is  now  on  loan  in  an 
industry-assist  program  to  Boeing  Co.,  Seattle, 
for  design  of  the  strut  structure  of  a  new  gener- 
ation airplane,  the  757.  He  is  a  structural  engi- 
neer. 

Alfred  Elvin  is  a  post  doctoral  fellow  at 
suny,  Buffalo,  in  the  Department  of  Pharma- 
ceutics. 

Tom  Grautski  serves  as  an  area  manager 
in  production  at  Estee  Lauder  in  Melville,  N.Y. 

Keith  Harrison  is  employed  as  assistant 
area  engineer  by  the  Federal  Highway  Admin- 
istration in  Lansing,  Michigan. 

George  Keeler  recently  completed  the  ge 
Advanced  Engineering  Course  and  Edison  Pro- 
gram. He  is  a  product  design  engineer  for  ge  in 
Pittsfield,  Mass. 

Brian  Kisiel  continues  as  a  technical  spe- 
cialist for  Betz  Laboratories  working  out  of 
Wilton,  N.H. 

Henry  LeBlanc,  still  with  the  Plastics  Di- 
vision of  Mobil  Chemical  Co.,  currently 
serves  as  project  manager  on  a  $10  million 
plant  expansion  in  Bakersfield,  Calif.,  the 
completion  date  being  in  May.  Since  April,  he 
has  been  a  crew  member  on  a  racing  yacht 


24  /  Winter  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


which  sails  out  of  Long  Beach  Yacht  Club.  He 
writes:  "The  winters  in  Southern  California 
are  much  nicer  than  those  in  upstate  New 
York  (Macedon),  although  I  do  miss  the  beauty 
of  that  first  snow  fall." 

David  Makris  is  a  senior  associate  pro- 
grammer at  ibm  in  Poughkeepsie,  NY. 

Bruce  Minsky  of  the  University  of  Massa- 
chusetts Medical  School  participated  in  the 
placement  seminar  held  in  November  at  WPI. 

Roberta  Ann  Nelson  is  in  technical  sales 
at  Schaal  Associates,  Burlington,  Mass.  At 
night  she  goes  to  Suffolk  Law  School.  She  has 
an  answering  service  for  her  own  business, 
Bertabel  Trust. 

Vanigere  Ranganath  holds  the  post  of  pro- 
gram and  systems  manager  at  Hewlett  Pack- 
ard in  Waltham,  Mass. 

Albert  Riggieri,  Jr.  serves  as  a  senior  actu- 
arial assistant  at  Paul  Revere  Life  Insurance 
Co.,  Worcester. 

Nancy  Roberts  is  employed  as  an 
actuarial  analyst  at  Sim  Life  of  Canada  in  Wel- 
lesley  Hills,  Mass. 

Ralph  Sacco  ID  continues  as  a  sales  engi- 
neer at  Westinghouse  in  Framingham,  Mass. 

Robert  Szewczyk  is  an  electro-optics  engi- 
neer in  the  Optical  Sciences  Department  at 
the  University  of  Arizona  in  Tucson. 

Dave  White  is  a  biologist  for  Ecology  & 
Environment,  Inc.,  Edison,  N.J. 


I978 


►  Married:  James  K.  Boettcher  and  Terese  A. 
LaMoria  on  July  12,  1980  in  Rutland,  Massa- 
chusetts. Mrs.  Boettcher  attended  Becker  and 
Castleton  State  College.  Her  husband  is  a 
computer  operator  at  Reed  &  Prince  Manufac- 
turing Co.,  Worcester. 

John  A.  Brighenti  and  Kristen  E.  Johnson 
on  November  1,  1980  in  Wethersfield,  Con- 
necticut. Mrs.  Brighenti  graduated  from  Hart- 
ford College  for  Women.  Recently,  she 
received  a  degree  in  criminal  justice  from  the 
University  of  New  Haven.  The  groom  works 
for  Avon  Plumbing  and  Heating. 

Robert  H.  Caless  to  Sarah  C.  Connelly  in 
Concord,  Massachusetts  on  June  7,  1980.  The 
bride  graduated  from  the  University  of  New 
Hampshire.  The  groom  holds  a  master's  de- 
gree in  metallurgy  from  RPI.  He  is  employed 
at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft,  East  Hartford, 
Conn. 

John  B.  Cozzens  and  Mary  Ann  Desaulner 
in  Webster,  Massachusetts  on  August  16, 
1980.  Mrs.  Cozzens,  a  pre-school  educator, 
graduated  from  Quinsigamond  Community 
College.  Her  husband  is  an  electrical  engineer. 
The  couple  resides  in  Glens  Falls,  N.Y. 

Stephen  LaPlante  to  Debora  Henneberry 
on  August  8,  1980  in  Attleboro,  Massachu- 
setts. The  bride  attended  Parson's  School  of 
Design  in  New  York  City.  She  is  employed  by 
Women's  World  Health  Spa,  Raynham.  The 
bridegroom  is  with  Vappi  Construction  Co.  of 
Cambridge. 


Endel  J.  Luhtjarv  and  Dawn  K.  Charlonne 
in  Winchendon,  Massachusetts  on  August  9, 
1980.  The  bride  graduated  from  the  dental  as- 
sistant program  at  Monty-Tech.  Her  husband 
serves  as  a  quality  assurance  engineer  at  Sim- 
plex Time  Recorder. 

►  Navy  Lt.j.g.  Bramwell  Arnold,  Jr.  was 
promoted  to  his  present  rank  while  serving 
with  Attack  Squadron  122,  based  at  Naval  Air 
Station,  Lemoore,  Calif. 

Daniel  Baublis,  a  field  engineer  for  Bab- 
cock  &  Wilcox,  is  presently  a  lead  start-up  en- 
gineer at  a  coal  power  plant  in  New  Mexico. 

State  Mutual,  Worcester,  recently  pro- 
moted Shane  Chalke  from  actuarial  assistant 
to  actuarial  associate.  He  is  an  associate  of  the 
Society  of  Actuaries. 

Barry  Cronin  serves  as  a  project  engineer 
at  ge  in  Syracuse,  N.Y. 

Rodney  Dill  is  a  field  engineer  at  ge 
Ordnance  Systems  in  Newport  News,  Va. 

Elizabeth  McCauley  Donahue  is  em- 
ployed as  an  occupational  program  consultant 
by  the  Aiken  County  Commission  on  Alcohol 
and  Drug  Abuse  in  Aiken,  S.C.  She  is  director 
of  a  $26,000  program  providing  employer  as- 
sistance programs  to  industries  in  a  three- 
county  area.  During  the  past  fiscal  year, 
revenues  have  doubled. 

Jeffrey  Firestone,  still  with  Rockwell,  is 
currently  on  loan  to  Boeing  in  Seattle,  Wash- 
ington. He  has  been  assigned  to  Boeing  Aero- 
space on  the  mx  missile  project. 

Formerly  with  O'Brien  &  Gere,  Bill 
Gagne  is  now  a  graduate  teaching  assistant  in 
the  department  of  civil  engineering  at  WPI. 

Paul  Gifford  is  a  construction  estimator  at 
Daniel  International,  Manchester,  Ohio. 

Karen  Hayes  serves  as  a  programmer- 
analyst  at  Gerber  Systems  Technology,  South 
Windsor,  Conn. 

Keith  Herreman  holds  the  post  of  market- 
ing representative  at  Westinghouse,  Athens, 
Ga. 

Michael  Kenniston  is  a  pho  student  in  the 
computer  science  department  at  Stanford  Uni- 
versity, Stanford,  Calif. 

Presently,  Gary  Knox  is  with  E.J.  Sys- 
tems, Inc.,  where  he  is  concerned  with  ad- 
vanced manufacturing  technology.  He  is 
located  in  North  Billerica,  Mass. 

Stephen  Kuczarski  serves  as  a  project  en- 
gineer at  Hamilton  Standard,  Windsor  Locks, 
Conn.  He,  his  wife,  Carole,  and  baby,  Laura, 
reside  in  West  Springfield,  Mass. 

Scott  Lentz  holds  the  post  of  control  sys- 
tems engineer  at  Aramco  in  Houston,  Texas. 
He  will  be  moving  to  Saudi  Arabia. 

Charles  Marden  is  a  lieutenant  j.g.  in  the 
Navy.  Home  port  is  Pearl  Harbor. 

Laura  Mattick  is  tranferring  with  Procter 
&  Gamble  from  the  Mehoopany  Paper  Prod- 
ucts plant  to  the  St.  Bernard  Soap  plant  in  Cin- 
cinnati. At  Mehoopany,  Laura  had 
assignments  as  a  production  supervisor,  indus- 
trial engineer,  and  area  safety  manager  in  the 
tissue  module  which  manufactures  Charmin 
and  White  Cloud.  Her  new  assignment  will  be 
as  a  synthetic  granular  detergent  packing  su- 
pervisor. 


Thomas  Medrek  is  an  electrical  engineer 
at  ADECorp.,  Newton,  Mass. 

Alok  Misra  works  as  a  system  software 
engineer  at  Computer  Controls  Corp.  in 
Wilmington,  Mass. 

Currently,  Jill  Neal  is  attending  Carnegie- 
Mellon  Graduate  School  of  Industrial  Manage- 
ment. In  June,  she  completed  GE's  two-year 
Management  Training  Program. 

Currently,  Charles  Pallett  is  working  in 
Venezuela  for  the  project  management  depart- 
ment of  Exxon  Research  &  Engineering  Co. 

Larry  Parretti  serves  as  an  assistant  pro- 
ject engineer  at  Perini  Corp.,  Rockville,  Md. 
He  and  Vicki  live  in  Silver  Spring. 

Philip  Scarrell  works  as  a  first  line  produc- 
tion supervisor  at  du  Pont  in  Front  Royal  Va. 

Andrew  Tabak  serves  as  a  Redeye  section 
leader  for  the  U.S.  Army  in  Ft.  Riley,  Kansas. 
He  uses  the  Redeye  heat-seeking  man  portable 
missiles  to  provide  air  defense  coverage  for  a 
54-tank  battalion. 

David  Tate  is  employed  as  a  senior  soft- 
ware engineer  at  Sanders  Associates  in 
Nashua,  N.H. 

Presently,  Russell  Thomas  is  employed  as 
a  production  engineer  for  the  computer  divi- 
sion of  Hewlett-Packard,  Cupertino,  Calif.  He 
is  concerned  with  the  HP  1000  AP  automation 
processor.  Russell  received  his  degree  in  man- 
agement after  just  three  years  at  WPI.  After 
graduation  he  worked  for  a  small  plastics  com- 
pany for  six  months.  He  then  re-enrolled  at 
WPI,  this  time  taking  courses  in  the  electrical 
engineering  program,  finishing  in  1980.  He 
now  has  the  equivalent  of  a  double  major,  and 
he  is  enjoying  his  new  post  and  life  in  the  Cali- 
fornia area. 

Bettina  Tuttle  recently  completed  a  spe- 
cial development  program  for  promising 
young  engineers  with  ce.  Called  the 
Chemical-Metallurgical  Technical  (Chem- 
Met)  Program,  it  is  a  two-year  program  in 
manufacturing  management  sponsored  by  the 
Engineered  Materials  Group,  a  group  of  five 
chemical  and  metallurgical  businesses.  Upon 
joining  ge,  Tina  went  into  the  Chem-Met  Pro- 
gram which  rotates  participants  through  four 
six-month  assignments  at  two  different  loca- 
tions, exposing  them  to  the  technical  and  ad- 
ministrative aspects  of  manufacturing 
positions.  Program  members  are  outstanding 
chemical,  mechanical,  or  metallurgical  engi- 
neering graduates.  Tina  began  as  a  process  en- 
gineer and  was  later  a  facilities  engineer  with 
the  Laminated  and  Insulated  Materials  De- 
partment in  Coshocton,  Ohio.  Her  third  as- 
signment was  as  a  process  engineer  in  the 
Plastics  Operations  in  Pittsfield,  Mass.  Pres- 
ently, she  is  supervising  the  start-up  of  an  ex- 
change process  for  a  new  plastic  venture. 

John  Vestri,  Jr.  is  a  production  control 
planner  at  Parker  Hannifin  Corp.,  East 
Brunswick,  N.J. 

Michael  Walker  is  employed  as  assistant 
superintendent  at  Morse/Diesel,  Inc.,  Boston. 

Wes  Wheeler  continues  with  Exxon  Re- 
search &  Engineering  in  London  for  a  two-year 
loan  assignment.  He  is  working  in  the  project 
management  department  of  Esso  Engineering 
(Europe I  Ltd. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Winter  1981  /  25 


1979 


►  Married:  Tim  F.  Bamford  and  Florinda  M. 
Costa  in  Portsmouth,  Rhode  Island  on  August 
23,  1980.  Mrs.  Bamford,  who  attended  South- 
eastern Massachusetts  University,  is  studying 
at  Lowell  University.  The  bridegroom  is  em- 
ployed at  Genrad  Inc.,  Concord. 

Charles  R.  Close  to  Karen  A.  Thibault  in 
Somerset,  Massachusetts.  The  bride  graduated 
from  Becker,  and  formerly  worked  at  Ray- 
theon in  Portsmouth,  R.I.  The  groom  is  with 
Alcoa  Aluminum  Co.,  Little  Rock,  Ark. 

M.  Beth  Driscoll  and  Samuel  M.  Kinney 
IH  on  October  4,  1980  in  Georgetown,  Con- 
necticut. The  bride  now  works  at  at&t  Long 
Lines  in  White  Plains,  N.Y.  Her  husband,  an 
insurance  broker,  has  a  ba  in  English  from  the 
College  of  Wooster  (Ohio)  and  is  employed  by 
Frank  B.  Hall  &  Co.  in  New  York  City. 

Louis  Frascotti  to  Rachela  Tironi  in  Wa- 
terford,  New  York  on  October  11,  1980.  Mrs. 
Frascotti,  who  is  employed  by  Brooks  Junior 
Fashions,  Inc.,  graduated  horn  Becker.  The 
groom  serves  as  a  fire  protection  engineer  with 
Kemper  Insurance  Co.,  North  Quincy,  Mass. 

Thomas  B.  Girotti  to  Debra  K.  Solomon 
in  South  Boston,  Massachusetts  on  August  23, 
1980.  Mrs.  Girotti  graduated  from  Smith- 
Deal-Massey  Business  College  in  Richmond, 
Va.  The  bridegroom  is  employed  by  the  Vir- 
ginia Electric  and  Power  Co.  in  Norfolk. 

Donald  A.  Larson  and  Miss  Deborah  A. 
Close  in  Rowayton,  Connecticut  on  October 
11,  1980.  Mrs.  Larson  graduated  from  Becker. 
Her  husband  is  employed  as  a  sales  representa- 
tive by  Data  General. 

Stephen  J.  Lefemine  and  Francyne  D. 
Fiorillo  in  Shrewsbury,  Massachusetts  on  May 
1 1 ,  1980.  The  bride  graduated  from  Clark  and 
is  a  probation  officer  at  Worcester  Juvenile 
Court.  The  bridegroom  is  a  sales-application 
engineer  at  Warren  Pumps,  Inc.,  Warren, 
Mass. 

Mary  Ellen  Mazeika  to  William  J.  Blunt 
in  Worcester  on  August  16,  1980.  The  bride 
serves  as  a  regional  planner  with  the  Central 
Massachusetts  Regional  Planning  Commis- 
sion. The  groom  graduated  from  Holy  Name 
Central  Catholic  High  School.  He  is  a  machin- 
ist for  Norton  Co. 

Daniel  P.  Pan  ice  ia  to  Dawn  C.  Smith  on 
September  6,  1980.  Mrs.  Paniccia  graduated 
from  Berkley  Secretarial  School.  She  is  with 
M.G.  Wheeler  Co.,  Greenwich.  Her  husband, 
after  attending  WPI,  went  to  Columbia  Uni- 
versity. 

David  E.  Szkutak  and  Joan  M.  Bolduc  on 
August  30,  1980  in  Waterville,  Maine.  The 
bride  is  an  electrical  engineer  for  Procter  & 
Gamble  in  Cincinnatti,  Ohio,  where  her  hus- 
band serves  as  a  chemical  engineer. 

Paul  N.  Zeytoonian  to  Jane  F.  Con- 
naughton  in  Waltham,  Massachusetts  on  Sep- 
tember 21,  1980.  Mrs.  Zeytoonian,  a  nurse  in 
the  critical  care  section  of  Waltham  Hospital, 
graduated  horn  St.  Elizabeth's  Hospital  School 
of  Nursing  in  Brighton .  Presently,  her  husband 


is  attending  the  Graduate  School  of  Engineer- 
ing, Northeastern  University.  He  is  employed 
as  a  mechanical  engineer  with  the  Polaroid 
Corp. 

►  Ronald  Bauman,  who  has  an  ms  in 
management  from  WPI,  works  as  a  sales  repre- 
sentative at  Digital  in  Melville,  N.Y. 

Paul  Bellagamba  continues  with  Donald 
O.  Anderson,  a  general  contractor  in  Middle- 
town,  R.I. 

Continuing  with  ge,  Stephen  Caputo  is 
now  a  district  sales  manager  in  Minneapolis. 

Clint  Carpenter  is  a  research  assistant  in 
the  department  of  chemistry  at  the  University 
of  Wisconsin  in  Madison. 

Timothy  Casey  is  with  Interstate  Elec- 
tronics Corp.,  Anaheim,  Calif.  He  writes  that 
Liz  is  enrolled  in  a  phD  program  in  hydrody- 
namics. 

Garrett  Chace  holds  the  position  of  man- 
ager at  Killingly  Building  Products,  Dayville, 
Conn. 

Ray  Chase  works  as  a  management 
trainee  at  O.Z.  Gedney,  Terryville,  Conn. 

Chris  Corpuz  is  in  the  mcrp  program  at 
Harvard. 

George  Dainis  has  completed  his  ms  in 
chemical  engineering  work  at  mit  and  he  now 
works  as  a  process  engineer  in  the  plating  de- 
partment at  Texas  Instruments,  Inc.,  Attle- 
boro,  Mass. 

Douglas  DeSimone  is  now  in  the  depart- 
ment of  biological  sciences  at  Dartmouth  Col- 
lege, Hanover,  N.H. 

Raymond  DiMuzio  was  recently  pro- 
moted to  polyvinyl  emulsion  supervisor  at  the 
Plainfield,  N.J.  plant  of  National  Starch  and 
Chemical  Corporation.  He  joined  the  com- 
pany in  1979  as  a  production  engineer.  He  be- 
longs to  the  American  Institute  of  Chemical 
Engineers. 

John  Donahue  works  as  a  substation  engi- 
neer at  Niagara  Mohawk  in  Syracuse,  N.Y. 

Louis  Feula  works  as  a  technology  engi- 
neer for  the  Monsanto  Co.  in  Indian  Orchard, 
Mass. 

David  Freni  is  a  civil  engineer  with  the 
Federal  Aviation  Administration,  headquar- 
tered in  Kansas  City,  Missouri.  He  says  he  has 
a  "constant  travel"  status. 

Michael  Gallerani  continues  as  a  manu- 
facturing engineer  at  ge  in  Providence,  R.I. 

Mark  Galvin  is  a  project  engineer  at  Bur- 
ton Tool  &  Die  Co.,  Leominster,  Mass. 

John  Grimwade  holds  the  post  of  field  en- 
gineer at  Babcock  &  Wilcox  in  Chicago. 

Suzanne  Hess,  who  is  employed  by  Ex- 
xon, was  a  panelist  at  the  placement  seminar 
held  at  WPI  in  November. 

Kenneth  Howard  works  for  Innamorati 
Bro.,  Clinton,  Mass. 

David  Johnson,  formerly  with  Film  Cool- 
ing Towers  Ltd.,  England,  is  presently  with 
Johnson  Associates,  Inc.  in  Bridgewater, 
Conn. 

Lawrence  Kurt  is  employed  as  an  ac- 
countant at  Robertshaw  Controls,  Milford, 
Conn. 

Brien  Laufer  is  now  affiliated  with  the 
Shell  Oil  Co.,  Houston,  Texas. 


Stephen  Lawry  is  a  high  energy  laser 
physicist  at  the  usaf/af  Weapons  Lab., 
Kir t land  afb,  Albuquerque,  N.M. 

James  Mastalerz  continues  as  a 
programmer-analyst  at  Coppus  Engineering  in 
Worcester. 

Thomas  McClure  works  as  a  lubricants 
and  finish  chemist  at  ge  Medium  Steam  in 
Lynn,  Mass. 

Robert  Parent  serves  as  a  software  engi- 
neer at  Tektronix  in  Oregon. 

Stephen  Rehn  works  as  an  electrical  engi- 
neer at  Panametrics  in  Waltham,  Mass. 

Philip  Rubin  is  a  process  engineer  at  du 
Pont/Berg  Electronics,  New  Cumberland,  Pa. 
He  has  received  his  ms  in  materials  from  WPI. 

Leonard  Taylor  is  with  Xanics  &  Co.,  Van 
Nuys,  Calif. 

Neil  Volkmar  works  as  manager  of  opera- 
tions engineering  at  ge-doe  Neutron  Devices 
in  St.  Petersburg,  Fla. 

Currently,  John  Wheeler  serves  as  assis- 
tant to  the  president  at  Citrus  County  Land 
Bureau,  Far  Hills,  N.J. 


1980 


►  Married:  Eugene  W.  Balinski,  Jr.  and  Diane 
E.  Martin  in  Worcester  on  June  14,  1980.  Mrs. 
Balinski  graduated  horn  Salter  Secretarial 
School  and  is  a  secretary  for  the  Nashua,  N.H. 
Fire  Department.  The  groom  is  employed  at 

Sanders  Associates,  Nashua Gregg 

Belevick  and  Sarah  Brunell  in  October.  The 

couple  is  living  in  Worcester Richard 

L.  Coleman  and  Kathryn  L.  Grider  on  May  24, 
1980  in  Cumberland,  Rhode  Island.  The  bride 
is  an  associate  engineer  at  GE  in  Pleasanton, 
Calif.  Her  husband  serves  as  a  computer  scien- 
tist at  Lawrence  Livermore  National  Labora- 
tory in  Livermore. 

Todd  W.  Cullen  and  Miss  Kim  M.  Ri- 
chardson in  Marlboro,  Massachusetts  on  June 
21,  1980.  Mrs.  Cullen  attended  Westfield  State 
College.  She  is  a  room  reservationist  at  Shera- 
ton Lincoln  Inn.  Her  husband  serves  as  assis- 
tant manager  of  Thorn  McAn,  Worcester 

Center Robert  B.  Cummings  and  2/ 

Lt.  Candyce  L.  Hallock,  U.S.  Air  Force,  in 
Worcester  on  October  18,  1980.  The  bride, 
who  is  stationed  at  Hanscom  afb,  is  a  projects 
officer  co-located  at  Mitre  Corp.,  Burlington, 
Mass.  The  bridegroom  serves  as  a  project  engi- 
neer at  J.F.  White  Contracting  Co.  of  Boston. 
....  Timothy  S.  Dean  to  Nancy  E. 
Hodgdon  on  July  28,  1980  in  Portland,  Maine. 
The  bride  is  an  alumna  of  the  University  of 
Southern  Maine.  Her  husband  is  a  plant  design 
engineer  at  Bechtel  Power  Corp.,  Gaithers- 
burg,  Md. 


26  /  Winter  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


Perry  Esposito  and  Cynthia  Stanley  in 
New  Preston,  Connecticut  on  October  4, 
1980.  Mrs.  Esposito  graduated  from  Southern 
Connecticut  State  College  in  New  Haven  with 
a  bs  in  elementary  education.  She  taught  at  the 
Family  Resource  Center  in  New  Milford.  The 
bridegroom  has  accepted  a  post  at  Bailey  Con- 
trols in  Denver,  Colorado Jill  E.  Fa- 

bricant  and  Glenn  A.  Corwin,  '81,  on  June  15, 
1980.  The  bride  has  been  named  programmer- 
analyst  at  Digital  in  Maynard,  Mass.  She  is 
also  taking  evening  graduate  courses  at  WPI. 
Her  husband  is  a  computer  science  student  at 

WPI Paul  A.  Ferrara  and  Diane  M. 

Santaniello,  79,  on  October  12,  1980  in  John- 
ston, Rhode  Island.  Mrs.  Ferrara  is  with  State 
Mutual  Life  Assurance  Company.  Her  hus- 
band works  for  the  Small  Business  Service  Bu- 
reau in  Worcester. 

Gary  E.  Graf  to  Cheryl  A.  Sarofeen  in 
North  Brookfield,  Massachusetts  on  lune  14, 
1980.  The  bride  graduated  from  North  Brook- 
field  High  School.  The  bridegroom  is  an  elec- 
trical engineer  at  Sanders  Associates,  Nashua, 
N.H Stephen  J.  LaFlamme  and  Bar- 
bara A.  Morin  in  New  Hampshire  on  July  25, 
1980.  The  bride,  an  employee  of  New 
Hampshire  Insurance  Co.,  graduated  from 
Manchester  Central  High  School.  The  bride- 
groom was  temporarily  employed  by  the  Vet- 
eran's Administration  Hospital  Engineering 
Department.  He  is  now  working  for  his  mas- 
ter's degree  in  nuclear  engineering  at  Ohio 

State  University Allen  L.  Legendre, 

Jr.  and  Diane  M.  Ritchie  on  June  20,  1980  in 
West  Boylston,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Legendre 
graduated  from  St.  Peter-Marian  Central  Cath- 
olic High  School,  Worcester.  She  was  manager 
of  the  Gold  Star  Boulevard  Branch  of  Home 
Federal  Savings  &  Loan  Association.  Her  hus- 
band has  his  master's  degree  in  management 
horn  WPI.  He  has  joined  Florida  Power  Corp., 
St.  Petersburg,  Fla. 

Arthur  B.  O'Leary  ID  and  Eileen  R.  Ford 
on  October  11,  1980  in  Cornwall  Bridge,  Con- 
necticut. Mrs.  O'Leary  graduated  from  Bay 
Path  Junior  College  with  an  AS  degree  in  busi- 
ness administration.  She  is  a  money  market 
investment  technician  for  Aetna  Insurance 
Co.,  Hartford.  The  bridegroom  is  with  Artisan 

Industries,  Inc.,  Waltham,  Mass 

Thomas  C.  Stange  to  Cynthia  M.  Noel  in 
Athol,  Massachusetts  on  September  1,  1980. 
Mrs.  Stange  graduated  from  Hahnemann  Hos- 
pital School  of  Nursing,  Worcester.  She  is  a 
registered  nurse  at  Memorial  Hospital. 

>-Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Mark  Lewis  a 
son,  Stephen  John,  on  August  1,  1980.  Lewis  is 
employed  by  Caltrans  and  is  located  in  Eu- 
reka, Calif.  He  writes:  "My  dog,  Bart,  is  also 
in  California.  He  grew  up  on  the  WPI 
campus." 

►  Michael  Aghajanian  has  been  named  as 
a  systems  specialist  at  ge,  Fitchburg,  Mass. 
....   Dennis  Allard  works  as  a  structural 
engineer  at  Technical  Aid  Corp.  in  Waltham, 
Mass Mark  Andrews  is  an  applica- 
tions chemist  at  Waters  Associates  in  Milford, 
Mass Craig  Autio  is  associate  engi- 
neer at  Avco-Systems  Division,  Wilmington, 

Mass Amos  Barnes  IV  is  studying  for 

his  msce  under  an  nsf  grant  at  WPI. 


Joseph  Barone  works  as  a  rotating  engi- 
neer at  ge  Ordnance  Systems  in  Pittsfield, 

Mass Hildegard  Benneck  is  now  a 

member  of  the  technical  staff  at  Bell  Tele- 
phone Labs,  Holmdel,  N.J Robert 

Berlo  holds  the  post  of  sales  engineer  at  Hinds 

&  Coon  Co.,  South  Boston,  Mass 

Mark  Beschle  has  joined  gte  Sylvania. 
....   Brian  Biernacki  is  employed  as  a 
junior  field  engineer  in  the  training  depart- 
ment at  Dresser  Atlas  in  Houston,  Texas. 

David  Bowers  has  been  employed  by  the 
corporate  safety  department  at  Air  Products 

and  Chemcials,  Allentown,  Pa Todd 

Brennan  is  with  Ciba-Geigy  Corp.  in  Cran- 
ston, R.I Keith  Brown  is  an  environ- 
mental engineer  at  Cullinan  Engineering, 

Auburn,  Mass Salvatore  Bruno  has 

joined  Union  Carbide  as  a  plant  electrical  engi- 
neer in  Red  Oak,  Iowa Jeffrey  Carter 

works  as  a  manufacturing  program  engineer  at 
Xerox  Corporation,  Webster,  N.Y. 

Mike  Chew  works  for  Bendix  Corp., 
Kansas  City,  Missouri Donald  Con- 
nor is  a  graduate  student  in  biobehavioral  stu- 
dies at  UConn Stephen  Courville  is 

with  gte  Sylvania,  Needham,  Mass 

Dave  Craigue  and  William  Emmet  won  sec- 
ond prize  in  The  Lincoln  Arc  Welding 
Foundation  competition  for  the  hydraulic 
tomato-planting  machine  which  they 
designed  and  built  as  a  WPI  project.  Emmet  is 
now  at  Cornell  University  in  a  two-year  ms 

program  in  agricultural  engineering 

Charles  Crowley  has  been  named  a  staff  engi- 
neer at  Poly  Cast  Technology  Corporation, 
Stamford,  Conn. 

Judith  D'Agostino  serves  as  a  process  en- 
gineer at  Monsanto  Plastics  &  Resins  in 

Springfield,  Mass Duane  Delfosse  is 

now  program  engineer  for  ge  in  San  Jose,  Ca- 
lif  Joseph  DeMauro  serves  as  district 

manager  of  performance  control  at  New  Eng- 
land Telephone  in  Boston.  He  and  his  wife, 

Theresa,  reside  in  Framingham 

Jeffrey  Deutsch  is  a  graduate  student  in  the 
electronics  research  laboratory  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  California,  Berkeley.    ....   Richard 
DiMascio  works  for  gte  Sylvania  in  Needham, 

Mass Paul  Diotalevi  has  been  hired 

as  a  management  trainee  at  New  England  Tel- 
ephone in  Framingham,  Mass Paul 

Doherty  is  now  a  process  engineer  at  Pfizer, 
Inc.,  Chemicals  Division,  Groton,  Conn. 
....  Robert  Dreyfoos  serves  as  a  design  en- 
gineer at  Photo  Electronics  Corp.,  West  Palm 

Beach,  Fla Margaret  Dumont  has 

joined  Digital  Equipment  Corp.  in  Nashua, 

N.H Hebert  Dunnington  III  is  a  field 

engineer  at  Schumberger  in  New  Orleans,  La. 

Thomas  Egan  works  for  Beringer  Co., 

Marblehead,  Mass Tom  Fawcett  has 

become  a  member  of  the  technical  staff  at  Mi- 
tre Corp.,  Bedford,  Mass Peter  Folta 

is  an  assistant  rate  engineer  at  New  England 

Gas  &  Electric,  Cambridge,  Mass 

Richard  Forand  serves  as  an  assistant  engineer 
at  Industrial  Risk  Insurers  in  Charlotte,  N.C. 
....   Carl  Gates,  Jr.  works  as  a  sales  repre- 
sentative at  du  Pont  in  Clifton,  N.J. 


Thomas  Gellrich  works  for  Exxon  Chem- 
ical Co.,  Florham  Park,  N.J Jack  Gre- 
gory has  joined  Digital  in  Maynard,  Mass. 
....   Djelloul  Haouari  is  with  Sonelec  in 

Algeria Data  General,  Southboro, 

Mass.,  has  named  Scott  Harvey  as  a  manufac- 
turing engineer Jeffrey  Hebert  has 

been  named  shift  technical  adviser  at  Yankee 

Atomic  Electric,  Rowe,  Mass 

Claudia  Huehmer  is  with  Boston  Edison  Co. 
in  the  Prudential  Center,  Boston.  While  at 
WPI,  she  co-designed  a  removal  tool  for  a  sur- 
veillance capsule  in  an  atomic  core 

Steve  Kahn  continues  at  Bettis  Labs  in  West 
Mifflin,  Pa. 

Kevin  Keena  is  now  a  mechanical  engi- 
neer at  Digital  in  Marlboro,  Mass 

Peter  Kelleher  serves  as  an  associate 
engineer-nuclear  power  engineering  trainee  at 
the  Westinghouse  Electric  Naval  Reactors  Fa- 
cility in  Idaho  Falls,  Idaho Robert 

Kennedy  is  a  sales  engineer  for  Westinghouse 

Power  Systems,  Framingham,  Mass 

Christopher  Kintz  has  joined  General 
Dynamics-Electric  Boat  in  Groton,  Conn. 
....   David  Konieczny  has  joined  Bechtel 
Power  Corp.,  Gaithersburg,  Md. 

Anne-Marie  Kruglewicz  is  employed  at  du 
Pont's  Marshall  Laboratory  in  Philadelphia. 
....  John  Letourneau  serves  as  a  member 
of  the  technical  staff  at  Bell  Labs.,  Piscataway, 

N.J Gareth  Kucinkas  is  now  a  field 

engineer  at  Schlumberger  Well  Services  in 

New  Iberia,  La Kevin  Loftus  has  been 

named  a  process  engineer  at  Chemapec,  Inc., 

Woodbury,  N.Y Michael  J.  Lombardi 

holds  the  post  of  contract  engineer  at  Bechtel 
Power  Corp.,  San  Francisco,  Calif. 

Michael  R.  Lombardi  has  been  employed 
as  a  support  engineer  at  Stone  &  Webster,  Bos- 
ton  Raymond  Lucchetti,  Jr.  is  now  a 

systems  support  engineer  at  Bunker  Ramo 

Corp.,  Trumbull,  Conn Thomas  Lu- 

cey  works  as  a  production  engineer  for  Sys- 
tems Intergration  Engineering  at  Data  General 

in  Southboro,  Mass Stone  & 

Webster,  Cherry  Hill,  N.J.,  employs  Raymond 
Lum  as  a  career  development  engineer. 
....   Deborah  Luper  has  joined  Western 
Electric,  Allentown,  Pa. 

Kevin  Lynch  is  a  member  of  the  Rocket- 
dyne  Division  of  Rockwell  International  in 

Canoga  Park,  Calif Brian  Mahoney  is 

on  the  technical  staff  at  Mitre  Corp.,  Bedford, 
Mass Carlos  Maltos  is  a  customer  as- 
sistant contact  in  the  treasury  department  at 

Citibank  in  Mexico  City Paul  Man- 

deville  serves  as  a  project  engineer  at  Naval 

Ordnance,  Indian  Head,  Md Kenneth 

Mandile  is  a  design  engineer  at  GTE  Sylvania, 
Strategic  Systems  Division,  Lithium  Battery 

Group,  Waltham,  Mass William 

Mangano,  Jr.  has  been  employed  as  a  survey 
statistician  by  the  U.S.  Census  Bureau,  Dept. 

of  Commerce,  in  Suitland,  Md John 

Manning,  Jr.  is  working  for  his  ms  in  environ- 
mental health  engineering  at  Notre  Dame, 
where  he  is  with  the  department  of  civil  engi- 
neering. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Winter  1981  /  27 


Mario  Marcaccio  is  an  environmental  en- 
gineer at  Camp  Dresser  &  McKee,  Boston. 
....  Ralph  Man-one  has  joined 
Hewlett-Packard,  Lexington,  Mass.  as  a  sys- 
tems engineer Pratt  &  Whitney  Air- 
craft Group,  East  Hartford,  Conn.,  has  named 
Ronald  Marshall  as  a  program  analyst. 
....  Gilbert  Martin,  Jr.  has  accepted  a  post 
as  nuclear  plant  engineer  trainee  with 
Westinghouse-Bettis  Atomic  Power  Labora- 
tory in  Idaho  Falls,  Idaho Robert 

Martinek  is  employed  as  a  design  engineer  at 

Raytheon  in  Sudbury,  Mass Anthony 

Masullo  was  named  a  process  engineer  at  Pfi- 
zer, Inc.,  Groton,  Conn. 

Joseph  Mayall  is  a  field  service  engineer  at 

Babcock  &  Wilcox John  Mazeika  is  a 

service  engineer,  level  I,  at  Combustion  Engi- 
neering in  Windsor,  Conn Thomas 

McBride  has  joined  Dresser  Industries,  Atlas 
Division,  in  Alice,  Texas 2/Lt.  H.  Pe- 
ter McClain,  who  attended  the  U.S.  Army 
Ordnance  School  at  Aberdeen  Proving 
Grounds  in  Maryland,  was  recently  assigned 
to  the  Army  Missile  &  Munitions  Center,  Re- 
dstone Arsenal,  Alabama Darlene 

McCormick  is  with  the  Westinghouse  Oce- 
anic Division  in  Annapolis,  Md 

Cathleen  McDermott  is  now  an  engineering 
assistant  for  the  County  of  Los  Angeles  Road 
Department,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

Linda  Mclnnis  works  as  a  technical  writer 
at  Ampex  Corporation,  Redwood  City,  Calif. 
....  Maryellen  McLaughlin  accepted  a  po- 
sition as  electronics  engineer  at  Charles  Stark 
Draper  Laboratory  in  Cambridge,  Mass. 
....  Joan  McNamara  was  named  as  a 
process  development  engineer  at  Monsanto  in 

Indian  Orchard,  Mass John  McNeff  II 

has  been  hired  by  Procter  &  Gamble,  Quincy, 

Mass.,  as  a  production  engineer 

Brian  McQuillan  serves  as  a  human  factors- 
system  safety  engineer  at  gte  Sylvania  in 

Needham  Heights,  Mass Scott 

Mease  is  now  a  field  systems  engineer  for  Da- 
niels Construction  Co Paula  Mesite 

is  with  Ensco,  Inc.,  Springfield,  Va.  At  night, 
she  attends  the  master's  program  in  electrical 
engineering  at  George  Washington  University. 

Fred  Mirabelle,  Jr.  is  employed  as  a  design 
engineer  at  Harris  Corp.,  Westerly,  R.I. 
....  Michael  Mitchell  works  as  a  manufac- 
turing engineer  at  Texas  Instruments  in 

Attleboro,  Mass Serge  Molinari  is  a 

field  service  engineer  at  du  Pont  in  LaPlace, 

La Presently,  Patricia  Monterio 

serves  as  an  assistant  process  engineer  at  Fluor 
Engineers  &  Constructors,  Irvine,  Calif. 
....  Rosemary  Murphy  holds  the  post  of 
process  development  engineer  for  Critical 
Fluid  Systems,  Inc.  (A.D.  Little  Labs)  in  Cam- 
bridge, Mass. 

William  Murtha  was  named  as  a  manu- 
facturing management  trainee  at  ge 

John  Neilon  attends  grad  school  at  the 

University  of  Miami John  Noonan 

works  as  a  civil  engineering  assistant  for  LA 
County  Flood  Control,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 
....   Paul  Normand  has  been  employed  by 
the  Hamilton  Standard  Division  of  United 
Technologies,  Windsor  Locks,  Conn 


Colleen  O'Connor  is  an  information  systems 
designer  at  Western  Electric  in  North  Andover, 

Mass Thaddeus  J.  Okolo,  Jr.  has  been 

named  a  design  engineer  at  Sikorsky  Aircraft 
in  Stratford,  Conn. 

David  Olds  has  accepted  the  post  of  de- 
sign engineer  at  the  ge  Direct  Energy  Conver- 
sion Center  in  Wilmington,  Mass 

Mark  O'Neil  works  as  an  assembly  planner  at 

Intel  in  Santa  Clara,  Calif Elaine 

O'Neill  is  now  with  Clairol  in  Stamford, 

Conn Robert  Oriol  is  employed  by 

the  Small  Business  Service  Bureau  in  Worces- 
ter  Ronald  Ouellet  is  with  Texas  In- 
struments in  Dallas. 

David  Paciorkowski  serves  as  a 
communications-electronics  engineer  for  the 

u.s.a.f.  at  Keesler  afb,  Miss Louis  Pa- 

lecki  was  named  as  associate  advance  engineer 
at  Honeywell's  Electro-Optics  Center  in  Lex- 
ington, Mass.  He  is  a  member  of  the  Worcester 
Art  Museum Michael  Parulis  is  em- 
ployed as  an  associate  engineer  at  General 
Dynamics-Electric  Boat,  Groton,  Conn. 

Robert  Pearson  is  now  a  process  engineer 

at  Pfizer,  Inc.  in  Groton,  Conn Bjorn 

Pedersen  holds  the  post  of  manager  of  experi- 
mental engineering  at  Varian/Extrion  in 
Gloucester,  Mass.  He  has  an  ms  in  manage- 
ment horn  WPI William  Perkins  is 

with  arradcom  in  Dover,  N.J 

Honeywell  Electro  Optics  Center,  Lexington, 
Mass.,  has  employed  John  Pierre  as  an  associ- 
ate development  engineer Paul  Pietal 

works  as  a  statistician  for  the  Bureau  of  the 
Census  in  Suitland,  Md. 

Currently,  John  Pobuk  serves  as  a  Peace 
Corps  volunteer  in  Micronesia,  where  he  is  a 

water  systems  adviser John 

Podlenski  has  joined  kvb  in  New  York  City. 
....  Thomas  Polito  works  as  a  graduate  re- 
search assistant  at  WPI's  Alden  Labs. 

Richard  Preliasco  is  employed  as  an  asso- 
ciate engineer  at  Lockheed  Missiles  &  Space 

Co.,  Sunnyvale,  Calif Mary  Puzemis 

holds  the  post  of  chemist  at  Environmental 

Waste  Removal,  Waterbury,  Conn 

David  Quaranta  is  with  the  ME  department  at 

WPI James  Racca  is  now  an  associate 

engineer  at  B.F.  Goodrich  Chemical  Division 
in  Independence,  Ohio. 

Sanders  Associates,  Nashua,  N.H.  has 
named  Michael  Ramadei  as  a  design  engineer 

I Clifford  Read  works  as  a  product 

support  engineer  at  Foxboro  Company. 
....  Cathy  Reed  holds  the  position  of  pro- 
ject engineer  at  Badger  America  in  Cambridge, 

Mass Craig  Reed  is  with  du  Pont  at 

the  Savannah  River  plant  in  Aiken,  S.C. 
....  David  Reeves  has  accepted  the  post  of 
product  development  engineer  at  American 
Hoechst  Corporation  in  Leominster,  Mass. 


....  Cathryn  Ricci  serves  as  a  process  engi- 
neer at  Berg  Electronics,  a  division  of  du  Pont 
in  New  Cumberland,  Pa. 

Charles  Richards  rv  has  joined  Harris 

Corporation,  Rochester,  N.Y Ronald 

Richter  is  with  Analytical  Systems  Engineer- 
ing Corporation Mark  Riley  is  a 

teaching  assistant  at  Thayer  School  of  Engi- 
neering, Dartmouth  College Steven 

Robbins  has  been  named  as  a  system  analyst 
at  Sanders  Associates,  Inc.,  Nashua,  N.H. 
....   Norman  Robinson,  Jr.  was  employed 
as  associate  advanced  manufacturing  engineer 
at  Xerox  Corp.,  Henrietta,  N.Y. 

John  Roche  works  for  Micro  Networks, 
Worcester,  in  the  manufacturing  engineering 

department Jeffrey  Rosen  has  joined 

Stone  &  Webster  in  St.  Francesville,  La. 
....   Richard  Rotelli,  Jr.  holds  the  post  of 
structural  engineer  at  Jordan,  Apostal,  Ritter 

Associates,  Inc.,  in  Davisville,  R.I 

Elizabeth  Roth  is  a  student  at  Hahnemann 
Medical  College,  Philadelphia. 

Charles  Rothauser  who  holds  an  mscs 
horn  WPI,  works  as  a  project  analyst  at  United 
Technologies  Research  Center,  East  Hartford, 
Conn.  He  is  a  member  of  the  Association  of 

Computing  Machinery Martin  Rowe 

has  joined  Analog  Devices,  Inc.,  Norwood, 

Mass Lee  Sacks  is  with  ComputerVi- 

sion  in  Bedford,  Mass Thomas  Sar- 

della  accepted  a  post  as  electronics  engineer 
with  nasa  at  Goddard  Space  Flight  Center, 
Greenbelt,  Md. 

Doreen  Sa  Vieira  is  working  in  applied  re- 
search at  Western  Electric  Co.,  North  An- 
dover, Mass Gary  Sawicki  serves  as  a 

manufacturing  engineer  at  Texas  Instruments, 

Attleboro,  Mass Kenneth  Sawyer  has 

joined  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft,  East  Hart- 
ford, Conn.,  where  he  is  employed  as  an  ana- 
lytical engineer Angelo  Scangas  is  a 

process  engineer  with  National  Starch  and 
Chemical  Corp.,  Plainfield,  N.J. 

David  Schab  works  for  Hughes  Aircraft  in 

Greenfield,  Mass Peter  Schoonmaker 

is  a  junior  engineer  at  Northern  Research  & 

Engineering  Corp.,  Woburn,  Mass 

During  the  summer,  Sharon  Schulze  worked 
for  the  Upper  Blackstone  Water  Pollution 
Abatement  District  in  Millbury,  Mass.  She  is  a 
teaching  assistant  at  WPI Craig  Sher- 
man is  employed  at  Thermo  Electron  Corp., 
Waltham,  Mass.  He  has  an  ms  from  WPI. 

Michael  Slattery  is  a  technical  staff  mem- 
ber in  the  Hughes  Aircraft  Ground  Systems 

Group,  Fullerton,  Calif Charles 

Smith  is  concerned  with  installation  engineer- 
ing at  Western  Electric  in  North  Andover, 

Mass Chartsiri  Sophonpanich  is  a 

graduate  student  in  chemical  engineering  at 

mit Richard  Stephens  has  accepted  a 

post  as  a  sales  engineer  at  Dana  Industrial.  The 
firm  is  located  in  Warren,  Mich. 

James  Stonier  works  for  Honeywell  Infor- 
mation Systems  of  Billerica,  Mass 

Charles  Sullivan  BI  attends  the  University  of 
Rhode  Island,  where  he  is  studying  for  his  mba 

in  finance James  Sweeney  HI  is  an 

Edison  engineer  at  ge  in  Schenectady,  N.Y. 


28  /  Winter  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


....  Keith  Sylvestre  is  with  Northeast  Util- 
ities, Norwalk,  Conn Edward 

Szkutak,  Jr.  has  been  named  a  manufacturing 

engineer  at  West  inghouse Steve 

Tarantino  holds  the  post  of  process  engineer  at 

du  Pont  in  Belle,  West  Virginia 

Pamela  Thomas  has  been  employed  as  a  man- 
ufacturing engineer  at  Communications 
Corp.,  Newport  Beach,  Calif. 

Mark  Tino  was  hired  as  a  staff  consultant 
in  the  Administrative  Services  Division  at  Ar- 
thur Andersen  &  Co.,  Boston John 

Titus  is  a  graduate  student  at  WPI 

fames  Torrey,  )r.  has  joined  Arthur  Andersen  & 
Co.,  Hartford,  Conn.,  where  he  is  a  staff  mem- 
ber  Gary  Traverso  has  been  named  as 

a  research  engineer  at  du  Font's  Savannah 

River  Plant,  Aiken,  S.C Gerald  Two- 

mey  is  with  ltx  Corporation,  Newton  High- 
lands, Mass. 

Edward  Tyburski  is  a  design  engineer  at 
Harris/Radio  Frequency  Communications  Di- 
vision, Rochester,  N.Y Robert  Voz- 

zola,  who  has  been  with  Redington  Counters 
in  Windsor,  Conn.,  is  slated  to  be  stationed  as 
an  Air  Force  pilot  and  2/Lt.  at  Columbus  afb 

in  Mississippi  in  March Chuong  Le 

Vu  is  a  member  of  the  advanced  engineering 
program  at  Honeywell  Information  Systems, 

Billerica,  Mass Bruce  Webster  works 

as  a  manufacturing  engineer  at  Parker  Manu- 
facturing in  Worcester David  Weiss 

was  named  a  manufacturing  engineer  at  East- 
man Kodak. 

Richard  Welch  holds  the  position  of  qual- 
ity control  engineer  at  unc  Resources,  Inc., 

Uncasville,  Conn Recently,  Peter 

Westcott  joined  rca  Automated  Systems  Divi- 
sion, Burlington,  Mass James  Wilbur 

works  as  a  technical  representative  at  Kemper 
Insurance  Company,  North  Quincy,  Mass. 
....  John  Wilbur  is  a  manufacturing  engi- 
neer with  ge  in  Lynn,  Mass David 

Wilson  has  joined  gte  Sylvania,  Needham, 
Mass. 

William  Woishnis  is  employed  as  a  plas- 
tics process  engineer  at  Hewlett-Packard  Co., 

Palo  Alto,  Calif Rosemary  Wojtowicz 

is  a  graduate  student  at  mit Robert 

Woodard  works  as  an  engineering  field  repre- 
sentative at  Industrial  Risk  Insurers  in  Phila- 
delphia  Eric  Worthington  serves  as  a 

programmer  at  Ensco,  Inc.,  Springfield,  Va. 

Pamela  Wright  is  a  lab  technician  in  the 

life  sciences  department  at  WPI Ho 

Ling  Yee  is  with  gca  Corp.  (Technology  Divi- 
sion) in  Bedford,  Mass Scott  Yeo- 

mans  has  been  named  an  actuarial  trainee  at 
Travelers  Insurance  Company,  Hartford, 

Conn H.  Michael  Yevak,  Jr.  has  been 

named  a  component  buyer  in  the  ge  manufac- 
turing management  program  at  Pittsfield, 
Mass. 

Melissa  Young  has  been  employed  by 
Teledyne  Engineering  Services,  Inc.,  Waltham, 

Mass Robert  Yule  is  with  du  Pont  in 

Belle,  West  Virginia John  Zagorski  is 

studying  for  his  doctorate  in  biochemistry  at 
Texas  Tech  in  Lubbock,  Texas.  He  received  an 
assistant  professorship  for  the  fall  term. 
....  John  Zelz,  Jr.  is  a  staff  engineer  at 
Hewlett-Packard,  Fairport,  N.Y. 


School  of  Indus- 
trial Management 

Harold  White,  '55,  has  been  appointed  vice 
president  and  general  manager  of  Norton's 
Coated  Abrasive  Division  in  the  United 
States.  Previously,  he  was  vice  president  and 
general  manager  of  the  company's  Organic 
Grinding  Wheel  Division,  and  was  also  re- 
sponsible for  Norton's  abrasives  business  in 
Canada.  Prior  to  his  appointment  to  that  post 
in  1979,  he  served  in  England  as  vice  president 
of  abrasive  operations  in  Northern  Europe. 

Nicholas  Moffa,  '56,  was  recently  elected 
chairman  of  the  board  of  the  Grinding  Wheel 
Institute.  The  cwi  is  an  association  of  U.S. 
manufacturers  of  grinding  wheels  with  head- 
quarters in  Cleveland.  Previously,  Moffa 
served  as  the  Institute's  vice  president  in  1975 
and  1976  and  was  elected  its  president  in 
1977.  He  also  became  president  of  Bay  State 
Abrasives,  Westboro,  Mass.  in  1977.  In  the 
role  of  chief  executive  at  Bay  State,  he  also  di- 
rects the  affairs  of  Anderson  Operations,  an  in- 
dustrial brush  manufacturer  in  Worcester  and 
Felker  Operations  in  Torrance,  Conn.  Felker 
produces  diamond  saw  blades  and  a  range  of 
machines  for  cutting  concrete,  masonry,  and 
tile.  Moffa  graduated  from  Northeastern  and 
Harvard  Business  School's  advanced  manage- 
ment program,  as  well  as  WPI's  School  of  In- 
dustrial Management. 

Alfred  Kastberg,  '61,  has  retired  as  execu- 
tive vice  president  of  Henry  L.  Hanson,  Inc., 
Worcester,  and  is  living  in  Hopkinton,  N.H. 

John  O'Malley,  '62  was  recently  pro- 
moted to  director  of  fiscal  services  at  Holden 
(Mass.)  District  Hospital.  He  is  responsible  for 
all  financial  cash  management,  accounting, 
billing  functions  and  data  processing.  He  has 
been  with  the  hospital  since  1966.  He  was  pre- 
sented with  the  1980  Founder's  Award  of  the 
Massachusetts  Chapter  of  the  Hospital  Finan- 
cial Management  Association.  The  award  is 
given  for  outstanding  service  in  chapter  activi- 
ties. A  director  of  the  organization,  O'Malley 
is  also  chairman  of  its  membership  commit- 
tee, and  serves  on  the  Founder's  Awards  Com- 
mittee. He  holds  the  post  of  chairman  of  the 
Central  Massachusetts  Financial  Council.  He 
is  a  member  of  the  Massachusetts  Hospital  As- 
sociation's Standing  Committee  on  Finance, 
where  he  is  the  only  representative  of  a  hospi- 
tal having  less  than  a  100-bed  capacity.  An  mba 
recipient  from  Anna  Maria  College,  O'Malley 
currently  teaches  in  the  mba  program  there. 
He  also  teaches  financial  management  in  an 
undergraduate  program  at  Worcester  State 
College. 

John  Porrazzo,  '63,  serves  as  manager  of 
engineering  at  Arrow  Automotive  Corporation 
in  Hudson,  Mass. 

Stephen  McCabe,  '64,  holds  the  post  of 
director  of  operations  at  Armatron  Interna- 
tional, Melrose,  Mass. 


George  Sonntag,  '68,  is  employed  at  Cin- 
cinnati Milacron-Heald  in  Worcester. 

John  J.  Shields,  '69,  married  Judith  A. 
Morse  in  Hudson,  New  Hampshire  on  Sep- 
tember 21,1 980.  The  bride,  a  sales  represen- 
tive  for  Digital  Corporation,  graduated  from 
Vermont  College.  Her  husband  graduated  horn 
the  School  of  Industrial  Management  at  WPI 
and  from  Harvard  School  of  Business  Adminis- 
tration. He  is  vice  president  of  Digital  Corpo- 
ration, Maynard,  Mass. 

Joseph  Flyrm,  '70.  serves  as  sales  supervi- 
sor at  Norton  Co.,  Worcester. 

Edward  Dykstra,  '73,  is  director  of  techni- 
cal services  and  EDP  planning  at  Warner- 
Lambert  Co.  in  Morris  Plains,  N.J. 

Kenneth  Paradis,  '75,  is  manager  of  labor 
relations  at  Monsanto  Enviro-Chemical  Co., 
St.  Louis,  Missouri. 

James  Dineen,  '78,  is  the  controller  and 
chief  financial  officer  at  Fitchburg  Coated 
Products  in  Scranton,  Pa. 

John  Ellison,  Jr.,  '78,  has  been  named  a 
vice  president  at  Galileo  Electro-Optics  Corpo- 
ration, Sturbridge,  Mass.  The  vice  president 
and  general  manager  of  Fused  Products  and 
Power  Supplies,  he  will  continue  to  be  respon- 
sible for  the  entire  fused  fiber  optic  product 
line,  including  all  military  and  commercial 
face-plates,  inverters,  magnifiers,  and  image 
conduits.  His  prior  experience  includes  the  po- 
sition of  general  manager  for  the  Fiber  Optics 
Division  of  American  Optical  Company  and 
sales  engineer  for  Connecticut  Light  and 
Power.  He  holds  a  bs  in  industrial  administra- 
tion from  the  University  of  Connecticut. 

Milton  Steen,  '79,  has  been  named  local 
manager  of  the  Attleboro  office  of  Massachu- 
setts Electric  Co.  He  heads  the  newly  created 
southeast  district,  which  is  a  consolidation  of 
the  company's  Attleboro,  Hopedale,  and 
Marlboro  districts.  Prior  to  his  new  post,  Steen 
was  manager  of  the  company's  Marlboro  dis- 
trict, where  he  supervised  electric  operations 
and  customer  service.  After  two  years  in  the 
Army,  he  joined  Mass.  Electric  in  1961  as  a 
student  trainee.  In  1962,  he  became  a  residen- 
tial sales  promotion  representative  in  the 
Worcester  office,  and  in  1964,  district  sales 
manager  in  the  Weymouth  district.  Following 
a  series  of  promotions,  in  1975,  he  was  named 
assistant  director  of  consumer  services  for 
New  England  Electric,  the  parent  company  of 
Mass.  Electric.  Steen  is  vice  president  of  the 
United  Fund  of  Westboro,  as  well  as  vice  presi- 
dent of  the  local  Chamber  of  Commerce  and 
Rotary  Club. 

Neil  Collins,  '80,  is  now  production  ad- 
ministrator and  project  engineer  at  Daverman 
&  Associates  in  Syracuse,  N.Y.  For  the  past 
two  years  he  was  chairman  of  the  Worcester 
County  Section  of  ieee. 

Alan  Fontaine,  '80,  has  been  named  gen- 
eral foreman  of  packaging,  sani  safe,  and  con- 
noisseur departments  at  Russell  Harrington 
Cutlery,  Inc.,  Southbridge,  Mass.  He  started  at 
Russell  Harrington  in  1973  as  a  service  man. 
He  was  promoted  to  management  responsibil- 
ities, first  as  an  assistant  supervisor  in  1975, 
then  as  supervisor  in  1978. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Winter  1981  /  29 


Franklin  C.  Green,  '06,  died  on  March  20, 
1980  in  Portland,  Oregon  at  the  age  of  94. 

He  was  born  on  May  24,  1885  in  Maui, 
Hawaii.  In  1906,  he  received  his  bsee  horn 
WPI.  Two  years  later  he  earned  his  profes- 
sional degree  in  electrical  engineering.  He  was 
a  retired  high  school  teacher. 

Leon  H.  Rice,  '  13,  of  Manchester,  New 
Hampshire  passed  away  in  August. 

A  Manchester  native,  he  was  born  on 
Oct.  28,  1890.  While  still  at  WPI,  he  joined 
Leighton  Machine  Co.,  Manchester,  and  re- 
mained with  the  firm  until  his  retirement  as 
treasurer  54  years  later.  In  1913,  he  graduated 
as  a  mechanical  engineer. 

Mr.  Rice  was  a  past  president  of  the  New 
Hampshire  Manufacturers  Association  and 
past  chairman  of  the  State  and  City  Industrial 
Councils. He  also  belonged  to  the  Masons 
(32nd  degree),  and  served  as  a  trustee  of  the 
ymca  and  the  Methodist  Church.  His  son, 
Leon,  graduated  from  WPI  in  1943. 

Malcolm  D.  Campbell,  '  14,  of  Leesburg,  Flor- 
ida passed  away  on  January  31,  1980. 

A  native  of  Reading,  Mass.,  he  was  born 
on  April  14,  1891.  After  studying  at  WPI,  he 
later  graduated  from  Massachusetts  Agricul- 
tural College.  In  1932  he  received  his  MEd 
from  Boston  Teachers  College. 

From  1918  to  1923  he  was  employed  at 
Norfolk  County  Agricultural  School,  and  from 
1923  to  1956,  he  was  with  Dorchester  High 
School,  Boston.  He  retired  in  1956  to  travel 
around  the  world. 

Mr.  Campbell  was  a  former  president  of 
both  the  New  England  Biological  Association 
and  the  National  Association  of  Biology 
Teachers.  A  past  president  of  the  Lawn  Bowl- 
ing Club  of  Milton,  he  was  also  a  former  presi- 
dent of  the  Town  Club  of  Milton.  He  had  been 
a  Mason  and  a  deputy  of  the  Boy  Scouts.  Just 
prior  to  his  death,  he  conducted  a  class  of  27  in 
life  history  writing  at  the  Hawthorne  retire- 
ment community  in  Leesburg. 

Ray  C.  Crouch,  '  14,  of  Dallas,  Texas  died  on 
July  12,  1980. 

In  1914  he  graduated  from  WPI  as  a  me- 
chanical engineer.  During  his  career,  he  was 
with  Riter  Conley,  A.G.  Reeves  Construction 
Co.,  and  Buffalo  Tank,  a  division  of  Bethle- 
hem Steel.  He  retired  as  works  manager  and 
sales  manager  from  Buffalo  Tank  in  1958. 


Mr.  Crouch,  who  was  born  on  June  12, 
1890  in  Thomaston,  Conn.,  was  a  past  mem- 
ber of  the  asme,  the  American  Welding  Society, 
American  Metals  Society,  and  the  National 
Safety  Council.  He  had  served  as  director  of 
the  Sewickley,  Pa.  ymca,  as  church  vestry- 
man, and  as  a  sector  warden  for  Civil  Defense 
during  World  War  n.  He  was  a  former  officer  in 
the  Northern  New  Jersey  Chapter  and  Western 
New  York  Chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association. 

Earl  C.  Hughes,  '  14,  WPI  trustee  emeritus, 
died  at  his  home  in  Jupiter,  Florida  on  Novem- 
ber 15,  1980. 

Before  retiring  in  1959,  Mr.  Hughes  was 
president  and  chairman  of  the  board  of  Bay 
State  Abrasives  in  Westboro,  Mass.  He  joined 
Bay  State  in  1936,  after  serving  as  assistant 
sales  manager  of  the  Grinding  Wheel  Division 
at  Norton  Co.  He  was  director  of  the  L.S.  Star- 
rett  Co.,  Athol;  Warren  Pumps,  Inc.,  Warren; 
and  the  Associated  Industries  of  Massachu- 
setts. He  held  the  post  of  president  and  chair- 
man of  the  Grinding  Wheel  Institute. 

A  native  of  Worcester,  he  was  bom  on 
Sept.  30,  1892.  In  1914,  he  received  his  bsce 
from  WPI.  He  was  awarded  an  honorary  doctor 
of  engineering  degree  in  1963. 

Mr.  Hughes,  a  member  of  Phi  Gamma 
Delta,  also  belonged  to  the  Worcester  Art  Mu- 
seum, Newcomen  Society,  Massachusetts 
(and  Worcester)  Horticultural  Society,  four 
country  clubs,  the  Worcester  Committee  on 
Foreign  Relations,  Worcester  Economic  Club, 
Worcester  Natural  History  Society,  the  Ma- 
sons, and  the  Worcester  County  Music  Associ- 
ation. He  was  a  trustee  of  Hahnemann 
Hospital  and  the  Worcester  County  Hearing 
and  Speech  Center.  For  many  years,  he  was  a 
vestryman  at  All  Saints  Episcopal  Church. 

In  1917,  during  World  War  I,  Mr.  Hughes 
was  commissioned  a  first  lieutenant  at  offi- 
cer's training  camp  in  Plattsburgh,  N.Y.  Later, 
he  was  assigned  to  the  Infantry,  before  being 
transferred  to  the  Air  Service.  After  spending 
three  months  at  the  mit  School  of  Military 
Aeronautics,  he  was  assigned  to  the  Aviation 
Military  Repair  Depot  in  Dallas,  Texas.  He 
was  commanding  officer  of  the  877th  Aero 
Squadron  before  being  discharged  as  a  captain 
in  1919. 

Besides  being  a  life  member  of  the  WPI 
board  of  trustees,  Mr.  Hughes  served  WPI  in 
many  other  capacities.  He  was,  for  example, 
chairman  of  Techni-Forum  in  1955  and  1956; 
a  representative  on  the  Alumni  Council  from 
1953  to  1955;  and  a  member  of  the  President's 
Advisory  Council.  Before  retiring  to  Florida, 
he  donated  his  home  at  15  Regent  St.  to  WPI, 
the  residence  now  being  the  permanent  home 
of  the  vice  president  and  dean  of  the  faculty.  In 
1975,  he  received  the  Herbert  F.  Taylor  Award 
from  the  Alumni  Association. 


Earle  E.  Andrews,  '15,  a  retired  attorney,  died 
in  Rochester,  New  Hampshire  on  September 
7,  1980  at  the  age  of  91. 

He  was  bom  on  July  2,  1889  in  Bingham, 
Me.,  and  later  became  a  member  of  the  Class 
of  1915.  He  graduated  from  Boston  University 
Law  School  in  1916.  In  1917  he  enlisted  in  the 
Army  and  continued  in  the  active  reserves,  re- 
tiring as  a  captain  in  the  Quartermaster  Corps 
in  1942. 

He  was  employed  as  a  compensation  trial 
attorney  for  the  Lumberman's  Mutual  Casu- 
alty Co.  of  Boston  until  he  retired  in  1954. 
Then  he  was  associated  with  the  law  firm  of 
Horovitz  and  Horovitz,  Boston,  retiring  in 
1978. 

A  senior  member  of  the  Oklahoma  Bar 
Association,  he  was  a  past  member  of  the 
American  Bar,  the  Middlesex  Bar  and  the  Mas- 
sachusetts Bar  Associations.  He  was  an  active 
member  of  the  Masons.  He  belonged  to  ato, 
the  Doll  Collectors  of  America,  the  Rushlight 
Club,  the  Massachusetts  Society  of  Mayflower 
Descendants,  and  the  Congregational  Church. 
He  served  as  a  past  chairman  of  the  Winches- 
ter, Mass.  Finance  Committee.  For  several 
years,  he  was  chairman  of  the  Winchester 
Board  of  Public  Welfare. 

Raymond  P.  Lansing,  '  15,  an  internationally 
known  inventor  and  a  retired  vice  president  of 
the  Bendix  Aviation  Corp.,  died  in  Old  Lyme, 
Connecticut  on  October  17,  1980.  He  was  86. 

In  1951,  Mr.  Lansing  was  awarded  an 
honorary  doctor  of  science  degree  from  WPI. 
At  the  time,  he  was  vice  president  and  director 
of  Bendix  Aviation.  During  his  many  years 
with  the  company,  he  contributed  to  the  de- 
sign of  accessory  devices  upon  which  the  effi- 
cient and  safe  operation  of  aircraft  depends.  In 
recognition  of  his  efforts  in  World  War  n,  he 
was  one  of  60  leaders  of  the  aviation  industry 
to  receive  a  presidential  award  of  merit  and 
was  especially  cited  for  pioneer  work  in  the 
field  of  aircraft  instrument  and  accessory  pro- 
duction. 

After  fifty  years'  association  with  the  avi- 
ation industry,  Mr.  Lansing  retired  in  1965.  He 
obtained  150  patents  for  aviation  devices.  One 
patent  was  for  the  first  direct  cranking  aircraft 
engine  starter  which  he  developed  for  the 
World  War  I  Liberty  engine. 

He  joined  Bendix  in  1916  as  an  engineer 
for  the  Bijur  Motor  Appliance  Co.,  and  contin- 
ued with  the  firm  when  it  was  acquired  by  the 
Bendix  Eclipse  Aviation  Company.  In  1929,  he 
became  vice  president  at  Eclipse.  He  served  as 
a  group  executive  over  the  eastern  divisions  of 
Bendix,  and  was  elected  a  director  in  1945. 

Mr.  Lansing  was  an  associate  fellow  of  the 
American  Institute  of  Aeronautics  and  Astro- 
nautics and  a  member  of  the  Society  of  Auto- 
motive Engineers,  American  Ordnance 
Association,  American  Rocket  Society,  Bergen 
County  Chamber  of  Commerce,  New  Jersey 
State  Chamber  of  Commerce,  and  the  Mont- 
clair  Chapter  of  the  Sons  of  the  American  Rev- 
olution. An  advisor  to  Fairleigh  Dickinson 
University,  he  was  also  a  retired  lieutenant 
commander  in  the  U.S.  Naval  Reserve.  He 
was  bom  on  Dec.  26,  1893  in  Brooklyn,  N.Y. 
In  1915,  he  graduated  as  a  mechanical  engi- 
neer from  WPI.  Formerly,  he  served  as  vice 
president  of  the  Northern  New  Jersey  chapter 
of  the  Alumni  Association,  and  as  a  member 
of  the  President's  Advisory  Council.  He  held 
an  honorary  lld  from  Fairleigh  Dickinson. 


30  /  Winter  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


Harold  Nutt,  '  16,  died  in  Fort  Lauderdale, 
Florida  on  October  23,  1980,  the  day  following 
the  death  of  his  wife,  Margaret. 

He  graduated  as  a  mechanical  engineer 
from  WPI  in  1916.  During  his  career,  he  was 
with  B.F.  Sturtevant  Co.,  Fairbanks  Morse, 
Premier  Motor  Co.,  and  Durant  Motors.  From 
1930  until  he  retired  in  1962,  he  was  vice  pres- 
ident of  engineering,  then  president,  general 
manager,  and  chief  executive  officer  of  the 
Borg  &  Beck  Division  of  Borg  Warner  Corp., 
Chicago. 

Mr.  Nutt  belonged  to  Tau  Beta  Pi,  Sigma 
Xi,  and  the  Society  of  Automotive  Engineers, 
which  he  formerly  served  as  chairman  of  the 
Chicago  section.  In  1954,  he  was  named  vice 
president  of  passenger  car  engineering  by  the 
Society.  A  member  of  the  Coral  Ridge  Yacht 
Club  of  Fort  Lauderdale,  he  was  also  a  former 
member  of  the  South  Shore  Country  Club, 
Chicago. 

He  was  born  in  New  Rochelle,  N.Y.  on 
Dec.  3,  1893.  His  brother,  Arthur  Nutt,  also 
graduated  from  WPI  in  1916. 


Frederick  W.  Bauder,  '20,  professor  emeritus  of 
chemistry  at  Newark  College  of  Engineering, 
passed  away  at  Overlook  Hospital  in  Summit, 
New  Jersey  on  August  24,  1980.  He  was  83 
years  old. 

For  the  past  12  years,  Dr.  Bauder  was  a 
consultant  in  industrial  waste  control  for  the 
joint  meeting  of  Essex  and  Union  Counties,  a 
regional  sewer  system.  He  was  a  professor  of 
chemistry  at  Newark  College  of  Technology 
(New  Jersey  Institute  of  Technology)  for  27 
years.  In  1945  he  received  his  MS  from 
Stevens  Institute  of  Technology  followed  by  a 
doctorate  from  Columbia  University. 

He  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappa  and 
Omicron  Delta  Kappa  fraternities.  A  registered 
engineer,  Dr.  Bauder  was  a  member  of  the 
American  Society  of  Engineering.  Also,  he  was 
a  certified  chemist  and  a  fellow  of  the  Ameri- 
can Institute  of  Chemists  the  the  American 
Chemists  Society.  He  was  a  Navy  veteran  of 
World  War  I.  A  native  of  Newark,  N.J.,  he  was 
born  on  July  24,  1897. 

Wilfred  H.  Howe,  '22,  retired  chief  engineer  of 
the  Foxboro  Co.,  died  on  October  30,  1980  in 
Attleboro,  Mass.  He  was  78. 

From  1969  to  1975,  he  was  a  selectman  in 
Sharon,  Mass.,  and  served  on  various  town 
committees.  He  was  chairman  of  the  Harvard 
Business  School  Alumni  Association,  past 
president  of  the  Sharon  Rotary  Club,  and  a 
Mason. 

After  graduating  horn  WPI  as  an  electrical 
engineer  in  1922  and  receiving  his  MBA  from 
Harvard,  Mr.  Howe  joined  ge  for  two  years. 
Later,  he  was  employed  by  Alden  Mfg.  Co., 
Atlantic  Precision  Instrument  Co.,  and  Fox- 
boro Co.  He  belonged  to  ieee  (fellow),  isa,  the 
asme,  Phi  Gamma  Delta,  Sigma  Xi,  and  the 
Congregational  Church.  A  Worcester  native, 
he  was  born  on  March  13,  1902. 


Stanley  M.  Townsend,  '22,  of  Pleasant  Hill, 
Tennessee  passed  away  on  August  31,  1980. 

He  was  born  on  July  15,  1899  in  Worces 
ter.  A  membei  of  the  Class  of  1922,  he  retired 
horn  Michigan  Bell  Telephone  Company  in 
1961.  Prior  to  his  retirement,  he  was  a  partner 
in  Jensen-Townsend  Printing  Co.,  from  which 
he  retired  in  1977. 

Mr.  Townsend  was  a  Past  Master  of  the 
Masons  and  a  past  Noble  Grand  of  the  ioof.  He 
was  a  founder  of  the  Museum  of  Arts  &  His- 
tory, a  membei  ol  the  Salvation  Army  Advi- 
sory Board,  and  a  chairman  of  the  Board  of  the 
Visiting  Nurses  Association.  He  1956  he  was 
elected  supervisor  of  Fort  Gratiot  Township. 

W.  Roy  Carrick,  '23,  founder  and  president  of 
the  Carrick  Agency  of  Worcester,  Northbridge, 
and  Hopedale,  died  at  his  home  in  East 
Douglas,  Massachusetts  on  August  26,  1980. 
He  was  78. 

He  had  been  in  the  insurance  business  for 
over  fifty  years,  and  was  a  former  general  agent 
of  the  Aetna  Life  Insurance  Company  of 
Worcester,  a  charter  life  underwriter,  and  a  life 
member  of  the  Million  Dollar  Round  Table. 

Mr.  Carrick,  a  Worcester  native,  was  born 
on  December  8,  1901 .  He  was  a  former  direc- 
tor of  the  Old  Colony  Bank  of  Worcester 
County,  and  a  member  of  the  Masons,  the 
Shrine,  the  Worcester  Club,  and  the  Congrega- 
tional Church.  He  was  a  member  of  the  Class 
of  1923,  and  belonged  to  Phi  Gamma  Delta. 

Edwin  M.  Bailey,  '25,  a  former  member  of  the 
President's  Advisory  Council  at  WPI,  died  at 
his  home  in  Amesbury,  Massachusetts  on  Sep- 
tember 10,  1980  following  a  brief  illness. 

At  one  time  a  Bailey  Co.  vice  president, 
Mr.  Bailey  was  also  past  chairman  of  the 
Amesbury  bpw.  He  was  bom  in  Amesbury  on 
April  27,  1902,  and  was  a  member  of  the  Class 
of  1925. 

He  was  employed  by  the  Bailey  Co.  in 
Amesbury  for  27  years,  becoming  vice  presi- 
dent, treasurer,  and  secretary  prior  to  retire- 
ment. Previously,  he  was  with  the 
Massachusetts  Department  of  Public  Works 
for  15  years.  In  World  War  U  he  was  a  civil  en- 
gineer for  the  U.S.  Navy  in  Kittery,  Me.,  Mel- 
bourne, Fla.,  and  Hitchcock,  Texas.  Also,  he 
was  an  engineer  for  the  Army  along  the  New 
England  coast. 

Mr.  Bailey  was  elected  to  the  Amesbury 
Board  of  Sewer  and  Water  Commissioners, 
and  the  Board  of  Public  Works,  which  he 
served  as  chairman  for  seven  years.  He  was  ac- 
tive in  the  Masons  and  the  Shrine,  as  well  as 
the  U.S.  Power  Squadron,  in  which  he  held 
the  rank  of  navigator.  A  past  commander  of 
the  Merrimack  River  Power  Squadron,  he  was 
also  a  former  commander  of  District  18  for 
squadrons  in  Essex  County. 

For  the  past  15  years,  he  and  his  wife  trav- 
eled extensively.  They  had  been  around  the 
world  three  times,  and  had  visited  all  the  Eu- 
ropean countries  except  two. 

Vincent  J.  Goodwin,  '25,  former  superintend- 
ent at  Leland-Gifford,  Worcester,  died  at 
Hahnemann  Hospital  on  September  19,  1980. 
He  was  79  years  old. 

An  engineer  at  Leland-Gifford  for  fifty 
years,  Mr.  Goodwin  retired  in  1970.  He  was 
bom  in  Worcester  on  Nov.  25,  1900,  and  grad- 
uated as  a  mechanical  engineer  from  WPI  in 
1925.  He  belonged  to  sae.  He  was  the  father  of 
Richard  E.  Goodwin  of  the  Class  of  1955. 


Julian  B.  Pendleton,  '25,  a  retired  civil  engi- 
neer horn  Creole  Petroleum  Corp.,  died  in 
Dunnellon,  Florida  on  September  25,  1980.  He 
was  77. 

A  native  of  Hardwick,  Vt.,  he  was  bom  on 
Feb   14,  1903  Prior  to  joining  Creole  Petro- 
leum in  1929,  he  was  employed  by  New  Eng- 
land Power  Co.,  and  the  Pennsylvania 
Highway  Dept.  In  1960,  he  retired  from  Cre- 
ole. While  with  the  firm,  he  was  located  for  a 
number  of  years  in  Venezuela. 

Mr.  Pendleton  belonged  to  sae,  the  asce, 
the  Masons,  and  the  Lions  Club.  He  received 
hisBSCE  in  1925. 

Warren  T.  Went  worth,  '26,  died  in  Lynn,  Mas- 
sachusetts on  October  28,  1980  following  a 
brief  illness.  He  was  78  years  old. 

Bom  in  Tonawanda,  N.Y.  on  Oct.  25, 
1902,  he  was  a  member  of  the  Class  of  1926. 
He  attended  Yale. 

Thirteen  years  ago  he  retired  as  a  senior 
designer  after  30  years  at  General  Electric's 
River  Works.  Following  retirement,  he  taught 
mathematics  and  drafting  at  Northeast  Insti- 
tute of  Industrial  Technology,  Boston. 

He  belonged  to  the  Amateur  Telescope 
Club  of  Boston,  and  he  was  a  supporter  of  the 
Lynn  Philharmonic  Orchestra  and  other  musi- 
cal organizations.  He  was  a  past  president  of 
the  Greater  Lynn  Camera  Club. 

Duncan  G.  Jackson,  '28,  a  well-known  busi- 
nessman in  Nashua,  New  Hampshire,  died  in 
September  at  the  age  of  73. 

He  was  bom  in  Fall  River,  Mass.  on  Oct. 
14,  1906,  and  later  became  a  member  of  the 
Class  of  1928.  He  was  the  owner  and  president 
of  the  former  Nashua  Grain  Company,  and  un- 
til two  years  ago,  had  been  a  Ward  2  select- 
man. 

Active  in  scouting  for  many  years,  he  was 
the  recipient  of  the  Silver  Beaver  Award  for 
distinguished  service.  He  was  a  former  chair- 
man of  the  Algonquin  District  bsa.  He  was  a 
Mason,  a  member  of  the  Nashua  Finance 
Club,  and  a  veteran  of  World  War  II. 

Luther  Q.  H.  Chin,  '29,  died  on  November  20, 
1980  at  his  home  in  Freeport,  New  York. 

AWorcester  native,  he  was  bom  on  Dec. 
24,  1908.  In  1929,  he  received  his  bsee  from 
WPI.  Before  he  retired,  he  was  a  sales  engineer 
with  Westinghouse  Electric  International, 
New  York  City.  From  1936  to  1944,  he  taught 
electrical  engineering  at  National  Central  Uni- 
versity in  Nanking,  China.  Also,  he  had  man- 
aged the  Hong  Fong  Low  Restaurant  in 
Worcester,  and  served  as  a  lecturer  at  the 
World's  Fair  in  Chicago  in  1933. 

Mr.  Chin  belonged  to  the  aiee,  the  Chi- 
nese Institute  of  Engineers,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  and 
Sigma  Xi.  He  was  a  licensed,  professional  engi- 
neer. 

Norman  W.  Gaudreau,  '37,  retired  president  of 
Bay  State  Tool  and  Machine  Co.,  Springfield, 
Massachusetts,  died  in  August  at  the  Bay  State 
Medical  Center. 

In  1937,  he  graduated  as  a  civil  engineer 
from  WPI.  He  had  been  with  Bay  State  since 
1939.  Earlier,  he  worked  for  Factory  Insurance 
Association.  He  belonged  to  the  American  So- 
ciety of  Tool  Engineers,  Army  Ordnance  Asso- 
ciation, and  the  National  Tool  &  Die 
Manufacturers. 

He  was  a  past  president  of  the  Connecti- 
cut Valley  chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association, 
and  a  native  of  New  Britain,  Conn.,  where  he 
was  bom  on  Oct.  9,  1913. 


Charles  H.  Amidon,  Jr.,  '39,  a  consultant  at 
the  Jamesbury  Corp.,  died  on  November  17, 
1980  in  St.  Vincent  Hospital,  Worcester.  He 
was  63. 

During  his  career,  he  was  with  Seth  Tho- 
mas Clocks,  Pullman-Standard,  Heald  Ma- 
chine, Rodney  Hunt  Co.,  Foster  Machine  Co., 
Textile  Machine  Works,  Butterworth  Machine 
Co.,  and  David  Gessner  Co.  Several  years  ago, 
he  became  a  self-employed  consultant.  He  was 
a  consultant  for  Jamesbury  Corp.,  Worcester, 
for  four  years. 

Mr.  Amidon  graduated  as  a  mechanical 
engineer  from  WPI.  He  was  a  member  of  Tau 
Beta  Pi,  Theta  Chi,  the  Worcester  Art  Mu- 
seum, the  Masons,  and  the  Massachusetts  As- 
sociation for  Retarded  Children. 

A  registered,  professional  engineer,  he 
also  belonged  to  the  asme.  He  belonged  to  the 
Friends  of  the  Worcester  Public  Library, 
Holden  Historical  Society,  the  Circus  Histori- 
cal Association,  Circus  Fans  of  America,  and 
Circus  Model  Builders.  An  authority  on  circus 
history,  he  wrote  and  illustrated  various  circus 
books  and  magazines.  He  was  born  in  Worces- 
ter on  Aug.  25,  1917. 

Melvin  T.  Rafuse,  '39,  died  at  his  home  in 
Holden,  Massachusetts  on  August  14,  1980. 
He  was  63. 

He  was  bom  on  Aug.  17,  1916  in  Worces- 
ter. In  1939  he  received  his  bsme  from  WPI.  For 
41  years  he  served  as  a  sales  engineer  for  Heald 
Machine  Co.,  a  division  of  Cincinnati  Mila- 
cron  in  Worcester. 

Mr.  Rafuse  belonged  to  the  Zion  Lutheran 
Church.  He  was  a  32nd  degree  Mason,  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Eastern  Star,  the  Scottish  Hirams, 
Heald  Hirams,  all  Scottish  Rite  Bodies,  and 
the  Massachusetts  Consistory. 

Merrill  W.  Wright,  '41,  a  former  industrialist 
and  civic  leader,  died  recently  at  his  home  in 
Leesburg,  Florida  at  the  age  of  62. 

The  retired  chairman  of  the  board  of  G.F. 
Wright  Steel  &  Wire  Co.,  Worcester,  Mr. 
Wright  had  also  served  as  a  president  of  the 
National  Rifle  Association.  In  1976,  he  retired 
from  Wright  after  35  years  of  service.  During 
his  career,  he  was  employed  in  the  family 
company  as  assistant  manager,  company  man- 
ager, treasurer,  executive  vice  president,  presi- 
dent, and  chairman  of  the  board. 

He  was  concerned  with  civic  affairs  in 
Auburn,  where  he  was  a  past  chairman  of  the 
board  of  selectmen,  as  well  as  former  chair- 
man of  the  street  lighting  committee,  and  of 
the  town  hall  rehabilitation  committee.  He 
belonged  to  the  sidewalk  committee,  and  was 
appointed  a  town  police  officer  and  Civil  De- 
fense director.  He  had  been  a  trustee  of  the 
Congregational  Church. 

Mr.  Wright  was  born  in  Worcester  on  Apr. 
5,  1918.  Later  he  enrolled  at  WPI  and  at  Bryant 
and  Stratton.  He  once  said  that  from  the  age  of 
five,  he  was  "hooked  on  guns,   .... 
possibly  because  my  mother  was  a  Hickock 
and  there  is  a  family  connection  with  the  fa- 
mous U.S.  marshal  and  pistol  marksman, 
Wild  Bill  Hickock."  He  was  a  former  secretary 
of  the  New  England  Police  Revolver  League. 


Besides  being  a  32nd  degree  Mason  and  a 
Shriner,  Mr.  Wright  was  active  in  the  Wire  In- 
stitute of  America,  the  Rotary,  the  Sea  Scouts, 
and  the  U.S.  Savings  Bonds  program.  In  Flor- 
ida, he  served  as  planning  director  of  the  Lake 
County  Emergency  Services  and  treasurer  of 
Agro-Energy,  a  group  formed  to  develop  a 
process  of  conversion  of  citrus  juices  into  me- 
thanol and  which  had  developed  engines  to 
run  on  such  fuel.  He  belonged  to  Alpha  Tau 
Omega. 

William  C.  Woods,  Jr.,  42,  of  Manhasset,  New 
York  passed  away  on  November  6,  1980. 

He  was  born  on  March  25,  1919  in  New 
York  City.  After  graduating  as  an  electrical  en- 
gineer from  WPI,  he  saw  active  duty  as  a  lieu- 
tenant in  the  U.S.  Navy.  In  1946,  he  joined 
Western  Union.  From  1952  to  1954  he  served 
as  a  commander  in  the  Navy.  He  was  a  senior 
engineer  for  Sperry  Gyroscope  for  eleven 
years. 

In  1965,  he  became  a  senior  staff  engineer 
at  Grumman  Aerospace  Co.,  Bethpage,  NY. 
He  was  a  member  of  the  ieee  and  the  ire. 

Frank  H.  Parsons,  Jr.,  '45,  co-owner  of  the 
Acushnet  Fish  Corp.,  died  in  New  Bedford, 
Massachusetts  on  September  28,  1980. 

He  was  bom  on  Nov.  28,  1923  in  Provin- 
cetown,  Mass.,  and  later  became  a  member  of 
the  Class  of  1945.  He  graduated  from  Massa- 
chusetts Maritime  Academy.  During  World 
War  II,  he  served  in  the  Merchant  Marine. 

Besides  being  co-owner  and  vice  president 
of  Acushnet  Fish  Corp.,  Mr.  Parsons  was  gen- 
eral manager  of  Capt.  Frank's  Seafood  Market 
in  New  Bedford.  He  belonged  to  pkt. 

Robert  A.  Hughes,  '54  sim,  died  on  November 
1,  1980  in  Worcester  at  the  age  of  62. 

A  former  plant  superintendent  at  Rexnord 
Co.,  Worcester,  he  worked  there  for  37  years 
before  retiring  in  1973.  He  was  a  Worcester  na- 
tive, and  lived  in  Paxton  for  56  years.  At  one 
time,  he  belonged  to  the  Sons  of  Paxton. 

Arthur  J.  Soderberg,  '55  sim,  died  recently  at 
Cape  Cod  Hospital  in  Hyannis,  Mass.  He  was 
a  retired  purchasing  agent  for  Coes  Knife  Co. 

Alton  C.  Churbuck,  '56,  of  Cotuit,  Massachu- 
setts was  killed  in  an  auto  accident  on  March 
12,  1980. 

A  native  of  Melrose,  Mass.,  he  was  bom 
on  Feb.  16,  1934.  He  was  a  member  of  the 
Class  of  1956,  and  received  his  bs  from  Boston 
University  and  his  mba  from  Harvard  Business 
School.  He  belonged  to  Lambda  Chi  Alpha. 

During  his  career,  he  was  with  Minneap- 
olis Honeywell  and  Arthur  Andersen  &  Co., 
Houston,  Texas.  He  also  served  as  president  of 
Maple  Wood  Products  Co. 

Wilbur  S.  Ekman,  '59,  died  on  September  3, 
1980  in  Hartford,  Connecticut.  He  was  43 
years  old. 

For  over  twenty  years  he  was  a  chemical 
engineer  at  Armstrong  Rubber  Co.,  where  he 
served  as  a  radial  tire  compounder.  In  his  lei- 
sure hours,  he  was  active  with  the  Midget 
Football  "Ray  Tellier"  League  in  West  Haven. 

A  native  of  Hartford,  he  was  bom  on  June 
16,  1937.  He  was  a  member  of  Lambda  Chi  Al- 
pha. In  1959  he  received  his  bs  in  chemical  en- 
gineering from  WPI. 


Stanley  V.  MacNeill,  '60  sim,  of  Hudson,  Mas- 
sachusetts, died  October  10,  1980.  He  was  66 
years  old. 

Before  retiring  in  1978,  he  was  mainte- 
nance manager  for  the  Worcester  Gas  and 
Light  Co.  for  39  years.  He  had  belonged  to  the 
Unitarian  Church,  the  Masons,  and  the  Rotary 
Club,  and  was  an  auxiliary  police  officer  for 
the  Marlborough  Police  Department.  He  was  a 
notary  public. 

Robert  M.  Wallace,  '60,  a  computer  specialist, 
passed  away  in  Dayton,  Ohio  on  June  24,  1980 
at  the  age  of  42. 

Since  1967,  Wallace  was  employed  by  the 
Foreign  Technology  Division  at  Wright- 
Patterson  afb  in  Dayton.  He  was  a  pioneer  in 
the  field  of  machine  translation:  Russian  to 
English.  In  June  of  1979,  he  was  invited  by  a 
Canadian  company  to  participate  in  a  panel 
discussion  and  present  a  paper  to  an  interna- 
tional convention  in  Bermuda.  In  May  of 
1980,  he  was  invited  to  preside  at  the  9th  Mid- 
Year  Meeting  of  the  American  Society  for  In- 
formation Science  at  Robert  Morris  College  in 
Pittsburgh  at  a  discussion  of  Automated  Lan- 
guage Processing. 

He  belonged  to  Phi  Kappa  Theta,  and  was 
a  graduate  of  the  University  of  Massachusetts 
at  Amherst.  He  was  born  on  June  20,  1938  in 
Milford,  Mass.,  and  was  a  member  of  the 
Class  of  1960. 

Maurice  D.  Letourneau,  '73,  a  former  teacher 
at  Quabbin  Regional  High  School,  died  at  his 
home  in  Oakham,  Massachusetts  on  Novem- 
ber 1,  1980.  He  was  42. 

He  graduated  from  Worcester  State  Col- 
lege, then  received  his  ms  in  mathematics 
from  WPI  in  1973.  Until  last  year,  he  had 
taught  for  several  years  at  Quabbin  Regional  in 
Barre,  Mass.  He  was  a  native  of  Holden. 

Steven  A.  Spaulding,  '78,  was  killed  in  an  au- 
tomobile accident  on  April  18,  1980  in  Seattle, 
Washington  at  the  age  of  24. 

At  the  time  of  his  death,  he  was  with  the 
Boeing  Company.  After  leaving  WPI,  he  en- 
tered Virginia  Polytechnic  institute  and  State 
University. 

Gary  F.  Pietryk,  '79,  of  Holyoke,  Massachu- 
setts died  in  a  head-on  automobile  crash  in 
Connecticut  on  October  26,  1980. 

He  was  bom  on  Sept.  19,  1957  in  Ho- 
lyoke, Mass.  In  1979,  he  graduated  as  a  me- 
chanical engineer  from  WPI.  He  was 
employed  by  Combustion  Engineering  of 
Windsor,  Conn.,  and  belonged  to  the  asme. 


32  /  Winter  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


N0R1       iST 

APR 

MEDFORD,  MASS.  ' 


J 


$ 


\ 


Spring  1981 


Ilipp 


Vol.  84,  No.  5 


O 


Spring  1981 


10 


Tom  Keil 

It's  not  the  physics  of  music,  but  the  music  of  the 
physicist. 

Planning  your  family's  financial  future 

Gilbert  Osborn  discusses  some  of  the  considerations 
that  have  to  go  into  financial  planning,  with  a  look  at 
how  some  farsighted  individuals  have  helped  WPI  at 
the  same  time  they  have  been  planning  for  their  fam- 
ily's future. 

Things  to  consider  in  financial  planning 

An  interview  with  WPI  tax  counsel  Conrad  Teitell 
about  the  many  options  in  estate  planning,  together 
with  their  many  and  varied  tax  and  income 
implications. 

The  coming  crunch  in  the  computer  business 

A  look  at  what  the  federal  government  has  labeled  the 
most  serious  manpower  shortage  for  at  least  the  next 
decade. 


16  Tech  Old  Timers 

The  many  activities  of  WPI's  most  active  alumni  group. 

17  Your  class  and  others 

20        Nothing  negative  about  this  feedback! 

WPI's  Harold  Black,  '21,  is  inducted  into  the  highly 
exclusive  National  Inventors  Hall  of  Fame. 


32        Completed  Careers 


Cover:  You  can  always  tell  when  it's  Spring  around  WPI  by 
the  appearance  of  the  surveyors  around  the  campus  and  in 
Institute  Park. 


Editor:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Alumni  Information  Editor:  Ruth  S.  Trask 

Designer:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Typesetting:  County  Photo  Compositing, 
Inc.,  Jefferson,  Mass. 

Printing:  Davis  Press,  Inc.,  Worcester,  Mass. 

Alumni  Publications  Committee:  Donald  E. 
Ross,  '54,  chairman;  Robert  C.  Gosling,  '68; 
Sidney  Madwed,  '49;  Samuel  W.  Mencow,  '37; 
Kathleen  Molony,  '77;  Stanley  P.  Negus,  Jr., 
'54- 


Address  all  correspondence  to  the  Editor,  The 
WPI  Journal,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute, 
Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609.  Telephone 
(617) 753-1411. 

The  WPI  Journal  is  published  for  the  WPI 
Alumni  Association  by  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute.  Copyright  ©  1981  by  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute.  All  rights  reserved. 

The  WPI  Journal  (usps  issn  no.  0148-6128)  is 
published  five  times  a  year,  quarterly  plus  a 
catalog  issue  (identified  as  no.  2)  in  September. 
Second  Class  postage  paid  at  Worcester,  Mas- 
sachusetts. 


WPI  ALUMNI  ASSOCIATION 

President:  John  H.  McCabe,  '68 

Senior  Vice  President:  Peter  H.  Horstmann, 
'55 

Vice  President:  Clark  Poland,  '48 

Secretary-Treasurer:  Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President:  William  A.  Julian,  '49 

Executive  Committee  members-at-large: 
Philip  B.  Ryan,  '65;  Donald  E.  Ross,  '54;  An- 
son C.  Fyler,  '45;  Harry  W  Tenney,  Jr.,  '56 

Fund  Board:  Henry  Styskal,  Jr.,  '50,  chair- 
man; Richard  B.  Kennedy,  '65,  vice  chairman; 
Gerald  Finkle,  '57;  Philip H.  Puddington,  '59; 
Richard  A.  Davis,  '53;  C.  John  Lindegren,  '39; 
John  H.  Tracy,  '52 


Tom  Keil 


Dr.  Thomas  H.  Keil,  professor  of  physics  at  WPI 
since  1967,  practices  what  he  teaches. 
On  campus,  he  is  involved  with  energy- 
related  projects  covering  solar  design.  Back  home  at  his 
Dutch  colonial  on  Roseland  Road,  he  has  put  a  number  of 
his  classroom  theories  into  down-to-earth  practical  use — 
with  rewarding  results.  "In  1968,  we  heated  our  2000-sq. 
ft.  house  for  $300,"  he  reports.  "In  1980,  our  heating  bill 
for  the  same  house  was  $300." 

The  Keils,  who  have  an  oil  furnace,  did  not  suddenly 
strike  oil  in  their  backyard.  "We  use  the  furnace  only  for 
backup  heat,"  Keil  explains.  "Our  primary  heating 
sources  are  a  coal  stove  and  lots  of  glazing  on  the  south 
side  of  the  house,  which  provides  a  generous  amount  of 
free  solar  heat." 

The  sun  also  heats  the  hot  water  for  his  family  of 
four.  A  few  years  back,  he  had  a  solar  hot  water  collector 
installed  on  the  roof.  "With  the  tax  credits  allowed  for 
such  an  installation,  we've  come  out  ahead  there,  too," 
he  says.  Not  leaving  anything  to  chance,  Keil  has  added 
extra  insulation  to  his  middle-aged  house,  and  built  and 
installed  interior  shutters  on  the  windows.  "During  the 
winter,  we  keep  the  shutters  on  the  north  side  perma- 
nently closed."  He  grins.  "We  also  keep  on  our  sweaters 
and  go  into  the  kitchen  with  the  coal  stove,  if  we  want  to 
get  warm.  In  the  kitchen,  the  temperature  is  nearly  68 
degrees.  In  the  rest  of  the  house,  it's  about  10  degrees 
cooler.  But  our  bodies  have  adjusted  to  these  tempera- 
tures quite  well." 

While  it  was  his  classroom  interest  in  solar  energy 
that  led  Keil  to  solar  retrofit  his  home,  it  was  his  home- 
grown interest  in  woodworking  and  music  that  led  him 
to  teaching  and  performing  back  on  campus. 

"As  a  child,  I  enjoyed  watching  my  father  in  his 
workshop,  and  I  learned  a  lot  about  carpentry  and  wood- 
working from  him,"  he  reveals.  "I  also  took  piano  lessons 
and  began  to  appreciate  music."  Tom's  two  interests 
came  together  when  he  built  a  harpsichord  from  a  kit. 
The  venture  was  so  successful  that  he  decided  to  teach  a 
harpsichord-making  course  at  WPI's  first  Intersession  in 
1972. 

"That  first  Intersession  was  of  personal  significance 
in  another  area,  too,"  he  confides.  "The  St.  Louis  String 
Quartet  performed,  and  Max  Rabinowitsj  introduced  me 
to  the  world  of  stringed  instruments.  Today  I  play  the 
cello.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  a  student  and  I  played  the  cello, 
and  Prof.  Harit  Majmudar  played  the  tanpura,  in  a  trio  for 
the  EE2001  class  on  its  last  day."  Keil  has  also  played 
with  a  piano  trio  which  includes  Jennifer  Weininger, 
whose  husband  is  Chemistry  Professor  Stephen 
Weininger. 

So  devoted  is  Tom  to  the  cello  that  he  carried  a 
rented  one  down  to  the  Washington  Project  Center  where 
he  was  faculty  advisor  for  a  term  last  year.  In  Worcester, 


he  continues  to  spend  a  lot  of  time  practicing  on  the  in- 
strument. This  summer,  however,  he  won't  be  doing  all 
of  his  practicing  at  home.  "My  wife,  Nora,  has  given  me 
a  great  gift,"  he  says.  "Ten  days  at  Apple  Hill  Music 
Camp  near  Peterborough,  N.H.I  can  spend  over  eight 
hours  a  day  with  chamber  music!" 

Of  late,  Tom  has  branched  out  into  violin-making 
and  is  currently  repairing  an  old  violin  for  a  student.  He 
has  not  yet  learned  how  to  play  the  instrument.  His  13- 
year-old  daughter,  Perry,  however,  is  taking  violin  les- 
sons. His  son,  Seth,  12,  took  bassoon  lessons  but  prefers 
sports. 

Summers  find  the  Keil  family  in  Nantucket.  "We 
have  a  couple  of  small  sailboats  and  take  lots  of  day  trips. 
The  children  have  become  so  proficient  that  they  can  sail 
by  themselves." 

Interested  in  education  at  all  levels,  Tom  was  for- 
merly an  officer  of  the  now  defunct  Friends  of  the 
Worcester  Public  Schools.  He  is  about  to  become  an  in- 
corporator of  the  Higgins  Armory  Museum,  where  Roger 
Perry,  '45,  director  of  public  relations  at  WPI,  serves  as 
chairman.  "The  Higgins  Armory  is  presently  an  impor- 
tant part  of  our  projects  program  at  WPI,"  he  says.  "This 
week,  some  of  our  students  are  concluding  a  project 
there,  presenting  an  exhibition  on  foot  combat. 

Keil,  who  has  been  involved  with  the  WPI  Plan  since 
its  inception,  is  enthusiastic  about  projects  which  he 
calls,  "the  most  successful  part  of  the  plan."  In  1969,  he 
served  on  and  later  became  chairman  of  the  curriculum 
committee.  He  was  responsible  for  creating  and  editing 
the  first  operational  catalog.  He  worked  on  the  general 
implementation  committee,  and  was  on  the  committee 
which  wrote  the  proposal  to  the  National  Science  Foun- 
dation which  was  so  important  in  implementing  the 
plan. 

"When  I  became  physics  department  head  in  1972, 
the  plan  was  95  percent  implemented,"  he  says.  "I  spent 
most  of  my  time  from  1972  to  1977  working  on  various 
aspects  of  the  plan,  particularly  projects."  In  1977,  he  re- 
linquished his  post  as  department  head  and  went  back  to 
teaching  full  time. 

He  is  still  deeply  involved  with  projects.  Over  the 
past  three  years,  Keil,  Jack  Boyd  (mechanical  engineer- 
ing), and  Van  Bluemel  (physics)  have  been  advisors  for  so- 
lar collector  and  solar  pump  design  projects,  which  have 
become  popular  topics.  Keil  enjoys  such  projects  as  much 
as  his  students.  "I  like  to  relate  physics  to  engineering." 

Tom  Keil  not  only  like  what  he  does,  he's  good  at  it. 
In  1978,  he  received  the  Outstanding  Teacher  Award  from 
WPI.  (And  he  still  practices  what  he  teaches!) 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Spring  1981/1 


Planning 

your 

family's 

financial 

future 


by  Gilbert  S.  Osborn 


The  accompanying  interview  with  Conrad  Teitell, 
special  tax  counsel  to  WPI,  addresses  a  topic  which 
we  believe  is — or  should  be — of  compelling  interest 
to  everyone  in  the  WPI  family.  We  hope  you  will  read  it 
carefully  and  consider  its  implications  for  your  future 
and  your  family's  security.  Attorney  Teitell  is  a  recog- 
nized national  authority  on  estate  planning  and  related 
topics. 

Incredible  as  it  may  seem,  nearly  half  of  all  Ameri- 
cans with  assets  to  pass  along  after  they  die  fail  to  make 
wills.  Consequently  their  property  is  distributed  by  state 
law  under  generally  rigid  rules,  and  in  many  cases  it  goes 
to  persons  the  owners  would  not  have  chosen  as  benefi- 
ciaries. Considering  that  executing  a  will  is  neither  diffi- 
cult nor  expensive,  it  is  difficult  to  understand  why  so 
many  persons  are  reluctant  to  do  so,  thereby  jeopardizing 
their  loved  ones  and  others  whom  they  might  otherwise 
benefit,  including  institutions  like  WPI. 

Why  is  it  so  important  to  have  a  will?  As  Attorney 
Teitell  points  out,  a  properly  drawn  will  is  the  only  way 
to  make  sure  that  the  property  you  leave  at  death  will  go 
to  those  whom  you  want  to  get  it.  Your  will  can  guaran- 
tee that  the  distribution  of  your  property  will  be  a  lasting 
memorial  of  your  life  and  the  values  you  hold  in  high  re- 
gard. Your  will  can  nominate  the  persons  you  choose  to 
be  the  guardians  of  your  minor  children  if  they  should  be- 
come orphans;  it  can  name  an  executor  of  your  own 
choice  to  carry  out  the  directions  in  your  will;  it  can  help 
your  attorney  to  minimize  the  taxes  and  other  costs  pay- 
able at  your  death;  it  can  provide  security  for  any  benefi- 
ciaries who  may  not  be  qualified  to  manage  their 
inherited  funds;  and  it  can  allow  you  to  make  a  thought- 
ful bequest  to  WPI  and  to  other  institutions  or  organiza- 
tions whose  work  you  want  to  help  perpetuate. 

If  you're  like  many  WPI  alumni,  you  probably  drew 
up  your  will  some  time  ago.  Chances  are,  it  reflected 
your  wishes  and  directed  that  your  estate  would  pass  to 
your  heirs  according  to  your  specific  desires. 

But,  times  and  circumstances  change — sometimes 
suddenly,  sometimes  almost  imperceptibly.  Changes  in 
your  family  or  perfessional  situation;  revisions  in  the 
Federal  tax  laws;  the  impact  of  relentless  inflation;  even  a 
move  to  another  state — these  and  other  facts  may  corn- 
spire  to  undermine  the  validity  of  the  most  carefully 
thought  out  estate  plan. 


2  /  Spring  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


k_ 


^■i 


An  effective  estate  plan  should  have  two  primary  ob- 
jectives: First,  the  conservation  and  optimum  use  of  your 
assets  to  achieve  maximum  benefits  for  you  and  your 
family  during  your  lifetime;  and,  second,  the  transfer  of 
your  assets  to  your  heirs  and  other  beneficiaries  at  your 
death  with  a  minimum  of  shrinkage  due  to  taxes  and 
other  costs.  Attorney  Teitell  offers  some  especially  help- 
ful advice  in  this  area. 

Like  individuals,  institutions  like  WPI  also  must 
plan  for  the  future.  During  the  past  decade,  WPI  has 
emerged  among  the  front  ranks  of  America's  preeminent 
educational  institutions,  thanks  in  large  measure  to  the 
enlightened  generosity  of  earlier  benefactors — Boynton, 
Salisbury,  Kinnicutt,  Gordon,  and  many  others — who 
provided  the  financial  foundations  upon  which  later  gen- 
erations have  helped  WPI  to  grow  and  to  prosper.  The 
largest  single  gift  in  WPI's  history — a  bequest  of  $5  mil- 
lion in  1964  from  the  estate  of  George  C.  Gordon,  Class 
of  1895 — made  possible  the  construction  of  the  Gordon 
Library  and  also  endowed  the  Leland  P.  Kinnicutt  profes- 
sorship of  Chemistry. 

In  1975,  a  bequest  of  more  than  $1  million  from  the 
estate  of  James  H.  Manning,  '06,  and  Mrs.  Manning  en- 
dowed a  revolving  student  loan  fund,  and  another  be- 
quest from  the  estate  of  Levi  Leonard  Grant,  former  head 
of  the  Mathematics  department  and  WPI's  acting  presi- 
dent from  1911  to  1913,  generates  substantial  annual  in- 
come for  student  financial  aid. 

But  the  good  works  such  generous  bequests  help  to 
make  possible  are  by  no  means  restricted  to  gifts  of  such 
magnitude,  welcome  as  they  are.  Hundreds  of  bequests  of 
more  modest  dimensions  from  alumni,  widows  of 
alumni,  and  other  friends  of  WPI,  have  added  immeasur- 
ably to  the  college's  financial  strength,  and  have  contrib- 
uted significantly  to  the  growth  of  our  endowment 
resources  and  our  physical  plant  facilities.  Currently, 
nearly  200  alumni,  trustees,  and  other  friends  of  WPI 
have  advised  us  that  they  have  included  a  provision  for 
WPI  in  their  estate  planning.  By  so  doing,  they  have  be- 
come active  partners  in  perpetuating  and  strengthening 
WPI's  educational  leadership. 

Attorney  Teitell  also  points  out  that  there  are  several 
attractive  ways  by  which  alumni  and  friends  of  WPI  may 
give  property  to  the  college  during  their  lifetimes  and  still 
enjoy  the  income  from  that  property  together  with  attrac- 
tive tax  advantages,  including  reduced  income  and  estate 
taxes.  As  inflation  constantly  pushes  everyone  into 
higher  income  tax  brackets,  these  inter-vivos  gift  vehi- 
cles have  become  increasingly  popular  among  our  gradu- 
ates and  friends.  During  the  past  four  years,  for  example, 


we  have  written  six  charitable  remainder  interest  agree- 
ments with  generous  annual  income  to  the  donor,  and 
another  27  persons  are  receiving  quarterly  income  pay- 
ments as  participants  in  WPI's  Life  Income  Fund  and 
Pooled  Life  Income  Fund.  Details  about  these  plans,  and 
the  attractive  benefits  they  offer  both  for  the  donor  and 
for  WPI,  are  available  from  Gil  Osborn,  Director  of 
Planned  Giving,  in  the  Office  of  University  Relations. 
As  Teitell  emphasizes,  every  person  with  assets  to 
pass  along  should  plan  his  or  her  estate  carefully,  in  con- 
sultation with  his  or  her  own  advisers.  We  subscribe 
wholeheartedly  to  this  advice,  and  welcome  the  opportu- 
nity to  discuss  with  you  how  you  may  include  WPI  in 
your  estate  planning,  if  you  are  so  inclined.  Of  course, 
your  estate  plan  should  be  tailored  to  fit  your  unique  fi- 
nancial and  personal  objectives. 


Mark  Twain  reportedly  once  told  a  friend,  "of 
course  I'm  interested  in  the  future,  because  I 
plan  to  spend  the  rest  of  my  life  there." 
We  hope  that  you  share  his  feeling,  and  that  these 
thoughts  will  help  you  to  plan  your  future,  and  your  fam- 
ily's, in  a  way  that  provides  the  security  you,  and  they, 
deserve. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Spring  1981/3 


Things  to 
consider      a 


V^«  Mr.  Teitell,  what  do  you 

CONSIDER  THE  ESSENTIALS  OF  AN  EFFEC- 
TIVE ESTATE  PLAN? 


in 

financial 

planning 


An  interview  with 
WPI  tax  and 
estate-planning 
consultant 
Conrad  Teitell 


•  A  satisfactory  plan  is  far 
broader  than  many  people  realize.  It 
involves  three  parts: 

First  is  the  creation  of  wealth. 
Otherwise  you'll  have  nothing  to 
pass  along  to  others. 

Second  is  the  conservation  of 
your  assets  so  that  you  can  enjoy 
them  right  now  and  still  have  some- 
thing left  for  comfortable  retire- 
ment, or  to  provide  for  your  care 
should  you  become  ill  or  disabled. 

Finally  decisions  must  be  made 
on  what  property  you  will  leave  to 
members  of  your  family  and 
others — and  how  to  leave  it. 

All  of  this  has  to  be  done  with 
the  knowledge  that  there  are  three 
enemies  of  any  estate:  taxes,  infla- 
tion, and  the  possibility  of  misman- 
agement. Proper  planning  can  avoid 
the  erosion  of  your  assets  by  those 
three  foes. 

V^»    IS  REDUCTION  OF  TAXES  A  PRIME 
OBJECTIVE? 

That's  important,  but  it 
shouldn't  distort  your  wishes.  Peo- 
ple can  get  so  caught  up  in  tax  bene- 
fits that  they  forget  what  they  want 
to  do. 

I'm  reminded  of  a  play  by  Paddy 
Chayefsky  a  few  years  ago.  The  hero 
was  played  by  Zero  Mostel.  Toward 
the  end  of  the  play,  Mostel,  about  to 
commit  suicide,  turned  to  the  audi- 
ence and  said  something  like  this: 
'Did  you  ever  hear  about  the  man 
who  got  married  in  order  to  take  ad- 
vantage of  the  joint  return,  who  then 
got  divorced  in  order  to  preserve  his 
Liechtenstein  tax  status,  and  who  fi- 
nally, on  the  advice  of  his  account- 
ant, kills  himself?" 

In  planning  an  estate,  you  cer- 
tainly should  consider  taxes — and 
sometimes  they  will  change  the  way 
you  do  something.  But  that's  not 


where  you  start.  First  consider  what 
you  want  to  accomplish,  and  then 
determine  what  modifications  may 
be  necessary  for  tax  reasons. 

V^»    IS  AN  "ESTATE"  WHAT  PEOPLE 
LEAVE  BEHIND  WHEN  THEY  DIE? 

That's  only  one  aspect  of  the 
term.  You  have  an  estate  right  now  if 
you  have  accumulated  any  worldly 
goods  at  all.  And  you  probably  have 
been  making  estate  plans  without 
even  realizing  it. 

For  example,  when  you  buy  a 
life  insurance  policy,  you  make  an 
estate  decision  about  the  sort  of  pro- 
tection you  are  buying  and  who  is 
boing  to  benefit  on  your  death.  Nam- 
ing the  beneficiary  is  important;  so 
is  ownership  of  the  policy.  It's  often 
possible  to  take  a  million  dollars' 
worth  of  insurance  out  of  an  estate 
just  by  having  the  beneficiary  be  the 
owner  when  the  policy  is  purchased, 
or  by  transferring  ownership  if  the 
policy  already  is  in  your  name. 

If  you  buy  a  house  for  yourself 
and  your  spouse  and  put  it  in  joint 
names,  you've  made  an  estate 
decision — and  sometimes  not 
wisely,  for  there  are  pitfalls  in  own- 
ing property  jointly  For  example, 
the  joint  owner  of  property  can't 
convey  an  interest  in  it  to  heirs  or 
beneficiaries;  the  ownership  interest 
passes  to  the  surviving  joint  tenant. 
For  that  reason,  joint  ownership 
might  cancel  out  provisions  in  a 
will. 

Often,  unnecessary  gift  and  es- 
tate taxes  are  incurred  by  putting 
property  in  joint  names.  Get  expert 
advice,  and  weigh  the  pros  and  cons, 
before  you  decide  whether  joint 
ownership  is  advisable  in  your  case. 

Another  thing  many  people 
don't  realize:  If  you  haven't  thought 
about  who  will  eventually  get  your 
property — and  specified  your  wishes 
in  a  will — the  state  where  you  live 
has  a  distribution  plan  all  ready  and 
waiting  for  you,  and  it  may  be  just 
the  opposite  of  what  you'd  have 
wanted. 


Reprinted  with  permission  from  U.S.  News  &  World  Report,  December  8,  1980 
Copyright  1980,  by  U.S.  News  e)  World  Report,  Inc. 


4  /  Spring  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


Q: 


Why? 


l*  Because  for  people  who  die 
intestate — without  leaving  a  will — 
arbitrary  state  laws  determine  to 
whom,  how,  and  when  your  prop- 
erty will  be  distributed.  Your  close 
relatives  will  share  in  your  estate, 
but  frequently  not  in  the  same  pro- 
portions you  might  have  desired. 

VJ*  What  might  happen  in  such  a 

CASE? 

i  Suppose  an  individual  who 
dies  without  a  will  leaves  a  spouse 
and  two  young  children.  In  some 
states,  his  or  her  property  will  be  dis- 
tributed one-third  to  the  surviving 
spouse  and  two-thirds  to  the 
children. 

Because  the  children  are  mi- 
nors, a  guardian  has  to  be  appointed 
by  the  court.  Although  the  spouse 
probably  would  be  the  one  ap- 
pointed, in  most  states  he  or  she  has 
to  post  a  bond  and  pay  bond  pre- 
miums. The  guardian  has  to  bet 
court  permission  to  use  any  part  of 
the  children's  share  of  the  estate  for 
their  support  or  education.  And  an 
accounting  has  to  be  filed  each  year 
with  the  court,  detailing  what  the 
spouse  did  with  the  children's  prop- 
erty. The  spouse  has  to  go  to  court 
to  explain  all  this,  and  time  and 
money  will  be  spent  in  preparing  the 
accounting. 

Take  another  case,  when  a  per- 
son dies  leaving  a  spouse  but  no  chil- 
dren. In  many  states,  if  you  have  no 
will,  your  spouse  shares  your  estate 
with  your  parents,  brothers,  sisters, 
nephews,  and  nieces. 

Thus,  if  you  want  to  control 
where  your  property  goes  on  your 
death,  you  need  a  will  to  carry  out 
your  instructions. 

VJ«  In  the  case  of  a  married  cou- 
ple, SHOULD  BOTH  PARTNERS  HAVE 
WILLS? 

Yes.  Husband  and  wife  should 
each  have  a  will.  Consider  the  mar- 
ried woman  who  has  no  large 


amount  of  property  of  her  own  be- 
cause most  of  the  family  assets  are 
in  her  husband's  name.  Although 
she  hasn't  much  property  now,  she 
will  have  a  substantial  estate  if  her 
husband  is  the  first  to  die  and  leaves 
all  of  his  perperty  to  her. 

If  a  wife  dies  after  her 
husband — and  without  a  will — her 
estate,  including  everything  she  in- 
herited from  him,  will  be  distributed 
by  the  intestacy  laws  of  her  state, 
the  husband's  and  wife's  well- 
thought-out  plans  for  children, 
grandchildren,  and  charitable  organi- 
zations will  be  frustrated. 

Awife  shouldn't  wait  until  she 
becomes  a  widow  to  make  her  own 
will.  She  will  be  under  stress,  and 
that's  not  the  best  time  to  make  im- 
portant financial  plans.  There's  also 
the  possibility  that  she  may  simply 
postpone  making  a  will,  and  never 
get  to  it. 

v£»  Suppose  a  wife  owns  property 

OF  HER  OWN,  AND  WANTS  HER  HUSBAND 
TO  HAVE  ALL  OF  IT  WHEN  SHE  DIES — 

In  that  case,  she  needs  a  will 
to  assure  that  he  will  inherit  all  of  it. 
But  it  is  important  to  leave  the  prop- 
erty in  a  way  which  saves  estate 
taxes.  When  both  husband  and  wife 
have  substantial  assets,  the  com- 
bined estate  taxes  on  the  husband's 
and  wife's  estates  often  can  be  re- 
duced if  the  wife  leaves  half  of  her 
property  to  her  husband  and  the 
other  half  to  children, 
grandchildren,  or  charities.  Or,  she 
might  elect  to  leave  half  of  her  estate 
outright  to  her  husband  and  the  rest 
to  him  in  a  trust.  That  will  save  es- 
tate taxes  on  his  death.  Only  with  a 
will  can  a  wife  accomplish  these 
goals. 

V#*  Does  a  single  man  or  woman 

NEED  A  WILL? 

i\Z  Of  course,  so  that  he  or  she— 
not  the  state's  inflexible  rules— will 
determine  who  gets  his  or  her  prop- 
erty. With  a  will,  a  single  man  or 
woman  can  name  an  executor,  cre- 
ate trusts  for  young  or  inexperienced 


heirs,  benefit  favorite  charities.  State 
intestacy  laws,  incidentally,  do  not 
provide  for  any  charitable  gifts. 

xJS  Whom  should  one  name  as 

EXECUTOR  OF  A  WILL?  CAN  A  MAN  AP- 
POINT HIS  WIFE,  OR  A  WIFE  HER  HUS- 
BAND? 

Yes.  But  the  particular  facts  in 
each  instance  should  rule  that  deci- 
sion. If  the  assets  are  large,  there 
may  be  complicated  tax  returns  to 
file,  valuations  to  be  determined,  in- 
vestment decisions  to  be  made.  For 
these  reasons,  it's  often  advisable  to 
have  a  bank  or  trust  company,  an  ex- 
perienced attorney,  or  other  profes- 
sional act  as  executor  or  trustee— or 
as  coexecutor  or  cotrustee  with  a 
spouse  or  a  close  relative. 

For  example,  my  Uncle  Henry 
may  know  nothing  about  investing, 
but  he  does  know  and  care  about  my 
children.  I  have  confidence  that  he 
will  look  out  for  their  needs.  So  I 
may  want  to  name  Uncle  Henry  to 
act  as  cotrustee  with  the  trust  de- 
partment of  my  local  bank,  and  get 
the  benefit  of  a  linking  of  two  areas 
of  expertise. 

\J*  Have  many  individuals  built 

UP  LARGER  ESTATES  THAN  THEY  REALIZE? 

l«  That's  often  the  case  today  be- 
cause of  inflation  and  the  growth  of 
fringe  benefits  in  business  and  indus- 
try. For  example,  many  people  have 
houses  that  are  worth  perhaps  three 
or  four  times  what  they  paid  for 
them  many  years  ago.  That  inflated 
value  will  show  up  in  their  estates, 
as  will  the  proceeds  from  group  in- 
surance that  many  employers  pro- 
vide for  their  employees.  Under 
these  circumstances,  a  person  can 
find  thaqt  his  or  her  estate  will  be 
subject  to  tax— and  often  a  hefty  tax. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Spring  1981/5 


V^S    YOU  MENTIONED  A  TAX  ON  THE 
PROCEEDS  OF  INSURANCE.  AREN'T  INSUR- 
ANCE BENEFITS  TAX-FREE? 

Insurance  payments  to  a  bene- 
ficiary are  free  from  income  tax,  but 
they  are  subject  to  estate  tax.  Unless 
proper  plans  are  made,  a  big  insur- 
ance policy  can  increase  the  estate 
tax. 

One  way  of  getting  around  this, 
as  I  mentioned  earlier,  is  for  the  fam- 
ily breadwinner  to  make  a  gift  of  his 
life  insurance  to  his  spouse.  Assum- 
ing he  transfers  the  ownership  at 
least  three  years  before  his  death,  the 
insurance  proceeds  won't  be  part  of 
his  estate.  If  a  policy  with  a  large 
cash  value  is  given  away,  there  may 
be  a  gift  tax  on  the  present  value,  but 
you  can  be  certain  that  the  gift  tax 
will  be  lower  than  the  estate  tax  that 
would  otherwise  be  imposed  on  the 
higher  face  value  at  death. 

Let's  say  I  have  a  1 -million- 
dollar  policy,  with  a  present  value  of 
$200,000.  If  I  give  that  to  my  wife  to- 
day, $200,000  is  potentially  subject 
to  gift  tax.  If  I  die  with  that  same  pol- 
icy in  my  estate,  1  million  dollars 
will  be  subject  to  tax. 

V^S  Can  a  person  make  a  gift  of 

THE  GROUP  INSURANCE  POLICY 
PROVIDED  BY  HIS  OR  HER  EMPLOYER? 

l«  Yes.  Almost  all  states  now  au- 
thorize that.  And  since  the  value  of 
group  term  insurance  is  very  low — 
usually  there's  little  or  no  current 
value— no  gift-tax  liability  generally 
is  incurred. 

But  it's  important  to  note  in 
giving  away  any  type  of  life  insur- 
ance that  once  ownership  of  a  policy 
is  transferred  to  another  person,  the 
original  owner  no  longer  has  the 
right  to  change  beneficiaries  or  to 
make  any  other  changes. 


VJ«  Congress  rewrote  the  laws 
governing  estate  and  gift  taxes  a 
few  years  ago — in  the  tax  reform 
Act  of  1976.  Did  those  changes  cut 
down  somewhat  on  the  cost  of 
passing  along  wealth? 

l*  They  increased  the  costs  for 
some  poeple  and  reduced  them  for 
others.  Let's  take  a  look  at  the  law 
before  1976,  and  the  way  things 
stand  now. 

Under  earlier  law,  an  individual 
could  give  away  each  year,  free  of  gift 
tax,  property  worth  $3,000— $6,000 
if  a  spouse  concurred  in  the  gift — to 
as  many  beneficiaries  as  desired.  In 
addition,  every  individual  had  a  sep- 
arate lifetime  gift  allowance  of 
$30,000— or  $60,000  for  a  couple 
giving  jointly.  There  were  separate 
schedules  for  gift  taxes  and  estate 
taxes.  Taxes  on  gifts  were  about  one- 
fourth  lower  than  those  on  property 
passing  through  an  estate.  Moreover, 
gifts  during  one's  lifetime  reduced 
the  size  of  the  estate  and  thus  re- 
duced the  amount  of  estate  tax  to  be 
paid.  Every  estate  had  an  exemption 
of  $60,000  before  any  estate  tax  be- 
came payable. 

V^»    HOW  DID  THE  I976  LAW  CHANGE 
ALL  THIS? 

l*  It  made  no  change  in  the  an- 
nual gifts  that  one  can  make  tax- 
free.  It's  still  possible  to  give  away 
$3,000  a  year— or  $6,000  with  a 
spouse's  concurrence — to  as  many 
beneficiaries  as  you  wish. 

But  the  additional  lifetime  gift 
allowance  of  $30,000  per  person  was 
abolished,  and  so  was  the  $60,000 
exemption  from  estate  tax.  How- 
ever, these  were  replaced  with  a  "un- 
ified" transfer  tax  credit.  More  about 
that  in  a  minute. 

The  former  separate  gift  and 
estate-tax  rates  were  replaced  with  a 
progressive  "unified"  rate  schedule 
applying  to  both  gifts  during  life  and 
at  death.  As  matters  stand  now,  any 
portion  of  the  unified  credit  used 
against  gift  taxes  during  one's  life- 
time reduces  the  credit  available  to 
be  used  eventually  against  the  estate 


tax.  Note,  however,  that  any 
number  of  annual  gifts  of  $3,000 — or 
$6,000  if  a  spouse  agrees — can  be 
made  without  cutting  into  the  tax 
credit. 

An  estate  is  allowed  a  marital 
deduction  for  property  passing  to  a 
spouse  of  up  to  $250,000  or  one-half 
of  the  value  of  the  adjusted  gross 
estate — whichever  is  greater.  Also, 
an  individual  can  give  a  spouse  up  to 
$100,000  free  of  gift  tax.  But  in  that 
case,  one's  eventual  estate-tax  mari- 
tal deduction  may  be  decreased. 

\J«    HOW  HIGH  ARE  THE  RATES  ON 
GIFT  AND  ESTATE  TAXES  NOW? 

As  you  can  see  from  the  ac- 
companying table,  the  unified  rates 
range  from  a  low  of  18  percent  to  a 
high  of  70  percent  on  one's  taxable 
estate.  The  table  is  deceptive,  how- 
ever. Without  going  into  the  techni- 
calities, once  you  exhaust  the 
unified  credit,  the  bottom  bracket  is 
32  percent — and  not  18  percent. 
However,  the  unified  credit  against 
tax  keeps  a  sizable  amount  out  of  the 
hands  of  the  tax  collector. 

For  married  couples  who  plan 
carefully,  the  first  spouse  to  die  can 
leave  an  estate  of  more  than 
$400,000  this  year,  and  as  much  as 
$425,000  in  1981  and  later  years, 
and  not  be  taxed  at  all  by  the  federal 
government. 


Q: 


HOW  DOES  THAT  WORK  OUT? 


Congress  specified  that,  be- 
ginning in  1977,  estates  should  get  a 
credit  against  any  estate  tax  due.  In 

1977,  the  credit  was  $30,000;  in 

1978,  $34,000;  and  in  1979,  $38,000. 
In  1980  it  moved  up  to  $42,500.  In 
1981  and  thereafter  it  will  be 
$47,000. 


6  /  Spring  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


Since  $42,500  is  the  estate  tax 
on  about  $161,000,  the  individual 
who  died  in  1980  would  pass  along 
$161,000  with  no  tax  being  due. 
Married  people  get  an  additional 
break:  a  marital  deduction  of  50  per- 
cent of  the  value  of  the  adjusted 
gross  estate,  with  a  minimum  de- 
duction of  up  to  $250,000. 

So,  for  a  spouse  who  dies  in 
1981  or  thereafter,  when  the  full 
$47,000  unified  credit  applies  and  a 
marital  deduction  has  been  provided 
for,  there  will  be  no  estate  tax  if  the 
estate  doesn't  exceed  $425,000. 
Above  that  amount,  the  first  dollar  is 
subject  to  tax  at  an  effective  rate  of 
32  percent,  and  that  rate  goes  up  pro- 
gressively with  the  size  of  the  estate. 

A  basic  point  to  keep  in  mind  in 
estate  planning  is  the  need  to  look 
beyond  what  happens  to  just  one  es- 
tate. As  I've  noted,  it's  possible  for  a 
husband  or  wife  to  pass  along  to  a 
surviving  spouse  more  than 
$400,000  of  assets  free  of  estate  tax. 
But  without  proper  planning,  the  es- 
tate of  the  second  to  die  can  then  be 
clobbered  by  the  tax  collector. 

V^«  Are  there  ways  to  minimize 

THE  TAX  ON  A  SURVIVING  SPOUSE 's 
ESTATE? 

That  often  can  be  done  by 
making  use  of  a  trust.  Let's  consider 
the  case  of  a  humsband  who  has  a 
$400,000  estate  and  wants  his  wife 
to  have  the  use  of  all  the  family  as- 
sets after  he  dies,  but  also  wants  to 
provide  for  their  children. 

Instead  of  giving  his  wife  the 
maximum  marital  deduction  al- 
lowed his  estate,  his  will  can  specify 
that  she  get  outright  only  the  portion 
of  the  marital  deduction  that  will  re- 
duce his  estate  tax  to  zero,  taking 
into  account  the  unified  transfer  tax 
credit. 

The  rest  of  his  assets  go  into  a 
trust  which  will  pay  income  to  his 
wife  for  her  lifetime,  and  principal  if 
she  needs  it— and  on  her  death  will 
be  divided  among  the  children.  In 
that  way,  the  wife's  estate  also  will 
be  free  of  estate  tax.  Without  the 
trust,  the  wife's  estate  might  have  to 


pay  tens  of  thousands  of  dollars  in 
taxes. 

For  the  larger  estate,  a  good  plan 
often  involves  giving  the  surviving 
wife  an  amount  equal  to  the  maxi- 
mum marital  deduction  outright  or 
in  trust,  and  giving  her  the  balance 
of  the  estate  in  a  trust  which  will 
benefit  her  for  life  but  which  will  es- 
cape estate  taxes  on  her  death. 

These  are  some  examples  of  the 
advantages  of  trusts.  There  are  many 
other  possibilities.  You  might  want  a 
trust  to  protect  a  beneficiary 
against  his  inexperience  in  managing 
property,  or  against  his  financial 
folly.  You  can  appoint  a  trustee  who 
has  wide  discretion  in  deciding  how 
and  under  what  circumstances  the 
income  and  principal  of  the  trust 
should  be  distributed. 

VJ«  Are  there  different  kinds  of 

TRUSTS? 

Yes.  A  trust  that  you  set  up 
during  your  lifetime  is  called  a  "liv- 
ing" or  "intervivos"  trust.  A  trust 
that  is  set  up  under  your  will — and 
that  doesn't  become  effective  until 
after  your  death — is  called  a  "testa- 
mentary" trust. 


V^»  Can  trusts  of  various  kinds 

HELP  REDUCE  ESTATE  TAXES? 

Yes,  in  many  instances.  But 
that  is  not  always  the  prime 
purpose.  A  trust  is  also  used  for  dis- 
posing of  property  and  managing  it, 
and  for  protecting  heirs  and  benefi- 
ciaries. A  lawyer  can  advise  you 
whether  a  trust  makes  sense  in  your 
circumstances,  and,  if  so,  what  type 
of  trust  you  should  create. 

V^«    HOW  IS  THE  AMOUNT  SUBJECT 
TO  ESTATE  TAX  DETERMINED? 

Oversimplified,  total  the 
items  which  go  into  the  gross  estate, 
such  as  securities,  tangible  personal 
property,  real  property,  cash,  mort- 
gages, life  insurance  when  the  pro- 
ceeds are  either  receivable  by  the 
estate  or  the  decendent  owned  the 
policy.  To  this  add  one-half  of  any 
community  property  and  the  value 
of  any  jointly  held  property — which 
may  be  includable  in  the  gross 
estate. 

Then,  subtract  the  decedent's 
debts,  funeral  expenses,  estate- 
administration  expenses,  the  marital 
deduction,  the  orphans'  deduction, 
and  charitable  gifts.  After  all  this, 
you  arrive  at  the  taxable  estate — the 
amount  potentially  subject  to  tax. 
The  unified  credit  reduces  the  tax, 
and  in  some  cases  wipes  it  out 
altogether. 

v^»  Are  there  ways  to  give  prop- 
erty TO  A  COLLEGE,  CHURCH,  OR  OTHER 
CHARITY  AND  STILL  GET  LIFE  INCOME 
FROM  THE  PROPERTY? 

l«  Yes.  It's  an  increasingly  popu- 
lar way  of  helping  charities.  Many 
people  would  like  to  make  signifi- 
cant charitable  gifts,  but  they  just 
can't  afford  to  part  with  the  income 
from  their  assets.  A  person  in  this 
position  can  make  a  gift  while  he  or 
she  is  alive,  retain  the  income  for 
life — as  well  as  for  the  lifetime  of  a 
survivor,  if  that's  desired — and  get 
an  immediate  income-tax  deduction 
as  well  as  an  eventual  saving  on  es- 
tate taxes. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Spring  1981/7 


The  Tax  Bite  on 
Gifts  and 
Estates 


The  federal  government  taxes  the  value  of  property  that  people  give  away  dur- 
ing their  lifetimes,  as  well  as  that  left  to  heirs  at  death. 

The  gift  tax  is  paid  by  the  donor.  The  estate  tax  is  paid  by  the  executor 
from  the  estate's  assets. 

Until  a  few  years  ago,  the  federal  tax  on  gifts  was  a  separate  tax  with 
lower  rates  than  for  estates — an  encouragement  to  gift-giving.  But  a  new  law 
enacted  in  1976  combined  gifts  and  estates  into  a  single  tax  schedule.  Under 
its  provisions,  credits  taken  for  gift  taxes  reduce  the  amount  of  credits  avail- 
able for  use  against  the  estate  tax.  The  unified  credit— $47,000  for  persons 
who  die  after  1980— offsets  the  tentative  tax  up  to  the  32  percent  rate.  The 
highest  rate  is  70  percent,  for  transfers  above  5  million  dollars. 

Before  a  tax  is  levied,  an  estate  gets  a  marital  deduction  for  property  pass- 
ing to  a  spouse  of  up  to  the  greater  of  $250,000  or  one-half  of  the  adjusted  gross 
estate. 

The  following  shows  taxes  on  property  passed  by  gift  or  in  taxable  estates 
of  $10,000  to  1  million  dollars. 

TAXABLE  TRANSFER  TENTATIVE  TAX 

Upto$  10,000  18% 

$   10,000-$  20,000  $     1,800  plus  20%  over  $  10,000 

$  20,000-$  40,000  $     3,800  plus  22%  over  $  20,000 

$  40,000-$  60,000  $     8,200  plus  24%  over  $  40,000 

$  60,000-$  80,000  $  13,000  plus  26%  over  $  60,000 

$  80,000-$  100,000  $   18,200  plus  28%  over  $  80,000 

$100,000-$150,000  $  23,800  plus  30%  over  $100,000 

$150,000-$250,000  $  38,800  plus  32%  over  $150,000 

$250,000-$500,000  $  70,800  plus  34%  over  $250,000 

$500,000-$750,000  $155,800  plus  37%  over  $500,000 

$750,000-$  1  million  $248,300  plus  39%  over  $750,000 

The  tax  on  taxable  estates  from  over  1  million  dollars  to  over  5  million  dollars 
ranges  from  41  percent  to  70  percent. 


8  /  Spring  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


Here's  an  example.  Take  a  man 
who  at  age  70  creates  a  charitable 
trust  with  $100,000  of  securities 
that  cost  him  $30,000  many  years 
ago.  He  tells  the  trustee,  "I'm  put- 
ting $100,000  into  this  trust,  and  ev- 
ery year  you  are  to  pay  me  7  percent 
multiplied  by  the  fair  market  value 
of  the  trust  as  revalued  each  year." 

This  year,  if  the  securities  in  the 
trust  are  worth  $100,000,  the  donor 
gets  $7,000.  Next  year,  if  the  value 
goes  up  to  $1 10,000,  he  gets  7  per- 
cent times  $110,000— or  $7,700.  If 
the  income  in  any  year  isn't  great 
enough  to  make  the  payment,  the 
trustee  dips  into  the  principal  to 
make  the  payment. 

In  this  particular  example,  the 
donor  would  get  an  income-tax  char- 
itable deduction  of  $52,500.  His  de- 
ductionis  not  for  the  full  $100,000 
placed  in  the  trust.  Uncle  Sam  dis- 
counts the  deduction  for  the  actuar- 
ial value  of  the  donor's  retained  life 
enjoyment.  If  he's  in  the  50  percent 
bracket,  the  $52,500  deduction  saves 
him  $26,250  in  income  taxes.  And 
he's  going  to  get  a  yearly  payment 
from  the  trust  for  as  long  as  he  lives. 

The  annual  payment  could  be  5 
or  6  percent,  or  it  could  be  8  or  9  per- 
cent. The  higher  the  annual  pay- 
ment, the  smaller  will  be  the 
income-tax  charitable  deduction. 

V^»  Are  there  additional  advan- 
tages TO  THIS  KIND  OF  GIFT? 

l«  Yes.  The  tax  savings  can  be 
even  more  significant.  Suppose  you 
have  stock  that  cost  you  $30,000, 
and  it's  now  worth  $100,000— but 
it's  only  paying  a  2  percent  return. 
You  want  to  sell.  But  you'd  have  a 
$70,000  capital  gain,  and  the  income 
tax  on  that  would  be,  typically, 
$17,500. 


If  the  property  is  transferred  to  a 
charitable  trust,  however,  it  can  be 
sold  with  no  tax  whatever  on  the 
capital  gain.  Then  the  money  can  be 
reinvested  in  something  with  a 
higher  yield.  Adding  the  $26,250 
income-tax  savings  generated  by  the 
charitable  deduction  to  $17,500 
saved  in  capital  gains  taxes  makes  a 
total  tax  savings  of  $43,750.  You 
have,  in  effect,  a  $56,250 
investment— and  not  a  $100,000 
investment — in  this  arrangement, 
because  you  saved  $43,750  in  taxes. 
Assume  that  you  get  a  7  percent  re- 
turn. That's  $7,000  on  your  original 
$100,000  investment.  But  a  $7,000 
return  on  a  $56,250  investment 
means  a  yield  of  12.4  percent.  And 
these  days,  you  have  to  look  at  the 
real  yield  on  your  investments. 

Many  charitable  trusts  can  be  so 
invested  that  the  payments  received 
each  year  are  not  taxed  at  ordinary 
income-tax  rates,  but  are  either 
taxed  as  capital  gains  or  are  untaxed 
as  a  return  of  principal.  That  can  be 
very  attractive. 

V^«  Are  there  other  provisions  in 
the  1976  Tax  Reform  Act  that  can 
affect  the  taxability  of  an  estate? 

l«  Yes,  there  are  several — with 
varying  degrees  of  complexity.  For 
example,  an  orphans'  deduction  sets 
up  a  formula  for  estate-tax  deduc- 
tions for  bequests  to  orphan  chil- 
dren. It  specifies  a  deduction  of 
$5,000  for  every  year  the  child  is  un- 
der 21 .  Suppose  I  die,  leaving  an  1 1- 
year-old  child,  and  there  is  no  other 
surviving  parent.  Subracting  11  from 
21  and  multiplying  by  $5,000  means 
that  the  child  can  get  $50,000,  free  of 
estate  tax. 

Wealthy  people  should  be  con- 
cerned about  so-called  generation- 
skipping  rules.  Congress  made  it 
more  difficult  for  families  to  hold 
property  in  trusts  for  generation  after 
generation  and  avoid  taxes  as  the 
property  is  handed  down  from  chil- 
dren to  grandchildren  and  so  on.  For 
example,  if  a  trust  provides  income 
to  a  spouse  for  life,  then  to  a  son  or 


daughter  for  life,  with  the  remainder 
going  to  grandchildren,  a  generation- 
skipping  tax  may  be  imposed  at  the 
time  of  the  son  or  daughter's  death. 
The  tax  comes  out  of  the  assets  of 
the  trust.  Within  the  new  rules, 
there's  a  $250,000  exemption  for 
property  passed  to  grandchildren  in 
this  fashion.  There  are  a  number  of 
pitfalls.  Assets  may  become  sugject 
to  tax,  just  by  naming  the  wrong  per- 
son as  trustee. 

There's  also  a  lower  special-use 
valuation  of  property  for  people  who 
own  farms  or  real  property  used  in  a 
closely  held  business. 

All  these  are  points  people 
should  be  aware  of  as  they  plan  their 
estates.  I've  just  mentioned  general 
rules,  and  certainly  not  all  of  them. 
Every  individual  wiith  substantial 
assets  to  pass  along  should  consult 
his  or  her  own  adviser  as  to  how  the 
law  applies  in  each  particular  case. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Spring  1981/9 


The 

coming 

crunch 

in  the 

computer 

business, 


or,  Where  are 
the  people 
who  will  push 
the  buttons? 


by  Russell  Kay 


Not  so  many  years  ago,  if  you  wanted  to  suggest  to 
someone  a  career  that  offered  sure  employment 
almost  anywhere  in  the  country  combined  with 
excellent  job  security  you  mentioned  public-school 
teaching. 

Nowadays  the  teachers  are  out  on  the  streets  looking 
for  work  in  the  aftermath  of  declining  student  popula- 
tions, inflation,  and  draconian  tax-cutting  measures.  You 
don't  suggest  to  anyone  nowadays  that  teaching  is  a  safe 
career. 

What  then? 

Computers.  If  ever  there  was  a  field  crying  for  people,  it  is 
this  one — and  it  encompasses  segments  of  virtually  every 
other  field  that  touches  on,  or  is  touched  by,  technology. 

Computers.  The  new  watchword  for  the  rest  of  this  cen- 
tury. Computers  seem  to  be  everywhere  in  our  life;  they 
pervade  our  technology.  The  growth  of  computer  use  in 
the  last  few  years  has  been  astounding,  and  yet  projec- 
tions for  the  near  future  make  that  recent  growth  seem 
small. 

Computers.  They  bring  a  whole  new  range  of  possibili- 
ties, good  and  bad,  to  whatever  they  touch.  They  are,  in 
many  senses,  magic  machines.* 

Yet  they  are  still  machines.  They  need  to  be  researched 
and  developed.  They  need  to  be  designed.  They  need  to 
be  manufactured.  They  need  to  be  sold.  They  need  to  be 
installed.  They  need  to  have  programs  written  for  them, 
or  they  become  merely  expensive  space-heaters.  They 
need  to  be  maintained.  They  will  break. 

They  need,  most  of  all,  an  incredible  number  of  people  to 
do  all  those  things.  And  therein  lies  our  tale. 


*I  believe  it  was  Arthur  C.  Clarke,  the  science-fiction 
writer,  who  first  proposed  the  dictum  that,  to  those  una- 
ble to  understand  its  workings,  any  sufficiently  advanced 
technology  is  indistinguishable  from  magic. 


10  /  Spring  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


The  marketplace 


Teaching  computer  science 


The  manpower*  *  problem  in  computer-related  in- 
dustries is  enormous,  and  it  provides  a  classic  ex- 
ample of  the  laws  of  supply  and  demand  in 
operation.  Most  of  the  new  people  needed  will  have  to  be 
trained  in  such  areas  as  computer  programming,  informa- 
tion management,  computer  science,  computer  engineer- 
ing, electrical  engineering.  An  extraordinary  demand  for 
these  people  has  arisen  very  rapidly,  and  the  supply  of 
people  who  can  fill  that  is  severely  limited.  Classical  eco- 
nomics says  that  the  price  of  the  people  will  go  up  in  this 
situation,  and  indeed  it  has.  Salaries  in  computer-related 
jobs  are  higher  than  in  most  others,  and  they  keep  rising 
at  a  pace  greater  than  inflation. 

A  look  at  figures  for  starting  salaries  for  college  grad- 
uates (bachelor's  degrees)  is  revealing.  The  averages  run 
from  $12,700  for  liberal  arts  graduates  to  $20,000  for 
computer  science,  to  $22,000  in  electrical  engineering. 
By  comparison  with  other  technical  disciplines,  civil  en- 
gineering averages  $20,000,  mechanical  $22,000,  and 
chemical  $24,000.  (These  figures  are  national  averages  as 
of  December  1980.) 

Competition  in  the  marketplace  is  incredibly  in- 
tense. In  St.  Louis  recently,  the  Association  for  Comput- 
ing Machinery  held  its  annual  conference,  an  event 
which  is  for  many  people  not  much  more  than  a  giant  job 
fair.  There  were  over  300  organizations  interviewing  at- 
tendees for  jobs.  And  it  was  often  enough  the  case  that  an 
individual  would  spend  part  of  his  day  behind  the  desk, 
interviewing  candidates,  and  the  rest  of  the  day  being  in- 
terviewed himself! 

The  attractions  of  the  computer  field  are  quite  some- 
thing. And  yet  there  are  some  very  serious  problems  that 
must  be  tackled  if  the  supply  side  of  the  issue  is  to  be  in- 
creased. 


*  */  use  the  term  'manpower'  in  its  generic,  rather  than 
its  sex-specific  sense.  The  first  computer  programmer  in 
history  was  a  woman,  after  whom  the  Department  of  De- 
fense has  named  its  new  programming  language— ada. 


Most  of  the  people  needed  will  have  to  have  col- 
lege or  graduate  training  in  their  area.  That 
means  that  they  will  need  qualified  college  pro- 
fessors to  teach  them.  And  the  basic  requirement  for 
teaching  in  a  college  is  a  pIid. 

In  1980,  there  were  200  computer  science  pIid's  grad- 
uated in  this  country.  At  the  same  time  there  were  at 
least  1300  jobs  advertised  for  these  individuals,  including 
600  openings  in  colleges  and  universities.  But  the  situa- 
tion is  worse  than  that.  Of  those  200  pIids,  some  50  to  55 
percent  will  go  directly  into  industry.  Another  30  to  35 
percent  are  foreign  nationals  who,  for  visa  or  other  rea- 
sons, will  be  leaving  the  country  and  therefore  cannot  be 
available  for  teaching.  That  leaves  15  percent,  or  about  30 
new  people  for  the  600  positions. 

The  economics  aren't  good,  either,  for  teaching 
about  computers.  At  a  school  like  WPI,  the  starting 
salary  for  a  new  assistant  professor  with  a  pIid  (whether 
in  computer  science  or  any  other  department)  is  cur- 
rently almost  identical  with  the  starting  salaries  of  our 
bachelor' s-degree  graduates.  With  a  brand-new  pIid,  how- 
ever, industrial  offers  this  year  are  in  the  neighborhood  of 
$32,000-$45,000.  Whatever  incentive  to  earn  a  pud  that 
exists,  therefore,  is  likely  to  be  strongly  biased  in  favor  of 
industry  and  against  teaching.  This  has  an  effect  on  the 
entire  field,  however:  it  becomes  harder  than  ever  for  stu- 
dents to  study  computer  science  because  there  aren't 
enough  qualified  faculty  available  to  teach.  It's  compara- 
ble to  an  agricultural  situation  where  the  price  of  corn  is 
so  high  that,  instead  of  reserving  enough  corn  to  seed 
next  year's  crop,  everything  is  being  sold  right  now. 
That's  fine  for  the  short  term,  but  what  do  you  plant, 
what  do  you  harvest,  what  do  you  sell,  and  what  do  you 
eat  next  year? 

And  that  isn't  the  end  of  the  economics,  either.  One 
of  the  traditional  attractions  of  college  teaching  is  the  op- 
portunity for  professors  to  engage  in  professional  research 
in  their  fields — and  indeed  they  must  do  so  if  they  are  to 
remain  teachers  under  the  usual  "publish  or  perish"  stan- 
dards for  promotion  and  tenure  that  exist  at  colleges  and 
universities.  Yet  high  teaching  loads  don't  leave  time  for 
faculty  to  do  research  and  publishing,  so  the  high  demand 
also  works  to  the  professional  teaching  disadvantage  of 
college  faculty. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Spring  1981/11 


Furthermore,  to  engage  in  computer  science  research 
takes  time  and  equipment  that  often  isn't  available  to- 
day. In  the  one-third-century  history  of  computers  as  real 
machines,  they  have  evolved  through  four  distinct  gener- 
ations of  technology:  from  vacuum  tubes  and  relays,  to 
discrete  solid-state  devices,  to  small-scale  integrated  cir- 
cuits, to  the  current  very  large  scale  integration  of  com- 
ponents. No  single  academic  department  could  hope  to 
keep  pace  with  this  rapidly  changing  technology.  Experi- 
mental facilities  in  most  computer  science  departments 
across  the  country  are  therefore  obsolescent  and  inferior 
to  industrial  facilities. 

The  cost  of  the  equipment  tends  to  create  another 
problem,  this  one  organizational  in  nature.  Computer 
science  is  a  laboratory  discipline,  and  yet  at  WPI  and  at 
many  other  institutions,  the  computer  science  depart- 
ment has  virtually  no  control  over  its  primary  laboratory 
equipment.  That  laboratory — in  the  form  of  the  campus 
computer  center — is  an  autonomous  administrative 
structure.  During  1979-80,  40  percent  of  the  timesharing 
use  of  WPFs  dec-io  (since  replaced  by  a  more  powerful 
DEC-20)  was  by  CS  students.  But  the  CS  department  (cur- 
rently located  in  Washburn)  has  one — count  'em,  one — 
terminal  which  is  permanently  hardwired  to  the  dec-20. 
Every  other  terminal  for  the  department  and  its  faculty 
must  be  used  on  a  dial-up  basis,  subject  to  the  availability 
of  an  open  line  to  the  computer,  at  the  slow  speed  of  30 
characters  per  second.  There  is  clearly  no  parallel  with 
any  other  department's  basic  tools. 

A  recent  report  released  by  the  Computer  Science 
Board,  a  forum  for  the  heads  of  the  67  computer-science- 
phD-granting  institutions  (which  do  not  include  WPI)  in 
the  United  States  and  Canada,  indicated  that  for  rather 
normal  research,  an  average  computer  science  depart- 
ment must  plan  to  spend  $25,000  to  $30,000  per 
researcher — which  includes  graduate  students  as  well  as 
faculty  members — in  capital  outlay  over  the  next  five 
years.  For  serious,  state-of-the-art  research,  the  figure  is 
$55,00  to  $75,000  per  researcher.  And  to  all  these  figures 
must  be  added  approximately  another  10  percent  to  20 
percent  per  year  for  maintenance  and  support. 


Under  these  circumstances,  it  is  fair  to  say  that 
anyone  who  does  go  into  teaching  must  really 
want  to  teach.  It  is  also  fair  to  say  that  faculty 
morale  and  faculty  retention  are  serious  issues.  It  be- 
comes harder  and  harder  to  compete  with  the  attractions 
of  industry,  especially  when  industry  sets  up  research  fa- 
cilities that  have  the  freedom  and  atmosphere  of  univer- 
sities combined  with  competitive  salaries  and  up-to-date 


facilities.  Experienced  assistant  professors  can  get  indus- 
trial offers  as  high  as  $45,000. 

And  yet  the  need  for  faculty  has  never  been  greater. 
Nationally,  the  number  of  computer  science  faculty  with 
phDs  has  risen  from  805  in  1975  to  825  in  1980,  while  the 
number  of  undergraduates  in  the  field  has  doubled.  When 
WPI  started  its  computer  science  department  in  1970, 
there  were  24  undergraduate  majors  and  six  faculty  To- 
day there  are  220  undergraduate  majoring  in  the  field  and 
nine  faculty.  The  beginning  computer  course  at  WPI,  CS 
1001,  which  teaches  how  to  program  in  Fortran,  had  700 
students  enrolled  this  year.  That  single  course  represents 
a  full  teaching  load  for  three  to  four  computer  science 
faculty. 

Every  computer  science  faculty  member  teaches 
evening  courses,  mostly  given  off  campus,  in  addition  to 
a  full  load  of  daytime  courses  and  projects.  The  extra 
compensation  for  this  additional  evening  work  doesn't 
begin  to  compare  with  normal  teaching  salaries,  much 
less  what  a  faculty  member  could  expect  to  earn  by 
devoting  that  time  to  research.  That  our  faculty  continue 
to  take  on  this  extra  load  is  more  often  out  of  loyalty  to 
the  continuing  education  students  and  their  needs  rather 
than  a  real  desire  for  more  teaching. 

It  cannot  be  too  surprising,  therefore,  that  finding 
and  holding  teachers  is  a  problem.  A  search  has  been  go- 
ing on  for  over  a  year  to  find  a  computer  science  depart- 
ment head  for  WPI.  What  may  be  somewhat  surprising  is 
that  holding  students  can  also  be  a  problem.  Often  a  stu- 
dent takes  a  job  in  the  summer  or  evenings  working  at 
computer  programming.  His  employer  offers  that  student 
an  immediate  full-time  job,  no  college  degree  needed,  at  a 
$20,000  salary.  That's  very  attractive,  and  it  does  take  its 
toll  of  students.  (That  this  practice  is  unfortunately 
short-sighted,  both  for  the  student  and  for  the  employer, 
is  all  too  true.) 

Prof.  Stephen  Alpert,  acting  head  of  WPI's  computer 
science  department,  summed  up  the  faculty  situation 
this  way:  "It's  Tuesday,  right?  I  bet  I  could  get  on  the 
phone  to  people  in  local  industry  and  sell  this  entire  de- 
partment and  everyone  in  it — lock,  stock,  and  barrel — as 
a  package.  Everyone  in  the  department  would  make  sig- 
nificantly more  money,  no  one  would  have  to  move  be- 
cause our  work  would  still  be  in  the  area  .  .  .  and  I  bet  I 
could  wrap  up  the  negotiations  for  all  of  this  by  the  end  of 
the  week!  That's  how  strong  the  demand  for  good,  expe- 
rienced CS  people  is." 


12  /  Spring  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


The  Electrical  Engineering 
perspective 


Electrical  engineering  is  the  other  major  discipline 
which  is  inevitably  caught  up  in  the  computer 
whirl,  because  computers  are  electronic  machines. 
For  EE,  moreover,  computers  are  a  growing  part  of  their 
field.  Computer  engineering  has  clearly  become  one  of 
the  fundamental  areas  of  electrical  engineering,  and 
every  EE  must  be  comfortable  with  the  use  of  computers. 
A  recent  report  by  the  Institute  of  Electrical  and  Elec- 
tronics Engineers  (ieee)  power  group  recommended  three 
computer  courses  for  all  EEs,  regardless  of  specialty. 

But  it  is  still  only  one  part  of  electrical  engineering. 
Professor  Donald  Eteson  echoes  the  feelings  of  the  WPI 
department  when  he  remarks  that  an  EE  needs  a  broad 
education  within  the  field.  "The  year  I  graduated,  the 
University  of  Pennsylvania  computer  went  on-line,  and 
the  first  real  paper  on  the  transistor  was  published.  If  I 
hadn't  gotten  an  education  that  would  last,  one  that  had 
staying  power,  my  career  would  have  been  over  the  day  I 
graduated!" 

The  EE  department  has  not  had  the  same  difficulties 
as  computer  science  in  recruiting  and  keeping  faculty. 
They  have  not  established  a  special  computer  group  (al- 
though there  are  certain  members  who  are  more  inter- 
ested than  are  others),  because  they  feel  every 
department  member  must  be  able  to  deal  effectively  with 
computers. 

Although  it  has  its  own  courses  in  computer  engi- 
neering, the  EE  department  has  worked  together  with  the 
CS  people  to  develop  a  new  interdisciplinary  course,  "In- 
troduction to  Microprocessors,"  which  was  offered  for 
the  first  time  last  year.  Other  major  involvement  is  pri- 
marily in  projects,  especially  in  the  areas  of  power,  com- 
munications, and  biomedical  engineering. 

The  EE  perspective  on  equipment  needs  is  some- 
what different  from  that  of  CS.  Eteson,  in  looking  to  the 
future,  says  that,  "in  a  few  years,  the  long-awaited  com- 
puter millennium  will  arrive.  It  will  then  be  standard 
practice  in  industry  to  provide  each  engineer  with  the 
desk-top  equivalent  of  a  pdp-ii  minicomputer  for  his  or 
her  sole  use.  Going  a  few  years  beyond  that,  something 
equivalent  in  computing  power  to  our  dec-20  will  be  able 
to  sit  on  that  desk  top." 

There  is  a  reasonably  strong  rationale  for  saying,  in 
effect,  'let's  wait  three  years  and  we  can  get  equipment 
that's  twice  as  powerful  for  the  same  number  of  dollars.' 
The  hidden  cost  of  that  wait,  however,  is  that  you  then 


don't  have  access  to  those  computers  for  three  years,  and 
this  can  have  a  serious  impact  on  a  department  strongly 
rooted  in  current  technology. 

The  EE  department  is  currently  in  what  Eteson  de- 
scribes as  "a  holding  pattern"  regarding  computer  equip- 
ment. "The  future  is  clearly  with  distributed  computing, 
and  we  will  have  to  see  how  well  such  things  as  ethernet 
(a  coaxial  cable  based  local  network  system  developed  by 
Xerox)  will  fit  in  with  WPI's  educational  needs."  The  de- 
partment, after  some  discussion,  has  recently  standard- 
ized all  of  its  microprocessor  teaching  and  development 
around  a  single  chip,  Intel's  8086,  which  uses  16  bits  in 
each  of  its  words. 

Student  access  to  computing  (something  which  WPI 
has  always  boasted  of),  has  become  something  of  a  prob- 
lem, and  promises  to  remain  so,  according  to  Eteson,  un- 
til the  next  major  change  in  campus  computing  power, 
perhaps  four  or  five  years  off  (remember,  WPI's  dec-20 
was  just  installed  last  summer!).  All  over  the  campus, 
however,  microcomputers  are  sprouting  up  like  weeds  in 
a  meadow.  Several  years  ago  some  eighteen  lsi-ii  units 
were  acquired,  and  these  are  being  used  in  such  various 
places  as  civil  engineering,  materials  engineering,  the 
University  of  Massachusetts  Medical  Center,  and  me- 
chanical engineering,  as  well  as  EE  and  CS.  Apple  II 
micros  have  appeared  in  the  mathematical  sciences 
and  materials  engineering  departments  (and  perhaps 
others,  too). 

It  has  been  suggested,  seriously,  that  perhaps  the  in- 
troductory computer  course,  CS  1001,  be  shifted  away 
from  Fortran,  punched  cards,  and  the  campus  computer 
center's  Univac,  and  to  UCSD  Pascal  (a  dialect  of  the 
Pascal  language  developed  at  the  University  of  California 
at  San  Diego)  used  on  a  series  of  small  microcomputers 
(which  would  have  to  be  obtained)  where  students  would 
have  to  schedule  time.  Although  this  would  provide  a 
more  modern  introduction  to  computers  and  computer 
programming,  as  yet  no  serious  study  of  the  cost  of 
this  move,  or  its  implications  for  faculty  time,  has 
been  made. 

Eteson  sums  up  the  equipment  and  curriculum  situ- 
ation this  way:  "If  we  work  very  hard  at  it,  we  can  proba- 
bly manage  to  stay  not  more  than  three  or  four  years 
behind  industry. " 


The  WPIfoumal  /  Spring  1981  /  13 


Continuing 
education: 
Glowing  in  the 
dark 


One  place  to  see  the  impact  of  the  computer  revolution  is 
in  WPI's  continuing  education  programs  of  evening  grad- 
uate courses  and  short  seminars.  Professor  Robert  Hall, 
director  of  the  programs,  notes  that  electrical  engineering 
and  computer  science  courses  account  for  nearly  half  the 
offerings  in  the  evening  graduate  program. 

Growth  in  the  industry  has  created  a  special  require- 
ment for  employee  training.  One  large  local  computer 
maker,  for  example,  has  plans  to  drastically  increase  its 
workforce  in  the  next  five  years  (estimates  being  heard 
range  from  30,000  to  50,000  people  to  be  added!) 

This  kind  of  growth  in  size  means  a  building  boom 
as  well,  and  this  feeds  students  into  WPI's  evening  certif- 
icate program  in  plant  engineering. 

Another  large  manufacturer  of  computers  and 
computer-based  systems  found  itself  unable  to  hire 
enough  qualified  people  locally  and  went  to  national  re- 
cruiting, but  even  this  is  not  successful  nowadays  be- 
cause of  increased  housing  costs  and  the  concomitant 
lowered  mobility  of  people) .  So  this  company  now  is 
back  to  looking  locally  and  retraining  people  to  acquire 
the  skills  needed. 

Hall  notes  that  the  number  of  evening  students  has 
risen  dramatically  in  recent  years.  "In  1973-74,  we  had 
250  students  enrolled  in  the  evening  program.  By 
1979-80,  that  figure  had  tripled  to  nearly  800."  He  at- 
tributes this  to  the  need  for  expanded  knowledge  plus  the 
easier  opportunities  now  available.  WPI  gives  evening 
courses  at  a  number  of  off-campus  locations,  including 
Digital  Equipment  Corporation,  Data  General,  Ray- 
theon, and  Honeywell. 

Hall  also  comments  on  what  some  students  go 
through  to  get  a  degree.  "We  find  that  a  number  of  people 
will  work  in  a  degree  program  for  a  year  or  two,  then  get 
transferred  out  of  the  immediate  area,  then  cycle  back  in 
a  couple  of  years.  One  recent  graduate  took  six  years  and 
three  employers  to  get  his  degree!" 

WPI's  newest  continuing  education  effort  has  been 
aimed  at  providing  a  series  of  short,  two-  or  three-day 
seminars  in  specific  areas.  Hall  observes  that  one  com- 
puter manufacturer  sends  its  employees  to  WPI  seminars 
in  such  numbers  that  it  represents  the  largest  single  pro- 
vider of  students  for  these  programs.  He  notes  further 
that  all  the  area  computer  industries,  taken  as  a  group, 
account  for  between  30  and  40  percent  of  all  seminar  at- 
tendees. To  give  you  an  idea  of  the  numbers  involved,  in 

-78,  its  second  year  of  operation,  the  seminar  pro- 
gram reached  600  people.  In  calendar  1980  over  2,500 
were  enrolled. 


14  /  Spring  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


The  outlook 


In  October  1980,  the  National  Science  Foundation  and 
the  Department  of  Education  published  a  joint  report, 
Science  e)  Engineering  Education  for  the  1 980  's  and 
Beyond,  which  attempts  to  assess  the  adequacy  of  our  ed- 
ucational system  to  meet  the  needs  which  are  projected 
for  the  future.  It  observed  that: 

Computer  professional  fields  represent  the  single  broad  area  in 
which  there  are  clear  shortages  of  personnel  at  all  degree  levels 
at  the  present  time  and  where  those  shortages  are  projected  to 
continue  through  1990.     .     .     .     Trends  for  computer  profes- 
sionals have  been  similar  to  those  for  engineering;  namely,  rap- 
idly rising  undergraduate  enrollments  and  decreasing  phD 
production. 

.     .     .     A  good  deal  of  the  instruction  now  being  offered 
may  be  obsolete  simply  because  it  makes  use  of  obsolete  equip- 
ment. A  similar  situation  is  evident  in  many  computer  profes- 
sion departments.  While  this  situation  may  not  pose  significant 
problems  for  the  large  employers  of  engineers  that  can  afford  on- 
the-job  training  for  newly  hired  personnel,  specialists  argue  that 
it  could  have  appreciable  effects  on  smaller  companies  and  in- 
dustries which  traditionally  have  counted  on  new  graduates  to 
keep  them  abreast  of  the  latest  developments. 

The  faculty  shortage  and  equipment  obsolescence  problem 
[may  mean]  that  the  capacity  of  engineering  schools  and  com- 
puter profession  departments  to  accept  and  provide  an  adequate 
education  to  all  qualified  applicants  may  be  reached  during  the 
present  decade.     .     .     .     It  is  probably  the  case  that  long-term 
solutions  to  the  faculty  shortage,  equipment  obsolescence,  and 
rigidity  problems  must  derive  from  the  establishment  of  close 
working  relationships  between  universities  and  industry. 


WPI,  with  its  project-based  curriculum,  has  a  strong 
current  involvement  with  industry.  What  the  school  is 
now  exploring  is  the  use  of  people  in  industry  to  help  sup- 
plement faculty  and  thereby  relieve  some  of  the  load,  par- 
ticularly in  the  computer-related  areas.  The  recently 
announced  joint  venture  with  Emhart  Corporation,  for 
example,  will  involve  numbers  of  Emhart  personnel  on 
campus  working  with  students  on  the  projects  and  re- 
search programs  undertaken  in  the  areas  of  robotics 
and  industrial  applications  of  current  microprocessor 
technology. 

This  kind  of  cooperation  will  increase,  and  it  will  in- 
volve many  different  types  of  companies,  for  the  simple 
reason  that  there  is  no  other  way  in  which  industry  or  or 
the  academic  establishment  can  hope  to  meet  the  need 
for  trained  computer  professionals. 


Will  these  kinds  of  measures  be  enough  to  solve 
the  severe  shortage  of  trained  professionals? 
Or  will  it  be  a  case  of  too  little,  too  late?  Will 
the  promise  of  the  magic  machines  fade? 


Ask  again  in  five  years. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Spring  1981  /  15 


Tech  Old  Timers 


IT  IS  WITHOUT  QUESTION  One  of 
WPI's  most  enthusiastic  clubs. 
Its  members  meet  once  a  month, 
September  through  May,  and  cur- 
rently draw  about  50  people  to  each 
meeting.  Among  the  reasons  for  the 
group's  success  are  that  it  is  a  fun 
group  or  retirees  of  diverse  talents 
with  a  common  interest  in  WPI  and 
in  surviving  on  a  fixed  income. 
Members  can  drop  by  WPI  on  the 
second  Thursday  of  the  month,  en- 
joy a  cup  of  "coffee  and,"  and  rap 
with  classmates,  former  profs,  and 
trustees — all  of  whom  are  repre- 
sented in  the  TOT  membership.  The 
atmosphere  is  informal,  the  business 
meetings  short,  and  the  programs  in- 
teresting and  stimulating.  There  is  a 
group  of  25  or  30  members  who  feel 
so  keen  about  the  organization  that 
they  rarely  miss  a  meeting. 

The  group  was  started  in  De- 
cember 1958  with  only  23  members, 
and  its  objective  hs  remained  un- 
changed over  the  years:  "To  culti- 
vate tge  comradeship  of  older 
members  of  the  Worcester  Polytech- 
nic Institute  Alumniresiding  in  or 
near  Worcester  for  sociability  and  ex- 
change of  ideas  upon  such  topics  of 
community  or  general  interest  as 
may  suggest  themselves,  and  espe- 
cially those  relating  to  the  Insti- 
tute." The  club's  simple,  one-page 
bylaws  have  been  revised  in  only  mi- 
nor details  over  the  past  22  years  in 
only  minor  details  to  reflect  chang- 
ing circumstances.  And  after  20 
years,  inflation  caught  up  with  TOT 
and  they  had  to  raise  their  dues  from 
$  1 .  00  per  season  to  $2 .  00 . 

Many  members  have  served  the 
group  as  officers,  usually  for  a  two- 
year  term.  An  example  of  extreme 
dedication  is  the  case  of  Harrison 
Brown,  '  12,  who  was  secretary  of  the 
club  for  its  first  16  years!  WPI  fur- 
nishes a  meeting  place,  and  the 
mailings  go  out  through  the  Alumni 
Office.  Otherwise,  the  club  is  virtu- 
ally self-sustaining.  They  get  good 
speakers  from  WPI  faculty  and  staff 
and  tap  the  talents  of  their  own 
members  for  travelogues  and  hob- 


bies of  special  interest.  There  is  no 
limit  to  the  supply  of  good  speakers, 
on  a  wide  range  of  subjects,  that  they 
can  get  through  members'  contacts. 

There  is  always  a  lot  of  good- 
natured  kidding  during  the  meetings 
and  everyone  joins  in  the  fun.  When 
Walter  Dennen,  '18,  gets  up  to  make 
an  announcement,  you  can  always 
count  on  a  few  humorous  remarks 
about  the  current  political  scene, 
while  Larry  Larson,  '20,  provides  a 
running  commentary  on  the  pro- 
ceedings. Any  attempt  at  formality 


on  the  part  of  an  over-zealous  mem- 
ber is  summarily  dismissed.  In  spite 
of  all  this,  however,  there  are  occa- 
sional technical  and  serious  pro- 
grams that  can  inspire  some  very 
searching  questions. 

Over  the  years  there  have  been 
ups  and  downs,  but  membership  has 
continued  to  grow.  Alumni  are  retir- 
ing earlier,  living  longer,  and  liking  it 
better.  Only  ten  years  ago  TOT  had 
about  700  members,  while  today 
there  are  over  150  active  members. 
Another  150  alumni  within  easy 
driving  distance  of  WPI  are  eligible 
to  join.  Qualifications:  sense  of  hu- 
mor, age  65  or  retired. 


Tech  Old  Timers  at  their  September 
1980  meeting: 

Front  tow:  Pete  Marsaw  '30,  Dir 
Deranian  '29,  Ed  Brown  (faculty), 
Stan  Knight  '32,  vice-president 
Howie  Whittum  '34,  president 
Wally  Dahlstrom  '36,  secretary- 
treasurer  Bob  Fowler  '36,  George 
Bartlett  '38,  George  Garrison  sim 
'53,  and  Cy  Hardy '26. 

2nd  row:  Chet  Doe  '28,  Erwin 
Mattson  '23,  Larry  Backlin  '28,  Ted 
Schoonmaker  '26,  William  Har- 
rington '23,  Karl  Penney  '28,  Leight 
Wellman  (faculty),  Bert  Anderson 
'34,  Carl  Backstrom  '30,  Al  Glenn 
'33,  and  Wendell  Davis  '22. 

3rd  tow:  Phil  MacArdle  '27,  Ted 
Englund  '28,  William  Kosciak  '36, 


Russ  Hemenway  '35,  Roger  Tarbox 
'28,  Art  Parsons  '26,  Chet  Inman 
'14,  Bob  Chapman  '21,  Harold 
Baines  '26,  Forrest  Nelson  '28,  and 
Art  Miller '24. 

4th  tow:  Ray  Bjork  '26,  John 
Hendrickson  '33,  Harold  Hendrick- 
son  '36,  Lester  Sarty  '28,  Russ  Field 
'22,  Wayne  Keith  '22,  Phil  White 
'22,  Edwin  Tucker  '32,  and  Frank 
Forsberg  '18. 

Back  tow:  True  Sanderson  '31, 
Freeman  Hawley  '23,  Ed  Sawtell  '38, 
Al  Chase  '36,  John  Whenman  (fac- 
ulty), Bill  Locke  (faculty),  Don 
MacMillan  '35,  Irving  Desper  '21, 
George  Parsons  '22,  Wally  Gove 
'31,  Walter  Dennen  '18,  and  Art 
Klebart  '33. 


16  /  Spring  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


1919 


Austin  Welch  writes:  "I've  never  seen  any- 
thing written  about  a  part  (small)  that  WPI 
played  in  Robert  Goddard's,  '08,  rocket  work. 
What  I  recall  is  this.  The  present  Skull  build- 
ing was  used  in  1916-1917  only  by  Tech 
News,  and  we  met  there,  I  think,  at  4  p.m.  ev- 
ery Monday  or  Tuesday.  Then  we  were  asked 
to  relinquish  the  building  and  meet  in  Boyn- 
ton  instead.  The  next  thing  we  knew,  an  assis- 
tant professor  of  physics  named  Haig  was 
conducting  rocket  experiments  for  a  Clark 
University  man  named  Goddard. 

I  lived  on  Dean  St and  the  noise 

from  the  Skull  building  came  straight  through 
to  my  house.  About  once  in  two  weeks,  espe- 
cially in  winter,  there  would  be  quite  a  loud 
explosion  during  the  night  about  3a.m. 

I  just  thought  that  Prof.  Haig  and  WPI 
should  have  some  sort  of  recognition  concern- 
ing the  experiments." 


1922 


In  1965,  after  41  years  of  teaching  in  the  Civil 
Engineering  Department  at  WPI,  Prof.  Carl 
Meyer  retired  to  Winter  Park,  Fla.  Ayear  later 
he  came  out  of  retirement  to  enter  a  second 
professional  career,  which  was  as  a  section  cel- 
list in  the  eight-man  cello  section  of  the  all- 
professional  Florida  Symphony  Orchestra.  He 
says,  "Music,  as  my  Tech  friends  know,  had 
been  my  life-time  avocation.  My  second  ca- 
reer, that  of  a  professional  musician,  ended  af- 
ter ten  years  of  service  with  the  Florida 
Symphony." 

After  his  retirement,  he  continued  his 
technical  writing  by  producing  the  4th  edition 
of  his  textbook,  Route  Surveying  &>  Design  in 
1969.  The  first  edition  of  the  book  was 
published  in  1949,  and  it  quickly  became  the 
most  widely  used  book  in  its  field. 

In  preparation  for  the  future,  he  took  on  a 
co-author,  Prof.  David  Gibson  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  Florida.  In  1980  their  joint  efforts  cul- 
minated in  a  5th  edition,  published  by  Harper 
&Row. 

Prof.  Meyer  takes  great  pride  in  the  stay- 
ing power  of  his  book.  It  continues  to  be  the 
leader  in  its  field,  and  already  has  been  used  by 
more  than  275  different  universities,  colleges, 
and  technical  institutes. 


He  writes:  "I  like  to  remind  friends  that 
when  they  drive  over  a  nicely-banked  and  spi- 
raled  curve  on  any  Interstate  Highway,  the 
chances  are  better  than  50-50  that  the  curve 
was  computed  and  built  with  the  aid  of  the 
theory  and  tables  in  Route  Surveying  et> 
Design." 


1925 


O.  Arnold  Hansen  was  recently  named  "Engi- 
neer of  the  Year"  by  the  Erie-Niagara  Chapter 
of  the  New  York  State  Society  of  Professional 
Engineers.  "Ole"  started  his  career  with  the 
White  Motor  Co.  of  Cleveland,  Ohio  follow- 
ing his  graduation  from  WPI.  On  his  last  day  of 
work  at  White,  he  drew  a  sketch  of  the  auto- 
matic clutch  for  a  fellow  worker  who  was  baf- 
fled by  an  engine  clutch  problem.  That  sketch 
was  the  basis  for  the  first  several  patents  is- 
sued in  his  name. 

After  leaving  White,  he  joined  Linde  in 
Buffalo,  N.Y,  and  worked  on  the  problems  as- 
sociated with  Eveready  Prestone  as  it  was  then 
manufactured.  Following  the  solution  to  those 
problems,  he  turned  his  attention  to  liquid  ox- 
ygen distribution.  This  was  new  in  the  U.S. 
and  was  carried  out  with  German  equipment. 
In  this  field,  Hansen  instigated  the  develop- 
ment of  several  new  processes  and  equipment 
on  which  over  25  patents  were  issued  in  his 
name.  Articles  concerning  this  work  were 
published  by  "Mechanical  Engineering"  and 
'Chemical  Engineering." 

His  innovative  approach  to  problems  led 
him  into  a  wide  variety  of  investigations  rang- 
ing from  rupture  characteristics  of  high  pres- 
sure gas  cylinders  to  the  revitalization  of  spent 
oil  wells,  from  building  plans  for  laboratory 
expansion,  to  representation  of  the  company 
in  college  relationships. 

He  retired  early,  but  worked  for  a  time  at 
Firewell  to  complete  a  project  which  provided 
liquid  nitrogen  cooling  for  infra-red  detectors 
on  military  aircraft,  and  at  Bell  Aerosystems 
on  the  development  of  positive  propulsion  fuel 
tanks  for  the  Minuteman  Missile. 

Civic-minded,  Hansen  has  served  as  a 
past  president  of  the  local  chapter  of  the  Soci- 
ety of  Automotive  Engineers,  and  of  the  gov- 
erning board  of  his  church.  He  was  the 
architect  and  supervised  the  building  of  a  Girl 
Scout  lodge,  and  taught  several  engineering 
courses  at  Erie  Community  College. 


1927 


Percival  Lowell's  son-in-law  has  joined  him  in 
managing  the  Pert  Lowell  Company  which 
manufactures  mast  hoops  and  sail  hanks, 
among  other  things.  Lowell  is  located  in  New- 
bury, Mass. 


1928 


William  Lester  is  president  of  William  Lester 
Corp.,  Livingston,  N.J. 

Although  retired  since  1969,  Donald  Reed 
leads  an  active  life  in  Millbury,  Mass.  He  does 
a  considerable  amount  of  church  work,  espe- 
cially along  managerial  and  financial  lines. 
Occasionally  he  also  helps  out  with  the  nur- 
sery school. 


1929 


Arthur  Knight  writes  from  Vermont  that  the 
National  Geographic  special  report  entitled 

"Energy,"  and  the  Exxon  magazine,  OilWays, 
should  be  required  reading  for  prospective  en- 
gineers as  well  as  the  general  public— anyone 
interested  in  the  energy  scene.  He  and  Helen 
("not  boob  tube  addicts")  try  to  keep  up  with 
what's  going  on  by  reading  a  host  of  publica- 
tions, including  Antiques  Magazine,  Book  Di- 
gest, and  Smithsonian  magazine.  The  Knights 
have  maintained  a  sense  of  humor.  They  for- 
warded a  clip  from  Forbes  which  lists  "aging" 
standards.  One  of  the  standards  allegedly  is: 

"You  sink  your  teeth  into  a  steak,  and  they 
stay  there!"  Knight  is  a  trustee  emeritus  of 
WPI. 


1931 

REUNION 

June  4,5,6,7 


The  50th  reunion  committee  has  been  hard  at 
work  since  last  fall.  Members  are  Ralph 
Hodgkinson,  Frannie  Townsend,  Ed  Bayon,  Al 
Demont,  Wally  Gove,  Frank  Andrews,  Ed 
Odium,  Fred  Farrar,  Bob  Taylor,  Ted  Coe,  Red 
Underhill,  and  Bob  Barrett,  chairman  of  the 
class  gift  committee.  The  latest  meeting  was 
held  in  the  form  of  a  telethon  from  the  Alumni 
Office  on  Sunday,  March  15th. 

Frank  Andrews,  who  retired  from  Water- 
town  Arsenal  in  1967  with  27  years  of  govern- 
ment service,  still  works  as  a  self-employed 
civil  engineer.  He  says  he's  a  bachelor  and  a 
golfer,  "but  may  settle  down  one  of  these 
days." 

Francis  Burgoyne  is  retired.  Formerly,  he 
was  clerk  of  the  works  for  the  ymca,  Green- 
dale  branch,  Worcester. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Spring  1981/17 


Nothing  negative  about  this 
feedback! 


Santa  Claus  arrived  a  week  early  at  the  home  of 
HaroldS.  Black,  '21,  last  December.  "On  Decem- 
ber 17th;  to  be  exact,"  he  explains.  "That  was  the 
day  that  I  was  officially  notified  that  I  had  been  elected  to 
the  National  Inventors  Hall  of  Fame.  What  a  Christmas 
present!  The  best  honor  yet!" 

He  chuckles.  "It  just  goes  to  show,  that  if  you  live 
long  enough,  a  lost  of  things  can  come  your  way."  83- 
year-old  Harold  Black,  the  originator  of  the  negative 
feedback  theory,  has  won  countless  awards  from  the  sci- 
entific community.  His  large  library  abounds  with  them. 
But  the  latest  is  by  far,  the  sweetest. 

Since  its  inception  in  1973,  the  National  Inventors 
Hall  of  Fame  has  selected  38  inventors  to  its  ranks,  in- 
cluding two  eminent  WPI  alumni,  Robert  Goddard,  '08, 
and  Dr.  Black.  Among  the  first  members  were  Thomas 
Edison,  Alexander  Graham  Bell,  and  Eli  Whitney.  Two 
others,  Charles  Kettering,  who  invented  the  first  electri- 
cal ignition  system  for  the  automobile,  and  Carl  Djerassi, 
who  formulated  the  birth  control  pill,  were  previously 
tapped  by  WPI  to  receive  honorary  degrees.  Dr.  Black  also 
received  an  honorary  doctor  of  engineering  degree  at  WPI 
in  1955. 

The  National  Inventors  Hall  of  Fame  is  dedicated  to 
the  individuals  who  conceived  the  great  technological  ad- 
vances which  are  fostered  by  the  patent  system.  The  pur- 
pose of  the  Hall  is  to  honor  these  inventors  and  bring 
public  recognition  to  them  and  to  their  contributions  to 
the  nation's  welfare. 

Inventors  are  selected  for  the  Hall  of  Fame  by  a  selec- 
tion committee  composed  of  representatives  from  na- 
tional scientific  and  technical  organizations.  The 
committee  considers  whether  the  invention  of  the  nomi- 
nee is  covered  by  a  U.S.  patent,  the  contributions  of  the 
invention  to  the  nation's  welfare,  and  the  extent  to 
which  it  promotes  the  progress  of  science  and  useful  arts. 

C.  Marshall  Dann,  '35,  a  current  WPI  trustee  and 
former  head  of  the  U.S.  Patent  and  Trademark  Office 
(which  helped  establish  the  Inventors  Hall  of  Fame), 
comments  on  the  magnitude  of  the  latest  honor  be- 
stowed on  his  fellow  alumnus. 

"Election  to  the  National  Inventors  Hall  of  Fame  is 
one  of  the  highest  tributes  that  an  inventor  can  receive," 
he  says.  "Dr.  Black  is  to  be  congratulated.  He  now  joins 
the  ranks  of  Edison,  the  Wright  brothers,  and  Marconi. 
His  selection  into  such  a  prestigious  fraternity  reflects 
great  credit  on  WPI." 


In  his  former  post  as  Commissioner  of  Patents, 
Marshall  Dann  took  part  in  the  1977  Hall  of  Fame  induc- 
tion ceremonies  for  Dr.  Edwin  Land  of  Polaroid  Land 
camera  fame.  "I  presented  him  with  his  498th,  499th, 
and  500th  patents,"  he  recalls.  "Also,  in  1979, 1  was  host 
to  the  Goddard  party,  when  another  WPI  alumnus,  Rob- 
ert Goddard,  was  posthumously  inducted  into  the  Na- 
tional Inventors  Hall  of  Fame." 

On  February  8th  Dr.  Harold  Black  was  in  Arlington, 
Va.  to  participate  in  this  year's  induction  ceremonies.  "It 
was  a  wonderful  evening,"  he  says  with  enthusiasm. 
'Even  though  I  barely  had  time  to  taste  my  dinner.  First, 
Bell  Labs  (his  former  employer  for  42  years)  sent  a  limou- 
sine around  to  take  us  to  the  ceremony.  Once  we  arrived, 
Channel  13  interviewed  me  for  an  hour  and  a  half  for  an 
upcoming  TV  series  called  "Creativity."  A  lot  of  other  re- 
porters and  photographers  were  on  hand,  too,  and  I  guess 
they  were  doing  their  job.  Some  friends  of  ours  told  us 
later  that  they  had  seen  us  on  TV  way  out  in  Kansas." 

A  model  of  Dr.  Black's  negative  feedback  amplifier, 
which  revolutionized  electronic  communications,  was 
on  display  at  the  Hall  of  Fame  during  the  ceremonies. 
Black  developed  the  theory  of  negative  feedback  for  solv- 
ing distortion  problems  back  in  1927  while  he  was  cross- 
ing the  Hudson  River  on  the  Lackawanna  ferry  on  his 
way  to  work  at  Bell.  After  several  years  of  wrestling  with 
the  problem,  he  suddenly  realized  a  solution.  By  feeding 
part  of  the  amplifier's  output  back  into  the  device  along 
with  the  normal  input,  but  in  reverse  phase,  and  then 
keeping  the  device  from  oscillating,  he  would  have  ex- 
actly what  he  wanted:  a  means  of  canceling  out  the  dis- 
tortion which  was  introduced  by  the  amplifier. 

He  opened  his  morning  newspaper,  and  on  a  blank 
page  of  the  New  York  Times  he  sketched  a  simple  dia- 
gram of  a  negative  feedback  amplifier  plus  the  equations 
for  the  amplification  with  feedback. 

It  took  ten  years  for  Black  to  receive  his  "Wave 
Translation  System"  patent,  primarily  because  it  was 
such  a  revolutionary  idea  that  the  Patent  Office  didn't  be- 
lieve that  it  would  work.  His  invention  required  a  patent 
application  of  42  pages  of  text,  9  pages  of  126  claims,  and 
33  pages  depicting  75  figures  or  drawings.  The  reason  for 
its  extraordinary  length  was  that  the  invention  was  in  a 
new  field,  whose  principles  were  not  understood  at  the 
time,  although  today  they  are  well  known  and  com- 
monly used. 

Initially  important  in  transcontinental  and  trans- 
Atlantic  telecommunications,  negative  feedback  has  also 
been  widely  applied  to  industrial,  military  and  consumer 
electronics,  weaponry,  analog  computers,  and  such  de- 
vices as  pacemakers.  It  has  had  a  marked  impact  on  ra- 


18/  Spring  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


dio,  television,  public  address  systems,  sound  recording, 
chemical  control  systems,  spacecraft  guidance  systems, 
and  electrical  power  supply  circuits. 

Even  today,  Black's  theory,  later  refined  by  him- 
self and  others  at  Bell  Labs,  continues  to  find  new 
applications.  "Negative  feedback  amplifiers  are  still 
essential,"  he  comments.  "I  have  seen  hundreds  of  thou- 
sands of  uses.  There  are  almost  an  endless  number  of  pos- 
sibilities." 

Dr.  Black  was  with  Bell  Labs  from  1921  until  his  re- 
tirement in  1963.  Later,  he  became  principal  research  sci- 
entist at  General  Precision  Corporation.  Since  1966,  he 
has  been  a  communications  consultant,  also  primarily 
concerned  with  negative  feedback  systems  for  the  blind 
and  deaf. 

Throughout  his  long,  distinguished  career,  Dr.  Black 
has  received  62  U.S.  patents  and  271  foreign  patents.  He 
holds  eleven  fellowships  and  19  memberships  in  profes- 
sional societies.  He  is  listed  in  a  number  of  notable  publi- 
cations such  as  Who 's  Who  in  Science,  Who 's  Who  in 
America,  and  Who 's  Who  in  Engineering,  as  well  as  in 
Who's  Who  in  the  World  and  Who's  Who  in  Aviation.  An 
author,  he  has  written  42  articles. 

Among  his  numerous  awards  are:  The  1934  Ameri- 
can Institute  of  Electrical  Engineers  National  Best  Paper 
Prize  in  Theory  and  Research;  the  1940  Modern  Pioneer 


Award  on  the  Frontier  of  American  Industry  by  the 
National  Association  of  Manufacturers;  the  Franklin 
Institute  John  Price  Wetherill  Medal;  the  U.S.  War  De- 
partment Certificate  of  Appreciation  in  1946;  the  Re- 
search Corporation  Award  in  1952;  the  aiee  Lamme  Gold 
Medal  in  1957;  and  the  Audio  Engineering  Society's  John 
H.  Potts  Memorial  Award. 

Dr.  Black  acknowledges  that  he  has  been  fortunate 
to  have  been  the  recipient  of  so  many  awards.  "Each  has 
meant  a  lot  to  me,"  he  confides.  "But  being  named  to  the 
National  Inventors  Hall  of  Fame  means  the  most." 

The  U.S.  patent  system,  which  cites  the  foremost 
inventors  for  their  contributions  to  science  and  society 
through  its  Hall  of  Fame,  once  received  an  apt  tribute 
from  President  Abraham  Lincoln,  also  an  inventor.  He 
said:  "The  patent  system  added  the  fuel  of  interest  to  the 
fire  of  genius." 

At  83,  Dr.  Harold  Stephen  Black  has  received  the 
highest  honor  that  the  patent  system  can  bestow — 
induction  into  the  National  Inventors  Hall  of  Fame.  And 
his  personal  "fire  of  genius"  is  still  very  much  aglow.  The 
native  of  Leominster,  Mass.  describes  his  great  gift  more 
simply.  "Call  it  Yankee  ingenuity,"  he  says. 

His  latest  interest  in  to  be  the  first  to  find  an  ideal  so- 
lution to  the  continuing  quest  for  3-D  television. 


Ever  since  Ben  Chadwick  sold  his  hard- 
ware business  in  1969,  he  and  his  wife  have 
been  on  the  go.  For  several  years  they  enjoyed 
freighter  travel  and  visited  ports  in  Africa,  the 
Orient,  Australia,  New  Zealand,  the  eastern 
Arctic,  Newfoundland  and  Labrador.  During 
their  last  freighter  trip,  they  went  200  miles  by 
river  into  the  interior  of  Venezuela. 

Now  past  the  age  limit  (65)  for  freighter 
travel,  they  have  purchased  an  Airstream 
trailer.  In  February,  they  were  slated  to  go  on  a 
five-week  caravan  to  the  Baja  Peninsula.  The 
Chadwicks  have  also  been  on  a  number  of 
alumni  trips. 

In  1965,  Paul  Fittz  retired  from  Sears 
Roebuck  after  28  years  with  the  company.  The 
last  few  years,  he  was  plant  engineer  at  the 
Sears  mail  order  plant  in  Philadelphia.  After 
retirement,  he  returned  to  Massachusetts 
(North  New  Salem).  Subsequently,  he  became 
vice  president  of  the  Orange  Savings  Bank  and 
president  of  the  Kiwanis,  as  well  as  chairman 
of  the  New  Salem  Planning  Board,  when  zon- 
ing was  adopted.  In  1968,  he  retired  as  a  cap- 
tain from  the  usnr.  With  his  wife,  Dorothy,  he 
taught  round  dancing  from  1972  to  1978.  The 
Fittzes  have  two  daughters  and  six  grandchil- 
dren. Three  years  ago,  Paul  suffered  a  major 
stroke. 

Still  associated  with  the  Athol  (Mass.) 
Historical  Society,  M.  Dexter  Gleason  also 
conducts  tours  through  the  Athol  Public 
Works  and  L.  S.  Starrett  Co. 

Otie  Mace  recently  sold  his  electrical  con- 
tracting business  and  is  now  a  consulting  engi- 
neer. He  writes,  "I  am  looking  forward  to 
having  more  time  off." 


Formerly  with  W.  M.  Steele  Co.,  Inc. 
Worcester,  George  Munson  is  now  retired  and 
living  in  Daytona  Beach,  Fla. 

John  Tuthill  of  Orient,  N.Y.  says  that 
since  his  retirement  from  du  Pont,  he  has 
'played  at  commercial  fishing." 


1933 


The  Jim  Rafters,  who  were  married  in  July, 
now  have  two  houses,  one  of  which  they  in- 
tend to  update  and  sell.  Jim  reports  that  he 
plays  golf  frequently  and  occasionally  wins  a 
drink  or  two  from  his  playing  companions. 


1936 


Although  officially  retired,  J.  Edward  Guild  did 

a  consulting  job  last  winter  for  Reynolds 
Metals  Co.  in  Richmond,  Va.  The  Guilds  keep 
busy  with  church  assignments  and  genealogi- 
cal research. 

As  he  approaches  his  45th  reunion,  John 
Wyman  waxes  poetic  from  Maine.  He  writes: 
'There  was  a  Tech  grad.  named  John,  who  en- 
joyed the  noise  of  the  throng.  When  it  came  to 
time  to  retire,  he  said,  'I  don't  tire.'  So  around, 
he's  still  kicking  the  gong."  John,  who  says 
limerick  writing  is  a  hobby,  hopes  to  attend 
his  45th  with  Dee. 


1937 


William  Brown  says  that  he  retired  from  Rock- 
well International  last  July  and  is  enjoying 
himself. 

Caleb  (Bud)  Hammond,  chairman  of  the 
board  of  Hammond  incorporated,  Maplewood, 
N.J.,  retired  recently  after  41  years.  At  the 
board  of  directors  meeting  at  which  his  retire- 
ment was  announced,  a  testimonial  was  pre- 
sented to  him  by  his  brother,  Stuart  L. 
Hammond,  president  of  the  firm.  The  resolu- 
tion cited  Hammond  for  his  "unfailing  sense 
of  perception  and  his  most  capable  leadership 
as  chairman  and  president."  In  appreciation  of 
his  many  years  of  service,  he  was  named  chair- 
man emeritus.  Currently,  Hammond  is  active 
as  a  WPI  trustee,  chairman  of  the  Maplewood 
Bank  &  Trust  Co.,  and  trustee  of  the  Medical 
Center  at  Orange,  N.J.  Also,  he  holds  the  post 
of  director  of  Summit  Bancorporation. 

Richard  Lyman,  vice  president  of  New 
England  Electric  System,  Wesboro,  Mass.,  re- 
tired March  31st.  He  had  been  with  the  com- 
pany for  43  years  and  nine  months.  Dick  was 
instrumental  in  setting  up  the  new  matching 
gift  program  at  his  firm. 

A.  Hamilton  Powell  has  returned  to  Lees- 
burg,  Fla.,  after  his  overseas  mission  of  design- 
ing and  installing  electrical  systems  for 
mission  buildings  in  Kenya  and  Italy. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Spring  1981/19 


1938 


Paul  Bergstrom  retired  last  November.  Pres- 
ently, he  is  keeping  busy  with  volunteer  work 
and  home  projects.  He  plans  to  travel  this 
summer. 

Bernard  Lovelace,  formerly  manager  of 
engineering  at  Raytheon  in  Bedford,  Mass.,  is 
now  retired. 

A.  George  Mallis  is  semi-retired,  but  re- 
mains active  as  a  consulting  engineer.  Pres- 
ently, he  is  working  on  a  new  revision  to 
"Comprehensive  Catalogue  &  Encyclopedia 
of  U.S.  Morgan  and  Peace  Dollars",  the  due 
date  being  1982. 

Recently,  Henry  Ritz  was  re-elected  presi- 
dent of  the  Plumbing  and  Heating  Wholesalers 
of  New  England  for  198 1 .  He  is  president  of 
the  R  &  R  Plumbing  Supply  Corporation, 
Worcester.  He  has  a  degree  in  business  and  en- 
gineering from  Northeastern  University  and 
took  a  management  course  at  the  Harvard 
School  of  Business  Administration.  Active  in 
fraternal  and  civic  groups,  he  was  past  vice 
president  of  B'nai  B'rith  Lodge  and  the  Zionist 
Organization  of  America. 

Warren  Schafer,  formerly  a  production  su- 
pervisor and  chemist  for  Diamond  National 
Corp.,  retired  on  Dec.  1,  1980. 

In  January,  Robert  Taft,  senior  vice  presi- 
dent of  Industrial  Risk  Insurers,  retired  follow- 
ing 42  years  of  service.  With  the  exception  of 
four-year's  service  as  a  Navy  pilot  during 
World  War  n,  he  spent  his  entire  career  at  IRI. 
In  the  1950's,  he  was  field  manager  of  the  At- 
lanta office;  in  the  1960's,  manager  of  the  east- 
em  regional  office;  and  in  the  1970's,  a 
member  of  IRI's  national  staff. 

He  was  instrumental  in  overseeing  the 
formation  and  growth  of  the  Canadian  Indus- 
trial Risk  Insurers  and  played  a  major  role  in 
the  consolidation  of  the  Oil  Insurance  Associa- 
tion and  the  Factory  Insurance  Association 
into  IRI  in  1975. 

A  former  president  of  the  WPI  Alumni  As- 
sociation, Taft  also  received  the  Herbert  F. 
Taylor  Award.  Most  recently,  he  was  named 
head  of  a  campaign  to  develop  a  graduate  pro- 
gram in  fire  protection  engineering  at  WPI's 
Center  for  Fire  Safety  Studies. 

Industrial  Risk  Insurers,  an  association  of 
45  leading  insurance  companies,  underwrites 
some  47,000  industrial  and  commercial  prop- 
erties in  over  60  countries.  Insurance  in  force 
exceeds  $575  billion. 


1939 


Walter  Abel  has  been  elected  president  of 
Computer  Aided  Manufacturing,  Interna- 
tional, Inc.,  a  non-profit  membership  body 
formed  in  1972  to  advance  manufacturing  pro- 
ductivity through  computerization.  He  will 
also  be  a  member  of  the  CAM-I  board  of  direc- 


tors. Abel  serves  as  vice  president  of  research 
and  development  for  Emhart  Corp.  He  joined 
Emhart's  USM  subsidiary  in  1939,  was  re- 
sponsible for  establishing  the  unit's  research 
departent  and,  later,  for  the  creation  of  the 
Central  Research  Division.  He  is  a  member  of 
the  Industry  Advisory  Board  at  MIT's  Labora- 
tory for  Manufacturing  and  Productivity.  A 
past  president  of  the  Industrial  Research  Insti- 
tute, he  later  chaired  the  committee  that 
published  the  IRI's  Definition  of  Research  and 
Development.  CAM-I,  which  he  now  serves  as 
president,  is  a  worldwide  body  of  some  130 
members  supported  by  more  than  85  indus- 
trial companies  and  45  educational  organiza- 
tions and  governmental  groups  in  the  U.S., 
Australia,  Europe,  and  Japan.  The  organiza- 
tion's objective  is  to  develop  and  test  advanced 
prototype  systems  based  on  computer-aided 
design  and  computer-aided  manufacture. 

Albert  Lavan  has  retired  from  the  research 
and  development  department  at  Antex  Fibers, 
Inc. 

Last  year,  the  Carl  Lewins  visited  Jack 
Boyd  at  his  hillside  home  on  Lake  Winnipe- 
saukee  in  Gilford,  N.H.Bob  O'Malley  has  re- 
tired. Formerly,  he  was  an  administrator  at 
Cowell  Hospital,  Davis,  Calif. 


1940 


Raymond  Forkey,  former  president  of  Coppus 
Engineering,  Worcester,  formally  retired  in 
January.  For  the  past  year  he  has  served  as 
employee-  consultant  to  insure  a  smooth  tran- 
sition of  Coppus  to  its  new  owner,  the  Spenax 
Corp.  of  Shelbyville,  Ind.  Coppus  manufac- 
tures industrial  turbines,  blowers,  and  gas  and 
oil  burners.  When  Forkey  joined  the  firm  28 
years  ago,  sales  were  less  than  $2  million.  Last 
year  sales  were  over  $20  million.  Earlier, 
Forkey  worked  in  the  sales  department  at  Nor- 
ton Company  before  starting  at  Coppus  in 
1952.  He  has  served  as  a  corporator  of  the 
Worcester  Five  Cents  Savings  Bank  (now  Con- 
sumers Bank)  and  the  Worcester  Science  Cen- 
ter, as  director  of  Riley  Stoker,  and  as  a  trustee 
of  WPI,  Worcester  Academy  and  Hahnemann 
Hospital.  He  is  a  past  president  of  the  Worces- 
ter Area  Chamber  of  Commerce  and  recipient 
of  WPI's  Robert  H.  Goddard  Award. 

After  practicing  engineering  in  Europe 
and  the  Middle  East  for  several  years,  Rolfe 
Johnson  is  opening  an  office  in  Jamaica,  Vt. 
The  firm  will  offer  a  complete  service  of  engi- 
neering and  surveying  and  will  deal  with  a 
wide  range  of  projects.  Johnson  has  an  ms  from 
Armour  Tech  and  holds  professional  licenses 
in  Massachusetts,  Pennsylvania,  Wisconsin, 
Indiana,  Illinois,  Minnesota  and  Vermont. 

Most  recently,  he  was  a  resident  engineer 
on  construction  projects  in  Scotland,  the 
Netherlands,  and  Israel.  In  Vermont,  he  will  be 
concerned  with  waste  treatment,  municipal 
engineering  and  solar  energy,  to  name  a  few 
projects. 


1941 

REUNION 

June  5,6,7 


1942 


James  Houlihan  was  recently  appointed  vice 
president  of  preliminary  design,  research  and 
development  for  the  game  division  at  the 
Milton  Bradley  Company,  Springfield,  Mass. 
In  1952  he  began  as  a  chief  chemist  at  the 
company.  Later  he  was  manager  of  game  de- 
velopment, director  of  research  and  develop- 
ment, and,  most  recently,  vice  president  of  the 
firm's  research  and  development  department. 
He  has  been  responsible  for  many  new  product 
introductions  contributing  to  a  major  part  of 
the  company's  growth.  During  World  War  n, 
he  was  a  weather  forecaster  in  the  U.S.  Navy. 
He  is  active  with  the  U.S.  Power  Squadron, 
where  he  teaches  weather  forecasting. 

Arthur  Wilson  holds  the  post  of  senior 
staff  mechanical  engineer  at  Motorola,  Inc., 
Scottsdale,  Arizona. 


1943 


William  Tunnicliffe  holds  the  position  of  mar- 
keting manager  at  Bobst  Graphic,  Inc.,  Bohe- 
mia, N.Y. 

Dr.  Richard  Whitcomb,  who  retired  last 
year  following  a  long,  illustrious  career  as  an 
aerodynamicist  at  nasa's  Langley  Research 
Center,  was  quoted  in  "They're  Redesigning 
the  Airplane,"  which  appeared  in  the  January 
issue  of  the  National  Geographic.  His  discov- 
eries include  the  "coke  bottle"  fuselage  for 
practical  supersonic  flight;  the  supercritical 
wing  for  low  drag  at  high  subsonic  speeds;  and 
winglets,  which  save  about  5  percent  of  fuel 
costs  by  reducing  drag. 

Among  his  many  professional  awards  are 
the  Collier  Trophy  awarded  to  him  in  1955  for 
the  Area  Rule,  a  concept  revolutionizing  su- 
personic flight;  the  National  Medal  of  Science 
presented  to  him  by  President  Nixon  in  1973; 
and  the  Wright  Brothers  Memorial  Trophy, 
given  to  him  for  significant  public  service  to 
aviation.  (His  basic  model  demonstrating  the 
coke  bottle  fuselage,  Area  Rule,  is  on  display 
at  the  Smithsonian  Institution.) 

Whitcomb's  many  accomplishments 
have  not  gone  unnoticed  by  his  Alma  Mater. 
In  1956,  he  received  an  honorary  doctor  of  en- 
gineering degree  from  WPI.  In  1975,  he  was 
presented  with  the  Goddard  Award  for  profes- 
sional achievement. 


20  /  Spring  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


In  retirement,  Whitcomb  is  not  twiddling 
his  thumbs.  He  is  teaching  himself  solid  state 
physics,  and  he  has  converted  the  extra  bed- 
room in  his  apartment  into  a  workshop-lab. 
His  project?  It's  a  secret,  but  it  keeps  him 
working  late  into  the  night.  He  hints,  how- 
ever, that  it  is  energy  related.  Dick  Whitcomb 
has  a  long,  unbroken  string  of  technical  tri- 
umphs. Few  doubt  that  his  latest  project  will 
also  be  a  winner. 


1944 


Recently,  Irving  James  Donahue,  Jr.  was  re- 
elected president  of  The  Memorial  Hospital 
Board  of  Trustees  in  Worcester. 

Arthur  Pingalore  served  as  an  instructor 
for  the  Tri-Community  Chamber  of  Com- 
merce "Changing  Management  Roles"  pro- 
gram held  in  Southbridge,  Mass.  in  January. 
He  has  been  director  of  training  at  Cincinnati 
Milacron-Heald  Corp.;  a  trustee  of  the  Worces- 
ter vocational  high  schools;  a  trustee  of 
Fairlawn  Hospital;  a  board  member  of  the 
ymca;  and  an  adjunct  instructor  at  Anna  Maria 
College. 


1945 


Robert  Buck  has  retired  from  the  faa  after  30 
years  of  service.  He  lives  in  Pittsfield,  Mass. 


1946 


Walter  Bank,  A  WPI  trustee,  has  been  named 
director  of  marketing  for  DCS  Corporation,  an 
Arlington,  Va.  engineering  firm  specializing  in 
electro-optics,  airborne  sensor/weapon  sys- 
tems, and  energy  conservation  r&d.  Previ- 
ously, he  was  marketing  manager  for  Systems 
Consultants,  Inc.  He  is  a  director  of  the  Na- 
tional Energy  Resources  Organization. 

Irwin  Benkert  is  with  the  Furnace  Me- 
chanical Division  of  M.  W.  Kellogg,  Houston. 

Robert  Farwell  is  now  vice  president  of 
market  development  for  GTE  Comm.  Prod- 
ucts in  Stamford,  Conn. 

Thomas  McCaw  has  assumed  the  posi- 
tion of  president  and  chief  operating  officer  at 
Fairfield  Manufacturing  Co.,  Lafayette,  Ind. 
He  has  been  with  Fairfield  for  33  years  and 
has  served  as  vice  president  for  marketing 
and  sales  since  1972.  The  holder  of  32  patents 
on  gearing,  worldwide,  McCaw  studied  ad- 
vanced engineering  at  mit.  He  is  on  the  boards 
of  Presbyterian  Housing,  Inc.,  Lafayette  Home 
Hospital,  the  Lafayette  Symphony,  the  bsa, 
and  the  Tippecanoe  County  Historical 
Association. 


Douglas  Miller  is  program  manager  for 
the  U.S.  Department  of  Energy,  Brookhaven 
area  office,  Upton,  NY. 

George  Morin,  who  owns  Bergeron  Ma- 
chine Co.  of  Keene,  N.H.,  also  serves  as  presi- 
dent of  Green  Mountain  Metals  in  Windsor, 
Vt. 

William  Wells  is  now  retired  horn  Chry- 
sler Corporation  after  32  years  of  service  and  is 
an  instructor  of  engineering  technology  at 
Western  Kentucky  University  in  Bowling 
Green. 


1947 


Carrol  Burtner  is  director  of  the  Office  of  Me- 
chanical Engineering  Safety  Standards,  usma, 
for  the  U.S.  Department  of  Labor  in  Washing- 
ton, D.C. 


1948 


Howard  Dember  serves  as  manager  of  Allied 
Electric  Supply,  Waterbury,  Conn. 

Lawrence  Minnick  is  an  associate  at  Pick- 
ard,  Lowe,  &  Garrick  in  Irvine,  Calif. 

Clark  Poland  has  established  a  new  busi- 
ness entitled  Scan  Web  of  North  America,  Inc. 
Temporarily  his  office  is  located  in  his  home 
in  New  Canaan,  Conn.  Clark  is  national  chair- 
man of  the  Corporate  Contacts  Program  of  the 
WPI  Alumni  Association. 

Leonard  Rood  holds  the  position  of  tech- 
nical director  at  Dysart  Chemical  Co.,  Co- 
lumbus, Ohio.  He  is  also  a  real  estate  broker 
and  president  of  Rood  Enterprises. 


1949 


Norton  Co.  has  appointed  Robert  Rowse  as  di- 
visional vice  president  and  general  manager 
for  proppants  in  the  materials  division.  He 
will  continue  as  divisional  vice  president  for 
research  and  new  business  development.  With 
Norton  since  1949,  he  has  held  various  posi- 
tions in  abrasives  research,  manufacturing, 
and  marketing.  He  attended  the  Advanced 
Management  Program  at  Harvard  Business 
School  and  the  School  of  Industrial  Manage- 
ment at  WPI. 


1950 


John  Hawley  is  manager  of  nuclear  engineer- 
ing at  Walworth  Company  in  Linden,  N.J.  He 
is  a  professional  engineer  in  New  Jersey. 

Lawson  Hill  has  sold  his  mail  order  shoe 
business  (Lawson  Hill  Leather  and  Shoe  Co.) 
and  moved  to  Jackson,  N.H.  Presently,  he  is  a 
consultant.  Also,  he  has  launched  a  mail  order 
business  for  the  British  Isles  Collection. 

Francis  Norton  serves  as  construction  su- 
perintendent at  Monsanto  in  Nitro,  West  Vir- 
ginia. He  and  Eleanor  have  one  child  and 
reside  in  St.  Albans. 

Presently,  Richard  Pieper  serves  as  finan- 
cial manager  for  Ft.  Apache  Timber  Co., 
Whiteriver,  Arizona.  He  has  an  mba  horn 
Pepperdine  University  in  Los  Angeles. 

Les  Reynolds  continues  as  manager  of 
planning  and  business  development  at  Ameri- 
can Cyanamid  Company,  Organic  Chemicals 
Division,  Wayne,  N.J. 


1951 


Recently,  G.  Albert  Anderson  was  elected  a 
trustee  of  Henry  Heywood  Memorial  Hospi- 
tal, Gardner,  Mass.  He  is  vice  president  of 
Collier-Keyworth  Company. 

R.  Ross  Chapin's  daughter,  Carol,  is  a  stu- 
dent at  WPI.  She  hopes  to  major  in  mechanical 
engineering. 

Capt.  Charles  Darrell,  usn,  holds  the  post 
of  director  of  fleet  logistic  support  with  the 
Naval  Sea  Systems  Command  in  Washington, 
D.C. 

John  Marley  serves  as  a  technical  consult- 
ant and  assistant  to  the  general  manager  at 
Motorola  Semiconductors  Japan,  Ltd.,  Tokyo. 
He  is  working  on  microcomputer  systems  for 
automotive  engine  controls  in  Japan. 

Paul  Radasch  writes:  "Running  a  small 
engineering  company  is  quite  a  challenge."  He 
and  his  partners  have  just  taken  on  two 
younger  men  to  work  into  the  operation  of 
Wind  River  Engineers,  Riverton,  Wy. 

Dick  Van  Den  Berge  is  employed  as  a  sen- 
ior analytical  engineer  at  Hamilton  Standard, 
Windsor  Locks,  Conn. 


1952 


Stanley  Berman  has  been  elected  a  member  of 
The  Memorial  Hospital  Board  of  Trustees, 
Worcester.  He  is  a  vice  president  of  manufac- 
turing at  Norton  Co.  and  trustee  and  treasurer 
of  the  executive  committee  of  Worcester 
Academy. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Spring  1981  /  21 


Richard  Gates  continues  as  an  insurance 
agent  in  Brattleboro,  Vt. 

Roland  St.  Louis  writes  that  his  sixth 
child,  a  son,  is  an  applicant  for  admission  at 
WPI  and  will  graduate  from  high  school  this 
June.  A  daughter  will  receive  her  ba  from  Har- 
vard and  a  son  a  law  degree  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Chicago  in  June,  also. 


1953 


Martin  Cohen  holds  the  post  of  director  of  op- 
erations services  at  TV  International  of  Phila- 
delphia. He  has  an  mba  from  Wharton. 

Recently,  Dick  Davis,  a  WPI  trustee,  was 
named  executive  vice  president  at  Truelove  & 
MacLean,  Inc.,  Waterbury,  Conn. 

Currently,  Emil  Larson  is  employed  as  a 
facilities  engineer  at  Krupp  Company  of 
Boston. 


1955 


Gerald  Backlund  is  plant  manager  for  Ameri- 
can Cyanamid,  Kalamazoo,  Michigan. 

The  Dataline  Corp.,  a  major  supplier  of 
data  processing  systems  to  the  building  supply 
industry,  recently  appointed  Hugh  Bell  as 
chairman  of  the  board.  Bell,  the  founder  and 
majority  stockholder  in  the  corporation,  will 
continue  as  chief  executive  officer.  He  started 
the  company  in  1971  following  his  association 
with  Scientific  Data  Systems,  Bell  Associates, 
and  the  Yondata  Corp. 

Robert  Neunherz  serves  as  facilities  man- 
ager of  Wright  Line  and  lives  in  Westminster, 
Mass. 

Ed  Schoppe,  Jr.,  keeps  busy  managing  an 
informal  natural  foods  co-op  and  working  in 
product  development  at  the  Foxboro  Co. 


1956 

REUNION 

June  5,6,7 


Robert  Kleid  has  been  named  manager  of  the 
mailing  systems  division  product  evaluation 
laboratory  for  Pitney  Bowes  Business  Systems. 
In  1963  he  joined  the  firm  as  an  engineer. 
Since  1975,  he  has  served  as  a  senior  engineer. 
He  holds  an  msme  from  WPI,  and  belongs  to 
the  asme,  and  the  American  Society  for  Qual- 
ity Control.  He  has  been  awarded  four  patents. 

Irwin  Smith  ID,  president  of  Surpass 
Chemical  Co.  of  Albany,  N.Y.,  has  been 
elected  to  a  second  term  as  regional  vice  presi- 
dent for  the  American  Association  of  Textile 
Chemists  and  Colorists.  A  past  chairman  of 
the  association's  Hudson-Mohawk  section, 
Smith  has  also  served  six  terms  as  a  national 
councilor.  From  1956  to  1958,  he  was  with  the 
U.S.  Army.  He  has  been  active  in  several  Al- 
bany civic  organizations,  aatcc  is  the  world's 
largest  technical  and  scientific  society  devoted 
to  textile  chemistry,  with  more  than  8,000 
members  in  the  U.S.  and  50  other  countries. 

Charles  Sullivan  is  currently  engineering 
project  manager  for  Air  Force  mature  engines 
at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft,  Government 
Products  Division,  in  Connecticut.  Formerly, 
he  was  located  in  Tequesta,  Florida. 


1957 


Lawrence  Alston  holds  the  post  of  senior  prin- 
cipal engineer  at  Polaroid  Corp.,  Cambridge, 
Mass. 

Dick  Barlow  is  now  chief  executive  offi- 
cer at  Bentley  Harris  Mfg.  Co.  in  Lionville,  Pa. 
He  and  Afra,  who  reside  in  Newtown  Square, 

have  three  children Albert  Langill  is 

president  of  C  A  D'Ora,  Inc.,  Waterford,  Ohio. 

Still  with  Monsanto,  Bill  Rogler  is  pres- 
ently product  manager  of  the  Plastic  Bottle  Di- 
vision in  St.  Louis. 


Anthony  DiGiovanni  has  been  named  as- 
sistant vice  president  of  distribution  and  engi- 
neering at  Boston  Gas.  He  is  responsible  for 
the  installation  and  maintenance  of  the  com- 
pany's underground  facilities  and  piping  as 
well  as  the  administration  of  the  engineering 
department.  Boston  Gas  serves  nearly  500,000 
customers  in  74  cities  and  towns  through 
5,600  miles  of  gas  distribution  mains. 

DiGiovanni  joined  the  former  Mystic  Val- 
ley Gas  Company  as  a  staff  engineer  in  1958 
and  was  named  general  superintendent  of 
Mystic  Valley  distribution  in  1972.  He  became 
superintendent  of  distribution-north  for 
Boston-Gas  when  it  merged  with  Mystic  Val- 
ley in  1974,  and  manager  of  distribution  in 
1977. 

He  belongs  to  the  New  England  Gas  Asso- 
ciation and  the  American  Gas  Association's 
distribution,  construction  and  maintenance 
committee,  and  lives  with  his  wife,  Joanne, 
and  four  children  in  Reading,  Mass. 

Dr.  Sherman  Poultney  serves  as  a  senior 
staff  scientist  at  Perkin-Elmer  Corp., 
Norwalk,  Conn. 

Joaquim  Ribeiro  has  been  re-elected  trea- 
surer of  The  Memorial  Hospital  Board  of 
Trustees,  Worcester. 

Douglas  Todd  is  the  new  manager  of 
STAG  (a  combined  steam  and  gas  turbine 
unit  I  business  development  and  environmen- 
tal planning  at  GE  in  Schenectady,  N.Y.  He 
will  be  responsible  for  worldwide  market  de- 
velopment of  the  company's  combined  cycle 
power  generation  equipment  along  with  prod- 
uct planning  and  communications  programs. 
He  will  be  concerned  with  international  oil 
and  gas  areas,  as  well  as  the  introduction  of 
combined  cycles  domestically,  utilizing  syn- 
thetic fuels  supplied  by  integrated  coal  gasifi- 
cation systems.  Other  responsibilities  include 
legislative  and  regulatory  activities  in  the  en- 
ergy and  environmental  field.  With  GE  since 
1966,  Todd  started  in  the  Large  Steam  Turbine- 
Generator  Department.  Prior  to  his  new  ap- 
pointment, he  was  manager  of  STAG  market 
development  in  the  Gas  Turbine  Marketing 
Department.  Currently,  he  is  affiliated  with 
GE's  Gas  Turbine  Operational  Planning  and 
Advanced  Concepts  Operation.  He  and  his 
wife,  Marcia,  have  two  children. 


1958 


Roger  Anderson  has  a  daughter  in  college  and  a 
daughter  and  son  in  high  school.  Home  is  in 
Weatogue,  Conn. 

Everett  Angell  serves  as  a  project  manager 
at  Foster  Wheeler  Energy  Corp.,  Livingston, 
N.J. 


1959 


David  Daubney  is  a  project  engineer  at  Hol- 
lingsworth  &  Vose  Co.,  East  Walpole,  Mass. 

Morgan  Ely  serves  as  a  purchasing  agent 
at  Bechtel  Power  Corp.,  Berwick,  Pa.  He  re- 
ceived his  mba  and  msce  from  Utah  State  Uni- 
versity. 

Robert  Hayden  has  been  appointed  engi- 
neering manager  at  the  Henry  G.  Thompson 
Company  in  Branford,  Conn.  He  holds  an 
msme  from  Yale,  and  joined  Thompson  in  1979 
as  project  engineer.  Previously,  he  was  with 
Grumman  Aircraft,  Perkin-Elmer,  Scan- 
Optics,  and  other  high  technology  firms.  He 


22  /  Spring  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


belongs  to  the  Society  of  Manufacturing  Engi- 
neers, Tau  Beta  Pi,  and  Pi  Tau  Sigma.  The 
Henry  G.  Thompson  Company,  a  subsidiary  of 
Vermont  American  Corporation,  has  manufac- 
tured Milford  cutting  tools  for  over  104  years. 

Leo  Price  writes:  "All  goes  well  in  the 
construction  of  the  two  air  fields  here  in  Israel. 
Will  be  back  in  the  U.S.  in  18  months".  Price 
is  chief  of  the  Geotechnic  Section  for  the  U.S. 
Army  Corps  of  Engineers. 

Richard  Soucy  holds  the  post  of  program 
manager  at  IBM  Corp.  in  Tampa,  Fla. 


I96l 


I960 


William  Cannon  is  employed  as  fiscal  officer 
at  Pave,  Inc.,  Waterbury  Center,  Vt.  He  has  an 
mba  from  Babson  and  lives  in  Stowe. 

For  three  years,  Donaldson  Dow  has  been 
a  (temporary)  contract  engineer  in  the  stress 
analyst  field.  He  enjoys  the  job  variation  and 
meeting  new  people  in  such  areas  as 
California  and  Rhode  Island.  Presently,  he 
lives  in  Danbury,  Conn.,  although  he  has  a  Te- 
questa,  Fla.  mailing  address. 

Arthur  LoVetere,  president  and  chief  oper- 
ating officer  of  MacDermid,  Inc.,  has  been 
elected  as  a  director  of  Colonial  Bank  in  Wa- 
terbury, Conn.  He  is  also  chairman  of  the 
Greater  Waterbury  Chamber  of  Commerce, 
president  of  the  Metal  Finishing  Suppliers'  As- 
sociation, associate  chairman  of  the  Laymen's 
National  Bible  Committee,  Inc.,  and  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Young  President's  Organization.  He 
holds  an  mba  from  Tuck  School  at  Dartmouth 
College. 

Ron  Pokraka  holds  the  position  of  eastern 
sales  manager  for  Industrial  Dynamics.  I  le  is 
located  in  Falmouth,  Mass. 

Thomas  Sokolowski  is  with  the 
Technical  Evaluation  Unit,  usaf. 

Peter  Zilco  wrote  "Apply  Demand  Con- 
trols for  Energy  Conservation,"  which  ap- 
peared in  a  recent  issue  of  Specifying  Engineer. 
He  is  general  manager  of  Eagle  Signal  Indus- 
trial Systems,  Davenport,  Iowa,  a  developer 
and  supplier  of  programmable  industrial  con- 
trol systems  with  many  applications  in  the 
field  of  power  demand  control.  Also,  he  has 
served  as  system  products  sales  manager  and 
as  industrial  systems  manager  since  joining 
the  firm  in  1977.  Earlier,  he  was  product  mar- 
keting manager  for  programmable  controls 
with  Allen-Bradley,  marketing  engineer  with 
Hewlett-Packard,  and  an  aerospace  engineer 
with  various  other  firms.  He  has  an  msee  from 
Northeastern  University,  Boston. 


Alfred  Dunklee  joined  the  [ct  Propulsion  Lab 
(jpl)  as  a  permanent  employee  in  the  space 
physics  section  last  October.  He  has  been  a 
contractor  for  jpl  for  five  years,  and  has  been 
involved  with  the  Viking  project,  the  Galileo 
project,  and  the  seasat  project.  The  Viking 
project  put  spacecraft  on  and  around  Mars,  and 
Dunklee  was  involved  in  Viking  mission  oper- 
ations software.  Galileo  is  a  future  craft  de- 
signed to  circle  Jupiter.  With  seasat,  an 
oceanographic  satellite,  Dunklee  is  concerned 
with  software  for  analysis  of  high  energy  as- 
trophysical  observatory  data. 

Arthur  Kroll  is  with  Gilbarco,  Inc., 

Greensboro,  N.C Richard  Leven- 

dusky  serves  as  systems  engineer  at  Naval 
Weapons  Handling  Center,  Colts  Neck,  N.J. 

Thomas  Maloney  is  resident  manager  and 
assistant  vice  president  at  E.F.  Hutton  &  Co., 
Burlington,  Mass. 

Paul  Nordborg  serves  as  a  data  processing 
consultant  for  Manufacturing  Business  Sys- 
tems, Worcester. 

Svend  Pelch,  continuing  with  Bristol 
Myers,  is  presently  with  the  Unitech  Division 
in  Pasadena,  Calif. 

Louis  Rossi  has  been  appointed  as  re- 
search associate  in  the  Photomaterials  Divi- 
sion at  the  Kodak  Research  Laboratories  in 
Rochester,  N.Y. 

Robert  Ruberti  has  been  promoted  to  head 
the  Command  Intelligence  Section  at  the 
Rome  Air  Development  Center,  Griffiss  afb, 
New  York,  radc  is  an  Air  Force  laboratory  that 
specializes  in  command,  control,  communica- 
tions and  intelligence  research  and  develop- 
ment. Ruberti,  who  has  been  with  radc  since 
1961,  holds  a  master's  degree  in  statistics  from 
Syracuse  University.  He,  his  wife  Sharon,  and 
three  children  live  in  Rome. 


1962 


Recently,  Joseph  Baldasaro  was  appointed  di- 
rector of  manufacturing  at  Federal  Chain 
Company  of  Providence.  In  his  new  post,  he  is 
responsible  for  manufacturing,  production  and 
inventory  control,  and  purchasing.  Prior  to 
joining  the  company,  he  was  with  Speidel- 
Textron,  where  he  was  materials  control  man- 
ager and  general  manager  of  industrial 
engineering  and  maintenance.  Previously,  he 
was  also  with  Fairbanks  Morse  Division  of 
Colt  Industries,  St.  Johnsbury,  Vt.,  the  Mobil 
Oil  Co.,  and  Consolidated  Edison  Co.  of  New 
York  City.  He  graduated  from  the  Bernard  M. 
Baruch  School  of  Business,  the  City  College  of 
New  York  City.  The  Baldasaros  have  two 
daughters,  Amanda  and  Adrien. 


Jesse  Erlich  has  been  elected  by  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Boston  Patent  Law  Association  to 
serve  as  secretary  and  member  of  the  Board  of 
Governors  of  the  Association.  The  Boston  Pat- 
ent Law  Association  has  more  than  250  mem- 
bers and  serves  the  First  Federal  Judicial 
Circuit,  including  Maine,  New  Hampshire, 
Massachusetts,  and  Rhode  Island.  Erlich  was 
on  the  Board  of  Governors  in  1979,  and  also 
acted  as  chairman  of  the  Patent  Law  Commit- 
tee in  1980.  In  addition  to  being  the  new  secre- 
tary, he  will  act  as  advisor  to  the  bpla  Patent 
Office  Affairs  Committee.  He  holds  a  Juris 
Doctor  degree  horn  Georgetown  and  is  a 
member  of  the  bars  in  both  the  District  of  Co- 
lumbia and  Massachusetts.  The  Erlichs  live  in 
Bedford,  Mass.  with  their  two  children,  Adam 
and  Shari . 

Ralph  Johanson  has  been  named  regional 
vice  president  of  GRW  Engineers,  Inc.,  a  full- 
service  engineering  firm  headquartered  in  Lex- 
ington, Ky.  He  will  direct  activities  in  the 
Louisville  office.  Following  graduation  from 
WPI,  he  began  his  engineering  career  as  a  lieu- 
tenant in  the  Army  Signal  Corps  and  then 
worked  in  private  consulting  firms  in  Califor- 
nia, Illinois  and  Kentucky.  In  1971,  he  started 
work  at  GRW,  and  in  1975  became  principal 
engineer  and  manager  of  Louisville-based  engi- 
neering projects. 

Johanson  is  the  author  of  the  paper  "De- 
sign of  Sanitary  Sewers"  given  at  the  WPCF 
National  Convention  in  Houston  in  1979,  and 
the  paper,  "Sewer  Maintenance  and  Rehabili- 
tation" given  at  the  WPCF  convention  in 
Knoxville,  Term,  in  1980.  He  serves  as  mayor 
of  Brownsboro  Farm,  Ky. 

Established  in  1964,  GRW  Engineers  has 
performed  engineering  design  for  over  600 
building  and  utilities  projects  with  an  esti- 
mated replacement  value  in  excess  of  $3 
billion. 

Dr.  Mike  Moses  is  associate  professor  of 
corporate  strategy  in  the  Department  of  Man- 
agement, Graduate  School  of  Business  at  New 
York  University. 

Dr.  Joseph  Swartzbaugh  has  been  pro- 
moted to  general  manager  of  engineering  at 
Systems  Technology  Corporation  (systech), 
Xenia,  Ohio.  He  joined  the  firm  six  years  ago, 
and  previously  served  as  principal  scientist. 
systech  specializes  in  environmental  and  en- 
ergy technology.  It  is  a  subsidiary  of  Systems 
Research  Laboratories  of  Beavercreek,  Ohio. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Spring  1981  /  23 


1963 


1965 


1966 


Charles  Beck  II  is  an  analytical  chemist  with 
Luvak,  Inc.  in  Boylston,  Mass. 

Dr.  Richard  Iacobucci,  president  of  Roc- 
tronics  Entertainment  Lighting,  recently  spent 
a  week  visiting  Larry  Escott  in  Manhattan. 
(Larry  is  a  stockbroker  and  investment  ana- 
lyst.) Charles  T.  Loveridge,  son  of  Charles  L. 
Loveridge,  '48,  is  now  a  member  of  the  Roc- 
tronics  staff.  Iacobucci  says  that  one  of  the  lat- 
est Roctronics  products  is  the  Lasergraph™ 
which  "can  write  'WPI'  on  Bancroft  Tower 
from  Boynton  tower."  The  new  eight-building 
Roctronics  site  is  located  in  a  55-acre  nature 
preserve  in  Pembroke,  Mass.  It  contains  both 
Iacobucci's  office  and  his  residence. 

Michael  Kulig  currently  works  as  plant 
engineer  at  Monsanto  in  Addyston,  Ohio. 

Fred  Riley  was  recently  elected  president 
of  the  International  Association  of  Quality 
Circles.  He  is  product  assurance  manager  for 
Hewlett-Packard  in  Palo  Alto,  Calif. 


1964 


►  Married:  Ernest  E.  Chenoweth  and  Virginia 
C.  Jones  of  Stowe,  Vermont  on  September  28, 
1980.  John  Jacobson,  '65  and  Mario  Tama 
were  members  of  the  wedding  party.  The 
bride,  a  graduate  of  Johnson  State  College,  is  a 
free-lance  artist  in  Stowe.  The  groom  holds  a 
bsme  and  msme  from  WPI.  Currently,  the 
Chenoweths  live  in  Stowe,  where  Cap  is  self- 
employed  with  Sunworks  Construction  and 
Engineering.  The  company  designs  and  in- 
stalls domestic  solar  systems,  builds  tradi- 
tional and  contemporary  Vermont  homes,  and 
does  solar  consulting. 

>-Bom:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Larry  G.  Hull  a 
daughter,  Lynn  Christine,  on  May  5,  1980. 

Thaddeus  Betts  is  employed  as  a  civil  en- 
gineer by  the  U.S.  Military  Academy,  West 
Point,  N.Y. 

Thomas  Boyle  is  a  registered  representa- 
tive for  Legg  Mason  Wood  Walker  in  Gaithers- 
burg,  Md. 

John  Ganley  is  a  senior  engineer  at  AT&T 
Long  Lines  in  Bedminster,  N.J. 

David  Helming  is  presently  assistant  divi- 
sion manager  at  Public  Service  Electric  &  Gas 
Co.,  Burlington,  N.J.  Formerly,  he  was  assis- 
tant manager  for  the  firm  in  Newark. 

George  Klander  holds  the  post  of  presi- 
dent of  The  Wordsmyth,  Ltd.,  West  Salem, 
Ohio.  He  is  also  an  instructor  of  communica- 
tions at  North  Central  Technical  College.  The 
Klanders  have  four  children. 

Charles  Lombardo  is  currently  with  Ever- 
green Publishing  Co.,  Trenton,  N.J. 

J.  Richard  Lundgren,  who  has  a  pho  from 
Ohio  State,  continues  as  an  associate  professor 
at  Allegheny  College,  Meadville,  Pa. 

R.  Todd  Varnum  works  as  a  development 
engineer  at  IBM  in  Essex  Junction,  Vt. 


►  Married:  Bill  Guidi  and  Mindy  Hackner  on 
November  22,  1980  In  Richmond,  Massachu- 
setts. Mrs.  Guidi  graduated  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Massachusetts  with  a  BA  in  English. 
She  is  an  in-school  suspension  supervisor  for 
Lenox  Memorial  High  School.  Her  husband 
serves  as  a  consulting  engineer  for  General 
Electric. 

Leo  Berendes  received  the  certified  finan- 
cial planner  designation  last  summer.  He  is 
with  Janney  Montgomery  Scott  in  Providence, 
R.I.,  and  lives  with  his  wife  and  three  children 
in  Rumford. 

Robert  Cahill  has  been  appointed  presi- 
dent of  Allister  Manufacturing  Company,  Inc., 
Exton,  Pa.  Previously  he  served  as  president  of 
National  Hydron  and  had  been  associated  with 
Hilti  and  SGL  Homalite.  He  has  an  mba  from 
the  Wharton  School,  University  of  Pennsylva- 
nia. AVietnam  veteran  and  company  com- 
mander with  the  U.S.  Navy  Seabees,  he 
received  the  Purple  Heart  and  the  Navy  Com- 
mendation Medal.  Allister  manufactures  elec- 
tric operators  for  commercial  and  residential 
garage  doors. 

Mike  Dembski  is  now  a  principal  of 
his  own  company,  The  Premium  Group,  of 
Danbury,  Conn.  His  company  arranges  for 
the  premiums  that  are  often  offered  by  fast 
food  restaurants  and  cereal  companies,  for 
example. 

Jay  Hammett  continues  at  EMC  Controls 
in  Cockeysville,  Md.,  and  now  holds  the  title 
of  director  of  corporate  planning. 

Dr.  Robert  Hermes  is  a  systems  analyst 
for  Magnavox  in  Mahwah,  N.J. 

Kenny  Hultgren,  still  with  GE,  presently 
is  on  a  three-year  assignment  to  the  GE  sales 
office  in  London,  England,  where  he  will  be 
selling  mechanical  drive  steam  turbines. 

Chester  Sergey,  Jr.  has  been  named  re- 
gional sales  manager  of  the  Northeast  region  of 
Enthone  Inc.,  West  Haven,  Conn.,  a  subsdiary 
of  ASARCO,  Inc.  The  region  comprises  all  of 
New  England  and  New  York  state.  Sergey  has 
done  graduate  work  at  Lehigh  University.  He 
is  a  member  of  the  American  Electroplaters 
Society  and  is  past  president  of  the  Waterbury 
branch  of  the  society.  The  Sergeys  have  two 
children. 


B.H.( Woody) Adams  serves  as  vice  president  of 
Kleinschmidt  &  Dutting,  Inc.  in  Pittsfield, 
Me. 

Roger  Armata  has  been  named  manufac- 
turing engineering  manager  of  the  Torrington 
Co.  Standard  Plant  in  Torrington,  Conn.  He 
will  be  responsible  for  industrial  engineering, 
project  engineering  and  manufacturing  main- 
tenance. With  Torrington  since  1966,  he  has 
been  with  the  engineering  department  and  has 
held  various  positions  within  the  company. 
He  holds  an  mba  from  the  University  of 
Hartford. 

William  Bentley  works  as  a  Merchant 
Marine  officer  for  Gulf  Oil's  Trading  and 
Transport  Marine  Department,  U.S.  Fleet  Per- 
sonnel, of  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Thomas  Brasiskis  is  the  president  and 
owner  of  Enco  2000,  Inc.,  Atlanta,  Ga.  He  and 
Kathleen  have  one  child  and  live  in  Marietta. 

Currently  Paul  Castle  holds  the  position 
of  general  manager  at  W.  C.  Meredith  Co., 
Inc.,  East  Point,  Ga.  He  has  an  mba  from 
Dartmouth. 

James  Cocci  serves  as  a  staff  consultant  at 
Sanders  Associates,  Inc.  in  Nashua,  N.H.  The 
Coccis  have  two  children. 

Peter  Kudless  has  been  promoted  to  the 
position  of  project  construction  manager  for 
the  Hope  Creek  Generating  Station  by  Public 
Service  Electric  &  Gas  Company  of  New  Jer- 
sey. The  plant  will  have  two  boiling  water  re- 
actor units,  each  with  a  generating  capacity  of 
1 100  megawatts.  Completion  of  Unit  1  is  cur- 
rently scheduled  for  1986,  and  Unit  2  for  1989. 

Pete  was  also  recently  selected  to  serve  as 
executive  officer  of  Reserve  Navy  Mobile  Con- 
struction Battalion  (rnmcb)  21,  which  is  head- 
quartered in  Lakehurst,  N.J.  He  is  currently  a 
lieutenant  commander  in  the  Naval  Reserve 
(Civil  Engineer  Corps).  Presently,  Ken  Olsen, 
'62  is  commanding  officer  of  the  battalion, 
RNMCB-21.  Pete,  his  wife,  Karen,  and  their  five 
children  reside  in  Tumersville,  N.J. 

Dr.  John  Lauterbach  serves  as  analytical 
research  division  head  at  Brown  &  Williamson 
Tobacco  Corp.  in  Louisville,  Ky.  Recently,  he 
was  named  chairman-elect  of  the  Louisville 
section  of  the  American  Chemical  Society. 

Orlando  Mendez  is  president  of  O.R.M. 
Construction  Corp.,  in  Puerto  Rico. 

Presently,  Michael  Napolitano  is  em- 
ployed as  an  electronic  development  engineer 
at  Boston  Digital  Corp.,  Hopkinton,  Mass. 


24  /  Spring  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


1967 


1968 


1969 


►  Bom.  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Joseph  Goulart,  a  son, 
Jared  Joseph,  on  December  9,  1980. 

Fernando  Castillo  has  been  promoted  to 
supervisor  of  standards  development  in  the 
boiler  design  department  at  Riley  Stoker  in 
Worcester.  With  the  firm  since  1970,  he  previ- 
ously was  senior  engineer  in  the  proposal  engi- 
neering department. 

Dr.  William  Cobb  is  an  assistant  professor 
of  medicine  at  Tufts  University  School  of 
Medicine,  Boston,  and  director  of  medical  ed- 
ucation at  Quincy  (Mass.)  City  Hospital. 

Bryon  Dennison  is  a  visiting  professor  at 
Southeastern  Massachusetts  University, 
North  Dartmouth.  He  holds  a  bsee  from  West 
Virginia  University  and  an  msee  from  Virginia 
Polytechnic  Institute.  The  Dennisons  live  in 
Westford,  Mass. 

Rein  Freeberg  is  a  member  of  the  techni- 
cal staff  at  Mitre  Corp.  in  Bedford,  Mass.  He 
and  his  wife,  Laurel,  reside  in  Lexington. 

Edward  Gallo  writes:  "I  arrived  here  out- 
side of  Athens,  Greece  with  my  family  in  July 
of  1980.  Presently,  I  am  the  commander  of  the 
138th  Ordnance  Company." 

Currently,  Athanasios  Kanatsoulis  holds 
the  position  of  managing  director  of  IMCO 
S.A.  Hellenic  Trading  Company  in  Athens, 
Greece.  He  has  an  msee  from  the  Moore  School 
of  Electrical  Engineering  and  an  mba  from  the 
Wharton  School  of  Finance  and  Commerce  at 
the  University  of  Pennsylvania.  His  home  ad- 
dress is:  1,  Menandrou  St.,  Kifisia,  Athens, 
Greece.  Tel.:  01-8084270.  He  and  his  wife  live 
in  Athens  and  are  the  parents  of  a  daughter. 

Russell  Lukes  works  as  manager  of  com- 
puter operations  for  Strategic  Planning  Assoc, 
"the  nation's  fastest  growing  consulting  firm 
providing  long-range  strategic  business  plan- 
ning services  to  Fortune  500  firms." 

Robert  McAndrew  serves  as  supervisory 
engineer  at  Babcock  &  Wilcox,  Lynchburg,  Va. 

Dr.  Paul  Milne,  who  holds  a  pIid  from 
Kansas  State  University,  is  with  the  Suslo  unit 
of  the  Department  of  Defense. 

Jack  Rahaim  presented  a  one-day  course 
on  techniques  and  materials  to  aid  the  energy- 
user  at  Massasoit  Community  College,  Brock- 
ton, Mass.  in  November.  The  course  was 
designed  for  individuals  who  have  direct  re- 
sponsibility for  energy  use  and  its  costs:  plant 
managers  and  engineers,  chief  executives, 
plant  owners  and  design  engineers.  Topics  in- 
cluded utility  rates,  heating,  lighting,  and  en- 
ergy audits  and  budgets.  Rahaim,  who  has 
over  12  years  of  energy  management  experi- 
ence, conducted  the  course  in  conjunction 
with  Eastern  Edison,  Massachusetts  Electric 
Company,  Mt.  Wachusett  Community  Col- 
lege and  the  Small  Business  Administration. 


>-Born:  to  Ruthanne  and  Ken  Gminski  a 

daughter,  Sarah  Beth,  on  October  22,  1980. 

Bill  Belisle  received  his  mba  from  Califor- 
nia State  University  at  Long  Beach  last  Au- 
gust. He  had  previously  received  his  msme 
from  the  same  school.  Presently,  Bill  is  the 
training  manager  at  AiResearch  Manufactur- 
ing Company  in  Torrance,  Calif.  The  firm  has 
over  7000  employees  and  is  one  of  the  Signal 
companies. 

Norman  Brunell  has  just  moved  to  Hous- 
ton, Texas  to  be  counsel  for  Litton  Energy  Sys- 
tems, which  is  undertaking  a  new 
multi-billion  dollar  project  to  convert  natural 
gas  to  methanol  fuel  on  floating  plants.  He 
holds  a  id  from  Suffolk  University. 

Dave  Gumbley  serves  as  operations  and 
engineering  coordinator  at  Getty  Refining  & 
Marketing  Co.,  Bakersfield,  Calif. 

Dr.  Charles  Konopka  is  now  a  systems 
support  specialist  at  Combustion  Engineering 
in  Windsor,  Conn.  Formerly,  he  was  assistant 
principal  at  East  Longmeadow  (Mass.]  High 
School. 

C.  David  Larson  serves  as  marketing 
manager  at  Devcon  Corp.,  Danvers,  Mass.  He 
has  an  mba  from  Rutgers. 

Douglas  Riley,  chairman  of  the  Nashua 
Regional  Planning  Commission,  addressed  a 
breakfast  forum  of  the  Southern  New 
Hampshire  Association  of  Commerce  &  In- 
dustry in  February.  He  discussed  the  area's 
sharp  growth  in  the  past  decade,  and  reviewed 
the  commission's  initiatives  in  transit,  high- 
ways, and  water  policy.  Formerly,  he  was  em- 
ployed by  the  U.S.  Army  Corps  of  Engineers, 
and  Camp  Dresser  and  McKee,  environmental 
engineers.  Currently,  he  is  a  civil  engineer  for 
Harvey  Construction  Company,  Manchester, 
N.H.  He  began  guiding  commission  policy  in 
1978  as  a  member  of  the  Regional  Sounding 
Board.  Since  last  July,  he  has  served  as  chair- 
man of  the  commission. 

Leo  Sprecher  holds  the  post  of  president  at 
Budd  Foods,  Inc.,  Manchester,  N.H. 

John  Trudeau  works  as  western  opera- 
tions manager  for  Corporate  Computer  Sys- 
tems, El  Granada,  Calif. 

Navy  Lt.  David  Williamson  has  returned 
from  a  deployment  in  the  Indian  Ocean.  He  is 
an  officer  assigned  to  the  guided  missile 
cruiser  uss  South  Carolina,  home-ported  in 
Norfolk,  Va.  While  deployed,  his  ship  operated 
with  the  aircraft  carrier  uss  Dwight  D. 
Eisenhower  and  the  guided  missile  cruiser  uss 
Virginia  as  part  of  the  Eisenhower  carrier 
group.  The  ships  formed  the  first  Atlantic 
Fleet  carrier  group  to  engage  in  a  scheduled, 
full-scale  deployment  to  the  Indian  Ocean. 
Port  visits  were  made  in  Singapore  and  Kenya 
as  the  carrier  group  traveled  more  than  68,000 
miles  and  conducted  air  operations  for  183  out 
of  240  days. 

Edward  Zakrzewski  continues  as  a  senior 
recruiter  for  Arco  Chemicals  in  Newtown 
Square,  Pa. 


Joel  Cehn  holds  the  post  of  radiation  protec- 
tion advisor  at  Pacific  Gas  &  Electric  Co.  in 
San  Francisco. 

John  Connell  is  a  project  manager  for 
Aetna  Insurance  Company  in  Hartford,  Conn. 

Alan  Cunningham  serves  as  branch  man- 
ager at  Republic  Packaging  in  Beverly,  N.J.  He 
is  married,  has  two  children,  and  holds  an  mba 
from  Babson  College. 

Previously  headquartered  in  Holland  with 
General  Electric  Plastics  B.V,  Jerome  Flynn  is 
presently  located  in  Lausanne. 

Bruce  Green  is  a  sales  manager  for  the 
Bath  Iron  Works  Corp.  Division  of  Cleveland 
Punch  &  Shear  Works.  He  is  located  in  Bath, 
Maine. 

In  January,  the  law  office  of  Warren  C. 
Lane,  Jr.  in  Worcester  was  renamed  to  Lane  & 
Greene,  PC,  a  professional  corporation.  Joel 
Greene  is  associated  with  the  firm. 

Charles  Kalauskas  has  a  new  position  as  a 
senior  transportation  planner  with  BSC  Engi- 
neering in  Boston. 

Stephen  Legomsky  holds  the  position  of 
staff  attorney  at  the  U.S.  Court  of  Appeals,  9th 
Circuit,  San  Francisco,  Calif.  He  and  his  wife, 
Lorraine,  have  one  child. 

David  Lieberman  holds  the  post  of  man- 
ager of  systems  and  procedures  at  Memorex 
Corporation  in  Santa  Clara,  Calif. 

Paul  Shea,  who  received  his  pIid  from  the 
University  of  Rhode  Island  last  year,  is  a  re- 
search engineer  at  du  Pont  in  Wilmington, 
Delaware. 

Harold  Wyzansky  has  received  his  ms  in 
systems  engineering  from  the  University  of 
Pennsylvania.  Currently,  he  is  employed  as  a 
computer  operating  system  analyst  for  the  Na- 
val Air  Development  Center,  Warminster,  Pa. 


1970 


*-Bom:  to  Carol  and  Bradford  Bjorklund  a 

daughter,  Nicole  Brianna,  last  July.  The  family 
resides  in  Woodham,  Surrey,  England. 

To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Marc  Schweig  their  third 
child,  Meredith,  last  December.  In  June, 
Schweig  graduated  from  Harvard  University 
with  an  SM  in  applied  mathematics.  In  Sep- 
tember, he  was  promoted  to  department  chief 
of  regulatory  and  international  technical  stan- 
dards at  Western  Electric  and  moved  to  Mor- 
ristown,  N.J. 

John  Boyd  is  employed  as  a  marketing  en- 
gineer at  Hewlett-Packard  Co.  in  Waltham, 
Mass. 

Daniel  Breen,  who  transferred  to  the 
Dallas  area  last  year,  was  recruited  by  Frank 
McMahon,  '72,  for  his  basketball  team.  They 
won  their  league  championship  without  a 
loss. 


The  WP1  Journal  /  Spring  1981  /  25 


Ralph  Di  Iorio  currently  lives  in  Annan- 
dale,  Va.,  and  works  for  American  Manage- 
ment Systems,  in  Arlington.  He  is  employed 
as  the  company's  decsystem-2o6o  operations 
manager  responsible  for  operations  and  plan- 
ning of  four  DEC-20/60  mainframes.  Presently, 
his  group  is  in  the  final  planning  stages  of  relo- 
cating all  DEC-20/60  mainframes  to  a  new  fa- 
cility two  blocks  away,  a  move  that  must  be 
made  without  having  any  of  the  120  users  out 
of  service.  His  company  offers  both  DEC  and 
IBM  services.  After  hours,  he  is  working  on 
his  master's  in  computer  science  at  George 
Washington  University. 

David  Emery,  a  Maine  representative  to 
the  U.S.  House  of  Representatives,  has  been 
appointed  as  deputy  minority  whip  for  the  Re- 
publican Party.  Reportedly,  Emery  is  the  first 
Maine  resident  to  serve  in  any  House  of  Repre- 
sentative leadership  post  since  1899.  He 
credits  his  appointment  in  part  to  a  need  for 
more  representation  in  the  House  hierarchy 
from  the  northeast  sector  of  the  country.  He 
says  his  assignment  will  be  "to  line  up  votes." 
He  also  expects  to  be  a  bridge  between  the 
conservatives  and  moderates  in  the  party.  In 
February,  he  was  the  guest  speaker  for  the  an- 
nual Eastern  Maine  Chapter  of  the  Maine  So- 
ciety of  Professional  Engineers  meeting  in 
Bangor. 

Duncan  Gillies  serves  as  president  of 
Duncan  M.  Gillies  Co.,  Inc.,  West  Boylston, 
Mass.  He  is  also  chief  of  the  West  Boylston 
Fire  Department. 

Continuing  as  a  project  manager  for 
Heery  Associates,  Neil  Hodes  is  currently 
concerned  with  the  sports  arena  in  An- 
chorage, Alaska.  He  has  an  mba  from  Boston 
University. 

Steven  Lacaiie  has  moved  from  Westboro, 
Mass.  and  is  now  located  in  California. 

Tim  Mackie  assumed  a  new  professional 
position  as  general  foreman  in  the  Glass  Ce- 
ramic Diamond  Products  Division  at  Norton 
Company,  recently.  He  is  an  officer  of  the 
Worcester  County  Alumni  Club. 

Edward  Mason  holds  the  position  of  vice 
president  of  operations  at  Diesel  ReCon  Com- 
pany. He  lives  in  Cordova,  Tennessee. 

William  Rolya  received  his  mba  in  finance 
from  Fordham  University  last  July. 

James  Ryan  holds  the  post  of  department 
manager  for  firmware  development  at  Honey- 
well in  Framingham,  Mass. 

John  Shea  holds  the  position  of  senior 
service  supervisor  at  Dowell  in  Freeport, 
Texas.  The  Sheas  have  three  children  and  live 
in  Friendswood. 

Robert  Soffel  writes  that  he  is  looking  for- 
ward to  Homecoming  and  hopes  to  make  it 
"back  to  the  'Tute  this  year."  He  continues 
with  the  Linde  Molecular  Sieve  Department  of 
Union  Carbide.  Since  November  he  has  been 
with  the  field  technical  service  group,  servic- 
ing their  installed  units  in  the  U.S.,  Canada, 
and  almost  anywhere  else  there  are  natural  gas 
liquids  recovery  plants,  or  ethylene  plants.  He 
divides  his  off  hours  between  the  Brookfield, 
Conn.  Volunteer  Fire  Department  and  tennis. 

Presently,  Paul  Wilson  is  employed  as 
chief  engineer  at  Arwood  Corporation  in 
Tilton,  N.H.  He  lives  in  Ashland. 

26  /  Spring  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


1971 


►  Married:  Raymond  L.  Skowyra,  Jr.  and 

Marianne  D.  Short  on  November  1,  1980  in  St. 
Paul,  Minnesota.  The  bride  graduated  from 
Newton  College  of  the  Sacred  Heart  and  Bos- 
ton College  Law  School,  and  is  an  attorney 
with  a  Minneapolis  law  firm.  The  groom,  who 
graduated  from  Harvard  Graduate  School  of 
Business,  is  with  GE  in  Minneapolis. 

John  Capitao  is  manager  of  engineering 
for  computer  services  at  GE  in  Fitchburg, 
Mass.  He  has  an  msme  from  WPI. 

Lee  Cristy  is  president  of  Wire  and  Board, 
Inc.,  Beltsville,  Md. 

Allen  Downs  is  a  senior  software  engineer 
at  Wang  Labs  in  Lowell,  Mass.  He  and  his 
wife,  Saucy,  now  live  in  Mont  Vernon,  N.H. 

Dr.  Irving  Engelson  was  recently  ap- 
pointed staff  director  of  Technical  Activities 
for  the  Institute  of  Electrical  and  Electronics 
Engineers.  He  will  direct  the  technical  opera- 
tions of  ieee,  the  world's  largest  engineering 
society,  with  200,000  members  worldwide. 
The  Technical  Activities  Department  is  re- 
sponsible for  coordinating  the  efforts  of  30 
technical  societies  within  the  ieee,  which  pub- 
lish 46  periodicals  and  hold  over  150  confer- 
ences annually. 

Dr.  Engelson  has  belonged  to  the  Institute 
since  1955  and  is  a  senior  member.  Last  year, 
he  was  appointed  acting  staff  director  of  Tech- 
nical Activities. 

Prior  to  joining  the  ieee  staff,  he  was  with 
RCA  for  eight  years.  Also,  he  was  professor 
and  associate  dean  of  the  College  of  Engineer- 
ing and  Technology  at  the  University  of  Ne- 
braska, and  associate  professor  and  assistant 
dean  at  New  Jersey  Institute  of  Technology. 

He  holds  a  bs  from  Polytechnic  Institute 
of  Brooklyn,  an  ms  from  Rutgers,  and  a  pho 
from  WPI,  all  in  electrical  engineering.  A 
member  of  Eta  Kappa  Nu,  he  also  belongs  to 
Tau  Beta  Pi  and  Sigma  Xi,  and  has  been 
elected  to  the  New  York  Academy  of  Sciences. 

Steven  Face  serves  as  a  research  scientist 
at  Kaman  Sciences  Corp.  in  Colorado  Springs, 
Colorado. 

Dr.  James  Kaufman  was  a  featured 
speaker  at  the  60th  annual  Massachusetts 
Safety  and  Health  Conference  and  Exhibit  in 
Wellesley,  Mass.  He  is  an  associate  professor  at 
Curry  College  in  Milton,  and  safety  chairman 
of  the  New  England  Section  of  the  American 
Chemical  Society's  Committee  on  Chemical 
Safety. 

William  Nute,  a  development  engineer 
for  Western  Electric,  is  currently  assigned  to 
Bell  Laboratories  in  Holmdel,  N.J. 

Vincent  Pace,  no  longer  employed  at  GE 
in  Philadelphia,  now  attends  law  school  at 
Temple  University. 


Donald  Peterson  holds  the  post  of  assis- 
tant treasurer  at  Northern  Telecom  Ltd.,  Mis- 
sissauqa,  Ontario,  Canada.  He  has  an  mba 
from  Amos  Tuck  School,  Dartmouth.  The 
Petersons  have  one  child,  Janine. 

Richard  Pietryka  is  a  sales  engineer  at 
Westinghouse,  Towson,  Md.  He  and  Paula 
have  two  children  and  live  in  Columbia. 

Glenn  White  continues  as  a  post  doctoral 
research  fellow  in  the  Department  of  Meteor- 
ology at  the  University  of  Reading  in  the 
United  Kingdom. 


1972 


*-Bom:  to  Karen  and  Mark  Dupuis  their  third 
daughter  last  August.  Mark,  who  is  Worcester 
County  Regional  Club  chairman,  was  recently 
promoted  to  plant  manager  in  the  Diamond 
Tool  Division  of  Norton  Company. 

Jack  Blaisdell  is  vice  president  and  sales 
engineer  at  Tectrol  Associates,  West  Spring- 
field, Mass.  He,  his  wife,  and  two  children  re- 
side in  Lee. 

Joseph  Gotta  has  been  appointed  western 
region  sales  engineer  for  Galileo  Electro- 
Optics  Corp.,  Sturbridge,  Mass.  Earlier,  he 
was  a  marketing  coordinator  for  Ludlow  Corp. 
In  his  new  post  at  Galileo,  he  is  responsible  for 
the  administration  of  technical  sales  support 
to  industrial  and  government  accounts  in  the 
western  half  of  the  U.S. 

George  Hajisawa  is  a  secondary  school 
teacher  for  the  Ministry  of  Education  in  Nico- 
sia, Cyprus. 

John  O'Brien  holds  the  post  of  plant  man- 
ager at  Spectra  Physics  in  Eugene,  Oregon. 


1973 


Bill  Ault  is  now  a  sales  supervisor  for  Norton 
Co.,  with  a  territory  in  central  Illinois.  Holly 
(Keyes)  Ault,  '74,  works  as  a  research  engineer 
for  Olin  Corp.  in  East  Alton,  111. 

Fermo  Bianchi,  Jr.  now  works  as  a  con- 
struction coordinator  for  Stone  &  Webster  in 
St.  Francisville,  La. 

Dr.  Paul  Ciaccio,  who  holds  a  doctorate 
in  optometry  from  the  New  England  College 
of  Optometry,  is  an  optometrist  in  Orleans, 
Mass. 

James  Davis  serves  as  a  sales  account 
manager  at  Nalco  Chemical  Co.,  Oak  Brook, 
111. 

Tom  DiFrancesco,  a  civil  engineer  and 
cpa,  has  joined  the  Disney  organization.  He 
works  in  Florida  on  epcot  (experimental  proto- 
type community  of  tomorrow)  and  in  Califor- 
nia at  the  Disney  Studio  in  Burbank  and  at 
Disneyland.  "I  play  golf,  when  I'm  not  work- 
ing," he  says. 

Conrad  Fong  is  currently  employed  as  a 
project  engineer  at  Sweetheart  Plastics  in 
Wilmington,  Mass. 


David  Haflich  is  operations  coordinator 
for  Envirotech  Operating  Services  in  San  Ma- 
teo, Calif.  He  has  an  ms  in  environmental  en- 
gineering from  Stanford  University. 

Mervyn  Hamer  holds  the  post  of  process 
engineer  at  Stuart  Pharmaceuticals  in  Pasa- 
dena, Calif. 

Bucky  Kashiwa  now  works  in  the  fluid 
dynamics  group  of  the  Theoretical  Division  at 
the  Los  Alamos  Scientific  Laboratory.  He  is 
concerned  with  the  investigation  of 
multiphase  flow  phenomena.  His  group  is 
looking  into  the  effects  of  steam-water  jets 
which  arise  in  hypothetical  nuclear  reactor 
accidents. 

Jeffrey  Korn  has  completed  the  initial 
training  at  Delta  Air  Lines'  training  school  at 
the  Hartsfield  Atlanta  International  Airport 
and  is  now  assigned  to  the  airline's  Miami  pi- 
lot base  as  a  second  officer.  Earlier,  he  had  been 
with  Altair  Airlines. 

William  Mawdsley  has  been  elected  assis- 
tant vice  president  and  associate  actuary 
within  the  actuarial  organization  at  State  Mu- 
tual Life  Assurance  Company  of  America  in 
Worcester.  A  fellow  of  the  Society  of 
Actuaries,  he  was  named  associate  actuary  in 
1978. 

Rick  Nabb  and  his  wife,  Gina,  are  located 
in  Connecticut.  Rick  continues  as  manager  of 
compounding  at  Clairol. 

Last  September,  William  Nutter  left  GE 
Ordnance  Systems  and  later  joined  Rockwell 
International  Space  Systems  Group  at  Ken- 
nedy Space  Center  in  Florida.  He  is  a  member 
of  the  engineering  technical  staff  for  space 
shuttle  launch  operations. 

Warren  Smith  holds  the  post  of  senior  en- 
gineer at  Air  Cruisers  Company,  Belmar,  N.J. 
The  company  manufactures  aircraft  escape 
slides  and  life  rafts. 

John  Zikopoulos,  who  has  a  phD  in  bio- 
chemistry from  Iowa  State  University,  serves 
as  a  senior  research  scientist  at  Armour  & 
Company  in  Scottsdale,  Ariz.  He  and  Athena 
have  two  children. 


1974 


►  Married:  Bruce  R.  Beaupre  and  Donna  T. 
Ventresca  in  Worcester  on  November  15, 
1980.  Mrs.  Beaupre,  a  graduate  of  Salter  Secre- 
tarial School  and  Worcester  State,  is  employed 
by  Riley  Stoker  Corp.  The  groom  is  a  process 
engineer  in  the  special  formats  area  in  the  film 
division  of  Polaroid  Corp.,  Waltham.  He  is 
studying  for  his  master's  degree  at  WPI. 
....  Alan  C.  Hallquist  and  Laurie  A.  Des- 
marais  on  October  4,  1980  in  Winchendon, 
Massachusetts.  The  bride  graduated  from 
Westfield  State  College  and  is  purchasing 
agent  for  The  Lakso  Company,  Leominster. 
The  groom  is  an  air  quality  scientist  at  Envi- 
ronmental Research  and  Technology, 
Lexington. 


►  Born,  to  Betsy  and  John  Chipman,  a 
daughter,  Julie  Ellen,  on  August  26,  1980.  John 
received  his  master's  in  engineering  manage- 
ment from  Northeastern  University  last  June. 
Presently,  he  is  working  with  fiber  optic  trans- 
mission systems  at  GTE  Sylvania,  Needham, 

Mass to  Penny  and  Alan  Judd,  a 

daughter,  Heather  Catherine,  on  January  4, 
1981. 

Christopher  Cigal,  a  captain  in  the  U.S. 
Army,  is  located  at  Washington  &  Jefferson 
College  in  Washington,  Pa.  He  and  his  wife, 
Anne,  live  in  Canonsburg. 

Todd  Cormier  is  employed  as  a  senior 
project  engineer  at  Halliwell  Associates,  Inc., 
in  East  Providence,  R.I,  specializing  in  the  de- 
sign of  hyroelectric  power  projects.  The  firm  is 
involved  in  all  aspects  of  alternative  energy, 
including:  conversion  to  coal,  solar,  and  most 
recently,  oil  shale. 

Steve  Dacri  says  that  he  entertained  on 
the  Prinsendam  in  Alaska  "before  it  sank!"  In 
1980  he  appeared  on  TV  in  "Candid  Camera," 
'Good  Day,"  "Dinah  &  Friends,"  and  did  a 
taping  for  "That's  Incredible"  which  aired  this 
January.  Among  the  celebrities  he  has  recently 
worked  with  are  Bob  Hope,  Tony  Orlando,  and 
Tim  Conway. 

Ranjan  Das  works  as  a  project  engineer  at 
Dresser  Industries  in  Olean,  N.  Y. 

Dr.  Richard  Dunlap  is  a  research  associate 
at  Dalhousie  University,  department  of 
physics,  in  Halifax,  Nova  Scotia.  He  holds  an 
ma  from  Dartmouth  and  a  pIid  from  Clark. 

Robert  Ferrari  works  as  a  project  engineer 
at  WVP  Consulting  Engineers,  Decatur,  Illi- 
nois. He  and  his  wife,  Judy,  live  in  Urbana. 

Joseph  Forand,  who  has  an  ms  from  Yale 
and  an  mba  from  Northeastern,  is  now  a  chem- 
ist for  Procter  &  Gamble  in  Cincinnati. 

James  Gow  has  been  promoted  to  director 
of  systems  development  within  the  systems 
development  organization  at  State  Mutual  in 
Worcester.  A  fellow  of  the  Life  Management 
Institute,  he  was  named  senior  project  man- 
ager in  1979. 

Lawrence  Hayden  is  now  a  software  engi- 
neer at  Raytheon  in  Portsmouth,  R.I.  Former- 
ly, he  was  an  Army  captain  in  the  Pentagon. 
He,  Gail,  and  two  children  reside  in  Middle- 
town. 

Capt.  Thomas  Kielick,  U.S.  Army,  is  an 
assistant  professor  of  military  science  in  the 
Siena  College  rotc  department  at  Loudon- 
ville,  N.Y. 


Harold  Maxon  serves  as  a  risk  engineer  at 
Procter  &  Gamble  in  Cincinnati. 

William  Murwin  was  recently  promoted 
to  systems  consultant  within  the  data  process- 
ing organization  at  State  Mutual  Life  Assur- 
ance Co.  of  America,  Worcester.  He  joined  the 
company  in  1974.  In  1978  he  was  promoted  to 
senior  systems  analyst. 

Ronald  Sarver  continues  as  president  of 
Ronnie's  Catering,  Inc.  and  Sarver  Realty  in 
Randolph,  Mass. 

Stephen  Skutel  has  been  promoted  to  sen- 
ior computer  research  and  technical  support 
consultant  within  the  data  processing  organi- 
zation at  State  Mutual  in  Worcester.  He  joined 
the  company  as  a  systems  analyst  in  1974.  He 
was  promoted  to  computer  research  and  edu- 
cation consultant  in  1977  and  advisory  com- 
puter reseach  and  education  consultant  in 
1978. 

Dean  Stratouly  has  been  elected  vice  pres- 
ident of  Massachusetts  operations  at  Wright- 
Pierce,  architects  and  engineers,  in  Topsham, 
Maine. 

Craig  Tyler  is  now  manager  of  customer 
engineering  at  Tuttle  &  Bailey,  New  Britain, 
Conn. 

Mary  Lynch  Voshell  is  temporarily  sus- 
pending her  career  to  remain  at  home  with  her 
daughter,  Sharon,  who  was  bom  on  Feb.  9, 
1980. 

Frederick  Williams  is  an  electro  optical 
engineer  at  CBS  Technology  Center,  Stamford, 
Conn. 


1975 


►  Married:  John  M.  Batt  and  Barbara  A.  Mutz 
on  June  14,  1980. ►Born:  to  Joan  and  Stephen 
Fitzhugh  their  first  child,  Christopher  Ian,  on 
February  24,  1981. 

Norton  Bonaparte,  Jr.  holds  the  post  of  di- 
rector of  program  development  at  American 
Society  for  Public  Administration  in  Washing- 
ton, D.C.  He  has  a  master  of  public  adminis- 
tration degree  from  Cornell  University. 

Robert  Cummings  now  serves  as  opera- 
tions engineer  for  Public  Service  Company  of 
New  Mexico.  He  is  located  in  Albuquerque. 

Presently,  Alan  Destribats  is  manager  of 
strategic  planning  in  Lachine,  Quebec,  Canada 
for  Canadian  General  Electric.  He  and  Mary 
Jane  have  two  children. 

Michael  Dudas  holds  the  position  of  vice 
president  at  Electrodes,  Inc.,  Milford,  Conn. 

Currently,  John  FitzPatrick  serves  as  a 
group  manager  for  Esso  Engineering  Europe, 
Ltd.,  and  is  located  in  England.  He  is  estimat- 
ing for  construction  projects  in  Italy,  France, 
and  Germany.  His  wife,  Virginia  (Giordano),  is 
doing  part-time  work  as  a  systems  consultant 
for  Control  Data  Limited  two  days  a  week. 
Daughter,  Cara,  keeps  her  busy,  too. 

Ginny  writes,  "England  is  expensive,  but 
fun."  Paris,  Austria,  and  Scotland  are  next  on 
the  FitzPatrick  agenda. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Spring  1981/27 


Robert  Granger  writes  that  he  has  opened 
his  own  law  office  in  Boston.  He  received  his 
Juris  Doctor  degree  with  honors  from  Suffolk 
University  and  was  admitted  to  the  Massachu- 
setts Bar.  For  the  last  six  years,  he  has  been  as- 
sociated with  Chas.  T.  Main,  Inc.,  a  major 
engineering  firm  in  Boston,  At  Main,  he  has 
served  as  principal  consultant  to  electric  sup- 
pliers and  consumers  in  the  areas  of  rates,  reg- 
ulation, and  finance. 

Clarke  Greene  has  been  appointed  sys- 
tems engineer  by  Times  Fiber  Communica- 
tions, Inc.,  a  subsidiary  of  Insilco  Corporation 
in  Wallingford,  Conn.  He  will  assist  in  the  de- 
sign of  systems  for  the  cable  TV,  military,  and 
telecommunications  markets.  Previously,  he 
was  a  project  engineer  at  the  Radio  Amateur 
Satellite  Corporation,  where  his  responsibili- 
ties included  design,  testing  and  fabrication  of 
spacecraft  antenna  and  computer  systems. 
From  1976  to  1978  he  was  a  technical  editor 
for  the  American  Radio  Relay  League.  Also,  he 
has  been  a  science  instructor  at  the  Talcott 
Mountain  Science  Center  in  Avon. 

Bill  Gregory  has  a  new  job  as  senior  man- 
ufacturing engineer  at  ITT  Surprenant  in  Clin- 
ton, Mass. 

Lloyd  Hemenway  works  as  a  product 
manager  for  dry  flue  gas  desulfurization  sys- 
tems at  Buell,  Emission  Control  Division,  in 
Lebanon,  Pa. 

Paul  Houlihan  works  as  a  field  sales  engi- 
neer at  Texas  Instruments,  Inc.,  Waltham, 
Mass. 

Robert  Howard  is  with  Alcoa  Technical 
Center,  Alcoa  Center,  Pa.  He  and  Betty  have 
two  children  and  live  in  Export,  Pa. 

Michael  Kallet  serves  as  vice  president  of 
systems  and  programming  at  Computer  Sup- 
port Corp.,  Dallas,  Texas. 

Dr.  Mohsen  Kavehrad  is  a  member  of  the 
technical  staff  at  GTE  Laboratories,  Inc.,  Wal- 
tham, Mass.  He  and  his  wife,  Susan,  have  one 
child  and  reside  in  Hudson,  N.H. 

Presently,  Robert  Martinaitis  works  as  an 
associate  staff  engineer  in  the  Surveillance 
Systems  Group  for  the  Applied  Physics  Labo- 
ratoryof  the  Johns  Hopkins  University,  Lau- 
rel, Md. 

Robert  Poxon  has  been  named  front  end 
manager  at  the  new  Wonder  Food  Warehouse 
in  Woonsocket  Plaza  in  Rhode  Island.  He 
joined  Wonder  in  1972  in  Milford  as  a  part- 
timer.  In  1975  he  became  front  end  manager  of 
that  store.  He  assisted  in  the  opening  of  Won- 
der's Big  D  Market  in  Uxbridge  in  1978.  The 
Wonder  Market  Company  does  $110  million 
in  sales  annually  and  is  reportedly  the  largest 
sales  volume  independent  supermarket  opera- 
tion in  New  England. 

James  Roche  is  a  senior  project  engineer  at 
General  Motors  Corp.,  Warren,  Mich. 

Paul  Rojko  continues  as  an  engineer  with 
the  usaf. 

Patricia  Pfeiifer  Salamone  continues  as  a 
graduate  student  and  research  assistant  in  the 
Boston  College  physics  department .  She  and 
her  husband,  Salvatore,  reside  in  Brookline, 
Mass. 


Paul  Stein  is  a  graduate  student  in  the  De- 
partment of  Physiology  at  Albany  (N.Y.)  Medi- 
cal College.  He  has  an  ms  horn  the  University 
of  North  Dakota. 

Frank  Vanzler  works  as  an  assistant  proj- 
ect engineer  for  the  Turner  Construction  Co. 
in  Cleveland. 

Jeffrey  Wnek  completed  his  third  Boston 
Marathon  in  2:43.  He  lives  in  Athol,  Mass. 


1976 

REUNION 
October  2,3 

►  Married:  Gary  M.  Anderson  to  Margaret  E. 
Toms  in  Wellesley,  Massachusetts  on  October 
4,  1980.  The  bride  graduated  from  Wheaton 
College  and  works  for  the  University  of  Mas- 
sachusetts Medical  Center.  The  groom  is  with 

Heald  Machine  Company,  Worcester 

Jonathan  G.  Bradley  and  Lynne  H.  Jordan  of 
London,  England  on  December  20,  1980  in 
Houston,  Texas.  The  bridegroom  is  employed 
by  Texas  Instruments,  Houston. 

Thomas  Bailey  is  employed  as  a  sales  en- 
gineer for  the  ITT  Surprenant  Division  in  Des 
Plaines,  111. 

Stephen  Borys  serves  as  a  senior  engineer 
in  Los  Angeles  for  Exxon  Co.,  USA. 

Richard  Brandoli  is  a  senior  manufactur- 
ing supervisor  at  Texas  Instruments,  Attle- 
boro,  Mass.  While  he  was  racquetball  champ 
at  the  Attleboro  YMCA,  Jack  Fitzgibbons,  75, 
was  squash  champion. 

Jeffrey  Buntz  is  assistant  engineer  for  the 
Northeast  Connecticut  Regional  Planning 
Agency  in  Brooklyn,  Conn. 

John  Carbone  is  with  the  Naval  Ocean 
Systems  Center  in  San  Diego,  Calif. 

Previously  with  Union  Carbide  in  Tona- 
wanda,  N.Y.,  Jeffrey  Codene  is  now  project  en- 
gineering supervisor  at  Ensign  Bickford  Co., 
Simsbury,  Conn.  He  is  working  for  his  mba. 

Stephen  Cummings,  who  received  his 
mba  from  Boston  University,  now  is  employed 
as  a  production  engineer  at  Polaroid  in  Wal- 
tham, Mass. 

Lynne  Buckley  Decker  continues  with 
United  Engineers  &  Constructors,  Boston. 
She  and  her  husband,  Francis,  reside  in  Wey- 
mouth, Mass. 

Timothy  Golden  is  a  technical  service 
representative  for  Monsanto  in  Springfield, 
Mass.  He  holds  an  mba  from  A.I.C. 


George  Hefferon,  who  received  his  PhD 
from  Columbia  University  last  year,  is  now  a 
research  associate  at  Ohio  State  University  in 
Columbus. 

Currently,  John  Heid  works  in  corporate 
engineering  at  Max  Factor  in  Hollywood, 
where  he  is  a  project  manager.  He  resides  in 
Camarillo,  Calif. 

Last  year,  Steven  Kuznicki  received  his 
phD  in  chemistry  from  the  University  of  Utah. 
Now,  he  is  senior  research  chemist  for  Air 
Products  &  Chemicals  in  Allentown,  Pa.  The 
Kuznickis  have  three  children. 

Richard  Leone  is  with  Factory  Mutual  Re- 
search Corp.,  Norwood,  Mass.  He  and  Karen 
live  in  Milford. 

Anne  Madara,  still  with  Polaroid,  now 
works  for  the  Corporate  Systems  Division  in 
Waltham,  Mass.  She  is  currently  the  coordina- 
tor for  the  Polaroid  Programmer  Training  Pro- 
gram. The  first  ten  trainees  will  graduate  in 
June  after  eight  months  of  combined  class- 
room and  on-the-job  training. 

Craig  Plourde  has  been  promoted  to  assis- 
tant vice  president  in  technical  support  in 
management  information  systems  at  the  Con- 
necticut Bank  and  Trust  Company.  He  joined 
the  company  in  1976  as  a  senior  programmer 
and  has  been  senior  systems  engineer  since 
1978. 

Rick  Rudis  is  an  engineering  assurance 
engineer  for  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston,  Mass. 

Steven  Schoen  has  been  named  a  fellow  of 
the  Society  of  Actuaries,  as  a  result  of  a  test 
which  he  passed  last  November.  Also,  in  Feb- 
ruary, he  was  promoted  to  assistant  actuary  at 
Sun  Life  of  Canada,  the  insurance  company 
where  he  is  employed. 

Kelly  and  Bruce  Stoller,  who  were  mar- 
ried last  June,  are  living  in  Nashua,  N.H. 

Esmail  Tinati  is  self-employed  in  Las 
Vegas. 

Cpt.  Neal  Wright,  who  has  been  with  the 
U.S.  Army  Corps  of  Engineers  in  Ft.  Belvoir, 
Md.,  is  looking  forward  to  an  overseas  assign- 
ment in  April. 


1977 


►  Married:  Allan  R.  Clarke  and  Ann  C.  Depies 
in  Appleton,  Wisconsin  on  November  1,  1980. 
Mrs.  Clarke  graduated  from  Marquette  Uni- 
versity. She  is  a  dental  hygienist.  Her  husband 

is  a  chemical  engineer  for  Amricon 

Robert  Medeiros  and  Diane  F.  Markmann  in 
Fallston,  Maryland  on  December  20,  1980. 
The  bride,  who  has  been  employed  as  a  branch 
bank  manager,  attended  Towson  State  Univer- 
sity. The  couple  presently  resides  in  Herts, 

England J.  Clayton  Ney,  Jr.,  toTania 

M.  Olear  on  February  21,  1981  in  Waterbury, 
Connecticut.  The  bride  graduated  from  Cedar 
Crest  College,  Allentown,  Pa.  with  a  degree  in 
sociology  and  education.  She  is  the  affirmative 
action  officer  for  the  City  of  Waterbury.  Her 
husband  serves  as  an  administrator  for  Ex- 
panded Rubber  Products,  Watertown. 


28  /  Spring  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


Allyn  Amabile  serves  as  a  design  engineer 
at  Celanese  Chemical  in  Houston,  Texas. 

Timothy  Ascani  is  an  executive  officer 
with  the  U.S.  Army  at  Ft.  Lewis,  Washington. 

Paul  Cadorette,  who  is  pursuing  his  mba, 
works  as  district  representative  for  Bess  Eaton 
Donuts  in  Westerly,  R.I. 

Andrew  (Moon)  Clancy  now  serves  as  a 
planning  engineer  at  Western  Electric  Co.  in 
Burlington,  Mass.,  having  transferred  to  the 
Marketing  Research  Group.  He  still  rows  for 
the  Riverside  Boat  Club  in  Cambridge. 

William  Cloutier  works  as  project  engi- 
neer for  Nuclear  Energy  Services  in  Danbury, 
Conn.  He  and  Maureen  live  in  Bethel. 

Ismael  Colon  serves  as  a  project  scientist 
at  Union  Carbide  in  Elm  Brook,  N.J. 

W.  Paul  Cullen  continues  with  GE  in 
Schenectady,  N.Y. 

Steven  Fine  is  a  laboratory  scientist  at 
Western  Company  in  Fort  Worth,  Texas.  He 
works  with  the  analytical  group  of  the 
Western  Research  Division.  In  December,  he 
received  his  ms  in  chemistry  horn  Texas 
A&M. 

Nancy  Gettens  is  with  Polaroid  in  Wal- 
tham,  Mass.  She  and  her  husband,  Anthony 
Giglio  live  in  Medfield. 

Mike  Gregory  has  been  in  pilot  training 
with  the  U.S.  Air  Force. 

James  Howe  is  employed  as  a  hydro  plant 
engineer  at  Niagara  Mohawk  Power  Corp. 

David  Laferriere  serves  as  a  corporate  staff 
engineer  at  Goodyear  Tire  &  Rubber,  Barber- 
ton,  Ohio. 

William  Lee,  a  first  lieutenant  in  the  U.S. 
Army,  is  stationed  at  Ft.  McNair,  in  Washing- 
ton, D.C. 

Kathy  Molony  was  recently  promoted  to 
department  head  of  production  in  oxidation  at 
Clairol,  Stamford,  Conn. 

Ltc.  Ronald  Norris  is  with  the  U.S.  Army 
in  Washington,  D.C. 

Michael  O'Leary  works  as  a  sales  engi- 
neer at  Blake  Equipment  in  Bloomfield,  Conn. 

Amy  Schneider  is  employed  as  a  program- 
mer by  GTE  Sylvania  of  Danvers,  Mass. 

Nicolette  Stultz  holds  the  position  of  sys- 
tems design  engineer  at  Solar  Energy  Sales  in 
Walnut  Creek,  Calif. 

Chris  Thomas  is  district  engineer  at  the 
Torrington  Co.,  Novi,  Michigan. 

Richard  Wheeler  holds  the  post  of  product 
sales  representative  at  Hooker  Chemical  Co., 
Pottstown,  Pa.  He  and  Linda  are  the  parents  of 
Jason,  1. 


1978 


►  Married:  Kathryn  E.  Lyga  and  Edgar  F. 
Heselbarth  HI  on  October  4,  1980  in  Salem, 
New  Hampshire.  The  bride  is  a  design  engi- 
neer at  C.  E.  Power  Systems,  Newington.  Her 
husband,  a  graduate  of  Wentworth  Institute  of 
Technology,  is  an  electronics  technician  at 

Digital  Equipment  Corp John  Sabat, 

Jr  and  Maryanne  Bohdiewicz  on  August  3, 
1980  in  Worcester.  Mrs.  Sabat  graduated  from 
Anna  Maria,  is  in  the  master's  program  at 
Worcester  State  College,  and  is  a  learning- 
disabilities  specialist  at  the  Ellis  Elementary 
School,  Fremont,  N.H.  The  bridegroom,  an 
electrical  engineer  at  Sanders,  Inc.,  Nashua, 
N.H.,  is  taking  the  master's  program  at  North- 
eastern in  Boston 

Alvaro  Arcila  serves  as  a  planning  advisor 
at  Fabricato,  S.A.,  in  Colombia. 

Howard  Bleakie  holds  the  post  of  engi- 
neering manager  at  Protanic  in  Cohasset, 
Mass. 

Robert  Brosnahan  recently  published  a 
paper  in  the  Journal  of  Biomedical  Materials 
Research.  It  was  entitled:  "Suitability  of  Pig- 
mented PVDF  Wire  For  Implantation  in  the 
Dog." 

David  Chin  is  now  with  Factory  Mutual 
Engineering  Association  in  Dallas,  Texas. 

Lou  Collette  works  as  a  senior  engineer  in 
government  systems  at  Harris  Corp.,  Palm 
Bay,  Florida.  He  is  studying  for  his  master's 
degree  at  Florida  Institute  of  Technology.  The 
Collettes  have  a  fourteen-month-old  daughter 
and  live  in  Melbourne. 

Greg  Dunnells  continues  as  a  process  en- 
gineer at  Gulf  Oil  Chemicals  Co.,  Baytown, 
Texas.  He  is  involved  with  technical  service  in 
the  olefins  units. 

Eric  Fredrickson  presently  works  for 
C  &  K  Components  in  Newton,  Mass. 

Robert  Fritsch,  who  has  his  msee  from 
WPI,  now  works  as  an  associate  engineer  at 
EVA  Service  Corp.,  Lincoln,  R.  I. 

Howard  Hillstrom  is  presently  studying 
for  his  phD  in  biomedical  engineering  at  Drexel 
University  in  Philadelphia.  His  research  is 
concerned  with  myoelectric,  microprocessor 
controlled  prosthetic  devices. 

Wayne  Martin  serves  as  a  nuclear  plant 
engineer  for  GE  in  Windsor,  Conn. 

Marine  1st  Lt.  Mark  McCalmont  has  re- 
ceived his  wings  of  gold  in  recognition  of  18 
months  of  flight  training.  The  naval  aviator's 
curriculum  included  basic  studies  in  engineer- 
ing and  navigation,  training  flights  in  simula- 
tors, and  aircraft  carrier  landings.  He  joined 
the  Marines  in  1978.  Presently,  he  is  with  the 
All  Weather  Attack  Training  Squadron-202  at 
the  Marine  Corps  Air  Station  in  Cherry  Point, 
N.C. 

Steven  McLafferty  is  a  design  engineer  at 
CSP,  Inc.,  Billerica,  Mass.  He  works  with  ar- 
ray processors. 

Recently,  Pete  Mulvihill  accepted  a  pro- 
motion to  district  supervising  engineer  in  the 
San  Francisco  field  office  of  Industrial  Risk 
Insurers. 


Robert  Pancotti  is  a  computer  scientist  at 
Lawrence  Livermore  National  Laboratory  in 
Livermore,  Calif. 

Robert  Rossier  works  as  an  associate  engi- 
neer at  Electric  Boat  in  Groton,  Conn. 

Newell  Stamm,  Jr.  is  with  Stamm  Con- 
struction, Newingto,  Conn. 

Paula  Jane  Stoll,  who  has  a  master's  de- 
gree from  WPI,  is  presently  a  graduate  student 
and  research  assistant  in  the  chemical  engi- 
neering department  at  the  University  of  Illi- 
nois in  Urbana. 

Jan  Tauc  is  with  Northern  Research  &  En- 
gineering Corp.,  Woburn,  Mass. 

Stephen  Tourgny  is  a  quality  process  con- 
trol engineer  at  Norton  Co.,  Huntsville, 
Alabama. 


1979 


►  Married:  David  W.  Ford  to  Patricia  Caswell 
in  Fall  River,  Massachusetts  on  November  29, 
1980.  Mrs.  Ford  is  attending  Southeastern 
Massachusetts  University Scott  Han- 
sen and  Leslie  Schellhase  on  October  11,  1980 
in  Bedford,  Massachusetts.  Jay  Frankudakis 
was  in  the  wedding  party.  ....  Mark  B. 
Hecker  to  Ann-Marie  Robinson  on  April  19, 
1980.  The  bride  serves  as  an  associate  software 
engineer  at  Prime  Computer  in  Framingham, 

Mass Mark  T.  McCabe  to  Kim  S. 

Lusnia  in  Chicopee,  Massachusetts  on  De- 
cember 27,  1980.  Mrs.  McCabe  graduated 
from  Bowdoin  College  and  was  a  marketing 
consultant  at  New  England  Telephone  Co., 
Worcester.  Her  husband  works  for  Wendell 

Kent  Co.  of  Bradenton,  Florida Jason 

F.  Providakes  to  Janet  K.  Grossman  on  January 
10,  1981  in  Springfield,  Massachusetts.  Mrs. 
Providakes  graduated  from  Springfield  Techni- 
cal Community  College  and  was  a  flower  de- 
signer and  manager  at  Small's  Flower  Shop. 
The  groom  is  a  doctoral  candidate  in  electrical 
engineering  at  Cornell  University,  Ithaca, 
N.  Y.   .   .   .   .  John  M.  Vogt  and  Heidi  Pivnick 
on  February  14,  1981  in  Providence,  Rhode  Is- 
land. The  bride  works  for  AT&T  Long  Lines, 
Boston.  Her  husband  is  with  Warren  Commu- 
nications, Littleton,  Mass. 

Carl  Anderson  holds  the  post  of  assistant 
chief  engineer  of  ball  valves  at  Jamesbury 
Corp.,  Worcester.  He  has  an  ms  in  manage- 
ment from  WPI. 

Paul  Bellagamba  is  a  civil  engineer  for  the 

City  of  Bristol,  Conn Currently, 

Allen  Buchinski  serves  as  a  productivity  engi- 
neer in  Schenectady,  N.Y.  at  GE John 

Corini  works  as  a  product  design  engineer  in 

Lynn,  Mass.  at  General  Electric 

Philip  Cullin  is  with  Astra  Pharmaceuticals, 
Westboro,  Mass. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Spring  1981  /  29 


Stephen  DiPietro  has  been  named  a  recip- 
ient of  a  fellowship  administered  by  the  Insti- 
tute of  Nuclear  Power  Operations.  One  of  62 
fellowships  awarded  to  advanced  engineering 
students,  it  will  aid  the  recipient  in  pursuing  a 
master's  degree  in  nuclear  engineering.  Each 
recipient  receives  a  stipend  of  $5,500  for  the 
academic  year,  with  $2,500  being  given  to 
each  institution  to  help  defray  other  costs. 
The  nationwide  recipients  were  chosen  based 
on  grade  point  average  and  interest  in  nuclear 
power  operations.  Previously,  DiPietro  re- 
ceived a  Babcock  and  Wilcox  Academic  Schol- 
arship and  a  Mary  T.  Richardson  Fund 
Scholarship.  Currently,  he  is  seeking  an  MS 
degree  in  nuclear  materials  engineering. 

Mary  Dunn  works  as  a  design  engineer  at 

Digital  in  Colorado  Springs,  Colo 

Alwyn  Fitzgerald  has  a  new  job  as  office  man- 
ager of  Connecticut  Valley  Biological  Supply 
Co.,  Inc.,  Southampton,  Mass. 

Mike  Gabriella,  a  quality  control  engineer 
at  New  England  Interstate,  Westboro,  Mass., 
is  a  baritone  in  the  Grandstand  Vocal  Band, 
1980  semifinalists  in  the  international 
spebsqsa  (barbershop)  competition. 

Arthur  Girard,  who  has  a  bs  in  urban  plan- 
ning from  WPI,  is  program  administrator  for 
Memorial  Square  Home  Improvement  Pro- 
gram in  Springfield,  Mass Peter 

Gould  is  an  associate  engineer  at  Raytheon 

Co.,  Way  land,  Mass Robert  Gregorio 

serves  as  a  platoon  leader  with  the  U.S.  Army 
at  Ft.  Bliss,  Texas. 

Suzanne  Hess,  an  Exxon  sales  representa- 
tive, is  concerned  with  the  southeastern  Vir- 
ginia territory.  She  has  conducted  lubrication 
courses  for  Exxon  customers  in  the  area. 
Anheuser-Busch  invited  her  to  recommend 
lubes  for  all  the  new  equipment  for  its  massive 
Williamsburg  brewery  expansion.  For  relaxa- 
tion, Sue  likes  nothing  better  than  sailing 
around  Chesapeake  Bay  in  a  19-foot  sloop. 
Last  spring,  she  spent  her  vacation  island- 
hopping  the  Caribbean  in  a  chartered  boat. 

2/Lt.  Steve  Kanevski  is  a  navigator  for  the 
U.S.  Air  Force.  He  expects  to  be  stationed  in 

England  soon Jim  Kelleher  serves  as  a 

programmer  at  IBM  in  Middletown,  R.I.  He  is 
working  on  the  command  and  control  system 
for  the  Trident  submarine  and  also  taking  an 
assembly  language  programming  course  at  uri. 

Leonard  Kleczynski  is  a  design  engineer 
in  R&D  for  GE's  Direct  Energy  Conversion 
Projects-Fuel  Cells  in  Wilmington,  Mass. 
....  Andy  Labrecque  holds  the  post  of  su- 
pervisor of  production  planning  at  Armstrong 

World  Industries  in  Fulton,  N.Y 

Claude  Lecluze  is  a  process  engineer  at  ELF- 

Aquitaine  in  France Kathleen 

McKeon  is  completing  her  master  of  science 
degree  at  Michigan  State  University  this  year. 
She  hopes  to  teach  mathematics  at  a  commu- 
nity or  junior  college. 


Jeff  Mills  has  just  finished  his  msme  at 
Duke  and  now  works  at  UOP  Process 
Division  near  Chicago William  Pot- 
ter works  for  General  Data  Comm.,  Inc.,  Dan- 
bury,  Conn.  He  is  also  pursuing  his  master's 
degree Jeffrey  Stickles  is  a  manufac- 
turing engineer  at  AVCO  Systems, 
Wilmington,  Mass. 

2nd  Lt.  Gregory  VanHouten  has 
graduated  from  the  Navy's  Aviation  Indoctri- 
nation School.  During  the  four-week  course  at 
the  Naval  Air  Station,  Pensacola,  Fla.,  he  stud- 
ied basic  aerodynamics,  aviation  physiology 
and  engineering.  AIC  is  the  first  step  in  the  na- 
val flight  training  program  leading  to  designa- 
tion as  a  naval  aviator.  VanHouten  joined  the 
Marine  Corps  in  1978. 

Michael  Vicens  serves  as  a  quality  engi- 
neer at  Storage  Technology  Corp.  in  Puerto 
Rico.  He  and  Maria  have  two  children. 
....  Robert  Williams  works  as  a  project  en- 
gineer for  the  Naval  Electronic  Systems 
Command  in  Washington,  D.C.  He  and  his 
wife  Katherine  have  four  children  and  live  in 
Woodbridge,  Va. 

William  Winters,  who  recently  received 
his  master's  in  engineering  from  Cornell,  is 
with  the  U.S.  Geological  Survey  in  Menlo 

Park,  Calif Currently,  Mohammed 

Younes  works  for  Sonelec  of  Algeria. 


1980 


30  /  Spring  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


►  Married:  Amos  F.  Barnes  PVand  Judith  G. 
Barrett  on  November  29,  1980  in  Branford, 
Connecticut.  The  bride  attended  Eastern  Con- 
necticut State  College  and  was  employed  at 
the  Connecticut  Savings  Bank.  The  groom  is 
employed  at  WPI  under  a  National  Science 
Foundation  Research  Grant  while  pursuing  his 

master's  degree  in  civil  engineering 

John  S.  Cybulski  and  Carole  J.  Potts  in 
Schenectady,  New  York  on  December  13, 
1980.  The  bride  graduated  from  Becker.  Her 
husband  is  employed  in  the  manufacturing 
and  management  program  at  GE,  Schenec- 
tady  Thomas  A.  Daniels  and  Jean  M. 

Martin,  '81,  recently  in  Hingham,  Massachu- 
setts. The  Rev.  Roger  Borden,  a  WPI  professor, 
performed  the  ceremony.  The  bridegroom 
works  for  Babcock  &  Wilcox  Co.,  Lynchburg, 

Va Mark  W.  DiLuglio  to  Paula 

Dolyak  on  February  14,  1981  in  Greenville, 
Rhode  Island.  Mrs.  DiLuglio  graduated  from 

Rhode  Island  College James  J. 

Feenan,  Jr.  and  Patricia  J.  Curry  in  Hamilton, 
Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Feenan,  an  emergency 
nurse  at  Fallon  Clinic,  Worcester,  graduated 
from  Essex  Agricultural  and  Technical 
Institute.  Her  husband  is  with  Coppus 
Engineering. 

Anne  M.  Haselton  and  Robert  Kuklinski, 
'81,  in  Lynnfield,  Massachusetts.  They  are  re- 
siding in  Manchester,  N.H Anthony 

A.  Masullo  and  Anne  E.  Weber  in  Yardley, 
Pennsylvania  on  October  11,  1980.  The  bride 
attended  Becker  and  is  employed  at  Kaplan's 
Travel  Bureau,  Norwich,  Conn.  The  bride- 
groom works  for  Pfizer  Chemical  Company, 
Groton. 


Brownell  Bailey  works  as  a  project  man- 
ager for  an  engineering  firm  in  Dillon,  Colo- 
rado. "Living  in  Breckinridge.  Love  it  here!" 
....  Douglas  Beller  serves  as  a  member  of 
the  technical  staff  at  Hughes  Aircraft  in 
Culver  City,  Calif. 

Godwin  Benson  is  now  a  senior  lecturer 
in  the  Kaduna  Polytechnic  Mechanical  De- 
partment, Kaduna,  Nigeria.  He  serves  as  a  Ni- 
gerian soccer  referee Roger  Busico  is 

a  member  of  the  technical  staff  and  an  electri- 
cal design  engineer  at  Bell  Telephone  Labora- 
tories in  Whippany,  N.J. 

John  Cermenaro  holds  the  post  of  product 
development  engineer  at  CBS  Musical  Instru- 
ments in  Fullerton,  Calif Frank  De 

Bonis  is  presently  a  management  trainee  at 
U.S.  Steel  Corporation,  Texas  works,  in  Bay- 
town,  Texas David  Drevinsky  works 

as  an  environmental  engineer  with  the  EPA, 
Boston.  He  goes  part-time  to  graduate  school 
and  belongs  to  several  chess  clubs,  including 
the  United  States  Chess  Federation. 

Paul  Filewich  is  employed  as  a  design  en- 
gineer at  Harris  Corp.,  Westerly,  R.I 

David  Fox  is  a  technical  support  specialist  at 

Digital  in  Merrimack,  N.H John 

Goodwin  is  employed  as  a  programmer- 
analyst  at  Arthur  Andersen  &  Co.,  Boston. 
....  Gary  Graf  is  with  Sanders  Associates 
in  Nashua,  N.H. 

William  Guilfoile,  Jr.  serves  as  an  electri- 
cal project  engineer  at  Anaconda  Industries, 

American  Brass,  in  Ansonia,  Conn 

Jeffrey  Ironfield  now  works  as  a  consulting  en- 
gineer for  EDS  Nuclear,  Inc.,  Melville,  N.Y. 
....  Thaddeus  Kielar  is  presently  a 
research  associate  at  International  Energy  As- 
sociates, Ltd.  in  Washington,  D.C 

David  Lesser  serves  as  a  product  engineer  at 
Western  Electric  in  Reading,  Pa. 

Karen  Liukkonen  is  a  student  in  the  mba 
program  at  Babson  College,  and  lives  in 

Needham,  Mass Silvia  Matamoros 

Loud  is  employed  as  a  design  engineer  at 
T.R.W.  Vidar,  Melbourne,  Fla. 

Jon  Marshall  currently  serves  as  an  asso- 
ciate engineer  at  NBI,  Inc.,  in  Boulder,  Colo- 
rado. The  company  manufactures  word 

processing  systems Linda  Mclnnis  is 

a  hardware  technical  writer  for  Computer- 
vision  of  Bedford,  Mass. 

John  Milson  holds  the  post  of  administra- 
tor of  standards  and  documents  at  Interactive 

Data  Corp.,  Waltham,  Mass Richard 

Mongeau  is  in  the  manufacturing  manage- 
ment program  in  GE's  Reentry  Systems  Divi- 
sion, Philadelphia John  Nenninger  is 

a  mechanical  engineer  in  training  at  Heald 
Machine  Co.,  Worcester. 

Ian  Newman  works  as  a  project  engineer 

at  Sprague  Electric  in  Worcester 

Matthew  Powell  is  employed  as  a  hardware 
design  engineer  in  the  Strategic  Systems  Divi- 
sion at  GTE  Sylvania  in  Needham  Heights, 

Mass Marc  Provencal  has  joined 

TRW  Corp.,  Redondo  Beach,  Calif. 


John  Putis  works  as  a  marketing  engineer 

at  Western  Electric Bruce  Richmond 

works  for  GE  in  Utica,  N.Y Matthew 

Rubano  is  an  associate  engineer  at  Northeast 

Utilities  in  Hartford,  Conn Mark 

Senior  is  a  process  engineer  at  Badger  America, 

Inc.,  Tampa,  Fla Peter  Sherer  has 

been  named  a  control  products  design 
engineer  at  Texas  Instruments  in  Attleboro, 
Mass. 

Carlos  Smith  serves  as  a  programmer  at 
Computervision  Corp.,  Bedford,  Mass. 
....  Joseph  Sotak  has  joined  Western  Elec- 
tric in  Kearny,  N.J Christian  Tasche 

is  with  Boeing  Commercial  Airplane,  Seattle. 
....  George  Tobin,  Jr.,  serves  as  a  supply 
management  intern  for  the  U.S.  Army  in  Tex- 
arkana,  Texas.  In  March,  he  was  scheduled  to 
be  transferred  to  the  Army  Command  in  Ft. 
Monmouth,  N.J.  He  is  working  for  his  mba. 

Geoff  Ward  is  a  microcircuit  fabrication 
engineer  in  the  quality  department  at  Analog 
Devices  Semiconductor,  Wilmington,  Mass. 
....  Richard  Whalen  is  employed  as  a  soft- 
ware engineer  by  Digital  in  Maynard,  Mass. 


Natural  Science 
Program 

A.  Thomas  Shirley,  72,  was  recently  named  a 
teacher  of  physics  at  Dover  High  School,  Do- 
ver, N.H.  Formerly  he  taught  in  Hampton.  He 
holds  a  bs  from  Plymouth  State  College. 

Robert  Kolesnik,  78,  teaches  physics  at 
Bartlett  High  School,  Webster,  Mass. 
Richard  Simmons,  70,  is  presently  head  of  the 
biology  department  of  a  high  school  in  New 
Zealand.  He  attended  Bridgewater  State  Col- 
lege and  graduated  from  Boston  University.  He 
and  his  family  reside  in  Palmerston  North, 
New  Zealand,  a  city  of  60,000  which  is  consid- 
ered to  be  an  educational  center. 

►  Married:  Anthony  V.  Messa,  79,  and 
Ann  Mary  Manning  on  December  19,  1980  in 
Manchester,  New  Hampshire.  The  bride,  who 
graduated  from  Mount  St.  Mary  College,  is 
employed  in  the  English  department  at  Man- 
chester Memorial  High  School.  Her  husband 
is  with  the  science  department  at  the  same 
school. 


School  of 
Industrial 

Management 

Formerly  with  Sentry  Co.,  Foxboro,  Mass., 
Charles  Gelette,  Jr.,  '54,  is  now  retired  and  re- 
siding in  Taunton,  Mass. 

For  the  last  12  years,  Albert  Ormondroyd, 
'55,  has  had  his  own  business  in  Maine.  Cur- 
rently, he  is  retired  in  Whitinsville,  Mass. 

Nicholas  Moffa,  '56,  has  been  elected 
chairman  of  the  board  of  the  Grinding  Wheel 
Institute,  which  is  an  association  of  U.S.  man- 
ufacturers of  grinding  wheels.  Moffa  is  presi- 
dent of  Bay  State  Abrasives,  Westboro,  Mass. 

Leonard  Krasnow,  '57,  serves  as  vice 
president  of  engineering  at  Berlyn  Corp., 
Worcester. 

Clifford  Pontbriand,  '58,  writes  that 
he  is  now  manager  of  frame  manufacturing  for 
Pennsylvania  Optical  Company  in 
Reading,  Pa. 


Schwieger  Award 

to  Henning  Frederiksen 


Paul  Flynn,  '66,  is  plant  superintendent 
in  Burlington,  N.C.  for  Crompton  &  Knowles 
Corp. 

Recently,  Robert  Rowse,  '66,  was  ap- 
pointed divisional  vice  president  and  general 
manager  for  proppants  at  Norton  Co.,  Worces- 
ter. He  continues  as  division  vice  president  for 
research  and  new  business  development. 

Gerard  LaFleche,  Jr.,  '77,  has  been  pro- 
moted to  manager  of  inventory  planning,  oph- 
thalmic instruments,  for  the  Instrument 
Division  at  American  Optical  Corp., 
Southbridge,  Mass.  He  has  had  15  years  expe- 
rience at  AO  in  distribution,  customer  service, 
and  inventory  planning.  In  his  new  post,  he  is 
responsible  for  coordinating  factory 
scheduling  for  the  firm's  Buffalo,  Rochester 
and  Southbridge  plants.  He  graduated  horn 
Nichols  College. 


Henning  Frederiksen,  sim  '63,  re- 
cently received  the  Albert  J.  Schwie- 
ger award  for  outstanding 
achievement  at  the  School  of  Indus- 
trial Management's  32nd  midyear 
banquet  at  the  Wachusett  Country 
Club. 

Frederiksen  is  president  and 
treasurer  of  the  Plainville  (Mass.) 
Machine  Works  Co.,  which  he 
founded  in  1961.  He  also  organized 
the  Plainville  Products  Group  in 
1973  and  the  Plainville  Hydraulics 
Corp.  in  1975. 


A  native  of  Argentina,  he  at- 
tended Norfolk  public  schools  and 
Boston  Trade  School.  During  World 
War  II,  he  was  with  the  U.S.  Army. 
From  1951  to  1953,  he  was  a  master 
sergeant  in  the  Air  Force. 

The  Schwieger  Award  is  named 
for  the  first  director  of  WPI's  School 
of  Industrial  Management.  The 
school  offers  a  four-year  course  de- 
signed for  middle  management  per- 
sonnel from  area  industry. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Spring  1981/31 


Bonnie-Blanche  Robinson  Schoonover,  the 

first  librarian  emeritus  of  WPI,  died  in  Worces- 
ter on  February  9,  1981. 

Before  retiring  in  1964,  she  was  head  li- 
brarian at  WPI  for  over  22  years.  Earlier,  she 
had  been  night  librarian  at  Radcliffe  College. 

She  was  born  on  Nov.  15,  1893  in  Ponca, 
Nebraska.  In  1915,  she  graduated  from 
Momingside  College,  Sioux  City,  Iowa.  Later, 
she  received  her  ma  in  English  at  Radcliffe,  and 
then  studied  for  her  pIid. 

While  taking  graduate  courses  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Chicago,  she  did  volunteer  social 
work  with  teenagers  at  the  famed  Jane  Ad- 
dams  Hull  House.  She  worked  tirelessly  after 
World  War  I  for  the  passage  of  the  Nineteenth 
Amendment.  "I  even  spent  a  night  in  jail  pro- 
testing for  the  right  of  women  to  vote,"  she 
once  admitted. 

During  World  War  EI,  her  husband,  Lynn 
Schoonover,  was  named  assistant  professor  at 
WPI.  Before  his  death  in  1973,  he  became  act- 
ing head  of  the  economics  department  at  WPI. 
Also,  he  was  head  of  the  department  of  finance 
at  Northeastern  and  a  lecturer  at  Becker. 

When  Prof.  Schoonover  first  came  to 
WPI,  his  wife  was  offered  the  post  of  librarian, 
a  position  she  held  until  her  retirement  in 
1964.  She  once  said  of  her  years  at  WPI,  "Boys 
and  books!  How  can  you  beat  that  for  a  living? 
And  God  never  made  any  finer  men  than 
engineers." 

Mrs.  Schoonover  belonged  to  the  Congre- 
gational Church,  and  was  a  former  Sunday 
school  teacher.  She  was  a  past  president  of  the 
Worcester  Woman's  Club  and  a  member  of  the 
Worcester  Ecumenical  Council.  A  book  re- 
viewer and  lecturer  for  many  years,  she  ap- 
peared in  the  1966  edition  of  Who's  Who  of 
American  Women.  A  scholarship  is  given  an- 
nually in  her  name  to  a  woman  student  at 
WPI. 

Jacob  L.  Mueller,  '13  of  Shrewsbury,  Pennsyl- 
vania, the  retired  owner  of  Mueller  Engineer- 
ing Co.,  died  on  June  23,  1980. 

In  1963,  after  more  than  41  years,  Mueller 
Engineering  closed  its  doors.  The  firm  did 
heating  and  air  conditioning  contracting. 

Mr.  Mueller  was  born  on  Mar.  7,  1889  in 
Austria.  In  1913,  he  graduated  as  a  mechanical 
engineer  from  WPI.  For  four  years,  he  did  grad- 
uate research  in  the  heat  treatment  of  low  car- 
bon steels.  During  that  time,  he  developed  a 
carburizing  compound,  designed  facilities  for 
its  manufacture,  and  served  as  a  specialist- 
consultant  to  New  England  manufacturers. 


In  World  War  I,  he  was  plant  manager  and 
chief  engineer  for  the  American  Chain  &  Ca- 
ble Co.  While  with  the  company,  he  designed 
and  supervised  the  construction  of  special  me- 
chanized carburization  furnaces  which  ob- 
tained better  results  of  speed  and  depth 
penetration  than  by  previous  methods. 

A  professional  engineer,  Mr.  Mueller  was 
a  pioneer  in  the  development  of  automatic 
heat  for  home  and  industry  until  his  retire- 
ment in  1962.  He  belonged  to  the  Engineering 
Society  of  York  (Pa.),  the  Lions  Club,  and  Ex- 
ecutives Club,  which  he  had  served  as  presi- 
dent. He  was  a  life  member  of  the  state  and 
national  Society  of  Professional  Engineers. 

Oliver  W.  Cook,  '15,  died  unexpectedly  at  his 
home  in  Bridgton,  Maine  on  February  9,  1981. 

A  native  of  Warren,  R.I.,  he  was  born  on 
Aug.  6,  1891.  He  attended  WPI  and  Clark.  For 
many  years,  he  served  as  a  self-employed  me- 
chanic in  Maine  until  his  retirement.  Wood- 
working and  stamp  collecting  were  among  his 
lifetime  hobbies. 

He  was  a  veteran  of  World  War  I.  When 
the  Clark  University  Ambulance  Unit  was 
formed,  he  joined  it,  and  spent  the  duration  of 
the  war  in  France  driving  heavy  supply  trucks. 

Wellen  H.  Colburn,  '16,  a  long-time  employee 
of  the  Boston  Edison  Company,  died  on  Janu- 
ary 21,  1981  in  Ayer,  Massachusetts.  He 
was  86. 

In  1916,  he  received  his  bsee  from  WPI, 
and  in  1917,  his  professional  degree.  Following 
his  graduation  from  WPI,  he  joined  Bay  State 
Street  Railway  in  Boston.  Other  employers 
were  Bethlehem  Shipbuilding  Co.  in  Quincy 
and  Thomson  Electric  Welding  Co.,  Lynn.  In 
1920,  he  became  affiliated  with  Boston  Edi- 
son, retiring  in  1960.  From  1955  until  1962,  he 
was  an  instructor  at  Northeastern  University 
in  Boston.  Following  his  retirement,  he  be- 
came a  self-employed  consulting  engineer. 

Mr.  Colburn,  who  belonged  to  Tau  Beta  Pi 
and  Sigma  Xi,  was  also  a  member  of  the  ieee, 
the  Masons,  and  the  United  Church  of  Shirley, 
Mass.  He  served  as  chairman  of  the  Shirley 
Red  Cross  Bloodmobile.  He  was  a  past  presi- 
dent of  the  Boston  chapter  of  the  WPI  Alumni 
Association  and  a  past  member  of  the  Alumni 
Council.  A  native  of  Worcester,  he  was  born 
on  Dec.  1,  1894. 

Harold  G.  Saunders,  '16,  the  former  vice  presi- 
dent in  charge  of  sales  and  engineering  at  Air- 
serco  Mfg.  Co.,  Pittsburgh,  Pennsylvania,  died 
recently. 

He  was  born  on  July  4,  1894  in  Provi- 
dence, R.I.  After  graduating  as  a  mechanical 
engineer  in  1916,  he  worked  for  New  England 
Westinghouse  in  Chicopee  Falls,  Mass.  During 
World  War  I,  he  was  with  the  U.S.  Army  in 
France  serving  as  a  bombardier  and  instructor. 
From  1919  until  1959,  he  was  with  Kinney 
Vacuum,  Boston,  where  he  rose  to  sales  man- 
ager. After  his  retirement  from  Kinney,  he 
went  with  Airserco.  He  belonged  to  Theta 
Chi. 


Clifford  C.  Whiting,  '17,  passed  away  recently. 

For  many  years,  he  was  a  self-employed 
manufacturing  jeweler  in  Chicago,  111.  A 
member  of  the  class  of  1917,  he  belonged  to 
Phi  Gamma  Delta. 

Arthur  M.  Millard,  '18,  a  retired  transmission 
engineer  from  the  Southern  New  England 
Telephone  Company,  died  in  New  London, 
Connecticut  on  November  20,  1980.  He 
was  87. 

Mr.  Millard  was  employed  by  the  New 
Haven  office  of  SNET  for  over  40  years.  In 
1959,  he  retired. 

He  was  born  on  Jan.  16,  1894  in  Hartford, 
Conn.  After  graduating  as  an  electrical  engi- 
neer in  1918,  he  joined  Southern  New  England 
Telephone.  A  member  of  aiee,  the  Baptist 
Church,  the  Graduate  Club  in  New  Haven, 
and  the  Telephone  Pioneers  of  America,  Mr. 
Millard  also  belonged  to  the  New  Haven 
Country  Club.  He  was  a  50-year  member  of 
the  Masons.  His  brother,  Fred  Millard,  gradu- 
ated from  WPI  in  1922. 

Maurice  W.  Richardson,  '18,  died  in  Saratoga 
Springs,  New  York  on  December  20,  1980  at 
the  age  of  84. 

Prior  to  joining  Mohasco  Industries  in 
Amsterdam,  N.Y.  in  1923,  he  worked  for  R. 
Wallace  and  Sons  Mfg  Co.,  Wallingford, 
Conn.;  John  A.  Stevens  Consulting  Engineers, 
Lowell,  Mass.;  and  the  Naval  Experimental 
Station  in  New  London,  Conn.  For  twenty 
years,  he  held  the  post  of  manager  of  the  engi- 
neering department  at  Mohasco,  formerly 
Mohawk  Carpet  Mills.  He  retired  from  the 
company  in  1961. 

Civic-minded,  he  was  past  executive  di- 
rector of  the  United  Way  of  Montgomery 
County  and  a  member  of  the  Amsterdam 
Planning  Board.  He  was  a  trustee  of  the 
Methodist  Church,  the  Amsterdam  Memorial 
Hospital,  and  the  Sanford  Home  for  Women. 
For  over  10  years,  he  was  a  member  of  the  ad- 
visory council  for  the  General  Electric  sta- 
tions, WGY  and  WRGB. 

Mr.  Richardson  graduated  from  WPI  as  an 
electrical  engineer.  He  belonged  to  Skull, 
Theta  Chi,  and  had  been  executive  director  of 
the  Amsterdam  Community  Chest.  He  was  a 
licensed  professional  engineer  in  New  York 
State.  During  World  War  I,  he  was  a  chief  elec- 
trician in  the  U.S.  Navy.  He  was  born  on  June 
10,  1896  in  Leomnister,  Mass. 

Watson  H.  Whitney,  '19,  died  in  Plymouth, 
Massachusetts  on  November  23,  1980  at  the 
age  of  83. 

Following  his  graduation  as  a  mechanical 
engineer,  he  joined  Shepard  Electric  Crane  and 
later,  New  Home  Sewing  Machine  Co.  From 
1923  to  1958,  when  he  retired,  he  was  with 
GE  in  Lynn,  Mass.  He  worked  as  a  specialist 
in  wage  rates  and  union  relations. 

A  native  of  Orange,  Mass.,  he  was  born 
on  Nov.  19,  1897.  He  belonged  to  Tau  Beta  Pi, 
the  Congregational  Chinch,  the  local  senior 
citizens'  club,  the  Cracker  Barrel  Club,  and 
Retired  Men's  Club.  He  was  a  50-year  Mason. 


32  /  Spring  1981  /  The  WPI  Journal 


Col.  Robert  W.  Horner,  '20,  U.S.  Army 
Retired,  died  in  Marietta,  Ohio  on  January  15, 
1981. 

A  career  army  officer,  Col.  Horner  served 
in  World  War  I  and  World  War  II,  retiring  from 
active  duty  in  1954.  For  twenty  years,  he  was 
with  Birmingham  Electric  Co.  in  Alabama. 
Later,  he  joined  Lockheed  Aircraft,  Marietta, 
Ga.  After  retirement,  he  became  a  tax  exam- 
iner for  the  Internal  Revenue  Service. 

Col.  Horner  was  born  in  Hartford,  Conn, 
on  Nov.  5,  1895,  and  was  a  member  of  the 
Class  of  1920.  He  belonged  to  the  Masons  and 
the  Baptist  Church.  A  past  president  of  the 
AARP  No.  764,  he  also  belonged  to  the  Na- 
tional Association  of  Retired  Federal  Em- 
ployees. 

Richard  B.  Swallow,  '23,  a  46-year  employee 
of  the  Public  Service  Electric  and  Gas  Co.  in 
Newark,  N.J.,  died  in  Rumford,  Maine  on  De- 
cember 22,  1980.  He  was  80  years  old. 

Bom  on  July  14,  1900  in  Manchester, 
N.H.,  he  subsequently  became  a  student  at 
WPI.  In  1923,  he  graduated  with  his  bsee.  Dur- 
ing his  long  employment  with  Public  Service 
Electric  and  Gas  Co.,  he  served  as  a  meter  and 
wiring  engineer.  He  retired  in  1970.  He  was  a 
member  of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa  and  the  Elks. 

Solon  C.  Bartlett,  '24,  died  at  his  home  in 
Ridgewood,  New  Jersey  on  February  18,  1981. 
He  was  79. 

After  receiving  his  bsee  from  WPI,  he 
joined  Edison  Electric  Institute  as  a  coordina- 
tion engineer.  For  four  years  he  was  a  research 
engineer  at  Ford  Instrument  Co.  From  1937  to 
1966,  he  was  with  American  Electric  Power 
Co.,  New  York  City,  where  he  retired  as  elec- 
trical engineer  in  charge  of  communications. 

Mr.  Bartlett  held  first  class  commercial 
and  amateur  radio  licenses  and  was  a  past 
president  of  Hobbyists  Unlimited  of  Ridge- 
wood and  of  the  New  York  Chapter  of  the 
Alumni  Association.  In  1973-1974,  he  was 
a  member  of  the  President's  Advisory  Coun- 
cil at  WPI.  He  also  belonged  to  the  ieee  and 
cigre.  He  was  bom  on  Aug.  28,  1901  in  Wash- 
ington, DC. 

Raymond  G.  Wilcox,  '24,  retired  general  su- 
pervisor of  lines  at  Western  Union  Telegraph 
Co.,  New  York  City,  passed  away  on  January 
18,  1981  in  West  wood,  New  Jersey. 

Following  his  graduation  as  a  civil  engi- 
neer from  WPI,  he  began  work  at  Western 
Union.  He  started  as  a  plant  inspector  and  was 
promoted  to  construction  supervisor,  then  di- 
visional supervisor  of  lines.  From  1962  until 
1967  he  was  general  supervisor  of  lines. 

Mr.  Wilcox  was  born  on  Jan.  25,  1902  in 
Griswold,  Conn.  He  was  an  active  participant 
in  the  Baha'i  faith  and  served  as  a  member  of 
various  Baha'i  committees  and  as  a  teacher 
and  public  speaker.  He  belonged  to  SAE  and 
Skull. 


Gordon  F.  Howes,  '26,  of  Pelham,  New  York 
died  on  April  27,  1980. 

He  was  born  on  July  27,  1904  in  Holyoke, 
Mass.  In  1926,  he  graduated  from  WPI  as  an 
electrical  engineer.  He  joined  the  New  York 
Telephone  Co.  following  graduation,  and  re- 
tired in  1969.  While  with  the  company,  he 
served  as  a  traffic  engineer,  equipment  engi- 
neer, and  methods  engineer.  He  was  a  member 
of  Lambda  Chi  Alpha  and  Tau  Beta  Pi. 

Harry  C.  Peinert,  '26,  formerly  a  production 
manager  for  du  Pont,  died  after  a  long  illness 
in  Wilmington,  Delaware  on  February  5,  1981. 
He  was  75. 

A  native  of  Clinton,  Mass.,  he  was  bom 
on  June  19,  1905.  In  1926,  he  received  his  bs  in 
chemistry  from  WPI.  He  joined  du  Pont  after 
graduation,  and  retired  in  1966  following  a  40- 
year  career  in  the  explosives  department  man- 
ufacturing operations. 

While  with  du  Pont,  he  served  as  chief 
chemist  at  the  company  works  in  Birming- 
ham, Alabama,-  assistant  plant  manager  at  the 
Seneca,  111.  works;  and  as  production  manager 
of  the  company's  explosives  department  in 
Wilmington.  He  was  a  member  of  Tau  Beta  Pi 
and  Sigma  Xi. 

Cecil  R.  Furminger,  '27,  of  Appleton,  Wiscon- 
sin died  on  November  1,  1980. 

He  was  bom  on  Aug.  26,  1902  in  Mitte- 
neague,  Mass.,  and  was  a  member  of  the  class 
of  1927.  During  his  career,  he  worked  for  Terry 
Steam  Turbine,  Orbison  &  Orbison,  Appleton 
Machine  Co.  (vice  president),  and  Gilbert  & 
Nash  Co.  (assistant  manager).  He  was  a  32nd 
degree  Mason  and  Shriner. 

For  eleven  years,  he  served  on  the  board  of 
Appleton  Memorial  Hospital.  He  belonged  to 
the  Salvation  Army  advisory  board. 

David  G.  Cormier,  '28,  recently  died  in  Web- 
ster, Massachusetts. 

For  many  years,  he  was  with  the  Massa- 
chusetts Electric  Co.,  Worcester,  from  which 
he  retired  in  1967.  For  a  time,  he  was  chief 
engineer. 

He  was  born  on  Dec.  17,  1901  in  Somers- 
worth,  N.H.,  and  later  became  a  member  of 
the  class  of  1928.  He  belonged  to  sae. 

Harold  G.  Richards,  '29,  a  40-year  employee  of 
Industrial  Risk  Insurers,  passed  away  at  his 
home  in  West  Hartford,  Connecticut  on  Janu- 
ary 4,  1981  at  the  age  of  73. 

A  native  of  Stamford,  Conn.,  he  was  born 
on  Nov.  27,  1907,  and  later  became  an  electri- 
cal engineering  student  at  WPI.  He  was  a 
member  of  Lambda  Chi  Alpha.  He  joined  the 
Factory  Insurance  Association  (now  Industrial 
Risk  Insurers)  in  1929  as  an  inspector.  Other 
posts  were  with  Liberty  Mutual  Insurance  Co. 
and  Western  Sprinkled  Risk  Association, 
where  he  was  a  special  agent.  He  retired  in 
1972  from  ERI,  where  he  had  been  an  adminis- 
trative assistant. 

Mr.  Richards  belonged  to  the  local  Con- 
gregational Church  choir  for  31  years,  and  was 
associate  treasurer  for  13  years.  He  was  a  32nd 
degree  Mason,  a  past  president  of  the  Pioneers 
Club  of  F.I. A.,  and  an  honorary  member  of  the 
West  Hartford  Art  League. 


Charles  K.  Aldrich,  '31,  formerly  of  Buttzville, 
New  Jersey  died  recently. 

During  his  career,  he  worked  for  Interna- 
tional Nickel  Co.  of  Canada,  Ontario  Refining 
Co.,  and  American  Cyanamid  Co.,  Bound 
Brook,  N.J. 

He  was  bom  on  Feb.  29,  1908  in  Perth 
Amboy,  N.J.  Subsequently,  he  became  a  mem- 
ber of  the  class  of  1931.  He  belonged  to 
Lambda  Chi  Alpha. 

John  J.  Molloy,  Jr.,  '33,  formerly  the  president 
of  Construction  Management  Corp.  of  New 
York  City,  died  on  December  27,  1980  in  Glen 
Ridge,  New  Jersey. 

A  native  of  Hartford,  Conn.,  he  was  bom 
on  Sept.  19,  191 1 .  In  1933,  he  received  his  bsce 
from  WPI.  During  his  lifetime,  he  was  with 
the  Bureau  of  Public  Works  in  Hartford;  the 
Connecticut  Aviation  Commission,  and  Ray- 
mond Concrete  Pile  Co.,  where  he  was  con- 
struction superintendent.  At  the  time  of  his 
death,  he  was  employed  by  Page  Communi- 
cations, Inc.,  in  Virginia.  He  traveled  exten- 
sively throughout  the  world  during  his  career. 

Mr.  Molloy  belonged  to  ato  and  Skull.  He 
was  a  Navy  veteran  of  World  War  n,  serving  as 
an  officer  with  the  Seabees.  A  member  of  the 
Connecticut  Society  of  Civil  Engineers,  he 
also  belonged  to  the  Society  of  American  Mili- 
tary Engineers. 

Maxwell  E.  Marshall,  '37,  recently  passed 
away  in  Sarasota,  Florida. 

He  was  bom  on  June  5,  1915  in  Holyoke, 
Mass.,  and  graduated  as  a  mechanical  engineer 
from  WPI  in  1937.  During  World  War  H,  he 
served  as  a  lieutenant  commander  in  the  U.S. 
Navy.  For  many  years,  he  was  with  Long  Is- 
land Lighting  Co.,  retiring  as  manager  of  me- 
chanical and  civil  engineering  in  1976. 

Mr.  Marshall  belonged  to  aep,  the  Ma- 
sons, and  the  Edison  Electric  Institute. 

Col  Irving  T.  McDonald,  Jr.,  USAF  (Ret.), 
'46,  died  in  New  Smyrna  Beach,  Florida  on 
October  2,  1980. 

He  was  born  on  Dec.  23,  1925  in  Spring- 
field, Mass.  He  was  in  the  Navy  V-12  class  of 
1946,  and  left  WPI  in  his  junior  year  to  enter 
the  U.S.  Naval  Academy.  In  1949,  he  gradu- 
ated and  was  subsequently  commissioned  a 
second  lieutenant  in  the  Air  Force.  In  1953,  he 
received  a  master's  degree  in  engineering  from 
Purdue  University  and  did  postgraduade  work 
at  the  University  of  Michigan.  He  belonged  to 

EKN. 

At  the  time  of  his  retirement  in  1973,  he 
was  chief  of  the  policy  and  plans  division  for 
Air  Force  Intelligence  in  Washington.  After 
moving  to  Florida,  he  was  appointed  manager 
of  the  Deltona  office  of  the  First  Federal  Sav- 
ings and  Loan  Association,  Daytona  Beach, 
Fla. 

During  his  career,  he  had  many  interest- 
ing tours  of  duty.  One  of  the  most  memorable 
was  a  17-month  tour  as  assistant  air  attache  in 
Moscow,  when  he  traveled  extensively 
throughout  the  U.S.S.R. 

"Mac"  rose  to  the  rank  of  colonel  during 
his  last  assignment  in  the  Pentagon,  before  re- 
tiring and  moving  to  Florida. 


The  WPI  Journal  /  Spring  1981  /  33 


DIANA  J  JOHNSON 
9  WETHERELL  ST 
WORCESTER  MA 


